V!  y^SLr*-  y fiiiJ 

• •.  ''.xsgdSx'l 

G<; JAM 


CYCLOPAEDIA 

OP 

BIBLICAL, 

THEOLOG-ICAL,  AND  ECCLESIASTICAL 
LITERATURE. 

PREPARED  BY 

THE  REV.  JOHN  M'CLINTOCK,  D.D., 

AND 

JAMES  STRONG,  S.T.D. 

Vol.  IV.— H,  I,  J. 

Private  library 

felCHARD  C.  HALVERSON 

NEW  YORK: 

HARPER  & BROTHERS,  PUBLISHERS, 


FRANKLIN  SQUARE. 
18  8 2. 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1871,  by 
HARPER  & BROTHERS, 

In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington, 


Jlitmnrial. 


In  sending  out  this  volume,  it  becomes  my  sad  duty,  as  co-editor,  to  pay  a 
tribute  of  affection  and  respect  to  the  memory  of  the  late  editor-in-chief,  Dr. 
John  M‘Clintock,  who  rested  from  his  earthly  labors  while  these  pages  were 
still  in  preparation  for  the  press.  As  an  accomplished  scholar,  an  eloquent 
speaker,  a clear  writer,  an  able  divine,  a skilful  educator,  a consummate  critic, 
an  ardent  patriot,  a genial  friend,  and  a devout  Christian,  his  loss  is  deeply  felt, 
not  only  in  private  association  and  ministerial  and  literary  circles,  but  in  the 
community  at  large. 

Dr.  M‘Clintock’s  life  was  one  of  extraordinary  activity  and  usefulness.  He 
graduated  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  in  1835,  at  the  age  of  twenty-one, 
and  entered  the  Methodist  ministry  as  a member  of  the  New  Jersey  Conference. 
A short  time  afterward  he  was  elected  Professor  of  Mathematics  in  Dickinson 
College,  at  Carlisle,  Pa.,  and  was  soon  transferred  to  the  chair  of  ancient  lan- 
guages, which  he  filled  for  nearly  ten  years.  During  this  period  he  was  en- 
gaged, with  Professor  Blumenthal,  in  the  translation  of  Neander’s  “Life  of 
Christ;”  and  commenced,  in  company  with  Professor  Crooks,  the  preparation 
of  a series  of  elementary  Greek  and  Latin  class-books,  which  still  maintain  a 
deserved  popularity  in  our  schools  and  colleges. 

In  1848  he  was  chosen  editor  of  the  Methodist  Quarterly  Review , and  held 
that  office  until  1856,  when  he  went  abroad  as  a delegate  to  represent  the  Meth- 
odist Episcopal  Church  in  the  English,  Irish,  French,  and  German  Conferences. 
On  his  return  he  was  elected  President  of  the  Troy  University,  then  recently 
founded,  and,  pending  the  organization  of  the  college  classes,  assumed  the  pas- 
toral charge  of  St.  Paul’s  Church,  in  New  York.  In  the  summer  of  i860  he  be- 
came pastor  of  the  American  Chapel  established  at  Paris  under  the  auspices  of 
the  American  and  Foreign  Christian  Union.  In  1866  he  was  appointed  chair- 
man of  the  general  Centenary  Committee  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church. 
In  1867  he  organized  the  Drew  Theological  Seminary,  as  president,  a position 
which  he  retained  till  the  time  of  his  death,  March  4,  1870. 

The  closing  years  of  his  life  were  occupied  in  the  preparation  of  the  present 
“ Cyclopaedia  of  Biblical,  Theological,  and  Ecclesiastical  Literature,”  a work  for 
which  he  was  peculiarly  fitted  by  a comprehensive  and  accurate  scholarship,  and 
a catholicity  of  judgment  which  enabled  him  to  survey  religious  questions  in  the 
broadest  light  of  Christian  liberality.  The  first  three  volumes  of  this  work  were 
prepared  and  published  under  his  immediate  supervision.  The  greater  part  of 
the  present  volume  also  received  the  benefit  of  his  labors  and  advice ; and  be- 
fore his  decease,  he  had  collected  and  partly  arranged  a large  amount  of  import- 
ant matter  for  the  succeeding  volumes.  J.  S. 


/ 

* S' 


/> 


PREFACE  TO  VOL.  IV. 


In  consequence  of  the  death  of  Dr.  M‘Clintock,  which  occurred  when  but  a small 
part  of  the  present  volume  was  in  type,  the  entire  editorial  responsibility  of  the  re- 
mainder of  the  work  has  devolved  upon  Dr.  Strong.  In  this  task,  however,  ho  has 
been  so  greatly  aided  by  the  preparations  and  memoranda  left  by  his  former  colleague, 
and  by  the  labors  of  the  able  assistants  and  contributors  named  below,  that  it  is  hoped 
the  reader  will  not  find  this  volume  inferior  in  completeness  or  accuracy  to  its  pred- 
ecessors. Professor  J.  II.  Worman,  whose  previous  connection  with  Dr.  M‘Clintock 
in  this  work  peculiarly  fitted  him  to  take  a part  in  its  completion,  has  devoted  his 
time,  since  the  death  of  the  late  senior  editor,  to  assisting  in  the  department  which 
that  event  left  to  be  supplemented.  Professor  A.  J.  Schem  has  continued  to  furnish 
the  articles  on  the  ecclesiastical  history  and  statistics  of  all  the  countries,  and  has 
rendered  valuable  assistance  in  other  respects.  The  same  plan  has  been  maintained 
in  this  as  in  the  preceding  volumes,  and  is  to  be  carried  out  in  the  remainder  of  the 
work,  which  will  be  issued  as  rapidly  as  the  mechanical  part  can  be  well  executed. 
The  impatience  of  the  public  for  the  speedy  appearance  of  the  successive  volumes, 
while  it  is  gratifying  as  showing  an  appreciative  demand,  might  nevertheless,  if  un- 
duly indulged,  injure  the  thoroughness  of  the  work,  wffiich  requires  for  its  completion 
an  amount  of  labor  that  can  be  properly  estimated  by  those  only  who  have  been  en- 
gaged in  some  like  undertaking. 

Throughout  this  work  it  has  been  the  aim  of  the  editors  to  incorporate  into  it  all 
the  suitable  matter  found  in  similar  works,  especially  in  the  great  recent  dictionaries 
edited  by  Aschbach,  Fairbairn,  Herzog,  Iloefer,  Kitto,  Smith,  Wetzer  und  Welte,  and 
Winer,  and  these  names  have  been  prefixed  or  appended  to  portions  so  cited.  If  this 
has  in  any  case  been  omitted,  it  has  been  by  oversight.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  due 
to  the  authors  of  those  works  to  state  that  the  matter  borrowed  from  them  has  rarely 
been  used  without  large  modifications  and  important  additions.  Full  one  half  of  the 
matter  in  this  Cyclopaedia  is  wholly  new,  and  much  of  the  rest  is  entirely  remodeled 
in  form  and  expression,  while  many  articles  contained  in  it  are  not  represented  in  any 
similar  work  hitherto  published. 

This  work  is  in  no  sense  denominational,  either  in  its  scope  or  in  its  execution. 
While  the  editors  and  their  collaborators  have  not  sought  to  conceal  their  personal 
opinions  in  any  respect,  they  have  never  obtruded  them  in  their  articles,  nor  allowed 
their  own  ecclesiastical  relations  or  dogmatic  views  to  interfere  writh  the  catholicity 
of  the  work.  This  Cyclopaedia  has  not  been  undertaken,  written,  or  published  in  the 
interest  of  any  sect  or  party.  Hence  the  contributors  have  been  selected  from  all 
branches  of  the  Church,  and  their  statements  have  been  left  untrammeled  by  sectarian 
dictation.  Their  names  thus  far,  which  are  subjoined  in  full,  are  a sufficient  guaranty 
in  this  regard.  Scarcely  more  than  one  third  of  the  entire  number  belong  to  the  same 
communion  with  the  editors  themselves. 


I 


Vi  PREFACE  TO.  V')L.  IV. 

V. ’.  J.  A.— 'Willi am  J.  Allinson,  editor  of  the  Friends'  Review,  Burlington,  N.  J. 

W.  W.  A.— The  Kev.  W.  W.  Andrews, Wethersfield,  Conn. 

J.  K.  Ik— The  Kev.  J.  K.  Burr,  A.3L,  Morristown,  N.  J. 

D.  c. — The  Kev.  Daniel  Curry,  D.D.,  editor  of  the  Christian  Advocate,  New  York. 

G.  I*’.  C.— IYufessor  George  F.  Comfort,  A.M.,  Syracuse  University,  N.  Y. 

T.  J.  C The  Kev.  Thomas  J.  Conant,  D.D.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

M.  J.  C.— The  Kev.  M.  J.  Cramer,  U.  S.  minister  to  Denmark. 

G.  K.  C.— The  Kev.  George  K.  Crooks,  D.D.,  editor  of  the  Methodist,  New  York. 

D.  D.— The  Kev.  Daniel  Devixne,  Morrisania,  New  York. 

K.  D.— The  Kev.  Kohert  Davidson,  D.D.,  Huntington,  L.  I. 

G.  B.  D.— Professor  G.  B.  Dociiakty,  LL.D.,  of  the  College  of  the  City  of  New  York. 

W.  G.  E. — The  Kev.  W.  G.  Easton,  of  the  British  and  Foreign  Evangelical  Review,  London. 

F.  W.  F. — The  Kev.  F.  W.  Flocken,  missionary  to  Bulgaria. 

E. V.  G. — Professor  E.Y.  Geriiart,  D.D.,  of  the  Mercersburgh  Theological  Seminary. 

J.  T.  G.— The  Rev.  J.  T.  Gbacey,  A.M.,  late  missionary  to  India. 

II.  G.— The  Kev.  Henry  Graham,  B.D.,  Lansingburgh,  N.  Y. 

II.  II. — The  late  President  II.  IIarbaugii,  D.D.,  of  the  Mercersburgh  Theological  Seminary. 

W.  E.  II. — W.  E.  Hathaway,  editor  of  the  Herald  of  Peace , Chicago,  111. 

W.  P.  II.— The  Rev.  W.  P.  Hayden,  Portland,  Me. 

K.  D.  II.— Professor  K.  D.  Hitchcock,  D.D.,  of  the  Union  Theological  Seminary. 

C.  1 1.— Professor  Charles  Hodge,  D.D.,  of  the  Princeton  Theological  Seminary. 

J.  II.— The  Kev.  Joseph  IIoldich,  D.D.,  Secretary  of  the  American  Bible  Society. 

G.  F.  II. — Professor  George  F.  Holmes,  LL.D.,  of  the  University  of  Virginia. 

J.  F.  II — Professor  John  F.  IIurst,  D.D.,  late  of  the  Martin  Mission  Institute,  Frankfort,  Germany 

R.  II. — The  Rev.  R.  Hutcheson,  Fairbank,  Iowa. 

M.  S.  I. — The  Kev.  M.  S.  Isaacs,  editor  of  The  Jewish  Messenger,  N.  Y.  City. 

J.  K.  J.— The  Kev.  J.  K.  Johnston,  of  Canada. 

O.  J. — Mr.  Oliver  Johnson,  late  of  The  Independent.  New  York. 

S.  M.  J.— Mr.  Samuel  31.  Janney,  Loudon  County,  Ya. 

D.  P.  K. — Professor  D.  P.  Kidder,  D.D.,  late  of  the  Garrett  Biblical  Institute,  Evanston,  111. 

J.  Ik  L — The  Kev.  J.  B.  Logan,  editor  of  the  Western  Cumberland  Presbyterian,  Alton,  111. 

J.  W.  31 — Professor  J.  W.  Marshall,  A.M.,  late  of  Dickinson  College. 

T.  V.  31.— The  Rev.  T.  Y.  3Ioore,  D.D.,  Nashville,  Tenn.  t 

Ik  II.  N. — The  late  Professor  B.  II.  Nadal,  D.D.,  of  the  Drew  Theological  Seminary. 

E.  A.  P. — Professor  E.  A.  Park,  D.D.,  of  the  Andover  Theological  Seminary. 

J.  N.  P.— 31r.  Jules  N.  Pkoesciiel,  Paris,  France. 

S.  II.  1\— 1 The  Kev.  S.  II.  Platt,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

W.  E.  P.— The  Kev.  W.  E.  Park,  D.D.,  Lawrence,  3Iass. 

W.  K.  P.— The  Kev.  W.  K.  Pendleton,  D.D.,  President  of  the  Bethany  College,  Virginia. 

W.  K.  P.— The  Kev.  W.  K.  Powers,  Norfolk,  N.  Y. 

E.  de  P.— The  Rev.  E.  i»e  Puy,  Sladison,  N.  J. 

A.  H.  Q.  The  Lev.  A.  II.  Quint,  D.D.,  editor  of  the  Congregational  Quarterly , Boston. 

II.  Ik  K.— The  Rev.  II.  B.  Kidgaway,  D.D.,  New  York. 

A.  S.— The  Kev.  Abel  Stevens,  LL.D.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

A.  J.  S.— Professor  Alexander  J.  Sen  km,  late  of  Dickinson  College. 

E.de  S.— The  Kev.  E.  de  Sciiweinitz,  editor  of  The  Moravian,  Bethlehem,  Pa. 

L.  E.  S.— Professor  L.  E.  Smith,  of  the  Examiner  and  Chronicle , New  York. 

31.  U S.— The  late  Professor  31.  L.  Stoever,  D.D.,  of  Pennsylvania  College. 

P.  S.  Professor  Philip  Sciiaff,  D.D.,  of  the  Union  Theological  Seminarv. 

<’.  C.  T — The  Kev.  C.  C.  Tiffany,  A.3I.,  Fordham,  N.  Y. 

< 1.  L.  T — The  Kev.  George  L.  Taylor,  A.3I.,  Hempstead,  L.  I. 

^ *7ThC  Kev*  " * J-  K*  Tavi  o,{’  IU)->  late  Secretary  of  the  American  Bible  Society. 

3. ' •— Tlie  Kev.  N.  Vansant,  Newton,  N.  J. 

C.  P.  W. — The.  Kev.  C.  P.  Wing,  D.D.,  Carlisle,  Pa. 

II.  C.  W.— The  Kev.  II.  C.  Westwood.  D.D.,  Princeton,  N.  J. 

I M W.  The  Kev.  Isaac  M.  Wise,  D.D.,  editor  of  The  Israelite,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

t p\v'“,’r,,f;r0r  Woi{MAN’  A-M-  U{™'™  of  the  Drew  Theological  Seminary. 

J.  I . \\  .—1  he  Kev.  .1.  P.  \Y  estkrvei.t,  Paterson,  N.  J.  J 

31.  J.  W — The  Kev.  31.  ,J.  Wylie,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

T.  D.  W._ President  Theodore  I).  Woolskv,  D.D.,  of  Yale  College. 

W F.  W.  Professor  W.  F.  Warren,  D.D.,  of  the  Boston  Theological  Seminarv. 

' *_1  hc  Rcv- ll'  Y KAKLL’  Secretary  of  the  Sabbath-school  and  Tract  Association,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 


LIST  OF  WOOD-CUTS  IN  VOL,  IV. 


Ancient  Egypt.  Linen  Corslet,  Page 
Egyptian  Manner  of  wearing  the 

Ancient  Egypt.  Female  Head-dress 
Assyrian  Manner  of  wearing  the 

Hair 

Grecian  Manner  of  wearing  the 

Hair 

Ancient  Egyptian  Ladies  with  Fil- 
lets   

Map  of  the  Vicinity  of  Hamath 

Ancient  Egyptian  Carpenters 

Tools  of  an  Egyptian  Carpenter.. 

Aucieut  Egyptian  Masons 

Ancient  Egyptian  Handmaids 

Prisoners  impaled  by  the  Assyrians 

Hare  of  Mount  Sinai 

Hare  of  Mount  Lebanon 

Ancient  Egyptiau  carrying  Hares. 

Modern  Egyptian  Lute 

Ancient  Egyptian  Lyres 

Various  Egyptian  Harps 

Various  Egyptian  Lyres 

Egyptian  Grand  Harps 

Assyrian  Lute  and  Harp 

Ancient  Assyrian  Lyre. 

Modern  Egyptian  Khonfud 

Cervus  Barbarus 

Egyptian  Harvest  Scene 

Peregrine  Falcon 

Falco  Sacer 

Amygdalus  Communis 

Skulls  of  different  Races 

Arabian  and  Turkish  Head-dresses 

Modern  Egyptian  Head-dress 

Various  Forms  of  the  Turban 

Bedouin  Head-dress 

Egyptian  regal  Head-dresses 

Ancient  Persian  Head-dresses 

Ancient  Assyrian  Head-dresses. . . 

The  Tantura 

Herse 

Modern  Egyptian  Asses 

Ancient  Helmets 176, 

Ancient  Egyptian  Axes 

Deformed  Egyptian  Ox-herd 

Ancient  Egyptian  Herdsmen 

Coin  of  Herod  the  Great 

Coin  of  Herod  Agrippa  II 

Little  Golden  Egret 

Golden  Plover 

Coin  of  Hierapolis 

The  Rosetta  Stone 

Hieroglyphic  Alphabet 

Assyrian  Picture  of  a Temple 

Representation  of  a “High-place” 

Priest’s  “Liuen  Breeches” 

Priest’s  “Broidered  Coat” 

Priest’s  Linen  Girdle 

High*priest’s  Robe 

High-priest’s  Breast-plate 

Jewish  Priestly  Turbau 245, 

Costume  of  High-priest 

Female  Deer 

Ancient  Egyptian  Hinges 

Hip  Roof 


4 Monk  of  St.  Hippolytus Page 

Chase  of  the  Hippopotamus 

23  Hippopotamus  Amphibius 

23  The  “Tomb  of  Hiram” 

Ancient  Hittites 

23  “ Holy  Coat”  of  Treves 

Canon  of  Order  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

23  Nun  of  the  Order  of  the  Holy  Ghost 

Holy  Water  Stone 

25  Ancient  Assyrian  Hook 

46  Hieroglyph  of  Hophra 

59  View  of  Mount  Hor 

60  Hair  of  South  Africans 

60  Heads  of  modern  Asiatics 

62  Assyrian  Horned  Caps 

63  Head  of  Alexander  the  Great 

72  Oriental  Horned  Ladies 

72  Ancient  Egyptian  Horse 

73  Ancient  Assyrian  Horse 

86  Ancient  Persian  Horse 

86  Chariot-horse  of  Rameses  III 

86  Ancient  Assyrian  Stable 

86  Assyrian  Riding-horse 

86  Mouth  of  the  Leech 

87  Egyptian  Prince,  with  Charioteer. 

87  Aucieut  Assyriau  Horseman 

90  Egyptian  Princes  in  their  Chariot. 

90  Antique  Figure  of  Horus 

93  Hour-glass  Stand 

101  Oriental  Hut 

102  Model  of  ancient  Egyptian  House. 

106  Hut  of  Greek  Peasant 

110  Modern  Nestorian  House 

112  Ordinary  House  at  Beirout 

112  Front  of  Egyptian  House 

112  Entrance  to  House  in  Cairo 

112  Court  of  House  at  Antioch 

113  Court  of  House  at  Cairo 

113  Interior  of  House  at  Damascus.... 
113  Ka'ah  of  House  at  Cairo 

113  Latticed  Windows  at  Cairo 

114  Flat-roofed  Houses  at  Gaza 

115  Ancient  Battlements 

177  Modern  Egyptian  House-tops 

17S  Ancient  Egyptian  Flat  Roof 

195  Ancient  Assyrian  Flat  Roof. 

197  Ancient  Assyriau  Huntsman 

213  Assyrian  Lion  Hunt 

215  Ancient  Egyptian  Hunter 

217  Ceratonia  Siliqua 

218|  Hyena 

233  j Hyssopus  Officinalis 

236 1 Caucasian  Ibex 

237  Sacred  Ibis 

241  j Coin  of  Iconium 

24llRavine  in  Idumaea 

243  Interior  of  Temple  at  Medinet-Abu 

243  Impost  at  Barton  Seagrave 

243|Modern  Oriental  Writing  Imple- 

244  ments o 

244  Ancient  Egyptian  Writing-tablet..  5 

246  Plan  of  Khan  at  Idalia 5 

246  Egyptian  Hieroglyphics 6 

260  Figurative  and  Symbolic  Hiero- 

265  glyphics C 

267|EugravedRocksin  WadyMokatteb  6 


270;Christian  Inscriptions Page  60S,  610 

270'Ancient  Egyptian  Irrigation 661 

271 1 Modern  Egyptian  Shaduf 661 

273!Gnostic  Gem  of  Isis 689 

2S0|Map  of  Issachar 7o0 

305lMap  of  Ancient  Italy 704 

310!Elephauts’  Tusks  brought  to 

310  ThothmesIIl 1 717 

312  Ivory  as  Tribute  to  Assyria 717 

32S  ' Hedera  Helix 718 

332  Column  of  Jachin 725 

336{Easteru  Jackals 726 

340tCoin  with  Head  of  Janus 778 

340 1 Valley  of  Jehoshaphat 809 

340,General  View  of  Ancient  Jernsa- 

340  lem  restored.., S37 

341  Assyrian  Delineation  perhaps  of 

845 1 Jerusalem 839 

345  Jews’  “Wailing  Place” 842 

345  J Map  of  Ancient  Jerusalem 844 

346  Probable  Contour  of  Ophel 845 

346  Section  of  theTyroposon 845 

340  Modern  “Gate  of  Gennath” 847 

34S  Street  in  Modern  Jerusalem 850 

34S  Remains  of  Bridge  at  Jerusalem . . S50 
34S  Pier  of  Arch  across  the  Tyropoeon.  851 
349jPassage  below  the  Mosque  el-Aksa  851 
350  Jerusalem  from  the  “ Well  of  Joab”  S52 
367  Map  of  the  Environs  of  Jerusalem  854 

36S  Interior  of  “Goldeu  Gate” 856 

369jThe  “ Castle  ofDavid” 857 

370[Quarries  under  Jerusalem 857 

370|Mai>  of  Modern  Jerusalem 858 

370  Christ’s  Journeys  during  his  Iutro- 

370)  ductoryYear 8S8 

371  Christ’s  Journeys  during  his  First 

more  public  Year 8S9 

Ruins  of  “Synagogue”  at  Tell- 

Hum 8S9 

Christ’s  Journeys  during  his  Sec- 
ond more  public  Year 890 

Ruins  of  “ Synagogue”  atKerazeh  S91 
Christ’s  Journeys  during  his  Third 

more  public  Year S92 

Christ’s  Journeys  during  Passion 

Week S95,  897 

Map  of  the  Valley  of  Jezreel 918 

411  Tomb  of  the  Prophet  Jonah  at  Mo- 

412]  sul 9S9 

418  Terraces  of  the  Jordan 1007 

429  Upper  Ford  of  the  Jordan,  near 

451 ! Bethshan 1007 

454  Lower  Ford  of  the  Jordan  at  Wa- 

455!  dyNawaimeh 1008 

463  Joseph's  Tomb 1017 

4S9  Map  of  the  Tribe  of  Judah 1051 

502  Tombs  of  Seid  Yehudah 1054 


523 


Roman  Judgment-seat 10S2 

Julian  the  Apostate 1090 

Coin  of  Julias 1092 

Julius  Csesar 1093 

Juniperus  Phoenicia 1096 

Genista  Monosperma 1096 

Head  of  Jupiter  Olympins 1099 

Medal  of  Justinian HU 


C TC  L 0 P M D I A 


OP 


BIBLICAL,  THEOLOGICAL,  AND  ECCLESIASTICAL  LITERATURE, 


H. 


Haag  (Hague)  Apologetical  Society,  a sci- 
entific society  in  Holland,  founded  in  1785  for  the  purpose 
of  calling  forth  scientific  works  in  defence  of  the  Chris- 
tian religion.  It  annually  offers  a prize  of  400  florins 
for  the  best  work  on  a topic  proposed.  (A,  J.  S.) 

Haahash'teri  (Heb.  with  the  art.  [which  the  A. 
V.  has  mistaken  for  part  of  the'name]  lui-A  ehushtari', 
•Hpvrnsn,  i.  e.  the  Aehastarite , prob.  of  foreign  [?  Per- 
sian] origin;  according  to  Fiirst,  an  adj.  from  the  word 
acliastar,  i.  e.  courier  [compare  D‘,3“irrrnx,  “camels,” 
Esth.  viii,  10,  14];  according  to  Geseuius,  mule-driver ; 
Sept.  6 ’AoSijod  v.  r.  ’A aaSljp,  etc.,  Ytdg.  Ahasthari), 
the  last  mentioned  of  the  four  sons  of  Naarah,  second  of 
the  two  wives  of  Ashur,  the  founder  of  Tekoa,  of  the 
tribe  of  Judah  (l  Chron.  iv,  6).  B.C.  post  1618. 

Ha-ammonai.  See  Ciiepiiar-iiaaji.wonai. 

Haan,  Carolus  i>e,  was  born  at  Arnheim  Aug.  16, 
1530.  Becoming  acquainted  with  the  Beformation,  he 
resolved  to  leave  the  Bom  an  Catholic  Church  and  his 
legal  studies,  and  repaired  to  Geneva,  where  he  studied 
theology  under  Calvin  and  Beza.  In  1560  he  became  a 
minister  of  the  Beformed  Church  at  Deventer.  Driven 
from  thence  by  persecution,  he  was  invited  to  I lam  by 
William,  duke  of  Cleves,  and  exercised  his  ministry 
there  for  sixteen  years,  until  persecution  again  compel- 
led him  to  depart.  Count  Jan  of  Nassau,  stadtholder  of 
Guelderland,  and  his  son,  Lodewijk  Willem,  stadtholder 
of  Friesland,  then  secured  his  services  to  effect  a refor- 
mation of  the  Church  in  their  respective  provinces,  lie 
afterwards  returned  to  Deventer,  but  was  again  com- 
pelled to  leave  it  in  1587,  when  it  fell  into  the  hands  of 
the  Spaniards.  He  repaired  the  same  year  to  Leyden, 
where  he  was  temporarily  appointed  professor  extraor- 
dinary of  theology.  This  position  he  held  for  four  years. 
He  was  then  called  to  Oldenbroek,  where  he  exercised 
his  ministrjr  till  he  had  passed  the  age  of  eighty.  He 
died  at  Leyden  Jan.  28,  1616.  He  wrote  an  exposition 
of  the  Bevelathm  of  St.  John  in  Latin,  and  a work  in 
Dutch  against  the  Anabaptists.  Sec  Glasius,  Godge- 
leerd  Nederland , i.  * (J.  P.  W.) 

Ha-araloth.  See  Gibeaii-haaralotii. 

Haas,  Gerardus  de,  D.D.,  was  born  in  1736.  Af- 
ter completing  his  theological  studies  at  Utrecht,  and 
receiving  the  doctorate  in  theology  in  1761,  he  was  set- 
tled successively  at  Amersfoort,  Middelburg,  and  Am- 
sterdam. Ills  works  are  chiefly  exegetieal  and  dog- 
matic. The  most  important  of  them  are,  A anmerkingen 
over  hel  sevende  Boeh  der  Godspraaken  ran  Jesaia  (Utr. 
1773);— Ilet  riifde  en  drie  volgende  hoofdstukken  nit  Pan- 
ins brief  aan  de  Jdomeiuen  verkluard  (Amst.  1789-93,  3 
parts)  : — Verhandeling  over  de  toekamende  iccreld  (Amst. 
1798): — Over  de  Openbaring  van  Johannes  (Amst.  1807, 
3 parts).  He  also  completed  the  commentary  of  Prof. 
Nalmis  on  the  Epistle  to  the  Philippians.  It  was  pub- 
lished at  Amsterdam  in  1783  in  3 vols.  See  Glasius, 
Godgeleerd  Xede?’land,  i.  (J.  P.  W.) 

IV.— A 


Haba'iah  (Ilcb.  Chabayah',  fUOtl  or  pro- 

tected by  Jehoyah ; Sept.  'O ftata  and  ’E/Som),  a priest 
whose  descendants  returned  from  the  captivity  with  Zc- 
rubbabel,  but  were  degraded  from  the  priestly  office  on 
account  of  not  Wing  able  to  trace  their  genealogy  (Ezra 
ii,  6;  Neh.  vii,  63).  B.C.  ante  459. 

Hab'akkuk  [many  Ilubak'kuk ] (Heb.  Chabak - 
kuk',  psipSPI,  embrace ; Sept.  'A/t/Sa/cooq,  Yulg.  Ilaba- 
euc ; Jerome,  Preef  in  Hub.  translates  7Tf pi\r]\pic,  and 
Suidas  iruTt)p  tyipouoc ; other  Griecized  and  Latinized 
forms  are  ’Afificuco vy,  ’Ay ficacovic,  Ambacum,  Abacuc, 
etc.),  the  eighth  in  order  of  the  twelve  minor  prophets 
(q.  v.)  of  the  Old  Testament. 

1.  As  to  the  name,  besides  the  above  forms,  the 
Greeks,  not  only  the  Sept,  translators,  but  the  fathers 
of  the  Church,  probably  to  make  it  more  sonorous,  cor- 
rupt it  into  ’ApaficiKovjc;  ’Apafiaicovpio,  or,  as  Jerome 
writes,  ’AfiaKovpco,  and  only  one  Greek  copy,  found  in 
the  library  of  Alcala,  in  .Spain,  has  'A[i(3anovK,  which 
seems  to  be  a recent  correction  made  to  suit  the  Hebrew 
text.  The  Heb.  word  may  denote,  as  observed  by  Je- 
rome, as  well  a “favorite”  as  a “ struggler.”  Abarbancl 
thinks  that  in  the  latter  sense  it  has  allusion  to  the  pa- 
triotic zeal  of  the  prophet  fervently  contending  for  the 
welfare  of  his  country : but  other  prophets  did  the  same; 
and  in  the  former  and  less  distant  signification,  the  name 
would  be  one  like  Theophilus,  “a  friend  of  God,”  which 
his  parents  may  have  given  him  for  a good  omen.  Lu- 
ther took  the  name  in  the  active  sense,  and  applied  it 
to  the  labors  and  writings  of  the  man,  thus:  “ Ilabak- 
kuk  had  a proper  name  for  his  office ; for  it  signifies  a 
man  of  heart,  one  who  is  hearty  tOAvards  another  and 
takes  him  into  his  arms.  This  is  what  he  does  in  his 
prophecy;  he  comforts  his  people  and  lifts  them  up,  as 
one  would  do  with  a weeping  child  or  man,  bidding  him 
be  quiet  and  content,  because,  please  God,  it  woidd  yet 
be  better  with  him.”  But  all  this  is  speculation.  See 
Keil  and  Delitzsch,  Comment,  ad  cap.  i,  1. 
i 2.  Of  the  facts  of  this  prophet’s  birth-place,  parent- 
age, and  life  we  have  only  apocryphal  and  conflicting 
accounts  (sec  Delitzsch,  De  Ilabacuci  vita  et  eetate,  Lips. 

1842,  1844).  The  Babbinical  tradition  that  Habakkuk 
was  the  son  of  the  Sluinammite  woman  whom  'filisha 
restored  to  life  is  repeated  by  Abarbancl  in  his  commen- 
tary, and  has  no  other  foundation  than  a fanciful  ety- 
mology of  the  prophet’s  name,  based  on  the  expression 
in  2 Kings  iv,  16.  Equally  unfounded  is  the  tradition 
that  he  was  the  sentinel  set  by  Isaiah  to  watch  for  the 
destruction  of  Babylon  (comp.  Isa.  xxi,  16  with  llab.  ii, 

1).  In  the  title  of  the  history  of  Bel  and  the  Dragon, 
as  found  in  the  Sept,  version  in  Origeu’s  letrapla , the 
author  is  called  “ Habakkuk,  the  son  of  Joshua,  of  the 
tribe  of  Levi.”  Some  have  supposed  this  apocryphal 
writer  to  be  identical  with  the  prophet  (Jerome,  Proam . 
in  Dan.).  The  psalm  in  ch.  iii  and  its  title  are  thought  ^ 
to  favor  the  opinion  that  Habakkuk  was  a Levite  (De- 


HABAKKUK 


2 


HABAKKUK 


litzsch,  Habnkuk,  p.  iii).  Rseudo-Epiphaiiiiifl  (ii.  240,  De 
| 'it is  Pmp/iefarum)  and  Dorotheas  (Citron.  Pasch.  p. 
150)  say  that  he  was  of  iitjO^OKt'ip  or  \ii]9iroi>xop  (v.  r. 
Biji’So Vi'/p,  Ihe^tyiip)  (Hethacat,  Isiil.  llispal.  e.  47),  of 
t lie  tribe  of  Simeon.  Tliis  may  have  been  the  same  as 
Bcthzach arias,  where  .1  udas  Maccaba?us  was  defeated  by 
AntioeliiLs  Eupator  (1  Maec.  vi,  32,  33).  The  same  au- 
thors relate  that  when  Jerusalem  was  sacked  by  Nebu- 
chadnezzar, Ilahakknk  tied  to  Ostracine,  and  remained 
there  till  after  the  Chahheans  had  left  the  city,  when  he 
returned  to  his  own  country,  and  died  at  his  farm  two 
years  before  the  return  from  Babylon,  15. C.  538.  It  was 
during  his  residence  in  Judaea  that  he  is  said  to  have 
carried  food  to  Daniel  in  the  den  of  lions  at  Babylon. 
Tliis  legend  is  given  in  the  history  of  Bel  and  the  Drag- 
on, and  is  repeated  by  Eusebius,  Bar  llcbrseus,  and  Eu- 
t ych i us.  It  is  quoted  from  Joseph  ben-Corion  ( B.  J . 
xi,  3)  bv  Abarbanel  (Conan,  on  Hub.),  and  seriously  re- 
futed  by  him  on  chronological  grounds.  The  scene  of 
the  event  was  shown  to  mediaeval  travellers  on  the  road 
from  Jerusalem  to  Bethlehem  (Kadi/  Travels  in  Pales- 
tine, p.  20).  Ilahakknk  is  said  to  have  been  buried  at 
Ceila,  in  the  tribe  of  Judah,  eight  miles  east  of  Eleu- 
theropolis  (Eusebius,  Onoinasticon,  s.  v.) ; where,  in  the 
bays  of  Zebenus,  bishop  of  Elcutheropolis,  according  to 
Nicephoros  (//.  E.  xii,  48)  and  Sozomen  (//.  E.  vii,  28), 
the  remains  of  the  prophets  Ilahakknk  and  Micah  were 
both  discovered.  See  Keilaii.  Rabbinical  tradition, 
however,  places  his  tomb  at  Chukkok,  of  the  tribe  of 
Naphthali,  now  called  Jakuk.  See  IU  kkok. 

Book  ok  Uahakkuk. — A full  and  trustworthy  ac- 
count of  the  life  of  this  prophet  would  explain  his  im- 
agery, and  many  of  the  events  to  which  he  alludes;  but 
since  we  have  no  information  on  which  we  can  depend, 
nothing  remains  but  to  determine  from  the  book  itself 
its  historical  basis  and  its  age. 

1.  The  Rabbinical  traditions  agree  in  placing  II  abak- 
kuk  with  Joel  and  Nahum  in  the  reign  of  Manasseh 
(comp.  Seiler  Olam  Rubba  and  Zutu,  and  Tsemach  Da- 
* 'ill).  This  date  is  adopted  by  Kimchi  and  Abarbanel 
among  the  Rabbis,  and  by  Witsins  and  others  among 
modern  writers.  The  general  corruption  and  lawless- 
ness which  prevailed  in  the  reign  of  Manasseh  are 
supposed  to  lie  referred  to  in  1 1 ah.  i,  2-4.  Kalinsky 
conjectures  that  llabakkuk  may  have  been  one  of  the 
prophets  mentioned  in  2 Kings  xxi,  10.  Carpzov  (In- 
trod.  ml  Hbr.  canon.  V.  T.  p.  70,  410)  and  Jahn  (Inf rod. 
in  lihrns  tu terns  I '.  7’.  ii,  § 120)  refer  our  prophet  to  the 
reign  of  Manasseh,  thus  placing  him  thirty  odd  years 
earlier;  but  at  that  time  the  Chahheans  had  not  as  yet 
given  just  ground  for  apprehension,  and  it  would  have 
been  injudicious  in  Ilahakknk  prematurely  to  till  the 
minds  of  the  people  with  fear  of  them.  Some  addition- 
al support  to  our  statement  of  the  age  of  this  book  is 
derived  from  the  tradition,  reported  in  the  apocryphal 
appendix  to  Daniel  and  by  the  Rsendo-Epiphanius,  that 
llabakkuk  lived  to  see  the  Babylonian  exile.  Svneel- 
1ns  ( ( 'b ronor/rnph ia,  p.  214,  230,  210)  makes  him  con- 
temporary with  Ezekiel,  and  extends  the  period  of  his 
prophecy  from  the  time  of  Manasseh  to  that  of  Daniel 
ami  Joshua,  the  son  of  Josedeeh.  The  Chronicon  Pas- 
c/at/e  places  him  later,  first  mentioning  him  in  the  be- 
ginning of  the  reign  of  Josiali  (Olymp.  32),  as  contem- 
porary with  Xcphaniah  and  Nahum;  and  again  in  the 
beginning  of  the  reign  of  Cyrus  (Olymp.  42),  as  con- 
temporary with  Daniel  and  Ezekiel  in  1’ersia,  with 
Ilaggai  and  Zechariah  in  Jiuhea,  and  with  Baruch  in 
Egypt.  Davidson  (Horne’s  Jut  rod.  ii,  5)08),  following 
Keil,  decides  in  favor  of  the  early  part  of  the  reign  of 
Josiali.  t’almet,  Jiiger,  Ewald.  Rosenmttller,  Maurer, 
and  llitzig  agree  in  assigning  the  commencement  of 
1 labakkuk’s  prophecy  to  the  reign  of  Jehoiakim,  though 
they  are  divided  as  to  the  exact  period  to  which  it  is  to 
be  referred.  Rauitz  (Introilnctiu  in  Hub.  Wide.  p.  24, 
pj|)»  ,s,'rk(  l (Prolog,  ml  interpr.  tertii  cap.  Hub.  p.  22, 
27),  and  De  \\  ette  (Le/trbttch  der  Historischkritisclten 
Einkit.  Berlin,  1840, p.338)  justly  place  the  age  of  Ilab- 


akkuk  before  the  invasion  of  Juchea  by  the  Chahheans. 
Knobel  (Der  Prophetism.  de  Hebr.)  and  Meier  (Gesch.  d. 
poet.  nut.  Liter,  d.  Hebr.)  are  in  favor  of  the  commence- 
ment of  the  Chaldsean  sera,  after  the  battle  of  Carclic- 
mish  (B.C.  GOG),  when  Judina  was  first  threatened  by 
the  victors.  Some  interpreters  are  of  opinion  that  eh. 
ii  was  written  in  the  reign  of  Jehoiachin,  the  son  of  Je- 
hoiakim (2  Kings  xxiv,  G),  after  Jerusalem  had  been 
besieged  and  conquered  by  Nebuchadnezzar,  the  king 
i made  a prisoner,  and,  with  many  thousands  of  his  sub- 
1 jects,  carried  away  to  Babylon  ; none  remaining  in  Je- 
rusalem save  the  poorest  class  of  the  people  (2  Kings 
xxiv,  14).  But  of  all  this  nothing  is  said  of  the  book 
of  llabakkuk,  nor  even  so  much  as  hinted  at ; and  what 
is  stated  of  the  violence  and  injustice  of  the  Chaldeans 
does  not  imply  that  the  Jew's  had  already  experienced 
it.  It  is  also  a supposition  equally  gratuitous,  accord- 
ing to  which  some  interpreters  refer  eh.  iii  to  the  period 
of  the  last  siege  of  Jerusalem,  when  Zeclekiah  was  taken, 
his  sons  slain,  liis  eyes  put  out,  the  avails  of  the  city 
broken  down,  and  the  Temple  burned  (2  Kings  xxv,  1- 
10).  There  is  not  the  slightest  allusion  to  any  of  these 
incidents  in  the  third  chapter  of  Habakkuk. 

But  the  question  of  the  date  of  Habakkuk’s  prophecy 
has  been  discussed  in  the  most  exhaustive  manner  by 
Delitzsch  (Der  Prophet  JIabakuk,  Einl.  § 3),  and,  though 
his  arguments  are  rather  ingenious  than  convincing, 
they  are  well  deserving  of  consideration  as  based  upon 
internal  evidence.  The  conclusion  at  which  he  arrives 
is  that  Habakkuk  delivered  his  prophecy  about  the 
twelfth  or  thirteenth  year  of  Josiah  (B.C.  G30  or  G29), 
for  reasons  of  which  the  following  is  a summary.  In 
llab.  i,  5 the  expression  “in  your  days”  shows  that  the 
fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  would  take  place  in  the  life- 
time of  those  to  whom  it  was  addressed.  The  same 
phrase  in  Jer.  xvi,  9 embraces  a period  of  at  most  twen- 
ty years,  while  in  Ezek.  xii,  25  it  denotes  about  six 
years,  and  therefore,  reckoning  backwards  from  the 
Chalda?an  invasion,  the  date  above  assigned  would  in- 
volve no  violation  of  probability,  though  the  argument 
does  not  amount  to  a proof.  From  the  similarity  of 
Hah.  ii,  10  and  Zeph.  i,  7,  Delitzsch  infers  that  the  lat- 
ter is  an  imitation,  the  former  being  the  original.  He 
supports  this  conclusion  by  many  collateral  arguments. 
Now  Zephaniah,  according  to  the  superscription  of  his 
prophecy,  lived  in  the  time  of  Josiah,  and  from  iii,  5 he 
is  supposed  to  have  prophesied  after  the  worship  of  Je- 
hovah was  restored,  that  is,  after  the  twelfth  year  of 
that  king’s  reign.  It  is  thought  that  he  wrote  about 
B.C.  G24.  Between  this  period,  therefore,  and  the  twelfth 
year  of  Josiah  (B.C.  G30),  Delitzsch  places  llabakkuk. 
But  Jeremiah  began  to  prophesy  in  the  thirteenth  year 
of  Josiah,  and  many  passages  are  borrowed  by  him  from 
llabakkuk  (compare  Hal),  ii,  13  with  Jer.  ii,  58,  etc.). 
The  latter,  therefore,  must  have  written  about  B.C.  G30 
or  G29.  This  view  receives  some  confirmation  from  the 
position  of  his  prophecy  in  the  O.-T.  Canon. 

On  the  other  hand,  while  it  is  evident,  from  the  con- 
stant use  of  the  future  tense  in  speaking  of  the  Chal- 
dean desolations  (i,  5,  G,  12),  that  the  prophet  must 
have  written  before  the  invasion  of  Nebuchadnezzar, 
which  rendered  Jehoiakim  tributary  to  the  king  of  Bab- 
ylon (2  Kings  xxiv,  1),  B.C.  GOG,  yet  it  is  equally  clear 
from  eh.  ii,  3 that,  the  prophecy  did  not  long  precede  the 
fulfilment ; and  as  there  seem  to  be  no  references  to  the 
reigns  of  Josiah  or  Jehoahaz  (B.C.  609),  and  as  the  no- 
tices of  the  corruption  of  the  period  agree  with  the  be- 
ginning of  the  reign  of  Jehoiakim,  we  cannot  be  far 
astray  in  assigning  B.C.  G08  as  the  approximate  date  of 
this  hook. 

2.  Instead  of  looking  upon  the  prophecy  as  an  organic 
whole,  RosenmUller  divided  it  into  three  parts  corre- 
sponding to  the  chapters,  and  assigned  the  first  chapter 
to  the  reign  of  Jehoiakim,  the  second  to  that  of  Jehoia- 
eliin,  and  the  third  to  that  of  Zedekiah,  when  Jerusalem 
| was  besieged  for  the  third  time  by  Nebuchadnezzar. 

J Kolinsky  (A  a tic.  Chabuc,  et  Kah ,)  makes  four  divisions. 


IIABAKKUK 


3 


IIABAZANIAII 


and  refers  the  prophecy  not  to  Nebuchadnezzar,  hut  to 
Esarhaddon.  But  in  such  an  arbitrary  arrangement 
the  true  character  of  the  composition  as  a perfectly  de- 
veloped poem  is  entirely  lost  sight  of. 

The  prophet  commences  by  anuotmeing  his  office  and 
important  mission  (i,  1).  He  bewails  the  corruption 
and  social  disorganization  by  which  he  is  surrounded, 
and  cries  to  Jehovah  for  help  (i,  2-4).  Next  follows 
the  reply  of  the  Deity,  threatening  swift  vengeance  (i, 
5-11).  The  prophet,  transferring  himself  to  the  near 
future  foreshadowed  in  the  divine  threatomngs,  sees  the 
rapacity  and  boastful  impiety  of  the  dial  (bean  hosts, 
but,  confident  that  God  has  only  employed  them  as  the 
instruments  of  correction,  assumes  (ii,  1)  an  attitude  of 
hopeful  expectancy,  and  waits  to  see  the  issue.  He  re- 
ceives the  divine  command  to  write  in  an  enduring  form 
the  vision  of  God’s  retributive  justice  as  revealed  to  his 
prophetic  eye  (ii,  2,  3).  The  doom  of  the  C’haldieans  is 
first  foretold  in  general  terms  (ii.  4-0),  and  the  announce- 
ment. is  followed  by  a series  of  denunciations  pronounced 
upon  them  by  the  nations  who  had  suffered  from  their 
oppression  (ii,  6-20).  The  strophical  arrangement  of 
these  “ woes”  is  a remarkable  feature  of  the  prophecy. 
They  are  distributed  in  strophes  of  three  verses  each, 
characterized  by  a certain  regularity  of  structure.  The 
first  four  commence  with  a “Woe!”  and  close  with  a 
verse  beginning  with  (for).  The  first  verse  of  each 
of  these  contains  the  character  of  the  sin,  the.  second  the 
development  of  the  woe,  while  the  third  is  confirmatory 
of  the  woe  denounced.  The  fifth  strophe  differs  from 
the  others  in  form  in  having  a verse  introductory  to  the 
woe.  The  prominent  vices  of  the  Chakkeans’  character, 
as  delineated  in  i,  5-11,  are  made  the  subjects  of  sepa- 
rate denunciations:  their  insatiable  ambition  (ii,  6-8), 
their  covetousness  (ii,  9-11),  cruelty  ii,  12-14),  drunk- 
enness (ii,  15-17),  and  idolatry  (ii,  18-20).  The  whole 
concludes  with  the  magnificent  psalm  in  chap,  iii,  “ Hab- 
akkuk’s  Pindaric  ode”  (Ewald),  a composition  unrival- 
led for  boldness  of  conception,  sublimity  of  thought,  and 
majesty  of  diction.  This  constitutes,  in  Delitzsch’s 
opinion,  “ the  second  grand  division  of  the  ent  ire  proph- 
ecy, as  the  subjective  reflex  of  the  two  subdivisions  of 
the  first,  and  the  lyrical  recapitulation  of  the  whole.” 
It  is  the  echo  of  the  feelings  aroused  in  the  prophet’s 
mind  by  the  divine  answers  to  bis  appeals;  fear  in  an- 
ticipation of  the  threatened  judgments,  and  thankful- 
ness and  joy  at  the  promised  retribution.  But,  though 
intimately  connected  with  the  former  part  of  the  proph- 
ecy, it  is  in  itself  a perfect  whole,  as  is  sufficiently  evi- 
dent from  its  lyrical  character,  and  the  musical  arrange- 
ment by  which  it  was  adapted  for  use  in  the  Temple 
service. 

3.  The  style  of  this  prophet  has  always  been  much  ad- 
mired. Lowth  (De  Poesi  Hebrceor.  p.  287)  says:  “Po- 
eticus  est  Habaccuei  stylus;  sed  maxime  in  oda,  qute 
inter  absolutissimas  in  eo  genere  merito  numerari  po- 
test.” Eichhorn,  De  Wette,  and  Bosenm idler  are  loud 
in  their  praise  of  Habakknk’s  style;  the  first  giving  a 
detailed  and  animated  analysis  of  the  construction  of 
his  prophecies  (EinleiUing  in  das  A.  Test,  iii,  333).  He 
equals  the  most  eminent  prophets  of  the  Old  Testament 
— Joel,  Amos,  Nahum,  Isaiah;  and  the  ode  in  ch.  iii 
may  be  placed  in  competition  with  Psa.  xviii  and  lxviii 
for  origiuality  and  sublimity,  llis  figures  are  all  great, 
happily  chosen,  and  properly  drawn  out.  His  denunci- 
ations are  terrible,  his  derision  bitter,  his  consolation 
cheering.  Instances  occur  of  borrowed  ideas  (iii,  19; 
comp.  Psa.  xviii,  34 : ii,  6 ; comp.  Isa.  xiv,  7 : ii,  14;  comp. 
Isa.  xi,  9) ; but  he  makes  them  his  own  in  drawing  them 
out  in  his  peculiar  manner.  With  all  the  boldness  and 
fervor  of  his  imagination,  his  language  is  pure  and  his 
verse  melodious.  Eichhorn,  indeed,  gives  a considera- 
ble number  of  words  which  he  considers  to  be  pecidiar 
to  this  prophet,  and  supposes  him  to  have  formed  new 
words  or  altered  existing  ones,  to  sound  more  energetic 
or  feeble,  as  the  sentiments  to  be  expressed  might  re- 
quire ; but  his  list  needs  sifting,  as  De  Wette  observes  1 


] ( Einleitung , p.  339) ; and  ii,  16,  is  the  only  un- 

! exceptionable  instance. 

4.  The.  ancient  catalogues  of  canonical  books  of  the 
Old  Testament  do  not,  indeed,  mention  llabakkuk  by 

| name;  but  they  must  have  counted  him  in  the  twelve 
j minor  prophets,  whose  numbers  would  otherwise  not  be 
full.  In  the  New  Testament  some  expressions  of  his 
are  introduced,  but  his  name  is  not  added  (Bom.  i,  17; 
Gal.  iii,  11 ; Hob.  x,  38  ; comp.  Hab.  ii,  4 ; Acts  xiii,  10, 
41 ; comp.  Hab.  i,  5). — Kitto,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v. 

5.  Express  commentaries  on  the  whole  of  this  book 
separately  are  the  following,  of  which  the  most  impor- 
tant are  designated  by  an  asterisk  [*]  prefixed : Theo- 
phvlact,  Commentarius  (in  Opp.  iv) ; Bede.  Expositio  (in 
1 1 'arks,  ix,  404):  Tanehum  of  Jerusalem,  Commentaire 
(ed.  Munk,  Paris,  1843.  8vo) : Abarbanel,  Commentarius 
(ed.  Spreeher,  Traj.  1722.  Helmst.  1790,  8vo);  Luther, 
Auslegung  (Vitemb.  1526,  4to;  Erf.  cod.  8vo  ; in  Latin, 
Argent.  1528. 8 vo);  Capito , Enarrationes  (Argent.  1526, 

J 8vo) ; Chy trams,  Leetiones  (in  Opp.  p.  364) ; Grynanis, 
, Hgpomnemata  (Basil.  1582, 8vo) ; De  Guevara,  Comnu-n- 
| tanas  [Bom.  Cat h.]  (Madrid,  1585, 4to;  1593.  lbl.;  Aug. 
I Vind.  1603 ; Antw.  1609,  4to) ; Agellius,  Commentarius 
! (Antw.  1597.  8vo) ; Tossan,  Parapkrasis  (Erancf.  1599, 

I 8vo);  Garthins,  Commentarius  (Vitemb.  1605, 8vc) : Tar- 
j novius,  Commentarius  (Rost.  1623, 8vo) ; Cocceius, . I mdy- 
sis  (in  Opp.  xi,  657) ; Marbnry,  Commenturie  (Lond.  1650, 
4to) , *I)e  Padilla,  Comment ttrin  [Rom.  Cath.]  (Madrid, 
1657,  2 vols.  4to;  Sidzb.  1674,  4to,  Borne,  1702,  fob); 
Hafenreffer,  Commentarius  [including  Nahum]  (Stuttg. 
1663,  8vo) ; *Yan  Til,  Commentarius  (L.  B.  1700,  4to) ; 
Biermann,  De  Prophezie.  ran  If.  (Utr.  1713,  4to) ; Esch, 

! Erklantng  (Wesel,  1714, 4to) ; Abicht,  A dnotat tones  (Vi- 
I tomb.  1732, 4to) ; Jansen,  Analecta  (in  Pentateuch,  etc.) ; 
*Scheltinga,  Commentarius  (L.  B.  l747,4to) ; *Kalinsky, 
lllnstratio  [including  Nahum]  (Vratislav,  1748,  4to) ; 
Chrysander,  Anmerk.  (Rint.  and  Lpz.  1752,  4to) ; Mon- 
rad , Anmerk.  (from  tlie  Danish,  Gottingen,  1759,  8vo) ; 
Anon.  Traduction  (Paris,  1775,  l2mo) : Perschkc.  Yersio, 
etc.  (Francf.  et.  Lips.  1777,  8vo) ; Ludwig,  Erlauterung 
(Frkft.  1779,  8vo) ; Faber,  Commentatio  (Onold.  1779,  2 
vols.  4to) , “Wahl,  Annie/ kung.  etc.  (Hanover.  1790, 8vo) , 
Kofod,  Commentarius  (Hafn.  1792, 8vo);  Tingstad.  .1  ni- 
madrersiones  (Upsal.  1795,  8vo) ; Hanlein,  Interpretutia 
(Erlang.  1795,  8vo)  ; Bather,  A pplication  (in  Sermons,  i, 
188) ; Plum.  Obserrationes  [including  Obad.]  ((lotting. 
1796,  8vo) ; Conz,  Erlauterung  (in  Sjtiiudlen’s  Beit  rage) ; 
Horst,  Anmerkungen  (Gotha,  1798, 8vo) ; Dahl,  Obserra- 
tiones (Neustr.  1798,  8vo) ; Wolfssohn,  Anmerk.  (Brcsh 
1806,  8vo) ; Eucliel,  Erlaut.  ((’openh.  1815,  8vo) : Justi. 
Erlaut.  (Lpz.  1820,  8vo)  ; Wolff,  Commentar  (Dannst. 
,1822,  8vo) ; Schroder,  Anmerk . [including  Joel, Nahum, 
etc.]  (Hildesh.  1827, 8vo) ; Deutsch,  £*5“?),  etc.  (Bresl. 
1837, 8vo) , *Biiumlein,  Commentarius  (Heilbroun,  1-840, 
8vo) ; *Delitzscll,  .4  uslegung  (Lpz.  1843, 8vo) ; Von  Gum- 
pach,  Erklarung  (Munch.  1860,  8vo)  ; Robinson,  Homi- 
lies (Lond.  1865,  8vo).  See  Prophets,  Mixon, 
i The  following  arc  on  chap,  iii  exclusively:  Barhrd, 
De  eqnitatione  Dei  [ver.  15]  (Lips.  1749,  4to) ; Feder, 
Cunticum  Hub.  (Wiirzb.  1774,  8vo) ; Perschke,  Commen- 
tarius (Francf.  1777,  4 to) ; Busing,  De  fulgoribus  Dei 
[ver.  3,  4]  (Bremen,  1778,  4to) ; Nachtigal,  Erklar.  (in 
Henke’s  Magazine,  iv,  180-190) ; Schroder,  Dissert utio 
(Groningen,  1781, 4to) ; Sehnurrcr,  Dissertatio  (Tubing. 
1786, 4to);  Horner,  Hynnnts  Hab.  (Ups.  1794, 4to) ; Hci- 
denheim,  etc.  (Rodelli.  1800, 1826,  8vo) ; Anton, 

Expositio  (Gb'rl.  1810,  4to) ; Steiger,  Anmerkungen  (in 
Schwarz,  Jahrb.  1824,  p.  136) ; Stickel,  Pro/usio  (Neust. 
1827,  8vo)  ; Reissmann,  De  Cant.  Hab.  (Krauth.  1831, 
8vo)  ; Strong,  Prayer  o f Hab.  (in  the  AItth.  Quur.  Per. 
Jam  1861,  p.  73).  See  Commentary. 

Habazani'all  (Hebrew  Chabatsisinyah , 
peril,  lamp  of  Jehovah , according  to  Fiirst,  collection  of 
Jehovah  ; Sept.  Xafiacriv),  the  father  of  one  Jeremiah 
and  grandfather  of  the  chief  Rechabite  Jaazamah,  which 
| last  the  prophet  Jeremiah  tested  with  the  offer  of  wine 


4 


IIABOR 


IIABBACUC 

in  the  Temple  (Jer.  xxxv,  3).  B.C'.  considerably  ante 

list). 

Hab'bacuc  (Ap>3aKoi>p;  Vulg.  Ilabacuc),  the  form 
in  which  the  name  of  the  prophet  Mabakki  k (q.  v.)  is 
given  in  the  Apocrypha  (Bel,  33, 34, 3o,  37, 30), 

Habergeon,  an  old  English  word  for  breastplate , 
appears  in  the  Am h.  Vers,  as  the  rendering  of  two  Heb. 
terms:  rr~-.  shiryah'  (Job  xli,  *215,  where  it  is  named 
by  zeugma  with  offensive  weapons),  or  yP'Vi1,  shiryon ' 
(■}  (’hron.  xxvi,  Id ; Xch.  iv,  HJ),  a coat  of  mail  (as  ren- 
dered in  1 Sam.  xvii,  5, 38) ; and  JOnn,  tavhura'  (Exod. 
xxviii,  32;  xxxix,  23).  a military  garment, 'properly  of 
linen  strongly  and  thickly  woven,  and  furnished  around 
i iie  neck  ami  breast  with  a mailed  covering  (see  Herod, 
ii,  1*2 . iii,  47 ; and  comp,  the  \ivoSibpy%  of  llomer,  II. 
u.  529,  830).  (Sec  Smith’s  Diet,  of  Class.  Antiq.  s.  v. 
Loriea.)  See  Aioion. 


Ancieut  Egyptian  Linen  Corslet  (from  the  tomb  of 
Humeses  111  at  Thebes). 


Habevkorn,  Petit:,  a Herman  divine,  born  at 
Bul/.hach  in  1(501.  After  tilling  various  other  posts,  lie 
was  made  professor  of  theology  at  (iiesseu,  and  died 
there,  April.  107(5.  He  was  distinguished  as  a polemic, 
•specially  against  the  Bnniaiusts  and  Syncretists  (q.  v.). 
lie  wrote  (1)  1 intliralio  J.uth.Jub i : — (2)  /Jcptos  disptt- 
httinmno  1 nti  - 1 5 'u/lembii  rgica  rn  m (lOftU,  1(552,2  vols. 
8vo).  -Thohick,  in  llerzog,  Bad- Lucy  klop.  v,  438,  4311. 

Habert,  Isaac,  doctor  of  the  Sorhonne,  the  lirst 
Parisian  theologian  who  wrote  against  .laiiscuiiis.  He 
was  a native  of  Paris,  studied  at  the  Sorhonne,  was  ap- 
pointed  canon  of  the  cathedral  of  Paris,  and  in  1045 
bishop  of  Vabres.  He  tilled  this  post  lor  twenty-three 
years,  was  reputed  a very  pious  man,  and  died  at  Pont 
de  Salars.  near  Bode/.,  in  1008.  In  1(511  ho  accused 
Jaiisciiius  of  holding  heretical  doctrines  on  forty  points, 
and  thcrehv  provoked  Antoine  Arnauld  to  answer  him 
in  his  . I polor/ir,  in  which  he  sought  to  prove  the  iden- 
tity of  t lie  doctrines  of  Jaiisciiius  ami  St.  Augustine. 
1 1 abort  nevertheless  remained  a declared  enemy  of  Jan- 
senins,  and  to  him  is  ascribed  the  antborsliip  of  the  let- 
ter sent  to  pope  Innocent  X in  1051,  and  signed  by 
eighty-five  bishops,  praying  him  to  decide  the  question 
finally.  The  most  noteworthy  of  his  works  are:  lk 
gratia  ex  purtibus  greeds  (1040)  :—De  consensu  hierar- 


chies et  monarchice  (Paris,  1040)  :—De  cathedra  seu  pri- 
matu  S.  Petri  (Paris,  1045).  He  translated  also  into 
Latin  the  ceremonial  of  the  Eastern  Church,  under  the 
title  Liber  pontificates,  Greece  et  Latins  c.not.  (Paris,  1043, 
fob). — Herzog,  Real-Encyklopddie, v,  439 ; Iloefer,  Xouv. 
Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  13. 

Habesh.  See  Abyssinian  Churcii. 

Habit.  See  Dress. 

Habit,  “ a power  and  ability  of  doing  anything,  ac- 
quired by  frequent  repetition  of  the  same  action.  4 Man,’ 
says  Dr.  Palov,  ‘is  a bundle  of  habits.  There  are  hab- 
its of  industry,  attention,  vigilance,  advertency;  of  a 
prompt  obedience  to  the  judgment  occurring,  or  of 
yielding  to  the  first  impulse  of  passion;  of  extending 
our  views  to  the  future,  or  of  resting  upon  the  present ; 
of  apprehending,  methodizing,  reasoning;  of  indolence 
and  dilatoriness;  of  vanity,  self-conceit,  melancholy, 
partiality;  of  fretfulncss,  suspicion,  captiousness,  censo- 
riousness; of  pride,  ambition,  covetousness;  of  over- 
reaching, intriguing,  projecting;  in  a word,  there  is  not 
a quality  or  function,  either  of  body  or  mind,  which 
does  not  feel  the  influence  of  this  great  law  of  animated 
nature.’"  ‘‘If  the  term  attachment  seems  too  good,  to 
be  applied  to  habits,  let  us,  if  you  please,  call  them  tics. 
Habits,  in  fact,  are  tics,  chains.  We  contract  them  un- 
awares, often  without  feeling  any  pleasure  in  them ; hut 
we  cannot  break  them  without  pain.  It  costs  us  some- 
thing to  cease  to  he  what  we  have  always  been,  to  ceaso 
doing  what  we  have  always  done.  Life  itself,  in  its 
least  attractive  form,  the  life  least  deserving  of  the 
name,  is  dear  to  us  from  the  mere  habit  of  living.  The 
most  intimate  attachments,  and,  still  more,  the  most 
incontestable  duties,  have  often  given  way  before  the 
power  of  habit.  To  have  the  loins  girt  about,  then,  is 
not  merely  to  distrust  our  attachments;  it  is  to  prevent 
our  habits  from  striking  their  roots  too  deep  within. 
Nothing,  therefore,  which  is  habitual  should  be  regard- 
ed as  trivial.  The  most  invisible  tics  are  not  the  weak- 
j cst,  and,  at  all  events,  their  number  renders  them  hide-  . 
strncttble.  We  must  remember  that  a cable  is  com- 
posed of  threads.  It  is  impossible  to  dispense  with 
habits;  a life  without  habits  is  a life  without  a rule. 
But  in  regard  to  these,  as  in  regard  to  everything  else, 
it  is  necessary  to  say  with  the  apostle,  ‘All  tilings  are 
lawful  unto  me,  but  I will  not  be  brought  under  the 
power  of  any”’  (Vinet,  Gospel  Studies , p.  310).  See 
Fcllowes,  Body  of  Theology,  i,  58;  Palev,  Moral  Philos- 
ophy, i,  48 ; Karnes,  Klc-m.  of  Criticism,  ch.  xiv ; Jortin, 
Sermons,  vol.  iii;  Beid,  A dire  Powers  of  Man ,•  111  ii  11c  r. 
On  the  Christian  Doctrine  oj  Sin  (see  Index). 

Habitation  (represented  by  several  Heb.  and  Gr. 
words).  ( !od  is  metaphorically  called  the  habitation  of 
his  people  (Psa.  lxxi,  3) . in  him  they  find  the  most  de- 
lightful rest,  safety,  and  comfort  (Psa.  xci,  9).  Justice 
ami  judgment  are  the,  habitation  of  God’s  throne  (Psa. 
lxxxix,  14),  all  his  acts  being  founded  on  justice  and 
judgment  (Psa.  exvii.  2).  The  land  of  Canaan,  the  city 
of  Jerusalem,  the  tabernacle  and  Temple,  arc  spoken  of 
as  the  habitation  of  God  ; there  he  does  or  did  signally 
show  himself  present  (Psa.  cxxxii,  5,  13;  Epli.  ii,  22). 
Eternity  is  represented  as  his  habitation  (Isa.  lvii.  15). 
He  ‘‘  inhabited  the  praises  of  Israel,”  a 1 old  metaphor, 
implying  that  Jehovah  is  the  object  of,  and  kindly  ac- 
cepts the  praises  of  bis  people  (Psa.  xxii,  3).  See 
Dwku.inu. 

Habits.  See  Vestments. 

Ha'bor  (Heb.  Chabor’.  n,  if  of  Sliemitie  origin, 
trom  “in,  to  join,  meaning  the  united  stream ; if  of  Per- 
sic derivation,  from  khiibpar  = tVKpypuoQ, with  beautiful 
banks  [ F first,  Lex.  s.  v.j  ; Sept.  ’A/3d»p  and  Xaj3dp).  a 
river,  and  apparently  also  a district  of  Assyria,  to,  which 
considerable  interest  is  attached  in  connection  with  the 
first,  captivity.  We  read  in  1 Churn,  v,  2G,  that  Tilgath- 
pihiescr  carried  away  ‘‘the  Beubenites,  and  the  Gadites, 
and  the  half-tribe  of  Manasseh,  aud  brought  them  unto 


HABOE 


5 


HACKET 


Ilalah,  aj>d  Habor,  ami  Ilara,  and  to  the  river  Gozan.” 
About  seventeen  years  later,  Shalmaneser,  the  successor 
of  the  former  monarch,  “ took  Samaria,  and  carried  Is- 
rael away  into  Assyria,  and  placed  them  in  Ilalah,  and 
in  Ilabor , the  river  of  Gozan”  (A.V.,  “bg  the  river  Go- 
zan,” 2 Kings  xvii,  G;  xviii,  11).  There  are  two  rivers 
still  bearing  this  name,  and  geographers  are  not  agreed 
as  to  which  is  here  referred  to.  See  Captivity. 

1.  A river  called  Khabur  rises  in  the  central  high- 

lands of  Kurdistan,  flows  in  a south-westerly  direction, 
and  falls  into  the  Tigris  about  seventy  miles  above  Mo- 
sul (Layard,  Nineveh  and  Babylon , p.  5(5 ; Sclniltens,  In- 
dex Geogr.  in  vitmn  Saladini,  s.  v.).  Many  suppose  this 
to  be  the  Habor  of  Scripture  for  the  following  reasons : 
1.  It  is  within  Assyria  proper,  which  Ptolemy  says  was 
hounded  on  the  west  by  the  Tigris  (vi,  1).  2.  It  is  af- 

firmed that  the  Assyrian  monarch  would  place  his  cap- 
tives in  a central  part  of  his  kingdom,  such  as  this  is, 
and  not  in  the  outskirts  (lveil  on  2 Kings  xvii,  4-G).  8. 
Ilabor  is  termed  “a  river  of  Gozan”  (“115  “lfni3  “"211) ; 
and  Gozan  is  supposed  to  signify  “ pasture,”  and  to  be 
identical  with  the  word  Zozan , now  applied  by  the  Nes- 
torians  to  the  pasture-lands  in  the  highlands  of  Assyria, 
where  the  Khabur  takes  its  rise  (Grant,  The  Nestoriun 
Christians , p.  124).  4.  Ptolemy  mentions  a mountain 

called  Ckabor  (Xo/3wpac)  which  divides  Assyria  from 
Media  (vi,  1);  and  Bocliart  says  the  river  Chabor  has 
its  source  in  that  mountain  (Opera,  i,  194,  242,  3G2). 
Some  have  supposed  that  the  modern  Nestorians  are  the 
descendants  of  the  captive  Jews  (Grant,  l.  <?.).  See  GO- 
ZAN. 

2.  The  other  and  much  more  celebrated  river,  Kha- 
bur. is  that  famous  affluent  of  the  Euphrates,  which  is 
called  Aborrhas  (Afioppag)  by  Strabo  (xvi,  1,27)  and 
Procopius  (j Bell.  Pers . ii,  5) ; A burns  (AjSovpac)  by  Isi- 
dore of  Charax  (p.  4) ; A bora  (A ftdtpci)  by  Zosimus  (iii, 
12);  and  Chaboras  by  Ptolemy  (XafiibpaQ,  v,  IS) -and 
Pliny  (If.  Ar.  xxx,  3).  “ It  rises  about  lat.  3G°  40',  long. 
40^;  flows  only  a little  south  of  east  to  its  junction  near 
Kaukab  with  the  Jerujer  or  river  of  Nisibis,  which 
comes  down  from  Mons  Masius.  Both  of  these  branch- 
es are  formed  by  the  union  of  a number  of  streams. 
Neither  of  them  is  fordable  for  some  distance  above 
their  junction ; and  below  it  they  constitute  a river  of 
such  magnitude  as  to  be  navigable  for  a considerable 
distance  by  steamers.  The  course  of  the  Khabur  below 
Kaukab  is  tortuous  [through  rich  meads  covered  with 
flowers,  having  a general  direction  about  S.S.W.  to  its 
junction  with  the  Euphrates  at  Karkesia,  the  ancient 
Circesium].  The  entire  length  of  the  stream  is  not  less 
than  200  miles”  (Rawlinson,  Ancient  Monarchies,  i,23G; 
see  Ainsworth,  Travels  in  the  Track  of  the  Ten  Thou- 
sand, p.  79 ; Layard,  Xinereh  and  Babylon,  p.  304).  Bit- 
ter ( Erdkunde , x,  24s),  Gescnius  ( Thesaurus ),  Layard, 
Rawlinson,  and  others,  maintain  that  this  is  the  ancient 
Ilabor.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  Assyria  proper  was 
confined  to  the  country  lying  along  the  banks  of  the 
Upper  Tigris,  and  stretching  eastward  to  Media.  But 
its  territory  gradually  expanded  so  as  to  include  Baby- 
lonia (Herodotus,  iii,  92),  Mesopotamia  (Pliny,  II.  A\  vi, 
2G),  and  even  the  country  westward  to  the  confines  of 
Cilicia  and  Phoenicia  (Strabo,  xvi).  At  the  time  of  the 
captivity  the  power  of  Assyria  was  at  its  height.  The 
Jewish  captives  were  as  secure  on  the  banks  of  the 
western  as  of  the  eastern  Ilahor.  The  ruins  of  Assyrian 
towns  are  scattered  over  the  whole  of  northern  Meso- 
potamia. “On  the  banks  of  the  lower  Khabur  are  the 
remains  of  a royal  palace,  besides  many  other  traces  of 
the  tract  through  which  it  runs  having  been  perma- 
nently occupied  by  the  Assyrian  people.  Even  near 
Seruj,  in  the  country  between  Haran  and  the  Euphra- 
tes, some  evidence  has  been  found  not  only  of  conquest, 
but  of  occupation”  (Rawlinson,  Ancient  Monarchies,  i, 
247 ; see  Chesney,  Euphrates  Expedition,  i,  1 14 ; Layard, 
Ain.  and  Bab.  p.  275,  279-300,  312).  There  can  lie  no 
doubt  that  the  Khabur  was  in  Assyria,  and  near  the 
centre  of  the  kingdom,  at  the  time  of  the  captivity. 


Further,  Ptolem y mentions  a province  in  Mesopotamia 
called  Gauzanitis  (v,  18).  It  lay  aronml  the  Khabur, 
and  was  doubtless  identical  with  Gozan,  hence  the  phrase 
“ Habor,  the  river  of  Gozan”  (2  Kings  xvii,  G).  Chalci- 
tis,  which  appears  to  be  identical  with  Ilalah,  mention- 
ed in  the  same  passage,  adjoined  Gauzanitis.  It  is  a 
remarkable  fact  that  down  as  late  as  the  12th  century 
there  were  large  Jewish  communities  on  the  banks  of 
the  Khabur  (Benjamin  of  Tuclela,  in  Early  Tiarels  m 
Pal.  p.  92  sq.).  The  district  along  the  banks  probably 
took  its  name  from  the  river,  as  would  seem  from  a com- 
parison with  1 Chron.  v,  2G.  Ptolemy  mentions  a town 
called  Chabor  (v,  18).  The  Khabur  occurs  under  that 
name  in  an  Assyrian  inscription  of  the  9th  century  be- 
fore our  icra  (Layard,  Xin.  and  Bab.  p.  354).  See  Cu- 
neiform Inscriptions. 

It  seems  doubtful  whether  Ilabor  was  identical  with 
the  river  Chebar  (“i S3),  on  which  Ezekiel  saw  his  vis- 
ions. The  latter  was  perhaps  farther  south  in  Babylo- 
nia (Ezek.  i,  3,  etc.). — Kitto,  s.  v.  Sec  Chebar. 

Haccerem.  See  Betii-iiac-cerem. 

Hachali'ah  (Ilcb.  Chakalyak',  iVp^n;  according 
to  Geseni us,  whose  eyes  Jehovah  enlivens;  according  to 
Flirst,  ornament  of  Jehovah Sept.  'AyaXin  v.  r.  XsX- 
nia),  the  father  of  Nehemiali,  the  governor  after  the 
captivity  (Nell,  i,  1 ; x,  2).  B.C.  ante  447. 

Hach'ilah  (Heb.  Chakilah',  nb"3n . according  to 
Gesenius.  darksome;  according  to  Flirst,  drought ; Sept. 
’EyfXrr  v.  r.  XtXftcdj),  the  descriptive  name  of  a well- 
wooded  hill  (n3*!:S)  near  (“on  the  south  of,”  “before,” 
“by  the  way  of”)  the  wilderness  (“  Jeshimon”)  of  Ziph, 
where  David  lay  hid,  and  where  Saul  pitched  his  tent 
at  the  information  of  the  Ziphites  (l  Sam.  xxiii,  19; 
xxvi,  1,  3).  This  is  doubtless  the  Tell  Zif  reported 
by  Dr.  Robinson  ( Researches , ii,  190,  191)  as  “a  round 
eminence  situated  in  the  plain,  a hundred  feet  or  more 
in  height,”  with  a level  plot  on  the  top,  apparently  once 
inclosed  by  a wall,  and  containing  several  cisterns;  ly- 
ing a short  distance  west  of  the  site  of  the  town  of  Ziph. 
See  Ziph.  The  identification  proposed  by  Schwarz 
(Palest,  p.  1 13)  with  “ the  village  Beth-Chachal,  24  miles 
west  of  Hebron,”  is  unsupported  and  out  of  place. 

Hach'moni  (Heb.  Chalcmoni',  wise;  Sept. 

’ A\ap.uvi  v.  r.  Ayn/ii,  Yuig.  Ilachamoni),  a man  only 
known  as  the  father  (or  ancestor;  comp.  1 Chron. xxvii, 
2)  of  Jashobeam,  the  chief  of  David’s  warriors  (1  Chron. 
xi,  11,  where  son  of  Ilachmoni  is  rendered  “IIac  umo- 
nite,”  for  which  the  parallel  passage,  2 Sam.  xxiii,  8, 
has  “ Taciimonite”)  ; and  also  of  Jehicl,  the  companion 
of  the  princes  in  the  royal  household  (1  Chron.  xxvii, 
32).  B.C.  considerably  ante  104G.  llaehmon  or  llaeh- 
moui  was  no  doubt  the  founder  of  a family  to  which 
these  men  belonged;  the  actual  father  of  Jashobeam 
was  Zabdiel  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  2),  and  he  is  also  said  to 
have  belonged  to  the  Korhites  (1  Chron.  xii,  G);  possi- 
bly the  Levites  descended  from  Korah.  But  the  name 
Hachmon  nowhere  appears  in  the  genealogies  of  the. 
Levites.  See  Kennicott,  Piss.  p.  72,  82,  who  calls  at- 
tention to  the  fact  that  names  given  in  Chronicles  with 
Ben  are  in  Samuel  given  without  the  Ben,  but  with  the 
definite  article.  A less  probable  view  is  that  which 
makes  this  term  a title  of  office,  q.  d.  counsellor.  See 
Jashobeam. 

Hach'monite  (1  Chron.  xi.  1G).  See  IIachmonj. 

Hacket,  John,  an  English  prelate,  distinguished 
for  his  talents  in  controversy,  was  horn  at  London  in 
1592.  He  studied  at  Westminster  School,  and  entered 
Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  in  1G08.  lie  took  orders 
in  1618,  and  soon  after  became  chaplain  of  the  bishop 
of  Lincoln.  At  the  beginning  of  the  Civil  XX  ar  he  was 
one  of  the  divines  chosen  to  prepare  a report  on  Church 
reforms,  to  be  presented  by  a committee  of  the  House 
of  Lords.  This  plan  failed  from  the  opposition  of  the 
bishops.  Hacket  was  a zealous  partisan  of  Charles,  and 


IIACKET 


HADAD 


his  house  became  the  head-quarters  of  the  Royalists  in 
his  neighborhood.  This  brought  liiin  into  trouble,  and 
Ik*  was  even  imprisoned  for  a short  time.  Alter  the 
Restoration  he  was  made  bishop  of  Lichfield  and  Coven- 
try, and  he  caused  the  cathedral  ol  Lichlicld,  which  had 
been  much  injured  during  the  war,  to  be  repaired,  most- 
ly at  Ins  own  expense,  lie  died  at  Lichfield  in  1070. 

I lacket  was  a Calvinist ; yet  his  writings  abound,  says 
Coleridge,  “in  fantastic  rags  and  lappets  of  Popish 
monkery.”  He  wrote  also  .1  Sermon  preached  before 
the  Kin}/  March  22,  1660:—  I Century  of  Sermon*  upon 
st  rend  remarkable  Subjects  (published  by  Tlios.  Plume, 
with  a life  of  the  author,  1675,  fol.) : — The  Life  of 
Archbishop  Williams  (1693,  fol.).  See  Biogr.  Britan- 
uica  ; Wood,  A theme  0 rnnienses,  vol.  ii  ; Gentleman's 
Magazine.  vol.  lxvi , Hook,  Kerbs.  Biograph /,  v,  471; 
Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors,  i,  752;  Coleridge,  Works  (Sevr 
York  edition),  v,  123. 

Hacket,  William,  an  English  enthusiast  and  fa- 
natic of  the  Kith  century.  He  was  at  first  the  servant 
of  a gentleman  named  Hussey,  but  married  a rich  wid- 
ow, whose  fortune  he  soon  spent  in  dissipation,  lie 
next  appears  at  York  and  in  Lincolnshire,  giving  him- 
self out  as  a prophet,  and  announcing  the  downfall  of 
the  papacy;  that  England  would  suffer  drum  famine, 
pestilence,  and  war  unless  the  consistorial  discipline 
were  established.  lie  was  whipped  and  driven  out  of 
the  county,  but  continued  his  prophecies  elsewhere. 
According  to  Bayle,  lie  was  a very  ready  and  grandilo- 
quent speaker,  so  that  many  among  the  people  thought 
he  had  received  a special  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  He 
affected  to  place  great  reliance  on  his  prayers,  and  as- 
serted that  if  all  England  were  to  pray  for  rain  there 
should  fall  none  if  he  prayed  for  dry  weather.  Edmund 
Cnppinger  and  Henry  Arthington  became  associated 
with  him,  the  former  under  the  name  of  Prophet  of 
Mere//,  the  latter  Prophet  of  Judgment.  They  pro- 
claimed Hacket  the  true  king  of  the  world,  and  next  in 
] mwer  to  Jesus  Christ.  On  Jan.  16,  1591,  lie  sent  his 
disciples  through  the  streets  of  London  crying  that  Je- 
sus had  arrived,  was  stopping  at  a certain  hotel  in  the 
town,  and  tlint  this  time  none  should  undertake  any- 
thing against  him.  They  ended  with  the  cry,  Pepent, 
England,  repent ! They  were  finally  arrested  and  put 
in  prison.  ( 'oppinger  let  himself  die  of  starvation  ; Ar- 
thiiigton  published  a recantation  and  was  forgiven.  As 
for  Market,  he  persisted  to  the  last,  and  was  condemned 
t<»  death  as  guilty  of  impiety  and  rebellion,  and  hung  in 
London  in  July,  1591.  Even  on  the  scaffold  he  prayed 
God  for  a miracle  to  confound  his  enemies.  Sec  Henry 
Fit /.-Simon,  liritannomachin  Ministronnn,  lib.  ii,  cap.  vi, 
p.  202,  206;  Camden,  Annales,  an.  1591,  pars  iv,  p.  018- 
t»23;  Bayle,  Dirt.  hist,  et  crit.;  llocfer,  A ’our.  Biog.  Ge- 
nt rale,  xxiii,  31. 

Hackley,  Chaui.es  W.,  D.D.,  a clergyman  of  the 
1‘rotestant  Episcopal  Church  , and  late  professor  of  math- 
ematics and  astronomy  in  Columbia  College,  New  York, 
was  born  March  9,  lxiiS,  in  Herkimer  County,  X.  York, 
and  dud  in  the  city  of  New  York  Jan.  10,  1861.  Prof. 
Ilacklcv  graduated  at  the  Military  Academy,  West 
Point,  in  1829,  and  was  assistant  professor  of  mathemat- 
ics there  until  1832,  when  he  engaged  in  the  study  of 
law,  but  subsequently  abandoned  it  lor  theology,  and 
was  ordained  in  1835.  He  was  professor  of  inathcmat- 
in  the  Cniversity  of  New  York  until  1838,  then  became 
president  of  Jefferson  College,  Mississippi,  and  subse- 
quently rector  of  St.  Peter's  Protestant  Episcopal  Church, 
Auburn,  N.  Y.  He  was  elected  professor  in  Columbia 
College  ill  18|3,  and  continued  in  that  post  until  his 
death,  lie  was  the  author  of  several  excellent  mathe- 
matical works,  and  a contributor  to  scientific  periodicals 
and  weekly  and  daily  journals.— .1  merican  Annual  ()/- 
rlnptrdta , 18i;i,  p.  362 ; Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors,  i,  753. 
(J.W.  M.) 

Hackspan,  Theodor,  an  eminent  Lutheran  theo- 
logian and  Orientalist,  was  bom  in  1607  at  Weimar,  and 


died  at  Altorf  Jan.  19, 1659.  He  was  educated  at  Jena, 
where  lie  studied  philosophy,  and  then  went  to  Altorf, 
to  profit  by  the  instructions  of  the  able  Orientalist 
Schwentcr,  and  thence  to  Ilelmstadt,  where  be  studied 
theology  under  the  famous  Calixtus.  In  1636  he  re- 
turned to  Altorf,  and  for  many  years  filled  the  chair 
of  Hebrew  iu  its  university,  where  he  was  the  first 
to  publicly  teach  the  Oriental  languages.  In  1654  he 
was  appointed  professor  of  theology  in  that  institu- 
tion, retaining  at  the  same  time  the  chair  of  Oriental 
languages.  His  close  application  to  study  and  to  the 
duties  of  his  professorships  so  impaired  his  health  that 
he  died  in  the  fifty-second  year  of  his  age.  llaekspan 
is  said  to  have  been  the  best  scholar  of  his  day  in  He- 
brew, Chaldee,  Syriac,  and  Arabic.  The  liberality  of 
Jodoen-s  Sclimidmaier,  an  advocate  of  Nuremberg,  who 
established  in  his  own  bouse  a press,  with  supplies  of 
types  in  the  different  languages,  enabled  him  to  publish 
most  of  his  learned  works.  Among  these  we  name  True- 
tutus  de  usu  Librorum  Pabbinicorum : — Sylloge  Dispu- 
tationum  theologicarum  et  philologicarum : — Interpres 
Errubundus : — Disputationes  de  loeutionibus  saeris  (Al- 
torf, 1648): — Observations  A rabica-Syriacee  in  qua  detm 
luca  Yeteris  et  Novi  Testurnenti  (ibid.  1639): — De  Ange- 
lorum  dcemonumque  nominibus  (ibid.  1641): — Tides  et  Le- 
ges Mohhammedis , etc.  (ibid.  1646): — M iseellancorum  Sa- 
crorum  Libri  duo  (ibid.  1660): — Exercitufio  de  Cabbala 
Judaica  (ibid.  1660): — Xotie  philologico -'theologicce  in 
varia  et  tlijjicilia  Scripture  loca  (ibid.  1664,  3 vols.). — 
Rose,  Xeic  Gen.  Biog.  Diet,  viii,  169 ; Hoefer,  A 'our.  Biog, 
Generate,  xxiii,  84.  (J.  W.  M.) 

Ha'dad,  a name  which  occurs  with  considerable 
confusion  of  form  in  the  Heb.  The  proper  orthography 
I seems  to  be  Iladad’  (according  to  Gesenius  from 
an  Arab,  root  signifying  to  break  forth  into  shouts;  hut 
Fiirst  makes  it  — Almighty),  which  appears  iu  Gen. 
xxxvi,  35,  36;  1 Chron.  i.  46,  47,  50,  51  (in  all  which 
passages  it  is  rendered  by  the  Sept.  Avar,  and  Yulg. 
A dad),  and  in  1 Kings  xi,  14-25  (where  the.  Sept,  has 
Atrip,  Yulg.  A dad).  The  other  forms  are  “nn,  Cha- 
dad ' (l  Chron.  i,  30;  Sept.  Xoc«c,Yulg.  Iladad), 

Hudar ’ (Gen.  xxvi,  39;  Sept.  ’ApaS,  Ynlg.  Adar,  EngL 
“Iladar”),  '*HH,  Chadar'  (Gen.  xxv,  15;  Sept  Xota?', 
Yulg.  and  Engl.  Iladar),  and  “TlX,  A dad'  (1  Kings  xi, 
17;  Sept.  ’Aoop,Yulg.  Adud).  It  was  the  name  of  a 
Syrian  idol,  and  was  thence  transferred  to  the  king,  as 
the  highest  of  earthly  authorities,  in  the  forms  Iladad, 
Ben-hadad  (“worshipper  of  Hadad”),  and  Hadad-ezcr 
(“  assisted  by  Iladad,”  Gesenius,  Thesaur.  p.  218).  The 
title  appears  to  have  been  an  official  one,  like  Pharaoh; 
and  perhaps  it  is  so  used  by  Nicolaus  Damascenus,  as 
quoted  by  Josephus  (.1  nt.  vii,  5,  2).  in  reference  to  the 
Syrian  king  who  aided  lladadezer  (2  Sam.  viii,  5).  Jo- 
sephus appears  to  have  used  the  name  in  the  same  sense, 
where  he  substitutes  it  for  Bcnhadad  (Ant. ix, 8. 7,  com- 
pared with  2 Kings  xiii,  24).  See  also  Hadad-Kiji- 
mon. 

1.  Adad  (q.  v.)  is  the  indigenous  name  of  the  chief 
deity  of  the  Syrians,  the  sun,  according  to  Alacrobius 
(Saturnal.  i,  23).  Moreover.  Pliny  (Hist.  A" at.  xxxvii, 
11,71),  speaking  of  remarkable  stones  named  after  parts 
of  the  body,  mentions  some  called  “Adadunepliros,  cjus- 
dem  oculus  ac  digitus  dei ;”  and  adds,  “et  hie  colitur  a 
Syria.”  lie  is  also  called  "Acuicoc  fiaoiXtvg  6em>  by 
Philo  Byblius  (in  Ensebii  Pro? par.  Evan,  i,  10).  The 
passage  of  llesychius  which  Harduin  adduces  in  his 
note  to  Pliny  concerning  the  worship  of  this  god  by  the 
Phrygians,  Jablonski  declares  to  be  inadmissible  (De 
Ling.  Lycaonicu,  p.  64). 

1 his  Syrian  deity  claims  some  notice  here,  because 
bis  name  is  most  probably  an  clement  in  the  names  of 
the  Syrian  kings  Bcnhadad  and  lladadezer.  AI ore- 
over,  several  of  the  older  commentators  have  endeavored 
to  find  this  deity  in  Isa.  Lxvi,  17 ; either  by  altering  the 
l text  there  to  suit  the  name  given  by  Macrobius,  or  by 


HAD  AD 


7 


IIADAD-EZER 


adapting  the  name  he  gives  to  his  interpretation  and  to 
the  reading  of  the  Hebrew,  so  as  to  make  that  extract 
bear  testimony  to  a god  A chad  (q.  v.).  Michaelis  has 
argued  at  some  length  against  both  these  views;  and 
the  modern  commentators,  such  as  Gesenius,  Hitzig, 
Bdttclier  (in  Proben  Altest.  SchrifterMdr.),  and  Ewald, 
do  not  admit  the  name  of  any  deity  in  that  passage.— 
Kit  to. 

2.  Had  Ait  (q.  v.),  one  of  the  sons  of  Ishmael  (Gen. 
xxv,  15;  1 Chron.  i,  30).  His  descendants  probably 
occupied  the  western  coast  of  the  Persian  Gulf,  where 
the  names  Attcei  (Ptol.  vi,  7,  § 15),  A ttene,  and  Chateni 
(Plin.  vi,  32)  bear  affinity  to  the  original  name.— Smith. 
See  Arabia. 

3.  IIadad,  king  of  Edom,  the  son  of  Bcdad,  and  suc- 
cessor of  llusham : he  established  his  court  at  Avith, 
and  defeated  the  Midianites  in  the  intervening  territory 
of  Moab  (Gen.  xxxvi,  35;  1 Chron.  i,  4(5).  This  is  the 
only  one  of  the  ancient  kings  of  Edom  whose  exploits 
are  recorded  by  Moses.  B.C.  ante  1018.  See  Avith. 

4.  IIadad,  another  king  of  Edom,  successor  of  Baal- 
Hanon:  he  established  his  palace  at  Pai,  and  his  wife’s 
name  was  Mehetebel  (1  Chron.  i,  50).  He  is  called 
IIadar  in  Gen.  xxxvi,  39.  From  the  fact  that  with 
him  the  list  of  these  Edomitish  kings  closes,  it  may  be 
conjectured  (Turner’s  Comjxmion  to  Genesis,  p.  320)  that 
he  lived  about  the  time  of  the  Exode,  and  in  that  case 
he  may  be  the  identical  king  of  Edom  who  refused  a 
passage  to  the  Israelites  (Numb,  xx,  14).  B.C.  prob. 
1019 ; certainly  ante  1093.  See  Pai. 

5.  Adad,  a king  of  Syria,  who  reigned  in  Damascus 
at  the  time  that  David  attacked  and  defeated  Hadad- 
ezer,  king  of  Zobah,  whom  he  marched  to  assist,  and  in 
whose  defeat  he  shared.  B.C.  cir.  1049.  This  fact  is  re- 
corded in  2 Sam.  viii,  5,  but  the  name  of  the  king  is  not 
given.  It  is  supplied,  however,  by  Josephus  (.!«(.  vii, 
5,  2),  who  reports,  after  Nicolas  of  Damascus,  that  he 
carried  succors  to  Iladadezer  as  far  as  the  Euphrates, 
where  David  defeated  them  both ; and  adds  other  par- 
ticulars respecting  his  fame. — Kitto. 

6.  H adad,  a young  prince  of  the  royal  race  of  Edom, 

who,  when  his  country  was  conquered  by  David,  con- 
trived, in  the  heat  of  the  massacre  committed  by  Joab, 
to  escape  with  some  of  his  father’s  servants,  or,  rather, 
was  carried  off  by  them  into  the  land  of  Midian.  B.C. 
cir.  1040.  Thence  IIadad  went  into  the  desert  of  Pa- 
ran  (“Midian,"  ver.  18),  and  eventually  proceeded  to 
Egypt  (1  Kings  xi,  14  sq.;  in  ver.  17  the  name  is  given 
in  the  mutilated  form  TlX).  He  was  there  most  favor- 
ably received  by  the  king,  who  assigned  him  an  estate 
and  establishment  suited  to  his  rank,  and  even  gave 
him  in  marriage  the  sister  of  his  own  consort,  by  whom 
he  had  a son,  who  was  brought  up  in  the  palace  with 
the  sons  of  Pharaoh.  Hadad  remained  in  Egypt  till 
after  the  death  of  David  and  Joab,  when,  although  dis- 
suaded by  Pharaoh,  he  returned  to  his  own  country  in 
the  hope  of  recovering  his  father’s  throne  (1  Kings  xi, 
21,  22).  B.C.  cir.  1012.  The  Scripture  does  not  record 
the  result  of  this  attempt  further  than  by  mentioning 
him  as  one  of  the  troublers  of  Solomon’s  reign,  which 
implies  some  measure  of  success  (see  Kitto’s  Daily  Bible 
Illust.  ad  loc.).  After  relating  these  facts  the  text  goes 
on  to  mention  another  enemy  of  Solomon,  named  Rezin, 
and  then  adds  (ver.  25)  that  this  was  “ besides  the  mis- 
chief that  Hadad  did;  and  he  abhorred  Israel,  and 
reigned  over  Syria.”  Our  version  seems  to  make  this 
apply  to  Rezin ; but  the  Sept,  refers  it  to  Hadad,  read- 
ing Edom,  instead  of  D"iX,  Aram  or  Syria,  and 

the  sense  would  certainly  be  improved  by  this  reading, 
inasmuch  as  it  supplies  an  apparent  omission ; for  with- 
out it  we  only  know  that  Hadad  left  Egypt  for  Edom, 
and  not  how  he  succeeded  there,  or  how  he  was  able  to 
trouble  Solomon.  The  history  of  Hadad  is  certainly 
very  obscure.  Adopting  the  Sept,  reading,  some  con- 
clude that  Pharaoh  used  his  interest  with  Solomon  to 
allow  Hadad  to  reign  as  a tributary  prince,  and  that  he 


ultimately  asserted  his  independence.  Josephus,  how- 
ever, seems  to  have  read  the  Hebrew  as  our  version 
does,  “ Syria,”  not  “Edom.”  He  says  (.4 nt.  viii,  7,  (5) 
that  IIadad,  on  his  arrival  in  Edom,  found  the  ter- 
ritory too  strongly  garrisoned  by  Solomon’s  troops  to 
afford  any  hope  of  success.  lie  therefore  proceeded 
with  a party  of  adherents  to  Syria,  where  he  was  well 
received  by  Rezin,  then  at  the  head  of  a band  of  rob- 
bers, and  with  his  assistance  seized  upon  a part  of 
Syria  and  reigned  there.  If  this  be  correct,  it  must 
have  been  a different  part  of  Syria  from  that  in  which 
Rezin  himself  reigned,  for  it  is  certain,  from  ver.  24, 
that  he  (Rezin)  did  reign  in  Damascus.  Carrieres  sup- 
poses that  IIadad  reigned  in  Syria  after  the  death  of 
Rezin ; and  it  might  reconcile  apparent  discrepancies 
to  suppose  that  two  kingdoms  were  established  (there 
were  more  previously),  both  of  which,  after  the  death 
of  Rezin,  were  consolidated  under  IIadad.  That  Hadad 
was  really  king  of  Syria  seems  to  be  rather  corroborated 
by  the  fact  that  every  subsequent  king  of  Syria  is,  in 
the  Scripture,  called  Ben-1 1 adad,  “son  of  Hadad,”  and 
in  Josephus  simply  Hadad,  which  seems  to  denote  that 
the  founder  of  the  dynasty  was  called  by  this  name. 
We  may  observe  that,  whether  we  read  Aram  or  Edom, 
it  must  be  understood  as  applying  to  IIadad,  not  to  Re- 
zin {Pictorial  Bible,  on  2 Kings  xi,  14). — Kitto.  The 
identity  of  name  suggests  a common  origin  between 
the  Edomitish  and  Syrian  dynasties.  Josephus,  in  the 
outset  of  his  account,  appears  to  call  this  IIadad  by  the 
name  of  A der.  In  any  ease,  however,  the  preceding 
must  be  regarded  as  distinct  persons  from  each  other 
(see  1 1 engstenberg,  Pentateuch , ii,  288),  the  last  prob- 
ably being  the  son,  or,  rather,  grandson  of  No.  5.  See 
Syria. 

Hadad-e'zer  (Ilcb.  id.,  A dad  is  his  help 

[see  Hadad,  No.  1] ; Sept.  Adpak^ep  in  2 Sam.  viii,  but 
’Adapt'Zep  v.  r.  ’Aeaoi&p  in  i Kings  xi,23;  Vulg.  A dar- 
ezer  in  both  passages),  less  correctly  IIadare'zer  (lleb. 
id.,  [see  under  IIadad;  yet  some  MSS.  have 

Iladadezer  throughout] . 2 Sam.  x,  16,  19 , 1 Chron. 
xviii,3-10;  xix,  LG,  19;  Sept.  'Acpa^ap  v.  r.  AHpaa^ap, 
Vulg.  still  A darezer),  king  of  the  Aramitish  state  Zobah, 
a powerful  opponent  of  David.  He  was  defeated  by  the 
Israelites  in  his  first  campaign,  while  on  his  way  to  “ es- 
tablish his  dominion”  (B.C.  cir.  1035)  in  the  neighbor- 
hood of  the  Euphrates,  with  a great  loss  of  men,  war- 
ehariots,  and  horses,  and  was  despoiled  of  many  of  his 
towns  (2  Sara,  viii, 3 ; 1 Chron.  xviii,  3),  and  driven  with 
the  remnant  of  his  force  to  the  other  side  of  the  river 
(xix,  16).  The  golden  weapons  (— b'l3,  A.V.  “shields 
of  gold”)  captured  on  this  occasion,  a thousand  in  num- 
ber, were  taken  by  David  to  Jerusalem  (xviii,  7),  and 
dedicated  to  Jehovah.  The  foreign  arms  were  preserved 
in  the  Temple,  and  were  long  known  as  king  David  s 
(1  Chron.  xxiii,  9 ; Cant,  iv,  4).  A diversion  highly 
serviceable  to  him  was  made  by  a king  of  Damascene* 
Syria  [see  Hadad,  5],  who  compelled  David  to  turn 
his  arms  against  him  (2  Sam.  x,  6-14 ; 1 Chron.  xix, 
6-14).  The  breathing-time  thus  afforded  Iladadezer 
was  turned  by  him  to  such  good  account  that  he  was 
able  to  accept  the  subsidies  of  llanun,  king  of  the  Am- 
monites, and  to  take  a leading  part  in  the  confederacy 
formed  by  that  monarch  against  David.  B.C.  cir.  1034. 
The  first  army  brought  into  the  field  was  beaten  and 
pnt  to  flight  by  Abishai  and  Joab;  but  Iladadezer,  not 
yet  discouraged,  went  into  the  countries  east  of  the  Eu- 
phrates, and  got  together  the  forces  of  all  his  allies  and 
tributaries,  which  he  placed  under  the  command  of  Sho- 
bach,  his  general.  The  army  was  a large  one,  as  is  evi- 
dent from  the  numbers  of  the  slain ; and  it  was  espe- 
cially strong  in  horse-soldiers  (1  Chron.  xix,  18).  They 
crossed  the  Euphrates,  joined  the  other  Syrians,  and  en- 
camped at  a place  called  Ilelam  (q.  v.).  To  confront  so 
formidable  an  array,  David  took  the  field  in  person,  and 
in  one  great  victory  so  completely  broke  the  power  of 


8 


HADDOCK 


IIADAD-RDDION 

Iladadezer,  that  all  the  small  tributary  princes  seized 
the  opportunity  of  throwing  off  his  yoke,  of  abandoning 
the  Ammonites  to  their  fate,  and  of  submitting  quietly 
to  David,  whose  power  was  thus  extended  to  the  Eu- 
phrates (2  Sam.  x,  15-19;  2 Chron.  xix,  15-19). 

Itut  one  of  Iladarezcr’s  more  immediate  retainers, 
Kf./.on  ben-Eliadah,  made  his  escape  trom  the  army, 
and,  gathering  round  him  some  fugitives  like  himself, 
formed  them  into  one  of  those  marauding,  ravaging 
“bands”  ("i1"!3)  which  found  a congenial  refuge  in  the 
thinly  peopled  districts  between  the  Jordan  and  the 
Euphrates  (2  Kings  v,2:  I Chron.  v,  18-22).  Making 
their  way  to  Damascus,  they  possessed  themselves  of 
tire  city.  Il.C.  eir.  9*0.  Kezon  became  king,  and  at 
once  began  to  avenge  the  l«<ss  of  his  countrymen  by  the 
course  of  mischief”  to  Israel  which  he  pursued  down 
to  the  end  of  Solomon’s  reign,  and  which  is  summed  up 
in  the  emphatic  words,  “lie  was  an  adversary  (a  ‘Sa- 
tan’) to  Israel”  ....  “he  abhorred  Israel’  (1  Kings  xi, 
23-25) Kitto;  Smith. 

Ha'dad-rim'mon  (Ileb.  Ifadad’-Rimmon ',  “t  jh 
the  names  of  two  Syrian  idols;  Sept.  KorctTuq 
powi'oc,Vidg.  Adadremmon),  the  name  of  a place  in  the 
valley  of  Megiddo,  alluded  to  in  Zech.  xii,  11  as  a type 
of  the  future  penitence  of  the  Jews;  probably  by  a pro- 
verbial expression  from  the  lamentation  for  Josiah,who 
was  mortally  wounded  not  far  from  this  spot  (2  Chron. 
xxxv,  22-25).  (There  is  a treatise  by  Wichmanshau- 
scn.  1/e  planet  it  lladadr,  in  the  Nov.  Thes.  Theol.-phil.  i, 
1101 ; exegetical  remarks  on  the  same  text  have  also 
been  written  in  Dutch  bvYermast  [Honda,  1792, 1794], 
in  Herman  by  Mauritii  [ Host.  1704.  1772],  and  in  Latin 
by  Froricp  [ Erf.  177G].)  According  to  Jerome  (Com- 
ment. on  Zed.  1.  c.  and  Has.  i),  it  was  afterwards  called 
Marimianopolis  (sec  Belaud,  Pahvst.  p.  891),  which,  ac- 
cording to  the  Jerus.  I tin .,  lay  17  Bom.  miles  from  Caesa- 
rea, and  10  from  Esdraelon ; being  situated,  according 
to  Dr.  Bobinson  (new  ed.  of  Researches,  iii,  118),  a little 
south  of  Megiddo  (now  Lejjun)  (see  Bibliotheca  Sacra, 
1814,  p.  220).  The  name  has  been  thought  to  be  de- 
rived from  the  worship  of  the  idol  Iladad-rimmon  (Jlit- 
zig  on  Isa.  xvii,  9;  Movers,  Rhun.  p.  297) ; but,  accord- 
ing to  the  Targum  of  Jonathan  (followed  by  Jarchi),  it 
is  an  ellipsis  for  Iludad,  son  of  Tab-nma/ow,  the  alleged 
opponent  of  Ahab  at  Bamotb-Hilead.  As  it  contains 
t lie  names  of  two  principal  Syrian  deities,  it  may  have 
been  an  old  Syrian  stronghold,  and  hence  Josiah  may 
here  have  made  his  last  stand  in  defence  of  the  plain  of 
Esdraelon.  Such  a site,  therefore,  does  not  ill  agree 
with  the  position  of  the  modern  Ruminaneh,  a village 
“at  the  foot  of  the  Megiddo  hills,  in  a notch  or  valley 
about  1 1 hour  S.  of  tell  Metzellim”  (Yan  dc  Yelde,  Me- 
moir, p.  333 ; comp.  Narrative,  i,  355;  I)e  Sauley,  Dead 
Sea,  ii,31 1).  Schwarz’s  attempt  ( Palest . p.  1 59)  to  iden- 
tify 1 ladad-Bimmon  with  Hath-Bimmon  of  Josh,  xxi, 
25,  as  the  Kefar  1'thni  of  the  Talmud  ((lift in,  lhl.  7(5, 
a),  and  a present  Kafer  Hath,  said  by  him  to  lie  located 
about  21  miles  from  Lejjun,  beyond  Scpphoris,  is  with- 
out foundation. 

Ha'dar,  a various  reading  of  two  lleb.  names.  See 
also  Hts-JIadar. 

1.  Ciiadaic'  (“TH,  perhaps  chamber  ; Sept.  XocSctv ; 
Yulg.  l/adar),  a son  of  Ishmacl  (Hen.  xxv,  15);  writ- 
ten in  I Chron.  i.  30 ,Chadad'  (“Tin,  Xovcuv,  Iludad ); 
but  Hesenius  supposes  the  former  to  be  the  true  reading 
of  the  name.  It  has  not.  been  identified,  in  a satisfac- 
tory way,  with  the  appellation  of  any  tribe  or  place  in 
Arabia,  or  on  the  Syrian  frontier;  hut  names  identical 
with,  or  very  closely  resembling  it,  are  not  uncommon 
in  those  parts,  and  may  contain  traces  of  the  lshmacl- 
itish  tribe  sprung  from  lladar.  The  mountain  Iludad, 
belonging  to  Toy  mil  [see  Ti.ma  |.  on  the  borders  of  the 
Syrian  desert,  north  of  cl-Mcdineh,  is  perhaps  the  most 
likely  to  be  correctly  identitied  with  the  ancient  dwell- 
ings of  this  tribe;  it  stands  among  a group  of  names 


of  the  sons  of  Ishmacl,  containing  Dumah,  Kedar,  and 
Tema. — Smith,  s.  v.  See  Hadad,  2. 

2.  Had  Alt'  (T"trt,  peril,  ornament ; Sept.  'A  oat)  v.  r. 
’ApciS ; Yulg.  A ilar),  one  of  the  Edomitish  kings,  suc- 
cessor of  Baal-Hanan  bcn-Aclibor  (Gen.xxxvi,39) ; and, 
if  we  may  so  understand  the  statement  of  ver.  31,  about 
contemporary  with  Saul.  The  name  of  his  city,  and 
the  name  and  genealogy  of  his  wife,  are  given.  In  the 
parallel  list  in  1 Chron.  i,  he  appears  as  IIadad.  We 
know  from  another  source  (1  Kings  xi,  14,  etc.)  that 
IIadad  was  one  of  the  names  of  the  royal  family  of 
Edom.  Indeed,  it  occurs  in  this  very  list  (Gen.  xxxvi, 
35). — Smith,  s.  v.  See  IIadad,  4. 

Hadare'zer,  the  form  of  the  name  of  the  town 
mentioned  in  the  account  of  David’s  Syrian  campaign, 
as  given  in  2 Sam.  x,  and  in  all  its  occurrences  in  the 
Hell,  text  (as  well  as  in  both  MSS.  of  the  Sept,  and  in 
Josephus),  except  2 Sam.  viii,  3-12 ; 1 Kings  xi,  23, 
where  it  is  more  correctly  called  Hadadezek  (q.  v.). 

Hadas.  See  Myrtle. 

Had'ashah  (Ileb.  Chetdashah’,  rvr'in,  new ; Sept. 
’A Sava  v.  r.  ’Acaadv),  a city  in  tbe  valley  of  Judah, 
mentioned  in  the  second  group  between  Zenan  and  Mig- 
dal-gad  (Josh.  xv,37).  It  has  generally  been  thought 
(Winer,  Realm,  s.  v.)  to  be  the  same  with  the  Adasa 
(Adaou)  of  Josephus  (Ant.  xii,  10,  5)  and  the  Apocry- 
pha (1  Macc.  vii,40, 45),  and  likewise  of  the  Onomusti- 
con  (s.  v.),  which,  however,  must  have  lain  rather  in  the 
mountains  of  Ephraim,  apparently  near  the  modem  vil- 
lage Surda.  See  Adasa.  Schwarz  {Phys.  Descript,  of 
Pul.  p.  103)  inclines  to  identify  it  with  a little  village 
el-Chadas,  stated  by  him  to  lie  between  Migdal  and 
Aslikelon,  t he  el-Jora  of  Yan  de  Yel tic’s  M op.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Mishna  (Erub.  v,  G),  it  anciently  contained 
50  houses  only  (Reland,  Fulcest.  p.  701).  See  Judah, 
Tribe  ok 

Hadas'sall  (Ileb. Uadassah',  HS'in,  myrtle;  comp, 
the  Hr.  names  Myrto,  etc. ; Sept,  omits,  Yulg.  Edissa), 
the  earlier  Jewish  name  of  Esther  (Esth.  ii,7).  Ge- 
senius  (Thesaur.  p.  3G.G)  suggests  that  it  is  identical 
with  * Arocca , the  name  of  the  daughter  of  Cyrus  (lie- 
rod.  iii.  133, 134). 

Hadat'tali  (Ileb.  Chadattah' , iiPi’i’n. a Chaldaizing 
form  =new ; Sept,  omits,  Yulg.  nova),  according  to  the 
A.Y.  one  of  the  towns  of  Judah  in  the  extreme  south — 
“Hazor,  Iladattah,  and  Kerioth,and  Ilezron,”etc.  (Josh, 
xv,  25) ; hut  the  Masoretic  accents  of  the.  Hebrew  con- 
nect the  word  with  that  preceding  it,  as  if  it  were  Ila- 
zor-chadattah,  i.  e.  New  Ilazor,  in  distinction  from  the 
place  of  the  same  name  in  ver.  23.  This  reading  is  ex- 
] iressly  sanctioned  by  Eusebius  and  Jerome,  who  speak 
(Onomast.  s.  v.  Asor)  of  “New  Ilazor”  as  lying  in  their 
day  to  the  east  of  and  near  Asealon.  (Sec  also  Belaud, 
Pulwst . p.  708.)  But  Ascalon,  as  Robinson  has  pointed 
out  (Researches,  new  ed.  ii,  34,  note),  is  in  the  Shefelah, 
and  not.  in  the  south,  and  would,  if  named  in  Joshua  at 
all,  he  included  in  the  second  division  of  the  list,  begin- 
ning at  ver.  33,  instead  of  where  it  is,  not  far  from  Ke- 
desli.— Smith,  s.  v.  Still  the  total  (29)  in  ver.  32  re- 
quires as  much  abbreviation  in  the  enumerated  list  of 
cities  in  this  group  as  possible.  See  IIazor-IIadattah. 

Haddali.  See  En-iiaddah. 

Haddock,  (’has.  I?.,  D.D.,  a Congregational  min- 
ister, was  born  in  Salisbury,  N.  II.,  in  the  summer  of 
1796.  He  graduated  at  Dartmouth  College  in  181 G. 
Immediately  after  graduating,  lie  entered  Andover  The- 
ological Seminary,  where  he  remained  two  years.  He 
was  then  compelled  to  desist  from  his  studies,  and  made 
a journey  to  the  South.  He  returned  in  1819  invigora- 
ted in  health,  and  was  at  once  chosen  the  first  professor 
of  rhetoric  in  Dartmouth  College,  which  position  he 
held  till  1838,  when  lie  was  chosen  professor  of  intel- 
lectual philosophy.  In  1850  he  received  the  appoint- 
ment of  charge  d’affaires  at  the  court  of  Portugal,  which 


HADES 


9 


HADES 


he  held  till  1855.  He  spent  the  remainder  of  his  life  at 
West  Lebanon.  For  about  twelve  years  he  preached  at 
White  River  Village,  Vt.,  and  for  several  years  he  sup- 
plied the  pulpit  at  the  upper  and  lower  churches  of 
Norwich,  Vt.  For  a year  or  two  he  preached  at  West 
Lebanon,  and  for  the  last  two  years  and  a half  of  his  life 
he  preached  at  Queechy  village,  Vt.  lie  died  at  West 
Lebanon,  N.  II.,  Jan.  15,  1861.  As  a preacher  he  was 
always  acceptable,  and  never  more  so  than  during  the 
last  year  of  his  life. — Congregational  Quarterly , 1861,  p. 
213.' 

Hades,  a Greek  word  (yegg,  derived,  according  to 
the  best  established  and  most  generally  received  ety- 
mology, from  privative  a and  idtiv,  hence  often  written 
didgg),  means  strictly  irhat  is  out  of  sight,  or  possibly,  if 
applied  to  a person,  what  j)uts  out  of  sight.  In  earlier 
Greek  this  last  was,  if  not  its  only,  at  least  its  prevailing 
application;  in  Homer  it  occurs  only  as  the  personal 
designation  of  Pluto,  the  lord  of  the  invisible  world,  and 
who  was  probably  so  designated— not  from  being  him- 
self invisible,  for  that  belonged  to  him  in  common  with 
the  heathen  gods  generally — but  from  his  power  to  ren- 
der mortals  invisible — the  invisible-making  deity  (see 
Crusius,  Homeric  Lexicon , s.  v.).  The  ( Ireeks,  however, 
in  process  of  time  abandoned  this  use  of  hades , and  when 
the  Greek  Scriptures  were  written  the  word  was  scarce- 
ly ever  applied  except  to  the  place  of  the  departed.  In 
the  classical  writers,  therefore,  it  is  used  to  denote  Or- 
cus , or  the  infernal  regions.  In  the  Greek  version  of 
the  Old  Testament  it  is  the  common  rendering  for  the 
Heb.  ViX'j,  sheol,  though  in  the  form  there  often  ap- 
pears a remnant  of  the  original  personified  application ; 
for  example,  in  Gen.  xxxvii,35,  “ I will  go  down  to  my 
son,”  tig  iicov , i.  e.  into  the  abodes  or  house  of  hades 
(Sofioug  or  olnov  being  understood).  This  elliptical 
form  was  common  both  in  the  classics  and  in  Scripture, 
even  after  hades  was  never  thought  of  but  as  a region 
or  place  of  abode. 

1.  The  appropriation  of  hades  by  the  Greek  interpret- 
ers as  an  equivalent  for  slieol  may  undoubtedly  be  taken 
as  evidence  that  there  was  a close  agreement  in  the 
ideas  conveyed  by  the  two  terms  as  currently  under- 
stood by  the  Greeks  and  Hebrews  respectively — a sub- 
stantial, but  not  an  entire  agreement ; for  in  this,  as  well 
as  in  other  terms  which  related  to  subjects  bearing  on 
things  spiritual  and  divine,  the  different  religions  of 
Jew  and  Gentile  necessarily  exercised  a modifying  in- 
fluence; so  that  even  when  the  same  term  was  employ- 
ed, and  with  reference  generally  to  the  same  thing, 
shades  of  difference  could  not  but  exist  in  respect  to 
the  ideas  understood  to  be  indicated  by  them.  Two  or 
three  points  stand  prominently  out  in  the  views  enter- 
tained by  the  ancients  respecting  hades:  first,  that  it 
was  the  common  receptacle  of  departed  spirits,  of  good 
as  well  as  bad ; second,  that  it  was  divided  into  two 
compartments,  the  one  containing  an  Elysium  of  bliss 
for  the  good,  the  other  a Tartarus  of  sorrow  and  punish- 
ment for  the  wicked;  and,  thirdly,  that  in  respect  to  its 
locality,  it  lay  under  ground,  in  the  mid-regions  of  the 
earth.  So  far  as  these  points  are  concerned,  there  is  no 
material  difference  between  the  Greek  hades  and  the 
Hebrew  sheol.  This,  too,  was  viewed  as  the  common 
receptacle  of  the  departed:  patriarchs  and  righteous 
men  spoke  of  going  into  it  at  their  decease,  and  the 
most  ungodly  and  worthless  characters  are  represented 
as  finding  in  it  their  proper  home  (Gen.  xlii,  38 ; Psa. 
cxxxix,  8;  llos.  xiii,  14;  Isa.  xiv,  9,  etc.).  A twofold  di- 
vision also  in  the  state  of  the  departed,  corresponding 
to  the  different  positions  they  occupied,  and  the  courses 
they  pursued  on  earth,  is  clearly  implied  in  the  revela- 
tions of  .Scripture  on  the  subject,  though  with  the  He- 
brews less  prominently  exhibited,  and  without  any  of 
the  fantastic  and  puerile  inventions  of  heathen  mythol- 
ogy. Yet  the  fact  of  a real  distinction  in  the  state  of 
the  departed,  corresponding  to  their  spiritual  conditions  I 
on  earth,  is  in  various  passages  not  obscurely  indicated. 


Divine  retribution  is  represented  as  pursuing  the  wicked 
after  they  have  left  this  world — pursuing  them  even 
into  the  lowest  realms  of  sheol  (Dent,  xxxii,  22;  Amos 
ix,  2) ; and  the  bitterest  shame  and  humiliation  are  de- 
scribed as  awaiting  there  the  most  prosperous  of  this 
world’s  inhabitants,  if  they  have  abused  their  prosper- 
ity to  the  dishonor  of  God  and  the  injury  of  their  fel- 
low-men (Psa.  xlix,  14,  Isa.  xiv).  On  the  other  hand, 
the  righteous  had  hope  in  his  death ; he  could  rest  as- 
sured that,  in  the  viewless  regions  of  sheol , as  well  as 
amid  the  changing  vicissitudes  of  earth,  the  right  hand 
of  God  would  sustain  him;  even  there  he  would  enter 
into  peace,  walking  still,  as  it  were,  in  bis  uprightness 
(Prov.  xiv,  32 ; Psa.  cxxxix. 8 ; Isa.  lvii,2).  That  sheol, 
like  hades,  was  conceived  of  as  a lower  region  in  com- 
parison with  the  present  world,  is  so  manifest  from  the 
whole  language  of  Scripture  on  the  subject,  that  it  is 
unnecessary  to  point  to  particular  examples;  in  respect 
to  the  good  as  well  as  the  bad,  the  passage  into  sheol 
was  contemplated  as  a descent ; and  the  name  was  some- 
times used  as  a synonym  for  the  very  lowest  depths 
(Dent,  xxxii,  22;  Job  xi,  7-9).  This  is  not,  however, 
to  be  understood  as  affirming  anything  of  the  actual  lo- 
cality of  disembodied  spirits ; for  there  can  be  no  doubt 
that  the  language  here,  as  in  other  cases,  was  derived 
from  the  mere  appearances  of  things ; and  as  the  body  at 
death  was  committed  to  the  lower  parts  of  the  earth,  so 
the  soul  was  conceived  of  as  also  going  downwards.  Rut 
that  this  was  not  designed  to  mark  the  local  boundaries 
of  the  region  of  departed  spirits  may  certainly  be  in- 
ferred from  other  expressions  used  regarding  them—  as 
that  God  took  them  to  himself ; or  that  he  would  give 
them  to  see  the  path  of  life;  that  he  would  make  them 
dwell  in  his  house  forever;  or,  more  generally  still,  that 
the  spirit  of  a man  goeth  upwards  (Gen.  v,  24 ; Psa.  xvi, 
11;  xxiii,  6;  Ecclcs.  iii,  21  ; xii,  7).  During  the  old  dis- 
pensations there  was  still  no  express  revelation  from 
heaven  respecting  the  precise  condition  or  external  re- 
lationships of  departed  spirits;  the  time  had  not  yet 
come  for  such  specific  intimations ;.  and  the  language 
employed  was  consequently  of  a somewhat  vague  and 
vacillating  nature,  such  as  spontaneously  arose  from 
common  feelings  and  impressions.  For  the  same  rea- 
son, the  ideas  entertained  even  by  God’s  people  upon  the 
subject  were  predominantly  sombre  and  gloomy.  >Sheol 
wore  no  inviting  aspect  to  their  view,  no  more  than 
hades  to  the  superstitious  heathen ; the  very  men  who 
believed  that  God  would  accompany  them  thither  and 
keep  them  from  evil,  contemplated  the  state  as  one  of 
darkness  and  silence,  and  shrunk  from  it  with  instinctive 
horror,  or  gave  hearty  thanks  when  the)'  found  them- 
selves for  a time  delivered  from  it  (Psa.  vi,  5;  xxx,  3, 
9;  Job  iii,  13  sq. ; Isa.  xxxviii,  18).  The  reason  was 
that  they  had  only  general  assurances,  but  no  specific 
light  on  the  subject ; and  tbeir  comfort  rather  lay  in 
overleaping  the  gulf  of  sheol,  and  fixing  their  thoughts 
on  the  better  resurrection  some  time  to  come,  than  in 
anything  they  could  definitely  promise  themselves  be- 
tween death  and  the  resurrection-morn. 

In  this  lay  one  important  point  of  difference  between 
the  Jewish  and  the  heathen  hades,  originated  by  the 
diverse  spirit  of  the  two  religions,  that  to  the  believing 
Hebrew  alone  the  sojourn  in  sheol  appeared,  that  only 
of  a temporary  and  intermediate  existence.  The  hea- 
then had  no  prospect  beyond  its  sbadowv  realms;  its 
bars  for  him  were  eternal;  and  the  idea  of  a resurrec- 
tion was  utterly  strange  alike  to  his  religion  and  his 
philosophy.  But  it  was  in  connection  with  the  pros- 
pect of  a resurrection  from  the  dead  that  all  hope  form- 
ed itself  in  the  breasts  of  the  true  people  of  God.  As 
this  alone  could  effect  the  reversion  ot  the  evil  brought 
in  by  sin,  and  really  destroy  the  destroyer,  so  nothing 
less  was  announced  in  that  lirst  promise  which  gave  as- 
surance of  the  crushing  of  the  tempter : and  though  as  to 
its  nature  but  dimly  apprehended  by  the  eye  of  faith,  it 
still  necessarily  formed,  as  to  the  reality,  the  great  ob- 
ject of  desire  and  expectation.  Hence  it  is  said  of  the 


HADES 


10 


HADES 


' an  abode  where  angels  visit.  With  this  also  agrees  what 


Iwavenlvone;  and  ot  those  Who  in  later  times  iiMsivu  ■ - ; J ...  ° ~ 

..bll,  for  the  truth  of  < Jod,  that  they  did  it  to  oh-  dead,  when  on  the  eve  of  Ins  departing  thither-** To- 
T ' resurrection  < 1 Id,,  xi.  If,,  do).  1 lence,  too,  day,”  said  he,  in  his  reply  to  the  prayer  of  the  penitent 
lie  soirit  of  propheev  contidentlv  proclaimed  the  arrival  malefactor,  " shalt  thou  he  with  me  in  paradise”  (Luke 
ll(  d 1 * 1 . • . . , ■ x j.a'i  Ttnt  nnmdise  was  the  lmmer  renron  of  life 


nut  riirehs  that  tliev  looked  for  a hotter  country,  which  is  ' .1 . - 

» ‘ of  111"*  who  in  Inter  tin,™  rolled  out  Lord  said  of  lits  own  temporary  yum  among  the 

unto 
tain  a 

^CX^S’shmdil'a^amrsingrwlien  xxiii,43)  ' But  paradise  was  the  proper  region  of  life 
slloll],i  be  dent  roved,  and  manv  of  its  inmates  and  blessing,  not  of  gloom  and  forgetfulness ; originally 
he  br, audit  forth  to  the  possession  of  everlasting  life  it  was  the  home  and  heritage  of  man  as  created  m the 
a xxvi  !«)■  llos  xiii  14;  Dan.  xii,  2).  Yet  again,  image  of  God;  and  when  Christ  now  named  the  place 
i,V  nisHtolic  times,  Paul  represents  this  as  emphatically  whither  he  was  going  with  a redeemed  sinner  paradise, 
the  nromise  made  hv  (iod  to  the  fathers,  to  the  realiza-  it  bespoke  that  already  there  was  an  undoing  of  the 
t ion  of  which  his  countrymen  as  with  one  heart  were  evil  of  sin,  that  for  all  who  are  Christ’s  there  is  an  actual 
hoi, im'  to  come  (\cts  xxvi,  7);  and  Josephus,  in  like  recovery  immediately  after  death,  and  as  regards  the 
manner  testifies  of  all  but  the  small  Sadducjcan  faction  better  part  of  their  natures,  of  what  was  lost  by  the  dis- 
of  that  thev  believed  in  a resurrection  to  honor  obedience  and  ruin  of  the  fall.  See  Paradise. 

•md  blessing  for  those  who  had  lived  righteously  in  this  But  was  not  Christ  himself  in  hades  ? Did  not  the 
life  ( | tit  xviii  1 3).  This  hope  necessarily  cast  a apostle  Peter  on  the  day  of  Pentecost  apply  to  him  the 
gleam  of  li-dit,  across  the  darkness  of  /unies  for  the  Is-  words  of  David  in  Psa.  xvi,  in  which  it  was  said,  “ Thou 
raclite  which  was  altogether  unknown  to  the  Greek,  wilt  not  leave  my  soul  in  hades,  neither  wilt  thou  suffer 
Closelv  connected  with  it  was  another  difference  also  thine  Holy  One  to  see  corruption,”  and  argue  apparent- 
of  considerable  moment,  viz.,  that  the  Hebrew  sheol  was  ly  that  the  soul  of  Christ  must  have  indeed  gone  to 
not  like  the  Gentile  funks,  viewed  as  an  altogether  sep-  hades,  hut  only  could  not  be  allowed  to  continue  there 
aratc  ami  independent  region,  withdrawn  from  the  pri-  (Acts  ii,  27-31)?  Even  so,  however,  it  would  hut  cou- 
mal  fountain  of  life,  and  subject  to  another  dominion  cem  the  application  of  a name;  for  if  the  language  of 
than  the  world  of  sense  and  time.  Pluto  was  ever  re-  the  apostle  must  he  understood  as  implying  that  our 
garded  by  the  heathen  as  the  rival  of  the  king  of  earth  Lord’s  soul  was  in  hades  between  death  and  the  resur- 
aml  heaven;  the  two  domains  wore  essentially  antago-  rection,  it  still  was  hades  as  having  a paradise  within 
uistic.  But  to  the  more  enlightened  Hebrew  there  was  its  bosom ; so  that,  knowing  from  his  own  lips  what  sort 
but  one  Ix,rd  of  the  living  and  the  dead;  the  chambers  of  a receptacle  it  afforded  to  the  disembodied  spirit  of 
of  she,d  were  as  much  open  to  his  eye  and  subject  to  his  Jesus,  we  need  care  little  about  the  mere  name  by  which, 
control  as  the  bodies  and  habitations  of  men  on  earth;  in  a general  way,  it  might  he  designated.  But  the 
so  that  to  go  into  the  realms  of  the  deceased  was  but  to  apostle  Peter,  it  must  he  remembered,  does  not  call  it 
pass  from  one  department  to  another  of  the  same  all-  hades;  he  merely  quotes  an  Old-Testament  passage,  in 
embracing  sway  of  Jehovah.  See  Sheol.  ’ ^ * 1 *'*'"*'  X'“A 

2.  Snell  was  the  general  state  of  belief  and  expecta- 


wliicli  hades  is  mentioned,  as  a passage  that  had  its  ver- 
ification in  Christ;  and  the  language  of  course  in  this, 
tion  regarding  hades  or  shed  in  Old-Testament  times,  as  in  other  prophetical  passages,  was  spoken  from  an 
With  the  introduction  of  the  Gospel  a new  light  breaks  Old-Testament  point  of  view,  and  must  be  read  in  the 
iu,  which  shoots  its  rays  also  through  the  realms  of  the  light  which  the  revelations  of  the  Gospel  have  cast  over 
departed,  and  relieves  the  gloom  in  which  they  had  still  the  state  and  prospects  of  the  souL  We  may  even, 
appeared  shrouded  to  the  view  of  the  faithful.  The  however,  go  farther;  for  the  Psalmist  himself  docs  not 
term  hades,  however,  is  of  comparatively  rare  occurrence  strictly  affirm  the  soul  of  the  Holy  One  to  have  gone  to 
in  Now-Testament  scripture:  in  our  Lord’s  own  dis-  hades ; his  words  precisely  rendered  are, “ Thou  wilt  not 
courses  it  is  found  only  thrice,  and  on  two  of  the  occa-  leave  (or  abandon)  my  soul  to  hades ” — that  is,  give  it 
sinus  it  is  used  in  a somewhat  rhetorical  manner,  by  up  as  a prey  to  the  power  or  domain  of  the  nether  world, 
way  of  contrast  with  the  region  of  life  and  blessing.  He  It  is  rather  a negative  than  a positive  assertion  regard- 
said  of  Capernaum,  that  from  being  exalted  unto  heaven  ing  our  Lord’s  connection  with  hades  that  is  contained 
it  should  he  brought  down  to  hades  (Matt,  xi,  23) — that  in  the  passage,  and  nothing  can  fairly  he  argued  from 
is,  plainly,  from  the  highest  point  of  fancied  or  of  real  it  as  to  the  local  habitation  or  actual  state  of  his  disem- 


devatiou  to  the  lowest  abasement.  Of  that  spiritual 
kingdom,  also,  or  church,  which  he  was  giving  to  estab- 
lish on  earth,  lie  affirmed  that  “ the  gates  of  hades  should 
not  prevail  against  it”  (Matt,  xvi,  IS),  which  is  all  one 
with  saying  that  it  should  he  perpetual.  Hades  is  con- 


bodied  spirit.  See  Intermediate  State. 

The  only  other  passages  in  the  New  Testament  in 
which  mention  is  made  of  hades  are  in  Revelation — eh. 
i,  18,  where  the  glorified  Redeemer  declares  that  he  has 
the  keys  of  death  and  of  hades;  eh.  vi,  8,  where  death 


templatei]  as  a kind  of  realm  or  kingdom,  accustomed,  is  symbolized  as  a rider,  smiting  all  around  him  with 
like  earthly  kingdoms  in  the  East,  to  hold  its  council-  weapons  of  destruction,  and  hades  following  to  receive 
chamber  at  the  gates;  and  whatever  measures  might  the  souls  of  the  slain;  ch.  xx,  13, 14,  where  death  and 
there  he  taken,  whatever  plots  devised,  they  should  nev-  hades  are  both  represented  as  giving  up  the  dead  that 
or  succeed  in  overturning  the  foundations  of  Christ’s  were  in  them,  and  afterwards  as  being  themselves  cast 
kingdom,  or  effectually  marring  its  interests.  In  both  into  the  lake  of  fire,  which  is  the  second  death.  In  ev- 
these  passages  hades  is  placed  by  our  Lord  in  an  antng-  cry  one  of  these  passages  hades  stands  in  a dark  and  for- 
oiiistic  relation  to  his  cause  among  men,  although,  from  bidding  connection  with  death — very  unlike  that  asso- 
tho  manner  iu  which  the  word  is  employed,  no  very  ciation  with  paradise  and  Abraham’s  bosom  in  which 
definite  conclusions  could  he  drawn  from  them  as  to  the  our  Lord  exhibited  the  receptacle  of  his  own  and  his 
nature  ami  position  of  hades  itself.  But  iu  another  pas-  people’s  souls  to  the  eye  of  faith;  and  not  only  so,  hut 
sage  the  only  one  in  which  any  indication  is  given  by  in  one  of  them  it  is  expressly  as  an  ally  of  death  in  the 
uiir  Lord  of  the  state  of  its  inhabitants — it  is  most  dis-  execution  of  judgment  that  hades  is  represented,  while 
tinetly  and  closely  associated  with  the  doom  and  misery  in  another  it  appears  as  an  accursed  thing,  consigned  to 
of  the  lost : In  funks,"  it  is  said  of  the  rich  man  in  the  the  lake  of  fire.  In  short,  it  seems  as  if  in  the  progress 
parable,  “ he  lifted  up  his  eyes,  being  in  torments”  (Luke  of  God’s  dispensations  a separation  had  come  to  he  made 
xvi,  23).  The  soul  of  Lazarus  is,  no  doubt,  also  ropre-  between  elements  that  originally  were  mingled  together 
united  as  being  so  far  within  the  hounds  of  the  same  —as  if,  from  the  time  that  Christ  brought  life  and  im- 
region  that  lie  could  be  descried  and  spoken  with  by  mortality  to  light,  the  distinction  in  the  next  world  as 
the  sufferer.  Still,  he  was  represented  as  sharing  no  well  as  "this  was  broadened  between  the  saved  and  the 
common  fate  with  the  other,  hut  as  occupying  a region  lost ; so  that  hades  was  henceforth  appropriated,  both  in 
shut  off  from  all  intercommunion  with  that  assigned  to  the  name  and  in  the  reality,  to  those  who  were  to  be  re- 
the  wicked,  and,  so  far  from  being  held  iu  a sort  of  dun-  served  in  darkness  and  misery  to  the  judgment  of  the 
geoiwonfinemeiit,  as  reposing  in  Abraham’s  bosom,  in  , great  day,  and  other  names,*  with  other  and  brighter 


HADES 


11 


IIADORAM 


ideas,  were  employed  to  designate  the  intermediate  rest-  | 
ing-place  of.  the  redeemed.  It  was  meet  that  it  should 
be  so;  for  by  the  personal  work  and  mediation  of  Christ 
the  whole  Church  of  God  rose  to  a higher  condition; 
old  things  passed  away,  all  things  bceatne  new;  and  it 
is  but  reasonable  to  suppose  that  the  change  in  some 
degree  extended  to  the  occupants  of  the  intermediate 
state— the  saved  becoming  more  enlarged  in  the  posses- 
sion of  bliss  and  glory,  the  lost  more  sunk  in  anguish 
and  despair.  See  Death. 

3.  Such  being  the  nature  of  the  scriptural  representa- 
tion on  the  subject,  one  must  not  only  condemn  the  fa- 
bles that  sprung  up  amid  the  dark  ages  about  the  lim- 
bus or  antechamber  of  hell,  and  the  purgatorial  fires, 
through  which  it  w:-.s  supposed  even  redeemed  souls  had 
to  complete  their  ripening  for  glory,  but  also  reject  the 
form  in  which  the  Church  has  embodied  its  beliet  re- 
specting the  personal  history  of  Christ,  when  it  said 
“descended  into  hell.”  This,  it  is  well  known,  was  a 
later  addition  to  what  has  been  called  the  Apostles’ 
Creed,  made  when  the  Church  was  far  on  its  wav  to  the 
gloom  and  superstition  of  the  Dark  Ages.  Though  the 
words  are  capable  ol  a rational  and  scriptural  explana- 
tion, yet  they  do  not  present  the  place  and  character  of 
onr  Lord’s  existence  in  the  intermediate  state  as  these 
are  exhibited  by  himself ; they  suggest  something  pain- 
ful, rather  than,  as  it  should  he,  blessed  and  triumphant ; 
and,  if  taken  in  their  natural  sense,  they  would  rob  be- 
lievers of  that  sure  hope  of  ail  immediate  transition  into 
mansions  of  glory,  which,  as  Iris  followers  and  partici- 
pants of  his  risen  life,  it  is  their  privilege  to  entertain. 
— Fairhairn,  s.  v.  See  Hell. 

4.  There  are  two  other  terms  so  often  associated  in 
Scripture  with  hades  as  to  render  their  signification  in 
some  measure  synonymous. 

(1.)  Abyss  (dl3vff<7og  = dj3v9oc,  without  bottom ).  The 
Sept,  uses  this  word  to  represent  three  different  Hebrew 
words:  1.  a depth  or  deep  place  (Job  xli,  23); 

or  the  deep,  the  sea  (Isa.  xliv,  27).  2. 

breadth,  a broad  place  (Job  xxxvi,  16).  3.  ainr,  a mass 
of  waters,  the  sea  (Gen.  viii,  2,  etc.),  the  chaotic  mass  of 
waters  (Gen.  i,  2 ; l’sa.  eiv,  6),  the  subterraneous  waters, 
“the  deep  that  lieth  under”  (Gen.  xlix,  25),  “the  deep 
that  coucheth  beneath”  (Deut.  xxxiii,  13).  In  the  N. 
T.  it  is  used  always  with  the  article,  to  designate  the 
abode  of  the  dead,  hades,  especially  that  part  of  it  which 
is  also  the  abode  of  devils  and  the  place  of  woe  (Rom. 
x,  7;  Luke  viii,  31;  Rev.  ix,  1,  2,  11;  xi,  7;  xvii,  8; 
xx,  1,  3).  In  the  Revelation  the  word  is  always  trans- 
lated in  the  A. Vers,  “bottomless  pit,”  by  Luther  “Ab- 
grurnl.”  In  ix,  1,  mention  is  made  of  “the  key  of  the 
bottomless  pit”  (>)  icAtig  too  ppiarog  rijg  d/3.,  the  key 
of  the  pit  of  the  abyss'),  where  hades  is  represented  as  a 
boundless  depth,  which  is  entered  by  means  of  a shaft 
covered  by  a door,  and  secured  by  a lock  (Alford,  Stuart, 
Ewald,  De  Wette,  Diisterdieck).  In  ver.  11  mention  is 
made  of  “ the  angel  of  the  abyss,”  hv  whom  some  suppose 
is  intended  Satan  or  one  of  his  angels. — Kitto,  s.  v.  See 
Abyss. 

(2.)  Abaddon  (dj3aSSiov,  from  the  Ileb.  de- 

struction, the  place  of  the  dead,  Job  xxvi,  6;  Prov.  xv, 
II),  the  name  given  in  Rev.  ix,  11  to  “the  angel  of  the 
abyss,”  and  explained  by  the  writer  as  equivalent  to 
the  Greek  caroAAvwv,  destroyer.  The  term  may  be  un- 
derstood either  as  a personification  of  the  idea  of  de- 
struction, or  as  denoting  the  being  supposed  to  preside 
over  the  regions  of  the  dead,  the  angel  of  death.  The 
Rabbins  frequently  use  this  term  to  denote  the  lowest 
regions  of  sheol  or  hades  ( Erubin , fol.  xix,  1 ; Sohar 
Xum.  fol.  74;  Sohar  Chadush,  fol.  22;  comp.  Eisenmen- 
ger,  Entdecktes  Jud.  ii,  324  sq.) ; and  the  addition,  “an- 
gel of  the  abyss,”  seems  to  favor  the  supposition  that, 
the  president  or  king  of  this  place  is  alluded  to  here. 
But  it  may  he  doubted  whether  the  angelology  of  the 
Rabbins  finds  any  sanction  from  the  N.  T.,  and  it  ac- 
cords better  with  the  general  character  of  the  passage 


to  suppose  a personification  here  of  the  idea  of  destruc- 
tion, so  that  the  symbol  may  find  many  realizations  in 
the  history  of  the  Church:  as  there  are  many  Anti- 
christs, so  doubtless  are  there  many  Apollyons.  The 
identification  of  Abaddon  with  the  Asmodams  of  the 
Apocrypha  and  the  Talmud  rests  upon  no  solid  basis.  — 
Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Abaddon. 

5.  A full  view  of  the  extensive  literature  of  this  sub- 
ject more  appropriately  belongs  to  other  heads;  we 
here  notice  only  a few  treatises  specially  bearing  upon 
the  opposite  states  of  the  dead  Jour.  Sac.  Lit.  October, 
1852, p. 35  sq.,  April,  1853,  p.  56  sq. ; July,  1853,  p.  113 
sq. ; Bickerstetli,  Hades  atul  Heaven  (Loud.  1865),  See 
Heaven. 

Ha'did  (Ileb.  Chadid',  ‘"Pin,  pointed,  peril,  from  its 
situation  on  some  craggy  eminence,  Gesenius,  Thesaur. 
p.446;  Sept.  m Nell,  xi,3l,  elsewhere  unites  with 
preced.  word,  AoSacic  ; Vulgate  Undid),  a place  in  the 
tribe  of  Benjamin,  in  the  vicinity  of  Lod  and  Quo,  whose 
inhabitants  returned  from  the  captivity  to  their  old  seat 
under  Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  33,  where  some  copies  read 
IIauid  * Nell,  vii,  37 ; xi,  34).  It  is  probably  the 
same  with  one  of  the  cities  called  Adida  (q.  v.)  by  Jo- 
sephus (ir«r,  iv,  9,  1),  but  not  that  of  the  Apocrypha 
(1  Maec.  xii,  38;  comp.  Josephus,  Ant.  xiii,  15,2).  In 
the  time  of  Eusebius  and  Jerome  ( Onomast . s.  v.  Adi- 
thaim),  a town  called  Aditha  (AcaSu)  existed  to  the 
east  of  Diospolis  (Lydda).  According  to  Schwarz  ( Phys . 
Description  of  Palestine,  p.  134),  it  was  identical  with  the 
present  “village  el-Chadula,  situated  5 Eng.  miles  east 
of  Lud,  on  the  summit  of  a round  mountain probably 
the  same  with  that  seen  by  Dr.  Robinson,  and  called  by 
him  il  el-IIaditheh,  a large  village  just  at  the  mouth  of 
a wady,  as  it  issues  from  the  hills  east  of  Liuld  into  the 
plain”  (new  edit,  of  Researches,  iii,  1 43,  note).  This  dis- 
trict, although  within  the  territory  of  Dan,  belonged  to 
Benjamin.  The  same  place  is  described  by  the  old 
Jewish  traveller  ha-Parchi  as  being  “on  the  summit  of 
a round  hill,”  and  identified  by  him,  no  doubt  correctly, 
with  Hadid  (Zunz,  in  Asher’s  Ben},  of  Tudela,  ii,  439). 

Hadj  ( Ifadgi , Hay,  Arab.),  pilyrimage,  especially  to 
Mecea.  The  name  hadj  is  also  given  to  the  body  of 
pilgrims  to  Mecca;  and  the  word  is  defined  to  mean 
“aspiration.”  Every  Mohammedan,  male  or  female,  is 
bound,  once  at  least  in  his  lifetime,  to  make  the  hadj  to 
Mecea.  Some  Mohammedan  authorities,  however,  hold 
that  a substitute  may  be  employed ; while  lunatics, 
slaves,  and  minors  are  free  from  the  obligation.  The 
solemnities  at  Mecca  are  held  in  the  twelfth  month  of 
the  Mohammedan  year;  and  the  male  pilgrims,  arriv- 
ing at  certain  points  near  Meeea,  put  on  the  sacred  hab- 
its and  prepare  their  minds  for  the  ceremonies.  Arriv- 
ing at  .Mecca,  each  pilgrim  walks  seven  times  around 
the  Kaahah ; next  he  visits  Mount  Arafat,  twelve  miles 
from  Mecca,  for  prayer  and  instruction.  The  next  night 
is  spent  in  devotion  at  Mogdalipha,  and  the  next  day 
the  pilgrim  visits  a sacred  monument  at  the  spot  where 
Mohammed  went  to  pray.  The  ceremonies  end  with 
sacrifices.  Every  returning  pilgrim  is  styled  Hadgi 
(Ilaji)  thereafter. 

Had'lai  (Heb.  Chadlay',  ’bin,  resting  ; Sept.  ’Aha 
v.  r.  ’FASat,  Yulg.  Adali),  the  father  of  Amasa,  which 
latter  was  one  of  the  Ephraimitcs  who  opposed  the  en- 
slavement of  the  eaptives  of  Judah  in  the  civil  war  be- 
tween Pekah  and  Aliaz  (2  Citron.  xx,viii,  12).  B.C. 
ante  738. 

Hado'ram  (Ileb.  Hadoram',  “defectively” 

in  Chron. ; Fiirst  suggests  [Heb.  Ler.  s.  v.]  = 
□ “i  -linri,  Hador  [i. e.  .4 dor,  the  fire-god ; see  Hadram- 
melechJ  is  exalted;  the  Sant,  at  Gen.  x,  27  has  Ado- 
ram;  Sept,  in  Gen.  x,  27,  QSabpa,  Yulg.  -4  durani ; in  l 
Chron.  i,  21,  Kttovpav ; in  1 Chron.  xviii,  10,  ’ACovpdp  ; 
in  2 Chron.  x,  18,  ’A diopdp  ; Yulg.  in  all  these  last,  Ado- 
ram),  the  name  of  three  men. 


12 


HADRIANUS 


IIARRACII 

1.  A non  am.  the  fifth  son  of  Joktan,  and  progenitor 
of  a tribe  of  tlic  same  name  in  Arabia  Felix  (On.  x,2<  ; 

1 ( 'liron.  i,  21).  B.C.  post  241  1.  Boehart  (/**«%,«, 
20)  compares  the  liirmati  or  hrimati  on  the  Persian 
Gulf  (lTui.  vi.32).and  the  promontory  K opvcapov  (Ras 
4-1-1  lad)  of  Ptol.  vi,  7,  11.  Michaelis  {Spiciley.  ii,  102) 
despairs  of  all  identification  of  the  tribe  in  question.  I 
Selinllliess  (Purad.  ]).  83)  and  (iesenius  {Then.  I I eh.  s. 
v.)  think  that  the  Adramitte  are  meant,  whom  Ptolemy 
('A tiHifilrat,  <koy.  vi,  7)  places  on  the  southern  shores 
of  Arabia,  between  the  llotnerihe  (Hamvarites)  and  the 
Sochalitie.  an  account  with  which  Pliny  (“ Atramitee," 
Hist.  Xat.  vi,  2*,  32;  xii,  14,30)  substantially  agrees.— 
Winer,  i,  loo.  Fresnel  cites  an  Arab  author  who  iden- 
tifies Hadoram  with  Jurhuin  (4’"*  Lett  re,  Journ.  A sia- 
tique,  iii  serie,  vi,  220) ; but  this  is  highly  improbable ; 
nor  is  the  suggestion  of  1/adhiira,  by  Caussin  (A ssai  i, 
30),  more  likely,  the  latter  being  one  of  the  aboriginal 
tribes  of  Arabia,  such  as  ’Ad,  Thamfkl,  etc. — Smith,  s.  v. 
See  A raui  a. 

2 Hadoram,  son  of  Toi,  king  of  Ilamath,  sent  by 
his  father  (with  valuable  presents  in  the  form  of  articles 
of  antique  manufacture  [Josephus],  in  gold,  silver,  and 
brass)  to  congratulate  David  on  his  victory  over  their 
common  enemy  II adarezer,  king  of  Syria  (1  Citron,  xviii, 
10).  B.C.  cir.  1034.  In  the  parallel  narrative  of  2 Sam. 
viii, the  name  is  given  as  Jouam  ; but  this  being  a con- 
traction of  Jehoram,  which  contains  the  name  of  Jeho- 
vah, is  peculiarly  an  Israelitish  appellation.  By  Jose- 
phus (.4  nt.  vi i,  5, 4)  he  is  called  ‘Ai  ilipapoe. — Smith,  s.  v. 

3.  A don  i ram  (q.  v.),  as  he  is  elsewhere  more  fully 
called  (I  Kings  iv,  0 ; v,  14;  Josephus  constantly  ’AF&- 
p«poe)  the  son  of  Abda,  the  treasurer  of  taxes  under 
Solomon,  and  who  was  stoned  to  death  by  the  people  of 
the  northern  tribes  when  sent  by  Rehoboam  to  exact 
the  usual  dues  (2  Chron.  x,  IS). 

Ha'drach  (lleb.  Chadrak',  ““7^, signif.  unknown, 
but  pos. Iblv  connected  with  fftular — see  Hadoram; 
Sept.  IVeody,  Yulg.  lladrach),  apparently  the  name  of 
a country,  and  (as  we  may  gather  from  the  parallel ! 
member  of  the  sole  and  obscure  passage  where  it  o;  - 
curs)  near  or  identical  with  Damascus  (Zech.  ix,  1).  | 
The  meaning  seems  to  be,  ‘‘The  utterance  of  the  word 
of  Jehovah  respecting  the  land  of  lladrach;  and  Da- 
mascus is  the  place  upon  which  it  rests.”  On  the  local- 
ity in  cpiestion,  great  division  of  opinion  exists.  Adri- 
chnuiiiis  says.  “ Ailrach,  or  lladrach,  alias  Adra  ...  is 
a city  of  Cu-lcsyria,  about  twenty-live  miles  from  Bos- 
ti'.i.  and  from  it  the  adjacent  region  takes  the  name  of 
band  of  lladrach.  This  was  the  laud  which  formed 
tlic  subject  of  Zcchariah’s  prophecy”  {Theutrum  Terra 
Kanrhe,  p.  7c).  ltabbi  Jose,  a Damascene,  according  to 
Jarclii,  declared  he  knew  a place  of  this  name  east,  of 
Damascus;  and  Michaelis  says  {Snpplew.  p.  077),  “To 
this  I may  add  what  1 learned,  in  the  year  1708,  from 
Joseph  Abhassi,  a noble  Arab  of  the  country  beyond 
Jordan.  I inquired  whether  lie  knew  a city  called  11a- 
drakh  ...  lie  replied  that  there  was  a city  of  that 
name,  which,  though  now  small,  had  been  the  capital  of 
a large  region  called  the  laud  of  Had rakh"  etc.  The 
tW4>  names,  however,  are  entirely  different.  (“ — in,  lla- 
drach; Arab.  I'd  hr' a),  and  there  is  no  historical  evi- 
dence that  F.dlir’a  ever  was  the  capital  of  a large  terri-  | 
tory.  See  Knm-'.i.  Vet  corroborative  of  the  existence 
of  t lie  place  in  question  arc  the  explicit  statements  of 
Cyril  nud  Theodorct  in  commenting  on  the  above  pas- 
sage-. But  to  these  it  is  objected  that  no  modern  trav- 
eller lias  heard  of  such  a place  in  this  region;  (Iesenius 
especially  {Thesiair.  Ihh.  p.  443)  urges  that  the  name 
could  not  have  become  extinct.  Vet  no  other  explana- 
tion ol  the  word  lladrach  hitherto  offered  is  at  all  sat- 
isfactory (see  Winer's  Ifeahc.  s.  v.).  A I overs  suggests 
that  lladrach  may  be  the  name  of  one  of  the  old  deities 
(compare  Adores,  .Instill,  xxxvi,  2,  and  Atkrratik)  of 
Damascus  {hie  Phiini-ier,  i,  478) ; and  Bleek  conjectures 
that  reference  is  made  to  a king  of  that  city  {Studien  u. 


Kntiken , 1852,  ii,  258).  Henderson  {Comment,  ad  loe.) 
supposes  it  to  be  only  a corruption  of  ‘Tin,  the  com- 
mon names  of  the  kings  of  Syria.  See  IIadar.  Jarehi 
and  Kimchi  say,  “Rabbi  Juda  interpreted  it  as  an  al- 
legorical expression  relating  to  the  Messiah,  Who  is 
harsh  (in)  to  the  heathen,  and  gentle  (~1)  to  Israel.” 
Jerome’s  interpretation  is  somewhat  similar:  “Et  est 
ordo  verboruni ; assumptio  verbi  Domini,  acuti  in  pec- 
eatores,  mollis  in  justos.  Adrach  quippe  hoe  rcsonat  ex 
duobtis  integris  nomen  compositum : Ad  (in)  aentum, 
racii  (“1)  molle,  tenerumque  signifieans”  {Comment,  in 
Zach.  ad  loe.).  llengstenberg  {Christol.  iii,  372)  adopts 
the  same  etymology  and  meaning,  but  regards  the  word 
as  a symbolical  appellation  of  the  Persian  empire,  whose 
overthrow  by  Alexander  Zechariali  here  foretells.  He 
says  the  prophet  does  not  mention  the  real  name,  be- 
cause, as  he  lived  during  the  supremacy  of  Persia,  such 
a reference  would  have  exposed  him  to  elanger.  See 
Zeciiariaii,  Book  of. 

Looking  at  the  passage  in  what  appears  to  be  its 
plain  and  natural  meaning,  no  scholar  can  deny  that, 
according  to  the  usual  construction,  the  proper  name 
following  j*1X  is  the  name  of  the  “land”  itself,  or  of 
j the  nation  inhabiting  the  land,  and  the  analogy  pre- 
j sented  by  all  the  other  names  in  the  section  is  sufficient 
proof  that  this  must  be  the  ease  here  (llengstenberg, 
iii,  375).  All  the  other  names  mentioned  are  well 
known — Damascus,  Ilamath,  Tyre,  Zidon,  Gaza,  etc.;  it 
is  natural  to  infer  that  lladrach  is  also  the  name  of  a 
I place  known  to  the  prophet.  Its  position  is  not  aceu- 
' rately  defined.  The  words  of  the  passage  do  not  con- 
j ncet  it  more  closely  with  Damascus  than  with  Hamath. 

| It  is  remarkable  that  no  such  name  is  elsewhere  found 
| in  ancient  writers.  The  translators  of  the  Sept,  were 
| ignorant  of  it.  So  was  Jerome.  Xo  such  place  is  now 
known.  Yet  this  does  not  prove  that  there  never  was 
; such  a name.  Many  ancient  names  have  disappeared, 
as  it  seems  to  he  the  ease  with  this  (see  Alphens,  lJiss. 
de  terra  Chadrach,  Tr.  ad  Rhen.  1723;  also  in  Ugoliuo, 
vii). — Ivittto,  s.  v.  See  Damascus. 

Hadrian,  Pope.  See  Adrian. 

Hadriantts,  P.  vEmiltus,  the  14th  Roman  empe- 
ror (from  A.D.  1 17-138),  was  a relative  and  the  ward  of 
Trajan,  and  married  Julia  Sabina,  the  granddaughter 
of  Mareiana,  sister  of  that  emperor.  In  regard  to  the 
place  of  his  birth,  the  statement  of  Spartianus  {he  vita 
Ifudriuni,  i)  that  lie  was  born  at  Rome  Jan.  24,  A.D. 
70,  is  generally  regarded  as  the  more  reliable,  though 
others  name  ltalica  in  Spain,  where  his  ancestors  had 
settled  in  the  time  of  Seipio  (see  Eutropius,  viii,  G,  and 
Eusebius,  Chronicon , No.  2155,  p.  106, ed.  Sealiger).  Aid- 
ed by  the  preference  of  Trajan’s  wife,  Plotina,  and  show- 
ing himself  capable  in  the  positions  intrusted  to  him,  he 
rose  rapidly,  and  on  the  death  of  Trajan  succeeded  to 
the  empire,  having  been  either  really  adopted  as  his  suc- 
cessor l»y  that  emperor,  or  palmed  off  as  such  by  Plotina 
and  her  party.  For  a statement  of  the  conflicting  opin- 
ions on  this  point,  see  Spartianus  (De  vita  Haelriani,  iv) 
and  Dion  Cassius  (Ixix,  1).  When  Hadrian  assumed  the 
reins  of  government  (A.D.  117),  he  found  the  quiet  of 
the  empire  threatened  at  several  points,  but,  adopting  a 
general  policy  of  peace,  he  succeeded  in  preventing  out- 
breaks and  invasions  in  nearly  every  instance.  In  fur- 
therance of  this  peaceful  policy,  he  withdrew  the  legions 
from  the  conquests  of  his  predecessor  beyond  the  Tigris 
and  Euphrates,  and  would  have  also  abandoned  Dacia 
had  not  populous  Roman  colonies  existed  there. 

Impelled  by  curiosity,  or,  more  probably,  by  a desire 
to  see  for  himself  the  condition  of  the  empire,  he  jour- 
neyed extensively  through  it,  leaving  everywhere  mon- 
uments of  his  munificence  in  temples,  aqueducts,  and 
other  useful  or  ornamental  works.  He  made  many 
improvements  in  the  laws,  and  the  Kdictam  perpetumn 
lladriani  (a  codification  of  praetorial  edicts  made  by  his 
orders)  marked  an  a:ra  in  the  historical  development  of 


HAEMORRHAGE 


13 


1IAEMSTEDE 


the  Roman  law.  Hadrian,  though  a voluptuary  in  pri- 
vate life,  was  a patron  of  the  arts  ami  of  learning;  was 
fond  of  the  society  of  artists,  poets,  scholars,  philoso- 
phers, etc.,  and  even  aspired  to  rank  among  them;  but 
his  inferior  taste,  his  jealousy,  his  overweening  vanity, 
and  his  impatience  of  rivalry  and  contradiction  led  him 
often  to  acts  of  cruel  injustice  towards  the  learned  men 
he  gathered  about  him. 

Ilis  conduct  towards  the  Christians  was  marked  by  a 
sense  of  justice,  'flic  proconsul  of  Asia  Minor  having 
complained  to  Hadrian  that  the  people  at  their  festivals 
demanded  the  execution  of  Christians,  he  issued  a re- 
script forbidding  such  executions,  and  requiring  that  all 
complaints  against  the  Christians  should  be  made  in 
legal  form.  Though  this  edict  failed  to  secure  immu- 
nity to  Christians  from  persecution,  since  the  fourth 
persecution  occurred  during  his  reign,  Hadrian  was  not 
classed  by  Melito,  Tertullian,  or  Eusebius  among  their 
persecutors,  and  his  reign  is  regarded  as  in  general  favor- 
able to  the  progress  of  Christianity.  yElius  Lamprid- 
ins  (Alexander  Severus , 43),  indeed,  mentions  a report 
that  Hadrian  purposed  to  erect  temples  to  Christ,  as 
one  of  the  gods,  but  was  deterred  by  the  priests,  who 
declared  that  all  would  become  Christians  if  he  did  so. 
This  story  is,  however,  generally  regarded  as  unworthy 
of  credit.  The  tolerant,  spirit  or  indifference  of  Hadrian 
towards  religious  opinions  ami  practices  disapproved  of 
and  even  ridiculed  by  him  is  shown  by  his  letter  to  Ser- 
vianus,  preserved  in  Yopiscus  (Severus,  8),  and  by  the 
fact  that  though  a zealous  worshipper  of  the  Sacra  of 
his  native  country,  he  also  adopted  the  Egyptian  Cultus . 

The  peace  of  his  reign  was  broken  by  one  serious 
war.  Among  the  Jews  a spirit  of  discontent  had  been 
kept  alive  ever  since  the  capture  of  Jerusalem  by  Titus. 
Wishing  to  eradicate  this  spirit  by  the  destruction  of 
the  Jewish  nationality,  Hadrian  issued  an  edict  forbid- 
ding the  practice  of  circumcision,  and  determined  to 
erect  on  the  ruins  of  Jerusalem  a new  Roman  city,  to 
be  called  after  himself,  vElia  Capitolina.  Consequent- 
ly a furious  revolt  of  the  Jews  broke  out  under  the 
lead  of  Bar  Coeliba,  a pretended  messiah,  and  it  was 
only  after  having  suffered  great  losses,  ami  having  al- 
most exterminated  the  Jewish  nation  (500,000  Jews  are 
said  to  have  perished),  that  the  imperial  armies  suc- 
ceeded in  crushing  the  revolt,  although  the  able  gen- 
eral, Julius  Severus,  had  been  called  from  the  distant 
shores  of  Britain  to  lead  them.  ./Elia  Capitolina  rose 
over  the  ruins  of  the  Holy  City, but  the  Jew  was  forbid- 
den, on  the  pain  of  death,  to  enter  it,  and  from  that  time 
the  race  was  dispersed  through  the  world.  Antoninus 
Pius  annulled  the  prohibition  of  circumcision.  Hadrian 
died  at  Baine  July  10,  138;  hut  his  last,  days  had  been 
marked  by  such  outrageous  cruelties  that  Antoninus, 
his  successor,  with  difficulty  secured  the  customary  hon- 
ors to  his  memory. — Spartianns,  I)e  vita  Hadriuni  (in 
Scriptores  ffisforiee  J ugusUe,  Teubner’s  edit.);  Smith. 
Diet,  of  Greek  and  Roman  Biog.  and  Jfythol.  ii,  310  sq. ; 
Hoefer.  Xour.  Biog.  Gen.  i,30l  sq. : Herzog,  Reaf-Eney- 
klopiidie,  v,  44G ; Sharpe,  History  of  Eyypt,  xv,  14-31. 
(J.  W.  M.) 

Haemorrhage.  See  Issue. 

Haem'orrhoids  (S’nin^,  feehorim',  prob.  tumorcs 
ani,  i.  e.  the  piles , so  called  as  protruded  [the  root  is 
to  sOt/cA]  from  the  fundament,  or  from  the  strain- 
ing or  tenesmus  with  flow  of  blood,  which  the  Mnso- 
rites  have  everywhere  inserted  in  the  margin  for  the 
textual  [but  apparently  more  vulgar  and  less  proper] 
word  ophalim',  lit.  hills,  spoken  also  in  the  Arab, 

of  a “ tumor  in  ano  virorum  vel  in  pudendis  midierum” 
[see  Schroeder,  Orig.JIeb.  iv,  54;  Schultcns,  ad  Meula- 
nii  Prov.  p.  23]  ; Sept,  and  Yulg.  understand  a sore  in 
the  secret  parts),  a painful  disease  with  which  the  Phi- 
listines were  afflicted  by  God  as  a punishment  for  de- 
taining the  sacred  ark  at  Ashdod  after  they  bail  cap- 
tured it  in  battle  (2  Sam.  v,  6).  The  word  also  occurs 
among  the  physical  curses  denounced  upon  the  Israel- 


ites by  Moses  in  case  of  apostasy  (Dent,  xxviii,  27). 
Interpreters  arc  not  agreed  on  the  exact  signification  of 
the  original  terms,  nor  on  the  nature  of  the  disease,  al- 
though most  think  that  those  painful  tumors  in  the  fun- 
dament arc  meant  which  sometimes  turn  into  ulcers,  i. 
e.  the.  piles  (I’sa.  lxxviii,  (Mi).  Others  regard  it  as  the 
name  of  the  fundament  itself,  podex  (Bochart,  llieroz.  i, 

, 382;  see  Puller  in  M iscel.  Sac.  v,  3 ; Kaime,  Die  Goldene 
Aerse  der  Philist.  Nnrtmb.  1820).  The  Sept,  and  Yulg. 
add  to  vcr.  0 that  the  Philistines  made  seats  of  skins, 
upon  which  to  sit  with  more  ease,  by  reason  of  their  in- 
disposition. Herodotus  seems  to  have  had  some  knowl- 
edge of  this  history,  but  has  assigned  another  cause  (i, 
105).  He  says  the  Scythians,  having  plundered  the 
temple  of  Yenus  at  Askalon,  a celebrated  city  of  the 
Philistines,  the  goddess,  who  was  worshipped  there,  af- 
flicted them  with  a peculiar  disease  ($i)\iia  vhaoc). 
The  Philistines,  perhaps,  thus  related  the  story;  hut  it 
evidently  passed  for  truth  that  this  disease  was  ancient, 
and  had  been  sent  among  them  by  some  avenging  deity. 
To  remedy  this  suffering,  and  to  remove  the  ravages 
committed  by  rats,  which  wasted  their  country,  the 
Philistines  were  advised  by  their  priests  and  soothsay- 
ers to  return  the  ark  of  God  with  the  following  offerings 
(1  Sam.  vi,  1-18) : five  figures  of  a golden  emerod,  that 
is,  of  the  part  afflicted,  and  live  golden  rats;  hereby  ac- 
knowledging that  this  plague  was  the  effect  of  divine 
justice.  This  advice  was  followed ; and  Josephus  ( . I nt. 
vi,  1,  1,  cvatvrtpta;  Aqttila,  ro  r»;c  Qaytcaivjyj  iXicoc) 
and  others  believed  that  the  five  cities  of  the  Philistines 
made  each  a statue,  which  they  consecrated  to  God  as 
votive  offerings  for  their  deliverance.  This,  however, 
seems  to  have  originated  from  the  figures  of  the  rats. 
The  heathen  frequently  offered  to  their  gods  figures  rep- 
resenting those  parts  of  the  body  which  had  been  dis- 
eased (see  Frey,  De  more  simulacra  membrorum  conse- 
crandi,  Altd.  1746);  and  such  kinds  of  ex  votis  arc  still 
frequent  in  Catholic  countries,  being  consecrated  in 
honor  of  some  saint  who  is  supposed  to  have  wrought 
the  cure : they  are  images  of  wax  or  of  metal,  exhibit- 
ing those  parts  of  the  body  in  which  the  disease  was 
seated.  The  Scholiast  on  Aristophanes  (A  claim.  231) 
mentions  a similar  plague  (followed  hv  a similar  subse- 
quent propitiation  to  that  mentioned  in  Scripture),  as 
; sent  upon  the  Athenians  by  Bacchus.  The  opinion 
; mentioned  by  Winer  (s.  v.  Philister).  as  advanced  by 
Lichtenstein  (in  Eiehhoru’s  Biblioth.  vi.  405-407),  that 
] the  plague  of  cmerods  and  that  of  mice  arc  one  and  the 
same,  the  former  being  caused  by  an  insect  (snfpuga)  as 
large  as  a field-mouse,  is  hardly  worth  serious  attention. 
Kitto  thinks  that  they  were  rather  talismans  specially 
formed  under  astrological  calculations  for  the  purpose 
of  obviating  the  effects  of  the  disease  {Daily  Bible  III ust. 
ad  loc.).  The  words  of  1 Sam.  v,  12,  “The  men  that 
died  not  were  smitten  with  cmerods,”  show  that,  the  dis- 
ease was  not  necessarily  fatal.  It  is  clear  from  its  par- 
allelism with  “ botch”  and  other  diseases  in  Dent,  xxviii, 
27,  that  is  a disease,  not  a part  of  the  body  (see 

Beyer,  De  hcemorrhoidibus  ex  lege  Afosaica,  Lips.  1792). 
Now  1 Sam.  v,  1 1 speaks  of  the  images  of  the  emerods 
after  they  were  actually  made  and  placed  in  the  ark. 
It  thus  appears  probabie  that,  the  former  word  means 
the  disease  and  the  latter  the  part  affected,  which  nr-st 
necessarily  have  been  included  in  the  actually  existing 
image,  and  have  struck  the  eye  as  the  essential  thing 
represented,  to  which  the  disease  was  an  incident.  As 
some  morbid  swelling,  then,  seems  the  most  probable 
nature  of  the  disease,  so  no  more  probable  conjecture 
has  been  advanced  than  that  henmorrhoidal  tumors  or 
1 deeding  piles,  known  to  the  Romans  as  nundscer.  (Juy. 
ii.  13),  are  intended.  These  arc  very  common  in  Syria 
at  present,  ( tricntal  habits  of  want  of  exercise  and  im- 
proper food,  producing  derangement  of  the  liver,  consti- 
pation, etc.,  being  such  as  to  cause  them. — Gesenius,  s. 
v. ; Calmet,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v.  See  Disease. 

Haemstede,  Amu  a an  van,  one  of  the  first  preach- 


14 


IIAFFNER 


IIAENDEL 

ots  of  the  Reformed  faith  in  the  Netherlands,  was  prob-  1 
ably  l*>rn  about  t lie  year  1525  in  Selimwcn.  'I  he  par- 
ents of  Adriaan  seem  to  have  been  among  the  earliest  i 
in  Zealand  to  embrace  the  Reformed  faith,  lie  under-  I 
stood  several  modern  languages,  and  wrote  in  both  Lat-  ■ 
in  and  Dutch,  llis  Dutch  style  is  remarkable  for  per-  j 
spieuity  and  strength.  Adriaan  was  in  1557  minister- 
ing to  the  Deformed  church  in  Antwerp,  and  bis  labors 
there  were  eminently  successful.  Deeply  sympathizing 
with  the  persecuted  Protestants  in  France,  he  wrote  in 
Latin  a letter  to  Henry  the  Second  of  France,  in  which  ^ 
he  remonstrates  with  him  and  pleads  with  him  to  ex- 
ercise clemency.  This  letter  is  dated  Dec.  1,  1557,  and  j 
is  thus  in  advance  of  the  measures  set  on  foot  hv  Calvin 
and  lleza  in  behalf  of  these  persecuted  followers  of  j 
Christ.  Van  Hae.ustcde  in  this  letter  suggests  a con- 
ference such  as  was  held  at  Poissy  in  15G2.  Van  dcr 
llciden,  sent  at  his  request  by  the  church  at  Emden  to 
assist  him  at  Antwerp,  having  arrived,  he  took  occasion 
to  leave  Ibr  a time  (F eb.  1 558).  During  his  absence  dark 
clouds  gathered,  and  soon  after  his  return  the  storm  burst. 
Van  dcr  lleideu,  whose  place  of  preaching  had  been  be- 
t rayed  bv  a woman,  escaped.  Van  Haemstcde  remain-  I 
cd,  t bough  a price  was  set  upon  his  head,  and  certain 
death  awaited  him  if  captured.  Ilis  two  faithful  help-  < 
crs,<  lillis  and  Antoine  Verdikt,  were  both  burned  at  Brus- 
sels. lie  left.  Antwerp  probably  in  March,  1550,  and 
sought  refuge  in  ()>t  Friesland.  Subsequently  he  la- 
bored for  a short  time  at  Groningen,  and  was  thence 
sent  to  England  to  take  charge  of  a Reformed  church  in 
l^mdon.  lie  espoused  the  cause  of  the  better  class  of 
Anabaptists,  so  far  as  to  maintain  that  they  should  not 
lie  punished  for  their  doctrinal  error  respecting  the  hu- 
manity of  Christ,  since,  they  acknowledged  his  divinity, 
and  depended  on  him  for  salvation.  This  view  was  in 
direct,  conflict  with  the  views  and  practice  of  Cranmer 
and  Ridley,  who  had  in  1551  condemned  to  the  flames 
.loris  van  l’arre,  a Netherlander  of  irreproachable  mor- 
als, simply  on  account  of  his  doctrinal  belief.  As  the 
church  which  Haemstcde  served  was  at  this  time  under 
the  sujK’rvision  of  Edmund  Grindal,  bishop  of  London, 
he  was  called  to  account  for  his  views,  and,  adhering  to 
them,  was  banished  from  the  kingdom.  On  his  return 
to  Holland  he  was  deprived  of  all  his  property.  Em- 
den, ton,  refused  to  receive  him.  lie  bore  his  trials  and 
privations  in  a truly  Christian  manner.  At  the  earnest, 
request  of  many  of  the  London  congregation,  lie  finally 
went  thither  again.  The  bishop  of  London  demanded 
a recantation,  lie  refused.  Again  he  was  banished. 
With  a heavy  heart  he  returned  to  Friesland,  where  he 
soon  after  died,  llis  death  occurred  in  15G2.  In  his 
views  of  religions  liberty  he  was  far  in  advance  of  his 
age,  and  fell  a victim  to  the  reigning  spirit  of  intoler- 
ance. He  was  the  author  of  the  tirst  Book  of  Martyrs 
published  in  the  Netherlands.  It  is  conjectured  that  it 
was  first  published  at  Antwerp  during  the  persecution,  j 
and  issued  in  sheets  as  it  was  prepared.  The  original 
edition,  which  is  extremely  rare,  is  in  small  quarto, 
hearing  the  author’s  name,  hut  not  the  place  of  its  pub- 
lication. It  met  with  great  favor,  and  for  two  centuries 
it  was  the  manual  of  thousands,  having  passed  through 
many  successive  editions.  See  an  able  and  interesting 
monograph  of  Rev.  .lob,  ab  Utrecht  Dressclhuis  in  the 
vitli  vol.  oi  Kist  and  Rayaard’s  . I rrhief  mor  Kerkelij/v  j 
Crschivdnii*,  inzonderheid  ran  X rderlaud  (Lcyd.  1835); 
Glasius.  (indi/tleerd  Xedvrland,  D.  ii.  (J.  1 ’.  \\\)  | 

Haendel.  See  ILvxnru 


Hasretici.  See  IIkiu.tic. 

Haeretico  combmendo,  a writ  which,  in  Eng- 
land, “anciently  lav  against  a heretic,  who,  having  once 
been  convicted  of  heresy  by  his  bishop,  and  having  ab- 
jured it,  afterwards  fading  into  it  again,  or  into  sonic 
other,  is  thereupon  committed  to  the  secular  power. 
Ibis  writ  is  thought  by  some  to  he  as  ancient  as  the 
common  law  itselt;  however,  the  conviction  of  heresy 
by  the  common  law  was  not  in  any  petty  ecclesiastical 


court,  but  before  the  archbishop  himself,  in  a provincial 
synod,  and  the  delinquent  was  delivered  up  to  the  king, 
to  do  with  him  as  he  pleased ; so  that  the  crown  had  a 
control  over  the  spiritual  power;  but  by  2 Ilenrv  IV, 
cap.  15,  the  diocesan  alone,  without  the  intervention  of 
a synod,  might  convict  of  heretical  tenets;  and  unless 
the  convict  abjured  his  opinions,  or  if,  after  abjuration, 
he  relapsed,  the  sheriff  was  bound,  ex  officio,  if  required 
by  the  bishop,  to  commit  the  unhappy  victim  to  the 
flames,  without  waiting  for  the  consent  of  the  crown. 
This  writ  remained  in  force,  and  was  actually  executed 
on  two  Anabaptists  in  the  seventh  of  Elizabeth,  and  on 
two  Arians  in  the  ninth  of  James  I.  Sir  Edward  Coke 
was  of  opinion  that  this  writ  did  not  lie  in  his  time; 
but  it  is  now  formally  taken  away  by  statute  29  Car.  II, 
cap.  9.  But  this  statute  docs  not  extend  to  take  away 
or  abridge  the  jurisdiction  of  Protestant  archbishops,  or 
bishops,  or  any  other  judges  of  any  ecclesiastical  courts, 
in  cases  of  atheism,  blasphemy,  heresy,  or  schism;  hut 
they  may  prove  and  punish  the  same,  according  to  liis 
majesty’s  ecclesiastical  laws,  by  excommunication,  dep- 
rivation, degradation,  and  other  ecclesiastical  censures, 
not  extending  to  death,  in  such  sort,  and  no  other,  as 
they  might  have  done,  before  the  making  of  this  act.” — 
Buck,  Theological  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Haevernick.  See  Haverxick. 

Hafenreffer,  Matthias  (also  Haffienreffier),  a Lu- 
theran theologian, was  horn  June  24,1501,  at  Lurch,  in 
Wurtembcrg,  and  died  Oct.  22, 1G19.  at  Tubingen.  lie 
studied  philosophy  ami  theology  at  the  last-named  place, 
and  in  1590  was  made  court -preacher  and  counsellor  of 
the  Consistory  at  Stuttgart;  in  1592  became  professor 
of  theology,  and  in  1 G1 7 chancellor  and  provost  at  Tu- 
bingen. To  a profound  and  comprehensive  learning, 
he  united  a sweet  and  peace-loving  disposition,  which 
led  him  to  keep  aloof  for  the  most  part  from  the  theo- 
logical strifes  of  his  age,  and  to  find  his  pleasures  in  di- 
recting and  stimulating  the  studies  of  his  pupils,  to 
whose  affectionate  appreciation  of  him  Yal.Andreii  and 
others  hear  testimony.  Ilis  chief  work,  Loci  theologici 
certa  met  hod o ac  raiinne  hi  Ires  libros  tributi  (Tubingen, 
1600;  an  improved  and  enlarged  cd.  1G03),  published  at 
the  request  of  Frederick,  duke  of  'Wurtembcrg,  for  the 
use  of  prince  John  Frederick,  was  regarded  as  a model 
not  only  of  Lutheran  orthodoxy,  hut  also  of  clearness 
and  definiteness  in  conception,  and  expression  and  sim- 
plicity in  style.  It  was  the  text-book  of  theology  at 
Tubingen  up  to  the  crnl  of  the  17th  century,  supplant- 
ing Ileerbrand’s  Compendium,  which  had  long  been  of 
almost  symbolical  authority  there.  By  royal  decree  it 
was,  in  1012,  made  the  official  text-book  of  dogmatics 
in  the  University  of  Upsala  and  other  Swedish  institu- 
tions of  learning.  Charles  XII  is  said  to  have  almost 
known  it  by  heart.  IlafenrcfTcr  wrote  also  some  con- 
troversial works  against  the  Romanists  and  Calvinists, 
and  a work  entitled  Templmn  Kzechielis  (Tubingen.  1 til 3, 
ibl.) — 1 1 erzog,  Deal- Encylloj.  eidie,  v,  4G9.  (J.  W.  M.) 

HafTner,  Isaac,  a French  I’rotestant  minister  and 
distinguished  humanist,  was  horn  at  Strasburg  in  1751. 
After  studying  at  Taris  and  visiting  several  of  the  Ger- 
man universities,  he  was  ordained,  and  soon  acquired 
great  reputation  as  a preacher  in  Strasburg.  He  be- 
came subsequently  dean  of  the  theological  faculty  of 
that  city,  and  died  there  May  27,  1831.  lie  had  been 
instrumental  in  restoring  in  part  the  old  university  of 
[ Strasburg  under  the  title  of  Protestant  Theological  A cad- 
I »'»”/,  which  was  afterwards  changed  to  Protestant  Semi- 
I nary.  At  the  inauguration  he  delivered  an  address, 
printed  under  the  title  Des  Secours  que  F etude  des  lan- 
f/ues,  de  Fhistoire,  de  fa  phifosophie  ei  de  la  litterature.  of- 
fre  it  la  theohf/ie  (St  rash.  1803, 8vo);  he  wrote  also  De. 
f /'.duration  Utteraire,  on  essai  sur  /'organisation  d'un 
etahlissement  pour  les  /unites  sciences  (Strasb.  1792,  8vo). 
Discourses  delivered  on  the  anniversary  of  his  50th  year 
in  the  ministry  were  published  under  the  title  Jvbile 
i d' II affine r (French  and  German,  Strasb.  1831,  8vo).  See 


IIAFT 


15 


IIAGAR 


Oberlin,  Almanack  iV  Alsace;  M.  Henrion,  Annales  bio- 
yraphiques  (1831, 1851),  vol.  ii;  Hoofer,  Nouv.  Bioy.  Gen. 
xxiii,  80. 

Haft  (ZLi23,  nitstsab',Jii'm),  the  handle  of  a weapon, 
e.  g.  of  a dagger  (Jiulg.  iii,  22).  See  Knife. 


by  "the  Jews  for  Sabbath  reading  in  the  synagogue,  un- 
der Ant  ioclins  Epiphanes,  who  forbid  them  reading  the 
law.  Previous  to  his  time  the  Pentateuch  was  divided 
into  s ideas.  In  Palestine  the  number  of  sections  re- 
quired three  years  for  the  public  reading  of  the  whole 
Pentateuch,  but  in  Babylonia,  the  reading,  arranged  as 
above  referred  to,  was  done  in  one  year. — Burst,  Kultur - 
yeschichte,  i,  GO;  Etheridge,  Introduction  to  llebr.  Lit.  p. 
201.  See  Hafutaraii.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Ha'gab  (lleb.  Chayab ',  -3H,  a locust Sept.  Ay  d(3), 
one  of  the  Nethinim  whose  descendants  returned  from 
Babylon  under  Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  46).  B.C.  ante  536. 
See  Hagaba. 

Hag'aba  (lleb.  Chayaba ',  X33in,  a locust,  a Chal- 
daizing  form ; Sept.  ’Ay  a fid  v.  r.  ’Ayyaj3d,\  ulg.  Ilayabu, 
Nell.  v ii,  -18)  or  IIAG'ABAII  (Heb.  Chayabah',  rcjn, 
id. ; Sept.  ’Ay«/3«,Yulg.  llayaba,  Ezra  ii,  45),  one  of  the 
Nethinim  whose  descendants  returned  from  the  captiv- 
ity with  Zerubbabel.  B.C.  ante  536.  See  Agabus; 
IIagab. 

Hagany,  John  B.,  D.D.,  an  eminent  minister  of 
the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church,  was  born  in  the  city 
of  Wilmington,  Delaware,  August  26,  1808,  of  Metho- 
dist parentage,  and  entered  the  itinerant  ministry  in 
1831.  His  ministry  was  from  the  lirst  very  success- 
ful. During  his  long  career  of  thirty-ionr  years  he 
filled  many  of  the  most  important  stations  of  his  Church 
in  the  Middle  States,  among  them  Pottsville,  Pa.;  St. 
George’s,  Ebenezcr,  and  Trinity  churches,  Philadelphia ; 
the  Vestry  Street,  Mulberry  Street,  St.  Paul’s,  and  Bed- 
ford Street  churches,  New  York  City;  Sands  Street, 
Brooklyn,  and  Thirtieth  Street,  New  York,  where  he 
closed  his  labors  with  his  life,  June  28,  1865. 

Dr.  Ilaganv  was  an  eloquent  preacher.  He  had  a 
sweet-toned  voice,  a calm  rather  than  a fervid  temper- 
ament, a quick,  tender  sympathy,  by  which  he  was 
readily  affected  himself,  and  could  readily  affect  others 
to  tears.  His  memory  was  retentive,  and  enabled  him 
to  command  instantly  all  his  resources.  In  the  early 
Methodist  literature,  and  the  English  classics  of  the 
17th  century,  he  was  unusually  well  read,  and  his  cita- 
tions from  his  favorite  authors  pleasantly  spiced  his 
conversation.  Withal  there  was  a vein  of  humor  run- 
ning through  his  speaking  and  writing  which  gave  a 
flavor  to  both.  His  literary  remains  consist  chiefly  of 
essays  contributed  to  religious  and  other  periodicals. 
One  of  these,  on  John  Wesley,  furnished  to  Harper’s 
Mayazine,  is  one  of  the  most  striking  characterizations 
of  the  great  reformer  extant.  On  the  last  Sunday  of 
his  life,  June  25th,  he  preached  to  his  congregation  from 
the  text,  “Let  me  die  the  death  of  the  righteous,  and 
let  my  last  end  be  like  his.”  Not  having  finished  his 
discourse,  he  announced  that  he  would  conclude  it  the 
next  time  he  preached.  On  the  evening  of  that  day  he 
was  too  unwell  to  go  into  the  pulpit.  On  Wednesday 
afternoon  he  was  sitting  in  his  chair,  reading  from  the 
sermons  of  Rev.  Jonathan  Seed,  an  old  favorite  of  John 
Wesley.  Meeting  in  Seed  with  a passage  which  greatly 
pleased  him,  he  called  his  wife,  and  began  reading  it 
aloud  to  her.  While  reading  he  was  seized  with  a 
spasm  of  pain  in  the  chest;  the  book  was  dropped,  he 
leaned  his  head  upon  his  hand,  his  arm  upon  the  table 
before  him,  and  in  a few  minutes  it  was  all  over.  He 
had  nearly  completed  his  fifty-seventh  year,  and  the 
thirty-fourth  of  his  ministry.  (G.  Ii.  C.) 

Ha'gar  (Heb.  flayar',  fiiyht,  apparently  from 
her  abandonment  of  her  mistress ; but  according  to  oth- 


ers, a strunyer,  from  her  foreign  birth  [eomp.  Haoak- 
kne];  Sept,  and  N.  T.  Ayc/p),  a native  of  Egypt,  and 
servant  of  Abraham  (Gen.  xxi,  (>,  10),  perhaps  one  of 
the  female  slaves  presented  to  Abraham  bv  Pharaoh 
during  his  visit  to  Egypt  (Gen.  xii,  16),  although  she 
properly  belonged  to  Sarah  (Gen.  xvi,  1).  The  long- 
continued  sterility  of  Sarah  suggested  to  her  the  idea 
(not  uncommon  in  the  East)  of  becoming  a mother  by 
proxy  through  her  handmaid,  whom,  with  that  view, 
she  gave  to  Abraham  as  a secondary  wife  (Gen.  xv). 
B.C.  2078.  See  Abraham  ; Adoption;  Concubine. 
This  honor  was  too  great  and  unexpected  for  the  weak 
and  ill-Tegidated  mind  of  llagar;  and  no  sooner  did  she 
find  herself  likely  to  become  the  mother  of  her  master’s 
heir  than  she  openly  indulged  in  triumph  over  her  less 
favored  mistress.  The  feelings  of  Sarah  were  severely 
wounded,  and  she  broke  out  to  her  husband  in  loud 
complaints  of  the  servant’s  petulance.  Abraham,  whose 
meek  and  prudent  behavior  is  strikingly  contrasted  with 
the  violence  of  his  wife,  left  her  with  unfettered  power,  as 
mistress  of  his  household,  to  take  what  steps  she  pleased 
to  obtain  the  required  redress.  (See  Kitto's  Daily  Bi- 
ble Illust.  ad  loe.)  In  all  Oriental  states  where  con- 
cubiuage  is  legalized,  the  principal  wife  has  authority 
over  the  rest ; the  secondary  one,  if  a slave,  retains  her 
former  condition  unchanged,  and  society  thus  presents 
the  strange  anomaly  of  a woman  being  at  once  the  me- 
nial of  her  master  and  the  partner  of  his  bed.  This  per- 
mission, however,  was  necessary  in  an  Eastern  house- 
hold, but  it  is  worthy  of  remark  that  it  is  now  very 
rarely  given ; nor  can  we  think,  from  the  unchangeable- 
ness of  Eastern  customs,  and  the  strongly-marked  na- 
tional character  of  those  peoples,  that  it  was  usual  an- 
ciently to  allow  a wife  to  deal  hardly  with  a slave  in 
Ilagar’s  position.  Left  with  this  authority  over  her 
dotal  maid -servant,  Sarah  was  neither  reluctant  nor 
sparing  in  making  the  minion  reap  the  fruits  of  her  in- 
solence; but  whether  she  actually  inflicted  blows  (Au- 
gustine, Epist.  xlviii),  or  merely  threw  out  menaces  to 
that  effect,  cannot  be  determined  from  the  verb  (to 
11  afflict"),  there  employed.  Sensible,  at  length,  of  the 
hopelessness  of  getting  the  better  of  her  mistress,  llagar 
determined  on  flight ; and  having  seemingly  formed  the 
purpose  of  returning  to  her  relations  in  Egypt,  she  took 
the  direction  of  that  country,  which  led  her  to  what 
was  afterwards  called  Shur,  through  a long  tract  of 
sandy  uninhabited  country,  lying  on  the  west  of  Arabia 
Petriea,  to  the  extent  of  150  miles  between  Palestine 
and  Egypt.  Here  she  was  sitting  by  a fountain  to  re- 
plenish her  skin-bottle  or  recruit  her  wearied  limbs, 
when  the  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared,  and  in  the  kind- 
liest manner  remonstrated  with  her  on  the  course  she 
was  pursiuiig,  and  encouraged  her  to  return  by  the 
promise  that  she  would  ere  long  have  a son,  whom  Prov- 
idence destined  to  become  a great  man,  and  whose  wild 
and  irregidar  features  of  character  would  be  indelibly 
impressed  on  the  mighty  nation  that  should  spring  from 
him.  Obedient  to  the  heavenly  visitor,  and  having 
distinguished  the  place  by  the  name  of  Bcer-lahai-roi 
(q.  v.),  “the  well  of  the  visible  God,”  llagar  retraced 
her  steps  to  the  tent  of  Abraham,  where  in  due  time  she 
had  a son ; and,  having  probably  narrated  this  remark- 
able interview  to  Abraham,  that  patriarch,  as  directed 
by  the  angel,  called  the  name  ot  the  child  Ishmael, 
“ God  hath  heard”  (Gen.  xvi).  B.G.  2078.  Fourteen 
years  after  the  birth  of  Ishmael  the  appearance  of  the 
long-promised  heir  entirely  changed  the  relations  of  the 
family,  though  nothing  materially  affecting  Ishmael 
took  place  till  the  weaning  of  Isaac,  which,  as  is  gener- 
ally thought,  was  at  the  end  of  his  third  year.  B.C. 
2061.  Ishmael  was  then  fully  capable  of  understanding 
his  altered  relations  to  the  inheritance ; and  when  the 
newlv-weaned  child,  elad,  according  to  custom,  with 
the  sacred  symbolic  robe,  which  was  the  badge  of  the 
birthright,  was  formally  installed  heir  of  the  tribe  (see 
Biblioth.  Bibl.  vol.  i ; Yicasi,  A nnot.  p.  32 ; Bush  on  Gen. 
xxvii,  15),  he  inconsiderately  gave  vent  to  his  disap- 


16 


IIAGAREXE 

pointed  feelings  l.y  an  act  of  mockery  (Gen.  xxi,  9—  , 
the  Hebrew  word  jrn2,  though  properly  signifying  “to 
Irni'di.”  is  frequently  used  to  express  strong  derision,  as  ] 
in  Hen.  xix,  14;  Nell,  ii,  19;  iv,  1 5 Ezek.  xxiii,32;  ac- 
eoinpauied,  as  is  probable,  on  some  of  the  occasions  re- 
ferred to  in  these  passages,  with  violent  gestures,  which 
might  verv  justly  be  interpreted  as  persecution,  Gal. 
jv/aii).  The  procedure  of  Abraham  in  awarding  the 
inheritance  to  Isaac  was  guided  by  the  special  com- 
mand of  God,  and,  moreover,  was  in  harmony  with  the 
immemorial  practice  of  the  East,  where  the  son  of  a 
slave  or  secondary  wife  is  always  supplanted  by  that  of 
a free  woman,  even  if  born  long  after.  This  insulting 
conduct  of  Ishmacl  gave  oflenee  to  Sarah,  such  that  she 
insisted  upon  his  expulsion  from  the  family,  together 
with  his  mother  as  conniving  at  it.  So  harsh  a meas-. 
lire  was  extremely  painful  to  Abraham ; but  his  scruples 
were  removed  by  the  divine  direction  to  follow  Sarah’s 
advice  (see  Kitto’s  Daily  Bible  I Host,  ad  loc.),  “ for,” 
adds  the  Targum  of  Jonathan,  “she  is  a prophetess” 
(compare  Gal.  iv.  30).  Accordingly,  “Abraham  rose  up 
early  in  the  morning,  and  took  bread,  and  a bottle  of 
water  (and  gave  it  unto  Ilagar,  putting  it  on  her  shoul- 
der). and  the  child,  and  sent  her  away”  (Gen.  xxi,  14). 
Ii.C.  20(51.  In  spite  of  instructions,  the  two  exiles  miss- 
ed their  way.  Overcome  by  fatigue  and  thirst,  the 
strength  of  the  young  lshmael  first  gave  way,  and  his 
mother  laid  him  down  in  complete  exhaustion  under 
one  of  the  stunted  shrubs  of  this  arid  region,  in  the  hope 
of  his  obtaining  some  momentary  relief  from  smelling 
the  damp  in  the  shade,  while  she  withdrew  to  a little 
distance,  unable  to  witness  his  lingering  sufferings,  and 
there  “she  lifted  up  her  voice  and  wept.”  In  this  dis- 
tress, the  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  with  a comforting 
promise  of  her  son's  future  greatness,  ami  directed  her 
to  a fountain,  which,  concealed  by  the  brushwood,  had 
escaped  her  notice,  and  from  which  she  now  revived  the 
almost  lifeless  lshmael.  This  well,  according  to  the  tra- 
dition of  the  Arabs  (who  pay  grert  honor  to  the  memo- 
ry of  Ilagar,  and  maintain  that  she  was  Abraham’s 
lawful  wife),  is  Zenizcm,  near  Mecca.  (See  Weil’s  Bill. 
Legends,  p.  *2.)  Of  the  subsequent  histon'  of  Ilagar 
wo  ’iave  no  account  beyond  what  is  involved  in  that  of 
Ishmacl,  who  established  himsell  in  the  wilderness  of 
1'aran.  in  the  neighborhood  of  Sinai,  was  married  by  his 
mother  to  a countrywoman  of  her  own.  and  maintained 
both  himself  and  his  family  by  the  produce  of' his  bow 
(Gen.  xxi,  20, 21).— Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Isiuiaeu  In  Gal. 
iv,  21.  the  apostle  Paul,  in  an  allegory,  makes  Ilagar 
fro  "A yap)  represent  the  Jewish  Church,  which  was  in 
bondage  to  the  ceremonial  law,  as  Sarah  represents  the 
true  Church  of  Christ,  which  is  free  from  this  bondage. 
(See  1 Doom  field's  .Vote,  ail  loc.)  Some  commentators, 
however,  have  discovered  an  alliteration  in  t lie  name 
here  with  t lie  Arab,  word  for  stone  ( hajar ).  According 
to  Mohammedan  tradition.  Ilagar  (l lajir ) was  buried 
at  Mecca!  fl)’l lerhclot,  Jiib.  Or.  s.  v.  llagiar).  Mr. 
Howlands,  in  travelling  through  the  desert  of  Beershe- 
l>a,  discovered  some  wells  and  a stone  mansion,  which 
lie  declares  the  Arabs  still  designate  ns  those  of  Ilagar! 
(\\  illinms.  Holy  City,  i,  4ti,i  sq.).  See  Abraham. 

Kagarfhie  or  Hag'arite  [commonly  JIa'garite~\ 
(licit,  lhufri’,  fugitive  | compare  f/nyar,  from  the 

same  root  as  the  Arab,  ihyimh,  i.  v.  flight  | ; hut,  accord- 
ing to  l’llrst.  s.  v.,  it  patrinl  from  some  ancestor  Ilagar, 
otherwise  unknown;  1 Cliron.  xi,  38,  Sept.  'A  room, 
Yulg.  - \ynnii,  A.  V.  “ llaggcri  ;*’  xxvii.  31,  ’Ayopi'rijc, 
Ayarius.  “Ilaggerite;”  in  the  plur.  liar, rim ', 

Psa.  Ixxxiii,  <5,  ’Ayapyrai,  Agnreni.  “ llngarenes;"  fnllv 
J iayriim' , — 'N" n,  1 Cliron.  v,  10,  1‘),  20,  Sept,  in  vcr. 
10  irdpcncui,  in  vcr.  19,  20  ’Ayupiuoi,  Vnlg.  Atir/arei , 
A.  V.  “ 1 Inga  rites;”  Baruch  iii,  23,  vini  “Ayap,fllii  Ayur, 
“ Agarenes”),  occurs  apparently  as  the  national  or  local 
designation  of  two  individuals,  and  also  of  a tribe  or  re- 
gion, probably  the  same  Arab  people  who  appear  at  dil- 


IIAGAKEXE 

ferent  periods  of  the  sacred  history  as  foreigners  to  the 
Hebrews.  See  Arabia. 

I.  Of  individuals  it  is  twice  used  in  connection  with 
the  royal  staff  in  the  time  of  David  (q.  v.). 

1.  In  1 Cliron.  xi,  38  of  Mini  ah  (q.  v.),  one  of  David’s 

mighty  men,  who  is  described  as  vibg’Ayapi, 

flats  Agarai,  “the  son  of  Haggeri,”  or,  better  (as  the 
margin  has  it),  “the  Ilaggerite,”  whose  father’s  name  is 
not  given.  This  hero  differs  from  some  of  his  col- 
leagues, “Zelek  the  Ammonite”  (ver.  39),  for  instance; 
or  “ Ithmah  the  Moabite”  (ver.  4(5),  in  that,  while  they 
were  foreigners,  he  was  only  the  son  of  a foreigner — a 
domiciled  settler  perhaps.  See  IIaggeri. 

2.  In  1 Chron.  xxvii,  31  of  J.vziz  (q.  v.),  another  of 
David’s  retainers,  who  was  “over  his  flocks.”  This 
man  was  himself  a “llagarite,”  6 ’A yapmjg,  Agareus. 
A comparison  of  the  next  paragraph  (II)  will  show  how 
well  qualified  for  his  office  this  man  was  likely  to  be 
from  his  extraction  from  a pastoral  race.  (“A  llagarite 
had  charge  of  David’s  flocks,  and  an  Ishmaelite  of  his 
herds,  because  the  animals  were  pastured  in  districts 
where  these  nomadic  people  were  accustomed  to  feed 
their  cattle”  [or,  rather,  because  their  experience  made 
them  skilful  in  such  employments],  Bcrtheau  on  Chron- 
icles [Clarke’s  ed.],  ii,  320.)  One  of  the  effects  of  the 
great  victory  over  the  Hagarites  of  Gilead  and  the 
East  was  probably  that  individuals  of  their  nation  en- 
tered the  service  of  the  victorious  Israelites,  either  vol- 
untarih’  or  by  coercion,  as  freemen  or  as  slaves.  Jaziz 
was  no  doubt  among  the  former,  a man  of  eminence  and 
intelligence  among  his  countrymen,  on  which  account 
he  attracted  the  attention  of  his  royal  master,  who 
seems  to  have  liberally  employed  distinguished  ami 
meritorious  foreigners  in  his  service.  See  Haggeritis. 

II.  Of  a people  three  times  who  appear  in  hostile  re- 
lation to  the  llebreiv  nation. 

I.  Our  first  passage  treats  of  a great  war,  which  in 
the  reign  of  king  Saul  was  w'aged  .between  tlie  trans-Jor- 
danic  tribes  of  Beuben,  Gad,  and  half  Manasseli  on  the 
one  side,  and  their  formidable  neighbors,  the  Hagarites, 
aided  by  the  kindred  tribes  of  “ Jetur,  and  Ntphish,  and 
Xodab, ” on  the  other.  ( Kindred  tribes,  we  say,  on  the 
evidence  of  Gen.  xxv,  15.  The  Arab  tribes  derived 
from  Ilagar  and  lshmael,  like  the  earlier  stocks  descend- 
ed from  Cush  and  Joktan,  were  at  the  same  time  gener- 
ally known  by  the  common  patronymic  of  Ishmaelites 
or  llagarenes.  Some  regard  the  three  specific  names 
of  Jetur,  Nephish,  and  Nodal),  not  as  distinct  from,  hut 
ill  apposition  with  Hagarites;  as  if  the  Hagarites  with 
whom  the  two  tribes  and  a half  successfully  fought  were 
the  clans  of  Jetur,  Nephish,  and  Nodab.  See  Forster’s 
Geog.  of  Arabia,  i,  180-189.)  The  result  of  this  war 
was  extremely  favorable  to  the  eastern  Israelites:  many 
of  the  enemy  were  taken  and  many  slain  in  the  conflict 
(ver.  21,  22);  the  victorious  two  tribes  and  a half  took 
possession  of  the  country,  and  retained  it  until  the  cap- 
tivity (ver.  22).  The  booty  captured  on  this  occasion 
was  enormous:  “of  camels  60.000,  and  of  sheep  260,000, 
and  of  asses  2000”  (ver.  21).  Hoscnmuller  {Bill.  Geogr. 
[tr.  by  Morren],  iii,  140).  following  the  8ept.  and  Lu- 
ther, unnecessarily  reduces  the  number  of  camels  to 
5000.  When  it  is  remembered  that  the  wealth  of  a 
Bedouin  chief,  both  in  those  and  these  times,  consisted 
of  cattle,  the  amount  of  the  booty  taken  in  the  llagarite 
war,  though  great,  was  not.  excessive.  Job’s  stock  is 
described  as  “ 7000  sheep,  3000  camels,  500  yoke  of  oxen, 
and  500  she-asses”  (i,  3).  Alesha,  king  of  Moab,  paid 
to  the.  king  of  Israel  a tribute  of  100,000  lambs  and 
100,000  rams  (2  Kings  iii,  4).  In  further  illustration  of 
this  wealth  of  cattle,  we  may  quote  a passage  from  Stan- 
ley’s Jewish  Church,  i,  215,  216:  “Still  the  countless 
flocks  and  herds  may  he  seen  [in  this  very  region  con- 
quered from  the  Hagarites],  droves  of  cattle  moving  on 
like  troops  of  soldiers,  descending  at  sunset  to  drink  of 
the  springs — literally,  in  the  language  of  the  prophet, 
‘ ranis  and  lambs,  and  goats  and  bullocks,  all  of  them 
fatlings  of  Bashan.’  ” By  this  conquest,  which  was  still 


HAGAIIENES 


17 


HAGAIIENES 


more  firmly  ratified  in  the  subsequent  reign  of  David, 
the  promise,  which  was  given  as  early  as  Abraham’s 
time  (Gen.  xv,  18)  and  renewed  to  Moses  (Deut.  i,  7) 
and  to  Joshua  (i,  4),  began  to  receive  that  accomplish- 
ment which  was  consummated  by  the  glorious  Solomon 
(I  Kings  iv,  21).  The  large  tract  of  country  which 
thus  accrued  to  Israel  stretched  from  the  indefinite 
frontier  of  the  pastoral  tribes,  to  whom  were  formerly 
assigned  the  kingdoms  of  Sihon  and  Og,  to  the  Euphra- 
tes. A comparison  of  1 Chron.  v,  9-20  with  Gen.  xxv, 
12-18,  seems  to  show  that  this  line  of  country,  which 
(as  the  history  informs  us)  extended  eastward  of  Gilead 
and  Bashan  in  the  direction  of  the  Euphrates,  was  sub- 
stantially the  same  as  that  which  Moses  describes  as 
peopled  by  the  sons  of  Ishmael,  whom  Hagar  bore  to 
Abraham.  “They  dwelt,”  says  Moses,  “from  Ilavilah 
unto  Shur,  that  is  before  Egypt  as  thou  goest  towards 
Assyria” — in  other  words,  across  the  country  from  the 
junction  of  the  Euphrates  with  the  Tigris  to  the  isth- 
mus of  Suez;  and  this  is  the  spacious  tract  which  we 
assign  to  the  Ilagarites  or  Hagarenos.  The  booty  taken 
from  the  Ilagarites  and  their  allies  proves  that  much 
of  this  territory  was  well  adapted  to  pasturage,  and 
therefore  valuable  to  the  nomadic  habits  of  the  conquer- 
ors (Numb,  xxxii,  1).  The  brilliancy  of  the  conquest, 
moreover,  exhibits  the  military  prowess  of  these  shep- 
herds. Living  amid  races  whose  love  of  plunder  is  still 
illustrated  in  the  predatory  Bedouins  of  Eastern  Pales- 
tine, they  were  obliged  to  erect  fortresses  for  the  protec- 
tion of  their  pastures  (Michaelis,  Laws  of  Moses , art. 
xxiii),  a precaution  which  seems  to  have  been  resorted 
to  from  the  first.  The  sons  of  Ishmael  are  enumerated, 
Gen.  xxv,  1G,  “by  their  towns  and  by  their  castles 
and  some  such  defensive  erections  were  no  doubt  meant 
by  the  children  of  Reuben  and  Gad  in  Numb,  xxxii,  1G, 
17.  See  Ishmaklites. 

2.  Though  these  eastern  Israelites  became  lords  par- 
amount of  this  vast  tract  of  country,  it  is  not  necessary 
to  suppose  that  they  exclusively  occupied  the  entire  re- 
gion, nor  that  the  Ilagarites  and  their  kindred,  though 
subdued,  were  driven  out;  for  it  was  probably  in  the 
same  neighborhood  that  “ the  Ilagarenes”  of  our  second 
passage  were  living  when  they  joined  in  the  great  con- 
federacy against  Israel  with,  among  others,  Edom,  and 
Moab,  and  Ammon,  and  Amalek  (Psa.  lxxxiii,  6 [Ileb. 
7 ; Sept,  lxxii,  G]).  When  this  combination  took  place 
is  of  little  importance  here;  Mr.  Thrupp  (Psalms,  ii,  GO, 
Gl)  gives  reasons  for  assigning  it  to  the  reigns  of  Jeho- 
ash  and  of  his  son  Jeroboam  II.  The  psalm  was  prob- 
ably written  on  the  triumph  of  Jehosliaphat  over  the 
trans-Jordanic  Bedouins  (2  Chron.  xx).  See  Psalms. 
The  nations,  however,  which  constituted  the  confeder- 
acy with  the  Ilagarenes,  seem  to  confirm  our  opinion 
that  these  were  still  residing  in  the  district,  where  in  the 
reign  of  Saul  they  had  been  subjugated  by  their  Israel- 
itisli  neighbors.  Rosenmuller  {Bill.  Geogr.  [trails.]  iii, 
141)  and  Gesenius  ( Thesaur . p.  365)  suggest  that  the 
Ilagarenes  when  vanquished  migrated  to  the  south-east, 
because  on  the  Persian  Gulf  there  was  the  province  of 
Hagar  or  If  ajar.  This  is  the  district  which  the  Ara- 
bian geographers  have  carefully  and  prominently  de- 
scribed (compare  De  Sacy’s  Chrestomathie  Arabs,  ii,  123 ; 
Abulfeda  [by  Reinaud],  ii,  1,  137,  who  quotes  Jakut’s 
Moshtarek  for  some  of  his  information;  and  Rommel’s 
Commentary  on  Abulfeda,  Be  Prov.  Ilaejhtr,  sice  Bahh- 
rain,  p.  87,  88,  89;  D'Herbelot,  s.  v.  Ilagr).  We  will 
not  deny  that  this  province  probably  derived  its  name 
and  early  inhabitants  from  Hagar  and  her  son  Ishmael 
(or,  as  Rabbi  1).  Kimchi  would  prefer,  from  II  agar, 
through  some  son  by  another  father  than  Abraham) ; 
but  we  are  not  of  opinion  that  these  Hagarencs  of  the 
Persian  Gulf,  whose  pursuits  were  so  different,  were 
identical  with  the  Ilagarenes  of  the  Psalm  before  us,  or 
with  the  Hagarites  of  1 Chron.,  whom  we  have  identi- 
fied with  them.  Nothing  pastoral  is  related  of  this 
maritime  tribe ; Rommel  quotes  from  two  Arabian  ge- 
ographers, Taifashi  and  Bakiu,  who  both  describe  these 
IV.— B 


Hagarenes  of  the  coast  as  much  employed  in  pearl-fish 
ing  and  such  pursuits.  Niebuhr  (Travels  in  Arabia 
[Engl,  tr.],  ii,  151,  152)  confirms  their  statement.  Ge- 
senius is  also  inexact  in  identifying  these  maritime. 
Ilagarenes  with  the  ’Aypaloi  of  Ptolemy,  v,  19,  2,  and 
Eratosthenes,  in  Strabo,  xvi,  767,  and  Pliny,  vi,  28.  If 
the  tribes  indicated  in  these  classical  authors  be  the 
same  (which  is  doubtful),  they  are  much  more  correctly 
identified  by  an  older  writer,  Dr.  T.  Jackson  (H'ojvt* 
[ed.  Oxon.],  i,  220),  who  says:  “The  seat  of  such  as 
the  Scripture  calls  J/ugarens  was  in  the  desert  Arabia, 
betwixt  Gilead  and  Euphrates  (1  Chron.  v,  9, 10).  This 
people  were  called  by  the  heathen  'Aypcuoi,  Agra*i, 
rightly  placed  by  Ptolemy  in  the  desert  Arabia,  and  by 
Strabo  in  that  very  place  which  the  Scripture  makes 
the  easteni  bounds  of  Ishmael’s  posterity,  to  wit,  next 
unto  the  inhabitants  of  Ilavilah.”  Amid  the  difficulty 
of  identification,  some  modem  geographers  have  distrib-. 
uted  the  classical  Agnci  in  various  localities.  Thus,  in 
Forster’s  maps  of  Axabia,  they  occupy  both  the  district 
between  Gilead  and  the  Euphrates  in  the  north,  and 
also  the  western  shores  of  the  Persian  Gidf.  The  fact 
seems  to  be  that  many  districts  in  Arabia  were  called 
by  the  generic  appellation  of  JIugarile  or  JIagarene,  no 
doubt  after  Hagar;  as  Keturah,  another  of  Abraham’s 
concubines,  occasioned  the  rather  vaguelv-used  name  of 
Ketureans  for  other  tribes  of  the  Arabian  peninsula 
(Forster,  Geog.  of  A rabia,  ii,  7).  In  the  very  section  of 
Abulfeda  which  we  have  above  quoted,  that  geographer 
(after  the  author  of  the  Moshtarek)  reminds  us  that  the 
name  I/ajar  (Hagar)  is  as  extensive  in  meaning  in 
Arabia  as  Sham  (Syria)  and  Irak  elsewhere;  in  like 
manner  Rommel,  within  a page  or  two,  describes  a Ha- 
gar in  the  remote  province  of  Yemen;  this,  although 
an  unquestionably  different  place  (Reinaud,  ii,  1-137, 
note),  is  yet  confounded  with  the  maritime  Hajar,  In 
proof  of  the  uncertainty  of  the  situation  of  places  in 
Arabia  of  like  name,  we  may  mention  that,  while  Abul- 
feda,  Edrisi,  Giauhari,  and  Golius  distinguish  between 
the  Ilagarenes  of  the  north-east  coast  and  those  of  the 
remote  sonth-west  district  which  we  have  just  men- 
tioned, Nassir  Edin,  Olugbcig,  and  Biisching  confouud 
them  as  identical.  Winer,  Pealw.  s.  v.  Hagariter,  men- 
tions yet  another  Chajar,  which,  though  slightly  differ- 
ent in  form,  might,  be  written  much  like  our  Avord  in 
IlebreAV  iOiltt,  and  is  actually  identical  Avith  it  in  the 
Syriac  (Assemanni,  Biblioth.  Orient.  Ill,  ii,  753).  This 
place  Avas  in  the  province  of  llejaz,  on  the  Red  Sea,  on 
the  main  route  betAveen  Damascus  and  Mecca.  Such 
being  the  uncertainty  connected  Avith  the  sites  of  these 
Arab  tribes,  avo  the  less  hesitate  to  place  the  Hagarenes 
of  the  Psalm  in  the  neighborhood  of  Edom,  Moab,  and 
Ammon,  in  the  situation  which  Avas  in  Saul’s  time  occu- 
pied by  the  Hagarites,  “ near  the  main  road  Avhich  led” 
[or,  more  correct hr,  in  the  belt  of  countiy  Avhich  stretch- 
ed] “from  the  head  of  the  Red  Sea  to  the  Euphrates” 
(Smith’s  Diet,  of  Geog.  s.  v.  A grad ; see  also  Bochart, 
Phaleg  [edit.  Villeraandy],  IV,  ii,  225).  The  mention 
both  of  Ishmaelites  and  Hagarenes  in  this  Psalm  has  led 
to  the  opinion  that  they  are  separate  nations  here  meant. 
The  A'erse,  liOAveA'cr,  is  in  the  midst  of  a poetic  parallel- 
ism, in  Avhich  the  clauses  are.  synonymous  and  not  anti- 
thetic (comp.  A*er.  5-11),  so  that  if  “Edom  and  the  Ish- 
maelitcs”  is  not  absolutely  identical  in  geographical  sig- 
nification Avith  “Moab  and  the  Hagarenes,”  there  is  at 
least  a poetical  identity  between  these  tAvo  groups  Avhich 
forbids  our  separating  them  Avidelv  from  each  other  in 
any  sense  (for  the  dispersed  condition  of  the  Hagarenes, 
see  also  Fuller,  Misc.  Sacr.  ii,  12). 

Combinations  marked  the  unrelenting  hostility  of 
their  neighbors  toAvards  the  Jcavs  to  a A*erv  late  period. 
One  of  these  is  mentioned  in  1 Mace,  v,  as  dispersed  by 
Judas  Maccabaeus.  “The  children  of  B:ean”  (with  Bai- 
av)  of  ver.  4 haA-e  been  by  Hitzig  conjectured  to  be  the 
same  as  our  Hagarenes ; there  is.  hoAvever,  no  other 
ground  for  this  opinion  than  their  vicinity  to  Edom  and 
Ammon,  ami  the  difficulty  of  making  them  fit  in  with 


HAGGAI 


IIAGEXAU,  CONFERENCE  OF  18 


any  other  tribe  as  conveniently  as  with  that  which  is 
the  subject  of  this  article  (see  j.  < Ushausen,  die  Psalmen, 
1*.  340). 

3.  In  the  passage  from  Baruch  iii,  23  there  are  attrib- 
uted to  ‘“the  Agarenes”  (pialilies  of  wisdom  for  which 
the  Arabian  nation  lias  Ion"  been  celebrated,  skill  in 
proverbial  philosophy  (comp,  Freytag, . I rub.  Prov.  tom. 
iii.  pra*f.) ; in  this  aecomiilishnient  they  have  associated 
with  them  “the  merchants  of  Moran  and  of  Theman.” 
This  is  not  the  place  to  discuss  the  site  of  Meran,  which 
some  have  placed  on  the  Persian  t lull,  and  others  on  the 
Hed  Sea;  it  is  enough  to  observe  that  their  mercantile 
habits  gave  them  a shrewdness  in  practical  knowledge 
which  rendered  them  worthy  of  comparison  with  ‘‘the 
merchants  of  Theman'’  or  Edom.  Forster  makes  these 
Themnnese  to  be  inhabitants  of  the  maritime  Bahrain, 
and  therefore  llagarenes  (i,  303);  but  in  this  he  is  fla- 
grantly inconsistent  with  his  own  good  canon  (i,  291): 
“ The  n ime  of  the  son  of  Eliphaz  and  of  his  descendants 
[the  E lomites]  is  uniformly  written  Temaa  in  the  orig- 
inal Hebrew,  and  that  of  the  son  of  Ishmael  and  his  fam- 
ily [the  llagarenes  or  Ishmaelites]  as  uniformly  Tenia 
[without  the  it].”  The  wisdom  of  these  Tlieraanese  j 
merchants  is  expressly  mentioned  in  Jer.  xlix,  7,  and  j 
Obadiali,  ver.  8.  The  llagarenes  of  this  passage  we 
would  place  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  shores  of  the 
Persian  tiulf,  where  (see  1)  (iesenius  and  others  placed 
“the  llagarites”  after  their  conquest  by  the  trans-Jor- 
danic  Israelites.  The  clause,  “That  seek  wisdom  on 
earth”  [that  is,  “who  acquire  experience  and  intelli- 
gence from  intercourse  with  mankind”]  (the  Sept,  ot 
iKVjrorrrtf  ti)v  (jvvtaiv  oi  iir't  r// £ yijtj,  is  surely  cor- 
rupt, because  meaningless:  by  the  help  of  the  Vulgate 
and  the  Syriac  it  has  been  conjectured  by  some  [by 
Il'.ivemick  and  Fritzsche,  ad  loc.,  for  instance]  that  in- 
stead of  oi  iiri  we  should  read  ti)v  i~t,  q.  d.  “the  wis- 
dom [or  common  sense]  which  is  cognizant  of  the  earth 
— its  men  and  manners;”  an  attainment  which  mercan- 
tile persons  acquire  better  than  all  else),  seems  to  best 
fill  iu  with  the  habits  of  a seafaring  and  mercantile 
race  (see  Fritzsche,  dun  finch  liar  itch,  p.  192;  and  1 Iii  v- 
ernick,  whose  words  he  quotes:  “ llagareni  terrain  quasi 
perlust rantes  dicuntur.  quippe  mercatores  longe  celeber- 
rimi  nntiqui.-simis  jamjam  temporibus”).— Ivitto,  s.  v. 

Hagenau,  Conference  of,  a theological  confer- 
ence called  bv  the  Herman  emperor  in  1339  in  order  to 
bring  about  a reunion  between  Protestants  and  Homan 
( 'at  Indies.  1 1 aving  originally  been  convoked  to  Worms, 
it  was  transferred  to  llagenau  in  consequence  of  an 
epidemic  prevailing  in  the  former  city.  It  lasted  from 
June  12  to  July  16,  1310.  As  it  was  not  deemed  safe 
to  send  Luther  without  a special  protection,  and  as  Mc- 
Unctbon  fell  sick  during  the  journey,  the  Protestants 
were  represented  by  Bronz,  Dsiander,  (’apito,  Cruciger, 
and  Myeonius;  and  the  Homan  Catholics  by  Eck,  Fa- 
ber, ami  Cochheus.  The  conference  led  to  no  definite 
results.  It  was  agreed  that  an  equal  number  of  repre- 
sentatives, chosen  by  (be  two  parties,  should  meet  at 
Worms,  and  resume  the  negotiations  for  a union Her- 
zog, xix,  5*9.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Hag'erite  [or  Ha’gerite]  (Ileb.with  the  art.  ha- 
llmjri,  the  / Ini/ rile ; Sept,  d ’Aynpcrt/r,  Vulg. 

Atjnrt n.i),  a designation  of  Jaziz  (q.  v.),  one  of  David’s 
agricultural  olliccrs  (l  ( ’liron.  xxvii,  31).  See  Hagak- 
ITli, 

Haggadah  (Ileb.  anecdote , legend),  in  the  Talmud 
and  with  the  Habbis  the  name  for  traditional  stories,  le- 
gends, etc.  used  iu  the  interpretation  and  elucidation  of 
the  law  and  the  prophets.  Many  of  the  haggndoth  iu 
the  Talmud  are  absurd  and  preposterous,  and  thev  are 
not  held  by  the  best  nubbins  as  authoritative.  *Mai- 
monidos  says  of  (hem:  “ Beware  that  you  take  not  these 
words  of  the  haehimim  (wise)  literally,  lor  this  would  be 
degrading  to  the  sacred  doctrine,  and  sometimes  to  con- 
tradict it.  Seek  rather  the  hidden  sense;  and  if  you 
camiot  find  the  kernel,  let  the  shell  alone,  and  confess  ‘ 1 


cannot  understand  this’”  ( Pernsh  Hammishnayoth).— 
Fiirst,  Knlturgeschichte  d.  Juden.  i,  74 ; Etheridge,  Intro- 
duction to  Uebr.  Lit.  p.  182 ; Jost,  Gescli.  d.  Juden.  i,  17S ; 
ii,  313.  The  Haggadah  frequently  refers  to  the  Ilala- 
chah  (rule,  norm),  the  oral  law  of  tradition,  brief  sen- 
tences established  by  the  authority  of  the  Sanhedrim,  in 
which  the  law  was  inteqireted  and  applied  to  individual 
cases,  and  which  were  designated  as  the  “ sentences  of 
the  elders.”  See  Midrash.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hag'gai  (Ileb.  Cliaggay “’an , festive;  Sept,  and 
Joseph.  ’Ayyflioe  ; Jerome  and  Vulg.  Aggmts  or  Ilag- 
geeus),  the  tenth  in  order  of  the  twelve  minor  prophets, 
and  the  first  of  the  three  who,  after  the  return  of  the 
Jews  from  the  Babylonian  exile,  prophesied  in  Pales- 
tine. Of  the  place  and  year  of  his  birth,  his  descent, 
and  the  leading  incidents  of  his  life,  nothing  is  known 
which  can  be  relied  on  (see  Oehler,  in  Herzog’s  EncyJd. 
v,  471  sq.).  The  more  fabulous  traditions  of  Jewish 
writers,  who  pass  him  for  an  assessor  of  the  Synagoga 
Magna,  and  enlarge  on  his  literary  avocations,  have 
been  collected  by  Carpzov  ( Introductio  in  P.  T.  iii, 42(5). 
Some  interpreters,  indeed,  taking  in  its  literal  sense  the 
expression  !H!"P  ( maluk  Yehocdh)  in  i,  13,  have 

imagined  that  he  was  an  angel  in  human  shape  (Je- 
rome, Comm,  ad  loc.).  Some  ancient  writers  assert  that 
he  was  born  in  Babylon,  and  while  yet  a young  man 
came  to  Jerusalem,  when  Cyrus,  in  the  year  B.C.  536, 
allowed  the  Jews  to  return  to  their  country  (2  Chron. 
xxxiv,  23;  Ezra  i,  1) ; the  new  colony  consisting  chief- 
ly of  people  belonging  to  the  tribes  of  Judah,  Ben  jamin, 
and  Levi,  with  a few  from  other  tribes.  According  to 
the  same  tradition,  he  was  buried  with  honor  near  the 
sepulchres  of  the  priests  (Isidor.  Hispal.  c.  49;  Pseudo- 
Dorot liens,  in  Chron.  Paseh.  151,  d).  It  has  hence  been 
conjectured  that  he  was  of  priestly  rank.  Ilaggai, 
Zechariah,  and  Malachi,  according  to  the  Jewish  writ- 
ers, were  the  men  who  were  with  Daniel  when  he  saw 
the  vision  related  in  Dan.  x,7,  and  were  after  the  cap- 
tivity members  of  the  Croat  Synagogue,  which  consist- 
ed of  120  elders  ( Cozri , iii,  65).  The  Seder  Olam  Zuta 
places  their  death  in  the  52d  year  of  the  Medes  and 
Persians,  while  the  extravagance  of  another  tradition 
makes  Haggai  survive  till  the  entry  of  Alexander  the 
Creat  into  Jerusalem,  and  even  till  the  time  of  our 
Saviour  (Carpzov,  Introd ,).  In  the  Homan  martyrologv 
Hosea  and  Haggai  are  joined  in  the  catalogue  of  saints 
| (Acta  Sundor.  4 Julii).  See  Ezra. 

This  much  appears  from  Ilaggai’s  prophecies  (ch.  i, 
1,  etc.),  that  he  flourished  during  the  reign  of  the  Per- 
sian monarch  Darius  11  ystaspis,  who  ascended  the  throne 
B.C.  521.  It  is  probable  that  he  was  one  of  the  exiles 
who  returned  with  Zerubbabel  and  Joshua  ; and  Ewald 
(die  Proph.  d.  A It.  Ii.)  is  even  tempted  to  infer  from  ii, 
3,  that  he  may  have  been  one  of  the  few  survivors  who 
had  seen  the  first  Temple  in  its  splendor  (Bleek,  L bile  it. 
]i.549).  The  rebuilding  of  the  Temple,  which  was  com- 
menced iu  the  reign  of  Cyrus  (B.C.  535),  was  suspended 
during  the  reigns  of  his  successors,  Cambyses  and  Pseu- 
do-Smerdis,  in  consequence  of  the  determined  hostility 
of  the  Samaritans.  ( )n  the  accession  of  Darius  Ilystas- 
pis  (B.C.  521),  the  prophets  Haggai  and  Zechariah  urged 
the  renewal  of  the  undertaking,  and  obtained  the  per- 
mission and  assistance  of  the  king  (Ezra  v,  1 ; vi,  14; 
Josephus,  .1  nt.  xi,  4).  Animated  by  the  high  courage 
(magni  spiritus,  Jerome)  of  these  devoted  men,  the  peo- 
ple prosecuted  the  work  with  vigor,  and  the  Temple 
was  completed  and  dedicated  in  the  sixth  year  of  Da- 
rius (B.C.  516).  See  Tkmim.k. 

The  names  of  Ilaggai  and  Zechariah  are  associated 
in  the  Sept,  in  the  titles  of  Psa.  cxxxvii,  cxlv-cxlviii ; 
in  the  A ulgate  in  those  of  Psa.  cxi,  cxlv;  and  in  the 
Peshito  Syriac  in  those  of  Psa.  cxxv,cxxvi,  cxlv,  cxlvi, 
cxlvii,  cxlviii.  It  may  be  that  tradition  assigned  to 
these  prophets  the  arrangement  of  the  ahove-mentioned 
psalms  for  use  in  the  Temple  service,  just  as  Psa.  Ixiv  is 
in  the  Vulgate  attributed  to  Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel,  and 


HAGGAX 


19 


TIAGGTA1I 


the  name  of  the  former  is  inscribed  at  the  head  of  Psa. 
exxxvi  in  the  Sept.  According  to  Pseudo-Epiphanies 
(I)e  1 itts  Proph.),  Haggai  was  the  first  who  chanted 
the  Hallelujah  in  the  second  Temple:  “wherefore,”  he 
adds,  “we  sav  £ Hallelujah,  which  is  the  hymn  of  Ilag- 
gai  and  Zeehariah.’  ” H aggai  is  mentioned  in  the  Apoc- 
rypha as  Aggeus,  in  1 Esdr.  vi,  1 ; vii,  3 ; 2 Esdr,  i,  40 ; 
and  is  alluded  to  in  Ecclus.  xlix,  11  (coni]),  llag.  ii,23), 
and  Hob.  xii,  26  (Hag-  n,  6). — Smith,  s.  v. ; Ivitto,  s.  v. 
See  Zkciiaiuah. 

HAGGAI,  Prophecy  of.  These  vaticinations  are 
comprised  in  a book  of  two  chapters,  and  consist  of  dis- 
courses so  brief  and  summary  as  to  have  led  some  Ger- 
man theologians  to  suspect  that  they  have  not  come 
down  to  us  in  their  original  complete  form,  but  are  only 
an  epitome  (Eichhorn,  Einleituny  in  das  .1.  T.  iii,  § 598; 
Jahn.  Introductio  in  libras  sacros  Vet.  Feed.  edit.  2,  Vien- 
na?, 1814,  § 156). 

Their  object  generally  is  to  urge  the  rebuilding  of  the 
Temple,  which  had,  indeed,  been  commenced  as  early  as 
B.C.  535  (Ezra  iii,  10),  but  was  afterwards  discontinued, 
the  Samaritans  having  obtained  an  edict  from  the  Per- 
sian king  (Ezra  iv,  7)  which  forbade  further  procedure, 
and  influential  Jews  pretending  that  the  time  for  re- 
building the  Temple  had  not  arrived,  since  the  seventy 
years  predicted  by  Jeremiah  applied  to  the  Temple  also 
(Zeeli.  i,  2).  As  on  the  death  of  Psendo-Smcrdis  (the 
“Artaxerxks”  of  Ezra  iv,  see  ver.  24),  and  the  conse- 
quent termination  of  his  interdict,  the  Jews  still  contin- 
ued to  wait  for  the  end  of  the  seventy  years,  and  were 
only  engaged  in  building  splendid  houses  for  them- 
selves, I Iaggai  began  to  prophesy  in  the  second  year  of 
Darius,  B.C.  520. 

His  first  discourse  (eh.  i),  delivered  on  the  first  day 
of  the  sixth  month  of  the  year  mentioned,  denounced 
the  listlessness  of  the  Jews,  who  dwelt  in  their  “panel- 
led houses,”  while  the  temple  of  the  Lord  was  roofless 
and  desolate.  The  displeasure  of  God  was  manifest  in 
the  failure  of  all  their  efforts  for  their  own  gratification. 
The  heavens  were  “stayed  from  dew,”  and  the  earth 
was  “stayed  from  her  fruit.”  They  had  neglected  that 
which  should  have  been  their  first  care,  and  reaped  the 
due  wages  of  their  selfishness  (i,  4—1 1 ).  The  words  of  the 
prophet  sank  deep  into  the  hearts  of  the  people  and  their 
leaders.  They  acknowledged  the  voice  of  God  speak- 
ing by  his  servant,  and  obeyed  the  command.  Their 
obedience  was  rewarded  with  the  assurance  of  God’s 
presence  (i,  13),  and  twenty-four  days  afterwards  the 
building  was  resumed.  The  second  discourse  (ii,  1-9), 
delivered  on  the  twenty-first  day  of  the  seventh  month, 
shows  that  a month  had  scarcely  elapsed  when  the  work 
seems  to  have  slackened,  and  the  enthusiasm  of  the  peo- 
ple abated.  The  prophet,  ever  ready  to  rekindle  their 
zeal,  encouraged  the  flagging  spirits  of  the  chiefs  with 
the  renewed  assurance  of  God’s  presence,  and  the  fresh 
promise  that,  stately  and  magnificent  as  was  the  Temple 
of  their  wisest  king,  the  glory  of  the  latter  house  should 
be  greater  than  the  glory  of  the  former  (ii,  3-9).  The 
third  discourse  (ii,  10—19),  delivered  on  the  twenty- 
fourth  day  of  the  ninth  month,  refers  to  a period  when 
building  materials  had  been  collected,  and  the  workmen 
had  begun  to  put  them  together.  Yet  the  people  were 
still  comparatively  inactive,  and  after  two  months  we 
thus  find  him  again  censuring  their  sluggishness,  which 
rendered  worthless  all  their  ceremonial  observances. 
But  the  rebuke  was  accompanied  by  a repetition  of  the 
promise  (ii,  19).  The  fourth  and  last  discourse  (ii,  20- 
23),  delivered  also  on  the  twenty-fourth  day  of  the  ninth 
month,  is  exclusively  addressed  to  Zerubbabel,  the  po- 
litical chief  of  the  new  Jewish  colony,  who,  it  appears, 
had  asked  for  an  explanation  regarding  the  great  polit- 
ical revolutions  which  Haggai  had  predicted  in  his  sec- 
ond discourse : it  comforts  the  governor  by  assuring 
him  they  would  not  take  place  very  soon,  and  not  in  his 
lifetime.  As  Zerubbabel  was  prince  of  Judah,  the  rep- 
resentative of  the  royal  family  of  David,  and,  as  such, 
the  lineal  ancestor  of  the  Messiah,  this  closing  predic- 


tion foreshadows  the  establishment  of  the  Messianic 
kingdom  (sec  Hengstenherg,  Christoloyy,  iii,  243  sq.) 
upon  the  overthrow  of  the  thrones  of  the  nations  (ii,  23). 

The  style  of  the  discourses  of  1 Iaggai  is  suitable  to 
their  contents:  it  is  pathetic  when  he  exhorts,  it,  is  ve- 
hement when  he  reproves,  it  is  somewhat  elevated 
when  he  treats  of  future  events,  and  it  is  not  altogether 
destitute  of  a poetical  coloring,  though  a prophet  of  a 
higher  order  would  have  depicted  the  splendor  of  the 
second  Temple  in  brighter  hues.  The  language  labors 
under  a poverty  of  terms,  as  may  he  observed  in  the 
constant  repetition  of  the  same  expressions,  which  Eich- 
horn ( Einleituny , § 599)  attributes  to  an  attempt  at  or- 
nament, rendering  the  writer  disposed  to  recur  frequent- 
ly to  a favorite  expression. 

The  prophetical  discourses  of  1 Iaggai  are  referred  to 
in  the  Old  and  New  Testament  (Ezra  v,  1;  vi,  14; 
Ileb.  xii,  20;  comp.  Ilagg.  ii,  7,  8,  22).  In  most  of  the 
ancient  catalogues  of  the  canonical  books  of  the  Old 
Testament  Haggai  is  not,  indeed,  mentioned  by  name; 
but,  as  they  specify  the  twelve  minor  prophets,  he  must 
have  been  included  among  them,  as  otherwise  their 
number  woidd  not  be  full.  Josephus,  mentioning  llag- 
gai  and  Zeehariah  {Ant.  xi,4,  5), calls  them  evo  3rpo</»j- 
rat.  (See  generally  Bertholdt,  Einleituny,  iv,  169 ; Da- 
vidson, in  Horne’s  Intraduc.  new  ed.  ii,  972  sq. ; Ilassc, 
Gesck.  der  A . B.  p.  203  sq. ; Smith,  Scripture  Testimony, 
i,  283  sq.) — Kitto,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v. 

Special  commentaries  on  the  whole  of  this  prophecy 
exclusively  have  been  written  l>y  Rupert  us  Titiensis, 
In  Ayyceum  (in  Opp.  i) ; Melanehthon,  .4  r (foment  urn  fin 
Opp.  ii) ; Eekc,  Commmtarins  (Saling.  1538,  8vo) ; Wi- 
eelius,  Ena r ratio  (Mog.  1541);  Varenius,  Exercitutiones 
(Rost.  1548, 1550,  4to) ; Draeonis,  Explicatio  (Lub.  1549, 
fol.) ; Mercer,  Scholia  (Baris,  1557, 4to) ; Tilkington,  Ex- 
position (London,  1560,  8vo) ; Brocardus,  Interpretatio 
[includ.  some  other  books]  (L.  B.  1580,  8vo) ; ( irvmeus, 
Comment arius  (Gen.  1581,  8vo;  translated  into  English, 
Loud.' 1586,  12mo) ; Reinbeck,  Exercitutiones  (Brunsw. 
1592,  4to) ; Balwin,  Commenturius  (including  Zeeli.  and 
Mai.]  (Viteml).  1610,  8vo)  ; Tarnovius,  (’onmentarius 
(Rostock,  1624,  4 to) ; Will  ins,  Commenturius  [including 
Zech.  and  Mai.]  (Brem.  1638, 8vo)  ; Reynolds.  Interpre- 
tation (Loud.  1649, 4to) ; Ffeffinger,  Xotie  (Argent.  17l)3, 
4to) ; Woken,  A dnotudones  (Lips.  1719.  4to) : Kail,  l)i&- 
sertationes  (s.  1.  1771-3,  4to) ; Bossier,  I Host  ratio  (Lund. 
1799,  4to) ; Scheibel,  Observufiones  (Vratisl.  1822,  4to); 
Moore,  Notes,  etc.  [including  Zech.  and  Mai.]  (X.  V. 
1856,  8vo);  Kohler,  Erklanmy  (Erlangen,  I860,  8vo) ; 
Aben-Ezra’s  annotations  on  Haggai  have  been  transla- 
ted by  Abicht  (in  his  Select <p  Pabb.  Lips.  1705),  Lund 
(Lqisal.  1706),  and  Chytr.eus  (ib.  cod.);  Abaibanel’s  by 
Seherzer  (Lpz.  1633,  *1705)  and  Mundin  (Jena,  1719): 
Kimehi’s  by  Nol  (Par.  1657).  Expositions  of  particular 
passages  are  those  of  Stiiudlin  [on  ii.  1-9]  (Tub.  1<*4), 
Bcnzel  [on  ii,  9]  (in  bis  Syntaym.  Dissertt.  ii,  116  sq.), 
Sartorius  [on  ii,  7]  (Till).  1756),  Yessehuir  [on  ii.  6-9] 
(in  Ills  Diss.  Phil.  No.  6),  Essen  [on  ii,  23]  (Yitemb. 
1759).  See  Prophets,  Mixon. 

Hag'geri  (Hell.  IlayrV,  "“Sfl,  a Ilayarite ; Sept. 
‘Arapat  v.  r.  ’Ayp/,  Yulg.  Ayarui).  “Mibliar.  soil  of 
Haggeri,”  was  one  of  the  mighty  men  of  David  s guard, 
according  to  the  catalogue  of  1 Citron,  xi,  38.  1 lie  par- 

allel passage— 2 Sam.  xxiii,36— has  “ Bani  the  Gaditt” 
(*"iM"l).  This  Kennieott  thinks  was  the  original,  from 
which  “Haggeri”  has  been  corrupted  {Dissert,  p.  214). 
The  Targnm  has  Bar  Gedd  (S4HS  “2). — Smith,  s.  v. 
See  Hagarene. 

Haggeity,  Jonx,  a minister  of  the  Methodist  Epis- 
copal Church,  was  horn  in  Prince  George  County.  Md„ 
in  1747,  He  was  converted  under  the  ministry  of  John 
King  about  1771.  lie  began  to  preach  among  his 
neighbors  the  same  year,  and  continued  to  labor  dili- 
gently for  the  Church,  under  the  direction  of  Straw- 
bridge,  Rankin,  and  King,  till  he  entered  the  regular 
itinerancy  in  the  “year  1779.”  He  preached  both  in 


IIAGGI 


20 


HAGIOGRAPHA 


two  books  [viz. Ezra  andNehemiah] ; 9.  Esther.  “Some, 
however,” lie  ad«ls,  “place  Ruth  and  Lamentations  among 
the  Hagiograplia  rather  than  among  the  prophetical 
books.”  We  rind  a different  arrangement  in  Josephus, 
who  reckons  thirteen  prophetical  books,  and  four  con- 
taining hymns  and  moral  precepts  ( J pion,  i,  8);  from 
which  it  would  appear  that  after  the  time  of  Josephus 
the  Jews  comprised  many  books  among  the  prophets 
which  had  previously  belonged  to  the  Hagiographa.  It 
has.  however,  been  considered  as  more  probable  that  Jo- 
sephus had  no  authority  from  manuscripts  for  his  classi- 
fication. 

The  earliest  notice  which  we  find  of  these  divisions 
is  that  contained  in  the  prologue  to  the  book  of  Eccle- 
siasticus,  written  B.C.  cir.  HO,  the  author  of  which  re- 
fers to  the  Law,  the  Prophets,  and  the  other  books;  by 
which  last  were  most  probably  meant  the  Hagiographa. 
Philo  also  speaks  of  the  Laws,  the  Prophets,  the  Hymns, 
and  the  other  books,  but  without  classifying  them.  In 
the  New  Testament  we  find  three  corresponding  divis- 
ions mentioned,  viz.  the  Law,  the  Prophets,  and  the 
Psalms;  which  last  book  has  been  supposed  to  have 
given  its  name  to  the  third  division,  from  the  circum- 
stance of  its  then  being  the  first  in  the  catalogue  (Luke 
xxiv,  44).  Havernick,  however  ( IJandbuch , p.  78),  sup- 
poses that  Luke  calls  the  Hagiographa  by  the  name  of 
Psalms,  rather  on  account  of  the  poetical  character  of 
several  of  its  parts.  The  “ book  of  the  Prophets”  is  re- 
ferred to  in  the  New  Testament  as  a distinct  volume 
(Acts  vii,  42,  where  the  passage  indicated  is  Amos  v,25, 
2G).  It  is  well  known  that  the  second  class  was  divided 
by  the  Jews  into  the  early  Prophets,  viz.  Joshua,  Judges, 
Samuel,  and  Kings ; and  the  later  Prophets,  viz.  Isaiah, 
Jeremiah,  Ezekiel  (called  the  major  prophets),  and  the 
book  of  the  twelve  (minor)  prophets. 

When  this  division  of  books  was  first  introduced  it  is 
now  impossible  to  ascertain.  Probably  it  commenced 
after  the  return  from  the  exile,  with  the  first  formation 
of  the  canon.  Still  more  diffieidt  is  it  to  ascertain  the 
principle  on  which  the  classification  was  formed.  The 
rabbinical  writers  maintain  that  the  authors  of  the  Ke- 
tubim  enjoyed  only  the  lowest  degree  of  inspiration,  as 
they  received  no  immediate  communication  from  the 
deity,  like  that  made  to  Moses,  to  whom  God  spoke  face 
to  face;  and  that  they  did  not  receive  their  knowledge 
through  the  medium  of  visions  and  dreams,  as  was  the 
case  with  the  prophets  or  the  writers  of  the  second  class; 
hut  still  that  they  felt  the  Divine  Spirit  resting  on  them 
and  inspiring  them  with  suggestions.  This  is  the  view 
maintained  by  Abarbanel  (Prof.  in  Proph.  priores,  fol. 
20,  1),  Kimchi  (Prof.  in  Psalm.),  Maimonides  (J lore 
Xebochim,  ii, 45, p. 317),  and  Elias  Levita  (Tisbi)  ; which 
last  writer  defines  the  word  -'T-  to  mean  a work  writ- 
ten by  ( Urine  inspiration.  The  placing  of  Ruth  among 
the  Hagiographa,  and  especially  the  separation  of  Lam- 
entations from  Jeremiah,  seems,  however,  to  be  irrecon- 
cilable with  this  hypothesis;  nor  is  it  easy  to  assign  a 
satisfactory  reason  why  the  historical  books  of  Joshua, 
Judges,  Samuel,  and  Kings  should  be  placed  among  the 
Prophets,  and  the  book  of  Chronicles  among  the  llagio- 
t/rupha.  The  reasons  generally  assigned  for  this,  as 
well  as  for  placing  in  the  third  class  the  books  of  Psalms, 
Daniel,  and  Job,  are  so  fanciful  and  unsatisfactory  as  to 
have  led  Christian  writers  to  form  other  and  more  defi- 
nite classifications.  It  will  suffice  to  mention  the  reason 
assigned  by  Rabbi  Kimchi  for  excluding  Daniel  from 
the  book  of  Prophets,  viz.  that  he  has  not  equalled  the 
other  prophets  in  his  visions  and  dreams.  Others  as- 
sign the  late  date  of  the  book  of  Daniel  as  the  reason  for 
the  insertion  of  it,  as  well  as  of  some  historical  books, 
in  the  Hagiographa,  inasmuch  as  the  collection  of  the 
prophets  was  closed  at  the  date  of  the  composition  of 
this  book  (De  Wettc,  § 255).  Bertholdt,  who  is  of  this 
opinion  (Einleitnng,  i,  70  sq.),  thinks  that  the  word  Ke- 
2 Ijavid  tiro  nnrfa.  •*  v i </--;/■  • *"•  *•  «<>u;  tubim  means  “hooks  newly  introduced  into  the  canon” 

itl’  i Cautid,',  ,;  'i' !'X  Xli ; 4VK,,hC-  81)-  ItaWtellwK  (j  Mentie  de*  Daniel,  etc.,  p. 
’ ’ ’ * * ^/  iromc  cs  > & Esdras,  I 25  sq.)  follows  the  ancient  opinions  of  the  Rabbins,  and 


English  and  German.  He  was  instrumental  in  the  con- 
version of  not  a few  men  of  ability,  who  became  orna- 
ments of  the  ministry.  He  located,  owing  to  the  sick- 
ness »f  his  wife,  in  1792,  and  settled  in  Baltimore,  where 
he  c uitiimed  to  preach  with  great  acceptance.  He  was 
one  of  the  original  ciders  of  the  Church,  and  died  in  the 
faith  in  1*23,  aged  seventy-six  years. — Stevens,  History 
of  the  M.  E.  I 'hurck,  ii,  GO,  49G ; iii,  144, 1 4G. 

Hag'gi  (lleb.  Chaggi',  XT*,  festive ; Sept.  ’Ayyif), 
the  second  of  the  seven  sons  of  the  patriarch  Gad  (Gen. 
>:lvi,  It!),  and  progenitor  of  the  family  of  IIaggites 
(Numb,  xxvi,  15;  Sept.  Ayyi)»  B.C.  prob.  ante  1784. 

Haggi'ah  (Heb.  Chaggigah ',  rrxn.  festival  of  Je- 
hovah ; Sept.  ’Ayyia),  a Levite  of  the  famiiv  of  Merari, 
apparently  the  sou  of  Shimea  and  father  of  Asaiah, 
which  last  seems  to  have  been  contemporary  with  Da- 
vid (1  Chrou.  vi,  30  [Heb.  15 J).  B.C.  ante  1043. 

Hag'gi te  (Heb.  only  as  a collect,  with  the  art.  ha- 
Chaggi',  "inn  [for  "^Hn] ; Sept,  b ’Ayyi,  Vidg.  Agi- 
ter , A. V.  “the  Haggites”),  the  family  title  of  the  de- 
scendants of  the  son  of  Gad  of  the  same  [Heb.]  name 
( Numb,  xxvi,  15).  See  IIaggi. 

Hag'gith  (lleb.  Chaggith’,  r“fn ; Sept.  ’AyyiS  v. 
r.  4>tyyicr,  but  Ayytij  in  1 Chron.  ii,  3;  Josephus  Ay- 
yiii),  Ant.  vii,  14,4),  a wife  of  David,  only  known  as  the 
mother  of  Adonijah  (2  Sam. iii, 4;  1 Kings  i, 5, 1 1 ; ii,  13; 
1 Chron.  iii,  2);  but  apparently  married  to  David  after 
his  accession  to  the  throne.  B.C.  1053.  See  David. 
‘•Her  son  was,  like  Absalom,  renowned  for  his  hand- 
some presence.  In  the  first  and  last  of  the  above  pas- 
sages Haggith  is  fourth  in  order  of  mention  among  the 
wives,  Adonijah  being  also  fourth  among  the  sons.  His 
birth  happened  at  Hebron  (2  Sam.  iii,  2,  5)  shortly  af- 
ter that  of  Absalom  (1  Kings  i,  G,  where  it  will  be  ob- 
served that  the  words  ‘his  mother’  are  inserted  by  the 
translators)”  (Smith,. s.  v.).  The  Heb.  name  is  merely 
the  fcm.  of  the  adj.  that  appears  in  the  names  IIaggi, 
etc.,  and  seems  to  lie  indicative  of  festivity  in  the  relig- 
ious sense  [see  Festival];  Fiirst  renders  it  “bom  at 
the  l east  of  Tabernacles”  (Heb.  Lex.  s.  v.),  and  51  r. 
Grove  (in  Smith,  tit  sup.)  regards  it  as  —“a  dancer,” 
from  the  primitive  sense  of  the  root  55H. 

Ha'gia  (’Ayta  or  'Ayiri,  Yulg.  Aggia),  given  in  the 
Apocrypha  (1  Esd.  v,  34)  as  the  name  of  one  of  the 
•■servants  of  Solomon”  whose  “sons”  returned  to  Jeru- 
salem after  the  exile;  instead  of  Hattil  (q.  v.)  of  the 
Heb.  text  (Ezra  ii,  57 ; Nell,  vii,  59). 

Hagidgad.  See  IIou-iia-gidgad. 

Hagiographa,  ’A ytbygenpa  (Holy  Writings),  a term 
first  found  in  Kpiphauius  (Panariinn,  p.  58),  who  used 
it,  as  well  as  ygarptta,  to  denote  the  third  division  of 
the  Scriptures,  called  by  the  Jews  or  the 

Writings,  consisting  of  Jive  books  [see  Megillotii],  viz. 
the  t liree poems  (r~X),  Job,  Proverbs,  and  the  1‘salms, 
and  the  two  hooks  of  Chronicles. 

These  divisions  are  found  in  the  Talmud  (Baba  Bath- 
ra,  lol.  1,  ed.  Amsterdam),  where  the  sacred  books  are 
clii ssitied  under  the  Law,  the  Prophets,  and  the  11  Vi/- 
mgs  ( A et n hi m).  The  last  are  thus  enumerated  (/.  r.) : 
Ihith,  the  book  (srpher)  of  Psalms,  Job,  Proverbs.  Eccle- 
siastes (Ao heleth),  the  Song  of  Songs,  Lamentations, 
Daniel,  and  the  books  ( nugilloth ) of  Fsllier,  Ezra,  and 
< hroincles.  The  Jewish  writers,  however,  do  not  uui- 
lormly  follow  this  arrangement,  as  tliev  sometimes  place 
the  Isalms  or  the  book  of  Job  first,  among  the  hagio- 
grapha. Jerome  gives  the  arrangement,  followed  bv  the 
Jews  m his  time,  lie  observes  that  they  divided  the 


HAHIROTH 


21 


IIAIIN 


maintains  that  the  book  of  Daniel  was  placed  in  the 
Hagiographa  in  consequence  of  the  lower  degree  of  in- 
spiration attached  to  it;  but  herein  he  is  opposed  by 
Iliivcrnick  ( /ftmtlbuck , p.  62).  De  Wette  (§  13)  sup- 
poses that  the  first  two  divisions  (the  Law  and  the 
Prophets)  were  closed  a little  after  the  time  of  Neliemi- 
ah  (compare  2 Maec.  ii,  13,  14),  and  that  perhaps  at  the 
end  of  the  Persian  period  the  Jews  commenced  the 
formation  of  the  Hagiographa,  which  long  remained 
“ changeable  and  open.”  The  collection  of  the  Psalms 
was  not  yet  completed  -when  the  two  first  parts  were 
formed.  See  Kkthubim. 

It  has  been  concluded  from  Matt,  xxiii,  35,  and  Luke 
xi,  51,  compared  with  Luke  xxiv,  14,  that  as  the  Psalms 
were  the  first,  so  were  Chronicles  the  last  book  in  the 
Hagiographa  (Carpzov,  Introd.  iv,  25).  If,  when  Jesus 
spoke  of  the  righteous  blood  shed  from  the  blood  of 
Abel  (Gen.  iv,  8)  to  that  of  Zechariali,  he  referred,  as 
most  commentators  suppose,  to  Zechariali,  the  son  of 
Jehoiada  (2  Chron.  xxiv,  20, 21),  there  appears  a pecul- 
iar appositeness  in  the  appeal  to  the  first  and  the  last 
books  in  the  canon.  The  book  of  Chronicles  still  holds 
the  last  place  in  the  Hebrew  Bibles,  which  are  all  ar- 
ranged according  to  the  threefold  division.  The  late 
date  of  Chronicles  may  in  some  measure  account  for  its 
separation  from  the  book  of  Kings;  and  this  ground 
holds  good  whether  we  fix  the  era  of  the  chronicler, 
with  Zunz,  at  about  B.C.  260,  or,  with  Movers,  we  con- 
ceive him  to  have  been  a younger  contemporary  of  Ne- 
hemiah,  and  to  have  written  about  B.C.  400  ( Kntische 
Untersuchung  iiher  de  Biblisehc  Chronik , Bonn,  1834). 
The  circumstance  of  the  existence  of  a few  acknowl- 
edged later  additions,  such  as  1 Chron.  iii,  19-24,  does 
not  militate  against  this  hypothesis,  as  these  may  have 
been  supplied  by  the  last  editor.  See  Ciihonicles, 
Books  of.  De  Wette  conceives  that  the  genealogy  in 
this  passage  comes  down  only  to  the  third  generation 
after  Nehemiah.  See  Canon  of  Scripture. 

The  word  Hagiographa  is  once  used  by  Jerome  in  a 
peculiar  sense.  Speaking  of  Tobit,  he  asserts  that  the 
Jews,  cutting  off  this  book  from  the  catalogue  of  the  di- 
vine Scriptures,  place  it  among  those  books  which  they 
call  Hagiographa . Again,  of  Judith  he  says,  “By  the 
Jew’s  it  is  read  among  the  Hagiographa,  whose  author- 
ity is  not  sufficient  to  confirm  debated  points;”  but,  as 
in  the  latter  instance,  the  greater  number  of  MSS.  read 
A pocrypha,  which  is  doubtless  Jthe  true  reading,  it  is 
highly  probable  that  the  -word  Hagiographa,  used  in 
reference  to  the  book  of  Tobit,  has  arisen  from  the  mis- 
take of  a transcriber.  The  two  words  were  in  the  Mid- 
dle Ages  frequently  used  as  synonymous.  See  Deute- 
ro-c anon icar.  “Hagiographa” lias  also  been  used  by 
Christian  writers  as  synonymous  with  Holy  Scripture. 

The  Alexandrian  translators  have  not  been  guided 
by  the  threefold  division  in  their  arrangement  of  the 
books  of  Scripture.  The  different  MSS.  of  the  Sept, 
also  vary  in  this  respect.  In  the  Vatican  Codex  (w  hich 
the  printed  editions  chiefly  follow’)  Tobit  and  Judith  are 
placed  between  Nehemiah  and  Esther.  Wisdom  and 
Ecclesiastieus  follow  Canticles.  Baruch  and  Lamenta- 
tions follow’  Jeremiah,  and  the  Old  Testament  concludes 
with  the  four  books  of  Maccabees.  Luther  (who  intro- 
duced into  the  Bible  a peculiar  arrangement,  which  in 
the  Old  Testament  has  been  followed  in  the  English 
Authorized  Version)  was  the  first  who  separated  the  ca- 
nonical from  the  other  books,  Not  only  do  the  Alex- 
andrian translators,  the  fathers,  and  Luther  differ  from 
the  Jew’s  in  the  order  of  succession  of  the  sacred  books, 
but  among  the  Jews  themselves  the  Talmudists  and 
Masorites,  and  the  German  and  Spanish  MSS.  follow 
each  a different  arrangement. — Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Bible. 

Hagiolatry.  See  Saints,  Worship  of. 

Hahiroth.  See  Pi-ha-hiroth. 

Hahn,  August,  a distinguished  German  Protestant 
theologian,  Orientalist,  and  opponent  of  rationalism,  was 
born  at  Grossosterhausen,  near  Querfurt,  in  Prussian 


Saxony,  March  27,  1792.  His  father  died  before  he 
was  nine  years  old,  but  his  pastor,  Stosseu,  generously 
instructed  the  orphan  with  his  own  son,  and  secured  his 
admission  to  the  gymnasium  at  Eisleben.  In  l«]0 
Hahn  entered  the  University  of  Leipsic,  where,  he  tells 
us  (Preface  to  Lehrbueh  des  christliehen  Glaubens,  2 1 
ed.),  he  lost  his  early  faith  and  peace,  the  fruits  of  a pi- 
ous mother’s  teachings,  and  became  imbued  with  the 
prevailing  rationalism.  After  a three-years’  course,  in 
w’liich,  besides  adding  to  his  stock  of  classic  and  theo- 
logical learning,  he  had  studied  Oriental  languages  and 
literature,  especially  ►Syriac  and  Arabic,  he  engaged  in 
teaching.  In  1817  lie  entered  the  newly-established 
theological  school  at  Wittenberg,  where,  under  happier 
religions  influences  and  inspirations,  he  regained  his 
lost  faith  and  peace,  and  w'as  henceforth  active  in  seek- 
ing to  impari  them  to  other  minds  and  hearts.  In  1819 
he  was  appointed  professor  extraordinary,  and  in  1821 
ordinary  professor  of  theology  in  the  University  of 
Kbnigsberg,  and  during  his  occupancy  of  that  post  pub- 
lished Bardesanes , Gnostieus,  Syrorum  primus  hynmulo- 
gus  (Leipsic,  1819),  a work  which  earned  for  him  the 
doctorate  of  theology.  This  wras  followed  by  several 
other  publications  in  patristic  literature,  viz.  Be  gnosi 
Marcionis  (1820) : — A ntitheses  Marcionis,  etc.  (1823) : — 
Bas  Evangelium  Marcions,  etc.  (1823):  — Be  < 'a none 
Marcionis  (1824)  s — Chrestomathla  Syriaca,  s.  S.  Ephra- 
im, etc.  (in  conjunction  with  Seiffert)  (1825) ; besides 
treatises  in  several  periodicals.  Being  called  in  1826  to 
the  professorship  of  theology  in  the  University  of  Leip- 
sic, Hahn  was  thrown  into  the  midst  of  theological  con- 
troversy, and  gave  expression  to  his  antagonism  to  the 
Rationalists  in  his  treatise  Be  Rationalismi , qui  dieitur, 
Vera  Indole  et  qua  cum  Xaturalismo  contineatur  rat  lone. 
(Leipsic,  1827),  in  which  he  asserts  the  necessity  of 
snpranatural  revelation,  and  the  inability  of  man  by 
nature  to  attain  “certain  and  complete  knowledge  of 
religions  truths,”  and  aims  to  show’  historically  that 
rationalism  had  always  been  regarded  by  the  Church  as 
hostile  to  Christianity,  and  that  it  was  the  offspring  of 
naturalism  and  deism.  He  developed  this  antagonism 
still  further  in  his  Offine  Erkldrung  an  die  erange/isehe 
Kirehe  zunachst  in  Sachsen  and  Preusscn  (1827),  where- 
in he  maintains  that  Rationalists  cannot  be  considered 
as  Christian  teachers,  and  ought  in  conscience  to  with- 
draw from  the  evangelical  Church.  His  efforts  in  favor 
of  evangelical  orthodoxy  were  continued  in  his  Lthr- 
buck  des  christliehen  Glaubens  (1828;  2d  ed.  1857),  and 
Sendschreiben  an  Bret  Schneider  iiher  die  Lage  des  Chris- 
tenthums  in  uvserer  Z tit  and  das  ]’erhiiltniss  christlieher 
Theologie  zur  Wissenschajl  iiberhaupt  (1832).  The  last 
w’ork  especially  led  to  his  call  to  Breslau  in  1833  as  pro- 
fessor, and  his  appointment  as  consistorial  counsellor,  a 
position  of  great  importance  in  the  direction  of  eccle  si- 
astical affairs.  In  1844  he  vras  made  general  superin- 
tendent for  Silesia,  which  post  he  filled  until  his  death, 
May  13,  1863,  and  in  which  he  was  able  to  exert  con- 
siderable influence  in  behalf  of  the  evangelical  party 
among  the  clergy.  The  most  important  of  his  writings 
not  already  mentioned  are,  Bibliothek  tier  Symbol e and 
Glaubensregeln  dtr  upostol.-cathohschn  Kirehe  (1842): 
— Theologisch-hirchliche  Annalen  (Breslau,  1842-44):— 
Bas  Bekenntnvss  der  ecangelischen  Kirehe  and  die  ortli - 
natorische  Verpjlichtung  Hirer  Dientr  (1847) : — Bas  Bt- 
kenntniss  der  ecangelischen  Kirehe  in  seinem  1 erhdltms.  e 
zu  demder  romischen  und  griechisehen  (!8o3) : — Predigten 
und  Beden  vnter  den  Bexeegungen  in  Kirehe  und  Staat 
seit  dem  J.  1830  (1852).  See  obituary  notice  of  Halm 
in  the  Allgemeine  Kirehen-Zeitung  for  1N(>3,  No.  75-7/. 
and  an  autobiographical  sketch  of  his  life  up  to  1830  in 
Dietzsch’s  Homilei.  Journal,  1830,  vol.  ii,  pt.  i;  Herzog, 
Beal-Enei/klop.  xix,  593  sq. ; Hoefer,  A our.  Bing.  Gene- 
rale,  xxiii,  164 ; New  A mer.  Cyclop,  viii,  634.  (J. \\  . M.) 

Hahn,  Heinrich  August,  eldest  son  of  August 
Hahn,  was  born  at  Kbnigsberg  June  19,  1821,  and  died 
I Dec.  1,  1861,  at  Greifswald.  After  having  studied  at 
[ Breslau  and  Berlin,  he  devoted  himself  to  Old-Testa- 


22 


HAIME 


IIAIIX 


meat  exegesis  and  theology.  Tie  was  tutor  ( prirat - 
docent)  at  lirolau  in  1815,  went  thence  in  1846  to  Kb- 
nigsberg  as  professor  ad  interim  on  the  death  of  1 1 ;i- 
veruick,  and  in  1 85 1 became  professor  extraordinary, 
and  in  i860  ordinary  professor  at  Greil'swald,  succeed- 
ing Kosegarten.  He  edited  Hiivernick’s  I'orlesunyen 
iiber  die  Theoloyie  des  A.  Test  aments  (1848).  1 Its  chief 

works  are,  a dissertation  Ik  Spe  immortuHtatis  sub  Vet. 
Tt  stum,  etc.;  Veleris  testam.  sententia  de  X at  lira  hominis 
(l, SIC)  ■.—< ' ommeutar  idler  das  finch  Iliob  (1850) : — Uber- 
setznny  mid  ErkUiruny  des  Ilohen  Lit  des  (1852):— A r- 
kldrnny  ran  Jesaia  Kapiul  40-4(5  (forming  vol.  iii  of 
1 frechsler’s  commentary  on  Isaiah,  1857) Commentin' 
idler  das  Prediyerbuch  St  damns  (1800).  llis  works  evince- 
the  care  and  fidelity  which  characterized  the  man,  but 
his  criticisms  are  sometimes  marked  by  great  boldness, 
lie  was  a man  of  mild  temper  and  great  purity  of  char- 
acter. See  . I llyemeine  Kirchen-Zeituny  for  1802,  No.  20 ; 
llerzog,  Ileal- Encyklop.  xix,  597.  (J.  W.  M.) 

Hahn,  Michael,  a German  theosophist,  was  born 
Feb.  2,  1758,  at  Altdorf,  near  lldblingen,  Wilrtemberg. 
The  son  of  a peasant,  he  was  from  early  youth  under 
the  influence  of  profound  religious  convictions,  and  de- 
voted himself,  in  retirement,  to  the  study  of  the  Bible, 
and  of  the  works  of  prominent  theosophists,  as  Behmen 
and  Oetinger.  lie  claimed  to  receive  from  Goil  special 
revelations,  and  wrote  down  their  contents.  As  a speak- 
er in  the  meetings  of  the  Pietists  he  attracted  large 
crowds,  was  several  times  summoned  before  the  consis- 
tory to  defend  himself  against  the  charge  of  heresy,  but 
was  finally  allowed  to  spend  the  last  twenty-four  years 
of  his  life  without  further  annoyance  upon  an  estate  of 
t lie  duchess  Francisca  of  Wiirtcmberg.  There  he  died 
in  great  peace  in  1819.  The  followers  of  Halm,  called 
the  Michelians , constitute  an  organized  communion 
which  has  never  separated  from  the  State  Church,  but 
the  members  of  which  annually  meet  for  consultation, 
ami,  in  particular,  for  making  provision  for  the  poor. 
The  celebrated  colony  of  Kornthal  (q.  v.),  near  St  ut  t- 
grird,  was  organized  under  the  direct  influence  of  Hahn. 
The  works  of  llalm,  which  contain  a complete  specula- 
tive theosophy,  have  been  published  at  Tubingen  in  12 
vols.  (1819  si].).  Several  of  his  hymns  were  received 
by  Albert  Knapp  into  the  hymn-book  which  he  prepared 
for  the  use  of  the  State  Church.  Bike  many  of  the  Wiir- 
temberg  Pietists,  Ilahn  believed  in  the  final  restoration 
of  all  things.  - Hang,  Die  Sekle  der  M ichelianer, , in  S7«- 
ditn  der  erany.  Geist/irhkeit  Wiirtemberys.  vol.  xi;  111- 
geu,  Hist,  theuloy.  Zeitschrift , 1841 ; Ubmer,  Kirchl.  Ge- 
srhiehte  I Viirtemberys ; 1 1 erzog,  Ileal- Enajkl.  v,  472.  (A. 

Ha'i'  (Gen.  xii,  8;  xiii,  3).  See  Ai. 

Hail.  See  Bkn-iiail. 

Hail ! (v/upf,  rejoice , as  often  rendered;  “farewell” 
also),  a salutation,  importing  a wish  for  the  welfare  of 
the  person  addressed  (Luke  i,  28;  in  mockery,  Matt, 
xxvii,  29,  etc.).  It  is  now  seldom  used  among  us,  but 
was  customary  among  our  Saxon  ancestors,  and  import- 
id  us  much  as  - Joy  to  you,”  or  ‘-Health  to  you;”  in- 
cluding in  (lie  term  health  all  kinds  of  prosperity.— Cal- 
mot,  s.  v.  See  Gkkktincj. 

Hail  ("P2,  burad yd\a£a),  or  congealed  rain,  is 
the  symbol  ol  the  divine  vengeance  upon  kingdoms  and 
nations,  the  enemies  of  God  mid  of  his  people.  As  a 
liail-storm  is  generally  accompanied  by  lightning,  and 
seems  to  be  produced  by  a certain  electrical  state  of  the 
atmosphere,  so  we  find  in  Scripture  bait  and  fire,  i.  e. 
lightning,  mentioned  together  (Kxod.  ix,  23;  compare 
dob  xxxviii,  22,  23;  l’sa.  cv,  32;  Ixxviii,  18 ; cxlviii, 
8;  xviii,  13).  Sec  I’laiuks  or  Ei;vi»t.  That  hail! 
though  uncommon,  is  not  absolutely  unknown  in  Egypt, 
we  have,  the  testimony  of  Mansieben  and  Mancoiiys! 
who  had  heard  it  thunder  during  their  stay  at  Alexan-  I 
dria,  the  former  on  the  1st  of  January,  and  the  latter  on  I 
the  17th  and  18th  of  the  same  month;  on  the  same  day  j 


it  also  hailed  there.  Perry  also  remarks  that  it  hails, 
though  seldom,  in  January  and  February  at  Cairo.  Po- 
cocke  even  saw  hail  mingled  with  rain  fall  at  Fium  in 
February  (compare  Exod.  ix,  34).  Korte  also  saw  hail 
fall.  Jomard  says,  “ I have  several  times  seen  even  hail 
at  Alexandria.”  Yohiev  mentions  a hail-storm  which 
he  saw  crossing  over  Mount  Sinai  into  that  country, 
some  of  whose  frozen  stones  he  gathered;  “and  so,”  he 
says,  “I  drank  iced  water  in  Egypt.”  Hail  was  also 
the  means  made  use  of  by  God  for  defeating  an  army 
of  the  kings  of  Canaan  (Josh,  x,  11).  In  this  passage 
it  is  said,  “ The  Lord  cast  down  great  stones  from  heav- 
en upon  them” — i.  e.  hail-stones  of  an  extraordinary 
size,  and  capable  of  doing  dreadful  execution  in  their 
fall  from  heaven.  Some  commentators  are  of  opinion 
that  the  miracle  consisted  of  real  stones,  front  the  cir- 
cumstance that  stones  only  are  mentioned  in  the  pre- 
ceding clause;  but  this  is  evidently  erroneous,  for  there 
are  many  instances  on  record  of  hail-stones  of  cuormous 
size  and  weight  falling  in  different  countries,  so  as  to 
do  immonse  injury,  and  to  destroy  the  lives  of  animals 
and  men.  In  Palestine  and  the  neighboring  regions, 
bail-stones  are  frequent  and  severe  in  the  mountainous 
districts  and  along  the  coasts;  but  in  the  plains  and 
deserts  hail  scarcely  ever  falls.  In  the  elevated  region 
of  Northern  Persia  the  hail-stones  are  frequently  so  vi- 
olent as  to  destroy  the  cattle  in  the  fields;  and  in  Com. 
Porter’s  Letters  from  Constantinople  and  its  Environs  (i, 
44)  there  is  an  interesting  account  of  a terrific  hail- 
storm that  occurred  on  the  Bosphorus  in  the  summer 
of  1831,  which  fully  bears  out  the  above  and  other  Scrip- 
ture representations.  Many  of  the  lumps  picked  up  af- 
ter the  storm  weighed  three  quarters  of  a pound.  In 
Isa.  xxviii,  2,  which  denounces  the  approaching  de- 
struction by  Shalmaneser,  the  same  images  are  employ- 
ed. Hail  is  mentioned  as  a divine  judgment  by  the 
prophet  Haggai  (ii,  17).  The  destruction  of  the  Assyr- 
ian army  is  pointed  out  in  Isa.  xxx,  30.  Ezekiel  (xiii, 
11)  represents  the  wall  daubed  with  untempered  mortar 
as  being  dest  royed  by  great  hail-stones.  Also  in  his 
prophecy  against  Gog  (xxxviii,  22)  lie  employs  the 
same  symbol  (compare  Rev.  xx,  9).  The  hail  and  lire 
mingled  with  blood,  mentioned  in  Rev.  viii,  7,  are  sup- 
posed to  denote  the  commotions  of  nations.  The  great 
hail,  in  Rev.  xi,  19,  denotes  great  and  heavy  judgments 
on  the  enemies  of  true  religion;  and  the  grievous  storm, 
in  xvi,  21,  represents  something  similar,  and  far  more 
severe.  So  Horace  (Odes,  i,  2);  comp.  Virgil  (.  En.  iv, 
120,  101 ; ix,  009)  and  Livy  (ii,  62,  and  xxvi,  11). 

IIail-stone  0^2  “,"X,  then  barad',  a stone  of  lutil). 
See  above. 

Haime,  Jonx,  a soldier  in  the  English  army,  and 
one  of  Mr.  Wesley’s  preachers.  He  was  born  at  Shaftes- 
bury, Dorsetshire,  in  1710,  and  was  bred  a gardener,  and 
afterwards  a button-maker.  From  early  life  he  lived 
in  great  wickedness,  and  in  constant  agony  of  convic- 
tion. In  1739  he  enlisted  in  a regiment  of  dragoons, 
and  some  time  after  he  was  converted;  but, being  very 
ignorant,  he  alternately  lost  and  regained  his  hope,  but 
constantly  labored  to  save  others.  At  last  he  heard 
and  conversed  with  Mr.  Wesley,  much  to  his  comfort. 
The  regiment  was  sent  to  Flanders  in  1743,  from  which 
time  till  Feb.  1745,  he  was  in  despair  and  great  agony. 
At  that  time,  while  marching  into  Germany,  his  evi- 
dence of  pardon  returned,  and,  encouraged  by  Mr.  Wes- 
ley’s letters,  lie  began  to  preach  in  the  army.  At  the 
battle  of  1 )ettingcn  he  showed  great  gallantry.  In  Slay, 
1/41,  the  army  went  to  Brussels,  and  here  his  labors 
were  the  means  of  a great  and  remarkable  revival  in 
the  army  and  city,  l’art  of  the  time  Haime  had  six 
preachers  under  him,  although  the  regular  chaplains 
opposed  him.  But  the  duke  of  Cumberland  and  gen- 
eral Ronsonby  were  his  friends  and  patrons,  and  his 
piety  oflifc,  and  the  valor  of  his  “Methodists”  in  every 
battle,  commanded  universal  admiration  and  respect. 
On  the  6tli  of  April,  1746,  he  fell  into  despair,  and  from 


HAIIi 


23 


HAIR 


that  (late  he  lived  fur  twenty  years  “ in  agony  of  soul 
yet  all  the  time,  in  Germany,  England,  Ireland,  he 
ceased  not  with  all  the  energy  of  despair  to  labor, 
preaching  often  20  or  30  times  a week,  and  seeing  thou- 
sands of  souls  converted  under  his  efforts,  while  his  own 
soul  was  tilled  with  anguish  and  darkness.  At  the  end 
of  this  time  he  once  more  obtained  the  evidence  of  ac- 
ceptance with  God.  lie  died  Aug.  IK,  1784,  at  Whit- 
church, in  Hampshire. — Jackson,  hires  of  Early  Meth- 
odist Preachers , i,  147  ; Stevens,  History  of  Methodism, 
vol.  ii. 

Hair  (properly.  sear',  S'p/g)  is  frequently  men- 
tioned in  Scripture,  chiefly  with  reference  to  the  head. 
In  scarcely  anything  has  the  caprice  of  fashion  been 
more  strikingly  displayed  than  in  the  various  forms 
which  the  taste  of  different  countries  and  ages  has  pre- 
scribed for  disposing  of  this  natural  covering  of  the 
head.  See  Head. 

1.  Of  the  more  ancient  nations,  the  Egyptians  appear 
to  have  been  the  most  uniform  in  their  habits  regarding 
it,  and,  in  some  respects  also,  the  most  peculiar.  We 
learn  from  Herodotus  (ii,  30,  iii,  12)  that  they  let  the 
hair  of  their  head  and  beard  grow  only  when  they  were 
in  mourning,  and  that  they  shaved  it  at  other  times. 
Even  in  the  case  of  young  children  they  were  wont  to 
shave  the  head,  leaving  only  a few  locks  on  the  front, 
sides,  and  back,  as  an  emblem  of  youth.  In  the  case  of 
royal  children,  those  on  the  sides  were  covered  and  in- 
closed in  a bag,  which  hung  down  conspicuously  as  a 
badge  of  princely  rank  (Wilkinson,  ii,  327,  328).  “So 


Egyptian  Manner  of  wearing  the  Hair.  (From  statues  of 
an  officer  of  rank  and  his  wife  or  sister,  19th  dynasty. 
British  Museum.) 

particular  were  they,”  says  Wilkinson,  “ on  this  point, 
that  to  have  neglected  it  was  a subject  of  reproach  and 
ridicule;  and  whenever  they  intended  to  convey  the 
idea  of  a man  of  low  condition,  or  a slovenly  person,  the 
artists  represented  him  with  a beard”  (Ancient  Erjyp- 
tians,  iii,  957).  Slaves  also,  when  brought  from  foreign 
countries,  having  beards  on 'them  at  their  arrival,  “were  I 
obliged  to  conform  to  the  cleanly  habits  of  their  mas- 
ters; their  beards  and  heads  were  shaved,  and  they 
adopted  a close  cap.”  This  universal  practice  among 
the  Egyptians  explains  the  incidental  notice  in  the  life  | 
of  Joseph,  that  before  going  in  to  Pharaoh  he  shaved  j 
himself  (Gen.  xli,  14);  in  most  other  places  he  would 
have  combed  his  hair  and  trimmed  his  beard,  but  on  no 
account  have  shaved  it.  The  practice  was  earned  there 
to  such  alength  prob- 
ably from  the  tenden- 
cy of  the  climate  to 
generate  the  fleas  and 
other  vermin  which 
nestle  in  the  hair ; 
and  hence  also  the 
priests,  who  were  to 
be  the  highest  em- 
bodiments of  cleanli- 
ness, were  wont  to 
shave  their  whole 
bodies  every  third 

day  (Herod,  ii,  37). 

Head-dress  of  an  ancient  Egyptian  ^ is  singular,  how-. 
Lady.  (From  a mummy-case.)  ever,  and  seems  to  in-  i 


dicate  that  notions  of  cleanliness  did  not  alone  regulate 
the  practice,  that  the  women  still  wore  tluir  mtural 
hair,  long  and  plaited,  often  reaching  down  in  the  form 
of  strings  to  the  bottom  of  the  shoulder-blades.  Many 
of  the  female  mummies  have  been  found  with  their  hair 
thus  plaited,  and  in  good  preservation.  The  modern 
ladies  of  Egypt  come  but  little  behind  their  sisters  of 
olden  time  in  this  respect  (see  Lane’s  Modern  Er/tjp- 
tians,  i,  <i0).  Yet  what  was  remarkable  in  the  inhab- 
itants of  a hot  climate,  while  they  removed  tluir  nat- 
ural hair,  they  were  accustomed  'to  wear  wigs,  which 
were  so  constructed  that  ‘‘they  far  surpassed.”  says 
Wilkinson,  ‘‘  the  comfort  and  coolness  of  the  modern 
turban,  the  reticulated  texture  of  the  ground-work  on 
which  the  hair  was  fastened  allowing  the  heat  of  the 
head  to  escape,  while  the  hair  effectually  protected  it 
from  the  sun”  (.4«r.  Er/ypf.  iii,  354).  Josephus  (l.ije, 
§ 11)  notices  an  instance  of  false  hair  (7rtpi(itTt)  Koprj) 
being  used  for  the  purpose  of  disguise.  Among  the 
Medes  the  wig  was  worn  by  the  upper  classes  (Xcnoph. 
Cyrop.  i,  3,  2).  Sec  Head-dues*. 

2.  The  precisely  opposite  practice,  as  regards  men, 

would  seem  to  have  prevailed  among  the  ancient  As- 
syrians, and,  indeed,  among  tire  Asiatics  generally.  In 
the  Assyrian  sculptures  the  hair 
always  appears  long,  combed  close- 
ly down  upon  the  head,  and  shed- 
ding itself  in  a mass  of  curls  on  the 
shoulders.  “The  heard  also  was 
allowed  to  grow  to  its  full  length, 
and,  descending  low  on  the  breast, 
was  divided  into  two  or  three  rows 
of  curls.  The  mustache  was  also  I 
carefully  trimmed  and  curled  at^ 
the  ends”  (Layard’s  Nineveh,  ii,  Assyrian  Manner  of 
327).  Herodotus  likewise  testifies  wearing  the  Hair, 
that  the  Babylonians  wore  their  British  Museum.)11 

hair  long  (i,  195).  The  very  long 

hair,  however,  that  appears  in  the  figures  on  the  monu- 
ments is  supposed  to  have  been  partly  false,  c sort  of 
head-dress  to  add  to  the  effect  of  the  natural  hair.  The 
excessive  pains  bestowed  by  the  ancient  nations  in  ar- 
ranging t lie  hair  and  beard  appears  almost  foppish  in 
contrast  with  their  stern,  martial  character  (Layard’s 
Nineveh,  ii,  254).  .See  Beard.  The  practice  of  the 
modern  Arabs  in  regard  to  the  length  of  their  hair  va- 
ries; generally  the  men  allow  it  to  grow  its  natural 
length,  the  tresses  hanging  down  to  the  breast,  and 
sometimes  to  the  waist,  affording  substantial  protection 
to  the  head  and  neck  against  the  violence  of  the  sun’s 
ravs  (Burekhardt's  Notes,  i,  49 ; Wellsted’s  Travels,  i, 
33,  53,  73). 

3.  Among  the  ancient  Greeks,  the  general  admiration 
of  long  hair,  whether  in  men  or  women,  is  evidenced  by 
the  expression  Kapj]Ko/.u'nor-(g  ’A\moi  (“well-combecl 
Greeks"),  so  often  occurring  in  Ilomcr;  and  by  the 
saying,  which  passed  current  among  the  people,  that 
hair  was  the  cheapest  of  ornaments;  and  in  the  repre- 
sentations of  their  divinities,  especially  Bacchus  and 
Apollo,  whose  long  locks  were  a symbol  of  perpetual 
youth.  But  the  practice  varied.  While  the  .Spartans 


Grecian  Manner  of  wearing  the  nair,  (Hope’s  Costumes.) 


in  earlier  times  wore  the  hair  long,  and  men  as  well  as 
women  were  wont  to  have  it  tied  in  a knot  over  the 
crown  of  the  head,  at  a later  period  they  were  accus- 
tomed to  Avear  it  short.  Among  the  Athenians,  also,  it 
is  understood  the  later  practice  varied  somcAvliat  from 


24 


HAIL 


HAIIt 


the  earlier,  though  the  information  is  less  specific.  The 
Homans  passed  through  similar  changes:  in  more  an- 
cient times  the  hair  of  the  head  and  beard  was  allowed 
to  grow:  but  about  three  centimes  before  the  Christian 
lera  barbers  began  .to  be  introduced,  and  men  usually 
wore  the  hair  short.  Shaving  was  also  customary,  and 
a long  beard  was  regarded  as  a mark  of  slovenliness. 
An  instance  even  occurs  of  a man,  M.  Livius,  who  had 
been  banished  for  a time,  being  ordered  by  the  censors 
to  have  his  beard  shaved  before  he  entered  the  senate 
(Livy,  xxvii,  34).  See  Diadem. 

This  later  practice  must  have  been  quite  general  in 
the  (iospcl  age,  so  far  as  the  head  is  concerned,  among 
the  countries  which  witnessed  the  labors  of  the  apostle 
Taul,  since,  in  his  first  epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  he  re- 
fers to  it  as  an  acknowledged  and  nearly  universal  fact. 
“Doth  not  even  nature  itself  teach  you,”  he  asked, 
‘•that  if  a man  have  long  hair,  it  is  a shame  to  him? 
lint  if  a woman  have  long  hair,  it  is  a glorj'  to  her ; for 
her  hair  is  given  her  for  a covering”  (l  Cor.  xi,  14,  15). 
The  only  person  among  the  more  ancient  Israelites  who 
is  expressly  mentioned  as  having  done  in  ordinary  life 
what  is  here  designated  a shame,  is  Absalom;  but  the 
manner  in  which  the  sacred  historian  notices  the  ex- 
travagant regard  he  paid  to  the  cultivation  of  his  hair 
not  obscurely  intimates  that  it  was  esteemed  a piece  of 
foppish  effeminacy  (2  Sam.  xiv,  26).  To  the  Corinthi- 
ans the  letter  of  Paul  was  intended  to  administer  a time- 
ly reproof  for  allowing  themselves  to  fall  in  with  a style 
of  manners  which,  by  confounding  the  distinctions  of 
the  sexes,  threatened  a banefid  influence  on  good  mor- 
als; and  that  not- only  the  Christian  converts  in  that 
city,  but  the  primitive  Church  generally,  were  led  by 
this  admonition  to  adopt  simpler  habits,  is  evident  from 
the  remarkable  fact  that  a criminal,  who  came  to  trial 
under  the  assumed  character  of  a Christian,  was  proved 
to  the  satisfaction  of  the  judge  to  be  an  impostor  by  the 
luxuriant  and  frizzled  appearance  of  his  hair  (Tcrtul- 
lian,  Apol.;  Fleurv,  Les  Jlceurs  des  Chretiennes).  See 
Shaving.  With  regard  to  women,  the  possession  of 
long  and  luxuriant  hair  is  allowed  by  Paul  to  be  an  es- 
sential attribute  of  the  sex — a graceful  and  modest  cov- 
ering provided  by  nature ; and  yet  the  same  apostle 
elsewhere  (1  Tim.  ii,  9)  concurs  with  Peter  (1  Pet.  iii,  9)  ! 
in  launching  severe  invectives  against  the  ladies  of  his 
day  for  the  pride  and  passionate  fondness  they  displayed 
in  the  elaborate  decorations  of  their  head-dress.  See 
Plaiting  the  IIair.  As  the  hair  was  pre-eminently 
the  “ instrument  of  their  pride”  (Ezck.  xvi,  39,  margin), 
all  the  resources  of  ingenuity  and  art  were  exhausted  to 
set  it  off  to  advantage  and  load  it  with  the  most  daz- 
zling finery;  and  many,  when  they  died,  caused  their 
longest  locks  to  be  cut  off,  and  placed  separately  in  an 
urn,  to  be  deposited  in  their  tomb  as  the  most  precious 
and  valued  relics.  In  the  daily  use  of  cosmetics,  they 
bestowed  the  most  astonishing  pains  in  arranging  their 
long  hair,  sometimes  twisting  it  round  on  the  crown  of 
the  head,  where,  and  at  the  temples,  by  the  aid  of  gum, 
which  they  knew  as  well  as  the  modern  belles,  they 
wrought  it  into  a variety  of  elegant  and  fancifid  devices 
— figures  of  coronets,  harps,  wreaths,  diadems,  emblems 
of  public  temples  and  conquered  cities,  being  formed  by 
the  mimic  skill  of  the  ancient  friseur;  or  else  plaiting  it 
into  an  incredible  number  of  tresses,  which  hung  down 
the  back,  and  which,  when  necessary,  were  lengthened 
by  ribbons  so  as  to  reach  to  the  ground,  and  were  kept 
at  lull  stretch  by  the  weight  of  various  wreaths  of 
pearls  and  gold  fastened  at  intervals  down  to  the  ex- 
tremity. From  some  Syrian  coins  in  bis  possession 
Hartmann  {Die  Uebnierinn  am  Dutzfinche)  has  given  this 
description  of  the  style  of  the  Hebrew  coiffure;  and 
many  ancient  busts  and  portraits  which  have  been  dis- 
covered exhibit  so  close  a resemblance. to  those  of  East- 
ern ladies  in  the  present  day  as  to  show  that  the  same 
elaborate  and  gorgeous  disposition  of  their  hair  has  been 
the  pride  of  Oriental  females  in  every  age.  (See  below.) 
From  the  great  value  attached  to  a profuse  head  of  hair 


arose  a variety  of  superstitious  and  emblematic  observ- 
ances, such  as  shaving  parts  of  the  head,  or  cropping  it 
in  a particidar  form ; parents  dedicating  the  hair  of  in- 
fants (Tertullian,  De  Anima)  to  the  gods;  young  wom- 
en theirs  at  their  marriage,  warriors  after  a successful 
campaign ; sailors  after  deliverance  from  a storm  ; hang- 
1 ing  it  up  on  consecrated  trees,  or  depositing  it  in  tem- 
! pies;  burying  it  in  the  tomb  of  friends,  as  Achilles  did 
i at  the  funeral  of  Patroclus ; besides  shaving,  cutting  off, 
or  plucking  it  out,  as  some  people  did  j or  allowing  it  to 
grow  in  sordid  negligence,  as  was  the  practice  with  oth- 
! ers,  according  as  the  calamity  that  befell  them  was  com- 
| mon  or  extraordinary,  and  their  grief  was  mild  or  vio- 
lent. See  Cuttings  in  tiie  Flesh. 

4.  The  Hebrews  were  fully  alive  to  the  importance 
of  the  hair  as  an  element  of  personal  beauty,  whether 
as  seen  in  the  “ curled  locks,  black  as  a raven,”  of  youth 
(Cant,  v,  11),  or  in  the  “crown  of  glory”  that  encircled 
the  head  of  old  age  (Prov.  xvi,  31).  Yet,  while  they 
encouraged  the  growth  of  hair,  they  observed  the  nat- 
ural distinction  between  the  sexes  by  allowing  the  wom- 
j en  to  wear  it  long  (Luke  vii,38;  John  xi,  2;  1 Cor.  xi, 
6 sq.),  while  the  men  restrained  theirs  by  frequent  clip- 
pings to  a moderate  length.  This  difference  between 
the  Hebrews  and  the  surrounding  nations,  especially  the 
Egyptians,  arose,  no  doubt,  partly  from  natural  taste,  but 
partly  also  from  legal  enactments,  and  to  some  extent 
from  certain  national  usages  of  wide  extent. 

(«.)  Clipping  the  hair  in  a certain  manner,  and  offer- 
ing the  locks,  was  in  early  times  connected  with  relig- 
ious worship : many  of  the  Arabians  practised  a pecul- 
iar tonsure  in  honor  of  their  god  Orotal  (Herod,  iii,  8), 
and  hence  the  Hebrews  were  forbidden  to  “ round  the 
corners  (nX3,  lit.  the  extremity)  of  their  heads”  (Lev. 
xix,  27),  meaning  the  locks  along  the  forehead  and  tem- 
ples, and  behind  the  ears.  (See  Alteneck,  Coma  Ile- 
breeorum, Wtcb.  1695.)  This  tonsure  is  described  in  the 
Sept,  by  a peculiar  expression,  cusot]  (=the  classical 
oicd<piov),  probably  derived  from  the  Hebrew 
(comp.  Bochart,  Canaan , i,  6,  p.  379).  That  the  prac- 
tice of  the  Arabians  was  well  known  to  the  Hebrews 
appears  from  the  expression  1“! K3  rounded  as 

to  the  locks,  by  which  they  are  described  (Jer.  ix,  26 ; 
xxv,  23;  xlix,  32;  see  marginal  translation  of  the  A. 
V.).  The  prohibition  against  cutting  off  the  hair  on 
the  death  of  a relative  (Deut.  xiv,  1)  was  probably 
grounded  on  a similar  reason.  See  Corner. 

(5.)  In  addition  to  these  regulations,  the  Hebrews 
dreaded  baldness,  as  it  was  frequently  the  result  of  lep- 
rosy (Lev.  xiii,40  sq.),  and  hence  formed  one- of  the  dis- 
qualifications for  the  priesthood  (Lev.  xxi,  20,  Sept.). 
See  Baldness.  The  rule  imposed  upon  the  priests, 
and  probably  followed  by  the  rest  of  the  community, 
was  that  the  hair  should  be  polled  (COS,  Ezek.  xliv, 
20),  neither  being  shaved,  nor  allowed  to  grow  too  long 
(Lev.  xxi,  5 ; Ezek.  1.  c.).  ’Wliat  was  the  precise  length 
usually  worn  we  have  no  means  of  ascertaining;  hut 
from  various  expressions,  such  as  03X“l  CSS,  lit.  to  let 
loose  the  head  or  the  hair  {= solvere  crines,  Yirgil,  JEn. 
iii,  65 ; xi,  35 ; demissos  luyentis  more  capillos,  Ovid,  Ep. 
x,  137)  by  unbinding  the  head-band  and  letting  it  go  di- 
shevelled (Lev.  x,  6,  A.  Y.  “ uncover  your  heads”),  which 
was  done  in  mourning  (compare  Ezek.  xxiv,  1 7) ; and 
again  “(TM  to  uncover  the  ear  previous  to  making 
any  communication  of  importance  (1  Sam.  xx,  2,  12; 
xxii,  8;  A.Y.,  margin),  as  though  the  hair  fell  over  the 
car,  we  may  conclude  that  men  wore  their  hair  some- 
what longer  than  is  usual  with  us.  The  word  CS3? 
used  as  = hair  (Numb,  vi,  5;  Ezek.  xliv,  20),  is  espe- 
cially indicative  of  its  free  growth  (sec  Knobel,  Comm. 
on  Lev.  xxi,  10).  In  2 Kings  i,  8, “a  hairy  man;”  lit- 
erally, “ a lord  of  hair,”  seems  rather  to  refer  to  the  flow- 
ing locks  of  Elijah  (q.  v.).  This  might  be  doubtful, 
even  with  the  support  of  the  Sept,  and  Josephus — dv~ 


HAIIi 


25 


IIAIIS 


Opunrov  Zaouv  — and  of  the  Targum  Jonathan — “Q& 
•jirO— the  same  word  used  for  Esau  in  Gen.  xxvii,  11. 
But  its  application  to  the  hair  of  the  head  is  corrobora- 
ted by  the  word  used  by  the  children  of  Bethel  when 
mocking  Elisha  (q.  v.).  “ Bald-head”  is  a peculiar  term 
Cl'jI'))  applied  only  to  want  of  hair  at  the  back  of  the 
head ; and  the  taunt  was  called  forth  by  the  difference 
between  the  bare  shoulders  of  the  new  prophet  and  the 
shaggy  locks  of  the  old  one.  Long  hair  was  admired 
in  the  case  of  young  men;  it  is  especially  noticed  in 
the  description  of  Absalom’s  person  (2  Sam.  xiv,  26), 
the  inconceivable  weight  of  whose  hair,  as  given  in  the 
text  (200  shekels),  has  led  to  a variety  of  explanations 
(comp.  Harmer’s  Observations,  iv,  321),  the  more  prob- 
able being  that  the  numeral  3 (20)  has  been  turned 
into  “1  (200) : Josephus  (Ant.  vii,8,  5)  adds  that  it  was 
eut  every  eighth  day.  The  hair  was  also  worn  long  by 
the  body-guard  of  Solomon,  according  to  the  same  au- 
thority (.l;tf.  viii,  7,  3,  pi]KWTag  icaOtiptvot  yni rag). 
The  care  requisite  to  keep,  the  hair  in  order  in  such 
cases  must  have  been  very  great,  and  hence  the  prac- 
tice of  wearing  long  hair  was  unusual,  and  only  resorted 
to  as  an  act  of  religious  observance,  in  which  case  it  was 
a “sign  of  humiliation  and  self-denial,  and  of  a certain 
religions  slovenliness”  (Lightfoot,  Exercit.  on  1 Cor.  xi, 
14),  and  was  practised  by  the  Nazarites  (Numb,  vi,  5 ; 
Jiulg.  xiii,  5;  xvi,  17 ; 1 Sam.  i,  11),  and  occasionally 
by  others  in  token  of  special  mercies  (Acts  xviii,  18) ; it 
was  not  unusual  among  the  Egyptians  when  on  a jour- 
ney (Diod.  i,  18).  See  Nazarite. 

(r.)  In  times  of  affliction  the  hair  was  altogether  cut 
off  (Isa.  iii,  17,24;  xv,  2;  xxii,  12;  Jer.  vii,  29;  xlviii, 
37 ; Amos  viii,  10;  Josephus,  War,  ii,  15,  1),  the  prac- 
tice of  the  Hebrews  being  in  this  respect  the  reverse  of 
that  of  the  Egyptians,  who  let  their  hair  grow  long  in 
time  of  mourning  (Herod,  ii,  36),  shaving  their  heads 
when  the  term  was  over  (Gen.  xli,  14) ; but  resembling 
that  of  the  Greeks,  as  frequently  noticed  by  classical 
writers  (e.  g.  Soph.  A j.  1174;  Enrip.  EJectr.  143,  241). 
Tearing  the  hair  (Ezra  ix,  3),  and  letting  it  go  dishev- 
elled, as  already  noticed,  were  similar  tokens  of  grief. 
Job  is  even  represented  as  having  shaved  his  head,  to 
make  himself  bald,  in  the  day  of  his  calamity  (i,  20); 
probably  more,  however,  as  a symbol  of  desolation  than 
as  an  ordinary  badge  of  mourning;  for  it  is  in  that  re- 
spect that  baldness  is  commonly  spoken  of  in  Scripture 
(Isa.  iii,  24;  xv,  2,  etc.).  The  call  in  Jer.  vii,  29  to  cut 
otf  the  hair — “ Cut  off  thine  hair,  O Jerusalem,  and  cast 
it  away ; and  take  up  a lamentation  on  high  places” — 
is  addressed  to  Jerusalem  under  the  symbol  of  a woman, 
and  indicates  nothing  as  to  the  usual  practice  of  men  in 
times  of  trouble  and  distress.  In  their  case,  we  may 
rather  suppose,  the  custom  would  be  to  let  the  hair  grow 
in  the  season  of  mourning,  and  to  neglect  the  person. 
But  the  practice  would  naturally  differ  with  the  occa- 
sion and  with  the  feelings  of  the  individual.  See 
MornxixG. 

The  usual  and  favorite  color  of  the  hair  was  black 
(Cant,  v,  11),  as  is  indicated  in  the  comparisons  to  a 
“flock  of  goats”  and  the  “tents  of  Kedar”  (Cant,  iv,  1 ; 
i,  5):  a similar  hue  is  probably  intended  by  the  purple 
of  Cant,  vii,  5,  the  term  being  broadly’  used  (as  the 
Greek  7rop<pvpeog  in  a similar  application  =pi\ag,  Ana- 
creon, 28).  A fictitious  hue  was  occasionally  obtained 
by  sprinkling  gold-dust  on  the  hair  (Josephus,  Ant.  viii, 
7,  3).  It  does  not  appear  that  dyes  were  ordinarily 
used;  the  “carmel”  of  Cant,  vii,  5 has  been  understood 
as  (A.  V.  “ crimson,”  margin)  without  good 

reason,  though  the  similarity  of  the  words  may  have 
suggested  the  subsequent  reference  to  purple.  Herod 
is  said  to  have  dyed  his  gray  hair  for  the  purpose  of 
concealing  his  age  (.4  nt.  xvi,  8, 1) ; but  the  practice  may 
have  been  borrowed  from  the  Greeks  or  Homans,  among 
whom  it  was  common  (Aristopli.  Eccles.  736;  Martial, 
Ep.  iii,  43 ; Propert.  ii,  18,  24, 26)  :•  from  Matt,  v,  36,  we 


may  infer  that  it  was  not  usual  among  the  Hebrews, 
The  approach  of  age  was  marked  by  a sprinkling  (p“T, 
IIos.  vii,  9;  comp,  a similar  use  of  sjmryere,  Propert.  iii, 
4,  24)  of  gray  hairs,  which  soon  overspread  the  whole 
head  (Gen.  xlii,  38;  xliv,  29;  1 Kings  ii,  6,  9;  l’rov. 
xvi,  31 ; xx,  29).  The  reference  to  the  almond  in  Keel, 
xii,  5,  has  been  explained  of  the  white  blossoms  of  that 
tree,  as  emblematic  of  old  age : it  may  be  observed,  how- 
ever, that  the  color  of  the  flower  is  pink  rather  than 
white,  and  that  the  verb  in  that  passage,  according  to 
high  authorities  (Gesen.  and  Hitzig),  does  not  bear  the 
sense  of  blossoming  at  all.  See  Ai.mond.  Pure  white 
hair  was  deemed  characteristic  of  the  divine  majesty 
(Dan.  vii,  9;  Kev.  i,  14).  See  Guay. 

The  chief  beauty  of  the  hair  consisted  in  curls,  wheth- 
er of  a natural  or  artificial  character.  The  Hebrew 
terms  are  highly  expressive:  to  omit  the  word  riEE  — 
rendered  “locks”  in  Cant,  iv,  1,3;  vi, 7 ; and  Isa.  xlvii, 
2;  but  more  probably  meaning  a veil— we  have  E"Sr>sn 
(Cant,  v,  1 1),  properly  pendulous  flexible  boughs  (ac- 
cording to  the  Sept.,  tXctTai,  the  shoots  of  the  palm- 
tree)  which  supplied  an  image  of  the  coma  pendula ; 

(Ezek.viii,3), a similar  image  borrowed  from  the 
curve  of  a blossom ; p:2  (Cant,  iv,  9),  a lock  falling 
over  the  shoulders  like  a chain  of  ear-pendant  (in  into 
c vine  colli  tui,  Vulgate  better,  perhaps,  than  the  A.V., 
“with  one  chain  of  thy  neck”);  E“Er;“  (Cant,  vii,  5, 
A.  V.  “ galleries”),  properly  the  channels  by  which  wa- 
ter was  brought  to  the  flocks,  which  supplied  an  image 
either  of  the  coma  Jluens,  or  of  the  regularity  in  which 
the  locks  were  arranged ; (Cant,  vii,  5),  again  an 
expression  for  coma  pendula,  borrowed  from  the  threads 
hanging  down  from  an  unfinished  woof ; and,  lastly, 
iTpp  j iTwEE  (Isa.  iii. 24,  A. V.  “well  set  hair”), prop- 
erly plaited  work,  i.  e.  gracefully  curved  locks.  With 
regard  to  the  mode  of  dressing  the  hair  we  have  no 
very  precise  information ; the  terms  used  are  of  a gen- 
eral character,  as  of  Jezebel  (2  Kings  ix,  30),  EE“ri,  i. 
e.  she  adorned  her  head ; of  Judith  (x,  3),  cdraKf,  i.  c. 
arranged  (the  A.  V.  has  “ braided,”  and  the  Yulg.  dis- 
criminant, here  used  in  a technical  sense  in  the  refer- 
ence to  the  discriminate  or  hair-pin);  of  Herod  (Joseph. 
Ant.  xiv,  9,4),  KtKoaprjpivog  rij  ovvQtffet  rijg  Ko/tt/g, 
and  of  those  who  adopted  feminine  fashions  (II Tar,  iv, 
9,  10),  Kopag  ouvGtTiZuytvoi.  The  terms  used  in  the 
N.  Test.  (irXtypatTiv,  1 Tim.  ii,  9;  ipTiXoKijg  -piydv,  1 
Pet.  iii, 3)  are  also  of  a general  character;  Schlcusncr 
(Lex.  s.  v.)  understands  them  of  curling  rather  than 
plaiting.  The  arrangement  of  Samson’s  hair  into  seven 
locks,  or  more  properly  braids  (r*2^Hp,  from  to 
interchange;  Sept,  aupai ; Judg.  xvi,  13,  19),  involves 
the  practice  of  plaiting,  which  was  also  familiar  to  the 
Egyptians  (Wilkinson,  ii, 335)  and  Greeks  (llomcr,  II. 
xiv,  176).  The  locks  were  probably  kept  in  their  place 
by  a fillet,  as  in  Egypt  (Wilkinson,  l.  c.). 


Ancient  Egyptian  Ladies  with  their  hair  bound  by  fillets. 


26 


IIAKEWILL 

(Ornaments  wore  worked  into  the  liair,  as  practised 
l,v  i lie  modern  Egyptians,  who  “add  to  each  braid  three 
hi.u-k  silk  cords  with  little  ornaments  of  gold”  (Lane,  i, 
71):  the  Sept,  understands  the  term  0sa< 

is  \ V.  “cauls")  as  applying  to  such  ornaments  (*/t- 
rrXdvm )*;  Schroder  {Vest.A/nl.  Ileh.  cap.  2)  approves  of 
this,  and  conjectures  that  they  were  sun-shaped,  l.  e. 
circidar.  as  distinct  from  the  “ round  tires  like  the  moon," 
i.  e.  the  orescent-shaped  ornaments  used  for  necklaces. 
The  Arabian  women  attach  small  bells  to  the  tresses  of 
t heir  liair  < Niebuhr,  Tear.  i,  133).  Other  terms,  some- 
times understood  as  applying  to  the  hair,  are  of  doubt- 
ful signification,  c.g.C'P"""  (Isa.  in, 22;  acus;  “crisp- 
ing-pins"),  more  probably  purses,  as  in  2 Kings  v,  23; 
E"“‘rp  (Isa.  iii,  20,  “ head-bands”),  bridal  girdles,  ac- 
cording to  Schroder  and  other  authorities;  (Isa. 

iii.  20,  Yulg.  dUrriminalia,  i.  e.  pins  used  for  keeping  the 
hair  parted;  comp.  Jerome  in  Itufn . iii,  cap.  nit.’),  more 
probably  turbans.  Combs  and  hair-pins  are  mentioned- 
m the  Talmud;  the  Egyptian  combs  were  made  of  wood 
and  double,  one  side  having  large,  and  the  other  small 
teeth  (Wilkinson,  ii,343);  from  the  ornamental  devices 
worked  on  them  we  may  infer  that  they  were  worn  in 
the  hair.  See  each  of  the  alwve  terms  in  its  place.  In 
the  Talmud  frequent  references  arc  made  to  women  who 
were  professional  hair-dressers  for  their  own  sex,  and 
the  name  applied  to  whom  was  r^TlA  (probably  from 
bli,  to  tu-ine  or  plait), “femina  gnara  alere  crines”  (Alai- 
mon.  in  Tr.  Shabbath , x,  G;  comp,  also  Wagenseil,  Sot  a, 
p.  137 ; Jahn,  .1  reliant,  pt.  i,  vol.  ii,  p.  114). 

The  Hebrews,  like  other  nations  of  antiquity,  anoint- 
ed the  liair  profusely  with  ointments,  which  were  gen- 
allv  compounded  of  various  aromatic  ingredients  (Ruth 
iii,  3;  2 Sam.  xiv,  2;  Psa.  xxiii,  5;  xlv,  7;  xeii,  10; 
Ecd.  ix,  x ; Isa.  iii,  24);  more  especially  on  occasion  of 
festivities  or  hospitality  (Matt,  vi,  17;  xxvi,  7 ; Luke 
vii,  lf> ; comp.  Joseph.  Ant.  xix,  4,  \,\-'imintvos  pvpoti ; 
7t)v  Kt'paXiji’,  me  otto  (Tvvovffi crj).  It  is,  perhaps,  in 
reference  to  rhe  glossy  appearance  so  imparted  to  it 
that  the  hair  is  described  as  purple  (Cant,  vii,  5).  See 

OlXTAIKNT. 

It  appears  to  have  been  the  custom  of  the  Jews  in 
our  Saviour’s  time  to  swear  by  the  hair  (Matt,  v,  3G), 
much  as  the  Egyptian  women  still  swear  by  the  side- 
lock.  and  the  men  by  their  beards  (Lane,  i,  52, 71,  notes). 
Sec  ( )ath. 

Hair  was  employed  by  the  Hebrews  as  an  image  of 
what  was  least  valuable  in  man’s  person  (1  Sam.  xiv, 
45;  2 Sam.  xiv,  11;  1 Kings  i,  52;  Matt,  x,  30;  Luke 
xii,  7 ; xxi,  IS ; Acts  xxvii,34 ) ; as  well  as  of  what  was 
innumerable  (Psa.  xl,  12;  lxix,  4),  or  particularly  fine 
(Judg.  xx,  HI >.  In  Isa.  vii, 20,  it  represents  the  various 
productions  of  the  field,  trees,  crops,  etc.  ? like  o poQ  kcko- 
ppnivov  i'Ay  of  Callim.  I)inn.  41,  or  the  /annus  romans 
of  St  at.  Theb.  v,  502.  White  hair,  or  the  hoary  head,  is 
the  symbol  of  tlic  respect  due  to  age  (Lev.  xix,  22; 
Prow  xvi,  31 ).  Hence  we  lind  in  Dan.  vii.  1),  God  takes 
upon  him  the  title  of  “Ancient  of  Days”  (comp.  llev.  i, 
) I ),  the  gruv  locks  there  represented  being  the  symbol 
of  authority  and  honor.  The  shaving  of  the  head,  on 
the  contrary,  signifies  affliction,  poverty,  and  disgrace. 
Thus  “cutting  oil'  the  hair”  is  a figure  used  to  denote 
the  entire  destruction  of  a people  by  the  righteous  ret- 
ributions of  Providence  ( Isa.  vii. 20 ).  “Cray  hairs  here 
and  there  on  Ephraim”  portended  the  decline  and  fall 
of  the  kingdom  oflsrael  (llos.  vii,  9).  “ Hair  like  wom- 
en’s” forms  part  of  the  description  of  the  Apocalyptic  lo- 
euSs  i Rev.  ix,  8),  and  is  added  to  complete  the  idea  of 
fierceness  of  (he  anti-Christian  troop  of  cavalry,  bristling 
with  shaggy  hair  (comp,  “rough  caterpillars,"  i.e.  hairy 
locusts,  Jer.  li,  27);  long  and  undressed  liair  in  later 
times  being  regarded  as  an  image  of  barbaric  rudeness 
(llcngstcnbcrg,  ad  loe.  Rev.).-  lvitto,  s.  v.;  Smith,  s. 
v. ; Eairhairn,  s.  v. 

H alee  will,  George,  an  English  theologian  and 


HALAH 

| philosopher,  was  bom  at  Exeter  in  1579.  He  studied 
at  Exeter  and  at  Alban  Ilall,  Oxford,  where  he  gradu- 
ated, and  entered  the  Church  in  1611.  He  became  suc- 
I cessivelv  chaplain  of  prince  Charles  (afterwards  Charles 
I 1)  and  archdeacon  of  Surrey.  His  opposition  to  the 
prince’s  plan  of  marriage  with  the  Infanta  of  Spain 
caused  him  to  lose  his  chaplaincy.  During  the  Civil 
War  he  kept  aloof  from  parties,  and  in  1G48  he  was  one 
of  the  first  in  accepting  the  rule  requiring  all  members 
of  the  University  of  Oxford  to  sign  a promise  of  obedi- 
ence to  Parliament.  He  died  in  1G49.  Besides  a large 
number  of  sermons  and  occasional  pamphlets,  he  wrote 
.4  n A poloyy,  or  Declaration  of  the  Power  and  Providence 
of  God  in  the  Government  of  the  World  (in  four  books, 
1627,  fol.;  augmented  edit.  1G35),  a work  written  with 
great  strength  and  clearness,  if  not  always  in  good  taste. 
See  Wood,  A thence  Oxonienses , vol.  ii;  Prince,  Worthies 
' of  Devon ; Gorton , General  Biorj.  Diet.;.  Bose,  New  Gen . 
Biorjr.  Diet. ; lloefer,  Xouv.  Bkujr.  Generate,  xxiii,  123 ; 
Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors,  s.  v. 

Hakim  Ben-Allah  ouBen-Hasitem,  sumamed 
Mokanxa  ( the  veiled)  and  Sagende  Nam  {moon-mo her), 
the  founder  of  an  Arabian  sect,  flourished  in  the  latt  r 
half  of  the  8th  century.  He  began  his  career  as  a com- 
mon soldier,  rose  to  a captaincy,  but  subsequently  be- 
came the  leader  of  a band  of  his  own.  Having  lost  one 
of  his  eyes  by  the  shot  of  an  arrow,  he  constantly  wore 
a veil  to  conceal  his  ugliness,  as  unbelievers  assert,  but, 
according  to  the  belief  of  his  disciples,  to  prevent  the 
dazzling  brightness  of  his  divinely  illuminated  counte- 
nance from  overpowering  the  beholder.  Hakim  is  said 
to  have  been  an  adept  in  legerdemain  and  natural  mag- 
ic, so  as  to  be  able  to  produce  grand  and  startling  effects 
of  light  and  color,  in  virtue  of  which  he  laid  claim  to 
miraculous  powers,  and  asserted  that  he  was  a god  m 
human  form,  having  been  incarnated  in  the  bodies  of 
Adam,  Noah,  and  other  celebrated  men,  and,  last  of  all, 
in  that  of  Abu  Moslem,  prince  of  Ivhorassan.  On  one 
occasion,  to  the  “delight  and  bewilderment  of  Ins  sol- 
diers,” he  is  said  for  a whole  week  .to  have  caused  to  is- 
sue from  a deep  well  a moon  or  moons  of  such  surpass- 
ing brilliancy  as  to  obscure  the  real  moon.  Many 
flocked  to  his  standard,  and  he  seized  several  strong 
places  near  Nekshil)  and  Kish.  The  sultan  Maliadi 
marched  against  him,  and  finally  captured  his  last 
I stronghold;  but  llakim,  “having  first,  poisoned  his  sol- 
diers with  the  wine  of  a banquet,"  had  destroyed  his 
' body  by  means  of  a burning  acid,  so  that  only  a few 
, hairs  remained,  in  order  that  his  disciples  might  believe 
that  he  had  “ascended  to  heaven  alive.”  Remnants  of 
the  sect  still  exist  on  the  shores  of  the  Oxus,  having  for 
outward  badge  a white  garb  in  memory  of  that  worn  by 
their  founder,  and  in  contrast  to  the  black  color  adopted 
by  the  caliphs  of  the  house  of  Abbas.  The  life  of  lla- 
kim has  been  the  subject  of  many  romances,  of  which 
“the  best  known  and  most  brilliant”  is  the  story  of 
“The  Veiled  Prophet  of  Khorassan”  in  Moore’s  Lulla 
Boohh.  — Chambers,  Ci/r/opadia , s.  v. ; Hoefer,  Xouv. 
Biop.  Gene  rale,  i,  82;  D' II  or  helot,  Biblioth.  Orientuie,  s. 
v.  Moeanna.  (J.W.  M.) 

Hak'katan,  or  rather  Katax  (Heb.  Katan',  ‘jEJ?, 
with  the  article  the  little  or  junior;  Sept.  ’Akku- 

rav,  Vulg.  Eecetan ),  a descendant  (or  native)  of  Azgad 
and  father  of  Jolianan,  which  last  returned  with  110 
male  retainers  from  Babylon  with  Ezra  (Ezra  viii,  12). 
B.C.  ante  459. 

Hakkore.  See  Ex-jiak-kore. 

Hak'koz  (I  Chron.  xxiv,  10).  See  Koz. 

Haku'pha  {Chahtpha',  X 5*1  pH,  crooked;  but,  ac- 
cording to  Fiirst,  incitement,  a Chaldaizing  form;  Sept. 
\icoi’<pd  and  \A\o0«),  one  of  the  Xethinim  whose  de- 
scendants returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Ezra 
ii,  51 ; Nell,  vii,  53).  B.C.  ante  536. 

Ha'lah  (11  ebrew  Chuluch signif.  unknown; 

I Sept.  ’E\«e  and  A\ae}  Vulg.  Ilula ; but  in  1 Chron.  v, 


HALACHA 


IIALDAXE 


26,  Sept.  Xa\d,  Yulg.  Lahela ),  a city  or  district  of  Me-  j 
dia,  upon  tlie  river  Gozan,  to  which,  among  ot]ier  places, 
the  captives  of  Israel  were  transplanted  by  the  Assyrian 
kings  (2  Kings  xvii,G;  xviii,ll;  1 Chron. v, 2(>).  XIany, 
after  Bocliart  ( Geog . Sacra,  iii,  14,  p.  220),  have  con- 
ceived this  Ilalah  or  Chalach  to  be  the  same  with  the 
Cal  Alt  or  Kelach  of  Gen.  x,  11,  the  Calacine  (KrtXn- 
Kivt))  wliich  Ptolemy  places  to  the  north  of  Assyria  (vi, 

1 1,  the.  Calachene  (Ka\a\t]vif)  of  Strabo  (xi,  530),  in  the 
plain  of  the  Tigris  around  Nineveh.  But  this  is  proba- 
bly a different  place,  the  modern  Kalah-Shergat.  Ma- 
jor Kennell,  identifying  the  Gozan  with  the  Kizzil-Ozan, 
indicates  as  lying  along  its  banks  a district  of  some  ex- 
tent, and  of  great  beauty  and  fertility,  called  Cfialchal, 
having  within  it  a remarkably  strong  position  of  the 
same  name,  situated  on  one  of  the  hills  adjoining  to  the 
mountains  which  separate  it  from  the  province  of  Ghi- 
Ian  (Geog.  of  Herod,  p.  390).  The  Talmud  understands 
C'holwan,  five  days’ journey  from  Bagdad  (Burst,  Lex.  s. 
v.).  Ptolemy,  however,  mentions  (v,  18)  another  prov- 
ince in  Mesopotamia  of  a similar  name,  namely,  C'halci- 
tls  {XaXKiTitf),  which  he  places  between  Authemusia 
(compare  Strabo,  xvi,  I,  § 27)  and  Gauzonitis  (Gozan); 
and  this  appears  to  be  the  true  Ilalah  of  the  Bible.  It 
lay  along  the  banks  of  the  Upper  Kliabur,  extending 
from  its  source  at  Has  el-Ain  to  its  junction  with  the 
Jerujer,  as  the  name  is  thought  to  remain  in  the  modern 
Ola,  a large  mound  on  this  river,  above  its  junction 
with  the  Jerujer  (Lavard,  Ain.  cmd  Bab.  p.  312,  note). 
Ilalah,  1 labor,  and  Gozan  were  situated  close  together 
on  the  left  bank  of  the  Euphrates  (Iiawlinson,  Ancient 
Monarchies,  i,  246). — Kitto,  s.  v. 

Halacha.  See  IIagoadaii;  XIidrasii. 

Ha'lak  (Heb.  Chaluk ',  p^H,  smooth  ; Sept.  ’AaXdic 
and  XeXyrt),  the  name  (or,  rather,  epithet)  of  a hill 
(p^np  both  with  the  art .=th<?  bare  mount)  near 
the  territory  of  Seir,  at  the  southern  extremity  of  Ca- 
naan, among  the  conquests  of  Joshua  (Josh,  xi,  17 ; xii, 
7);  so  called,  doubtless,  from  its  bald  appearance,  making 
it  a landmark  in  that  direction.  Hence  it  is  used  hv 
Joshua,  as  Beersheba  was  used  by  later  writers,  to  mark 
the  southern  limit  of  the  country' — •“  So  Joshua  took  all 
that  land  . . . from  the  Mount  JIalak,  that  goeth  up 
to  Seir,  even  unto  Baal-gad,  in  the  valley  of  Lebanon, 
under  Mount  Hermon.”  The  situation  of  the  mountain 
is  thus  pretty"  definitely  indicated.  It  adjoins  Edom, 
and  lay  on  the  southern  border  of  Palestine;  it  must, 
consequently,  have  been  in,  or  very  near,  the  great  val- 
ley of  the  Arabah.  The  expression,  “that  goeth  up  to 
Seir’  (*P“to  I"D"m),  is  worthy  of  note.  Seir  is  the 
mountainous  province  of  Edom  [see  Seir  J ; and  Mount 
Ilalak  would  seem  to  have  been  connected  with  it,  as 
if  running  up  towards  it,  or  joining  it  to  a lower  dis- 
trict. About  ten  miles  south  of  the  Dead  Sea  a line  of 
■naked  white  cliffs,  varying  in  height  from  50  to  150 
feet,  runs  completely  across  the  Arabah.  As  seen  from 
the  north,  the  cliffs  resemble  a ridge  of  hills  (and  in  this 
aspect  the  word  “H  might  perhaps  be  applied  to  them), 
shutting  in  the  deep  valley,  and  connecting  the  moun- 
tain chain  on  the  west  with  the  mountains  of  Seir  on 
the  east.  It  is  possibly  this  ridge  which  is  referred  to 
in  Numb,  xxiv,  3, 4,  and  Josh,  xv,  2,  3,  under  the  name 
“Ascent  of  Akrabbim,”  and  as  marking  the  south-east- 
ern border  of  Judah;  and  it  might  well  be  called  the 
bald  mountain,  which  ascends  to  Seir.  It  was  also  a nat- 
ural landmark  for  the  southern  boundary  of  Palestine, 
as  it  is  near  Ivedesh-barnca  on  the  one  side,  and  the 
northern  ridge  of  Edom  on  the  other.  To  this  ridge, 
bounding  the  land  in  the  valley  on  the  south,  is  appro- 
priately opposed  on  the  north,  “ Baal-gad,  in  the  ralley 
of  Lebanon ” (Keil  on  Joshua  xi,  17).  The  cliffs,  and 
the  scenery  of  the  surrounding  region,  are  minutely  de- 
scribed by  Robinson  (Bib.  Res.  ii,  113,  116,  120). — Kit- 
to, s.  v.  Still,  the  peculiar  term,  “ the  bald  mountain,” 
seems  to  require  some  more  distinctive  eminence,  per- 


haps in  this  general  range.  Schwarz  thinks  it  may  be 
identified  with  Jebel  Madura,  on  the  south  frontier  of 
Judah,  between  the  south  end  of  the  Dead  Sea  and 
wady  Gaian  ( Palestine , p.  29);  marked  on  Robinson’s 
map  a little  south  of  the  famous  pass  Nukb  es-Sufali. 

Haldane,  James  Alexander,  brother  of  the 
following,  was  born  at  Dundee  July  14,  1768.  Having 
imbibed  the  family  passion  for  the  sea,  he  was  appoint- 
ed captain  of  the  Melville  Castle  in  1793.  The  vessel, 
however,  did  not  sail  lor  four  months,  and  during  that 
interval  a great  change  took  place  in  captain  Ilaldaue’s 
character.  lie  became  serious  and  thoughtful  on  the 
subject  of  religion,  and,  having  determined  to  follow  the 
example  of  his  brother,  who  had  already  relinquished 
the  seafaring  life,  he  disposed  of  his  command  for  ,£9000, 
and  his  share  in  the  property  of  the  ship  and  stores  for 
£G000  more.  With  this  fortune  of  £ 1 5,000  he  retired 
with  his  wife  to  Scotland  in  1794,  and  gave  himself  up 
to  those  religious  inquiries  which  now  engrossed  his 
chief  concern.  Several  years  elapsed  before  his  views 
were  established;  but  at  length  he  attained  to  a knowl- 
edge of  the  truth  as  well  as  peace  in  believing.  Mr. 
James  Haldane,  having  plenty  of  time  at  command,  oc- 
cupied himself  with  many  plans  of  Christian  usefulness; 
among  which  the  opening  of  Sabbath-schools,  and  itin- 
erant preaching,  at  first  in  the  villages  around  Edin- 
burgh, and  afterwards  in  the  other  large  towns  of  Scot- 
land, were  the  chief.  His  principal  coadjutor  in  these 
labors  of  love  was  John  Campbell,  the  African  traveller. 
In  company  with  that  zealous  Christian,  Mr.  Haldane 
made  successive  tours  throughout  all  Scotland  as  far  as 
Orkney,  and  those  who  were  awakened  by  their  preach- 
ing were,  through  the  liberality  of  Mr.  Robert  Haldane, 
accommodated  with  suitable  places  of  worship.  XI r. 
James  eventually  accepted  the  office  of  stated  pastor  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Leith  Walk,  Edinburgh,  and  in  that 
ea|  acity  he  exercised,  without  any  emolument,  all  the 
public  and  private  duties  of  a minister  with  unbroken 
fidelity  and  zeal  for  a period  of  fifty  years.  Although 
he  vacillated  on  some  points  of  Church  government,  he 
and  his  brother  remained  steadfast  in  their  adherence  to 
the  general  principles  of  the  Scotch  Baptists.  He  died 
in  Edinburgh  Feb.  8,  1851.  Besides  a number  of  con- 
troversial tracts,  he  published  A I ~i<  re  of  the  social  Wor- 
ship of  the  frst  Christians  (Ebinlt.  1865, 12mo) : — Man's 
Responsibility  and  the  Extent  of  the  A tonemeut  (Edinb. 
1842,  12mo):  — Exposition  of  (lalatians  (Edinb.  184s, 
12mo):  — Inspiration  of  the  Scriptures  (Edinb.  1845, 
l2mo).  — Jamieson,  Religious  Biography,  p.242;  Rich, 
Biog.  Diet.  s.  v.  Haldane;  Lives  of  the  Brothers  Haldane 
(1852,  8vo);  Belcher,  Memoir  of  Robert  and  James  Al- 
exander Haldane,  etc.  (Amer.  Tract  Soc.) ; At  w England- 
er, April,  1861,  p.  269.  See  Independents,  III. 

Haldane,  Robert,  an  eminent  Christian  philan- 
thropist, was  born  in  London  (of  Scotch  parents)  I eh. 
28,  1764,  and  inherited  a large  property.  His  early 
manhood  'was  spent  in  the  navy;  he  was  afterwards  an 
enthusiastic  Democrat  in  politics,  and  welcomed  the 
French  Revolution.  After  this  excitement  subsided  he 
was  converted,  and  resolved  on  dedicating  his  life  to 
missionary  labors.  India  was  the  chosen  field,  and, 
having  secured  the  promised  co-operation  of  Messrs, 
limes.  Ewing,  and  Boguc.  of  Gosport,  to  whom  he  guar- 
anteed adequate  stipends,  he  applied  to  the  Indian  gov- 
ernment to  sanction  his  enterprise.  4 he  Last  India 
Company  directors,  after  much  deliberation,  resolved 
that  the  superstitions  of  Hindostan  should  not  he  dis- 
turbed. XI r.  Ilaldane  now  determined  to  employ  his 
resources  in  spreading  the  Gospel  at  home,  and,  in  con- 
junction with  Rowland  Hill  and  other  eminent  evan- 
gelists, he  was  instrumental  in  awakening  an  extensive 
revival  of  religion  throughout  Scotland.  The  General 
Assembly  (1800)  forbade  field-preaching,  and  discour- 
aged the  revival.  Xlr.  Haldane  therefore  seceded  from 
the  Established  Church,  and  at  his  own  expense  erected 
places  of  worship,  under  the  name  of  Tabernacles,  in  all 


28 


HALHUL 


IIALDE,  DU 

the  large  towns  of  Scotland,  and  educated  300  young 
men  under  Dr.  lJogue  at  Gosport,  Mr.  Ewing  at  Glas- 
gow, and  Mr.  Inncs  at  Dundee.  He  also  organized  a 
theological  school  at  Paris.  His  attention  was  subse- 
quently directed  to  the  evangelization  of  Africa.  To 
commence  this  undertaking,  he  procured  thirty  young 
children  from  Sierra  Leone  to  receive  a Christian  edu- 
cation at  his  expense,  and  gave  a bond  for  ,£7000  for 
their  board  and  education,  which,  however,  the  friends 
of  emancipation  in  London  undertook  to  defra}".  This 
is  only  one  specimen  of  his  munificence.  His  personal 
labors  in  awakening  a religious  spirit  in  the  south  of 
France  were  successful  beyond  his  own  most  sanguine 
expectations;  and  both  at  Geneva  and  Montauban  he 
sowed  the  seeds  of  truth,  which  are  bearing  good  fruit 
to  this  day  in  the  Protestant  churches  of  France.  Mr. 
Haldane  took  a prominent  part  in  the  management  of 
the  Continental  Society  and  the  Hible  Society  of  Edin- 
burgh; and  in  the  painful  controversy  relative  to  the 
circulation  of  the  Apocrypha  by  the  British  and  Foreign 
Bible  Society,  tvhich  led  to  the  establishment  of  the  lat- 
ter. lie  was  the  author  of  The  Evidence  and  Authority 
of  divine  Revelation  (3d  ed.  1839,  2 vols.  12ruo) : — An 
Exposition  of  th  ' Epistle  to  the  Romans  (Lond.  1839,  2 
vols.  1 2 mo) : — Verbal  Inspiration  (Gth  ed.  1853,  12mo); 
and  various  controversial  pamphlets,  lie  died  Dec.  12, 
1842.— Jamieson,  Religious  Biography,  p.  240 ; Rich,  Bi- 
tty r.  Dictionary ; Darling,  Lives  of  the  Brothers  Haldane 
(Lond.  1852, 8vo);  Belcher,  Memoir  of  Robert  ami  James 
Alexander  Haldane  (Amer.  Tract.  Soc.). 

Halde,  Du.  See  Du  IIalde. 

Hale,  John,  a Congregational  minister,  was  born 
June  3,  1030,  in  Charlestown,  Mass.  He  graduated  at 
Harvard  College  in  1657,  and  was  ordained  first  pastor 
<>f  the  newly-formed  Church  at  Beverley,  Sept.  20, 1667, 
where  he  remained  until  his  death.  May  15,  1700.  lie 
published  an  Election  Sermon  (1684),  and  A modest  In- 
quiry into  the  Xafure  of  Witchcraft,  ami  how  Persons 
gnilty  of  that  Crime  may  be  convicted,  ami  the  Means 
used  for  their  Discovery  discussed,  both  negatively  and 
affirmatively,  according  to  Scripture  and  Experience 
(iSino,  1097). — Sprague,  Annals,  i,  168. 

Hale,  Sir  Matthew,  was  born  at  Alderley, 
Gloucestershire,  Nov.  1,  1609,  admitted  at  Magdalen 
Hall,  Oxford,  in  1626,  and  at  Lincoln’s  Inn  in  1629.  In 
1653  (under  the  Commonwealth)  he  was  made  one  of 
the  judges  of  the  Common  Bench,  and  in  1671  he  was 
elected  to  be  chief  justice  of  the  King’s  Bench,  lie  died 
Dee.  25,  1676.  He  was  a learned  lawyer,  an  upright 
judge,  a pious  Christian.  The  only  spot  upon  his  mem- 
ory as  a criminal  judge  is  the  notorious  fact  of  his  hav- 
ing condemned  two  wretched  women  for  witchcraft,  at 
the  assizes  at  Bury  St.  Edmund’s,  in  the  year  1665. 
1 lale,  in  the  course  of  the  trial,  avowed  himself  a believer 
in  witchcraft,  and  the  jury  found  the  prisoners  gnilty, 
notwithstanding  many  impartial  by-standers  declared 
that  they  disbelieved  theeharge.  No  reprieve  was  grant- 
ed, and  the  prisoners  were  executed.  Hale  was  a volu- 
minous writer.  Of  his  legal  publications  we  make  no 
mention  here;  besides  them  he  wrote  .1  n Abstract  of  the 
Christian  Religion A Discourse  of  Religion  .■—Contem- 
plations, Moral  and  Divine:  The  Knowledge  of  Christ 
crucified  ( new  ed.  ( Jiang.  1 828,  1 2, no).  These  ami  other 
minor  pieces  are  gathered  in  his  llorfa,  Moral  and  Re- 
ligious. edited  hy  the  Rev.  T.  Thirl  wall,  M.A.  (London, 
1805,  2 vols.  8vo).  See  Burnet,  Life  of  Sir  Af.  Hale 
(London,  1682,  l2mo;  also  prefixed  to  his  1 Vorks,  above 
named);  Baxter,  Xotes  on  the  Life  and  Death  of  Sir  M. 
Hale  (Loud.  1 682, 1 2mo ; reprinted,  with  1 1 ale’s' Thoughts 
on  Religion,  Lond.  1805,  12mo);  Campbell,  Lives  of  the 
< hiej  Justices ; English  Cyclopaedia;  Allibone,  Diet,  of 
A uthors,  s.  v. 

Hales,  John,  of  Eton,  usually  called  the  “over- 
memorable,”  an  eminent  English'  scholar  and  divine, 
was  born  in  Bath,  1584,  ami  educated  at  Corpus  Christi 
College,  Oxford.  In  1606  he  was  elected  fellow  of  Mer- 


ton College,  and  was  employed  by  Sir  H.  Savile  in  the 
preparation  of  his  fine  edition  ol  Chrysostom,  published 
in  1613.  Jlis  attainments  in  Greek  gained  him  the  pro- 
fessorship of  that  language  at  Oxford  in  1612,  and  in 
1613  he  was  ordained  and  become  fellow  of  Eton.  In 
1618  lie  accompanied  Sir  D.  Carleton  to  the  Hague  as 
his  chaplain,  and  attended  him  to  the  Synod  of  Dort  (q. 
v.).  He  went  to  that  celebrated  body  a Calvinist,  and 
left  it  an  Arminian,  as  is  shown  by  a letter  of  Farindon 
(q.  v.),  prefixed  to  Hales’s  Golden  Remains,  in  which  he 
says1  “At  the  well-pressing  of  John  iii,  16  by  Episco- 
piiis  there,  I bid  John  Calvin  good-night,  as  he  has  often 
told  me ” (see  Jackson,  Life  of  Farindon,  p.  xlix).  In 
1636  lie  wrote  for  Chillingworth  a tract  on  Schism,  in 
which  he  rebuked  the  claims  of  high  Episcopacy.  Laud 
sought  to  gain  over  the  great  Greek  scholar,  and  offered 
him  any  preferment  he  pleased.  In  1639  he  was  made 
canon  of  Windsor,  but  was  deprived  in  1642.  Refusing 
to  subscribe  to  the  “ covenant,”  he  was  compelled  to 
wander  from  place  to  place,  and  at  last  he  had  to  sell 
his  library  for  bread,  lie  died  May  19, 1656.  No  man 
of  his  time  had  greater  reputation  for  scholarship  and 
piety.  Bishop  Pearson  speaks  of  him  as  a “man  of  as 
great  a sharpness,  quickness,  and  subtilty  of  wit  as  ever 
this  or  perhaps  any  nation  bred  ....  a man  of  vast 
and  illimited  knowledge,  of  a severe  and  profound  judg- 
ment.’’ He  wrote  unwillingly,  and  published  but  a few 
tracts  in  bis  lifetime;  but  after  his  death  a number  of 
his  sermons  and  miscellaneous  pieces  were  collected  un- 
der the  title  of  Golden  Remains  of  the  Ever-memorable 
John  Hales  (London,  1659,  8vo;  best  ed.  1673, 4to);  his 
Letters  concerning  the  Synod  of  Dort  are  published  in 
the  edition  of  1673.  An  edition  of  his  Whole  Works 
(with  the  language  modernized)  was  published  by  lord 
Hailes  in  1765  (3  vols.  12mo).  See  Des  Maizeaux,  Life 
of  Hales  (Lond.  1719,  8vo);  General  Biog.  Dictionary ; 
Jackson,  Life  of  Farindon  (prefixed  to  Farindon’s  Ser- 
mons, vol.  i) ; Wood,  A thence  Oxoniensis,  ii,  124 ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop.  v,  476-7 ; Allibone,  Diet . of  Authors,  s.  v. 

Haliburton.  See  Halyburtox. 

Half-communion,  the  withholding  the  cup  from 
the  laity  in  the  Lord’s  Supper.  “This  practice  of  the 
Church  of  Rome  was  first  authorized  by  Innocent  III, 
and  then  made  obligatory  by  the  Council  of  Constance ; 
and  one  motive  for  the  innovation  appears  to  have  been 
to  exalt  the  priesthood  by  giving  them  some  exclusive 
privilege  even  in  communion  at  the  Lord’s  table.  Tran- 
snbstantiation  and  half-communion,  or  communion  in 
one  kind  only,  are  ingeniously  linked  together.  Ro- 
manists believe  that  Christ,  whole  and  entire,  his  soul, 
body,  and  divinity,  is  contained  in  either  species,  and 
in  the  smallest  particle  of  each.  Hence  they  infer  that, 
whether  the  communicant  receive  the  bread  or  the  wine, 
he  enjoys  the  full  benefit  of  the  sacrament.  Therefore, 
to  support  the  monstrous  dogma,  the  sacrament  is  di- 
vided in  two : transnbstantiation  justifies  communion  in 
one  kind,  and  communion  in  one  kind  proves  the  truth 
of  transubstantiation.  In  thus  denying  the  cup  to  the 
laity,  the  institution  of  Christ  is  mutilated,  the  express 
law  of  the  Gospel  perverted,  and  the  practice  of  the 
apostles  abandoned.  The  withholding  the  cup  was  one 
of  the  grievances  which  induced  the  Hussites  to  resist 
the  usurpations  of  the  Church  of  Rome”  (Farrar,  Eccles. 
L)ict.  s.  v.).  See  Lord’s  Suiter. 

Half-way  Covenant,  a scheme  adopted  by  the 
Congregational  churches  of  New  England  in  order  to 
extend  the  privileges  of  church  membership  and  infant 
baptism  beyond  the  pale  of  actual  communicants  at  the 
lord’s  table.  Stoddard,  of  Northampton,  vindicated  it, 
and  Jonathan  Edwards  opposed  it.  This  struggle  caused 
Edwards’s  removal  from  Northampton.  It  is  now  aban- 
doned hy  the  orthodox  Congregationalists Hurst,  Ra- 

tionalism, p.  538;  Upham,  Ratio  Disciplines,  xxi.  See 
Congregation’  alists  ; Edwards,  Jonathan. 

Hal'hul  (Heb.  ChalchuV,  ^r6n,  etymol.  doubtful, 
but.  according  to  Fitrst,  full  of  hollows;  Sept.  ’A\ov\  v. 


IIALI 


20 


IIALL 


r.  AtXovd ),  a town  in  the  highlands  of  Judah,  mentioned 
in  the  fourth  group  of  six  north  of  Hebron  (Keil,./ui7f.p. 
387),  among  them  Bcth-zur  and  Gedor  (Josh,  xv,  58). 
Jerome  ( Onomust . s.  v.  Elul)  says  it  existed  in  his  time 
near  Hebron  as  a small  village  (“vilula”)  by  the  name 
of  Alula.  Ur.  Robinson  found  it  in  the  modern  JIulhid, 
a short  distance  north  of  Hebron,  consisting  of  a ruined 
mosque  (called  Neby  Yunas  or  “Prophet  Jonah”)  upon 
a long  hill,  surrounded  by  the  remains  of  ancient  Avails 
and  foundations  {Researches,  i,  319).  During  his  last 
visit  to  Palestine  he  visited  it  again,  and  describes  it  as 
situated  high  on  the  eastern  broAv  of  the  ridge,  the  head 
tOAvn  of  the  district,  inhabited  by  an  ineivil  people ; 
the  environs  are  thrifty  and  avcII  cultivated.  The  old 
mosque  is  a poor  structure,  but  has  a minaret  (iicav  ed. 
of  Researches,  iii,  281).  Schwarz  also  identifies  it  Avith 
this  village  on  a mount,  5 Eng.  miles  north-east  of  He- 
bron” {Palestine,  p.  107).  So  likewise  De  Saulcy  {Dead 
Sea,  i,  451).  The  hill  is  quite  a conspicuous  one,  half 
a mile  to  the  left  of  the  road  from  Jerusalem  to  I lebron, 
the  village  somewhat  at  its  eastern  foot , Avhile  opposite 
it,  on  the  other  side  of  the  road,  is  Beit-sur,  the  modem 
representative  of  Beth-zur,  and  a little  further  to  the 
north  is  Jedur,  the  ancient  Gedor.  In  a JeAvish  tradi- 
tion quoted  by  Hottinger  {Cippi  Ifebraici.  p.  38),  and  re- 
ported by  an  old  Hebrew  traAreller  (Jo.  Choi,  1334;  see 
Carmodv,  I tin.  Ilebrev',  p.  242),  it  is  said  to  be  the  burial- 
place  of  Gad,  David’s  seer  (2  Sam.  xxh',  11).  Hence  it 
Avas  for  a time  a place  of  JeAvish  pilgrimage  (Wilson, 
Lands  of  Bible,  i,  384).  See  also  the  citations  of  Zunz 
m Asher’s  Benj.  ofTudtlu  (ii,  437,  note).  Sec  Ciiellus. 

Ha'li  (Hcb.  Chalif.  “'bn,  necklace ; Sept.  ’A\i  v.  r. 
*A\t0  and  ’OoXei).  a town  on  the  border  of  the  tribe  of 
Asher,  mentioned  betAveen  Helkath  and  Betcn  (Josh, 
xix,  25).  Schwarz  thinks  it  may  be  the  Chalon  (Cy- 
amon)  of  Judith  \rii,  3,  opposite  Esdraelon,  and  there- 
fore near  the  range  of  Carmel  {Palest,  p.  191);  but  the 
reading  of  that  passage  is  doubtful  (see  Arnald,  Com- 
ment. ail  loc.),  and  such  an  identification  Avould  place 
Hali  far  remote  from  the  associated  localities,  Avhieh 
seem  to  indicate  a position  on  the  eastern  boundary,  at 
aime  distance  from  its  northern  extremity.  Accord- 
ingly Van  de  Velde  suggests  {Memoir,  p.  318)  that 
“ perhaps  the  site  of  this  city  may  be  recognised  in  that 
of  Alia,  a place  Avhere  the  rock-hcAvn  foundations  of  a 
large  city  are  seen,  on  the  south-east  side  of  the  village 
of  M’alia,  rather  more  than  five  hours  north-east  of 
Akka;  the  tell  of  M’alia  would  seem  to  have  formed  the 
acropolis  of  the  ancient  city.” 

Halicarnas'sus  {'AXimpvaoaog),  in  Caria  of  Asia 
Minor,  a city  of  great  renoAvn,  as  being  the  birthplace 
of  Herodotus  and  of  the  later  historian  Dionysius,  and 
as  embellished  by  the  mausoleum  erected  by  Artemisia, 
but  of  no  Biblical  interest  except  as  the  residence  of  a 
JeAvish  population  in  the  periods  betAveen  the  Old  and 
XeAv  Testament  histories.  In  1 Macc.  xat,  23,  this  city 
is  specified  as  containing  such  a population.  The  de- 
cree in  Josephus  {Ant.  xiA',  10,  23),  Avhere  the  Romans 
direct  that  the  JeAvs  of  Halicarnassus  shall  he  allowed 
their  national  usage  of  proseuchre,  or  prayer-cliapels  by 
the  sea-side  (rag  xpoo-fi^dc  iroittaQai  irpog  ry  QaXda- 
ny  Kara  to  irarpiov  idog),  is  interesting  Avhen  com- 
pared Avith  Acts  xvi,  13.  This  city  Avas  celebrated  for 
its  harbor  and  for  the  strength  of  its  fortifications;  hut. 
having  made  a A-igorous  and  protracted  defense  against 
Alexander  the  Great,  he  A\-as  so  much  enraged  that, 
upon  gaining  at  length  possession  of  it,  he  destroyed  it 
by  fire — a calamity  from  Avhieh  it  never  recovered.  A 
plan  of  the  site  is  given  in  Ross,  Reisen  auf  den  Griech. 
Inseln,  i,  30  (copied  in  Smith’s  Diet,  of  Class.  Geog.  s.y.). 
The  sculptures  of  the  mausoleum  are  the  subject  of  a 
paper  by  Mr.  Newton  in  the  Classical  Museum,  and 
.many  of  them  are  iioav  in  the  British  Museum  (see  also 
his  full  work,  Discoveries  at  Halicarnassus,  etc.,  Lond. 
18G2-3).  The  modem  name  of  the  place  is  Budrum. — 
Smith,  s.  v. 


Hall  occurs  in  the  A.V.  of  the  N.  T.  three  times; 
tAvice  (Matt,  xxvii,  27;  Mark  xv,  1G)  in  reference  to 
the  Trpairwpiov,  pnetoriim,  or  residence  of  the  Roman 
governor  at  Jerusalem,  Avhieh  Avas  either  the  palace  built 
by  the  elder  Herod,  or  the  tower  of  Antonia;  his  usual 
abode  Avas  at  Ciesarea  (Acts  xxiii,  23).  Mark  adds  to 
the  word  auXi),  as  he  is  AA-ont.  in  other  eases,  an  explana- 
tory phrase,  o tort  irpatrti/piov  (Yulg.  atrium  pratorii). 
In  Luke  xxii,  55,  aiiXi)  means  the  open  court  or  quad- 
rangle belonging  to  the  high-priest’s  house,  such  as  Avas 
common  to  Oriental  dwellings.  It  has  the  same  mean- 
ing in  Matt,  xxvi,  G9,  and  Mark  xiv,  GG,  and  in  both 
passages  is  incorrectly  rendered  “ palace”  in  the  A.  V., 
as  the  adverbs  and  Kano  plainly  distinguish  the 
avXi)  from  the  ohcog  to  Avhieh  it  was  attached  (Luke 
xxii,  54).  So  in  Luke  xi,  21.  In  John  x,  1, 16,  it  means 
a “sheep-fold,”  and  in  Rev.  xi,  2,  the  outer  “court”  of 
the  Temple.  The  ahXi)  Avas  entered  from  the  street  by 
a 7r poavXiov  or  vestibule  (Mark  xiv,  G8),  through  a m>- 
Xwv  or  portal  (Matt,  xxvi,  71),  in  Avhieh  Avas  a Svpa  or 
wicket  (John  xviii,  1 G ; Acts  xii,  13).— Kitto,  s.  a\  A vX >/ 
is  the  equivalent  for  an  inclosed  or  fortified  space 
(Gesenius,  Thesanr.  p.  512),  in  many  places  in  the  O.  4’. 
Avhere  the  Vulg.  and  A.  Vers,  have  respectively  villa  or 
viculus , “A'illagc,”  or  atrium,  “court,”  chiefly  of  the  tab- 
ernacle or  Temple.  See  CoritT.  The  hall  or  court  of 
a house  or  palace  Avould  probably  be  an  inclosed  but  un- 
covered space,  implucium , on  a loAver  level  than  the 
apartments  of  the  lowest  floor  Avhieh  looked  into  it. — 
Smith,  s.  v.  See  Hot'su. 

Hall,  Charles,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minister,  Avas 
born  at  Williamsport,  Pa.,  June  23,  1799,  and  graduated 
at  Hamilton  College  in  1824  with  great  distinction. 
He  passed  his  theological  studies  at  Princeton,  Avas  li- 
censed in  1827,  and  appointed  soon  after  assistant  sec- 
retary to  the  Home  Missionary  Society.  In  1852  he 
Avent  to  Europe  for  his  health,  visited  most  of  that  con- 
tinent, and  returned  after  a short  absence  to  his  accus- 
tomed duties.  lie  died  Oct.  31,  1853.  He  edited  for 
several  years  The  Home  Missionary ; and  published  A 
Tract  on  Plans  and  Motives  for  the  Extension  of  Sab- 
bath Schools  (1828) : — The  Daily  Perse  Expositor  (1832): 
— .4  Plan  fur  systematic  Benevolence ; and  A Sermon  on 
the  Woiid's  Conversion  (1841). — Sprague,  .1  minis,  iv,  730. 

Hall,  Gordon,  a Congregational  minister  and 
missionary  to  India.  lie  Avas  bom  in  Granville  (iaoav 
Tolland),  Mass.,  April  8,  1781,  and  graduated  from  Wil- 
liams College  in  1808  with  the  first  honors  of  his  class. 
At  college  he  had  formed  the  acquaintance  of  Samuel 
J.  Mills  and  James  Richards,  afterwards  missionaries. 
He  commenced  the  study  of  theology  under  Ebeuezcr 
Porter,  afterwards  president  of  Andover  Theological 
Seminary,  Avas  licensed  to  preach  in  1809,  and  supplied 
for  a time  a church  at  Woodbury.  But  from  the  time 
of  his  acquaintance  Avith  Mills  it  seems  he  had  purposed 
to  become  a missionary.  In  1810  he  Avent  to  Andover, 
was  ordained  at  Salem  Feb.  G,  1812,  and  sailed  on  the 
18th  from  Philadelphia  Avith  Xott  and  Rice,  arriving  in 
Calcutta  on  the  17th  of  June.  The  East  India  Com- 
pany refused  them  the  privilege  of  laboring  or  remain- 
ing in  its  territory,  and  Messrs.  Hall  and  Xott  embarked 
for  Bombay,  Avhere  they  arrived  Feb.  1 1, 1813.  Orders 
from  the  gOA'ernor  general  folloAved,  commanding  them 
to  be  sent  to  England ; but  by  the  courage  and  Avisdom 
of  Mr.  Hall’s  memorials,  the  governor  Avas  influenced  to 
repeal  his  order,  and  Mr.  Hall  remained.  He  labored 
zealously  and  with  great  success  until  March  20,  1826, 
Avhen  he  Avas  suddenly  cut  off  by  cholera.  Mr.  Hall 
possessed  fine  abilities,  ardent  piety,  great  courage  and 
self-sacrifice.  His  indomitable  spirit,  and  the  ability 
of  his  appeals  to  the  governor  general,  did  much  to  open 
the  Avay  for  the  success  of  Christianity  in  India. — Amer- 
ican Missionary  Memorial,  p.  41.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Hall,  Joseph,  D.D.,  bishop  of  Xonvich,  was  horn 
at  Ashby-de-la-Zouch  July  1,  1574,  and  educated  at 
Emanuel  College,  Cambridge.  While  rector  of  Halstcd, 


HALL 


30  HALL 


In  Suffolk, he  composed  liis “Contemplations,'  which  pro-  I 
cured  him  the  patronage  of  prince  Henry  and  the  rec-  | 
torv  of  Waltham.  In  I01G  he  went  to  Paris  as  chap- 
lain to  the  English  amliassador.  On  his  return  he  was 
appointed  by  king  James  to  the  deanery  of  Worcester 
(1017),  and  in  the  following  year  he  accompanied  his  j 
royal  master  into  Scotland,  when  that  monarch  made  a J 
progress  into  the  northern  part  of  his  kingdom  to  prose- 
cute his  imprudent  scheme  of  erecting  Episcopacy  on 
the  ruins  of  Presbyterianism.  None  of  the  unpopular- 
ity, however,  of  that  measure  fell  upon  Hall, whose  char- 
acter and  principles  secured  him  the  esteem  and  respect 
of  the  most  eminent  Scotchmen  of  the  day.  He  was 
commanded  to  go  over  into  Holland  to  attend  the  Synod 
of  1 >:*rt  in  1 G I x ; but  the  protracted  meetings  of  that 
convocation  made  sad  inroads  on  his  health,  and  after 
two  months  he  returned  with  an  impaired  constitution 
to  England.  In  1G27  he  was  raised  to  the  see  of  Exe- 
ter, and  afterwards,  without  any  solicitation,  to  that  of 
Norwich  in  1G41.  Amid  all  the  ecclesiastical  tyranny 
of  Laud,  bishop  Hall  preserved  his  moderation.  The 
bishop,  however,  had  his  season  of  trial.  When  the 
popular  outcry  “ No  bishops”  was  raised,  and  an  armed 
moh  marched  against  the  House  of  Lords,  Hall,  with 
eleven  of  the  lords  spiritual,  joined  in  protesting  against 
the  measures  which  were  passed  in  their  absence;  and 
this  document  having  been  made  a ground  of  impeach- 
ment, he,  with  his  protesting  brethren,  were  consigned 
to  the  Tower.  lie  was  released  in  June  following  on 
giving  hail  fur  4'5000.  lie  continued  for  a year  to  ex- 
ercise his  episcopal  functions  in  Norwich;  hut  the  pop- 
ular tide  again  set  in,  his  house  was  attacked,  his  prop- 
erty sequestrated,  himself  insulted,  and  in  meek  resigna- 
tion lie  retired  into  a small  jdace  called  Higliani,  in 
Norfolk,  where  he  spent  the  remainTr  of  his  days  in 
acts  of  piety  and  charity,  and  at  length  died  Sept.  8, 

1 G.'if),  in  the  eighty-second  year  of  his  age.  Bishop 
Hall  was  a “man  of  very  devotional  habits,  to  fortify 
which  lie  made  a most  rigid  distribution  of  his  time, 
having  set  hours  fur  prayer,  for  reading  divinity,  for 
general  literature  .and  composition;  and  so  intense  was 
his  ardor  hi  the  pursuit  of  intellectual  and  spiritual  im- 
provement, that  for  a time  he  observed  the  strictest  ab- 
stemiousness, taking  for  a while  only  one  meal  a day.”  I 
I'or  his  depth  of  thought  and  elegance  of  language  he  | 
has  been  called  “ the  < Christian  Seneca.”  II is  writings 
consist,  besides  t lie  “Contemplations,”  of  sermons,  po-  [ 
leinieal  and  practical  theology,  and  correspondence;  the 
best  edition  is  1 1 'orlcs,  with  some  account  of  his  life  and 
writings  (edited  by  Veter  1 1 all, Oxford,  1837, 12  vols. 8 vo). 
Many  editions  of  the  Contemplations  have  appeared. 
See  Hughes,  fife  of  Bishop  Hall;  1 look,  Ecvles.  Biog- 
raphtp  v,  514 ; Rich,  Cyclop,  of  Biography,  s.  v. ; Jamie- 
son, Religious  Biography,.  p.  215;'  Wordsworth.  Kecks. 
Biography , iv,  255. 

Hall,  Peter,  an  English  divine  and  theological 
writer,  was  horn  in  1 803.  He  studied  first  at  Winches- 
ter College,  and  entered  Hrazcnose  College,  Oxford,  in 
1*20.  1 le  was  ordained  in  1*2*,  and  became  successive- 
ly curate  of  St.  Edmund's,  Salisbury ; rector  of  Millston, 
Wilts,  in  1X31 ; minister  of  Tavistock  chapel,  Drury 
Lane,  London,  in  I83G;  and  of  Long  Acre  chapel  in  lHli. 
In  1X1.J  ln>  removed  to  Hath,  and  became  minister  of  St. 
Thomas's  chapel,  Walcot.  lie  died  in  18 lit.  Hull  wrote 
Reliquiie  lituryinr : Documents  connected  with  the  Litnryy 
of  the  Church  of  f'nylund  (Hath,  1 x 17,  5 vols.  l.Hmo):— 
Fragmmta  liturgica : Documents  Must  rat  ire  of  the  Lit- 
vryyofthe  Church  of  h'nyland  (\inlh.  IX  1X.7  vo’ls.  ISmo): 
and  a number  of  Sermons.  51  r.  Hall  published  a new 
English  edition  of  that  valuable  work,  The  Harmony  of 
the  Protestant  Confessions  ( ]8H,  Kvo).  the  two  previous 
English  editions  of  whirlr  (Camh.  |5xt>,  !2mo;  London, 

4 to)  had  become  very  scarce.  He  also  edited  the 
best  edition  of  the  works  of  his  ancestor,  bishop  Hall 
(Oxford,  1 X37,  12  vols.);  and  wrote  Conyreyulionul  Re- 
form, four  Sermons  with  notes  ( London,’  1 835,  linin').— 
Darling,  Cyclopedia  Bibliug.  i,  1373 ; Alii  bone,  Diction-  . 


ary  of  A uihors , i,  TGI ; Gentlemans  Magazine,  Novem- 
ber, 1849. 

Hall,  Richard,  an  English  Romanist  writer,  was 
born  about  1540.  He  studied  at  tirst  at  Christ  College, 
Cambridge,  but  was  obliged  to  leave  it  in  1572  on  ac- 
count of  being  a Homan  Catholic-  He  then  went  to 
Douav,  and  afterwards  to  Italy.  Having  returned  to 
Douay,  he  became  professor  of  theology  in  the  English 
college  of  that  city.  lie  became  successively  canon  of 
St.  (levy  of  Cambray,  thou  of  the  cathedral  of  St.Omer, 
and  finally  official  of  the  diocese.  lie  died  in  1G04. 
lie  published  several  works  of  controversy,  such  as  De 
primuriis  Causts  Tumitlfuum  Belgicorum  ( Douav,  1581): 
— De  quinque  partita  Conscientia  (Douay,  1598,  4to). 
But  be  is  especially  known  for  bis  Life  o f Bishop  Fish- 
er, the  original  MSS.  of  which  was  kept  by  the  English 
Benedictines  in  their  convent  of  Deeuward,  in  Lorraine. 
A copy  of  it  fell  into  the  hands  of  Thomas  Bailey,  son 
of  Bailey  or  Daily,  bishop  of  Bangor,  who  sold  it  to  a 
publisher : the  work  appeared  under  the  name  of  Bailey 
(London,  1655, 8vo;  Lond.  1739, 12mo).  See  Chalmers, 
General  Biog.  Diet . ; I Ioefer,  Four.  Bing.  G enerale,  xxiii, 
149. 

Hall,  Robert,  one  of  the  most  eloquent  of  modem 
preachers,  was  born  at  Arnsbv,  Leicestershire,  May  2, 
17G4.  Ills  father,  who  was  also  a Baptist  minister  of 
good  repute,  early  remarked  his  talent,  and  gave  him 
every  opportunity  for  its  development.  It  is  said  that 
“Edwards  On  (he  117//  and  Butler's  Analogy  were  the 
chosen  companions  of  his  childhood,  being  perused  and 
reperused  with  intense  interest  before  lie  was  nine  years 
old.  At  eleven  liis  master,  Mr.  Simmons,  declared  him- 
self unable  any  longer  to  keep  pace  with  his  pupil !” 
In  1778  he  was  placed  under  the  instruction  of  the 
learned  and  pious  John  Hyland,  of  Northampton.  At 
fifteen  he  became  a student  in  the  Baptist  College  at 
Bristol,  and  at  eighteen  he  entered  King’s  College,  Ab- 
erdeen,, where  he  took  the  degree  of  51. A.  Here  he 
“enjoyed  the  instruction-  of  Drs.  Gerard,  Ogilvie,  Beat- 
tie,  and  Campbell,  and  also  formed  that  intimate  friend- 
ship with  Sir  James  Mackintosh  which  continued 
through  life.  Mr.  Hall  was  the  first  scholar  in  his  class 
through  his  collegiate  course.”  In  1785  he  was  chosen 
as  colleague  with  Dr.  Caleb  Evans  in  the  ministry  at 
Broadmead  Chapel,  Bristol,  and  adjunct  professor  in  the 
Baptist  Academy  there.  Here  he  attained  great  popu- 
larity. His  father  died  in  1791 ; and  the  same  year  a 
difference  with  I)r.  Evans  led  to  his  removing  from 
Bristol,  and  accepting  an  invitation  to  become  pastor  of 
the  Baptist  congregation  at  Cambridge  on  the  departure 
of  the  Hev.  Robert  Kobinson,  who  had  adopted  Unita- 
rian views,  to  be  successor  to  Dr.  Priestley  at  Birming- 
ham. Hall  had  already  acquired  considerable  celebrity 
j as  a preacher,  but.  it  was  not  till  now  that  he  appeared 
as  an  author;  and  the  impulse  that  sent  him  to  the 
press  was  rather  political  than  theological.  liis  first 
publication  (unless  we  are  to  reckon  some  anonymous 
contributions  to  a Bristol  newspaper  in  178G-87)  was  a 
pamphlet  entitled  Christianity  consistent  with  a Lore  of 
Freedom,  being  an  A nsirer  to  a Sermon  by  the  Rev.  John 
Clayton  (8vo,  1791).  Like  most  of  the  ardent  and  gen- 
erous minds  of  that  day,  he  was  strongly  excited  and 
carried  away  by  the  hopes  and  promises  of  the  French 
i Revolution.  In  1793  he  published  another  liberal 
pamphlet,  entitled  An  Apology  for  the  Freedom  of  the 
Press,  and  for  general  Liberty,  which  brought  him  much 
reputation.  The  impression  that  had  been  made  upon 
him,  however,  by  the  irreligious  character  of  the  French 
revolutionary  movement  was  indicated  in  his  next  pub- 
lication, Modern  Infidelity  considered  with  respect  to  its 
Influence  oh  Society,  a Sermon  (8vo,  1800).  It  was  the 
publication  of  this  able  and  eloquent  sermon  which  first 
brought  1 1 all  into  general  notice.  From  this  time  what-, 
ever  he  produced  attracted  immediate  attention.  “In 
1802  appeared  his  Reflections  on  War.  The  threatened 
invasion  of  Bonaparte  in  1803  brought  him  again  before 


HALL 


31 


IIALLEL 


the  public  in  the  discourse  entitled  Sentiments  suitable  to 
the  present  Crisis,  which  raised  Mr.  Halls  reputation  for 
large  views  and  powerful  eloquence  to  the  highest  pitch. 
In  November,  1804,  owing  chiefly  to  a disease  of  the 
spine,  attended  by  want  of  sufficient  exercise  and  rest, 
the  exquisitely  toned  mind  of  Mr.  Hall  lost  its  balance, 
and  he  who  had  so  long  been  the  theme  of  universal 
admiration  became  the  subject  of  as  extensive  a sympa- 
thy. He  was  placed  under  the  care  of  Dr.  Arnold,  of 
Leicester,  where,  by  the  divine  blessing,  his  health  was 
restored  in  about  two  months.  Hut  similar  causes  pro- 
duced a relapse  about  twelve  mouths  afterwards,  from 
which  he  was  soon  restored,  though  it  was  deemed  es- 
sential to  the  permanent  establishment  of  his  health 
that  he  should  resign  his  pastoral  charge  and  remove 
from  Cambridge.  Two  shocks  of  so  humiliating  a ca- 
lamity within  the  compass  of  a year  deeply  impressed 
Mr.  Hall’s  mind.  I lis  own  decided  persuasion  was  that 
he  never  before  experienced  a thorough  transformation 
of  character;  and  there  can  be  no  question  that  from 
this  period  his  spirit  was  habitually  more  humble,  de- 
pendent, and  truly  devotional.  It  became  his  custom 
to  renew  every  birthday,  by  a solemn  act,  the  dedica- 
tion of  himself  to  God,  on  evangelical  principles,  and  in 
the  most  earnest  sincerity  of  heart.  In  1807  he  became 
pastor  of  the  Baptist  church  in  Leicester,  where  he  soon 
after  married,  and  where  he  labored  most  successfully 
for  nearly  twenty  years.  At  no  period  was  he  more 
happy,  active,  and  useful.  The  church,  when  he  left  it, 
was  larger  than  the  whole  congregation  when  he  took 
the  charge  of  it.  But  his  influence  was  not  confined  to 
the  limits  of  his  parish.  He  took  an  active  part  in  all 
the  noble  charities  of  the  age,  and  by  his  sermons, 
speeches,  and  writings  exerted  a wide  influence  on  soci- 
ety, not  only  in  England,  but  on  the  continent  of  Eu- 
rope, in  America,  and  in  India.  His  review  of  Zeal 
without  Innovation , his  tracts  on  the  Terms  of  Commu- 
nion, and  his  sermons  on  the  Advantages  of  Knowledge 
to  the  hirer  Classes,  on  the  Discouragements  and  Sup- 
ports of  the  Christian  Ministry,  on  the  Character  of  a 
Christian  Missionary,  on  the  Death  of  the  Princess  Char- 
lotte- and  of  Per.  Dr.  Ryland,  with  several  others,  were 
given  to  the  public  while  residing  here.  Here  also,  in 
1823,  he  delivered  his  admirable  course  of  lectures  on  the 
Socinian  Controversy,  partially  preserved  in  his  IPorfo. 
At  last,  in  1826,  he  removed  to  the  pastoral  care  of  his 
old  congregation  at  Broadmead,  Bristol,  and  here  he  re- 
mained till  his  death,  which  took  place  at  Bristol  on  the 
21st  of  Feb.,  1831.  Besides  occasional  contributions  to 
various  dissenting  periodical  publications,  Hall  published 
various  tracts  am]  sermons  in  the  last  twenty  years  of 
his  life,  which,  along  with  those  already  mentioned,  have 
since  his  death  been  collected  under  the  title  of  The 
Works  of  Robert  Hall,  M.A .,  with  a brief  Memoir  of  his 
Life  by  Dr.  Gregory,  and  Observations  on  his  Character 
as  a Pi’eacher  by  John  Foster,  published  under  the  su- 
perintendence of  Olinthus  Gregory,  LL.D.,  professor  of 
mathematics  in  the  Koval  Military  Academy  (London, 
1831-32,  6 vols.  8vo;  11th  ed.  1853).  It  was  intended 
that  the  Life  should  have  been  written  by  Sir  James 
Mackintosh,  but  he  died  (in  May,  1832)  before  begin- 
ning it.  I)r.  Gregory’s  Memoir,  from  which  we  have 
abstracted  the  materials  of  this  article,  was  afterwards 
published  in  a separate  form.  See  Gkegoky,  Olinthts. 
The  first  volume  of  Hall's  ll'orta?  contains  sermons, 
charges,  and  circular  letters  (or  addresses  in  the  name 
of  the  governing  body  of  the  Baptist  Church) ; the  sec- 
ond, a tract  entitled  On  Terms  of  Communion  (1815,  in  2 
parts),  and  another  entitled  The  essential  Difference  be- 
tween Christian  Baptism  and  the  Baptism  of  John  (a  de- 
fence of  what  is  called  the  practice  of  free  communion, 
which  produced  a powerful  effect  in  liberalizing  the 
practice  of  the  Baptist  community)  (1816  and  1818,  in 
2 parts);  the  third,  political  and  miscellaneous  tracts, 
extending  from  1791  to  1826,  and  also  the  Bristol  news- 
paper contributions  of  1786-87 ; the  fourth,  reviews  and 
miscellaneous  pieces ; the  fifth,  notes  of  sermons  and  let- 


ters. The  sixth,  besides  Dr.  Gregory’s  memoir,  contains 
Mr.  Foster  s observations,  and  notes  taken  down  by 
friends  of  twenty-one  sermons.  The  American  reprint 
(New  York,  Harper  and  Brothers,  1 vols.  8vo)  contains, 
besides  what  is  given  in  the  English  edition,  a number 
of  additional  sermons,  with  anecdotes,  etc.,  by  Kev.  Jo- 
seph Belcher. 

Hubert  Hall  was  one  of  the  greatest  preachers  of  his 
age.  I lis  “excellence  did  not  so  much  consist  in  the 
predominance  of  one  of  his  powers  as  in  the  exquisite 
proportion  and  harmony  of  them  all.  The  richness,  va- 
riety, and  extent  of  his  knowledge  were  not  so  remark- 
able as  his  absolute  mastery  over  it.  There  is  not  the 
least  appearance  of  straining  after  greatness  in  his  most 
magnificent  excursions,  but  lie  rises  to  the  loftiest 
heights  with  the  most  childlike  ease.  Ilis  style  as  a 
writer  is  one  of  the  clearest  and  simplest— the  least  en- 
cumbered with  its  own  beauty — of  any  which  ever  has 
been  written.  His  noblest  passages  do  but  make  truth 
visible  in  the  form  of  beauty,  and  ‘clothe  upon’  abstract 
ideas  till  they  become  palpable  in  exquisite  shapes. 
‘Whoever  wishes  to  see  the  English  language  in  its 
perfection,’  says  Dugald  Stovart,  ‘must  read  the  writ- 
ings of  Rev.  Robert  Hall.  lie  combines  the  beauties  of 
Johnson,  Addison,  and  Burke,  without  their  imperfec- 
tions.’” He  is  distinguished,  however,  rather  for  ex- 
pression and  exposition  than  for  invention ; he  was  an 
orator  rather  than  a great  thinker.  But  as  an  orator 
he  will  rank  in  literature  with  Bossuet  and  [Massillon. 
For  critical  estimates  of  him  by  Mackintosh  and  other 
eminent  men,  see  Life  of  Half,  by  Gregory,  prefixed  to 
his  Works;  also  Eclectic  Magazine,  \ ii,  1;  North  Brit- 
ish Review,  iv,  454;  North  American  Review,  lxiv,  384; 
Methodist  Quarterly  Rerieic,  iv,  516;  Quarterly  Review 
(-Lend.),  xlvii,  160;  English  Cyclopaedia ; Jamieson,  Re- 
ligious Biography,  p.  246. 

Hallel  (VaIH,  Gr.  vpvoq),  tlid  designation  of  a par- 
ticular part  of  the  hymnal  service,  chanted  in  the  Tem- 
ple and  in  the  family  on  certain  festivals. 

1.  Origin  of  the  name,  contents  of  the  service,  etc.  The 

name  hallel',  which  signifies  praise,  is  kut  t£oyd v, 
given  to  this  distinct  portion  of  the  hymnal  service  be- 
cause it  consists  of  Psalms  cxiii-cxviii,  which  are  Psalms 
of  praise,  and  because  this  group  of  Psalms  begins  with 
Hallelujah.  It  is  also  called  Ykf\,the 

Egyptian  Hallel,  because  it  was  chanted  in  the  Temple 
whilst  the  Passover  lambs,  which  were  first  enjoined  in 
Egypt,  were  being  slain.  There  is  another  Hallel  called 

the  Great  Hallel  (so  called  because  of  the 
reiterated  response  after  every  verse,  “For  thy  mercy 
endureth  forever,”  in  Psa.  cxxxvi,  which  is  part  of  this 
Hallel),  which,  according  to  R.  Jchudali  (Pesachim,  118) 
and  Maimonides,  comprises  Psalms  cxviii-cxxxvi  (Jod 
Ha-Chezaka,  Hilchoth  Chamez  u.  Maza,  viii,  10).  Oth- 
ers, however,  though  agreeing  that  this  Hallel  cuds  with 
Psalm  cxxxvi,  maintain  that  it  begins  with  Psalm  exx 
or  Psalm  cxxxv,  4 ( Pesachim , 118). 

2.  Time  and  manner  in  which  it  was  chanted. — This 
hymnal  service,  or  Egyptian  Hallel,  was  chanted  at  the 
sacrifice  of  the  first  and  second  Ptsach,  after  the  daily 

| sacrifice  on  the  first  day  of  Passover  (Mislma,  Pesachim, 
I v,  7),  after  the  morning  sacrifice  on  the  Feast  of  I’cntc- 
l cost,  the  eight  days  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  ( Mislma, 
i Surra,  iv,  8),  and  the  eight  days  of  the  Feast  of  Dedica- 
I tion  (Mislma,  Taanith,  v,  5),  making  in  all  twenty  days 
in  the  year.  “On  twelve  days  out  of  the  twenty,  viz., 

I at  the  sacrifice  of  the  first  and  second  Pcsach,of  the  first 
day  of  Pesach,  of  the  Feast  of  Pentecost,  and  of  the  eight 
days  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  the  flute  was  played 
before  the  altar  when  the  Hallel  was  chanted”  (Mislma, 
! Pesachim,  ii, 3),  whilst  after  the  morning  sacrifice  during 
j the  eight  days  of  the  Feast  of  Dedication  the.  Hallel  was 
i chanted  without  this  accompaniment  of  the  flute,  llic 
manner  in  which  these  hymns  of  praise  were  offered 
l must  have  been  very  imposing  and  impressive.  The 


HALLEL 


32 


HALLELUJAH 


Levites  who  could  be  spared  from  assisting  at  the  slav- 
ing of  the  sacritiees  took  their  stand  before  the  altar, 
and  chanted  the  Hallel  verse  by  verse;  the  people  re- 
sponsively repeated  every  verse,  or  burst  forth  in  sol- 
emn and  intoned  Hallelujahs  at  every  pause,  whilst  the 
slaves  of  the  priests,  1 he  Levites,  and  the  respectable  lay 
people  assisted  in  playing  the  flute  (comp.  Pesachim,  64, 
a;  Erachim,  10,  a,  b;  and  Tosipha  on  Cap.  i;  Sofa,  27, 
b ; Taanith , 28,  a,  b).  No  representatives  of  the  people 
(T2?  - TIN)  were  required  to  be  present  at  the  Tem- 
ple at  the  morning  sacrifices  on  the  days  when  the  Hal- 
id was  chanted  (Mishna,  Taanith,  iv,  4).  See  Sacri- 
KU'lv. 

The  Egyptian  Ifallcl  was  also  chanted  in  private  fam- 
ilies at  the  celebration  of  the  Passover  on  the  first  even- 
ing of  this  feast.  On  this  occasion  the  JIallel  was  di- 
vided into  two  parts;  the  part  comprising  Psa. cxiii  and 
cxiv  was  chanted  during  the  partaking  of  the  second 
cup,  whilst  the  second  part,  comprising  Psa.  cxv  and 
oxvi,  was  chanted  over  the  fourth  and  finishing  cup 
(55 nn  rx  Mishna,  Pesachim,  x,7); 

and  it  is  generally  supposed  that  the  singing  of  the 
hymn  by  our  Saviour  and  his  disciples  at  the  conclusion 
of  the  Passover  supper  (Matt.  xxvi,30;  Mark  xiv,  2G) 
refers  to  the  last  part  of  this  Ilallel.  (Dean  Alford 
[ Creek  Testament,  ad  loc.]  strangely  confounds  this  Hal- 
id with  the  Great  Ilallel.')  In  Babylon  there  was  an 
ancient  custom,  which  can  be  traced  as  far  back  as  the 
2d  century  of  the  Christian  aera,  to  recite  this  Hallel  on 
every  festival  of  the  new  moon  ( Taanith , 28,  a),  omit- 
ting, however,  Psa.  cxv,  1-11,  and  cxvi,  1-11. 

The  great  Ilallel  (b*15n  .bbl"I)  was  recited  on  the 
first  evening  at  the  Passover  supper  by  those  who  wish- 
ed to  have  a Jifth  cup,  i.  e.  one  above  the  enjoined  num- 
ber (Maimonides,  Jod  Ha-Chezaka,  Ililchoih  Chamez  v. 
Muza,  viii,  10).  It  was  also  recited  on  occasions  of 
great  joy,  as  an  expression  of  thanksgiving  to  God  for 
special  mercies  (Mishna,  Taanith,  iii,  9). 

3.  Present  use  of  the  Hymnal  Serriec. — The  Jews  to 
the  present  day  recite  the  Egyptian  Hallel  at  the  morn- 
ing prayer  immediately  after  the  Eighteen  Benedictions 
(HT5  nr^r)  on  all  the  festivals  of  the  year  except 
A 'em  Year  and  the  Day  of  A tonement,  omitting  Psa.  cxv, 
1-1 1,  and  cxvi,  1 1 1,  on  the  last  six  days  of  the  Feast  of 
Passover,  and  on  the  new  moon.  Before  the  Ilallel  is  re- 
cited they  pronounce  the  following  benediction : “ Bless- 
ed art  thou.  Lord  our  God,  King  of  the  world,  who  hast 
sanctified  us  with  thy  commandments,  and  enjoined  upon 
ns  to  recite  the  Hallel!”  At  the  Passover  supper,  on 
the  first  two  evenings  of  the  festival,  both  the  Egyptian 
Hallel  and  the  Great  Ilallel  are  now  recited;  the  former 
is  still  divided  in  the  same  manner  as  it  was  in  the  days 
of  our  Saviour. 

4.  Institution  of  this  Hymnal  Service. — It  is  now  im- 
possible to  ascertain  precisely  when  this  service  was  first 
instituted.  Some  of  the  Talmudists  affirm  that  it  was 
instituted  by  Moses,  others  say  that  Joshua  introduced 
it,  others  derive  it  from  Deborah,  David,  llezekiah,  or 
llananiah,  Mishael  and  Azariah  ( Pesachim , 117,  a). 
From  2 ('limn,  xxxv,  15,  we  see  that  the  practice  of  the 
Levites  chanting  the  Ilallel  while  the  Paschal  lambs 
were  hi  the  act  of  being  slain  was  already  in  vogue  in 
the  days  of  Josiali,  and  it  is  not  at  all  improbable  that  it 
was  customary  to  do  so  at  a much  earlier  period. 

b.  L iteratmv.  M a i m onides, ./ od  Ha-Chezaka,  Hilchoth 
Chamez  it.  Maza,  sections  vii  and  viii,  vol.  i,  p.  203-265 • 
Buxtorf,  Lexicon  Chaldaicum  Talmud icum  < t Rabbini- 
cum,  s.  v.  55n,  col.  013-016;  and  Bartoloccii,  Bibliotheca 
Magna  Itabbinica,  ii,  227-243,  have  important  treatises 
upon  this  subject,  but  their  information  is  most  uncriti- 
cally put  together,  and  no  distinction  is  made  between 
earlier  and  later  practices.  A thoroughlv  masterly  and 
critical  investigation  is  that  of  Krochmal,  More,  Xeboche 
Ila-Seman  (Leopoli,  1851),  p.  135  sip;  comp,  also  E.lel- 
mann  s edition  of  the  Siddur  with  Landshuth’s  Critical 


Annotations  (Konigsberg,  1845),  p.  423  sq.;  Herzfeld, 
Geschichte  des  Volkes  Israel  (Nordhausen,  1857),  ii,  169 
sq. — Kit  to,  s.  v. 

Halleluiah  (Heb . hallelu'-yah',  ?,  Praise 

ye  Jah,  i.  e.  Jehovah!)  or  (in  its  Greek  form)  Allelu'- 
iaii  ('A \\ij\ovia),  a word  which  stands  at  the  begin- 
ning of  many  of  the  Psalms.  See  Muller,  Be  notione 
Hallelujah  (Cygn.  1690);  Wemsdorf,  De  formula  Hal- 
lelujah (Viteb.  1763).  From  its  frequent  occurrence  in 
this  position  it  grew  into  a formula  of  praise,  and  was 
chanted  as  such  on  solemn  days  of  rejoicing.  (See  Crit- 
ica  Biblica,  ii,  448.)  This  is  intimated  by  the  apocry- 
phal hook  of  Tobit  (xiii,  18)  when  speaking  of  the  re- 
building of  Jerusalem,  “And  all  her  (Jerusalem’s)  streets 
shall  sing  Alleluia”  (comp.  Rev.  xix,  1, 3, 4,  6).  This 
expression  of  joy  and  praise  was  transferred  from  the 
synagogue  to  the  church,  and  is  still  occasionally  heard 
in  devotional  psalmody. — Kitto.  The  Hebrew  terms  are 
frequently  rendered  “Praise  ye  the  Lord;”  and  so  in  the 
margin  of  Psa.  civ, 35;  cv,45;  evi;  cxi,l;  cxii,  1;  cxiii, 
1 (comp.  Psa.  cxiii,  9 ; cxv,  18 ; cx%i,  19 ; cxvii,  2).  The 
Psalms  from  cxiii  to  cxviii  were  called  by  the  Jews  the 
Hallel,  and  were  sung  on  the  first  of  the  month,  at  the 
Feast  of  Dedication,  and  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  the 
Feast  of  Weeks,  and  the  Feast  of  the  Passover.  See  Ho- 
sanna. On  the  last  occasion  Psa.  cxiii  and  cxiv,  ac- 
cording to  the  school  of  llillel  (the  former  only  accord- 
ing to  the  school  of  Shammai),  were  sung  before  the 
feast,  and  the  remainder  at  its  termination,  after  drink- 
ing the  last  cup.  The  hymn  (Matt,  xxvi,  30)  sung  by 
Christ  and  his  disciples  after  the  last  supper  is  supposed 
to  have  been  a part  of  this  Hallel,  which  seems  to 
have  varied  according  to  the  feast.  See  Hallel.  The 
literal  meaning  of  “ hallelujah”  sufficiently  indicates  the 
character  of  the  Psalms  in  which  it  occurs,  as  hymns  of 
praise  and  thanksgiving.  They  are  all  found  in  the 
last  book  of  the  collection,  and  bear  marks  of  being  in- 
tended for  use  in  the  Temple  service,  the  words  “praise 
ye  Jehovah”  being  taken  up  by  the  full  chorus  of  Le- 
vites. See  Psalms.  In  the  great  hymn  of  triumph  in 
heaven  over  the  destruction  of  Babylon,  the  apostle  in 
vision  heard  the  multitnde  in  chorus  like  the  voice  of 
mighty  thunderings  burst  forth  “ Alleluia,  for  the  Lord 
God  omnipotent  reigneth,”  responding  to  the  voice 
which  came  out  of  the  throne,  saying,  “ Praise  our  God, 
all  ye  his  servants,  and  ye  that  fear  him,  both  small  and 
great”  (Rev.  xix,  1-6).  In  this,  as  in  the  offering  of  in- 
cense (Rev.  viii),  there  is  evident  allusion  to  the  service 
of  the  Temple,  as  the  apostle  had  often  witnessed  it  in 
its  fading  grandeur. — Smith,  s.  v.  Allelouia.  See  Rev- 
elation, Book  of. 

HALLELUJAH,  a doxology  used  frequently  in  the 
ancient  Church,  and  derived  from  the  Old  Testament. 
The  singing  Hallelujah  sometimes  means  the  repetition 
of  the  word,  in  imitation  of  the  heavenly  host  (see  Rev. 
xix) ; at  other  times  it  has  reference  to  one  of  the  psalms 
beginning  with  H-allelujah.  In  the  early  Christian  Church 
“ the  more  common  acceptation  of  ‘ hallelujah’  is  for  the 
singing  of  the  word  itself  in  special  parts  of  divine  ser- 
vice, as  a sort,  of  mutual  call  to  each  other  to  praise  the 
Lord.”  In  some  churches  the  Hallelujah  was  sung  only 
on  Easter  day  and  the  fifty  days  of  Pentecost;  in  others 
it  was  used  more  generally.  Augustine  says  it  was  not 
used  in  time  of  Lent  (Augustine,  Epist.  119, 178).  In  the 
fourth  Council  of  Toledo  it  is  mentioned  under  the  name 
Landes,  and  appointed  to  be  sung  after  the  reading  of  the 
Gospel  ( Concil . Tolet.  iv,  can.  10, 11).  It  was  occasion- 
ally sung  at  funerals:  St.  Jerome  speaks  of  it  as  being 
siuig  at  the  funeral  of  Fabiola,  and  says  the  people  made 
the  golden  roof  of  the  church  shake  with  echoing  forth 
the  Hallelujah  ( Contra  Vigilant . cap.  1,  and  Epist.  xxx, 
cap.  4).  The  ancient  Church  retained  the  Hebrew  word, 
as  also  did  the  Church  of  England  in  its  first  Liturgy ; 
though  now  it  is  translated  “ Praise  ye  the  Lord,”  to 
which  the  people  reply,  “ The  Lord’s  name  be  praised.” 
See  Bingham,  Orig.  Eccles.  bk.  xiv,  ch.  ii,  § 4;  Procter, 


HALLOW 


HALLER  3 

On  Common  Prayer , p.  212 ; Coleman,  A ncient  Christian- 
ity, ell.  xv,  § 9. 

Haller,  Albrecht  von,  one  of  the  greatest  of 
modern  physiologists,  was  horn  in  Berne  Oct.  16,  1708, 
and  displayed,  even  in  childhood,  the  most  extraordi- 
nary talents.  He  studied  medicine  first  at  Tubingen, 
and  afterwards  at  Leyden,  under  Boerhaavc.  After  ex- 
tensive travels  he  became  professor  of  anatomy,  surgery, 
and  botany  at  Gottingen  in  1730,  and  remained  there 
until  1753,  when  he  returned  to  Berne.  There  he  re- 
sided, honored  by  his  fellow-citizens,  for  nearly  a quar- 
ter of  a century;  continued  to  henetit  science  by  his  lit- 
erary labors;  filled  several  important  offices  in  the  state, 
and  adorned  the  Gospel  by  his  life,  lie  died  in  Octo- 
ber, 1777.  . A great  part  of  the  modem  science  of  physi- 
ology is  due  to  the  labors  and  genius  of  Haller.  But 
his  place  in  our  pages  is  due  to  his  steady  religious  life, 
to  his  constant  recognition,  in  his  works,  of  the  great 
truths  of  Christianity,  and  especially  to  his  religious 
writings,  viz.  Brief e iiber  die  wichtigsten  Wahrheiten  Her 
Ofenbarung  (Berne,  1772);  Brief e zur  Vertheidiyung  der 
Ofenbarung  (Berne,  1775-77,  3 parts),  consisting  of  let- 
ters fo  his  daughter  on  the  truth  and  excellence  of  Chris- 
tianity. See  Zimmermann,  Leben  Hallers  (Zurich,  1755, 
8vo) ; Biographie  de  Haller  (Paris,  1846,  2d  edit.). 

Haller,  Berthold,  one  of  the  Reformers  of  Berne, 
was  born  at  Aldingen,  WiYrtemberg,  in  1492.  At  Pforz- 
heim he  had  Melancthon  for  a fellow-student,  and  grad- 
uated bachelor  at  Cologne  in  1512.  After  teaching 
some  time  at  Rottweil  he  went  to  Berne,  invited  by  Ru- 
bellus  in  1513  (1518?).  lie  became  assistant  to  Dr. 
Wyttenbach  in  St.  Vincent's  church,  and  in  his  society, 
his  knowledge  of  the  Scriptures  and  his  religious  char- 
acter were  greatly  cultivated.  About  1520  he  made  the 
acquaintance  of  Zwingle,  who  was  always  afterwards  his 
faithful  friend  and  counsellor.  Shortly  after  he  succeed- 
ed Wyttenbach  as  cathedral  preacher,  and  soon  began 
to  expound  Matthew,  instead  of  following  the  usual 
Church  lessons  only.  His  eloquence  and  zeal  made  him 
extremely  popular.  When  the  strife  began  in  1522 
Haller  was  a member  of  the  commission,  and  distin- 
guished himself  in  the  conference  by  his  opposition  to 
the  bishop  of  Lausanne.  His  hold  upon  the  popular 
mind  w as  so  great  that  in  the  subsequent  years  of  strife 
he  held  his  place  as  preacher  in  spite  of  all  opposition, 
and  contributed  greatly,  not  so  much  by  his  learning  as 
by  his  personal  force  of  character,  to  the  establishment 
of  the  Reformation  in  Berne.  Even  with  the  Anabap- 
tists, on  their  appearance  in  Berne,  he  obtained  great 
influence.  In  1525  he  courageously  abandoned  the 
Mass.  In  the  Grand  Council  he  defended  himself  so 
vigorously  that  he  was  still  kept  in  office  as  preacher, 
though  he  lost  his  canonship.  In  1527  a number  of  Re- 
formers wrere  elected  to  the  “ Grand  Council.”  The 
venerable  Francis  Kolb,  full  of  fire  and  energy,  was  nowr 
in  Berne,  ready  to  aid  and  stimulate  the  more  prudent 
Haller.  The  “M  mdates”  of  1523  and  1526,  the  former 
for,  the  latter  against  the  Reformation,  Averc  submitted 
to  the  people,  and  they  decided  for  the  first.  In  the 
“Conference”  of  1528,  at  Berne,  Ilaller  took  the  leading 
part,  aided  by  Zwingle,  CEcolampadius,  and  Buccr.  It 
was  finally  decreed  by  the  Conference  that  the  Mass 
should  be  abolished.  In  1529  he  married.  His  labors 
for  the  Reformation  extended  to  Solotlium,  and  to  other 
parts  of  Switzerland ; but  his  chief  activity  lay  in  Berne, 
where  he  held  his  pre-eminence  as  preacher  and  Re- 
former until  his  death,  Feb.  25,  153G.  He  left  no  writ- 
ings. See  Kirchhofer,  Haller  oder  die  Reform,  v.  Bern 
(Zurich,  1828);  Kuhn,  Die  Reformatoren  Perns  (Berne, 
1828);  D’Aubigne,  History  of  Reformation,  ii,  349;  iii, 
336;  iv,  296,  308;  Herzog,  Real-Encykloj).  v,  479. 

Haller,  Karl  Ludwig  von,  Avas  born  at  Berne 
Aug.  1,  1768.  In  1795  he  became  secretary  of  the  city 
council,  and  in  1800  emigrated  to  Germany.  In  1806 
he  returned,  and  became  professor  of  history  and  statis- 
tics at  Berne.  In  1814  he  became  member  of  the  city 
IV.- C 


council,  and  in  1818  made  a journey  through  Italy  and 
to  Rome.  Having  secretly  become  a member  of  the 
Romish  Church  in  1820,  he  joined  it  openly  in  1821, 
and  AAras  discharged  from  his  office.  He  tlitn  Avent  to 
Paris  in  1824,  and  Avas  employed  in  the  ministry  of  for- 
eign affairs.  Having  lost  that  situation  in  consequence 
of  the  Revolution  of  July,  1830,  ke  finally  avc  nt  to  Solo- 
thurn,  Avlierc  he  Avas  in  1834  appointed  number  of  the 
lesser  council.  Here  he  was  at  the  head  of  the  Ultra- 
montane party,  and  died  May  20,  1854.  Haller  Avas  an 
ultra-conservative  in  politics,  and  Avas  draAvn  into  the 
Church  of  Rome  by  his  fanatical  hatred  of  all  liberal  re- 
forms. II  is  chief  Avork,  entitled  Restauration  der  Stuats- 
wissenschoften  ('Winterthur,  1816-1834,6  vols.),Avas  writ- 
ten Avith  the  design  to  annihilate  all  revolutionary  prin- 
ciples in  politics.  Even  many  Roman  Catholic  Avriters 
expressed  a decided  dissent  from  the  antilibcral  doctrines 
of  this  AA’ork.  The  most  important  among  his  other 
Avorks  are,  Lcttre  a su  famille  pour  lui  declarer  son  rc- 
tour  a I'eglise  catholique  (Par.  1821 ; in  German  by  Pau- 
lus,  Stuttgard,  1821 ; by  Studcr,  Berne,  1821): — Theorie 
der  geistf.  Staaten  u.  Gesellschaften  (Winterthur,  1822): — 
Die  Freimaurerei  v.  ihr  Einfluss  auf  d.  Schweiz  (Sehaff- 
hausen,  1840): — Gesch.  der  kirchl.  Rerolnt.  des  Cantons 
Bern  (Lucerne,  1839,4th  cel.).  See  Tzseliirner,  der  Uiler- 
tritt  des  llerrn  von  II.  z.  katholisehcn  Kirche  (Lpz.  1821); 
Krug,  Apolvgie  der  protestanfischen  Kirche  (Lpz.  1821); 
Esclicr,  Ucber  die  Philosophic  des  Staatsrechts  mit  bes. 
Bezieh.  auf  d.  Ilaller'sche  Restauration  (Zurich,  1825); 
Scherer  (ultramontane),  Die  Restauration  der  Stauts- 
icissensch.  (Lucerne,  1845). 

Hallet,  JoSEnr,  an  English  Nonconformist,  Avas 
born  at  Exeter  in  1692,  ordained  in  1713,  and  succeeded 
his  father  as  co-pastor  Avith  Mr.  Pierce  over  the  Inde- 
pendent congregation  at  Exeter  in  1722.  Here  he  dis- 
charged his  pastoral  duties  faithfully  until  his  death  in 
1744.  As  a Avritcr,  he  Avas  marked  by  industry,  learn- 
ing, and  critical  sagacity.  He  Avrote  a number  of  con- 
troversial tracts  on  the  Evidences  of  Christianity  in  reply 
to  Tindal  and  Chubb,  and  on  the  Trinity.  Besides 
these,  he  published  A free  and  impartial  Study  of  the 
Holy  Scriptures  recommended,  being  notes  on  peculiar 
texts  of  Scripture  (Lond.  1729-36, 3 A ids.  8vo) : — A Par- 
aphrase and  Notes  on  the  three  last  Chapters  of  the  Epis- 
tle to  the  Hebrews  (London,  1733,  4to).  In  theology  he 
Avas  a semi-Arian.  See  Hogue  and  Bennett,  History  of 
Dissenters , ii,  179,  222 ; Jones,  Christian  Biography. 

Hallifax,  Samvel,  bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  Avas  horn 
at  Mansfield,  Derbyshire,  in  1733.  He  studied  at  Jesus 
College,  Cambridge,  and  at  Trinity  Hall,  and  became 
successively  rector  of  Chadelingfon,  Buckinghamshire, 
in  1765;  professor  of  Arabic  at  Cambridge  in  1768;  pro- 
fessor of  jurisprudence  in  1770;  chaplain  of  George  III 
in  1774;  master  of  Doctors’  Commons  in  1775;  rector 
of  Warsop,  Nottinghamshire,  in  1778.  and  bishop  of 
Gloucester  in  1781.  He  Avas  transferred  to  the  see  of 
St. Asaph  in  1787,  and  died  in  17f0.  He  Avrote  An 
Analysis  of  the  Roman  Civil  Law  compared  with  the 
Laics  of  England  (1774,  8vo) : — Twelve  Sermons  on  the 
Prophecies  concerning  the  Christian  Religion,  and  in  par- 
ticular concerning  the  Church  of  Rapal  Rome,  preached 
in  Lincoln's  Inn  Chapel  at  Bishop  Warburtou's  Lecture 
(1776,  8a’o)  : — An  Analysis  of  Butler's  Analogy  .‘—Dis- 
courses on  Justification  (Camb.  1762.  8vo).  See  Rose, 
New  General  Biog.  Diet. ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate, 
xxiii,  197 ; British  Critic,  vol.  xxvii. 

Hallo 'hesh  or,  rather,  Lociiesii  (Ilcb.  I.ocheshf 
L:nib,  AAith  the  article  dni^,  hal-lochesh the  whis- 
perer; Sept.  'AWwijc  and  ‘AXioijc,  Vulg.  Alohes),  the 
father  of  Shallum,  Avhie’n  latter  assisted  Nehcmiah  in 
repairing  the  Avails  of  Jerusalem  (Nell,  iii,  12,  Avhcrc  the 
name  is  Anglicized  “ Halohesh”).  He  Avas  one  of  the 
popular  chiefs  that  subscribed  the  sacred  covenant  Avith 
Nehemiah  (Neh.  x,  24).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

Hallow  (Ol£,in  Picl ; ayvia^io),  to  render  sacred, 
set  apart,  consecrate  (Exod.  xxviii,  38 ; xxix,  1 ; Lev. 


HALOIIESH 


34 


ham 


xxii,  2;  Numb,  v,  10).  The  English  word  is  from  the 
Saxon,  and  is  properly  to  make  holy ; hence  hallowed 
persons,  things,  places,  rites,  etc.;  hence  also  the  name, 
power,  dignity  of  God  is  hallowed,  that  is,  reverenced 
as  holy  (Matt,  vi,  9). — C-ahnct,  s.  v.  See  Holv. 

Halo'hesli  (Xeh.  iii,  12).  Sec  Halloiiesh. 

Halt  ("SS,  lame  on  the  feet  or  legs  (Gen. 

xxxii,  31;  Psa.  xxxviii,  17;  Jer.  xx,  10;  Mic.  iv,  6; 
vii,  1;  Zeph.  iii,  19).  Many  persons  who  were  halt 
were  cured  by  our  Lord.  See  La. me.  To  halt  between 
two  opinions  (HC2,  1 Kings  xviii,  21),  shoidd,  perhaps, 
be  to  stagger  from  one  to  the  other  repeatedly;  but 
some  say  it  is  an  allusion  to  birds,  who  hop  from  spray 
to  spray,  forwards  and  backwards,  as  the  contrary  in- 
fluence of  supposed  convictions  vibrated  the  mind  in 
alternate  affirmation  and  doubtfulness. — Calmet,  s.  v. 


Halyburton,  Thomas,  professor  of  divinity  in  the 
University  of  St.  Andrew’s,  was  born  at  Duplin,  near 
Perth,  Dec.  25,  17(54.  lie  was  in  early  youth  the  sub- 
ject of  frequent  but  ineffectual  religious  comictions. 
In  1689  he  began  to  be  perplexed  respecting  the  evi- 
dences of  revealed  religion,  till,  after  having  experienced 
some  relief  from  Robert  Bruce’s  Fulfilling  of  the  Scrip- 
tures, he  received  further  aid  from  Mr.  Donaldson,  an 
excellent  old  minister  who  came  to  preach  at  Perth, 
and  paid  a visit  to  his  mother.  lie  inquired  of  his 
young  friend  if  he  sought  a blessing  from  God  on  his 
learning,  remarking  at  the  same  time,  with  an  austere 
look,  “ Sirrah,  unsanctified  learning  has  done  much  mis- 
chief to  the  Kirk  of  God.”  This  led  him  to  seek  divine 
direction  in  extraordinary  difficulties;  but  this  exercise, 
he  acknowledges,  left  him  still  afar  off  from  God.  lie 
studied  at  St.  Andrew’s,  and  became  domestic  chaplain 
in  a nobleman’s  family  in  169(5.  Ilis  mind,  long  disqui- 
eted about  the  evidences  of  Christianity,  was  finally  set- 
tled, and  he  wrote  an  Inquiry  into  the  Principles  of  mod- 
ern Deists,  which  is  still  valued.  In  1698  he  was  thor- 
oughly converted;  in  1700  he  became  minister  of  Ceres 
parish.  In  1711  he  was  made  professor  of  divinity  at 
St.  Andrew  s,  and  died  in  1/12.  He  was  an  excellent 
scholar,  and  a very  pious  man.  A sketch  of  his  life  is 
given  in  his  JUorfo,  edited  by  Robert  Burns,  D.D.  (Lon- 
don, 1835,  8vo),  which  volume  contains  the  following, 
among  other  writings,  viz.  The  great  Concern  of  Salva- 
tion:—Xaf  oral  Religion  insufficient Essay  on  the  Na- 
ture of  J'uith: — Inquiry  on  Justification,  and  Sermons. 
Ilalyburton’s  Memoirs,  willi  an  introductory  Essay  by 
the  Rev.  Dr.  Young  (Glasg.  1824,  l2mo),  has  been  often 
reprinted,  both  in  Great  Britain  and  America. 


Ham  ( Ileb.  Chum,  cn,  hot  [sec  below] ; Sept.  Xa 
[Josephus  X cigar,  Ant.  i'  l,  l],Vulg.  Cham),  the  narr 
of  a man  and  also  of  two  regions. 

1.  I be  j omigcst  son  of  Xoah  (Gen.  v,  32;  comp,  i: 
24).  B.C.  post  2613.  Having  provoked  the  wrath  o 
his  father  by  an  act  of  indecency  towards  him,  the  lai 
ter  cursed  him  and  his  descendants  to  he  slaves  to  h 
brothers  and  their  descendants  (ix,  25).  B.C.  cir.  25b 
To  judge,  however,  from  the  narrative,  Noali  directe 
his  curse  only  against  Canaan  (the  fourth  son  of  Han 
and  his  race,  thus  excluding  from  it  the  descendants  c 
llain  s three  other  sons,  Cush,  Mizraim,  and  Phut  (Gei 
x,  6).  How  that  curse  was  accomplished  is  taught  b 
tho  history  of  the  Jews,  by  whom  the  Canaanites  we. 
subsequently  exterminated.  The  general  opinion 
that  all  the  southern  nations  derive  their  origin  froi 
Ham  (to  which  the  Hebrew  root  DdH,  to  be  hot,  iu 
unlike  the  Greek  AiOioirttj,  lends  some  force).  Th 
meaning  seems  to  be  confirmed  bv  that  of  the  Egvptia 
word  Kem  (Egypt),  which  is  believed  to  l.e  the  Egvr 
Pan  equivalent  of  Ham,  and  which,  as  an  adject  in 
signifies  “black,”  probably  implying  warmth  as  well  r 
blackness.  See  Enver.  If  the  Hebrew  and  Egvptia 
Mords  be  the  same,  Ham  must  mean  the  swarthy  c 
sun-burnt,  like  AiOioxf/,  which  has  been  derived  from  th 
Coptic  name  of  Ethiopia,  etkops,  but  which  we  shoul 


be  inclined  to  trace  to  (hops,  “a  boundary,”  unless  the 
Sahidic  esops  may  be  derived  from  Kish  (Cush).  It  is 
observable  that  the  names  of  Noah  and  his  sons  appear 
to  have  had  prophetic  significations.  This  is  stated  in 
the  case  of  Noah  (Gen.  v,  29),  and  implied  in  that  of 
Japheth  (ix,  27),  and  it  can  scarcely  be  doubted  that 
the  same  must  be  concluded  as  to  Shem.  Ham  may 
therefore  have  been  so  named  as  progenitor  of  the  sun- 
burnt Egyptian?  and  Cushites.  Cush  is  supposed  to 
have  been  the  progenitor  of  the  nations  of  East  and 
South  Asia,  more  especially  of  South  Arabia,  and  also 
of  Ethiopia;  Mizraim,  of  the  African  nations,  including 
the  Philistines  and  some  other  tribes  which  Greek  fable 
and  tradition  connect  with  Egypt ; Phut,  likewise  of 
some  African  nations;  and  Canaan,  of  the  inhabitants 
of  Palestine  and  Phoenicia.  On  the  Arabian  traditions 
concerning  Ham,  see  D’Herbelot  (Bill.  Orient,  s.  v.). 
See  Noah. 

A.  Ham's  Place  in  his  Family.  Idolatry  connected 
with  his  Name. — Like  his  brothers,  he  was  married  at 
the  time  of  the  Deluge,  and  with  his  wife  was  saved 
from  the  general  destruction  in  the  ark  which  his  father 
had  prepared  at  God’s  command.  He  was  thus,  with 
his  family,  a connecting  link  between  the  antediluvian 
population  and  those  wlio  survived  the  Flood.  The  sal- 
ient fact  of  his  impiety  and  dishonor  to  his  lather  had 
also  caused  him  to  be  regarded  as  the  transmitter  and 
representative  in  the  renovated  world  of  the  worst  feat- 
ures of  idolatry  and  profaneness,  which  had  grown  to 
so  fatal  a consummation  among  the  antediluvians.  Lac- 
tantius  mentions  this  ancient  tradition  of  Ilam’s  idola- 
trous degeneracy:  “Ille  [Cham]  profugus  in  ejus  ter  Re 
parte  consedit,  qure  nunc  Arabia  nominatur;  eaque  ter- 
ra de  nomine  siio  Chanaan  dicta  est,  et  posteri  ejus  Cha- 
nanaei.  llaec  fait  prima  gens  quae  Deum  ignoravit, 
quoniam  princeps  ejus  [Chamj  et  comlitor  cultumDei  a 
patre  non  accepit,  muledictus  ab  eo ; ituque  ignorantiam 
divinitatis  minoribus  suis  reliquil ” {De  orig.  errons , ii, 
13;  De  falsa  Relig.  23).  Sec  other  authors  quoted  in 
Beyer’s  Addit.  ad  Seldeni  Syntag.  de  Diis  Syns  (Ugoli- 
no,  Thes.  xxiii,  288).  This  tradition  was  rife  also  among 
the  Jews.  R.  Manasse  says,  “ Moreover  Ham,  the  son 
of  Noah,  was  the  first  to  invent  idols,”  etc.  The  Tyrian 
idols  called  Chamannn,  are  supposed  by  Kircher 

to  have  their  designation  from  the  degenerate  son  of 
Noah  (see  Spencer,  De  legg.  Ilebr.  [ed.  Pfaff]  p.  470- 
482).  The  old  commentators,  full  of  classical  associa- 
tions, saw  in  Noah  and  his  sons  the  counterpart  of  Koo- 
voc,  or  Saturn,  and  his  three  divine  sons,  of  whom  they 
identified  Jupiter  or  Z tvg  with  Ham,  especially,  as  the 
name  suggested,  the  African  Jupiter  Ammon  (Apjiovv 
[or,  more  correctly,  'Ago bv,  so  Gaisford  and  Bahr]  yao 
AiyvTTTioi  KaXUofrn  rbv  At  a,  Herod,  Euterp.  42,  Plu- 
tarch explains  ’A/ioiiv  by  the  better  known  form  Ap- 
gmv.  Is.  et  Osir.  ix.  In  Jer.  xlvi,  25,  “the  multitude 
of  No”  is  "ji -X,  Amon  of  No;  so  in  Nahum  iii,  8, 
“Populous  No”  is  No- A man,  X3.  For  the  identi- 

fication of  Jupiter  Ammon  with  Ham,  see  J.  Conr.  Dann- 
hauer’s  Politica  Biblicn , ii,  1 ; Is.  Vossius,  De  Idol.  lib.  ii, 
cap.  7).  This  identitication  is,  however,  extremely 
doubtful;  eminent  critics  of  modern  times  reject  it; 
among  them  Ewald  (Ceschichte  des  Volkes  Israel,  i,  375 
[note]),  who  says,  “Mit.  dem  iigyptischen  Gotte  Amon 
odor  Gammon  ihn  zusammenzubringen  hat  man  keinen 
Grund,"  u.  s.  w.).  One  of  the  reasons  which  leads  Bo- 
chart  ( Phaleg , i,  1,  ed.  Villemand,  p.  7)  to  identify  Ham 
with  Jupiter  or  Zens  is  derived  from  the  meaning  of  the 
names,  drt  (from  the  root  ddtl,  to  be  hot)  combines 
the  ideas  hot  and  swarthy  (comp.  AiGioxf/) ; accordingly, 
St.  Jerome,  who  renders  our  word  by  calidus,  and  Simon 
{Onomast.  p.  103)  by  niger,  are  not  incompatible.  In 
like  manner,  Ze/>c  is  derived  a fervendo,  according  to  the 
author  of  the  Etymol.  Magn.,  Trapa  t>)v  Zsmv,  Sippora- 
toc  yap  6 ahp,  i)  irapa  to  to  seethe,  or  boil,  fervere. 
Cyril  of  Alexandria  uses  Seopaoiav  as  synonymous  (L 
ii,  Glaphyr.  in  Gems.).  Another  reason  of  identifies- 


HAM 


35 


IIAM 


tion,  according  to  Bocliart,  is  the  fanciful  one  of  com- 
parative age.  Zeus  was  the  youngest  of  three  brothers, 
and  so  was  Ilam  in  the  opinion  of  this  author.  He  is 
not  alone  in  this  view  of  the  subject.  Josephus  (.-lat. 
i,  6,  3)  expressly  calls  Ham  the  youngest  of  Noah’s  sons, 
6 viwruTog  tujv  tt atSwv.  Gesenins  ( Thes . p.  489)  calls 
him  “filius  natu  tertius  et  minimus;”  similarly  Fiirst 
(Hebr.  Worterb.  i,  408),  Knobel  (die  Gen.  erkl.  p.  101), 
Delitzsch  ( Comment . iiber  die  Gen.  p.  280),  and  Kalisch 
(Gen.  p.  229),  which  last  lays  down  the  rule  in  explana- 
tion of  the  “123  applied  to  11am  in  Gen.  ix,  24,  “ If 

there  are  more  than  two  sons,  *(3  is  the  eldest, 

“p-p  *3  the  youngest  son,”  and  he  aptly  compares  1 
Sam.  xvii,  13,  14.  The  Sept.,  it  is  true,  like  the  A.V., 
renders  by  the  comparative — 6 veiorepog,  “ his  younger 
son.”  But,  throughout,  Shem  is  the  term  of  compari- 
son, the  central  point  of  blessing  from  whom  all  else  di- 
verge. lienee  not  only  is  11am  b veiorepog,  in 

comparison  with  Shem,  but  Japhet  is  relatively  to  the 
same  6 peiiiiov  (see  Gen,  x,  21).  That  this  is 

the  proper  meaning  of  this  latter  passage,  which  treats 
of  the  age  of  Japhet,  the  eldest  son  of  Noah,  we  are  con- 
vinced by  the  consideration  just  adduced,  and  our  con- 
viction is  supported  by  the  Sept,  translators,  Symma- 
clius,  Kashi  (who  says,  “From  the  words  of  the  text  I 
do  not  clearly  know  whether  the  elder  applies  to  Shem 
or  to  Japhet.  But,  as  we  are  afterwards  informed  that 
Shem  was  100  years  old,  and  begat  Arphaxad  two  years 
after  the  Deluge  [xi,  10],  it  follows  that  Japhet  teas  the 
Met,  for  Noah  was  500  years  old  when  he  began  to 
have  children,  and  the  Deluge  took  place  in  his  600th 
year.  His  eldest  son  must  consequently  have  been  100 
years  old  at  the  time  of  the  Flood,  whereas  we  are  ex- 
pressly informed  that  Shem  did  not  arrive  at  that  age 
until  two  years  after  the  Deluge”),  Aben-Ezra,  Luther, 
Junius,  and  Tremellius,  Piscator,  Mercerus,  Arius,  Mon- 
tanas, Clericus,  Dathius,  J,  D.  Mic.haelis,  and  Mendels- 
solui  (who  gives  a powerful  reason  for  his  opinion: 
“The  tonic  accents  make  it  clear  that  the  word 
the  elder,  applies  to  Yapheth  ; wherever  the  words  of  the 
text  are  obscure  and  equivocal,  great  respect  and  atten- 
tion must  be  paid  to  the  tonic  accents,  as  their  author 
understood  the  true  meaning  of  the  text  better  than  we 
do,”  I)e  Sola,  Lindenthal,  and  RaphalTs  Trans,  of  Gene- 
sis, p.  43).  In  consistency  with  this  seniority  of  Ja- 
phetlqhis  name  and  genealogy  are  first  given  in  the  To- 
ledoth  Beni  Noah  of  Gen.  x.  Shem's  name  stands  first 
when  the  three  brothers  are  mentioned  together,  proba- 
bly because  the  special  blessing  (afterwards  to  be  more 
fully  developed  in  his  great  descendant  Abraham)  v,ras 
bestowed  on  him  by  God.  But  this  prerogative  by  no 
means  affords  any  proof  that  Shem  was  the  eldest  of 
Noah’s  sons.  The  obvious  instances  of  Seth,  Abraham, 
Isaac,  Jacob,  Judah,  Joseph,  Ephraim,  Closes,  David, 
and  Solomon  (besides  this  of  Shem),  give  sufficient 
ground  for  observing  that  primogeniture  was  far  from 
always  securing  the  privileges  of  birthright  and  blessing, 
and  other  distinctions  (comp.  Gen.  xxv,  23 ; xlviii,  14, 
18,  19,  and  1 Sam.  xvi,  6-12). 


B.  Descendants  of  If  am,  and  their  locality. — The  loose 
distribution  which  assigns  ancient  Asia  to  Shem,  and 
ancient  Africa  to  11am,  requires  much  modification;  for 
although  the  Shemites  had  but  little  connection  with 
Africa,  the  descendants  of  I lain  had,  on  the  contrary, 
wide  settlements  in  Asia,  not  only  on  the  shores  of  Svr- 
ia,  the  Mediterranean,  and  in  the  Arabian  peninsula, 
but  (as  we  learn  from  linguistic  discoveries,  which  mi- 
nutely corroborate  the  letter  of  the  Mosaic  statements, 
and  refute  the  assertions  of  modern  Rationalism)  in  the 
plains  of  Mesopotamia.  One  of  the  most  prominent 
facts  alleged  in  Gen.  x is  the  foundation  of  the  earliest 
monarchy  by  the  grandson  of  Ham  in  Babylonia,  “Gush 
[the  eldest  son  of  Ham]  begat  Nimrod  , . . the  begin- 
ning of  whose  kingdom  was  Babel  [ Babylon],  and  Ereeh, 
and  Accad,  and  Caliieh,  in  the  land  of  Sliinar”  (vers.  6, 
8,  10).  Here  we  have  a primitive  Babylonian  empire 
distinctly  declared  to  have  been  Ilamitic  through  Cush. 
For  the  complete  vindication  of  this  statement  of  Gene- 
| sis  from  the  opposite  statements  of  Bunsen,  Nielmhr, 
lleeren,  and  others,  we  must  refer  the  reader  to  Raw- 
linson’s  Five  great  Monarchies,  vol.  i,  chap,  iii,  compared 
with  his  Historical  Evidences,  etc.  (Bampton  Lectures), 
p.  18,68,355-357.  The  idea  of  an  “ Asiatic  Gush ” was 
declared  bv  Bunsen  to  be  “an  imagination  of  interpret- 
ers, the  child  of  despair”  (Phil,  of  Unit'.  History,  i,  191). 
But  in  1858,  Sir  H.  Kawlinson,  having  obtained  a num- 
ber of  Babylonian  documents  more  ancient  than  any 
previously  discovered,  was  able  to  declare  authoritative- 
ly that  the  early  inhabitants  of  South  Babylonia  were 
of  a cognate  race  with  the  primitive  colonists  both  of 
Arabia  and  of  the  African  Ethiopia  (Rawlinson’s  Ilwod- 
otns,  i,  442).  lie  found  their  vocabulary  to  be  undoubt- 
edly Cushite  or  Ethiopian,  belonging  to  that  stock  of 
tongues  which  in  the  set  pi  cl  were-  everywhere  more  or 
less  mixed  up  with  the  Shemitic  languages,  but  of  which 
we  have  the  purest  modern  specimens  in  the  Mahra  of 
southern  Arabia  and  the  Galla  of  Abyssinia  (ibid.,  note 
9).  He  found,  also,  that  the  traditions  both  of  Babylon 
and  Assyria  pointed  to  a connection  in  very  early  times 
between  Ethiopia,  .Southern  Arabia,  and  the  cities  on 
the  lower  Euphrates.  We  have  here  evidence  both  of 
the  widely-spread  settlements  of  the  children  of  Ham 
in  Asia  as  w ell  as  Africa,  and  (what  is  now  especially 
valuable)  of  the  truth  of  the  10th  chapter  of  Genesis  as 
an  ethnographical  document  of  the  highest  importance. 
Some  writers  push  the  settlements  of  Ham  still  more 
towards  the  east;  FeldhofF  (Die  Yolkertaf  l dcr  Genesis, 
p.  69),  speaking  generally  of  them,  makes  them  spread, 
not  simply  to  the  south  and  south-west  of  the  plains  of 
Shinar,  but  east  and  south-east  also;  lie  accordingly  lo- 
cates some  of  the  family  of  Cush  in  the  neighborhood 
of  the  Paropamisus  chain  [the  Hindu  Kush],  which  he 
goes  so  far  as  to  call  the  centre  whence  the  Cushites 
emanated,  and  lie  peoples  the  greater  part  of  Hindustan, 
Birmah,  and  China  with  the  posterity  of  the  children  of 
Cush  (see  under  their  names  in  this  art.).  Dr.  Prichard 
(.  I nalysis  of  the  Egyptian  Mythology)  compares,  the  phi- 
losophy and  the  superstitions  of  the  ancient  Egyptians 
with  those  of  the  Hindus,  anil  finds  “so  many  phenom- 


“ These  are  the  sons  of  HAM, 

after  their  families  (tr'nS'r^V,  or  clans),  after  their  tongues  (3r::r~“), 
in  their  countries  (Cr3“iX3),  [and]  in  their  nations”  (3“" “3),  Gen.  x,  20. 


HAM. 


I 

I.  CUSH. 


II.  MIZRAIM.  HI.  PIIUT.  IV.  CANAAN. 


i \ / — n 

1.  Seba;  2.  Havilah  ; 3.  Sabtah  ; 1.  Lndim;  2.  Anamim  ; 3.  Lehabim; 

4.  Raamah ; 5.  Sabtechah ; 6.  Ni.meod.  4.  Naphtnhim ; 5.  Pathrnsim ; 

6.  Casluhim ; 7.  Caphtorim. 


1.  Sidon ; 2.  Ileth ; 3.  Jebu- 
site ; 4.  Amoritc ; 5.  Gir- 
gasite;  0.  Ilivite;  7. 
Arkite;  8.  Sinite; 

9.  Arvadite ; 10. 
Zemarite ; 11. 
Hamathite. 


Sheba;  Dedan. 


Philistim. 


36 


HAM 


IIAM 


pna  of  striking  congruity"  between  these  nations  that 
ho  is  induced  to  conclude  that  they  were  descended  from 
a common  origin.  Nor  ought  wc  here  to  omit  that  the 
Arminian  historian  Abnlfaragius  among  the  countries 
assigned  to  the  sons  of  Ham  expressly  includes  both 
Sri wiia  and  India,  by  which  he  means  such  parts  of 
Hindustan  as  lie  west  and  east  of  the  river  Indus  (Greg. 
Abnl-Pharagii,  Hist.  Dynast.  [eiL  Pocock,Oxon.  1073], 
Dyn.  i,  p.  17). 

The  sons  of  Ham  are  stated  to  have  been  “ Cush,”  and 
Mizraim,  and  l’hut,  and  Caanan”  (Gen.  x,  G;  comp.  1 
( ’hron.  i. X).  It  is  remarkable  that  a dual  form  (Miz- 
raim) should  occur  in  the  lirst  generation,  indicating  a 
country,  and  not  a person  or  a tribe,  and  we  are  there- 
fore inclined  to  suppose  that  the  gentile  noun  in  the  plu- 
ral 2 “"“il*  “2.  differing  alone  in  the  pointing  from  C^H-S'2, 
originally  stood  here,  which  would  be  quite  consistent 
with  the  plural  forms  of  the  names  of  the  Mizraite  tribes 
which  follow,  and  analogous  to  the  singular  forms  of  the 
names  of  the  Canaanite  tribes,  except  the  Sidonians, 
who  are  mentioned,  not  as  a nation,  but  under  the  name 
of  their  forefather  Sidon. 

The  name  of  Ham  alone,  of  the  three  sons  of  Noah, 
if  our  identification  be  correct,  is  known  to  have  been 
given  to  a country.  Egypt  is  recognised  as*the  “land 
of  Ham”  in  the  Bible  (Psa.  lxxviii,  51 ; cv,  23;  evi,  22), 
and  this,  though  it  does  not  prove  the. identity  of  the, 
Egyptian  name  with  that  ol  the  patriarch,  certainly  fa- 
vors it,  and  establishes  the  historical  fact  that  Egypt, 
settled  by  the  descendants  of  Ham,  was  peculiarly  his 
territory.  The  name  Mizraim  wc  believe  to  confirm 
this.  The  restriction  of  Ham  to  Egypt,  unlike  the  case, 
if  we  may  reason  inferentially,  of  his  brethren,  may  be 
accounted  for  by  the  very  early  civilization  of  this  part , 
of  the  Hamitic  territory,  while  much  of  the  rest  was 
comparatively  barbarous.  Egypt  may  also  have  been 
t lie  lirst  settlement  of  the  Hamites  whence  colonies' 
went  forth,  as  we  know  was  the  case  with  the  Philis- 
tines. See  Caimitok. 

I.  Grsu  (dosephns  Xoerroc)  “reigned  over  the  Ethi- 
opians” t African  Cushites];  .Jerome  (in  Queest.  llebr.in 
times.),  “ilitli  the  Arabian  Ethiopia , which  was  the 
parent  country,  and  the  African, \ts  colony”  [Abyssinia  = 
Cush  in  tlieYulg. and  Syr.];  but  these  gradations  (con- 
fining Cush  lirst  to  the  western  shore  of  the  lied  Sea, 
and  then  extending  the  nation  to  the  Arabian  Peninsu- 
la) require  further  extension;  modern  discoveries  tally 
with  this  most  ancient  ethnographical  record  in  placing 
Cush  on  t lie  Euphrates  and  the  Persian  Gulf.  When 
Koscnm idler  (Scholia  in  tics,  ad  loe.)  claims  Josephus 
lor  an  Asiatic  Cush  as  well  as  an  African  one,  he.  ex- 
reeds the  testimony  of  the  historian,  who  says  no  more 
I ban  that  “the  Ethiopians  of  his  day  called  themselres 
Cushites,  and  not.  only  they,  lmt  all’ the  Asiatics  also, 
•jure  them  that  name”  (.  1 «/.’i,G,  2).  Hut  Josephus  does 
not  specify  what  Ethiopians  he  means:  the  form  of  his 
statement  leads  to  the  opposite  conclusion  rather,  that 
tlie  Ethiopians  were  Africans  merely,  excluded  from  all 
the  Asiatics  | otto  iavrSiv  rt  Kai  rw v iv  ry  'Arm/  wav- 
tw],  the  iavrCov  referring  to  the  A&iotk;  just  men- 
tioned. (For  a better  interpretation  of  Josephus  here, 
see  Voinov,  Systcme  tienyr.  tits  llehrenx,  in  (Ear res,  y 
22 1.)  The  earlist  empire,  that  of  Nimrod,  was  ( ’ush’ite’, 
literally  and  properly,  not  per  ca/ach resin,  as  lleercn, 
Bunsen,  and  others  would  have  it.  Sir  W.  Jones  (On 
the  Orir/in  ami  Eauiilirs  of  Xafiwis,  in  ll'orfa,  iii,  202) 
shows  an  appreciation  of  the  wide  extent  of  the  Cn  shite 
race  in  primeval  times,  which  is  much  more  consistent 
with  the  discoveries  of  recent  times  than  the  specula-  j 
tions  of  the  neocrilieal  school  prove  to  be:  “The  chil- 
dren ol  Ham,”  he  says,  “founded  in  Iran  (the  country 
ol  the  lower  Euphrates)  the  monarchy  of  the  first  Chal- 
d;eans,  invented  letters,  etc.”  (compare  Bosennittlkr.  as  I 
above  quoted).  According  to  Volnev.  the  term  Efhio- 
jiiau,  coextensive  with  Cash,  included  even  the  llin- 
dfis;  he  seems,  however,  to  mean  the  southern  Arabians, 
who  were,  it  is  certain,  sometimes  called  Iiulians  (in  | 


[ Menoloyio  Creecn,  part  ii,  p.  197.  “ Felix  Arabia  India 

vocatur  . . . ubi  felix  voeatur  India  Arabica,  ut.  ab 
.Etbiopiea  et  Gangetiea  distinguatur,”  Assemani,  Bibl. 
Orient.  III.  ii,  5G9),  especially  the  Yemenese;  Jones,  in- 
deed, on  the  ground  of  Sanscrit  affinities  (“  Cus  or  Cush 
being  among  the  sons  of  Brahma,  i.  c.  among  the  pro- 
genitors of  the  Hindus,  and  at  the  head  of  an  ancient 
pedigree  preserved  in  the  Ramayan"),  goes  so  far  as  to 
say,  “ We  can  hardly  doubt  that  the  Cusli  of  Moses  and 
Yalmic  was  an  ancestor  of  the  Indian  race.”  Jones, 
however,  might  have  relied  too  strongly  on  the  forged 
Parana  ofWilforil  (Asiatic  Researches,  iii, 432) ; still,  it 
, is  certain  that  Oriental  tradition  largely  (though  in  its 
! usual  exaggerated  tone)  confirms  the  Mosaic  statements 
about  the  sons  of  Noah  and  their  settlements.  “ In  the 
Rozit  ul-Sufah  it  is  written  that  God  bestowed  on  Ham 
nine  sons,”  the  two  which  are  mentioned  at  the  head  of 
the  list  (Hind,  Sind,  with  which  comp.  Abtilfaragius  as 
quoted  in  one  of  our  notices  above),  expressly  connected 
the  Hindus  with  Ham,  although  not  through  Cash,  who 
occurs  as  the  sixth  among  the  Hamite  brethren.  See 
the  entire  extract  from  the  Khelussut  ul-A  Ihbar  of 
Khondennr  in  Rosenmiiller  (Bill.  Geoyr.  Append,  to  ch. 
iii,  vol.  i,  p.  109  [Bibl.  C<tb.~\).  Bohlen  (Genesis,  ad  loe.), 
who  has  a long  hut  indistinct  notice  of  Cush,  with  his 
Sanscrit  predilections,  is  for  extending  Cush  “as  far  as 
the  dark  India,”  claiming  for  his  view  the  sanction  of 
Rosenm.,  Winer,  and  Schumann.  When  Job  (xxviii, 
19)  speaks  of  “ the  topaz  of  Ethiopia ” (w'ITTJ!;), 
Bolden  finds  a Sanscrit  word  in  and  consequent- 

ly a link  between  India  and  Cus/t  (-*2,  Ethiopia).  He 
refers  to  the  Syriac,  Chakkean,  and  Saadias  versions  as 
having  India  for  Cush,  and  (after  Braun,  De  Vest.  Sa- 
cerd.  i,  1 15)  assigns  Rabbinical  authority  for  it.  Asse- 
mani,  who  is  by  Bohlen  referred  to  in  a futile  hope  of 
extracting  evidence  for  the  identification  of  Cush  and 
India  (of  the  Hindus),  has  an  admirable  dissertation  on 
the  people  of  Arabia  (Bibl.  Or.  Ill,  ii,  552  sq.) ; one  ele- 
ement  of  the  Arab  population  lie  derives  from  Cush  (see 
below).  We  thus  conclude  that  the  children  of  Ham, 
in  the  line  of  Cush,  had  very  extensive  settlements  in 
Asia,  as  far  as  the  Euphrates  and  Persian  Gulf  at  least, 
and  probably  including  the  district  of  the  Indus;  while 
in  Africa  they  both  spread  widely  in  Abyssinia,  and 
had  settlements  apparently  among  their  kinsmen,  the 
Egyptians:  this  we  feel  warranted  in  assuming  on  the 
testimony  of  the  Arabian  geographers ; c.  g.  Abulfeda 
(in  his  section  on  Egypt,  tables,  p.  110  in  the  original,  p. 
151  trails,  by  Reinaud)  mentions  a Cush,  or  rather  Kus, 
as  the  most  important  city  in  Egypt  after  the  capital 
Fosthalit : its  port  on  the  Red  Sea  was  Cossevr,  and  it 
was  a place  of  great  resort  by  the  Mohammedans  of  the 
west  on  pilgrimage.  “ The  sons  of  Cush,  where  they 
once  got  possession,  were  never  totally  ejected.  If  they 
were  at  any  time  driven  away,  they  returned  after  a 
time  anil  recovered  their  ground,  for  which  reason  I 
make  no  doubt  hut  many  of  them  in  process  of  time  re- 
turned to  Chaldiea,  and  mixed  with  those  of  their  fam- 
ily who  resided  there.  Hence  arose  the  tradition  that 
the  Babylonians  not  only  conquered  Egypt,  hut  that  the 
learning  of  the  Egyptians  came  originally  from  Chal- 
ihva;  and  the  like  account  from  the  Egyptians,  that 
people  from  their  country  had  conquered  Babylon,  and 
that  the  wisdom  of  the  Chaldeans  was  derived  from 
them”  (Brvant,  On  Ancient  Egypt,  in  IPorihs,  vj,  250). 
See  Ci’su. 

l.AVia  (Josephus  iUdfiac)  is  “universally  admitted 
by  critics  to  he  the  ancient  name  for  the  Egyptian  [Nu- 
bian] M eroe”  (Bohlen).  This  is  too  large  a statement ; 
Bochart  denies  that  it  could  he  Meroe,  on  the  assump- 
tion that  this  city  did  not  exist  before  Cambvses,  rely- 
ing on  the  statement  of  Diodorus  and  Lucius  Ampelius. 
Josephus  (.  I ut.  ii,  10),  however,  more  accoratelv  savs 
that  Saha  “was  a royal  city  of  Ethiopia  [Nubia]’  which 
t ambyses  afterwards  named  J [eroe,  after  the  name  of 
his  sister.”  Boeliart  would  have  Seba  to  be  Saba-Ma- 


HAM 


37 


HAM 


rob  in  Arabia,  confounding  our  Seba  (X20)  with  Sheba 
(XS'lJ).  Meroe,  with  the  district  around  it,  was  no 
doubt  settled  by  our  Seba.  (See  Gesen.  s.  v.,  who  quotes 
Burckhardt,  Riippell,  and  Iloskins;  so  Corn,  a Lap.,  Ro- 
senm.,  and  Kalisch;  Patrick  agrees  with  Bocliart;  Voi- 
nov [who  differs  from  IJocbart  J yet  identities  Seba  with 
the  modern  Arabian  Sabbea  ,*  Ileeren  throws  his  au- 
thority into  the  scale  for  the  Ethiopian  Meroe ; so  Kno- 
bel.)  It  supports  this  opinion  that  Seba  is  mentioned 
in  conjunction  with  the  other  Nile  lands  (Ethiopia  and 
Egypt)  in  Isa.  xliii,  3,  and  xlv,  11.  (The  Sheba  of 
Arabia,  and  our  Ethiopian  Seba,  as  representing  oppo- 
site shores  of  the  Bed  Sea,  are  contrasted  in  Psa.  lxxii, 
10.)  See  Feldlioff  (1  ’Olkertafel,  p.  71),  who,  however, 
discovers  many  Sebas  both  in  Africa  (even  to  the  south- 
west coast  of  that  continent)  and  in  Asia  (on  the  Per- 
sian Gulf),  a circumstance  from  which  he  derives  the 
idea  that,  in  this  grandson  of  their  patriarch,  the  Ilam- 
ites  displayed  the  energy  of  their  race  by  widely-ex- 
tended settlements.  Sec  Seba. 

2.  Ilai'ilah  (Josephus  E/uXcrg),  not  to  be  confounded 
(as  he  is  by  Rosenm.,  and  apparently  by  Patrick,  after 
Bocliart)  with  the  son  of  Joktan,  who  is  mentioned  in 
ver.  29.  Joseph,  and  Jerome,  as  quoted  by  Corn,  a Lap., 
were  not  far  wrong  in  making  the  Geetuliuns  (the  peo- 
ple in  the  central  part  of  North  Africa,  between  the  mod- 
ern Niger  and  the  Bed  Sea)  to  be  descended  from  the 
Cushite  Ilavilah.  Kiepert  ( Bibel-A  tlas,  fol.  I)  rightly 
puts  our  Ilavilah  in  East  Abyssinia,  by  the  Straits  of 
Bub  el-Maneleb.  Gesen.,  who  takes  this  view,  refers  to 
Pliny,  vi,  28,  and  Ptolemy,  iv,  7,  for  the  A ralitee,  now 
Zeilah,  and  adds  that  Saadias  repeatedly  renders  tip'1"!! 
by  Zeilah.  Bohlen  at  first  identifies  the  two  Havilalis, 
but  afterwards  so  far  corrects  himself  as  to  admit,  very 
properly,  that  there  was  probably  on  the  west  coast  of 
the  Red  Sea  a Ilavilah  as  well  as  on  the  east  of  it— 
“just  in  the  same  way  as  there  was  one  Seba  on  the 
coast  of  Arabia,  and  another  opposite  to  it  in  Ethiopia.” 
There  is  no  such  difficulty  as  Kaliseli  (Genesis,  Pref.  p. 
93)  supposes  in  believing  that  occasionally  kindred  peo- 
ple should  have  like  names.  It  is  not  more  incredible 
that  there  should  be  a Havilah  both  in  the  family  of 
Ham  and  in  that  of  Shem  (Gen.  x,  ver.  7,  comp,  with 
ver.  29)  than  that  there  were  Enochs  and  Lameclis 
among  the  posterities  of  both  Cain  and  Seth  (compare 
Gen.  iv,  17,  18,  with  ver.  18,  25).  Kalisch’s  cumbrous 
theory  of  a vast  extent  of  country  from  the  Persian 
Gulf  running  to  the  south-west  and  crossing  the  Red 
Sea,  of  the  general  name  of  Ilavilah  (possessed  at  one 
end  by  the  son  of  Joktan,  and  at  the  other  by  the  son 
of  Cush),  removes  no  difficulty,  and,  indeed,  is  lumeces- 
sarv.  There  is  no  “ apparent  discrepancy”  (of  which  he 
speaks,  p.249)  in  the  Mosaic  statement  of  two  Havilahs 
of  distinct  races,  nor  any  violation  of  consistency  when 
fairly  judged  by  the  nature  of  the  case.  Michaelis  and 
Feldhoff  strangely  flounder  about  in  their  opposite  con- 
jectures : the  former  supposes  our  Ilavilah  to  be  the  land 
of  the  Chvalisci,  on  the  Caspian,  the  latter  places  it  in 
China  Proper,  about  Pekin  (!).  See  Havilah. 

3.  Sabtah  (Joseph.  2a/3«0a,E«/3u0ag)  is  by  Josephus, 
with  great  probability,  located  immediately  north  of  the 
preceding,  in  the  district  east  of  Meroe,  between  the  As- 
tabaras  (Tacazze),  a tributary  of  the  Nile,  and  the  Red 
Sea,  the  countn'  of  the  Astubari,  as  the  Greeks  called 
them  (Sa/3a37/voi  ovopd^ovrai  Si  ’Aordfiapot  ■Trap 

EXXrjoiv,  Ant.  i,  6,  2).  Kalisch  quite  agrees  in  this 
opinion,  and  Gesenius  substantially,  when  he  places  Sab- 
tah on  the  south-west  coast  of  the  Red  Sea,  where  was 
the  Ethiopian  city  2cr/3dr.  (See  Strabo,  xvi,  p.  770 
fed.  Casaub.],  and  Ptolemy,  iv,  10.)  Rosenm.,  Bohlen, 
and  Knobel,  with  less  propriety,  place  it  in  Arabia,  with 
whom  agree  Delitseh  and  Keil,  while  Feldhoff,  with  his 
usual  extravagance,  identifies  it  with  Thibet.  See  Sab- 
tah. 

4.  Raamah  (Josephus  'Ptypa,  'P iypoc)  and  his  two 
sons  Sheba  (£«/3ag)  and  Dedan  (louodcoc)  are  separ- 


ated by  Josephus  and  Jerome,  who  place  the  last-men- 
tioned m West  ^Ethiopia  (AiSioirucuv  Czrvog  tu>v 
piiov,  which  Jerome  translates  Gens  yEthiopue  in  acci- 
dent ali playa).  Ezekiel,  however,  in  xxvii,  20,  22,  men- 
tions these  three  names  together  in  connection  with 
A rabia.  According  to  Niebuhr,  who,  in  his  map  of  Ye- 
men, has  a province  called  Subic,  and  the  town  of  Sab- 
bea  (in  long.  43°  30',  lat.  18°),  the  country  south  of  Su- 
bic abounds  with  traces  of  the  name  and  family  of  Cu.-.h. 
Without  doubt,  we  have  here  veritable  Cushite  settlers 
in  Arabia  (Assemani,  Bill.  Oriental.  Ill,  ii,  554).  All 
the  commentators  whom  we  have  named  (with  the  ex- 
ception of  Feldhoff)  agree  in  the  Arabian  locality  of 
these  grandsons  and  son  of  Cush.  A belt  of  country 
stretching  from  the  Red  Sea,  opposite  the  Ethiopian 
Havilah,  to  the  south  of  the  Persian  Gulf,  across  Arabia, 
comprises  the  settlements  of  Raamah  and  his  two  sons. 
The  city  called  'Piypa,  or  *P pypa,  by  Ptolemy  (vi,  7), 
within  this  tract,  closely  resembles  Ilaamah,  as  it  is 
written  in  the  original  (ll^>  ^) ; so  does  the  island  La- 
den, in  the  Persian  Gulf,  resemble  the  name  of  one  of 
the  sons,  Dedan.  See  Dedan. 

5 .  Sabtechah  (Joseph.  ^a/3eiKa6ei,  HafiaKuOac)  is  by 
Kalisch  thought  to  have  settled  in  Ethiopia,  and  the 
form  of  the  word  favors  the  opinion,  the  other  com- 
pounds of  Sab  being  apparently  ofEtliiopic  or  Cushite 
origin.  “ Its  obvious  resemblance  to  the  Ethiopian 
name  Subatok,  discovered  on  Egyptian  monuments 
(comp,  the  king  in  2 Kings  xvii,  4,  and  the  Stbe- 
c has  of  Manetho),  renders  its  position  in  Arabia,  or  at 
the  Persian  Gulf,  improbable;  but  Samyclace,  in  Gedro- 
sia  (as  Bocliart  supposes),  or  Tabochosta,  in  Persia  (as 
Bohlen  suggests),  or  Satakos,  are  out  of  the  question. 
The  Targuin  of  Jonathan  renders  it  here  “XMT  (Zinyi), 
which  is  the  Arabic  name  for  the  African  district  Zan- 
yuebar,  and  which  is  not  inappropriate  here”  (Kalisch). 
See  Sabtechah. 

G.  Nimrod  (Joseph.  Nf/3pw£?jg),  the  mighty  founder 
of  the  earliest  imperial  power,  is  the  grandest  name,  not, 
only  among  the  children  of  Ham,  but  in  primaeval  his- 
tory. He  seems  to  have  been  deified  under  the  title  of 
Bilu-Nipru,  or  Bel-Nimrod,  which  may  be  translated 
“ the  god  of  the  chase,”  or  “ the  great  hunter.”  (The 
Greek  forms  Nf/3pwo  and  Nf/SpwO  serve  to  connect  Ni- 
pru  with  “H’CL  The  native  root  is  thought  to  be  na- 
par,  “ to  pursue,”  or  “ cause  to  flee,”  Rawlinson,  p.  19G.) 
lie  is  noticed  here  in  his  place,  in  passing,  because 
around  his  name  and  exploits  has  gathered  a mass  of 
Eastern  tradition  from  all  sources,  which  entirely  corrob- 
orates the  statement  of  Moses,  that  the  primitive  em- 
pire of  the  Chaldjeans  was  Cushite,  and  that  its  people 
were  closely  connected  with  Egypt,  and  Canaan,  and 
Ethiopia.  Rawlinson  ( Five  Great  Mon.,  chap,  iii)  has 
collected  much  of  this  tradition,  and  shown  that  the 
hints  of  Herodotus  as  to  the  existence  of  an  Asiatic 
Ethiopia  as  well  as  an  African  one  (iii,  94;  vii,  70), 
and  that  the  traditional  belief  which  Moses  of  Chorene, 
the  Armenian  historian,  has,  for  instance,  that  Nimrod 
■is  in  fact  Belus,  and  grandson  of  Cush  by  Mizraim  (a 
statement  substantially  agreeing  with  that  of  the  Bi- 
ble), have  been  too  strongly  confirmed  by  all  recent  re- 
searches (among  the  emieiform  inscriptions)  in  compar- 
ative philology  to  be  set  aside  by  criticism  based  on  the 
mere  conjectures  of  ingenious  men.  It  would  appear 
that  Nimrod  not  only  built  cities,  and  conquered  exten- 
sive territories,  “ subduing  or  expelling  the  various  tribes 
by  which  the  countn'  was  previously  occupied”  (Raw- 
linson, p.  195;  comp.  Gen.  x,  10-12  [marginal  version]), 
but  established  a dynasty  of  some  eleven  or  twelve  rnon- 
archs.  By-and-bv  (about  1500  B.C. ; see  Rawlinson,  p. 
223)  the  ancient  Chaldaeans,  the  stock  of  Cush  and  peo- 
ple of  Nimrod,  sank  into  obscurity,  crushed  by  a foreign 
Shemitic  stock,  destined  after  some  seven  or  eight  cen- 
turies of  submission  to  revive  to  a second  tenure  of  im- 
perial power,  which  culminated  in  grandeur  under  the 
magnificent  Nebuchadnezzar.  See  Noikod. 


38 


HAM 


HAM 

IF.  Mizraim  (Joseph.  Miopaiv,  Mearpatpoc),  that  is, 
the  father  of  Egypt,  is  the  second  son  of  Cush.  Of  this 
dual  form  of  a man’s  name  we  have  other  instances  in 
Ephraim  and  Skuharaim  (l  Chron.  viii,  8).  W e sim- 
ply call  the  reader's  attention  to  the  fact,  vouched  for  in 
this  genealogy  of  the  llamites,  of  the  nearness  of  kindred 
UhrZn  Ximrud  and  Mizraim.  This  point  is  of  great 
value  in  tlie  studv  of  ancient  Eastern  history,  and  will 
reconcile  inanv  difficulties  which  would  otherwise  be 
insoluble.  ••  For  the  last  3000  years  it  is  to  the  Shenn- 
tic  and  Indo-European  races  that  the  world  has  been 
mainly  indebted  for  its  advancement ; but  it  was  other- 
wise in  the  tirst.  ages.  Egypt  and  Babylon,  Mizraim 
and  Nimrod, both  descendants  of  11am,  led  the  way  and 
acted  as  the  pioneers  of  mankind  in  the  various  untrod- 
den fields  of  art,  literature,  and  science.  Alphabetic 
writing,  astronomy,  history,  chronology,  architecture, 
plastic"' art,  sculpture,  navigation,  agriculture,  and  tex- 
tile industry,  seem,  all  of  them,  to  have  had  their  origin 
in  one  or  other  of  these  two  countries”  (Eawlinson,p.  / 5). 

If.  as  some  suppose,  Mizraim  in  the  lists  of  Gen.  x, 
and  1 t’hron.  i,  stands  for  Mizrim,  we  should  take  the 
singular  Mazor  to  be  the  name  of  the  progenitor  of  the 
Egyptian  tril>es.  It  is  remarkable  that  Mazor  appears 
to  be  identical  in  signification  witli  Ham,  so  that  it  may 
be  bill  another  name  of  the  patriarch.  See  Egypt.  In 
this  case  the  mention  of  Mizraim  (or  Mizrim)  would  be 
geographical,  and  not  indicative  of  a Mazor,  son  of  Ham. 

The  Mizraites,  like  the  descendants  of  11am,  occupy 
a territory  wider  than  that  bearing  the  name  of  Miz- 
raim. We  may,  however,  suppose  that  Mizraim  in- 
cluded all  the  first  settlements,  and  that  in  remote  times 
other  tribes  besides  the  Philistines  migrated,  or  extend- 
ed their  territories.  This  we  may  infer  to  have  been 
the  case  with  the  Lehabim  (Eubira)  or  Libyans,  for 
Manetho  speaks  of  them  as  in  the  remotest  period  of 
Egyptian  history  subject  to  the  Pharaohs.  lie  tells  us 
that  under  the  first  king  of  the  third  dynasty,  of  Mem- 
phites. Nccherophcs,  or  Necherochis,  “ the  Libyans  re- 
volted from  the  Egyptians,  but,  oil  account  of  a wonder- 
ful increase  of  the  moon,  submitted  through  fear”  (Cory’s 
A Frity.  2d  edit.  p.  100,  ]t)I).  It  is  unlikely  that  at 
this  very  early  time  the  Memphite  kingdom  ruled  far, 
if  at  all.  beyond  the  western  boundary  of  Egypt.  See 
M txi:  aim. 

/.mid  if  /him. — By  this  and  similar  poetic  terms  the 
Psalmist  designates  Egypt  in  l'sa.  cv,  23  (“Jacob  so- 
journed in  the  land  of  Hum"  EH  j”pX2,  here  parallel 
and  synonymous  with  27^^“,  with  which  compare  ver. 
27,  and  evi,  22,23),  and  in  Psa.  lxxviii,  51  (where  “ the 
tain  mi  tries  of  Hum,"  crr"'5nx,  is  again  parallel  with 
2"”‘1£2 ).  wiiat  in  these  passages  is  the  poetical  name 
of  Egypt  in  Hebrew,  was  among  the  Egyptians  them- 
selves probably  the  domestic  and  usual  designation  of 
their  country  (Gescnius).  According  to  Gcsenius,  this 
name  of  Hum  (“  t optic  t View/,”  for  which  Eepsius,  how- 
ever, substitutes  another  word,  Hem  [ Mempli.]  or  //hem 
(Thebaic])  is  derived  from  the  swarthy  complexion  of 
the  people  (what  Gescnius  calls  ('optic  Eepsius  desig- 
nates l»\  the  now  more  usual  term  Memphitic:  Gcsenius 
adds  the  Sahidic  l Ecpsius’s  Thebuir  ] form  of  “our  word 
Ft  me  | from  kern,  black];  but  Eepsius  denies  that  the 
name  of  Egypt,  Ham  [2n  |,has  “ any  direct  connection” 
with  this  word,  ho  siiltstitutcs  the  root  hem,  or  hem 
( Memphitic],  which  is  softened  into  hh'em,  or  hhem,  in 
the  sister  dialect  ofThcbes;  the  meaning  of  which  is  to 
In  hot  [ Tattnm,  Lex. . Egypt.  Eat.  p.  <171  ].  ( 'hemi, 

however,  and  Klum,  are,  no  doubt,  the  constantly  used 
terms  for  the  name  of  the  country  [see  Tattam,  p.  155 
5i;ii,  and  Thiemann,  Copt.  Hr.  ,i  Lex.  p.  154]),  while 
Eepsius  says,  “not  from  the  color  of  its  inhabitants, 
which  was  red,  hut  from  that  of  its  soil,  which  formed  a 
strong  contrast  with  the  adjacent  countries.”  ((W,p. 
Herodotus’s  ytXdyyaiov,  ii,  12,  and  Plutarch’s  Aiyvjr- 
tov  iy  rule  yoXiiTTa  ptXnyytiov  ovaav  . . . Xi/pia 
KaXovoi , D«  Isid.  et  Osir.  [Keiskej  vii,437.)  In  the  hie- 


roglyphic language  the  name  occurs  as  KM.  The  in- 
scription of  it,  as  it  frequently  occurs  on  the  Rosetta 
stone,  is  pronounced  by  Champollion,  Akerblad,  and 
■Spohn,  Chme  (Gesen.  Thes.  p.  489).  The  name  by  which 
Egypt  is  commonly  called  in  Hebretv,  C'rijj’E  (*‘1U’2 
should  probably  be  translated  Egypt  in  2 Kings  xix,24; 
Isa.  xix,  0;  xxxvii,  25;  and  Micah  vii,  12;  Gesen.  and 
Fiirst,  s.  v.),  was  not  used  by  the  Egyptians  (Biihr,  He- 
rodot.  note,  ad  1.  c.),  lmt  by  Asiatics  it  appears  to  have 
been  much  used  of  the  land  of  the  Nile,  as  is  evident 
from  the  cuneiform  inscriptions.  The  Median  form  of 
the  name  was  M it  zariga ; the  Babylonian,  Mizir ; the 
Assyrian,  Muzri.  The  Arabic  name  of  the  present  cap- 
ital of  Egypt  is  El  Mazr,  and  the  country  also  is  Misr 
(Sir  II.  Kawlinson,  Jour.  Jl.As.  Soc.  voL  xiv,  pt.  i,  p.  18 ; 
Lepsius,  in  Herzog,  s.  v.  Egypt).  Josephus  (Ant.  i,  6, 
2)  renders  the  Hebrew  name  of  Egypt  by  XI  tar  pi],  and 
of  the  people  by  INI  t arpcuoi.  Whether,  however,  we  re- 
gard the  native  name  from  the  father,  or  the  Asiatic 
from  the  son,  they  both  vouch  for  the  Jlamitic  character 
of  Egypt,  which  probably  differed  from  all  the  other  set- 
tlements of  this  race  in  having  Ilam  himself  as  the  act- 
ual ctpxTiybg  of  the  nation,  among  whom  also  he  per- 
haps lived  and  died.  This  circumstance  would  afford 
sufficient  reason  both  why  the  nation  itself  should  re- 
gard the  father  as  their  ’epom/mus  rather  than  the  son, 
who  only  succeeded  him  in  the  work  of  settlement,  and 
why,  moreover,  foreigners  with  no  other  interest  than 
simply  to  distinguish  one  Hamitic  colony  from  another 
shoidd  have  preferred  for  that  purpose  the  name  of  the 
son,  which  would  both  designate  tins  particular  nation, 
and  at  the  same  time  distinguish  it  from  such  as  were 
kindred  to  it. 

On  the  sons  of  Mizraim  tve  must  he  brief,  Josephus 
noticed  the  different  fortune  which  had  attended  the 
names  of  the  sons  from  that  of  the  grandsons  of  Ham,  es- 
pecially in  the  family  of  Mizraim ; for  while  “ time  had 
not  hurt”  the  former,  of  the  latter  he  says  (Ant.  i,  6, 2), 
“ we  know  nothing  but  their  names."  Jerome  (who  in 
these  points  mostly  gives  us  only  the  echo  of  Josephus) 
says  similarly : “ C’retera;  sex  gentes  ignotte  sunt  nobis 
. . . quia  usque  ad  oblivioncm  pneteritorum  nominum 
pervenere.”  They  both,  indeed,  except  two  names  from 
the  obscurity  which  had  oppressed  the  other  six,  Lubim 
and  Philistim,  and  give  them  “a  local  habitation  with 
their  name.”  What  this  is  we  shall  notice  soon ; mean- 
while we  briefly  state  such  identifications  of  the  others 
as  have  occurred  to  commentators.  Josephus,  it  will  lie 
observed,  renders  all  these  plural  Hebrew  names  by  sin- 
gular forms.  These  plurals  seem  to  indicate  clans  speak- 
ing their  oirn  languages  (comp.  ver.  20,  which  surmounts 
our  table),  centered  around  their  patriarch,  from  whom, 
of  course,  they  derived  their  gentile  name : thus,  Lvdim 
from  Lud:  Pathrusim  from  Pathros,  etc.  (Feldhoff,  p. 
94).  Lenormant  notices  the  fact  of  so  many  nations 
emerging  from  Egypt,  and  spreading  over  Africa  (L'Asie 
Occidcntale,  p.  244  ),for  he  understands  these  names  to  be 
of  peoples,  not  individuals ; so  Michaelis,  Spicileg.  p.  254, 
who  quotes  Aben-Ezra  lor  the  same  opinion.  Aben- 
Ezra,  however,  does  not  herein  represent  the  general 
opinion  of  the  Jewish  doctors.  The  relative  . . . 

7-S  misled  him;  he  thought  it  necessarily  implied  lo- 
cality, and  not  a personal  antecedent.  Mendelssohn  de- 
clares him  wrong  in  this  view,  and  refers  to  Gen.  xlix, 
24.  “ It  is  probable,”  he  adds,  “ that  Ludim  and  the  oth- 
er names  were  those  of  men,  who  gave  their  names  to 
their  descendants.  Such  was  the  opinion  of  Rashi,  etc.,” 
who  takes  the  same  view  as  the  old  Jewish  historian. 

1.  Ludim  (Josephus  A ovdieipog)  is  not  to  he  con- 
founded with  Shem’s  son  Lud  (ver.  22),  the  progenitor 
ol  the  Lydians.  The  Ludim  are  often  mentioned  in 
Scripture  (Isa.  lxvi,  19;  Jer.  xlvi.  9;  Ezek.  xxvii,  10; 
xxx,  5)  as  a warlike  nation,  skilled  in  the  use  of  spear 
and  bow,  and  seem  to  have  been  employed  (much  as  the 
Swiss  have  been)  as  mercenary  troops  (Gesen.  Jc-saias, 
iii,  31 1).  Bochart  (who  placed  Cusli  in  Arabia)  reserved 


HAM 


39 


HAM 


Ethiopia  for  these  Ludim  ; one  of  his  reasons  being  based 
on  their  use  of  the  bow,  as  he  learns  of  Herodotus,  Stra- 
bo, lleliodorus,  and  Diodorus  Siculus.  Hut  the  people 
of  North  Africa  were  equally  dexterous  with  this  imple- 
ment of  war ; we  have  therefore  no  difficulty  in  connect- 
ing the  Ludim  with  the  country  tlirough  which  the 
river  Lud  or  Laud  ran  (Fliny,  v,  2),  in  tire  province  of 
Tinyitunia  (Tangier) ; so  Bolden,  Delitzsch,  and  Feld- 
hoff,  which  last  writer  finds  other  names  of  cognate  or- 
igin in  North  Africa,  e.  g.  the  tribe  called  Luduyu,  in- 
habiting one  of  the  oases,  and  the  district  of  Ludamar, 
in  Nigritia.  Kalisch  suggests  the  Egyptian  Letojmlis  or 
Let  us,  and  Clarke  the  Mareotis  of  Egypt ; while  Keil 
supposes  the  Berber  tribe  Leiratuh;  and  Lenormant 
(L'A  sie  OccuL  p.  244)  the  Nubians ; they  think  a prox- 
imity to  Egypt  would  be  most  compatible  with  the  fact 
that  the  Ludim  were  Egyptian  auxiliaries  (Jer.  xlvi,  9). 
See  Ludim. 

2.  A mamim  (Josephus  ’Evtvipoo)  arc,  with  unusual 
unanimity,  placed  by  the  commentators  in  Egypt.  Cal- 
mct  represents  the  older  opinion,,  quoting  Jonathan's 
Targ.  for  the  Mareotis.  Knobcl  (with  whom  agree  De- 
litzsch, Keil,  and  Feldlioff)  places  them  in  the  Delta,  the 
Sept,  rendering  ’EvtptTitip  suggesting  to  him  Sanemhit , 
the  Egyptian  word  for  north  country.  The  word  occurs 
nowhere  else  in  the  Old  Testament.  See  Amamim. 

8.  Lehabim  (Josephus  Aafiitip,  Aaflipog)  is,  with  ab- 
solute unanimity,  including  even  Jerome  and  Josephus 
(who  says,  A.  tov  kaToucijoavToc  tv  AiSvi)  icai  ti)v 
v tap’  aiiToii  tcaXtoavTOt;'),  identified  with  the 
shorter  word  E'Slb,  Lubim,  in  2 Chron.  xii,  3;  xvi,  8; 
and  again  in  Nahum  iii,  9;  Dan.  xi,  43.  They  are  there 
the  Libyans;  Bochart  limits  the  word  to  the  Liby-ayyp- 
tii,  on  the  west  frontier  of  Egypt ; so  Knobel.  The  He- 
brew word  has  been  connected  (by  Bochart)  with 
and  the  plur.  of  which  means  flame;  It  ash  i sup- 
posing that  they  are  so  called  “because  their  faces  were 
inflamed  with  the  son's  heat”  (Isa.  xiii,  8),  from  their 
residence  so  near  the  torrid  zone.  Hitzig’s  idea  that 
the  Lehabim  may  be  Nubians  is  also  held  by  Lenor- 
mant (L'A  sie  Oeeid.  p.  244).  The  opinion  of  the  latter 
is  based  upon  the  general  principle  entertained  by  him, 
that,  as  Cush  peopled  Ethiopia , and  Phut  Libya,  and 
Canaan  Phoenicia,  so  to  Mizraim  must  be  appropriated 
Egypt,  or  (at  least)  the  vicinity  of  that  country.  There 
is  some  force  in  this  view,  although  the  application  of 
it  in  the  case  of  Lehabim  need  not  confine  his  choice  to 
Nubia.  Libya,  with  which  the  name  is  associated  by 
most  writers  since  Josephus,  is  contiguous  to  Egypt,  on 
its  western  frontier,  and  would  answer  the  conditions  as 
well  as  Nubia.  See  Leiiabim. 

4.  Naphtuhim  (Josephus  XHtpoc),  according  to  Bo- 

chart and  Rosenm idler,  should  be  identified  with  Neph- 
tys,  in  the  north  of  Egypt ; Bohlcn  suggests  the  Xobatce, 
in  Libya;  Com.  a Lap.  the  Xumidians ; Patrick  (after 
Grotius)  Xepata,  in  Ethiopia;  but  none  of  these  opin- 
ions appear  to  us  so  probable  as  that  of  Knobel,  who 
thus  vindicates  for  the  Memphitic,  or  Middle  Egyptians, 
the  claim  to  be  the  Naphtuhim.  Memphis  was  the 
chief  seat  of  the  worship  of  Phthah,  an  Egyptian  deity. 
If  the  plural  possessive  particle  tov  (Uldemann, 

sec.  14,  1)  be  prefixed,  we  get  the  word  na-Ptahh,  the 
people  of  Phthah,  oi  tov  4>0ar,  just  as  the  Moabites  are 
designated  the  people  of  Ckemosh  (Numb,  xxi,  29;  Jer. 
xlviii,  46),  and  the  Hebrews  the  people  of  Jehovah  (Ezek. 
xxxvi,  20).  See  Naphtuhim. 

5.  Pathrusim  (Josephus  tbsSpioaipoc)  are  undoubtedly' 
the  people  of  Upper  Eyypt,  or  the  Thebaid,  of  which 
the  capital,  Thebes,  is  mentioned,  under  the  name  of  No 
and  JVb-A  mon,  in  Nahum  iii,  8;  Ezek.  xxx,  14-16;  and 
Jer.  xlvi,  25.  Pathros  is  an  Egyptian  name,  signifying 
the  South  country  {pet-res),  which  may  possibly  include 
Nubia  also;  in  Isa.  xi,  11,  and  probably  Jer.  xliv,  15, 
Pathros  is  mentioned  as  distinct  from,  though  in  close 
connection  with,  Egypt.  By  Greek  and  Roman  writ- 
ers the  Thebaid  is  called  Nonius  Phuturites  (Pliny',  Hist,  i 


Nat.  v,  9 ; Ptoh  iv,  5,  09).  So  Bochart,  Bohlcn,  De- 
litzsch, Kalisch,  Keil,  Knobcl.  Brngsch’s  suggestion 
that  our  word  comes  from  Pa-Ifatkor,  that  is,  the  Nome 
of  Ilathor , an  Egyptian  deity  of  the  nether  world,  is 
an  improbable  one.  See  Pathrusim. 

6.  Casluhim  (Josephus  XtoXoXpod).  In  addition  to 
what  is  said  under  the  article  Casluhim,  it.  may  be  ob- 
served that  the  Coptic  (Basmuric)  name  of  the  district 
called  Casiot is,  which  Rosenm idler  writes  Chadsaieloihe , 
is  compounded  of  ges,  a “ mount,”  and  lokh,  “ to  burn,” 
and  well  indicates  a rugged  and  arid  country,  out  of 
which  a colony  may  be  supposed  to  have  emigrated  to 
a land  called  so  nearly  after  their  own  home.  (Comp. 
nibp3,  and  Cheslokh,  and  KoXy/c,  with  the  metathesis 
which  Gesenius  suggests.)  This  proximity  to  south- 
west Palestine  of  their  original  abode  also  exactly  cor- 
responds to  the  relation  between  these  Casluhim  and 
the  next  mentioned  people,  expressed  in  the  parenthet- 
ical clause,  “ Out  of  whom  came  Philistim”  (Gen.  x, 
14)  ; i.  e.  the  Philistines  were  a colony  of  the  Casluhim, 
probably  drafted  off  into  the  neighboring  province  in 
consequence  of  the  poverty  of  their  parental  home,  the 
veryr  cause  which  we  may7  suppose  impelled  some  of  the 
Casluhim  themselves  to  seek  a more  favorable  settle- 
ment on  the  south-east  shore  of  the  Black  Sea,  in  Col- 
chis. 

Philistim  (Josephus  $>v\kttiv6(;),  who,  according  to 
Josephus,  suggested  to  the  Greeks  the  name  of  Pales- 
tine. We  here  advert  to  the  various  readings  of  the 
Hebrew  text  suggested  by  Micliaelis  (Spiciley.  p.  278), 
who,  after  Rashi  and  Masius,  would  transpose  the  sen- 
tence thus:  S|3S3^  53TX1  CSTSl 

that  is,  “And  Casluhim,  and  Capthorim  (out  of  whom 
came  Philistim”).  This  transposition  makes  Caphtorim 
the  origin  of  the  Philistines,  according  to  Amos  ix,  7, 
and  perhaps  Dent,  ii,  23;  Jer.  xlvii,  4.  Rosenmiiller, 
Gesenius,  and  Bohlen  assent  to  this  change,  but  there  is 
no  authority  for  it  either  in  MSS.,  Targums,  or  Ver- 
sions; and  another  rendering  of  the  passage,  “Out  of 
whom  came  Philistim  and  Caphtorim,”  is  equally'  with- 
out foundation.  In  the  Hebrew  text,  as  well  as  the 
Targums  and  the  Sept.,  Philistim  alone  appears  as  a sub- 
ject, all  the  other  proper  names  (including  the  last, 
Caphtorim)  have  the  objective  sign  TN,  SV>,  and  tovq. 
This  is  decisive.  See  Philistines. 

7.  Capthorim  (.Josephus  XttpSopipoe  by  Onkelos  is 
rendered  ‘’XjsasiSp,  “ Cappadocians in  the  Pcshito 
also  “ Cappadocians."  So  the  other  Targums,  and  (ac- 
cording to  Calmet)  “ vetercs  omnes  ac  recentiores  stant 
pro  Cappadocibus.”  See  Caphthor.  In  support  of  the 
opinion  advanced  concerning  the  Caphtliorim  in  this 
article,  it  may  be  observed  that  in  the  Mishna  ( Cethu - 
both  [Surcnh.],  iii,  103),  the  very'  word  of  the  Targum, 
SF’p-ISp,  Cappadocia,  repeatedly'  occurs;  and  (what 
escaped  the  notice  of  Bochart)  Maimonides,  an  excellent 
authority  in  Egyptian  topography,  and  Bartenora,  both 
in  their  notes  explain  this  Caphutkaja  to  be  Caplitor, 
and  identify  it  with  Damietta,  in  the  north  of  Egypt,  in 
the  immediate  vicinity' of  that  Casiotis  where  we  placed 
the  primitive  Casluhim.  It  may'  be  added,  as  some 
support  to  our  own  opinion, .that  Benjamin  of  Tudela 
says  (Asher,  p.  158;  ed.  Bohn,  p.  121,  123),  “Damietta 
is  Caplitor  in  Scripture.” 

III.  Piiut  (Josephus  <i>ot»r?/c),  the  third  son  of  Ham, 
is  thus  noticed  by  Josephus  (Ant.  i,  6,  2) : “Phut  was 
the  founder  of  Libya ; he  called  the  inhabitants  Phut- 
ites,  after  himself;  there  is  a river  in  the  country'  of  the 
Moors  which  hears  that  name;  whence  it  is  that  we 
may  see  the  greatest  part  of  the  Grecian  historiograph- 
ers mention  that  river  and  the  adjoining  country  hyr  the 
appellation  of  Phut ; but  its  present  name  has  been  given 
it  from  one  of  the  sons  of  Mizraim,  who  was  called  Liby's 
[the  progenitor  of  the  Lehabim]."  Jerome  of  course 
adopts  this  view,  which  has  also  been  endorsed  by'  Bo- 
I chart,  Micliaelis,  Bosenmiiller,  Gesenius,  Bohlen,  De- 


IIAM 


40 


1 1 AM 


litzsch,  Kcil,  and  Kaliscb.  The  versions  corroborate  it 
also,  for  in  Jer.  xlri,  9 [Sept.  xxvi>  H -:*3  (Phut)  is 
rendered  “Libyans”  in  the  A.Y.,  Libyes  in  the  Vulg., 
and  Mflvttj  in  the  Sept.  Similarly  tlie  12*3  of  Ezek. 
xx.\.  o,  is  “ Libya”  in  the  A.V.,  Libyes  in  tlie  Vulg.,  and 
A in  the  Sept,  (so  xxxviii,  5).  Like  some  ot  their 
kindred  races,  the  children  of  Phut  are  celebrated  in  the 
Scriptures  “as  a warlike,' well-armed  tribe,  sought  as 
allies,  and  dreaded  as  enemies”  (lvnlisch).  Phut  means 
a bow ; ami  the  nation  seems  to  have  been  skilled  in 
archery,  according  to  the  statements  of  the  Bible.  11  e 
mav  add,  in  contirmation  of  the ‘preceding  view  of  the 
locality  of  Phut,  that  the  Coptic  name  of  Libya,  nearest 
to  Egypt,  was  Pbaint.  The  supposition  of  Hitzig  that 
phut  was  JJvvrta,  west  of  Libya,  on  the  north  coast  of 
Africa,  and  of  Kalisch  that  it  might  have  been  Bato, 
the  capital  of  the  Delta,  on  the  south  shore  of  the  Butic 
lake,  are  unlikely  to  find  much  acceptance  by  the  side 
of  the  universal  choice  of  all  the  chief  writers,  which 
we  have  indicated  above.  (Pliny,  Hist.  A (it.  v,  1,  has 
mentioned  the  river,  referred  to  by  Josephus,  as  the  Fut 
[or  Phuth],  and  Ptolemy,  in  like  manner,  as  the  4'3o53, 
iv,  1,  3;  cuiTqi.  Michaels,  Spicilcg.  i,  160.)  It  must  be 
admitted  that.  Josephus  and  those  who  have  followed 
him  are  vague  in  their  identification.  Libya  was  of 
vast  extent ; as,  however,  it  extended  to  the  Egyptian 
frontier,  it  will,  perhaps,  best  fulfil  all  the  conditions  of 
the  case,  keeping  in  view  the  military  connection  which 
seems  to  have  existed  between  Phut  and  Egypt,  if  we 
deposit  the  posterity  of  Phut  in  Eastern  Libya  contigu- 
ous to  Egypt,  not  pressing  too  exactly  the  statement  of 
Josephus,  who  probably  meant  no  more,  by  his  reference 
to  the  country  of  the  Moors  and  the  river  Phut,  than 
the  readily  allowed  fact  that  in  the  vast  and  unexplored 
regions  of  Africa  might  be  found  traces,  in  certain  local 
names,  of  this  ancient  son  of  I lam.  The  only  objection 
to  this  extent  of  Libya  is  that  this  part  of  the  country 
lias  already  been  assigned  to  the  Lehabim  (see  above). 
To  us,  however,  it  seems  sufficient  to  obviate  this  diffi- 
culty to  hold  that  while  the  Lehabim  impinged  on  the 
border  of  Upper  Egypt,  the  children  of  Phut  were  con- 
tiguous to  Lower  Egypt,  and  extended  westward  along 
the  north  coast  of  Africa,  and  into  the  very  interior  of 
the  continent.  Phut  was  no  doubt  of  much  greater  ex- 
tent than  the  Lcliahim,  who  were  only  a branch  of  Miz- 
raim; for  it  will  be  observed  that  in  the  case  of  Phut, 
unlike  his  brothers,  he  is  mentioned  alone  without  chil- 
dren. Their  settlements  are  included  in  the  general 
name  of  their  father  Phut,  without  the  subdivisions  into 
which  the  districts  colonized  by  his  brothers’  children 
were  arranged.  The  designation,  therefore,  of  Phut  is 
generic ; of  Ludim,  Lehabim,  etc.,  specific,  and  in  terri- 
tory limited. 

IV.  Canaan  (Josephus  Xavaavotj)  was  the  youngest 
of  the  sons  of  Ham,  and  there  is  less  obscurity  concern- 
ing Ins  descendants.  “ Canaan,  the  fourth  sen  of  Ham,” 
says  Josephus  (.1  nt.  i,  (>,  2),  “ inhabited  the  country  now 
called  Juda-a  ( rt)v  rov  KuXovfu'vijv  ’I ovcaiav.  In  the 
time  of  Josephus,  it  must  he  recollected,  this  included 
the  entire  country  which  we  loosely  call  the  Iioly  Land), 
and  called  it  after  his  own  name,  Canaan.”  This  coun- 
try is  more  distinctly  described  than  any  other  in  llolv 
Scripture,  and  in  the  record  of  Ham’s  family  in  (fen.  x, 
its  boundary  is  sketched  (see  ver.  1!)),  excluding  the  dis- 
trict east  of  the  Jordan.  The  name  Canaan,  however, 
is  sometimes  used  in  n more  limited  sense  than  is  indi- 
cated here  and  elsewhere.  Thus,  in  Numb.  xiii.2!),“tlio 
Canaanites”  are  said  to  “dwell  by  the  sea  and  hv  the 
coast  of  tlie  Jordan”  ( i.  e.  obviously  in  the  lowlands,  both 
maritime  and  inland),  in  opposition  to  the  Hittitcs  and 
Others  who  occupy  the  highlands.  This  limitation  prob- 
ably indicates  the  settlements  of  Canaan  only — as  a sep- 
arate tribe,  apart  from  those  of  Ins  sons — afterwards  to  he 
enumerated  (compare,  for  a similar  limitation  of  a more 
extensive  name,  Osar,  J)e  JMl.  (Jail,  i,  1,  where  C.allia 
has  both  a specific  and  a generic  sense ; comp,  also  the 


I specific  as  well  as  generic  meaning  of  A ngle  or  Engle  in 
I the  Saxon  Chronicle  [Gibson,  p.  13;  Thorpe,  i, 21]  “of 
j Angle  comon  . . . East  Engla,  Middel  Angla”).  On 
! the  much-vexed  questions  of  the  curse  of  Noah  (who 
was  the  object  of  it,  and  what  was  the  extent)  we  can 
here  only  touch.  See  Noah.  What  we  have  already 
discovered,  however,  of  the  power,  energy,  and  widely- 
spread  dominion  of  the  sons  of  Ham,  whom  we  have 
hitherto  mentioned,  offers  some  guidance  to  the  solution 
of  at  least  the  latter  question.  The  remarkable  enter- 
prise of  the  Cushite  hero,  Nimrod;  his  establishment  of. 
imperial  power,  as  an  advance  on  patriarchal  govern- 
ment ; the  strength  of  the  Egypt  of  Mizraim,  and  its 
long  domination  over  the  house  of  Israel ; and  the  evi- 
dence which  now  and  then  appears  that  even  Phut  (who 
is  the  most  obscure  in  his  fortimes  of  all  the  Hamitic 
race)  maintained  a relation  to  the  descendants  of  Shorn 
which  was  far  from  servile  or  subject — all  clearly  tend  to 
limit  the  application  of  Noah’s  maledictory  prophecy  to 
the  precise  terms  in  which  it  was  indited : “ Cursed  be 
Canaan ; a servant  of  servants  shall  he  [not  Cush,  not 
Mizraim,  not  Phut ; but  Ac]  he  to  his  brethren”  (Gen. 
ix,  25) ; “ that  is,”  says  Aben-Ezra,  “ to  Cash,  Mizraim, 
and  Phut,  his  father’s  sons” — with  remarkable  inatten- 
tion to  the  context : “ Blessed  be  the  Lord  God  of  Hhem, 
and  Canaan  shall  be  his  servant.  God  shall  enlarge  Ja- 
pliet  . . . and  Canaan  shall  he  his  servant”  (ver.  26, 27). 
If  we,  then,  confine  the  imprecation  to  Canaan,  we  can 
without  difiieidtv  trace  its  accomplishment  in  the  sub- 
jugation of  the  tribes  which  issued  from  him,  to  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel  from  the  time  of  Joshua  to  that  of  David. 
Here  would  be  verified  Canaan’s  servile  relation  to  Shem  ; 
and  when  imperial  Pome  finally  w'rested  “the  sceptre 
from  Judah,"  and  (“dwelling  in  the  tents  of  Shem”)  oc- 
cupied the  East  and  whatever  remnants  of  Canaan  wore 
left  in  it,  would  not  this  accomplish  that  further  pre- 
diction that  Japhet,  too,  should  be  lord  of  Canaan,  and 
that  (as  it  would  seem  to  be  tacitly  implied)  mediately, 
through  his  occupancy  of  “ the  tents  of  Shem  ?” 

1.  Sidon  (Josephus  Hiccup  S’  v<f  'YA\i)V(t)v  icai  vvv 
KoXeirat,  Ant.  i,  6,  2)  founded  the  ancient  metropolis  of 
Phoenicia,  the  renow  ned  city  called  after  his  own  name, 
and  the  mother-city  of  the  still  more  celebrated  Tyre: 
on  tlie  commercial  enterprise  of  these  cities,  which  reach- 
ed even  to  the  south  of  Britain,  see  Sidon;  Tyre. 

2.  Ileth  (Josephus  Xtrroiot,-)  was  the  father  of  the 
well-known  Hittites,  who  lived  in  the  south  of  Palestine 
around  Hebron  and  Beersheba;  in  the  former  of  which 
places  the  family  sepulchre  of  Abraham  was  purchased 
of  them  (Geu.  xxiii,  3).  Esau  married  “ twro  daughters 
of  Hcth,”  who  gave  great  sorrow  to  their  husband’s 
mother  (Gen.  xxvii.46). 

3.  The  Jebusite  (Josephus  ’ItfiovaaToc;)  had  his  chief 
residence  in  and  around  Jerusalem,  which  bore  the  name 
of  the  patriarch  of  the  tribe,  the  son  of  Canaan,  Jebus. 
The  Jebusites  lost  their  stronghold  only  in  the  time  of 
David. 

4.  The  Amorite  (Josephus  ’A/ioppa'ioQ)  seems  to  have 
been  the  largest  and  most  powerful  of  the  tribes  of  Ca- 
naan. (The  name  “Amorites"  frequently  denotes  the 
inhabitants  of  the  entire  country.)  This  tribe  occupied 
portions  of  territory  on  both  sides  of  the  Jordan,  but  its 
strongest  hold  was  in  “the  hill  country”  of  Judah,  as  it 
was  afterwards  called, 

5.  'l'lie  Ciirgasite  (Josephus  Ff/jyf(ra7oc)  cannot  be  for 
certain  identified.  (Origen  conjectured  that  the  Gir- 
gasites  might,  be  the  Cerge  senes  of  Matt,  viii,  18.) 

6. 1’lie  Write  (Josephus  EooTocV)  liVed  partly  in  the 
neighborhood  of  Shecliem,  and  partly  at  the  foot  of  Her- 
man and  Lebanon. 

7. 'lhe  A rkite  (Josephus  adds  for  once  a locality — 
\poVKaiOQ  < ^ [ttryti']  "A pKjjv  rfjv  iv  Tty  A ifiavtg,  Ant. 

2).  lived  in  the  Phoenician  city  of  A rce,  north  of 
I ripolis.  I ndcr  the  emperors  of  Rome  it  bore  the  name 
of  Casarea  (Lihani).  It  was  long  celebrated  in  the 
i time  of  the  Crusades.  Its  ruins  are  still  extant  at  Tell 
, A rka  (Burckhardt,  Syria,  p.  162). 


HAM 


41 


IIAM 


8.  The  Smite  (Josephus  SavriToe)  probably  dwelt  near 
his  brother,  the  Arkite,  on  the  mountain  fortress  of  2u'- 
vag,  mentioned  by  Strabo  (xv,  755)  ami  by  Jerome. 

y.  The  A rnalite  (Josephus  ' Apovcaiog)  is  mentioned 
by  Josephus  as  occupying  an  island  which  was  very  cel- 
ebrated in  Phoenician  history.  (Strabo  describes  it  in 
xvi,  753.)  “ The  men  of  .1  read"  are  celebrated  by  Ezek. 
xx vi  i,  8, 1 1 . See  Ar  vad. 

10.  The  Zemurite  (Josephus  Suftapaiog')  inhabited 
the  town  of  Simyra  (^ipopa,  mentioned  by  Strabo), 
near  the  river  Eleutherus,  at  the  western  extremity  of 
the  mountains  of  Lebanon ; extensive  ruins  of  this  city 
are  found  at  the  present  day  bearing  the  name  of  Sum- 
rah. 

11.  The  Ilamathite  (Josephus  ApaSiog).  “The  en- 
tering in  of  Hamath"  indicates  the  extreme  northern 
frontier  of  the  Holy  Land,  as  “ the  river  of  Egypt"  does 
its  southernmost  limit  (1  Kings  viii,  G5  sq.). 

In  the  verse  following  the  enumeration  of  these  names, 
the  sacred  writer  says,  “Afterwards  were  the  families  of 
the  Canaanites  spread  abroad."  This  seems  to  indicate 
subsequent  conquests  made  by  them  previous  to  their 
own  subjugation  by  the  Israelites.  “To  show  the  great 
goodness  of  God  towards  Israel,"  says  the  Jewish  com- 
mentator Mendelssohn,  “ Moses  records  in  Gen.  x the 
original  narrow  limits  of  the  land  possessed  by  the  Ca- 
naanites, which  they  were  permitted  to  extend  by  con- 
quest from  the  neighboring  nations,  and  that  (as  in  the 
case  of  the  Amorite  Sihon,  Numb,  xxi,  2G)  up  to  the 
very  time  when  Israel  was  ready  to  take  possession  of 
the  whole.  To  prepare  his  readers  for  the  great  increase 
of  the  Canaauitish  dominions,  the  sacred  historian  (in 
this  early  chapter,  where  he  mentions  their  original 
boundaries)  takes  care  to  state  that  subsequently  to 
their  .primitive  occupation  of  the  land,  ‘ the  families  of 
the  Canaanites  spread  abroad,’  until  their  boundaries  be- 
came such  as  are  described  in  Numbers  xxxiv.”  The 
Ilamathites  alone  of  those  identified  were  settled  in  ear- 
ly times  wholly  beyond  the  land  of  Canaan.  Perhaps 
there  was  a primeval  extension  of  the  Canaauitish  tribes 
after  their  first  establishment  in  the  land  called  after 
their  ancestor.  One  of  their  most  important  extensions 
was  to  the  north-east,  where  was  a great  branch  of  the 
llittite  nation  in  the  valley  of  the  Orontes,  constantly 
mentioned  in  the  wars  of  the  Pharaohs,  and  in  those  of 
the  kings  of  Assyria.  Two  passages  which  have  occa- 
sioned much  controversy  may  here  be  noticed.  In  the 
account  of  Abraham’s  entrance  into  Palestine  it  is  said, 
“And  the  Canaanite  [wasj  then  in  the  land"  (Gen.  xii, 
6) ; and  as  to  a somewhat  later  time,  that  of  the  separa- 
tion of  Abraham  and  Lot,  we  read  that  “the  Canaanite 
and  the  Perizzite  dwelt  then  in  the  land”  (xiii,7).  These 
passages  have  been  supposed  either  to  be  late  glosses, 
or  to  indicate  that  the  Pentateuch  was  written  at  a late 
period.  A comparison  of  all  the  passages  referring  to 
the  primitive  history  of  Palestine  and  Idumaea  shows 
that  there  was  an  earlier  population  expelled  by  the 
Hamitic  and  Abrahamite  settlers.  This  population  was 
important  in  the  time  of  the  war  of  Chedorlaomer ; but 
at  the  Exodus,  more  than  four  hundred  years  after- 
wards, there  was  but  a remnant  of  it.  It  is  most  nat- 
ural, therefore,  to  infer  that  the  two  passages  under  con- 
sideration mean  that  the  Canaanitisli  settlers  were  al- 
ready in  the  land,  not  that  they  were  still  there. 

tV General  Characteristics. — Such  were  11am  and  his 
family,  notwithstanding  the  stigma  which  adhered  to 
that  section  of  them  which  came  into  the  nearest  rela- 
tion to  the  Israelites  afterwards;  they  were  the  most  en- 
ergetic of  the  descendants  of  Noah  in  the  early  ages  of 
the  postdiluvian  world — at  least  we  have  a fuller  de- 
scription of  their  enterprise  than  of  their  brethren’s  as 
displayed  in  the  primitive  ages.  The  development  of 
empire  among  the  Euphratean  Cushites  was  a step 
much  in  advance  of  the  rest  of  mankind  in  political  or- 
ganization ; nor  was  the  grandson  of  Ham  less  conspicu- 
ous as  a conqueror.  The  only  coherent  interpretation 
of  the  important  passage  which  is  contained  in  Gen.  x. 


10-12,  is  that  which  is  adopted  in  the  margin  of  the  A 
V.  After  Nimrod  had  laid  the  foundation  of  his  empire 
(“  the  beginning  of  his  kingdom,”  ircb'S’a  PS^X^.  the 
territory  of  which  it  was  at  first  composed — comp.  llos. 

ix,  10,  “ as  the  first  ripe  in  the  fig-tree  fiP*',L;X“2  at 
her  first  time,"  that  is,  when  the  tree  first  begins  to  bear 
— Gesen.)  in  liis  native  Shinar,  not  satisfied  with  the 
splendid  acquisitions  which  he  took  at  first,  no  doubt, 
from  his  own  kinsmen,  he  invaded  the  north-eastern 
covuitries,  where  the  children  of  Shcm  wrere  for  the  first 
time  disturbed  in  their  patriarchal  simplicity:  “Out  of 
that  land  [even  Shinar,  Nimrod]  went  forth  to  Assliur 
[or  Assyria],  and  builded  Nineveh,  and  the  city  Eeho- 
botli,  and  Calali,  and  Besen,  between  Nineveh  and  Ca- 
lah ; the  same  is  a great  city,”  i.  e.  the  combination  of  ‘ 
the  forementioned  four  formed,  with  their  interjacent 
spaces,  the  “great  city.”  (The  objection  to  this  ren- 
dering is  based  by  1’oscnm idler  [ Schol . ad  loc.),  after 
other  commentators,  on  the  absence  of  the  n “local”  ap- 
pended to  P*’i:X  [which  they  say  ought  to  be  ~“rVX 
to  produce  the  meaning  to  A ssyriti].  The  PI  “local"  is, 
however,  far  from  indispensable  for  the  sense  we  re- 
quire, which  has  been  advocated  by  authorities  of  great 
value  vrell  versed  in  Hebrew7  construction;  Knobel  [who 
himself  holds  our  view7]  mentions  Onkelos,  Targ.  Jonatli., 
Bochart,  Clericns,  De  Wette,  Tuch,  Baumgarten,  Dc- 
litzsch,  as  supporting  it.  He  might  have  added  Jose- 
phus, who  makes  Nimrod  the  builder  of  Babylon  [ .1  nt. 
i,  4],  and  Kaliscli,  and  Keil.  To  make  the  passage  Gen. 

x,  10-12  descriptive  of  the  Sliemitic  Assliur,  is  to  do  vio- 
lence to  the  passage  itself  aiul  its  context.  Assliur, 
morever,  is  mentioned  in  his  proper  place  in  vcr.  22, 
without,  however,  the  least  indication  of  an  intention 
of  describing  him  as  the  founder  of  a rival  empire  to 
that  of  Nimrod.  Gesenius  admits  the  probability  of  our 
view7,  without  any  objection  of  grammatical  structure. 
[See,  for  instances  of  the  accits.  noun  (without  the  suffix 
of  “local”  !"!)•  after  verbs  of  motion,  Numb,  xxxiv,  4; 
Gen.  xxxiii,  18;  2 Cliron.  xx,  3G.  Compare  Gesenius, 
Gram.  p.  130,  172,  and  Nordlieimer’s  Gram.  sec.  841].) 
This  is  the  opinion  of  Knobel,  answering  to  the’tlieory 
which  has  connected  the  ruins  of  Khorsabad,  Koyunjik, 
Nimrnd,and  Keremlis  together  as  the  remains  of  a vast 
quadrilateral  city,  popularly  called  Nineveh.  (For  a dif- 
ferent view  of  the  whole  subject  the  reader  is  referred 
to  Mr.  Itawdinsou’s  recent  volume  on  The  Fire  Great 
Monarchies,  i,  311-315.)  But  the  genius  which  mould- 
ed imperial  pow7er  at  first, did  not  avail  to  retain  it  long; 
the  sceptre,  before  many  ages,  passed  to  the  race  of* 
Shorn  (for  the  Sliemitic  character  of  the  Arabian  tribes 
who  crushed  the  primitive  Cushite  power  of  Babylon, 
see  Ravlinson,  Great  Fmpires,  i,  222, 223.  The  Arabian 
Hamites  of  Yemen  seem  also  to  have  merged,  probably 
by  conquest,  into  a Joktanite  population  of  Sliemitic  de- 
scent [see  for  these  Gen.  x,  25-20,  and  Assemani,  JSill. 
Orient.  Ill,  ii,  553,  544]),  except  in  Africa,  where  Miz- 
raim’s  descendants  had  a longer  tenure  of  the  Egyptian 
monarchy.  It  is  w ell  to  bear  in  mind  (and  the  more  so, 
inasmuch  as  a different  theory  has  here  greatly  obscured 
plain  historic  truth)  that  in  the  primeval  Cushite  em- 
pire of  Babylon  considerable  progress  was  made  in  the 
arts  of  civilized  society  (an  early  allusion  to  which  is 
made  in  Josh,  vii,  21 ; and  a later  in  Dan.  i,  4 : see  Kaw- 
linson,  First  Monarchy , chap.  v). 

In  the  genealogical  record  of  the  race  of  11am  (Gen. 
x)  reference  is  made  to  the  “ tongues ” (or  dialects) 
w7hich  they  spoke  (ver.  20).  Comparative  philology, 
which  is  so  rich  in  illustrations  of  the  unity  of  the  Indo- 
Germanic  languages,  hrs  done  next  to  nothing  to  eluci- 
date the  linguistic  relations  of  the  families  of  Ilam. 
Philologers  are  not  agreed  as  to  a Hamitic  class  of  lan- 
guages. Recently  Bunsen  has  applied  the  term  “ Ham- 
itism,”  or,  as  he  writes  it,  Chamitism,  to  the  Egyptian 
language,  or.  rather,  family.  He  places  it  at  the  head 
of  the  “ Sliemitic  stock,"  to  which  he  considers  it  as  but 


IIAM 


42 


HAM 


partially  belonging,  and  thus  describes  it : “Chamitism, 
or  ante-historical  Shemitism : the  Charaitic  deposit  in 
Egvpt ; its  daughter,  the  Demotic  Egyptian;  and  its 
emi  t he  ( .'opt  ie”  (Outlines,  i,  183).  Sir  1 1.  liawlinson  has 
applied  the  term  Cushite  to  the  primitive  language  of 
Babylonia,  and  the  same  term  has  been  used  for  the  an- 
cient language  of  the  southern  coast  of  Arabia.  This 
terminology  depends  in  every  instance  upon  the  race  of 
the  nai ion' speaking  the  language,  and  not  upon  any 
theory  of  a Ilamitie  class.  There  is  evidence  which,  at 
the  first  view,  would  incline  us  to  consider  that  the  term 
Shemitic,  as  applied  to  the  Syro-Arabic  class,  should  be 
changed  to  ilamitie;  but,  on  a more  careful  examina- 
tion,^ becomes  evident  that  any  absolute  classification 
of  languages  into  groups  corresponding  to  the  three 
great  Noaehian  families  is  not  tenable.  The  Biblical 
evidence  scorns,  at  first  sight,  in  favor  of  Hebrew  being 
classed  as  a Ilamitie  rather  than  a Shemitic  form  of 
speech.  It  is  called  in  the  Bible  “the  language  of  Ca- 
naan,” 'i?'?  fB  - (Isa.  xix,  18),  although  those  speak- 
ing it  arc  elsewhere  said  to  speak  r."Trv%  Judaice  (2 
Kings  xviii,  26,  28;  Isa.  xxxvi,  11,  13;  Nell,  xiii,  24). 
But  the  one  term,  as  Gesenius  remarks  (Gramm.  Introd.), 
indicates  the  country  where  the  language  was  spoken; 
the  other  as  evidently  indicates  a people  by  whom  it 
was  spoken:  thus  the  question  of  its  being  a Ilamitie 
or  a Shemitic  language  is  not  touched ; for  the  circum- 
stance that  it  was  the  language  of  Canaan  is  agreeable 
with  its  being  either  indigenous  (and  therefore  either 
( 'anamiite  or  Ilephaite),  or  adopted  (and  therefore  per- 
haps Shemitic).  The  names  of Canaanitish  persons  and 
places,  as  Gesenius  lias  observed  (/.  c.),  conclusively 
show  that  the  Canaanites  spoke  what  we  call  Hebrew. 
Elsewhere  we  might  find  evidence  of  the  use  of  a so- 
called  Shemitic  language  hv  nations  either  partly  or 
wholly  of  Ilamitie  origin.  This  evidence  would  favor 
the  theory  that  Hebrew  was  Ilamitie;  but, on  the  other 
hand,  we  should  he  unable  to  dissociate  Shemitic  lan- 
guages  from  Shemitic  peoples.  The  Egyptian  language 
wool  1 also  offer  groat  difficulties,  unless  it  were  held  to 
be  but  partly  of  Ilamitie  origin,  since  it  is  mainly  of  an 
entirely  different  class  from  the  Shemitic.  It  is  mainly 
Nigritian,  but  it  also  contains  Shemitic  elements.  It  is 
the  opinion  of  the  latest  philologcrs  that  the  ground- 
work  is  Nigritian,  and  that  the  Shemitic  part  is  a layer 
added  to  a complete  Nigritian  language.  The  two  ele- 
ments arc  mixed,  but  not  fused.  Some  Iranian  schol- 
ar.' hold  that  the  two  elements  are  mixed,  and  that  the 
ancient  Egyptian  represents  the  transition  from  Tura- 
nian t<>  Shemitic.  The  only  solution  of  the  difficulty 
seems  to  he  that  what  we  call  Shemitic  is  early  Noachi- 
nn.  ( See  liawlinson.  Fire  Gnat  Monarchies,  First  Mon. 
eh.  iv ; Lenormaiit,  introduction  it  Vhistoire  de  l' Ask  or- 
ri  dm  talc,  lir  Appeudice;  Meier,  Ihb.  Wnrzel.  w.  b.  3*e 
Alibiing;  Gesenius,  Sketch  oj  the  llehr.  Lanrj.  (prefixed 
to  his  Grammar)',  Bunsen,  Egypt's  Place,'  etc.,  vol.  i, 
Append.  1 ; Wiseman,  Lectures  on  Science  and  Per  rated 
Jolii/inn,  p.  1 !.),  2d  ed. ; Max  Midler,  Science  of'  Lan- 
rjno'/e,  p.  26!».)  See  SiiicAitTK-  Languages. 

Theories  more  or  loss  specious  have  been  formed  to 
account  for  these  affinities  to  the  Hebrew  from  so  many 
points  of  the  Ilamitie  nations.  None  of  these  theories 
rise  above  t ho  degree  of  precarious  hypothesis,  nor  could 
it  bo  expected  that  they  should  in  the  imperfection  of 
our  present  knowledge.  It.  is,  indeed,  .satisfactory  to 
observe  that  the  tendency  of  linguistic  inquiries  is  to 
establish  the  fact  avouched  in  the  Pentateuch  of  the 
original  unity  of  human  speech.  The  most  conspicu- 
ous achievement,  of  comparative  philology  hitherto  has 
been  to  prove  the  affinity  of  the  member's  of  that  lar-m 
class  of  languages  which  extend  from  the  Eastern  San- 
scrit to  tl„.  Western  Welsh;  parallel  with  this  is  the 
coin  par  son  among  themselves  of  the  various  members  of 
tlie  Shemitic  class  of  languages,  which  has  demonstra- 
ted their  essential  identity;  but  greater  still  will  be  the 
work  of  establishing,  on  certain  principles,  the  natural 


t 

relationship  of  tongues  of  different  classes.  Among  these, 
divergences  must  needs  be  wider;  but  when  occasional 
affinities  crop  out  they  will  be  proportionately  valuable 
as  evidences  of  a more  ancient  and  profound  agreement. 

It  seems  to  us  that  the  facts, which  have  thus  far  trans- 
pired, indicative  of  affinity  betw-een  the  languages  of 
the  Hanutic  and  .Shemitic  races,  go  some  way  to  show 
the  probability  of  the  historical  and  genealogical  record 
of  which  we  have  been  treating,  that  the  tribes  to  whom 
the  sakl  languages  wrere  vernacular  -were  really  of  near 
kindred  and  often  associated  in  abode,  either  by  con- 
quest or  amicable  settlement,  with  one  another. 

An  inquiry  into  the  history  of  the  Ilamitie  nations 
presents  considerable  difficulties,  since  it  cannot,  be  de- 
termined in  the  eases  of  the  most  important  of  those 
commonly  held  to  lie  Ilamite  that  they'  were  purely  of 
that  stock.  It  is  certain  that  the  three  most  illustrious 
Ilamitie  nations— the  Cushites,  the  Phoenicians,  and  the 
Egyptians — were  greatly  mixed  with  foreign  peoples. 

Iu  Babylonia  the  Hamit  ie  element  seems  to  have  been 
absorbed  by  the  Shemitic,  but  not  in  the  earliest  times. 

There  are  some  common  characteristics,  how'ever,  which 
appear  to  connect  the  different  branches  of  the  Ilamitie 
family,  and  to  distinguish  them  from  the  children  of 
Japheth  and  Shorn.  Their  architecture  has  a solid 
grandeur  that  we  look  for  in  vain  elsewhere.  Egypt, 
Babylonia,  and  Southern  Arabia  alike  afford  proofs  of 
this,  and  the  few  remaining  monuments  of  the  Phoeni- 
cians are  of  the  same  class.  What  is  very  important  as 
indicating  the  purely  Ilamitie  character  of  the  monu- 
ments to  which  we  refer  is  that  the  earliest  in  Egypt 
are  the  most  characteristic,  wdiile  the  earlier  in  Babylo- 
nia do  not  yield  in  this  respect  to  the  later.  The  na- 
tional mind  seems  in  all  these  cases  to  have  marked  these 
material  forms.  The  early  history  of  each  of  the  .chief , 

Ilamitie  nations  shows  great  powrer  of  organizing  an  ex- 
tensive kingdom,  of  acquiring  material  greatness,  and 
checking  the  inroads  of  neighboring  nomadic  peoples. 

The  Philistines  afford  a remarkable  instance  of  these 
qualities.  In  every  case,  however,  the  more  energetic 
sons  of  Shem  or  Japheth  have  at  last  fallen  upon  the 
rich  Hamitic  territories  and  despoiled  them.  Egypt,  fa- 
vored by  a position  fenced  round  with  nearly  impassable 
barriers — on  the  north  an  almost  havenless  coast,  on  the 
east  and  west  sterile  deserts — held  its  freedom  far  longer 
than  the  rest;  yet  even  in  the  days  of  Solomon  the 
throne  wras  filled  by  foreigners,  who,  if  Ilamites,  w'ere 
Shemitic  enough  in  their  belief  to  revolutionize  the  re- 
ligion of  the  country.  In  Babylonia  the  Medes  bad 
already  captured  Nimrod’s  city  more  than  2000  years 
before  the  Christian  aara.  The  Hamites  of  Southern 
Arabia  were  so  early  overthrown  by  the  Joktanites  that 
the  scanty  remains  of  tlieir  history  are  alone  known  to 
us  through  tradition.  Yet  the  story  of  the  magnificence 
•of  the  ancient  kings  of  Yemen  is  so  perfectly  in  accord- 
ance w ith  all  we  know  of  the  Hamites  that  it  is  almost 
enough  of  itself  to  prove  what  other  evidence  has  so 
well  established.  The  history  of  the  Canaanites  is  sim- 
ilar ; and  if  that  of  the  Phoenicians  be  an  exception,  it 
must  be  recollected  that  they  became  a merchant  class, 
as  Ezekiel’s  famous  * description  of  Tyre  show's  (chap, 
xxvii).  In  speaking  of  Hamitic  characteristics  we  do 
not  intend  it  to  be  inferred  that  they  wrere  necessarily 
altogether  of  Hamitic  origin,  and  not  at  least  partly  bor- 
rowed. 

Among  other  points  of  general  interest,  the  reader 
wall  not  fail  to  observe  the  relations  in  which  the  differ- 
ent sections  of  the  Hamitic  race  stand  to  each  other;  e. 
g.  it  is  important  to  bear  in  mind  that  the  Philistines 
trere  not  Canaanites,  as  is  often  assumed  through  an 
oversight  of  the  fact  that  the  former  were  descended 
from  the  second  and  the  latter  from  the  fourth  son  of 
Ham.  The  Toledoth  Beni  Xouh  of  Genesis  is  a precious 
document  in  many  respects,  as  has  often  been  acknowl- 
edged (see  liawlinson,  Hampton  Lectures,  p.  68);  but  ill 
no  respect  does  it  bear  a higher  value  than  as  an  intro- 
duction, provided  by  the  sacred  writer  himself,  to  the 


HAM 


43 


IIAMAKE1 


subsequent  history  of  the  Hebrew  nation  in  its  relations 
to  the  rest  of  mankind.  The  intelligent  reader  of  Scrip- 
ture will  experience  much  help  in  his  study  of  that  his- 
tory, and  indeed  of  prophecy  also,  by  a constant  recur- 
rence to  the  particulars  of  this  authoritative  ethnolog- 
ical record. 

We  conclude  with  an  extract  from  Hr.  Rawlinson’s 
Fire  Great  Monarchies,  which  describes,  in  a favorable 
though  hardly  exaggerated  light,  some  of  the  obliga- 
tions under  which  the  primitive  race  of  Ham  has  laid 
the  world  : “Not  possessed  of  many  natural  advantages, 
the  Chaldiean  people  yet  exhibited  a fertility  of  inven- 
tion, a genius,  and  an  energy  which  place  them  high  in 
the  scale  of  nations,  and  more  especially  in  the  list  of 
those  descended  from  the  Ilamitic  stock.  For  the  last. 
3000  years  the  world  has  been  mainly  indebted  for  its 
advancement  to  the  Shemitic  and  Indo-European  races; 
hut  it  was  otherwise  in  the  Jirst  ages.  Egypt  and  Baby- 
lon, Mizraim  and  Nimrod— both  descendants  of  Ham — 
led  the  way  and  acted  as  pioneers  of  mankind  in  the 
various  untrodden  fields  of  art,  literature,  and  science. 
Alphabetic  writing,  astronomy,  history,  chronology,  ar- 
chitecture, plastic  art,  sculpture,  navigation,  agriculture, 
textile  industry— seem,  all  of  them,  to  have  had  their 
origin  in  one  or  other  of  these  two  countries.  The  be- 
ginnings may  often  have  been  humble  enough.  We 
may  laugh  at  the  rude  picture-writing,  the  uncouth 
brick  pyramid,  the  coarse  fabric,  the  homely  and  ill- 
shapen  instruments,  as  they  present  themselves  to  our 
notice  in  the  remains  of  these  ancient  nations,  but  they 
are  really  worthier  of  our  admiration  than  of  our  ridi- 
cule. The  first  inventors  of  any  art  arc  among  the 
greatest  benefactors  of  their  race  . . . and  mankind  at 
the  present  day  lies  under  infinite  obligations  to  the  ge- 
nius and  industry  of  these  early  ages”  (p.  75,  76). — Ivit- 
to,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v. 

2.  “They  of  Ham”  [or  Cham ] (cn“‘|C;  Sept.  ’Ek  ' 
ridu  viuiv  Xdf.i ; Vulg.  tie  stirpe  Cham')  are  mentioned  in 
1 Chron.  iv,  40 — in  one  of  those  historical  fragments  for 
which  the  early  chapters  of  these  Chronicles  are  so  val- 
uable, as  illustrating  the  private  enterprise  and  valor  of 
certain  sections  of  the  Hebrew  nation.  On  the  present 
occasion  a consideraule  portion  of  the  tribe  of  Simeon, 
consisting  of  thirteen  princes  and  their  clansmen,  in  the 
reign  of  Hczekiah,  sought  to  extend  their  territories 
(which  from  the  beginning  seem  to  have  been  too  narrow 
for  their  numbers)  by  migrating  “to  the  entrance  of  Ce- 
dar, even  unto  the  east  side  of  the  valley,  to  seek  pasture 
for  their  flocks.”  Finding  here  a quiet,  and,  as  it  would 
seem,  a secure  and  defenceless  population  of  Hamites 
(the  meaning  of  1 Chron.  iv,  40  receives  illustration  from 
Judg.  xviii,  7,  28),  the  Simeonites  attacked  them  with  a 
vigor  that  reminds  us  of  the  times  of  Joshua,  and  took 
permanent  possession  of  the  district,  which  was  well 
adapted  for  pastoral  purposes.  The  Gedor  here  men- 
tioned cannot  be  the  Gedor  (q.  v.)  of  Josh,  xv,  58. 
There  is  strong  gromid,  however,  for  supposing  that  it 
may  oe  the  Gederah  (q.  v.)  of  ver.  36 ; or,  if  we  follow 
the  Sept,  rendering,  Tepapa,  and  read  for  “3  3,  it 
would  be  the  well-known  Gerar. . This  last  would,  of 
course,  if  the  name  coidd  be  relied  on,  fit  extremely 
well;  in  its  vicinity  the  patriarchs  of  old  had  sojourned 
and  fed  their  flocks  and  herds  (see  Gen.  xx,  1,  14.  15; 
xxvi,  1,6, 14,  and  especially  ver.  17-20).  Berthean  (die 
B.  der  Chronik ) on  this  passage,  and  Ewald  ( Gesch . des 
Volkes  Israel  [ed.  2],  i,  322),  accept  the  reading  of  the 
Sept.,  and  place  the  Simeonite  conquest  in  the  valley  of 
Gerar  (in  Williams.  Holy  City  [2d  ed.],  i,  4G3-468,  there 
is  a note,  contributed  by  the  Rev,  J.  Rowlands,  on  the 
Southern  Border  of  Palestine , and  containing  an  account 
of  his  supposed  discovery  of  the  ancient  Gerar  [called 
Khirhet  el-Gerar,  the  ruins  of  Gerar]  ; see  also  Van  de 
Velde,  Memoir,  p.  314).  In  the  determination  of  the 
ultimate  question  with  which  this  article  is  concerned, 
it  matters  but  little  which  of  these  two  localities  we  ac- 
cept as  the  residence  of  those  children  of  Ham  whom 


the  Simeonites  dispossessed.  Both  are  within  the  pre- 
cincts of  the  land  of  the  Philistines:  the  latter,  perhaps, 
may  be  regarded  as  on  the  border  of  the  district  which 
we  assigned  in  the  preceding  article  to  the  Cusluhim ; 
in  either  case  “they  of  Ham,”  of  whom  we  are  writing, 
in  1 Chron.  iv,  40,  must  be  regarded  as  descended  from 
Ham  through  his  second  son  Mizraim. — Kitto,  s.  v. 

3.  Ham  (Hob.  id.  CM,  with  he,  prob.  meaning  a mul- 
titude; Furst  [ Lex.  s.  v.]  compares  the  Lat.  Turbo  and 
Cojna,  as  names  of  places ; the  Sept,  and  Vulg.  translate 
[«/i«]  avroic,  [rum]  eis),  in  Gen.  xiv,  5,  if  a proper 
name  at  all,  was  probably  the  principal  town  of  a people 
whose  name  occurs  but  once  in  the  O.  T.,  “ the  Zuzims ” 
(as  rendered  in  the  A.  V.).  If  these  were  “ the  Zwnzxtm- 
mims ” of  Dent,  ii,  20  (as  has  been  conjectured  by  Rashi, 
Calmet,  Patrick,  etc.,  among  the  older  writers,  and  Gc- 
senius,  RoscnmulJer,  Ewald  [ Volkes  Israel,  i,  308],  Dc- 
litzsch,  Knobcl,  and  Keil  among  the  moderns),  we  have 
some  clew  to  the  site;  for  it  appears  from  the  entire 
passage  in  Deut.  that  the  Zamzunnmm  were  the  orig- 
inal occupants  of  the  country  of  the  Ammonites.  Tuch 
and  others  have  accordingly  supposed  that  our  Ham, 
where  the  Zuzim  were  defeated  by  Chedorlaomer  on  his 
second  invasion,  was  the  primitive  name  of  Rubbath 
Am mon,  afterwards  Philadelphia  (Jerome  and  Eusebius, 
Onomast.  s.  v.  Amman),  the  capital  of  the  Ammonitish 
territory.  It  is  still  called  [the  ruins  of]  ’Amman,  ac- 
cording to  Robinson  ( Researches , iii,  168).  There  is 
some  doubt,  however,  whether  the  word  in  Gen.  xiv,  5 
be  anything  more  than  a pronoun.  The  Masoretic  read- 
ing of  the  clause,  indeed,  is  CM3  D*'T’-TM“rN;|',  the  last 
word  of  which  is  pointed,  CM2  (A.V.  “In  Ham”),  as  if 
there  were  three  battles,  and  one  of  them  had  been 
fought  at  a place  so  called;  and  it  perhaps  makes  for 
this  reading  that,  according  to  Kennicott,  seven  Samar- 
itan MSS.  read  CM2  (with  Ileth).,  which  can  produce  no 
othc  r meaning  than  in  Ham,  or  Cham  with  the  aspirate. 
Yet  the  other  (that  is,  the  pronominal ) reading  must 
have  been  recognised  in  ancie  nt  Hebrew  MSS.  even  as 
early  as  the  time  of  the  Sept,  translators,  who  render 
the  phrase  “ together  with  them ;"  as  if  there  were  but 
two  conflicts,  in  the  former  of  which  the  great  Eastern 
invader  “smote  the  Bephaim  in  Ashteroth-Karnaim, 
and  the  Zuzim  [which  the  Sept,  makes  an  appellative — 
(ffxi’pd,  “ strong  nations'’)  along  with  them,"  as  their 
allies.  Jerome’s  Quasi.  Ilebr.  Opera  (ed.  Bened.,  Veil. 
1767,  III,  ii,  327)  proves  that  the  Hebrew  MSS.  extant 
in  his  day  varied  in  their  readings  of  this  passage.  This 
reading  he  seems  to  have  preferred,  CM2,  for  in  his  own 
version  [Vulgate]  lie  renders  the  word  like  the  Sept. 
Onkelos,  however,  regarded  the  reading  evidently  as  a 
proper  name,  for  he  has  translated  it  by  SMC  M2,  “ in 
Ileinta,"  and  so  has  the  Pseudo-Jonathan’s  Targum; 
while  the  Jerusalem  has  *j"M2, 11  with  them."  Saadias, 
again,  has  the  proper  name,  “in  Hama."  Ilillcrus, 
whom  Rosenmiiller  quotes,  identifies  this  Ham  with  the 
famous  Ammonitish  capital  Rabbah  (2  Sam.  xi,  1 ; 1 
Chron.  xx,  1) ; “ the  two  names,”  he  says,  “are  synon- 
ymous— Rabbah  meaning  populous,  as  in  Lament,  i,  1, 
where  Jerusalem  is  CC“nr23,  * the  city  [that  was]  full 
of  people while  the  more  ancient  name  of  the  same 
city,  CM,  has  the  same  signification  as  the  collective 
word  ‘ji’CM,  that  is,  a multitude." — Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Gil- 
ead, 1. 

Hamaker,  Heiniucii  Arens,  a Dutch  Orientalist, 
was  born  at  Amsterdam  Feb.  25,  1789;  became  profess- 
or of  Oriental  languages  in  the  Academy  of  Franeker 
in  1815,  assistant  professor  in  1817,  and  in  1822  profess- 
or ordinarius  of  the  same  in  the  University  of  Leyden, 
where  he  died  Oct.  10, 1835.  He  was  a man  of  great 
erudition,  and  was  regarded  as  one  of  the  first  Oriental 
scholars  of  Holland.  His  works  are  not  free  from  marks 
of  negligence,  due  probably  to  hasty  composition  and 


44 


HAMANN 


IIAMAN 

the  great  variety  of  subjects  treated.  Among  them 
,„ny  be  named  O ratio  de  religione  A/u/utmmedica,  magno 
rir/u/is  belliar  apud  oriental^  inrihnnento  (Levd.  lHli- 
|rt,  Ito):  — Specimen  t'utalogi  Codicum  MSS.  Orienta- 
Huut  Bibliotlnae  Acadetnirc  Lngdnno-Batavie  (Leyden, 
l«->n  -I i<» ; with  valuable  notes  from  Oriental  MSS.  a 
newed.bv  l>.*v  1 Levd.  1848-52,  2 vols.  *vo]  contains 
bibliographical  notes  left  in  MS.  by  llamaker)  :-Iucerti 
. I uctoris  LiUc  de  p.rpitgitatione  Afemphidts  it  Alexan- 
dria, etc.  (Leyden,  1*25.  4to ) Miscellanea  Phanicia 
(Leyden.  1828): — Conimentatio  in  lihro  de  Vita  et  Morte 
People  tnruin,  etc.  (Amst.  I 833,  -I to)  •.—Miscellanea  Sa- 
maritaua,  a posthumous  work  edited  by  M evers.  He 
published  also  various  papers  in  Annalen  of  the  univer- 
sities of  Gottingen  (1816-17)  and  Leyden  (1823-24);  in 
the  Bibliotheca  Mora  of  Leyden,  Magnzin  voor  Weten- 
schappen  of  Vail  der  Kampen,  and  in  the  Journal  Asia- 
ti'jne  of  Paris.  Others  have  been  posthumously  pub- 
lished in  the  ttrientalia  (Leyden),  vol.  i and  ii.— Pierer, 
s.  v. ; Ilocfer,  A 'our.  Biop.  Generale,  xxiii,  209 ; De  Sacy,  | 
in  Jour,  ties  Savants,  1820, 1827, 1829, 1834.  (J.W  • M.)  | 
Ha 'man  (lleb.  Human’,  peril,  from  the  Pers. 

homam , magnificent,  or  the  Sanscr.  heman,  the  planet 
Af t rain/;  Sep*t.  ’A pdv),  a favorite  and  chief  minister  or 
vizier  of  the  king  of  Persia,  whose  history  is  involved  in 
that  of  Esther  and  Mordecai  (Esther  iii,  1 sq.), B.C.  473. 
See  An asi/eki's.  lie  is  called  an  Agagite ; and  as  Agag 
was  a kind  of  title  of  the  kings  of  the  Amalekites  [see 
A(i.\ii),  it  is  supposed  that  Hainan  was  descended  from 
the  royal  family  of  that  nation  (see  Gesenius,  Thes.Heb. 
p.  20).  lie  or  his  parents  probably  found  their  way  to 
Persia  as  captives  or  hostages;  and  that  the  foreign  or- 
igin of  Hainan  was  no  bar  to  his  advancement  at  court 
is  a circumstance  quite  in  union  with  the  most  ancient 
and  still  subsisting  usages  of  the  East.  Joseph,  Daniel, 
and  Mordecai  afford  other  examples  of  the  same  kind. 
After  the  failure  of  his  attempt  to  cut  off  all  the  Jews 
in  the  Persian  empire,  he  was  hanged  on  the  gallows 
which  he  had  erected  for  Mordecai.  Most  probably  he 
is  the  same  Atnan  who  is  mentioned  as  the  oppressor  of 
Achiacharus  (Tobit  xiv,  Id).  The  Targum  and  Jose- 
phus (.la/,  xi,  (i,  5)  interpret  the  description  of  him — 
the  Agagite— as  signifying  that  he  was  of  Amalekitish 
descent ; but  he  is  called  a Macedonian  by  the  Sept,  in 
Esth.  ix,  21  (comp.  iii.  1),  and  a Persian  by  Sulpicius 
Sovorns.  Pridcanx  ( Connexion , anno  453)  computes  the 
sum  which  he  offered  to  pay  into  the  royal  treasury  at 
more  than  £2,000.001)  sterling.  Modern  Jews  are  said 
to  Ik?  in  the  habit  of  designating  any  Christian  enemy 
by  his  name  (Eiscnmenger,  Put.  Jud.  i,  721 ).  The  cir- 
cumstantial details  of  the  height  which  he  attained,  and 
of  his  sudden  downfall,  afford,  like  all  the  rest  of  the 
book  of  Esther,  a most  faithful  picture  of  the  customs 
of  an  t tricntal  court  and  government,  and  furnish  invalu- 
able materials  fora  comparison  between  the  regal  usages 
of  ancient  and  modern  times.  (See  Kitto’s  Bail;/  Bible 
/ /hist,  ad  loc.) — Kit  to,  s.  v.;  Smith,  s.  v.  See  Estiiku, 

Ik  NIK  OK. 

Hamann,  Johann  Gicono,  an  eminent  German 
writ'-r  and  poet,  was  born  at  Kbiiigsberg,  in  Prussia,  on 
the  27th  of  August.  1730.  llis  early  education  was  mis- 
cellaneous, and  to  it  he  attributed  the  want  of  taste  and 
elegance  of  his  style.  At  last,  when  about  sixteen  years 
old.  bis  father  decided  on  sending  him  to  the  high- 
sehool.  lie  there  acquired  a knowledge  of  Latin  and 
of  ancient  literature.  For  a while  he  felt  inclined  to 
study  theology,  but  an  impediment  in  bis  speech,  and 
want  of  memory  incident  upon  a sickness  lie  hail  while 
at  school,  made  him  give  ir  up.  Law,  for  which  his 
parents  destined  him, was  distasteful  to  him,  and  he  ap- 
plied himself  diligently  to  the  study  of  antiquity,  the 
tine  arts,  and  modern  literature.  In  1751  he  closed  his 
course  of  study  at  Kbnigsherg  with  a philosophical  dis- 
sertation entitled  Be  somno  et  somniis,  and  turned  his  at- 
tention to  teaching.  After  teaching  for  about  eighteen 
months  in  (Jour land  he  returned  to  Iliga,  where  he  be- 


came a friend  of  John  Christopher,  son  of  a rich  mer- 
chant named  Berens,  at  whose  bouse  he  met  all  the  ce- 
lebrities of  the  day,  and  for  whom,  some  years  after- 
wards, he  made  a journey  through  Hamburg,  Bremen, 
and  Amsterdam,  going  so  far  as  London  to  transact  busi- 
ness. Before  he  set  out  on  this  journey,  however,  he 
lost  his  mother,  which  event  deeply  affected  him.  While 
in  London  he  consulted  a distinguished  physician,  hop- 
ing to  have  the  obstruction  in  his  speech  removed;  dis- 
appointed in  that  hope,  he  spent  some  months  in  dissi- 
pation; and  then,  deep  in  debt,  and  disheartened,  he 
retired  to  an  obscure  part  of  London,  procured  a Bible, 
and  applied  himself  diligently  to  its  study.  His  eyes 
were  opened,  and  he  beheld  his  past  life  in  its  true  col- 
ors, of  which  he  gives  evidence  in  his  Gedanken  iiber 
meinen  Lebenslauf  (Thoughts  on  my  Life).  He  then 
returned  to  Riga,  where  he  resided  with  liis  friend  Be- 
rens until  family  circumstances  led  to  an  estrangement 
between  them,  and  in  1759  he  returned  to  his  parents’ 
house.  There  he  wrote  his  Sokratische  Denkicurdigkei- 
ten,  which  were  severely  criticised  at  their  first  appear- 
ance by  the  majority  of  the  literati  of  the  day,  but  which 
gained  him  the  esteem  and  respect  of  such  men  as  Clau- 
dius, Herder,  and  Moser,  to  which  we  must  afterwards 
add  Lavater,  Jacobi,  and  Goethe.  His  writings  did  not 
suffice  for  his  support,  and  he  had  to  take  other  employ- 
ment,first  as  co] lyist,  afterwards  as  clerk  in  a public  office. 
On  the  slender  income  derived  from  these  two  sources 
Hamann  married  in. 1763;  but,  unfortunately,  this  mar- 
riage cost  him  many  of  his  friends,  and  shortly  afterwards 
he  lost  his  situation.  In  1754  he  took  a journey  to  Switz- 
erland in  the  hope  of  meeting  his  friend  Moser,  who  was 
to  obtain  him  employment ; but,  not  meeting  with  him, 
we  next  find  him  again  filling  a small  subaltern  posi- 
tion. In  1767,  his  father  having  died,  he  inherited  some 
property;  but  having  at  the  same  time  to  assume  the 
charge  of  an  infirm  brother,  his  worldly  position  was  not 
much  improved  thereby.  Shortly  afterwards,  however, 
he  obtained  another  situation,  and  in  1777  was  appoint- 
ed to  a good- position  in  the  custom-house.  From  that 
period  date  his  finest  epistolary  and  miscellaneous  writ- 
ings, among  which  we  find  his  admirable  Golgotha  and 
Scheb/imini — “Seat  thee  at  my  right.”  His  prospects 
now  brightened ; one  of  his  admirers,  Francis  Buchliolz, 
offered  him  a handsome  fortune,  with  $1000  towards  the 
education  of  each  ef  his  four  children,  on  the  condition 
of  his  adopting  him.  The  well-known  princess  Galit- 
zin  having  in  1784  become  acquainted  with  his  writ- 
ings, was  brought  over  by  them  to  a positive  Christian 
belief.  In  1787  he  came  to  Munster  with  his  adopted 
son  Buchliolz,  and  became  acquainted  with  the  princess ; 
from  thence  be  went  to  Pempelfort  to  the  philosopher 
Jacobi,  with  whom  he  remained  a short  time.  He  in- 
tended to  return  there  once  more,  but  was  prevented  by 
his  death,  which  occurred  on  the  20tli  of  June,  1788.  He 
was,  by  order  of  the  princess  Galitzin,  interred  in  her 
garden,  from  whence,  in  1851,  his  remains  were  trans- 
om d tu  the  cathedral  at  Munster. 

I Among  the  great  men  of  his  country,  Hamann  is  wor- 
thy of  a place  alongside  of  Copernicus,  Kant,  Herder, 
and  kindred  intellects.  Although  he  cannot  be  called 
a classical  German  writer — his  weird,  irregular  style  for- 
bids it — yet  can  he  be  classed  among  the  patriarchs  of 
the  modern  school,  the  uniting  link  between  the  old  and 
the  new  German  literatures.  “ Hamann  is  one  of  those 
men  of  whom  it  is  difficult  to  give  an  estimate  correct 
and  satisfactory  in  all  respects.  Our  estimation  of  his 
character  cannot  be  blended  with  our  general  opinion 
of  the  age.  as  may  be  done  with  many  other  men,  be- 
cause he  stood  rugged  and  alone,  like  a rocky  island  in 
the  midst  of  the  waves  of  the  surrounding  ocean.  As 
we  cannot  wholly  praise  or  blame  that  age,  we  shall  not 
admire,  much  less  censure,  all  in  Hamann”  (llagenbach, 
G erman  nationalism,  t r.  1 >y  Gage,  p.  268).  ] 1 erder  says : 
“ lhe  kernel  of  1 Iamann’s  writings  contains  many  germs 
of  great  truths,  as  well  as  new  observations,  and  an  evi- 
dence of  remarkable  erudition;  the  shell  thereof  is  a 


HAMATH 


45 


HAMATH 


laboriously  woven  web  of  pithy  expressions,  of  hints, 
ami  flowers  of  rhetoric.”  “Ilis  understanding,”  says  F. 
II.  Jacobi,  “was  penetrating  like  lightning,  and  his  soul 
was  of  more  than  natural  greatness.”  Most  of  his  writ- 
ings are  collected  in  Roth’s  edition  of  his  works  (Berlin, 
1 821—43,  8 vols.).  See  A.  W.  Muller’s  work,  entitled 
J.  (J.  Ilamann,  Cliristliche  fiekenntmsse  und  Zeugmas? 
(Minister,  182(5).  — Herzog,  Reul-EncyTdopadie,  v,  48(3; 
Biographic  r.  ./ok.  Geo.  Ilamann,  by  Charles  Carvacchi 
(Minister,  1855);  Hegel,  Werke,  xvii,  88;  Vilmar,  Ge- 
schichte  dev  deutschen  Literatur;  Gildemeister,  Hamaim's 
Lehen  und  Schriften  (1864-6,4  vols.);  Saintes,  History 
of  Rationalism,  ch.  viii. 

Ha'math  (Heb.  Chamath fortress ; Sept. 
'E gad,  AipdS,  and  'Hga'j),  a large  and  important  city, 
capital  of  one  of  the  smaller  kingdoms  of  Syria,  of  the 
same  name,  on  tlie  Orontes,  at  the  northern  boundary  of 
the  Holy  Land.  Thus  it  is  said  (Numb,  xiii,  21 ) that  the 
spies  “went. up  and  searched  the  land,  from  the  wilder- 
ness of  Zin  unto  Rehob,  as  men  come  to  Hamath.”  Ge- 
senius  is  probably  right  in  deriving  the  word  from  the 
Arabic  root  Chama,  “to  defend;”  with  this  agrees  the 
modern  name  of  the  city  Hamah.  The  city  was  at  the 
foot  of  llermon  (Josh,  xiii,  5;  Jiulg.  iii,  8),  "towards  Da- 
mascus (Zcch.  ix,  2;  Jer.  xlix,  20;  Ezek.  xlvii,  16). 
The  kingdom  of  Hamath,  or,  at  least,  the  southern  or 
central  parts  of  it,  appear  to  have  nearly  corresponded 
with  what  was  afterwards  denominated  Cale-Syria  (q. 

v. ).  If  is  more  fully  called  Ilamath  the  Great  in  Amos 

vi,  2,  or  ILuiath-Zoisaii  in  2-  Chron.  viii,  3.  The  coun- 
try or  district  around  is  called  “ the  land  of  Hamath”  (2 
Kings  xxiii,  33;  xxv,  21). 

Ilamath  is  one  of  the  oldest  cities  in  the  world.  We 
read  in  Gen.  x,  18  that  the  youngest  or  last  son  of  Ca- 
naan was  the  “ Hamathite”  (q.  v.) — apparently  so  called 
because  he  and  his  family  founded  and  colonized  Ha- 
math. It  was  a place  of  note,  and  the  capital  of  a prin- 
cipality, when  the  Israelites  conquered  Palestine ; and 
its  name  is  mentioned  in  almost  every  passage  in  which 
the  northern  border  of  Canaan  is  defined  (Numb,  xiii, 
22;  xxxiv,  8;  1 Kings  viii,  65;  2 Kings  xiv,  25,  etc.). 
Toi  was  king  of  Ilamath  at  the  time  when  David  con- 
quered the  Syrians  of  Zobah,  and  it  appears  that  he 
had  reason  to  rejoice  in  the  humiliation  of  a dangerous 
neighbor,  as  he  sent  his  own  son  Joram  to  congratulate 
the  victor  (2  Sam.  viii,  0,  10),  and  (apparently)  to  put 
Hamath  under  his  protection.  Ilamath  was  conquered 
by  Solomon  (2  Chron.  viii,  8),  and  its  whole  territory 
appears  to  have  remained  subject  to  the  Israelites  dur- 
ing his  prosperous  reign  (ver.  4-6).  The  “store-cities” 
which  Solomon  “built  in  Hamath”  (2  Chron.  viii,  4) 
were  perhaps  for  staples  of  trade,  the  importance  of  the 
Orontes  valley  as  a line  of  traffic  always  being  great. 
On  the  death  of  Solomon  and  the  separation  of  the  two 
kingdoms,  Hamath  seems  to  have  regained  its  indepen- 
dence. In  the  Assyrian  inscriptions  of  the  time  of  Aliab 
(B.C.  900)  it  appears  as  a separate  power,  in  alliance 
with  the  Syrians  of  Damascus,  the  Ilittites,  and  the 
Phoenicians.  About  three  quarters  of  a century  later 
Jeroboam  the  second  “recovered  Ilamath”  (2  Kings 
xiv,  28) ; he  seems  to  have  dismantled  the  place,  whence 
the  prophet  Amos,  who  wrote  in  his- reign  (Amos  i,  1), 
couples  “Hamath  the  Great”  with  Gath,  as  an  instance 
of  desolation  (ib.  vi,  2).  At -this  period  the  kingdom  of 
Hamath  included  the  valley  of  the  Orontes,  from  the 
source  of  that  river  to  near  Antioch  (2  Kings  xxiii,  38; 
xxv,  21).  It  bordered  Damascus  on  the  south,  Zobah 
on  the  east  and  north,  and  Phoenicia  on  the  west  (1 
Chron.  xviii,  3;  Ezek.  xlvii,  17 ; xlviii,  1;  Zech.  ix,  2). 
In  the  time  of  Hezekiah,  the  town,  along  with  its  terri- 
tory, was  conquered  by  the  Assyrians  (2  Kings  xvii,  24 ; 
xviii,  34;  xix,  13 ; Isa.  x,  9 ; xi,  11),  and  afterwards  by 
the  Chaldieans  (Jer.  xxxix,  2,  5).  It  is  mentioned  on 
the  cuneiform  inscriptions  (q.v.).  It  must  have  been 
then  a large  and  influential  kingdom,  for  Amos  speaks 
emphatically  of  “ Hamath  the  Great”  (vi,  2) ; and  when 


Rabshakeh,  the  Assyrian  general,  endeavored  to  terrify 
king  Hezekiah  into  unconditional  surrender,  he  said, 
“Have  the  gods  of  the  nations  delivered  them  which 
my  fathers  have  destroyed,  as  Gozan,  and  Haran,  and 
RezephV  Where  is  the  king  of  Hamath,  and  the  king 
of  Arphad,  and  the  king  of  the  city  of  Sepharvaim,  Ilo- 
na, and  IvahV”  (Isa.  xxxvii,  12-14;  2 Kings  xviii,  34 
sq.).  See  Asiiijia.  The  frequent  use  of  the  phrase, 
“ the  entering  in  of  Ilamath,”  also  shows  that  this  king- 
dom was  the  most  important  in  Northern  Syria  (Judg. 
iii,  3).  Hamath  remained  under  the  Assyrian  rule  till 
the  time  of  Alexander  the  Great,  when  it  fell  into  the 
hands  of  the  Greeks.  The  Greeks  introduced  their  no- 
ble language  as  well  as  their  government  into  Syria, 
and  they  even  gave  Greek  names  to  some  of  the  old 
cities;  among  these  was  Hamath,  which  was  called  Epi- 
phania  (’ Em<l)dvua ),  in  honor  of  Antiochus  Epiphancs 
(Cyril,  Comment,  ad  A mos ). 

This  change  of  name  gave  rise  to  considerable  doubts 
and  difficulties  among  geographers  regarding  the  iden- 
tity of  Hamath.  Jerome  affirms  that  there  were  two 
cities  of  that  name — (treat  Hamath,  identical  with  An- 
tioch, and  another  Ilamath  called  Epipliania  (Comment, 
ad  Amos,  vi).  The  Targums  in  Numb,  xiii,  22  render 
Hamath  Antulia  (Reland,  Polecat,  p.  120).  Eusebius 
calls  it  “a  city  of  Damascus,”  and  affirms  that  it  is  not 
the  same  as  Epipliania;  but  Jerome  states,  after  a care- 
ful investigation,  “reperi  yEmath  urbem  Coelcs  Syria? 
appellari,  quae  uunc  Graeco  sermone  Epipliania  dicitur” 
(Onomast.  s.  v.  yEmath  and  Ematli).  Theodoret  says 
that  Great  Ilamath  was  Emesa,  and  the  other  Ilamath 
Epiphania  ( Comment . ad  Jerem.  iv).  Josephus  is  more 
accurate  when  he  tells  us  that  Hamath  “ was  still  called 
in  his  day  by  the  inhabitants  ’ApaSni,  although  the 
Macedonians  called  it  Epiphania”  {Ant.  i,  6,  2).  There 
is  reason  to  believe  that  the  ancient  name  Ilamath  was 
always  retained  and  used  by  the  Aramaic-speaking  pop- 
ulation; and,  therefore,  when  Greek  power  declined,  and 
the  Greek  language  was  forgotten,  the  ancient  name  in 
its  Arabic  form  Hamah  became  universal  (so  iTCPl  in 
Ezek.  xlvii,  16,  first  occurrence).  There  is  no  ground 
whatever  for  Reland’s  theory  (Palccst.  p.  121)  that  the 
Ilamath  spoken  of  in  connection  with  the  northern  bor- 
der of  Palestine  was  not  Epiphania,  but  some  other  city 
much  further  south.  The  identification  of  Riblah  and 
Zedad  places  the  true  site  of  Ilamath  beyond  the  possi- 
bility of  doubt  (Porter,  Damascus,  ii,  355,  354). 

Epiphania  remained  a flourishing  city  during  the 
Roman  rule  in  Syria  (Ptolemy,  v,  15;  Plinv,  Hist.  Xat. 
v,  19).  It  early  became,  and  still  continues,  the  seat  of 
a bishop  of  the  Eastern  Church  ( Caroli  a son.  Paulo, 
Geogr.  Sac.  p.  288).  It  was  taken  by  the  Mohamme- 
dans soon  after  Damascus.  On  the  death  of  the  great 
Saladin,  Hamath  was  ruled  for  a long  period  by  his  de- 
scendants, the  Eivubites.  Abulfeda,  the  celebrated  Arab 
historian  and  geographer  of  the  14tli  century, was  a mem- 
ber of  this  family  and  ruler  of  Hamah  (Boliadin,  Vita 
Saladini ; Schulten’s  Index  Gtographicus,  s.  v.  Ilamata). 
He  correctly  states  {Tab.  Syria,  p.  108)  that  this  city  is 
mentioned  in  the  books  of  the  Israelites,  lie  adds:  “It 
is  reckoned  one  of  the  most  pleasant  towns  of  Syria. 
The  Orontes  flows  round  the  greater  part  of  the  city  on 
the  east  and  north.  It  boasts  a lofty  and  well-built  cit- 
adel. Within  the  town  are  many  dams  and  water-ma- 
chines, by  means  of  which  the  water  is  led  off  by  canals 
to  irrigate  the  gardens  and  supply  private  houses.  It 
is  remarked  of  this  city  and  of  Schiazar  that  they 
abound  more  in  water-machines  than  any  other  cities 
in  Syria.” 

This  description  still,  in  a great  degree,  applies.  Ha- 
math is  a picturesque  town,  of  considerable  circumfer- 
ence, and  with  wide  and  convenient  streets.  In  Burck- 
hardt’s  time  the  attached  district  contained  120  inhab- 
ited villages,  and  70  or  80  that  lay  waste.  It  is  now  a 
town  of  80,000  inhabitants,  of  whom  about  2500  are 
Greek  Christians,  a few  .Syrians,  some  Jews,  and  the 


iiamatii 


4G 


HAMATH 


Map  of  the  Vicinity  of  Ilamath. 


rest  Moslems.  It  is  beautifully  situated  in  the  narrow 
mid  rich  valley  of  the  Orontes,  thirty-two  miles  north 
of  Kmosa.  and  thirty-six  south  of  the  ruins  of  Assamca 
(.1 iihmiiri  ftinerarinm , edit.  Wesscling,  p.  188).  pour 
hril-cs  span  the  rapid  river,  and  a number  cf  huge 
wheels  turned  hv  the  current,  like  those  at  Verona, raise 
the  water  into  rude  aqueducts,  which  convey  it  to  the 
houses  and  mosques.  There  are  no  remains  of  antiquity 
now  visible.  The  mound  on  which  the  castle  stood  is 
in  the  centre  o|  t lie  city,  hut  every  trace  of  the  castle 
itself  has  disappeared.  The  houses  are  built  of  .sun-dried 
bricks  anil  timber.  Though  plain  and  poor  ext  'rnallv. 
some  of  them  have  splendid  interiors.  They  are  built 
on  the  rising  hanks  of  the  Orontes,  and  on  both  sides  of 
it,  the  bottom  level  being  planted  with  fruit-trees,  which 
t >tmsh  in  the  utmost  luxuriance.  The  wcst-rn  part  of 
the  district  forms  the  granary  of  Northern  Syria,  though 
the  harvest  never  yields  more  than  a tenfold  return, 
cnietly  on  account  of  the  immense  numbers  of  mice 
which  sometimes  completely  destroy  the  crops.  The 
inhabitants  carry  on  a considerable  trade  in  silks  and 
w ><>llen  and  cotton  stnfTs  with  the  Bcdawin.  A num- 
vr  of  noble  but  decayed  Moslem  families  reside  in  Ha- 
mah, attracted  thither  by  its  beauty,  salubrity,  and 


I cheapness  (Pocoeke,  Travels , 11,  pt.  1,  p.  14.5  sq. ; Burek- 
| hardt.  Travels  in  /Syria,  p.  146  sq.;  Handbook  for  Syria 
• and  Palestine, i\,G'20;  Richter,  W/dlfahrten,  p.  231 ; eomp. 
Rosenm  idler’s  Bib.  Geoyr.  ii,  243-246;  Biblioth.  Sacra , 
1848,  p.  680  sq.;  Robinson’s  lies,  new  ed.  iii,  551,  568). 

“ The  entrance  of  Hamath,”  or  “ entering  into  Ha- 
math" (P^n  5VQ ; Sept.  ei(T7roptvofih'm'  tig  AifiaSr , 
Vnlg.  introUum  Emath),  is  a phrase  often  used  in  the 
O.  T.  as  a geographical  name.  It  is  of  considerable  im- 
portance to  identify  it,  as  it  is  one  of  the  chief  land- 
marks on  the  northern  border  of  the  land  of  Israel. 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  sacred  writers  apply  the 
phrase  to  some  well-known  “pass”  or  “opening”  into 
the  kingdom  of  Hamath  (Numb,  xxxiv,  8 ; Josh,  xiii, 
5).  The  kingdom  of  Hamath  embraced  the  great  plain 
lying  along  both  banks  of  the  Orontes,  from  the  foun- 
tain near  Riblali  on  the  south  to  Apamea  on  the  north, 
and  from  Lebanon  on  the  west  to  the  desert  on  the  east. 
To  this  plain  there  are  two  remarkable  “ entrances” — 
one  from  the  south,  through  the  valley  of  Ccele-Svria, 
between  the  parallel  ranges  of  Lebanon  and  Anti-Leba- 
non ; t He  other  from  the  west,  between  the  northern  end 
of  Lebanon  and  the  Nusairiyeh  Mountains.  The  former 
is  the  natural  “entrance”  from  Central  Palestine,  the 
latter  from  the  sea-coast.  The  former  is  bn  the  extreme 
south  of  the  kingdom  of  Hamath,  the  latter  on  its  west- 
ern border. 

Until  within  the  last  few  years  sacred  geographers 
have  almost  universally  maintained  that  the  southern 
opening  is  the  “ entrance  of  Hamath.”  Reland  supposed 
that  the  entrance  described  in  Numb,  xxxiv,  8,  10,  did 
I not  extend  further  north  than  the  parallel  of  Si  don. 
Consequently,  he  holds  that  the  southern  extremity  of 
the  valley  of  Coele-Svria,  at  the  base  of  llermon,  is  the 
“entrance”  of  Ilamath  (Paleestina,  p.  118  sq.).  Kitto 
set  forth  this  view  in  greater  detail  ( Pictorial  Bible) ; 
and  lie  would  identify  the  “entrance  of  Hamath”  with 
the  expression  used  in  Numb,  xiii,  21,  “as  men  come  to 
Hamath.”  Of  late,  however,  some  writers  regard  the 
latter  as  only  intended  to  define  the  position  of  Beth-re- 
liob,  which  was  situated  on  the  road  leading  from  Ccn- 
[ tral  Palestine  to  Ilamath — “ as  men  come  to  Hamath  ;” 
j that  is,  in  the  great  valley  of  Ccele-Syria.  Van  de  Velde 
appears  to  locate  the  “entrance  of  Hamath”  at  the  north- 
ern end  of  the  valley  of  Coele-Syria  ( Travels , ii,  470); 

| and  Stanley  adopts  the  same  view  ( Sinai  and  Palest,  p. 
390).  Dr.  Keith  would  place  the  “ entrance  of  Hamath” 
at  that  sublime  gorge  through  which  the  Orontes  flows 
from  Antioch  to  the  sea  ( Land  of  Israel,  p.  112  sq.).  A 
careful  survey  of  the  whole  region,  and  a study  of  the 
passages  of  Scripture  on  the  spot,  however,  leads  Porter 
to  conclude  that  the  “ entrance  of  Ilamath”  must  be  the 
opening  towards  the  west,  between  Lebanon  and  the 
Nusairiyeh  Mountains.  The  reasons  are  as  follow:  1. 
That  opening  forms  a distinct  and  natural  northern 
I boundary  for  the  land  of  Israel,  sueh  as  is  evidently  re- 
quired by  the  following  passages:  1 Kings  viii,  65;  2 
livings  xiv,  25;  1 Chron.  xiii,  5;  Amos  vi,  14.  2.  The 

“entrance  of  Hamath”  is  spoken  of  as  being  from  the 
' western  border  or  sea-board ; for  Moses  says,  after  de- 
scribing the  western  border,  “This  shall  be  your  north 
border,  from  the  great  sea  ye  shall  point  out  for  you 
Mount  Hor;  from  Mount  Hor  ye  shall  point  out  unto 
the  entrance  of  Ilamath”  (Numb,  xxxiv,  7,  8).  Com- 
pare this  with  Ezek.  xlvii,  20,  “the  west  side  shall  be 
the  great  sea  from  the  (southern)  border,  till  a man  come 
over  against  Hamath and  ver.  16,  where  the  “way  of 
llethlon  as  men  go  to  Zedad”  is  mentioned,  and  is  man- 
ifestly identical  with  the  “entrance  of  Hamath,”  and 
can  be  none  other  than  the  opening  here  alluded  to.  3. 
The  “entrance  of  Hamath”  must  have  been  to  the  north 
of  the  entire  ridges  of  Lebanon  and  Anti-Lebanon  (Josh, 
xiii,  5;  Jndg.  iii,  3);  but  the  opening  from  Coele-Syria 
into  the  plain  of  Ilamath  is  not  so.  4.  The  territory 
of  Ilamath  was  included  in  the  “Promised  Land,”  as 
described  both  by  Moses  and  Ezekiel  (Numb,  xxxiv,  8- 
11;  Ezek.  xlvii,  15-20;  xlviii,  1).  The  “entrance  of 


HAMATHITE 


47 


HAMILTON 


Hamath”  is  one  of  the  marks  of  its  northern  border;  but 
the  opening  from  Coele-Syria  is  on  the  extreme  south 
of  the  territory  of  Hamath,  ami  could  not,  therefore,  be 
identical  with  the  “entrance  of  Hamath.”  5.  The  “ en- 
trance to  Hamath”  was  on  the  eastern  border  of  Pales- 
tine, but  north  of  Rihleih  (Numb,  xxxiv,  10,  11),  which 
is  still  extant  between  Hums  and  the  northern  point  of 
Anti-Lebanon.  See  Riblaii.  6.  This  position  agrees 
with  those  of  the  other  names  associated  on  the  north- 
erly and  easterly  boundaries,  e.  g.  Mount  llor,  Hazar- 
Enan,  etc.  (see  Porter’s  Damascus,  ii,  354  sq. ; also  Rob- 
inson, Biblical  Res.  iii,  5G8). — lvitto,  s.  v.  These  argu- 
ments, however,  will  be  found,  on  a closer  inspection,  to 
be  incorrect  (sec  Keil  and  Delitzsch,  Comment,  on  Pen- 
tat.  iii,  255  sq.).  The  only  real  force  in  any  of  them 
is  that  derived  from  the  supposed  identity  of  Zedad  (q. 
v.)  and  Siphron  (q.  v.) ; and  this  is  counterbalanced  by 
the  facts  (1)  that  this  district  never  was  actually  occu- 
pied by  the  Israelites,  and  (2)  that  the  more  definite 
description  of  the  boundary  of  Asher  and  Naphtali  in 
Josh,  xix,  24-39  does  not  extend  so  far  to  the  north. 
Hence  we  incline  to  the  older  views  on  this  question. 
See  Tribe. 

Ha'mathite  (Hebrew  Chamathi',  with  the  article 
•’rrnfl ; Sept.  6 ’A/ictSt),  a designation  (Gen.  x,  18 ; 1 
Chron.  i,  10)  of  the  last  named  of  the  families  descended 
from  Canaan  (q.  v.) ; doubtless  as  having  settled  (found- 
ed) the  city  Hamath  (q.  v.).  The  llamathites  were 
thus  a Ilamitic  race,  but  there  is  no  reason  to  suppose 
with  Kenrick  ( Phoenicia , p.  00)  that  they  were  ever  in 
any  sense  Phoenicians.  We  must  regard  them  as  close- 
ly akin  to  the  Hittites  (q.  v.),  on  whom  they  bordered, 
and  with  whom  they  were  generally  in  alliance.  See 
Cana  anite. 

Ha'math-Zo'bah  (Ileb .Chamath'  Tsobah',  P’cn 
11212:,  i.  e.  Hamath  of  Zobah  ; Sept.  AiftaSr  Eiofid  v.  r. 
Raioiofid,  Yulg.  Emath  Subei),  a place  on  the  borders  of 
Palestine,  said  to  have  been  attacked  and  conquered  by 
Solomon  (2  Chron.  viii,  3).  It  has  been  conjectured  to 
be  the  same  as  Hamath  (q.  v.),  here  regarded  as  in- 
cluded in  Aram*Zobah — a geographical  expression  which 
has  usually  a narrower  meaning.  The  conjunction  of 
the  two  names  here  probably  indicates  nothing  more 
than  that  the  whole  country  round  Hamath  was  brought 
by  Solomon  under  the  power  of  Judah.  The  possessions 
of  David  extended  to  Hamath,  and  included  Zobah  (1 
Chron.  xviii,  3),  and  Solomon  probably  added  Hamath 
also  to  his  empire;  certain  it  is  that  he  had  possessions 
in  that  district,  and  that  part  of  it,  at  least, was  included 
in  his  dominion  (1  Kings  ix,  19).  See  Zobah. 

Hambroeck,  Anton,  a Protestant  missionary,  sur- 
named  the  “Dutch  Regulus,”  was  born  in  the  early  part 
of  the  17th  century.  He  went  as  missionary  to  the 
East  Indies,  and  settled  in  the  island  of  Formosa,  then 
the  most  important  establishment  of  the  Dutch  in  the 
China  Sea.  He  converted  a large  number  of  natives, 
and  the  mission  was  prospering,  when  the  celebrated 
Chinese  pirate  Coxinga,  driven  away  by  the  Tartars, 
landed  in  Formosa,  and  set  siege  to  Tai-Ouan  with  an 
army  of  25,000  men,  April  30,  1661.  Hambroeck,  his 
wife,  and  two  of  his  children,  were  made  prisoners,  and 
the  former  was  sent  by  Coxinga  as  envoy  to  the  com- 
mander of  the  town,  Frederick  Covet,  to  advise  him  to 
surrender.  Instead  of  this,  he  advised  him  to  defend 
the  city  to  the  last,  and  then  returned  to  the  camp  of 
Coxinga,  notwithstanding  the  remonstrances  of  Coyet, 
and  the  prayers  of  his  two  daughters,  still  in  Tai-Ouan, 
saying  that  he  “would  not  permit  heathen  to  say  that 
the  fear  of  death  had  induced  a Christian  to  violate  his 
oath.”  Coxinga,  enraged  at  his  courage,  caused  him  to 
be  beheaded  on  his  return  (in  1GG1),  together  with  the 
other  Dutch  prisoners,  some  500  in  number.  Coyet  was 
nevertheless  obliged  to  capitulate  in  Jan.  1662.  See  Du 
Bois,  l des  des  Gouremeurs  Uollamleiis  (La  Have,  1763, 

4 to),  p.  210;  Recueil  des  Voyages  qui  out  servi  a I'eta- 
blissement  et  aux  progrez  de  la  Compaynie  des  Indes  ori- 


ent ales  (Rouen,  1725, 10  vols.  8vo),  vol.  x ; Ravnal,  Hist, 
ph  ilosoph iqu e des  deux  hides  (Loud.  1792, 17  vols.  8vo), 
ii,  2G,  2/ ; Iloefcr,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  217, 

Hamelmann,  Hermann,  a German  Protestant  the- 
ologian and  historian,  was  born  at  Osnabriick  in  1525. 
He  was  brought  up  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  and 
became  curate  of  Camern.  Having  subsequently  em- 
braced the  doctrines  of  the  Reformation,  he  lost  his  posi- 
tion, and  went  to  Wittembcrg,  where  he  lived  some  time 
in  intimacy  with  Melancthon.  lie  afterwards  preached 
the  Protestant  doctrines  at  Bielefeld  and  Lcmgo,  and  in 
the  counties  of  Waldeck,  Lippe,  Spiegclbcrg,  and  Pyr- 
mont,  and  in  Holland.  He  acquired  great  reuown  as  a 
preacher,  and  prince  William  of  Orange  called  him  to 
Antwerp,  to  participate  in  the  preparation  of  a new  ec- 
clesiastical discipline.  In  1569  duke  Julius  of  Bruns- 
wick appointed  him  first  superintendent  of  Gandersheim, 
and  his  aid  was  requested  by  the  counts  John  and  Otlio 
of  Oldenburg,  to  introduce  the  Reformation  in  their 
states.  He  spent  the  last  years  of  his  life  in  this  occu- 
pation, acting  as  general  superintendent  of  the  Protes- 
tant churches  of  Oldenburg,  Elmeuliorst,  and  Jever.  I Ie 
died  at  Oldenburg  June  2G,  1595.  His  theological  and 
historical  works  are  valuable  for  the  history  of  the  Refor- 
mation. Among  them  are  De  Traditiouibus  veils  fal- 
sisque  (Frankfort,  1555)  :—De  Euchuristia  et  controver- 
siis  inter  Pontif  cos  et  Lutheranos  hoc  de  articulo  agitatis 
(Frankf.  155G): — De  conjugio  sacerdot.  brevis  interlocuto- 
rhts  a sujjraganeo  et  diacono  (Dortmund,  2d  ed.  1582): — 
Ilistoria  ecclesiastica  renati  Evangel.  (Altenburg,  158G). 
See  Historische  Xachricht  iiber  d.  Leben,  Bedienungen  u. 
Schriften  Ham.  (Quedlinburg,  1720);  Burmann,  Syllog. 
Epist.  i,  430;  Roternmnd,  Gelehiies  Hannover,  vol.  ii,  p. 
xliv  ; Jdcher,  Allg.  Gelehrten  Lexikon , ii,  1340. 

Kamital.  See  IIamutai,. 

Hamilton,  James,  D.D.,  an  eminent  Presbyterian 
minister,  was  born  in  Strathblane,  Scotland,  in  1814. 
He  commenced  his  ministry  at  Abernyte,  Scotland,  and 
after  a short  time  was  called  to  Edinburgh.  In  1841  he 
was  called  to  be  pastor  of  the  National  Scotch  Church, 
Regent’s  Square,  London,  and  was  soon  known  as  one 
of  the  most  eloquent  and  powerful  ministers  of  the  me- 
tropolis. He  died  in  London  November  24, 1867.  Dr. 
Hamilton’s  labors  as  a minister  were  very  successful,  and 
he  was  equally  eminent  in  the  field  of  authorship,  espe- 
cially in  the  field  of  experimental  anti  practical  religion. 
Of  his  Life  in  Earnest,  scores  of  editions  have  appeared 
in  England  (sixty-fifth  thousand,  Lond.  1852)  and  Amer- 
ica; and  his  Mount  of  Olives  (sixty-fifth  thousand,  Lon- 
don, 1853)  has  been  almost  as  widely  circulated.  “He 
was  not  only  one  of  the  most  popular  religious  writers 
of  the  day,  and  master  of  one  of  the  most  fascinating 
styles  in  which  Christian  truth  and  feeling  were  ever 
clothed,  but  he  was  also  no  ordinary  theologian  in  the 
proper  scientific  sense  of  that  term,”  though  he  never 
wrote  any  theological  work  in  scientific  form.  A com- 
plete edition  of  his  works  in  six  volumes  is  now  (18G9) 
publishing  in  London,  as  follows : vol.  i,  Life  in  Ear- 
nest ; Mount,  of  Olives;  A Morning  beside  the  Lake  of 
Galilee;  Happy  Home: — vol.  ii,  Light  for  the  Path; 
Emblems  from  Eden ; The  Parable  of  the  Prodigal  Bon ; 
The  Church  in  the  House ; Dew  of  Hernion ; Thankful- 
ness:— vol.  iii,  The  Royal  Preacher;  Lessons  from  the 
Great  Biography : — vol.  iv,  Xotes  on  Job  and  Proverbs; 
Reviews,  Essays,  and  Fugitive  Pieces : — vols.  v and  vi, 
Selections  from  unpublished  Sermons  and  MSS.  See 
Brit,  and  For.  Evang.  Revieiv , Jan.  1869,  art.  v. 

Hamilton,  Patrick,  the  first  Scotch  reformer, 
nephew  to  James,  earl  of  Arran,  was  born  in  1503,  and 
was  educated  at  St.  Andrew’s,  after  which  lie  went  to 
Germany,  where  he  imbibed  the  opinions  of  Luther,  and 
became  professor  at  Marburg.  On  his  return  home  he  was 
made  abbot  of  Feme,  in  the  shire  of  Ross,  where  he  pro- 
mulgated the  doctriues  of  the  Reformation  with  so  much 
zeal  as  to  excite  the  wrath  of  the  clergy,  who  caused 
him  to  be  apprehended  and  sent  to  Beaton,  archbishop 


48 


HAMILTON 


HAMILTON 

of  Sr.  Andrew's.  After  a long  examination  lie  was  burnt 
at  the  stake, opposite  St. Salvador’s Gollcgc, Mar.  1,152<, 
in  bis  2ltli  vear.  At  the  place  of  execution  he  gave 
his  servant  ’his  garments,  saying,  "These  arc  the  last 
tilings  you  can  receive  of  me,  nor  have  I anything  now 
to  h ave  you  hut  the  example  of  my  death,  which  1 pray 
von  to  hear  in  mind ; for  though  it  he  hitter  to  the  ttesh, 
’and  fearful  before  men,  yet  it  is  the  entrance  into  eter- 
nal life,  which  none  shall  inherit  who  deny  Jesus  Christ 
before  this  wicked  generation.”  The  lire  burning  slow- 
lv.  his  sufferings  were  long  and  dreadful, hut  his  patience 
and  piety  were  only  more  fully  displayed  thereby,  in- 
somuch that  many  were  led  to  inquire  into  his  princi- 
ples, and  to  abjure  the  errors  of  popery.  “The  smoke 
of  Mr.  Patrick  Hamilton,”  said  a papist,  “ infected  as 
many  as  it  blew  upon.”  Ilis  writings  called  Patrick’s 
places  may  he  found  in  Richmond’s  Fathers  of  the  Eng- 
lish < "hurch,  i,  475.  See  Robertson,  History  of  Scotland, 
bk.  ii;  Fox,  Hook  of  Martyrs,  bk.  viii ; Unmet , History^ 
of  the  Reformation,  i.  400  sq.;  Hethcrington,  History  of 
the  Church  of  Scotland,  i,  30  sq. 

Hamilton,  Richard  Winter,  D.D.,  an  English 
Independent  minister,  was  horn  in  London  July  G,  1794, 
ami  died  in  1*4#.  II is  mother  had  been  a member  of 
one  of  John  Wesley’s  societies,  and  is  mentioned  (as 
Miss  lloskcth)  in  Wesley’s  Journal.  At  sixteen  he  en- 
tered the  theological  college  at  lloxton,  and  even  while 
lie  was  a student  his  talent  for  preaching  and  the  re- 
markable exuberance  of  his  style  attracted  great  atten- 
tion. Soon  after  leaving  the  college  (1812  or  1813)  he 
was  called  to  the  charge  of  an  Independent  congrega- 
tion at  Leeds,  and  lie  held  this  position  during  the  re- 
mainder of  his  life,  lie  attained  great  eminence  as  a 
preacher,  and  still  greater  as  a platform  speaker.  With 
great  excellences  lie  combined  grave  defects:  he  was 
deficient  in  taste,  and  his  style  was  often  extravagant 
and  pompous ; hut  there  was  a wide  sweep  in  his 
thoughts,  and  he  was  sometimes  eloquent  even  to  sub- 
limity. During  his  life  lie  was  a diligent  student.  He 
was  president  of  the  Literary  and  Philosophical  Society 
of  Leeds,  ami  contributed  for  it  many  valuable  papers, 
some  of  which  were  published  in  his  Xu  gee.  Lit  era  rice 
( I * H . sm.  Mvo).  1 1 is  other  writings  are,  The  little  Sanc- 
tuary (domestic  prayers  and  offices;  Loud.  1838,  8vo) : 
Sermons,  first  series  (1*37,  #vo;  republished  by  Carlton 
and  Lanahan,  N.  York,  1XG9);  second  scries,  184(5,  8vo: 
— The  Institutions  of  popular  Education  (2d  ed.  1846, 
post  Wvo) : — The  revealed  Doctrine  of  Rewards  and  Pun- 
ishments (Loud.  1847,  Hvo;  N.  Y.,  Carlton  and  Lanahan, 
l *G.i,  12mo) Horen  et  Vindicim  Sabbat icee  (1848, 12mo) : 
Mi  •sums,  their  Authority , Scope,  and  Encouragement,  a 
prize  essay,  second  after  Harris’s  Mammon  (2d  ed.  18 16, 
post  *vo) : Pastoral  Appeals  oh  Personal,  Domestic, 
and  Social  Deration  (2d  ed.  1*48;  also  Carlton  and  Lan- 
ahan, X.  ^ ork,  1*159,  ]2mo) ; besides  occasional  sermons, 
etc.  There  is  a poor  biography  of  him  by  Stmvcll 
<1*50.  *Vn).  (J.B.L.) 

Hamilton,  Samuel,  a Methodist  Episcopal  min- 
ister, was  born  in  Moiiongaliela  Co.,  Ya.,  Dee.  17,1791, 
and  removed  to  Ohio  in  1*0(5;  was  converted  in  1*12; 
entered  the  Ohio  Conference  in  1*15;  and  died  May  4* 
1*53.  1 Ic  was  a pioneer  of  Western  Methodism,  and  a 

widely  known  and  excellent  minister.  As  a preacher, 
prcMiiiug  < l.lcr,  and  delegate  to  General  Conference,  he 
was  in  all  respects  “a  workman  that  needed  not  to  be 
ashamed.”  lie  was  “shrewd,  sarcastic',  and  eloquent,” 
and  his  labors  were  abundantly  successful  among  all 
classes  of  society.— Mia.  of  Conferences,  v,  268;  Wake- 
ley,  Heroes  of  Methodism,  p.  337.  (( }.  L.  '1’.) 

Hamilton,  Sir  William,  a recent  Scotch  philos- 
opher, who  will  probably  be  regarded  as  the  most  subtle 
logician  and  t lie  most  acute  metaphysician  produced  in 
Britain  since  Duns  Scotus  and  William  oft  tekhain.  (lie 
must  not  be  confounded  with  his  scarcely  loss  distin- 
guished contemporary,  Sir  William  Rowan  Hamilton, 
the  Irish  mathematician.)  He  is  included,  and  included 


himself,  among  the  adherents  of  the  Scotch  school  of 
psychology,,  but.  he  is  not  of  them,  having  remodelled, 
interpreted,  expanded,  and  transmuted  tlieir  doctrines 
in  such  a manner  as  to  elevate  their  character  and  en- 
tirely change  their  nature.  Ilis  potent  influence  is  man- 
ifested in  nearly  all  the  current  speculation  of  the  Brit- 
ish Isles.  After  having  created  by  the  labors  of  bis  life 
and  bv  the  fascination  of  bis  example  a new  class  of  in- 
quirers, bis  mind  still  dominates  over  those  who  reject, 
as  well  as  over  those  who  accept  bis  principles. 

Life. — Sir  William  Hamilton  was  born  at  Glasgow 
March  8,17*0,  eight  years  before  the  decease  of  Reid  ; 
be  died  at  Edinburgh  on  May  6,1856.  He  thus  lived 
through  the  whole  of  the  revolution  which  convulsed 
the  governments,  societies,  industries,  and  opinions  of 
modern  Europe,  and  prepared  the  new  eartli  which  is 
yet  to  he  revealed.  He  was  the  son  of  Dr.  William 
Hamilton,  professor  of  anatomy  at  Glasgow;  hut  he  came 
of  a long-descended  line,  lie  claimed  a hereditary  bar- 
onetcy, and  deduced  his  lineage  from  the  ducal  and  al- 
most royal  house  of  Hamilton  and  Chastelherault.  The 
illustration  of  his  birth  was  obscured  by  the  splendor  of 
his  intellectual  career.  He  received  his  early  education 
in  his  native  city.  From  the  University  of  Glasgow 
he  passed  to  Baliol  College,  Oxford,  and  distinguished 
himself  by  his  attainments  in  both  classics  and  mathe- 
matics. Here  he  gained  his  acquaintance  with  the 
writings  of  Aristotle,  which  have  never  been  disregard- 
ed in  this  ancient  seat  of  learning.  In  the  competition 
for  graduating  honors,  he  professed  his  readiness  to  be 
examined  on  most  of  the  recognised  Greek  and  Latin 
classics,  including  many  of  the  works  of  Plato  and  Aris- 
totle, and  of  the  writings  of  the  Neo-Platonists  and  the 
peripatetic  scholiasts.  He  had,  moreover,  already  ob- 
tained some  knowledge  of  Averroes  and  Avicenna;  of 
the  Latin  fathers  and  the  great  schoolmen ; of  Cardan, 
Agricola,  Laurentius  Valla,  and  the  Sealigers;  and  had 
formed  a less  questionable  intimacy  with  Des  Cartes, 
Leibnitz,  and  other  luminaries  of  the  Cartesian  school. 

The  erudition  of  Hamilton  commenced  early,  and  was 
extended  throughout  his  life.  It  was  vast,  curious,  and 
recondite.  It  produces  amazement  by  the  continual  ar- 
ray of  forgotten  names  and  unexplored  authors — omne 
ignotum  pro  mirabili.  But  it  is  needlessly  ostentatious 
and  frequently  deceptive.  It  is  received  without  chal- 
lenge, froni  the  inaccessibility  of  the  authorities  alleged, 
and  the  disinclination  to  verify  citations  from  unfamiliar 
works.  Hare  has  shown  that  the  imputations  against 
Luther  rest  on  invalid  quotations  taken  at  second-hand. 
It  is  alleged  that,  in  his  attack  on  mathematical  studies, 
he  has  employed  mangled  extracts  without  regarding 
the  context.  His  references  to  Aristotle,  and  his  repre- 
sentations of  the  doctrines  of  the  Stagyrite,  are  unrelia- 
ble, being  fragmentary,  distorted,  or  misapprehended, 
from  ignorance  of  the  tenor  of  his  writings.  There  is 
too  much  reason  for  believing  that  Hamilton’s  familiar- 
ity with  “many  a quaint  and  curious  volume  of  forgot- 
ten lore”  was  derived  from  the  diligent  consultation  of 
indexes,  and  the  hasty  appreciation  of  passages  thus  in- 
dicated. 

The  young  philosopher  had  been  designed  for  the  legal 
profession,  lie  removed  to  Edinburgh  in  1812  to  pros- 
ecute liis  juridical  studies,  and  was  called  to  the  Scotch 
bar  in  1813.  In  1820,  on  the  death  of  Dr.  Thomas 
Brown,  he  was  a candidate  for  the  chair  of  moral  phi- 
losophy in  the  University  of  Edinburgh.  John  Wilson, 
the  poet,  and  editor  of  Hlackwood's  Magazine,  was  a 
Tory,  and,  as  such,  was  preferred  by  the  Tory  town 
council,  which  constituted  the  electoral  body.  In  the 
course  of  the  ensuing  year,  the  defeated  candidate,  rich 
in  brains  and  various  accomplishments,  but  poor  in  purse, 
was  appointed  by  the  Faculty  of  Advocates  to  the  chair 
of  history.  His  lectures  on  this  great  branch  of  knowl- 
edge, which  is  philosophy  in  its  concrete  and  dynamical 
aspects,  are  reported  to  have  been  vigorous,  original, 
learned,  and  acute.  This  period  of  Sir  William’s  life 
exemplified  his  indefatigable  industry,  patient  research, 


HAMILTON 


49 


HAMILTON 


versatility  of  talent,  and  zealous  solicitude  for  truth. 
George  Combe  had  attracted  much  attention  in  Edin- 
burgh to  Phrenology — a suspicious  province  of  specula- 
tion lying  along  the  indistinct  boundary  between  intel- 
lectual and  physical  science.  The  profession  of  Hamil- 
ton’s father,  and  liis  own  youthful  associations,  may  have 
cherished  in  him  some  aptitudes  for  anatomical  and 
physiological  inquiries.  He  now  engaged  in  such  pur- 
suits with  the  earnest  pertinacity  that  had  been  display- 
ed by  Des  Cartes  when  tracing  the  mechanism  of  vision 
and  endeavoring  to  discover  in  the  pineal  gland  the 
domicile  of  the  mind.  With  saw  and  scalpel,  and  tape 
and  balance,  he  divided  skulls,  dissected,  measured,  and 
weighed  their  contents.  The  conclusions  thus  reached 
were  communicated  to  the  Koval  Society  of  Edinburgh 
in  1826  and  1827,  and  dissipated  the  pretensions  of 
Phrenology  by  demonstrating  the  falsity  of  the  facts 
alleged  as  its  foundation.  These  researches  also  recti- 
fied some  physiological  misapprehensions,  and  enabled 
Sir  William  to  make  those  delicate  observations  on  the 
composition  and  action  of  the  nerves  which  are  intro- 
duced into  his  notes  on  Reid. 

In  1829,  his  friend,  professor  Napier,  requested  from 
him  a philosophical  article  to  inaugurate  his  literary 
reign  as  editor  of  the  Edinburgh  Review.  The  paper 
furnished  in  compliance  with  his  request  was  the  first, 
and  still  remains  the  most  satisfactory  exposition  of 
Hamilton’s  metaphysical  views.  It  purported  to  be  a 
notice  of  Victor  Cousin’s  eclecticism,  but  it  presented 
in  broken  outlines  “ the  Philosophy  of  the  Conditioned.” 
No  such  tractate  had  appeared  in  Britain  for  centuries. 
It  recalled  the  ancient  glories  of  the  I3th  and  14tli  cen- 
turies. It  united  the  speculative  subtlety  of  Berkeley 
with  the  dialectical  skill  of  the  schoolmen.  It  attract- 
ed universal  admiration  at  home  and  abroad,  and  was 
promptly  translated  into  foreign  languages.  It  placed 
its  author  at  once  among  the  sovereigns  of  thought,  and 
restored  the  British  Isles  to  their  place  among  the  com- 
batants in  the  shadowy  arena  of  abstract  disputation. 
This  remarkable  production  was  followed  by  others 
scarcely  less  remarkable,  and  similarly  distinguished  by 
comprehensive  erudition,  logical  perspicacity,  analytic- 
al precision,  breadth  of  reasoning,  and  profundity  of 
thought.  Thus  his  claims  were  immeasurably  superior 
to  those  of  any  other  aspirant  when  the  professorship 
of  logic  and  metaphysics  in  the  university  became  va- 
cant in  1836.  He  was  not  elected,  however,  to  this  po- 
sition without  hesitancy,  and  the  hesitancy  was  removed 
chiefly  by  the  earnest  testimonials  of  Victor  Cousin,  and 
professor  Brandis,  of  Bonn. 

In  his  new  domain  Sir  William  commenced  the  re- 
habilitation of  logical  studies,  and  the  restoration  of  the 
prince  of  philosophers  to  the  throne  from  which  he  had 
been  removed  by  more  than  two  centimes  of  ignorant 
and  uninquiring  clamor.  So  far,  indeed,  as  originality 
appertains  to  his  own  logical  and  metaphysical  specula- 
tions, it  is  obtained  by  recurrence  to  the  instructions  or 
to  the  hints  of  “the  master  of  the  wise.”  He  held  his 
chair  for  twenty  years,  till  his  death.  To  the  discharge 
of  his  academical  duties  are  due  the  lectures  on  logic  and 
on  metaphysics.  They  afford  a very  imperfect  exhibition 
of  either  his  abilities  or  his  philosophy.  They  were  the 
first-fruits  of  his  sendee,  hurriedly  prepared  to  satisfy 
immediate  requirements,  and  precariously  modified  at 
irregular  times.  They  never  received  final  elaboration 
or  systematic  revision,  and  were  published  posthumous- 
ly from  such  sketches  and  loose  notes  as  had  been  pre- 
served. Throughout  the  period  of  their  recurrent  de- 
livery, their  development  was  restrained  and  distorted 
by  the  traditions,  associations,  and  expectations  of  the 
school.  He  could  not  renounce  allegiance  to  Reid,  or 
proclaim  an  independent  authority,  or  render  liege-hom- 
age to  Aristotle.  Hence  there  is  throughout  his  career 
a continual  effort  to  reconcile  by  ingenious  tours-de- 
force  his  own  more  profound  and  comprehensive  views 
■with  the  narrow,  shallow,  and  timid  utterances  of  the 
common-sense  brotherhood.  There  is  nothing  in  the  I 
IV— D 


history  of  philosophy  more  grotesque,  more  inconclu- 
sive, and  better  calculated  to  mislead,  than  the  arrav  of 
the  hundred  and  six  witnesses  to  the  universality  of 
the  philosophy  of  common  sense.  What  these  depo- 
nents unanimously  attest  is  not  the  truth  of  Reid’s  char- 
acteristic dogmas,  but  the  necessity  of  admitting  inde- 
monstrable principles — a thesis  which  may  be,  and  has 
been  associated  with  many  dissimilar  systems.  ►Sir  Wil- 
liam would  have  been  swift  to  expose  this  fallacy  had 
such  an  ignoratio  elenclii  been  detected  in  any  victim  of 
his  critical  lash. 

Though  the  lectures  of  Sir  William  Hamilton  give 
an  imperfect  idea  of  his  services  and  teaching,  he  effi- 
ciently promoted  the  cause  of  genuine  philosophy  by 
the  spirit  and  breadth  of  his  instructions,  by  his  wonder- 
ful display  of  learning,  by  the  penetration  and  precision 
of  his  distinctions,  by  attracting  earnest  attention  to 
the  highest  walks  of  speculation,  and  by  training  up  a 
generation  of  enthusiastic  inquirers  in  a branch  of  knowl- 
edge which  had  been  misconceived  and  degraded  by 
disregard  of  its  loftiest  developments.  He  was  untiring 
in  encouraging  and  guiding  the  studies  of  his  pupils; 
he  was  exacting  in  his  demands  upon  their  powers;  but 
he  was  remarkably  successful  in  securing  their  confi- 
dence and  their  affection;  and  he  deepened  his  influ- 
ence by  the  affability  of  his  demeanor  and  by  his  im- 
pressive bearing.  “ Sir  William,”  says  one  of  his  re- 
viewers, “enjoyed  physical  advantages  almost  as  un- 
common as  his  intellectual  attainments.  . . . His  frame 
was  large  and  commanding;  his  head  was  cast  in  a 
classic  mould ; his  face  was  handsome  and  expressive ; 
his  voice  possessed  great  compass  and  mellifluous  sweet- 
ness.” With  such  a fortunate  combination  of  natural 
endowments  and  cultivated  acquirements,  he  was  well 
adapted  to  become  the  “ magnus  Apollo"  of  a new  sect 
of  adorers.  System,  however,  was  foreign  to  his  nature : 
the  pursuit  of  truth  was  more  than  truth.  He  never 
evinced  any  desire  to  be  the  founder  of  a school:  he 
may  have  been  conscious  that  such  a desire  would  have 
been  futile,  since  he  built  on  the  substructions  of  Aris- 
totle, or  repainted  with  his  own  colors  and  devices  the 
ruinous  walls  of  the  peripatetic  temple. 

The  years  of  Sir  William’s  scholastic  duty  were  illus- 
trated by  other  and  more  important  productions  than  his 
lectures — productions  which  reveal  more  decisively  the 
depth  of  his  genius,  and  supply  the  best  means  for  ascer- 
taining the  complexion  and  constitution  of  his  philoso- 
phy. It  seems  to  be  expected  of  a Scotch  professor  that 
lie  should  produce  a book  either  as  a title  to  office  or  in 
vindication  of  his  appointment.  In  accordance  with  this 
custom,  if  not  in  compliance  with  it,  Sir  William  signal- 
ized his  induction  into  his  chair  by  an  edition  of  Reid’s 
works,  accompanied  with  observations  and  illustrative 
discussions.  The  manner  in  which  this  task  was  ex- 
ecuted is  characteristic  of  his  habits.  The  notes  were 
written  as  the  text  passed  through  the  press ; the  supple- 
mentary disputations  were  added  some  years  afterwards: 
they  were  never  completed ; the  last  that  he  published 
“breaks  off  in  the  middle,”  like  the  celebrated  canto  of 
Hudibras ; and  the  “ copious  indices  subjoined,”  which 
had  been  announced  in  the  title-page,  remains  an  an- 
nouncement— to  eternity.  Sir  William  has  nowhere 
given  any  systematic  view  of  his  doctrine,  either  in  de- 
tail or  in  summary,  lie  has  left  behind  him  elaborate 
essays  on  a few  cardinal  topics;  many  fragmentary  no- 
tices of  others;  and  numerous  suggestive,  but  undevel- 
oped hints.  His  relics  are  like  the  fossil  remains  of  the 
mighty  monsters  of  remote  geological  periods : here  a 
tibia,  there  a maxilla;  here  a huge  vertebra,  there  a 
ponderous  scapula;  here  a tusk,  there  a claw;  but  no- 
where is  found  the  complete  form,  or  even  the  entire 
skeleton.  Still,  from  the  fragments  preserved,  the  phi- 
losophy of  Hamilton  may  be  reconstructed.  The  in- 
completeness of  his  labors  may  be  ascribed  in  part  to 
the  polemical  character  of  his  procedure ; in  part  to  the 
absence  of  distinct  originality ; in  part  to  the  vast  and 
unmanageable  extent  of  his  information,  to  the  variety 


50 


HAMILTON 


HAMILTON 

of  his  meditations,  and  to  the  fastidiousness  of  his  judg- 
ment, which  sought  unattainable  fulness  and  perfection 
in  all  the  details;  but  much  must  be  attributed  to  a 
more  mournful  cause— to  the  paralysis  which  crushed 
his  strength  and  deprived  him  of  the  use  of  his  right 
hand  for  the  la>t  ten  years  of  his  life,  compelling  him 
to  avail  himself  of  the  assistance  of  his  wife  and  family 
fur  his  correspondence  and  literary  labors. 

During  his  later  years  Sir  William  was  chiefly  occu- 
pied with  the  extension  and  application  of  his  logical  in- 
novations. These  were  expounded  to  his  class  as  early 
as  IN  10,  and  announced  to  the  world  in  1846.  They 
provoked  a bitter  controversy  with  professor  De  Mor- 
gan. It  is  unnecessary  to  enter  into  the  examination 
of  a dispute  in  which  the  parties  are  satisfied  neither 
with  themselves  nor  with  each  other,  and  in  which  the 
language  is  so  tortuous,  rugged,  and  peculiar  as  to  be  al- 
most equally  unintelligible  in  both. 

Some  critics  have  commended  the  style  of  Sir  Wil- 
liam  Hamilton  as  “unequalled  for  conciseness,  precision, , 
and  force” — as  “ a model  of  philosophical  clearness,  con- 
ciseness, and  energy”  (non  cuicuntque  datum  est  habere 
ruisum).  Mr.  De  Morgan  characterized  the  Hamiltonian 
style  as  bombinatts,  whatever  that  may  mean;  and  of 
one  expression  he  says  that  it  is  “hard  to  make  sense  or 
English  of  it.”  The  censure  may  be  applied  to  both  the 
combatants  in  this  unseemly  controversy.  Sir  William’s 
dialect  may  be  clear,  precise,  significant,  when  it  has  been 
mastered ; but  it  is  not  English.  It  is  a concrete  of  his 
own  compounding,  requiring  special  study  just  as  much 
as  any  archaic  patois.  Berkeley  and  llume,  Stewart 
and  Spencer,  have  shown  that  it  is  possible  to  write 
philosophically,  and  yet  maintain  a pure,  transparent, 
natural  English  idiom.  This  Sir  William  rarely  does. 

Writings. — The  published  works  of  Hamilton  embrace 
the.  lectures  on  logic  and  on  metaphysics;  an  edition  of 
Bril,  never  completed;  an  edition  of  the  works  of  I)u- 
g ild  Stewart ; and  a volume  of  Discussions  on  Philosophy 
and  Literature,  Education  and  University  Reform  (1852 ; 
21  edit,  enlarged,  1853;  reprinted  by  Harper  and  Broth- 
ers. X.  York).  There  is  little  evidence  of  any  taste  for 
literature,  properly  so  called,  in  the  volume.  The  only 
essay  connected  even  remotely  with  polite  letters  is  that 
on  the  authorship  of  the  Epistolie  Obscurorum  Virorum, 
which  is,  in  some  respects,  his  most  curious  contribu- 
tion to  periodical  literature.  A wide  chasm  separates 
this  from  the  instructive  and  entertaining  papers  On  the 
Revolutions  oj  Medicine,  and  on  Mathematics  not  Philos- 
ophy. Both  of  these  readily  consort  with  the  laborious 
and  learned  investigation  of  the  history,  condition,  ob- 
jects, and  possible  ameliorations  of  university  educa- 
tion. The  remainder  of  the  “Discussions”  is" devoted 
to  logic  and  metaphysics.  The  former  science  is  illus- 
trated by  the  essay  on  I.oyic.  contributed  to  the  Edin- 
bnryh  Review  in  April,  1833;  and  that  on  Syllogism,  its 
kiwis,  canons,  notations,  etc.,  contained  in  the  appendix. 
The  ii  •culiar  views  of  the  author  are  further  expounded 
in  the  Prospectus  of  an  Essay  on  the  Xew  Analytic  of 
Logical  Forms,  and  in  the  Prize  Essay  of  Thomas  Spen- 
cer Baynes  on  the  same  subject,  to  which  should  be  add- 
ed the  appendix  to  the  lectures  on  logic. 

The  principal  metaphysical  papers  in  the  Discussions 
are  those  on  The  Philosophy  of  the  Conditioned;  on  The 
Philosophy  of  Perception,  and  On  Idealism,  with  t he  ap- 
pendix On  the  Conditions  of  the  Thinkable.  In  the  edi- 
torial labors  on  Beid,  besides  many  important  notes  elu- 
cidating, rectifying,  developing,  or  altering  the  state- 
ments in  the  text,  which  merit  careful  consideration, 
should  be  specially  studied  Note  A,  On  the  Philosophy 
oj  Common  Sense  ; Note  15,  On  Present  at  ire  and  Repre- 
sentative A nou'ledyr ; mid  Note  D , Distinction  of  the  Pri- 
m try  an  I Secondary  Qualities  of  liody,  which  has  an 
intimate  relation  to  the  tlieorv  of  immediate  or  present- 
ative  perception. 

Philosophy.— Ixigie,  metaphysics,  and  ethics  are  com- 
prised under  the  general  designation  of  philosophy, 
i he  last  of  these  divisions  is  untouched  by  Sir  William 


1 Hamilton.  In  the  other  two  he  has  pushed  his  inqni- 
! ries  far  beyond  any  of  his  British  contemporaries,  and 
with  much  more  brilliant  success.  In  both  he  evinced 
signal  acuteness ; in  both  he  rendered  good  service:  and 
in  both  he  deemed  himself  an  inventor  and  reformer, 
and  not  merely  an  innovator. 

The  character  of  his  metaphysical  doctrine  is  mani- 
fested hv  the  designation  which  he  bestowed  upon  it — 
The  Philosophy  of  the  Conditioned.  It  is  critical  m its 
procedure ; it  is  mainly  negative  in  its  results.  In  these 
respects  it  resembles  the  philosophy  of  Kant,  to  which 
it  approximates  in  many  of  its  developments.  It  is  a 
crusade  against  all  theories  reposing  on  the  absolute  and 
the  unconditioned.  It  sets  out  with  affirming  the  es- 
sential relativity  of  all  knowledge;  it  concludes  with 
the  restriction  of  philosophy  to  the  determination  of  the 
conditions  of  thought.  In  this  there  is  nothing  new 
but  the  mode  of  exposition.  It  was  a familiar  aphorism 
of  the  schoolmen,  founded  upon  the  teachings  of  Aristo- 
tle, that  all  thought  was  bounded  by  the  limits  of  the 
thinking  mind — “ o nine  percept um  est  secundum  modum 
percipientis" — “ omne  scitum  est  in  sciente  secundum  mo- 
dum scientis " — “ species  cogniti  est  in  cognoscente."  From 
this  position  Hamilton  deduces  the  invalidity  of  all  con- 
ceptions pretending  to  be  absolute,  and  hence  denies  the 
possibility  of  any  positive  conception  of  the  infinite. 
Herein  he  merely  repeats  Aristotle,  but  with  less  mod- 
eration in  his  doctrine.  This  thesis  has  been  violently 
opposed,  and  usually  misapprehended.  It  was  assailed 
by  Calderwood,  Philosophy  of  the  Inf  hite,  who  confounds 
the  negation  of  the  Infinite  in  thought  with  the  nega- 
tion of  the  infinity  of  God.  It  has  been  accepted  and 
applied  by  Mansel  to  theology  in  his  Limits  of  Religious 
Thought.  The  next  step  is  to  a purely  negative  expo- 
sition of  causality,  as  resulting  from  “mental  impotence" 
to  conceive  an  absolute  commencement.  Sir  William 
recognises  that  this  interpretation  conflicts  with  the  idea 
of  a great  First  Cause,  and  he  propounds  a very  ingeni- 
ous apology  for  his  doctrine.  He  similarly  follows  out 
his  fundamental  tenet  to  other  applications,  and  arrives 
uniformly  at  negative  conclusions. 

The  tenet,  however,  is  not  presented  as  an  axiom,  but 
receives  interpretation,  if  not  demonstration.  It  is  the 
inevitable  consequence  of  the  dualism  of  our  knowledge 
— a thesis  contained  in  Aristotle.  Every  act  of  con- 
sciousness “gives  a knowledge  of  the  ego  in  relation  and 
contrast  to  the  non-ego,  and  a knowledge  of  the  non- 
ego  in  relation  and  contrast  to  the  ego.  The  ego  and 
non-ego  are  thus  given,  in  an  original  synthesis,  as  con- 
joined in  the  unity  of  knowledge,  and  in  an  original 
antithesis,  as  opposed  in  the  contrariety  of  existence.” 
This  “natural  dualism”  is  accepted  by  professor  Ferrier 
as  the  beginning  of  an  antagonistic  scheme  of  philoso- 
phy. With  Hamilton  it  is  made  to  rest  upon  the  basis 
of  immediate  perception,  and  thus  he  is  led  to  the  affir- 
mation of  direct  or  presentative  perception  in  opposition 
to  the  older  theory  of  indirect  or  representative  percep- 
tion. This  brings  him  into  accordance  with  the  school 
of  lleid  — though  Beid  and  his  school  would  scarcely 
have  understood,  and  certainly  could  not  have  appreci- 
ated his  delicate  distinctions;  and  it  must  be  acknowl- 
i edged  that  it  is  a coarse  and  materialistic  conception  of 
species,  images,  and  impressions  which  requires  any 
deadly  opposition  between  presentative  and  representa- 
tive perception.  To  one  cultivating  such  divisions  and 
differences,  the  treatise  of  Bogcr  Bacon,  De  Multiplica- 
tion? Specierum — the  most  marvellous  result  of  mediae- 
val science— would  he  utterly  unintelligible. 

On  Sir  William  Hamilton’s  principles,  the  only  object 
of  philosophy  is  the  determination  of  the  limits  and  re- 
quirements of  thought, or,  as  he  phrases  it, “the  Condi- 
tions of  the  Thinkable.”  On  this  subject  he  has  left  an 
admirable  and  most  suggestive  paper ; but  his  whole 
scheme  of  speculation  is  without  any  basis  for  certainty, 
without  any  witness  ol  “the  Spirit  bearing  witness  to 
our  spirit.”  It  is  thus  built,  upon  the  void;  ami, like  the 
eclecticism  of  Cousin,  and  the  transcendentalism  of  Ho* 


HAMILTON 


51 


HAMILTON 


gel  and  Schelling,  which  it  was  specially  designed  to 
oppose,  it  tends, however  unconsciously,  to  practical  scep- 
ticism. “Such  (QuivavTa  (rviaroiotr),”  says  Sir  Wil- 
liam, “are  the  hints  of  an  undeveloped  philosophy,  which, 
I am  confident,  is  founded  upon  truth.”  Doubtless  this 
philosophy  is  undeveloped,  and  doubtless  it  is  founded 
upon  truth ; but  the  foundation  may  not  be  homogene- 
ous or  sufficient,  and  the  superstructure  may  not  be 
composed  of  the  same  materials  as  the  substruction. 
The  most  dangerous  error  is  that  which  proceeds  from 
mutilated,  distorted,  or  alloyed  truth. 

“The  views  of  Sir  William  Hamilton  are  before  us, 
in  certain  parts,  in  his  own  exposition;”  they  invite 
and  require  rigorous  examination.  “That  they  have 
already  been  much  discussed,  and  have  exerted  a pow- 
erful influence  on  specidation,  is  a good  omen  for  phi- 
losophy. We  have,  especially,  his  treatment  of  three 
great  problems  in  philosophy.  P'irst,  there  is  the  the- 
ory of  the  two  kinds  of  human  knowledge,  Immediate 
and  Mediate.  Secondly,  there  is  a special  application 
of  this  theory  to  the  construction  of  a theory  of  Exter- 
nal Perception.  Thirdly,  there  is  an  exhaustive  system 
of  Metaphysics  Proper,  or  Ontology,  in  his  4 Philosophy 
of  the  Conditioned’  and  ‘Conditions  of  the  Thinkable’ — 
a vast  and  noble  idea,  traced  out  for  us  in  nothing  but  a 
tantalizing  fragment.  Ilis  Logical  system  is  to  be  gath- 
ered from  the  sources  already  mentioned.  They  will 
probably  convey  no  distinct  notion  of  the  system,  unless 
to  readers  who  are  familiar  with  the  German  methods  of 
logical  analysis  since  Kant.  The  leading  points  may  be 
said  to  be  four;  and  it  is  perhaps  possible  to  make  these 
intelligible  very  briefly  to  persons  acquainted  with  the 
outlines  of  the  science  in  its  received  forms.  1.  Hamil- 
ton insists  on  having,  in  ail  propositions  through  com- 
mon terms  which  arc  set  forth  for  logical  scrutiny,  a 
sign  of  quantity  prefixed  to  predicate  as  well  as  to  sub- 
ject. The  point,  though  merely  one  of  form,  is  curi- 
ously suggestive  of  difficulties,  and  hence  of  solutions. 
2.  Instead  of  recognising  only  four  forms  of  propositions, 
the  A,  E,  I,  O of  the  old  logicians,  he  insists  on  admit- 
ting all  the  eight  forms  which  are  possible.  (See 
Thomson  and  Solly.)  3.  He  widens  the  range  of  the 
syllogism  by  admitting  all  moods  which  can  validly  be 
constructed  by  any  combination  of  any  of  his  eight  kinds 
of  propositions.  4.  The  Port -Royal  doctrine  of  the  in- 
verse ratio  of  the  extension  and  comprehension  of  terms 
is  worked  out  by  him  in  reference  to  the  syllogism. 
This  application  of  the  doctrine  has  certainly  not  been 
anticipated  by  any  logician;  and,  when  elaborated  to 
its  results,  it  throws  many  new  lights  on  the  characters 
and  mutual  relations  of  the  syllogistic  figures.”  The 
value  of  these  innovations  has  not  been  definitely  set- 
tled, nor  has  it  been  ascertained  whether  they  were 
overlooked  by  Aristotle,  misapprehended  by  him,  or  de- 
liberately rejected  from  his  Analytics. 

Authorities.  — An  earnest  discussion  of  Hamilton’s 
doctrines  may  be  found  in  the  Methodist  Quarterly  Re- 
view  for  1857 ; a sketch  of  his  metaphysical  views  is 
given  in  the  Princeton  Review  for  1855.  One  of  the 
most  unfortunate  features  in  the  literary  history  of  Sir 
William  was  his  attack  on  the  reputation  of  Luther, 
which  was  fully  answered  by  Hare  in  his  Vindication  rf 
Luther.  Hare  convicts  Hamilton  of  using  second-hand 
knowledge  as  if  he  had  studied  the  original  sources. 
See  X.  Brit.  Rev.  Nov.  1848,  Feb.  1853,  July,  1859;  Re- 
vue des  Deux  Mondes,  April,  185G;  Gentleman's  Maga- 
zine, June,  185G;  North  American  Review , Oct.  1845,  p. 
485-9 ; Jan.  1853,  art.  iii ; British  Quarterly  Review,  xvi, 
47S;  Wight,  Philosophy  of  Sir  William  Hamilton  (N. 
Y.  1855);  Mill,  Examination  of  Sir  William  Hamilton's 
Philosophy  (Lond.  18G5) — reviewed  in  the  IlVsfrnfaster 
Review,  Jan.  18GG,  and  elaborately  answered  by  II.  L. 
Mansel,  The  Philosophy  of  the  Conditioned  (Loud.  18G6) ; 
De  Morgan,  Formal  Logic  (London,  1847) ; Bowen,  A 
Treatise  on  Logic  (Cambridge,  1864).  The  Life  of  Sir 
William  Hamilton,  by  J.  Veitch  (18G9),  which  had  been 
long  expected,  has  been  recently  published.  (G.  F.  H.) 


Hamline,  Licoxidas  Lent,  a bishop  of  the  Meth- 
odist Episcopal  Church,  was  born  in  Burlington,  Conn., 
May  10, 1797.  Ilis  early  education  was  obtained  with 
some  view  to  the  Christian  ministry;  but,  arriving  at 
manhood,  he  studied  law,  and  was  admitted  to  the  bar 
in  Lancaster,  Ohio.  He  married  in  Zanesville,  Ohio,  and 
settled  there  to  practice  his  profession.  The  death  of  a 
little  daughter  in  1828  led  him  to  seriously  consider  his 
own  moral  state,  and  he  joined  the  Methodist  Episcopal 
Church  in  the  autumn  of  1828.  Soon  after  he  was  li- 
censed to  exhort,  then  (18*29)  to  preach.1  In  1832  lie 
was  received  on  trial  in  the  Ohio  Conference,  ami  ap- 
pointed to  Granville  Circuit.  In  1833  he  travelled  Ath- 
ens Circuit,  and  in  1834  and  1835  he  was  stationed  at 
Wesley  Chapel,  Cincinnati.  In  183G  he  was  elected  as- 
sistant editor  of  the  Western  Christian  Advocate,  with 
the  Rev.  Dr.  Charles  Elliott.  When  the  Ladies'  Repos- 
itory was  established  in  January,  1841,  Ilamline  was  as- 
signed to  the  work  of  editing  that  journal.  He  remain- 
ed in  this  position  until,  in  1844,  he  was  elected  one  of 
the  bishops  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church.  This 
office  he  filled  with  great  usefulness  for  eight  years,  when 
ill  health  compelled  him  to  resign  it  to  the  General  Con- 
ference of  1852.  Ilis  name  was  reattached  to  the  list 
of  members  of  the  Ohio  Conference,  and  he  was  granted 
a superannuated  relation.  In  1857  lie  removed  to  Mount 
Pleasant,  Iowa,  his  former  confidential  friendship  with 
Dr.  Elliott,  who  resided  in  that  place,  leading  to  this 
change.  In  an  account  of  his  life  which  bishop  II ani- 
line wrote  for  his  family,  he  thus  refers  to  the  years  from 
1852  to  18C0:  “For  eight  years  I have  been  superannu- 
ated, and  God  has  ‘tried  me  as  silver  is  tried;'  but  he 
lias  often  sweetened  those  trials  by  his  presence  in  a 
marvellous  manner.  And  now  day  by  day  my  fellow- 
ship is  with  the  Father,  and  with  his  son  Jesus  Christ. 
Though  almost  helpless,  and  dependent  on  my  devoted, 
affectionate  wife  for  personal  attentions,  which  her  ex- 
emplary patience  never  wearies  in  bestowing  on  me 
(thanks  be  to  thy  name,  O God,  for  such  a gift !),  yet  I 
am  far  more  contented  and  cheerful  than  in  the  best 
days  of  my  youth.”  He  was  taken  severely  ill  Jan.  25, 
18G7.  On  the  10th  of  February,  having  called  his  fam- 
ily in  to  pray  with  them  once  more,  “ he  uttered  remark- 
able expressions  of  adoration  of  the  Saviour  on  the  throne 
in  special  reference  to  his  humiliation,  crucifixion,  rcs- 
urrection,  ascension,  exaltation,  etc.  He  prayed  for  his 
family,  the  Church,  for  his  own  Conference  (the  Ohio), 
the  missions,  the  country,  the  world.  All  the  forenoon 
he  expressed  much  thankfulness  for  everything.  He 
then  had  occasion  to  drink,  and  his.  painful  thirst  re- 
minded him  of  the  exclamation  on  the  cross  when  the 
Saviour  said,  ‘I  thirst.’  He  then  burst  into  tears,  and 
broke  out  again  in  praise.  He  then  spoke  of  his  pres- 
ent state  as  a fresh  baptism  into  Christ,  into  his  glorious 
name,  and  exclaimed,  ‘ 0 wondrous,  wondrous,  wondrous 
love!'  When  Mrs.  Ilamline  raised  the  window-shade 
at  sunset  he  exclaimed,  ‘O  beautiful  sky!  beautiful 
heaven!’”  He  died  on  the  22d  of  February.  Of  the 
character  and  attainments  of  bishop  Hamline,  Dr.  El- 
liott says,  “My  pen  is  wholly  incompetent  to  draw  out 
in  its  full  extent  an  adequate  portrait  of  his  high  and 
holy  character,  whether  it  regards  his  natural  talents 
or  his  extensive  attainments  , but  especially  the  sanc- 
tity and  purity  of  his  religious  life.  As  a preacher, 
he  was  in  the  first  rank  in  all  respects  that  regard  the 
finished  pulpit  orator.  Ilis  style  as  a writer  would  com- 
pare favorably  with  the  best  writers  in  the  .English 
language.  He  had  no  superior  for  logic,  argument,  or 
oratory.  He  was  the  subject  of  much  bodily  affliction, 
and  yet,  amid  excruciating  pains,  lie  retained  the  lull 
exercise  of  his  intellectual  powers  to  the  very  last  hour 
of  his  life.  The  leading  characteristic  of  him  in  his 
sufferings  was  his  complete  patieuce  and  resignation  to 
the  will  of  God.”  His  principal  writings  (chiefly  ser- 
mons) are  given  in  the  1 1 rorks  of  L.  L.  Ilamline,  D.D., 
edited  by  the  Rev.  F.  G.  Hibbard,  D.D.  (X.  Tork,  18G9, 
8vo). — See  Minutes  of  Conferences,  18GG ; Meth,  Quart. 


H AMM  AI I LEIvOTH  5 

Per.  October,  186G;  Palmer,  Life  ami  Utters  of  Leoni- 
das L.  Humline,  III).  (X.  Y.  IN6G,  12mo). 

Hammahlekoth.  See  SELA-iiAM-YlAitLEKOTii. 

Hamman,  or  rather  Ciiamman  (*,*2n,  only  in  the 
pi  nr.  hamnmnim '),  signifies  images , idols  of  some  kind 
for  idolatrous  worship  (and  so  the  Sept,  and  A,  nig.  un- 
derstand it).  It  is  rendered  “images”  in  Lev.  xxvi, 
Jill;  2 Chron.  xiv,  5;  xxxiv,  7;  Isa.  xvii,  8;  xxvii,  9; 
Ezek.  vi,  4,  0;  but  in  the  margin  almost  invariably 
-sun  images .”  In  these  passages  Hammanim  is  several 
times  joined  with  .1  sfterim — statues  of  Astarte;  while 
from  2 Chron.  xxxiv,  I,  it  appears  further  that  the  Ifam- 
manim  stood  upon  the  altars  of  Baal.  See  Asiikuah  ; 
11a a u Kiinelii,  and  the  Arabic  of  Erpenins,  long  ago 
explained  the  word  by  suns,  images  of  the  sun ; and  both 
this  interpretation  and  the  thing  itself  are  now  clearly 
illustrated  by  ten  Punic  cippi  with  inscriptions,  conse- 
crated to  Baal  Hamman,  i.  e.  to  Baal  the  solar,  Baal 
the  sun.  (See  the  whole  subject,  discussed  in  Gesenins’s 
Thes.  If  eh.  p.  489-491.)  The  form  chamman,  solar,  is 
from  irsn,  chain' malt,  the  sun ; and  the  plural  Hamma- 
nim,  in  the  Old  Testament,  is  put  elliptically  for  Baalim 
Hammanim,  and  is  found  in  the  same  context  as  else- 
where Baalim,  images  of  Baal. — Bastow,  s.  v. 

Ham'math  (I \eb.Chammath',  TEH,  warm  springs; 
Sept.  ’ApieS  v.  r.  [by  incorporation  of  the  following 
name]  ’ilpaZacciKiS,  Yulg.  Emath),  one  of  the  “fenced 
cities”  of  Xaphtali,  mentioned  between  Zer  and  Rak- 
kalh  (Josh,  xix,  33);  generally  thought  to  be  the  hot 
spring  referred  to  by  Josephus  (IFw,  iv,  1, 3)  under  the 
name  Ammniis  ( Appaovt;),  near  Tiberias  (.1  nt.  xviii,  2, 
3) ; which  latter  is,  no  doubt,  the  same  with  the  famous 
warm  baths  still  found  on  the  shore  a little  south  of  Ti- 
berias, and  called  Ilummam  Tuharigeh  (“Bath  of  Tibe- 
rias”) ; properly  Ilammatk - rakkafh  (?  the  Yamim  of 
Gen.  xxxvi,24).  See  Emmaus.  They  have  been  fully- 
described  by  Robinson  ( Researches , iii,  258  sq.:  see  also 
llackett’s  Script.  Illust.  p.  315).  Pliny,  speaking  of  the 
Sea  of  Galilee,  says,  “Ab  Occident e Tiberiade,  aqnis  ca- 
lidis  salubri”  (Hist.  Mat.  v,  15).  Spacious  baths  were 
built  over  the  principal  spring  by  Ibrahim  Pasha;  but, 
like  everything  else  in  Palestine,  they  are  falling  to  ruin. 
Ancient  ruins  are  strewn  around  it,  and  can  be  traced 
along  the  shore  for  a considerable  distance;  these  were 
recognised  by  Irby  and  Mangles  (p.89,5)  as  the  remains 
of  Vespasian’s  camp  (Josephus,  War,  i,  1, 3).  There  are 
also  three  smaller  warm  springs  at  this  place.  The  wa- 
ter has  a temperature  of  1 1 1 Fahr. ; the  taste  is  ex- 
tremely salt  and  bitter,  and  a strong  smell  of  sulphur  is 
emitted.  The  whole  surrounding  district  has  a volcanic 
aspect.  The  warm  fountains,  the  rocks  of  trap  and 
lava,  and  the  frequent  earthquakes,  prove  that  the  ele- 
ments of  destruction  are  still  at  work  beneath  the  sur- 
face. It  is  said  that  at  the  time  of  the  great  earthquake 
of  1837  the  quantity  of  water  issuing  from  the  springs 
was  greatly  increased,  and  the  temperature  much  higher 
than  ordinarily  (Porter,  Hamlbookfor  B.  ami  P.  ii,  423; 
Thomson,  land  and  Book , ii,  GO ; Wilson,  lands  of  the 
Bible,  ii,  397 ; I b land,  Palest,  p.  302,  703),  'Phis  spot  is 
also  mentioned  in  the  Talmud  (Schwarz,  Palest,  p.  ]82) 
as  being  situated  one  mile  from  Tiberias  (Light foot, 
Opp.  ii,  221).  The  IIammotii-dok  of  Josh,  xxi,  32  is 
probably  the  same  place.  See  IIe.matii;  IIammon. 

'I’lie  Hamath  oft.'adara,  however,  located  by  the  Tal- 
mudists (see  Light  font,  ih.)  at  the  mouth  of  the  Jordan 
js  a different  place  (see  also  Zuiiz,  Appendix  to  Beni,  of 
Tudela,  n,  1(13) ; doubtless  the  A. math  a (q.  v.)  of  Jose- 
phus (Ant.  x,  5,  2),  and  the  modern  A match  on  the 
l armuk  (Van  de  Velde,  Map). 

Hammed'atha  (Ileb.  Hammedatha',  XT  “Till  • 
Sept.  ’A/f<ic<f0oc\Vulg.  Anuidathus,  but  both  sometimes 
onnt),  father  of  the  infamous  Hainan  (q.  v.),  and  com- 
mnnly  designated  as  “the  Agagite”  (Kstli.  iii,  1,  K); 
viii,  ix.  21),  though  also  without  that  title  (ix,  10)’ 
By  Gesenius  (Lex.  1855,  p.  539)  the  name  is  taken  to  be 


2 IIAMMERLIX 

iMedatka,  preceded  by  the  definite  article:  but  Fiirst 
(Lex.  s.  v.),  with  more  probability,  identities  it  with  the 
Zemlic  haomodata,  i.  e.  “given  by  Horn,”  one  of  the 
Izeds.  For  other  explanations,  see  Simonis  (Onomasti- 
con,  p.  580),  who  derives  it  from  a Persian  word  mean- 
ing “double.”  For  the  termination,  compare  Ahida- 
tiia.  B.C.  ante  474. 

Ham'melech  (Ileb.  ham-Me'lek,  “b^n.  which 
is  merely  “3*2,  me'lek,  king,  with  the  article  prefixed: 
Sept,  translates  o fiaoiAtvg,  V ulg.  A meleeh),  the  father 
of  Jerahmeel,  which  latter  was  one  of  those  commanded 
by  Jehoiakim  to  arrest  Jeremiah  and  Baruch  (Jer. 
xxxvi, 20).  B.C.ante  G05.  It  is  doubtful  whether  this 
was  the  same  with  the  Flammelech,  father  of  Malchiah, 
into  whose  dungeon  Jeremiah  was  afterwards  cast  (Jer. 
xxxviii,  G).  B.C.  ante  589.  Others,  however,  regard 
the  word  in  both  cases  as  an  appellative,  referring  in  the 
first  passage  to  Jehoiakim,  and  in  the  latter  to  Zedekiah. 
Compare  11a.mjiolekl.tji. 

Ham-menuchoth.  See  Manahetiute. 

Hammer,  an  indispensable  tool  designated  by  sev- 
eral Ileb.  terms:  1.  rattish'  (12132,  connected  etymo- 
logically with  Trardaow,  to  strike),  which  was  used  by 
the  gold-beater  (Isa.  xli,  7,  Sept,  oeprpa)  to  overlay  with 
silver  and  “smooth”  the  surface  of  the  image,  as  well 
as  by  the  qnarrvman  (Jer.  xxiii,  29,  Sept.  vriAvZ) ; met- 
aphorically of  Babylon  as  a destructive  agent  (Jer.  1, 23, 
Sept,  aepvpa).  This  seems  to  have  been  the  heaviest 
instrument  of  the  kind  for  hard  blows.  2.  Makkahah' 
(TQ|52),  properly  a tool  for  hollowing,  hence  a stone- 
cutter's mallet  (1  Kings  vi,  7),  and  generally  any  work- 
man's hammer  (Judg.  iv,  21  [where  the  form  is 
makke'beth ];  Isa.  xliv,  12;  Jer.  x,  4).  In  Isaiah  the 
Sept,  uses  riperpoi',  a gimlet,  in  all  the  rest  aepvpa ; V ulg. 
malleus.  See  Maccaileus.  3.  IJalmuth'  (T1 -bn), 
used  only  in  Judg.  v,  26;  Sept,  cnpvoa,  Yulg.  mallei  [q. 
‘d.  TV2?n] ; and  then  with  the  addition  of  the  word 
“workmen’s”  by  way  of  explanation,  as  this  is  a poet- 
ical word,  used  instead  of  the  preceding  more  prosaic 
term.  The  pins  of  the  tent  of  the  Bedouin  are  gener- 
ally of  wood,  and  are  driven  into  the  ground  by  a mal- 
let, which  is  probably  the  “hammer”  referred  to  in  this 
passage  (Thomson,  Land  and  Book,  ii,  149).  Dr.  Ilack- 
ett  observes  (Amer.  ed.  of  Smith’s  Diet.  s.  v.)  that  “it  is 
spoken  of  as  ‘ the  hammer,’  being  the  one  kept  for  that 
purpose;”  but  the  Hebrew  term  used  in  Judg.  v,  2G  (to 
which  he  refers)  is  without  the  art.,  which  is  employed, 
however,  with  that  found  in  Judg.  iv,  21.  See  Nail. 
4.  A kind  of  hammer,  named  moppets'  (jfE*2),  Jer.  Ii, 
20  (A.  V.  “battle-axe”),  or  mephits'  (]T"12  w),  Prov.  xxv, 
18  (A.  V.  “maul”),  was  used  as  a weapon  of  war.  5. 
Only  in  the  plur.  ( T "“!  2 b 11 2 , key l appoth Sept.  Aa%vTt)pia, 
Yulg.  asciee),  a poetic  term  equivalent  to  the  preceding 
(Psa.  lxxiv,  G).  See  Handicraft. 

Hammerlin  or  Hammerlein,  Felix  (Lat.  Mal- 
leolus), a Swiss  theologian,  was  born  at  Zurich  in  1389. 
lie  studied  canon  law  at  Erfurt,  was  in  1421  appointed 
canon  of  Zofingen,  and  in  1422  provost  of  Solothurn. 
V ith  the  income  of  these  offices  he  bought  a large  li- 
brary, and  applied  himself  earnestly  to  study.  He  sub- 
sequently took  part  in  the  Council  of  Basle,  where  he 
showed  great  zeal  for  the  restoration  of  ecclesiastical 
discipline,  and  thus  made  himself  a number  of  enemies. 
An  attempt  was  made  to  assassinate  him  in  1439,  but  he 
escaped,  though  not  without  being  dangerously  wound- 
ed. 1 lie  xxxth  chapter  of  his  De  Nobilitate,  in  which 
he  abused  the  confederate  cantons  which  had  waged 
war  on  Zurich  in  1443,  made  him  an  object  of  hatred  to 
a large  party  of  his  countrymen.  A number  of  these, 
having  gone  to  Zurich  on  the  occasion  of  the  Carnival 
of  1454,  seized  I Limmerlin,  dragged  him  to  Constance, 
and  had  him  thrown  into  prison.  As  he  refused  to  re^ 
tract  anything  he  had  said  or  written,  he  was  condemn- 


HAMMER-PURGSTALL 


53 


HAMMOND 


ed  to  imprisonment  for  life  in  a convent.  He  was  ac-  | 
cordingly  placed  in  a convent  of  barefooted  monks  at  1 
Lucerne,  where  he  died  some  time  after  1457,  a victim 
to  his  zeal  for  justice  and  truth.  He  wrote  Vurim  Ob- 
lectationis  Opuscula  et  Tructatus  (Basle,  1497,  fol.),  con- 
taining a number  of  treatises  on  exorcism,  on  monkish 
discipline,  against  the  Begliards,  etc.  He  is  very  se- 
vere in  these  writings  against  the  prevailing  corruptions 
of  the  clergy  and  the  convents.  lie  also  left  some  MSS., 
which  are  preserved  in  the  collegiate  library  of  Zurich. 
See  Bodmer  u.  Breitinger,  llelvetische  Bibliothek  (Zurich, 
1735);  Ilottinger,  Schola  Tigurina,  p.  ‘24 ; Niceron,  Me- 
moires,  vol.  xxvni ; Ilocfer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii, 
268:  Reber,  Felix  llemmerlin  (Zurich,  184G). 

Hammer-Purgstall,  Joseph  von,  a German  Ori- 
entalist of  great  celebrity,  was  bom  July  9,  1774,  at 
Gratz,  in  Styria,  and  died  in  Vienna  Nov.  24, 1850.  Ilis 
family  name  was  Hammer,  and  he  is  frequently  referred 
to  under  that  name,  or  as  Von  Hammer;  but  having  in- 
herited in  1837  the  estates  of  the  counts  of  Purgstall, 
he  added  that  name  to  his  own,  and  was  made  a baron. 
He  entered  at  an  early  age  the  Oriental  Academy  at 
Vienna,  and  acquired  a knowledge  of  Arabic,  Persian, 
and  Turkish.  Being  subsequently  employed  in  various 
diplomatic  posts  in  the  East,  he  greatly  extended  his 
acquaintance  with  Oriental  languages  and  literature. 
He  wrote  and  spoke  ten  foreign  languages,  viz.  the  three 
above  named,  Greek,  Latin,  Italian,  Spanish,  French, 
English,  and  Russian ; but  his  works  show  rather  varied 
and  extensive  research  and  learning  than  profound  mas- 
tery of  his  subjects.  They  are  by  no  means  free  from 
errors,  though  his  careful  reference  to  authorities  makes 
correction  of  mistakes  comparatively  easy.  His  writ- 
ings, including  contributions  to  journals  and  scientific 
associations,  would  make  more  than  100  octavo  volumes, 
and,  on  the  whole,  are  regarded  as  among  the  most  valu- 
able contributions  of  the  present  century  to  Oriental  his- 
tory and  literature.  They  are  noticed  here  because  of 
the  information  they  give  as  to  the  religious  history  and 
condition  of  Oriental  nations.  The  most  important  of 
his  works  in  this  respect  are  Encycloptedische  Ueber- 
sicht  tier  1 Vissensch a /'ten  ties  Orients  (Lpz.  1804,  2 vols. 
in  l,8vo),  a work  based  on  seven  Oriental  works,  espe- 
cially the  bibliographical  dictionary  oflladgi  Khalfa : — 
Ancient  Alphabets  and  Hieroglyphic  Characters  explain- 
ed, with  an  Account  of  the  Egyptian  Priests , their  Classes, 
Initiation,  and  Sacrifices  (translated  from  the  Arabic  of 
Ahwad  bin-Abubakr  bir.-Wahshih,  London,  1800,  small 
4to):  — Fundgi'vben  ties  Orients,  etc.,  ou  Mines  de  V Ori- 
ent exploiters  (Vienna,  1809-18, 0 vols.  in  3,  fol.,  of  which 
Hammer-Purgstall  was  the  chief  editor) : — Morgenldnd- 
isehes  Kleeblutt  (Persian  and  Arab  hymns,  etc. ; Vienna, 
1818,  4to)  : — Geschichte  tier  schonen  Redckiinste  Pcrsiens 
(Vienna,  1818,  4to) : — Mysterium  Baphometis  rerelatum 
(Vienna,  1818,  fol.;  also  in  vol.  vi  of  Mines  de  V Orient: 
the  author  herein  seeks  to  prove  from  emblems  on  mon- 
uments once  belonging  to  the  Templars  that  their  order 
was  guilty  of  the  crimes  charged  to  it.  Raynouard  [ Jour- 
nal ties  Savants,  1819]  refuted  this  opinion,  but  Hammer- 
Purgstall  defended  it  with  new  arguments  in  a paper  in 
the  Memoirs  of  the  Academy  of  Vienna,  1855): — Ge- 
schichte tier  Assassinen  (Paris,  1833, 8vo,  and  an  English 
ed.  by  Wood,  History  of  the  Assassins , Loud.  1835,  8vo. 
The  author  makes  curious  comparisons  between  the  As- 
sassins, the  Templars,  the  Freemasons,  and  the  Jesuits) : 
— Geschichte  ties  Osmunischen  Reichs  (best  ed.  Pesth, 
1827-35,  10  vols.  8vo;  French  translations  by  Dochez, 
Paris,  1844,  3 vols.  8vo,  and  by  llellert,  with  notes  and 
an  Atlas,  Histoire  tie  l' Empire  Ottoman,  Paris,  1835-43, 
18  vols.  8vo) : — Geschichte  tier  Osmanischen  Dichtkunst 
(Pesth,  1836-38,  10  vols.  8vo — a completer  history  of 
Turkish  poetry  than  any  existing,  even  in  Turkey  it- 
self) : — the  celebrated  treatise  on  morals  by  Ghazali,  un- 
der the  title  of  O Kind!  die  beriihmte  ethische  Abhand- 
lung  Ghasalis  (Vienna,  1838,  12mo) : — Zeitwarte  des 
Gebetes,  a prayer-book  in  Arabic  and  German  (Vienna, 
1844, 8 vo) : — Liter utur-Geschichte  tier  Araber  (Vienna, 


1850,  7 vols.  4to:  this  work,  as  first  published,  ends 
with  the  Bagdad  caliphate,  and  contains  about  10,000 
biographical  and  bibliographical  notices): — Dus  Ara- 
bische  Ilohe  Lied  tier  Liebe,  etc.,  with  commentary,  and 
an  introduction  relative  to  mysticism  among  the  Arabs 
(Vienna,  1854,  8vo).  Hammer  left  an  autobiography 
( Denkwiirdigkeiten  aus  meinem  Leben)  and  other  writings 
in  MS.,  which  have  been  published,  or  arc  publishing, 
under  the  direction  of  Auer,  director  of  the  imperial 
printing-press  of  Vienna. — New  American  Cycloptrdia, 
viii,  690;  Hoefcr,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  259  sq.; 
Picrer,  s.  v. ; K.  Schlottman,  Joseph  von  H.-Purgstalf,  ein 
kritischer  Beitrag  zur  Geschichte  neuerer  deutscher  1 1 Tis- 
senschaft  (Zurich,  1857,  [73  p.]  8vo).  (J.W.  M.) 

Hammol'eketh  (Ileb.  ham-Mole’keth, 
which  is  the  art.  prefixed  to  rcbfc,  mole'keth,  fern.  part. 
=“tlie  Queen;”  Sept,  i)  M«/\tyt0,Vulg.  translates  re - 
gina),  a woman  introduced  in  the  genealogies  of  Manas- 
seh  as  daughter  of  Macbir  and  sister  of  Gilead  (1  Chron. 
vii,  17,  18),  and  as  having  among  her  three  children 
Abi-ezer,  from  whose  family  sprang  the  great  judge 
Gideon.  B.C.  prob.  between  1874  and  1058.  The  Tar- 
gum  translates  the  name  by  fcblS  lH,  who  reigned.  The 
Jewish  tradition,  as  preserved  by  Kimchi  in  his  com- 
mentary on  the  passage,  is  that  ‘‘she  used  to  reign  over 
a portion  of  the  land  which  belonged  to  Gilead,”  and 
that  for  that  reason  her  lineage  has  been  preserved. — 
Smith,  s.  v.  See  ILuimelech. 

Ham' mo n (Ileb.  Chammon' , *pi£H,  warm;  Sept. 
’Apwv  and  Xaptov'),  the  name  of  two  places. 

1.  A town  in  the  tribe  of  Asher,  mentioned  between 
Rehob  and  Kan  ah  (Josh,  xix,  28).  Dr.  Robinson  qubtes 
the  suggestion  of  Schultz  as  possible,  that  it  may  be  the 
ruined  town  lltimul,  at  the  head  of  a wady  of  the  same 
name  which  comes  down  to  the  Mediterranean  just 
north  of  En-Nakurah,  somewhat  south  of  Tyre  (new  ed. 
of  Researches,  iii,  06).  Schwarz  thinks  it  is  identical 
with  a village  Ilamani,  situated,  according  to  him,  two 
miles  south  by  east  of  Tyre  ( Palest . p.  192);  probably 
the  place  marked  on  Zimmerman’s  and  Van  de  Velde’s 
Maps  as  Hunnaweh.  The  scriptural  text,  however, 
would  seem  to  indicate  a position  on  the  northern  boun- 
dary, about  midway  between  Naphtali  (at  Reliob)  and 
Sidon.  Hence  Knobel  ( Erkliir . ad  loc.)  connects  it  with 
the  village  Ilammana,  on  a wady  of  the  same  name  east 
of  Beyrut,  where  there  is  now  a Maronite  monastery 
(Seetzen,  i,  2G0);  but  this,  again,  is  too  far  north  (Keil, 
in  Keil  and  Delitzsch,  ad  loc.).  Van  de  Velde  {Memoir 
and  Map ) adopts  the  first  of  the  above  sites,  which,  al- 
though neither  the  name  nor  the  situation  exactly 
agrees,  is  perhaps  the  best  hitherto  suggested. 

2.  A Levitical  city  of  Naphtali,  assigned,  with  its 
suburbs,  to  the  descendants  of  Gershom  (1  Chron.  vi,  76). 
Schwarz  {Palest,  p.  183)  not  improbably  conjectures 
that  it  is  the  same  with  Hamjiath  (Josh,  xix,  35). 
Compare  Hammotii-dok  (Josh,  xxi,  32). 

Hammond,  Henry,  D.D.,  a learned  divine  of  the 
English  Church,  was  born  Aug.  18,  1605,  at  Chertsey, 
Surrey.  He  was  sent  at  an  early  age  to  Eton,  whence 
he  removed  to  Magdalen  College,  Oxford,  and  became 
a fellow  of  that  society  in  1G25.  In  1033  the  earl  of 
Leicester  presented  him  to  the  rectory  of  Pemdmrst, 
Kent,  where  he  resided  till  1043,  when  he  was  made 
archdeacon  of  Chichester.  “ By  birth  and  education  a 
confirmed  Royalist,  he  retired  to  Oxford  soon  after  the 
civil  Avar  broke  out,  continued  to  reside  there  while  that 
city  Avas  held  by  the  king,  and  attended  the  king’s  com- 
missioners to  Uxbridge,  Avhere  lie  disputed  with  Vines, 
a Presbyterian  minister.  He  Avas  appointed  canon  of 
Christchurch  and  public  orator  in  1645,  and  attended 
Charles  I as  his  chaplain  from  the  time  Avhen  he  fell 
into  the  hands  of  the  army  until  the  end  of  1047,  Avhen 
the  king’s  attendants  Avere  sent  aAvav  from  him.  Ham- 
; mond  then  returned  to  Oxford,  and  Avas  chosen  sub- 
j dean  of  Christchurch,  from  Avhich  situation  he  Avas  ex- 


54 


HAMPDEN 


1 1 AMMOTI l-DOll 

j.fHod  ill  March,  1 648,  by  the  parliamentary  visitors, 
and  placed  for  some  time  in  confinement.  On  his  re- 
lease he  repaired  to  Westwood,  Worcestershire,  the  seat 
of  Sir  John  Packwood,  where  tlie  remainder  of  his  life 
was  spent  in  literary  labor,  ‘doing  much  good  to  the 
day  of  his  death,  in  which  time  lie  had  the  disposal  of 
great  charities  reposed  in  his  hands,  as  being  the  most 
zealous  promoter  of  almsgiving  that  lived  in  England 
since  the  change  of  religion.’  . . . lie  died  after  long 
suffering  from  a complication  of  disorders,  April  25, 1660. 
ft  is  said  that  Charles  II  intended  for  him  the  bishopric 
of  Worcester.  Hammond  was  a man  of  great  learning, 
as  well  in  the  classics  and  general  philology  as  in  doc- 
trinal and  school  divinitv,  and  possessed  great  natural 
ability”  (Jones,  Cfo-ist.  Biogr.  p.  210).  Of  his  writings 
the  following  are  some  of  the  most  important:  Prac- 
tical Catechism  (1044):  — Paraphrase  and  Annotations 
on  the  Xeir  Testament  (Lond.  1653,8vo;  often  reprinted; 
last  edition  1 845,  4 vols.  8vo).  It  was  translated  into 
Latin  by  Leelerc  (Amster.  1008),  with  observations  ancl 
criticisms.  Dr.  Johnson  was  very  fond  of  Hammond’s 
Annotations , and  recommended  them  strongly.  The 
theology  of  the  work  is  Arminian.  Paraphrase  and 
Annotations  upon  the  Psalms  (1651),  fid. ; new  ed.  1850,  2 
vols.  8 vo  ) : — Discourses  on  God's  Grace  and  Decrees 
(1660,  8vo),  taking  the  Arminian  view: — Annotations 
on  the  Proverbs  (1683,  fol.):  — Sermons  (1644,  fid.). 
These,  with  many  valuable  writings  on  the  Lomish 
c mtroversy,  may  be  found  in  Fulman’s  Collected  1 Yorks 
of  Dr.  Hammond  (3d  cd.,  London,  1774,  4 vols.  fol.),  of 
which  the  1st  vol.  contains  his  Life  by  Dr.  Fell.  The 
Life  was  reprinted  in  1840,  and  may  be  found  in  Words- 
worth, Fccles.  Biography,  iv,  313.  See  also  Hook,  Eccl. 
Biography , v,  534.  1 Iammond’s  miscellaneous  theologic- 
al writings  are  reprinted  in  the  Library  of  Anglo-Cath- 
olic Theology  (Oxford  1817-51,  4 vols.  8vo). 

Ham'moth-dor(lIeb. Chammoth’-Dor, "XI 
prob.  for  “iTi",  Ilammath  of  Dor , but  the  reason  of 
the  latter  part  of  the  name  is  not  clear;  Sept.  ’Apa$- 
ctoo,  Vulg.  I la  moth  Dor'),  a Levitical  and  refuge  city  of 
Xaphtali  (Josh,  xxi,  32)  ; probably  the  same  elsewhere 
called  simply  IIammatii  (Josh,  xix,  35). 

Hamon,  See  Baal-iiamon;  Hamox-gog. 

H anion,  Jkax,  a distinguished  French  moralist, 
was  born  at  Cherbourg  in  1618.  He  was  a graduate 
physician  of  the  University  of  Paris.  He  had  already 
established  a great  reputation,  and  was  offered  a good 
charge  by  his  pupil,  M.  de  Ilarlav  (afterwards  president 
of  the  Parliament);  but,  by  the  advice  of  his  spiritual 
director,  Singlin,  he  sold  all  his  goods,  gave  the  pro- 
ceeds to  the  poor,  and  became  a hermit  of  Port  Loyal 
in  H’mI.  lie  nevertheless  continued  practicing  medi- 
cine, visiting  the  poor  in  the  neighborhood  of  Port  Loy- 
al, mid  administering  to  them  both  spiritual  advice  and 
remedies.  I he  A icroloye  de  Port  Royal  says:  “After 
a life  as  carefully  guarded  as  though  each  day  was  to 
he  the  last,  he  ended  it  joyfully  by  a peaceful  death,  as 
he  hail  wished,  mid  entered  into  eternal  life,”  Fell.  22, 
108,.  He  wrote  Divers  Trades  de  Piefe  (Paris,  1075,2 
vols.  liiiiii) : Bur  la  Priere  el  hs  Devoirs  des  Pasteurs 
( Par.  1683.2  vols.  12mo): — La  Pratique  de  la  Priere  con- 
ti, nolle  (Paris,  17112,  12mo ):— Explication  du  ('antique 
d>s  ( antiques , with  an  introduction  by  Nicole  (Paris, 
lil»8,  4 vols.  12ino): — Instructions  pour  les  Itelir/ieuses 
de  Port  Royal ( 1727  and  1730,2  vols.) Instructions  snr 
hs  Sacraments,  snr  le  .labile,  etc.  (Paris,  1731,  12mo):_ 
Ljphcation  de  I'Oraison  Dominictde  (Par.  1735),  besides 
other  practical  and  controversial  writings.  Sec  . Xecro - 
logo  de  Port  Rogal  (Amst.  1723,  4fo);  Thomas  Dufosse, 
Jhstenre  de  Port  Rogal;  Memo! res  de  Fontaine;  Dupin 
Ihst.  Redes. du  1 7"“  merle ; I looter,  A oar.  Dion.  Generate 
xxiii,  272. 

Hamo'nah  (Ileb.  Ilamnnah multitude; 
Sept,  translates  IIoXi>rri'fy«m,  Vulg.  Anum), a name  fig- 
uratively assigned  to  the  sepulchral  “city” of  the  valley 


in  which  the  slaughter  and  burial  of  the  forces  of  (log 
are  prophetically  announced  to  take  place  (Ezek.xxxix, 
16),  emblematical  of  the  multitude  of  graves  (compare 
Joel  iii,  14).  See  Hamox-gog. 

Ha'mon-gog  (Heb.  Hamun’-Gdg,  “(T -H,  multi- 
tude of  Gog ; fully  with  valley,  prefixed ; Sept,  to 
Tat  to  7To\vdvotnov  tov  Pioy, Vulg.  Yallis  multitudinis 
Gog),  the  name  prophetically  ascribed  to  the  valley  in 
which  the  corpses  of  the  slaughtered  army  of  Gog  are 
described  as  to  be  buried  (Ezek.  xxxix,  11,15);  repre- 
sented as  situated  to  the  east  of  the  Dead  Sea,  on  the 
thoroughfare  of  commerce  with  Arabia  (comp,  the  route 
of  the  Ishmaelites  to  whom  Joseph  was  sold,  Gen.  xvii, 
25),  probably  the  present  Haj  road  between  Damascus 
and  Mecca,  but  scarcely  referring  to  any  particular  spot. 
(See  llavcrnick,  Commentin',  ad  loc. ; Stuart’s  Corn- 
ua ut.  on  the  Apocalypse,  ii,  367.)  See  Gog. 

Ha'mor  (lleb.  Chamor',  -H,  a he-ass ; Sept.  ’Ep- 
pd) p,  N.T.  ’Eppop),  a Hivitc,  from  whom  (or  his  sons) 
Jacob  purchased  the  plot  of  ground  in  which  Joseph 
was  afterwards  buried  (Gen.  xxxiii,  19;  Josh,  xxi v,  32 ; 
Acts  vii,  15;  in  which  last  passage  the  name  is  Angli- 
cized Emmok),  and  whose  son  Shechem  seduced  Dinah 
(Gen.  xxxiv,  2).  B.C.  cir.  1005.  As  the  latter  appears 
to  have  founded  the  city  of  Shechem  (q.  v.),  II  am  or  is 
also  named  as  the  representative  of  its  inhabitants 
(Juclg.ix,28)  in  the  time  of  Ahimelecli  (q.  v.).  Ilis  char- 
acter and  influence  are  indicated  by  his  title  (“prince” 
of  the  Ilivite  tribe  in  that  vicinity),  and  his  judicious 
behavior  in  the  case  of  his  son;  but  neither  of  these 
saved  him  from  the  indiscriminate  massacre  by  Dinah’s 
brothers.  See  Jacob. 

Hampden,  Lexx  Dickson,  D.D.,  bishop  of  Here- 
ford, England,  a descendant  of  John  Hampden,  was  born 
A.D.  1702,  in  the  island  of  Barbadoes,  where  his  family 
had  settled  in  1670.  lie  entered  Uriel  College,  Oxford, 
as  a commoner,  in  1810,  and  subsequently  was  admitted 
a fellow,  appointed  a tutor,  and,  in  1820  and  1831,  was 
public  examiner  in  classics.  He  delivered  the  Bamp- 
ton  lecture  in  1832,  choosing  for  his  subject  The  Scho- 
lastic Philosophy  considered  in  its  relation  to  Christian 
Theology  (3d  edit.  Lond.  1848, 8 vo),  and  in  1833  was  ap- 
pointed principal  of  St.  Mary’s  Hall.  In  1834  he  was 
elected  White’s  professor  of  moral  philosophy  (Oxford), 
and  published  a pamphlet  entitled  Observations  on  Re- 
ligious Dissent.  The  opinions  expressed  in  this  work 
and  in  his  Bampton  lecture  were  made  the  grounds  of 
opposition  to  his  confirmation  in  1836  as  regius  professor 
of  divinity  (Oxford),  to  which  Lord  Melbourne,  then 
premier,  had  appointed  him.  The  controversy  over  this 
appointment,  which  assumed  the  character  of  a violent 
struggle,  and  is  known  as  the  First  JIampden  Case,  ap- 
pears to  have  been  based  on  political  feelings  as  well  as 
theological  grounds.  His  principal  opponents  were  To- 
ries and  Iligh-Chnrchmen,  among  whom  were  Dr.  Pu- 
sev  and  J.  11.  Newman,  now  a Roman  Catholic.  A re- 
monstrance against  the  appointment  was  sent  to  the 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  to  be  presented  to  the  crown. 
A declaration,  condemning  Hampden’s  “mode  of  view- 
ing the  doctrines  of  the  Bible  and  the  Articles  of  the 
Church”  was  numerously  signed  by  residents  of  the  uni- 
versity, and  au  effort  was  made  in  the  House  of  Convo- 
cation to  pass  a statute  expressing  want  of  confidence 
in  his  views,  which  was  only  frustrated  by  the  interpo- 
sition of  the  proctors.  The  struggle  was  renewed  in  the 
Second  Hampden  Case,  occasioned  by  Hampden’s  ap- 
pointment to  the  see  of  Hereford  by  lord  John  Lussell 
in  1817.  Thirteen  of  the  bishops  remonstrated  against 
the  appointment, “appealing  to  the  former  controversy, 
ami  urging  the  inexpediency  of  placing  over  the  elergy 
one  whose  opinions  were  rendered  suspicions  by  the  de- 
cision of  a body  like  the  University  of  Oxford.”  Hamp- 
den’s friends  replied  that  a change  had  taken  place  in 
the  minds  of  the  members  of  the  Convocation  of  the  Uni- 
versity, reducing  the  proportions  of  474  to  94  in  1836, 
1 o30  to  219  in  1842,  on  the  proposition  to  repeal  the 


HAMPDEN  CASES 


55 


HAN AN! 


expression  of  censure ; and  further,  that  many  who  cen- 
sured Hampden  “objected  to  the  university  as  an  arbi- 
ter of  doctrine  in  the  case  ofTract  xe,  and  of  Mr.  Ward’s 
Ideal  of  the  Church."  The  opposition,  as  in  the  former 
ease,  arose  mainly  from  political  opponents  and  from 
Traetarians.  The  government  refused  to  yield,  and  Dr. 
Hampden  was  installed  as  bishop  of  Hereford,  and  thence- 
forth devoted  himself  to  his  episcopal  duties,  the  attacks 
upon  him  gradually  ceasing.  lie  died  April  23,1808.  Ilis 
position  was  that  of  a moderate  churchman,  and  the  ex- 
pression of  his  views  at  this  day  could  hardly  provoke 
so  fierce  an  opposition  as  in  183G.  A list  of  the  most 
important  pamphlets  relating  to  the  Hampden  cases  is 
given  by  Allibone,  s.  v.  Hampden.  Besides  the  works 
mentioned  above,  Dr.  Hampden’s  most  important  writ- 
ings are,  Philosophical  Evidence  of  Christianity,  etc.  (1 827, 
8vo) : — Lectures  on  Moral  Philosophy  (8vo) : — Parochial 
Sermons  (1836, 8vo) : — Lecture  on  Tradition  (1841, 8 vo) : 
— Sermons  before  the  University  of  Oxford  (1836-1847) : 
— a Review  of  the  writings  pf  Thomas  Aquinas  in  the 
Encycl.  Metropolitana , which  led  Ilallam  to  character- 
ize Hampden  “as  the  only  Englishman  who,  since  the 
revival  of  letters,  has  penetrated  into  the  wilderness  of 
scholasticism;”  and  the  articles  on  Socrates,  Plato,  and 
A ristotle,  in  the  Encycl.  Britannica.  See  English  Review, 
viii,  430 ; ix,  229;  Blache.  May.  No.  246  (April,  1836) ; 
Brit,  and  Eor.  Rev.  xv,  169;  N.  Brit.  Review , viii,  286; 
Edin.  Rev.  lxiii,  225;  Eraser's  May.  xxxvii,  105;  Eclec. 
Rev.  4 th  series,  xxiii,  22  f;  Allibone,  Did.  of  Authors,  i, 
780;  Chambers’s  Cyclop,  of  English  Literature,  ii,  733 
(Philada.  1867) ; Rose,  in  Church  Hist,  from  Thirteenth 
Century  to  Present.  Time,  in  crown  8vo  edition  of  Encycl. 
Metropolitana,  p.  385.  (J.  W.  M.) 

Hampden  Cases.  See  Hampden,  R.  D. 
Hampton-Court  Conference.  See  Confer- 
ee CK. 

Hamran.  See  Hemdan. 

Hamu'el  (Heb.  Chammuel’,  heat  [?  anger 

or  light]  of  God;  Sept.  'A/iom/X,  Vulg.  Ilanmet),  the  son 
of  Mishma  and  (apparently)  father  of  Zacchur,  of  the 
tribe  of  Simeon  (1  Chron.  iv,  26).  B.C.  ante  1046. 

Ha'mul  (Heb.  Chamul’ , Vs! -H,  spared;  Sept.  ’H- 
fxovgX),  the  second  of  the  two  sons  of  Pharez,  son  of  Ju- 
dah (1  Chron.  ii,  5).  He  eonld  not  have  been  born, 
however,  before  the  migration  of  Jacob  into  Egypt  (as 
appears  to  be  stated  in  Gen.  xlvi,  12),  since  Pharez  was 
not  at  that  time  grown  up  (Gen.  xxxviii,  1).  His  de- 
scendants were  called  Hamulites  (Numb,  xxvi,  21). 
B.C.  between  1870  and  1856. 

Ha'mulite  (Heb.  Chamuli',  Sept.  Tf/tou- 

rj\i),  a descendant  of  Hamul  (q.  v.),  the  grandson  of 
Judah  (Numb,  xxvi,  21). 

Hamu'tal  (Heb.  Ckamutal' linsman  oft  he 
dew;  Sept.  ’A/ti-dX,  but  in  Jer.  lii,  1 'A ytrciaX,  Vulgate 
Amital ; but  the  Heb.  text  has  [,ChamitaT  [of 

the  same  import],  in  2 Kings  xxiv,  18;  Jer.  lii,  1),  the 
daughter  of  Jeremiah  of  Libnali,  wife  of  king  Josiah 
and  mother  of  king  Jehoahaz  (2  Kings  xxiii,  31),  also 
of  king  Zedekiali  (2  Kings  xxiv,  18 ; Jer.  lii,  1).  B.C. 
632-619. 

Hanam'eel  (Heb.  ChanameV,  bx’CSn,  perh.  i.  q. 
Ilananeel;  Sept.  ’A vaytifK ,Vulg.  Remained),  son  of  Slial- 
lum  and  cousin  of  Jeremiah,  to  whom,  before  the  siege 
of  Jerusalem,  be  sold  a field  which  he  possessed  in  Ana- 
thoth,  a town  of  the  Levites  (Jer.  xxxii,6-12).  If  this 
field  belonged  to  Ilanameel  as  a Levite,  the  sale  of  it 
would  imply  that  an  ancient  law  had  fallen  into  disuse 
(Lev.  xxv,  34);  but  it  is  possible  that  it  may  have  been 
the  property  of  Hanameel  in  right  of  his  mother.  Com- 
pare the  case  of  Barnabas,  who  was  also  a Levite ; and 
the  note  of  Grotius  on  Acts  iv,  37.  Henderson  (on  Jer. 
xxxii,7)  supposes  that  a portion  of  the  Levitical  estates 
might  be  sold  within  the  tribe.  Fairbairn  (s.  a-.)  sug- 
gests that  as  this  Avas  a typical  act,  the  ordinary  civil 


rides  do  not  apply  to  it.  The  transaction,  however,  Avas 
conducted  Avith  all  the  forms  of  legal  transfer,  at  the 
special  instance  of  JehoA-ah,  and  ivas  intended  to  evince 
the  certainty  of  restoration  from  the  approaching  exile 
by  sliOAving  that  possessions  which  eould  be  established 
by  documents  Avouhl  yet  be  of  future  value  to  the  pos- 
sessor (Jer.  xxxii,  13-15).  B.C.  589. — Kitto,  s.  a\. 

Ha'lian  (Ilcb.  Chainin',  “,311,  merciful,  or  peril,  rather 
an  abbrei*iation  of‘|3rril,  later  John  [see  Ananias;  IIa- 
nani,  etc.] ; Sept.  ’Avav,  but  in  Jer.  xxxa',  4 ’Araviar), 
the  name  of  at  least  seven  men.  See  also  Baal-IIa- 
nan;  Ben-Hanax;  Elon-betii-IIanan. 

1.  One  of  the  sons  (or  descendants)  of  Shasliak,  a 
chief  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  resident  at  Jerusalem  (1 
Chron.  viii, 23).  B.C.  apparently  between  1612  and  1093. 

2.  Son  of  Maachah,  and  one  of  David’s  heroes  (1 
Chron.  xi, 43).  B.C.  1046. 

3.  Father  of  Igdaliah,  “ a man  of  God;”  in  the  cham- 
ber of  his  sons  Jeremiah  tested  the  fidelity  of  the  Rech- 
abites  (Jer.  xxxv,  4).  B.C.  ante  606. 

4.  The  last  named  of  the  six  sons  of  Azel  the  Benja- 
mite  (1  Chron.  viii,  38 ; ix,  44).  B.C.  cir.  588. 

5.  One  of  the  Nethinim  Avhose  family  returned  from 
the  captivity  Avith  Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  46;  Nell,  vii, 
49).  B.C.  ante  536. 

6.  One  of  the  Levites  ivho  assisted  Ezra  in  expound- 
ing the  larv  to  the  people  (Neh.  viii,  7 ; comp,  ix,  4,  5). 
He  also  subscribed  the  sacred  covenant  with  Nehemiah 
(Neh.  x,  10).  From  Neh.  xiii,  13,  it  appears  that  he 
Avas  the  son  of  Zaccur,  and,  on  account  of  his  integrity, 
he  AA’as  one  of  those  appointed  to  distribute  the  Leviti- 
cal reA'enues  among  his  brethren.  B.C.  cir.  410. 

7.  One  of  the  chiefs  of  the  people  Avho  subscribed  the 
solemn  coA'enant  clran-n  up  by  Nehemiah  (Neh.  x,  22). 
In  A'cr.  26  his  name  appears  to  be  repeated  in  the  same 
list.  B.C.  cir.  410. 

Kanan'eel  (Ileb.  Chananel','b^t'n,waich  God  has 
graciously  given;  Sept.  ' A nop  6 ijX,  Vulgate  Hammed),  a 
toAver  (^^"2)  of  Jerusalem,  situated  on  the  exterior  Avail 
beyond  the  toAver  of  Meali  in  going  from  the  Sheep- 
gate  toAvarils  the  Fisli-gate  (Neh.  iii,  1 ; xii,39).  It  is 
also  mentioned  in  Jer.  xxxi,38 ; Zech.  xiAr,  10.  Its  po- 
sition appears  to  liaA  e been  at  the  north-eastern  comer 
of  the  present  mosque  inclosure  (see  Strong’s  Harmony 
and  Expos.,  Append,  ii,  p.  19).  Schwarz  ( Palest . p.  251) 
also  locates  it  in  this  ATicinitv,  but  absurdly  identifies  it 
Avith  the  toAver  of  Ilippicus.  See  Jerusalem.  Gcse- 
nius  ( Thes.JJeb . s.  v.)  suggests  that  it  may  have  been 
so  called  from  the  name  of  its  founder  or  builder. 

Hana'ni  (Heb  Chanani ',  “>33H,  God  has  gratified  me, 
or  an  abbieviation  of  the  name  Hananiah;  Sept.  'Avavi, 
but  ’Avavia  in  Ezra  x,  10,  and  ’Araiuac  in  Neh.  vii,  2; 
XTdg.  ITaimni),  the  name  of  at  least  three  men. 

1.  One  of  the  sons  of  Ileman,  Avho  (with  his  eleA'en 
kinsmen)  had  charge  of  the  eighteenth  division  of  Le- 
A’itieal  musicians  in  the  appointments  ol’DaA'id  (1  Chron. 
xxv,  4,  25).  B.C.  1014. 

2.  A prophet  Avho  was  sent  to  rebuke  king  Asa  for 
his  Avan t of  faith  in  subsidizing  the  king  of  Syria  against 
the  rh-al  king  Baasha,  Avliereas  he  should  rather  liaA’e 
seized  the  occasion  to  triumph  oA'er  both  (2  Chron.  xvi, 
1-10).  In  punishment  for  this  defection  from  the  true 
God,  he  Avas  threatened  Avith  a troublous  residue  to  his 
reign.  See  Asa.  Enraged  at  the  prophet's  boldness, 
the  king  seized  and  thrust  him  into  prison,  from  which, 
liOAvever,  he  appears  to  have  been  soon  released.  B.C. 
928.  This  Hanani  is  probably  the  same  Avith  the  father 
of  the  prophet  Jehu,  Avho  denounced  king  Baasha  (1 
Kings  xvi,  7),  also  king  Jehoshaphat  (2  Cliron.  xix,  2; 
com]),  xx,  34). 

3.  Apparently  a brother  of  Nehemiah,  Avho  went  from 
Jerusalem  to  Sliushan, being  sent  most  probably  bv  Ezra, 
and  brought  that  information  respecting  the  miserable 
condition  of  the  returned  JeAVS  which  led  to  the  mission 
of  Nehemiah  (Neh.  i,  2).  Hanani  came  back  to  Judaea, 


56 


HAN  BY 


IIAXANIAH 

probablv  along  witli  his  brother,  and,  together  with  one 
llnnaniah,  was  appointed  to  take  charge  of  the  gates  of 
Jerusalem,  and  see  that  they  were  opened  in  the  morn- 
ing and  closed  in  the  evening  at  the  appointed  time 
(Neh.  vii,  2).  The  circumstances  of  the  time  and  place 
rendered  this  an  important  and  responsible  duty,  not 
unattended  with  danger.  B.C.  4-10. — Kitto,  s.  v. 

Hanani'ah  (Ileb.  [andChald.]  Chunanyah', n*2IH, 
also  [ l Chron.  xxv,  23 ; 2 Chron.  xxvi,  1 1 ; Jer.  xxxvi, 
12  in  the  prolonged  form  Chananya'hn,  'rPIin,  whom 
Jehovah  has  graciously given, comp.  Ananias, etc.;  Sept. 
'Avavia  or  'Avaviac,  Yulg.  Manama),  the  name  of  a 
number  of  men.  See  also  Ananiaii  ; Annas,  etc. 

1.  A “son”  of  Shashak.  and  chief  of  the  tribe  of  Ben- 
jamin (1  Chron.  viii,  24).  B.C.  apparently  between 
1(512  and  1093. 

2.  One  of  the  sons  of  lleman,  who  (with  eleven  of 
his  kinsmen)  was  appointed  by  David  to  superintend 
the  sixteenth  division  (blowers  on  horns)  of  Levitieal 
musicians  (I  Chron.  xxv,  4, 23).  B.C.  1014. 

3.  One  of  king  Uzziah’s  chief  military  officers  (2 
Chron.  xxvi,  11).  B.C.  803. 

4.  The  father  of  Shelemiah  and  grandfather  of  Irijah, 
which  last  was  the  guard  of  the  gate-  of  Benjamin  who 
arrested  Jeremiah  (Jer.  xxxvii,  13).  B.C.  considerably 
ante  5*9. 

5.  Father  of  Zedckiah,  which  latter  was  one  of  the 
“princes”  to  whom  Michaiah  reported  Baruch's  reading 
of  Jeremiah’s  roll  (Jer.  xxxvi,  12).  B.C.  ante  G05. 

6.  Son  of  Azur,  a false  prophet  of  Gibeon,  who,  by 
opposing  his  prophecies  to  those  of  Jeremiah,  brought 
upon  himself  the  terrible  sentence,  “Thou  shalt  die  this 
year,  because  thou  hast  taught  rebellion  against  the 
Lord.”  lie  died  accordingly  (Jer.  xxviii,  1 sq.).  B.C. 
595. — Ivitto,  s.v.  Hananiah  publicly  prophesied  in  the 
Temple  that  within  two  years  Jeconiah  and  all  his  fel- 
low-captives, with  the  vessels  of  the  Lord’s  house  tvhich 
Nebuchadnezzar  had  taken  away  to  Babylon,  should  be 
brought  back  to  Jerusalem  (Jer.  xxviii):  an  indication 
that  treacherous  negotiations  were  already  secretly 
opened  with  Pharaoh-Ilophra  (who  had  just  succeeded 
Psammia  on  the  Egyptian  throne),  and  that  strong 
hopes  were  entertained  of  the  destruction  of  the  Baby- 
lonian power  .by  him.  The  preceding  chapter  (xxvii, 
3)  shows  further  that  a league  was  already  in  progress 
between  Judah  and  the  neighboring  nations  of  Edom, 
Ammon,  Moati,  Tyre,  and  Zidon,  for  the  purpose  of  or- 
ganizing resistance  to  Nebuchadnezzar,  in  combination, 
no  doubt,  with  the  projected  movements  of  Pharaoh- 
Ilophra.  Hananiah  corroborated  his  prophecy  by  tak- 
ing oil' from  the  neck  of  Jeremiah  the  yoke  which  he 
wore  by  divine  command  (Jer.  xxvii)  in  token  of  the 
subjection  of  Judiea  and  the  neighboring  countries  to 
the  Babylonian  empire),  and  breaking  it,  adding,  “Thus 
saitli  Jehovah,  Even  so  will  I break  the  yoke  of  Nebu- 
chadnezzar, king  of  Babylon,  from  the  neck  of  all  na- 
tions within  the  space  of  two  full  years.”  But  Jeremi- 
ah was  bid  to  go  and  tell  Hananiah  that  for  the  wooden 
yokes  which  lie  had  broken  he  should  make  yokes  of 
iron,  so  firm  was  the  dominion  of  Babylon  destined  to 
be  for  seventy  years.  The  prophet  Jeremiah  added 
this  rebuke  and  prediction  of  Hananiah 's  death,  the  ful- 
filment of  which  closes  the  history  of  this  false  prophet. 
The  history  of  Hananiah  is  of  great  interest,  as  throw- 
ing much  light  upon  the  Jewish  politics  of  that  event- 
ful time,  divided  as  parties  wore  into  the  partisans  of 
Babylon  on  one  hand,  and  Egypt  on  the  other.  It  also 
exhibits  the  machinery  of  false  prophecies,  by  which 
the  irreligious  party  sought  to  promote  their  own  poli- 
cy, in  n very  distinct  form.  At  the  same  time,  too,  that 
it  explains  in  general  the  sort  of  political  calculation  on 
which  such  false  prophecies  were  hazarded,  it  supplies 
an  important  clew  in  particular  by  which  to  judge  of 
the  date  of  Pharnoh-Ilophrn's  (or  Apries’s)  accession  to 
the  Egyptian  throne,  and  the  commencement  of  his  in- 
effectual cllort  to  restore  the  power  of  Egypt  (which 


I had  been  prostrate  since  Necho’s  overthrow,  Jer.  xlvi, 
2)  upon  the  ruins  of  the  Babylonian  empire.  The  lean- 
ing to  Egypt  indicated  by  Hananiah’s  prophecy  as  hav- 
ing begun*  in  the  fourth  of  Zedekiah,  had  in  the  sixth 
of  his  reign  issued  in  open  defection  from  Nebuchadnez- 
zar, and  in  the  guilt  of  perjury,  which  cost  Zedekiah  his 
crown  and  his  life,  as  we  learn  from  Ezek.  xvii,  12-20; 
the  date  being  tixed  by  a comparison  of  Ezek.  viii,  1 
with  xx,  1.  The  temporary  success  of  the  intrigue, 
which  is  described  in  Jer.  xxxvii,  was  speedily  followed 
by  the  return  of  the  Chaldaeans  and  the  destruction  of 
the  city,  according  to  tire  prediction  of  Jeremiah.  This 
history  of  Hananiah  also  illustrates  the  manner  in  which 
the  false  prophets  hindered  the  mission,  and  obstructed 
the  beneficent  effects  of  the  ministry  of  the  true  proph- 
ets, and  affords  a remarkahle  example  of  the  way  in 
which  they  prophesied  smooth  things,  and  said  peace 
when  there  was  no  peace  (compare  1 Kings  xxii,  11,  24, 
25). — Smith,  s.  v.  See  Jeremiah. 

7.  The  original  name  of  one  of  Daniel’s  youthful 
companions  and  one  of  the  “three  Hebrew  children;” 
better  known  by  his  Babylonian  name  Siiadracii  (Dan. 
i;  vi,  7). 

8.  Son  of  Zerubbabel,  and  father  of  Ecphaiah ; one 
of  the  paternal  ancestors  of  Christ  (1  Chron.  iii,  19,  21). 
(See  Strong’s  Harm,  and  Expos,  of  the  Gospels,  p.  1G,  17.) 
B.C.  post  53G.  He  is  possibly  the  same  with  No  10. 
See  Genealogy  of  Christ.- 

9.  One  of  the  “sons”  of  Behai,  an  Israelite  who  re- 
nounced his  Gentile  wife  after  the  return  from  Babylon 
(Ezra  x,  28).  B.C.  459. 

10.  The  “rider  of  the  palace”  “lb),  and  the 

person  who  was  associated  with  Nehemiah’s  brother 
Hanaui  in  the  charge  of  the  gates  of  Jerusalem.  See 
Hanani.  The  high  eulogy  is  bestowed  upon  him  that 
“he  was  a faithful  man,  and  feared  God  above  many” 
(Neh.  vii,  2).  Ilis  office  seems  to  have  hcen  one  of  au- 
thority and  trust,  and  perhaps  the  same  as  that  of  Elia- 
kim,  who  was  “over  the  house”  in  the  reign  of  Heze- 
kiah.  See  Eliakim.  The  arrangements  for  guarding 
the  gates  of  Jerusalem  were  intrusted  to  him  with  Ha- 
nani, the  Tirshatha’s  brother.  Prideaux  thinks  that 
the  appointment  of  Hanani  and  Hananiah  indicates  that 
at  this  time  Nehemiah  returned  to  Persia,  but  without 
sufficient  ground.  Nehemiah  seems  to  have  been  con- 
tinuously at  Jerusalem  for  some  time  after  the  comple- 
tion of  the  wall  (vii,  5,  Go;  viii,  9;  x,  1).  If,  too,  the 
term  means,  as  Gcsenins  supposes,  and  as  the 

use  of  it  in  Neh.  ii,  8,  makes  not  improbable,  not  the 
palace, hut  the  fortress  of  the  Temple,  called  by  Josephus 
fiapiq,  there  is  still  less  reason  to  imagine  Nehemiah’s 
absence.  In  this  case  Hananiah  would  be  a priest,  per- 
haps of  the  same  family  as  the  preceding.  The  render- 
ing, moreover,  of  Neh.  vii,  2,  3,  should  probably  be, 
“And  I enjoined  (or  gave  orders  to)  Hanani  . . . and 
Hananiah,  the  captains  of  the  fortress  . . . conceiving 
Jerusalem,  and  said,  Let  not  the  gates,”  etc.  There  is 
no  authority  for  rendering  'hv  by  “over” — ‘‘He  gave 
such  an  one  charge  over  Jerusalem.”  The  passages 
quoted  by  Gesenius  are  not  one  of  them  to  the  point. — 
Smith,  s.  v. 

11.  The  son  of  “one  of  the  apothecaries”  (or  makers 
of  the  sacred  ointments  and  incense,  Exod.  xxx,  22-88), 
who  repaired  part  of  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  (Neh.  iii, 
8);  possibly  the  same  with  No.  9.  B.C.  44G. 

12.  A son  of  Shelemiah,  and  one  of  the  priests  who 
repaired  those  parts  of  the  wall  of  Jerusalem  opposite 
their  houses  (Neh.  iii,  30).  B.C.  44G. 

13.  A priest,  apparently  son  of  Jeremiah,  after  the 
captivity  (Neh.  xii,  12) ; probably  the  same  with  one  of 
those  wlio  celebrated  the  completion  of  the  walls  of  Je- 
rusalem (ver.  41).  B.C.  446. 

Hanby,  Thomas,  an  English  Wesleyan  preacher, 
was  horn  at  Carlisle  Dec.  10,  1733;  was  left  an  orphan 
at  seven,  and  hound  to  a trade  at  twelve.  He  had  little 
education,  blit  had  serious  thoughts  from  infancy,  and 
was  confirmed  at  thirteen.  Some  time  after,  through 


HANCOCK 


57 


HAND 


Methodist  influence,  he  was  converted.  In  1754  he  be- 
gan to  preach,  and,  during  his  first  year  of  work,  was 
often  in  danger  of  violent  death  from  mobs.  In  1755 
he  was  admitted  into  the  itinerancy.  lie  afterwards 
preached  in  most  of  the  cities  of  the  kingdom.  He  died 
at  Nottingham  Dec.  29, 1796.  Mr.  Ilanbv’s  labors  tend- 
ed greatly  to  the  spread  of  vital  religion  among  some 
of  the  most  abandoned  and  violent  districts  of  England. 
See  Jackson,  Lives  of  Early  Methodist  Preachers , i,  274. 
(G.L.T.) 

Hancock,  Thomas,  a patron  of  Harvard  College, 
lie  left  most  of  his  property  to  his  nephew,  governor 
Hancock,  but  yet  bequeathed  £1000  for  the  foundation 
of  a professorship  of  the  Hebrew  and  other  Oriental  lan- 
guages at  Harvard;  £1000  to  the  Society  for  propaga- 
ting the  Gospel  among  the  Indians,  and  £600  to  the 
town  of  Boston  for  the  establishment  of  a hospital  for 
the  insane.  He  died  at  Boston  August  1, 1764. — Ann. 
Register , 1764. 

Hand  (kV' ,yad , the  open  palm ; Si 2,  Jcaph,  the  hollow 
of  the  partly-closed  hand;  Greek  %£ip;  yarnin', 

the  right  hand,  StEia  ; bill),  setniiT,  the  left  hand,  dpia- 
repd,  eviovvpov),  the  principal  organ  of  feeling,  rightly 
denominated  by  Galen  the  instrument  of  instruments, 
since  this  member  is  wonderfidly  adapted  to  the  purposes 
for  which  it  was  designed,  anil  serves  to  illustrate  the 
wisdom  and  providence  of  the  great  Creator  (The  Hand, 
its  Mechanism  and  vital  Endowments,  as  evincing  Design , 
by  Sir  Charles  Bell).  Considering  the  multiplex  effica- 
cy of  the  human  hand,  the  control  which  it  has  given 
man,  the  conquest  over  the  external  world  which  it  has 
enabled  him  to  achieve,  and  the  pleasing  and  useful  rev- 
olutions and  improvements  which  it  has  brought  about, 
we  are  not  surprised  to  read  the  glowing  eulogy  in 
which  Cicero  ( De  Xat.  Deor.  ii,  60)  has  indulged  on  the 
subject,  nor  to  find  how  important  is  the  part  which  the 
hand  perlorms  m the  records  of  divine  revelation.  The 
hand  itself  serves  to  distinguish  man  from  other  terres- 
trial beings.  Of  the  two  hands,  the  right  has  a prefer- 
ence derived  from  natural  endowment.  See  LEFT- 
HANDED. 

Hands  are  the  symbols  of  human  action;  pure  hands 
are  pure  actions;  unjust  hands  are  deeds  of  injustice; 
hands  full  of  blood,  actions  stained  with  cruelty,  and  the 
like  (Psa.  xc,  17 ; Job  ix,  80;  1 Tim.  ii,  8;  Isa.  i,  15). 
"Washing  of  the  hands  was  the  symbol  of  innocence  (Psa. 
xxvi,  6;  lxxiii,  13).  Of  this  Pilate  furnishes  an  exam- 
ple (Matt,  xxvii,  24).  It  was  the  custom  of  the  Jews  to 
wash  their  hands  before  anil  after  meat  (see  Mark  vii,3 ; 
Matt,  vi,  2;  Luke  xi,  88).  Washing  of  hands  was  a 
symbol  of  expiation,  as  might  be  shown  by  numerous 
references ; and  of  sanctification,  as  appears  from  several 
passages  (1  Cor.  vi,  1 1 ; Isa.  1, 16 ; Psa.  xxiv,  3,  4).  See 
Washing  of  Hands.  Paul,  in  1 Tim.  ii, 8,  says,  “I will 
therefore  that  men  pray  everywhere,  lifting  up  holy 
hands,"  etc.  (see  Job  xi,  13, 14).  ' The  elevation  or  ex- 
tension of  the  right  hand  was  also  the  ancient  method 
of  voting  in  popular  assemblies,  as  indicated  by  the 
Greek  term  yeiporoFew  (Acts  xiv,  28;  2 Cor.  viii,  19). 
In  Psa.  lxxvii,  2,  for  “sore,”  the  margin  of  our  version 
has  “ hand;”  and  the  correct  sense  is,  “ My  hands  in  the 
night  were  spread  out,  and  ceased  not.” 

To  smite  the  hands  together  over  the  head  was  a ges- 
ture of  despairing  grief  (2  Sam.  xiii,  19;  Jer.  ii,37).  The 
expression  in  Jer.  ii,  37,  “Thy  hands  upon  thy  head,” 
may  be  explained  by.  the  act  of  Tamar  in  laying  her 
hand  on  her  head  as  a sign  of  her  degradation  and  sor- 
row (2  Sam.  xiii,  19).  The  expression  “Though  hand 
join  in  hand"  in  Prov.  xi,  21, is  simply  “hand  to  hand,” 
and  signifies  through  all  ages  and  generations,  ever: 
“ through  all  generations  the  wicked  shall  not  go  un- 
punished.” 

To  the  right  hand  signified  to  the  south,  the  southern 
quarter,  as  the  left  hand  signified  the  north  (Job  xxiii, 
9;  1 Sam.  xxiii,  19;  2 Sam.  xxiv,  5).  The  term  hand 
is  sometimes  used  for  a monument,  a trophy  of  victory . 


(1  Sam.  xv,  12);  a sepulchral  monument,  “Absalom’s 
Place,”  literally  Absalom’s  Hand  (2  Sam.  xviii,  18;  see 
Erdmann,  Monumentuni  A hsalomi,  llelmst.  1740).  So  in 
Isa.lvi,5,  “to  them  will  I give  a place  within  my  walls 
— a monument  (or  portion)  and  a name”  (Gesenius,  Tlie- 
saur.  I Feb.  p.  568). 

To  give  the  right  hand  was  a pledge  of  fidelity,  and 
was  considered  as  confirming  a promise  or  bargain  (2 
Kings  x,  15;  Ezra  x,  19);  spoken  of  the  vanquished 
giving  their  hands  as  a pledge  of  submission  and  fidel- 
ity to  the  victors  (Ezck.  xvii,  18;  Jer.  1, 15;  Lam.  v,6); 
so  to  strike  hands  as  a pledge  of  snretiship  (Prov.  xvii, 
18 ; xxii,  26 ; 2 Chron.  xxx, 8,  margin).  The  right  hand 
was  lifted  up  in  swearing  or  taking  an  oath  (Gen.  xiv, 
22 ; Deut.  xxxii,  40 ; Ezek.  xx,  28 ; Psa.  cxliv,  1 1 ; Isa. 
Ixii,  8) ; similar  is  the  Arabic  oath,  “By  the  right  hand 
of  Allah.”  (See  Taylor’s  Fragments,  No.  278.) 

Hand  in  general  is  the  symbol  of  power  anil  strength, 
and  the  right  hand  more  particularly  so.  To  hold  by 
the  right  hand  is  the  symbol  of  protection  and  favor 
(Psa.  xviii,  35).  To  stand  or  be  at  one’s  right  hand  is 
to  aid  or  assist  any  one  (Psa.  xvi,  8;  cix,  31 ; cx,  5; 
exxi,  5);  so  also  “man  of  thy  right  hand,”  i.  e.  whom 
thou  sustainest,  aidest  (Psa.  lxxx,  17);  “my  hand  is 
with  any  one,”  i.  e.  I aid  him,  am  on  his  side  (1  Sam. 
xxii,  17;  2 Sam.  xxiii,  12;  2 Kings  xxiii,  19);  and  to 
take  or  hold  the  right  hand,  i.  e.  to  sustain,  to  aid  (Psa. 
lxxiii,  23;  Isa.  xli,  13;  xiv,  1).  So  the  right  hand  of 
fellmcship  (Gal.  ii,  9)  signifies  a communication  of  the 
same  power  and  authority.  To  lean  upon  the  hand  of 
another  is  a mark  of  familiarity  and  superiority  (2  Kings 
v,  18;  vii,  17).  To  give  the  hand,  as  to  a master,  is 
the  token  of  submission  and  future  obedience.  Thus,  in 
2 Chron.  xxx,  8,  the  words  in  the  original,  “ Give  the 
hand  unto  tl)e  Lord,”  signify,  Yield  yourselves  unto  the 
Lord.  The  like  phrase  is  used  in  Psa.  lxviii,  31 ; Lam. 
v,  6.  “ Behold,  as  the  eyes  of  servants  look  unto  the 

hand  of  their  masters,  and  as  the  eyes  of  a maiden  unto 
the  hand  of  her  mistress,  so  our  eyes  wait  upon  the 
Lord  our  God”  (Psa.  cxxiii,  2),  which  refers  to  the 
watchful  readiness  of  a servant  to  obey  the  least  sign  of 
command  (Kitto’s  Daily  Bible  Illust.  ad  loc.).  To  kiss 
the  hand  is  an  act  of  homage  (1  Kings  xix,  18;  Job 
xxxi,  27).  To  pour  water  on  any  one’s  hands  signifies 
to  serve  him  (2  Kings  iii,  11).  To  “seal  up  the  hand” 
(Job  xxxvii,  7)  is  to  place  one  in  charge  of  any  special 
business,  for  which  he  will  be  held  accountable.  Marks 
in  the  hands  or  wrists  were  the  tokens  of  servitude,  the 
heathens  being  wont  to  imprint  marks  upon  the  hands 
of  sen-ants,  and  on  such  as  devoted  themselves  to  some 
false  deity.  Thus  in  Zech.  xiii,  6,  the  man,  when  chal- 
lenged for  the  scars  visible  on  his  hands,  would  deny 
that  they  had  proceeded  from  an  idolatrous  cause,  and 
pretend  that  they  were  the  effects  of  the  wounds  he  had 
given  himself  for  the  loss  of  his  friends.  The  right 
hand  stretched  out  is  the  symbol  of  immediate  exertion 
of  power  (Exod.  xv,  12);  sometimes  the  exercise  of 
mercy  (Isa.  lxv,  2 ; Prov.  i,  24). 

The  hand  of  God  is  spoken  of  as  the  instrument  of 
power,  and  to  it  is  ascribed  that  which  strictly  belongs 
to  God  himself  (Job  xxvii,  11 ; Psa.  xxxi,  16;  xcv,  4; 
Isa.  Ixii,  3;  Prov.  xxi,  1 ; Acts  iv,  28 ; 1 Pet.  v,  6).  So 
the  hand  of  the.  Lord  being  upon  or  with  any  one  de- 
notes divine  aid  or  favor  (Ezra  vii,  6,  28;  viii,  18,  22, 
13 ; Neh.  ii,  8 ; Isa.  i,  25 ; Luke  i,  66 ; Acts  xi,  21) ; fur- 
ther, the  hand  of  the  Lord  is  upon  or  against  thee,  de- 
notes punishment  (Exod.  ix,  3;  Deut.  ii,  15;  Juilg.  ii, 
15;  1 Sam.  vii,  13;  xii,  15;  Ezek.  xiii,  9;  Amos  i.  8; 
Acts  xiii,  11).  In  Job  xxxiii,  7,  “ my  hand  shall  not  be 
heavy  upon  thee,”  the  original  term  is  “IN,  ekeph  ; and 
the  passage  signifies  “my  dignity  shall  not  weigh  heavy 
upon  thee”  (Gesenius,  s.  v.).  The  hand  of  God  upon  a 
prophet  signifies  the  immediate  operation  of  his  Holy 
Spirit  on  the  soul  or  body  of  the  prophet,  as  in  1 Kings 
xviii,  46 ; 2 Kings  iii,  15 ; Ezek.  i,  3 ; iii,  22 ; viii,  1.  As 
the  hand,  so  also  th efnger  of  God  denotes  his  power  or 
Spirit  (see  Luke  xi,  20,  and  comp.  Matt,  xii,  28).  Thus 


IIAXD 


58 


HANDFUL 


our  Saviour  cast  out  devils  or  (hemons  by  liis  bare  com- 
mand, whereas  the  Jews  cast  them  out  only  by  the  in- 
vocation of  t lie  name  of  God,  So  in  Exod.  viii,  19,  the 
finger  of  Hod  is  a work  which  none  but  God  could  per- 
forin. See  Aim. 

The  hands  of  the  high-priest  were  laid  on  the  head 
of  the  scape-goat  when  the  sins  of  the  people  were  pub- 
licly confessed  (Lev.  xvi,  *21).  Witnesses  laid  their 
hands  on  the  head  of  the  accused  person,  as  it  were  to 
signify  that  they  charged  upon  him  the  guilt  of  his 
blood,' and  freed  themselves  from  it  (Dent,  xiii,  9;  xvii, 
7).  The  Hebrews,  when  presenting  their  sin-offerings 
at  the  tabernacle,  confessed  their  sins  while  they  laid 
their  hands  upon  the  victim  (Lev.  i,  4).  To  “till  one’s 
hands,"  is  to  take  possession  of  the  priesthood,  to  perform 
the  functions  of  that  office;  because  in  this  ceremony 
those  parts  of  the  victim  which  were  to  be  offered  were 
put  into  the  hand  of  the  new-made  priest  (Judg.  xvii,  5, 
12 ; Lev.  xvi,  32 ; 1 Kings  xiii,  33).  Jacob  laid  his  hands 
on  Ephraim  and  Manasseh  when  he  gave  them  his  last 
blessing  (Gen.  xlviii,  14).  The  high-priest  stretched 
out  his  hands  to  the  people  as  often  as  he  recited  the 
solemn  form  of  blessing  (Lev.  ix,  22).  Our  Saviour  laid 
his  hands  upon  the  children  that  were  presented  to  him 
and  blessed  them  (Mark  x,  1G).  (See  Tiemeroth,  De 
Xfipo^foa'p  et  yfipoXoyqr,  Erford.  1754.) 

Imposition  of  hands  formed  at  an  early  period  a part 
of  the  ceremonial  observed  on  the  appointment  and  con- 
secration of  persons  to  high  and  holy  undertakings.  In 
Numb,  xxvii,  19,  Jehovah  is  represented  as  thus  speak- 
ing to  Moses, ‘-Take  thee  Joshua,  the  son  of  Nun,  a 
man  in  whom  is  the  spirit,  and  lay  thine  hand  upon 
him,  and  set  him  before  Eleazar  the  priest,  and  before 
all  the  congregation,  and  give  him  a charge  in  their 
sight,"  etc. : where  it  is  obvious  that  the  laying  on  of 
hands  did  neither  originate  nor  communicate  divine 
gifts;  for  Joshua  had  “the  spirit”  before  he  received 
imposition  of  hands;  but  it  was  merely  an  instrumental 
sign  Ibr  marking  him  out  individu  illy,  and  setting 
him  apart,  in  sight  of  the  congregation, *to  his  arduous 
work.  Similar  appears  to  he  the  import  of  the  observ- 
ance in  the  primitive  Church  of  Christ  (Acts  viii,  15- 
L;  1 lim.  iv,  14;  2 Tim.  i,  G).  A corruption  of  this 
doctrine  was  that  the  laying  on  of  hands  gave  of  itself 
divine  powers,  and  on  this  account  Simon,  the  magician 
(Acts  viii,  IS),  offered  money,  saying,  “Give  me  also 
t liis  power,  that  on  whomsoever  1 lay  hands  he  may  re- 
ceive the  Holy  Ghost,”  intending  probably  to  carry  on 
a gainful  trade  by  communicating  the  gift  to  others. 
See  Imposition  of  Hanks. 

'fhe  phrase  “ sitting  at  the  right  hand  of  God,”  as 
applied  to  the  Saviour,  is  derived  from  the  fact  that 
with  earthly  princes  a position  on  the  right  hand  of  the 
throne  was  accounted  the  chief  place  of  honor,  dignity, 
ami  power:  “upon  thy  right  hand  did  stand  the  queen” 

( I’m.  x 1 v,  9;  comp.  I Kings  ii,  19;  Rsa.  lxxx,  17).  The 
immediate  passage  out  of  which  sprang  the  phraseology 
employed  by  Jesus  may  be  found  in  I'sa.  cx,  I : “ Jeho- 
val.  said  .into  my  Lord,  sit  thou  at  my  right  hand  until 
I make  thine  enemies  thy  footstool.”  Accordingly  the 
Saviour  declares  before  ( ’aiaphas  (Matt.xxvi,  04;  Mark 
xiv,  02  >,  “V,.  shall  see  the  Son  of  man  sitting  on  the 
right  hand  of  power,  and  coming  in  the  clouds  of  heav- 
en;" where  the  meaning  obviously  is  that  the  Jews  of 
that  day  should  have  manifest  proof  that  Jesus  held  the 
most  eminent  place  in  the  divine  favor,  and  that  his 
present  humiliation  would  he  succeeded  bv  glorv  maj- 
esty, and  power  (Luke  xxiv,  20;  1 Tim.' iii,  10)  So 
when  it  is  mid  ( Mark  xvi,  19;  Rom.  viii,  31  ; Col. 'iii,  1 ; 

I l'et  ill,  22;  Hob.  i,  3;  viii,  1)  that  Jesus  “sits  at  the 
r|ght  hand  of  God,”  “at  the  right  hand  of  the  Majesty 
on  high,  we  arc  obviously  to  understand  the  assertion 
to  that>  *»  hi*  Eat  her,  so  he  worketh  always  (John 
v»  J'  J for  ‘he  advancement  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
and  the  salvation  of  the  world. 

In  < ol.  ii,  13,  U,  “the  law  of  commandments  con- 
tained in  ordinances”  (Eplies.  ii,  15)  is  designated  “the 


handwriting  of  ordinances  that  was  against  us,”  which 
Jesus  blotted  out,  and  took  away,  nailing  it  to  his  cross; 
phraseology  which  indicates  the  abolition,  on  the  part 
of  the  Saviour,  of  the  Mosaic  law  (Woltius,  Curve  Philo- 
log.  in  X.  T.  iii,  1G). 

Hand-breadth  (Heb.  ttS?,  te'phaeh,  or  HSli,  to'~ 
phach ),  the  pahn,  used  as  a measure  of  four  fingers, 
equal  to  about  four  inches  (Exod.  xxv,  25;  xxxvii,  12; 
1 Kings  vii,  20;  2 Chron.  iv,  5;  Ezek.  xl,  5,43;  Jcr.  Iii, 
21).  In  Psa. xxxix,  5,  the  expression  “Thou  liast  made 
my  days  palm-breadths,”  signifies  very  short. 

Handel,  Georg  Friedrich,  one  of  the  greatest  of 
musical  composers  and  musicians,  was  horn  at  Halle,  in 
the  Prussian  province  of  Saxony,  Feb.  24,  1G84.  lie 
manifested  in  early  youth  an  extraordinary  passion  for 
music,  and  at  the  age  of  seven  was  a good  player  on  the 
! piano  and  the  organ.  At  the  age  of  nine  he  began  to 
| compose  for  the  Church  service,  and  continued  doing  so 
j every  week  until  he  was  thirteen.  In  1G98  he  was  sent 
to  Berlin, where  he  enjoyed  the  instruction  of  Attilio.  An 
1 offer  by  the  elector  of  Brandenburg  was  declined  by  his 
father.  On  the  death  of  the  latter  in  1703,  he  went  to 
Hamburg,  where  he  played  a violin  in  the  orchestra  of 
the  opera,  and  composed  his  first  opera,  Almira.  lie 
next  visited  Italy,  where  he  wrote  operas  for  Florence, 
Venice,  and  Borne.  On  his  return  from  Borne  he  was, 
in  1709,  appointed  eliapel-master  by  the  elector  of  Han- 
over. In  1710  he  paid  a short  visit  to  England,  and  in 
1712  he  took  up  his  permanent  abode  in  that  country. 
He  composed,  in  honor  of  the  peace  of  Utrecht,  his  cele- 
brated Te  Deuni  and  Jubilate,  and  numerous  operas. 
A Royal  Academy  was  established  (1720)  and  placed 
under  his  management,  but  his  violent  temper  involved 
him  in  many  troubles;  an  opposition  house  was  started, 
and  soon  both  failed,  with  a loss  to  Ilandcl  of  £10,000. 
Soon  after  he  quitted  the  stage  altogether,  in  order  to  de- 
vote himself  wholly  to  the  composition  of  oratorios.  His 
oratorio  Esther  had  appeared  as  early  an  1720;  in  1732 
it  was  produced  at  the  Haymarket  Theatre  ton  nights 
in  succession.  In  1733  he  produced  at  Oxford  the  ora- 
torio Athalia ; in  1730,  Alexander's  Feast;  in  1738,  Is- 
rael in  Egypt  and  V allegro  ed  il penseroso.  On  the  12th 
of  April,  1741,  the  Messiah,  the  most  sublime  of  his 
compositions,  was  produced  for  the  first  time  in  London, 
where  it  met, however, with  no  favor;  while  in  Dublin, 
on  the  other  hand,  it  was  received  with  the  greatest 
applause.  Illindel  remained  in  Dublin  for  nine  months, 
and  met  there  with  a generous  support.  On  his  return 
to  London  he  composed  his  Samson,  and  for  the  benefit 
of  the  Foundling  Hospital  again  produced  the  Messiah, 
which  now  secured  to  him  a general  admiration;  and, 
being  repeated  annually,  brought  to  the  Foundling  Hos- 
pital, from  1749  to  1777,  £10,300.  In  1751  Handel  be- 
came blind,  but.  he  still  continued  to  compose  and  to 
play  on  the  piano.  He  died,  as  he  wished,  on  Good 
Friday,  April  13,  1759, “in  hopes,”  he  said,  “of  meeting 
his  good  God,  his  sweet  Lord  and  Saviour,  on  the  day 
ol  his  resurrection.”  Among  his  works,  which  are  in 
the  queen’s  library,  are  50  operas — 8 German,  20  Ital- 
ian, 1 0 English ; 20  oratorios,  a great  quantity  of  Church 
music,  cantatas,  songs,  and  instrumental  pieces.  He 
was  a wonderful  musician,  and  his  compositions  are 
often  full  of  grandeur  and  sublimity.  His  operas  are 
seldom  performed,  but  liis  oratorios  hold  the  same  place 
in  music  that  in  the  English  drama  is  .accorded  to  the 
plays  of  Shakspoaro ; and  the  Iliindel  festivals,  lasting 
several  days,  in  which  they  are  .performed  by  thousands 
of  singers  and  musicians,  are  the  grandest  musical  ex- 
hibitions of  our  times.  Roe  V.  Reliolcher,  The  Life  of 
Handel  (London,  1857) ; Chrvsander,  G.  F.  Handel  { Lpz. 
1N.>8);  Gcrviniis,  Handel  and  Shakspeare  (Lpz.  1808); 
Contemporary  Review,  April,  1 809,  p.  503.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Handful,  a representative  in  the  A.  Vers,  of  several 
Heb.  terms  and  phrases:  prop,  ts  id?,  the  fll  of  the 
hand  (1  Kings  xvii,  12),  or  5)3  id?,  to  fill  the  hand 


HANDICRAFT 


59 


HANDICRAFT 


(“take  a handful,”  Lev.  ix,  17);  also  *|r*;’p,  a /tf-full 
(Lev.  ii,  2;  v,  12;  vi,  15;  but  sheaf  in  Gen.  xli.  47),  or 
to  press,  sc.  the  fist  full  (“  take  a handful,”  Numb, 
v,  2d):  and  the  hollow  palm  itself  (Isa.  xl,  12), 

hence  its  fill  (1  Kings  xx,  10;  Ezek.  xiii,  19);  less  prop. 

(Exod.  ix,  8),  the  two  fists  (as  rendered  Prov. 
xxxj  4;  elsewhere  “hands”)  improp.  ‘T'Er  (Jer.  ix, 
22),  and  (liuth  ii,  16),  which  denotes  a sheaf  (as 
the  former  is  elsewhere  rendered),  the  one  as  standing 
uncut,  and  the  other  as  cut  and  housed;  falsely 
abundance  (Psa.  Ixxii,  16). 

Handicraft,  a general  term  (not  occurring,  how- 
ever, in  the  Bible)  for  any  manufacture.  See  Artifi- 
cer. Although  the  extent  cannot  be  ascertained  to 
which  those  arts  were  carried  whose  invention  is  as- 
cribed to  Tubal-Cain  (Gen.  iv,  22),  it  is  probable  that 
this  was  proportionate  to  the  nomadic  or  settled  habits 
of  the  antediluvian  races.  Among  nomad  races,  as  the 
Bedouin  Arabs,  or  the  tribes  of  Northern  and  Central 
Asia  and  of  America,  the  wants  of  life,  as  well  as  the 
arts  which  supply  them,  are  few;  and  it  is  only  among 
the  city  dwellers  that  both  of  them  are  multiplied  and 
make  progress.  The  following  particulars  may  be  gath- 
ered respecting  the  various  handicrafts  mentioned  in 
the  Scriptures.  See  Craftsman. 

1.  The  preparation  of  iron  for  use  either  in  war,  in 
agriculture,  or  for  domestic  purposes,  was  doubtless  one 
of  the  earliest  applications  of  labor;  and,  together  with 
iron,  working  in  brass,  or,  rather,  copper  alloyed,  with 
tin,  bronze  (r  «*n:,  Gesenius,  Thes.  Ileb.  p.  8 75),  is  men- 
tioned in  the  same  passage  as  practiced  in  antediluvian 
times  (Gen.  iv,  22).  The  use  of  this  last  is  usually  con- 
sidered as  an  art  of  higher  antiquity  even  than  that  of 
iron  (Hesiod,  1 Boris  and  Dags,  p.  150;  Wilkinson,  Awe. 
Eg.  ii,  152,  abridgment),  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that 
metal,  whether  iron  or  bronze,  must  have  been  largely 
used,  either  in  material  or  in  tools,  for  the  construction 
of  the  ark  (Gen.  vi,  14,  16).  Whether  the  weapons  for 
war  or  chase  used  by  the  early  warriors  of  Syria  and 
Assyria,  or  the  arrow-heads  of  the  archer  Ishmael,  were 
of  bronze  or  iron,  cannot  be  ascertained ; but  we  know 
that  iron  was  used  for  warlike  purposes  by  the  Assyrians 
(Layard,  Xin.  and  Bab.  p.  194);  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
that  stone-tipped  arrows,  as  was  the  case  also  in  Mexi- 
co, were  used  in  the  earlier  times  by  the  Egyptians,  as 
well  as  the  Persians  and  Greeks,  and  that  stone  or  flint 
knives  continued  to  be  used  by  them,  and  by  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  desert,  and  also  by  the  Jews, 
for  reh'gious  purposes,  after  the  introduction 
of  iron  into  general  use  (Wilkinson,  Awe. 

Eg.  i,  353,  354;  ii,  163;  Prescott,  Mexico , i, 

118;  Exod.  iv,  25;  Josh,  v,  2 ; 1st  Egypt, 
room,  Brit.  Mus.  ease  36,  37).  In  the  con- 
struction of  the  tabernacle,  copper,  but  no 
iron,  appears  to  have  been  used,  though  the 
utility  of  iron  was  at  the  same  period  well 
known  to  the  Jews,  both  from  their  own  use 
of  it  and  from  their  Egyptian  education, 
while  the  Canaanitish  inhabitants  of  Pales- 
tine and  Syria'  were  in  full  possession  of 
its  use  both  for  warlike  and  domestic  purposes  (Exod. 
xx,  25;  xxv,  3;  xxvii,  19;  Numb,  xxxv,  16;  Dent,  iii, 
11;  iv,  20;  viii,  9;  Josh,  viii,  31 ; xvii,  16,  18).  After 
the  establishment  of  the  Jews  in  Canaan,  the  occupa- 
tion of  a smith  (*j“in)  became  recognised  as  a distinct 
employment  (1  Sam.  xiii,  1 9).  The  designer  of  a higher 
order  appears  to  have  been  called  specially  3 ’,1*1"!  (Ge- 
senius, p.  531 ; Exod.  xxxv,  30,  35;  2 Chron.  xxvi,  15; 
Saalschiitz,  Arch.  Ilebr.  e.  14,  § 16).  The  smith’s  work 
(including  workers  in  the  precious  metals)  and  its  re- 
sults are  often  mentioned  in  Scripture  (2  Sam.  xii,  31 ; 
1 Kings  vi,  7 ; 2 Chron.  xxvi,  14 ; Isa.  xliv,  12 ; liv,  16). 
Among  the  captives  taken  to  Babylon  by  Nebuchad- 
nezzar were  1000  “ craftsmen”  and  smiths,  who  were 


probably  of  the  superior  kind  (2  Kings  xxiv,  16;  Jet 
xxix,  2).  See  Ciiarasiiim. 

The  worker  in  gold  and  silver  (r“;I£ ; apyiipoKoirog ; 
XwvtvTtjg,  argenturins,  aurifex)  must  have  found  em- 
ployment both  among  the  Hebrews  and  the  neighboring 
nations  in  very  early  times,  as  appears  from  the  orna- 
ments sent  by  Abraham  to  llebekali  (Gen.  xxiv,  22,  53; 
xxxv,  4;  xxxviii,  18;  Dent,  vii,  25).  But,  whatever 
skill  the  Hebrews  possessed,  it  is  quite  clear  that  they 
must  have  leanied  much  from  Egypt  and  its  “ iron-fur- 
naces,” both  in  metal-work  and  in  the  arts  of  setting 
and  polishing  precious  stones;  arts  which  were  turned 
to  account  both  in  the  construction  of  the  Tabernacle 
and  the  making  of  the  priests’  ornaments,  and  also  in 
the  casting  of  the  golden  calf  as  well  as  its  destruction 
by  Moses,  probably,  as  suggested  by  Goguet,  by  a meth- 
od which  he  had  learnt  in  Egypt  (Gen.  xli,  42;  Exod. 
iii,  22 ; xii,  35 ; xxxi,  4,  5 ; xxxii,  2,  4,  20,  24 ; xxxvii, 
17, 24 ; xxxviii,  4, 8,  24,  24, 25 ; xxxix,  6,  39 ; Nch.  iii, 
8;  Isa.  xliv,  12).  Various  processes  of  the  goldsmiths’ 
work,  including  operations  in  the  raw  material,  are  illus- 
trated by  Egyptian  monuments  (Wilkinson,  A nc.  Eg.  ii, 
136, 152, 162).  See  Goldsmith,  etc. 

After  the  conquest,  frequent  notices  are  found  both  of 
moulded  and  wrought  metal,  including  soldering,  which 
last  had  long  been  known  in  Egypt;  but  the  Phoeni- 
cians appear  to  have  possessed  greater  skill  than  the 
Jews  in  these  arts,  at  least  in  Solomon’s  time  (Judg.viii, 
24,27;  xvii,  4;  1 Kings  vii,  13,45,46;  Isa.  xli,  7;  Wisd. 
xv,  4;  Ecclus.  xxxviii,  28;  Bar.  vi,  50,55,  57 ; Wilkin- 
son, ii,  162).  See  Zarepiiath.  Even  in  the  desert, 
mention  is  made  of  beating  gold  into  plates,  cutting  it 
into  wire,  and  also  of  setting  precious  stones  in  gold 
(Exod.  xxxix,  3, 6,  etc. ; Beckmann,  Hist,  of  Inv.  ii,  414 ; 
Gesenius,  p.  1229).  See  Metal. 

Among  the  tools  of  the  smith  are  mentioned  tongs 
(E"'nj^?'3.  \aj3ic.  forceps,  Gesenius,  p.  761 ; Isa.  vi,  6), 
hammer  (w"E3,  <r<pvpd , malleus,  Gisen.  p.  1101),  anvil 
(EES,  Gesenius,  p.  1118),  bellows  (PISE,  (pva^riip,  sana- 
torium, Gesenius,  p.  896 ; Isa.  xli,  7 ; Jer.  vi,  29 ; Ecclus. 
xxxviii,  28;  Wilkinson,  ii,  316).  See  each  word. 

In  the  N.  T.,  Alexander  “the  coppersmith”  (o  \a\- 
Ktvc)  of  Ephesus  is  mentioned,  where  also  was  carried 
on  that  trade  in  “silver  shrines”  ( vaoi  dpyvpm)  which 
was  represented  by  Demetrius  the  silversmith  ( dpyvpo - 
kotcoc)  as  being  in  danger  from  the  spread  of  Christian- 
ity (Acts  xix,24,28;  2 Tim.iv,14).  tree  Coppersmith. 

2.  The  work  of  the  carpenter  (E'-Iir  '““n,  rtKTwv , 


artifex  fignarius)  is  often  mentioned  in  Scripture  (e.  g. 
Gen.  vi,  14  ; Exod.  xxxvii;  Isa.  xliv,  13).  In  the  pal- 
ace built  by  David  for  himself,  the  workmen  employed 
were  chiefly  Phoenicians  sent  by  Hiram  (2  Sam.  v,  11; 
1 Chron.  xiv,  1),  as  most  probably  were  those,  or  at  least 
the  principal  of  those  who  were  employed  by  Solomon 
in  his  works  (1  Kings  v,  6).  But  iii  the  repairs  of  the 
Temple,  executed  under  Joash,  king  of  Judah,  and  also 
in  the  rebuilding  under  Zcruhbabcl,  no  mention  is  made 
>f  foreign  workmen,  though  in  the  latter  case  the  tim- 
ber is  expressly  said  to  have  been  brought  by  sea  to 
Joppa  by  Zidouians  (2  Kings  xi,  11 ; 2 Chron.  xxiv,  12; 
Ezra  iii,  7).  That  the  Jewish  carpenters  must  have 
been  able  to  carve  with  some  skill  is  evident  from  Ic-a. 
xli,  7 ; xliv,  13,  in  which  last  passage  some  of  the  im- 


HANDICRAFT 


60 


HANDICRAFT 


Tools  of  an  Egyptian  Carpenter.  (Wilkinson.) 

Fit;*.  1,2, 3,  4.  Chisels  and  drills  ; 5.  Part  of  drill  ; 6.  Nut  of  wood  belonging  to  drill: 
7 H.  Saws  ; 9.  Morn  of  oil ; 10.  Mullet;  11.  Basket  of  nails;  12.  Basket  which  held 
the  tools. 


The  (2  Kings  xii,  12)  were  probably 

masftv-niasoiis  (“  builders,”  ver.  11).  Among 
their  implements  are  mentioned  the  saw 
(|T3=,  Trpiujv).  the  plumb-line  (7^  3X,  Gesen, 
p.  215),  the  measuring-reed  (I"I3£,  KaXapog, 
calamus,  Gesen.  p.  1221).  As  they  also  pre- 
pared the  stones  by  hewing  (1  Chron.  xxii, 
2),  they  must  have  used  the  chisel  and  the 
mallet  (S"I2£*2,  1 Kings  vi,  7),  though  no 
mention  of  the  former  occurs  in  Scripture, 
They  used  also  the  measuring-line  (ip,  Job 
xxxviii,  5;  Zech.  i,  16)  and  the  axe  (If  ”13, 
1 Kings  vi,  7).  See  each  word.  Some  of 
these,  and  also  the  chisel  and  mallet,  are  rep- 
resented on  Egyptian  monuments  (Wilkin- 
son, A nc.  Egyptians,  313,  314),  or  preserved 
in  the  British  Museum  (1st  Egypt,  room,  No. 
6114,  6038).  The  large  stones  used  in  Solo- 
mon’s Temple  are  said  by  Josep*hus  to  have 
been  fitted  together  exactly  without  either 
mortar  or  cramps,  but  the  foundation  stones 
to  have  been  fastened  with  lead  (Josephus, 
A tit.  viii,  3, 2 ; xv,  11,3).  For  ordinary  build- 
ing, mortar,  “Pb  (Gesen.  p.  1328),  was  used ; 
sometimes,  perhaps,  bitumer , as  was  the  case 
at  Babylon  (Gen.  xi,  3).  The  lime,  clay,  and 
straw  of  which  mortar  is  generally  composed 
in  the  East  requires  to  be  very  carefully  mix- 
ed and  united  so  as  to  resist  wet  (Lane,  Mod. 
Eg.  i.  27 ; Shaw,  Travels,  p.  206).  The  wall 
“ daubed  with  untempered  mortar”  of  Ezekiel 
(xiii,  10)  was  perhaps  a sort  of  cob-wall  of 
mud  or  clay  without  lime  (^217,  Gesenius,  p. 
1516),  which  would  give  way  under  heavy 
rain.  The  use  of  whitewash  on  tombs  is  re- 
marked by  our  Lord  (Matt,  xxiii,  27 ; see  also 
Mislni.  Maaser  Sheni,  v,  1).  Houses  infected 


plcments  used  in  the  trade  are  mentioned : the 
rule  (T?b,  ptrpov,  norma,  possibly  a chalk 
pencil,  < iesenius,  p.  1337),  measuring-line  (Ip, 
Gesenius,  p.  1201),  compass  (JTv’rvo,  tt apa- 
y!Hi<l>ig,  circinus,  Gesenius,  p.  450),  plane,  or 
smoothing  instrument  (irnupp,  K<>\\ a,run- 
rina  (Gesen.  p.  1223, 1338),  axe  (')t'13,  Gesen. 
p.  302,  or  ETip,  Gesen.  p.  1236,  a£ivi],  secu- 
rin'). Sec  each  of  these  words. 

The  process  of  the  work,  and  the  tools  used 
by  Egyptian  carpenters,  and  also  coopers  and 
whee  lwrights,  are  displayed  in  Egyptian  mon- 


uments and  relies;  the  former,  including  dovetailing, 
veneering,  drilling,  glueing,  varnishing,  and  inlaying. 


may  he  seen  in  Wilkinson,  .1  nc.  Eg.  ii,  1 1 1-1 19.  ( >f  the 

latter,  many  specimens, including  saws, hatchets, knives, 
awls,  nails,  a hone,  and  a drill,  also  turned  objects  in 
hone,  exist,  in  the  llritish  Museum,  1st  Egypt,  room,  case 
•12  13,  Nos.  6010-61X8.  Sec  also  Wilkinson,  ii,  p.  113, 
lig.  395.  See  t auvkntkk. 

In  the  N.  1.  (lie  occupation  of  a carpenter  (rttcriov) 
is  mentioned  in  connection  with  Joseph,  the  husband  of 
the  Virgin  Mary,  and  ascribed  to  our  Lord  himself  by 
way  of  reproach  (Mark  vi,3;  Matt,  xiii,  55;  and  Just. 
Mart.  dial.  Tryph.  c.  XX). 

3.  The  masons  (="1-15,2  Kings  xii,  12  [18],  wall- 
boilders,  Gesenius,  p.  269)  employed  by  David  and  Solo- 
mon, at  least  the  chief  of  them,  were  I’lncnicians,  as  is 
implied  also  in  the  word  men  of  Gebal,  Jehail, 

Byblus  (Gesen.  p.  25X;  1 Kings  v,  IX;  Ezck.  xxvii,  9; 
lhm  khnrdt,  Syria,  p.  179).  Other  terms  employed  are 

'P  ‘vr'’?I7>  workers  of  wall-stone  (2  Sam.v,  11 ; 1 
Chron.  xxii,  15);  stone-cutters  or  hewers  (1 

Clirou.  xxii,  2, 15,  “ workers  of  stone;”  Ezra  iii,  7,  etc.). 


Masons.  (Wilkinson.) 

1,  levelling,  and  2,  squaring  a stone. 


HANDICRAFT 


61 


HANDKERCHIEF 


with  leprosy  were  required  by  the  law  to  be  replastered 
(Lev.  xiv,  40-45),  For  kindred  works  in  earth  and  clay, 
sec  Brick,  Potter;  Glass,  ete. 

4.  Akin  to  the  eraft  of  the  carpenter  is  that  of  ship 
and  boat  building,  which  must  have  been  exercised  to 
some  extent  for  the  fishing-vessels  on  the  lake  of  Gen- 
nesaret  (Matt,  viii, ‘23 ; ix,  1;  John  xxi,  3, 8).  Solomon 
built  at  Ezion-Geber  ships  for  his  foreign  trade,  which 
were  manned  by  Phoenician  crews,  an  experiment  which 
Jchoshaphat  endeavored  in  vain  to  renew  (1  Kings  ix, 
20,  27 ; xxii,  48 ; 2 Chron.  xx,  30,  37).  The  shipmen 
were  a sailor  (Jonah  i,G;  Ezek.  xxvii,  8, 27-20; 
vaorpg,  Acts  xxvii,  30;  Eev.  xviii,  17) ; 
shipmaster  (Jonah  i,  0;  vavtcXijpoc,  Acts  xxvii,  11); 
nk'2,  viariner  (Ezek.  xxvii,  9,  ete. ; Jonah  i,  5).  See 
Smr. 

5.  The  perfumes  used  in  the  religious  services,  and  in 
later  times  in  the  funeral  rites  of  monarehs,  imply  knowl- 
edge and  practice  in  the  art  of  the  “apothecaries” 
(D^njXi^,  pvpeypoi,  pigmentarif),  who  appear  to  have 
formed  a guild  or  association  (Exod.  xxx,  25,35;  Nell, 
iii,  8;  2 Chron.  xvi,  14;  Eceles.  vii,  1;  x,  1 ; Ecclus. 
xxxviii,  8).  See  Perfume. 

0.  The  arts  of  spinning  and  weaving  both  wool  and 
linen  were  carried  on  in  early  times,  as  they  still  are 
usually  among  the  Bedouins,  by  women.  The  women 
spun  and  wove  goat’s  hair  and  flax  for  the  Tabernacle, 
as  in  later  times  their  skill  was  employed  in  like  man- 
ner for  idolatrous  purposes.  One  of  the  excellences  at- 
tributed to  the  good  housewife  is  her  skill  and  industry 
in  these  arts  (Exod.  xxxv,  25, 20;  Lev.  xix,  19;  Dcut. 
xxii,  11 ; 2 Kings  xxiii,7;  Ezek.  xvi,  10;  Prov.  xxxi, 
13.  24,  Burckhardt,  Notes  on  Bed.  i,  G5;  comp.  Homer, 
11.  i,  123;  Od.  i,  350 ; ii,  104).  The  loom,  with  its  beam 
p'S'J,  ptadvTiov,  liciatorium,  1 Sam.  xvii,7;  Gesen.  p. 
883),  pin  (-ir"1,  irdffoaXoc,  clarus,  Judg.  xvi,  14;  Gesen. 
p.  043),  and  shuttle  (3“?X,  dpopevg,  Job  vii,  0;  G~sen.  p. 
14G)  was,  perhaps,  introduced  later,  but  as  early  as  Da- 
vid’s time  (l  Sam.  xvii,  7),  and  worked  by  men,  as  was 
the  case  in  Egypt,  contrary  to  the  practice  of  other  na- 
tions. This  trade  also  appears  to  have  been  practised 
hereditarily  (1  Chron.  iv,  21 ; Herod,  ii,  35;  Sophocles, 
(Ed.  Col.  339).  See  Weaving. 

Together  with  weaving  we  read  also  of  embroidery, 
in  which  gold  and  silver  threads  were  interwoven  with 
the  body  of  the  stuff,  sometimes  in  figure  patterns,  or 
with  precious  stones  set  in  the  needlework  (Exod.  xxvi, 
1;  xxviii,  4;  xxxix,  0-13).  See  Embroidery. 

7.  Besides  these  arts,  those  of  dyeing  and  of  dressing 
cloth  were  practiced  in  Palestine  [see  Fuller,  etc.],  and 
those  also  of  tanning  and  dressing  leather  (Josh,  ii,  15- 
18 ; 2 Kings  i,  8 ; Matt,  iii,  4 ; Acts  ix,  43 ; Mishna,  Me- 
gill,  iii,  2).  Shoemakers,  barbers,  and  tailors  are  men- 
tioned m the  Mishna  ( Pesaeh , iv,  0);  the  barber  (2^5, 
Kovpevg,  Gesenius,  p.  283),  or  his  occupation,  by  Ezekiel 
(v,  1 ; Lev.  xiv,  8 : Numb,  vi,  5 ; Josephus,  A nt.  xvi,  11, 
5;  War,  i,  27,  5;  Mishna,  till  abb.  i,  2) ; and  the  tailor  (i, 
3),  plasterers,  glaziers,  and  glass  vessels,  painters  and 
goldworkers,  are  mentioned  in  Mishna  (jChel.  viii,  9; 
xxix,  3,  4;  xxx,  1). 

The  art  of  setting  and  engraving  precious  stones  was 
known  to  the  Israelites  from  a very  early  period  (Exod. 
xxviii,  9 sq.).  See  Gem.  Works  in  alabaster  were  also 
common  among  them  ('U£2ri  “’FQ,  smelling-boxes,  or 
boxes  of  perfume ; comp.  Matt. xxvi,  7,  etc.).  See  Ala- 
baster. They  also  adorned  their  houses  and  vessels 
with  ivory  (1  Kings  xxii,  39 ; Amos  iii,  15 ; vi,  4 ; Cant, 
v,  14).  See  Ivory. 

Tent-makers  (aiajvo7roioi)  are  noticed  in  the  Acts 
(xviii,  3),  and  frequent  allusion  is  made  to  the  trade  of 
the  potters.  See  each  word. 

8.  Bakers  (C^SX,  Gesen.  p.  130)  are  noticed  in  Scrip- 
ture as  carrying  on  their  trade  (Jer.  xxxvii,  21 ; Hos. 
vii,  4 ; Mishna,  ChcL  xv,  2) ; and  the  well-known  valley 


Tyropoeon  probably  derivod  its  name  from  the  oecupa« 
tion  of  the  cheese-makers,  its  inhabitants  (Josephus, 
War,  v,  4, 1).  Butchers,  not  Jewish,  are  spoken  of  in  1 
Cor.  x,  25. 

Trade  in  all  its  branches  was  much  developed  after 
the  Captivity;  and  for  a father  to  teach  his  son  a trade 
was  reckoned  not  only  honorable,  but  indispensable 
(Mishna,  Pirke  A b.  ii,  2 ; Kiddush.  iv,  14).  Some  trades, 
however,  were  regarded  as  less  honorable  (Jahn,  BibL 
Arch.  § 84). 

Some,  if  not  all,  trades  had  special  localities,  as  was 
the  ease  formerly  in  European  and  is  now  in  Eastern 
cities  (Jer.  xxxvii,  21 ; l Cor.  x,  25;  Josephus,  War,  v, 
4,  1,  and  8,  1;  Mishna,  Becor.  v,  1;  Bussell,  Aleppo,  i, 
20;  Chardin,  Voyages,  vii,  274,  394;  Lane,  Mod.  Eg.  ii, 
145).  See  Bazaar. 

One  feature,  distinguishing  Jewish  from  other  work- 
men, deserves  peculiar  notice,  viz.  that  they  were  not 
slaves,  nor  were  their  trades  necessarily  hereditary',  as 
was  and  is  so  often  the  ease  among  other,  especially 
heathen  nations  (Jahn,  Bill.  A rch.  c.  v,  § 81-84;  Saal- 
schiltz,  Hebr.  A rch.  e.  14). — Smith,  s.  v. ; Kit  to,  s.  v.  See 
Mechanic. 

Handkerchief  or  napkin  (oovfapiov ; Vulg.  su- 
darium ) occurs  in  Luke  xix,  20 ; John  xi,  44 ; xx,  7 ; 
Acts  xix,  12.  The  Greek  word  is  adopted  from  the 
Latin,  and  properly  signifies  a su'eat-eloth,  or  pocket- 
handkerehief,  but  in  the  Greek  and  Syriac  languages  it 
denotes  chiejhj  napkin,  wrapper,  etc.  In  the  first  of  the 
above  passages  (Luke  xix,  20)  it  means  a wrapper,  in 
which  the  “ wicked  servant”  had  laid  up  the  poimd  in- 
trusted to  him  by  his  master.  For  references  to  the 
custom  of  laying  up  money,  etc.,  in  aovSapia,  both  in 
classical  and  rabbinical  writers,  see  Wet  stein’s  AT.  T.  on 
Luke  xix,  20.  In  the  second  instance  (John  xi,  44)  it 
appears  as  a kerchief,  or  cloth  attached  to  the  head  of  a 
corpse.  It  was  perhaps  brought  round  the  forehead 
and  under  the  chin.  In  many  Egyptian  mummies  it 
does  not  cover  the,  face.  In  ancient  times,  among  the 
Greeks,  it  did  (Nicolaus,  De  Greecor.  Luda,  c.  iii,  § 0, 
Thiel.  1097).  Maimonides,  in  his  comparatively  recent 
times,  describes  the  whole  face  as  being  covered,  and 
gives  a reason  for  the  custom  (Tract  Efel,  c.  4).  The 
next  instance  is  that  of  the  oovfaplov  which  had  been 
“ about  the  head”  of  our  Lord,  but  which,  after  his  res- 
urrection, was  found  rolled  up,  as  if  deliberately,  and  put 
in  a place  separately  from  the  linen  clothes.  The  last 
instance  of  the  Biblical  use  of  the  word  (and  the  only 
one  in  which  it  is  rendered  “ handkerchief”)  occurs  in 
the  account  of  “the  special  miracles”  wrought  by  the 
hands  of  Paid  (Acts  xix,  11);  “so  that  oovUdpia  (hand- 
kerchiefs, napkins,  wrappers,  shawls,  etc.)  were  brought 
from  his  body  to  the  sick;  and  the  diseases  departed 
from  them,  and  the  evil  spirits  went  out  of  them.”  The 
Ephesians  had  not  unnaturally  inferred  that  the  apos- 
tle’s miraculous  power  could  be  communicated  by  such 
a mode  of  contact;  and  certainly  cures  thus  received  by 
parties  at  a distance,  among  a people  famed  for  their 
addictedness  to  “curious  arts,”  i.  e.  magical  skill,  ete., 
would  serve  to  convince  them  of  the  truth  of  the  Gos- 
pel by  a mode  well  suited  to  interest  their  minds.  The 
apostle  is  not  recorded  to  have  expressed  any  opinion 
respecting  the  reality  of  this  intermediate  means  of  those 
miracles.  He  had  doubtless  sufficiently  explained  that 
these  and  all  the  other  miracles  “ wrought  by  his  hands,” 
i.  e.  by  his  means,  were  really  wrought  by  God  (ver.  1 1) 
in  attestation  of  the  mission  of  Jesus.  If  ho  himself 
did  not  entertain  exactly  the  same  ideas  upon  the  sub- 
ject as  they  did,  he  may  be  considered  as  conceding  to, 
or,  rather,  not  disturbing  unnecessarily,  popular  notions, 
rendered  harmless  by  his  previous  explanation,  and  af- 
fording a very  convenient  medium  for  achieving  mneh 
higher  purposes.  If  the  connection  between  the  second- 
ary cause  and  the  effect  was  real,  it  reminds  us  of  our 
Saviour’s  expression,  “ I perceive  that  virtue  has  gone 
out  of  me”  (Mark  v,  30);  which  is,  however,  regarded 
by  many  critics  as  a popular  mode  of  saying  that  he 


HANDLE  G2  HANES 


knew  that  a miracle  had  been  wrought  by  Ins  power 
and  efficacv — a mode  of  speaking  in  unison  at  least  with 
the  belief  <>f  the  woman  that  she  should  l>e  healed  if  she 
could  hut  touch  the  hem  of  his  garment  unperceived  by 
him,  and  perhaps  even  conceded  to,  in  accordance  with 
the  miracles  wrought  through  the  medium  of  contact 
related  in  the  Old  Testament  (1  Kings  xvii,  21 ; 2 Kings 
iv.  29,  etc.),  and  in  order,  by  a superior  display,  in  re- 
gard both  to  speed  and  extensiveness,  to  demonstrate 
his  supremacy  liy  a mode  through  which  the  Jews  were 
best  prepared  to  perceive  it  (Luke  vi,  19;  see  Schwarz, 
ad  Olcar.  de  Stylo  X.  T.  p.  129;  Soler.  De  Pileo,  p.  17 ; 
Pierson,  ad  .1  far.  p.  34* ; Lydii  Flor.  Spars,  ad  Pass.  J. 
C.  p.  5;  Drusius,  Qnastt.  Ileb.  c.  2;  Roseum  tiller  and 
Kuinbl  on  the  passages). — Kitto, s. v.  See  Kerchief; 
Napkin  ; IIoi.v  Handkerchief. 

Handle  (as  a noun)  occurs  but  once  (Cant,  v,  5)  in 
tlie  plural  (r^S3,  kappotli lit.  hands'),  for  the  thumb- 
pieces  or  knobs  of  the  bolt  or  latch  to  a door  (compare 
r;”P,  arms  of  a throne,  etc.,  1 Kings  x,  19).  See  Lock,  j 

Handmaid  or  handmaiden  (PinS’j,  shiplichah’, 
or  n“X,a?««^,,Gen.xvi,  l,etc.;  Ruth  iii,9, etc. ; vovXij, 
Luke  i,4*),  a maid-serrant  (as  both  Heb.  terms  are  often 
translated;  the  latter  being  rendered  “handmaid”  only 
in  a metaphorical  or  self-deprecatory  sense).  We  find 
on  the  paintings  in  the  tombs  of  Egypt  various  repre- 
sentations of  female  domestics  employed  in  waiting  on 
their  mistresses,  sometimes  at  the  bath,  at  others  at  the 
toilette,  and  likewise  in  bringing  in  refreshments  and 


ally  rendered),  a spear  or  javelin  (Ezek.  .xxxix,  9).  See 
Armor. 

Hands,  Imposition  of.  See  Imposition  of 
Hands;  Ordination. 

Handschuh,  John  Frederick,  was  the  fifth  of  the 
earlier  ministers  sent  from  Halle  to  America  to  labor 
among  the  German  population,  and  to  build  up  the  Re- 
deemer’s kingdom  in  this  Western  hemisphere.  He 
was  born  of  honorable  and  pious  parentage  in  Halle  Jan. 
14, 1714.  He  was  educated  at  the  university,  and  set 
apart  to  the  work  of  the  ministry  in  1744.  He  com- 
menced his  duties  in  the  large  and  laborious  parish  of 
Graba,  and  labored  with  great  success.  But  when  he 
heard  of  the  spiritual  destitution  of  his  brethren  in  Amer- 
ica. and  read  their  earnest  appeals,  his  sympathies  were 
strongly  awakened,  and  he  earnestly  desired  to  go  to 
their  relief.  He  landed  in  Philadelphia  April  5, 1748, 
and  was  welcomed  at  the  Trappe  by  Dr.  Muhlenberg 
with  the  salutation, “They  that  sow  in  tears  shall  reap 
in  joy.”  He  was  placed  at  Lancaster,  Pa.,  where  he  la- 
bored for  several  years  with  great  success.  The  con- 
gregation increased,  and  under  his  direction  a flourish- 
ing school  was  established  and  sustained.  “ Our  school,” 
he  says,  “consists  of  English,  Irish,  and  Germans,  Lu- 
therans and  Reformed ; and  so  anxious  are  the  people  to 
have  their  children  instructed,  that  it  is  impossible  to 
receive  all  who  apply  for  admission.”  He  subsequently 
took  charge  of  the  churches  at  New  Providence  and 
Hanover,  and  thence  was  transferred  to  Germantown, 
Pa.,  and  subsequently  to  Philadelphia,  where  lie  died 
Oct.  9,1764.  "(M.  L.  S.) 


A white  and  a black  female  Slave  waiting  upon  an  ancient 
tiau  Lady  at  a party. 

handing  them  round  to  visitors.  An  upper  servant  or 
slave  bad  the  office  «»f  handing  the  wine,  and  a black 
woman  sometimes  followed,  in  an  inferior  capacity,  to 
receive  an  empty  cup  when  the  wine  had  been  poured 
info  the  goblet.  The  same  black  slave  also  carried  the 
fruits  and  other  refreshments;  and  the  peculiar  mode 
of  holding  a plate  with  the  hand  reversed,  so  generally 
adopted  by  women  from  Africa,  is  characteristically 
shown  in  the  Theban  paintings  (Wilkinson,  A nc.  Ey.\, 
n-  ST>  abridgm.).  See  Ranqfet.  It  appears  most 
probable  that  Hagar  was  given  to  Sarai  as  her  personal 
attendant  while  she.  was  in  the  house  of  Pharaoh,  and 
that  she  was  permitted  to  retain  her  when  she  departed. 
Jewish  tradition  reports  that  Hagar  was  a daughter  (by 
a concubine,  as  some  say)  of  Pharaoh,  who,  seeing  the 
wonders  wrought  oil  account  of  Sarai,  said.  “ It  is  better 
that  my  daughter  should  be  a handmaid  in  this  house- 
hold tlufci  a mistress  in  another.”  and  therefore  gaye  her 
to  Sarai.  She  was,  no  doubt,  a female  slave,  and  one  of 
those  maid-servants  whom  Abram  had  brought  from 
Egypt.  These  females  among  the  Jews,  as  they  still 
are  in  the  East,  arc  entirely  under  the  control  of  the 
mistress  of  the  family.  See  Slave;  Hagar. 

Hand-mill.  Sec  Mill. 

Hand-staff  (b^*0,  makkeT,  a rod  or  staff  as  usu- 


Ha'nes (Hebrew  Chanes',  02H,  doubtless  of 
Egyptian  etymology),  a place  in  Egypt  only 
mentioned  in  Isa.  xxx,  4:  “For  his  princes  were 
at  Zoan,  and  his  messengers  came  to  Hanes.” 
The  Septuagint  renders  the  latter  clause  Kai 
dyyeXo i aurov  izovppoi, “And  his  ambassadors 
worthless The  copy  from  which  this  transla- 
tion was  made  may  have  read  Din  in- 

stead of  ‘lD’W1  Dirt;  and  it  is  worthy  of  note 
that  the  reading  Din  is  still  found  in  a number 
of  ancient  MSS.  (De  Rossi,  T 'arias  Lectiones  Yet. 
Test,  iii,  29),  and  is  approved  by  Lowth  and  J. 
D.  Michaelis.  The  old  Latin  version  follows  the 
Sept.,  “ Nuneii  pessimi but  Jerome  translates 
from  a text  similar  to  our  own,  rendering  the 
Egyp*  clause  as  follows:  “Et  nuneii  tui  usque  ad Ilanes 
pervenerunt”  (Sabbatier,  Biblior.  Sacrorum  Latin. 
]'erss.,  ad  loc.).  Jerome  adds,  in  his  commen- 
tary on  the  verse,  “Intelligimus  ultiraam  juxta  Ethi- 
opas  et^Blemmyas  esse  vEgypti  civitatem.”  Yitringa 
would  identify  Hanes  with  the  Anusis  ("Arvaie)  of 
Herodotus  (ii,  137 ; compare  Champollion,  L'Egypte,  i, 
309 ; Quatremere,  Memoires,  i,  500),  which  he,  with 
Gesenius  and  others,  supposes  to  be  the  same  as  He* 
racleopolis  ( City  of  Hercules)  of  Strabo  (xvii,  812),  the 
ruins  of  which  are  now  called  Anasieh  (Edrisi,  Afric. 
p.  512),  The  Coptic  name  was  Hues  or  Ehnes , and  it 
was  one  of  the  ancient  royal  cities  of  Egypt.  Ana- 
sich  stands  on  a high  mound  some  distance  west  of 
tiic  Nile,  near  the  parallel  of  Ilenisuef.  The  great  ob- 
jection to  this  theory  is  the  distance  of  Anasieh  from 
Zoan,  which  stood  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  Delta,  near 
the  sea.  Gesenius  remarks,  as  a kind  of  apology  for  the 
identification  of  Danes  with  Heracleopolis  Magna,  that 
the  latter  was  formerly  a royal  city.  It  is  true  that  in 
Manet  bo’s  list  the  9th  and  10th  dynasties  are  said  to 
have  been  of  1 leracleopolite  kings ; but  it  has  lately  been 
suggested,  on  strong  grounds,  by  Sir  Gardner  Wilkin- 
son, that  this  is  a mistake  in  the  case  of  the  9th  dynasty 
for  llermonthites  (Rawlinson,  Herod,  ii,  348).  If  this 
supposition  be  correct  as  to  the  9th  dynasty,  it  must 
also  be  so  as  to  the  10th;  but  the  circumstance  of  Hera- 
cleopolis being  a royal  city  or  not,  a thousand  years 
before  Isaiah’s  time,  is  obviously  of  no  consequence  here. 


HANGING 


63 


HANNAH 


The  prophecy  is  a reproof  of  the  Jews  for  trusting  in 
Egypt ; ami,  according  to  the  Masoretic  text,  mention 
is  made  of  an  embassy,  perhaps  from  Hosliea,  or  else 
from  Ahaz,  or  possibly  Hezekiah,  to  a Pharaoh.  As  the 
king  whose  assistance  is  asked  is  called  Pharaoh,  he  is 
nrobablv  not  an  Ethiopian  of  the  25th  dynasty,  for  the 
kings  of  that  line  are  mentioned  by  name — So,  Tirhakah 

but  a sovereign  of  the  23d  dynasty,  which,  according 

to  Manetlio,  was  of  Tanite  kings.  It  is  supposed  that 
the  last  king  of  the  latter  dynasty,  Manet lio’s  Zet,  is  the 
Sethos  of  Herodotus,  the  king  in  whose  time  Sennache- 
rib’s army  perished,  and  who  appears  to  have  been  men- 
tioned under  the  title  of  Pharaoh  by  Rabshakeh  (Isa. 
xxxvi,  6 ; 2 Kings  xviii,  21),  though  it  is  just  possible 
that  Tirhakah  may  have  been  intended.  If  the  refer- 
ence be  to  an  embassy  to  Zet,  Zoan  was  probably  his 
capital,  and  in  any  ease  then  the  most  important  city 
of  the  eastern  part  of  Lower  Egypt.  Hanes  was  most 
probably  in  its  neighborhood;  and  we  are  disposed  to 
think  that  the  Chahl.  Paraphr.  is  right  in  identifying  it 
with  Tahpanhes  (OH25nri,  or  Gn:snri,  once  written, 


if  the  Kethib  be  correct,  in  the  form  C-EHri,  Daphnee), 
a fortified  town  on  the  eastern  frontier.  Grotius  con- 
siders Hanes  a contraction  of  this  name  ( Continental- . ad 
loc.).  With  this  may  be  eonneeted  the  remark  of  De 
Rossi — “ Codex  mens  380  notat  ad  Marg.  esse  OHIEnr, 
Jcr.  ii,  16”  (r«r,  Lect.,  1.  e.).  On  the  whole,  this  seems 
to  be  the  most  probable  theory,  as  Tahpanhes  was  situ- 
ated in  the  eastern  part  of  the  Delta,  and  was  one  of 
the  royal  cities  about  the  time  of  Isaiah. — Kitto,  s.  v. ; 
Smith,  s.  v.  See  Tahpanhes. 

Hanging  (as  a punishment,  to  impale  with 


dislocation  of  the  limbs,  Numb,  xxv,  4;  2 Sam.  xxi,  6, 
9;  nbp,  to  suspend,  as  among  the  Hebrews,  Deut.  xxi, 
22;  the  Egyptians,  Gen.  xl,  19;  and  the  Persians,  Esth. 
vii,  10;  v,  14 ; Kptfidvvvfu).  See  Crucifixion.  Hang- 
ing on  a tree  or  gibbet  ap- 
pears  to  have  been  a mark 
® of  infamy,  inflicted  on  the 
dead  bodies  of  criminals, 
rather  than  a punishment, 
as  modern  nations  employ 
it.  The  person  suspended 
was  considered  as  a curse, 
an  abomination  in  the  sight 
of  God,  and  as  receiving 
this  token  of  infamy  at  his 
hand.  The  body,  never- 
Impalement  of  Prisoners  he- theless,  was  to  be  taken 
fore  the  Walls.  From  the  down  and  buried  on  the 
Assyrian  Monuments.  ^ (lay.  Thc  hanging 

mentioned  in  2 Sam.  xxi,  G,  was  the  work  of  the  Gib- 
eonites,  and  not  of  the  Hebrews.  Posthumous  suspen- 
sion of  this  kind,  for  the  purpose  of  conferring  ignominy, 
differs  materially  from  the  crucifixion  that  was  prac- 
ticed by  the  Romans,  although  the  Jews  gave  such  an 
extent  to  the  law  in  Dent,  xxi,  22,  23,  as  to  include  the 
last-named  punishment  (John  xix,  31 ; Acts  v,  30;  Gal. 
iii,  13;  1 Pet.  ii,  24).  The  more  recent  Jews  attributed 
the  origin  of  the  punishment  of  strangulation  to  Moses, 
and  supposed  it  to  have  been  meant  by  the  phrase,  “He 
shall  die  the  death,”  but  without  cause.  See  Punish- 
ment. 


HANGING  (as  a curtain)  is  the  rendering  of  throe 
Heb.  terms,  two  of  them  having  reference  to  the  furni- 
ture of  the  tabernacle  and  Temple. 

1.  The  “hanging”  (TiG’O,  masak' ; Sept.  Ixioirao- 
Tpop,Vulg.  tentorium)  was  a curtain  or  corering  (as  the 
word  radically  means,  and  as  it  is  sometimes  rendered) 
to  close  an  entrance.  It  was  made  of  variegated  stuff 
wrought  with  needlework  (compare  Esth.  i,  5),  and  (in 
one  instance,  at  least)  was  hung  on  five  pillars  of  acacia 
wood.  The  term  is  applied  to  a series  of  curtains  sus- 
pended before  the  successive  openings  of  entrance  into 
the  tabernacle  and  its  parts.  Of  these,  the  first  hung 


before  the  entrance  to  the  court  of  the  tabernacle  (Exod, 
xxvii,  1G;  xxxviii,  18;  Numb,  iv,  26);  the  second  be- 
fore the  door  of  the  tabernacle  (Exod.  xxvi,  3G,  37; 
xxxix,  38);  and  the  third  before  the  entrance  to  the 
Most  Holy  Place,  called  more  fully  )T2“E  (“vail 

of  the  covering,”  Exod.  xxxv,  12;  xxxix,  34;  xl,  21). 
See  Curtain. 

2.  The  “hangings”  (D^'bp,  kelaim' ; Sept,  lorin, 
Vnlg.  tentoria)  were  used  for  covering  the  walls  of  the 
tabernacle,  just  as  tapestry  was  in  modem  times  (Exod. 
xxvii,  9;  xxxv,  17 ; xxxviii,  9;  Numb,  iii,  26;  iv,  2G). 
The  rendering  in  the  Sept,  implies  that  they  were  made 
of  the  same  substance  as  the  sails  of  a ship,  i.  e.  as  ex- 
plained by  Kashi)  “meshy,  not  woven this  opinion  is, 
however,  ineorreet,  as  the  material  of  which  they  were 
constructed  was  “ fine  twined  linen.”  The  hangings 
were  carried  only  five  cubits  high,  or  half  the  height  of 
the  walls  of  the  court  (Exod.  xxvii,  18;  compare  xxvi, 
1G).  They  were  fastened  to  pillars  which  ran  along  the 
sides  of  the  court  (xxvii,  18).  See  Tabernacle. 

3.  The  “hangings”  (D*ri2,  bottlin',  2 Kings  xxiii,  7, 

margin  houses,  which  is  thc  literal  rendering)  are  of 
doubtful  import.  Ewald  conjectures  that  thc  reading 
should  be  clothes,  and  supposes  the  reference  to 

be  to  dresses  for  the  images  of  Astarte;  but  this  is  both 
gratuitous  and  superfluous.  The  bottim  which  these 
women  wove  were  probably  cloths  for  tents  used  as 
portable  sanctuaries. — Kitto;  Smith.  See  Idolatry. 

Han'iel  (1  Cliron.  vii,  39).  See  Hanniel. 

Hanmer,  Meredith,  an  English  Church  historian, 
was  born  at  Porkington,  Shropshire,  in  1543.  lie  be- 
came chaplain  of  Corpus  Cliristi  College,  Oxford,  and 
afterwards  reetor  of  St.  Leonard,  at  Shoreditch.  Here 
he  sold  the  brass  ornaments  which  decorated  the  graves 
of  the  church,  which  so  displeased  his  parishioners  that 
he  was  obliged  to  resign  about  1G93.  He  then  went  to 
Ireland,  where  he  was  finally  made  treasurer  of  the 
Church  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  Dublin.  He  died  in  1G04, 
not  without  suspicion  of  suicide.  He  was  a .skilful 
Greek  scholar,  and  well  acquainted  with  Church  histo- 
ry. lie  wrote  Translation  of  the  ancient  ecclesiastical 
Histories  of  the  first  six  hundred  Years  after  Christ,  oritj- 
j inally  written  by  Eusebius,  Socrates,  and  Erayrius  (157G ; 
reprinted  in  1585  with  the  addition  of  The  Lires  of  the 
Prophets  and  Apostles  by  Dorotheus,  bishop  of  Tyre)  : — 
I The  Ephenieris  of  the  Saints  of  Ireland;  and  the  Chron- 
icle of  Ireland  (Dublin,  1G33,  fol.) : — A Clironoyraphy 
(Loud.  1585.  fol.).  See  Fuller,  Worthies ; Wood,  A the- 
nce Oxon . vol.  i. 

Han'nah  (Ileb.  Channah',  I"!I n,  yraciousness : Sept. 
"Avra ; comp.  Anna,  a name  known  to  the  Phoenicians 
[Gesen.  Mon.  Them.  p.  400],  and  attributed  by  Virgil  to 
Dido’s  sister),  wife  of  a Levite  named  Elkanah,  and 
mother  of  Samuel  ( l Sam.  i,  ii).  She  was  very  dear  to 
her  husband,  but,  being  childless,  was  much  aggrieved 
by  the  insults  of  Elkanah’s  other  wife,  Pcninnah,  who 
was  blessed  with  children.  The  family  lived  at  Rama- 
thaim-zophim,  and,  as  the  law  required,  there  was  a 
yearly  journey  to  offer  sacrifices  at  the  sole  altar  of  Je- 
hovah, which  was  then  at  Shiloh.  Women  were  not 
bound  to  attend ; but  pious  females  free  from  thc  cares 
of  a family  often  did  so.  especially  when  the  husband 
was  a Levite.  Every  time  that  Hannah  went  there 
childless  she  declined  to  take  part  in  the  festivities 
which  followed  the  sacrifices,  being  then,  as  it  seems, 
peculiarly  exposed  to  the  taunts  of  her  rival.  At  length, 
on  one  of  these  visits  to  Shiloh,  while  she  prayed  before 
returning  home,  she  vowed  to  devote  to  the  Almighty 
the  son  which  she  so  earnestly  desired  (Numb,  xxx,  1 
sq.).  It  seems  to  have  been  the  custom  to  pronounce 
all  vows  at  the  holy  place  in  a loud  voice,  under  the 
j immediate  notice  of  the  priest  (Dent,  xxiii,  23 ; Psa. 
xxvi,  14);  but  Hannah  prayed  in  a low  tone,  so  that 
her  lips  only  were  seen  to  move.  This  attracted  the 
attention  of  the  liigh-priest,  Eli,  who  suspected  that  she 


64 


HAXUX 


II  AX  X AH 


had  taken  too  much  wine  at  the  recent  feast.  From 
this  suspicion  Hannah  easily  vindicated  herself,  and  re- 
turned home  with  a lightened  heart.  Before  the  end 
of  t hat  year  Hannah  became  the  rejoicing  mother  of  a 
son,  to  whom  the  name  of  Samuel  was  given,  and  who 
was  from  his  birth  placed  under  the  obligations  of  that 
condition  of  Xazaritesliip  to  which  his  mother  had 
devoted  him.  15.C.1142.  Hannah  went  no  more  to  Shi- 
loh till  her  child  was  old  enough  to  dispense  with  her 
maternal  services,  when  she  took  him  up  with  her  to 
leave  him  there,  as  it  appears  was  the  custom  when  one 
already  a Levite  was  placed  under  the  additional  obli- 
gation's of  Xazaritesliip.  When  he  was  presented  in 
due  form  to  the  high-priest,  the  mother  took  occasion 
to  remind  him  of  the  former  transaction:  “For  this 
child,"  she  said,  “ I prayed,  and  the  Lord  hath  given  me 
my  petition  which  1 asked  of  him”  (1  Sam.  i,  27 ).  Han- 
nah’s gladness  afterwards  found  vent  in  an  exulting 
chant,  which  furnishes  a remarkable  specimen  of  the 
early  lyric  poetry  of  the  Hebrews  (see  Schlosser,  Canii- 
enm  J l (inner,  Erlangen,  1801),  and  of  which  many  of  the 
ideas  and  images  were  in  after  times  repeated  by  the 
Virgin  Mary  on  a somewhat  similar  occasion  (Luke  i, 
•If)  sip ; comp,  also  Psa.  cxiii).  It  is  specially  remarka- 
ble as  containing  the  first  designation  of  the  Messiah 
under  that  name.  In  the  Targum  it  has  been  subjected  I 
to  a process  of  magniloquent  dilution,  for  which  it  would 
be  difficult  to  find  a parallel  even  in  the  pompous  vaga- 
ries of  that  paraphrase  (Eiclihorn,  Ehil.  ii,  08).  Alter 
this  Hannah  failed  not  to  visit  Shiloh  every  year,  bring- 
ing a new  dress  for  her  son,  who  remained  under  the  eye 
and  near  the  person  of  the  high-priest.  See  Samuel. 
That  great  personage  took  kind  notice  of  Hannah  on 
these  occasions,  and  bestowed  his  blessing  upon  her  and 
her  husband.  The  Lord  repaid  her  abundantly  for  that 
which  she  had,  to  use  her  own  expression,  “lent  to 
him;”  for  sir-  had  three  sons  and  two  (laughters  after 
Samuel  (see  Kitto’s  Daily  Bible  Illust.). — Kitto,  s.  v. 

Hannah,  John,  I>.D.,an  eminent  Wesleyan  minister, 
was  horn  at  Lincoln,  Eng.,  Nov.  3, 1792.  After  receiving 
a Christian  education,  lie  entered  the  Wesleyan  ministry 
in  1*11  at  llrutou.  Somersetshire.  From  isio  to  1817, 
inclusive,  he  was  on  the  Gainslxirongh  Circuit;  1818  to 
1820,  Lincoln;  1821  to  1823,  Nottingham  ; 1824  to  1826, 
Leeds;  1827  to  IK-29,  third  Manchester  Circuit;  1830  to 
1K32,  Huddersfield;  1*33. Liverpool ; and  in  1834  he  be- 
came theological  tutor  at  the  Wesleyan  Training  Insti- 
tution at  1 1 ox  ton.  In  1842  he  was  removed  to  the 
college  at  Didsburv,  where  he  remained  as  theological 
tutor  till  he  became  a supernumerary  at  the  Conference 
of  IK67.  In  the  year  that  he  was  removed  to  Didsbmy 
lie  was  elected  president  of  the  Conference  (London), 
and  he  was  again  president  in  1851,  when  the  Confer- 
ence met  at  Newcastle  upon  Tyne.  He  was  Conference 
secretary  in  the  years  1810,  1841,  1819,  1850,  and  1854 
to  1858.  Oil  two  occasions  he  represented  the  Wesley- 
an Conference,  once  with  the  Lev.  11.  Reece,  and  the 
second  time  with  l>r.  J.  F.  .lobson,  at  the  General  Con- 
ference of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  ( liurch  in  the  United 
States.  His  full  term  of  service  as  a Methodist  minis- 
ter extended  without  interruption  from  1814  to  1867— 
Jill'/ -three  ymrs.  After  becoming  supernumerary  in 
1867  he  continued  to  reside  at  Didsburv,  under  an  ar- 
rangement liberally  devised  by  Mr.  1 leak!  a.ul  other' 
prominent  Wesleyan  laymen,  lie  died  in  Didsburv 
Irom  emigration  of  the  lungs,  after  a brief  illness,  Dec. 
29,  1*07.  “For  about  thirty -three  years  he  was  a 
chief  instructor  of  the  young  Weslevan  ininistrv,  send- 
ing out  such  men  as  Arthur,  Hunt,  Calvert,  etc.;  men 
who  have  attested  his  salutary  power  throughout  the 
I mted  Kingdom,  and  in  the  hardest  mission  iiolds  of 
the  Church.  Nearly  three  hundred  preachers  were 
trained  by  him.  Ilis  influence  over  the  connection 
through  these  men  lias  been  beyond  all  estimation.  As 
a preacher  lie  was  exceedingly  interesting  and  effective 
-not  remarkably ‘fanciful,’  seldom  rising  into  declama- 
tion, but  full  of  entertaining  and  impressive  thought, 


’ and  a certain  sweet  grace,  or,  rather,  graciousness  and 
I unction,  which  charmed  all  devout  listeners.  He  was 
singularly  pertinent,  and  often  surprisingly  beautiful  in 
Scripture  citation;  his  discourses  were  mosaics  of  the 
finest  gems  of  the  sacred  writings.  He  was  a foml  stu- 
dent of  the  sterling  old  Anglican  divines;  he  delighted, 
in  his  vacation  excursions,  to  make  pilgrimages  to  their 
old  churches  and  graves,  and  his  sermons  abounded  in 
the  golden  thoughts  of  Hooker,  South,  and  like  think- 
ers. He  was  constitutionally  a modest  man,  in  early 
life  nervously  timid  of  responsibility,  but,  whether  in 
the  pulpit  or  on  the  platform,  always  acquitted  himself 
l with  ability” ; and  often  his  sensitive  spirit  kindled  into 
a divine  glow  that  rapt  himself  and  his  audience  with 
holy  enthusiasm.  For  fifty-three  years  his  labors  for 
! Methodism  had  no  interruption;  they  were  unobtru- 
sive, steady,  quietly  energetic,  and  immeasurably  use- 
ful. With  Thomas  Jackson,  he  was  one  of  the  last  of 
that  second  and  mighty  rank  of  Wesleyan  preachers, 
headed  by  Bunting,  Watson,  and  Newton,  who,  when 
Wesley’s  immediate  companions  were  rapidly  disappear- 
ing, caught  the  Metliodistic  standard  from  their  trem- 
bling hands,  and  bore  it  forward  abreast  of  the  advanc- 
ing times,  and  planted  it,  especially  by  the  missionary 
enterprise,  in  the  ends  of  the  earth.  He  was,  withal,  a 
model  of  Christian  maimers — a perfect  Christian  gentle- 
man; not  in  the  sense  deprecated  by  Wesley  in  his  old 
Minutes,  but  in  the  sense  that  Wesley  himself  so  com- 
pletely exemplified.  Ilis  amiability  and  modesty  dis- 
armed envy.  No  prominent  man  passed  through  the 
severe  internal  controversies  of  Wesleyan  Methodism 
with  less  crimination  from  antagonists.  The  whole 
connection  spontaneously  recognised  him  as  unimpeach- 
able, amid  whatever  rumors  or  clamors.  All  instinc- 
tively turned  towards  him  as  an  example  of  serenity, 
purity,  and  assurance,  in  whatever  doubtful  exigency. 
The  influence  of  Dr.  Hannah’s  character,  aside  from  his 
talents,  on  the  large  ministry  which  he  educated,  has 
been  one  of  the  greatest  blessings  Wesleyan  Methodism 
has  enjoyed  in  this  generation.” — Methodist  (newspa- 
per), Jan.  25,  1868;  Annual  American  Cyclopaedia  for 
1867,  p.  601 ; Wesleyan  Minutes , 18G8,  p.  14. 

Han'nathon  (Ileb.  Ckannathon',  *pp|n,  gracious- 
ly regarded;  Sept.  ’AvvaSiav,  v.  'EwoJwS  and  ’Ajuw3), 
a place  on  the  northern  boundary  of  Zebulon,  apparent- 
ly about  midway  between  the  Sea  of  Galilee  and  the 
valley  of  Jiphtliah-El  (Josh,  xix,  14);  probably  among 
the  range  of  Jebel  Jermik,  not  far  from  el-Mugiiar. 

Han'niel  (Heb.  Channiel',  b\":n.  grace  of  God; 
Sept.  ’Ava/X,  Yulg.  Hanniel  and  Ifaniel),  the  name  of 
two  men. 

1.  Son  of  Ephod  and  phylarcli  of  the  tribe  of  Manas- 
seh,  appointed  by  Moses  at  the  divine  nomination  as 
one  of  the  commissioners  to  divide  the  promised  land 
(Numb,  xxxiv,  23).  B.C.  1618. 

2.  One  of  the  sons  of  Ulla  and  chief  of  the  tribe  of 
Asher  (1  Chron.  vii,  39,  where  the  name  is  less  correct- 
ly Anglicized  “ Hamel”).  B.C.  ante  720. 

Ha'noch  (Gen.xxv,4;  xlvi,9;  Exod.vi,14;  Numb, 
xxvi,  5;  1 Chron.  a-,  3).  Sec  Enoch  3, 4. 

Ha'nochite  (Ileb.  Chanohi ',  “Cbtl;  Sept.  ’Euwy, 

\ ulg.  Ilenochitae , Eng.Ycrs.  “ Hanochites”),  a descend- 
ant of  Enoch  or  Iianoch,  the  son  of  Reuben  (Numb, 
xxvi,  5). 

Hans  Sachs.  See  Sachs. 

Ha  nun  (Heb.  Chainin' , },  favored),  the  name 

of  three  men. 

1.  (Sept.  Avviov  and  ’A vdv.)  The  son  and  suc- 
cessor of  Naliash,  king  of  the  Ammonites  (2  Sara,  x,  1- 
4 ; 1 Chron.  xix,  2-6).  David,  who  had  in  his  troubles 
been  befriended  by  Nahash,  sent,  with  the  kindest  inten- 
tions, an  embassy  to  condole  with  Hamm  on  the  death 
of  his  father,  and  to  congratulate  him  on  his  own  acces- 
sion. B.C.  cir.  1035.  The  rash  young  king,  however, 
i\as  led  to  misapprehend  the  motives  of  this  embassy., 


1 1 AN  WAY 


G5 


IIAPHTARAII 


and  to  treat  with  gross  and  inexpiable  indignity  the 
honorable  personages  whom  David  had  charged  with 
this  mission.  Their  beards  were  half  shaven,  and  their 
robes  cut  short  by  the  middle,  and  they  were  dismissed 
in  this  shameful  trim,  which  can  be  appreciated  only 
by  those  who  consider  how  reverently  the  beard  has  al- 
ways been  regarded  by  the  Orientals.  See  Beard. 
When  the  news  of  this  affront  was  brought  to  David, 
he  sent  word  to  the  ambassadors  to  remain  at  Jericho 
till  the  growth  of  their  beards  enabled  them  to  appear 
with  decency  in  the  metropolis.  He  vowed  vengeance 
upon  llanun  for  the  insult ; and  the  vehemence  with 
which  the  matter  was  taken  up  forms  an  instance,  in- 
teresting from  its  antiquity,  of  the  respect  expected  to 
be  paid  to  the  person  and  character  of  ambassadors. 
Hamm  himself  looked  for  nothing  less  than  war  as  the 
consequence  of  his  conduct;  and  be  subsidized  Hadare- 
zer  and  other  Syrian  princes  to  assist  him  with  their 
armies.  The  power  of  the  Syrians  was  broken  in  two 
campaigns,  and  the  Ammonites  were  left  to  their  fate, 
which  was  severe  even  beyond  the  usual  severities  of 
war  in  that  remote  age.  B.C.  cir.  1034. — Ivitto,  s.  v. 
See  Ammonite;  David. 

2.  (Sept.  ’Avovv.)  A person  who  repaired  (in  con- 
nection with  the  inhabitants  of  Zanoah)  the  Valley- 
gate  of  Jerusalem  after  the  Captivity  (Noli,  iii,  13).  B.C. 
440. 

3.  (Sept.  ’Avion.')  A son  (“the  sixth”)  of  Zalaph, 
wrho  likewise  repaired  part  of  the  walls  of  Jerusalem 
(Neh.  iii,  30).  B.C.  440. 

Hanway,  Jonas,  an  English  philanthropist,  was 
born  at  Portsmouth  in  1712.  He  established  himself  as 
a merchant  at  St.  Petersburg,  and  became  connected, 
through  his  Russian  dealings,  with  the  trade  into  Persia. 
Business  having  led  him  into  that  country,  be  published 
in  1753  A historical  Account  of  the  British  Trade  over 
the  Caspian  Sea , with  a Journal  of  Travels  from  London 
through  Russia  into  Persia  (4  vols.  4to),  “a  work  of  no 
pretension  to  literary  elegance,  but  containing  much 
information  on  the  commercial  subjects  of  vrhich  he 
speaks,  and  on  the  history  and  manners  of  Persia. 
The  latter  part  of  his  life  w as  employed  in  supporting, 
by  his  pen  and  personal  exertions,  a great  variety  of 
charitable  and  philanthropic  schemes;  and  he  gained  so 
high  and  honorable  a name  that  a deputation  of  the 
chief  merchants  of  London  made  it  their  request  to  gov- 
ernment that  some  substantial  mark  of  public  favor 
should  be  conferred  on  him.  He  was,  in  consequence, 
made  a commissioner  of  the  navy.  The  Marine  Society 
and  the  Magdalen  Charity,  both  still  in  existence,  owe 
their  establishment  mainly  to  him ; he  was  also  one  of 
the  great  promoters  of  Sunday-schools.  He  died  in 
178G.”  He  published  also  The  Importance  of  the  Lord's 
Supper  (London,  1782,  12mo): — Reflections  on  Life  and 
Religion  (Lond.  1761),  2 vols.  8vo).  See  Pugh,  Remark- 
able Occurrences  in  the  Life  of  Jonas  Ilanway  (London, 
1787,  8vo);  English  Cyclopcedia;  Allibone,  Dictionary 
of  Authors,  i,  782. 

Haplira'im  (Hebrew  Chaphara'yim,  E"“trt,  two 
2>its;  Sept.  ’Aipepaig,  Vulg.  Hapharaim),  a place  near 
the  border  of  Issachar,  mentioned  between  Shunem  and 
Shihon  (Josb.  xix,  19).  Eusebius  ( Onomast . s.  v.  Atipa- 
paatg)  appears  to  place  it  six  Roman  miles  north  of  Le- 
git); the  Apocrypha  also  possibly  speaks  of  the  same 
place  as  Apiderema  (AQaipega,  1 Maec.  xi,  34;  com- 
pare x,  30, 38).  Schwarz  ( Palestine , p.  166)  was  unable 
to  find  it.  Kiepert  ( Wandkarte  von  Palastina , 1857)  lo- 
cates it  near  the  river  Kishon,  apparently  at  Tell  eth- 
Thorah  (Robinson’s  Researches,  new  ed.  iii,  115).  Dr. 
Thomson  {Land  and  Book,  i,  502)  imagines  it  may  be 
the  modem  Shefa  A nier  (the  Shefa  Omar  of  Robinson, 
Researches,  new  ed.  iii  103,  “on  a ridge  overlooking  the 
plain”  of  Megiddo),  which,  he  says,  “in  old  Arabic  au- 
thors is  written  Shephr-am .”  See  Issachar. 

Haphtarah,  pi.  Hapiitaroth  (fYnEEJi,  dismis- 
sion, This  expression,  which  is  found  in 

IV.— E 


foot-notes  and  at  the  end  of  many  editions  of  the  He- 
brew Bible,  denotes  the  different  lessons  from  the  proph- 
ets read  in  the  synagogue  every  Sabbath  and  festival 
of  the  year.  As  these  lessons  have  been  read  from  time 
immemorial  in  conjunction  with  sections  from  the  law, 
and  as  it  is  to  both  “ the  reading  of  the  law  and  the 
prophets ” that  reference  is  made  in  the  N.  T.  (Acts  xiii, 
15,  etc.),  we  propose  to  discuss  both  together  in  the  pres- 
ent article. 

1 . Classification  of  the  Lessons,  their  Titles,  Significa- 
tion, etc.— There  are  two  classes  of  lessons  indicated  in 
the  Hebrew  Bible:  the  one  consists  of  fifty-four  sections, 
into  which  the  entire  law  or  Pentateuch  (ITVin)  is  di- 
vided, and  is  called  Parshioth  (lYP^JIS,  plur.  of  fTw^E, 
from  lE'lE,  to  separate );  and  the  other  consists  of  a cor- 
responding number  of  sections  selected  from  different 
parts  of  the  prophets,  to  be  read  in  conjunction  with 
the  former,  and  denominated  Ilaphtaroth.  As  the  sig- 
nification of  this  term  is  much  disputed,  and  is  intimate- 
ly connected  with  the  view  about  the  origin  of  these 
prophetic  lessons,  we  must  defer  the  discussion  of  it  to 
section  4.  The  division  of  the  Pentateuch  into  fifty- 
four  sections  is  to  provide  a lesson  for  each  Sabbath  of 
those  years  which,  according  to  Jewish  chronology, 
have  fifty-four  Sabbaths  (see  sec.  2),  and  to  read  through 
the  tvhole  Pentateuch,  with  large  portions  of  the  differ- 
ent prophets,  in  the  course  of  every  year.  It  must  be 
observed,  however,  that  this  annual  cycle  was  not  uni- 
versally adopted  by  the  ancient  Jews.  There  were 
some  who  had  a triennial  cycle  (comp.  Megilla,  29,  b). 
These  divided  the  Pentateuch  into  one  hundred  and 
fifty-three  ox  fifty-five  sections,  so  as  to  read  through 
the  law  in  Sabbatic  lessons  once  in  three  years.  This 
was  still  done  by  some  Jews  in  the  days  of  Maimonidcs 
(compare  Jad Ila-Chazaka  Ililchoth  Tephilla,  xiii,  1),  and 
Benjamin  of  Tudela  tells  us  that  he  found  the  Syrian 
Jews  followed  this  practice  in  Memphis  (ed.  Asher,  i, 
148).  The  sections  of  the  triennial  division  are  called 
by  the  Masorites  Sedarim  or  Sedaroth  (S*"“TD,  r.T.ID), 
as  may  be  seen  in  the  Masoretic  note  at  the  end  of  Ex- 
odus: “Here  endeth  the  book  of  Exodus  ...  it  hath 
eleven  Parshioth  (nV'i'“3,  i.  e.  according  to  the  an- 
nual division),  twenty-nine  Sedaroth  (F.'H'ID,  i.  e.  ac- 
cording to  the  triennial  division),  and  forty  chapters 
(E^p^E).”  Besides  the  Sabbatic  lessons,  special  por- 
tions of  the  law  and  prophets  are  also  read  on  every 
festival  and  fast  of  the  year.  It  must  be  noticed,  more- 
over, that  the  Jews,  ivho  have  for  some  centuries  almost 
universally  followed  the  annual  division  of  the  law,  de- 
nominate the  Sabbatic  section  Sidra  (5<“‘"I“E),  the 
name  which  the  Masorites  give  to  each  portion  of  the 
triennial  division,  and  that  every  one  of  the  fifty-four 
sections  has  a special  title,  which  it  derives  from  the 
first  or  second  -word  with  which  it  commences,  and  by 
which  it  is  quoted  in  the  Jewish  writings.  To  render 
the  following  description  more  intelligible,  as  well  as  te 
enable  the  student  of  Hebrew  exegesis  to  identify  the 
quotations  from  the  Pentateuch,  we  subjoin  on  the  two 
following  pages  chronological  tables  of  the  Sabbatical 
Festival  and  Fast  Lessons  from  the  Law  and  Prophets, 
and  their  titles.  (See  Clarke’s  Commentary,  s.  f.  Deu- 
teronomy.) 

2.  “ The  Reading  of  the  Law  and  Prophets"  as  indica- 
ted in  the  Hebrew  Bible,  and  practiced  ly  the  Jews  at  the 
present  day. — As  has  already  been  remarked,  this  divi- 
sion into  fifty-four  sections  is  to  provide  a special  lesson 
for  every  Sabbath  of  those  years  which  have  fifty-four 
Sabbaths.  Thus  the  intercalary  year,  in  which  New  Year 
falls  on  a Thursday,  and  the  months  Marcheshvan  and 
Kislev  have  twenty-nine  days,  has  fifty-four  Sabbaths 
which  require  special  lessons.  But  as  ordinary  years 
have  not  so  many  Sabbaths,  and  those  years  in  which 
New  Year  falls  on  a Monday,  and  the  months  Marches- 
van  and  Kislev  have  thirty  days,  or  New  Year  falls  on 


IIAPIITAIIAH 


66 


HAPI  IT  AK  All 


I.  Table  of  Sabbatio  Lessons. 


The  Prophets. 

No. 

Miuorelu:  Tide 

Portion  of  the  Law. 

Gen.  i,  1— vi,  S. 

Isa.  xiii,  5— xliii,  10,  or*  to  Isa.  xiii,  21. 

HD 

vi,  9— xi,  32. 

Isa.  liv,  1 — lv,  5,  or  to  liv,  10. 

vv 

iCPl 

xii,  1— xvii,  27. 

Isa.  xl,  27— xii,  16. 

xviii,  1— xxii,  24. 

2 Kings  iv,  1-37,  or  to  ver.  23. 

5 

m3  ”n 

xxiii,  1— xxv,  IS. 

1 Kings  i,  1-31. 

xxv,  19— xxviii,  9. 

Malachi  i,  1— ii,  7. 

xxviii,  10— xxxii,  3. 

Hos.  xi,  7— xii,  12,  or  to  ver.  13. 

s 

nixi 

xxxii,  4 — xxxvi,  43. 

Hos.  xii,  13— xiv,  10,  or  Obad.  1-21. 

9 

xxxvii,  1— xi,  23. 

Amos  ii,  6— iii,  8. 

10 

TP- 

cm 

xii,  1— xliv,  17. 

1 Kings  iii,  15 — iv,  1. 

11 

xliv,  IS— xlvii,  27. 

Ezek.  xxxvii,  15-23. 

12 

•m 

xlvii,  2S — !,  26. 

1 Kings  ii,  1-12. 

13 

r.icu 

Exod.  i,  1— vi,  1. 

Isa.  xxvii,  6— xxviii,  13 ; xxix,  22, 23,  or  Jer.  i,  1 — ii,  3. 

14 

N-Xl 

vi,  2— ix,  35. 

Ezek.  xxviii,  25— xxix,  21. 

15 

N- 

x,  1 — xiii,  16. 

Jer.  xlvi,  13-28. 

16 

xiii,  17— xvii,  16. 

Judg.  iv,  4— v,  31,  or  v,  1-81. 

17 

i-n' 

xviii,  1— xx,  23. 

Isa.  vi,  1 — vii,  6;  ix,  5,  6,  or  vi,  1-13. 

IS 

C'EETS 

xxi,  1— xxiv,  IS. 

Jer.  xxxiv,  S-22 ; xxxiii,  25-26. 

19 

nnun 

xxv,  1— xxvii,  19. 

1 Kings  v,  26— vi,  13. 

20 

msn 

xxvii,  20— xxx,  10. 

Ezek.  xliii,  10-27. 

21 

xrn  -o 

xxx,  11— xxxiv,  35. 

1 Kings  xviii,  1-39,  or  xviii,  20-39. 

22 

xxxv,  1— xxxviii,  20. 

1 Kings  vii,  40-50,  or  vii,  13-26. 

23 

■’tips 

xxxviii,  21— xl,  3S. 

1 Iviugs  vii,  51— viii,  21,  or  vii,  40-50. 

24 

icp*i 

Levit.  i,  1— v,  26. 

Isa.  xliii,  21— xliv,  23. 

25 

12 

vi,  1— viii,  36. 

Jer.  vii,  21— viii,  3 ; ix,  22,  23. 

2 6 

'Z'72' D 

ix,  1— xi,  47. 

2 Sam.  vi,  1— vii,  17,  or  vi,  1-19. 

27 

mir. 

xii,  1— xiii,  59. 

2 Kings  iv,  42 — v,  19. 

2S 

s-ric 

xiv,  1— xv,  33. 

2 Kings  vii,  3-20. 

29 

me  ■'tix 

xvi,  1— xviii,  30. 

Ezek.  xxii,  1-19. 

30 

cwnp 

xix,  1— xx,  27. 

Amos  ix,  7-15,  or  Ezek.  xx,  2-20. 

31 

“1CX 

xxi,  1— xxiv,  23. 

Ezek.  xliv,  15-31. 

32 

irra 

xxv,  1— xxvi,  2. 

Jer.  xxxii,  6-27. 

33 

T'pna 

xxvi,  2— xxvii,  34. 

Jer.  xvi,  19— xvii,  14. 

34 

“eim 

Numb,  i,  1— iv,  20. 

Hos.  ii,  1-22. 

35 

. XX3 

iv,  21— vii,  89. 

Judg.  xiii,  2-25. 

3G 

“ni2?n2 

viii,  1— xii,  16. 

Zech.  ii,  14— iv,  7. 

37 

V V* 

xiii,  1— xv,  41. 

Josh,  ii,  1-24. 

3S 

nip 

xvi,  1— xviii,  32. 

2 Sam.  xi,  14— xii,  22. 

39 

rpn 

xix,  1— xxii,  1. 

Jrnlg.  xi,  1-33. 

40 

A- 

xxii,  2— xxv,  9. 

Mieah  v,  6— vi,  8. 

41 

n n:c 

xxv,  10— xxx,  1. 

1 Kings  xviii,  46— xix,  21  if  it  is  before  Tammuz  17,  after 
this  date  Jer.  i,  1— ii,  3. 

42 

mse 

xxx,  2— xxxii,  42. 

Jer.  i,  1— ii,  3. 

43 

■»?ca 

xxxiii,  1— xxxvi,  13. 

Jer.  ii,  4-25. 

44 

Dent,  i,  1— iii,  22. 

Isa.  i,  1-27. 

45 

•;3npxi 

iii,  23— vii,  11. 

Isa.  xi,  1-26. 

46 

xp? 

vii,  12— xi,  25. 

Isa.  xlix,  14 — Ii,  3. 

47 

rsar, 

xi,  26— xvi,  17. 

Isa.  liv,  11— lv,  5. 

43 

t'OEia 

xvi,  IS— xxi,  9. 

Isa.  Ii,  12— Iii,  12. 

49 

NX.1  'O 

xxi,  10— xxv,  19. 

Isa.  liv,  1-10. 

50 

ion  '3 

xxvi,  1— xxix,  8. 

Isa.  lx,  1-22. 

51 

C'Z' 13 

xxix,  9— xxx,  20. 

Isa.  lxi,  10— lxiii,  9. 

52 

T“> 

xxxi,  1-30. 

Isa.  lv,  6 — lvi,  8. 

53 

mxn 

xxxii,  1-52. 

2 Sam.  xxii,  1-51  in  some  places.  Ezek.  xvii,  22— xviii,  32. 

64 

nrr-n  r.xn 

xxxiii,  1 — xxxiv,  12. 

* The  first  reference  always  shows  the  Ilaphtarah  according  to  the  German  and  Polish  Jews  (n-,T3tt3N):  the  second, 
introduced  by  the  disjunctive  particle  ok,  is  according  to  the  Portuguese  Jews  (dt'T£D). 


a Saturday,  and  the  said  months  are  regular,  i.  e.  Mar- 
chesvan  having  twenty-nine  days  and  Kislev  thirty, 
have  only  forty-seven  Sabbaths— fourteen  of  the  fifty- 
four  sections,  viz.  22  and  23,  27  and  2K,  20  and  30,  32 
and  33,  30  and  40,  12  and  43,  50  and  51,  have  been  ap- 
pointed to  be  read  in  pairs  either  wholly  or  in  part,  ac- 
cording to  the  varying  number  of  Sabbaths  in  the  cur- 
rent year.  Thus  the  whole  Pentateuch  is  read  through 
every  year.  The  first  of  these  weekly  sections  is  read 
on  the  first  Sabbath  after  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles, 
which  is  in  the  month  of  Tisri,  and  begins  the  civil 
year,  and  the  last  is  read  on  the  concluding  day  of  this 
festival,  Tisri  23,  which  is  called  The  Itejoidng  of  the 
Law  (min  PmiT),  a day  of  rejoicing,  because  on  it 
the  law  is  read  through.  See  Tabkuxacles,  Feast 
of.  According  to  the  triennial  division,  the  reading  of 
the  law  teems  to  have  been  as  follows:  Gen.  i,  1-Exotl. 
xiii,  16,  comprising  history  from  the  creation  of  the 


world  to  the  Exodus,  was  read  in  the  first  year;  Exod. 
xiii,  17-Num.  vi,  27,  embracing  the  laws  of  both  Sinai 
and  the  tabernacle,  formed  the  lessons  for  the  Sabbaths 
of  the  second  year;  and  Numb,  vii,  1-Deut.  xxxiv,  12, 
containing  both  history  (i.  e.  the  history  of  thirty-nine 
years’  wanderings  in  the  wilderness)  and  law  (i.  e.  the 
repetition  of  the  Mosaic  law),  constituted  the  Sabbatic 
lessons  for  the  third  year  (compare  Megilla,  29,  b,  and 
Volkslehrer , ii,  209). 

3.  The  manner  of  reading  the  Law  and  the  Pj'ophets. 
— Every  Sabbatic  lesson  from  the  law  (mil'll"!  nsmp) 
is  divided  into  seven  sections  (evidently  designed  to 
correspond  to  the  seven  days  of  the  week),  which, in  the 
days  of  our  Saviour  and  afterwards,  were  read  by  seven 
different  persons  (S^Xl-lp  rtracj),  who  were  called 
upon  for  this  purpose  bv  the  congregation  or  its  chief 
Mishna,  Megilla,  iv,  2;  Maimonides,  Jad  Ila-Chazaka) 
llild loth  Tephilla , xii,  7),  Great  care  is  taken  that  the 


HAPHTARAH 


HAPIITARAII 


61 


II.  Table  of  Festival  and  Fast  Lessons. 


FEASTS  AND  FASTS. 

THE  LAW. 

THE  PROPHETS. 

]Sew  Moon. 

I l it  falls  on  a Sabbath  is  read 

Numb,  xxviii,  9-15  ( Maphtir ). 

Isa.  lxvi,  1-24. 

On  a Sunday 

Numb,  xxviii,  3-15. 

1 Sam.  xx,  18-42. 

Feast  of  Dedication.  Day  i. 

Numb,  vii,  1-17. 

Day  ii. 

Numb,  vii,  18-23. 

Dav  iii. 

Numb,  vii,  24-29. 

Day  iv. 

Numb,  vii,  30-35. 

Day  v. 

Numb,  vii,  30-41. 

Day  vi. 

Numb,  vii,  42-47. 

Day  vii. 

Numb,  vii,  48-53. 

Day  viii. 

Numb,  vii,  54— viii,  4. 

Sabbath  i. 

Zech.  ii,  14 — iv,  T. 

Sabbath  ii. 

1 Kings  vii,  40-50. 

Feast  of  Potum. 

Exod.  xvii,  8-16. 

The  Book  of  Esther. 

Sabbath  Pakshetii  Saoiioe. 

Dent.  xxv.  17-19  (Maphtir). 

1 Sam.  xv,  2-34,  or  xv,  1-34. 

Sabbath  Paksuetu  Paha. 

Numb,  xix,  1-22  (Maphtir). 

Ezek.  xxxvi,  16-38,  or  to  ver.  36. 

Sabbath  Paksuetu  IIa-Cuodesix 

Exod.  xii,  1-20. 

Exek.  xiv,  16— xlvi,  18,  or  xiv,  18 
— xlvi,  15. 

Sabbath  IIa-Gaool. 

Mai.  iii,  4-24. 

Feast  of  Passover.  Day  i. 

Exod.  xii.  21-51 ; Numb,  xxviii,  16-25  (Maph- 

Josh,  iii,  5-7 ; v,  2-15;  vi,  27,  or 

tir ). 

v,  2-15. 

Day  ii. 

Levit.  xxii,  26— xxiii,  44;  Numb,  xxviii,  16-25 
(Maphtir). 

2 Kings  xxiii,  1-9 ; 21-25. 

Choi  Moed,  Day  i. 

Exod.  xiii,  1-16 : Numb,  xxviii,  19-25. 

Day  ii. 

Exod.  xxii-xxiii,  19 ; Numb,  xxviii,  19-25. 

(If  it  falls  on  a Sunday  the 
preceding  lesson  is  read.) 

Day  iii. 

(If  on  a Monday,  the  preced- 
ing lesson.) 

On  a Wednesday  or  Thursday. 

Exod.  xxiv,  1-26;  Numb,  xxviii,  19-25. 

Day  iv. 

Numb,  ix,  1-14 ; xxviii,  19-25. 

(Ezek.  xxxvi,  37— xxxvii,  17,  or 

Sabbath  Choi  Moed. 

Exod.  xxxiii,  12— xxxiv,  26;  Numb,  xxviii, 

19-25. 

< xxxVii,  1-14. 

(The  Song  of  Songs. 

Day  vii. 

Exod.  xiii,  17— xv,  26;  Numb,  xxviii,  19-25 
(Maphtir). 

2 Sam.  xxii,  1-51. 

If  Sabbath,  Day  viii. 

Dent,  xiv,  22 — xvi,  17 ; Numb,  xxviii,  19-25 

Isa.  x,  32— xii,  6. 

(Maphtir). 

Isa.  x,  32— xii,  6. 

Week  day,  “ 

Dent.,  xv,  19— xvi,  17 ; Numb,  xxviii,  19-25 
(Maphtir). 

Feast  of  Pentecost.  Day  i. 

Exod.  xix,  1— xx,  26;  Numb,  xxviii,  26-31 
(Maphtir). 

Ezek.  i,  1-2S;  iii,  12. 

If  Sabbath,  Day  ii. 

Deut.  xiv,  22— xvi,  17. 

Habak.  ii,  20— iii,  19,  or  iii,  1-19 ; 
Esther. 

Week  day,  “ 

Dent,  xv,  19— xvi,  17;  Numb,  xxviii,  26-31 
(Maphtir). 

Habak.  ii,  20— iii,  19,  or  iii,  1-19. 

Fast  of  the  Ninth  of  Ab. 

Jer.  viii,  13— ix,  23  ; Lamenta- 
tions. 

Morning. 

Dent,  iv,  25-40. 

Noon. 

Isa.  Iv,  6-lvi.  S. 

New  Year.  Day  i. 

Geu.  xxi,  1-34 ; Numb,  xxix,  1-6  (Maphtir). 

1 Sam.  i,  1— ii,  10. 

Day  ii. 

Gen.  xxii,  1-24 ; Numb,  xxix,  1-6  (Maphtir). 

Jer.  x xxi,  2-20. 

Dav  of  Atonement.  Morning. 

Levit.  xvi,  1-34 ; Numb,  xxix,  7-11  (Maphtir). 

Isa.  Ivii,  14— Iviii,  14. 

Noon. 

Levit.  xviii,  1-30. 

Jouah. 

Feast  of  Tabernaoles. 

Zech.  xiv,  1-21. 

Day  i. 

Levit.  xxii,  26— xxiii,  44;  Numb,  xxix,  12-16 
(Maphtir). 

Day  ii. 

Levit.  xxii,  26 — xxiii,  44;  Numb,  xxix,  12-16 
(Maphtir). 

1 Kings  viii,  2-21. 

Choi  Moed,  Day  i. 

Numb,  xxix,  17-25;  17-22  is  repeated. 

Day  ii. 

Numb,  xxix,  20-28 ; 20-25  is  repeated. 

Day  iii. 

Numb,  xxix,  23-31;  23-28  is  repeated. 

Day  iv. 

Numb,  xxix,  26-34 ; 26-31  is  repeated. 

Sabbath  Choi  Moed. 

Exod.  xxxiii,  12— xxxiv,  26;  Numb,  xxix,  17 

! Ezek.  xxxviii,  IS— xxxix,  16 ; 

-22,  if  it  is  the  first  day  of  Choi  Moed ; 

Numb,  xxix,  23-28,  if  the  third  ; Numb, 
xxix,  26-31,  if  the  fourth  day  (Maphtir). 

r Ecclesiastes. 

Shemini  Azeretli,  If  Sabbath. 

Dent,  xiv,  22— xvi,  17. 

1 Kiugs  viii,  54-66 ; Ecclesiastes. 

Week  day. 

Dent,  xv,  19— xvi,  17 ; Numb,  xxix,  35 — xxx, 
1 (Maphtir). 

Simchath  Tora. 

Dent,  xxxiii,  1— xxxiv,  12;  Gen.  i,  1— ii,  3; 

Josh,  i,  1-1S. 

Numb,  xxix,  35— xxx,  1 (Maphtir). 

Sabbatii  Siittba. 

Ties,  xiv,  2-9;  Joel  ii,  15-27. 

Fast  Days  generally. 

Exod.  xxxii,  11-14 ; xxxiv,  1-10. 

Isa.  Iv,  6— Ivii,  8. 

Mondays  and  Thursdays  all  the 

The  first  section  of  the  Sabhatic  lesson  from 

year  round. 

the  law. 

whole  nation  should  be  represented  at  this  reading  of 
the  law  and  prophets.  Hence  a Cohen  (“F1-)  or  priest 
is  called  to  the  reading  of  the  first  portion,  a Levi  C'lb) 
to  the  second,  and  an  Israel  to  the  third;  and 

after  the  three  great  divisions  of  the  nation  have  thus 
been  duly  represented,  the  remaining  four  portions  are 
assigned  to  four  others  with  less  care.  “Every  one 
thus  called  to  the  reading  of  the  law  must  unroll  the 
scroll,  and,  having  found  the  place  where  he  is  to  begin 
to  read,  prononnces  the  following  benediction — ‘Bless 
ye  the  Lord,  who  is  ever  blessed;’  to  which  the  congre- 
gation respond,  ‘ Blessed  be  the  Lord,  who  is  blessed  for 


evermore.’  Whereupon  he  again  pronounces  the  fol- 
lowing benediction — ‘ Blessed  art  thou,  O Lord  our  God, 
King  of  the  universe,  who  hast  chosen  us  from  among 
all  nations,  and  hast  given  11s  thy  law.  Blessed  art 
thou.O  Lord, giver  of  the  law;’  to  which  all  the  congre- 
gation respond  ‘Amen.’  He  then  reads  the  seventh  por- 
tion of  the  lesson,  and  when  he  has  finished,  rolls  up  the 
scroll,  and  pronounces  again  the  following  benediction — 
‘ Blessed  art  thou,  O Lord  our  God,  King  of  the  universe, 
who  hast  given  us  thy  law,  the  law  of  truth,  and  hast 
planted  among  ns  everlasting  life.  Blessed  art  thou.  O 
Lord,  giver  of  the  law’  ” (Maimonides,  ibid,  xii,  5).  The 
other  six,  who  are  called  in  rotation  to  the  reading  of 


IIAPIITARAH  6 

the  other  six  portions,  have  to  go  through  the  same  for- 
mularies. Then  the  maphtir  ( or  the  one  who 

linishes  up  bv  the  reading  of  the  llaphtarah,  or  the  les- 
son from  the' prophets,  is  called.  Having  read  the  few 
concluding  verses  of  the  lesson  from  the  law,  and  passed 
through  the  same  formularies  as  the  other  seven,  he 
reads  "the  appointed  section  from  the  prophets.  44  Before 
reading  it,  he  pronounces  the  following  benediction — 

‘ Blessed  art  thou,  O Lord  our  Hod,  King  of  the  uni- 
verse, who  hast  chosen  good  prophets,  and  delighted 
in  their  words,  which  were  spoken  in  truth.  Blessed 
art  thou,  ()  Lord,  who  hast  chosen  the  law,  thy  sen- 
ant  Moses,  thy  people  Israel,  and  thy  true  and  right- 
eous prophets'^  and  after  reading, 4 Blessed  art  thou,  0 
Lord  our  Hod,  King  of  the  universe,  Rock  of  all  ages, 
righteous  in  all  generations,  the  faithful  Hod  who  prom- 
ises and  performs,  who  decrees  and  accomplishes,  for  all 
t hv  words  are  fai t h ful  and  j ust . Fai tliful  art  thou,  Lord 
our  Hod.  and  faithful  are  thy  words,  and  not  one  of  thy 
words  shall  return  in  vain,  for  thou  art  a faithful  King. 
Blessed  art  tliou,0  Lord,  the  God  who  art  faithful  in  all 
thv  words.’  4 Have  mercy  upon  Zion,  for  it  is  the  dwell- 
ing of  <nir  life,  and  save  speedily  in  our  days  the  afflict- 
ed souls.  Blessed  art  thou,  O Lord,  who  wilt  make  Zion 
rejoice  in  her  children.  Cause  us  to  rejoice,  O Lord  our 
Hod,  in  Llijali  thy  servant,  and  in  the  kingdom  of  the 
house  of  David  thine  anointed.  May  he  speedily  come 
and  gladden  our  hearts.  Let  no  stranger  sit  on  his 
throne,  and  let  others  no  longer  inherit  his  glory,  for 
thou  hast  sworn  unto  him  by  thy  holy  name  that  his 
light  shall  not  be  extinguished  forever  and  ever.  Bless- 
ed art  thou,  ()  Lord,  the  shield  of  David.’  4 For  the  law, 
the  divine  service,  the  prophets,  and  for  44  this  day  of 
rest”  [or  of  memorial],  this  goodly  day  of  holy  convoca- 
tion which  thou  hast  given  to  us,  O Lord,  for  sanctifica- 
tion and  rest  [on  the  Sabbath],  for  honor  and  glory;  for 
all  this,  O Lord  our  King,  we  thank  and  praise  thee. 
Let  thy  name  be  praised  in  the  mouth  of  every  living 
creature  forever  and  ever.  Thy  word,  O our  King,  is 
true,  and  will  abide  forever.  Blessed  art  thou,  King  of 
the  whole  earth,  who  hast  sanctified  the  Sabbath,  and 
Israel,  and  the  day  of  memorial’ ” (Maimonides,  ibid.). 
After  the  Babylonian  captivity,  when  the  Hebrew  lan- 
guage. became  an  unknown  tongue  to  the  common  peo- 
ple, an  interpreter  (“, *J -JHln)  stood  at  the 
desk  by  the  side  of  those  who  read  the  lessons,  and  par- 
aphrased the  section  from  the  law  into  Chaldee  verse 
by  verse,  the  reader  pausing  at  every  verse,  whilst  the 
lesson  from  the  prophets  lie  paraphrased  three  verses  at 
a time  (Mislma,  Megilla,  iv,  4);  and  Lightfoot  is  of 
opinion  t lint  St.  l’aul,  in  1 Cor.  xiv,  22,  refers  to  this  cir- 
cumstance ( Horn  I/rbraicie  in  loco).  The  lesson  from  the 
law  was  on  these  occasions  rendered  into  Chaldee  quite 
literally,  owing  to  the  fear  which  both  the  interpreters 
and  the  congregation  had  lest  a free  explanation  of  it 
might  misrepresent  its  sense,  whilst  greater  freedom  was 
exercised  with  the  lesson  from  the  prophets.  Hence 
loose  paraphrases  and  lengthy  expositions  were  tolera- 
ted and  looked  for  both  from  the  professional  interpreter 
and  those  of  the  congregation  who  were  called  up  to 
read,  and  who  lelt  that  they  could  do  it  with  edification 
to  the  audience.  The  Sabbatic  lesson  from  the  law  was, 
as  we  have  seen, divided  into  seven  sections  or  chapters, 
each  of  which  hail  at  least  three,  verses,  according  to 
the  verses  of  those  days,  so  that  the  whole  consisted  of 
at  least  twenty-one  such  verses.  The  lesson  from  the 
prophets  was  not  portioned  out  to  seven  different  indi- 
viduals, but  has  alsijat  least  twenty-one  verses  (Mishna, 
M egilla,  iv,  4 ; Maimonides,  Jod.  Ua-Chezaka  Hilchoth 
Tvfihilla,  xii,  13).  The  lesson  from  the  law  for  the  Day 
of  Atonement  is  divided  into  six  chapters,  for  festivals 
into  live,  for  new  moon  into  four,  and  for  Mondays  and 
Thursdays  into  three  chapters  or  sections.  The’  num- 
ber of  persons  called  up  to  the  reading  of  the  law  always 
corresponds  to  the  number  of  sections.  For  Mondavs 
and  Thursdays,  new  moon,  and  the  week  days  of  the 


5 IIAPHTARAII 

festivals  Pin),  there  are  no  corresponding  les- 

sons from  the  prophets  (Mishna,  Megilla , iv,  1-3). 

4.  The  Origin  of  this  Institution.— The  origin  of  this 
custom  may  easily  be  traced.  The  Bible  emphatically 
and  repeatedly  enjoins  upon  every  Israelite  to  study  its 
contents  (Dent.  iv,9;  xxxii,46)  ; Moses  himself  ordered 
that  the  whole  law  should  be  read  publicly  at  the  end 
of  every  Sabbatic  year  (xxxi,  10-12),  whilst  Joshua  urg- 
es that  it  should  be  studied  day  and  night  (i,8;  comp, 
also  I’sa.  i,  2 sq.).  Now  the  desire  to  carry  out  this  in- 
junction literally,  and  yet  the  utter  impossibility  of  doing 
it  on  the  part  of  those  who  had  to  work  for  daily  bread 
all  the  week,  and  who  could  not  afford  to  buy  the  neces- 
sarily expensive  scrolls,  gave  rise  to  this  institution. 
On  the  Sabbath  and  festivals  all  were  relieved  from 
their  labor,  and  could  attend  places  of  worship  where 
the  inspired  writings  were  deposited,  anil  where  care 
could  be  taken  that  no  private  interpretation  should  be 
palmed  upon  the  Word  of  God.  Hence  both  James 
(Acts  xv,  21)  and  Josephus  ( Contra  Apion , ii,  17)  speak 
of  it  as  a very  ancient  custom,  and  the  Talmud  tells  us 
that  the  division  of  each  Sabbatic  lesson  into  seven  sec- 
tions was  introduced  in  honor  of  the  Persian  king  (Me- 
gilla, 23).  which  shows  that  this  custom  obtained  ante- 
rior to  the  Persian  rule.  Indeed  Maimonides  positive- 
ly asserts  that  Moses  himself  ordained  the  hebdomal 
reading  of  the  law  ( Hilchoth  Tephilla,  xii,  1).  Equally 
natural  is  the  division  of  the  law  into  Sabbatic  sections, 
as  the  whole  of  it  could  not  he  read  at  once.  The  only 
difficulty  is  to  ascertain  positively  whether  the  annual, 
or  the  triennial  division  was  the  more  ancient  one.  A 
triennial  division  is  mentioned  in  Megilla  20,  b.  as  cur- 
rent in  Palestine;  with  this  agree  the  reference  to  155 
sections  of  the  law  in  the  Midrash,  Esther  116,  b,  and 
the  Masoretic  division  of  the  Pentateuch  into  154  Se- 
rf) trim.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  R.  Simeon  b.  Eleazar, 
a Palestinian,  declared  that  Moses  instituted  the  reading 
of  Lev.  xxvi  before  the  Feast  of  Pentecost,  and  Deut. 
xxviii  before  New  Year,  which  most  unquestionably  pre- 
suppose the  annual  division  of  the  Pentateuch  into  54 
Parshioth.  This  is,  moreover,  confirmed  by  the  state- 
ment (Ibid. 31,  a)  that  the  section  TXT1  (Deut, 

xxxiii,  1-xxxiv,  12)  was  read  oil  the  ninth  day  of  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles,  thus  terminating  the  annual  cycle, 
as  well  as  by  the  fact  that  the  annual  festival  of  the  re- 
joicing of  the  law  (HT.r  r.iTCw)  which  commemorates 
the  annual  finishing  of  the  perusal  of  the  Pentateuch 
[see  Tabernacles, Feast  of]  was  an  ancient  institu- 
tion. We  must  therefore  conclude  that  the  annual  cy- 
cle which  is  now  prevalent  among  the  Jews  was  the 
generally  adopted  one,  at  least  since  the  Maccabiean 
times,  whilst  the  triennial, though  the  older,  was  the  ex- 
ception. Usage,  however,  probably  varied,  for  we  find 
that  our  Saviour  (Luke  iv,  16-21),  in  accordance  with 
this  custom,  on  invitation  read  and  expounded,  appar- 
ently on  a Sabbath  in  January,  a passage  (Isa.lxi,  1,  2), 
not  contained  at  all  in  the  present  scheme  of  Ilaphtaroth. 

It  is  far  more  difficult  to  trace  the  origin  of  the 
llaphtarah,  or  the  lesson  from  the  prophets,  and  its  sig- 
nification. A very  ancient  tradition  tells  us  that  the 
Syrians  had  interdicted  the  reading  of  the  law,  anil  car- 
ried away  the  scrolls  containing  it,  and  that  appropriate 
sections  from  the  prophets  were  therefore  chosen  to  re- 
place the  Pentateuch  (Zunz,  GottesdienstlicheVor.  p.  5), 
whilst  Elias  Levita  traces  the  origin  of  the  llaphtarah 
to  persecutions  of  Antiochus  Epiphanes.  In  his  Lex.  (s. 
v.  “i~E)  he  says,  “The  wicked  Antiochus, king  of  Greece, 
prohibited  the  Jews  to  read  the  law  publicly.  They 
therefore  selected  sections  from  the  prophets  of  the 
same  import  as  the  Sabbatic  lessons  . . . and  though 
this  prohibition  has  now  ceased,  this  custom  has  not 
been  left  off,  and  to  this  day  we  read  a section  from  the 
prophets  after  the  reading  of  the  law;”  and  we  see  no 
reason  to  reject  this  account.  The  objection  of  Vitrin- 
ga,  Frankel,  Hcrzfeld,  etc.,  that  Antiochus,  who  wanted 
to  exterminate  Judaism,  would  not  wage  war  against 


IIAIlxV 


69 


TIARAN 


the  Pentateuch  exclusively , but  would  equally  destroy 
the  prophetic  books,  and  that  this  implies  a knowledge 
on  the  part  of  the  soldiers  of  the  distinction  between 
the  Pentateuch  and  the  other  inspired  writings,  is  obvi- 
ated by  the  fact  that  there  was  an  external  difference 
between  the  rolls  of  the  Pentateuch  and  the  other  sa- 
cred books,  that  the  Jews  claimed  the  Pentateuch  as  their 
law  and  rule  of  faith,  and  that  this  was  the  reason  why 
it  especially  was  destroyed.  (The  law  has  two  rollers, 
i.  e.  has  a roller  attached  to  each  ol  the  two  ends  of  the 
vellum  on  which  it  is  written,  and  every  weekly  portion 
when  read  on  the  Sabbath  is  unrolled  from  the  right 
roller  and  rolled  on  the  left  j so  that  when  the  law  is 
opened  on  the  next  Sabbath  the  portion  appointed  for 
that  day  is  at  once  found.  Whereas  the  prophetic  books 
have  only  one  roller,  and  the  lesson  from  the  prophets 
has  to  be  sought  out  on  every  occasion  [compare  Baba 
Batina,  14  a].)  This  is  corroborated  by  1 Macc.  i,  56, 
where  the  law  only  is  said  to  have  been  burned.  Ac- 
cordingly rnasi-r,  from  to  liberate , to  free,  signi- 
fies the  liberating  lesson,  the  portion  from  the  prophets 
which  is  read  instead  of  the  portion  from  the  law  that 
could  not  be  read,  and  which  liberates  from  the  injunc- 
tion of  reading  the  Pentateuch.  For  the  other  opinions 
about  the  signification  of  1 Iaphtarah,  we  refer  to  the  lit- 
erature quoted  below. 

5.  Literature. — Maimonides,  Jod  Ha- Chezaha  Ililchoth 
TepJnlla ; Bartolocci,  Bibliotheca  Magna  Itabbinica,  ii, 
593  sq. ; Zuuz,  Die  Gottesclienstlichen  Vortrdge  dev  Ju- 
den,  cap.  l , I-’rankel,  Vorstudien  zu  tier  Septuaginta  (Leip- 
zig, 1841),  p.  48  sq. ; Rapaport,  Beech  Millin,  p.  66  sq. ; 
Monatschrifl  fur  Geschichte  und  Wissenschaft  des  Juilen- 
thums,  i,  352 , xi,222;  Herzfeld,  Geschichte  des  Vol/ces  Is- 
rael,  ii,  209;  Der  Israelitische  Volkslehrer,  ii,  205;  Ben 
Chananja,  v,  125. — Kitto.  s.  v. 

Ha'ra  (Ileb.  Ilara',  tort),  a province  of  Assyria. 
We  read  that  Tiglatli-pilneser  “brought  the  Rcuben- 
ites,  Gadites,  and  the  half  tribe  of  Manasseh  unto  Ha- 
lah,  and  Habor,  and  Ilara,  and  to  the  river  Gozan’’  (1 
Chron.  v,  26).  The  parallel  passage  in  2 Kings  xviii, 
11,  omits  Ilara,  and  adds  “in  the  cities  of  the  Medes.” 
Bocliart  consequently  supposes  that  Ilara  was  either  a 
part  of  Media,  or  another  name  for  that  country.  He 
shows  that  Herodotus  (vii,62)  and  other  ancient  writers 
call  the  Medes  Arians,  and  their  country  Aria.  He 
further  supposes  that  the  name  Hara,  which  signifies 
mountainous,  may  have  been  given  to  that  northern  sec- 
tion of  Media  subsequently  called  by  the  Arabs  El-gebal 
(“  the  mountains ,”  see  Bochart,  Opp.  i,  194).  The  words 
Aria  and  Hara,  however,  are  totally  different  both  in 
meaning  and  origin.  The  Medes  were  a branch  of  the 
great  Arian  family  who  came  originally  from  India,  and 
who  took  their  name,  according  to  Muller  (Science  of 
Language,  p.  237  sq.,  2d  ed.),  from  the  Sanscrit  word  A rya , 
which  means  noble,  “ of  a good  family.”  Its  et ymolog- 
ical  meaning  seems  to  be  “one  who  tills  the  ground;” 
and  it  is  thus  allied  to  the  Latin  arare  (see  also  Raw- 
linson’s  Herodotus,  i,  401). 

Hara  is  joined  with  Hala,  Habor,  and  the  river  Go- 
zan. These  were  all  situated  in  Western  Assyria,  be- 
tween the  Tigris  and  Euphrates,  and  along  the  banks 
of  the  Khabur.  We  may  safely  conclude,  therefore, 
that  Hara  could  not  have  been  far  distant  from  that  re- 
gion. It  is  somewhat  remarkable  that  the  name  is  not 
given  in  either  the  Sept,  or  Peshito  version.  Some 
have  hence  imagined  that  the  word  wras  interpolated 
after  these  versions  were  made.  This,  however,  is  a 
rash  criticism,  as  it  exists  in  all  Hebrew  MSS.,  and  also 
in  Jerome’s  version  (see  Robinson’s  Calmet,  s.  v.  Gozan; 
Grant’s  Nestorian  Christians,  p.  120).  The  conjecture 
that  Hara  and  Haran  are  identical  cannot  be  sustained, 
though  the  situation  of  the  latter  might  suit  the  re- 
quirements of  the  Biblical  narrative,  and  its  Greek  clas- 
sical name  Carrhaz  resembles  Hara.  See  Haran.  The 
Hebrew  words  and  ‘pn  are  radically  different. 

Hara  may  perhaps  have  been  a local  name  applied  to 


the  mountainous  region  north  of  Gozan,  called  by  Stra- 
bo and  Ptolemy  Mans  M asms,  and  now  Karju  Baghlar 
(Strabo,  xvi,  23 , Ptolemy,  v,  18,  2). — Kitto,  s.  v. 

Har'adah  (Heb.  with  the  article  ha-Char adah' , 
the  fright:  Sept.  XapacuS),  the  twenty-fifth 
station  of  the  Israelites  in  the  desert  (Numb,  xxxiii, 
24) ; perhaps  at  the  head  of  the  wadys  north-east  of  Je- 
bel  Araif  en-Nakali,  on  the  western  brow'  of  the  high 
plateau  east  of  Ain  el-Mazen.  See  Exode. 

Harara.  See  House. 

Ha'ran  appears  in  the  Eng.  Bible  as  the  name  of  a 
place  and  also  of  three  men,  which,  however,  are  repre- 
sented by  two  essentially  different  Hebrew  words.  See 
also  Beth-IIakan. 

1.  Haran  (Heb.  Haran',  pfl,  mountaineer ; Sept. 
Appdv),  probably  the  eldest  son  of  Tcrali,  brother  of 
Abraham  and  Nahor,  and  father  of  Lot,  Milcah,  and  Is- 
cali.  He  died  m his  native  place  before  his  father  Tc- 
rah  (an  event  that  may  hi  some  degree  have  prepared 
the  family  to  leave  Ur),  which,  from  the  manner  in 
which  it  is  mentioned,  appears  to  have  been  a much 
rarer  case  in  those  days  than  at  the  present  (Gen.  xi, 
27  sq.).  B.C.  2223-ante  2088. — Kitto.  His  sepulchre 
was  still  shown  there  when  Josephus  wrote  his  history 
(A  nt.  i,  6,  5).  The  ancient  Jewish  tradition  is  that  Ha- 
ran was  burnt  in  the  furnace  of  Nimrod  for  his  wavering 
conduct  during  the  fiery  trial  of  Abraham.  (See  the 
Targum  Ps.-Jonathan ; Jerome’s  Qtuest.  in  Genesim,  and 
the  notes  thereto  in  the  edit,  of  Migne.)  This  tradition 
seems  to  have  originated  in  a translation  of  the  word 
Ur,  which  in  Hebrew  signifies  “fire.” — Smith.  See 
Abraham. 

2.  Charan  (Heb.  Charan',  pH,  probably  from  the 
Arabic,  parched ; Sept.  Xappav,  also  Josephus,  Ant.  i, 
16 , N.  T.,  Acts  vii,  2,  where  it  is  Anglicized  “ Charran”), 
the  name  of  the  place  where  Abraham,  after  he  had 
been  called  from  Ur  of  the'Chaldees,  tarried  till  his  father 
Terah  died,  when  he  proceeded  to  the  land  of  Canaan 
(Gen.  xi,  31,  38;  Acts  vii,  4).  The  elder  branch  of  the 
family  still  remained  at  Haran,  which  led  to  the  inter- 
esting journeys  thither  described  in  the  patriarchal  his- 
tory (see  Hauck,  I)e  prof ectionibus  Abrahami  e Charris 
[Lips.  1754,  1776]) — first,  that  of  Abraham’s  servant  to 
obtain  a wife  for  Isaac  (Gen.  xxiv)  ; and,  next,  that  of 
Jacob  when  he  fled  to  evade  the  wrath  of  Esau  (Gen. 
xxviii,  101.  It  is  said  to  be  in  Mesopotamia  (Gen.  xxiv, 
10),  or,  more  definitely,  in  Padan-Aram  xxv,  20),  which 
is  the  “cultivated  district  at  the  foot  of  the  hills”  (Stan- 
ley, Syr.  and  Pal.  p.  129,  note),  a name  wrell  applying  to 
the  bcautifid  stretch  of  country  which  lies  below  Mount 
Masius,  between  the  Khabur  and  the  Euphrates.  See 
Padan-Aram.  Haran  is  enumerated  among  the  towns 
which  had  been  taken  by  the  predecessors  of  Sennach- 
erib, king  of  Assyria  (1  Kings  xix,  12;  Isa.  xxxvii,  12), 
and  it  is  also  mentioned  by  Ezekiel  (xxvii,  23)  among 
the  places  which  traded  with  Tyre.  It  is  alluded  to  in 
the  cuneiform  inscriptions  (q.  v.).  Jerome  thus  de- 
scribes Haran : “ Charran,  a city  of  Mesopotamia  be- 
yond Edessa,  which  to  this  day  is  called  Charra,  where 
the  Roman  army  was  cut  off,  and  Crassus,  its  leader, 
taken”  ( Onomast . s.  v.  Charran).  Guided  by  these  de- 
scriptions and  statements,  which  certainly  appear  suffi- 
ciently clear  and  full,  sacred  geographers  have  almost 
universally  identified  Haran  with  the  Cairo:  (Kappai) 
of  classical  writers  (Herodian.  iv,  13,  7 ; Ptol.  v,  l*,  12 ; 
Strabo,  xvi,  747),  and  the  Harr  an  of  the  Arabs  (Sehul- 
tens.  Index  Geogr.  in  Vitam.  Saladini,  s.  v.).  The  plain 
bordering  on  this  town  (Ammian.  Marc,  xxiii,  3)  is  cel- 
ebrated in  history  as  the  scene  of  a battle  in  which  the 
Roman  army  was  defeated  by  the  Parthians,  and  the 
triumvir  Crassus  killed  (Plin.  v,  21 ; Dio  Cass,  xl,  25; 
Lucan,  i,  104).  Abidfeda  (Tab.  Syria,  p.  164)  speaks  of 
Haran  as  formerly  a great  city,  which  lay  in  an  arid 
and  barren  tract  of  country  in  the  province  of  Diar 
Modhar.  About  the  time  of  the  Christian  a-ra  it  ap- 


70 


II AR  BAUGH 


IIARARITE 

poors  to  have  been  included  in  the  kingdom  of  Eucssa 
l Mos.  Chor.  ii,  32),  which  was  ruled  bv  Agbarus.  Af- 
terwards it  passed  with  that  kingdom  under  the  domin- 
ion of  the  Homans,  and  appears  as  a Homan  city  in  the 
wars  of  Caracalla  (MoH.Chnr.ii,  72)  and  Julian  (Jo.Ma- 
lal.  p.  321*).  It  is  remarkable  that  the  people  of  Ilar- 
r-'in  retained  to  a late  time  the.  Chaldaean  language  and 
the  worship  of  ChalcUean  deities  (Asscmani,  Or.  i, 
327 : t'hwolson's  Ssabier  und  der  Ssabismus,  ii,  89). 

"About  midway  in  the  district  above  designated  is  a 
town  still  called’  llarran,  which  really  seems  never  to 
have  changed  its  appellation,  and  beyond  any  reasona- 
ble doubt  is  the  llaran  or  Charrau  of  Scripture  (Bo- 
chart's  Phaleg,  i,  14;  Ewald's  Geschichte,  i,  384).  It  is 
onlv  peopled  bv  a few  families  of  wandering  Arabs,  who 
are’ led  thither’ by  a plentiful  supply  of  water  from  sev- 
eral small  streams.  . Its  situation  is  lixed  by  major  Ren- 
nell  as  being  twenty-nine  miles  from  Orfah,  and  oceu- 
pving  a Hat  and  sandy  plain.  It  lies  (according  to 
D'Anville)  in  3G3  40'  N.  lat.,  and  39°  2'  45"  E.  long. 
(See  Niebuhr,  Travels , ii,  410;  Hitter,  Erdk.  x,  244;  xi, 
291 ; Cellar.  Xotit.  ii,  726;  Manner  t,  v,  2,  280;  Michae- 
lis,  Suppl.  930.)  Hamm  stands  on  the  banks  of  a small 
river  called  Belik,  which  flows  into  the  Euphrates  about 
li fry  miles  south  of  the  town.  From  it  a number  of 
leading  roads  radiate  to  the  great  fords  of  the  Tigris 
and  Euphrates;  and  it  thus  formed  an  important  station 
on  the  line  of  commerce  between  Central  and  Western 
Asia.  This  may  explain  why  Terah  came  to  it,  and 
why  it  was  mentioned  among  the  places  which  supplied 
the  marts  of  Tyre  (Ezek.  xxvii,  23).  Crassus  was  prob- 
ably marching  along  this  great  route  when  he  was  at- 
tacked by  the  l’arthians.  Dr.  Beke,  in  his  Origines 
Uiblicip  (p.  122  Sfj.),  made  the  somewhat  startling  state- 
ment that  llaran  must  have  been  near  Damascus,  and 
that  Aram-Xaliaraim  is  the  country  between  the  Abana 
and  Tharpar.  After  lying  dormant  for  a quarter  of  a 
century,  this  theory  was  again  revived  in  1860.  The 
Rev.  .1.  L.  Porter  visited  and  described  a small  village 
in  the  plain,  four  hours  east  of  Damascus,  called  Hamm 
ol-Awamid  (“ llarran  of  the  columns”).  The  descrip- 
tion having  met  the  eye  of  Dr.  Beke  (in  Fire  Years  in 
Damascus,  i,  376),  he  at  once  concluded  that  this  village 
was  the  site  of  the  real  “city  of  Xalior.”  lie  has  since 
visited  llarran  el-Awamld,  and  travelled  from  it  to  Gil- 
ead, and  is  more  confirmed  in  liis  view,  though  he  ap- 
pears to  stand  alone.  1 1 is  arguments  have  not  been 
sutlicicut  to  set  aside  the  powerful  evidence  in  favor  of 
llarran  in  Mesopotamia.  The  student  may  see  the 
whole  subject  discussed  in  the  Athe/ueum  for  Nov.  23, 
89;  Dee.  7,  1*61 ; Feb.  1,  15;  March  I,  22,  29;  April  (5, 
19;  and  May  24,  1*62;  also  in  Stanley’s  Lectures  on  the 
Jewish  Church,  i,  117  sq.— Kitto,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v. 

3.  ( it. \ic.\N  (1  lob.  same  as  last,  meaning  here  noble, 
according  to  burst ; Sept.  ’Appdv  v.  r.  ’A nd/i).  The  son 
of  t ’alch  of  Judah  by  his  concubine  Ephali,  and  father 
ol'Gazez  (l  Citron.  ii,46).  U.C. between  161*  and  1083. 

4.  IIaran  (licit,  same  as  No.  1;  Sept.  ‘Anav  v.  r. 

Ade).  i >uo  of  the  three  sons  of  Sliimei,  a Levi  to  of  the 
family  u|  Gershon,  appointed  by  David  to  superintend 
the  otliccs  at  the  tabernacle  (l  Chron.  xxiii,  9).  B(J 
loll.  ' 

Ha'rarite,  the  (Hob.  always  [except  in  2 Sam. 
xxiii,  II  | with  the  art .ha-Harari,'  -vinn),  a distinc- 
tive epithet  of  three  meml»ers  of  David’s  body-guard; 
probably  as  natives  of  the  mountains  pH,  plur.  const r. 
*77^  <>f  Judah  or  Ephraim;  hut  according  to  Fiirst 
from  some  town  of  the  name  of  liar  pH).  See  David. 

1.  “Siiam.maii  [q.v.j,  the  sou  of  Agee”  (2  Sam.  xxiii, 
11  [ Sept,  o A on  pi  v.  r.  ’Apouynioc,  Vulg.  de  A ran,  A. 
^ the  1 fararite”],  33  [6  ‘Aatopirgg  v.  r.  ’Apmcirpg, 
A roritcs~\,  which  latter  verse  shows  that  it  was  a desig- 
nation o|  the  son  and  not  of  the  lather),  a different  per- 
son from  “ Shammoth  the  llarorite”  [q.  v.]  (1  Chron. 
xi,  27),  or  “Shammah  the  Ilaroclite”  fq.  v.l  (2  Sam 
xxiii,  25).  See  Agee. 


2.  “Jonathan  [q.  v.],  the  son  of  Shage”  (1  Chron. 
xi,  34,  Sept.  6 'Apaoi , Vulg.  A r mites),  mentioned  in  the 
parallel  passage  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  32)  without  any  such  dis- 
tinction. See  Shage. 

3.  “Ahiaai  [q.  v'.],  the  son  of  Sacar”  (1  Chron.  xi, 35, 

Sept,  6 ’Apnpt  v.  r.  ’Ay dp, Vulg.  A rarites),  or,  in  the  par- 
allel passage  (2  Sam.  xxiii, 33), less  accurately, “Ahiam, 
[the]  son  of Sharar  [q.v.j  the  Ararite " (Heb.with  the 
art.  ha-Arari',  Sept,  o ’Apacirrig  v.  r.  ’Apat, 

etc.,  Vulg.  A roriles,  A.  V.  “ the  Hararite”).  See  Sacar. 

Haraseth.  See  Kir-Haraseth. 

Harbaugh,  Henry,  a prominent  minister  and  writer 
of  the  German  Reformed  Church  in  the  United  States, 
was  born  Oct.  28, 1 8 17,  near  Waynesborough,  Pa.  He  was 
descended  from  a German  family,  whose  name  was  Her- 
bach,  and  which  had  come  to  this  country  in  1736  from 
Switzerland.  His  father  was  an  elder  in  the  German 
Reformed  Church  at  Waynesborough.  In  early  youth 
he  manifested  a desire  to  study  for  the  ministry,  but  his 
father  was  unwilling  to  allow  him  to  do  so.  He  there- 
fore found  employment  first  with  a carpenter,  and  sub- 
sequently with  a mill-owner.  After  a time  he  became 
teacher  in  a primary  school.  The  money  saved  in  these 
positions  enabled  him  to  enter  in  1840  Marshall  College, 
Merccrsburg,  which  was  at  that  time  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Dr.  Kevin.  Both  the  students’  societies  of  Mer- 
cersburg  College  desired  to  have  him  a member.  “ We 
have  many  praying  members,”  the  Goetheans  represent- 
ed to  him;  “the  others  have  no  religion.”  For  Ilar- 
baugh  this  was  a reason  to  join  the  other  society,  that 
they  might  have  one  to  do  the  praying  for  them.  His 
financial  means  did  not  alloAV  him  to  finish  his  course  in 
the  college  and  the  Theological  Seminary.  He  spent 
two  years  in  the  former  and  one  in  the  latter,  and,  hav- 
ing passed  his  examination,  became  in  1843  pastor  of 
the  congregation  in  Lewisburg.  In  1850  he  accepted  a 
call  from  the  congregation  in  Lancaster,  which  he  left 
again  in  I860  for  Lebanon.  In  1863  he  was  elected  by 
the  Synod  professor  of  theology  in  the  Seminary  of  JMer- 
cersburg,  in  the  place  of  Prof.  B.  C.  Wolff.  In  this  posi- 
tion he  remained  until  his  death,  which  occurred  Dec. 
28,  1867.  Harbaugh  was  an  indefatigable  worker,  and 
it  was  overexertion  that  brought  on  the  disease  of  the 
brain  by  which  lie  was  carried  off.  The  loss  of  his  w ife 
and  a child  in  1847  directed  his  thoughts  to  a special 
consideration  of  the  state  after  death,  and  thus  called 
for  his  works  on  Heaven,  or  the  Sainted  Dead: — The 
Heavenly  Honie: — The  Heavenly  Recognition: — Future 
Life  (3  vols.).  Besides  these,  he  wrote  The  Golden  Cen- 
ser, a collection  of  “hymns  and  chants”  for  Sabbath- 
schools: — .4  Child's  Catechism : — The  Glory  of  Woman: 
— a volume  of  Poems : — Union  with  the  Church : — Youth 
in  Earnest — Life  of  Th.  D.  Fischer: — and  a Life  of  Mi- 
chael Schlatter,  one  of  the  founders  of  the  German  Re- 
formed Church  in  America  in  the  last  century.  His 
most  important  urork  is  the  one  on  The  Fathers  of  the 
German  Reformed  Church  in  America  (2  vols.).  At  the 
time  of  his  death  he  was  editor  of  the  Merccrsburg  Re- 
view', and  also  a regular  contributor  to  the  columns  of 
the  Reformed  Church  Messenger,  which  latter  relation 
he  sustained  during  the  last  six  years.  He  Avas  like- 
wise the  originator  of  the  Guardian,  and  its  editor  for 
seventeen  years,  to  the  close  of  1866,  during  four  of 
which  it  Avas  published  under  the  direction  of  the  Board 
of  Publication  of  the  German  Reformed  Church.  In 
addition  to  this, lie  furnished  the  reading  matter  for  the 
scA'oral  almanacs  published  hv  this  hoard,  and  edited 
the  Child's  Treasury  for  the  first  year  and  a half  after 
it  came  under  the  direct  control  of  the  Church  Board. 
Dr.  Harbaugh  also  contributed  a number  of  biograph- 
ical articles  to  this  Cyclopaedia.  While,  for  the  AA'orks 
thus  far  mentioned,  lie  used  the  English  language,  he 
is  also  the  author  of  several  excellent  poems  in  the  Ger- 
ma»-PennsylATaiiian  dialect.  In  fact,  the  poems  of  Har- 
baugh belong  among  the  best  that  ha\'e  ever  been  Avrit- 
ten  in  this  dialect.  In  his  theological  vieAvs  Harbaugh 


HARBOKA 


71 


HARDWICK 


was  one  of  the  foremost  representatives  of  the  school 
which  emphasizes  the  efficiency  of  the  sacraments,  and 
the  priestly  character  of  the  ministry.  In  the  Order  of 
Worship  of  the  German  Reformed  Church,  which  was 
published  in  I860,  the  burial  service  was  from  the  pen 
of  Harbaugh.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Harbo'na  (lleb . Charbona',  prob.  Pers. 

for  ass-driver;  Sept.  ’Oapificod  v.  r.  Sajjpd),  one  of  the 
seven  eunuchs  of  king  Ahasnerits  or  Xerxes,  command- 
ed by  him  to  exhibit  the  beauty  of  Vashti  (Estli.  i,  10). 
lie  was  probably  the  same  with  the  one  called  IIakho- 
KAit  (Ileb.  Charbonah,’  k/. ; Sept,  changes  to 

Bowyn^aV),  who  suggested  to  the  king  the  idea  of  hang- 
ing Hainan  on  his  own  gallows  (chap,  vii,  9).  B.C.483- 
473. 

Harbo'iiah  (Esth.  vii,  9).  See  Harbona. 

Hardenberg,  Albrecht,  an  eminent  divine,  was 
born  at  Ilardenberg,  in  Overyssel,  1510.  While  study- 
ing theology. at  Louvain,  he  imbibed  the  reformed  the- 
ology, and  became  a friend  and  follower  of  Melanetlion, 
who  sent  him  to  Cologne.  The  disturbances  there  drove 
him  to  Oldenburg,  where,  and  in  Knyphauseu,  lie  la- 
bored until  his  death  in  1574.  He  is  noted  in  Church 
History  for  his  attempt,  in  1656,  to  introduce  into  the  re- 
public of  Bremen  Calvin’s  doctrine  respecting  the  Lord's 
Supper.  For  the  controversy  to  which  this  gave  rise, 
see  Ilerzog,  Real-Enq/klopadie,  s.  v. ; also  Moslieira,  Ch. 
Hist.  cent,  xvi,  sec.  iii,  pt.  ii,  ch.  ii ; Planck,  1 list.  Prot. 
Theol.  vol.  v. 

Hardenberg,  Jacobus  R.,D.D.,an  eminent  min- 
ister of  the  Reformed  (Dutch)  Church  in  America,  was 
born  at  Rosendale,  N.  Y.,  in  1737.  His  early  opportu- 
nities of  education  were  limited,  but  by  persevering  in- 
dustry he  became  a very  creditable  scholar.  He  was 
ordained  by  the  “Coetus”  in  1757,  and  in  the  long  strife 
between  that  party  and  the  “ Conferences”  in  the  Dutch 
Church,  he  sided  with  the  former.  His  talents  and  rep- 
utation gave  him  great  influence  in  the  final  settlement 
of  these  disputes.  In  1758  he  became  pastor  of  the 
church  at  Raritan,  N.  J.  Queen’s  College  (now  Rut- 
gers’) obtained  its  charter  in  1770.  It  languished  during 
the  Revolution,  but  was  resuscitated,  with  Dr.  Harden- 
berg at  its  head  as  president,  in  1786.  He  died  Oct. 
30,  1790.  — Sprague,  Annals,  ix,  28.  See  Reformed 
(Dutch)  Church. 

Harding,  Stephen,  a religious  reformer  of  the 
12th  century,  was  of  a noble  English  family.  After 
making  a pilgrimage  to  Rome,  he  entered  the  Benedic- 
tine convent,  of  St.  Claude  de  Joux.  He  subsequently 
was  chosen  abbot  of  the  monastery  of  Bbzc,  with  a view 
to  the  reformation  of  its  discipline.  From  Beze  he  was 
transferred  to  Citeaux.of  which  monastery  he  was  elect- 
ed abbot  in  1109,  on  the  death  of  Alberic.  In  1119  he 
drew  up,  conjointly  with  St.  Bernard  (of  Clairvaux)  and 
other  members  of  the  brotherhood,  the  constitution  of 
the  Cistercian  order,  entitled  Carta  Carifatis.  He  re- 
mained at  the  head  of  the  order  until  his  death  in  1 134. 
See  Cistercians.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Harding,  Thomas,  Jesuit,  was  bom  at  Comb-Mar- 
tin, in  Devonshire,  in  1512,  “and  was  educated  at  Barn- 
staple and  'Winchester,  whence  he  was  removed  to  New 
College,  Oxford,  of  which  he  became  fellow  in  1536.  In 
1542  he  was  chosen  Hebrew  professor  of  the  university 
by  Henry  Till ; but  no  sooner  had  Edward  VI  ascend- 
ed the  throne,  than  Harding  became  a zealous  Protes- 
tant. He  seemed,  indeed,  merely  to  be  restrained  by 
prudence  from  proceeding  to  great  extremes.  In  the 
country  zealous  Protestants  were  edified  by  his  instruc- 
tions. At  Oxford,  he  himself  received  instruction  from 
Peter  Martyr.  From  St.  Mary’s  pulpit  he  derided  the 
Tridentine  fathers  as  illiterate , paltry  papists,  and  in- 
veighed against  Romish  peculiarities.”  On  the  acces- 
sion of  queen  Mary  he  became  again  a papist,  and  was 
made  chaplain  and  confessor  to  Gardiner,  bishop  of 
Winchester.  In  1555  he  was  made  treasurer  of  the  ca- 


thedral of  Salisbury.  “When  Elizabeth  came  to  the 
crowu  he  could  not  muster  face  for  a new  recantation 
and  being  deprived  of  his  preferment,  fled  to  Louvain, 
and  became,  says  Wood,  “ the  target  of  Popery”  in  a 
warm  controversy  with  bishop  Jewel,  against  whom,  be- 
tween 1554  and  1567,  he  wrote  seven  pieces.”  lie  died 
in  1572.  See  Life  of  Jewel;  Zurich  Letters;  Burnet, 
Reformation,  i,  271;  Wood,  .1  theme  Oxonienses,  vol.  i; 
Dodd,  Church  Hist.;  Prince,  Worthies  of  Devon;  Chal- 
mers, General  Biotj.  Diet. ; llook,  Eccles.  Bioej.  vol.  v. 

Hardouin  (Harduinus),  Jean,  a Jesuit,  one  of  the 
most  learned,  but  most  eccentric  members  of  his  order, 
was  born  A.D.  1646,  at  Quimper,  in  Brittany.  His  par- 
adoxes on  ancient  history  are  well  known,  and  had  their 
origin  chiefly  in  the  vanity  which  prompted  him  to  ob- 
tain celebrity  at  any  cost.  He  endeavored  to  prove 
that  the  iEneid  ascribed  to  Virgil,  and  the  odes  attrib- 
uted to  Horace,  were  really  composed  by  some  monks 
during  the  Middle  Ages!  He  edited  an  edition  of  the 
Councils  to  the  year  1714  (12  vols.  fob),  which  is  much 
esteemed.  See  Concilia.  This  may  appear  singular, 
considering  that  Hardouin  looked  upon  all  councils  pre- 
ceding that  of  Trent  as  supposititious.  Father  Brim, 
of  the  Oratory,  knowing  the  opinions  of  the  Jesuit  on 
that  point,  asked  him  one  day,  “ How  did  it  happen  that 
you  published  an  edition  of  the  Councils?”  Hardouin 
answered,  “Only  God  and  I know  that.”  He  died  at 
the  College  of  St.  Louis,  Paris,  Sept.  3, 1729.  His  most 
noted  work  is  his  Chronologice  ex  Nummis  Antiquis  res- 
titutes Prolusio  de  Nummis  Herodiadum  (Paris,  1693, 
4to),  in  which  he  labors  to  show  that,  with  few  excep- 
tions, the  writings  ascribed  to  the  ancients  are  wholly 
spurious.  He  wrote  also  Chronologia  Yet.  Testameuti 
(Paris,  1697,  4to)  : — Comment  urine  in  Nov.  Test.  (Amst. 
1741,  fol.) : — De  situ  Paradisi  Terrestris  Disquisitio  (in 
his  edit,  of  Pliny)  : — Plinii  llistoria  Naturalis  (in  the 
Delpliin  classics): — Opera  sclecta  (1709, fob).  Ilis  Op- 
era Omnia  (Amsterdam,  1733,  fob)  contains  some  curious 
pieces,  among  which  are  his  Pseudo- 1 ’irgilius,  Pseudo- 
IJoratius,  and  especially  his  Athei  detecti,  against  Janse- 
nius,  Amauld,  Nicole,  Pascal,  Quesnel,  Des  Cartes,  etc. 
A posthumous  work  of  his,  Prolegomena  ad  Censuram 
Scriptormn  Veterum  (1766, 8vo),  contains  his  full  theory 
of  the  production  of  the  classics  by  the  monks  of  the 
Middle  Ages.  See  P.  Oudin,  Eloges  de  quelques  auteurs 
franqais ; Moreri,  Grand  Diet,  histor.;  Dupin,  Bill,  des 
auteurs  eccles.  xix,  109;  Joum.  des  Savants,  June,  1726, 
p.226;  March,  1727,  p.328;  January- April,  1728,  p.  579; 
La  Croze,  Dissert,  hist,  sur  divers  sujets,  p.  231 ; Iloefcr, 
Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  357. 

Hardt,  Hermann  von  der.  See  Hermann. 

Hardwick,  Charles,  a minister  of  the  Church  of 
England,  was  bom  at  Slingsbv,  Yorkshire,  September  22, 
1821.  At  fifteen  years  of  age  he  became  pupil  assistant 
teacher  in  Thornton  Grammar-school,  and  in  1838  he 
was  made  assistant  tutor  in  the  academy  at  Malton,  In 
1840  he  entered  the  University  of  Cambridge  (Catha- 
rine’s Hall),  graduating  m 1844  as  first  senior  optime. 
In  1845  he  obtained  a fellowship  in  Catharine’s  Hall;  in 
1851  he  was  appointed  Cambridge  preacher  at  the  Chap- 
el Royal,  Whitehall ; and  in  1853,  professor  of  divinity 
in  Queen’s  College,  Birmingham,  which  office  he  held 
only  for  a few  months.  In  1855  he  was  made  lecturer 
in  divinity  in  King’s  College,  Cambridge,  and  “Chris- 
tian Advocate.”  In  fulfilling  the  latter  office,  he  pre- 
pared a work  (incomplete,  but  yet  of  great  value  to  the 
new  science  of  Comparative  Theology),  under  the  title 
Christ  and  other  Masters ; an  Historical  Inquiry  into 
some  of  the  chief  Parallelisms  and  Contrasts  between  < 'hris- 
tiamty  and  the  Religious  Systems  of  the.  Ancient  World 
(London  and  Cambridge,  2d  edit.  1833,  2 vols.  fcp.  8vo). 
During  a summer  tour  he  was  killed  by  a fall  in  the 
Pyrenees,  Aug.  18,  1859.  ITis  literary  activity  was  very 
great,  and  it  was  accompanied  by  thorough  scholarship 
and  accuracy.  Besides  editing  a number  of  works  for 
the  University  press  and  for  the  Percy  Society,  he  pub- 


HARE 


HARDY  - 

fished  the  following,  which  are  likely  to  hold  a durable 
place  ill  theological  literature,  viz.,  .1  History  of  the  Thir- 
ty-nine Articles  (Cambridge,  1851 ; 2d  ed.  revised,  1 859 ; 
reprinted  in  Philadelphia,  12mo) Twenty  Sermons  for 
Town  Congregations  (1853,  cr.  8vo) A History  of  the 
Christian  Church , Middle  Aye  (Cambridge,  1853,  fcp. 
8vo):— A History  of  the  Christian  Church  during  the 
Reformation  (Cambridge,  JH56,  fcp.8vo). — Sketch  prefix- 
ed to  second  edition  oj  Christ  and  other  Masters  (I860). 

Hardy,  Nathaniel,  D.D.,  an  English  divine,  was 
bom  in  London  in  1618;  was  educated  at  Magdalen  Hall, 
Oxford,  and  became  rector  of  .St.Dionis  Back,  London. 
He  was  a decided  Royalist,  and  yet  remained  a popular 
preacher  during  the  Commonwealth.  In  1G60  he  be- 
came archdeacon  of  Lewes  and  dean  of  Rochester.  He 
died  in  1670.  His  publications  are,  The  first  Epistle  of 
John  unfolded  and  applied  (Loud.  1656,  4to)  : — Sermons 
on  solemn  Occasions  (London,  1658,  4to) : — Sermon  on  the 
Eire  of  London  (Lond.  1G6G,  4to). — Darling,  Cyclop.  Bib- 
lioyraphica,  i,  1394. 

Hardy,  Robert  Spence,  an  English  'Methodist 
missionary,  was  bom  at  I’reston,  Lancashire,  July  1, 1803, 
and  was  trained  in  the  house  of  his  grandfather,  a print- 
er and  bookseller  in  York.  In  1825  he  was  admitted  to 
the  British  Conference,  and  appointed  missionary  to  Cey- 
lon, in  which  Held  he  labored  with  great  zeal  for  twen- 
ty-three years.  In  1862  lie  w.as  appointed  superintend- 
ent of  the  South  Ceylon  .Mission.  To  the  ordinary  la- 
bors of  a missionary  Mr.  Hardy  added  an  amount  of  lit- 
erary activity  sufficient  to  have  occupied  the  whole  life 
of  an  ordinary  man.  It  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  he 
and  his  colleague  Gogcrly  (q.  v.)  have  thrown  more 
light  upon  the  Buddhism  of  Ceylon,  and  upon  Pali  lit- 
erature, than  all  other  English  writers.  Ills  culture, 
in  the  course  of  his  studies,  became  very  wide;  be  read 
Latin,  Greek,  Hebrew,  French,  Portuguese,  and  Sin- 
ghalese; and  his  acquaintance  with  the  Pali  and  Sans- 
crit was  not  only  large,  but  accurate.  Towards  the  end 
of  bis  life  be  returned  to  England,  and  served  as  minis- 
ter on  several  important  circuits.  He  died  at  Heading- 
ley,  Yorkshire,  April  16, 18G8.  At  the  time  of  his  mor- 
tal seizure  lie  was  engaged  upon  a work  entitled  Chris- 
tianity and  Buddhism  compared.  Ilis  most  important 
publications  arc  Eastern  Monachism , an  Account  of  the 
Origin , Laws,  Discipline , Sacred  Writings,  etc.  of  the  Or- 
der of  Mendicants  founded  by  Gotama  Buddha  (London, 
1850,  Hvo) : — A Manual  of  Buddhism  in  its  Modern  De- 
velopment, translated  from  Singhalese  MSS.  (Lond.  1853, 
8vo) The  Legends  aiul  Theories  of  the  Buddhists  com- 
pared with  History  and  Science  (1867,  cr.  8vo). — Wesley- 
an Minutes,  1868,  p,  25. 

Hardy,  Samuel,  an  English  divine,  was  bom  in 
1720,  and  educated  at  Emanuel  College,  Cambridge, 
where  be  became  fellow,  lie  was  for  many  years  rec- 
tor «if  Blakenham,  Suffolk,  and  died  in  1793.  lie  pub- 
lished Mature  and  Ends  of  the  Eucharist  (London,  1784, 
8vo) : -Principal  Prophecies  of  the  O.  and  X Test,  com- 
pared and  explained  (London,  1770,  Hvo)  :—Xovum  Test. 
Grweum  cum  scholiis  thro/ogicis,  etc.  (3d  ed.  Lond.  1820 
2 vols.  Hvo),  the  annotations  in  which  are  cliielly  taken 
froml ole’s  Synopsis.- — Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliographica, 

Hare  (rnnx,  arm' be th ; according  to  Boehart 
[Hieroz.  i,  991 1,  from  PTS,  to  crop,  and  -'2,  fruit ; 
Arab,  nr  neb  and  Syr.  arnebo,  a hare ; Sept.  x^oypvX- 
\wg  and  caainrovg,  Vulg.  hpus  and  charoe/ryllus,  both 
versions  interchanging  it  with  “coney”)  occurs  in  Lev. 
si,  6,  and  Deut.  xiv,  7,  and  in  both  instances  it  is.  pro- 
hibited Irom  being  used  as  food  because  it  chews  the 
end,  although  it  has  not  the  hoof  divided.  But  the 
hare  belongs  to  an  order  of  mammals  totally  distinct 
from  the  ruminant ia,  which  are  all,  without  exception, 
hisnlea,  the  camel’s  hoof  alone  offering  a partial  modifi- 
cation ( Ehrenberg,  Mammalia,  pt.  ii).  The  stomach  of 
rodents  is  single,  and  the  motion  of  the  mouth,  except- 
ing when  they  masticate  some  small  portion  of  food  re- 


2 

served  in  the  hollow  of  the  cheek,  is  more  that  of  the 
lips,  when  in  a state  of  repose  the  animals  are  engaged 
in  working  the  incisor  teeth  upon  each  other.  This 
practice  is  a necessary  condition  of  existence,  for  the 
friction  keeps  them  fit  for  the  purpose  of  nibbling,  and 
prevents  their  growing  beyond  a proper  length.  As 
hares  do  not  subsist  on  hard  substances,  like  most  of  the 
genera  of  the  order,  but  on  tender  shoots  and  grasses, 
they  have  more  cause,  and  therefore  a more  constant 
craving,  to  abrade  their  teeth;  and  this  they  do  in  a 
manner  which,  combined  with  the  slight  trituration  of 
the  occasional  contents  of  the  cheeks,  even  modem  writ- 
ers, not  zoologists,  have  mistaken  for  real  rumination. 


Hare  of  Mount  Sinai. 


Physiological  investigation  having  fully  determined 
these  questions,  it  follows  that,  both  with  regard  to  the 
sliaphan  (“coney”)  and  the  hare,  we  should  under- 
stand the  original  in  the  above  passages,  rendered 
“chewing  the  cud,”  as  merely  implying  a second  mas- 
tication, more  or  less  complete,  and  not  necessarily  that 
faculty  of  true  ruminants  which  derives  its  name  from 
a power  to  draw  up  aliment  after  deglutition,  when 
worked  into  a ball,  from  the  first  stomach  into  the 
mouth,  and  there  to  submit  it  to  a second  grinding  pro- 
cess. The  act  of  “ chewing  the  cud”  and  “ re-cliewing” 
being  considered  identical  by  the  Hebrews,  the  sacred 
lawgiver,  not  being  occupied  with  the  doctrines  of  sci- 
ence, no  doubt  used  the  expression  in  the  sense  in  which 
it  was  then  understood  (compare  Michaelis,  A nmerk.  ad 
loc.).  It  may  be  added  that  a similar  opinion,  and  con- 


llare  of  Mount  Lebanon. 


sequent  rejection  of  the  hare  as  food,  pervaded  many 
nations  of  antiquity,  who  derived  their  origin,  or  their 
doctrines,  from  a Shemitic  source;  and  that,  among 
others,  it  existed  among  the  British  Celtae,  probably 
even  before  they  had  any  intercourse  with  Phoenician 
merchants.  Thus  the  Turks  and  Armenians  abstain 
from  its  flesh  (Tavernier,  Travels,  Yu,  154),  also  the  Ara- 
bians (Russell’s  Aleppo,  ii,  20),  aud  even  the  Greeks  and. 


IIARE 


73 


HARE 


Romans  avoided  it  (Hermann,  ad  Lucian,  conscrib.  hist.  p. 
135;  P.  Castellan,  lie  camis  esu,  iii,  5,  in  Gronov.  Thesaur. 
ix)  on  sanitary  grounds  (Aristotle,  Hist.  Anim.  iv,  5; 
Pliny,  II.  X.  xxviii,  79) ; but  the  Bedawin,  who  have  a 
peculiar  mode  of  dressing  it,  are  fond  of  its  flesh. 

There  are  two  distinct  species  of  hare  in  Syria : one, 
Lepus  Syriacus,  or  Syrian  hare,  nearly  equal  in  size  to 
the  common  European,  having  the  fur  ochr}’  buff;  and 
Lqnts  Sinaiiicus,  or  hare  of  the  desert,  smaller  and 
brownish.  The}’  reside  in  the  localities  indicated  by 
their  trivial  names,  and  are  distinguished  from  the  com- 
mon lrare  by  a greater  length  of  ears,  and  a black  tail 
with  white  fringe.  There  is  found  in  Egypt,  and  high- 
er up  the  Nile,  a third  species,  represented  in  the  out- 
line paintings  on  ancient  monuments,  but  not  colored 
with  that  delicacy  of  tint  required  for  distinguishing  it 
from  the  others,  excepting  that  it  appears  to  be  marked 
with  the  black  speckles  which  characterize  the  existing 
species. — Kitto.  The  ancient  Egyptians  coursed  it  with 
greyhounds  as  we  do,  and  sometimes  captured  it  alive 
and  kept  it  in  cages.  “ Hares  arc  so  plentiful  in  the 


Ancient  Egyptian  carrying  Hares.  From  the  Monuments, 
environs  of  Aleppo,”  says  Dr.  Russell  (ii,  15S),  “that  it 
was  no  imeommon  thing  to  see  the  gentlemen  who  went 
out  a sporting  twice  a week  return  with  four  or  live 
brace  hung  in  triumph  at  the  girths  of  the  servants’ 
horses.”  Hares  are  hunted  in  Syria  with  greyhound 
and  falcon. 

Hare,  Augustus  William  (brother  of  Julius 
Charles,  see  below),  was  bom  in  1794,  graduated  at  Ox- 
ford, became  fellow  of  New  College,  and  in  1829  rector 
of  Alton  Barnes,  'Wiltshire.  In  conjunction  with  his 
brother,  he  wrote  Guesses  at  Truth  (3d  cd.  Lond.  1847,  2 
vols.  I8mo).  He  also  published  Sermons  to  a Country 
Congregation  (London,  4th  cd.  1839,  7th  ed.  1851;  New 
York,  1839,  8vo),  which  are  models  of  clear  and  practi- 
cal discourse  from  the  pulpit.  He  died  in  1834  at  Rome. 

Hare,  Edward,  an  English  Methodist  minister, 
was  born  at  Hull  Sept.  19,  1774,  and  received  his  early 
education  under  Milner,  author  of  the  Church  History. 
Having  a turn  for  the  sea,  he  became  a sailor,  and  in 
1793,  while  a ship-bov,  was  converted,  and  began  to  hold 
religious  services  among  the  sailors.  During  the  French 
war  he  was  twice  taken  prisoner ; and  after  his  second 
liberation,  in  1796,  he  abandoned  the  sea.  He  was 
admitted  into  the  itinerant  ministry  of  the  Wesleyan 
Church  in  1798,  and  for  twenty  years  was  an  acceptable 
and  faithful  minister  of  the  Gospel.  Ilis  last  station 
was  Leeds.  He  died  of  consumption  at  Exeter  in  the 
spring  of  1818.  Hare  was  a clear  and  forcible  writer, 
and  produced  several  valuable  apologetical  and  contro- 
versial works  on  Methodist  doctrine.  Perhaps  the  most 
important  of  these  arc  A Treutise  on  the  Scriptural  Doc- 
trine of  Justification  (2d  cd.,  with  Preface  by  T.  Jack- 
eon,  Loudon,  1839,  I2mo;  also  reprinted  in  New  York, 
12mo).  See  also  Sermons  published  from  his  Manu- 
scripts. with  a . Memoir  of  Hare  by  Joseph  Benson  (Lon- 
don, 1821). — Wesleyan  Minutes , 1818 ; Life  of  Dr.  Jabez 
Bunting , ch.  viv. 


Hare,  Francis,  bishop  of  Chichester,  was  Ixirn  at 
London  about  1665.  He  studied  at  Eton  and  at  King's 
College,  Cambridge ; and,  having  been  employed  as  tu- 
tor to  lord  Blamlford,  son  of  the  duke  of  Marlborough, 
the  latter  caused  him  to  be  appointed  general  chaplain 
of  the  army.  In  consequence  of  services  rendered  to 
the  Whig  party,  he  was  successively  made  dean  of 
Worcester  in  1708,  of  St.  Paul’s  in  1726,  bishop  of  St. 
Asaph  in  1731,  and  transferred  in  the  same  year  to  the 
see  of  Chichester,  lie  died  in  1740.  lie  wrote  a work 
on  The  Difficulties  and  Discouragements  attending  the 
Study  of  the  Scriptures  in  the  Way  of  private  Judgment, 
which  was  condemned  for  its  tendency  to  scepticism. 
He  is  chiefly  famous  for  his  Book  of  Psalms , in  the  He- 
brew, put  into  the  original  poetical  Metre  (Psalmorum 
Liber  in  Versieulos  metrice  Divisus,  Lond.  1736,8vo),an 
attempt,  now  deemed  hopeless,  to  reduce  Hebrew  poetry 
to  metre,  in  which  he  was  defended  by  Dr.  Edwards, 
and  assailed  by  Dr.  Lowtli.  Ilis  HorLs  were  published 
in  4 vols.8vo  (Lond.  1746),  containing,  besides  the  writ- 
ings above  named,  a number  of  Setmions.  See  Chal- 
mers, General  Biog.  Diet. ; Allibone,  Dictionary  of  A u- 
thors,  i,  785. 

Hare,  Julius  Charles,  one  of  the  brightest  orna- 
ments of  the  Church  of  England  in  the  present  century, 
was  born  Sept.  13, 1795,  at  Hurstmonccux,  Sussex,  his 
father  being  lord  of  the  manor.  After  a brilliant  prep- 
aration at  the  Charter  House,  he  went  to  Cambridge  in 
1812,  where  he  graduated  B.A.  1816,  M.A.  1819,  and  be- 
came fellow  of  Trinity.  He  was  instituted  to  the  rec- 
tory of  I Iurstmonceux  (the  advowson  of  which  was  in 
his  own  family)  in  1832;  was  collated  to  a prebend  at 
Chichester  in  1851 ; was  appointed  archdeacon  of  Lewes 
by  bishop  Otter  in  1840 ; and  nominated  one  of  her  maj- 
cstv’s  chaplains  in  1853.  lie  died  at  the  rectorv,  Jan. 
23,*  1 855. 

In  1827  he  published  the  first  edition  of  Guesses  at 
Truth,  but  his  name  was  first  distinguished  in  the  liter- 
ary world  as  one  of  the  translators  of  Niebuhr's  History 
of  Rome,  in  conjunction  with  Mr.  Connop  Tliirlwall,  the 
present  bishop  of  St.  David’s.  Their  version  was  made 
from  the  second  German  edition,  which  materially  dif- 
fered from  the  first,  and  it  was  first  published  in  the 
year  1828.  It  extends  to  the  first  and  second  volumes 
only  of  the  standard  English  edition;  the  third  and 
fourth  were  translated  by  Dr.  William  Smith  and  Dr. 
Leonard  Schmitz.  In  1829  Mr.  Hare  published,  at  Cam- 
bridge, A Vindication  of  Niebuhr's  Hist  on/  of  Rome  from 
the  Charges  of  the  Quarterly  Review.  Archdeacon  Hare’s 
published  works  extend  over  a period  of  nearly  thirty 
years.  The  most  important  of  them  are,  The  Children 
of  Light:  a Sermon  for  Advent  (Cambridge,  1828,8vo) : 
— Sermons  preached  before  the  University  of  Cambridge 
(Feb.  1839) : — The  Victory  of  Faith,  and  other  Setmons 
(Cambridge,  1840,  8vo) : — The  Better  Prospects  of  the 
Church : a Charge  (1840)  : — Sermons  preached  at  Ilnrst- 
monceux  Church  (1841,  8vo;  2d  vok  1849): — The  Unity 
of  the  Church : a Sermon  preached  before  the  Chichester 
Diocesan  Association  (1845,  8vo) : — The  Mission  of  the 
Comforter,  and  other  Sermons,  with  Notes  (1846,  2 vols. 
8vo;  Amer.  edit.  Boston,  1854, 12mo)  : — The  Means  of 
Unity : a,  Charge,  with  Notes,  especially  on  the  Institution 
of  the  Anglican  Bishopric  at  Jerusalem  (1847.  8vo) : — 
A Letter  on  the  Agitation  excited  by  the  Appointment  of 
Dr.  Hampden  to  the  See  of  Hereford  (1848, 8vo) : — Life 
and  Writings  of  John  Sterling  (1848.  2 vols.  12mo)  : — 
Guesses  at  Truth,  by  two  Brothers  (3d  edit.  1848,  2 vols. 
18mo) : — The  Contest  with  Rome,  especially  in  reply  io 
Dr.  Newman  (Lond.  1852, 8vo)  : — T 'indication  of  Luther 
(Loud.  1854,  8vo).  This  last  is  a book  of  vigorous  con- 
troversy,  and  refutes,  both  on  critical  and  moral  grounds, 
the  charges  brought  against  the  memory  of  Luther  by 
Hallam,  Newman,  Ward,  and  Sir  William  Hamilton. 
These  writers  are  handled  by  Hare  with  great,  but  not 
unjust  severity.  There  are  two  admirable  articles  on 
Hare,  giving  a candid  and  judicious  criticism  of  his  ca- 
reer as  philosopher,  controversialist,  and  theologian,  in 


IIAREL 


74 


IIARLAY-CHANVALLON 


the  Methodist  Quarterly  lienor,  April  and  July,  1856; 
reproduced  by  the  author,  Rev.  J.  H.  Kigg.  in  his  Mod- 
ern Anylican  Theology  (London,  1858,  12mo).  See  also 
Gentleman's  Magazine,  April,  1855 ; Quarterly  Review 
(London),  July,  1*55 ; Blackwood's  Magazine , xliii,  287 ; 
Aniline,  Dictionary  of  Authors,  i,  785. 

Harel  (llob.  with  the  art.  ha-lIareV , -X“”n,  the 
mount  of  God;  Sept,  to  npnjA,  A ulg.  .-1  riel,  Engl.  A ers. 
‘•the  altar,”  marg.  “llarel”),  a figurative  name  for  the 
altar  of  burnt-offering  (Ezek.  xliii,  15,  first  clause),  called 
(in  the  last  clause  and  in  ver.  16)  Ariel  (EngL Version 
also  “altar”).  “Junius  explains  it  of  the  iaxdpa  or 
hearth  of  the  altar  of  burnt-offering,  covered  by  the  net- 
work on  which  the  sacrifices  were  placed  over  the  burn- 
ing wood.  This  explanation  Gesenius  adopts,  and  brings 
forward  as  a parallel  the  Arab,  ireh,  1 a hearth  or  fire- 
place,’ akin  to  the  Ileb.  "I?X,  ur,  ‘ light,  flame.’  Fiirst 
{llamhc.  s.  v.)  derives  it  from  an  unused  root  X“fl,  hard, 
‘to  glow,  bum,’  with  the  termination  -el;  but  the  only 
authority  for  the  root  is  its  presumed  existence  in  the 
word  llarel.  Ewald  {Die  Propheten  des  A.B.  ii,  373)  , 
identities  llarel  and  Ariel,  and  refers  them  both  to  a root 
n~X,  Cirah,  akin  to  “i*X,  ur"  (Smith,  s.  v.). 


Ha 'rim  (Heb.  Charim',  tJ'lH,  for  t^H,  i.  q.  Witt, 
fat-nosed ; Sept.  ’Hpdp,  but  with  many  v.  rr.  especial- 
ly Xap>)p  in  1 Chron.  xxiv,  8,  ’ll  pip  in  Ezra  ii,  39, 
A pap  in  Nell,  x,  5,  and  ’Apt  in  Neh.  xii,  15),  the  name 
of  several  men,  mostly  about  the  time  of  the  Captivity. 

1.  The  head  of  the  second  “course'’  of  priests  as  ar- 
ranged by  David  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  8).  B.C.  1014. 

2.  Apparently  an  Israelite,  whose  descendants,  to  the 
number  of  320  males,  or  1017  in  all,  returned  from  Bab- 
ylon with  Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  32,  39;  Neh.  vii,  35,  42. 
But  as  among  these  some  are  enumerated  (Ezra  x,  21) 
as  priests  in  the  corresponding  lists  of  those  who  re- 
nounced their  Gentile  wives,  and  others  (Ezra  x,  31)  as 
ordinary  Israelites,  it  may  be  doubted  whether  Ilarim 
was  not  rather  a place  whose  inhabitants  are  here  spo- 
ken of,  like  others  in  the  same  list.  Accordingly, 
Schwarz  identifies  it  with  a village  Charim,  situated, 
according  to  him,  on  a bay  of  the  sea  eight  Eng.  miles 
north-east  of  Jaffa  {Palest,  p.  142).  He  probably  means 
eZ-T/lf/mw-Ali-Ibn-Aleim  (Robinson,  Researches,  iii,  46), 
but  his  explanation  of  the  compound  name  is  not  at  all 
satisfactory.  A better  supposition,  perhaps,  is  that  Ha- 
rim  in  these  latter  passages  stands  patronymically  as  a 
representation  of  the  family,  q.  d.  Bene-JIarim.  See 


Harem.  See  House  ; Polygamy. 

Haren,  Jean  de,  a Belgian  theologian,  was  born  at 
A’alenci on nes  about  1540.  AVhile  yet  a youth  he  went 
to  Geneva,  where  he  was  well  received  by  Calvin.  He 
was  present  at  the  death-bed  of  the  reformer  (1564),  and 
was  for  eighteen  years  a Protestant  minister  in  several 
cities.  lie  finally  joined  the  Roman  Catholic  Church 
at  Antwerp,  March  3, 1586,  and  preached  at  A'enloo,  Co- 
logne, Aix-la-Chapcllc,  Nancy,  etc.  lie  returned  to  Cal- 
vinism in  1610,  and  died  about  1620.  He  wrote  Brief 
Diseours  des  causes  justes  et  equitables  qui  out  meues  M. 
Jean  Haren,  jatlis  ministre,  de  quitter  lit  religion  preten- 
dne.  reformer,  pour  se  ranger  au  giron  de  VEglise  catho - 
lique,  etc.  (Anver*,  1587, 1 2mo)  ‘.—thirteen  Catecheses  cen- 
tre Calvin  et  les  ealrinistes  (Nancy,  1599,  12mo) : Pro- 

fession catholiqne  de  Jean  Haren  (Nancy,  1599,  12mo) : 
— Kpitre  et  Demande  ehrestienne  de  Jean  llaren  a Am- 
brose Wide,  ministre  des  est rangers  icalons  retirez  eu  la 
ville  d\  1 ij'-la-Chapelle  (Nancy’  1599, 12mo).  fSee  Cal- 
nu-t.  Bill,  de  Lorraine,  p.  479;  lloefer,  Xonv.  Iiiog.  Gen- 
erate, xxiii,380. 

Ha'reph  (Heb.  Chureph',  T"n,  plucking  off;  Sept. 
Aof‘(  v.  r.  ’ Apip ),  the  “ father”  V Bcth-Gader,  and 
“son”  of  Caleb  of  Judah  by  one  of  his  legitimate  wives 
(I  Chron.  ii,  51).  B.C.  cir.  1612.  The  patronymic 
“ Uariiphito”  (q.v.)  seems  to  connect  this  with  IIaripii. 

Hareseth.  See  Kut-1 1 aresetii. 

Haresh.  See  Ivir-IIahesii. 

Haresha.  See  Tel-IIaresiia. 

Ha'reth  (Ileb.  Che' refh,  r^n?  tlie  form  TTI,  Chii'- 
reth,  is  on  account  of  the  pause-accent ; prob.  ijq*  -jlh 
a (hick, ; Sept.  Xanifi  v.  r.  [>]  thUh  [apparently 
reading  “’IT;  so  Josephus, .Inf.  vi,  12, 4],Arulg. Uaret), 
a wood  (“■;*)  in  the  mountains  of  Judah,  where  David 

hid  himself  fn.rn  Saul,  at  the  instance  of  the  prophet 
Gad  (I  Sam.  x vi,  5);  probably  situated  amontr  the 


hills  west  of  Soclio. 


probably  situated  among  the 
See  Forest. 


Harhai'ah  (Heb.  Charhuyah',  mrrn,  zeal  of  Je- 
horah;  Sept.  \\paXiac),  the  father  Jf'Uzziel  “of  the 
golds.mtlis,  which  latter  repaired  part  of  the  walls  of 
Jerusalem  after  the  Captivity  (Neh.  iii,  8).  B.C.  ante  I 

Har'has  (2  Kings  xxii,  14).  See  IIasraii. 

Har'hur  (Ileb.  Charchnr “>H '“n.ferer,  as  in  Dent.  I 
xxviu,  22;  Sept.  ’.A poop),  one  of' the  Nethinim  whose 
posterity  returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Ezra 
ii,  >1  : Neh.  vii.  53).  B.C.  536. 


Harid.  See  IIadid, 


Elam. 

3.  The  father  of  Malcliijali,  which  latter  repaired 
part  of  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  (Neh.  iii,  11).  B.C.  ante 
446.  Perhaps  identical  with  No.  2. 

4.  One  of  the  priests  that  returned  from  Babylon 
with  Zerubbabel  (Neh.  xii,  3,  where  the  name  is  given 
as  Reuum;  but  compare  ver.  15,  where  liis  son  Adna  is 
named).  B.C.  536.  Perhaps  the  same  as  No.  3. 

5.  One  of  those  named  first  among  the  signers  of  the 
sacred  covenant  of  Nehemiali  (Nell,  x,  5).  B.C.  cir. 
4 1 0.  Perhaps  i.  q.  No.  3. 

6.  Another,  a chief  of  the  people,  in  the  same  list 
(ver.  27).  B.C.  cir.  410.  Perhaps  to  be  explained  like 
No.  2. 

Har'iph  (Heb.  Chariph',  autumnal  rain; 

Sept.  ’Apiip,  ’Apiip),  the  name  apparently  of  two  men. 

1.  An  Israelite  whose  descendants  (or  possibly  a place 
whose  inhabitants),  to  the  number  of  112,  returned  from 
Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Neh.  vii,  24).  In  Ezra  ii, 
18,  the  name  is  written  in  the  synonymous  form  Joraii. 
B.C.  ante  536.  Perhaps  identical  with  the  Harepii  of 
1 Chron.  ii,  51.  See  Harupiiite. 

2.  One  of  the  chief  of  the  people  who  subscribed  the 
covenant  of  fidelity  to  Jehovah  with  Nehemiali  (Neh. 
x,  19).  B.C.  cir.  410.  Perhaps  the  name  is  here  only 
a patronymic  contraction  for  Ben-Uariph.  See  IIarim. 

Harlay-Chanvallon,  Francis  i>e,  archbishop 
of  Rouen  and  afterwards  of  Paris,  was  bom  in  the  latter 
city  Aug.  14,  1625.  He  studied  at  the  College  of  Na- 
varre, and  was  immediately  appointed  abbot  of  Jumieges 
by  his  uncle,  the  archbishop  of  Rouen,  whom  he  suc- 
ceeded in  office,  Dee.  28,  1651.  The  looseness  of  his 
morals  ill  fitted  him  for  such  a position  ; yet,  connecting 
himself  with  cardinal  Mazarin,  he  managed  to  indulge 
his  evil  propensities  without  losing  his  credit.  He  rep- 
resented the  clergy  at  the  coronation  of  Louis  XIAr  in 
1654,  and  is  said  to  have  officiated  at  the  marriage  of 
this  king  with  madame  de  Maintenon.  His  name,  his 
fortune,  and  the  flatteries  he  showered  upon  the  king 
caused  him  to  he  made  archbishop  of  Paris  Jan.  3, 1671, 
and  he  received  numerous  other  marks  of  the  royal  fa- 
vor. He  died  at  Conflans,  where  he  possessed  a fine  es- 
tate, Aug.  6,  1695.  A ready  eloquence  was  joined  in 
him  to  great  ambition,  the  utmost  want  of  principles, 
and  great  intolerance.  At  Dieppe,  where  he  was  mas- 
ter as  temporal  lord,  lie  obliged  the  Protestants  to  come 
to  the  cathedral  and  listen  to  the  sermons  he  delivered 
as  spiritual  lord.  He  was  one  of  the  prime  movers  of 
the  revocation  of  the  edict  of  Nantes.  Although  a 
member  of  the  French  Academy,  and  very  fond  of  mak- 
ing speeches,  none  of  his  discourses  were  published.  He 
published,  however,  the  Synodicon  Parisiense,  an  ac- 


HARLOT 


75 


HARLOT 


count  of  all  the  synods  held  by  his  predecessors.  See 
Legendre,  Vie  de  llarlay  (Par.  1720,  4to) ; Sevigne,  Let- 
tres  (1818),  x,  121,  128);  Bausset,  Hist,  de  Fenelon  (2d 
ed.),  i,  51,  55;  lloefer,  jYouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  403. 

Harlot,  whore,  etc.,  are  terms  used  somewhat  pro- 
miscuously in  the  Auth.  Vers,  for  several  lleb.  words  of 
widely  different  import. 

1.  Properly  nSM  ( zonah participle  from  Hit,  to  play 
the  harlot , Sept.  7rdpn/;,Vulg.  meretrix,  both  these  latter 
terms  referring  to  prostitution  for  mercenary  motives), 
which  occurs  frequently,  and  is  often  rendered  in  onr 
version  by  the  first  of  the  above  English  words,  as  in 
Gen,  xxxiv,  31,  etc.,  and  sometimes,  without  apparent 
reason  for  the  change,  by  the  second,  as  in  Prov.  xxiii, 
27, and  elsewhere.  In  Gen.  xxxviii,  15,  the  word  is  <13 IT, 
“ harlot,”  which,  however,  becomes  changed  to  ri-Hp, 
“ harlot,”  in  vers.  21, 22,  which  means,  literally,  a conse- 
crated woman,  a female  (perhaps  priestess)  devoted  to 
prostitution  in  honor  of  some  heathen  idol.  The  distinc- 
tion shows  that  Judah  supposed  Tamar  to  be  a heathen: 
the  facts,  therefore,  do  not  prove  that  prostitution  was 
then  practised  between  Hebrews. 

That  this  condition  of  persons  existed  in  the  earliest 
states  of  society  is  clear  from  Gen.  xxxviii,  15.  From 
that  account  it  woidd  appear  that  the  “veil”  was  at  that 
time  peculiar  to  harlots.  Judah  thought  Tamar  to  be 
such  “ because  she  had  covered  her  face.”  Mr.  Bucking- 
ham remarks,  in  reference  to  this  passage,  that  “ the 
Turcoman  women  go  unveiled  to  this  day”  ( Travels  in 
Mesopotamia,  i,  77).  It  is  contended  by  Jahn  and  oth- 
ers that  in  ancient  times  all  females  wore  the  veil  (Bibl. 
Archceol.  p.  127).  Possibly  some  peculiarity  in  the  size 
of  the  veil,  or  the  mode  of  wearing  it,  may  have  been 
(Prov.  vii,  10)  the  distinctive  dress  of  the  harlot  at  that 
period  (see  New  Translation,  by  the  Rev.  A.  De  Sola, 
etc.,  p.  116,  248-9).  The  priests  and  the  high-priest 
were  forbidden  to  take  a wife  that  was  (had  been,  Lev. 
xxi,  14)  a harlot.  Josephus  extends  the  law  to  all  the 
Hebrews,  and  seems  to  ground  it  on  the  prohibition 
against  oblations  arising  from  prostitution,  Dent,  xxiii,  18 
( A nt.  iv,  8, 23).  The  celebrated  case  of  Rahab  has  been 
much  debated.  She  is,  indeed,  called  by  the  word  usu- 
ally signifying  harlot  (Josh,  ii,  1 ; vi,  17 ; Sept,  -rropvt] ; 
Vulg.  meretrix ; and  in  Heb.  xi,  31 ; James  ii,  25) ; but 
it  has  been  attempted  to  show  that  the  word  may  mean 
an  innkeeper.  See  Raiiab.  If,  however,  there  were 
such  persons,  considering  what  we  know  of  Canaanitish 
morals  (Lev.  xviii,  27),  we  may  conclude  that  they 
would,  if  women,  have  been  of  this  class.  The  next  in- 
stance introduces  the  epithet  of  “strange  woman.”  It 
is  the  case  of  Jephthah’s  mother  (Judg.  xi,  2),  who  is 
also  called  a harlot  (wnpr?] ; meretrix ) ; but  the  epithet 
r“}nx  !T£“8$  (achereth),  “ strange  woman,”  merely  de- 
notes foreign  extraction.  Josephus  says  og  mai  r>)v 
pTjripa,  “a  stranger  by  the  mother’s  side.”  The  mas- 
terly description  in  Prov.  vii,  6,  etc.  may  possibly  be  that 
of  an  abandoned  married  woman  (ver.  19,20),  or  of  the 
solicitations  of  a courtesan,  “ fair  speech,”  under  such  a 
pretension.  The  mixture  of  religious  observances  (ver. 
14)  seems  illustrated  by  the  fact  that  “the  gods  are  ac- 
tually worshipped  in  manyOriental  brothels,  and  frag- 
ments of  the  offerings  distributed  among  the  frequent- 
ers” (Dr.  A.  Clarke’s  Comment,  ad  loc.).  The  represen- 
tation given  by  Solomon  is  no  doubt  founded  upon  facts, 
and  therefore  shows  that  in  his  time  prostitutes  plied 
their  trade  in  the  “streets”  (Prov.  vii,  12;  ix,  14,  etc.; 
Jer.  iii,  2;  Ezek.  xvi,24,  25,31).  As  regards  the  fash- 
ions involved  in  the  practice,  similar  outward  marks 
seem  to  have  attended  its  earliest  forms  to  those  which 
we  trace  in  the  classical  writers,  e.  g.  a distinctive  dress 
and  a seat  by  the  way-side  (Gen.  xxxviii,  14  ; compare 
Ezek.  xvi,  16,  25;  Bar.  vi,  43;  retron.  Arb.  Sat.  xvi; 
Juv.  vi,  118  foil.;  Dougtaei  Analect.  Sacr.  Exe.  xxiv). 
Public  singing  in  the  streets  occurs  also  (Isa.  xxiii,  16; 
Ecclus.  ix,  4).  Those  who  thus  published  their  infamy 


were  of  the  worst  repute;  others  had  houses  of  resort, 
and  both  classes  seem  to  have  been  known  among  the 
Jews  (Prov.  vii,  8-12;  xxiii,  28;  Ecclus.  ix,  7,  8);  the 
two  women,  1 Kings  iii,  16, lived  as  Greek  hetwrie  some- 
times did,  in  a house  together  (Smith,  Bid.  Gr.  and  Ro- 
man Ant.  s.  v.  Iletivra).  The  baneful  fascination  as- 
cribed to  them  in  Prov.  vii,  21-23,  may  be  compared 
with  what  Chardin  says  of  similar  effects  among  the 
young  nobility  of  Persia  ( Voyages  en  Perse,  i,  163,  ed. 
1711),  as  also  may  Luke  xv,  30,  for  the  sums  lavished  on 
them  ( ib . 162).  In  earlier  times  the  price  of  a kid  is 
mentioned  (Gen.  xxxviii),  and  great  wealth  donbtless 
sometimes  accrued  to  them  (Ezek.  xvi, 33, 39;  xxiii, 26). 
But  lust,  as  distinct  from  gain,  appears  as  the  induce- 
ment in  Prov.  vii,  14, 15  (see  Dougtaei  Anal.  Sacr.  ad 
loc.),  where  the  victim  is  further  allured  by  a promised 
sacrificial  banquet  (comp.  Ter.  Enn.  iii, 3).  The  “har- 
lots” are  classed  with  “publicans,”  as  those  who  lay  un- 
der the  ban  of  society  in  the  N.  T.  (Matt,  xxi,  32).  No 
doubt  they  multiplied  with  the  increase  of  polygamy, 
and  consequently  lowered  the  estimate  of  marriage. 
The  corrupt  practices  imported  by  Gentile  converts  into 
the  Church  occasion  most  of  the  other  passages  in  which 
allusions  to  the  subject  there  occur,  1 Cor.  v,  1,  9, 11 ; 2 
Cor.  xii,  21 ; 1 Thess.  iv,  3;  1 Tim.  i,  10.  The  decree, 
Acts  xv,  29,  has  occasioned  doubts  as  to  the  meaning  of 
7ropi'£ ia  there,  chiefly  from  its  context,  which  may  be 
seen  discussed  at  length  in  Deyling’s  Obsei~i\  Sacr.  ii, 
470,  sq. ; Schottgen,  Jlor.  llebr.  i,  468 ; Spencer  and 
Hammond,  ad  loc.  The  simplest  sense,  however,  seems 
the  most  probable.  The  children  of  such  persons  were 
held  in  contempt,  and  could  not  exercise  privileges  nor 
inherit  (John  viii,  41 ; Dent,  xxiii,  2 ; Judg.  xi,  1,2). 
The  term  “bastard”  is  not, however,  applied  to  any  ille- 
gitimate offspring  born  out  of  wedlock,  but  is  restricted 
bv  the  Rabbins  to  the  issue  of  any  connection  within 
the  degrees  prohibited  by  the  law.  A mamzer , accord- 
ing to  the  Mishna  (Yebamoth, iv,  13), is  one,  says  R.Aki- 
ba,  who  is  born  of  relations  between  whom  marriage  is 
forbidden.  Simeon  the  Temanite  says  it  is  every  one 
whose  parents  are  lial  le  to  the  punishment  of  “ cutting 
off”  by  the  hands  of  Heaven;  R.  Joshua,  every  one 
whose  parents  are  liable  to  death  by  the  house  of  judg- 
ment, as,  for  instance,  the  offspring  of  adultery.  On  the 
general  subject,  Michaelis’s  Laws  of  Moses,  bk.  v,  art. 
268;  Selden,  Be  Ux.  Ihbr.  i,  16;  iii.  12;  and  Be  Jur. 
Xutur.  v,  4,  together  with  Scliiittgen,  and  the  authori- 
ties there  quoted,  may  be  consulted. 

The  words  A.V.  “and  they  washed 

his  armor”  (1  Kings  xxii, 38),  should  be,  “and  the  har- 
lots washed,”  which  is  not  only  the  natural  rendering, 
but  in  accordance  with  the  Sept.  and  Josephus. 

Since  the  Hebrews  regarded  Jehovah  as  the  husband 
of  his  people,  by  virtue  of  the  covenant  he  had  made 
with  them  (Jer.  iii,  1),  therefore  to  commit  fornication 
is  a very  common  metaphor  in  the  Scriptures  to  de- 
note defection  on  their  part  from  that  covenant,  and 
especially  by  the  practice  of  idolatry.  See  Fornica- 
tion. Hence  the  degeneracy  of  Jerusalem  is  illustra- 
ted by  the  symbol  of  a harlot  (Isa.  i,  21),  and  even  that 
of  heathen  cities,  as  of  Nineveh  (Nah.  iii,  4).  Under 
this  figure  the  prophet  Ezekiel  delivers  the  tremen- 
dous invectives  contained  in  chaps,  xvi,  xxiii.  In  the 
prophecy  of  Hosea  the  illustration  is  carried  to  a start- 
ling extent.  The  prophet  seems  commanded  by  the 
Lord  to  take  “a  wife  of  whoredoms  and  children  of 
whoredoms”  (i,  2),  and  “to  love  an  adulteress”  (iii,  1). 
1 It  has,  indeed,  been  much  disputed  whether  these  trans- 
actions were  real, or  passed  in  vision  only;  but  the  idea 
itself,  and  the  diversified  applications  of  it  throughout 
the  prophecy,  render  it  one  of  the  most  effective  por- 
tions of  Scripture.  See  Hosea. 

2.  rrrip  (kedeshah',  from  to  consecrate,  occurs 

| Gen.  xxxviii,  15,  21,  22;  Dent,  xxiii,  17 ; IIos.  iv,  14). 

It  has  already  been  observed  that  the  proper  meaning 
| of  the  word  is  consecrated  prostitute.  The  very  early 


HARLOT 


HARMONY 


allusion  to  such  persons,  in  the  first  of  these  passages, 
agrees  with  the  accounts  of  them  in  ancient  heathen 
writers.  Herodotus  refers  to  the  ‘‘abominable  custom 
of  the  Babylonians,  who  compelled  every  native  female 
to  attend  the  temple  of  Venus  once  in  her  life,  and  to 
prostitute  herself  in  honor  of  the  goddess”  (i,199;  Ba- 
ruch, vi,  43).  .Strabo  calls  prostitutes,  who,  it  is  well 
known,  were  at  Athens  dedicated  to  Venus,  Up6covXoi 
yvvah'ic,  ‘‘consecrated  servants,”  “votaries”  {Geog. viii, 
378 ; (I  rot  ins,  Annotat.  on  Baruch ; Bcloe’s  Herodotus , 
Notes,  i,  272,  Lond.  1806).  The  transaction  related  in 
Numb,  xv,  1-15  (compare  Psa.  cvi,28)  seems  connected 
with  idolatry.  The  prohibition  in  Dent,  xxiii,  17, “there 
shall  be  no  nrip,  ‘ whore,’  of  the  daughters  of  Israel,” 
is  intended  to  exclude  such  devotees  from  the  worship 
of  Jehovah  (see  other  allusions,  Job  xxxvi,  14 ; 1 Kings 
xiv,  24;  xv,  12).  The  law  forbids  (Lev.  xix,  29)  the 
father’s  compelling  his.  daughter  to  sin,  but  does  not 
mention  it  as  a voluntary  mode  of  life  on  her  part  with- 
out his  complicity.  1 1 could,  indeed,  hardly  be  so.  The 
provision  of  Lev.  xxi,9,  regarding  the  priest’s  daughter, 
may  have  arisen  from  the  fact  of  his  home  being  less 
guarded,  owing  to  his  absence  when  ministering,  as  well 
as  from  the  scandal  to  sanctity  so  involved.  Perhaps 
such  abominations  might,  if  not  thus  severely  marked, 
lead  the  way  to  the  excesses  of  Gentile  ritualistic  forni- 
cation, to  which,  indeed,  when  so  near  the  sanctuary, 
they  might  be  viewed  as  approximating  (Michaelis, 
Lairs  of  Hoses,  art.  268).  Yet  it  seems  to  be  assumed 
that  the  harlot  class  would  exist,  and  the  prohibition  of 
Dent,  xxiii,  18,  forbidding  offerings  from  the  wages  of 
such  sin,  is  perhaps  due  to  the  contagion  of  heathen  ex- 
ample, in  whose  worship  practices  abounded  which  the 
Israelites  were  taught  to  abhor.  The  term  there  espe- 
cially refers  to  the  impure  worship  of  the  Syrian  Astarte 
(Numb,  xxv,  1;  comp.  Herod,  i,  199;  Justin,  xviii,  5; 
Strabo,  viii,  378;  xii,  559;  Val.  Max.  ii,  6,  15;  August. 
Be  Civ.  Bei,  iv,  4),  whose  votaries,  as  idolatry  progress- 
ed, would  be  recruited  from  the  daughters  of  Israel; 
hence  the  common  mention  of  both  these  sins  in  the 
Prophets,  the  one,  indeed,  being  a metaphor  of  the  oth- 
er (l»a.  i,  21 ; lvii,  8 ; Jer.  ii,  20;  comp.  Exod.  xxxiv,  15, 
16;  Jer.  iii,  1,  2,  6;  Ezek.  xvi, xxiii;  Ilos.  i,  2;  ii,  4,  5; 
iv,  11,1 3, 14, 15 ; v,  3).  The  latter  class  would  grow  up 
with  the  growth  of  great  cities  and  of  foreign  inter- 
course, and  hardly  could  enter  into  the  view  of  the  Mo- 
saic institutes. 

3.  [nolcriyah ' , from  “r2,toiV/?jore),“the  strange 

woman”  (1  Kings  xi,  1;  Prov.v,20;  vi,24;  vii,5;  xxiii, 
27 ; Sept.  dWoTpia  ; Ynlg.  aliena,  extranea).  It  seems 
probable  that  some  of  the  Hebrews  in  later  times  inter- 
preted the  prohibition  against  fornication  (Deut.  xxii, 
II)  as  limited  to  females  of  their  own  nation,  and  that 
the  “strange  women”  in  question  were  Canaanites  and 
other  Gentiles  (Josh,  xxiii,  13).  In  the  case  of  Solo- 
mon they  are  specified  as  Moabites,  Ammonites,  Edom- 
ites, Zidonians,  and  Ilittites.  The  passages  referred  to 
discover  the  character  of  these  females.  To  the  same 
class  belongs  »"i~7  (zarah',  from  “^T,  to  turn  in  as  a visit- 
or), “the.  strange,  woman”  (Prov.  v,  3,  20;  xxii,  14; 
xxiii.  33;  yoi't]  ttoovi],  nWorpin  ; meretrix,  aliena,  ex- 
tranea):  it  is  sometimes  found  in  full,  PHT  ppvx  (Prov. 
ii.  Hi;  vii,  5).  To  the  same  class  of  females*  likewise 
belongs^  rrx  (kesilutld, follg),  “til c foolish 

woman,’  i.  e.  by  a common  association  of  ideas  in  the 
Shemitic  dialects, sinful  (Psa.  xiv,  1).  The  description 
in  Prov.  ix,  1 1,  etc.  illustrates  the  character  of  the  fe- 
male so  designated.  To  this  may  be  added  3,“1  rrx 
(w,  wrong),  “the  evil  woman”  (Prov.  v,  21). 

In  the  New  Testament  7 ropio/  occurs  in  Matt,  xxi  31 
32:  Luke  xv,3t»;  1 Cor.  vi,  15, 16 ; Ileb.  xi.31;  James 
n,  2o.  In  none  of  these  passages  does  it  necessarily  im- 
ply prostitution  for  gain.  The  likeliest  is  Luke  xv,  30. 
It  is  used  symbolically  for  a city  in  Ifev.  xvii,  1,  5, 15 
16;  xix,  2, where  the  term  and  all  the  attendant  imagery 


6 

are  derived  from  the  Old  Testament.  It  may  be  ob- 
served in  regard  to  Tyre,  which  (Isa.  xxiii,  15. 17)  is  rep- 
resented as  “committing  fornication  with  all  the  king- 
doms of  the  world  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,”  that  these 
words,  as  indeed  seems  likely  from  those  which  follow, 
may  relate  to  the  various  arts  which  she  had  employed 
to  induce  merchants  to  trade  with  her  (Patrick,  ad  loe.). 
So  the  Sept,  understood  it,  iarai  ipwopiov  irdoaiQ  rale; 
fiamXtiaig  ri}Q  olKOvptvt]Q  iiri  irpoffiowov  t7)Q  yi]Q. 
Schleusner  observes  that  the  same  words  in  Rev.  xviii, 
3 may  also  relate  to  commercial  dealings.  (Fesselii  Ad- 
rersar.  Sacr.  ii,  27,  1,  2 [Witteb.  1650] ; Frisch,  Be  mu- 
lie  re  peregrina  ap.  Hehr.  [Lips.  1744]). — Kitto,  s.  v. ; 
Smith,  s.  v.  Compare  Prostitute. 

Harmer,  Thomas,  a learned  dissenting  divine  of 
England,  was  horn  in  Norwich  in  1715,  and  became 
minister  of  a dissenting  congregation  at  Wattesfield, 
Suffolk.  He  was  much  esteemed  in  the  literary  world 
for  his  attainments  in  Oriental  literature  and  for  his 
skill  in  antiquities.  Availing  himself  of  some  MSS.  of 
the  celebrated  Sir  John  Chardin,  who  had  travelled  into 
Persia  and  other  Eastern  coimtries,  llarmer  seized  the 
idea  of  applying  the  information  thus  obtained  to  the 
illustration  of  many  portions  of  the  prophetical  writings, 
and  of  the  evangelists  also.  The  first  volume  of  the 
Observations  on  various  Passages  of  Scripture  appeared 
in  1764;  in  1776  the  work  again  made  its  appearance  in 
two  volumes  octavo,  and  in  1787  were  published  two 
additional  volumes;  a fourth  edition,  in  four  volumes, 
was  called  for  in  a short  time  afterwards,  and  a fifth 
edition  was  edited  by  Adam  Clarke  (Lond.  1816,  4 vols. 
8vo),  with  considerable  additions  and  corrections,  to 
which  is  prefixed  a life  of  the  author.  Mr.  llarmer  also 
published  Outlines  of  a new  Commentarg  on  Solomon's 
Song  (Lond.  1768,  8vo) ; and  a posthumous  volume  has 
appeared,  entitled  The  Miscellaneous  IPorLs  of  the  Rev. 
Thomas  Harmer,  with  an  introductory  memoir  by  Wil- 
liam Youngman  (Lond.  1828, 8vo).  Mr.  Harmer  died  in 
1788. — Jones,  Christian  Biography ; Darling,  Cyclopaedia 
Bibliogruphica,  i,  400. 

Harmonists  or  Harmonites.  See  Harpists. 

Harmony,  as  a technical  name  of  a Biblical  work, 
is  applied  to  books  the  object  of  which  is  to  arrange  the 
Scriptures  in  chronological  order,  so  that  the  mutual 
agreement  of  the  several  parts  may  be  rendered  appar- 
ent, and  the  true  succession  of  events  clearly  under- 
stood. With  this  view  various  scholars  have  compiled 
harmonies  of  the  Old  Testament,  of  the  New,  and  of 
particular  portions  of  both.  Harmonies  of  the  Old  Tes- 
tament exhibit  the  books  disposed  in  chronological  or- 
der, as  is  done  by  Lightfoot  in  his  Chronicle  of  the  Times , 
and  the  Order  of  the  Texts  of  the  Old  Testament,  and  by 
Townsend  in  his  Old  Testament  arranged  in  historical 
and  chronological  Order.  Harmonies  of  the  New  Tes- 
tament present  the  gospels  and  epistles  distributed  in 
like  order,  the  latter  being  interspersed  among  the  Acts 
of  the  Apostles.  In  this  way  Townsend  has  proceeded 
in  his  valuable  work  entitled  The  New  Testament  ar- 
ranged in  chronological  and  historical  Order.  Books, 
however,  of  this  kind  are  so  few  in  number  that  the 
term  harmony  is  almost  appropriated  by  usage  to  the 
gospels.  It  is  this  part  of  the  New  Testament  which 
has  chiefly  occupied  the  attention  of  those  inquirers 
whose  object  is  to  arrange  the  Scriptures  in  their  true 
order.  The  memoirs  of  our  Lord  written  by  the  four 
evangelists  have  chiefly  occupied  the  thoughts  of  those 
who  wish  to  show  that  they  all  agree,  and  mutually  au- 
thenticate one  another.  Accordingly,  such  compositions 
are  exceedingly  numerous.  The  four  gospels  narrate 
the  principal  events  connected  with  our  Lord’s  abode  on 
earth,  from  his  birth  to  his  ascension.  There  must  there- 
fore he  a genera]  resemblance  between  them,  though 
that  of  John  contains  little  in  common  with  the  others, 
being  apparently  supplementary  to  them.  Yet  there 
are  considerable  diversities,  both  in  the  order  in  which 
facts  arc  narrated,  and  in  the  facts  themselves.  Hence 


HARMONY 


HARMONY 


the  difficulty  of  weaving  the  accounts  of  the  four  into  a 
continuous  and  chronological  history.  Those  portions 
of  the  gospels  that  relate  to  the  resurrection  of  the  Sav- 
iour have  always  presented  the  greatest  obstacles  to  the 
compilers  of  harmonies,  and  it  must  be  candidly  admit- 
ted that  the  accounts  of  this  remarkable  event  are  not 
easily  reconciled.  Yet  the  labors  of  West  and  Town- 
son,  especially  the  latter,  have  served  to  remove  the 
apparent  contradictions.  In  addition  to  them  may  be 
mentioned  Crantield  and  Hales,  who  have  endeavored 
to  improve  upon  the  attempts  of  their  predecessors. 
See  Gospels. 

In  connection  with  harmonies  the  term  diatessaron 
frequently  occurs.  It  denotes  a continued  narrative  se- 
lected out  of  the  four  gospels,  in  which  all  repetitions 
of  the  same  or  similar  words  are  avoided.  It  is  thus 
the  result  of  a harmony,  since  the  latter,  properly  speak- 
ing, exhibits  the  entire  texts  of  the  four  evangelists  ar- 
ranged in  corresponding  columns.  In  popular  language 
the  two  are  often  used  synonymously.  See  Diatessa- 
p.ox. 

The  following  questions  relative  to  harmonies  de- 
mand attention ; and  in  treating  them,  we  avail  our- 
selves chiefly  of  the  art.  on  the  subject  in  Kitto’s  Cyclo- 
pcedia , s.  v. 

1.  Have  all  or  any  of  the  evangelists  observed  chro- 
nological arrangement  in  their  narratives?  It  was  the 
opinion  of  Osiamler  and  his  followers  that  all  the  evan- 
gelists record  the  facts  of  the  Saviour’s  history  in  their 
true  order.  When,  therefore,  the  same  transactions  are 
placed  in  a different  order  by  the  writers,  they  were 
supposed  to  have  happened  more  than  once.  It  was  as- 
sumed that  they  took  place  as  often  as  they  were  dif- 
ferently arranged.  This  principle  is  too  improbable  to 
require  refutation.  Instead  of  endeavoring  to  solve  dif- 
ficulties, it  boldly  meets  them  with  a clumsy  expedient. 
Improbable,  however,  as  the  hypothesis  is,  it  has  been 
adopted  by  Macknight.  It  is  our  decided  conviction 
that  all  the  evangelists  have  not  adhered  to  chronolog- 
ical arrangement. 

The  question  then  arises,  have  all  neglected  the  order 
of  time  ? Newcome  and  many  others  espouse  this  view. 
“ Chronological  order,”  says  this  writer,  “ is  not  precise- 
ly observed  by  any  of  the  evangelists;  John  and  Mark 
observe  it  most,  and  Matthew  neglects  it  most.”  Bish- 
op Marsh  supposes  that  Matthew  probably  adhered  to 
the  order  of  time,  because  he  was  for  the  most  part  an 
eye-witness  of  the  facts.  The  others,  he  thinks,  neg- 
lected the  succession  of  events.  The  reason  assigned 
by  the  learned  prelate  in  favor  of  Matthew’s  order  is  of 
no  weight  as  long  as  the  inspiration  of  Mark,  Luke,  and 
John  is  maintained.  If  they  were  infallibly  directed  in 
their  compositions,  they  were  in  a condition  equally  fa- 
vorable to  chronological  narration. 

A close  inspection  of  Matthew’s  Gospel  will  show  that 
he  did  not  intend  to  mark  the  true  succession  of  events. 
He  gives  us  no  definite  expressions  to  assist  in  arrang- 
ing his  materials  in  their  proper  order.  Very  frequent- 
ly he  passes  from  one  occurrence  to  another  without  any 
note  of  time;  sometimes  he  employs  a rdrf , sometimes  tv 
tchq  ijpkpaiq  tKtivatg,  tv  tKttvty  Tty  Katptg,  or  tv  tKtivy 
rj  top  a.  Rarely  is  he  so  minute  as  to  use  ptO'  gpipag  t£ 
(xvii,  1).  In  short,  time  and  place  seem  to  have  been 
subordinated  to  the  grand  object  which  he  had  in  view, 
viz.  the  lively  exhibition  of  Jesus  in  his  person,  works, 
and  discourses.  In  pursuing  this  design,  he  has  often 
brought  together  similar  facts  and  addresses.  Although, 
therefore,  Kaiser  founds  upon  the  phrases  we  have  ad- 
duced a conclusion  the  very  reverse  of  ours,  yet  we 
believe  that  Matthew  did  not  propose  to  follow  chrono- 
logical order.  The  contrary  is  obviously  implied. 

Mark,  again,  is  still  more  indefinite  than  Matthew. 
Even  the  general  expressions  found  in  the  first  gospel 
are  wanting  in  his.  The  facts  themselves,  not  their 
true  succession,  were  the  object  of  his  attention.  Chro- 
nological order  is  not  observed  in  his  gospel,  except  in 
so  far  as  that  gospel  agrees  with  Luke’s.  Yet  Cart- 


wright, in  his  Tlarmony,  published  about  1 030,  makes 
the  arrangement  of  Mark  his  rule  for  method. 

With  regard  to  Luke,  it  is  probable  that  he  intended 
to  arrange  everything  in  its  true  place,  because  at  the 
beginning  of  his  work  he  employs  the  term  Ka9t%i}g. 
This  word  is  often  referred  to  succession  of  emits,  with- 
out involving  time ; but  it  seems  clearly  to  imply  chro- 
nological succession  (compare  Acts  xi,  4).  Although, 
therefore,  Grotius  and  many  others  oppose  the  latter 
view,  we  cannot  but  coincide  with  Beza  when  he  says : 
“In  harmonia  Evangelistarnm  scribenda,  rectiorem  or- 
dinem  servari  putem  si  in  iis  quae  habent  communia, 
reliqui  ad  Lucam  potins  accommodentnr,  quam  Lucas 
ad  ca*teros”  (comp,  also  Olshausen,  Die  Ecktheit  der  rier 
Canon.  Evang.  etc.,  i,  82-3,  3d  ed.).  We  may  therefore 
conclude  that  this  evangelist  usually  follows  the  chro- 
nological order,  especially  when  such  passages  as  iii,  1 
and  iii,  23  are  considered,  where  exact  notices  of  time 
occur.  But  as  the  gospel  advances,  those  expressions 
which  relate  to  time  are  as  indeterminate  as  Matthew’s 
and  Mark’s.  Frequently  does  he  pass  from  one  transac- 
tion to  another  without  any  note  of  time;  and  again, he 
has  ptra  ravra , iv  fag.  twv  r)ptpwv.  In  consequence 
of  this  vagueness,  it  is  very  difficult,  if  not  impossible, 
to  make  out  a complete  harmony  of  the  gospels  accord- 
ing to  the  order  of  Luke,  because  we  have  no  precise 
data  to  guide,  us  in  inserting  the  particulars  related  by 
Matthew  and  Mark  in  their  proper  places  in  the  third 
gospel.  All  that  can  be  determined  with  any  degree  of 
probability  is  that  Luke’s  order  seems  to  have  been 
adopted  as  the  true,  chronological  one.  Whether  the 
writer  has  deviated  from  it  in  any  case  may  admit  of 
doubt.  We  are  inclined  to  believe  that  in  all  minute 
particulars  chronological  arrangement  is  not  observed. 
The  general  body  of  facts  and  events  seems  to  partake 
of  this  character,  not  every  special  circumstance  noticed 
by  the  evangelist.  But  we  are  reminded  that  the  as- 
sigmnent  of  dates  is  distinct  from  chronological  arrange- 
ment. A writer  may  narrate  all  his  facts  in  the  order 
in  which  they  occurred,  without  specifying  the  particu- 
lar time  at  which  they  happened ; or,  on  the  other  hand, 
he  may  mark  the  dates  without  arranging  his  narrative 
in  chronological  order.  But  attention  to  one  of  these 
will  naturally  give  rise  to  a certain  opinion  with  regard 
to  the  other.  The  more  indeterminate  the  notification 
of  time,  the  less  probable  is  it  that  time  was  an  element 
kept  before  the  mind  of  the  writer.  If  there  be  a few 
dates  assigned  with  exactness.it  is  a presumption  that 
the  true  arrangement  is  observed  in  other  parts  where 
no  dates  occur.  In  the  succession  of  events  Luke  and 
Mark  generally  agree. 

With  regard  to  John’s  Gospel,  it  has  little  in  common 
with  the  rest  except  the  last  two  chapters.  It  is  obvi- 
ous, however,  that  his  arrangement  is  chronological. 
He  carefully  marks,  in  general,  whether  one,  two,  or 
three  days  happened  between  certain  events.  II  is  gos- 
pel is  therefore  of  great  use  in  compiling  a synopsis. 

It  thus  appears  that  no  one  gospel  taken  singly  is 
sufficient  to  form  a guide  for  the  Gospel  harmonist ; nor 
is  he  justified  in  selecting  any  one  evangelist  as  a gen- 
eral guide,  modifying  that  single  narrative  only  as  ab- 
solutely demanded  by  the  statements  of  the  other  three. 
He  must  place  them  all  together,  and  select  from  among 
them  as  the  exigencies  in  each  particular  case  may  re- 
quire. Of  course  he  will  take  definite  notes  of  time  as  a 
peremptory  direction  wherever  they  occur,  and  in  the 
absence  of  these  he  will  naturally  follow  the  order  of 
the  majority  of  the  Gospel  narratives.  Nor  in  this 
matter  is  he  at  liberty,  as  Stier  has  too  often  done 
( 1 Vords  of  Jesus,  Am.  ed.,  i,  31),  to  prefer  one  evange- 
list’s authority  to  another,  e.  g.  Matthew  or  John  to 
Mark  or  Luke,  on  the  ground  that  the  former  were 
apostles  and  the  latter  not,  for  they  are  all  equally  in- 
spired. Again,  the  same  liberty  or  discretion  that  is 
called  for  in  arranging  the  order  and.  date  of  the  acts 
and  journeys  of  our  Lord  must  be  exercised  in  adjusting 
his  words  and  teachings;  that  is,  the  simple  juxtaposi- 


IIARJIOXY  *8 

tion  of  passages  is  not  absolute  evidence  of  coincidence 
in  time  and  immediate  connection  in  utterance  without 
some  express  intimation  to  that  effect;  so  that  incohe- 
rence, where  palpable,  or  want  of  unanimity  in  this  par- 
ticular  among  the  Gospel  reports  or  summaries  them- 
selves, requires  the  harmonizer  to  exercise  the  same 
judgment  in  the  adjustment  as  in  other  particulars. 
(See  the  Me/ ft.  Quart.  Revieiv,  Jan.  1854,  p.  79.)  With 
these  points  premised  and  duly  observed,  there  is  no 
greater  difficulty  in  adjusting  the  four  accounts  of  our 
Lord's  life  and  labors  with  a reasonable  degree  of  cer- 
tainty than  there  would  be  in  harmonizing  into  one 
consistent  account  the  separate  and  independent  deposi- 
tions of  as  many  honest  witnesses  in  any  case  of  law. 
The  only  real  questions  of  serious  dispute  in  fact,  aside 
from  the  main  one  presently  to  be  mentioned,  are  those 
of  a purely  chronological  character  affecting  the  general 
date  of  Christ's  ministry  as  a whole , and  the  particular 
spot  where  certain  incidents  or  discourses  transpired; 
the  relative  order  and  position  of  nearly  everything  is 
but  little  disturbed  by  the  various  theories  or  views  as 
to  even  these  points.  Hence  is  evident  the  rashness  of 
those  who  assert,  like  Stier  (Pref.  to  Matt,  and  Mark,  in 
Words  of  Jesus'),  that  the  construction  of  a Harmony  of 
the  Gospels  is  impracticable ; for  in  the  very  same  work 
lie  forthwith  proceeds  to  construct  and  publish  one  him- 
self! 

2.  What  was  the  duration  of  our  Lord’s  ministry? 
This  is  a question  upon  which  the  opinions  of  the  learn- 
ed have  been  much  divided,  and  which  cannot  be  settled 
with  conclusive  certainty.  In  order  to  resolve  it,  it  is 
necessary  to  mark  the  different  Passovers  which  Christ 
attended.  Looking  to  the  gospels  by  Matthew,  Mark, 
and  Luke,  we  should  infer  that  he  was  present  at  no 
more  than  two:  the  lirst  at  the  time  of  his  baptism,  the 
second  immediately  before  his  crucifixion.  But  in  John’s 
gospel  three  Passovers  at  least  are  named  during  the  pe- 
riod of  our  Lord’s  ministry  (ii,  13;  vi,  4 ; xi,55).  It  is 
true  that  some  writers  have  endeavored  to  adapt  the 
gospel  of  John  to  the  other  three  by  reducing  the  Pass- 
overs mentioned  in  the  former  to  two.  So  Priestley, 
Yosmus,  and  Mann.  In  order  to  accomplish  this,  it  was 
conjectured  that  wd(T\a,  in  ch.vi,4,is  an  interpolation, 
and  then  that  i opn)  denotes  some  other  Jewish  festival. 
Bishop  Pearce  went  so  far  as  to  conjecture  that  the  en- 
tire verse  has  been  interpolated.  For  these  rash  specu- 
lations there  is  no  authority.  The  received  reading 
must  here  be  followed  (Lhcke’s  Continental'  iiber  Johan- 
nes, 3d  ed.  ii,  104).  In  addition  to  these  passages,  it  has 
been  thought  by  many  that  another  Passover  is  referred 
to  in  v,  1,  where,  although  wdoya  does  not  occur,  t)  iop- 
ti)  is  supposed  to  denote  the  same  least.  But  this  is  a 
subject  of  dispute.  Iremcus  is  the  oldest  authority  for 
explaining  it  of  the  Passover.  Cyril  and  Chrysostom, 
however,  referred  it  to  the  beast  of  Pentecost,  an  opin- 
ion approved  of  by  Erasmus,  Calvin,  and  Beza;  but  Lu- 
ther, Chemnitz,  Calovius,  Sealiger,  Grotius,  and  Light- 
foot  returned  to  tho  ancient  view  of  Irenauis.  Iveppler 
seems  to  have  been  the  lirst  who  conjectured  that  it 
meant  the  Feast  of  Pa  rim  immediately  preceding  the 
second  Passover,  lie  was  followed  by  lVtau,  Lamy. 

1)  Out  rein,  etc.  Coeeeius,  followed  by  Kaiser,  referred 
it  to  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles ; while  Keppler  and  Pe- 
tau  intimated  that  it  may  possibly  have  been  the  Feast 
of  Dedication,  llengel  defended  the  opinion  of  Chry- 
sostom; while  Hug,  with  much  plausibility,  endeavors 
to  show  that  it  alludes  to  the  feast  of  Purim  immedi- 
ately belorc  the  Passover.  'Flic  latter  view  is  adopted 
bv  Tholuck,  Olsliauscn,  and  Clausen,  though  Greswell 
maintains  that  the  Passover  is  meant.  It  would  occu- 
py too  much  space  to  adduce  the  various  'considerations 
that  have  been  urged  for  and  against  the  two  leading 
opinions,  viz.  t he  Passover  and  the  Feast  of  Purim.  The 
true  meaning  of  iapri ) (for  Lachmnun  has  rightly  omit- 
ted the  article  from  before  it;  see  Tischendorf,  A or. 
Test.  <th  ed.  ad  loo.)  is  still  indeterminate  (see  especial- 
ly Alford,  (Jr.  Test,  ad  loc.).  To  us  it  appears  most  prob- 


HARMORY 


able  that  the  most  ancient  hypothesis  is  correct,  al« 
though  the  circumstances  urged  against  it  are  neither 
few  nor  feeble.  The  following  arguments,  however,  seem 
to  determine  the  question  in  favor  of  the  Passover:  ]. 
Had  any  less  noted  festival  been  meant,  it  would,  as  in 
other  eases  (see  chap,  vii,  2 ; x,  22),  have  been  specified; 
but  in  the  present  case  not  even  the  article  was  required 
to  distinguish  it;  whereas  John  in  one  instance  only 
(vi,  4)  uses  waVyo  to  qualify  a following  iopri),  when 
the  latter  is  thus  defined  by  ru>v  ’lovdatutv.  2.  The  en- 
suing Sabbath  (CionpbnpujTOQ  of  Luke  vi,  1)  can  only 
be  that  which  was  second  after  the  offering  of  the  wave- 
sheaf,  and  first  after  the  Passover-week,  and,  however 
interpreted,  shows  that  a Passover  had  just  preceded, 
for  the  harvest  was  just  ripe.  See  Passover. 

Sir  Isaac  Newton  and  Macknight  suppose  that  five 
Passovers  intervened  between  our  Lord’s  baptism  and 
crucifixion.  This  assumption  rests  on  no  foundation. 
Perhaps  the  term  iopri)  in  John  vii,  2 may  have  given 
rise  to  it,  although  iopri)  is  explained  in  that  passage 
by  OKr}vorrt)yia. 

During  the  first  three  centuries  it  was  commonly  be- 
lieved that  Christ’s  ministry  lasted  but  one  year,  or  one 
year  and  a few  months  (Routh,  Reliq.  Sacr.  iv,  218). 
Such  was  the  opinion  of  Clemens  Alexandrinus  (Stro- 
mata, i,  21;  vi,  11)  and  Origen  (de  Principiis,  iv,  5). 
Eusebius  thought  that  it  continued  for  above  three 
years,  which  hypothesis  became  general.  The  ancient 
hypothesis,  which  confined  the  time  to  one  year,  was  re- 
vived by  Mann  and  Priestley;  but  Neweome,  with  more 
judgment,  defended  the  common  view,  and  refuted 
Priestley’s  arguments.  The  one-year  view  has  found 
few'  late  advocates  except  Jarvis  ( Introd . to  History  of 
Church)  and  Browne  (Or do  S(vclonm).  It  has  been 
well  remarked  by  bishop  Marsh  that  the  Gospel  of  John 
presents  almost  insuperable  obstacles  to  the  opinion  of 
those  who  confine  Christ’s  ministry  to  one  year.  If 
John  mentions  but  three  Passovers,  its  duration  must 
have  exceeded  two  years;  but  if  he  mentions  four,  it 
, must  have  been  longer  than  three  years.  In  interweav- 
ing the  gospels  of  Matthew,  Mark,  and  Luke  with  that 
of  John,  the  intervals  between  the  Passovers  are  filled 
up  by  various  transactions.  Were  the  number  of  these 
feasts  determinate  and  precise,  there  would  be  a general 
agreement  in  the  filling  up  of  the  times  between  them; 
but  in  consequence  of  the  uncertainty  attaching  to  the 
subject,  Harmonies  are  found  materially  to  differ  in  their 
modes  of  arrangement.  One  thing  is  evident,  that  the 
moderns,  in  their  endeavors  after  a chronological  dispo- 
sition of  the  gospels,  adopt  a far  more  rational  course 
than  the  ancients.  The  latter  strangely  supposed  that 
the  first  six  chapters  of  John’s  Gospel  relate  to  a period 
of  Christ’s  ministry  prior  to  that  with  which  the  other 
three  evangelists  begin  their  accounts  of  the  miraeles. 
Thus  John  alone  was  supposed  to  narrate  the  events  be- 
longing to  the  earlier  part  of  his  ministry,  while  Mat- 
thew, Mark,  and  Luke  related  the  transactions  of  the  last 
year. 

j The  most  ancient  llannony  ol  the  Gospels  of  which 
we  "nave  any  aecount  was  composed  by  Tatian  of  Syria 
in  tho  2d  century,  but  it  is  now  lost  (see  H.A.  Daniel’s 
Tatianns  der  Apoluyet.  Halle,  1837,  8vo).  In  the  3d 
century,  Ammonius  was  the  author  of  a Harmony  sup- 
posed to  be  still  extant.  Eusebius  of  Csesarea  also  com- 
posed a Harmony  of  the  Gospels  about  A.D.  315.  In  it 
he  divided  the  Gospel  history  into  ten  canons  or  tables, 
according  as  different  facts  are  related  by  one  or  more 
of  the  evangelists.  These  ancient  Harmonics,  however, 
differ  in  character  from  such  as  belong  to  modern  times. 
They  are  summaries  of  the  life  of  Christ,  or  indexes  to 
the  four  gospels,  rather  than  a chronological  arrange- 
ment of  different  facts,  accompanied  by  a reconciliation 
of  apparent  contradictions.  (See  Scrivener,  Introd.  to 
A.  T.  p.  50.)  In  modern  times,  Andreas  Osiander  pub- 
lislied  his  llannony  of  the  Gospels  in  1537.  He  adopted 
I the  principle  that  the  evangelists  constantly  wrote  in 
l chronological  order.  Cornelius  Jansenius’s  Concordia 


HARMONY 


79 


HARMONY 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE  OF  DIFFERENT  HARMONIES. 

Note.— This  Table  comprises  only  a few  of  those  adjustments  of  the  Gospels  (whether  tabular  or  in  full),  which 
have  become  best  known  iu  America.  The  figures  refer  to  the  sections  as  they  are  numbered  in  Strong’s  liar- 
niong,  and  their  order  in  each  column  shows  the  relative  position  assigned  by  the  several  authors  to  the  correspond- 
ing events.  An  asterisk  [*]  points  ont  a marked  difference  from  the  arrangement  of  that  work  in  the  particulars 
many  event  or  passage ; an  obelisk  [t]  indicates  a clear  repetition  of  some  of  the  prominent  incidents  in  another 
place:  a double  dagger  [t]  is  prefixed  to  those  sections  iu  the  arrangement  of  which  the  majority  of  harmouizers 
'.oincide ; and  parallels  [II]  are  set  to  those  concerning  the  position  of  which  there  is  little  or  no  dispute. 


Probable 

Order. 

EVENT. 

(IN  its  principal  features.) 

Lijrhtfoot,  1655. 

( Chronicle .) 

2^ 

i! 

| 1 
Is 

if 

ir 

Is 

G reswell,  1830. 

( Harmonia .) 

11 

|1 

3% 

7t 

S E 
•-•3 

|i 
% w 

H 

1*1 

* 1 

’ 1 

"i 

”1 

"1 

"l 

2 

1 

*1 

2 

1 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

i*3 

*3 

*3 

”3 

"3 

3 

**3 

'*3 

’*3 

**9 

3 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

49 

7 

**7 

To 

ti 

6 

*6 

*6 

*6 

* 0 

6 

'*6 

*6 

"0 

*7 

49 

7 

”7 

”t 

**7 

**7 

*7 

9 

II  s 

s 

s 

”8 

”s 

" *8 

'*8 

'*8 

”s 

’*8 

9 

9 

9 

9 

II 10 
mi 

11*12 

1113 

II  14 

II 15 

mo 

HIT 

10 

To 

To 

10 

10 

*10 

10 

*io 

io 

11 

ii 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

1*2 

13 

12 

1*2 

*12 

12 

9 

12 

12 

*i2 

*12 

13 

13 

13 

13 

13 

13 

13 

13 

14 

15 

14 

14 

14 

14 

14 

14 

14 

14 

15 

15 

15 

15 

15 

15 

15 

15 

16 

17 

'is 

19 

20 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

17 

1*8 

19 

20 

17 

IS 

19 

20 

17 

17 

17 

17 

17 

17 

Vs 

18 

2 

18 

Vs 

9 

18 

'is 

1 19 

1120 

19 

19 

19 

19 

19 

19 

20 

20 

20 

20 

20 

20 

11*21 

John’s  testimony 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

26 

*2*1 

*2*1 

22 

21 

*21 

*2*1 

21 

21 

*21 

Christ's  first  disciples 

22 

22 

22 

22 

22 

22 

22 

12? 

II  24 

Water  changed  to  wine 

23 

23 

24 

25 

26 
2* 

23 

23 

23 

23 

23 

23 

Visit  at  Capernaum 

24 

24 

24 

24 

24 

24 

24 

II  25 

Traders  expelled 

25 

26 

27 

28 

25 

25 

25 

25 

25 

25 

II  26 

II  2T 

4 28 

II  29 

Visit  of  Nicndenins 

26 

27 

28 
29 

26 

26 

26 

26 

26 

Further  testimony  nf.Tnhn 

27 

28 
29 

27 

2S 

27 

27 

2S 

27 

27 

John  imprisoned 

28 

28 

Samaritan  woman  

29 

*2*9 

*28 

29 

29 

29 

29 

29 

*2S 

ISO 

1131 

11*32 

Teach  in"  in  Galilee 

30 

31 

*3*2 

33 

30 

30 

31 

30 

30 

30 

*30 

*30 

*30 

Nobleman’s  son 

31 

32 

31 

*3*2 

33 

31 

32 

31 

31 

32 

31 

31 

Rejection  at  Nazareth 

432 

33 

32 

*32 

40 

32 

1133 

Draught  of  fishes 

33 

33 

t33 

33 

33 

33 

36 

445 

437 

34 

35 

11*34 

Demoniac  cured 

34 

35 

4 36 

34 

35 

36 

*3*4 

35 

36 

34 

*34 

34 

*34 

*34 

II  35 

Peter’s  mother-in-law 

35 

35 

35 

35 

35 

4 36 

First  tour  iu  Galilee 

36 

36 

36 

36 

36 

*454 

37 

* 45t 

437 

Leper  cured 

57 

37 

37 

37 

37 

37 

*37 

55 

56 

11*38 

Paralytic  cured 

3S 

39 

*3*8 

39 

38 

38 

3S 

*3*S 

3*8 

*38 

Vs 

II  39 

Call  of  Matthew 

39 

39 

39 

39 

39 

39 

39 

t57 

57 

57 

440 

Impotent  man  cured 

40 

41 

*4*0 

40 

40 

40 

40 

*40 

441 

Ears  of  corn  plucked 

41 

41 

41 

41 

41 

41 

*41 

57 

58 

59 

4*42 

Withered  hand  cured 

42 

42 

42 

42 

42 

*4*2 

*42 

42 

443 

Multitudes  cured 

43 

43 

43 

43 

43 

43 

44 

43 

II  44 

Apostles  chosen 

44 
* 45 
46 

44 

*44 

44 

44 

44 

44 

44 

44 

45 

Sermon  on  the  Mount. 

*45 

*45 

t 45 

*45 

45 

II  46 

Cental  ion's  servant  cured 

*16 

446 

46 

46 

*4*6 

46 

46 

46 

1147 

Widow’s  son  raised 

47 

47 

47 

47 

47 

47 

47 

47 

47 

II  4S 

John’s  message 

48 

48 

48 

4S 

4S 

48 

48 

48 

48 

1149 

Kind  offices  of  a woman 

49 

49 

49 

49 

49 

49 

49 

49 

49 

1150 

Second  tour  of  Galilee 

50 

50 

50 

50 

50 

50 

50 

50 

50 

40 

41 

451 

Diemnniac  cured 

4 51 

51 

42 

4 51 

51 

*5*1 

t51 

51 

*51 

1 51 

52 

1153 

1154 

Discourse  on  providence 

The  sower,  tares,  etc 

Parables  explained 

*52 

53 

54 

53 

51 

*53 

54 

*52 

53 

54 

53 

54 

53 

*54 

53 

54 

*52 

53 

54 

*53 

54 

455 

456 

Crossin"  the  lake 

55 

55 

55 

.55 

55 

55 

55 

55 

Dsemoniacs  cured 

56 

56 

*56 

56 

56 

56 

56 

56 

57 

j Matthew’s  feast 

57 

57 

57 

57 

57 

HARMONY 


HARMONY  80 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE  OP  DIFFERENT  HARMONIES — ( Continued .) 


Probable 

Order. 

EVENT. 

(in  h»  principal  features.) 

ji 

3 

11 

M 

o'" 

o 

|| 

Newcome,  1778. 

(Harmony.) 

Townsend,  1821. 

(Arrangement.) 

G reswell,  1830. 

(TIarmonia.) 

ij 

.“I 

II 

1 ^ 

t'| 

l| 

s; 

P 

r • 

5S 

5S 

58 

5S 

5S 

58 

58 

58 

t rQ 

59 

59 

59 

59 

59 

69 

59 

(MM 

50 

60 

*0*0 

60 

GO 

GO 

60 

60 

GO 

* Cl 

*61 

+ 61+ 

*61 

*61 

*01 

*61 

* G1 

61 

02 

62 

62 

G2 

62 

62 

62 

62 

ii  r* 

63 

63 

63 

63 

63 

63 

63 

63 

63 

i r i 

04 

04 

64 

64 

64 

64 

64 

64 

64 

k 1^ 

65 

05 

65 

65 

G5 

65 

65 

65 

65 

1 1.0 

67 

tOG 

JOT 

1 os 

66 

00 

+ G6 

66 

*6G 

66 

60 

67 

67 

67 

07 

*6*7 

67 

67 

*67 

Syro-Phoeniciaii  woman 

6S 

69 

6S 

69 

08 

69 

6S 

G9 

6S 

G9 

6S 

69 

6S 

09 

CS 

G9 

G8 

69 

70 

1 70 

70 

*70 

70 

70 

+ 70 

71 

+ 70 

71 

72 

73 

70 

71 

71 

71 

71 

71 

71 

71 

72 

72 

72 

72 

72 

72 

72 

72 

73 

73 

73 

73 

73 

73 

73 

73 

74 

74 

74 

74 

74 

74 

74 

74 

74 

if 

75 

75 

75 

75 

75 

75 

76 

75 

76 

77 

75 

76 

76 

76 

70 

7G 

7G 

76 

77 

77 

77 

77 

77 

t77 

77 

+ 77 

79 

T9 

*78 

*78 

*78 

* 78 

*78 

*78 

79 

Departure  from  Galilee 

9*3 

+ 79 

*so 

SO 

SO 

80 

80 

*80 

*8*0 

*80 

81 

82 

*80 

SI 

82 

51 

52 

SI 

81 

SI 

81 

82 

81 

S2 

S2 

82 

87 

S7 

87 

88 

8S " 

8S 

*79 

78 

*78 

S3 

84 

85 

86 
59 

S3 

S3 

S3 

S3 

84 

85 

83 

83 

84 

85 
tSG 

t SJ. 

S4 

85 

tSG 

84 

85 
tS6 

S4 

*8*4 

85 
+ S6 

*84 

}S5 

SO 

tSG 

+ 86 

87 

Blind  man  cured 

87 

8S 

87 

88 

*83 

SS 

Investigation  by  the  Sanhedrim 

88 

S3 

Festival  of  dedication 

89 

so 

90 

t86 

52 

94 

89 

99 

91 

92 

93 

90 

91 

92 

93 

Teaching  at  the  Jordan 

Lazarus  raised 

Resolution  of  the  Sanhedrim 

Teaching  at  Ephraim,  etc 

90 

91 

92 

93 

*52 

94 

*v a 

*Vo 

*52 

14 

* 94 

Infirm  woman  cured 

94 

94 

Q1 

• • 

94 

94 

8Q 

SO 

87 

SS 

90 

95 

Sets  out  for  Jerusalem 

95 

*95 

95 

*95t 

^5 

*78 

95 

.. 

SB 

83 

85 

8G 

9G 

Warning  against  Herod 

96 
93 

97 

90 

• • 

• ■ 

•• 

90 

96 

96 

90 

197 

Discourse  at  a Pharisee’s 

*97 

■ ■ 

07 

+*97 

97 

*97 

‘ * 

97 

97 

97 

*52 

94 

l*9S 

The  tower  built,  war  made,  etc 

98 

98 

* * 

• • 

96 

1 99 

The  prodigal  son.  etc 

OQ 

OQ 

98 

9S 

9S 

99 

98 

1100 

The  faithless  steward 

100 

100 

100 

1 on 

99 

99 

99 

99 

i 00 

lUO 

100 

100 

100 

100 

D’’ 

1 101 

Dives  and  Lazarus 

101 

101 

1*  ■ 

101 

105 

• • 

ioi 

• ■ 

1U1 

101 

101 

101 

*79 

101 

79 

79 

+ 79 

80 

81 

82 

87 

■ ■ 

SS 

91 

*95 

02 

95 

92 

93 

1 102 

Messiah  already  come 

1 02 

102 

96 

1*0*2 

103 

102 

103 

• • 

1 103 

| Unjust  judge,  publican 

j 103 

103 

102 

103 

10^ 

103 

102 

103 

102 

103 

*102 

103 

| 90 

89 
87 
S3 

90 

89 

*90 

HARMONY  81  HARMONY 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE  OF  DIFFERENT  HARMONIES. — {Continued.) 


Probable 

Order. 

EVENT. 

(IN'  ITS  PRINCIPAL  FEATURES.) 

Lifrbtfoot,  1655. 

( Chronicle .) 

?L 

11 

u 

Q 

f! 

1 1 

!§. 

'rd' 

Townsend,  1821. 

1 (Arrangement.) 

go 

-•'! 

II 

1 

4-i 

ii 

fi 

fi 

u 

r 

91 

92 

93 

! ;; 

| Y * 

$ 104 
$ 105 

moo 

104 

104 

104 

105 

106 

104 

104 

• ■ 

• 

105 

105 

106 

91 

92 

93 

j I AR 

104 

IOC 

106 

106 

10G 

inr 

105 

100 

105 

100 

xuo 

nor 

107 

108 

107 

10S 

109 

107 

108 

109 

110 

107 

108 

109 

110 

107 

108 

109 

110 

107 

108 
109 

95 

108 

108 

108 

II  109 

lino 

109 

109 

inn 

If  O 

110 

110 

no 

110 

i in 

ii  n 

SQ 

110 

no 

90 

*91 

92 

91 

91 

92 

9° 

lit 

+ 111 . 
112 
122 
114 
113 

111 

112 

t 111 
112 

93 

111 

1 12 

93 

*111+ 

112 

122 

11 112 

112 

122 

114 

113 

112 

*122 

114 

113 

119 

119 

11A 

112 

114 
113 
122 

115 
11G 
117 

• • 

• • 

H3 

118 

122 

114 

115 

113 
122 

114 

115 

116 
117 
11S 

119 

120 
121 

*123 

124 

+ 113 

113 

113 

llo 

llo 

HU 

II 115 

The  barren  fig-tree  cursed 

115 

116 
117 

115 

116 

117 

118 

119 

120 

115 

116 
117 
11S 
119 

*120t 

121 

114 

•115 

116 

117 

118 

II 116 

11G 

116 

116 

il  117 

The  resurrection  question 

117 

117 

117 

II 113 

The  greatest  commandment 

118 

IIS 

1 is 

II 119 

Messiah’s  paternity 

119 

120 
121 

119 

120 

119 

120 
121 

* 12*3 

119 

119 

11 120 

11 121 

Hierarchy  denounced 

120 

120 

190 

The  widow’s  gift 

121 

121 

123 

124 
111 

125 
120 

121 

* 123 

121 

122 

*123 

124 
*111 

125 

126 
127 

* 12S 

121 

122 

II 123 

Interview  with  the  Greeks 

Destruction  of  Jerusalem,  etc 

* 123 

*123 

*123 

124 

122 

123 

124 

II  124 

Plots  against  Jesus 

*124 

124 

124 

124 

II 125 

Preparation  for  Passover 

125 

125 

125 

125 

126 

12*5 

126 

125 

126 

125 

126 
127 

*128 

129 

II 12G 

Incidents  of  the  meal 

* 120 

12G 

12G 

II 127 
128 

Agony,  etc.,  in  Gethsemane 

Examination  before  Annas 

127 

*12S 

127 

127 

127 

128 

127 

127 

12S 

127 

128 

J 129 

Arraignment  before  the  banhedrim 

129 

* 129 

* 129 

129 

*129 

129 

129 

*129 

133 

133 

133 

133 

130 

131 

132 

1 130 

Accusation  before  Pilate 

130 

130 

130 

130 

130 

130 

130 

130 

131 

B 131 

Taken  before  Herod 

131 

131 

133 

131 

131 

131 

131 

1*3*1 

1!  132 

Sentence  from  Pilate 

132 

132 

132 

132 

132 

132 

132 

132 

133 

Suicide  of  Jtulns 

133 

133 

133 

134 

II 134 

Crucifixion  incidents 

134 

134 

lit 

134 

134 

1*3*4 

134 

134 

135 

II 135 

Burial  of  Jesns 

135 

135 

135 

135 

135 

135 

135 

135  ■ 

133 

11136 

Sepulchre  pnarded 

13G 

13G 

137 

136 

1*30 

136 

13C 

1*3*6 

136 

187 

136 

137 

138 
141 

1137 

Preparation  for  embalming 

137 

137 

137 

137 

138 

137 

13S 

137 

113S 

Release  from  the  tomb 

13S 

138 

138 

13S 

13S 

13S 

1 141 

141 

141 

141 

* 142 

* 142 

142 

142 

142 

142 

142 

142 

141 

141 

139 

Appearance  to  the  women 

* 139 

139 

139 

* 139 

140 

*139 

*139+ 

* 139 

139 

*1*39 

141 

140 

Report  of  the  watch 

140 

140 

140 

140 

140 

140 

142 

140 

140 

$141 

142 

Peter  and  John  at  the  sepulchre 

Appearance  to  IMarv 

141 

II 143 

Appearance  at  Emmaiis 

*143 

143 

143 

143 

143 

143 

143 

143 

143 

II 144 

Seen  by  ten  apostles 

144 

14-1 

144 

145 

144 

144 

144 

144 

144 

144 

II 145 

Seen  by  eleven  apostles 

145 

145 

145 

145 

145 

145 

145 

145 

II 146 

Seen  by  seven  apostles 

140 

140 

146 

147 

148 

146 

146 

146 

146 

140 

146 

$147 

Appenranee.  to  all  the  disciplp.s 

147 

147 

148 

147 

147 

+ 147 

147 

147 

147 

II 14S 

Ascension 

14S 

14S 

148 

14S 

14S  1 

14S 

14S 

11149 

Conclusion 

149 

149 

149 

149 

149 

149 

149  j 

149 

149 

Evangdica  was  published  in  1549.  Martin  Chemnitz’s 
Harmony  was  first  published  in  1593,  and  afterwards, 
with  the  continuations  of  Leyser  and  Gerhard,  in  1G28. 
Chemnitz  stands  at  the  head  of  that  class  of  harmonists 
who  maintain  that  in  one  or  more  of  the  four  gospels 
chronological  order  has  been  neglected,  while  Osiander 
is  at  the  head  of  those  harmonists  who  maintain  that 
all  the  gospels  are  arranged  in  chronological  order.  Oth- 
er harmonies  were,  published  by  Stephens  (1553),  Calvin 
(1553),  Calixt  (1624),  Cartwright  (1627),  Cluster  (1628), 
Lightfoot  (1654),  Cradock  (1668),  Calov  (1680),  Sand- 
hagen  (1684),  Bunting  (1689),  Lamy  (1689),  Le  Clerc 
IV.— F 


(1699),  Toinard  (1707),Whiston  (1702),  Burmann  (1712), 
Bus  (1727-8-30),  Bengel  (1736),  Ilauber  (1737),Biisch  - 
ing  (1766),  Doddridge  (1739  and  40),  Pilkington  (1747), 
Maeknight  (1756),  Bertling  (1767),  Griesbach  (1776,97, 
1809,22),Newcome  (1778),  Priestley  (1777  in  Greek,  and 
1780  in  English),  Micliaelis  (1788,  in  his  Introduction ), 
White  (1799),  Keller  (1802),  Mutschelle  (1806),  Sebas- 
tiani  (1806),  Planck  (1809),  Dc  Wette  and  Liicke  (1818), 
Hess  (1822),  Mat thaei  (1826),  Kaiser  (1828),  Rbdiger, 
(1829),  Clausen  (1829), G reswell  (1830),  Chapman  (1836), 
Carpenter  (1838),  Reichel  (1840),  Geliringer  (1842),  Over- 
beck (1843),  Robinson  (Greek,  1845 ; English,  1846), 


82 


HARMS 


HARMS 


Anger  (1851),Tischcndorf  (1851), Strong  (English,  1852; 
Greek,  1*51),  Stroud  (1853),  Douglas  (1859).  Other  sim- 
ilar works  are  mentioned  in  Fabliaus,  Bibliotheca  Gree- 
ca,  vol.  iv,  ed.  llarlcs;  Walch,  Bibliotheca  Theologian, 
voL  iv ; Miehaelis,  Int rod.  voL  iii,  ed.  Marsh ; Hase,  Le- 
h-n  Jesu,  § 27;  Danz,  WOrterb.  d.  Theol.  Lit.  s.  v. ; Dar- 
ling, t 'yclopad.  Biblioyraph.  col.  1 1 9,  1 3(5,  7G 1 . See  Brit, 
and  Bor.  Rerietr,  Oct.  l*5t> ; Jour.  Sac.  Liter.  1852,  p.  GO 
s<p ; W'iescler,  Citron.  Synopsis  of  Gospels  (tr.  bv  Vena- 
bles, Lend.  18G4, 8vo).  See  J uses  Cumsr. 

Harms,  Claus,  a German  revivalist,  was  bom  at 
Fall  rated  t,  in  Holstein,  May  25, 1778.  He  showed  at  an 
early  age  signs  of  a deep  and  devotional  piety.  He 
made  rapid  progress  at  school,  and  at  eighteen  entered 
the  University  of  Kiel.  Young  and  ardent,  the  skepti- 
cal spirit  of  the  time  coidd  not  but  have  some  effect 
on  him ; its  influence,  however,  was  counteracted  by 
Sehleicrmacher’s  Reden  iib.  d.  Reliyion,  which  brought 
him  back  to  the  simple  faith  of  childhood,  from  whence 
he  never  afterwards  strayed.  In  1*02  he  passed  his  ex- 
amination in  theology,  and  in  180G  was  appointed  dea- 
con in  Lmiden.  The  fame  of  his  talent  as  a preacher, 
add  of  his  devotion  to  pastoral  labor,  soon  spread  abroad. 
His  first  publication  was  Winter-Postifle  (Kiel,  1808), 
which  was  followed  by  Summer  - Pastille  (.Kiel,  1809). 
Two  Catechisms,  published  by  Harms  soon  afterwards, 
ran  through  many  editions.  In  181G  he  was  appointed 
archdeacon  of  St.  Nicholas  at  Kiel.  In  this  position  he 
was  at  first  highly  esteemed,  and  afterwards  bitterly  op- 
posed on  account  of  his  so-called  pietism.  The  opposi- 
tion against  him  culminated  at  the  occasion  of  the  ju- 
bilee of  the  Reformation  held  in  1817.  It  became  daily 
more  apparent  to  him  that  the  Church  in  Germany  was 
steadily  receding  from  the  principles  of  the  Reforma- 
tion and  of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  lie  therefore  gave 
out  that  he  was  prepared  at  any  time  to  sustain,  demon- 
strate, and  defend  Luther’s  95  theses,  with  95  additional 
ones  of  his  own,  against  any  one  who  chose  to  dispute 
with  him.  His  first  point, When  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
says  ‘repent,’  he  means  that  we  shall  conform  to  his  I 
precepts,  not  that  his  precepts  shall  be  conformed  to  us,  I 
as  is  done  in  our  days  to  suit  the  public  mind,”  was 
striking  at  the  very  root  of  the  then  wide-spread  relig- 
ious indifference.  The  discussions  which  ensued  gave 
rise  to  a vast  number  of  publications,  many  of  which 
were  very  titter.  The  effect,  on  the  whole,  was  a deep  | 
awakening  in  the  Church.  The  theological  faculty  of 
Kiel,  which,  with  the  exception  of  the  celebrated  Kleu- 
ker  and  Twcsten,  had  bitterly  opposed  Harms,  was  in 
after  years  almost  exclusively  brought  over  to  iiis  side. 
His  publications  after  this  (showing  his  theological 
views  more  fully)  include  the  following,  viz.,  Prediyten 
(1*20,  1*22,  1*24,  1*27,  1*3*,  1852): — Reliyionshandlnn- 
yen  der  Lntherischen  Kirche  (1*39) Christ  l iche  Glaube 
(1*39-1*34)  x—Vatermser  (1*3*) d.  lieryrede  d.  llerrn 
( I * H ) : — d.  O fenbarnny  Johannis  (1*11) : — Reden  an 
Then loyie-sf it d i reude  (3  vols. : i,  d.  Prediyer  ; ii,  d.  Prlest- 
er;  iii,  d.  Pastor,  Kiel,  1*30-3 1 ).  Many ‘beautiful  hvmns 
by  Harms  may  be  found  in  the  Gesiinye  f.d.yemein- 
srhaftlirhe  ii.f.d.  einsame  Amlocht  (1*2*).  In  1*11,  on 
the  25th  anniversary  of  his  entering  on  his  pastoral  du- 
ties at  Kiel,  a great  jubilee  was  held  there,  and  a fund 
having  been  formed  to  defray  his  travelling  expenses, 
he  was  named  “ Oberconsistorialrath."  ll’is  evesigth 
failed  him  a few  years  after,  but  he  still  continued  writ- 
ing, and  published  a revised  edition  of  his  works  (1851), 
He  died  peacefully  Feb.  1,  1*55.  See  Harms’s  Selbsi-bi- 
of/raphie  (Jena,  1*1*);  Reuter’s  Repcrtorinm  (1*19); 
liaumgarten,  Kin  Denknml  f C.  Harms  (1*55);  Herzog, 
Real-Encyklopndie , v,  5G7. 

Harms,  Louis,  usually  known  as  Pastor  Harms, 
one  of  the  most  eminent  among  the  Lutheran  pastors  in 
Germany.  He  was  born  in  llerrmansburg,  in  the  king- 
dom of  Hanover,  about  the  year  1809.  iiis  father  was 
pastor  of  the  church  in  llerrmansburg  before  him,  and 
was  remarkable  for  the  strict  discipline  of  his  family. 


As  a boy,  Louis  excelled  all  his  comrades  in  wrestling, 
boxing,  and  other  athletic  sports.  He  prepared  for  the 
university  at  the  gymnasium  of  Celle,  completing  the 
course  in* two  years.  From  1827  till  1830  he  studied  at 
the  University  of  Gottingen  with  signal  ardor  and  suc- 
cess. lie  was  repelled  from  theology  at  this  time  partly 
on  account  of  the  state  of  the  science,  partly  owing  to 
difficulties  in  his  own  mind,  devoting  himself  to  mathe- 
matics, astronomy,  philosophy,  and  the  languages,  in- 
cluding the  Spanish,  Sanscrit,  and  Chaldee.  To  the  last 
he  was  an  enthusiastic  student  of  Tacitus.  His  conver- 
sion, which  probably  occurred  soon  after  leaving  the 
university,  was  of  a.very  thorough  character.  “ I have 
never  in  my  life,”  said  he, ‘‘known  what  fear  was;  but 
when  I came  to  the  knowledge  of  my  sins,  then  I quaked 
before  the  wrath  of  God,  so  that  my  limbs  trembled.” 
A Christian  hope  soon  took  complete  and  ever-increasing 
possession  of  his  mind,  and  in  1844  we  find  him  engaged 
in  preaching  at  llerrmansburg,  beginning  his  labors  as 
an  assistant  to  his  father. 

With  the  settlement  of  this  young  minister,  a mighty 
influence  began  to  go  forth  from  the  little  German  vil- 
lage, which  soon  changed  the  aspect  of  the  country 
around  him,  and  before  his  own  death  it  was  felt  all 
over  the  world.  The  minds  of  the  people  had  been  be- 
numbed by  Rationalism  or  by  a dead  orthodoxy,  which 
vanished  like  a cloud  before  the  apostolic  ardor  of  Harms. 
All  in  the  neighborhood  became  at  once  regidar  attend- 
ants at  church,  devout  observers  of  the  Sabbath,  and 
strict  in  maintaining  family  prayer.  Young  Harms  soon 
found  himself  to  be  virtually  the  pastor  of  a region  ten 
miles  square,  containing  seven  villages,  which  in  an  in- 
credibly short  time  he  brought  into  a state  of  working 
religious  activity. 

And  now,  having  regulated  affairs  immediately  around 
i him,  this  extraordinary  man  began  to  feel  the  care  of 
the  whole  world  upon  his  mind.  He  felt  responsible 
even  for  Africa  and  the  East  Indies.  But  how  to  bring 
the  moral  force  of  his  little  German  village  to  bear  upon 
the  continent  of  Africa  was  the  problem.  The  result 
formed  one  of  the  most  remarkable  feats  of  spiritual  en- 
terprise ever  recorded.  Harms  first  worked  through  the 
North  German  Missionary  Society.  But  he  soon  be- 
came dissatisfied,  and  resolved  to  have  a mission  which 
should  carry  out  his  own  ideas  and  be  under  bis  own 
control.  He  proposed  to  select  pious  and  intelligent 
young  men  from  the  peasantry  around  him,  who  were 
already  masters  of  some  trade,  give  them  a theological 
training  of  four  years  in  length,  and  then  send  them 
forth,  ordained  as  missionaries,  to  the  heathen.  Twelve 
young  men  presented  themselves  at  once,  but  Harms 
had  not  the  means  of  educating  them.  His  best  friends 
hinted  to  him  that  he  was  a little  out  of  his  senses.  He 
then,  to  use  his  own  expression,  “ knocked  on  the  dear 
Lord  in  prayer.”  Iiis  mind  had  been  powerfully  im- 
pressed by  the  words  of  a courtier,  spoken  to  duke  George 
of  Saxony,  who  had  lain  on  his  death-bed  hesitating 
whether  to  flee  for  salvation  to  the  Saviour  or  to  the 
pope.  “ Your  grace,"  said  the  courtier,  “ Straightforward 
is  the  best  runner.”  In  a few  moments  the  purpose  of 
Harms  was  formed  so  completely  that  no  doubt  ever 
again  occurred  to  him.  His  plan  of  action  was  struck 
out  at  once.  Without  ever  asking  a single  man,  he 
prayed  to  God  for  money.  Funds  poured  in  upon  him. 
lie  built  a large  edifice  for  his  missionary  college.  51  ore 
students  came  than  he  could  accommodate.  He  prayed 
for  more  money.  It  came  to  him  from  Germany,  Rus- 
sia, England,  America,  and  Australia.  He  erected  an- 
other building.  The  fact  of  his  not  asking  any  money 
at  all  became  the  most  efficient  advertisement,  of  bis 
cause  which  could  be  made.  He  called  his  mission 
school  ‘*  Swimming  Iron.”  Soon  the  first  class  of  mis- 
sionary candidates  graduated  and  were  ready  for  Af- 
rica, but  the  pastor  had  no  means  of  sending  them  there, 
“ Straightforward  is  the  best  runner,”  said  Harms;  again 
he  prayed  to  God  for  counsel,  and  decided  to  build  a 
ship.  The  project  was  rather  original,  as  llerrmansburg 


HARMS 


83 


HARMS 


was  sixty  miles  from  the  sea,  and  most  of  the  people  had 
never  seen  a ship.  Again  Harms  prayed  for  the  neces- 
sary money.  Funds  came  as  usual,  and  the  ship  was 
built  and  launched.  As  the  day  of  sailing  approached, 
the  simple  Herrmansburgers  brought  to  the  vessel  fruits 
and  iiowers,  grain  and  meats,  ploughs,  harrows,  hoes,  and 
a Christmas-tree,  that  the  missionaries  might  have  the 
means  of  celebrating  that  festival  upon  the  seas.  The 
day  of  sailing,  Oct.  18, 1853,  was  held  as  a gala  by  the 
simple  people;  but  soon  news  came  that  the  ship  was 
lost.  ‘‘What  shall  we  do?”  said  the  people.  “Hum- 
ble ourselves,  and  build  a new  ship,”  said  the  minister. 
The  report  proved  untrue,  and  that  vessel  is  still  plying 
her  missionary  voyages  between  Hamburg  and  Africa. 
Ilarms's  preachers  have  also  penetrated  to  Australia, 
the  East  Indies,  and  our  Western  States. 

In  1854  Harms  felt  the  need  of  diffusing  missionary 
intelligence  among  his  own  countrymen,  and  arousing  a 
more  universal  interest  in  the  cause.  He  desired  to  es- 
tablish a journal  devoted  to  missions,  but  his  friends  did 
not  see  how  it  could  be  published.  “Let  us  have  a 
printing-press  upon  the  heath,”  said  Harms.  At.  once 
lie  asked  God  for  the  money,  and  it  reached  him  as 
usual.  The  missionary  journal  was  soon  established, 
ami  in  a few  years  it  attained  a circulation  of  fourteen 
thousand  copies,  only  two  periodicals  in  all  Germany 
having  a larger  edition.  It  still  abounds  with  racy  let- 
ters from  the  missionaries,  and  the  stirring  essays  of 
Harms  formed  its  chief  attraction  until  his  death.  He 
also  established  a missionary  festival,  held  annually  in 
June  in  the  open  air  on  Liineberger  Heath.  On  some 
years  this  festival  was  attended  by  six  thousand  people, 
including  strangers  from  all  parts  of  Europe.  “How 
enchanting,”  said  he,  “ are  such  Christian  popular  festi- 
vals, under  the  open  sky,  with  God’s  dear  Word,  and  ac- 
counts of  his  kingdom  qnd  prayer,  and  loud-sounding 
hymns  and  tones  of  the  trumpet.” 

The  peculiar  character  and  enormous  amount  of  Pas- 
tor Harms’s  work  can  be  better  understood  from  the  ac- 
count of  a traveller  from  our  own  country  who  spent  a 
Sabbath  with  him  in  the  autumn  of  18G3.  The  de- 
scription which  follows  may  be  considered  a specimen 
of  his  usual  Sabbath-day’s  work.  After  speaking  of 
his  church  edifice,  which  was  nine  hundred  and  seventy- 
five  years  old,  and  which  Harms  refused  to  have  pulled 
down,  considering  its  antiquity  a means  of  influence,  the 
writer  proceeds : “ Strangers  were  obliged  to  take  seats 
at  half  past  nine  on  Sabbath  morning,  in  order  to  secure 
them ; service  commenced  at  half  past  ten.  When  the 
pastor  entered,  the  vast  audience  rose  with  as  much  awe 
as  if  he  were  an  apostle.  His  form  was  bent,  his  face 
pale  and  indescribably  solemn.  He  appeared  utterly  ex- 
hausted, and  leaned  against  the  altar  for  support.  In  a 
low,  tremulous  tone,  he  chanted  a prayer.  Without  look- 
ing at  the  Bible,  he  then  recited  a psalm,  commenting 
upon  every  verse.  He  then  read  the  same  psalm  from 
the  Bible,  by  the  inflections  of  his  voice  gathering  up 
and  impressing  his  previous  comments.  He  next  ad- 
ministered the  ordinance  of  baptism  to  those  infants 
who  had  been  born  since  the  previous  Sabbath,  and  ad- 
dressed the  sponsors.  After  annomicing  his  text,  he 
gave  a rich  exposition  of  it ; a prayer  followed,  and  he 
preached  his  sermon,  which  was  very  impressive  and  di- 
rect, though  the  voice  of  the  preacher  was  often  shrill. 
After  another  prayer,  he  administered  the  Lord’s  Supper 
to  about  two  hundred  persons,  one  tenth  of  his  church 
partaking  of  the  ordinance  every  Sabbath  day.  The 
female  communicants  were  dressed  appropriately  for  the 
occasion.  The  people  were  dismissed  after  a service  of 
three  hours  and  forty  minutes  in  length.  After  an 
hour’s  intermission  the  audience  assembled  again.  The 
pastor  recited  a chapter  from  the  New  Testament,  com- 
menting upon  each  verse,  and  then  read  from  the  book 
as  before.  After  singing  by  the  congregation,  he  cate- 
chised the  audience,  walking  up  and  down  the  aisle, 
questioning  children  and  adults.  The  audience  seemed 
transformed  into  a vast  Bible-class.  This  sendee  of 


three  hours’  length  closed  with  singing  and  prayer.  At 
seven  in  the  evening  two  hundred  villagers  assembled 
in  the  hall  of  the  parsonage,  and  lie  preached  to  them 
in  Low  German,  after  which  he  held  a missionary  con- 
cert, reading  letters  from  his  missionaries,  dated  from 
Africa,  Australia,  and  the  United  States.  He  seemed  to 
have  his  hand  upon  all  parts  of  the  earth.  Evidently 
the  congregation  felt  responsible  for  the  whole  world. 
At  the  close  of  the  service  lie  shook  bands  with  each 
one  of  the  people  in  turn,  saying,  “May  the  Redeemer 
bless  you.”  At  ten  in  the  evening  the  neighbors  as- 
sembled at  the  parsonage  to  join  with  the  pastor  in 
family  prayer,  lie  reciled  from  the  Bible,  commenting 
as  before,  and  offered  a prayer  which  was  rich  in  devo- 
tion, but  distressing  to  listen  to,  so  great  was  liis  fatigue.” 

Besides  these  enormous  labors  on  eaeli  Sabbath,  I’as- 
tor  Harms  wrote  incessantly  for  bis  missionary  inaga-- 
zine,  published  a large  'number  of  books,  and  sent  about 
three  thousand  letters  a year,  mostly  to  liis  missionaries. 
Ilis  method  of  keeping  his  missionary  accounts  was  to 
take  what  money  he  got  and  pay  what  he  owed;  nor 
was  he  ever  troubled,  though  the  expense  of  liis  mis- 
sions was  about  forty  thousand  dollars  a year.  lie  re- 
cords a hundred  instances  of  the  exact  amount  of  money 
reaching  him  at  just  the  time  he  wanted  it.  For  four 
hours  every  day  he  held  a levee  for  his  parishioners, 
who  consulted  hint  freely,  not  only  about  religious  sub- 
jects, but  upon  everything  which  interested  them — the 
state  of  their  health  or  the.  tillage  of  their  land.  So 
crowded  were  these  levees,  that  often  a stranger  waited 
four  daj's  for  his  turn  to  see  the  pastor.  The  independ- 
ence of  Pastor  Harms  was  singularly  manifested.  The 
king  of  Hanover,  at  one  time,  knowing  that  liis  eminent 
subject  was  in  the  city,  sent  a high  officer  of  govern- 
ment, with  one  of  the  state  carriages,  to  invite  him  to 
the  palace.  “ Give  my  regards  to  the  king,”  said  Harms ; 
“ 1 would  obey  his  order,  if  duty  allowed ; but  I must  go 
home  and  attend  to  my  parish.”  The  officer  was  indig- 
nant as  he  delivered  the  message ; hut  the  king  said, 
“ Harms  is  the  man  for  me.”  Though  a rigid  monarch- 
ist, the  pastor  often  preached  against  the  government, 
and  prepared  his  people  to  resist  it.  He  often  entered 
into  sharp  conflict  with  the  government  officers,  espe- 
cially in  regard  to  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath,  and 
was  reported  by  them  sixtv-fivc  times,  hut  escaped  un- 
hurt. With  characteristic  boldness,  he  warned  the 
churches  not  to  endure  unbelieving  ministers  in  the  pul- 
pit, although  the  ministers  held  their  places  from  the 
king.  He  defied  the  democracy  as  well  as  the  court, 
and  publicly  advised  them,  if  they  were  discontented, 
to  go  to  Africa  in  a body,  lie  was  vehemently  opposed 
to  the  popular  amusements,  declaring  that  men  “ acted 
themselves  into  hell  from  the  theatre,  and  danced  them- 
selves into  hell  from  the  ballroom.”  .The  Calvinistic  doc- 
trines and  the  Congregational  polity  were  objects  of  his 
marked  aversion.  He  declared  that  the  Baptists  who 
postponed  the  baptism  of  their  children  were  robbers 
and  murderers  of  those  children’s  souls.  Nor  would  he 
ever  insure  his  seminary  buildings,  thinking  that  God 
would  protect  them,  and  lie  had  an  idea  that  insurance 
against  accident  involved  a certain  defiance  of  Jehovah. 
When  he  catechised  the  congregation,  and  children  fail- 
ed in  the  exercise,  he  would  sometimes  punish  them  in 
public.  He  required  his  missionary  students  to  perform 
a daily  task  of  manual  labor,  not  only  for  economical 
reasons,  but  also  “that  they  might  be  kept  humble,  and 
not  be  ashamed  of  their  work,  any  more  than  Paul  was 
of  his  tent-making.”  As  be  never  asked  from  any  one 
but  God,  he  had  a violent  antipathy  to  beggars,  and 
none  were  ever  found  in  liis  parish.  Almost  adored  by 
his  people  as  a species  of  rural  pope,  lie  maintained  the 
utmost  care  and  watchfulness  to  preserve  his  own  hu- 
mility while  breathing  the  atmosphere  of  their  homage. 
He  vielded  not  a particle  of  his  activity  to  the  very  last. 
When  lie  could  no  longer  ascend  his  pulpit,  he  preached 
standing  at  the  altar;  when  he  could  not  preach  stand- 
ing, he  preached  sitting ; when  he  could  no  longer  sit, 


IIARXEPIIER  8 

he  prayed  that  r,od  would  take  him  away  as  a burden, 
lie  died  on  the  14th  of  November,  1800,  at  the  age  of 
fifty-seven,  and  was  buried  amid  the  tears  of  his  people 
on  his  beloved  Liineberger  1 teath. 

It  Ls  difficult  to  form  a just  estimate  of  this  remarka- 
ble man.  The  keynote  of  Harms’s  character  was  his 
union  with  Hod.  Yet  so  rare  is  any  high  degree  of  this 
quality,  that  its  possession  makes  the  man’s  character 
stand  original  and  alone,  and  it  seems  as  though  “ one  of 
the  prophets  had  risen  again.”  Another  world  had  laid 
hold  with  a strong  grasp  upon  his  mind,  so  real  was  it  to 
him  that  he  appeared  to  walk  not  by  faith,  but  by  sight. 
He  lived  among  ns  like  a being  of  another  race  detained 
here  in  the  body,  and  acted  with  a moral  insight  and 
directness  which  no  human  standard  can  comprehend. 
Yet  this  wonderful  spirituality  was  often  marred  by  big- 
otry; sometimes  it  bordered  upon  the  superstitious;  at 
times  his  apostolic  fervor  was  tinged  with  self-will,  and 
we  are  astonished  at  the  alternate  breadth  and  narrow- 
ness of  his  mind.  lie  made  his  most  opposite  powers 
assist  each  other;  to  carry  out  the  moral  intention  of  an 
angel,  he  brought  a worldly  wisdom  which  no  one  eoidd 
surpass;  in  comprehension  of  detail  and  fertility  of  expe- 
dients he  could  have  taught  the  ablest  men  of  business. 
11  is  spirituality  acted  upon  the  world  through  an  all- 
consuming,  almost  morbid  activity.  He  saw  nothing 
before  him  but  a succession  of  duties, yet  his  mind  found 
an  unconscious  delight  in  the  extent  and  variety  of  its 
own  efforts,  and  his  zeal  was  doubtless  enhanced  by  the 
continual  jov  of  attempt  and  success.  It  is  hard  to  ac- 
quit him  of  a species  of  suicide;  in  spite  of  every  warn- 
ing of  nature,  he  overworked  himself  incessantly,  and 
pressed  on  to  the  heavens  whither  lie  was  tending  long 
before  be  could  be  spared  by  the  world  below.,  11  is 
amazing  spirituality,  the  closeness  to  another  sphere 
with  which  he  lived,  would  have  elevated  him  beyond 
our  sight;  but  the  eccentricities  which  slightly  marred 
so  grand  a character  showed  that  he  was  human,  and 
lowered  him  to  a point  nearer  the  sympathy  of  man- 
kind. To  the  last,  the  world  must,  stand  astonished  at 
the  moral  power  of  a man  who  could  make  a little  coun- 
try church  in  a remote  part  of  Germany  girdle  the  earth 
with  its  influence,  and  Harms  alone  is  an  answer  to  the 
Saviour's  question,  “ When  the  Son  of  man  cometh,  shall 
he  And  faith  on  the  earth?”  At  intervals  God  gives 
such  a one  to  the  Church,  to  show  to  the  world  the 
spiritual  power  of  one  soul  which  is  really  in  earnest. 
Harms  has  lived,  and  Germany,  Africa,  and  the  East  In- 
dies have  felt  the  consequence.  lie  was  one  of  those 
blocks  from  whom,  in  earlier  ages,  the  Catholic  Church 
would  have  hewn  her  saints  and  her  martyrs;  he  was  a 
l’rotcstant  Loyola;  had  lie  left  the  world  a lew  centu- 
ries before,  he  would  assuredly  have  been  canonized  as 
a Domnie  or  St. Francis;  bis  remains  would  have  per- 
formed miracles  without  end;  romantic  tradition  woidd 
have  sprung  from  and  twined  around  his  memory';  or- 
ders of  priests  and  stately  cathedrals  would  have  home 
bis  name;  and  thousands  of  devotees  might  to-day  be 
worshipping  at  his  shrine.  (W.  E.  1’.) 

Harne'pher  filch.  Chame'pher , “lEinn,  perhaps 
snarer;  Scpl.  Aavtufntn,  Yulg.  llarnapher),  one  of  the 
sons  of  Zophali,  a chief  of  the  tribe  of  Asher  (1  Cliron. 
vii,  80).  15.C.  between  If.  12  and  1053. 

Harness  occurs  in  several  senses  in  the  Eng.  Vers, 
as  the  rendering  of  different  Heb.  words. 

1.  (fisar',  prop,  to  bind,  as  it.  is  generally  ren- 
dered) is  sometimes  applied  to  the  act  of  fastening  ani- 
mals to  a cart  or  vehicle,  c.  g.  yokiny  kine  (1  Sam.  vi,  7, 
lo,  “lie”)  or  horses  (.for.  xlvi‘  4,  “harness”),  tjearint/  a 
chariot  (Gen.  xlvi,  2!>;  Exod.  xiv,  0;  *>  Kings  ix,  21, 
*’  ,nake  ready”),  or  absolutely  (1  Kings  xviii,41 ; 2 Kings 
ix,  21,  " prepare”).  From  the  monuments  we  see  that 
the  harness  of  the  Egyptian  war-clmriots  was  composed 
of  leather,  and  the  trappings  were  richly  decorated,  be- 
ing stained  with  a great  variety  of  colors,  and  studded 
with  gold  aud  silver.  See  Chariot. 


[ IIAT10D 

2.  In  the  old  English  sense  for  armor  (p'432  or 
ne'sliek , warlike  accoutrements,  elsewhere  “ armor, n 
“weapons,”  etc.),  2 Cliron.  ix,  24,  See  Armor. 

3.  In  a like  sense  for  “£‘Tr  ( shiryan ',  1 Kings  xxii, 
34;  2 Chron.  xviii,  33),  a coat  of  mail  (“breastplate,” 
Isa.  lix,  17).  See  Armor. 

4.  “ Harnessed”  (D"‘ilpn,  chamushim',  from  Ei’SFl, 
in  the  sense  of  being  Jierce  i'or  battle)  is  the  expression 
used  to  represent  the  equipped  condition  of  the  Israel- 
ites as  they  passed  out  of  Egypt  (Exod.  xiii,  18;  “arm- 
ed,” Josh,  i,  14 ; iv,  12,  Judg.  vii,  11),  and  seems  to  de- 
note their  orderly  and  intrepid  disposal  as  if  to  meet  a 
foe  (the  ancient  versions  interpret  generally  full-armed). 
(See  Gesenius,  Lex.  s.  v.) 

Ha'rcd  (Hob.  Charod',  Tnn:  Sept.  ’Apu>8  v.  r. 
’Apdc),  a brook  or  place  a spring  or  fountain, 

“well,”  Sept.  Trijyi'i)  not  far  from  Jezreel  and  Mount 
Gilboa  (“Gilead,”  Judg.  vii,  3),  by  (bv)  which  Gideon 
and  liis  great  army  encamped  on  the  morning  of  the 
day  which  ended  in  the  rout  of  the  Midianites  (Judg. 
vii,  1),  and  where  the  trial  of  the  people  by  their  mode 
of  drinking  apparently  took  place.  See  Gideox.  The 
name  means  “ palpitation and  it  has  been  suggested 
that  it  originated  in  consequence  of  the  alarm  and  ter- 
ror of  most  of  the  men  who  were  here  tested  by  Gideon 
(ver.  3,  5) ; but  this  supposition  seems  very  far-fetched, 
and  the  name  more  probably  arose  from  some  peculiar- 
ity in  the  outflow  of  the  stream,  or  from  some  person  or 
circumstance  otherwise  unknown.  The  word,  slightly  al- 
tered, recurs  in  the  proclamation  to  the  host — “Whoso- 
ever is  fearful  and  trembling  (^HH,  chared '),  let  him  re- 
turn” (ver.  3) ; but  it  does  not  follow  that  the  name  Cha- 
rod was,  as  Prof.  Stanley  proposes,  bestowed  on  account 
of  the  trembling,  for  the  mention  of  the  trembling  may 
have  been  suggested  by  the  previously  existing  name  of 
the  fountain  : either  would  suit  the  paronomastic  vein  in 
which  these  ancient  records  so  delight.  The  word  cha- 
red (A.V.  “was  afraid”)  recurs  in  the  description  of  an- 
other event  which  took  place  in  this  neighborhood,  pos- 
sibly at  this  very  spot — Said’s  last  encounter  with  the 
Philistines — when  he  “was  afraid,  and  his  heart  trem- 
bled greatly”  at  the  sight  of  their  fierce  hosts  (1  Sam. 
xxviii,  5).  It  was  situated  south  of  the  hill  Moreh, 
where  the  Midianites  were  encamped  in  the  valley  of 
Jezreel  (ver.  1),  and  on  the  brow  of  the  hills  overlook- 
ing that  plain  on  the  south  (ver.  8).  As  the  camps  were 
not  far  distant  from  each  other  (compare  ver.  10-15),  it 
must  have  been  in  a narrow  part  of  the  valley,  and  prob- 
ably near  its  head  (for  the  invaders  came  from  the  east, 
chap,  vi,  3,  and  fled  down  the  eastern  defiles,  chap,  vii, 
22).  lienee  the  position  of  the  present  Ain  Jalud, 
south  of  Jezreel,  is  very  probably  that  of  the  fountain  in 
question  (Stanley’s  Sinai  and  Palest,  p.  334-330).  This 
spring,  which  gives  rise  to  a small  stream  flowing  east- 
ward down  the  wady  of  the  same  name,  is  evidently  the 
representative  of  the  ancient  name  Gilead  applied  to 
this  spot  [see  Gilead,  2],  and  has  thus  supplanted  the 
other  name  llarocl.  Indeed  it.  is  probable  that  the  lat- 
ter was  rather  the  name  of  a town  in  the  neighborhood, 
since  we  find  mention  of  its  inhabitants  (2  Sam.  xxiii, 
25).  See  IIaroditk.  “The  valley  of  Jezreel”  referred 
to  is  an  eastern  arm  of  the  great  plain  of  Esdraelon, 
bounded  on  the  south  by  Gilboa,  and  on  the  north  by  a 
parallel  ridge  called  the  “bill  of  Moreh”  (q.v.).  It  is 
about  three  miles  wide.  See  Jezreel.  The  Midianites 
were  encamped  along  the  base  of  Moreh,  and  probably 
near  the  town  of  Shunem.  On  the  south  side  of  the 
valley,  at  the  base  of  Gilboa,  and  nearly  opposite  Shu- 
nem,  is  the  fountain  of  Ain  Jalud.  It  is  about  a mile 
east  of  Jezreel,  and  hence  it  was  also  called  the  “ foun- 
tain of  Jezreel.”  The  water  bursts  out  from  a rude 
grotto  in  a wall  of  conglomerate  rock,  which  here  forms 
the  base  of  Gilboa.  . It  first  flows  into  a large  but  shal- 
low pond,  and  then  winds  away  through  the  rich  green 
vale  past  the  ruins  of  Bethshean  to  the  Jordan.  The 


IIARODITE 


85 


HARP 


side  of  Gilboa  rises  over  the  fountain  steep  and  ragged, 
home  have  thought  it  strange  that  the  Midianites  should 
not  have  seized  on  this  fountain : but,  as  many  of  the 
Israelites  probably  lurked  in  the  mountain,  the  Midian- 
ites may  have  deemed  it  more  prudent  to  encamp  in  the 
open  plain  to  the  north,  where  there  are  also  fountains. 
The  Jerusalem  Itinerary  seems  to  indicate  that  the  name 
Ain  Jalud  (q.  d.  “Fountain  of  Goliath”)  arose  from  an 
ancient  tradition  that  the  adjoining  valley  was  the  site 
of  David’s  victory  over  the  giant  (ed.Wesseling,  p.586). 
The  fountain  was  a noted  camping-ground  for  both 
Christians  and  Saracens  during  the  Crusades.  William 
of  Tyre  calls  it  Tubania  (fiesta  Dei  per  Francos,  p.  1037 ; 
Bohadiu,  Vita  Salad  ini,  p.  53).  The  valley  of  Jezreel 
still  forms  a favorite  haunt  of  the  wild  Bedawln,  who 
periodically  cross  from  the  east  side  of  the  Jordan,  as  in 
Judg.  vi,  5 : “They  came  up  with  their  cattle  and  their 
tents,  and  they  came  as  grasshoppers  for  multitude; 
both  they  and  their  camels  were  without  number”  (Por- 
ter, Handbook  for  Syr.  and  Pal.  ii,  355;  Robinson,  Bib. 
Res.  ii,  324). — Kitto,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v. 

Ha'rodite  (Heb.  Charodi',  Sept.  ’Apodi),  an 
epithet  of  Shammah  and  Elika,  two  of  David’s  heroes 
(2  Sam.  xxiii,  25),  probably  from  their  being  natives  of 
Hakod,  a place  near  the  fountain  of  the  same  name 
(Judg.  vii,  1).  See  Harorite. 

Haro'ell  (1  Chron.  ii,  52).  See  Reaiaii. 

Ha'rorite  (Heb.  CliarorV,  "H'pn,  prob.  by  errone- 
ous transcription  for  Harodite;  Sept,  has  OaCi, 

Vnlg.  A rorites),  an  epithet  of  Shammoth,  one  of  David’s 
heroes  (1  Chron.  xi,  27)  ; for  which  the  parallel  passage 
(2  Sam.  xxiii,  25)  more  correctly  reads  Harodite  (q.  v). 

Har'oshetli  (Heb.  Charo'sheth)  of  the  Gentiles 
(Splits!  ndrill,  workmanship  of  the  nations,  i.  e.  city 
of  handicrafts ; Sept.  ’ApajcoQ  tujv  tQvu>i>,  Vulg.  Ilaro- 
setli  pentium ),  a city  supposed  to  have  been  situated 
near  Ilazor,  in  the  northern  parts  of  Canaan,  afterwards 
called  Upper  Galilee,  or  Galilee  of  the  Gentiles,  from 
the  mixed  races  inhabiting  it.  See  Galilee.  Ilaro- 
shetli  is  said  to  have  been  the  residence  of  Sisera,  the 
general  of  the  armies  of  Jabin,  king  of  Canaan,  who 
reigned  in  Hazor  (Judg.  iv,  2).  Here  the  army  and 
chariots  of  Jabin  were  marshalled  under  the  great  cap- 
tain before  they  invaded  Israel,  and  defiled  from  the 
northern  mountains  into  the  broad  battle-field  of  Esdra- 
elon  (ver.  13).  After  the  terrible  defeat  and  slaughter 
on  the  banks  of  the  Kishon,  to  this  place  the  fugitives 
of  the  army  returned,  a shattered  and  panic-stricken 
remnant.  Barak  and  his  victorious  troops  followed  them 
into  the  fastnesses  of  their  own  mountains,  to  the  very 
gates  of  Ilaroshcth  (ver.  16).  The  city  is  not  again 
mentioned  in  the  Bible,  nor  is  it  referred  to  by  Jose- 
phus, Jerome,  or  any  ancient  writer.  It  was  at  the  ex- 
treme of  Jabin’s  territory,  opposite  the  Kisliou  (ver.  13), 
and  also  at  a good  distance  from  Tabor  (ver.  14).  It  is 
supposed  to  have  stood  on  the  west  coast  of  the  lake 
Merom  (el-Huleh),  from  which  the  Jordan  issues  forth 
in  one  unbroken  stream,  and  in  the  portion  of  the  tribe 
of  Naphtali.  Jabin’s  capital,  Hazor,  one  of  the  fenced 
cities  assigned  to  the  children  of  Naphtali  (Josh,  xix, 
36),  lay  to  the  north-west  of  it.  Probably  from  inter- 
marriage with  the  conquered  Canaanites,  the  name  of 
Sisera  afterwards  became  a family  name  (Ezra  ii,  53). 
Neither  is  it  irrelevant  to  allude  to  this  coincidence  in 
connection  with  the  moral  effects  of  this  decisive  victo- 
ry ; for  Hazor,  once  “ the  head  of  all  those  kingdoms” 
(Josh,  xi,  6,  10),  had  been  taken  and  burnt  by  Joshua; 
its  king,  Jabin  I,  put  to  the  sword;  and  the  whole  con- 
federation of  the  Canaanites  of  the  north  broken  and 
slaughtered  in  the  celebrated  battle  of  the  waters  of 
Merom  (Josh,  xi,  5-14) — the  first  time  that  “chariots 
and  horses”  appear  in  array  against  the  invading  host, 
and  are  so  summarily  disposed  of,  according  to  di-vine 
command,  under  Joshua,  but  which  subsequently  the  j 
children  of  Joseph  feared  to  face  in  the  valley  of  Jez- 


reel (Josh,  xvii,  16-13),  and  before  which  Judah  actual- 
ly failed  in  the  Philistine  plain  (Judg.  i,  10).  Herein 
was  the  great  difficulty  of  subduing  plains,  similar  to 
that  of  the  Jordan,  beside  which  Ilaroshcth  stood.  It 
was  not  till  the  Israelites  had  asked  for  and  obtained  a 
king  that  they  began  “to  multiply  chariots  and  horses” 
to  themselves,  contrary  to  the  express  words  of  the  law 
(Dent,  xvii,  16),  as  it  were  to  fight  the  enemy  with  his 
own  weapons.  (The  first  instance  occurs  2 Sam.  viii,  4* 
comp.  1 Chron.  xviii,  4;  next  in  the  histories  of  Absa- 
lom, 2 Sam.  xv,  1,  and  of  Adonijah,  1 Kings  i,  5;  while 
the  climax  was  reached  under  Solomon,  1 Kings  iv,  26.) 
Then  it  was  that  the  Hebrews’  decadence  set  in  ! They 
were  strong  in  faith  when  they  hamstrung  the  horses 
and  burned  with  fire  the  chariots  of  the  kings  of  Ila- 
zor, of  Madon,  of  Shimron,  and  of  Achshaph  (Josh,  xi,  1). 
Yet  so  rapidly  did  they  decline  when  their  illustrious 
leader  was  no  more  that  the  city  of  Ilazor  had  risen 
from  its  ruins;  and,  in  contrast  with  the  kings  of  Meso- 
potamia and  Moab  (Judg.  iii),  who  were  both  foreign  po- 
tentates, another  Jabin,  the  territory  of  whose  ancestors 
had  been  assigned  to  the  tribe  of  Naphtali,  claimed  the 
distinction  of  being  the  first  to  revolt  against  and  shake 
off  the  dominion  of  Israel  in  his  newly  acquired  inherit- 
ance, But  the  victory  won  by  Deborah  and  Barak  was 
well  worthy  of  the  song  of  triumph  which  it  inspired 
(Judg.  v),  and  of  the  proverbial  celebrity  which  ever 
afterwards  attached  to  it  (Psa.  Ixxxiii,  9,  10;  a passage 
which  shows  that  the  fugitives  were  overtaken  as  far  as 
Endor).  The  whole  territory  was  gradually  won  back, 
to  be  held  per  mane  nth*,  as  it  would  seem  (Judg.  iv,  24); 
at  all  events,  we  hear  nothing  more  of  Hazor,  Haro- 
sheth,  or  the  Canaanites  of  the  north  in  the  succeeding 
wars.  The  etymology  of  the  name  JJarosheth,  q.  d. 
“ wood-euttmf/s,”  joined  with  the  above  facts,  may  jus- 
tify us  in  locating  the  city  on  the  upland  plains  of  Naph- 
tali, probably  on  one  of  those  ruin-crowned  eminences 
still  existing,  from  which  the  mother  of  Sisera,  looking 
out  from  her  latticed  window,  could  see  far  along  that 
road  by  which  she  expected  to  see  her  son  return  in  tri- 
umph (Judg.  v,  28).  Deborah,  in  her  beautiful  ode, 
doubtless  depicted  the  true  features  of  the  scene.  Rem- 
nants of  the  old  forests  of  oak  ami  terebinth  still  wave 
here  over  the  ruins  of  the  ancient  cities,  and  travellers 
may  see  the  black  tents  of  the  Arabs — fit  representa- 
tives of  the  Kenites  (iv,  17)  — pitched  beneath  their 
shade  (Porter,  Handbook  for  Syr.  and  Palest,  ii,  442  sq.; 
Stanley,  Jewish  Church,  i,  359). — Kitto,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s. 
v.  Schwarz  ( Palestine , p.  184)  thinks  it  identical  with 
the  village  Girsh,  situated  on  a high  mount  one  Eng- 
lish mile  west  (on  Zimmerman’s  Map  north-west)  of 
Jacob’s  bridge  across  the  Jordan,  and  nearly  destroy- 
ed by  an  earthquake  in  1837.  Dr.  Thomson,  however, 
who  gives  a vivid  description  of  the  geographical  feat- 
ures of  Barak’s  victory  (Land  and  Book,  ii,  142  sq.),  re- 
gards  the  site  as  that  of  the  present  village  JIarothieh 
(a  name,  according  to  him,  giving  the  exact  Arabic 
form  of  the  Hebrew),  an  enormous  double  mound  or  tell 
along  the  Kishon,  about  eight  miles  from  Megiddo.  cov- 
ered with  the  remains  of  old  walls  and  buildings. 

Harp  is  the  rendering  in  the  Autli.Yers.  of  the  fol- 
lowing terms  in  the  original:  usually  “*I2,  kiunor' 
(whence  the  Greek  Kivvpa),  the  lyre  or  cytharu  (inva- 
riably rendered  “ harp”),  N.  Test.  K&dpa  (l  Cor.  xiv,  7 ; 
Rev.  v,  8;  xiv,  2;  xv,  2),  whence  the  verb  KiSapiZio  (1 
Cor.  xiv,  7 ; Rev.  xiv,  2),  and  the  compound  noun  KiSra- 
ptpeog  (“harper,”  Rev.  xiv,  2;  xviii, 22) ; elsewhere  only 
of  the  Chalil.  ?5“ir“p,  kifharos'  (text  of  Dan.  iii,  5,  7, 10, 
15),  or  kathros'  (margin),  from  the  latter  Greek 

term.  See  Mfsic. 

The  “ harp"  was  David’s  favorite  instrument,  on  which 
he  was  a proficient  (see  Dreschler,  De  ciihara  David, 
Lips.  1712 ; also  in  Dgolino,  xxxii).  It  probably  did  not 
essentially  differ  from  the  modern  Arabic  cithere  (Nie- 
buhr, Trav.  i,  177,  pi.  26  ; Descript,  de  TEyypte,  xvii,  365, 
pi.  BB,  fig.  12, 13). — Winer,  ii,  124.  See  David, 


IIAIiP 


86 


HARP 


Gesenius  inclines  to  the  opinion  that  l"ii23)  is  derived 
from  *53.  kcmar ',  “ an  unused  onomatopoetic  root  which 
means  to  give  forth  a tremulous  and  stridnlous  sound, 
like,  that  of  a string  when  touched.”  The  kinnor  was 
the  national  instrument  of  the  Hebrews,  and  was  well 
known  throughout  Asia.  There  can  he  little  doubt  that 
it  was  the  earliest  instrument  with  which  man  was  ac- 


Aucient  Egyptian  Lyres.  1,  in  the  Leyden  Collection  ; 2, 
in  the  Berlin  Collection. 

qminted,  as  the  writer  of  the  Pentateuch  assigns  its  in- 
vention, together  with  that  of  the  33^“,  iigdb',  incor- 
rectly translated  “organ”  in  the  A.V.*to  the  antedilu- 
vian period  (<  Jen.  iv,  21).  Kalisch  (Hist,  and  Crit.  Com. 
on  the  Ohl  Test.)  considers  kinnor  to  stand  for  the  whole 
class  of  stringed  instruments  ( neginoth ),  as  ngub,  says  he, 
“is  the  type  of  all  wind  instruments.”  Writers  who 
connect  the  Ktvvpa  with  tawpog  (wailing),  Kivvpofiat 
(to  lament),  conjecture  that  this  instrument  was  only  em- 
ployed by'  the  Greeks  on  occasions  of  sorrow  and  distress. 
If  tli is  were  the  case  with  the  Greeks,  it  was  far  differ- 
ent with  the  Hebrews,  amongst  whom  the  kinnor  served 
as  an  accompaniment  to  songs  of  cheerfulness  and  mirth, 
as  well  as  ol  praise  and  thanksgiving  to  the  supreme 
Being  (Gen.  xxxi,27;  1 Sam.  xvi,  23;  2 Cliron.  xx,  28; 
IVa.  xxxiii,2),  and  was  very  rarely  used,  if  ever,  in  times 
of  private  or  national  afllictinn.  The  Jewish  hard  finds 
Ho  employment  for  the  kinnor  during  the  Babylonian 
captivity,  but  describes  it  as  put  aside  or  suspended  on 


Utbcr  Forms  of  Aucicut  Egyptian  Harps. 


the  willows  (Psa.  cxxxvii,  2)  ; and  in  like  manner  Job’s 
harp  “ is  changed  into  mourning”  (xxx,  31)  while  the 
hand  of  grief  pressed  heavily  upon  him.  The  passage 
“ mv  bowels  shall  sound  like  a harp  for  Moab”  (Isa.  xvi, 
II)  lias  impressed  some  Biblical  critics  with  the  idea 
that  the  kinnor  had  a lugubrious  sound;  but  this  is  an 
error,  since  YEfP  “11333  refers  to  the  vibration  of  the 
chords , and  not  to  the  sound  of  the  instrument  (Gesen. 
and  Hit  rig,  in  Comment.). 

Touching  the  shape  of  the  kinnor , a great  difference 
of  opinion  prevails.  The  author  of  Shiite  Haggibborim 
(c.  G)  describes  it  as  resembling  the  modern  harp ; Pfeif- 
fer gives  it  the  form  of  a guitar ; and  St.  Jerome  declares 
that  it  resembled  in  shape  the  Greek  letter  delta  (quoted 
byr  Joel  Brill  in  the  preface  to  Mendelssohn’s  Psalms). 
Josephus  records  (Ant.  vii,  12,  3)  that  the  kinnor  had 
ten  strings  (compare  Tlicodoret,  Qiucst.  34  on  1 Kings), 
and  that  it  was  played  on  with  the  plectrum ; others 
assign  to  it  twenty-four ; and  in  the  Shiite  Ilaggibborim 
it  is  said  to  have  had  forty-seven.  Josephus’s  state- 
ment, however,  ought  not  to  he  received  as  conclusive, 
as  it  is  in  open  contradiction  to  what  is  set  forth  in  the 
1st  book  of  Samuel  (xvi,  23 ; xviii,  10),  that  David  play- 
ed on  the  kinnor  with  his  hand.  As  it  is  reasonable  to 
suppose  that  there  was  a smaller  and  a larger  kinnor,  in- 
asmuch as  it  was  sometimes  played  by  the  Israelites 
whilst  walking  (1  Sam.  x,  5),  the  opinion  of  Munk — “On 
jouait  peut-etre  des  deux  maniercs,  suivant  les  dimen- 
’ sions  de  l’instrument” — is  well  entitled  to  consideration. 
The  Talmud  (Berachoth)  has  preserved  a curious  tradi- 
tion, to  the  effect  that  over  the  bed  of  David,  facing  the 
north,  a kinnor  was  suspended,  and  that  when  at  mid- 
night the  north  wind  touched  the  chords  they'  vibrated, 
and  produced  musical  sounds. 


The  r-’r-rrn  3133 — “harp  on  the  Shcminitli” 

(1  Chron.  xv, 21) — was  so-called  from  its  eight  strings. 
Many  learned  writers,  including  the  author  of  Shiite 
Haggibborim,  identify  the  word  “shemiiiitli”  with  the 
octave;  but  it  would  indeed  be  rash  to  conclude  that  the 


HARP 


87 


HARPHIUS 


ancient  Hebrews  understood  the  octave  in  precisely  the 
sense  in  which  it  is  employed  in  modern  times.  Sec 
SinsMiNiTii.  The  skill  of  the  Jews  on  the  kiunor  ap- 
pears to  have  reached  its  highest  point  of  perfection  in 
the  age  of  David,  the  effect  of  whose  performances,  as 
well  as  of  those  by  the  members  of  the  “schools  of  the 
prophets,”  are  described  as  truly  marvellous  (compare  1 
Sam.  x,  5 ; xvi,  23 ; and  xix,  20).— Smith,  s.  v. 

Two  instruments  of  the  lyre  species  are  delineated  on 
a bass-relief  of  the  Assyrian  monuments,  representing 
the  return  of  a monarch  celebrated  by  a procession  of 
musicians  (Layard,  Nineveh  and  Bab.  p.  388  sq.).  The 


Ancient  Assyrian  Lute  and  Ilarp. 
ancient  Babylonian  instrument  is  probably  that  repre- 
sented in  a single  instance  on  the  Assyrian  monuments 
at  Khorsabad,  depicting  three  short-boarded  performers 
on  the  lyre  ushered  into  the  great  chamber  by  two  eu- 
nuchs. The  musicians  are  clad  in  a short  tunic  held 
fast  by  a girdle,  and  their  hair  is  drawn  back,  and  termi- 
nates above  the  shoulders  in  .a  single  row  of  curls.  They 
proceed  with  measured  step,  singing  and  twanging  their 
lyres,  which  are  suspended  by  a broad  band  passing  over 
the  right  shoulder.  The  instrument  itself  somewhat  re- 
sembles the  Greek  lyre : it  has  a 
square  body  and  upright  sides,  the 
latter  being  connected  by  a cross- 
bar, to  which  are  lixed  strings  that 
seem  to  have  been  rather  numer- 
ous,for  we  can  count-eight  at  least, 
and  in  the  part  that  is  corroded 
away  there  is  room  for  tliree  or  four 
. . , . more.  Exactly  similar  instruments 

Ancient  Assyrian  are  now  secn  jn  Xubia  and  Dongo- 
la;  and  the  mode  of  playing  is  that 
the  right  hand  holds  a short  plectrum  to  strike  the  in- 
tervals, while  the  left  is  used  to  stop  and  twang  the 
cords  (Bonomi’s  Xineveh,  p.  187). 

Harps  or  guitars  are  constantly,  in  the  Holy  Scrip- 
tures, instruments  of  joy.  They  are  mentioned  in  very 
ancient  times  as  musical  instruments,  used  both  by  Jews 
and  Gentiles,  and  their  employment  in  the  Temple  wor- 
ship frequently  occurs.  Moses  has  named  their  original 
inventor  in  Gen.  iv,  21,  viz.  Jubal;  and  in  Gen.  xxxi, 
27,  Laban  says  to  Jacob,  “ Why  did  you  not  tell  me,  that 
I might  have  sent  you  away  with  mirth  and  songs,  with 
tabret  and  with  harp?"  Even  in  that  very  ancient 
writing,  the  book  of  Job  (xxi,  12),  that  patriarch,  speak- 
ing of  the  prosperity  of  the  wicked,  says,  “They  take 
the  timbrel  and  harp,  and  rejoice  at  the  sound  of  the 
organ.”  So,  when  complaining  of  his  own  condition 
(xxx,31), he  says,  “My  harp  also  is  turned  into  mourn- 
ing, and  my  organ  to  the  voice  of  them  that  weep.” 
Isaiah  speaks  of  the  harp  under  the  same  character,  as 
an  instrument  of  joy  (xxiv,  8).  Divine  subjects  used 
to  be  brought  forward  with  the  accompaniments  of  the 
harp  (Psa.  xlix,  5),  and  the  high  praises  of  God  were  so 
celebrated  (Psa.  xxxiii,  2 ; lxiii.  4;  lvii,  8:  see  also  Psa. 
lxxi,  22,  23;  xcii,  4,  5,  6;  xcviii,  5;  cxlvii,  7;  cl,  3). 
That  harps  are  used  to  celebrate  the  praises  of  heroes  is 
well  known.  Harps,  in  Solomon’s  day,  were  made  of 
the  almug-tree,  as  our  translators  have  it  (1  Kings  x, 
11,12).  They  were  often  gilded,  and  hence  called  gold- 
en harps  (Rev.  v,  8).  A harp  of  eight  strings  is  men- 
tioned (1  Chron.  xv,  21),  called  in  our  version  “harp 
on  the  Sheminith.”  But  amongst  the  Greeks  it  had,  for 
the  most  part,  seven  strings.  Josephus  (Ant.  vii,  12) 


describes  a harp  of  ten  strings.  The  distinct  sounds  ut- 
tered by  these  strings  or  chords  are  alluded  to  by  Paul 
in  1 Cor.  xiv, 7.  Its  soothing  effect  was  exemplified  in 
calming  down  the  furious  spirit  of  Saul  (l  Sam.  xvi,  17, 
24;  xviii,  9;  xix,  9).  The  spirit  of  prophecy  appears 
to  have  been  excited  by  instrumental  music  of  this  kind 
(2  Kings  iii,  15).  Harpers  held  the  instrument  in  the 
hand,  or  placed  it  on  a pillar,  or  sat  down  by  a river 
side  (Ovid,  Fasti,  ii,  115).  Sometimes  they  suspended 
them  from  trees,  to  which  there  is  an  allusion  in  Psa. 
cxxxvii,  1,  2.  The  harp  was  used  in  processions  and 
public  triumphs,  in  worship  and  the  offices  of  religion, 
and  was  sometimes  accompanied  with  dancing  (Psa. 
cxlix,  3).  They  were  also  used  after  successful  battles 
(sec  2 Chron.  xx,  28;  1 Macc.  xiii,  51).  Isaiah  alludes 
to  this  custom  (xxx,  32).  So  in  the  victory  of  the  Lamb 
(Rev.  xiv,  1,2):  “I  heard  the  voice  of  harpers  harping 
with  their  harps the  Church  in  heaven  being  repre- 
sented as  composing  a grand  chorus,  in  celebration  of 
the  triumphs  of  the  Redeemer.  At  solemn  feasts,  and 
especially  of  the  nuptial  kind,  harps  were  employed. 
To  this  the  prophet  Isaiah  alludes  (v,  11, 12).  The  use 
of  harps  in  worship  has  already  been  adverted  to,  and 
that  the  heathen  employed  them  on  such  occasions  ap- 
pears from  Dan.  iii,  5,  7,  15.  “Harps  of  God”  (Rev. 
xv,  2)  are  either  a Hebraism  to  show  their  excellence, 
as  the  addition  of  Ood  often  signifies  (the  most  excel- 
lent things  in  their  kind  being  in  the  Scriptures  said  to 
be  of  God),  as  a prince  of  God  (Gen.  xxiii,  0,  in  the 
original),  the  mountains  of  God  (Psa.  xxxvi,  6,  in  the 
original),  cedars  of  God  (Psa.  lxxx,  11,  in  the  original), 
and  the  like;  or  else  they  mean  harps  given  as  from 
God  ; or  harps  of  God  may  be  harps  used  in  the  service 
of  God,  in  opposition  to  harps  common  and  profane  (1 
Chron.  xvi,  42 ; 2 Chron.  vii,  6). — Wemj'ss,  s.  v. 

Harphius,  Henki,  a Flemish  mystic,  was  bom  at 
* Erp  (whence  he  is  sometimes  called  also  Erpius  or  Ett- 
I pen),  in  Brabant,  towards  the  beginning  of  the  15th 
| century.  lie  entered  the  order  of  St. Francis,  in  which 
; he  soon  became  distinguished  for  his  learning,  particu- 
larly in  mystical  theology.  He  attained  the  highest 
I dignities  of  the  order,  and  succeeded  in  restoring  the  dis- 
cipline in  several  convents  of  gray  friars  where  it  had 
been  relaxed.  He  died  at  Mechlin  Feb.  22, 1478.  The 
Franciscans  count  him  among  the  blessed,  yet  Bossuet 
seems  to  have  considered  him  only  as  an  enthusiast  and 
visionary.  He  wrote  Le  Directoiie  des  Contemplatifs 
(first  published  in  Low  Dutch,  then  in  Latin  by  Blome- 
ven,  under  the  title  Directorium  atireum  Contemplativo- 
rum  (Cologne,  1513, 8vo,  Antw.  1513. 12mo)  ; there  are 
generally  three  other  works  of  Harphius  published  with 
it:  Tract atus  de  Effiisione  Cordis: — J lodus  leyendi  rosa- 
rium Viryinis  Alarm : — Remedia  contra  Distractiones. 
The  Directorium  aureum  was  republished  with  commen- 
taries and  corrections  (Paris,  without  date,  12mo;  Co- 
logne, 1 527, 12mo ; 1 G 1 1 , 1 fimo ; 1 G45,  fol. ; Antwerp,  1 536, 
12mo;  Cologne,  1555, fol.*  Rome,  1585, 4to;  Brescia,  1601, 
4to;  translated  intif  French  by  Mme.  E.  B.,  Paris,  1552, 
16mo) : — Sermones,  etc.,  with  Trois  Parties  de  la  Peni- 
tence and  Triple  A venement  de  Jesus  Christ  (these  works, 
written  at  first  in  Flemish,  were  translated  into  Latin, 
Nuremberg,  1481, 4to;  Spire,  1484, 4to)  Speculum  au- 
reum decern  Preeceptonnn  Dei,  etc.  (Mayencc,  1474,  4to)  : 
— Speculum  Perfectionis  (Venice,  1524, 12mo;  transl.  into 
Italian,  1546, 12mo)  -.—Erplicatio  succincta  et  perspicua 
Xovem  Rnpinm  (of  Suso),  written  first  in  Low  Dutch, 
then  transl.  into  Latin  by  Surius,  and  inserted  in  the 
Opera  omnia  of  Henry  Suso  (Cologne,  1533, 1555, 1588, 
and  1615,  12mo;  Naples,  1658,  12mo) : — De  Motif ca- 
tione  pravorum  AJfectuum  (Cologne,  1604, 16mo) : C un- 
tied Canticorum  mystica  Erplicatio  (Cologne,  1564,  fol.). 
See  Trithemius,  De  Scriptoribus  ecclesiasticis  (col.  817); 
Bellarmin,  De  Scriptoribus  ecclesiasticis,  p.  415;  Mad- 
ding, Scrijtt.  Ordinis  J finorum,  p.  164 ; I leury,  Hist.  Ec- 
clesiastique,  vol.  xvi,  lib.  lxxix,  p.  5 ; Quetif  and  Echard, 
Script.  Ordinis  Preedicatonnn,  ii,  558;  Hoefer,  Xour.  Bi- 
oyr.  Generate,  xxiii,  439 ; Dupin,  Eccles.  Writers,  cent.xv. 


HARRIS 


IIARPSFELD  6 

Harpsfeld  or  Harpsfield,  John,  was  bom  about 
1510,  and  died  in  London  in  1.57*.  He  was  educated  at 
Winchester  School  and  New  College,  Oxford,  whereof  he 
was  admitted  fellow  in  1534.  He  became  chaplain  to 
bishop  Bonner,  whose  bitter  persecuting  spirit  he  shared, 
and  was  collated  to  St.  Martin's,  Ludgate,  in  1554,  but 
resigned  in  155*,  on  being  presented  to  the  living  of 
Layndon  in  Essex.  Shortly  before  the  death  of  queen 
Marv  he  was  made  dean  of* Norwich,  but  on  the  acces- 
sion" of  Elizabeth  was  deprived  of  that  post,  and  com- 
mitted to  the  Fleet  Prison  until  lie  gave  security  for  his 
good  behavior.  His  published  works  are  Condo  ad Cle- 
rum  (London,  1553, 8 vo) Homilies  (London,  1554-50; 
he  wrote  9 of  Bonner’s  1 lomilies)  \—Svpputatio  tempo- 
rum  a dilnrio  ad  a.  I).  1559  (London,  1500).  He  wrote 
also  some  ] imputations  and  Epistles  to  be  found  in  I ox  s 
A cts  and  Monuments.— llose,  New  Gen.  Biog.  Diet,  viii, 
212;  Iloefer,  Xour.  Biog.  Gent  rale,  xxiii,442;  Allibonc, 
Dictionary  of  A uthors , i,  7*8 ; Wood,  A then.  Oxon.  i.  (J. 
W.  M.) 

Harpsfield,  Nicholas,  an  English  Roman  Catho- 
lic historian,  and  brother  of  the  preceding,  was  also  edu- 
cated at  Winchester  School  and  New  College,  Oxford, 
where  he  was  admitted  fellow  in  1536,  and  bachelor  of 
laws  in  1543.  Ho  was  made  principal  of  Whitehall  in 
1544,  regius  professor  of  Greek  in  1546,  archdeacon  of 
Canterbury  and  prebendary  of  St,  Paul’s  in  1554.  He 
also  received  the  living  of  Layndon,  but  resigned  it  to 
his  brother  John  in  1558.  He  was  a very  zealous  Ro- 
man Catholic,  and,  on  the  accession  of  Elizabeth,  refus- 
ing to  acknowledge  her  supremacy,  he  was  deprived  of 
bis  preferments  and  imprisoned,  or  at  least  kept  under 
restraint  until  his  death  in  15*3.  During  his  imprison- 
ment (receiving  every  needed  help  from  his  custodian, 
bishop  Parker)  lie  .composed  his  I/istoria  Anglicana  Ec- 
clesiastica  (Douav,  1622,  fob).  To  this  there  is  append- 
ed, according  to  Nutt’s  catalogue.  (1837),  a treatise  en- 
titled Brevis  Narratio  de  Divortio  Henrid  VIII  . . . . 
ah  E.Campiana , which  may  be  the  “ Treatise  concerning 
Marriage"  mentioned  by  Wood  (see  Appendix  to  But- 
ler’s llist.  of  Reformation).  His  other  works  are  Ilis- 
toria  ho- res  is  Wicklijjianee  (published  with  Ilist.Ang.) : — 
Chrouicon  a Dilurio  Noe  ad  annum  1559;  and  a very  bit- 
ter attack  upon  the  Protestant  ecclesiastical  historians, 
Fox  in  particular,  which  was  conveyed  secretly  to  the 
Netherlands,  and  published  by  his  friend  Alan  Cope  un- 
der his  own  name,  to  screen  the  real  author  from  pun- 
ishment at  the  hands  of  Elizabeth — the  title  in  full  is 
A lain  Copi  Dialogi  ri  contra  Sit  mini  rontifeatus,  Mo- 
nastics 1 'its  Sanctorum,  S.  Imaginum  oppugnatores  et 
pseudo -Marty  res:  in  quibus  Centurionum  Magdebur- 
gensium,  Auctornm  Apologia ? Anglicans , Pseudo-Mar- 
tg rol ogteoru m nostri  temporis,  maxime  t'ero  Job.  Foxi 
et  alio  rum,  raris  fraudes,  pit  fids  calumnis  et  insignia 
mendada, deteguntnr  (Antwerp, Plautin,  1556, 4to).  lie 
left  also  many  MSS. — Rose,  New  Gen.  Bing.  Diet,  viii, 
2 12;  I loefer.  Now.  Biog.  Generale.  xxiii,  442 ; Allibone, 
Dirt,  of  A uthors,  i,  78*.  (.J.  W.  51). 

Harris,  Howell,  an  eminent  Welsh  evangelist, was 
bom  at  Trevecca  in  171 1.  In  1735  he  went  to  Oxford 
to  study  for  the  Church,  but  disgust  at  the  infidelity  and 
immorality  which  prevailed  there  drove  him  away.  Re- 
turning to  Wales,  he  began  to  exhort  the  neglected  poor 
m their  cottages,  and  was  so  successful  that  in  a fewr 
months  be  formed  several  societies  among  them,  thus 
affording  another  of  those  providential  coincidences 
which  mark  the  religions  history  of  the  times.  Thirty 
of  these  organizations  were  sustained  by  him  at  the  time 
of  Whitefield’s  arrival  in  Wales  in  1739,  and  in  three 
years  more  they  numbered  three  hundred.  lie  lived 
and  died  a Churchman,  lint  received  little  sympathy 
from  the  established  clergy,  and,  until  the  visits  of  the 
Methodist  founders,  pursued  bis  evangelical  labors  al- 
most alone,  apparently  without,  anticipating  that  they 
would  result  in  a wide-spread  evangelical  dissent.  In 
1715  there  were  only  thirty  Dissenting  chapels  in  the  ! 


principality,  and  in  1736  only  six  in  all  north  Wales;  in 
1860  there Were  2000.  Harris  was  a lay  preacher;  he 
applied  repeatedly  for  ordination,  but  was  denied  it  by 
the  bishops  on  account  of  his  irregular  modes  of  labor. 
Wliitefield  passed  from  Kingswood  to  Cardiff,  and  there 
saw  him  for  the  first  time.  Their  souls  met  and  blend- 
ed like  two  flames,  and  “ set  the  whole  principality  in  a 
blaze.”  For  years  the  laborious  layman  travelled,  and 
preached  twice  or  three  times  every  day.  “He  is  full 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,”  wrote  Wliitefield ; “ blessed  be  God, 
there  seems  a noble  spirit  gone  out  into  Wales.”  Wes- 
ley speaks  of  him  as  “a  powerful  orator”  {Journal,  1756). 
He  was  repeatedly  assaulted  by  mobs,  and  suffered  many 
forms  of  persecution  from  the  magistrates,  clergy,  and 
people,  but  his  courage  and  zeal  never  failed.  At  last 
ids  health  declined,  and  he  returned  to  Trevecca,  where 
he  organized  a Christian  household, built  a chapel,  and 
arranged  his  grounds  with  great  taste.  Wesley  calls  it 
“one  of  the  most  beautiful  places  in  Wales”  {Journal, 
1763,  p.  156).  In  the  French  war,  when  England  was 
threatened  with  invasion,  he  thought  it  his  duty  to  take 
a commission  in  the  army,  which  lie  held  for  three  years, 
preaching  wherever  he  went  with  his  regiment.  He 
died  in  grear  peace,  July  21, 1773.  See  Jackson,  Chris- 
tian Biography,  xii,  1 6* : Stevens,  History  of  Methodism, 
i,  118 ; ii,  86. 

Harris,  John,  D.D.,  F.R.S.,  an  English  divine,  was 
bom  about  1667.  He  studied  at  St.John’s  College,  Cam- 
bridge, and  became  successively  rector  of  St.  Mildred’s, 
London ; perpetual  curate  of  Stroud,  prebendary  of  Roch- 
ester, and  fellow,  secretary,  and  vice-president  of  the 
Royal  Society.  He  died  in  1719.  Dr.  Harris  was  the 
first  compiler  of  a dictionary  of  arts  and  sciences  in  Eng- 
land (1798,2  vols.  fol.),  and  was  a careful  and  able  edi- 
tor; but  he  was  improvident,  and  died  completely  des- 
titute. He  wrote  A Refutation  of  the  atheistical  Objec- 
tions against  the  Being  and  A (tributes  of  God  (London, 
1698, 4to): — Sermon,  John  xri,  2: — The  Wickedness  of  the 
Pretence  of  Treason  and  Rebellion  for  God's  sake  (Nov.. 
5th)  (London,  1715, 8vo);  and  compiled  a Collection  of 
Voyages  and  Travels  (Loud.  1702 ; revised  by  Carrq  bell, 
1744,  2 vols.  fob). — Darling,  Cgclojtsdia  Bibliographica , 
i,  1403;  Allibone,  Dictionary  of  Authors,  i,  790. 

Harris,  John,  D.D.,  an  eminent  Independent  min- 
ister and  scholar,  was  born  at  Ugborough,  in  Devonshire, 
March  8, 1802,  and  was  admitted  a student  at  the  Ilox- 
ton  Academy  for  the  education  of  ministers  belonging 
to  the  Independent  denomination  in  1821.  In  1827  lie 
settled  at  Epsom  as  a minister  amongst  the  Independ-  • 
ents.  His  first  literary  work,  entitled  The  Great  Teach- 
er, was  favorably  received ; but  he  became  most  widely 
known  as  the  successful  competitor  for  a prize  of  one 
hundred  guineas,  offered  by  Dr.  Conquest  for  the  best 
essay  on  the  subject  of  “ Covetousness.”  5 1 r.  Harris’s 
essay  w»as  entitled  Mammon,  and  had  a large  sale,  up- 
wards of  thirty  thousand  copies  having  been  sold  in  a 
few  years.  He  subsequently  obtained  two  other  prizes 
for  essays— one  entitled  “Britannia  on  the  Condition  and 
Claims  of  Sailors;”  the  other  on  Missions,  with  the  title 
The  Great  Commission.  “ On  account  of  the  reputation 
brought  by  these  works,  he  received  the  degree  of  D.D. 
from  Amherst  College,  and  was  also  invited  to  fill  the 
post  of  president  in  lady  Huntingdon’s  Theological  Col- 
lege at  Cheshunt.  Here  he  remained  till  the  union  of 
the  three  Independent  colleges  of  Highbury,  Homerton, 
and  Coward  in  New'  College,  when  he  accepted  the  oflice 
of  principal,  and  conducted  several  of  the  theological 
courses  in  that  institution.  He  filled  this  position  with  ‘ 
efficiency,  and  by  bis  industry  and  amiable  character 
contributed  to  the  success  which  has  attended  this  es- 
tablishment. Whilst  at  Cheshunt,  Dr.  Harris  published 
the  first  of  a series  of  works,  in  which  his  objeet  w\as  to 
illustrate  the  history  of  man  from  a theological  point  of 
view.  The  first  volume  was  entitled  The  Pre-Adamite 
Earth  (1847).  In  it  be  displayed  a great  amount  of 
learning,  and  especially  an  acquaintance  with  the  nat- 


HARRIS 


89 


HARROW 


ural  sciences,  which  lie  brought  to  bear  on  his  theolog- 
ical views.  The  second  volume  of  the  series  was  enti- 
tled Man  Primeval  (1849),  in  which  the  intellectual, 
moral,  and  religious  character  of  man  is  discussed.  A 
third  volume,  entitled  Patriarchy , or  the  Family , appear- 
ed in  1854.  Two  other  volumes  were  to  have  completed 
the  series,  and  to  have  been  devoted  to  the  1 State,’  or 
the  political  condition  of  man,  and  the  ‘Church,’  or  his 
religious  relations;  but  the  plan  was  cut  short  by  the 
death  of  Dr.  Harris,  Dec.  21,  185(i.”  These  writings 
evince  careful  study  and  a broad  range  of  thought.  Dr. 
Harris’s  practical  writings  have  had  an  immense  circida- 
tion  both  in  England  and  America.  See  Fish,  Pulpit  El- 
oquence (1857) ; Gilfillan,  Modern  Hrasterpieces  of  Pulpit 
Oratory ; 1 loefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,455 ; Brit- 
ish Quartarly  Review,  v,  387 ; N.  American  Review,  lxx, 
391;  Allibone,  Dictionary  of  Authors,  i,  791. 

Harris,  Robert,  D.D.,  a pious  and  learned  Puritan 
divine,  was  born  in  Gloucestershire,  1578,  and  was  edu- 
cated at  Magdalen  Hall,  Oxford.  He  afterwards  took 
orders,  and  obtained  the  living  of  Hanwell,  near  Ban- 
bury, Oxfordshire,  where  he  was  extremely  useful  in 
confirming  the  people’s  minds  in  the  Protestant  faith. 
On  the  commencement  of  the  Civil  War  he  removed  to 
London,  and  became  a member  of  the  Assembly  of  Di- 
vines, but  appears  to  have  taken  no  active  part  in  their 
proceedings.  He  officiated  at  the  church  of  St.Botolph, 
Bishopsgate  Street,  until  1648,  when  he  was  appointed 
president  of  Trinity  College,  which  office  he  retained 
until  his  death  in  1658.  His  works  include  The  Way 
to  True  Happiness,  in  twenty-four  sermons  on  the  Be- 
atitudes; and  A Treatise  on  the  Xew  Covenant,  which, 
with  other  writings,  were  published  in  his  Works,  re- 
vised and  collected  (Lond.  1654,  fol.). — Hook,  Eccl.  Bioy. 
v,  546. 

Harris,  Samuel,  D.D.,  “was  bom  in  the  county 
of  Middlesex  about  the  year  1683.  He  was  educated  in 
Merchant  Taylor’s  school,  of  which  he  was  head  boy  in 
1697,  and  was  admitted  a pensioner  of  Peter  House, 
Cambridge,  May  15, 1700.  Upon  the  foundation  of  the 
chair  of  Modern  History  in  the  University  of  Cambridge 
by  George  I in  1724,  Harris  was  appointed  the  first  pro- 
fessor. He  died  Dec.  21,1733.  He  was  the  author  of, 
1.  Scripture  knowledye  promoted  by  catechizing  (London, 
1712, 8vo) : — 2.  A Commentary  on  the  Fifty-third  chapter 
of  Isaiah,  with  an  appendix  of  Queries  concerning  Divers 
Ancient  Religious  Traditions  ami  Practices,  and  the  sense 
of  many  texts  of  Scripture  which  seem  to  allude  to  or  ex- 
press them  (Lond.  1735  [not  1739,  as  frequently  stated], 
4to).  In  some  copies  this  work  has  a different  title- 
page,  namely,  Observations,  Critical  ami  Miscellaneous, 
on  several  remarkable  Texts  of  the  Old  Testament,  to  which 
is  added  a Commentary,  etc.  Prefixed  are  three  disser- 
tations, 1.  On  a Gnozer  or  Advocate;  2.  On  a Dour  or 
Generation ; and,  3.  On  the  ancient  method  of  propound- 
ing important  points  by  way  of  question.  This  work 
was  published  shortly  after  the  death  of  the  author  by 
his  widow.  It  exhibits  much  curious  learning,  and  is 
several  times  referred  to  by  Doddridge  in  his  lectures.” 
— Kitto,  Cyclopcedia,  ii,  236. 

Harris,  Thaddeus  Mason,  D.D.,  a Unitarian  di- 
vine, was  bom  in  Charlestown,  Mass.,  in  1768,  graduated 
A.B.  at  Harvard  in  1787,  and  became  pastor  at  Dorches- 
ter in  1793.  He  was  librarian  of  Harvard  College  from 
1791  to  1793,  and  afterwards  librarian  of  the  Massachu- 
setts Historical  Society  till  his  death  in  1842.  His  most 
important  publication  is  a Natural  History  of  the  Bible 
(1793, 12mo;  again  in  Boston,  1821, 8vo;  also  published 
in  London,  with  additions,  under  tlie  title  Dictionary  of 
the  Natural  History  of  the  Bible , 1824 ; new  ed.  by  Con- 
dor, 1833,  12mo).  This  work  received  great  praise  for 
its  accuracy  and  utility  (see  Horne,  Bibliographical  A p- 
pendix).  Dr.  Harris  also  published  Memorials  of  the 
first  Church  in  Dorchester  (Boston,  1830,  8vo) : — Dis- 
courses on  Freemasonry  (Charlestown,  5801  [1801],8vo). 
See  Allibone,  Dictionary  of  A uthors , i,  792. 


Harris,  Walter,  D.D.,  a Congregational  minister, 
was  born  in  Lebanon,  Conn.,  in  1761.  lie  graduated  at 
Dartmouth  College  in  1787,  was  ordained  pastor  at  Dun- 
barton Aug.  26, 1789,  and  died  Dec.  25, 1843.  Dr.  Har- 
ris published  An  Address  before  the  Pastoral  Convention 
of  New  Hampshire  (1834),  and  a number  of  occasional 
sermons. — Sprague,  Annals , ii,  277. 

Harris,  William,  D.D.,  an  eminent  English  dis- 
senting divine,  is  supposed  to  have  been  bom  at  London 
about  1675.  1 le  became  pastor  of  a church  at  Crutcheil 
Friars,  London,  in  1698.  He  was  also  for  some  thirty 
years  one  of  the  preachers  of  a Friday  evening  lecture 
at  the  Weigh-house,  and  succeeded  Mr.  Tong  as  lecturer 
at  Salter’s  Hall.  He  died  in  1740.  “He  was  a con- 
cise, clear,  and  nervous  writer ; his  works  evince  a 
strong  sense  joined  to  a lively  imagination,  and  regu- 
lated with  judgment.”  lie  was  one  of  the  continuafors 
of  Matthew  Henry’s  Commentary  (those  on  Philippians 
and  Colossians).  Besides  a number  of  occasional  ser- 
mons, he  wrote  Funeral  Discourses,  in  two  Parts:  (!) 
Consolations  on  the  Death  of  our  Frieds;  (11)  Prepa- 
rationsfor  our  own  Death  (Lond.  1736, 8vo) : — The  Life 
ami  Character  of  Dr.  Thomas  Manton  (London,  1725, 
8vo) : — A practical  Illustration  of  the  Book  of  Esther 
(London,  1737,  8vo),  etc.  — Darling,  Cyclopcedia  Biblio- 
graphica,  i,  1406;  Bogue  and  Bennett,  History  of  Dis- 
senters, ii,  372. 

Harris,  William,  D.D.,  a Protestant  Episcopal 
minister,  was  born  at  Springfield,  Mass.,  and  passed  A.B. 
at  Harvard  College  in  1786.  He  was  first  licensed  as  a 
minister  in  the  Congregational  Church,  but,  on  perusing 
a compend  of  Hooker’s  Ecclesiastical  Polity,  his  mind 
and  feelings  were  drawn  to  the  Protestant  Episcopal 
Church,  in  which  he  was  .shortly  after  ordained,  lie 
then  took  charge  of  St.  Michael’s  Church,  Marblehead, 
and  in  1802  became  rector  of  St. Mark’s,  New  York.  In 
1811  he  was  chosen  president  of  Columbia  College.  In 
1816  he  resigned  his  rectorship,  and  attended  thereafter 
exclusively  to  the  presidency  of  the  college.  He  died 
Oct.  18, 1829.  He  published  several  occasional  sermons. 
— Sprague,  Annals,  v,  383. 

Harrison,  William  Henry,  D.D.,  was  born  Jan. 
12,  1819,  in  Frederick  County,  Md.  lie  entered  the 
preparatory  department  of  Pennsylvania  College  in  1838, 
and  was  graduated  in  1843  with  the  valedictory  of  bis 
class,  lie  early  developed  a taste  for  literary  research  ; 
and,  while  others  were  often  engaged  in  recreation  and 
amusement,  he  was  in  his  room  busily  engaged  in  the 
investigation  of  some  question  of  interest,  and  in  the 
acquisition  of  knowledge.  The  one  thing  in  which, 
perhaps,  he  excelled  all  others  was  the  moral  influence 
which  lie  exercised  over  his  companions.  Ilis  very 
presence,  even  when  he  kept  silent,  was  felt.  Immedi- 
ately after  his  graduation  in  college  he  commenced  his 
theological  studies  in  the  Theological  Seminary  at  Get- 
tysburg. On  their  completion  in  1845  he  was  licensed 
to  preach  the  Gospel  by  the  Synod  of  Maryland.  He 
was  elected  assistant  professor  of  ancient  languages  in 
Pennsylvania  College,  and  served  for  a season  as  general 
agent,  of  the  Parent  Education  Society.  The  following 
year  he  accepted  a call  to  the  English  Lutheran  Church 
of  Cincinnati,  as  he  felt  that  he  could  be  more  useful 
and  efficient  in  the  pastoral  work.  Here  he  labored 
with  great  success  till  his  death.  His  labors  were  un- 
wearied and  abundant.  His  life  was  regarded  as  a sac- 
rifice to  the  cause  of  humanity  and  religion.  He  died 
of  Asiatic  cholera  during  the  prevalence  of  the  epidemic 
in  Cincinnati,  Nov.  3,  1866,  and,  although  comparative- 
ly a young  man,  he  was  at  the  time  of  his  death  the  se- 
nior pastor  of  the  city.  He  was  a good  scholar,  a sound 
theologian,  and  a clear,  practical,  and  instructive  preach- 
er. He  received  the  doctorate  from  Wittenberg  Col- 
lege in  1861.  (M.  L.  S.) 

Harrow  is  the  rendering  in  the  Eng.  Vers,  of  the 
following  Hebrew  words:  charits'  (lit.  a cutting , 

hence  a slice  of  curdled  milk,  “ cheese,”  1 sam.  xvii,  18), 


90 


HART 


HARSA 

a tribulum  or  threshing  (q.v.)  sledge  (2  Sam.  xii.31 ; 1 
Cliron.  xx,  3);  elsewhere  only  the  verb  sadad' 

(lit  to  level  off),  to  harrow  a field  (Job  xxxix,  10;  break 
the  clods."  Isa.  xxviii,  4 ; Hos.  x,  11).  See  lvitto,  Daily 
Dibit  Jllust.  iii,  39,  vi,  397.  The  form  of  the  ancient 


Hebrew  harrow,  if  any  instrument  properly  correspond- 
ing to  this  term  existed,  is  unknown.  Probably  it  was, 
as  still  in  Egypt  (Niebuhr,  Trav.  i,  151), merely  aboard, 
which  was  dragged  over  the  fields  to  level  the  lumps. 
Among  the  Homans  it  consisted  of  a hurtle  (crates)  of 
rods  with  teeth  (Pliny,  xviii,  43;  comp.  Virg.  Georg,  i, 
94).  See  generally  Ugolini,  Comm,  de  re  rustiea  reft. 
JJebr.  v,  21  (in  his  Thesaur.  xxix,  p.  332  sq.)  ; Paulsen, 
A (herb.  p.  96. — Winer,  ii,  290.  “ In  modern  Palestine, 

oxen  are  sometimes  turned  in  to  trample  the  clods,  and 
in  some  parts  of  Asia  a bush  of  thorns  is  dragged  over 
the  surface;  but  all  these  processes,  if  used,  occur  (not 
after,  but)  before  the  seed  is  committed  to  the  soil” 
(Smith,  s.  v.).  See  Agriculture. 

Harsa.  -See  Tel-Hahsa. 

Har'sha  (Ileb.  Charsha',  a Chaldaizing  form, 

worker  or  enchanter;  Sept.  ‘Apod  and  'Ataodv),  one  of 
the  Ncthinim  whose  descendants  (or  rather,  perhaps,  a 
1 >1  ace  whose  inhabitants)  returned  from  Babylon  with 
Zcrnbl label  (Ezra  ii,  52;  Nell,  vii,  54).  B.  C.  ante  536. 
Schwarz  (Palest,  p.  116)  thinks  it  maybe  identical  with 
the  ruins  called  by  the  Arabs  Charsha  (on. Zimmerman’s 
map,  Khuras),  situated  south  of  wady  Sur,  about  half 
way  between  Beit-Jibrin  (Elcuthcropolis)  on  the  W., 
and  Jcdnr  (tledor)  on  the  E. 

Harsnet:,  Samuel,  archbishop  of  York,  was  bom  at 
Colchester  in  1561;  was  educated  as  a sizer  at  King’s 
t ’ol’.ege,  ( ’ambridge ; and  was  subsequently  elected  fel- 
low of  Pembroke  Hall.  In  15X0  he  took  the  degree  of 
B.A.,  and  in  15X4  that  ofM.A.  He  then  applied  him- 
self to  theology,  in  which  he  soon  made  his  mark  by  a 
sermon  preached  in  15X4  at  St.  Paul’s  Cross  (first  printed 
at  the  end  of  three  of  Dr.  Stewart’s  sermons  in  165X), 
in  which  he  boldly  attacked  the  doctrine  of  uncondi- 
tional predestination,  then  to  some  extent  prevailing  in 
the  ( ’hurch  of  England.  He  became  successively  proc- 
tor of  the  university  in  1592,  vicar  of  < "'higwell,  in  Es- 
sex, in  1595,  and  archdeacon  of  Essex  in  iti02,  but  re- 
signed all  these  offices  on  being  appointed  rector  of 
siionlicld,  in  Essex,  and  of  St.  Margaret's,  New  Kish 
Street,  Loudon,  in  1604.  He  became  master  of  Pem- 
broke College  in  1605,  and  bishop  of  Chichester  in  1609. 
He  was  translated  to  Norwich  in  1619.  While  in  the 
latter  see,  the  Dissenters  prevailing  in  the  House  of 
(’ominous,  he  was  accused  before  the  last  Parliament  of 
James  I of  several  misdemeanors,  and  of  Humanist  ten- 
dencies. He  made  a defense,  in  which,  among*  other 
points,  he  says  “ that  popery  is  a fire  that  never  will  be 
quiet ; he  had  preached  a thousand  sermons,  and  noth- 
ing of  popery  ran  he  imputed  to  him  out  of  any  of  them. 
That  there  were  divers  obstacles  to  keep  him  from 
popery:  among  them,  the  usurpation  of  the  pope  of 


Home;  their  religion  dyed  in  blood;  their  juggling  and 
feigned  miracles,  of  which  he  wrote  a book  against 
them,  and  their  equivocations.”  . lie  concluded  by  pro- 
claiming that  in  his  view  the  Church  of  England  came 
nearest  to  the  primitive  Church,  and  that  its  principles 
w ere  not  derived  from 
Wiekliff,  IIuss,  or  Lu- 
ther, but  from  the  four 
first  centuries  after 
Christ.  This  defense 
was  considered  valid, 
and  in  1628  Dr.  Harsnet 
was  translated  lo  the 
archbishopric  of  York. 
He  died  in  May,  1631. 
Among  his  works  we 
notice  A Discovery  of 
the  fraudulent  Practices 
of  John  Darrell , Bach- 
elor of  A rts,  etc.  (Lond. 
1599,  4 to)  : — Declara- 
tion of  egregious  Popish 
Impostures,  etc.  (Lond. 
1603,  4to),  against  an 
exorcist  named  Edmonds,  alias  Weston,  a Jesuit.  See 
Collier,  Eccles.  History ; Strype,  Memorials ; Biog.Erit. ; 
Hook,  Eccles.  Biography , v,  546  sq. 

Hart  (b*X,  ayal',  always  masc.,  but  in  Psa.  xlii,  1, 
joined  with  a fem.  noun  to  denote  a hind),  a stag  or  male 
deer,  but  used  by  the  Hebrews  also  to  denote  all  the  va- 
rious species  of  deer  and  antelopes,  which  resemble  large 
rams.  See  Deer.  The  hart  is  reckoned  among  the 
clean  animals  (Dcut.xii,  15;  xiv,  5;  xv,  22),  and  seems, 
from  the  passages  quoted,  as  well  as  from  1 Kings  iv, 
23,  to  have  been  commonly  killed  for  food.  Its  activity 
furnishes  an  apt  comparison  in  Isa.  xxxv,  6,  though  iu 
this  respect  the  hind  was  more  commonly  selected  by  the 
sacred  writers.  The  proper  name  Ajalon  is  derived  from 
ayal,  and  implies  that  harts  were  numerous  in  the  neigh- 
borhood. See  Coat.  The  Hcb.  mase.  noun  ayal,  which 
is  always  rendered  iXaepog  by  the  Sept.,  denotes,  there 
can  be  no  doubt,  some  species  of  Cerrida  (deer  tribe), 
either  the  Damn  vulgaris,  fallow-deer,  or  the  Cerrus 
Barbarus,  the  Barbary  deer,  the  southern  representative 
of  the  European  stag  (C.  elaphus).  which  occurs  in  Tu- 
nis and  the  coast  of  Barbary.  We  have,  however,  no 
evidence  that  the  Barbary  deer  ever  inhabited  Pales- 
tine, though  it  ma}'  have  done  so  in  primitive  times. 


IIART 


91 


HARTLEY 


Hasselquist  ( Trav . p.  211)  observed  the  fallow-deer  on 
Mount  Tabor.  Sir  G.  Wilkinson  says  (.1  nc.  Egypt,  i, 
227.  abridgm.),  “The  stag  with  branching  horns  figured 
at  lieni  Hassan  is  also  unknown  in  the  valley  of  the 
Nile,  but  it  is  still  seen  in  the.  vicinity  of  the  natron 
lakes,  as  about  Tunis,  though  not  in  the  desert  between 
the  river  and  the  Bed  Sea.”  This  is  doubtless  the  Ger- 
ms Barb arus.  See  Stag.  ■ 

Most  of  the  deer  tribe  are  careful  to  conceal  their 
calves  after  birth  for  a time.  May  there  not  be  some 
allusion  to  this  circumstance  in  Job  xxxix,  1,  “Canst 
thou  mark  when  the  hinds  do  calve?”  etc.  Perhaps, 
as  the  Sept,  uniformly  renders  a gal  by  i\a<poc,  we  may 
incline  to  the  belief  that  the  Cervus  Barbanis  is  the 
deer  denoted.  The  feminine  noun  ugriluh , oc- 

curs frequently  .in  the  O.  T. — Smith,  s.  v.  See  Hind. 

Hart,  Levi.  D.D..  a Congregational  minister,  was 
born  April  10,  1738,  at  Southington,  Conn.  He  gradu- 
ated at  Yale  College  in  1700,  studied  under  Dr.  Bellamy, 
was  licensed  June  2,  1761,  and  was  ordained  pastor  .at 
Griswold,  Conn.,  Nov.  4, 1702,  where  he  labored  until  his 
death,  Oct.  27,  1808.  During  his  long  career  as  pastor 
he  trained  many  young  men  for  the  ministry.  In  1784 
he  was  made  a member  of  Dartmouth  College  Corpora- 
tion, and  of  Yale  in  1791.  He  published  several  occa- 
sional sermons. — Sprague,  A mulls,  i,  590. 

Halt,  Oliver,  a Baptist  minister,  was  born  in  War- 
minster, Pa.,  July  5, 1723,  joined  the  Baptist  Church  in 
1741,  was  licensed  to  preach  in  174G,  and  was  ordained 
in  1749.  In  that  year  lie  became  pastor  of  the  Baptist 
church  in  Charleston,  S.  C.,  and  remained  in  that  office 
thirty  years,  with  eminent  success  both  as  preacher  and 
pastor.  In  the  Revolution  he  espoused  the  Whig  cause 
with  great  ardor,  and  had  to  flee  from  Charleston  in  1780 
to  avoid  falling  into  the  hands  of  the  British.  He  set- 
tled as  pastor  of  the  Baptist  Church  at  Hopewell,  N.  J., 
where  he  died  Dec.  31, 1795.  He  published  a Discourse 
on  the  Death  of  IP.  Tennent: — Dancing  Exploded: — The 
Christian  Temple: — J Gospel  Church  portrayed. — Bene- 
dict, Ilist.  of  the  Baptists,  vol.  ii ; Sprague,  Annals,  vi,  47. 

Hartley,  David,  an  English  practitioner  of  medi- 
cine, and  a philosopher  of  considerable,  but  transitory 
reputation.  The  Scotch  school  of  metaphysics  borrow- 
ed much  from  his  conclusions;  and  the  long-prevalent 
theory'  of  Beauty,  which  was  elaborated  in  Alison’s 
Principles  of  Taste,  derived  from  them  its  cardinal  doc- 
trines. Dr.  Hartley  occupies  a notable  position  in  the 
history  of  speculation  on  other  grounds.  He  presented 
a curious  example  of  the  partial  conciliation  of  Des 
Cartes,  Newton,  and  Locke;  he  inaugurated  the  impulse 
which  transmuted  the  system  of  the  last  of  these  great 
men  into  the  materialism  of  the  French  Encgclnpcedia  ; 
he  preceded  Bonnet,  of  Geneva,  in  applying  physiolog- 
ical observation  to  psychological  discussion,  and  thus 
became  the  precursor  ofCabanis  and  Broussais,  of  Mole- 
schott  and  Huxley.  He  was  contemporary  with  Col- 
lier, and  Berkeley,  and  Hume,  and  Reid.  While  the 
two  tirst  were  undermining  the  philosophy  of  Locke  by 
questioning  the  credibility  of  the  senses,  and  Hume  was 
achieving  a similar  result  by  impugning  the  evidences 
of  consciousness,  to  be  imperfectly  refuted  by  Reid’s 
exaggeration  of  the  reliability  of  external  perception, 
Hartley  was  still  further  invalidating  the  authority  of 
Locke  by  proposing  a purelj'  mechanical  explanation  of 
the  processes  of  thought.  He  is  thus  even  more  note- 
worthy for  his  relations  to  the  revolutions  of  opinion  in 
the  18th  century  than  for  the  positive  additions  he  is 
supposed  to  have  made  to  the  science  of  the  human 
mind.  He  was  one  of  the  dominant  spirits  of  that  agi- 
tation of  the  intellectual  waters  which  heralded  and 
produced  the  political  convulsions  of  the  last  century. 
At  the  same  time,  he  is  the  link  between  widely  sepa- 
rated dogmas:  furnishing  a bond  between  Des  Cartes 
and  Stewart ; connecting  Locke  with  Condillac  and 
French  sensationalism;  reviving  neglected  positions  of 


Aristotle,  and  prefiguring  many  of  the  latest  manifesta- 
tions of  scientific  materialism. 

Life. — The  biography  of  Dr.  Hartley  is  singularly 
devoid  of  salient  incidents  and  of  general  interest,  lie 
belonged  to  that  numerous  class  of  very  worthy  men 
who  run  their  eminently  useful  career  without  experi- 
encing or  occasioning  violent  excitement  of  any  kind. 
But  for  his  philosophical  productions,  his  epitaph  might 
have  been  I T icons  moriensqnc  fefellit.  He  was  the  son 
of  a respectable  clergyman,  and  was  bom  Aug.  30, 1705, 
at  Armley,  Yorkshire,  of  which  parish  his  father  was 
vicar.  He  completed  his  education  at  Jesus  College, 
Cambridge,  and  was  designed  for  the  paternal  vocation. 
But  he  was  induced  to  divert  his  attention  to  medicine, 
in  consequence  of  scruples  about  subscribing  the  XXX IX 
Articles,  for  religious  opinion  within  the  bosom  of  the 
Anglican  Church  was  much  divided  at  the  time  by  the 
recent  issues  of  the  “ Bangor i an  Controversy.”  llis 
experience  was  frequently  repeated  in  other  cases  in  the 
ensuing  years.  lie  retained,  however,  the  fervent  but 
simple  piety  appropriate  to  his  meditated  profession, 
and  never  withdrew  his  interest  from  the  subjects  which 
attract  the  intelligent  theologian.  He  informs  us  that 
the  seeds  of  his  own  doctrine  began  to  germinate  when 
he  was  twenty-five  years  of  age,  though  their  elabora- 
tion was  not  completed  till  lie  was  more  than  forty. 
His  views  were  given  to  the  world  in  1749,  in  a work 
entitled  Observations  on  Man,  his  Frame,  his  Duties,  his 
Expectations,  lie  survived  its  publication  about  eight 
years,  and  died  at  Bath  Aug.  28,  1757,  when  within  a 
fortnight  of  completing  his  fifty-third  year,  llis  life 
had  been  expended  in  the  diligent  and  kindly  pursuit  of 
his  calling  at  Newark,  Bury  St.  Edmund’s,  London,  and 
Bath. 

Mackintosh  and  Coleridge,  while  presenting  diverse 
views  of  Hartley’s  doctrine,  arc  lavish  of.  encomiums 
upon  his  virtues  and  purity  of  character.  A very  brief 
and  very  dry  biography  was  composed  by  his  son,  with 
filial  regard  and  quaint  delineation.  A few  fragments 
from  this  recondite  production  will  present  the  philoso- 
pher “in  the  habit  and  manner  as  he  lived.”  “llis 
person  was  of  middle  size,  and  well  proportioned.  His 
complexion  fair,  his  features  regular  and  handsome. 
His  countenance  open,  ingenuous,  and  animated.  He 
was  peculiarly  neat  in  person  and  attire.  He  lived  in 
personal  intimacy  with  the  learned  men  of  his  age,” 
among  whom  are  enumerated  Law,  bishop  of  Carlisle ; 
Butler,  bishop  of  Durham;  Warburt  on,  bishop  of  Glouces- 
ter; Hoadlev,  successively  bishop  of  Bangor,  Hereford, 
and  Winchester;  Pope  and  Young;  Dr.  Jortin  and  Dr. 
Byrom ; Hawkins,  Browne,  and  Hooke,  the  forgotten 
historian  of  Rome.  The  list  is  sufficiently  heterogene- 
ous. “His  mind  was  formed  to  benevolence  and  uni- 
versal philanthropy.  His  genius  was  penetrating  and 
active,  his  industry  indefatigable,  his  philosophical  ob- 
servations and  attentions  unremitting.  llis  natural 
temper  was  gay,  cheerful,  and  sociable.  He  was  ad- 
dicted to  no  vice  in  any  part  of  his  life,  neither  to  pride, 
nor  to  sensuality,  nor  intemperance,  nor  ostentation,  nor 
envy,  nor  to  any  sordid  self-interest ; but  his  heart  was 
replete,  with  every  contrary  virtue.” 

Philosophy. — Hartley  neither  proclaimed  nor  pro- 
duced any  scheme  of  speculation,  nor  did  he  pretend 
that  his  views  were  characterized  by  any  marked  de- 
gree of  originality,  lie  investigated  and  endeavored 
to  explain  certain  phenomena  of  the  human  mind,  and 
to  discover  the  machinery  of  thought.  He  has  be- 
queathed a doctrine  which  has  been  in  part  generally 
adopted,  and  which  has  been  frequently  exaggerated 
by  admirers  who  have  repudiated,  ignored,  or  been  ig- 
norant of  the  characteristic  ground-work  on  which  it 
had  been  erected.  The  source  and  filiation  of  his  tenets 
have  been  indicated  by  him  with  what  Sir  James  Mack- 
intosh conceives  to  have  been  extravagant  generosity. 
Hartley’s  acknowledgments  are.  hov'ever,  made  in  igno- 
rance of  his  much  larger,  but  more  remote  obligations 
to  Aristotle.  “About  eighteen  years  ago,”  says  he,  in 


92 


HARTWIG 


HARTLEY 

the  preface  of  his  work,  “ I was  informed  that  the  Rev. 
Mr.  (Jay,  then  living,  asserted  the  possibility  of  deduc- 
ing all  our  intellectual  pleasures  and  pains  from  associa- 
tion. This  put  me  upon  considering  the  power  of  asso- 
ciation. Hv  degrees  many  disquisitions  foreign  to  the 
doctrine  of  association,  or,  at  least,  not  immediately 
connected  with  it,  intermixed  themselves.”  “ I think, 
however,  that  I cannot  be  called  a system  maker,  since 
I did  not  first  form  a system,  and  then  suit  the  facts  to 
if.  but  was  carried  on  by  a train  of  thoughts  from  one 
thing  to  another,  frequently  without  any  express  de- 
sign, or  even  any  previous  suspicion  of  the  consequences 
that  might  arise.”  Assuredly  this  is  neither  a syste- 
matic nor  a philosophical  method  of  procedure.  But 
this  easy  disagation  of  thought  explains  the  instability, 
want  of  consistency,  and  partial  incoherence  of  Hart- 
ley’s speculations.  ” It  also  explains  the  facility  and  mi- 
suspected  inconsequence  with  which  a portion  of  the 
doctrine  has  been  separated  from  its  accompaniments  for 
special  acceptance  and  development. 

The  characteristic  tenets  of  Hartley  have  been  very 
clearly  and  concisely  stated  by  Morell.  “The  objects 
of  the  external  world  affect  in  some  manner  the  extreme 
ends  of  the  nerves,  which  spread  from  the  brain  as  a 
centre  to  every  part  of  the  body.  This  affection  pro- 
duces a vibration,  which  is  continued  along  the  nerve 
by  the  agency  of  an  clastic  ether  until  it  reaches  the 
brain,  where  it  produces  the  phenomenon  we  term  sen- 
sation. When  a sensation  has  been  experienced  several 
times,  the  vibratory  movement  from  which  it  arises  ac- 
quires the  tendency  to  repeat  itself  spontaneously,  even 
when  the  external  object  is  not  present.  These  repeti- 
tions, or  relics  of  sensation,  are  ideas,  which  in  their 
turn  possess  the  property  of  recalling  each  other  by  vir- 
tue of  mutual  association  among  themselves 

The  subordinate  effects  of  these  principles  are  easy  to 
he  imagined.  If  all  our  ideas  are  but  relics  of  sensa- 
tions, and  all  excited  spontaneously  by  the  laws  of  asso- 
ciation, it  is  abundantly  evident  that  the  power  of  the 
will  must  l>e  a nonentity,  that  man  can  really  have  no 
control  of  his  own  mind,  that  he  is  the  creature  of  irre- 
sistible necessity.  Hartley  was  accordingly  a firm  nec- 
essarian. Another  natural  effect  of  the  theory  of  vibra- 
tions is  materialism.”  The  pernicious  consequences  of 
their  dogmas  are  perspicaciously  displayed  by  Coleridge, 
who  had  at  one  time  been  so  devoted  to  their  teachings 
that  he  bestowed  the  name  of  their  author  upon  his  son, 
Hartley  Coleridge. 

In  this  speculation  there  are  three  distinct  but  inti- 
mately connected  doctrines.  1.  The  theory  of  the  asso- 
ciation of  ideas.  2.  The  physiological  and  physical 
mode  of  accounting  for  this  association  and  for  percep- 
tion by  the  vibrations  of  an  elastic  ether  through  the 
medullary  substance  of  the  nerves.  3.  The  assertion  of 
the  necessity  of  human  actions.  The  last  of  these  con- 
nects itself  with  the  optimism  of  Leibnitz  and  the  fatal- 
ism of  Spinoza,  through  King’s  Origin  of  Evil.  The 
second  dogma  was  early  abandoned,  at  least  in  the  form 
in  which  it  was  presented  by  this  author.  It  was  not 
entirely  novel,  but  it  was  the  most  original  portion  of 
Hartley’s  labors,  and  through  it  he  mainly  influenced 
the  development  of  the  French  philosophy.  It  was 
suggested  hv  one  of  the  queries  in  Newton’s  Optics,  and 
may  lie'  traced  through  the  animal  spirits  of  Locke  and 
1 >es  Cartes,  and  the  vortices  and  elastic  ether  of  Des 
Cartes  to  the  earlier  philosophers,  and  up  to  Epicurus 
and  Leucippus.  It  may  merit  renewed  consideration  if 
the  physiological  psychology  now  in  prospect  should 
gain  acceptance.  The  doctrine  of  Association  is  re- 
garded as  being  peculiarly  Hartley’s  own.  It  was  not 
altogether  novel : he  himself  ascribes  its  first  suggestion 
to  (lay.  It  is  presupposed  in  many  suggestions  of 
Ixicke,  and  is  descended  from  a more  remote  and  illus- 
trious ancestry,  which  runs  hack  to  the  Stagvrite — the 
reputed  fountain  of  so  much  error,  the  father  of  so  much 
wisdom.  It.  received,  however,  such  an  ingenious  and 
extensive  development  from  Hartley  that  Sir  James 


Mackintosh  rightly  disregards  the  claims  of  Gay,  but 
wrongly  neglects  earlier  obligations.  It  is  largely  in- 
corporated into  recent  schemes  of  metaphysics,  ethics, 
and  aesthetics,  hut  severed  from  the  mechanical  hypoth- 
esis which  gave  it  its  chief  originality  and  its  distinc- 
tive complexion.  In  this  mutilated  form  it  possesses 
unquestionable  truth;  hut  still  it  is  only  an  imperfect 
explanation  of  a limited  class  of  mental  and  moral  phe- 
nomena, and  is  easily  pressed,  as  it  has  often  been  push- 
ed, to  absurd  and  hazardous  conclusions.  Coleridge  has 
forcibly  signalized  its  dangers,  and  has  declared  that, 
wherever  it  deviates  from  the  simpler  exposition  of  Aris- 
totle, it  declines  into  error  and  immoral  courses. 

Literature. — Hartley,  Observations  on  Man , his  Frame , 
his  Duty,  his  Expectations,  with  Notes  and  Additions  by 
Herman  Andrew  Pistorius  (Lond.  1 791 , 3 vols.  8vo).  An 
abridgment  of  the  original  edition  had  been  published  by 
Dr.  Priestley  (Lond.  1775),  with  the  omission  of  the  doc- 
trine of  vibrations  and  vibratiuncules.  It  is  from  this 
mutilated  presentment  that  the  theory  of  Association 
has  been  principally  derived.  Hume,  Inquiry  concern- 
ing the  Human  Understanding,  sec.  ii-vii ; Reid,  On  the 
Intellectual  Powers,  Essay  ii,  eh.  iii,  ed.  Hamilton — un- 
fortunately, .Sir  William  never  supplied  the  notes  to 
Reid,  which  lie  indicates  by  numbers:  Mackintosh,  On 
the  Progress  of  Ethical  Philosophy ; Dugald  Stewart, 
On  the  Progress  of  Metaphysical,  Ethical,  and  Political 
Philosophy  (Philosophical  Essays,  IForfo,  edit.  Sir  W. 
Hamilton) ; Coleridge,  Biographia  Liter  aria,  cli.  v-vii ; 
Morell,  IIist07-y  of  Modern  Philosophy.  (G.  F.  II.) 

Hartlib,  Samuel,  an  English  writer  of  the  17th 
century,  was  horn  of  Polish  Protestant  parents.  He 
came  to  England  about  1G40,  took  an  active  part  in  the 
theological  questions  of  the  day,  and  endeavored  to 
bring  about  a union  of  the  different  churches.  He  af- 
terwards devoted  himself  to  the  improvement  of  agri- 
culture, etc.  Having  spent  all  his  fortune  in  these  at- 
tempts, he  received  from  Cromwell  a pension  of  £300, 
which  was  suppressed  at  the  Restoration.  He  spent  the 
latter  part  of  Iris  life  in  retirement,  and  perhaps  in  want. 
The  exact  time  of  his  death  is  unknown.  lie  wrote  A 
Relation  of  that  which  hath  been  lately  attempted  to  pro- 
cure Ecclesiastical  Peace  among  Protestants  (Lond.  1041) : 
— Considerations  concerning  England's  Reformation  in 
Church  and  State  (1647,  4to)  : — Tu-isse's  doubting  con- 
science  resolved  (1652,  8vo) ; some  works  on  Husbandry, 
etc.  Milton  addressed  his  Essay  oti  Education  to  Hart- 
lib.  See  Gentleman's  Magazine,  Ixxii ; Censura  litera- 
ria,  vol.  iii ; Chalmers,  General  Biographical  Diction- 
ary. 

Hartmann,  Anton  Tiikodor,  a German  Protestant 
theologian  and  Orientalist,  was  hom  at  Ditsseldorf  June 
25,1774.  He  studied  at  Osnabruck,  Dortmund,  and  Got- 
tingen. After  being  successively  co-reetor  of  the  gymna- 
sium of  S«?st  in  1797,  rector  of  the  gymnasium  of  Iler- 
ford  in  1799,  and  professor  in  that  of  Oldenburg  in  1804, 
he  was  appointed  professor  of  theology  in  the  Universi- 
ty of  Rostock  in  1811.  He  died  at  Rostock  April  21, 
1838.  He  is  especially  known  for  his  works  oil  antiqui- 
ties, and  on  Hebrew  and  Arabic  literature,  the  principal 
of  which  are  Aufklarung  u.Asien  f Bibelforscher  (Ol- 
denburg, 1806-7, 2 vols.  8vo)  : — Die  llebraerin  am  Putz- 
tische  n.  als  Brant  (Amst.  1809-1810,  3 vols.  8vo)  -.—Sup- 
plement a ael  J.Buxtorfii  et  IF.  Gesenii  Lexic,  (Rostock, 
1813,  4to)  : — Theseniri  Linguee  Ilebraicee  e Michna  au - 
gendi  (Rostock,  1825-1826,  3 parts,  4to)  : — Linguistische 
Einleitung  in  d.  Studium  der  Biicher  des  A.  T.  (Rostock, 
1*18, 8vo) : — llist.Krit.  Forschungen  iiber  die  Bildung,d. 
Zeitedter  u.  Plan  d.fiiif  Biicher  Moses  (Rostock  et  Gus- 
trow,  1831,  8vo) : — Die  enge  Verbimlung  d.  A.  T.  mit  d. 
N.  (llamh.  183],  8vo) : — Bliclce  in  d.  Geist  d.  Crchristen - 
thums  (Dusseldorf,  1802,  8vo).  See  Haag,  La  France 
Protest einte ; H oefer,  Nour.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,474. 

Hartwig,  John  Christopher,  came  to  America  as 
chaplain  to  a German  regiment  in  the  service  of  Eng- 
land during  the  first  French  war,  as  it  is  called.  He 


HARUM 


93 


HARVEST 


was  a member  of  the  first  Lutheran  synod  held  in  this 
country  in  1 748.  His  first  regular  charge  combined  sev- 
eral congregations  in  Hunterdon  Co.,  N.  J.  He  labored 
for  a brief  period  in  Pennsylvania,  but  the  larger  portion 
of  his  ministry  was  spent  in  the  state  of  New  York. 
He  died  in  1796.  The  manner  of  his  death  furnishes  a 
remarkable  instance  of  the  power  of  the  imagination. 
Forty  years  before,  the  impression  from  a dream  on  his 
birthday,  that  he  would  live  just  forty  years  longer,  had 
become  so  strong  that  he  felt  persuaded  the  dream  would 
be  fulfilled,  and  his  life  protracted  to  the  close  of  his 
eightieth  year.  On  the  day  preceding  its  completion 
he  came  to  the  residence  of  the  Hon.  J.  It.  Livingston, 
and  announced  that  he  had  come  to  his  house  to  die. 
In  the  evening  he  conducted  the  family  devotions,  and 
the  next  morning  arose  in  apparent  health.  He  break- 
fasted with  the  family,  and  entered  freely  into  conver- 
sation until  the  approach  of  the  hour,  as  he  supposed, 
for  his  departure,  II  o’clock  A.M.  A few  minutes  before 
the  time,  he  requested  permission  to  retire.  Mr.  Liv- 
ingston, unobserved  by  him,  followed,  and  noticed  that 
he  was  undressing.  Just  as  the  clock  tolled  the  hour, 
he  was  in  the  act  of  removing  the  stock  from  the  neck ; 
at  that  moment  he  fell  back  and  expired.  Notwith- 
standing his  eccentricities, he  possessed  manynoble  qual- 
ities, and  his  name  will  ever  be  associated  with  the  in- 
stitution in  Otsego  Co.,  N.Y., which  bears  his  name,  and 
of  which  he  may  be  said  to  be  the  founder.  The  tract 
of  land  he  received  for  his.  services  as  chaplain  he  be- 
queathed principally  for  the  establishment  of  a theolog- 
ical and  missionary  institution  for  the  instruction  of  pi- 
ous young  men  for  the  Lutheran  ministry,  and  for  the 
education  of  Indians  in  the  Christian  religion  as  mis- 
sionaries among  their  own  tribes.  (M.  L.  S.) 

Ha'rum  (Heb.  Ilarum',  elevated ; Sept.  ’ la- 

ps’) fi),  the  father  of  Aharhel,  the  “ families”  of  which  lat- 
ter are  enumerated  among  the  posterity  of  Coz,  of  the 
tribe  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  iv,  8).  B.C.  post  1612. 

Haru'maph  (Ileb.  Chanmaph',  snub-nosed; 

Sept.  ’E ou}jia<p  v.  r.  ’Eow/idS),  “ father”  of  Jedaiah, which 
latter  was  one  of  the  priests  who  repaired  part  of  the 
walls  of  Jerusalem  (Neh.  iii,  10).  B.C.  ante  446. 

Ha'ruphite  (Heb.  Chaniphi',  ")2>nn,with  the  art.; 
for  which  the  Masoretic  margin  more  correctly  reads 
‘'B’nn,  / lariphife ; Sept.  ‘Apovtpi  v.  r.  Xapi<pu)\,  Vtilg. 
Ifaruphites ),  an  epithet  of  Shephatiah,  one  of  the  brave 
adventurers  who  joined  David  at  Ziklag  (1  Chron.  xii, 
5) ; so  called,  probably,  as  being  a native  of  IIariph. 
“ Josabad  the  Gederathite,”  of  the  preceding  verse,  was 
probably  from  the  same  place ; and  as  he  was  so  called 


from  being  a resident  of  Gedor  (q.  v.),  it  would  seem 
that  the  epithet  “ llaruphite”  was  an  equivalent  one,  as 
a descendant  from  Hareph  (q.  v.),  the  founder  of  Geder 
(1  Chron.  ii,  51). 

Ha'ruz  (Heb.  Charnts',  eager,  as  in  Prov.  xii, 

27,  etc.;  Sept.  ’Aponf),  a citizen  of  Jotbah,  and  father 
of  Meshullemeth,  who  became  the  wife  of  king  Manas- 
seh,  and  mother  of  king  Amon  (2  Kings  xxi,  19).  B.C. 
ante  664. 

Harvard,  John,  founder  of  Harvard  College,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  was  born  in  England,  studied  at  Emanuel 
College,  Cambridge,  where  he  became  A.M.  in  1635,  and 
entered  into  the  ministry  among  the  Dissenters.  Emi- 
grating to  America,  he  became  pastor  of  a Congrega- 
tional society  at  Charlestown,  Mass.,  where  he  preached 
but  a short  time,  and  died  Sept.  14, 1638.  In  his  will 
he  left  a legacy  of  nearly  T8(J0  to  the  high-school  of 
Cambridge.  This  bequest  laid  the  foundation  of  the 
college,  to  which  the  trustees  gave  the  name  of  its  bene- 
factor. 

Harvest  ("l^-Sp,  katsir',  i.  e.  reaping ; Sepia poc), 
the  season  of  gathering  grain  or  fruits.  In  general,  this 
fell,  as  now  in  Palestine,  in  the  middle  of  April  or  Abib 
(John  iv,  35),  although  in  many  parts,  e.  g.  at  Jericho 
(whose  inhabitants  were  the  first  to  present  the  first- 
fruits,  Mislina,  Pesach , iv,  8),  it  began  as  early  as  March 
(Shaw,  Trav.  p.  291).  (See  Gerdes,  De  tempore  messis 
Hebrceoram,  Utrecht,  1720.)  Dr.  Robinson  says:  “On 
the  4th  and  5th  of  June,  the  people  of  Hebron  were  just 
beginning  to  gather  their  wheat;  on  the  11th  and  12th, 
the  threshing-floors  on  the  Mount  of  Olives  were  in  full 
operation.  We  had  already  seen  the  harvest  in  the 
same  state  of  progress  on  the  plains  of  Gaza  on  the  19th 
of  Slay;  while  at  Jericho, on  the  12th  of  May, the  thresh- 
ing-floors had  nearly  completed  their  work”  (Bib.  Res.  ii, 
99, 100).  On  the  sixteenth  day  of  the  first  month,  Abib 
or  Nisan  (Josephus,  A nt.  iii,  10, 5),  a handful  of  ripe  ears 
was  offered  before  the  Lord  as  the  first-fruits;  after 
which  it  was  lawful  to  put  the  sickle  to  the  corn  (Lev. 
xxiii,  9-14).  (See  Schramm,  De  manijndo  hordeaeeo, 
Frckft.  a.  0. 1706.)  The  harvest  is  described  as  begin- 
ning with  the  barley,  and  with  the  festival  of  the  Pass- 
over  (Lev.  xxiii,  9-14;  2 Sam.  xxi,  9,  10;  Ruth  ii,  23), 
and  ending  with  the  wheat  (Gcn.xxx,14;  Exod.xxxiv, 
22),  and  with  the  festival  of  Pentecost  (Exod.  xxiii,  16). 
(See  Otho,  Lex.  Rabb.  p.  684.)  In  the  most  ancient 
times  the  corn  was  plucked  up  by  the  roots.  When  the 
sickle  was  used,  the  wheat  was  either  cropped  olf  under 
the  ear,  or  cut  close  to  the  ground;  in  the  former  case, 
the  straw  was  afterwards  plucked  up  for  use ; in  the  lat- 
ter, the  stubble  was  left  and  burnt  on  the  ground  for 


Ancient  Egyptian  Harvest  scene.  (From  Wilkinson.) 

Fig.  1.  The  steward.  2, 3.  Reapers.  5.  A woman  gleaner.  6,  enrrying  the  wheat  in  the  nsnal  rope  net.  7.  The  Irilura.  9.  Winnowers,  11,  The 
ecribe.  13, 14,  carrying' the  grain  to  the  granary  in  sacks. 


HASENUAH 


IIAPAVOOD  9 

manure  (Isa.  xvii,  5 ; Job  xxiv,  24).  The  sheaves  were 
collected  into  a heap,  or  removed  to  the  thresdiing-floor 
((len.  xxxvii, 7 ; Lev.  xxiii,  10-13;  Until  ii.  <-15;  Job! 
xxiv,  10,  Jer.  ix,  22;  Mic.  iv,  12;  Amos  ii,  13).  In  j 
Palestine  at  the  present  day,  the  grain  is  not  bound  into 
sheaves,  but  is  gathered  into  two  large  Inuulles,  which 
are  carried  home  on  either  side  of  the  backs  of  animals 
(Thomson,  Land  and  Book,  ii,  323).  The  reapers  were  , 
the  owners  and  their  children,  and  men  and  women 
servants  (Until  ii,  4, 8,  21, 23 ; John  iv,  36;  James  v,  4). 
Refreshments  were  provided  for  them,  especially  drink, 
of  which  the  gleaners  wore  often  allowed  to  partake 
(Ruth  ii,  1)) ; so  in  the  Egyptian  scenes  we  see  reapers 
drinking,  and  the  gleaners  applying  to  share  the  draught. 
The  time  of  harvest  was  a season  of  very  great  enjoy- 
ment, especially  when  the  crops  had  been  plentiful  (Psa. 
exxvi.  1 6 ; Isa.  ix,  3).  The  harvest  in  Scripture  is  like- 
wise put  for  a time  of  destruction  (Hop.  vi,  11),  according 
to  Newcome;  but,  according  to  Horsley,  for  a time  of 
morn/.  Of  the  former  sense  there  is  an  example  in  Jer. 
Ii,  33,  plainly  referring  to  the  judgments  of  God  upon 
Babylon.  So  in  the  oracle  concerning  Damascus  (Isa. 
xvii,  5),  as  Lowth  observes,  the  king  of  Assyria  shall 
sweep  away  the  whole  body  of  the  people,  as  the  reap- 
er strips  off  the  whole  crop  of  com,  and  the  remnant 
shall  he  no  more  in  proportion  than  the  scattered  ears 
left  to  the  gleaner.  In  Joel  iii,  13,  the  last  words  ex- 
plain the  figurative  language  which  precedes : they  are 
ripe  for  excision.  The  same  comparison  is  used  in  Rev. 
xiv,  14;  xv,  IS,  where  the  person  referred  to  as  execu- 
ting vengeance  is  Jesus  Christ  himself,  though  angels 
assist  in  the  execution.  But  harvest  is  also  used  in  a 
good  sense,  as  in  ZVIa-tt.  ix,  37;  Luke  x,  2;  John  iv,  35. 
.So  in  Jer.  viii,  20,  “The  harvest,  is  past,  the  summer  is 
ended,  and  we  are  not  saved;”  i.  e.  the  time  in  which 
we  expected  to  he  saved  is  past.  The  harvest,  in  "agri- 
cultural reckoning,  is  considered  to  be  the  end  of  the 
season,  being  the  time  appointed  for  gathering  in  the 
fruits  of  the  earth,  and  finishing  the  labors  of  the  j'ear. 
So,  in  Matt.  xiii,39,  our  Lord  says,  “The  harvest  is  the 
end  of  the  world,  and  the  reapers  are  the  angels.”  In 
Matt,  ix,  36,  our  Lord,  seeing  multitudes  coming  to  lie.'.r 
him,  remarks,  “The  harvest  truly  is  plenteous;”  i.  e. 
many  are  willing  to  receive  instruction.  See  AGRICUL- 
TURE. 

Harwood,  Edward,  a learned  Unitarian  minister, 1 
was  horn  in  1729  in  Lancashire.  In  1754  he  became 
master  of  a school  at  Conglcton,  in  Cheshire,  from  whence 
lie  removed  in  1765  to  Bristol,  where  he  was  ordained 
over  a l’rcsbytorian  congregation.  In  1768  lie  obtained 
his  degree  of  D.I).  from  Edinburgh,  through  the  inter- 
est of  Dr.  Chandler,  whose  daughter  he  married,  llis 
character,  however,  was  so  immoral  that  his  congrega- 
tion dismissed  him ; on  which  he  came  to  London, 
where  he  supported  himself  by  teaching  the  classics 
and  correcting  the  press.  He  died  poor  in  1794.  llis 
principal  works  are,  1..1  View  of  the  various  editions  of 
tin  Creek  and  Roman  Classics  (London,  4th  edit.,  1791, 
1-mo) : 2.  .la  Introduction  to  the  AY w Testament  (Lend. 

1 1 1 3-8 1,2  voHSvo) : — 3.  An  edition  of  the  Greek  Testa- 
ment (2  vols.  8vo) : — k A Liberal  Translation  of  the  Neiv 
Testament  into  polite  English  (or,  in  other  words,  a bur- 
lesque of  the  sacred  Scriptures)  (Lond.  1768,2  vols.  8y<>) ; 

- 5.  7 he  A nr  Testament,  collated  with  the  most  approved 
MSB.,  with  select  Xotes  (1776,2  vols.  12mo).  See  Gen- 
tleman's Mae/,  vols.  Ixii-lxiv;  Watt,  Bill.  Britannica. 

Hascall,  l).\Mia,  a Baptist  minister,  was  horn  at 
Bennington, AT.,  Eeh.  24, 1782,  graduated  at  Middlobury 
College  in  1806,  and  afterwards  studied  theology  while 
engaged  as  a teacher  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  In  i 808  ]ie 
became  pastor  of  the  Baptist  church  in  Elizabethtown, 
Essex  Co.,  X.  A'.,  where  he  was  ordained  Sept.  7th,  and 
in  1813  he  accepted  a call  from  the  Baptist  Church  of 
Hamilton,  N.  Y.  In  1815  he  began  to  receive  pupils  in 
theology,  and  after  establishing  the  Baptist  Education 
Society  ol  Xewr  Aork  in  1817,  his  little  school  was  in 


1820  transformed  into  the  “Hamilton  Literary'  and  The- 
ological Institution”  (now  Madison  University),  which 
was  opened  under  his  charge,  and  to  which  he  after- 
wards exclusively  devoted  himself,  dissolving  his  pas- 
toral connection  in  1828.  He  however  left  it  in  1835, 
and  gave  his  attention  to  an  academy  which,  two  years 
before,  had  been  started  mainly  through  his  agency  in 
Florence,  Oneida  Co.,  N.  AY  In  1848  he  resumed  his 
ministerial  labors  as  pastor  of  the  Baptist  Church  in 
Lebanon,  X.  AY  He  died  June  28, 1852.  Air.  Ilascall’s 
publications  were,  Elements  of  Theology,  designed  for 
family  reading  and  Bible-elasses ; a smaller  work  of  the 
same  kind  for  Sabbath-schools ; Caution  against  False 
Philosophy,  a sermon  (1817);  and  a pamphlet  entitled 
Definitions  of  the  Greek  Bapto,  Baptize,  etc.  (1818). — 
Sprague,  A nnals , vi,  547. 

Hasadi'ah  (Ileb .Chasadyah',  favored  by 

Jehot'ah ; Sept.  ’Aoacia),  one  of  the  five  sons  of  Pedaiah 
(not  of  Zerubbabel,  who  w as  a sixth),  of  the  descendants 
of  David  (1  Chron.  iii,  20) ; probably  the  same  otherw  ise 
called  Jusiiab-Hesed  in  the  same  verse  (see  Strong’s 
Harm,  and  Expos,  of  the  Gospels,  p.  17).  B.C.  eir.  536. 

Hasenkamp,  the  family  name  of  several  German 
theologians. 

Johann  Gerhard  was  horn  in  AA'echte,  Prussia,  June 
12, 1736.  Having  become  a student  at  the  Academy  of 
Lingen,  1753-55,  he  distinguished  himself  by  an  eager 
thirst  for  knowledge,  ami  by  great  earnestness  of  relig- 
ious activity.  For  preaching  without  license  lie  was 
several  times  arrested.  After  eleven  years’  suspension 
he  was  made  rector  of  the  Gymnasium  in  Duisburg  in 
1760,  and  soon  after  married,  and  settled  down  earnestly 
to  his  work  of  restoring  the  fallen  fortunes  of  the  gym- 
nasium. His  religious  tendencies  always  inclined  him 
to  favor  pietism,  and  to  urge  the  necessity  of  deep  Chris- 
tian experience.  He  therefore  sympathized  fully  with 
Collenbuscli  (q.  v.)  and  Oetinger  (q.  v.).  He  was  again 
suspended  as  a “ mystic”  and  disturber,  hut  was  soon  re- 
stored by  the  higher  Church  authorities  at  Berlin.  He 
died  July  10,  1771.  llis  autobiography,  extending  to 
1766,  and  continued  by  his  son,  w’as  published  in  the 
journal  Wahrheit  z.  Gotfseligkeit  (vol.  ii,  5,  6, 1836).  He 
also  published  Predigtnb  m.  d.  Geschmack  der  drei  ersten 
Jahrhunderte  (Frankfort,  1772).  His  other  writings  are 
of  little  importance. 

Friedrich  Arnold,  his  half-brother,  bom  Jan.  11, 
1747,  succeeded  Johann  as  rector  of  Duisburg,  and  mar- 
ried his  widow’.  Following  in  the  footsteps  of  his  broth- 
er, he  shared  liis  religious  opinions  and  feelings,  and 
wrote  several  pamphlets  in  exposition  of  the  views  of 
the  so-called  “mystical”  school  of  Stilling  and  Lavater. 
He  also  wrote  against  Semler  and  other  rationalists,  who 
fared  badly  under  his  fiery  attacks.  See  his  U.  die  ver- 
dmikelnde  A ifklarnng  (Dnisb.  1789)  : — Briefe  iiber  Pro- 
pheten  (Duisb.  1791),  etc.  He  died  in  1795. 

Johann  Heinrich,  another  brother,  wras  horn  Sept. 
19, 1750.  After  helping  his  parents  until  he  wras  sixteen 
years  old,  lie  began  his  studies,  was  from  1776  to  1779 
rector  at  Emmerich,  and,  having  been  appointed  pastor 
of  a small  congregation  near  Altona,  remained  there 
during  the  last  thirty-five  years  of  his  life.  The  loneli- 
ness of  his  life  in  the  solitude  of  his  remote  parish  influ- 
enced his  character,  yet  he  is  the  most  genial  of  the 
three  brothers,  as  is  seen  in  his  Christliche  Schriften 
(Alunstcr,  1816-19,  2 vols.).  He  died  July  17.  1814.— 
Herzog,  Real-E-ncylclop. ; I’ierer,  Universul-Lexikon,  s.v. 
(J.  N.P.) 

Hasenu'ah,  or  rather  Senuaii  (hfcttib,  a brist- 
ling [Gcsen.]  or  hated  [Fiirst],  with  the  art. 
has-Senuah'),  the  name  of  two  Benjamites  (hut  the 
name  has  the  fern,  termination). 

1.  (Sept.  ‘Aoavovd,  Eng.  A'ers.  “Ilasenuah.”)  Fa- 
ther of  Ilodaviah  and  ancestor  of  Sallu,  which  last  was 
a chief  resident  of  Jerusalem,  apparently  after  the  Cap- 
tivity ( 1 Chron.  ix.  7).  B.C.  ante  536. 

2-  (Sept.  ’A oavii,  Eng.  ATers.  “Senuah.”)  Father  of 


HASHABIAH 


95 


IIASPEYA 


Judah,  which  latter  was  “ second  over  the  city,”  after 
the  return  from  Babylon  (Nell,  xi,  9).  B.O.  cir.  440. 

Hasliabi'ah  (Heb:  Chashabyah' , rrri'rn  [and  in 
1 Chron.  xxv,  3 ; xxvi,  20 ; 2 Chron.  xxxv,  9,  the  pro- 
longed form  Chashabya'hu,  ^•"P^'L'PI],  regarded  by  Je- 
hovah ; Sept.  ‘Aatfii,  ’A<tw/3,  ’Aaefiiag,  ’A aafiia,  etc.), 
the  name  of  at  least  nine  descendants  of  Levi. 

1.  Son  of  Amaziah  and  father  of  Mallucli,  of  the  fam- 
ily of  Merari  (1  Chron.  vi,  45).  B.C.  long  ante  1014. 

*2.  A son  of  Jeduthun,  appointed  by  David  over  the 
twelfth  course  of  Levitieal  singers  (1  Cliron.  xxv,  3, 19). 
B.C.  1014. 

3.  Son  of  Ivemuel,  of  Hebron,  appointed  by  David  at 
the  head  of  the  officers  to  take  charge  of  the  sacred  rev- 
enue west  of  the  Jordan  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  30;  xxvii,  17). 
B.C.  1014.  . 

4.  One  of  the  chief  Levites  who  made  voluntary  of- 
ferings of  victims  for  the  renewal  of  the  Temple  services 
under  Josiah  (2  Chron.  xxxv,  9).  B.C.  623. 

5.  Son  of  Bunni  and  father  of  Azrikam,  of  the  family 
of  iMerari  (1  Chron.  ix,  14;  Neh.  xi,  15).  B.C.  consid- 
erably ante  440. 

6.  Son  of  Maltaniah  and  father  of  Bani,  Levites 
(Nell,  xi,  22).  B.C.  ante  440. 

7.  One  of  the  chief  priests  intrusted  by  Ezra  with 
the  bullion  and  other  valuables  for  the  sacred  vessels  at 
Jerusalem  (Ezra  viii,  24).  lie  is  probably  the  same 
whose  father  Ililkiah  is  mentioned  in  Nell,  xii,  21.  B.C. 
536. 

8.  A descendant  of  IMerari,  who  complied  with  Ezra’s 
summons  for  persons  to  perform  the  proper  Levitieal 
functions  at  Jerusalem  (Ezra  viii,  19).  B.C.  536. 

9.  A chief  of  the  Levites  (Nell,  xii,  24),  “ruler  of  the 
hall  part  of  Iveilah,”  who  repaired  part  of  the  walls  of 
Jerusalem  (iii,  17),  and  subscribed  the  coVenant  ol  fidel- 
ity to  Jehovah  (x,  11).  B.C.  446-410. 

Hashab'nali  (Heb.  Chashabmh',  n33’rn,  prob. 
for  PPTrn,  Hashabiah ; Sept.  ’Erra/iana,  Vulg.  Haseb- 
na),  one  of  the  chief  of  the  people  who  subscribed  Ne- 
liemiah’s  covenant  (Neh.  x,  25).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

Hashabni'ah  (Ileb.  Chashabneyah' , i.  q. 

tltt'^Hflashabnah ; Sept. 'Aofiavia, 2t/3«ja),tlie  name 
of  two  men  about  the  time  of  the  return  from  Babylon. 

1.  Father  of  Hattusli,  which  lattei  repaired  part  of 
the  walls  of  Jerusalem  (Neh.  iii,  10).  B.C.  ante  446. 

2.  One  of  the  Levites  appointed  by  Ezra  to  interpret 
the  law  to  the  people  (Neh.  ix,  5).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

Hashbad'ana  (Heb.  Chashbaddanah' ,f i3^2'rn,for 
•"1313  3‘3n,  consideration  in  judging,  peril,  q.  d.  consid- 
erate judge ; Sept.  ‘Aoafiacpd,  Vulg.  Ilasbadana),  one 
of  these  who  stood  at  Ezra’s  left  hand  while  he  read  the 
law  to  the  people  (Neh.  viii,  4).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

Hash-Baz.  See  Maiiek-Shalal-Hash-Baz. 

Ha'shem  (Ileb.  I/ashem',  D'33n,  perh.  i.  q.  C'L'H, 
fat ; Sept  'Acrug,  Vulg.  A asm),  a native  of  Gizoli,  and 
ancestor  of  two  of  David’s  heroes  (1  Chron.  xi,  34;  the 
Jasiien  (q.  v.)  of  2 Sam.  xxiii,  32).  B.C.  ante  1014. 

Hashishim.  See  Assassins. 

Hashmannim  (Hebrew  Chashmannim',^ 3"2'L;n  ; 
Sept.  TTptafiuc,  Vulg.  legati),  a plur.  form  occurring  only 
in  the  Heb.  of  Psa.  lxviii,  31 : “ Hashmannim  [A.  Vers, 
“princes”]  shall  come  out  of  Egypt,  Cush  shall  make 
her  hands  to  hasten  to  God.”  The  word  has  usually 
been  derived  from  the  Arabic  Mashmin,  rick,  hence  in- 
fluential or  noble;  but  a derivation  from  the  civil  name 
of  Hermopolis  Magna  in  the  Heptanomis,  preserved  in 
the  modern  Arabic  Ashmunyen,  “the  two  Ashmuns,” 
seems  more  reasonable.  The  ancient  Egyptian  name  is 
Ha-shmen  or  llashmun,  “the  abode  of  eight ;”  the  sound 
of  the  signs  for  eight,  however,  we  take  alone  from  the 
Coptic,  and  Brugsch  reads  them  Sesennu  ( Geog . Inschr. 
i,  219,  220),  but  hardly  on  conclusive  grounds.  If  we 
suppose  that  Hashmannim  is  a proper  name  and  signi- 


fies Hermopolites , the  mention  might  be  explained  liy 
the  circumstance  that  Hermopolis  Magna  was  the  great 
city  of  the  Egyptian  I lermes,Thoth,  the  god  of  wisdom ; 
and  the  meaning  might  therefore  be  that  even  the  wisest 
Egyptians  should  come  to  the  Temple,  as  well  as  the 
distant  Cushites. — Smith,  s.  v.  We  may  add  that  the 
name  llusmonean,  which  was  given  to  the  Maccabees  or 
Jewish  princes  in  the  interval  between  the  O.  and  N.  T., 
was,  it  is  supposed,  derived  from  Hashmannim  (Ilcng- 
stenberg,  Psalms,  ii,  369). — Ivitto,  s.  v. 

Hashmo'nah  (Ileb.  Chashmonah',  1" fat- 
ness; Sept.  ’ Aoaefujjvu,  v.  r.  ’A rrtXgiova  and  ^HtX/aova'), 
the  thirtieth  station  of  the  Israelites  during  their  wan- 
dering, situated  not  far  from  Mount  Ilor  (Moseroth),  in 
the  direction  of  the  desert  (Numb,  xxxiii,  29,  30) ; ap- 
parently near  the  intersection  of  wady  el-Jerafeh  with 
wady  el-Jeib,  in  the  Arabali.  See  Exode. 

Ha'shub  (Ileb.  Chashshub intelligent ; Sept. 
’Affo v[3,  in  Neh.  xi,  1 5 ’Aaoov(3,  in  1 Chron.  ix,  14  ’Air w/3 ; 
Vulg.  Ilasub,  in  1 Chron.  ix,  14  JIassub),  the  name  of 
two  or  three  men  about  the  time  of  the  return  from 
Babylon. 

1.  A Levite  of  the  family  of  Merari,  son  of  Azrikam 
and  father  of  Shemaiali,  which  last  was  one  of  those 
resident  in  the  “villages  of  the  Netophathites,”  and 
having  general  oversight  over  the  Temple  (Neh.xi,  15; 
l Chron.  ix,  14,  in  which  latter  passage  the  name  is 
more  accurately  Anglicized  “ Hasshub”).  B.C.  ante  440. 

2.  A person  who  repaired  part  of  the  walls  of  Jerusa- 
lem opposite  his  house  (Neh.  iii,  21) ; perhaps  the  same 
with  the  foregoing.  B.C.  446. 

3.  “Son”  of  Pahath-Moab,  and  one  of  those  who  re- 
paired part  of  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  (Neh.  iii,  1 1 ).  B.C. 
446.  He  is  probably  the  same  with  one  of  the  chief 
Israelites  who  joined  in  the  sacred  covenant  of  Neliemi- 
ah  (Neh.  x,  23).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

HashtCball  (Heb.  Ckaskubah',  HZ'l'n,  esteemed,  a 
Chaldaizing  form  for  STiTl;  Sept.  ’A<T£/3d,  Vulg.  Ilasa- 
ban),  one  of  the  five  sons  (exclusive  of  Zerubbabel)  of 
PedaYah,  the  descendant  of  David  (1  Chron.  iii,  20) ; 
not  of  Zerubbabel,  as  at  first  appears  (see  Strong’s  Har- 
mony and  Expos,  of  the  Gospels,  p.  17).  B.C.  cir.  536. 

Ha'shum  (Heb.  Chashum',  01LTJ,  opulent;  Sept. 
Aoovp,  ’Affi'in,  ’H aapi,  ‘Qodg,  ’H adg),  the  name  ap- 
parently of  two  or  three  men  about  the  time  of  the  Cap- 
tivity. 

1.  An  Israelite  whose  posterity  (or  rather,  perhaps,  a 
place  whose  inhabitants),  to  the  number  of  223  males, 
or  328  in  all,  returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel 
(Ezra  ii,  19 ; Neh.  vii,  22)  ; some  of  whom  afterwards 
divorced  their  Gentile  wives  (Ezra  x,  33).  The  asso- 
ciated names  seem  to  indicate  a locality  in  the  north- 
western part  of  the  territory  of  Benjamin.  B.C.  ante 
536. 

2.  One  of  those  who  stood  at  Ezra's  left  hand  while 
he  was  reading  the  law  to  the  people  (Neh.  viii,  4) ; 
probably  the  same  with  one  of  the  chief  of  the  people 
wlfo  subscribed  Nehemiah’s  covenant  (Neh.  x,  18).  B.C. 
cir.  410. 

Hashu'pha  (Neh.  vii,  46).  See  Hasupiia. 

Haskell,  Daniel,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
born  at  Preston,  Conn.,  June,  1784.  lie  graduated  at 
Yale  College,  1802 ; was  installed  pastor  in  Burlington, 
Vt.,  April  10, 1810,  where  he  remained  until  1821,  when 
he  was  made  president  of  the  University  of  \ ermont. 
He  resigned  this  office  in  1824.  and  died  Aug.  9,  1848. 
Mr.  Haskell  published  an  ordination  sermon  (1814);  with 
the  assistance  of  J.  C.  Smith,  A Gazetteer  of  the  l nited 
States  (1843,  8vo)  ; Chronological  Yieio  of  the  World 
(1845, 12mo) ; and  a few  occasional  discourses.  He  also 
edited  McCulloch’s  Geographical  Dictionary,  published 
by  the  Harpers  (1843-44).— Sprague,  .4 muds,  ii,526. 

Hasmonaeans.  See  As.mon.ean. 

Haspeya  (UC'Eari),  a river  and  town  of  Palestine, 


96 


HATTEMISTS 


IIASRAH 

near  Lebanon,  mentioned  in  the  Talmud  (Demay,  ii) ; 
according  to  Schwarz  (Palest,  p.  G5),  identical  with  the 
modern  Arabic  Koroni,  near  the  source  of  the  Jordan; 
evidently  the  modern  Ilasbeia , an  important  jdace  in 
that  region  (Robinson,  lleseat'dies,  new  ed.  iii,  380). 

Has'rah  (Ileb.  Chasrah',  poverty ; Sept.  ’E<r- 

(jfitl  v.  r.  Apdr,  Yulg.  I/asra),  the  father  (or  mother)  of 
Tikbath,  and  grandfather  of  Shallum,  which  last  was 
husband  of  Iluldah  the  prophetess  (2  Chron.  xxxiv,  22). 
The  parallel  passage  (2  Kings  xxii,  U)  gives  the  name, 
prob.  by  transposition,  in  the  form  Harhas  (3rHH, 
Sept.  'Apric, Tulg.  A racis).  1 lasrah  is  said  to  have  been 
« keeper  of  the  wardrobe,”  perhaps  the  sacerdotal  vest- 
ments ; if,  indeed,  that  epithet  does  not  rather  refer  to 
Shallum.  B.  C.  considerably  ante  G23. 

Hassan.  See  Assassins. 

Hasse,  Friedrich  Rudolf,  a German  theologian, 
was  born  at  Dresden  June  29, 1808.  After  studying  at 
Leipzic  and  Ilerlin,  he  established  himself,  in  1834,  at 
the  university  of  the  latter  city  as  privatdocent ; in  183G 
he  became  extraordinary  professor  of  Church  History  at 
the  University  of  Greifswald,  and  in  1841  ordinary  pro- 
fessor at  the  University  of  Bonn.  Subsequently  he  was 
also  appointed  consistorial  councillor.  He  died  m 18G2. 
II is  principal  work  is  the  excellent  monograph  Anselm 
von  Canterbury  (Leips.  1843-52,2  vols.),one  of  the  best 
works  of  this  class,  and  which  had  the  merit  of  causing 
a more  scientific  treatment  of  the  history  of  scholasti- 
cism. His  Geschickte  des  alten  Bundes  (Leips.  18G3)  is 
a course  of  lectures,  and,  as  such,  is  meritorious.  His 
Kirchengeschickte  was  published  after  his  death  by  Koh- 
ler (Leips.  1864,3  vols.).  See  Krafft ,F.R.  Basse  (Bonn, 
18G5) ; Studien  u.  Kritlcien,  1867,  p.  823. 

Hassena'ah  (Neh.  iii,  3).  See  Sexaaii. 

Has'shub  (l  Chron.  ix,  14).  See  Hasher. 

Hasu'pha  (Ileb.  Chasupha',  XSVrn,  uncovered ; 
Sept.  ’Aaovepd,  ’ Xotxtyd ; Yulg.  Harvplia),  one  of  the 
Nethinim  whose  descendants  returned  from  Babylon 
with  Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  43 ; Neh.  vii,  46,  in  which  lat- 
ter passage  the  name  is  less  correctly  Anglicized  liHash- 
vpha").  15.C.  ante  536. 

Hat  is  the  rendering  of  the  Eng.  Bible  for  the  Chald. 
X32“3  (Kxtrbda',  according  to  Gesenius  from  to 

f/inl  or  clothe,  as  in  1 Chron.  xv,  27),  a mantle  or  pal- 
lium (Dan.  iii,  21 ; marg.  ‘•turbans’’).  See  Dress. 

Ha'tacll  (Ileb.  I/atkak',  ““fl,  perhaps  from  Persic, 
verity;  Sept.  ’An\(t3ft7oc,  Yulg.  A thach),  one  of  the  eu- 
nuchs in  the  palace  of  Xerxes,  appointed  to  wait  on  Es- 
ther, whom  she  employed  in  her  communications  with 
Mordecai  (Esth.  iv,  5, 6, 9, 10).  B.C.  474. 

Hatchment,  a word  comipted  from  achievement , 
and  signifying,  in  heraldry,  the  armorial  bearings  of  any 
person  fully  emblazoned  with  shield,  crest,  supporters, 
etc.  The  word  is  used  in  England  for  the  escutcheon 
hung  up  over  a door  after  a funeral,  and  often  in  the 
church.  Heraldry  is  thus  supposed  to  have  been  for- 
merly connected  with  religion.  The  coat  was  said  to  be 
assumed  with  religious  feeling,  and  at  length  restored  to 
the  sanctuary,  in  token  of  thankful  acknowledgment  to 
Almighty  God. — Farrar,  Bedes.  Dictionary , s.  v. 

Hate  (properly  /.iioiw),  to  regard  with  a pas- 
sion contrary  to  love  (Jer.  xliv,  4).  God’s  hatred  is  to- 
wards all  sinful  thoughts  and  ways.  It  is  a feeling  of 
which  all  holy  beings  are  conscious  in  view  of  sin,  and 
is  wholly  unlike  the  hatred  which  is  mentioned  in  the 
Scriptures  among  the  works  of  the  flesh  (Gal.  v,  20). 
See  Anukr.  When  the  Hebrews  compared  a stronger 
affection  with  a weaker  one,  they  called  the  first  love, 
and  the  other  hatred,  meaning  to  love  in  a less  degree 
— “Jacob  have  I loved,  and  Esau  have  1 hated”  (Rom. 
ix,  13);  i.  e.  on  Jacob  have  I bestowed  privileges  and 
blessings  such  as  are  the  proofs  of  affection;  1 have 
treated  him  as  one  treats  a friend  whom  he  loves ; but 


from  Esau  hare  I withheld  these  privileges  and  bless- 
ings, and  therefore  treated  him  as  one  is  wont  to  treat 
those  whom  he  dislikes.  That  this  refers  to  the  bestow- 
ment  of  temporal  blessings,  and  the  withholding  of  them, 
is  clear,  not  only  from  this  passage,  but  from  comparing 
Mahi,  2,  3;  Gen.  xxv,  23;  xxvii,  27-29,  37-40.  Indeed, 
as  to  hated,  its  meaning  here  is  rather  privative  than 
positive.  So,  “ If  a man  have  two  wives,  one  beloved 
and  another  hated”  (Deut.  xxi,  15)  ; i.  e.  less  beloved. 
When  our  Saviour  says  that  he  who  would  follow  him 
must  hate  father  and  mother,  he  means  that  even  these 
dearest  earthly  friends  must  be  loved  in  a subordinate 
degree ; so,  in  the  same  sense,  the  follower  of  Christ  is 
to  hate  his  own  life,  or  be  willing  to  sacrifice  it  for  the 
love  and  service  of  the  Redeemer  (Gen.  xxix,30;  Deut. 
xxi,  16;  Prov.  xiii,  24;  Matt,  vi,  24;  x,  37 ; Luke  xiv, 
2G;  xvi,  13;  John  xii,  25).— Bastow.  See  Love. 

Ha'thath  (Heb.  Chathath',  TTH,  terror,  as  in  Job 
vi,  21;  Sept.  ’A$c&),  son  of  Othniel  and  grandson  of 
Kenaz,  of  the  tribe  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  iv,  13),  conse- 
quently also  grand-nephew  and  grandson  of  Caleb,  son 
of  Jephimneh  (see  ver.  15,  and  comp.  Judg.  i,  13).  B.C. 
post  1612. 

Hat'iplia  [many  Ilati'pha ] (Hebrew  Chatipha', 
captured ; Sept.  'Ari^a,  ’Arsupa),  one  of  the 
Nethinim  whose  posterity  returned  from  Babylon  with 
Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  54;  Neh.  vii,  56).  B.C.  ante  536. 

Hat'ita  [some  ITati'ta']  (Heb.  Chatita', 
exploration;  Sept.  ’Atitci),  one  of  the  “porters”  (i.  e. 
Levitieal  Temple -janitors)  whose  posterity  retnrned 
from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  42 ; Neh.  vii, 
45).  B.C.  ante  536. 

Hatsi  ham-Menuchoth  (rin:*2ii  ^H,  Chat- 

si',  etc.,  midst  of  the  resting-places  ; Sept.  'Eua  ’Appa- 
uiS,  Yulg.  dimidium  requietionum,  Eng.  Yers.  “half  of 
the  Manahethites,”  marg.  “half  of  the  Menuchites,”  or 
“Hatsiham-Menuchoth”),  one  of  the  two  sons  of  Sho- 
bal,  the  “father”  of  Kirjatli-Jearim  (1  Chron.  ii,  52); 
whence  the  patronymic  for  his  descendants,  Hatsi-haju- 
Manachthites  (■'riru'sri  isn,  Sept,  ijparv  rijg  Ma- 
vdSr, Yulg. dimidium  reqtiietionis,  Eng. Yers.  “half  of  the 
Manahethites,”  or  “half  of  the  Menuchites”),  in  verse 
54.  B.C.  between  1612  and  1093.  See  Menuchite. 

Hat-Temarim.  See  I r-hat-Temarim. 

Hat-Taavah.  See  Kibroth-hat-Taavah. 

Hat-Ticon.  See  Hazar-hat-Ticox. 

Hattem,  Pontian  van.  See  Hattemists. 

Hattemists,  a Dutch  sect,  named  from  Pontianus 
van  Hattem,  a minister  in  Zealand  towards  the  close  of 
the  18tli  century,  who  imbibed  the  sentiments  of  Spino- 
za, and  was  degraded  from  the  pastoral  office.  He  wrote 
a treatise  on  the  Heidelberg  Catechism.  The  Yerscho- 
rists  (q.  v.)  and  Hattemists  resemble  each  other,  though 
Yan  Hattem  tried  in  vain  to  imite  the"  Yerschorists 
with  his  own  followers.  “The  founders  of  these  sects 
followed  the  doctrine  of  absolute  decrees  into  its  farthest 
logical  results ; they  denied  the  difference  between  moral 
good  and  evil,  and  the  corruption  of  human  nature ; from 
whence  they  further  concluded  that  the  whole  of  religion 
consisted, not  in  acting, but  in  suffering;  and  that  all  the 
precepts  of  Jesus  Christ  are  reducible  to  this  one — that 
we  bear  with  cheerfulness  and  patience  the  events  that 
happen  to  us  through  the  divine  will,  and  make  it  our 
constant  and  only  study  to  maintain  a perfect  tranquil- 
lity of  mind.  Thus  far  they  agreed ; but  the  Hattem- 
ists further  affirmed  that  Christ  made  no  expiation  for 
the  sins  of  men  by  his  death,  but  had  only  suggested  to 
us,  by  his  mediation,  that  there  •was  nothing  in  us  that 
could  offend  the  Deity : this,  they  say,  was  Christ’s  man- 
ner of  justifying  his  servants,  and  presenting  them  blame- 
less before  the  tribunal  of  God.  It  was  one  of  their  dis- 
tinguishing tenets  that  God  does  not  pimish  men  for 
their  sins,  but  by  their  sins.”— See  Mosheim,  Ch.  History, 


HATTIL 


97 


HAURAN 


cent,  xvii,  sec.  ii,  pt.  ii,  cli.  ii ; Buck,  Theological  Diction- 
ary, s.  v. ; Paquot,  Memoires  pour  servir  ii  Thistoire  des 
Pays- Bus,  ix,  96-98;  Iloef'er,  Xouvelle  Biog.  Gene  rale, 
xxiii,  539. 

Hat'til  (Heb.  ChuttiV,  waving ; Sept.  ’ArWA, 

’ Err/p\),  one  of  the  descendants  of  “ Solomon’s  servants” 
(i.  e.  peril.  Gibeonitish  Temple  slaves),  whose  posterity 
returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  57 ; 
Neh.  vii,  59.)  B.C.  ante  53G. 

HattO,  bishop  of  Basel,  was  born  763,  made  bishop  in 
805,  and  abbot  of  Beichenau  in  80G.  lie  was  employed 
by  Charlemagne  in  an  embassy  to  the  Greek  emperor 
Nicephoros,  to  settle  the  boundaries  of  both  empires. 
Having,  in  823,  laid  aside  his  titles  and  dignities,  he  died 
in  83G  as  a simple  monk  at  Ileichcnau.  Two  of  his 
works  have  descended  to  us : De  visione  Wettini  (Visions 
of  his  disciple  Wettin  on  those  suffering  in  Purgatory 
and  on  the  Glory  of  Saints,  done  into  verses  by  Walafrid 
Strabo,  and  printed  in  Mabillon,  Acta  S.  Bened.  iv,  1, 
273);  25  capita  ( D'Acheri , i,  584). — Ilerzog,  Real-Ency- 
hlopadie,  s.  v. ; Clarke,  Succession  of  Sac.  Liter,  ii,  471. 
(J.N.P.) 

HattO  or  Otho  I,  tenth  archbishop  of  Mentz. 
The  time  and  place  of  his  birth  are  unknown.  In  888 
he  succeeded  Rudolf  as  abbot  of  Iieichenau,  then  one  of 
the  richest  monasteries  in  Germany.  lie  was  in  such 
favor  with  king  Arnulf— thanks  to  his  skill  and  utter 
want  of  principle — that  he  is  said  to  have  held  at  the 
same  time  eleven  other  abbeys.  In  891  he  was  elected 
archbishop  of  3Ientz:  here  he  built  a church  to  St. 
George,  having  obtained  the  head  and  another  part  of 
the  body  of  the  saint  from  pope  Formosus ! In  August, 
895,  he  presided  at  the  Council  of  Tribur,  where  the  em- 
peror and  22  bishops  were  present.  They  voted  58  can- 
ons, mostly  for  the  repression  of  crime.  The  8th  canon 
gives  an  idea  of  the  power  Rome  held  even  at  that  pe- 
riod over  the  German  churches : Ilonoreinus  sanctum  ro- 
manam  et  apostolicam  sedein,  ut  quee  nobis  sacerdotulis 
mater  est  dignitatis,  debeat  esse  mugistra  ecclesiastics  ra- 

tionis  quare licet  vix  ferendum  ab  ilia  sancta 

sede  imponatur  jugum,  conferamus  et  qua  devotione  ioler- 
emus.  After  Louis’s  death,  in  October,  911,  Ilatto  was 
retained  in  the  council  of  his  successor,  Conrad.  Hav- 
ing departed  on  a journey  to  Rome,  March  13,  913,  he 
died  a few  days  after  of  fever,  according  to  one  account ; 
but,  according  to  others,  he  was  killed  at  the  battle  of 
Heresburg  in  January,  913. — Iloefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gene- 
rale,  xxiii,  539  sq. ; Mabillon,  Acta  Sand.  Ord.  Bened. 
vii,  118.  (J.N.P.) 

Hatto  or  Otho  II,  surnamed  Bonose,  15th  arch- 
bishop of  Mentz.  He  was  abbot  of  Fulda,  and,  at  the 
death  of  archbishop  William  of  Saxony,  March  2,  968, 
was  appointed  his  successor  by  Emperor  Otho  I.  Ilatto 
died  in  969.  The  Magdeburg  Centuries  state  that  he 
was  eaten  alive  by  rats  as  a punishment  for  his  avarice, 
and  because  he  had,  during  a famine,  compared  the  poor 
to  these  animals ; and  he  is  the  subject  of  the  well-known 
legend  of  the  Rat  Tower  on  the  Rhine. — See  Gallia 
Christiana,  v,  col.  45G ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate, 
xxiii,  541.  (J.N.P.) 

Hat'tush  (Heb.  Chattush’,  prob.  assembled 

[Furst,  contender ] ; Sept.  'A rrovg,  but  Xtrrovg  in  1 
Chron.  iii,  22,  and  v.  r.  A arrovg  in  Ezra  viii,  2),  the 
name  of  several  men  about  or  after  the  time  of  the  re- 
turn from  Babylon. 

1.  A priest  who  returned  to  Jerusalem  with  Zerub- 
babel (Neb.  xii,  2).  B.C.  536. 

2.  A descendant  of  David  who  accompanied  Ezra  to 
Jerusalem  (Ezra  viii,  2).  B.C.  459.  See  No.  5. 

3.  Son  of  Hashabniah,  and  one  of  those  who  rebuilt 
the  walls  of  Jerusalem  (Neh.  iii,  10).  B.C.  446.  He 
was  possibly  the  same  with  No.  2. 

4.  One  of  the  priests  who  imited  in  the  sacred  cove- 
nant with  Nehemiah  (Neh.  x,  4).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

5.  One  of  the  sons  of  Shemaiah,  among  the  posterity  i 

IV— G 


of  Zerubbabel  (l  Chron.  iii,  22),  and  contemporary  with 
the  Nagge  of  Luke  iii,  25  (see  Strong's  Harm,  and  Ex- 
pos. of  the  Gospels,  p.  17).  B.C.  somewhat  post  40G. 
By  some  he  is  identified  with  No.  2 above,  reading  Ezra 
viii,  2 (after  the  (Sept.)  thus:  “of  the  sous  of  David: 
Ilattush,  of  the  sons  of  Shechaniah.”  This,  however, 
is  not  only  forbidden  by  other  chronological  notices  [see 
Daieies;  Zekukkabel],  but  rests  on  the  too  slender 
support  for  the  genuineness  of  the  text  itself  in  ques- 
tion; where,  as  in  ver.  5,  we  may  suppose  that  a name 
is  missing,  or  that  the  name  Shechaniah  itself  has  crept 
in  from  the  latter  verse,  since  it  appears  nowhere  else 
as  that  of  a family  head.  See  Shechaniah. 

Hangeans  (Haugeanere).  Hans  Nielsen  Hauge 
was  born  in  Norway  April  3, 1771.  He  had  strong  relig- 
ious impressions  in  youth,  which  produced  a gloom}'  state 
of  mind.  But  in  17*95  he  passed  through  a change  which 
tilled  him  with  joy.  Ever  after,  amid  all  vicissitudes, 
he  was  a cheerful  Christian.  He  soon  began  to  preach, 
and  made  a powerful  impression  on  the  public  mind.  1 Te 
travelled  extensively  in  Norway  and  Denmark,  wrote 
many  tracts,  and  in  1804  established  a printing-office  in 
Christiansand  to  disseminate  his  sentiments,  lie  ob- 
tained many  followers,  but  finally,  through  the  influence 
of  the  clergy,  was  punished  with  a heavy  fine  anti  im- 
prisonment. After  this  he  lived  in  retirement  till  his 
death  in  1824.  In  doctrine,  Hauge  differed  from  evan- 
gelical Protestants  in  general  in  but  few  points : e.  g.  he 
held  that  the  ministry  is  a common  duty,  and  that  spe- 
cially ordained  and  separated  ministers  are  unnecessary ; 
also  that  Church  creeds  and  Confessions  are  of  no  great 
account.  He  properly  placed  great  stress  upon  faith  and 
its  effects,  but  it  was  in  a one-sided  way.  Nevertheless, 
his  labors  contributed  largely  to  the  revival  of  evangel- 
ical religion.  The  party  called  Haugeans  is  still  numer- 
ous in  Norway:  they  contend  against  the  laxness  of 
Church  discipline  and  against  Rationalism,  and  have 
much  influence  with  the  people.  See  Hase,  Church  Hist. 
p.  547 ; Gregoire,  Hist,  des  Sedes  Relig.  t.  v. ; Staudlin 
and  Tschimer,  Archiu.f.  Kirch engeschichte,  ii,  354;  Ha- 
genbach,  Hist,  of  the  Church  in  18  th  and  10th  Centuries, 
transl.  by  Hurst,  ii,  389 ; Stud.  u.  Kritiken,  1849,  p.  749  sq. 

Hau'ran  (Heb.  Chavran’,  Sept.  Ai/partrig 

and  Qpainnc,  the  Auramtis  of  Josephus  and  others, 
the  Haitran  of  the  Arabs,  so  called  prob.  from  the  mul- 
titude of  caves,  "Vin,  found  there,  which  even  at  the 
present  day  serve  as  dwellings  for  the  inhabitants),  a 
tract  or  region  of  Syria,  south  of  Damascus,  east  of 
Gaulonitis  (Golan)  and  Bashan,  and  west  of  Trachoni- 
tis,  extending  from  the  Jabbok  to  the  territory  of  Da- 
mascene-Syria;  mentioned  only  in  Ezek.  xlvii,  16,  18, 
in  defining  the  north-eastern  border  of  the  Promised 
Land.  It  was  probably  of  small  extent  originally,  but 
received  extensive  additions  from  the  Romans  under 
the  name  of  A uranitis.  Josephus  frequently  mentions 
Auranitis  in  connection  with  Trachonitis,  Batantea,  and 
Gaulonitis,  which  with  it  constituted  the  ancient  king- 
dom of  Bashan  (War,  i,  20,  4;  ii,  17,  4).  It  formed 
part  of  that  TpayamV^oe  ywpn  referred  to  by  Luke 
(iii,  1)  as  subject  to  Philip  the  tetrarch  (comp.  Joseph. 
Ant.  xvii,  11,  4).  It  is  bounded  on  the  west  by  Gaulo- 
nitis, on  the  north  by  the  wild  and  rocky  district  of 
Trachonitis,  on  the  east  by  the  mountainous  region  of 
Batanrea,  and  on  the  south  by  the  great  plain  of  Moab 
(Jer.  xlviii,  21).  Some  Arab  geographers  have  de- 
scribed the  Huuran  as  much  more  extensive  than  here 
stated  (Bohaed.  Yit.  Sal.  ed.  Sclmlt.  p.  70;  Abulfed.  Tab. 
Syr.  s.  v.) ; and  at  the  present  day  the  name  is  applied 
by  those  at  a distance  to  the  whole  country  east  of  Jau- 
lau;  but  the  inhabitants  themselves  define  it  as  above. 
It  is  represented  by  Burckhardt  (Travels  in  Syria,  p. 
51,  211,  285,  291)  as  a volcanic  region,  composed  of  po- 
rous tufa,  pumice,  and  basalt,  with  the  remains  of  a cra- 
ter on  the  tell  Shoba,  which  is  on  its  eastern  border.  It 
produces,  however,  crops  of  corn,  and  has  many  patches 
of  luxuriant  herbage,  which  are  frequented  in  summei 


98 


HAVEN 


IIAURAXNE 

bv  the  Arab  tribes  for  pasturage.  The  surface  is  per- 
fectly Hat,  and  not  a stone  is  to  be  seen  save  on  the 
few  low  volcanic  tells  that  rise  up  here  and  there  like 
islands  in  a sea.  It  contains  upwards  of  a hundred 
towns  and  villages,  most  of  them  now  deserted,  though 
not  ruined.  The  buildings  in  many  of  these  are  re- 
markable, the  walls  are  of  great  thickness,  and  the  roofs  | 
and  doors  are  of  stone,  evidently  of  remote  antiquity  I 
(see  l’orter’s  Five  Years  in  Damascus,  voL  ii).  Accord-  I 
ing  to  E.  Smith  (in  Eobinson’s  Researches,  iii,  Append. 
p.ljO-157),  the  modern  province  of  Ilauran  is  regarded 
bv  the  natives  as  consisting  of  three  parts,  called  en- 
Xukrah,  el-Lejah,  and  el- Jebel.  The  first  of  these  terms 
designates  the  plain  of  Ilauran  as  above  defined,  ex- 
tending through  its  whole  length,  from  wady  el-Ajam 
on  the  north  to  the  desert  on  the  south.  On  the  west 
of  it  is  Jeidur,  Jaidan,  and  Jebel  Ajlun ; and  on  the  east 
the  Lejall  and  Jebel  Ilauran.  It  has  a gentle  undulat- 
ing surface,  is  arable  throughout,  and,  in  general,  very 
fertile.  With  the  rest  of  Ilauran,  it  is  the  granary  of 
Damascus.  The  soil  belongs  to  the  government,  and 
nothing  but  grain  is  cultivated.  Hardly  a tree  appears 
anywhere.  The  region  still  abounds  in  caves,  which 
the  old  inhabitants  excavated  partly  to  serve  as  cisterns 
for  the  collection  of  water,  and  partly  for  granaries  in 
which  to  secure  their  grain  from  plunderers.  Eshmis- 
kin  is  considered  the  capital  of  the  whole  Hauran,  being 
the  residence  of  the  chief  of  all  its  sheiks.  The  inhab- 
itants of  this  district  are  chiefly  Moslems,  who  in  man- 
ners and  dress  resemble  the  Bedawin,  but  there  is  a 
sprinkling  also  of  professed  Christians,  and  latterly  of 
the  Druses  (Murray’s  Handbook,  p.  499).  The  second 
division,  or  el-Lejah,  lying  east  of  the  Nukrah  and 
north  of  the  mountains,  lias  an  elevation  about  the  same 
as  that  of  the  Nukrah,  but  it  is  said  to  be  almost  a com- 
plete labyrinth  of  passages  among  rocks.  The  Lejah  is 
the  resort  of  several  small  tribes  of  Bedawin,  who  make 
it  their  home,  and  who  continually  issue  forth  from 
their  rocky  fastnesses  on  predatory  excursions,  and  at- 
tack, plunder,  or  destroy,  as  suits  their  purpose.  They 
have  had  the  same  character  from  a very  remote  pe- 
riod. The  third  division  is  the  mountain  of  Hauran, 
anil  appears  from  the  north-west,  as  an  isolated  range, 
with  the  conical  peak  called  Kelb  and  Kuleib  Hauran 
( the  dor/),  which  is  probably  an  extinct  volcano,  near 
its  southern  extremity.  But  from  the  neighborhood  of 
Busrah  it  is  discovered  that  a lower  continuation  ex- 
tends southward  as  far  as  the  eye  can  see.  On  this 
lower  range  stands  the  castle  of  Sulkliad,  distinctly  seen 
from  Busrah.  This  mountain  is  perhaps  the  Alsada- 
miiH  of  Ptolemy.  (See  Light  foot,  Op.  i,  316;  ii,  474; 
Belaud,  Palest,  p.  11)0 ; Journ.  of  Rue.  Lit.  July,  1*54 ; 

< Jraham,  in  Journ.  Roy.  Geol.  Roe.  1*5*,  p.  254;  Porter, 
Handbook , ii,  507 ; Stanley,  Jewish  Church,  i,  213.) 
Hauranne.  See  Dcvkuoikh. 

Hausmann,  Nicolaus,  an  intimate  friend  of  Lu- 
ther, and  the  reformer  of  the  city  of  Zwickau  and  the 
duchy  of  Anhalt,  was  horn  in  M79  at  Freiberg,  lie  be- 
came at  first  preacher  at  Schneeberg,  subsequently  at 
Zwickau,  where  he  had  many  and  severe  controversies 
with  the  adherents  of  Thomas  Milnzer.  In  1532  he  was 
appointed  pastor  of  Dessau,  having  been  warmly  recom- 
mended by  Luther.  In  1.538  he  accepted  a call  as  su- 
perintendent to  his  native  town  Freiberg,  but  while 
preaching  his  first  sermon  (Nov.  (i)  he  was  struck  with 
apoplexy,  which  caused  his  immediate  death.  Luther 
deeply  bemoaned  his  death,  and  praised  him  as  a man 
of  profound  piety.  Two  opinions  of  Hausmann  on  the 
reformation  in  Zwickau  have  been  published  by  Preller 
(Zeitschrift  fur  die  historische  Theologie,  1*52).  See  (). 
G.  Schmidt,  Xic.  Hausmann,  der  Freund  Luthers  (Lpz. 
1*30).  (A.  J.  S.) 

Hautefage,  Jean,  a French  Homan  (’atholic  theo- 
logian, was  born  at  Puy  Morin,  near  Toulouse,  in  1735. 
lie  was  educated  by  the  Jesuits,  but  left  them,  and  be- 
came a Jansenist.  Having  been  ordained  priest,  he  be- 


came vicar  in  a country  church  of  the  diocese  of  Tou- 
louse, but  his  opinions  being  suspected,  he  -was  suspend- 
ed. In  1766  he  became  subrector  of  the  college  of  Aux- 
erre,  and  canon  of  that  city,  but  his  Jansenistic  views 
caused  him  to  be  again  persecuted,  and  in  1773  he  was 
condemned  to  be  whipped,  branded,  and  sent  to  hard 
labor  for  life.  He  fled,  and  was  declared  innocent  by 
Parliament  Jan.  25, 1770.  During  his  exile  Hautefage 
had  travelled  through  Southern  Europe  in  company  with 
another  abbot,  Duparc  de  Bellegarde,  preaching  his  doc- 
trines everywhere.  "While  at  Lausanne  in  1775  and  the 
following  years,  they  published  CEarres  d' Antoine  A r- 
nauld  (42  vols.  4to).  After  his  return  to  Paris,  Haute- 
fage published  an  abridgment  of  the  Institution  et  In- 
struction chretiennes  (1785, 12mo),  and  the  3d  part  of  the 
Nourelles  ecclesiastiques,  1701—1790  (1791,  4to).  During 
the  Revolution,  and  until  his  death,  Feb.  1*,  181G,he  de- 
voted himself  to  teaching.  See  Silvv,  Eloge  de  M.  Vabhe 
Hautefage  (Paris,  18 1G,  8vo)  ; Barbier,  Diet,  des  A nony- 
mes ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate , xxiii,  574. 

Havelock,  Henry,  an  eminent  English  soldier  and 
Christian,  was  born  at  Bishop "Wearmouth  in  1795.  lie 
was  educated  under  the  Eev.  J.  Bradley,  curate  of  Dart- 
ford,  Kent,  until  1804,  when  he  was  sent  to  the  Charter- 
house. In  1*14  he  became  a pupil  of  Chi  tty,  the  great 
special  pleader  of  the  day,  to  study  law ; but  in  the  fol- 
lowing year  he  followed  his  brother  "William  into  the 
arm)',  and  was  appointed  to  the  Bifle  Brigade,  then  the 
95th.  Alter  serving  in  England,  Ireland,  and  Scotland, 
Havelock  embarked  for  India  in  1823.  To  serve  in  that 
part  of  the  world  was  his  own  choice,  for  which  he  had 
qualified  himself  by  studying  Hindostanee  and  Persian 
before  leaving  England.  During  the  voyage  a great 
change  passed  on  his  religious  views,  and  on  arriving 
with  his  regiment  in  India,  he  determined  to  devote  his 
attention  to  the  spiritual  welfare  of  his  men,  and  to  as- 
semble them  together,  as  opportunity  afforded,  for  read- 
ing the  Scriptures  and  devotional  exercises,  which  he 
continued  to  do  throughout  the  whole  of  his  after  ca- 
reer. In  1841  he  was  appointed  Persian  interpreter  to 
general  Elphinstonc,  and  took  part  in  the  memorable 
defence  of  Jellalabad.  On  the  completion  of  the  works, 
Havelock  suggested  to  general  Sale  to  assemble  the  gar- 
rison and  give  thanks  to  Almighty  God,  who  had  ena- 
bled them  to  complete  the  fortifications  necessary  for 
their  protection.  “ The  suggestion  was  approved,  and 
the  command  given.  1 Let  us  pray,’  said  a well-known 
voice.  It  was  Havelock’s.  ‘ Let  us  pray !’  and  down  be- 
fore the  presence  of  the  great  God  those  soldiers  rever- 
ently bowed,  one  and  all  of  them,  whilst  at  the  impulse 
of  a devout  and  grateful  heart  he  poured  forth  supplica- 
tion and  praise  in  the  name  of  the  Great  High-Priest.” 
This  incident  is  an  illustration  of  Havelock’s  religious 
life  during  the  whole  of  his  military  career.  In  the 
great  Indian  rebellion  of  1*57  he  distinguished  himself 
by  a series  of  the  most  brilliant  achievements  in  the  an- 
nals of  warfare;  but  still  he  was  distinguished  most  by 
his  personal  piety,  which  shone  resplendently  amid  the 
horrors  of  war.  He  died  of  dysentery  at  Alumbagh, 
Nov.  25, 1857,  one  day  before  the  announcement  of  his 
elevation  to  the  baronetcy  under  the  title  “ Havelock  of 
Lucknow,”  which  was  inherited  by  his  eldest  son,  Henry 
Marshman  Havelock  (horn  1830).  He  wrote,  History 
o f the  A ra  Campaigns  (London,  1827) : — Memoir  of  the 
Afghan  Campaign  (Lond.  1841).  See  Brock,  Biograph- 
ical Sketch  of  1/ a relock  (Lond.  185*.  12mo) ; Marshman, 
Memoirs  of  Sir  Henry  Havelock  (Lond.  1868). 

Haven  (Tin,  chdph,  Gen.  xliv,  13,  a seaside  or 
“coast,”  as  elsewhere  rendered;  fifra,  machoz’,  a ref- 
uge,hence  a harbor,  Psa.  evii, 30;  \t fifty.  Acts  xxvii,12). 
The  Phoenician  part  of  the  coast  of  Palestine  had  sev- 
eral fine  harbors  [see  Phoenicia],  and  some  such  were 
also  in  possession  of  the  Hebrews:  such  were  Caisarea 
and  Joppa  (q.  v.  severally),  which  were  especially  made 
use  of  for  coastwise  communication  (1  Mace,  xiv,  5, 34 ; 
Josephus,  Ant.  xv,  9,  G).  The  port  (D^  Kin^)  of  Tyre 


HAVENS 


99 


IIAVILAH 


(q.  v.)  was  the  most  famous  on  the  whole  Mediterranean 
shore  (Ezek.  xxvii,  3).  A harbor  is  called  in 

Chaldee,  also  in  Samaritan. — Winer,  i,  454.  See  Navi- 
gation. 

The  Cretan  harbor  called  Fair  Havens  (q.  v.),  KnXot 
Ai plvtq,  is  incidentally  mentioned  in  the  N.  T.  (Acts 
xxvii,  8).  See  Chute. 

Havens,  James,  a minister  of  the  Methodist  Epis- 
copal Church,  was  born  in  Mason  Co.,  lvv.,  December  ‘25, 
1793.  At  eighteen  he  received  license  to  preach,  and  in 
1820  he  entered  the  travelling  ministry  in  the  Ohio  Con- 
ference. lie  served  twelve  years  in  circuits,  and  twen- 
ty-four as  presiding  elder.  Possessing  a strong  consti- 
tution and  vigorous  intellect,  he  taxed  them  butli  to  the 
utmost  in  remedying  the  defects  of  his  early  education, 
and  in  making  “full  proof  of  his  ministry.”  He  became 
one  of  the  most  powerful  preachers  of  his  time,  and  con- 
tributed perhaps  as  much  as  any  other  man  to  build  up 
the  Church  in  the  West,  especially  in  Indiana,  where 
the  last  forty  years  of  his  life  were  spent.  He  died  in 
November,  18(54. — Minutes  of  Conferences , 18G5,  p.  190. 

Havernick,  Heinrich  Andreas  Christoph,  a 
German  theologian,  was  born  at  Krdplin,  in  Mecklen- 
burg, in  1805.  lie  studied  at  llalle,  and  was  one  of 
the  two  students  whose  notes  on  the  theological  lec- 
tures of  Wegsclieider  and  Gesenius  were  used  to  insti- 
tute a triai  against  those  prominent  champions  of 
Rationalism.  At  the  University  of  Berlin  he  closely 
attached  himself  to  Hengstenberg.  In  1834  be  estab- 
lished himself  as  priratdocent  at  Rostock,  and  in  1841 
he  became  ordinary  professor  of  theology  at  Kbnigs- 
berg.  He  died  in  1845  at  New  Strelitz.  The  exegetical 
works  of  Havernick  are  counted  among  the  most  learn- 
ed of  the  orthodox  school.  The  most  important  of 
them  are  Comment ar.  iiber  das  Buck  Daniel  (Hamburg, 
1832) : — Melanges  eh  theologie  reformer.  (Geneva,  1833 
sq.) : — Handbuch  der  hist.-krit.  Einleitung  in  das  A.  T. 
(Erlangen,  1836-39,  2 vols.;  2d  ed.  by  Keil,  1849-54)  : — 
Xei/e  Krit.  Untersuehungen  ii.  das  Buck  Daniel  (Hamb. 
1838) : — Commentar  zum  Buche  Ezekiel;  Yorlesungen  ii. 
d.  Theologie  des  A.T.  (ed.  by  Hahn,  Frankf.  1848 ; 2d  ed. 
by  Schultz,  F rankf.  1863).  Translations:  Gen.  Introd.  to 

0.  T.  (Edinb.  1852) ; Bit  rod.  to  the  Pentateuch  (Edinb. 
1850). 

Hav'ilah  (Ileb.  Chanlah ',  signif.  unknown ; 

Sept.  EuiXd,but  EbetXd  in  Gen.  x,  29,  EtrtXdr  in  Gen. 
ii,  11,  and  Ei)<  in  1 Chron.  i,  29;  Vulg.  Ileuila,  but  Heui- 
lath  in  Gen.  ii,  11),  the  name  of  two  or  three  regions; 
perhaps  also  of  two  men  (B.C.  cir.  2400). 

1.  A land  rich  in  gold,  bdellium,  and  slioham,  men- 
tioned in  Gen.  ii,  11,  as  flowed  around  (or  through)  by 
the  river  Pishon,  in  the  geographical  description  of  Par- 
adise. Some  identify  this  Havilah  with  one  of  those 
following;  but  others  take  it  to  be  the  Clue  ala,  on  the 
Caspian  Sea,  whence  that  sea  itself  is  said  to  have  de- 
rived the  Russian  name  of  Chwalinskog  more  (Sea  of 
C'liwala)  ; and  others  suppose  it  a general  name  for  In- 
dia, in  which  case  the  river  Fison,  mentioned  as  sur- 
rounding it,  would  be  identified  with  the  Ganges,  or 
even  the  Indus.  Others  again,  who  regard  the  Pishon 
as  the  Phasis,  make  Havilah  to  be  Colchis,  for  which 
some  think  there  is  the  distinctive  name  in  Scripture 
of  the  11  Cashihim”  (q.  v.).  In  Gen.  ii,  11, 12,  it  is  fur- 
ther described  as  the  land  where  the  best  gold  was 
found,  and  which  was,  besides,  rich  in  the  treasures  of 
the  bedoluch  and  the  stone  slioham.  That  the  name  is 
derived  from  some  natural  peculiarity  is  evident  from 
the  presence  of  the  article  with  all  the  terms.  What- 
ever may  be  the  true  meaning  of  bedolach,  be  it  carbun- 
cle, crystal,  bdellium,  ebony,  pepper,  cloves,  beryl,  pearl, 
diamond,  or  emerald,  all  critics  detect  its  presence,  un- 
der one  or  other  of  these  forms,  in  the  country  which 
they  select  as  the  Havilah  most  appropriate  to  their 
own  theory.  As  little  difficulty  is  presented  by  the 
shoham call  it  onyx,  sardonyx,  emerald,  sapphire, 
beryl,  or  sardius,  it  would  be  hard  indeed  if  some  of 


these  precious  stones  could  not  be  found  in  any  conceiv- 
able locality  to  support  even  the  most  far-fetched  and 
improbable  conjecture.  That  Havilah  is  that  part  of 
India  through  which  the  Ganges  flows,  and,  more  gen- 
erally, the  eastern  region  of  the  earth;  that  it  is  to  be. 
found  in  Susiana  (Ilopkinson),  in  Ava  (Buttmann),  oi* 
in  the  Ural  region  (Raumer),  are  conclusions  necessarily 
following  upon  the  assumptions  with  regard  to  the  Pi- 
son.  Hartmann,  Reland,  and  Roscnmiillcr  arc  in  favor 
of  Colchis,  the  scene  of  the  legend  of  the  Golden  Fleece. 
The  Phasis  was  said  to  flow  over  golden  sands,  and  gold 
was  carried  down  by  the  mountain-torrents  (Strabo,  xi, 
2,  § 19).  The  crystal  (bedolach)  of  Scythia  was  re- 
nowned (Solinus,  c.  xx),  and  the  emeralds  (shoham)  of 
this  country  were  as  far  superior  to  other  emeralds  as 
the  latter  were  to  other  precious  stones  (Pliny,  Hist, 
Nut.  xxxvii,  17),  all  which  seems  to  prove  that  Havilah 
was  Colchis.  Rosenmiillcr  argues,  with  much  force,  if 
the  Phasis  be  the  Pison,  the  land  of  Havilah  must  be 
Colchis,  supposing  that  by  this  country  the  Hebrews 
had  the  idea  of  a Pontic  or  Northern  India.  In  like 
manner  Leclerc,  having  previously  determined  that  the 
Pison  must  be  the  Chrysorrhoas,  finds  Havilah  not  far 
from  Ccele-Syria.  llasse  (Entdeck.  p.  49,  50,  quoted  by 
Roscnmiillcr)  compares  Havilah  with  the  'YXuta  of 
Herodotus  (iv,  9),  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  Arimas- 
pians,  and  the  dragon  which  guarded  the  land  of  gold. 
Discussions  about  the  site  of  Ilavilah  will  be  found  in 
all  the  chief  Biblical  commentators  ancient  and  mod- 
ern, as  i veil  as  in  Ilottinger  (Enneas  Dissert.),  Iluet 
(De  Lit.  Farad.),  Bochart  ( Phaleg , ii,  28),  Michaelis 
(Spicilegium,  p.  202;  Supplem.  p.  685),  Schultess  (Par- 
odies, p.  105),  Niebuhr  and  many  other  writers.  The 
clearest  and  best  account  of  any  may  be  derived  from 
Kalisch  (Genesis,  p.  93,  249,  287,  etc.),  who  also  gives 
a long  list  of  those  who  have  examined  the  subject  (p. 
109-102).  — Smith,  s.  v. ; Kitto,  s.  v.  The  Paradisaic 
Ilavilah  cannot  well  be  identified  with  either  of  those 
mentioned  below,  since  they  were  evidently  in  or  near 
Arabia;  and  the  associated  regions  in  the  Edenic  ac- 
count are  all  in  the  neighborhood  of  Armenia  or  Ara- 
! rat,  near  the  sources  of  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates.  The 
most  consistent  conclusion,  therefore,  is  that  which  lo- 
cates the  Havilah  in  question  at  the  north-eastern  cor- 
ner of  Asia  Minor,  i.  e.  substantially  Colchis.  See  Pison. 

2.  A district  in  Arabia  Felix,  deriving  its  name  from 
the  second  son  of  Cnsh  (Gen.  x,  7) ; or,  according  to 
others,  from  the  second  son  of  Joktan  (Gen.  x,  29;  com- 
pare xxv,  18).  Since  in  the  other  places  where  the 
word  occurs  it  is  always  used  to  designate  a country, 
some  doubt  whether  persons  of  this  name  ever  existed ; 
the  more  so  as  other  names  of  countries  (Ophir,  Miz- 
raim,  Canaan,  Sidon),  and  the  collective  names  of  tribes 
(Ivittim,  Dodanim),  are  freely  introduced  into  the  gen- 
ealogy, which  is  undoubtedly  arranged  with  partied 
reference  to  geographical  distribution,  as  well  as  direct 
descent  [see  Sheba;  Dedan,  etc.]  (see  Kalisch,  Gene- 
sis, p.  287).  On  this  supposition  'it  is  not  difficult  to 
account  for  the  fact  that  the  people  of  Havilah  appear 
as  descendants  both  of  the  Hamites  and  of  the  Shemites. 
If  they  were  originally  of  Shemitic  extraction  (and  on 
this  point  we  have  no  data  which  could  enable  ns  to 
decide),  we  must  suppose  that  by  peaceful  emigration 
or  hostile  invasion  they  overflowed  into  the  territory 
occupied  by  Hamites,  or  adopted  the  name  and  habits 
of  their  neighbors  in  consequence  of  commerce  or  inter- 
marriage, and  are  therefore  mentioned  twice  over  by 
reason  of  their  local  position  in  two  distinct  regions. 
It  would  depend  on  circumstances  whether  au  invading 
or  encroaching  tribe  gave  its  name  to  or  derived  its  name 
from  the  tribe  it  dispossessed,  so  that  whether  Havilah 
was  originally  Cushite  or  .Toktanite  must  be  a matter 
of  mere  conjecture;  but  by  admitting  some  such  princi- 
ple as  the  one  mentioned  we  remove  from,  the  book  of 
Genesis  a number  of  apparent  perplexities  (Kalisch, 
Gen.  p.  454).  See  Ur.  To  regard  the  repetition  of  the 
name  as  due  to  carelessness  or  error  is  a method  of  ex- 


100 


HAWES 


HAVOTH-JAIR 


planation  which  does  not  deserve  the  name  of  criticism. 
See  Ham.  . 

Assuming,  then,  that  the  districts  indicated  m Gen. 
x,  7.  20,  were  conterminous,  if  not  in  reality  identical, 
we  have  to  fix  on  their  geographical  position.  Various 
derivations  of  the  word  have  been  suggested,  but  the  : 
most  probable  one,  from  bin,  saml  (Mochart,  rhaleg,  ii, 
20),  is  too  vague  to  give  us  any  assistance.  Looking 
for  preciser  indications,  we  find  in  Gen.  xxv,  18  that  the  } 
descendants  of  Ishmael  “ dwelt  from  lluvilah  unto  Shur 
that  is  before  Egypt  as  thou  goest  towards  Assyria 
and  in  1 Sam.  xv,  7 we  read  that  Saul  ‘‘smote  the  Amal- 
ekites  from  lluvilah  until  thou  contest  to  Shur  that  is 
over  against  Egypt.”  Without  entering  into  the  ques- 
tion why  the  Amalekites  are  represented  as  possessing 
the  country  which  formerly  belonged  to  the  Ishmael- 
ites,  it  is  clear  that  these  verses  fix  the  general  position 
of  Uavilah  as  a country  lying  somewhere  to  the  south- 
ward and  eastward  of  Palestine.  Further  than  this, 
the  Cushite  Uavilah  in  Gen.  x,  7 is  mentioned  in  con- 
nection with  Seba,  Sabtah,  and  Raamah  ; and  the  Jok- 
tanite  Havilah  (Gen.  x,  29)  in  connection  with  Ophir, 
Jobab,  etc.  Now,  as  all  these  places  lay  on  or  between 
the  Arabian  and  Persian  gulfs,  we  may  infer,  with  tol- 
erable certainty,  that  Ilavilali  “in  both  instances  des- 
ignates the  same  country,  extending  at  least  from  the 
Persian  to  the  Arabian  Gulf,  and  on  account  of  its  vast 
extent  easily  divided  into  two  distinct  parts”  (Kalisch, 
Gen.  p.  93).  See  Shur. 

The  only  method  of  fixing  more  nearly  the  centres 
of  these  two  divisions  of  Havilah  is  to  look  for  some 
trace  of  the  name  yet  existing.  But,  although  Oriental 
names  linger  with  great  vitality  in  the  regions  where 
they  have  arisen,  yet  the  frequent  transference  of  names, 
caused  by  trade  or  by  political  revolutions,  renders  such 
indication  very  uncertain  (Von  Bohlen,  on  Gen.  x,  7). 
We  shall  therefore  content  ourselves  with  mentioning 
that  Strabo,  quoting  Eratosthenes,  places  the  Xav\ o- 
ratot  near  the  Nabatlioei,  north  of  the  Arabian  Gulf 
(Strabo,  xvi,  4),  and  that  Ptolemy  (iv,  7)  mentions  the 
AvaXtrat,  on  the  African  coast,  near  Bab-el-Mandeb,  the 
modem  Zevlah  (eomp.  Plin.  vi,  28 ; Gesen.  Thes.  i,  452). 
Niebuhr  also  finds  two  Khawlans  in  Yemen,  one  a town 
between  Sanaa  and  Mecca,  the  other  a district  some 
miles  to  the  south-east  of  Sanaa  ( Beschr . A rah.  p.  270, 
280  • see  further,  Biischung,  Erdbeschr.  V,  i,  G01 ; Mi- 
chaclis,  Spicilcg.  i,  189;  ii,  202;  Forster,  Geog.  of  Arab. 
i,  40,  41,  etc.).  These  names  may  very  possibly  be 
traces  of  the  great  Biblical  country  ol  Havilah. — Kitto, 
s.  v.  See  Ethnology. 

The  district  of  KhAwlan  lies  between  the  city  of  Sa- 
na and  the  Hijaz,  i.  e.  in  the  north-western  portion  of 
the  Yemen.  It  took  its  name,  according  to  the  Arabs, 
from  KhAwlan,  a descendant  of  Kahtan  [see  Joktax] 
(Mardsid,  s.v.),  or,  as  some  say,  of  Kahlan,  brother  of 
1 limyer  (Caussin,  Essai,  i,  1 13,  and  Tab.  ii).  This  gen- 
ealogy says  little  more  than  that  the  name  was  Joktan- 
ite;  and  the  difference  between  Kahtan  and  Kahlan 
may  be  neglected,  both  being  descendants  of  the  first 
doktanite  settler,  and  the  whole  of  these  early  tradi- 
tions pointing  to  a doktanite  settlement,  without  per- 
haps a distinct  preservation  of  Joktan’s  name,  and  cer- 
tainly none  of  a correct  genealogy  from  him  downwards. 

KhAwlan  is  a fertile  territory,  embracing  a large  part 
of  myrrhiferous  Arabia,  mountainous,  with  plenty  of 
water,  and  supporting  a large  population.  It  is  a tract 
of  Arabia  better  known  to  both  ancients  and  moderns 
than  the  rest  of  the  Yemen,  and  the  eastern  and  central 
provinces.  It.  adjoins  Nejran  (the  district  and  town  of 
that  name),  mentioned  in  the  account  of  the  expedition 
of  J'.lius  Gall  us,  and  the  scene  of  great,  persecutions  of 
the  Christians  bv  Dlm-Xuwas,  the  last  of  the  Tubbaas 
before  the  Abyssinian  conquest  of  Arabia,  in  the  year 
523  of  our  ;era  (compare  Caussin,  Essai,  i,  121  sq.). — 
Smith,  s.  v. 

Ha'voth-Ja'i'r  (Heb.  Chanoth'  Yair *PSO  rin 


hamlets  of  Jair  [i.  e.  the  enlightener'] ; Sept.  trauAag 
and  nwfiai  Yaqo,  OavwSr,  etc.;  Vulg.  ricus,  or  viculus, 
or  JIavoth  Jair,  etc.),  the  name  of  a settlement  or  dis- 
trict east  of  the  Jordan.  The  word  Chavvah,  which  oc- 
curs in  the  Bible  in  this  connection  only,  is  perhaps  best 
explained  by  the  similar  term  in  modem  Arabic,  which 
denotes  a small  collection  of  huts  or  hovels  in  a country 
place  (see  the  citations  in  Gesenius,  Thesavr.  p.451 ; and 
Stanley,  Sinai  ami  ral.  App.  § 84),  such  as  constitutes 
an  Arab  village  or  small  town.  See  Topographical 
Terms. 

(1.)  The  earliest  notice  of  the  Havoth-jair  is  in  Numb. 
xxxii,41,  in  the  account  of  the  settlement  of  the  trans- 
Jordanic  country,  where  Jair,  son  of  Manasseli,is  stated 
to  have  taken  some  villages  (A.  V.  “the  small  towns;” 
but  there  is  no  article  in  the  Hebrew)  of  Gilead,  which 
was  allotted  to  his  tribe,  and  to  have  named  them  after 
himself,  Hawoth-jair.  (2.)  In  Dent,  iii,  14  it  is  said 
that  Jair  “took  all  the  tract  of  Argob  unto  the  boundary 
of  the  Gesliurite  and  the  Maacatliite,  and  called  them 
[i.  c.  the  places  of  that  region]  after  his  own  name.  Ba- 
shan-havoth-jair.”  (3.)  In  the  records  of  Manasseh  in 
Josh,  xiii,  30,  and  1 Chron.  ii,  23  (A.V.,  in  both  “towns 
of  Jair”),  the  Havvoth-jair  are  reckoned  with  other  dis- 
tricts as  making  up  sixty  “cities”  (£“■)?).  In  1 Kings 
iv,  13  they  are  named  as  part  of  the  commissariat  dis- 
trict of  Ben-geber,  next  in  order  to  the  “ sixty  great  cit- 
ies” of  Argob,  as  the  Eng.  Vers,  has  it ; hut  probably  the 
latter  designation  is  only  added  for  definiteness,  and  re- 
fers to  the  same  region.  (4.)  No  less  doubtful  is  the 
number  of  the  Ilavvoth-jair.  In  1 Chron.  ii,  22  they  are 
specified  as  twenty-three,  but  in  Judg.  x,  4,  as  thirty. — 
Smith,  s.  v.  See  Jair. 

From  these  statements  some  have  inferred  that  there 
were  two  separate  districts  called  Chavvoth-Yair  (see 
Reland,  ralcest.  p.  483),  one  in  Gilead,  and  the  other  in 
Baslian  (Porter,  Damascus,  ii,  270).  But  in  order  to  rec- 
oncile the  different  passages  where  they  are  spoken  of, 
it  is  only  necessary  to  suppose  that  having  first  been 
captured  by  the  original  Jair  when  they  were  mere  no- 
made  hamlets,  and  but  23  in  number,  they  were  after- 
wards occupied  and  increased  to  30  by  the  judge  Jair, 
and  that  they  were  usually  regarded  as  part  of  the  sixty 
considerable  places  comprised  within  the  general  tract 
of  Bashan,  including  Gilead.  See  Argob. 

Haweis,  Thomas,  an  English  theologian,  was  born 
at  Truro  (Cornwall)  in  1734.  He  was  first  apprenticed 
to  a druggist,  but  afterwards  studied  at  Christ  College, 
Cambridge,  and  took  the  degree  of  B.L.  He  soon  after 
entered  the  Church,  and  became  assistant  of  Madan, 
chaplain  of  Lock  Hospital.  The  latter  afterwards  gave 
him  the  rectorship  of  All  Saints  (Northamptonshire) ; 
and  the  countess  of  Huntingdon  gave  him  also  the  di- 
rection of  several  chapels  she  had  erected,  and  of  her 
seminary  for  theological  students.  He  became  director 
of  the  London  Missionary  Society  at  its  foundation,  and 
died  in  1820.  lie  published  several  books  of  practical, 
but  not  of  scientific  value;  among  them  are  History  of 
the  Church  (Lend.  1800,  3 a-oIs.  8vo)  : — Life  of  the  Her. 
William  Romaine  (Lond.  1798,8vo) : — State  of  the  Evan- 
gelical Religion  throughout  the  World  (8vo)  :• — The  Evan- 
gelical Expositor,  a Comment  on  the  Bible  (Lond.  17G5,  2 
vols.  fob  : of  little  value) : — New  Translation  of  the  New 
Testament  (Lond.  1795, 8vo) : — Communicant's  Companion 
(Lond.  1703,  12mo;  often  reprinted) : — Fifteen  Sermons 
(new  ed.  Oxford,  1835, 12mo).  See  Rose,  New  Gcn.Biog. 
Diet. ; Hoefcr,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  G24. 

Hawes,  Joel,  D.D.,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
horn  in  Medway,  Mass.,  Dee.  22, 1789.  His  parents  were 
poor,  and  his  early  opportunities  of  education  were  there- 
fore limited.  After  his  conversion  in  1807,  he  gave  all  the 
time  he  could  spare  from  his  trade  to  study,  and  in  1809 
he  entered  Brown  University.  During  his  college  course 
he  supported  himself  chiefly  by  work  during  term  time, 
and  by  teaching  school  in  vacation.  He  graduated  A.B. 
[ with  honor  in  1813.  After  completing  the  theological 


HAWK 


101 


IIAWK 


course  at  Andover  (1818),  he  was  settled  as  pastor  of  the 
First  Congregational  Church  of  Hartford,  in  which  he 
remained  until  1862,  when  the  Rev.  G,  H.  Gould  was  in- 
stalled as  pastor.  Dr.  Hawes,  however,  remained  as  pas- 
tor emeritus,  preaching  frequently,  as  his  strength  would 
admit.  He  died  at  Gilead,  Conn.,  June  5,  1867.  Ilis 
long  pastorate  at  Hartford  was  eminently  successful: 
more  than  1500  persons  joined  the  Church  under  his 
ministry.  The  great  Christian  enterprises,  such  as  the 
Foreign  Mission  cause,  Home  Missions,  liible  and  Tract 
Distribution,  the  Christian  Press,  Education  for  the  Min- 
istry, lay  near  his  heart,  and  occupied  a very  large  share 
of  his  time  and  labors.  Ilis  writings  were  chiefly  prac- 
tical, and  include  Lectures  to  Young  Men  (1828,  which 
had  an  immense  circulation  both  in  America  and  in  Great 
Britain) : — Tribute  to  the  Pilgrims  (1830)  : — Memoir  of 
Norma  nil  Smith  (1839): — Letters  on  Universalism  (18mo) : 
Character  everything  for  the  Young  (1843): — The  Relig- 
ion of  the  East  (1845)  : — A n Offering  for  Home  Mission- 
aries (a  volume  of  sermons,  of  which  he  gave  800  copies 
to  the  Home  Missionary  Society  for  distribution). — In- 
dependent, June.  13, 1867 ; Congregationalist,  June,  1867. 

Hawk  (j*3,  nets,  from  its  swift  flight ; Sept.  Upa£ ; 
Vulg.  accipiter),  an  English  name  in  an  altered  fonn  of 
the  old  word  fawk  or  folk,  and  in  natural  history  repre- 
senting several  genera  of  raptorial  birds;  as  does  the 
Arabic  naz,  and  no  doubt,  also,  the  Hebrew  nets,  a term 
expressive  of  strong  and  rapid  flight,  and  therefore  high- 
ly appropriate  to  the  hawk : the  similarity  of  the  Latin 
name  nisus  is  worthy  of  notice.  The  hawk  is  noticed 
as  an  unclean  bird  (Lev.  xi,  16:  Dent,  xiv,  15),  and  as 
“stretching  her  wings  toward  the  south”  (Job  xxxix, 
26) — an  expression  which  has  been  variously  understood 
as  referring  either  to  the  migratory  habits  of  the  bird, 
one  species  alone  being  an  exception  to  the  general  rule 
in  this  respect  (Pliny,  x,  9)  ; or  to  its  moulting,  and  seek- 
ing the  warmth  of  the  sun’s  rays  in  consequence  (Bo- 
chart,  llieroz.  iii,9);  or,  lastly,  to  the  opinion  prevalent 
in  ancient  times,  that  it  was  the  only  bird  whose  keen 
eye  could  bear  the  direct  rays  of  the  sun  (/Elian,  II.  A . 
x.  14).  The  hawk,  though  not  migratory  in  all  coun- 
tries, is  so  in  the  south  of  Europe  and  in  parts  of  Asia. 
It  was  common  in  Syria  and  the  surrounding  countries. 
In  Egypt  one  species  was  regarded  as  sacred,  and  fre- 
quently appears  on  the  ancient  monuments. — Smith,  s. 
v.  Western  Asia  and  Lower  Egypt,  and  consequently 
the  intermediate  territory  of  Syria  and  Palestine,  are 
the  habitation  or  transitory  residence  of  a considerable 
number  of  species  of  the  order  Raptores,  which,  even  in- 
cluding the  shortest-winged,  have  great  powers  of  flight, 
are  remarkably  enterprising,  live  to  a great  age,  are  mi- 
gratory, or  followers  upon  birds  of  passage,  or  remain  in 
a region  so  abundantly  stocked  with  pigeon  and  turtle- 
dove. as  Palestine,  and  affording  such  a variety  of  ground 
to  hunt  their  particular  prey,  abounding  as  it  does  in 
mountain  and  forest,  plain,  desert,  marsh,  river,  and  sea- 
coast. — Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Night-hawk. 

Falcons,  or  the  “noble”  birds  of  prey  used  for  hawk- 
ing, have  for  many  ages  been  objects  of  great  interest, 


and  still  continue  to  be  imported  from  distant  countries. 
The  Falco  communis,  or  peregrine  falcon,  is  so  generally 
dilfuscd  as  to  occur  even  in  New  Holland  and  South 
America.  As  a type  of  the  genus,  we  may  add  that  it  has 
the  two  foremost  quill-feathers  of  almost  equal  length, 
and  that  when  the  wings  arc  closed  they  nearly  reach 
the  end  of  the  tail.  On  each  side  of  the  crooked  point  of 
the  bill  there  is  an  angle  or  prominent  tooth,  and  from 
the  nostrils  backwards  a black  streak  passes  beneath  the 
eye  and  forms  a patch  on  each  side  of  the  throat,  giving 
the  bird  and  its  congeners  a whiskered  and  menacing 
aspect.  Next  we  may  place  Falco  A roeris,  the  sacred 
hawk  of  Egypt,  in  reality  the  same  as,  or  a mere  variety 
of  the  peregrine.  Innumerable  representations  of  it  oc- 
cur in  Egyptian  monuments,  in  the  character  of  Hor- 
hat,  or  bird  of  victory;  also  an  emblem  of  Ke,  the  Sun, 
and  numerous  other  divinities  (Sir  J.  G.  Wilkinson’s 
Manners  and  Customs  of  the  Ancient  Egyptians,  2d  se- 
ries). The  hobby,  Falco  subbuteo,  is  no  doubt  a second 
or  third  species  of  sacred  hawk,  having  similar  whiskers. 
Both  this  bird  and  the  tractable  merlin,  Falco  eesalon, 
are  used  in  the  falconry  of  the  inferior  Moslem  land-own- 
ers of  Asiatic  Turkey.  Besides  these,  the  kestril,  Falco 
tinnunculus,  occurs  in  Syria,  and  Falco  tinnunculoiiles,  or 
lesser  kestril,  in  Egypt ; and  it  is  probable  that  both 
species  visit  these  two  territories  according  to  the  sea- 
sons. To  these  we  may  add  the  gerfalcon,  Falco  gyr- 
falco,  which  is  one  third  larger  than  the  peregrine  : it 
is  imported  from  Tartary,  and  sold  at  Constantinople, 
Aleppo,  and  Damascus.  The  great  birds  fly  at  ante- 
lopes, bustards,  cranes,  etc.;  and  of  the  genus  A star, 
with  shorter  wings  than  true  falcons,  the  goshawk,  Falco 
palumbarins,  and  the  falcon  gentil,  Falco  gentilis,  are 
cither  imported,  or  taken  in  their  nests,  and  used  to  fly 
at  lower  and  aquatic  game.  It  is  among  the  above  that 
the  seven  species  of  limiting  hawks  enumerated  by  Dr. 
Russell  must  be  sought;  though, from  the  circumstance 
that  the  Arabic  names  of  the  birds  alone  were  known  to 
him,  it  is  difficult  to  assign  their  scientific  denomina- 
tions. The  smaller  and  less  powerful  hawks  of  the  ge- 
nus Nisus  are  mostly  in  use  on  account  of  the  sport  they 
afford,  being  less  fatiguing,  as  they  are  employed  to  fly 
at  pigeons,  partridges,  quails,  pterocles,  katta,  and  other 
species  of  ganga.  There  are  various  other  raptorial 
birds,  not  here  enumerated,  found  in  Sj’ria,  Arabia,  and 
Egypt. — Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Eagle;  Glede;  Kite;  Os- 
prey; Vulture. 

The  generic  character  of  the  Ileb.  word  nets  appears 
from  the  expression  in  Deut.  and  Lev.  “after  his  kind,” 
as  including  various  species  of  the  Falconidw,  with  more 
especial  allusion,  perhaps,  to  the  small  diurnal  birds, 
such  as  the  kestrel  ( Falco  tinninculus) , the  hobby  (II y- 
potriorchis  subbuteo),  the  gregarious  lesser  kestril  ( Tin- 
nunculus cenchris),  common  about  the  ruins  in  the  plain 
districts  of  Palestine,  all  of  which  were  probably  known 
to  the  ancient  Hebrews.  With  respect  to  the  passage 
in  Job  (1.  c.),  which  appears  to  allude  to  the  migratory 
habits  of  hawks,  it  is  curious  to  observe  that  of  the  ten 
or  twelve  lesser  raptors  of  Palestine,  nearly  all  are  sum- 
mer migrants.  The  kestrel  remains  all  the  year,  but  T. 
cenchris,  Micronisus  gabar,  Ilyp.  eleonoree,  and  F.  mela- 
nopterus,  are  all  migrants  from  the  south.  Besides  the 
above-named  smaller  hawks,  the  two  magnificent  spe- 
cies, F.  sacer  and  F.  lanarius,  are  summer  visitors  to  Pal- 
estine. These  two  species  of  falcons,  and  perhaps  the 
hobby  and  goshawk  (A  stur  palumbarins),  are  employed 
by  the  Arabs  in  Syria  and  Palestine  for  the  purpose  of 
taking  partridges,  sand-grouse,  quails,  herons,  gazelles, 
hares,  etc.  Dr.  Russell  (Nat.  Hist,  of  Aleppo,  ii,  196, 2d 
ed.)  has  given  the  Arabic  names  of  several  falcons,  but  it 
is  probable  that  some  at  least  of  these  names  apply  rath- 
er to  the  different  sexes  than  to  distinct  species.  See  a 
graphic  description  of  the  sport  of  falconry,  as  pursued 
by  the  Arabs  of  N.  Africa,  in  the  I bis,  i,  284.  No  rep- 
resentation of  such  a sport  occurs  on  the  monuments  of 
ancient  Egypt  (see  Wilkinson,  Anc.  Eg.  i,  221),  neither 
is  there  any  definite  allusion  to  falconry  in  the  Bible, 


HAWKER 


102 


HAWKS 


Falco  Facer. 

With  regard, however,  to  the  negative  evidence  supplied 
by  the  monuments  of  Egypt,  we  must  be  careful  ere  we 
draw  a conclusion,  for  the  camel  is  not  represented, 
though  we  have  Biblical  evidence  to  show  that  this  ani- 
mal was  used  by  the  Egyptians  as  early  as  the  time  of 
Abraham;  still,  as  instances  of  various  modes  of  cap- 
turing tisli,  game,  and  wild  animals  are  not  unfrequent 
on  the  monuments,  it  seems  probable  that  the  art  was 
not  known  to  the  Egyptians.  Nothing  definite  can  be 
learnt  from  the  passage  in  1 Sam. xxvi, 20,  which  speaks 
of  “ a partridge  hunted  on  the  mountains,”  as  this  may 
allude  to  the  method  of  taking  these  birds  by  throw- 
sticks,”  etc.  See  Partridge.  The  hind  or  hart.  “ pant- 
ing after  the  water-brooks”  (Psa.  xlii,  1)  may  appear  at 
first  sight  to  refer  to  the  mode  at  present  adopted  in 
the  East  of  taking  gazelles,  deer,  and  bustards  with  the 
united  aid  of  falcon  and  greyhound;  but,  as  Hengsten- 
berg  ( Comment . on  Psa.  1.  c.)  has  argued,  it  seems  pretty 
clear  that  the  exhaustion  spoken  of  is  to  be  understood 
as  arising,  not  from  pursuit,  but  from  some  prevailing 
drought,  as  in  Psa.  lxiii,  l,“My  sold  thirstetli  for  thee 
■in  a tin/  land."  (See  also  Joel  i,  20.)  The  poetical  ver- 
sion of  Brady  and  Tate, 

“As  pants  the  hart  for  cooling  streams 
When  heated  in  the  chase’” 

has  therefore  somewhat  prejudged  the  matter.  For  the 
question  as  to  whether  falconry'  was  known  to  the  an- 
cient (1  reeks,  see  Beckmann,  History  of  Inventions  (i, 
198-205,  Bohn’s  cd.). — Smith,  s.  v.  See  Falcon. 

Hawker,  Robert,  D.D.,  an  English  divine,  was 
born  at  Exeter,  England,  in  1753,  and  educated  at  Mag- 
dalen College,  Oxford,  lie  obtained  the  vicarage  of 
Charles,  Plymouth,  which  he  held  until  his  death  in 
1827,  with  the  respect  and  love  of  his  people.  In  doc- 
trine lie  was  a Calvinist,  with  a strong  Antinomian  ten- 
dency. 11  is  writings  are,  The  Poor  Man's  Commentary 
on  O.  and  X.  T.  (last  edit.  Bond.  3 vols.  4to) : — Sermons, 
Meditations , Lectures,  etc.,  included  in  his  Works,  icith  a 
Memoir  of  his  Life,  by  the  Rev.  J.  Williams,  D.D.  (Lond. 
1831,  10  vols.  8vo).  Sec  Burt,  Ohserr.  on  Dr.  Hawker's 
Theology ; Bennett,  Hist. of  Dissenters  (Lond.  1839),  p. 344. 

Hawkins,  William,  an  English  clergyman,  was 
bom  in  1722,  and  was  educated  at  Pembroke  College, 
Oxford,  where  he  became  fellow,  and  was  made  profess- 
or of  poetry  in  1751.  lie  was  afterwards  successively 
prebendary  of  Wells,  rector  of  Castcrton,  and  vicar  of 
Whitchurch,  Dorsetshire.  lie  died  in  1801.  He  pub- 
lished Discourses  on  Scripture  Mystem.es,  Bampton  Lec- 
tures for  1787  (Oxford,  1787,  8vo) ; and  a number  of 
occasional  sermons — Darling,  Cyclop.  Dibliographica,  i, 
1422 ; Allibone,  Dictionary  of  A nthors,  i,  804. 


Hawks,  Cicero  Stephen,  D.D.,  a bishop  of  the 
Protestant  Episcopal  Church,  was  born  at  Newbern,  N. 
C.,in  1812.  He  passed  A.B.  at  the  University  of  North 
Carolina  in  1830,  and  studied  law,  but  never  practised. 
In  1834  lie  was  ordained  deacon,  and  in  1835  priest,  in 
the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church.  His  first  parish  was 
Trinity  Church,  Saugcrties,  N.  Y.  (1836) ; in  1837  he  re- 
moved to  Buffalo,  N.  Y.,  and  shortly  afterwards  to  Christ 
Church,  St.  Louis,  Mo.  In  1844  he  was  consecrated 
bishop  of  the  diocese  of  Missouri,  hi  which  office  he  la- 
bored diligently  and  successfully  until  his  health  gave 
way.  He  died  at  St.  Louis  April  19, 1868. 

Hawks,  Francis  Lister,  D.D.,  an  eminent  min* 
ister  of  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church,  was  bom  at 
Newbern,  N.  C.,  June  10, 1798.  He  passed  A.B.  at  the 
University  ofNorth  Carolinain  1815 ; afterwards  studied 
law,  and  was  admitted  to  the  bar  hi  1819.  In  1823  he 
was  elected  to  the  Legislature  of  N.C.,  and  soon  became 
distinguished  for  eloquence.  After  a few  years  of  very 
successful  practice  as  a lawyer,  he  determined  to  enter 
the  ministry,  and  became  a student  under  Dr.  Green,  of 
Hillsboro’  (afterwards  bishop  Green).  In  1827  he  was 
ordained  deacon;  and  in  1829  became  assistant  to  Dr. 
Croswell,  rector  of  Trinity  Church,  New  Haven,  Conn. 
In  the  same  year  he  was  called  to  be  assistant  to  bishop 
White,  then  rector  of  St.  James’s  Church,  Philadelphia. 
In  1830  he  was  elected  professor  of  divinity  in  Wash- 
ington College  (now  Trinity),  Hartford,  Conn.;  in  1831 
he  became  rector  of  St.  Stephen’s,  New  York,  and  at  once 
was  recognised  as  among  the  chief  pulpit  orators  of  the 
city.  In  the  same  year  he  was  called  to  the  rectorship 
of  St.  Thomas’s  Church,  N.  Y.  In  1835  he  was  elected 
missionary  bishop  of  the  South-west,  but  declined  the 
appointment.  In  the  same  year  the  General  Conven- 
tion appointed  him  to  collect  documents  on  the  history 
of  the  Church,  and  to  act  as  conservator  of  the  same. 
He  spent  several  months  in  England  in  1836,  and  re- 
turned with  eighteen  folio  volumes  of  manuscript,  illus- 
trative of  the  planting  and  early  history  of  the  Protes- 
tant Episcopal  Church.  From  these  materials  he  pre- 
pared his  Contributions  to  the  Ecclesiastical  History  of 
the  United  States  (vol.  i,  Virginia,  1836 ; vol.  ii,  Mary- 
land, 1839).  It  is  greatly  to  he  regretted  that  Dr.  Hawks 
did  not  continue  this  valuable  work.  In  1837,  in  con- 
nection with  the  Rev.  C.  S.  Henry,  he  established  the 
New  York  Review,  a quarterly  journal  of  very  high  char- 
acter, of  which  ten  volumes  were  published.  In  1839 
he  founded  a school  called  St.  Thomas’s  Hall,  at  Flush- 
ing, L.  I.,  and  made  heavy  outlays  upon  the  buildings, 
grounds,  etc.,  which  involved  him  in  serious  financial 
embarrassments,  ending  in  the  ruin  of  the  school  in  1843. 
He  was  charged  with  extravagance,  if  not  with  dishon- 
esty ; but  no  one  now  believes  the  latter  charge.  How- 
ever, he  resigned  his  charge  of  St.  Thomas’s  Church, 
and  removed  to  Mississippi,  where  he  established  a school 
at  Holly  Springs.  In  1844  he  was  elected  bishop  of 
Mississippi ; objections  were  made  on  account  of  his 
troubles  in  connection  with  St.  Thomas's  Hall,  but  his 
vindication  was  so  complete  that  the  Convention  adopt- 
ed a resolution  declaring  his  innocence.  Nevertheless, 
he  declined  the  bishopric,  and  accepted  the  rectorship 
of  Christ  Church,  New  Orleans,  where  he  remained  for 
five  years,  during  part  of  which  time  he  served  as  pres- 
ident of  the  University  of  Louisiana.  In  1849  he  ac- 
cepted the  rectorship  of  the  Church  of  the  Mediator, 
New  York,  which  was  afterwards  merged  in  Calvary 
parish,  of  which  he  remained  rector  until  1862.  His 
friends  raised  $30,000  to  clear  his  church  of  debt,  and 
adjust  certain  old  claims  from  St. Thomas’s  Hall;  they 
also  settled  upon  him  a liberal  salary.  Here  lie  regain- 
ed his  old  prc-cmincnce  as  a preacher,  and  at  the  same 
time  devoted  himself  to  active  literary  labors.  In  1852 
he  was  elected  bishop  of  Rhode  Island,  but  declined  the 
office.  In  1862,  owing  to  differences  of  opinion  between 
him  and  his  parish  concerning  the  Civil  War,  he  resign- 
ed the  rectorship  of  Calvary ; and,  after  a short  stay  in 
Baltimore,  he  was  called  to  take  charge  of  the  new  par- 


HAWLEY 


103 


IIAYMO 


ish  of  Our  Saviour  in  New  York.  His  last  public  labor  | 
was  a service  at  the  laying  of  the  corner-stone  of  the 
new  church,  Sept.  4, 1866;  on  the  ‘26th  of  that  month  | 
he  died.  Dr.  Ilawks’s  writings  include,  besides  Law  lie- 
ports , the  following:  Contributions  to  the  Ecclesiastical 
History  of  the  United  States  (1836-39,  2 vols.  8vo): — 
Commentary  on  the  Constitution  and  Canons  of  the  Prot- 
estant Episcopal  Church  in  the  United  States  (1841, 8 vo)  : 
— Egypt  and  its  Monuments  (N.  Y.  1849, 8vo) : — Auricu- 
lar Confession  (1849,  12mo): — Documentary  History  of 
the  Prof.  E.  Church,  containing  Documents  concerning  the 
Church  in  Connecticut  (edited  in  connection  with  \Y.  S. 
Perry,  N.  Y.  1863-4,  2 vols.  8vo) ; besides  several  histor- 
ical and  juvenile  books.  He  also  contributed  largely  to 
the  New  York  Review,  the  Church  Record,  and  other  pe- 
riodicals.— Amer.  Quarterly  Church  Review,  1867,  art.  1 ; 
Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors,  i,  804.  ' 

Hawley,  Gideon,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
born  Nov.  5,  1727  (O.  S.),  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  He 
graduated  at  Yale  College  in  1749,  and,  having  entered 
the  ministry,  went  to  Stockbridge  in  1752  as  missionary 
to  the  Indians.  In  May,  1753,  in  company  with  Timo- 
thy 'Wood bridge,  he  started  through  the  wilderness,  and 
reached  the  Susquehanna  at  Onohoghgwage,  where  he 
planted  a mission,  but  was  compelled  to  leave  it  by  the 
French  War,  May,  1756.  Having  returned  to  Boston, 
he  went  as  chaplain  under  colonel  Gridley  to  Crown 
Point ; and  April  10,  1758,  was  installed  pastor  over  the 
Indians  at  Marshpee,  where  he  remained  until  his  death, 
Oct.  3,  1807. — Sprague,  Annals,  i,  495. 

Hay  (“‘S'A'n,  chatsir',  grass,  Job  viii,  12;  xl,  15; 
Psa.  civ,  14;  leeks,  Numb,  xi,  15;  also  a court-yard, 
Isa.  xxxiv,  13;  xxxv,  7;  Greek  x^prog,  fodder,  i.  e. 
grass  or  herbage.  Matt,  vi,  30,  etc.,  or  growing  grain, 
Matt,  xiii,  26,  etc.).  We  arc  not  to  suppose  that  this 
word,  as  used  in  the  Bible,  denotes  dried  grass,  as  it 
does  with  us.  The  management  of  grass  by  the  He- 
brews, as  food  for  cattle,  was  entirely  different  from 
ours.  Indeed,  hay  was  not  in  use,  straw  being  used  as 
provender.  The  grass  was  cut  green,  as  it  was  wanted ; 
and  the  phrase  mown-grass  (Psa.  lxxii,  6)  would  be 
more  properly  rendered  grass  that  has  just  been  fed  off. 
So  in  Prov.  xxvii,  25,  the  word  translated  hay  means 
the  first  shoots  of  the  grass;  and  the  whole  passage 
might  better  be  rendered,  “The  grass  appeareth,  and 
the  green  herb  slioweth  itself,  and  the  plants  of  the 
mountains  arc  gathered.”  In  Isa.  xv,  6,  hay  is  put  for 
grass.  In  summer,  when  the  plains  are  parched  with 
drought,  and  every  green  herb  is  dried  up,  the  nomades 
proceed  northwards,  or  into  the  mountains,  or  to  the 
banks  of  rivers ; and  in  winter  and  spring,  when  the 
rains  have  reclothed  the  plains  with  verdure,  and  filled 
the  water-courses,  they  return. — Bastow.  See  Grass; 
Leek:  Fuel;  Mowing, 

Haydn,  Joseph,  one  of  the  greatest  composers  of 
Church  music  in  modern  times,  was  born  March  31, 1732, 
at  Rohvan,  in  Austria.  The  son  of  parents  who  were 
very  fond  of  music,  he  showed  from  his  earliest  youth  a 
remarkable  talent  for  the  art.  He  studied  first  with  a 
relative  in  Haimburg;  and,  from  his  eighth  to  his  six- 
teenth year,  he  was  in  the  choir  of  St.  Stephen’s  Cathe- 
dral at  Vienna.  After  this,  for  a time,  he  supported 
himself  by  giving  private  instruction.  The  first  six 
piano-sonatas  of  Era.  Bach  fell  into  his  hands  by  acci- 
dent, and  filled  him  with  enthusiasm.  The  celebrated 
Italian  singer  Porpora,  whom  he  accompanied  on  the 
piano  in  musical  circles,  introduced  him  into  the  high- 
est classes  of  society.  Encouraged  from  all  sides,  he 
wrote  several  quartettes  (which,  however,  did  not  es- 
cape censure)  and  trios,  and  his  first  opera,  Der  hin- 
kewle  Teufel,  for  which  he  received  24  ducats.  In  1759 
he  received  from  count  Morzin  an  appointment  as  mu- 
sical director,  and  soon  after  contracted  a marriage, 
which,  however,  remained  without  children,  and  was,  in 
general,  not  a happy  one.  In  1760  he  was  appointed  by 


prince  Esterhazy  as  chapel-master,  which  position  al- 
lowed him  for  thirty  years  to  give  free  play  to  his  music- 
al genius.  During  this  time,  which  was  mostly  spent  at 
Eisenstadt,  Hungary,  or  (during  winter  months)  in  Vi- 
enna, he  composed  most  of  his  symphonies,  many  quar- 
tettes, trios,  etc.,  103  compositions  for  the  baryton  (the 
favorite  instrument  of  the  prince),  eighteen  operas,  the 
oratorio  II  Ritomo  di  Tobia  (1774),  fifteen  masses  and 
other  ecclesiastical  works,  music  for  Goethe’s  “Glitz 
von  Berlichingcn,”  and  the  composition  of  the  “ Seven 
Words,”  which  in  1795  was  ordered  from  Cadiz  as  an  in- 
strumental composition  to  be  played  between  the  lessons 
of  the  Seven  Words.  Dismissed  from  his  position  after 
the  death  of  prince  Esterhazy  (1790),  but  retaining  his 
title  and  his  salary,  he  went  as  concert  director  to  Lon- 
don, where  he  attained  the  zenith  of  his  artistic  career. 
During  his  two  stays  in  London  (1790-92  and  1794-95) 
he  wrote  the  operas  Orfeo  and  Eurydice,  his  1 2 so-called 
English  symphonies,  quartettes,  and  other  works.  He 
was  constantly  employed  as  leader  in  concerts  ami  socie- 
ties, and  was  overwhelmed  with  marks  of  love  and  af- 
fection. After  returning  to  Vienna,  he  composed,  in  1797, 
his  great  oratorio  The  Creation,  which  was  finished  in 
April,  1798,  and  produced  for  the  first  time  on  March  19, 
1799,  in  Vienna,  and  soon  after  in  all  the  large  cities  of 
Europe,  with  immense  applause.  It  remains  to  this  day 
the  greatest  of  sacred  oratorios,  except  Handel’s  Mes- 
siah. In  the  mean  while  he  finished  his  last  oratorio, 
The  four  Seasons  (text  by  Van  Swieten  after  Thomson), 
which  was  produced  for  the  first  time  April  24,  1801. 
He  died  May  31, 1809.  According  to  a list  of  his  works, 
prepared  by  Haydn  himself,  they  comprise  118  sympho- 
nies, 83  quartettes,  24  trios,  19  operas,  5 oratorios,  163 
compositions  for  the  baryton,  24  concerts  for  different 
instruments,  15  masses,  44  piano  souatas,  42  German  and 
Italian  hymns,  39  canons,  10  Church  compositions,  13 
songs  in  three  or  four  parts,  the  harmony  and  the  ac- 
companiment for  305  old  Scotch  airs,  and  several  smaller 
pieces.  In  the  library  of  the  Esterhazy  family  at  Eisen- 
stadt, many  unpublished  manuscripts  arc  said  to  be  still 
extant.  See  Framcry,  Notice  sur  J.  II.  (Paris,  1810); 
Pohl,  Mozart  and  Ilaydn  in  London  (Vienna,  1867,  2 
vols.).  (A.  J.  S.) 

Hay  mo,  Haimon,  Haimo,  or  Aimo,  a theolo- 
gian of  the  9th  century,  the  place  of  whose  birth  (about 
A.D.  778)  is  uncertain.  In  his  youth  he  embraced  the 
rule  of  St.  Benedict  in  the  abbey  of  Fulda;  afterwards 
he  studied  under  Alenin,  at  St.  Martin  of  Tours,  with 
Rabauus  Maurus.  He  then  appears  successively  as 
teacher  at  Fulda,  as  abbot  of  Ilirschfeld,  in  the  diocese 
of  Mentz,  and  finally  bishop  of  Halberstadt  (Saxony) 
in  841.  He  was  present  at  the  Council  of  Mentz  in 
847,  and  died  March  23  (or  26),  853.  His  writings, 
which  are  chiefly  compilations  from  the  fathers,  enjoy- 
ed great  reputation;  they  consist  of,  Glossic  continual 
super  Psalterium  (Colon.  1523,  8vo;  1561,  8vo) : — In 
Cantica  Canticorum  (Colon.  1519,  fol. ; Worms,  1631, 
8vo,  etc.): — Glossai  in  Isaium  (Colon,  and  Paris,  1531. 
8vo) : — Glossai  in  Jeremiam,  Ezechielem,  et  Danielem  (so 
scarce  that  some  doubt  their  having  been  printed  at 
all) : — In  duodecim  Prophet  as  minores  (Colon.  1519,  et 
al.) : — ilomilue  super  Erangelia  totius  ami  (Colon.  1531 ; 
Paris,  1533;  Antw.  1559)  : — In  Epistolas  S.  Pauli  (now 
generally  supposed,  however,  to  lie  by  St.  Rcniv  of  Au- 
xerre)  : — Super  A pocalypsim  Explanatio  (Colon,  and 
Paris,  1531,  8vo) : — De  Corpore  et  Sanguine  Christ i 
(D’Acherv,  Spicilegium,  i,  42) : — De  varietate  librontm 
tres  libri  (Paris  and  Colon.  1531, 8vo) : — Breviarium  His- 
tories ecclesiastical  (Colon.  1531,  8 vo;  often  reprinted). 
Other  works  have  been  ascribed  to  him  by  Johannes 
Trithemius, but  it  is  not  certain  that  they  were  by  him; 
and,  at  any  rate,  they  are  now  lost.  His  writings  are  col- 
lected in  Migne,  Patrol.  Latina,  vols.  cxvi,  exvii,  cxviii. 
See  Lelong,  Bib!.  Sacra ; Trithemius,  De  eccles.  Script. ; 
Hist,  litter,  de  la  Frunce,  v,  1 1 1-126 ; Hoefer,  None.  Biog. 
Gener.  xxiii,  121 ; Clarke,  Succession  of  Sac.  Literature, 
ii,  506;  Mosheim,  Ch.  History,  cent,  ix,  pt.  ii,  ch.  ii,  n.  50. 


104 


HAZAEL 


HAYNES 

Haynes,  Lemuel,  a Congregational  minister  of 
New  England,  a mulatto.  He  was  born  at  West  Hart- 
ford, Conn.,  July  1*.  1753,  and  was  educated  in  the  fam- 
ily of  Mr.  Hose, "of  Granville,  Mass.  In  1774  he  enlisted 
ill  the  Continental  army,  and  in  1775  was  in  the  expe- 
dition  against  Ticonderoga.  Soon  after  this  he  com- 
menced study  with  the  Rev.  Daniel  Ferrand,  and  on 
Xov.  7, 17*0,  his  credentials  as  a minister  were  granted. 
Soon  afterwards  he  received  a call  to  take  charge  of 
the  Granville  church.  Here  he  labored  five  years  with 
great  acceptability.  In  1783  he  married  Miss  Elizabeth 
Rabbit,  a white  lady  of  good  intellect  and  sincere  piety. 
Soon  after  this  he  was  ordained,  and  went  to  Farming- 
ton,  Conn.,  and  thence  to  Vermont,  and  spent  thirty 
years  as  pastor  of  a Congregational  church  at  Rutland, 
whence  he  removed  to  Manchester,  where  he  was  in- 
volved in  a very  singular  and  noted  trial  for  murder,  not 
as  accomplice,  but  as  a defender  of  the  accused.  In  1822 
lie  was  called  to  the  charge  of  the  church  in  Granville, 
X.  Y.,  an  offshoot  of  the  former  in  Massachusetts.  Here 
lie  remained  till  his  death  in  September,  1834.  Mr. 
Haynes  was  characterized  from  early  life  by  a swift  and 
subtle  intellect,  anil  a restless  thirst  for  knowledge.  He 
read  Greek  and  Latin  with  critical  accuracy.  His  wit 
was  proverbial  and  refined.  In  Vermont  he  was  very 
successful  in  opposing  infidelity.  51  any  anecdotes  of 
his  shrewd  anil  sensible  wit  are  on  record.  — Sher- 
man, N ew  England  Divines,  p.  267 ; Sprague,  Annals,  ii, 
176. 

Hayti,  a name  sometimes  given  to  the  second  lar- 
gest island  in  the  West  Indies.  The  more  usual  name 
is  Ean  Domingo,  under  which  head  all  that  is  common 
to  the  whole  island  will  be  treated.  Hayti  proper  is  the 
western  and  French-speaking  part  of  the  island,  which 
in  18US  was  organized  as  a separate  commonwealth 
under  president  Christophe,  who  in  1811  had  himself 
crowned  as  hereditary  emperor  under  the  name  of  Henry 
I.  In  1*22  the  French  and  the  Spanish  portions  of  the 
island  were  again  united  into  one  republic  under  gen- 
eral Royer.  This  union  lasted  until  1844,  when  not 
only  the  Spanish  portion  became  again  an  independent 
state,  but  the  French  part  split  into  two,  which  were 
harassed  by  almost  uninterrupted  conflicts  between  the 
blacks  and  the  mulattoes.  The  brief  and  beneficent  ad- 
ministration of  general  Richer  (1846-47)  was  followed 
by  that  of  general  Faustin  Soulouque,  who  undertook  an 
unfortunate  campaign  against  the  Dominicans,  and  in 
August,  1*40,  proclaimed  himself  emperor,  under  the 
name  of  Faustin  1.  lie  was  in  1*58  overthrown  ly 
general  Goffrard,  who,  as  president,  introduced  many 
reforms,  and  was,  in  t uni,  overthrown  in  February,  1*67, 
by  Salnave,  under  whose  administration  the  country 
was  disturbed  by  uninterrupted  civil  wars,  until  his 
overthrow  and  execution,  January,  1*70. 

The  area  of  the  republic  is  estimated  at  10,205  square 
miles,  t lie  population  at  about  570,000.  Nominally  near- 
ly the  entire  population  belongs  to  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church;  but,  even  according  to  Roman  Catholic  writers, 
many  of  the  population  are  even  to-day  more  pagan 
than  Christian.  The  frightful  religious  and  moral  con- 
dition of  the  people  is  attributed  by  Roman  Catholic 
writers  to  the  habit  of  the  French  government  of  not  es- 
tablishing regular  bishoprics,  but  of  leaving  the  adminis- 
tration of  ecclesiastical  affairs  in  the  hands  of  apostolical 
prefects,  who  had  neither  the  influence  nor  the  power  of 
bishops,  were  more  dependent  upon  the  colonial  govern- 
ment, and  could  not  defend  the  interests  of  the  Church 
and  of  religion  against  the  secular  power  and  the  plant- 
ers, who  were  chiefly  intent  on  making  the  most  out  of 
slave  labor.  The  care  of  the  parishes  was,  before  the 
beginning  of  the  French  rule,  almost  exclusively  in  the 
hands  of  the  Capuchins  and  Dominicans.  In  1703  the 
( ’apnehins  left  their  parishes,  and  were  succeeded  by  the 
Jesuits,  who  took  charge  of  the  districts  from  Somalia  to 
the  Atrabonite,  while  the  Dominicans  assumed  the  ad- 
ministration of  those  from  the  Atrabonite  to  CapcTibu- 
run.  Secular  priests  were  left  only  in  the  churches  of 


Vache  Island.  When  the  Jesuits  were  expelled  in  1763, 
they  were  again  followed  by  the  Capuchins.  During  the 
Avar  of  independence  nearly  all  the  churches  were  closed, 
and  the  celebration  of  divine  service  was  almost  whol- 
ly suspended;  but,  the  Avar  being  ended,  the  Constitu- 
tion of  1807  declared  the  Catholic  Church  the  only  form 
of  religion  recognised  by  the  gOA’emment,  and  Chris- 
tophe, by  a decree  issued  in  1811,  announced  the  es- 
tablishment of  one  archbishopric  and  three  bishoprics. 
The  pope  Avas  asked  to  sanction  this  arrangement,  but, 
OAving  to  the  death  of  Christophe,  which  occurred  soon 
after,  and  to  other  causes,  the  plan  Avas  never  carried 
out.  In  1822,  Avhen  the  whole  island  Avas  under  one 
government,  the  archbishop  of  San  Domingo  appoint- 
ed for  the  Avestern  part  tAVO  A'icars  general,  of  Avliom  the 
one  resided  at  Cape  Flayti,  and  the  other  at  Port-au- 
Prinee.  In  1827  Pope  Leo  XII  again  conferred  upon 
the  archbishop  of  San  Domingo  the  jurisdiction  over  the 
Avhole  island;  but  the  religious  condition  of  the  people 
greAv  Avorse  and  Avorse.  There  Avas  an  almost  absolute 
Avant  of  priests,  and  the  feAV  avIio  Avere  to  be  found  were 
mostly  Avort bless  characters,  aa'Iio  had  for  immoral -con- 
duct been  expelled  from  other  dioceses.  In  1842,  bishop 
Rosati,  of  St. Louis,  AA*as  commissioned  by  pope  Gregory 
XVI  to  visit  Hayti,  and,  as  apostolical  delegate,  to  con- 
clude a Concordat  Avitli  president  Royer ; but  this  step 
also  Avas  t Invar  ted  by  the  OATerthroAv  of  his  administra- 
tion (1843).  The  emperor  Soulouque  protected  and  en- 
doAved  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  but  at  the  same 
time  introduced  religious  toleration,  and  thus  enabled 
Protestant  missionaries  to  organize  a feAV  missions.  In 
1852  pope  Pius  IX  sent  bishop  Spaccapietra  to  Hayti  to 
make  another  effort  to  conclude  a Concordat.  The  mis- 
sion Avas  again  unsuccessful ; and  in  an  allocution  of 
Dee.  19,  1853,  the  pope  complained  that  the  emperor 
and  lus  government  had  a false  idea  concerning  the 
Church,  and  that,  as  a great  portion  of  the  clergy  were 
umvilliiig  to  adopt  a strict  rule  of  life,  the  bishop  Avas 
compelled  to  leave  the  country.  Negotiations  Avith 
president  Geffrard  Avere  more  successful,  and  on  Sept, 
16,  1861,  a Concordat  Avas  promulgated.  According  to 
it,  one  archbishopric  (Port-au-rrince)  and  four  bishop- 
rics (Les  Caves,  Cape  Hayti,  Gonaives,  and  Port  de  Paix) 
Avere  established  in  1862;  the  archbishop  (a  French- 
man, Testard  dn  Cosquer)  was  appointed  in  1863,  hut 
none  of  the  four  episcopal  sees  had  been  filled  up  to  Jan- 
uary, 1870.  The  number  of  parishes  is  49.  For  pub- 
lic education  very  little  lias  as  yet  been  done.  There 
Avere  in  1868  about  150  public  scliot Is,  Avitli  about  13,000 
pupils. 

The  Protestant  Episcopal  Church  of  the  United  States 
sustained  in  December,  1869,  missionaries  at  Port-au- 
Prince,  Cabaret  Quatre,  and  at  Cape  Haytien.  In  Port- 
au-Prince  a church  and  a rectory  Avere  erected  in  1868 ; 
the  missions  of  this  place  and  of  Cabaret  Quatre  had  to- 
gether, in  May,  1869, 102  communicants. 

The  English  Weslcyans,  avIio  Avere  the  first  Protes- 
tant body  to  establish  a Protestant  mission  in  Hayti, 
had  in  1868  6 circuits,  6 chapels,  4 other  preaching- 
places,  210  members,  and  about  890  regular  attendants 
on  public  worship. — Neher,  Kirchl.  Geogr.  mid  Statistic, 
vol.  iii,  1869.  (A.J.S.) 

Ha'zael  (Ileb.  Chazael’,  also  whom 

God  beholds,  i.  e.  cares  for;  Sept.  ’AZai)\,  Vulg.  JIazael, 
but  Azael  in  Amos  i,  4:  hence  Latin  Azelus,  Justin, 
xxxvi,  2),  an  officer  of  Benhadad,  king  of  Syria,  Avliose 
eventual  accession  to  the  throne  of  that  kingdom  Avas 
revealed  to  Elijah  (1  Kings  xix,  15),  B.C.  cir.  907 ; and 
avIio,  Avlien  Elisha  AA*as  at  Damascus,  was  sent  by  his 
master,  avIio  was  then  ill,  to  consult  the  prophet  respect- 
ing his  recovery  (2  Kings  viii,  8).  B.C.  cir.  884.  He 
AA-as  folloAved  by  forty  camels  bearing  presents  from  the 
king.  The  ansAver  AA-as,  that  he  might  certainly  recover. 
“ IIoAA’beit,”  added  the  prophet,  “the  Lord  hath  shoAved 
me  that  he  shall  surely  die.”  He  then  looked  steadfast- 
ly at  Hazael  till  lie  became  confused,  on  Avliich  the  man 


HAZAIAH 


105 


IIAZARMAVETH 


of  God  wept ; and  when  Hazacl  respectfully  inquired 
the  cause  of  this  outburst,  Elisha  replied  by  describing 
the  vivid  picture  then  present  to  his  mind  of  all  the 
evils  which  the  man  now  before  him  would  inflict  upon 
Israel.  Ilazael  exclaimed,  “ But  what  is  thy  servant, 
the  [not  a]  dog,  that  he  should  do  this  great  thing V” 
The  prophet  explained  that  it  was  as  king  of  Syria  he 
shoidd  do  it.  Ilazael  then  returned,  and  delivered  to 
his  master  that  portion  of  the  prophetic  response  which 
was  intended  for  him.  But  the  very  next  day  this  man, 
cool  and  calculating  in  his  cruel  ambition,  took  a thick 
cloth,  and,  having  dipped  it  in  water,  spread  it  over  the 
face  of  the  king,  who,  in  his  feebleness,  and  probably  in 
his  sleep,  was  smothered  by  its  weight,  and  died  what 
seemed  to  his  people  a natural  death  (2  Kings  viii,  15). 
We  are  not  to  imagine  that  such  a project  as  this  was 
conceived  and  executed  in  a day,  or  that  it  was  suggest- 
ed by  the  words  of  Elisha.  Ilis  discomposure  at  the 
earnest  gaze,  of  the  prophet,  and  other  circumstances, 
show  that  Hazael  at  that  moment  regarded  Elisha  as 
one  to  whom  his  secret  purposes  were  known.  (See 
Kitto’s  Daily  Bible  Illust.  ad  loc.). — Kitto,  s.  v.  lie  was 
soon  engaged  in  hostilities  with  Aliaziah,  king  of  Judah, 
and  Jehoram,  king  of  Israel,  for  the  possession  of  the 
city  of  Ramoth-gilead  (2  Kings  viii,  28).  The  Assyrian 
inscriptions  show  that  about  this  time  a bloody  and 
destructive  war  -was  waged  between  the  Assyrians  on 
the  one  side,  and  the  Syrians,  Hittites,  Hamathites,  and 
Phoenicians  on  the  other.  See  Cuneiform  Inscrip- 
tions. Benliadad  (q.  v.)  had  recently  suffered  several 
severe  defeats  at  the  hands  of  the  Assyrian  king,  and 
upon  the  accession  of  Hazael  the  war  was  speedily  re- 
newed. Hazael  took  up  a position  in  the  fastnesses  of 
the  Anti-Libanus,  but  was  there  attacked  by  the  Assyr- 
ians, who  defeated  him  with  great  loss,  killing  16,000  of 
his  warriors,  and  capturing  more  than  1100  chariots. 
Three  years  later  the  Assyrians  once  more  entered  Syria 
in  force;  but  on  this  occasion  Hazael  submitted,  and 
helped  to  furnish  the  invaders  with  supplies.  After 
this,  internal  troubles  appear  to  have  occupied  the  at- 
tention of  the  Assyrians,  who  made  no  more  expeditions 
into  these  parts  for  about  a century.  The  Syrians  rap- 
idly recovered  their  losses,  and  towards  the  close  of  the 
reign  of  Jehu,  Hazael  led  them  against  the  Israelites 
(B.C.  cir.  860),  whom  he  “ smote  in  all  their  coasts”  (2 
Kings  x,  32),  thus  accomplishing  the  prophecy  of  Elisha 
(2  Kings  viii,  12).  His  main  attack  fell  upon  the  east- 
ern provinces,  where  he  ravaged  “ all  the  land  of  Gilead, 
the  Gadites,  a fid  the  Eeubenites,  and  the  Manassites, 
from  Aroer,  which  is  by  the  river  Arnon,  even  Gilead 
and  Bashan”  (2  Kings  x,  33).  After  this  he  seems  to 
have  held  the  kingdom  of  Israel  in  a species  of  subjec- 
tion (2  Kings  xiii,  3-7,  and  22),  and  towards  the  close 
of  his  life  he  even  threatened  the  kingdom  of  Judah. 
Having  taken  Gath  (2  Kings  xii,  17 ; comp.  Amos  vi, 
2),  he  proceeded  to  attack  Jerusalem,  defeated  the  Jews 
in  an  engagement  (2  Chron.  xxiv,  24),  and  was  about  to 
assault  the  city,  when  Joash  induced  him  to  retire  by 
presenting  him  with  “ all  the  gold  that  was  found  in  the 
treasures  of  the  house  of  the  Lord,  and  in  the  king’s 
house”  (2  Kings  xii,  18). — Smith,  s.  v.  This  able  and 
successful,  but  unprincipled  usurper  left  the  throne  at  his 
death  to  his  son  Benhadad  (2  Kings  xiii,  2-1).  B.C.  cir. 
835.  Such  was  the  prosperity  and  influence  of  his  reign 
that  the  phrase  “ house  of  Hazael”  occurs  in  prophet- 
ical denunciation  (Amos  i,  4)  as  a designation  of  the 
kingdom  of  Damascene  Syria.  See  Damascus. 

Haza'i'ah  (Hcb.  Chazayah rPtri,  whom  Jehovah 
beholds ; Sept.  ’0£t«),  son  of  Adaiah  and  father  of  Col- 
hozeh,  a descendant  of  Pharez  (Neh.  xi,  5).  B.C.  con- 
siderably ante  536. 

Hazar-  (also  I Luzon-)  is  frequently  prefixed  to  ge- 
ographical names,  in  order  to  indicate  their  dependence 
as  villages  (“ILSH,  chatser',  a hamlet;  see  Village)  upon 
some  town  or  other  noted  spot,  or  in  order  to  distinguish 
them  from  it ; e.  g.  those  following.  “ The  word  Hazar , 


when  joined  to  places  situated  in  the  desert  or  on  the 
outskirts  of  the  inhabited  country,  as  it  frequently  is, 
probably  denoted  a piece  of  ground  surrounded  by  a 
rude  but  strong  fence,  where  tents  coidd  be  pitched,  and 
cattle  kept  in  safety  from  marauders.  Such  places  are 
very  common  at  the  present  day  in  the  outlying  dis- 
tricts of  Palestine.  In  other  cases  Hazar  may  denote  a 
4 castle’  or  ‘ fortified  town’  ” (Kitto).  Comp.  IIazer. 

Haz'ar  - ad'dar  (Heb.  Chatsar'- A ddar',  nxn 
“nX,  village  of  Addar;  Sept.  t7rav\ig  ’Apad,  v.  r.  ’Ao- 
dapd  and  Sdpada),  a place  on  the  southern  bounda- 
ry of  Palestine,  between  Kadesli-Barnea  and  Azmon 
(Numb,  xxxiv,  4)  ; elsewhere  called  simply  Adau 
(Josh,  xv,  3).  Sec  Hazehiji.  It  probably  lay  in  the 
desert  west  of  Kadesh-Barnca  (q.  v.),  perhaps  at  the 
junction  of  wadys  El-Fukreh  and  El-Madurah,  east  of 
Jebel  Madurali.  See  Tribe.  Rev.  J.  Rowlands  thought 
he  discovered  both  this  locality  and  that  of  the  adjoin- 
ing Azmon  in  the  fountains  which  he  calls  A deirat  and 
Aseimet,  west  of  wady  el-Arish  (Williams,  Holy  City , 
i,  467) ; but  the  names  are  more  correctly  Kudeirat  and 
Knsaimet,  and  the  locality  is  too  far  west. 

Ha'zar-e'nan  (Heb.  Chatsar' -Eynan' , “ixn, 

village  of  fountains , also  [in  Ezek.  xlvii,  17]  IIa'zar- 
e'xon,  Chatsar' -Eynon' , ] 2 “ V “I!”,  id.;  Sept.  ’Aotp- 
vaiv  or  i)  avXi ) rou  Aivdv),  a place  on  the  boundary 
of  Palestine,  apparently  at  the  north-eastern  corner, 
between  Ziphron  and  Shepham  (Numb,  xxxiv,  0,  10), 
not  far  from  the  district  of  Hamath,  in  Damascene 
Syria  (Ezek.  xlvii,  17 ; xlviii,  1).  Schwarz  ( Palestine , 
p.  20,  note)  thinks  it  identical  with  the  village  Deir- 
Ilarnn,  in  the  valley  of  the  Fijeh  or  Amana,  near  Da- 
mascus; but  there  is  no  probability  that  this  was  in- 
cluded within  the  limits  of  Canaan.  “Porter  would 
identify  Hazar-enan  with  Kuryetein=(  the  two  cities,’ 
a village  more  than  sixty  miles  east-north-east  of  Da- 
mascus, the  chief  ground  for  the  identification  appar- 
ently being  the  presence  at  Kuryetcin  of ‘large  foun- 
tains,’ the  only  ones  in  that  ‘ vast  region,’  a circumstance 
with  which  the  name  of  Hazar-enan  well  agrees  (Da- 
mn sens,  i,  252 ; ii,  358).  The  great  distance  from  Da- 
mascus and  the  body  of  Palestine  is  the  main  impedi- 
ment to  the  reception  of  this  identification”  (Smith). 
We  must  therefore  seek  for  Hazar-enan  somewhere  in 
the  well-watered  tract  at  the  north-western  foot  of  Mount 
Hermon,  perhaps  the  present  Hasbeya,  near  which  are 
foiur  springs  (Ain  Kunieb,  A.  Tinta,  A.  Ata,  and  A.  Her- 
sha).  See  Haspeya. 

Ha'zar-gad'dah  (Ileb.  Chatsar'-Gaddah', 
iTTna,  village  of  fortune ; Sept.  ‘Aatpyaced  v.  r.  Stpiip), 
a city  on  the  southern  border  of  Judah,  mentioned  be- 
tween Moladah  and  Heshmon  (Josh,  xv,  27).  Modem 
writers  (see  Reland,  Pala’st.  p.  707),  following  the  sug- 
gestion of  Jerome  ( Onomast . s.  v. ; who,  as  suggested  by 
Schwarz,  Palestine,  p.  100,  has  probably  confounded  this 
place  with  En-Gedi),  have  sought  lbr  it  near  the  Dead 
Sea-;  but  the  associated  names  appear  to  locate  it  nearer 
midway  towards  the  Mediterranean.  See  Haze  rim. 
Mr.  Grove  suggests  (Smith,  Diet.  s.  v.)  that  it  is  possibly 
the  modem  ruined  site  marked  as  Jurrah  on  Van  de 
Velde’s  Map,  west  of  el-Melh  (Moladah),  “ by  the  change 
so  frequent  in  the  East  (?)  of  D.  to  K.”  See  Judah, 
Tribe  of. 

Ha'zar-hat'ticon  (Hebrew  Chatsar'  hat-Tikon', 
yilir.fi  “im  hamlet  of  the  mklicay,  q.  d.  middle  village  ; 
Sept,  confusedly  Eecrdiv  Kai  too  E vvuv  v.  r.  au\>)  rov 
Savvdv,  Vulg.  domus  Tichon),  a place  on  the  northern 
boundary  of  Palestine,  near  Hamath,  and  in  the  confines 
of  Hauran  (Ezek.  xlvii,  16) ; apparently,  therefore,  on 
the  northern  brow  of  Mount  Hermon,  which  may  have 
given  origin  to  the  name  as  a point  of  division  between 
Coele-Syria  and  Damascene  Syria.  It  is  possibly  only 
an  epithet  of  the  Hazor  (q.  v.)  of  Naphtali. 

Hazajma'veth  (Hebrew  Chatsar  - ma'veth, 


106 


HAZEL 


IIAZAR-SIIUAL 

r* court  of  death ; Sept.  XappwS  and  ’A  pa  pm. 
Vuljr.  .1  sarmot/L),  the  name  of  the  third  son  of  Joktan, 
or,  rather,  of  a district  of  Arabia  Felix  settled  by  him 
(Gen.  x,  20;  1 Chron.  i,  20) ; supposed  to  be  preserved 
in  the  modern  province  of  Hadramaut,  situated  on  the 
Indian  Ocean,  and  abounding  in  frankin cense,  myrrh, 
and  aloe;  but  (as  intimated  in  the  ominous  name)  noted 
for  the  insalubritv  of  the  climate  (Ahulfeda,  Arabia,  p. 
45 ; Niebuhr,  Besclirieb.  dtr  Arab.  p.  2X3 ; Hitter,  Erdl;. 
XI  iii,  OUD).  It  ivas  known  also  to  the  classical  Avritcrs 
( Xaroa/uoTtiTai , xvi,  708;  Xarpappiren  or  Xarpapuj- 
rirai,  l'tol.  vi,  7,  25:  A tramitie,  Dion.  Perie g.  957 ; Xa- 
TpafiwTiriip,  Stepli.  Byz.  p.  755). — Winer;  Gesenius. 
This  ill ent ideation  of  the  locality  rests  not  only  on  the 
occurrence  of  the  name,  but  is  supported  by  the  proved 
fact  that  Joktan  settled  in  the  Yemen,  along  the  south 
coast  of  Arabia,  by  the  physical  characteristics  of  the 
inhabitants  of  this  region,  and  by  the  identification  of 
the  names  of  several  others  of  the  sons  of  Joktan.  The 
province  of  Hadramaut  is  situated  east  of  the  modern 
Yemen  (aneiently,  as  shown  in  the  article  Arabia,  the 
limits  of  the  latter  province  embraced  almost  the  whole 
of  the  south  of  the  peninsula),  extending  to  the  districts 
of  Shihr  and  Mahreli.  Its  capital  is  Shibam,  a very 
ancient  eity,  of  which  the  native  writers  give  curious 
accounts,  and  its  chief  ports  are  Mirbat,  Zafari  [see  Se- 
X’Har],  and  Kishim,  wlienee  a great  trade  was  carried 
on  in  ancient  times  with  India  and  Africa.  Hadramaut 
itself  is  generally  cultivated,  in  contrast  with  the  contig- 
uous sandy  deserts  (called  El-Ahkaf,  where  lived  the 
gigantic  race  of  Ad),  is  partly  mountainous,  with  wa- 
tered valleys,  and  is  still  eelebrated  for  its  frankincense 
(Kl-Idrisi,  ed.  Jomard,  i,  54;  Niebuhr,  Descrip,  p.  245), 
exporting  also  gum-arabic,  myrrh,  dragon’s  blood,  and 
aloes,  the  latter,  however,  being  chietlv  from  Socotra, 
which  is  under  the  rule  of  the  sheik  of  Keshint  (Nie- 
buhr, 1.  e.  sq.).  The  early  kings  of  Hadramaut  were 
Joktanites,  distinct  trom  the  descendants  of  Yaarub,  the 
progenitor  of  the  Joktanite  Arabs  generally;  and  it  is 
hence  to  be  inferred  that  they  were  separately  descend- 
ed from  Ilazarmavcth.  They  maintained  their  inde- 
pendence against  the  powerful  kings  of  Ilimver  until 
the  latter  were  subdued  at  the  Abyssinian  invasion 
(I bn-Klialdfin,  op.  Caussin,  Essen,  i,  135  sq.).  The  mod- 
ern people,  although  mixed  with  other  raees,  are  strong- 
ly characterized  by  fierce,  fanatical,  and  restless  dispo- 
sitions. They  are  enterprising  merchants,  well  known 
for  their  trading  and  travelling  propensities. — Smith, 
s.  v. 

Ha'zar-shu'al  (Hebrew  Chatsar' - Shnal’ , 

village  of  the  jackal;  Sept.  ’AoapoovXd,  ’EtTfp- 
coveiA  and  ’AfffpcwdX),  a eity  on  the  southern  border 
of  Judah  (Josh,  xv,  28;  Nell,  xi,  26,  where  it  is  men- 
tioned between  Hetli-palet  and  Beer-slieba),  afterwards 
included  in  the  territory  of  Simeon  (Josh,  xix,  3;  1 
Chron.  iv,  28,  where  it  is  mentioned  between  Moladali 
and  Balah);  hence  probably  midway  between  the  Dead 
Sea  and  the  Mediterranean.  See  IIazerim.  Yan  de 
Velde,  on  his  Map.  conjectures  the  site  to  be  that  of 
the  ruins  Saw  eh,  wliieli  lie  locates  nearly  half  way  be- 
tween Becr-sheba  and  Moladali.  But  see  Siikma. 

Ha'zar-su'sah  (Hebrew  Chatsar'- Susah',  "tan 
village  of  the  horse,  Josh,  xix,  5;  Sept.  ’A atp- 
aovaij.i,  Vulg.  JJasersusn),  or  IIA'ZAH-SU'SIM  ( Chat - 
sar'-Susim',  “iXFt,  village  of  horses,  1 Chron.  iv, 

3] ; Sept,  i/piav  S<o<ri/<,Ynlg.  Hasersusim),  a city  of  the 
tribe  of  Simeon,  mentioned  between  Beth-mareaboth 
and  Both-lebaoth  or  Beth-birei ; doubtless,  as  thought 
by  Schwarz  (Palest,  p.  124),  the  same  as  Sansannam, 
in  the  south  border  of  Judah  (Josh,  xv,  31),  one  of  Sol- 
omon’s “chariot-cities"  (2  Chron.  i,  14).  See  IIaze- 
Rim.  It  is  true  that  “neither  it  nor  its  companion, 
Beth-marcabotii,  the  ‘house  of  chariots,’  is  named  in 
the  list  of  the  towns  of  Judah  in  eliap.  xv,  but  they  arc 
included  in  those  of  Simeon  in  1 Chron.  iv,  31,  with  the 


express  statement  that  they  existed  before  and  up  to 
the  time  of  David”  (Smith).  Stanley  suggests,  “In 
Bethnarkaboth, 1 the  house  of  chariots,’  and  Hazar-su - 
sim,  ‘ the  village  of  horses,’  we  recognise  the  depots  and 
stations  for  the  horses  and  eliariots,  sueh  as  those  wliieh 
in  Solomon’s  time  went  to  and  fro  between  Egypt  and 
Palestine”  (Sin.  and  Pal.  p.  160).  “ It  is  doubtful  wheth- 
er there  was  any  such  communication  between  those 
countries  as  early  as  the  time  of  Joshua;  but  may  not 
the  rich  grassy  plains  around  Beersheba  (Robinson,  Bib. 
lies.  i,  203)  have  been  used  at  certain  seasons  by  the 
ancient  tribes  of  Southern  Palestine  for  pasturing  their 
Avar  and  ehariot  horses,  just  as  the  grassy  plains  of  Jau- 
lan  are  used  at  the  present  day  by  the  Druse  chiefs  of 
Lebanon,  and  the  Turkish  cavalry  and  artillery  at  Da- 
mascus?” (Kitto).  “Still  it  is  somewhat  difficult  to 
ascribe  to  so  early  a date  the  names  of  places  situated, 
as  these  were,  in  the  Bedouin  eountry,  where  a ehariot 
must  have  been  unknown,  and  where  even  horses  seem 
carefully  excluded  from  the  possessions  of  the  inhabit- 
ants— ‘ camels,  sheep,  oxen,  and  asses’  (1  Sam.  xxvii,  9)” 
(Smith). 

Haz'azon-ta'mar  (2  Chron.  xx,  2).  See  Haze- 

ZOX-TAWAR. 

Hazel  (T^,  luz,  of  doubtful  etymology  [see  Luz] ; 
Sept.  napvU’t),  Vulgate  umygda linus),  apparently  a nut- 
bearing  tree,  which  occurs  in  Gen.  xxx,  37,  Avhere  it  in- 
dicates one  of  the  kinds  of  rod  from  Avhich  Jacob  peeled 
the  bark,  and  wliieli  he  placed  in  the  Avater-troughs  of 
the  eattle.  Authorities  are  divided  between  the  hazel 
or  walnut  and  the  almond-tree,  as  representing  the  luz ; 
in  favor  of  the  former  we  have  Kimelii,  Jarelii,  Luther, 
and  others ; Avhile  the  Vulgate,  Saadias,  and  Gesenius 
adopt  the  latter  view.  The  rendering  in  the  Sept,  is 
equally  applicable  to  cither.  On  the  one  hand  is  ad- 
duced the  fact  that  in  the  Arabic  we  lia\'e  louz,  whieh 
is  indeed  the  same  word,  and  denotes  the  almond.  Thus 
Abu’l-Fatlli,  as  quoted  by  Celsius  ( Ilierobot . i,254),  says, 
“ Louz  est  arbor  nota,  et  magna,  foliis  mollibus.  Species 
dune,  liortensis  et  silvestris.  Ilortensis  quoque  dine  sunt 
species,  didcis  et  amara ;”  where  reference  is  evidently 
made  to  the  SAveet  and  bitter  almond.  Other  Arab  au- 
thors also  describe  the  almond  under  the  name  of  louz. 
But  this  name  Avas  avcII  known  to  the  HebreAvs  as  indi- 
cating the  almond ; for  R.  Saadias,  in  Ab.  Esra’s  Com- 
ment., as  quoted  by  Celsius  (p.  253),  remarks:  “Lus  est 
amygdalus,  quiaita  earn  appellant  Arabes;  11am  lne  dune 
linguae,  et  Syriaea,  ejusdem  sunt  familiae.”  It  is  also  al- 
leged that  there  is  another  Avord  in  the  HebreAV  lan- 
guage, egoz  (FOX),  which  is  applicable  to  the  hazel  os 


HAZELELPONI 


107 


IIAZEROTH 


walnut.  See  Nut.  The  strongest  argument  on  the  oth- 
er side  arises  from  the  circumstance  of  another  word, 
shakkl  having  reference  to  the  almond;  it  is 

supposed,  however,  that  the  latter  applies  to  the  fruit 
exclusively,  and  the  word  under  discussion  to  the  tree ; 
Eosenmfiller  identifies  the  shaked  with  the  cultivated, 
and  luz  with  the  wild  almond  tree,— Kitto;  Smith.  See 
Fruit. 

The  almond  is  diffused  by  culture  from  China  to  Spain, 
and  is  found  to  bear  fruit  well  on  both  sides  of  the  Med- 
iterranean ; but  there  is  no  region  where  it  thrives  bet- 
ter than  Syria,  or  where  it  is  so  truly  at  home.  Accord- 
ingly, when  Jacob  was  sending  a present  of  those  pro- 
ductions of  Canaan  which  were  likely  to  be  acceptable 
to  an  Egyptian  grandee,  “ the  best  fruits  of  the  land,” 
besides  balm,  and  myrrh,  and  honey,  he  bade  his  sons 
take  “nuts  and  almonds”  (Gen.  xliii,  11) ; and  the  orig- 
inal name  of  that  place  so  endeared  to  his  memory  as 
Bethel,  originally  called  Luz,  was  probably  derived  from 
some  well-known  tree  of  this  species.  To  this  day  “Jor- 
dan almonds”  is  the  recognised  market-name  for  the 
best  samples  of  this  fruit,  in  common  with  Tafilat  dates, 
Eleme  figs,  etc.  The  name,  however,  is  little  more  than 
a tradition.  The  best  “ Jordan  almonds”  come  from  Mal- 
aga.— Fairbairn.  See  Almond. 

Hazelelpo'ni,  or  rather  Zelelponi  (“l2"22b^) 
shade  looking  upon  me.  [or  -protection  of  the  presence,  sc. 
God;  F first],  with  the  article,  “OisbbiSil,  hats-Tselel- 
poni',  strictly,  perhaps,  rather  an  epithet,  the  Zelelponite, 
q.  d.  overshadowed ; Sept.  ’Em]\t\<puji\  Yulg.  .-1  selelphu- 
ni),  the  sister  of  Jezreel  and  others,  of  the  descendants 
of  Hezron,  son  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  iv,  8).  B.C.  cir.  1G12. 

Hazelius,  Ernest  Lewis,  D.D.,was  bom  in  Neu- 
salz,  Prussia,  Sept.  6,  1777.  He  was  descended  from  a 
long  line  of  Lutheran  ministers.  His  theological  stud- 
ies were  pursued  at  Niesky,  a Moravian  institution  un- 
der the  superintendence  of  bishop  Anders.  In  1800  he 
was  appointed  teacher  of  the  classics  in  the  Moravian 
Seminary  at  Nazareth,  Pa.  The  position  he  accepted  in 
opposition  to  the  wishes  of  his  friends,  and  at  once  em- 
barked for  America.  In  this  institution  he  labored  with 
efficiency  for  eight  years,  and  was  advanced  to  be  head- 
teacher and  professor  of  theology.  Differing  from  his 
brethren  in  their  views  of  church  government  and  disci- 
pline, he  concluded  to  change  his  ecclesiastical  relations, 
and  to  unite  with  the  Lutheran  Church,  in  whose  serv- 
ice his  fathers  had  so  long  lived  and  labored.  In  1809 
he  removed  to  Philadelphia,  and  for  a time  had  charge 
of  a private  classical  school.  For  several  years  he  la- 
bored as  a pastor  in  New  Jersey,  and  in  1815  was  elected 
professor  of  theology  in  Ilartwick  Seminary,  and  princi- 
pal of  the  classical  department.  In  1830  he  was  chosen 
professor  of  Biblical  and  Oriental  literature,  and  of  the 
German  language,  in  the  seminary  at  Gettysburg,  Pa. ; 
and  in  1834  he  accepted  the  appointment  of  professor  in 
the  theological  seminary  of  the  Synod  of  South  Caro- 
lina. All  these  positions  he  filled  with  ability  and  great 
satisfaction  to  the  Church.  He  died  Feb.  20,  1853.  As 
a scholar  he  occupied  a high  rank.  The  doctorate  he 
received  simultaneously  from  Union  and  Columbia  Col- 
leges, N.  Y.  His  attainments  in  literature  were  varied 
and  extensive.  He  published  Life  of  Luther  (1813) : — 
Materials  for  Catechisation  (1823) : — -Augsburg  Confes- 
sion, with  Annotations : — History  of  the  Christian  Church 
(1842) : — Hist,  of  the  A meriean  Lutheran  Church  (1842)  : 
— Life  of  J.  II.  Stilling  (1831).  (M.  L.  S.) 

Ha'zer  (“ISH,  Chatser',  from  to  surround  or 
inclose),  a word  which  is  of  not  unfrequent  occurrence 
in  the  Bible  in  the  sense  of  a “court”  or  quadrangle  to 
a palace  or  other  building,  but  which  topographically 
seems  generally  employed  lor  the  “ villages”  of  people  in 
a roving  and  unsettled  life,  the  semi-permanent  collec- 
tions of  dwellings  described  by  travellers  among  the 
modern  Arabs  as  consisting  of  rough  stone  walls  cover- 
ed with  the  tent-cloths,  and  thus  holding  a middle  po- 


sition between  the  tent  of  the  wanderer — so  transitory 
as  to  furnish  an  image  of  the  sudden  termination  of  life 
(Isa.  xxxviii,  1*2) — and  the  settled,  permanent  town.  Sec 
Topographical  Terms. 

As  a proper  name  it  appears  in  the  A.Y. : 1.  In  the 
plural,  Hazerim,  and  IIazeroth,  for  which  see  below. 
2.  In  the  slightly  different  form  of  IIazor.  3.  In  com- 
position with  other  words,  giving  a special  designation 
to  the  particular  ‘‘village”  intended.  When  thus  in 
union  with  another  word  the  name  is  Hazar  (q.  v.).  It 
should  not  be  overlooked  that  the  places  so  named  are 
all  in  the  wilderness  itself,  or  else  quite  on  the  confines 
of  civilized  country. — Smith,  s.  v. 

Haz'erim  [many  Hase'rini]  (Hebrew  Chatserim ', 
crixn,  villages;  Sept.  ’AoijawS,  Yulg.  Ilaserim),  the 
name  of  a place,  or  peril,  rather  a general  designation  of 
the  temporary  villages  in  which  the  nomade  Avites  re- 
sided, especially  between  Gaza  and  “ the  river  of  Egypt” 
or  el-Arish  (Dent,  ii,  23).  Schwarz  suggests  (Palestine, 
p.  93)  that  these  “ Hazerim”  may  be  a general  designa- 
tion of  the  many  towns  by  the  name  of  Hazor  and  II A- 
zar  found  in  this  region ; if  so,  these  probably  all  lay 
near  each  other;  and  it  is  a singular  fact  that  the  sites 
of  at  least  two  of  them,  llazar-gaddah  and  Hazar-susali, 
seem  to  have  been  immediately  adjoining  one  another. 

Haz'eroth  [many  Ilaze'roth ] (Ileb.  Chatseroth', 
rvi"2Sn,  villages ; Sept.  ’AoijpioS,  but  A uXwv  in  Deut.  i, 
1),  the  sixteenth  station  of  the  Israelites,  their  third  af- 
ter leaving  Sinai,  and  either  four  or  five  days’  march 
from  that  mountain  towards  Canaan  (Numb,  xi,  35 ; xii, 
10;  xxxiii,  17, 18;  Deut.  i,  1 ; comp.  Numb,  x,  33).  It 
was  also  the  first  place  after  Sinai  where  the  camp  re- 
mained for  a number  of  days.  Here  Aaron  and  Miriam 
attempted  to  excite  a rebellion  against  Moses ; and  here 
the  guilty  Miriam  was  smitten  with  leprosy  (Numb.  xii). 
Burckhardt  suggested  ( Travels , p.  495)  that  it  is  to  be 
found  in  A in  el-Hudhera,  near  the  usual  route  from  Si- 
nai to  the  eastern  arm  of  the  Bed  Sea;  an  identification 
that  has  generally  been  acquiesced  in  by  subsequent 
travellers.  It  is  described  by  Dr.  Robinson  as  a foun- 
tain of  tolerably  good  water,  the  only  perennial  one  in 
that  region,  with  several  low  palm-trees  around  it;  he 
also  remarks  that  the  identification  of  this  spot  with 
IIazeroth  is  important  as  showing  the  route  of  the  Is- 
raelites from  Sinai  to  the  Arabab,  which,  if  it  passed 
through  this  place,  must  have  continued  down  the  val- 
ley to  the  Red  Sea,  and  could  not  have  diverged  through 
the  high  western  plateau  of  the  wilderness  ( Researches , 
i,  223).  See  Enode.  “ Its  distance  from  Sinai  accords 
with  the  Scripture  narrative,  and  would  seem  to  war- 
rant us  in  identifying  it  with  IIazeroth.  There  is  some 
difficulty,  however. in  the  position.  The  country  around 
the  fountain  is  exceedingly  rugged,  and  the  approaches 
to  it  difficult.  It  does  not  seem  a suitable  place  for  a 
large  camp.  Dr.  Wilson  mentions  an  undulating  plain 
about  fifteen  miles  north  of  Sinai,  and  miming  ‘ a long 
way  to  the  eastward,’  called  el-IIadherah  ; and  here  he 
would  locate  IIazeroth  (Lands  of  the  Bible,  i,  25G).  Stan- 
ley thinks  that  the  fountain  called  el- Ain,  some  distance 
north  of  the  fountain  of  Hudherah,  ought  rather  to  be 
regarded  as  the  site  of  IIazeroth,  because  ’Ain  is  the 
most  important  spring  in  this  region,  ‘and  must  there- 
fore have  attracted  around  it  any  nomadic  settlements, 
such  as  are  implied  in  the  name  Hazeroth,  and  such  as 
that  of  Israel  might  have  been’  (Sinai  and  Pal.  p.  82). 
The  approach  to  ’Ain  is  easy;  the  glens  around  it  pos- 
sess some  good  pastures;  and  the  road  from  it  to  the 
/E  Ian  i tic  Gulf,  along  whose  shore  the  Israelites  appear 
to  have  marched,  is  open  through  the  sublime  ravine  of 
WetJr.  Still,  those  familiar  with  the  East  know  with 
what  tenacity  old  names  cling  to  old  sites;  and  it  seems 
in  the  highest  degree  probable  that  the  old  name  Haz- 
eroth is  retained  in  Hudherah.  But  probably  the  name 
mav  have  been  given  to  a wide  district  (Porter,  Hand- 
book for  S.  and  Pal.  i,  37  sq.)”  (Kitto,  s.  v.).  Schwarz, 
however  (Palest,  p.  212),  regards  the  site  as  that  of  Ain 


108 


HAZOR 


IIAZEZON-TAMAR 

tl-Kvd'irah,  a largo  fountain  of  sweet  running  water  at 
some  distance  beyond  the  ridge  which  bounds  the  west- 
ern edge  of  the’  interior  plateau  of  the  desert  et-Tih 
(Robinson’s  Researches,  i,280) ; a position  far  too  north- 
ward. 

Haz'ezon-ta'mar  (Hebrew  Chatsatson' -Tamar', 
-~r  ysan,  <;Cn.  xiv,  7;  Sept.  ’ AaaaovSapdp),  or 
HAZ'AZGX-TA'MAR  (Ileb.  [precisely  the  converse  of 
the  rendering  in  the  A.V.]  Chatsetson' -Tamar',  jijSSn 
2 Chron.  xx,  2;  Sept.  ’A acwuv  Qapap),  the  name 
under  which,  at  a very  early  period  in  the  history  of 
Palestine,  and  in  a document  believed  by  many  to  be 
the  oldest  of  all  these  early  records,  we  first  hear  of  the 
place  which  afterwards  became  Ex-gedi  (q.  v.).  The 
Amorites  were  dwelling  at  Ilazazon-Tamar  when  the 
four  kings  made  their  incursion,  and  fought  their  suc- 
cessful battle  with  the  five  (Gen.  xiv,  7).  The  name 
occurs  onlv  once  again— in  the  records  of  the  reign  of 
llezekiah  (2  Clircn.  xx,  2)— when  he  is  warned  of  the 
approach  of  the  horde  of  Ammonites,  Moabites,  Mch il- 
ium, and  men  of  Mount  Seir,  whom  he  afterwards  so 
completely  destroyed,  and  who  were  no  doubt  pursuing 
thus  far  exactly  the  same  route  as  the  Assyrians  had 
done  a thousand  years  before  them.  Here  the  expla- 
nation, 41  which  is  En-gcdi,”is  added.  The  existence  of 
the  earlier  appellation,  after  En-gedi  had  been  so  long 
in  use,  is  a remarkable  instance  of  the  tenacity  of  these 
old  Oriental  names,  of  which  more  modern  instances 
are  frequent.  See  Accno;  Beths ai da,  etc.  Schwarz, 
however,  unnecessarily  supposes  (Palest,  p.  21)  the  two 
passages  to  refer  to  different  localities,  the  earlier  of 
which  lie  assigns  (on  Talmudical  evidence)  to  Zoau  (q. 
v.). 

llazazon-tamar  is  interpreted  in  Hebrew  to  mean  the 
“pruning  or  felling  of  the  palm"  (Gesen.  Thes.  p.  512), 
or  perhaps  better,  “ a row  of  palm-treed'  (Fiirst,  Lex.  s. 
v.).  Jerome  ((Inast.in  Gen.)  renders  it  urbs palmarum. 
This  interpretation  of  the  name  is  borne  out  by  the  an- 
cient reputation  of  the  palms  of  En-gedi  (Ecclus.  xxiv, 
14,  and  the  citations  from  Pliny,  given  under  that  name). 
The  Samaritan  Version  has  *’*13  vb2=the  Valley  of 
Cadi,  possibly  a corruption  of  En-gedi.  The  Targnms 
have  En-gedi.  Perhaps  this  was  the  “city  of  palm- 
trees”  (Tr  hat-temarim)  out  of  which  the  Kenites,  the 
tribe  of  Moses’s  father-in-law,  went  up  into  the  wilder- 
ness of  Judah,  after  the  conquest  of  the  country  (Judg. 
i,  l(i).  If  this  were  so,  the  allusion  of  Balaam  to  the 
Kenite  (Numb,  xxiv,  21)  is  at  once  explained.  Stand- 
ing as  lie  was  on  one  of  the  lofty  points  of  the  highlands 
opposite  Jericho,  the  western  shore  of  the  Dead  Sea  as 
far  as  En-gedi  would  be  before  him,  and  the  cliff,  in  the 
clefts  of  which  the  Kenites  had  fixed  their  secure 
‘•nest,"  would  be  a prominent  object  in  the  view.  This 
lias  been  alluded  to  by  Prof.  Stanley  ( S . and  P.  p.  225, 
n.  1).— Smith,  s.  v.  De  Saulcy  ( Narrative , i,  149)  and 
Schwarz  ( Palestine , p.  109)  think  that  a trace  of  the 
ancient,  name  is  preserved  in  the  tract  and  wady  el-llu- 
sastdi  (Robinson's  Researches,  ii,  243,  244),  a little  north 
of  Ain-  J i<ly. 

Ha'ziel  (Ileb.  ChazieV,  vision  of  God;  Sept. 

’A'Ciif  v.  r.  'IfnyX),  a “son”  of  the  Gershonite  Shimei, 
and  chief  of  the  family  of  Laadan  (1  Chron.  xxiii,  9). 
B.C.  111  14. 

Ha'zo  (Ileb.  Chazo’,  ITtl,  perhaps  for  MTH,  vision; 
Sept.  ’AZciv, V nig.  Azait),  one  of  the  sons  of  Nalior  by 
Mileali  (Gen.  xxii,  22).  R.C.  cir.  2040.  The  only  clew 
to  the  locality  settled  by  him  is  to  be  found  in  the  iden- 
tification of  Chesed,  and  the  other  sons  of  Nalior;  and 
lienee  be  must,  in  all  likelihood,  be  placed  in  Pr  of  the 
Chaldees,  or  the  adjacent  countries.  Bunsen  ( Bibel - 
verh,  I,  ii,  49)  suggests  Chazene  by  the  Euphrates  (Ste- 
phan. Byzant.),  in  Mesopotamia,  or  the  Chazene  (Xa- 
Kwt'i)  in  Assyria  (Strabo,  xvi,  p.  730).— Smith. 

Ha'zor  (Ileb.  Chatsor n’lSH,  village  [see  Ga- 


zer-] ; Sept.  ’Aoiop,  but  t)  av\i]  in  Jer.  xlix,  28, 30, 33), 
the  name  of  several  places.  See  also  En-Hazor  ; Baal- 
Hazoii;  H azor-Hadattah  ; Hazerim. 

1.  A city  near  the  waters  of  lake  Merom  (Huleli), 
the  seat  of  Jabin,  a powerful  Canaanitish  king,  as  ap- 
pears from  the  summons  sent  by  him  to  all  the  neighbor- 
ing kings  to  assist  him  against  the  Israelites  (Josh,  xi,  1 
-5).  He  and  his  confederates  were,  however,  defeated 
and  slain  by  Joshua,  and  the  city  burned  to  the  ground 
(Josh,  xi,  10-13 ; Josephus,  Ant.  v,  5, 1) : being  the  only 
one  of  those  northern  cities  which  was  burned  by  Joshua, 
doubtless  because  it  was  too  strong  and  important  to 
leave  standing  in  his  rear.  It  was  the  principal  city  of 
the  whole  of  North  Palestine,  “ the  head  of  all  those 
kingdoms”  (Josh,  x,  10;  see  Jerome,  Onomast.  s.  v.  Asor). 
Like  the  other  strong  places  of  that  part,  it  stood  on  an 
eminence  (^Pl,  Josh,  xi,  13,  A.  V.  “strength”),  but  the 
district  aroimd  must  have  been  on  the  whole  flat,  and 
suitable  for  the  manoeuvres  of  the  “very  many”  chariots 
and  horses  which  formed  part  of  the  forces  of  the  king 
of  llazor  and  his  confederates  (Josh,  xi,  4,  6,  9;  Judg. 
iv,  3).  But  by  the  time  of  Deborah  and  Barak  the 
Canaanites  had  recovered  part  of  the  territory  then 
lost,  had  rebuilt  Hazor,  and  were  ruled  by  a king  with 
, the  ancient  royal  name  of  Jabin,  under  whose  power 
the  Israelites  were,  in  punishment  for  their  sins,  re- 
duced. From  this  yoke  they  were  delivered  by  Debo- 
rah and  Barak,  after  which  Hazor  remained  in  quiet 
possession  of  the  Israelites,  and  belonged  to  the  tribe  of 
Naphtali  (Josh,  xix,  36;  Judg.  iv,  2;  1 Sam.  xii,  9). 
Solomon  did  not  overlook  so  important  a post,  and  the 
fortification  of  Hazor,  Mcgiddo,  and  Gezer,  the  points 
of  defence  for  the  entrance  from  Syria  and  Assyria,  the 
plain  of  Esdraelon,  and  the  great  maritime  lowland  re- 
spectively, was  one  of  the  chief  pretexts  for  his  levy  of 
taxes  (1  Kings  ix,  15).  Later  still  it  is  mentioned  in 
the  list  of  the  towns  and  districts  whose  inhabitants 
were  carried  off  to  Assyria  by  Tiglath-Pileser  (2  Kings 
xv,  29 ; Josephus,  Ant.  ix,  1 1, 1).  We  encounter  it  once 
more  in  1 Macc.  xi,  67,  where  Jonathan,  after  encamp- 
ing for  the  night  at  the  “ water  of  Gennesar,”  advances 
to  the  “plain  of  Asor”  (Josephus,  Ant.  xiii,  5,  7 ; the 
Greek  text  of  the  Maccabees  has  prefixed  an  n from  the 
preceding  word  irtdiov  ; A.  V.  “Nasor”)  to  meet  Deme- 
trius, who  was  in  possession  of  Kadesli  (xi,  63;  Jose- 
phus as  above).  See  Nasor.  Baumer  queries  wheth- 
er it  may  not  have  been  the  ancient  town  of  iVaason, 
which  king  Baldwin  IV  passed  on  his  way  from  Tibe- 
rias to  Sapliet  (Will.  Tyr.  p.  1014) ; and  his  reason  for 
this  conjecture  is  that  the  Vulgate  gives  Naason  for  the 
Asor  (’ Aawp ) of  Tobit  i,  1 (Baumer,  Paliistina, p.  114,  n.). 
See  Asor. 

The  name  Hazor  still  lingers  in  several  places  around 
the  upper  valley  of  the  Jordan  (Bobinson,  B.  R.  iii,  63, 
81,  401).  There  is  one  Ilazury  on  a commanding  site 
above  Caesarea  Philippi,  and  close  to  the  great  castle  of 
Subcikeli.  Here  Keith  ( Land,  of  Israel,  p.  374)  and 
Stanley  (Sin.  and  Pal.  p.  389)  would  place  the  ancient 
capital  of  Canaan.  But  the  territory  of  Naphtali  hard- 
ly extended  so  far  eastward.  Another  Ilasur  is  in  the 
plain,  a few  miles  west  of  the  site  of  Dan ; but  neither 
does  this  site  quite  accord  with  the  Scripture  notices 
(Porter’s  Damascus,  i,  304 ; Van  de  Velde,  Memoir,  p. 
318).  Schwarz  (Palest,  p.  91)  thinks  a village  which 
he  calls  A zur,  between  Banias  and  Meshdel  (el-Mejel), 
may  be  the  ancient  Hazor;  he  probably  refers  to  the 
Ain  el-lluzury  marked  on  Zimmerman’s  Map  a little 
north-east  of  Banias,  which,  however,  is  too  far  east. 
There  is  a place  marked  as  A zur  on  Zimmerman’s  Map, 
a little  north-east  of  Kedes  (Ivadesh),  which  unques- 
tionably lay  in  Naphtali ; but  M.  De  Saulcy  (Narrat. 
ii,  406)  denies  that  this  can  have  been  the  llazor  of  Ja- 
bin (which  he  distinguishes  from  the  Hazor  of  Solo- 
mon), and  in  a long  argument  (p.  400-405)  he  contends 
that  it  was  situated  on  the  site  of  some  extensive  ruins, 
which  he  reports  at  a place  called  indefinitely  el-Khan, 
on  the  hills  skirting  the  north-easterly  shore  of  the  lake 


HAZOR 


109 


HEAD 


el-Huleh,  in  the  direction  of  Banias.  Van  de  Velde 
(Memoir,  p.  318)  likewise  thinks  the  Hazor  of  Joshua 
different  from  that  of  Judges  (although  both  were  ruled 
by  a Jabin,  evidently  a hereditary  title),  and  inclines 
to  regard  En-Hazor  (Josh,  xix,  37)  as  identical  with 
the  latter,  and  with  a ruined  Ilazur  in  the  middle  of 
Galilee  (about  two  hours  from  Bint  Jebeil) ; while  he 
seems  to  acquiesce  in  the  identification  of  the  eastern 
Hazor  with  a Ilazur  (Porter,  Damascus,  i,  304)  or  Kasr 
Autar  (Seetzen),  or,  as  he  himself  calls  it,  Tell  Ilaze, 
covered  with  remains,  and  jutting  out  from  Merj  Avun 
towards  the  Huleli  plain.  The  Hazor  of  Josh,  xix,  30, 
he  believes  to  be  Tell  Ilazur , south-east  of  Itaniah.  All 
this,  however,  is  vague  and  confused.  Air.  Thomson, 
who  visited  this  region  in  1843,  believed  Hazor  may  be 
identified  with  the  present  castle  of  Ilunin,  north  of  the 
Iluleh  ( Biblioth . Sacra,  1846,  p.  202).  The  editor  (Dr. 
Robinson),  however,  thinks  the  arguments  adduced  more 
plausible  than  sound  (ib.  p.212),  and  advocates  the  opin- 
ion of  Rev.  E.  Smith,  that  Tell  Khureibeh,  at  the  south 
end  of  the  plain  of  Kedes,  is  better  entitled  to  be  re- 
garded as  the  site  of  Hazor  ( Bibliotheca  Sacra,  1847,  p. 
403).  Accordingly,  in  the  new  ed.  of  his  Researches, 
after  noticing  and  rejecting  several  other  sites  proposed 
(iii,  03,  81,  402),  he  at  length  fixes  upon  this  as  best 
agreeing  with  the  ancient  notices  of  this  city  (ib.  p. 
365).  There  are,  as  the  name  Khureibeh,  “ruins,”  im- 
plies, some  ancient  ruins  on  the  tell,  but  they  are  those 
of  a village.  There  are  still  other  ruins  of  an  ancient 
town  which  occupy  a commanding  site  on  the  south 
bank  of  wady  Hendaj,  overlooking  the  valley  and  lake 
of  Merom,  and  about  six  miles  south  of  Kedesh,  which 
is  a not  improbable  site  for  the  ancient  Hazor  (Robin- 
son, Bill.  Res.  iii,  363,  365) ; and  the  plain  beneath  it, 
stretching  to  the  shore  of  the  lake,  might  take  the  name 
of  the  city  Asur,  as  Josephus  seems  to  indicate  (l.  c.). 
Ritter  (Erdk.  xv,  260)  accepts  the  Hazury  proposed  by 
Burckhardt  (Trav.  p.  4 1) ; apparently  the  inconsidera- 
ble ruin  on  the  rocky  declivity  above  Banias  (Robinson, 
Res.  new  ed.  iii,  402).  Captain  Wilson  prefers  the  iso- 
lated Tell  Ilarah,  covered  with  ruins,  about  two  miles 
south-east  of  Kedesh  (Jour.  Sac.  Lit.  1866, p.  245).  But 
none  of  these  last  cited  places  retain  the  ancient  name. 
Finally,  Dr.  Thomson  is  confident  (Land  and  Book,  i, 
439)  that  the  true  spot  is  Ilazere  (the  above  Ilazur  of 
Van  de  Velde,  east  of  a more  northern  Ramah),  in  the 
centre  of  the  mountainous  region  overhanging  lake 
Huleh  on  the  north-west,  containing  numerous  ancient 
remains,  and  locally  connected  by  tradition  with  the  Is- 
raelitish  victory;  although  Dr.  Robinson  (incorrectly) 
objects  to  this  site  (Bib.  Res.  new  ed.  iii,  63)  that  it  is 
too  far  from  the  lake,  and  within  the  territory  of  Asher. 

2.  A city  in  the  south  of  Judah  (but  probably  not 
one  of  those  assigned  to  Simeon,  since  it  is  not  named  in 
the  list,  Josh,  xix,  1-9),  mentioned  between  Kedesh  (Ka- 
desh-Barnea)  and  Ithnan  (Josh,  xv,  23,  where  the  Vat. 
MS.  of  the  Sept,  unites  with  the  following  name,  'Aeroo- 
oxivav,  Alex.  MS.  omits,  Vidg.  .4 so?’).  We  may  reason- 
ably conjecture  that  this  was  the  central  town  of  that 
name,  the  other  Hazors  of  the  same  connection  (Hazor- 
Hadattali,  and  Kerioth-llezron  or  Hazor- Amam)  being 
probably  so  called  for  distinction’  sake ; and  in  that  case 
we  may  perhaps  locate  it  at  a ruiued  site  marked  on 
Van  de  Velde’s  Map  as  Tayibeli  (the  et-Taiyib  of  Rob- 
inson, Res.  iii,  Appendix,  p.  114),  on  a tell  around  the 
south-west  base  of  which  runs  the  wady  ed-Dlieib, 
emptying  into  the  Dead  Sea.  See  Nos.  3 and  4. 

3.  Hazor-Hadattaii  (for  so  the  Heb.  S"t!Trtn  “nsn, 
i.  e.  Xeto  Ilazor,  shoidd  be  understood ; since  there  is  no 
copula  between  the  words,  and  the  sense  in  verse  32  re- 
quires this  condensation ; Sept,  omits,  Vulg.  .4 sor  nova), 
a city  in  the  south  of  Judah  (but  not  the  extreme  Sim- 
eonite  portion),  mentioned  between  Bealoth  and  Kcri- 
oth  (Josh,  xv,  25) ; probably,  as  suggested  in  Keil  and 
Delitzsch’s  Commentary,  ad  loe.  (Edinb.  ed.  p.  160),  the 
ruined  site  el-IIudhairah  of  Robinson’s  Researches  (iii, 
Append,  p.  114),  south  of  Hebron,  in  the  immediate  vi-  I 


cinity  of  el-Beyudli  (the  Beiyudli  of  Van  de  Velde’s 
Map,  about  half  way  between  Keriotli  and  Arad).  See 
Nos.  2.  and  4. 

4.  IIazor-Amam  (to  be  so  joined  for  the  same  rea- 
sons as  in  No.  2),  probably  identified  with  Kcrioth-ller- 
zon  (in  the  Heb.  the  four  names  stand  1'"^”  rv^ip 

“nan  X“n,  villages  ofChetsrou  which  is  Chatsor- 
Amam  ; Sept,  at  TruXtaj  'Arrepwv  [v.  r.  ’Aatpw/i  j,  a'vri] 
tart  ’Arrwp,  icai  ’A pap  [v.  r.  ’Aafpw/ut^u];  Vulg.  Cunoth, 
Ilesron,  luvc  est  .Iso?’,  A mam),  a town  in  the  south  of 
Judah  (but  apparently  not  in  the  Simeonite  territory), 
mentioned  between  Bealoth  and  Shema  (Josh,  xv,  24- 
26) ; no  doubt  (if  thus  combined)  the  modern  el-Khu- 
reyetein,  as  suggested  by  Robinson  (Researches,  iii,  Ap- 
pend. p.  114).  See  Keuiotii. 

5.  (Vat.  M S.  of  Sept,  omits;  Vulg.  Asor.)  A city 
inhabited  by  the  Benjamites  after  the  Captivity,  men- 
tioned between  Ananiali  and  Ramah  (Neh.  xi,  33) ; pos- 
sibly the  modem  Gazar,  a short  distance  east  of  Jaffa 
(for  others  of  the  associated  names,  although  likewise 
within  the  ancient  territory  of  Dan,  are  also  assigned  to 
Benjamin),  since  Eusebius  and  Jerome  (Onomast.  s.  v. 
Asor)  mention  a Ilazor  in  the  vicinity  of  Ascalon,  al- 
though they  assign  it  to  Judah,  and  confound  it  with 
those  in  the  south  of  that  tribe  (Robinson’s  Researches, 
ii,  370,  note).  From  the  places  mentioned  with  it,  as 
Anathoth,  Nob,  Ramah,  etc.,  it  would  seem  to  have  lain 
north  of  Jerusalem,  and  at  no  great  distance  therefrom. 
Schwarz  thinks  it  is  called  Chasor  (“Sn)  in  the  Tal- 
mudical  writers  (Palest,  p.  162).  Robinson  suggests  the 
identity  of  Hazor  and  the  modern  TellAsur,  a ruin  on  a 
little  hill  about  six  miles  north  of  Bethel  (Bib.  Res.  n, 
264,  note).  This,  however,  appears  to  be  too  far  from 
Ramah.  Tobler  mentions  a ruin  called  Khurbet  .4  rsnr, 
near  Ramah,  a little  to  the  west,  the  situation  of  which 
would  answer  better  to  Hazor  (Topogr.  ii,  400;  Van  de 
Velde,  Memoir,  p.  319).  The  place  in  question  is  prob- 
ably the  same  with  the  Baal-iiazor  (q.v.)  of  2 Sam. 
xiii,  23. 

6.  A region  of  Arabia,  spoken  of  as  an  important 
place,  in  the  vicinity  of  Kedar,  in  the  prophetic  denun- 
ciations of  desolation  upon  both  by  Nebuchadnezzar 
(Jer.  xlix,  28-33).  It  can  hardly  be  Petra,  as  supposed 
by  Vitringa  (on  Isa.,  i, p.  624),  nor  the  Asor  placed  by 
Eusebius  8 miles  west  of  Philadelphia  (Hitzig,  Jesaitis, 
p.  196),  but  probably  is  a designation  of  the  confines  of 
Arabia  with  south-eastern  Palestine,  inhabited  by  no- 
made  tribes  dwelling  in  mere  encampments.  See  11a- 

ZAR. 

Hazzurim.  See  IIelkatii-hazzurim. 

Head  (properly  — >t",  rosh,  KtQaAi)),  the  topmost 
part  of  the  human  body. 

I.  Anatomically  considered,  the  general  character  of 
the  human  head  is  such  as  to  establish  the  identity  of 
the  human  race,  and  to  distinguish  man  from  every  oth- 
er animal.  At  the  same  time,  different  families  of  man- 
kind are  marked  by  peculiarities  of  construction  in  the 
head,  which,  though  in  individual  cases,  and  when  ex- 
tremes are  compared  together,  they  rim  one  into  the 
other,  to  the  entire  loss  of  distinctive  lines,  yet  are  in  the 
general  broadly  contrasted  one  with  the  other.  These 
peculiarities  in  the  structure  of  the  skull  give  rise  to  and 
are  connected  with  other  peculiarities  of  feature  and 
general  contour  of  face.  In  the  union  of  cranial  pecul- 
iarities with  those  of  the  face,  certain  clear  marks  are 
presented,  by  which  physiologists  have  been  able  to 
range  the  individuals  of  our  race  into  a few  great  class- 
es, and  in  so  doing  to  afford  an  unintentional  corrobora- 
tion of  the  information  which  the  Scriptures  afford  re- 
garding the  origin  and  dispersion  of  mankind.  Cam- 
per, one  of  the  most  learned  and  clear-minded,  physi- 
cians of  the  18tli  century,  has  the  credit  of  being  the 
first  who  drew  attention  to  the  classification  of  the  hu- 
man features,  .and  endeavored,  by  means  of  what  he 
termed  the  facial  angle,  to  furnish  a method  for  distin- 
| guishing  different  nations  and  races  of  men,  which,  be- 


110 


HEAD 


HEAD 

ing  himself  an  eminent  limner,  he  designed  for  applica- 
tion chiefly  in  the  art  of  drawing,  and  which,  though 
far  from  producing  strictly  definite  and  scientific  results, 
vet  affords  views  that,  arc  not  without  interest,  and  ap- 
proximations that  at  least  prepared  the  way  for  some- 
thing better  (see  a collection  of  Camper's  pieces  entitled 
(Kurres  qui  out  pour  Objet  l'1/istoire  A aturelle , hi  Physi- 
ologic, et  V.  1 natomie  comparee,  Paris,  1803).  It  is,  how- 
ever, to  the  celebrated  J.  F.  Blumenbach,  whose  merits 
in  the  entire  sphere  of  natural  history  are  so  transcend- 
ent. that  we  are  mainly  indebted  for  the  accurate  and 
satisfactory  classifications  in  regard  to  cranial  structure 
which  now  prevail.  Camper  had  observed  that  the 
breadth  of  the  head  differs  in  different  nations;  that 
the  heads  of  Asiatics  (the  Kalmucs)  have  the  greatest 
breadth ; that  those  of  Europeans  have  a middle  degree 
of  breadth ; and  that  the  skulls  of  the  African  negroes 
are  the  narrowest  of  all.  This  circumstance  was  by  Blu- 
menbach made  the  foundation  of  his  arrangement  and 
description  of  skulls.  By  comparing  different  forms  of 
the  human  cranium  together,  that  eminent  physiologist 
was  led  to  recognise  three  great  types,  to  which  all  oth- 
ers could  be  referred— the  Caucasian,  Mongolian,  and 
Ethiopic.  These  three  differ  more  widely  front  each 
other  than  any  other  that  can  be  found;  but  to  these 
three,  Blumenbach,  in  his  classification  of  skulls,  and  of 
the  races  of  men  to  which  they  belong,  added  two  oth- 
ers, in  many  respects  intermediate  between  the  three 
forms  already  mentioned.  In  this  way  five  classes  are 
established,  corresponding  with  five  great  families.  1. 


Forms  ot  Skults  of  different  races:  1,  Ethiopian  : 2,  Mon- 
golian ; 3,  Caucasian;  4, Malay;  5,  American  Savage. 

The  Caucasian  family,  comprising  the  nations  of  Europe, 
some  of  the  Western  Asiatics,  etc.,  have  the  head  of  the 
most  symmetrical  shape,  almost  round,  the  forehead  of 
moderate  extent,  the  cheek-bones  rather  narrow,  with- 
out any  projection,  but  a direction  downwards  from  the 
molar  process  of  the  frontal  bone;  the  alveolar  edge 
Avell  rounded;  the  front  teeth  of  each  jaw  placed  per- 
pendicularly ; the  face  of  oval  shape,  straight,  features 
moderately  prominent;  forehead  arched;  nose  narrow, 
slightly  arched;  mouth  small;  chin  full  and  round.  2. 
The  second  is  the  Mongolian  variety.  3.  Ethiopian.  4. 
Malay  and  South  Sea  Islanders.  5.  American.  The  de- 
scription of  their  peculiarities  may  be  found  in  Prich- 
ard’s Researches  into  the  Physical  History  of  Man,  2d  ed. 
i,  1G7  sq.  The  reader  may  also  consult  Lawrence's  /,«- 
tuns  on  the  Natural  History  of  Man ; J.  Muller’s  Hand- 


buck  der  Physioloyie.  But  the  most  recent,  if  not  the 
best  work  on  the  subject  before  us  is  Prichard’s  Natural 
History  of  Man  (1843),  a work  which  comprises  and  re- 
views, in  the  spirit  of  a sound  philosophy,  all  that  has 
hitherto  been  written  and  discovered  on  the  origin,  phys- 
ical structure,  and  propagation  over  the  earth  of  the  race 
of  man.  In  this  invaluable  work  full  details  may  be 
found  of  the  methods  of  studying  the  human  head  of 
which  we  have  spoken,  and  of  some  others,  not  less  in- 
teresting in  themselves,  nor  less  valuable  in  their  results 
(see  particularly  p.  110  sq.). — Kitto,  s.  v. 

II.  Scriptural  References. — This  part  of  the  human 
body  has  generally  been  considered  as  the  abode  of  in- 
telligence, while  the  heart,  or  the  parts  placed  near  it, 
have  been  accounted  the  place  where  the  affections  lie 
(Gen.  iii,  15;  Psa.  iii,  3;  Eccles.  ii,  14).  The  head  and 
the  heart  are  sometimes  taken  for  the  entire  person  (Isa. 

i,  5).  Even  the  head  alone,  as  being  the  chief  member, 
frequently  stands  for  the  man  (Prov.  x,  6).  The  head 
also  denotes  sovereignty  (1  Cor.  xi,  3).  Covering  the 
head,  and  cutting  off  the  hair,  Avere  signs  of  mourning 
and  tokens  of  distress,  Avhieh  were  enhanced  by  throAv- 
ing  ashes  on  the  head,  together  with  sackcloth  (Amos 
viii,  10 ; Job  i,  20 ; Lev.  xxi,  5 ; Deut.  xiv,  1 ; 2 Sam.  xiii, 
10;  Esth.h’,  1);  Avliile  anointing  the  head  Avas  practised 
on  festive  occasions,  and  considered  an  emblem  of  fe- 
licity (Ecelcs.  ix,  8;  Psa.  xxiii,  5;  Luke  A'ii,  46).  See 
Axoixt.  It  AA*as  not  unusual  to  SAvear  by  the  head 
(Matt.  A",  36). — Kitto,  s.  x.  The  phrase  to  lift  up  the  head 
of  any  one,  is  to  exalt  him  (Psa.  iii,  3;  ex,  7) ; and  to 
return  or  give  back  upon  one's  head,  is  to  be  requited,  rec- 
ompensed (Psa.  A’ii,  16;  Joel  iii,  4;  Ezek.  ix,  10;  xi,  21; 
XA’i,  43;  xvii,  19;  xxii,  31).  So,  your  blood  be  on  your 
own  heads  (Acts  XA'iii,  6)  ; the  guilt  of  vonr  destruction 
rests  upon  yourseh'es  (2  Sam.  i,  16;  1 Kings  ii,  33,  37). 
The  term  head  is  used  to  signify  the  chief  one  to  Avhom 
others  are  subordinate ; the  prince  of  a people  or  state 
(Judg.  x,  18;  xi,  8;  1 Sam.  xv,  17 ; Psa.  XA'iii,  43;  Isa. 
ATii,  8, 9) ; of  a family,  the  head,  chief,  patriarch  (Exod. 
A’i,  14;  Numb.  A'ii,  2 ; 1 Chron.  A',  24)  ; of  a husband  in 
relation  to  a Avifc  (Gen.  iii,  16 ; 1 Cor.  xi,  3 ; Eph.  x,  23). 
So  of  Christ  the  head  in  relation  to  his  Church,  Avhieh  is 
his  bodA',  and  its  members  his  members  (1  Cor.  xii,  27 ; 
xi,  3:  Eph.  i,  22;  iv,  15;  a*,  28;  Col.  i,  18;  ii,  10, 19) ; of 
God  in  relation  to  Christ  (1  Cor.  xi,  3).  I lead  is  also 
used  for  Avhat  is  highest,  vpqiermost ; the  top , summit  of  a 
moimtain  (Gen.  A'iii, 5 ; Exod.  xA'ii,9, 10;  xix,  20).  The 
mountain  of  the  Lord’s  house  shall  be  established  at  the 
head  of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be  higher  than  the 
hills,  i.  e.  it  shall  be  & prince  among  the  mountains  (Isa. 

ii,  2).  Four  heads  of  rh'ers,  i.  e.  four  rh'ers  into  Avliich 
the  AA'aters  divide  themselves  (Gen.  ii,  10).  Head  stone 
of  the  corner  (Psa.  cxAnii,  22),  either  the  highest,  form- 
ing the  top  or  coping  of  the  corner;  or  loAvest,  AA'liich 
forms  the  foundation  of  the  building. — BastoAv.  See 
COUXER. 

III.  I/air  of  the  Head  (““£)  A\ras  by  the  Hebrews 
Avorn  thick  and  full  as  an  ornament  of  the  person  (comp. 
Ezek.  viii,  3 ; Jer.  A'ii,  29) ; a bald  head,  besides  exposing 
one  to  the  suspicion  of  leprosy  (LeA\  xiii, 43  sq.),Avas  al- 
Avays  a cause  of  mortification  (2  Kings  ii,  23 ; Isa.  iii,  17, 
24 ; comp.  Sueton.  Cevs.  45 ; Domit.  18 ; Homer,  Iliad,  ii, 
219;  Hariri,  10,p.  99,  cd.  Sacy) ; among  the  priestly  or- 
der it  therefore  amounted  to  a positive  disqualification 
(Lca-.  xxi,  20;  Mislma,  Bechoroth,  A'ii,  2);  among  the 
Egyptians,  on  the  contrary,  the  hair  AA’as  regularly 
j shorn  (Gen.  xli,  14),  and  only  allowed  to  go  uncut  in 
1 seasons  of  mourning  (Herod,  ii,  36).  Hair  so  long  as  to 
1 dt  sccnd  to  the  shoulders,  liOAvever,  seems  only  in  early 
I times  to  liaA'c  been  the  habit,  in  the  male  sex.  Avith 
youth  (2  Sam.  xh',  “26;  Joseph.  Ant.  A'iii,  7, 3 ; Horace, 
Od.  ii,  5, 21 ; iii,  20, 14).  Men  cropped  it  from  time  to 
time  Avith  shears  prn,  rnvs;  comp.  Ezek.  xliv,  20, 
and  the  Ko/nj  /.a tend  of  the  Babylonians,  Strabo  xvi,  716). 
See,  hoAveA'er,  Nazaktte.  Among  the  late  Jews  long 
i hair  in  men  Avas  esteemed  a weakness  (1  Cor.  xi,  14 ; 


HEAD 


111 


HEAD-DRESS 


comp.  Plutarch,  Quast.  Rom . xiv ; Clem.  Alex.  Paid,  iii, 
106 ; Epiphan.  liar,  lxviii,  6 ; Jerome  ad  Ezech.  xliv) ; 
but  it  was  otherwise  in  Sparta  (Aristot.  Rhet.  i,  9 ; He- 
rod. i,  82 ; Xenopli.  Lac.  xi,  3 ; comp.  Aristoph.  A n.  1287 
sq.) ; and  to  the  priests  any  curtailment  of  it  was  for- 
bidden (Otho,  Lex.  Rabb.  p.  118;  for  the  long  hair  on 
the  Pcrsepolitan  remains,  see  Niebuhr,  Trap.  ii.  128 ; and 
for  that  of  the  Asiatic  priests  in  general,  see  Movers, 
Phonic,  i,  G82 : on  the  Assyrian  monuments  it  is  always, 
in  the  case  of  natives  at  least,  represented  as  long  and 
elaborately  curled;  see  Lavard, passim).  Only  in  cases 
of  religious  vows  did  males  sutler  it  to  grow  uncut  (Acts 
xviii,  18;  see  Kuinbl,  ad  loe.).  Females,  on  the  contra- 
ry, set  great  value  upon  the  hair  (1  Cor.  1.  c. ; compare 
Cant,  iv,  1 : Luke  vii,  38;  John  xi,  2 [Itev.  ix,  8]  ; Phi- 
lost  r.  Ep.  26 ; Plutarch,  De  vit.  are  id.  iii ; Ilarmcr,  iii, 
319;  Pvoscnmuller,  Morgenl.  vi,  108;  Kype,  Observe,  ii, 
£20).  There  were  various  modes  of  putting  up  the  hair 
(Ezek.  xliv,  20 ; comp.  Herod,  iv,  175, 191) ; and  it  was  a 
statute  that  men  should  not  cut  oft'  the  earlocks  (rXS 
Iprn,  Lev.  xix,  27;  A.  Y.  “round  the  corners  of  the 
head”).  Women,  especially,  were  wont  to  curl  the  hair 
(Isa.  iii,  21 ; see  Gesen.  ad  loc. ; comp.  >Serv.  ad  sEn,  xii, 
98),  and  to  braid  it  (2  Kings  ix,30;  Judith  x,  3 ; 1 Pet. 
iii,  3;  1 Tim.  ii,9;  comp.  Joseph.  1 For,  iv,  9, 10;  Homer, 
II.  i,330;  xiv,  175;  Harmer,  ii,  381 : to  go  with  dishev- 
elled hair  \_passis  crinibus~\  was  a mark  of  grief,  3 Mace.i, 
9;  comp.  Luke  vii,  38 ; Light  foot,  flpjp.  p.  1081 ; but  rus- 
tic maidens  often  let  the  hair  fall  in  loose  tresses 
Cant,  vii,  6 ; comp.  Anacr.  xxix,  7 ] , merely  bound  with  a 
ribbon),  or  even  to  interweave  it  with  gems  or  other 
finery  (Iliad,  x vii, 52),  and  in  later  times  to  ornament  it 
most  elaborately  (see  Light  foot,  Opp.  p.  198 ; Hartmann, 
Hebr.  ii,  208  sq.).  See  Head-dress.  Even  men  some- 
times appeared  with  curls  (Joseph. . 1 nt.  xiv,  9,  4 ; comp. 
IFit #*,  i v,  9, 10 ; Philo,  Opp.  ii,  479 ; Plutarch,  Lycurg.  22), 
which,  however,  was  generally  disapproved  (Philo,  Opp. 
ii, 306.479;  Cicero, Sext.  8 ; Artemid.  ii,6;  Martial, ii, 36; 
Phocyl.  Sentent.  194  sq.;  Clement  Alexand.  Pad.  iii,  p. 
101).  Combs  are  nowhere  mentioned  in  the  O.  T.  (other 
nations  knew  them,  Ovid,  Fast,  i,  405 ; Petron.  Sat.  126 ; 
Apul.  .1  sin.  ii,  p.  213;  comp.  Iliad , xiv,  176),  although 
they,  as  well  as  hair-pins,  are  referred  to  in  the  Talmud 
(Hartmann,  p.  224  sq.).  Hair-powder  was  unknown  to 
the  ancients.  On  the  other  hand,  they  used  to  anoint 
the  hair  with  costly  oils  (Psa.  xxiii,  5 ; cxxxiii,2:  Matt, 
vi,  17  ; Luke  vii,  46 ; Joseph.  A nt.  xix,  4, 1 ; as  also  non- 
Jewish  nations,  riutarch,  Pracepta  conjug.  29;  Horace, 
Od.  ii,  11, 16;  iii,  29,  2;  Ovid,  Ars  Am.  i,  505;  Tibid.  i, 
751 ; Suetonius,  Cas.  67 ; Apul.  Metam.  ii,  30,  Bip.),  and 
gave  it  a brilliant  lustre  by  a mixture  of  gold-dust  in 
these  unguents  (Joseph.  A nt.  viii,  7,  3 ; comp.  Lamprid. 
Commod.  17),  as  the  hair  of  Orientals  is  generally  black 
(Cant,  iv,  1 ; v,  11 : David’s  rufous  hair  is  named  as  pe- 
culiar, 1 Sam.  xvi,  12).  A common  method  of  dressing 
the  hair  among  many  ancient  nations  (Pliny,  xv,  24 ; 
xxiii,  32, 46;  xxvi,93;  xxviii,51;  Atlien.  xii,  542;  Val. 
Max.  ii,  1,5;  Diod.  Sic.  v,  28 ; but  not  among  the  Greeks, 
Plutarch,  A popht.  reg.  p.  19,  Tauchn.),  and  one  highly 
esteemed  by  modern  Orientals,  namely,  to  stain  it  red- 
dish-yellow  by  means  of  henna  [see  Camimiire],  al- 
though perhaps  not  unknown  to  the  Hebrewesses  (see 
Cant,  vii,  5),  as  an  imitation  of  the  generally  prized 
golden-lined  locks  (flaci  crimes)  of  antiquity  (Iliad,  i, 
197;  ii, 642 ; Yirg.sEn. iv, 549;  Ovid, Fast. ii. 763 ; Stat. 
Achil.  i,  162 ; Petron.  Sat.  105 ; Apul.  Metam.  ii,  25,  Bip. ; 
see  Brouckhus.  ad  Tibull.  i,  6,  8),  was  a practice  that 
does  not  appear  to  have  anciently  prevailed  in  the  East; 
and  modern  Arabs  are  only  accustomed  to  dye  the  hair 
when  gray  (Niebuhr,  Trap.  i,303).  False  hair  has  been 
incorrectly  inferred  from  the  Mishna  (Shabb.  vi,  5),  al- 
though used  among  the  Medians  (comp.  Xenopli.  Cyr.  i, 
3,  2,  nopal  TrpooStroC),  and  occasionally  by  old  men 
(Ovid,  .lrs.4»i.iii.l6),or  for  some  special  purpose  (Polyb. 
iii,  78;  Petron.  Sat.  110;  Juven.  Sat.  vi,  120:  Josephus 
condemns  its  use,  7 repiStri)  Kopy,  Life,  11) ; but  wigs, 


although  common  in  ancient  Egypt  (see  Wilkinson,  A nc. 
Eg.  ii,  325, 326,  329),  are  unknown  in  the  modern  East 
(see  Nikolai,  Ueb.  d.falschen  Ilaare  n.  Periicken  in  alt. 

u.  n.Zeit.  Berl.  1801 ; Ileindorf,  on  Ilorat.  Satir.  p.  183; 
Beroald,  on  Apul.  Met.  p.  241 ; Fabric.  Bibliogr.  A ntiq.  p. 
847).  See  generally  Scliwebel,  De  reft,  in  capillis  or~ 
narulis  studio  (Ouold.  1768).  On  the  treatment  of  the 
hair  in  mourning,  see  Grief.  See  Junius,  De  coma,  c. 
animad.Gruteri  (Amst.1708) ; Sahnasius,  I)e  casarie  ri- 
ror.  et  coma  mulier.  (L.  B.  1641) ; Henning,  De  capillis 
vett.  (Magdeb.  1678).— Winer,  i,449.  Compare  Hair. 

Head-band  (only  in  pi.  ~"|T'£p,  kishshurim',  from 
*rjp,  to  gird),  rather  a girdle  or  belt,  probably  for  the 
waist,  as  a female  ornament  (Isa.  iii,  20;  “attire,”  Jer. 

ii,  32).  See  IIead-duess. 

Headdi.  See  IIedda. 

Head-dress.  The  Hebrews  do  not  appear  to  have 
regarded  a covering  for  the  head  as  an  essential  article 
of  every-day  dress.  See  II  rad-rand.  The  earliest  no- 
tice we  have  of  such  a thing  is  in  connection  with  the 
sacerdotal  vestments,  and  in  this  case  it  is  described  as 
an  ornamental  appendage  “for  glory  and  for  beauty” 
(Exod.  xxviii,  40).  See  51  itre.  The  absence  of  any 
allusion  to  a head-dress  in  passages  where  we  shoidil 
expect  to  meet  with  it,  as  in  the  trial  of  jealousy  (Numb. 

v,  18),  and  the  regidations  regarding  the  leper  (Lev. 
xiii,  45),  in  both  of  which  the  “ uncovering  of  the  head” 
refers  undoubtedly  to  the  hair,  leads  to  the  inference 
that  it  was  not  ordinarily  worn  in  the  Mosaic  age ; and 
this  is  confirmed  by  the  practice,  frequently  alluded  to, 
of  covering  the  head  with  the  mantle.  Even  in  after 
times  it  seems  to  have  been  reserved  especially  for  pur- 
poses of  ornament:  thus  the  tsaniph'  (Cp?^)  is  noticed 
as  being  worn  by  the  nobles  (Job  xxix,  14),  ladies  (Isa. 

iii,  23),  and  kings  (Isa.  lxii,  3),  while  the  peer'  (*'N2) 
was  an  article  of  holiday  dress  (Isa.  lxi,  3.  Auth.  Vers, 
“beauty;”  Ezek.  xxiv,  17,  23),  and  was  worn  at  wed- 
dings (Isa.  lxi,  10) : the  use  of  the  pirpa  was  restricted 
to  similar  occasions  (Tiulith  xvi,  8;  Bar.  v,  2).  The 
former  of  these  terms  undoubtedly  describes  a kind  of 
turban;  its  primary  sense  (7!!i,  “to  roll  around”)  ex- 
presses the  folds  of  linen  wound  round  the  head,  and  its 
form  probably  resembled  that  of  tlie  liigh-priest  s mits- 
ne'pheth  (a  word  derived  from  the  same  root,  and  iden- 
tical in  meaning,  for  in  Zecli.  iii,  5,  tsaniph— mitsne- 
pheth),  as  described  by  Josephus  (Ant.  iii,  7,  3).  The 
renderings  of  the  term  in  the  A.  Y.,  “ hood”  (Isa.  iii,  23), 
“diadem”  (Job  xxix,  14;  Isa.  lxii,  3),  “mitre”  (Zech. 
iii,  5),  do  not  convey  the  right  idea  of  its  meaning.  The 
other  term,  peer,  primarily  means  an  ornament,  and  is 
so  rendered  in  the  A.  Y.  (Isa.  lxi,  10 ; see  also  verse  3, 
“beauty”),  and  is  specifically  applied  to  the  head-dress 
from  its  ornamental  character.  See  Diadem.  It  is 
uncertain  what  the  term  properly  describes:  the  mod- 
ern turban  consists  of  two  parts,  the  kdiik,  a stiff,  round 
cap  occasionally  rising  to  a considerable  height,  and  the 
shush,  a long  piece  of  muslin  wound  about  it  (Russell, 
Aleppo,  i,  104) : Josephus's  account  of  the  high-priest’s 
head-dress  implies  a similar  construction,  for  he  says 
that  it  was  made  of  thick  bands  of  linen  doubled  round 
many  times,  and  sewn  together,  the  whole  covered  by 
a piece  of  fine  linen  to  conceal  tlie  seams.  Kaalsehiitz 
(Arcliaol.  i,  27,  note)  suggests  that  the  tsaniph  and  the 
peer  represent  tlie  shush  and  the  kdiik,  the  latter  rising 
high  above  the  other,  and  so  the  most  prominent  and 
striking  feature.  I n favor  of  this  explanation  it  may  be 
remarked  that  the  peer  is  more  particularly  connected 
with  the  migbaah,  the  high  cap  of  the  ordinary  priests, 
in  Exod.  xxxix,  28,  while  the  tsaniph,  as  we  have  seen, 
resembled  the  high-priest’s  mitre,  in  which  the  cap  was 
concealed  by  the  linen  folds.  1 lie  objection,  however, 
to  this  explanation  is  that  the  etymological  force  of 
peer  is  not  brought  out : may  not  that  term  have  ap- 
plied to  the  jewels  and  other  ornaments  with  which  the 
turban  is  frequently  decorated  (Russell,  i,  106).  The 


HEAD-DRESS 


112 


HEAD-DRESS 


Head-dresses  of  Arabian  and  Turkish  Females. 


Modern  Egyptian  nead-dresses.  (From  Lane.) 


term  used  for  putting  on  either  the  tsaniph  or  the  peer 
is  DZn,  “ to  bind  round”  (Exod.  xxix,  9 ; Lev.  viii,  13) : 
hence  the  words  in  Ezelc.  xvi,  10,  “I  girded  thee  about 
with  tine  linen,”  are  to  be  understood  of  the  turban;* 
and  by  the  use  of  the  shme  term  Jonah  (ii,  5)  represents 
the  weeds  wrapped  as  a turban  round  his  head.  The 
turban,  as  now  worn  in  the  East,  varies  very  much  in 
shape  (Russell’s  Aleppo,  i,  102).  It  appears  that  fre- 
quently the  robes  supplied  the  place  of  a head-dress,  be- 
ing so  ample  that  they  might  be  thrown  over  the  head 
at  pleasure : the  radid  and  the  tstiiph , at  all  events,  were 
so  used  [see  Dress],  and  the  veil  served  a similar  pur- 
pose. See  Veil.  The  ordinary  head-dress  of  the  Bedouin 
consists  of  the  Jceffiyeh,  a square  handkerchief,  generally 
of  red  and  yellow  cotton,  or  cotton  and  silk,  folded  so 
that  three  of  the  corners  hang  down  over  the  back  and 
shoulders,  leaving  the  face  exposed,  and  bound  round 
the  head  by  a cord  (Burckhardt,  Notes,  i,  48).  It  is  not 
improbable  that  a similar  covering  was  used  by  the  He- 
brews on  certain  occasions:  the  “kerchief”  in  Ezek. 
xiii,  18  has  been  so  understood  by  some  writers  (Ilar- 
mer,  Observations,  ii,  393),  though  the  word  more  prob- 
ably refers  to  a species  of  veil:  and  the  oipikivQiov 


Various  Forms  of  the  modern  Turban. 


Bedouin  Ilead-dress,  or  Keffiyeli. 

(Acts  xix,  12,  A.  Vers,  “apron”),  as  explained  by  Suidas 


(to  Tijg  Kt^aXyc  Qnprjim),  was  applicable  to  the  pur- 
poses of  a head-dress.  >See  Handkerchief.  Neither 
of  these  cases,  however,  supplies  positive  evidence  on 
the  point,  and  the  general  absence  of  allusions  leads  to 
the  inference  that  the  head  was  usually  uncovered,  as  is 
still  the  case  in  many  parts  of  Arabia  (Wcllstcd,  Trav- 
els, i.  73).  The  introduction  of  the  Greek  hat  (7 rirocror) 
by  Jason,  as  an  article  of  dress  adapted  to  the  aymna- 
sium,  was  regarded  as  a national  dishonor  (2  ]\Iacc.  iv, 
1‘2) : in  shape  and  material  the  petasm  very  much  re- 
sembled the  common  felt  hats  of  this  country  (Smith, 
Diet,  of  Ant.  s.  v.  Pileus). — Smith,  s.  v.  See  Bonnet. 

The  monuments  and  paintings  in  the  tombs  of  Egypt 
supply  us  with  numerous  forms  of  head-dresses;  and 
there  is  no  doubt  that  many  of  these  were  the  prevail- 
ing costume  at  the  period  when  the  Israelites  sojourned 
there.  Among  the  ruins  of  Persepolis  are  found  nu- 
merous sculptures  which  give  the  shape  of  various  cov- 


HEAD-DRESS 


113 


HEAL 


erings  for  the  head  used  by  men.  The  care  bestowed 


upon  this  part  of  the  toilet  among  the  Assyrians  and 
Babylonians  is  abundantly  illustrated  in  the  volumes  of 
Botta  and  Layard.  “The  Assyrian  head-dress  is  de- 


Ancient  Assyrian  Head-dresses:  1,  2.  Foreign  Captives; 
3,  Itoyal ; *4,  Persepolitau,  on  the  Head  the  symbolic 
Figure  of  Cyrus ; 5,  Sacred. 


to  the  description  of  a turban  {/asciis  obvolvit,  Gesenius, 
Thesaurus , p.  542).  The  associated  term  seruchey  ex- 
presses the  flowing  character  of  the  Eastern  head-dress, 
as  it  falls  down  over  the  back  (Layard,  Nineveh,  ii,  308). 
The  word  rendered  ‘ hats’  in  Dan.  iii,‘21  (xb2“>2)  prop- 
erly applies  to  a cloak ” (.Smith). 

The  shebisim ' (Isa.  iii,  18),  rendered  in  our 

version  “cards,”  or,  as  in  the  margin,  “networks,”  were 
most  probably  some  kind  of  reticulated  head-dresses,  and 
so  the  word  is  understood  in  the  Talmud.  See  Caul. 

A very  peculiar  kind  of  head-dress  worn  in  some 
parts  of  Palestine,  especially  by  the  Druses  of  Mount 
Lebanon,  and  thought  to  be  referred  to  by  the  kef- 
ren,  or  “horn”  of  1 Sam.  ii,  1,  is  the  tantura.  It  is 
made  of  gold  or  silver,  frequently  of  other  metal  either 
gilt  or  silver-plated,  and  sometimes  of  mere  wood.  The 
more  costly  ones  are  highly  ornamented,  and  occasiou- 


Tke  Tantura. 


ally  set  with  jewels;  but  the  length  and  position  of 
them  is  that  upon  which  the  traveller  looks  with  the 
greatest  interest,  as  illustrating  and  explaining  a famil- 
iar expression  of  Scripture.  The  young,  the  rich,  and 
the  vain  wear  the  tantura  of  great  length,  standing 
straight  up  from  the  top  of  the  forehead ; vfliereas  the 
humble,  the  poor,  and  the  aged  place  it  upon  the  side 
of  the  head,  much  shorter,  aud  spreading  at  the  end  like 
a trumpet.  See  IIorx. 

For  other  forms  of  royal  head-dresses,  see  Croavx. 
For  military  ones,  see  Helmet. 

Head  of  the  Church,  a title  which  properly  be- 
longs only  to  Christ  (Ephes.  v,  23),  as  the  Supreme  Gov- 
ernor of  the  -whole  body  of  the  faithful.  It  is  applied  to 
the  sovereign  of  Great  Britain  as  the  ruler  of  the  tem- 
poralities of  the  Church.  “ Some  have  imagined  (the 
members  of  the  Boraish  Church,  for  instance)  that  the 
Christian  workl  is  ‘permanently,’  and  from  generation 
to  generation,  subject  to  some  one  spiritual  rider  (wheth- 
er an  individual  man  or  a Church),  the  delegate,  repre- 
sentative, and  vicegerent  of  Christ,  whose  authority 
should  be  binding  on  the  conscience  of  all,  and  decisive 
on  every  point  of  faith.”  But,  had  such  been  our  Lord  s 
design,  he  could  not  possibly  have  faded,  -when  promis- 
ing his  disciples  “another  Comforter,  who  should  abide 
with  them  forever,”  to  refer  them  to  the  man  or  body 
of  men  who  should,  in  perpetual  succession,  be  the  de- 
pository of  this  divine  consolation  and  supremacy.  It 
is  also  incredible,  had  such  been  our  Lord’s  purpose,  that 
be  himself  shoidd  he  perpetually  spoken  of  and  alluded 
to  as  the  Head  of  his  Church,  without  any  reference  to 
any  supreme  head  on  earth  as  fully  representing  him, 
and  bearing  universal  rule  in  his  name.  It  is  clear, 
therefore,  that  the  Christian  Church  universal  has  no 
spiritual  head  on  earth  (Eden,  Churchman's  Dictionary , 
s.  v.).  See  Pope  ; Papacy  ; Primacy. 


scribed  in  Ezek.  xxiii,  15,  under  the  terms  "'n!Hp 
‘ exceeding  in  dyed  attire it  is  doubtful,  how- 
ever, whether  tebulim  describes  the  colored  material  of 
the  head-dress  (< tiarce  a coloribus  quibus  tindm  siut) ; 
another  sense  has  been  assigned  to  it  more  appropriate 
IV— H 


Heal  (properly  NE1^,  Sepairtyw)  is  used  in  Scripture 
in  the  wider  sense  of  curing  in  general,  as  applied  to 
diseases,  and  even  to  inanimate  objects.  It  occurs  also 
in  the  special  sense  of  restoring  from  apostasy.  See 
Disease;  Cure. 


HEAP 


114 


HEART 


Heap.  The  Hebrew  word  godish',  rendered 

4i  tomb”  in  Job  xxi,  32,  and  " heap”  in  the  margin,  prop- 
erly signifies  a stack,  a heap,  hence  a tomb,  tumulus,  a 
sepulchral  mound  that  was  made  by  a pile  of  earth  or 
stones.  The  ancient  tumuli  were  heaps  of  earth  or 
stone,  and  probably  such  a pile  was  usually  made  over 
a grave  as  a monument.  Travellers  in  the  East  have 
often  seen  heaps  of  stones  covering  over  or  marking  the 
place  of  graves.  The  Hebrew  phrase  bb&  EV1EN 
pul  abunim'  gadoV,  rendered  “ a great  heap  of  stones,” 
refers  to  the  heaps  or  tumuli  which  were  raised  over 
those  whose  death  was  either  infamous  or  attended  with 
some  very  remarkable  circumstances.  Such  was  the 
monument  raised  over  the  grave  of  Achan  (Josh,  vii, 
2G) ; and  over  that  of  the  king  of  Ai  (Josh,  viii,  20). 
The  burying  of  Absalom  was  distinguished  by  a similar 
erection,*  as  a monument  of  his  disgrace  to  future  ages 
(2  Sam.  xviii,  17).  The  same  word  b|,  gal,  is  com- 
monly used  in  reference  to  the  heaps  or  ruins  of  walls 
and  cities  (Job  viii,  17 ; Isa.  xxv,  2 ; li,  37 ; Jer.  ix,  10). 
Modem  travellers  abimdantly  testify  to  the  accurate 
fulfilment  of  Scripture  prophecy  in  relation  to  the  sites 
of  numerous  ancient  cities,  particularly  of  such  as  were 
doomed  to  become  desolate  heaps  (Bastow).  See  Pil- 
lar; Stone.  Other  Heb.  terms  translated  heap  are: 
“Vl'ri,  eho'mer,  a pile  (Exod.  viii,  14,  elsewhere  a ho- 
mer, as  a measure) ; meV,  a heap  of  rubbish  (Isa. 
xvii,  1) ; *7?,  ned,  a mouiui  (Isa.  xvii,  11 ; poet,  of  waves, 
Exod.  xv,  8;  Josh,  iii,  13,  16;  Fsa.  xxxiii,  7;  lxxviii, 
13) ; aremah',  a pile  (e.  g.  of  rubbish,  Xeh.  iii, 

34;  of  grain,  Cant,  vii,  3;  of  sheaves,  Ihith  iii,  7 ; Xeh. 
xiii,  15;  Hag.  ii,  16,  etc.) ; bn,  tel,  a hill  (Josh,  xi,  13; 
cspec.  a mound  of  rubbish,  Dcut.  xii,  17 ; Josh,  viii,  28; 
Jer.  xlix,  2,  etc.)  ; with  others  of  a more  miscellaneous 
signification.  See  Mound. 

Hearers  (audientes),  a name  given  to  a class  of 
catechumens  in  the  early  Church  who  were  admitted 
to  hoar  sermons  and  scriptures  read  in  the  church,  but 
were  not  allowed  to  share  in  the  prayers.  The  Apos- 
tolical Constitutions  (lib.  viii,  c.  5)  orders  the  deacon  to 
dismiss  them  with  the  words  Ne  quis  audientium,  ne 
fptis  injidelium  (“  Ect  none  of  the  hearers,  let  none  of  the 
unbelievers,  be  present”),  before  the  proper  liturgy  be- 
gan. See  Bingham,  Orig.  Eccles.  bk.  viii,  cl-  4 ; bk.  x, 
ch.  2;  bk.  xviii,  eh.  1. 


Hearse  or  Herse  (from  Eat.  herpix,  Low  Lat.  her- 
cia,  French  hrrze,  a harrow).  The  Low  Latin  herein  also 
signified  a candelabrum,  shaped  like  a harrow,  which  was 
placed  at  the  head  of  a grave,  a coffin,  or  a cenotaph.  In 
the  Middle  Ages  the  name  herse  was  applied  to  a cano- 
py (in  Italian,  catafcdco),  which  was  placed  over  the  cof- 
fins of  the  distinguished  dead,  while  they  were  kept  in 
the  church  previous  to  interment.  Horses  were  also 
frequently  prepared  to  receive  the  bodies  of  the  dead  in 
churches,  at  stations  along  the  route,  where  they  were 
being  borne  to  a distance  for  final  interment.  Herses 
were  often  made  with  great  magnificence.  They  were 
frequently  adorned  with  illustrations  of  the  last  judg- 
ment, and  other  subjects  taken  from  the  Scriptures. 
Candles  were  set  in  sockets  in  great  numbers,  and  were 
kept  burning  as  long  as  the  corpse  remained  in  the 
herse.  The  name  herse  was  also  applied  to  a frame  of 
wood  or  of  metal  that  was  placed  over  some  of  the  re- 
clining statues  which  were,  so  frequently  put  over  the 
tombs  of  distinguished  persons.  Over  this  herse  a pall 
was  frequently  hung.  The  modem  use  of  the  word 
hearse  is  confined  to  a frame-work  or  a wagon  to  bear 


Herse. 


the  dead  to  the  grave.  The  hearse  varies  greatly  in 
form  and  ornamentation  in  different  countries. — Diez, 
Efymologisches  Worterbueh  (Bonn,  1861) ; Parker,  Diet, 
of  Architecture  (Oxford,  1850) ; Migne,  Dictionnaire  des 
Origines  (Paris,  1864).  (G.  F.  C.) 

Heart,  in  the  Biblical  sense  (icapSia ; ^b  or  Sib^ 
often  exchanged  for  in  a more  extended  sense,  as 
in  Psa.  xxxix,  3, 4 ; cix,  22 ; 1 Sam.  xxv,  37,  the  whole 
region  of  the  chest,  with  its  contents ; see  Delitzsch, 
System  of  Biblical  Psychology , § 12,  13.  According  to 
Htipfeld,  3bn,  in  Psa.  xvii,  10,  and  lxxiii,  7,  means  sim- 
ply the  heart,  which  is  not  very  likely). 

1.  In  the  Biblical  point  of  view,  human  life,  in  all  its 
operations,  is  centred  in  the  heart.  The  heart  is  the 
central  organ  of  the  physical  circulation;  hence  the  ne- 
cessity for  strengthening  the  body  as  a support  for  the 
heart  pb  nnO,  Gen.  xviii,  5;  Judges  xix,  5;  Psa.  civ, 
15) ; and  the  exhaustion  of  physical  power  is  called  a 
drying  up  of  the  heart  (Psa.  cii,  5;  xxii,  15,  etc.).  So, 
also,  is  the  heart  the  centre  of  spiritual  activity ; for 
all  spiritnal  aims,  whether  belonging  to  the  intellectu- 
al, moral,  or  pathological  spheres,  are  elaborated  in  the 
heart,  and  again  carried  out  by  the  heart.  In  fact,  the 
whole  life  of  the  soul,  in  the  lower  and  sensual,  as  well 
as  in  the  higher  spheres,  has  its  origin  in  the  heart 
(Prov.  iv,  23,  “For  out  of  it  are  the  issues  of  life”).  In 
order  to  follow  this  train  of  thought,  and  to  establish  in 
a clearer  light  the  Biblical  view  of  the  heart,  it  will  be 
best  to  consider  the  relation  the  heart  bears  to  the  soul 
(ipvxi/,  *£E3).  This  is  one  of  the  difficult  questions  in 
Biblical  psychology;  Olsliausen  (in  the  Abh.de  natures 
kumanee  trichotomia,  ojmse.  theol.  p.  159)  says,  “ Omnium 
longe  difficillhnmn  est  accurate  definirc  qnidnam  discri- 
men  in  X.  T.  inter  4/vX,'lv  nopSiav  intercedat.”  Xev- 
erthelcss,  the  task  is  facilitated  by  the  fact  that  there  is 
essential  agreement  on  this  point  in  the  anthropologies 
of  the  Old  and  Xew  Testament. 

(1)  We  first  note  that,  while,  as  before  said,  the  heart 
is  the  centre  of  all  the  functions  of  the  soul’s  life,  the 
terms  “ heart”  and  “ soul”  are  often  used  interchangea- 
bly in  Scripture.  Thus,  in  Dcut.  vi,  5 (compare  Matt, 
xxii,  37 ; Mark  xii,  30,  33;  Luke  x,  27),  and  xxvi,  16, 
we  are  commanded  to  love  God  and  obey  his  com- 
mandments with  all  our  heart  and  all  our  soul  (com- 
pare 1 Chron.  xxviii,  9) ; the  union  of  the  faithful, 
in  Acts  iv,  12,  is  designated  as  gv  if  KapSta  Kai  if 
if/vyi/  pin.  (In  these  passages,  as  in  others,  for  in- 
stance, Dent,  xi,  18  ; xxx,  2 ; Jer.  xxxii,  41,  there 
is,  moreover,  to  be  noticed  that  the  heart  is  always 
named  first.)  Thus  the  indecision  and  division  of  the 
inner  life  can  be  designated  either  by  c!n//u\'oc  (James  i, 
8)  or  by  Kapcia  H tea  if.  It  is  said  of  both  cq  Kctp- 

| ctag  (James  iv,  8)  and  c'tyriZeiv  i pvxdg  (I  Pet.  i,  22) ; 
also  VUE 3 "S'j  (Psa.  xlii,  5;  comp.  Job  xxx,  16)  and 
I’sb  “E'J  (Lam.  ii,  10 ; Psa.  lxii,  9),  the  self-impelling 
to  the  love  of  God  applies  as  well  to  the  soul  (Psa. 
ciii)  as  to  the  D“Q2j?,  of  which  the  heart  is  the  centre, 
etc.  But  in  the  majority  of  passages,  where  either  the 
heart  or  the  soul  arc  separately  spoken  of,  the  term 
“ heart”  can  either  not  be  exchanged  at  all  for  the  term 
“ sold,”  or  else  only  with  some  modification  in  the  mean- 
ing. 

(2)  Xote  also  the  following  fundamental  distinction: 
The  sold  is  the  bearer  of  the  personality  (i.  e.  of  the  ego, 
the  proper  self)  of  man,  in  virtue  of  the  indwelling  spirit 
(Prov.  xx,  27 ; 1 Cor.  ii,  11),  but  yet  is  not  itself  Wee  per- 
son of  man;  the  heart,  on  the  contrary  (the  'Ip 
Prov.  xx,  27),  is  the  place  where  the  process  of  self-con- 
sciousness is  developed,  in  which  the  soul  finds  itself, 
and  thus  becomes  conscious  of  its  actions  and  impres- 
sions as  its  own  (“in  corde  actiones  animie  humanae  ad 
ipsam  redeunt,”  as  is  concisely  and  correctly  said  by 
ljoos  in  his  Fundam.  psychol.  ex  s.  scr.,  1769,  p.  99).  Ac* 

i cordingly  the  soul,  not  the  heart,  is  spoken  of  when  the 


HEART 


115 


HEART 


whole  human  being  as  such,  and  liis  physical  or  spiritu- 
al welfare  or  perdition  are  meant.  This  is  seen  on  com- 
pariilg  such  passages  as  Job  xxxiii,  18,22,28;  Psa.  xciv, 
17;  and  the  expressions  of  the  X.  T.  7rtptiroigaig  if/vyi/g 
(IIeb.x,39);  cnroXiaai  ri/vt[/vxrjv  (Mark  viii, 35;  comp. 
Matt,  x,  39;  James  i,21)  ; aionipia  (1 Fet.  i,9) ; 

dvcnravaiv  evpiaKtiv  raig  ipv\aig  (Matt.  xi,  29).  The 
soul  being  the  subject  of  salvation  (Matt.  xvi,  26),  it  is 
said,  in  regard  to  the  carnal  desires,  which  endanger  its 
salvation,  that  they  war  against  the  soul,  arpartvovTai 
Kara  ri)g  (1  Pet-  ii,  11 ; comp.  Prov.  vi,  26).  In 

all  these  passages  it  were  impossible  to  substitute  lb 
or  Kapdia,  for  1223  or  ipvX'l  5 nor  can  we  make  the  t7rt- 
<tko7to£  rutv  (pvx&v  (1  Pet.  ii,  25)  equivalent  to  the 
KapSioyvwargg  (Acts  i,  24) ; nor  could  we  substitute 
“heart”  for  “soul”  with  regard  to  the  oath  in  2 Cor. 
i,  23) ; neither  can  lab  be  said  of  the  “2”  (Psa. 
xxii,  30),  instead  of  PPH  xb  V223,  for  223  rpn 
(Psa.  xxii,  27 ; lxix,  33)  has  an  essentially  different 
meaning  from  2*23  Pr'PI  (comp.  Jer.  xxxviii,  17, 20). 
When  Xabal  lost  consciousness  in  consequence  of  fear, 
his  soul  still  dwelt  in  him  (see  Acts  xx,  10) ; but  yet,  ac- 
cording to  1 Sam.  xxv,  37,  his  heart  died  within  him. 
When  fear  suspends  consciousness  the  heart  fails  (Gen. 
xlii,  26).  On  the  other  hand,  FIX  S’1  (Cant,  v,  6), 

which  commentators  combine  with  33  XU",  has  an  en- 
tirely different  meaning,  namely,  that  the  very  self  of 
the  lover  draws  the  beloved  after  it.  Moreover,  when 
expressing  inward  contemplation,  some  feeling  or  action 
taking  place  within  man,  the  elaboration  of  a plan  or 
resolution,  we  find  almost  invariably  the  heart  named, 
and  not  the  sonl  (lloos,  Fundam.  psychol. : “ Dura  ipsa 
[anima]  sibi  aliquid  ostendit  ac  proponit,  ad  cor  suum 
loqui  dicitur;  dum  suarum  actionum  sibi  conseia  est  ct 
illarum  innocentiam  vel  tnrpitiulinem  ipsa  sentit,  id  ad 
cor  refertur.  Anima  humana  ut  \pvxt)  suavia  appetit, 
ut  spiritus  serntatur,  etc.,  sed  quatenus  cor  habet,  ipsa 
novit,  se  hoc  agere  et  ideas  reflexas  habet”).  To  this 
head  belong  the  expressions  V'l*  333  C2  (Dent,  viii, 
5)  ; ilb-bwX  2^’rn  (Isa.  xliv,  19,  etc.)  ; isb'bx  “2X 
(this  is  even  applied  to  God,  Gen.  viii,  21)  ; ^233  “FH, 
^23  E3,  "2232,  33  b’J  2^2,  223  r.r 2133  (Psa. 
lxxiii,  7);  3b  "3“2‘2  (Prov.  xvi,  1)  (for  the  particu- 
lars of  these,  see  a lexicon)  ; among  the  expressions  of 
the  X.T.S'cff.Jni  iv  rg  Kapciq.  (Luke  i, 66) ; ivSvptlaSai 
Iv  raig  KapCtaig  (ISTatt".  ix,  4);  StaXoyiZiaiai  iv  k ap- 
Siaig  (Luke  iii,  15;  Mark  ii,  8;  comp.  Luke  xxiv,  28)  ; 
(3ov\ai  ru)v  mpdiuiv  (l  Cor.  iv,  5,  etc.). 

(3)  But  the  heart  is  not  merely  the  organ  of  pure  inward 

self-consciousness,  but  also  of  all  the  functions  of  percep- 
tion in  general,  so  that  2b,  in  a restricted  sense,  acquires 
the  signification  of  mind  or  understanding ; for  instance, 
223  viri  cordati  (Job  xxxiv,  10)  ; 3b  “"X  = 323 

(Jer.  ii, 21 ; comp.  Prov.  xvii,  16);  also  of  God  HD  “"22 
23  (Job  xxxvi,5);  23  2H"l  (1  Kings  v,9).  The  passage 
Psa.  cxix,  32,  and  the  very  variously  interpreted  passage 
2 Kings  v,  26,  are  also  to  be  understood  in  that  manner. 
The  Sept,,  therefore,  often  translates  23  simply  by  vovg 
(Exod.  vii,  23 ; Isa.  x,  7,  etc.).  On  the  close  connection 
between  these  two  views,  see  Heck,  Christl  Leh'wissen- 
sehaft.  (i,  233).  There  are,  of  course,  exceptions.  The 
soul  is  also  presented  as  the  subject  of  perception  (Prov. 
xix,  2;  Psa.  cxxxix,  14) ; the  thoughts  which  influence 
man  are  also  called  the  language  and  thoughts  of  the 
sold  (Lam.  iii,  20,  24;  1 Sam.  xx,  4).  The  soul  is  the 
seat  of  imagination  (Esth.  iv,  13),  the  place  where  coun- 
sel is  taken  (Psa.  xiii,  2 sq.).  Yet  such  passages  are 
comparatively  few  (comp.  Delitzsch,  § xii),  and  even  in 
them  the  soul  sometimes  appears  to  he  mentioned,  as  in 
the  last-named  passage,  only  in  consequence  of  the  ne- 
cessity of  a second  expression  in  the  parallelisms. 

(4)  On  the  other  hand,  the  disposition  of  mind  and  pas- 


sion are  as  often  attributed  to  the  soul  as  to  the  heart, 
according  as  they  are  considered  either  as  pervading 
the  whole  personality  of  man,  or  a disposition  governing 
the  whole  inner  nature  of  man.  It  is  said  in  Matt,  xxvq 
38,  TrtpiXwnog  ianv  t)  ^v\>l  pov;  John  xii,  27,  i)  ipuxU 
pov  rtrapaKrai ; while  in  John  xvi,  6,  it  says  i)  Xv7nj 
imrXgpu)Ktv  ipwv  n)v  Kapciav  (comp.  Horn,  ix,  2) ; xvi, 
1,/w)  rapaoaiaSroj  vpwv  i)  KapFia;  2 Cor.  ii,  4,  SXltbtg 
Kai  aw oyi)  Kapuag,  etc.  We  find  also  grief  and  care, 
fear  and  terror,  joy  and  confidence,  etc.,  attributed  in- 
differently to  the  heart  or  to  the  soul  in  the  O T-  (see 
Deut.  xxviii,  65 ; Prov.  xii,  25;  Eccles.  xi,  10;  Jer.  xv, 
16;  1 Sam.  ii,  1;  Psa.  xxviii,  7 ; Exod.  xxiii,  9 (where 
Luther  translates  1223  by  heart) ; Psa.  vi,  4;  xlii,  6,  7; 
Isa.  Lxi,  10;  Psa.  Ixii,  2;  cxxxi,  2;  cxvi,  7).  Custom 
has  here  established  arbitrary  distinctions  between  the 
different  expressions:  thus  FF2!  and  its  derivatives  are 
generally  connected  with  1223,  and  JT2:J  and  its  deriv- 
atives with  3b.  The  passage  Prov.  xiv,  10  is  of  espe- 
cial interest  in  this  respect.  On  the  contrary,  we  find 
'—S3  instead  of  23  when  speaking  of  those  functions  in 
which  the  subject  is  apprehended  as  acting  on  an  object. 
A remarkable  passage  in  this  sense  is  found  in  Jer.  iv, 
19 : the  soul  hears  the  noise  of  war,  and  the  heart  is 
pained  and  grieved  by  it  (in  an  entirely  different  sense 
we  find  2p:2  2b,  1 Kings  iii,  9).  Here  we  must,  how- 
ever, notice  that,  as  Delitzsch  (p.  162)  very  correctly 
remarks,  in  the  conception  of  1223,  ij/uyr/,  the  idea  of  de- 
sire is  evidently  prevalent  over  all  others.  All  the  im- 
pulses by  which  human  actions  are  governed  (see  Exod, 
xxxv,  5,22,  29),  the  disposition  of  mind  which  regulates 
them,  the  wishes,  desires,  etc.,  originate  in  the  heart 
(comp.  Ezek.  xi,  21;  xx,  16;  xxxiii,  31 ; Deut.  xi,  16; 
Job  xxxi,  7,  9,  27 ; Psa.  Ixvi,  18  ; Prov.  vi,  25;  Matt,  v,* 
28) ; but  as  soon  as  the  disposition  of  the  will  turns  to 
an  outward  manifestation  of  the  desires,  the  122  3,  i/zuy/;, 
comes  into  plav.  Yet  the  root  FPX  and  its  derivatives 
are  almost  exclusively  connected  with  1223  (only  in  Psa. 
xxi,  3 do  we  find  23  P^XPl;  comp,  imSuptai  ru>v  Kap- 
duuv,  Pom.  i,  24 ; see  other  passages,  like  Psa.  lxxxiv,  3 ; 
cxix,  20,  81 ; Isa.  xxvi,  8,  9 ; Jer.  xxii,  7).  We  even 
find  1223  used  sometimes  to  signify  tho  desire  itself,  as 
particularly  in  Eccl.  vi,  7,  9.  Thus  wc  can  explain 
1223  2TWI7  (Isa.  v,  14;  llab.  ii,  5;  Prov.  xiii,  2)  and 
'223  2rH  (Prov.  xxviii,  25) ; the  latter  is  distinct  from 
33  2rn  (Psa.  ci,  5),  which  Ewald  erroneously  trans- 
lates by  “ covetous  heart,”  while  in  Prov.  xxi,  4 it  sig- 
nifies the  advancing  certainty. 

2.  From  the  foregoing  explanations  we  can  deduce 
the  ethical  and  religious  signification  of  the  word  heart. 
(1)  As  the  heart  is  the  home  of  the  personal  life,  the 
workshop  where  all  personal  appropriation  and  elabora- 
tion of  spiritual  things  have  their  seat,  it  follows  that 
the  moral  and  religious  development  of  man— in  fact,  his 
whole  moral  personality,  is  also  centred  in  i t.  Only  that 
which  has  entered  the  heart  constitutes  a possession,  hav- 
ing a moral  worth,  while  only  that  which  comes  from  the 
heart  is  a moral  product.  From  the  nature  and  contents 
of  the  heart,  by  a law  of  natural  connection  — similar  to 
that  which  exists  between  the  tree  and  its  fruits  (Matt, 
xii,  33  sq.) — results  the  individual’s  course  of  life  as  a 
whole ; and  from  them  all  his  personal  acts  derive  their 
character  and  moral  signification.  Hence  Ik  Kaociag  is 
applied  to  whatever  is  of  a real  moral  nature  in  contra- 
distinction from  mere  outward  appearance  (Rom.  vi,  17 ; 
comp.  Matt,  xv,  8 ; 1 Tim.  i,  5).  Even  in  speaking  of  God 
we  find  it  said,  in  order  to  express  the  distinction  between 
what  is  essential  to  his  nature  and  the  appearance  as 
perceived  by  man,  “He  doth  not  *23*2  willingly  afflict” 
(Lam.  iii,  83).  That  the  divine  judgment  on  man  will  be 
directed  by  what  he  is,  not  by  what  he  may  appear  to  be, 
is  described  as  a looking  upon  his  heart  (1  Sam.  xvi,  7 ; 
Jer.  xx,  12);  a knowing  or  trying  of  the  heart  (1  Kings 


HEART 


116 


HEART 


viii,  30 ; Luke  xvi,l5;  Prov.  xvii,  3;  Psa.vii,10;  xvii, 
3;  Jer.  xi,  *20).  Therefore  also  man  is  designated  ac- 
cording to  his  heart  in  all  that  relates  to  habitual  moral 
qualities;  thus  we  read  of  a wise  heart  (1  Kings  v,  12; 
Prov.  x.  8,  etc.),  a pure  heart  (Psa.  xli,  12 ; Matt,  v,  8 ; 

1 Tim.  i,  5;  2 Tim.  ii,  22),  an  upright  and  righteous 
heart  ((ien.xx,5,G;  Psa.xi,2;  Lxxviii,7*2;  ci,  2),  a sin- 
gle heart  (Eph.  v,  5 ; Col.  iii,  22),  a pious  and  good  heart 
(Luke  viii,  15),  a lowly  heart  (Matt,  xi,  29),  etc.  In  all 
these  places  it  would  be  difficult  to  introduce  or 

(■>)  We  must  also  observe  that  the  original  divine  rule 
of  conduct  for  man  was  implanted  in  his  heart,  and  there- 
fore the  heart  is  the  seat  of  the  cvvtiegmg,  or  conscience, 
which  has  a mission  to  proclaim  that  rule  (Korn,  ii,  15). 
All  subsequent  divine  revelations  were  also  directed  to 
the  heart  (Dent,  vi,  G) ; so  the  law  demands  that  God 
should  be  loved  with  the  whole  heart,  and  then,  as  though 
by  radiation  from  this  centre,  with  the  whole  soul  (comp. 
I)eut.  xi,  18;  Psa.  cxix,  11,  etc.).  The  teaching  of  wis- 
dom also  enters  the  heart,  and  from  thence  spreads  its 
healing  and  vivifying  influence  through  the  whole  organ- 
ism (Prov.  iv,  21-23).  The  prophetic  consolations  must 
speak  to  the  heart  (Isa.  xl,  2),  in  contradistinction  from 
such  consolations  as  do  not  reach  the  bottom  of  human 
nature;  thus  also, in  Matt,  xiii,  9;  Luke  viii,  15,  we  find 
the  heart  described  as  the  ground  on  which  the  seed  of 
the  divine  Word  is  to  be  sowed.  That  which  becomes 
assimilated  to  the  heart  constitutes  the  Sgaavpog  t ijg 
nape  lag  (Matt.  xii,35).  This,  however,  may  not  only 
be  dyaSbg,  but  also  7roi >r)p6g  ; for  the  human  heart  is 
not  only  a recipient  of  divine  principles  of  life,  but  also 
of  evil. 

(3)  In  opposition  to  the  superficial  doctrine  which 
jnakesman  in  regard  to  morals  anindifferentbeing,  Scrip- 
ture presents  to  us  the  doctrine  of  the  natural  wicked- 
ness of  the  human  heart,  the  E3  ‘IIJ?  (Gen.  viii,  21),  or, 
more  completely,  **I1P  -5  ^*-'l:n*a  (vi,  5;  compare  1 
Chron.  xxviii,9),  and  considers  sin  as  having  penetrated 
the  centre  of  life,  from  whence  it  contaminates  its  whole 
course.  “I low  can  ye, being  evil,  speak  good  things? 
for  out  of  the  abundance  of  the  heart  the  mouth  speak- 
eth”  (Matt,  xii,  31;  comp.  Eccles.  viii,  11;  Psa.  lxxiii, 
7);  and  those  things  which  come  out  of  the  heart  defile 
the  man  (Matt,  xv,  18).  The  heart  is  described  as  “de- 
ceitful (or,  more  properly,  -p2,  crooked,  the  opposite  of 
straight')  above  all  things,  and  desperately  wick- 
ed” (’w*5X)  (Jcr.  xvii,  9);  so  that  God  alone  can  thor- 
oughly sound  the  depths  of  its  wickedness  (compare  1 
John  iii,  20).  Hence  the  prayer  in  Psa.  cxxxix,  23.  In 
this  natural  state  of  unsusceptibility  for  good  the  heart 
is  called  uncircumciscd,  (Numb.  xxvi,4I ; compare 
Dent,  x,  1G;  Ezck.  xliv,  9).  Man,  frightened  at  the 
manifestation  of  divine  holiness,  may  take  within  him- 
self the  resolution  of  fulfilling  the  divine  commands 
(l)eut.  v,  21);  yet  the  divine  voice  complains  (v,  29), 
“Oh  that  there  were  such  a heart  in  them  that  they 
would  fear  me  1”  etc.  Therefore  the  whole  Revelation  has 
for  its  object  to  change  the  heart  of  man;  and  its  whole 
aim  is  to  destroy,  by  virtue  of  its  divine  efficacy,  the  un- 
susceptibility (“stupiditas,  qua  centrum  animae  laborat,” 
as  Room  expresses  it,  p.  153)  and  the  antagonism  of  the 
heart,  and  to  substitute  for  them  the  fear  of  God  in  the 
heart  (Jcr.  xxxii,  40),  so  that  the  law  may  be  admitted 
(Jcr.  xxxi.  33).  'I  bis  is  the  effect  of  the  operations  of 
the  Holy  Spirit, whose  workings,  as  shown  in  the  O.T., 


scribed  as  a fastening  (according  to  the  original  mean- 
ing of  jn*?ISil),  a strengthening  (j^iEXH,  Psa.  xxvii, 
14;  xxxi,  24),  a supporting  of  the  heart  (comp,  partic- 
ularly Psa.  cxii,  7)  on  the  ground  which  is  God  him- 
self, the  Zzb  “TlS  (Psa.  lxxiii,  2G).  The  N.  T.  says  in 
the  same  manner:  icapcta  TriaTtvtTciL  (Rom.  x,  9,  10), 
moTtvtiv  £ £ bXgg  rijg  Kapctag;  faith  is  a pt)  dcaicpi- 
veoSrm  iv  KapSiy  (Mark  xxi,  23).  God  purifies  the 
heart  by  faith  in  Christ  (Acts  xv,  9),  for  by  the  sprink- 
ling of  the  blood  of  atonement  the  heart  is  rid  of  the 
bad  conscience  (Heb.  x,  22;  compare  1 John  iii,  19-21), 
and  the  love  of  God  is  shed  in  it  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
(Horn,  v,  5).  The  same  spirit  also  seals  in  the  heart 
the  assurance  of  being  a child  of  God  (2  Cor.  i,  22) ; the 
heart  becomes  the  abode  of  Christ  (Eph.  iii,  16),  is  pre- 
served in  Christ  (Col.  iii,  15;  Phil,  iv,  7),  and  strength- 
ened in  sanctification  (1  Thes.  iii,  13,  etc.). 

When,  on  the  contrary',  mar.  rejects  the  testimony  of 
revelation,  the  heart  becomes  hardened,  turns  to  stone 
(iTi'pn,  Psa.  xevi,  8 ; Prov.  xxviii,  14 ; pSS,  2 Chron. 
xxxvi,  13;  p;Vn,  Exod.  iv,  21 ; TES,  1 Sam.  vi,  G),  for 
which  we  find  it  also  said  that  the  heart  is  shut  (Isa. 
xliv,  18),  made  fat  (Isa.  vi,  10;  compare  Psa.  cxix,  70). 
In  the  N.  Test,  we  find  7 rtuptoeng  icapciag  (Mark  iii,  5; 
Eph.  iv,  18);  (rkXrjpoKapcia  (Matt,  xix,  8,  etc.).  The 
most  important  passage  in  this  respect  is  Isa.  vi,  10, 
where  we  find  it  particularly'  stated  how  the  unsuscepti- 
ble heart  renders  one  unable  to  see  the  work  of  God,  to 
hear  his  Word,  and  how  this  inability'  reacts  on  the 
heart,  and  renders  its  state  incurable. 

3.  Finally’,  the  question  of  the  position  the  heart,  as 
centre  of  the  spiritual  life  of  the  soul,  holds  in  regard  to 
the  heart,  considered  as  the  centre  of  the  organic  (phy'S- 
! ical)  life,  cannot  be  fully  treated  except  in  a thorough  in- 
vestigation of  the  relations  between  the  body'  and  soul  in 
general.  We  will  only  remark  here  that  the  Scriptures 
not  only'  draw  a parallel  between  the  body  and  the  soul, 
by  virtue  of  which  the  bodily'  actions  are  considered  as 
sy’mbols  of  the  spiritual,  but  also  establish  the  position 
that  the  soul,  which  is  the  bearer  of  the  personality',  is 
the  same  which  directs  also  the  life  and  actions;  and 
thus  the  bodily*  organs,  in  their  higher  functions,  become 
its  adjuncts.  Now,  in  view  of  the  well-known  fact  that 
emotions  and  sufferings  affect  the  physical  economy' — 
for  example,  that  the  pulsations  of  the  heart  are  affected 
by  them — no  one  will  consider  it  a mere  figure  of  speech 
when  the  Psalmist  say’s,  “My  heart  was  hot  within  me” 
(Psa.  xxxix,  3),  or  Jeremiah  speaks  of  “ a burning  fire 
shut  up  in  his  bones”  (Jer.  xx,  9 ; comp.  iv.  19  ; xxiii,  9). 

But  there  is  one  point  worthy’  of  special  attention  in 
Biblical  anthropology’,  namely’,  the  specific  relation  the 
Bible  establishes  between  certain  parts  of  the  bodily’  or- 
ganism and  particular  actions  (see  what  Delitzsch,  Bib- 
lical Psychology , § 12, 13,  deduces  from  the  Biblical  sig- 
nification of  the  tTEH?,  the  liver,  the  kidneys'),  and  then 
the  part  attributed  to  the  heart  in  knowledge  and  will, 
considered  aside  from  the  head  and  brain.  It  is  well 
known  that  all  antiquity  agreed  with  the  Biblical  views 
in  these  respects.  In  regard  to  Homer’s  doctrine,  see 
Nagclsbach’s  Homer.  Thcologie,  p.  332  sq.  We  may’  also 
on  this  point  recall  the  expressions  cordatus,  recordari, 
vecors,  excors,  etc.  (see  especially  Cicero,  Titsc.  i,  9,  18, 
and  Plato,  Phcrd.  c.  45,  and  the  commentators  on  these 
passages).  As  Delitzsch  correctly  observes,  the  spiritu- 
al signification  of  the  heart  cannot  be  traced  back  to  it 
from  the  mere  fact  of  its  being  the  central  organ  of  the 
circulation.  The  manner  in  which  that  writer  has  made 


> !™Mt  *"  th0.  ,£?0"0ra,i.0"  of  the  heart  in  redemption  usc  „fthc  phenomena  of  somnambulism  to  explain  this 
Krek.  xxxv.  2b  sq  ; x,,  ISO,  transform,,,,;  tl,e  prophets  ls  deserving  of  due  notice,  vet  physiology  hal  thus  far 
into  new  creatures  by  means  of  a change  of  heart  (1  1 ..  . - 1 * =■• 

Sam.  x,  G,  9),  and  implanting  a willingness  to  obey’  God’s 
law  in  the  pious  (Psa.  Ii,  12-14). 

(4)  ( )n  the  part  of  man,  the  process  of  salvation  begins 
in  the  heart  by  the  faith  awakened  by  the  testimony’  of 
revelation ; which,  as  giving  a new  direction  to  the  inner 
life,  belongs  entirely  to  the  sphere  of  the  heart,  and  is  de- 


been  unable  to  throw  any  light  on  the  subject.— Oeliler, 
in  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  15  sq. 

4.  The  heart  expresses  the  middle  of  anything : “Tyre 
is  in  the  heart,”  in  the  midst,  “of the  sea”  (Ezek. xxvii, 
4).  “ We  will  not  fear,  though  the  mountains  be  car- 

ried into  the  heart  of  the  sea”  (Psa.  xlvi,  2).  “As  Jo- 
nah was  three  days  and  three  nights  in  the  whale’s 


HEARTH 


m 


HE-ASS 


bell}',  so  shall  the  Son  of  man  he  three  clays  and  three 
nights  in  the  heart  of  the  earth”  (Matt,  xii,  40).  Mo- 
ses, speaking  to  the  Israelites,  says,  “And  the  mountain 
burnt  with  lire,  unto  the  heart  of  heaven the  llame 
rose  as  high  as  the  clouds  (Calmct,  s.  v.). 

To  “say  in  one’s  heart”  is  a Hebrew  expression  for 
thinking  (Psa.  x,  G;  xiv,  1).  See  Soul. 

5.  Of  special  religious  importance  are  the  following 
practical  uses  of  the  word : 

Hardness  of  heart  is  “that  state  in  which  a sinner  is 
inclined  to  and  actually  goes  on  in  rebellion  against 
God.  This  state  evidences  itself  by  light  views  of  the 
evil  of  sin;  partial  acknowledgment  and  confession  of 
it;  frequent  commission  of  it;  pride  and  conceit;  in- 
gratitude; unconcern  about  the  Word  and  ordinances 
of  God;  inattention  to  divine  providences;  stifling  con- 
victions of  conscience ; slimming  reproof;  presumption, 
and  general  ignorance  of  divine  things.” 

Keeping  the  heart  is  “a  duty  enjoined  in  the  sacred 
Scriptures.  It  consists,  says  Flavcl,  in  the  diligent 
and  constant  use  and  improvement  of  all  holy  means 
and  duties  to  preserve  the  soul  from  sin,  and  maintain 
communion  with  God;  and  this,  he  properly  observes, 
supposes  a previous  work  of  sanctification,  which  hath 
Bet  the  heart  right  by  giving  it  a new  bent  and  incli- 
nation. 1.  It  includes  frequent  observation  of  the  frame 
of  the  heart  (Psa.  lxxvii,  6).  2.  Deep  humiliation  for 

heart  evils  and  disorders  (2  Chron.  xxxii,  26).  3.  Ear- 
nest supplication  for  heart  purifying  and  rectifying 
grace  (Psa.  xix,  12).  4.  A constant  holy  jealousy  over 

our  hearts  (Prov.  xxvii,  14).  5.  It  includes  the  realiz- 

ing of  God’s  presence  with  us,  and  setting  him  before 
us  (Psa.  xvi,  8;  Gen.  xvii,  1).  This  is,  1.  The  hardest 
Work ; heart  work  is  hard  work  indeed.  2.  Constant 
Work  (Exod.  xvii,  12).  3.  The  most  important  work 
(Prov.  xxiii,  26).  This  is  a dutg  tchich  should  be  at- 
tended to  if  ice  consider  it  in  connection  with,  1.  The  honor 
of  God  (Isa.  lxvi,  3).  2.  The  sincerity  of  our  profession 

(2  Kings  x,  31 ; Ezek.  xxxii,  31,  32).  3.  The  beauty 

of  our  conversation  (Prov.  xii,  26 ; Psa.  xlv,  1).  4.  The 

comfort  of  our  souls  (2  Cor.  xiii,  5).  5.  The  improve- 
ment of  our  graces  (Psa.  lxiii,  5,  6).  6.  The  stability  of 

our  souls  in  the  hour  of  temptation  (1  Cor.  xvi,  13). 
The  seasons  in  which  we  should  more  jmrticularly  keep 
our  hearts  are,  1.  The  time  of  our  prosperity  (Deut.  vi, 
10,  12).  2.  Under  afflictions  (lleb.  vii,  5,  6).  3.  The 

time  of  Sion’s  troubles  (Psa.  xlvi,  1,  4).  4.  In  the  time 
of  great  and  threatening  danger  (Isa.  xxvi,  20,  21).  5. 

Under  great  wants  (Phil,  iv,  6,  7).  6.  In  the  time  of 

duty  (Lev.  x,  3).  7.  Under  injuries  received  (Rom.  xii, 

17,  etc.).  8.  In  the  critical  hour  of  temptation  (Matt, 
xxvi,  41).  9.  Under  dark  and  doubting  seasons  (lleb. 

xii,  8;  Isa.  1,  10).  10.  In  time  of  opposition  and  suffer- 
ing (1  Pet.  iv,  12,  13).  11.  The  time  of  sickness  and 

death  (Jer.  xlix,  11).  The  means  to  be  made  use  of  to 
keep  our  hearts  are,  1.  Watchfulness  (Mark  xiii,  37).  2. 

Examination  (Prov.  iv,  26).  3.  Prayer  (Luke  xviii,  1). 

4.  Reading  God’s  Word  (John  v,  39).  5.  Dependence 

on  divine  grace  (Psa.  Ixxxvi,  11).  See  Flavel,  On 
Keeping  the  Heart;  Jamieson,  Sermons  on  the  Heart'' 
—Buck,  Theol.  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Hearth  is  the  representative  in  the  Eng.  Version  of 
several  lleb.  words.  Hit,  ach  (Sept,  iaxdpa,  Yulg.  aru- 
la),  a large  pot,  like  a brazier  (Gesenius,  Thes.  p.  69),  a 
portable  furnace  in  which  fire  was  kept  in  the  king’s 
winter  apartment  (Jer.  xxxvi,  22,  23).  At  the  present 
day  the  Orientals  sometimes  make  use  of  such  stoves  in- 
stead of  fireplaces  for  warming  rooms;  they  are  called 
in  Persian  and  Turkish  tunnur.  They  have  the  form  of 
a large  pitcher,  and  are  placed  in  a cavity  sunk  in  the 
middle  of  the  apartment.  When  the  fire  has  done 
burning,  a frame  like  a table  is  placed  over  the  pot,  and 
the  whole  is  then  covered  with  a carpet ; and  those  who 
wish  to  warm  themselves  sit  upon  the  floor,  and  thrust 
their  feet  and  legs,  and  even  the  lower  part  of  their 
bodies,  under  the  carpet.  *11*3,  kiyor',  a fire-pan  or 


small  basin  for  holding  fire  (Zech.  xii,  6 ; elsewhere  fot 
roasting  in,  1 Sam.  ii,  14;  or  generally  for  washing, 
“laver,”  Exod.  xxx,  18,  etc.).  *lj2112,  moked',  a burn- 
ing (as  rendered  in  Isa.  xxiii,  14),  hence  a fagot  as 
fuel  (“  hearth,”  Psa.  cii,  4) ; and  from  the  same  root 
“lip"1,  yakud'  (literally  kindled),  a burning  mass  upon  a 
hearth  (Isa.  xxx,  14).  The  lleb.  word  rnjp*,  uggoth'; 
Sept,  tytcpvtpiai,  refers  to  cakes  baked  in  the  ashes 
(Gen.  xviii,  6).  These  cakes  serve  in  the  East  at  the 
present  day  for  ordinary  food,  especially  upon  journeys 
and  in  haste.  By  the  hearth  we  are  to  understand, 
according  to  the  present  usage  in  the  East,  that  a lire  is 
made  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  and,  when  the  bread  is 
ready  for  baking,  a corner  of  the  hearth  is  swept,  the 
bread  is  laid  upon  it,  and  covered  with  ashes  and  em- 
bers; in  a quarter  of  an  hour  they  turn  it.  Sometimes 
they  use  convex  plates  of  iron  (Arabic  tajen,  whence  the 
Gr.  Tgyav ov),  which  are  most  common  in  Persia  and 
among  the  nomadic  tribes,  as  being  the  easiest  way  of 
baking  and  done  with  the  least  expense,  for  the  bread 
is  extremely  thin  and  soon  prepared.  See  Bread. 
This  iron  plate  is  either  laid  on,  or  supported  on  legs 
above  the  vessel  sunk  in  the  ground,  which  forms  the 
oven.  See  Ovex.  (Burckhardt,  Motes  on  Bed.  i,  58 ; 
P.  della  Valle,  Viaggi,  i,  436;  llarmer,  Obs.  i,  477,  and 
note;  Ramvolff,  Travels,  ap.  Ray,  ii,  163;  Shaw,  Trav- 
els, p.  231 ; Niebuhr,  Descr.  de  V Arable,  p.  45;  Sclilcus- 
ner,  Lex.  Vet.  Test.  s.  v.  T>)yavov ; Gesenius,  s.  v.  nr>p} 
p.  997).  See  Fire. 

He- Ass,  *1*112)1,  chamor'  (Gen.  xii,  16;  elsewhere 
simply  “ass”),  the  general  designation  of  the  donkey 
(Exod.  xiii,  13,  etc.)  for  carrying  burdens  (Exod.  xiii, 
26)  and  ploughing  (Isa.  xxx,  24),  being  regarded  as  a 
patient  (Gen.  xlix,  14)  and  contented  animal  for  rifling 
in  time  of  peace  (2  Sara,  xix,  27 ; Zech.  ix,  9) ; different 
from  the  proud  (Eccles.x,  9)  and  warlike  horse  (Isa.  xx, 
16).  As  a beast  of  burden,  it  was  eaten  only  in  times 
of  famine  (2  Kings  vi,  25).  See  Ass’s  Head. 

The  prohibition  of  the  use  of  horses  to  Israel  caused 
the  ass  to  be  held  in  higher  estimation  than  it  holds  in 
onr  times.  It  was,  at  least  clown  to  the  days  of  Solo- 
mon, the  principal  beast  of  burden.  But  we  must  not 
attribute  this  election  wholly  to  the  absence  or  scarcity 
of  the  horse,  for  in  Western  Asia  the  ass  is  still  largely 
used  for  the  saddle.  Though  inferior  in  dignity  to  the 
horse,  lie  is  still,  in  his  native  regions,  a very  superior 
animal  to  the  poor,  weather-beaten,  stunted,  half-starved 
beast  of  our  commons.  Chardin  and  others  describe  the 
Arabian  ass  as  a really  elegant  creature.  The  coat  is 
smooth  and  clean,  the  carriage  is  erect  and  proud ; the 
limbs  are  clean,  well-formed,  and  muscular,  and  are  well 
thrown  out  in  walking  or  galloping.  Asses  of  this  Arab 
breed  are  used  exclusively  for  the  saddle,  and  are  im- 
ported into  Syria  and  Persia,  where  they  are  highly 
valued,  especially  by  the  mollahs  or  lawyers,  the  sheiks 
or  religious  teachers,  and  elderly  persons  of  the  opulent 
classes.  They  are  fed  and  dressed  with  the  same  care 
as  horses,  the  head-gear  is  highly  ornamented,  and  the 
saddle  is  covered  with  a fine  carpet.  They  are  active, 
spirited,  and  yet  sufficiently  docile.  Other  breeds  are 
equally  useful  in  the  more  humble  labors  of  ploughing 
and  carrying  burdens.  White  asses,  distinguished  not 
only  by  their  color,  but  by  their  stature  and  symmetry, 
are  frequently  seen  in  Western  Asia,  and  are  always 
more  highly  esteemed  than  those  of  more  ordinary  hue. 
The  editor  of  the  Pictorial  Bible  says  that  these  “are 
usually  in  every  respect  the  finest  of  their  species,  and 
their  owners  certainly  take  more  pride  in  them  than  in 
any  other  of  their  asses.  They  sell  at  a much  higher 
price ; and  those  hackney  ass-men  who  make  a liveli- 
hood by  hiring  out  their  asses  to  persons  who  want  a 
ride,  always  expect  better  pay  for  the  white  ass  than 
for  any  of  the  others.”  After  describing  their  more 
highly  ornamented  trappings, he  observes,  “But,  above 
all,  their  white  hides  are  fantastically  streaked  and  spot- 


IIEAT 


118 


HEATH 


Modern  Egyptians  mounted  on  Asses. 


ted  with  the  red  stains  of  the  henna  plant,  a barbarous 
kind  of  ornament  which  the  Western  Asiatics  are  fond 
of  applying  to  their  own  beards,  and  to  the  manes  and 
tails  of  their  white  horses.”  See  Horse. 

The  constitution  of  the  ass  is  formed  for  a dry,  rugged 
region,  a rocky  wilderness.  Its  hoofs  are  long,  hollow 
beneath,  with  very  sharp  edges,  a peculiarity  which 
makes  it  sure-footed  in  ascending  and  descending  steep 
mountain  passes,  where  the  flat  hoof  of  the  horse  would 
be  insecure.  It  prefers  aromatic,  dry,  prickly  herbs  to 
the  most  succulent  and  tender  grass ; is  fond  of  rolling 
in  the  dry  dust;  suffers  but  little  from  thirst  or  heat ; 
drinks  seldom  and  little;  and  seems  to  have  no  sensible 
perspiration,  its  skin  being  hard,  tough,  and  insensitive. 
All  these  characters  suit  the  arid,  rocky  wildernesses  of 
l’ersia  and  Western  Asia,  the  native  country  of  this  val- 
uable animal. — Fairbairn.  See  Ass. 

Heat  (usually  Eh,  chum,  IT'SH,  chammah',  or  iY2n, 
ekepiak'),  besides  its  ordinary  meaning,  has  several  pe- 
culiar uses  in  Scripture.  In  Isa.  xlix,  10,  and  Rev.  vii, 
16,  there  is  a reference  to  the  burning  wind  of  the  des- 
ert, the  simoom  or  sarnie?,  described  by  travellers  as  ex- 
ceedingly pestilential  and  fatal.  It  is  highly  probable 
that  this  was  the  instrument  with  which  God  destroyed 
the  army  of  Sennacherib  (2  Kings  xix,  7,  35).  Its  ef- 
fects are  evidently  alliyled  to  in  Psa.  eiii,  15,  16,  and  in 
■Ter.  iv,  11.  Thcvenot  mentions  such  a wind,  which  in 
1658  suffocated  20,000  men  in  one  night,  and  another 
which  in  1655  suffocated  4000  persons.  It  sometimes 
burns  up  the  coni  when  near  its  maturity,  and  hence 
the  image  of  “corn  blasted  before  it  be  grown  up,”  used 
in  2 Kings  xix,  26.  Its  effect  is  not  only  to  render  the 
air  extremely  hot  and  scorching,  but  to  till  it  with  poi- 
sonous and  suffocating  vapors.  The  most  violent  storms 
that  Judiva  was  subject  to  came  from  the  deserts  of 
Arabia.  “Out  of  the  south  cometh  the  whirlwind,”  says 
Job  (xxxvii,  9);  “And  there  came  a great  wind  from 
the  wilderness"  (Job  i,  19).  Zeeli.  ix,  14:  “And  Jeho- 
vah shall  appear  over  them,  and  his  arrow  shall  go  forth 
as  the  lightning;  and  the  Lord  Jehovah  shall  sound  the 
trumpet,  andshall  march  in  the  whirlwinds  of  the  south." 
The  91st  Psalm,  which  speaks  of  divine  protection,  de- 
scribes the  plague  as  arrows,  and  in  those  winds  there 
are  observed  flashes  of  tire.  In  Numb,  xiii,  3,  the  place 
in  which  the  plague  was  inflicted  upon  the  Israelites  is 
for  that  reason  called  T alter  ah,  i.  e.  a burning.  A plague 
is  called  ’“2'n,  deber',  as  a desert  is  called  ■“I2Y2,  mid- 
bar',  because  those  winds  came  from  the.  desert,  and  are 
real  plagues.  This  hot  wind,  when  used  as  a symbol, 
signifies  the  fire  of  persecution,  or  else  some  prodigious 
wars  which  destroy  men.  For  wind  signifies  war;  and 


scorching  heat  signifies  persecution  and  destruction.  S® 
in  Matt,  xiii,  6,21,  and  Luke  viii,  6-13,  heat  is  tribula- 
tion, temptation,  or  persecution ; and  in  1 Pet.  iv,  12, 
burning  tends  to  temptation.  A gentle  heat  of  the  sun, 
according  to  the  Oriental  interpreters,  signifies  the  favor 
and  bounty  of  the  prince ; but  great  beat  denotes  pun- 
ishment. Hence  the  burning  of  the  heavens  is  a por- 
tent explained  in  Livy  (iii,  5)  of  slaughter.  Thus  in 
Psa.  exxi,  6 : “ The  sun  shall  not  smite  thee  by  day,  nor 
the  moon  by  night,”  is  in  the  next  place  explained  thus : 

« Jehovah  shall  preserve  thee  from  all  evil ; lie  shall  pre- 
serve thy  soul.”— Wcmvss.  See  Fire. 

Heath  (‘nr’l?,  arar',  Jer.  xvii,  6;  Sept,  dypiopvpi- 
/«/,  Yulg.  myricce ; or  aroer',  Jer.  xlviii,  G ; Sept. 

ovoq  dypeog,  peril,  by  reading  Til?,  a wild  ass;  Yulg. 
myricce')  has  been  variously  translated,  as  myrica,  tama- 
risk; tamarin,  which  is  an  Indian  tree,  the  tamarind; 
retama,  that  is,  the  broom;  and  also,  as  in  the  French 
and  English  versions,  bruiere,  heath,  which  is,  perhaps, 
the  most  incorrect  of  all,  though  Ilasselquist  mentions 
finding  heath  near  Jericho,  in  Syria.  Gesenius,  how- 
ever, renders  it  ruins  in  the  latter  of  the  above  pas- 
sages (as  in  Isa.  xvii,  2),  and  needy  in  the  former  (as  in 
Psa.  cii,  18).  As  far  as  the  context  is  concerned,  some 
of  the  plants  named,  as  the  retain  and  tamarisk,  would 
answer  very  well  [see  Tamarisk]  ; but  the  Arabic 
name,  arar,  is  applied  to  a totally  different  plant,  a spe- 
cies of  juniper,  as  has  been  clearly  shown  by  Celsius 
( JJierobot . ii,  195),  who  states  that  Arias  Montanus  is 
the  only  one  who  has  so  translated  the  Hebrew  in  the 
first  of  the  passages  in  question  (Jer.  xvii,  6):  “For  he 
shall  be  like  the  heath  in  the  desert,  and  shall  not  see 
when  good  cometh,  but  shall  inhabit  the  parched  places 
in  the  wilderness,  in  a salt  land,  and  not  inhabited.” 
Both  the  Heb.  words  are  from  the  root  ’“fl:?,  “ to  be 
naked."  in  allusion  to  the  bare  nature  of  the  rocks  on 
which  the  juniper  often  grows  (comp.  Psa.  cii,  17, 

“ the  prayer  of  the  destitute,”  or  ill-clad).  Sev- 
eral species  of  juniper  are  no  doubt  found  in  Syria  and 
Palestine.  See  Cedar;  Juniper.  Dr.  Robinson  met 
with  some  in  proceeding  from  Hebron  to  wady  Musa, 
near  the  romantic  pass  of  Nemcla  : “ On  the  rocks  above 
we  found  the  juniper-tree,  Arabic  ar’ar ; its  berries  have 
the  appearance  and  taste  of  the  common  juniper,  except 
that  there  is  more  of  the  aroma  of  the  pine.  These 
trees  were  ten  or  fifteen  feet  in  height,  and  hung  upon 
the  rocks  even  to  the  summits  of  the  cliffs  and  needles” 
(Jdbl.  Researches,  ii,  506).  In  proceeding  S.E.  he  states : 
“Large  trees  of  the  juniper  become  quite  common  in 
the  wadys  and  on  the  rocks.”  It  is  mentioned  in  the 
same  situations  by  other  travellers,  and  is  no  doubt  com- 
mon enough,  particularly  in  wild,  uncultivated,  and  of- 
ten inaccessible  situations,  and  is  thus  suitable  to  Jer. 
xlviii,  6 : “ Flee,  save  your  lives,  and  be  like  the  heath 
in  the  wilderness.” — Kitto.  This  appears  to  be  the  Ju- 
niperus  Sabina,  or  savin,  with  small  scale-like  leaves, 
which  are  pressed  close  to  the  stem,  and  which  is  de- 
scribed as  being  a gloomy-looking  busli  inhabiting  the 
most  sterile  soil  (see  English  Cyclop.  X.  Ilist.  iii,  31 1) ; a 
character  which  is  obviously  well  suited  to  the  naked  or 
destitute  tree  spoken  of  by  the  prophet.  Rosenmuller’s 
explanation  of  the  Hebrew  word,  which  is  also  adopted 
by  Maurer,  “qui  destitutus  versatur”  ( Schol . ad  Jer.  xvii, 
6),  is  very  unsatisfactory.  Not  to  mention  the  tameness 
of  the  comparison,  it  is  evidently  contradicted  by  the  an- 
tithesis in  ver.  8:  “Cursed  is  he  that  trusteth  in  man 
...  he  shall  be  like  the  juniper  that  grows  on  the  bare 
rocks  of  the  desert : Blessed  is  the  man  that  trusteth  in 
the  Lord  . . . he  shall  be  as  a tree  planted  by  the  wa- 
ters.” The  contrast  betwTecn  the  shrub  of  the  arid  des- 
ert and  the  tree  growing  by  the  waters  is  very  striking; 
but  Rosenmiiller’s  interpretation  appears  to  us  to  spoil 
the  whole.  Even  more  unsatisfactory  is  Michaclis 
( Supp . Lex.  Heb.  p.  1971),  who  thinks  “ Guinea-hens” 
(Xumida  meleagris)  are  intended ! Gesenius  ( Thes . p. 
1073-4)  understands  these  two  Heb.  terms  to  denote 


HEATH 


119 


HEATHEN 


“parietime,  aedificia  eversa”  (ruins) ; but  it  is  more  in 
accordance  with  the  scriptural  passages  to  suppose  that 
some  tree  is  intended,  which  explanation,  moreover,  has 
the  sanction  of  the  Sept,  and  Vulgate,  and  of  the  mod- 
ern use  of  a kindred  Arabic  word. — Smith.  Modern 
travellers  do  not  mention  the  species;  but  those  which 
have  been  named  as  growing  in  Palestine  are  the  Phoe- 
nician juniper,  the  common  savin,  and  the  brown-ber- 
ried juniper.  The  first  of  these  is  a tree  of  about  twen- 
tv  feet  high,  growing  with  its  branches  in  a pyramidal 
form.  Posen m Uller  states  that  “Forskal  found  it  fre- 
quently in  the  sandy  heaths  about  Suez.  The  caravans 
use  it  ibr  fuel.”  The  species  best  known  in  America  are 
the  common  red  cedar  (Jun.Virginiana)  and  the  Ber- 
muda cedar,  from  which  the  wood  of  lead-pencils  is  man- 
ufactured. They  all  have  long,  narrow,  prickly  leaves, 
and  bear  a soft,  piilpy  berry,  from  which  a carminative 
oil  is  extracted.  The  wood  is  light,  highly  odorous,  and 
very  durable.  See  Juniper. 

Heath,  Asa,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister,  was 
born  at  Hillsdale,  N.  Y.,  July  31, 1770.  llis  parents  were 
Congregationalists.  At  thirteen  he  was  converted,  un- 
der the  ministry  of  the  Kev.  F.  Garrettson  (q.  v.).  He 
began  to  preach  in  1797  on  Cambridge  Circuit,  N.  York, 
under  the  direction  of  the  Rev.  Sylvester  Hutchinson. 
In  1798  he  was  stationed  at  Pomfret,  Conn.,  with  Dan- 
iel Ostrander.  In  1799  he  was  sent  to  the  province  of 
Maine,  and  stationed  on  the  Kennebec  Circuit,  embra- 
cing all  the  territory  from  Waterville  to  the  Canada  line, 
making  more  than  two  hundred  miles  travel  to  reach 
all  the  appointments.  In  1800  Portland  was  his  field  of 
labor;  1801,  Ileadfield;  1802,  Falmouth;  1804-5,  Scar- 
boro’;  in  1806  lie  located  in  consequence  of  bodily  in- 
firmities. In  1818  he  re-entered  the  traveling  connec- 
tion, and  was  appointed  presiding  elder  of  Portland  dis- 
trict, which  position  he  occupied  for  three  years;  1821, 
Scarboro’;  1822,  Kennebec;  in  1823  he  again  located, 
and  removed  to  Monmouth,  Me. ; in  1827  he  re-entered 
the  travelling  ministry  again,  and  held  an  effective  re- 
lation to  the  Conference  fifteen  years.  In  1842  he  be- 
came superannuate,  and  this  relation  continued  until 
Sept.  1, 1860,  when  he  died  in  peace.  As  a preacher, 
he  was  sound  in  doctrine,  clear  in  exposition,  simple  vet 
forcible  in  illustration,  and  impressive  in  delivery. — Zi- 
on’s Herald , Oct.  5, 18G0. 

Heathcote,  Ralph,  D.D.,  an  English  divine,  was 
born  in  1721,  and  died  May  28, 1795.  He  was  educated 
at  Jesus  College,  Cambridge;  took  orders,  and  in  1748 
was  made  vicar  of  Barkby,  near  Leicester;  assistant 
preacher  of  Lincoln’s  Inn  in  1753;  succeeded  his  father 
as  vicar  of  Sileby  in  1765;  became  rector  of  Sawtry-all- 
Saints,  Huntingdonshire,  in  1766;  a prebend  in  the  col- 
legiate church  in  Southwell  in  1768;  and  in  1788  vicar- 
general  of  Southwell  Church.  Besides  works  on  other 
subjects,  he  wrote  Cursory  Animadversions  upon  the  Mid - 
dletonian  Controversy  in  general  (1752) : — Remarks  upon 
Dr.  Chapman's  Charge  (1752) : — Letter  to  Rev.  T.  Fother- 
yill  (1753)  : — Sketch  of  Lord  Bolinybroke's  Philosophy 
(1785, 8vo) : — The  Use  of  Reason  asserted  in  Matters  of 
Religion  (1755,  8vo;  and  a defence  of  the  same,  in  1756, 
8vo): — Discourse  on  the  Being  of  God,  against  Atheists, 
in  two  Sermons  (being  the  only  ones  of  his  twenty-four 
Boyle  sermons  which  he  published,  1763,  4to).  Dr. 
Heathcote  wrote  several  articles  for  the  first  edition  of 
the  General  Biographical  Dictionary,  and  assisted  Nich- 
ols in  editing  a new  edition  of  the  same,  published  in 
1784,  12  vols.  8vo. — Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  814; 
Rose,  New  Gen.  Biog.  Diet,  viii,  241 ; Gentleman's  Maga- 
zine, lxv,  Ixvi,  lxxi.  ( J.  W. M.) 

Heathen.  The  Hebrew  word  “>ia,  goy  (plur. 
goyim'),  together  with  its  Greek  equivalent  tQnog 
(tOvtj),  has  been  somewhat  arbitrarily  rendered  “na- 
tions,” “gentiles,”  and  “heathen”  in  the  A.  V.  It  will 
he  interesting  to  trace  the  manner  in  which  a term,  pri- 
marily and  essentially  general  in  its  signification,  ac- 
quired that  more  restricted  sense  which  was  afterwards 


attached  to  it.  Its  development  is  parallel  with  that 
of  the  Hebrew  people,  and  its  meaning  at  any  period 
may  be  taken  as  significant  of  their  relative  position 
with  regard  to  the  surrounding  nations. 

1.  While  as  yet  the  Jewish  nation  had  no  political 
existence,  goyim  denoted  generally  the  nations  of  the 
world,  especially  including  the  immediate  descendants 
of  Abraham  (Gen.  xviii,  18 ; compare  Gal.  iii,  16).  The 
latter,  as  they  grew  in  numbers  and  importance,  were 
distinguished*  in  a most  marked  manner  from  the  na- 
tions by  whom  they  were  surrounded,  and  were  pro- 
vided with  a code  of  laws  and  a religious  ritual  which 
made  the  distinction  still  more  peculiar.  They  were 
essentially  a separate  people  (Lev.  xx,  23) ; separate  in 
habits,  morals,  and  religion,  and  bound  to  maintain  their 
separate  character  by  denunciations  of  the  most  terrible 
judgments  (Lev.  xxvi,  14-38 ; Dent,  xxviii).  On  their 
march  through  the  desert  they  encountered  the  most 
obstinate  resistance  from  Amalck,  “chief  of  the  goyim" 
(Numb,  xxiv,  20),  in  whose  sight  the  deliverance  from 
Egypt  was  achieved  (Lev.  xxvi,  45).  During  the  con- 
quest of  Canaan,  and  the  subsequent  wars  of  extermina- 
tion which  the  Israelites  for  several  generations  carried 
on  against  their  enemies,  the  seven  nations  of  the  Ca- 
naanites,  Amorites,  Ilittites,  Hivites,  Jebusites,  Penz- 
zites,  and  Girgashitcs  (Exod.  xxxiv,  24),  together  with 
the  remnants  of  them  who  were  left  to  prove  Israel 
(Josh,  xxiii,  13 ; Judg.  iii,  1 ; Fsa.  1 xxviii,  55),  and  teach 
them  war  (Judg.  iii,  2),  received  the  especial  appella- 
tion of  goyim.  With  these  the  Israelites  were  forbidden 
to  associate  (Josh,  xxiii,  7) ; intermarriages  were  pro- 
hibited (Josh,  xxiii,  12 ; 1 Kings  xi,  2) ; and,  as  a warn- 
ing against  disobedience,  the  fate  of  the  nations  of  Ca- 
naan was  constantly  kept  before  their  eyes  (Lev.  xviii, 
24, 25;  Dent,  xviii, *12).  They  are  ever  associated  with 
the  worship  of  false  gods  and  the  foul  practices  of  idol- 
aters (Lev.  xviii,  xx),  and  these  constituted  their  chief 
distinctions,  as  goyim,  from  the  worshippers  of  the  one 
God,  the  people  of  Jehovah  (Numb,  xv,  41 ; Deut.  xxviii, 
10).  This  distinction  was  maintained  in  its  full  force 
during  the  early  times  of  the  monarchy  (2  Sam.vii,  23; 
1 Kings  xi,  4-8;  xiv,  24;  Psa.  evi,  35).  It  was  from 
among  the  goyim,  the  degraded  tribes  who  submitted  to 
their  arms,  that  the  Israelites  were  permitted  to  pur- 
chase their  boml-servants  (Lev.  xxv,  44,  45),  and  this 
special  enactment  seems  to  have  had  the  effect  of  giv- 
ing to  a national  tradition  the  force  and  sanction  of  a 
law  (comp.  Gen.  xxi,  15).  In  later  times  this  regulation 
was  strictly  adhered  to.  To  the  words  of  Eceles.  ii,  7, 
“I  bought  men-servants  and  maid-servants,”  the  Tar- 
gum  adds,  “ of  the  children  of  Ham.  and  the  rest  of  the 
foreign  nations.”  Not  only  were  the  Israelites  forbid- 
den to  intermarry  with  these  goyim,  but  the  latter  were 
virtually  excluded  from  the  possibility  of  becoming  nat- 
uralized. An  Ammonite  or  Moabite  was  shut  out  from 
the  congregation  of  Jehovah  even  to  the  tenth  genera- 
tion (Deut.  xxiii,  3),  while  an  Edomite  or  Egyptian  was 
admitted  in  the  third  (verses  7,  8).  The  necessity  ot 
maintaining  a separation  so  broadly  marked  is  ever  more 
and  more  manifest  as  we  follow  the  Israelites  through 
their  history,  and  observe  their  constantly  recurring 
tendency  to  idolatry.  Offence  and  punishment  followed 
each  other  with  all  the  regularity  of  cause  and  effect 
(Judg.  ii,  12;  iii,  6-8,  etc.). 

2.  But,  even  in  early  Jewish  times,  the  term  goyim 
received  by  anticipation  a significance  of  wider  rang© 
than  the  national  experience  (Lev.  xxvi,  33,  38:  Deu!.- 
xxx,  1),  and,  as  the  latter  was  gradually  developed  dur- 
ing the  prosperous  times  of  the  monarchy,  the  goyim 
were  the  surrounding  nations  generally,  with  whom  the 
Israelites  were  brought  into  contact  by  the  extension 
of  their  commerce,  and  whose  idolatrous  practices  they 
readily  adopted  (Ezek.  xxiii,  30;  Amos  v,  26).  Later 
still,  it  is  applied  to  the  Babylonians  who  took  Jerusa- 
lem (Neh.  v,  8 ; Psa.  lxxix,  i,  6,  10),  to  the  destroyers 
of  Moab  (Isa.  xvi,  8),  and  to  the  several  nations  among 
whom  the  Jews  were  scattered  during  the  Captivity 


120 


HEATHEN 


HEATHEN 

(Psa.  cvi,  47 ; Jer.  xlvi,  28 ; Lam.  i,  3,  etc.),  the  practice 
of  idolatry  still  being  tlicir  characteristic  distinction 
(Isa.  xxxvi,  IK;  Jer.  x,  2,  3 ; xiv,  22).  This  significa- 
tion it  retained  after  the  return  from  Babylon,  thong  i 
it  was  used  in  a more  limited  sense  as  denoting  the 
mixed  race  of  colonists  who  settled  in  Palestine  during 
the  Captivity  (Xeh.v,  17),  and  who  are  described  as 
fearing  Jehovah  while  serving  their  own  gods  (2  Kings 
xvii,  29-33;  Ezra  vi,  21).  ^ 

Tracing  the  synonymous  term  tQvrj  through  the 
anoervphal  writings,  've  find  that  it  is  applied  to  the 
nations  around  Palestine  (1  Mace,  i,  11),  including  the 
Syrians  and  Philistines  of  the  army  of  Gorgias  (1  Macc. 

iii.  41 , iv,  7,  11,  14),  as  well  as  the  people  of  Ptolemais, 
Tyre,  and  Sidon  (1  Macc.  v,  9,  10,  15).  They  were  im- 
age-worsliippcrs  (l  Macc.  iii,  48;  Wisd.  xv,  15),  whose 
customs  and  fashions  the  Jews  seem  still  to  have  had 
an  unconquerable  propensity  to  imitate,  but  on  whom 
they  were  bound  by  national  tradition  to  take  ven- 
geance (1  Macc.  ii,  G8 ; 1 Esdr.  viii,  85).  Following  the 
customs  of  the  goyim  at  this  period  denoted  the  neglect 
i>r  concealment  of  circumcision  (1  Macc.  i,  15),  disregard 
of  sacrifices,  profanation  of  the  Sabbath,  eating  of  swine’s 
tlcsli  and  meat  offered  to  idols  (2  Macc.  vi,  G-9,  18;  xv, 

1 , 2),  and  adoption  of  the  Greek  national  games  (2  Macc. 

iv.  12,  14).  In  all  points  Judaism  and  heathenism  are 
strongly  contrasted.  The  “barbarous  multitude”  in  2 
Macc.  ii,  21  are  opposed  to  those  who  played  the  man 
lor  Judaism,  and  the  distinction  now  becomes  an  eccle- 
siastical one  (comp.  Matt,  xviii,  17).  In  2 Esdr.  iii,  33, 
34,  the  “gentes”  are  defined  as  those  “qui  habitant  in 
saeculo”  (comp.  Matt,  vi,  32;  Luke  xii,  30). 

As  the  Greek  influence  became  more  extensively  felt 
in  Asia  Minor,  and  the  Greek  language  was  generally 
used,  Hellenism  and  heathenism  became  convertible 
terms,  and  a Greek  was  synonymous  with  a foreigner 
of  any  nation.  This  is  singularly  evident  in  the  Syriac 
of  2 Macc.  v,  9, 10, 13 ; comp.  John  vii,  35 ; 1 Cor.  x,  32 ; 
2 Macc.  xi,  2. 

In  the  N.  T.,  again,  we  find  various  shades  of  mean- 
ing attached  to  tOvrj.  In  its  narrowest  sense  it  is  op- 
posed to  “those  of  the  circumcision”  (Acts  x,  45;  comp. 
Esth.  xiv,  15,  where  dMGrpiof ^axtpiT/ujTOQ),  and  is 
contrasted  with  Israel,  the  people  of  Jehovah  (Luke  ii, 
32),  thus  representing  the  Hebrew  at  one  stage  of 
its  history.  But,  like  goyim,  it  also  denotes  the  people 
of  the  earth  generally  (Acts  xxii,  2G;  Gal.  iii,  14).  In 
Matt,  vi,  7,  tfcb'iico£  is  applied  to  an  idolater. 

But,  in  addition  to  its  significance  as  an  ethnograph- 
ical term,  goyim  had  a moral  sense  which  must  not  be 
overlooked.  In  Psa.  ix,  5, 15,  17  (comp.  Ezck.  vii,  21) 
the  word  stands  in  parallelism  with  rasha the 

wicked,  as  distinguished  by  his  moral  obliquity  (see 
llupfeld  on  Psa.  i,  1);  and  in  verse  17  the  people  thus 
designated  are  described  as  “forgetters  of  God,”  that 
know  not  Jehovah  (Jer.  x,  25).  Again,  in  Psa.  lix,  5, 
it  is  to  some  extent  commensurate  in  meaning  with 
“"N:  “iniquitous  transgressors;”  and  in  these  pas- 

sages, as  well  as  in  Psa.  x,  15,  it  has  a deeper  signifi- 
cance than  that  of  a merely  national  distinction,  al- 
though the  latter  idea  is  never  entirely  lost  sight  of. 

In  later  Jewish  literature  a technical  definition  of  the 
word  is  laid  down  which  is  certainly  not  of  universal 
application.  Elias  Levita  (quoted  by  Eiscnmcngcr, 
Enteleckles  Jmhenthum , i,  665)  explains  the  sing,  guy  as 
denoting  one  who  is  not  of  lsraclitish  birth.  This  can 
only  have  reference  to  its  after  signification;  in  the  O. 
T.  the  singular  is  never  used  of  an  individual,  but  is  a 
collective  term,  applied  equally  to  the  Israelites  (Josh, 
iii,  17)  as  to  the  nations  of  Ganaan  (Lev.  xx,  23),  and 
denotes  simply  a body  politic.  Another  distinction, 
equally  unsupported,  is  made  between  goyim,  and 
ummim,  the  former  being  defined  as  the  nations 
who  hail  served  Israel,  while  the  latter  were  those  who 
had  not  ( Jalbit  Cliaihnh,  fol.  20,  note  20 ; Eisenmcngcr, 
i,  6G7).  Abarbanel,  on  Joel  iii,  2,  applies  the  former  to 


both  Christians  and  Turks,  or  Ishmaelites,  while  in  Se- 
pher  Juchasin  (fol.  148,  col.  2)  the  Christians  alone  are 
distinguished  by  this  appellation.  Eisenmenger  gives 
some  curious  examples  of  the  disabilities  under  which  a 
yoy  labored.  One  who  kept  Sabbaths  was  judged  de- 
serving of  death  (ii,  206),  and  the  study  of  the  law  was 
prohibited  to  him  under  the  same  penalty,  but  on  the 
latter  point  the  doctors  are  at  issue  (ii,  209).— Smith,  s. 
v.  See  Gentile. 

3.  In  modern  use,  the  word  heathen  (probably  a cor- 
ruption of  WviKog,  ethnicus,  of  which  it  is  a translation ; 
or  derived  from  heath,  that  is,  people  who  live  in  the 
wilderness,  as  pagan  from  pagus,  a village)  is  applied 
to  all  nations  that  are  strangers  to  revealed  religion, 
that  is  to  say,  to  all  except  Christians,  Jews,  and  Mo- 
hammedans. It  is  nearly  synonymous  with  Gentiles  (q. 
v.)  and  Pagans  (q.  v.).  At  the  time  of  the  Crusades 
the  Moslems  were  also  called  heathen;  but  as  they  re- 
ceive the  doctrine  of  the  one  God  from  the  O.  T.,  they 
are  not  properly  so  called.  On  the  relation  of  the  hea- 
then to  Judaism,  see  above,  and  also  the  article  Gex- 
ttles.  See  also  the  same  article  (vol.  iii,  p.  789)  for 
their  relation  to  Christianity  at  its  origin.  We  add  the 
following  statements : 

“The  old  Oriental  forms  of  heathenism,  the  religion 
of  the  Chinese  (Confucius,  about  550  B.C.),  the  Brah- 
minism,  and  the  later  Buddhism  of  the  Hindoos  (per- 
haps 1000  B.C.),  the  religion  of  the  Persians  (Zoroaster, 
700  B.C.),  and  the  Egyptians  (‘the  religion  of  enig- 
ma’), have  only  a remote  and  indirect  concern  with  the 
introduction  of  Christianity.  But  they  form  to  some 
extent  the  historical  basis  of  the  Western  religions;  and 
the  Persian  dualism,  especially,  was  not  without  influ- 
ence on  the  earlier  sects  (the  Gnostic  and  the  Manichae- 
an)  of  the  Christian  Church.  The  flower  of  paganism 
appears  in  the  two  great  nations  of  classic  antiquity, 
Greece  and  Pome.  With  the  language,  morality,  liter- 
ature, and  religion  of  these  nations  the  apostles  came 
directly  into  contact,  and  through  the  whole  first  age 
the  Church  moves  on  the  basis  of  these  nationalities. 
These,  together  with  the  Jews,  were  the  chosen  nations 
of  the  ancient  world,  and  shared  the  earth  among  them. 
The  Jews  were  chosen  for  things  eternal,  to  keep  the 
sanctuary  of  the  true  religion.  The  Greeks  prepared 
the  elements  of  natural  culture,  of  science  and  art,  for 
the  use  of  the  Church.  The  Homans  developed  the  idea 
of  law,  and  organized  the  civilized  world  in  a universal 
empire,  ready  to  .serve  the  spiritual  universality  of  the 
Gospel.  Both  Greeks  and  Romans  were  unconscious 
servants  of  Jesus  Christ,  * the  unknown  God.’  These 
three  nations,  by  nature  at  bitter  enmity  among  them- 
selves, joined  hands  in  the  superscription  on  the  cross, 
where  the  holy  name  and  the  royal  title  of  the  Redeem- 
er stood  written,  by  the  command  of  the  heathen  Pilate, 

‘ in  Hebrew,  and  Greek,  and  Latin’  ” (Scliaff,  / history  of 
the  Christian  Church , i,  44). 

4.  As  to  the  religion  of  heathenism,  it  is  “ a wild 
growth  on  the  soil  of  fallen  human  nature,  a darkening 
of  the  original  consciousness  of  God,  a deification  of  the 
rational  and  irrational  creature,  and  a corresponding 
corruption  of  the  moral  sense,  giving  the  sanction  of  re- 
ligion to  natural  and  unnatural  vices.  Even  the  relig- 
ion of  Greece,  which,  as  an  artistic  product  of  the  imag- 
ination. has  been  justly  styled  the  religion  of  beauty,  is 
deformed  by  this  moral  distortion.  It  utterly  lacks  the 
true  conception  of  sin,  and  consequently  the  true  con- 
ception of  holiness.  It  regards  sin  not  as  a perverse- 
ness of  will  and  an  offence  against  the  gods,  but  as  a 
folly  of  the  understanding,  and  an  offence  against  men, 
often  even  proceeding  from  the  gods  themselves;  for 
‘ infatuation  is  a daughter  of  Jove.’  Then  these  gods 
themselves  arc  mere  men,  in  whom  Homer  and  the  pop- 
ular faith  saw  and  worshipped  the  weaknesses  and  vices 
of  the  Grecian  character,  as  well  as  its  virtues,  in  im- 
mensely magnified  forms.  They  have  bodies  and  senses, 
like  mortals,  only  in  colossal  proportions.  They  eat  and 
drink,  though  only  nectar  and  ambrosia.  They  are  lim« 


HEATHEN 


121 


HEATHEN 


ited,  like  men,  to  time  and  space.  Though  sometimes 
honored  with  the  attributes  of  omnipotence  and  omni- 
science, yet  they  are  subject  to  an  iron  fate,  fall  under 
delusion,  and  reproach  each  other  with  folly.  Their 
heavenly  happiness  is  disturbed  by  all  the  troubles  of 
earthly  life.  Jupiter  threatens  his  fellows  with  blows 
and  death,  and  makes  Olympus  tremble  when  he  shakes 
his  dark  locks  in  anger.  The  gentle  Venus  bleeds  from 
a spear-wound  on  her  finger.  Mars  is  felled  with  a 
stone  by  Diomedes.  Neptune  and  Apollo  have  to  serve 
for  hire,  and  are  cheated.  The  gods  are  involved  by 
their  marriages  in  perpetual  jealousies  and  quarrels. 
Though  called  holy  and  just,  they  are  full  of  envy  and 
wrath,  hatred  and  lust,  and  provoke  each  other  to  lying 
and  cruelty,  perjury  and  adultery.  Notwithstanding 
this  essential  apostasy  from  truth  and  holiness,  heathen- 
ism was  religion,  a groping  after  ‘the  unknown  God.’ 
By  its  superstition  it  betrayed  the  need  of  faith.  Its 
polytheism  rested  on  a dim  monotheistic  background ; 
it  subjected  all  the  gods  to  Jupiter,  and  Jupiter  himself 
to  a mysterious  fate.  It  had  at  bottom  the  leeling  of 
dependence  on  higher  powers,  and  reverence  for  divine 
things.  It  preserved  the  memory  of  a golden  age  and 
of  a fall.  It  had  the  voice  of  conscience  and  a sense, 
obscure  though  it  was,  of  guilt.  It  felt  the  need  of  rec- 
onciliation with  deity,  and  sought  that  reconciliation  by 
prayer,  penance,  and  sacrifice.  Many  of  its  religious 
traditions  and  usages  were  faint  echoes  of  the  primal  re- 
ligion ; and  its  mythological  dreams  of  the  mingling  of 
the  gods  with  men,  of  demigods,  of  Prometheus  deliv- 
ered by  Ilercides  from  his  helpless  sufferings,  were  un- 
conscious prophecies  and  fleshy  anticipations  of  Chris- 
tian truths.  This  alone  explains  the  great  readiness 
with  which  heathens  embraced  the  Gospel,  to  the  shame 
of  the  Jews.  These  elements  of  truth,  morality,  and 
piety  in  heathenism  may  be  ascribed  to  three  sources. 
In  the  first  place,  man,  even  in  his  fallen  state,  retains 
some  traces  of  the  divine  image,  a consciousness  of  God, 
however  weak,  conscience,  and  a deep  longing  for  union 
with  the  Godhead,  for  truth  and  for  righteousness.  In 
this  view  we  may,  with  Tertullian,  call  the  beautiful  and 
true  sentences  of  the  classics,  of  a Socrates,  a Plato,  an 
Aristotle,  of  Pindar,  Sophocles,  Plutarch,  Cicero,  Virgil, 
Seneca,  ‘ the  testimonies  of  a soul  constitutionally  Chris- 
tian,’ of  a nature  predestined  to  Christianity.  Second- 
ly, some  account  must  be  made  of  traditions  and  recol- 
lections, however  faint,  coming  down  from  the  general 
primal  revelations  to  Adam  and  Noah.  But  the  third 
and  most  important  source  of  the  heathen  anticipations 
of  truth  is  the  all-ruling  providence  of  God,  who  has 
never  left  himself  without  a witness.  Particularly  must 
we  consider  the  influence  of  the  divine  Logos  before  his 
incarnation,  the  tutor  of  mankind,  the  original  light  of 
reason,  shining  in  the  darkness  and  lighting  every  man, 
the  sower  scattering  in  the  soil  of  heathendom  the  seeds 
of  truth,  beauty,  and  virtue”  (Sclialf,  History  of  the  Chris- 
tian Church,  § 12). 

The  question  of  the  salvation  of  the  heathen  has  been 
a subject  of  much  discussion.  “The  great  body  of 
the  Jews,  from  the  earliest  ages,  denied  salvation  to  the 
heathen  on  the  principle  extra  ecchsiam  non  dari  salu - 
tent.  But  this  is  entirely  opposed  both  to  the  Old  Tes- 
tament and  to  the  spirit  of  Christianity.  Even  Mo- 
hammed did  not  go  to  this  degree  of  exclusiveness. 
Nor  did  the  more  ancient  Grecian  fathers  deny  salvation 
to  the  heathen,  although  they  philosophized  about  it 
after  their  manner.  E.  g.  Justin  Martyr  and  Clement 
of  Alexandria  held  that  the  Aoyog  exerted  an  agency 
upon  the  heathen  by  means  of  reason,  and  that  the 
heathen  philosophers  were  called,  justified,  and  saved 
by  philosophy.  But  afterwards,  especially  after  the  3d 
century,  when  the  false  Jewish  notions  respecting  the 
Church  were  introduced  into  the  West,  and  the  maxim 
was  adopted,  Extra  ecclesiam  non  dari  salutem  (which 
was  the  case  after  the  age  of  Augustine),  they  then  be- 
gan to  deny  the  salvation  of  the  heathen,  though  there 
were  always  some  who  judged  more  favorably.  Thus 


Zwingle,  Curio,  and  others  believed  that  God  would 
pardon  the  heathen  on  account  of  Christ,  although  in 
this  life  they  had  no  knowledge  of  his  merits.  See  the 
historical  account  in  Beykert’s  Diss.  l)e  salute  gentium 
(Strasburg,  1777),  and  a short  statement  of  the  opinions 
of  others  in  Morus,  p.  128,  129,  where  he  justly  recom- 
mends to  our  imitation  the  exemplary  modesty  of  the 
apostles  when  speaking  on  this  point.  The  whole  sub- 
ject was  investigated  anew  on  occasion  of  the  violent 
attack  which  llofstede,  a preacher  in  Holland,  made 
upon  the  Belisaire  of  Marmontel.  This  gave  rise  to 
Eberliard’s  Apologie  de  Socrates.  Compare  also  Tdllner, 
Beweis  dass  Gott  die  Menschen  auch  durch  seine  OJfen- 
barung  in  der  Katurzur  Seligkeit  fuhre"  (Knapp,  Chris- 
tian Theology,  § 121).  “ The  truth  seems  to  be  this, 

that  none  of  the  heathens  will  be  condemned  for  not 
believing  the  Gospel,  but  they  are  liable  to  condemna- 
tion for  the  breach  of  God’s  natural  law ; nevertheless, 
if  there  be  any  of  them  in  whom  there  is  a prevailing 
love  to  the  Divine  Being,  there  seems  reason  to  believe 
that,  for  the  sake  of  Christ,  though  to  them  unknown, 
they  may  be  accepted  by  God;  and  so  much  the  rather, 
as  the  ancient  Jews,  and  even  the  apostles,  during  the 
time  of  our  Saviour’s  abode  on  earth,  seem  to  have  had 
but  little  notion  of  those  doctrines  which  those  who 
deny  the  salvability  of  the  heathen  are  most  apt  to  im- 
agine to  be  fundamental.  Comp.  Ilom.  ii,  10,  26;  Acts 

x,  34,  35;  Matt,  viii,  11,  12;  1 John  ii,  2”  (Doddridge, 
Lectures  on  Divinity,  lect.  172).  The  question  is  very 
ably  treated  in  an  article  on  “ The  true  Theory  of  Mis- 
sions” in  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra,  July,  1858.  The  writer 
states  that  the  extreme  evangelical  theory,  which  as- 
sumes the  certain  damnation  of  all  who  have  not  learned 
the  name  and  faith  of  Christ,  is  “ the  accepted  theory 
of  the  Romish  Church,  and  of  a part  of  the  Protestant 
Church,  perhaps  of  the  majority  of  the  latter.”  He 
adds  in  a note  the  following : “ The  Presbyterian  Con- 
fession of  Faith  (chap,  x,  § 4)  uses  language  of  remark- 
able boldness  on  this  point,  saying,  ‘Others  not  elect- 
ed, although  they  may  be  called  by  the  ministry  of 
the  Word,  and  may  have  some  common  operations  of 
the  Spirit,  yet  they  never  truly  come  to  Christ,  and 
therefore  cannot  be  saved;  much  less  can  men  not 
professing  the  Christian  religion  be  saved  in  any  other 
way  whatever,  be  they  never  so  diligent  to  frame  their 
lives  according  to  the  light  of  nature  and  the  law  of  that 
religion  they  do  profess;  and  to  assert  and  maintain 
that  they  may  is  very  pernicious  and  to  be  detested.’ 
This  is  sufficiently  positive,  especially  as  it  contradicts 
both  our  Saviour  and  the  apostle  Paul.  It  represents 
heathen  who  live  according  to  their  light  as  ‘ much  less' 
able  to  be  saved  than  men  who  hear  the  Gospel  and  re- 
ject it,  thus  directly  contradicting  our  Saviour,  who  de- 
clared that  those  who  rejected  his  words  would  receive 
a heavier  condemnation  than  even  the  depraved,  unre- 
pentant inhabitants  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  or  Tyre 
and  Sidon  (Matt,  xi,  20-24).  The  ‘ Confession  of  Faith’ 
declares  the  salvation  of  conscientious  heathen  to  be 
‘ much  less’  possible  than  that  of  unbelieving  hearers  of 
the  Gospel;  while  Christ  asserts  that  even  the  most 
flagrant  sinners  of  the  heathen  shall  find  it  ‘more  toler- 
able’ in  the  day  of  judgment  than  such  unbelievers. 
Equally  at  variance  with  the  ‘ Confession  of  Faith’  is 
the  declaration  of  Paul  in  Rom.  ii,  14,  2G,  27,  in  which 
he  shows  how  those  ‘ having  not  the  law  may  be  a law 
unto  themselves,’  and  how  their  ‘ nncircumcision  shall 
be  counted  for  circumcision.”  . . . “ The  facts  of  human 
history  and  the  declarations  of  the  Bible  alike  declare 
that  mercy  is  a prominent  attribute  of  the  divine  char- 
acter, and  that  this  world  is  for  some  reason,  known  or 
unknown,  under  its  care.  We  cannot,  therefore,  resist 
the  conviction — it  is  an  affirmation  of  the  moral  sense 
of  all  men— that,  guilty  though  the  human  race  may 

be,  and  deserving  of  destruction,  yet  every  man  lives 
under  a dispensation  of  mercy,  and  has  an  opportunity 
for  salvation.  To  assert  gravely,  then,  that  the  hea- 
then who  have  never  heard  of  Christ  are  shut  out  from 


122 


HEAVEN 


HEATHEN 


all  possible  hope  of  pardon,  and  are  not  in  a solvable  po- 
sition in  their  present  circumstances,  is  to  offend  the 
moral  sense  of  the  thoughtful  men  as  well  as  that  of  the 
common  multitude.  It  is  worse  than  denying  that  an 
atonement  has  been  made  for  all  mankind,  and  restrict- 
ing it  to  the  elect  alone;  for  that  doctrine,  however  theo- 
retically untrue,  is  saved  from  much  of  its  practical  evil 
by  our  inabilitv  to  point  out  the  elect  in  advance,  so 
that  our  hopes  are  not  cut  off  for  any  particular  man. 
lint  this  theory  points  to  actual  masses  of  men,  to  the 
entire  popidation  of  whole  countries,  and  dooms  them 
to  a necessary  perdition  with  no  present  hope  of  pardon ; 
and  it  extends  this  judgment  backwards  to  generations 
in'  the  past  who  are  represented  as  having  had  no  share 
in  that  mercy  which  we  have  such  reason  to  believe  to 
be  universal  in  its  offers.  Such  a theory  practically 
denies  the  divine  grace  by  suspending  its  exercise,  so 
far  as  the  heathen  (the  majority  of  the  human  race)  are 
concerned,  upon  the  action  of  those  already  enlightened. 
It  declares  that  there  is  no  possible  mercy  for  the  hea- 
then unless  Christians  choose  to  carry  the  Gospel  to 
them.  Does  it  seem  rational,  or  in  harmony  with  the 
universality  and  freedom  of  God’s  grace,  that  the  only 
possibility  of  salvation  for  the  mass  of  mankind  should 
be  suspended,  not  on  anything  within  their  control,  but 
on  the  conduct  of  men  on  the  op]x>site  side  of  the  globe? 
By  such  representations  the  minds  of  men  arc  shocked, 
and  a reaction  takes  place,  which  is  unfavorable  not  only 
to  the  cause  of  missions,  but  to  evangelical  religion  as 
well.  They  are  led  to  think  of  evangelical  religion  as 
a severe,  gloomy,  remorseless  system,  which  represents 
God  as  without  mercy,  or  which  confines  that  mercy 
within  an  exceedingly  narrow  compass.  By  describing 
the  salvation  of  pagans  as  absolutely  impossible,  an  in- 
fluence is  exerted  in  favor  of  universal  ism  and  infideli- 
ty.” The  writer  further  asserts  that  no  passage  in  the 
Bible  asserts  this  theory,  nor  does  any  doctrine  of  the 
Bible  imply  it.  John  Wesley’s  views  on  this  subject 
are  given  in  his  sermon  on  Living  without  God,  from 
which  we  extract  the  following:  “I  have  no  authority 
from  the  Word  of  God  to  ‘judge  those  that  are  without,’ 
nor  do  I conceive  that  any  man  has  a right  to  senter.ee 
all  the  heathen  and  Mohammedan  world  to  damnation” 
( 1 1 rorks,  X.  Y.  ed.  ii,  485).  Again,  the  Minutes  of  Aug. 
8,  1770,  declare  that  ‘‘lie  that  feareth  God  and  worketh 
righteousness,  according  to  the  light  he  has,  is  accepted 
of  God.”  For  this  Wesley  was  attacked  by  Shirley  and 
others,  and  defended  by  Fletcher,  in  his  First  Check  to 
A utinomianism  (New  York  edit.),  i,  4 1 . See,  besides  the 
works  above  cited,  Watson,  Theolog.  Institutes,  ii,  445 ; 
Whatelv,  Future  State,  p.  207 ; Constant,  Ik-  la  Religion 
(Bruxelles,  1824) ; Kougemoiit,  Le  People  Primitif  (fux- 
is,  1855-57, 3 vols.  8vo) ; Pressense,  Hist,  ties  Trots  Pre- 
miers ,S 'Cedes  de  Teglise,  vol,  i ; translated  under  the  title 
The  Religions  before  Christ  (Edinb.  1802,  8yo) ; Sepp, 
I)as  I/eiifenthum  (Itegensb.  1853,3  vols.);  Maurice,  7?e%- 
ions  of  the  World  (Boston,  1854,  l8mo);  Trench,  Hnlsean 
Lectures  for  1846  (Philadcl.  1850, 12mo);  Wuttke, Gesch. 
des  Ihvlenihums,  etc.  ( Bresl.  1853, 8vo) ; I lardwick,  Christ 
and  other  Masters  (1855,  2 vols.  8vo);  Schaff,  A postal. 
Church.  ii.130  sq.;  Scholten,  Gesch.  d.  Religion  u.  Philoso- 
phic (hlbcrf.  1808, 8vo);  Ptleiderer,  Hie  Religion,  ihr  1 1 V- 
sen  und  ih re  (icsc/uchte  (Loipsic,  1800,2  vols.  8vo);  Dbl- 
lingor,  The  Gentile  and  the  Jew  in  the  Courts  of  the  Tem- 
ple of  Christ,  trails,  by  Darnell  ( Bond.  1802, 2 vols.  8vo); 
Ar.  British  Review,  December,  1807,  art.  i ; Baring-Gould, 
Origin  and  Development  of  llvlirjious  Belief  (Bond.  1809- 
70, 2 vols.  8vo). 

Heathenism.  See  Paganism. 

Heaven.  There  is,  says  1 )aubuz,  a threefold  world, 
and  therefore  a threefold  heaven— the  invisible,  the  vis- 
ible, and  the  political  among  men,  which  last  may  be 
e-.thcr  civil  or  ecclesiastical.  We  shall  consider  these  in 
the  inverse  order. 

A.  Terrestrially  and  Figuratively  reyarded. — Wherever 
the  scene  of  a prophetic  vision  is  laid,  heaven  signifies 
symbolically  the  ruling  power  or  government ; that  is, 


tl  e v.hole  assembly  of  the  ruling  powers,  which,  in  re- 
spect to  the  subjects  on  earth,  are  a political  heaven,  be- 
ing over  and  ruling  the  subjects,  as  the  natural  heaven 
stands  over  and  rules  the  earth.  Tims,  according  to  the 
subject,  is  the  term  to  be  limited;  and  therefore  Artem- 
idorus,  writing  in  the  times  of  the  Roman  emperors, 
makes  Italy  to  be  the  heaven;  “As  heaven,”  says  lie, 
“is  the  abode  of  gods,  so  is  Italy  of  kings.”  The  Chi- 
nese call  tlieir  monarch  Tieucu,  the  son  of  heaven,  mean- 
ing thereby  the  most  powerful  monarch.  And  thus,  in 
Matt.xxiv,30,  heaven  is  synonymous  to  powers  and  glo- 
ry;  and  when  Jesus  says,  “The  powers  of  the  heaven 
shall  be  shaken,”  it  is  easy  to  conceive  that  be  meant 
that  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  should  be  overthrown 
to  submit  to  bis  kingdom.  Any  government  is  a world ; 
and  therefore,  in  Isa.  Ii,  15,  IG,  heaven  and  earth  signify 
apolitical  universe , a kingdom  or  polity.  In  Isa. lxv,  17, 
a new  heaven  and  a new  earth  signify  a new  government, 
new  kingdom,  new  people. — Wemyss,  s.  v.  See  Heav- 
en and  Earth. 

B.  Physically  treated. — I.  Defnitions  and  Distinctions. 
— The  ancient  Hebrews,  for  want  of  a single  term  like 
the  Koerpog  and  the  mundus  of  the  Greeks  and  the  Bat- 
ins, used  the  phrase  heaven  and  earth  (as  in  Gen.  i,  I ; 
Jer.  xxiii,  24  ; and  Acts  xvii,  24,  where  “II.  and  ET— 
“ the  world  and  all  things  therein”)  to  indicate  the  uni- 
verse, or  (as  Barrow,  Sermons  on  the  Creed,  B rorks  [Ox- 
ford ed.],  iv,  556,  expresses  it)  “ those  two  regions,  supe- 
rior and  inferior,  into  which  the  whole  system  of  things 
is  divided,  together  with  all  the  beings  that  do  reside 
in  them,  or  do  belong  unto  them,  or  are  comprehended 
by  them”  (compare  Pearson,  On  the  Creed,  who,  on  art.  i 
[ “ Maker  of  H.  and  E.”],  adduces  the  Rabbinical  names 
of  a triple  division  of  the  universe,  making  the  sea,  E^? 
distinct  from  the  r)  otKovphn].  Compare  also  the 

Nicene  Creed,  where  another  division  occurs  of  the  uni- 
verse into  “things  visible  and  invisible ”).  Deducting 
from  this  aggregate  the  idea  expressed  by  “earth”  [see 
Earth  ; Geography],  we  get  a residue  of  signification 
which  exactly  embraces  “ heaven.”  Barrow  (1.  c.)  well 
defines  it  as  “all  the  superior  region  encompassing  the 
globe  of  the  earth,  and  from  it  on  all  sides  extended  to 
a distance  inconceivably  vast  and  spacious,  with  all  its 
parts,  and  furniture,  and  inhabitants — not  only  such 
things  in  it  as  are  visible  and  material,  hut  also  those 
which  are  immaterial  and  invisible  (Col.  i,  16).” 

1.  Wetstein  (in  a learned  note  on  2 Cor.  xii,  2)  and 
Eisenmenger  ( Entdecktes  Judenthum,  i,  4C0)  state  the 
Rabbinical  opinion  as  asserting  seven  heavens.  For  the 
substance  of  Wctstein’s  note,  see  Stanley,  Corinthians, 
1.  c.  This  number  arises  confessedly  from  the  mystic 
value  of  the  numeral  seven;  “omnis  septenarius  dileetus 
est  in  sa?culum— in  superis.”  According  to  Rabbi  Ahia, 
there  were  six  antechambers,  as  it  ivcrc,  or  steps  to  the 
seventh  heaven,  which  was  the  “ raptiov  in  quo  Rex 
habitat” — the  very  presence-chamber  of  the  divine  King 
himself.  Compare  Origen,  Contra  Celsum,  vi,  283,  and 
Clemens  Alex.  Stromata,  iv,  636 ; v,  692.  In  the  last  of 
these  passages  the  prophet  Zephaniah  is  mentioned,  af- 
ter some  apocryphal  tradition,  to  have  been  caught  up 
into  “t\\ofj)h  heaven,  the  dwelling-place  of  the  angels, 
in  a glory  sevenfold  greater  tha;i  the  brightness  of  the 
sun.”  In  the  Rabbinical  point  of  view, the  superb  throne 
of  king  Solomon,  with  the  six  steps  leading  up  to  it,  was 
a symbol  of  the  highest  heaven  with  the  throne  of  the 
Eternal,  above  the  six  inferior  heavens  (1  Kings  x,  18- 
20).  These  gradations  of  the  celestial  regions  are  prob- 
ably meant  in  Amos  ix,  6,  where,  however,  the  entire 
creation  is  beautifully  described  by  “ the  stories  [or  steps] 
of  the  heaven,”  for  the  empyreal  heaven ; “ the  troop  [or 
globular  aggregate,  the  terra  frma ; see  A.  Lapide,  ad 
Inc.]  of  the  earth,”  and  “the  waters  of  the  sea”  [includ- 
ing the  atmosphere, •whence  the  waters  are  “poured  out 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth”].  As  for  the  threefold  di- 
vision of  the  celestial  regions  mentioned  in  the  text, 
Mover  thinks  it  to  be  a fiction  of  the  learned  Grotius, 
on  the  ground  of  the  Rabbinical  seven  heavens.  But 


HEAVEN 


123 


HEAVEN 


this  censure  is  premature ; for  (1)  it  is  very  doubtful 
whether  this  hebdomadal  division  is  as  old  as  Paul’s 
time;  (2)  it  is  certain  that  the  Rabbinical  doctors  are 
not  unanimous  about  the  number  seven.  Rabbi  Judah 
(Chugiga,  fob  xii,  2,  and  A both  Nathan , 37)  says  there 
are  “ two  heavens,”  after  Deut.  x,  14.  This  agrees  with 
Grotius’s  statement,  if  we  combine  bis  nubiferum  (3.*‘1p'1) 
and  astriferum  (B^E'l})  into  one  region  of  physical  heav- 
ens (as  indeed  Moses  does  himself  in  Gen.  i,  14, 15,  17, 
20),  and  reserve  his  angeliferum  for  the  E*  ElliH  nEE', 
“the  heaven  of  heavens,”  the  supernal  region  of  spirit- 
ual beings,  Milton’s  “ Empyrean”  (P.  L.  vii,  sub  fin.').  Sec 
bishop  Pearson’s  note,  On  the  Creed  (ed.  Chevallier),  p. 
91.  The  learned  note  of  De  Wette  on  2 Cor.  xii,  2 is 
also  worth  consulting.  (3)  The  Targnm  on  2 Chron. 

vi,  18  (as  quoted  by  Dr.  Gill,  Comment.  2 Corinth.  1.  c.), 

expressly  mentions  the  triple  distinction  of  supreme , mid- 
dle, and  lower  heavens.  Indeed,  there  is  an  accumula- 
tion of  the  threefold  classification.  Thus,  in  Tseror 
llammor,  fob  i,  4,  and  iii,  2, 3,  and  Ixxxii,  2,  three  worlds 
are  mentioned.  The  doctors  of  the  Cabbala  also  hold 
the  opinion  of  three  worlds,  Zohar,  Numb,  fob  Ixvi,  3. 
And  of  the  highest  world  there  is  further  a tripartite 
division,  of  angels,  E^ZXbEfl  sVl" ; of  souls,  HVl'S?  ; 
and  of  spirits,  nbiu.  See  Buxtorfs  Lex,  Rab- 

bin. cob  1(520,  who  refers  to  D.  Kimchi  on  Psa.  xix,  9. 
Paul,  besides  the  well-known  2 Cor.  xii,  2,  refers  again, 
only  less  pointedly,  to  a plurality  of  heavens,  as  in  Eph. 
iv,  10.  See  Olshausen  (ed.  Clark)  on  the  former  passage. 

2.  Accordingly,  Barrow  (p.  558,  with  whom  compare 
Grotius  and  Dmsius  on  2 Cor.  xii,  2)  ascribes  to  the  Jews 
the  notion  that  there  are  three  heavens:  Caelum  nubife- 
rum, or  the  firmament;  Caelum  astriferum,  the  starry 
heavens ; Caelum  angeliferum,  or  “ the  heaven  of  heav- 
ens,” where  the  angels  reside,  “ the  third  heaven”  of 
Paul.  This  same  notion  prevails  in  the  fathers.  Thus 
St.  Gregory  of  Nyssa  ( Ilexaem . i,  42)  describes  the  first 
of  these  heavens  as  the  limited  space  of  the  denser  air 
(rbv  opov  row  7raxvptpt<jTspov  depog),  within  which 
range  the  clouds,  the  winds,  and  the  birds;  the  second  is 
the  region  in  which  wander  the  planets  and  the  star's  (in 
i<>  5s  TrXavijrai  ru>v  darepojv  5ia7ropeuovrai),hcnce  apt- 
ly called  by  Hesvehius  Karparpiapivov  tottov,  locum 
stelliferum ; while  the  third  is  the  very  summit  of  the  vis- 
ible creation  (to  ovv  dtcporarav  row  alaSifTov  Koapov), 
Funl's  third  heaven,  higher  than  the  aerial  and  stellar 
world,  cognizable  [not  by  the  eye,  but]  by  the  mind  alone 
(iv  oraaipip  icai  voqry  Quasi  yevopevog),  which  Dam- 
ascene calls  the  heaven  of  heavens,  the  prime  heaven  be- 
yond all  others  ( oupavbi ; row  o iipavov,  6 wpioTog  ovpa- 
vog,  Orthod.  Fid.  lib.  ii,  c.  vi,  p.  83) ; or,  according  to  St. 
Basil  (In  Jesuiam,  visione  ii,  tom.  i,  813),  the  throne  of 
God  (Spovoq  0£oii),  and  to  Justin  Martyr  (Quccst.  et 
Fesp.  ad  Grcecos,  ad  ult.  Qucest.  p.  236),  the  house  and 
throne  of  God  (oIkqq  Kai  Spovog  row  0£ow). 

II.  Scripture  Passages  arranged  according  to  these  Dis- 
tinctions.— This  latter  division  of  the  celestial  regions  is 
very  convenient  and  quite  Biblical.  (1.)  Under  the  first 
head,  ccelum  nubiferum,  the  following  phrases  naturally 
fall—  (a)  “Fowl,"  or  “fowls  of  the  heaven,  of  the  air,” 
see  Gen.  ii,  19;  vii,  3,  23;  ix,  2;  Deut.  iv,  17;  xxviii, 
26 ; 1 Kings  xxi,  24 ; Job  xii,  7 ; xxviii,  21 ; xxxv,  1 1 ; 
Psa.  viii,  8;  lxxix,  2;  civ,  12;  Jer,  vii,  33  et  passim; 
Ezek.  xxix,  5 et  passim  ; Dan.  ii,  38 ; IIos.  ii,  18 ; iv,  3 ; 

vii,  12;  Zeph.  i,  3;  Mark  iv,  3 (ret  ttituvci  row  o vpa- 
l'ow);  Luke  viii,  5;  ix,  58;  xiii,  19;  Acts  x,  12;  xi,  6 — 
in  all  which  passages  the  same  original  words  in  the 
Hebrew,  Chaldee,  and  Greek  Scriptures  (E'l'E'J,  'pE'j, 
o'upavoi)  are  with  equal  propriety  rendered  indifferently 
“aid'  and “ heaven — similarly  we  read  of  “ the  path  of 
the  eagle  in  the  air"  (Prov.  xxx,  19) ; of  “ the  eagles  of 
heaven ” (Lam.  iv,  19) ; of  “ the  stork  of  the  heaven"  (Jer. 

viii,  7)  ; and  of  “ birds  of  heaven"  in  general  (Eccl.  x,  20 ; 
Jer.  iv,  25).  In  addition  to  these  zoological  terms,  we 
have  meteorological  facts  included  under  the  same  orig- 


inal words;  e.  g.  (b)  “ The  dew  of  heaven"  (Gen.  xxvii. 
28,  39 ; Deut.  xxxiii,  28 ; Dan.  iv,  15  et  passim ; Hag.  i, 
10;  Zech.  viii,  12) : (c)  “ The  clouds  of  heaven"  (1  Kings 
xviii,  45;  Psa.  cxlvii,  8;  Dan.  vii,  13;  Matt,  xxiv,  30 ; 
xxvi,  64;  Mark  xiv,  62)  : (d)  The  frost  of  heaven  (Job 
xxxviii,  29) : (e)  The  winds  of  heaven  (1  Kings  xviii, 
55;  Psa.  lxx viii,  26;  Dan.  viii,  8;  xi,  4;  Zech.  ii,6;  vi, 
5 [see  margin] ; Matt,  xxiv,  31 ; Mark  xiii,  27) : (/) 
The  rain  of  heaven  (Gen.  viii,  2;  Dent,  xi,  11;  xxviii, 
12;  Jer.  xiv,  22;  Acts  xiv,  17  [o upavoSrev  wtrou^]  ; Jas. 
v,  18;  Rev.  xviii,  6):  (g)  Lightning,  with  thunder  (Job 
xxxvii,  3,  4 ; Luke  xvii,  24).  (II.)  Cadum  astriferum. 

The  vast  spaces  of  which  astronomy  takes  cognizance 
are  frequently  referred  to:  e.  g.  (a)  in  the  phrase  “host 
of  heaven,"  in  Deut.  xvii,  3;  Jer.  viii,  2:  Matt,  xxiv,  29 
\_5vvdptig  twv  o upavwv] ; a sense  which  is  obviously 
not  to  be  confounded  with  another  signification  of  the 
same  phrase,  as  in  Luke  ii,  13  [see  Angels]  : (b)  Lights 
of  heaven  (Gen.  i,  14, 15, 16 ; Ezek.  xxxii,  8) : (c)  Stars 
of  heaven  (Gen.  xxii,  17;  xxvi,  4;  Exod.  xxxii,  13; 
Deut.  i,  10;  x,  22;  xxviii,  62;  Judg.v,  20;  Neh.  ix,  23; 
Isa.  xiii,  10;  Nah.  iii,  16;  Heb.  xi,  12).  (HI.)  Calum 

angeliferum.  It  would  exceed  our  limits  if  we  were  to 
collect  the  descriptive  phrases  which  revelation  has 
given  ns  of  heaven  in  its  sublimest  sense;  we  content 
ourselves  with  indicating  one  or  two  of  the  most  obvi- 
ous : (a)  The  heaven  of  heavens  (Deut.  x,  14 ; 1 Kings 
viii,  27;  2 Chron.  ii,  6,  18;  Neh.  ix,  6;  Psa.  exv,  16; 
cxlviii,4:  ( b ) The  third  heavens  (2  Cor.  xii,  2):  (e)  The 
high  and  lofty  [/Jwce]  (Isa.  xlvii,  15):  (d)  The  highest 
(Matt,  xxi,  9;  Mark  xi,  10;  Luke  ii,  14,  compared  with 
Psa.  clxviii,  1).  This  heavenly  sublimity  was  gracious- 
ly brought  down  to  Jewish  apprehension  in  the  sacred 
symbol  of  their  Tabernacle  and  Temple,  which  they  rev- 
erenced (especially  in  the  adytum  of  “ the  Holy  of  Ho- 
lies”) as  “the  place  where  God’s  honor  dwelt”  (Psa.  xxvi, 
8),  and  amidst  the  scidptured  types  of  his  celestial  reti- 
nue, in  the  cherubim  of  the  mercy-seat  (2  Kings  xix, 
15;  Fsa.  lxxx,  1 : Isa.  xxxvii,  16). 

111.  Meaning  of  the  Terms  used  in  the  Original. — 1.  By 
far  the  most  frequent  designation  of  heaven  in  the  He- 
brew Scriptures  is  E^E’Jj  shama'yim,  which  the  older 
lexicographers  [see  Cocceius,  Lex.  s.  v.]  regarded  as  the 
dual,  but  which  Gesenius  and  Fiirst  have  restored  to  the 
dignity,  which  St.  Jerome  gave  it,  of  the  plural  of  an 
obsolete  noun,  ^E’j  as  (p^Msjdur.  of  and  E^E  from 
■^E).  According  to  these  recent  scholars,  the  idea  ex- 
pressed by  the  word  is  height,  elevation  (Gesenius,  Thes. 
p.  1453;  Fiirst,  Ilebr.  1 Vurt.  ii,  467).  In  this  respect  of 
its  essential  meaning  it  resembles  the  Greek  ovpavog 
[from  the  radical  op,  denoting  height ] (Pott,  Etymol. 
Forsch.  i,  123,  ed.  1).  Pott’s  rendering  of  this  root  dp, 
by  “sich  erheben,"  reminds  us  of  our  own  beautiful  word 
heaven,  which  thus  enters  into  brotherhood  of  significa- 
tion with  the  grand  idea  of  the  Hebrew,  Chaldee,  and 
Greek.  Professor  Bosworth,  in  his  Anglo-Sax.  Diet., 
under  the  verb  liebban,  to  raise  or  elevate,  gives  the  kin- 
dred words  of  the  whole  Teutonic  family,  and  deduces 
therefrom  the  noun  heofon  or  heofen,  in  the  sense  of 
heaven.  And  although  the  primary  notion  of  the  Latin 
ccelum  (akin  to  KoiXog  and  our  hollow ) is  the  less  sub- 
lime one  of  a covered  or  vaulted  space,  yet  the  loftier 
sense  of  elevation  has  prevailed,  both  in  the  original  (see 
White  and  Riddle,  s.  v.  Ccelum)  and  in  the  derived  lan- 
guages (comp.  French  del,  and  the  English  word  ceil- 
ing). 

2.  Closely  allied  in  meaning,  though  unconnected  in 
origin  with  E^BIE,  is  the  oft-recurring  E“HE,  niaram'. 
This  word  is  never  Englished  heaven,  but  “heights,"  or 
“ high  place,"  or  “ high  places .”  There  can,  however,  be 
no  doubt  of  its  celestial  signification  (and  that  in  the 
grandest  degree)  in  such  passages  as  Psa.  Ixviii,  18 
[Hebr.  19];  xciii,  4;  cii,  19  [or  in  the  Hebr.  Bib.  20, 
where  t:nj?  Di“EE  is  equal  to  the  E?E‘A’E  of  the 
parallel  clause]  ; similarly,  Job  xxxi,  2 ; Isa.  lvii,  15 ; 
Jer.  xxv,  30.  Dr.  Kalisch  (Genesis,  IntrocL  p.  21)  says, 


HEAVEN- 


124 


HEAVEN 


“It  was  a common  belief  among  all  ancient  nations  that 
at  the  summit  of  the  shadow  of  the  earth,  or  on  the  top 
of  the  highest  mountain  of  the  earth,  which  reaches 
with  its  crest  into  heaven  . . . the  gods  have  their  pal- 
ace or  hall  of  assembly,”  and  he  instances  “the  Babylo- 
nian A Ibordsh,  the  chief  abode  of  Ormuzd,  among  the 
heights  of  the  Caucasus;  and  the  Hindoo  Mem;  and 
the  Chinese  Kulkun  (or  Kaen-lim);  and  the  Greek  Olym- 
pus (and  Atlas) ; and  the  Arabian  Caf;  and  the  Parsee 
Tilth."  lie,  however,  while  strongly  and  indeed  most 
properly  censuring  the  identification  of  Mount  Mem 
with  Mount  Moriah  (which  had  hastily  been  conjec- 
tured from  “ the  accidental  resemblance  of  the  names”), 
deems  it  improbable  that  the  Israelites  should  have  en- 
tertained, like  other  ancient  nations,  the  notion  of  local 
height  for  the  abode  of  him  whose  “glory  the  heaven 
and  the  heaven  of  heavens  cannot  contain;”  and  this 
he  supposes  on  the  ground  that  such  a notion  “ rests  es- 
sentially on  polytheistic  ideas."  Surely  the  learned  com- 
mentator is  premature  in  both  these  statements.  (1.) 
No  such  improbability,  in  fact,  unhappily,  can  be  predi- 
cated of  the  Israelites,  who  in  ancient  times  (notwith- 
standing the  divine  prohibitions)  exhibited  a constant 
tendency  to  the  ritual  of  their  TICS,  or  llhiyh  places." 
Gesenins  makes  a more  correct  statement  when  he  says 
[Ihbr.  Lex.  by  Robinson,  p.  138],  “The  Hebrews,  like 
most  other  ancient  nations,  supposed  that  sacred  rites 
performed  on  high  places  were  particularly  acceptable  to 
the  Deity,  lienee  they  were  accustomed  to  offer  sacri- 
fices upon  mountains  and  hills,  both  to  idols  and  to  God 
himself  (1  Sam.  ix,  12  sq. ; 1 Chron.  xiii,29  sq. ; 1 Kings 
iii,4;  2 Kings  xii,  2,3;  Isa.  xlv,  7);  and  also  to  build 
there  chapels, fanes,  tabernacles  (HySH  “T2, 1 Kings 
xiii,32;  2 Kings  xvii,29),  with  their  priests  and  other 
ministers  of  the  sacred  rites  (P*l  *:PI2,  1 Kings  xii, 

32;  2 Kings  xvii,32).  So  tenacious  of  this  ancient  cus- 
tom were  not  only  the  ten  tribes,  but  also  all  the  Jews, 
that,  even  after  the  building  of  Solomon’s  Temple,  in 
spite  of  the  express  law  of  Dent,  xii,  they  continued  to 
erect  such  chapels  on  the  mountains  around  Jerusalem.” 
(2.)  Neither  from  the  character  of  Jehovah,  as  the  God 
of  Israel,  can  the  improbability  be  maintained,  as  if  it 
were  of  the  essence  of  polytheism  only  to  localize  Deity 
on  mountain  heights.  “ The  high  and  lofty  One  that 
inhabiteth  eternity,  whose  name  is  Holy,”  in  the  procla- 
mation which  lie  is  pleased  to  make  of  his  own  style, 
does  not  limit  his  abode  to  celestial  sublimities;  in  one 
of  the  finest  passages  of  even  Isaiah’s  poetry, God  claims 
as  one  of  the  stations  of  his  glory  the  shrine  of  “a  con- 
trite and  humble  spirit”  (Isa.  lvii,  15).  1 1 is  loftiest  at- 

tributes, therefore,  are  not  compromised,  nor  is  the  am- 
plitude of  his  omnipresence  compressed  by  an  earthly 
residence.  Accordingly,  the  same  Jehovah  who  “ walk- 
eth  on  the  high  places,  P^S,  of  the  earth”  (Amos  iv,  13); 
who  “treadeth  on  the  fastnesses,  P'23,  of  the  sea”  (Job 
ix,N);  and  “who  aseendeth  above  the  heights,  P;,23,of 
the  clouds,”  was  pleased  to  consecrate  Zion  as  his  dwell- 
ing-place (Psa.  Ixxxvii,  2),  and  his  rest  (Psa.  cxxxii,18, 
11).  Ilcnce  we  find  the  same  word,  CVTS,  which  is  of- 
ten descriptive  of  the  sublimest  heaven,  used  of  Zion, 
which  Kzckicl  calls  “the  mountain  of  the  height  ef  Is- 
rael,” bjnr?  rr-2  “n  (xvii,23;  XX, 40 ; xxxiv,  14). 

y algal'.  This  word,  which  literally  mean- 
ing a wheel , admirably  expresses  rotatory  movement,  is 
actually  rendered  “ heaven"  in  the  A.V.  of  Psa.  Ixxvii, 
1>D  “The  voice  of  thy  thunder  was  in  the  heaven,” 
'’i'?-"  - [ScPt-  rtp  rpox'p;  Vulg.  in  rota].  Luther’s 
version  agrees  with  the  A.  Vers,  in  Jlimnwl;  and  Dathe 
renders  per  urban,  which  is  ambiguous,  being  as  expres- 
sive, to  say  the  least,  of  the  globe  of  the  earth  as  of  the 
circle  of  heaven.  The  Targum  (in  Walton,  vol.  iii)  on 
the  passage  gives  xbrbrc  (in  rota),  which  is  as  inde- 
terminate as  the  original,  as  the  Syriac  also  seems  to  be. 
De  Wctte  (and  alter  him  Justus  Olshausen,  Lie  Ps.  er- 


lidrt,  1.  c.)  renders  the  phrase  “in  the  whirlwind.” 
Maurer,  who  disapproves  of  this  rendering,  explains  the 
phrase  “rotated.”  But,  amidst  the  uncertainty  of  the 
versions,  we  are  disposed  to  think  that  it  was  not  Avith- 
out  good  reason  that  our  translators,  in  departing  from 
the  previous  version  (see  Psalter,  ad  loc.,  which  has, 
“ the  voice  of  thy  thunder  was  heard  round  about"),  de- 
liberately rendered  the  passage  in  the.  heaven,  as  if  the 
bib}  Avere  the  correlative  of  b3P,  both  being  poetic 
Avords,  and  both  together  equalled  the  heaven  and  the 
earth.  In  Jas.  iii,  G,  the  remarkable  phrase,  rbv  rpo- 
Xov  rijg  yeviaeuig,  the  course,  circuit , or  wheel  of  nature, 
is  akin  to  our  bib  (The  Syriac  renders  the  rpoxou 
by  the  same  word,  Avhich  occurs  in  the  psalm  as  the 
cquWalent  of  bib 5,  Scliaaf’s  Lex.  Syr. ; and  of  the  same 
indefiniteness  of  signification.)  That  the  general  sense 
“ heaven"  best  expresses  the  force  of  Psa.  Ixxvii,  18,  is 
rendered  probable,  moreover,  by  the  description  AA'hieh 
Josephus  gives  (Ant.  ii,  16, 3)  of  the  destruction  of  Pha- 
raoh’s host  in  the  Bed  Sea,  the  subject  of  that  part  of 
the  psalm,  “ ShoAvers  of  rain  descended  from  heaven,  car 
ovpavoi),  with  dreadful  thunders  and  lightning,  and 
flashes  of  fire;  thunderbolts  Avere  darted  upon  them, 
nor  Avere  there  any  indications  of  God’s  Avrath  upon 
men  Avanting  on  that  dark  and  dismal  night.” 

4.  As  the  Avords  Ave  have  reviewed  indicate  the  height 
and  rotation  of  the  heavens,  so  the  tAvo  Ave  have  yet  to 
examine  exhibit  another  characteristic  of  equal  promi- 
nence, the  breadth  and  expanse  of  the  celestial  regions. 
These  are  pfiD,  shach'ak  (generally  used  in  the  plural) 
and  They  occur  together  in  Job  xxxvii,  18: 

“Hast  thou  Avith  him  spread  out  (2“p“n)  the  sky  or 
expanse  of  hea\Ten?” — (fplTjb,  Avhere  b is  the  sign 
of  the  objective).  We  must  examine  them  separately. 
The  root  pJTJ  is  explained  by  Gesenins  to  grind  to 
powder,  and  then  to  expand  by  rubbing  or  beating.  Meier 
(Ilcbr.  Wurzel-w.-b.  p.  44G)  compares  it  Avith  the  Arabic 
shachaka,  to  make  fine,  to  attenuate  (AArhence  the  noun 
shachim,  a thin  cloud).  With  him  agrees  Ffirst  (Ilebr.- 
w.-b.  ii,  433).  The  Hcb.  subst.  is  therefore  Avell  adapted 
to  designate  the  skyey  region  of  heaven  with  its  cloud- 
dust,  Avhetlier  fine  or  dense.  Accordingly,  the  meaning 
of  the  AA-ord  in  its  various  passages  curiously  oscillates 
between  sky  and  cloud.  When  Moses,  in  Deut.  xxxiii, 
26, Lauds  Jehovah’s  “riding  in  his  excellence  on  the  sky;" 
and  Avhen,  in  2 Sam.  xxii,  12,  and  repeated  in  Psa.  x\'iii, 
1 1 (12),  DaAud  speaks  of  “ the  thick  clouds  of  the  skies 
when  Job  (xxxvii,  18)  asks, “ Hast thon  Avith  him  spread 
out.  the  sky?"  when  the  Psalmist  (Psa.  Lxxvii,  17  [18]) 
speaks  of  “ the  skies  sending  out  a sound,”  and  the  proph- 
et (Isa.  xhr,  8),  figuratively,  of  their  “pouring  doAvn 
righteousness;”  Avhen,  finally,  Jeremiah  (li,  9),  by  a fre- 
quenthr  occurring  simile  [comp.  EeA\  XA'iii,  5,  ijkoXov- 
Srjaav  avrrjg  ai  dpapriai  dxpi  too  oupai/ou],  describes 
the  judgment  of  Babylon  as  “lifted  up  eAren  to  the  skies," 
in  eA'ery  instance  our  Avord  D^pITj  in  the  plural  is 
employed.  The  same  word  in  the  same  form  is  trans- 
lated “ clouds"  in  Job  xxxa%  5;  xxxvi,  28;  xxxvii,  21 ; 
xxxviii,  37 ; in  Psa.  xxxA’i,  5 (6);  lvii,  10  (11);  lxviii, 
34  (35)  [margin,  ‘'heavens"] ; lxxviii,  23;  in  ProAr.  iii, 
20 ; viii,  28.  The  pre\*alcnt  sense  of  this  AA’ord,  Ave  thus 
see,  is  a meteorological  one,  and  falls  under  our  first  head 
of  ccelum  nubifemm  ; its  connection  Avith  the  other  tAvo 
heads  is  much  slighter.  It  bears  probably  an  astronom- 
ical sense  in  Psa.  lxxxix,  37  (38),  Avhere  « the  faithful 
Avitncss  in  lieaA’en”  seems  to  be  in  apposition  to  the  sun 
and  the  moon  (Bellarminc,  ad  loc.) , although  some  sup- 
pose the  expression  to  mean  the  rainbow,  “ the  witness” 
of  God's  covenant  with  Noah ; Gen.  Lx,  13  sq.  (see  J.  Ols- 
hausen, ad  loc.).  This  is  perhaps  the  only  instance  of 
its  falling  under  the  class  ccelum  astrferum ; nor  haA'e 
Ave  a much  more  frequent  reference  to  the  higher  sense 
of  the  ccelum  angelifenm  (Psa.  lxxxix,  6 containing  the 
only  explicit  allusion  to  this  sense) ; unless,  Avith  Gese- 


HEAVEN 


125 


HEAVEN 


nius,  Thes.  s.  v.,  we  refer  Psa.  lxviii,  35  also  to  it.  More 
probably  in  Deut.  xxxiii,  26  (where  it  is  parallel  with 
C*va;y,  and  in  the  highly  poetical  passages  of  Isa.  xlv, 
8,  and  Jer.  li,  9,  our  word  D^pn'j  may  be  best  regarded 
as  designating  the  empyreal  heavens. 

5.  We  have  already  noticed  the  connection  between 
D^pri'j  and  our  only  remaining  word  raki'a, 

from  their  being  associated  by  the  sacred  writer  in  the 
same  sentence  (Job  xxxvii,  18);  it  tends  to  corroborate 
this  connection  that,  on  comparing  Gen.  i,  6 (and  seven 
other  passages  in  the  same  chapter)  with  Deut.  xxxiii, 
26,  we  find  y of  the  former  sentence,  and 
of  the  latter,  both  rendered  by  the  Sept,  or eptuopa  and 
firmamentum  in  the  Vulg.,  whence  the  word  “firmament" 
passed  into  our  A.Y.  This  word  is  now  a well-under- 
stood term  in  astronomy,  synonymous  with  sky  or  else 
the  general  heavens,  undivested  by  the  discoveries  of 
science  of  the  special  signification  which  it  bore  in  the 
ancient  astronomy.  See  Fikm.uient.  For  a clear  ex- 
position of  all  the  Scripture  passages  which  bear  on  the 
subject,  we  may  refer  the  reader  to  professor  Dawson’s 
Arckaia,  especially  chap,  viii,  and  to  Dr.  M'Caul  on  The 
Mosaic  Record  of  Creation  (or,  what  is  substantially  the 
same  treatise  in  a more  accessible  form,  his  Notes  on  the 
First  Chapter  of  Genesis,  sec.  ix,  p.  32-44).  We  must 
be  content  here,  in  reference  to  our  term  “^pp,  to  ob- 
serve that,  when  we  regard  its  origin  (from  the  root 
rp“l,  to  spread  out  or  expand  by  beating;  Gescn.  s.  v. ; 
Fuller,  Misc.  Sacr.  i,  6 ; Fiirst,  Ilebr.-w.-b.  s.  v.),  and  its 
connection  with,  and  illustration  by,  such  words  as 
dipnA  clouds,  and  the  verbs  nSd  (Isa.  xlviii,  13, 
“ MyT  right  hand  hath  spread  out  the  heavens”)  and 
(Isa.  xl,  22,  “Who  streteheth  out  the  heavens  like  a 
curtain”  [literally,  like  fineness],  u and  spreadeth  them 
out  as  a tent”),  we  are  astonished  at  certain  rationalistic 
attempts  to  control  the  meaning  of  an  intelligible  term, 
which  fits  in  easily  and  consistently  with  the  nature 
of  tilings,  by  a few  poetical  metaphors,  that  are  them- 
selves cajiable  of  a consistent  sense  when  held  subordi- 
nate to  the  plainer  passages  of  prose. — Kitto.  The  full- 
er expression  is  i’^pp  (Gen.  i,  11  sq.).  That 

Moses  understood  it  to  mean  a solid  expanse  is  clear 
from  his  representing  it  as  the  barrier  between  the  up- 
per and  lower  waters  (Gen.  i,  6 sq.),  i.  e.  as  separating 
the  reservoir  of  the  celestial  ocean  (Psa.  civ,  3;  xxix,3) 
from  the  waters  of  the  earth,  or  those  on  which  the 
earth  was  supposed  to  float  (Psa.  cxxxvi,  6).  Through 
its  open  lattices  (nidpX,  Gen.  vii,  11 ; 2 Kings  vii,  2, 
19;  compare  kogkivov,  Aristophanes,  Nub.  373)  or  doors 
(Q?pbp,  Psa.  lxxviii,  23)  the  dew,  and  snow,  and  hail 
arc  poured  upon  the  earth  (Job  xxxviii,  22,  37,  where 
we  have  the  curious  expression  “bottles  of  heaven,” 
“utres  coeli”).  This  firm  vault,  which  Job  describes  as 
being  “strong  as  a molten  looking-glass”  (xxxvii,  18), 
is  transparent,  like  pellucid  sapphire,  and  splendid  as 
crystal  (Dan.  xii,  3 ; Exod.  xxiv,  10 ; Ezek.  i,  22 ; Rev. 
iv,  G),  over  which  rests  the  throne  of  God  (Isa.  lxvi,  1 ; 
Ezek.  i,  26),  and  which  is  opened  for  the  descent  of  an- 
gels, or  for  prophetic  visions  (Gen.  xxviii,  17 ; Ezek.  i, 
1;  Acts  vii,  56;  x,  11).  In  it,  like  gems  or  golden 
lamps,  the  stars  are  fixed  to  give  light  to  the  earth,  and 
regulate  the  seasons  (Gen.  i,  14-i9);  and  the  whole 
magnificent,  immeasurable  structure  (Jer.  xxxi,  37)  is 
supported  by  the  mountains  as  its  pillars,  or  strong 
foundations  (Psa.  xviii,  7;  2 Sam.  xxii,  8;  Job  xxiv, 
1 1).  Similarly  the  Greeks  believed  in  an  ovpavbg  iro\- 
v\a\Kog  (Horn.  II.  v,  504),  or  otOgpsog  (Horn.  Od.  xv, 
328),  or  addpao-OQ  (Orph.  Hymn,  ad  Ccehtm ),  which  the 
philosophers  called  anpefiviov  or  icpvoraWoeiSsg  (Em- 
pedocles, ap.  Plut.  de  Phil.  plac.  ii,  1 1 ; Artemid.  ap.  Sen. 
Nat.  Qucest.  vii,  13;  quoted  by  Gesenins,  s.  v.).  It  is 
clear  that  very  many  of  the  above  notions  were  meta- 
phors resulting  from  the  simple  primitive  conception, 
and  that  later  writers  among  the  Hebrews  had  arrived 


at  more  scientific  views,  although,  of  course,  they  re- 
tained much  of  the  old  phraseology,  and  are  fluctuating 
and  undecided  in  their  terms.  Elsewhere,  for  instance, 
the  heavens  are  likened  to  a curtain  (Psa.  civ,  2 ; Isa. 
xl,  22).— Smith.  See  Cosmogony. 

IN.  Metaphorical  A pplication  of  the  Visible  Heavens. 
— A door  opened  in  heaven  is  the  beginning  of  a new 
revelation.  To  ascend  up  into  heaven  signifies  to  be  in 
full  power.  Thus  is  the  symbol  to  be  understood  in  Isa. 
xiv,  13,  14,  where  the  king  of  Babylon  says,  “ I will  as- 
cend into  heaven ; I will  exalt  my  throne  above  the 
stars  of  God.”  To  descend  from  heaven  signifies,  sym- 
bolically, to  act  by  a commission  from  heaven.  Thus 
our  Saviour  uses  the  word  “ descending”  (John  i,  51)  in 
speaking  of  the  angels  acting  by  divine  commission,  at 
tiie  command  of  the  Son  of  man.  To  fall  from  heaven 
signifies  to  lose  power  and  authority,  to  be  deprived  of 
the  power  to  govern,  to  revolt  or  apostatize. 

The  heaven  opened.  The  natural  heaven,  being  the 
symbol  of  the  governing  part  of  the  political  world,  a 
new  face  in  the  natural,  represents  a new  face  in  the 
political.  Or  the  heaven  may  be  said  to  be  opened  when 
the  day  appears,  and  consequently  shut  when  night 
comes  on,  as  appears  from  Virgil  (sEn.  x,  1),  “The  gates 
of  heaven  unfold,”  etc.  Thus  the  Scripture,  in  a poet- 
ical manner,  speaks  of  the  doors  of  heaven  (Psa.  lxxviii, 
23) ; of  the  heaven  being  shut  (1  Kings  viii,  35) ; and  in 
Ezek.  i,  1,  the  heaven  is  said  to  be  opened. 

Midst  of  heaven  may  be  the  air,  or  the  region  be- 
tween heaven  and  earth  ; or  the  middle  station  between 
the  corrupted  earth  and  the  throne  of  God  in  heaven. 
In  this  sense,  the  air  is  the  proper  place  where  God’s 
threatenings  and  judgments  should  be  denounced.  Thus, 
in  1 Cliron.  xxi,  16,  it  is  said  that  David  saw  the  angel 
of  the  Lord  stand  between  the  earth  and  the  heaven  as 
he  was  just  going  to  destroy  Jerusalem  with  the  pesti- 
lence. The  angel’s  hovering  there  was  to  show  that 
there  was  room  to  pray  for  mercy,  just  as  God  was  go- 
ing to  inflict  the  punishment : it  had  not  as  yet  done 
any  execution. — Wemyss. 

C.  Spiritual  and  Everlasting  Sense,  i.  c.  the  state  and 
place  of  blessedness  in  the  life  to  come.  Of  the  nature 
of  this  blessedness  it  is  not  possible  that  we  should  form 
any  adequate  conception,  and,  consequently,  that  any 
precise  information  respecting  it  should  be  given  to  us. 
Man,  indeed,  usually  conceives  the  joys  of  heaven  to  be 
the  same  as,  or  at  least  to  resemble,  the  pleasures  of  this 
world;  and  each  one  hopes  to  obtain  with  certainty,  and 
to  enjoy  in  frill  measure  beyond  the  grave,  that  which 
he  holds  most  dear  upon  earth — those  favorite  employ- 
ments or  particular  delights  which  he  ardently  longs 
for  here,  but  which  he  can  seldom  or  never  enjoy  in  this 
world,  or  in  the  enjoyment  of  which  lie  is  never  fully 
satisfied.  But  one  who  reflects  soberly  on  the  subject 
will  readily  see  that  the  happiness  of  heaven  must  be  a 
very  different  thing  from  earthly  happiness.  In  this 
world  the  highest  pleasures  of  which  our  nature  is  ca- 
pable satiate  by  their  continuance,  and  soon  lose  the 
power  of  giving  positive  enjoyment.  This  alone  is  suf- 
ficient to  show  that  the  bliss  of  the  future  world  must 
be  of  an  entirely  different  kind  from  what  is  called 
earthly  joy  and  happiness,  if  we  are  to  be  there  truly 
happy,  and  happy  forever.  But  since  we  can  have  no 
distinct  conception  of  those  joys  which  never  have  been 
and  never  will  be  experienced  by  us  here  in  their  full 
extent,  we  have,  of  course,  no  words  in  human  Language 
to  express  them,  and  cannot  therefore  expect  any  clear 
description  of  them  even  in  the  holy  Scriptures.  Hence 
the  Bible  describes  this  happiness  sometimes  in  general 
terms,  designating  its  greatness  (as  in  Rom.  viii,  18-22; 
2 Cor.  iv,  17,  18),  and  sometimes  by  various  figurative 
images  and  modes  of  speech,  borrowed  from  everything 
which  we  know  to  be  attractive  and  desirable. 

The  greater  part  of  these  images  were  already  com- 
mon among  the  Jewish  contemporaries  of  Christ ; but 
Christ  and  his  apostles  employed  them  in  a purer  sense 
than  the  great  multitude  of  the  Jews.  The  Orientals 


126 


HEAVEN 


HEAVEN 


arc  rich  in  such  figures.  They  were  employed  by  Mo- 
hammed, who  carried  them,  as  his  manner  was,  to  an 
extravagant  excess,  but  who  at  the  same  time  said  ex- 
pressly That  they  were  mere  figures,  although  many  of 
his  followers  afterwards  understood  them  literally,  as  has 
been  often  done  in  a similar  way  bv  many  Christians. 

The  following  are  the  principal  terms,  both  literal 
and  figurative,  which  are  applied  in  Scripture  to  the 
condition  of  future  happiness.  # , 

(u  Among  the  literal  appellations  we  find  £oj/j,  Zcoi] 
aiua  iog, which,  according  to  Hebrew  usage,  signify  “a 
happy  life,”  or  ‘‘eternal  well-being,”  and  are  the  words 
rendered  “life,”  “eternal  life,”  and  “life  everlasting”  in 
the  A.  Vers.  (c.  g.  Matt,  vii,  14;  xix,  16,  29;  xxv,  46): 
cu£«,  cv'£a  tov  Otov,  “ glory,”  “ the  glory  of  God”  (Rom. 
ii,  7, 10 ; v,  2) ; and  eiptp'Vi  “ peace”  (Rom.  ii,  10).  Also 
aid/ viov  fiapog  c »&i£,  “an  eternal  weight  of  glory”  (2 
Cor.  iv,  17);  and  i rwrrjpia , cru/rrjpia  aiwptog,  “salva- 
tion,” “ eternal  salvation”  (Ileb.  v,  9),  etc. 

b.  Among  tlie  figurative  representations  we  may  place 
the  word  “ heaven”  itself.  The  abode  of  departed  spir- 
its, to  us  who  live  upon  the  earth,  and  while  we  remain 
here,  is  invisible  and  inaccessible,  beyond  the  bounds  of 
the  visible  world,  and  entirely  separated  from  it.  There 
they  live  in  the  highest  well-being,  and  in  a nearer 
connection  with  God  and  Christ  than  here  below.  This 
place  and  state  cannot  be  designated  by  any  more  fit 
and  brief  expression  than  that  which  is  found  in  almost 
every  language,  namely,  “ heaven” — a word  in  its  pri- 
mary and  material  signification  denoting  the  region  of 
the  skies,  or  the  visible  heavens.  This  word,  in  Jleb. 

in  Gr.  onpai'oc,  is  therefore  frequently  employ- 
ed by  the  sacred  writers,  as  above  exemplified.  It  is 
there  that  the  highest  sanctuary  or  temple  of  God  is 
situated,  i.e.  it  is  there  that  the  omnipresent  God  most 
gloriously  reveals  himself.  This,  too,  is  the  abode  of 
God’s  highest  spiritual  creation.  Thither  Christ  was! 
transported : he  calls  it  the  house  of  his  Father,  and 
says  that  he  has  therein  prepared  an  abode  for  his  fol- 
lowers (John  xiv,  2). 

This  place,  this  “ heaven,”  was  never  conceived  of  in 
ancient  times,  as  it  has  been  by  some  modem  writers, 
as  a particular  planet  or  world,  but  as  the  wide  expanse 
of  heaven,  high  above  the  atmosphere  or  starry  heav- 
ens; hence  it  is  sometimes  called  the  third  heaven,  as 
being  neither  the  atmosphere  nor  the  starry  heavens. 

Another  figurative  name  is  “ l’aradise,”  taken  from 
the  abode  of  our  first  parents  in  their  state  of  innocence, 
and  transferred  to  the  abode  of  the  blessed  (Luke  xxiii, 
43 ; 2 Cor.  xii,  4 ; Rev.  ii,  7 ; xxii,  2). 

Again, this  place  is  called  “the  heavenly  Jerusalem” 
(Gal.  iv,  26;  Ileb.  xii,  22;  Rev.  iii,  12),  because  the 
earthly  Jerusalem  was  the  capital  city  of  the  Jews,  the 
royal  residence,  and  the  seat  of  divine  worship;  the 
“ kingdom  of  heaven”  (Matt,  xxv,  1 ; Jas.  ii,  5) ; the 
“ heavenly  kingdom”  (2  Tim.  iv,  IX) ; the  “ eternal  king- 
dom” (2  Ret.  i,  1 1).  It  is  also  called  an  “ eternal  inher- 
itance” (1  Ret.  i,  4;  Ileb.  ix,  15),  meaning  the  posses- 
sion and  full  enjoyment  of  happiness,  typified  by  the 
residence  of  the  ancient  Hebrews  in  Palestine.  The 
blessed  are  said  “to  sit  down  at  table  with  Abraham, 
Isaac,  and  Jacob,”  that  is,  to  be  a sharer  with  the  saints 
of  old  in  the  joys  of  salvation ; “to  be  in  Abraham’s  bo- 
som" (Luke  xvi,  22 ; Matt,  vii i,  11),  that  is,  to  sit  near 
or  next  to  Abraham  [see  Bosom ] ; “to  reign  with 
Christ”  (2  Tim.  ii,  11),  i.  e.  to  be  distinguished,  honored, 
ami  happy  as  lie  is— to  enjoy  regal  felicities;  to  enjoy 
“a  Sabbath,”  or  “rest”  (lick  iv,  10, 1 ] ),  indicating  the 
happiness  of  pious  Christians  both  in  this  life  and  in  the 
life  to  come. 

All  that  we  can  with  certainty  know  or  infer  from 
Scripture  or  reason  respecting  the  blessedness  of  the  life 
to  come  may  be  arranged  under  the  following  particu- 
lars: I.  We  shall  hereafter  be  entirely  freed  from  the 
sufferings  and  adversities  of  this  life.  II.  Our  future 
blessedness  will  involve  a continuance  of  the  real  happi- 
ness of  this  life. 


I.  The  entire  exemption  from  suffering,  and  all  that 
causes  suffering  here,  is  expressed  in  Scripture  by  words 
which  denote  rest,  repose,  refreshment,  after  performing 
labor  and  enduring  affliction.  But  all  the  terms  which 
are  employed  to  express  this  coudition  define  (in  the 
original)  the  promised  “ rest”  as  rest  after  labor,  and  ex- 
emption from  toil  and  grief,  and  not  the  absence  of  em- 
ployment, not  inactivity  or  indolence  (2  Thess.  i,  7 ; Hcb. 
iv,  9, 11 ; Rev.  xiv,  13 ; compare  vii,  17).  This  deliver- 
ance from  the  evils  of  our  present  life  includes, 

1.  Deliverance  from  this  earthly  body,  the  seat  of  the 
lower  principles  of  our  nature  and  of  our  sinful  corrup- 
tion, and  the  source  of  so  many  evils  and  sufferings  (2 
Cor.  vi,  1,  2 ; 1 Cor.  xv,  42-50). 

2.  Entire  separation  from  the  society  of  wicked  and 
evil-disposed  persons,  who  in  various  ways  injure  the 
righteous  man  and  embitter  his  life  on  earth  (2  Tim.  iv, 
18).  It  is  hence  accounted  a part  of  the  felicity  even 
of  Christ  himself  in  heaven  to  be  “ separate  from  sin- 
ners” (Hob.  vii,  26). 

3.  Upon  this  earth  everything  is  inconstant  and  sub- 
ject to  perpetual  change,  and  nothing  is  capable  of 
completely  satisfying  our  expectations  and  desires.  But 
in  the  world  to  come  it  will  be  different.  The  bliss  of 
the  saints  will  continue  without  interruption  or  change, 
without  fear  of  termination,  and  without  satiety  (Luke 
xx,  36 ; 2 Cor.  iv,  16, 18 ; 1 Pet.  i,  4 ; v,  10 ; 1 John  iii,  2 

sqO- 

II.  Besides  being  exempt  from  all  earthly  trials,  and 
having  a continuance  of  that  happiness  which  we  had 
begun  to  enjoy  even  here,  we  have  good  reason  to  ex- 
pect hereafter  other  rewards  and  joys,  which  stand  in 
no  natural  or  necessary  connection  with  the  present  life ; 
for  our  entire  felicity  would  be  extremely  defective  and 
scanty  were  it  to  be  confined  merely  to  that  which  we 
carry  with  us  from  the  present  world,  to  that  peace  and 
joy  of  soul  which  result  from  reflecting  on  what  we  may 
have  done  which  is  good  and  pleasing  in  the  sight  of 
God,  since  even  the  best  men  will  always  discover  great 
imperfections  in  all  that  they  have  done.  Our  felicity 
would  also  be  incomplete  were  we  compelled  to  stop  short 
with  that  meagre  and  elementary  knowledge  which  we 
take  with  ns  from  this  world — that  knowledge  so  broken 
up  into  fragments,  and  yielding  so  little  fruit,  and  which, 
poor  as  it  is,  many  good  men,  from  lack  of  opportunity, 
and  without  any  fault  on  their  part,  never  here  acquire. 
Besides  the  natural  rewards  of  goodness,  there  must 
therefore  be  others  which  are  posit  ice,  and  dependent 
on  the  will  of  the  supreme  Legislator. 

On  this  point  almost  all  philosophers  are,  for  the 
above  reasons,  agreed — even  those  who  will  admit  of  no 
positive  punishments  in  the  world  to  come.  But,  for  want 
of  accurate  knowledge  of  the  state  of  tilings  in  the  fu- 
ture world,  we  can  say  nothing  definite  and  certain  as 
to  the  nature  of  the  positive  rewards.  In  the  doctrine 
of  the  New  Testament,  however,  positive  rewards  are 
considered  most  obviously  as  belonging  to  our  future  fe- 
licity, and  as  constituting  a principal  part  of  it;  for  it 
always  represents  the  joys  of  heaven  as  resulting  strict- 
ly from  the  favor  of  God,  and  as  being  undeserved  by 
those  on  whom  they  are  bestowed.  Hence  there  must 
be  something  more  added  to  the  natural  good  conse- 
quences of  our  actions  here  performed.  But  on  this 
subject  we  know  nothing  more  in  general  than  this, 
that  God  will  so  appoint  and  order  our  circumstances, 
and  make  such  arrangements,  that  the  principal  facul- 
ties of  our  souls,  reason  and  affection,  will  be  heightened 
and  developed,  so  that  we  shall  continually  obtain  more 
pure  and  distinct  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  make  con- 
tinual advances  in  holiness. 

4Ve  may  remark  that  in  this  life  God  has  very 
wisely  allotted  various  capacities,  powers,  and  talents, 
in  different  ways  and  degrees,  to  different  men,  accord- 
ing to  the  various  ends  for  which  he  designs  them,  and 
the  business  on  which  he  employs  them.  Now  there  is 
not  the  least  reason  to  suppose  that  God  will  abolish 
this  variety  in  the  future  world;  it  will  rather  continue 


HEAVEN 


127 


HEAVE-OFFERING 


there  in  all  its  extent.  We  must  suppose,  then,  that 
there  will  be,  even  in  the  heavenly  world,  a diversity 
of  tastes,  of  labors,  and  of  employments,  and  that  to  one 
person  this,  to  another  that  field,  in  the  boundless  king- 
dom of  truth  and  of  useful  occupation,  will  be  assigned 
for  his  cultivation,  according  to  his  peculiar  powers, 
qualifications,  and  tastes.  A presentiment  of  this  truth 
is  contained  in  the  idea,  which  was  widely  diffused 
throughout  the  ancient  world,  viz.  that  the  manes  will 
continue  to  prosecute  in  the  future  life  the  employments 
to  which  they  had  been  here  accustomed.  At  least 
such  arrangements  will  doubtless  be  made  by  God  in 
the  future  life  that  each  individual  will  there  develop 
more  and  more  the  germs  implanted  within  him  by  the 
hand  of  the  Creator;  and  will  be  able,  more  fully  than 
he  ever  could  do  here,  to  satisfy  the  wants  of  his  intel- 
lectual nature,  and  thus  to  make  continual  progress  in 
the  knowledge  of  everything  worthy  of  being  known, 
of  which  he  could  only  learn  the  simplest  elements  in 
this  world ; and  he  will  be  able  to  do  this  in  such  a way 
that  the  increase  of  knowledge  will  not  be  detrimental 
to  piety,  as  it  often  proves  on  earth,  but  rather  promo- 
tive of  it.  To  the  sincere  and  ardent  searcher  after 
truth  it  is  a rejoicing  and  consoling  thought  that  he 
will  be  able  hereafter  to  perfect  that  knowledge  which 
here  has  so  many  deficiencies  (1  Cor.  xiii,  9). 

But  there  is  danger  of  going  too  far  on  this  point, 
and  of  falling  into  strange  misconceptions.  Various  as 
the  tastes  and  wants  of  men  in  the  future  world  will 
doubtless  be,  they  will  still  be  in  many  respects  differ- 
ent from  what  they  are  here,  because  the  whole  sphere 
of  action,  and  the  objects  by  which  we  shall  there  be 
surrounded,  will  be  different.  We  shall  there  have  a 
changed  and  more  perfect  body,  and  by  this  single  cir- 
cumstance shall  be  freed  at  once  from  many  of  the  wants 
and  inclinations  which  have  their  seat  in  the  earthly 
body.  This  will  also  contribute  much  to  rectify,  en- 
large, and  perfect  our  knowledge.  Many  things  which 
seem  to  us  very  important  and  essential  during  this  our 
state  of  infancy  upon  earth  will  hereafter  doubtless  ap- 
pear in  a different  light : we  shall  look  upon  them  as 
trifles  and  children’s  play,  and  employ  ourselves  in  more 
important  occupations,  the  utility  and  interest  of  which 
we  have  never  before  imagined. 

Some  theologians  have  supposed  that  the  saints  in 
heaven  may  be  taught  by  immediate  divine  revelations 
(lumen  gloria;),  especially  those  who  may  enter  the 
abodes  of  the  blessed  without  knowledge,  or  with  only 
a small  measure  of  it;  e.  g.  children  and  others  who 
have  died  in  ignorance,  for  which  they  themselves  were 
not  to  blame.  On  this  subject  nothing  is  definitely 
taught  in  the  Scriptures,  but  both  Scripture  and  reason 
warrant  us  in  believing  that  provision  will  be  made  for 
all  such  persons  in  the  world  to  come.  A principal  part 
of  our  future  happiness  will  consist,  according  to  the 
Christian  doctrine,  in  the  enlarging  and  correcting  of 
our  knowledge  respecting  God,  his  nature,  attributes, 
and  works,  and  in  the  salutary  application  of  this  knowl- 
edge to  our  own  moral  benefit,  to  the  increase  of  our 
faith,  love,  and  obedience.  There  has  been  some  con- 
troversy among  theologians  with  regard  to  the  vision 
of  God  (visio  Dei  intuitiva,  sensitiva,  beatifica,  eompre- 
liensiva).  The  question  is  whether  the  saints  will  here- 
after behold  God  with  the  eyes  of  the  mind,  i.  e.  merely 
know  him  with  the  understanding. 

But  in  the  Scriptures  God  is  always  represented  as  a 
being  invisible  by  the  bodily  eye  (rioporoc),  as,  indeed, 
every  spirit  is.  The  texts  of  Scripture  which  speak  of 
seeing  God  have  been  misunderstood : they  signify,  some- 
times, the  more  distinct  knowledge  of  God , as  we  speak 
of  knowing  by  seeing,  of  seeing  with  the  eyes  of  the 
mind  (John  i,  18;  1 John  iii,  2;  iv,  12;  comp,  v,  20;  1 
Tim.  vi,  16);  and  Paul  uses  fiXirruv  and  yunocncav  as 
synonymous  (1  Cor.  xiii,  12,  13;  comp,  v,  10).  Again, 
they  express  the  idea  of  felicity,  the  enjoyment  of  God's 
favor,  the  being  thought  worthy  of  his  friendship,  etc. 
Still  more  frequently  are  both  of  these  meanings  com- 


prehended under  the  phrase  to  see  God.  The  image  is 
taken  from  Oriental  princes,  to  see  whose  face  and  to 
be  in  whose  presence  was  esteemed  a great  favor  (Matt, 
v,  8;  Heb.  vii,  14).  “Without  holiness,  ovvtig  biptrai 
rhv  Kepiop.”  The  opposite  of  this  is  to  be  removed 
from  God  and  from  his  face.  But  Christ  is  always  rep- 
resented as  one  who  will  be  personally  risible  to  ns,  anil 
Avhosc  personal,  familiar  intercourse  and  guidance  we 
shall  enjoy.  Herein  Christ  himself  places  a chief  part 
of  the  joy  of  the  saints  (John  xiv,  xvii,  etc.);  and  the 
apostles  often  describe  the  blessedness  of  the  pious  by 
the  phrase  being  with  Christ.  To  his  guidance  has  God 
intrusted  the  human  race,  in  heaven  and  on  earth.  And 
Paid  says  (2  Cor.  iv,  6),  we  see  “the  brightness  of  the 
divine  glory  in  the  face  of  Christ;”  he  is  “the  visible 
representative  of  the  invisible  God”  (Col.  i,  15). 

According  to  the  representations  contained  in  the  holy 
Scriptures,  the  saints  will  dwell  together  in  the  future 
world,  and  form,  as  it  were,  a kingdom  or  state  of  God 
(Luke  xvi;  xx,  38;  Rom.  viii,  10;  Rev.  vii,  9;  lleb.  xii, 
22).  They  will  there  partake  of  a common  felicity. 
Their  enjoyment  will  doubtless  be  very  much  height- 
ened by  friendship,  and  by  their  confiding  intercourse 
with  each  other.  We  must,  however,  separate  all  earth- 
ly imperfections  from  our  conceptions  of  this  heavenly 
society.  But  that  we  shall  there  recognise  our  former 
friends,  and  shall  be  again  associated  with  them,  was 
uniformly  believed  by  all  antiquity.  And  when  we  call 
to  mind  the  affectionate  manner  in  which  Christ  sooth- 
ed his  disciples  by  the  assurance  that  they  should  here- 
after see  him  again,  should  be  with  him,  and  enjoy 
personal  intercourse  and  friendship  with  him  in  that 
place  to  which  he  was  going  (John  xiv,  3 ; comp.  1 Pet. 
i,  8),  we  may  gather  just  grounds  for  this  belief.  Paul, 
indeed,  says  expressly  that  we  shall  be  with  Christ,  in 
company  with  our  friends  who  died  before  us  {ay a ovv 
ai'Toig,  1 Thess.  iv,  17);  and  this  presupposes  that  we 
shall  recognise  them,  and  have  intercourse  with  them,  as 
with  Christ  himself. — Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Eternal  Life, 

HEAVEN  AND  EARTH  is  an  expression  for  the 
whole  creation  (Gen.  i,  1).  In  prophetic  language  the 
phase  often  signifies  the  political  state  or  condition  of 
persons  of  different  ranks  in  this  world.  The  heaven 
of  the  political  world  is  the  sovereignty  thereof,  whose 
host  and  stars  are  the  powers  that  rule,  namely,  kings, 
princes,  counsellors,  and  magistrates.  The  earth  is  the 
peasantry,  plebeians,  or  common  race  of  men,  who  pos- 
sess no  power,  but  are  ruled  by  superiors.  Of  such  a 
heaven  and  earth  we  may  understand  mention  to  be 
made  in  Hagg.  ii,  6;  vii,  21,  22,  and  referred  to  in  lleb. 
xii,  26.  Such  modes  of  speaking  were  used  in  Ori- 
ental poetry  and  philosophy,  which  made  a heaven  and 
earth  in  everything,  that  is,  a superior  and  inferior  in 
every  part  of  nature;  and  we  learn  from  Maimonides, 
quoted  by  Mede,  that  the  Arabians  in  his  time,  when 
they  would  express  that  a man  was  fallen  into  some 
great  calamity,  said,  “His  heaven  has  fallen  to  the 
earth,”  meaning  his  superiority  or  prosperity  is  much 
diminished.  “To  look  for  new  heavens  and  a new 
earth”  (2  Pet.  iii,  13)  may  mean  to  look  for  a new  order 
of  the  present  -world. — Wemyss. 

Heave- offering  (irsniri,  terumah',  from  to 
be  high ; Sept,  usually  aQaipt/ia),  a term  including  all 
that  the  Israelites  voluntarily  (Exod.  xxv,  2 sq. ; xxxv, 
24 ; xxxvi,  3)  or  according  to  a precept  (Exod.  xxx,  15 ; 
Lei',  vii,  14;  Numb,  xv,  19  sq. ; xviii,  27  sq. ; xxi,  29 
sq. ; comp.  Ezek.  xiv,  13)  contributed  of  their  own  prop- 
erty to  Jehovah  (not  as  an  offering  in  the  usual  sense, 
but)  as  a present  (Isa.  xl,20),  to  be  applied  to  the  regu- 
lar cultus,  i.  e.  for  the  establishment  and  maintenance 
of  the  sanctuary  and  its  accessories  (Exod.  xxv,  2 sq. ; 
xxx,  13  sq. ; xxv,  5 sq.,  21,24;  xxvi,3, 6;  Ezra  viii,  25, 
etc.),  or  for  the  support  of  the  priests  (Exod.  xxix,  28; 
Numb,  xviii,  8 sq. ; v,  9).  Prescribed  contributions  were, 
in  addition  to  the  annual  temple-tax  [see  Temple], 
chiefly  that  share  of  the  booty  taken  in  Avar  Avhich  be- 


128 


HEBER 


HEAVE-SHOULDER 

longed  to  the  priests  (Numb,  xxi,  29  sq.),  the  yearly 
first-fruits  (Numb,  xv,  19  sq.;  comp.  2 Sam.  1, 21),  and 
the  tenths  which  the  Levites  were  required  to  make 
over  to  the  priests  out  of  the  natural  tithes  paid  to  them 
(Numb,  xviii,  25  sq.;  what  the  Levites  retained  for  their 
own  use  not  being  thus  styled).  The  term 
seems  to  stand  in  a narrower  sense  in  Neb.  x,  37 ; xii, 
44;  xiii,  3 [see  Firstling],  and  the  Talmudists  so  call 
onfv  the  agricultural  first-fruits  appropriate  to  human 
use,  together  with  the  Levitical  tenths  (see  the  tract 
Tentmoih  in  the  Mislina,  i, 6).  Heave-offerings  are  coup- 
led with  lirst-fruits  in  Ezek.  xx,  40,  and  with  tithes  in 
Mai.  iii,8.  In  Ezek.  xlv,  I ; xlviii,  8 sq.,  12, 20  sq.,  the 
same  word  is  applied  to  that  portion  of  the  Holy  Land 
which  is  represented  as  set  apart  for  the  maintenance 
of  the  sanctuary  and  the  priests.  For  the  care  of  all 
such  contributions,  as  well  as  for  voluntary  offerings  and 
tithes  in  general,  a special  class  of  officers  was  (from 
the  time  of  king  Hezekiah)  detailed,  of  whom  a higher 
priest  had  the  superintendence  (2  Chron.  xxi,  11,  12, 
14 ; Nch.  xii,  44 ; xiii,  5).  Heave-offerings  could  be 
used  or  consumed  only  by  the  priests  and  their  chil- 
dren (Numb,  xviii,  19;  Lev.  xxii,  10).  Later  regula- 
tions are  detailed  in  the  Talmudical  tract  Terumoth. — 
Winer,  i,  470.  Compare  Wave-offering. 

Heave-shoulder  (i”i1S!Hn  pi'j,  Sept.  /3p«x«W 
capaipipaToc)  is  the  name  applied  to  the  (right)  shoul- 
der that  fell  to  the  priests  in  the  presentation  of  animals 
as  a thank-offering  (Lev.  vii,  34 ; Numb,  vi,  20;  xviii, 
18),  which  could  be  eaten  only  by  such  of  their  families 
as  were  in  a ceremonially  clean  state  (Lev.  x,  14).  See 
Offering. 

Hebard,  Elijah,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister. 
He  was  born  at  Coxsaekic,  N.  Y.,  Sept.  8, 1788 ; was  con- 
verted at  thirteen;  entered  the  New  York  Conference  in 
May,  1811;  in  1819  was  appointed  to  New  Haven;  in 
1820  and  21  to  New  York;  in  1834  was  transferred  to 
( ienesee  Conference,  and  stationed  at  Rochester;  was 
presiding  cider  on  Ontario  District  in  1837-40;  in  1846 
he  superannuated ; and  died  at  Geneva,  N.  Y.,  Jan.  25, 
1858.  He  was  a diligent  student,  a sound  theologian, 
and  a good  scholar  in  Greek  and  Hebrew. — Minutes  of 
Conferences , vii,  205. 

He'ber,  the  name  of  seven  men,  with  a difference 
of  orthography  in  the  original.  See  also  Ebeu. 

1.  Ebkr  (II eb.  E'ber,  one  of  the  other  side,  i.  e. 

of  the  river,  q.  d.  immigrant;  Sept."E/3fp  and  "Efitp. 
Yulg.  Hebei-),  son  of  Salah,  who  became  the  father  of 
I ‘cleg  at  the  age  of  34  years,  and  died  at  the  age  of  4G4 
(Gen.  x,  24;  xi,  14;  1 Chron.  i,  25).  His  name  occurs 
in  the  genealogy  of  Christ  (Luke  iii,  35,  ’E/3tp,  “ He- 
ber"). B.C.  2448-1984.  There  is  a degree  of  interest 
connected  with  him  from  the  notion,  which  the  Jews 
themselves  entertain,  that  the  name  of  Hebrews,  applied 
to  them,  was  derived  from  this  alleged  ancestor  of  Abra- 
ham. No  historical  ground  appears  why  this  name 
should  be  derived  from  him  rather  than  from  any  other 
personage  that  occurs  in  the  catalogue  of  Shem’s  de- 
scendants; but  there  are  so  much  stronger  objections  to 
every  other  hypothesis,  that  this,  perhaps,  is  still  the 
most  probable  of  any  which  have  yet  been  started.  (See 
t roseuius,  (leschichte  der  Heb.Sprache  nnd Sclirift, p.  II.) 
Hence  i(  the  children  of  liber"  (“p"  “:2,  Gen.  x,  21), 
and  simply  in  poetry  Kber  ("C^Numb.  xxiv,24;  Sept. 
'ii/3iJotoj,Yulg.  Hebreei),  i.q.  Hebrews  (2"~2").  Sev- 
eral other  persons  of  this  (Ileb.)  name  occur,  but  no 
others  are  anywhere  Anglicized  “ Ilober.” 

2.  “ Eukr”  (same  I lob.  word  as  above;  Sept.  'lutftijd, 
Yulg.  Hi  her),  the  last-named  of  the  seven  chiefs  of  the 
Gadites  in  Baslmu  (1  Chron.  v,  13,  where  the  name  is 
Anglicized  “Holier”).  B.C.  between  1612  and  1093. 

3.  Kber  (same  Hebrew  word  as  above;  Sept,  ‘ilfitjc, 
Yulg.  Heber),  apparently  one  of  the  sons  of  Shasliak,  and 
a chief  of  the  tribe  of  benjamin  (I  Chron.  viii,  22,  where 
the  name  is  Anglicized  “ Ileber”).  B.C.  ante  598. 


4.  “Heber”  (Che’ her,  “CH, community,  as  in  Hos.  vi, 
9;  Prov.  xxi,  9;  or  a spelt,  as  in  Deut.  xviii,  11;  Isa. 
xlvii,  9, 12 ; Sept.  Xofiop,  Xoflip,  X«/Jtp),  son  of  Beriah, 
and  grandson  of  Asher  (Gen.  xlvi,  17;  1 Chron.  vii,  31, 
32).  B.C.  apparently  ante  1873.  Ilis  descendants  are 
called  IIeberites  (Heb.  Chebri',  ‘Hpn,  Sept.  Xo(3epi, 
Numb,  xxvi,  45,  where  the  name  of  the  progenitor  is 
written  *"Cn). 

5.  “ Heber”  (same  Heb.  word  as  last,  Sept.  Xdj3(p , 
Yulg.  Haber),  “ a descendant  of  Hobab,  which  latter  was 
son  of  Jethro,  and  brother  of  the  wife  of  Moses.  His 
wife  was  the  Jael  who  slew  Sisera  (B.C.  1409),  and  he  is 
called  Ileber  the  Kenite  (Judg.  iv,  11, 17;  v, 24),  which 
seems  to  have  been  a name  for  the  whole  family  (Judg. 
i,  16).  Heber  appears  to  have  lived  separate  from  the 
rest  of  the  Kenites,  leading  a patriarchal  life  amid  his 
tents  and  flocks.  He  must  have  been  a person  of  some 
consequence,  from  its  being  stated  that  there  was  peace 
between  the  house  of  Heber  and  the  powerful  king  Ja- 
bin.  At  the  time  the  history  brings  him  under  our  no- 
tice, his  camp  was  in  the  plain  of  Zaanaim,  near  Kedesh, 
in  Naphtali”  (Kitto).  See  Jael;  Kenite. 

6.  “Heber”  (same  Heb.  word  as  last,  Sept.  ’A/3«p), 
apparently  a son  of  Mered  (of  Judah)  by  Jehndijah,  and 
“father”  of  Soclio  (1  Chron.  iv,  18).  B.C.  post  1612. 
See  Mered. 

7.  “ Heber”  (same  Heb.  word  as  last,  Sept.  ’A/3 ip), 
one  of  the  “sons”  of  Elpaal,  and  a chief  of  the  tribe  of 
Benjamin  (I  Chron.  viii,  17).  B.C.  apparently  cir.  598. 

Heber,  Reginald,  bishop  of  Calcutta,  was  bom  at 
Malpas,  Cheshire,  April  21, 1783.  He  gave  early  indi- 
cations of  poetical  talent.  At  thirteen  he  was  placed  in 
the  school  of  a clergyman  near  London ; in  November, 
1800,  he  was  entered  at  Brasenose  College,  Oxford,  and 
in  the  same  year  he  gained  the  prize  for  Latin  verse.  In 
the  spring  of  1803  he  wrote  his  prize  poem,  Palestine , 
which  has  obtained  a permanent  place  in  English  liter- 
ature. In  1804  he  became  a fellow  of  All  Souls.  About 
the  middle  of  1805,  in  company  with  Mr.  John  Thornton, 
he  set  out  on  a Continental  tour,  and  spent  a year  trav- 
elling through  Russia,  the  Crimea,  II  ungary,  Austria, 
and  Prussia.  In  1807  he  took  orders,  and  was  instituted 
by  his  brother  Richard  to  the  family  living  at  Hodnet. 
Here,  as  lie  himself  described,  he  was  in  a “half-way 
situation  between  a parson  ami  a squire.”  “While  dis- 
charging the  duties  of  his  parish  with  great  fidelity,  he 
was  ardently  devoted  to  the  pursuits  of  literature.  He 
was  a frequent  contributor  to  the  Quarterly  Review  from 
its  commencement.  In  1812  he  commenced  the  prepa- 
ration of  a Dictionary  of  the  Bible,  on  which  he  labored 
with  much  delight;  but  other  duties  compelled  him  to 
suspend  this  work,  and  no  part  of  it  was  ever  published. 
In  the  same  year  he  published  a small  volume  of  Hymns 
adapted  to  the  Weekly  Church  Service  (new  ed.  London, 
1838,  12mo).  The  composition  of  his  Hymns,  with  a 
view  of  improving  the  psalmody  and  devotional  poetry 
used  in  churches,  was  also  a favorite  recreation.  He 
was  an  elegant  versifier,  and  continued  to  indulge  his 
poetical  talents  even  while  engaged  in  visiting  his  dio- 
cese in  India.  He  had  a great  distaste  for  controver- 
sial theology,  and  only  once  was  engaged  in  a discus- 
sion of  this  kind,  in  reply  to  what  he  conceived  were 
the  unwarrantable  imputations  of  a wTiter  in  the  Brit- 
ish Critic.  His  political  views  were  those  of  the  High- 
Church  and  Tory  party,  but  quite  devoid  of  bitterness. 
In  1815  he  was  appointed  Bampton  lecturer,  and  the 
subject  he  selected  was  The  Personality  and  Office  of  the 
Christian  Comforter  (2d  ed.  Lond.  1818,  8vo).  In  1817, 
Dr.  Luxmore,  the  bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  appointed  Ileber 
to  a stall  in  that  cathedral,  at  the  request  of  his  father- 
in-law  the  dean.  In  1819  he  edited  the  works  of  bishop 
Jeremy  Taylor  (15  vols.  8vo,  with  Life  of  Taylor).  In 
April,  1822,  he  was  elected  preacher  of  Lincoln’s  Inn,  for 
which  he  had  formerly  been  an  unsuccessful  candidate.” 
: hi  December  of  that  year,  the  see  of  Calcutta,  vacated 
| by  the  death  of  bishop  Middleton,  was  offered  to  him. 


129 


HEBREW 


HEBER 

« Twice  the  offer  was  declined  on  account  of  his  wife  and 
child,  but  immediately  after  the  second  refusal  lie  wrote 
(Jail.  12.  1823)  stating  his  willingness  to  go  to  India. 
He  congratulated  himself  upon  the  fact  that  no  worldly 
motives  led  him  to  this  decision.  The  prospects  of  use- 
fulness in  so  grand  a field  as  India  overbore  all  pecuni- 
ary considerations,  and  they  had  no  influence  in  deter- 
mining his  conduct  when  the  proposition  of  going  to 
that  country  was  first  made  to  him.  Besides,  he  had 
often  expressed  his  liking  for  such  a sphere  of  action, 
and  he  had  “ a lurking  fondness  for  all  which  belongs 
to  India  or  Asia.”  On  the  22d  of  April  he  saw  Ilodnet 
for  the  last  time,  and,  after  having  been  consecrated,  he 
embarked  for  his  diocese  on  the  16th  of  June,  1823. 
The  diocese  of  Calcutta  extended  at  this  time  over  the 
whole  of  India,  and  embraced  Ceylon,  the  Mauritius, 
and  Australasia.  In  India  the  field  of  the  bishop’s  la- 
bors was  tliree  times  larger  than  Great  Britain  and  Ire- 
land. The  number  of  chaplains  who  constituted  his 
staff  at  Bengal  was  fixed  at  twenty-eight,  hut  this 
number  was  never  completed,  and  of  the  number  who 
were  appointed  several  were  on  furlough.  The  bishop 
had  no  council  to  assist  him,  was  required  to  act  on  his 
own  responsibility,  and  to  write  almost  every  official 
document  with  liis  own  hand.  On  the  15th  of  June, 
1824,  bishop  Heber  began  the  visitation  of  his  vast  dio- 
cese. He  visited  nearly  every  station  of  importance  in 
the  upper  provinces  of  Bengal  and  north  of  Bombay, 
and  after  an  absence  from  Calcutta  of  about  eleven 
months,  during  which  he  had  seldom  slept  out  of  his 
cabin  or  tent,  he  arrived  at  Bombay.  The  journal 
which  he  kept  during  his  visitation  (published  under 
the  title  Narrative  of  a Journey  in  Upper  India,  Lond. 
1820,  3 vols.  8vo,  since  reprinted  in  Murray’s  Home  and 
Colonial  Library')  shows  the  extent  of  his  observations 
on  general  subjects,  and  the  graphic  power  which  he 
possessed  of  describing  the  novel  scenes  in  which  he 
was  placed.  From  April  to  August  he  remained  at 
Bombay  to  investigate  and  superintend  the  interests  of 
the  western  portion  of  his  diocese.  On  the  loth  of  Au- 
gust he  sailed  for  Ceylon,  and  after  remaining  there 
some  time  he  proceeded  to  Calcutta,  which  he  reached 
on  the  21st  of  October.  If  it  had  been  possible  to  have 
educated  his  children  in  India,  he  was  now  prepared,  he 
states,  to  end  his  days  among  the  objects  of  his  solici- 
tude. In  February,  1826,  he  left  Calcutta  for  Madras 
to  visit  the  southern  provinces.  On  the  1st  of  April 
he  arrived  at  Tricliinopoli,  and  on  the  3d,  after  investi- 
gating the  state  of  the  mission  and  confirming  fifteen 
natives,  on  whom  he  bestowed  the  episcopal  benedic- 
tion in  the  Tamul  language,  he  retired  to  use  a cold 
bath,  in  which  he  was  found  dead  about  half  an  hour 
afterwards.  Within  less  than  three  weeks  he  would 
have  completed  his  forty-third  year.  The  candor,  mod- 
esty, and  simplicity  of  bishop  Ileber’s  manners,  his  un- 
wearied earnestness,  and  his  mild  and  steady  zeal,  com- 
bined with  his  talents  and  attainments,  had  inspired 
veneration  and  respect  not  only  among  the  European, 
but  the  native  population  of  India”  (English  Cyclopaedia, 
s.  v.).  In  theology  he  was  an  Arininian.  His  whole 
life,  after  his  elevation  to  the  episcopate,  was  devoted 
to  its  great  duties.  He  had  a profound  faith  in  the  fun- 
damental doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  and  of  their  adaptation 
to  the  heathen.  His  heart  daily  breathed  the  most  ear- 
nest wishes  for  the  diffusion  of  its  precious  blessings.  His 
tastes  and  pursuits  were  all  subordinated  to  that  grand 
object,  and,  had  he  been  spared  to  the  usual  term  of  life, 
there  is  no  doubt  that  a career,  begun  in  the  spirit  and 
prosecuted  on  the  system  of  itinerancy  he  had  adopted, 
would  have  yielded  a rich  harvest  of  spiritual  fruit  to 
the  Lord  of  his  vineyard.  Besides  the  works  above  men- 
tioned, he  published  Parish  Sermons  (Lond.  1844, 5th  ed. 
2 vols.  8vo).  His  Poetical  1 1 rorks  are  printed  in  various 
editions.  See  Life  of  Heber,  by  his  Widow  (Lond.  1830, 
2 vols.  4to) ; Robinson,  Last  Days  of  Heber  (1830,  8vo) ; 
Memoir  of  Heber,  abridged  from  the  large  ed.  (Boston, 
1856, 12mo) ; Krohn,  11.' s Leben  u.  Nachrichten  fiber  In- 
IV.— I 


dien  (Berlin,  1831,  2 vols.) ; Quarterly  Review  (London), 
xliii,  366;  Edinburgh  Review,  lii,  431 ; Villemain,  Revue 
ties  deux  Monies,  Dec.  15, 1857 ; Herzog,  Real-Encyklop. 
xix,  606. 

He'berite  (Numb,  xxvi,  45).  See  Heber,  4. 

Hebrew  (Heb.76nv,“i’n2y,plur.C!^‘n25  or 
Exod. iii,  18;  fern. 3 3,“ Bebrewess,’ ” plur.  nvnsr, 
Greek  'EfipaTot;),  a designation  of  the  people  of  Israel, 
used  first  of  their  progenitor  Abraham  (Gen.  xiv,  13 ; 

; Sept,  rig  irtpary).  This  name  is  never  in  Scripture  ap- 
plied to  the  Israelites  except  when  the  speaker  is  a for- 
eigner (Gen.  xxxix,  14, 17 ; xli,  12 ; Exod.  i,  16 ; ii,  6 ; 1 
Sam.  iv,  6,  9,  etc.),  or  when  Israelites  speak  of  them- 
selves to  one  of  another  nation  (Gen.  xl,  15 ; Exod.  i,  19 ; 
Jonah  i,  9,  etc.),  or  when  they  are  contrasted  with  other 
peoples  (Gen.  xliii,  32;  Exod.  i,  3,  7,  15 ; Deut.  xv,  12 ; 
l Sam.  xiii,  3,  7).  See  Gesenius,  Thes.  lleb.  s.  v.  (The 
only  apparent  exception  is  Jer.  xxxiv,  9 ; but  here  there 
is  probably  such  an  implied  contrast  between  the  Jews 
and  other  peoples  as  would  bring  the  usage  under  the 
last  case.)  By  the  Greek  and  Latin  writers  this  is  the 
name  by  which  the  descendants  of  Jacob  are  designated 
when  they  are  not  called  Jews  (Pausan.  v.  5,2;  vi,  24, 
6;  Plut.  Sympos.  iv,  6,  1 ; Tacit.  Hist,  v,  1);  and  Jose- 
phus, who  affects  classical  peculiarities,  constantly  uses 
it.  In  the  N.  T.  we  find  the  same  contrast  between  He- 
brew's and  foreigners  (Acts  vi,  1 ; Phil,  iii,  5) : the  He- 
brew language  is  distinguished  from  all  others  (Luke 
xxiii, 38;  John  v,  2;  xix,  13;  Acts  xxi,  40;  xxvi,  14; 
Rev.  ix,  11);  w'hile  in  2 Cor.  xi,  22  the  w’ord  is  used  as 
only  second  to  Israelite  in  the  expression  of  national  pe- 
culiarity. On  these  facts  two  opposing  hypotheses  have 
been  raised ; the  one  that  Israelite  or  Jew  was  the  name 
by  which  the  nation  designated  itself  (just  as  the  Welsh 
call  themselves  Cymry,  though  in  speaking  of  themselves 
to  a Saxon  they  would  probably  use  the  name  11  Ws/i) ; 
the  other  is  that  “ Hebrew”  is  a national  name,  merely 
indicative  of  the  people  as  a people,  while  Israelite  is  a 
sacred  or  religious  name  appropriate  to  them  as  the 
chosen  people  of  God.  This  latter  opinion  Gesenius  dis- 
misses as  “without  foundation”  (Lexicon  by  Robinson, 
s.  v.),  but  it  has  received  the  deliberate  sanction  of 
Ewald  (Ausfuhrl.  Lehrb.  tier  lleb.  Spr.  p.  18,  5th  ed.). 

Derivation  of  the  Name. — I.  From  Abram,  A bred,  and 
by  euphony  Hebrcd  (August.,  Ambrose).  Displaying,  as 
it  does,  the  utmost  ignorance  of  the  language,  this  deri- 
vation was  never  extensively  adopted,  and  was  even  re- 
tracted by  Augustine  (Retract.  16).  The  euphony  al- 
leged by  Ambrose  is  quite  imperceptible,  and  there  is  no 
parallel  in  the  Lat.  meridie—medidie. 

II.  According  to  the  sacred  writer,  Hebrew,  is 

a derivative  from  "l  33,  Eber,  the  ancestor  of  Abraham ; 
at  least  the  same  persons  who  are  called  Hebrews  are 
called  “;33  *’23,  sons  of  Eber  (Gen.  x,  21);  and  “133, 
Eber  (Numb. xxi v,  24);  and  this  is  tantamount  to  a der- 
ivation of  the  name  Hebrew  from  Eber.  In  support  of 
this,  it  may  be  urged  that  *n33  is  the  proper  form 
which  a patronymic  from  “33  w'oidd  assume;  accord- 
ing to  the  analogy  of  “13St1'3,  a Moabite,  "'-“I,  a Danite, 
“'3^3,  a Calebite,  etc.  (Hiller,  Onomast.  Sac.  c.  xiv,  p.  231 
sq.).  What  adds  much  force  to  this  argument  is  the  ev- 
ident antithesis  in  Gen.  xiv,  13,  between  “1"i33f1  E“3X 
and  ■''VEXn  ; the  former  of  these  is  as  evidently 

a patronymic  as  the  latter.  This  view  is  supported 
by  Josephus,  Suidas,  Bochart,Vatablus,  Drusius,  Vossius, 
Buxtorf,  Hottinger,  Leusden,Whiston,  and  Baner.  T he- 
odoret  (Qucest.  in  Gen.  61)  urges  against  it  that  the  He- 
brew's w'ere  not  the  only  descendants  of  Eber,  and,  there- 
fore, could  not  appropriate  his  name;  and  the  objection 
has  often  been  repeated.  To  meet  it,  recourse  has  been 
had  to  the  suggestion,  first  adduced,  we  believe,  by  Ibn 
Ezra  (Comment,  ad  Jon.  i,  9\  that  the  descendants  of 
Abraham  retained  the  name  Hebrew  from  Eber,  because 


HEBREW 


130 


HEBREW 


they  alone  of  his  descendants  retained  the  faith  which 
lie  held.  This  may  be,  but  we  are  hardly  entitled  to 
assume  it  in  order  to  account  for  the  fact  before  us.  It 
is  better  to  throw  the  onus  probandi  on  the  objector,  and 
to  demand  of  him,  in  our  ignorance  of  what  determined 
the  use  of  such  patronymics  in  one  line  of  descent  and 
not  in  others,  that  he  should  show  cause  why  it  is  in- 
conceivable that  Abraham  might  have  a good  and  suffi- 
cient reason  for  wishing  to  perpetuate  the  memory'  of 
his  descent  from  Eber, which  did  not  apply  to  the  other 
descendants  of  that  patriarch.  Why  might  not  one  race 
of  the  descendants  of  Eber  call  themselves  by  pre-emi- 
nence sons  of  Eber,  just  as  one  race  of  the  descendants 
of  Abraham  called  themselves  by'  pre-eminence  sons  of 
Abraham.  But  Eber,  it  is  objected,  is  a name  of  no 
note  in  the  history';  we  know  nothing  of  him  to  entitle 
him  to  be  selected  as  the  person  after  whom  a people 
should  call  themselves.  But  is  our  ignorance  to  be  the 
measure  of  the  knowledge  of  Abraham  and  his  descend- 
ants on  such  a point?  Because  v:e  know  nothing  to 
distinguish  Eber,  does  it  follow  that  they  knew  nothing? 
Certain  it  is  that  he  was  of  sufficient  importance  to  re- 
flect a glory  on  his  father  Shem,  whose  highest  desig- 
nation is  “ the  father  of  all  the  children  of  Eber”  (Gen. 
x,21);  and  certain  it  is  that  his  name  lingered  for  many 
generations  in  the  region  where  he  resided,  for  it  was  as 
“Eber”  that  the  Mesopotamian  prophet  knew  the  de- 
scendants of  Jacob,  and  spoke  of  them  when  they  first 
made  their  appearance  in  warlike  force  on  the  borders 
of  the  promised  land  (Numb,  xxiv,  24). 

On  the  other  hand,  it  is  contended  that  the  passage 
Gen.  x,  21  is  not  so  much  genealogical  as  ethnograph- 
ical; and  in  this  view  it  seems  that  the  words  are  in- 
tended to  contrast  Shem  with  TIam  and  Japhet,  and 
especially'  with  the  former.  Now  Babel  is  plainly  fixed 
as  the  extreme  east  limit  of  the  posterity  of  Ilam  (ver. 
10),  from  whose  land  Nimrod  went  out  into  Assvria 
(ver.  1 1,  margin  of  A.  Vers.):  in  the  next  place,  Egypt 
(ver.  13)  is  mentioned  as  the  western  limit  of  the  same 
great  race;  and  these  two  extremeshaving  been  ascer- 
tained, the  historian  proceeds  (ver.  15-10)  to  fill  up  his 
ethnographic  sketch  with  the  intermediate  tribes  of  the 
Canaanites.  In  short,  in  ver.  6-20  we  have  indications 
of  three  geographical  points  which  distinguish  the  pos- 
terity of  1 lam,  viz.  Egypt,  Palestine,  and  Babylon.  At 
the  last-mentioned  city,  at  the  river  Euphrates,  their 
proper  occupancy,  unaffected  hv  the  exceptional  move- 
ment of  Asslmr,  terminated,  and  at  the  same  point  that 
of  the  descendants  of  Shem  began.  Accordingly,  the 
sharpest  contrast  that  could  lie  devised  is  obtained  by 
generally  classing  these  latter  nations  as  those  beyond 
the  river  Euphrates;  and  the  words  “father  of  all  the 
children  of  Eber,”  i.  e.  father  of  the  nations  to  the  east  of 
the  Euphrates,  find  an  intelligible  place  in  the  context. 

It  must  also  be  confessed  that  in  the  genealogical 
scheme  in  Gen.  xi,  10-26,  it  does  not  appear  that  the 
Jews  thought  of  Eber  as  a source  primary,  or  even  sec- 
ondary' of  the  national  descent.  The  genealogy  neither 
starts  from  him,  nor  in  its  uniform  sequence  docs  it  rest 
upon  him  with  any  emphasis.  There  is  nothing  to  dis- 
tinguish Eber  above  Arphaxad,  Peleg,  or  Scrug.  Like 
them,  he  is  but  a link  in  the  chain  by  which  Shem  is 
connected  with  Abraham.  Indeed,  the  tendency  of  the 
Iraelitish  retrospect  is  to  stop  at  Jacob.  It  is  with  Ja- 
cob that  their  history  as  a nation  begins:  heyond  Jacob 
they  held  their  ancestry  in  common  with  the  Edomites; 
beyond  Isaac  they'  were  in  danger  of  being  confounded 
with  the  Islunaelites.  The  predominant  figure  of  the 
emphatically  Hebrew  Abraham  might  tempt  them  be- 
yond those  points  of  affinity  with  other  races,  so  distaste- 
tul,  so  anti-national;  but  it  is  almost  inconceivable  that 
they  would  voluntarily  originate  and  perpetuate  an  ap- 
pellation of  themselves  which  landed  them  on  a plat- 
form of  ancestry  where  they  met  the  whole  population 
of  Arabia  (Gen.  x,  25,  30). 

IB.  Hence  others  (as  Jerome,  Theodoret,  Origen, 
Chrysost.,  Arias  Moutanus,  K.  Bechai,  Paul  Burg.,  Mun- 


ster, Grotius,  Scaliger,  Selden,  Rosenm.,  Gesenius,  and 
Eichhom)  prefer  tracing  11  “1 22  to  the  verb  *122,  to  pass 
over,  or  the  noun  *122,  the  region  or  counti'y  beyond. 
Byr  those  who  favor  the  former  etymology,  “ Hebrew”  is 
regarded  as  equivalent  to  “the  man  who  passed  over;” 
by  those  who  favor  the  latter,  it  is  taken  to  mean  “the 
man  from  the  region  beyond;”  and  imder  both  suppo- 
sitions it  is  held  to  be  applied  by  the  Canaanites  to 
Abraham  as  having  crossed  the  Euphrates,  or  come 
from  the  region  beyond  the  Euphrates  to  Canaan.  Of 
these  etymiologies  the  former  is  now  generally  aban- 
doned; it  is  felt  that  the  supposition  that  the  crossing 
of  the  Euphrates  was  such  an  miparallelcd  achievement 
as  to  fix  on  him  who  accomplished  it  a name  that  should 
descend  to  his  posterity',  and  become  a national  appel- 
lation, is  somewhat  too  violent  to  be  maintained ; and, 
besides,  as  the  verb  *“,22  signifies  to  pass  from  this  side 
to  that,  not  from  that  side  to  this,  it  would  not  be  the 
term  applied  by'  the  people  of  Canaan  to  designate  the 
act  of  one  who  had  come  from  the  other  side  of  the  Eu- 
phrates to  them.  The  other  etymology  has  more  in  its 
favor.  It  is  that  sanctioned  by  the  Greek  translators 
(Sept,  o Tncx'cTi/c,  Aq.  tt epaiTtjg)",  it  is  in  accordance 
with  the  usage  of  the  phrase  '“insr!  “IS!?,  w'liich  was 
employed  to  designate  the  region  beyond  the  Euphra- 
tes (Josh,  xxiv,  2,  3;  2 Sam.  x,  16;  1 Chron.  xix,  16); 
and  it  is  not  improbable  that  Abraham,  coming  among 
the  Canaanites  from  beyond  the  Euphrates,  might  be 
designated  by  them  “the  man  from  the  region  beyond,” 
just  as  Europeans  might  call  an  American  “a  trans- 
atlantic.” But,  though  Bleek  very'  confidently'  pro- 
nounces this  view  “without  doubt  the  right  one”  (Ein- 
leitmgins  A.  T.  p.  72),  it  is  open  to  serious,  if  not  fatal 
objections. 

1,  There  is  no  instance  of  *122  by  itself  denoting  the 
region  beyond  the  Euphrates,  or  any  other  river;  the 
phrase  invariably  used  is  “n:n  “12“.  RoseumiUler, 
following  Hyde  (Histor.  Relig.  let.  Pers.  p.  51),  seeks  to 
supply  this  desiderated  instance  by  taking  *122  as  ep- 
exegetical  of  *1V.2N  in  Numb,  xxiv,  24  — “aflligant  As- 
syrian! et  totani  transflnvialem  regionem.”  But  the 
learned  writer  has  in  his  zeal  overlooked  the  second 
112,  which  quite  precludes  his  exegesis.  Knobel  avoids 
this  error  by  simply  taking  mil* S<=  Assyria,  and  “22 
=Mesopotamia;  hut  in  this  case  it  is  the  proper  name 
*122,  Eber , and  not  the  preposition  *122,  irons,  which 
is  in  question.  2.  If  “l“l22  was  the  proper  designation 
of  those  who  lived  on  the  other  side  of  the  Euphrates, 
we  should  find  that  name  applied  to  such  as  continued 
to  dwell  there,  not  to  a race  descended  from  one  who 
had  left  that  region  never  to  return.  3.  Though  Abra- 
ham, as  having  been  originally'  a transfluvian,  might  be 
so  called  by  the  Canaanites,  it  is  improbable  that  they 
should  have  extended  this  name  to  his  posterity,  to 
whom  it  in  no  sense  applied.  No  one  would  think  of 
continuing  the  term  “transatlantic”  to  persons  born  in 
Britain  on  the  ground  that  a remote  ancestor  had  come 
from  across  the  Atlantic  to  settle  in  that  country ! As 
to  the  sanction  which  this  etymology  derives  from  the 
Sept.,  no  great  weight  can  lie  attached  to  that  when  we 
remember  how  often  these  translators  have  erred  in  this 
way;  and  also  that  they  have  given  t/Spaiorg  as  the 
rendering  of  *122  “i2  in  Numb,  xxiv,  24;  “Plus  vice 
simplici  hallucinati  sunt  interpretes  Gra?ci  eorum  ut  no- 
bis standum  eadendumve  non  sit  antoritate”  (Carpzov, 
Crit.  Sac.  1 . T.  p.  171).  )Ve  niav  add  that  the  author- 
ity of  the  Sept,  and  Aquila  on  such  a point  is  urged 
with  a bad  grace  by  those  who  treat  with  contempt  the 
etymologies  of  the  Hebrew  text  as  resting  on  mere 
Jewish  tradition;  if  a Jewish  tradition  of  the  time  of 
Moses  is  subject  to  suspicion,  a fortiori  is  one  of  the  age 
of  Ptolemy  Lagi  and  of  Alexandrian  origin.  Ewald 
pronounces  this  derivation  “ quite  uncertain.”  4.  This 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


HEBREW  OF  THE  HEBREWS  1 

derivation  is  open  to  the  strong  objection  that  Hebrew 
nouns  ending  in  i are  either  patronymics  or  gentilic 
nouns  (Buxtorf,  Louden).  This  is  a technical  objec- 
tion which — though  fatal  to  the  irfparrjg,  or  appellative 
derivation  as  traced  back  to  the  verb— clues  not  apply 
to  the  same  as  referred  to  the  noun  132.  The  analogy 
of  Galli,  Angli,  Hispani,  derived  from  Gallia,  Anglia, 
Ilispania  (Leusden),  is  a complete  blunder  in  ethnogra- 
phy ; and,  at  any  rate,  it  would  confirm  rather  than  de- 
stroy the  derivation  from  the  noun. 

IV.  Parkhurst,  whose  works  occasionally  present  sug- 
gestions worth  consideration,  has  advanced  the  opinion 
that  *n33  is  a derivation  from  the  verb  133  in  the 
sense  of  passing  through  or  from  place  to  place  (compare 
Gen.xviii,5;  Exod.  xxxii,  27 ; Ezek.xxxv,7;  2 Chron. 
xxx,  10,  etc.);  so  that  its  meaning  would  be  a sojourn- 
er or  passer  through , as  distinct  from  a settler  in  the 
land.  This  undoubtedly  exactly  describes  the  condition 
of  Abraham  and  his  immediate  descendants,  and  might 
very  naturally  be  assumed  by  them  as  a designation ; 
for,  as  the  apostle  says,  “they  confessed  they  were 
strangers  and  pilgrims  on  the  earth”  (Heb.  xi,  13).  In 
this  case  the  statement  in  Gen.  x,  21 ; Numb,  xxiv,  24, 
must  be  understood  as  referring  to  the  posterity  of  Eber 
generally,  and  not  to  the  Hebrews  specially  or  exclu- 
sively. The  most  serious  objection  to  Parkhurst’s  sug- 
gestion arises  from  the  form  of  the  word  ‘'“33.  A 
word  from  133,  to  convey  the  meaning  of  transitor,  or 
one  passing  through , we  should  expect  to  find  in  the 
form  1313  or  133. 

On  the  whole,  the  derivation  of  Ihri  (Hebrew)  from 
Eber  seems  to  have  most  in  its  favor  and  least  against 
it.  (See  on  this  side  Augustine,  Be  Civit.  Dei,v i,  11; 
Buxtorf,  Biss,  iii,  27 ; Bocliart,  Phaleg,  ii,  14 ; Hottinger, 
Thes.  Phil . p.  4 ; Leusden,  Phil.  Heb.  Diss.  xxi ; Morinus, 
Be  Ling.  Primtev.  p.  G4;  Pfeiffer,  BiJJ.  Script.  Locc., 
Opp.  p.  49;  Carpzov,  Crit.  Sac.  p.  105;  Ilezel,  Gesch.  el. 
llebr.  Spr.  sec.  4;  Ewald , AnsJuhrL  Lehrbuch  tier  lleb. 
Gram.  p.  19,  5th  edit.;  Geschichte  ties  P.  Israel,  i,  334; 
Hnvernick,  Introil.  to  the  0.  Test.  p.  125;  Baumgarten, 
T/ic-ol.  Comment,  zuni  Pent,  ad  loc.  On  the  other  side, 
see  Theodoret,  Qutest.  in  Gen.  10;  Chrvsost.,  Horn.  35  in 
Gen. ; Selden,  Be  Biis  Si/ris,  p.  13 ; Walton,  Prolegg.  p. 
15  sq.,  in  Dathe’s  edit.  p.  08;  Gussetius,  Comment.  Ling. 
Ileb.  Diss.  Proem,  p.  7 ; Hichaelis,  Spicileg.  Geogr.  Heb. 
Ext.  ii,  00 ; Gesenius,  Gesch.  tier  Heb.  Spr.  p.  1 1 ; Gram- 
mar, sec.  2.) — Kitto;  Smith.  See  Jew. 

HEBREW  OF  THE  HEBREWS  ('E/3pmo?  1% 
*E/3pai'ciU',  emphatically  a Hebrew,  one  who  was  so  by 
both  parents,  and  that  by  a long  series  of  ancestors, 
without  admixture  of  Gentile  or  even  proselyte  blood. 
In  this  way  the  Hebrews  formed  a superlative  of  inten- 
sity— as  “ holy  of  holies,”  i.  e.  the  most  holy  place ; 
“vanity  of  vanities,”  i.  e.  exceedingly  vain;  “heaven 
of  heavens,”  i.  e.  the  highest  heaven.  Hence  Paul, 
when  speaking  of  the  ground  of  precedence  which  he 
might  claim  above  the  false  teachers  at  Philippi,  says 
that  “ he  is  a Hebrew  of  the  Hebrews"  (Phil,  iii,  5),  i.  e. 
one  of  full  Hebrew  descent,  and  acquainted  with  the 
Hebrew  language.  Although  he  was  bom  at  Tarsus, 
he  was  brought  up  at  the  feet  of  Gamaliel  in  Jerusalem 
(Acts  xxii,  3).  To  this  same  fact  he  seems  to  appeal 
again  in  a similar  case,  “Are  tlieg  Hebrews  1 so  am  /” 
(2  Cor.  xi,  22).  He  was  a genuine  Hebrew  man  in  every 
important  respect  (Acts  xxi,  39,  40). 

Hebrews,  The  (Acts  vi,  1),  i.  e.  Hebrew-speaking 
Jews,  in  contrast  with  those  speaking  the  Greek  lan- 
guage. See  Hellenist. 

Hebrew  Language,  the  language  of  the  Hebrew 
people;  and  of  the  Old-Testament  Scriptures,  with  tlie 
exception  of  the  few  chapters  •written  in  Chaldee.  See 
Chalhee  Language.  In  treating  this  subject  we  shall 
mainly  avail  ourselves  of  the  articles  in  Fairbaim’s  Dic- 
tionary and  Kitto’s  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v.  (See  Ewald’s  He- 
brew Grammar,  § 1-18, 135-160.) 


In  the  Bible  this  language  is  nowhere  designated  by 
the  name  Hebrew , but  this  is  not  surprising  when  we 
consider  how  rarely  that  name  is  employed  to  designate 
the  nation.  See  Hebrew.  If  we  except  the  terms 
“ lip  of  Canaan"  (‘(3:3  PEb)  in  Isa.  xix,  18— where  the 
diction  is  of  an  elevated  character,  and  is  so  far  no  evi- 
dence that  this  designation  was  the  one  commonly  em- 
ployed— the  only  name  by  which  the  Hebrew  language 
is  mentioned  in  tlie  Old  Testament  is  “Jewish”  (P.*H1  IP, 
used  adverbially,  Jutlaice,  in  Jewish,  2 Kings  xviii,  20, 
28;  Isa.  xxxvi,  11, 13 ; 2 Chron.  xxxii,  18  [in  Nell,  xiii, 
24,  perhaps  the  A r amt  tic  is  meant]),  where  the  feminine 
may  be  explained  as  an  abstract  of  the  last  formation, 
according  to  Ewald’s  llebr.  Gram.  § 344, 457,  or  as  refer- 
ring to  the  usual  gender  of  f'db  understood.  In  a strict 
sense,  however,  “Jewish”  denotes  the  idiom  of  the  king- 
dom of  Judah,  which  became  the  predominant  one  after 
the  deportation  of  the  ten  tribes.  It  is  in  the  Greek 
writings  of  the  later  Jews  that  “Hebrew”  is  first  applied 
to  the  language,  as  in  tlie  ifipdiari  of  the  prologue  to 
Ecclesiasticus,  and  in  the  yhCjatra  riov  'E/Jpniwu  of  Jo- 
sephus. (The  ifipaig  citiXtKroc  of  the  New  Testament 
is  used  in  contradistinction  to  the  idiom  of  the  Hellenist 
Jews,  and  does  not  mean  the  ancient  Hebrew  language, 
but  the  then  vernacular  Aramaic  dialect  of  Palestine.) 
Our  title  to  use  the  designation  Hebrew  language  is 
therefore  founded  on  the  fact  that  the  nation  which 
spoke  this  idiom  was  properly  distinguished  by  the  eth- 
nographical name  of  Hebrews. 

The  Hebrew  language  belongs  to  the  class  of  lan- 
guages called  Shemitic — so  called  because  spoken  chief- 
ly by  nations  enumerated  in  Scripture  among  the  de- 
scendants of  Shorn.  The  Sanscrit,  Persian,  Greek,  Lat- 
in, with  the  Germanic  and  Celtic  languages,  are  the 
principal  members  of  another  large  class  or  group  of 
languages,  to  which  have  been  affixed  the  various  names 
of  Japhetic,  Indo-European,  lndo-Germanic,  and  Aryan. 
This  latter  class  embraces  most  of  the  languages  of  Eu- 
rope, including  of  course  our  own.  The  student,  there- 
fore, who,  besides  mastering  his  own  language,  has  pass- 
ed through  a course  of  Greek,  Latin,  French,  and  Ger- 
man (and  few  of  our  students,  except  with  a professional 
view,  extend  their  linguistic  studies  farther),  has  not,  af- 
ter all  his  labor,  got  beyond  the  limits  of  the  same  class 
of  languages  to  which  bis  mother  tongue  belongs,  and 
of  which  it  forms  one  of  the  most  important  members. 
But  when  lie  passes  to  the  study  of  the  Hebrew  lan- 
guage he  enters  a new  field,  he  observes  new  phenome- 
na, he  traces  the  operation  of  new  laws. 

I.  Characteristics  of  the  Shemitic  Languages,  and  in 
particular  of  the  Hebrew. — 1.  With  respect  to  soumls, 
the  chief  peculiarities  are  the  four  following: 

(1.)  The  predominance  of  guttural  sounds.  The  He- 
brew has  four  or  (we  may  say)  five  guttural  sounds, 
descending  from  the  slender  and  scarcely  perceptible 
throat-breathing  represented  by  the  first  letter  of  the 
alphabet  (X)  through  the  decided  aspirate  n,  to  the 
strong  n and  gurgling  3.  To  these  we  must  add  1, 
which  partakes  largely  of  the  guttural  character.  Nor 
were  these  sounds  sparingly  employed ; on  the  contrary, 
they  were  in  more  frequent  use  than  any  other  class  of 
letters.  In  the  Hebrew  dictionary  the  four  gutturals 
occupy  considerably  more  than  a fourth  part  of  the 
whole  volume,  the  remaining  eighteen  letters  occupy- 
ing considerably  less  than  three  fourths.  This  predom- 
inance of  guttural  sounds  must  have  given  a very  mark- 
ed character  to  the  ancient  Hebrew,  as  it  does  still  to 
the  modern  Arabic. 

(2.)  The  use  of  the  very  strong  letters  3,  3,  p,  which 
may  be  represented  by  It  or  ts,q,  in  pronouncing  which 
the  organ  is  more  compressed  and  the  souud  given  forth 
with  greater  vehemence.  These  letters,  especially  the 
last  two,  are  also  in  frequent  use. 

When  the  Greeks  borrowed  their  alphabet  from  the 
Phoenicians,  they  softened  or  dropped  tnese  strong  let- 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


132 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


tors  ( 3 being  softened  into  6,  and  p being  dropped 
except  as  marks  of  number),  and  changed  the  guttural 
letters  into  the  vowels  a,  f,  r/,  o. 

(3.)  The  Slicmitic  languages  do  not  admit,  like  the 
Indo-European,  of  an  accumulation  or  grouping  of  con- 
sonants around  a single  vowel  sound.  In  such  words  as 
(•raj),  crush , (/rind,  strong,  stretch,  we  find  four,  five,  and 
six  consonants  clustering  around  a single  vowel.  The 
Miemitic  languages  reject  such  groupings,  usually  inter- 
posing a vowel  sound  more  or  less  distinct  after  each 
consonant.  It  is  only  at  the  end  of  a word  that  two 
consonants  may  stand  together  without  any  intermedi- 
ate vowel  sound ; and  even  in  that  case  various  expedi- 
ents are  employed  to  dispense  with  a combination  which 
is  evidently  not  in  accordance  with  the  genius  of  the 
language. 

(•4.)  The  vowels,  although  thus  copiously  introduced, 
arc  nevertheless  kept  in  strict  subordination  to  the  con- 
sonants; so  much  so  that  it  is  only  in  rare  and  excep- 
tional eases  that  any  word  or  syllable  begins  with  a 
vowel.  In  Hebrew  we  have  no  such  syllables  as  ah,  ag, 
ad,  in  which  the  initial  sound  is  a pure  vowel ; but  only 
la, go,  da.  If  Sir  II.  liawlinson  is  correct,  it  would  ap- 
pear that  the  Assyrian  language  differed  from  the  other 
Slicmitic  languages  in  this  particular.  In  his  syllabic 
alphal>et  a considerable  number  of  the  syllables  begin 
with  a vowel. 

If  we  endeavor  to  calculate  the  effect  of  the  foregoing 
peculiarities  on  the  character  of  the  language,  we  can- 
not avoid  the  conclusion  that  the  Slicmitic  languages 
are  of  a more  primitive  type  than  the  European — much 
less  matured, polished,  compacted — the  natural  utterance 
of  a mind  vehement  and  passionate,  impulsive  rather 
than  calmly  deliberative. 

2.  With  respect  to  roots  and  u-ords,  the  Shemitic  lan- 
guages are  distinguished  in  a very  marked  manner: 
(1.)  I>y  the  three-letter  root.  This  is  one  of  the  most 
striking  characteristics  of  these  languages,  as  it  does  not 
appear  that  there  is  any  language  not  belonging  to  this 
class  in  the  formation  of  whose  roots  the  same  law  has 
been  at  work.  It  is  very  difficult  to  ascertain  the  ori- 
gin of  this  singular  phenomenon.  It  may  possibly  be 
regarded  as  a kind  of  equivalent  for  the  compound  roots 
of  other  languages  (which  arc  altogether  wanting  in 
the  Shemitic) ; an  original  two-letter  root  being  enlarged 
and  expanded  into  a greater  or  less  number  of  three-let- 
ter roots,  for  the  purpose  of  giving  expression  to  the  va- 
rious modifications  and  shades  of  the  primitive  root 
idea.  The  attempt  has  indeed  been  made,  and  with  no 
small  measure  of  success,  to  point  out  and  specify  the 
two-letter  roots  from  which  the  existing  three-letter 
roots  have  been  derived ; but  it  has  been  properly  re- 
marked that  such  an  investigation  carries  us  quite  away 
from  the  Shemitic  province.  When  we  reach  the  two- 
letter  root  we  have  left  behind  ns  the  Shemitic  lan- 
guages altogether,  and  drawn  forth  a new  language, 
which  might  be  regarded,  did  we  not  know  that  the 
most  ancient  is  not  always  the  most  simple,  as  the  one 
primeval  language  of  mankind.  By  “ three-letter  roots” 
we  mean  those  having  three  consonants  forming  a dis- 
syllable, and  we  must  except  from  our  remarks  those 
containing  the  so-called  weak  letters, which  assimilate 
themselves  very  strongly  to  the  monosyllabic  roots  of 
primitive  verbs  in  the  Indo-European  group  of  lan- 
guages. See  l’mi.oi.oov,  ('o.miwrativk. 

(2.)  The  consideration  of  the  Hebrew  three-letter  root, 
and  its  possible  growth  out  of  a more  original  two-letter 
root,  leads  on  to  the  notice  of  another  prominent  feature 
of  the  Shemitic  languages,  viz.  the  further  growth  and 
expansion  of  the  three-letter  root  itsel  f into  a variety  o f 
'what  are  called  conjngational forms,  expressing  intensity, 
reflexiveness,  causation,  etc.  A similar  formation  may 
be  traced  in  all  languages;  in  some  non-Sliemitic  lan- 
guages, as  the  Turkish,  it  is  very  largely  and  regularly 
developed  (Max  M idler.  Lectures  on  Science  of  Language, 
p.  3]x,  etc.).  In  English  we  have  examples  in  such 
verbs  as  sit  and  set,  lie  and  lag,  set  being  the  causative 


of  sit,  lag  of  lie  ; or  we  may  say  sit  is  the  reflexive  of  set, 
and  lie  of  lag.  So  in  Latin  sedo  and  sedeo,jacio  and  ja- 
ceo,  etc.,  in  which  latter  root  the  conjugational  forma- 
tion is  still  farther  developed  into  jacto  and  jactito.  But 
what  in  these  languages  is  fragmentary  and  occasional, 
in  Hebrew  and  the  cognate  languages  is  carried  out  and 
expanded  with  fulness  and  regidaritv,  and  consequently 
occupies  a large  space  in  the  Shemitic  grammar.  The 
conjugations  are  of  three  sorts : (a)  Those  expressing  in- 
tensity, repetition,  etc.,  which  are  usually  distinguished 
by  some  change  within  the  root ; (6)  those  expressing 
refexiveness,  causation,  etc.,  which  are  usually  distin- 
guished by  some  addition  to  the  root ; (c)  the  passives, 
distinguished  by  the  presence  of  the  u or  o soimd  in  the 
first  syllable. 

(3.)  Another  prominent  distinction  of  the  Shemitic 
languages  is  the  extent  to  which  modifications  oj'the  root 
idea  are  indicated,  not  by  additions  to  the  root,  but  by 
changes  within  the  root.  “The  Slicmitic  roots,”  says 
Bopp  ( Comparative  Grammar  oj'the  Indo-European 
Tongues,  i,  99),  “on  account  of  their  construction,  pos- 
sess the  most  surprising  capacity  for  indicating  the  sec- 
ondary ideas  of  grammar  by  the  mere  internal  moulding 
of  the  root,  while  the  Sanscrit  roots  at  the  first  gram- 
matical movement  are  compelled  to  assume  external  ad- 
ditions.” These  internal  changes  are  principally  of  two 
sorts : 

(f?)  Vowel  changes.  Nothing  is  more  remarkable  in 
the  Shemitic  languages  than  the  significance  of  their 
vowel  sounds ; the  sharp  a sound,  formed  by  opening  the 
mouth  wide, being  associated  as  a symbol  with  the  idea 
of  activity,  while  the  e and  o sounds  are  the  symbols  of 
rest  and  passiveness.  In  the  Arabic  verb  this  charac- 
teristic is  very  marked,  many  of  the  roots  appearing  un- 
der three  forms,  each  having  a different  vowel,  and  the 
signification  being  modified  in  accordance  with  the  na- 
ture of  that  vowel.  The  same  law  appears  in  the  for- 
mation of  the  passives.  Thus  ke  it  ala — pass,  hitela. 

(h)  Doubling  of  consonants,  usually  of  the  middle  let- 
ter of  the  root.  By  means  of  this  most  simple  and  nat- 
ural device,  the  Shemitic  languages  express  intensity  or. 
repetition  of  action,  and  also  such  qualities  as  prompt  to 
repeated  action,  as  righteous,  merciful,  etc.  By  compar- 
ing this  usage  with  the  expression  of  the  corresponding 
ideas  in  our  own  language,  we  observe  at  once  the  dif- 
ference in  the  genius  of  the  two  languages.  We  say 
merciful , sinful,  i.  e.  full  of  mercy,  full  of  sin.  Not  so 
the  Shemitic.  What  we  express  formally  by  means  of 
an  added  root,  the  Shemitic  indicates  bjr  a sign,  by  sim- 
ply laying  additional  stress  on  one  of  the  root  letters. 
And  thus  again  the  observation  made  under  the  head 
sound  recurs,  viz.  that  in  the  formation  of  the  Shemitic 
languages  the  dominant  influence  was  that  of  instinctive 
feeling,  passion,  imagination— the  hand  of  nature  ap- 
pearing everywhere,  the  voice  of  nature  heard  in  every 
utterance:  in  this, how  widely  separated  from  the  arti- 
ficial and  highly  organized  languages  of  the  Indo-Euro- 
pean family  (Adelung,  M ifhridates,  i,  361). 

(4.)  The  influence  of  the  imagination  on  the  struc- 
ture of  the  Shemitic  languages  is  further  disclosed  in  the 
view  which  they  present  of  nature  and  of  (hue.  To  these 
languages  a neuter  gender  is  unknown.  All  nature 
viewed  by  the  Shemitic  eye  appears  instinct  with  life. 
The  hearens  declare  God's  glory;  the  earth  shoiceth  his 
handiwork.  The  trees  of  the  field  clap  their  hands  and 
sing  for  joy.  This,  though  the  impassioned  utterance 
of  the  Hebrew  poet,  expresses  a common  national  feel- 
ing, which  finds  embodiment  even  in  the  structure  of 
the  national  language.  Of  inanimate  nature  the  He- 
brew knows  nothing:  he  sees  life  everywhere.  His  lan- 
guage therefore  rejects  the  neuter  gender,  and  classes 
all  objects,  even  those  which  we  regard  as  inanimate,  as 
masculine  or  feminine,  according  as  they  appear  to  his 
imagination  to  be  endowed  with  male  or  female  attri- 
butes. As  his  imagination  thus  endowed  the  lower 
forms  of  nature  with  living  properties,  so,  on  the  other 
hand,  under  the  same  influence,  he  clothed  with  mate- 


133 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


rial  and  sensible  form  the  abstract,  the  spiritual,  even  ] 
the  divine.  In  Hebrew  the  abstract  is  constantly  ex- 
pressed by  the  concrete— the  mental  quality  by  the  bod-  ! 
ilv  member  which  was  regarded  as  its  fittest  representa- 
tive. Thus  hand  or  arm  stands  for  strength;  nos- 
tril, means  also  anger;  the  shining  of  the  face  stands  for 
favor  and  acceptance,  the  falling  of  the  face  for  displeas- 
ure. So  also  to  sag  often  means  to  think ; to  speak  with 
one  mouth  stands  for  to  he  of  the  same  sentiment.  'I’lie 
verb  to  go  is  employed  to  describe  mental  as  well  as  bod- 
ily progress.  One’s  course  of  life  is  his  wag,  the  path  of 
His  feet.  Nor  only  in  its  description  of  nature,  but  also 
in  its  mode  of  indicating  time,  do  we  observe  the  same 
predominant  influence.  The  Shemitic  tense  system,  es- 
pecially as  it  appears  in  Hebrew,  is  extremely  simple 
and  primitive.  1 1 is  not  threefold  like  ours,  distributing 
time  into  past,  present,  and  future,  but  twofold.  The 
two  so-called  tenses  or  rather  states  of  the  verb  corre- 
spond to  the  division  of  nouns  into  abstract  and  con- 
crete. The  verbal  idea  is  conceived  of  either  in  its  re- 
alization or  in  its  non-realization,  whether  actual  or 
ideal.  That  which  lies  before  the  mind  as  realized, 
whether  in  the  actual  past,  present,  or  future,  the  He- 
brew describes  by  means  of  the  so-called  preterite  tense ; 
that  which  he  conceives  of  as  yet  to  be  realized  or  in 
process  of  realization,  whether  in  the  actual  past,  present, 
or  future,  he  describes  by  means  of  the  so-called  future 
tense.  Hence  the  use  of  the  future  in  certain  combina- 
tions as  a historical  tense,  and  of  the  so-called  preterite 
in  certain  combinations  as  a prophetic  tense.  Into  the 
details  of  the  tense  usages  which  branch  out  from  this 
primitive  idea  we  cannot  now  enter.  It  is  in  the  struc- 
tural laws  of  the  Hebrew  language  that  its  influence  is 
most  strongly  marked  : in  the  Aranucan  it  is  almost  lost. 
(See  Ewald,  Lehrhuch,  § 131  a ; Journal  of  Sacred  Lit- 
erature for  Oct.  1849.) 

(5.)  The  influence  of  the  imagination  upon  the  struc- 
ture of  the  Shemitic  languages  may  also  be  traced  in 
the  absence  of  not  a few  grammatical  forms  which  we  find 
in  other  languages.  Much  that  is  definitely  expressed  in 
more  highly  developed  languages  is  left  in  the  Shemit- 
ic languages,  and  especially  in  the  Hebrew,  to  be  caught 
up  by  the  hearer  or  reader.  In  this  respect  there  is  an 
analogy  between  the  language  itself  and  the  mode  in 
which  it  was  originally  represented  in  writing.  Of  the 
language  as  written,  the  vowel  sounds  formed  no  part. 
The  reader  must  supply  these  mentally  as  he  goes  along. 
So  with  the  language  itself.  It  has  not  a separate  and 
distinct  expression  for  every  shade  and  turn  of  thought. 
Much  is  left  to  be  filled  in  by  the  hearer  or  the  reader, 
aiid  this  usually  without  occasioning  any  serious  incon- 
venience or  difficulty.  The  Shemitic  languages,  how- 
ever, do  not  all  stand  on  the  same  level  in  this  respect. 
In  the  Syriac,  and  still  more  in  the  Arabic,  the  expres- 
sion of  thought  is  usually  more  complete  and  precise 
than  iu  Hebrew,  though  often  for  that  very  reason  less 
animated  and  impressive.  A principal  defect  in  these 
languages,  and  especially  in  the  Hebrew,  is  the  fewness 
of  the  particles.  The  extreme  simplicity  of  the  verbal 
formation  also  occasions  to  the  European  student  diffi- 
culties which  can  be  surmounted  only  by  a very  careful 
study  of  the  principles  by  which  the  verb-usages  are 
governed. 

In  this  respect  the  Hebrew  occupies  a middle  position 
between  those  languages  which  consist  almost  entirely 
of  roots  with  a very  scanty  grammatical  development, 
and  the  Indo-European  class  of  languages  in  which  the 
attempt  is  made  to  give  definite  expression  even  to  the 
most  delicate  shades  of  thought.  The  Greek,  says  Paul, 
seeks  after  wisdom : he  reasons,  compares,  analyzes. 
The  Jew  requires  a sign — something  to  strike  the  imag- 
ination and  carry  conviction  to  the  heart  at  once  with- 
out any  formal  and  lengthened  argument.  The  Greek 
language,  therefore,  in  its  most  perfect  form, was  the  off- 
spring of  reason  and  taste;  the  Hebrew,  of  imagination 
and  intuition.  The  Shemites  have  been  the  quarriers 
whose  great  rough  blocks  the  Japhethites  have  cut,  and 


polished,  and  fitted  one  to  another.  The  former,  there- 
fore, are  the  teachers  of  the  world  in  religion,  the  latter 
in  philosophy.  This  peculiar  character  of  the  .Shemitic 
mind  is  very  strongly  impressed  upon  the  language. 

A national  language  being  an  embodiment  and  pic- 
ture of  the  national  mind,  there  is  thus  thrown  around 
the  otherwise  laborious  and  uninteresting  study  of  gram- 
mar, even  in  its  earliest  stages,  an  attractive  power  and 
value  which  would  not  otherwise  belong  to  it.  It  was 
the  same  mind  that  found  expression  in  the  Hebrew 
language,  which  gave  birth,  under  the  influence  of  di- 
vine inspiration,  to  the  sublime  revelations  of  the  Old- 
Testament  Scriptures.  And  it  would  be  easy  to  trace  an 
analogy  between  these  revelations  and  the  language  in 
which  they  have  been  conveyed  to  us.  It  is  curious  to 
find  that  even  the  divinest  thoughts  and  names  of  the 
Old  Testament  connect  themselves  with  questions  in 
Hebrew  grammar.  Thus,  when  we  investigate  the  na- 
ture and  use  of  the  Hebrew'  plural,  and  discover  from  a 
multitude  of  examples  that  it  is  employed  not  only  to 
denote  plurality,  but  likewise  extension,  whether  in  space 
or  time,  as  in  the  Hebrew  words  for  life,  youth,  old  age, 
etc.,  and  also  whatever  seems  bulky  before  the  mind, 
we  are  unwittingly  led  on  to  one  of  the  most  important 
questions  in  the  criticism  of  the  Old  Testament,  viz.  the 
origin  of  the  plural  form  of  the  divine  name 
( Elohim ),  in  our  version  rendered  God.  Or,  again,  when 
we  study  the  difficult  question  of  the  tenses,  and  endeav- 
or to  determine  the  exact  import  and  force  of  each,  we 
speedily  discover  that  the  grammatical  investigation  we 
are  pursuing  is  one  of  unspeakable  moment,  for  it  in- 
volves the  right  apprehension  of  that  most  sacred  name 
of  God  which  the  Jew  still  refuses  to  take  upon  his  lips, 
the  four-letter  name  fPiT1,  Jehovah  (q.  v.). 

3.  In  the  syntax  and  general  structure  of  the  Shemitic 
languages  and  writings  we  trace  the  operation  of  the 
same  principles,  the  same  tendencies  of  mind  which 
manifest  themselves  in  the  structure  of  words.  In  this 
respect  the  Hebrew  language  exhibits  a more  simple 
and  primitive  type  than  any  of  the  sister  tongues.  The 
simplicity  of  the  Hebrew  composition  is  very  obvious 
even  to  the  reader  of  the  English  Bible,  or  to  the  schol- 
ar who  compares  the  Greek  Testament,  the  style  of 
which  is  formed  on  the  model  of  the  Old  Testament, 
with  the  classical  Greek  writers.  We  observe  at  once 
that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  the  building  up  of  a 
lengthened  period,  consisting  of  several  propositions 
duly  subordinated  and  compacted  so  as  to  form  a har- 
monious and  impressive  whole.  Hebrew  composition 
consists  rather  of  a succession  of  co-ordinate  proposi- 
tions, each  of  which  is  for  the  moment  uppermost  in 
the  view  of  the  speaker  or  w'riter,  until  it  is  superseded 
by  that  which  follows.  This  results  at  once  from  the 
character  of  the  Shemitic  mind,  which  was  more  re- 
markable for  rapid  movements  and  vivid  glances  than 
for  large  and  comprehensive  grasp.  Such  a mind  would 
give  forth  its  thoughts  in  a rapid  succession  of  inde- 
pendent utterances  rather  than  in  sustained  and  elabo- 
rated composition.  It  is  a consequence  of  the  same 
mental  peculiarity  that  the  highest  poetry  of  the  She- 
mitic nations  is  lyrical. 

The  Hebrew  composition  is  also  extremely  pictorial 
in  its  character— not  the  poetry  only,  but  also  the  prose. 
In  the  history  the  past  is  not  described,  it  is  painted. 
It  is  not  the  ear  that  hears,  it  is  rather  the  eye  that 
sees.  The  course  of  events  is  made  to  pass  before  the 
eye;  the  transactions  are  all  acted  over  again.  The 
past  is  not  a fixed  landscape,  but  a moving  panorama. 
The  reader  of  the  English  Bible  must  have  remarked 
the  constant  use  of  the  word  behold,  which  indicates 
that  the  writer  is  himself,  and  wishes  to  make  his  read- 
er also,  a spectator  of  the  transactions  he  describes. 
The  use  of  the  tenses  in  the  Hebrew  historical  writings 
is  specially  remarkable.  To  the  young  student  of  He- 
brew the  constant  use  of  the  /«/«re  tense  in  the  descrip- 
tion of  the  past  appears  perhaps  the  most  striking  pe- 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


134 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


euliaritv  of  the  language.  But  the  singular  phenome- 
non admits  of  an  easy  explanation.  It  was  because  the 
Hebrew  viewed  and  described  the  transactions  of  the 
past,  not  as  all  past  and  done,  but  as  in  actual  process 
and  progress  of  evolvcment,  that  he  makes  such  frc-  J 
ipient  use  of  the  so-called  future.  In  imagination  he 
quits  his  own  point  of  time,  and  lives  .over  the  past. 
\Vith  his  reader  he  sails  down  the  stream  of  time,  and 
traces  with  open  eye  the  winding  course  of  history.  It 
is  impossible  always  to  reproduce  exactly  in  English 
ibis  peculiarity  of  the  Hebrew  Bible. 

Further,  in  writing  even  of  the  commonest  actions, 
as  that  one  went , spoke,  saw,  etc.,  the  Hebrew  is  not 
usually  satisfied  with  the  simple  statement  that  the 
thing  was  done,  he  must  describe  also  the  process  of  do- 
ing. We  are  so  familiar  with  the  style  of  our  English 
Bibles  that  we  do  not  at  once  perceive  the  pictorial 
character  of  such  expressions  as  these,  recurring  in  ev- 
ery page:  he  arose  and  went;  he  opened  his  lips  and 
spake;  he  put  forth  his  hand  and  took;  he  lifted  up  his 
eyes  and  saw ; he  lifted  up  his  voice  and  wept.  But  what 
we  do  not  consciously  perceive  we  often  unconsciously 
feci ; and  doubtless  it  is  this  painting  of  events  which  is 
i lie  source  of  part  at  least  of  the  charm  with  which  the 
Scripture  narrative  is  invested  to  all  pure  and  simple 
minds. 

The  same  effect  is  also  produced  by  the  symbolical  j 
way  of  representing  mental  states  and  processes  which  | 
distinguishes  the  Hebrew  writers.  Such  expressions  as 
to  bend  or  -incline  the  ear  for  “to  hear  attentively,”  to 
stifen  the  neck  for  “ to  be  stubborn  and  rebellions,”  to 
uncover  the  ear  for  “to  reveal,”  are  in  frequent  use. 
Even  the  acts  of  the  Divine  Mind  are  depicted  in  a 
similar  way.  In  the  study  especially  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment we  must  keep  this  point  carefully  in  view,  lest  we 
should  err  by  giving  to  a symbolical  expression  a literal 
interpretation.  Thus,  when  we  read  (Exod.  xxxiii,  11) 
that  “the  Lord  spake  unto  Moses  face  to  face  as  a man  , 
speaketh  unto  his  friend,”  we  must  remember  that  it 
was  a Hebrew  who  wrote  these  words,  one  who  was  ac- 
customed to  depict  to  himself  and  others  the  spiritual 
under  material  symbols,  and  thus  we  shall  be  guarded 
against  irreverently  attaching  to  them  a meaning  which 
they  were  never  intended  to  hear.  But,  though  such 
modes  of  expression  are  open  to  misapprehension  by  ns 
whose  minds  are  formed  in  so  very  different  a moidd, 
nevertheless,  when  rightly  understood,  they  have  the 
effect  of  giving  ns  a more  clear  and  vivid  impression  of 
the  spiritual  ideas  which  they  embody  than  could  be 
conveyed  to  us  by  any  other  mode  of  representation  or 
expression. 

The  simplicity  and  naturalness  of  the  language  fur- 
ther rppears  in  the  prominence  which  is  constantly 
given  to  the  word  or  words  embodying  the  leading  idea 
in  a sentence  or  period.  Thus  the  noun  stands  before 
the  adjective,  the  predicate  stands  before  the  subject, 
unless  the  latter  be  specially  emphatic,  in  which  case  it 
is  not  only  put  first,  but  may  stand  by  itself  as  a nomi- 
native absolute  without  any  syntactical  connection  with 
the  rest  of  the  sentence. 

The  constant  use  of  the  oratio  directa  is  also  to  be 
specially  noted,  as  an  indication  of  the  primitive  char- 
acter of  the  language.  The  Hebrew  historian  does  not 
usually  inform  us  that  such  and  such  a person  said  such 
and  such  things;  he  actually,  as  it  were,  produces  the 
parties  and  makes  them  speak  for  themselves.  To  this 
device  (if  it  may  be  so  called)  the  Bible  history  owes 
much  of  its  freshness  and  power  of  exciting  and  sustain- 
ing the  interest  of  its  readers.  No  other  history  could 
be  so  often  read  without  losing  its  power  to  interest  and 
charm. 

Lastly,  in  a primitive  language,  formed  under  the 
predominating  influence  of  imagination  and  emotion, 
we  may  expect  to  meet  with  many  elliptical  expres- 
sions, and  also  with  many  redundancies.  Not  a little 
which  we  think  it  necessary  formally  to  express  in 
words,  the  Hebrew  allowed  to  be  gathered  from  the  con- 


text ; and,  conversely,  the  Hebrew  gave  expression  to 
not  a little  which  we  omit.  For  example,  nothing  is 
more  ccmmen  in  Hebrew  than  the  omission  of  the  verb 
tv  be  in  its  various  forms ; and,  on  the  other  hand,  a very 
striking  characteristic  of  the  Hebrew  style  is  the  con- 
stant use  of  the  forms  i"Pn),  and  it  came  to  pass— 
and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  which,  in  translating  into  Eng- 
lish, may  be  altogether  omitted  without  any  serious 
loss.  In  the  Hebrew  prose,  also,  we  often  meet  with 
traces  of  that  echoing  of  thought  and  expression  which 
forms  one  of  the  principal  characteristics  of  the  poetic 
style;  as  in  Gen.  vi, 22, “And  Noah  did  according  to  all 
that  God  commanded  him — so  did  he;"  and  similar  pas- 
sages, in  which  we  seem  to  have  two  different  forms  of 
recording  the  same  fact  combined  into  one,  thus:  “And 
Noah  did  according  to  all  that  God  commanded  him 
“According  to  all  that  the  Lord  commanded  him,  so 
did  he.” 

II.  History  of  the  Hebrew  Language. — 1.  Its  Origin. — 
The  extant  historical  notices  on  this  point  carry  Us  back 
to  the  age  of  Abraham,  hut  no  further.  The  best  evi- 
dences which  we  possess  as  to  the  form  of  the  Hebrew 
language  prior  to  its  first,  historical  period  tend  to  show 
that  Abraham,  on  his  entrance  into  Canaan,  found  the 
language  then  prevailing  among  almost  all  the  different 
tribes  inhabiting  that  country  to  be  in  at  least  dialec- 
tual  affinity  with  his  own.  This  is  gathered  from  the 
following  facts:  that  nearly  all  the  names  of  places  and 
persons  relating  to  those  tribes  admit  of  Hebrew  ety- 
mologies; that,  amid  all  the  accounts  of  the  intercourse 
of  the  Hebrews  with  the  nations  of  Canaan,  we  find  no 
hint  of  a diversity  of  idiom;  and  that  even  the  com- 
paratively recent  remains  of  the  Phoenician  and  Punic 
languages  bear  a manifest  affinity  to  the  Hebrew.  But 
whether  the  Hebrew  language,  as  seen  in  the  earliest 
books  of  the  Old  Test.,  is  the  very  dialect  which  Abra- 
ham brought  with  him  into  Canaan,  or  whether  it  was 
the  common  tongue  of  the  Canaanitish  nations,  which 
Abraham  only  adopted  from  them,  and  which  was  after- 
wards developed  to  greater  fulness  under  the  peculiar 
moral  and  political  intlucnccs  to  which  his  posterity  were 
exposed,  are  questions  which,  in  the  absence  of  conclu- 
sive arguments,  are  generally  discussed  with  some  dog- 
matical prepossessions.  Almost  all  those  who  support 
the  first  view  contend  also  that  Hebrew  was  the  primi- 
tive language  of  mankind.  S.  Morinus  {Ling.  Primm\ ) 
and  Lbseher  {De  Causis  Ling,  flebr.)  are  among  the  best 
champions  of  this  opinion;  hut  Hiivernick  has  more 
recently  advocated  it  with  such  modifications  as  make 
it  more  acceptable  {Einleit.  in  dasAlte  Test.  1 , i,  148  sq.). 
The  principal  argument  on  which  they  depend  is  that, 
as  the  most  important  proper  names  in  the  first  part  of 
Genesis  (as  Cain,  Seth,  and  others)  are  evidently  found- 
ed on  Hebrew  etymologies,  the  essential  connection  of 
those  names  with  their  etymological  origins  involves 
the  historical  credibility  of  the  records  themselves,  and 
loaves  no  mom  for  any  other  conclusion  than  that  the 
Hebrew  language  is  coeval  with  the  earliest  history  of 
man.  The  evidence  on  the  other  side  i.s  scanty,  but  not 
without  weight.  (1.)  In  Dent,  xxvi,  5,  Abraham  is 
called  a Syrian  or  Aramaean  (“£“80,  from  which  we 
naturally  conclude  that  Syriac  was  his  mother  tongue, 
especially  when  we  find.  (2.)  from  Gen.  xxxi,  47,  that 
Syriac  or  Chaldee  was  the  language  spoken  by  Laban, 
the  grandson  of  Nalior,  Ahraham’s  brother.  Moreover, 
it  has  been  remarked  (3.)  that  in  Isa.  xix,  18,  the  He- 
brew is  actually  called  the  language  of  Canaan ; and 
1 (4.)  that,  the  language  itself  furnishes  internal  evidence 
of  its  Palestinian  origin  in  the  word  t*1,  sea,  which 
means  also  the  west,  and  has  this  meaning  in  the  very 
earliest  documents.  (5.)  Finally,  Jewish  tradition,  what- 
ever weight  may  be  attached  to  it,  points  to  the  same 
conclusion  (Gesenius,  Cesehichte,  sect,  vi,  4). 

If  we  inquire  further  how  it  was  that  the  Canaanites, 
of  the  race  of  Ham,  spoke  a language  so  closely  allied 
to  the  languages  spoken  by  the  principal  members  of 


135 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


the  Shemitie  family  of  nations,  we  shall  soon  discover 
that  the  solution  of  this  difficulty  is  impossible  with  our 
present  means  of  information;  it  lies  beyond  the  his- 
toric period.  It  may  be  that  long  before  the  migration 
of  Abraham  a Slicmitie  race  occupied  Palestine;  and 
that,  as  Abraham  adopted  the  language  of  the  Canaan- 
ites,  so  the  Canaanites  themselves  had  in  like  manner 
adopted  the  language  of  that  earlier  race  whom  they 
gradually  dispossessed,  and  eventually  extirpated  or  ab- 
sorbed. However  this  may  be,  leaving  speculation  for 
fact,  is  it  not  possible  to  discover  a wise  purpose  in  the 
selection  cf  the  language  of  Tyre  and  Sidon— the  great 
commercial  cities  of  antiquity  — as  the  language  in 
which  was  to  be  embodied  the  most  wonderfid  revela- 
tion of  himself  and  of  his  law  which  God  made  to  the 
ancient  world?  When  we  remember  the  constant  in- 
tercourse which  was  maintained  by  the  Phoenicians 
with  the  most  distant  regions  both  of  the  East  and  of 
the  West,  it  is  impossible  to  doubt  that  the  sacred  books 
of  the  Hebrews,  written  in  a language  almost  identical 
with  the  Phoenician,  must  have  exercised  a more  im- 
portant influence  on  the  Gentile  world  than  is  usually 
acknowledged. 

Of  course  the  Canaanitish  language,  when  adopted 
bv  the  Hebrews,  did  not  remain  unchanged.  Having 
become  the  instrument  of  the  Hebrew  mind,  and  being 
employed  in  the  expression  of  new  and  very  peculiar 
ideas,  it  must  have  been  modified  considerably  thereby. 
How  far  may  possibly  he  yet  ascertained,  should  acci- 
dent or  the  successful  zeal  of  some  explorer  bring  to 
light  the  more  ancient  monuments  of  the  Phoenician 
nation,  which  may  still  have  survived  the  entombment 
of  centuries. 

2.  Influences  modifying  the  Form  of  the  Hebrew  Lan- 
guor;e,  and  the  Style  of  the  Ilebreio  Writings. — (I.)  Time. 
— The  history  of  the  Hebrew  language,  as  far  as  we  can 
trace  its  course  by  the  changes  in  the  diction  of  the 
documents  in  which  it  is  preserved,  may  here  be  con- 
veniently divided  into  that  of  the  period  preceding  and 
that  of  the  period  succeeding  the  Exile.  If  it  be  a 
matter  of  surprise  that  the  thousand  years  which  inter- 
vened between  Moses  and  the  Captivity  should  not  have 
produced  sufficient  change  in  the  language  to  warrant 
its  history  during  that  time  being  distributed  into  sub- 
ordinate divisions,  the  following  considerations  may  ex- 
cuse this  arrangement.  It  is  one  of  the  signal  charac- 
teristics of  the  Hebrew  language,  as  seen  in  all  the 
books  prior  to  the  Exile,  that,  notwithstanding  the  ex- 
istence of  some  isolated  but  important  archaisms,  such 
as  in  the  form  of  the  pronoun,  etc.  (the  best  collection 
of  which  may  be  seen  in  Iliivernick,  f.  c.  p.  183  sq.),  it 
preserves  an  unparalleled  general  uniformity  of  struc- 
ture. The  extent  to  which  this  uniformity  prevails 
may  be  estimated  either  by  the  fact  that  it  has  fur- 
nished many  modern  scholars,  who  reason  from  the 
analogies  discovered  in  the  changes  in  other  languages 
in  a given  period,  with  an  argument  to  show  that  the 
Pentateuch  could  not  have  been  written  at  so  remote  a 
date  as  is  generally  believed  (Gesenius,  Gesch.  der  I lehr. 
Sprache , § 8),  or  by  the  conclusion,  a fortiori , which 
Havernick,  whose  express  object  is  to  vindicate  its  re- 
ceived antiquity,  candidly  concedes,  that  “ the  books 
of  Chronicles,  Ezra,  and  Nehemiah  are  the  earliest  in 
which  the  language  differs  sensibly  from  that  in  the 
historical  portions  of  the  Pentateueh”  ( Einleit . i,  180). 
Even  those  critics  who  endeavor  to  bring  down  the 
Pentateuch  as  a whole  to  a comparatively  late  date  al- 
low that  a portion  at  least  of  its  contents  is  to  be  assign- 
ed to  the  age  of  Moses  (Ewald,  Lehrbueh,  sec.  2,  c) : 
and  thus,  unless  it  can  be  shown  that  this  most  ancient 
portion  bears  in  its  language  and  style  the  stamp  of 
high  antiquity,  and  is  distinguished  in  a very  marked 
manner  from  the  other  portions  of  the  Pentateuch  (which 
has  not  been  shown),  the  phenomenon  still  remains  un- 
explained. But,  indeed,  the  phenomenon  is  by  no  means 
unexampled.  It  does  not  stand  alone.  It  is  said,  for 
example,  that  the  Chinese  language  displays  the  same 


tenacity  and  aversion  to  change  still  more  decidedly, 
the  books  of  the  great  teacher  Confucius  being  written 
in  language  not  essentially  different  from  that  of  his 
commentators  fifteen  hundred  years  later.  So  we  are 
informed  by  a writer  of  the  15th  century  that  the  Greeks, 
at  least  the  more  cultivated  class,  even  in  his  day  spoke 
the  language  of  Aristophanes  and  Euripides,  maintaining 
the  ancient  standard  of  elegance  and  purity  (Gibbon, 
viii,  106).  Or,  to  take  another  example  more  closely 
related  to  the  Hebrew,  it  is  well  known  that  the  written 
Arabic  of  the  present  day  does  not  differ  greatly  from 
that  of  the  first  centuries  after  Mohammed.  In  each 
of  the  cases  just  mentioned,  it  is  probable  that  the  lan- 
guage was  as  it  were  stereotyped  by  becoming  the  lan- 
guage of  hooks  held  in  highest  esteem  and  reverence, 
diligently  studied  by  the  learned,  frequently  committed 
to  memory,  and  adopted  as  a model  of  style  by  succeed- 
ing writers.  Now,  may  not  the  sacred  writings  of  the 
Mosaic  age  have  had  a similar  influence  on  the  written 
Hebrew  of  the  following  ages,  which  continued  undis- 
turbed till  the  Captivity,  or  even  later?  We  know 
how  greatly  the  translations  of  the  Bible  into  English 
and  German  have  aff'eeted  the  language  and  literature 
of  England  and  Germany  ever  since  they  were  given  to 
the  world.  But  among  a people  like  the  ancient  He- 
brews, living  to  a certain  extent  apart  from  other  na- 
tions, with  a literature  of  no  great  extent,  and  a learned 
class  specially  engaged  in  the  study  and  transcription 
of  the  sacred  writings,  we  may  well  suppose  that  the 
influence  of  these  writings  upon  the  form  of  the  nation- 
al language  must  have  been  much  more  decided  and 
permanent.  The  learned  men  woidd  naturally  adopt 
in  their  compositions  the  language  of  the  books  which 
had  been  their  study  from  youth,  and  large  portions  of 
which  they  were  probably  able  to  repeat  from  memory. 
Thus  the  language  of  these  old  books,  though  it  might 
differ  in  some  respects  from  that  spoken  by  the  common 
people,  woidd  naturally  become  the  language  of  the 
learned  and  of  books,  especially  of  those  books  on  sacred 
subjects,  such  as  have  alone  come  down  to  us  from  an- 
eient  Israel.  In  explanation  of  the  fact  under  discus- 
sion, appeal  has  also  been  made  (o)  to  the  permanence 
of  Eastern  customs,  and  (5)  to  the  simple  structure  of 
the  Hebrew  language,  which  rendered  it  less  liable  to 
change  than  other  more  largely  developed  languages 
(see  Ewald,  Ileb.  Gram.  § 7).  It  has  also  been  remarked 
that  some  of  the  peculiarities  of  the  early  writings  may 
be  concealed  from  view  by  the  uniformity  of  the  sys- 
tem of  punctuation  adopted  and  .applied  to  the  Scrip- 
tures by  the  Hebrew  grammarians. 

In  the  canonical  books  belonging  to  the  first  period 
the  Hebrew  language  thus  appears  in  a state  of  mature 
development.  Although  it  still  preserves  the  charms 
of  freshness  and  simplicity,  yet  it  has  attained  great 
regularity  of  formation,  and  such  a precision  of  syntac- 
tical arrangement  as  insures  both  energy  and  distinct- 
ness. Some  common  notions  of  its  laxity  and  inilcfi- 
niteness  have  no  other  foundation  than  the  very  inade- 
quate scholarship  of  the  persons  who  form  them.  A 
clearer  insight  into  the  organism  of  language  absolutely, 
joined  to  such  a study  of  the  cognate  Syro-Arabian 
idioms  as  would  reveal  the  secret,  but  no  less  certain, 
laws  of  its  syntactical  coherence,  would  show  them  to 
what  degree  the  simplicity  of  Hebrew  is  compatible 
with  grammatical  precision.  One  of  the  most  remark- 
able features  in  the  language  of  this  period  is  the  differ- 
ence which  distinguishes  the  diction  of  poetry  from 
that  of  prose.  This  difference  consists  in  the  use  of  un- 
usual words  and  flexions  (many  of  which  are  considered 
to  be  Aramaisms  or  archaisms,  although  in  this  case 
these  terms  are  nearly  identical),  and  in  a harmonic  ar- 
rangement of  thoughts,  as  seen  both  in  the  parallelism 
of  members  in  a single  verse,  and  in  the  strophic  order 
of  larger  portions,  the  delicate  art  of  which  Ewald  has 
traced  with  pre-eminent  success  in  his  Poetische  Bucher 
des  A lie  Bumles,  vol.  i. 

The  Babylonian  Captivity  is  assigned  as  the  com- 


136 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 

mencement  of  that  decline  and  corruption  which  mark 
the  second  period  in  the  history  of  the  Hebrew  lan- 
guage ; but  the  Assyrian  deportation  of  the  ten  tribes,  in 
t he  rear  1 >.C,  720,  was  probably  the  first  means  of  bring- 
ing the  Aramaic  idiom  into  injurious  proximity  with 
it.  The  Exile,  however,  forms  the  epoch  at  which  the 
language  shows  evident  signs  of  that  encroachment  of 
the  Aramaic  on  its  integrity,  which  afterwards  ended  in 
its  complete  extinction.  The  diction  of  the  different 
books  of  this  period  discovers  various  grades  of  this  Ar- 
amaic influence,  and  in  some  cases  approaches  so  nearly 
to  the  type  of  the  lirst  period  that  it  has  been  ascribed 
to  mere  imitation. 

The  writings  which  belong  to  the  second  age— that 
subsequent  to  the  Babylonian  Captiyity— accordingly 
differ  very  considerably  from  those  which  belong  to  the 
first;  the  influence  of  the  Chaldee  language,  acquired 
by  the  Jewish  exiles  in  the  land  of  their  captivity, 
having  gradually  corrupted  the  national  tongue.  The 
historical  books  belonging  to  this  age  are  the  books  of 
Chronicles,  Ezra,  Nehemiah,  and  Esther.  In  the  proph- 
ets who  prophesied  during  and  after  the  Captivity,  with 
the  exception  of  Daniel,  the  Chaldee  impress  is  by  no 
means  so  strong  as  we  might  anticipate,  they  having 
evidently  formed  their  style  on  that  of  the  older  proph- 
ets. It  is  important,  however,  to  observe  that  the  pres- 
ence of  what  appears  to  be  a Chaldaism  is  not  always 
the  indication  of  a later  age.  Chaldee  words  and  forms 
occasionally  appear  even  in  the  most  ancient  Hebrew' 
compositions,  especially  the  poetical,  the  poet  delight- 
ing in  archaic  and  rare  words,  and  substituting  these  for 
the  more  usual  and  commonplace.  But  between  the 
Chaldaic  archaisms  and  the  C’haldeisms  of  the  later 
Scriptures  there  is  this  marked  distinction,  that  the  for- 
mer are  only  occasional,  and  lie  scattered  on  the  surface ; 
the  latter  are  frequent,  and  give  a peculiar  color  and 
character  to  the  whole  language. 

A still  more  corrupt  form  of  the  language  appears  in 
the  Mishna  and  other  later  Jewish  writings,  in  which 
the  foreign  element  is  much  more  decided  and  promi- 
nent. 

(2.)  Place. — Under  this  head  is  embraced  the  ques- 
tion as  to  the  existence  of  different  dialects  of  the  an- 
cient Hebrew.  Was  the  Hebrew  language,  as  spoken 
by  the  several  tribes  of  Israel,  of  uniform  mould  and 
character?  or  did  it  branch  out  into  various  dialects 
corresponding  to  the  leading  divisions  of  the  nation? 
In  attempting  to  answer  this  question,  there  is  no  direct 
historical  testimony  of  which  we  can  avail  ourselves. 
From  Xeh.  xiii,  23,  24,  we  learn  nothing  more  than  that 
the  language  of  Ashdod  differed  from  that  of  the  Jews 
after  their  return  from  captivity,  which  is  only  what  wre 
might  have  anticipated.  The  notices  in  Judg.  xii,  G 
and  xviii,3,  which  are  more  to  the  purpose,  refer  rather 
to  a difference  in  pronunciation  than  in  the  form  of  the 
language.  Notwithstanding  it  seems  prima  facie  prob- 
able (a)  that  the  language  of  the  trans-Jordanic  tribes 
v’as  in  course  of  time  modified  to  a greater  or  less  ex- 
tent bv  the  close  contact  of  these  tribes  with  the  Syr- 
ians of  the  north  and  the  Arab  tribes  of  the  great  east- 
ern desert;  and  ( b ) that  a similar  dialectic  difference 
would  gradually  he  developed  in  the  language  of  Ephra- 
im and  the  other  northern  tribes  to  the  west  of  the 
Jordan,  especially  after  the  political  separation  of  these 
tribes  from  the  tribe  of  Judah  and  the  family  of  David. 
Possibly  in  the  Jewish  language  of  2 Kings  xviii,  28  we 
may  discover  the  trace  of  some  such  difference  of  dia- 
lect ; for  we  can  scarcely  suppose  the  name  .Jewish  to 
have  been  introduced  in  the  very  brief  period  which  in- 
tervened between  the  taking  of  Samaria  and  the  trans- 
action in  the  record  of  which  it  occurs;  and,  if  in  use 
before  the  taking  of  Samaria  and  the  captivity  of  the 
ten  tribes,  it  must  have  been  restricted  to  the  form  of 
the  Hebrew  language  prevailing  in  Judina,  which,  being 
thus  distinguished  in  name  from  the  language  of  the 
northern  tribes,  was  probably  distinguished  in  other  re- 
spects also.  It  is  not  improbable  that  some  of  the  lin- 


guistic peculiarities  of  the  separate  books  of  Scripture 
are  to  be  accounted  for  on  this  hypothesis. 

3.  When  the  Hebrew  Language  ceased  io  be  a living 
Language. — The  Jewish  tradition,  credited  by  Kimchi, 
is  to  the  effect  that  the  Hebrew  language  ceased  to  be 
spoken  by  the  body  of  the  people  during  their  captivity 
in  Babylon ; and  this  is  the  opinion  of  many  Christian 
scholars  also,  among  -whom  are  Buxtorf  and  Walton. 
Others,  as  Pfeiffer  and  Lbscher,  argue  that  it  is  quite 
unreasonable,  considering  the  duration  and  other  cir- 
cumstances of  the  Exile,  to  suppose  that  the  Jews  did 
not  retain  the  partial  use  of  their  native  tongue  for 
some  time  after  their  return  to  Palestine,  and  lose  it  by 
slow  degrees  at  last.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the 
Hebrew  was  never  spoken  in  its  purity  after  the  return 
from  captivity;  but  that  it  ceased  altogether  to  be  the 
language  of  the  people  after  that  period,  and  was  re- 
tained only  as  the  language  of  books  and  of  the  learned, 
has  not  been  established.  The  principal  evidence  re- 
lied on  by  those  who  hold  this  opinion  is  derived  from 
Neh.  viii,  8:  “So  they  read  in  the  book,  in  the  law  of 
God,  distinctly , and  gave  the  sense,  and  caused  them  to 
understand  the  reading.”  Distinctly , IL’IE'C,  i.  e.  says 

I lengstenberg,  “with  the  addition  of  a translation” 

( Genuineness  of  Daniel , ch.  iii,  sec.  5).  But,  though  this 
gloss  has  some  support  in  Jewish  tradition,  it  is  at  va- 
riance both  with  Hebrew  and  with  Chaldee  usage. 
TIHEp  means  made  clear  or  distinct,  as  is  evident  from 
Numb,  xv,  34  (the  meaning  of  ‘C^E'C,  in  Ezra  iv,  18,  is 
disputed);  and  TAPE'S  can  scarcely  be  other- 

wise rendered  than  “ they  read  distinctly"  (see  the  Lexi- 
cons of  Cocceius,  Gesenius,  and  Fi'irst;  Buxtorf  and 
Gussetius  render  by  expla7mfe,  explicate).  This,  indeed, 
is  evident  from  the  context ; for  if  we  should  render 
with  I lengstenberg,  “ They  read  it  with  the  addition  of 
a translation to  what  purpose  the  clause  which  follows, 

II  and  gave  the  sense,"  etc.?  At  the  same  time,  though 
this  passage  does  not  furnish  sufficient  evidence  to  prove 
that  in  the  time  of  Neliemiah  Hebrew  had  ceased  to  be 
the  language  of  every-day  life,  it  does  seem  to  point  to 
the  conclusion  that  at  that  time  it  had  considerably  de- 
generated from  its  ancient  purity,  so  that  the  common 
people  had  some  difficulty  in  understanding  the  lan- 
guage of  their  ancient  sacred  books.  Still  we  believe 
that  the  Hebrew  element  predominated,  ami,  instead  of 
describing,  with  Walton  ( Prolegom . iii,  sec.  24),  the  lan- 
guage of  the  Jews  on  their  return  from  exile  as  “ Chal- 
dee with  a certain  admixture  of  Hebrew"  we  should 
rather  describe  it  as  Hebrew  v-ith  a large  admixture  of 
Chaldee.  Only  on  this  hypothesis  does  it  appear  possi- 
ble satisfactorily  to  account  for  the  fact  that  Hebrew 
continued  even  after  this  period  to  be  the  language  of 
prophets  and  preachers,  historians  and  poets,  while  there 
is  no  trace  of  any  similar  use  of  the  Chaldee  among  the 
Jews  of  Palestine  (compare  also  Neh.  xiii,  24). 

At  what  time  Chaldee  became  the  dominant  element 
in  the  national  language  it  is  impossible  to  determine. 
\11  political  influences  favored  its  ascendency,  and  with 
these  concurred  the  influence  of  that  large  portion  of 
| the  nation  still  resident  in  the  East,  and  maintaining 
constant  intercourse  with  a Chaldee-speaking  popula- 
tion. To  these  influences  we  cannot  wonder  that  the 
Hebrew,  notwithstanding  the  sacred  associations  con- 
nected with  it,  by-and-by  succumbed.  On  the  coins  of 
the  Maccabees,  indeed,  the  ancient  language  still  ap- 
pears; but  we  cannot  conclude  from  this  circumstance 
that  it  maintained  its  position  as  a living  language 
down  to  the  Maecal.aan  period  (Henan,  Longues  Semi- 
tiques,  p.  137).  The  fragments  of  the  popular  language 
which  we  find  in  the  New  Testament  arc  all  Aramaean, 
and  ever  since  the  Hebrew  has  been  preserved  and  cul- 
tivated as  the  language  of  the  learned  and  of  hooks,  and 
not  of  common  life.  On  the  history  of  the  post-Hiblical 
Hebrew  we  do  not  now  enter. 

HI.  Of  the  Written  Jleh-etr. — The  Shemitic  nations 
have  been  the  teachers  of  the  world  in  religion ; by  the 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


137 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


invention  of  the  alphabet  they  may  likewise  lay  claim  to 
the  honor  of  having  laid  the  foundation  of  the  world’s 
literature.  The  Shemitic  alphabet,  as  is  well  known, 
has  no  signs  for  the  pure  vowel  sounds.  All  the  letters 
are  consonants ; some,  however,  are  so  weak  as  easily  to 
pass  into  vowels,  and  these  letters  we  accordingly  find 
in  use,  especially  in  the  later  Scriptures,  as  vowel  marks. 
Two  interesting  questions  here  present  themselves : 1. 
As  to  the  age  and  origin  of  the  characters  or  letters 
which  appear  in  all  extant  Hebrew  MSS.  and  in  our 
printed  Hebrew  Bibles ; and,  2.  As  to  the  origin  and  au- 
thority of  the  punctuation  by  which  the  vowel  sounds 
are  indicated. 

1.  On  the  former  of  these  questions  there  are  two  con- 
clusions which  may  be  relied  on  as  certain:  (1.)  That 
the  present  square  characters  were  not  in  use  among  the 
Jews  previous  to  the  Babylonian  Captivity.  The  Jew- 
ish tradition  is  that  they  were  introduced  or  reintro- 
duced by  Ezra  (Gesenius,  Geschichte,  p.  150;  Lightfoot, 
Ilone  Hebra icie,  Mat t.  v,  18).  (2.)  That  the  square  char- 
acters have  been  in  use  since  the  beginning  of  our  a?ra 
(Hupfeld  in  Stud,  and  Krit.  for  1830,  p.  288).  But  be- 
tween these  two  limits  several  centuries  intervene;  is  it 
not  possible  to  approximate  more  closely  to  the  date  of 
their  introduction  ? The  only  fact  to  which  appeal  can 
be  made  with  this  view  is  this,  that  on  the  coins  of  the 
Maccabees  the  square  characters  do  not  appear;  but 
whether  we  are  entitled  to  conclude  from  this  that  these 
characters  had  not  then  come  into  use  in  Judaea  is  very 
doubtful  (Gesenius,  Geschichte , sect,  xliii,  B).  The  prob- 
ability is  that  the  introduction  of  these  characters,  called 
by  the  Jewish  doctors  Assyrian,  and  generally  admitted 
to  be  of  Aramaean  origin,  had  some  connection  with  the 
introduction  of  the  Aramaean  language,  and  that  the 
change  from  the  ancient  written  characters,  like  that 
from  the  ancient  language,  was  not  accomplished  at 
once,  but  gradually.  It  is  possible  that  in  the  intensity 
of  national  feeling  awakened  during  the  Maccabsean 
struggle,  there  was  a reaction  in  favor  of  the  ancient 
language  and  writing. 

The  earliest  monuments  of  Hebrew  writing  which  we 
possess  are  these  genuine  coins  of  the  Maccabees,  which 
date  from  the  year  B.C.  143.  The  character  in  which 
their  inscriptions  are  expressed  bears  a very  near  resem- 
blance to  the  Samaritan  alphabet,  and  both  are  evident- 
ly derived  from  the  Phoenician  alphabet.  The  Talmud 
also,  and  Origen  and  Jerome,  both  attest  the  fact  that 
an  ancient  Hebrew  character  had  fallen  into  disuse; 
and  by  stating  that  the  Samaritans  employed  it,  and  by 
giving  some  descriptions  of  its  form,  they  distinctly 
prove  that  the  ancient  character  spoken  of  was  essen- 
tially the  same  as  that  on  the  Asmonaean  coins.  It  is 
therefore  considered  to  be  established  beyond  a doubt 
that,  before  the  exile,  the  Hebrews  used  this  ancient 
character  (the  Talmud  even  calls  it  the  “Hebrew”). 
The  Talmud,  and  Origen,  and  Jerome  ascribe  the  change 
to  Ezra;  and  those  who, like  Gesenius,  admit  this  tra- 
dition to  be  true  in  a limited  sense,  reconcile  it  with  the 
late  use  of  the  ancient  letters  on  the  coins,  by  appealing 
to  the  parallel  use  of  the  Kufic  characters  on  the  Mo- 
hammedan coins,  for  several  centuries  after  the  Nishi 
was  employed  for  writing,  or  by  supposing  that  the 
Maccabees  had  a mercantile  interest  in  imitating  the 
coinage  of  the  Phoenicians.  The  other  opinion  is  that, 
as  the  square  Hebrew  character  has  not,  to  all  appear- 
ance, been  developed  directly  out  of  the  ancient  stiff 
Phoenician  type,  but  out  of  an  alphabet  bearing  near  af- 
finity to  that  found  in  the  Palmyrene  inscriptions,  a 
combination  of  this  palseograpliical  fact  with  the  inter- 
course which  took  place  between  the  Jews  and  the  Syr- 
ians under  the  Seleucidse,  renders  it  probable  that  the 
square  character  was  first  adopted  at  some  inconsider- 
able but  undefinable  time  before  the  Christian  jera. 
Either  of  these  theories  is  compatible  with  the  supposi- 
tion that  the  square  character  underwent  many  succes- 
sive modifications  in  the  next  centuries,  before  it  at- 
tained its  full  calligraphical  perfection.  The  passage  in 


| Matt,  v,  18  is  considered  to  prove  that  the  copies  of  the 
law  were  already  written  in  the  square  character,  as  the 
god  of  the  ancient  alphabet  is  as  large  a letter  as  the 
(deph  ; and  the  Talmud  and  Jerome  speak  as  if  the  He- 
brew MSS.  of  the  Old  Testament  were,  in  their  time, 
already  provided  with  the  final  letters,  the  Taggin,  the 
point  on  the  broken  horizontal  stroke  of  n,  and  other 
calligraphical  minutiae. 

The  characters  in  use  before  the  Babylonian  exile 
have  been  preserved  by  the  Samaritans  even  to  the 
present  day  without  material  change  (Gesenius,  Alonum. 
Phan.  sect,  li,  1 ; comp,  on  this  subject  also  Kopp,  Uilder 
and  Schriften , ii,  sect.  165-167 ; Ewald,  Lehrbucli , sect. 
Ixxvii ; Gesenius,  Geschichte  Her  Iltbraischen  Sprache  u. 
Schrift,  sect.  41-43). 

2.  As  to  the  origin  and  authority  of  the  punctuation , 
the  controversy  which  raged  so  fiercely  in  the  17th  cen- 
tury may  be  said  now  to  have  ceased ; and  the  views 
of  Ludovicus  Cappellus,  from  the  adoption  of  which  the 
Buxtorfs  anticipated  the  most  dangerous  consequences, 
now  meet  with  almost  universal  acquiescence.  The  two 
following  conclusions  may  now  be  regarded  as  estab- 
lished : (1.)  That  the  present  punctuation  did  not  form 
an  original  part  of  the  inspired  record,  but  was  intro- 
duced by  the  Jewish  doctors  long  after  that  record  had 
been  closed,  for  the  purpose  of  preserving,  as  far  as  pos- 
sible, the  true  pronunciation  of  the  language;  and  (2.) 
That  the  present  pointed  text,  notwithstanding  its  com- 
parative recency,  presents  us  with  the  closest  possible 
approximation  to  the  language  which  the  sacred  writers 
actually  used.  It  would  be  tedious  to  go  over  the  evi- 
dence by  which  these  positions  are  established.  Those 
who  wish  to  do  so  will  find  the  fullest  information  in 
the  great  work  of  Ludovicus  Cappellus,  entitled  A rca- 
num  Punctationis  Revelation , with  the  reply  of  the  youn- 
ger Buxtorf.  Keeping  these  conclusions  in  view  in  in- 
terpreting the  Hebrew  Scriptures,  we  shall  be  careful 
neither,  on  the  one  hand,  to  neglect  the  traditional  text, 
nor,  on  the  other  hand,  servilely  to  adhere  to  it  when  a 
change  of  the  points  would  give  a better  sense  to  any 
passage. 

The  origin  of  the  vowel-points  is  to  be  ascribed  to 
the  effort  which  the  Jewish  learned  men  made  to  pre- 
! serve  the  pronunciation  of  their  sacred  language  at  a 
time  when  its  extinction  as  a living  tongue  endangered 
the  loss  of  the  traditional  memory  of  its  sound.  Every 
kind  of  evidence  renders  it  probable  that  these  signs  for 
the  pronunciation  were  first  introduced  about  the  7th 
century  of  the  Christian  aura,  that  is,  after  the  comple- 
tion of  the  Talmud,  and  that  the  minute  and  complex 
system  which  we  possess  was  gradually  developed  from 
a few  indispensable  signs  to  its  present  elaborateness. 
The  existence  of  the  present  complete  system  can,  how- 
| ever,  be  traced  back  to  the  11th  century.  The  skilful 
, investigation  of  Hupfeld  (in  the  Studien  und  Kritiken 
for  1830,  p.  549  sq.)  has  proved  that  the  vowel-points 
were  unknown  to  Jerome  and  the  Talmud ; but,  as  far 
as  regards  the  former,  we  are  able  to  make  a high  esti- 
mate of  the  degree  to  which  the  traditionary  pronunci- 
ation, prior  to  the  use  of  the  points,  accorded  with  our 
Masoretic  signs;  for  Jerome  describes  a pronunciation 
which  agrees  wonderfully  well  with  our  own  vocaliza- 
tion. We  are  thus  called  on  to  avail  ourselves  thank- 
fully of  the  Masoretic  punctuation,  on  the  double  ground 
that  it  represents  the  Jewish  traditional  pronunciation, 
and  that  the  Hebrew  language,  unless  when  read  accord- 
ing to  its  laws,  does  not  enter  into  its  full  dialectual  har- 
mony with  its  Syro- Arabian  sisters.  See  Massoraii. 

Although  it  may  be  superfluous  to  enforce  the  gener- 
al advantages,  not  to  say  indispensable  necessity,  of  a 
sound  scholarlike  study  of  the  Hebrew  language  to  the 
theological  student,  yet  it  may  be  allowable  to  enumer- 
ate some  of  those  particular  reasons,  incident  to  the 
present  time,  which  urgently  demand  an  increased  at- 
tention to  this  study.  First,  the  English-speaking  race 
have  an  ancient  honorable  name  to  retain.  Seldcn, 
Castell,  Lightfoot,  Pocock,  Walton,  Spencer,  and  Hyde, 


138 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


were  once  contemporary  ornaments  of  its  literature.  W e 
dail v see  their  names  mentioned  with  deference  in  the 
writings  of  German  scholars;  but  we  are  forcibly  struck 
with  the  fact  that,  since  that  period,  Great  Britain  has 
hardly,  with  the  exception  of  Lowth  and  Kennicott,  pro- 
duced a single  Svro- Arabian  scholar  whose  labors  have 
signally  advanced  Biblical  philology;  while  America,  al- 
though possessing  some  well-qnalilied  teachers,  has  pro- 
duced but  little  that  is  original  in  this  direction.  Sec- 
ondly, the  bold  inquiries  of  the  German  theologians  will 
force  themselves  on  our  notice.  It  is  impossible  for  us 
to  ignore  their  existence,  for  the  works  containing  them 
are  now  speedily  circulated  among  us  in  an  English  dress. 
These  investigations  are  conducted  in  a spirit  of  philo- 
logical and  historical  criticism  which  has  never  yet  been 
brought  to  bear,  with  such  force,  on  the  most  important 
Biblical  questions.  The  wounds  which  they  deal  to  the 
ancient  traditions  cannot  he  healed  by  reference  to  com- 
mentators whose  generation  knew  nothing  of  our  doubts 
and  difficulties.  The  cure  must  be  sympathetic;  it 
must  be  effected  by  the  same  weapon  that  caused  the 
wound.  If  the  monstrous  disproportion  which  books 
relating  to  ecclesiastical  antiquity  bear,  in  almost  every 
theological  bookseller’s  catalogue,  over  those  relating  to 
Biblical  philology,  be  an  evidence  of  the  degree  to  which 
these  studies  have  fallen  into  neglect,  and  if  the  few 
books  in  which  an  acquaintance  with  Hebrew  is  neces- 
sary, which  do  appear,  are  a fair  proof  of  our  present 
ability  to  meet  the  Germans  with  their  own  weapons, 
then  there  is  indeed  an  urgent  necessity  that  theological 
students  should  prepare  for  the  increased  demands  of 
the  future. 

III.  History  of  Hebrew  Learning. — It  is  not  till  the 
closing  part  of  the  9th  century  that  we  find,  even  among 
the  dews  themselves,  any  attempts  at  the  formal  study 
of  their  ancient  tongue.  In  the  Talmudic  writings,  in- 
deed, grammatical  remarks  frequently  occur,  and  oi'these 
some  indicate  an  acute  and  accurate  perception  of  the 
usages  of  the  language;  but  they  are  introduced  inci- 
dentally, and  are  to  be  traced  rather  to  a sort  of  living 
sense  of  the  language  than  to  any  scientific  study  of  its 
structure  or  laws.  What  the  Jews  of  the  Talmudic  pe- 
riod knew  themselves  of  the  Hebrew  they  communicated 
to  Origen  and  Jerome,  both  of  whom  devoted  themselves 
with  much  zeal  to  the  study  of  that  language,  and  the 
latter  of  whom  especially  became  proficient  in  all  that 
his  masters  could  teach  him  concerning  both  its  vocab- 
ulary and  its  grammar  (Eusebius, Hist.  Levies.;  Jerome, 
A fir.  Bujin.  i,  303;  Epist.ad  Damns.;  Prof,  ad  Jobum , 
ad  Pandipom.  etc. ; Carpzov,  Crit.  Lac.  vi,  § 2).  As  rep- 
resented by  Jerome,  the  Church  was  quite  on  a par  with 
the  synagogue  in  acquaintance  with  the  language  of  the 
ancient  Scriptures;  but  how  imperfect  that  was  in  many 
respects  may  be  seen  from  the  strange  etymologies, 
which  even  .Jerome  adduces  as  explanatory  of  words, 
and  from  his  statement  that  from  the  want  of  vowels  in 
Hebrew  “ the  Jews  pronounce  the  same  words  with  dif- 
ferent. sounds  and  accents,  pro  raluntate  lectornm  ac  t'o- 
r’ntate  regionuni " ( Lp.  ad  L.eungehim). 

Stimulated  by  the  example  of  the  Arabians,  the  Jews 
began,  towards  the  end  of  the  9th  century,  to  bestow 
careful  study  on  the  grammar  of  their  ancient  tongue; 
and  with  this  advantage  over  the  Arabian  grammarians, 
that  they  did  not,  like  them,  confine  their  attention  to 
one  language,  but  took  into  account  the  whole  of  the 
Shcinit ie  tongues.  An  African  Jew,  Jchuda  beu-Karish, 
who  lived  about  A.D.8Xt),l<*d  the  way  in  this  direction; 
but  it  was  reserved  for  Saadia  hcn-Josoph  of  Fayum, 
gaon  (or  spiritual  head)  of  the  Jews  at  Sora  in  Baby- 
lonia, and  who  died  A.l).  942,  to  compose  the  first  for- 
mal treatise  on  points  of  Hebrew  grammar  ami  philolo- 
gy. To  him  we  arc  indebted  for  the  Arabic  version  of 
tlie  O.T.,  of  which  portions  arc  still  extant  [sec  Auauio 
Vkusions]  ; and  though  his  other  works,  his  commen- 
taries on  the  O.  T.,  and  his  grammatical  works,  have 
not  come  down  to  us,  we  know  of  their  existence  from, 
and  have  still  some  of  their  contents  in,  the  citations  of 


later  writers.  He  was  followed  by  R.  Jehuda  ben-Da- 
vid  Cliajug,  a native  of  Fez,  who  flourished  in  the  11th 
century,  whose  services  have  procured  for  him  the  hon- 
orable "designation  of  “chief  of  grammarians.”  From 
him  the  succession  of  Jewish  grammarians  embraces  the 
following  names  [for  details,  see  separate  articles].  R. 
Salomo  Isaaki  (ish,  Rashi),  a native  of  Troyes  in 
France,  d.  ab.  1105 ; Abu’l  Walid  Mcrvan  ibn-Ganach,  a 
physician  at  Cordova,  d.  1120 ; Moses  Gikatilla,  ab.  1100; 
Ibn-Esra,  d.  1194;  the  Kimchis,  especially  Moses  and 
David,  who  flourished  in  the  13th  century;  Isaak  ben- 
Mose  (Ephodicus,  so  called  from  the  title  of  his  work 
VESt  Solomon  Jarchi  wrote  a grammar,  in 

which  he  sets  forth  the  seven  conjugations  of  verbs  as 
now  usually  given  ; Abraham  de  Ralmez  of  Lecei ; and 
Elias  Levita  (1472-1549).  The  earliest  efforts  in  He- 
brew lexicography  with  which  we  are  acquainted  is  the 
little  work  of'  Saadia  Gaon,  in  which  he  explains  seven- 
ty Hebrew  words;  a codex  containing  this  is  in  the 
Bodleian  library  at  Oxford,  from  which  it  has  been  print- 
ed by  Dukes  in  the  Zeitschrift  fur  die-  Kunde  des  Nor- 
genlundes,  V,  i,  115  sq.  In  the  same  codex  is  anoth- 
er small  lexicographical  work  by  Jehuda  ben-Karish,  in 
which  Hebrew  words  are  explained  from  the  Talmud, 
the  Arabic,  and  other  languages;  excerpts  from  this  are 
given  in  Eichhorn’s  Biblioth.  der  Bill.  Lift,  iii,  951-980. 
5 lore  copious  works  are  those  of  Ben-Ganach,  where  the 
Hebrew  words  are  explained  in  Arabic;  of  R. Menahem 
ibn-Saruk,  whose  work  has  been  printed  with  an  Eng- 
lish translation  bv  Herschell  Philipowski  (Lond.  1854); 
of  II.  Salomo  Parchon  (about  1100),  specimens  of  whose 
work  have  been  given  by  De  Rossi  in  his  collection  of 
Various  Readings,  and  in  a separate  work  entitled  Lex- 
icon Heb.  select,  quo  ex  aufigtto  et  inedito  P.  Purehonis 
Lexico  novas  ct  di  versus  variorum  et  diffieiliorum  vocnm 
signif cat  tones  sistit,  J.  B.  De  Rossi  ( Tarm.  1805) ; of  Da- 
vid Kimchi,  in  the  second  part  of  his  Jlichlol,  entitled 
“E5  (often  printed;  best  edition  by  Biesen- 
tlial  and  Leberecht,  2 vols.  Berl.  1838-47);  and  of  Elias 
Levita  (Tis/ibi,  Bas.  1527',  and  with  a Latin  translation 
by  Fagius,  4to,  1541).  The  Concordance  of  Isaac  Na- 
than (1437)  also  belongs  to  this  period. 

The  study  of  the  Hebrew  language  among  Christians, 
which  had  only  casually  and  at  intervals  occupied  the 
attention  of  ecclesiastics  during  the  Middle  Ages,  re- 
ceived an  impulse,  from  the  revived  interest  in  Biblical 
exegesis  produced  by  the  Reformation.  Something  had 
been  done  to  facilitate  the  study  of  Oriental  literature 
and  to  call  attention  to  it  by  the  MSS.,  Hebrew  and 
Arabic,  which  the  emperor  Frederick  II  brought  into 
Europe  alter  the  fourth  crusade  in  1228  (Cuspinian,  De 
Ceesaribus,  p.  419;  Boxhorn,  Hist.  Unit'.  p.  779);  and  a 
few  men — such  as  Raymund  Martini,  a native  of  Cata- 
lonia (bom  1230),  Paultis  Bugensis,  Libertas  Cominetus, 
who  is  said  to  have  known  and  used  fourteen  languages, 
etc. — appeared  as  lights  in  the  otherwise  beclouded  fir- 
mament of  Biblical  learning.  But  it  was  not  until  the 
beginning  of  the  10th  century  that  any  general  interest 
was  awakened  in  the  Christian  Church  for  the  study  of 
Hebrew  literature.  In  1506  appeared  the  grammar  and 
lexicon  of  Rencldin,  which  may  be  regarded  as  the  first 
successful  attempt  to  open  the  gate  of  Hebrew  learning 
to  the  Christian  world;  for  though  the  work  of  Conrad 
Pell  lean,  De  Modo  legend i et  intelligendi  llebreea  (Basel, 
1503),  had  the  precedence  in  point  of  time,  it  was  too 
imperfect  to  exert,  much  influence  in  favor  of  Hebrew 
studies.  A few  years  later,  Sautes  Pagnini,  a Domini- 
can of  Lucca,  issued  his  Institntionum  Hebraicarum  Libb. 
iv  (Lyons,  15264,  and  his  Thesaurus  Ling.  Band.  (ibid. 
1529);  but  the  former  of  these  works  is  inferior  to  the 
Grammar  of  Rouchlin,  and  the  latter  is  a mere  collec- 
tion of  excerpts  from  David  Kimchi’s  Book  of  Boots, 
often  erroneously  understood.  No  name  of  any  impor- 
tance occurs  in  the  history  of  Hebrew  philology  after 
this  till  we  come  to  those  of  Sebastian  Miinstor  and  the 
, Buxtorfs.  The  former  translated  the  grammatical  works 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


139 


HEBREW  LANGUAGE 


of  Elias  Levita,  and  from  these  chiefly  he  constructed 
his  own  Didionarum  Hebr.,  adj.  Chald.  eocabulis  (Basel, 
15-J3),  and  his  Opus  Grammaticum  ex  variis  Elianis  li- 
bris  concinmtum  (Bas.  154*2).  The  latter  rendered  most 
important  service  to  the  cause  of  Hebrew  learning.  See 
Buxtokk.  The  grammars  and  lexicons  of  the  older 
Buxtorf  were  for  many  years  the  principal  helps  to  the 
study  of  Hebrew  in  the  Christian  Church,  and  one  of 
them,  his  Lexicon  Chald.  Talmud,  et  Rabbinicum  (Basel, 
1040),  is  still  indispensable  to  the  student  who  would 
thoroughly  explore  the  Hebrew  language  and  litera- 
ture. The  names  also  of  Forster  and  Schindler  may  be 
mentioned  as  marking  an  epoch  in  the  history  of  these 
studies.  Previous  to  them  scholars  bad  followed  almost 
slavishly  in  the  track  of  rabbinical  teaching.  By  them, 
however,  an  attempt  was  made  to  gather  materials  from 
a wider  held.  Forster,  in  his  Did.  Hebr.  Xor.  (Basel, 
1557),  sought  to  determine  the  meaning  of  the  words 
from  the  comparison  of  the  different  passages  of  Scrip- 
ture in  which  they  occur,  and  of  allied  words,  words 
having  two  consonants  in  common,  or  two  consonants 
of  the  same  organ.  Schindler  added  to  this  the  com- 
parison of  different  Shemitic  dialects  for  the  illustration 
of  the  Hebrew  in  his  Lex.  Pentaglotton  (Ilan.  1012). 
The  example  thus  set  was  carried  forward  by  Sam. 
Bolile,  a Rostock  professor  ( Dissertt . pro  formal i Signif. 

S.  S.  eruenda,  1637),  though  by  his  fondness  for  meta- 
physical methods  and  conceits  he  was  often  betrayed 
into  more  trilling;  by  Christian  Nolde,  professor  at  Co- 
penhagen ( Concordant . particulurum  Ebrteo.  Chald.  F. 

T.  Hainb.  1079);  by  Joh.  Coeceius  (Coch),  professor  at 
Leyden  {Lex.  et  Comment,  serm.  Hebr.  Lond.  1009);  by 
Castell  {Lex.  Heptaglot.  Lond.  1009) ; by  De  Dieu  in  his 
commentaries  on  the  O.  Test.;  and  by  Ilottinger  in  his 
Etymologicum  Orient,  sice  Lex  harmonicum  heptaglot. 
(Frankf.  1001).  Sol.  Glass  also,  in  his  Philologia  Sacra, 
1030,  rendered  important  service  to  Hebrew  learning 
and  O.-T.  exegesis. 

Meanwhile  a new  school  of  Hebrew  philology  had 
arisen  under  the  leading  of  Jakob  Alting  and  Johann 
Andr.  Danz.  The  former  in  his  Fundamenta  puncta- 
tionis  lingua!  sanette  sice  Grammat.  Hebr,  (Grdn.  1054), 
and  the  latter  in  his  Xucifrttngibulum  (Jena,  1080),  and 
other  works,  endeavored  to  show  that  the  phenomena 
which  the  Hebrew  exhibited  in  a grammatical  respect, 
the  flexions,  etc.,  had  their  basis  in  essential  properties 
of  the  language,  and  could  be  rationally  evolved  from 
principles.  Peculiar  to  them  is  the  “systema  mora- 
rirai,”  a highly  artificial  method  of  determining  the 
placing  of  long  or  short  vowels,  according  to  the  number 
of  rnoree  appertaining  to  each  or  to  the  consonant  fol- 
lowing, a method  which  led  to  endless  niceties,  and  no 
small  amount  of  learned  trifling.  The  fundamental 
principle,  however,  which  Alting  and  Danz  asserted  is 
a true  one,  and  their  assertion  of  it  was  not  without 
fruits.  Nearly  contemporary  with  them  was  Jacques 
Gousset,  professor  at  Groningen,  who  devoted  much 
time  and  labor  to  the  preparation  of  a work  entitled 
Comment  aril  Ling.  Heb.  (Am.st.  1702),  in  which  he  fol- 
lows strictly  the  method  of  deducing  the  meanings  of 
the  Hebrew  words  from  the  Hebrew  itself,  rejecting  all 
aid  from  rabbins,  versions,  or  dialects.  The  chief  merit 
of  Gousset  and  his  followers,  of  whom  the  principal  is 
Chr.  Stock  {Claris  Ling.  Sand.  V.  et  X.  Ti.  Lips.  1725), 
consists  in  the  close  attention  they  paid  to  the  usus  l<>- 
qnendi  of  Scripture,  and  Havcmick  thinks  that  adequate 
justice  has  nut  been  done  to  Gousset’s  services  in  this 
respect  {I nt rod.  to  O.  T.  p.  221.  Eng.  trans.). 

Hitherto  not  much  attention  had  been  paid  to  etv- 
mology  as  a source  for  determining  the  meaning  of 
Hebrew  words.  This  defect  was  in  part  remedied  by 
Caspar  Neumann  and  Valentin  Lbscher,  the  former  of 
whom  in  different  treatises,  the  latter  in  his  treatise  De 
Causis  Ling.  Heb.  (Frankf.  and  Leipsic,  1700),  set  forth 
the  principle  that  the  Hebrew  roots  are  biliterce,  that 
these  are  the  “ characters  significationis,”  as  Neumann 
called  them,  or  the  “ semina  vocum,”  as  they  were  des- 


I ignated  by  Lbseher,  and  that  from  them  the  triliterals, 
of  which  the  Hebrew  is  chiefly  composed,  were  formed. 

| They  contended  also  that  the  fundamental  meaning  of 
the  biliterals  is  to  be  ascertained  from  the  meaning  of 
the  letters  composing  each,  and  for  this  purpose  they 
assigned  to  each  letter  what  the  former  called  “ signiti- 
catio  hieroglvphica,”  and  the  latter  “valor  logicus.” 
This  last  is  the  most  dubious  part  of  their  system ; but, 
as  a whole,  their  views  are  worthy  of  respect  and  con- 
sideration (see  llupfeld,  De  emendanda  lexicog.Semit.ru- 
tione,  p.  3). 

A great  advance  was  made  in  the  beginning  of  the 
18th  century  by  the  rise  almost  simidtaneously  of  two 
rival  schools  of  Hebrew  philology — the  Dutch  school, 
headed  by  Albert  Schultens,  and  the  school  of  Ilalle, 
founded  by  the  Michaelis  family.  In  the  former  the 
predominating  tendency  was  towards  the  almost  exclu- 
sive use  of  the  Arabic  for  the  illustration  of  Hebrew 
grammar  and  lexicography.  Schultens  himself  was  a 
thorough  Arabic  scholar,  and  he  carried  his  principle 
of  appealing  to  that  source  for  the  elucidation  of  the 
Hebrew  to  an  extent  which  betrayed  him  into  many 
mistakes  and  extravagances;  nevertheless,  to  his  labors 
Hebrew  philology  owes  an  imperishable  debt  of  obliga- 
tion. Besides  his  commentaries  on  Job  and  Vrovcrbs, 
which  are  full  of  grammatical  and  lexicographical  dis- 
quisition, he  wrote  Origines  Hebr  tea!  seu  Heb.  Ling,  anti - 
guissima  natura  et  indoles  ex  Arabice  penetralibus  revo - 
cat  a (Frankfort,  1723),  and  Institutiones  ad  fundamenta 
Ling.  Heb.  (Leyd.  1737).  To  this  school  belongs  Schro- 
der, professor  at  Groningen,  who  published  in  1776  a 
( Hebrew  grammar  of  great  excellence,  and  which  has 
, passed  through  many  editions,  under  the  same  title  as 
the  second  of  the  works  of  Schultens  above  noted ; and 
| Robertson,  professor  at  Edinburgh  {Gi'ammatica  Hebr. 
| Edinb.  1783,  2d  ed.).  Both  these  works  excel  that  of 
I Schultens  in  clearness  and  simplicity,  and  in  neither  is 
the  Arabic  theory  so  exclusively  adhered  to.  Venema, 
as  a commentator,  was  also  one  of  the  luminaries  of  this 
school. 

The  school  of  Hallo  was  founded  by  Johann  Heinrich 
and  Christian  Benedikt  Michaelis,  but  its  principal  orna- 
ment in  its  earlier  stage  ivas  the  son  of  the  latter,  John 
David,  professor  at  Gottingen.  See  Michaelis.  The 
principle  of  this  school  was  to  combine  the  use  of  all  the 
sources  of  elucidation  for  the  Hebrew — the  cognate  dia- 
lects, especially  the  Aramaic,  the  versions,  the  rabbin- 
ical writings,  etymology,  and  the  Hebrew  itself  as  ex- 
hibited in  the  sacred  writings.  The  valuable  edition  of 
the  Hebrew  Bible,  with  exegetieal  notes,  the  conjoint 
work  of  J.  H.  and  Christ.  B.  Michaelis,  some  grammat- 
ical essays  by  the  latter,  and  the  Ilebraische  Gramma- 
tik  (llalie,  17*44),  the  Supplementa  ad  lexica  Hebraica  (6 
parts,  Gott.  1785-92),  anil  several  smaller  essays  of  John 
David,  comprise  the  principal  contributions  of  this  illus- 
trious family  to  Hebrew  learning.  To  their  school  be- 
long the  majority  of  more  recent  German  Hebraists — 
Moser  {Lex.  Man.  Heb.  et  Chald.  Ulm,  1795),  Vat er  {Heb. 
Sprachlehre,  Lpz.  1797),  Hartmann  {A nfangsgriinde  tier 
Heb.  Sprache,  Marburg,  1798),  Jalin  {Grammatica  Ling. 
Heb.  1809),  and  the  facile  princeps  of  the  whole,  Gese- 
nius  {Hebr.  Deutsches  Handled  rterbueh,  Lpz.  1810-12,  and 
later;  Heb.  Grammutik,\\aWo,  1813,  and  often  since;  Ge- 
srhichte  der  Heb.  Spr.  und  Schrift,  1815,  and  since;  .1  us- 
fuhrliches  Gram.-Krit.  Lehrgebautle  der  Heb.  Spr.  1817 ; 
Lexicon  Mannale,  1833,  and  later;  Thesaurus  Phil.  C'rit. 
Ling.  Hebr.  et  Chald.  Lpz.  1835-1858).  See  Gesexius. 
Gesenius  has  been  followed  closely  by  Moses  Stuart  in 
bis  Grammar  of  the  Hebrew  Language,  of  which  many 
editions  have  appeared.  Older  the  Halle  school  may 
also  be  ranked  Joh.  Simonis  {Onomast.  Yet.  Test.  Ilalle, 
1741;  Lexicon  Man.  Heb.  et  Chald.  1750;  re-edited  by 
Eichhorn  in  1793,  and  with  valuable  improvements  by 
Winer  in  1828) ; but,  though  a pupil  of  Michaelis,  Si- 
monis shows  a strong  leaning  towards  the  school  of 
Schultens. 

Among  recent  Hebraists  the  name  of  Lee  {Grammar 


HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO  140  HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 


of  the  lleb.  Lang,  in  a Senes  of  Lectures , Lend.  3d  edit. 
1844;  Lexicon  lleb.  Chald.  and  Engl.  1840),  Ewald  (AnV. 
Gramm,  der  lleb.  Spr.  A usfiihrlich  bearbeitet,  Lpz.  1827 ; 
7th  ed.  1863,  under  the  title  of  .1  usfuhrliehes  Lehrb.  der  \ 
lleb.  Spr.  des  A.  />'.),  and  Ilupfeld  (Exercitationes xEthi- 
ojriccv , 1825;  l)e  emend.  Lexicogr.  Sem.  ratione  Comment. 
1827 ; Eeber  Theorie  der  lleb.  Gr.  in  the  Theol.  Studien  I 
tind  Kritiken  for  1828;  A usf.  llebr.  Gram.  1841),  are  the 
most  prominent.  Each  of  these  pursues  an  independent 
course,  hut  all  of  them  incline  more  or  less  to  the  school 
of  Alt  in?  and  Danz.  Lee  avows  that  the  aim  of  his 
grammatical  investigations  is  to  “study  the  language 
as  it  is,  that  is,  as  its  own  analogy  collected  from  itself 
and  its  cognate  dialects  exhibits  it”  ( Grammar , Pref.  p. 
iv,  new  ed.  1844).  Ewald  has  combined  with  his  phil- 
osophical analysis  of  the  language,  as  it  exists  in  its 
own  documents,  a more  extended  use  of  the  cognate  di- 
alects; he  contends  that,  to  do  justice  to  the  Hebrew, 
one  must  first  be  at  home  in  all  the  branches  of  Shemit-  , 
ic  literature,  and  that  it  is  by  combining  these  with  the 
old  Hebrew  that  the  latter  is  to  be  called  from  the  dead, 
and  piece  by  piece  endowed  with  life  ( Grammatik , Pref. 
p.  ix).  Hupfcld’s  method  is  eclectic,  and  does  not  dif- 
fer from  that  of  Gesenius,  except  that  it  assigns  a larger 
influence  to  the  philosophic  element,  and  aims  more  at 
basing  the  grammar  of  the  language  on  first  principles 
analytically  determined ; by  him  also  the  Japhetic  lan- 
guages have  been  called  in  to  cast  light  on  the  Shemit  ic, 
a coarse  to  which  Gesenius  too,  after  formally  repudia- 
ting it,  came  in  his  later  works  to  incline. 

Among  the  Jews,  the  study  of  Hebrew  literature  has 
been  much  fettered  by  rabbinical  and  traditional  preju- 
dices. Many  able  grammarians,  however,  of  this  school 
have  appeared  since  the  beginning  of  the  16th  century, 
among  whom  the  names  of  the  brothers  David  and  Mo- 
sc-3  ProveiK;.ale,  Lonzano  Norzi,  Ben-Melech,  Siisskind, 
and  Lombroso  are  especially  to  be  mentioned.  A more 
liberal  impulse  was  communicated  by  Solomon  Cohen 
(1709-62),  but  Mendelssohn  was  the  first  to  introduce 
the  results  and  methods  of  Christian  research  among  his 
nation.  Eiirst  ( Lehrgeb . d.  A ram.  Idiome  mit  Ilezug  auf 
die  Jndo-Germ.  Spr.  1.  Chald.  Gram.  1835;  Charuze  Pe- 
ninim , 1836;  Concordanticn  Libr.  Vet.  Test.  1840;  llebr. 
vnd  Chald.  llandworterbuch  iiber  der  A.T.2  vols.  1857) 
seeks  to  combine  the  historical  with  the  analytical 
method,  taking  note  of  all  the  phenomena  of  the  He- 
brew itself,  illustrating  these  from  the  cognate  tongues, 
and  those  of  the  Indo-Germanic  class,  and  at  the  same 
time  endeavoring  on  philosophic  grounds  to  separate  the 
accidental  from  the  necessary,  the  radical  from  the  ram- 
ified, the  germ  from  the  stem,  the  stem  from  the  branch- 
es, so  as  to  arrive  at  the  laws  which  actually  rule  the 
language.  All  his  works  are  of  the  highest  value.  Mr. 
llorwitz  has  also  published  an  excellent  lleb.  Grammar 
(Loud.  1835).  We  especially  notice  the  philosophical 
method  pursued  by  Nordheimor  (lleb.  Grammar,  N.  V. 
18.38-42,  2 vols.  8vo).  The  latest  Jewish  production  in 
English  is  Kali  soli's  Hebrew  Gramm.  (Loml.  18(53,  8vo). 

.See  generally  Wolf,  HiUioth.  llebr.  (1715-53);  Lo- 
nelier, He  t 'a  us  is  Ling.  Ehr.  (170(5);  Bezel,  Grach,  der 
llebr.  Spr.  vnd  Litter.  (1776) ; Gesenius,  Gesch.  d.  llebr. 
Spr.  (181.));  Delitzsch,  .leslmrun,  Isagoge  in  Gramm,  et 
Lexicogr.  lingiur  llebr.  (1838);  Eiirst,  ikbliofh.  .I/idaicn, 
passim ; also  his  appendix  on  Jewish  Lexicography  to 
his  Lex.  llebr. ; Steinsehneider,  Jeicish  Literature,  per. 
ii.  $ l<>;  per.  iii,  § 27 ; liibiiugraph.  llandbuch  jnr  llebr. 
Sprachk.  (Lpz.  1859,  8vo).  See  Kukmitic  Lanouauks. 

Hebrews,  The  EPISTLE  TO  the,  the  last  of  the 
Pauline  Epistles,  according  to  the  arrangement  of  the 
Received  Text  of  the  New  Testament. 

1.  Its  Camminty. — The  universal  Church,  by  allowing 
it  a place  among  the  holy  Scriptures,  acknowledges  that 
there  is  nothing  in  its  contents  inconsistent  with  the 
rest  of  the  Bible.  But  the  peculiar  position  which  is 
assigned  to  it  among  the  epistles  shows  a trace  of  doubts 
as  to  its  authorship  or  canonical  authority,  two  points 
which  were  blended  together  in  primitive  times.  Has 


it,  then,  a just  claim  to  be  received  by  us  as  a portion  of 
that  Bible  which  contains  the  rule  of  our  faith  and  the 
ride  of  our  practice,  laid  down  by  Christ  and  his  apos- 
tles ? Was  it  regarded  as  such  by  the  primitive  Church, 
to  whose  clearly  expressed  judgment  in  this  matter  all 
later  generations  of  Christians  agree  to  defer?  Of 
course,  if  we  possessed  a declaration  by  an  inspired  apos- 
tle that  this  epistle  is  canonical,  all  discussion  would  be 
superfluous.  But  the  interpretation  (by  F.  Spanheim 
and  later  writers)  of  2 Pet.  iii,  15  as  a distinct  reference 
to  Paul's  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  seems  scarcely  tenable. 
For,  if  the  “you”  whom  Peter  addresses  be  all  Chris- 
tians (see  2 Pet.  i.  1),  the  reference  must  not  be  limited 
to  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews;  or  if  it  include  only 
(see  2 Pet.  iii,  1)  the  Jews  named  in  1 Pet.  i,  1,  there 
may  be  special  reference  to  the  Galatians  (vi,  7-9)  and 
Ephesians  (ii,  3-5),  but  not  to  the  Hebrews.  Was  it, 
then,  received  and  transmitted  as  canonical  by  the  im- 
mediate successors  of  the  apostles? 

In  the  Western  Church  this  book  underwent  a some- 
what singular  treatment.  The  most  important  witness 
here,  Clement  of  Rome  (A.D.  70  or  95)  refers  to  this 
epistle  in  the  same  way  as,  and  more  frequently  than, 
to  any  other  canonical  book.  It  seems  to  have  been 
“ wholly  transfused,”  says  Mr.  Westcott  (On  the  Canon , 
p.  32),  into  Clement’s  mind.  After  his  time  it  seems  to 
have  come  under  some  doubt  or  suspicion  in  the  West. 
It  is  not  cited  or  referred  to  by  any  of  the  earlier  Latin 
I fathers  except  Tertullian,  who  ascribes  it  to  Barnabas, 

I and  says  it  was  “ receptior  apud  ecclesias  illo  apocryplio 
pastore  moschorum,”  that  is,  the  pastor  of  Hermas  (De 
] rudicit.  c.  20).  Irenaeus  is  said  by  Eusebius  to  have 
made  quotations  from  it  in  a work  now  lost  (Hist.  Eccl. 
v,  26),  but  he  did  not  receive  it  as  of  Pauline  author- 
ship (Phot.  Bibliotli.  Cod.  252,  p.  904,  cited  by  Lardner, 
ii,  165) ; and  as  Eusebius  connects  the  'Wisdom  of  Solo- 
mon with  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  as  cited  by  Ire- 
nieus,  it  is  probable  the  latter  viewed  the  two  as  on  the 
same  footing.  It  is  omitted  by  Caius,  who  only  reck- 
ons thirteen  Pauline  epistles  (Euseb.  Hist.  Eccl.  vi,  26; 
Jerome,  De  Vir.  illust.  c.  59) ; Hippolytus  expressly  de- 
clares it  not  to  be  Paul’s  (Phot,  p,  301) ; it  is  omitted  in 
the  Muratori  fragment ; and  by  the  Roman  Church  gen- 
erally it  seems  to  have  been  suspected  (Euseb.  11.  E.  iii, 
3 ; vi,  20).  Yietorinus  has  one  or  two  passages  which 
look  like  quotations  from  it,  but  he  does  not  mention  it. 
and  certainly  did  not  receive  it  as  the  work  of  Paul 
(Lardner,  iii,  300).  In  the  4tli  century  it  began  to  be 
more  generally  received.  Lactantins,  in  the  beginning 
of  the  century,  apparently  borrows  from  it;  Hilary  of 
Poictiers,  Lucifer  of  Cagliari,  Faustinus,  and  Marcellinus 
(who  cites  it  as  divina  Scriptura) ; Yietorinus  of  Rome, 
Ambrose,  Philaster  (though  admitting  that  some  reject- 
ed the  epistle)  ; Gaudentius,  Jerome,  and  Augustine,  in 
the  latter  half  and  the  end  of  the  century,  attest  its  can- 
onicity,  and  generally  its  Pauline  origin. 

In  the  Eastern  churches  it  was  much  more  generally, 
and  from  an  earlier  date,  received.  It  is  doubtful  wheth- 
er any  citation  from  it  is  made  by  Justin  Martyr,  though 
in  one  or  two  passages  of  his  writings  he  seems  to  have 
had  it  in  his  eye.  Clement  of  Alexandria  held  it  to  be 
Paul’s,  originally  written  by  him  in  Hebrew,  and  trans- 
lated by  Luke  (Eusebius,  11.  E.v i,  14).  Origen  wrote 
homilies  on  this  epistle;  he  frequently  refers  to  it  as  ca- 
nonical, and  as  the  work  of  Paul,  and  he  tells  us  he  had 
intended  to  write  a treatise  to  prove  this  (Lardner,  ii, 
172  sip).  Origen  further  attests  that  the  ancients  hand- 
ed it  down  as  Paul’s  (Euseb.  11.  E.  vi,  25),  by  which, 
though  he  cannot  be  understood  as  intending  to  say  that 
it  had  never  been  questioned  by  any  of  those  who  had 
lived  before  him,  we  must  understand  him  at  least  to 
aflirm  that  in  the  Church  of  Alexandria  it  had  from  the 
earliest  period  been  received.  Dionysius  of  Alexandria 
acknowledged  it  as  part  of  sacred  Scripture,  and  as 
written  by  Paul.  By  Basil,  the  Gregories,  Theodore  of 
Mopsuestia,  Chrysostom,  and  all  the  Greeks,  as  Jerome 
attests,  it  was  received.  Eusebius,  though  he  ranks  it 


HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO  141  HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 


in  one  place  among  the  avnXey optva,  in  deference  to 
the  doubts  entertained  respecting  it  in  the  Iloman 
Church,  nevertheless  asserts  its  apostolic  authority,  and 
includes  it  among  the  hooks  generally  received  bv  the 
churches.  In  public  documents  of  the  Eastern  Church 
also,  such  as  the  Epistle  of  the  Synod  at  Antioch,  the 
Apostolical  Constitutions,  the  Catalogue  of  the  Council, 
its  claims  are  recognised.  In  the  Syrian  churches  it 
was  received;  it  is  found  in  the  Peshito  version;  it  is 
quoted  by  Ephrem  as  Paul’s ; and  it  is  included  among 
the  canonical  Scriptures  in  the  catalogue  of  Ebedjesu 
(Lardner,  iv,  430, 440).  To  this  uniform  testimony  there 
is  nothing  to  oppose,  unless  we  accept  the  somewhat  du- 
bious assertion  of  Jerome  that  it  was  rejected  by  the 
heretical  teacher  Basilides  (Proem,  in  Ep.  ud  Tit.,'  but 
compare  Lardner,  ix,  305). 

At  the  end  of  the  4th  century,  Jerome,  the  most 
learned  and  critical  of  the  Latin  fathers,  reviewed  the 
conflicting  opinions  as  to  the  authority  of  this  epistle, 
lie  considered  that  the  prevailing,  though  not  univer- 
sal view  of  the  Latin  churches  was  of  less  weight  than 
the  view  not  only  of  ancient  writers,  but  also  of  all  the 
Greek  and  all  the  Eastern  churches,  where  the  epistle 
was  received  as  canonical  and  read  daily ; and  he  pro- 
nounced a decided  opinion  in  favor  of  its  authority. 
The  great  contemporary  light  of  North  Africa,  St.  Au- 
gustine, held  a similar  opinion.  And  after  the  declara- 
tion of  these  two  eminent  men,  the  Latin  churches 
united  with  the  East  in  receiving  the  epistle.  The  third 
Council  of  Carthage,  A.D.  397,  and  a decretal  of  pope 
Innocent,  A.D.  416,  gave  a final  confirmation  to  their 
decision. 

Such  was  the  course  and  the  end  of  the  only  consid- 
erable opposition  which  has  been  made  to  the  canonical 
authority  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews.  Its  origin  has 
not  been  ascertained.  Some  critics  have  conjectured 
that  the  Montanist  or  the  Novatian  controversy  insti- 
gated, and  that  the  Arian  controversy  dissipated  so 
much  opposition  as  proceeded  from  orthodox  Chris- 
tians. The  references  to  Paul  in  the  Clementine  Hom- 
ilies have  led  other  critics  to  the  startling  theory  that 
orthodox  Christians  at  Rome,  in  the  middle  of  the  2d 
century,  commonly  regarded  and  described  Paul  as  an 
enemy  of  the  faith — a theory  which,  if  it  were  estab- 
lished, would  be  a much  stranger  fact  than  the  rejec- 
tion of  the  least  accredited  of  the  epistles  that  bear  the 
apostle’s  name.  But  perhaps  it  is  more  probable  that 
that  jealous  care  with  which  the  Church  everywhere, 
in  the  2d  century,  had  learned  to  scrutinize  ail  books 
claiming  canonical  authority,  misled,  in  this  instance, 
the  churches  of  North  Africa  and  Rome.  For  to  them 
this  epistle  was  an  anonymous  writing,  unlike  an  epis- 
tle in  its  opening,  lmlike  a treatise  in  its  end,  differing 
in  its  style  from  every  apostolic  epistle,  aboiunling  in 
arguments  and  appealing  to  sentiments  which  were  al- 
ways foreign  to  the  Gentile,  and  growing  less  familiar 
to  the  Jewish  mind.  So  they  went  a step  beyond  the 
church  of  Alexandria,  which,  while  doubting  the  au- 
thorship of  this  epistle,  always  acknowledged  its  author- 
ity. The  church  of  Jerusalem,  as  the  original  receiver 
of  the  epistle,  was  the  depositor}"  of  that  oral  testimony 
on  which  both  its  authorship  and  canonical  authority 
rested,  and  was  the  fountain  head  of  information  which 
satisfied  the  Eastern  and  Greek  churches.  But  the 
church  of  Jerusalem  was  early  hidden  in  exile  and  ob- 
scurity. And  Palestine,  after  the  destruction  of  Jeru- 
salem, became  unknown  ground  to  that  class  of  “ dwell- 
ers in  Libya  about  Gyrene,  and  strangers  of  Rome,” 
who  once  maintained  close  religious  intercourse  with  it. 
All  these  considerations  may  help  to  account  for  the  fact 
that  the  Latin  churches  hesitated  to  receive  an  epistle, 
the  credentials  of  which,  from  peculiar  circumstances, 
were  originally  imperfect,  and  had  become  inaccessible 
to  them  when  their  version  of  Scripture  was  in  process 
of  formation,  until  religious  intercourse  between  East 
and  West  again  grerv  frequent  and  intimate  in  the  4th 
century. 


Cardinal  Cajetan,  the  opponent  of  Luther,  was  the 
first  to  disturb  the  tradition  of  a thousand  years,  anil  to 
deny  the  authority  of  this  epistle.  Erasmus,  Calvin, 
and  Beza  questioned  only  its  authorship.  The  bolder 
spirit  of  Luther,  unable  to  perceive  its  agreement  with 
Paul’s  doctrine,  pronounced  it  to  be  the  work  of  some 
disciple  of  the  apostle,  who  had  built  not  only  gold,  sil- 
ver, and  precious  stones,  but  also  wood,  hay,  and  stubble 
upon  his  master’s  foundation.  And  vdiereas  the  Greek 
Church  in  the  4th  century  gave  it  sometimes  the  tenth 
place,  or  at  other  times,  as  it  now'  does,  and  as  the  Syr- 
ian, Roman,  and  English  churches  do,  the  fourteenth 
place  among  the  epistles  of  Paul,  Luther,  when  he  print- 
ed his  version  of  the  Bible,  separated  this  book  from 
Paul’s  epistles,  and  placed  it  with  the  epistles  of  James 
and  Jude,  next  before  the  Revelation;  indicating  by 
this  change  of  order  liis  opinion  that  the  four  relegated 
books  are  of  less  importance  and  less  authority  than  the 
rest  of  the  New  Testament,  llis  opinion  found  some 
promoters,  but  it  has  not  been  adopted  in  any  confession 
of  the  Lutheran  Church. 

The  canonical  authority  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews 
is,  then,  secure,  so  far  as  it  can  be  established  by  the 
tradition  of  Christian  churches.  The  doubts  which  af- 
fected it  were  admitted  in  remote  places,  or  in  the  fail- 
ure of  knowledge,  or  under  the  pressure  of  times  of  in- 
tellectual excitement ; and  they  have  disappeared  before 
full  information  and  calm  judgment. 

II.  Authorship.— From  the  above  testimonies  it  will 
be  perceived  that  the  assertion  of  the  canonicity  of  this 
book  is  mostly  identified  with  the  assertion  of  its  Paid- 
ine  authorship.  The  former  of  these  positions  does  not, 
it  is  true,  necessarily  depend  upon  the  latter,  for  a book 
may  be  canonical,  yet  not  be  the  production  of  any  indi- 
vidual whose  name  we  know ; but,  as  the  case  stands, 
the  external  evidence  for  the  canonicity  of  the  book  is 
so  nearly  commensurate  with  that  for  the  Pauline  au- 
thorship of  the  hook  that  we  cannot  make  use  of  the 
one  unless  we  admit  the  other.  This  gives  immense 
importance  to  the  question  on  which  we  now  enter;  for 
if  it  coidil  be  shown  that  this  epistle  is  not  Paul’s,  the 
entire  historical  evidence  for  its  canonicity  must  be  laid 
aside  as  incredible. 

1.  History  of  Opinion  on  this  Subject. — In  this  epistle 
the  superscription,  the  ordinary  source  of  information,  is 
wanting.  Its  omission  has  been  accounted  for,  since 
the  days  of  Clement  of  Alexandria  (apitd  Euseb.  II.  E. 
vi,  14)  and  Chrysostom  by  supposing  that  Paid  with- 
held his  name  lest  the  sight  of  it  should  repel  any  Jew  - 
ish Christians  who  might  still  regard  him  rather  as  tin 
enemy  of  the  law  (Acts  xxi,  21)  than  as  a benefactor  to 
their  nation  (Acts  xxiv,  17).  Pantonus,  or  some  other 
predecessor  of  Clement,  adds  that  Paul  would  not  write 
to  the  Jews  as  an  apostle  because  he  regarded  the  Lord 
himself  as  their  apostle  (see  the  remarkable  expression, 
ITeb.  iii,  1,  twice  quoted  by  Justin  Martyr,  Apol.  i,  12, 
63). 

It  was  the  custom  of  the  earliest  fathers  to  quote  pas- 
sages of  Scripture  without  naming  the  writer  or  the 
book  which  supplied  them.  But  there  is  no  reason  to 
doubt  that  at  first,  everywhere,  except  in  North  Africa 
Paid  was  regarded  as  the  author.  ‘■Among  the  Greek 
fathers,”  says  Olshausen  ( Opuscule , p.  95),  "no  one  is 
named  either  in  Egypt,  or  in  Syria,  Palestine,  Asia,  or 
Greece,  who  is  opposed  to  the  opinion  that  this  epistle 
proceeds  from  Paul.”  The  Alexandrian  fathers,  wliet  ti- 
er guided  by  tradition  or  by  critical  discernment,  are 
the  earliest  to  note  the  discrepancy  of  style  between 
this  epistle  and  the  other  thirteen.  They  received  it  in 
the  same  sense  that  the  speech  in  Acts  xxii,  1-21  is  re- 
ceived as  Paul’s.  Clement  ascribed  to  Luke  the  trans- 
lation of  the  epistle  into  Greek  from  a Hebrew  original 
of  Paid.  Origen,  embracing  the  opinion  of  those  who, 
he  says,  preceded  him,  believed  that  the  thoughts  were 
Paid’s,  the  language  and  composition  Luke’s  or  Clem- 
ent’s of  Rome.  Tertullian,  knowing  nothing  of  any 
connection  of  Paul  with  the  epistle,  names  Barnabas  as 


HEBREWS.  EPISTLE  TO  142  HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 


the  reputed  author  according  to  the  North  African  tra- 
dition, which  in  the  time  oi'  Augustine  had  taken  the 
less  delinite  shape  of  a denial  by  some  that  the  epistle 
was  raid's,  and  in  the  time  of  Isidore  of  Seville  appears 
as  a Latin  opinion  (founded  on  the  dissonance  of  style) 
that  it  was  written  by  Barnabas  or  Clement.  At  Borne 
Clement  was  silent  as  to  the  author  of  this  as  of  the 
other  epistles  which  he  quoted;  and  the  writers  who 
follow  him,  down  to  the  middle  of  the  4th  century,  only 
touch  on  the  point  to  deny  that  the  epistle  is  Paid's. 

The  view  of  the  Alexandrian  fathers,  a middle  point 
between  the  Eastern  and  Western  traditions,  won  its 
way  in  the  Church.  It  was  adopted  as  the  most  prob- 
able opinion  by  Eusebius  (Blunt,  On  the  right  Use  of  the 
early  Fathers , p.  439-444) ; anil  its  gradual  reception 
may  have  led  to  the  silent  transfer,  which  was  made 
aliout  his  time,  of  this  epistle  from  the  tenth  place  in 
the  Creek  Canon  to  the  fourteenth,  at  the  end  of  Paid’s 
epistles,  and  before  those  of  other  apostles.  This  place 
it  held  everywhere  till  the  time  of  Luther;  as  if  to  in- 
dicate the  deliberate  and  final  acquiescence  of  the  uni- 
versal Church  in  the  opinion  that  it  is  one  of  the  works 
of  Paid,  but  not  in  the  same  full  sense  as  the  other  ten 
epistles,  addressed  to  particular  churches. 

In  the  last  three  centuries  every  word  and  phrase  in 
the  epistle  have  been  scrutinized  with  the  most  exact 
care  for  historical  and  grammatical  evidence  as  to  the 
authorship.  The  conclusions  of  individual  inquirers  are 
very  diverse,  but  the  result  has  not  been  any  considera- 
ble disturbance  of  the  ancient  tradition.  No  new  land 
of  difficulty  has  been  discovered ; no  hypothesis  open  to 
fewer  objections  than  the  tradition  has  been  devised. 
The  laborious  work  of  the  Bcv.C.  Forster  (The  .1  post  al- 
ien! .1  uthority  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews ),  which  is  a 
storehouse  of  grammatical  evidence,  advocates  the  opin- 
ion that  Paul  was  the  author  of  the  language  as  well  as 
the  thoughts  of  the  epistle.  Professor  Stuart,  in  the 
I ntroduction  to  his  Commentary  on  the  Epistle  to  the  He- 
brews,, discusses  the  internal  evidence  at  great  length, 
and  agrees  in  opinion  with  Mr.  Forster.  Dr.  C.  ’Words- 
worth (On  the  Canon  of  the  Scriptures,  Leet.  ix)  leans  to 
the  same  conclusion.  Dr.  S.  Davidson,  in  his  Introduc- 
tion to  the  Xew  Testament,  gives  a very  careful  and  mi- 
nute summary  of  the  arguments  of  all  the  principal 
modem  critics  who  reason  upon  the  internal  evidence, 
and  concludes,  in  substantial  agreement  with  the  Alex- 
andrian tradition,  that  Paul  was  the  author  of  the  epis- 
tle, and  that,  as  regards  its  phraseology  and  style,  Luke 
co-operated  with  him  in  making  it  what  it  now  appears. 
The  tendency  of  opinion  in  Germany  has  been  to  as- 
cribe the  epistle  to  some  other  author  than  Paul.  Lu- 
ther's conjecture  that  Apollos  was  the  author  has  been 
widely  adopted  by  Le  (’lore,  Bleek,  De  Wette,  Tholuck. 
Bunsen,  Alford,  and  others.  Barnabas  has  been  named 
by  Wiescler,  Thiersch,  and  others.  Luke  by  Grotius. 
Nilas  bv  others.  Neander  attributes  it  to  “some  apos- 
tolic man”  of  the  Pauline  school,  whose  training  and 
method  of  stating  doctrinal  truth  differed  from  Paul’s. 
The  distinguished  name  of  II.  Ewald  has  been  given 
recently  to  the  hypothesis  (partly  anticipated  by  Wet- 
stein)  that  it  was  written  neither  by  Paul  nor  to  the 
Hebrews,  but  by  some  Jewish  teacher  residing  at  Jeru- 
salem to  a church  in  some  important  Italian  town,  which 
is  supposed  to  have  sent  a deputation  to  Palestine. 

2.  . 1 ry it mmts  for  and  against  the  diferent  Authors 
proposed,  other  than  the  Apostle  Paul.  Host  of  these 
guesses  are  quite  destitute  of  historical  evidence,  and  re- 
quire the  support  of  imaginary  facts  to  place  them  on  a 
seeming  equality  with  the  traditionary  account.  They 
cannot  be  said  to  rise  out  of  the  region  of  possibility 
into  that  of  probability,  but  they  are  such  as  any  man 
of  leisure  and  learning  might  multiply  till  they  include 
even-  name  in  the  limited  list  that  we  possess  of  Paul’s 
contemporaries. 

(1.)  Silas. — The  claims  of  this  companion  of  Paul  to 
the  authorship  of  one  epistle  find  no  support  from  the 
testimony  of  antiquity.  The  suggestion  of  them  is  en- 


tirely modern,  having  been  first  advanced  by  Bohme  in 
the  introduction  to  his  commentary  on  this  epistle  (Lips. 
1825),  and  by  Mvnster  in  the  Studien  and  Kritilcen , ii, 
344 ; but  they  have  adduced  nothing  in  support  of  these 
claims  which  might  not  with  equal  plausibility  have 
been  urged  on  behalf  of  any  other  of  the  apostle’s  com- 
panions. 

(2.)  Clement  of  Home. — Origen  tells  ns  that  the  tra- 
dition which  had  reached  him  was  that  some  held  this 
epistle  to  have  been  written  by  Clement,  bishop  of 
Borne,  w-hile  others  said  it  was  written  by  Luke  the 
evangelist  (ap.  Euseb.  Ilist.  Eccl.  vi,  25).  Erasmus  es- 
poused the  claims  of  Clement,  and  Calvin  inclined  to 
the  same  view.  Some  evidence  in  favor  of  this  hypoth- 
esis has  been  thought  to  be  supplied  by  the  resemblance 
of  some  passages  in  Clement’s  first  epistle  to  the  Corin- 
thians to  passages  in  one  epistle;  but  these  have  much 
more  the  appearance  of  quotations  from  the  former,  or 
reminiscences  of  it  on  the  part  of  the  author  of  the  lat- 
ter, than  such  similarities  of  thought  and  expression  as 
would  indicate  a community  of  authorship  for  the  two. 
A close  comparison  of  the  one  with  the  other  leaves  the 
impression  very  strongly  that  they  are  the  productions 
of  different  minds;  neither  in  style  nor  in  the  general 
east  of  thought  is  there  any  prevailing  affinity  between 
them.  Clement  also  was  in  all  probability  a convert 
from  heathenism,  whereas  the  author  of  the  Epistle  to 
the  Hebrews  was  undoubtedly  by  birth  and  education 
a Jew.  Perhaps  what  Origen  records  means  nothing 
more  than  that  Clement  or  Luke  acted  as  the  party  who 
reduced  the  epistle  to  writing,  leaving  the  question  of 
the  authorship,  properly  so  called,  untouched.  His 
whole  statement  is — “not  heedlessly  (ovk  tiKtf)  had  the 
ancients  handed  it  down  as  Paul’s ; but  who  wrote  the 
epistle  God  truly  knows.  But  the  story  which  has 
come  down  to  us  from  some  is,  that  Clement,  who  was 
bishop  of  Borne,  wrote  the  epistle ; from  others,  that  it 
was  Lidce  who  wrote  the  Gospel  and  the  Acts.”  Je- 
rome also,  in  referring  to  the  tradition,  explains  it  thus 
— “quern  [Clementem]  aiimt  ipsi  adjunctum  sententias 
Pauli  proprio  orilinasse  et  omasse  sermone”  (De  I 'iris 
ill  list.  c.  5). 

(3.)  Luke. — The  claims  of  Luke  apparently  rise  a de- 
gree higher  from  the  circumstance  that,  besides  being 
named  by  Origen  and  Jerome  as  dividing  with  Clement 
the  honors  which,  as  these  writers  testify,  were  in  cer- 
tain quarters  assigned  to  the  latter,  there  is  a character 
of  similarity  with  respect  to  language  and  style  between 
this  epistle  and  the  acknowledged  productions  of  the 
evangelist.  This  has  led  several  eminent  scholars  to 
adopt  the  hypothesis  that,  while  the  thoughts  may  be 
Paul’s,  the  composition  is  Luke’s.  But  against  this  con- 
clusion the  following  considerations  may  be  urged.  1. 
Where  there  is  no  other  evidence,  or  at  least  none  of 
any  weight,  in  favor  of  identity  of  authorship,  mere 
general  similarity  of  style  cannot  be  allowed  to  possess 
much  force.  Luke,  however,  is  known  to  have  been  in 
such  a connection  with  Paul  as  to  justify  in  some  sort 
the  assumption  of  his  having  written  on  the  apostle’s 
behalf.  2.  Assuming  the  epistle  to  be  the  production 
of  Paul,  it  is  easy  to  account,  for  the  resemblance  of  its 
style  to  that  of  Luke,  from  the  fact  that  Luke  was  for 
so  many  years  the  companion  and  disciple  of  Paul ; for 
it  is  well  known  that  when  persons  for  a long  time  as- 
sociate closely  with  each  other,  and  especially  when  one 
of  the  parties  is  an  individual  of  powerful  intellect  whose 
forms  of  thought  and  modes  of  speech  imperceptibly  im- 
press themselves  on  those  with  whom  he  associates,  they 
fall  insensibly  into  a similarity  of  tone  and  style  both  of 
speaking  and  writing  (so  Chrysostom,  Horn,  ir  in  Matt., 
quoted  by  Forster,  Apostolical  Authority  of  the  Epistle 
to  the  Hebrews,  p.  (548).  The  resemblances,  however,  in 
this  case  (see  them  pointed  out  by  Alford,  vol.  iii,  pas- 
sim) arc  too  striking  and  minute  to  be  fully  explained  in 
this  general  manner.  3.  It  is  not  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews  alone  that  a resemblance  to  the  style  of  Luke 
may  be  detected:  the  same  feature  pervades  all  Paul’s 


HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO  143  HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 


epistles,  especially  those  of  a later  date,  as  has  frequent- 
ly'been  observed  by  critics.  In  fine,  while  there  are 
such  resemblances  of  style,  etc.,  as  have  been  referred  to 
between  this  epistle  and  the  writings  of  Luke,  there  are 
differences  of  a nature  so  weighty  as  completely  to  over- 
balance these  resemblances,  and  authorize  the  conclu- 
sion that  the  author  of  the  latter  could  not  also  be  the 
author  of  the  former.  Both  Stuart  ( Comment . i,  833, 
London,  1828)  and  Eichhorn  ( Einleit . iii,  465)  justly  lay 
stress  on  the  greater  predominance  of  Jewish  feelings  in 
the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  than  in  any  of  Luke’s  writ- 
ings, and  still  more  on  the  marked  familiarity  with  the 
peculiarities  of  the  Jewish  schools  displayed  by  the 
miter  of  the  epistle,  but  of  which  no  traces  are  apparent 
in  any  of  the.  writings  of  the  evangelist.  Both  writings 
display  the  combined  infinence  of  the  Palestinian  and 
the  Hellenistic  character  on  the  part  of  their  author; 
but  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  the  former  so  deci- 
dedly predominates  over  the  latter,  while  the  reverse  is 
the  case  with  the  writings  of  Luke,  that  it  seems  to  the 
last  degree  improbable  that  the  same  person  could  have 
written  both.  Luke,  moreover,  was  a convert  from 
heathenism,  whereas  the  author  of  the  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews  was  evidently  a Jew.  It  appears,  therefore, 
that  for  the  theory  which  ascribes  the  composition  of 
this  epistle  to  Luke  as  of  his  own  dictation,  there  is  no 
evidence  of  any  kind  which  will  bear  examination,  but, 
on  the  contrary,  not  a little  against  it.  4.  Neverthe- 
less, the  association  of  Luke  with  Paul,  and  the  many 
marked  coincidences  between  Luke’s  phraseology  and 
that  of  this  epistle,  give  a strong  color  of  probability  to 
the  supposition  that  the  evangelist  had  something  to 
do  with  its  authorship,  doubtless  as  assistant  or  under 
another’s  authority;  for  it  cannot  be  presumed  that  he 
would  have  personally  assumed  the  responsibility  of  a 
work  like  this,  evidently  conceived,  written,  and  sent 
out  as  of  apostolical  authority,  and  with  the  personal 
allusions  to  the  history  apparently  of  Paul  which  we 
find  in  the  final  salutations.  But  if  Luke  were  joint 
author  with  Paul,  what  share  in  the  composition  is  to 
be  assigned  to  him  ? This  question  has  been  asked  by 
those  who  regard  joint  authorship  as  an  impossibility, 
and  ascribe  the  epistle  to  some  other  miter  than  Paul. 
Perhaps  it  is  not  easy,  certainly  it  is  not  necessary,  to 
find  an  answer  which  would  satisfy  or  silence  persons 
who  pursue  a historical  inquiry  into  the  region  of  con- 
jecture. Who  shall  define  the  exact  responsibility  of 
Timothy,  or  Silvafins,  or  Sosthenes,  in  those  seven  epis- 
tles which  Paul  inscribes  with  some  of  their  names  con- 
jointly with  his  own?  To  what  extent  does  Mark's 
language  clothe  the  inspired  recollections  of  Peter, 
which,  according  to  ancient  tradition,  are  recorded  in 
the  second  gospel?  Or,  to  take  the  acknowledged 
writings  of  Luke  himself — what  is  the  share  of  the 
“eye-witnesses  and  ministers  of  the  word”  (Luke  i,  2), 
or  what  is  the  share  of  Paid  himself  in  that  gospel 
which  some  persons,  not  without  countenance  from  tra- 
dition, conjecture  that  Luke  wrote  under  his  master’s 
eye  in  the  prison  at  Cbesarea ; or  who  shall  assign  to  the 
follower  and  the  master  their  portions  respectively  in 
those  seven  characteristic  speeches  at  Antioch,  Lystra, 
Athens,  Miletus,  Jerusalem,  and  Ciesarea?  If  Luke 
mote  down  Paid’s  Gospel,  and  condensed  his  missionary 
speeches,  may  he  not  have  afterwards  taken  a more  im- 
portant share  in  the  composition  of  this  epistle? 

(4.)  Barnabas. — The  hypothesis  which  claims  the  au- 
thorship of  this  epistle  for  Barnabas  has  in  its  support 
the  testimony  of  Tertidlian  (De  Pudicitia , c.  20),  with 
whom,  as  we  learn  from  Jerome  ( Epist . 129,  ad  Darda- 
m»i),  several  ( plerique ) among  the  Latins  concurred. 
For  this  opinion  Tertidlian,  in  the  passage  referred  to, 
assigns  no  reasons,  and  Jerome  appears  to  have  treated 
it  as  a mere  conjecture  resting  upon  Tertullian’s  author- 
ity alone ; for,  in  his  catalogue  of  ecclesiastical  miters 
(c.  5),  he  refers  to  this  opinion  as  one  “juxta  Tertullia- 
num,”  whilst  he  says  that  the  opiuion  that  Luke  was 
the  author  was  one  “juxta  quosdam.”  Hug  is  of  opin- 


ion (Tnt rod.  p.  596,  Fosilick’s  transl.)  that  in  this  passage 
we  have  not  Tertullian’s  own  view  so  much  as  a conces- 
sion on  his  part  to  those  whom  he  was  opposing,  and 
who,  because  of  the  very  passage  he  is  about  to  quote 
from  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  (vi,  4-8),  were  inclined 
to  reject  the  claims  of  that  epistle  to  be  esteemed  the 
production  of  Paul.  This  conjecture  is  of  use,  as  it  tends 
to  show  that  Tertidlian  might  have  another  reason  for 
ascribing  this  epistle  to  Barnabas  than  his  total  igno- 
rance that  it  had  ever  been  imputed  to  Paul,  as  has  been 
confidently  inferred  by  several  miters  from  the  fact  that 
it  was  obviously  to  the  interest  of  his  argument  to  up- 
hold the  Pauline  origin  of  this  epistle  had  he  been  aware 
of  it.  In  recent  times  the  ablest  defender  of  this  hy- 
pothesis is  LTllmann,  who  has  devoted  to  it  an  article  in 
the  first  volume  of  his  journal,  the  Studien  und  Kritiken; 
but  the  evidence  he  adduces  in  favor  of  it  is  very  feeble. 
After  enlarging  on  the  testimony  of  Tertidlian,  he  pro- 
ceeds to  the  internal  evidence  in  favor  of  Barnabas ; but 
of  the  six  reasons  he  assigns  for  ascribing  the  epistle  to 
him,  none  possesses  any  force.  The  first,  viz.  the  traces 
in  the  epistle  of  an  Alexandrian  education  on  the  part 
of  the  author,  supposing  it  granted,  would  not  apply  par- 
ticularly to  Barnabas,  who  was  a native  of  Cyprus,  and 
who,  though  Ullmann  says  “ he  had  perhaps  been  in  Al- 
exandria,” for  aught  we  know  had  never  seen  that  seat 
of  allegorical  learning.  The  second , viz.  that  Barnabas, 
being  a Levite,  was  more  likely,  on  that  account,  to  un- 
derstand the  Jewish  ritual,  as  we  see  the  author  of  this 
epistle  did,  is  of  no  weight,  for  there  is  nothing  stated  in 
the  epistle  on  that  head  which  any  intelligent  Jew 
might  not  have  known,  whether  a Levite  or  not.  The 
third,  viz.  that  what  the  author  of  this  epistle  says  con- 
cerning the  law,  divine  revelation,  faith,  etc.,  is  very 
Pauline,  and  such  as  we  might  expect  from  a companion 
of  Paul,  such  as  Barnabas  was;  the  fourth,  viz.  that  the 
tenor  of  the  epistle  is  worthy  such  a man  as  Barnabas; 
th  & fifth,  viz.  that  the  writer  of  this  epistle  speaks  of  the 
Saviour  very  frequently  by  the  appellation  d Tijo-out,*, 
which  I)r.  Ullmann  thinks  indicates  that  the  miter  must 
have  known  our  Lord  during  his  personal  ministry, 
which  wa s probably  the  case  with  Barnabas;  and  the 
sixth,  viz.  that  the  names  of  persons  mentioned  in  this 
epistle  are  names  which  Barnabas  might  have  referred 
to  had  he  written  it — are  reasons  such  as  it  would  be 
idle  to  refute,  and  such  as  fill  us  with  surprise  that  a 
man  of  Ullmann’s  learning  and  vigor  should  have  grave- 
ly adduced  them.  With  regard  to  th effth  also,  Olsliau- 
sen  has  justly  observed  (Opusc.  Theoloyica,  p.  115)  that 
if  it  were  certain  that  Barnabas  had  enjoyed  the  advan- 
tage of  our  Lord’s  personal  ministry,  it  -would  clearly 
prove  that  he  was  not  the  author  of  this  epistle,  for  the 
latter  distinctly  classes  himself  with  those  by  whom  this 
advantage  had  not  been  enjoyed  (eh.  ii,  B).  Stuart  and 
some  others  have  laid  great  stress  on  the  contrast  af- 
forded by  this  epistle  to  the  extant  epistle  which  passes 
under  the  name  of  Barnabas,  with  respect  to  style,  tone, 
and  general  character,  as  supplying  indubitable  evidence 
that  the  former  is  the  production  of  a different  and  a far 
superior  mind.  Of  this  there  can  be  no  question,  and, 
were  we  quite  certain  that  the  epistle  ascribed  to  Bar- 
nabas was  really  his  production,  the  argument  woidd  be 
conclusive.  But,  though  some  very  distinguished  names 
may  be  cited  in  support  of  its  authenticity,  the  greater 
weight,  both  of  authority  and  evidence,  is  against  it. 
See  Barnabas,  Epistle  of.  The  total  absence  of  any 
reason  in  favor  of  imputing  the  authorship  of  the  Epis- 
tle to  the  Hebrews  to  Barnabas  affords  sufficient  groiuid 
for  rejecting  this  hypothesis  without  our  attempting  to 
adduce  dubious  anil  uncertain  reasons  against  it. 

(5.)  Some  Alexandrian  Christian. — This  hypothesis 
rests  on  certain  features  of  the  epistle  which  are  said  to 
betray  Alexandrian  culture,  habits,  and  modes  of  thought 
on  the  part  of  the  miter.  These  have  been  much  in- 
sisted upon  by  Eichhorn,  Schulz,  Bleek,  and  others;  but 
they  are  not  such,  we  think,  as  carry  with  them  the 
weight  which  these  -writers  have  allowed  to  them.  The 


HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO  144  HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 


standard  of  comparison  by  which  the  supposed  Alexan- 
drian tone  of  this  epistle  is  evinced  is  supplied  by  the 
writings  of  Philo,  between  which  and  this  epistle  it  is 
affirmed  that  there  is  so  close  a resemblance  that  it  can 
be  accounted  for  only  on  the  supposition  that  the  author 
of  the  latter  was,  like  Philo,  an  Alexandrian  Jew.  Now, 
before  this  reasoning  can  be  so  much  as  looked  at,  it  be- 
hooves those  who  use  it  to  point  out  clearly  how  much 
of  Philo’s  peculiar  style  and  sentiment  was  owing  to  his 
Jewish,  and  how  much  to  his  Alexandrian  education  or 
habits  of  thought;  because,  unless  this  can  be  done,  it 
will  be  impossible  to  show  that  any  alleged  peculiarity 
necessarily  bespeaks  an  Alexandrian  origin,  and  could 
not  possibly  have  appeared  in  the  writings  of  a pure  Jew 
of  Palestine.  No  attempt,  however,  of  this  sort  has  been 
made ; on  the  contrary,  it  has  been  assumed  that  what- 
ever is  Philonian  is  therefore  Alexandrian,  and  hence 
all  resemblances  between  the  writings  of  Philo  and  the 
Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  have  been  urged  as  certain  proofs 
that  the  latter  must  have  been  written  by  a converted 
Jew  of  Alexandria.  Such  an  assumption,  however,  we 
would  by  no  means  concede ; and  we  feel  confirmed  in 
this  by  an  examination  of  the  evidence  adduced  in  sup- 
port of  the  alleged  Alexandrian  character  of  this  epistle. 
As  Stuart  has,  we  think,  clearly  shown  (i,  321),  and  as 
even  Tholuck,  though  obviously  inclining  the  other  way, 
lias  candidly  admitted  ( Comment . on  the  Hebrews,  i,  G8,  , 
§ 7),  there  is  nothing  in  this  evidence  to  show  that  this 
epistle  might  not  have  been  written  by  a Jew  who  had 
never  left  the  bounds  of  Palestine.  It  is  worthy  of  no- 
tice that  several  of  the  points  on  which  Eiclihorn  chiefly 
insists  as  favoring  his  view,  such  as  the  prevalence  of 
typical  expositions  of  the  Mosaic  ritual  in  this  epistle, 
and  the  greater  elegance  of  its  language  and  style  (Ein- 
leit.  iii,  443  sq.),  are  given  up  by  Blcek,  and  that  of  the 
two  chiefly  insisted  upon  by  the  latter,  viz.  the  close  af- 
finity between  this  epistle  and  the  writings  of  Philo,  and 
the  alleged  mistake  in  regard  to  the  furniture  of  the  tab- 
ernacle which  Bleek  charges  upon  the  author  of  this 
epistle  in  chap,  ix,  3, 4,  and  which  he  thinks  no  Jew  of 
Palestine  could  have  committed,  both  are  relinquished 
by  Tholuck  as  untenable  (comp,  the  valuable  remarks 
oi  l! ug,  Introd.  p.  584,  note,  Fosdick’s  transl.).  With  re- 
gard to  the  latter,  it  may  be  remarked  that,  even  sup- 
posing it  proved  that  the  writer  of  this  epistle  had  erred 
in  asserting  that  the  pot  containing  the  manna  and 
Aaron’s  rod  were  placed  in  the  ark  of  the  testimony,  and 
that,  supposing  Ovyiariipiov  to  denote  the  altar  of  in- ~ 
cense,  and  not  the  censer,  he  had  fallen  into  the  mistake 
of  placing  this  within  instead  of  without  the  vail,  noth- 
ing could  be  thence  deduced  in  favor  of  the  Alexandrian 
origin  of  the  author.  For,  with  regard  to  the  former  of 
these,  it  was  a matter  on  which  the  Jews  of  Palestine 
had  no  better  means  of  information  than  those  of  any 
other  place,  since,  in  the  Temple  as  then  standing,  none 
of  the  furniture  of  the  Iloly  of  Holies  had  been  pre- 
served ; and  with  regard  to  the  latter,  as  it  could  not  be 
the  result  of  iynorunce  either  in  a Jew  of  Palestine  or  in 
a Jew  of  Alexandria,  but  must  have  been  a piece  of 
mere  inadvertence  on  the  part  of  either,  it  seems  rather 
too  much  to  conclude  that  it  was  such  as  the  latter  alone 
was  capable  of  committing.  That,  however,  there  is  no 
blunder  in  the  case,  has,  we  think,  been  very  satisfacto- 
rily shown  by  Deyling  {Ohs.  Sac.  tom.  ii,  No.  47)  and 
others  (comp.  Stuart,  Tholuck,  and  Delitzscli,  ad  loc.). 

(<>.)  .1  polios.— The  first  to  suggest  Apollos  as  the  prob- 
able author  of  this  epistle  was  Luther  ( Werke,  ed.Walch, 
xii,  204, 1996,  etc.),  lie  has  been  followed  by  the  ma- 
jority of  recent  Herman  scholars,  many  of  whom  have 
supported  his  conjecture  with  much  ingenuity.  It  has 
undoubtedly  been  shown  by  them  that  Apollos  may  have 
been  the  writer;  and  they  have,  wc  think, proved  that 
of  all  Paul's  companions  this  is  the  one  who  was  most, 
fitted  by  education,  life-circuinstances,  modes  of  thought, 
and  religious  stand-point,  to  have  accomplished  such  a 
task  had  it  fallen  to  his  lot.  Beyond  this,  however, 
■their  arguments  seem  to  us  signally  to  fail.  What 


weight  they  have  is  derived  almost  entirely  from  the 
assumed  Alexandrian  tone  of  the  epistle;  so  that  in  set- 
ting aside  this  we  of  necessity  invalidate  what  has  been 
built  on  it.  But  it  may  be  permitted  us  to  remark  that, 
even  supposing  the  former  established,  the  latter  would 
by  no  means  follow,  any  more  than  because  a work  pro- 
duced in  Germany  in  the  present  day  was  deeply  tinc- 
i tured  with  Hegelianism,  it  would  follow  from  that  alone 
] that  it  must  be  the  production  of  some  certain  individ- 
; ual  rather  than  of  any  other  disciple  of  Hegel’s  school. 
The  adoption  of  this  theory  by  Tholuck,  after  his  ex- 
posure of  the  unsoundness  of  Bleek ’s  reasonings,  is  mat- 
ter of  surprise.  “ Still,”  says  he  (i,  69),  “ could  it  be  ren- 
dered probable  that  any  distinguished  person  having  in- 
tercourse with  Paul  were  an  Alexandrian,  and  of  Alex- 
andrian culture,  wc  might,  with  the  greatest  appearance 
of  truth,  regard  him  as  the  author  of  the  epistle.  Now 
such  a one  is  found  in  the  person  of  Apollos.”  What  is 
this  but  to  say,  “ The  arguments  for  the  Alexandrian 
' origin  of  this  epistle,  I must  confess,  prove  nothing;  but 
show  me  an  end  to  be  gained  by  it,  and  I will  admit 
them  to  be  most  conclusive !”  Such  a statement  affords, 
we  think,  very  clear  evidence  that  the  disposition  to  as- 
cribe this  epistle  to  Apollos  is  to  be  traced  not  to  any 
constraining  force  of  evidence,  but  exclusively  to  what 
Olshausen,  in  his  strictures  on  Bleek  (Opnsc.  p.  92),  justly 
denounces  as  the  main  source  of  that  able  writer’s  errors 
on  this  question — “Quod  non  ab  omni  partium  studio 
alienum  animum  sen-are  ipsi  contigit.”  It  maybe  add- 
ed that  if  this  epistle  was  the  product  of  Apollos  or  any 
other  Alexandrian  convert,  it  is  very  strange  that  no 
tradition  to  this  effect  should  have  been  preserved  in 
the  church  at  Alexandria,  but,  on  the  contrary,  that  it 
should  be  there  we  find  the  tradition  that  raid  was  the 
author  most  firmly  and  from  the  earliest  period  estab- 
lished. 

3.  We  now  pass  on  to  the.  question  of  the  Pauline  or- 
igin of  this  epistle.  Referring  our  readers  for  particu- 
lars to  the  able  and  copious  discussion  of  this  question 
furnished  by  the  works  of  Stuart  ( Commentary , Introd.), 
Forster  ( The  A postol.  Authority  of  the  Epistle  to  the  He- 
brews, etc.),  and  Hug,  we  shall  attempt  at  present  a con- 
densed outline  of  the  evidence  both  for  and  against  the 
Pauline  authorship  of  this  epistle. 

a.  Internal  evidence,  i.  In  favor  of  the  Pauline  origin 
of  the  epistle.  (I.)  A person  familiar  with  the  doctrines 
on  which  Paid  is  iond  of  insisting  in  his  acknowledged 
epistles  will  readily  perceive  that  there  is  such  a cor- 
respondence in  this  respect  between  these  and  the  Epis- 
tle to  the  Hebrews  as  supplies  good  ground  for  presum- 
ing that  the  latter  proceeded  also  from  his  pen.  That 
Christianity  as  a system  is  superior  to  Judaism  with  re- 
spect to  clearness,  simplicity,  and  moral  efficiency;  that 
the  former  is  the  substance  and  reality  of  what  the  lat- 
ter had  presented  only  the  typical  adumbration ; and 
that  the  latter  was  to  be  abolished  to  make  way  lor  the 
former,  are  points  which,  if  more  fully  handled  in  the 
Epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  are  familiar  to  all  readers  of  the 
epistles  of  Paul  (comp.  2 Cor.  iii,  6-18;  Gal.  iii,  22;  iv, 
1-9,  21-31 ; Col.  ii,  16, 17,  etc.).  The  same  view  is  given 
in  this  epistle  as  in  those  of  Paul  of  the  divine  glory  of 
the  Mediator,  specifically  as  the  reflection  or  manifesta- 
tion of  Deity  to  man  (compare  Col.  i,  15-20;  Phil,  ii,  6; 
Heb.  i,  3,  etc.).  His  condescension  is  described  as  hav- 
ing consisted  in  an  impoverishing,  and  lessening,  and 
lowering  of  himself  for  mein’s  behalf  (2  Cor.  viii,9;  Phil. 

ii,  7,  8;  Ileb.  ii,  9);  and  his  exaltation  is  set  forth  as  a 
condition  of  royal  dignity,  which  shall  be  consummated 
bv  all  his  enemies  being  put  under  his  footstool  (1  Cor. 
xv,  25-27 ; Ileb.  ii,8;  x,  13;  xii,  2).  He  is  represented 
as  discharging  the  office  of  a “mediator,”  a word  which 
is  never  used  except  by  Paul  and  the  writer  of  this  epis- 
tle (Gal.  iii,  19,20;  Heb.viii,G);  his  death  is  represented 
as  a sacrifice  for  the  sins  of  man ; and  the  peculiar  idea 
is  announced  in  connection  with  this,  that  he  was  pre- 
figured by  the  sacrifices  of  the  Mosaic  dispensation  (Rom. 

iii,  22-26 ; 1 Cor.  v,  7 ; Eph.  i,  7 ; v,  2 ; Heb.  vii-x).  Pe- 


HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO  145  HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 


culiar  to  Paul  and  the  author  of  this  epistle  is  the  phrase  ' 
“the  God  of  peace”  (Rom.  xv,  33,  etc.;  Heb.  xiii,  20) ; 
and  both  seem  to  have  the  same  conception  of  the  spir- 
itual “ gifts”  (1  Cor.  xii,  4 ; Heb.  ii,  4).  It  is  worthy  of 
remark,  also,  that  the  momentous  question  of  a man’s 
personal  acceptance  with  God  is  answered  in  this  epis- 
tle in  the  same  peculiar  way  as  in  the  acknowledged 
epistles  of  Paul.  AH  is  made  to  depend  upon  the  indi- 
vidual’s exercising  what  both  Paul  and  the  author  of 
this  epistle  call  “ faith,”  and  which  they  both  represent 
as  a realizing  apprehension  of  the  facts,  and  truths,  and 
promises  of  revelation.  (Bleek  and  Tlioluck  have  both 
endeavored  to  show  that  the  wiang  of  the  Epistle  to 
the  Hebrews  is  not  the  same  as  the  Tritrrig  of  Paul’s 
acknowledged  writings,  but,  in  our  view,  with  singu- 
lar want  of  success.  Tholuck’s  chief  argument,  which 
he  urges  as  of  more  weight  than  any  Bleek  has  ad- 
vanced, is,  that  the  writer  has  not  here  contrasted  vofiog 
and  irioTig,  the  ipya  vopov  and  the  ipya  iriVTHog,  as 
Paul  would  have  done.  But  how  can  this  be  said  when 
the  great  lesson  of  the  epistle  is,  that  always,  even  under 
the  law  itself,  wiang  was  the  medium  of  acceptance  and 
the  channel  of  divine  blessing  to  men?  When  Paul 
says, “ We  walk  by  faith,  not  by  sight”  [2  Cor.  v,  7],  and 
the  writer  to  the  Hebrews  says  that  faith,  by  which  the 
just  live,  is  the  evidence  of  things  not  seen  [x,  28;  xi, 

1 J,  what  essential  difference  in  their  notion  of  faith  and 
it  s working  can  be  discerned  ?)  By  both,  also,  the  power 
of  this  gracious  principle  is  frequently  referred  to  and 
illustrated  by  the  example  of  those  who  had  distin- 
guished themselves  in  the  annals  of  the  Jewish  race 
(comp.  Rom.  iii,  4 ; v,  2 ; Heb.  iii,  6 ; Gal.  iii,  5-14 ; Heb. 
x,  3d;  xi,  40).  (2.)  Some  of  the  figures  and  allusions 

employed  in  this  epistle  are  strictly  Pauline.  Thus  the 
word  of  God  is  compared  to  a sword  (Eph.  vi,  17 ; Heb. 
iv,  12) ; inexperienced  Christians  are  children  who  need 
milk,  and  must  be  instructed  in  the  whilst  those 

of  muturer  attainments  are  full-grown  men  who  require 
strong  meat  (1  Cor.  iii,  1,2;  xiv,  20;  Gal.  iv,  9;  Col.  iii, 
14 ; lleb.  v,  1 2, 13 ; vi,  1) ; redemption  through  Christ  is 
an  introduction  and  an  entrance  with  confidence  unto  God 
(Rom.  v,  2;  Eph.  ii,  18;  iii,  12;  lleb.  x,  19) ; afflictions 
are  a contest  or  strife,  ay wv  (Phil.  i,30;  Col.  ii,  1 ; Heb. 
x,  32) ; the  Christian  life  is  a race  (1  Cor.  ix,  24;  Phil, 
iii,  11;  lleb.  xii,  1) ; the  Jewish  ritual  is  a \arpeia  (Rom. 
ix,  4;  lleb.  ix,  1,6) ; a person  under  the  constraint  of 
some  unworthy  feeling  or  principle  is  “subject  to  bond- 
age” (Gal.  v,  1;  lleb.  ii,  15),  etc.  (3.)  Certain  marked 
characteristics  of  Paul’s  style  are  found  in  this  epistle. 
This  department  of  the  internal  evidence  has  more,  per- 
haps, than  any  other  been  canvassed  by  recent  critics, 
and  in  some  cases  opposite  conclusions  have  been  drawn 
from  the  same  phenomena.  Tints  the  occurrence  of 
<(7ra|  Xey ogtva  in  this  epistle  has  been  adduced  by  the 
German  scholars  against  the  Pauline  origin  of  it,  whilst 
Stuart  and  Forster  have  both  rested  on  this  fact  as 
strongly  in  favor  of  that  conclusion ; and  as  it  appears 
to  us  with  justice,  for  if  it  be  made  out  from  Paul’s  ac- 
knowledged writings  that  the  use  of  unusual  words  is  a 
characteristic  of  his  style  (and  this  has  been  placed  by 
these  writers  beyond  all  question),  it  is  obvious  that  the 
occurrence  of  the  same  characteristic  in  this  epistle,  so 
far  from  being  an  argument  against,  is,  as  far  as  it  goes, 
an  argument  for  our  ascribing  it  to  Paul.  On  argu- 
ments, however,  based  on  such  minute  phenomena,  we 
are  not  disposed  to  rest  much  weight  on  either  side. 
Every  person  must  be  aware  that  an  author’s  use  of 
words  is  greatly  modified  by  the  circumstances  under 
which  he  writes,  or  the  design  he  has  in  writing;  and 
the  literature  of  every  country  presents  us  with  numer- 
ous cases  of  authors  whose  works,  written  at  different 
periods,  and  with  different  designs,  present  far  greater 
diversities  of  expression  than  any  which  have  been 
pointed  out  between  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  and 
the  acknowleged  epistles  of  Paid.  Hence  cautious  crit- 
ics have  declined  to  rest  much  in  questions  of  literary 
parentage  upon  what  Bentley  calls  {Disserts  on  Phala- 
IV— K 


ris,  p.  19,  London,  1699)  “censures  that  are  made  from 
stile  and  language  alone,”  and  which,  he  adds,  “ are  com- 
monly nice  and  uncertain,  and  depend  upon  slender  no- 
tices.” Apart,  however,  from  such  minute  niceties,  there 
are  certain  marked  peculiarities  of  style  which  attach  to 
particular  writers,  and  flow  so  directly  from  the  charac- 
ter of  their  genius  or  education  that  they  can  hardly 
express  themselves  in  discourse  without  introducing 
them.  Now  such  peculiarities  the  writings  of  Paid  pre- 
sent, and  the  occurrence  of  them  has  always  been  felt  to 
afford  no  small  evidence  of  the  authenticity  of  any  pro- 
duction claiming  to  be  his  in  which  they  are  found. 
Paley,  in  enumerating  these  {/forte  Paulina1,  ch.  vi,  No. 
2,  3),  has  laid  stress  chiefly  on  the  following : A disposi- 
tion to  the  frequent  use  of  a word,  which  cleaves,  as  it 
were,  to  the  memory  of  the  writer,  so  as  to  become  a sort 
of  cant  word  in  his  writings ; a propensity  “ to  go  off  at 
a word,”  and  enter  upon  a parenthetic  series  of  remarks 
suggested  by  that  word ; and  a fondness  for  the  parono- 
masia, or  play  upon  words.  (4.)  There  is  a striking 
analogy  between  Paul’s  use  of  the  O.  T.  and  that  made 
by  the  writer  of  this  epistle.  Both  make  frequent  ap- 
peals to  the  O.  T. ; both  are  in  the  habit  of  accumida- 
tiug  passages  from  different  parts  of  the  O.  T.,  and  mak- 
ing them  bear  on  the  point  under  discussion  (comp.  Rom. 
iii,  10-18;  ix, 7-33, etc.;  lleb. i, 5-14;  iii;  x, 5-17);  both 
are  fond  of  linking  quotations  together  by  means  of  the 
expression  “ and  again”  (compare  Rom.  xv,  9-12 ; 1 Cor. 

. iii,  19,  20;  Heb.  i,  5;  ii,  12, 13;  iv,  4 ; x,  30) ; both  make 
use  of  the  same  passages,  and  that  occasionally  in  a sense 
1 not  naturally  suggested  by  the  context  whence  they  are 
! quoted  (1  Cor.  xv,  27 ; Eph.  i,  22 ; Heb.  ii,  8 ; Rom.  i,  17 ; 
Gal.  iii,  11;  lleb.  x,  38);  and  both,  in  one  instance,  quote 
a passage  in  a peculiar  way  (comp.  Rom.  xii,  1 9 ; Heb. 
x,  30). ' On  the  other  hand,  great  stress  has  been  laid 
by  the  opponents  of  the  Pauline  origin  of  this  epistle  on 
the  fact  that  whilst  Paul,  in  his  acknowledged  writings, 
quotes  from  the  Hebrew  original  in  preference  to  the 
Sept.,  where  the  latter  differs  from  the  former,  the  au- 
thor of  this  epistle  quotes  exclusively  from  the  Sept., 
even  when  it  departs  very  widely  from  the  Hebrew.  To 
this  it  may  be  replied,  1st,  That  both  Paid  and  the  au- 
thor of  this  epistle  quote  generally  from  the  Sept. ; 2dly, 
That  where  the  Sept,  differs  from  the  Hebrew,  Paid  does 
not  always  follow'  the  Hebrew  in  preference  to  the  Sept, 
(comp.  Rom.  ii,  24 ; x,  11-18;  xi,  27;  xv,  12;  1 Cor.  i,  19, 
etc.)  ; and,  3dly,  That  the  writer  of  this  epistle  does  not 
always  follow*  the  Sept,  where  it  differs  from  the  He- 
brew, but  occasionally  deserts  the  former  for  the  latter 
(e.  g.  x,  30;  xiii,  5);  (comp.  Davidson,  Int rod.  iii,  231). 
There  is  no  ground,  therefore,  for  this  objection  to  the 
Pauline  origin  of  this  epistle.  (5.)  The  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrew's  contains  some  personal  allusions  on  the  part  of 
the  ‘writer  which  strongly  favor  the  supposition  that  he 
was  Paul.  These  are  the  meution  of  his  intention  to 
pay  those  to  whom  he  was  writing  a visit  speedily,  in 
company  with  Timothy,  whom  he  affectionately  styles 
“our  brother,”  and  whom  he  describes  as  haying  been 
set  at  liberty,  and  expected  soon  to  join  the  writer  (Heb. 
xiii,  23) ; the  allusion  to  his  being  in  a state  of  impris- 
onment at  the  time  of  writing,  as  well  as  of  his  having 
partaken  of  their  sympathy  while  formerly  in  a state  of 
bondage  among  them  (Heb.  xiii,  19;  x,  34) ; and  the 
transmission  to  them  of  a salutation  from  the  believers 
in  Italy  (Heb.  xiii,  24),  all  of  which  agree  well  with  the 
supposition  that  Paul  wrote  this  epistle  v'hile  a prisoner 
at  Rome. 

ii.  Let  us  now  glance  at  the  main  objections  w'hich 
from  various  sources  have  been  urged  against  its  Pauline 
origin.  (1.)  It  is  unaccountable  that  Paul,  had  he  writ- 
ten this  epistle,  should  have  withheld  his  name.  But  is 
it  less  unaccountable  that  Clement,  or  Apollos,  or  Luke, 
had  any  of  them  been  the  author,  should  have  withheld 
his  name?  (2.)  “ This  epistle  is  more  calmly  and  log- 
ically written  than  it  was  possible  for  the  energetic  Paid 
to  have  written ; all  the  analogies  between  Judaism  and 
Christianity  are  calmly  investigated  and  calmly  ad- 


HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 


146 


HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 


duced;  the  materials  are  arranged  in  the  strictest  order,  I 
and  carefully  wrought  out  according  to  this  disposition,  | 
and  conclusion  follows  conclusion  with  the  greatest  reg-  | 
ularity ; the  language  also  is  rotund  and  choice,  and  the 
representation  unusually  clear.  All  this  is  unlike  Paul” 
(Eichhorn,  K inhit.  iii,  450).  This  is  a singular  assertion 
to  make  respecting  the  author  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Ho- 
mans, a production  characterized  most  eminently  by 
these  traits,  excepting,  perhaps,  a less  degree  of  calm- 
ness, which  the  special  object  of  the  present  epistle  may 
have  more  peculiarly  called  for.  (3.)  “Whilst  we  occa- 
sionally meet  Pauline  termini,  we  find  precisely  in  the 
leading  ideas  of  the  epistle  a terminology  different  from 
that  of  Paid”  (Tholuck,  i,  30,  English  transl.).  The  in- 
stances specified  by  Tholuck  are  the  use  of  itptve,  zrot- 
pi]v,  and  cnroerroXoc , as  designations  of  Christ;  of  bpo- 
\oyia,  which  he  says  is  confined  to  this  epistle;  of  iyyi- 
Ztiv  T(ii  Dtp ; and  of  rtXaot'i',  with  its  derivatives  in 
the  sense  in  which  it  is  used,  Ileb.  vii,  10.  Now,  with 
regard  to  this  objection,  it  may  be  observed,  1st,  That 
supposing  all  the  instances  adduced  by  Tholuck  to  be 
unimpeachable,  and  supposing  no  reason  could  be  as- 
signed why  Paid  should  use  such  in  writing  to  Hebrews, 
when  he  did  not  use  them  in  writing  to  others,  still  the 
objection  cannot  have  much  weight  with  any  person  ac- 
customed to  weigh  evidence,  because  not  only  is  the 
number  of  Paidine  termini  found  in  this  epistle  far  great- 
er than  the  number  of  termini  which,  according  to  Tho- 
luck, are  “foreign  to  the  apostle  to  the  Gentiles ;”  but 
it  is  always  less  likely  that  the  peculiar  phrases  of  a 
writer  should  be  borrowed  by  another,  than  that  a writ- 
er noted  for  the  use  of  peculiar  words  and  phrases  should, 
in  a composition  of  a character  somewhat  different  from 
his  other  productions,  use  terms  not  found  elsewhere  in 
his  writings.  P»ut,  2dly,  let  us  examine  the  instances 
adduced  by  Tholuck,  ami  see  whether  they  bear  out  his 
reasoning.  “ Paul  nowhere  calls  Christ  priest."  True ; 
but  though  Paul,  in  writiug  to  churches  composed  more 
or  less  of  Gentile  converts,  whose  -previous  ideas  of 
priests  and  priestly  rites  were  anything  but  favorable  to 
their  receiving  under  sacerdotal  terms  right  notions  of 
Christ  and  his  work,  never  calls  Christ  a priest,  is  that 
any  reason  for  our  concluding  that  in  writing  to  Jews, 
who  had  amongst  them  a priesthood  of  divine  organiza- 
tion, and  writing  for  the  express  purpose  of  showing 
that  that  priesthood  was  typical  of  Christ,  it  is  incon- 
ceivable that  the  apostle  should  have  applied  the  term 
priest  to  Christ?  To  us  the  difficulty  would  rather 
seem  to  be  to  conceive  how,  in  handling  such  a topic,  he 
could  avoid  calling  Christ  a priest.  “ Paul  nowhere  calls 
Christ,  a shepherd  and  an  apostle,  as  the  writer  of  this 
epistle  does.”  Hut  the  whole  weight  of  this  objection 
to  the  Pauline  origin  of  this  epistle  must  rest  on  the  as- 
sumption that  Paul  never  uses  figurative  appellations  of 
Christ  in  his  writings;  for  if  he  does,  why  not  here  as 
well  as  elsewhere?  Now  it  could  only  be  the  grossest 
unacquaintedness  with  the  apostle’s  writings  that  could 
lead  any  to  affirm  this.  The  very  opposite  tendency  is 
characteristic  of  them.  Thus  we  find  Christ  termed  ri- 
\oq  napoo  (Horn,  x,  4),  CutKovov  TTtpirofiijt ; (xv,  iS),  -it 
7rd<T\a  t'lpwv  (1  Cor.  v,  7),  »)  rrirpa  (x,  4),  dirap\t)  (xv. 
23),  tit;  dvi]p  (2  Cor.  xi.  2),  <k-poyu»i'irtTo<;  (Epli.  ii,  20), 
etc.  With  these  instances  before  us,  why  should  it  be 
deemed  so  utterly  incredible  that  Paul  could  have  called 
Christ  «7rooTo\oc  and  iroi/o'/ 1»,  that  the  occurrence  of 
such  terms  in  the  epistle  before  us  is  to  be  held  as  a rea- 
son for  adjudging  it  not  to  have  been  written  by  him? 

itli  regard  to  the  use  of  bpoXoyia  in  the  sense  of  re- 
ligious profession,  the  reader  may  compare  the  passages 
in  which  it,  occurs  in  this  epistle  with  limn.  x,  1);  2 Cor. 
ix,  13;  1 Tim.  vi,  12,  and  judge  for  himself  how  far  such 
a usage  is  foreign  to  the  apostle.  'Flic  phrase  iyyiZtiv 
Tp  Dtp  occurs  once  in  this  epistle  (vii,  ID),  and  once  in 
Jas.  iv,  k ; Paul  also  onee  uses  the  verb  actively  (Phil. 
iij‘30) ; and,  on  the  other  hand,  the  author  of  this  epistle 
once  uses  it  intransitively  (x,  25).  As  there  is  thus  a 
perfect  analogy  in  the  usage  of  the  verb  between  the 


two,  why  it  should  be  supposed  improbable  that  Paul 
shoidd  use  it  in  reference  to  God,  or  why  a phrase  used 
by  James  shoidd  be  deemed  too  Alexandrian  to  be  used 
by  Paid,w'e  feel  ourselves  utterly  at  a loss  to  conceive. 
With  regard  to  the  use  of  TtXtioiw , Tholuck  himself 
contends  (Appendix,  ii,  297)  that  it  everywhere  in  this 
epistle  retains  the  idea  of  completing;  but  he  cannot  un- 
derstand how  Paid  coidd  have  contemplated  the  work 
of  redemption  under  this  term  in  this  epistle,  since  in 
no  other  of  his  epistles  is  it  so  used.  This  difficulty  of 
the  learned  professor  may,  we  think,  be  very  easily  re- 
moved by  remarking  that  it  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  Paul’s  design  elsewhere,  so  fully  at  least  as  here, 
to  represent  the  superiority  of  Christianity  over  Juda- 
ism, as  that  arises  from  the  former  being  sufficient,  whilst 
the  latter  was  not  sufficient  to  complete  men  in  a relig- 
ious point  of  view,  i.  e.  to  supply  to  them  all  they  need, 
and  advance  them  to  all  of  which  they  are  capable. 
That  this  is  the  theme  of  the  writer,  the  passages  in 
which  the  word  in  question  occurs  show ; and  we  see  no 
reason  why  such  an  idea  might  not  have  occurred  to 
Paul  as  well  as  to  any  other  man.  Arguments  drawn 
from  such  special  terms,  moreover,  must  always  be  pre- 
carious when  urged  as  objections,  because  they  are  not 
only  indefinite,  but  are  mostly  negative  in  their  charac- 
ter. A minute  examination  shows  that  they  are  not  of 
much  force  in  the  present  case ; for  if  the  expressions  re- 
ferred to  do  not  occur  in  the  same  form  in  Paul’s  other 
epistles,  yet  similar  phrases  undoubtedly  prevail,  and 
the  variation  here  is  sufficiently  accounted  for  by  the 
different  character  and  object  of  this  epistle.  See  this 
and  all  the  other  questions  connected  with  this  epistle 
amply  reviewed  by  Dr.  Davidson  ( Introd . to  the  X.  T. 
iii,  163-295),  who,  however,  inclines  to  the  opinion  that 
these  peculiarities  indicate  the  co-operation  of  some  oth- 
er hand  with  Paul  in  the  composition  of  the  epistle. 

b.  It  yet  remains  that  we  should  look  at  the  external 
evidence  bearing  on  this  question.  Passing  by,  as  some- 
what imcertain,  the  alleged  testimony  of  Peter,  who  is 
supposed  (2  Pet.  iii,  15,  16)  to  refer  .to  the  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews  as  the  composition  of  Paid,  and  passing  by  also 
the  testimonies  of  the  apostolic  fathers,  which,  though 
very  decisive  as  to  the  antiquity  and  canonical  author- 
ity of  this  epistle  (see  Forster’s  Inquiry,  sec.  13),  yet  say 
I nothing  to  guide  us  to  the  author,  we  ccme  to  consider 
[ the  testimony  of  the  Eastern  and  Western  churches 
upon  this  subject.  As  respects  the  former,  there  are 
two  facts  of  much  importance.  The  one  is,  that  of  the 
Greek  fathers  not  one  positively  ascribes  this  epistle  to 
any  but  Paul ; the  other  is,  that  it  does  not  appear  that 
in  any  part  of  the  Eastern  Church  the  Pauline  origin  of 
this  epistle  was  ever  doubted  or  suspected  (compare  Ols- 
liausen,  Opusc.  Theolog.  p.  95). 

In  the  Western  Church  this  epistle  did  not,  as  we 
, have  seen,  meet  with  the  same  early  and  universal  re- 
ception. Put  of  what  value  is  the  state  of  opinion  in 
the  early  churches  of  the  West  in  the  question  of  evi- 
dence now  before  us?  To  judge  of  this,  we  must  bear 
| in  mind  that  the  sole  amount  of  evidence  arising  from 
f the  testimony  of  the  Latin  churches  is  negative;  all  we 
can  conclude  from  it,  at  the  most,  is  that  they  had  no 
sufficient  evidence  in  favor  of  this  epistle  being  Paid’s; 
they  do  not  seem  to  have  had  a shadow  of  historical  ev- 
idence against  its  being  his.  The  claims  of  Barnabas, 
Clement,  and  Luke  rest  upon  mere  individual  conjec- 
ture, and  have  no  historical  support.  .Supposing,  then, 
that  the  rejection  of  this  epistle  by  the  Latins  cannot 
be  accounted  for  by  circumstances  peculiar  to  them,  still 
this  fact  cannot  diminish  the  weight  of  evidence  accru- 
ing from  the  unanimity  of  the  Greeks  and  Asiatics. 
Had  the  Hitins  been  as  unanimous  in  favor  of  A polios 
or  Clement  as  the  Eastern  churches  were  in  favor  of 
Paul,  the  case  would  have  been  different.  The  value 
of  Paul’s  claims  would  in  that  case  have  been  equal  to 
the  difference  between  the  value  of  the  Eastern  tradi- 
tion anil  the  value  of  the  Western.  This  would  have 
furnished  a somewhat  puzzling  problem ; though  even 


HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO  H 

in  that  case  the  superiority  of  the  Eastern  witnesses  to 
tne  Western  would  have  materially  advanced  the  claims 
of  the  apostle.  As  the  case  stands,  all  the  positive  ex- 
ternal evidence  extant  is  in  favor  of  the  Pauline  author- 
ship of  this  epistle;  and  the  only  thing  against  it  is  that 
in  the  Latin  churches  there  appears  to  have  been  no 
commonly  received  tradition  on  the  subject.  Under 
such  circumstances,  the  claims  of  the  apostle  are  entitled 
to  be  regarded  as  fully  substantiated  by  the  external 
evidence. 

The  result  of  the  previous  inquiry'  may  be  thus  stated. 
1.  There  is  no  substantial  evidence,  external  or  internal, 
in  favor  of  any  claimant  to  the  authorship  of  this  epis- 
tle except  Paul.  2.  There  is  nothing  incompatible  with 
the  supposition  that  Paid  was  the  author  ol  it.  8.  The 
preponderance  of  the  internal,  and  all  the  direct  exter- 
nal evidence  goes  to  show  that  it  was  written  by  Paul. 
(Sec  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra , Oct.  1807.)  4.  The  appar- 

ent coincidences  with  Luke's  phraseology  merely  go  to 
show,  if  they  indeed  be  anything  more  than  casual,  that 
he  exercised  more  than  usual  liberty  as  an  amanuensis 
or  reporter  of  Paul. 

III.  Time  and  Place  of  Writing.— Assuming  the  Paul- 
ine authorship  of  the  epistle,  it  is  not  difficult  to  deter- 
mine when  ami  where  it  was  written.  The  allusions  in 
xiii,  It*,  21,  point  to  the  closing  period  of  the  apostle’s 
two  years’  imprisonment  at  Rome  as  the  season  during 
“the  serene  hours”  of  which,  as  II ug  describes  them 
(I nt rod.  p.  G03),  he  composed  this  noblest  production  of 
his  pen.  Modern  criticism  has  not  destroyed,  though 
it  has  weakened  this  conclusion,  by  substituting  the 
reading  rote  tW/noie,  “the  prisoners,”  for  roic  deopoig 
f.iov  (A.V.  “ me  in  my  bonds”),  x,  34;  by  proposing  to 
interpret  a7ro\t\v(isvov,  xiii, 23,  as  “sent  away”  rather 
than  - set  at  liberty;”  and  by  urging  that  the  condition 
of  the  writer,  as  portrayed  in  xiii,  18,  19,  28,  is  not  nec- 
essarily that  of  a prisoner,  and  that  there  may  possibly 
be  no  allusion  to  it  in  xiii,  3.  In  this  date,  however, 
almost  all  who  receive  the  epistle  as  Paul’s  concur ; and 
even  by  those  who  do  not  so  receive  it  nearly  the  same 
time  is  fixed  upon,  in  consequence  of  the  evidence  fur- 
nished by  the  epistle  itself  of  its  having  been  written 
a good  while  after  those  to  whom  it  is  addressed  had 
become  Christians.  The  references  to  former  teachers 
(xiii,  7)  and  earlier  instruction  (v,  12  and  x,  32)  might 
suit  any  time  after  the  first  years  of  the  Church ; but 
the  epistle  was  evidently  written  before  the  destruction 
of  Jerusalem  in  A.D.  70.  The  whole  argument,  and  es- 
pecially  the  passages  viii,  4 sq.,  ix,  G sq.  (where  the 
present  tenses  of  the  Greek  are  unaccountably  changed 
into  past  in  the  English  version),  and  xiii,  10  sq.,  imply 
that  the  Temple  was  standing,  and  that  its  usual  course 
of  divine  service  was  carried  on  without  interruption. 
A Christian  reader,  keenly  watching  in  the  doomed  city 
lbr  the  fulfilment  of  his  Lord’s  prediction,  wotdd  at  once 
understand  the  ominous  references  to  “ that  which  bear- 
eth  thorns  and  briers,  and  is  rejected,  and  is  nigh  unto 
cursing,  whose  end  is  to  be  burned “ that  which  de- 
cayeth  and  waxeth  old,  and  is  ready  to  vanish  away 
and  the  coming  of  the  expected  “ Day,”  and  the  remov- 
ing of  those  things  that  are  shaken  (vi,  8;  viii,  13;  x, 
23,  87 ; xii,  27).  Yet  these  forebodings  seem  less  dis- 
tinct and  circumstantial  than  they  might  have  been  if 
uttered  immediately  before  the  catastrophe.  From  the 
expression  “ they  of  (u— o)  Italy”  (xiii,  24),  it  has  been 
inferred  that  the  writer  could  not  have  been  in  Italy ; 
but  Winer  (Gramma file.  § GG,  G)  denies  that  the  prepo- 
sition necessarily  has  that  force.  Alford  (Comment,  iv, 
Proleg.  p.  G8  sq.),  after  Holzmann  (Stud.  v.  Krit.  1859, 
ii,  297  sq.),  contends  that  it  was  addressed  to  the  Judai- 
co-Christian  Church  at  Rome;  but  in  that  case,  how 
could  it  have  been  needful  to  inform  them  of  Timothy’s 
release  (as  the  author  does  in  the  same  connection,  xiii, 
23)  ? 

IV.  To  whom  addressed. — That  the  parties  to  whom 
this  epistle  was  addressed  were  converted  Jews  the  epis- 
tle itself  plainly  shows.  Ancient  tradition  points  out 


7 HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 

the  church  at  Jerusalem,  or  the  Christians  in  Palestine 
generally,  as  the  recipients.  Stuart  contends  for  the 
church  at  Ciesarca,  not  without  some  show  of  reason ; 
but  the  preponderance  of  evidence  is  in  favor  of  the 
ancient  tradition.  Two  things  make  this  clear,  says 
Lange : the  one  is,  that  only  the  Christians  in  Jerusa- 
lem, or  those  in  Palestine  generally,  formed  a great 
Jcwish-Christian  Church  in  the  proper  sense ; the  other 
is,  that  for  the  loosening  of  these  from  their  religious 
sense  ol  the  Temple-worship  there  was  an  immediate 
and  pressing  necessity  (Apostol.  Zeitalter,  i,  17G).  We 
know  of  no  purely  Jewish-Christiau  community,  such 
as  that  addressed  in  this  epistle,  out  of  Palestine,  while 
the  whole  tone  of  the  epistle  indicates  that  those  for 
whom  it  was  intended  were  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Tem- 
ple. The  inscription  of  the  epistle,  7 rpbg  'E/3paiovc, 
which  is  of  great  antiquity,  favors  the  same  conclusion 
(Roberts,  Discussions  on  the  Gospels,  p.  215  sq.).  Ebrard 
limits  the  primary  circle  of  readers  even  to  a section  of 
the  Church  at  Jerusalem.  Considering  such  passages 
as  v,  12;  vi,  10;  x,  32,  as  probably  inapplicable  to  the 
whole  of  that  church,  he  conjectures  that  Paid  wrote  to 
some  neophytes  whose  conversion,  though  not  mention- 
ed in  the  Acts,  may  have  been  partly  due  to  the  apos- 
tle’s influence  in  the  time  of  his  last  recorded  sojourn  in 
Jerusalem  (Acts  xxi,  22).  This,  however,  is  unneces- 
sary. 

V.  In  what  Language  was  it  written ? — Like  Mat- 
thew’s Gospel,  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  has  afforded 
ground  for  much  unimportant  controversy  respecting 
the  language  in  which  it  was  originally  written.  The 
earliest  statement  is  that  of  Clement  of  Alexandria  (pre- 
served in  Euseb.  II.  E.  vi,  14),  to  the  effect  that  it  was 
written  by  Paul  in  Hebrew,  and  translated  by  Luke 
into  Greek ; and  hence,  as  Clement  observes,  arises  the 
identity  of  the  style  of  the  epistle  and  that  of  the  Acts. 
This  statement  is  repeated,  after  a long  interval,  by  Eu- 
sebius, Thcodoret,  Jerome,  and  several  later  fathers;  but 
it  is  not  noticed  by  the  majority.  Nothing  is  said  to 
lead  us  to  regard  it  as  a tradition,  rather  than  a conjec- 
ture suggested  by  the  style  of  the  epistle.  No  person  is 
said  to  have  used  or  seen  a Hebrew  original.  The  Ar- 
amaic copy,  included  in  the  Peshito,  has  never  been  re- 
garded otherwise  than  as  a translation.  Among  the 
few  modern  supporters  of  an  Aramaic  original,  the  most 
distinguished  are  Joseph  Hallet,  an  English  writer  in 
1727  (whose  able  essay  is  most  easily  accessible  in  a 
Latin  translation  in  Wolf’s  Curcc  Philologicee.  iv,  80G- 
837).  The  same  opinion  has  found  in  Michaelis  a stren- 
uous defender  (Introd.  iv,  221).  The  arguments  he  ad- 
duces, however,  are  more  specious  than  sound ; and  it 
has  been  abundantly  shown  by  Larduer,  Hug,  Eiehhorn, 
and  others,  that  this  opinion  is  untenable.  Bleek  (i.G- 
23)  argues  in  support  of  a Greek  original  on  the  grounds 
of  (1)  the  purity  and  easy  Aoav  of  the  Greek;  (2)  the 
use  of  Greek  words,  which  could  not  lie  adequately  ex- 
pressed in  Hebrew  without  long  periphrase ; (3)  the  use 
of  paronomasia— under  which  head  he  disallows  the  in- 
ference against  an  Aramaic  original  which  has  been 
drawn  from  the  double  sense  given  to  cia9i]Ki)  (ix,  15); 
and  (4)  the  use  of  the  Sept,  in  quotations  and  references 
which  do  not  correspond  with  the  Hebrew  text.  Why 
Paul  should  have  written  in  Greek  to  persons  residing 
in  Judiea  is  best  answered  by  the  reasons  which  Hug 
(Introd.  p.  32G  sq.)  and  Diodati  (De  Christo  Greece  h- 
qnente  exercitatio,  etc.,  edited  by  O.  T.  Dobbin,  LL.B., 
London,  1843,  and  republished  in  the  Biblie'al  Repository 
for  Jan.  1844)  have  adduced  to  show  that  Greek  was  at 
that  time  well  known  to  the  mass  of  the  Jews  (compare 
Tholuck.  i.  78). 

VI.  Some  have  doubted  whether  this  competition  be 
justly  termed  an  epistle,  and  have  proposed  to  regard  it 
rather  as  a treatise.  The  salutations,  however,  at  the 
close  seem  rather  to  favor  the  common  opinion,  though 
it  is  of  little  moment  which  view  we  espouse. 

VII.  Condition  of  the  Hebrews  and  Scope  of  the  Epis- 
tle.—The  numerous  Christian  churches  scattered  through- 


HEBREWS.  EPISTLE  TO  148  HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO 


out  Judaea  (Acts  ix,  81 ; Gal.  i,  22)  were  continually  ex- 
posed to  persecution  from  the  Jews  (1  These,  ii,  14), 
which  would  become  more  searching  and  extensive  as 
churches  multiplied,  and  as  the  growing  turbulence  of 
the  nation  ripened  into  the  insurrection  of  A.D.  GG. 
Personal  violence,  spoliation  of  property,  exclusion  from 
the  synagogue,  and  domestic  strife  were  the  universal 
forms  of  persecution.  But  in  Jerusalem  there  was  one 
additional  weapon  in  the  hands  of  the  predominant  op- 
pressors of  the  Christians.  Their  magnificent  national 
Temple,  hallowed  to  every  Jew  by  ancient  historical 
and  by  gentler  personal  recollections,  with  its  irresisti- 
ble attractions,  its  soothing  strains,  and  mysterious  cer- 
emonies, might  be  shut  against  the  Hebrew  Christian. 
And  even  if,  amid  the  fierce  factions  and  frequent  oscil- 
lations of  authority  in  Jerusalem,  this  affliction  were  not 
often  laid  upon  him,  yet  there  was  a secret  burden  which 
every  Hebrew  Christian  bore  within  him — the  knowl- 
edge that  the  end  of  all  the  beauty  and  awfulness  of 
Zion  was  rapidly  approaching.  Paralyzed,  perhaps,  by 
this  consciousness,  and  enfeebled  by  their  attachment  to 
a lower  form  of  Christianity,  they  became  stationary  in 
knowledge,  weak  in  faith,  void  of  energy,  and  even  in 
danger  of  apostasy  from  Christ.  For,  as  afflictions  mul- 
tiplied round  them,  and  made  them  feel  more  keenly 
their  dependence  on  God,  and  their  need  of  near,  and 
frequent,  and  associated  approach  to  him,  they  seemed, 
ill  consequence  of  their  Christianity,  to  be  receding  from 
the  God  of  their  fathers,  and  losing  that  means  of  com- 
munion with  him  which  they  used  to  enjoy.  Angels, 
Moses,  and  the  high-priest — their  intercessors  in  heav- 
en, in  the  grave,  and  on  earth — became  of  less  impor- 
tance in  the  creed  of  the  Jewish  Christian ; their  glory 
waned  as  he  grew  in  Christian  experience.  Already  he 
felt  that  the  Lord’s  day  was  superseding  the  Sabbath, 
the  New  Covenant  the  Old.  What  could  take  the  place 
of  the  Temple,  and  that  which  was  behind  the  veil,  and 
the  Levitical  sacrifices,  and  the  holy  eitv,  when  they 
should  cease  to  exist  ? What  compensation  could  Chris- 
tianity offer  him  for  the  loss  which  was  pressing  the 
Hebrew  Christian  more  and  more  ? 

James,  the  bishop  of  Jerusalem,  had  just  left  his  place 
vacant  by  a martyr’s  death.  Neither  to  Cephas  at 
Babylon,  nor  to  John  at  Ephesus,  the  third  pillar  of  the 
Apostolic  Church,  was  it  given  to  understand  all  the 
greatness  of  this  want,  and  to  speak  the  word  in  sea- 
son. But  there  came  from  Rome  the  voice  of  one 
who  had  been  the  foremost  in  sounding  the  depth  and 
breadth  of  that  love  of  Christ  which  was  all  but  in- 
comprehensible to  the  Jew — one  who,  feeling  more  than 
any  other  apostle  the  weight  of  the  care  of  all  the 
churches,  yet  clung  to  his  own  people  with  a love  ever 
ready  to  break  out  in  impassioned  words,  and  unsought 
and  ill-requited  deeds  of  kindness.  He  whom  Jerusa- 
lem had  sent  away  in  chains  to  Rome  again  lifted  up 
his  voice  in  the  hallowed  city  among  his  countrymen ; 
but  with  words  and  arguments  suited  to  their  capacity, 
with  a strange,  borrowed  accent,  and  a tone  in  which 
reigned  no  apostolic  authority,  and  a face  veiled  in  very 
love  from  wayward  children  who  might  refuse  to  hear 
divine  and  saving  truth  when  it  fell  from  the  lips  of 
Paul. 

He  meets  the  Hebrew  Christians  on  their  own  ground. 
His  answer  is,  “ Your  new  faith  gives  you  Christ,  and 
in  Christ  all  you  seek,  all  your  fathers  sought.  In 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  you  have  an  all-sufficient  Medi- 
ator, nearer  than  angels  to  the  Father,  eminent  above 
Moses  as  a benefactor,  more  sympathizing  and  more 
prevailing  than  the  liigh-priest  as  an  intercessor:  his 
►Sabbath  awaits  you  in  heaven ; to  his  covenant  the  old 
was  intended  to  be  subservient;  his  atonement  is  the 
eternal  reality  of  which  sacrifices  are  but  the  passing 
shadow ; his  city  heavenly,  not  made  with  hands.  Hav- 
ing him,  believe  in  him  with  all  your  heart— with  a faith 
in  the  unseen  future  strong  as  that  of  the  saints  of  old, 
patient  under  present  and  prepared  for  coming  woe,  full 
of  energy,  and  hope,  and  holiness,  and  love.” 


Such  was  the  teaching  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews, 
IVe  do  not  possess  the  means  of  tracing  out  step  by  step 
its  effect  upon  them,  but  we  know  that  the  residt  at 
which  it  aimed  was  achieved.  The  Church  at  Jerusa- 
lem did  not  apostatize.  It  migrated  to  Pella  (Eusebius, 
II.  Ecel.  iii,  5)  ; and  there,  no  longer  dwarfed  under  the 
cold  shadow  of  overhanging  Judaism,  it  followed  the 
Hebrew  Christians  of  the  Dispersion  in  gradually  enter- 
ing on  the  possession  of  the  full  liberty  ■which  the  law 
of  Christ  allows  to  all. 

The  primary  design  of  this  epistle,  therefore,  was  to 
dissuade  those  to  whom  it  is  written  from  relapsing  into 
Judaism,  and  to  exhort  them  to  hold  fast  the  truths  of 
Christianity  which  they  had  received.  For  this  pur- 
pose the  apostle  shows  the  superiority  of  the  latter  dis- 
pensation over  the  former,  in  that  it  was  introduced  by 
one  far  greater  than  angels,  or  than  Moses,  from  whom 
the  Jews  received  their  economy  (i-iii),  and  in  that  it 
affords  a more  secure  and  complete  salvation  to  the  sin- 
ner than  the  former  (iv-ix).  In  demonstrating  the  lat- 
ter position,  the  apostle  shows  that  in  point  of  dignity, 
perpetuity,  sufficiency,  and  suitableness,  the  Jewish 
priesthood  and  sacrifices  were  far  inferior  to  those  of 
Christ,  who  -was  the  substance  and  reality,  while  these 
were  but  the  type  and  shadow'.  He  shows,  also,  that  by 
the  appearance  of  the  antitype  the  type  is  necessarily 
abolished ; and  adduces  the  important  truth  that  now', 
through  Christ,  the  privilege  of  personal  access  to  God 
is  free  to  all.  On  all  this  he  founds  an  exhortation  to 
a life  of  faith  and  obedience,  and  show's  that  it  has  ever 
been  only  by  a spiritual  recognition  and  worship  of  God 
that  good  men  have  participated  in  his  favor  (xi).  The 
epistle  concludes,  as  is  usual  with  Paul,  with  a series  of 
practical  exhortations  and  pious  W'ishes  (xii-xiii). 

But  this  great  epistle  remains  to  after  times  a key- 
stone binding  together  that  succession  of  inspired  men 
which  spans  over  the  ages  between  Moses  and  John. 
It  teaches  the  Christian  student  the  substantial  identity 
of  the  revelation  of  God,  whether  given  through  the 
prophets  or  through  the  Son;  for  it  shows  that  God’s 
purposes  are  unchangeable,  how’ever  diversely  in  differ- 
ent ages  they  have  been  ‘‘reflected  in  broken  and  fitful 
rays,  glancing  back  from  the  troubled  waters  of  the  hu- 
man soid.”  It  is  a source  of  inexhaustible  comfort  to 
every  Christian  sufferer  in  inward  perplexity,  or  amid 
“reproaches  and  afflictions.”  It  is  a pattern  to  even' 
Christian  teacher  of  the  method  in  which  larger  views 
should  be  imparted,  gently,  reverently,  and  seasonably, 
to  feeble  spirits  prone  to  cling  to  ancient  forms,  and  to 
rest  in  accustomed  feelings. — Kitto,  s.  v.;  Smith,  s.  v. 

VIII.  Literature. — 1.  Of  general  introductory  treatises, 
besides  the  formal  Introductions  of  Micliaelis,  Eichhom, 
De  Wette,  Davidson,  Bleek,  Horne,  etc.,  and  the  prole- 
gomena in  the  regular  commentaries  of  Stuart,  Alford, 
etc.,  the  following  express  treatises  in  volume  form  may 
be  especially  named : Ziegler,  Einleit.  (Gott.  1791, 8vo)  ; 
Bratt,  De  argum.  et  and.  etc.  (Grypli.  1806,  4to);  Sev- 
farth,  De  Didole,  etc.  (Lips.  1821,  8vo) ; Winzer,  De  N«- 
cerdotis  officio,  etc.  (Lips.  1825,  4to)  ; De  Groot,  Compa- 
ratio,  etc.  (Tr.  ad  Rh.  182G,  8vo) ; Bleek,  Einleit.  (Berl. 
1828, 8vo) ; Baumgarten-Crusius,  Conjecturce,  etc.  (Jena?, 
1829, 4to)  ; Gelpe,  1 'indicia ?,  etc.  (L.  B.  1832, 8vo)  ; Gross- 
mann,  De  2>hilos.  Jud.  etc.  (Lips.  1834,  4to) ; Stenglin, 
Zevgnisse,  etc.  (Bamb.  1835,  8vo) ; Forster,  Apostolical 
Authority,  etc.  (Lond.  1838,  8vo) ; Thiersch,  De  Ep.  ad 
Heir.  (Marburg,  1848,  8vo) ; Mole,  De  Christologia,  etc. 
(Halle,  1854) ; Wicseler,  Untersnchung,  etc.  (Kiel,  1861, 
8vo) ; Rielim,  Lehrhegr.  etc.  (1867,  Svo). 

2.  The  following  are  special  commentaries  on  the 
whole  of  the  epistle  alone,  the  most  important  of  wfflich 
are  here  designated  by  an  asterisk  (*)  prefixed : Atha- 
nasius, Commenturia  (in  Opp.  I,  ii)  ; Chrysostom,  llomil- 
ice  (in  Opp.  xii,  1) ; Cyril,  Commentaria  (in  Mai,  Script. 
Vet.  VIII,  ii,  147);  Alcuin,  Erplanatio  (in  Opp.  1,  ii) ; 
Aquinas,  Expositio  (in  Opp.  vii) ; *Calvin,  Commentary 
us  (in  Opp. ; also  in  English,  by  Cotton,  Lond.  1605, 4to ; 
by  a clergyman,  London,  1841,  12mo;  by  Owen,  Edinb. 


HEBREWS,  EPISTLE  TO  149  IIEBRON 


1853,  8vo) ; Zuingle,  A nnotationes  (in  Opp.  iv,  5G4) ; 
CEcolampadius,  Explanations  (Argent.  1534,  Basil,  1536, 
8vo) ; Megander,  A dnotationes  (Tig.  1539,  8vo) ; Gran- 
dis,  Commentarius  (Paris,  1546,  8vo) ; Bachmeister  [ed. 
Streuensee],  Disputatio  (Rost.  1569,  8vo;  also  in  Gemi. 
llal.  1755, 8vo) ; Brentz,  Commentarius  (Tub.  1571, 4to) ; 
llypcrius,  Commentcirii  (Tig.  1585,  fol.)  ; Grynaeus,  Ex- 
planatio  (Basil.  1587, 8vo) ; Buecafoci,  Commentarius  [in- 
cluding John]  (Rom.  1587, 4to) ; Ilunn,  Exegesis  (F.  ad 
51.  1589,  8vo) ; De  Ribera  [concluded  by  others],  Com- 
ment a ruts  (Saken.  1598,  Cologne,  1600,  Turin,  1605, 8vo); 
Galenus,  Commentarius  (Duac.  1578,  Lov.  1599,  8vo) ; 
Dering,  Lectures  [on  chap,  i-vi]  (in  IForA's);  Cameron, 
Iiesponsiones  (in  Opp.  p.  366) ; Crell,  Commentarius  (in 
Opp.  ii,  61) ; Rung,  Analysis  (Tit.  1600,  8vo) ; Nahum, 
Commentarius  [including  Gal.  and  Ephes.]  (Han.  1602, 
8vo);  Rollock,  Commentarius  (Gen.  1605,  1610,  12mo ; 
also  A nalgsis.  Edinburgh,  1605, Svo) ; Junius,  Enarratio 
(Heidelberg,  1610,  8vo;  also  in  Opp.  i,  1368) ; De  Tena, 
Commentarius  (Toledo,  1611,  1617,  fob;  with  additions 
by  others,  London,  1661,  fol. ; also  in  the  Critici  Sacri ) ; 
Lyser,  Commentarius  (Yit.  1616,  4to) ; Capellus,  Obser- 
vations (Sed.  1634,  8vo);  Cocceius,  In.  Ep.  ad  If.  (in 
Opp.  xii,  315);  Alting,  Preelections  [on  chap,  i-x]  (in 
Opp.  iv);  Scultetus,  Idete  (Fracof.  1634, Svo);  Slichting, 
Commentarius  (Rac.  1634, 8vo) ; Jones,  Commentary  [in- 
clud.  Philem.]  (Loud.  1635,  fol.);  Diekson,  Explanation 
(Aberd.  1635, 1649;  Glasg.1651;  Loud.  1839,  8 vo);  Ra- 
pine, Expositio  (Par.  1636,  8vo) ; Guillebert,  Paraphrase 
[in  French]  (Paris,  1638,  8vo);  Gerhard,  Commentarius 
(Jena,  1641,  1661,  4to) ; Vincent,  Commentaria  (Paris, 
1644,  fol.);  Douname,  Commentary  (London,  1646,  fol.) ; 
Lushington,  Commentary  [chiefly  a translation  of  Crell 
and  Slichting]  (Lond.  1646,  fol.) ; Godeau,  Paraphrase 
[in  French]  (Paris,  1651, 12mo;  in  English,  Lond.  1715, 
12mo) ; Gouge,  Commentary  (London,  1655,  fol.) ; Home, 
Expositio  (Bruns.  1655,  4to) ; Major,  Commentaria  (Jen. 
1655,  1668,  4to) ; Wandalin,  Paraphrasis  (Ilavn.  1656, 
4to)  ; Caspar  Streso,  Commentarius  (Hague,  1661,  4to)  ; 
Lamson,  Exposition  (Lond.  1662,  fol.) ; Owen,  Exposition 
[Rabbinical  illustrations]  (London,  1668-74,  4 vols.  fol. ; 
Edinb.  1812-14,  7 vols.  8vo;  London,  1840,  4 vols.  8vo; 
Edinb.  1854, 7 vols.  8vo ; abridged,  London,  1790, 1815, 4 
vols.  8vo);  *Seb.  Schmid,  Commentarius  (Argent.  1680, 
Lips.  1698,  4to) ; Mains,  Paraphrasis  (Giess.  1687, 1700, 
4to);  Wittich,  Investiyatio  (Amsterd.  1691,  4to);  *Van 
Hoeke,  Commentarius  (Lugd.  B.  1693,  4to ; in  German, 
Frankf.  1707,  4to) ; Groenwegen,  Yytlegyinge  (Leyden, 
1693, 1702, 4to) ; Nemeth,  Explicatio  (Franec.  1695, 1702, 
4to);  DeMarck,  Comtnntarius  [including  min.  proph.] 
(Tub.  1696,  5 vols.  4to;  1734,  2 vols.  fol.);  Ackersloot, 
Vytleyyinye  (Hag.  16S7,  4to;  in  German,  Bremen,  1714, 
4to);  Creyghton,  VerMaariny  (Amst.  1699,  4to);  Hei- 
degger, Exeyetica  [including  some  other  books  of  .Scrip- 
ture] (Tig.  1700,  1706,  1710,  4to) ; Schomer,  Exegesis 
[iiiclud.  part  of  1 Peter]  (Rost.  1701,  4to);  Braun,  Com- 
mentarius (Amst.  1705,  4to) ; Olearius,  Analysis  (Lips. 
1706, 4to);  Brochmand,  Commentarius  (llavn.  1706, 4to);  * 
Starck,  Notes  (Lips.  1710, 4to) ; *D’Outrein,  Verklaariny  i 
(Amst.  1711,  4to;  in  German,  Frankf.  1713, 1718,  2 vols. 
4to);  Limborch,  Commntarius  [includ.  Acts  and  Rom.] 
(Eotterd.  1711,  fol.) ; Clement  Streso,.*!  feditatien  (Amst. 
1714,  4to) ; Dorsche,  Commentarius  (Frankfort  et  Lips. 
1717,  4to);  Vermaten,  Ontleeding  (Amsterd.  1722,  4to); 
Hulse,  VerMaariny  (Rotterd.  1725,  2 vols.  4to) ; Peirce 
[continued  by  Hallet],  Paraphrase  (London,  1727,  4to; 
also  [with  Col.  and  Phil.]  ib.  1733,  4to;  in  Latin,  with 
additions,  by  J.  D.  Michaelis,  Hal.  1747,  4to);  Dunean, 
Exposition  (Edinb.  1731,  8vo;  1844,  12mo);  Cellarius, 
A usleyuny  (Ulm,  1731, 4to) ; *Rambach,  ErMdruny  [ed. 
Neubaier]  (Frankf.  1742,  4to);  Carpzov,  Exercitationes 
[comparison  with  Philo]  (Helmst.  1750,  8vo;  in  Germ, 
ib.  1795,  8vo);  Anon.  Paraphrase  (Lond.  1750,  8vo;  in 
Latin,  by  Sender,  Halle,  1779,  8vo);  Sykes , Paraphrase 
[Arian]  (Lond.  1755, 4to) ; *Cramer,  ErMdruny  (Copenh. 
1757, 4to);  Michaelis,  ErMdruny  (Frankf.  1762-4, 1780- 
6, 2 vols.  8vo) ; Streuensee,  ErMdruny  (Flensb.  17 63, 4to) ; 


Baumgarten,  ErMdruny  (Hal.  1763,  4to);  C.  F.  Schmid. 
Observations  (Lipsiie,  1766,  8vo) ; Zachariii,  ErMdruny 
(Gott.  1771  ; ed.  by  Iiosenmidler,  ib.  1793,  8vo) ■ Morns. 
Uebersetzung  (Leipz.  1776, 1786,  8vo) ; Blasche,  Commen- 
tar  (Leipzig,  1781,  8vo);  Abrescli,  Annotations  (L.  B. 
1786-7,  3 voLs.  8vo) ; Delphinus,  Commentarius  [includ. 
John]  (Rom.  1787,  8vo)  ; Storr,  Erlduteruny  (Tub.  1781), 
1809,  8vo);  *Ernesti,  Lectiones  [edit.  Dindorf]  (Lip  :. 
1795,  8vo);  Hezel,  Versuch  (Leipzig,  1795,  8vo) ; Val- 
necker,  Scholce  (in  his  selections,  Amsterd.  1815,  ii,  345- 
600);  Schulz,  A nmerk.  (Breslau,  1818,  8vo);  Maclean, 
Commentary  (London,  1819,  8vo);  W.  Jones,  Lectures 
(Lond.  1821,  8vo);  Boehme,  Commentarius  (Lips.  1825, 
8vo);  *Stuart,  Commentary  (Andover,  1827,  1833,  1851, 
1860;  Lond.  1837,  8vo);  G.  Y.  Sampson,  Notes  (Lond. 
1828,  8vo);  *Bleek,  Commentar  (Berlin,  1828-41 ; Elberf. 
1838,  I86S,  8vo) ; *Kuinbl,  Commentarius  (Lipsiie,  1831, 
8vo);  Paulus,  Erlduteruny  (Heidelb.  1833,  8vo);  Klee, 
Commentar  (Mainz,  1833,  8vo);  Knox,  Sermons  (Lond. 
1834, 8vo)  ; Bishop  Parry,  Exposition  (Lond.  1834, 8vo) ; 
Condcr,  Notes  (Lond.  1834,  8vo) ; Duke  of  Manchester, 
Argument  [of  chap,  i-iv,  11]  (Lond.  1835,  8vo) ; *Tho- 
luck,  Commentar  (Hamburg,  1836, 1840, 8vo ; translated, 
London,  1842,  2 vols.  12mo);  *Stier,  A usleyuny  (Halle, 
1842, 8vo;  Brunswick,  1862, 2 vols.  8vo) ; Maurice.  Lec- 
tures (London,  1846,  8vo) ; Stengel,  ErMdruny  (Karls- 
ruhe, 1849,  8vo) ; *Delitzsch,  Commentar  (Leipz.  1850, 
8vo;  translated,  Edinburgh,  1868-70,2  vols.8vo);  Miller, 
Notes  (Lond.  1851, 12mo) ; *T urner,  Commentary  (N.  Y. 
1S52, 8vo) ; Ellard,  Commentary  (Edinburgh,  1854, 8vo) ; 
Liineman,  ErMdruny  (Gotting.  1855,  8vo) ; Tait,  Expo- 
sition (Lond.  1855, 2 vols.  12mo);  Patterson,  Commenta- 
ry (Edinb.  1856,  8vo);  F.  S.  Sampson,  Commentary  [ed. 
by  Dabney]  (New  York,  1856,  8vo)  ; Boult  bee,  Lectures 
(London,  1856, 12ino);  Anon.  Comparison  u-ith  Old  Test. 
(Lond.  1857, 12mo) ; Am.  Bib.  Union,  Trans,  with  Notes 
(N.  Y.  1858,  4to)  ; Haldane,  Notes  (Lond.  1860,  12mo); 
Knowles,  .Votes  (Lond.  1862, 8 vo) ; John  Brown,  Expo- 
sition (Lond.  1862,  2 vols.  8vo)  ; Kluge,  ErMdruny  (Neu 
Rup.  1863,  8vo);  Dale,  Discourses  (London,  1865,  8vo); 
Blech,  P redly  ten  (Danz.  1865,  in  pts.  8vo) ; Hartmann, 
Ausley.  (Berk  1866,  8vo);  Longking,  Notes  (N.  Y.  1867, 
12mo) : Lindsay,  Lectures  (Edinb.  1867,  5 vols.  8vo) ; 
Kurtz,  ErMdr.  (Mitau,  1869, 8vo) ; Ewakl,  EcMdr.  (Gott. 
1870, 8vo).  See  Evistle. 

He'bron(lIeb.  Chebron',  *|‘H2n,  a community;  Sept. 
Xej3oiov),  the  name  of  an  important  city  ami  of  several 
men,  also  (in  a different  Heb.  form)  of  a smaller  town. 

1.  A place  in  the  south  of  Palestine,  situated  20  Ro- 
man miles  south  of  Jerusalem,  and  the  same  distance 
north  of  Beersheba  (Eusebius,  Onom.  s.  v.  ‘April}) ; and 
still  extant,  18  miles  south  from  Jerusalem,  in  31°  32' 
30"  N.  lat.,  35°  8'  20"  E.  long.,  at  the  height  of  2(564 
Paris  feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea  (Schubert).  It  is 
one  of  the  most  ancient  cities  existing,  having  been 
built  “seven  years  before  Zoan  in  Egypt,”  and  being 
mentioned  even  prior  to  Damascus  (Numb,  xiii.22 ; Gen. 
xiii,  18 ; comp,  xv,  2).  Its  earlier  name  was  Kirjath- 
arba,  that  is,  the  city  of  A rba,  from  Arba,  the  father  of 
Anak  and  of  the  Anakim  who  dwelt  in  and  around  He- 
bron (Gen.  xxiii,  2 ; Josh.xiv,  15;  xv,  3;  xxi,  11;  Judg. 
i,  10).  It  appears  still  earlier  to  have  been  called  Mam- 
re,  probably  from  the  name  of  Abraham’s  Amoritish 
ally  (Gen.  xxiii,  19;  xxxv,  27;  eomp.  xiv,  13,28);^  hut 
the  “oak  of  Mature,”  where  the  patriarch  so  often  pitch- 
ed his  tent,  appears  to  have  been  not  in,  but  near  He- 
bron. (See  below.)  The  chief  interest  of  this  city 
arises  from  its  having  been  the  scene  of  some  of  the 
most  remarkable  events  in  the  lives  of  the  patriarchs. 
Sarah  died  at  Ilebron,  and  Abraham  then  bought  from 
Ephron  the  Hittite  the  field  and  cave  of  Machpelah.  to 
serve  as  a family  tomb  (Gen.  xxiii,  2-20).  The  cave  is 
still  there,  and  the  massive  walls  of  the  Haram  or 
mosque,  within  which  it  lies,  form  the  most  remarkable 
object  in  the  whole  city.  The  ancient  city  lay  in  a val- 
ley, and  the  two  remaining  pools,  one  of  which  at  least 


HEBRON 


150 


HEBRON 


existed  in  the  time  of  David,  serve,  with  other  circum-  1 
stances,  to  identify  the  modern  with  the  ancient  site 
(Gen.  xxxvii,  14;  2 Sam.  iv,  12).  Much  of  the  life- 
time of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob  was  spent  in  this 
neighborhood,  where  they  were  all  entombed,  and  it  was 
from  hence  that  the  patriarchal  family  departed  for 
Egypt  by  the  way  of  Bcerslieba  (Gen.  xxxvii,  14;  xlvi, 
1).  After  the  return  of  the  Israelites,  the  city  was  taken 
by  Joshua  and  given  over  to  Caleb,  who  expelled  the 
Anakim  from  its  territories  (Josh,  x,  36, 37 ; xiv,  6-15; 
xv,  13-14 ; Jiulg.  i,  20).  It  was  afterwards  made  one  of 
the  cities  of  refuge,  and  assigned  to  the  priests  and  Le- 
vites  (Josh,  xx,  7;  xxi,  11,  13).  David,  on  becoming 
king  of  Judah,  made  Hebron  his  royal  residence.  Here 
he  reigned  seven  years  and  a half,  here  most  of  his  sons 
were  born,  and  here  he  was  anointed  king  over  all  Israel 
(1  Sam.  ii,  1-4, 11;  1 Kings  ii,  11 ; 2 Sam.  v,  1, 3).  On 
this  extension  of  his  kingdom  Hebron  ceased  to  be  suffi- 
ciently central,  and  Jerusalem  then  became  the  metrop- 
olis. It  is  possible  that  this  step  excited  a degree  of 
discontent  in  Hebron  which  afterwards  encouraged  Ab- 
salom to  raise  in  that  city  the  standard  of  rebellion 
against  his  father  (2  Kings  xv,  3, 10).  Hebron  was  one 
of  the  places  fortified  by  Rehoboam  (2  Chron.  xi,  10) ; 
and  after  the  exile,  the  Jews  who  returned  to  Palestine 
occupied  Hebron  and  the  surrounding  villages  (Neh.  xi, 
15).  Hebron  is  not  named  by  the  prophets,  nor  in  the 
New  Testament ; but  we  learn  from  the  Apocrypha,  and 
from  Josephus,  that  it  came  into  the  power  of  the  Edom- 
ites, who  had  taken  possession  of  the  south  of  Judah, 
and  was  recovered  from  them  by  Judas  Maccabams  (1 
Macc.  v,  65 ; Josephus,  A nt.  xii,  8,  6).  During  the  great 
war,  Hebron  was  seized  by  the  rebel  Simon  Giorides,  but 
was  recaptured  and  burnt  by  Cerealis,  an  officer  of  Ves- 
pasian (Joseph.  War,  iv,  9;  vii,  9).  Josephus  describes 
the  tombs  of  the  patriarchs  as  existing  in  his  day;  and 
both  Eusebius  and  Jerome,  and  all  subsequent  writers 
who  mention  Hebron  down  to  the  time  of  the  Crusades, 
speak  of  the  place  chiefly  as  containing  these  sepulchres. 
In  the  course  of  time,  the  remarkable  structure  enclosing 
the  tombs  of  Abraham  and  the  other  patriarchs  was 
called  the  “ Castle  of  Abraham ;”  and  by  an  easy  transi- 
tion, this  name  came  to  be  applied  to  the  city  itself,  till 
in  the  time  of  the  Crusades  the  names  of  llebron  and 
Castle  of  Abraham  were  used  interchangeably.  Hence, 
as  Abraham  is  also  distinguished  among  the  Moslems  by 
the  appellation  of  el-Khulil,  “the  Friend”  (of  God),  this 
latter  epithet  became,  among  them,  the  name  of  the 
city;  and  they  now  know  Hebron  only  as  el-Khulil 
(Robinson’s  Researches,  ii,  456).  Soon  after  the  Crusa- 
ders had  taken  Jerusalem,  llebron  also  appears  to  have 
passed  into  their  hands,  and  in  1100  was  bestowed  as  a 
lief  upon  Gerhard  of  Avenues;  but  two  years  after  it  is 
described  as  being  in  ruins  (Wilken,  Gesch.  tier  Krenz.  ii, 
44;  Saewulf,  Peregrin,  p.  269).  In  1167  Hebron  was 
raised  to  the  rank  of  a bishopric  (Will.  Tvr.  xx.  3),  and 
the  title  of  bishop  of  Hebron  long  remained  in  the  Rom- 
ish  Church,  for  it  occurs  so  late  as  A.D.  1365.  But  it 
was  merely  nominal;  for  after  the  capture  of  Jerusalem 
by  Saladin  in  1187, Hebron  also  reverted  to  the  Moslems, 
and  has  ever  since  remained  in  their  possession.  In  the 
modern  history  of  llebron,  the  most  remarkable  circum- 
stance is  the  part  which  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  and 
district  took  in  the  rebellion  of  1834,  and  the  heavy  ret- 
ribution which  it  brought  down  upon  them.  They  held 
out  to  the  last,  and  gave  battle  to  Ibrahim  Dasha  near 
Solomon’s  Pools.  They  were  defeated,  but  retired  and 
intrenched  themselves  in  llebron,  which  Ibrahim  car- 
ried bv  storm,  and  gave  over  to  sack  and  pillage.  The 
town  has  not  yet  recovered  from  the  blow  it  then  sus- 
tained. In  the.  14th  century  pilgrims  passed  from  Sinai 
to  Jerusalem  direct  through  the  desert  by  Beersheba 
and  Hebron.  In  the  following  century  this  route  seems 
to  have  been  abandoned  for  that  by  Gaza;  yet  the  pil- 
grims sometimes  took  Hebron  in  their  way,  or  visited  it 
from  Gaza.  The  travellers  of  that  period  describe  as 
existing  here  an  immense  charitable  establishment,  or 


hospital,  where  1200  loaves  of  bread,  besides  oil  and  oth- 
er condiments,  were  daily  distributed  to  all  comers,  with- 
out distinction  of  age  or  religion,  at  the  annual  expense 
of  20,000  ducats.  Hebron  continued  to  be  occasionally 
visited  by  European  travellers  down  to  the  latter  part 
of  the  17th  century,  but  from  that  time  till  the  present 
century  it  appears  to  have  been  little  frequented  by 
them.  The  principal  travellers  who  have  been  more  re- 
cently there  are  Seetzen,  Ali  Bey,  Irby  and  Mangles, 
Poujoulat,  Monro,  Stephens,  Paxton,  Lord  Lindsay,  Rus- 
segger,  Schubert,  Dr.  Robinson,  Dr.  Oliu,  De  Saulcy, 
Stanley,  etc. 

The  town  of  Hebron  lies  low  on  the  sloping  sides  of  a 
narrow  valley  (of  Mamre),  surrounded  by  rocky  hills. 
This  is  thought  to  be  the  “valley  of  Eslicol,”  whence 
the  Jewish  spies  got  the  great  bunch  of  grapes  (Numb, 
xiii,  23).  Its  sides  are  still  clothed  with  luxuriant  vine- 
yards, and  its  grapes  are  considered  the  finest  in  South- 
ern Palestine.  Groves  of  gray  olives,  and  some  other 
fruit-trees,  give  variety  to  the  scene.  The  valley  runs 
from  north  to  south ; and  the  main  quarter  of  the  town, 
surmounted  by  the  lofty  walls  of  the  venerable  Ilaram , 
lies  partly  on  the  eastern  slope  (Gen.  xxxvii,  14 ; comp, 
xxiii,  19).  The  houses  are  all  of  stone,  solidly  built,  flat- 
roofed,  each  having  one  or  two  small  cupolas.  The  town 
has  no  walls.  The  streets  are  narrow,  seldom  more  than 
two  or  three  yards  in  width ; the  pavement,  where  one 
exists,  is  rough  and  difficult.  The  shops  are  well  fur- 
nished, better  indeed  than  those  of  towns  of  the  same 
class  in  Egypt,  and  the  commodities  are  of  a very  simi- 
lar description.  The  only  display  of  local  manufactures 
is  the  produce  of  the  glass-works,  for  which  the  place 
has  long  been  celebrated  in  these  parts.  Gates  are 
placed  not  only  at  the  entrance  of  the  city,  but  in  differ- 
i ent  parts  of  the  interior,  and  are  closed  at  night  for  the 
I better  preservation  of  order,  as  well  as  to  prevent  com- 
munication between  the  different  quarters. 

There  are  nine  mosques  in  llebron,  none  of  which 
possess  any  architectural  or  other  interest,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  massive  structure  which  is  built  over  the 
tombs  of  the  patriarchs.  This  is  esteemed  by  the  Mos- 
lems one  of  their  holiest  places,  and  Christians  are  rig- 
orously excluded  from  it.  The  only  Europeans  who, 
until  a late  period,  have  found  their  way  to  the  interior, 
were  Ali  Bey  and  Giovanni  Finati,  the  Italian  servant  of 
Air.  Bankes.  The  best  account  of  it  is  that  furnished 
by  the  Rev.  V.  Monro,  who  states  that  “ the  mosque, 
which  covers  the  cave  of  Maclipelali,  and  contains  the 
patriarchal  tombs,  is  a square  building,  with  little  exter- 
nal decoration,  at  the  south  end  of  the  town.  Behind  it 
is  a small  cupola,  with  eight  or  ten  windows,  beneath 
which  is  the  tomb  of  Esau,  excluded  from  the  privilege 
of  lying  among  the  patriarchs.  Ascending  from  the 
street,  at  the  corner  of  the  mosque,  you  pass  through  an 
arched  way  by  a flight  of  steps  to  a wide  platform,  at 
the  end  of  which  is  another  short  ascent ; to  the  left  is 
the  court,  out  of  which,  to  the  left  again,  you  enter  the 
mosque.  The  dimensions  within  are  about  forty  paces 
by  twenty-five.  Immediately  on  the  right  of  the  door 
is  the  tomb  of  Sarah,  and  beyond  it  that  of  Abraham, 
having  a passage  between  them  into  the  court.  Com- 
spondingwitli  these,  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  mosque, 
are  those  of  Isaac  and  Rebekali,  and  behind  them  is  a 
recess  for  prayer,  and  a pulpit.  These  tombs  resemble 
small  huts,  with  a window  on  each  side  and  folding- 
doors  in  front,  the  lower  parts  of  which  are  of  wood, 
and  the  upper  of  iron  or  bronze  bars  plated.  Within 
each  of  these  is  an  imitation  of  the  sarcophagus  that 
lies  in  the  cave  below  the  mosque,  which  no  one  is  al- 
lowed to  enter.  Those  seen  above  resemble  coflins  with 
pyramidal  tops,  and  are  covered  with  green  silk,  lettered 
with  verses  from  the  Koran.  The  doors  of  these  tombs 
I are  left  constantly  open ; but  no  one  enters  those  of  the 
women — at  least  men  do  not.  In  the  mosque  is  a balda- 
kin,  supported  by  four  columns,  over  an  octagonal  figure 
' of  black  and  white  marble  inlaid,  around  a small  hole  in 
I the  pavement,  through  which  a chain  passes  from  the 


HEBRON 


151 


HEBRON 


top  of  the  canopy  to  a lamp  continually  burning  to  give 
light  in  the  cave  of  Machpelah,  where  the  actual  sar- 
cophagi rest.  At  the  upper  end  of  the  court  is  the 
chief  place  of  prayer;  and  on  the  opposite  side  of  the 
mosque  are  two  larger  tombs,  where  are  deposited  the 
bodies  of  Jacob  and  Leah”  (a Summer's  Ramble,  i,  245). 
The  cave  itself  he  does  not  describe,  nor  does  it  appear 
that  even  Moslems  are  admitted  to  it;  for  Ali  Bey  (a 
Spaniard  travelling  as  a Moslem)  does  not  even  mention 
the  cave  below  while  describing  the  shrines  of  the 
mosque.  John  Sanderson  (A.D.  1001)  expressly  says 
that  none  might  enter,  but  that  persons  might  view  it, 
as  far  as  the  lamp  allowed,  through  the  hole  at  the  top, 
Moslems  being  furnished  with  more  light  for  the  pur- 
pose than  Jews.  At  an  earlier  period,  however,  when 
the  Holy  Land  was  in  the  power  of  the  Christians,  ac- 
cess was  not  denied;  and  Benjamin  of  Tudela  says  that 
the  sarcophagi  above  ground  were  shown  to  the  gener- 
ality of  pilgrims  as  what  they  desired  to  see;  but  if  a 
rich  Jew  offered  an  additional  fee,  ‘‘an  iron  door  is  open- 
ed, which  dates  from  the  time  of  our  forefathers  who 
rest  in  peace,  and,  with  a burning  taper  in  his  hands, 
the  visitor  descends  into  a first  cave,  which  is  empty, 
traverses  a second  in  the  same  state,  and  at  last  reaches 
a third,  which  contains  six  sepulchres,  those  of  Abra- 
ham, Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and  of  Sarah,  Rcbekah,  and 
Leah,  one  opposite  the  other.  All  these  sepulchres  bear 
inscriptions,  the  letters  being  engraved ; thus,  upon  that 
of  Abraham:  ‘ This  is  the  sepulchre  of  our  father  Abra- 
ham, upon  whom  be  peace;’  even  so  upon  that  of  Isaac 
and  all  the  other  sepulchres.  A lamp  burns  in  the  cave 
and  upon  the  sepulchres  continually,  both  night  and 
day;  and  you  there  see  tubs  tilled  with  the  bones  of  Is- 
raelites; for  it  is  a custom  of  the  house  of  Israel  to  bring 
hither  the  bones  and  relics  of  their  forefathers,  and  leave 
them  there,  unto  this  day”  (Itinerary,  i,  77 ; ed.  Asher, 
Berlin,  1840).  The  identity  of  this  place  with  the  cave 
of  Machpelah  is  one  of  the  few  local  traditions  in  Pales- 
tine which  even  l)r.  Robinson  suffers  to  pass  without 
dispute,  and  may  therefore  be  taken  for  granted.  51. 
Pierotti,  an  engineer  to  the  pasha  of  Jerusalem,  has 
lately  had  an  opportunity  of  leisurely  examining  the 
building;  and  in  the  spring  of  the  year  1802  the  prince 
of  Wales  and  his  suite  were  allowed  to  visit  the  inte- 
rior, of  which  a description  is  given  in  App.  ii  to  Stan- 
ley’s Lectures  on  the  Jewish  Church,  pt.  i : “ We  reached 
the  south-eastern  corner  of  the  massive  wall  of  inclosure. 
. . . Up  the  steep  flight  of  the  exterior  staircase,  gazing 
close  at  hand  on  the  polished  surface  of  the  wall,  amply 
justifying  Josephus’s  account  of  the  marble-like  appear- 
ance of  the  huge  stones  which  compose  it,  we  rapidly 
mounted.  At  the  head  of  the  staircase,  which  by  its 
long  ascent  showed  that  the  platform  of  the  mosque  was 
on  the  uppermost  slope  of  the  hill,  and  therefore  above 
the  level  where,  if  anywhere,  the  sacred  cave  would  be 
found,  a sharp  turn  at  once  brought  us  within  the  pre- 
cincts, and  revealed  to  us  for  the  first  time  the  wall  from 
the  inside.  . . . We  passed  at  once  through  an  open 
court  into  the  mosque.  With  regard  to  the  building 
itself,  two  points  at  once  became  apparent.  First,  it 
■was  clear  that  it  had  been  originally  a Byzantine  church. 
To  any  one  acquainted  with  the  cathedral  of  St.  Sophia 
at  Constantinople,  and  with  the  monastic  churches  of 
Mount  Athos,  this  is  evident  from  the  double  narthex, 
or  portico,  and  from  the  four  pillars  of  the  nave.  Sec- 
ondly, it  was  clear  that  it  had  been  converted  at  a much 
later  period  into  a mosque.  ...  I now  proceed  to  de- 
scribe the  tombs  of  the  patriarchs,  premising  always 
that  these  tombs,  like  all  those  in  Mussulman  mosques, 
and,  indeed,  like  most  tombs  in  Christian  churches,  do 
not  profess  to  be  the  actual  places  of  sepulture,  but  are 
merely  monuments  or  cenotaphs  in  honor  of  the  dead 
who  lie  beneath.  Each  is  inclosed  with  a separate 
chapel  or  shrine,  closed  with  gates  or  railings  similar  to 
those  which  surround  or  enclose  the  special  chapels  or 
royal  tombs  in  Westminster  Abbey.  The  first  two  of 
these  shrines  or  chapels  are  contained  in  the  inner  por- 


1 tico,  or  narthex,  before  the  entrance  into  the  actual 
building  of  the  mosque.  In  the  recess  on  the  right  is 
the  shrine  of  Abraham,  in  the  recess  on  the  left  that  of 
Sarah,  each  guarded  by  silver  gates.  The  shrine  of 
Sarah  we  were  requested  not  to  enter,  as  being  that  of  a 
woman.  A pall  lay  over  it.  The  shrine  of  Abraham, 
after  a momentary  hesitation,  was  thrown  open.  The 
chamber  is  cased  in  marble.  The  so-called  tomb  con- 
sists of  a coffin-like  structure,  about  six  feet  high,  built 
up  of  plastered  stone  or  marble,  and  hung  with  three 
carpets  — green  embroidered  with  gold.  Within  the 
area  of  the  church  or  mosque  were  shown  the  tombs  of 
Isaac  and  Ilebekah.  They  arc  placed  under  separate 
chapels,  in  the  walls  of  which  are  windows,  and  of  which 
the  gates  are  grated,  not  with  silver,  but  iron  bars. 
Their  situation,  planted  as  they  are  in  the  body  of  the 
mosque,  may  indicate  their  Christian  origin.  In  almost 
all  Mussulman  sanctuaries,  the  tombs  of  distinguished 
persons  are  placed,  not  in  the  centre  of  the  building,  but 
in  the  corners.  To  Rebekah’s  tomb  the  same  decorous 
rule  of  the  exclusion  of  male  visitors  naturally  applied 
as  in  the  case  of  Sarah’s.  But  on  requesting  to  see  the 
tomb  of  Isaac,  we  were  entreated  not  to  enter.  . . . The 
chapel,  in  fact,  contains  nothing  of  interest ; but  I men- 
tion this  story  both  for  the  sake  of  the  singular  senti- 
ment which  it  expresses,  and  also  because  it  well  illus- 
trates the  peculiar  feeling  which  has  tended  to  preserve 
the  sanctity  of  the  place — an  awe,  amounting  to  terror, 
of  the  great  personages  who  lay  beneath,  and  who 
would,  it  was  supposed,  be  sensitive  to  any  disrespect 
shown  to  their  graves,  and  revenge  it  accordingly.  The 
shrines  of  Jacob  and  Leah  were  shown  in  recesses,  cor- 
responding to  those  of  Abraham  and  Sarah,  but  in  a 
separate  cloister  opposite  the  entrance  of  the  mosque. 
...  It  will  be  seen  that  up  to  this  point  no  mention 
has  been  made  of  the  subject  of  the  greatest  interest, 
namely,  the  sacred  cave  itself,  in  which  one  at  least  of 
the  patriarchal  family  may  possibly  still  repose  intact — 
the  embalmed  body  of  Jacob.  It  may  well  be  supposed 
that  to  this  object  our  inquiries  throughout  were  direct- 
ed. One  indication  alone  of  the  cavern  beneath  was 
visible.  In  the  interior  of  the  mosque,  at  the  corner  of 
the  shrine  of  Abraham,  was  a small  cireidar  hole,  about 
eight  inches  across,  of  which  one  foot  above  the  pave- 
ment was  built  of  strong  masonry,  but  of  which  the 
lower  part,  as  far  as  we  could  see  and  feel,  was  of  the 
living  rock.  This  cavity  appeared  to  open  into  a dark 
space  beneath,  and  that  space  (which  the  guardians  of 
the  mosque  believed  to  extend  under  the  whole  plat- 
form) can  hardly  be  anything  else  than  the  ancient  cav- 
ern of  Machpelah.  This  was  the  oidy  aperture  which 
the  guardians  recognised.  Once,  they  said,  2500  years 
ago,  a servant  of  a great  king  had  penetrated  through 
some  other  entrance.  He  descended  in  full  possession 
of  his  faculties  and  of  remarkable  corpulence ; lie  return- 
ed blind,  deaf,  withered,  and  crippled.  Since  then  the 
entrance  was  closed,  and  this  aperture  alone  was  left, 
partly  for  the  sake  of  suffering  the  holy  air  of  the  cave 
to  escape  into  the  mosque,  and  be  scented  by  the  faith- 
fid;  partly  for  the  sake  of  allowing  a lamp  to  be  let 
down  by  a chain,  which  we  saw  suspended  at  the  mouth, 
to  burn  upon  the  sacred  cave.  We  asked  whether  it 
coidd  not  be  lighted  now.  ‘ Xo,’  they  said ; ‘ the  saint 
likes  to  have  a lamp  at  night,  but  not  in  the  full  day- 
light.’ With  that  glimpse  into  the  dark  void  we  and 
the  world  without  must  for  the  present  be  satisfied. 
Whether  any  other  entrance  is  known  to  the  Mussul- 
mans themselves  must  be  a matter  of  doubt.  The  orig- 
inal entrance  to  the  cave  if  it  is  now  to  be  found  at  all, 
must  probably  be  on  the  southern  face  of  the  hill,  be- 
tween the  mosque  and  the  gallery  containing  the  shrine 
of  Joseph,  and  entirely  obstructed  by  the  ancient  Jew- 
ish wall,  probably  built  across  it  for  this  very  purpose.” 
This  account  is  somewhat  at  variance  with  the  results 
of  the  researches  of  51.  Pierotti,  who  states,  in  a letter  to 
the  London  Times,  April  30, 1862,  “The  tme  entrance  to 
the  patriarchs’  tomb  is  to  be  seen  close  to  the  western 


HEBROX 


152 


HECKEWELDER 


wall  of  the  enclosure,  and  near  the  north-west  comer ; it 
is  guarded  by  a very  thick  iron  railing,  and  I was  not 
allowed  to  go  near  it,  I observed  that  the  Mussulmans 
themselves  did  not  go  very  near  it.  In  the  court  oppo- 
site the  entrance-gate  of  the  mosque  there  is  an  open- 
ing, through  which  I was  allowed  to  go  down  for  three 
steps,  and  I was  able  to  ascertain  by  sight  and  touch 
that  the  rock  exists  there,  and  to  conclude  it  to  be  about 
live  feet  thick.  From  the  short  observations  I could 
make  during  my  brief  descent,  as  also  from  the  consid- 
eration of  the  east  wall  of  the  mosque,  and  the  little  in- 
formation I extracted  from  the  chief  santon,  who  jeal- 
ously guards  the  sanctuary,  I consider  that  a part  of  the 
grotto  exists  under  the  mosque,  and  that  the  other  part 
is  under  the  court,  but  at  a lower  level  than  that  lying 
under  the  mosque.”  See  Machpelaii. 

The  court  in  which  the  mosque  stands  is  surrounded 
by  an  extensive  and  lofty  wall,  formed  of  large  stones, 
and  strengthened  by  square  buttresses.  This  wall  is  the 
greatest  antiquity  in  Hebron,  and  even  Ur.  I’obinson 
supposes  that  it  may  be  substantially  the  same  which  is 
mentioned  by  Josephus  (A  nt.  i,  14 ; War,  iv,  9,  7),  and 
by  Eusebius  and  Jerome  ( Onomast . s.  v.  Arbocli),  as  the 
sepulchre  of  Abraham.  A common  Moslem  tomb  in  the 
neighborhood  of  Hebron  passes  as  the  tomb  of  Abner. 
He  was  certainly  interred  in  this  city  (2  Sam.  iii,  32); 
and  the  head  of  Ishbosheth,  after  his  assassination,  was 
deposited  in  the  same  sepulchre  (2  Sam.  iv.  12);  but 
there  is  slight  evidence  in  favor  of  the  tradition  which 
professes  to  point  out  this  locality  to  the  modern  travel- 
ler. Besides  this  venerable  wall,  there  is  nothing  at 
Hebron  bearing  the  stamp  of  antiquity  save  two  reser- 
voirs for  rain-water  outside  the  town.  One  of  these  is 
just  without  the  southern  gate,  in  the  bottom  of  the  val- 
ley. It  is  a large  basin  133  feet  square,  and  21  feet  8 
inches  deep.  It  is  built  of  hewn  limestone  of  very  solid 
workmanship,  and  obviously  of  ancient  date.  The  depth 
of  water  of  course  varies  at  different  times  of  the  year: 
in  May  it  is  14  feet.  The  descent  is  by  flights  of  steps 
at  the  four  corners,  by  which  the  water  is  brought,  up  in 
vessels  and  skins,  and  poured  out  into  troughs  for  the 
flocks,  or  carried  away  for  domestic  uses.  Just  at  the 
north  end  of  the  main  part  of  the  town  is  another  and 
smaller  pool,  also  occupying  the  bed  of  the  valley,  and 
measuring  85  feet  by  55,  with  a depth  of  18J  feet,  con- 
taining (in  5 lay)  7 feet  of  water.  These  cisterns,  which 
are  connected  with  no  perennial  springs,  and  which  are 
filled  only  by  the  rains,  seem  (at  least  in  summer)  to  be 
the  main  dependence  of  the  inhabitants  for  water,  al- 
though that  of  the  larger  pool  is  neither  clear  nor  clean. 
As  these  pools  are  doubtless  of  high  antiquity,  one  of 
them  is  in  all  likelihood  the  “pool  of  Hebron”  over 
which  David  hanged  up  the  assassins  of  Ishbosheth  (2 
Sam.  iv,  12). 

The  present  popidation  of  Hebron  has  not  been  clear- 
ly ascertained,  but  is  probably  about  5000.  Most  of  the 
inhabitants  are  Moslems,  of  tierce  and  intolerant  char- 
acter. There  are  no  resident  Christians.  The  Jews 
amount  to  about  50  families,  mostly  natives  of  different 
countries  of  Europe,  who  have  emigrated  to  this  place 
for  the  purpose  of  having  their  bones  laid  near  the  sep- 
ulchres of  their  illustrious  ancestors.  They  have  two 
synagogues  and  several  sehools.  As  usual,  they  have  a 
quarter  of  the  city  to  themselves,  where  the  streets  are 
narrow  and  filthy,  and  the  houses  mean.  In  a few  in- 
stances, however,  they  arc  in  tolerable  repair,  and  white- 
washed. 

The  environs  of  Hebron  are  very  fertile.  Vineyards 
and  plantations  of  fruit-trees,  chiefly  olive-trees,  cover 
the  valleys  and  arable  grounds;  while  the  tops  and  sides 
of  the  hills,  although  stony,  are  covered  with  rich  pas- 
tures, which  support  a great  number  of  cattle,  sheep, 
and  goats,  constituting  an  important  branch  of  the  in- 
dustry and  wealth  of  Hebron.  The  hill-country  of  Ju- 
dah, of  which  it  is  the  capital,  is  indeed  highly  produc- 
tive, and  under  a paternal  government  would  be  capa- 
ble of  sustaining  a large  population.  That  it  did  so 


once  is  manifest  from  the  great  number  and  extent  of 
ruined  terraces  and  dilapidated  towns.  It  is  at  present 
abandoned,  and  cultivation  ceases  at  the  distance  of  two 
miles  north  of  the  town.  The  hills  then  become  cov- 
ered with  prickly  and  other  stunted  trees,  which  furnish 
Bethlehem  and  other  villages  with  wood.  About  a mile 
from  the  town,  up  the  valley,  is  one  of  the  largest  oak- 
trees  in  Palestine.  It  stands  quite  alone  in  the  midst 
of  the  vineyards.  1 1 is  23  feet  in  girth,  and  its  branches 
cover  a space  90  feet  in  diameter.  This,  say  some,  is 
the  very  tree  beneath  which  Abraham  pitched  his  tent ; 
but,  however  this  may  be,  it  still  bears  the  name  of  the 
patriarch  (Porter’s  Handbook, p.67 sq.). — Kitto;  .Smith; 
Fairbairn. 

2.  The  third  son  of  Koliath  the  Levite,  and  hence 
the  uncle  of  Moses  (Exod.  vi,  18 ; 1 Cliron.  vi,  2, 18 ; xv, 
9;  xxiii,  12, 19).  B.C.  ante  1738.  His  descendants  are 
called  Hebronites  (Numb,  iii,  27,  etc.). 

3.  A son  of  Mareshali,  and  apparently  grandson  of 
Caleb  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  ii,  42, 43).  B.C.  post  1612. 

4.  (Ileb.  Ebron',  prob.  for  jin" ",  Abdon,  as 

many  MSS.  read ; Sept.  'E/tyair,  Vulg.  A bran.)  A town 
on  the  northern  border  of  Asher  (Josh,  xix,  28) ; pos- 
sibly the  same  (Keil,  Comment,  in  loc.)  elsewhere  (Josh, 
xxi,  30)  called  Abdon  (q.  v.). 

He'bronite  (Ileb.  ChebronV, Sept.  Xffiptvv 
and  Xe/3pwi'i,  Vulg.  Ih  bronitiv),  a designation  of  the  de- 
scendants of  Hebron,  the  third  son  of  Koliath,  who  was 
the  second  son  of  Levi,  the  younger  brother  of  Amram, 
father  of  Moses  and  Aaron  (Exod.  vi,  18;  Numb,  iii,  19; 
1 Chron.  vi,  2, 18 ; xxiii,  12).  The  immediate  children 
of  Ilchron  are  not  mentioned  by  name  (comp.  Exod.  vi, 
21, 22), but  he  was  the  founder  of  a “family”  (mishpa- 
chah)  of  Hebronites  (Numb,  iii,  27 ; xxvi,  58;  1 Chron. 
xxvi,  23, 30,31)  or  Benc-Hebron  (1  Chron.  xv,  9;  xxiii, 
19),  who  are  often  mentioned  in  the  enumerations  of  the 
Levitcs  in  the  passages  above  cited.  Jeriaii  was  the 
head  of  the  family  in  the  time  of  David  (1  Chron.  xxiii, 
19;  xxvi,  31;  xxiv,  23:  in  the  last  of  these  passages 
the  name  of  Hebron  does  not  now  exist  in  the  Hebrew, 
but  has  been  supplied  in  the  A.  V.  from  the  other  lists). 
In  the  last  year  of  David’s  reign  we  find  them  settled  at 
Jazcr,  in  Gilead  (a  place  not  elsewhere  named  as  a Le- 
vitical  city),  “ mighty  men  of  valor”  (3jn  ^2),  2700  in 
number,  who  were  superintendents  for  the  king  over  the 
two  and  a half  tribes  in  regard  to  all  matters  sacred  and 
secular  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  31, 32).  At  the  same  time  1700 
of  the  family  under  Ilashabiali  held  the  same  office  on 
the  west  of  Jordan  (ver.  30) — Smith. 

Heckewelder,  John  Gottlieb  Ernestus,  a dis- 
tinguished Moravian  missionary  among  the  Indians  of 
North  America,  born  at  Bedford,  England,  Mar.  12, 1743, 
where  his  father,  who  had  fled  from  Moravia  for  the 
sake  of  religious  liberty,  was  engaged  in  the  service  of 
the  Church.  On  the  2d  of  April,  1754,  young  Hccke- 
weldcr  came  to  America  with  his  parents.  At  the  age 
of  nineteen  years  (1762)  he  accompanied  Christian  Fred- 
erick Post,  an  Indian  teacher  and  colonial  agent,  to 
the  Tuscarawas  Valley,  in  Ohio,  where  they  attempted 
to  establish  a mission  among  the  natives.  This  enter- 
prise proving  a failure,  Heckewelder  labored  for  some 
time  as  the  assistant  of  David  Zcisbergcr,  on  the  Sus- 
quehanna. In  the  spring  of  1771  he  joined  this  illus- 
trious evangelist  at  Friedcnstadt,  on  the  Beaver  Creek, 
Pa.,  and  for  the  next  fifteen  years  shared  all  the  hard- 
ships, sufferings,  and  triumphs  of  the  Indian  mission,  at 
its  various  stations  in  Ohio  and  Michigan.  See  Zeis- 
berger,  David.  In  the  course  of  this  period  he  mar- 
ried Miss  Sarah  Ohnebcrg  (July  4, 1780),  at  Salem,  Ohio, 
which  was  probably  the  first  wedding  ever  solemnized 
in  that  state.  Having  severed  his  connection  with  the 
mission  (October,  1786)  on  account  of  his  wife’s  feeble 
health,  he  was  appointed  (1788)  agent  of  the  “ Society 
of  the  United  Brethren  for  propagating  the  Gospel 
among  the  Heathen”  [see  Ettwein,  John],  and  made 


HEDDING 


153 


HEDGE 


repeated  but  unsuccessful  attempts,  in  consequence  of 
the  Indian  War,  to  survey  a tract  of  land  in  the  Tusca- 
rawas Yallev,  granted  to  the  Christian  Indians  by  Con- 
gress as  an  indemnification  for  their  losses  in  the  Revo- 
lution. In  1792  and  1793  he  was  twice  appointed  as- 
sistant peace  commissioner  by  the  United  States  gov- 
ernment, and  was  active  in  aiding  the  other  commission- 
ers to  bring  about  a pacification.  These  humane  efforts, 
however,  proved  abortive,  and  the  war  continued,  end- 
ing in  the  total  defeat  of  the  Western  tribes.  In  1801 
he  settled  at  Gnadenhlitten,  Ohio,  and  devoted  himself 
to  the  duties  of  his  agency  until  1810,  when  he  resigned. 
The  rest  of  his  life  he  spent  at  Bethlehem  in  literary  la- 
bors, producing  two  works,  namely,  .1  n A ccount  of  the 
History,  Manners , and  Customs  of  the  Indian  Nations 
who  once  inhabited  Pennsylvania  and  the  neighboring 
States  (Philadelphia,  1818;  transl.  into  French  by  Du- 
ponceau,  Paris,  1822,  8vo) ; and  A Narrative  of  the  Mis- 
sion of  the  United  Brethren  among  the  Delaware  andMo- 
hegau  Indians  (Philadelphia,  1820).  He  died  January 
31,  1823.  General  Cass  criticised  his  writings  in  the 
North  Amer.  Review,  vol.  xxvi.  See  also  Rondthaler, 
Life  of  Ileckewelder  (Phila.  1817. 12mo).  (E.  de  S.) 

Hedding,  Elijah,  D.D.,  a bishop  of  the  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church,  was  born  at  Pine  Plains,  N.  Y.,  June 
7,  1780.  Trained  religiously  by  a pious  mother,  he  was 
converted  on  the  Vergennes  Circuit,  Vermont,  in  1798, 
and  in  1800  was  licensed  to  preach.  His  early  labors 
in  the  itinerant  ministry  were  full  of  toil  and  privation, 
and  he  often  met  with  fierce  persecution ; but  powerful 
revivals  followed  his  ministry,  especially  in  Vermont  and 
New  Hampshire.  On  the  lGth  of  June,  1801,  lie  was 
admitted  on  trial  in  the  New  York  Annual  Conference, 
and  appointed  to  Plattsburg Circuit ; in  1802  to  Fletcher ; 
in  1803  to  Bridgewater  Circuit, New  Hampshire;  after 
which  his  work  as  a preacher  lay  wholly  in  New  Eng- 
land. In  1807  he  was  made  presiding  elder  of  the  New 
Hampshire  District.  The  country  was  mountainous, 
newly  settled,  and  poor;  and  Mr.  lledding’s  whole  re- 
ceipts for  the  first  year  were  81  25,  besides  his  travelling 
expenses.  In  1808  he  was  elected  a delegate  to  the 
General  Conference  held  at  Baltimore.  A plan  for  a 
“delegated”  General  Conference  was  discussed  by  this 
body,  and  at  first  rejected;  a rupture  seemed  immi- 
nent, but  a reconsideration  was  brought  about,  largely 
through  lledding’s  influence,  and  the  plan  was  finally 
adopted.  In  1809  he  was  appointed  to  the  New  Lon- 
don District,  and  in  1810  ha  married.  In  the  ten 
years,  before  his  marriage  he  travelled  3000  miles  a year, 
and  preached  nearly  every  day.  His  pay  for  this  time 
averaged  845  per  annum.  “The  circuits  were  large, 
often  requiring  three  to  five  hundred  miles  to  complete 
one  round,  and  this  round  was  completed  in  from  two  to 
six  weeks,  during  which  a sermon  was  to  be  preached 
and  a class  met  daily;  and  often  three  sermons  and 
three  classes  to  be  attended  on  the  Sabbath.  The  jour- 
neys, too,  were  performed  ...  on  horseback,  through 
rough  and  miry  ways,  and  through  wildernesses  where 
no  road  as  yet  had  been  cast  up.  Rivers  and  swamps 
were  to  be  forded.  Nor  coidd  the  journey  he  delayed. 
On,  on,  must  the  itinerant  press  his  way,  through  the 
drenching  rains  of  summer,  the  chilling  sleet  of  spring 
or  autumn,  and  the  driving  blasts  or  piercing  cold  of 
winter;  and  often  amid  perils,  weariness,  hunger,  and  al- 
most nakedness,  carrying  the  Bread  of  Life  to  the  lost 
and  perishing.  And  then,  when  the  day  of  toil  was  end- 
ed, in  the  creviced  hut  of  the  frontier  settler,  the  weary 
itinerant,  among  those  of  kindred  hearts  and  sympathies, 
found  a cordial  though  humble  place  of  repose.”  .... 
“For  twenty-four  years  before  his  election  to  the  epis- 
copacy he  received  his  annual  appointments  at  Confer- 
ence, and  prosecuted  the  duties  assigned  him  on  circuits, 
and  stations,  and  presiding  elders’  districts.  The  fields 
of  his  labor  lay,  after  the  first  few  years,  wholly  in  the 
New-England  States;  and  when  the  New-England  Con- 
ference was  separated  from  New  York,  he  became  iden- 
tified with  that  work.  In  the  introduction  and  estab- 


lishment of  Methodism  in  New  England— itself  one  of 
the  most  romantic,  as  it  is  perhaps  the  best  recorded 
portion  of  Methodist  history— he  was  an  active  and  most 
efficient  agent,  and  in  its  stirring  scenes  and  forlorn  but 
heroic  labors  he  spent  the  flower  of  his  manhood;  and 
upon  it,  no  doubt,  he  left  the  impress  of  his  own  great 
spirit,  which  remains  his  noblest  and  most  enduring 
monument.”  From  1808  to  1824  he  was  a delegate  to 
every  General  Conference,  and  was  always  eminent  in 
influence  and  power  at  the  sessions  of  that  body.  In 
the  “ Presiding  Elder  Question”  at  the  Conferences  of 
1820  and  1824,  he  stood  with  those  who  favored  the 
election  of  presiding  elders  by  the  Conferences ; but  his 
zeal  in  the  cause  never  degenerated  into  rashness,  or  be- 
came liable  to  the  charge  of  disloyalty.  In  1824  he  was 
elected  bishop.  He  accepted  the  office  with  great  reluc- 
tance, and  filled  it  with  the  most  distinguished  ability 
and  acceptance  for  20  years.  “ In  the  exercise  of  the  epis- 
copal functions  he  developed  rare  qualifications  as  a pre- 
siding officer,  and  especially  as  an  expounder  of  ecclesi- 
astical law.  The  soundness  of  his  views  upon  the  doc- 
trines and  discipline  of  the  Church  was  so  fully  and  so 
universally  conceded,  that  in  the  end  he  became  almost 
an  oracle  in  these  respects,  and  his  opinions  are  regarded 
with  profound  veneration.  As  a theologian  and  divine, 
his  views  were  comprehensive,  logical,  and  well  matured. 
Not  only  had  they  been  elaborated  with  great  care,  but 
the  analysis  was  very  distinct;  and  the  successive  steps 
were  not  only  clearly  defined  in  the  original  analysis, 
but  distinct  even  in  the  minutiae  of  their  detail,  llis 
discourses  were  after  the  same  pattern — an  example  of 
neatness,  order,  perspicuity,  and  completeness.  From 
the  year  1844,  age  and  increasing  infirmities  compelled 
him  to  seek  relief  from  the  heavy  burden  of  labor  he 
had  previously  preformed,  and  his  visits  to  the  Annual 
Conferences  became  less  frequent.  Yet  his  labors  and 
responsibilities  were  still  very  great.  He  was  almost 
incessantly  sought  unto  by  ministers  in  almost  every 
part  of  the  United  States  for  counsel  and  assistance,  and 
lor  information  upon  points  of  ecclesiastical  law  and  in  the 
j administration  of  discipline.”  In  1850  he  had  a severe 
attack  of  acute  disease,  but  he  partially  recovered,  and 
1 lingered,  after  suffering  severely,  until  the  9th  of  April, 
1852,  when  he  died  in  peace  and  triumph  at  his  home  in 
Poughkeepsie.  His  intellect  suffered  neither  weakness 
nor  obscuration  to  the  last.  “About  three  o’clock  in  the 
morning,  a change  took  place  betokening  the  near  ap- 
proach of  death.  Early  in  the  morning  his  sufferings 
were  great;  his  extremities  were  cold,  and  his  death  ag- 
ony was  upon  him ; but  his  intellectual  powers — con- 
sciousness, perception,  memory,  reason,  were  unaffected. 
Several  Christian  friends  witnessed  his  dying  struggles, 
and  the  glorious  triumph  of  his  abiding  faith.  The  Rev. 
M.  Richardson  came  in,  and  inquired  whether  his  pros- 
! pect  was  clear ; he  replied  with  great  emphasis,  ‘ Oh 
yes,  yes,  yes!  I have  been  wonderfully  sustained  of 
late,  beyond  the  usual  degree.’  After  a pause,  he  add- 
ed// trust  in  Christ,  and  he  does  not  disappoint  me.  I 
, feel  him,  I enjoy  him,  (aid  I look  forward  to  an  inherit- 
ance in  his  kingdom.'’  ’’  A full  account  of  the  labors  of 
this  great  and  good  man  will  be  found  in  the  Life  and 
Times  of  the  Rev.  E.  Bedding,  D.D.,  by  D.  W.  Clark,  D.l  >. 
(New  York,  1855,  8vo;  reviewed  by  Dr.  Curry  in  the 
Methodist  Quarterly,  Oet.  1855);  see  also  Stevens,  His- 
tory of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church;  Sprague,  A n- 
nals,  vii,  354 ; North  A merican  Review,  lxxxii.  349. 

Hedge,  the  rendering  in  the  A.  V.  (besides  deriva- 
tives from  “"3  or  “Z3,  rendered  as  a verb),  1,  of  three 
words  from  the  same  root  (“"£),  which,  as  well  as  their 
Greek  equivalent  ( Qpayfto f),  denotes  simply  that  which 
surrounds  or  encloses,  whether  it  be  a stone  wall  (“"J5, 
ge’der,  Prov.  xxiv,  31 ; Ezek.  xlii,  10)  or  a fence  of  other 
materials.  “"15,  gader’,  and  gederah’,  are  used 

of  the  hedge  of  a vineyard  (Numb,  xxii,  24 ; Psa.  Ixxxix, 
40;  1 Chron.  iv,  234 ; and  the  latter  is  employed  to  de- 
scribe the  wide  walls  of  stone,  or  fences  of  thorn,  which 


HEDGE 


154 


HEERMANN 


served  as  a shelter  for  sheep  in  winter  and  summer  j 
(Numb,  xxxii,  10).  The  stone  walls  which  surround 
the  slieepfolds  of  modern  Palestine  are  frequently  crown-  | 
ed  with  sharp  thorns  (Thomson,  Land  and  Book,  i,  299), 
a custom  at  least  as  ancient  as  the  time  of  Homer  ( Od . 
xiv,  10),  when  a kind  of  prickly  pear  (ay  t pc  or)  was 
used  for  that  purpose,  as  well  as  for  the  fences  of  corn- 
fields at  a later  period  (Arist.  Keel.  355).  In  order  to 
protect  the  vineyards  from  the  ravages  of  wild  beasts 
(Psa.  lxxx,  12),  it  was  customary  to  surround  them  with 
a wall  of  loose  stones  or  mud  (Matt,  xxi,  33;  Mark  xii, 
1),  which  was  a favorite  haunt  of  serpents  (Eccles.x,8), 
and  a retreat  for  locusts  from  the  cold  (Nali.  iii,  1 1 ). 
Such  walls  are  described  by  Maundrell  as  surrounding 
the  gardens  of  Damascus.  “ They  are  built  of  great 
pieces  of  earth,  made  in  the  fashion  of  brick  and  hard- 
ened in  the  sun.  In  their  dimensions  they  are  each 
two  yards  long  and  somewhat  more  than  one  broad,  and 
half  a yard  thick.  Two  rows  of  these,  placed  one  upon 
another,  make  a cheap,  expeditious,  and,  in  this  dry 
country,  a durable  wall”  {Early  Travels  in  Pul.  p.  48/ ). 
A wall  or  fence  of  this  kind  is  clearly  distinguished  in 
Isa.  v,  5 from  the  tangled  hedge,  2,  w,  mesukah' 
(nr*C"2,  Mic.  vii,  4),  which  was  planted  as  an  addition- 
al safeguard  to  the  vineyard  (comp.  Ecclus.  xxviii,  24), 
and  was  composed  of  the  thorny  shrubs  with  which 
Palestine  abounds.  The  prickly  pear,  a species  of  cac- 
tus, so  frequently  employed  for  this  purpose  in  the  East 
at  present,  is  believed  to  be  of  comparatively  modern  in- 
troduction. The  aptness  of  the  comparison  of  a tangled 
hedge  of  thorn  to  the  difficulties  which  a slothful  man 
conjures  up  as  an  excuse  for  his  inactivity  will  at  once 
be  recognised  (Prov.  xv,  19;  comp.  IIos.  ii,  6).  The 
narrow  paths  between  the  hedges  of  the  vineyards  and 
gardens,  “with  a fence  on  this  side  and  a fence  on  that 
side”  (Numb,  xxii,  24),  are  distinguished  from  the 
“ highways,”  or  more  frequented  tracks,  in  Luke  xiv,  23 
(Hackett.,  Illustra.  of  Scripture,  p.  166;  Trench,  On  the 
Parables,  p.  193).— Smith,  s.  v. 

Hedge,  Levi,  LL.D.,  a professor  in  Harvard  Uni- 
versity, was  born  in  1777  at  Hardwick,  Mass.  He  grad- 
uated at  Harvard  University  in  1792.  “ Ilis  whole  life, 
from  his  childhood,  may  be  said  to  have  been  connected 
with  the  University.  In  1795  he  was  appointed  tutor, 
and  subsequently  received  the  appointment  of  perma- 
nent tutor;  in  1810  he  was  made  college  professor  of 
logic  and  metaphysics;  and  in  1827  he  was  transferred 
to  the  Alford  professorship  of  natural  religion,  moral 
philosophy,  and  civil  polity.  In  1830  he  was  compelled 
by  an  attack  of  paralysis  to  resign  his  position.  He 
died  Jan.  3,  1844.  lie  is  remembered  by  many  pupils 
as  a faithful  instructor  and  kind  friend.”  He  published 
a “ System  of  Logic”  (1818, 18mo),  which  passed  through 
several  editions,  and  has  been  translated  into  German. 
He  was  the  father  of  Dr.  F.  II.  Hedge,  an  eminent  Uni- 
tarian minister. — Christian  Examiner,  xxxvi,  299. 

Hedio,  Gaspar  or  Caspar,  one  of  the  early  Ger- 
man Reformers,  was  born  at  Ettlingen,  Baden,  in  1494. 
He  studied  theology  at  Freiburg  and  Basle,  where  in 
1519  he  sustained,  in  presence  of  Capito,  the  theses  af- 
terwards printed  under  the  title  Conclusiones  ex  Evan- 
f/elica  Script ura  et  veteri  utriusque  liny uce  theologia  mu- 
tuatus  (lisp.  Caspar  Hedio  (1519,  fol.).  They  are  24  in 
number,  treating  on  the  attributes  of  God  and  predesti- 
nation, and  evince  a decided  tendency  towards  the  Ref- 
ormation. In  1520  he  began  to  correspond  with  Lu- 
ther and  Zwingle;  in  the  same  year  he  was  called  to 
Mentz  on  the  recommendation  of  Capito,  and  was  made 
conrt  preacher  and  vicar  to  the  archbishop.  He  resign- 
ed his  offices  in  1523,  and  retired  to  Strasburg.  The 
chapter  of  that  city  offered  him  the  pulpit  of  the  cathe- 
dral, but  the  bishop  refused  to  confirm  the  offer  until 
Hedio  had  promised  to  confine  himself  to  preaching  the 
Word  of  God.  His  preaching  was  very  popular,  because 
it  was  simple  and  Biblical.  He  was  naturally  timid, 
and  incapable  of  taking  a leading  part  in  the  religious 


movement  then  going  on;  but  his  sendees  as  coadjutor 
to  Bucer  and  Capito  in  consolidating  the  Reformation  in 
Strasburg  were  very  great.  In  1551  he  was  sent,  with 
Lenglin  and  Soli,  to  confer  with  the  German  theologians 
on  the  subject  of  the  Confession  of  Faith.  He  died  at 
Strasburg  Oct.  17, 1 552.  Among  his  writings  are  Chron- 
icon  Germanicum,  oiler  Beschr.  aller  ulten  christl.  Kirchen 
bis  aufs  Juhr  1545  (Strasb.1530,3  vols.fol.): — Smarag- 
di  abbot  is  Conmentarii  in  Evangel ia  et  Epistolas,  which 
he  translated  himself  into  German : — Chronicon  abbatis 
Urspergensis  correction,  et  Paralipomena  addita  ab  anno 
1230  ad  am.  1537,  translated  also  into  German  by  him- 
self : — Sentential  Ph.  Melanchthonis,  Mart.  Buceri,  Gasp. 
Hedionis  et  aliorum  de  pace  Ecclesice,  aim.  1534  (1G07, 
8vo).  Melchior  Adam  considers  him  also  as  the  trans- 
lator of  the  histories  of  Eusebius,  Hegesippus,  and  Jose- 
phus, and  other  works.  See  Melchior  Adam,  1 'itiE  Ger- 
manorum  Philosophorum  (Heidelberg,  1G  15-1020,4  vols. 
8vo),i,  11G;  Haag , La  France  Protest  ante;  Hoefer,  Xouv. 
Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  718.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Hedschra  or  Hedjra.  See  Hegira. 

Heduosmon.  See  Mint. 

Hedwig,  St.,  was  the  daughter  of  Agnes  and  Ber- 
tliold,  duke  of  Carinthia.  She  married  Henry,  duke  of 
Poland  and  Silesia,  by  whom  she  had  three  sons  and 
three  daughters.  They  afterwards  made  a vow  of  chas- 
tity, Henry  becoming  priest  and  subsequently  bishop, 
while  Hedwig  entered  a Cistercian  convent  near  Treb- 
nitz,  without,  however,  taking  the  veil.  She  died  there 
October  15,  1243,  and  was  buried  in  the  convent.  She 
was  canonized  by  pope  Clement  IV  in  1267  (or  12G8). 
She  is  commemorated  on  the  17th  of  October.  See  Ar- 
nand  d’Antlillv,  J7e  des  Saints  illustres ; Hoefer,  Xouv. 
Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  728. 

Heerbrand,  Jakob,  a Lutheran  theologian,  was 
born  at  Giengen  Aug.  12, 1521.  After  studying  at  Ulm 
and  Wittenberg,  he  was  ordained  at  Tubingen,  from 
whence  he  was  banished  for  objecting  to  the  Interim; 
but  he  was  soon  recalled,  and  made  pastor  of  llerren- 
berg.  In  1551,  dnke  Christopher  sent  him  as  one  of  the 
theological  delegates  to  the  Council  of  Trent.  Charles, 
prince  of  Baden,  employed  him  in  reforming  the  church- 
es in  his  dominions,  and  in  1560  he  was  chosen  professor 
of  divinity  at  Tubingen,  where  he  died  May  22,  1G00. 
Of  his  works,  which  are  numerous  both  in  German  and 
Latin,  the  principal  is  Compendium  Theologiie  (Tubin- 
gen, 1578,  fob,  often  reprinted),  a work  which  long  held 
its  place  as  a text-book.  The  negotiations  between  the 
Tubingen  theologians  of  that  time  and  the  patriarch  of 
Constantinople  caused  this  compend  to  be  translated 
into  Greek  (bv  M.  Crusius),  and  to  be  sent  to  Constanti- 
nople. The  Greek  traslation  was  published,  together 
with  the  original,  at  Wittenberg  in  1782.  His  oppo- 
nents used  to  call  him,  on  account  of  his  polemical  zeal, 
Hollbrand  (“hell-fire”).  See  Melchior  Adam,  17V.  The- 
ologorum,  i,  137 ; Hook,  Eccl.  Biography, xiA.  v. ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop.  v,  627. 

Heermann,  Joiianx,  a Silesian  Protestant  pastor 
and  hymn  writer,  was  born  at  Ranten,  Silesia,  Oct.  11, 
1585.  At  school  he  displayed  early  talent.  In  1611  he 
became  pastor  at  Koben.  During  the  Thirty  Years’ 
War  Silesia  was  the  seat  of  war  and  plunder,  and  Hcer- 
mann  was  often  obliged  to  conceal  himself  to  save  his 
life.  He  gave  up  his  pastoral  charge  at  Koben  in  1G38, 
and  died  Feb.  17,  1647,  In  the  height  of  his  troubles 
in  1630,  he  published  a volume  of  hymns  under  the  title 
Devoti  J Tusica  Cordis,  and  his  productions  afterwards 
were  very  numerous.  Heermann’s  hymns  are  “ distin- 
guished by  great  depth  and  tenderness  of  feeling,  by  an 
intense  love  of  the  Saviour,  and  by  humility,  while  in 
form  they  are  sweet  and  musical.”  Many  of  them  are 
still  in  use  in  Germany,  and  some  have  been  translated 
into  English.  Two  of  them — “A  Song  of  Tears”  and 
“A  Song  of  Comfort”  — together  with  several  hymns 
written  during  his  last  illness,  are  given  in  Winkworth, 
Christian  Singers  of  Germany,]).  197  sq,.  with  a sketch 


IIEGAI 


155  HEGEL 


of  the  life  of  Heermann.  Others  are  given  in  Miss 
"Wink worth,  Lyra  Germunica , and  in  Schaff,  Christ  in 
Song  (N.  York,  I860).  A selection  from  his  hymns,  in 
German,  may  be  found  in  Waekcmagel,  Herrmann's 
geistliche  Lieder  (Stuttgardt,  1 850).  Of  his  other  works 
we  mention  Uephdogus  Christi  (oil  the  seven  words  on 
the  cross),  Breslau,  1619;  new  edit.  Berlin,  1856. 

He'gai  (Ileb.  Hegay',  peril,  eunuch,  Esth.  ii,  8, 
15;  Sept.  Fat, Vulg.  Egeus)  or  He'ge  (Hcb.  id.  Kill, 
idem,  Esth.  ii,  3;  Sept,  omits,  Vulg.  Egeus),  the  eunuch 
having  charge  of  the  harem  of  Xerxes,  and  the  prepa- 
ration of  the  females  sought  as  concubines  for  him. 
B.C.  479.  Winer  (1  Vorterb.  s.  v.)  thinks  he  may  be  the 
same  with  Hegias  (Hyatt;),  who  is  mentioned  by  Cte- 
sias  ( Perseus , 24)  as  present  at  the  check  of  the  Persian 
array  at  Thermopylae. 

Hegel,  Georg  Wilhelm  Friedrich,  the  greatest 
of  modern  German  metaphysicians.  The  following 
sketch  of  his  life  is  modified  from  the  English  Cydopce- 
dia.  He  was  born  at  Stuttgardt  Aug.  27, 1770,  and  was 
educated  at  the  gymnasium  of  his  native  city.  From 
1788  to  1793  lie  studied  at  Tubingen,  where  lie  had  for 
liis  class-fellow  the  illustrious  Schelling;  and  where  he 
acquired  not  only  a knowledge  of  the  history  of  philoso- 
phy, but  also  a thorough  acquaintance  with  the  natu- 
ral and  political  sciences.  Upon  being  admitted  doctor 
in  philosophy,  lie  accepted  an  engagement  as  private 
tutor,  in  which  capacity  he  lived  for  some  years,  first  in 
Switzerland,  and  afterwards  at  Frankfort-on-the-Main, 
until,  on  the  death  of  his  father  in  1800,  he  was  enabled, 
by  the  inheritance  of  a small  patrimony,  to  devote  him- 
self to  the  study  of  philosophy.  lie  accordingly  pro- 
ceeded to  Jena,  where  Schelling  was  teaching  his  sys- 
tem of  “Absolute  Identity,”  of  which  Hegel  was  at  this 
period  one  of  the  warmest  partisans.  “Here  he  com- 
posed his  first  philosophical  work,  entitled  Ueber  die 
JJijJerenz  der  Eichte'schen  und  Schelling' schen  Philosophic 
(On  the  Difference  of  the  Systems  of  Fichte  and  Kcliel- 
ling) ; which  treatise,  notwithstanding  the  sincerity 
with  which  Hegel  then  advocated  the  views  of  the  lat- 
ter, contained  the’ germ  of  that  dissent  which  was  after- 
wards expanded  into  a peculiar  theory.  He  was  also 
associated  with  Schelling  in  conducting  the  Kritische 
Journal  der  Philosophic  (Critical  Journal  of  Science) ; 
and  among  the  most  important  of  the  .articles  contribu- 
ted by  him  is  that  “ On  Faith  and  Science,”  which  con- 
tains aluminous  review  of  the  doctrines  of  Kant,  Jacobi, 
and  Fichte,  whose  several  systems  are  represented  as 
nothing  more  than  so  many  forms  of  a purely  subjective 
philosophy.  In  1806,  when  Schelling  went  to  Wurz- 
burg, Hegel  was  appointed  to  supply  his  place  as  lectu- 
rer. Now  for  the  lirst  time  Hegel  openly  avowed  his 
dissatisfaction  with  the  system  of  Schelling.  The  dif- 
ference between  the  ideas  of  the  master  and  disciple  was 
marked  still  more  strongly  in  the  Phamomenologie  dcs 
Geistes  (Phenomenology  of  Mind),  which  was  published 
at  Bamberg,  whither  Hegel  had  retired  after  the  battle 
of  Jena.  This  work  lie  used  to  call  his  ‘Voyage  of 
Discovery,’  as  indicating  the  researches  he  had  passed 
through  in  order  to  arrive  at  a clear  knowledge  of  the 
truth.  It  contains  an  account  of  the  several  grades 
of  development  through  which  the  ‘self,’  or  ‘ego,’  pro- 
ceeds: first  of  all  from  consciousness  into  self-conscious- 
ness; next  into  reflective  and  active  reason,  from  which 
it  becomes  philosophical  reason,  self-cognizant  and  self- 
analyzing, until  at  last,  rising  to  the  notion  of  God,  it 
manifests  itself  in  a religious  form.  The  iitle  ‘Phe- 
nomenology’ points  out  the  limits  of  the  work,  which  is 
confined  to  the  phenomena  of  mind  as  displayed  in  the 
elements  of  its  immediate  existence,  that  is,  in  experi- 
ence. It  traces  the  course  of  mind  up  to  the  point 
where  it  recognises  the  identity  of  thought  and  sub- 
stance, of  reason  and  reality,  and  where  the  opposition  j 
of  science  and  reality  ceases.  Henceforward  mind  de- 
velops itself  as  pure  thought  or  simple  science,  and  the  j 
several  forms  it  successively  assumes,  which  differ  only 


in  their  subject-matter  or  contents,  are  the  objects  of 
logic,  or  ‘dialectic.’  In  1808  he  was  called  to  preside 
over  the  gymnasium  of  Niirnberg.  In  1812  he  pub- 
lished his  Logic  ( Wissenschaft  der  Logik),  which  was 
designed,  with  the  ‘Phenomenology,’  to  complete  the 
whole  body  of  science.  Hegel  employs  the  term  logic 
in  a very  extended  sense.  He  docs  not  coniine  it,  as  is 
usually  the  case,  to  the  account  of  the  abstract  forms  of 
thought  and  the  laws  of  connection  of  ideas,  but  imder- 
stands  by  it  the  science  of  the  self-sufficient  and  self- 
determining  idea— the  science  of  truth  and  of  reality. 
From  his  fundamental  principle  that  thought  and  sub- 
stance are  one  and  identical,  it  followed  that  whatever 
is  true  of  the  former  is  true  also  of  the  latter,  and  con- 
sequently the  laws  of  logic  become  ontological.  From 
this  point  of  view  Hegel  describes  in  this  work  the  prog- 
ress of  reason ; how,  by  virtue  of  a peculiar  and  inher- 
ent impulse,  it  passes  constantly  onwards,  until  at  last 
it  returns  into  itself.  The  general  merits  of  this  work 
were  at  once  admitted,  and  the  high  powers  of  philo- 
sophical reflection  which  it  evinced  were  acknowledged 
by  the  offer  of  a professorship  at  Heidelberg  in  1817. 
His  first  course  of  lectures  was  attended  by  a numerous 
and  distinguished  class,  attracted  by  the  profoundness 
and  originality  of  his  views,  notwithstanding  the  great 
obscurity  of  his  style.  By  the  publication  of  the  Ency- 
klopddie  der  philos.  Wissenschaften  (Encyclopedia  of 
Philosophical  Sciences)  in  1817,  his  reputation  as  a phi- 
losopher was  established,  and  Hegel  was  invited  by  the 
Prussian  government  to  fill  the  chair  at  Berlin,  which 
had  remained  vacant  since  the  death  of  Fichte  in  1814. 
This  work,  being  designed  as  a manual  for  his  class, 
takes  a general  view  of  his  whole  system,  and  exhibits 
in  the  clearest  manner  the  ultimate  tendency  of  his 
views.  Considering  logic  as  the  base  of  all  ontology, 
and  starting  from  the  idea  in  itself  or  potentially,  lie 
considers  it  as  the  essence  and  primary  substance.  He 
then  examines  thought  as  at  first  existing  in  itself,  then 
in  other  or  in  nature ; next  in  the  mind  of  the.  individ- 
ual, in  a purely  subjective  point  of  view ; and  then  ob- 
jectively, in  its  outward  realization;  and,  lastly,  as  he 
terms  it,  absolutely,  that  is,  as  manifesting  itself  in  art, 
religion,  and  philosophy.  From  1817  until  death  ter- 
minated his  career  there  is  nothing  to  relate  in  the  life 
of  Hegel  beyond  the  constantly  increasing  celebrity  of 
his  lectures  and  the  publication  of  several  works.  He 
successively  published  the  Philosophy  of  Jurisprudence, 
two  new  editions  of  the  Encyclopaedia,  the  first  volume 
of  the  second  edition  of  his  Logic,  and  several  articles  in 
the  A muds  of  Scientific  Criticism,  which  he  had  estab- 
lished as  an  organ  of  his  system,  and  of  its  application 
to  every  branch  of  art  and  science”  (Eng.  Cyclop.).  He 
died  Nov.  14, 1831,  of  cholera. 

Hegel’s  influence  upon  the  philosophy  and  theology 
of  Germany  has  been  very  great.  It  is  impossible,  in 
brief  space,  to  give  a full  idea  of  the  Hegelian  system. 
“ The  transcendental  idealism  of  Kant  formed  the  tran- 
sition from  the  empiricism  of  the  18th  century,  and  ef- 
fected, as  it  were,  a compromise  between  the  ancient 
realism  and  the  scepticism  of  Hume.  To  the  system  of 
Kant  succeeded  the  pure  and  absolute  idealism  of  Fichte, 
destined  to  be  displaced  in  its  turn  by  Sclielling’s  sys- 
tem of  absolute  identity  and  intellectual  intuition,  which 
was  itself  to  be  further  modified  and  developed  by  the 
dialectical  momentum  of  Hegel.  Essentially  the  systems 
of  Hegel  and  Schelling  are  both  founded  on  tlie  same 
principle,  namely,  the  absolute  ideality  of  thought  and 
being;  for  tliore.  is  evidently  but  little  difference  be- 
tween the  doctrine  of  Schelling,  which  supposed  that 
the  human  mind  contained  within  it  the  fulness  of  real- 
ity and  truth,  the  consciousness  of  which  it  may  attain 
to  simply  by  contemplating  its  own  nature,  and  that  of 
Hegel,  according  to  whom  the  concrete  notion,  or  the 
reason,  comprises  within  itself  all  verity,  and  that,  in  or- 
der to  arrive  at  the  science  thereof,  it  is  only  necessary 
to  employ  logical  thought,  or  dialectic.  The  difference 
is  purely  a difference  of  method.  For  the  rigorous  for- 


HEGEL 


156 


IIEGEL 


malism  of  Fichte,  Schelling  hail  substituted  a sort  of 
poetical  enthusiasm,  and,  banishing  from  philosophy  the 
scientific  form  it  had  received  from  Wolff,  had  intro- 
duced into  it  the  rapturous  mysticism  of  the  intellectual 
intuition.  Hegel,  however,  insisting  that  the  scientific 
system  is  the  only  form  under  which  truth  can  exist, 
re-established  the  rights  and  utility  of  method  by  his 
doctrine  of  the  dialectical  momentum,  or  develapment 
of  the  idea.  Indeed,  with  Hegel  the  method  of  philos- 
ophy is  philosophy  itself.  This  he  defines  to  be  the 
knowledge  of  the  evolution  of  the  concrete.  The  concrete 
is  the  idea,  which,  as  a unity,  is  diversely  determined, 
anil  has  in  itself  the  principle  of  its  activity.  The  or- 
igin of  the  activity,  the  action  itself,  and  the  result  are 
one,  and  constitute  the  concrete.  Its  movement  is  the 
development  by  which  that  which  exists  merely  poten- 
tially is  realized.  The  concrete  in  itself,  or  virtually, 
must  become  actual;  it  is  simple,  yet  different.  This 
inherent  contradiction  of  the  concrete  is  the  spring  of 
its  development.  Hence  arise  differences,  which,  how- 
ever, ultimately  vanish  into  unity.  There  is  both  move- 
ment, and  repose  in  the  movement.  The  difference 
scarcely  becomes  apparent  before  it  disappears,  where- 
upon there  issues  from  it  a full  and  concrete  unity.  Of 
this  he  gives  the  following  illustration:  the  flower,  not- 
withstanding its  many  qualities,  is  one ; no  single  qual- 
ity that  belongs  to  it  is  wanting  in  the  smallest  of  its 
leaves,  and  every  portion  of  the  leaf  possesses  the  same 
properties  as  the  entire  leaf.  He  then  observes  that 
although  this  union  of  qualities  in  sensible  objects  is 
readily  admitted,  it  is  denied  in  immaterial  objects,  and 
held  to  be  irreconcilable.  Thus  it  is  said  that  man  pos- 
sesses liberty,  but  that  freedom  and  necessity  are  mu- 
tually opposed;  that  the  one  excluding  the  other,  they 
can  never  be  united  so  as  to  become  concrete.  But,  ac- 
cording to  Hegel,  the  mind  is  in  reality  concrete,  and 
its  qualities  are  liberty  and  necessity.  It  is  by  neces- 
sity that  man  is  free,  and  it  is  only  in  necessity  that  he 
experiences  liberty.  The  objects  of  nature  are,  it  is 
true,  subject  exclusively  to  necessity;  but  liberty  with- 
out necessity  is  an  arbitrary  abstraction,  a purely  formal 
liberty”  {English  Cyclopaedia , s.  v.). 

Hegel  “rejected  the  intellectual  intuition  of  the  phi- 
losophy of  nature,  and  studied  to  make  philosophy  an 
intelligible  science  and  knowledge  by  means  of  dialec- 
tics. lie  called  philosophy  the  Science  of  Reason,  be- 
cause it  is  the  idea  and  consciousness  of  all  esse  in  its 
necessary  development.  It  is  his  principle  to  include 
all  particular  principles  in  it.  Now  as  the  Idea  is  rea- 
son identical  with  itself,  and  as,  in  order  to  be  cognizant 
of  itself,  or,  in  other  words,  as,  in  order  to  be  self-exist- 
ing {fur  sich  seyn),  it  places  itself  in  opposition  to  it- 
self, so  as  to  appear  something  else,  without,  however, 
ceasing  to  be  one  and  the  same  thing;  in  this  case  phi- 
losophy becomes  divided : 1.  Into  logic  considered  as  the 
science  of  the  Idea  in  and  for  itself.  2.  Into  the  philos- 
ophy of  nature  considered  as  the  science  of  the  Idea 
representing  itself  externally  (reason  thrown  out  in  na- 
ture). 5.  Its  third  division  is  that  of  the  philosophy  of 
mind,  expressing  the  return  of  the  Idea  within  itself, 
after  having  thrown  itself  without  externally.  All  log- 
ic, according  to  Hegel,  presents  three  momentums:  1. 
The  abstractor  intelligible  momentum,  which  seizes  the 
object  in  its  most  distinct  and  determinate  features,  and 
distinguishes  it  with  precision.  2.  The  dialectic  or 
negative  rational  momentum  consists  in  the  annihila- 
tion of  the  determinations  of  objects,  and  tlicir  transi- 
tion to  the  opposite  determinations.  3.  The  speculative 
momentum  perceives  the  unity  of  the  determinations  in 
their  opposition.  Such  is  the  method  which  philosophy 
ought  to  follow,  and  which  is  frequently  styled  by  He- 
gel the  immanent  movement,  the  spontaneous  develop- 
ment of  the  conception.  Logic  is  essentially  specida-  j 
tive  philosophy  because  it  considers  the  determinations 
of  thought  in  and  for  itself,  consequently  of  concrete  ] 
and  pure  thoughts,  or,  in  other  words,  the  conceptions,  j 
with  the  significations  of  the  self-subsisting  foundation  j 


I of  all.  The  primary  element  of  logic  consists  in  the 
oneness  of  the  subjective  and  objective;  this  oneness  is 
j the  absolute  science  to  which  the  mind  rises  as  to  its 
absolute  truth,  and  is  found  in  the  truth,  that  pure  Esse 
is  pure  conception  in  itself  and  that  pure  conception 
alone  is  true  Esse.  The  absolute  idealism  of  Hegel  has 
considerable  affinity  with  Sclielling’s  doctrine  of  Iden- 
tity on  this  point,  but  it  shows  a clear  departure  from  it 
in  the  method.  With  Hegel,  logic  usurps  the  place  of 
what  had  been  previously  styled  Metaphysics  and  Cri- 
tique of  pure  Reason.  The  first,  and  perhaps  the  most 
I suggestive,  of  Hegel's  works,  his  Phenomenology  of  the 
Mind,  contains  a history  of  the  progressive  development 
i of  the  consciousness.  Instinctive  or  common  knowledge 
only  regards  the  object,  without  considering  itself.  But 
the  consciousness  contains,  besides  the  former,  also  a 
perception  of  itself,  and  embraces,  according  to  Hegel, 
three  stages  in  its  progress  — consciousness,  self-con- 
. sciousness,  and  reason.  The  first  represents  the  object 
standing  in  opposition  to  the  Ego,  the  second  the  Ego 
itself,  and  the  third  accidents  attaching  to  the  Ego,  i.  e. 
thoughts.  This  phenomenology  constituted  at  first  a 
sort  of  introduction  to  pure  science,  whereas  later  it 
came  to  form  a part  of  his  doctrine  of  the  mind.  Pure 
science  or  logic  is  divided,  1st,  into  the  logic  of  Esse  or 
being  {das  Eeyri) ; 2d,  into  the  logic  of  qualified  nature 
{das  Wesen) ; 3d,  into  logic  of  the  conception  or  of  the 
idea.  The  two  first  constitute  the  objective  logic,  and 
the  last  division  the  subjective  logic,  containing  the 
substance  of  vulgar  logic.  Hegel  treated  as  fully  of  the 
philosophy  of  right  and  of  art  as  of  the  metaphysical 
part  of  his  system.  According  to  his  view,  the  essential 
in  man  is  thought;  but  thought  is  not  a general  ab- 
straction, opposed  to  the  particular  abstraction ; on  the 
j contrary,  it  embraces  the  particidar  within  itself  (con- 
crete generality).  Thought  does  not  remain  merely 
internal  and  subjective,  but  it  determines  and  reuders 
itself  objective  through  the  medium  of  the  will  (practi- 
cal mind).  To  will  and  to  know  are  two  inseparable 
things;  and  the  free-will  of  man  consists  in  the  faculty 
of  appropriating  and  of  rendering  the  objective  world 
his  own,  and  also  in  obeying  the  innate  laws  of  the  uni- 
verse, because  he  wills  it.  Hegel  places  the  existence 
of  right  in  the  fact  that  every  existence  in  general  is 
the  existence  of  a free-will.  Right  is  usually  confound- 
ed with  morality,  or  with  duty  placed  in  opposition  to 
inclination.  There  exists,  however,  a higher  morality 
raised  above  this,  which  bids  us  act  according  to  truly 
rational  ends,  and  which  ought  to  constitute  the  true 
nature  of  man.  We  find  the  objective  development  of 
this  higher  morality  in  the  State  and  in  history”  (Ten- 
nemann,  Manual  of  the  History  of  Philosophy,  § 424). 

Hegel’s  view  of  the  philosophy  of  religion  is  thus 
stated  by  Scliwcgler : “ All  religions  seek  a union  of  the 
divine  and  human.  This  was  done  in  the  crudest  form 
by  {a.)  the  natural  religions  of  the  Oriental  world.  God 
is,  with  them,  but  a power  of  nature,  a substance  of  na- 
ture, in  comparison  with  which  the  finite  and  the  indi- 
vidual disappear  as  nothing,  (&.)  A higher  idea  of  God 
is  attained  by  the  religions  of  spiritual  individuality,  in 
which  the  divine  is  looked  upon  as  subject — as  an  ex- 
alted subjectivity,  full  of  power  and  wisdom  in  Judaism, 
the  religion  of  sublimity;  as  a circle  of  plastic  divine 
forms  in  the  Grecian  religion, the  religion  of  beauty;  as 
an  absolute  end  of  the  State  in  the  Roman  religion,  the 
religion  of  the  understanding  or  of  design,  (c.)  The  re- 
vealed or  Christian  religion  first  establishes  a positive 
reconciliation  between  God  and  the  world  by  beholding 
the  actual  union  of  the  divine  and  the  human  in  the 
person  of  Christ,  the  God-man,  and  apprehending  God 
as  triune,  i.  e.  as  himself,  as  incarnate,  and  as  returning 
from  this  incarnation  to  himself.  The  intellectual  con- 
tent of  revealed  religion,  or  of  Christianity,  is  thus  the 
same  as  that  of  speculative  philosophy;  the  only  differ- 
ence being  that  in  the  one  case  the  content  is  repre- 
sented in  the  form  of  the  representation,  in  the  form  of 
a history,  while  in  the  other  it  appears  in  the  form  of 


HEGEL 


157 


HEGEL 


the  conception”  (Scliwegler,  Hist,  of  Philosophy,  transl. 
by  Seelve,  N.  Y.  18G4,  p.  364). 

If,  now,  after  having  acquired  a general  idea  of  He- 
gel’s philosophical  system,  we  ask  what  solution  that 
system  gives  to  the  questions  which  most  interest  hu- 
manity; what  becomes  in  it  of  a just  and  merciful  God, 
of  the  individuality  and  personality  of  man,  the  free 
agency  and  morality  of  his  acts,  his  hopes  of  another 
life,  of  a brighter  future,  we  shall  find  no  satisfactory  an- 
swer. The  system  claims  to  agree  completely  with  true 
Christianity,  vet  its  tendencies  seem  to  be  pantheistic 
and  anti-Christian.  Hegel  himself  constantly  asserts 
that  his  philosophical  system  is  in  no  way  contradictory 
to  the  Christian  religion,  and  only  differs  from  it  in  its 
forms  and  expressions.  Yet  in  his  system  the  absolute 
idea,  whose  evolution  constitutes  both  the  spiritual  and 
the  material  world,  becomes,  in  its  last  development,  the 
universal  mind,  the  absolute  and  infinite  subject ; and 
this  absolute  subject  is  put  in  the  place  of  God,  who 
therefore  can  have  no  self-conscious  existence  except  in 
finite  and  individual  subjects.  And  since  this  system 
has  no  substance  but  the  idea,  no  reality  but  the  devel- 
opment of  the  idea,  and  no  absolute  reality  except  the 
mind,  which  is  its  end,  it  follows  that  finite  and  individ- 
ual subjects  themselves  are  but  fleeting  forms  of  the  uni- 
versal mind,  which  is  their  substance.  What  becomes, 
then,  of  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  which  presupposes 
in  it  an  independent  substantiality,  a true  personality, 
an  undying  individuality?  And  if  the  universal  mind 
be  but  the  logical  sum  of  finite  minds,  without  other 
consciousness  than  what  it  finds  in  individuals,  it  follows 
that  pantheism  can  only  be  avoided  by  falling  into  athe- 
ism ; our  personality  can  only  be  saved  at  the  expense 
of  that  of  God  himself.  Hegel’s  moral  system  seems  to 
float  between  two  extremes,  each  as  dangerous  as  the 
other.  In  either  case  free  agency  and  morality  appear 
equally  endangered.  While  actually  destroying  all  dis- 
tinctions— which,  it  is  true,  he  considers  as  continually 
reproduced  by  universal  motion,  the  single  existing  ac- 
tuality— does  not  Hegel  at  the  same  time  obliterate  all 
distinction  between  good  and  evil,  and  destroy  one  of 
the  surest  pledges  of  a future  life  ? If  all  is  but  evolu- 
tion, the  evolution  of  a given  content,  then  all  is  virtual- 
ly determined ; and  freedom,  though  proclaimed  by  the 
very  essence  of  the  mind,  becomes  necessity,  in  finite  be- 
ings : all  that  they  consider  as  their  own  work,  the  ef- 
fect of  their  individual  action,  becomes  really  but  a part 
of  the  universal  work,  an  effect  of  the  eternal  activity 
of  the  general  and  absolute  mind. 

The  essence  of  Hegel’s  religious  philosophy  is  found 
in  the  doctrine  that  the  world,  including  nature  and  hu- 
manity, is  only  the  self-manifestation  of  God.  Such  a 
system,  presented  with  the  wonderful  dialectical  skill 
that  Hegel  possessed,  could  not  fail  to  exert  a great  ef- 
fect upon  the  theology  of  his  age.  Soon  after  he  com- 
menced the  publication  of  The  Journal  for  Scientifc 
Criticism  (1817),  the  Hegelian  philosophy  began  to  show 
its  power.  This  magazine  was  at  first  exclusively  de- 
voted to  the  external  propagation  of  Hegelianism,  and 
it  added  greatly,  during  Hegel’s  lifetime,  to  the  number 
of  proselytes.  Immediately  after  the  death  of  Hegel 
his  orthodox  followers  effected  the  publication  of  all  his 
works  (G.  W.  F.  Hegel's  IFerAv,  durch  einen  Verein  von 
Freunden  des  Yereu-igten , etc.,  Berlin,  1834-45,  18  vols. 
8vo).  Disputes  soon  arose  in  the  Hegelian  school  con- 
cerning the  Person  of  God,  the  Immortality  of  the  Sold, 
and  the  Person  of  Christ,  which  terminated  in  the  divi- 
sion of  the  school  into  two  camps.  Daumer,  Weisse, 
Gdscliel,  Rosen kranz,  Schaller,  and  others  (called  the 
right  wing),  attempted  to  connect  the  theistic  idea  of 
God  with  the  common  notion  of  the  divinity  contained 
in  the  Hegelian  philosophy,  and  to  prove  the  former 
from  the  latter;  whilst  Michelet,  Strauss,  and  others 
(the  left  wing),  maintained  that  the  pantheistic  idea  of 
God  was  the  only  true  result  of  the  Hegelian  principle, 
and  represented  God  as  the  universal  substance  or  the 
eternal  universe,  which  becomes  first  absolutely  con- 


scious of  itself  in  humanity.  Goschel,  Heinrichs,  Rosen- 
kranz,  Marheinecke,  and  others,  attempted,  besides,  to 
justify  the  ecclesiastical  idea  of  Christ,  as  specifically  the 
only  God-man,  on  philosophical  grounds,  whereas  Bau- 
er, Conradi,  Michelet,  Strauss,  and  others,  maintained 
that  the  unity  of  the  divinity  and  of  humanity  was  not 
realized  in  one  individual,  but  in  the  whole  of  human- 
ity, so  that  the  latter  in  reality  is  the  God-man.  Fi- 
nally, Strauss  and  Feuerbach  (the  extreme  left)  devel- 
oped Hegelianism  into  full-blown  atheism  and  infidel- 
itj'.  “ The  Hegelian  school  pretended  to  find  an  equiv- 
alent for  the  objects  of  Christian  faith  and  the  proposi- 
tions of  Christian  theology  in  the  dogmas  of  then-  sys- 
tem. The  latter  were  said  to  be  the  pure  and  final  ren- 
dering of  that  which  Christianity  presents  in  a popular 
form.  The  substantial  contents  of  both  were  averred  to 
be  identical.  The  Trinity,  the  Atonement,  and  the  oth- 
er doctrines  of  the  orthodox  creed  had  now — so  it  was 
claimed — received  a philosophical  vindication,  and  the 
vulgar  rationalism  which  had  flippant}}'  impugned  these 
high  mysteries  was  at  length  laid  low.  These  sound- 
ing pretensions  could  only  mislead  the  undi seeming.  A 
philosophy  which  denies  the  distinct  personality  of  God, 
and  consequently  must  regard  prayer  as  an  absurdity, 
can  by  no  legerdemain  be  identified  with  Christian  doc- 
trine. The  appearance  of  the  Life  of  Christ  by  Strauss, 
and  the  subsequent  productions  of  Baur  and  his  school, 

| through  the  applications  which  they  made  of  the  He- 
gelian tenets  to  the  New-Tcstament  history  and  the 
teaching  of  the  apostles,  placed  this  conclusion  beyond  a 
doubt”  (Fisher,  Essays  on  the  Supernatural,  p.  587). 

It  is  not  to  be  understood  that  Hegel’s  system  is  now 
universally  held  to  be  pantheistic  or  even  anti-Christian 
in  tendency.  An  analysis  and  translation  of  Hegel’s 
Phenomenology,  also  Outlines  of  his  Logic,  arc  given  in 
the  Journ.  of  Spec.  Philos,  vols.  i,ii,iii  (St.  Louis,  1868-9), 
by  the  editor,  W.  T.  Harris,  which  journal  demands  the 
careful  study  of  all  who  profess  to  judge  of  Hegelianism. 
The  points  made  in  the  Journal  are  also  summed  up  by 
a writer  in  the  Amer.  Quar.  Church  Review,  Oct.  1869, 
who  maintains  not  only  that  Hegel’s  system  is  not  pan- 
theistic, but  that  it  is  the  widest  and  deepest  system  of 
thought  yet  offered  to  mankind,  and  that,  too,  in  full 
harmony  with  Christianity.  We  cite  from  this  article 
the  following  passages:  “To  help  us  to  the  highest  edu- 
cation of  our  reason  is  the  aim  of  Hegel,  and  this  help 
is  the  inestimable  gift  he  offers  to  all  who  will  under- 
stand him.  To  him  philosophy  is  not  philosophy  unless 
it  ‘stands  up  for  all  those  great  religious  interests  to 
which  alone  we  virtually  live.’  Every  step  of  his  sys- 
tem is  towards  the  deep  truths  of  the  faith ; but  these 
things  are  not  mere  dogmas  with  Hegel;  they  appear  as 
the  logical  results  of  the  most  logical  of  systems”  ( Jour- 
nal of  Speculative  Philosophy,  i,  256).  “ In  the  Christian 
religion,” says  Hegel, “God has  revealed  himself, that  is, 
he  has  given  us  to  imderstand  what  he  is;  and  the  pos- 
sibility of  knowing  him  thus  afforded  us  renders  such 
knowledge  a duty.  God  wishes  no  narrow-hearted  souls 
or  empty  heads  for  his  children,  but  those  whose  spirit  is 
of  itself,  indeed,  poor,  but  rich  in  the  knowledge  of  him, 
and  who  regard  this  knowledge  as  their  only  valuable 
possession”  (Amer.  Ch.  Rev.  Oct.  1869,  p.  415).  “ They 
who  regard  God  as  negative  unity,  and  the  creature  not 
as  self-determining,  these  are  pantheists.  With  such  a 
God  we  should  only  seem  to  be;  we  should  only  be 
‘modes’  of  that  ‘substance.’  But  man, being  a self-de- 
termining creature,  is  his  own  negative  unity,  and  hence 
his  immortality.  ‘ He  cannot  be  a mere  phase  of  a high- 
er being,  for  he  is  essentially  a reflection  of  that.’  We 
are  made  in  God’s  image,  and  in  him  spiritually  we  see 
ourselves : who  does  not  see,  then,  that  the  highest 
thought  in  Hegel’s  philosophy  is  only  an  elucidation  of 
the  central  dogma  of  the  Christian  faith.  God  is  this 
ideal  unity,  and  each  person  of  the  Holy  Trinity  is  that 
one  God  in  his  entirety.  To  sum  up  briefly  the  points 
of  this  comparison : We  have  found  that  Hegel’s  doc- 
trine of  Being  is  the  direct  converse  of  the  pantheistic 


IIEGESIPPUS 


158 


HEGIRA 


theory;  fur  whereas  the  latter  considers  pure  Being  iden- 
tical with  the  All,  Hegel  regards  it  as  equivalent  to  non- 
entity. Secondly,  pantheism  has  always  held  fast  to 
the  abstractions  of  the  understanding,  and  hence  it  has 
attacked  all  forms  of  Becoming;  but  Hegel’s  invincible 
dialectic  has  demolished  this  strong  position,  and  led  us 
up  to  the  higher  ground  of  the  concrete  notion.  Third- 
ly, the  pantheistic  view  of  the  Negative  is  abstract. 
‘ Being  alone  is,  and  non-being  is  not.’  But  with  He- 
gel the  ultimate  form  of  the  negative  is  immanent  con- 
tradiction; the  negative  is  not  a for  itself,  but  out  of  it 
is  constituted  the  true  positive.  (This  leads  to  the  view 
of  the  Universal  as  the  only  real,  independent  individ- 
ual, the  I Am  that  I Am.)  Fourthly,  the  true  panthe- 
ists held  Distinction  to  be  impossible,  while  the  theory 
of  the  materialistic  pantheists  was  Atomism,  the  ab- 
stract and  separate  validity  of  Identity  and  Distinction ; 
but  Hegel  leaves  both  theories  far  behiud  him  when  he 
penetrates  to  the  inmost  depths  of  the  subject,  and  ar- 
rives at  Self-determination  as  the  origin  and  principle 
of  all  distinction  whatever.  (This,  again,  leads  to  the 
self-determination  of  the  Absolute— the  spirituality  of 
God.)  Fifthly,  the  unity  of  pantheism  is  a ‘ negative 
unity,’  which  annuls  the  independence  of  multiple  fac- 
tors; but  with  Hegel  the  true  unity,  the  unity  of  the 
Absolute,  is  purely  affirmative,  subsisting  through  the 
very  independence  of  its  members.  (And  here  we  reach 
a development  of  the  great  Christian  idea  of  the  Trin- 
ity/) Here  is  not  pantheism  taking  a new  dress,  but 
pantheism  receiving  a flat  contradiction  upon  its  cardi- 
nal principles”  (ibid.  p.  403-4). 

Literature. — For  an  able  article  on  Hegel’s  philoso- 
phy, and  its  influence  on  religion  and  theology  in  Ger- 
many, see  Ulrici,  in  Herzog,  Real-Enryldupadie , v,  629- 
C46.  See  also,  besides  the  works  cited  above,  Kahnis, 
History  of  German  Protestantism,  p.  196,  244;  Saintes, 
History  of  Rationalism , chap,  xiii,  xviii;  Schaff,  A pos- 
tolic  Church,  § 34;  Princeton  Review,  Oct.  1848,  art.  iv; 
Morel],  History  of  M odern  Philosophy,  chap.  v. ; Bib- 
liotheca Sacra,  viii,  503;  Vera , Introduction  a la  Philo- 
sophic de  Hegel  (Paris,  1855);  Haym,  Ileyel  und  seine  Zeit 
(Berlin,  1858);  Chalybams,  History  of  Philosophy  from 
Kant  to  Hegel;  Sibree,  translation  of  Hegel's  Philosophy 
of  History  (London,  Bohn) ; Sloman  and  Wallon,  trans- 
lation of  Hegel’s  Subjective  Logic  (Lond.  1855);  Lewes, 
History  of  Philosophy  (4th  edit.  Loud.  1871, 2 vols.  8vo), 
ii,  531  sq.;  Stirling,  Secret  of  Ifcgel,  giving  a translation 
of  portions  of  Hegel’s  Logic  (London,  1865,  2 vols.  8vo) ; 
Saisset,  Modern  Pantheism,  ii,  1 1 sq. ; Boscncranz,  Hegel 
als  deutscher  Xa turalph ilosoph  (Leipz.  1870). 

Hegesippus,  one  of  the  earliest  writers  on  Church 
History  (between  A.D.  150  and  180),  was  originally  a 
Jew,  born  near  the  beginning  of  the  2d  century.  He 
was  converted  to  the  Christian  faith,  and  came  to  Rome 
about  A.D.  168,  where  he  died,  according  to  the  Alexan- 
drine Chronicle,  in  the  reign  of  Commodus,  about  A.D. 
180.  He  wrote  a collection  of  'YTropvijpara,  or  Memo- 
rials of  the  History  of  the  Church,  in  live  books,  from 
the  birth  of  our  Lord  to  the  time  of  Eleutherus,  bishop 
of  Rome,  who  succeeded  Anicetns  in  A.D.  170.  This 
work  is  all  lost  except  a few  fragments  preserved  by 
Eusebius,  and  one  in  the  Bibliotheca  of  Photius.  Sev- 
eral extracts  may  be  found  translated  by  Lardner  (Cred- 
ibility, vol.  ii).  All  that  remains  of  Hegesippus  is  given 
by  Routh  ( Reliqnice  Saerce,  2d  edit,  i,  205  sq.),  and  also 
by  Grabe  (Spicileginm,  ii,  203  sq.)  and  by  Galland  (Bill. 
Patr.  ii,  59).  “ The  reports  of  Hegesippus  on  the  char- 

acter and  martyrdom  of  St.  James  the  Just,  Simeon  of 
Jerusalem,  the  rise  of  heresies,  the  episcopal  succession, 
and  the  preservation  of  the  orthodox  doctrine  in  Cor- 
inth and  Rome,  as  embodied  in  the  history  of  Eusebius, 
command  attention  for  their  antiquity;  but,  as  they 
show  that  his  object  was  apologetic  and  polemical  rath- 
er than  historical,  and  as  they  bear  a somewhat  Juda- 
izing  (though  by  no  means  Ebionistic)  coloring,  they 
must  be  received  with  critical  attention”  (Schaff,  Church 
History,  vol.  i,  § 123).  The  Socinians  of  the  17th  cen- 


tury use  his  brief  statements  as  proof  of  the  general 
spread  of  Judaizing  tendencies  in  the  1st  and  2d  centu- 
ries, and  Bain,  of  Tubingen,  and  his  school,  have  recent- 
ly reproduced  this  view.  Bishop  Bull  answered  the 
former,  and  Dorner,  in  his  Lehre  v.  d.  Person  Christi,  i, 
219  (Edinburgh  trans.  i,  139  sq.),  has  refuted  the  latter. 
“The  evidence  tends  to  prove  that  he  ivas  not  even  a 
Hebrew  Christian  in  the  sense  of  observing  the  law,  and 
there  is  the  most  complete  proof  that  he  did  not  regard 
the  observance  of  the  law  as  essential  to  salvation. 
With  the  destruction  of  this  premise,  the  keystone  of 
the  two  theories  of  the  early  Unitarians  and  of  Baur 
is  utterly  destroyed.  The  Unitarians  maintained  that 
Hegesippus  was  an  Ebionitc  or  Nazarene,  and  that  con- 
sequently the  whole  Church  was  in  his  day  Ebionitic, 
though,  unfortunately,  the  few  Platonizing  writers,  who 
formed  a miserable  exception  to  the  mass,  have  been  the 
only  -writers  that  a subsequent  corrupt  age  has  preserved 
to  us.  Baur  finds  in  Hegesippus  a most  determined  an- 
tagonist of  Paul,  and  his  testimony  is  appealed  to  as 
proof  that  the  Petrine  faction  had  gained  the  predomi- 
nance not  only  in  the  churches  of  the  East,  but  even  in 
those  of  the  West.  Both  theories  run  directly  contrary 
to  the  repeated  testimony  of  Eusebius,  and  to  all  the 
information  which  vTe  have  in  regard  to  the  Western 
churches,  and  they  both  fall  to  pieces  unless  it  be  proved 
that  Hegesippus  insisted  upon  the  observance  of  the 
law  as  essential  to  salvation”  (Donaldson,  History  of 
Christian  Literature,  iii,  188  sq.).  See  also  Clarke,  Suc- 
cession of  Sacred  Literature ; Ncander,  Church  History, 
i,  G75,  C76;  Lardner,  Works,  vol.  ii;  Cave,  Hist.  Lit.  i, 
265;  Fabricius,  Bibl.  Graca,  vii,  156;  Dupin,  Eccles. 
Writers,  cent,  ii;  Illgen,  Zeitschrif,  1865,  pt.  iii. 

Hegira,  an  Arabic  word  signifying///^!1  ( Hedshra ), 
now  used  to  designate  the  epoch  from  which  the  Mo- 
hammedans compute  time.  The  flight  of  Mohammed 
from  Mecca  to  Medina  is  fixed  by  the  Mohammedans  on 
July  15,  A.D.  622.  The  process  of  converting  the  years 
of  the  Hegira  into  the  date  after  the  birth  of  Christ  is 
as  follows.  Divide  the  given  number  by  thirty  (the 
quotient  expresses  the  intercalary  cycles  elapsed  since 
the  Hegira,  the  remainder  represents  the  number  of 
years  elapsed  in  the  current  intercalary  cycle) ; multiply 
the  quotient  by  10,631  (the  number  of  days  contained 
in  an  intercalary  cycle),  adding  to  the  product  the  sum 
of  the  days  contained  in  the  elapsed  years  of  the  current 
cycle,  the  days  of  the  elapsed  current  months  of  the 
current  year  up  to  the  time  of  reckoning,  and  to  the  re- 
sult add  again  227,015  (the  number  of  days  elapsed  be- 
tween Jan.  1 of  the  year  1,  and  July  15,  622,  the  date 
of  the  Hegira).  The  sum  of  days  thus  obtained  is  most 
readily  converted  into  Julian  years  by  dividing  it  by 
1461  (the  number  of  days  in  a Julian  intercalaiy  period), 
then  multiplying  the  quotient  by  four,  and  adding  to  the 
product  the  number  of  whole  years  contained  in  the  re- 
mainder of  the  division,  which  is  obtained  by  dividing 
this  remainder  by  365.  The  number  of  days  still  re- 
maining shows  the  day  of  the  month  in  the  current  Ju- 
lian year.  Or  else  the  following  proportion  may  be 
made  use  of  (T  representing  any  date  in  the  Turkish 
calendar,  and  C the  corresponding  date  in  the  Julian  cal- 
endar): C = 0.970203  T + 621.567785,  and  T- 1.030712  C 
— 64.65745.  If  the  date  is  subsequent  to  the  Gregorian 
reform  in  the  calendar,  wdiich  can  only  be  the  case  for 
modem  times,  then  the  Turkish  date  must  first  be  con- 
verted into  the  Julian,  wdiich  is  then  altered  to  the  Gre- 
gorian by  adding  ten  days  to  it  for  the  period  extending 
from  Oct.  5,  1582,  to  the  end  of  February,  1700;  eleven 
days  after  the  latter  until  the  end  of  F ebrnary,  1800,  and 
twelve  days  for  all  subsequent  dates.  In  making  this 
reduction,  the  difference  between  the  time  at  winch  the 
day  begins  in  the  Turkish  and  in  the  Christian  calen- 
dar mu§t  be  taken  into  consideration  whenever  the  time 
of  day  of  the  event  calculated  is  known,  as  it  may  make 
a difference  in  the  date  of  one  day  more  or  less.  The 
Turkish  year  begins  at  the  end  of  July.  The  year  1859 
A.C.  is  in  their  calendar  1275-76.  A simpler  mode  of 


HEGIUS 


159  HEIDELBERG  CATECHISM 


reduction,  but  not  strictly  accurate,  is  as  follows : The 
Mohammedan  year =a  lunar  year  of 354  days,  and  there- 
fore 33  Mohammedan  years =32  Christian.  To  reduce 
years  of  the  Hegira,  therefore,  to  years  of  the  Christian 
ajra,  subtract  one  from  every  thirty-three  years,  and  add 
622.  Thus  A.D.  1861  = 1277  of  the  Hegira.  — Pierer, 
Universal  Lexikon,  viii,  721. 

Hegius,  Alexander  (the  name,  according  to  some 
accounts,  being  Latinized  from  the  name  of  his  native 
village,  Heck),  a German  humanist  of  the  loth  century, 
was  born  within  the  diocese  of  Munster  about  1433  or 
1455  (the  exact  date  is  undetermined),  and  died  at  De- 
venter, Holland,  in  the  latter  part  of  1498.  He  claims 
notice  here  because  of  his  influence  in  reviving  classical 
learning,  especially  by  means  of  the  celebrated  college 
which  he  established  at  Deventer.  This  school  is  named 
by  Ilallam  {Lit.  of  Europe,  i,  109,  Harpers’  ed.)  as  one 
of  the  three  schools  thus  early  established  in  Western 
Europe,  outside  of  Italy,  for  instruction  in  the  classic  lan- 
guages, “from  which  issued  the  most  conspicuous  orna- 
ments of  the  next  generation.”  Hegius  is  said  to  have 
been  a friend  of  Rudolph  Agricola,  and  to  have  himself 
received  infraction  in  classical  literature  from  Thomas  a 
Kempis.  Among  his  pupils  may  be  named  Erasmus, 
Hermann  von  deni  Busehe,  Murmellius,  and  others, 
whose  labors  and  success  hi  literature  add  lustre  to  their 
teacher’s  fame.  Hegius’s  writings  were  but  few,  and 
those  mainly  in  the  form  of  poetry  and  brief  grammat- 
ical and  philosophical  treatises;  one  of  a theological 
type  is  found  in  a miscellaneous  collection  of  writings  by 
him,  published  at  Deventer,  1530,  4to,  and  entitled  De 
Incarnationis  Mysterio  Dialogi  duo , qnibus  additum  de 
Pascfue  et  Celebratione  et  invent  ione.  Ilallam  {l.  c.  note) 
attributes  to  him  “a  small  4to  tract  entitled  Conjuga- 
tiones  Verborum  Greecie , Daventnie  Koviter  extremo  la- 
bore  collects  et  impresss,"  without  date  or  printer’s  name, 
and  which  he  regards  as  the  first  book  printed  this  side 
of  the  Alps  in  Greek. — Ilerzog,  Real-Encyklop.  xix,  GIG ; 
Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generale,  xxiii,  7G3.  (J.  W.  M.) 

He- Goat  (prop.  attud',  so  called  as  being 

adult ; also  “iTI£,  tsaphir',  so  called  from  leaping,  2 
Chron.  xxix,  21 ; Ezra  viii,  35 ; Dan.  viii,  5,  8 [Ezra  vi, 
17]  ; TT?ri,  ta'yish,  a buck,  Gen.  xxx,  35;  xxxii,  14;  2 
Chron.  xvii,  11 ; Prov.  xxx,  31).  See  Goat. 

Heidanus,  Abraham,  professor  of  theology  at  Ley- 
den, was  born  at  Fraukentlial,  in  the  Palatinate,  Aug. 
10, 1597.  He  was  educated  at  Amsterdam  and  Leyden, 
and  in  1G27  was  appointed  to  a pastoral  charge  in  the 
latter  city.  In  1G47  he  became  professor  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Leyden.  Heidanus  held  a mild  view  of  the 
doctrine  of  predestination,  and  adopted  the  Cartesian 
philosophy,  of  which  he  became  a strong  advocate.  This 
involved  him  in  various  controversies,  in  which  he  bore 
himself  admirably.  Yet,  when  nearly  eighty  years  old, 
he  was  dismissed  from  his  professorship  by  the  curators 
of  the  University.  He  died  at  Leyden  Oct.  15,  1G78. 
His  Corpus  Theologue,  Christiana?,  was  posthumously 
published  (1G86, 2 vols.  4to). — Bayle,  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Heidegger,  Johann  Heinrich,  D.D.,  a Swiss  Prot- 
estant theologian,  was  born  near  Zurich  July  1,  1G33. 
He  studied  at  Marburg  and  Heidelberg,  where  he  gradu- 
ated, and  soon  after  became  extraordinary  professor  of 
Hebrew,  and  then  professor  of  theology.  In  1G59  he 
went  to  Steinfurt  as  professor  of  tl.eologv  and  ecclesias- 
tical history.  War  having  dispersed  the  students  of 
Steinfurt,  Heidegger  returned  to  Zurich  in  1G65,  and  was 
professor  of  moral  philosophy  in  the  University  of  the 
city  until  1GG7.  He  died  at  Zurieh  Jan.  18, 1G98.  He 
was  the  compiler  of  the  famous  Formula  Consensus, 
adopted  by  the  Synod  of  Zurich  in  1G75.  See  Helvet- 
ic Confessions.  His  writings  are  chiefly  polemical; 
the  most  important  are  Disputatio  theologica  de  fine 
mnndi  (Steinfurt,  16G0,4to)  : — Defide  decretorum  Concilii 
Tridentini  Qucestiones  theologica  (Steinfurt,  lGG2,8vo) : — 
De  A rticulis  fundamentalibus  Judaics  Religionis  (Stein- 
furt, 1G64, 4to)  : — De  Hist,  sacra  Patriarcharum  (Amst. 


16G7-1G71, 2 vols.  4to ; Zurich,  1729,  2 vols.  4to) : — A na- 
tome  Concilii  Tridentini  (Zurich,  1672,2  vols.  8vo):— . 
Dissertationes  select  a?  sacrum  theologiam  dogma  ticam. 
etc.  Must.  (Zur.  1675-1690,  4 vols.  4to) : — Enchirid.  Eib- 
licum  succinctius  (Zurich,  1681,  8vo;  Amst.  1688,  8 vo; 
Jena,  1723,  8yo) : — llistor.  Papatus,  novissimo  llistoriie 
Lutheranismi  et  Calvinismi  Fabro  opposita  (Amst.  1684, 
4to ; 2d  ed.  1698, 4to ; French, Amst.  1685, 2 vols.  12mo) : 
— Mysterium  Babylonis,  seu  in  Diri  Johannis  theologi 
Apocalypseos  jirophetiam  de  Babylone  mugnu  diatribe 
(Leyden,  1687,  2 vols.  4to) : — In  viam  Concur  due  ecclesi- 
astics Protest antium  Manuductio  (Amst.  1687, 8vo): — 
Tumulus  Concilii  Tridentini,  etc.  (Zurich,  1G90,  2 vols. 
4to) : — Labores  exegetici  in  Josuam,  Matthsum,  Roma- 
nos, Corinthios  et  ilebreeos  (Zurich,  1700, 4to)  : — Corpus 
Theologue  christ.  (Zurich,  1700,  fol.): — Medulla  Medul- 
he  Theol.  christ.  in  gratiam  et  usum  tyronum,  etc.  His 
autobiography  was  published  by  Ilofmeister  under  the 
title  Ilist. Fits  J.  II.  Ileuleggeri,  cut  nonjmuca  historiam 
Ecclesice  temporis  ejusdem,  nec  non  litteras  concernantia, 
inseruntur  (Zurich,  1698, 4 to). — Nieeron ,Memoires  pour 
serrir,  xvii,  143 ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generale,  xxiii,  766 
sq.;  Sehweizer,  in  Herzog , Real-Encyk/opadie,  v,  652. 

Heidelberg  Catechism,  one  of  the  symbolical 
books  of  the  Reformed  Church.  Its  name  is  derived 
from  the  city  in  which  it  was  compiled  and  first  printed. 
It  is  also  sometimes  styled  the  Palatinate  Catechism, 
from  the  territory  (the  Palatinate)  of  the  prince  (Fred- 
j eriek  III)  under  whose  auspices  it  was  prepared.  The 
| original  German  title  (of  the  editio  princeps)  is  Cate- 
cliismus,  oder  Christlicher  Underricht,  vie  der  in  Kirchen 
und  Schulen  der  Churfur  si  lichen  Pfalz  getrieben  vrirdt. 
Gedruckt  in  der  Churfnrstlichen  Stud  Heydelberg,  durch 
Johannem  Mayer,  1563  (Catechism,  or  Christian  In- 
struction, according  to  the  Usages  of  the  Churches  and 
Schools  of  the  Electoral  Palatinate). 

I.  History.  — Soon  after  the  introduction  of  Protes- 
tantism into  the  Palatinate  in  1546,  the  controversy  be- 
tween Lutherans  and  Calvinists  broke  out,  and  for  years, 
especially  under  the  elector  Otto  Heinrich  (155G-59),  it 
raged  with  great  violence  in  Heidelberg.  Frederick 
III,  who  came  into  power  in  1559,  adopted  the  Calvinis- 
tie  view  on  the  Lord’s  Supper,  and  favored  that  side 
with  all  his  princely  power,  lie  reorganized  the  Sa- 
pienz  College  (founded  by  his  predecessor)  as  a theo- 
logical school,  and  put  at  its  head  (15G2)  Zacliarias  Ur- 
sinus,  a pupil  and  friend  of  Melancthon,  who  had  adopted 
the  Reformed  opinions.  See  Ursinus.  In  order  to  put 
an  end  to  religious  disputes  in  his  dominions,  he  deter- 
mined to  put  forth  a Catechism,  or  Confession  of  Faith, 
and  laid  the  duty  of  preparing  it  upon  Zacliarias  Ur- 
sinus (just  named)  and  Caspar  Olevianus,  for  a time 
professor  in  the  University  of  Heidelberg,  then  court- 
preacher  to  Frederick  III.  They  made  use,  of  course, 
of  the  existing  catechetical  literature,  especially  of  the 
catechisms  of  Calvin  and  of  John  a Lasco.  Each  pre- 
pared sketches  or  drafts,  and  “the  final  preparation  was 
the  work  of  both  theologians,  with  the  constant  co-op- 
eration of  Frederick  111.  Ursinus  has  always  been  re- 
garded as  the  principal  author,  as  he  was  afterwards  the 
chief  defender  and  interpreter  of  the  Catechism;  still,  it 
would  appear  that  the  nervous  German  style,  the  divi- 
sion into  three  parts  (as  distinguished  from  the  five 
parts  in  the  Catechism  of  Calvin  and  the  previous  draft 
of  Ursinus),  and  the  genial  warmth  and  unction  of  the 
whole  work,  are  chiefly  due  to  Oleviauus”  (Schaff,  in 
Am.  Presb.  Rev.  July,  1863,  p.  o<  9). 

When  the  Catechism  was  completed,  Frederick  laid 
it  before  a synod  of  the  superintendents  of  the.  Palati- 
nate (December,  1562).  After  careful  examination  it 
was  approved.  The  first  edition,  whose  lull  title  is 
given  above,  appeared  in  1563.  The  preface  is  dated 
January  19  of  that  year,  and  runs  in  the  name  of  the 
elector  Frederick,  who  probably  wrote  it.  A Latin  ver- 
sion appeared  in  the  same  year,  translated  by  Johannes 
Lagus  and  Lambertus  Pithopasus.  The  German  version 
is  the  authentic  standard.  Two  other  editions  of  the 


HEIDELBE11G  CATECHISM  160  HEIDELBERG  CATECHISM 


German  version  appeared  in  1563.  What  is  now  the 
eightieth  question  ( What  difference  is  there  between  the 
Lord's  Supper  and  the  Roman  Mass  f)  is  not  to  be  found 
m the  first  edition  ; part  of  it  appears  in  the  second  edi- 
tion; and  in  the  third,  of  1563,  it  is  given  in  full  as  fol- 
lows : “ What  difference  is  there  between  the  Lord’s 
Supper  and  the  Popish  Mass?  The  Lord’s  Supper  tes- 
tifies to  its  that  we  have  full  forgiveness  of  all  our  sins 
bv  the  one  sacrifice  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  he  himself 
has  once  accomplished  on  the  cross;  and  that  by  the 
Holy  Ghost  we  are  ingrafted  into  Christ,  who  with  his 
true  body  is  now  in  heaven  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Fa- 
ther, and  is  to  be  there  worshipped.  But  the  Mass 
teaches  that  the  living  and  the  dead  have  not  forgive- 
ness of  sins  through  the  sufferings  of  Christ,  unless 
Christ  is  still  daily  offered  for  them  by  the  priest;  and 
that  Christ  is  bodily  under  the  form  of  bread  and  wine, 
and  is  therefore  to  be  worshipped  in  them.  (And  thus 
the  Mass  at  bottom  is  nothing  else  than  a denial  of  the 
one  sacrifice  and  passion  of  Christ,  and  an  accursed  idol- 
atry.)” The  occasion  for  the  introduction  of  this  eigh- 
tieth question  appears  to  have  been  the  decree  of  the 
Council  of  Trent  “ touching  the  sacrifice  of  the  Mass,” 
Sept.  17,  1562.  This  declaration,  and  the  anathemas 
pronounced  at.  Trent  against  the  Protestant  doctrine  of 
the  sacraments,  had  not  time  to  produce  their  effect  be- 
fore the  issue  of  the  first  edition  of  the  Catechism.  But 
the  elector  soon  saw  the  necessity  for  a strong  and  clear 
declaration  on  the  Protestant  side,  and  such  a declara- 
tion is  furnished  in  this  eightieth  question,  which  was  | 
added  to  the  Catechism  in  1563.  The  first  edition  of  | 
1563  was  for  a long  time  lost;  that  given  by  Niemeyer 
( Collectio  Confessionum,  p.  390)  is  the  third  of  that  year.  I 
But  in  1864  pastor  Wolters  found  a copy  and  reprinted  ‘ 
it,  with  a history  of  the  text  (Der  Heidelb.  Kateckismus  j 
in  seiner  ur sprit  nglichen  Gestalt , Bonn,  1864,  sm.  8vo), 
which  cleared  up  all  doubt  as  to  the  various  editions  of 
1563.  In  1866  professor  Schaff  published  a very  valua- 
ble edition,  revised  after  the  first  edition  of  1563,  with 
an  excellent  history  of  the  Catechism  (Der  Heidelb.  Kat. 
park  d.  ersten  A usgabe  von  1563  revidirt,  Philad.  18mo). 
C);her  editions  appeared  in  1571  and  1573,  and  in  this 
last  the  questions  are  divided,  as  now,  into  lessons  for 
fifty-two  Sundays,  and  the  questions  are  numbered.  An 
abstract  of  the  Catechism  appeared  in  1585.  The  larger 
Catechism  has  since  been  republished  by  millions;  no 
book,  perhaps,  has  gone  through  more  editions,  except 
the  Bible,  Bunyan’s  Pilgrim , anil  Ivempis.  It  has  been 
translated  into  nearly  every  spoken  language.  It  was, 
of  course,  at  once  used  throughout  the  Palatinate  bv 
eommand  of  the  elector.  But  it  soon  spread  abroad 
wherever  the  Reformed  Church  had  found  footing,  es- 
pecially in  North  Germany  and  parts  of  Switzerland. 
It  was  early  received  in  the  Netherlands,  and  formally 
adopted  at  the*Synod  of  Dort,  1618.  Long  and  bitter 
controversies  with  Roman  Catholics  and  Lutherans  on  1 
the  Catechism  only  endeared  it  the  more  to  the  Reform- 
ed. It  is  to  this  day  an  authoritative  confession  for  the 
Reformed  churches  (German  and  Dutch).  The  (Dutch) 
Reformed  Church  directs  all  her  ministers  to  explain 
the  Catechism  regularly  before  the  congregations  on  the 
Sabbath  day. 

II.  Contents.  — The  Catechism,  in  its  present  form, 
consists  of  129  questions  and  answers.  It  is  divided 
into  three  parts : 1.  Of  the  misery  of  man.  2.  Of  the 
redemption  of  man.  3.  ( )f  the  gratitude  due  from  man 
(duties,  etc.).  The  arrangement  of  the  matter  is  ad- 
mirable, looking  not  simply  to  logical  order,  but  also  to 
practical  edification.  The  book  is  not  simply  dogmatic, 
but  devotional.  It  assumes  that  all  who  use  it  are 
Christians,  and  is  thus  not  adapted  for  missionary  work. 
As  to  the  theology  taught  by  the  book,  it  is,  in  the 
main,  that  of  pure  evangelical  Protestantism.  ( )n  the 
doctrine  of  predestination  it  is  so  reticent  that  it  vras 
opposed,  on  the  one  hand,  by  the  Synod  of  Dort,  the 
most  extreme  Calvinistic  body  perhaps  ever  assembled, 
and,  on  the  other  (though  not  without  qualification),  by 


James  Arminius,  the  greatest  of  all  the  opponents  of 
Calvinism.  On  the  nature  of  the  sacraments  the  Cate- 
chism is  Calvinistic,  as  opposed  to  the  Lutheran  doc- 
trine. Dr.  lleppe  (deutschev  Protestant  ismns,  i,  443  sq.) 
goes  too  far  in  asserting  that  the  Catechism  is  thor- 
oughly Melancthonian,  and  in  no  sense  Calvinistic. 
Sudhoff  answers  this  in  his  article  in  Herzog’s  Real-En- 
cyhlopddie , v,  658  sq. ; but  he  himself  goes  too  far,  on 
the  other  side,  in  finding  that  the  Calvinistic  theory  of 
predestination,  though  not  expressly  stated,  is  implied 
and  involved  in  the  view  of  sin  and  grace  set  forth  in 
the  Catechism  (see  Gerhart’s  article  in  the  Tercentenary 
Monument , p.  387  sq.,  and  also  his  statement  in  this 
Cyclopiedia,  iii,  827).  Olevianus,  it  will  be  remember- 
ed, was  educated  under  the  influence  of  Calvin;  Ursiuns 
under  that  of  Melancthon.  Dr.  Schaff  remarks  judi- 
ciously that  “the  Catechism  is  a true  expression  of  the 
convictions  of  its  authors;  but  it  communicates  only  so 
much  of  these  as  is  in  harmony  with  the  public  faith  of 
the  Church,  and  observes  a certain  reticence  or  reserva- 
tion and  moderation  on  such  doctrines  (as  the  twofold 
predestination),  which  belong  rather  to  scientific  theolo- 
gy and  private  conviction  than  to  a public  Church  con- 
fession and  the  instruction  of  youth”  ( American  Presb. 
Review,  July,  1863,  p.  371). 

Literature. — The  300th  anniversary  of  the  formation 
and  adoption  of  the  Heidelberg  Catechism  was  celebra- 
ted in  1863  both  in  Europe  and  America.  One  of  the 
permanent  fruits  of  this  celebration  was  the  publication 
of  The  Heidelberg  Catechism,  Tercentenary  Edition  (New 
York,  1863,  sm.  4to).  This  noble  volume  gives  a com- 
prehensive Introduction  (by  Dr.  Nevin),  and  a critical 
edition  of  the  Catechism  in  four  texts — Old  German, 
Latin,  Modern  German,  and  English — printed  in  par- 
allel columns.  The  Introduction  gives  an  admirable  ac- 
count of  the  literature  ami  history  of  the  Catechism. 
The  text  used  is  that  given  by  Niemeyer,  and  not  that 
of  the  first  edition  of  1563,  which,  as  has  been  stated 
above,  was  reprinted  in  1864.  See  also  Dr.  SchalF s edi- 
tion cited  above,  and  an  article  by  him  in  the  A merican 
Presbyterian  Review  for  1863-  The  Latin  text  (with 
the  German  of  the  3d  ed.  of  1563')  is  given  in  Niemeyer, 
Collectio  Confessionum,  p.  390  sq.;  also  in  an  edition  by 
Dr.  Steiner,  Ctdechesis  Religionis  Christiame  sen  Cate- 
chismas  Ileidelbergensis  (Baltimore,  1862).  Another  val- 
uable fruit  of  the  anniversary  is  The  Tercentenary  Mon- 
ument (Chambersburg,  1863,  8vo),  containing  twenty 
essays  by  eminent  Reformed  theologians  of  Germany, 
Holland,  and  America,  on  the  Catechism,  its  origin, 
history,  its  special  relations  to  the  German  Reformed 
Church,  and  cognate  subjects.  For  the  older  literary 
history,  see  Alting,  llistoria  Ecclesiee  Palatince  (Frankf. 
1701);  Struve,  Pfdlziscke  Kirchenhistorie  (Frankfort, 
1721) ; Mundt,  Grundriss  der  pfalzischen  Kirchenge- 
schichte  bis  1742  (Heidelb.  1798);  Kocher,  Katechetische 
Geschichte  der  Reformirten  Kirche  (Jena,  1756) ; Planck, 
Geschichte  d.prot.  Theologie , ii,  2,  475-491 ; Van  Alpen, 
Geschichte  u.Litteratur  d.  Ileulelb.  Katechismus  (Frankf. 
1800)  ; Augusti,  Einleitung  in  die  beiden  Haupt-Kate- 
chismen  d.  Evang.  Kirche  (Elberf.  1824) ; Ersch  und  Gru- 
ber’s A llg.  Encyhl.  ii,  4,  386  sq. ; Nevin,  Ilist.  ami  Genius 
of  the  Heidelberg  Catechism  (Chambersburg,  1847)  ; Sud- 
hoff, Theologisches  Handbuch  zvr  Auslegung  d.  Heidelb. 
Kat.  (Frankf.  1862).  An  elaborate  article  on  the  liter- 
ature of  the  Catechism,  by  Dr.  Harbaugh,  is  given  in 
the  Mercersburg  Review,  ( Ictober,  1860.  A eopious  list 
of  writers  on  the  Catechism  (covering  twelve  pages)  is 
given  at  the  end  of  Bethune,  Expository  lectures  on  the 
Heidelberg  Catechism  (N.  York,  Sheldon  and  Co.,  2 vols. 
12mo),  an  admirable  practical  commentary,  with  a val- 
uable historical  introduction.  Among  the  older  com- 
mentators are  Ursinus,  Explicationes  Catechesis  Palati- 
nes (Opera,  1612,  vol.  i);  Ursinus,  Apologia  Catechismi 
Palatini  (Opera,  vol.  ii).  Translations  — Ursinus,  The 
Summe  of  Christian  Religion,  lectures  on  the  Catechism, 
transl.  by  H.  Parrie  (Lond.  1617  4to).  The  best  transl. 
of  Ursinus’s  Commentary  is  that  of  the  Rev.  G.  Vi.  Wil- 


HEIDENHEDI 


161 


IIEINICKE 


liard  (Columbus,  1852,8vo,2d  ed.),with  Introduction  by 
Dr.  J.  \VT.  Kevin.  See  also  Cocceius,  II rid.  Cat.  explicata 
et  ittustrata  (Lngd.  Bat.  1671,  Amst.  1678) ; Driessen,  A d 
Cut.  Heid.  ManuJactio  (Gron.  1724,  4to),  Kemp,  Fifty- 
three  Sermons  on  the  Heidelberg  Catechism,  trails,  by  Van 
Harlingen  (New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  1810,  8vo).  For  the 
views  of  the  early  Dntcli  Arminians  on  the  Catechism, 
see  Consulerutiones  Remonstrantium  in  Cat.  Ileidelb.  (in 
Act.  et  Script.  Synod.  Harderwyk,  1620).  See  also  Wol- 
ters,  Zur  Urgeschiehte  d.  Ileidelb.  Kat.,  in  Stud.  u.  Krit. 
1867,  Heft  1 ; Trechsel,  in  Stud.  u.  Krit.  1867,  Heft  3; 
Plitt,  Stud.  u.  Krit.  1863,  Heft  1 ; Mercer  sharp  Review , 
October,  I860. 

Heidenheim  (I/eydenheini),  Wolf,  or  Benjamin 
bex-Simson,  a Hebrew  scholar  and  typographer,  is  dis- 
tinguished in  Hebrew  literature  by  his  exertions  to  pro- 
vide editions  of  the  Pentateuch  free  from  the  errors 
which  marred  preceding  copies.  Indeed,  the  city  in 
which  he  lived,  Rodelheim,  near  Frankfort  on  the  Maine, 
became  in  his  day  the  centre  of  attraction  for  He- 
brew typography.  But  he  has  also  left  ns  works  of 
his  own  which  betoken  a thorough  acquaintance  with 
Hebrew  philology.  Jost  even  assigns  him  a place  by 
the  side  of  Mendelssohn.  Heidenheim  died  in  1832,  at 
a very  old  age.  His  most  important  works  are  “'IIS™': 

a tract  on  the  Hebrew  accents  (Rodelheim, 
1808, 12mo) : — Xi2*2,  a treatise  on  different  parts 
of  Hebrew  grammar  (Rodelheim,  1806, 12mo) : — 

“"X'S  the  Pentateuch,  with  a Hebrew  commen- 

tary, etc.  (Rodelh.  1818-1821, 8vo).  We  have  also  from 
him  a catalogue  of  his  works,  containing  800  in  number, 
under  the  title  (Rodelh.  1833, 8vo).— 

Fiirst , Bib/.  Judaica,  i,  369;  Etheridge,  Introd.  to  I/ebr. 
Lit.  p.  422 ; Steinschneider,  Bibliog.  II ditch,  p.  60 ; Jost, 
Gesch.  d.  Juden.  p.  361 ; Kitto,  ii,  267.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Heifer  (nb^“,  eglah',  fern,  of  “ calf 
rah',  fem.  of  “D,  “bullock;”  Sept,  and  N.  T.  SapaXiQ; 
Vulg.  racca).  The  Hebrew  language  has  no  expression 
that  exactly  corresponds  to  our  “ heifer,”  for  both  eglak 
and  parah  are  applied  to  cows  that  have  calved  (1  Sam. 
vi,  7-12;  Job  xxi,  10;  Isa.  vii,  21);  indeed,  eglah  means 
a young  animal  of  any  species,  the  full  expression  being 
“ heifer  of  kine”  (Deut.  xxi,  3 ; 1 Sam.  xvi, 
2 ; Isa.  vii,  21).  The  heifer  or  young  cow  was  not  com- 
monly used  for  ploughing,  but  only  for  treading  out  the 
corn  (llos.  x,  11;  but  see  Judg.  xiv,  18),  when  it  ran 
about  without  any  headstall  (Deut.  xxv,  4);  hence  the 
expression  an  “unbroken  heifer”  (Hos.  iv,  16;  Autli.  V. 
“ backsliding”),  to  which  Israel  is  compared.  A similar 
sense  has  been  attached  to  the  expression  “ calf  of  three 
years  old,”  iTvw'“Vj  r^IW,  i.  e.  unsubdued , in  Isa.  xv,  5 ; 
Jer.  xlviii,  34 ; but  it  has  by  some  been  taken  as  a prop- 
er name,  Eglath  Shelishigah,  such  names  being  not  very 
uncommon.  The  sense  of  “ dissolute”  is  conveyed  un- 
doubtedly in  Amos  iv,  1.  The  comparison  of  Egypt  to 
a “fair  heiler”  (Jer.  xlvi,  20)  may  be  an  allusion  to  the 
well-known  form  under  which  Apis  was  worshipped  (to 
which  we  may  also  refer  the  words  in  ver.  15,  as  under- 
stood in  the  Sept.,  “ Why  is  the  bullock  [puoxoQ  iicXtic- 
t6q~]  swept  away?”),  the  “destruction”  threatened  being 
the  bite  of  the  gad-fly,  to  which  the  word  Iteretz  would 
fitly  apply.  “To  plough  with  another  man’s  heifer” 
(Judg.  xiv,  18)  implies  that  an  advantage  has  been 
gained  by  unfair  means.  The  proper  names  Eglah,  En- 
eglaim,  and  Parah  are  derived  from  the  Hebrew  terms 
at  the  head  of  this  article. — Smith,  s.  v.  See  Red  Hei- 
fer. 

Heilmann,  Johann  David,  a learned  German  the- 
ologian, was  born  at  Osnabriick  Jan.  13, 1727.  He  stud- 
ied at  Halle,  became  rector  of  Hameln  in  1764,  and  pro- 
fessor of  theology  at  Gottingen  in  1754,  where  he  died 
Feb.  22, 1764.  His  principal  writings  are  Specimen  ob- 
serv.  ad  illustrat.  N.  T.  (Halle,  l743,4to): — Parall'ele  en~ 
tre  I'esprit  d'ir religion  daujourdhui  et  les  anciens  adver- 
IV.— L 


saires  de  la  religion  Chretienne  (Halle,  1750, 8vo) : Com- 

pendium  tlieologiie  dogmatical  (Gottingen,  1761  and  1774, 

. 8vo) : — Opuscu/a  theol.  Argument*  (ed.  Danovius,  Jena, 
1774-77,  2 vols.  8vo). — G.  G.  Heync,  Ileilmanni  Menio- 
ria  (Gottingen,  1764);  Jbcher , Allgem.  gelehrt.  Lexilcon, 
continued  by  Adeliuig,  ii,  1868. 

Heilprin,  Jechiel,  a distinguished  Jewish  philol- 
ogist and  historian,  flourished  in  the  first  part  of  the 
18th  century'.  He  is  said  to  have  been  born  at  Minsk 
in  1728,  but  the  time  of  his  death  is  unknown.  He 
wrote  (niTHtt  ‘Vip)  a History  of  the  Jews,  divided  into 
three  parts : Chronicles  of  Historic  Events,  from  the  Cre- 
ation to  his  own  Time.  2.  Alphabetical  Catalogue  of  the 
Mishnaic  and  Talmudic  Doctors.  3.  Alphabetical  In- 
dex of  Jewish  Literati  (Karlsr.  1769,  and  Zolkien,  1808, 
folio).  Also  (D^SlSrn  WS  O)  a Hebrew  Rabbinic 
Dictionary  adapted  to  the  Rabbotli,  Sifra,  Mekiltha,  Yol- 
kut,  and  the  works  of  the  Cabalists  (Dyrclien flirt,  1806, 
fol.).  Fiirst  eommends  the  excellency  of  these  works, 
and  believes  that  the  first  part  of  Heilprin ’s  history  is 
an  able  contribution  to  Hebrew  literature. — Fiirst,  Bill. 
Judaica , i,  372;  Etheridge,  Introduction  to  I/ebr.  Liter- 
ature, p.  449.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Heineccius,  Johanx  Michael,  a Lutheran  di- 
vine, was  born  at  Eisenherg  Dec.  12,  1674,  and  was  edu- 
cated at  Jena,  Frankfort,  and  Giessen.  After  a visit  to 
Holland  and  Hamburg,  he  settled  for  a time  in  Helm- 
stiidt  as  tutor  ( Docent ),  but  in  1699  became  deacon  at 
Goslar.  In  1709  he  removed  to  Halle  as  pastor,  and  in 
1720  was  appointed  eonsistorial  counsellor  and  ecclesias- 
tical inspector  of  the  circle  of  the  Saal  ( Saalkreis ). 
He  died  Sept.  11, 1722.  His  chief  work,  Eigentliche  und 
icahrhaJUge  Abbildnng  der  alten  und  neuen  griecliischen 
Kirche  nach  Hirer  Ilistorie , Glaubenslehren  und  Kirchen- 
gebrduchen  (Leipsic,  1711),  presents  historically  the  doc- 
trines, government,  liturgy,  and  morals  of  the  Greek 
Church,  ancient  and  modem.  It  is  still  a work  of  great 
value.  Besides  works  in  the  departments  of  antiquities 
and  history,  Heineccius  wrote  Priifung  der  soginanntcn 
neuen  Propheten  und  ihres  ausserordentlichen  Avfstandes 
(Halle,  1715),  against  the  French  prophets  (q.  v.): — 
Sendsch  reiben  an  Thomas  Ittig  we  gen  des  Termini  Gra- 
t ice,  on  the  Tcrminist  controversy:  — Be  Jurisconsultis 
Christianis  priorum  sceeidomm  eorumque  in  eerie siam 
meritis  (Halle,  1713):  — Colloquia  religiosci  publice  et 
pricatim  inter  bina  hcec  sceeulu  hcibita  (Halle  and  Mag- 
deburg, 1719,  4to).  — Herzog,  Reul-Eneyldop.  xix,  624; 
Hoefer,  Noire.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  782;  Sax,  Onomas- 
ticon  liter arium,  pt.  vi,  p.  45.  (J.  W.  M.) 

Heinicke,  Samuel,  a German  philanthropist,  “the 
most  distinguished  of  the  early  teachers  of  the  deaf  and 
dumb  in  Germany,”  was  born  April  10,  1729,  at  Nautz- 
schiltz,  near  Wcissenfels,  in  Frussia,  and  died  at  Leipsic 
April  30,  1790.  He  passed  his  early  life  as  a farmer 
and  soldier,  then  pursued  a course  of  study  in  the  Uni- 
versity' of  Jena,  was  subsequently'  fur  ten  y-ears  a tutor 
of  the  children  of  count  Schimmelmann  at  Hamburg, 
and  then  removed  to  Eppendorf.  In  this  latter  place, 
as  early'  as  1754,  he  became  much  interested  in  a deaf 
and  dumb  child,  and  devised  a system  of  instruction  for 
it,  which  proved  so  successful  as  to  attract  other  deaf 
nnites  to  him  for  instruction,  and  led  to  the  establish- 
ment by  the  elector  of  Saxony  in  1772  of  a school  at 
Leipsic  for  the  education  of  deaf  mutes.  This  school, 
“the  first  ever  established  or  supported  by  the  civil 
government,”  was  placed  under  Heinicke’s  charge,  wa3 
continued  after  his  death  under  the  charge  of  his  wid- 
ow, and  is  still  existing  and  prosperous.  The  “method 
of  instruction  was  by'  articulation  and  reading  on  the 
lip,”  and  is  said  to  have  been  superior  in  some  respects 
to  that  of  the  abbe  de  l’Epee.  Heinicke’s  labors  and 
noble  character  gained  for  him  deservedly  the  affection 
of  the  German  people,  though  his  method  of  treatment 
of  his  pupils  was  probably'  too  harsh,  and  some  of  his 
writings  were  marred  lw  coarse  and  ill-natured  criticisms 
of  opinions  differing  from  his  own.  He  wrote  upon  the 


HEINSIUS 


162 


HEIR 


education  of  deaf  mutes  and  theological  subjects,  viz. : 
Biblische  Geschichte  ties  A Iten  Testaments  znm  Unter- 
richte  taubstummer  Personen  (Hamburg,  1776, 8vo;  only 
first  part  given) : — Beobachtungen  iiber  Stumme  nml  iiber 
die  menschliche  Sprciche  in  Briefen  (llamb.  1778,  8vo) : 
— Ueber  die  Denkart  der  Taubstummen  und  die  M iss- 
handlnngen,  denen  sie  durch  unsinnige  Kuren  und  Lehr- 
arten  ausgesetzt  sind  (Leipsic,  1780,  8vo) : — Ueber  alte 
und  neue  Lehrarten  (Leipsic,  1783)  : — Wichtige  Entdeck- 
ungen  und  Beitrdge  zur  Seelenlehre  und  zur  rnenschlichen 
Sprache  (Leipsie,  1781,  8vo):  — Metaphysik  fur  Schul- 
mdster  und  Plasmacher  (Halle,  1785) : — Ueber  graue 
Vorurtheile  nml  ihre  Schaedlichkeit  (Copenhagen  and 
Leipsic,  1787):  — Scheingotterei  der  Naturalisten,  Deis- 
ten  mid  Atheisten  (Koetlien,  1788) : — Neues  A B C,  Syl- 
ben-und  Lesebuch  nebst  einer  Anweisung,  das  Lesen  in 
knrzer  Zeit  auf  die  leichteste  Art  und  ohne  Buchstubiren 
zn  lernen  (many  editions,  last  Leipsie,  1790).  Schlich- 
tcgroll  assigns  to  Heinieke  also  a work  on  Kant’s  philo- 
sophical works,  printed  in  German  (Fresburg,  1789, 8vo), 
but  Meusel  only  the  preface  to  it.  Ileinicke  also  wrote 
articles  in  the  Teutscher  Mei'kur  and  Teutsches  Museum , 
in  which  he  maintained,  against  the  views  of  the  abbe 
de  l’Epee,  that  deaf  mutes  should  be  taught  not  only  to 
write,  but  also  to  speak. — New  A meriean  Cyclopcedia,  vi, 
301 ; ix,  59 ; Hoefer,  Nouv,  Biogr.  Generate , xxiii,  786 
sq. ; Fetschke,  Ilistorische  Nachricht  von  dem  Unter- 
richte  der  Taubstummen  und  Blinden  (Leipsie,  1793); 
Sehlichtegroll,  Nekrolog  (1790),  p.  313-315;  Meusel, 
Lexikon  der  von  1750  bis  1800  verstorbenen  deutsclien  I 
Schrijlsteller  (Leipsic,  1802-16).  (J.W.  M.) 

Heinsius,  Daniel,  an  eminent  scholar,  was  born 
in  1580  at  Ghent.  He  studied  law  for  some  months  at 
Francker,  but,  determining  to  devote  himself  to  letters, 
lie  went  to  Leyden,  where  ho  studied  under  Joseph  Seal- 
igcr.  In  1599  he  began  to  teach  Latin  in  the  univer- 
sity, and  on  the  death  of  Scaliger  (1609)  lie  was  made 
professor  of  history.  He  was  afterwards  made  librarian 
to  the  University,  and  historiographer  to  the  States  of 
Holland.  He  was  secretary  to  the  Synod  of  Dort,  1618. 
Sec  Dort.  He  died  Feb.  23,  1655.  Besides  editing 
many  Latin  and  Greek  classics,  lie  published  Sacrarum 
exercitationum  ad  X.  T.  libri  xx  (Lugd.  Bat.  1639,  fol.)  : 
— Aristarchus  sacer,  sive  Exercit  at  tones  ad  Nonni  Par- 
aphrasin  in  Johannem  (Lugd.  Bat.  1627,  sm.  8vo).  Ilein- 
sius  was  a strong  advocate  of  a special  Hellenistic  dia- 
lect. 

Heir  (some  form  of  the  verb  IT 'l*’,  to  possess ; Gr. 
icXpoovopog,  a receiver  by  lot).  The  Hebrew  institu- 
tions relative  to  inheritance  were  of  a very  simple  char- 
acter. Under  the  patriarchal  system  the  property  was 
divided  among  the  sons  of  the  legitimate  wives  (Gen. 
xxi,  10;  xxiv,  36;  xxv,  5),  a larger  portion  being  as- 
signed to  one,  generally  the  eldest,  on  whom  devolved 
the  duty  of  maintaining  the  females  of  the  family.  See 
Birthright.  The  sons  of  concubines  were  portioned 
off  with  presents  (Gen.  xlix,  1 sq.),  but  this  may  have 
been  restricted  to  cases  where  the  children  had  been 
adopted  by  the  legitimate  wife  (Gen.  xxx,  3).  But  Ja- 
cob made  the  sons  whom  he  had  by  his  concubines  heirs, 
as  well  as  the  others  (Gen.  xlix,  12-27).  Moses  laid  no 
restrictions  upon  the  choice  of  fathers  in  this  respect; 
and  we  may  infer  that  the  sons  of  concubines,  for  the 
most  part,  received  an  equal  share  with  the  other  sons, 
from  the  fact  that  Jephthah,  the  son  of  a concubine,  com- 
plained that  he  was  excluded  from  his  father’s  house 
without  any  portion  (Judg.  xi,  1-7).  Daughters  had 
no  share  in  the  patrimony  (Gen.  xxxi,  14),  but  received 
a marriage  portion,  consisting  of  a maid-servant  (Gen. 
xxix,  24,  29)  or  some  other  property.  As  a matter  of 
special  favor  they  sometimes  took  part  with  the  sons 
(Job  xlii,  15).  The  Mosaic  law  regulated  the  succession 
to  real  property  thus : it  was  to  be  divided  among  the 
sons,  the  eldest  receiving  a double  portion  (Dent,  xxi, 
17),  the  others  equal  shares:  if  there  were  no  sons,  it 
tvent  to  the  daughters  (Numb,  xxvii,  8),  on  the  condi- 


tion that  they  did  not  marry  out  of  their  own  tribe 
(Numb.  xxxvi,6  sq. ; Tob.  vi,  12;  vii,  13),  otherwise  the 
patrimony  was  forfeited  (Josephus,  Ant.  iv,  7,  5).  If 
there  were  no  daughters,  it  went  to  the  brother  of  the 
deceased ; if  no  brother,  to  the  paternal  uncle ; and,  fail- 
ing these,  to  the  next  of  kin  (Numb,  xxvii,  9-11).  In 
the  ease  of  a widow  being  left  without  children,  the 
nearest  of  kin  on  her  husband’s  side  had  the  right  of 
marrying  her,  and,  in  the  event  of  his  refusal,  the  next 
of  kin  (Ruth  iii,  12, 13) : with  him  rested  the  obligation 
of  redeeming  the  property  of  the  widow  (Ruth  iv,  1 sip), 
if  it  had  been  either  sold  or  mortgaged : this  obligation 
was  termed  (‘‘the  right  of  inheritance"), 

and  was  exercised  in  other  cases  besides  that  of  mar- 
riage (Jer.  xxxii,  7 sq.).  If  none  stepped  forward  to 
marry  the  widow,  the  inheritance  remained  with  her 
until  her  death,  and  then  reverted  to  the  next  of  kin. 
See  Widow.  The  object  of  these  regidations  evidently 
was  to  prevent  the  alienation  of  the  land,  and  to  retain 
it  in  the  same  family : the  Mosaic  law  enforced,  in  short, 
a strict  entail.  Even  the  assignment  of  the  double  por- 
tion, which  under  the  patriarchal  regime  had  been  at  the 
disposal  of  the  father  (Gen.  xlviii,  22),  was  by  the  Mo- 
saic law  limited  to  the  eldest  son  (Dent,  xxi,  15-17). 
The  ease  of  Achsah,  to  whom  Caleb  presented  a field 
(Josh,  xv,  18, 19 ; Judg.  i,  15),  is  an  exception ; but  per- 
haps even  in  that  instance  the  land  reverted  to  Caleb’s 
descendants  either  at  the  death  of  Achsali  or  in  the  year 
of  Jubilee.  The  land  being  thus  so  strictly  tied  up,  the 
notion  of  heirship,  as  we  understand  it,  was  hardly  known 
to  the  Jews:  succession  was  a matter  of  right,  and  not 
of  favor — a state  of  things  which  is  embodied  in  the  He- 
brew language  itself,  for  the  word  (A.  V.  “ to  inher- 
it") implies  possession,  and  very  often  forcible  possession 
(Deut.  ii,  12 ; Judg.  i,  29 ; xi,  24),  and  a similar  idea  lies 
at  the  root  of  the  words  iTTHX  and  nbjT3,  generally 
translated  “inheritance.”  Testamentary  dispositions 
were,  of  course,  generally  superfluous : the  nearest  ap- 
proach to  the  idea  is  the  blessing,  which  in  early  times 
conveyed  temporal  as  well  as  spiritual  benefits  (Gen. 
xxvii,  19,37 ; Josh,  xv,  19).  It  appears,  however,  that 
eventually  the  father  had  at  least  the  right  of  express- 
ing his  last  wishes  or  will  in  the  presence  of  witnesses, 
and  probably  in  the  presence  of  the  heirs  (2  Kings  xx, 
1).  The  references  to  wills  in  the  apostle  Faul’s  writ- 
ings are  borrowed  from  the  usages  of  Greece  and  Rome 
(lleb.  ix,  17),  whence  the  custom  was  introduced  into 
Judiea : several  wills  are  noticed  by  Josephus  in  connec- 
tion with  the  Herods  (Ant.  xiii,  16, 1 ; xvii,  3,  2;  War, 
ii,  2,  3). 

With  regard  to  personal  property,  it  may  be  presumed 
that  the  owner  had  some  authority  over  it,  at  all  events 
during  his  life-time.  The  admission  of  a slave  to  a por- 
tion of  the  inheritance  with  the  sons  (Prov.  xvii,  2)  prob- 
ably applies  only  to  the  personalty.  A presentation  of 
half  the  personalty  formed  the  marriage  portion  ofTo- 
bit’s  wife  (Tob.  viii,  21).  A distribution  of  goods  during 
the  father’s  life-time  is  implied  in  Luke  xv,  11-13:  a 
distinction  may  be  noted  between  o xxjia,  a general  term 
applicable  to  personalty,  and  K\ppovopia,  t lie  landed 
property,  which  could  only  be  divided  after  the  father’s 
death  (Luke  xii,  13). 

There  is  a striking  resemblance  between  the  Hebrew 
and  Athenian  customs  oflieirship,  particularly  as  regards 
heiresses  (t7riic\t]poi),  who  were,  in  both  nations,  bound 
to  marry  their  nearest  relation : the  property  did  not 
vest  in  the  husband  even  for  his  life-time,  but  devolved 
upon  the  son  of  the  heiress  as  soon  as  he  was  of  age, 
who  also  bore  the  name,  not  of  his  father,  but  of  his  ma- 
ternal grandfather.  The  object  in  both  countries  was 
the  same,  viz.  to  preserve  the  name  and  property  of  ev- 
ery family  (Smith,  Diet,  of  Class.  A nt.  s.  v.  Epiclerus). — 
Smith,  s.  v.  Sec  Inheritance. 

In  Col.  i,  15,  Christ  is  called  “the  first-born  of  every 
creature,”  i.  e.  “ the  heir  of  the  whole  creation,”  as  in 
Heb.  i,  2 he  is  called  the  “heir  of  all  things.”  Believers 


HELAH 


163 


IIELEKITE 


are  called  “ heirs  of  the  promise,”  “ of  righteousness,”  “ of 
the  kingdom,”  “of  the  world,”  “of  God,”  “joint  heirs” 
with  Christ,  inasmuch  as  they  are  partakers  of  the  bless- 
ings whieh  God  bestows  upon  his  children,  implying  ad- 
mission to  the  kingdom  of  heaven  and  its  privileges 
(Gal.  iii,  29 ; Ileb.  vi,  17 ; xi,  7 ; Jas.  ii,  5 ; Rom.  iv,  13 ; 
viii,  17),  and  finally  possession  of  the  heavenly  inherit- 
ance (John  xvii,  22-24 ; Rev.  iii,  22).  See  Adoption. 

He'lah  (lleb.  Chelah',  nxbn,rasf,  as  in  Ezek.  xxiv, 
6;  Sept.  ’AXact  v.  r.  ’Awciri),  one  of  the  two  wives  of 
Ashur  (a  descendant  of  Judah),  byr  whom  she  had  three 
sons  (1  Chron.  iv,  5, 7).  B.C.  prob.  eir.  1612. 

Helali  Codex  of  the  O.  T.  See  Manuscripts. 

He'lam  (I  leb.  Cheylam ',  C^n,  'place  of  abundance , 
2 Sam.  x,  16;  but  in  ver.  17,  Chelam',  cbxn  [with  he 
“directive,”  iVsbxn,  Josephus  XaAajud],  for  which  the 
margin  prefers  C X5  H ; Sept.  AiXeip,  Vulgate  I/elam),  a 
place  “beyond  the  river”  (i.  e.  either  east  of  the  Jordan 
or  west  of  the  Euphrates,  although  Josephus,  Ant.  vii,  6, 
3,  understands  it  to  mean  east  of  the  Euphrates),  where 
David  gained  a vietory  over  the  combined  forces  of  the 
Syrians  under  Iladadezer,  apparently  between  Damas- 
cus and  the  country  of  the  Ammonites.  Ewald  ( Isr . 
Gescli.  ii,  620)  compares  the  Alamatha  (’A Ad/nada)  of 
Ptolemy  (v,  15, 25),  on  the  west  bank  of  the  Euphrates, 
near  Nieepliorium.  See  David. 

Hel'bah  (Ileb.  Chelbah',  !"iabn , fatness;  Sept. ’EA- 
j3d  v.  r.  Xej3Sd  and  ch'a),  a town  in  the  tribe  of 
Asher,  from  which  the  Canaanites  were  not  expelled, 
mentioned  between  Achzib  and  Aphik  (Judg.  i,  31); 
but  not  (as  Gesenius  suggests)  identical  with  Alilab, 
which  is  also  mentioned  in  the  same  verse.  Perhaps  it 
was  situated  in  some  fertile  tract  (as  the  names  imply) 
in  the  valley  of  the  Kishon,  possibly  at  Haifa. 

Hel'bon  (lleb.  Chelbon',  ‘j’Obn,  fat,  i.  e.  fertile ; 
Sept.  Xf X(3wv  v.  r.  XtfipMv),  a name  which  occurs  only 
in  Ezek.  xxvii,  18,  where  “ the  wine  of  Helbon”  is  named 
among  the  commodities  brought  from  Damascus  to  the 
great  market  of  Tyre.  The  Syriac,  Symmaehus,  the 
Chaldee,  and  Vulgate,  all  regard  the  word  as  an  appel- 
lative descriptive  of  the  quality  of  the  wine  as  pingue 
vinnm  or  vinum  dulce  coctum.  But  it  is  better  to  accept 
the  indication  of  the  Sept.,  which,  by  giving  the  proper 
name  XtXfiiov,  must  be  supposed  to  have  had  in  view  a 
place,  which  has  lienee  generally  been  inferred  to  be  the 
same  with  that  old  city  of  Syria  that  appears  under  the 
form  of  Chalybon  (XaXvftuv)  in  Ptolemy  {Geog.y,  15) 
and  Strabo  (xv,  505).  The  latter  author  mentions  this 
Chalybon  as  a place  famous  for  wine ; and  in  describing 
the  luxury  of  the  kings  of  Persia,  he  says  they  would 
have  wheat  brought  from  Assos  in  vEolia,  Chalybonian 
wine  out  of  Syria,  and  water  from  the  Eulams  (the  river 
Ulai  of  Dan.  viii,  2),  which  was  the  lightest  of  any. 
Both  Hesychius  and  Plutarch  (PiV.  Alex,  ii)  speak  of 
this  famous  wine.  It  has  generally  been  thought  that 
the  name  was  derived  from  Chalybon,  where  it  was  sup- 
posed the  wine  was  produced.  But  is  it  not  strange 
that  Damascus  should  be  represented  as  supplying  the 
wine  of  Helbon  to  the  marts  of  Tyre?  Why  would  not 
the  native  merchants  themselves  carry  it  thither?  A 
passage  which  Bochart  quotes  from  Athenams  (i,  51) 
throws  light  on  this  point:  “The  king  of  the  Persians 
drank  Chalybonian  wine  alone;  whieh,  says  Poseidoni- 
us,  was  also  produced  in  Damascus"  (Bochart,  Opp.  ii, 
486).  We  are  thus  led,  both  by  the  statement  of  Eze- 
kiel and  by  that  of  Poseidonius,  who  was  himself  a na- 
tive of  Syria,  to  look  for  a Helbon  or  Chalybon  at  or 
near  Damascus.  Seleucus  Nieator  is  said  to  have 
changed  the  name  to  Bercea  (Xiceph.  Callist.  xiv,  39); 
but  the  old  name,  as  we  see  from  Ptolemy,  was  not  for- 
gotten, and  on  the  capture  of  the  city  by  the  Arabs  in 
the  7tli  eentury  it  was  again  resumed  (Schultens,  Index 
Geogr.  in  vitum  Saladini,  s.  v.  Ilalebum). — Kitto.  The 
city  referred  to  has  usually  been  identified  with  the 
modem  Aleppo , a large  city  of  Syria,  called  llakb  by 


the  Arabs ; but  Russel  states  ( Xatural  Hist,  of  A leppo, 
Loud.  1794,  i,  80)  that  but  little  wine  is  made  there,  and 
that  the  white  wines  especially  are  poor  and  thin,  and 
difficult  to  keep ; nor  has  this  place  ever  obtained  any 
celebrity  for  its  vintages.  Hence  Prof.  Ilackett  is  in- 
clined to  adopt  the  suggestion  made  to  him  while  visit- 
ing this  region  in  1852  by  Dr.  Paulding,  one  of  the 
American  missionaries  there,  that  the  Biblical  Ilelbon 
should  rather  be  sought  in  one  of  the  principal  villages 
of  the  same  name  lying  in  the  wady  Ilelbon,  on  the 
eastern  slope  of  Anti-Lebanon,  north  of  the  Barrada. 
He  was  informed  by  those  who  had  visited  the  place 
that  the  grapes  produced  there  are  remarkable  for  their 
fine  quality,  and  that  the  wine  obtained  from  them  is 
regarded  as  the  elioiee  wine  of  that  part  of  Syria  ( Illus- 
trations of  Scripture,  N.  York,  1855,  p.  214).  Dr.  Robin- 
son, to  whom  he  mentioned  this  suggestion,  visited  the 
place  in  his  last  journey  to  Palestine,  and  fidly  aeeords 
with  the  identification.  lie  thus  describes  the  valley 
and  town : “Wady  Ilelbon  is  a valley  an  hour  or  more 
in  length,  shut  in  by  high  and  rugged  sides.  The  bot- 
tom is  a strip  of  level  ground,  everywhere  well  culti- 
vated. Throughout  the  whole  extent  of  the  valley 
there  are  well-kept  vineyards.  Even  places  so  steep 
that  the  vine-dresser  ean  approach  them  with  difficulty 
are  made  to  produce  an  abundance  of  grapes.  In  Da- 
mascus the  grapes  are  ehiefly  esteemed  for  their  fine  fla- 
vor, and  from  them  is  made  the  best  and  most  highly- 
prized  wine  of  the  country.  The  village  of  Ilelbon  is 
nearly  midway  up  the  valley.  There  are  many  ruins 
in  and  around  it,  but  mostly  dilapidated ; and  hewn 
stones,  capitals,  friezes,  and  broken  columns  are  built 
into  the  walls  of  the  modem  dwellings.  On  the  west 
of  the  village  is  an  extensive  ruin,  supposed  to  have 
once  been  a temple.  On  some  of  the  blocks  are  frag- 
ments of  Greek  inscriptions  no  longer  legible”  (new  ed. 
of  Researches,  iii,  471,  472). 

Helchi'ah  (Xf Xtciag,  1 Esd.  viii,  1)  orHelchi'as 
(Ilelcias,  2 Esd.  i,  1),  the  Greek  and  Latin  forms  of  the 
name  of  the  high-priest  Hilkiah  (q.  v.). 

Hel'dai  (Heb. Chelday',  hpbn,  worldly;  Sept. XoX- 
8ai,  but  oi  dpxovTSQ  in  Zeeli.  vi,  10 ; Yulg.  Holdai),  the 
name  of  two  men. 

1.  A Netophathite  and  descendant  of  Othniel,  chief  of 
the  twelfth  division  (24,000)  of  David’s  forces  (1  Chron. 
xxvii.  15).  B.O.  1014.  In  1 Chron.  xi,  30  (where  he 
is  called  Heled)  his  father’s  name  is  said  to  be  Baanah ; 
aud  in  the  parallel  passage  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  29)  he  is  call- 
ed IIeleb. 

2.  One  of  those  lately  returned  from  the  Captivity 
whom  the  prophet  Zecliariah  was  directed  to  take  with 
him  when  he  went  to  crown  the  high-priest  Joshua,  as 
a sj'mbol  of  the  future  Messiah’s  advent  (Zech.  vi,  10). 
B.C.  520.  In  ver.  14  the  name  is  written  Helem. 

Heldua,  the  first  station  mentioned  in  the  Jerusa- 
lem Itinerary  south  of  Ilerytus  and  north  of  Porphyreon ; 
now  probably  khan  el-Khulda  (Robinson,  Bib.  Res.  ii, 
435). — Van  de  Velde,  Memoir,  p.  320. 

He'leb  (Heb.  Che'leb,  2bn , fatness,  as  often;  Sept. 
*EAd<S,  Yulg.  Heled),  son  of  Baanah  the  Netophathite, 
and  one  of  David's  warriors  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  29);  else- 
where more  correetly  called  Heled  (1  Chron.  xi,  30), 
or,  still  better,  Heldai  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  15). 

He'led  (Heb.  Che'led,  "tbri,  this  world,  as  transito- 
ry; Sept.  ’EXf/t) , Yulg.  Heled),  son  of  Baanah,  a Nctopli- 
atliite,  and  one  of  David’s  warriors  (1  Chron.  xi,  30) ; 
called  in  the  parallel  passage  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  29)  Heleb, 
but  more  accurately  Heldai  in  1 Chron.  xxvii,  15. 

He'lek  (Heb.  Che'lek,  pbn,  a portion,  as  often; 
Sept.  XfXiy  and  XiXt\,  Yulg.  Helec ),  the  second  son  of 
Gilead  of  the  tribe  of  Manasseh  (Josh,  xvii,  2),  whose 
descendants  were  called  Helekites  (Hebrew  Chelki', 
^pbn,  Numb,  xxvi,  30;  Sept.  XeAuri).  B.C.  eir.  1612. 

He'lekite  (Numb,  xxvi,  30).  See  Helek, 


HELEM 


164  HELFFEKICH 


He'lem,  the  name  of  one  or  two  men,  variously 
written  in  the  Hebrew. 

1.  He'leji  (S?n,  a stroke;  Sept.  ’E\ap,  Vulg.  He- 
len), a brother  of  Shamer  (or  Shomer)  and  great-grand- 
son of  Asher,  several  of  whose  sons  are  enumerated  in  1 
Chron.  vii,  35;  perhaps  the  same  with  Hotham,  ver.  32. 
B.C.  prob.  cir.  1658. 

2.  Ciie'lem  (C?n,  in  Chaldee  a dream,  as  often  in 
Dan.;  or  robust;  Sept,  oi  virofvovrtq  ooroi/,  Vulg. 
Helen),  one  of  those  associated  with  Zeehariali  in  the 
typical  crowning  of  the  high-priest,  or,  as  it  appears, 
himself  also  crowned  (Zecli.  vi,  14,  “ lleled,”  prob.  by 
erroneous  transcription  for  Heled  or  Heldai,  ver.  10). 

Helena,  St.,  mother  of  Constantine  the  Great.  She 
was  born  about  274;  Gloucester,  Triers,  and  Bithynia  dis- 
pute the  honor  of  being  her  birthplace.  Some  consider 
her  as  of  noble  family,  while  the  older  authorities  state 
that  she  was  daughter  of  a shepherd  or  innkeeper. 
Constantins  Chlorus  is  said  to  have  married  her  for  her 
beauty.  She  is  also  said  to  have  at  first  been  only  his 
concubine,  but  this,  perhaps,  is  a mistake,  arising  from 
the  fact  that  the  Roman  law  applied  to  women  marrying 
above  their  station  a name  which  had  also  this  mean- 
ing. When  Constantius  became  emperor  he  repudiated 
her,  and  she  resided,  perhaps,  in  the  neighborhood  of 
Triers  until  her  son  Constantine  called  her  back  with 
the  title  of  Augusta.  She  did  much  towards  softening 
the  naturally  tyrannical  disposition  of  her  son.  She  un- 
dertook a pilgrimage  to  the  Holy  Land  about  325, where, 
by  so-called  miraculous  agencies,  she  is  said  to  have  dis- 
covered, under  the  ruins  of  a heathen  temple,  the  sepul- 


Sam.  xxiii,  26 ; 1 Chron.  xi,  27 ; xxviii,  10).  B.C.  1014 
et  ante. 

Helfenstein,  Charles,  a minister  of  the  German 
Reformed  Church,  and  son  of  Rev.  J.  C.  A.  Helfenstein, 
was  born  3 larch  29,  1781.  He  spent  his  youth  as  a 
printer,  and  afterwards  studied  theology  with  Rev.  Dr. 
Becker,  of  Baltimore,  Md.  He  was  licensed  and  or- 
dained by  the  Synod  of  the  German  Reformed  Church 
in  May,  1801,  and  was  pastor  successively  at  Alleman- 
gel,  Berks  Comity,  Pa.;  Goshenhoppen,  Montgomery 
County,  Pa. ; Ephrata,  Lancaster  County,  Pa. ; Hanover 
and  Berlin,  York  County,  Pa.;  Rockingham  County, 
Ya.;  and  Mechanicsburg,  Cumberland  County,  Pa.  He 
| died  Dec.  19, 1842.  With  many  innocent  eccentricities, 
he  was  actuated  by  deep  earnestness,  a childlike  piety, 
and  a kindly  spirit.  lie  preached  in  both  the  German 
and  English  languages.  (H.  H.) 

Helfenstein,  John  Conrad  Albert,  one  of  the 
fathers  of  the  German  Reformed  Church  in  the  United 
- States,  was  born  at  Moszbach,  Palatinate,  Feb.  16,  1748. 
He  studied  theology  at  the  University  of  Heidelberg, 
and  was  sent  by  the  Synod  of  Holland,  in  company  with 
Rev.  J.  H.  Helfferich  and  Rev.  J.  G.Gebhard,  as  mission- 
aries to  America.  He  arrived  in  New  York  Jan.  14, 
1772,  and  soon  after  took  charge  of  the  congregation  at 
Germantown,  Pa.  Towards  the  close  of  1775  he  accept- 
ed a call  from  Lancaster,  but  in  1779  returned  to  his 
Germantown  congregation,  and  labored  there  until  his 
death,  May  17, 1790.  He  was  an  eloquent  and  success- 
ful preacher,  and  his  ministry,  both  at  Lancaster  and 
Germantown,  proved  a great  blessing.  Several  small 
volumes  of  his  sermons  have  been  published.— llarbaugh, 


chre  and  cross  of  Christ,  the  latter  of  which  was  “ proved 
genuine  by  the  miracles  it  wrought!”  She  built  a 
church  on  the  site,  which  remains  to  this  day  in  part. 
All  this  gave  a great  impulse  to  pilgrimages  to  the  Holy 
Land,  and  indirectly  to  the  Crusades.  She  left  Pales- 
tine in  327,  returned  to  her  son,  and  died  probably  soon 
after.  The  Romans  claim  to  have  her  remains  in  the 
church  of  Ara  Cceli.  The  monks  of  Hautvilliers,  near 
Rheims  (France),  claim,  on  the  other  hand,  that  one  of 
their  order,  as  early  as  in  the  9th  century,  brought  the 
body  of  the  saint  from  thence  to  their  convent.  Un- 
fortunately, the  Venetians  state,  on  the  other  side,  that 
the  saint  was  buried  at  Constantinople,  and  that  her  re- 
mains were  thence  transferred  to  their  city.  So  devotees 
kneel  in  three  different  places,  on  the  18tli  of  August, 
before  the  remains  of  the  daughter  of  a shepherd  or  inn- 
keeper, who  subsequently  became  a sainted  empress. 
Monographs  on  St.  Helena  and  her  history  are  enumer- 
ated in  Volbeding,  Index  Programmatum,  p.  125.  See 
Eusebius,  Life  of  Constantine ; Herzog,  Real-Encyklop. ; 
and  the  articles  Cross;  Jerusalem. 

He'leph  (Heb.  Che’leph,  an  exchange,  as  in 
Numb,  xviii,  21,  31 ; Sept,  joins  with  prefixed  preposi- 
tion M£s\«0  ; Vulg.  HelepK ),  a city  mentioned  apparent- 
ly as  the  starting-point  of  the  northern  border  of  Naph- 
tali,  beginning  at  the  west  (Josh.  xix,33).  Van  de  Velde 
thinks  it  may  be  the  same  with  Beit-lif  a village  with 
ancient  remains  (comp.  Robinson,  Later  Researches,  p. 
61,  62),  nearly  due  east  of  the  Ras  Abyad,  and  west  of  i 
Kades,  on  the  S.  edge  of  a very  marked  ravine  (wady 
cl-Ayun),  which  probably  formed  part  of  the  boundarv 
between  Naphtali  and  Asher  (Van  de  Velde,  Syria,  i, 
233) ; nor  is  the  objection  of  Keil  ( Comment . ad  loc.),  that 
the  position  is  represented  as  being  at  the  intersection 
of  the  northern  border  of  Palestine  with  the  eastern  line 
of  Asher,  altogether  correct,  since  several  of  the  associ- 
ated names  are  likewise  somewhat  interior. 

He'lez  (Heb.  Che'lets,  ybn  or  ybn,  in  pause  V’bn, 
Cha'lets,  perh.  loin  or  strong;  Sept.  XaWiq  or  XtWi/q 
v.  r.  XeWijq  ; Vidg.  IJeles,  Jlelles),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  Son  of  Azariah  and  father  of  Eleasah,  of  the  tribe 
of  Judah  (1  Chron.  ii,  39).  B.C.  apparently  ante  1017. 

2.  An  Ephraimite  of  Pelon,  and  one  of  David’s  war- 
riors, and  afterwards  captain  of  his  seventh  regiment  (2 


Fathers  of  the  Reformed  Church , ii,  222  sq. 

Helfenstein,  Jonathan,  a German  Reformed 
minister,  third  son  of  Rev.  J.  C.  A.  Helfenstein,  was  born 
in  Germantown,  Pa.,  Jan.  19, 1784.  He  studied  theol- 
ogy with  Rev.  Dr.  Becker,  of  Baltimore,  Md.  He  was 
licensed  m 1805,  and  ordained  in  1807 ; pastor  of  the 
German  Reformed  congregation  in  Carlisle  till  1811, 
when  he  was  called  to  Frederick,  Md.,  where  he  labored 
with  great  success  to  the  time  of  his  death,  Sept.  29, 
1829.  He  was  a zealous  pastor,  and  an  impressive 
preacher  in  both  the  German  and  English  languages. 
(H.  11.) 

Helfferich,  John  Henry,  a minister  of  the  Ger- 
man Reformed  Church  in  the  United  States,  was  bom 
at  Moszbach,  Palatinate,  Oct.  22, 1739.  After  studying 
theology,  he  was  licensed  Sept.  22, 1761,  and  labored  for 
a time  in  his  own  country.  In  January,  1772,  lie  ar- 
rived in  New  York  as  a missionary,  together  with  Rev. 
J.  C.  A.  Helfenstein  and  Rev.  J.  G.  Gebhard.  He  soon 
after  settled  at  Weissenberg,  Lehigh  County,  Pa.,  where 
his  charge  comprehended  as  many  as  seven  congrega- 
tions at  one  time.  Here  he  remained,  declining  all  calls 
from  other  churches,  and  labored  faithfully  until  his 
death,  Dec.  5, 1810.  “During  his  ministry  Mr.  Helferich 
baptized  5830,  and  confirmed  4000  souls.  He  may  be 
regarded  as  the  father  of  the  German  Reformed  Church 
in  the  field  over  which  his  labors  extended.  Though 
that  part  of  the  Church  did  not  escape  the  general  stag- 
nation of  a later  period  through  German  rationalism 
and  indifference,  yet  the  vantage-ground  upon  which  it 
was  placed,  by  means  of  his  labors,  has  been  a blessing 
to  it  down  to’ our  day.”— llarbaugh,  Fathers  of  the  Re- 
formed Church , ii,  241  sq. 

Helfferich,  John,  a son  of  Rev.  John  Henry  Helf- 
fcrich,  was  born  in  Weissenberg,  Lehigh  County,  Pa., 
Jan.  17,  1795.  He  completed  his  theological  studies 
with  Rev.  Dr.  Samuel  Helfenstein  in  Philadelphia,  was 
licensed  in  1816,  and  ordained  in  1819.  lie  became  pas- 
tor of  the  same  congregations  in  Lehigh  County,  Pa., 
which  his  father  had  served  for  many  years,  in  which 
field  he  continued  to  labor  with  much  zeal  and  success 
to  the  end  of  his  life.  He  died  suddenly,  April  8,  1852. 
During  his  ministry  he  baptized  4591,  and  received  into 
full  communion  with  the  Church,  by  confirmation,  be- 


IIELI 


165 


HELL 


tween  two  and  three  thousand  persons.  He  preached 
only  in  the  German  language.  (H.  H.) 

He'li,  or  rather  Eu  (’HAi,iu  some  ed. 'HAi  or'HAe/, 
Heb.  lb?,  El‘?h  a uame  that  occurs  once  in  the  N.  T. 
and  once  in  the  Apocrypha. 

1.  The  third  of  three  names  inserted  between  Achitob 
and  Aniarias  in  the  genealogy  of  Ezra,  in  2 Esd.  i,  2,  for 
which  there  is  no  corresponding  name  in  the  Ileb.  list 
(Ezra  vii,  2, 3). 

2.  The  father-in-law  of  Joseph,  and  maternal  grand- 
father of  Christ  (Luke  iii,  28).  B.C.  ante  22.  See  Gen- 
ealogy of  Jesus  Christ. 

Heli'as,  the  Latin  form  (2  Esd.  vii,  39)  of  the  name 
of  the  prophet  Elijah. 

Helioddrus  (’HAuichapoc,  i.  e.  yift  of  the  sun , a 
not  unfrequent  Greek  name),  the  treasurer  (6  tiri  riov 
Trpaypdrmv)  of  Seleucus  Philopator,  who  was  commis- 
sioned by  the  king,  at  the  instigation  of  Apollonius  (q. 
v.),  to  carry  away  the  private  treasures  deposited  in  the 
Temple  at  Jerusalem.  According  to  the  narrative  in  2 
Maec.  iii,  9 sq.,  he  was  stayed  from  the  execution  of  his 
design  by  a “great  apparition”  (imepdvtut),  in  conse- 
quence  of  which  he  fell  down  “compassed  with  great 
darkness,”  and  speechless.  He  was  afterwards  restored 
at  the  intercession  of  the  higli-priest  Onias,  and  bore 
witness  to  the  king  of  the  inviolable  majesty  of  the 
Temple  (2  Macc.  iii).  The  full  details  of  the  narrative 
are  not  supported  by  any  other  evidence.  Josephus, 
who  -was  unacquainted  with  2 Mace.,  takes  no  notice  of 
it  xii,  3,  3);  and  the  author  of  the  so-called  iv 
Macc.  attributes  the  attempt  to  plunder  the  Temple  to 
Apollonius,  and  differs  in  his  account  of  the  miraculous 
interposition,  though  he  distinctly  recognises  it  ( De 
Macc.  4 ovpavoQtv  ttynnrm  n -povtpavtjoav  ayytXoi  . . . 
KciTairtatov  dk  t)pi9avi)g  6 'AiroXXojviog  . . .).  Ileli- 
odorus  afterwards  murdered  Seleucus,  and  made  an  un- 
successful attempt  to  seize  the  Syrian  crown  (App.  Syr. 
45).  B.C.  175.  Comp.  AVernsdorf,  De  fde  Lihr.  Macc. 
§ liv.  Raffaelle’s  grand  picture  of  “ Ileliodorus”  has 
often  been  copied  and  engraved. — Smith,  s.  v. 

Heliodorus  of  Ehiera,  in  Syria,  flourished  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  4th  century  after  Christ.  lie  was  the 
author  of  the  celebrated  romance  entitled  yEthiopica , 
or  account  of  the  love  and  adventures  of  Theogenes  and 
Chariclea,  the  oldest  and  best  of  the  Greek  romances,  and 
the  model  of  many  subsequent  ones.  This  was  written 
in  early  life,  and  afterwards  Ileliodorus  became  a Chris- 
tian, and  was  made  bishop  of  Tricca,  in  Sicily,  where 
he  introduced  the  regulation  that  every  married  priest 
should,  upon  his  ordination,  separate  from  his  wife  or  be 
deposed  (Socrates,  Hist.  Eccles.  v,  22).  Nicephoros  states 
(Hist.  Eccles.  xii,  34)  that  a provincial  synod,  because  of 
the  injurious  tendency  of  the  yEthiopica  upon  the  minds 
of  the  young,  decreed  that  Heliodorus  should  either  con- 
demn and  disown  it,  or  resign  his  bishopric.  This  state- 
ment is  generally  rejected  as  improbable,  since  it  is  made 
by  no  other  author,  and  the  yEthiopica  contains  nothing 
of  a corruptive  tendency.  The  best  edition  of  the  Greek 
text  is  that  by  Coraes  (Paris,  1804,2  vols.  8vo). — Smith, 
Diet.  Grk.  and  Rom.  Biop.  and  Mythology,  ii,  373 ; Dun- 
lop, Hist,  of  Fiction  (London,  1845, 1 vol.  8vo),p.  18-24; 
Pliotius,  Cod. 73 ; Herzog, Real-Encyklopudie , v,  699.  (J. 
AV.  M.) 

Heliogabalus  (Elagabalus),  emperor  of  Rome, 
was  born  at  Emesa  about  A.D.205.  His  name  was  Va- 
rus Avitus  Bassianus,  hut  he  was  made  priest  of  Elaga- 
balus (El-Gabal),  the  Syro-Phoenician  Sun-god,  about 
A.D.  217,  and  took  that  name.  In  May,  218,  through 
the  intrigues  of  his  mother,  Julia  Mcesa,  with  the  sol- 
diery, he  was  proclaimed  emperor ; and,  soon  after,  Ma- 
crinus,  who  was  marching  to  put  down  this  usurpation, 
was  defeated.  His  reign,  which  lasted  not  quite  four 
years,  was  characterized  by  superstition,  licentiousness, 
and  cruelty  to  a degree  hardly  rivalled  by  the  worst 
Roman  emperors.  He  introduced  the  worship  of  the 
Sun-god  into  Rome,  and  even  passed  a decree  that  no 


other  celestial  power  should  be  worshipped.  The  prie- 
torians  slew  him  in  camp,  A.1).  222.  As  he  himself  in- 
troduced a new  religion  into  Rome,  it  was  not  his  policy 
to  persecute,  and  so,  during  that  time,  the  Christians 
had  “ rest.” 

Hel'kai  (Ileb.  Chelkaif , "jrbn,  for  FPpbn , Jehovah 
is  his  portion;  Sept.  *E\«-ot),  son  of  Meraiotli,  and  one 
of  the  chief  priests  in  the  time  of  the  high-priest  Joia- 
kim  (Neb.  xii,  15).  B.C.  post  536. 

Hel'kath  (Ileb.  Chelkath ',  rpbn,  Josh,  xix,  25,  but 
F£bn,  even  without  pause-accent,  Josh.  xxi,31 ; “con- 
struct” of  !"l£Pn,  smoothness , as  in  Gen.  xxvii,  16,  or  por- 
tion, as  in  Gen.  xxxiii,  19,  etc.;  Sept.  XtXicdS),  a town 
of  Asher,  on  the  eastern  border,  mentioned  as  the  start- 
ing-point in  the  direction  (apparently  southward)  to 
Achshaph  (Josh,  xix,  25) ; assigned  as  one  of  the  Le- 
vitieal  cities  (Josh.  xxi,31).  In  1 Chron.  vi,  75,  it  ap- 
pears to  be  erroneously  written  Hukok.  See  Hukkok. 
In  the  Onomasticon  it  is  simply  mentioned  by  Eusebius 
as  ’E Bag,  by  Jerome  as  Elcath;  but  neither  seems  to 
have  known  it.  De  Sauley  inclines  to  identify  it  with 
a village  called  Kirkeh,  which  he  reports  not  far  south- 
east of  Akka  (Xarrutive,  i,68) ; and  Schwarz  ( Palestine , 
p.  191)  thinks  it  is  the  modern  YerJca,  about  seven  miles 
north-east  of  Alika;  but  neither  of  these  positions  is  in 
the  neighborhood  indicated  by  the  text,  which  rather 
requires  a locality  nearer  the  north-eastern  angle  of  the 
tribe,  not  unlikely  at  the  ruined  village  Ukrith,  about 
twelve  miles  S.E.  of  Tyro,  as  proposed  by  Van  de  Velde 
(Memoir,  p.  320).  See  IIelkatii-iiazzuri.m. 

Kerkath-haz'zurim  (Heb.  Chelkath ' hats-  Tsitrim, 
of  the  rocks),  a designation  of  the 
plain  just  below  the  pool  of  Gibeon,  on  the  east,  acquired 
from  the  deadly  combat  between  twelve  of  Ishbosheth’s 
men  and  as  many  of  David’s,  which  fonned  a prelude  to 
the  general  engagement  (2  Sam.  ii,  16).  See  Gibeon. 
As  to  the  name,  “Ewald  approves  the  reading  which  the 
Sept,  seem  to  have  followed  (pepig  rmv  iirifiovXmp,  ap- 
parently from  their  reading  tj“H2in),as  that  which  alone 
gives  a suitable  meaning  to  the  name  ( Gesch.Isr . ii,575, 
note  1).  Gesenius  renders  by  ‘ the  field  of  swords,’  which 
can  hardly  be  admitted;  for,  though  1*1 2£  is  used  in  the 
sense  of  an  ‘ edge,’  it  is  never  used  simply  for  ‘ sword.’ 
FUrst  gives  Felsenkahlhcit,  ‘rock -smoothness,’  as  the 
meaning,  the  place  being  smooth  and  level  as  a surface 
of  rock.  Aquila  gives  KXijpog  rwv  artptdp,  and  the 
Vulg.A^er  robustorum,  taking  "ISIX  in  a figurative  sense, 
of  which,  however,  there  is  no  other  instance”  (Kit to). 

Helki'as  (XeXtciae),  a still  different  Greek  form  (1 
Esd.  i,  8)  of  the  name  of  the  high-priest  Hii.kiah. 

Hell,  a term  which  originally  corresponded  more  ex- 
actly to  Hades,  being  derived  from  the  Saxon  helan,  to 
cover,  and  signifying  merely  the  covered,  or  invisible 
place — the  habitation  of  those  who  have  gone  from  this 
visible  terrestrial  region  to  the  world  of  spirits.  But  it 
has  been  so  long  appropriated  in  common  usage  to  the 
place  of  future  punishment  for  the  wicked,  that  its  ear- 
lier meaning  has  been  lost  sight  of.  In  the  English  Bi- 
ble it  is  used  in  the  wider  sense. 

I.  Hebrew  and  Greek  Terms. — The  three  words,  which 
all  but  monopolize  the  subject,  are  blXlT,  EheoT,  in  the 
O.  T. ; and  "AiHtjg,  Hades,  and  Vitvva,  Gehenna,  in  the 
N.T.  b’lX'lj  occurs  65  times;  in  61  of  these  it  is  rendered 
in  the  Sept,  by  "Atirjg  ; twice  by  Odvarog  (2  Sam.  xxii, 
6,  and  Prov.  xxiii,  14) ; and  twice  omitted  in  the  com- 
mon text  (Job  xxiv,  19;  Ezek.  xxxii,  21).  In  the  Vulg. 
bix^j  is  translated  48  times  by  Infernvs,  and  17  times 
by  Inftrus  [mostly  Itferi  (plur.)].  In  our  A.  V.  it  is 
represented  31  times  by  Grave,  31  times  by  Hell,  and  3 
times  by  Pit.  In  the  N.  Test,  onr  word  Hell  occurs  23 
times ; 12  times  it  stands  for  Tttpva,  and  1 1 times  [per- 
haps  the  twelfth  should  be  added,  see  Tischendorf  and 
Bruder  (Concord.)  on  Rev.  iii,  7]  for  "Acgg.  The  A ulg. 


HELL 


166 


HELL 


closely  follows  the  original  in  its  X.-T.  renderings;  in 
all  the  twelve  passages  ritvva  is  simply  copied  into  Ge- 
henna, while  Infernus  stands  for  every  occurrence  of 
"Afo)g,  except  once  (Matt,  xvi,  18),  where  the  phrase 
irvXac  qSov  (“gates  of  hell')  becomes  “portae  inferi .” 
.Since,  therefore,  S'X'T,  " Ac  >jg,  and  Vhvva,  are  employ- 
ed in  the  sacred  original  to  designate  the  mysteries  of 
Hell,  we  proceed  to  give  first  their  probable  derivation, 
and  then  their  meaning,  so  far  as  Holy  Scripture  assists 
in  its  discovery. 

(I.)  Their  Derivation. — 1.  b'X'T  (or,  as  it  is  occasion- 
ally written,  pjt'T),  Sheol',  is  by  most  of  the  old  writers 
(see  Coccei us, Lex.  p.840,841 ; Schindler, Lex. Pent.  1 782; 
Kobinson,  Key  to  Hebrew  Bible,  ii,  217;  and  Leigh,  Grit. 
Sacra,  i,  238 ; ii,  6)  referred  for  its  origin  to  5 NT,  to  de- 
mand, seek,  or  ask.  They  are  not  agreed  as  to  the  mode 
of  connecting  the  derivative  with  this  root;  Cocceius 
suggests  an  absurd  reason,  “SlX’T  notat  eum  locum  in 
quo  qui  est  in  qiuestione  est ” (!)  A more  respectable  so- 
lution is  suggested  by  those  who  see  in  the  insatiable- 
ness of  STX’T  (Prov.  xxx,  15, 1G)  a good  ground  for  con- 
necting it  with  the  root  in  question.  Thus  Fagius  on 
Hen.  xxxvii;  Buxtorf,  Lexicon,  s.  v.,  referring  to  Isa.  v, 
14;  Habak.  ii,  5;  Prov.  xxvii,  20.  (Ernst  Meier,  Ilebr. 
IT-tt’-ft,  p.  187,  also  adopts  this  root,  but  lie  is  far-fetched 
and  obscure  in  his  view  of  its  relation  to  the  derived 
word).  (A  good  defence  [by  a modern  scholar]  of  this 
derivation  of  Sheol  from  the  verb  bX'T  is  given  by  Gil- 
der, Lehre  v.  cl.  Erschein.  Jesu  Christi  unter  den  Todten 
[Berne,  1853],  and  more  briefly  in  his  art.  Hades  [Her- 
zog, v„441,  Clark’s  trans,  ii,  4G8].  His  defence  is  based 
on  the  many  passages  which  urge  the  insatiable  demand 
of  Sheol  for  all  men,  such  as  those  we  have  mentioned 
in  the  text,  and  Gen.  xxxvii,  35 ; 1 Sam.  xxviii ; Psa. 
vi,  G,  and  Ixxxix,  49.  See  also  Yenema  [on  Tsa.  xvi, 
10] ; J.  A.  Quensted,  Tract,  de  Sepultnra  Veterum,  ix,  1.) 
Botteher  ( De  Irferis,  p.  7G,  § 159)  finds  in  the  root  ^T'T, 
to  be  hollow,  a better  origin  for  our  word.  Gesenius 
(Thes.  p.  1347),  who  adopts  the  same  derivation,  sup- 
poses that  means  to  dig  out,  and  so  contrives  to 
unite  bv'2  and  bx'T.  by  making  the  primary  idea  of 
digging  lead  to  the  derived  one  of  seeking  (see  Job  iii,2l). 
Bdttclier  goes  on  to  connect  the  German  words  Hold 
(hollow)  and  Huhle  (cavity)  with  the  idea  indicated  by 
and  timidly  suggests  the  possibility  of  Ilolle  (Hell) 
coming  from  Ilohle.  Whilst  decidedly  rejecting  this 
derivation,  we  do  not  object  to  his  derivation  of  the.  He- 
brew noun ; amidst  the  avowed  uncertainty  of  the  case, 
it  seems  to  be  the  least  objectionable  of  the  suggestions 
which  have  been  offered,  and,  to  provide  an  intelligible 
sense  for  the  word  Sheol,  most  in  harmony  with  many 
Biblical  passages.  Botteher  defines  the  term  to  mean 
“vastus  locus  subterraneus”  (p. 72,  § 153).  This  agrees 
very  well  with  the  rendering  of  our  A.  V.  in  so  far  as  it 
has  used  the  comprehensive  word  Hell,  which  properly 
signifies  “a  covered  or  concealed  place.” 

2.  Hades.  — The  universally  allowed  statement  that 
the  X.  T.  has  shed  a light  on  the  mysteries  of  life  and 
immortality  which  is  only  in  an  inferior  degree  discov- 
ered in  the  O.  T.,  is  seldom  more  distinctly  verified  than 
in  the  uncertainty  which  attaches  to  Sheol  (the  difficul- 
ty of  distinguishing  its  various  degrees  of  meaning, 
which  it  is  generally  felt  exist,  and  which  our  A.  V.  has 
endeavored  to  express  by  an  equal  balance  between  Hell 
and  Grave'),  in  contrast  with  the  distinction  which  is 
implied  in  the  about  equally  frequent,  terms  of  Hades 
and  Gehenna,  now  to  be  described.  The  "ASgg  of  the 
X.  T.  was  suggested,  no  doubt,  by  its  frequent  occurrence 
in  the  Sept.  The  word  was  originally  unaspirated,  as 
in  Homer’s  ’AWao  iruXai  (II.  v,  646 ; ix,  312),  and  He- 
siod’s ’AiSeto  icuva  xaXKtotptovov  ( Theog . 311),  and  Pin- 
dar’s ’Aicav  XaxiLv  (Pyth.  v,  130).  This  form  of  the 
word  gives  greater  credibility  to  the  generally  received 
derivation  of  it  from  a privat.  and  ictiv,  to  see.  (The 


learned  authors  of  Liddell  and  Scott’s  Greek  Lex.  [s.  v. 
"Ad/pj]  throw  some  doubt  on  this  view  of  the  origin  of 
the  word,  because  of  its  aspirated  beginning,  in  Attio 
Greek.  But  surely  this  is  precarious  ground.  Is  it 
certain  that  even  in  Attic  writers  it  was  invariably  as- 
pirated? iEschylus  [ Sept.  c.  Theb.  (Palev)  310]  has 
'Aicq,  TTpoic'nbai  [with  the  lenis ],  according  to  the  best 
editing.  It  is  true  that  this  is  in  a chorus,  but  in  the 
Agam.  1505,  also  a choral  line,  we  read  /irjdiv  iv  "Adov 
jxtyaXavxGrm  [with  the  aspirate],  as  if  the  usage  were 
uncertain.  Possibly  in  the  elliptical  phrase  iv  'AiCov 
[scil  o’/kw]  the  aspirate  occurs  because  the  genitive  is 
really  the  name  of  the  God  [not  of  the  region,  which 
might,  for  distinction,  have  been  then  unaspirated]). 
Plutarch  accordingly  explains  it  by  dtiSig  uai  doparov 
(De  Isid.  et  Osir.  p.  382),  and  in  the  Etymol.  Magn.  (icpg 
is  defined  as  yoipioj'  dcjityytg,  oKurovg  aiujviov  icai  ^o- 
<pov  7TC7rXi)po/iii>ov  ...  tv  tit  outiv  l3\t7roptv.  Hades 
is  thus  “ the  invisible  place  or  region “ Locus  visibus 
nostris  subtraetus, “ as  Grotius  defines  it. 

3.  Gehenna  (ritvva)  is  composed  of  the  two  Heb.  words 
N"5  (valley)  and  E'iH  (Ilinnom,  the  name  of  the  pro- 
prietor of  the  valley).  In  the  Sept.  Yaiti'va  is  used  in 
Josh,  xviii.  IG  to  designate  “the  valley  of  the  son  of  Hin- 
nom”  the  full  expression  of  which  is  ESrPjE  “1f..  The 
shorter  appellation  E^H  occurs  in  the  same  verse. 
The  Rabbinical  writers  derive  E£H  from  EH:,  “ rugire ” 
[to  groan  or  mourn,  in  Ezek.  xxiv,  23],  as  if  indicative 
of  the  cries  of  the  children  in  the  horrid  rites  of  the  Mo- 
loch-worship (see  Buxtorf,  Lex.  Rab.  p.  108;  Glassius 
[ed.  Dathii  j,  Philolog.  Sacr.  i,  806).  The  etymological 
remarks  have  paved  our  way  to  the  next  section  of  our 
subject. 

(II.)  Biblical  Meaning  of  these  three  Tains . — 1.  Mean- 
ings o/5'X’T,  Sheol. — (1.)  The  “ Grave.”  Much  contro- 
versy has  arisen  whether  within  the  meaning  of  Sheol 
shoiild  be  included  “the  grave;”  indeed  this  is  the  only 
question  of  difficulty.  The  fact,  which  we  have  already 
stated,  that  our  A.  V.  translates  PIX'J  quite  as  often  by 
“grave” as  by  the  general  term  “hell,” supplies  aprimd 
facie  reason  for  including  it.  "Without,  however,  in- 
sisting on  the  probability  that  polemical  theology,  rath- 
er than  Biblical  science,  influenced  our  translators,  at 
least  occasionally,  in  their  rendering  of  the  word,  we 
may  here  adduce  on  the  other  side  the  telling  fact  that 
of  all  the  ancient  versions  not  one  translates  in  any  pas- 
sage the  Hebrew  Sheol  by  the  equivalent  of  grave.  The 
other  Greek  translators,  like  the  venerable  Sept.,  so  far 
as  their  fragments  show  (see  Origen,  Ilexaplu,  passim), 
everywhere  give  "Aictjg  for  VlN'T  (sometimes  they  use 
for  the  locative  case  the  older  and  better  phrase  tig,  iv 
"AiSov,  sometimes  the  more  recent  and  vulgar  tig  tov 
"AcSijv,  iv  rip  "Auy).  The  Samaritan  text  in  the  seven 
passages  of  the  Pentateuch  has  either  5‘P‘T  (Siol)  or 
Onkelos  and  Jonathan  everywhere,  except  in 
five  passages,  retain  blX'T.  The  Peshito  everywhere 
in  both  Testaments  renders  the  Hebrew  Sheol  and  the 
Greek  Hades  by  [b!P'T]  Shiul ; and,  as  we  have  al- 
ready seen,  the  Yulg.  translates  the  same  words  in  both 
the  O.  T.  and  the  X.  T.  by  inferus  (plur.  Inferi  mostly), 
and,  above  all,  Infernus  (see  above  for  particulars).  It 
is  to  the  later  Targumists  (the  pseudo- Jonathan  and  the 
Jerusalem  Targum),  and  afterwards  to  the  Rabbinical 
doctors  of  the  Middle  Ages,  that  we  trace  the  version 
of  the  “sepulchre”  and  “the  grave”  (thus  in  Gen. 
xxxvii,  35:  xlii,  38;  xliv,  29,31,  these  Targumists  ren- 
dered Sheol  by  Nr.^i*EJ7  "'E  [the  house  of  burial] ; sim- 
ilarly did  they  render  Psa.  cxli,  7;  Job  vii,  9;  xiv,  13; 
xvii,  13, 16;  xxi,  13;  Eccles.  ix,  10,  and  other  passages, 
in  which  it  is  observable  how  often  they  have  been  fol- 
lowed by  our  translators).  See,  for  more  information  on 
this  point,  archbishop  Usher,  iro?*£s  [by  Elrington],  iii, 
319-321 ; and,  more  fully,  Botteher  (p.  68-70,  sec.  146- 
149),  who  quotes  Rashi  and  Aben  Ezra  [on  Gen.  xxxvii, 


HELL 


167 


HELL 


S5J,*  D.  Kimchi  (Lib.  Radic.  s.  v.  Vl!Sp);  and  other 
Rabbis  who  expressly  admit  the  grave  within  the  scope 
of  the  meaning  of  Sheol;  Bottcher  also  quotes  a very 
long  array  of  commentators  and  lexicographers  [Rabbi 
Marclochai  Nathan,  with  extravagant  one-sidedness,  in 
his  Ifebr.  Concord,  gives  no  other  sense  to  Shea l but 
“Op,  the  grave ],  who  follow  the  Rabbinical  doctors 
herein ; and  he  adds  the  names  of  such  writers  as  deny 
the  meaning  of  the  grave  to  the  Hebrew  Sheol:  among 
these  occur  the  learned  Dutch  divines  Vitringa  and  Ve- 
nema.  The  latter  of  these  expressly  affirms,  “VlX'j 
nullo  modo  ad  sejmlchrum  pertinebit ” (Comment,  ad  Ps. 
i,  501).  To  the  authorities  lie  mentions  we  would  add, 
as  maintaining  the  same  view,  the  learned  Henry  Ains- 
worth (on  Gen.  xxxvii,  35,  Works,  p.  135),  who  draws 
an  important  distinction;  “biitllj,  the  grave,  the  word 
mcaneth  not  the  grave  digged  or  made  with  hands, 
which  is  named  in  Hebrew  ^3p,  but  it  meaneth  the 
common  place  or  state  of  death”  (a  similar  distinction 
is  drawn  by  Luther  (Enarr.  in  Genes,  xlii,  38]  ; “lip  is 
only  the  grave  in  which  an  actual  interment  takes 
place ; none  that  die  unburied  can  have  this  word  used 
of  them;  their  receptacle  is  P'X'r,  “commune  quoddam 
receptaculum  non  corporum  tantum  sed  et  animarum, 
ubi  omnes  mortui  congregantur.”  Ann.  Seneca  [lib.x iii, 
controvers.  4]  observes  between  natural  burial  and  arti- 
ficial— “ Omnibus  natura  sepulturam  dedit,”  etc.  So 
Lucan,  vii,  818,  says — “ Capit  omnia  tellus  Qua;  genuit; 
ccelo  tegitur,  qui  non  liabet  urnam.”  Pliny  (Hist.  Nat. 
vii,  51]  distinguishes  between  natural  burial  by  apply- 
ing to  it  the  word  sepelire,  and  burial  by  ceremony  by 
using  of  it  the  synonyme  hitmare ) ; Nicolaus  (De  Sepul- 
chris  Ilebr.  i,  8-14),  who  shows  that  bix'p  is  never  used 
of  funeral  pomp,  nor  of  the  burial  of  the  body  in  the 
ground ; Eberhard  Busmann,  who  [in  1682]  wrote  Dis- 
sertutio  philol.  de  Scheol  Ilebr.,  makes  a statement  to 
the  effect  that  he  had  examined  all  the  passages  in  the 
O.  4'.,  and  pronounces  of  them  thus — “ Nullum  eorum 
(excepto  forsan  lino  vel  altero,  de  quo  tamen  adhuc  du- 
bitari  potest)  de  sepulchro  necessario  est  intelligendum  . . . 
multa  tamen  contra  ita  sunt  comparata  lit  de  sepulchro 
nullo  modo  intelligi  possint,  nec  debeant.”  Some  mod- 
ern writers,  who  have  specially  examined  the  subject, 
also  deny  that  VlX’p  ever  means  “the  grave.”  Thus 
Breecher,  On  the  Immortalitg  of  the  Sold  as  held  by  the 
Jems  (and  Vareau,  Comment,  de  Immort.  ac  vita;  fut.  no- 
tit. 1807). 

These  reasons  have  led  learned  men,  who  have  espe- 
cially examined  the  subject,  to  exclude  the  grave  (spe- 
cifically understood  as  a made  or  artifeial  one)  from  the 
proper  meaning  of  Sheol.  We  cannot  but  accept  their 
view  in  critical  exactness.  But  there  is  an  inexact  and 
generic  sense  of  Sheol  in  which  the  word  grave  well  ex- 
presses the  meaning  of  the  Scripture  passages  just  men- 
tioned, and  (in  justice  to  the  A.V.  it  may  be  admitted) 
of  most  of  the  others,  which  our  translators  rendered  by 
this  word.  (The  passages  in  which  the  A.  V.  renders 
VlXd  by  grave  are  these — Gen.  xxxvii,  35;  xlii,  38; 
xliv,  29,  31 ; 1 Sam.  ii,  6 ; 1 Kings  ii,  6,  9;  Job  vii,  9; 
xiv,  13;  xvii,  13;  xxi,  13;  xxiv,  19;  Psa.  vi,  5 [Hebr. 
6];  xxx,  3 [4];  xxxi,  17  [18];  xlix,  14  [15],  twice; 
xlix,  15  [16];  lxxxviii,  3 [4];  lxxxix,  48  [49];  cxli, 
• 7;  l’rov.  i,  12;  xxx,  16;  Eccles.  ix,  10;  Cant,  viii,  6; 
Isa.  xiv,  11  [marg.  of  v,  9 has  grave] ; xxxviii,  10,  18; 
Ezek.  xxxi,  15;  Hos.  xiii,  14,  twice;  and  in  Jonah  ii,  2 
[ 3 ] the  margin  has  “ grave.”)  Of  this  more  vague  sense 
Usher  ( Works,  iii,  324)  says — “When  Sheol  is  said  to 
signify  the  grave , the  term  grave  must  be  taken  in  as 
large  a sense  as  it  is  in  our  Saviour’s  speech  (John  v, 
28),  and  in  Isa.  xxvi,  19,  according  to  the  Sept,  read- 
ing; upon  which  passage  writes  Origen  thus — ‘Here 
and  in  many  other  places  the  graves  of  the  dead  are  to 
be  understood,  not  such  only  as  we  see  are  builded  for 
the  receiving  of  men’s  bodies — either  cut  out  in  stones, 


1 or  digged  down  in  the  earth ; hut  every  place  wherein  a 
man's  body  lieth  either  entire  or  in  part  . . . otherwise 
they  which  are  not  committed  to  burial,  nor  laid  in 
graves,  hut  have  ended  their  life  in  shipwrecks,  deserts, 
and  such  like  ways,  should  not  seem  to  be  reckoned 
among  those  which  arc  said  to  be  raised  from  the  grave’ 
(In  Esai.  lib.  28  citatus  a Pamphilo,  in  ApoVf  We 
have  here,  then,  the  first  meaning  of  the  Hebrew  VlXia 
largely  applied,  as  we  have  seen,  in  our  A.  V.  to  “ the 
grave,”  considered  in  a universal  sense  (see  the  passages 
in  the  last  note),  commensurate  with  death  itself  as  to 
the  extent  of  its  signification.  (Comp.  11  the  grave  and 
gate  of  death"  of  the  English  Liturgy,  Collect  for  Eas- 
ter Even.)  Though  we  carefully  exclude  the  artificial 
grave,  or  IDp,  from  this  category,  there  is  no  doubt,  as 
bishop  Lowth  has  well  shown  (De  Sacra  Poesi  Ilebr. 
Prael.  vii  [ed.  Oxon.  with  notes  of  Michaelis  and  Rosen- 
muller,  1821],  p.  65-69),  that  the  Hebrew  poets  drew  all 
the  imagery  with  which  they  describe  the  state  and 
condition  of  the  dead  from  the  funeral  rites  and  pomp, 
and  from  the  vaulted  sepulchres  of  their  great  men. 
The  bishop’s  whole  treatment  of  the  subject  is  quite 
worth  perusal.  We  can  only  quote  his  final  remarks : 
“You  will  see  this  transcendent  imagery  better  and 
more  completely  displayed  in  that  noble  triumphal  song 
which  was  composed  by  Isaiah  (xiv,  4-27)  . . . pre- 
vious to  the  death  of  the  king  of  Babylen.  Ezekiil  has 
also  grandly  illustrated  the  same  scene,  with  similar 
machinery,  in  the  last  prophecy  concerning  the  fall  of 
Pharaoh  (xxxii,  18-32).”  For  an  excellent  vindication 
of  the  A.  V.  in  many  of  its  translations  of  the  grave , we 
referthe  reader  to  the  treatise  of  archbishop  Usher 
(Answer  to  the  Jesuit's  Challenge,  Works  [ed.  Ellington], 
iii,  319-324  and  832-340).  We  doubt  not  that,  if  grave 
is  an  admissible  sense  of  our  translators  have,  on 

the  whole,  made  a judicious  selection  of  the  passages 
that  will  best  bear  the  sense : their  purpose  was  a 
popular  one,  and  they  accomplished  it,  in  the  instance 
of  uncertain  words  and  phrases,  by  giving  them  the  most 
intelligible  turn  they  would  bear,  as  in  the  case  before  us. 
We  undertake  not  to  decide  whether  it  would  be  better 
to  leave  the  broad  and  generic  word  Sheol,  as  the  great 
versions  of  antiquity  did,  everywhere ; whether,  e.  g., 
Jacob’s  lament  (Gen.  xxxvii,  35;  xlii,  38)  and  like  pas- 
sages would  be  more  suitably,  if  not  correctly,  rendered 
by  the  simple  retention  of  the  original  word,  or  the 
equally  indefinite  hades.  There  is  some  force  in  the 
observation  often  made  (see  Corn,  a Lapide,  on  Gen. 
xxxvii,  35 ; Bellarmine  and  others,  adduced  by  Leigh, 
Crit.  Sacra,  i,  239)  that  “ it  was  not  the  grave  of  Joseph 
which  Jacob  meant,  for  he  thought  indeed  that  his  son 
was  devoured  of  wild  beasts,  and  not  buried.”  See  more 
on  this  passage  in  Pearson,  Creed  [ed.  Clievallier],  p. 
437 ; Fulke,  Translations,  etc.,  p.  3 14 ; both  which  writ- 
ers defend  the  version  of  grave.  Ainsworth  ad  loc. 
(among  the  older  commentators)  and  Knobel  (among 
the  moderns)  contend  for  the  general  word  lull  [Knobel, 
Schattenreich].  Rosenmliller  learnedly  states  both  views, 
and  leans  in  favor  of  “locum,  ubi  mortui  umbrarum  in- 
star degiint”  (Scholia,  i,  576). 

(2.)  The  other  meaning  of  V'X'd,  “Hell,"  so  rendered 
in  thirty-one  passages  of  A.  V.,  according  to  the  more 
ancient  and,  as  it  seems  to  us,  preferable  opinion,  makes 
it  local,  i.  e.  the  place  of  disembodied  spirits.  ("Athjc  ei 
ro7ro£  aeiSrjg,  t/yavv  atpavijg  nai  eiyvwoTQQ,  b roc 
-if/vxag  t)fiuiv  ivTtvSiv  eKd^povoag  Stxbfavoc,  Andr. 
Csesaricus  in  Apocal.  c.  63.)  A later  opinion  supposes 
the  word  to  indicate  “not  the  place  where  souls  depart- 
ed are,  but  the  state  and  condition  of  the  dead , or  their 
permansion  in  death,”  as  bishop  Pearson  caUs  it  (Creed 
[ed.  Chevallier],  p.  439).  On  this  opinion,  which  that 
great  divine  “cannot  admit  as  a full  or  proper  exposi- 
tion,” we  shall  say  nothing  more  than  that  it  is  at  best 
only  a deduction  from  the  foregoing  local  definition. 
That  definition  we  have  stated  in  the  broadest  terms, 
because,  in  reference  to  Dr.  Barrow’s  enumeration  (Scrm. 


HELL 


168 


HELL 


on  the  Creed  [Art.  “ He  descended  into  Ilell”],  Works 
[Oxford,  1830],  v,  416, 417)  of  the  questions  which  have 
arisen  on  the  subject  before  us,  we  believe  that  Holy 
Scripture  warrants  the  most  ample  of  all  the  positions 
suggested  by  that  eminent  writer,  to  the  effect  that  the 
Sheol  or  Hell  of  which  we  treat  is  not  merely  “the 
place  of  good  and  liappv  souls,”  or  “ that  of  bad  and  mis- 
erable ones,”  but  “indifferently  and  in  common  of  both 
those.”  We  propose  to  arrange  the  Biblical  passages  so 
as  to  describe,  first,  the  state  of  the  occupants  of  Sheol , 
and,  secondly,  the  locality  of  it , in  some  of  its  prominent 
features.  As  to  the  first  point,  Sheol  is  (a)  the  recepta- 
cle of  the  spirits  of  all  that  depart  this  life.  (Among  the 
scriptural  designations  of  the  inhabitants  of  Sheol  is 
[ “1  bnp  (in  Prov.  xxi,  16)  is  rendered  “congre- 
gation of  the  dead"  (or  departed ) in  the  A.  V.  This  is 
better  than  the  Sept,  rendering  avvayioyt)  yiyavriov, 
and  ATdg.  “ coetus  gigantum ,”  There  is  force  in  the  word 
thus  applied,  derived  from  the  use  of  the  word  to 
designate  the  great  “ congregation" of  the  Jewish  nation; 
see  Congregation].  For  the  use  of  the  word 
as  applicable  to  the  dead,  see  especially  Bottcher,  De  In- 
fer. p.  94-10,  § 193-204.  The  word  occurs  in  this  sense 
also  in  the  grand  passage  of  Isa.  xiv.  [In  ver.  9 “ Sheol 
stirs  up  its  Rephaim ” on  the  entrance  of  the  spirit  of 
the  king  of  Babylon.]  C'XST  is  met  with  in  six  other 
places  in  the  same  sense  of  departed  sjririts.  It  is  con- 
nected with  “weak,”  which  occurs  in  Numb,  xiii, 
18,  and  other  passages  [see  Fiirst,  Ilebr.  W.-b.  ii,  883]. 
The  gentile  noun  [mentioned  in  Hen.  xiv,  5 and  else- 
where, and  rendered  Rephaim  and  Giants']  is  of  the  same 
form,  but  probably  of  a different  origin  [see  Gesenius, 
Thes.  p.  1302].)  This  general  signification  appears  from 
Psa.  lxxxix,  47,  48,  and  Isa.  xxxviii,  18,  19  (in  which 
latter  verse  the  opposition  in  its  universal  sense  between 
sheol  and  the  state  of  life  in  this  world  is  to  be  observed). 
We  do  not  hesitate,  with  archbishop  Usher  ( Works,  iii, 
318),  to  translate  VlX'j  in  these  passages  11  hell"  or  11  she- 
ol" instead  of 11  grave"  as  in  the  A.  Y.  Sheol,  therefore, 
is  (b)  the  abode  of  the  wicked,  Numb,  xvi,  33 ; Job  xxiv, 
19;  Psa.  ix,  17  (flebr.  18);  xxxi,  17  (18);  Prov.  v,  5;  ix, 
18;  Isa.  lvii,  9;  and  (g)  of  the  good  [both  in  their  “dis- 
embodied” condition],  Psa.  xvi,  10,  comp,  with  Acts  ii, 
27,  31 ; Psa.  xxx,  3 (4) ; xlix,  15  (16) ; lxxxvi,  13 ; Isa. 
xxxviii,  10,  compared  with  Job  iii,  17-19;  IIos.  xiii,  14, 
comp,  with  1 Cor,  xv,  55.  With  regard  to  the  second 
point,  touching  some  local  features  of  Sheol,  we  find  it 
described  as  very  deep  (Job  xi,  8)  ; dark  (Job  x,  21,  22) ; 
(yet  confest  and  open  to  the  eye  of  God,  Job  xxvi,  6) ; 
with  “ valleys"  (Gesenius,  Thes.  p.  1348)  or  depths  of  va- 
rious gradations  (Psa.  lxxxvi,  13  [compared  with  Deut. 
xxxii,  22]  ; Prov.  ix,  18) ; with  bars  (Job  xvii,  16,  comp, 
with  Jon.  ii,  6)  and  gates  (Isa.  xxxviii,  10) ; situated  be- 
neath us;  hence  the  dead  are  said  “to  go  down”  (i-p) 
to  Sheol,  Numb,  xvi,  30, 33 ; Ezek.  xxxi,  15, 16, 17  (com- 
pared with  Job  vii,  9;  Gen.  xiii,  38).  Comp.  Josephus 
{Ant.  xvii,  1,3),  who,  when  describing  the  tenets  of  the 
Jewish  sects,  attributes  to  the  Pharisees  the  belief  of  a 
future  state,  in  which  “ rewards  and  punishments”  will 
be  dealt  out  “ to  men  in  their  disembodied  state”  {raXg 
'4/vXai£)f  under  the  earth”  {otto  yj&ovbg  lucaubaeig  re 
Kai  Tigctg,  k.  t.  X.).  On  the  phrase  of  the  creed  “ de- 
scended into  hell,”  and  sundry  uses  of  and  KartkStiv 
as  not  necessarily  implying  local  descent , but  rather  “ re- 
moval from  one  place  to  another,”  see  Usher  ( Works,  iii, 
392,  393).  We  have  seen  how  some  have  derived  the 
name  of  Sheol  from  its  insatiability;  such  a quality  is 
often  attributed  to  it : it  is  all-devouring  (Prov.  i,  12) ; 
never  satisfied  (Prov.  xxx,  16 ; Isa.  v,  14),  and  inexorable 
(Cant,  viii,  7). 

2.  There  is  in  the  Hades  ('Aiopij  of  the  N.  T.  an  equal- 
ly ample  signification  with  the  Sheol  of  the  O.  T.,  as  the 
abode  of  both  happy  and  miserable  beings.  Its  charac- 
teristics are  not  dissimilar ; it  is  represented  as  “ a pris- 


on" (comp.  1 Pet.  iii,  19,  where  inhabitants  of  hades  are 
called  n't  tv  tyvXaKtj  ^ rveopara)  •,  with  gates  and  bars 
( 7rv\ai  acov,  Matt,  xvi,  18 ; comp,  with  the  phrase  tig 
"Acov  of  Acts  ii,  27, 31,  with  the  ellipsis  of  dujpa  or  ot- 
icov);  and  locks  (the  “keys”  of  Hades,  cti  kXtig  tov"Ai- 
( W,  being  in  the  hands  of  Christ,  Iiev.  i,  18) ; its  situa- 
tion is  also  downwards  (see  the  aoe  acov  icaTafSifiao- 
3 )}rjy  of  Matt,  xi,  23,  and  Luke  x,  15).  As  might  be  ex- 
pected, there  is  more  plainly  indicated  in  the  N.  T.  the 
separate  condition  of  the  righteous  and  the  wicked ; to 
indicate  this  separation  other  terms  are  used;  thus,  in 
Luke  xxiii,  43,  Paradise  {irapciciuoog — no  doubt  differ- 
ent from  that  of  Paid,  2 Cor.  xii,  4,  which  is  designated, 
in  Rev.  ii,  7,  as  o -Kapadtarog  tov  Qeov,  the  supernal 
Paradise ; see  Robinson,  Lexicon,  N.  T.,  p.  13, 547 ; Wahl, 
Claris,  N.  T.,  p.  376;  Kuinbl  [ed.  London]  on  N.  T.  ii, 
237 ; and  especially  Meyer,  Kommentar  u.  d.  Neue  Test. 
[ed.  4]  vi,  292,  and  the  authorities  there  quoted  by  him) 
is  used  to  describe  that  part  of  Hades  which  the  blessed 
dead  inhabit — a figurative  expression,  so  well  adapted 
for  the  description  of  a locality  of  happiness  that  the 
inspired  writers  employ  it  to  describe  the  three  happiest 
places,  the  Eden  of  Innocence,  the  Hades  of  departed 
saints,  and  the  heaven  of  their  glorious  rest.  The  dis- 
tinction between  the  upper  and  the  lower  Paradise  was 
familiar  to  the  Jews.  In  Eisenmenger’s  Entdecktes  Ju- 
denthum,  ii,  295-322,  much  of  their  curious  opinions  on 
the  subject  is  collected.  In  p.  298  are  given  the  seven 
names  of  the  heavenly  Paradise,  while  in  the  next  three 
are  contained  the  seven  names  of  the  lower  Paradise  of 
Hades.  See  Paradise. 

Another  figurative  expression  used  to  designate  the 
happy  part  of  Hades  is  “Abraham’s  bosom,”  b KoXirog 
’Ajipaap,  Luke  xvi, 22.  (St.  Augustine,  who  savs  [Qucest. 
Erang. ii, 38 ] “Sinus  Abrahae  requies  estbeatorum  pau- 
perum  ....  in  quo  post  lianc  vitam  recipiuntnr,”  yet 
doubts  whether  hades  is  used  at  all  in  N.  T.  in  a good 
sense.  He  says  [ Ep.  clxxxvii,  IFor&s,  ii,  689],  “ Wheth- 
er the  bosom  of  A bra  ham,  where  the  wicked  Dives  was, 
when  in  his  torment  he  beheld  the  poor  man  at  rest, 
were  either  to  be  deemed  the  same  as  Paradise,  or  to  be 
thought  to  pertain  to  hell  or  hades,  I cannot  define  [non 
facile  dixerim] ;”  so  also  he  writes  on  Psa.  Ixxxv  [ IForfe, 
iv,  912]).  For  an  explanation  of  the  phrase,  see  Abra- 
ham’s Bosom. 

3.  We  need  not  linger  over  the  Biblical  sense  of  our 
last  word  Tievva,  Gehenna.  We  refer  the  reader  to  a 
“ Discourse”  by  the  learned  Joseph  Mede  (IPor&s,  p.Bl- 
33)  on  Gehenna,  which  he  shows  was  not  used  to* desig- 
nate “ hell”  before  the  captivity.  He,  iu  the  same  trea- 
tise, dwells  on  certain  Hebrew  words  and  phrases,  which 
were  in  use  previous  to  that  epoch  for  designating  Hades 
and  its  inhabitants — among  these  he  especially  notes 
and  1 bnp,  on  which  we  have  observed  above. 
As  n apdciarog  is  not  limited  to  the  finite  happiness  of 
Hades,  but  embraces  in  certain  passages  the  idtimate 
blessedness  of  heaven,  so  there  is  no  violence  in  sup- 
posing that  Ykevva  (from  the  finite  signification  which 
it  possibly  bears  in  Matt,  v,  29,30;  xxiii,  15,  equivalent 
to  the  T ctprapog  referred  to  by  Peter,  2 Epist.  ii,  4,  as 
the  place  where  the  fallen  angels  are  reserved  unto  judg- 
ment, or  “until  sentence,”  comp.  Jude  v,  6)  goes  on  to 
mean,  in  perhaps  most  of  its  occurrences  in  the  N.  T.,  the 
final  condition  of  the  lost,  as  in  Matt,  xxiii,  33,  where 
the  expression  i)  icpimg  rijg  yt'tvvpg  probably  means  the 
condenmation  [or  sentence]  to  Gehenna  as  the  idtimate 
doom.  See  Gehenna. 

IV.  Synonymous  Words  and  Phrases. — (Most  of  these 
are  given  by  Eiscnmenger,  Entdeck.  Jud.  ii,  324,  and  Gal- 
atinus,  De  Arcanis,  vi,  7,  p.  345.)  1.  Dumdh,  in 

Psa.  cxv,  17,  where  the  phrase  ^ “ all  that  go 

down  into  silence,”  is  in  the  Sept,  iruvreg  ot  tcarafiai- 
vovreg  tig  qcov,  while  the  Vulg.  has  llomnes  qni  descen- 
dant in  inferum ” (comp.  Psa.  xciv,  17).  2.  A bad- 

don,  in  Job  xxvi,  6,  is  in  poetical  apposition  with  VlXlli 


HELL 


169 


HELL 


(comp.  Prov.  xxvii,  20  [Kethib],  where  !S»  is  in  conjunc- 
tion with  12,  forming  an  hendiadys  fur  destructive  hell; 
Sept/'A  idijQKCii  ('nruj\eia ; Yulg.  Inf  emus  etperditio;  A. 
Y.  “Hell  and  destruction”).  3.  r.H'j  “S3,  Beer  Sha- 
chotk,  Psa.  lv,  24 ; A.  Y.  “ pit  of  destruction Sept.  pi- 
op  dicopSopag ; Yulg.  Puteus  interitus  (see  also  passages 
in  which  “12  and  PiITJ  occur  separately).  4. 
Tsalmaveth,  with  or  without  Ti'iTI,  in  Psa.  evii,  10,  and 
other  passages ; Sept.  'S.Kia  Savcirov ; Yulg.  Umbra  mor- 
tis ; A.  Y.  “ shadow  of  death.”  5.  ■)*“^“r;"nnn,  Tuch- 
tiyotli  Brets , in  Isa.  xliv,  23;  A.Y.  “lower  parts  of  the 
earth”  \_Sheol  or  IFades,  Gesen.]  ; Sept.  Td  SepiXta  ryg 
yijg  ; Yulg.  Extrema  terra;  (comp.  Ezek.  xxvi,  20,  etc., 
where  the  phrase  is  inverted,  ri’irnrr‘|*“X) ; of  simi- 
lar meaning  is  PYPnri  "13,  Psa.  lxxxviii,  6 (7).  6. 

nnsn,  Tophteh , in  Isa.  xxx,  33  [according  to  Eisen- 
menger] ; for  another  application  of  this  word,  see  Ge- 
senius,  Thes.  s.  v. ; and  Roseumiiller,  ad  loc.  7.  The 
phrase  first  used  of  Abraham,  Gen.  xxv,  8 (where  it  oc- 
curs, in  the  solemn  description  of  the  holy  patriarch’s 
end,  midway  between  death  and  buried ),  “lie  was  gath- 
ered to  his  fathers,”  is  best  interpreted  of  the  departure 
of  the  soul  to  Hades  to  the  company  of  those  who  pre- 
ceded him  thither  (see  Cajetan,  ad  loc.,  and  Gesen.  Thes., 
s.  v.  CjPX  [Niplial],  p.  131,  col.  1).  8.  To  (tko rot;  to  iJZ- 

mrepov,  “the  outer  darkness”  of  Matt,  viii,  12,  et  pas- 
sim, refers  probably  to  what  Josephus  ( War,  iii,  25)  calks 
ij.1 h)Q  aKOTimTepog,  “the  darker  Hades.” 

Y.  Biblical  Statements  as  to  the  Condition  of  those  in 
“ J/elf." — The  dreadful  nature  of  the  abode  of  the  wick- 
ed is  implied  in  various  figurative  expressions,  such  as 
“outer  darkness,”  “I  am  tormented  in  this  flame,”  “fur- 
nace of  fire,”  “unquenchable  fire,”  “where  the  worm 
clieth  not,”  “ the  blackness  of  darkness,”  “ torment  in  fire 
and  brimstone,”  “ the  ascending  smoke  of  their  torment,” 
“the  lake  of  fire  that  burneth  with  brimstone”  (Matt, 
viii,  12 ; xiii,  42 ; xxii,  13 ; xxv,  30 ; Luke  xvi,  24 ; comp. 
Matt,  xxv,  41;  3 lark  ix,  43-48;  Jude  13;  comp.  Rev. 
xiv,  10,  11;  xix,  20;  xx,  14;  xxi,  8).  The  figure  by 
which  hell  is  represented  as  burning  with  fire  and  brim- 
stone is  probably  derived  from  the  fate  of  Sodom  and 
Gomorrah,  as  well  as  that  which  describes  the  smoke  as 
ascending  from  it  (comp.  Rev.  xiv,  10, 1 1 , with  Gen.  xix, 
24,  28).  To  this  coincidence  of  description  Peter  also 
most  probably  alludes  in  2 Pet.  ii,  6.  See  Fire. 

The  names  which  in  many  of  the  other  instances  are 
given  to  the  punishments  of  hell  are  doubtless  in  part  fig- 
urative, and  many  of  the  terms  which  were  commonly  ap- 
plied to  the  subject  by  the  Jews  are  retained  in  the  New 
Testament.  The  images,  it  will  be  seen,  are  generally 
taken  from  death,  capital  punishments,  tortures,  prisons, 
etc.  And  it  is  the  obvious  design  of  the  sacred  writers, 
in  using  such  figures,  to  awaken  the  idea  of  something 
terrible  and  fearful.  They  mean  to  teach  that  the  pun- 
ishments beyond  the  grave  will  excite  the  same  feelings 
of  distress  as  are  produced  on  earth  by  the  objects  em- 
ployed to  represent  them.  We  are  so  little  acquainted 
with  the  state  in  which  we  shall  be  hereafter,  and  with 
the  nature  of  our  future  body,  that  no  strictly  literal 
representation  of  such  punishments  could  be  made  intel- 
ligible to  us.  Many  of  the  Jews,  indeed,  and  many  of 
the  Christian  fathers,  took  the  terms  employed  in  Scrip- 
ture in  an  entirely  literal  sense,  and  supposed  there 
would  be  actual  fire,  etc.,  in  hell.  But  from  the  words 
of  Christ  and  his  apostles  nothing  more  can  with  cer- 
tainty be  inferred  than  that  they  meant  to  denote  great 
and  unending  miseries. 

The  punishments  of  sin  may  be  distinguished  into 
two  classes:  1.  Natural  punishments,  or  such  as  neces- 
sarily follow  a fife  of  servitude  to  sin.  2.  Positive  pun- 
ishments, or  such  as  God  shall  see  fit,  by  his  sovereign 
will,  to  inflict. 

1.  Among  the  natural  punishments  we  may  rank  the 
privation  of  eternal  happiness  (Matt,  vii,  21,  23;  xxii, 


13;  xxv,  41 ; compare  2 Thess.  1,9);  the  painful  sensa- 
tions which  are  the  natural  consequence  of  committing 
sin,  and  of  an  impenitent  heart;  the  propensities  to  sin, 
the  evil  passions  and  desires  which  in  this  world  fill  the 
human  heart,  and  which  are  doubtless  carried  into  the 
world  to  come.  The  company  of  fellow-sinners  and  of 
evil  spirits,  as  inevitably  resulting  from  the  other  con- 
ditions, may  be  accounted  among  the  natural  punish- 
ments, and  must  prove  not  the  least  grievous  of  them. 

2.  The  positive  punishments  have  already  been  indi- 
cated. It  is  to  these  chiefly  that  the  Scripture  direefs 
our  attention.  “There  are  but  few  men  in  such  a state 
that  the  merely  natural  punishments  of  sin  will  appear 
to  them  terrible  enough  to  deter  them  from  the  com- 
mission of  it.  Experience  also  shows  that  to  threaten 
positive  punishment  has  far  more  effect,  as  well  upon 
the  cultivated  as  the  uncultivated,  in  deterring  them 
from  crime,  than  to  announce,  and  lead  men  to  expect, 
the  merely  natural  consequences  of  sin,  be  they  ever  so 
terrible.  Hence  we  may  see  why  it  is  that  the  New 
Testament  says  so  little  of  natural  punishments  (al- 
though these,  beyond  question,  await  the  wicked),  and 
makes  mention  of  them  in  particular  far  less  frequently 
than  of  positive  punishments;  and  why,  in  those  pas- 
sages which  treat  of  the  punishments  of  hell,  such  ideas 
and  images  are  constantly  employed  as  suggest  and  con- 
firm the  idea  of  positive  punishments”  (Knapp’s  Chris- 
tian Theology,  § 156). 

As  the  sins  which  shut  out  from  heaven  vary  so 
greatly  in  quality  and  degree,  we  should  expect  from 
the  justice  of  God  a corresponding  variety  both  in  the 
natural  and  the  positive  punishments.  This  is  accord- 
ingly the  uniform  doctrine  of  Christ  and  his  apostles. 
The  more  knowledge  of  the  divine  law  a man  possesses, 
the  more  his  opportunities  and  inducements  to  avoid 
sin,  the  stronger  the  incentives  to  faith  and  holiness  set 
before  him,  the  greater  will  be  his  punishment  if  he 
fails  to  make  a faithful  use  of  these  advantages.  “ The 
servant  who  knows  his  lord’s  will  and  does  it  not,  de- 
serves to  be  beaten  with  many  stripes:”  “To  whom 
much  is  given,  of  him  much  will  be  required”  (Matt,  x, 
15;  xi,  22,  24;  xxiii,  15;  Luke  xii,  48),  Hence  Paul 
says  that  the  heathen  who  acted  against  the  law  of  na- 
ture would  indeed  be  punished ; but  that  the  Jews  would 
be  punished  more  than  they,  because  the}’  had  more 
knowledge  (Rom.  ii,  9-29).  In  this  conviction  that  God 
will,  even  in  hell,  justly  proportion  punishment  to  sin, 
we  must  rest  satisfied.  We  cannot  now  know  more; 
the  precise  degrees,  as  well  as  the  precise  nature  of  such 
punishments,  are  things  belonging  to  another  state  of 
being,  which  in  the  present  we  are  unable  to  understand. 
— Kitto,  s.  v.  For  a naturalistic  view  of  the  subject, 
with  a copious  review  of  the  literature,  see  Alger,  Doc- 
trine of  a Future  Life  (Bost.  1860).  For  the  theological 
treatment  of  this  topic,  see  Hell  Punishments. 

HELL,  Christ’s  descent  into  (descensus  ad  infe- 
ros; Kareijiaoiq  eig  ucov~),  a phrase  used  to  denote  the 
doctrine  taught,  or  supposed  to  be  taught,  in  the  fifth 
article  of  the  Apostles’  Creed. 

1.  Histoiy  of  the  Clause. — The  clause  is  not  found  in 
the  Nicreno-Constantinopolitan  Creed  (A.D.  F.81),  nor  in 
any  creed  before  that  date.  Pearson  states  that  it  was 
not  “so  anciently  used  in  the  Church”  as  the  rest  of  the 
Apostles’  Creed;  and  that  it  first  appears  in  the  Creed 
of  Aquileia,  4th  century,  in  the  words  d(  scant  it  in  in- 
ferno. King,  in  his  Histor.  Symbol.  A post.  c.  iv,  asserts 
that  it  was  inserted  as  a testimony  against  Apollina- 
rism;  but  this  view  is  controverted  by  Waage  in  his 
Commentatio  on  this  article  of  the  Creed  (1836).  It  is 
certain,  however,  that  the  clause  was  afterwards  used 
by  the  orthodox  as  an  argument  against  the  Apollina- 
rian  heresy  which  denied  to  Christ  a rational  human 
soul  (see  Neander,  Church  History , Torrey’s  ed.,  ii,  433). 
Rufinus  (f  410),  while  stating  that  it  is  found  in  the 
Creed  of  Aquileia,  denies  that  it  existed  before  that 
time  in  the  Creed  as  used  in  the  Roman  or  Eastern 
churches.  Rufinus  adds  that  “ though  the  Roman  and 


HELL  ' 


170 


HELL 


Oriental  churches  had  not  the  words,  yet  they  had  the 
sense  of  them  in  the  word  buried,"  implying  that  the 
words  “ he  descended  into  Hades”  are  equivalent  to  *•  he 
descended  into  the  grave.”  Socrates,  Hist.  Eccl.  ii,  37, 
41,  gives  it  as  stated  in  the  Arian  Creed  adopted  at  Sir- 
mium  A.D.  350,  and  at  Bimini  in  300.  It  is  given  in  the 
Athanasian  Creed  (5th  century).  It  fails  to  be  found, 
except  in  the  Athanasian  Creed  and  in  a few  MSS., 
before  the  6th  century,  but  became  quite  common  in 
the  7th,  and  is  universal  after  the  8th  century  (Pear- 
son, On  the  Creed , art.  v,  notes).  It  remains  iu  the  Apos- 
tles’ Creed  as  used  in  the  Greek  and  Homan  churches, 
the  Lutheran  Church,  and  the  Church  of  England.  It 
is  also  retained  in  the  Creed  as  used  by  the  Protestant 
Episcopal  Church,  with  a note  in  the  rubric  that  “ any 
churches  may  omit  the  words  lie  descended  into  hell,  or 
may,  instead  of  them,  use  the  words  lie  went  into  the 
place  of  departed  spirits,  which  are  considered  as  words 
of  the  same  meaning  in  the  Creed.”  The  clause  was 
omitted  by  the  Convention  of  1785,  but,  the  English 
bishops  objecting,  it  was  replaced,  with  the  qualification 
named,  after  a great  deal  of  discussion  in  1780, 1789,  and 
1792  (see  White,  Hist,  of  the  Prot.  Episcopal  Church; 
Muenscher,  in  Bib.  Sac.  April,  1859).  It  is  omitted  in 
the  Creed  as  used  by  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church. 

II.  The  Doctrine. — 1.  Scripture. — There  is  no  passage 
in  which  it  is  expressly  stated  that  Christ  descended 
into  hell,  but  there  are  several  which  express  or  im- 
ply that  his  sotd  went,  after  his  death,  into  the  “ place 
of  departed  spirits.”  (I.)  Thus  David  says  (Psa.  xvi,  9,  , 
10) : “ Therefore  my  heart  is  glad,  and  my  glory  rejoic- 
eth:  my  flesh  also  shall  rest  in  hope.  Eor  thou  wilt  not 
leave  my  soul  in  hell,  neither  wilt  thou  su  ffer  thine  Holy 
One  to  see  corruption .”  And  Peter  applies  this  passage 
to  Christ  (Acts  ii,  25-27) : “ For  David  speuketh  con- 
cerning him,  l foresaw  the  Lord  always  before  my  face ; 
for  he  is  on  my  right  hand,  that  1 should  not  be  moved: 
therefore  did  my  heart  rejoice,  and  my  tongue  was  glad; 
moreover  also  my  flesh  shall  rest  in  hope : because  thou 
wilt  not  leave  my  soul  in  hell , neither  wilt  thou  sa  fer  thine 
Holy  One  to  see  corruption."  (2.)  The  passage  in  Ephes. 
i v,  8-10  (“  Xow  that  he  ascended,"  etc.),  is  supposed  by 
some  writers  to  imply  the  descent  into  Hades,  but  the 
best  interpreters  apply  it  to  the  Incarnation.  (3.)  Paul, 
in  Rom.  x,  7 (“  Who  shall  descend  into  the  deep,"  etc. — 
t'iq  tcara^ijatTai  elg  r>)v  afivaaov),  seems  to  imply  a 
descent  of  Christ  “into  the  abyss.”  (4.)  1 Pet.  iii,  *18- 
20:  “ For  Christ  also  hath  once  suffered  for  sins , the  just 
for  the  unjust,  that  he  might  bring  us  to  God,  being  pul  to 
death  in  the  flesh,  but  quickened  by  the  Spirit:  by  which 
also  he  went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits  in  prison ; 
udiich  sometime  were  disobedient,  when  once  the  long-suf- 
fering of  God  waited  in  the  days  of  Xoah,  while  the  ark 
was  a preparing,  wherein  few,  that  is,  eight  souls  were 
saved  by  water."  This  passage  is  relied  on  by  many, 
not  only  as  strongly  asserting  that  Christ  descended 
into  Hades,  but  also  as  explaining  the  object  of  that 
descent.  But  the  weight  of  interpretation,  from  Au- 
gustine downwards,  seems  to  be  against  this  view.  Dr. 
A.  Schweitzer,  in  a recent  monograph  ( llinabgefuhren 
2.  llolle  als  Mythus,  etc.,  Zurich,  1868,  p.  49),  interprets 
the  passage  to  mean  that  the  preaching  spoken  of  was 
“ addressed  to  ‘ the  spirits  in  prison’  in  the  days  of  Noah, 
while  they  were  yet  in  the  flesh;  and  this  preaching 
consisted,  to  a great  extent,  in  the  building  of  the  ark.  1 
By  this  work,  undertaken  at  the  command  of  the  Spirit  ] 
of  Christ,  and  prosecuted,  through  many  years,  to  com- 
pletion in  the  sight  of  the  people,  they  were  warned  to  : 
repent;  hut  the  people  persisted  iu  disobedience,  and  at  j 
last  the  flood  swept  them  away”  ( Baptist  Quarterly  Be-  ' 
view,  July,  1869,  p.  384).  This  view  accords  with  that 
held  by  Augustine,  Aquinas,  Scaliger,  Beza,  Gerhard. 
Hammond,  Leighton,  and  others,  and  which  has  of  late 
been  readopted  by  Dr.  Hofmann  ( Schriftbeweis , II,  i, 
335),  of  the  influence  of  the  pre-existent  Spirit  of  Christ 
at  the  time  of  the  Deluge.  It  is  also  the  interpretation  1 
of  the  passage  given  by  Dr.  A.  Clarke  (Comm,  on  1 Pe-  J 


ter).  So  also  Dr.  Bethune  : “ Christ,  in  Noah,  by  his 
Spirit,  preached  to  them  before  the  Flood,  just  as  in  his 
ministers  be  preaches  to  us  by  his  Spirit  now”  ( Lectures 
on  the  Heidelberg  Catechism,  i,  406).  Alford  ( Comment . 
ad  loc.)  gives  a copious  account  (chiefly  translated  from 
Meyer)  of  the  views  of  various  commentators,  ancient 
and  modem,  on  the  passage,  and  subjoins  his  own  view, 
as  follows : I understand  these  words  to  say  that  our 
Lord,  in  his  disembodied  state,  did  go  to  the  place  of 
detention  of  departed  spirits,  and  did  there  announce  his 
work  of  redemption,  preach  salvation,  in  fact,  to  the  dis- 
embodied spirits  of  those  who  refused  to  obey  the  voice 
of  God  when  the  judgment  of  the  Flood  was  hanging 
over  them.  Why  these  rather  than  others  are  men- 
tioned— whether  merely  as  a sample  of  the  like  gracious 
work  on  others,  or  for  some  special  reason  unimaginable 
by  us — we  cannot  say.  It  is  ours  to  deal  with  the  plain 
words  of  Scripture,  and  to  accept  its  revelations  so  far 
as  vouchsafed  to  us.  And  they  are  vouchsafed  to  us  to 
the  utmost  limit  of  legitimate  inference  from  revealed 
facts.  That  inference  every  intelligent  reader  will  draw 
from  the  fact  here  announced ; it  is  not  purgatory,  it  is 
not  universal  restitution,  but  it  is  one  which  throws 
blessed  light  on  one  of  the  darkest  enigmas  of  the  divine 
justice — the  cases  where  the  final  doom  seems  infinitely 
out  of  proportion  to  the  lapse  which  has  incurred  it; 
and  as  we  cannot  say  to  what  other  cases  this  Ki)pvyfut 
may  have  applied,  so  it  would  be  presumption  in  us  to 
limit  its  occurrence  or  its  efficacy.  The  reason  of  men- 
tioning here  these  sinners  above  other  sinners  appears 
to  be  their  connection  with  the  type  of  baptism  which 
follows.  If  so,  who  shall  say  that  the  blessed  act  was 
confined  to  them  ?”  (Comm,  on  X.  T.  vol.  iv,  pt.  i,  p.  368). 

2.  The  Fathers. — In  several  of  the  Ante-Nicene  fa- 
thers we  find  the  doctrine  that  “ Christ  descended  into 
Hades  to  announce  to  the  souls  of  the  patriarchs  and 
others  there  the  accomplishment  of  the  work  of  redemp- 
tion, and  to  conduct  them  to  his  kingdom  of  glory.” 
So  Justin  Martyr  (f  167?),  Dial,  cum  Tryph.  § 72,  cites 
a passage  from  Jeremiah  (cut  out,  he  says,  by  the  Jews) 
as  follows : 11  The  Lord  God  remembered  bis  dead  peo- 
ple of  Israel  who  lay  in  the  graves;  and  he  descended 
to  preach  to  them  his  own  salvation.”  Irena2us  (f200?), 
A dv.  liar,  iv,  27,  2 : “ The  Lord  descended  into  the  re- 
gions beneath  the  earth,  preaching  his  advent  there 
also,  and  declaring  the  remission  of  sins  received  by 
those  who  believe  on  him”  (see  also  v,  31,  2).  Clement 
of  Alexandria  (f  220)  devotes  chap,  vi  of  book  vi  of  the 
Stromata  to  the  “preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  Jews  and 
Gentiles  in  Hades.”  See  also  Tcrtullian,  De  A nima,  vii, 
lv;  Origen,  Coni.  Cels,  ii,  43.  The  Gnostics  generally 
denied  the  descensus  ad  inferos ; but  Marcion  (2d  cen- 
tury) regarded  it  as  intended  to  benefit  the  heathen  who 
were  in  need  of  redemption.  The  later  fathers  were 
still  more  distinct  in  their  utterances;  see  Cyril,  Catech. 
iv,  11 ; xiv,  19;  Ambrose,  De  Jncarn.  37, 42;  Augustine, 
Epist.  clxiv  et  ah;  Jerome,  Epist.  xxii  et  al.  “The. 
later  fathers  generally  adopted  the  notion  that,  till 
Christ’s  death,  the  patriarchs  and  prophets  were  in  Ha- 
des, but  afterwards  (from  the  time  that  Christ  said  to 
the  thief  on  the  cross  that  he  shoidd  be  with  him  in 
Paradise)  they  passed  into  Paradise,  which,  therefore, 
they  distinguished  from  Hades.  Hades,  indeed,  they 
looked  on  as  a place  of  rest  to  the  just,  but  Paradise  as 
far  better.  Here,  of  course,  we  begin  to  perceive  the 
germ  of  the  doctrine  of  the  Limbus  Patrum.  Yet  the 
notion  entertained  by  the  fathers  was  vastly  different 
from  that  of  the  mediaeval  Church.  Another  opinion, 
however,  grew  up  also  in  the  early  ages,  namely,  that 
Christ  not  only  translated  the  pious  from  Hades  to  more 
joyous  abodes,  but  that  even  some  of  those  who  in  old 
times  had  been  disobedient,  yet,  on  hearing  Christ’s 
preaching,  believed,  and  so  were  saved  and  delivered 
from  torment  and  hell.  This  appears  to  have  been  the 
opinion  of  Augustine.  He  was  evidently  puzzled  as  to 
the  meaning  of  the  word  Hades,  and  doubted  whether 
it  over  meant  a place  of  rest  and  happiness  (although  at 


HELL 


171 


HELL 


times  he  appears  to  have  admitted  that  it  did) ; and, 
thinking  it  a place  of  torment,  he  thought  Christ  went 
thither  to  save  some  souls,  which  were  in  torment,  from 
thence.  Some,  indeed,  went  so  far  as  to  think  that  hell 
was  cleared  of  all  souls  that  were  there  in  torment,  and 
that  all  were  taken  up  with  Christ  when  he  rose  from 
the  dead  and  ascended  into  heaven ; but  this  was  reck- 
oned as  a heresy.  . . . One  principal  reason  why  the  fa- 
thers laid  great  stress  on  the  belief  in  Christ’s  descent 
to  Hades  was  this.  The  Arians  and  Apollinarians  de- 
nied the  existence  of  a natural  human  soul  in  Jesus 
Christ.  Now  the  true  doctrine  of  our  Lord’s  humanity, 
namely,  that  ‘ he  was  perfect  man,  of  a reasonable  soul 
and  human  flesh  subsisting,’  was  mest  strongly  main- 
tained by  asserting  the  article  of  his  descent  to  Hades. 
For  whereas  his  body  was  laid  in  the  grave,  and  his 
sold  went  down  to  Hades,  he  must  have  had  both  body 
and  soul.  Accordingly,  the  fathers  with  one  consent 
maintain  the  descent  of  Christ’s  soul  to  hell”  (Browne, 
On  the  Thirty-nine  A rticles,  p.  93).  Nevertheless,  it  was 
not  opposition  to  Apollinarism  that  originally  led  to  the 
adoption  of  the  clause  into  the  Creed ; the  Gnostics,  long 
before,  had  denied  the  descensus  ad  inferos,  but  Apolli- 
naris  did  not  deny  it  (Neander,  Ch.  Hist.,  Torrcy,  ii,  433). 

In  what  may  be  called  the  mythology  of  Christen- 
dom, the  “ descent  into  hell”  has  always  played  an  im- 
portant part.  The  apocryphal  Gospel  of  Nicodemus  con- 
tains a vivid  description  of  it,  very  highly  colored.  A 
voice  like  thunder  is  heard  crying,  “Lift  up  your  gates, 
and  be  ye  lift  up,”  etc.  But  the  gates  were  made  fast, 
but  on  a repetition  of  the  call  were  opened,  “and  the  King 
of  glory  entered,  in  form  as  a man,  and  all  the  dark 
places  of  Hades  were  lighted  up.”  “ And  straight-way 
Hades  cried  out  (eh.  xxii),  ‘ We  are  conquered.  Woe 
unto  us ! But  who  art  thou,  that  hast  such  power  and 
privilege  ? And  what  art  thou,  that  comest  hither  with- 
out sin,  small  in  seeming  but  excellent  in  power,  the 
humble  and  the  great,  slave  at  once  and  master,  soldier 
and  king,  wielding  power  over  the  dead  and  the  living, 
nailed  to  the  cross,  and  the  destroyer  of  our  power? 
Truly  thou  art  the  Jesus  of  whom  the  archsatrap  Satan 
spake  to  us,  that  by  thy  cross  and  death  thou  sliouldcst. 
purchase  the  universe!’  Then  the  King  of  Glory,  hold- 
ing Satan  by  the  head,  delivered  him  to  the  angels,  and 
said,  ‘ Bind  his  hands  and  feet,  and  neck  and  mouth, 
with  irons.’  And  giving  him  over  to  Hades,  he  said, 
‘Keceive  and  hold  him  surely  until  my  second  advent’ 
(ch.  xxiv).  Then  the  King  of  Glory  stretched  out  his 
right  hand,  and  took  the  forefather  Adam,  and  raised 
him  up,  and  turning  to  the  rest  also,  he  said,  ‘ Come  with 
me,  all  of  you,  as  many  as  have  died  by  the  wood  which 
this  man  ate  of;  for  lo!  I upraise  ye  all  by  the  wood  of 
the  cross!’  After  these  things  he  brought  them  all 
forth.  And  the  forefather  Adam,  tilled  with  exceeding 
joy,  said,  ‘ I render  thee  thanks,  O Lord,  that  thou  hast 
brought  me  up  from  the  depths  of  Hades.’  Thus,  too, 
said  all  the  prophets  and  saints:  ‘We  thank  thee,  O 
Christ,  Saviour  of  the  world,  that  thou  hast  redeemed 
our  life  from  corruption.’  And  while  they  were  saying 
these  things,  the  Saviour  blessed  Adam  in  the  forehead 
with  the  sign  of  the  cross,  and  did  the  like  to  the  patri- 
archs and  the  prophets,  and  the  martyrs  and  forefathers, 
and  taking  them  with  him,  he  rose  up  out  of  Hades. 
And  as  he  journeyed,  the  holy  fathers,  accompanying 
him,  sang,  ‘Praised  be  he  who  hath  come  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord.  Hallelujah  !’  ” (Thilo,  Cod.  Apocryph.  i,  (567 
sq. ; Forbes,  On  the  Thirty-nine  A rticles,  i,  52  sq.)  A dra- 
matic representation  of  the  “ descent  into  hell,”  in  imi- 
tation of  the  above  picture  in  Nicodemus,  is  given  in  the 
discourse  De  Adrentu  et  annunciatione  Joannis  Bapt.ap. 
Inferos,  commonly  ascribed  to  Eusebius  of  Emesa  (fc. 
360) ; see  Augusti’s  edition  of  Eusebius  of  Emesa,  p.  1 
sq.  (Hagenbacli,  / list,  of  Doctrines,  § 134). 

3.  Middle  A ge. — These  images  took  possession  of  the 
popular  mind,  and  were  even  held  as  true  pictures  by 
many  of  the  clergy.  In  the  mediaeval  mysteries,  the 
H harrowing  of  hell”  was  one  of  the  most  popular  repre- 


sentations. Death  and  hell  were  pictured  as  dismayed 
at  the  loss  of  their  victims,  as  Christ  was  to  set  all  the 
captives  free.  So  the  Vision  of  Piers  Plowman  declares 
that  Christ 

“Would  come  as  a Kynge, 

Crouned  with  aungels, 

And  have  out  of  hellc 
Alle  mennes  soules.” 

The  subject  was  also  a favorite  one  in  the  religious  art 
of  the  14th  and  15tli  centuries. 

The  scholastic  divines  divided  Hell  into  three  differ- 
ent apartments:  “1.  Hell,  properly  so  called, where  the 
devils  and  the  damned  are  confined ; 2.  Those  subterra- 
nean regions  which  may  be  regarded  as  the  intermedi- 
ate states  between  heaven  and  hell,  and  be  again  subdi- 
vided into  (a.)  Purgatory,  which  lies  nearest  to  hell ; 
(b.)  The  limbus  infantum  (puerorum),  where  all  those 
children  remain  who  die  unbaptized;  (r.)  The  limbus 
patrum,  the  abode  of  the  Old  Testament  saints,  the  place 
to  which  Christ  went  to  preach  redemption  to  the  souls 
in  prison.  The  limbus  last  mentioned  was  also  called 
Abraham’s  bosom ; different  opinions  obtained  concern- 
ing its  relation  to  heaven  and  hell”  (Hagenbacli,  Hist, 
of  Doctrines,  § 208).  Aquinas  taught  that  Christ  res- 
cued the  souls  of  the  pious  of  the  old  dispensation  from 
the  limbus  patrum  ( Summa  Suppl.  qu.  09,  art.  5). 

4.  J\Iodern. — (1.)  The  Greek  Church  holds  that  the  de- 
scensus was  a voluntary  going  down  into  Hades  of  the 
human  soul  of  Christ  united  to  his  divinity;  that  he  re- 
mained there  during  the  period  between  his  death  and 
liis  resurrection,  and  devoted  himself  to  the  work  he  had 
performed  on  earth  : i.  e.  that  he  offered  redemption  and 
preached  the  Gospel  to  those  who  were  subject  to  Sa- 
tan’s power  in  consequence  of  original  sin,  releasing  all 
believers,  and  all  who  died  in  piety  under  the  O.  T.  dis- 
pensation, from  Hades  (Conf.  Orthod.  i,  49,  ed.  Kimmel, 
1840,  p.  118). 

(2.)  The  Roman  Church  rests  its  doctrine  in  tradition 
alone.  It  teaches  that  Christ,  in  his  entire  personality, 
including  his  divine  and  human  natures,  descended  vol- 
untarily, for  the  sake  of  the  saints  of  Israel,  into  the  lim- 
bus patrum,  or  into  the  ignus  jmrgatorius  (fire  of  purga- 
tory), and  there  demonstrated  himself  Son  of  God  by 
conquering  the  diemons,  and  by  granting  to  the  souls  of 
the  ancients  who  dwelt  in  Hailes  their  freedom  from  the 
limbus,  and  admission  to  felicity  in  heaven.  “ His  soul 
also  really  and  substantially  descended  into  hell,  accord- 
ing to  David’s  testimony : ‘ Thou  wilt  not  leave  my  soul 
in  hell' . . . (Psa.  xv,  10).  lie  descended  in  order  that, 
clothed  with  the  spoils  of  the  arch-enemy,  he  might  con- 
duct into  heaven  those  holy  fathers  and  the  other  just 
souls  whose  liberation  from  prison  he  had  purchased,” 
etc.  {Cat.  Concil.  Trid.  art.  v). 

(3.)  Lutherans. — Luther  himself  did  not  speak  posi- 
tively on  this  topic.  He  agreed  at  first  with  Jerome 
and  Gregory  in  supposing  a limbus  patrum  whither 
Christ  went.  But  whenever  he  mentioned  the  subject 
after  1533,  he  was  accustomed  to  remark  that  Christ  de- 
stroyed the  power  of  the  devil  and  of  hell,  whither  he 
went  with  soul  and  body.  The  later  Lutheran  theology 
recognised  the  descent  as  a real  descent  into  hell.  Christ, 
the  God-man,  after  the  resurrection  and  the  reunion  of 
his  soul  with  his  body,  immediately  before  his  reappear- 
ance on  earth,  i.  e.  early  on  Easter  morning,  went,  body 
and  soul,  to  the  hell  of  the  damned,  the  time  which 
elapsed  between  his  death  on  the  cross  and  the  resurrec- 
tion having  been  spent  in  Paradise.  The  “ descent  into 
hell”  was  the  first  act  accomplished  by  the  God-man  af- 
ter his  entrance  into  his  divine  unlimited  power,  and  is 
therefore  considered  as  the  first  degree  of  the  state  of 
exaltation.  It  thus  constitutes  also  his  first  entering 
into  possession  of  the  kingdom  of  his  power,  and  in  the 
revelation  of  his  victory  over  the  devil,  and  the  conse- 
quent inability  of  the  latter  to  prevail  against  believers, 
whence  the  “ descent”  is  also  designated  as  “ the  triumph 
over  the  devil  and  his  angels.”  His  preaching  in  hell 
is  designated  as  condemnatory  (legalis  and  damnatcria, 


HELL 


172 


HELL 


Formula  Concordia,  art.  9).  The  Lutheran  divines  have 
generally  maintained  the  doctrine  as  thus  put  forth, 
though  not  without  controversy  among  themselves. 
zEpinus  (Johannes  Hoch,  j 1533)  taught  that  Christ’s 
descent  into  hell  belonged,  not  to  his  state  of  exaltation, 
but  to  that  of  humiliation,  his  soul  suffering  the  punish- 
ments of  hell  while  his  body  remained  in  the  grave, 
lie  denied  that  1 Pet.  iii,  IS  refers  to  the  “descent  into 
hell”  at  all. 

(4.)  Reformed.— In  the  Reformed  theology  in  general, 
the  11  descent  into  hell”  has  been  interpreted  metaphor- 
ically, or  as  meaning  simply  either  the  burial  of  Christ 
or  his  sufferings.  So  Calvin  : “ It  was  necessary  for 
Christ  to  contend  with  the  powers  of  hell  and  the  hor- 
ror of  eternal  death.”  ...  He  was  treated  as  a crimi- 
nal himself,  to  sustain  all  the  punishments  which  would 
have  been  indicted  on  transgressors;  only  with  this  ex- 
ception, that  it  was  not  possible  that  he  should  be  liold- 
en  of  the  pains  of  death.  Therefore  it  is  no  wonder  if  i 
he  be  said  to  have  descended  into  hell,  since  he  suffered  ' 
that  death  which  the  wrath  of  God  indicts  on  trails-  [ 
gressors”  ( Institutes , bk.  ii,  eh.  xvi,  § 10). 

The  Heidelberg  Catechism  substantially  follows  Cal-  ! 
vin:  “Quest.  44.  Why  is  there  added  ‘he  descended 
into  hell?’  That  in  my  greatest  temptations  I may  be  J 
assured,  and  wholly  comfort  myself  in  this,  that  my  j 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  by  his  inexpressible  anguish,  pains,  1 
terrors,  and  hellish  agonies,  in  which  he  was  plunged 
during  all  his  sufferings,  but  especially  on  the  cross, 
hath  delivered  me  from  the  anguish  and  torments  of 
hell.”  Dr.  Kevin  remarks  on  this  answer  that  it  gives 
the  words  of  the  Creed  “ a signidcation  which  is  good  in 
its  own  nature,  but,  at  the  same  time,  notoriously  at  war 
with  the  historical  sense  of  the  clause  itself.”  The  doc- 
trine is  stated  in  the  Westminster  Catechism  (Larger), 
answer  to  question  50,  as  follows : “ Christ’s  humiliation 
after  death  consisted  in  his  being  buried  and  continuing 
in  the  state  of  the  dead,  and  under  the  power  of  death, 
until  the  third  day,  which  has  been  otherwise  expressed  1 
in  the  words  ‘he  descended  into  licll.’”  Beza  main- 
tained that  the'  descent  into  Hades  simply  meant  the 
burial  of  Christ;  and  in  this  opinion  he  was  followed  by 
Drusius,  by  Dr.  Barrow,  and  other  English  divines : and 
so  Piscator,  and  several  of  the  Remonstrants  (Arminius, 
Curcelkeus,  Limborch),  refer  it  to  the  state  of  death 
( status  ignominiosus ) as  part  of  the  humiliation  to  which 
the  Prince  of  Life  was  subjected. 

Church  of  England.  — The  third  article  of  religion 
runs  as  follows : “As  Christ  died  for  us,  and  was  buried, 
so  also  is  it  to  be  believed  that  he  went  down  into  hell.” 
In  the  first  book  of  Edward  VI  it  was  more  fully  stated 
as  follows:  “The  body  of  Christ  lay  in  the  sepulchre  un- 
til his  resurrection ; but  his  ghost  departing  from  him, 
was  with  the  ghosts  which  were  in  prison,  or  in  hell, 
and  did  preach  to  the  same,  as  the  place  of  St.  Peter 
doth  testify.”  And  in  the  Creed  in  Metre,  given  at  the 
end  of  the  old  version  of  the  Psalms  in  the  Prayer-book, 
it  is  stated  as  follows : 

“ His  body  then  was  buried 
As  is  our  use  and  right ; 

His  spirit  after  this  descent 
Into  the  lower  parts, 

Of  them  that  long  in  darkness  were, 

The  true  light  of  their  hearts.” 

Pearson,  after  an  elaborate  but  not  always  luminous  ! 
examination  of  the  clause,  sums  up  his  own  view  of  the 
doctrine  as  follows : “ I give  a full  and  undoubting  as- 
sent unto  this  as  to  a certain  truth,  that  when  all  the 
sufferings  of  Christ  were  finished  on  the  cross,  and  his 
soul  was  separated  from  his  body,  though  his  body  were 
dead,  yet  his  soul  died  not ; and  though  it  died  not,  yet 
it  underwent  the  condition  of  the  souls  of  such  as  die; 
and  being  he  died  in  the  similitude  of  a sinner,  his  soul  i 
went  to  the  place  where  the  souls  of  men  are  kept  who  I 
died  for  their  sins,  and  so  did  wholly  undergo  the  law  ! 
of  death : but  because  there  ivas  no  sin  in  him,  and  he  i 
had  fully  satisfied  for  the  sins  of  others  which  he  took  I 
upon  him,  therefore,  as  God  suffered  not  his  Holy  One  I 


to  see  corruption,  so  he  left  not  his  soul  in  hell,  and 
thereby  gave  sufficient  security  to  all  those  who  belong 
to  Christ  of  never  coming  under  the  power  of  Satan,  or 
suffering  in  the  flames  prepared  for  the  devil  and  his 
angels.  And  thus,  and  for  these  purposes,  may  every 
Christian  say,  I believe  that  Christ  descended  into  hell” 
{Exp.  of  the  Creed,  Oxford,  1820,  p.  376).  Some  of  the 
divines  of  the  Church  of  England  held  the  Calvinistic 
view  of  this  subject;  others  held  the  old  theory  of  the 
descent  of  Christ  into  hell  that  he  might  triumph  over 
Satan,  as  he  had  before  triumphed  over  death  and  sin 
(Hevlyn,  Hist.  Presb.  p.  349;  Bilson,  Surrey  of  Christ's 
Sufferings,  1604).  Hugh  Broughton  (f  1612)  taught 
conclusively  that  Hades  is  simply  the  place  of  departed 
souls,  and  that  the  rational  sold  of  Christ,  in  his  inter- 
mediate state,  went  into  this  locality.  This  has  since 
been  the  generally  received  opinion  in  the  Church  of 
England;  so  Horsley,  “Christ  descended  to  the  invisible 
mansion  of  departed  spirits,  and  to  that  part  of  it  where 
the  souls  of  the  faithful,  when  delivered  from  the  burden 
of  the  flesh,  are  in  joy  and  felicity.  ...  In  that  place  he 
could  not  but  find  the  souls  that  are  in  it  in  safe  keep- 
ing; and,  in  some  way  or  other,  it  cannot  but  be  sup- 
posed he  would  hold  conference  with  them ; and  a par- 
ticular conference  with  one  class  might  be  the  means, 
and  certainly  could  be  no  obstruction,  to  a general  com- 
munication with  all”  {Sermons,  vol.  i,  serm.  xx).  Dr. 
Joseph  Mucnscher  discusses  the  whole  subject,  histor- 
ically and  critically,  in  an  able  article  in  the  Bibliotheca 
Sacra,  April,  1859,  and  concludes,  as  to  the  Protestant 
Episcopal  Church,  that  her  doctrine,  as  given  in  the 
Liturgy  and  Homilies,  “can  only  be  reconciled  with 
that  of  the  Creed  and  Articles  by  a liberal  construction 
of  the  Creeds.  And  this  has  been  done  by  the  American 
Church  herself  in  the  rubric  prefixed  to  the  Creed,  in 
which  she  substitutes  the  words  ‘he  went  into  the 
place  of  departed  spirits’  as  of  equivalent  import.  The 
terms  in  which  this  substitute  is  couched  are  quite  gen- 
eral and  indefinite.  By  employing  the  verb  went  in  the 
place  of  descended,  she  virtually  repudiates  the  hypothe- 
sis of  a subterranean  cavity  as  the  receptacle  of  disem- 
bodied souls.  And  the  phrase  “ place  of  departed  spir- 
its” determines  nothing  as  to  an  immediate  locality,  sep- 
arate and  distinct  from  both  heaven  and  hell.  It  merely 
affirms  that  the  soul  of  Jesus  at  his  death  went  to  its 
appropriate  place  in  the  invisible,  spiritual  world.  Thus 
understood,  the  dogma  of  Christ’s  descent  into  hell  is 
freed  from  all  difficulty  and  mystery,  and  made  plain  to 
the  comprehension  of  every  mind,  as  well  as  consonant 
with  the  general  tenor  of  Scripture.  The  results  to 
which  we  arc  brought  by  the  preceding  remarks  are : 1. 
That  Jhe  soul  of  man  docs  not  die  or  sleep  with  the 
body,  but,  immediately  after  the  dissolution  of  the  lat- 
ter, passes  into  a separate,  disembodied,  conscious  state, 
and  into  its  appropriate  place  (so  far  as  spirits  may  be 
supposed  to  occupy  place),  either  of  enjoyment  or  suf- 
fering— its  heaven  or  its  hell— according  to  the  moral 
character  which  it  may  possess.  2.  That  there  is  no 
third  intermediate  place  of  spiritual  existence;  no  sub- 
terranean habitation  of  disembodied  souls,  either  of  pro- 
bation or  of  purgation;  no  imaginary  paradise  in  the 
under  world  where  the  souls  of  the  pious  arc  preserved 
in  safe-keeping ; no  limbus  patrum,  no  limbus  infantum, 
no  purgatory.  3.  That  our  Saviour,  according  to  the 
Creed,  was  perfect  man  a:  well  as  perfect  God,  having  a 
human  soul  no  less  than  a human  body.  4.  That  when 
crucified  he  died  in  reality,  and  not  merely  in  appear- 
ance (syncope),  since  there  took  place  an  actual  separa- 
tion of  his  soul  and  body.  5.  That  the  idle  and  unprof- 
itable question  as  to  the  object  of  Christ’s  descent  into 
Hades  is  precluded ; a question  which  greatly  perplexed 
the  fathers,  the  schoolmen,  and  the  Reformers,  and  led  to 
the  invention  of  many  absurd  and  unseriptural  theories.” 

See  Petavius,  I)c  Theol.  Dngmat.  (Antw.  1700),  tom. 
ii,  pt.  ii,  p.  196 ; Knapp,  Theology , § 97 ; Dietelmavr, 
Hist,  dogmates  de  descensu  Christi  ad  inferos  (2d  ed.  Al- 
torf,  1762,  8vo) ; Hacker,  Dissert,  de  descensu  Christi  ad 


1IELL 


173 


HELL 


Inferos  (Dresden,  1802) ; Pearson,  On  the  Creed,  art.  v ; 
Edwards,  History  of  Redemption,  notes,  p.  351, 377 ; Stu- 
art, Exegetical  Essays  on  Future  Punishment;  Plump- 
tre,  Christ  and  Christendom,  p.  342;  Burnet,  Hardwick, 
Browne,  On  the  Thirty-nine  A rticles,  art.  iii ; Neale,  Hist, 
of  the  Puritans  (Harpers’  ed.),  i,  210;  Kbnig,  die  Lehre 
von  Christi  Holleifahrt  (Frankf.  1842) ; Bdt  teller,  de  In- 
feris  rebusque post  mortem  fnturis,  etc.  (Dresden,  1840,2 
vols.) ; Gtider,  Lehre  v.  d.  Erscheinuny  Christi  a.  d . Tod- 
ten  (Berlin,  1853) ; Glider,  in  Herzog,  Real-Encyhiop.  vi, 
178;  Zeitschrift  far  die  Lutherische  Theoloyie , 1808,  No. 
4;  Biblical  Repository,  April,  1843,  p.  470;  Bibliotheca 
Sacra,  Nov.  1847,  p.  708;  Huiilekoper,  Christ's  Mission 
to  the  Under  World  (Boston,  1854);  Bp.  Hobart,  On  the 
State  of  the  Departed;  Betliune,  Lectures  on  the  Heidel- 
berg Catechism,  lect.  xix ; Christian  Examiner,  1,  401  ; 
Martensen.  Christian  Dogmatics,  § 171 ; Dorner,  Person 
of  Christ  (Index,  s.  v.  Hell) ; Church  Review,  July,  1857 ; 
Muenseher,  in  Bibliotheca  Sacra,  April,  1859.  For  old 
monographs  on  the  subject,  see  Volbcding,  Index  Pro- 
grammatum,  p.  07.  See  Intermediate  State. 

HELL  PUNISHMENTS,  Nature  of.  — The  term 
Hell  (JIdlle),  as  stated  above,  originally  denoted  the 
“nether  world,”  the  “place  ol'  departed  spirits.”  It 
came  to  be  almost  exclusively  applied  at  a later  period 
to  the  “ place  of  torment”  for  the  wicked.  The  scholas- 
tic divines  distinguished  between  the  Limbus,  or  place 
of  the  souls  of  departed  spirits,  and  Hell,  properly  so 
called,  where  the  damned  suffer  their  punishment  (Aqui- 
nas, Sunimee  Supplem.  qu.  09). 

The  nature  of  the  punishments  of  hell  has  been  very 
variously  understood  in  different  times.  In  the  early 
Church  the  fire  of  hell  was  generally  considered  as  a real, 
material  fire.  So  Justin  Martyr,  Clement  of  Alexandria, 
Tertullian,  and  Cyprian.  Origen,  however,  “ believed 
the  misery  of  the  wicked  to  consist  in  separation  from 
God,  the  remorse  of  conscience,  etc.  (De  Princ.  ii,  10. 
Opp.  i,  102).  The  eternal  fire  is  neither  material  nor 
kindled  by  another  person,  but  the  combustibles  are  our 
sins  themselves,  of  which  conscience  reminds  us:  thus 
the  fire  of  hell  resembles  the  fire  of  passions  in  this 
world.  The  separation  between  the  soul  and  God  may 
be  compared  with  the  pain  which  we  suffer  when  all  the 
members  of  the  body  arc  torn  out  of  their  joints.  By 
‘outer  darkness’  Origen  does  not  so  much  understand  a 
place  devoid  of  light  as  a state  of  complete  ignorance ; 
he  thus  appears  to  adopt  the  idea  of  black  bodies  only 
by  way  of  accommodation  to  popular  notions.  It  should 
also  be  borne  in  mind  that  Origen  imagined  that  the 
design  of  all  these  punishments  was  to  heal  or  to  cor- 
rect, and  thus  finally  to  restore  the  sinner  to  the  favor 
of  God”  (Hagenbacli,  History  of  Doctrines,  § 78). 

From  the  latter  part  of  the  3d  century  onward  to  the 
rise  of  scholasticism,  the  punishments  of  hell  were  gen- 
erally described  by  material  images,  and,  indeed,  were 
considered,  to  a large  extent,  as  material  punishments. 
Gregory  of  Nazianzus  (f  389?)  supposed  the  punish- 
ment of  the  damned  to  consist  essentially  in  their  sepa- 
ration from  God,  and  in  the  consciousness  of  their  own 
moral  debasement  (Orat.  xvi,  9.  p.  306:  Toig  ct  ptrd 
twv  eiWiov  fiaoavog,  paXXov  ci  ttoo  twv  iiXXwv  to 
d—tppirpSai  Seov,  icai  ?)  iv  Tig  owhCoti  aiaxvvi] 
oh k tyooira).  Basil,  on  the  contrary,  gives  a more  vivid 
description  of  that  punishment  (JJomiL  in  Psa.  xxiii. 
Opp.  i,  151,  and  elsewhere).  Chrysostom  represents  the 
torments  of  the  damned  in  a variety  of  horrid  pictures 
(in  Theod.  lapsum , i,  e.  6,  Opp.  iv,  500,  561).  Neverthe- 
less, in  other  places  (e.  g.,  in  his  Ep.  ad  Rom.  hom.  xxxi, 
Opp.  x,  39G)  he  justly  observes  that  it  is  of  more  impor-  j 
tance  to  know  how  to  escape  hell  than  to  know  where  it 
is  and  what  is  its  nature.  Oregon'  of  Nyssa  (Orat.  Ca- 
tech.  40)  endeavors  to  divest  the  idea  of  hell  of  all  that 
is  sensuous  (the  fire  of  hell  is  not  to  be  looked  upon  as  a 
material  fire,  nor  is  the  worm  which  never  dies  an  i~i- 
ynov  Srjniov).  Augustine  imagines  that  separation  from 
God  is  in  the  first  instance  to  be  regarded  as  the  death 
and  punishment  of  the  damned  (De  morib.  eccles.  cath. 


c.  11) ; but  he  leaves  it  to  his  readers  to  choose  between 
the  more  sensuous  or  the  more  spiritual  mode  of  percep- 
tion. It  is,  lie  says,  at  all  events,  better  to  think  of 
both  (De  cicit.  Dei,  xxi,  9,  10). 

From  the  8th  to  the  10th  centuries  the  tendency  was 
to  regard  the  punishments  of  hell  more  as  physical  and 
material  than  as  moral  and  spiritual;  in  the  doctrine  of 
the  Church  the  two  sorts  of  punishment  were  combined. 
Aquinas  treats  of  the  punishments  of  hell  under  the  title 
Poena  Dumnatorum  ( Surnmai  Suppl.  qu.  97),  and  teach- 
es, 1.  that  the  damned  will  suffer  other  punishments  be- 
sides that  of  fire;  2.  that  the  “undying  worm”  is  re- 
morse of  conscience;  3.  that  the  “darkness”  of  lull  is 
physical  darkness,  only  so  much  light  being  admitted  as 
will  allow  the  lost  to  see  and  apprehend  the  punishments 
of  the  place ; that,  as  both  body  and  soul  arc  to  be  pun- 
ished, the  fire  of  hell  will  be  a material  fire.  Augus- 
tine’s view,  he  says,  is  to  be  considered  rather  as  a pass- 
ing opinion  than  as  a decision  (loquitur  opinando  et  non 
determinundo).  The  fire,  according  to  Aquinas,  is  of  the 
same  nature  as  our  ordinary  fire,  though  “with  different 
properties;”  and -the  place  of  punishment,  though  not 
certainly  known,  is  probably  under  the  earth.  Others 
of  the  schoolmen,  however  (especially  the  Mystics),  made 
the  suffering  of  hell  to  consist  rather  in  separation  from 
God,  and  in  the  consequent  consciousness  of  sin,  and  of 
unavailing  repentance,  than  in  material  penalties. 

The  Reformation  made  little  change  in  the  doctrine 
as  to  the  nature  of  future  punishment.  The  substance 
of  the  Reformed  doctrine  is  given  in  the  Westminster 
Confession,  chap,  xxxiii,  as  follows:  “The  wicked,  who 
know  not  God,  and  obey  not  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
shall  be  cast  into  eternal  torments,  and  be  punished  with 
everlasting  destruction  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord, 
and  from  the  glory  of  his  power and  in  the  Larger 
Catechism,  quest.  29,  “ What  are  the  punishments  of  sin 
in  the  world  to  cornel  A.  The  punishments  of  sin  in  the 
, world  to  come  are  everlasting  separation  from  the  com- 
| fortable  presence  of  God,  and  most  grievous  torments  in 
soul  and  body,  without  intermission,  in  hell-fire  forever.” 
In  general,  both  Protestant  and  Roman  Catholic  theo- 
logians agree  in  making  that  punishment  to  consist  (1) 
of  the  pana  damni,  penalty  of  loss  or  deprivation,  sep- 
aration from  God,  and  hence  loss  of  all  possible  sources 
of  enjoyment  (Matt,  vi,  21;  xxii,  13;  xxv,  41;  compare 
Wesley,  Sermons,  ii,  148),  of  which  loss  the  damned  will 
be  fully  conscious ; (2)  of  the  pana  sensus,  penalty  of 
sense  or  feeling,  as  the  natural  consequence  of  sin. 
“These  punishments  arc  inevitable,  and  connected  as 
closely  and  inseparably  with  sin  as  any  effect  with  its 
cause.  From  the  consciousness  of  being  guilty  of  sin 
arise  regret,  sorrow,  and  remorse  of  conscience,  and  it  is 
these  inward  pangs  which  are  the  most  grievous  and 
tormenting.  The  conscience  of  man  is  a stern  accuser, 
which  cannot  be  refuted  or  bribed,  and  the  more  its  voice 
is  disregarded  or  suppressed  here  upon  earth,  the  more 
loudly  will  it  speak  hereafter.  Add  to  this  that  the 
propensity  to  sin,  the  passions  and  evil  desires  which  in 
this  world  occupy  the  human  heart,  are  carried  along 
into  the  next.  For  it  cannot  be  supposed  that  they  will 
i be  suddenly  eradicated  as  by  a miracle,  and  this  is  not 
| promised.  ' But  these  desires  and  propensities  can  no 
longer  find  satisfaction  in  the  future  world,  where  man 
will  be  placed  in  an  entirely  different  situation,  and  sur- 
rounded by  a circle  of  objects  entirely  new,  hence  they 
will  become  the  more  inflamed.  From  the  very  nature 
of  the  ease,  it  is  plain,  therefore,  that  the  state  ol  such  a 
man  hereafter  must  necessarily  be  miserable.  Hiame, 
regret,  remorse,  hopelessness,  and  absolute  despair,  are 
the  natural,  inevitable,  and  extremely  dreadful  conse- 
quences of  the  sins  committed  in  this  life.”  (3)  Be- 
sides these  natural  penalties  of  sin.  there  will  also  be 
positive  penalties  inflicted  by  divine  justice.  4 he  New 
Testament  speaks  far  more  distinctly  and  frequently  of 
these  positive  punishments  than  of  the  natural  ones,  and 
especially  of  the  “ undying  worm,”  and  of  “ the  eternal 
fire.”  The  general  tendency  of  modem  theology  is  to 


HELL 


174 


HELLENIST 


regard  these  expressions  as  figurativ  e representations  of 
the  positive  penalties  of  hell.  Doddridge  remarks  that, 
“ On  the  whole,  it  is  of  very  little  importance  whether 
we  say  there  is  an  external  fire,  or  only  an  idea  of  such 
pain  as  arises  from  burning;  and  should  we  think  both 
doubtful,  it  is  certain  God  can  give  the  mind  a sense  of 
agony  and  distress  which  should  answer  and  even  ex- 
ceed the  terrors  of  those  descriptions;  and  care  should 
certainly  be  taken  so  to  explain  Scripture  metaphors  as 
that  hell  may  be  considered  as  consisting  more  of  mental 
agony  than  of  bodily  tortures”  (Led.  on  Dii'in.  ccxxiii). 

Of  similar  tenor  are  the  following  remarks  by  Dr. 
Wardlaw  : “ What  the  nature  of  that  suffering  shall  be 
it  is  vain  for  its  to  attempt  to  conjecture.  It  lias  been 
conceived  that  if  we  suppose  clear  apprehensions  of  God 
and  sin  in  the  understanding;  an  unslumbering  con- 
science ; an  unceasing  conflict  between  full,  irrepressible 
convictions  of  all  that  is  awful  in  truth,  and  an  enmity 
of  heart  remaining  in  all  its  virulence ; passions  raging 
in  their  unmitigated  violence ; regrets  as  unavailing  as 
they  are  torturing;  conscious  desert  and  unalleviated 
hopelessness;  with  the  entire  removal  of  all,  in  what- 
ever form,  that  on  earth  enabled  the  sinner  to  banish 
thought  and  exclude  anticipation,  we  have  materials  for 
a sufficient  hell.  I will  not  deny  it.  ...  I cannot  but 
think,  therefore,  that  there  must  be  something  more 
than  conscience,  something  of  the  nature  of  positive 
punitive  infliction:  conscience  attesting  its  justice,  cer- 
tifying its  being  all  deserved.  What  shall  be  the  pre- 
cise nature  of  that  infliction  is  another  question.  There 
may  surely  be  something  of  the  nature  of  punitive  in- 
fliction without  adopting  the  theory  of  literal  fire,  of  a 
lake  of  fire,  a lake  burning  with  brimstone.  I have  no 
more  belief,  as  I have  just  said,  in  a literal  fire  than  in 
a literal  worm;  and  no  more  belief  in  either  than  in  the 
existence,  for  the  heaven  of  the  Bible,  of  a literal  para- 
dise, in  the  centre  of  which  grows  the  tree  of  life,  or  of 
a literal  city,  of  which  the  length,  and  breadtlf,  and 
height  are  equal,  of  which  the  foundations  are  precious 
stones,  the  gates  of  pearl,  and  the  streets  of  gold,  with  a 
pure  river  of  living  water  flowing  through  the  midst  of 
it.  But  the  mind  of  fallen  man  is  in  love  with  sin,  and 
in  selfish  hatred  of  God  and  holiness.  In  a mind  of  this 
character  the  difficulty  may  amount  to  impossibility  of 
awakening  any  adequate  sense  of  future  suffering,  or 
any  salutary  alarm  in  the  anticipation  of  it,  by  any  rep- 
resentation of  it  more  directly  spiritual,  or  even  mental. 
In  these  circumstances,  then,  if  an  impression  of  ex- 
treme suffering  is  to  be  made,  it  seems  as  if  figure,  taken 
from  what  is  still  in  the  midst  of  all  the  perversions  of 
depravity  felt  to  be  fearful,  were  almost,  if  not  altogeth- 
er, indispensable  for  the  purpose.  The  figures  of  Scrip- 
ture on  this  subject  are  felt,  and  felt  powerfully,  by  ev- 
ery mind.  The  very  mention  of  the  “ worm  that  dieth 
not”  awakens  a more  thrilling  emotion,  undefined  as  it 
is  (perhaps,  indeed,  the  more  thrilling  that  it  is  unde- 
fined), than  anything  you  can  say  to  an  unregenerate 
man  about  the  operations  of  conscience,  and  the  “fire 
that  never  shall  be  quenched”  than  any  representation 
you  can  ever  make  to  him  of  sin,  and  the  absence  of 
God,  and  the  sway  of  evil  passions,  and  the  pangs  of 
remorse,  and  horribleness  of  sin-loving  and  God-hating 
company.  Such  images  have  the  full  effect  intended 
by  them.  They  give  the  impression,  the  vivid  and  in- 
tense impression,  of  extreme  suffering;  although  what 
proportion  of  that  suffering  shall  be  the  native  and  nec- 
essary result  of  the  constitution  of  human  nature  when 
placed  in  certain  circumstances,  and  what  proportion  of 
more  direct  penal  infliction,  the  Scriptures  do  not  tell 
us,  entering  into  no  such  discussions.  And  it  would  be 
useless  for  us  to  conjecture,  or  to  attempt  the  adjustment 
of  such  proportions”  ( Systematic  Theology,  Edinburgh, 
1857,  iii,  700).  For  a copious  list  of  books  on  the  sub- 
ject, see  Abbot’s  bibliographical  appendix  to  Alger,  His- 
tory of  the  Doctrine  of  a Future  Life,  § iii,  F,  3. 

On  the  Duration  of  the  punishment  of  hell,  see  U>’i- 
VERSALISM. 


Hellenist  ('E \\ijvi<rryg,  A.  V.  “ Grecian ;”  comp. 
'EWgviopog,  2 Macci  iv,  13).  In  one  of  the  earliest  no- 
tices of  the  first  Christian  Church  at  Jerusalem  (Acts  vi, 
1),  two  distinct  parties  are  recognised  among  its  mem- 
bers, “ Hebrews ” and  Hellenists,  who  appear  to  stand  to- 
wards one  another  in  some  degree  in  a relation  of  jeal- 
ous rivalry.  So,  again,  when  Paul  first  visited  Jerusa- 
lem after  his  conversion,  he  spoke  and  disputed  with  the 
Hellenists  (Acts  ix,  29),  as  if  expecting  to  find  more  sym- 
pathy among  them  than  with  the  rulers  of  the  Jews. 
The  term  Hellenist  occurs  once  again  in  the  N.  T.  ac- 
cording to  the  common  text,  in  the  account  of  the  foun- 
dation of  the  Church  at  Antioch  (Acts  xi,  20),  but  there 
the  context,  as  well  as  the  form  of  the  sentence  (mi 
irpbg  rovg  'E.,  though  the  mi  is  doubtful),  seems  to  re- 
quire the  other  reading  “Greeks”  ('EWtjveg),  which  is 
supported  by  great  external  evidence  as  the  true  anti- 
thesis to  “ Jews”  (’lou^ctiotc,  not  'E/Spaioig , v,  19).  See 
Hebrews. 

The  name,  according  to  its  derivation,  whether  the 
original  verb  (‘E\Xj/ri'£w)  be  taken,  according  to  the 
common  analogy  of  similar  forms  ( , drrna£w,  3>i- 
XunriZwi),  in  the  general  sense  of  adopting  the  spirit  and 
character  of  Greeks,  or,  in  the  more  limited  sense,  of 
using  the  Greek  language  (Xenophon,  A nab.  vii,  3,  25), 
marks  a class  distinguished  by  peculiar  habits,  and  not 
by  descent.  Thus  the  Hellleuists  as  a body  included 
not  only  the  proselytes  of  Greek  (or  foreign)  parentage 
(oi  (TEjSopsvoi  ' HL\\T]vig,  Acts  xvii,  4 (?) ; ol  atftoptvoi 
7rpo(7i)\vroi,  Acts  xiii,  43;  oi  ctftbptvoi,  Acts  xvii,  17), 
but  also  those  Jews  who,  by  settling  in  foreign  countries, 
had  adopted  the  prevalent  form  of  the  current  Greek 
civilization,  and  with  it  the  use  of  the  common  Greek 
dialect,  to  the  exclusion  of  the  Aramaic,  which  was  the 
national  representative  of  the  ancient  Hebrew.  Helle- 
nism was  thus  a type  of  life,  and  not  an  indication  of  or- 
igin. Hellenists  might  be  Greeks,  but  when  the  latter 
term  is  used  (’EWijveg,  John  xii,  20),  the  point  of  race 
and  not  of  creed  is  that  which  is  foremost  in  the  mind 
of  the  writer.  (See  Jour.  Sac.  Lit.  Jan.  and  April,  1857.) 
— Smith,  s.  v.  See  Grecian. 

1.  As  to  the  particular  class  in  question,  referred  to  in 
the  Acts,  the  following  are  the  different  opinions  that 
have  been  held:  1.  That  the  distinctive  difference  be- 
tween them  was  simply  one  of  language,  the  Hebrews 
speaking  the  Aramaic  of  Palestine,  the  Hellenists  the 
Greek.  This  is  the  most  ancient  opinion,  being  that 
expressed  in  the  Peshito,  and  given  by  Chrysostom, 
Theophylact,  etc.;  and  it  is  the  one  which  has  received 
the  largest  number  of  suffrages  in  more  recent  times. 
Among  its  advocates  are  Joseph  Scaliger,  Heinsius,  Dru- 
sius,  Grotius,  Selden,  Ilottinger,  Hug,  etc. 

2.  That  the  distinction  was  partly  of  country,  partly 
of  language:  the  Hebrew  being  a native  of  Juda?a,  and 
using  the  Aramaic  language;  the  Hellenist  born  among 
the  Gentiles,  and  using  the  speech  of  the  country  of 
which  he  was  a native.  So  Erasmus,  Liglitfoot,  Bengel, 
Wahl,  De  Wette,  Davidson,  Alford,  Baumgarten,  etc. 

3.  That  the  difference  was  one  of  religious  history, 
the  Hebrew  being  a born  child  of  the  covenant,  the  Hel- 
lenist a proselyte  from  heathenism.  So  Beza,  Salmasius, 
Pearson,  Basnage,  Pfanukuclie,  etc. 

4.  That  the  difference  was  one  of  principle : the  He- 
brew adhering  to  one  set  of  beliefs  or  modes  of  thought, 
the  Hellenist  adopting  another.  According  to  some, 
this  difference  had  the  effect  of  constituting  the  Helle- 
nists into  a distinct  sect  among  the  Jews,  such  as  the  Es- 
senes;  whilst  others,  without  going  this  length,  regard 
the  two  classes  as  standing  to  each  other  very  much  in 
the  relation  in  which  parties  in  the  state  holding  differ- 
ent political  views,  or  parties  in  the  same  Church  having 
different  aims  and  modes  of  regarding  religious  truth  in 
modern  times,  may  stand  to  each  other;  the  Hebrews 
being  like  the  Conservative  or  High-Church  party,  while 
the  Hellenists  advocated  a more  progressive,  unfettered, 
and  comprehensive  scheme  of  thinking  and  acting.  This 
latter  view,  in  its  substance,  has  recently  found  an  able 


HELLENIST 


175 


HELLENIST 


advocate  in  Mr.  Roberts  ( Discussions  on  the  Gospels,  p. 
148  sq.).  According  to  him,  “ the  Hellenists  were  those 
Jews,  whether  belonging  to  Palestine  or  not,  who  will- 
ingly yielded  to  the  influence  of  Gentile  civilization  and 
habits,  and  were  thus  distinguished  by  their  free  and 
liberal  spirit ; the  Ilebretvs,  again,  were  the  rigid  adhe- 
rents to  Judaism,  who,  iu  spite  of  the  providential  agen- 
cies which  had  been  long  at  work,  endeavored  to  keep 
up  those  peculiar  and  exclusive  usages  by  which  the 
Jews  had  for  so  many  centuries  been  preserved  distinct 
from  all  other  nations.” 

We  are  not  disposed  to  reject  entirely  any  of  these 
opinions.  Each  of  them  seems  to  have  an  element  of 
truth  in  it,  though  the  contributions  they  make  to  the 
whole  truth  on  this  subject  are  by  no  means  of  equal 
importance.  The  last  alone  points  to  what  must  be  re- 
garded as  the  fundamental  and  formative  characteristic 
of  Hellenism  among  the  Jews.  There  can  be  no  doubt 
historically  that  some  such  distinction  as  that  to  which 
it  refers  did  subsist  in  the  Jewish  nation  (see  Jost,  Gesch. 
des  Jude nt hums,  i,  99  sq.,  845  sq.),  and  had  come  to  a 
height  at  the  commencement  of  the  Christian  rera  ; and 
nothing  can  be  more  probable  than  that  the  existence 
of  such  a distinction  should  manifest  itself  in  the  very 
way  in  which  the  distinction  between  the  Hebrews  and 
the  Hellenists  is  asserted  to  have  shown  itself  in  Acts 
vi,  1 sq.  It  is  in  agreement  with  this,  also,  that  Paul 
shoidd  have  entered  into  discussion  chiefly  with  the 
Hellenistic  Jews  at  Jerusalem ; for  it  is  probable  that  as 
his  early  Ilellenie  culture  pointed  him  out  as  the  person 
most  fitted  to  meet  them  on  their  own  ground,  he  may 
have  been  specially  set  upon  this  work  by  the  other 
apostles.  — Kitto,  s.  v.  Still  this  difference  of  views 
could  hardly  of  itself  have  constituted  so  marked  and 
obvious  a distinction  as  is  implied  in  the  various  texts 
above  cited,  unless  it  had  been  exhibited  in  some  out- 
ward characteristic;  and  no  external  sign  could  have 
been  more  certain,  natural,  and  palpable  than  that  fa- 
miliar use  of  the  Greek  language  which  at  once  betray- 
ed a foreign  Jew,  to  whom  it  was  vernacular,  in  contrast 
with  the  Palestinian  Jew,  by  whom  Greek,  although  too 
prevalent  in  that  age  everywhere  to  have  been  unknown 
to  any,  was  nevertheless  always  spoken  with  a Hebrew 
coloring  and  accent.  See  Dispersion. 

II.  It  remains  to  characterize  briefly  the  elements 
which  the  Hellenists  contributed  to  the  language  of  the 
N.  T.,  and  the  immediate  effects  which  they  produced 
upon  the  apostolic  teaching : 

1.  The  flexibility  of  the  Greek  language  gained  for  it 
in  ancient  times  a general  currency  similar  to  that  which 
French  enjoys  in  modern  Europe;  but  with  this  impor- 
tant difference,  that  Greek  was  not  only  the  language 
of  educated  men,  but  also  the  language  of  the  masses  in 
the  great  centres  of  commerce.  The  colonies  of  Alex- 
ander and  his  successors  originally  established  what  lias 
been  called  the  Macedonian  dialect  throughout  the  East; 
but  even  in  this  the  prevailing  power  of  Attic  literature 
made  itself  distinctly  felt.  Peculiar  words  and  forms 
adopted  at  Alexandria  ivere  undoubtedly  of  Macedonian 
origin,  but  the  later  Attic  may  be  justly  regarded  as  the 
real  basis  of  Oriental  Greek.  This  lirst  type  was,  how- 
ever, soon  modified,  at  least  in  common  use,  by  contact 
with  other  languages.  The  vocabulary  was  enriched 
by  the  addition  of  foreign  words,  anti  the  syntax  was 
modified  by  new  constructions.  Iu  this  way  a variety 
of  local  dialects  must  have  arisen,  the  specific  characters 
of  which  were  determined  in  the  first  instance  by  the 
conditions  under  which  they  were  formed,  and  which 
afterwards  passed  away  with  the  circumstances  that  ; 
had  produced  them.  But  one  of  these  dialects  has  been 
preserved  after  the  ruin  of  the  people  among  whom  it  | 
arose;,  by  being  consecrated  to  the  noblest  service  which 
language  has  yet  fulfilled.  In  other  cases  the  dialects 
perished  together  with  the  communities  who  used  them 
in  the  common  intercourse  of  life,  but  in  that  of  the 
Jews  the  Alexandrine  version  of  the  O.  Test.,  acting  in 
this  respect  like  the  great  vernacular  versions  of  Eng-  \ 


land  and  Germany,  gave  a definiteness  and  fixity  to  the 
popular  language  which  could  not  have  been  gained 
without  the  existence  of  some  recognised  standard.  The 
style  of  the  Sept,  itself  is,  indeed,  different  in  different 
parts,  but  the  same  general  character  runs  through  the 
whole,  and  the  variations  which  it  presents  are  not  greater 
than  those  which  exist  in  the  different  books  of  the  N.  T. 

The  functions  which  this  Jewisli-Greek  had  to  dis- 
charge were  of  the  widest  application,  and  the  language 
itself  combined  the  most  opposite  features.  It  was  es- 
sentially a fusion  of  Eastern  and  Western  thought;  for, 
disregarding  peculiarities  of  inflection  and  novel  words, 
the  characteristic  of  the  Hellenistic  dialect  is  the  com- 
bination of  a Hebrew  spirit  with  a Greek  body,  of  a 
Hebrew  form  with  Greek  words.  The  conception  be- 
longs to  one  race,  and  the  expression  to  another.  Nor 
is  it  too  much  to  say  that  this  combination  was  one  of 
the  most  important  preparations  for  the  reception  of 
Christianity,  and  one  of  the  most  important  aids  for  the 
adequate  expression  of  its  teaching.  On  the  one  hand, 
by  the  spread  of  the  Hellenistic  Greek,  the  deep,  theo- 
cratic aspect  of  the  world  and  life,  which  distinguishes 
Jewish  thought,  was  placed  before  men  at  large;  and, 
on  the  other,  the  subtle  truths  which  philosophy  had 
gained  from  the  analysis  of  mind  and  action,  and  en- 
shrined in  words,  were  transferred  to  the  service  of  rev- 
elation. In  the  fulness  of  time,  when  the  great  mes- 
sage came,  a language  was  prepared  to  convey  it ; and 
thus  the  very  dialect  of  the  N.  T.  forms  a great  lesson 
in  the  true  philosophy  of  history,  and  becomes  in  itself  a 
monument  of  the  providential  government  of  mankind. 

This  view  of  the  Hellenistic  dialect  will  at  once  re- 
move one  of  the  commonest  misconceptions  relating  to 
it.  For  it  will  follow  that  its  deviations  from  the  ordi- 
nary laws  of  classic  Greek  are  themselves  hound  by 
some  common  law,  and  that  irregularities  of  construc- 
tion and  altered  usages  of  words  are  to  he  traced  to  tlieir 
first  source,  and  interpreted  strictly  according  to  the 
original  conception  out  of  which  they  sprang.  A pop- 
ular, and  even  a corrupt  dialect  is  not  less  precise,  or, 
in  other  words,  is  not  less  human  than  a polished  one, 
though  its  interpretation  may  often  be  more  difficult 
from  the  want  of  materials  for  analysis.  But  in  the 
ease  of  the  N.  T.,  the  books  themselves  furnish  an  ample 
store  for  the  critic,  and  the  Sept.,  when  compared  with 
the  Hebrew  text,  provides  him  with  the  history  of  the 
language  which  he  has  to  study. 

2.  The  adoption  of  a strange  language  was  essentially 
characteristic  of  the  true  nature  of  Hellenism.  The 
purely  outward  elements  of  the  national  life  were  laid 
aside  with  a facility  of  which  history  offers  few  exam- 
ples, while  the  inner  character  of  the  people  remained 
unchanged.  In  every  respect,  the  thought,  so  to  speak, 
was  clothed  in  a new  dress.  Hellenism  was,  as  it  were, 
a fresh  incorporation  of  Judaism  according  to  altered 
laws  of  life  and  worship.  But,  as  the  Hebrew  spirit 
made  itself  distinctly  visible  in  the  new  dialect,  so  it  re- 
mained undestroyed  by  the  new  conditions  which  regu- 
lated its  action.  While  the  Hellenistic  Jews  followed 
their  natural  instinct  for  trade,  which  was  originally 
curbed  by  the  Mosaic  law,  and  gained  a deeper  insight 
into  foreign  character,  and  with  this  a truer  sympathy, 
or  at  least  a wider  tolerance  towards  foreign  opinions, 
they  found  means  at  the  same  time  to  extend  the 
knowledge  of  the  principles  of  their  divine  faith,  and  to 
gain  respect  and  attention  even  from  those  who  did  not 
openly  embrace  their  religion.  Hellenism  accomplished 
for  the  outer  world  what  the  Return  accomplished  for 
the  Palestinian  Jews:  it  was  the  necessary  step  between 
a religion  of  form  and  a religion  of  spirit:  it  witnessed 
against  Judaism  as  final  and  universal,  and  it  witnessed 
for  it  as  the  foundation  of  a spiritual  religion  which 
should  be  bound  by  no  local  restrictions.  Under  the 
influence  of  this  wider  instruction,  a Greek  body  grew 
up  around  the  synagogue — not  admitted  into  the  Jew- 
ish Church,  and  yet  holding  a recognised  position  with 
regard  to  it — which  was  able  to  apprehend  the  apostolic 


HELLER 


176 


HELMET 


teaching,  and  ready  to  receive  it.  The  Hellenists  them- 
selves were  at  once  missionaries  to  the  heathen  and 
prophets  to  their  own  countrymen.  Their  lives  were 
an  abiding  protest  against  polytheism  and  pantheism, 
and  they  retained  with  unshaken  zeal  the  sum  of  their 
ancient ’creed,  when  the  preacher  had  popularly  occu- 
pied the  place  of  the  priest,  and  a service  of  prayer,  and 
praise,  and  exhortation  had  succeeded  in  daily  life  to 
the  elaborate  ritual  of  the  Temple.  Yet  this  new  de- 
velopment of  Judaism  was  obtained  without  the  sacri- 
fice of  national  ties.  The  connection  of  the  Hellenists 
with  the  Temple  was  not  broken,  except  in  the  case  of 
some  of  the  Egyptian  Jews.  Unity  coexisted  with  dis- 
persion; and  the  organization  of  the  Church  was  fore- 
shadowed, not  only  in  the  widening  breadth  of  doctrine, 
but  even  externally  in  the  scattered  communities  which 
looked  to  Jerusalem  as  their  common  centre. 

In  another  aspect  Hellenism  served  as  the  prepara- 
tion for  a catholic  creed.  As  it  furnished  the  language 
of  Christianity,  it.  supplied  also  that  literary  instinct 
which  counteracted  the  traditional  reserve  of  the  Pales- 
tinian Jews.  The  writings  of  the  X.  Test.,  and  all  the 
writings  of  the  apostolic  age,  with  the  exception  of  the 
original  Gospel  of  Matthew,  were,  as  fur  as  we  know, 
Greek ; and  Greek  seems  to  have  remained  the  sole  ve- 
hicle of  Christian  literature,  and  the  principal  medium 
of  Christian  worship,  till  the  Church  of  North  Africa 
rose  into  importance  in  the  time  of  Tertullian.  The 
Canon  of  the  Christian  Scriptures,  the  early  creeds,  and 
the  liturgies,  are  the  memorials  of  this  Hellenistic  pre- 
dominance in  the  Church,  and  the  types  of  its  working; 
and  if  in  later  times  the  Greek  spirit  descended  to  the 
investigation  of  painful  subtleties,  it  may  be  questioned 
whether  the  fulness  of  Christian  truth  could  have  been 
developed  without  the  power  of  Greek  thought  temper- 
ed by  Hebrew  discipline. 

The  general  relations  of  Hellenism  to  Judaism  are 
well  treated  in  the  histories  of  Ewald  and  Jost ; but  the 
Hellenistic  language  is  as  yet,  critically  speaking,  al- 
most unexplored.  Winer’s  Grammar  {Gramm,  d.  X.  T. 
tipnu-hidioms,  7th  ed.  18G8)  has  done  great  service  in 
establishing  the  idea  of  law  in  N.-T.  language,  which 
was  obliterated  by  earlier  interpreters,  but  even  Winer 
does  not  investigate  the  origin  of  the  peculiarities  of 
the  Hellenistic  dialect.  The  idioms  of  the  N.  T.  cannot 
be  discussed  apart  from  those  of  the  Sept.,  and  no  ex- 
planation can  be  considered  perfect  which  does  not  take 
into  account  the  origin  of  the  corresponding  Hebrew 
idioms.  For  this  work  even  the  materials  are  as  yet 
deficient.  The  text  of  the  Sept,  is  still  in  a most  un- 
satisfactory condition ; and  while  Bmder’s  Concordance 
leaves  nothing  to  be  desired  for  the  vocabulary  of  the 
X.  T.,  Trommius’s  Concordance  to  the  Sept.,  however 
useful,  is  quite  untrustworthy  for  critical  purposes. — 
Smith,  s.  v.  See  Greek  Language. 

Heller,  Yomtov  Lipman  b.-Natiian,  a distinguish- 
ed Rabbi  of  the  Polish  school,  born  at  Wallerstein,  duchy 
of  Anspach,  Germany,  in  1579.  lie  filled  the  appoint- 
ment of  Rabbi  to  the  great  synagogues  at  Vienna, 
Prague,  and  Krakau.  While  at  Prague  (1G29)  he  was 
prosecuted  by  the  government  upon  a charge  that  he 
had  written  in  praise  of  the  Talmud  to  the  injury  of  the 
Christian  religion,  was  imprisoned,  and  fined  10,000  flor- 
ins. After  his  release  he  went  to  Poland,  where,  in 
11H4,  he  became  Rabbi  of  the  synagogue  at  Krakau. 
Here  he  died  in  1G54.  Heller  wrot e his  autobiography 
printed  in  1836,  which  contains  a com- 
plete list  of  all  his  works.  Among  the  most  important 
of  them  are  his  glossaries  to  the  Mishna  r'*S'D',r). 
These  are  considered  by  Oriental  scholars  as  very  valu- 
able.— Jost,  Gcsck.  d.  Juden.  iii,  243;  Etheridge,  Int rod. 
to  I lehr.  Literature , p.  448.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Helm,  TnjcdXiov,  the  rudder  of  a ship  (Jas.  iii,  4). 
See  Rudder. 

Helmet  (-3“ 3 or  3 3 ip,  l-oba',  7rtpiK£<pa\aia),  a 
military  cap  for  the  defence  of  the  head  in  battle  (1  Sam. 


HELMONT  m HELP 


Ancient  Helmets : a-e,  Egyptian  ; /,  g,  Persian  ; h-k,  Syr- 
ian ; l-o,  Plirygiau ; p,  q,  Dacian ; r-u,  Assyrian. 


xvii,  5,  38,  etc.;  Eph.  vi,  17 ; 1 Thess.  v,  8).  See  Ar- 

31  OH. 

Helmont,  Francois  Mercure,  baron  van,  was 
born  at  Vilvorde  in  1G18.  Ill  his  youth  he  studied  med- 
icine, and  applied  himself  especially  to  alchemy.  He 
then  joined  a band  of  gypsies,  with  whom  he  travelled 
through  part  of  Europe,  but  was  arrested  in  Italy  in 
16G2,  and  cast  into  the  dungeons  of  the  Inquisition.  In 
1G63,  being  liberated,  he  went  to  Sulzbach,  where  he 
worked  with  Ivnorr  of  Ilosenroth  at  the  Kabbala  denu- 
elata.  lie  published,  about  the  same  time,  a work  on 
the  alphabet  of  the  primitive  tongue,  i.  e.  Hebrew  (Sulz- 
bach, 1GG7,  l2ino),  which,  according  to  him,  is  so  natural 
that  every  letter  expresses  merely  the  position  of  the 
lips  while  pronouncing  it:  he  pretended  to  teach  the 
deaf  and  dumb  to  articulate  all  the  sounds  of  his  alpha- 
bet at  first  sight.  He  believed  in  the  transmigration  of 
souls,  the  universal  remedy,  and  the  philosopher’s  stone. 
He  travelled  afterwards  through  England,  and  returned 
through  Hanover  to  Berlin,  in  a suburb  of  which  city  he 
died  in  1699  (Moreri  says  he  died  at  Cologne;  Toppeus, 
in  Switzerland;  Wachter,  at  Emmerich,  in  Dec.  1G98). 
Leibnitz  wrote  on  him  the  following  epitaph  : 

“Nil  patre  inferior,  jaeet  hie  Hehnontius  alter, 

Qui  juuxit  varias  mentis  et  artis  opes: 

Per  quern  Pythagoras  et  cabbala  sacra  revixit 
Eloeusqne,  parat  qui  sua  cuncta  sibi.” 

Besides  the  alphabet  above  mentioned,  he  wrote  Opus- 
cula  Philosophicu,  quibtts  continentur  prindpia  philoso- 
phiie  antiquissimee  et  recentissimee,  etc.  (Amsterd.  1G90, 
12mo): — Queedam  preemeditatce  et  consider  at  te.  Cogita- 
tiones  super  quutuor  prior  a capita  libri  primi  Moisis, 
Genesis  nominati  (Amst.  1697,  8vo) : — De  Attributis  dl- 
l' inis,  etc.  See  Adelung,  Hist,  de  la  Folk  Immaine , iv, 
294-323  • Moreri,  Grand  diet.  hist. ; Iloefer,  A oar.  Biop. 
Generate,  xxiii,8G4. 

Helmuth,  Justus  Christian  Henry,  D.D.,  a Lu- 
theran minister,  was  born  at  Helmstadt,  in  the  duchy 
of  Brunswick,  in*  1745.  His  father  dying  when  he  was 
yet  a boy,  he  left  home  without  the  knowledge  of  the 
family,  and  was  overtaken  on  the  highway  by  a noble- 
man in  his  carriage,  who  entered  into  a conversation 
with  him,  and  inquired  whither  he  was  going.  The 
lad  informed  him  that  he  had  left  home  because  he  was 
angry  with  God,  having  prayed  earnestly  to  him  during 
his  father’s  illness  for  his  restoration  to  health,  but  God 
had  not  answered  his  petition.  Interested  in  the  artless 
reply  of  the  innocent  boy,  the  nobleman  took  him  into 
his  carriage,  and  afterwards  sent  him  to  Halle  at  his  ex- 
pense, to  be  educated  at  the  Orphan  House,  and  after- 
wards at  the  University.  His  first  sermon  was  preached 
in  the  chapel  of  the  Orphan  House,  and  among  liis  hear- 
ers was  Bogatzkv,  the  author  of  the  Schatz-Kiistlein 
(Golden  Treasury),  who  predicted  the  future  greatness 
of  the  young  preacher.  He  was  ordained  by  the  Con- 
sistorium  at  Wemigerode,  and  was  sent  by  the  theolog- 
ical faculty  at  Halle  as  a missionary  to  America  in  1769. 
The  first  ten  years  of  his  ministry  he  labored  in  Lancas- 
ter, Pa.,  with  great  acceptance.  In  1779  he  accepted  a 
unanimous  call  to  Philadelphia,  where  he  continued  the 
pastoral  work  as  long  as  his  physical  strength  admitted. 
For  eighteen  years  he  was  professor  of  German  and  Ori- 
ental languages  in  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  from 
which  institution  he  received  in  1785  the  degree  of  D.D. 
In  connection  with  his  colleague,  Dr.  Schmidt,  he  organ- 
ized a private  seminary  for  candidates  for  the  Lutheran 
ministry,  which  was  in  operation  twenty  years.  In  the 
pulpit  he  had  more  than  ordinary  power.  His  preach- 
IV.— 31 


ing  was  characterized  by  great  unction  and  overwhelm- 
ing pathos,  and  often  produced  wonderful  results.  Dur- 
ing the  prevalence  of  the  yellow  fever  he  visited  the 
sick  and  dying  without  fear.  He  buried  G25  of  his  mem- 
bers. He  died  in  the  80th  year  of  his  age,  Feb.  5, 1824. 
lie  was  the  author  of  a work  on  Baptism  and  the  tittered 
ticriptures,  published  in  1793;  also  of  a practical  treatise 
on  Communion  with  God ; numerous  devotional  books  for 
children,  and  a volume  of  llvmns.  He  edited  likewise 
the  Evangelical  Magazine,  published  for  some  years  in 
Philadelphia  in  the  German  language.  (31.  L.  8.) 

Heloi'se.  See  Abelard. 

He'loil  (Heb.  Chelon',  *jbn,  strong ; Sept.  XaiXwv), 
the  father  of  Eliab,  which  latter  was  phvlarcli  of  the 
tribe  of  Zebulon  at  the  Exode  (Numb,  i,  9 ; ii,  7 ; vii, 
24,  29;  x,  16).  B.C.  ante  1G58. 

Help,  besides  its  ordinary  signification  of  assistance 
in  general,  has  in  two  passages  of  the  N.  T.  a technical 
application. 

1.  Helps  (Boifoetai),  nautical  apparatus  for  securing 
a vessel,  when  leaking,  by  means  of  ropes,  chains,  etc., 
passed  around  in  the  process  of  “ undergirding”  (q.  v.), 
in  the  emergency  of  a storm  (Acts  xxvii,  17).  See  Ship. 

2.  Helps  (avriXgiptig ; Vulg.  ojntulationes ; 1 Cor. 

xii,  28).  This  Greek  word,  signifying  aids  or  assist- 
ances, has  also  a meaning,  among  others,  corresponding 
to  that  in  this  passage,  in  the  classical  writers  (e.  g. 
Diod.  Sic.  i,  87).  In  the  Sept,  it  answers  to  J-Pd"  (Psa. 
xxii,  19),  to  (Psa.  cviii,  12),  and  to  i‘“HT  (Psa. 

lxxxiii,  8).  It  is  found  in  the  same  sense,  Ecelus.  xi. 
12:  2 Macc.  xi,  26;  and  in  Josephus  (IUor,  iv,  5,  1). 
In  the  N.  T.  it  occurs  once,  viz.  in  the  enumeration  of 
the  several  orders  or  classes  of  persons  possessing  mirac- 
ulous gifts  among  the  primitive  Christians  ( ut  supra), 
where  it  seems  to  be  used  by  metonymy,  the  abstract 
for  the  concrete,  and  to  mean  helpers;  like  the  words 
dvintpug,  “miracles,”  i.  e.  icorlcers  of  miracles;  icvfitp- 
vtjtrtig,  “governments,”  i.  e.  governors , etc.,  in  the  same 
enumeration.  Many  persons  in  this  country,  by  a sim- 
ilar idiom,  call  their  servants  “help.”  Great  difficulty 
attends  the  attempt  to  ascertain  the  nature  of  the  office 
so  designated  among  Christians.  Theophylact  explains 
avrtM/ifeetc  by  ttvTtxtoGai  r« Zv  aoQtvwv,  helping  or  sup- 
porting the  infirm.  So  also  Gennadins,  in  (Ecumcnius. 
But  this  seems  like  an  inference  from  the  etymology 
(see  the  Greek  of  Acts  xx,  35).  It  has  been  assumed  by 
some  eminent  modern  writers  that  the  several  “orders” 
mentioned  in  ver.  28  correspond  respectively  to  the  sev- 
eral “gifts”  of  the  .Spirit  enumerated  in  ver.  8,  9.  In 
order,  however,  to  make  the  two  enumerations  tally,  it 
is  necessary  to  make  “ divers  kinds  of  tongues”  and  “ in- 
terpretation of  tongues”  in  the  one  answer  to  “ diversities 
of  tongues”  in  the  other,  which,  in  the  present  state  of  the 
received  text,  does  not  seem  to  be  a complete  correspond- 
ence. The  result  of  the  collation  is  that  avTi\i]-^tis  an- 
swers to  “prophecy;”  whence  it  has  been  inferred  that 
these  persons  were  such  as  were  qualified  with  the  gift 
of  “lower  prophecy,”  to  help  the  Christians  in  the  pub- 
lic devotions  (Barrington's  Miscellaneu  Sacra,  i,  1GG; 
Mackniglit  on  1 Cor.  xii,  10-28).  Another  result  is  that 
“governments”  answers  to  “discerning  of  spirits.”  To 
both  these  Dr.  Hales  very  reasonably  objects  as  unlike- 
ly, and  pronounces  this  tabular  view  to  be  “perplexed 
and  embarrassing”  (Xew  Analgsis,  etc.,  Lond.  1830,  iii, 
289).  Bishop  Horsley  has  adopted  this  classification 
of  the  gifts  and  office-bearers,  and  points  out  as  “ helps,” 
i.  e.  persons  gifted  with  “prophecies  or  predictions,” 
such  persons  as  Mark,  Tychicus,  Ouesimus.  3 itringa, 
from  a comparison  of  ver.  28,  29,  30,  infers  that  the  ay- 
n\i)\pttg  denote  those  who  had  the  gift  of  interpreting 
foreign  languages  (. De  tignag.  Yet.  ii,  505,  Franqne.  1G9G) ; 
which,  though  certainly  possible,  as  an  arbitrary  use  of 
a very  significant  word,  stands  in  need  of  confirmation 
by  actual  instances.  Dr.  Lightfoot  also,  according  to 
his  biographer,  adopted  the  same  plan  and  arrived  at 


HELP-MEET  178  HELVETIC  CONFESSIONS 


the  same  conclusion  (Strype’s  Life  of  Light  foot,  prefixed 
to  his  JFrnvb,  p.  4,  Loml.  1684).  But  Lightfoot  himself 
explains  the  word  “ persons  who  accompanied  the  apos- 
tles, baptized  those  who  were  converted  by  them,  and 
were  sent  to  places  to  which  they,  being  employed  in 
other  things,  could  not  come,  as  Mark,  Timothy,  Titus.” 
He  observes  (ii,  781)  that  the  Talmudists  sometimes 
call  the  Levites  “Hi'CTS,  “the  helpers  of  the 

priests.”  Similar  catalogues  of  miraculous  gifts  and  of- 
ficers occur  Rom.  xii,  6-8,  and  Epli.  iv,  11, 12;  but  they 
neither  curespond  in  number  nor  in  the  order  of  enu- 
meration. In  the  former,  “prophecy”  stands  first,  and 
in  the  latter  second;  and  in  the  former  many  of  the 
terms  are  of  wide  import,  as  “ ministering,”  while  minute 
distinctions  are  made  between  others,  as  between  “teach- 
ing” and  “exhortation,”  “giving”  and  “showing  mer- 
cy.” Other  writers  pursue  different  methods,  and  ar- 
rive at  different  conclusions.  For  instance,  Hammond, 
arguing  from  the  etymology  of  the  word,  and  from  pas- 
sages in  the  early  writers,  which  describe  the  office  of 
relieving  the  poor  as  peculiarly  connected  with  that  of 
the  apostles  and  bishops  by  the  deacons,  infers  that  dv- 
n\.  “denotes  a special  part  of  the  office  of  those  men 
which  are  set  down  at  the  beginning  of  the  verse.”  He 
also  explains  Kv(3epvgaeig  as  another  part  of  their  office 
(Hammond,  Comment,  ad  loc.).  Schletisner  understands 
“ deacons  who  had  the  care  of  the  sick.”  EosenmUller, 
“Diaconi  qui  pauperibus,  peregrinis,  cegrotis,  mortuis, 
procurandis  pneerant.”  Bishop  Pearce  thinks  that  both 
these  words  may  have  been  originally  put  in  the  margin 
to  explain  Suvdpetg,  “miracles  or  powers,”  and  urges 
that  dvnX.  is  nowhere  mentioned  as  a gift  of  the  Spirit, 
and  that  it  is  not  recapitulated  in  ver.  29,  30.  Certainly 
the  omission  of  these  two  words  would  nearly  produce 
exactitude  in  the  recapitulation.  Bowyer  adopts  the 
same  conjecture,  but  it  is  without  support  from  MSS.  or 
versions.  He  also  observes  that  to  the  end  of  ver.  28 
some  copies  of  the  Vulgate  add  “ interpretationes  sermo- 
liimi,”  tpprjvtiag  yXiaooiSbv ; as  also  the  later  Syriac, 
Hilary,  and  Ambrose.  This  addition  -would  make  the 
recapitulation  perfect.  Chrysostom  and  all  the  Greek 
interpreters  consider  the  drn\.  and  icvfiepv.  as  import- 
ing the  same  thing , namely,  functionaries  so  called  with 
reference  to  the  two  different  parts  of  their  office:  the 
uvrtX.  superintending  the  care  of  the  poor,  sick,  and 
strangers;  the  icvf3tpv.  the  burial  of  the  dead  and  the 
executorship  of  their  effects,  including  the  care  of  their 
widows  and  orphans,  rather  managers  than  governors 
(Blomfield’s  Recensio  Sgnopt.).  After  all,  it  must  be  con- 
fessed, with  Doddridge,  that  “ we  can  only  guess  at  the 
meaning  of  the  words  in  question,  having  no  principles 
on  which  to  proceed  in  fixing  it  absolutely”  ( Family 
Expositor,  on  1 Cor.  xii,  28).  (See  Alberti,  Glossar.  p. 
123;  Suicer,  Thesaurus,  in  voc.;  Salmasins,  lie  Fcenore 
Trapezitico,  p.  409,  Wolfii  Curie  Philolog.  Basil.  1741.) 
— Kitto,  s.  v.  Stanley  remarks  ( Comment . ad  loc.)  that 
the  word  “ dvrtXijif/tg,  as  used  in  the  Sept.,  is  not  (like 
ciaKoina)  help  ministered  by  an  inferior  to  a superior,  but 
by  a superior  to  an  inferior  (comp.  Psa.  lxxxix,  18 ; Ec- 
clus.  xi,  12  ; li,  7),  and  thus  is  inapplicable  to  the  minis- 
trations of  the  deacon  to  the  presbyter.”  Probably  it 
is  a general  term  (hence  the  plur.)  to  include  those  occa- 
sional labors  of  evangelists  and  special  laborers,  such  as 
Apollos  in  ancient  times  and  eminent  revivalists  in  mod- 
ern days,  who  have  from  time  to  time  been  raised  up  as 
powerful  but  independent  promoters  of  the  Gospel.  See 
Gifts,  Spiritual. 

Help-meet  (or  rather,  as  the  best  editions  of  the 
Bible  now  punctuate  it,  help  meet  for  him,  Ip  3 3 
e'zer,ke-negdo',  a help  as  his  counterpart,  i.  e.  an  aid  sui  t- 
able and  supplementary  to  him),  a delicate  and  beauti- 
ful designation  of  a wife  (Gen.  ii,  18-20),  which  exactly 
expresses  her  relation.  See  Marriage. 

Helve  Cp;,  ets,  irood,  as  often  elsewhere),  the  han- 
dle or  wooden  part  of  an  axe  (Deut.  xix,  5).  See  Axe  ; 
Tree. 


Helvetic  Confessions,  the  later  Confessions  of 
faith  of  the  Reformed  churches  of  Switzerland.  See 
Basle,  Confessions  of. 

I.  The  Confessio  Helvetica,  prior  (the  second  Confes- 
sion of  Basle)  was  framed  by  a convention  of  delegates 
from  Basle,  Zurich,  Berne,  Schaff hausen,  Mulhauscn,  St. 
Gall,  and  Biel,  which  began  its  sessions  at  Basle  Jan.  30, 
1536.  Among  the  eminent  theologians  who  took  part 
in  it  were  Megander  of  Berne,  Grynoeus  and  Myconius 
of  Basle,  Leo  Judaj  and  Bullinger  of  Zurich.  During 
their  sessions,  Bucer  and  Capito,  who  were  striving  earn- 
estly to  unite  the  Lutheran  and  Reformed  churches,  ar- 
rived in  Basle,  and  seem  to  have  exercised  a decided  in- 
fluence in  the  formation  of  the  Confession,  though  they 
had  no  vote  in  the  Convention.  The  Confession  wat 
drawn  up  by  Bullinger,  Myconius,  and  Grynams,  in  Lab 
in,  and  translated  into  German  by  Leo  Judaj  (Augusti, 
Lib.  Synib.  Reform,  p.  626).  In  March,  1536,  it  was  adopt- 
ed as  the  standard  of  doctrine.  It  consists  of  twenty- 
seven  short  articles : i-v,  of  Scripture  and  Tradition ; vi, 
of  God ; vii,  viii,  of  Man,  the  Fall,  and  Original  Sin ; ix, 
of  Free  Will ; x-xiii,  the  Person  and  Work  of  Christ  as 
Saviour;  xiv-xix,  the  Church  and  Ministry;  xx-xxiv, 
the  Sacraments;  xxvi.  Civil  Government;  xxvii,  Mar- 
riage. The  Latin  title  of  the  Confession  is  Ecclesiarum 
per  Helretiam  Confessio  fidei  summuria  et  genercilis , com- 
posita  Basilece,  A.D.  1536.  It  is  Calvinistic  and  (mod- 
erately) Zwinglian  in  doctrine.  The  Confession,  in  both 
German  and  Latin,  is  given  in  Niemcver,  Colleciio  Con- 
fessiomnn,  p.  105-122. 

II.  Confessio  Helvetica  Posterior,  the  second  Helvetic 
Confession,  A.D.  1566.  The  first  Confession  above  men- 
tioned, though  generally  received,  did  not  give  universal 
satisfaction  in  Switzerland,  especially  as  it  was  believed 
that  the  Lutheran  influence  had  been  allowed  to  operate 
in  its  formation.  Bullinger  undertook  to  revise  it,  and, 
at  the  request  of  the  elector  Palatine,  Frederick  III,  he 
finished  the  work,  with  the  aid  of  Beza  and  Gualter,  and 
handed  over  the  Confession,  thus  prepared,  to  the  elec- 
tor, who  printed  it  in  German,  and  adopted  it  (A.D. 
1565)  as  the  Reformed  standard  in  his  territory.  The 
elector  also  made  use  of  it  to  vindicate  the  Reformed 
doctrines  against  the  Lutherans  at  the  Diet  of  Augsburg, 
January,  1566.  The  attention  of  the  Swiss  churches 


HELVETIC  CONSENSUS  179  IIELVETIUS 


was  called  to  this  revised  Confession  as  a standard  under 
which  they  could  all  agree.  By  the  year  1578  the  Con- 
fession had  received  the  sanction  of  the  Swiss  cantons, 
and  had  also  been  approved  by  the  Keformed  churches 
of  Poland,  Hungary,  Scotland,  and  France  (the  latter  re- 
ceiving it  in  Beza’s  translation).  It  adopts  Calvin’s  doc- 
trine on  the  Lord's  Supper,  but  “presents  the  Augnstin- 
ian  doctrine  of  election  in  a mild  form,  far  behind  Cal- 
vin” (Gicselcr,  Church  History,  ed.  H.  B.  Smith,  iv,  422). 
No  Keformed  Confession  has  been  more  widely  diffused. 
The  title  of  the  Confession  is  Confessio  et  Expositio  Bre- 
vis et  Simplex  sincerce  Religionis  Christiana ?.  It  consists 
of  thirty  chapters : chaps,  i and  ii  treat  of  the  Scrip- 
tures, Tradition,  etc.;  iii,  of  God  and  the  Trinity;  iv 
and  v,  of  Idols  or  Images  of  God,  Christ,  and  the  Saints, 
and  of  the  Worship  of  God  through  Christ,  the  sole  ^Me- 
diator ; vi,  of  Providence ; vii,  of  the  Creation  of  all 
Things,  of  Angels,  Devils,  Man ; viii,  of  Sin  and  the  Fall 
of  Man;  ix,  of  Free  Will.  The  condition  of  man  after 
the  fall  is  thus  stated : Aon  snblatus  est  quidem  homini 
intellectus,  non  erepta  ei  voluntas,  et  prorsus  in  laqndem 
rel  truncum  est  cominutatus  (The  intellect  of  mail  was  not 
taken  away  by  the  fall,  nor  was  he  robbed  of  will,  and 
changed  into  a stock  or  stone).  Art.  x treats  of  Predes- 
tination and  Election.  The  second  paragraph  runs  thus : 
Ergo  non  sine  medio,  licet  non  propter  vllum  meritum  nos- 
trum, sed  in  Christo  et  propter  Christum,  nos  elegit  Deus, 
nt  qui  jam  in  Christo  insiti  per  Jidem,  illi  ipsi  etiam  sint 
electi,  reprohi  vero , qui  sunt  extra  Christum,  secundum  il- 
lud  Apostoli,  2 Cor.  xiii,  5 (Therefore,  not  without  a me- 
dium, though  not  on  account  of  any  merit  of  ours,  but 
in  Christ,  and  on  account  of  Christ,  God  elected  us;  so 
that  they  who  are  ingrafted  in  Christ  by  faith  are  the 
elect,  while  the  reprobate  are  those  who  are  out  of  Christ, 
according  to  the  apostle,  in  2 Cor.  xiii,  5).  This  chap- 
ter has  been  the  subject  of  much  controversy,  both  Cal- 
vinists and  Arminians  finding  their  own  doctrine  in  it. 
Chap,  xi  treats  of  Christ  as  God-man,  the  only  Saviour ; 
xii  and  xiii,  of  the  Law  and  the  Gospel ; xiv-xvi,  of 
Repentance  and  of  Justification  by  Faith ; xvii-xxii,  of 
the  Church,  the  Ministry,  the  Sacraments;  xxiii  and 
xxiv,  of  Assemblies,  Worship,  Feasts,  and  Fasts;  xxv- 
xxix,  Catechism,  Rites,  Ceremonies,  etc. ; xxx,  of  the 
Civil  Magistracy.  This  Confession  is  given  hi  Latin  hi 
the  Sylloge  Confessionum  (Oxon.  1827,  8vo) ; by  Nie- 
meyer,  Collectio  Confessionum,  p.  4G2  sq. ; b}r  Augusti, 
Corpus  Librarum  Symbolicorum,  p.  1-102.  A tercen- 
tenary edition,  edited  by  Dr.  E.  Bohl,  was  published  at 
Vienna,  1865  (120  pp.  8vo).  See  Gieseler,  Church  His- 
tory, 1.  c. ; Sliedd,  History  of  Doctrines,  ii,  469 ; Hagen- 
bach,  History  of  Doctrines,  § 221 ; Fritzsclie,  Coif.  Ilelv. 
Posterior,  Zurich,  1839;  Augusti,  Alin,  christl.  Sumbolik, 

1861,  p.  158. 

Helvetic  Consensus  {Formula  Consensus  Hel- 
vetica), a confession  of  faith  drawn  up  hi  1675  by  J.  G. 
Heidegger  at  the  request  of  the  Calvinistic  divines  of 
Switzerland.  It  was  chiefly  designed  to  restrain  the 
progress  of  the  mitigated  Calvinism  of  Amyraldus  and 
the  school  of  Saumur  generally,  which  was  spreading  in 
Switzerland.  See  Ajiykaldus.  Turretin,  Zwinger, 
Werenfels,  Hottingcr,  and  other  Swiss  theologians  aided 
in  its  preparation,  but  its  form  is  chiefly  due  to  Heideg- 
ger. 

It  consists  of  a preface  and  twenty-six  canons.  Can- 
ons 1-3  treat  of  the  Scriptures ; and  the  second  (against 
Cappel)  maintains  that  the  Hebrew  text  is  to  be  re- 
ceived as  divinely  inspired,  not  only  as  to  the  substance, 
but  as  to  the  very  words,  consonants,  vowels,  and  vowel-  ' 
points  (turn  quoad  consonas,  turn  quoad  rocalia,  sire 
puncta  ipsa,  sice  punctomm  saltern  potestatem,  et  turn 
quoad  res,  turn  quoad  verba  QeoTrvtvarc.g).  The  remain- 
ing canons  are  chiefly  occupied  with  definitions  of  the 
Calvinistic  view  of  predestination,  sin,  grace,  the  ex- 
tent of  the  atonement,  etc.,  all  which  are  set  forth  in 
language  as  decided  as  that  cited  above  with  regard  to 
the  Scriptures.  The  Formula  is  given  in  full  by  Au- 
gusti {Corpus  Libr.  Symbol.  Reform,  p.  443  sq.)  and  by 


Niemeyer  ( Collectio  Confess. p. 729).  Within  a year  from 
its  promulgation  it  was  adopted  by  the  magistrates 
of  Basle,  Zurich,  Berne,  etc.,  but  it  was  not  received 
at  Geneva  until  1679.  It  was  finally  made  authorita- 
tive throughout  Switzerland : all  ministers,  teachers, 
and  professors  were  bound  to  subscribe  to  it;  and  it  was 
ordained  that  no  candidate  for  the  ministry  should  be 
admitted  except  upon  declaration  that  he  received  it  ex 
animo  (Augusti,  1.  c.  p.  646).  But  these  strong  meas- 
ures, together  with  the  influence  of  the  French  clergy, 
and  especially  the  intercession  of  Frederick  William  of 
Brandeuburgh,  produced  a reaction;  and  in  1686  the 
magistrates  of  Basle  allowed  the  admission  of  candidates 
without  subscription  to  the  Formula.  By  170G  its  strict 
obligation  had  fallen  into  disuse  at  Geneva.  In  the 
other  cantons  it  was  still  retained,  but  gave  rise  to  long 
conflicts.  In  1722  the  kings  of  Prussia  and  England 
sent  letters  to  the  Swiss  Cantons,  for  the  sake  of  the 
unity  and  peace  of  Protestantism,  to  drop  the  use  of  the 
Formula  as  a binding  creed.  In  1723  they  renewed 
these  letters  to  the  same  purpose.  By  1740  the  For- 
mula had  fallen  entirely  into  disuse.  “ It  never  ac- 
quired authority  outside  of  Switzerland.  Within  about 
fifty  years  it  was  abrogated.  One  of  the  strongest  ad- 
vocates of  this  last  measure  was  Turretin’s  own  son, 
Alphonso  Turretin,  who  was  as  zealous  in  opposing  as 
his  father  had  been  in  advocating  it.  If  there  was  ever 
a creed  which  deserves  to  be  called  the  manifesto  of  a 
theological  party  rather  than  a confession  of  faith  on 
the  part  of  the  Church,  the  Formula  Consensus  is  that 
one”  (Fisher,  in  New  Englander,  J uly,  1 868,  p.  502).  See 
Hottinger,  Fonnulce  Consensus  Historia  (1723,  4to),  in 
favor  of  the  Consensus;  Tfaff,  Schediasma  theol.  de  Form. 
Consens.  Ilelvet.  (Tubingen,  1723,  4to),  on  the  Lutheran 
side;  Schrockh,  Kircheng.  seit  der  Reformation , viii,  C59 
sq. ; Barnaud,  Memoires  pour  servir  a I'histoire  des  trou- 
bles a V occasion  du  Consensus  (Amst.  1726,  8vo);  Mos- 
heim,  Ch.  History,  cent,  xvii,  pt.  ii,  ch.  iii ; Trcehsel,  in 
Herzog,  Reed-Encyklop.  v,  719  sq, ; Sliedd,  Hist,  of  Doc- 
trines, ii,  472;  Augusti,  Ally,  christl.  Symbolic,  1861,  p. 
160;  Scliweizer,  in  Zeitschrift  fur  d.  hist.  Theol.  1860,  p. 
122 ; Hagenbach,  History  of  Doctrines,  cd.  H.  B.  Smith, 
§ 222,  and  references  there. 

Helvetius,  Claude  Adriex,  a French  infidel,  was 
born  in  Paris  in  January,  1715,  and  was  educated  by  the 
Jesuits  at  the  College  of  Louis-le-Grand.  He  after- 
wards studied  law  and  finance,  and,  through  the  influ- 
ence of  queen  Maria  Leczinska,  became  a farmer-gener- 
al. His  life  was  disorderly  up  to  the  time  of  his  mar- 
riage in  1751.  In  1758  he  published  his  De  V Esprit, 
which  was  a summary  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Encyclo- 
pedic. The  book  was  bitterly  denounced;  and,  “to  re- 
gain the  favor  of  the  court,  Helvetius  successively  pub- 
lished three  letters  of  apology  which  gradually  advanced 
in  humility  and  submission.  Notwithstanding  the  con- 
fession which  they  contained  of  a Christian  faith,  and 
his  disclaimer  of  all  opinions  inconsistent  with  its  spirit, 
the  doctors  of  the  Sorbonne  drew  up  a formal  condem- 
nation of  the  work,  which  they  declared  to  be  a com- 
pendium of  all  the  evil  contained  in  all  the  bad  books 
that  had  vet  appeared.  It  was  publicly  burned,  accord- 
ing to  a decree  of  the  Parliament  of  Paris.”  The  style 
of  the  book  is  vicious  and  declamatory.  Helvetius  died 
at  Paris  Dec.  26, 1771,  leaving  a work  behind  him  enti- 
tled De  I'llonme.  de  ses  Facultes,  et  de  son  Education, 
which  was  published  the  same  year  at  London  and  Am- 
sterdam by  prince  Gallitzin,  2 vols.  8vo.  “By  esprit 
Helvetius  understood  as  well  the  mental  faculties  as  the 
ideas  acquired  by  them.  Both  faculties  and  ideas  he 
reduced  to  simple  sensation,  and  he  accounts  for  man’s 
superiority  over  the  brutes  by  the  finer  organism  of  his 
senses  and  the  structure  of  his  hands.  Man,  he  consid- 
ers, is  the  work  of  nature,  but  his  intelligence  and  virtue 
are  the  fruit  of  education.  The  end  of  virtue  is  happi- 
ness, and  utility  determines  the  value  of  all  actions,  of 
which  those  are  virtuous  which  are  generally  useful. 
Utility  and  inutility  are,  however,  merely  relative,  and 


HELVICUS 


180 


HEMDAN 


there  is  consequently  nothing  which  is  either  absolutely 
good,  or  absolutely  evil.  The  happiness  and  enlight- 
enment of  the  people  he  makes  to  be  the  true  end  of  all 
human  government ; and,  denying  a divine  Providence 
in  the  government  of  the  world,  he  declares  all  religion 
to  be  a cheat  and  a prejudice”  {Engl  Cyclopaedia,*,,  v.). 
His  system  is  simply  the  lowest  materialism.  There 
have  been  several  editions  of  his  complete  works  (Lond. 
1777,  2 vols.  4to;  1794,  5 vols.  8vo;  Paris,  1795, 14  vols. 
l8mo,  ed.  by  Lefebvre;  Paris,  1818,  3 vols.  8vo).  See 
St.  Lambert,  Essai  sur  la  Vie  et  les  Ouvrages  d'Helvetius; 
English  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v. ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate, 
xxiii,  885 ; Morell,  History  of  Modern  Philosophy,  p.  1 10, 
337 ; Remusat,  in  Re  cue  d.  deux  Mondes,  Aug.  15,  1858 ; 
Farrar,  Critical  History  of  Free  Thought,  lect.  v. 

Helvicus  (Helyvig),  Christoph,  was  bom  Dec. 
2G,  1581,  at  Sprendlingen,  Darmstadt,  where  his  father 
was  minister.  He  studied  at  Marburg,  and  was  able  to 
teach  Hebrew  at  twenty.  It  is  said  that  he  spoke  He- 
brew as  freely  as  his  mother  tongue.  In  1G05  he  was 
made  professor  of  Greek  and  Hebrew  at  the  School  of 
Giessen,  which  in  1G0G  was  erected  into  a university  by 
the  landgrave.  In  1G10  he  was  made  professor  of  di- 
vinity. He  died  Sept.  10,  1G17.  His  most  important 
work  is  Tkeatrinn  JJistoricum  et  Chronologicum  sice 
Chronologies  Systema  novum  (1G10,  often  reprinted,  and 
translated  into  English) ; also  a Chronologia  Universalis 
(1G12). — Bayle,  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Helvidius,  a so-ealled  lieresiarch  of  the  4th  centu- 
ry, a layman  who  opposed  the  growing  superstitions  of 
the  Church,  and  especially  the  nascent  worship  of  the 
Virgin  Mary.  He  was  a pupil  of  Auxentius,  bishop  of 
Milan,  and  the  precursor  of  Jovinian  (q.  v.).  Jerome 
was  at  the  time  preaching  the  “gospel  of  celibacy,”  and 
Helvidius  opposed  this  tendency  also.  He  maintained 
that  51  arv  had  other  children  besides  Jesus,  and  sup- 
ported his  opinion  by  the  X.  Test.,  and  by  the  authority 
of  Tertullian  and  Victorinus.  “ lie  affirmed  also  that 
bv  this  opinion  he  in  nowise  infringed  on  the  honor  of 
Mary.  He  attacked  also  the  exaggerated  undervalua- 
tion of  married  life.  He  quoted  the  examples  of  the 
patriarchs,  who  had  maintained  a pious  life  in  wedlock ; 
‘while,  on  the  other  hand,  he  referred  to  the  examples 
of  such  virgins  as  had  by  no  means  lived  up  to  their 
calling.  These  opinions  of  Helvidius  might  lead  us  to 
conclude  that  the  combating  of  a one-sided  ascetic  spirit 
was  a matter  of  still  more  weight  with  him  than  the 
defence  of  his  views  with  regard  to  Mary.  Perhaps, 
also,  he  may  have  been  led  into  these  views  simply  by 
exegetical  inquiries  and  observations,  and  so  had  been 
drawn  into  this  opposition  to  the  overvaluation  of  celi- 
bacy merely  for  the  purpose  of  defending  his  opinion 
against  an  objection  on  the  score  of  propriety”  (Nean- 
der,  Ch.  Hist.,  Torrey’s,  ii,  340).  Augustine  (De  Hares. 
c.  84)  calls  his  followers  llclridiani.  Jerome  wrote,  a 
treatise  against  him  (adv.  Ilelvidium),  in  which  we  find 
some  passages  of  Helvidius’s  writings.  See  Epiphanius, 
lhtres.  e.  70,  78;  Augustine,  Hares,  c.  5G,  84;  Neander, 
1.  c. 

Helyot,  Pierre,  a Franciscan  monk  of  great  learn- 
ing (known  also  as  father  IIiitolytus),  was  born  at 
Paris  in  1GG0,  and  died  in  171G.  lie  went  twice  to 
Rome  on  business  of  the  order,  and  travelled  through 
the  whole  of  France.  He  is  chiefly  distinguished  as 
the  author  of  the  IJistoire  des  ordres  monastiques  reli- 
gieux  et  militaires  (Paris,  1714-21,  8 vols.  4to),  of  which 
lie  gathered  the  materials  during  his  travels,  and  which 
is  to  this  day  the  most  complete  work  of  the  kind, 
though  several  of  the  orders  are  not  treated  in  it.  He 
died  during  the  publication  of  the  fifth  volume,  and  the 
work  was  finished  by  Bullot.  A new  edition  by  Migne 
appeared  at  Paris  in  1847-50  (4  vols.  royal  8vo).  See 
Lelong,  Bibl.  histor,  de  la  France ; Querard,  Lu  France 
litter. ; Hoefer,  None.  Biog.  Gener.  xxiii,  893. 

Hem  of  a Garment  (^113,  shul,  Exod.  xxviii,  33, 
34 ; xxxix.  24-26 ; elsewhere  the  “skirt”  of  a robe ; icpd- 


<T7m’>ov,Matt.ix,20;  xiv,30;  elsewhere  “border”).  The 
importance  which  the  later  Jews,  especially  the  Phari- 
sees (Matt,  xxiii,  5),  attached  to  the  hem  or  fringe  of 
their  garments  was  founded  upon  the  regulation  in 
Numb,  xv,  38, 39,  which  ascribed  a symbolical  meaning 
to  it.  We  must  not,  however,  conclude  that  the  fringe 
owed  its  origin  to  that  passage;  it  was  in  the  first  in- 
stance the  ordinary  mode  of  finishing  the  robe,  the  ends 
of  the  threads  composing  the  woof  being  left  in  order 
to  prevent  the  cloth  from  unravelling,  just  as  in  the 
Egyptian  caktsiris  (Herod,  ii,  81 ; see  Wilkinson’s  Anc. 
Egyptians,  ii,  90),  and  in  the  Assyrian  robes  as  repre- 
sented in  the  bas-reliefs  of  Nineveh,  the  blue  ribbon  be- 
ing added  to  strengthen  the  border.  The  Hebrew  word 
rS-'S,  tsitsith',  “fringe”  (Numb,  xv,  38,  39),  is  express- 
ive of  the  fretted  edge:  the  Greek  tcpcioTnCa  (the  ety- 
mology of  which  is  uncertain,  being  variously  traced  to 
KpooooQ,  CiKpoQ  Tricon,  and  KOtimg)  applies  to  the  edge 
of  a river  or  mountain  (Xenopli.  Hist.  Gr.  iii,  2,  § 16; 
iv,  6,  § 8),  and  is  explained  by  Ilesyeliius  as  rd  iv  T(ji 
UKpiy  tov  tpariov  KtKXtnoptva  pay  para  Kai  to  coop  of 
avrou.  The  beged  or  outer  robe  was  a simple  quadran- 
gular piece  of  cloth,  and  generally  so  worn  that  two  of 
the  corners  hung  down  in  front:  these  comers  were  or- 
namented with  a “ ribbon  of  blue,”  or,  rather,  dark  vio- 
let, the  ribbon  itself  being,  as  we  may  conclude  from  the 
word  used,  as  narrow  as  a thread  or  piece  of 

string.  The  Jews  attached  great  sanctity  to  this  fringe 
(Matt,  ix,  20;  xiv,  3G;  Luke  viii,  44),  and  the  Pharisees 
made  it  more  prominent  than  it  was  originally  designed 
to  be,  enlarging  both  the  fringe  and  the  ribbon  to  an 
undue  width  (Matt,  xxiii,  5).  Directions  were  given 
as  to  the  number  of  threads  of  which  it  ought  to  be 
composed,  and  other  particulars,  to  each  of  which  a 
symbolical  meaning  was  attached  (Carpzov,  A pparat.  p. 
198).  It  was  appended  in  later  times  to  the  talith  more 
especially,  as  being  the  rolie  usually  worn  at  devotions, 
whence  the  proverbial  saying  quoted  by  Lightfoot  ( Ex- 
ercit.  on  Matt,  v,  40),  “lie  that  takes  care  of  his  fringes 
deserves  a good  coat”  (see  Hilder,  De  llebraor.  restib. 
frimbriatis,  Tubingen,  1701). — Smith.  See  Fringe. 

He'mam  (Gen.  xxxvi,  22).  See  Homam. 
Heman  (Heb.  Ileyman',  i.  q«  Chald. 

faithful;  Sept.  Aipdv  or  Aipdv,  v.  r.  ’Apdv,  ‘Avdv,  Ai- 
poudp,  etc.),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  A person  named  with  three  others  celebrated  for 
their  wisdom,  to  which  that  of  Solomon  is  compared  (1 
Kings  iv,  31),  probably  the  same  as  the  son  of  Zerah 
and  grandson  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  ii,  G).  B.C.  post  185G. 
See  Etiian. 

2.  Son  of  Joel,  and  grandson  of  Samuel,  a Koliathite 
of  the  tribe  of  Levi,  and  one  of  the  leaders  of  the  Tem- 
ple music  as  organized  by  David  (1  Chron.  vi,  33;  xv, 
17;  xvi, 41,42).  B.C.  1014.  This,  probably,  is  the  He- 
man  to  whom  the  88th  Psalm  is  ascribed.  He  had  four- 
teen sons  and  three  daughters  (1  Chron.  xxv,  5),  some 
of  whom  are  enumerated  in  ver.  4.  Asaph,  llcman,  and 
Jeduthun  are  termed  “seers”  in  2 Chron.  xxix,  14,  30; 
xxxv,  15,  which  refers  rather  to  their  genius  as  sacred 
musicians  than  to  their  possessing  the  spirit  of  proph- 
ecy (1  Chron.  xv,  19;  xxv,  1 ; 2 Chron.  v,  12),  although 
there  is  not  wanting  evidence  of  their  occasional  inspi- 
ration. See  Asatii. 

He'math  (Heb.  Chammath',  the  same  name 
as  Hammath;  Sept.  AipdSr ; Vulg.  translates  calor),  a 
Kenite,  ancestor  of  the  Rechabitcs  (1  Chron.  ii,  55).  B.C. 
prob.  eir.  1612.  “ Ilemath,”  in  Amos  vi,  14,  is  an  incor- 
rect Anglicized  form  of  rV2P>  ( Chamath ',  Sept.  AlpdS  v. 
r.  ’Epa$,  Vulg.  ihnath),  the  city  Hamath,  q.  v. 

Hem’dan  (Heb.  Cliemdan',  ‘p’CH, pleasant;  Sept. 
’A paSd,  Vulgate  Ilemdam),  the  first  named  of  the  four 
“children”  of  Dishon,  which  latter  was  a son  of  Seir  and 
one  of  the  Horite  “dukes”  antecedent  to  the  supremacy 
of  the  Edomites  in  Mt.  Seir  (Gen.  xxxvi,  2G).  B.C.  cir. 


IIEMER0BAPTIST7E 


181 


HEM3IERLIX 


1964.  In  1 Cliron.  i,  41,  the  name  is,  by  an  error  of 
transcribers,  written  Ilamran  (Vleb.  Chamran 
Sept,  correctly  ’Apatii,  Vulg.  Ilmnrwn,  Eng.  Vers.  “Am- 
ram”).  “The  name  Henulan  is  by  Knobel  ( Genesis , p. 
256)  compared  with  those  of  Humeidy  and  Hamady,  two 
of  tlie  live  families  of  the  tribe  of^Omran  or  Amran,who 
are  located  to  the  E.  and  S.E.  of  Akaba  (Robinson,  Re- 
searches, i,  268) ; also  with  the  Bene-llamyile , who  are 
found  a short  distance  S.  of  Kerek  (S.E.  corner  of  the 
Dead  Sea) ; and  from  thence  to  El-Busaireh,  probably 
the  ancient  Buzrah,  on  the  road  to  Petra.  (See  Burck- 
hardt,  Syria,  etc.,  p.  695,  407.)” — Smith. 

Hemerobaptistae  (t)pepo(3a7rTt(Trat).  Eusebius 
(Hist.  Eeeles.  iv,  22)  cites  from  Hegesippus  a list  of  her- 
esies prevalent  among  the  Jews,  and  names,  as  one  of 
the  heretical  sects,  the  lleinerohaptistce.  Epiphanius 
(Ilasres.  xvii)  also  names  this  sect,  and  derives  their 
name  from  the  fact  that  they  hold  daily  ablutions  to  be 
essential  to  salvation  (see  also  A post. Const,  lib.  vi,  cap. 
vi).  Mosheim  ( Commentaries , Introd.  chap,  ii,  § 9,  en- 
deavors to  show  that  the  so-eallcd  “ Christians  of  St. 
John”  are  descended  from  these  ancient  Ilemerobaptists. 
See  Suicer,  Thesainns  (Amst.  1728),  i,  1331;  and  the  ar- 
ticles Christians  of  St.John;  Mendeans. 

Heminge.  See  Hemming. 

Hemlock  appears  in  the  Auth.  Vers,  as  the  render- 
ing of  two  Heb.  words  in  some  of  the  passages  where 
they  occur. 

1.  Rosh  (’lix"!  and  w''T"i)  is  thought  originally  to  sig- 
nify “poison,"  and  is  therefore  supposed  to  indicate  a 
poisonous,  or,  at  least,  a bitter  plant.  This  we  may  infer 
from  its  being  frequently  mentioned  along  with  laanah 
or  “ wormwood,”  as  in  Deut.  xxix,  18,  “ Lest  there  should 
be  among  you  a root  that  beareth  gall  (rosh)  and  worm- 
wood (laanah)'"  so  also  in  Jer.  ix,  15;  xxiii,  15;  and  in 
Lam.  iii,  19,  “ Remembering  mine  affliction  and  my  mis- 
ery, the  tconmrood  and  the  gall."  That  it  was  a berry- 
bearing plant  has  been  inferred  from  Denr.  xxxii,  32, 
“ For  their  vine  is  of  the  vine  of  Sodom,  and  their  grapes 
are  grapes  of  gall  (rosh)  ; their  clusters  are  bitter.”  In 
Jer.  viii,  14;  ix,  15;  xxiii,  15,  “water  of  gedU  (rosh)  is 
mentioned,  which  may  be  either  the  expressed  juice  of 
the  fruit  or  of  the  plant,  or  a bitter  infusion  made  from 
it.  That  it  was  a plant  is  very  evident  from  Hosea  x,4, 
where  it  is  said  “their  judgment  springetli  up  as  hem- 
lock (rosh)  in  the  furrows  of  the  field ;”  also  in  Amos  vi, 
12,  “For  ye  have  turned  judgment  into  gall  (laanah, 
‘wormwood’),  and  the  fruit  of  righteousness  into  hem- 
lock (rosh)."  The  only  other  passages  where  it  occurs 
are  in  speaking  of  the  “ poison”  (Job  xx,  16)  or  “ venom” 
of  asps  (Deut.  xxii,  33),  or  “gall”  in  a figurative  sense 
for  sorrow  (Lam.  iii,  5),  or  as  food  (Psa.  lxix,  21).  See 
Gale;  Poison. 

Though  rosh  is  generally  acknowledged  to  indicate 
some  plant,  yet  a variety  of  opinions  have  been  enter- 
tained respecting  its  identification:  some,  as  the  Auth. 
Vers,  in  Hosea  x,  4,  and  Amos  vi,  12,  consider  cicuta  or 
hemlock  to  be  the  plant  intended.  Tremellius  adopts 
this  as  the  meaning  of  rosh  in  all  the  passages,  and  is 
followed  by  Celsius  (Uierobot.  ii,  49).  The  cicuta  of  the 
Romans,  the  Ktcvetov  of  the  Greeks,  is  generally  acknowl- 
edged to  have  been  what  we  now  call  hemlock,  the  coni- 
vm  maevtatum  ot  botanists.  There  can  be  no  doubt  of 
its  poisonous  nature  (Pliny,  Hist. Nat.  xxv,  13).  Celsius 
quotes  the  description  of  Linnams  in  support  of  its 
growing  in  the  furrows  of  fields,  but  it  docs  not  appear 
to  be  so  common  in  Syria.  Celsius,  however,  adduces 
Ben-Melech,  the  most  learned  of  Rabbins,  as  being  of 
opinion  that  rosh  was  conium  or  hemlock.  But  there 
does  not  appear  any  necessity  for  our  considering  rosh 
to  have  been  more  poisonous  than  laanah  or  womucood, 
with  which  it  is  associated  so  frequently  as  to  appear 
like  a proverbial  expression  (Deut.  xxix,  18 ; Jer.  ix,  15 ; 
xxiii,  15;  Lam.  iii,  19;  Amos  vi,  12).  The  Sept,  trans- 
lators render  it  agrostis,  intending  some  species  of  grass. 
Hence  some  have  concluded  that  it  must  be  lolium  temu- 


lentum,  or  darnel,  the  zizanium  of  the  ancients;  while 
others  have  thought  that  some  of  the  solaneee  or  luridcc 
of  Linnaeus,  as  the  helhulonmi  or  the  solanun  nigrum, 
common  nightshade,  or  still,  again,  the  henbane,  is  in- 
tended. But  no  proof  appears  in  favor  of  any  of  this 
tribe,  and  their  sensible  properties  arc  not  so  remarkably 
disagreeable  as  to  have  led  to  their  being  employed  in 
what  appears  to  be  a proverbial  expression.  Hiller,  in 
his  Hierophyticon  (ii,  54),  adduces  the  centaury  as  a Ut- 
ter plant,  which,  like  others  of  the  tribe  of  gentians, 
might  answer  all  the  passages  in  which  rosh  is  mention- 
ed, with  the  exception  of  that  (Dent,  xxxii,  32)  where 
it  is  supposed  to  have  a berried  fruit.  Dr.  Harris,  quot- 
ing Blavney  on  Jer.  viii,  14,  says, « In  Psa.  lxix,  21,  which 
is  justly  considered  as  a prophecy  of  our  Saviour’s  suf- 
ferings, it  is  said, ‘They  gave  me  rosh  to  eat,’  which 
the  Sept,  have  rendered  yoA  /)  v,  gall.  Accordingly,  it  is 
recorded  in  the  history,  Matt,  xxvii,  34,  ‘ They  gave  him 
vinegar  to  drink,  mingled  with  gall,’  v%og  peril  yoA/Jf. 
But  in  the  parallel  passage  (Mark  xv,  23)  it  is  said  to 
be  ‘wine  mingled  with  myrrh,’  a very  bitter  ingredi- 
ent. From  whence  I am  induced  to  think  that  yoAj), 
and  perhaps  rosh,  may  be  used  as  a general  name  for 
whatever  is  exceedingly  bitter:  and,  consequently,  when 
the  sense  requires,  it  may  be  put  specially  for  any  bitter 
herb  or  plant,  the  infusion  of  which  may  be  called  ‘wa- 
ters of  rosh.'  ” — Kitto.  See  Myrrii. 

2.  Laanah'  occurs  in  the  passages  above 

cited  and  in  a few  others,  where  it  is  translated  “worm- 
wood” (Deut.  xxix,  18;  Prov.  v,  4;  Jer.  ix,  15;  xxiii, 
15;  Lam.  iii,  15,  19;  Auios  v,  7);  and  only  in  a single 
passage  is  it  rendered  “hemlock”  (Amos  vi,  12).  See 
Wormwood. 

Hemmenway,  Moses,  D.D.,  a Congregational 
minister,  was  born  in  1735  at  Framingham,  Mass.  He 
graduated  at  Harvard  College  in  1755,  and  was  ordained 
pastor  in  Wells,  Mass.,  Aug.  8,  1759,  where  he  labored 
until  his  death,  April  5,  1811.  He  published  Seven  Ser- 
mons on  the  Obligation  and  Encouragement  of  the  Unre- 
generate to  labor  for  the  Meat  which  endureth  to  everlast- 
ing  Life  (1767): — Vindication  of  the  Potcer,  Obligation, 
etc.,  of  the  Unregenerate  to  attend  the  Means  of  Grace, 
against  the  Exceptions  of  Sanmel  Ilopkins  in  his  Reply 
to  Mills  (1772): — Remarks  on  Rev.  Mr.  Hopkins's  An- 
swer to  a Tract  entitled  “A  Vindication,"  etc.  (1774): — 
A Discourse  on  the  divine  Institution  of  Water  Baptism 
as  a standing  Ordinance  of  the  Gospel  (1781): — A Dis- 
course on  the  Nature  anil  Subjects  of  Christian  Baptism 
(1781): — Discourse  concerning  the  Church,  in  which  the 
sereral  Acceptations  of  the  Word  are  exjdained,  etc. 
(1792) : — Remarks  on  the  Rev.  Dr.  Emmons's  Dissertation 
on  the  scriptured  Qualifications  for  A dmission  and  A ccess 
to  the  Christian  Sanmaments,  and  on  his  Sti  ictures  on  a 
Discourse  concerning  the  Church  (1794);  aud  several  oc- 
casional sermons. — Sprague,  Annuls,  i,  541. 

Hemmerlin  or  Hammerlein,  Felix  (Malleo- 
lus), a Swiss  theologian,  was  born  at  Zurich  in  1389. 
After  studying  the  canon  law  at  the  University  of  Er- 
furt he  went  to  Rome.  On  his  return  to  Switzerland  in 
1421  he  was  appointed  canon  at  Zoffingen,  aud  the  year 
after  he  was  made  provost  of  St.  Ursus,  in  Soleuro.  With 
the  revenues  of  these  livings  he  collected  a large  libra- 
ry. He  took  part  in  the  Council  of  Basle  (1441-3),  and 
was  conspicuous  there  for  his  zeal  in  reforming  ecclesi- 
astical discipline.  He  made  many  bitter  enemies,  and 
in  1439  tliey  made  an  attempt  on  his  life,  and  wounded 
him  seriously.  This  did  not,  however,  deter  him  from 
continuing  his  reproofs  of  the  loose  lives  < f the  clergy, 
and  the  general  lack  of  discipline.  After  long-continued 
disputes  with  his  colleagues  at  Zurich,  he  was  stripped, 
through  their  influence,  of  all  his  emoluments.  He  also 
drew  upon  himself  the  hatred  of  a party  of  his  country- 
men by  the  thirtieth  chapter  of  his  treatise  De  Nobili- 
tate,  in  which  he  condemned  the  Swiss  confederates, 
who  in  1444  made  war  on  his  native  city.  Some  mem- 
bers of  this  party,  who  attended  the  Carnival  at  Zurich 


HEMMING 


182 


HENDERSON 


in  1554,  seized  Hem  merlin  and  carried  him  to  Constance, 
where  he  was  thrown  into  prison,  and  treated  with  great 
cruelty.  He  was  unwilling  to  retract  any  of  his  writ- 
ings, and  was  condemned  to  perpetual  imprisonment 
in  a convent.  lie  was  taken  to  a monastery  of  bare- 
footed monks  at  Lucerne,  and  died  there  in  1457,  a mar- 
tyr to  his  devotion,  not,  indeed,  to  evangelical,  hut  to 
ecclesiastical  discipline.  Many  of  his  writings  are  col- 
lected in  Varice  Oblect  adonis  Ojmscula  et  Tractatus  (Ba- 
sle, 1497,  fol.). — Hoefer,  Noun.  Blog,  General e,  xxiii,  "268 ; 
Reber,  Felix  Hemmerlin  (Zurich,  1746);  Herzog,  Real- 
Encyklopddie,  v,  732. 

Hemming  (Hemjiixgius),  Nicolas,  an  eminent 
theologian  of  Denmark,  was  born  in  the  isle  of  Lalarnl 
in  1513.  He  studied  four  years  at  Wittenberg  under 
Melancthon,  and  imbibed  his  mild  spirit.  Returning  to 
Denmark,  he  became  preacher,  and  afterwards  professor 
of  Hebrew  and  theology  at  Copenhagen.  In  1557  he 
became  professor  of  theology  and  vice-chancellor.  He 
was  a voluminous  writer  in  exegetical,  dogmatical,  and 
practical  theology,  and  his  Latin  style  is  highly  praised. 
Opposing  the  Lutheran  doctrine  of  ubiquity,  he  was 
greatly  reproached  by  the  Lutherans  as  a Crvpto-Cal- 
vinist.  In  his  Syntagma  Instltt.  Christ.  (1574)  he  ex- 
pressed himself  on  the  Eucharist  in  a conciliatory  way ; 
but  this  so-called  recantation  has  been  interpreted  in 
accordance  with  the  Calvinistic  doctrine,  as  well  as  with 
the  Lutheran.  In  1579  he  was  made  canon  of  Itoes- 
kilde,  where  he  died  in  peace  in  1600.  Ilis  Opuscula 
Theologica,  including  his  shorter  treatises,  were  edited 
by  Goulart  (Geneva,  1586,  fob). — Bayle,  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Hemsen,  Joiiann  Tycusen,  a German  theologian, 
was  bom  at  Boldixura  (Schleswig)  Oct.  15, 1792.  He 
studied  at  Copenhagen  and  Gottingen,  where  he  gradu- 
ated in  1821.  In  1823  he  became  extraordinary  profess- 
or of  theology  in  the  University  of  Gottingen,  and  died 
there  May  14,  1830.  He  wrote  Anaxagoras  Klazome- 
nensis,  sen  de  vita  ejus  et philosophia  (Gbtt.  1821, 8vo) : — 
Die  Authenticituet  d.  Schriften  d.  Evangelist en  Johannes 
(Schleswig,  1823;  against  Bret  Schneider's  Probabilien) : 
— De  Christologia  Joannis  Baptistce  (Gbtt.  1824) : — Der 
A pastel  Paultis,  sein  Leben,  Wirken,  und  seine  Schriften, 
posthumous  (Gbtt.  1830, 8 vo),  etc.  He  also  wrote  in  the 
Gelehrte  A nzeigen  of  Gottingen,  and  the  JVeue  Krit.  Bib- 
liothek  of  Seebold ; and  edited  Staiidlin’s  Gesch.  u.  Lit- 
eratur  d.  Kirchengesch.  (Hanover,  1827),  and  Berengarii 
Turonensis  Liber  de  sacra  Ccena,  adversus  Lunfrancum 
(Lpz.  1830).  See  Neuer  Nekrolog  d.  Deutschen  (1830),  i, 
422-424;  Iloefcr,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxiii,  901.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Hen  (Heb.  Chen,  *jn,  grace,  as  often ; Sept,  translates 
yd/uc,  Vulg.  Hem),  the  son  of  Zephaniah,  to  whom  the 
prophet  was  sent  with  a symbolical  crown  (Zech.  vi,  14) ; 
probably  a figurative  name  for  Josiaii  (ver.  10). 

Hen  (upvig,  a bird,  especially  the  domestic  fowl, 
Matt,  xxiii,  37 ; Luke  xiii,  34).  We  have  no  evidence 
that  the  ancient  Hebrews  were  accustomed  to  the  breed- 
ing of  poultry,  but  that  the  later  Jews  were  acquainted 
with  it  (Chakl.  KnbwanpJ)  is  evident  from  2 Esdras  i, ! 
30 ; Matt,  xxiii,  37 ;'  Luke  xiii,  34 ; xxii,  60, 61.  Micha- 
elis  is  of  opinion  that  the  incubation  of  the  common  hen 
is  referred  to  in  Jcr.  xvii,  11.  The  original  country  of 
the  common  poultry  fowl  is  India,  where  it  is  called  the 
jungle  bird.  See  Cock.  The  metaphor  used  in  the 
passages  of  the  Gospels  where  the  term  “hen”  occurs 
has  always  been  admired  for  its  beauty.  When  the  hen 
sees  a bird  of  prey  coming,  she  makes  a noise  to  assem- 
ble her  chickens,  that  she  may  cover  them  with  her 
wings  from  the  danger.  The  Roman  army,  as  an  eagle, 
was  about  to  fall  upon  the  Jews;  our  Lord  expresses  a 
desire  to  guard  them  from  threatened  calamities,  hut 
they  disregarded  his  invitations  and  warnings,  and  fell 

a prey  to  their  adversaries Bastow.  The  -word  there 

employed  is  used  in  the  same  specific  sense  in  classical 
Greek  (Aristopli.  A v.  W2,Yesp.  81 1).  That  a bird  so  .in- 
timately connected  with  the  household,  and  so  common 


in  Palestine,  as  we  know  from  Rabbinical  sources  (Otho, 
Lex.  Rabb.  p.  256),  should  receive  such  slight  notice,  is 
certainly  singular  (see  Reland,  De  galli  cantu  Ilier.  au- 
dita, Rotterd.  1709 ; Detharding,  id.  Rost.  1752)  ; it  is  al- 
most equally  singular  that  it  is  nowhere  represented  in 
the  paintings  of  ancient  Egypt  (Wilkinson,  i,  234). — 
Smith.  See  Fowl.  * 

He'na  (Heb.  Ifena',  signif.  unknown;  Sept. 
’ Avu , but  in  Isa.  xxxvii,  13  blends  with  the  following 
name  into  ’Anatyyovyavu,  q.  d.  “Ana-near-Ava;”  Vulg. 
Ana),  a city  (apparently  of  Mesopotamia)  mentioned  in 
connection  with  Sepharvaim  and  Ivah  as  one  of  those 
overthrown  by  Sennacherib  before  his  invasion  of  Ju- 
dtea  (2  Kings  xviii,  34;  xix,  13;  Isa.  xxxvii,  13).  Ac- 
cording to  the  conjecture  of  Busching  ( Erdbeschr . xi, 
263,  757),  it  is  the  town  which  is  still  called  by  the 
Arabs  Amth.  It  lies  on  the  Euphrates,  amid  gardens, 
which  are  rich  in  dates,  citrons,  oranges,  pomegranates, 
and  other  fruits.  The  modern  site  is  on  the  right  bank 
of  the  stream,  while  the  name  also  attaches  to  some 
ruins  a little  lower  down  upon  the  left  bank ; but  be- 
tween them  is  “a  string  of  islands”  (Chesnev's  Euphra- 
tes Expedition,  i,  53),  upon  one  of  which  stands  a castle. 
Perhaps,  in  ancient  times,  the  city  lay,  for  the  most 
part,  or  entirely,  upon  this  island,  for  Abulfeda  says  that 
“Anah  is  a small  town  on  an  island  in  the  middle  of  the 
Euphrates”  (see  Asscmani,  Bibl.  Orient.  Ill,  ii,  717;  Mi- 
chael is,  Supplem.  p.  562).  The  inhabitants  are  chiefly 
Arabs  and  Jews.  Conjecture  further  identifies  A na  with 
a town  called  Anat  (r*i  is  merely  the  feminine  termina- 
tion), which  is  mentioned  in  the  Assyrian  inscriptions 
as  situated  on  an  island  in  the  Euphrates  (Fox  Talbot’s 
Assyrian  Texts,  p.  21;  Layard’s  Nineveh  ami  Babylon , 
p.355),  at  some  distance  below  its  junction  with  the  Cha- 
bour,  and  which  appears  as  Anatho  (’A vaOui)  in  Isidore 
of  Charax  (Mans.  Parth.  p.  4).  Ilitzig,  however  (Com- 
ment. on  Isa.  1.  c.),  thinks  the  name  an  appellation,  equiv- 
alent to  “the  Lowland,"  and  in  this  signification  Fi'irst 
(Heb.  Lexikon,  s.  v.)  coucurs  (q.  d.  235 ; see  Canaan). 
Comp.  Sepiiauvaim. 

Hen'adad  (Heb.  Chenadad',  probably  for  *jtl 
Till,  favor  of  I I ad  ad;  Sept.  ’Hpo^ao),  a Levite  whose 
sons  •were  active  in  the  enterprises  of  the  restoration  af- 
ter the  captivity  (Ezra  iii,  9);  two  of  the  latter,  Bavai 
and  Bimini,  are  named  (Neh.  iii,  18,  24;  x,  9).  B.C. 
ante  535. 

Hendel,  William,  D.D.,  one  of  the  pioneers  of  the 
German  Reformed  Church  in  the  United  States,  was  bom 
in  the  Palatinate  in  the  first  half  of  the  18th  century. 
Having  completed  his  theological  studies,  he  came  to 
America  in  1764,  and  in  Jan.  1765  became  pastor  of  the 
German  Reformed  congregation  at  Lancaster,  Pa.  Dur- 
ing the  years  1769-1782  he  had  charge  of  the  congre- 
gation at  Tnlpchocken  and  neighboring  congregations. 
Indeed,  he  served  as  many  as  nine  at  a time,  besides 
making  frequent  missionary  excursions.  In  Sept.  1782, 
he  accepted  a call  to  return  to  his  Lancaster  congrega- 
tion. He  was  made  D.D.  by  the  College  of  New  Jersey 
in  1788.  In  February,  1794,  he  removed  to  Philadelphia, 
which  was  his  last  station.  Shortly  after  his  arrival  the 
yellow  fever  broke  out  the  second  time,  and  while  faith- 
fully ministering  to  the  sick  and  dying,  he  died  of  the 
fever  Sept.  29, 1798.  Dr.  Hendel  was  a good  scholar, 
and  a man  of  great  pulpit  talents. — Flarbangh,  Fathers 
of  the  Reformed  Church,  ii,  120  sq. 

Henderson,  Alexander,  a minister  of  the  Church 
of  Scotland,  was  born  in  Fifcshire  about  1583.  He  stud- 
ied at  St.  Andrew’s,  where  he  passed  A.M.  in  1603,  and 
where,  about  1610,  he  was  professor  of  philosophy. 
About  1615  (according  to  M‘Crie)  he  was  presented  to 
the  parish  of  Leuchars  by  archbishop  Gladstanes.  As 
the  episcopal  government  was  very  unpopular  with  the 
people,  they  resisted  Mr.  Henderson’s  settlement,  even 
to  the  extent  of  closing  the  church  doors  against  him. 
In  a few  years,  however,  Henderson  became  convinced 


HENDERSON 


183 


HENGSTENBEEG 


that  “episcopacy  was  unauthorized  by  the  Word  of 
God,  and  inconsistent  with  the  reformed  Constitution 
of  the  Church  of  Scotland.”  lie  entered  into  the  strife 
against  prelacy  with  great  vigor.  In  1G1D  he  was  call- 
ed before  the  High  Commission  at  St.  Andrew’s,  hut  de- 
fended himself  successfully.  When  the  episcopal  liturgy 
was  ordered  to  be  used  in  Scotland  in  1G37  he  joined  in 
the  resistance  made  to  it.  lie  was  one  of  the  writers 
of  the  renewed  “League  and  Covenant,”  sworn  to  by 
thousands  at  Grayfriars’  Church,  Edinburgh,  March  1, 
1638.  He  was  moderator  of  the  famous  General  As- 
sembly of  that  year,  and  he  executed  the  functions  of 
his  office  with  singular  skill,  firmness,  and  prudence. 
At  the  nineteenth  session  Henderson  preached  a power- 
ful sermon,  and  at  its  close  pronounced  the  sentence  of 
deposition  (against  the  bishops)  which  had  been  adopt- 
ed by  the  Assembly.  He  was  removed,  much  against 
his  will,  in  1638,  from  the  church  at  Leuchars  to  Edin- 
burgh. In  16-10  he  was  made  rector  of  the  University 
of  Edinburgh.  During  1642  he  was  employed  in  man- 
aging the  correspondence  with  England  regarding  ref- 
ormation and  reunion  of  the  churches.  In  1643  he  was 
again  moderator  of  the  General  Assembly;  and  in  that 
year  he,  with  others,  represented  Scotland  at  the  West- 
minster Assembly,  and  he  resided  in  London  for  three 
years.  In  1645  he  was  appointed  to  assist  the  commis- 
sioners of  Parliament  to  treat  with  the  king  at  Ux- 
bridge, and  also  at  Newcastle  in  1686.  In  the  papers 
on  episcopacy  delivered  by  him  in  these  conferences  he 
displayed  great  learning  and  ability.  His  constitution 
was  broken  by  long  and  excessive  labors.  In  the  sum- 
mer of  1846  he  returned  to  Edinburgh,  and  on  the  19th 
of  August  in  that  year  he  died  of  the  stone.  The  Con- 
stitution of  the  Scottish  Church  was  framed  chiefly  by 
Henderson.  “He  was  evidently  of  that  sort  of  men  of 
which  martyrs  are  made,  and  needed  only  a change  of 
circumstances  to  have  given  his  name  a high  place 
among  those  who  have  sealed  a good  confession  with 
their  blood.  Nearly  every  considerable  production  of 
that  memorable  period  bears  his  impress.  The  Solemn 
League  and  Covenant  was  his  own  composition.  The 
Directory  was  formed  under  his  eye.  He  wrote  the 
principal  part  of  the  Confession  of  Faith  with  his  oWn 
hand.  And  the  form  of  Church  government  which  the 
Assembly  attempted  in  vain  to  give  to  the  Church  of 
England  was  little  more  than  a transcript  of  that  which 
he  had  a little  before  drawn  up  for  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land” (Curry,  in  Methodist  Quarterly,  1848, p.  600).  “So 
long  as  the  purity  of  our  Presbyterian  establishment  re- 
mains,” says  Dr.  Aiton,  “as  often  as  the  General  As- 
sembly of  our  Church  is  permitted  to  convene — while 
the  Confession  of  Faith  and  Catechisms  Larger  and 
Shorter  hold  a place  in  our  estimation  second  to  the 
Scriptures  alone — and  till  the  history  of  the  revolution 
during  the  reign  of  Charles  I is  forgotten — the  memory 
of  Alexander  Henderson  will  be  respected,  and  every 
Presbyterian  patriot  in  Scotland  will  continue  grateful 
for  the  Second  Reformation  of  our  Church,  which  Hen- 
derson was  so  instrumental  in  effecting.”  His  life  was 
spent  in  active  labors,  allowing  little  time  for  writing, 
except  the  documents  and  pamphlets  necessary  to  the 
great  controversy  in  which  he  took  so  large  a part.  Two 
of  his  sermons — preached  severally  before  the  two  houses 
of  Parliament  (1644)  and  the  House  of  Lords  (1645) — 
are  given  at  the  end  of  M^Crie’s  Life  of  Alexander  Hen- 
derson (Edinburgh,  1846).  See  also  Ilowie,  Scots'  Wor- 
thies, p.  349;  Collier,  Eccles.  Hist,  of  England,  viii,  293- 
325;  lletherington,  Church  of  Scotland,  vol.  i;  Cunning- 
ham, Church  Principles  (Edinburgh,  1863),  p.  384  sq. 

Henderson,  Ebenezer,  D.D.,  an  eminent  Scotch 
divine,  was  bom  at  Dunfermline  Nov.  17, 1784.  At  an 
early  age  he  determined  to  devote  his  life  to  foreign 
missions,  and  went  to  Denmark,  in  order  to  sail  thence 
for  India.  But  he  found  work  in  the  north  of  Europe  in 
the  circulation  of  the  Bible,  which  occupied  him  for 
twenty  years.  After  several  years  spent  in  this  way  in 
Denmark,  Sweden,  and  Norway,  he  was  deputed  by  the 


British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  in  1814  to  proceed  to 
Iceland  on  a similar  mission;  and  in  1819  he  was  sent 
through  Russia  on  the  same  errand.  In  1826  he  was 
appointed  president  of  the  Missionary  College  at  Ilox- 
ton ; and  in  1830  he  was  made  professor  of  theology  and 
Biblical  literature  at  the  Highbury  College.  His  stud- 
ies in  the  language  and  literature  of  the  Bible  had  been 
carried  on  vigorously  during  his  previous  long  career  in 
the  sendee  of  the  Bible  Society,  and  he  distinguished 
himself,  both  as  professor  and  as  author,  b}'  thorough 
and  scholarly  work.  In  1850  he  was  compelled  by  de- 
cline of  health  to  relinquish  his  literary  labors,  and  after 
a short  service  as  pastor  at  East  Sheer  he  gave  up  all 
public  work.  He  died  at  Mortlake,  Surrey,  Slav  16, 
1858.  Dr.  Henderson’s  reputation  as  a Biblical  critic 
was  equal  to  that  of  any  man  of  his  time  in  England, 
and  he  was  widely  known  and  respected  in  other  coun- 
tries. He  received  the  degree  of  D.D.  from  Amherst 
College,  Mass.,  and  from  the  University  of  Copenhagen 
at  the  same  time.  Ilis  knowledge  of  the  languages  of 
the  Bible  was  accurate,  and  he  used  freely  most  of  the 
important  living  languages.  He  was  orthodox  in  his 
theology,  and  never  handled  the  text  of  the  Bible  in  the 
reckless  and  arbitrary  manner  which  was  common  in 
Germany  in  his  time.  He  was  not  an. elegant  writer, 
and  his  translations  of  Scripture  are  not  always  in  good 
taste;  but  most  persons  competent  to  judge  will  agree 
to  Dr.  W.  L.  Alexander’s  judgment  that  “ his  contri- 
butions to  Biblical  literature  are  among  the  most  val- 
uable the  age  has  produced,  especially  his  lectures  on 
Inspiration,  and  his  commentaries  on  Isaiah  and  the  Mi- 
nor Prophets.”  Ilis  writings  include  Iceland,  Journal 
of  a Residence  in  that  Island  (Edinb.  1818,  2 vols.  8vo)  : 
— IJiblical  Researches  and  Travels  in  Russia,  with  Obser- 
vations on  the  Rabbinical  and  Caraib  Jews  (Loml.  1826, 
8vo) : — translation  of  31.  F.  Roos,  Exposition  of  lJunid 
(1811,  8vo)  : — The  Mystery  of  Godliness,  on  1 Tim.  iii, 
16  (Loud.  1830): — Divine  Inspiration  (Lond.  1836,  often 
reprinted,  8vo): — Commentary  on  Isaiah,  with  a new 
translation  (London,  1840,  8vo) : — Comm,  on  the  Minor 
Prophets,  with  a new  translation  (London,  1845,  8vo) : — 
Comm,  on  Jeremiah,  with  translation  (Laid.  1851,  8vo): 
— Comm,  on  Ezekiel  (Lond.  1855, 8vo).  He  edited,  with 
additions,  Stuart’s  translation  of  Ernesti,  Elements  of  In- 
terpretation (1827,  12mo),  H5gid.  Gutbiiii  Lexicon  Syr- 
iacum  (1836, 24mo),  and  a r ew  edition  of  Buck,  Theolog- 
ical Dictionary  (Lond.  1833,  and  often).  A Life  of  Dr. 
Henderson  has  recently  been  issued  (1869). 

Henderson,  John,  a Scotch  merchant  and  philan- 
thropist, was  born  in  1782  at  Borrowstanes;  was  bred 
to  business,  and  was  eminently  successful  in  trade.  His 
religions  life  was  even  more  earnest  than  his  mercantile 
zeal,  and  lie  devoted  a large  part  of  his  income  to  benev- 
olence. He  took  especial  interest  in  the  observance  of 
the  Lord’s  Day,  and  offered  prizes  to  working-men  for 
essays  on  Sabbath  Observance.  See  Sabbath.  He 
was  one  of  the  most  active  promoters  of  the  Evangel- 
ical Alliance  (q.  v.),  and  contributed  largely  to  its  funds. 
The  Waldcnsian  churches,  as  well  as  Foreign  31issions, 
received  large  benefactions  from  him;  while  at  home, 
he  was  a constant  contributor  to  the  erection  of  church- 
es, and  for  all  works  of  benevolence.  It  is  said  that 
for  years  his  charitable  outlays  amounted  to  more  than 
<£30,000  a year.  He  died  at  his  residence,  The  Park, 
near  Glasgow,  May  1,  1867. — Evangelical  Christendom, 
June,  1867. 

Hengstenberg,  Ernst  Wilhelm,  a German  theo- 
logian was  born  Oct.  20, 1802,  at  Frondenbcrg,  in  West- 
phalia, and  was  prepared  for  the  ministry  under  the  in- 
struction of  his  father,  who  was  pastor  at  Frondcnberg. 
Entering  the  University  of  Bonn,  he  gave  himself  earnest- 
ly to  Oriental  and  philosophical  studies,  an  early  fruit 
of  which  appeared  in  his  translation  of  Aristotle’s  Meta- 
physics (Bonn,  1824),  and  in  an  edition  of  the  Moallakah 
of  Amralkais  (Bonn,  1823).  In  1823  he  went  to  Basle, 
where,  under  the  influence  of  the  3Iissionary  Institute, 


HENHOFER 


184 


HENKEE 


he  became  earnestly  interested  in  religion  and  theology. 
In  1824  he  became  pricatdoeent  in  theology  at  Berlin ; 
in  182G,  professor  extraordinary ; in  1828,  ordinary  pro- 
fessor ; and  in  1829,  doctor  of  theology.  For  many  years 
his  organ  was  the  Ecangelische  Kirckenzeitung,  begun  in 
1827,  an  orthodox  journal,  which,  during  its  active  and 
often  stormy  career,  has  rendered  great  service  against 
nationalism,  but  has  also  been  noted  for  its  violent  po- 
lemical spirit  in  favor  of  Lutheranism,  and,  of  late,  even 
of  Ritualism,  as  well  as  of  absolutism  in  Church  and 
State.  lie  was,  after  1848,  a bitter  opponent  of  the  un- 
ion of  the  Lutheran  and  Reformed  churches  in  Prussia, 
so  much  desired  by  Frederick  William  III,  and  by  Nean- 
der  and  other  leading  theologians,  against  whom  Ileng- 
stenberg’s  severity  of  language  was  often  inexcusable. 
His  contributions  to  the  Kirclienzeitung , during  his  for- 
ty-two years’  connection  with  it,  were  enough  to  make 
many  volumes;  but  he  was,  besides,  a laborious  writer, 
especially  in  exegetical  theology.  lie  died  June  8, 1869. 
His  principal  works  are  Christologie  des  alten  Testaments 
(Berlin,  2d  edit.  3 vols.  8vo,  1854-57 ; translated  by  Eeuel 
Keith  from  1st  edit.,  N.  Fork,  1836-39,  3 vols.  8vo;  also 
transl.  by  Theo.  Meyer  from  2d  edit.  Edinburgh,  4 vols. 
8vo,  1863) : — Beitrage  znr  Einleitung  ins  alte  Test.  (Ber- 
lin, 1831-39,3  vols.8vo) : — Die  Bucher  Moses  u.Egypten 
(Berlin,  1841, 8vo)  : — Commentar  iiber  die  Psalmen  (Ber- 
lin, 2d  edit.  1849-52, 4 vols.  8vo ; translated  by  Fairbairn 
and  Thompson,  Edinburgh,  1857,  3 vols.  8vo) : — Erldu- 
terungen  ii.  d.  Pentateuch , vol.  i.  {Die  Geschichte  Bileams, 
etc.),  transl.  by  Ryland,  Edinb.  1858 : — Ojjenbarung  Jo- 
hannis  (2d  edit.  Berlin,  1861-62,  2 vols.  8vo;  transl.  by 
Fairbairn  from  1st  edit.,  Edinb.  1851,  2 vols.  8vo)  : — Das 
Eoangelium  d.  Johannes  erlaatert  (Berlin,  1861-2, 2 vols.; 
translated,  Edinb.  1865,2  vols.  8 vo) : — Ezechiel erklart : — 
Ecclesiastes: — Das  Hohelied  Salomonis  ausgelegt  (Berlin, 
1853,  8vo).  There  are  also  the  following  additional 
translations  from  the  Einleitung:  Dissertations  on  the 
Genuineness  of  the  Pentateuch , by  Ryland  (Edinb.  1847, 
2 vols.  8vo) ; Egypt  and  the  Books  of  Moses,  by  Robbins 
(Edinburgh,  8 vo ; Andover,  1843) ; On  the  Genuineness  of 
Daniel  and  Zechariah,  bound  with  Ryland’s  translation 
of  the  History  of  Balaam  (Edinb.  1858, 8vo);  Comm,  on 
Ecclesiastes , with  Treatise  on  the  Song  of  Solomon,  Job, 
Isaiah,  etc.  (Philadelphia,  1860). 

Henhofer,  Aloys,  a German  divine,  was  born  at 
Volkersbach,  near  Ettlingen,  of  Roman  Catholic  parents, 
July  11, 1789.  His  mother  destined  him  for  the  Roman 
Catholic  priesthood,  and  hoped  that  he  would  become  a 
missionary.  He  studied  at  the  University  of  Freiburg, 
and  at  the  Roman  Catholic  Seminary  of  Meersburg.  Af- 
ter his  ordination  as  priest,  he  was  tutor  foi  some  years 
in  a noble  family,  and  in  1818  became  .pastor  at  Miilil- 
hausen.  Here  he  soon  found  the  need  of  a deeper  per- 
sonal religion,  and  was  greatly  edified  by  the  conversa- 
tion of  Fink,  one  of  Sader’s  disciples,  and  by  reading  the 
Life  of  Martin  Boos.  His  preaching  became  earnestly 
evangelical,  and  crowds  flocked  to  hear  him.  His  or- 
thodoxy was  soon  questioned,  and,  on  examination,  he 
avowed  his  doubts  as  to  the  Romanist  doctrine  of  the 
Mass.  His  excommunication  followed  (Oct.  16,  1822), 
and  gave  occasion  to  his  book  Christliches  Glaubensbe- 
kenntniss  d.  Pfgrrer's  Henhofer.  A flock  of  his  converts 
speedily  gathered  around  him,  and  in  1823  he  was  in- 
stalled as  its  Evangelical  Protestant  pastor.  In  1827  he 
was  called  to  Spock,  near  Carlsruhe,  where  he  labored 
as  pastor  for  thirty-five  years.  His  influence  was  felt 
widely  in  the  revival  of  evangelical  religion  throughout 
Baden.  He  died  December  5, 1862.  Besides  numerous 
pamphlets  on  the  Roman  Catholic  controversy,  and  on 
practical  questions,  he  published  Der  Kampf  des  Un- 
gluubens  mit  Aberglauben  a.  Glauben,  ein  Zeichen  unserer 
Zeit  (Heidelberg,  1861) : — Predigten  (posthumous,  Hei- 
delberg, 1863).  See  also  Frommel,  A us  dem  Leben  des 
Dr.  Aloys  Henhofer  (Carlsruhe,  1865,  8vo). 

Henke,  Heinrich  Piiilipp  Konrad,  a German 
theologian,  was  bom  at  Hehlen,  in  Brunswick,  July  3, 


1752.  His  early  proficiency  was  so  great  that  before  he 
went  to  the  imiversity  he  was  employed  as  a gymnasial 
teacher  (1771-72).  After  studying  philology  and  the- 
ology at  Helmstadt,  he  was  made  professor  of  philoso- 
phy there  in  1777,  and  in  1780  professor  of  theology. 
In  1803  he  became  principal  of  the  Carolinum,  Bruns- 
wick. After  a very  successful  career,  both  as  teacher 
and  writer,  he  died  May  2,  1809.  In  theology  he  be- 
longed to  the  rationalistic  school  of  Sender,  and  his 
Church  History  is  written  in  a spirit  of  bitter  hatred  of 
ecclesiastical  authority.  Ilis  Life  by  Bollmann  appear- 
ed at  Helmstadt  in  181 G.  As  a critic  he  certainly  had 
great  merits,  but  his  rationalistic  views  have  made  his 
writings  shortlived.  His  reputation  chiefly  rests  on  his 
Allgemeine  Geschichte  der  Christlichen  Kirche  (Brunsw. 
1799-1808,  6 vols.  8vo;  finished  by  Yater,  1813-20,  vols. 
vii  and  viii).  It  is  a “clever  and  spirited  work;  but 
the  Church  appears  in  it,  not  as  the  temple  of  God  on 
earth,  but  as  a great  infirmary  or  bedlam”  (Schaff,  Ch. 
History , i,  22;  see  also  Kahnis,  German  Protestantism, 
p.  177).  He  wrote  also,  Lineamenta  institutionum  fidei 
christiance  historico-criticaruin  (Helmstadt,  1783;  2d  ed. 
1795;  German,  1803): — Magazinf.  d.  Religions-philoso- 
phie,  Exegcse  und  Kirchengesch.  (Helmst.  1793-1804,  12 
vols.) : — Archiv.fur  die  neueste  Kirchengesch.  (Weimar, 
1794-99,  6 vols.): — Religionsannalen  (Brunsw.  1800-05, 
12  numbers) : — Kirchengesch.  des  18-eM  Jahrh.  (Brunsw. 
1802) : — Hist.  Untersuchungen  in  d.  Christ.  Glaubenslehre 
(Helmst.  1802) : — Beitrage  z.  neuesten  Gesch.  d.  Religion, 
etc.  (Berlin,  1806,  2 vols.).  See  F.  A.  Ludewig,  Abriss 
einer  Lebensgesch.  Henkes ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generule, 
xxiii,  933. 

Henkel,  Charles,  was  descended  from  a long  line 
of  ministerial  ancestors  in  the  Lutheran  Church.  He 
was  born  Slav  18,  1798,  in  New  Market,  Va.  He  stud- 
ied theology  under  the  direction  of  his  father,  the  Rev. 
Paul  Henkel,  and  was  licensed  to  preach  the  Gospel  in 
1818,  and  immediately  commenced  his  ministry  in  Ma- 
son County,  Ya.  In  1820  he  removed  to  Columbus,  Ohio, 
and  in  this  field  continued,  amid  many  deprivations  and 
toils,  till  1827,  when  he  took  charge  of  the  Somerset  pas- 
torate. His  health,  however,  gradually  failed,  and  he 
died  Feb.  2, 184L  He  was  a man  of  vigorous  mind,  and 
a diligent  stjudent.  Several  of  his  sermons  were  pub- 
lished. On  one  occasion  he  was  engaged  in  a public 
controversy  with  a Roman  Catholic  priest,  and  was  very 
successful  in  exposing  the  absurdities  of  that  false  sys- 
tem. (M.  L.  S.) 

Henkel,  Paul,  a divine  of  the  American  Lutheran 
Church,  was  born  in  Rowan  County,  N.  C.,  Dec.  15, 1754. 
In  1776  he  was  awakened  under  the  preaching  of  White- 
field,  who  at  that  time  was  exciting  deep  interest 
throughout  the  country.  He  commenced  a course  of 
study  under  the  direction  of  pastor  Kri'ich,  of  Frederick. 
Md.,  with  a view  to  the  Lutheran  ministry.  He  was 
licensed  to  preach  by  the  Synod  of  Pennsylvania,  and 
in  1792  became  pastor  at  New  Market,  Ya.  His  labors 
extended  to  Augusta,  Madison,  Pendleton,  and  Wythe 
counties.  Ilis  position  was  very  much  that  of  an  itin- 
erant missionary,  visiting  destitute  portions  of  the  Church, 
gathering  together  the  scattered  members,  instructing 
and  confirming  the  youth,  and  administering  the  sacra- 
ments. In  1800  he  accepted  a call  to  Rowan,  his  native 
county,  N.  C. ; but,  the  location  being  unfavorable  to  the 
health  of  his  family,  he  removed  in  1805  to  New  Mar- 
ket, and  labored  as  an  independent  missionary,  preach- 
ing wherever  his  services  were  required,  and  depending 
for  his  support  solely  upon  the  good-will  of  the  people. 
He  made  repeated  tours  through  Western  Yirginia, 
Tennessee,  Kentucky,  Indiana,  and  Ohio.  In  1809  he 
wrote  a work  on  Christian  Baptism  in  the  German  lan- 
guage, which  he  subsequently  translated  into  English. 
In  1810  he  published  a German  Hymn-book , and  in  1816 
one  in  English,  many  of  the  hymns  being  his  own  com- 
position. In  1811  he  published  his  German,  and,  so  in 
after,  his  English  Catechism.  He  also  published  a Ger- 


HENNEPIN 


185  HENRY 


man  work  in  rhyme,  entitled  Zeitrertreib,  designed  to 
satirize  the  fanaticism,  the  folly,  and  vices  of  the  day. 
Mr.  Henkel  adhered  with  great  tenacity  to  the  stand- 
ards and  usages  of  his  Church.  In  the  earlier  part  of 
his  ministry  he  approved  of  some  of  the  alterations 
made  by  Melanetlion  in  the  Augsburg  Confession,  but 
at  a later  period  his  doctrinal  position  was  the  unaltered 
Confession.  As  a preacher  he  had  more  than  ordinary 
power.  He  educated  a large  number  of  candidates  for 
the  ministry,  who  have  occupied  responsible  positions 
in  the  Lutheran  Church.  His  habits  of  life  were  plain 
and  simple,  and,  although  opposed  to  everything  that 
looked  like  ostentation  in  the  discharge  of  his  official 
duties,  he  invariably  wore  his  clerical  robes.  In  person 
he  was  large  and  well  formed,  measuring  nearly  six  feet 
in  height.  Five  of  his  sons  became  ministers  in  the  Lu- 
theran Church.  Towards  the  close  of  his  life  lie  was 
attacked  with  paralysis,  and  died  November  17,  1825. 
CM.  L.  8.) 

Hennepin,  Louis,  a Recollect  missionary  and  trav- 
eller, was  born  in  Flanders  about  1640.  In  1675  he  was 
sent  to  Canada,  and  in  1678  started  to  accompany  the 
traveller  Lasalle.  He  founded  a convent  at  Fort  Catar- 
acouv,  and  with  two  other  monks  followed  Lasalle  in  his 
tour  among  the  Canadian  lakes  in  1679.  Lasalle  sent 
him,  in  1680,  with  another  person  named  Dacan,  to  find 
the  sources  of  the  Mississippi.  They  followed  the  stream 
up  to  the  46°  lat.  north,  but  were  stopped  by  a fall 
which  Hennepin  called  Sault  de  St.  Antoine  de  Padoue. 
He  was  then  for  eight  months  a prisoner  among  the 
Sioux,  but  was  liberated  by  the  French,  and  returned  to 
Quebec  April  5,  1682.  After  his  return  to  Europe  he 
was  for  a while  keeper  of  the  convent  of  Renty,  in  Ar- 
tois, and  finally  retired  to  Holland.  The  date  of  his 
death  is  not  ascertained.  Hennepin  disparaged  the 
Jesuits  as  missionaries,  and  was,  in  turn,  disparaged 
by  the  Jesuit  Charlevoix.  He  wrote  Description  de  la 
Lonisiane,  etc.,  qvec  la  carte  du  pays,  les  manrs  et  la  ma- 
niere  de  vivre  des  sauvages  (Paris,  1683  and  1688, 12mo ; 
1688,  4 to): — Xouvelle  Decouverte  d'un  tr'es  grand  paps 
situe  dans  VAmerique,  entre  le  Xoureau  J Iexique  et  la 
mer  Glaciate,  arec  cartes,  etc.,  et  les  avantages  que  Von  en 
pent  tirer  par  Vetablissement.  des  colonies  (Utrecht,  1697, 
12mo;  and  in  the  Recueil  des  Voyages  au  Xord,  vol.  ix, 
etc.) : — Xoureau  Voyage  dans  un  pays,  etc.,  depnis  1679 
jusqu'a  1682,  arec  les  reflexions  sur  les  enterprises  du 
sienr  Lasalle  (Utrecht,  1698, 12mo;  Recueil  des  Voyages 
au  Xord,  vol.  v,  1734).  See  Charlevoix,  Hist,  gene  rule 
de  la  Xouvelle  France;  Dinanx, .4 rehives  hist.du  Xord; 
Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiii,  940  sq.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Henninger,  John,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
was  born  in  'Washington  Co.,  Ya. ; was  converted  while 
young;  entered  the  Western  Conference  in  1807;  was 
made  presiding  elder  in  1816  on  French-Broad  District; 
located  in  1818,  and  yet  labored  with  zeal  until  he  re-en- 
tered the  itinerancy  in  Ilolston  Conference  in  1825,  and 
so  labored  until  his  death,  Dec.  3, 1829.  Mr.  Henninger 
was  a faithful,  popular,  and  successful  minister,  and  a 
consistent  and  devout  Christian.  During  the  latter  part 
of  his  life  he  was  very  efficient  as  presiding  elder,  and  as 
agent  for  Holst  on  College. — Minutes  of  Conferences , iii, 
56 ; Radford,  Methodism  in  Kentucky,  ii,  57. 

He'noch  (1  Chron.  i,  B,  33).  See  Enoch. 

Henoticon  (Greek,  ivojTOcov,  uniting  into  one),  the 
name  given  to  a “ Decree  of  Union”  issued  by  the  Greek 
emperor  Zeno,  A.D.  482,  by  the  advice  of  Acacius,  bish- 
op of  Constantinople,  with  a view  to  reconcile  the  Mono- 
physites  and  the  orthodox  to  the  profession  of  one  faith. 
It  recognised  the  Nicene  and  Constantinopolitan  creeds, 
but  did  not  name  the  decrees  of  Chalcedon.  It  thus  re- 
quired a sacrifice  of  opinion  on  the  part  of  the  Mono- 
phvsites;  but,  at  the  same  time,  it  deprived  the  ortho- 
dox of  the  advantages  they  had  gained  at  the  Council 
of  Chalcedon.  The  Roman  patriarch,  Felix  II,  con- 
demned it  in  483,  and  in  518  it  was  suppressed. — Mos- 
heim,  Church  Hist.  cent,  v,  pt.  ii,  ch.  v,  § 19.  The  He- 


noticon is  given,  in  Greek,  in  Gieseler,  Ch.  Hist,  i,  § 108. 
See  Monopuysites. 

Henricians.  See  Henry  of  Lausanne. 

Henry  of  Ghent  ( Henricus  de  Ganduvo:  proper 
name  Goethals),  a theologian  of  the  13th  century.  He 
was  born  at  Ghent  in  1217,  studied  at  the  University  of 
Paris,  and  was  a pupil  of  Albertus  Magnus.  Admitted 
to  lecture  at  the  Sorlonne.  he  acquired  great  distinction 
as  a teacher  of  philosophy  and  theology,  and  oltained 
the  surname  of  Doctor  Solemnis.  “He  was  endowed 
with  great  sagacity  of  understanding,  attached  to  the 
system  of  the  Realists,  and  blended  the  ideas  of  Plato 
with  the  formularies  of  Aristotle : attributing  to  the 
first  a real  existence  independent  of  the  divine  Intelli- 
gence. He  suggested  some  new  opinions  in  psycholo- 
gy, and  detected  many  speculative  errors,  without,  how- 
ever, suggesting  corrections  for  them,  owing  to  the 
faultiness  of  the  method  of  the  philosophy  of  his  time” 
(Tennemann).  Henry  became  canon,  and  afterwards 
archdeacon  of  Tournay,  and  died  there  A.D.  1293.  His 
writings  are,  Quodlibeta  in  iv  Libb.  Sententiarum  (Paris, 
1518,  fol.  reprinted, -with  commentary  by  Zuccoli,  1613, 
2 vols.  fols.):  — JSummu  Theologiie  (Paris,  1520,  fol.):  — 
De  Script  or.  Feclesiastieis  (in  Fabricius,  Bibl.  Eccl.).  See 
Dupi’n,  Eccles.  Writers,  cent,  xiii;  Ritter,  Gesch.  d.  Phi- 
losophic, viii,  355 ; Tennemann,  Manual  Hist.  Phil.  § 267. 

Henry  of  Gorcum  ( Henricus  Goreomius),  so  named 
from  his  birthplace,  Gorcum,  in  Holland,  a philosopher 
and  theologian  of  the  15th  century,  vice-chancellor  of 
the  Academy  < f Cologne.  He  wrote  commentaries  on 
Aristotle,  Aquinas,  and  Pet<  r Lombard ; also  Tract,  de 
cterenioniis  Ecclesiasticis : — De  Celebritute  Festorum : — 
Contra  Ilussitas. 

Henry  of  Huntingdon,  an  early  English  histori- 
an, was  bom  about  the  end  of  the  11th  century.  He 
became  archdeacon  of  Huntingdon  before  1123.  At  the 
recpiest  of  Alexander,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  he  wrote  a gen- 
eral history  of  England,  from  the  landing  of  Jidius  Cae- 
sar to  the  death  of  Stephen  (1154),  in  eight  hooks.  It 
is  to  be  found  in  Savile’s  JScriptores  post  Bedum  prceei- 
pui  (Loud.  1596,  fol. ; Francof.  1601);  also  in  English, 
The  Chronicle  of  Henry  of  Huntingdon,  etc.,  edited  by  T. 
Forester  (Loud.  1853, sm.8vo).  Wart  on  (Anglia  Sacra, 
ii,  694)  gives  a letter  of  Henry  of  Huntingdon  to  the 
abbot  of  Ramsey,  Epistola  ad  Waltervm  de  Mundi  Con - 
temptu,  which  contains  many  curious  anecdotes  of  the 
kings,  nobles,  prelates,  and  other  great  men  wlio  were 
his  contemporaries.  It  is  given  abo  in  D’Achcry,  Spi- 
cilegium,  iii,  503. — English  Cyclopaedia  ; Darling.  Cyclop. 
Bibliographica,  i,  1439 ; Wright,  Biog.  Brit.  Lit.  (J  nglc- 
Xorman  Period). 

Henry  of  Lausanne  (frequently  called  Henry  of 
Clugxy),  founder  of  the  sect  of  Hcnriciuns  in  the  12th 
century.  He  is  represented  by  Papal  writers  as  a her- 
etic and  fanatic, but  the  truth  seems  to  le  that  he  was 
one  of  the  ‘‘reformers  before  the  Reformation.”  He  is 
said  to  have  been  nr  Italian  1 y birth,  and  a monk  of 
Clugny.  Disgusted  with  the  corruptiens  of  the  times, 
he  left  hrs  order,  and  became  “a  preacher  of  repent- 
ance.” At  first  he  was  held  in  high  honor  even  by  the 
clergy.  The  field  of  hrs  labor  was  the  South  of  France ; 
the  time  between  A.D.  1116  and  1148.  His  first  efforts 
were  made  at  Lausanne  and  its  neighborhood  (hence 
his  surname).  His  piety,  modesty,  and  eloquence  soon 
gained  lum  a wide  reputation.  He  preached  vigorously 
against  that  “sham  Christianity  which  did  not  prove 
its  genuineness  by  the  fruits  of  good  living,  and  warn- 
ing against  the  prevalent  vices.  This  led  him  next  to 
want  men  against  their  false  guides,  the  worthless  cler- 
gy, whose  example  and  teaching  did  more  to  promote 
wickedness  than  to  put  a stop  to  it.  lie  contrasted  the 
clergy  as  they  actually  were  with  what  they  ought  to 
be ; he  attacked  their  vices,  particularly  their  unchas- 
tity. He  was  a zealot  for  the  observe  nee  of  the  laws  of 
celibacy,  and  appeared  in  this  respect,  like  other  monks, 
a promoter  of  the  Hildcbrandian  reformation.  It  was 


HENRY 


186 


HENRY 


probably  his  practical,  restless  activity,  and  the  oppo- 
sition that  he  met  with  on  the  part  of  the  higher  cler- 
gy, which  led  him  to  proceed  further,  and,  as  he  traced 
the  cause  of  the  corruption  to  a deviation  from  the  prim- 
itive apostolical  teaching,  to  attack  errors  in  doctrine. 
He  must  have  possessed  extraordinary  power  as  a 
speaker,  and  this  power  was  enhanced  by  his  strict  mode 
of  living.  Many  men  and  women  were  awakened  by 
him  to  repentance,  brought  to  confess  their  sins,  and 
to  renounce  them.  It  was  said  a heart  of  stone  must 
have  melted  under  his  preaching.  The  people  were 
struck  under  such  conviction  by  his  sermons,  which 
seemed  to  lay  open  to  them  their  inmost  hearts,  that 
they  attributed  to  him  a sort  of  prophetic  gift,  by  vir- 
tue of  which  he  could  look  into  the  very  souls  of  men” 
(Neander,  Church  History,  Torrcy’s,  iv,  598).  He  was 
invited  to  Mans,  where  Hildebert,  the  bishop,  favored 
him  at  first;  but  his  preaching  soon  excited  the  people 
against  the  priests  to  such  a degree  that  even  the  mon- 
asteries were  threatened  with  violence.  Ililbebert  drove 
him  from  Mans;  and,  after  various  wanderings,  he  join- 
ed the  disciples  of  Peter  of  Bruys,  in  Provence.  The 
archbishop  of  Arles  arrested  him,  and  at  the  second 
Council  of  Pisa,  1134,  he  was  declared  a heretic,  and 
confined  in  a cell.  “ Subsequently,  however,  he  was 
set  at  liberty,  when  he  betook  himself  again  to  South 
France,  to  the  districts  of  Toulouse  and  Alby,  a princi- 
pal seat  of  anti-churchly  tendencies,  where  also  the  great 
lords,  who  were  striving  to  make  themselves  indepen- 
dent, favored  these  tendencies  from  hatred  to  the  do- 
minion of  the  clergy.  Among  the  lower  classes  and  the 
nobles  Henry  found  great  acceptance;  and,  after  he  had 
labored  for  ten  years  in  <those  regions,  Bernard  of  Clair- 
vaux,  in  writing  to  a nobleman  and  inviting  him  to  put 
down  the  heretics,  could  say,  ‘The  churches  are  without 
flocks,  the  flocks  without  priests,  the  priests  are  no- 
where treated  with  due  reverence,  the  churches  are  lev- 
elled down  to  synagogues,  the  sacraments  are  not  es- 
teemed holy,  the  festivals  are  no  longer  celebrated.’ 
When  Bernard  says,  in  the  words  just  quoted,  that  the 
communities  are  without  priests,  he  means  the  priests 
had  gone  over  to  the  Ilenricians,  for  so  lie  complains  in 
a sermon,  in  which  he  speaks  of  the  rapid  spread  of  this 
sect:  ‘Women  forsake  their  husbands,  and  husbands 
their  wives,  and  run  over  to  this  sect.  Clergymen  and 
priests  desert  their  communities  and  churches;  and 
they  have  been  found  sitting  with  long  beards  (to  mark 
the  habitus  apostolicus ) among  weavers’”  (Neander,  l. 
c.).  Bernard  of  Clairvaux  opposed  him  earnestly.  Pope 
Eugene  III  sent  Bernard,  with  the  cardinal  of  Ostia, 
into  the  infected  district.  Henry  was  arrested,  and  con- 
demned at  the  Council  of  Rheims,  A.D.  1148,  to  impris- 
onment for  life.  He  died  in  prison  A.D.  1149.  See  Bas- 
nage,  Hist,  ties  Eglises  Reformers,  iv,  cli.  vi,  p.  145;  Ne- 
ander, Ch.  Ilist.  iv,  60  L sq. ; Neander,  I/eilige  Bernard, 
p.  '294  sq. ; Ilahn,  Geschichte  tier  Ketzer,  cent,  xii ; Giese- 
ler,  Church  History,  period  iii,  § 84. 

Henry  of  St.  Igxatius,  a Flemish  theologian,  was 
born  at  Ath  in  the  17th  century.  He  joined  the  Car- 
melites of  his  native  city,  and  for  many  years  taught 
theology  in  their  schools.  During  a journey  he  made 
to  Rome  in  1701-1709,  he  acquired  great  influence  with 
pope  Clement  XI.  On  his  return  he  wrote  a number  of 
books  of  Jansenist  tendency,  and  in  which  he  showed 
himself  especially  severe  on  the  Jesuit  casuists.  He 
died  about  1720.  The  most  important  of  his  writings 
are,  Theologia  retus,  fundamentalis  (Liege,  1677,  fob) 
Molinismus projligatus  (Liege,  1715, 2 vols.  8vo) : — Arks 
Jesuitical  (Strasb.  3d  ed.  1710;  4th  ed.  1717,  12mo) 
Tuba  magna  mirum  clangens  sonum,  ad  SYS'.  I).  N. ptipam 
Clementem  XI,  etc.  . . , de  necessitate  reformaiuli  Roc. 
Jesu  (Strasb.  [Utrecht]  1717,  2 vols.  12mo).  See  Du- 
pin,  Bibl.  des  Auteurs  Eccles.  pt.  i;  Richard  et  Giraiul, 
Bibl.  Sacree;  Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiv,  154. 

Henry  of  Zutphen.  See  Moller. 

Henry  IV,  king  of  France  and  Navarre,  son  of 


Antoine  de  Bourbon  and  Jeanne  d’Albret,  was  bom  at 
Pau,  in  Bearn,  Dec.  15, 1553.  He  was  carefully  educated 
in  Protestant  principles  by  his  excellent  mother,  who 
recalled  him  to  her  home  at  Pau  from  the  French  court 
in  1566.  In  1569  lie  joined  the  Huguenot  army  at  La 
Rochelle,  and  was  acknowledged  as  their  leader,  the 
actual  command,  however,  being  left  with  Coligni  (q. 
v.).  The  peace  of  St.  Germain  (1570)  allowed  him  to 
return  to  court,  and  in  1572  he  married  Margaret,  sister 
of  Charles  IX.  The  massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew  fol- 
lowed soon  after,  and  Henry’s  life  was  only  spared  on 
that  awful  night  on  his  promise  to  become  a Roman 
Catholic.  During  the  next  three  years  he  was  watched 
as  a prisoner,  though  not  in  confinement.  In  1576  he 
again  took  the  field  as  the  head  of  the  Huguenots ; and, 
after  years  of  alternate  victory  and  defeat,  he  made 
peace  with  Henry  III,  whose  death  in  1589  made  him, 
in  right  of  the  Salic  law,  king  of  France.  A large  part 
of  the  nation,  however,  was  too  strongly  Roman  Catho- 
lic to  allow  his  accession  to  the  throne  in  peace.  The 
“ League”  made  the  duke  of  Maine  lieutenant  general 
of  the  kingdom ; but  in  1590  the  battle  of  Ivrv,  between 
the  duke  and  Henry,  ended  in  a grand  victory  for  the 
latter.  In  1593  Henry  agreed  to  become  a Roman  Cath- 
olic, and  publicly  recanted  at  St.  Denis.  By  the  year 
1598  all  France  was  peaceably  subject  to  him.  “ Henry 
was  censured  for  his  change  of  religion,  and  by  none 
more  earnestly  than  by  his  faithful  friend  and  counsel- 
lor, Duplessis  Mornay.  On  the  other  hand,  many  of 
the  Roman  Catholics  never  believed  his  conversion  to 
be  sincere.  But  the  truth  probably  was,  that  Henry, 
accustomed  from  his  infancy  'to  the  life  of  camps  and 
the  hurry  of  dissipation,  was  not  capable  of  serious  re- 
ligious meditation,  and  that  he  knew  as  little  of  the  re- 
ligion which  he  forsook  as  of  that  which  he  embraced. 
In  his  long  conference  at  Chartres  in  September,  1593, 
with  Duplessis  Mornay,  which  took  place  after  his  abju- 
ration, he  told  his  friend  that  the  step  he  had  taken  was 
one  not  only  of  prudeuce,  but  of  absolute  necessity; 
that  his  affections  remained  the  same  towards  his  friends 
and  subjects  of  the  Reformed  communion;  and  he  ex- 
pressed a hope  that  he  should  one  day  be  able  to  bring 
about  a union  between  the  two  religions,  which,  he  ob- 
served, differed  less  in  essentials  than  was  supposed. 
To  this  Duplessis  replied  that  no  such  union  could  ever 
be  effected  in  France  unless  the  pope’s  power  was  first 
entirely  abolished  {Mem.  et  Correspondance  de  Duplessis 
Mornay  depuis  Van  1571  jtisqu'en  1623,  Paris,  1824-34)” 
{English  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v.). 

His  reign  was  a very  successful  one,  but  we  are  con- 
cerned here  only  with  its  relations  to  the  Church.  On 
the  15th  of  April,  1598,  Henry  signed  the  Edict  of 
Nantes  (q.  v.)  to  secure  justice  to  his  Protestant  sub- 
jects, and  liberty  of  conscience.  During  Henry’s  life 
no  public  persecution  of  Protestants  was  possible,  but 
the  ignorant  intolerance  of  the  rural  functionaries  and 
priests  often  frustrated  his  good  wishes  and  commands. 
On  the  14th  of  May,  1610,  he  was  assassinated  in  his 
carriage  by  one  Ravaillac,  supposed  to  have  been  a tool 
of  the  Jesuits. 

Henry  VIII,  king  of  England,  was  bom  in  Green- 
wich June  28, 1491.  He  was  second  son  of  Henry  YII 
and  queen  Elizabeth  (of  York).  His  cider  brother  Ar- 
thur, prince  of  Wales,  dying  in  1502,  Henry  became  heir- 
apparent.  In  1503  a dispensation  was  obtained  from 
Julius  II  (pope)  to  allow  Henry  to  marry  his  broth- 
er Arthur’s  widow  (Catharine  of  Aragon)  — a match 
which  turned  out  sadly  enough.  Henry  came  to  the 
throne  April  22,  1509.  The  early  years  of  his  reign 
were  comparatively  uneventful.  Wolsey  became  prime 
minister  about  1513,  and  governed,  for  about  fifteen  years, 
with  a view  to  his  own  ambition  as  well  as  to  the  pas- 
sions of  his  master;  but,  on  the  whole,  England  pros- 
pered under  his  administration.  See  Wolsey.  Henry 
was  at  this  time  an  ardent  advocate  of  Roman  views; 
in  1521  he  published  his  Adsertio  septem  Sacramentot'um 
adversus  Martinum  Luthenim  (4to),  for  which  service 


HENRY 


187 


1IEXRY 


the  pope  conferred  on  him  the  title  of  Defensor  Fidei, 
■which  the  sovereigns  of  England  still  retain.  (See,  for 
details  of  the  controversy  between  Henry  and  Luther, 
Waddington,  History  of  the  Reformation,  cli.  xxi.)  In 
a few  years  Ilenry  began  to  grow  weary  of  his  queen. 
His  male  children  died,  and  he  fancied  that  Provi- 
dence punished  him  in  this  way  for  having  contracted 
an  unlawful  marriage  with  his  brother’s  widow.  The 
question  of  the  legitimacy  of  this  marriage  had  never 
been  fully  settled,  even  by  the  pope’s  authorization. 
At  all  events,  it  was  easy  for  a prince  of  Henry’s  tem- 
perament to  believe  that  the  marriage  was  unlawful, 
when  such  a belief  was  necessary  to  the  gratification 
of  his  passions.  Moreover,  the  Spanish  queen  was  un- 
popular in  England.  Henry  had  recourse  to  an  expe- 
dient suggested  by  Cranmer,  “namely,  to  consult  all 
the  universities  of  Europe  on  the  question  ‘whether 
the  papal  dispensation  for  such  a marriage  was  valid,’ 
and  to  act  on  their  decision  without  further  appeal  to 
the  pope.  The  question  wras  accordingly  put,  and  de- 
cided in  the  negative  by  the  universities  of  Oxford, 
Cambridge,  Paris,  Bologna,  Padua,  Orleans,  Angiers, 
Bourges,  Toulouse,  etc.,  and  1)}’  a multitude  of  theologi- 
ans and  canonists”  (Palmer,  Ch.  History,  p.  159).  Hen- 
ry had  clearly  made  up  his  mind  to  mam'  Anne  Boleyn 
as  soon  as  the  divorce  from  Catharine  could  be  accom- 
plished. “Anne  was  understood  to  be  favorably  dis- 
posed towards  those  new  views  on  the  subject  of  relig- 
ion and  ecclesiastical  affairs  which  had  been  agitating 
all  Europe  ever  since  Luther  had  begun  his  intrepid  ca- 
reer by  publicly  opposing  indulgences  at  Wittenberg  ten 
years  before.  Queen  Catharine,  on  the  other  hand,  was 
a good  Catholic ; and, besides,  the  circumstances  in  which 
she  was  placed  made  it  her  interest  to  take  her  stand  by 
the  Church,  as,  on  the  other  hand,  her  adversaries  were 
driven  in  like  manner  by  their  interests  and  the  course 
of  events  into  dissent  and  opposition.  This  one  con- 
sideration sufficiently  explains  all  that  followed.  The 
friends  of  the  old  religion  generally  considered  Catha- 
rine’s cause  as  their  own ; the  Reformers  as  naturally  ar- 
rayed themselves  on  the  side  of  her  rival.  Henry  him- 
self again,  though  he  had  been  till  now  resolutely  op- 
posed to  the  new  opinions,  was  carried  over  by  his  pas- 
sion toward  the  same  side;  the  consequence  of  which 
was  the  loss  of  the  royal  favor  by  those  who  had  hith- 
erto monopolized  it,  and  its  transference  in  great  part  to 
other  men,  to  be  employed  by  them  in  the  promotion  of 
entirely  opposite  purposes  and  politics.  The  proceed- 
ings for  the  divorce  were  commenced  by  an  application 
to  the  court  of  Rome  in  August,  1527.  For  two  years 
the  affair  lingered  on  through  a succession  of  legal  pro- 
ceedings, but  without  any  decisive  result.  From  the 
autumn  of  1529  are  to  be  dated  both  the  fall  of  Wolsey 
and  the  rise  of  Cranmer.  See  Craxmeu,  Thomas.  The 
death  of  the  great  cardinal  took  place  on  the  29th  of 
November,  1530.  In  January  following  the  first  blow 
was  struck  at  the  Church  by  an  indictment  being 
brought  into  the  King’s  Bench  against  all  the  clergy  of 
the  kingdom  for  supporting  Wolscv  in  the  exercise  of 
his  legatine  powers  without  the  royal  license,  as  required 
by  the  old  statutes  of  provisors  and  premunire ; and  it 
was  in  an  act  passed  immediately  after  by  the  Convoca- 
tion of  the  province  of  Canterbury,  for  granting  to  the 
king  a sum  of  money  to  exempt  them  from  the  penal- 
ties of  their  conviction  on  this  indictment,  that  the  first 
movement  was  made  toward  a revolt  against  the  see  of 
Rome,  by  the  titles  given  to  Henry  of  ‘ the  one  protect- 
or of  the  English  Church,  its  only  and  supreme  lord,  and, 
as  far  as  might  be  by  the  law  of  Christ,  its  supreme 
head.’  Shortly  after,  the  convocation  declared  the  king’s 
marriage  with  Catharine  to  be  contrary  to  the  law  of 
God.  The  same  year  Henry  went  the  length  of  openly 
countenancing  Protestantism  abroad  by  remitting  a sub- 
sidy to  the  confederacy  of  rhe  elector  of  Brandenburg 
and  other  German  princes,  called  the  League  .of  Smal- 
cald.  In  August,  1532,  Cranmer  was  appointed  to  the 
archbishopric  of  Canterbury.  In  the  beginning  of  the 


year  1533  Henry  was  privately  married  to  Anne  Boleyn ; 
and  on  the  23d  of  May  following  archbishop  Cranmer 
pronounced  the  former  marriage  with  Catharine  void. 
In  the  mean  time  the  Parliament  had  passed  an  act  for- 
bidding all  appeals  to  the  See  of  Rome.  Pope  Clement 
VII  met  this  by  annulling  the  sentence  of  Cranmer  in 
the  matter  of  the  marriage,  on  which  the  separation 
from  Rome  became  complete.  Acts  were  passed  by  the 
Parliament  the  next  year  declaring  that  the  clergy 
should  in  future  be  assembled  in  convocation  only  by 
the  king’s  writ,  that  no  constitutions  enacted  by  them 
should  be  of  force  without  the  king’s  assent,  and  that  no 
first-fruits,  or  Peter’s  pence,  or  money  for  dispensations, 
shoidd  be  any  longer  paid  to  the  pope.  The  clergy  of 
the  province  of  York  themselves  in  convocation  declared 
that  the  pope  had  no  more  power  in  England  than  any 
other  bishop.  A new  and  most  efficient  supporter  of  the 
Reformation  now  also  becomes  conspicuous  on  the  scene, 
Thomas  Cromwell  (afterwards  lord  Cromwell  and  carl 
of  Essex),  who  was  this  year  made  first  secretary  of 
state,  and  then  master  of  the  rolls.  See  Cromwell, 
Thomas.  In  the  next  session,  the  Parliament,  which 
reassembled  in  the  end  of  this  same  year,  passed  acts 
declaring  the  king’s  highness  to  be  supreme  head  of  the 
Church  of  England,  and  to  have  authority  to  redress  all 
errors,  heresies,  and  abuses  in  the  Clutreh ; and  order- 
ing first-fruits  and  tenths  of  all  spiritual  bemficcs  to  be 
paid  to  the  king.  After  this,  various  persons  were  exe- 
cuted for  refusing  to  acknowledge  the  king’s  supremacy ; 
among  others,  two  illustrious  victims,  the  learned  Fish- 
er, bishop  of  Rochester,  and  the  admirable  Sir  Thomas 
More.  See  Fisher,  John;  More,  Thomas.  In  1535 
began  the  dissolution  of  the  monasteries,  under  the  zeal- 
ous superintendence  of  Cromwell,  constituted  for  that 
purpose  visitor  general  of  these  establishments.  Lati- 
mer and  other  friends  of  Cranmer  and  the  Reformation 
were  now  also  promoted  to  bishopries;  so  that  not  only 
in  matters  of  discipline  and  polity,  but  even  of  doctrine, 
the  Church  might  be  said  to  have  separated  itself  from 
Rome.  One  of  the  last  acts  of  the  Parliament  under 
which  all  these  great  innovations  had  been  made  was  to 
petition  the  king  that  a new’  translation  of  the  Scrip- 
tures might  be  made  by  authority  and  set  up  in  church- 
es. It  w as  dissolved  on  the  18th  of  July,  1533,  after 
having  sat  for  the  then  unprecedented  period  of  six 
years.  The  month  of  May  of  this  year  witnessed  the 
trial  and  execution  of  queen  Anne  — in  less  than  six 
months  after  the  death  of  her  predecessor,  Catharine  of 
Aragon — and  the  marriage  of  the  brutal  king,  the  very 
next  morning,  to  Jane  Seymour,  the  new’  beauty,  his 
passion  for  whom  must  be  regarded  as  the  true  motive 
that  had  impelled  him  to  the  deed  of  blood.  Queen 
Jane  dying  on  the  14th  of  October,  1537,  a few’  days  af- 
ter giving  birth  to  a son,  was  succeeded  by  Anne,  sister 
of  the  duke  of  Cleves,  whom  Henry  married  in  January, 
1540,  and  put  away  in  six  months  after — the  subservient 
Parliament,  and  the  not  less  subservient  convocation  of 
the  clergy,  on  his  mere  request,  pronouncing  the  mar- 
riage to  be  null,  and  the  former  body  making  it  high 
treason  ‘by  word  or  deed  to  accept,  take,  judge,  or  be- 
lieve the  said  marriage  to  be  good.’  Meanwhile  the  ec- 
clesiastical changes  continued  to  proceed  at  as  rapid  a 
rate  as  ever.  In  1530  Cromwell  was  constituted  a sort 
of  lord  lieutenant  over  the  Church,  by  the  title  of  vicar 
general,  which  was  held  to  invest  him  with  all  the  king’s 
authority  over  the  spirituality.  The  dissolution  of  the 
monasteries  in  this  and  the  follow’ing  year,  as  carried 
forward  under  the  direction  cf  this  energetic  minister, 
produced  a succession  of  popular  insurrections  in  differ- 
ent parts  of  the  kingdom,  which  were  not  put  down 
without  great  destruction  of  life,  both  in  the  field  and 
afterwards  by  the  executioner.  In  1538  all  incumbents 
w’ere  ordered  to  set  up  in  their  churches  copies  of  the 
newly-published  English  translation  of  the  Bible,  and 
to  teach  the  people  the  Creed,  the  Lord’s  Prayer,  and 
the  Ten  Commandments,  in  English ; the  famous  image 
of  our  Lady  at  Walsingham,  and  other  similar  objects 


HENRY 


188 


HENRY 


of  the  popular  veneration,  were  also,  under  Cromwell’s 
order,  removed  from  their  shrines  ami  burnt”  (English 
Cyclopaedia,  s.  v.). 

But  Henry  never  abandoned  the  special  Romanist 
opinions  to  which  he  had  committed  himself  personally 
by  controversy.  “When,  in  1538,  the  princes  of  the 
League  of  Smalcald  offered  to  place  him  at  its  head, 
and  even  to  alter,  if  possible,  the  Augsburg  Confession 
so  as  to  make  it  a common  basis  of  union  for  all  the 
elements  of  opposition  to  Rome,  Henry  was  well  inclined 
to  obtain  the  political  advantages  of  the  position  tender- 
ed him,  but  hesitated  to  accept  it  until  all  doctrinal 
questions  should  be  settled.  The  three  points  on  which 
the  Germans  insisted  were  the  communion  in  both  ele- 
ments, the  worship  in  the  vulgar  tongue,  and  the  mar- 
riage of  the  clergy.  Henry  was  firm,  and  the  ambassa- 
dors of  the  League  spent  two  months  in  conferences 
with  the  English  bishops  and  doctors  without  result. 
On  their  departure  (Aug.  5,  1538)  they  addressed  him 
a letter  arguing  the  subjects  in  debate — the  refusal  of 
the  cup,  private  masses,  and  sacerdotal  celibacy  — to 
which  Henry  replied  at  some  length,  defending  his  po- 
sition on  these  topics  with  no  little  skill  and  dexterity, 
and  refusing  his  assent  finally.  The  Reformers,  how- 
ever, did  not  yet  despair,  and  the  royal  preachers  even 
ventured  occasionally  to  debate  the  propriety  of  clerical 
marriage  freely  before  him  in  their  sermons,  but  in  vain. 
An  epistle  which  Melancthon  addressed  him  in  April, 
1530,  arguing  the  same  questions  again,  had  no  better 
effect.  Notwithstanding  any  seeming  hesitation,  Hen- 
ry’s mind  was  fully  made  up,  and  the  consequences  of 
endeavoring  to  persuade  him  against  his  prejudices  soon 
became  apparent.  Confirmed  in  his  opinions,  he  pro- 
ceeded to  enforce  them  upon  his  subjects  in  the  most 
arbitrary  manner;  ‘for,  though  on  nil  other  points  he 
had  set  up  the  doctrines  of  the  Augsburg  Confession,’ 
yet  on  these  he  had  committed  himself  as  a controver- 
sialist, and  the  worst  passions  of  polemical  authorship — 
the  true  ‘odium  theologicum’ — acting  through  his  irre- 
sponsible disposition,  rendered  him  the  cruellest  of  per- 
secutors. But  a few  weeks  after  receiving  the  letter  of 
Melancthon,  he  answered  it  in  his  own  savage  fashion” 
(Lea,  Sacerdotal  Celibacy , p.  481).  In  1539,  under  the 
ascendency  of  bishop  Gardner  (q.  v.),  the  “ Six  Articles” 
were  enacted,  in  favor  of  transubstantiation,  communion 
in  one  kind,  celibacy,  private  masses,  and  auricular  con- 
fession. See  Articles,  Six,  vol.  i,  p.  442.  Cromwell 
endeavored  to  mitigate  the  severity  of  the  government 
in  its  cruel  persecutions  of  all  who  would  not  accept 
these  articles,  and  lost  his  own  head  for  his  temerity  in 

1540.  In  the  same  year  Henry  was  divorced  from  Anne 
of  Cleves  and  married  to  Catharine  Howard,  who,  in 

1541,  was  herself  repudiated  and  executed  for  adultery. 
He  then  married  his  sixth  wife,  Catharine  Parr,  who 
survived  him.  The  licentious  monarch  died  Jan.  28, 
1547. 

Much  has  been  made  by  Roman  Catholic  controvert- 
ists  of  the  bad  life  of  Henry  VIII  as  an  argument 
against  the  Reformation.  On  this  point  we  cite  Pal- 
mer, as  follows:  “The  character  of  Henry  VIII,  or  of 
any  other  temporal  or  spiritual  promoters  of  reforma- 
tion in  the  Church,  affords  (even  if  it  were  not  exag- 
gerated) no  proof  that  the  Reformation  was  in  itself 
wrong.  Admitting,  then,  that  Henry  and  others  were 
justly  accused  of  crimes,  the  Reformation  which  they 
promoted  may  in  itself  have  been  a just  and  necessary 
work;  and  it  would  have  been  irrational  and  wrong  in 
the  Church  of  England  to  have  refused  all  considera- 
tion of  subjects  proposed  to  her  examination  or  appro- 
bation by  the  royal  authority,  and  to  refuse  her  sanction 
to  reforms  in  themselves  laudable,  merely  because  the 
character  of  the  king  or  his  ministers  were  unsaintlv, 
and  his  or  their  private  motives  suspected  to  be  wrong. 
Such  conduct  on  the  part  of  the  Church  would  have 
been  needlessly  offensive  to  temporal  riders,  while  it 
would  (in  the  supposed  case)  have  been  actually  injuri- 
ous to  the  cause  of  religion,  and  an  uncharitable  judg- 


ment of  private  motives.  It  must  be  remembered  that 
although  Henry  and  the  protector  Somerset  may  have 
been  secretly  influenced  by  avarice,  revenge,  or  other 
evil  passions,  they  have  never  made  them  public.  They 
avowed  as  their  reasons  for  supporting  reformation  the 
desire  of  removing  usurpations,  establishing  the  ancient 
rights  of  the  Church  and  the  crown,  correcting  various 
abuses  prejudicial  to  true  religion,  and  therefore  the 
Church  could  not  refuse  to  take  into  consideration  the 
specific  object  of  reformation  proposed  by  them  to  her 
examination  or  sanction.  Nor  does  the  justification  of 
the  Church  of  England  in  any  degree  depend  on  the 
question  of  the  lawfulness  of  Henry’s  marriage  with 
Catharine  of  Aragon  or  with  Anne  Boleyn;  such  mat- 
ters, as  Bossuet  observes,  “ are  often  regulated  by  mere 
probabilities,”  and  there  were  at  least  abundant  proba- 
bilities that  the  marriage  with  Catharine  was  null  ab 
initio;  but  this  whole  question  only  affects  the  charac- 
ter of  Henry  VIII  and  of  those  immediately  engaged  in 
i it ; it  does  not  affect  the  reformation  of  the  Church  of 
England”  (Palmer,  On  the  Church,  part  ii,  chap.  i).  See 
England,  Church  of. 

Henry,  Matthew,  a celebrated  English  noncon- 
formist divine  and  commentator,  -was  bom  at  the  farm- 
house of  Broad  Oak,  Flintshire,  the  dwelling  of  his  mater- 
nal grandfather,  Oct.  18, 1GG2.  His  parents  had  retired 
to  that  place  because  his  father.  Rev.  Philip  Henry  (q.  v.), 
had  been  ejected  from  his  parish  by  the  Act  of  Uniform- 
ity in  1G62.  His  early  education  was  obtained  in  the 
school  of  Mr.  Doolittle  at  Islington.  In  1G85  he  entered 
Gray's  Inn  as  a student  of  law ; but  his  religious  life  had 
been  settled  at  an  early  age,  and  his  bent  of  mind  was 
towards  the  ministry.  While  at  Gray’s  Inn  he  devoted 
much  of  his  time  to  theological  studies.  In  1G8G  he  re- 
turned to  Broad  Oak,  and  soon  began  to  preach,  by  the 
invitation  of  his  friend,  Mr.  Illidge,  at  Nantwich.  The 
fame  of  his  discourses  having  spread,  he  was  invited  to 
Chester,  where  be  preached  in  the  house  of  a Mr.  Hcn- 
thorne,  a sugar-baker,  to  a small  audience  which  formed 
the  nucleus  of  his  future  congregation.  But  in  1G87 
king  James  granted  license  to  dissenters  to  preach.  Mr. 
Henry  accepted  a call  to  a dissenting  congregation  in 
Chester,  where  he  remained  twenty-five  years.  During 
this  period  he  went  through  the  Bible  more  than  once 
in  expository  lectures.  In  1712  he  accepted  the  charge 
of  a chapel  in  Hackney,  London.  “At  the  commence- 
ment of  his  ministry,  therefore,  he  began  with  the  first 
chapter  of  Genesis  in  the  forenoon,  and  the  first  chapter 
of  Matthew  in  the  afternoon.  Thus  gradually  and 
steadily  grew  his  ‘Exposition’  of  the  Bible.  A large 
portion  of  it  consists  of  his  public  lectures,  while  many 
of  the  quaint  sayings  and  pithy  remarks  with  which  it 
abounds,  and  which  give  so  great  a charm  of  raciness 
to  its  pages,  were  the  familiar  extempore  observations 
of  his  father  at  family  worship,  and  noted  down  by 
Matthew  in  his  boyhood.”  He  suffered  much  from  the 
stone  in  his  later  years,  but  his  labors  continued  una- 
bated. It  w'as  bis  habit  to  make  a visit  to  Chester  once 
a year.  In  1714  he  set  out  on  this  journey,  May  31. 
On  his  return  he  was  taken  ill  with  paralysis  at  Nant- 
wich, where  he  said  to  his  friend,  Mr.  Illidge,  “ You  hare 
been  used  to  take  notice  o f the  sayings  of  dying  men ; this 
is  mine:  that  a life  spent  in  the  sendee  of  God,  and  com- 
munion with  him,  is  the  most  pleasant  life  that  any  one 
can  lice  in  this  world."  He  died  June  22,  1714.  Mr. 
Henry  was  a faithful  pastor,  a discriminating  preacher, 
and  a laborious,  versatile,  and  original  author.  “Al- 
though his  publications  furnish  much  less  to  afford  grat- 
ification, in  a literary  point  of  view,  than  do  the  works 
of  many  who  are  justly  designated  ‘fine  writers,’  they 
possess  a vigor  which,  without  the  least  endeavor  to  at- 
tract, awakens  and  sustains  the  attention  in  an  uncom- 
mon degree.  In  a single  sentence  he  often  pours  upon 
Scripture  a flood  of  light ; and  the  palpableness  he  gives 
to  the  wonders  contained  in  God’s  law  occasions  excite- 
ment not  unlike  that  which  is  produced  by  looking 
through  a microscope.  The  feelings,  too,  which  bis 


HENRY 


189 


HENSHAW 


subject  had  called  forth  in  himself  he  communicates  ad- 
mirably to  others.  In  his  whole  manner — the  same  at 
nine  years  old  as  at  fifty — there  is  a freshness  and  vi- 
vacity which  instantly  put  the  spirits  into  free  and  agile 
motion — an  effect  somewhat  similar  to  that  play  of  in- 
tellectual sprightliness  which  some  minds  (obviously  the 
greatest  only)  have  the  indescribable  facidty  of  creating. 
But  the  crowning  excellency  remains;  nothing  is  intro- 
duced in  the  shape  of  counteraction.  There  are  no 
speeches  which  make  his  sincerity  questionable ; no  ab- 
surdities to  force  suspicion  as  to  accuracy  in  theological 
knowledge,  or  inattention  to  the  analogy  of  faith ; no 
staggering,  and  untoward,  and  unmanageable  inconsist- 
encies; nothing  by  which  ‘the  most  sacred  cause  can 
be  injured;’  or  the  highest  interests  of  men  placed  in 
jeopardy;  or  which  can  render  it  imperative,  exactly  in 
proportion  as  the  understanding  is  influenced,  to  repress 
or  extinguish  the  sentiments,  -in  order  to  listen  with 
complacency  to  the  Lord  Jesus  and  his  apostles’  ” (Fos- 
ter, Essays , p.  440).  Ilis  most  important  work  is  An 
Exposition  of  the  Old  and  Xew  Testament  (many  edi- 
tions; best,  London,  1849,  6 vols.  4to ; New  York,  6 vols. 
imp.  8vo).  It  was  completed  by  Henry  up  to  Acts;  the 
rest  was  framed  on  his  MSS,  by  a number  of  ministers. 
It  is  a popular  rather  than  a scientific  commentary, 
abounding  in  practical  wisdom;  and  it  has  been  more 
widely  circulated  than  any  work  of  the  kind,  except, 
perhaps,  Clarke’s  Commentary.  lie  also  published  a 
Life  of  Philip  Henry , and  a nnmber  of  sermons  and 
practical  writings,  which  may  be  found  in  his  Miscella- 
neous IFo/is-,  edited  by  J.  B.  Williams  (Lond.  1830,  imp. 
8vo ; N.  Y.  1850,  2 vols.  8vo).  See  Williams,  Life  and 
Writings  of  M.  Henry  (prefixed  to  his  Miscel.  IFbrAvO; 
Tong,  Life  of  M.  Henry  (171G,  8vo;  also  reprinted  with 
the  Exposition) ; Allibone,  Dictionary  of  A uthors , i,  824; 
Literary  and  Theological  Review,  i,  281 ; lvitto’s  Journal 
of  Sacred  Lit.  ii,  222;  Bogne  and  Bennett,  History  of 
the  Dissenters,  i,  493. 

Henry,  Paul  Emile,  a Protestant  writer,  was  bom 
at  Potsdam  March  22,  1792.  He  was  of  French  ex- 
traction, and  studied  at  the  French  College  in  Berlin. 
He  afterwards  devoted  himself  to  the  study  of  Hebrew. 
He  was  consecrated  minister  at  Neufchatel  in  1813,  vis- 
ited Paris  in  1814,  during  the  occupation  of  the  city  by 
the  Allies.  Having  returned  to  Berlin,  he  was  appoint- 
ed catechist  of  the  Orphan  Asylum,  pastor  of  the  church 
of  Frederickstadt  in  182G,  and  director  of  the  French 
Seminary.  He  died  at  Berlin  Nov.  24, 1853.  lie  wrote 
Das  Leben  Johann  Calvin's  (Berlin,  1844;  Ilamb.  1835- 
44,  3 vols.  8vo;  184G,  8vo ; transl.  by  Stebbing,  Life  and 
Times  of  Calvin , Lond.  1849,  2 vols.  8vo).  lie  publish- 
ed also  a German  translation  of  the  Confession  of  Faith 
of  the  French  Reformed  Church  (Berlin,  1845).  He  in- 
tended publishing  a collection  of  Calvin’s  letters  as  a 
continuation  of  the  Life  of  that  reformer,  but  died  be- 
fore it  was  completed.  [See  Haag,  La  France  Protes- 
tante;  Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gene  rale,  xxiv,  225. 

Henry,  Philip,  an  English  dissenting  divine,  was 
born  Aug.  24,  1631,  at  the  palace  of  Whitehall,  where 
his  father  was  page  to  James,  duke  of  York.  He  was 
educated  at  Westminster  School,  and  at  Christ  Church, 
Oxford,  where  he  obtained  a studentship  in  1G48.  He 
was  ordained  as  a Presbyterian  minister  in  1657,  and 
settled  at  Worthenbnrv,  Flintshire.  He  married  Miss 
Mathews,  a lady  of  fortune,  and  became  possessed  of 
the  estate  of  Broad  Oak,  Shropshire.  He  was  driven 
out  of  his  church  by  the  Act  of  Uniformity  in  1GG2. 
“ Our  sins,"  he  said,  “ have  made  Bartholomew-day,  in 
the  year  16G2,  the  saddest  day  for  England  since  the 
death  of  Edward  the  Sixth,  but  even  this  for  good.” 
By  the  Conventicle  and  Five-mile  acts  he  was  driven 
from  his  house,  and  compelled  to  seek  safety  in  conceal- 
ment. In  1G87,  when  king  James  proclaimed  liberty 
of  conscience,  Mr.  Henry  immediately  fitted  up  part  of 
his  own  house  for  worship.  His  labors  were  not  con- 
fined to  Broad  Oak,  but  it  was  his  habit  to  preach  daily 


at  different  places  in  the  neighborhood.  But  his  labors 
hastened  his  rest  ; for,  when  writing  to  a friend  who 
anxiously  inquired  after  his  health,  he  says,  “ I am  al- 
ways habitually  wean*,  and  expect  no  other  till  I lie 
down  in  the  bed  of  spices.”  He  died  June  24, 1G9G,  ex- 
claiming, “O  death,  where  is  thy  sting  V”  An  account 
of  his  Life  and  Death  was  written  by  his  son  Matthew, 
and  has  often  been  reprinted  (see  Henry,  Miscellaneous 
UWAv?,  vol.  i;  N.  York,  Carters,  1855,  2 vols.  8vo).  A 
volume  of  his  Sermons,  with  notes  by  Williams,  was 
first  published  in  181G  (London,  8vo),  and  has  since  been 
reprinted  in  the  Miscellaneous  Works  of  Mr.  Henry, 
above  cited.  See  Life  by  Matt.  Henry ; Jones,  Christian 
Biography  ; Bogue  and  Bennett,  History  of  the  Dissent- 
ers, i,  433. 

Henry,  Thomas  Charlton,  a Presbyterian  min- 
ister, was  born  in  Philadelphia  Sept.  22, 1790,  and  was 
educated  at  Middlebury  College,  Vt.,  where  he  gradua- 
ted in  1814.  After  studying  theology  at  Princeton,  he 
was  ordained  in  18]  G;  became  pastor  of  a Presbyterian 
church  in  Columbia,  S.  C.,  1818 ; and  removed  to  the 
Second  Church,  Charleston,  in  1824.  In  1826  his  health 
failed,  and  he  spent  several  months  travelling  in  Eu- 
rope. He  died  in  Charleston  of  yellow  fever,  Oct.  5, 
1827.  He  published  A Plea  for  the  West  (1824) : — An 
Inquiry  into  the  Consistency  of  Popular  Amusements  icitk 
Christianity  (Charleston,  1825,  12mo) : — Etchings  from 
the  Religious  World  (Charleston,  1828, 8vo) : — Letters  to 
an  Anxious  Inquirer  (1828.  12mo ; also  London,  1829, 
with  a memoir  of  the  author). — Allibone,  Dictionary  of 
A uthors,  i,  82G ; Sprague,  A nnals,  iv,  538. 

Henschenius,  Godfrev,  a Dutch  Jesuit  and  ec- 
clesiastical historian,  was  born  at  Yenrai,  Flanders,  Jan. 
21, 1601.  In  1635  he  was  appointed  assistant  to  Bol- 
landus  in  compiling  the  Acta  Sanctorum  (q.  v.).  After 
the  death  of  Bollandus  in  1665,  when  only  five  volumes 
of  that  work  had  made  their  appearance,  father  Daniel 
Papebroch  was  associated  with  Henschenius  in  the  task 
of  completing  it.  Henschenius  continued  the  work  un- 
til his  death  in  1681. — Alegambe,  Script.  Soc.Jesu,  s.v. ; 
Iloefer,  Xouv.  Bing.  Generate,  xxiv,  231. 

Hensliavr,  John  K.,  D.D,  a bishop  of  the  Protes- 
tant Episcopal  Church,  was  born  in  Middletown,  Conn., 
June  13,  1792,  and  passed  A.B.  in  Middlebury  College 
in  1808.  He  was  bred  a Congregationalist,  but,  under 
the  influence  of  Rev.  Dr.  Kewley,  then  of  Middletown, 
he  became  religions,  and  entered  the  Protestant  Epis- 
copal Church.  Bishop  Griswold  appointed  him  a lay 
reader,  and  by  his  zealous  labors  several  congregations 
were  established  in  different  parts  of  Vermont.  On  his 
twenty-first  birthday  he  was  ordained  deacon,  and  soon 
after  he  was  called  to  St.  Ann’s  Church,  Brooklyn,  N. 
Y.,  where,  on  his  twenty-fourth  birth-day  (.lime  13, 
1816),  he  was  ordained  priest.  In  1817  he  was  called  to 
St.  Peter's,  Baltimore,  where  he  served  as  pastor  until 
uninterrupted  success  for  twenty-six  years.  In  1830 
the  degree  of  D.D.  was  conferred  upon  him  by  Middle- 
bury College.  In  1843  he  was  elected  bishop  of  Rhode 
Island,  and  made  rector  of  Grace  Church,  Providence, 
lie  was  alike  energetic  and  successful  in  his  parish  and 
1 in  his  diocese,  and  during  his  administration  the  Church 
J grew  not  only  in  numbers,  but  in  power.  In  1*52  he 
was  called  to  perform  episcopal  functions  in  the  diocese 
of  Maryland  during  bishop  Whittingham’s  absence : and 
on  the  19th  of  July,  1852,  he  died  of  apoplexy,  near 
Frederick,  Maryland.  Bishop  Henshaw  was  a man  of 
clear,  sound,  and  vigorous  intellect:  he  was  trained  to 
patient  labor,  and  liis  moral  power  was  very  great  in- 
deed. These  qualities  fitted  him  eminently  for  bis 
work,  and  both  within  and  without  the  Church  he  was 
recognised  as  in  even"  way  worthy  to  exercise  the  high 
functions  of  a Christian  bishop.  He  published  several 
Sermons,  Charges,  and  Discourses An  Oration  deliver- 
ed before  the  Associated  Alumni  of  Middlebury  College 
(1827):— A volume  of  Hymns  (1832) : — The  Usefulness 
of  Sunday  Schools : — Ilenshaw's  Sheridan  (1834) : — The* 


IIEPHA 


190 


HERACLITUS 


olorjyf°r  the  People  of  Baltimore  (1840,  8vo)  : — Memoir 
of  Right  Rev.  Richard  Charming  Moore,  D.D.  (1842)  : — 
An  Inquiry  concerning  the  Second  Advent  (1842).  See 
Sprague,  Annals,  v,  545;  Church  Review,  v,  397. 

He'pha  (Heb.  Cheypluth ',  !"i2*in,  in  tlie  Talmud, 
Schwarz,  Palest,  p.  197 ; mentioned  by  several  ancient 
writers  [Reland,  Palcest.  p.  699]  as  lying  on  the  Phoeni- 
cian coast  of  Palestine;  the  Sycaminos  of  the  Onomast., 
the  Jerusalem  Itin.,  and  Josephus  [Ant.  xiii,  12,3]),  the 
modern  Haifa,  a place  of  considerable  trade  at  the  foot 
of  Carmel,  on  the  bay  of  Acre  (Robinson,  Researches,  iii, 
194),  with  the  ruins  of  Sycaminos  1^  mile  north-west  of 
the  present  town  (Van  dc  Velde,  Memoir,  p.  320). 

He'plier  (Heb.  Che'pher,  “2H,  a well,  or  shame; 
Sept.  'O or  "O <ptp,  "EQtp  and  ’A0l p,  but  ’H0d\  in  1 
Chron.  i,  G),  the  name  of  a city  and  of  three  men.  See 
also  Gatii-iiepher. 

1.  A royal  city  of  the  Canaanites  captured  by  Joshua 
(Josh,  xii,  17);  probably  the  same  district  as  “the  land 
of  Hopher,”  in  the  vicinity  of  Sochoh  and  Aruboth,  as- 
signed to  Bcn-Hescd,  one  of  Solomon’s  table-purveyors 
(1  Kings  iv,  10).  The  locality  thus  indicated  would 
seem  to  be  in  the  vicinity  of  Um-Burj,  south  of  Suwei- 
elieh. 

2.  The  youngest  son  of  Gilead,  and  great-grandson 
of  Manasseh  (Numb,  xxvi,  32).  He  was  the  father  of 
Zelophehad  (Numb,  xxvii,  1 ; Josh,  xvii,  2,  3),  and  his 
descendants  are  called  Hepherites  (Numb,  xxvi,  32). 
B.C.  ante  1618. 

3.  The  second  son  of  Ashur  (a  descendant  of  Judah) 
by  one  of  his  wives,  Naarah  (1  Chron.  iv,  6).  B.C.  cir. 
1612. 

4.  A Meclierathite,  one  of  David’s  heroes,  according 
to  1 Chron.  xi,  36;  but  the  text  is  apparently  corrupt, 
so  that  this  name  is  either  an  interpolation,  or  identical 
with  the  Elipiialet  of  2 Sam.  xxiii,  34.  See  Ur. 

He'pherite  (Ileb.  Chephri \ *^Bn,  Sept.  Ofepi),  a 
descendant  of  IIepher  2 (Numb,  xxvi,  32). 

Heph'zi-bah  (Heb.  Chephtsi-bah',  my 

delight  is  in  her),  a (fern.)  real  and  also  symbolical  name. 

1.  (Sept.  ’Ei//i/3d,Vulg.  Ilaphsiba.)  The  mother  of 
king  Manasseh,  and  consequently  queen  dowager  of 
king  Hezekiali  (2  Kings  xxi,  1).  Notwithstanding  the 
piety  of  her  husband,  and  her  own  amiable  name,  her 
irreligion  may  be  inferred  from  the  character  of  her  son. 
B.C.  709-696. 

2.  (Sept.  0iX?7//a  Vulg.  Voluntas  mea  in  ea.)  A 
figurative  title  ascribed  to  Zion  in  token  of  Jehovah’s 
favor  (in  the  return  from  the  Captivity,  and  especially 
in  the  Messiah’s  advent),  in  contrast  with  her  predicted 
desolation  (Isa.  lxii,  4). 

Heraclas,  Saint,  patriarch  of  Alexandria,  was  a 
brother  of  Plutarch,  who  was  martyred  about  A.D.  204, 
under  Septimius  Severus.  They  had  both  been  heathen, 
but  were  converted  by  Origen,  who  was  then  teaching 
at  Alexandria.  After  escaping  from  the  persecution  to 
which  his  brother  fell  victim,  Heraclas  became  an  as- 
cetic, but  still  continued  to  study  Greek  philosophy  un- 
der Ammonias  Saccas.  lie  was  next  associated  with 
Origen  as  a catechist,  and  when  the  latter  was  com- 
pelled to  leave  Egypt  on  account  of  his  difficulty  with 
Demetrius  of  Alexandria,  Heraclas  remained  alone  in 
charge  of  the  theological  school  of  that  city.  He  re- 
tained this  position  until  he  became  himself  patriarch. 
He  died  in  246.  The  Roman  martyrology  commemo- 
rates him  on  the  14th  of  July.  See  Eusebius,  Hist.  Rc- 
cles.  vi,  15;  Tillemont,  Me  moires  Eccles.  vol.  iii ; Baillet, 
Vies  des  Saints,  July  14th. 

Heracleon.  See  IIeracleonites. 

Heracleonites,  a Gnostic  sect  of  the  2d  century, 
so  named  from  Heracleon  (a  disciple  of  Valentinus),  who 
•was  distinguished  for  his  scientific  bent  of  mind.  “He 
wrote  a commentary  on  the  Gospel  of  St.  John,  consider- 
able fragments  of  which  have  been  preserved  by  Origen ; 


perhaps  also  a commentary  on  the  Gospel  according  to 
Luke.  Of  the  latter,  a single  fragment  only,  the  expo- 
sition of  Luke  xii,  8,  has  been  preserved  by  Clement  of 
Alexandria  (Strom,  iv,  5C3).  It  may  easily  be  conceived 
that  the  spiritual  depth  and  fulness  of  John  must  have 
been  pre-eminently  attractive  to  the  Gnostics.  To  the 
exposition  of  this  gospel  Heracleon  brought  a profound 
religious  sense,  which  penetrated  to  the  inward  mean- 
ing, together  with  an  understanding  invariably  clear 
when  not  led  astray  by  theosopliie  speculation.  But 
what  he  chiefly  lacked  was  a faculty  to  appreciate  the 
simplicity  of  John,  and  earnest  application  to  those  nec- 
essary means  for  evolving  the  spirit  out  of  the  letter, 
the  deficiency  in  which  among  the  Gnostics  generally 
has  already  been  made  a subject  of  remark.  Heracleon 
honestly  intended, indeed,  so  far  as  we  can  see,  to  derive, 
his  theology  from  John.  But  he  was  entirely  warped 
by  his  system ; and  with  all  his  habits  of  thought  and 
contemplation,  so  entangled  in  its  mesh-work  that  he 
could  not  move  out  of  it  with  freedom,  but,  spite  of  him- 
self, implied  its  views  and  its  ideas  in  the  Scriptures, 
which  he  regarded  as  the  fountain  of  divine  wisdom” 
(Ncander).  His  fragments  are  gathered  in  Grabe,  Spi- 
cilegium,  ii,  83.  See  Neander,  Ch.  History,  i,  434;  Mos- 
lieim,  Comm,  i,  472 ; Lardner,  Works,  ii,  256;  and  the  ar- 
ticle Gnostics. 

Heracles.  See  Hercules. 

Heraclitus  (HpdicAaroc),  a philosopher  of  Ephe- 
sus, flourished  about  B.  C.  500.  He  belonged  to  the  Ioni- 
an school.  “ He  was  a profound  thinker,  of  an  inquisi- 
tive spirit,  and  the  founder  of  a sect  called  after  him, 
whieh  had  considerable  reputation  and  influence.  His 
humor  was  melancholy  and  sarcastic,  whieh  he  indulged 
at  the  expense  of  the  democracy  established  in  his  na- 
tive town,  and  with  -which  he  was  disgusted.  The 
knowledge  he  had  acquired  of  the  systems  of  preceding 
philosophers  (vying  with  one  another  in  boldness),  of 
Thales,  Pythagoras,  and  Xenophanes,  created  in  him  a 
habit  of  scepticism  of  which  he  afterwards  cured  him- 
self. The  result  of  his  meditations  was  committed  to  a 
volume  (Hfpi  (pvattuc),  the  obscurity  of  which  procured 
for  him  the  appellation  of  (tkotsivoc.  He  also  made  it 
his  object  to  discover  an  elemental  principle;  but  either 
because  his  views  were  different,  or  from  a desire  to  op- 
pose himself  to  the  Eleata?,  he  assumed  it  to  hefre,  be- 
cause the  most  subtle  and  active  of  the  elements”  (Ten- 
nemann,  Manual  History  of  Philosophy,  § 102). 

“According  to  Heraclitus,  the  end  of  wisdom  is  to 
discover  the  ground  and  principle  of  all  things.  This 
principle,  which  is  an  eternal,  ever-living  unity,  and  per- 
vades and  is  in  all  phenomena,  he  called^m  By  this 
term  Heraclitus  understood,  not  the  elemental  fire  or 
flame,  which  he  held  to  be  the  excess  of  fire,  but  a warm 
and  dry  vapor;  which  therefore,  as  air,  is  not  distinct 
from  the  soul  or  vital  energy,  and  which,  as  guiding 
and  directing  the  mundane  development,  is  endued  with 
wisdom  and  intelligence.  This  supreme  and  perfect 
force  of  life  is  obviously  without  limit  to  its  activity ; 
consequently,  nothing  that  it  forms  can  remain  fixed; 
all  is  constantly  in  a process  of  formation.  This  he  has 
thus  figuratively  expressed : ‘ No  one  has  ever  been 
twice  on  the  same  stream.’  Nay,  the  passenger  him- 
self is  without  identity:  ‘On  the  same  stream  we  do 
and  we  do  not  embark ; for  we  are  and  we  are  not.’  The 
vitality  of  the  rational  fire  has  in  it  a tendency  to  con- 
traries, whereby  it  is  made  to  pass  from  gratification  to 
want,  and  from  want  to  gratification,  and  in  fixed  peri- 
ods it  alternates  between  a swifter  and  a slower  flux. 
Now  these  opposite  tendencies  meet  together  in  deter- 
minate order,  and  by  the  inequality  or  equality  of  the 
forces  occasion  the  phenomena  of  life  and  death.  The 
quietude  of  death,  however,  is  a mere  semblance  which 
exists  only  for  the  senses  of  man.  For  man  in  his  folly 
forms  a truth  of  his  own,  whereas  it  is  only  the  univer- 
sal reason  that  is  really  cognizant  of  the  truth.  Lastly, 
the  rational  principle  which  governs  the  whole  moral 


HERALD 


191 


HERB 


and  physical  world  is  also  the  law  of  the  individual; 
whatever,  therefore,  is,  is  the  wisest  and  the  best ; and 
‘it  is  not  for  man’s  welfare  that  his  wishes  should  be 
fulfilled ; sickness  makes  health  pleasant,  as  hunger  does 
gratification,  and  labor  rest.’  The  physical  doctrines  of 
Heraclitus  formed  no  inconsiderable  portion  of  the  ec- 
lectical system  of  the  later  Stoics,  and  in  times  still  more 
recent  there  is  much  in  the  theories  of  Schelling  and 
Hegel  that  presents  a striking  though  general  resem- 
blance thereto.”  Hegel  declared  that  the  doctrine  of 
Heraclitus,  that  all  things  arc  “perpetual  flux  and  re- 
flux,” was  an  anticipation  of  his  own  dogma,  “ Being  is 
the  same  with  non-being.”  “ The  fragments  of  Herac- 
litus have  been  collected  from  Plutarch,  iStolmis,  Cle- 
mens of  Alexandria,  and  Sextus  Empiricus,  and  explain- 
ed by  Sclileiermacher  in  Wolf  and  Buttmann’s  Museum 
der  Altherthuinsirissenschcift,  vol.  i”  (English  Cyclopce- 
diu).  Professor  Bernavs,  of  Bonn,  gathered  from  Hip- 
pocrates a series  of  quotations  from  Heraclitus,  and  pub- 
lished them  under  the  title  Jleraclitea  (1848).  The 
Epistles  which  bear  the  name  of  Heraclitus  are  spuri- 
ous; they  are  given,  with  valuable  notes  and  disserta- 
tions, in  Die  Jleraelitiseken  Brief e , ein  Beit  rug  z.  philos. 
u.  relig.  Lit.  (Berl.  18G9).  See  Smith,  Diet,  of  Class.  Biog. 
and  Mythol.  s.  v. ; Lewes,  Hist,  of  Philos.  18(57,  i,  G5  sq. ; 
Lassall'e,  Die  Philosophic  d.  Ilerakleitos  (Berlin,  1858). 

Heraclius.  Sec  Moxotiielite. 

Herald  only  occurs  in  Dan.  iii,  4;  the  term  there  used 
(PH3,  karoz)  is  connected  etymologically  (Gesenius, 
Thesaur.  p.  712)  with  the  Greek  Knpvaeno  and  icpd^io, 
and  with  our  “cry.”  There  is  an  evident  allusion  to  the 
office  of  the  herald  in  the  expressions  Krjpvereru),  Kppvi 
and  Kt'ipvypa,  which  are  frequent  in  the  N.T.,and  which 
are  but  inadequately  rendered  by  “preach,”  etc.  The 
term  “ herald”  might  be  substituted  in  1 Tim.  ii,  7 ; 2 
Tim.  i,  11 ; 2 Pet.  ii,  5,  as  there  is  evidently  in  these 
passages  an  allusion  to  the  Grecian  games  (q.  v.). 

Herb  is  the  rendering  of  the  following  terms  in  the 
Auth.Ters.  of  the  Bible  : usually  25133,  e'seb,  any  green 
plant  or  herbage  collectively,  often  rendered  “grass;” 
applied  generally  to  annual  plants  without  woody  stems, 
growing  in  the  fields  (Gen.  ii,  5;  iii,  18  ; Exod.  ix,  22; 
x,  12,15)  and  on  mountains  (Isa.  xlii,  15;  Prov.  xxvii, 
25),  growing  up  and  setting  seed  (Gen.  i,  11, 12, 29),  and 
serving  as  food  for  man  (Gen.  i,  30 ; iii,  18 ; Psa.  civ,  14) 
and  for  beast  (Dent,  xi,  15;  Psa.  evi,  20;  Jer.  xiv,  G; 
Dan.  iv,  15, 23,32, 33;  v,  21);  comprehending,  therefore, 
vegetables,  greens,  and  sometimes  all  green  herbage  (Amos 
vii,  1,  2).  Men  are  said  to  “ flourish  as  a green  herb ” 
(Psa.  lxxii,  1G;  xcii,  7 ; Job  v,  25);  also  to  wither  (Psa. 
cii,  4, 11).  Hence,  too,  those  seized  with  fear  and  turn- 
ing pale  (Gr.  y\wpo<)  are  compared  to  the  herb  of  the 
field  which  grows  yellow  and  withers  (2  Kings  xix,  2G ; 
Isa.  xxxvii,  27).  p^,  yaretJc',  properly  signifies  green, 

and  is  applied  to  any  green  thing,  verdure,  foliage  of 
fields  and  trees  (2  Kings  xix,  26;  Isa.  xxxvii,  27 ; xv, 
6,  Exod.  x,  15;  Numb,  xxii,  4;  Psa.  xxxvii,  2 ; Gen.  i, 
30;  ix,3);  specially  a plant,  herb  (Deut.  xi,10;  1 Kings 
xxi,  2) ; a portion  of  herbs,  vegetables  (Prov.  xv,  17). 
X'rn,  de’she,  and  “PSH,  ehatsir properly  designate 
grass,  the  first  when  young  and  tender,  the  latter  when 
grown  and  fit  for  mowing.  See  Botany. 

"lix,  or  (lit.  light),  in  the  fern.  m*lSt,  ordh’,  plural 
rVHlJt,  oroth',  “occurs  in  two  passages  of  Scripture, 
where  it  is  translated  herb  in  the  Auth.Ters. : it  is  gen- 
erally supposed  to  indicate  such  plants  as  are  employed 
for  food.  The  most  ancient  translators  seem,  however, 
to  have  been  at  a loss  for  its  meaning.  Thus  the  Sept, 
in  one  passage  (2  Kings  iv,  89)  has  only  the  Heb.  word 
in  Greek  characters,  doiui9,  and  in  the  other  (Isa.  xxvi, 
19)  ’iapa,  heeding.  The  Vulg.,  and  the  Chaldee  and 
Syriac  versions,  translate  oroih  in  the  latter  passage  by 
light,  in  consequence  of  confounding  one  Heb.  word  with 
another,  according  to  Celsius  (Hierobot.  i,  459).  Posen - 
miiller  says  that  oroth  occurs  in  its  original  and  generic 


signification  in  Isa.  xxvi,  1 9,  viz.  green  herbs.  The  fu- 
ture restoration  of  the  Hebrew  people  is  there  announced 
under  the  type  and  figure  of  a revival  of  the  dead, 

‘ Thy  dew  is  ei  dew  of  green  herbs,'  says  the  prophet,  i.  e. 
as  by  the  dew  green  herbs  are  revived,  so  slialt  thou, 
being  revived  by  God’s  strengthening  power,  flourish 
again.  The  other  passage,  however,  appears  an  obscure 
one  with  respect  to  the  meaning  of  oroth.  Celsius  has, 
with  his  usual  learning,  shown  that  mallows  were  much' 
employed  as  food  in  ancient  times.  Of  this  there  can 
be  no  doubt,  but  there  is  no  proof  adduced  that  oreAh 
means  mallows;  there  are  many  other  plants  which 
were  and  still  are  employed  as  articles  of  diet  in  the 
East,  as  purslane,  goosefoot,  chenpodiums,  lettuce,  en- 
dive, etc.  But  oroth  should  be  considered  in  conjunc- 
tion with  pakyoth ; for  we  find  in  2 Kings  iv,  39,  that 
when  Elisha  came  again  to  Gilgal,  and  there  was  a 
dearth  in  the  land,  he  said  unto  his  servant,  ‘Set  on  the 
great  pot,  and  seethe  pottage  for  the  sons  of  the  proph- 
ets; and  one  went  out  into  the  field  to  gather  herbs 
(i oroth ),  and  found  a wild  vine,  and  gathered  thereof 
wild  gourels  (pahyoth)  his  lap  full,  and  came  and  shred 
them  into  the  pot  of  pottage,  for  they  knew  them  not.’ 
As  pakyoth  is  universally  acknowledged  to  be  the  fruit 
of  one  of  the  gourd  tribe,  so  it  is  not  unreasonable  to 
conclude  that  oroth  also  was  the  fruit  of  some  plant,  for 
which  the  pakyoth  had  been  mistaken.  This  may  be 
admitted,  as  nothing  better  than  conjecture  has  been 
adduced  in  support  of  other  interpretations,  and  as  there 
are  fruits,  such  as  that  of  the  egg-plant,  which  are  used 
as  articles  of  diet,  and  for  which  the  fruit  of  the  pakyoth, 
or  wild  gourd,  might  have  been  mistaken  by  an  igno- 
rant person”  (Kit to).  But  perhaps,  as  this  was  a time 
of  great  famine,  the  servant  went  out  to  gather  any 
green  vegetable  likely  to  contribute  towards  the  savori- 
ness and  nutritiousness  of  the  broth,  and  his  mistake 
may  have  arisen  not  so  much  from  any  resemblance  be- 
tween the  pakyoth  and  any  particular  kind  of  oroth  of 
which  he  was  in  quest,  but  rather  from  indiscriminately 
seizing  whatever  vegetable  he  mot  with,  without  know- 
ing its  noxious  properties.  Thus  we  may  regard  oi  oth 
in  both  passages  as  a general  designation  of  esculent 
plants,  in  this  case  wild  ones.  See  Goran. 

The  “bitter  herbs”  (S‘H‘T2,  merorim')  with  which 
the  Israelites  wrere  commanded  to  eat  the  Passover 
bread  (Exod.  ii,  8;  Numb,  ix,  11 : the  same  Heb.  word 
occurs  also  in  Lam.  iii,  15,  “lie  hath  filled  me  with  bit- 
terness, he  hath  made  me  drunken  with  wormwood”) 
doubtless  in  general  “included  the  various  edible  kinds 
of  bitter  plants,  whether  cultivated  or  wild,  which  the 
Israelites  could  with  facility  obtain  in  sufficient  abun- 
dance to  supply  their  number  either  in  Egypt,  where 
the  first  Passover  was  eaten,  or  in  the  deserts  of  the  pe- 
ninsula of  .Sinai,  or  in  Palestine.  The  Mishna  (Pesce- 
chim.  c.  2,  § G)  enumerates  five  kinds  of  bitter  herbs — 
ehazereth,  ’ ulshin , theimcah,  eharchabina,  and  maror — 
which  it  was  lawful  to  eat  either  green  or  dried.  There 
is  great  difficulty  in  identifying  the  plants  wdiich  these 
words  respectively  denote,  but  the  reader  may  see  the 
subject  discussed  bv  Bocliart  ( Ilieroz . i,  691,  ed.  Ilosen- 
miiller)  and  by  Carpzovius  (Apparat.  llist.  Crit.p.  402). 
According  to  the  testimony  of  Forskal,  in  Niebuhr’s 
Preface  to  the  Description  ele  VArabie  (p.  xliv),  the 
modern  Jews  of  Arabia  and  Egypt  eat  lettuce,  or,  ii  this 
is  not  at  hand,  bugloss,  with  the  Paschal  lamb.  The 
Greek  word  Trncpic  is  identified  by  Sprengel  (Hist.  Pei 
Herb,  i,  100)  with  the  Ilelminthia  echioules,  Lin.,  bristly 
helminthia  (ox-tongue),  a plant  belonging  to  the  chic- 
ory group.  The  Pieris  of  botanists  is  a genus  closely 
allied  to  the  Helminthia.  Aben  Esra,  in  Celsius  (Hie- 
rob.  ii,  227),  remarks  that,  according  to  the  observations 
of  a certain  learned  Spaniard,  the  ancient  Egyptians  al- 
ways used  to  place  different  kinds  of  herbs  upon  the 
table,  with  mustard,  and  that  they  dipped  morsels  of 
bread  into  this  salad.  That  the  Jews  derived  this  cus- 
tom of  eating  herbs  with  their  meat  from  the  Egyptians 
is  extremely  probable,  for  it  is  easy  to  see  how',  on  the 


HERBART 


192 


HERBELOT 


one  hand,  the  bitter-herb  salad  should  remind  the  Jews  | 
of  the  bitterness  of  their  bondage  (Exod.  i,  14),  and,  on  ] 
the  other  hand,  how  it  should  also  bring  to  their  remem- 
brance their  merciful  deliverance  from  it.  It  is  curious 
to  observe,  in  connection  with  the  remarks  of  Aben  Es- 
ra,  the  custom,  for  such  it  appears  to  have  been,  of  dip- 
ping a morsel  of  bread  into  the  dish  (to  rpvfiXiov)  which 
prevailed  in  our  Lord’s  time.  May  not  to  rpvj3Xiov  be 
the  salad-dish  of  bitter  herbs,  and  to  ipcnofuov  the  mor- 
sel of  bread  of  which  Aben  Esra  speaks?  The  merorim 
may  well  be  understood  to  denote  various  sorts  of  bitter 
plants,  such  particularly  as  belong  to  the  cruciferce,  as 
some  of  the  bitter  cresses,  or  to  the  chicory  group  of  the 
com  posit  ie,  the  hawkweeds,  and  sow-thistles,  and  wild 
lettuces,  which  grow  abundantly  in  the  peninsula  of  Si- 
nai, in  Palestine,  and  in  Egypt  (Decaisne,  Florida  Si- 
naloa, in  Anna?,  des  Selene.  Xat.  1834;  Strand,  Flor. 
Fullest.  Xo.  445,  etc.)”  (Smith).  See  Bitter  Herbs. 

Herbart,  Johann  Friedrich,  an  eminent  German 
philosopher,  was  born  at  Oldenburg  May  4,  1776.  He 
became  professor  of  philosophy  in  the  University  of 
Gottingen  in  1805,  afterwards  at  Ivbnigsberg  in  1809, 
and  finally  returned  to  Gottingen  in  1833.  He  died 
there,  Aug.  14,  1841.  His  most  important  works  are: 
Kurze  Darstellung  eines  Planes  z.  philosoph.  Vorlesungen 
(Gdtt.  1804) : — De platoniei  systematis  f undamento  (Gott. 
1805) : — Ally,  praktische  Philosophic  (Getting.  1808): — 
Jfauptpimkte  d.  Metaphysik  (Gott.  1808) : — Lehrbuch  z. 
Einleitung  in  d.  Philos.  (Kbnigsb.  1815;  4th  ed.  1841)  : — 
Lehrbuch  d.  Psychologic  (Ivonigsb.  18 1 G ; 3d  ed.  1834)  : — 
Psgchologic  als  Wissenschaft  (Kbnigsb.  1824,  2 parts)  : — 
Ally.  Metaphysik  (Kbnigsb.  1828,  2 parts;  2d  ed.  Ilalle, 
1841): — Gesprdche  ii.  d.  Bose  (Kbnigsb.  1817)  : — Encyk. 
d.  Philosophic  (Kbnigsb.  1831;  2d  ed.  1841):  — Analy- 
tische  Beleuchtung  d.  Naturrechtes  it.  d.  Moral  ((lotting. 
1836) : — Zur  Lehre  von  der  Freiheit  d.  menselil.  Widens 
(Gott.  1836) : — Psychologischc  Untersuchungen  (Gotting. 
1839, 2 vols.).  Herbart’s  philosophical  essays  and  pam- 
phlets were  published  by  Hartenstein  (Lpz.  1841-43,  3 
vols.),  who  also  published  a complete  collection  of  his 
works  ( Sdmmtliche  Werke,  Lpz.  1850-52,  12  vols.). 

Herbart  was  at  first  a Kantian,  but  afterwards,  influ- 
enced by  the  study  of  ancient  Greek  philosophy,  he  cre- 
ated a philosophical  system  of  his  own,  which  is  distin- 
guished by  ingenuity  above  all  the  other  post-lvantian 
systems.  “Although  Herbart  occasionally  professes  to 
be  a follower  of  Kant,  still  he  is  of  opinion  that  Kant's 
Criticism  of  Pure  Reason  is  almost  without  any  objec- 
tive value,  and  that  its  method  must  be  entirely  aban- 
doned if  metaphysics  are  to  be  founded  on  a secure  and 
permanent  basis.  Herbart’s  realistic  tendency  further 
reminds  us  of  the  monades  of  Leibnitz.  Philosophy, 
according  to  Herbart,  has  not,  like  ordinary  sciences, 
any  particular  set  of  subjects  which  are  its  province,  but  I 
it  consists  in  the  manner  and  method  in  which  any  sub- 
ject whatsoever  is  treated.  The  subjects  themselves 
are  supposed  to  be  known,  and  are  called  by  him  4 no-  1 
tions’  (Begriffe),  so  that  philosophy  is  the  methodical  J 
treatment  and  working  out  of  those  4 notions.’  The  dif- 
ferent methods  of  treatment  constitute  the  main  depart- 
ments  of  philosophy.  The  first  of  them  is  logic,  which 
considers  the  nature  and  clearness  of  notions  and  their 
combinations.  But  the  contemplation  of  the  world  and 
of  ourselves  brings  before  us  notions  which  cause  a dis- 
cord in  our  thoughts.  This  circumstance  renders  it  nec- 
essary for  us  to  modify  or  change  those  notions  accord- 
ing to  the  particular  nature  of  each.  By  the  process  of 
modification  or  change  something  new  is  added,  which 
Herbart  calls  the  supplement  or  complement  (Ergiin- 
zung).  Now  the  second  main  department  of  philosophy 
is  metaphysics,  which  Herbart  defines  to  be  the  science 
of  the  supplementary  notions.  The  method  of  discov- 
ering the  supplementary  notions  which  are  necessary  in 
order  to  render  given  facts  which  contain  contradictory 
notions  intelligible,  is,  according  to  him,  the  method  of 
relations,  and  it  is  by  this  method  alone  that  the  other 
notions  of  the  world  and  of  ourselves  can  be  properly 


defined.  Hence  arises  what  he  calls  practical  meta- 
physics, which  is  subdivided  into  psychology,  the  phi- 
losophy of  nature,  and  natural  theology.  A third  class 
of  notions,  lastly,  add  something  to  our  conceptions, 
which  produces  either  pleasure  or  displeasure,  and  the 
science  of  these  notions  is  aesthetics,  which,  when  ap- 
plied to  given  things,  forms  a series  of  theories  of  art, 
which  may  be  termed  practical  sciences.  They  are 
founded  upon  certain  model  notions,  such  as  the  ideas 
of  perfection,  benevolence,  malevolence,  justice,  compen- 
sation, equity,  and  the  like.  In  bis  metaphysics  Her- 
bart points  out  three  problems  containing  contradictions, 
viz.  things  with  several  attributes,  change,  and  our  own 
subjectivity  (das  Ich).  In  order  to  solve  these  contra- 
dictions, and  to  make  the  external  and  internal  world 
agree  and  harmonize  so  as  to  become  conceivable,  he 
assumes  that  the  quantity  of  everything  existing  (des 
Seienden)  is  absolutely  simple.  Things  therefore  whicn 
exist  have  no  attributes  referring  to  space  and  time,  but 
they  stand  in  relation  to  a something,  which  is  the  es- 
sence of  things.  Wherever  this  essence  consists  of  a 
plurality  of  attributes  there  must  also  be  a plurality  oi 
things  or  beings,  and  these  many  simple  things  or  be- 
ings are  the  principles  of  all  things  in  nature,  and  the 
latter,  consequently,  are  nothing  but  aggregates  of  sim- 
ple things.  They  exist  by  themselves  in  space  so  far 
as  it  is  conceived  by  our  intellect,  but  not  in  physical 
space,  which  contains  only  bodies.  We  do  not  know 
the  real  simple  essence  of  things,  but  we  may  acquire  a 
certain  amount  of  knowledge  concerning  internal  and 
external  relations.  When  they  accidentally  meet  in 
space  they  disturb  one  another,  but  at  the  same  time 
strive  to  preserve  themselves;  and  in  this  manner  they 
manifest  themselves  as  powers,  although  they  neither 
are  powers  nor  have  powers.  By  means  of  these  prin- 
ciples Herbart  endeavors  to  reform  the  whole  system  of 
psychology  which  he  found  established  by  his  predeces- 
sors; for,  according  to  him.  the  soul,  too,  is  a simple  be- 
ing, and  as  such  it  is  and  remains  unknown  to  us;  anil 
it  is  neither  a subject  for  speculation  nor  for  experi- 
mental psychology.  It  never  and  nowhere  has  any  plu- 
rality of  attributes,  nor  has  it  any  power  or  faculty  of 
receiving  or  producing  anything;  and  the  various  fac- 
ulties usually  mentioned  by  psychologists,  such  as  im- 
agination, reason,  etc.,  which  sometimes  are  at  war  and 
sometimes  in  concord  with  each  other,  are,  according  to 
Herbart,  mere  fictions  of  philosophers.  In  like  manner 
be  denies  that  it  possesses  certain  forms  of  thought  or 
laws  regulating  onr  desires  and  actions.  The  soul  as  a 
simple  being,  and  in  its  accidental  association  with  oth- 
ers, is  like  the  latter  subject  to  disturbance,  and  exerts 
itself  for  its  own  preservation.  The  latter  point  is  the 
: principal  question  in  Herbart’s  psychology,  and  he  en- 
deavors to  deduce  and  calculate  the  whole  life  of  the 
soul,  with  the  aid  of  mathematics,  from  those  mutual 
disturbances,  checks,  and  from  its  reactions  against 
them.  Hence  he  is  obliged  to  deny  man’s  moral  or 
transcendental  freedom,  although  he  allows  him  a cer- 
tain free  character.  He  maintains  the  immortality  of 
the  soul,  because  the  simple  principles  of  all  things  are 
eternal ; but  he  denies  the  possibility  of  acquiring  any 
knowledge  whatever  of  the  Deity”  (English  Cyclopadia, 
s.  v.).  On  the  whole,  it  may  be  said  that  Herbart  was 
a careful  observer  of  psychological  phenomena ; but  that 
speculation,  in  the  proper  sense,  was  not  congenial  to 
him.  See  also  Thilo,  Pie  1 1 "issenseh a ftlich leit  der  mod. 
specul.  Theologie,  etc.  (Leipsic,  1851,  8vo) ; Tennemann, 
Manual  Hist,  of  Philosophy,  p.  462;  Morell,  History  of 
Modern  Philosophy,  p.  482-489 ; Schwegler,  Epit.  Hist. 
Phil.,  transl.  by  Seelve,  p.  304  sq. ; Hollenberg,  in  Her- 
zog, Real-Encyhlopadie,  xix,  630  sq. 

Herbelot,  Bartholomew  D’  (or  D’iierbelot),  a 
distinguished  French  Orientalist,  was  born  at  Paris  Dec. 
4,  1625.  He  studied  at  the  University  of  his  native 
city,  where  he  acquired  a good  knowledge  of  Hebrew, 
Chaldee,  Syriac,  Arabic,  Persian,  and  Turkish.  He  then 
visited  Italy,  in  order  to  establish  relations  with  the  pco- 


HERBERT 


193 


HERBERT 


pie  of  the  Oriental  countries,  of  which  there  were  a large 
number  at  Genoa,  Leghorn,  and  Venice.  At  Home  he 
became  acquainted  with  Lucas  Holstenius  and  Leo  AI- 
latins,  and  was  highly  esteemed  by  the  cardinals  Bar- 
berini  and  Grimaldi,  as  well  as  by  queen  Christina  of 
Sweden.  On  his  return  to  France  he  received  a pen- 
sion of  1500  francs  from  Fouquet,  and  was  afterwards  ap- 
pointed royal  secretary  and  interpreter  of  Oriental  lan- 
guages at  Paris.  On  a second  journey  to  Italy  in  1666, 
the  grand  duke  of  Tuscany,  Ferdinand  II,  endeavored  to 
persuade  him  to  remain,  and  presented  him  with  a num- 
ber of  Eastern  MSS.,  but  in  vain.  He  returned  to  Par- 
is, where  Colbert  granted  him  again  a pension  of  1500 
francs,  and  Louis  XIV  appointed  him  professor  of  Svriac 
at  the  College  of  F ranee,  after  the  death  of  James  d’Au- 
vergne  in  1G92.  Ilerbelot  died  Dec.  8, 1G95.  He  wrote 
Bibliotheque Orient ale,  ou  dictionnaire  uhiversel  contenant 
tout  ce  qni  fait  eonnaitre  les  peuples  tie  V Orient.  It  was 
published  after  his  death  by  Ant.  Gallant!  (Paris,  1G97, 
fol.;  Maestricht,  177G,  fol. ; supplement,  1781,  etc. ; best 
ed.  Par.  1782, 8vo).  The  title  of  this  work  gives  a good 
idea  of  its  character : it  is  a storehouse  of  whatever 
belongs  to  Oriental  literature.  The  book,  however,  is 
merely  a translation  of  passages,  alphabetically  arranged, 
from  Hadji  Ivhalfah’s  bibliographical  dictionary,  and  of 
some  hundred  and  fifty  MSS.  Herbelot  did  not  take 
the  trouble  to  compare  their  statements  with  those  of 
other  writers,  so  that  it  contains  only  the  views  of  the 
Mohammedans  on  themselves  and  their  neighbors.  Yet 
it  is  a very  useful  work  for  students,  and  being  the  only 
one  of  its  kind,  is  still  highly  considered.  Desessarts  . 
has  given  a popular  abridgment  of  it  (Paris,  1782,  6 | 
vols.  8vo);  it  was  translated  into  German  by  Schultz 
(Halle,  1785-1790, 4 vols.  roy.  8vo).  Herbelot  wrote  also 
a catalogue  of  part  of  the  MSS.  contained  in  the  Pala- 
tine Library  at  Florence,  which  was  translated  from  Ital- 
ian into  Latin,  and  is  to  be  found  in  Schellhorn’s  Amce- 
nitates  Utterance.  See  Cousin,  Eloge  de  D' Ilerbelot  (in 
the  Journal  des  Savants,  Jan. 3d,  1696) ; Perrault,  Hom- 
ines illustres,  ii,  154—158;  Goujet,  Mem.  sur  [e  College  de  1 
France , iii,  155-158  ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  liiog.  Generate,  xxv, 
283.  (J.  X.  P.) 

Hsrbert,  Edward  (Lord  Herbert  of  Cher- 
bury),  a distinguished  English  Deist,  was  born  at  Eyton, 
Shrewsbury,  in  1581  or  1582.  lie  was  educated  at  Ox- 
ford, served  with  great  credit  in  the  war  in  the  Nether- 
lands, and  on  his  return  became  one  of  the  most  accom- 
plished gentlemen  at  the  court  of  James  I,  who  made 
him  a knight  of  the  Bath,  and  sent  him  minister  to 
France  in  1618.  On  a second  mission  to  France  he  pub- 
lished a work  embodying  the  principles  of  deism,  enti- 
tled Tractatus  de  Veritate,  prout  distinguitur  a Revela- 
tione,  etc.  (Paris,  1624, 4to).  In  1631  he  was  made  a peer. 
In  1G45  he  published  a new  edition  of  the  Tractatus, 
adding  to  it  his  De  Religione  Gentilium  (also  published 
separately  at  Amsterdam,  1663,  4to;  and  in  an  English 
translation,  by  Lewis,  The  Ancient  Religion  of  the  Gen- 
tiles, London,  1705,  8vo).  He  died  at  London  Aug.  20, 
1648.  Ilis  Life,  icritten  by  himself,  and  continued  to  his 
death,  was  published  by  Horace  Walpole  (London,  1764; 
new  edition,  with  additions,  London,  1826,  8vo). 

“ Herbert  of  Cherbury  was  the  contemporary  of  Hobbes 
of  ’Malmesbury,  to  whose  principles  of  philosophizing  he 
was  directly  opposed,  notwithstanding  the  striking  coin- 
cidence of  many  of  the  results  at  which  they  respective- 
ly arrived.  He  maintained  the  theory  of  innate  ideas, 
and  made  a certain  instinct  of  the  reason  (rationales  in- 
stinctus)  to  be  the  primary  source  of  all  human  knowl- 
edge. Accordingly  he  did  not,  with  Aristotle  and  the 
Stoics,  compare  the  mind  to  a pure  tablet,  or  to  the  tab- 
ula rasa  of  the  schoolmen,  but  to  a closed  volume  which 
opens  itself  at  the  solicitation  of  outward  nature  acting 
upon  the  senses.  Thus  acted  upon,  the  mind  produces 
out  of  itself  certain  general  or  universal  principles  ( com- 
munes notiones),  by  reference  to  which  all  debatable 
questions  in  theology  and  philosophy  may  be  deter- 
mined, since  upon  these  principles,  at  least,  all  men  are  j 
IV.— N 


unanimous.  Consistently  with  these  views,  he  does  not, 
with  Hobbes,  make  religion  to  be  founded  on  revelation 
or  historical  tradition,  but  upon  an  immediate  conscious- 
ness of  God  and  of  divine  things.  The  religion  of  rea- 
son, therefore,  resting  on  such  grounds,  is,  he  argues,  the 
criterion  of  every  positive  religion  which  claims  a foun- 
dation in  revelation.  No  man  can  appeal  to  revelation 
as  an  immediate  evidence  of  the  reasonableness  of  his 
faith,  except  those  to  whom  that  revelation  has  been 
directly  given ; for  all  others,  the  fact  of  revelation  is  a 
matter  of  mere  tradition  or  testimony.  Even  the  re- 
cipient of  a revelation  may  himself  be  easily  deceived, 
since  he  possesses  no  means  of  convincing  himself  of  the 
reality  or  authenticity  of  his  admitted  revelation.  Her- 
bert made  his  own  religion  of  reason  to  rest  upon  the 
following  grounds:  There  is  a God  whom  man  ought  to 
honor  and  reverence;  a life  of  holiness  is  the  most  ac- 
ceptable worship  that  can  be  offered  him ; sinners  must 
repent  of  their  sins,  and  strive  to  become  better;  and 
after  death  every  one  must  expect  the  rewards  or  pen- 
alties befitting  the  acts  of  this  life.  Lord  Herbert  is  one 
of  the  numerous  instances  on  record  of  the  little  influ- 
ence which  speculative  opinions  exercise  upon  the  con- 
duct of  life.  Maintaining  that  no  revelation  is  credible 
which  is  imparted  to  a portion  only  of  mankind,  he  nev- 
ertheless claims  the  belief  of  his  hearers  when  he  tells 
them  that  his  doubts  as  to  the  publication  of  his  work 
were  removed  by  a direct  manifestation  of  the  divine 
will”  ( English  Cyclopaedia).  He  states  the  phenomena 
of  this  revelation  as  follows:  “Thus  filled  with  doubts.  I 
was,  on  a bright  summer  day,  sitting  in  my  room  ; my 
window  to  the  south  was  open  ; the  sun  shone  brightly; 
not  a breeze  was  stirring.  I took  my  book  On  Truth 
into  my  hand,  threw  myself  on  my  knees,  and  prayed  de- 
voutly in  these  words:  ‘O  thou  one  God,  thou  author 
of  this  light  which  iioav  shines  upon  me,  thou  giver  of  all 
inward  light  which  now  shines  upon  me,  thou  giver  of 
all  inward  light,  I implore  thee,  according  to  thine  infi- 
nite mercy,  to  pardon  my  request,  which  is  greater  than 
a sinner  should  make.  I am  not  sufficiently  convinced 
whether  I may  publish  this  book  or  not.  If  its  publica- 
tion shall  be  for  thy  glory,  I beseech  thee  to  give  me  a 
sign  from  heaven ; if  not,  I will  suppress  it.’  I had 
scarcely  finished  these  words  when  a loud,  and  yet,  at 
the  same  time,  a gentle  sound  came  from  heaven,  not 
like  any  sound  on  earth.  This  comforted  me  in  such  a 
manner,  and  gave  me  such  satisfaction,  that  I consid- 
ered my  prayer  as  having  been  heard.”  His  style  is 
very  obscure,  and  his  writings  have  been  but  little  read, 
in  spite  of  the  talent  and  subtlety  of  thought  which 
they  evince.  He  is  properly  regarded  as  the  founder 
of  the  school  of  English  Deists,  although  he  was  him- 
self a sceptic  of  a very  high  and  pure  sort  rather  than 
an  infidel.  Herbert  did  not  profess,  in  his  writings,  to 
oppose  Christianity, but  held  that  his  “five  articles”  em- 
braced the  substance  of  what  is  taught  in  the  Scrip- 
tures. “ The  ideas  which  his  writings  contributed  to  De- 
istical  speculation  are  two,  viz.  the  examination  of  the 
universal  principles  of  religion,  and  the  appeal  to  an  in- 
ternal illuminating  influence  superior  to  revelation, 4 the 
inward  light,’  as  the  test  of  religious  truth.  This  was 
a phrase  not  uncommon  in  the  17th  century.  It  was 
used  by  the  Puritans  to  mark  the  appeal  to  the  spiritual 
instincts,  the  heaven-taught  feelings;  and, later, by  mys- 
tics, like  the  founder  of  the  Quakers,  to  imply  an  appeal 
; to  an  internal  sense.  But  in  Herbert  it  differs  from 
these  in  being  universal,  not  restricted  to  a few  persons, 
and  in  being  intellectual  rather  than  emotional  or  spirit- 
ual” (Farrar,  Critical  History,  p.  120).  For  an  examina- 
tion and  refutation  of  his  theory  of  religion,  see  Leland, 
Deistical  Writers,  letter  i,  and  Halvburton.  A at.  Relig- 
ion (Works,  1835,  8vo,  p.  253).  See  also  Kortholt.  De 
Tribus  impostoribns  (Herbert,  Hobbes,  Spinoza ; Hamb. 
1701, 4 to) ; Van  Mildort,  Boyle  Lectures,  1838;  Bemusat, 
Revue  des  deux  Mondes,  1854,  p.  692;  Farrar,  Critical 
Hist,  of  Free  Thought , lect.  iv ; Shedd,  Hist,  of  Doctrines, 
bk. ii/ch. iv,  § 2;  'Contemporary  Review,  July,  1869. 


HERBERT 


194 


HERD 


Herbert,  George,  brother  of  Lord  Herbert  of 
Cherbury,  was  born  at  Montgomery  Castle  April  3, 1593. 
He  was  educated  at  Cambridge,  where  he  became  a fel- 
low in  1615.  In  the  year  1619  he  was  made  university 
orator,  and  a letter  of  thanks  which  he  wrote  in  that 
capacity  to  Janies  I excited  the  monarch’s  attention, 
who  declared  him  to  be  the  jewel  of  that  university, 
and  gave  him  a sinecure  of  £120  per  annum.  He  be- 
came intimate  with  Bacon  and  Wotton,  and  had  pros- 
pects of  great  success  in  public  life,  but  the  death  of  his 
friends,  the  duke  of  IMchmond  and  the  marquis  of  Ham- 
ilton, followed  by  that  of  king  James,  frustrated  these 
expectations,  and  Herbert  determined  to  devote  him- 
self to  the  ministry.  He  was  accordingly  ordained,  and 
in  1626  was  made  prebendary  of  Layton,  in  the  diocese 
of  Lincoln.  In  1630  he  became  rector  of  Bemerton, 
near  Salisbury.  A quotidian  ague  soon  destroyed  his 
health,  and  he  died  in  1633.  George  Herbert’s  piety 
was  humble  and  profoiuid.  He  was  zealous  in  his  pas- 
toral duties.;  an  undue  reverence  for  ceremonies,  as  such, 
was  his  chief  failing.  A beautiful  sketch  of  him  is  given 
m Walton’s  Lives  (often  reprinted).  “Men  like  George 
Herbert  are  rare.  It  is  not  his  wide  learning,  nor  his 
refined  taste ; not  his  high  spirit,  nor  his  amiability,  nor 
his  strictness  of  life;  but  the  rare  combination  in  one 
person  of  qualities  so  diversely  beautiful.  He  was  mas- 
ter of  all  learning,  human  and  divine ; yet  his  learning 
is  not  what  strikes  the  reader  most,  it  is  so  thoroughly 
controlled  and  subordinated  by  his  lively  wit  and  prac- 
tical wisdom.  He  was  a man  of  extraordinary  endow- 
ments, both  persona]  and  such  as  belonged  to  his  rank, 
not  lost  in  indolence,  nor  wasted  in  trivialities,  but  all 
combined  and  cultivated  to  the  utmost,  and  then  de- 
voted to  the  highest  purposes”  {Christian  Remembrancer, 
1862,  p.  137).  His  writings  include  The  Temple:  sa- 
cred Poems  and  private  Ejaculations  (Lond.  1633, 12mo ; 
and  many  editions  since,  in  various  forms) : — The  Coun- 
try Parson,  his  Character  and  Rule  of  holy  Life  (many 
editions).  There  are  several  editions  of  his  complete 
works,  such  as,  Works,  Prose  and  1 ’erse,  with  Walton's 
Life  and  Coleridge's  Notes  (London,  1846,  2 vols.  12mo) ; 
llor&s,  with  Sketch  of  his  Life  by  Jerdan  (1853,  small 
8vo ; not  including  all  of  Herbert’s  works);  Works, 
Prose  and  Verse,  edited  by  Willmott  (1854,  8vo) ; Life 
and  Writings  of  G.  Herbert  (Boston,  1851,  12mo).  The 
best  edition  of  his  lTorfe  is  Pickering’s  (Lond.  1850,  2 
vols.).  .See  Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  829;  Middle- 
ton,  Evangelical  Biography,  iii,  48 ; Christian  Examiner, 
vol.  li ; Brit.  Quarterly  Review,  April,  1854,  art.  ii. 

Her'cules  (’HpaicXqe)  is  mentioned  in  2 Mace,  iv, 
19  as  the  Tyrian  god  to  whom  the  Jewish  high-priest 
Jason  sent  a religious  embassy  {Qewpoi),  with  the  offer- 
ing of  300  drachmas  of  silver.  That  this  Tyrian  Her- 
cules (1  lerod.  ii,  44)  is  the  same  as  the  Tyrian  Baal  is 
evident  from  a bilingual  Phoenician  inscription  found  at 
Malta  (described  by  Gesenins,  Monum.  Ling,  rheen.  i,  96), 
in  which  the  Phoenician  words,  “ To  our  Lord,  to  Mel- 
karth,  the  Baal  of  Tyre,”  are  represented  by  the  Greek 
'Hpn/fXii  ’Apxtjyirfi.  Moreover,  Ilcraklcs  and  Astarte 
are  mentioned  together  by  Josephus  {Ant.  viii,5, 3),  just 
in  the  same  manner  as  Baal  and  Ashtoreth  are  in  the 
Old  Testament.  The  further  identity  of  this  Tyrian 
Baal  with  the  Baal  whom  the  idolatrous  Israelites  wor- 
shipped is  evinced  by  the  following  arguments,  as  stated 
chiefly  by  Movers  {Die  Phouicier,  i,  178).  The  worship 
of  Baal,  which  prevailed  in  the  time  of  the  Judges,  was 
put  down  by  Samuel  (1  Sam.  vii.  4),  and  the  effects  of 
that  suppression  appear  to  have  lasted  through  the  next 
few  centuries,  as  Baal  is  not  enumerated  among  the 
idols  of  Solomon  (1  Kings  xi,  5-8 ; 2 Kings  xxiii,  13), 
nor  among  those  worshipped  in  Judah  (2  Kings  xxiii, 
12),  or  in  Samaria,  where  we  only  read  of  the  golden 
calves  of  Jeroboam  (1  Kings  xii,  28;  xv,  26).  That 
worship  of  Baal  which  prevailed  in  the  reign  of  Ahab 
cannot,  therefore,  be  regarded  as  a mere  continuation  or 
revival  of  the  old  Canaanitish  idolatry  (although  there  is 
no  reason  to  doubt  the  essential  identity  of  both  Baals), 


but  was  introduced  directly  from  Phoenicia  by  Ahab « 
marriage  with  the  Sidonian  princess  Jezebel  (1  King* 
xvi,  31).  In  like  manner,  the  establishment  of  thir. 
idolatry  in  Judah  is  ascribed  to  the  marriage  of  the 
king  with  a daughter  of  Jezebel  (comp.  Josephus,  Ant. 
viii,  13,  1 ; ix,  6,  6). 

The  power  of  nature,  which  was  worshipped  under 
the  form  of  the  Tyrian  Hercules,  Melkarth,  Baal,  Ado- 
nis, Moloch,  and  whatever  his  other  names  are,  was  that 
which  originates,  sustains,  and  destroys  life.  These 
functions  of  the  Deity,  according  to  the  Phoenicians, 
were  represented,  although  not  exclusively,  bv  the  sun, 
the  influence  of  which  both  animates  vegetation  by  its 
genial  warmth,  and  scorches  it  up  by  its  fervor  (see  Da- 
vis, Carthage,  p.  276-9). 

Almost  all  that  we  know  of  the  worship  of  the  Tyrian 
Hercules  is  preserved  by  the  classical  writers,  and  re- 
lates chiefly  to  the  Phoenician  colonies,  and  not  to  the 
mother  state.  The  eagle,  the  lion,  and  the  thunny-fish 
were  sacred  to  him,  and  are  often  found  on  Phoenician 
coins.  Pliny  expressly  testifies  that  human  sacrifices 
were  offered  up  every  year  to  the  Carthaginian  Hercules 
{Ilist.  Nat.  xxxvi,  v,  12),  which  coincides  with  what  is 
stated  of  Baal  in  Jer.  xix,  5,  and  with  the  acknowledged 
worship  of  Moloch.  Mention  is  made  of  public  embas- 
sies sent  from  the  colonies  to  the  mother  state  to  honor 
the  national  god  (Arrian,  Alex,  ii,  24;  Q.  Curt,  iv,  2; 
Polyb.  xxxi,  20),  and  this  fact  places  in  a clearer  light 
the  offence  of  Jason  in  sending  envoys  to  his  festival 
(2  Macc.  iv,  19). 

Movers  endeavors  to  show  that  Herakles  and  Her- 
cules are  not  merely  Greek  and  Latin  synonymes  for 
this  god,  but  that  they  are  actually  derived  from  his 
true  Phoenician  name.  This  original  name  he  supposes 
to  have  consisted  of  the  syllables  “X  (as  found  in  "HX, 
lion,  and  in  other  words),  meaning  strong,  and  b-,  from 
to  conquer;  so  that  the  compound  means  A r con- 
quers. This  harmonizes  with  what  he  conceives  to  be 
the  idea  represented  by  Hercules  as  the  destroyer  of 
Typhonie  monsters  (l.  c.  p.  430).  Melkarth,  the  MtAi- 
icapOog  of  Sanehoniathon,  occurs  on  coins  only  in  the 
form  rHpb’S.  AVe  must  in  this  case  assume  that  a 
kaph  has  been  absorbed,  and  resolve  the  word  into 
Xrnp,  king  of  the  city,  7roAtm~yof;.  The  bilingual  in- 
scription renders  it  by  ’Apxiiyirtjg ; and  it  is  a title  of 
the  god  as  the  patron  of  the  city. — Ivitto,  s.  v.  See  Baal. 

Herd  (prop.  ^tp3,  of  neat  cattle;  “'ip,  a flock  of 
smaller  animals;  «i: p "3,  as  property ; ayiArj,  a drove). 
The  herd  was  greatly  regarded  both  in  the  patriarchal 
and  Mosaic  period.  Its  multiplying  was  considered  as  a 
blessing,  and  its  decrease  as  a curse  (Gen.  xiii,  2;  Deut. 
vii,  14;  xxviii,  4;  l’sa.  evii,  38;  exhv,  14;  Jer.  li,  23). 
The  ox  was  the  most  precious  stock  next  to  horse  and 
mule,  and  (since  those  were  rare)  the  thing  of  greatest 
value  which  was  commonly  possessed  (1  Kings  xviii, 
5).  Hence  we  see  the  force  of  Saul’s  threat  (1  Sam.  xi,  7). 
The  herd  yielded  the  most  esteemed  sacrifice  (Numb, 
vii,  3 ; Psa.  lxix,  31 ; Isa.  lxvi,  3) ; also  flesh-meat  and 
milk,  chiefly  converted,  probably,  into  butter  and  cheese 
(Deut.  xxxii,  14;  2 Sam.  xvii,  29),  which  such  milk 
yields  more  copiously  than  that  of  small  cattle  (Arist. 
Hist.  Anim.  iii,  20).  The  full-grown  ox  is  hardly  ever 
slaughtered  in  Syria;  but,  both  for  sacrificial  and  con- 
vivial purposes,  the  young  animal  was  preferred  (Exod. 
xxix,  1) — perhaps  three  years  might  be  the  age  up  to 
which  it  was  so  regarded  (Gen.  xv,  9) — and  is  spoken 
of  as  a special  dainty  (Gen.  xviii,  8;  Amos  vi,  4;  Luke 
xv,  23).  The  case  of  Gideon’s  sacrifice  w'as  one  of  exi- 
gency (Judg.vi,  25),  and  exceptional.  So  that  of  the 
people  (1  Sam.  xiv,  32)  was  an  act  of  wanton  excess. 
The  agricultural  and  general  usefulness  of  the  ox  in 
ploughing,  threshing,  and  as  a beast  of  burden  (1  Chron. 
xii,  40;  Isa,  xlvi,  1),  made  such  a slaughtering  seem 
wasteful ; nor,  owing  to  difficulties  of  grazing,  fattening, 
etc.,  is  beef  the  product  of  an  Eastern  climate.  The 


HERD 


195 


HERDER 


animal  was  broken  to  service  probably  in  his  third  year 
(Isa.  xv,  5;  Jer.  xlviii,  34;  comp.  Pliny,  If.  Ar„  viii,  70, 
ed.  Par.).  In  the  moist  season,  when  grass  abounded  in 
the  waste  lands,  especially  in  the  “south”  region,  herds 
grazed  there ; e.  g.  in  Carmel,  on  the  west  side  of  the 
Dead  Sea  (1  Sam.  xxv,  2;  2 Cliron.  xxvi,  10).  Dothan 
also,  Mishor,  and  Sharon  (Gen.  xxxvii,  17 ; comp.  Bob- 
inson,  iii,  122;  Stanley,  S.  and  Pal.  p.  247,  2G0,  484;  1 
Chron.  xxvii,  29;  Isa.  lxv,  10)  were  favorite  pastures. 
For  such  purposes  Uzziah  built  towers  in  the  wilderness 
(2  Chron.  xxvi,  19).  Not  only  grass,  but  foliage,  is  ac- 
ceptable to  the  ox,  ami  the  woods  and  hills  of  Bashan 
and  Gilead  afforded  both  abundantly;  on  such  upland 
(Psa.l,  10;  lxv,  12)  pastures  cattle  might  graze,  as  also, 
of  course,  by  river  sides,  when  driven  by  the  heat  from 
the  regions  of  the  “wilderness.”  Especially  was  the 
eastern  table-land  (Ezek.  xxxix,  18 ; Numb,  xxxii,  4) 
“a  place  for  cattle,”  and  the  pastoral  tribes  of  Reuben, 
Gad,  and  half  Manasseh,  who  settled  there,  retained 
something  of  the  nomadic  character  and  handed  down 
some  image  of  the  patriarchal  life  (Stanley,  S.  and  Pal. 
p.  324,  325).  Herdsmen  in  Egypt  were  a low,  perhaps 
the  lowest,  caste;  hence,  as  Joseph’s  kindred,  through 
his  position,  were  brought  into  contact  with  the  highest 


castes,  they  are  described  as  “ an  abomination ;”  but  of 
the  abundance  of  cattle  in  Egypt,  and  of  the  care  there 
bestowed  on  them,  there  is  no  doubt  (Gen.  xlvii,  6,  17; 
Exod.  ix,  4,  20).  Brands  were  used  to  distinguish  the 
owners’  herds  (Wilkinson,  iii,  8,  195;  iv,  125-131).  So 
the  plague  of  hail  was  sent  to  smite  especially  the  cattle 
(Psa.  1 xx viii,  48),  the  firstborn  of  which  also  were  smit- 
ten (Exod.  xii,  29).  The  Israelites  departing  stipulated 
for  ( Exod.  x,  26)  and  took  “ much  cattle”  with  them 
(xii,  38).  See  Exode.  Cattle  formed  thus  one  of  the 
traditions  of  the  Israclitish  nation  in  its  greatest  period, 
and  became  almost  a part  of  that  greatness.  They  are 
the  subject  of  providential  care  and  legislative  ordinance 
(Exod.  xx,  10;  xxi,  28;  xxxiv,  19;  Lev.  xix,  19;  xxv, 
7 ; Deut.  xi,  15 ; xxii,  1, 4, 10 ; xxv,  4 ; Psa.  civ,  14 ; Isa. 
xxx,  23;  Jon.  iv,  11),  and  even  the  Levites,  though  not 
holding  land,  were  allowed  cattle  (Numb,  xxxv,  2,  3). 
When  pasture  failed,  a mixture  of  various  grains  (called, 
Job  vi,  5,  b^ba,  rendered  “fodder”  in  the  A.  V.,  and,  Isa. 
xxx,  24,  “provender;”  compare  the  Roman  farrago  and 
ocymum,  Pliny,  xviii,  10  and  42)  was  used,  as  also  *}3P1, 
“ chopped  straw”  (Gen.  xxiv,  25 ; Isa.  xi,  7 ; lxv,  25), 
which  was  tom  in  pieces  by  the  threshing-machine,  and 
used  probably  for  feeding  in  stalls.  These  last  formed 
an  important  adjunct  to  cattle-keeping,  being  indispen- 
sable for  shelter  at  certain  seasons  (Exod.  ix,  6,  19). 
The  herd,  after  its  harvest  duty  was  done,  which  prob- 
ably caused  it  to  be  in  high  condition,  was  especially 
worth  caring  for;  at  the  same  time,  most  open  pas- 
tures would  have  failed  because  of  the  heat.  It  was 
then  probably  stalled,  and  would  continue  so  until  vege- 
tation returned.  Hence  the  failure  of  “the  herd”  from 
“ the  stalls”  is  mentioned  as  a feature  of  scarcity  (Hab. 
iii,  17).  “ Calves  of  the  stall”  (Mai.  iv,  2 ; Prov.  xv,  17) 

are  the  objects  of  watchful  care.  The  Reubenites,  etc., 
bestowed  their  cattle  “ in  cities”  when  they  passed  the 


Jordan  to  share  the  toils  of  conquest  (Dent,  iii,  19),  i.  c. 
probably  in  some  pastures  closely  adjoining,  like  the 
“suburbs”  appointed  for  the  cattle  of  the  Levites  (Numb, 
xxxv,  2,  3 ; Josh,  xxi,  2).  Cattle  were  ordinarily  al- 
lowed as  a prey  in  war  to  the  captor  (Deut.  xx,  14; 
Josh,  viii,  2),  and  the  case  of  Amalck  is  exceptional, 
probably  to  mark  the  extreme  curse  to  which  that  peo- 
ple was  devoted  (Exod.  xvii,  14 ; 1 Sam.  xv,  3).  The 
occupation  of  herdsman  was  honorable  in  early  times 
(Gen.  xlvii,  6 ; 1 Sam.  xi,  5 ; 1 Chron.  xxvii,  29 ; xxviii, 
1).  Said  himself  resumed  it  in  the  interval  of  his  cares 
as  king ; also  Doeg  was  certainly  high  in  his  confidence 
(1  Sam.  xxi,  7).  Pharaoh  made  some  of  Joseph’s  breth- 
ren “ rulers  over  his  cattle.”  David’s  herd-masters  were 
among  his  chief  officers  of  state.  In  Solomon’s  time  the 
relative  importance  of  the  pursuit  declined  as  commerce 
grew,  but  it  was  still  extensive  (Eccles.  ii,  7 ; 1 Kings  iv, 
23).  It  must  have  greatly  suffered  from  the  inroads  of 
the  enemies  to  which  the  country  under  the  later  kings 
of  Judah  and  Israel  was  exposed.  Uzziah,  however  (2 
Chron.  xxvi,  10),  and  Ilezekiah  (xxxii,  28,  29),  resum- 
ing command  of  the  open  country,  revived  it.  Josiah 
also  seems  to  have  been  rich  in  herds  (xxxv,  7-9).  The 
prophet  Amos  at  first  followed  this  occupation  (Amos  i, 
1 ; vii,  14).  A goad  was  used  (Judg.  iii,  31 ; 1 Sam. 
xiii,  21,  Tab^  j33'n),  being,  as  mostly,  a staff 
armed  with  a spike.  For  the  word  Herd  as  ap- 
plied to  swine,  sec  Swine.  On  the  general  subject, 
Ugolini,  xxxix,  De  Re  Rust.  vett.  ffebr.  c.  ii,  will  be 
found  nearly  exhaustive. — Smith.  See  Cattle. 

Herder,  Johann  Gottfried  von,  one  of  the 
most  variously  gifted  of  German  writers,  was  born 
August  25,  1744,  at  Mohrungen,  in  East  Prussia, 
where  his  father  kept  a little  girls’-school.  His 
early  training  was  strict  and  religious.  A preach- 
er named  Trescho  taught  him  Greek  and  Latin; 
and  the  pastor’s  books  of  theology  were  devoured 
by  the  young  student.  A complaint  in  the  eyes 
brought  him  under  the  notice  of  a Russian  sur- 
geon, who  offered  to  instruct  him  in  surgery  gra- 
tis. Herder  accepted  the  offer,  but  at  Konigsberg 
fainted  at  the  first  dissection  which  he  attended,  and 
thereupon  resolved  to  study  theology.  He  gained  the 
acquaintance  of  persons  who  appreciated  him,  and  pro- 
cured him  a place  as  instructor  in  the  Frederick’s  Col- 
lege at  Konigsberg.  Here  he  became  intimate  with 
Kant  and  Hamann,  who  greatly  influenced  the  develop- 
ment of  his  mind.  With  the  most  indefatigable  indus- 
try he  studied  philosophy,  natural  science,  history,  and 
languages,  and  in  1764  became  assistant  at  the  cathe- 
dral school  at  Riga,  to  which  office  that  also  of  preacher 
was  attached.  Here  he  laid  the  foundations  of  his  great 
celebrity  as  a pulpit  orator.  Some  literary  disputes  dis- 
gusted him,  and  he  went  to  France,  and  was  there  cho- 
sen by  the  prince  of  Holstein-Oldenburg  as  his  travel- 
ling companion.  He  would  have  gone  from  France  to 
Italy  had  he  not  been  arrested  by  the  complaint  in  his 
eyes  at  Strasbourg,  where  he  first  became  acquainted 
with  Gothe.  In  1776  he  was  called  to  Weimar  as  court 
preacher,  and  in  that  little  capital,  then  celebrated  as 
the  Athens  of  Germany,  he  spent  the  remainder  of  his 
life,  respected  as  a preacher  and  as  an  active  promoter 
of  education  and  other  public  improvements,  and  labor- 
ing unweariedly  in  his  multifarious  literary  pursuits. 
He  died  Dec.  18, 1803.  Herder’s  literary  activity  was 
enormous.  There  is  hardly  a field  of  literature  which 
he  left  unexplored.  His  collected  writings  amount  to 
sixty  volumes  ( Sammtliche  Werke,  Stuttgardt,  1827-30, 
60  vols.  18mo;  also  45  vols.  8vo,  edited  by  Ileyne  and 
Muller,  Tubingen,  1805-1820).  They  may  be  divided 
into  four  classes — History,  Belles-Lettres,  Philosophy, 
and  Theology.  In  philosophy,  Herder  was  rather  an 
observer  than  a metaphysician.  His  reputation  in  that 
field  rests  chiefly  on  his ‘ideen  zur  Geschichte  der  Mensch- 
heif( 4th  ed.Leips.  1841,  2 vols.),  translated  into  English 
by  Churchill,  under  the  title  Outlines  of  a Philosophy  of 
the  History  of  Man  (2d  edit.  London,  1803,  2 vols.  8vo). 


HERDER 


196 


HERDMAN 


As  a theologian,  Herder  is  noted  not  for  seienee  or  sys- 
tem so  much  as  for  liis  freedom  of  thought  and  his  ge- 
nial spirit.  In  some  respects  he  was  the  precursor  of 
Schleiermaeher,  and  his  rationalism,  though  low  enough, 
was  of  a totally  different  school  from  that  of  Sender, 
Paulus,  and  the  neologists  generally.  He  sought  es- 
pecially to  render  Biblical  studies  more  profitable  by 
making  them  more  free,  and  by  investing  them  with  a 
human  and  scientific  interest.  In  his  work  on  the  Geist 
der  ebraischen  Poesie  (1782 ; translated  by  Dr.  Marsh,  of 
Vermont,  under  the  title  Spirit  of  Hebrew  Poetry , 183S, 
2 vols.  12mo),  he  dwelt  especially  on  the  ajsthetical  and 
human  side  of  the  Bible,  which,  in  his  view,  instead 
of  weakening  its  claims  to  divine  authority,  greatly 
strengthens  them.  He  was  the  first  to  show  critically 
the  poetical  beauties  of  the  Bible,  which  he  did  not  con- 
sider as  mere  ornaments,  but  rather  as  being  grounded 
in  the  inner  nature  of  the  revelation,  and  not  to  be  sep- 
arated from  a eorreet  view  of  the  inspiration  of  the  con- 
tents of  the  O.  T.  Though  others,  Lowth  for  instance, 
had  already  treated  this  subject  of  the  poetry  of  the  He* 
brews,  none  had  seen  so  deeply  into  its  nature,  or  shown 
so  plainly  the  true  spirit  which  pervaded  it.  By  this 
poetical  consideration  of  the  O.  T.  history,  and  of  the  se- 
ries of  religious  precepts  based  on  this  history,  he  rid 
the  Bible  from  the  mistakes  of  such  interpreters  as  Mi- 
chaelis  and  others.  His  diteste  Urkunde  d.  Menschenge- 
schlechts,  eine  nach  Jahrliunderten  enthullte  heilige  Schrift, 
which  appeared  in  1774,  revolutionized  the  system  of  O.- 
T.  exegesis  by  attempting  to  treat  the  history  of  crea- 
tion (Gen.  i)  from  a different  stand-point  from  the  one 
which  generally  prevailed.  In  his  Erlaiiterungen  z.  N. 
T.  aus  einer  neu  erojjneten  morgenldndischen  Quelle  (the 
Zend  Avesta),  which  he  published  in  1775,  he  also  en- 
deavored to  render  the  exegesis  of  the  N.  T.  more  ac- 
curate and  profound,  by  showing  the  influence  of  Par- 
seeism  on  the  Hebrew  and,  incidentally,  on  the  Chris- 
tian mode  of  thought.  He  worked  especially  on  the 
books  of  James  and  Jnde,  under  the  title  of  Briefe  zweier 
Brikler  Jesu  in  nnserm  Kcinon  (1775),  and  on  the  Apoca- 
lypse in  Das  Buck  v.  der  Zuhtnji  des  llerrn  (Riga,  1779). 
In  the  former  work  he  considers  James  and  Jude  as  the 
real  brothers  of  the  Lord  according  to  the  flesh,  while 
iu  the  second  he  maintains  that  the  predictions  of  the 
Apocalypse  were  fulfilled  at  the  destruction  of  Jeru- 
salem. Herder  also  wrote  on  various  points  of  the  his- 
tory of  the  New-Testament  revelation  and  of  Bibli- 
cal dogmatics,  especially  iii  his  Christliclie  Schrifen. 
In  these  he  treats  of  the  gift  of  tongues  on  the  first 
Christian  Pentecost ; of  the  resurrection  as  a point  of 
faith,  history,  and  dogma;  of  the  Redeemer  as  pre- 
sented in  the  three  gospels;  of  the  Son  of  God,  the 
Saviour  of  the  world;  of  the  spirit  of  Christianity;  of 
religion,  doctrinal  meanings,  usages,  etc.  “One  of  the 
chief  services  of  Herder  to  Christianity  was  his  persist- 
ent labor  to  elevate  the  pastoral  office  to  its  original  and 
proper  dignity.  He  held  that  the  pastor  of  the  ehurch 
should  not  be  solely  a learned  critic,  but  the  minister  of 
the  common  people.  In  his  day  the  pastor  was  consid- 
ered the  mere  instrument  of  the  state,  a sort  of  theolog- 
ical policeman — a degradation  which  Herder  eould  hard- 
ly permit  himself  to  think  of  without  violent  indigna- 
tion. In  his  Letters  on  the  Study  of  Theology , published 
in  1780,  and  in  subsequent  smaller  works,  he  sought  to 
evoke  a generation  of  theologians,  who,  being  imbued 
with  his  own  ideas  of  humanity,  would  betake  them- 
selves to  the  edification  of  the  humble  mind.  He  would 
eject  scholasticism  from  the  study  of  the  Bible,  and  show 
to  his  readers  that  simplicity  of  inquiry  is  the  safest 
way  to  happy  results.  He  would  place  the  modem  pas- 
tor, both  in  liis  relations  to  the  cause  of  humanity  and 
in  the  respect  awarded  him  by  the  world,  close  beside 
the  patriarch  and  prophet  of  other  days;  and  that  man, 
in  his  opinion,  was  not  worthy  the  name  of  pastor  who 
eould  neglect  the  individual  requirements  of  the  soul. 
According  to  Herder,  the  theologian  should  be  trained 
from  childhood  in  the  knowledge  of  the  Bible  and  of 


practical  religion.  Youth  should  have  ever  before  them 
the  example  of  pious  parents,  who  were  bringing  them 
up  with  a profound  conviction  of  the  doctrines  of  divine 
truth.  To  choose  theology  for  a profession  from  mer- 
cenary aims  would  preclude  all  possibility  of  pastoral 
usefulness.  ‘ Let  prayer  and  reading  the  Bible  be  your 
morning  and  evening  food,’  was  his  advice  to  a young 
preacher.  Some  of  the  most  eloquent  words  from  his 
pen  were  written  against  the  customary  moral  preach- 
ing which  so  much  afflicted  him.  ‘ Why  don’t  you  come 
down  from  your  pulpits,’  he  asks,  ‘for  they  cannot  be  of 
any  advantage  to  you  in  preaching  such  things  ? What 
is  the  use  of  all  these  Gothic  churches,  altars,  and  such 
matters  ? No,  indeed ! Religion,  true  religion,  must  re- 
turn to  the  exercise  of  its  original  functions,  or  a preach- 
er will  become  the  most  indefinite,  idle,  and  indifferent 
thing  on  earth.  Teachers  of  religion,  true  servants  of 
God’s  word, what  have  you  to  do  in  our  century?  The 
harvest  is  plenteous,  but  the  laborers  are  few ; pray  the 
Lord  of  the  harvest  that  he  will  send  out  laborers  who 
will  be  something  more  than  bare  teaehers  of  wisdom 
and  virtue.  More  than  this,  help  yourselves !’  The 
counsel  given  by  Herder  to  others  was  practised  first  by 
himself.  He  lived  among  critical  minds,  who  spumed 
humble  pastoral  work,  but  he  felt  it  his  duty,  and  there- 
fore discharged  it  to  the  best  of  his  ability.  His  preach- 
ing was  richly  lueid,  and  not  directed  to  the  most  intel- 
ligent portion  of  his  auditors.  He  took  up  a plain  truth 
and  strove  to  make  it  plainer.  Yet,  while  the  masses 
were  most  benefited  by  his  simplicity  of  pulpit  conver- 
sation, those  gifted  men  who  thought  with  him  arose 
from  their  seats  profoundly  impressed  with  the  dignity 
and  value  of  the  Gospel.  A witty  writer  of  the  time, 
Sturz,  gives  an  account  of  Herder’s  preaching  that 
throws  some  light  upon  the  manner  in  which  the  plain, 
earnest  exposition  of  God’s  word  always  affected  the  in- 
different auditor.  ‘ You  should  have  seen,’  says  this  man, 
1 how  every  rustling  sound  was  hushed  and  each  curious 
glance  was  chained  upon  him  in  a very  few  minutes. 
We  were  as  still  as  a Moravian  congregation.  All  hearts 
opened  themselves  spontaneously ; every  eye  hung  upon 
him  and  wept  unwonted  tears ; deep  sighs  escaped  from 
every  breast.  . My  dear  friend,  nobody  preaches  like 
him’  ” (Hurst,  History  of  Rationalism , eh.  vii).  See  Her- 
zog, Real-EncyHop.  v,  747  : Erinnerungen  aus  d.  Leben 
Herder’s  (Tubingen,  1820,  8vo) ; Quinet,  Id  ten  z.  Gesch. 
(Par.  1834) ; E.  G.  Herder,  Herder's  Cluiracterbild  (Er- 
lang. 184G,  G vols.);  article  by  Bancroft,  North  Amer- 
ican Review,  July,  1836,  p.  216  ; Menzel , German  Liter- 
ature (American  translation,  ii,  419)  ; review  of  Marsh’s 
translation,  Christian  Examiner,  xviii,  1G7 ; Hagenbaeh, 
History  of  the  Church  in  the  18 th  and  19 th  Centuries, 
translated  by  Hurst,  vol.  ii,  lectures  i-v. 

Herdman  (prop.  “£‘£,  a tender  of  oxen;  in  dis- 
tinction from  !"i2Y%  a feeder  of  sheep;  but  practically 
the  two  occupations  were  generally  united).  From  the 
earliest  times  the  Hebrews  were  a pastoral  people. 
Abraham  and  his  sons  were  masters  of  herds  and  flocks, 
and  were  regulated  in  their  movements  very  much  by  a 
regard  to  the  necessities  of  their  eattle,  iu  which  their 
wealth  almost  entirely  consisted.  In  Egypt  the  Israel- 
ites were  known  as  keepers  of  cattle.  When  they  left 
Egypt,  they,  notwithstanding  the  oppressions  to  which 
they  had  been  subjected,  took  with  them  “ flocks  and 
herds”  (Exod.  xii,  38) ; and  though  during  their  wan- 
derings in  the  wilderness  their  stock  was  in  all  probabil- 
ity greatly  reduced,  before  they  entered  Canaan  they 
had  so  replenished  it  by  their  conquests  in  the  pastoral 
regions  beyond  Jordan  that  they  took  with  them  a 
goodly  number  of  animals  wherewith  to  begin  their  new 
life  in  the  land  that  had  been  promised  them.  Of  that 
land  large  tracts  were  suited  for  pasturage;  .certain  of 
the  tribes  were  almost  exclusively  devoted  to  pastoral 
occupations;  and  traees  of  a nomadic  life  among  other 
tribes  than  those  settled  on  the  east  of  the  Jordan  are 
found  even  as  late  as  the  time  of  the  monarchy  (compare 
1 Chron.  iv,  38-43). 


HERDMAN 


197 


HERDMAN 


The  pastoral  life  has  alwa}rs  had  a charm  for  the 
Shemitic  peoples ; and  among  them,  as  well  as  among 
other  nations,  it  has  always  been  held  in  honor.  In  the 
open  and  spacious  fields  bordering  on  the  Jordan  and  in 
the  hill  country  of  Palestine  it  is  a life  of  comparative 
ease  and  of  great  independence  even  in  the  present  day; 
men  possessed  of  flocks  and  herds  become  quietly  and 
gradually  rich  without  any  severe  exertion  or  anxiety; 
and  but  for  feuds  among  themselves,  the  oppression  of  : 
superiors,  and  the  predatory  tendency  of  their  less  re- 
spectable neighbors,  their  life  might  flow  on  in  an  al-  j 
most  unbroken  tranquillity.  The  wealth  of  sheiks  and 
emirs  is  measured  chiefly  by  the  number  of  their  flocks 
and  herds ; and  men  who  would  count  it  an  intolerable 
indignity  to  be  constrained  to  engage  in  any  handicraft 
occupation,  or  even  in  mercantile  adventure,  fulfil  with 
pride  and  satisfaction  the  duties  which  their  pastoral 
life  imposes  upon  them.  It  was  the  same  in  ancient 
times.  Job’s  substance  consisted  chiefly  of  cattle,  his  , 
wealth  in  which  made  him  the  greatest  of  all  the  men 
of  the  East  (i,  3).  The  first  two  kings  of  Israel,  Saul 
and  David,  came  from  “ following  the  herd”  to  ascend 
the  throne  (1  Sam.  ix;  xi,  5;  Psa.  lxxviii,  70).  Men 
“ very  great,”  like  Nabal,  derived  their  riches  from  their 
flocks,  and  themselves  superintended  the  operations  con- 
nected with  the  care  of  them  (1  Sam.  xxv,  2 sq.).  Ab- 
salom, the  prince  of  Israel,  had  a sheep-farm,  and  per- 
sonally occupied  himself  with  its  duties  (2  Sam.  xiii,  23). 
Mcsha,  king  of  Moab,  was  “ a slicepmaster”  (1p“l3,  2 
Kings  iii,4).  The  daughters  of  chiefs  and  wealthy  pro- 
prietors did  not  think  it  beneath  them  to  tend  the  flocks 
and  herds  of  their  family  (Gen.  xxix,  9 [comp,  xxiv,  15, 
19] ; Exod.  ii,  16;  comp.  Homer,  11.  vi,  423;  OJys . xii, 
121 ; xiii,  221 ; Varro,  l)e  Re  Rust,  ii,  1).  The  proudest 
title  of  the  kings  of  Israel  was  that  of  shepherds  of  the 
people  (Jer.  xxiii,  4 ; Ezek.  xxxiv,  2,  etc. ; comp.  7roi/d- 
vtQ  \qwv  in  Homer  and  Hesiod,  passim,  and  Plato,  De 
Rep.  iv,  15,  p.  440,  D.),  and  God  himself  condescended 
to  be  addressed  as  the  Shepherd  of  Israel  (Psa.lxxx,  1), 
and  was  trusted  in  by  bis  pious  servants  as  their  shep- 
herd (Psa.  xxiii,  1).  In  later  times  the  title  of  shep- 
herd was  given  to  the  teachers  and  leaders  of  the  syna- 
gogues, who  were  called  Q“D3^S  (Lightfoot,  Ilor.  Ileb. 
in  Matt,  it,  23)  ; but  this  was  unknown  to  the  times  be- 
fore Christ. 

By  the  wealthier  proprietors  their  flocks  and  herds 
were  placed  under  the  charge  of  servants,  who  bore  the 
designation  of  lip,  •jitS  ".jp,  i3n,  “'2  ill,  or 


I These  were  sometimes  armed  with  weapons, 

I to  protect  themselves  and  their  charge  from  robbers  or 
wild  beasts;  though,  if  we  may  judge  from  the  case  of 
| David,  their  furniture  in  this  respect  was  of  the  simplest 
I description.  Usually  they  carried  with  them  a stall 
| (bp^2  furnished  with  a crook,  which  might  be 

j used  for  catching  an  animal  by  the  foot;  those  who  had 
the  charge  of  oxen  carried  with  them  a sharper  instru- 
. ment  (Judg.iii,31 ; 1 Sam.  xiii,  21).  See  Goad.  They 
had  also  a wallet  or  small  bag  (-'pi?*,  jrijpct)  in  which 
to  carry  provisions,  ammunition,  or  any  easily  portable 
article  (1  Sam.  xvii,  40, 43 ; Psa.  xxiii,  4;  Mieah  vii,  14; 
Matt,  x,  10;  Luke  ix,  3,  10).  Their  dress  consisted 
principally  of  a cloak  or  mantle  (the  humus  of  the 
modern  Arabs)  in  which  they  could  wrap  the  entire 
body  (Jer.  xliii,  12).  For  food  they  were  obliged  to  be 
contented  with  the  plainest  fare,  and  often  were  reduced 
to  the  last  extremities  (Amos  vii,  14;  Luke  xv,  15). 
Their  wages  consisted  of  a portion  of  the  produce,  espe- 
cially of  the  milk  of  the  flock  (Gen.  xxx,  32  sq.;  1 Cor. 
ix,  7).  That  they  cultivated  music  is  not  unlikely, 
though  it  hardly  follows  from  1 Sam.  xvi,  18,  fur  Da- 
vid’s case  may  have  been  exceptional ; in  all  countries 
and  times,  however,  music  has  been  associated  with  the 
pastoral  life.  'When  the  servants  belonging  to  one  mas- 
ter existed  in  any  number,  they  were  placed  under  a 
chief  (i"!3p?3  “V.T,  Gen.  xlvii,  6;  cip\nroipi]v,  1 Pet.  v, 
4) ; and  under  the  monarchy  there  was  a royal  officer 
who  bore  the  title  of  u^’-in  T2X,  “ chief  of  the  herds- 
men” (1  Sam.  xxi,  7 ; compare  1 Chron.  xxvii,  29,  and 
“magister  regii  pecoris,”  Livy,  i,  4). 

The  animals  placed  under  the  care  of  these  herdsmen 
were  chiefly  sheep  and  goats;  but  besides  these  there 
were  also  neat  cattle,  asses,  camels,  and  in  later  times 
swine.  It  would  seem  that  the  keeping  of  the  animals 
last  named  was  the  lowest  grade  in  the  pastoral  life 
(Luke  xv,  15) ; and  probably  the  keeping  of  sheep  and 
goats  was  held  to  be  the  highest,  as  that  of  horses  is 
among  the  Arabs  in  the  present  day  (Niebuhr,  Arabic, 
i,  226).  The  herdsman  led  his  charge  into  the  open 
pasture-land,  where  they  coidd  freely  roam  and  find 
abundant  supply  of  food ; the  neat  cattle  were  conducted 
to  the  richer  pastures,  such  as  those  of  Ilashan,  while 
the  sheep,  goats,  and  camels  found  sufficient  sustenance 
from  the  scantier  herbage  of  the  more  rocky  and  arid 
parts  of  Palestine,  provided  there  was  a supply  of  wa- 
ter. While  in  the  fields  the  herdsmen  lived  in  tents 


Ancient  Egyptiau  Herdsmen  giving  an  Account  of  the  Cattle.  (Wilkinson.) 

Fig.  1 . Herdsmen  (jiving  nn  account  to  the  scrihe,  3,  2.  Another  doing  obeisance  to  the  master  of  the  estate,  or  to  the  scribe.  9t]’e,r  *lel^ ” 6 

driver  of  the  cattle,  carrying  a rope  in  his  hand.  6.  Bowing  and  giving  Uis  report  to  the  scribe,  7,  over  whom  is  the  usual  satchel,  and  two  no  s. 


HERES 


198  HERESY 


(nilS'r ^3,  Song  of  Sol.  i,  8 ; Isa.  xxxviii,  12 ; Jer.  vi,  3), 
and  there  were  folds  (ri“T5,  Numb.  xxxii,  16;  2 Sam. 
vii,  8;  Zeph,  ii,  6),  and  apparently  in  some  eases  tents 
(C^pnX,  2 Chron.  xiv,  15)  for  the  cattle.  Watch-tow- 
ers were  also  erected,  whence  the  shepherd  could  descry7 
any  coming  danger  to  his  charge;  and  vigilance  in  this 
respect  was  one  of  the  shepherd’s  chief  virtues  (Mic.  iv, 
8;  Nali.  iii,  18;  Luke  ii,  8).  If  any  of  the  cattle  wan- 
dered he  was  bound  to  follow  them,  and  leave  no  means 
untried  to  recover  them  (Ezek.  xxxiv,  12 ; Luke  xv,  5) ; 
and  harsh  masters  were  apt  to  require  at  their  servants’ 
hands  any  loss  they  might  have  sustained,  either  by  the 
wandering  of  the  cattle  or  the  ravages  of  wild  beasts 
(Gen.  xxxi.88  sq.),  a tendency  on  which  a partial  check 
was  placed  by  the  law,  that  if  it  was  torn  by  beasts,  and 
the  pieces  could  be  produced,  the  person  in  whose  charge 
it  was  should  not  be  required  to  make  restitution  (Exod. 
xxii,  13;  comp.  Amos  iii,  12).  To  assist  them  in  both 
watching  and  defending  the  flocks,  and  in  recovering 
any  that  had  strayed,  shepherds  had  dogs  (Job  xxx,  1), 
a 5 have  the  modern  Arabs;  not,  however,  “like  those 
in  other  lands,  fine,  faithful  fellows,  the  friend  and  com- 
panion of  their  masters  . . . but  a mean,  sinister,  ill- 
conditioned  generation,  kept  at  a distance,  kicked  about, 
and  half  starved,  with  nothing  noble  or  attractive  about 
them”  (Thomson,  Land  and  Bool',  i,  301),  a description 
which  fully  suits  Job’s  disparaging  comparison.  The 
flocks  and  herds  were  regularly  counted  (Lev.  xxvii,  32 ; 
Jer.  xxxiii,  13),  as  in  Egypt  (Wilkinson,  ii,  177). 

The  pastures  to  which  the  herdsmen  conducted  their 
flocks  were  called  the  places  without,  the  country, 

the  desert  (Job  v,  10;  xviii,  17 ; Prov.  viii,  26;  compare 
{£cu  iv  iatjfioie,  Mark  i,  45)  ; also  IY1X3  (Jer.  xxv,  37 ; 
Amos  i,  2),  ”3  (Psa.  lxv,  13;  Jer.  ix,  9,  etc.),  n*13 

(1  Sara,  vii,  8;  IIos.  ix,  13,  etc.),  (Psa.  lxv,  13; 

Isa.  xlii,  11;  Jer.  xxiii,  10;  Joel  ii,  22,  etc.).  In  sum- 
mer the  modern  nomades  seek  the  northern  and  more 
hilly  regions,  in  winter  they  betake  themselves  to  the 
south  and  to  the  plain  country  (D’Arvieux,  iii,  315;  v, 
428) ; and  probably  the  same  usage  prevailed  among 
the  Hebrews.  In  leading  out  the  flocks  the  shepherd 
went  before  them,  and  they  followed  him  obedient  to 
his  call;  a practice  from  which  our  Saviour  draw's  a 
touching  illustration  of  the  intimate  relation  between 
him  and  his  people  (John  x,  4).  The  young  and  the 
sickly  of  the  flock  the  shepherd  would  take  in  his  arms 
and  earry,  and  he  was  careful  to  adapt  the  rate  of  ad- 
vance to  the  condition  and  capacity  of  the  feebler  or 
burdened  portion  of  his  eliarge,  a practice  which  again 
gives  occasion  fur  a beautiful  illustration  of  God’s  care 
for  his  people  (Isa.  xl,  11 ; comp.  Gen.  xxxiii,  13).  These 
usages  still  prevail  in  Palestine,  and  have  often  been 
described  by  travellers;  one  of  the  most  graphic  de- 
sreiptions  is  that  given  by  Mr.  Thomson  ( Land  and 
Book,  i,  301  sq. ; compare  Wilson,  Lands  of  the  Bible,  ii, 
322).  As  the  Jews  advanced  in  commercial  wrealth  the 
office  of  shepherd  diminished  in  importance  and  dignity. 
Among  the  later  Jews  the  shepherd  of  a small  flock  was 
precluded  from  bearing  witness,  on  the  ground  that,  as 
such  fed  their  flocks  on  the  pastures  of  others,  they  were 
infected  with  dishonesty  (Maimon.  in  Demai,  ii,  3). — 
Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Shepherd. 

He  'res,  part  of  the  name  of  twro  places,  different  in 
the  Hebrew.  See  also  Kir-Heres;  Timnath-IIeres. 

1.  IIar-ChLres  mountain  of  the  sun; 

Sept,  to  bpog  rb  6apaKtbcrjg,Yu\g.  mons  II ares,  quod  in- 
terpretatur  .testateceus,  i.  e.  of  tiles;  Auth.Vers.  “mount 
Heres”),  a city  (in  the  valley,  according  to  the  text, 
but  in  a part  of  Mt.  Ephraim,  according  to  the  name) 
of  Dan,  near  Aijalon,  of  which  the  Amorites  retained  pos- 
session (Judg.  i,  35).  It  was  probably  situated  on  some 
eminence  bordering  the  present  Merj  Ibn-Omeir  on  the 
east,  possibly  near  the  site  of  Emmaus  or  Nieopolis. 
We  may  even  hazard  the  conjecture  that  it  was  iden- 


tical with  Mt.  Jearim  (q.  d.  Ir-Shemesh,  i.  e.  sun-city), 
i.  e.  Chesalou  (q.  v.). 

2.  1r  ha-Heres  (D“n()  T?,  city -of  destruction; 
Sept.  itoXiq  cajcCtK  v.  r.  «xfpU' ; "Vulg.  civitas  soils,  evi- 
dently reading  T,3‘,  city  of  the  sun),  a name  that 

occurs  only  in  the  disputed  passage  Isa.  xix,  18,  where 
most  MSS.  and  editions,  as  also  the  versions  of  Aquila, 
Theodotion,  the  Syriac,  and  the  English,  read,  one  (of 
these  five  cities)  shall  be  called  The  city  of  destruction,  i. 
e.  in  the  idiom  of  Isaiah,  one  of  these  cities  shall  be  de- 
stroyed, a signification  (from  0 jH,  to  tear  down)  for 
w'hich  Iken  (Dissert,  phil.  crit.  16)  contends.  The  Jew's 
of  Palestine,  who  approved  this  reading,  referred  it  to 
Leontopolis  and  its  temple,  which  they  abhorred,  and 
the  destruction  of  which  they  supposed  to  be  here  pre- 
dicted. But  instead  of  heres,  the  more  probable 
reading  is  CHH,  cheres,  which  is  read  in  sixteen  MSS. 
and  some  editions,  and  is  expressed  by  the  Sept.  (Com- 
plut.),  Sy mm achus,  Vulgate,  Saadias,  and  the  margin  of 
the  English  version,  and  has  also  the  testimony  of  the 
Talmudists  (Menachoth,  fol.  110,  A.).  If  we  follow7  the 
certain  and  ascertained  usus  loquendi,  this  latter  denotes 
city  of  the  sun,  i.  e.  Heliopolis  in  Egypt,  elsewhere  call- 
ed Beth-Shemesh,  and  On.  The  Arabic  meaning  of  the 
term  is  to  defend,  to  preserve,  and  the  passage  may  be 
rendered,  one  shall  be  called  A city  preserved,  i.  e.  one 
of  those  five  cities  shall  be  preserved,  (See  Gesenius, 
Comment,  ad  loc.)  Whichever  interpretation  may  be 
chosen,  this  reading  is  to  be  preferred  to  the  other. — 
Gesenius.  See  Ik-ha-iieres. 

He'resh  (Ileb.  Che'resh,  ui'in,  silence ; Sept.’Apfc), 
one  of  the  Levites  that  dw7elt  in  the  “villages  of  the 
Netophathites”  near  Jerusalem,  on  the  return  from  Baby- 
lon (1  Chron.  Lx,  15).  B.C.  536. 

Heresiarch,  a leader  in  heresy,  founder  of  a sect 
of  heretics.  See  Heresy. 

Heresy,  in  theology,  is  any  doctrine  containing 
Christian  elements,  but  along  with  them  others  subver- 
sive of  Christian  truth. 

I.  Oriyin  ami  early  Use  of  the  Word. — The  wrord  aV- 
pemg  (fiasresis)  originally  meant  simply  choice  (e.  g.  of 
a set  of  opinions) ; later,  it  was  applied  to  the  opinions 
themselves;  last  of  all,  to  the  sect  maintaining  them. 
“ Philosophy  was  in  Greece  the  great  object  which  di- 
vided the  opinions  and  judgments  of  men;  and  hence 
the  term  heresy,  being  most  frequently  applied  to  the 
adoption  of  this  or  that  particular  dogma,  came  by  an 
easy  transition  to  signify  the  sect  or  school  in  which 
that  dogma  was  maintained;”  e.  g.  the  heresy  of  the  Sto- 
ics, of  the  Peripatetics,  and  Epicureans.  Josephus  also 
speaks  of  the  three  heresies  (at picnic,  sects,  A nt.  xii,  5,  9 
= \oao<piai,  xviii,  1,  2)  of  the  Pharisees,  Sadducees, 
and  Essenes.  In  the  historical  part  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment, the  word  denotes  a sect  or  party,  whether  good  or 
bad  (Acts  v,  17;  xv,  5;  xxiv,  5;  xxvi,  5;  xxviii,  22). 
In  Acts  xxvi,  4,  5,  St.  Paul,  in  defending  himself  before 
king  Agrippa,  uses  the  same  terra,  when  it  was  mani- 
festly his  design  to  exalt  the  party  to  which  he  had  be- 
longed, and  to  give  their  system  the  preference  over  ev- 
ery other  system  of  Judaism,  both  u7ith  regard  to  sound- 
ness of  doctrine  and  purity  of  morals.  In  the  Epistles 
the  word  occurs  in  a somewhat  different  sense.  Paid, 
in  Gal.  v,  20,  puts  alpiatig,  hei'esies,  in  the  list  of  crimes 
with  uncleanness,  seditions  (^lyoormn'm),  etc.  In  1 Cor. 
xi,  19  (there  must  also  be  heresies  among  you),  he  uses 
it  apparently  to  denote  schisms  or  divisions  in  the 
Church.  In  Tit.  iii,  10  he  comes  near  to  the  later  sense ; 
the  “ heretical  person”  appears  to  be  one  given  over  to 
a self-chosen  and  divergent  form  of  belief  and  practice. 
John  Wesley  says : “ Heresy  is  not  in  all  the  Bible  taken 
for  ‘an  error  in  fundamentals’  or  in  any  thing  else,  nor 
schism  for  any  separation  made  from  the  outward  com- 
munion of  others.  Both  heresy  and  schism,  in  the  mod- 
ern sense  of  the  -words,  are  sins  that  the  Scripture  knows 
nothing  of”  (Works,  N.  Y.  edit,  vii,  286).  In  the  early 


HERESY 


199 


HERESY 


post-apostolic  Church,  if  “ a man  admitted  a part,  or 
even  the  whole  of  Christianity,  and  added  to  it  some- 
thing of  his’  own,  or  if  he  rejected  the  whole  of  it,  he. 
was  equally  designated  as  a heretic.  Thus,  by  degrees, 
it  came  to  be  restricted  to  those  who  professed  Chris- 
tianity, but  professed  it  erroneously;  and  in  later  times, 
the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  as  defined  by  the  Council 
of  Nice,  was  almost  the  only  test  which  decided  the  or- 
thodoxy or  the  heresy  of  a Christian.  Differences  upon 
minor  points  were  then  described  by  the  milder  term  of 
schism ; and  the  distinction  seems  to  have  been  made, 
that  unity  of  faith  might  be  maintained,  though  schism 
existed;  but  if  the  unity  of  faith  was  violated,  the  vio- 
lator of  it  was  a heretic.”  In  general,  in  the  early 
Church,  all  who  did  not  hold  what  was  called  the  Cath- 
olic faith  (the  orthodox ) were  called  heretics.  At  a very 
early  period  the  notion  of  wilful  and  immoral  perversity 
began  to  be  attached  to  heresy,  and  thus  we  may  account 
for  the  severe  and  violent  language  used  against  here- 
tics. “ Charges,  indeed,  or  insinuations  of  the  grossest 
impurities  are  sometimes  thrown  out  by  the  orthodox 
writers  against  the  early  heretics;  but  we  are  boimd  to 
receive  them  with  great  caution,  because  the  answers 
which  may  have  been  given  to  them  are  lost,  and  be- 
cause they  are  not  generally  justified  by  any  authentic 
records  which  we  possess  respecting  the  lives  of  those 
heretics.  The  truth  appears  to  be  this,  that  some  fla- 
grant immoralities  were  notoriously  perpetrated  by  some 
of  the  wildest  among  their  sects,  anti  that  these  have 
given  coloring  to  the  charges  which  have  been  thrown 
upon  them  too  indiscriminately.  But,  whatsoever  un- 
certainty may  rest  on  this  inquiry,  it  cannot  be  disputed, 
first,  that  the  apostolical  fathers,  following  the  footsteps 
of  the  apostles  themselves,  regarded  with  great  jealousy 
the  birth  and  growth  of  erroneous  opinions;  and  next, 
that  they  did  not  authorize,  either  by  instruction  or  ex- 
ample, any  severity  on  the  persons  of  those  in  error. 
They  opposed  it  by  their  reasoning  and  their  eloquence, 
and  they  avoided  its  contagion  by  removing  from  their 
communion  those  who  persisted  in  it ; but  they  were 
also  mindful  that  within  these  limits  was  confined  the 
power  which  the  Church  received  from  the  apostles  who 
founded  it  over  the  spiritual  disobedience  of  its  mem- 
bers” (Waddington,  History  of  the  Church , ch.  v,  p.  59). 

II.  Relations  of  Heresy  to  the  Church  and  to  Doctrine. 
— “ Heresies,  like  sin,  all  spring  from  the  natural  man; 
but  they  first  make  their  appearance  in  opposition  to 
the  revealed  truth,  and  thus  presuppose  its  existence,  as 
the  fall  of  Adam  implies  a previous  state  of  innocence. 
There  are  religious  errors,  indeed,  to  any  extent  out  of 
Christianity,  but  no  heresies  in  the  theological  sense. 
These  errors  become  heresies  only  when  they  come  into 
contact,  at  least  outwardly,  with  revealed  truth  and  with 
the  life  of  the  Church.  They  consist  essentially  in  the 
conscious  or  unconscious  reaction  of  unsubdued  Juda- 
ism or  heathenism  against  the  new  creation  of  the  Gos- 
pel. Heresy  is  the  distortion  or  caricature  of  the  orig- 
inal Christian  truth.  But  as  God  in  his  wonderful  wis- 
dom can  bring  good  out  of  all  evil,  and  has  more  than 
compensated  for  the  loss  of  the  first  Adam  by  the  resur- 
rection of  the  second,  so  must  all  heresies  in  the  end 
only  condemn  themselves,  and  serve  the  more  fully  to 
establish  the  truth.  The  New-Testament  Scriptures 
themselves  arc  in  a great  measure  the  result  of  a firm 
resistance  to  the  distortions  and  corruptions  to  which 
the  Christian  religion  was  exposed  from  the  first.  Nay, 
we  may  say  that  every  dogma  of  the  Church,  every  doc- 
trine fixed  by  her  symbols,  is  a victory  over  a corre- 
sponding error,  and  in  a certain  sense  owes  to  the  error, 
not,  indeed,  its  substance,  which  comes  from  God,  but 
assuredly  its  logical  completeness  and  scientific  form. 
Heresies,  therefore,  belong  to  the  process  by  which  the 
Christian  truth,  received  in  simple  faith,  becomes  clear- 
ly defined  as  an  object  of  knowledge.  They  are  the 
negative  occasions,  the  challenges,  for  the  Church  to  de- 
fend her  views  of  truth,  and  to  set  them  forth  in  com- 
plete scientific  form”  (Schaff,  Apostolic  Church , § 165), 


Heresy  and  Schism. — “ Near  akin  to  heresy  is  the  idea 
of  schism  or  Church  division,  which,  however,  primarily 
means  a separation  from  the  government  and  discipline 
of  the  Church,  and  does  not  necessarily  include  depart- 
ure from  her  orthodoxy.  . . Thus  the  Kbionites,  ( inos- 
tics,  and  Arians  were  heretics ; the  Montanists,  Nova- 
tians,  and  Donatists,  schismatics.  By  the  standard  of 
the  Roman  Church,  the  Greek  Clnuch  is  only  schismat- 
ic, the  Protestant  both  heretical  and  schismatic.  Of 
course,  in  different  branches  of  the  Chinch  . . there  are 
different  views  of  heresy  and  truth,  heterodoxy  and  or- 
thodoxy, and  likewise  of  schism  and  sect”  (Schaff,  A post , 
Church , § 165).  u Heresy,  as  distinguished  from  schism, 
consists  in  the  adoption  of  opinions  and  practices  con- 
! trary  to  the  articles  and  practices  of  any  particular 
! church,  whereas  schism  is  secession  from  that  church, 
the  renouncing  allegiance  to  its  government,  or  forming 
parties  within  it ; for  surely  Paul  (in  1 Cor.  and  else- 
where) censures  men  as  causing  divisions  who  did  not 
' openly  renounce  allegiance.  Neither  schism  nor  her- 
esy, then,  is  properly  an  offence  against  the  Church  uni- 
versal, but  against  some  particular  Church,  and  by  its 
own  members.  On  the  same  principle,  no  Church  can  be 
properly  called  either  heretic  or  schismatic ; for  church- 
es, being  independent  establishments,  may  indeed  con- 
sult each  other,  but  if  they  cannot  agree,  the  guilt  of 
that  Church  which  is  in  error  is  neither  schism  nor  her- 
esy, but  corrupt  faith  or  bigoted  narrowness.  Accord- 
ingly, our  Reformers,  whilst  they  characterize  the  Rom- 
ish Church  as  one  that  has  erred , have  very  properly 
avoided  the  misapplication  of  the  terms  ‘ schismatic’ 
and  ‘heretic’  to  it.  Nevertheless,  if  a Church  has  been 
formed  by  the  secession  of  members  from  another  Church, 
on  disagreement  of  principles,  each  seceder  is  both  a 
schismatic  and  a heretic  because  of  his  former  connec- 
tion; but  the  crime  does  not  attach  to  the  Church  so 
formed,  and  accordingly  is  not  entailed  on  succeeding 
members  who  naturally  spring  up  in  it.  If  the  schism 
was  founded  in  error,  the  guilt  of  error  would  always 
attach  to  it  and  its  members,  but  not  that  of  schism  or 
heresy.  He  who  is  convinced  that  his  Church  is  essen- 
tially in  error  is  bound  to  secede ; but,  like  the  circum- 
stances which  may  be  supposed  to  justify  the  subject  of 
any  realm  in  renouncing  liis  country  and  withdrawing 
his  allegiance,  the  plea  should  be  long,  and  seriously,  and 
conscientiously  weighed;  but  with  respect  to  distinct 
churches,  as  they  can  form  alliances,  so  they  can  secede 
from  this  alliance  without  being  guilty  of  any  crime. 
So  far  from  the  separation  between  the  Romish  and 
Protestant  churches  having  anything  of  the  character 
of  schism  or  heresy  in  it,  the  Church  of  England  (sup- 
posing the  Church  of  Rome  not  to  have  needed  any  re- 
form) would  have  been  justified  in  renouncing  its  asso- 
ciation with  it  simply  on  the  ground  of  expediency” 
(Hinds,  Early  Christian  Church). 

III.  List  of  the  principal  Early  Heresies. — The  fol- 
lowing list  includes  the  chief  heresies  of  the  first  six 
centuries;  each  will  be  found  in  its  alphabetical  place  in 
this  Cyclopaedia : Century  I.  Nazarenes,  who  advocated 
the  observance  of  the  Jewish  law  by  the  worshippers 
of  Christ.  Simonians,  followers  of  Simon  Magus,  who 
prided  themselves  in  a superior  degree  of  knowledge, 
and  maintained  that  the  world  was  created  by  angels, 
denied  the  resurrection,  etc.  Nicolai tanes,  followers  of 
Nicolaus  of  Antioch.  Cerintliians  and  Ebionites,  follow- 
ers of  Cerintlius  and  Ebion,  who  denied  the  divinity  of 
Christ,  and  adopted  the  principles  of  Gnosticism.  Many 
of  them  were  Millenarians.  Century  II.  Elcesaites,  the 
followers  of  Elxai  or  Elcesai,who  only  partially  admit- 
ted the  Christian  religion,  and  whose  tenets  were  most- 
ly of  philosophic  origin.  Gnostics,  so  called  from  their 
pretences  to  yvwotQ,  superior  knowledge : this  seems  to 
have  been  the  general  name  of  all  heretics.  (1.)  Among 
Syrian  Gnostics  were  the  followers  of  Saturninus,  who 
adopted  the  notion  of  two  principles  reigning  over  the 
world,  assumed  the  evil  nature  of  matter,  denied  the  re- 
ality of  Christ’s  human  body,  etc.  Bardesauians : their 


HERESY 


200 


HERESY 


principles  resembled  those  of  Satuminus.  Tatiauists ' 
and  Encratitae,  who  boasted  of  an  extraordinary  conti- 
nence, condemned  marriage,  etc.  Apotactici,  who,  in 
addition  to  the  opinions  of  the  Tatiauists,  renounced 
property,  etc.,  and  asserted  that  any  who  lived  in  the 
marriage  state  were  incapable  of  salvation.  (2.)  Gnos- 
tics of  Asia  Minor.  Cerdoniaus,  who  held  two  contra- 
ry principles,  denied  the  resurrection,  despised  the  au- 
thority of  the  Old  Testament,  and  rejected  the  Gospels. 
Marei  unites,  who  resembled  the  Cerdoniaus,  and  in  ad- 
dition admitted  two  Gods,  asserted  that  the  Saviours 
body  was  a phantasm,  etc.  The  followers  of  Lucian  and 
Apelles  may  be  classed  among  the  Marcionites.  (3.) 
Among  Egyptian  Gnostics  were  the  Basilidians,  follow- 
ers of  Basilides,  who  espoused  the  heresies  of  Simon  Ma- 
gus, and  admitted  the  fundamental  point  on  which  the 
whole  of  the  hypotheses  then  prevalent  may  be  said  to 
hinge,  namely,  that  the  world  had  been  created,  not  by 
the  immediate  operation  of  the  divine  being,  but  by  the 
agency  of  icons.  Carpocratians,  Antitacta*,  Adamites, 
Prodicians,  the  followers  of  Secundus,  Ptolemy,  Marcus, 

( olobarsus,  and  Heracleon.  (4.)  Inferior  sects  of  Gnos- 
tics— Setliians,  Cainitcs,  Ophites. 

Heresies  not  of  Oriental  origin:  Pat  ripassians,  whose 
principal  leader  was  Praxeas;  Melcliizedechians,  under 
Theodotus  and  Artemon ; Hermogcnians,  Montanists, 
Chiliasts  or  Millenarians.  Century  III.  The  Maniclne- 
ans,  the  Ilieracites,  the  Patripassians,  under  Noetus  and 
Sabellius;.  heresy  of  Beryllus;  Paulianists,  under  Paul 
of  Samosata , Novatians,  under  Novatus  and  Novatian  ; 
the  Monarchici,  the  Arabici,  the  Aquarians,  the  Origen- 
ists.  Century  IV.  The  Arians,  Collnthians,  Macedoni- 
ans,  Agnoeta?,  A])ollinarians,  Collyridians,  Seleucians, 
Anthropomorpliites,  Jovinianists,  Messalians,  Timothe 
ans,  Priscillianists,  Pliotinians,  Donatists,  Messalians, 
Bonosians.  Century  P.  The  Pelagians,  Ncstorians,  Eu- 
tvehians,  Tlieopaschites.  Century  VI.  The  Aphtharto- 
docetae,  Sevcriani,  Corrupt  icola?,  Monothclites. 

IV.  Punishment  of  Heresy.  — Soon  after  the  triumph 
of  Christianity  over  paganism,  and  its  establishment  by 
the  State,  the  laws  became  very  severe  against  heretics. 
Those  of  the  State , made  by  the  Christian  emperors 
from  the  time  of  Constantine,  are  comprised  under  one 
title,  I)e  Haireticis,  in  the  Theodosian  code.  (See  be- 
low.) The  principal  are  the  note  of  infamy  affixed  to 
all  heretics  in  common;  commerce  forbidden  to  be  held 
with  them;  privation  of  all  offices  of  dignity  and  profit; 
disqualification  to  dispose  of  their  property  by  will,  or 
to  receive  property;  pecuniary  mulcts ; proscription  and 
banishment;  corporal  punishment,  such  as  scourging. 
Heretics  were  forbidden  to  hold  public  disputations;  to 
propagate  their  opinions;  their  children  could  not  in- 
herit patrimony,  unless  they  returned  to  the  Church, 
etc.  The  laws  of  the  Church  consisted  in  pronouncing 
formal  anathema,  or  excommunication,  against  them; 
forbidding  them  to  enter  the  church,  so  much  as  to  hear 
sermons  or  the  reading  of  the  Scriptures  (this  was  but 
partially  observed);  the  prohibition  of  all  persons,  un- 
der pain  of  excommunication,  to  join  with  them  in  any 
religions  exercises;  the  enjoining  that  none  should  cat 
or  converse  familiarly  with  them,  or  contract  affinity 
with  them ; their  names  were  to  be  struck  out  of  the 
diptychs;  and  their  testimony  was  not  to  be  received  in 
any  ecclesiastical  cause  (Bingham,  Oriy.  Pccles.  vol.  ii). 
Augustine’s  view  of  heresy  is  deserving  of  special  no- 
tice, as  it  forms  the  basis  of  the  doctrine  and  practice  of 
the  Middle  Ages.  In  De  Civit.  Dei,  xviii,  51,  he  says; 
‘“Qui  ergo  in  ecclcsia  morbidum  aliquid  pravumque  sa- 
piuut,  si  correpti,  ut  sanum  rect unique  sapiant,  resis- 
tunt  contumaciter,  suaque  pcstifera  et  mortifera  dogmata 
emendare  nolunt,  sed  defensare  persist  nut,  hvreticifunt, 
et  foras  excuntes  hahentur  in  exercentibus  inimicis."  The 
earlier  fathers  of  the  Church  had  steadily  refused  using 
force  in  opposing  heresy  (Hilaries,  Pictar.  ad  Constant. 
i,  2 and  7;  contr.  Auxent.  lib.  init.;  Athanasius,  Hist. 
Ai-ian.  § 33),  and  at  most  permitted  the  secular  powers 
to  interfere  to  prevent  the  organization  of  heretical  com- 


munities (Chrysost.  Homil.  29,  46,  in  Matth.),  and  even 
this  was  often  censured  (see  Socrates,  Hist.  Ecdes.  vi,  19, 
where  it  is  said  that  the  misfortunes  which  befel  Chry- 
sostom were  by  many  considered  as  a punishment  for 
his  having  caused  churches  belonging  to  the  Quarto- 
dec  i man  i and  Novatians  of  Asia  to  be  taken  away  from 
them  and  closed).  Augustine,  on  the  contrary  ( Retrao 
tat.  ii,  c.  5 ; ep.  93,  ad  Vineentium,  § 17 ; ep.  185,  ad  Bo- 
nifac.  § 21 ;,  Opus,  imperf.  2,  2),  basing  himself  on  the 
passage  Luke  xiv,  23  ( coyite  intrare,  etc.),  completely 
reversed  his  former  opinion  that  heretics  and  schismat- 
ics were  not  to  be  brought  back  by  the  aid  of  secular 
power,  and  stated  explicitly,  as  a fundamental  princi- 
ple, that  “ danmata  hteresis  ab  episcopis  non  adhne  ex~ 
aminanda,  sed  coercenda  est  potestatibus  Christianis." 
He  only  rejects  the  iniliction  of  capital  punishment,  yet 
more  on  account  of  the  general  opposition  of  the  ancient 
Church  to  this  mode  of  punishment  than  from  leniency 
towards  heresy.  It  is,  consequently,  not  strange  if  even 
this  protest  against  the  execution  of  heretics  came  sub- 
sequently to  be  disregarded,  and  the  punishment  even 
approved  (sec  Leo  M.  ep.  15,  ad  Turribimn ; Hieronymus, 
ep.  37,  ad  Bipar.).  In  the  Middle  Ages  we  find  the 
Roman  Church,  on  the  one  hand,  condemning  capital 
punishment  by  its  canon  law,  and  at  the  same  time  de- 
manding the  application  of  this  punishment  to  heretics 
from  the  secular  law.  Julian  the  Apostate  had  long  be- 
i fore  reproached  the  Christians  of  his  time  for  persecuting 
! heretics  by  force  (ep.  52,  and  ap.  Cyrill.  c.Julictnum  VI'). 
As  to  the  principles  which  guided  the  conduct  of  the 
secular  powers  towards  heretics,  we  find  that  it  wavered 
long  between  an  entire  liberty  in  establishing  sects,  sub- 
mitting them  to  mere  police  regulations,  restricting 
them  in  the  carrying  out  of  their  system  of  worship, 
depriving  them  of  some  political  rights  and  privileges, 
formally  prohibiting  them,  and  finally  punishing  them  as 
criminals.  Through  all  these  variations  the  fundament- 
al principle  was  adhered  to  that  the  secular  power  pos- 
sesses in  general  the  right  to  punish,  repress,  or  extir- 
pate heresy.  Hesitation  is  shown  only  in  the  mode  of 
applying  this  principle,  not  in  the  principle  itself.  More- 
over, the  exercise  of  this  right  was  in  no  way  subject  to 
the  decision  of  the  Church,  and  the  secular  power  could 
by  itself  decide  whether  and  how  far  a certain  heresy 
should  be  tolerated — a right  which  the  states  retained 
without  opposition  until  the  Middle  Ages.  The  numer- 
ous laws  contained  in  the  Codex  Theodosianus,  xvi,  tit. 
v,  De  Ilcereticis,  to  which  we  may  add  xvi,  tit.  i,  2,  3, 
are  the  principal  sources  for  the  history  of  the  laws  con- 
cerning sects  in  antiquity.  History  shows  ns  that  in 
the  use  of  compulsion  and  punishments  against  heretics 
the  secular  power  anticipated  the  wishes  of  the  Church, 
doing  more  than  the  latter  was  at  first  disposed  to  ap- 
prove. Julian  the  Apostate  granted  full  freedom  to  her- 
etics with  a view  to  injure  the  Church.  Augustine  first 
succeeded,  in  the  5th  century,  in  establishing  an  agree- 
ment between  Church  and  State  on  this  question,  yet 
without  contesting  the  right  of  the  State  to  use  its  in- 
dependent authority.  This  is  proved  by  Justinian’s  In- 
stitutes (compare  cod.  i,  tit.  5),  which  interfere  directly 
j with  the  private  rights  of  heretics ; and  in  case  of  mixed 
marriages,  they  order,  regardless  of  the  patria  potest  as, 
that  the  children  shall  be  brought  up  in  the  orthodox 
faith  (cod.  i,  tit.  5;  i,  18). 

[ In  the  Middle  Ages  the  notion  of  heresy  and  of  its 
relations  to  the  Church  and  the  State  acquired  a further 
development.  At  one  time,  in  view  of  the  authority  of 
the  pope  in  matters  of  faith  and  of  the  doctrine  oifdes 
implicita  et  explicita.  the  notion  of  heresy  was  so  modi- 
fied that  the  act  of  disobedience  to  the  pope  in  refusing 
to  accept  or  reject  some  distinction  according  to  his 
command,  was  considered  almost  as  its  worst  and  most 
important  feature.  The  Scholastics  treated  the  doctrine 
concerning  heresy  scientifically.  Finally  the  Church 
came  to  deny  to  the  State  the  right  to  tolerate  any  her- 
esy it  had  condemned.  It  even  compelled  the  secular 
powers  to  repress  and  extirpate  heresy  according  to  its 


HERESY 


201 


HERESY 


dictates  by  threats  of  ecclesiastical  censure,  by  inviting 
invasion  and  revolution  in  case  of  resistance,  and  by 
commanding  the  application  of  secular  punishments, 
such  as  the  sequestration  of  property,  and  the  depriva- 
tion of  all  civil  and  political  rights,  as  was  especially 
done  by  Innocent  III.  Nevertheless,  the  Church  con- 
tinued in  the  practice,  whenever  it  handed  over  con- 
demned heretics  to  the  secular  powers  for  punishment, 
of  requesting  that  no  penalty  should  be  inflicted  on  them 
which  might  endanger  their  lives;  but  this  was  a mere 
formality,  and  so  far  from  being  made  in  earnest  that 
the  Church  itself  made  the  allowableness  of  such  pun- 
ishment one  of  its  dogmas.  Thus  Leo  X,  in  his  bull 
against  Luther,  in  1520,  condemns,  among  other  propo- 
sitions, that  which  says  that  lltereticos  comburere  est  con- 
tra voluntatem  Sjriritus  (art.  33),  and  recommended  the 
use  of  such  punishment  himself.  About  the  same  time, 
a special  form  of  proceedings  was  adopted  against  her- 
etics, and  their  persecution  was  rendered  regular  and 
systematic  by  the  establishment  of  the  Inquisition  (q. 
v.).  Thus,  in  course  of  time,  a number  of  secular  penal-, 
ties  came  to  be  considered  as  inevitably  connected  with 
ecclesiastical  condemnation,  and  were  even  pronounced 
against  heretics  by  the  Church  itself  without  further 
formalities.  The  Church,  whenever  any  individual  sus- 
pected of  heresy  recanted,  or  made  his  peace  with  the 
Church,  declared  him  (in  full  court,  after  a public  abju- 
ration) released  either  partially  or  fully  from  the  eccle- 
siastical and  secular  punishment  he  had  ipso  facto  in- 
curred. Tiiis  implied  the  right  of  still  inflicting  these 
punishments  after  the  reconciliation  (which  was  espe- 
cially done  in  the  cases  of  sequestration  of  property, 
deprivation  of  civil  or  ecclesiastical  offices,  and  degrada- 
tion, while  a return  to  heresy  after  recantation  was  to 
be  punished  by  death).  See  the  provisions  of  the  Can- 
on Law  as  found  in  A'.  de  h aortic,  v,  tit.  7;  c.  49;  A',  de 
sentent.  excommun.  v,  39 ; tit.  de  Hcer.  in  YI°,  v,  2 ; De 
ha  ret.  in  Clement,  v,  3 ; De  ha  ret.  in  Extravag.  comm, 
v,  3 ; and  comp,  the  Liber  septimus,  v,  3,  4,  and  the  laws 
against  heretics  of  the  emperor  Frederick  II,  which  are 
connected  with  the  ecclesiastical  laws  (in  Pertz,  Monum. 
ii,  244,  287,  288, 327, 328) ; and  the  regulations  concern- 
ing mixed  marriages  and  the  marriage  of  heretics.  All 
these  are  yet  considered  by  the  Roman  Catholic  Church 
as  having  the  force  of  hue,  though,  under  present  cir- 
cumstances, they  arc  not  enforced  (comp.  Benedict  XIV, 
De  synod.  Diocc.  vi,  5 ; ix,  14,  3 ; xiii,  24,  21). 

Even  in  the  18th  century  Muratori  defended  the  as- 
sertion that  the  secular  power  is  bound  to  enforce  the 
most  severe  secular  penalties  against  heretics  (De  inye- 
niorvm  moderatione  in  reliyiones  neyotio,  ii,  7 sq.).  In 
the  beginning  of  the  19th  century,  pending  the  nego- 
tiations for  the  crowning  of  Napoleon  I,  pope  Pius  VII 
declared  that  he  could  not  set  foot  in  a country  in  which 
the  law  recognised  the  freedom  of  worship  of  the  different 
religions.  The  same  pope  wrote  in  1805  to  his  nuncio 
at  Vienna,  “ The  Church  has  not  only  sought  to  pre- 
vent heretics  from  using  the  properties  of  the  Church, 
but  has  also  established,  as  the  punishment  for  the  sin 
of  heresy,  the  sequestration  of  private  property,  in  c.  10, 
A',  d.  liter  et.  (v,  7),  of  principalities,  and  of  feudal  tenures, 
in  c.  16,  eod.;  the  latter  law  contains  the  canonical  rule 
that  the  subjects  of  a heretical  prince  are  free  from  all 
oaths  of  fealty  as  well  as  from  all  fidelity  and  obedience 
to  him ; and  there  is  none  at  all  acquainted  with  history 
but  knows  the  decrees  of  deposition  issued  by  popes  and 
councils  against  obstinately  heretical  princes.  Yet  we  , 
find  ourselves  now  in  times  of  such  misfortune  and  hu-  1 
miliation  for  the  bride  of  Christ  that  the  Church  is  not 
only  unable  to  enforce  these,  its  holiest  maxims,  against 
the  rebellious  enemies  of  the  faith,  with  the  firmness  with 
which  they  should  be,  but  it  even  cannot  proclaim  them 
openly  without  danger.  Yet,  if  it  cannot  exert  its  right 
in  depriving  heretics  of  their  estates,  it  may,”  etc.  With 
this  may  be  compared  the  permission  granted  in  an- 
ticipation, in  1724  (Bullar.  Propaganda,  ii,  54,  56),  to 
the  Ruthenes,  in  case  of  conversion,  to  take  possession 


of  the  properties  they  had  lost  by  their  apostasy ; the 
satisfaction  manifested  by  the  Church  on  the  expulsion 
of  the  Protestants  from  Salzburg  (Bull.  Propay.  ii,  246)  ■ 
and  many  things  happening  every  day  in  strictly  Ro- 
man Catholic  countries,  under  the  eyes  of  the  Roman 
Sec.  ()uite  recently,  Philippi,  in  his  Canon  Law,  hon- 
estly acknowledged  the  validity  of  the  old  laws  against 
heretics,  and  asserted  their  correctness.  Even  now,  in 
all  countries  where  the  secular  power  has  not  put  an 
end  to  this,  the  bishops  promise,  in  taking  the  oath  of 
obedience  to  the  pope,  liter eticos,  schismaticos,  et  rebellcs 
eidem  Domino  nostro  vel  s uccesso  rib  us  p r a diet  is  p ro  posse 
persequar  et  impngnabo.  Yet  the  Roman  See  has  re- 
nounced, since  Sept.  17,  1824,  the  use  of  the  expression 
of  “Protestant  heretics”  in  its  official  acts;  and  it  has 
even  admitted  that,  under  the  pressure  of  existing  cir- 
cumstances, the  civil  powers  may  be  forgiven  for  toler- 
ating heretics  in  their  states!  Still,  as  soon  as  circum- 
stances will  permit,  the  Roman  See  is  prepared  to  apply 
again  the  old  laws,  which  are  merely  temporarily  sus- 
pended in  some  countries,  but  in  nowise  repealed. 

Governments,  however,  naturally  take  a different  view 
of  these  laws.  The  secular  power,  even  while  it  freed 
itself  from  its  absolute  subjection  to  the  Church,  still 
continued  to  persecute  in  various  ways  the  Protestants 
w hom  the  Church  denounced  as  heretics.  We  even  see 
them  deprived  under  Louis  XIV  of  the  right  of  emigra- 
tion ; while,  in  refusing  to  recognise  tire  validity  of  their 
marriage,  the  civil  authorities  showed  themselves  even 
more  severe  than  the  Church.  But,  becoming  wiser  by 
experience,  and  taught  by  the  general  reaction  which 
its  measures  provoked  in  the  18th  century,  the  State 
has  confined  itself  to  interfering  with  heresy  so  far  only 
as  is  necessary  to  promote  public  order  and  the  material 
good  of  the  State ; thus  claiming  only  the  right  to  re- 
I press  or  expel  those  whose  principles  are  opposed  to  the 
I existence  of  government,  or  might  create  disorder.  This 
right,  of  course,  has  been  differently  understood  in  dif- 
. ferent  countries  according  to  local  circumstances,  and 
| has  even  become  a pretence  for  persecutions  against  de- 
! nominations  which  a milder  construction  of  it  would 
i not  have  deprived  of  the  toleration  of  the  State,  as  in 
' the  persecution  of  dissidents  in  Sweden,  etc. 
j Let  us  now  compare  this  practice  of  the  Romish 
I Church  and  of  Roman  Catholic  states  with  the  dogmat- 
i ic  theory  of  the  Middle  Ages.  Thomas  Aquinas  treats 
heresy  as  the  opposite  of  faith,  connecting  it  with  inf- 
delitas  in  communi  and  apostasia  a fde.  lie  treats 
schism,  again,  as  opposed  to  charitas.  lie  defines  heresy 
as  infdelitatis  species  periinens  ad  eos,  qui  fdem  Christi 
projitentur,  std  ejus  dogmata  eorrumpimt  (1.  e.,  qu.  ii,  art. 
i),  yet  (art.  ii)  he  remarks  at  the  same  time  that  some 
I holy  fathers  themselves  erred  in  the  early  times  of  the 
! Church  on  many  points  of  faith.  In  art.  iii  he  conics  to 
the  question  whether  heretics  are  to  be  tolerated.  He 
! asserts  that  they  also  have  their  use  in  the  Church,  as 
serving  to  prove  its  faith,  and  inducing  it  diligently  to 
search  the  Scriptures,  yet  their  usefulness  in  these  re- 
spects is  involuntary.  Considered  for  themselves  only, 
heretics  “ are  not  only  deserving  of  being  cut  off  from 
communion  with  the  Church,  but  also  with  the  world, 
by  being  put  to  death.  But  the  Church  must,  in  her 
mercy,  first  use  all  means  of  converting  heretics,  and 
only  when  it  despairs  of  bringing  them  back  must  cut 
them  off  by  excommunication,  and  then  deliver  them 
up  to  secular  justice,  which  frees  the  world  of  them  by 
condemnation  to  death.”  He  only  admits  of  toleration 
towards  heretics  when  persecution  against  them  would 
be  likely  to  injure  the  faithful.  In  this  case  he  advises 
sparing  the  tares  for  the  sake  of  the  wheat.  He  further 
maintains  that  such  heretics  as  repent  may,  on  their 
first  offense,  be  entirely  pardoned,  and  all  ecclesiastical 
and  secular  punishment  remitted,  but  asserts  that  those 
who  relapse,  though  they  may  be  reconciled  with  the 
Church,  must  not  be  released  from  the  sentence  of  death 
incurred,  lest  the  bad  example  of  their  inconstancy  might 
prove  injurious  to  others. 


HERESY 


202 


HERETICS,  BAPTISM  BY 


The  Reformation  protested  against  these  doctrines.  | 
Luther,  from  the  first,  denounced  all  attempts  to  over- 
come heresy  by  sword  and  fire  instead  of  the  Word  of 
God,  and  held  that  the  civil  power  should  leave  her- 
etics to  be  dealt  with  by  the  Church.  On  this  ground 
he  opposed  Carlstadt.  Yet  it  was  a fundamental  prin- 
ciple with  all  the  Reformers,  that  governments  are  bound 
to  prevent  blasphemy,  to  see  that  the  people  receive 
from  the  Church  built  on  the  Word  of  God  the  pure 
teaching  of  that  word,  and  to  prevent  all  attempts  at 
creating  sects.  This  led  to  the  adoption  of  preventive 
measures  in  the  place  of  the  former  penalties  of  confis- 
cation, bodily  punishment,  and  death.  These  preventive 
measures  confined  the  heresy  to  the  individual,  and  ex- 
tended as  far  as  banishment,  when  no  other  means  would 
avail.  Luther  admitted  the  use  of  secular  punishment 
against  heretics  only  in  exceptional  cases,  and  then  not 
on  account  of  the  heresy,  but  of  the  residting  disorders. 
Even  then  he  considered  banishment  sufficient,  except 
when  incitations  to  revolution,  etc.,  required  more  se- 
vere punishment,  as  was  the  case  with  the  Anabaptists; 
yet  he  often  declared  against  the  application  of  capital 
punishment  to  such  heretics.  Zwingle  took  nearly  the 
same  stand  as  Luther  on  this  point,  yet  was  somewhat 
more  inclined  to  the  use  of  forcible  means.  The  Ana- 
baptists were  treated  in  a summary  manner  in  Switz- 
erland. Calvin  went  further,  and  with  his  theocratic 
ideas  considered  the  state  as  hound  to  treat  heresy  as 
blasphemy,  and  to  punish  it  in  the  severest  manner. 
His  approbation  and  even  instigation  of  the  execution 
of  Servetus  gave  rise  to  a controversy  on  the  question 
whether  heresy  might  be  punished  with  the  sword  (com- 
pare Calvini  Defensis  orthodoxy  Jidei,  etc.).  Calvin’s 
views  were  attacked  not  only  by  Bolsec,  but  also  by  Cas- 
tellio,  who,  under  the  pseudonym  of  Martin  Bellius, 
wrote  on  this  occasion  his  De  heereticis  (Magdeb.  1554), 
quoting  against  Calvin  the  opinions  of  Luther  and  of 
Brentius.  Lidias  Socinus,  in  his  Dialogns  inter  Calvinum 
et  Vaticanian  (1554),  also  advocated  toleration.  Among 
all  the  German  theologians,  Melancthon  alone  sided  with 
Calvin,  consistently  with  the  views  ( Corp . Ref.  ii,  18, 
an.  1530  ; and  iii,  195,  an.  153G)  which  he  had  long  pre- 
viously defended  against  the  more  moderate  views  of 
Brentius  (see  Hartmann  and  Jiiger,  Johann  Brenz , i,  299 
sq.). 

In  England,  in  the  first  year  of  queen  Elizabeth,  an 
act  of  Parliament  was  passed  to  enable  persons  to  try 
heretics,  and  the  following  directions  were  given  for 
their  guidance:  “And  such  persons  to  whom  the  queen 
shall  by  letters  patent  under  the  great  seal  give  author- 
ity to  execute  any  jurisdiction  spiritual,  shall  not  in  any 
wise  have  power  to  adjudge  any  matter  or  cause  to  be 
heresy,  but  only  such  as  heretofore  have  been  adjudged 
to  be  heresy,  by  the  authority  of  the  canonical  Scriptures, 
or  by  some  of  the  first  four  general  councils , or  by  any  other 
general  council  wherein  the  same  was  declared  heresy  by 
the  express  and  plain  words  of  the  said  canonical  Scrip- 
tures, or  such  as  hereafter  shall  be  judged  or  determined 
to  be  heresy  by  the  high  court  of  Parliament,  with  the 
assent  of  the  clergy  in  their  convocation.’’  “This  stat- 
ute continued  practically  in  force,  with  certain  modifi- 
cations, till  the  29  Charles  II,  c.  9,  since  which  time  her- 
esy has  been  left  entirely  to  the  cognizance  of  the  ec- 
clesiastical courts;  but, as  there  is  no  statute  defining  in 
what  heresy  consists,  and  as,  moreover,  much  of  the  ju- 
risdiction of  the  ecclesiastical  courts  has  been  withdrawn 
by  the  various  toleration  acts;  and,  above  all,  as  the  ef- 
fect of  various  recent  decisions  has  been  to  widen  almost 
indefinitely  the  construction  of  the  doctrinal  formularies 
of  the  English  Church,  it  may  now  be  said  that  the  ju- 
risdiction of  these  courts  in  matters  of  heresy  is  practi- 
cally limited  to  preventing  ministers  of  the  Established 
Church  from  preaching  in  opposition  to  the  doctrine 
and  the  articles  of  the  establishment  from  which  they 
derive  their  emoluments,  and  that,  even  in  determining 
what  is  to  be  considered  contrary  to  the  articles,  a large 
toleration  has  been  juridically  established.  See  the  re- 


cent trial  of  Dr.  Rowland  Williams,  and  the  judgment 
given  by  Dr.  Lushington  in  the  Court  of  Arches”  (Cham- 
bers, Cydopcedia , s.  v.).  The  Protestant  churches  gen- 
erally, in  the  19th  century,  deny  the  power  of  the  State 
to  punish  heresy.  The  Roman  Church  retains  its  old 
theories  upon  the  subject,  but  its  power  is  limited  by  the 
progress  of  civilization.  See  Toleration. 

The  history  of  the  various  heresies  is  given,  with 
more  or  less  fulness,  in  the  Church  histories.  Walch’s 
Entw.  einer  vollstand.  Ilistorie  d.  Ketzereien,  etc.  (1762- 
1785, 11  vols.),  gives  a history  of  doctrines  and  heresies 
(so-called)  up  to  the  9tli  century.  “As  a history  of  her- 
esies, divisions,  and  religious  controversies,  it  is  still  in- 
dispensable. Walch  is  free  from  polemic  zeal,  and  bent 
upon  the  critical  and  pragmatic  representation  of  his 
subject,  without  sympathy  or  antipathy”  (Scliaff,  A post. 
History,  § 31).  See  also  Lardner,  History  of  the  Here- 
tics of  the  first  two  Centuries,  u'ith  additions  by  Hogg 
(Lond.  1780,  4to;  and  in  Lardner,  Works,  11  vols.  8vo) ; 
Fiissli,  Kirchen-u.-Ketzerhistorien  d.mittlern  Zeit  (Frcft. 
1770-1774, 3 vols.) ; Baumgarten,  Geschichte  d.  Religions* 
purtheien  (Halle,  17GG,  4to).  Professor  Oehler  com- 
menced in  185G  the  publication  of  a Corpus  Ileeresiolog- 
icum,  designed  to  contain,  in  8 vols.,  all  the  principal 
works  on  heresies,  with  notes  and  prolegomena.  See 
also  Burton,  Enquiry  into  the  Heresies  of  the  Apostolic 
A ge  ( Bampton  Lecture  for  1829,  8vo) ; Campbell,  Pre- 
liminary Biss,  to  Comm,  on  Four  Gospels ; Herzog,  Real- 
Encyklopddie,  v,  468 ; Elliott,  Delineation  of  Romanism, 
bk.  iii,  ch.  iii,  et  al. ; Cramp,  Text-book  of  Popery,  p.  252, 
480;  Dorner , Person  of  Christ  (Edinb.transl.),i,344;  Ne- 
ander,  History  of  Dogmas  (Ryland’s  transl.),  i,  16.  See 
also  H.euetico  Comburendo;  Persecution;  Toler- 
ation. 

Heretic.  See  Heresy. 

Heretics,  Baptism  by.  When  the  line  between 
the  orthodox  and  the  heretics  [see  Heresy]  was  clear- 
ly drawn  in  the  early  Church,  the  question  whether 
baptism  performed  by  heretics  should  be  regarded  as 
valid  by  the  orthodox  began  to  be  mooted.  It  after- 
wards became  of  great  moment,  especially  with  regard 
to  the  claims  of  the  Church  of  Rome. 

1.  As  early  as  the  3d  century  heretical  baptism  was 
pronounced  invalid.  Clemens  Alexandrians  calls  it  false 
and  foreign  ( Stromat . i,  375).  Tertullian  declared  that 
it  was  of  no  value  ( De  Baptismo,  cap.  xv).  “ Cyprian, 
whose  epistles  afford  the  clearest  information  on  this 
subject,  followed  Tertullian  in  rejecting  baptism  by  her- 
etics as  an  inoperative  mock  baptism,  and  demanded 
that  all  heretics  coming  over  to  the  Catholic  Church  be 
baptized  (he  would  not  say  re-baptized).  His  position 
here  was  due  to  his  High-Church  exclusivism  and  his 
horror  of  schism.  As  the  one  Catholic  Church  is  the 
sole  repository  of  all  grace,  there  can  be  no  forgiveness 
of  sins,  no  regeneration  or  communication  of  the  Spirit, 
no  salvation,  therefore  no  valid  sacraments,  out  of  her 
bosom.  So  far  he  had  logical  consistency  on  his  side. 
But,  on  the  other  hand,  he  departed  from  the  objective 
view  of  the  Church,  as  the  Donatists  afterwards  did,  in 
making  the  efficiency  of  the  sacrament  depend  on  the 
| subjective  holiness  of  the  priest.  ‘How  can  one  conse- 
crate water,’  he  asks,  ‘who  is  himself  unholy,  and  has 
not  the  Holy  Ghost?’  He  was  followed  by  the  North 
African  Church,  which,  in  several  councils  at  Carthage 
in  the  years  255-6,  rejected  heretical  baptism;  and  by 
the  Church  of  Asia  Minor,  which  had  already  acted  on 
this  view,  and  now,  in  the  person  of  the  Cappadocian 
bishop  Firmilian,  a disciple  and  venerator  of  the  great 
Origen,  vigorously  defended  it  against  the  intolerance 
of  Rome.  The  Roman  bishop  Stephen  (253-257)  ap- 
peared for  the  opposite  doctrine,  on  the  ground  of  the  an- 
cient practice  of  the  Church.  He  offered  no  argument, 
but  spoke  with  the  consciousness  of  authority,  and  fol- 
lowed a catholic  instinct.  He  laid  chief  stress  on  the 
objective  nature  of  the  sacrament,  the  virtue  of  which 
depended  neither  on  the  officiating  priest  nor  on  the 


HERITAGE 


203 


HERMANN 


receiver,  but  solely  on  the  institution  of  Christ.  Hence 
he  considered  heretical  baptism  valid,  provided  it  had 
been  administered  in  the  right  form,  to  wit,  in  the  name 
of  the  Trinity,  or  even  of  Christ  alone ; so  that  heretics 
coming  into  the  Church  needed  only  eontimiation,  or 
the  ratification  of  baptism  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  ‘Her- 
esy,’ says  he,  ‘ produees  children  and  exposes  them ; and 
the  Church  takes  up  the  exposed  children,  and  nour- 
ishes them  as  her  own,  though  she  herself  has  not 
brought  them  forth.’  The  doctrine  of  Cyprian  was  the 
more  consistent  from  the  churehly  point  of  view,  that 
of  Stephen  from  the  sacramental.  The  one  preserved 
the  principle  of  the  exclusiveness  of  the  Church,  the 
other  that  of  the  objective  force  of  the  sacraments,  even 
to  the  borders  of  the  opus-operatum  theory.  Both  were 
under  the  direction  of  the  same  hierarchical  spirit,  and 
the  same  hatred  of  heretics ; but  the  Homan  doctrine  is, 
after  all,  a happy  inconsistency  of  liberality,  an  inroad 
upon  the  principle  of  absolute  exclusiveness,  an  invol- 
untary concession  that  baptism,  and,  with  it,  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  and  regeneration,  therefore  salvation,  are 
possible  outside  of  Homan  Catholicism.  The  contro- 
versy itself  was  conducted  with  great  warmth.  Ste- 
phen, though  advocating  the  liberal  view,  showed  the 
genuine  papal  arrogance  and  intolerance,  lie  would  not 
even  admit  to  his  presence  the  deputies  of  Cyprian,  who 
brought  him  the  decree  of  the  African  Synod,  and  called 
this  bishop,  who  in  every  respect  far  excelled  Stephen, 
and  whom  the  Roman  Church  now  venerates  as  one  of 
her  greatest  saints,  a ‘ pseudo -Christum,  pseudo -apos- 
toluni,  et  dolosum  operarium.’  He  broke  oft'  all  inter- 
course with  the  African  Clmreh,  as  he  had  already  done 
with  the  Asiatic.  But  Cyprian  and  Finnilian,  nothing 
daunted,  vindicated  with  great  boldness,  the  latter  also 
with  bitter  vehemence,  their  different  view,  and  con- 
tinued in  it  to  their  death.  The  Alexandrian  bishop 
Dionysius  endeavored  to  reconcile  the  two  parties,  but 
with  little  success.  The  Valerian  persecution,  which 
soon  ensued,  and  the  martyrdom  of  Stephen  (257)  and 
of  Cyprian  (258),  suppressed  this  internal  discord.  In 
the  course  of  the  4th  century,  however,  the  Roman 
practice  gradually  gained  on  the  other,  was  raised  to  a 
doctrine  of  the  Church  by  the  Council  of  Niee  in  325, 
and  was  afterwards  confirmed  by  the  Council  of  Trent, 
with  an  anathema  on  the  opposite  view”  (Sehafif,  Histo- 
ry of  the  Christian  Church,  eh.  vi,  § 104). 

2.  The  deeree  of  the  Council  of  Trent  as  to  baptism  by 
heretics  is  as  follows : “ If  any  man  shall  say  that  the 
baptism  which  is  given  by  hereties  in  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  with  the 
intention  of  doing  what  the  Church  doth,  is  not  true 
baptism,  let  him  be  anathema”  (sess.  vii,  ean.  iv).  This, 
at  first  view,  may  appear  liberal ; but  the  indirect  in- 
tention of  it  is  to  claim  all  baptized  persons  as  under  the 
jurisdiction  of  Rome.  Canon  viii  affirms  that  the  bap- 
tized are  bound  “by  all  the  precepts  of  the  Church, 
whether  written  or  transmitted.”  Canon  xiv  declares 
that  any  one  who  shall  say  “ that  those  who  have  been 
baptized  when  infants  are  to  be  left  to  their  own  will 
when  they  grow  up,  and  are  not  meanwhile  to  be  com- 
pelled to  a Christian  life  by  any  other  penalty  save  ex- 
clusion from  the  Eucharist  and  the  other  seven  sacra- 
ments till  they  repent,”  is  to  be  anathema. 

3.  Luther  admitted  the  validity  of  Romish  baptism, 
and  in  this  he  is  followed  by  Protestants  generally,  who 
do  not  rebaptize  converts  from  Rome.  The  Protestant 
churches  (except  the  Baptist)  admit  the  validity  of 
each  other's  baptism.  See  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vii, 
538;  Coleman,  A nc.  Christianity,  p.  363 ; Elliott,  Roman- 
ian, bk.  ii,  ch.  ii ; Guerieke,  Christl.  Symboli/c,  § 59. 

Heriger.  See  Lobbes. 

Heritage,  denoted  by  several  Heb.  words:  IV HX, 
achuzzah',  a “possession;”  naehalah',  or  rbh:, 

nachalath',  il  heritage,”  etc.;  also  yerushshah'; 

HWIB,  morashah'.  Only  sons  (compare  Gen.  xxi,  10 ; 


xxxi,  14  sq.),  and,  indeed,  only  those  of  regular  wives 
(comp. Gen.  xxi,  10  sq.;  xxiv,3G;  xxv,  5sq.  .*  Jephthah 
is  no  exception,  Judg.  xi,  2,  7;  see  Bastard),  had  any 
legal  title  to  the  paternal  inheritance,  according  to  an- 
cient usage  among  the  Israelites ; and  amongst  these 
the  first-born,  who  might  be  of  the  favorite  or  a less  fa- 
vored wife,  enjoyed  a double  portion  (Deut.  xxi,  15  sq.). 
See  Primogeniture.  Daughters  became  heiresses, 
when  sons  existed,  only  by  the  special  grant  of  the  fa- 
ther (Josh,  xv,  18  sq. ; eomp.  Job  xlii,  15),  but  regularly 
in  the  absence  of  male  heirs  (Numb,  xxvii,  8) ; yet  heir- 
esses (t7nV'X?/pot — such,  according  to  many,  was  Mary, 
the  mother  of  Jesus)  were  not  allowed  to  marry  a man 
of  another  tribe  (Numb.  xxxvi,6  sq. ; comp.  Tobit  vi,  12 
sq. ; vii,  14 ; Josephus,  Ant.  iv,  7,  5;  see  Miehaelis,  Mos. 
Recht,  ii,  81 ; Buxtorf,  Sponsal.  et  Divort.  p.  G7  sq.,  in 
Ugolini  Thesuur.  xxx;  Selden,  De  siteeessione  in  bona 
put.  c.  18),  so  as  not  to  interrupt  the  regular  transmis- 
sion of  the  estate  (see  Wachsmuth,  Hellen.  Alterthnmsk. 
iii,  20G,  213;  Cans,  Erbrecht,  i,  337  sq. ; eomp.  Rhode, 
Rel.  Bikl  cl.  Hindu , ii,  G08).  On  the  heirship  of  distant 
kinsmen,  see  Numb,  xxvii,  9 sq.  (eomp.  Philo,  lEwEs, 
ii,  172;  see  Mishna,  Baba  Bathra,  iv,  3,  c.  8,  9;  Gans, 
Erbrecht,  i,  152  sq.).  Respecting  written  -wills,  we  find 
nothing  legally  prescribed  (see  8.  Ran,  De  Testamentiji - 
catione  Ilebrceis  vet.ignota , pra;s.  L.Van  Wolde,  Traj.  ad 
Rhen.  17G0;  also  in  Oelrich’s  Collect.  Opusc.  i,  305  sq.), 
and  as  the  heirsliip-at-law  had  undisputed  force  as  a le- 
gal principle  (Numb,  xxi,  11),  it  must  have  operated  as 
a testamentary  disposition  of  the  inheritance,  to  the  ex- 
clusion of  any  more  formal  method  of  bequest  (Gans, 
Erbrecht,  i,  149  sq.) ; for  the  passage  in  Tobit  viii,  23 
does  not  refer  to  a devise  by  will,  and  Prow  xvii,  2 only 
shows  that  slaves  might  become  heirs  by  a special  ar- 
rangement of  their  masters  (see  Rosenm idler  in  loc. ; 
Gesenius,  Thes.  Heb.  i,  483),  while  Gen.  xv,3  refers  to  an 
earlier  period.  But  in  later  times  regular  testaments 
must  have  obtained  among  the  Jews  (Gal.  iii,  15;  lleb. 
ix,  17 ; comp.  Josephus,  A nt.  xiii,  1G,  1 ; xvii,  3,  2 ; l For, 
ii,  2,  3),  in  imitation  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans  (see 
Smith’s  Diet,  of  Class.  A ntiq.  s.  v.  lleres,  Testamc  ntum) ; 
and  in  the  Talmudieal  law  of  heritage  they  became  of 
effect  (Gans,  Erbrecht,  i,  171),  although  not  in  the  ex- 
tensive sense  of  the  Roman  law.  Sometimes  the  parent 
divided  the  inheritance  (i.  e.  a portion  of  it)  among  his 
children  during  his  lifetime  (Luke  xv,  12;  eomp.  Tobit 
viii,  23;  see  Rosenmiiller,  Morgenl.  v.  197).  (On  the 
subject  generally,  see  Miehaelis,  Mos.  Recht,  ii,  7G  sq. ; 
J.  Selden,  De  siteeessione  in  bona  defined  ad  ley.  Ifcbr. 
Loud.  1G36;  also  in  his  Uxor.  Ebr.  and  in  his  Works,  ii, 
1 sq.) — Winer,  i,  335.  See  Inheritance. 

Hermann  of  Cologne  (prince  archbishop),  son  of 
Frederick  I,  count  of  Wied,  was  educated  for  the  priest- 
hood, elected  archbishop  in  1515,  and  confirmed  by  pope 
Leo  X as  Hermann  V.  Having  imbibed  the  principles 
of  the  Reformation,  he  first  attempted  a Roman  Catholic 
reform  in  Cologne,  but,  finding  this  impossible,  he  at  last 
assumed  a Protestant  position,  and  invited  Bueer  and 
Melanetlion,  in  1542,  to  assist  him.  Had  he  succeeded 
in  his  plans,  the  whole  Rhine  country  would  probably 
have  become  Protestant;  but  he  was  excommunicated 
by  the  pope,  menaced  by  the  emperor,  and  abandoned 
by  his  estates.  He  finally  resigned  his  office  in  1547, 
and  retired  to  his  estates  in  Wied,  where  he  died  Aug. 
15,  1552.  He  was  beloved  by  his  people,  honored  by 
the  emperor  Charles  V,  and  esteemed  by  the  great  lead- 
ers of  the  Reformation.  An  account  of  Hermann’s  re- 
lation to  his  times  is  given  in  Deckers,  Hermann  ron 
Wied  (Cologne,  1840).  His  Form  of  Service  was  made 
use  of  in  the  framing  of  the  English  “ Book  of  Common 
Prayer.”  Sec  Hase,  Church  History , § 337-340;  Hard- 
wick, History  of  the  Reformation,  p.  G5,  213.  See  Com- 
mon Prayer. 

Hermann  of  Fritzlar,  a mystic,  was  bom  at 
Fritzlar,  in  Hesse,  towards -the  middle  of  the  14th  cen- 
tury. Nothing  certain  is  known  of  his  position  or  so- 


HERMANN 


204 


HERMAS 


rial  relations:  it  is  probable,  however,  that  he  was  a 
rich  layman,  like  Nicholas  of  Basle,  who  retired  from 
the  world  to  devote  himself  to  reading  and  writing 
theological  works.  One  of  his  earlier  works,  to  which 
he  refers  himself,  Die  Blunie  der  Schauung  ( doubtless  of 
speculative  tendency),  appears  to  have  been  lost.  We 
have,  however,  his  Heiligenleben  (printed  in  Pfeiffer’s 
Deutschen  Mystikern  des  14  Jahrli.  i,  1-258,  from  the 
Heidelberg  MS.  executed  under  his  supervision  in  1343- 
1349).  It  is  an  extensive  work,  compiled  from  sources 
now  mostly  lost — Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Hermann  ok  Leiixix.  See  Leiimn. 

Hermann  of  Salga.  See  Salga. 

Hermann  of  Wied.  See  Wted. 

Hermann,  or  Hermannus,  Contractus,  so  call- 
ed from  disease  having  shrunk  up  his  limbs,  was  a 
monk  of  Reich enau,  and  one  of  the  learned  men  of  the 
11th  century,  being  well  skilled  in  Latin,  Greek,  and 
Arabic.  He  was  born  in  1013,  and  was  the  son  of  the 
count  of  Weringen  in  Suevia.  He  wrote  a Chronicle 
[De  Sex  aztatibus  mnndi ),  which  commences  at  the  Cre- 
ation and  ends  A.D.  1052.  The  events  occurring  before 
the  Christian  a?ra  are  very  briefly  noticed,  but  after- 
wards he  enters  into  more  details,  and  amplifies  as  he 
approaches  nearer  to  his  own  times.  The  “ Chronicle” 
was  continued  by  Berthold  of  Constance  up  to  1065,  and 
published  at  Basle  in  1536,  and  again  at  St.  Blaise  in 
1790  (2  vols.  4to).  It  may  be  found  also  in  Bibl.  Max. 
Patr.v ol.  xviii.  Trithemins  ascribes  the  hymns  Alma 
Redemptoris  mater  and  Salve  Regina  to  Hermann.  See 
Dupin,  Reel.  Writers , ix,  102. 

Hermann  or  Hermannus,  abbot  of  Tours,  A.D. 
1127,  resigned  his  office  in  consequence  of  long-continued 
illness.  He  wrote  Tractatus  de  Incarnatione  Christi 
(ed.  C.  Gudin,  Vet.  Sac.  Lugd.  Bat.  1692) ; three  books  of 
the  Miracles  of  Mary  of  Laon;  and  a History  of  the  Mon- 
astery of  St.  Martin  in  Tours , which  are  given  in 
D’Acliery,  Spicileg.  ii,  888. — Dupin,  Ecclesiastical  Writ- 
ers , x,  181. 

Hermann  von  der  Hardt,  a German  Protestant 
theologian  and  philologist,  was  born  at  Melle  (Westpha- 
lia) Nov.  15, 1660.  He  studied  at  Osnabruek,  Jena,  and 
Hamburg.  In  1681  he  began  to  lecture  privately  at 
Jena,  but,  not  succeeding  as  well  as  he  had  expected,  he 
went  to  Leipzig  in  1686,  where  he  joined  the  celebrated 
Collegium  philobiblicum.  In  1688  he  became  librarian 
and  secretary  of  duke  Rudolph  August  of  Brunswick, 
and  the  latter  caused  him  finally  to  be  appointed  pro- 
fessor of  Oriental  languages  at  the  University  of  Helm- 
stadt  in  1690,  He  afterwards  became  senior  of  the  Uni- 
versity and  provost  of  the  convent  of  Marienburg.  He 
died  Feb.  28, 1746.  Hermann  was  a very  active  and  in- 
genious scholar,  but  his  tendency  to  paradoxical  asser- 
tions caused  him  to  fall  into  errors,  which,  however,  were 
perhaps  too  severely  condemned  by  his  adversaries.  He 
wrote  Autographa  Lutheri  aliorumque  celebrium  viro- 
non,  etc.  (Brunsw.  1690-1693,  3 vols.  8vo): — Ephemer- 
ides  Phihlogicir,  quibus  difficiliora  qmedam  loca  Penta- 
tenchi  ad  Hebraicor uni  font ium  tenorem  explieata,  etc. 
(llelmstadt,  1693,  1696,  and  1703): — IToseas  iUustratus 
chaldaica  J omit  hi  inis  versione  et  philologicis  celebrium 
rabbinorum  Raschi,  A ben  Esrce  et  Kimchi  commentariis 
(Ilelmst.  1702,  1775): — Magnum  aannenicum  Constan- 
tinense  Concilium  de  universali  Ecclesim  reformatione, 
tinione  et  Jide,  etc.  (Frankf.  and  Leipz.  1700,  i 742, 4 vols. 
fol.): — Historia  litteraria  Reformations  (Frankfort  and 
Leipz.  1717) : — Evangelicce  Rei  Integrities  in  negotio  Jonce 
quatuor  libris  declarata  (Frankf.  1719, 4to) : — xEnigmata 
prisci  orbis : Jonas  in  luce  in  historia  Manassis  et  Jo- 
sice  ; xEnigmata  Grcecorum  et  Latinonim  ex  culigine ; 
Apocalypsis  ex  tenebris  (Helmst.  1723,  fol.).  This  work 
attracted  great  attention  when  first  published: — Tomus 
primus  in  Jobuin,  historiam  populi  Israelis  in  Assyriaco 
cxilio,  Samaria  eversa  et  regno  extincto , etc.  (Helmstadt, 
1728.  fol.).  See  J.  Fabricius , Hist.  Biblot h.  pt.  ii,  p.  342- 
847,351-352;  Nova  Acta  Eruditorum  (an.  1746,  p.  475- 


480) ; Breithaupt,  Memoria  Herm.  v.  d.  Hardt  (Ilelmst, 
1746);  Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate , xxiii,362. 

Hermann,  Nikolaurf,  one  of  the  earliest  evan- 
gelical hymnologists,  flourished  about  the  middle  of  the 
16th  century.  His  intimate  relation  with  the  minister 
of  the  church  of  his  place  (which  he  served  as  organist), 
Mathesius,  the  biographer  of  Luther,  gave  to  his  com- 
positions a true  reform  spirit  and  the  child-like  simplic- 
ity of  a Christian  mind.  They  have  been  preserved  in 
general  use  even  to  our  own  day. — Brockhaus,  Conver- 
sations Lexicon , vii,  841 ; Gervinus,  Gesch.  d.  poetisclien 
Nationallit.  d.  Deutschen,  iii,  10, 32.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hermaphrodite  Orders.  See  Monasticisai. 

Her'mas  ('E ppag,  from  ‘Epppc,  the  Greek  god  of 
gain,  or  Mercury ),  the  name  of  a person  to  whom  Paid 
sends  greeting  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Romans  (xvi,  14), 
and  consequently  then  resident  in  Rome  and  a Christian 
(A.D.  55) ; and  yet  the  origin  of  the  name,  like  that  of 
the  other  four  mentioned  in  the  same  verse,  is  Greek. 
However,  in  those  days,  even  a Jew,  like  Paul  himself, 
might  acquire  Roman  citizenship.  Irenreus,  Tertullian, 
and  Origen  agree  in  making  him  identical  with  the  au- 
thor of  “ the  Shepherd ” of  the  following  article,  but  this 
is  greatly  disputed.  He  is  celebrated  as  a saint  in  the 
Roman  calendar  on  May  9. — Smith,  s.  v. 

Hernias,  one  of  the  so-called  apostolical  fathers  (q. 
v.),  the  supposed  author  of  a tract  that  has  come  down 
to  us  under  the  name  of  Yloipi)v,  The  Shepherd,  and  gen- 
erally designated  by  the  title  Pastor  Ilermce.  The  au- 
thorship of  the  tract  is  uncertain,  but  it  is  clearly  not 
the  work  of  the  Hennas  ('Ep^idf)  mentioned  in  llom. 
xvi,  14,  as  Origen,  Eusebius,  and  Jerome  believed,  and 
as  the  tract  itself  seems  to  pretend.  The  author  ap- 
pears to  have  been  a layman  of  the  2d  century,  proba- 
bly a Roman  tradesman  “who  had  lost  his  wealth 
through  his  own  sins  and  the  misdeeds  of  his  neglected 
sons”  (Hilgeufeld;  Scliaff,  History  of  the  Church,  § 121). 
Others  ascribe  it  to  Hermas  or  Hermes,  brother  of  Pius, 
bishop  of  Rome  from  A.D.  142  to  157.  Of  the  Greek 
original  we  have  nothing  left  but  fragments,  which  are 
given  in  Fabricius,  Cod.  Apocryph.  N.  Test,  iii,  378,  and 
in  Grabe,  Spicileg.  i,  303.  M.  d’Abbadie  claims  (1860) 
to  have  discovered  a third  in  Ethiopia,  which  he  has 
transcribed  and  translated  into  Latin  (Lpz.  I860) ; but 
whether  the  text  from  which  it  is  taken  is  correct  is  a 
matter  for  further  investigation.  The  Greek  text  was 
at  an  early  period' translated  into  Latin,  and,  since  the 
beginning  of  the  15th  century,  often  published  (Paris, 
1513,  fol.;  Strasb.  1522,  4to;  Basle,  1555  and  1569,  fol.; 
Oxford,  1685,  12mo;  with  additions  by  Le  Clerc,  Amst. 
1698,  1724;  Paris,  1715,  12mo).  It  is  also  inserted  in 
the  various  collections  of  the  fathers  in  Cotelier,  Patres 
cevi  apostolici  (Paris,  1672,  fol.),  and  in  French  in  Des- 
prez’s  Bible  (Paris,  1715,  fol.  vol.  iv).  It  is  also  given  in 
the  various  editions  of  the  Apostolical  Fathers  (q.  v.). 
Of  late  years  this  tract  has  been  the  subject  of  more  ed- 
iting and  literary  criticism  than  almost  any  relic  of  the 
early  Church.  In  1857  Dressel  published  at  Leipzig  a 
new  Latin  translation  of  the  Pastor  which  he  found  in 
a MS.  at  Rome,  and  which  differs  from  the  other.  The 
edition  contains  also  a Greek  text  of  the  Iloi/ui/n,  re- 
vised by  Tischendorf.  This  text,  it  is  claimed,  was 
found  in  a convent  of  Mount  Athos  by  Simonides. 
Tischendorf  considers  it,  however,  only  as  a retransla- 
tion from  the  Latin  into  Greek,  and  places  its  origin  in 
the  Middle  Ages.  Tischendorf  himself  discovered,  in 
the  Codex  Sinaiticus , the  Greek  text  of  book  i of  the 
Shepherd,  and  the  first  four  chapters  of  book  ii ; this  is 
given  in  the  recent  edition  of  Dressel,  Patres  Apost. 
(Lips.  1863) ; also  by  Hilgeufeld,  who  has  carefully  ed- 
ited the  Pastor  Ilermce  in  his  Nov.  Test,  extra  Canonem 
I'eceptum  (fasc.  iii,  Lips.  1866).  The  Ante-Nicene  Chris- 
tian Library,  vol.  i (Edinb.  1867),  contains  a new  and 
good  translation  of  the  Shepherd,  following  the  text  of 
Hilgeufeld,  who  makes  use  of  the  text  found  in  the  Si- 
naitic  Codex. 


HERMAS 


205 


HERMENEUTICS 


The  Pastor  is  written  in  the  form  of  a dialogue,  and 
is  divided  into  three  parts:  1 Ffsfoiies ; 2.  Nandala; 

3.  Similitudines.  Hernias,  in  his  childhood,  had  been 
Drought  up  with  a young  slave.  In  after  life,  and  when 
he  was  married,  he  met  her  again,  and  experienced  for 
her  a passion  which,  however  pure  in  itself,  was  yet  for- 
bidden by  the  Church  under  the  circumstances.  Soon 
afterwards  the  young  slave  died.  One  day,  as  Ilermas 
was  wandering  in  the  country",  thinking  of  her,  he  sat 
down  and  fell  asleep.  “During  my  sleep,”  says  he, 
“my  mind  carried  me  away  to  a steep  path,  which  I 
found  great  difficulty  in  ascending  on  account  of  rocks 
and  streams.  Arriving  on  a piece  of  table-land;  I knelt 
down  to  pray;  and  as  I was  praying  the  heavens  open- 
ed, and  I saw  the  young  maiden  I was  wishing  for,  who 
saluted  me  from  the  sky,  saying,  ‘ Good  day,  Hernias.’ 
And  I,  looking  at  her,  answered,  ‘What  art  thou  doing 
there  ?’  ‘ I have  been  called  here,’  she  answered,  ‘ to  de- 
nounce thy  sins  before  the  Lord.’  ‘ What !’  exclaimed  I, 
‘ and  wilt  thou  accuse  me  ?’  * No ; but  listen  to  me  ... ,’  ” 
etc.  The  conversation  goes  on  with  a blending  of  se- 
verity- and  tenderness.  “ Pray-  to  the  Lord,”  says  the 
young  girl,  as  she  disappears  from  his  sight ; “ he  will 
heal  thy-  soul,  and  will  efface  the  sins  of  all  tliyr  house, 
as  he  has  done  those  of  all  the  saints.”  One  cannot 
help  noticing  the  striking  similarity  which  exists  be- 
tween this  Vision  and  the  celebrated  passage  in  the  Bi- 
rina Commedia  where  Beatrice  appears  to  Dante.  This 
vision  is  followed  by  three  others.  They  are  all  invita- 
tions to  penitence,  and  though  in  the  first  it  appears  as 
if  the  invitation  was  especially  directed  to  Hermas,  it 
clearly"  applies  also  to  the  Church  in  general.  This  be- 
comes more  evident  in  the  following  visions. 

The  J I undata  begin  also  with  a vision.  An  angel 
appears  to  Hermas  under  tjie  form  of  n shepherd,  wear- 
ing a white  cloak,  and  bearing  a staff  in  his  hand.  This 
shepherd  is  the  angel  of  penitence,  and  gives  Hermas 
twelve  precepts,  which  embrace  the  rules  of  Christian 
morals.  They  are  giveii  under  the  different  headings : 

1.  De  jide  in  unum  Beam ; 2.  Be  fugiendu  obtrectatione, 
et  eleemosyna  facienda  in  simplicitate ; 3.  Be  fugiendo 
mendacio ; 4.  Be  dimittenda  adnltera ; 5.  Be  tristitia  cor- 
dis et  patientia;  G.  Be  agnoscendis  uniuscttjvsque  hominis 
duobus  geniis  et  utriusqne  inspirationibus ; 7.  Be  Beo  ti- 
mendo  et  damme  non  timendo ; 8.  Beclinandum  est  a malo 
et  focienda  bona ; 9.  Postulandum  a Beo  assidue  et  sine 
hcesitatione ; 10.  Be  animi  tristitia  et  non  eontristando 
Spiritual  Bei,  qui  in  nobis  est;  11.  Spirit  as  et  prophetas 
probari  ex  operibus , et  de  duplici  spiritu;  12.  Be  ditplici 
cnpiditate.  Bei  mandata  non  esse  impossibilia  et  diabo- 
lum  non  metuendum  credent ibus. 

The  Similitudines,  finally",  are  a series  of  parables  and 
allegories.  The  vine,  with  its  rich  fruits  and  flexible 
boughs,  is  used  to  sy-mbolize  the  fruitfulness  of  the 
Church.  The  willow  is  made  the  emblem  of  divine 
law.  This  latter  image  is  made  by  Hermas  the  ground 
of  a most  graceful  allegory-.  Similitudines  1 to  4 are 
short  and  simple  images  or  descriptions ; Simil.  5 to  9 
are  visions  of  the  approaching  completion  of  the  Church, 
and  of  judgment,  as  w ell  as  invitations  to  penitence  on 
that  account;  Simil.  10,  finally-,  is  a sort  of  conclusion 
of  the  whole. 

This  v-ork  wras  perhaps  the  most  popular  book  in  the 
Christian  Church  of  the  2d  and  3d  centimes.  Yet,  while 
it  pleased  the  masses,  it  did  not  always  satisfy-  the 
teachers.  Irenaeus  (adv.  liar,  iv,  3),  Clement  of  Alex- 
andria (*S7rom.i,29),  and  Origen  {Explan.  Epist.  ad  Pom. 
16)  held  it  in  high  estimation.  Eusebius  asserts  {Hist. 
Eccles.  iii,  3)  that  many  other  ecclesiastical  writers  con- 
tested its  authenticity".  Jerome,  after  praising  Hernias 
in  his  Chronicon,  accuses  him  of  foolishness  ( stultitia ) in 
his  Comment,  in  Habacuc  (i,  1),  and  Tertullian  treats 
him  no  better,  designating  the  book  as  apocryphal  in 
Be  Pudicit.  (10).  The  learned  Duguet,  in  his  Confe- 
rences ecclesiastiques  (i,  7),  even  claims  to  find  in  the 
Pastor  the  germ  of  all  heresies  which  troubled  the 
Church  in  the  2d  century-.  Others  among  modem  the- 


! ologians,  and  especially  Mosheim,  have  violently  attack- 
ed the  Pastor,  and  considered  Ilermas  as  an  impostor. 
The  book  “knows  little  of  the  Gospel,  and  less  of  justi- 
fy-ing  faith ; on  the  contrary-,  it  talks  much  of  the  law 
of  Christ  and  of  repentance,  enjoins  fasting  and  volun- 
tary- poverty-,  and  teaches  the  merit,  even  the  superer- 
ogatory- merit,  of  good  w-orks,  and  the  sin-atoning  virtue 
of  marty-rdora”  (Sehaff,  l.  c.).  See  Gratz,  Bisquisitio  in 
Past.  Henna  (Bonn,  1820) ; Ilefelc,  Pair.  A post.  Prole- 
gomena; Ililgenfeld,  A post.  Ydter  (Halle,  1853);  Cave, 
Hist,  literaria;  l'abricius,  Jlibl.  Graca,  vii,  18;  Tille- 
mont,  Memoires  eccles.  vol.  ii,  May-  9th;  Dorn.  Ceillier, 
Hist,  des  A utcurs  sacres  et  eccles.  i,  582;  Mosheim,  Com- 
ment. i,  208-9;  Neander,  Ch.  Hist,  i,  G60;  llase,  Ch.  Hist. 
§ 39  and  Appendix;  lloefer, Nouv. Biog. Generate,  xxiv, 
371 ; Sehaff,  Church  History,  § 121 ; Bunsen,  Christian- 
ity and  Mankind,  i,  182;  E.  Gaab,  Per  Hirt  d.  Ilermas 
(Basel,  180G,8vo) ; Zahn,  Ikr  Hirt  d.  Ilermas  antersucht 
(Gotha,  18G8,  8vo) ; Alzog,  Patrologie,  § 19;  Lipsius,  in 
Zeitschrift  f.  1 Vissensch aftlich e Theologie,  18G5,  heft  3; 
Hilgenfeld,  Ber  Hirt  d.  Hermas  n.  sein  neuester  Eeurbei- 
ter,  in  Zeitsch.f.  lEiss.  Theol.  1869,  heft  2;  Lipsius  (in 
same  journal,  1869,  heft  3),  Die  Polemik  eines  Apologetm 
(a  severe  review  of  Zahn’s  Ilermas). 

Hermeneutse  ( ipprji'tvrat , interpreters'),  officers  in 
the  ancient  Church,  whose  business  it  was  to  render 
one  language  into  another,  as  there  w-as  occasion,  both 
in  reading  the  Scriptures,  and  in  the  homilies  that  were 
made  to  the  people;  an  office  chiefly-  used  in  those 
churches  where  the  people  spoke  different  languages,  as 
in  Palestine,  where  some  spoke  Syriac,  others  Greek ; 
and  in  the  churches  of  Africa,  w-here  some  spoke  Latin 
and  others  Punic.  “So  far  was  the  primitive  Church 
from  encouraging  ignorance,  by-  locking  up  the  Scrip- 
tures in  an  unknown  tongue,  that  she  not  only-  trans- 
lated them  into  all  languages,  but  also  appointed  a stand- 
ing office  of  interpreters,  who  were  viva  voce  to  make 
men  understand  what  w-as  read,  and  not  suffer  them  to 
be  barbarians  in  the  service  of  God,  which  is  a tyranny 
that  was  unknown  to  former  ages.” — Bingham,  Grig. Ec- 
cles. bk.  iii.  ch.  xiii,  § 4. 

Hermeneutics  (from  ipptjvtvw,  to  explain),  the 
technical  or  scientific  name  of  that  branch  of  theology 
which  consists  in  exposition  in  general,  as  distinguished 
from  exegesis  (q.  v.)  in  particidar.  Reserving  for  the 
more  usual  and  equivalent  title  Interpretation  (of 
Scripture)  the  history- and  literature  of  the  subject,  we 
propose  to  give  in  the  present  article  only-  a brief  view 
of  those  principles  or  Canons  which  should  be  observed 
in  the  elucidation  of  the  meaning  of  the  sacred  text. 

I.  The  first  and  most  essential  process  is  to  apply-  the 
natural  and  obvious  principles  of  a careful  and  consci- 
entious exegesis  to  the  passage  and  all  its  terms.  This 
may-  be  called  the  philologico-iiistorical  rule.  It 
embraces  the  following  elements: 

1.  The  diligent  and  discriminative  use  of  an  accurate 
and  judicious  Lexicon. 

2.  The  painstaking  and  constant  reference  to  the  best 
Grammars. 

A well-grounded  knowledge  of  the  language  is  im- 
plied in  these  prescriptions,  yet  the  interpreter  needs  to 
confirm  or  modify  his  judgment  by-  these  independent 
authorities. 

3.  An  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  arehteology  in- 
volved, including  geography-,  chronology-,  and  Oriental 
usages, 

4.  The  context  should  be  carefully-  consulted;  and  the 
general  drift  of  the  argument,  as  well  as  the  author’s 
special  design  in  writing,  must  be  kept  in  mind. 

5.  Especially  is  a cordial  sympathy  with  spiritual  truth 
a prerequisite  in  this  task.  A deep  religious  experience 
has  enlightened  many-  an  otherwise  ill-instructed  mind 
as  to  the  meaning  of  much  of  Holy- Writ. 

II.  Parallel  and  illustrative  passages  from 
the  same  book  or  w riter,  or  (if  these  are  not  to  be  had) 
from  other  parts  of  Scripture,  are  to  be  attentively-  con- 


HERMES 


206  HERMES  TRISMEGISTUS 


sidered,  on  the  principle  that  Scripture  is  its  own  best  in- 
terpreter. This  is  pre-eminently  true  of  types,  meta- 
phors, parables,  prophetical  symbols,  and  other  figura- 
tive representations.  For  this  purpose  “reference  Bi- 
bles” alone  are  not  sufficient:  the  examination  shoidd 
include  an  extensive  comparison  of  doctrine,  theory,  and 
topic,  as  well  as  of  example,  fact,  and  expression. 

III.  When  various  meanings  are  assignable  to  a given 
passage  or  word,  that  shoidd  be  selected  which  is  the 
broadest  in  its  import  and  application;  if  possible,  one 
that  is  inclusive  of  all  or  most  of  the  others.  This 
ride  shoidd  especially  be  observed  in  expounding  the 
language  of  Christ,  of  God  directly,  or  the  more  cardinal 
statements  of  inspiration. 

In  prophetical  and  eschatological  passages  of  Scrip- 
ture especially  must  the  fact  be  borne  in  mind  that  one 
event  or  circumstance  is  often  made  the  type  or  image 
of  another;  the  two  being  generally  related  to  the  same 
essential  principle  as  proximate  and  remote,  or  as  per- 
sonal and  national,  or  as  temporal  and  spiritual  manifes- 
tations of  the  divine  economy.  In  some  cases  this  cor- 
relation runs  through  an  entire  piece  or  book,  e.  g.  the 
Canticles  and  many  of  the  Psalms.  See  Double  Sense 
(of  Scripture). 

IV.  The  consensus  of  the  universal  Church  in  past 
and  present  time  should  have  its  due  influence ; not  as 
being  of  absolute  authority , but  as  an  exponent  of  the 
aggregate  and  deliberate  judgment  of  good  and  unpreju- 
diced men.  This  ivill  guard  the  expositor  against  fan- 
ciful subtleties  and  extravagant  or  dangerous  impres- 
sions. To  this  end  creeds,  confessions,  and  articles  of 
faith  are  useful,  as  well  as  the  study  of  exploded  or  liv- 
ing heresies,  but  more  particularly  a collation  of  the 
views  of  preceding  commentators.  In  weighing  none 
of  these,  however,  is  any  superstitious  reverence  to  be 
indulged,  for  the  word  of  God  itself  is  superior  to  them 
all,  and  it  is  not  only  possible,  but  certain,  that  in  some 
points  they  have  alike  erred,  as  in  many  they  have  fluc- 
tuated or  conflicted  with  each  other.  Even  the  objec- 
tions and  cavils  of  infidels  and  rationalists  should  not  be 
overlooked,  for  “ fas  est  ab  hoste  doeeri.” 

V.  Where  different  interpretations  are  possible,  that 
must  be  selected  which  is  most  consistent  with  common 
sense.  Especially  must  those  be  set  aside  which  lead 
to  a psychological  or  theological  impossibility  or  con- 
tradiction. Such  a principle  we  always  feel  bound  to 
apply  to  the  communication  of  a friend,  and  to  every 
obscure  passage  in  a rational  writer.  Interpreters,  from 
overlooking  this  ride,  have  often  increased  rather  than 
explained  the  difficidties  of  the  sacred  text.  For  exam- 
ple, to  understand  Paid  as  meaning  in  Bom.  ix,  3 that 
he  was  willing  to  forfeit  his  title  to  eternal  bliss,  is  to 
attribute  to  him  a sentiment  incompatible  with  mental 
and  moral  sanity ; and  to  refer  the  preference  in  1 Cor. 
vii,  21  to  a state  of  slavery,  is  to  outrage  the  spontane- 
ous instincts  of  the  human  mind. 

YI.  It  will  sometimes  become  necessary  to  modify  our 
conclusions  as  to  particular  passages  in  consequence  of 
the  discoveries  and  deductions  of  modern  science.  In- 
stances in  point  are  the  theories  respecting  the  creation 
and  deluge,  arising  from  the  progress  of  astronomical 
and  geological  knowledge.  All  truth  is  consistent  with 
itself;  and  although  the  Bible  was  not  given  for  the  pur- 
pose of  determining  scientific  questions,  yet  it  must  not, 
and  need  not  be  so  interpreted  as  to  contradict  the  “ eld- 
er scripture  writ  by  God’s  own  hand”  in  the  volume  of 
nature.  In  like  manner  history  is  often  the  best  expos- 
itor of  prophecy. 

Her'mes  ('E p/ifje,  i.  e.  the  Greek  Mercury  [q.  v.]), 
the  name  of  a man  mentioned'  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Bo- 
mans  as  a disciple  at  Borne  (Bom.  xvi,  14).  A.D.  55. 
“According  to  the  Greeks,”  says  Calmet  {Diet.  s.  v.),  “he 
was  one  of  the  seventy  disciples,  and  afterwards  bishop 
of  Dalmatia.”  His  festival  occurs  in  their  calendar  upon 
April  8 (Neale,  Eastern  Church , ii,  774). — Smith,  s.  v. 

Hermes,  Georg,  a distinguished  modern  Roman- 


ist theologian  and  philosopher.  He  was  born  at  Dreier- 
walde,  near  Minister,  April  22, 1775,  became  gymnasial 
teacher  in  1798,  priest  in  1799,  and  professor  of  theol- 
ogy at  Munster  in  1807.  The  bent  of  his  mind  was 
towards  philosophy,  anil  his  theological  studies  were  all 
through  his  life  conducted  on  philosophical  methods. 
His  first  publication  of  this  class  was  the  Jnnere  I Vahr- 
heit  des  Christenthums  (Miinst.  1805,  8vo).  In  1819  he 
published  his  Philosophische  Einleituny  in  die  Christ- 
Katholische  Theoloyie,  which  passed  to  a second  edition 
in  1831.  In  1819  he  was  appointed  professor  of  theolo- 
gy in  the  new  University  of  Bonn,  where  he  soon  added 
greatly  to  his  reputation,  and  his  system,  before  his 
death,  had  found  its  way  into  most  of  the  Roman  Cath- 
olic schools  of  Prussia.  lie  died  at  Bonn  May  26, 1831. 
His  followers  have  since  been  called  Hermesians.  The 
writings  of  Hermes  published  in  his  lifetime  have  been 
mentioned  above.  After  liis  death  appeared  his  Christ- 
liche-Katholische  Dogmatik  (Miinst.  1834-5, 3 vols.  8vo). 
In  1832  the  Hermesians  established  a journal  at  Cologne 
as  their  organ.  During  the  lifetime  of  Hermes  there  had 
been  many  complaints  of  the  heretical  tendencies  of  his 
system, which,  in  fact,  demanded  philosophy,  rather  than 
faith,  as  the  basis  of  theology.  Hermes  admitted  all  the 
dogmas  of  the  Church,  but  held  that  the  ground  of  be- 
lief in  these  dogmas  could  only  be  laid  in  a philosophical 
proof,  first,  of  a divine  revelation ; and,  secondly,  that 
the  Roman  Church  is  the  medium  of  that  revelation. 
At  Rome  the  question  was  put  into  Perrone’s  hands, 
whose  report  strongly  condemned  Hermes  and  his  doc- 
trines. On  the  26th  of  September,  1835,  a papal  brief 
was  issued  against  them.  The  Hermesians,  however, 
maintained  that  the  doctrines  censured  were  not  con- 
tained in  the  system  of  Hermes.  In  accordance  with 
their  request  to  be  allowed  to  present  in  Rome  a Latin 
translation  of  the  works  of  IJermes,  and  to  plead  their 
orthodoxy,  in  1837  two  of  their  prominent  spokesmen, 
professor  Braun,  of  Bonn,  and  professor  Elvenich,  of 
Breslau,  arrived  in  Rome,  but,  finding  that  they  would 
not  get  an  impartial  hearing,  soon  returned.  In  con- 
sequence of  the  pressure  brought  upon  the  Ilermesi- 
ans  by  the  bishops,  most  of  them  now  gradually  sub- 
mitted ; two  professors  of  the  University  of  Bonn  who 
refused  to  submit,  Braun  and  Achterfeld,  were  in  1845 
forbidden  by  the  archbishop  of  Cologne  to  continue 
their  theological  lectures.  In  1847,  Pius  IX  again  sanc- 
tioned the  condemnatory  brief  of  1835,  and  Hermesian- 
ism  gradually  died  out.  A sketch  of  the  controversy 
from  the  Hermesian  side  may  be  found  in  Elvenich,  Di  r 
Hermesianismus  vnd  sein  Romischer  Gegner  Perrone 
(Breslau,  1844,  8vo).  Per  rone's  refutation  of  Hermes  is 
given  in  Migne’s  Demonstrations  Ecangeliques,  ii,  945  sq. 
See  also  Stupp,  Die  letzfen  Jlermesianer  (Cologne,  1844- 
5);  Hageubaeli,  History  of\&tli  and  19/A  Centuries , tr. 
by  Hurst,  ii,  444;  and  art.  Gunther. 

Hermes  Trismegistus,  or  Mercurtus  (Epyi}c, 
'Ej oprjq  Tpia/d-yiryTog),  the  putative  author  of  a large 
number  of  Greek  works,  many  of  which  are  still  extant. 
The  Greek  Hermes  was  in  the  time  of  Plato  identified 
■with  the  Egyptian  That,  Thoth , or  Theut  (as  it  was  also 
with  the  Alexandrian  Thoyth),  a mythical  personage- 
regarded  as  the  discoverer  of  all  sciences,  especiall}r  as 
the  originator  of  language,  of  the  alphabet,  and  of  the 
art  of  writing ; of  geometry,  arithmetic,  astronomy,  etc. 
In  Egypt,  ali  works  relating  to  religion  or  science  bore 
the  name  of  Thot  or  of  Hermes.  According  to  a passage 
in  Clement  of  Alexandria  {StromA.  vi),  two  of  Hermes’s 
books  contained  the  hymns  of  the  gods  and  rides  of  con- 
duct for  the  kings,  four  related  to  astrology,  etc.  The 
expressions  used  by  Clement  of  Alexandria  imply  that 
there  was  a much  larger  number  of  so-called  Hermetic 
books  than  he  mentions.  As  for  the  36,525  mentioned 
by  Iambliehus  (JDe  Myst.sEgypt.\  a number  which  cor- 
responds to  the  great  sacred  period  of  Egypt,  Goerres 
supposes  it  to  refer  to  verses,  not  to  books.  All  this 
leads  to  the  belief  that  Hermes  Trismegistus  was  but  a 
personification  of  the  Egyptian  priesthood.  According 


HERMES  TRISMEGISTUS  207 


IIERMIAS 


to  Champollion  junior,  Hermes  Trismegistus  was,  like 
Homs,  represented  by  a hawk’s  head.  The  surname  of 
Trismegistus  (thrice  great)  appears  to  have  been  given 
to  him  on  account  of  the  many  discoveries  attributed  to 
him.  Looked  at  in  the  mystical  sense,  Thot,  or  the  Egyp- 
tian Hermes,  was  the  symbol  of  divine  intelligence, 
thought  incarnate,  the  living  word — the  primitive  type 
of  Plato’s  Logos. 

It  appears  clear  that  a certain  number  of  the  books 
bearing  the  name  of  Hermes  Trismegistus  were  trans- 
lated into  Greek  about  the  time  of  the  Ptolemies.  The 
authenticity  of  the  fragments  of  these  translations  which 
have  come  down  to  us  is  more  doubtful.  It  was  the 
time  when  so  many  supposititious  works  of  Orpheus,  Zo- 
roaster, Pythagoras,  etc.,  were  composed.  Leaving  aside 
Augustine’s  testimony  (De  chit  ate  Dei,  1.  viii,  c.  26), 
Champollion  junior  considers  the  books  of  Hermes  Tris- 
megistus as  containing  really  the  old  Egyptian  doctrines, 
of  which  some  traces  can  be  fomid  in  the  hieroglyphics. 
Besides,  a careful  examination  of  these  remaining  frag- 
ments discloses  a theological  system  somewhat  similar 
from  that  of  Plato  in  his  Timeeus ; a doctrine  which  dif- 
fers entirely  from  those  of  all  the  other  Greek  schools, 
and  which  therefore  was  supposed  to  have  been  brought 
by  him  from  Egj'pt,  where  he  had  been  to  consult  with 
the  pri  est  s of  t hat  count  ry.  They  are  wri  tt  en  i n a barbar- 
ous Greek,  in  which  it  is  easy  to  perceive  the  effort  made 
by  translators  to  follow  literally  the  text  of  the  original 
rather  than  the  sense.  Menard,  a recent  translator  of 
Hermes,  views  the  Hermetic  books  “ as  representing  the 
final  aspirations  of  the  higher  Greek  wisdom,  dimly  an- 
ticipating the  fuller  revelation  of  the  Christian  faith ; as 
a mystical  system,  hovering  between  the  negations  of 
Greek  thought  and  the  dogmas  of  the  Christian  faith” 
(Am.  Pres.  Rev.  January,  1869,  p.  195).  The  following 
works,  attributed  to  Hermes,  have  been  published  : Ar'- 
yo£  rkAtiog ; the  Greek  original,  quoted  by  Lactantius 
(Dir.  Instil,  vii,  18),  is  lost,  and  there  remains  only  a Lat- 
in translation  of  it,  attributed  to  Apulcius  of  Madaura, 
and  which  is  entitled  Asclepius,  or  Ilermetis  Trismegisti 
Asclepius,  sice  de  natura  deorum  dialogns.  This  work 
appears  to  have  been  written  shortly  before  the  time  of 
Lactantius,  and  in  Egypt,  probably  at  Alexandria.  It 
is  in  the  form  of  a dialogue  between  Hermes  and  Ascle- 
pius, his  disciple,  on  God,  the  universe,  nature,  etc.  The 
spirit  of  this  work  is  thoroughly  Xeo- Platonic,  and 
though  the  writer  directs  it  against  Christianity,  he  evi- 
dently borrowed  many  Christian  doctrines  to  serve  his 
end.  The  Asdcpius  was  embodied  in  several  editions  of 
Apideius,  and  in  those  of  the  Pcemander  by  Ficinus  and 
Patricias.  These  latter  editions,  and  the  Pcemander  of 
Adrian  Tumebus,  contain  Opot  ’ Ame\i}~iov  irpag  "Ap- 
funva  fiaoiAect,  probably  a translation  bv  the  author  of 
the  preceding  work,  and  treating  also  of  God,  matter, 
and  man.  *Ep//ou  rov  Tpur/uy icrov  Jloipuvdprig  is  an 
extensive  work.  The  title  Tloipdvdpgg,  or  Pcemander , 
from  Troi/tijii,  pastor  or  shepherd,  seems  to  be  imitated 
from  the  Uoipijv  or  Pastor  of  Hermas.  See  Hermas. 
Indeed,  the  latter  has  sometimes  been  considered  as  the 
author  of  the  Pcemander.  It  is  written  in  the  form 
of  a dialogue,  and  coidd  hardly  have  been  composed 
before  the  4tli  century.  It  treats  of  nature,  creation, 
and  God.  These  different  subjects  are  viewed  from  the 
Xeo-Platouic  stand-point,  but  intermingled  with  Chris- 
tian, Jewish,  and  Eastern  notions.  The  Pcemander  was 
at  first  published  as  a Latin  translation  by  Ticinus,  un- 
der  the  title  Mercurii  Trismegisti  Liber  de  Pot  est  ate  et 
Sapient hi  Dei  (Treves,  147 1 , fol. ; often  reprinted  at  Ven- 
ice). The  Greek  text,  with  Ficinus’s  translation,  was 
first  published  by  Adr.  Tumebus  (Paris,  1554, 4to;  latest 
edit.,  with  a commentary,  Cologne,  1680,  fol.).  It  was 
translated  into  French  by  G.  du  Pre'au,  under  the  title 
Deux  livres  de  Mercure  Trismegiste , tun  De  la  Puissance 
et  Sapience  de  Dieu,  Vautre  De.  la  Voloute  de  Dieu  (Paris, 
1557,  8vo);  and  by  others: — 'larpopaGqpaTiKd  ij  tt epi 
KaTat;Ai(Ttwg  vqgovvtmv  Trpoyvuicrrticd  tic  r/~/g  paGrjga- 
TLKijg  hrtGTgfirig  irpog  “Appiova  Ai-yv—Tiov ; this  trea- 


tise, much  less  important  than  the  preceding  one,  gives 
the  means  of  foretelling  the  issue  of  a sickness  by  means 
of  astrology: — De  Revolutionibus  naticitatinn,  another 
treatise  on  astrology  (Basle,  1559,  fol.) : — Aphorismi,  sice 
centum  sententice  astrologicee,  called  also  Centiloquium , 
supposed  to  have  been  written  originally  in  Arabic,  but 
of  which  we  possess  but  the  Latin  translation  (Venice, 
1492,  fol. ; latest  edit.  Ulm,  1672, 12mo) : — Liber  physico- 
medicus  Kinmidum  Kirani,  id  est  regis  Persurum,  vere. 
aureus  gemmeus,  another  astrological  work,  which  is 
known  to  us  only  in  the  Latin  translation  published  by 
Andr.  Privinus,  though  the  Greek  text  is  yet  extant  in 
MS.  at  Madrid.  Some  of  the  books  bearing  the  name 
of  Hermes  Trismegistus  were  evidently  productions  of 
the  Middle  Ages;  these  are  Tradatus  vere  aureus  de 
Lapidis  jrhilosophici  Decreto,  i.  e.  on  the  philosopher’s 
stone  (Latin,  by  D.  Gnosius,  Leipz.  1610,  1613, 8vo;  and 
translated  into  French  by  G.  Joly  and  F.  Ilabert,  Paris, 
1626,  8vo)  ; Tabula  smaragdina,  an  essay  on  the  art  of 
gold-making,  published  in  Latin  (Xuremburg,  1541, 4to; 
Strasb.  1566, 8vo)  ; Hfpi  fSoravwv  \v\werewg,  published 
at  the  end  of  Bother’s  edition  of  L.Lydus’s  De  Mensibus, 
with  notes  by  Biihr;  Ilfpi  otiapGiiv,  a fragment  con- 
sisting of  sixty-six  hexameters,  attributed  by  some  to 
Orpheus : it  is  to  be  found  in  Maittaire’s  Miscellanea 
(London,  1722,  4to),  and  in  Brunck’s  Anedecta,  iii,  127. 
All  the  extant  fragments  of  Hermes  are  given  in  French 
by  Menard,  Hermes  Trismegiste  (2d  edit.  Paris,  1868). 
See  J.  II.  Ursinus,  Exercitciiio  de  Mer curio  Trismegisto , 
etc.  (Xuremb.  1661,  8vo);  Boeser,  De  Ilermete  Trisme- 
gisto litterurum  inventore  (Wittemb.  1686, 4to)  ; Colberg, 
De  libris  antiquitatem  mententibus,  sibgllarvm,  Ilermetis, 
Zoroastris  (Greifswald,  1694, 8vo)  ; G.  W.  Wedel,  De  Ta- 
bula Ilermetis  smaragdina  (Jena,  1704, 4to);  Baumgarten- 
Crusins,  De  Librorum  Hermeticorum  Origine,  etc.  (Jena, 
1827,  4to);  Fabricius,  Bibl.  Grecca,  i,  46,  94;  F.  Iloefer, 
Hist,  de  la  Cliimie,  i,  244;  Pauly,  Reul-Enq/klop. ; Hoe- 
fer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiv,  377;  Smith,  Dictionary 
of  Mythology  and  Biography,  vol.  ii;  Warburton,  Divine 
Legation , i,  442 ; Moslieim,  Commentaries,  i,  290 ; Cud- 
worth,  True  Intellectual  System  of  the  Universe. 

Hermesians.  See  Hermes,  Georg. 

Hermetic  Books.  See  Hermes  Trismegistus. 

Hermians,  a heretical  sect  of  the  2d  century, 
which,  according  to  Augustine,  denied  baptism  by  wa- 
ter on  the  pretence  that  this  was  not  the  kind  of  bap- 
tism instituted  by  Christ;  for  John  the  Baptist,  com- 
paring his  own  baptism  with  that  of  our  Lord,  says, “I 
baptize  you  with  water:  but  he  that  cometh  after  me 
shall  baptize  you  with  the  Holy  Ghost  and  with  fire” 
(Augustine,  De  Ilcer.  c.  59).  They  affirmed  that  the 
souls  of  men  consisted  of  fire  and  spirit,  and  therefore  a 
baptism  of  fire  was  more  suitable  to  their  nature.  Early 
ecclesiastical  writers  are  not  agreed  as  to  what  was 
meant  by  this  expression.  Clemens  Alexandrinus  men- 
tions some  who,  when  they  had  baptized  men  in  water, 
also  made  a mark  on  their  ears  with  fire,  so  joining  to- 
gether baptism  by  water,  and,  as  they  imagined,  bap- 
tism by  fire  (apud  Combefis,  Auctarium,  i,  202).  Oth- 
ers, by  some  deceptive  art  during  baptism,  made  fire  to 
appear  on  the  surface  of  the  water,  and  confirmed  this 
by  a reference  to  some  apocryphal  writing  of  their  own 
invention  called  “The  Preaching  of  Paul  or  Peter,”  in 
which  it  was  said  that,  when  Christ  was  baptized,  fire 
appeared  on  the  water.  See  Bingham,  Grig.  Ecchs.  bk. 
xi,  cli.  ii,  § 3. 

Hermias,  a writer,  supposed  by  some  to  date  from 
the  2d  century.  Xothing  is  known  of  his  life,  but  wf 
possess  under  his  name  a work  entitled  Aiaorp/ioc  rw> 
it-co  <pi\o(T(xp(tJv,  “A  satirizing  of  the  Heathen  Philoso- 
phers.” It  is  written  in  the  form  of  a dialogue  ad- 
dressed to  the  author’s  friends.  Hermias  reviews  the 
opinions  of  the  philosophers  on  nature,  the  universe, 
God,  his  essence,  his  relations  to  the  world,  the  human 
soul,  etc.  He  shows  their  differences  and  contradic- 
tions on  all  these  points,  and  thus  proves  the  insufficien- 


HERMIT 


208 


HERMON 


cy  and  futility  of  all  their  theories.  This  little  work, 
written  in  the  manner  and  somewhat  in  the  style  of 
Lucian,  is  an  interesting  document  for  the  history  of 
ancient  philosophy,  but  has  no  other  merit,  philosoph- 
ical or  theological.  It  was  published,  with  a Latin 
translation  by  Seiler  (Zurich,  1553,  8vo;  1560,  fol),  and 
is  inserted  in  several  collections  of  ecclesiastical  works, 
namely,  in  Morel,  Tabula  compemliosa  (Basle,  1580, 
8vo);*in  several  editions  of  Justin  Martyr;  in  Worth’s 
edition  of  Tatian  (Oxford,  1700, 8 vo) ; in  the  Auctarium 
Bibl.  Patr.  (Paris,  1624,  fol.),  and  in  Gallandii  Biblioth . 
Patr.  J.  C.  Dommerich  published  a separate  edition, 
with  notes  by  H.Wolf,  Gale,  and  Worth  (Halle,  1764, 
8vo).  See  Hoefer,  Xoav.  Biogr.  Generate,  xxiv,  387 ; 
Dupin,  Eccles.  Writers,  2d  cent.;  Donaldson,  History  of 
Christian  Literature,  ii,  179. 

Hermit  (Gr.  eptgiog,  desert),  one  devoted  to  relig- 
ious solitude ; properly,  the  solitude  of  a wilderness.  It 
became,  at  a later  period,  the  name  of  certain  classes  of 
monks.  See  Moxasticism  ; Monk. 

Hermog'enes  (Eopoyh'tjg,  Mercury-born),  a dis- 
ciple of  Asia  Minor,  and  probably  companion  in  labor 
of  the  apostle  Paul ; mentioned,  along  with  Phygellns, 
as  having  abandoned  him  during  his  second  imprison- 
ment at  Rome,  doubtless  from  alarm  at  the  perils  of  the 
connection  (2  Tim.  i,  15).  A.D.  64.  In  the  Roman 
Breviary  (in  Pest.  S.  Jac.  A post.  Pars,  (estiva,  p.  485, 
Milan,  1851)  the  conversion  of  Hermogenes  is  attributed 
to  St.  James  the  Great,  and  in  the  legendary  history  of 
Abdias,  the  so-called  bishop  of  Babylon  (Fabricius,  Cod. 
Apocryph.  X.  T.  p.  517  sq.),  Hermogenes  is  represented 
as  first  practising  magic,  and  converted,  with  Philetns, 
by  the  same  apostle.  Grotius,  apparently  misled  by 
the  circumstance  that  the  historian  or  geographer  Her- 
mogenes,  mentioned  by  the  scholiast  of  Apollonius  Rho- 
dius  (ii,  722,  Frag.  Hist.  Grcec.  Didot.  ed.,  iii,  523),  wrote 
on  primitive  history,  and  incidentally  (?)  speaks  of  Xan- 
nacus  or  Anacus — and  may  therefore  probably  be  the 
same  as  the  Hermogenes  whom  Josephus  mentions  as 
having  treated  on  Jewish  history  (Apion,  i,  23) — sug- 
gests that  he  may  be  the  person  mentioned  by  the  apos- 
tle Paul.  This,  however,  is  not  likely.  Nothing  more 
is  known  of  the  Hermogenes  in  question,  and  he  cannot 
be  identified  either  with  Hermogenes  of  Tarsus,  a histo- 
rian of  the  time  of  Domitian,  who  was  put  to  death  by 
that  emperor  (Sucton.  Domit.  10;  Hoffman,  Lex.  Univ. 
s.  v.;  Alford  on  2 Tim.  i,  15),  nor  with  Hermogenes  the 
painter,  against  whom  Tertullian  wrote  (Smith’s  Diet, 
of  Class.  Biography,  s.  v.),  nor  with  the  saints  of  the 
Byzantine  Church,  commemorated  on  Jan.  24  and  Sept. 
1 (Neale,  Eastern  Church,  ii,  770,  781). — Ivitto,  s.  v. 

Hermogenes,  a heretic  of  the  2d  century.  Our 
knowledge  of  him  is  chiefly  derived  from  a treatise 
against  him  by  Tertullian  (adv.  Jlermogeneni),  and  from 
an  account  in  the  newly-discovered  MS.  of  Hippolytus. 
He  was  living,  probably  in  Africa,  when  Tertullian  wrote 
against  him,  and  was  a painter  by  profession.  Tertul- 
lian charged  that  Hermogenes  was  a believer  in  the 
doctrines  of  the  heathen  philosophers,  and  especially  in 
those  of  the  Stoics,  and  especially  that  he  taught  the 
eternity  of  matter.  Hermogenes  argued  that  God  must 
have  made  the  world  either  out  of  his  own  substance,  or 
out  of  nothing,  or  out  of  pre-existent  matter.  The  first, 
he  thought,  was  inconsistent  with  God’s  immutability; 
the  second  with  the  origin  of  evil;  and  therefore  the 
third  must  be  received  as  true.  “ He  rejected  both  the 
Gnostic  Emanation  doctrine  and  the  Church  doctrine 
of  Creation : the  former  contradicted  the  unchangeable 
nature  of  God,  and  necessitated  attributing  to  him  the 
origin  of  evil;  the  latter  was  contradicted  by  the  nature 
of  this  world ; for  if  the  creation  of  the  perfect  God  had 
been  conditioned  by  nothing,  a perfect  world  must  have 
been  the  result.  Hence  he  believed  that  creation  sup- 
posed something  conditioning,  and  this  he  thought 
must  be  the  Hyle  which  he  received  from  Platonism 
into  connection  with  the  Christian  system.  He  did  not 


think  that  he  gave  up  the  doctrine  of  the  p.ovap\ia  as 
long  as  he  admitted  a riding,  all-powerful  principle,  and 
ascribed  to  God  such  a supremacy  over  the  Hyle.  He 
regarded  the  Hyle  as  altogether  undetermined,  predi- 
cateless, in  which  all  the  contrarieties  that  afterwards 
appeared  in  the  world  were  as  yet  unseparated  and  un- 
developed; neither  motion  nor  rest,  neither  flowing  nor 
standing  still,  but  an  inorganic  confusion.  It  was  the 
receptive,  God  alone  the  creative ; his  formative  agency 
called  forth  from  it  determinate  existence.  But  with 
this  organization  there  was  a residuum  which  withstood 
the  divine  formative  power.  Hence  the  defective  and 
the  offensive  in  nature ; hence  also  evil.  Had  he  been 
logical  he  must  have  admitted  a creation  without  a be- 
ginning; he  could  not  have  regarded  it  as  a single  and 
transitive  act  of  God,  but  as  immanent,  and  resulting 
immediately  from  the  relation  of  God  to  matter.  He 
said  God  was  always  a ruler,  consequently  he  must  al- 
ways have  had  dominion  over  matter”  (Neandcr,  Hist, 
of  Dogmas,  Ryland’s  transl.,  i,  118).  The  aceonnt  in 
Hippolytus,  Kara  7racru>v  aipsoewv  (bk.  xxiv),  agrees, 
in  the  main,  with  that  given  above,  and  adds  that  Her- 
mogenes taught  that  Christ,  after  his  resurrection,  when 
he  “ascended  to  heaven,  leaving  his  body  in  the  sun,  pro- 
ceeded himself  to  his  Father.”  See  Augustine,  De  liar. 
xli;  Tertullian,  adv.  Hermogenem,  passim;  Ritter,  Ge- 
schichte  d.  Philosoj)hie,v,  178;  Neander,  Ch.  Hist.  (Tor- 
rey’s),  i,  568 ; Mosheim,  Comm.  vol.  i ; Lardner,  IForis,  ii, 
203;  viii,  579;  Hagenbaeli,  History  of  Doctrines,  vol.  i, 
§47. 

Her'mon  (Heb.  Chermon',  j’YS'nrt,  according  to  Ge- 
senius,  from  the  Arabic  Channun,  a peak ; Sept.  'A ep- 
pwv),  a mountain  w hich  formed  the  northernmost  boun- 
dary (Josh,  xii,  1)  of  the  country  beyond  the  Jordan 
(Josh,  xi,  17)  which  the  Hebrews  conquered  from  the 
Amorites  (Dent,  iii,  8),  and  w'hich,  therefore,  must  have 
belonged  to  Anti-Libanus  (1  Chron.  v,  23),  as  is,  indeed, 
implied  or  expressed  in  most  of  the  other  passages  in 
W'hich  it  is  named  (Dent,  iv,  48;  Josh,  xi,  3,  17 ; xii,  5; 
xiii,5,  11;  Psa.  lxxxix,  12 ; cxxxiii,3;  Cant.iv,8).  It 
has  two  or  more  summits,  and  is  therefore  spoken  of  in 
the  plur.  (3“'3b*in,  Psa.  xlii,  7 ; Sept.  'Epmaiig,  Engl. 
Vers.  “Hermonites”).  In  Deut.  iii,  9 it  is  said  to  have 
been  called  by  the  Sidonians  Sirion  (jV'nb),  and  by 
the  Amorites  Shenir  ("i^b),  both  of  which  words  sig- 
nify “a  coat  of  mail,”  as  glittering  in  the  sun.  In  Dent, 
iv,  48  it  is  called  Mount  Sion  (ji^b),  meaning  “an 
elevation,”  “ a high  mountain” — which  it  wras  well  enti- 
tled to  be  designated  by  uray  of  excellence,  being  (if  cor- 
rectly identified  wTith  Jcbel  es-Slieik)  by  far  the  highest 
of  all  the  mountains  in  or  near  Palestine.  In  the  later 
books  of  the  Old  Testament,  however  (as  in  1 Chron.  v, 
23;  Sol.  Song,  iv,  8),  Shenir  is  distinguished  from  Her- 
mon  properly  so  called.  1 ’robably  different  summits  or 
parts  of  this  range  bore  different  names,  which  were  ap- 
plied in  a wider  or  narrower  acceptation  at  different 
times  (see  Schwarz,  Palestine,  p.  56).  See  IIivite. 

Ilermon  was  a natural  landmark.  It  could  be  seen 
from  the  “ plains  of  Moab”  beside  the  Dead  Sea,  from 
the  heights  of  Nebo,  from  every  prominent  spot,  in  fact, 
in  Moab,  Gilead,  and  Bashan — a pale  bine,  snow-capped 
peak,  terminating  the  view  on  the  northern  horizon. 
When  the  people  came  to  know  the  country  better — 
when  not  merely  its  great  physical  features,  but  its 
towns  and  villages  became  familiar  to  them,  then  Baal- 
Gad  and  Dan  took  the  place  of  Hermon,  both  of  them 
being  situated  just  at  the  southern  base  of  that  moun- 
tain. Hermon  itself  was  not  embraced  in  the  country 
conquered  by  Moses  and  Joshua;  their  conquests  ex- 
tended only  to  it  (see  Josh,  xi,  17 ; Deut.  xxxiv,  1 ; 1 
Sam.  iii,  20).  Hermon  was  also  the  north-western 
boundary  of  the  old  kingdom  of  Bashan,  as  Salcah  was 
the  south-eastern.  We  read  in  Josh,  xii,  5 that  Og 
“reigned  in  Mount  Hermon,  and  in  Salcah,  and  in  all 
Bashan i.  e.  in  all  Bashan,  from  Hermon  to  Salcah, 


HERMON 


209 


HEROD 


Another  notice  of  Hermon  shows  the  minute  accuracy 
of  the  topography  of  Joshua.  He  makes  “Lebanon  to- 
wards the  sun-rising,”  that  is,  the  range  of  Anti-Leba- 
non, extend  from  Hermon  to  the  entering  into  Ilamath 
(xiii,  5).  Every  Oriental  geographer  now  knows  that 
Hermon  is  the  southern  and  culminating  point  of  this 
range.  The  beauty  and  grandeur  of  Hermon  did  not 
escape  the  attention  of  the  Hebrew  poets.  From  nearly 
every  prominent  point  in  Palestine  the  mountain  is  vis- 
ible, but  it  is  when  we  leave  the  hill-country  of  Samaria 
and  enter  the  plain  of  Esdraelon  that  Hermon  appears 
in  all  its  majesty,  shooting  up  on  the  distant  horizon 
behind  the  graceful  rounded  top  of  Tabor.  It  was  prob- 
ably this  view  that  suggested  to  the  Psalmist  the  words 
“The  north  and  the  south  thou  hast  created  them:  Ta- 
bor and  Hermon  shall  rejoice  in  thy  name”  (lxxxix, 
12).  The  “dew  of  Hermon”  is  once  referred  to  in  a 
passage  which  has  long  been  considered  a geographical 
puzzle — “As  the  dew  of  Hermon,  the  dew  that  descend- 
ed on  the  mountains  of  Zion”  (Psa.  cxxxiii,  3).  Some 
have  thought  that  Zion  (jYlS)  is  used  here  for  Sion 
(j JP’iS),  one  of  the  old  names  of  Hermon  (Deut.  iv,  48), 
but  this  identification  is  unnecessary.  The  snow  on  the 
summit  of  this  mountain  condenses  the  vapors  that  float 
during  the  summer  in  the  higher  regions  of  the  atmos- 
phere, causing  light  clouds  to  hover  around  it,  and 
abundant  dew  to  descend  on  it,  while  the  whole  country 
elsewhere  is  parched,  and  the  whole  heaven  elsewhere 
cloudless.  One  of  its  tops  is  actually  called  Abu-Xedy, 
i.  e.  “father  of  dew”  (Porter,  Ilandb.  ii,  403). 

Since  modern  travellers  have  made  us  acquainted 
with  the  country  beyond  the  Jordan,  no  doubt  has  been 
entertained  that  the  Mount  Ilermon  of  those  texts  is  no 
other  than  the  present  Jebel  es-Sheik,  or  the  Sheik’s 
Mountain,  or,  which  is  equivalent,  Old  Man’s  Mountain, 
a name  it  is  said  to  have  obtained  from  its  fancied  re- 
semblance (being  topped  with  snow,  which  sometimes 
lies  in  lengthened  streaks  upon  its  sloping  ridges)  to  the 
hoary  head  and  beard  of  a venerable  sheik  (Elliot,  i, 
317).  This  Jebel  es-sheik  is  a south-eastern,  and  in  that 
direction  culminating,  branch  of  Anti-Libanus.  Its  top 
is  partially  covered  with  snow  throughout  the  summer, 
and  has  an  elevation  of  937G  feet  (Van  de  Velde,  Me- 
moir, p.  170, 176).  Dr.  Clarke,  who  saw  it  in  the  month 
of  July,  says,  “The  summit  is  so  lofty  that  the  snow  en- 
tirely covered  the  upper  part  of  it,  not  lying  in  patches, 
but  investing  all  the  higher  part  with  that  perfectly 
white  and  smooth  velvet-like  appearance  which  snow 
only  exhibits  when  it  is  very  deep.”  Dr.  Robinson  only 
differs  from  the  preceding  by  the  statement  that  the  snow 
is  perpetual  only  in  the  ravines,  so  that  the  top  presents 
the  appearance  of  radiant  stripes  around  and  below  the 
summit  ( Bib . Researches , iii,  344).  At  his  last  visit  to 
Palestine,  he  observes,  under  date  of  April  9 (new  ed.  of 
Researches,  iii,  48),  that  “the  snow  extended  for  some 
distance  down  the  sides,  while  on  the  peaks  of  Lebanon 
opposite  there  was  none.”  In  August,  1852,  Rev.  J.  L. 
Porter,  of  Damascus,  ascended  Jebel  es-Sheik  from  Ra- 
shev,  and  spent  a night  near  its  summit.  He  describes 
the  highest  peak  as  composed  strictly  of  three  peaks,  so 
near  each  other  as  to  appear  one  from  below.  On  the 
south-easternmost  of  these  peaks  are  some  interesting 
remains,  called  Kulal  Antar,  probably  relics  of  an  an- 
cient Svro-Phcenician  temple,  consisting  of  a circular 
wall  around  a rock  about  15  feet  high,  which  has  a rude 
excavation  upon  it,  and  heaps  of  beveled  stones  adjoin- 
ing it.  The  snow-banks  explain  the  supply  anciently 
made  for  cooling  drinks  in  Tyre  and  Sidon  ( Bibliotheca 
Sac.  Jan.  1854).  The  summit  is  about  9000  feet  above 
the  Mediterranean  (Lieut.Warren,in  the  Quarterly  State- 
ment of  the  “Palestine  Exploration  Fund,”  No.  5,  p.  210, 
where  also  are  a description  and  cut  of  the  ruined  temple). 

In  two  passages  of  Scripture  this  mountain  is  called 
Baal-hermon  bl“3,  Judg.  iii,  3 ; 1 Chron.  v,  23), 

and  the  only  reason  that  can  be  assigned  for  it  is  that 
Baal  was  there  worshipped.  Jerome  says  of  it,  “ Dici- 
IY.-O 


.turqne  in  vertice  ejus  insiyne  templum , quod  ab  ethnicis 
cultui  habetur  e regione  l’aneadis  et  Libani”— reference 
must  here  be  made  to  the  building  whose  mins  are  still 
seen  ( Onom . s.  v.  Ilermon).  It  is  remarkable  that  Iler- 
mon  was  anciently  encompassed  by  a circle  of  temples 
all  facing  the  summit.  Can  it  be  that  this  mountain  was 
the  great  sanctuary'  of  Baal,  and  that  it  was  to  the  old 
Syrians  what  Jerusalem  was  to  tire  Jews,  and  what  Mec- 
ca is  to  the  Moslems  ? (See  Porter,  Handbook  for  Syria 
and  Pal.  p.  454,  457 ; Iieland,  Pahest.  p.  323  sq.)  The 
above  described  ruins  seem  to  confirm  this  conjecture. 
See  Baal-hermon. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  one  of  the  southern  peaks 
of  Hermon  was  the  scene  of  the  Transfiguration.  Our 
Lord  travelled  from  Bcthsaida,  on  the  northern  slope  of 
the  Sea  of  Galilee,  “to  the  coasts  of  Ciesarea-Philippi,” 
where  he  led  his  disciples  “into  a high  mountain  apart, 
and  was  transfigured  before  them ;”  and  afterwards  he  re- 
turned, going  towards  Jerusalem  through  Galilee  (comp. 
Mark  viii,  22-28;  Matt,  xvi,  13;  Mark  ix,  2-13,30-33). 
No  other  mountain  in  Palestine  seems  so  appropriate  to 
the  circumstances  of  that  glorious  scene.  For  many 
centuries  a monkish  tradition  assigned  this  honor  to  Ta- 
bor (Robinson,  Bib.  Res.  ii,  358),  but  it  is  now  restored 
to  its  proper  locality,  and  will  give  additional  celebrity 
to  the  prince  of  Syrian  mountains  (Porter’s  Damascus, 
i,  306). 

The  mention  of  Hermon  along  with  Tabor  ir.  T>C!». 
lxxxix,  12,  led  to  its  being  sought  near  the  latter  moun- 
tain, where,  accordingly,  travellers  and  maps  give  us  a 
“ Little  Hermon.”  But  that  passage,  as  well  as  Psa. 
cxxxiii,  3,  applies  better  to  the  great  mountain  already 
described;  and  in  the  former  it  seems  perfectly  natural 
for  the  Psalmist  to  call  upon  these  mountains,  respect- 
ively the  most  conspicuous  in  the  western  and  eastern 
divisions  of  the  Hebrew  territory,  to  rejoice  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord.  Besides,  we  are  to  consider  that  Jebel  es- 
sheikh  is  seen  from  Mount  Tabor,  and  that  both  togeth- 
er are  visible  from  the  plain  of  Esdraelon.  There  is  no 
reason  to  suppose  that  the  so-called  Little  Ilermon  is  at 
all  mentioned  in  Scripture.  Its  actual  name  is  Jebel 
ed-Duhy;  it  is  a shapeless,  barren,  and  uninteresting 
mass  of  hills,  in  the  north  of  the  valley  of  Jezreel  and 
opposite  Mount  Gilboa  (Robinson,  Researches,  iii,  171). 
— Kitto,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v. 

Her'monite  (Psa.  xliii,  7).  See  Hermon. 

Hernandez.  See  Julian  the  Little. 

Her'od  ('Hpwe^c,  hero-like,  a name  that  appears 
likewise  among  the  Greeks,  Dio.  Cass,  lxxi,  35 ; Philost. 
Soph,  ii,  1,  etc.),  the  name  of  several  persons  of  the  royal 
family  of  Jiukea  in  the  time  of  Christ  and  the  apostles 
(see  Noldius,  De  vita  et  gestis  Ilerodum,  in  Ilavercamp’s 
edit,  of  Josephus ; Reland,  Palcest.  p.  174  sq. ; Jost,  Gesch. 
d.  Israeliten,  i,  1 60  sq.  Other  monographs  are  named  by 
Volbeding,  Index  Progrummattim,  p.  1 6, 77 , and  by  Fiirst, 
Bibliotheca  Judaica,  i,  386;  ii,  127-130.  See  also  De 
Saulcy,  / list,  el'll  erode,  Par.  1867 ; Gtidcr,  Ilerodes^  Bern, 
1869)^  whose  history  is  incidentally  involved  in  that  of 
the  N.  Testament,  but  is  copiously  detailed  by  Josephus; 
notices  of  it  also  occur  in  the  classical  writers,  especially 
Strabo  (xvi,  c.  ii,  16).  The  following  account  is  chiefly 
taken  from  the  Dictionaries  of  Kitto  and  Smith,  s.  v. 

The  history  of  the  Herodian  family  presents  one  side 
of  the  last  development  of  the  Jewish  nation.  The  evils 
which  had  existed  in  the  hierarchy  that  grew  up  after 
the  Return,  found  an  unexpected  embodiment  in  the 
tyranny  of  a foreign  usurper.  Religion  was  adopted  as  a 
policy ; and  the  hellenizing  designs  of  Antiochus  Epiph- 
anes  were  carried  out,  at  least  in  their  spirit,  by  men 
who  professed  to  observe  the  law.  Side  by  side  with 
the  spiritual  “kingdom  of  God”  proclaimed  by  John  the 
Baptist,  and  founded  by  the  Lord,  a kingdom  of  the 
world  was  established,  which  in  its  external  splendor 
recalled  the  traditional  magnificence  of  Solomon.  The 
simultaneous  realization  of  the  two  principles,  national 
and  spiritual,  which  had  long  variously  influenced  the 
Jews,  in  the  establishment  of  a dynasty  and  a chiurch,  ia 


GENEALOGICAL  SCHEME  OF  TIIE  HERODIAN  FAMILY. 


HEROD 


210 


HEROD 


HEROD 


211 


HEROD 


a fact  pregnant  with  instruction.  In  the  fulness  of  time 
a descendant  of  Esau  established  a false  counterpart  of 
the  promised  glories  of  the  Messiah. 

Various  accounts  are  given  of  the  ancestry  of  the 
Ilerods.  The  Jewish  partisans  of  Herod  (Nicolas  Dam- 
ascenus,  ap.  Josephus,  Ant.  xiv,  1, 3)  sought  to  raise  him 
to  the  dignity  of  a descent  from  one  of  the  noble  fami- 
lies which  returned  from  Babylon ; and,  on  the  other 
hand,  early  Christian  writers  represented  his  origin  as 
utterly  mean  and  servile.  Africanus  has  preserved  a 
tradition  (Bouth,  Rell.  Sao\  ii,  235),  on  the  authority  of 
“ the  natural  kinsmen  of  the  Saviour,”  which  makes  An- 
tipater, the  father  of  Herod,  the  son  of  one  Herod,  a 
slave  attached  to  the  service  of  a temple  of  Apollo  at 
Ascalon,  who  was  taken  prisoner  by  Idumiean  robbers, 
and  kept  by  them,  as  his  father  could  not  pay  his  ran- 
som. The  locality  (comp.  Philo,  Leg.  ad  Caium,  § 30), 
no  less  than  the  office,  was  calculated  to  fix  a heavy  re- 
proach upon  the  name  (comp.  Routli,  l.  e.).  This  story 
is  repeated  with  great  inaccuracy  by  Epiphanius  ( Ilcer . 
xx).  Neglecting,  however,  these  exaggerated  state- 
ments of  friends  and  enemies,  it  seems  certain  that  the 
family  was  of  Idumaean  descent  (Josephus,  Ant.  xiv,  1, 
3),  a fact  which  is  indicated  by  the  forms  of  some  of 
the  names  that  were  retained  in  it  (Ewald,  Geschichte, 
iv,  477,  note).  But,  though  aliens  by  race,  the  Herods 
were  Jews  in  faith.  The  Idumieans  had  been  conquered 
and  brought  over  to  Judaism  by  John  Ilyrcanus  (B.C. 
130;  Josephus,  A nt.  xiii,  9, 1) ; and  from  the  time  of  their 
conversion  they  remained  constant  to  their  new  religion, 
looking  upon  Jerusalem  as  their  mother  city,  and  claim- 
ing for  themselves  the  name  of  Jews  (Josephus,  Ant.  xx, 
7,7;  War,  i,  10, 4;  iv,4,4). 

The  general  policy  of  the  whole  Herodian  family, 
though  modified  by  the  personal  characteristics  of  the 
successive  riders,  was  the  same.  It  centred  in  the  en- 
deavor to  found  a great  and  independent  kingdom,  in 
which  the  power  of  Judaism  should  subserve  the  con- 
solidation of  a state.  The  protection  of  Rome  was  in 
the  first  instance  a necessity,  but  the  designs  of  Herod  I 
and  Agrippa  I point  to  an  independent  Eastern  empire 
as  their  end,  and  not  to  a mere  subject  monarchy.  Such 
a consummation  of  the  Jewish  hopes  seems  to  have 
found  some  measure  of  acceptance  at  first  [see  Heko- 
i>xan]  ; and  by  a natural  reaction  the  temporal  domin-  j 
ion  of  the  Herods  opened  the  way  for  the  destruction  of  1 
the  Jewish  nationality.  The  religion  which  was  de- 
graded into  the  instrument  of  unscrupulous  ambition 
lost  its  power  to  quicken  a united  people.  The  high- 
priests  were  appointed  and  deposed  by  Herod  I and  his 
successors  with  such  a reckless  disregard  for  the  charac- 
ter of  their  office  (Jost,  Gesch.  d.  Judenthums,  i,  322,  325, 
421),  that  the  office  itself  was  deprived  of  its  sacred  dig- 
nity (compare  Acts  xxiii,  2 sq.;  Jost,  i,  430,  etc.).  The 
nation  was  divided,  and  amidst  the  conflict  of  sects  a 
universal  faith  arose,  which  more  than  fidfilled  the  no- 
bler hopes  that  found  no  satisfaction  in  the  treacherous 
grandeur  of  a court.  See  the  name  of  each  member  of 
the  family  in  its  order  in  this  Cyclopaedia. 

1.  Hekod  tiie  Great,  as  he  is  usually  surnamed, 
mentioned  in  Matt,  ii,  1-22;  Luke  i,  5;  Acts  xxiii,  35, 
was  the  second  son  of  Antipater  and  Cypros,  an  Arabi- 
an lady  of  noble  descent  (Josephus,  Ant.  xiv,  7, 3).  See 
Axtipater.  In  B.C.  47  Julius  Cresar  made  Antipater 
procurator  of  Judaea,  and  the  latter  divided  his  territo- 
ries among  his  four  sons,  assigning  the  district  of  Gali- 
lee to  Herod  (Josephus,  Ant.  xiv,  0,  3;  War,  i,  10,  4). 
At  the  time  when  he  was  invested  with  the  government 
he  was  fifteen  years  of  age,  according  to  Josephus  ( J nt. 
xiv,  9, 2)  ; but  this  must  be  a mistake.  Herod  died,  aged 
sixty-nine,  in  B.C.  4,  consequently  he  must  have  been 
twenty-six  or  twenty-five  in  the  year  B.C.  47,  when  he 
was  made  governor  of  Galilee  (7 rtvre  Kai  uicocn,  given 
by  Dindorf  in  the  ed.  Didot,  but  no  stated  authority). 
One  of  his  first  acts  was  to  repress  the  brigands  who 
were  infesting  his  provinces,  and  to  put  many  of  their 
leaders  to  death  upon  his  own  authority.  This  was 


made  known  to  Ilyrcanus,  and  Herod  was  summoned 
to  take  his  trial  before  the  Sanhedrim  for  his  deeds  of 
violence.  Herod,  instead  of  appearing  before  the  San- 
hedrim clothed  in  mourning,  came  in  purple,  attended 
by  armed  guards,  and  bearing  in  his  hands  a letter  from 
the  Roman  commander  Sextus  Caesar  for  his  acquittal. 
This  overawed  the  assembly;  but  Sameas,  a just  man 
(Josephus,  Ant.  xiv,  9,  4),  stepped  forward,  and,  boldly 
addressing  the  assembly,  predicted  that,  should  the  of- 
fender escape  punishment,  he  would  live  to  kill  all  those 
who  were  his  judges,  and  would  not  grant  the  pardon 
which  the  assembly  seemed  inclined  to  extend  to  him. 
He,  however,  escaped,  and  took  refuge  with  Sextus  C'a?- 
sar,  who  soon  appointed  him  governor  (orpan/ydf)  of 
Coele-Syria.  He  then  determined  to  march  against  Je- 
rusalem, and  would  have  done  so  had  not  his  father 
Antipater  and  his  family  restrained  him  from  commit- 
ting any  fresh  acts  of  violence.  In  B.C.  44,  after  Cae- 
sar’s  death,  Cassius  took  the  government  of  Syria. 
Herod  and  his  father  Antipater  willingly  assisted  Cas- 
sius in  obtaining  the  taxes  levied  upon  the  Jews  for  the 
support  of  the  troops.  For  this  Ilcrod  was  confirmed 
in  the  government  of  Coele-Syria  (Josephus,  War,  i,  11, 
4).  In  B.C.  41  Antony  came  to  Syria,  and  llerod,  by 
making  him  valuable  presents,  soon  formed  with  him  a 
close  personal  intimacy  (Josephus,  A nt.  xiv,  12, 2).  Ilyr- 
canus, to  whose  beautiful  granddaughter  Mariamne 
Herod  was  betrothed,  induced  Antony  to  make  Herod 
and  his  brother  Phasael  tetrarchs  of  Judaea  (Josephus, 
Ant.  xiv,  13,  1;  War,  i,  12,  5).  The  invasion  of  the 
Parthians,  who  sided  with  Antigonns  the  Asmomean, 
compelled  Herod  to  give  up  Judaea  and  fly  to  Rome. 
Antony  was  then  in  great  power,  and  took  Herod  under 
hi3  protection,  and,  seeing  that  he  might  prove  useful 
to  him,  obtained  a decree  of  the  senate  appointing  him 
king  of  Judaea,  to  the  extinction  of  all  the  living  Asmo- 
mean princes  (Josephus,  Ant.  xiv,  9-14;  War,  i,  10-14; 
Dion  Cass,  xlviii).  These  events  took  place  in  B.C.  40, 
and  Herod,  only  staying  seven  days  at  Rome,  returned 
speedily  to  Jerusalem  within  three  months  from  the 
time  he  had  first  fled. 

It  was  not,  however,  so  easy  for  Herod  to  obtain  pos- 
session of  Jerusalem,  or  to  establish  himself  as  king  of 
Judaea,  as  it  had  been  to  obtain  this  title  from  the  Ro- 
I mans.  The  Jews  still  held  firmly  to  Antigonns  as  the 
representative  of  the  Asmonsean  line,  and  it  was  not  for 
several  years  that  Herod  made  any  material  advance 
whatever.  With  the  assistance  of  the  Romans  Herod 
made  preparations  to  take  Jerusalem.  He  had  endeav- 
ored to  conciliate  the  people  by  marrying  Mariamne, 
thinking  that  by  so  doing  the  attachment  of  the  Jews 
to  the  Asmomean  family  would  be  extended  to  him. 
After  six  months’  siege  the  Romans  entered  the  city 
(B.C.  37),  and,  to  revenge  the  obstinate  resistance  they 
had  received,  began  to  ransack  and  plunder,  and  it  was 
no  easy  task  for  Herod  to  purchase  from  the  conquerors 
the  freedom  from  pillage  of  some  part  of  his  capital. 
Antigonus  was  taken  and  conveyed  to  Antioch,  where, 
having  been  previously  beaten,  he  was  ignorainiously 
executed  with  the  axe  by  the  order  of  Antony,  a mode 
of  treatment  which  the  Romans  had  never  before  used 
to  a king  (Dion  Cass,  lxix,  22;  Josephus,  J nt.  xv,  1,  2). 
Thus  ended  the  government  of  the  Asmomeans,  123 
years  after  it  was  first  set  up  (Josephus,  Ant.  xiv,  16, 4). 
Immediately  on  ascending  the  throne  Ilcrod  put  to 
death  all  the  members  of  the  Sanhedrim,  excepting 
Pollio  and  Sameas  (the  famous  Hillel  and  Shammai  of 
the  Rabbinical  writers),  who  had  predicted  this  result, 
and  also  all  the  adherents  of  Antigonus  who  could  be 
found.  Having  confiscated  their  property,  he  sent  pres- 
ents to  Antony  to  repay  him  for  his  assistance  and  to 
further  secure  his  favor.  He  then  gave  the  office  of 
high-priest,  which  had  become  vacant  by  the  death  of 
Antigonus,  and  the  mutilation  of  Ilyrcanus.  whose  ears 
had  been  cut  off  by  Antigonus  (comp.  Lev.  xxi,  16-24), 
to  an  obscure  priest  from  Babylon  named  Ananel.  At 
this  insult  Alexandra,  the  mother  of  Mariamne  and  Ar- 


HEROD 


212 


HEROD 


istobulus,  to  -whom  the  office  of  higli-priest  belonged  by 
hereditary  succession,  appealed  to  Cleopatra  to  use  her 
powerful  influence  with  Antony,  and  Herod  was  thus 
compelled  to  depose  Ananel,  and  to  elevate  Aristobulus 
to  the  high-pricsthood.  The  increasing  popularity  of 
Aristobulus,  added  to  the  further  intrigues  of  Alexan- 
dra, so  excited  the  jealousy  of  llerod  that  he  caused 
him  to  be  drowned  while  bathing,  and  expressed  great 
sorrow  at  the  accident.  See  Aristobulus.  Alexandra 
again  applied  to  Cleopatra,  who  at  last  persuaded  Anto- 
ny to  summon  Herod  to  Laodicea  to  answer  for  his  con- 
duct. Herod  was  obliged  to  obey,  but  was  dismissed 
with  the  highest  honors  (Josephus,  Ant.xv, 3, 1-8;  comp. 
War,  i,  22,  2).  After  the  defeat  of  Antony  at  Aetium, 
in  B.C.  31,  Herod  had  an  audience  at  Rhodes  with 
Octavius,  who  did  not  think  that  Antony  was  quite 
powerless  while  Herod  continued  his  assistance  to  him 
(Josephus,  War,  i,  20,  1).  Herod  so  conciliated  him 
that  lie  obtained  security  in  his  kingdom  of  Judaea,  to 
which  Octavius  added  Gadara,  Samaria,  and  the  mari- 
time cities  Gaza  and  Joppa.  Shortly  after  the  regions 
of  Trachonitis,  Batanea,  and  Auranitis  were  given  him 
(Josephus,  Ant.  xv,  5,  6,  7 ; 10, 1 ; War,  i,  20, 3, 4 ; comp. 
Tacit.  / list,  v,  9).  Herod’s  domestic  life  was  troubled 
by  a long  series  of  bloodshed.  Hyrcanus,  the  grand- 
father of  his  wife  Mariamne,  was  put  to  death  before  his 
visit  to  Octavius,  and  Mariamne,  to  whom  he  was  pas- 
sionately attached,  fell  a victim  to  his  jealousy  soon 
after  his  return.  See  Hyrcanus  ; Mariamne.  His 
remorse  for  the  deed  is  well  described  by  Josephus,  who 
says  that  Herod  commanded  his  attendants  always  to 
speak  of  her  as  alive  (Ant.  xv,  7, 7 ; War,  i,  22,  5).  In 
B.C.  20,  when  Augustus  visited  Judrea  in  person,  another 
extensive  addition  was  made  to  his  territories.  The 
district  of  Paneas  was  taken  away  from  its  ruler  Zeno- 
dorus  for  leaguing  himself  with  the  Arabs,  and  given  to 
Herod.  In  return,  Herod  adorned  this  place  by  erecting 
a temple,  which  he  dedicated  to  Augustus  (Josephus, 
Ant.  xv,  10,  3;  War,  i,  20,  4;  Dion  Cass,  liv,  9).  Not 
long  .after  this,  the  death  of  his  wife  was  followed  by 
other  atrocities.  Alexander  and  Aristobulus,  the  sons 
of  Mariamne,  were  put  to  death ; and  at  last,  in  B.C.  4, 
Herod  ordered  his  eldest  son,  Antipater,  to  be  killed. 
See  Alexander;  Aristobulus;  Antipater.  Herod’s 
painful  disease  no  doubt  maddened  him  in  his  later 
years,  and  in  anticipation  of  his  own  death  he  gave  or- 
ders that  the  principal  Jews,  whom  he  had  shut  up  in 
the  Hippodrome  at  Jericho,  should  immediately  after 
his  decease  be  put  to  death,  that  mourners  might  not 
be  wanting  at  his  funeral  (Josephus,  Ant.  xvii,  6,  5). 
Near  his  death,  too,  he  must  have  ordered  the  murder  of 
the  infants  at  Bethlehem,  as  recorded  by  Matthew  (ii. 
16-18).  The  number  of  children  in  a village  must  have 
been  very  few,  and  Josephus  has  passed  this  story  over 
unnoticed ; yet  it  is  worth}"  of  remark  that  he  has  given 
an  account  of  a massacre  by  llerod  of  all  the  members 
of  his  family  who  had  consented  to  what  the  Pharisees 
foretold,  viz.  that  Ilcrod’s  government  should  cease,  and 
his  posterity  be  deprived  of  the  kingdom  (Ant.  xvii,  2, 
4).  A confused  account  of  the  massacre  of  the  children 
and  the  murder  of  Antipater  is  given  in  Macrobius : 
“Augustus  cum  andisset  inter  pueros,  quos  in  Syria 
Herodes,  rex  Judseorum,  intra  bimatum  jussit  interflei, 
filium  quoque  ejus  occisum,  ait : Melius  est  Herodis^or- 
cum  (?  vv,  swine)  esse  quam  Jiliuni  (?  viov,  sow)”  (Sat. 
ii,  4).  Macrobius  lived  in  the  5th  century  (c.  A.D.  420), 
and  the  words  intra  bimatum  (a  bimatu  et  infra,  Matt, 
ii,  1 6,  Yulg.)  seem  to  be  borrowed ; the  story,  too,  is 
wrong,  as  Antipater  was  of  age  when  he  was  executed 
(Alford,  ad  loc.).  Macrobius  may  have  made  some  mis- 
take on  account  of  Herod’s  wish  to  destroy  the  heir  to 
the  throne  of  David.  The  language  of  the  evangelist 
leaves  in  complete  uncertainty  the  method  in  which  the 
deed  was  effected  (cnrotSTtiXaQ  avtiXtv').  The  scene  of 
open  and  undisguised  violence  which  has  been  conse- 
crated by  Christian  art  is  wholly  at  variance  with  what 
may  be  supposed  to  have  been  the  historic  reality. 


Herod  was  married  to  no  less  than  ten  wives,  by  most 
of  whom  he  had  children.  He  died  a few  days  before 
the  Passover,  B.C.  4,  his  death-bed  being  the  scene  of 
the  most  awful  agonies  in  mind  and  body.  According 
to  the  custom  of  the  times,  he  made  his  sons  the  heirs  to 
his  kingdom  by  a formal  testament,  leaving  its  ratifica- 
tion to  the  will  of  the  emperor.  Augustus  assenting  to 
its  main  provisions,  Archelaus  became  tetrarcli  of  Ju- 
daea, Samaria,  and  Idumaea;  Philip,  of  Trachonitis  and 
Iturcea;  and  Herod  Antipas,  of  Galilee  and  Peraa.  His 
body  was  conveyed  by  his  son  Archelaus  from  Jericho, 
where  he  died,  to  Ilerodium,  a city  and  fortress  200  sta- 
dia distant,  and  he  was  there  buried  with  great  pomp 
(Josephus,  Ant.  xvii,  8,  2;  War,  i,  38,  9). 

On  the  extirpation  of  the  Asmomean  family,  finding 
that  there  was  then  no  one  -who  could  interfere  with 
him,  Herod  had  introduced  heathenish  customs,  such  as 
plays,  shows,  and  cliariot-racts,  which  the  Jews  con- 
demned as  contrary  to  the  laws  of  Moses  (Josephus,  Ant. 
xv,  8,  1);  and  on  the  completion  of  the  building  of 
Csesarea  he  also  introduced  Olympic  games  and  conse- 
crated them  to  Caesar,  ordering  them  to  be  celebrated  ev- 
ery fifth  year  (Josephus,  A nt.  xv,  9,  6 ; xvi,  5, 1).  With 
regard  to  the  prejudices  of  the  Jews,  Herod  showed  as 
great  contempt  for  public  opinion  as  in  the  execution  of 
his  personal  vengeance.  He  signalized  his  elevation  to 
the  throne  by  offerings  to  the  Capitoline  Jupiter  (Jost, 
Gesch.d.  Judentkums,  i,  318),  and  surrounded  his  person 
by  foreign  mercenaries,  some  of  whom  had  formerly  been 
in  the  service  of  Cleopatra  (Josephus,  A nt.  xv,  7, 3 ; xvii, 
l,  1 ; 8,  3).  His  coins  and  those  of  his  successors  bore 
only  Greek  legends ; and  he  introduced  heathen  games 
even  within  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  (Josephus,  Ant.  xv, 

8,  1).  He  displayed  ostentatiously  his  favor  towards 
foreigners  (Josephus,  Ant.  xvi,  5,  3),  and  oppressed  the 
old  Jewish  aristocracy  (Josephus,  Ant.  xv,  1,  1).  The 
later  Jewish  traditions  describe  him  as  successively  the 
servant  of  the  Asmomeans  and  the  Romans,  and  relate 
that  one  Rabbin  only  survived  the  persecution  which  he 
directed  against  them,  purchasing  his  life  by  the  loss  of 
sight  (Jost,  i,  319,  etc.). 

Notwithstanding  that  he  thus  alienated  his  subjects 
from  him,  he  greatly  improved  his  country  by  the  num- 
ber of  fine  towns  and  magnificent  public  buildings  which 
he  had  erected.  He  built  a temple  at  Samaria,  and  con- 
verted it  into  a Roman  city  under  the  name  of  Sebaste. 
He  also  built  Gala  in  Galilee,  and  Heslibonitis  in  Peraa 
(Josephus,  Ant.  xv,  8,  5),  besides  several  other  towns, 
which  he  called  by  the  names  of  different  members  of 
his  family,  as  Antipatris,  from  the  name  of  his  father 
Antipater,  and  Phasaelis,  in  the  plains  of  Jericho,  after 
his  brother  Phasacl  (Josephus,  A nt,  xvi,  5,  2).  On  many 
other  towns  in  Syria  and  Greece  he  bestowed  money, 
but  his  grandest  undertaking  was  the  rebuilding  of  the 
Temple  at  Jerusalem.  It  was  commenced  in  the  18th 
year  of  his  reign  (B.C.  21),  and  the  work  was  earned  on 
with  such  vigor  that  the  Temple  itself  (root),  i.  e.  the 
Holy  House,  was  finished  in  a year  and  a half  (Josephus, 
A nt.  xv,  11,1,6).  The  cloisters  and  other  buildings  were 
finished  in  eight  years  (Josephus,  Ant.  xv,  11,  5).  Ad- 
ditions and  repairs  were  continually  made,  and  it  was 
not  till  the  reign  of  Herod  Agrippa  II  (c.  A.D.  65)  that 
the  Temple  (to  Ifpor)  was  completed  (Josephus,  A nt.  xx, 

9,  7).  lienee  the  Jews  said  to  our  Lord,  “ Forty  and  six 
years  was  this  Temple  in  building  [t^j/cou o/t C// — and  is 
not  even  yet  completed],  and  wilt  thou  raise  it  up  in 
three  days!”  (John  ii,  20).  This  took  place  in  A.D.  26, 
not  long  after  our  Lord’s  baptism,  who  “ was  about  thirty 
years  of  age”  (Luke  iii,23),and  who  was  born  some  two 
years  before  the  death  of  Herod,  in  B.C.  4,  according  to 
the  true  chronology.  This  beautiful  Temple,  though 
built  in  honor  of  the  God  of  Israel,  did  not  win  the 
hearts  of  the  people,  as  is  proved  by  the  revolt  which 
took  place  shortly  before  Ilerod’s  death,  when  the  Jews 
tore  down  the  golden  eagle  which  he  had  fastened  to 
the  Temple,  and  broke  it  in  pieces  (Josephus,  Antiq. 
xvii,  6,  2,  3). 


HEROD 


213 


HEROD 


The  diversity  of  Herod’s  nature  is  remarkable.  On 
regarding  his  magnificence,  and  the  benefits  he  bestow- 
ed upon  his  people,  one  cannot  deny  that  he  had  a very 
beneficent  disposition;  but  when  we  read  of  his  cruel- 
ties, not  only  to  his  subjects,  but  even  to  his  own  rela- 
tions, one  is  forced  to  allow  that  he  was  brutish  and  a 
stranger  to  humanity  (comp.  Josephus,  Ant.  xvi,  5,  4). 
His  servility  to  Koine  is  amply  shown  by  the  manner  in 
which  he  transgressed  the  customs  of  his  nation  and  set 
aside  many  of  their  laws,  building  cities  and  erecting 
temples  in  foreign  countries,  for  the  Jews  did  not  permit 
him  so  to  do  in  Jadiea,  even  though  they  were  under 
so  tyrannical  a government  as  that  of  Herod,  llis  con- 
fessed apology  was  that  he  was  acting  to  please  Gesar 
and  the  Romans,  and  so  through  all  his  reign  he  was  a 
Jewish  prince  only  in  name,  with  a Hellenistic  disposition 
(comp.  Josephus,  A nt.  xv,  9,  5 ; xix,  7,  3).  It  has  even 
been  supposed  (Jost,  Gesch.  d.  Judenth.  i,  323)  that  the 
rebuilding  of  the  Temple  furnished  him  with  the  oppor- 
tunity of  destroying  the  authentic  collection  of  geneal- 
ogies which  was  of  the  highest  importance  to  the  priest- 
ly families.  Herod,  as  appears  from  his  public  designs, 
affected  the  dignity  of  a second  Solomon,  but  he  joined 
the  license  of  that  monarch  to  his  magnificence ; and  it 
was  saiil  that  the  monument  which  lie  raised  over  the 
royal  tombs  was  due  to  the  fear  which  seized  him  after 
a sacrilegious  attempt  to  rob  them  of  secret  treasures 
(Josephus,  J nt.xvi,  7, 1).  He  maintained  peace  at  home 
during  a long  reign  by  the  vigor  and  timely  generosity 
of  his  administration.  Abroad  he  conciliated  the  good- 
will of  the  Romans  under  circumstances  of  unusual  diffi- 
culty. His  ostentatious  display,  and  even  his  arbitrary 
tyranny,  was  calculated  to  inspire  Orientals  with  awe. 
Hold  and  yet  prudent,  oppressive  and  j*et  profuse,  he 
had  many  of  the  characteristics  which  make  a popular 
hero;  and  the  title  which  may  have  been  first  given  in 
admiration  of  successful  despotism  now  serves  to  bring 
out  in  clearer  contrast  the  terrible  priee  at  which  the 
success  was  purchased. 

Josephus  gives  Herod  I the  surname  of  Great  ('Hpw- 
fo]Q  6 j uiyag).  Ewald  suggests  that  the  title  —elder  is 
only  intended  to  distinguish  him  from  the  younger 
Herod  (Antipas),  and  compares  the  eases  of  'EAvioc  d 
peyag  (Ant.  xviii,  3,  4)  and  Agrippa  the  Great,  in  con- 
tradistinction to  llelcias,  the  keeper  of  the  sacred  treas- 
ure (Ant.  xx,  11,  1),  and  to  Agrippa  II.  The  title 
“Agrippa  the  Great”  is  confirmed  by  coins,  on  which  he 
is  styled  METAS  (Eckhel,  Doct.  Num.  Pet.  lii,  492; 
Akerman,  Num.  Chron.  ix,  23),  and  so,  says  Ewald,  “it  j 
may  similarly  have  been  given  upon  the  coins  of  Her- 
od, and  from  this  the  origin  of  the  surname  may  have 
been  derived”  (Geschichte,  iv,  473,  note).  There  are,  I 
however,  no  coins  of  Herod  I with  the  title  great.  It  is  ! 
best  to  suppose  that  the  title  in  Josephus  is  merely  a ( 
distinguishing  epithet,  and  not  meant  to  express  great-  j 
ness  of  character  or  achievements. 


2.  IIerod  Antipas  (Hpwfyc,  Matt.,  Mark,  Luke; 
A vr'nraQ,  Josephus)  was  the  son  of  Herod  the  Great, 
by  Maltbace,  a Samaritan  (Joseph.  Ant.  xvii,  1,3  ; War, 
i,  28,  4),  His  father  had  already  given  him  “ the  king- 
dom” in  his  first  will,  but  in  the  final  arrangement  left 
him  the  tetrarehy  of  Galilee  and  Pera?a  (Josephus,  Ant. 
xvii,  8,1;  War,  ii,  9, 1 ; Matt.xiv,!;  Lukeiii.l;  iii,19; 
ix,  1 ; Acts  xiii,  1),  which  brought  him  the  yearly  reve- 
nue of  200  talents  (Josephus,  Ant.  xviii,  o,  1).  bn  his 
way  to  Rome  he  visited  his  brother  Philip,  and  eom- 


] mencing  an  intrigue  with  his  wife  Herodias,  daughter 
I of  Aristobulus,  the  son  of  Mariamne,  he  afterwards  in- 
eestuously  married  her.  He  had  previously  been  mar- 
ried to  a daughter  of  Aretas,  king  of  Arabia  Petraa,  who 
] avenged  this  insult  by  invading  his  dominions,  and  de- 
feated him  with  great  loss  (Josephus,  Ant.  xviii,  5,  1). 
An  appeal  to  the  Romans  afforded  the  only  hope  of  safe- 
ty. Aretas  was  haughtily  ordered  by  the  emperor  to 
desist  from  the  prosecution  of  the  war,  and  Herod  ac- 
cordingly escaped  the  expected  overthrow.  Josephus 
says  that  the  opinion  of  the  Jews  was  that  the  defeat 
was  a punishment  for  his  having  imprisoned  John  the 
Baptist  on  account  of  his  popularity,  and  afterwards  put 
him  to  death,  but  does  not  mention  the  reproval  that 
John  gave  him,  nor  that  it  was  at  the  instigation  of 
Herodias  that  he  was  killed,  as  recorded  in  the  Gospels 
(Joseph.  Ant.  xviii,  5, 4;  Matt,  xiv,  1-1 1 ; Mark  vi,  14- 
16;  Luke  iii,  19;  ix,  7-9).  The  evangelists  evidently 
give  the  true  reason,  and  Josephus  the  one  generally  re- 
ceived by  the  people.  In  A.D.  38,  after  the  death  of  Ti- 
berius, he  was  persuaded,  especially  at  the  ambitious  in- 
stigation of  Herodias,  to  go  to  Rome  to  procure  for  him- 
self the  royal  title.  Agrippa,  who  was  high  in  the  favor 
of  Caligula,  and  had  already  received  this  title,  opposed 
this  with  such  success  that  Antipas  was  condemned  to 
perpetual  banishment  at  Lyons,  a city  of  Gaul  (Joseph. 
Ant.  xviii,  7,  2),  and  eventually  died  in  Spain,  whither 
his  wife  Herodias  had  voluntarily  followed  him  ( War, 
ii,  9,  6).  He  is  called  (by  courtesy)  king  by  Matthew 
(xiv,  9)  and  by  Mark  (vi,  14).  See  No.  5. 

Herod  Antipas  was  in  high  favor  with  Tiberius; 
hence  he  gave  the  name  of  Tiberias  to  the  city  he  built 
on  the  lake  of  Gennesareth  (Josephus,  Ant.  xviii,  2,  3). 
He  enlarged  and  improved  several  cities  of  his  domin- 
ions, and  also  built  a wall  about  Sepphoris,  and  round 
Betharamphtha,  which  latter  town  he  named  Julias,  in 
honor  of  the  wife  of  the  emperor  (Josephus,  Ant.  xviii, 
2, 1 ; comp.  War,  ii,  9,  1). 

It  was  before  llerod  Antipas,  who  came  up  to  Jerusa- 
lem to  celebrate  the  Passover  (comp.  Joseph.  Ant.  xviii, 
6,3),  that  our  Lord  was  sent  for  examination  when  Pi- 
late heard  that  he  was  a Galilean,  as  Pilate  had  already 
had  several  disputes  with  the  Galikeans,  and  was  not  at 
this  time  on  very  good  terms  with  Herod  (Luke  xiii,  1 ; 
xxiii,  6-7),  and  “on  the  same  day  Pilate  and  Herod 
were  made  friends  together”  (Luke  xxiii,  12;  comp.  Jo- 
sephus, A nt.  xviii,  3,  2 ; Psa.  lxxxiii.  5).  The  name  of 
Herod  Antipas  is  coupled  with  that  of  Pilate  in  the 
prayer  of  the  apostles  mentioned  in  the  Acts  (iv,  24-30). 
His  personal  character  is  little  touched  upon  by  either 
Josephus  or  the  evangelists,  yet  from  his  consenting  to 
the  death  of  John  the  Baptist  to  gratify  the  malice  of  a 
wicked  woman,  though  for  a time  he  had  “heard  him 
gladly”  (Mark  vi,  20),  we  perceive  his  cowardice,  his 
want  of  spirit,  and  his  fear  of  ridicule.  His  wicked  oath 
was  not  binding  on  him,  for  Herod  was  bound  by  the 
law  of  God  not  to  commit  murder.  He  was  in  any  case 
desirous  to  see  Jesus,  and  “ hoped  to  have  seen  a miracle 
from  him”  (Luke  xxiii,  8).  His  artifice  and  cunning  are 
specially  alluded  to  by  our  Lord,  “ Go  ye  and  tell  that 
fox " (tij  «\w7rm  Tarry,  Luke  xiii.  32).  Coins  of  Her- 
od Antipas  bear  the  title  TETPAPXOY.  See  Antipas. 

3.  Herod  Arcuelaus  (Apx^Xaog,  Matt. ; Josephus; 
'Hjowcbjc,  Dion  Cassius;  coins),  son  of  Herod  the  Great 
and  Malthace,  uterine  and  younger  brother  of  Herod  An- 
tipas, and  called  by  Dion  Cassius  'HpmCpg  UaXaiorpyog 
(lv,  57).  He  was  brought  up  with  his  brother  at  Rome 
(Josephus,  A nt.  xvii,  1,3).  His  father  had  disinherited 
him  in  consequence  of  the  false  accusations  of  his  eldest 
brother  Antipater,  the  son  of  Doris;  but  Herod,  on  mak- 
ing a new  will,  altered  his  mind,  and  gave  him  “the 
kingdom,”  which  had  before  been  left  to  Antipas  (Jose- 
phus, .4  nt.  xvii,  8, 1).  It  was  this  unexpected  arrange- 
ment which  led  to  the  retreat  of  Joseph  to  Galilee  (Matt, 
ii,  22).  He  was  saluted  as  “ king”  by  the  army,  but  re- 
fused to  accept  that  title  till  it  should  be  confirmed  by 
Augustus  (Joseph.  Ant.  xvii,  8,  2, 4 ; lF«r,  i,  I).  Short- 


HEROD 


214 


HEROD 


lv  after  this  a sedition  was  raised  against  him,  which  he 
quelled  by  killing  3000  persons,  and  he  then  set  sail  with 
liis  brother  Antipas  to  Rome  (Josephus,  A nt.  xvii,  9,  2, 
4 ; War,  ii,  2, 3).  Upon  this  the  Jews  sent  an  embassy 
to  Augustus,  to  request  that  they  might  be  allowed  to 
live  according  to  their  own  laws  under  a Roman  gov- 
ernor. Our  Lord  seems  to  allude  to  this  circumstance 
in  the  parable  of  the  nobleman  going  into  a far  coun- 
try to  receive  for  himself  a kingdom  : “ Rut  his  citizens 
bated  him,  and  sent  a message  after  him,  saying,  We 
will  not  have  this  man  to  reign  over  us”  (Luke  xix,  12- 
27).  While  he  was  at  Rome,  Jerusalem  was  under  the 
care  of  Sabinus,  the  Roman  procurator,  and  a qnarrel 
ensued  in  consequence  of  the  manner  hi  which  the  Jews 
were  treated.  Quiet  was  again  established  through  the 
intervention  of  Varus,  the  president  of  Syria,  and  the 
authors  of  the  sedition  were  punished  (Josephus,  Ant. 
xvii,  10).  Augustus,  however,  ratified  the  main  points 
of  Herod’s  will,  and  gave  Archelaus  Judaea,  Samaria,  and 
Idumaea,  with  the  cities  of  Caesarea,  Sebaste,  Joppa,  and 
Jerusalem,  the  title  of  ethnarch,  and  a promise  that  he 
shoidd  have  the  royal  dignity  hereafter  if  he  governed 
virtuously  (Joseph.  Ant.  xvii,  11,4;  War,  ii,  6,3).  Ar- 
chelaus never  really  had  the  title  of  king  QSaoiXtvq ), 
though  at  first  called  so  by  the  people  (Josephus,  Ant. 
xvii,  8, 2),  yet  we  eanuot  object  to  the  word  fiaoiXtvti 
in  Matthew,  for  Archelaus  regarded  himself  as  king  (Jo- 
sephus, War , ii,  1, 1),  and  Josephus  speaks  of  the  prov- 
ince of  Lysanias,  which  was  only  a tetrarehv,  as  fiaai- 
Xtiav  ri)V  Amanov  ( War,  ii,  1 1,  5).  Herod  (Antipas) 
the  tetrarch  is  also  ealletl  6 fiaaCXtvq  (Matt,  xiv,  9; 
Mark  vi,  14).  When  Archelaus  returned  to  Judaea  he 
rebuilt  the  royal  palace  at  Jericho,  and  established  a 
village,  naming  it  after  himself,  Archelais  (Joseph.  Ant. 
xvii,  13,  1).  .Shortly  after  Archelaus’s  return  he  vio- 
lated the  Mosaic  law  by  marrying  Glaphyra,  the  daugh- 
ter of  Archelaus,  king  of  Cappadocia,  and  the  Jews  com- 
plaining again  loudly  of  his  tyranny,  Augustus  summon- 
ed him  to  Rome,  and  finally,  A.D.  6,  sent  him  into  exile 
at  Vienna  in  Gaul,  where  he  probably  died,  and  his  do- 
minions were  attached  to  the  Roman  empire  (Josephus, 
Ant.  xvii,  13,  2;  War,  ii,  7 ; compare  Strabo,  xvi,  765; 
Dion  Cassius,  lv,  25, 27).  Jerome,  however,  relates  that 
he  was  shown  the  tomb  of  Archelaus  near  Bethlehem 
( Onomasticon , s.  v.).  Coins  with  the  title  60NAPXOY 
belong  to  Archelaus.  See  Archelaus. 

4.  Herod  Philip  I (duXiffwoc,  Mark  vi,  17 ; 'Hpw- 
C))Q,  Josephus)  was  the  son  of  Herod  the  Great  by  a 
second  Mariamne,  the  daughter  of  Simon  the  high-priest 
(Josephus,  Ant.  xviii,  5,  4),  and  must  be  distinguished 
from  Philip  the  tetrarch,  No.  6.  He  was  the  husband 
of  Herodias,  by  whom  he  had  a daughter,  Salome.  He- 
rodias,  however,  contrary  to  the  laws  of  her  country,  di- 
vorced herself  from  him,  and  married  her  uncle  Antipas 
[see  Nos.  2 and  5]  (Josephus,  A nt.  xviii,  5, 4 ; Matt,  xiv, 
3;  Mark  vi,  17 ; Luke  iii,  19).  He  was  omitted  in  the 
will  of  Herod  in  consequence  of  the  discovery  that  Ma- 
ria nine  was  conscious  of  the  plots  of  Antipater,  Herod 
the  Great’s  son  by  Doris  (Josephus,  117/7-,  i,  30,  7).  See 
Philip. 

5.  Herodias  ('Hpo'/ftne,  Matt,  xiv,  1-11 ; Mark  vi, 
14-16 ; Luke  iii,  19)  was  the  daughter  of  Aristobulus, 
one  of  the  sons  of  Herod  I by  the  first  Mariamne,  and  of 
Berenice,  the  daughter  of  Salome,  Herod’s  sister,  and 
was  consequently  sister  of  Herod  Agrippa  I (Josephus, 
Ant. xviii, 5,4;  War,  i,  28, 1).  She  was  first  married  to 
her  uncle,  Herod  Philip  I,  the  son  of  Herod  I and  the 
second  Mariamne,  by  whom  she  had  a daughter  Salome, 
probably  the  one  that  danced  and  pleased  Herod  Anti- 
pas, and  who  afterwards  married  her  uncle  Philip  II. 
Herodias  soon  divorced  herself  from  him,  and  married 
Herod  Antipas,  who  was  also  her  unele,  being  the  son  of 
Herod  I and  Malthace,  and  who  agreed,  for  her  sake,  to 
put  away  liis  own  wife,  the  daughter  of  Aretas,  king  of 
Arabia  (Josephus,  Ant.  xviii,  5, 1,  4).  John  the  Baptist 
reproved  her  for  her  erimes  in  thus  living  in  adultery 
and  ineest,  and  she  took  the  first  opportunity  to  cause 


him  to  be  put  to  death,  thus  adding  thereto  the  crime 
of  murder.  Her  marriage  was  milawful  for  three  rea- 
sons : first,  her  former  husband,  Philip,  was  still  alive 
(diaarucra  Zwvtoq,  Josephus,  A nt.  xviii,  5, 4) ; secondly, 
Antipas’s  wife  was  still  alive;  and,  thirdly,  by  her  first 
marriage  with  Philip  she  beeame  the  sister-in-law  of 
Antipas,  who  was  consequently  forbidden  by  the  Jewish 
law  to  marry  his  brother’s  wife  (Lev.  xviii,  16 ; xi,  21 ; 
comp.  Alford  on  Matt,  xiv,  4).  When  Antipas  was  con- 
demned by  Cains  to  perpetual  banishment,  Herodias  was 
offered  a pardon,  and  the  emperor  made  her  a present  of 
money,  telling  her  that  it  was  her  brother  Agrippa  (I) 
who  prevented  her  being  involved  in  the  same  calam- 
ity as  her  husband.  The  best  trait  of  her  character  is 
shown  when,  in  true  Jewish  spirit,  she  refused  this  offer, 
and  voluntarily  ehose  to  share  the  exile  of  her  husband 
[No.  2]  (Josephus,  A nt.  xvii,  7, 2).  See  Herodias. 

6.  Herod  Philip  II  (<b/X<7T7roc,  Luke  and  Josephus) 
was  son  of  Herod  the  Great  and  Cleopatra  of  Jerusalem 
('  lepoaoXv/uinq ),  and  was  with  his  half  brothers  Arche- 
laus and  Antipas  brought  up  at  Rome  (Josephus,  Ant. 
xvii,  1,3,-  War,  i,  28, 4).  He  received  as  his  share  of 
the  empire  the  tetrarcliy  of  Batanea,  Trachonitis,  Au- 
ranitis,  and  certain  parts  about  Jamnia,  with  a revenue 
of  100  talents  (Josephus,  A nt.  xvii,  11,4;  War,  ii,  6, 3). 
He  is  only  mentioned  once  in  the  N.T.  (Luke  iii,  1,  du- 
XiTiTrov  Ttrpap\ovvTog^.  He  was  married  to  Salome, 
the  daughter  of  Herod  Philip  I and  Herodias,  but  left  no 
children  (Joseph.  Ant.  xviii,  5, 4).  lie  reigned  over  his 
dominions  for  37  years  (B.C.  4-A.D.  34),  during  which 
time  he  showed  himself  to  be  a person  of  moderation 
and  quietness  in  the  conduct  of  his  life  and  government 
(Josephus,  A nt.  xviii,  4, 6).  He  built  the  city  of  Paneas 
and  named  it  Ciesarea,  more  commonly  known  as  Caesa- 
rea-I’hilippi  (Matt,  xvi,  13;  Mark  viii,27),  and  also  ad- 
vanced to  the  dignity  of  a city  the  village  Bethsaida, 
ealling  it  by  the  name  of  Julias,  in  honor  of  the  daugh- 
ter of  Augustus.  He  died  at  Julias,  and  was  buried  in 
the  monument  he  had  there  built  (Josephus,  Ant.  xviii, 
2,1;  4,6;  War,  ii,  9, 1).  Leaving  no  children,  his  do- 
minions were  annexed  to  the  Roman  province  of  Syria 
(Josephus,  A nt.  xviii,  5, 6).  Coins  of  Philip  II  bear  the 
title  TETPAPXOY.  See  Philip. 

7.  Herod  Agrippa  I (' Hpibdrje,  Aets;  ’A-ypimraq, 
Josephus)  was  the  son  of  Aristobulus  and  Berenice,  and 
grandson  of  Herod  the  Great  (Josephus,  Ant.  xvii,  1,  2; 
War, i,  28, 1).  He  is  called  “Agrippa  the  Great”  by  Jo- 
sephus (A  nt.  xvii,  2, 2).  A short  time  before  the  death 
of  Herod  the  Great  he  was  living  at  Rome,  and  was 
brought  up  with  Drusus,  the  son  of  Tiberius,  and  with 
Antonia,  the  wife  of  Drusus  (Josephus,  A nt.  xviii,  6, 1). 
He  was  only  one  year  older  than  Claudius,  who  was 
born  in  B.C.  10,  and  they  were  bred  up  together  hi  the 
closest  intimacy.  The  earlier  part  of  liis  life  was  spent 
at  Rome,  where  the  magnifieenee  and  luxury  in  which 
he  indulged  involved  him  so  deeply  in  debt  that  he  was 
compelled  to  fly  from  Rome,  and  betook  himself  to  a 
fortress  at  Malatha,  in  Idunnea.  Through  the  media- 
tion of  his  wife  Cypros  and  his  sister  Herodias,  lie  was 
allowed  to  take  up  his  abode  at  Tiberias,  and  received 
the  rank  of  axlile  m that  city,  with  a small  annuity 
(Joseph.  A nt.  xvi,  6, 2).  But,  having  quarrelled  with  his 
brother-in-law,  he  fled  to  Flaceus,  the  proconsul  of  Syria. 
Soon  afterwards  he  was  convicted,  through  the  informa- 
tion of  liis  brother  Aristobulus,  of  having  received  a 
bribe  from  the  Damascenes,  w'ho  wished  to  purchase  liis 
influence  with  the  proconsul,  and  wras  again  compelled 
to  fly.  He  was  arrested,  as  lie  was  about  to  sail  to  Ita- 
ly, for  a sum  of  money  which  he  owed  to  the  Roman 
treasury,  but  made  his  escape  and  readied  Alexandria, 
where  liis  wife  sueeeeded  in  procuring  a supply  of  mon- 
ey from  Alexander  the  alabarch.  He  then  set  sail,  and 
landed  at  Puteoli.  He  was  favorably  received  by  Ti- 
berius ; but  he  one  day  incautiously  expressed  the  wish 
that  Caius  might  soon  succeed  to  the  throne,  which 
being  reported  to  Tiberius,  he  was  arrested  and  thrown 
into  prison,  where  he  remained  till  the  accession  of  Ca- 


IIEROD 


215 


IIEROD 


ins  in  A.D.  37  (Josephus,  A nt.  xviii,  6, 10).  Caius  short- 
ly after  gave  him  the  tetrarchy  of  Philip,  the  iron  chain 
■with  which  he  had  been  fastened  to  a soldier  being  ex- 
changed for  a gold  one  (Josephus,  Ant.  xviii,  6, 10).  lie 
was  also  invested  with  the  consular  dignity,  and  a league 
was  publicly  made  with  him  by  Claudius.  He  then  start- 
ed to  take  possession  of  his  kingdom,  and  at  Alexan- 
dria was  insulted  by  the  people,  who  dressed  up  an  idiot, 
and  bore  him  in  mock  triumph  through  the  streets  to 
deride  the  new  king  of  the  Jews  (Philo,  in  Flaccum , 6). 
The  jealousy  of  Herod  Antipas  and  his  wife  Herodias 
was  excited  by  the  distinctions  conferred  upon  Agrippa 
by  the  Romans,  and  they  sailed  to  Rome  in  the  hope  of 
supplanting  him  in  the  emperor’s  favor.  Agrippa  was 
aware  of  their  design,  and  anticipated  it  by  a counter- 
charge against  Antipas  of  treasonous  correspondence 
with  the  Parthians.  Antipas  failed  to  answer  the  accu- 
sations, and,  after  his  exile,  Agrippa  received  from  Caius 
the  tetrarchy  of  Galilee  and  Pertea  (Josephus,  Ant.  xviii, 
7,  2);  and  in  A.D.  41,  for  having  greatly  assisted  Clau- 
dius, he  received  his  whole  paternal  kingdom  (Jiultea 
and  Samaria),  and,  in  addition,  the  tetrarchy  of  Lysanias 
II  (comp.  Luke  iii,  1).  Josephus  says  in  one  passage 
that  Caius  gave  him  this  tetrarchy  (.4  nt.  xviii,  G,  10), 
but  afterwards,  in  two  places,  that  Claudius  gave  it  to 
him  (A  nt.  xix,  5,  1;  War,  ii,  11,5).  Caius  probably 
promised  it,  and  Claudius  actually  conferred  it.  Agrip- 
pa now  possessed  the  entire  kingdom  of  Herod  the  Great. 
At  this  time  he  begged  of  Claudius  the  kingdom  of 
Chalcis  for  his  brother  Herod  (Josephus,  Ant.  xix,  5, 1 ; 
War,  ii,  11,  5). 

Agrippa  loved  to  live  at  Jerusalem,  and  was  a strict 
observer  of  the  laws  of  liis  country,  which  will  account 
for  his  persecuting  the  Christians,  who  were  hated  by 
the  Jews  (Josephus,  Ant.  xix,  7, 3).  Thus  influenced  by 
a strong  desire  for  popularity,  rather  than  from  innate 
cruelty,  “he  stretched  forth  Ids  hands  to  vex  certain  of 
the  Church.”  He  put  to  death  James  the  elder,  son  of 
Zebeilee,  and  cast  Peter  into  prison,  no  doubt  with  the 
intention  of  killing  him  also.  This  was  frustrated  by 
his  miraculous  deliverance  from  his  jailers  by  the  angel 
of  the  Lord  (Acts  xii,  1-19).  Agrippa  I,  like  liis  grand- 
father, displayed  great  taste  in  budding,  and  especially 
adorned  the  city  of  Berytus  (Josephus,  Ant.  xix,  7,5). 
The  suspicions  of  Claudius  prevented  him  from  finishing 
the  impregnable  fortifications  with  which  he  had  begun 
to  surround  Jerusalem.  His  friendship  was  courted  by 
many  of  the  neighboring  kings  and  rulers.  In  A.D.  44 
Agrippa  celebrated  games  at  Ccesarea  in  honor  of  the 
emperor,  and  to  make  vows  for  his  safety.  At  this  fes- 
tival a number  of  the  principal  persons,  and  such  as 
were  of  dignity  in  the  province,  attended.  Josephus 
does  not  mention  those  of  Tyre  and  Sidon  as  recorded 
in  the  Acts  (xii,  20).  Though  Agrippa  was  “ highly  dis- 
pleased,” it  does  not  appear  that  any  rupture  worthy  of 
notice  had  taken  place.  On  the  second  day  Agrippa 
appeared  in  the  theatre  in  a garment  interwoven  with 
silver.  On  closing  his  address  to  the  people,  they  sa- 
luted him  as  a god,  for  which  he  did  not  rebuke  them, 
and  he  was  immediately  seized  with  violent  internal 
pains,  and  died  five  days  after  (Josephus,  A nt.  xix,  8, 2). 
This  fuller  account  of  Josephus  agrees  substantially  with 
that  in  the  Acts.  The  silver  dress  (s£  apyvpov  irtTrou}- 
fitvpv  Traaav,  Josephus;  taQrjra  fiaaiXiKpv,  Acts) ; and 
the  disease  (r<p  rijg  yacrrpbg  aXyp/nan  tov  [3iov  fcart- 
( TTpe\l/ev , Joseph.;  ytvopevog  cr/ewXjjKo/Spairoc  i%6\pv%ev. 
Acts).  The  owl  (]3ovf3uJva  etti  t xyoiptou  rivbg),  which 
on  this  occasion  appeared  to  Agrippa  as  the  messenger 
of  ill  tidings  (dyyeXog  tedteouv,  Josephus,  A nt.  xix,  8,  2), 
though  on  a former  one  it  had  appeared  to  him  as  a mes- 
senger of  good  news  (Josephus,  Ant.  xviii,  G,  7),  is  con- 
verted by  Eusebius  (If.  E.  ii,  ch.  10),  who  professes  to 
quote  Josephus,  into  the  angel  of  the  Acts  (t7rdra%ev 
avrov  dyyeXog  K vpiov,  Acts  xii,  23.  For  an  explana- 
tion of  the  confusion,  compare  Eusebius,  l.  c.,  ed.  Hei- 
nichen,  Excurs.  ii,  vol.  iii,  p.  556;  Alford,  ad  loc.).  See 
Agrippa. 


8.  Herod  Agrippa  II  (Aypimrag,  Acts ; Josephus) 
was  the  son  of  Herod  Agrippa  I and  Cypros  ( War,  ii,  1 1 , 
G).  At  the  time  of  his  father’s  death  (A.D.  44)  he  was 
only  seventeen  years  of  age,  and  the  emperor  Claudius, 
thinking  him  too  young  to  govern  the  kingdom,  sent 
Cuspius  Fadus  as  procurator,  and  thus  made  it  again  a 
Roman  province  (Josephus,  A nt.  xix,  9, 2 ; Tacit.  Hist,  v, 
9).  After  the  death  of  his  uncle  Ilerod  in  A.D.  48,  Clau- 
dius bestowed  upon  him  the  small  kingdom  of  Chalcis 
(Josephus,  Ant.  xx,  5,  2;  War,  ii,  12, 1),  and  four  years 
after  took  it  away  from  him,  giving  him  instead  the 
tetrarchies  of  Philip  and  Lysanias  (Josephus,  Ant.  xx,  7, 
1 ; War,  ii,  12, 8)  with  the  title  of  king  (Acts  xxv,  13; 
xxvi,2,  7).  In  A.D.  55  Nero  gave  him  the  cities  of  Ti- 
berias and  Taricheie  in  Galilee,  and  Julias,  a city  of  Pe- 
rea, with  fourteen  villages  near  it  (Josephus,  Ant.  xx,  8, 
4 ; comp.  War,  ii,  13,  2). 

Agrippa  II  exhibited  the  Herodian  partiality  for  build- 
ing. He  much  enlarged  the  city  of  Caesarea  Philippi, 
and  in  honor  of  Nero  called  it  Neronias.  He  also  sup- 
plied large  sums  of  money  towards  beautifying  Jerusa- 
lem (which  he  encircled  with  the  “ third  wall”)  and  Bery- 
tus, transferring  almost  everything  that  was  ornamental 
from  his  own  kingdom  to  this  latter  place.  These  acts 
rendered  him  most  unpopular  (Josephus,  A nt.  xx,  9, 4). 
In  A.D.  60  king  Agrippa  and  Berenice  (q.  v.)  his  sister, 
concerning  the  nature  of  whose  equivocal  intercourse 
with  each  other  there  had  been  much  grave  conversa- 
tion (Juvenal,  Sat.  vi,  155  sq.),  and  who,  in  consequence, 
persuaded  Polemo,  king  of  Cilicia,  to  marry  her  (Jose- 
phus, Ant. xx, 7, 3),  came  to  Cassarea  (Acts  xxv,  13).  It 
was  before  him  and  his  sister  that  the  apostle  Paul  made 
his  defence,  and  somewhat  (tv  oXiytp)  “ persuaded  him 
to  be  a Christian.”  Agrippa  seems  to  have  been  inti- 
mate writh  Festus  (Josephus,  A nt.  xx,  7, 11),  and  it  was 
natural  that  the  Roman  governor  should  avail  himself 
of  his  judgment  on  a question  of  what  seemed  to  be  Jew- 
ish law  (Acts  xxv,  18  sq.,  26;  comp.  Josephus,  A nt.xx, 
8,  7).  The  “pomp”  ( iroXX) ) <pavTa<ria ) with  which  the 
king  came  into  the  audience  chamber  (Acts  xxv,  23) 
was  accordant  with  his  general  bearing. 

The  famous  speech  which  Agrippa  made  to  the  Jews, 
to  dissuade  them  from  waging  war  with  the  Romans,  is 
recorded  by  Josephus  {War,  ii,  16,  4).  At  the  com- 
mencement of  the  war  he  sided  with  the  Romans,  and 
was  wounded  by  a sling-stone  at  the  siege  of  Gamala 
(Josephus,  War,  iv,  1, 3).  After  the  fall  of  Jerusalem  he 
retired  with  his  sister  Berenice  to  Rome,  and  there  died 
in  the  seventieth  year  of  his  age,  and  in  the  third  year 
of  Trajan  (A.D.  100).  He  was  on  intimate  terms  with 
Josephus,  who  gives  two  of  liis  letters  (Life,  65),  and 
he  was  the  last  Jewish  prince  of  the  Herodian  line. 

As  regards  his  coins,  Eckhel  gives  two  with  the  head 
of  Nero,  one  with  the  legend  EIII  EA2IAE  ArPinnA 
NEPQNIE,  confirming  the  account  of  Josephus  as  re- 
gards the  city  of  Ctesarea-Philippi,  and  the  other  bear- 
ing the  prienomen  of  J I arcus,  which  he  may  have  re- 
ceived on  account  of  his  family  being  indebted  to  the 
triumvir  Antony,  or  else,  as  Eckhel  thinks,  more  likely 
from  Marcus  Agrippa  (Eckhel,  Doct.  Num.  Vet.  iii,  493, 
494 ; comp.  Akerman,  Num.  Chron.  ix,  42).  There  are 
other  coins  with  the  heads  of  Vespasian,  Titus,  and  Do- 
mitian.  See  Money.  Compare  Agrippa. 


Coin  of  Herod  Agrippa  II,  with  the  Head  of  Titus,  and  a 
figure  of  Victory. 


9.  Berenice  (q.  v.). 

10.  Drusilla  (q.v.). 


HERODIAN 


216 


HERODIAS 


He'rodian  (only  in  the  plur.  'Hpwciavo'i),  the  des- 
ignation of  a class  of  Jews  that  existed  in  the  time  of 
Jesus  Christ,  evidently,  as  the  name  imports,  partisans 
of  Herod,  but  whether  of  a political  or  religious  descrip- 
tion it  is  not  easy,  for  want  of  materials,  to  determine. 
The  passages  of  the  New  Testament  which  refer  to  them 
are  the  following:  Mark  iii,  6;  xii,  13;  Matt,  xxii,  16; 
Luke  xx,  20.  From  these  it  appears  that  the  ecclesias- 
tical authorities  of  Judaia  held  a council  against  our 
Saviour,  and,  associating  with  themselves  the  Herocli- 
ans,  sent  an  embassy  to  him  with  the  express  but  covert 
design  of  ensnaring  him  in  his  speech,  that  thus  they 
might  compass  his  destruction,  by  embroiling  him.  But 
what  additional  difficulty  did  the  Herodians  bring? 
Herod  Antipas  was  now  tetrarch  of  Galilee  and  Per;ea, 
which  was  the  only  inheritance  he  received  from  his 
father,  Herod  the  Great.  As  tetrarch  of  Galilee  he  was 
specially  the  ruler  of  Jesus,  whose  home  was  in  that 
province.  The  Herodians,  then,  may  have  been  sub- 
jects of  Herod,  Galilaeans,  whose  evidence  the  priests 
were  desirous  of  procuring,  because  theirs  would  be  the 
evidence  of  fellow-countrymen,  and  of  special  force  with 
Antipas  as  being  that  of  his  own  immediate  subjects 
(Luke  xxiii,  7).  Herod’s  relations  with  Rome  were  in 
an  unsafe  condition.  He  was  a weak  prince,  given  to 
ease  and  luxury,  and  his  wife’s  ambition  conspired  with 
his  own  desires  to  make  him  strive  to  obtain  from  the 
emperor  Caligula  the  title  of  £ing.  For  this  purpose  he 
took  a journey  to  Rome,  but  he  was  banished  to  Lyons, 
in  Gaul.  The  Herodians  may  have  been  favorers  of  his 
pretensions;  if  so,  they  would  be  partial  hearers,  and 
eager  witnesses  against  Jesus  before  the  Roman  tribu- 
nal. It  would  be  a great  service  to  the  Romans  to  be 
the  means  of  enabling  them  to  get  rid  of  one  who  as- 
pired to  be  king  of  the  Jews.  It  would  equally  gratify 
their  own  lord  should  the  Herodians  give  effectual  aid 
in  putting  a period  to  the  mysterious  yet  formidable 
claims  of  a rival  claimant  of  the  crown.  If  the  Herodi- 
ans were  a Galilean  political  party  who  were  eager  to 
procure  from  Rome  the  honor  of  royalty  for  Herod 
(Mark  vi,  14,  the  name  of  king  is  merely  as  of  courtesy), 
they  were  chosen  as  associates  by  the  Sanhedrim  with 
especial  propriety.  This  idea  is  confirmed  by  Jose- 
phus’s mention  of  a party  as  “the  partisans  of  Herod” 
(ol  rti  'Hpwcou  <pavo\WTtc,  Ant.  xiv,  15, 10).  The  dep- 
utation were  to  “feign  themselves  just  men,”  that  is, 
men  whose  sympathies  were  entirely  Jewish,  and,  as 
such,  anti-heathen : they  were  to  intimate  their  dislike 
of  paying  tribute,  as  being  an  acknowledgment  of  a for- 
eign yoke ; and  by  flattering  Jesus,  as  one  who  loved 
truth,  feared  no  man,  and  would  say  what  he  thought, 
they  meant  to  inveigle  him  into  a condemnation  of  the 
practice.  In  order  to  carry  these  base  and  hypocritical 
designs  into  effect,  the  Herodians  were  appropriately 
associated  with  the  Pharisees;  for  as  the  latter  were 
the  recognised  conservators  of  Judaism,  so  the  former 
were  friends  of  the  aggrandizement  of  a native  as  against 
a foreign  prince.  (Comp.  Fritzsclie  and  Walch,  ad  loc. 
Other  hypotheses  may  be  found  in  Paulus  on  the  pas- 
sage iu  Matt.;  in  Wolff,  Curat  Phil,  i,  311  sq.;  see  also 
Koclier,  Analect.  in  loc.  Matt. ; Zorn,  Jlist.jisd.  Jud.  p. 
127 ; Otho,  Lex.  Rahb.  p.  275.  Monographs  on  this  sub- 
ject are  those  of  Stench,  Piss,  de  Herod.  Lund.  1706; 
Floder,  Piss,  de  Ilerod.  Upsal,  1764;  Schmid,  Epist.  de 
Herod.  Lipsia?,  1763;  Leuschner,  Pe  Secta  J/erodianor. 
Hirscliberg,  1751 ; Stollberg,  De  Herodianis,  Yiteb.  1666 ; 
Jensius,  id.  Jen.  1688.) — Kitto.  See  Sects,  Jewish. 

Hero'dias  (Howomo,  a female  patronymic  from 
'Hpweb/f.  on  patronymics  and  gentilic  names  in  lap, 
see  Matthias,  Gk.  Gram.  § 101  and  103),  the  name  of  a 
woman  of  notoriety  in  the  N.  T..  daughter  of  Aristobu- 
lus,  one  of  the  sons  of.Mariamne  and  Herod  the  Great, 
and  consequently  sister  of  Agrippa  I.  She  first  married 
Ilerod,  surnamed  Philip,  another  of  the  sons  of  Mari- 
amne  and  the  first  Herod  (Ant.  xviii,  5,  4;  comp,  War, 
i,  29,  4),  and  therefore  her  full  uncle;  then  she  eloped 
from  him,  during  his  lifetime  (ibid.),  to  marry  Herod 


Antipas,  her  step-uncle,  who  had  long  been  married  to, 
and  was  still  living  with,  the  daughter  of  /Eneas  or 
Aretas — his  assumed  name — king  of  Arabia  (Ant.  xvii, 
9,  4).  Thus  she  left  her  husband,  who  was  still  alive, 
to  connect  herself  with  a man  whose  wife  was  still  alive. 
Her  paramour  was,  indeed,  less  of  a blood  relation  than 
her  original  husband ; but,  being  likewise  the  half- 
brother  of  that  husband,  he  was  already  connected  with 
her  by  affinity — so  close  that  there  was  only  one  ease 
contemplated  in  the  law  of  Moses  where  it  could  be  set 
aside,  namely,  when  the  married  brother  had  died  child- 
less (Lev.  xviii,  16,  and  xxii,  21,  and  for  the  exception 
Deut.  xxv,  5 sq.).  Now  Herodias  had  already  had  one 
child — Salome  (the  daughter  whose  dancing  is  men- 
tioned in  the  Gospels) — by  Philip  (A?it.  xviii,  5, 4),  and, 
as  he  was  still  alive,  might  have  had  more.  Well  there- 
fore may  she  be  charged  by  Josephus  with  the  inten- 
tion of  confounding  her  country's  institutions  (Ant.  xviii, 
5, 4) ; and  well  may  John  the  Baptist  have  remonstrated 
against  the  enormity  of  such  a connection  with  the  te- 
trareli,  whose  conscience  would  certainly  seem  to  have 
been  a less  hardened  one  (Matt,  xiv,  9 says  lie  “was 
sorry;”  Mark  vi,  20  that  he  “feared”  John,  and  “heard 
him  gladly”).  A.D.  28.  The  consequences  both  of  the 
crime  and  of  the  reproof  which  it  incurred  are  well 
knowm.  Aretas  made  Avar  upon  Herod  for  the  injury 
done  to  his  daughter,  and  routed  him  Avitli  the  loss  of 
his  Avliole  army  (Ant.  xxiii,  5, 1).  The  head  of  John 
the  Baptist  Avas  granted  at  the  suggestion  of  Herodias 
(Matt.  xiAr,  8-11 ; Mark  vi,  24-28).  According  to  Jose- 
phus. the  execution  took  place  in  a fortress  called  Ma- 
chaerus,  on  the  frontier  between  the  dominions  of  Aretas 
and  Herod;  according  to  Pliny  (v,  15),  looking  doAvn 
upon  the  Dead  Sea  from  the  south  (compare  Robinson,  i, 
570,  note).  It  was  to  the  iniquity  of  this  act,  rather 
than  to  the  immorality  of  that  illicit  connection,  that, 
the  historian  says,  some  of  the  JeAvs  attributed  the  de- 
feat of  Herod.  In  the  closing  scene  of  her  career,  in- 
deed, Herodias  exhibited  considerable  magnanimity,  as 
she  preferred  going  Avitli  Antipas  to  Lugdunum,  and 
there  sharing  his  exile  and  reA*erses,  till  death  ended 
them,  to  the  remaining  Avith  her  brother  Agrippa  I,  and 
partaking  of  his  elevation  (.4  nt.  xviii,  7, 2).  This  toAvn 
is  probably  Lugdunum  Convenarum,  a toAvn  of  Gaul, 
situated  on  the  right  bank  of  the  Garonne,  at  the  foot 
of  the  Pyrenees,  uoav  St.  Bertrand  de  Comminges  (Mur- 
ray, Handbook  of  France,  p.  314) ; Eusebius,  II.  E.  i,  11, 
says  Vienne,  confounding  Antipas  Avith  Archelans.  Bur- 
ton on  Matt.  xiAr,  3,  Alford,  and  moderns  in  general,  Ly- 
ons. In  Josephus  ( I Par,  ii,  9,  6),  Antipas  is  said  to  lia\Te 
died  in  Spain — apparently,  from  the  context,  the  land 
of  his  exile.  A toAvn  on  the  frontiers,  therefore,  like  the 
above,  Avonld  satisfy  both  passages.  See  Herod. 

There  are  feAV  episodes  in  the  Avliole  range  of  the  New 
Testament  more  suggestive  to  the  commentator  than 
this  one  scene  in  the  life  of  Herodias. 

1.  It  exhibits  one  of  the  most  remarkable  of  the  un- 
designed coincidences  betAveen  the  N.  T.  and  Josephus; 
that  there  are  some  discrepancies  in  the  two  accounts 
only  enhances  their  A'alue.  More  than  this,  it  has  led 
the  historian  into  a brief  digression  upon  the  life,  death, 
and  character  of  the  Baptist,  Avhicli  speaks  volumes  in 
faA-or  of  the  genuineness  of  that  still  more  celebrated 
passage  in  Avhich  he  speaks  of  “Jesus,”  that  “ Aviso  man, 
if  man  he  may  be  called”  (.4  nt.  xA'iii,  3, 3 ; comp,  xx,  9, 
1,  unhesitatingly  quoted  as  genuine  by  Eusebius,  Ilist. 
Eccl.  i,  11).  See  John  the  Baptist. 

2.  It  has  been  Avarmly  debated  whether  it  Avas  the 
adultery  or  the  incestuous  connection  that  dreAV  doAA'n 
the  reproof  of  the  Baptist.  It  has  already  been  sIioaati 
that,  either  Avav,  the  offence  merited  condemnaticn  upon 
more  grounds  than  one. 

3.  The  birthday  feast  is  another  undesigned  coinci- 
dence betiveen  Scripture  and  profane  history.  The 
Jews  abhorred  keeping  birthdays  as  a pagan  custom 
(Bland  on  Matt.  xiv,  6).  On  the  other  hand,  it  Avas 
usual  with  the  Egyptians  (Gen.  xl,  20 ; comp.  Josephu^ 


HERODION 


217 


IIERON 


Ant.  xii,  4,  7),  with  the  Persians  (Herod,  i,  183),  with 
the  Greeks,  even  in  the  case  of  the  dead,  whence  the 
Christian  custom  of  keeping  anniversaries  of  the  mar- 
tyrs (Biilir  ad  Herod,  iv,  26),  and  with  the  Romans 
(Pere.  Sat.  ii,  1-3).  Now  the  Herods  may  be  said  to 
have  gone  beyond  Rome  in  the  observance  of  all  that 
was  Roman.  Herod  the  Great  kept  the  day  of  his  ac- 
cession ; Antipas — as  we  read  here — and  Agrippa  I,  as 
Josephus  tells  us  (Ant.  xix,  7,  1),  their  birthday,  with 
such  magnificence  that  the  “birthdays  of  llerod”  (Ile- 
rodis  dies)  had  passed  into  a proverb  when  Persius  wrote 
(Sat.  v,  180).  See  Birthday. 

4.  Yet  dancing,  on  these  festive  occasions,  was  com- 
mon to  both  Jew  and  Gentile,  and  was  practised  in  the 
same  way : youths  and  virgins,  singly,  or  separated  into 
two  bands,  but  never  intermingled,  danced  to  do  honor 
to  their  deity,  their  hero,  or  to  the  day  of  their  solem- 
nity. Miriam  (Exod.  xv,  20),  the  daughter  of  Jephthali 
(Judg.  xi,  34),  and  David  (2  Sam.  vi,  14)  are  familiar  in- 
stances in  Holy  Writ : the  “ Carmen  Steculare”  of  Hor- 
ace, to  cpiote  no  more,  points  to  the  same  custom  amongst 
Greeks  and  Romans.  It  is  plainly  owing  to  the  eleva- 
tion of  woman  in  the  social  scale  that  dancing  in  pairs 
(still  unknown  to  the  East)  has  come  into  fashion.  See 
Dance. 

5.  The  rash  oath  of  Herod,  like  that  of  Jephthali  in 
the  O.  T.,  has  afforded  ample  discussion  to  casuists.  It 
is  now  ruled  that  all  such  oaths,  where  there  is  no  reser- 
vation, expressed  or  implied,  in  favor  of  the  laws  of  God 
or  man,  are  illicit  and  without  force.  So  Solomon  had 
long  since  decided  (1  Kings  ii,  20-24 ; see  Sanderson,  De 
Juram.  Oblig.  P raded.  iii,  16). — Smith,  s.  v.  See  Oath. 

Hero'dion  ('HpwthW,  a deriv.  from  Uerod ),  a 
Christian  at  Rome  to  whom  Paul  sent  a salutation  as 
his  kinsman  (Rom.  xvi,  11).  A.D.  55.  According  to 
Hippolytus,  he  became  bishop  of  Tarsus,  but  according 
to  others,  of  Patra. 

Herodium  ('Howcftoi'),  the  name  of  a fortress  (Jo- 
sephus) or  town  (Pliny),  built  on  a conspicuous  spot  by 
Herod  the  Great  (Reland,  Palcest.  p.  820),  probably  the 
site  anciently  occupied  by  Betii-iiaccekem  (Jer.  vi,  1 ; 
Neh.  iii,  14),  which  the  authority  of  Jerome  has  led  some 
modern  travellers  to  identify  with  the  well-known  emi- 
nence called  by  the  natives  Jebel  el-Fureidis , and  by  Eu- 
ropeans “ the  Frank  Mountain.”  If  this  identity  be  cor- 
rect, the  site  has  been  the  scene  of  many  a remarkable 
change.  Two  great  kings,  in  different  ages  and  differ- 
ent ways,  probably  adorned  it  with  magnificent  works. 
From  their  lofty  city  the  old  inhabitants  must  have 
seen  stretched  before  them,  up  the  green  vale  of  Urtas, 
the  beautiful  gardens  and  fountains  of  king  Solomon, 
which  suggested  to  the  royal  poet  some  of  the  exquisite 
imagery  of  the  Canticles ; and  nearly  a thousand  years 
later,  llerod  the  Great  erected,  probably  on  this  very 
hill  of  Beth-haccerem,  “ a fortress  with  its  round  tow- 
ers, and  in  it  royal  apartments  of  great  strength  and 
splendor”  (Josephus,  A at.  xv,  9,  4),  making  it  serve  as 
an  acropolis  amidst  a mass  of  other  buildings  and  pal- 
aces at  the  foot  of  the  hill  (War,  i,  xxi,  20).  To  this 
city,  called  after  him  Ilerodium,  the  Idumtean  tyrant 
was  brought  for  burial  from  Jericho,  where  he  died  (Ant. 
xvii,  8, 3).  The  locality  still  yields  its  evidence  of  both 
these  eras.  Solomon’s  reservoirs  yet  remain  (Stanley, 
p.  165),  and  the  present  state  of  “ the  Frank  Mountain” 
well  agrees  with  the  ancient  description  of  Herodium 
(Robinson,  Researches,  ii,  173 ; Thomson,  Land  and  Book, 
ii,  427) Kitto. 

Herold,  Johann,  a German  divine,  was  born  at 
Hochstadt,  Suabia,  in  1511.  ITis  early  history  is  not 
known.  In  1539  he  made  his  appearance  in  Basle  as  a 
defender  of  Protestantism.  He  was  pastor  of  a parish 
near  Basle  for  some  years,  but  in  1546  retired  from  it 
and  returned  to  Basle  to  devote  his  time  entirely  to  lit- 
erary labors.  The  date  of  his  death  is  not  ascertained ; 
it  was  probably  about  1570.  Among  his  numerous  writ- 
ings are  the  following : Heidenwelt  undihrer  Goiter  an- 


fanglicher  Ursprung  (Basel,  1544,  fol. ; also  under  the  ti- 
tle, in  a 2d  ed.,  Theatrum  Divum  Dearumque  (Basil.  1628, 
fol.):  — Orthodoxogi'aphi  Theologian  Doctor  es  LX  XVI, 
lumina  clarissima  (Basil.  1555,  fol.) : — Hicresiologia,  sire 
Syntagma  veterum  theologorum  per  quos  grussatie  in  Ec- 
clesia  hcereses  coufutantur,  etc.  (Basil.  1556,  fol.). 

Heron  (HE3X,  anaphald,  Lev.  xi,  19;  Deut.  xiv,  18), 
an  unclean  bird,  for  which  the  kite,  woodcock,  curlew, 
peacock,  parrot,  crane,  lapwing,  and  several  others  have 
been  suggested.  But  most  of  these  are  . not  found  in 
Palestine,  and  others  have  been  identified  with  differ- 
ent Hebrew  words.  The  root  7'X,  anaph',  signifies  to 
breathe,  to  snort,  especially  from  anger,  and  thence,  fig- 
uratively, to  be  angry  (Gesenins,  Thes.  lleb.  p.  127).  Park- 
hurst  observes  that  “ as  the  heron  is  remarkable  for  its 
angry  disposition,  especially  when  hurt  or  wounded,  this 
bird  seems  to  be  most  probably  intended.”  But  this 
equally  applies  to  a great  number  of  different  species  of 
birds,  and  would  be  especially  appropriate  to  the  goose, 
which  hisses  at  the  slightest  provocation.  The  heron, 
though  not  constantly  hissing,  can  utter  a similar  sound 
of  displeasure  with  much  meaning,  and  the  common 
species,  Ardea  cinerea,  is  found  in  Egypt,  and  is  also 
abundant  in  the  Hauran  of  Palestine,  where  it  frequents 
the  margins  of  lakes  and  pools,  and  the  reedy  water- 
courses in  the  deep  ravines,  striking  and  devouring  an 
immense  quantity  of  fish.  The  herons  are  wading-birds, 
peculiarly  irritable,  remarkable  for  their  voracity,  fre- 
quenting marshes  and  oozy  rivers,  and  spread  over  the 
regions  of  the  East.  Most  of  the  species  enumerated  in 
English  ornithology  have  been  recognised  in  the  vicin- 
ity of  Palestine,  and  we  may  include  all  these  under 
the  term  in  question  — “the  anaphah  after  his  kind." 
One  of  the  commonest  species  in  Asia  is  Ardea  russata. 


Little  Golden  Egret  ( Ardea  Russata'). 


which  is  beautifully  adorned  with  plumage  partly  white 
and  partly  of  a rich  orange-yellow,  while  the  beak,  legs, 
and  all  the  naked  parts  of  the  skin  are  yellow.  Its 
height  is  about  seventeen  inches.  This  is  the  caboga, 
or  cow-heron  so  abundant  in  India.  Several  kinds  of 
heron,  one  of  which,  from  its  form,  woidd  serve  well 
enough  to  represent  this  little  golden  egret,  are  com- 
monly depicted  on  those  Egyptian  paintings  in  which 
the  subject — a favorite  one — is  the  fowling  and  fishing 
among  the  paper-reeds  of  the  Nile. 

Bochart  supposes  that  anaphah  may  mean  the  moun- 
tain falcon,  called  dvo-rzaia  by  Ilomcr  (Odgs.  i, 820),  be- 
cause of  the  similarity  of  the  Greek  word  to  the  He- 
brew. But  if  it  meant  any  kind  of  eagle  or  hawk,  it 
woidd  probably  have  been  reckoned  with  one  or  other 
of  those  species  mentioned  in  the  preceding  verses.  Per- 
haps, under  all  the  circumstances,  the  traditional  mean- 
ing is  most  likely  to  be  correct,  which  we  will  therefore 


HERON 


218 


IIERRON 


trace.  The  Talmudists  evidently  were  at  a loss,  for 
they  describe  it  indefinitely  as  a “ high-flying  bird  of 
prey”  ( Chitlin , 63  a). 

The  Septuagint  renders  the  Hebrew  word  by  xaPa~ 
dpiog.  This  rendering,  however,  has  been  thought  to 
lose  what  little  weight  it  might  otherwise  have  had 
from  the  probability  that  it  originated  in  a false  read- 
ing, viz.  agaphah,  which  the  translators  connected  Avith 
aguph,  “ a bank.”  Jerome  adhered  to  the  same  Avord  in 
a Latin  form,  caradrycn  and  cciradrium.  The  Greek 
and  Roman  Avriters,  from  the  earliest  antiquity,  refer  to 
a bird  Avhicli  they  call  charadrius.  It  is  particularly 
described  by  Aristotle  (Hist,  An.  vii,  7),  and  by  rElian 
(Hist.  An.  xAr,  26).  The  latter  derives  its  name  from 
Xapaepa,  a hollow  or  chasm,  especially  one  Avliieh  con- 
tains water,  because,  he  says,  the  bird  frequents  such 
places.  It  is,  moreoATer,  certain  that  by  the  Romans  the 
charadrius  Avas  also  called  icterus,  which  signifies  the 
jaundice,  from  a notion  that  patients  affected  A\ith  that 
disease  Avere  cured  by  looking  at  this  bird,  Avhich  Avas  of 
a yelloAV  color  (Pliny,  xxxiv;  Coel.  Aurel.  iii,  5),  and  by 
the  Greeks,  xXwp'uov ; and  in  allusion  to  the  same  fabu- 
lous notion,  iKTipog  (Aristotle,  Hist.  An.  ix,  13,  15,  and 
22;  yElian,  Hist.  An.  rir,  47).  These  Avriters  concur  in 
describing  a bird,  sometimes  of  a,  yellow  color,  remarkable 
for  its  A'oracity  (from  Avhich  circumstance  arose  the 
phrase  xapacpiov  (iiog,  applied  to  a glutton),  migratory, 
inhabiting  Avatery  places,  and  especially  mountain  tor- 
rents and  valleys.  Noav  it  is  certain  that  the  name 
charadrius  has  been  applied  by  ornithologists  to  the 
same  species  of  birds  from  ancient  times  down  to  the 
present  age.  Linnaeus,  under  Order  IV  (consisting  of 
Avaders  or  shore  birds),  places  the  genus  Charadrius,  in 
Avhich  he  includes  all  the  numerous  species  of  plovers. 
The  ancient  accounts  may  be  ad\’antageousIy  compared 
Avith  the  following  description  of  the  genus  from  Mr. 
Selby’s  British  Ornithology,  ii,  230 : “ The  members  of 
this  genus  are  numerous,  and  possess  a Avide  geograph- 
ical distribution,  species  being  found  in  every  quarter  of 
the  globe.  They  visit  the  East  about  April.  Some  of 
them,  during  the  greater  part  of  the  year,  are  the  inhab- 
itants of  open  districts  and  AA’ide  Avastes,  frequenting 
both  dry  and  moist  situations,  and  only  retire  toward 
the  coasts  during  the  severity  of  Avinter.  Others  are 
continually  resident  upon  the  banks  and  about  the 
mouths  of  rivers  (particularly  Avhere  the  shore  consists 
of  small  gravel  or  shingle).  They  live  on  Avorms,  in- 
sects, and  their  larva-.  The  flesh  of  many  that  live  on 
the  coasts  is  unpalatable.”  The  same  Avritcr  describes 
one  “ species,  Charadrius  pluvialis,  called  the  golden  plov- 
er from  its  eolor,”  and  mentions  the  Avell-knoAvn  fact 
that  this  species,  in  the  course  of  moulting,  turns  com- 
pletely black.  Analogous  facts  respecting  the  charadrius 
haA’e  been  established  by  observations  in  eA'ery  part  of 
the  globe,  viz.  that  they  are  gregarious  and  migrator}". 
The  habits  of  the  majority  are  littoral.  They  obtain 
their  food  along  the  banks  of  ri\*ers  and  the  shores  of 
lakes;  “like  the  gulls,  they  beat  the  moist  soil  Avith 
their  pattering  feet,  to  terrify  the  incumbent  Avorms,  yet 
are  often  found  in  deserts,  in  green  and  sedgy  meadows, 


Golden  Plover  ( Charadrius  Pluvialis)— Avinter  plumage. 


or  on  upland  moors.”  Their  food  consists  chiefly  of 
mice,  Avorms,  caterpillars,  insects,  toads,  and  frogs,  which 
of  course  places  them  among  the  class  of  birds  ceremo- 
nially unclean.  On  the  Avhole,  the  evidence  seems  in 
favor  of  the  conclusion  that  the  HebreAV  Avord  anaphah 
designates  the  numerous  species  of  the  plover  (may  not 
this  be  the  genus  of  birds  alluded  to  as  the  fowls  of  the 
mountain,  Psa.  1, 11 ; Isa.  xATiii,  6 ?).  Various  species  of 
the  genus  are  known  in  Syria  and  Palestine  as  the  C. 
pluvialis  (golden  plover),  C.  cedicnemus  (stone  eurlew), 
and  C.  spinosus  (lapAving).  (Kitto’s  Physical  History  of 
Palestine,  p.  106.)  In  connection  Avith  some  of  the  pre- 
ceding remarks,  it  is  important  to  observe  that  in  these 
species  a yelloAV  color  is  more  or  less  marked. — Kitto,  s. 
v. ; Fairbairn,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v. 

Herring,  Thoaias,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  was 
born  in  1693  at  Walsokcn,  Norfolk,  of  which  his  father 
Avas  rector.  He  studied  at  Jesus  and  Bennet  colleges, 
Cambridge,  and  Avas  made  felloAV  of  Corpus  Christi  in 
1716.  After  having  possessed  A'arious  livings,  he  was 
raised  in  1737  to  the  see  of  Bangor,  AA'hence  in  1743  he 
Avas  translated  to  York.  After  the  defeat  of  the  king’s 
troops  at  Preston  Pans  in  1745,  the  archbishop  exerted 
himself  in  his  dioeese  with  so  much  patriotism  and  zeal 
that  he  repressed  the  disaffected,  inspirited  the  despond- 
ing, and  procured  at  a county  meeting  a subscription  of 
£40,000  towards  the  defence  of  the  country.  His  zeal 
for  the  Hanoverian  cause  procured  him  the  facetious 
title  of  “ the  red  Herring.”  In  1747  he  A\ras  removed  to 
the  see  of  Canterbury,  and  he  died  at  Croydon  in  1756. 
Herring  Avas  a man  of  great  celebrity  as  a preacher. 
His  Sermons  on  Public  Occasions  Avere  published  in  1763 
(Lond.  8vo),  Avith  a memoir  of  Herring  by  Duneombe; 
folloAved  by  his  Letters  to  IP.  Buncombe  (1727,  12mo). 
See  Biographica  Britannica ; Rich,  Cyclop,  of  Biog. 

He nn lint,  a town  of  Saxony,  in  Upper  Lnsatia,  in 
the  circle  of  Dresden,  at  the  foot  of  Hutberg  Mountain, 
and  about  fifty  miles  from  the  city  of  Dresden.  It.  was 
built  by  Zinzendorf  in  1722  for  the  MoraA’ian  Brethren, 
who,  from  this  town,  are  often  called  Hermhutters.  See 

MOKAA'IANS, 

Herron,  Francis,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minister, 
was  bom  near  Shippensburg,  Pa.,  June  28,  1774.  His 
parents  Avere  Scotch-Irish.  Their  high  regard  for  knoAvl- 
edge  induced  them  to  send  him  to  Dickinson  College, 
Carlisle,  Pa.,  then  under  the  care  of  that  distinguished 
Presbyterian,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Nesbitt.  Here  he  graduated 
May  5,  1794.  He  studied  theology  Avith  Robert  Coop- 
er, D.D.,  and  Avas  licensed  by  Carlisle  Presbytery  in  1797. 
He  commenced  his  work  as  a missionary  in  the  then 
backAvoods  of  Ohio.  In  1800  he  became  pastor  of  the 
Rocky  Spring  Church,  where  he  labored  for  ten  years 
Avith  great  success.  In  June,  1811,  he  Avas  installed  pas- 
tor of  the  First  Presbyterian  Church,  Pittsburg,  Penn. 
He  found  his  new  church  embarrassed  Avith  debt,  and 
the  people  “ conformed  to  this  world”  to  a degree  almost 
appalling.  But  his  earnestness  and  activity  relieved 
the  church  of  debt  within  a feAv  years,  and  aAvokc  the 
members  to  a sense  of  their  spiritual  danger.  In  1825 
the  General  Assembly  resoh’ed  to  establish  a theological 
seminary  in  the  West.  Dr.  Herron,  Avith  his  naturally 
quick  perception,  luged  Alleghany  City,  Pa.,  as  the  best 
location,  and  by  great  exertions  obtained  the  decision 
to  locate  it  there.  He  then  undertook  the  toils  and 
anxieties  of  its  sustenance;  and  to  no  one  does  the  West- 
ern Theological  Seminary  OAve  its  success  in  a greater 
degree  than  to  Dr.  Herron.  In  1827  he  Avas  elected 
moderator  of  the  General  Assembly  held  in  Philadel- 
phia. In  1828  and  1832  his  ministrations  Avere  blessed 
by  gracious  revivals  of  religion;  and  in  1835  another 
reArival  occurred,  marked  by  great  excitement.  In  1850 
he  resigned  his  charge,  to  the  great  regret  of  his  people. 
Being  then  in  his  seventy-sixth  year,  he  felt  that  his 
Avork  Avas  ended.  He  lived  ten  years  longer;  though 
the  infirmities  of  age  greAV  apace,  his  serenity  and  cheer- 
fulness ncA'er  failed.  He  died  Dee.  6, 1860.  Sueh  was 


HERULI 


219 


IIESEE 


the  estimation  in  which  his  character  and  talents  were 
held  by  his  fellow-citizens,  that  the  courts  of  Pittsburg 
adjourned  on  the  announcement  of  his  death,  an  honor 
never  before  paid  to  any  clergyman  in  that  city. — Wil- 
son, Presb.  Ilist.  A Itnanac,  1862,  p.  95. 

Herse.  See  Hearse. 

Heruli  (Eruli,  ^Eruli),  a German  tribe,  which 
first  appeared  with  the  Goths  on  the  shores  of  the  Black 
Sea,  and  thence  took  an  active  part  in  all  the  incursions 
of  the  Goths  in  the  eastern  provinces  of  the  Roman 
empire.  We  afterwards  find  them  in  Attila’s  armies 
with  the  Scythians  and  Gepidie.  After  the  death  of 
Attila  they  established  themselves  as  a powerful  nation 
on  the  shores  of  the  Danube,  and  levied  tribute  on  the 
Lombards.  According  to  Procopius,  they  were  thor- 
oughly barbarous.  After  the  Lombards  and  other  neigh- 
boring nations  had  long  been  converted  to  Christianity, 
the  Heruli  still  preserved  their  idolatrous  worship,  and 
continued  to  sacrifice  human  victims  (see  Procopius,  De 
bello  Goth,  ii,  c.  11).  Under  the  leadership  of  Odoaeer, 
they  succeeded,  in  connection  with  the  Turones,  the 
Scythians,  and  the  Rugii,  in  taking  Rome,  and  from 
that  time  dates  the  downfall  of  the  Western  empire. 
About  495  they  were  defeated  in  an  important  battle  by 
the  Lombards.  Paulus  Diaeon.,  in  De  gest.  Longob .,  re- 
ports a popular  tradition,  according  to  which,  after  this 
battle,  the  whole  army  of  the  Heruli  became  so  bewil- 
dered in  consequence  of  the  anger  of  the  gods  that  they 
took  the  green  flax-fields  for  water,  and,  having  got  to 
them,  opened  their  arms  to  swim,  when  the  Lombards 
came  up  and  killed  them.  A part  of  the  nation  then 
established  themselves  in  Rugiland,  at  the  mouth  of  the 
Danube,  but  finally  decided  to  settle  in  the  eastern  Ro- 
man empire.  The  emperor  Anastasius  received  them 
in  his  dominions,  and  assigned  them  a territory  in  Il- 
lyria, but  was  subsequently  obliged  to  send  an  army 
against  them  to  put  an  end  to  their  depredations.  Those 
who  remained  now  subjected  themselves  to  Rome,  and 
aided  greatly  in  overthrowing  the  power  of  the  Ostro- 
goths in  Italy.  They  were  converted  to  Christianity 
under  Justinian  I,  joined  the  Roman  Catholic  Church, 
and  were  gradually  civilized.  Their  history  ceased  to 
present  any  characteristic  features.  See  Morere,  Grand 
Dictionnaire  (ed.  Drouet,  Paris,  1759),  vol.  v. ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop.  vi,  15.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Hervaeus,  Natalis  (French,  He  rye  de  Nedel- 
lec),  surnamed  Brito,  a mediaeval  French  theologian 
and  scholastic  philosopher,  was  a native  of  Brittany, 
and  died  at  Narbonne  August,  1823.  He  became  a 
member  of  the  Dominican  convent  at  Morlaix,  studied 
also  at  Paris,  then  taught  in  various  provinces  of  France, 
and  afterwards  was  rector  and  professor  of  theology  in 
the  University  of  Paris,  where  he  lectured  from  1307  to 
1309  upon  the  Sententice  of  Peter  Lombard.  In  1318  he 
became  general  of  his  order.  He  was  a zealous  Thom- 
ist,  and  passed  for  one  of  the  first  theologians  of  his 
time.  He  left  numerous  writings,  of  which  only  the 
following  have  been  printed:  Hervcci  Bntonis  in  IV 
Sententiarum  Volumina  Scripta  subtilissima  (best  ed. 
Venice,  1505,  fol.) ; — Quodlibeia  Maepia  (Veil.  I486,  fol.): 
— De  Beatitiuline,  De  Verbo , De  yEtemitate  Mundi,  De 
Materia  Cceli,  De  Relationibus , De  Pluralitate  Forma- 
rum,  De  Virtutibus,  De  Motu  Angeli — the  whole  pub- 
lished together  by  O.  Scot  (Venice,  1513,  in  1 vol.  fob) : 
— De  Secundis  Intentionibus  (Paris,  1489  and  1544,  4to) : 
— De  Pot  estate  Ecclesice  et  Papce  (Paris,  1500  and  1647). 
A list  of  his  IMS.  writings  is  given  by  Quetif  and  ficliard 
( Script . ord.  Freed,  i,  533). — Haureau,  De  la  Philosophic 
Scolastique,  ii,  396  sq. ; Tennemaun,  Man.  Hist,  of  Phil. 
p.  241  (Bohn’s  ed.).  (J.W.  M.) 

Hervey,  James,  an  English  divine  and  popular 
writer,  was  born  at  Hardingstone,  near  Northampton, 
Feb.  26, 1713.  At  eighteen  he  was  sent  to  Oxford,  and 
there,  becoming  acquainted  with  John  Wesley,  he  be- 
came seriously  impressed  with  the  importance  of  relig- 
ion. He  afterwards  became  a Calvinist.  At  twenty- 


two  he  became  curate  of  Weston  Favel,  and  a few  vears 
after  curate  of  Biddeford.  During  that  time  lie  wrote 
his  celebrated  Meditations  and  Contemplations  (1746, 
8vo),  which  obtained  immense  circulation.  It  was  fol- 
lowed by  Contemplations  on  the  Night  and  Starry  Heav- 
ens, and  .1  Winter  Piece  (1747,  8vo).  In  1750,  on  the 
death  of  his  father,  he  succeeded  to  the  livings  of  Wes- 
ton and  Collingtree ; and  he  devoted  himself  earnestly 
to  his  clerical  duties.  In  1753  he  published  Remarks  on 
Lord  Bolinybroke's  Letters  on  the  Study  and  Use  of  His- 
tory, so  fur  as  they  relate  to  the  History  of  the  Old  Tes- 
tament, etc.,  in  a Letter  to  a Lady  of  Quality  (1753, 8vo). 
In  1755  he  published  Theron  and  A spetsio,  or  a Series 
of  Dialogues  ami  Letters  on  the  most  important  Subjects 
(1755,  3 vols.  8vo),  which  was  attacked  by  Robert  San- 
deman,  of  Edinburgh,  on  the  nature  of  justifying  faith, 
and  other  points  connected  with  it,  in  a work  entitled 
Letters  on  Theron  and  Aspasio.  See  Sandeman.  John 
Wesley  wrote  a brief  review  of  his  Theron  and  Aspasio, 
and  Hervey  wrote  in  reply  Eleven  Letters  to  John  Wes- 
ley,  but  before  his  death  he  directed  that  the  MS.  of  this 
work  should  be  destroyed.  “ His  brother,  however, 
judged  that  it  woidd  be  a desirable  pecuniary  specula- 
tion to  publish  it,  and  placed  it  in  the  hands  of  Cud- 
worth,  an  erratic  dissenting  preacher,  to  be  finished, 
giving  him  liberty  ‘ to  put  out  and  put  in’  whatever  he 
judged  expedient.  Cudworth’s  Antinomian  sentiments 
led  him  to  abhor  Wesley’s  opinions;  he  caricatured  them 
relentlessly  by  his  interpolations  of  Hervey’s  pages,  and 
sent  forth  in  Hervey’s  name  the  first  and  most  reckless 
and  odious  caveat  against  Methodism  that  ever  emana- 
ted from  any  one  who  had  sustained  friendly  relations 
to  it.  It  was  republished  in  Scotland,  and  tended  much 
to  forestall  the  spread  of  Methodism  there.  Wesley 
felt  keenly  the  injustice  and  heartlessness  of  this  attack, 
but  his  sorrow  was  mitigated  by  the  knowledge  that 
the  most  of  the  abuse  in  the  publication  was  interpola- 
ted, and  that  Hervey,  who  had  delighted  to  call  him  his 
‘friend  and  father,’  knew  him  too  well  to  have  thus 
struck  at  him  from  the  grave.  He  answered  the  book ; 
but  time  has  answered  it  more  effectually — time,  the 
invincible  guardian  of  the  characters  of  great  men.” 
He  died  in  1758.  Mr.  Hervey’s  writings  are  viciously 
turgid  and  extravagant  in  style.  “He  was  eminently 
pious,  though  not  deeply  learned  ; habitually  spiritual- 
ly-minded; animated  with  ardent  love  to  the  Saviour; 
and  his  humility,  meekness,  submission  to  the  will  of 
God,  and  patience  under  his  afflicting  hand,  exemplified 
the  Christian  character,  and  adorned  his  profession.” 
His  writings  were  collected  and  published  after  his  death 
(London,  1797,  7 vols.).  His  correspondence  was  pub- 
lished separately  (1760,  2 vols.  8vo).  See  Ryland,  Life 
of  Hervey ; Letters  of  Hervey,  and  Life  prefixed ; Chal- 
mers, General  Biog.  Diet. ; Jones,  Christian  Biography  ; 
Stevens,  History  of  Methodism,  i,  372;  Wesley’s  1 1 rork$, 
vi,  103,  125;  Jackson,  Life  of  Charles  Wesley,  ch.  xxi; 
Coke  and  Moore,  Life  of  Wesley,  iii,  2. 

He'sed  (Heb.  Che’sed,  “ICn,  kindness,  as  often;  Sept. 
"Eer£c5),  the  name  of  a man  whose  son  (Ben-Hesed)  was 
Solomon’s  purveyor  in  the  district  of  Aruboth,  Soehoh, 
and  Heplier  (1  Kings  iv,  10).  B.C.  eir.  995.  See  also 
Jusiiaii-Hesed. 

Heser,  George,  a German  ecclesiastical  writer,  was 
bom  at  Weyem,  near  Passau,  Austria,  in  1609.  He 
joined  the  Jesuits  in  1625,  and  taught  rhetoric,  dialec- 
tics, and  controversy  at  Munich  and  Ingolstadt.  In  1642 
he  became  preacher  at  St. Maurice’s  Church,  Augsburg, 
and  in  1649  went  in  the  same  capacity  to  St.  Maiy’s 
Church,  Ingolstadt.  In  1662  he  retired  to  Munich, 
where  he  was  still  living  in  1676.  The  exact  time  of 
his  death  is  not  ascertained.  He  is  especially  noted 
for  his  efforts  in  proving  Thomas  a Kempis  (q.  v.)  as 
the  author  of  De  imitatione  Christi.  In  his  Dioptra 
Kempensis  he  has  gathered  a number  of  testimonies,  and 
describes  pretty  accurately  a number  of  editions  and  of 
translations  of  Kempis,  which  appeared  during  the  16th 


HESHBON 


220 


IIESSE 


and  17th  centuries.  He  wrote  also  Vita  et  Syllabus  om- 
nium Operurn  Thomee  a Kempis  ab  auctore  anonymo,  seel 
coeevo , non  longe  post  obitum  illius  consci'ipta  (Ingolstadt, 
1650, 1 2mo ; Paris,  1651, 8vo)  : — Prccmonitio  nova  ad  lec- 
torem  Thomee  a Kempis  (Ingolstadt,  1651, 18mo ; Paris, 
1651,  8vo) : — LXX  Palma’,  seu  panegyricus  in  laudem 
librorum  IV  Thomee  a Kempis , ex  hominum piorum  elo- 
giis  LXX  concinnatus  (Ingolstadt,  1651,  8vo),  etc.  See 
Veith,  Biblioth.  Augustana;  Ersch  und  Gruber , Allgem. 
Encykbpadie ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiv,  559. 

Hesh'bon  (Hebrew  Cheshbon',  “"Cl'HI,  intelligence, 
as  in  Eccles.  vii,  25,  etc. ; Sept.  ; Josephus),  a 

town  in  the  southern  district  of  the  Hebrew  territory 
beyond  the  Jordan,  on  the  western  border  of  the  high 
plain  (Mishor,  Josh,  xiii,  17).  It  originally  belonged  to 
the  Moabites,  but  when  the  Israelites  arrived  from 
Egypt  it  was  found  to  be  in  the  possession  of  the  Amo- 
rites,  whose  king,  Sihon,  is  styled  both  king  of  the  Amo- 
rites  and  king  of  Heshbon,  and  is  expressly  said  to  have 
“reigned  in  Heshbon”  (Josh,  iii,  10;  comp.  Numb,  xxi, 
26 ; Deut.  ii,  9).  It  was  taken  by  Moses  (Numb,  xxi, 
23-26),  and  eventually  became  a Levitical  city  (Josh, 
xxi,  39;  1 Chron.  vi,  81)  in  the  tribe  of  Reuben  (Numb, 
xxxii,  37 ; Josh,  xiii,  17) ; but,  being  on  the  confines  of 
Gad,  is  sometimes  assigned  to  the  latter  tribe  (Josh, 
xxi,  39;  1 Chron.  vi,  81).  After  the  Ten  Tribes  were 
sent  into  exile,  Heshbon  was  taken  possession  of  by  the 
Moabites,  and  hence  is  mentioned  by  the  prophets  in 
their  declarations  against  Moab  (Isa.  xv,  4;  Jer.  xlviii, 
2,  34,  45).  Under  king  Alexander  Jannasus  we  find  it 
again  reckoned  as  a Jewish  city  (Josephus,  Ant.,  xiii, 
15,  4).  riiny  mentions  a tribe  of  Arabs  called  Esbonitee 
{Hist.  Nat.  v,  11 ; comp.  Abidfeda,  Tab.  Syr.  p.  11).  In 
the  time  of  Eusebius  and  Jerome  ( Or.omast . s.  v.  ’Eaae- 
fiwv)  it  was  still  a place  of  some  consequence  under  the 
name  of  Esbus  {’Eofiovc;),  but  at  the  present  day  it  is 
known  by  its  ancient  name,  in  the  slightly  modified 
form  of  flesban.  The  region  was  first  visited  in  modern 
times  by  Seetzen.  The  site  is  twenty  miles  east  of  the 
Jordan,  on  the  parallel  of  the  northern  end  of  the  Dead 
Sea.  The  ruins  of  a considerable  town  still  exist,  cov- 
ering the  sides  of  an  insulated  hill,  but  not  a single  edi- 
fice is  left  entire.  The  view  from  the  summit  is  very 
extensive,  embracing  the  ruins  of  a vast  number  of  cit- 
ies, the  names  of  some  of  which  bear  a strong  resem- 
blance to  those  mentioned  in  Scripture.  These  envi- 
rons, occupying  the  elevated  plain  between  the  moun- 
tains of  .Jazer  and  the  Jabbok,  seem  to  be  referred  to  in 
Josh,  xiii,  16.  There  are  reservoirs  connected  with  this 
and  the  other  towns  of  this  region.  These  have  been 
supposed  to  be  the  “fish-pools”  (1^12*12,  cisterns)  of 
Heshbon  mentioned  by  Solomon  (Cant,  vii,  4)  [see 
Batii-rabbim]  ; but,  say  Irby  and  Mangles,  “The  ruins 
are  uninteresting,  and  the  only  pool  we  saw  was  too  in- 
significant to  be  one  of  those  mentioned  in  Scripture” 
(p.  472).  In  two  of  the  cisterns  among  the  ruins  they 
found  about  three  dozen  of  human  skulls  and  bones, 
which  they  justly  regarded  as  an  illustration  of  Gen. 
xxxvii,  20  {Travels,  p.  472;  see  also  George  Robinson, 
lord  Lindsay,  Schwarz,  Tristram,  etc.).  — Ivitto.  Dr. 
Macmichael  and  his  party  went  to  look  for  these  pools, 
but  they  found  only  one,  which  was  extremely  insignif- 
icant. This  is  probably  the  reservoir  mentioned  by 
Burckhardt  (Syria, p.  365).  Air.  Buckingham,  however, 
says,  “ The  large  reservoir  to  the  south  of  the  town,  and 
about  half  a mile  from  the  foot  of  the  hill  on  which  it 
stands,  is  constructed  with  good  masonry,  and  not  un- 
like the  cisterns  of  Solomon,  near  Jerusalem,  to  which 
it  is  also  nearly  equal  in  size.”  Towards  the  western 
part  of  the  hill  is  a singular  structure,  whose  crumbling 
ruins  exhibit  the  workmanship  of  successive  ages — the 
massive  st<ne>  of  the  Jewish  period,  the  sculptured  cor- 
nice of  the  Roman  a?ra,  and  the  light  Saracenic  arch,  all 
grouped  together  (Porter,  Handb.for  Palest,  p.  298). 

XTesh'mon  (Heb.  Cheshmon',  , fatness;  Sept. 

’Aoepwv),  a city  on  the  southern  border  of  Judah  (Sim- 


eon), near  Iduma?a,  mentioned  between  Hazor-Gaddah 
and  Beth-Palet  (Josh,  xv,  27);  hence  probably  some- 
where between  the  Dead  Sea  and  the  Mediterranean. 
It  is  possibly  the  same  as  the  Azjion  (q.  v.)  elsewhere 
(Josh,  xv,  4)  located  in  this  vicinity.  See  Hazar-ad- 

DAR. 

Hess,  Johann,  one  of  the  German  Reformers,  was 
born  in  Nuremberg  about  1490,  studied  at  Leipzig  from 
1506  to  1510,  and  at  Wittenberg  from  1510  to  1512.  In 
1513  he  became  secretary  to  the  bishop  of  Breslau.  Af- 
ter travelling  and  studying  in  Italy,  he  returned  in  1529 
to  Wittenberg,  and  there  became  connected  with  Luther 
and  Melancthon.  Returning  to  Breslau  with  reforma- 
tory views,  he  found  no  opposition  from  his  bishop,  who 
was  imbued  with  the  new  humanistic  learning,  and  was 
a friend  of  Erasmus.  But  the  bishop  (Turzo)  died  in 
1520,  and  his  successor  (Jacob  of  Salza)  was  a strenuous 
Romanist.  He  left  Breslau  for  a time,  but  the  seed  had 
taken  root,  and  the  magistrates  recalled  Hess  as  pastor 
in  1523.  Thenceforward  he  was  the  soul  of  the  Refor- 
mation in  Breslau.  In  1525  he  married,  and  continued 
his  labors  in  reforming  the  Church  and  the  schools,  and 
in  providing  institutions  for  the  relief  of  the  poor.  He 
died  in  1547. — 1 1 er  zog,  lie  a l-Eneyklojmd ie,  xix,  642. 

Hess,  Johann  Jakob,  an  eminent  Swiss  divine, 
was  born  at  Zurich  Oct.  21, 1741,  where  he  studied  the- 
ology with  his  uncle,  the  pastor  of  Neftenbaeh,  to  whom 
he  became  assistant  in  1760.  In  1777  he  was  called  to 
the  church  of  Notre  Dame  in  Zurich  ; and  in  1795  (con- 
trary to  his  own  wishes)  he  was  chosen,  in  preference  to 
Lavater,  antistes  or  president  of  the  clergy  of  the  can- 
ton. He  died  May  29, 1828.  His  long  life  was  faith- 
fully devoted  to  his  work  as  a pastor,  and  to  literary  la- 
bor. “Hess  was  to  Switzerland  what  Reinhard  was  to 
the  Saxon  Church,  and  Storr  to  that  of  Wiirlemberg. 
His  clear  and  mild,  yet  fixed  and  safe  convictions,  as 
expressed  in  his  writings  on  Biblical  history,  and  espe- 
cially on  the  life  of  our  Lord,  found  a hearty  reception  in 
many  a pious  domestic  circle  in  Germany,  ami  in  the 
sold  of  many  a young  theologian”  (Hagenbaeh,  I list,  of 
the  Church  in  ISth  ami  19 th  Centuries,  transl.by  Ilurst,  ii, 
409).  In  1767  he  published  a Geschichte  der  drei  letz- 
ten  Lebensjahre  Jesu  (Zurich,  6 vols.).  This  work  was 
adapted  to  the  use  of  Roman  Catholics  by  J.  A.  von 
Krapf  (Munster,  1782, 2 vols.).  Hess  continued  to  study 
the  subject,  and  wrote  Jugendgeschichte  Jesu  (Zurich, 
1773),  and  finally  his  Leben  Jesu  (1823,  3 vols.).  His 
other  works  arc  Von  dem  Reiche  Gottes  (Zurich,  1774,  2 
vols.;  5th  edit.  1826): — Gesch.u.  Sehriften  der  Apostel 
Jesu  (Zurich,  1775,3  vols.;  4th  ed.  1820-1822):  this  work 
was  also  adapted  to  the  use  of  Roman  Catholics  (Mun- 
ster, 1794, 2 vols. ; 3d  ed.  Salzburg,  1801) : — Geschichte  d. 
Israeliten  vor  d.  Zeiten  Jesu  (Zurich,  1776-1788, 12  vols.) : 
— Gesch.  Josua  (Zurich,  1779,  2 vols.)  : — Predigten  ii.d. 
Apostcdgesch.  (Zurich,  1781-1788),  a collection  of  50  ser- 
mons : — Ueber  die  Lehre,  Thaten,  und  Schicksale  unseres 
Herrn  (Zurich,  1782, 2 vols.;  4th  ed.  1817) : — Gcsch.  Da- 
vid's u.  Salomo’s  (Zurich,  1785,  2 vols.) : — Bill.  d.  heiligen 
Gesch.  (Zurich,  1791-1792,  2 vols.): — Gesch.  d.  Menschen 
(Zurich,  1791-1792,  2 vols.;  later  ed.  1829): — Ueber  die 
Volks  n.  Vaterlandsliebe  Jesu  (Winterthur,  1794)  : — Der 
Christ  bei  Gefahren  d.  Vaterlandes,  a collection  of  ser- 
mons (Zurich,  1799-1800, 3 vols.).  See  Ersch  u.  Gruber, 
Encyklopiidie ; llocfer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiv,  575. 

Hesse,  a country  in  central  Germany.  The  name 
is  for  the  first  time  mentioned  in  a letter  of  St.  Boniface 
to  the  pope  (783),  and  the  pupils  of  Boniface  introduced 
Christianity  into  the  country.  At  the  time  of  Charle- 
magne it  belonged  to  the  dominions  of  the  counts  of 
Franconia;  in  the  10th  century,  a number  of  Hessian 
nobles  established  tlieir  independence ; in  the  following, 
all  of  them  recognised  the  sovereignty  of  Ludwig  I of 
Thuringia,  who  had  married  the  daughter  of  one  of  the 
Hessian  princes.  This  line  became  extinct  in  1247 ; a 
long  civil  war  ensued ; the  result  was  the  confirmation 
of  the  rule  of  Heinrich  of  Brabant,  the  son-in-law  of  the 


HESSE 


221  HESSIIUSEN- 


last  ruler  of  the  extinct  line.  His  son  Heinrich  (“the 
Child  of  Brabant”)  became  the  ancestor  of  all  the  branch- 
es of  Hessian  princes.  The  Hessian  lands,  sometimes 
divided  among  several  princes,  were  again  reunited  at 
the  beginning  of  the  ltith  century  under  Wilhelm  II. 
the- father  of  Philip  I the  Magnanimous,  who  played  so 
prominent  a part  in  the  history  of  the  Reformation  of 
the  16th  century.  Philip  divided  his  dominions  among 
his  four  sons,  two  of  whom  died  childless,  thus  leaving 
only  two  chief  lines  of  the  Hessian  dynasties,  Ihsse-Cas- 
sel  and  Hesse-Darnistadt,  The  landgraves  of  Hesse- 
Cassel  in  1803  received  the  title  of  elector;  but  in  1806, 
in  consequence  of  the  German  war,  in  which  the  elector 
had  taken  sides  against  Prussia,  the  country  was  con- 
quered by  the  Prussians,  and  annexed  to  Prussia.  The 
landgrave  of  Ilesse-Darmstadt  in  1806  received  the  title 
of  grand-duke.  From  both  main  lines  others  branched 
off  from  time  to  time,  but  at  the  establishment  of  the 
German  Confederation  in  1815,  only  one,  the  landgra- 
vate  of  Ilesse-Homburg , a branch  of  Ilesse-Darmstadt, 
became  a member  of  the  Confederation.  It  became  ex- 
tinct in  March,  1866,  fell  to  Ilesse-Darmstadt,  but  in 
September,  1866,  was  ceded  by  Ilesse-Darmstadt  to  Prus- 
sia. Thus,  in  1870,  the  only  Hessian  line  retaining  sov- 
ereignty was  the  grand-duchy  of  Hesse  - Darmstadt, 
which  was  a part  of  the  new  North-German  Confedera- 
tion, not  for  the  whole  territory,  however,  but  only  for 
one  of  the  three  provinces. 

The  zeal  of  Philip  the  Magnanimous  for  the  success 
of  the  Reformation  made  the  Hessian  territory  one  of 
the  strongholds  of  German  Protestantism.  But  the  vac- 
illation of  the  succeeding  princes  between  the  Lutheran 
and  the  Reformed  Creeds  caused  considerable  trouble, 
especially  in  Hesse-Cassel,  the  State  Church  of  which 
was  often  left  in  the  dark  as  to  whether  it  was  Lutheran 
or  Reformed.  Theological  controversies  on  this  sub- 
ject have  been  continued  up  to  the  present  day.  In  the 
grand-duchy  of  Hesse-Darmstadt,  the  majority  of  the 
Protestant  churches,  both  Lutheran  and  Reformed,  have 
joined  (since  1822)  the  “ Union”  or  United  Evangelical 
Church.  Before  the  union  there  were  in  the  grand- 
duchy  about  406,000  Lutherans  and  173,000  Reformed. 
According  to  the  census  of  1867,  there  were  in  the  grand- 
duchy  in  that  year  564,657  Evangelical  Christians  (68.60 
per  cent,  of  the  total  population),  229,373  Roman  Cath- 
olics (27.86  per  cent.),  3841  other  Christians  (0.47  per 
cent.),  25,266  Israelites  (3.07  per  cent.).  In  the  class  of 
“other  Christians”  were  included  2987  German  Catho- 
lics, 626  Mennonites,  119  Baptists,  31  Free  Religious,  24 
Separatists,  22  Greek  Catholics,  20  United  Brethren  in 
Christ,  6 Darbyites,  4 Pietists,  2 Orthodox  Catholics. 

The  National  Evangelical  Church  comprises  the  mem- 
bers of  the  United  Evangelical  Church  as  well  as  the 
non-united  Lutherans  and  Reformed.  The  Chinch  con- 
stitution, introduced  at  the  time  of  the  Reformation, 
with  two  consistories  and  four  superintendents,  was 
changed  in  1803.  The  office  of  superintendents  was 
abolished ; the  two  consistories  were  supplanted  by 
Church  and  School  councils  which  had  no  consistorial  ju- 
risdiction. The  new  councils  were  subordinate  to  the 
state  ministers  of  the  Interior  and  of  Justice,  who,  in  the 
exercise  of  their  functions,  were  aided  by  inspectors.  As 
in  other  parts  of  Germany,  the  Church  lost  the  last  rem- 
nant of  self-government,  and  became  wholly  subject  to 
the  state.  A reorganization  of  the  constitution  took 
place  by  a decree  of  June  6, 1832.  The  administration 
of  all  the  affairs  of  the  National  Evangelical  Church  was 
transferred  to  a Supreme  Consistory  (Oberconsistorium) 
at  Darmstadt,  which  consists  of  a president  (a  layman), 
three  ministerial  counsellors,  two  lay  counsellors,  and  of 
one  or  several  assessors.  Only  in  rare  cases  the  Supreme 
Consistory  has  to  report  to  the  state  ministry  for  a final 
decision.  Each  of  the  three  provinces  of  the  grand- 
duchy  has  a superintendent.  The  superintendents  are 
the  organs  through  whom  the  Supreme  Consistory  exer- 
cises its  functions.  Subordinate  to  the  superintendents 
are  the  deans,  thirty  in  number,  who  are  appointed  by 


the  Supreme  Consistory  for  the  term  of  five  years.  Ev- 
ery congregation  has  a local  church  council  to  assist  in 
the  management  of  the  external  church  discipline  and 
of  the  local  church  property.  This  Church  council  has 
two  official  members,  the  pastor  and  the  burgomaster 
(or  his  representative),  and  from  three  to  five  extraor- 
dinary members,  who  are  chosen  by  the  former  in  union 
with  the  council  of  the  civil  community.  Every  par- 
ish is  to  receive  an  official  “ visitation”  from  the  super- 
intendent or  a clean  once  within  every  three  years.  The 
highest  dignitary  of  the  Church  is  the  “prelate”  (priilat), 
who  is  also,  by  virtue  of  his  office,  a member  of  the  First 
Chamber.  A theological  facidty  is  connected  with  the 
University  of  Giessen ; besides,  there  is  a preachers’ 
seminary  at  Fricdeburg.  The  theological  faculty  of 
Giessen  has  been  and  still  is  (Jan.  1870)  under  the  con- 
trol of  the  Rationalistic  party;  among  its  best  known 
professors  were  Credner  (q.  v.)  and  Knobel  (q.  v.).  As 
may  therefore  be  expected,  a considerable  portion  of  the 
clergy  belong  likewise  to  the  Rationalistic  party;  of 
late,  however,  the  reaction  in  favor  of  evangelical  prin- 
ciples has  gained  ground. 

The  Roman  Catholics  belong  to  the  ancient  diocese 
of  Mentz  (q.  v.),  which  is  now  a suffragan  see  to  the 
archbishop  of  Freiburg.  The  diocese,  which,  besides 
Ilesse-Darmstadt,  comprises  a few  parishes  in  the  for- 
mer landgravatc  of  Hessc-Homburg,  had  (1865)  158  par- 
ishes in  17  deaneries.  A faculty  of  Roman  Catholic  the- 
ology was  formerly  connected  with  the  University  of 
Giessen;  but  in  1848  the  bishop  of  Mentz  forbade  all 
students  of  theology  to  attend  the  theological  lectures 
of  the  (prominently  Protestant)  University,  and  estab- 
lished a new  theological  seminary  at  Mentz.  The  the- 
ological faculty,  deserted  by  all  the  students,  had  soon  to 
be  suppressed.  Of  monastic  institutions,  there  were  in 
1865  houses  of  the  Jesuits,  Capuchins,  Brothers  of  the 
Christian  Schools,  Englische  Friiulein,  Sisters  of  Char- 
ity, and  other  female  congregations,  with  244  members. 
At  the  beginning  of  the  century,  the  most  liberal  senti- 
ments prevailed  among  the  majority  of  the  clergy,  in- 
cluding even  the  canons  of  the  cathedral  church,  and 
the  professor  of  theological  faculty  of  the  University; 
but  since  the  appointment  of  the  ultramontane  bishop 
of  Ketteler  (1S50),  these  liberal  sentiments  have  been  to 
a very  large  extent  weeded  out  or  repressed.  See  Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklopadie,  vi,  29;  Wiggers,  Kirchl.  Statis- 
ts, ii,  207 ; Nelier,  Kirchl.  Geographic  und  Statists,  ii, 
311.  (A.J.S.) 

Hesse  von  Hessentein,  Joiianx,  bom  at  Nu- 
remberg Sept.  21,  1487,  studied  theology  at  Leipzig  and 
Wittenberg,  and  became  a priest  during  a stay  in  Italy. 
On  his  return  to  Germany  his  relations  became  inti- 
mate with  Luther,  to  whose  influence  is  attributed  the 
deep  Christian  experience  which  characterize  the  pro- 
ductions of  his  pen.  Hesse  is  considered  one  of  the  first 
German  sacred  poets,  and  many  of  his  hymns  are  sung 
in  the  German  churches  of  to-day. — Wolff,  Eneyklop.  d. 
deutsch.  Nationally,  iv,  83.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hesshusen  (Hessiiusius),  Tilemanx,  a Lutheran 
theologian,  was  born  November  3,  1527,  at  Wesel,  in 
Cleves.  I n his  youth  he  travelled  over  France,  England, 
Denmark,  and  Germany;  after  which  he  went  to  Wit- 
tenberg, where,  in  1550,  he  became  master  of  arts,  and 
soon  made  his  mark  as  a preacher.  In  1552,  when  but 
twenty-five  years  old,  he  was  appointed  pastor  of  Gos- 
lar,  and  in  1553  was  made  D.D.  But  his  peculiarities 
of  mind  and  temper  prevented  his  remaining  long  in 
any  post.  Always  in  conflict  with  the  authorities,  his 
friend  Melanctlion  in  vain  procured  him  several  advan- 
tageous situations,  securing  him,  when  but  thirty  years 
old,  the  nomination  as  professor  of  theology  at  Heidel- 
berg, superintendent  of  the  Palatinate,  and  president  of 
the  Church  Council,  which  he  lost  again  two  years  after, 
in  1559,  after  a bitter  controversy  with  Klebitz  (q.  v.) 
on  the  doctrine  of  the  Lord’s  Supper.  He  fought  the 
same  battle  again  with  A.  Hardenberg  at  Bremen.  See 


IIESYCHASTS 


222 


HETA2REE 


Crypto-Calvimsm.  Having  finally  sought  a refuge 
in  his  native  city  of  Wesel,  he  was  driven  from  it  in 
1564  for  writing  his  Unterschied  zudschen  d.wahren  ka- 
tholischen  Lehre  d.  Kirche  u.  z.  d.  Irrthumem  d.  Papisten 
u.  d.  romischen  Antichrists,  which  highly  displeased  the 
government.  After  varied  fortunes,  he  was  in  15<3  ap- 
pointed bishop  of  Sameland;  but,  having  there  awaken- 
ed great  opposition,  his  doctrines  were  condemned  by  a 
synod  in  1577,  and  he  himself  was  afterwards  driven 
out  of  the  country.  Shortly  after  he  entered  on  his  last 
situation  as  the  leading  professor  of  theology  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Helmstiidt,  where  he  died,  Sept.  25, 1 588.  Dur- 
ing his  whole  career  as  a controvertist,  Hesshusen  was 
a strong  advocate  of  extreme  Lutheranism,  against  the 
Melancthonian  Synergists.  See  Synergistic  Contro- 
versy. After  the  promulgation  of  the  Formula  of  Con- 
cord (q.  v.),  he  opposed  it  (having  subscribed  it  in  1578) 
on  the  ground  that  certain  changes  had  been  made  in  it 
before  publication.  Under  his  influence,  the  University 
of  Helmstiidt  withdrew  its  sanction  from  the  Formida. 
Among  his  writings,  the  most  important  are  his  Com- 
mentar  it.  d.  Psahnen : — De  justificatione  peccatoris  coram 
Deo  (1587): — Examen  Theologicum  (Helmstiidt,  1586). 
See  Jno.  Ge.  Leuckfeld,  Hid.  Heshusiana  (Quedlinburg, 
1716)  ; Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  49;  Planck,  Gesch.  d. 
Prot.  Theol. ; Gass,  Geschichte  d.  Prot.  Theol.  voL  ii. 

Hesychasts  (Greek  tjavxatJTat,  i)avxdZtiv,  to  be 
quiet),  a party  of  Eastern  monks  of  the  14th  century,  on 
Mount  Athos.  They  taught  a refined  and  exaggerated 
mysticism,  or  quietism  (q.  v.),  seeking  “ tranquillity  of 
mind  and  the  extinction  of  evil  passions  by  contempla- 
tion.” They  believed  that  all  who  arrive  at  the  bless- 
edness of  seeing  God  may  also  arrive  at  a tranquillity 
of  mind  entirely  free  from  perturbation,  and  that  all  en- 
joying such  a state  may  have  visual  perception  of  di- 
vine light,  such  as  the  apostles  saw  when  they  beheld 
His  glory  shining  forth  in  the  transfiguration.  The 
monk  Barlaam  (q.  v.),  who  afterwards  became  bishop 
of  Gerace,  during  a visit  to  the  East,  learned  the  doc- 
trines and  usages  of  these  qnietistic  monks,  and  at- 
tacked them  violently.  They  were  vigorously  defended 
by  Falamas,  afterwards  bishop  of  Thessalonica.  The 
charges  brought  against  them  were  not  merely  that 
they  professed  to  seek  and  obtain  a divine  and  super- 
natural light  not  promised  in  Scripture,  but  also  that 
the  means  they  used  were  fanatical  and  absurd.  These 
means  included  contemplation,  introversion,  and  ascetic 
practices;  especially  it  was  said  that  they  were  accus- 
tomed to  seat  themselves  in  some  secret  corner,  and  fix 
their  eyes  steadfastly  upon  the  navel,  whence  they  were 
called  opflaAoipvxoi.  As  the  fruit  of  such  contempla- 
tion, a divine  light,  they  said,  such  as  that  which  shone 
on  Tabor,  was  diffused  through  their  souls.  Palamas 
defended  this  theory  by  making  a distinction  between 
the  essence  ( ovoia ) of  God  and  his  activity  (ivtpytia), 
asserting  that  the  latter,  though  eternal  and  uncreated, 
is  yet  communicable.  To  the  charge  that  they  thus 
claimed  directly  to  see  God,  inasmuch  as  this  uncreated 
light  must  be  either  of  the  substance  or  of  the  attributes 
of  God,  they  replied  that  the  divine  light  radiated  from 
God  through  ivtpytia,  but  was  not  God.  The  whole 
matter  was  brought  before  a council  at  Constantinople 
in  1341,  and  the  decision  tending  favorably  to  the  Hesy- 
chasts, Barlaam  retreated  to  Italy.  But  his  cause  was 
taken  up  by  another  monk,  George  Acyndinus,  who  at- 
tacked the  doctrine  of  Palamas  and  the  usages  of  the 
Hesychasts.  He  also  lost  his  case  before  a synod  at  Con- 
stantinople. After  the  death  of  the  emperor  Androni- 
cus,  however,  who  had  favored  Palamas  and  the  Hesy- 
chasts, things  took  a different  turn  for  a while  in  favor 
of  the  Barlaaraites ; but  after  the  triumph  of  the  em- 
peror John  Cantacuzenus,  who  favored  the  other  side,  a 
synod  at  Constantinople,  in  1351,  approved  the  doctrine 
of  the  Hesychasts,  especially  the  distinction  between 
ovoia  and  ivtpytia,  anti  excommunicated  Acyndinus 
and  Barlaam.  The  sources  of  information  on  these  pro- 
ceedings are  the  Historia  of  John  Cantacuzenus  (ii,  39; 


iv,  23,  etc.),  which  is  on  the  side  of  the  Hesychasts ; and 
the  Historia  Byzantina  of  Nicephorus  Gregoras,  which 
takes  the  other  side.  See  Petavius,  De  Dogm.  Theol. 
lib.  i,  c.  12 ; Schrbckh,  KirchcngescMchte,  xxxiv,  431 ; 
Moslieim,  Church  Hist.  cent,  xiv,  pt.  ii,  ch.  v;  Gass,  in 
Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  52  sq. ; Engclhardt,  in  Zeit- 
schrift  d.  hist.  Theol.  viii,  48 ; Gieseler,  Church  History , 
per.  iii,  § 127;  Bingham,  Orig.  Eccles.  bk.  vii,  chap,  ii,  § 
14;  Domer,  Person  of  Christ,  Edinb.  translation,  div.  ii, 
vol.  i,  p.  236.  See  Mysticism. 

Hesychius,  an  Egyptian  bishop  of  the  3d  century, 
who  is  mentioned  by  Eusebius  (Ilist.  Eccles.  viii,  13)  as 
a reviser  of  the  text  of  the  Septuagint  (see  also  Jerome, 
De  vir.  illust.  77).  He  also  published  an  edition  of  the 
New  Testament,  of  which  Jerome  does  not  appear  to 
have  formed  a favorable  opinion.  He  obtained  the 
crown  of  martyrdom  in  the  Dioclesian  persecution  about 
A.D.  311.  Nothing  of  his  works  is  now  extant.  See 
Clarke,  Succ.  of  Sac.  Literature , s.  v. ; Lardner,  Works, 
iii,  206 ; Hody,  De  Bill,  textibus  originalibus  (Oxf.  1705). 

Hesychius,  the  grammarian  of  Alexandria,  is 
of  uncertain  date,  but  probably  lived  about  the  end  of 
the  4th  century.  He  compiled  a Greek  Lexicon,  which 
has  been  of  inestimable  service  to  philology  and  litera- 
ture. The  best  edition  is  that  of  Alberti  and  Euhnken 
(Leyden,  1746-66,  2 vols.),  with  additions  by  Scliow 
(Leipsic,  1792,  Svo) ; newly  edited  by  Schmidt  (Jena, 
1857-64, 4 vols.  4to).  See  Eanke,  De  Lexici  Hesychiani 
vera  origine  et  genuina  forma  Commentatio  (Leipzig  and 
Quedlinburg,  1831,  8vo). 

Hesychius  of  Jerusalem,  a Greek  ecclesiastical 
writer  of  the  5th  century  (supposed  to  have  died  about 
A.D.  434).  Consecrated  priest  by  the  patriarch  of  Con- 
stantinople against  his  wishes,  he  spent  the  remainder 
of  his  life  in  that  city.  This  is  about  all  that  is  known 
with  any  certainty  concerning  his  fife.  He  appears  to 
have  enjoyed  great  reputation,  and  wrote  a number  of 
books,  the  principal  of  which  are,  In  Leriticum  Libri 
septem  (Latin  only,  Basle,  1527,  foloi ; Paris,  1581,  8vo : 
and  in  Bibliotheca  Patram,  xii,  52 : — Xnxgpbv  (or  K t<pd- 
\aia ) riov  t€’  7roo(pt]Tuiv  tcai  ’lloatov,  Sticheron  (or  Ca- 
pita) in  duodecim  prophetas  minores  et  Esaiam,  publish- 
ed by  David  Hoeschel  with  Adrian’s  Isagoge  (Augsburg, 
1602,  4to),  and  inserted  in  the  Critici  Sacri  (London, 
1660),  viii,  26: — ’ AvTippi]TiKci  or  Earned,  published  with 
Marcus  Eremita’s  Opuscula  (Paris,  1563,  8vo),  and  re- 
printed in  the  Bibliotheca  veterum  Patmm  of  Fronton 
Ducieus  (Paris,  1624,  fob),  i,  985.  A Latin  translation 
of  this  work  was  inserted  in  the  Biblioth.  Patrum,  xii, 
194,  lmder  the  title  Ad  Theodulum  Strmo  compendiosus 
animee  perutilis  de  Temperantia  tt  Virtute,  etc. : — Homil- 
i<e  de  Sancta  Maria  deipara,  published  by  F.  du  Due  in 
Biblioth.  veterum  Patrum,  ii,  417 : — To  tig  top  iiyiov 
’Avdptav  tyxiopiov,  Oraiio  demonstrativa  in  S.Andre- 
am  Apostolum : a Latin  translation  of  this  work  was  in- 
serted in  the  Biblioth.  Patr.  xii,  188 : — De  Resurrectione 
Domini  nostri  Christi,  and  De  Ilora  tertia  et  sexta  quibus 
Dominus  fuisse  crucifixus  dicitur,  in  Combefis,  Novum 
Auctarium: — E ig  ’laicoAov  top  ddtXtpbv  tov  Kvpiov  teat 
AnfiJ  top  0to7rdropa,  of  which  extracts  are  given  in 
Photius  (cod.  275): — Maprvpiov  top  dyiov  icai  ivdoZov 
/idprvpog  tov  Xptorov  Aoyyipov  tov  iicarovrdpxov, 
in  Bollandus,  Acta  Sanct.  March,  vol.  ii,  Appendix,  p. 
736: — 'H  tvayytXiKt)  ovptyojvia,  in  Combefis,  i,  773 ; an 
extract  of  it  was  inserted  in  Cotelier,  Eccles.  Greec.  Mon- 
ument. iii,  1,  under  the  title  Xavayivyg  cnropiwv  nai 
tTriXvartuiV  bcXtytiaa  iv  iiriropy  tic  rijg  EvayytXucijg 
'Evptjxoviag.  Part  of  the  extant  writings  of  Hesychius 
are  given  in  Migne’s  Patrologia  Grceca,  vol.  xciii.  See 
Photius,  Bibliotheca ; Cave,  Hist.  Liter,  i,  571 ; Tillemont, 
Mc-moires  Ecclesiastiques,  xiv,  227 ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog. 
Generate,  xxiv,  589. 

Hetaerlae  ( iraiptiai ),  associations  or  secret  societies 
of  the  Romans,  which  were  forbidden  by  an  edict  of 
Trajan  soon  after  his  accession,  A.D.  98.  Under  this 


HETERODOX 


223 


IIETZER 


commission,  Pliny  proceeded  to  severe  measures  against 
the  assemblies  of  the  Christians  about  A.D.  105. 

Heterodox,  a term  “ practically  limited  to  belief 
in  something  that  is  contrary  to  the  decision  of  some 
church  or  churches ; thus,  when  a Romanist  or  a Lu- 
theran, etc.,  speaks  of  heterodoxy,  he  means  something 
in  opposition  to  the  teaching,  respectively,  of  the  Rom- 
ish or  Lutheran  Church,  etc.,  so  that  what  is,  or  at  least 
is  miderstood  by  heterodox , at  one  time  or  place,  will 
be  orthodox  in  another”  (Eden,  s.  v.).  See  Martensen, 
Dogmatics,  § 28.  See  Heresy  ; Orthodox. 

Heterousians  (of  other  essence;  erepog,  oinria),  a 
sect,  the  followers  of  Acitius,  and  from  him  denominated 
Aetians.  See  Aetians  ; Arianism. 

Heth  (TIeb.  Cheth,  P.n,  dread ; Sept,  o Xsrraiog,  and 
so  Josephus,  Ant.  i,  6, 2),  a son  (descendant)  of  Canaan, 
and  the  ancestor  of  the  Hittites  (Gen.  v,  20;  Dent,  vii, 
1 ; Josh,  i,  4),  who  dwelt  in  the  vicinity  of  Hebron  (Gen. 
xxiii,  3,  7;  xxv,  10).  The  “kings  of  the  Hittites”  is 
spoken  of  all  the  Canaanitish  kings  (2  Kings  vii,  G).  In 
the  genealogical  tables  of  Gen.  x and  1 Chron.  i,  Heth 
is  named  as  a son  of  Canaan,  younger  than  Zidon  the 
firstborn,  but  preceding  the  Jebusite,  the  Amorite,  and 
the  other  Canaanitish  families.  The  Hittites  were  there- 
fore a Hamitic  race,  neither  of  the  “country”  nor  the 
“kindred”  of  Abraham  and  Isaac  (Gen.xxiv,3,4;  xxviii, 
1, 2).  In  the  earliest  historical  mention  of  the  nation — 
the  beautiful  narrative  of  Abraham’s  purchase  of  the 
cave  of  Machpelali — they  are  styled,  not  Hittites,  but 
Bene-Cheth  (A.Y.  “sons  and  children  of  Heth,”  Gen. 
xxiii,  3, 5,  7, 10, 16, 18, 20 ; xxv,  10 ; xlix,  32).  Once  we 
hear  of  the  “daughters  of  Heth”(xxvii,46),the  “daugh- 
ters of  the  land,”  at  that  early  period  still  called,  after 
their  less  immediate  progenitor,  “daughters  of  Canaan” 
(xxviii,  1, 8,  compared  with  xxvii,  46,  and  xxvi,  34,35; 
see  also  1 Kings  xi,  1 ; Ezek.  xvi,  3).  In  the  Egyptian 
monuments  the  name  Chat  is  said  to  stand  for  Pales- 
tine (Bunsen,  sEgypten,  quoted  by  Ewald,  Gesch.  i,  317, 
note). — Smith.  See  Hittite. 

Hetherington,  William  M.,  a minister  of  the 
Free  Church  of  Scotland,  was  born  June  4,  1803,  near 
Dumfries.  He  was  educated  at  the  University  of  Ed- 
inburgh, where  he  distinguished  himself  in  Greek  and 
in  moral  philosophy.  His  first  service  in  the  ministry 
was  at  Hamilton,  where  he  was  assistant  to  Dr.  Meek, 
whose  daughter  he  married.  In  1836  he  became  min- 
ister of  Torphicken,  and  in  1844  at  St.  Andrew’s.  At 
the  “ disruption”  he  went  out  with  the  Free  Church.  In 
1848  he  was  appointed  to  Free  St.  Paul’s  Church,  Edin- 
burgh, and  in  1857  he  was  called  to  the  eliair  of  Apol- 
ogetics and  Systematic  Theology  in  the  Free-Cliurch 
College,  Glasgow,  where  his  labors  as  lecturer  were  ex- 
cessive. In  1862  he  was  struck  by  paralysis,  and  on  the 
23d  of  May,  1865,  he  died.  His  writings,  besides  the  ed- 
itorship of  the  Free-Church  Magazine  (1844-48),  and 
numerous  contributions  to  the  Presbyterian  Review  and 
the  North  British  Review,  include  the  following:  Dra- 
matic Sketches  (poems,  1829, 8vo) : — The  Fulness  of  Time 
(1834),  characterized  by  Southey  as  a very  original  and 
able  treatise : — Roman  History  (in  Encyclop.  Brit. ; sep- 
arately printed,  1852,  12mo)  : — The  Minister's  Family 
(1847 ; 5th  edit.  1851, 12mo)  : — History  of  the  Church  of 
Scotland  (1841, 8vo;  last  edit.  1853,  2 vols.  8vo) : — His- 
tory of  the  Westminster  Assembly  (1843,  12mo):  — pos- 
thumous, The  Apologetics  of  the  Christian  Faith;  being 
a course  of  University  lectures,  with  Introduction  in- 
cluding a brief  biographical  sketch  of  the  author  by  Dr. 
Alexander  Duff  (Edinburgh,  1867, 8vo). 

Heth'lon  (Heb.  Chethlon',  *j’3rfi,  wrapped  up,  i.  e. 
a hiding-place;  Yulg.  Uethalon ),  a place  the  approach 
(7^;),  “way”)  to  which  lay  on  the  northern  border  of 
Palestine,  between  the  Mediterranean  and  Zedad,  in  the 
direction  of  Hamath  (Ezek.  xlvii,  15;  xlviii,  1).  In  all 
probability  the  “way  of  Hethlon”  is  the.  pass  at  the 
(N.  or  S.)  end  of  Lebanon,  from  the  sea-coast  of  the  Med- 


iterranean to  the  great  plain  of  Hamath,  and  is  thus 
identical  with  “ the  entrance  of  Hamath"  (q.d.)  in  Numb, 
xxxiv,  8,  etc.  See  Porter,  Five  Years  in  Damascus,  ii, 
356. 

Hetzel  or  Hezel,  Johann  Wiliielm  Friedrich, 
a German  Orientalist  and  theologian,  was  bom  at  Ko- 
nigsberg  May  16,  1754.  lie  studied  at  the  universities 
of  Wittenberg  and  Jena,  and  was  appointed  professor  of 
Oriental  languages  at  Giessen  in  1766.  In  1800  he  was 
made  librarian  of  the  University  of  that  city,  and  in 
1801  was  called  to  the  professorship  of  Oriental  litera- 
ture in  the  University  of  Dorpat,  which  office  he  held 
until  1820.  lie  died  Feb.  1, 1829.  Hetzel  wrote  a num- 
ber of  works  on  the  study  of  Oriental  languages,  the 
principal  of  which  are  A usfuhrliche  hebraische  Sprach- 
lehre  (Halle,  1777,  8vo): — Nomina  formenlehre  d.  liebra- 
ischen  Sprache  (Halle,  1793,  8vo): — Institutio  Philologi 
Hebrtei  (Ilalle,  1793, 8vo) : — Gesch.  d.  hebrdischen  Litera- 
tur  (Halle,  1776): — Syrische  Sprachlehre  (Lemgo,  1788, 
8vo): — Arabische  Grammatik  nebst  einer  kurzen  ara - 
bischen  Chrestomathie  (Jena,  1776, 8vo).  Among  his  the- 
ological works,  the  most  important  are  Die  Bibel,  A lies 
u.  Neues  Testament  mit  vollstandig  erklarendeu  Berner - 
kungen  (Lemgo,  1780-1791, 10  vols.): — Neuer  Versuch  ii. 
d.  Brief  an  d.  Hebraer  (Lpz.  1795, 8vo) : — Biblisches  Real- 
lexikon (Lpz.  1783-1785, 3 vols.  roy.  8vo) : — Geist  d.  Phi- 
losophic u.  Sprache  d.  alten  Welt  (Liibeck,  1794,  8vo). 
See  Eichhorn,  Bibl.  d.  biblischeu  Literutur  (v,  1022  sq.); 
Pierer,  Universal  Lex.  viii,  360 ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biograph. 
Generale,  xxv,  598. 

Hetzer,  Ludwig,  was  born  in  the  canton  Thurgau, 
Switzerland  (date  unknown).  When  the  Reformation 
broke  out  in  Switzerland  he  was  in  the  vigor  of  youth, 
and  he  entered  into  the  movement  with  great  zeal  and 
energy.  He  was  chaplain  at  Wiideuschwyl,  on  Lake 
Zurich,  in  1523,  and  in  September  of  that  year  he  pub- 
lished a tract  against  images,  under  the  title  Urtheil 
Gottes  wie  man  sich  mit  alien  Gotzen  und  Bildnissen  hal- 
ten  soil,  etc.,  which  ran  through  several  editions,  and 
greatly  stirred  the  popular  mind.  In  October  of  the 
same  year,  when  the  second  conference  on  the  use  of 
images,  etc.,  took  place  at  Zurich,  he  was  appointed  to 
keep  the  minutes,  and  to  publish  an  official  account  of 
them.  Zwingle  and  CEcolampadius  appreciated  his  tal- 
enfs,  especially  his  Hebrew  learning,  and,  in  spite  of  a 
certain  heat  and  rashness  which  marked  his  character, 
they  hoped  much  from  his  activity  in  the  Reformation. 
In  1524  he  went  to  Augsburg,  with  a recommendation 
from  Zwingle,  and  there  his  learning  and  eloquence  soon 
made  him  popidar.  But  within  a year,  owing  to  a the- 
ological dispute  with  Urbanus  Rliegius,in  which  Hetzer 
maintained  Anabaptist  views,  he  was  compelled  to  quit 
Augsburg.  Returning  to  Switzerland,  he  was  kindly 
received  at  Basle  by  CEcolampadius,  and  was  employed 
early  in  1526  in  translating  Zwingle’s  reply  to  Bugen- 
hagen  into  German.  He  seems  to  have  satisfied  both 
Zwingle  and  CEcolampadius  on  this  visit  that  he  was 
not  an  Anabaptist  ; but  before  the  middle  of  the  same 
year  he  was  expelled  from  Zurich  for  preaching  the 
new  doctrine.  At  Strasburg  he  agreed  with  Johann 
Denk  (q.  v.)  to  issue  a translation  of  the  Prophets  of  the 
O.  T.  It  appeared  in  the  spring  of  1527,  and  passed  in 
four  years  through  thirteen  editions.  This  work  is  now 
very  scarce ; two  copies,  however,  belong  to  the  library 
of  the  Crozer  Theological  Seminary,  Upland,  I’a.  Ilct- 
zer  seems  to  have  imbibed  the  theological  views  of 
Denk,  so  far,  at  least,  as  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  is 
concerned,  and  to  have  aided  him  in  spreading  his  doc- 
trines in  Worms,  Landau,  and  other  places.  He  had 
previously  been  charged  with  looseness  of  morals,  and 
in  1827  the  crime  of  adultery  was  charged  upon  him. 
He  was  brought  to  trial  and  beheaded  at  Constance, 
Feb.  3, 1529.  Such  is  the  common  acconnt  of  Hetzer’s 
fife,  founded  on  contemporary  writings  and  letters  of 
Ambrose  Blaurer,  Zwingle,  and  others  of  the  Reformers. 
See  Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xvi,  ch.  iii,  § 5;  Trechsel, 


HEUBNER 


224 


HEWIT 


Antitrinitarier,  i,  13;  Keim,  in  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop. 
vi,  61.  Baptist  writers,  however,  deny  the  charges  of 
Socinianism  and  immorality,  and  assert  that  Hetzer  was 
not  only  a man  of  great  learning,  hut  of  gentle  spirit 
and  deep  piety;  and  that  he  died  a martyr  to  his  Bap- 
tist principles.  See  II.  Osgood,  in  Baptist  Quarterly 
JRevieu July,  1869,  p.  333. 

Heubner,  Heinrich  Leonhard,  a German  theo- 
logian, was  born  at  Lauterbach,  Saxony,  June  2,  1780, 
and  was  educated  at  Wittenberg.  In  1811  he  was  made 
professor  extraordinary  of  theology,  in  1817  third  di- 
rector of  the  Theological  Seminary  at  Wittenberg,  and 
in  1832  first  director.  In  this  office  he  served  faithfully 
and  laboriously  until  his  death,  Feb.  12,  1853.  His  pi- 
ety was  marked,  and  saved  him  from  neology  and  false 
philosophy.  His  writings  include  the  following,  viz. : 
Jnterpretatio  Miraculorum  Novi  Testamenti  historico- 
grammatica  (Wittenb.  1807):  — Kirchenpostille  (Halle, 
1854, 2 vols.) : — Pvedigten  (Berl.  1847 ; Magdeburg,  1851) : 
— Praktische  Erliarung  d.  N.  Test.  (Potsdam,  1855) : — 
Katech ism vs-Predigten  (Halle,  1855);  also  a revised  and 
much  enlarged  edition  of  Buchner’s  Biblische  Handcon- 
cordcmz  (Halle,  1840-1853).  See  Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biogr. 
Generate,  xxv,  590 ; Tholuck,  in  Herzog,  Recd-Encyklop. 
vi,  64. 

Heugh,  Hugh,  D.D.,  a Scotch  Presbyterian  divine, 
was  bom  at  Stirling  Aug.  12,  1782.  His  father  was  a 
minister  in  the  Anti-Burgher  party  of  the  Secession 
Church.  The  son  was  educated  at  the  College  of  Edin- 
burgh, and  licensed  to  preach  in  1804.  In  180G  he  was 
ordained  colleague  to  his  venerable  father,  on  whose 
death  in  1810  he  became  pastor  of  the  Stirling  Church. 
His  pastoral  duties  were  performed  with  great  fidelity: 
he  was  a preacher  of  uncommon  power,  and  he  aided  all 
benevolent  movements  both  by  tongue  and  pen.  In 
1821  he  became  minister  of  the  Regent  Place  Church  in 
Glasgow,  where  he  remained  until  his  death,  June  16, 
1846.  He  published  The  Importance,  of  Early  Piety 
(Glasgow,  1826,  8vo) : — State  of  Religion  in  Geneva  and 
Belgium  (Glasgow,  1844,  12mo).  After  his  death  Dr. 
Macgill  published  his  Life  and  Select  Works  (Glasgow, 
1852,  2d  ed.,  2 vols.  12mo). — Jamieson,  Religions  Biog- 
raphy, p.  262  ; Kitto,  Journal  of  Sacred  Lit.  vi,  410. 

Heumann,  Christoph  August,  a German  theo- 
logian, was  born  at  Altstadt  (duchy  of  Weimar)  August 
3, 1681.  lie  studied  theology  and  philosophy  at  Jena, 
and  in  1705  travelled  through  Germany  and  Holland. 
After  his  return  he  became  inspector  of  the  College  of 
Gottingen  in  1717,  and  in  1734  professor  of  theology  in 
the  University  of  that  city.  He  died  May  1,1764.  His 
principal  works  are  Luthcrus  apocalypticus,  hoc  est  his- 
toria  ecclesiastica  ex  Johannea  Apocalypsi  eruta  (Eise- 
nach, 171 4,8  vo;  Hannover,  1717, 8vo) : — Deutsche  Ueber- 
setznng  d.Neuen  Testaments  (Hann.  1748;  2d  edit.  1750, 
2 vols.  8vo) : — Erliarung  des  Neuen  Testaments  (Hann. 
1750-1763,  12  parts,  8vo),  a work  which  contains  numer- 
ous ingenious  explanations,  along  with  many  errors  and 
paradoxes: — Erweis  dasz  d.  Lehre  d.  reformirten  Kirche 
von  d.  heiligen  Abendnuikl  die  ivahre  sei  (Eisleben,  1764, 
8vo),  etc.  See  Hevne,  Memoria  Ileumanni  (Gottingen, 
1764) ; Ersch  und  Gruber,  Encyklopddie ; Hoefer,  Nouv. 
Biog.  Genkrule,  xxvi,  600;  Herzog,  Real-Encykl.  vi,  65. 

Heusde,  Von.  See  Hofstkde  de  Groot. 

Hewing  (2Sn)  of  wood,  a laborious  service,  chief- 
ly of  slaves  and  aliens,  to  which  the  Gibeonitcs  were 
condemned  for  the  supply  of  the  sanctuary  by  Joshua 
(Josh,  ix,  23).  Some  of  the  Rabbins  understood,  how- 
ever, that  while  the  Hebrew’s  remained  in  camp,  and 
before  the  land  was  divided,  the  Gibeonites  performed 
this  service  for  the  whole  body  of  the  people;  but  even 
they  admit  that  afterwards  their  service  were  limited  to 
the  sanctuary.  This  service  must  have  been  sufficient- 
ly laborious  at  the  great  festivals,  but  not  generally  so, 
as  they  probably  undertook  the  duty  by  turns.  They 
w ere  not  reduced  to  a condition  of  absolute  slavery,  but 
seem  to  have  been  rather  domestic  tributaries  than 


slaves,  their  tribute  being  the  required  personal  service. 
See  Gtbeoxtte.  In  1 Kings  v,  15,  we  read  that  Solo- 
mon “had  fourscore  thousand  hewers  in  the  mountains.” 
The  forests  of  Lebanon  only  wrere  sufficient  to  supply 
the  timber  required  for  building  the  Temple.  Such  of 
these  forests  as  lay  nearest  the  sea  were  in  the  posses- 
sion of  the  Phoenicians,  among  whom  timber  was  in 
such  constant  demand  that  they  had  acquired  great 
skill  in  the  felling  and  transport  of  it.  See  Lebanon, 
It  was  therefore  of  much  importance  that  Hiram  con- 
sented to  employ  large  bodies  of  men  in  Lebanon  to  hew 
timber,  as  well  as  others  to  bring  it  down  to  the  sea-side, 
whence  it  w'as  to  be  taken  along  the  coast  in  floats  to 
Joppa.  The  forests  of  Lebanon  have  now  in  a great 
measure  disappeared,  but  Alima  Dagh  and  Jawur  Dagh 
(the  ancient  Amanus  and  Rhosus),  in  the  north  of  Syria, 
still  furnish  an  abundance  of  valuable  timber,  though 
vast  quantities  have  been  felled  of  late  years  by  the 
Egyptian  government.  See  Axe;  Wood. 

Hewit,  Nathaniel,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minister, 
was  bom  in  New  London,  Conn.,  August  28, 1788.  He 
graduated  A.B.  at  Yale  College  in  1808.  He  commenced 
the  study  of  lawr,  but  soon  became  satisfied  of  his  call  to 
the  ministry,  and  devoted  himself  to  theology,  imder 
the  tuition  of  Dr.  Joel  Benedict,  of  Plainfield,  Conn.  In 
1811  he  wras  licensed  to  preach  by  the  New-London  Con- 
gregational Association,  and,  after  preaching  for  a while 
in  Vermont,  went  to  the  new  theological  seminary  at 
Andover  to  gain  still  further  preparation  for  his  work. 
In  1815  he  was  installed  as  pastor  of  the  Presbyterian 
Church  in  Plattsburg,  N.  Y.  After  some  years  of  very 
successful  labor  there,  he  was  called  to  the  Congrega- 
tional Church  at  Fairfield,  Conn.  Here  he  became  known 
as  one  of  “ the  most  eloquent  and  powerful  preachers  in 
the  country,  and  here  it  wras  that  his  pulpit  from  Sab- 
bath to  Sabbath  sounded  out  that  clarion  blast  of  God’s 
truth  against  intemperance,  which,  with  a similar  and 
equally  powerful  series  of  sermons  at  the  same  time  from 
Dr.  Lyman  Beecher  at  Litchfield,  soon  aroused  the  whole 
Church  and  ministry  of  the  land.”  He  and  Dr.  Beecher 
were  apostles  of  the  American  Temperance  Reformation. 
In  1828  he  resigned  his  charge  at  Fairfield  to  become 
agent  of  the  American  Temperance  Society,  then  newly 
formed.  “ He  addressed  himself  to  this  work  with  the 
spirit  alike  of  a hero  and  a martyr,  and  prosecuted  it 
with  amazing  ability  and  success.  Far  and  wide,  as  he 
reasoned  of  righteousness,  temperance,  and  judgment  to 
come,  with  invincible  logic,  with  bold  earnestness,  with 
fearless  fidelity,  with  torrents — often  cataracts — of  burn- 
ing eloquence,  he  moved,  and  fired,  and  electrified  the 
people.  The  reform  made  rapid  headway.  It  enlisted 
the  great  majority  of  the  moral  and  Christian  portion 
of  society,  the  aged  and  the  young,  reclaiming  many 
and  guarding  multitudes  against  intemperance.  Of  the 
astounding  eloquence  and  effects  of  these  discourses  I 
have  often  heard,  in  forms  and  from  quarters  so  various 
as  to  leave  little  doubt  that  what  Luther  was  to  the 
Reformation,  Wliitefield  to  the  Revival  of  1740,  Wesley 
to  primitive  Methodism,  that  was  Nathaniel  Hewit  to 
the  early  Temperance  Reformation”  (Atwater,  Memorial 
Discourse ).  In  1830  he  became  pastor  of  the  Second 
Congregational  Church  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  In  1831 
he  went  to  England  in  behalf  of  the  cause  of  temper- 
ance, and  his  great  powers  of  eloquence  were  never  more 
signally  displayed  than  on  this  visit.  In  power  of  log- 
ical argument  and  impassioned  deliver}’  few  orators  of 
the  time  exceeded  Dr.  Hewit.  Returning  home,  he  re- 
sumed his  labors  at  Bridgeport,  where  he  served  until 
1853,  when  he  resigned  this  charge,  and  assumed  that 
of  a new  Presbyterian  Church  formed  by  members  of  his 
old  parish,  lie  had  always  been  an  adherent  to  the 
doctrines  of  the  Westminster  Confession.  The  East 
Windsor  (now  Hartford)  Theological  Seminary  owed  its 
existence  and  maintenance  largely  to  him.  In  1862  he 
was  compelled  by  growing  infirmity  to  withdraw  from 
active  duty,  and  an  associate  pastor  was  appointed.  He 
died  at  Bridgeport  February  3, 1867. 


HEY 


225 


HEZEKIAH 


Hey,  John,  D.D.,  a learned  English  divine,  was  born 
in  1734,  and  was  educated  at  Catharine  Hall,  Cambridge. 
After  holding  several  preferments,  he  became  Norris  pro- 
fessor of  divinity  at  Cambridge  in  1780,  then  pastor  of 
Passenham  (Northamptonshire)  and  of  Calverton  (Buck- 
inghamshire), and  died  at  London  in  1815.  His  writ- 
ings, which  are  generally  acute  and  judicious,  include 
Essay  on  Redemption  (1763,  4to)  : — Lectures  in  Divinity 
(Camb.  1796,  4 vols.  8vo;  3d  edit.  1841,  2 vols.  8vo) : — 
Discourses  on  the  Malevolent  Sentiments  (Newport,  1801, 
8vo): — Thoughts  on  the  A thanasian  Creed  (1790,  8vo): 
— Observations  on  the  Writings  of  St.  Paul  (1811,  8vo). 
— Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliographical  i,  1459. 

Heydenreich,  Karl  Heinrich,  a German  philos- 
opher, was  born  February  19, 1764,  at  Stolpen,  in  Sax- 
ony. He  embraced  first  the  philosophy  of  Spinoza,  later 
that  of  Kant,  and  taught  the  Kantian  philosophy  as  pro- 
fessor at  the  University  of  Leipzig  from  1789  to  1797. 
He  died  April  29, 1801.  Among  his  writings  are  Natur 
und  Gott  nach  Spinoza  (Leipzig,  1788)  : — Philosophic  der 
natiirlichen  Religion  (Leipzig,  1791,  2 vols) : — Einleitung 
i.  d.  Studien  der  Philosophic  (Leipzig,  1793)  : — Psycholo- 
gische  Entwickelung  des  A berglaubens  (Leipzig,  1797). — 
Hoefer,  Now.  Biogr.  Generate,  xxiv,  621 ; Krug,  Iland- 
u'orterbuch  d.  philos.  Wissenschaft,  ii,  422. 

Heylin  (or  Heylyn),  Peter,  was  born  Nov.  29, 
1600,  at  Burford,  Oxfordshire.  At  fourteen  he  entered 
Hart  Hall,  Oxford,  and  within  two  years  was  chosen 
demy  of  Magdalen  College.  Here  he  devoted  himself 
to  science,  particularly  to  geography,  on  which  he  wrote 
a treatise  entitled  Microcosmus,  which  gained  him  great 
reputation.  In  1623  he  was  ordained,  and  about  1625 
undertook  an  academical  exercise  at  Oxford,  where  he 
fell  into  a dispute  with  Prideaux,  then  rcgius  professor 
of  divinity,  lie  maintained  the  visibility  and  infalli- 
bility of  the  catholic  Church  (not  the  Roman),  and  raised 
a storm  which  lasted  for  a long  time  in  the  University. 
His  doctrines  recommended  him  to  the  notice  of  Laud, 
then  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells.  In  1628  he  became 
chaplain  to  lord  Danby,  and,  some  time  after,  king’s  chap- 
lain. He  obtained  various  livings  and  clerical  offices 
through  the  patronage  of  Laud,  from  which  he  was  ex- 
pelled by  the  Republicans ; was  the  editor  of  the  Mercu- 
rius  Aulicus , the  Royalist  paper;  recovered  his  prefer- 
ments at  the  Restoration ; and  died  May  8, 1662.  Hey- 
lin was  a fierce  controversialist,  and  a bitter  opponent 
of  the  Puritans,  and  through  these  qualities  he  obtained 
his  various  rapid  preferments.  He  even  went  so  far  in 
his  opposition  to  Puritanism  as  to  write  a History  of  the 
Sabbuth,  vindicating  the  employment  of  the  leisure  honrs 
and  evenings  of  the  Lord’s  day  in  sports  and  recreations. 
In  theology  he  was  an  Armiuian  of  the  latitudinarian 
sort  (see  his  Historia  Cluing- A rticularis,  1659).  His  Ex- 
amen  Ilistoricum  contained  an  attack  on  Thomas  Fuller 
which  brought  on  a bitter  controversy  with  that  emi- 
nent writer.  He  wrote  The  History  of  St.  George  and 
of  the  Order  of  the  Garter  (2d  edit.  Loud.  1633,  4to) : — 
Ecclesia  Restaurata : the  History  of  the  English  Refor- 
mation (1674,  foL ; new  edit,  by  Robertson,  Loud.  1849,  2 
vols.8vo) : — Sermons  (London,  1659, 4to) : — Life  of  A bp. 
Laud  (Lond.  1647,  foL;  several  editions) : — yErius  Re- 
dirivus,  a History  of  the  Presbyterians  (2d  edit.  London, 
1672,  fol.)  : — Theologia  Veterum , on  the  Apostles’  Creed 
(Lond.  1673,  fol.) ; with  many  controversial  tracts,  etc. 
His  life  is  prefixed  to  the  Ecclesia  Restaurata  (edit,  of 
1849).  See  Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  13  sq. ; AUiboue,  Dic- 
tionary of  Authors,  i,  838. 

Heylyn,  John,  D.D.,  an  eminent  English  divine  and 
prebendary  of  Westminster.  He  was  deeply  read  in  the 
Mystic  divines,  and  was  himself  called  “ the  Mystic  doc- 
tor.” He  died  about  1760,  leaving  Theological  Lectures 
at  Westminster  Abbey  (Lond.  1749-61,  2 vols.  4to),  con- 
taining an  “interpretation  of  the  New  Test. C— Sermons 
(1770, 12mo) : — Discourses  (1793, 2 vols.  8vo).  See  Black- 
wood, Magazine,  xxv,  33;  Allibone,  Dictionary  of  Au- 
thors, i,  838. 


Hey  wood,  Oliver,  an  English  Nonconformist  di- 
vine, was  born  at  Bolton,  1629,  and  admitted  at  Trinity, 
Cambridge,  1647.  He  became  rector  at  Halifax  in  1652, 
and  was  deprived  at  the  Restoration.  After  much  suf- 
fering from  poverty,  he  died  in  1702.  Ilis  writings  on 
practical  religion  were  quite  numerous,  and  may  be 
found  in  his  Whole  IPor£s  noio  first  collected  (Idle,  1827, 
5 vols.  8vo).  See  also  Hunter,  Life  of  Ileywood  (Lond. 
1844,  8vo). 

Hez'eki  (Ileb.  CliizkV , strong;  Sept.  ’A£«- 

ki),  one  of  the  “ sons”  of  Elpaal,  a chief  Benjamite  resi- 
dent at  Jerusalem  (1  Chron.  viii,  17).  B.C.  apparently 
cir.  598. 

Hezeki'ah  (Heb.  Chizkiyah ',  pm,  whom  Jeho- 
vah has  strengthened,  2 Kings  xviii,  1,  10,  14,  15,  16;  1 
Chron.  iii,  23;  Neli.  vii,  21;  Prov.  xxv,  1 ; “Hizkiah,” 
Nell,  x,  17 ; Zeph.  i,  1 ; also  in  the  prosthetic  form  Ye- 
chishiycih •"T’pjrP,  Ezra  ii,  16;  IIos.  i,  1 ; Micah  i,  1 ; 
elsewhere  in  the  prolonged  form  Chizkiya'hit,  m^pm 
[iu  2 Kings  xx,  10;  1 Chron.  iv,  41;  2 Chron.  xxviii, 
27;  xxix,  1,  20,  30,  31,  36;  xxx,  1,  18,  20,  22;  xxxi,  2, 
8,  9,  11,  13,  20;  xxxii,  2,  8,  9, 11, 12,  16,  17,  20,  22,  23, 
24,  25,  26,  27,  30,  32,  33;  xxxiii,  3;  Isa.  i,  1 ; Jer.  xv, 
4,  it  is  both  prosthetic  and  prolonged,  Yechizkiya'hu, 
JirMpjrP] ; Sept.,  Josephus,  and  N.  Test.  ’E&Kiat;),  the 
name  of  four  men.  See  also  Jkiiizkiah. 

1.  The  thirteenth  king  (reckoning  Athaliah)  of  the 
separate  kingdom  of  Judah,  son  of  Aliaz  and  Abi  or  Abi- 
jah  (2  Kings  xviii,  2 ; 2 Chron.  xxix,  1),  born  B.C.  751— 
750  (2  Kings  xviii,  2),  and  his  father’s  successor  on.  the 
throne  for  twenty-nine  years,  B.C.  726-697.  In  both 
the  above  texts  he  is  stated  to  have  been  twenty-five 
years  old  at  his  accession ; but  some,  computing  (from  a 
comparison  with  2 Chron.  xxviii,  1)  that  Aliaz  died  at 
the  age  of  thirty-six,  make  Hezekiah  only  twenty  years 
old  at  liis  accession  (reading  3 for  !"!3),  as  otherwise  he 
would  have  been  born  when  Aliaz  was  a boy  eleven 
years  old.  This,  indeed,  is  not  impossible  (Ilierou.  Ep. 
ad  Vitalem,  132,  quoted  by  Boehart,  Geogr.  Sacr.  p.  920; 
see  Iveil  on  2 Kings  xviii,  1 ; Ivnobel,  Jes.  p.  22,  etc.) ; 
but  others  snppose  that  A haz  was  twenty-five  and  not 
twenty  years  old  at  his  accession  (Sept.,  Syr.,  Arab.,  2 
Chron.  xxviii,  1),  reading  !"!3  for  3 in  2 Kings  xvi,  2. 
Neither  of  these  suppositions,  however,  is  necessary,  for 
Aliaz  was  fifty  years  old  at  his  death,  and  the  date  there 
given  of  the  accession  of  Ahaz  is  simply  that  of  his 
viceroyship  or  association  with  his  father.  See  Aiiaz. 

The  history  of  Hezekiah’s  reign  is  contained  in  2 
Kings  xviii,  20 ; Isa.  xxxvi-xxxix,  and  2 Chron.  xxix- 
xxxii,  illustrated  by  contemporary  prophecies  of  Isaiah 
and  Micah.  He  is  represented  as  a great  and  good  king 
(2  Kings  xviii,  5,  6),  who  set  himself,  immediately  on 
his  accession,  to  abolish  idolatry,  and  restore  the  worship 
of  Jehovah,  which  had  been  neglected  during  the  care- 
less and  idolatrous  reign  of  his  father.  This  consecra- 
tion was  accompanied  by  a revival  of  the  theocratic 
spirit,  so  strict  as  not  even  to  spare  “ the  high  places,” 
which,  though  tolerated  by  many  well-intentioned  kings, 
had  naturally  been  profaned  by  the  worship  of  images 
and  Asherahs  (2  Kings  xviii,  4).  On  the  extreme  im- 
portance and  probable  consequences  of  this  measure,  see 
High  Place.  A still  more  decisive  act  was  the  de- 
struction of  a brazen  serpent,  said  to  have  been  the  one 
used  by  Moses  in  the  miraculous  healing  of  the  Israelites 
(Numb,  xxi,  9),  which  had  been  removed  to  Jerusalem, 
and  had  become,  “ down  to  those  days,”  an  object  of  ad- 
oration, partly  in  consequence  of  its  venerable  character 
as  a relic,  and  partly,  perhaps,  from  some  dim  tendencies 
to  the  ophiolatry  common  in  ancient  times  (Ewald,  Gesch. 
iii,  622).  To  break  up  a figure  so  curious  and  so  highly 
honored  showed  a strong  mind  as  well  as  a clear-sighted 
zeal,  and  Hezekiah  briefly  justified  his  procedure  by  call- 
ing the  image  “,n’3n3,  “ a brazen  thing,”  possibly  with 
a contemptuous  play  on  the  word  w‘n3,  “ a serpent.” 


IV— P 


HEZEKIAH 


226 


HEZEKIAH 


How  necessary  this  was  in  such  times  may  be  inferred 
from  the  fact  that  “ the  brazen  serpent”  is,  or  was,  rever- 
enced in  the  Church  of  St.  Ambrose  at  Milan  (I’rideaux, 
Connect,  i,  19,  Oxf.  ed.).  The  history  of  this  Keforma- 
tion,  of  which  2 Kings  xviii,  4 sq.  gives  only  a concise 
summary,  is  copiously  related,  from  the  Levitical  point 
of  view, "in  2 Cliron.  xxix  sq.  It  commenced  with  the 
cleansing  of  the  Temple  “ in  the  first  month”  of  Heze- 
kiah’s first  year,  i.  e.  in  the  month  Nisan  next  after  his 
accession,  and  was  followed  in  the  next  month  (because 
at  the  regular  season  neither  Levites  nor  Temple  were 
in  a due  state  of  preparation)  by  a great  Passover,  ex- 
tended to  fourteen  days,  to  which  not  only  all  Judah  was 
summoned,  but  also  the  “ remnant”  of  the  Ten  Tribes, 
some  of  whom  accepted  the  invitation.  Some  writers 
(as  Jalm,  Keil,  and  Caspari)  contend  that  this  passover 
must  have  been  subsequent  to  the  fall  of  Samaria,  alleg- 
ing that  the  mention  of  the  “remnant”  (2  Cliron.  xxx, 
6)  is  unsuitable  to  an  earlier  period,  and  that,  while  the 
kingdom  of  Samaria  still  subsisted,  Hezekiah’s  messen- 
gers would  not  have  been  suffered  to  pass  through  the 
land,  much  less  would  the  destruction  of  the  high  places 
in  Ephraim  and  Manasseli  have  been  permitted  (xxxi, 
1).  But  the  intention  of  the  chronicler  at  least  is  plain 
enough  : the  connection  of  xxix,  17, “the  first  month,” 
with  xxx,  2,  “the  second  month,”  admits  of  but  one  con- 
struction— that  both  are  meant  to  belong  to  one  and  the 
same  year,  the  first  of  the  reign.  Accordingly,  Thenius, 
in  the  Kgf.  exeg.  Hdb.  2 Kings,  p.  379,  urges  this  as  an 
argument  against  the  historical  character  of  the  whole 
narrative  of  this  passover,  which,  he  thinks,  “ rendered 
antecedently  improbable  by  the  silence  of  the  Book  of 
Kings,  is  perhaps  completely  refuted  by  2 Kings  xxiii, 
22.  The  author  of  the  story,  wishing  to  place  in  the 
strongest  light  Hezekiah’s  zeal  for  religion,  represents 
him,  not  Josiah,  as  the  restorer  of  the  Passover  after  long 
desuetude,  and  this  in  the  very  beginning  of  his  reign, 
without,  perhaps,  caring  to  reflect  that  the  final  deporta- 
tion of  the  Ten  Tribes,  implied  in  xxx,  6,  had  not  then 
taken  place.”  But  2 Kings  xxiii,  22,  taken  in  connec- 
tion, as  it  ought  to  be,  with  the  preceding  verse,  is  per- 
fectly compatible  with  the  account  in  the  Chronicles. 
It.  says : “ Surely  such  a Passover” — one  kept  in  all  re- 
spects “ as  it  is  written  in  the  Book  of  the  Covenant” — 
“was  not  holden  from  the  time  of  the  Judges,” etc.: 
whereas  Hezekiah’s  Passover,  though  kept  with  even 
greater  joy  and  fervor  than  Josiah’s,  was  held  neither  at 
the  appointed  season,  nor  in  strict  conformity  with  the 
law.  Nor  is  it  necessary  to  suppose  that  by  “ the  rem- 
nant” the  chronicler  understood  those  who  were  left  by 
Shalmaneser.  Bather,  his  view  is,  that  the  people  of  the 
Ten  Tribes,  untaught  by  the  judgments  brought  upon 
them  by  former  reverses  and  partial  deportations  (un- 
der Tiglath-Pileser),  with  respect  to  which  they  might 
well  be  called  a “remnant”  (comp,  the  very  similar  terms 
in  which  even  Judah  is  spoken  of,  xxxix,8, 9),  and  scorn- 
fully rejecting  the  last  call  to  repentance,  brought  upon 
themselves  their  final  judgment  and  complete  overthrow 
(Bertlieau,  Kef  exeg.  Ildb.  2 Chron.  p.  395  sq.).  Those, 
however,  of  the  Ten  Tribes  who  had  taken  part  in  the 
solemnity  were  thereby  (such  is  evidently  the  chroni- 
cler’s view  of  the  matter,  xxxi,  1)  inspired  with  a zeal 
for  the  true  religion  which  enabled  them,  on  their  return 
home,  in  defiance  of  all  opposition  on  the  part  of  the 
scorners  or  of  Hosliea,  to  effect  a destruction  of  the  high 
places  and  altars  in  Ephraim  and  Manasseh,  as  complete 
as  was  effected  in  Jerusalem  before,  and  in  Judah  after 
the  Passover. 

That  this  prudent  and  pious  king  was  not  deficient  in 
military  qualities  is  shoAvn  by  his  successes  against  the 
Philistines,  seemingly  in  the  early  part  of  his  reign,  be- 
fore the  overthrow  of  Sennacherib  (2  Kings  xviii,  8),  and 
by  the  efficient  measures  taken  by  him  for  the  defence 
of  Jerusalem  against  the  Assyrians.  Hezekiah  also  as- 
siduously cultivated  the  arts  of  peace,  and  by  wise  man- 
agement of  finance,  and  the  attention  which,  after  the 
example  of  David  and  Uzziah,  he  paid  to  agriculture 


! and  the  increase  of  flocks  and  herds,  he  became  possess- 
I ed,  even  in  troubled  times,  of  an  ample  exchequer  and 
| treasures  of  wealth  (2  Chron.  xxxii,  27-29;  2 Kings  xx, 
13 ; Isa.  xxxix,  2).  Himself  a sacred  poet,  and  proba- 
bly the  author  of  other  psalms  besides  that  in  Isa. 
xxxviii,  he  seems  to  have  collected  the  psalms  of  David 
and  Asaph  for  the  Temple  worship,  and  certainly  em- 
ployed competent  scribes  to  complete  the  collection  of 
Solomon’s  Proverbs  (Prov.  xxv,  1).  He  appears  also  to 
have  taken  order  for  the  preservation  of  genealogical 
records  (Browne,  Review  of  Lepsius  on  Lible  Chronology , 
in  Arnold’s  Theological  Critic , i,  59  sq.). 

By  a rare  and  happy  providence,  this  most  pious  of 
kings  was  confirmed  in  his  faithfulness  and  seconded  in 
his  endeavors  by  the  powerfid  assistance  of  the  noblest 
and  most  eloquent  of  prophets.  The  influence  of  Isaiah 
was,  however,  not  gained  without  a struggle  with  the 
“ scornful”  remnant  of  the  former  royal  counselors  (Isa. 
xxviii,  14),  who  in  all  probability  recommended  to  the 
king  such  alliances  and  compromises  as  would  be  in  uni- 
son rather  with  the  dictates  of  political  expediency  than 
with  that  sole  unhesitating  trust  in  the  arm  of  Jehovah 
which  the  prophets  inculcated.  The  leading  man  of 
this  cabinet  was  Shebna,  who,  from  the  omission  of  his 
father’s  name,  and  the  expression  in  Isa.  xxii,  16  (see 
Blunt,  Undes.  Coincidences),  was  probably  a foreigner, 
perhaps  a Syrian  (Hitzig).  At  the  instance  of  Isaiah, 
he  seems  to  have  been  subsequently  degraded  from  the 
high  post  of  prefect  of  the  palace  (which  office  was  given 
to  Eliakim,  Isa.  xxii,  21),  to  the  inferior,  though  still 
honorable  station  of  state  secretary  (“ISO,  2 Kings  xviii, 
18) ; the  further  punishment  of  exile  with  which  Isaiah 
had  threatened  him  (xxii,  18)  being  possibly  forgiven 
on  his  amendment,  of  which  we  have  some  traces  in 
Isa.  xxxvii,  sq.  (Ewald,  Gesch.  iii,  617). 

At  the  head  of  a repentant  and  united  people,  Heze- 
kiah ventured  to  assume  the  aggressive  against  the 
Philistines,  and  in  a series  of  victories  not  only  rewon 
the  cities  which  his  father  bad  lost  (2  Chron.  xxviii, 
18),  but  even  dispossessed  them  of  their  own  cities  ex- 
cept Gaza  (2  Kings  xviii,  8)  and  Gath  (Josephus,  A nt. 
ix,  13, 3).  It  was  perhaps  to  the  purposes  of  this  war 
that  he  applied  the  money  which  would  otherwise  have 
been  used  to  pay  the  tribute  exacted  by  Shalmaneser, 
according  to  the  agreement  of  Aliaz  with  his  predeces- 
sor, Tiglath-Pileser.  "When  the  king  of  Assyria  applied 
for  this  impost,  Hezekiah  refused  it,  and  omitted  to  send 
even  the  usual  presents  (2  Kings  xviii,  7),  a line  of 
conduct  to  which  he  does  not  appear  to  have  been  en- 
couraged by  any  exhortations  of  his  prophetic  guide. 

Instant  war  was  averted  by  the  heroic  and  long-con- 
tinued resistance  of  the  Tyrians  under  their  king  Elu- 
loeus  (Josephus,  Ant.  ix,  14),  against  a siege,  which  was 
abandoned  only  in  the  fifth  year  (Grote,  Greece,  iii,  359, 
4tli  edit.),  when  it  was  found  to  be  impracticable.  This 
must  have  been  a critical  and  intensely  anxious  period 
for  Jerusalem,  and  Hezekiah  used  every  available  means 
to  strengthen  his  position,  and  render  his  capital  im- 
pregnable (2  Kings  xx,  20 ; 2 Chron.  xxxii,  3-5,  30;  Isa. 
xxii,  8-11;  xxxiii,18;  and  to  these  events  Ewald  also 
refers,  Psa.  xlviii,  13).  But  while  all  Judaea  trembled 
with  anticipation  of  Assyrian  invasion,  and  while  Sheb- 
na and  others  were  relying  “ in  the  shadow  of  Egypt,” 
Isaiah’s  brave  heart  did  not  fail,  and  he  even  denounced 
the  wrath  of  God  against  the  proud  and  sinful  mereliant- 
city  (Isa.  xxiii),  which  now  seemed  to  be  the  main  bul- 
wark of  Judaea  against  immediate  attack. 

At  what  time  it  wras  that  Hezekiah  “rebelled  against 
the  king  of  Assyria,  and  served  him  not,”  ive  do  not 
learn  from  the  direct  history  : in  the  brief  summary,  2 
Kings  xviii,  7,  8 (for  such  it  clearly  is),  of  the  successes 
with  which  the  Lord  prospered  him,  that  particular 
statement  only  introduces  v'hat  is  more  fully  detailed 
in  the  sequel  (xviii,  13 ; xix,  37).  That  it  precedes  the 
notice  of  the  overthrow  of  Samaria  (ver.  9 sq.),  does  not 
warrant  the  inference  that  the  assertion  of  independence 


HEZEKIAH 


227 


HEZEIvIAII 


belongs  to  the  earliest  years  of  Ilezekiah’s  reign  (see  Wi- 
ner, Real- 1 Vorterb.  i,  497,  n.  2).  Ewald,  however,  thinks 
otherwise:  in  the  absence  of  direct  evidence,  making 
history,  as  his  manner  is,  out  of  his  own  peremptory  in- 
terpretation of  certain  passages  of  Isaiah  (ch.  i and  xxii, 
1-14),  he  informs  us  that  Hezekiah,  holding  his  kingdom 
absolved  by  the  death  of  Ahaz  from  the  obligations  con- 
tracted with  Tiglath-Pileser,  prepared  himself  from  the 
tirst  to  resist  the  demands  of  Assyria,  and  put  Jerusalem 
in  a state  of  defence.  (It  matters  not  to  Ewald  that  the 
measures  noted  in  2 Kings  xx,  20 ; 2 Cliron.  xxxii,  3-5, 
30,  are  in  the  latter  passage  expressly  assigned  to  the 
time  of  Sennacherib’s  advance  upon  Jerusalem.)  “From 
Shalmaneser’s  hosts  at  that  time  stationed  in  Phoenicia 
and  elsewhere  in  the  neighborhood  of  Judah,  forces  were 
detached  which  laid  waste  the  land  in  all  directions : an 
army  sent  against  them  from  Jerusalem,  seized  with  panic 
at  the  sight  of  the  unwonted  enemy,  took  to  flight,  and, 
Jerusalem  now  lying  helplessly  exposed,  a peace  was 
concluded  in  all  haste  upon  the  stipulation  of  a yearly 
tribute,  and  the  ignominious  deliverance  was  celebrated 
with  feastings  in  Jerusalem”  ( Geseh . des  V.  Israel,  iii,  330 
sq.) : all  of  which  rests  upon  the  supposition  that  Ew- 
ald’s  interpretation  of  Isa.  i,  22  is  the  only  possible  one  : 
it  cannot  be  said  to  be  on  record  as  history. 

As  gathered  from  the  Scriptures  only,  the  course  of 
events  appears  to  have  been  as  follows : Ahaz  had  placed 
his  kingdom  as  tributary  under  the  protection  of  Tig- 
lath-Pileser (2  Kings  xvi,  7).  It  would  seem  from  Isa. 
x,  27,  and  xxviii,  22,  that  in  the  time  of  Shalmaneser, 
to  wliich  the  latter  passage  certainly,  and  the  former 
probably,  belongs,  Judah  was  still  under  the  yoke  of  this 
dependence.  The  fact  that  Sargon  (whether  or  not  the 
same  with  the  Shalmaneser  of  the  history),  in  his  expe- 
dition against  Egypt,  left  Judah  untouched  (Isa.  xx), 
implies  that  Judah  had  not  yet  asserted  its  indepen- 
dence. A powerfid  party,  indeed,  was  scheming  for  re- 
volt from  Assyria  and  a league  with  Egypt;  but  there 
appears  no  reason  to  believe  that  Hezekiah  all  along  fa- 
vored a policy  which  Isaiah  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  to 
the  last,  strenuously  condemned.  It  was  not  till  after 
the  accession  of  Sennacherib  that  Hezekiah  refused  the 
tribute,  and  at  the  instigation  of  his  nobles  made  a 
league  with  Egypt  by  ambasadors  sent  to  Zoan  (Tanis) 
(Isa.  xxx,  xxxi ; compare  xxxvi,  6-9).  (Some,  indeed 
[as  Ewald  and  Caspari],  place  Isa.  xxix-xxxii  before 
the  fall  of  Samaria,  to  which  time  ch.  xxviii  must  un- 
questionably be  assigned.  Possibly  ch.  xxix  may  be- 
long to  the  same  time,  and  ver.  15  may  refer  to  plottings 
for  a league  with  Egypt  already  carried  on  in  secret. 
Knobel,  Kgf.  exeg.  Ihlb.  p.  215,  223,  decides  too  peremp- 
torily that  such  must  be  the  reference,  and  consequently 
that  ch.  xxix  falls  only  a little  earlier  than  the  follow- 
ing chapters,  where  the  league  is  openly  denounced,  viz. 
in  the  early  part  of  the  reign  of  Sennacherib.) 

The  subsequent  history,  as  gathered  from  the  Scrip- 
tures, compared  with  the  notices  on  the  ancient  monu- 
ments, is  thought  to  be  as  follows.  Sargon  was  suc- 
ceeded by  his  son  Sennacherib,  whose  two  invasions 
occupy  the  greater  part  of  the  Scripture  records  con- 
cerning the  reign  of  Hezekiah.  The  first  of  these  took 
place  in  the  third  year  of  Sennacherib,  and  occupies  only 
three  verses  (2  Kings  xviii,  13-16),  though  the  route  of 
the  advancing  Assyrians  may  be  traced  in  Isa.  x,  5 ; xi. 
The  rumor  of  the  invasion  redoubled  Ilezekiah’s  exer- 
tions, and  he  prepared  for  a siege  by  providing  offensive 
and  defensive  armor,  stopping  up  the  wells,  and  divert- 
ing the  watercourses,  conducting  the  water  of  Gihou 
into  the  city  by  a subterranean  canal  (Ecclus.  xlviii,  17. 
For  a similar  precaution  taken  by  the  Mohammedans, 
see  Will.  Tvr.  viii,  7,  Keil).  But  the  main  hope  of  the 
political  faction  was  the  alliance  with  Egypt,  and  they 
seem  to  have  sought  it  by  presents  and  private  entreat- 
ies (Isa.  xxx,  6),  especially  with  a view  to  obtaining 
chariots  and  cavalry  (Isa.  xxxi,  1-3),  which  was  the 
weakest  arm  of  the  Jewish  service,  as  we  see  from  the 
derision  which  it  excited  (2  Kings  xviii,  23).  Such 


overtures  kindled  Isaiah’s  indignation,  and  Shebna  may 
have  lost  his  high  office  for  recommending  them.  The 
prophet  clearly  saw  that  Egypt  was  too  weak  and  faith- 
less to  be  serviceable,  and  the  applications  to  Pharaoh 
(who  is  compared  by  Rabshakeh  to  one  of  the  weak 
reeds  of  his  own  river)  implied  a want  of  trust  in  the 
help  of  God.  But  Isaiah  did  not  disapprove  of  the  spon- 
taneously proffered  assistance  of  the  tall  and  warlike 
Ethiopians  (Isa.  xviii,  2,  7,  acc.  to  Ewald’s  transl.),  be- 
cause he  may  have  regarded  it  as  a providential  aid. 

The  account  given  of  this  first  invasion  in  the  cunei- 
form “Annals  of  Sennacherib”  is  that  he  attacked  Heze- 
kiah because  the  Ekronites  had  sent  their  king  Padiya 
(or  “ Iladdiya,”  acc.  to  Col.  Itawlinson)  as  a prisoner  to 
Jerusalem  (comp.  2 Kings  xviii,  8) ; that  he  took  forty- 
six  cities  (“all  the  fenced  cities”  in  2 Kings  xviii,  13  is 
apparently  a general  expression ; compare  xix,  8)  and 
200,000  prisoners;  that  he  besieged  Jerusalem  with 
mounds  (corap.  2 Kings  xix,  32) ; and  although  Heze- 
kiah promised  to  pay  800  talents  of  silver  (of  which  per- 
haps only  300  were  ever  paid)  and  30  of  gold  (2  Kings 
xviii,  14 ; but  see  Lavard,  Kin.  and  Bab.  p.  148),  yet, 
not  content  with  this,  he  mulcted  him  of  a part  of  his 
dominions,  and  gave  them  to  the  kings  of  Ekron,  Asli- 
dod,  and  Gaza  (Rawlinson,  Ilerod.  i,  475  sq.).  So  im- 
portant was  this  expedition  that  Demetrius,  the  Jewish 
historian,  even  attributes  to  Sennacherib  the  Great 
Captivity  (Clem.  Alexand.  Strom,  p.  147,  ed.  Sylb.).  In 
almost  every  particular  this  account  agrees  with  the 
notice  in  Scripture,  and  we  may  see  a reason  for  so  great 
a sacrifice  on  the  part  of  Hezekiah  in  the  glimpse  which 
Isaiah  gives  us  of  his  capital  city  driven  by  desperation 
into  licentious  and  impious  mirth  (xxii,  12-14).  This 
campaign  must  at  least  have  had  the  one  good  residt  of 
proving  the  worthlessness  of  the  Egyptian  alliance ; for 
at  a place  called  Altagu  (the  Eltekon  of  Josh,  xv,  59?) 
Sennacherib  inflicted  an  overwhelming  defeat  on  the 
combined  forces  of  Egypt  and  Ethiopia,  which  had  come 
to  the  assistance  of  Ekron.  But  Isaiah  regarded  the 
purchased  treaty  as  a cowardly  defection,  and  the  sight 
of  his  fellow-citizens  gazing  peacefully  from  the  house- 
tops on  the  bright  array  of  the  car-borne  and  quivered 
Assyrians  filled  him  with  indignation  and  despair  (Isa. 
xxii,  1-7,  if  the  latest  explanations  of  this  chapter  be 
correct). 

Hezekiah ’s  bribe  (or  fine)  brought  a temporary  re- 
lease, for  the  Assyrians  marched  into  Egypt,  where,  if 
Herodotus  (ii,  ldi)  and  Josephus  (Ant.  x,  1-3)  are  to  be 
trusted,  they  advanced  without  resistance  to  Pelusium, 
owing  to  the  hatred  of  the  warrior-caste  against  Sethos, 
the  king-priest  of  Pthah,  who  had,  in  his  priestly  predi- 
lections, interfered  with  their  prerogatives.  In  spite  of 
this  advantage,  Sennacherib  was  forced  to  raise  the 
siege  of  Pelusium,  by  the  advance  of  Tirhakah  or  Tara- 
kos,  the  ally  of  Scthos  and  Hezekiah,  who  afterwards 
united  the  crowns  of  Egypt  and  Ethiopia.  This  mag- 
nificent Ethiopian  hero,  who  had  extended  his  conquests 
to  the  Pillars  of  Hercules  (Strabo,  xv,  472),  was  indeed 
a formidable  antagonist.  His  deeds  are  recorded  in  a 
temple  at  Medinet-Abu,  but  the  jealousy  of  the  Mem- 
phites (Wilkinson,  .4  nc.  Egypt,  i,  141)  concealed  his  as- 
sistance, and  attributed  the  deliverance  of  Scthos  to  the 
miraculous  interposition  of  an  army  of  mice  (Ilerod.  ii, 
141).  This  story  may  have  had  its  source,  however, 
not  in  jealousy,  but  in  the  use  of  a mouse  as  the  emblem 
of  destruction  (Horapoll.  llierogl.  i.  50;  IJawlinson,  lie- 
rod.  ad  loc.),  and  of  some  sort  of  disease  or  plague  (?  1 
Sam.  vi,  18 ; Jahn,  A rch.  Bihl.  § 185).  The  legend 
doubtless  gained  ground  from  the  extraordinary  circum- 
stance which  ruined  the  army  of  Sennacherib. 

Returning  from  his  futile  expedition  (a-paKTog  dvt- 
Xo'jptjm,  Josephus,  Ant.  x,  1,  4),  Sennacherib  “dealt 
treacherously”  with  Hezekiah  (Isa.  xxxiii,  1)  by  attack- 
ing the  stronghold  of  Lachish.  This  was  the  commence- 
ment of  that  second  invasion,  respecting  which  we  have 
such  full  details  in  2 Kings  xviii,  17  sq.:  2 Chron.  xxxii, 
9 sq. ; Isa.  xxxvi.  That  there  were  two  invasions  (con- 


HEZEKIAH 


228 


HEZEKIAH 


trary  to  the  opinion  of  Layard,  Bosanqnet,  Vance  Smith, 
etc.)  is  clearly  proved  by  the  details  of  the  first  given 
in  the  Assyrian  annals  (see  Iiawlinson,  Herod,  i,  477). 
Although  the  annals  of  Sennacherib  on  the  great  cylin- 
der in  the  British  Museum  reach  to  the  end  of  his  eighth 
year,  and  this  second  invasion  belongs  to  his  fifth  year, 
yet  no  allusion  to  it  has  been  found.  So  shameful  a 
disaster  was  naturally  concealed  by  national  vanity. 
From  Lachish  he  sent  against  Jerusalem  an  army  under 
two  officers  and  his  cup-bearer,  the  orator  Iiabshakch, 
with  a blasphemous  and  insulting  summons  to  surren- 
der, deriding  Ilezekiali’s  hopes  of  Egyptian  succor,  and 
apparently  endeavoring  to  inspire  the  people  with  dis- 
trust of  his  religious  innovations  (2  Kings  xviii,  22,  25, 
80).  The  reiteration  and  peculiarity  of  the  latter  argu- 
ment, together  with  Rabsliakch’s  fluent  mastery  of  He- 
brew (which  he  used  to  tempt  the  people  from  their 
allegiance  by  a glowing  promise,  ver.  31, 82),  give  coun- 
tenance to  the  supposition  that  lie  was  an  apostate  Jew. 
Hezekiah’s  ministers  were  thrown  into  anguish  and  dis- 
may; but  the  undaunted  Isaiah  hurled  back  threaten- 
ing for  threatening  with  unrivalled  eloquence  and  force. 
He  even  prophesied  that  the  fires  of  Tophet  were  al- 
ready burning  in  expectancy  of  the  Assyrian  corpses 
which  were  destined  to  feed  their  flame.  Meanwhile 
Sennacherib,  having  taken  Lachish  (an  event  possibly 
depicted  on  a series  of  slabs  at  Mosul,  Layard,  Nin.  and 
Bab.  p.  148-152),  was  besieging  Libnah,  when,  alarmed 
by  a “rumor”  of  Tirhakah’s  advance  (to  avenge  the  de- 
feat at  Altagu?),  he  was  forced  to  relinquish  once  more 
his  immediate  designs,  and  content  himself  with  a defi- 
ant letter  to  Hezekiah.  "Whether  on  the  occasion  he 
encountered  and  defeated  the  Ethiopians  (as  Prideaux 
precariously  infers  from  Isa.  xx,  Connect,  i,  26),  or  not, 
we  cannot  tell.  The  next  event  of  the  campaign  about 
which  we  are  informed  is  that  the  Jewish  king,  with 
simple  piety,  prayed  to  God  with  Sennacherib’s  letter 
outspread  before  him  (comp.  1 Macc.iii,48),  and  received 
a promise  of  immediate  deliverance.  Accordingly  “ that 
night  the  angel  of  the  Lord  went  out  and  smote  in  the 
camp  of  the  Assyrians  185,000  men.” 

There  is  no  doubt  that  some  secondary  cause  was 
employed  in  the  accomplishment  of  this  event.  We  are 
certainly  “not  to  suppose,”  as  Dr.  Johnson  observed, 
“ that  the  angel  went  about  with  a sword  in  his  hand 
stabbing  them  one  by  one,  but  that  some  powerful  natu- 
ral agent  was  employed.”  The  Babylonish  Talmud  and 
some  of  the  Targums  attribute  it  to  storms  of  lightning 
(Vitringa,  Yogel,  etc.) ; Prideaux,  Heine  (Da  causa 
Strug.  Assyr.  Berl.  1761),  Harmer,  and  Faber  to  the  si- 
moom ; It.  Jose  (in  Seder  Olarn  Itabba),  Marsham,  Ush- 
er, Preiss  {Be  causa  clad.  Assyr.  Gottingen,  1776),  to  a 
nocturnal  attack  by  Tirhakah ; Paulus  to  a poisoning 
of  the  waters;  and,  finally,  Josephus  {Ant.  x,  1,  4 and  5), 
followed  by  an  immense  majority  of  ancient  and  modern 
commentators  (including  Michaelis,  Ddderlein,  Dathe, 
Heusler,  Bauer,  Ditmar,  Gcsenius,  Maurer,  Ivnobel,  etc., 
and  even  Keil),  to  the  pestilence  (compare  2 Sam.  xxiv, 
15, 16).  This  would  be  a cause  not  only  adequate  (Jus- 
tin, xix,  11 ; Diodor,  xix,  484;  see  the  other  instances 
quoted  by  Eosenmuller,  Keil,  Jalin,  etc.),  but  most  prob- 
able in  itself,  from  the  crowded  and  terrified  state  of  the 
camp.  There  is,  therefore,  no  necessity  to  adopt  the  in- 
genious conjectures  by  which  Ddderlein,  Koppe,  and 
Wessler  endeavor  to  get  rid  of  the  large  number  185,000. 
It  is  not  said  where  the  event  occurred:  the  prophe- 
cies concerning  it,  Isa.  x-xxxvii,  seem  to  denote  the 
neighborhood  of  Jerusalem,  as  would  Psa.  lxxvi,  if  it 
was  written  at  that  time.  On  the  other  hand,  the  nar- 
rative would  probably  have  been  fuller  had  the  over- 
throw, with  its  attendant  opportunities  of  beholding  the 
bodies  of  their  dreaded  enemies  and  of  gathering  great 
spoil,  befallen  near  Jerusalem,  or  even  within  the  imme- 
diate limits  of  Judah.  That  version  of  the  story  which 
reached  Herodotus  (ii,  140) — for  few  after  Josephus  will 
hold  with  Ewald  {Gesch.  iii,  336)  that  the  story  is  not 
substantially  the  same — indicates  the  frontier  of  Egypt, 


near  Pelusium,  as  the  scene  of  the  disaster.  The  Assyr- 
ian army  would  probably  break  up  from  Libnah  on  the 
tidings  of  Tirhakah’s  approach,  and  advance  to  meet 
him.  In  ascribing  it  to  a vast  swarm  of  field-mice, 
which,  devouring  the  quivers  and  bow-strings  of  the 
Egyptians,  compelled  them  to  flee  in  the  morning,  He- 
rodotus may  have  misinterpreted  the  symbolical  lan- 
guage of  the  Egyptians,  in  which  the  mouse  denotes  an- 
nihilation (n^ciftcr/mC)  Horapoll.  i,  50) ; though,  as  Kno- 
bel  («.  s.  p.  280)  has  shown  by  apposite  instances,  an 
army  of  mice  is  capable  of  committing  such  ravages,  and 
also  of  leaving  pestilence  behind  it.  That  the  destruc- 
tion was  effected  in  the  course  of  one  night  is  clearly- 
expressed  in  2 Kings  xix,  35,  where  “ that  night”  is 
plainly  that  which  followed  after  the  delivery  of  isaiah's 
prophecy",  and  is  evidently  implied  alike  in  Isa.  xxxvi, 
36  (“when  men  arose  early  in  the  morning”),  and  in 
the  story  of  Herodotus. 

After  this  reverse  Sennacherib  fled  precipitately  to 
Nineveh,  where  he  revenged  himself  on  as  many"  Jews 
as  were  in  his  power  (Tob.  i,  18),  and,  after  many-  years 
(not  fifty-five  days,  as  Tobit  says,  i,  21),  was  murdered 
by"  two  of  his  sons  as  he  drank  himself  drunk  in  the 
house  of  Nisroch  (Assarac  ?)  his  god.  lie  certainly  lived 
till  B.C.  695,  for  his  22d  year  is  mentioned  on  a clay 
tablet  (Iiawlinson,  l.  c.) ; he  must  therefore  have  sur- 
vived Hezekiah  by"  at  least  one  yrear.  It  is  probable 
that  several  of  the  Psalms  (e.g.  xlvi-xlviii,  lxxvi) 
allude  to  his  discomfiture. 

“ In  those  day's  was  Hezekiah  sick  unto  death.”  So 
begins,  in  all  the  accounts,  and  immediately"  after  the 
discomfiture  of  Sennacherib,  the  narrative  of  Hezekiah’s 
sickness  and  miracidous  recovery  (2  Kings  xx,  1 ; 2 
Cliron.  xxxii,24;  Isa.  xxxviii,  1).  The  time  is  defined, 
by"  the  promise  of  fifteen  y'ears  to  be  added  to  the  life  of 
Hezekiah,  to  the  fourteenth  year  complete,  or  fifteenth 
current,  of  his  reign  of  twentyT-nine  yrears.  But  it  is 
stated  to  have  been  in  the  fourteenth  y ear  of  Hezekiah 
that  Sennacherib  took  the  fenced  cities  of  Judah,  and 
thereafter  threatened  Jerusalem  and  came  to  his  over- 
throw. The  two  notes  of  time,  the  express  and  the  im- 
plied, fully  accord,  and  place  beyond  question,  at  least,  the 
view  of  the  writer  or  last  redactor  in  2 Kings  xviii,  xix ; 
Isa.  xxxvi,  xxxvii,  that  the  Assyrian  invasion  began 
before  Hezekiah’s  illness,  and  lies  in  the  middle  of  his 
reign.  I11  the  received  chronology,  as  the  first  year  of 
Hezekiah  precedes  the  fourth  of  Jehoiakim  = first  of 
Nebuchadnezzar  (i.  e.  B.C.  604  in  the  Canon,  B.C.  606 
in  the  Hebrew  reckoning)  by"  29,  55, 2, 31,  3 = 120  y'ears, 
the  epoch  of  the  reign  is  B.C.  724  or  726,  and  its  14th 
year  B.C.  711  or  713.  But  it  is  contended  that  so  early 
a yrear  is  irreconcilable  with  definite  and  unquestionable 
data  of.  contemporary"  history",  Egyptian,  Assy"rian,  and 
Babylonian.  From  these  it  lias  been  inferred  that  dur- 
ing the  siege  of  Samaria  Shalmaneser  died,  and  was  suc- 
ceeded by  Sargon,  who,  jealous  of  Egyptian  influence  in 
Jud£ea,sent  an  army"  under  a Tartan  or  general  (Isa.  xx, 
1),  which  penetrated  Egypt  (Nah.  iii,  8-10)  and  destroy- 
ed No-Amon ; although  it  is  clear  from  Hezekiah’s  re- 
bellion (2  Kings  xviii,  7)  that  it  can  have  produced  but 
little  permanent  impression.  Sargon,  in  the  tenth  yrear 
of  his  reign  (which  is  regarded  as  parallel  with  the  four- 
teenth yrear  of  the  reign  of  Hezekiah),  made  an  expedi- 
tion to  Palestine ; but  liis  annals  make  no  mention  of 
any  conquests  from  Hezekiah  on  this  occasion,  and  he 
seems  to  have  occupied  himself  in  the  siege  of  Ashdod 
(Isa.  xx,  1),  and  in  the  inspection  of  mines  (Rosenmiil- 
ler,  Bill.  Geogr.  ix).  This  is  therefore  thought  to  be 
the  expedition  referred  to  in  2 Kings  xviii,  13;  Isa. 
xxxvi,  1 ; an  expedition  which  is  merely  alluded  to,  as 
it  led  to  no  result.  But  if  the  Scripture  narrative  is  to 
be  reconciled  with  the  records  of  Assyrian  history,  it 
has  been  thought  necessary"  to  make  a transposition  in 
the  text  of  Isaiah  (and  therefore  of  the  book  of  Kings). 
That  some  such  expedient  must  be  resorted  to,  if  the 
Assyrian  history  is  trustworthy,  is  maintained  by"  Dr, 
Hincks  in  a paper  On  the  rectification  of  Chronology , 


IIEZEKIAH 


229 


IIEZEKIAH 


which  the  newly-discovered  Apis-steles  render  necessary 
(in  Jour,  of  Sac.  Lit.  Oct.  1858).  “The  text,”  he  says, 
“as  it  originally  stood,  was  probably  to  this  effect  (2 
Kings  xviii,  13) : Now  in  the  fourteenth  year  of  king 
Hezekiah  the  king  of  Assyria  came  np  [alluding  to  the 
attack  mentioned  in  Sargon’s  “Annals”],  xx,  1-19.  In 
those  days  was  king  Hezekiah  sick  unto  death,  etc., 
xviii,  13.  And  Sennacherib,  king  of  Assyria,  came  up 
against  all  the  fenced  cities  of  Judah,  and  took  them, 
etc.,  xviii,  13 ; xix,  37.”  It  has  been  conjectured  that 
some  later  transcriber,  unaware  of  the  earlier  and  unim- 
portant invasion,  confused  the  allusion  to  Sargon  in  2 
Kings  xviii,  13  with  the  detailed  story  of  Sennacherib’s 
attack  (2  Kings  xviii,  14  to  xix,  37),  and,  considering 
that  the  account  of  Hezekiah’s  illness  broke  the  continu- 
ity of  the  narrative,  removed  it  to  the  end.  • According 
to  this  scheme,  Ilezekiah’s  dangerous  illness  (2  Kings 
xx ; Isa.  xxxviii ; 2 Chrou.  xxxii,  24)  nearly  synchro- 
nized with  Sargon’s  futile  invasion,  in  the  fourteenth 
year  of  llezekiah’s  reign,  eleven  years  before  Sennache- 
rib's invasion.  That  it  must  have  preceded  the  attack 
of  Sennacherib  has  also  been  inferred  from  the  promise 
in  2 Kings  xx,  6,  as  well  as  from  modern  discoveries 
(Layard,  A7 n.  and  Bab.  i,  145) ; and  such  is  the  view 
adopted  by  the  Uabbis  (Seder  Olam,  cap.  xxiii),  Usher, 
and  by  most  commentators,  except  Vitringa  and  Gese- 
nius  (Keil,  ad  loc. ; Prideaux,  i,  22).  It  should  be  ob- 
served, however,  that  the  difficulties  experienced  in  .rec- 
onciling the  scriptural  date  with  that  of  the  Assyrian 
monuments  rests  on  the  synchronism  of  the  fall  of  Sa- 
maria with  the  1st  or  2d  year  of  Sargon  (q.  v.).  Col. 
Ilawlinson  has  lately  given  reasons  himself  ( Lond . Athe- 
nieum , No.  1869,  Aug.  22,  18G3,  p.  246)  for  doubting  this 
date ; and  it  is  probable  that  further  researches  and  com- 
putations may  fully  vindicate  the  accuracy  of  the  Bib- 
lical numbers. 

Tirhakah  is  mentioned  (2  Kings  xix,  9)  as  an  oppo- 
nent of  Sennacherib  shortly  before  the  miraculous  de- 
struction of  his  army  in  the  fourteenth  year  of  Heze- 
kiah, corresponding  to  B.C.  713.  It  has  lately  been 
proved  from  the  Apis  tablets  that  the  first  year  of  Tir- 
hakah’s  reign  over  Egypt  was  the  vague  year  current 
in  B.C.  689  (Dr.  Hincks,  in  the  Jour.  Sac.  Lit.  October, 
1858,  p.  130).  There  is,  therefore,  a prima,  facie  dis- 
crepancy of  several  years.  Bunsen  ( Bibelwerk , i,  p. 
cccvi)  unhesitatingly  reduces  the  reign  of  Manasseh 
from  fifty-five  to  forty-five  years.  Lepsius  ( Konigsbuch , 
p.  104)  more  critically  takes  the  thirty-five  years  of  the 
Sept,  as  the  true  duration.  Were  an  alteration  demand- 
ed, it  would  seem  best  to  make  Manasseh’s  computation 
of  his  reign  commence  with  his  father’s  illness  in  pref- 
erence to  taking  the  conjectural  number  forty-five,  or 
the  very  short  one  thirty-five.  The  evidence  of  the 
chronology  of  the  Assyrian  and  Babylonian  kings  is, 
however,  we  think,  conclusive  in  favor  of  the  sum  of 
fifty-five.  In  the  Bible  we  are  told  that  Shalmaneser 
laid  siege  to  Samaria  in  the  fourth  year  of  Hezekiah, 
and  that  it  was  taken  in  the  sixth  year  of  that  king  (2 
Kings  xviii,  9,  10).  The  Assyrian  inscriptions  indicate 
the  taking  of  the  city  by  Sargon  in  his  first  or  second 
year,  whence  we  must  suppose  either  that  he  completed 
the  enterprise  of  Shalmaneser,  to  whom  the  capture  is 
not  expressly  ascribed  in  the  Scriptures,  or  that  he  took 
the  credit  of  an  event  which  happened  just  before  his 
accession.  The  first  year  of  Sargon  is  shown  by  the  in- 
scriptions to  have  been  exactly  or  nearly  equal  to  the 
first  of  Merodach-Baladan,  i.  e.  Mardocempadus : there- 
fore it  was  current  B.C.  721  or  720,  and  the  second  year, 
720  or  719.  This  would  place  Hezekiah’s  accession  B.C. 
72G,  725,  or  724,  the  first  of  them  being  the  very  date 
the  Hebrew  numbers  give.  Again,  Merodach-Baladan 
sent  messengers  to  Hezekiah  immediately  after  his  sick- 
ness, and  therefore  in  about  his  fifteenth  year,  B.C.  712. 
According  to  Ptolemy’s  Canon,  Mardocempadus  reigned 
721-710,  and,  according  to  Berosns,  seized  the  regal 
power  for  six  months  before  Elibus,  the  Belibus  of  the 
Canon,  and  therefore  in  about  703,  this  being,  no  doubt, 


I a second  reign.  See  Meropacii-Baladan.  Here  the 
j preponderance  of  evidence  is  in  favor  of  the  earlier  dates 
of  Hezekiah.  Thus  far  the  chronological  data  of  Egypt 
and  Assyria  appear  to  clash  in  a manner  that  seems  at 
I first  sight  to  present  a hopeless  knot,  but  not  on  this  ac- 
count to  be  rashly  cut.  An  examination  of  the  facts  of 
I the  history  has  afforded  Dr.  Hincks  (Jour,  of  Sac.  Lit- 
erature, Oct.  1858)  what  he  believes  to  be  the  true  ex- 
planation. Tirhakah,  he  observes,  is  not  explicitly 
termed  Pharaoh  or  king  of  Egypt  in  the  Bible,  but 
i king  of  Cush  or  Ethiopia,  from  which  it  might  be  in- 
; ferred  that  at  the  time  of  Sennacherib’s  disastrous  inva- 
! sion  he  had  not  assumed  the  crown  of  Egypt.  The 
' Assyrian  inscriptions  of  Sennacherib  mention  kings  of 
Egypt,  and  a contemporary  king  of  Ethiopia  in  alliance 
with  them.  The  history  of  Egypt  at  the  time,  obtain- 
ed by  a comparison  of  the  evidence  of  Herodotus  and 
others  with  that  of  Manetho’s  lists,  would  lead  to  the 
same  or  a similar  conclusion,  which  appears  to  be  re- 
markably confirmed  by  the  prophecies  of  Isaiah.  He 
| holds,  therefore,  as  most  probable,  that,  at  the  time  of 
I Sennacherib’s  disastrous  expedition,  Tirhakah  was  king 
I of  Ethiopia  in  alliance  with  the  king  or  kings  of  Egypt, 
i In  fact,  in  order  to  reconcile  the  discrepancy  between 
j the  date  of  the  fourteenth  year  of  Hezekiah  in  B.C.  713, 
and  its  contemporaneousness  with  the  reign  of  Tirha- 
j kah,  who  did  not  ascend  the  Egyptian  throne  till  B.C. 
689,  we  have  only  to  suppose  that  the  latter  king  was 
the  ruler  of  Ethiopia  some  years  before  his  accession 
over  Egypt  itself.  See  Tirhakah. 

In  this,  way,  however,  we  again  fall  into  the  other 
! difficulty  as  to  the  coincidence  of  this  date  with  that  of 
Sennacherib’s  invasion.  It  is  true,  as  above  seen,  that 
i the  warlike  operations  of  Sennacherib  recorded  in  the 
Bible  have  been  conjectured  (Ilawlinson,  Herodotus,  i, 
383)  to  be  those  of  two  expeditions.  See  Sennacherib. 
' The  fine  paid  by  Hezekiah  is  recorded  in  the  inscrip- 
tions as  a result  of  an  expedition  of  Sennacherib’s  third 
j year,  which,  by  a comparison  of  Ptolemy’s  Canon  with 
! Berosus,  must  be  dated  B.C.  700,  and  this  would  fall  so 
j near  the  close  of  the  reign  of  the  king  of  Judah  (B.C. 
I 697)  that  the  supposed  second  expedition,  of  which 
| there  would  naturally  be  no  record  in  the  Assyrian  an- 
nals on  account  of  its  calamitous  end,  could  not  be  placed 
| much  later.  The  Biblical  account  would,  however,  be 
| most  reasonably  explained  by  the  supposition  that  the 
two  expeditions  were  but  two  campaigns  of  the  same 
war,  a war  but  temporarily  interrupted  by  Hezekiah’s 
submission.  Now  as  even  the  former  (if  there  were 
two)  of  these  expeditions  of  Sennacherib  fell  in  B.C. 
700,  it  would  be  thirteen  years  later  than  the  synchro- 
nism of  Tirhakah  and  Hezekiah  as  above  arrived  at. 
it  is  probable,  therefore,  that  there  is  some  miscalcula- 
tion in  these  dates  from  the  Egyptian  and  Assyrian 
monuments,  as  indeed  seems  to  be  betrayed  by  the  dis- 
crepancy between  Sennacherib’s  invasion  (B.C.  700)  and 
Tirhakah’s  reign  (not  earlier  than  B.C.  G89),  as  thereby 
determined,  whereas  the  above  Biblical  passage  makes 
them  contemporaneous.  Dr.  Hincks  (tit  sup.),  however, 
proposes  to  solve  this  difficulty  also  by  the  uncritical 
supposition  that  the  name  of  Sennacherib  has  been  in- 
serted in  the  Biblical  account  of  the  first  Assyrian  inva- 
sion of  Judah  (2  Kings  xviii,  13 ; Isa.  xxvi,  1 ; 2 Chron. 
xxxii)  by  some  copyist,  who  confounded  this  with  the 
later  invasion  by  that  monarch,  whereas  tlio  Assyrian 
king  referred  to  was  Sargon  (Isa.  xx,  1),  his  predecessor. 
A less  violent  hypothesis  for  the  same  purpose  of  recon- 
cilement, and  one  in  accordance  with  the  custom  of 
these  Oriental  kings,  e.  g.  in  the  case  of  Nebuchadnez- 
zar, is  that  Sargon  sent  Sennacherib  as  viceroy  to  exe- 
cute this  campaign  in  Palestine,  and  that  the  annals  of 
the  reign  of  the  latter  refer  to  different  and  later  expe- 
ditions when  actually  king.  See  Chronology. 

Some  writers  have  thought  to  find  a note  of  time  in 
I 2 Kings  xix,  29;  Isa.  xxxvii,30,“Ye  shall  eat  this  year 
■ such  as  groweth  of  itself,”  etc.,  assuming  that  the  pas- 
I sage  is  only  to  be  explained  as  implying  the  interven- 


IIEZEKIAH 


230 


HEZEKIAH 


tion  of  a sabbath-year,  or  even  of  a sabbath-year  fol- 
lowed by  a year  of  jubilee.  All  that  can  be  said  is  that 
the  passage  may  be  interpreted  in  that  sense ; and  it 
does  happen  that  according  to  that  view  of  the  order  of 
sabbatic  and  jubikean  years  which  is  the  best  attested,  a 
sabbath-year  would  begin  in  the  autumn  ol  B.C.  713 
(Browne,  Ordo  Sveclorum , sec.  272-280),  i.  e.  on  the  per- 
haps precarious  assumption  that  the  cycle  persisted  with- 
out interruption.  At  most,  however,  this  no  more  fixes 
the  fourteenth  of  Ilezekiah  to  the  year  B.C.  713,  than  it 
does  to  706,  or  699,  or  any  other  year  of  the  series.  But, 
in  fact,  it  is  not  necessary  to  assume  any  reference  to  a 
sabbath-vear.  Suppose  the  words  to  have  been  spoken 
in  the  autumn,  then,  the  produce  of  the  previous  harvest 
(April,  May)  having  been  destroyed  or  carried  off  by 
the  invaders,  there  remained  only  that  which  sprang 
naturally  from  the  dropped  or  trodden-out  seed  (HP 35), 
and  as  the  enemy’s  presence  in  the  land  hindered  the  au- 
tuninal  tillage,  there  could  be  no  regular  harvest  in  the 
following  spring  (only  the  '.3“Hi3,  avTopard).  Hence 
there  is  no  need  to  infer  with  Thenius,  ad  loe.  that  the 
enemy  must  have  been  in  the  land  at  least  eighteen 
months,  or,  with  Ewald,that  Isaiah,  speaking  in  the  au- 
tumn, anticipated  that  the  invasion  would  last  through 
the  following  year  {Die  Propheten  des  A.  IS.  i,  301,  and 
similarly  Knobel,  u.  s.  p.  278). 

There  seems  to  be  uo  ground  whatever  for  the  vague 
conjecture  so  confidently  advanced  (Jalin,  Ilebr.  Common. 
§ xli),that  the  king’s  illness  was  the  same  plague  which 
had  destroyed  the  Assyrian  army.  The  word  *pn’j  is 
not  elsewhere  applied  to  the  plague,  but  to  carbuncles 
and  inflammatory  ideers  (Exod.  ix,  9;  Job  ii,  1,  etc.). 
Ilezekiah, whose  kingdom  was  still  in  a dangerous  state 
from  the  fear  lest  the  Assyrians  might  return,  who  had 
at  that  time  no  heir  (for  Manasseh  was  not  bom  till 
long  afterwards,  2 Kings  xxi,  l),and  who  regarded  death 
as  the  end  of  existence  (Isa.  xxxviii),  “turned  his  face 
to  the  wall  and  wept  sore”  at  the  threatened  approach 
of  dissolution.  God  had  compassion  on  his  anguish,  and 
heard  his  prayer.  Isaiah  had  hardly  left  the  palace 
when  he  was  ordered  to  promise  the  king  immediate  re- 
covery, and  a fresh  lease  of  life,  ratifying  the  promise  by 
a sign,  and  curing  the  boil  by  a plaster  of  rigs,  which 
were  often  used  medicinally  in  similar  eases  (Gescnius, 
Thes.  i,  311 ; Celsius,  Ilierobot.  ii,  377;  Bartholinus,  Be 
Morins  Biblicis,  x,  47).  What  was  the  exact  nature  of 
the  disease  we  cannot  say ; according  to  Meade,  it  was 
fever  terminating  in  abscess.  On  this  remarkable  pas- 
sage we  must  here  be  content  to  refer  the  reader  to  Carp- 
zov,  A pp.  Crit.  p.  351  sq. ; Rawlinson,  Herod,  ii,  332  sq. ; 
the  elaborate  notes  of  Keil  on  2 Kings  xx ; Rosenm  uller 
and  Gescnius  on  Isa.  xxxviii,  and  especially  Ewald,  Ge- 
schiehte  iii,  638. 

The  sign  given  to  Ilezekiah  in  the  going  back  of  the 
shadow  on  the  “sun-dial  of  Ahaz”  can  only  be  inter- 
preted as  a miracle.  The  explanation  proposed  by  J. 
von  Gumpach  (/I  It.  Test.  Stadien,  p.  181  sq.)  is  as  incom- 
patible with  the  terms  of  the  narrative  (Isa.  xxxviii,  8, 
especially  the  fuller  one,  2 Kings  xx,  8-11)  as  it  is  in- 
sulting to  the  character  of  the  prophet,  who  is  repre- 
sented to  have  managed  the  seeming  return  of  the  shad- 
ow by  the  trick  of  secretly  turning  the  movable  dial 
from  its  proper  position  to  its  opposite ! Thenius  (u.  s. 
p.  403  sq.)  would  naturalize  the  miracle  so  as  to  obtain 
from  it  a note  of  time.  The  phenomenon  was  due,  he 
thinks,  to  a solar  eclipse,  very  small,  viz.  the  one  of  26th 
September,  B.C.  713.  Here,  also,  the  prophet  is  taxed 
with  a deception,  to  be  justified  by  his  wish  to  inspire 
the  despairing  king  with  the  confidence  essential  to  his 
recovery.  The  prophet  employed  for  this  purpose  his 
astronomical  knowledge  of  the  fact  that  the  eclipse  was 
about  to  take  place,  and  of  the  further  fact  that  “ at  the 
beginning  of  an  eclipse  the  shadow  (e.  g.  of  a gnomon) 
goes  back,  and  at  its  ending  goes  forward:”  an  effect, 
however,  so  minute  that  the  difference  amounts  at  most 
to  sixty  seconds  of  time ; but  then  the  “ degrees”  would 


mark  extremely  small  portions  of  time,  possibly  even 
1080  to  the  hour  (like  the  later  Hebrew  Chlakim ),  and 
the  so-called  “ dial”  was  enormously  large ! Not  more 
successfully,  Mr.  Bosanquet  ( Trans.  ofR.  A siat.  SSoc.  xv, 
277)  has  recourse  to  the  same  expedient  of  an  eclipse  on 
Jan.  11,  689  B.C.,  which,  in  this  writer’s  scheme,  lies  in 
the  fourteenth  of  Hezekiali.  “ Whoever  truly  believes 
in  the  Old  Testament,  as  Mr.  Bosanquet  evidently  does, 
must  also  be  prepared  to  believe  in  a miracle,”  is  the 
just  comment  made  by  M.  v.  Niebuhr,  Gesch.Assurs  und 
Isabels,  p. 49.  Mr. Greswcll’s  elaborate  attempt  to  prove 
from  ancient  astronomical  records  that  the  day  of  this 
miracle  was  preternaturally  lengthened  out  to  thirty-six 
hours  will  scarcely  convince  any  one  but  himself  ( Fasti 
Temporis  Catholici,  etc.,  and  Browne’s  “Remarks”  on  the 
same,  1852,.  p.  23  sq.).  See  Dial. 

Various  ambassadors  came  with  letters  and  gifts  to 
congratulate  Ilezekiah  on  his  recovery  (2  C’hron.  xxxii, 
23),  and  among  them  an  embassy  from  Merodach-Ea- 
ladan  (or  Berodach,  2 Kings  xx,  12;  o BJXococ,  Jose- 
phus, l.  c.),  the  viceroy  of  Babylon,  the  Mardokempados 
of  Ptolemy’s  canon.  The  ostensible  object  of  this  mis- 
sion was  to  compliment  Ilezekiah  on  his  convalescence 
(2  Kings  xx,  12;  Isa.  xxxix,  1),  and  “to  inquire  of  the 
wonder  that  was  done  in  the  land”  (2  Cliron.  xxxii,  31), 
a rumor  of  which  could  not  fail  to  interest  a people  de- 
voted to  astrology.  But  its  real  purpose  was  to  discov- 
er how  far  an  alliance  between  the  two  powers  was  pos- 
sible or  desirable,  for  Mardokempados,  no  less  than  Ilez- 
ckiah,  was  in  apprehension  of  the  Assyrians.  In  fact, 
Sargon  expelled  him  from  the  throne  of  Babylon  in  the 
following  year  (the  16th  of  Ilezekiah),  although  after  a 
time  he  seems  to  have  returned  and  re-established  him- 
self for  six  months,  at  the  end  of  which  he  was  murder- 
ed by  Belibos  (Dr.  Hmcks,  l.  e. ; Rosenm  filler,  Bib!.  Ge- 
orjraph.  eh.  viii;  Layard,  Kin.  and  Bab.  i,  141).  Com- 
munity of  interest  made  Ilezekiah  receive  the  overtures 
of  Babylon  with  unconcealed  gratification ; and,  perhaps, 
to  enhance  the  opinion  of  his  own  importance  as  an  ally, 
he  displayed  to  the  messengers  the  princely  treasures 
which  he  and  his  predecessors  had  accumulated.  These 
stores  remained  even  after  the  largesses  mentioned  in  2 
Kings  xviii,  14, 16.  If  ostentation  were  his  motive  it 
received  a terrible  rebuke,  and  lie  was  informed  by  Isa- 
iah that  from  the  then  tottering  and  subordinate  prov- 
ince of  Babylon,  and  not  from  the  mighty  Assyria,  would 
come  the  ruin  and  captivity  of  Judah  (Isa.  xxxix,  5). 
This  prophecy  and  the  one  of  Micah  (Mie.  iv,  10)  are 
the  earliest  definition  of  the  locality  of  that  hostile  pow- 
er, where  the  clouds  of  exile  so  long  threatened  (Lev. 
xxvi,  33 ; Deut.  iv,  27 ; xxx,  3)  were  beginning  to  gath- 
er. It  is  an  impressive  and  fearful  circumstance  that 
the  moment  of  exultation  was  chosen  as  the  opportuni- 
ty for  warning,  and  that  the  prophecies  of  the  Assyrian 
deliverance  are  set  side  by  side  with  those  of  the  Baby- 
lonian captivity  (Davidson,  On  Prophecy,  p.  256).  The 
weak  friend  was  to  accomplish  that  which  was  impossi- 
ble to  the  powerful  foe.  But,  although  pride  was  the 
sin  thus  vehemently  checked  by  the  prophet,  Isaiah  was 
certainly  not  blind  to  th e political  motives  (Joseph.  Ant. 
x,  2,  2)  which  made  Ilezekiah  so  complaisant  to  the 
Babylonian  ambassadors.  Into  those  motives  he  had 
inquired  in  vain,  for  the  king  met  that  portion  of  his 
question  (“What  said  these  men?”)  by  emphatic  si- 
lence. Ilezckiah’s  meek  answer  to  the  stern  denuncia- 
tion of  future  woe  has  been  most  unjustly  censured  as 
“a  false  resignation  which  combines  selfishness  with 
silliness”  (Newman,  Ilebr.  Mon.  p.  274).  On  the  contra- 
ry, it  merely  implies  a conviction  that  God’s  decree  could 
not  be  otherwise  than  just  and  right,  and  a natural 
thankfulness  for  even  a temporary  suspension  of  its  in- 
evitable fulfilment. 

After  this  embassy  we  have  only  a general  aecount  of 
the  peace  and  prosperity  in  which  Hezekiali  closed  his 
days.  No  man  before  or  sinee  ever  lived  under  the  cer- 
tain knowledge  of  the  precise  length  of  the  span  of  life 
before  him,  “He  was  buried  in  the  going  up  (nbi*E) 


IIEZEL 


231 


IIEZROX 


to  the  sepulchres  of  the  sons  of  David,”  2 Chron.  xxxii, 
33 : from  this,  and  the  fact  that  the  succeeding  kings 
were  laid  in  sepulchres  of  their  own,  it  may  be  inferred 
that  after  Ahaz,  thirteenth  from  David,  there  was  no 
more  room  left  in  the  ancestral  sepulchre  (Thenius,  u.  s. 
p.  410).  In  later  times,  he  was  held  in  honor  as  the 
king  who  had  “after  him  none  like  him  among  all  the 
kings  of  Judah,  nor  any  that  were  before  him”  (2  Kings 
xviii,  5) ; in  Jer.  xxvi,  17  the  elders  of  the  land  cite  him 
as  an  example  of  pious  submission  to  the  word  of  the 
Lord  spoken  by  Mieah;  and  the  son  of  Siracli  closes  his 
recital  of  the  kings  with  this  judgment — that  of  all  the 
kings  of  Judah,  “David,  Ilezekiah,  and  Josiah  alone 
transgressed  not,  nor  forsook  the  law  of  the  Most  High” 
(Ecelus.  xlix,4). 

Besides  the  many  authors  and  eommentators  who 
have  written  on  this  period  of  Jewish  history  (on  which 
much  light  has  been  recently  thrown  by  Mr.  Layard, 
Sir  G.  Wilkinson,  Sir  II.  Rawlinson,  Dr.  Hincks,  and 
other  scholars  who  have  studied  the  Nineveh  remains), 
see  for  continuous  lives  of  Ilezekiah,  Josephus  (Ant.  ix, 
13-x,  2),  Frideaux  (Connect,  i,  16-30),  Jahn  (Iklr.  Com. 

§ xli),  Ewald  (Gesch.  iii,  614-G44,  2d  ed.),  Stanley  (Jew- 
ish Church, n, 305-540),  Nicholson  ( Lectures  on  Ilezekiah , 
Loud.  1839),  Roehah  (Meditations  on  Ilez.  tr.  by  Hare, 
Lond.  1839),  Michaelis  (De  Ezechia , Hal.  1717),  Seheid 
(Canticum  Ezechia % Levd.  1769),  Nicolai  (De  terroribus 
Hiskiir,  Helmst.  1749),  Taddel  (Precatio  ChiskUe,  Wit- 
ten b.  1704).  For  sermons,  etc.,  see  Darling,  Cyehpccdia 
Biblioyraphica,  col.  330,  340,  341. — Kitto;  Smith. 

Hezekiau’s  Pool,  the  modern  traditionary  name  of 
a cistern  or  reservoir  in  the  western  part  of  the  city  of 
Jerusalem,  referred  by  Robinson  (Later  Researches , p. 
112)  and  Bartlett  (IFaZfrs  about  Jerusalem , p.  82)  to  the 
military  preparations  of  that  king  (2  Chron.  xxxii,  3 
sq. ; compare  2 Kings  xx,  20;  Ecclus.  xlviii,  17  sq. ; Isa. 
xxii,  9-11 ; Fsa.  xlviii,  12,  13),  but  disputed  by  Ritter 
( Erdk . xvii,  371  sq.).  See  Jerusalem. 

2.  The  great-great-grandfather  of  the  prophet  Zeph- 
aniah  (Zeph.  i,  1,  where  the  name  is  Anglicized  “lliz- 
kiah”),  supposed  by  some  to  be  the  same  with  the  fore- 
going (see  lluetius,  Demostr.  Evany.  Lips.  p.  512 ; contra 
Rosenmuller,  Proleg.  ad  Zeph.).  B.C.  much  ante  635. 

3.  A person  mentioned  in  connection  with  Ater  (but 
whether  as  father  or  otherwise  is  not  clear),  which  latter 
was  the  father  (or  former  residence)  of  ninety-eight  Is- 
raelites who  returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel 
(Neh.  vii,  21).  In  Neh.  x,  17  his  name  (Anglicized 
“Hizkijah”)  appears  in  a similar  connection  (but  with- 
out the  connective  “of”)  among  those  who  subscribed 
the  covenant  of  Nehemiah.  B.C.  ante  536. 

4.  The  second  of  the  three  sons  of  Neariah,  a descend- 
ant of  Salathiel  (1  Chron.  iii,  23) ; probably  a brother 
of  the  Esli  of  Luke  iii,  25,  and  also  of  the  Azor  of  Matt, 
i,  13.  (See  Strong’s  Harm,  and  Expos,  of  the  Gosp.  p. 
16.)  B.C.  post  536. 

Hezel.  See  Hetzel. 

Hezer.  See  Hetzer. 

He'zion  (Heb.  Chezyon',  ‘I’Ttn,  vision;  Sept.  ’A£i- 
<i>v),  the  father  of  Tabrimon  and  grandfather  of  the 
Ben-hadad  I,  king  of  Damascene-Syria,  to  whom  Asa 
sent  a largess  to  conciliate  his  aid  against  Baasha  (1 
Kings  xv,  18).  B.C.  ante  928.  A question  has  long 
been  raised  whether  this  name  (which  only  occurs  in  the 
above  passage)  indicates  the  same  person  as  the  Rezox 
of  1 Kings  xi,  23.  Thenius,  after  Ewald,  suggests  that 
the  successful  adventurer  who  became  king  of  Damas- 
cus, and  was  so  hostile  a neighbor  to  Solomon  through- 
out his  reign,  was  really  called  Ilezion,  and  that  the  des- 
ignation Rezon  (■j‘lT'8,  “prince”)  was  either  assumed  by 
him,  or  bestowed  on  him  by  his  followers  after  he  was 
seated  on  his  new  throne.  There  is,  of  course,  no  chro- 
nological difficulty  in  this  supposition.  Less  than  forty 
years  intervened  between  the  death  of  Solomon,  when 
Rezon  was  reigning  at  Damascus  (1  Kings  xi,  25),  and  I 


the  treaty  between  Asa  and  Ben-hadad  I (1  Kings  xv, 
18,  19),  during  which  interval  there  is  no  violence  to 
probability  in  assuming  the  occurrence  of  the  death  of 
Rezon  or  Ilezion,  the  accession  and  entire  reign  of  Tab- 
rimon his  son,  who  was  unquestionably  king  of  Syria 
and  contemporary  with  Asa’s  father  (1  Kings  xv,  19), 
and  the  succession  of  Tabrimon’s  son,  Ben-hadad  I. 
This  identity  of  Ilezion  with  Rezon  is  an  idea  appar- 
ently as  old  as  the  Sept,  translators;  for  they  associated 
in  their  version  with  Solomon’s  adversary  the  Edomite 
Hadad  [or,  as  they  called  him,  A der,  rvv  "AfopJ,  “ Es- 
rom , the  son  of  Eliadah”  (see  the  Sept,  of  1 Kings  xi, 
14) ; a name  which  closely  resembles  our  Ilezion , though 
it  refers  to  Rezon,  as  the  patronymic  proves  (1  Kings  xi, 
23).  The  later  versions,  Peshito  (Iledron)  and  Arabic 
(Iledron),  seem  to  approximate  also  more  nearly  to  Ile- 
zion than  to  Rezon.  Of  the  old  commentators,  Junius, 
Piscator,  Malvenda,  and  Menochius  have  been  cited  (see 
Poli  Synops.  ad  loc.)  as  maintaining  the  identity.  Koh- 
ler also,  and  Marsham  (Can.  Chron.  p.  346),  and  Dathe 
have  been  referred  to  by  Keil  as  in  favor  of  the  same 
view.  Keil  himself  is  uncertain.  According  to  another 
opinion,  Ilezion  was  not  identical  with  Rezon,  but  his 
successor;  this  is  propounded  by  Winer  (B.  It.  1 V.  i,  245, 
and  ii,  322).  If  the  account  be  correct  which  is  com- 
municated by  Josephus  (.4  nt.  vii,  5,  2)  from  the  fourth 
book  of  Nicolaus  Damascenus,  to  the  effect  that  the 
name  of  the  king  of  Damascus  who  was  contemporary 
with  David  was  Hadad  ("A  car  or),  we  have  in  it  proba- 
bly the  dynastic  name  which  Rezon  or  Hezion  adopted 
for  himself  and  his  heirs,  who,  according  to  the  same 
statement,  occupied  the  throne  of  Syria  for  ten  genera- 
tions. According  to  Macrobius  ( Saturnalia , i,  23), 
A dad  was  the  name  of  the  supreme  god  of  the  Syrians; 
and  as  it  was  a constant  practice  with  the  kings  of 
Syria  and  Babylon  to  assume  names  which  connected 
them  with  their  gods  (comp.  Tabrimon  of  1 Kings  xv, 
18,  the  son  of  our  Hezion,  whose  name=1“’2')4---^5 
“ good  is  Rimmon,”  another  Syrian  deity,  probably  the 
same  with  Adad ; see  2 Kings  v,  18,  and  Zecli.  xii,  11), 
we  may  not  unreasonably  conjecture  that  Hezion,  who 
in  his  political  relation  called  himself  Rezon,  or  “prince,” 
adopted  the  name  Hadad  [or,  rather,  Ben-hadad , “ Son 
of  the  supreme  God”J  in  relation  to  the  religion  of  his 
country  and  to  his  own  ecclesiastical  supremacy.  It  is 
remarkable  that  even  after  the  change  of  dynasty  in 
Hazael  this  title  of  Ben-hadad  seemed  to  survive  (see  2 
Kings  xiii,  3).  If  this  conjecture  be  true,  the  energetic 
marauder  who  passes  under  the  names  of  Rezon  and  He- 
zion in  the  passages  which  we  quoted  at  the  commence- 
ment of  this  article  was  strong  enough  not  only  to  har- 
ass the  great  Solomon,  but  to  found  a dynasty  of  kings 
which  occupied  the  throne  of  Syria  to  the  tenth  descent, 
even  down  to  the  revolution  effected  by  Hazael,  “near 
two  hundred  years,  according  to  the  exactest  chronolo- 
gy of  Josephus”  (Whist on’s  note  on  Ant.  vii,  5,  2). — 
Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Rezox. 

He'zir  (Heb.  Chezir ',  ‘"‘H,  a swine , or,  according 
to  Fiirst,  strong ; Sept.  ’leZ tip  and  ’H£f«p  v.  r.  Xr/Ziv), 
the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  The  head  of  the  seventeenth  course  of  priests  as 
established  by  David  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  15).  B.C.  1014. 

2.  A chief  Israelite  who  subscribed  the  sacred  cove- 
nant with  Nehemiah  (Neh.  x,  20).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

Hez'rai  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  35).  See  Hezro. 

Hez'ro  (Heb.  Chetsro',  i.  q.  Ilezron;  Sept. 

'Atrnpai,  Vulg.  Ilezro),  a Carmelite,  one  of  David’s  dis- 
tinguished warriors  (1  Chron.  xi.  37).  He  is  called  in 
the  margin  and  in  2 Sam.  xxiii,  35,  Hezrai  (Chets ray', 
■n2n,Sept.’Affupj,Vulg.  llesrnt).  B.C.  1046.  Kenni- 
cott,  however  (Dissertation,  p.  207),  decides,  on  the  al- 
most unanimous  authority  of  the  ancient  version,  that 
Hezrai  is  the  original  form  of  the  name. 

I Hez'ron  (Heb.  Chetsron',  fPS”,  enclosed  [Gesen.] 


IIEZRONITE 


232 


HIDDEKEL 


or  blooming  [Filrst] ; Sept.  ’Aaptnv,  ’Acrspwp),  the  name  I 
of  two  men,  and  also  of  a place. 

1.  The  third  son  of  Reuben  (Gen.  xlvi,  9 ; Exod.  vi, 

14;  1 Chron.  iv,  1 ; v,  3).  His  descendants  were  called 
Hezronites  ( Chetsroni ',  Sept.  ’Acrpum,  Numb, 

xxvi,  6,  21).  B.C.  1874. 

2.  The  oldest  of  the  two  sons  of  Pharez  and  grandson 
of  Judah  (Gen.  xlvi,  12;  Ruth  iv,  18, 19;  1 Cliron.  ii,  5, 

9,  18,  21,  24,  25) ; called  Esrom  (’Eer pwp)  in  Matt,  i,  3. 
B.C.  1856. 

3.  A place  on  the  southern  boundary  of  Judah,  west 
of  Kadesh-Barnea,  and  between  that  and  Adar  (Josh, 
xv,  3) ; otherwise  called  Hazor  (ver.  25).  The  punc- 
tuation and  enumeration,  however,  require  us  to  connect 
the  associated  names  thus:  Kerioth-hezron  = Hazor- 
anam.  See  Hazor. 

Hez'ronite  (Numb,  xxvi,  6,  21).  See  Hezron  1. 

Hibbard,  Billy,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
was  born  at  Norwich,  Conn.,  Feb.  24,  1771,  united  with 
the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church  in  1792,  entered  the 
New  York  Conference  in  1798,  in  1821-2-3  was  super- 
annuated, became  effective  in  1824,  was  finally  superan- 
nuated in  1828,  and  died  Aug.  17, 1844,  having  preached 
forty-six  years.  He  was  an  eccentric  but  very  able 
man.  His  wit  and  humor,  and  his  long,  able,  and  abun- 
dantly successful  labors  in  the  Church,  furnish  the  ma- 
terial of  an  interesting  biography.  He  possessed  a vig- 
orous intellect,  and  acquired  a sound  and  effective  store 
of  theological  and  general  knowledge.  His  piety  was 
deep  and  cheerful.  See  Minutes  of  Conferences,  iii,  600; 
Stevens,  History  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church', 
Sherman’s  New-England  Divines,  p.  285 ; Life  of  Billy  ' 
Hibbard  (N.  Y.  12mo) ; Sprague,  Annals,  vii,  298. 

Hickes,  George,  D.D.,  a nonjuring  divine  of  great 
learning,  was  bom  June  20, 1642,  at  Newsham,  in  York- 
shire; was  educated  at  St.  John’s  College,  Oxford,  and 
in  1644  was  elected  fellow  of  Lincoln  College.  He  be- 
came chaplain  to  the  duke  of  Lauderdale  in  1676,  king’s 
chaplain  in  1682,  and  dean  of  "Worcester  in  1683.  He 
was  disappointed  of  the  bishopric  of  Bristol  by  the  death 
of  Charles  II.  After  the  Revolution  of  1688,  refusing  to 
take  the  oaths  to  William  III,  he  was  deprived  in  1689, 
and  became  an  active  enemy  of  the  government.  He 
was  consecrated  bishop  of  Thetford  by  the  Nonjurors  in 
1694,  and  died  in  1715.  His  scholarship  is  shown  in  his 
valuable  Antiquce  Litteraturce  Septentriunulis  Thesaurus 
(Oxford,  1705,  3 vols.  fol.),  and  his  Institutiones  Gram- 
matical A nglo-Saxonicai  (Oxford,  1 G89, 4to).  Among  his 
theological  and  controversial  writings,  which  were  very 
numerous,  are  The  Christian  Priesthood,  and  the  Dignity 
of  the  Episcopal  Order  (new  ed.  Oxford,  1847,  3 vols. 
8vo) : — Bibliotheca  Script.  Ecclesice  A nglicance  (London, 
1709,  8vo) : — Sermons  (London,  1713,  2 vols.  8vo).  See 
Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  32  sq.;  Lathbury,  History  of  the 
Nonjurors. 

Hicks,  Elias,  a member  of  the  Society  of  Friends, 
or  Quakers,  and  the  author  of  a schism  in  that  body, 
was  born  at  Jericho,  L.  I.,  March  19,  1748,  and  in  early 
life  became  a preacher  .in  the  society.  Imbibing  So- 
cinian  opinions  as  to  the  Trinity  and  the  Atonement,  he 
began  to  preach  them,  cautiously  at  first,  and  with  little 
sympathy  from  his  brethren.  By  “degrees,  however, 
the  boldness  of  his  views  and  the  vigor  with  which  he 
repelled  assailants  began  to  attract  attention,  and  to  win 
hearers  over  to  his  opinions,  which,  proclaimed  without 
faltering,  in  public  and  private  for  years,  at  length  found 
large  numbers  of  sympathizers,  who,  with  Mr.  Hicks 
himself,  unable  to  impress  their  convictions  upon  the 
denomination  at  large,  in  1827  seceded  from  that  body, 
and  set  up  a distinct  and  independent  association,  but 
still  holding  to  the  name  of  Friends.  In  this  secession 
were  members  from  the  Yearly  Meetings  of  New  York, 
Philadelphia,  Baltimore,  Ohio,  Indiana,  and  New  Eng- 
land.” He  was  a man  of  great  acuteness  and  energy 
of  intellect,  and  of  elevated  personal  character.  He 
died  at  Jericho  Feb.  27,  1830.  He  published  Observa- 


tions on  Slavery  (New  York,  1811,  12mo)  : — Journal  of 
Life  and  Labors  (Philadelphia,  1828)  : — Sermons  (1828, 
8vo): — Letters  relating  to  Doctrines  (1824,  12mo).  See 
Christian  Examiner , li,  321;  Senneff,  Answer  to  Elias 
Hicks’s  Blasphemies  (1837,  2d  ed.  12mo);  Allibone,  Dic- 
tionary of  Authors,  i,  842;  Janney,  Hist,  of  the  Friends 
(4  vols.  12mo)  ; Gibbons,  Review  and  Refutation  (Phila- 
delphia, 1847,  l2mo);  and  the  article  Friends  (No.  2). 

Hicksites.  See  IIicks. 

Hid'dai  (Heb.  Hidday',  exuberant  or  mighty; 
Sept.  Alex.  INIS.  ’AOOn/,  Vat.  MS.  omits;  Vulg.  Ileddai), 
one  of  the  thirty-seven  heroes  of  David’s  guard  (2  Sam. 
xxiii,  30),  described  as  “of  the  torrents  of  Gaash.”  In 
the  parallel  list  of  1 Chron.  (xi,  32)  the  name  is  given 
as  Hurai  (q.  v.),  in  favor  of  which  reading  Ivennicott 
( Dissert . p.  194)  decides. — Smith. 

Hid'dekel  (Heb.  Chidde'kel,  in  pause  Chid- 

da'kel,  bp  "in ; Sept.  TiypiQ,  to  which  in  Dan.  x,  4 it 
adds  ’EvetKeA  v.  r.  ’EccekeX  ; Vulg.  Tigris),  the  name 
of  the  third  of  the  four  rivers  of  Paradise,  being  that 
which  runs  on  the  border  (ms^p)  of  Assyria  (Gen.  ii, 
14),  and  “the  great  river”  on  the  banks  of  which  Dan- 
iel received  his  remarkably  minute  vision,  or,  rather, 
angelic  prediction  of  the  mutual  history  of  Egypt  and 
Syria  (Dan.  ii,  4).  There  has  never  been  much  dispnte 
of  the  traditional  interpretation  which  identifies  the 
Tigris  with  the  Hiddekel.  According  to  Gesenins  {The- 
saur.  p.  448),  this  river  in  Aramaean  is  called  Diyla,  in 
Arabic  Diglat, in  Zend  7>#er,inPehlvi  Tegeraf  stream;” 
whence  have  arisen  both  the  Aramaean  and  Arabic  forms, 
to  which  also  we  trace  the  Hebrew  Dekel  divested  of  the 
prefix  Hid.  This  prefix  denotes  activity,  rapidity,  ve- 
hemence, so  that  Hid-dekel  signifies  “ the  rapid  Tigris.” 
From  the  introduction  of  the  prefix,  it  would  appear 
that  the  Hebrews  were  not  entirely  aware  that  Teger, 
represented  by  their  bp%  Dekel,  by  itself  signified  ve- 
locity; so  in  the  langnage  of  Media,  Tigris  meant  an 
arrow  (Strabo,  ii,  527 ; Pliny,  Hist.  Nat.  vi,  27 ; comp. 
Persic  teer,  “arrow;”  Sanscrit  tigra,  “sharp,”  “swift”); 
hence  arose  such  pleonasms  as  “king  Pharaoh”  and 
“ the  Al-coran.”  Fiirst,  however  {Ileb.  Lex.  s.  v.),  re- 
gards the  last  syllable  as  a mere  termination  to  an  orig- 
inal form  p“H,  Hiddek,  from  p” rt,  to  be  sharp,  hence  to 
flow  swiftly.  “The  form  Diglath  occurs  in  the  Tar- 
gums  of  Onkelos  and  Jonathan,  in  Josephus  {Ant.  i,  1), 
in  the  Armenian  Eusebius  {Chron.  Can.  pt.  i,  c.  2),  in 
Zonaras  {Ann.  i,  2),  and  in  the  Armenian  version  of  the 
Scriptures.  It  is  hardened  to  Diglit  (Diglito)  by  Pliny 
{Hist.  Nat.  vi,  27).  The  name  now  in  use  among  the 
inhabitants  of  Mesopotamia  is  Dijleh.  It  has  generally 
been  supposed  that  Iligla  is  a mere  Shemitic  corruption 
of  Tigra,  and  that  this  latter  is  the  true  name  of  the 
stream ; but  it  must  be  observed  that  the  two  forms  are 
found  side  by  side  in  the  Babylonian  transcript  of  the 
Behistnn  inscription,  and  that  the  ordinary  name  of  the 
stream  in  the  inscriptions  of  Assyria  is  Tiggar.  More- 
over, if  we  allow  the  Dekel  of  Hid-dekel  to  mean  the  Ti- 
gris, it  wonld  seem  probable  that  this  was  the  more  an- 
cient of  the  two  appellations.  Perhaps,  therefore,  it  is 
best  to  suppose  that  there  was  in  early  Babylonian  a 
root  dik,  equivalent  in  meaning,  and  no  doubt  connected 
in  origin,  with  the  Arian  tig  or  tij,  and  that  from  these 
two  roots  were  formed  independently  the  two  names, 
Dekel,  Dikla,  or  Digla,  and  Tiggar,  Tigra,  or  Tigris. 
The  stream  was  known  by  either  name  indifferently ; 
but,  on  the  whole,  the  Arian  appellation  predominated 
in  ancient  times,  and  was  that  most  commonly  used 
even  by  Shemitic  races.  The  Arabians,  however,  when 
they  conquered  Mesopotamia,  revived  the  true  Shemitic 
title,  and  this  {Dijleh)  continues  to  be  the  name  by 
which  the  river  is  known  to  the  natives  down  to  the 
present  day”  (Smith). 

The  Tigris  rises  in  the  mountains  of  Armenia,  about 
fifteen  miles  south  of  the  sources  of  the  Euphrates,  and 
pursues  nearly  a regular  course  south-east  till  its  juno 


IIIEL 


233 


HIERARCHY 


tion  with  that  river  at  Korna,  fifty  miles  above  Basrah 
(Bassorah).  The  Tigris  is  navigable  for  boats  of  twenty 
or  thirty  tons’  burden  as  far  as  the  mouth  of  the  Odor- 
neh,  but  no  further;  and  the  commerce  of  Mosul  is  con- 
sequently carried  on  by  rafts  supported  on  inflated  sheep 
or  goats’  skins.  See  Float.  These  rafts  are  floated 
down  the  river,  and  when  they  arrive  at  Bagdad  the 
wood  of  which  they  are  composed  is  sold  without  loss, 
and  the  skins  are  conveyed  back  to  Mosul  by  camels. 
The  Tigris,  between  Bagdad  and  Korna,  is,  on  an  aver- 
age, about  two  hundred  yards  wide ; at  Mosul  its  breadth 
does  not  exceed  tliree  hundred  feet.  The  banks  are 
steep,  and  overgrown  for  the  most  part  with  brushwood, 
the  resort  of  lions  and  other  wild  animals.  The  middle 
part  of  the  river’s  course,  from  Mosul  to  Korna,  once  the 
seat  of  high  culture  and  the  residence  of  mighty  kings, 
is  now  desolate,  covered  with  the  relics  of  ancient  great- 
ness in  the  shape  of  fortresses,  mounds,  and  dams,  which 
had  been  erected  for  the  defence  and  irrigation  of  the 
country.  At  the  ruins  of  Nimrud,  eight  leagues  below 
Mosul,  is  a stone  dam  quite  across  the  river,  which, 
when  the  stream  is  low,  stands  considerably  above  the 
surface,  and  forms  a small  cataract ; but  when  the  stream 
is  swollen,  no  part  of  it  is  visible,  the  water  rushing 
over  it  like  a rapid,  and  boiling  up  with  great  impetu- 
osity. It  is  a work  of  great  skill  and  labor,  and  now 
venerable  for  its  antiquity.  The  inhabitants,  as  usual, 
attribute  it  to  Nimrod.  It  is  called  the  Zikr  ul-Aawaze. 
At  some  short  distance  below  there  is  another  Zikr 
(dike),  but  not  so  high,  and  more  ruined  than  the  for- 
mer. The  river  rises  twice  in  the  year:  the  first  and 
great  rise  is  in  April,  and  is  caused  by  the  melting  of 
the  snows  in  the  mountains  of  Armenia ; the  other  is  in 
November,  and  is  produced  by  the  periodical  rains.  (See 
Kinneir,  Geog.  Mem.  of  Persian  Empire , p.  9,  10;  Rich’s 
Koordistan ; Chesney’s  Euphrates  Expedition  ; Sir  R.  K. 
Porter’s  Travels;  etc.) — Kitto.  See  Tigris. 

Hi'el  (lleb.  Chiel',  bx*H,  life  of,  i.  a.  from  God,  or 
perh.  for  blS^rP,  God  shall  live ; Sept.  a native 

of  Bethel,  who  rebuilt  Jericho  (B.C.  post  915),  above 
700  years  after  its  destruction  by  the  Israelites,  and 
who,  in  so  doing  (1  Kings  xvi,  3d),  incurred,  in  the 
death  of  his  eldest  son  Abiram  and  his  youngest  son 
Segub,  the  effects  of  the  imprecation  pronounced  by 
Joshua  (Josh,  vi,  26) : 

“ Accursed  the  man  in  the  sight  of  Jehovah, 

Who  shall  arise  and  build  this  city,  even  Jericho  ; 

With  [the  loss  ofj  his  first-born  shall  he  found  it, 

And  with  [the  loss  of]  his  youngest  shall  he  fix  its  gates.” 

— Kitto.  See  Jericho.  Strabo  speaks  of  such  cursing 
of  a destroyed  city  as  an  ancient  custom,  and  instances 
the  curses  imprecated  by  Agamemnon  and  Croesus  (Gro- 
tius,  Annot.  ad  Josh,  vi,  26) ; Masius  compares  the  curs- 
ing of  Carthage  by  the  Romans  (Poli  Syn.).  The  term 
Bethelite  (“’bXFt  P*^)  here  only  is  by  some  rendered 
family  of  cursing  (Pet.  Martyr),  and  also  house  or  place 
of  airsing  (Ar.,  Syr.,  and  Chald.  verss.),  qu.  !"tbx  P"3  ; 
but  there  seems  no  reason  for  questioning  the  accuracy 
of  the  Sept,  d Bat9i]\tTt]Q,  which  is  approved  by  most 
commentators,  and  sanctioned  by  Gesenius  (Lex.  s.  v.). 
The  rebuilding  of  Jericho  was  an  intrusion  upon  the 
kingdom  of  Jehoshaphat,  unless,  with  Peter  Martyr,  we 
suppose  that  Jericho  had  already  been  detached  from  it 
by  the  kings  of  Israel. — Smith.  See  Accursed. 
Hieracas.  See  Hierax. 

Hierap'olis  ('Ifpd7ro\i£,  sacred  city),  a city  of 
Phrygia,  situated  above  the  junction  of  the  rivers  Ly- 
cus  and  Mieander,  not  far  from  Colossae  and  Laodicea, 
where  there  was  a Christian  church  under  the  charge 
of  Epaphras  as  early  as  the  time  of  the  apostle  Paul, 
who  commends  him  for  his  fidelity  and  zeal  (Colos.  iv, 
12,  13).  The  place  is  visible  from  the  theatre  at  Lao- 
dicea, from  which  it  is  five  miles  distant  northward. 
Its  association  with  Laodicea  and  Colossus  is  just  what 
we  should  expect,  for  the  tliree  towns  were  all  in  the  ! 


' basin  of  the  Mieander,  and  within  a few  miles  of  one  an- 
other. It  is  probable  that  Ilierapolis  was  one  of  the 
*•  illustres  Ashe  urbes”  (Tacitus,  A mu  xiv,  27)  which, 
with  Laodicea,  were  simultaneously  desolated  by  an 
earthquake  about  the  time  when  Christianity  was  estab- 
lished in  this  district.  There  is  little  doubt  that  the 
church  of  Ilierapolis  was  founded  at  the  same  time  with 
that  of  Colossie,  and  that  its  characteristics  in  the  apos- 
tolic period  were  the  same.  Smith,  in  his  journey  to 
the  Seven  Churches  (1671),  was  the  first  to  describe  the 
ancient  sites  in  this  neighborhood.  He  was  followed 
by  Pococke  and  Chandler;  and  more  recently  by  Rich- 
ter, Cockerell,  Hartley,  Arundel,  etc.  The  place  now 
bears  the  name  of  Pambuk-Kalek  (Cotton-Castle),  from 
the  white  appearance  of  the  cliffs  of  the  mountain  on 
the  lower  summit,  or,  rather,  an  extended  terrace,  on 
which  the  ruins  are  situated.  It  owed  its  celebrity,  and 
probably  the  sanctity  indicated  by  its  ancient  name,  to 
its  very  remarkable  thermal  springs  of  mineral  water 
(Dio  Cass,  lxviii,  27 ; Pliny,  Hist.  Nat.  ii,  95),  the  sin- 
gular effects  of  which,  in  the  formation  of  stalactites 
and  incrustations  by  its  deposits,  are  shown  in  the  ac- 
counts of  Pococke  (ii,  pt.  2,  c.  13)  and  Chandler  (Asia 
Minor,  c.  68)  to  have  been  accurately  described  by 
Strabo  (xiii,  629).  A great  number  and  variety  of  sep- 
ulchres are  found  in  the  approaches  to  the  site,  which 
on  one  side  is  sufficiently  defended  by  the  precipices 
overlooking  the  valleys  of  the  Lycus  and  Mieander,  while 
on  the  other  sides  the  town  walls  are  still  observable. 
The  magnificent  ruins  clearly  attest  the  ancient  impor- 
tance of  the  place.  The  main  street  can  still  be  traced 
in  its  whole  extent,  and  is  bordered  by  the  remains  of 
three  Christian  churches,  one  of  which  is  upwards  of 
300  feet  long.  About  the  middle  of  this  street,  just 
above  the  mineral  springs,  Pococke,  in  17-11,  thought 
that  he  distinguished  some  remains  of  the  Temple  of 
Apollo,  which,  according  to  Damascius,  quoted  by  Pho- 
tius  ( Biblioth . p.  1054),  was  in  this  situation.  But  the 
principal  ruins  are  a theatre  and  gymnasium,  both  in  a 
state  of  uncommon  preservation;  the  former  346  feet  in 
diameter,  the  latter  nearly  filling  a space  400  feet  square. 
Strabo  (loc.  eit.)  and  Pliny  (Ilist.  Nat.  v,  29)  mention  a 
cave  called  the  Plutonium,  filled  with  pestilential  vapors, 
similar  to  the  celebrated  Grotto  del  Cane  in  Italy.  High 
up  the  mountain-side  is  a deep  recess  far  into  the  moun- 
tain ; and  Mr.  Arundell  says  that  he  should  have  sup- 


posed that  the  mephitic  cavern  lay  in  this  recess,  if  Mr. 
Cockerell  had  not  found  it  near  the  theatre,  the  position 
anciently  assigned  to  it ; and  he  conjectures  that  it  may 
be  the  same  in  which  Chandler  distinguished  the  area 
of  a stadium  (Arundell,  Asia  Minor,  ii,  210).  The  same 
writer  gives,  from  the  Oriens  Chnstianus,  a list  of  the 
bishops  of  Hicrapolis  down  to  the  time  of  the  emperor 
Isaac  Angelus.  (See  Col.  Leake’s  Gcogr.  of  Asia  Mi- 
nor, p.  252,  253;  Hamilton’s  Res.  in  Asia  Minor,  i,  514, 
517  sq. ; Fellows,  Lycio,  p.  270 ; Asia  Minor,  p.  283  sq. ; 
Cramer’s  A sia  Minor,  ii, 37  sq.). — Kitto;  Smith. 

IIIERAPOLIS,  Council  of.  held  about  A.D.  197  by 
Apollinarins,  bishop  of  the  see,  aud  26  other  bishops, 
who  excommunicated  Montanus,  Maximilian,  and  The- 
odotus. — Landon,  Man.  of  Councils,  p.  265. 

Hierarchy  (ttpapfia,  from  \epdc,  sacred,  and  do- 
\tov,  ruler),  a term  used  to  denote,  in  churches  in  which 
the  whole  ruling  power  is  held  by  the  priesthood,  a sa- 
cred principality  instituted  by  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in 


HIERARCHY 


234 


HIERARCHY 


his  Church,  and  consisting  of  orders  of  consecrated  per- 
sons, with  gradations  of  rank  and  power,  who  constitute 
exclusively  the  governing  and  ministering  body  in  the 
Church.  It  implies  the  transmission,  under  what  is 
called  the  Apostolical  Succession  [see  Succession],  of 
the  authority  to  teach  and  govern  given  by  Christ  to 
his  apostles;  and  thus  the  hierarchy,  as  a corporation, 
perpetuates  itself.  The  hierarchy  on  earth  is  supposed 
to  correspond  with  the  hierarchy  of  “angels  and  arch- 
angels, and  all  the  hosts”  of  heaven,  with  the  Virgin 
Mary  at  their  head.  The  Christian  hierarchy,  again,  is 
supposed  to  correspond  to  the  Jewish  gradations  of  the 
priesthood.  See  Church.  The  notion  of  a “ continu- 
ity of  plan  running  on  from  the  Jewish  hierarchical  sys- 
tem into  the  Christian,  i.  e.  the  Romish  spiritual  monar- 
chy, is  an  ideal  analogy  which  has  captivated”  many 
an*  ardent  imagination,  from  Cyprian  down  to  Manning 
and  Newman.  For  an  exposure  of  its  fallacy,  see  Tay- 
lor, Ancient  Christianity  (Lond.  1844,  2 vols.  8vo),  ii,  403. 

I.  Roman  Catholic. — According  to  the  Homan  Catho- 
lic theory,  the  hierarchy  is  divinely  ordained,  and  was 
established  in  the  Church  by  Christ,  who  gave  the  pri- 
macy of  authority  to  Peter,  and  instituted,  in  subordina- 
tion to  the  primacy,  the  three  orders  bishops,  priests, 
and  deacons.  The  primacy  of  Peter  is  perpetuated  in 
the  popes,  from  whom  bishops  hold  their  authority  to 
govern  their  dioceses,  and  to  ordain  priests  and  deacons. 
This  monarchico-hierarchical  system  grew  up  gradually 
in  the  Latin  Church  by  a series  of  usurpations  of  power 
on  the  part  of  the  bishops  of  Home  in  succeeding  centu- 
ries. In  the  Greek  Church  the  hierarchy  is  oligarchical, 
not  monarchical,  no  patriarch  having  supreme  author- 
ity over  all  other  prelates  (see  Sell  aft',  in  Brit,  and  For- 
eiyn  Evangelical  Review,  Oct.  18G5  and  Jan.  1866).  The 
Homan  hierarchy  is  divided  into  the  hierarchy  of  orders 
and  the  hierarchy  of  jurisdiction.  The  hierarchy  of  or- 
ders, again,  includes  the  hierarchy  by  divine  right  (juris 
tlivini)  and  the  hierarchy  by  ecclesiastical  right  (juris 
ecclesiastici).  * 

(I.)  Hierarchy  of  Orders. — (1.)  The  hierarchy  juris 
divini  includes,  1.  Bishops  (sacerdotes  primi  ordinis , api- 
ces et  principes  omnium),  who  are  successors  of  the  apos- 
tles, and  by  whom  alone,  through  ordination,  the  minis- 
try of  Christ  is  preserved  among  men.  As  to  order,  the 
bishops  are  only  a fuller  form  of  the  order  of  priests, 
with  governing  and  ordaining  power  superadded.  Some 
Roman  Catholics  hold  that  bishops  have  their  authority 
by  divine  right  immediately,  others  (and  these  are  now 
the  majority)  that  they  have  it  mediately  through  the 
pope.  See  Episcoi’ACY.  2.  Priests  (presbyters),  who 
receive  from  the  bishop,  by  ordination,  the  power  to 
administer  the  sacraments,  to  change  the  bread  and 
wine  into  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ,  and  to  absolve 
penitents  from  their  sins.  The  place  in  which  they 
shall  exercise  these  functions  is  not  optional  with  them- 
selves, but  depends  entirely  upon  the  will  of  the  bishop. 
3.  Deacons,  who  serve  as  helpers  to  bishops  and  priests 
in  the  administration  of  the  sacraments,  and  in  the  pas- 
toral care  of  the  sick  and  poor. 

(2.)  The  hierarchy  of  ecclesiastical  right  includes  the 
minor  orders  of  subdeacons,  acolytes,  exorcists,  lietors, 
and  doorkeepers,  being  all  extensions  of  the  diaconate 
downwards,  so  to  speak. 

(II.)  Hierarchy  of  Jurisdiction. — This  embraces  the 
manifold  “principalities  and  powers”  which  have  been 
constituted  in  the  Church  in  the  course  of  her  progress 
towards  universal  dominion.  It  includes  archdeacons, 
archpresbyters,  deans,  vicars,  inferior  prelates,  and  cardi- 
nals. In  the  order  of  bishops,  again,  there  are  archbish- 
ops, metropolitans,  exarchs,  and  patriarchs.  The  pope 
is  at  the  head  of  all,  the  bearer  of  all  the  functions  of 
every  office,  and  the  source  of  authority  for  each.  See 
Papal  System.  The  Roman  hierarchy  is  a vast  polit- 
ico-ecclesiastical corporation,  with  the  pope  at  its  head, 
claiming  imiversal  dominion  over  all  men  and  over  all 
governments.  See  Curia  Romana  ; Pope.  It  is  a great 
power,  more  important,  as  De  Maistre,  one  of  the  great- 


est modem  Roman  writers  remarks,  than  sound  doctrine, 
inasmuch  as  it  is  “ more  indispensable  to  the  preserva- 
tion of  the  faith”  ( Lettres , ii,  285).  This  idea  of  a hie- 
rarchy with  a universal  dominion,  and  with  an  infallible 
head,  constituting  a visible  principality  on  earth,  and 
therefore  necessarily  using  secular  means  of  support,  and 
“ therefore  also  unavoidably  offering  the  highest  possi- 
ble excitements  to  carnal  ambition,”  is  a magnificent 
one,  considered  merely  as  a human  organization  seek- 
ing power  over  men ; but  it  is  utterly  out  of  harmony 
with  Scripture,  and  with  the  character  and  claims  of 
Christianity  as  a spiritual  religion. 

II.  After  the  Reformation,  the  churches  on  the  Con- 
tinent of  Europe  relinquished  the  hierarchy,  although  it 
might  have  been  retained  with  ease  in  Germany,  Swe- 
den, and  Denmark,  as  numerous  bishops  became  Prot- 
estants. The  Church  of  England,  however,  retained  it, 
and,  in  fact,  she  is  distinguished  from  all  other  Europe- 
an Protestant  churches  by  her  claim  to  a regular  hierar- 
chy, in  full  apostolical  succession.  The  High-Church 
notion  of  the  hierarchy  is  stated  by  J.  II.  Blunt  ( Dic- 
tionary of  Historical  and  Doctrinal  Theology,  s.  v.)  as 
follows : “ Our  Lord,  the  chief  bishop,  chose  out  twelve 
apostles  and  seventy  disciples,  corresponding  to  the 
twelve  princes  of  tribes  and  the  seventy  elders,  who,  with 
Moses,  governed  God’s  ancient  people,  in  order  to  show 
that  his  Church  is  the  true  spiritual  Israel  of  God.  St. 
Paul  gave  authority  to  Timothy  and  Titus  to  constitute 
bishops  and  deacons;  St.  Paul  exercised  visitation  over 
the  priests  summoned  to  Ephesus;  with  Barnabas  he 
ordained  priests  (Acts  xiv,  23).  St.  Peter  gave  charge 
to  priests  and  deacons  (1  Pet.  v,  1-5),  and  St.John  re- 
ceived divine  commission  to  exercise  anthority  over  the 
seven  angels  or  bishops  of  the  churches  of  Asia.  In  or- 
der to  preserve  the  unity  of  the  Church,  Christendom 
was  divided  into  dioceses,  each  with  a number  of  priests 
and  deacons  under  one  head,  the  bishop,  to  regulate  the 
faith  and  manners  of  the  people,  and  to  minister  to  them 
in  God’s  name.  The  hierarchy  embraces  the  power  of 
jurisdiction  and  of  order,  considered  as  a principality. 
The  hierarchy  of  order  was  established  to  sanctify  the 
Body  of  Christ,  and  is  composed  of  all  persons  in  orders. 
The  hierarchy  of  jurisdiction  was  established  for  the 
government  of  the  faithful,  and  to  promote  tlieir  eternal 
holiness,  and  is  composed  of  prelates.  The  hierarchy 
of  order  by  ministration  of  the  sacraments  and  preach- 
ing the  Gospel  aims  at  elevating  and  hallowing  the  spir- 
itual life  ; the  hierarchy  of  jurisdiction  is  for  the  promo- 
tion of  exterior  discipline.  The  hierarchy  of  order  con- 
fers no  jurisdiction,  but  simply  power  to  perform  eccle- 
siastical functions  and  administer  sacraments,  whereas 
the  other  hierarchy  bestows  jurisdiction,  and  conse- 
quently the  right  of  making  ordinances  concerning  the 
faith  and  ecclesiastical  discipline,  and  to  correct  offend- 
ers. The  principal  duty  of  ministers  of  the  Church  is  to 
lead  men  to  the  knowledge  and  worship  of  God.  and  the 
Church  therefore  requires  laws  and  rules  for  the  guid- 
ance of  her  ministers.  The  hierarchy  of  order,  that  of 
the  ministration  of  the  Word  and  sacraments,  appertains 
to  all  clergy  according  to  the  measure  of  their  power; 
the  hierarchy  of  jurisdiction,  which  is,  in  fact,  the  hierar- 
chy, being  the  chief  power  of  the  Church,  pertains  to 
prelates  alone,  but  cannot  exist  without  the  c tlur  hie- 
rarchy, although  the  latter  can  be  without  jurisdiction, 
which  it  presupposes,  and  is  its  foundation.  In  the  one 
the  clerical  character  or  order,  i.  e.  the  ecclesiastical  of- 
, dec,  only  is  regarded;  in  the  other  the  degree,  the  rank 
in  jurisdiction  of  a prelate,  is  alone  considered.  Roth 
have  one  origin  and  one  object,  and  both  flow  from  the 
clerical  character;  but  order  is  of  divine  right,  jurisdic- 
tion an  ecclesiastical  necessity,  with  its  differences  of 
chief  bishops,  prelacies,  and  ranks  of  ministers.”  The 
Protestant  Episcopal  Church  retains  the  hierarchy  of  or- 
der, viz.  bishops,  priests,  and  deacons,  together  with  the 
claim  of  apostolical  succession.  But  the  power  of  juris- 
diction is  divided  with  the  laity,  who  are  represented  in 
, the  highest  judicatory,  the  General  Convention,  and  in 


TIIERAX 


235 


HIEROGLYPHICS 


this  view  that  Church  is  not  hierarchical.  The  Metho- 
dist Episcopal  Church  preserves  the  order  of  bishops, 
presbyters  or  elders,  and  deacons,  but  does  not  ciaim 
that  her  episcopacy  retains  the  so-called  apostolical  suc- 
cession ; and  she  admits  the  laity  to  many  of  her  of- 
fices, especially  to  those  in  which  temporalities  are  con- 
cerned. The  Presbyterian  and  Congregational  church- 
es of  America  are  not  hierarchical  in  government.  See 
Bishops;  Church;  Episcopacy;  Laity;  Orders; 
Papal,  System;  Protestant  Episcopal  Church; 
Roman  Catholic  Church. 

Hierax  or  Hieracas,  an  Egyptian  ascetic  philos- 
opher, native  of  Leontus  or  Leontopolis,  classed  among 
the  heretics  of  the  3d  century.  Epiphanius,  Photius, 
and  Peter  of  Sicily  considered  him  a Manichxan.  “ He 
was,  at  all  events,  a perfectly  original  phenomenon,  dis- 
tinguished for  his  varied  learning,  allegorical  exegesis, 
poetical  talent,  and  still  more  for  his  eccentric  aseetism. 
He  taught  that,  as  the  business  of  Christ  on  earth  was 
to  promulgate  a new  law,  more  perfect  and  strict  than 
that  of  Moses,  he  prohibited  the  use  of  wine,  flesh,  mat- 
rimony, and  whatever  was  pleasing  to  the  senses.  Hi- 
erax denied  the  historical  reality  of  the  fall  and  the  res- 
urrection of  the  body;  excluded  children  dying  before 
years  of  discretion  from  the  kingdom  of  heaven ; distin- 
guished the  substance  of  the  Son  from  that  of  the  Fa- 
ther ; taught  that  Melcliizcdec  was  the  Holy  Ghost ; ob- 
scured the  sacred  volume  with  allegorical  interpreta- 
tions; and  maintained  that  paradise  was  only  the  joy 
and  satisfaction  of  the  mind.  His  followers  were  some- 
times called  Abstinents,  because  of  their  scrupulously  ab- 
staining from  the  use  of  wine  and  certain  meats.  He 
wrote  some  commentaries  on  .Scripture,  and  hymns, 
which  are  only  known  by  quotations  in  Epiphanius. 
See  Lardner,  Works,  iii,  2<S5;  Mosheim,  Comm,  ii,  404; 
Neaniler,  Church  History , i,  713  ; Schaff,  History  of  the 
Christian  Church,  p.  510;  Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate, 
xxiv,  647. 

Hier'eel  (Tepfi/X),  given  (1  Esdr.  ix,  21)  as  the 
name  of  one  of  the  “sons  of  Enimer”  who  divorced  their 
heathen  wives  after  the  Captivity;  evidently  the  Jehi- 
el  (q.  v.)  of  the  Heb.  text  (Ezra  x,  21). 

Hier'emoth  (lepepwij),  the  name  of  two  men  in 
the  Apocrypha. 

1.  A “son  ofEla,”who  divorced  his  Gentile  wife  after 
the  Captivity  (1  Esdr.  ix,  27) ; the  Jerimotil  (q.  v.)  of 
the  Heb.  text  (Ezra  x,  26). 

2 . A “ son  of  Mani”  who  did  the  same  (1  Esdr.  x,  30) ; 
the  Ramotii  (q.  v.)  of  the  llcb.  text  (Ezra  x,  29). 

Hierie'ltis  {’lepujXog  v.  r.  ’T{£p<i}\og),  another  of 
the  “ sons  of  Ela”  who  in  like  manner  divorced  his  wife 
(1  Esdr.  ix,  27)  ; the  Jehiel  (q.  v.)  of  Ezra  x,  26. 

Hier'mas  ('ho/idg),  one  of  “the  sons  of  Phoros” 
who  did  the  same  (1  Esdr.  x,  26) ; the  Kami aii  (q.  v.) 
of  the  lleb.  rext  (Ezra  x,  25). 

Hierocles,  governor  of  Bithynia,and  afterwards  of 
Alexandria  (A.D.  306),  is  said  by  Lactantius  fust.  Dicin, 
v,  2;  DeMorte  Persec.  c.  17)  to  have  been  the  principal 
adviser  of  the  persecution  of  the  Christians  in  the  reign 
of  the  emperor  Diocletian  (A.D.  302).  He  also  wrote 
two  books  against  Christianity',  entitled  Aoyoi  <pi\a\>)- 
6eig  irpbg  rovg  XpiOTtavovg  {Truth-loving  1 1 'ords  to  the 
Christians ),  which,  like  Porphyry’s  (q.  v.)  work,  have 
been  destroyed  by  the  mistaken  zeal  of  the  later  empe- 
rors, and  they  are  known  to  us  only  by  the  replies  of  Eu- 
sebius of  Ctesarea.  In  these,  according  to  Lactantius, 
“ he  endeavored  to  show  that  the  sacred  Scriptures  over- 
throw themselves  by  the  contradictions  with  which  they' 
abound;  he  particularly  insisted  upon  several  texts  as 
inconsistent  with  each  other;  and  indeed  on  so  many', 
and  so  distinctly,  that  one  might  suspect  he  had  some 
time  professed  the  religion  which  he  now  attempted  to 
expose.  He  chiefly'  reviled  Paid  and  Peter,  and  the 
other  disciples,  as  propagators  of  falsehood.  He  said 
that  Christ  was  banished  by  the  Jews,  and  after  that 


got  together  900  men,  and  committed  robl>ery’.  lie  en- 
deavored to  overthrow  Christ’s  miracles,  though  he  did 
not  deny'  the  truth  of  them,  and  aimed  to  show  that 
like  things,  or  even  greater,  lmd  been  done  by  Apollo- 
nius of  Ty'ana”  {Inst.  Dirin.  v,  2,  3).  Eusebius’s  treatise 
above  referred  to  is  1‘ Against  Hierocles in  it  he  re- 
views the  Life  of  Apollonius  written  by  Philostratus 
(published  by'  Olearius,  with  Latin  version,  Leips.  1709). 
See  Fabricius,  Bibliotheca  Grccca,  i,  792 ; Cave,  Hist.  Lit. 
anno  306;  English  Cyclopaedia  ; Farrar,  History  of  Free 
Thought,  p.  62,  64 ; Neander,  Ch.  Hist.},  173  ; bcliaff,  Ch. 
History,  i,  194;  Brockhaus,  Encyklop.  vii,  916;  Lardner, 
IFor&s,  vii,  207, 474,  etc. 

Hierocles,  a Neo-Platnnist  of  the  5th  century'  at 
Alexandria.  He  is  said  to  be  the  author  of  a Commen- 
tary  upon  the  Golden  1 'erscs  of  Pythagoras,  which  is  still 
extant ; and  also  a Discourse  on  Foreknowledge  and  Fate, 
of  which  Photius  has  preserved  large  extracts.  Stobie- 
ns  has  also  preserved  the  fragments  of  several  other 
works  which  are  ascribed  to  Hierocles.  The  Greek  text 
of  the  Commentary  on  the  Golden  Verses  of  Pythagoras 
was  first  published  by  Curterius  (Paris,  1583 ; reprinted 
at  London,  1654;  also  1742;  and  Padua,  1744).  The 
fragments  of  the  Discourse  on  Foreknowledge  and  Fate, 
in  which  Hierocles  attempts  to  reconcile  the  free-will  of 
man  with  the  foreknowledge  of  God,  have  been  edited 
by  XI orel  1 (Paris,  1593,  1597),  and  by  Pearson  (London, 
1655,  1673) ; the  latter  edition  contains  the  fragments 
of  the  other  works  of  Hierocles.  A complete  edition  of 
his  works  was  published  by  Needham  (Cambridge,  1709). 
Both  Pearson  and  Needham  confound  this  Hierocles 
with  Hierocles,  the  prefect  of  Bithymia.  The  Discourse 
on  Foreknowledge  and  Fate  was  translated  into  French 
by  Regnaud  (Lyons,  1560).  Grotius  translated  part  of 
this  work  into  Latin  in  his  Sententice  Philosophorum  de 
Fato  (Paris,  1624;  Amst.  1648;  reprinted  in  the  third 
volume  of  his  theological  works,  1679).  The  Commen- 
tary the  Golden  Verses  has  been  translated  into  Eng- 
lish by  llall,  London,  1657 : Norris,  London,  1682;  Ray- 
ner,  Norw.  1797;  and  into  French  (with  life)  by  Daeier, 
Paris,  1706.  See  English  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v. ; Smith,  Dic- 
tionary of  Biography  and  Mythology , ii,  453 ; August!, 
Dogmengeschichte,  i and  ii ; Lardner,  Works,  viii,  127. 

Hieroglyphics  (from  Ifpog,  sacred,  and  yXixpoj,  to 
carve),  the  term  usually  applied  to  the  inscriptions  in 
the  so-called  sacred  or  symbolical  characters  on  the 
Egyptian  monuments.  See  Egypt.  “They  were  either 
engraved  in  relief,  or  sunk  below  the  surface  on  the  pub- 
lic monuments  and  hard  materials  suited  for  the  glyptic 
art,  or  else  traced  in  outline  with  a reed  pen  on  papyri, 
wood,  slices  of  stone,  and  other  objects.  The  scribe,  in- 
deed, wrote  from  a palette  or  canon  called  pes,  with  pens, 
kash,  from  two  little  ink-holes  in  the  palette,  containing 
a black  ink  of  animal  charcoal,  and  a red  mineral  ink. 
The  hieroglyphics  on  the  monuments  are  sometimes 
sculptured  and  plain;  at  others,  decorated  with  colors, 
either  one  simple  tone  for  all  the  hieroglyphs,  which  are 
then  called  monochrome,  or  else  ornamented  with  a va- 
riety of  colors,  and  then  called  poly'cliromc;  and  those 
painted  on  coffins  and  other  objects  are  often  first  traced 
out,  and  then  colored  in  detail.  On  the  papyri  and 
some  few  inferior  materials  they'  are  simply'  sketched  in 
outline,  and  are  called  linear  hieroglyphs.  The  hiero- 
glyphs are  arranged  in  perpendicular  columns,  separa- 
ted by’  lines,  or  in  horizontal,  or  distributed  in  a sporadic 
manner  in  the  area  of  the  picture  to  which  they  refer. 
Sometimes  all  these  inodes  of  arrangement  are  found  to- 
gether. One  peculiarity'  is  at  once  discernible,  that  all 
the  animals  and  representations  face  in  the  same  direc- 
tion when  they'  are  combined  into  a text ; and  when 
mixed  up  with  reliefs  and  scenes,  they'  usually'  face  in 
the  direction  of  the  figures  to  which  they  are  attached. 
When  thus  arranged,  the  reliefs  and  hieroglyphs  resem- 
ble a MS.,  every  letter  of  which  should  also  be  an  illu- 
mination, and  they'  produce  a gay  and  agreeable  im- 
pression on  the  spectator.  They  are  written  very’  square, 


HIEROGLYPHICS 


236 


HIEROGLYPHICS 


the  spaces  are  neatly  and  carefully  packed,  so  as  to  leave 
no  naked  appearance  of  background. 

“The  invention  of  hieroglyphs,  called  Xeter  Mam, 
or  ‘ divine  words,’  was  attributed  to  the  god  Thoth,  the 
Egyptian  Logos,  who  is  repeatedly  called  the  scribe  of 
the  gods  and  lord  of  the  hieroglyphs.  Pliny  attributes 
their  invention  to  Menon.  The  literature  of  the  Egyp- 
tians was  in  fact  called  Hermaic  or  Hermetic,  on  ac- 
count of  its  supposed  divine  origin,  and  the  knowledge 
of  hieroglyphs  was,  to  a certain  extent,  a mystery  to  the 
uninitiated,  although  universally  employed  by  the  sac- 
erdotal and  instructed  classes.  To  foreign  nations,  the 
hieroglyphs  always  remained  so,  although  Moses  is  sup- 
posed to  have  been  versed  in  the  knowledge  of  them 
(Philo,  vita  Jloysis ) ; but  Joseph  is  described  (Gen.  xlii, 
23)  as  conversing  with  his  brethren  through  interpreters, 
and  does  not  appear  to  allude  to  hieroglyphic  writing. 
The  Greeks,  who  had  settled  on  the  coast  as  early  as 
the  6th  century  B.C.,  do  not  appear  to  have  possessed 
more  than  a colloquial  knowledge  of  the  language  (Diod. 
Sic.  lxxxi,  3,  4)  ; and  although  Solon,  B.C.  538,  is  said 
to  have  studied  Egyptian  doctrines  at  Sebennytus  and 
Heliopolis,  and  the  doctrines  of  Pythagoras  are  said  to 
have  been  derived  from  Egypt,  these  sages  could  only 
have  acquired  their  knowledge  from  interpretations  of 
hieroglyphic  writings.  IIecata?us  (B.C.  521)  and  He- 
rodotus (B.C.  456),  who  visited  Egypt  in  their  travels, 
obtained  from  similar  sources  the  information  they  have 
afforded  of  the  language  or  monuments  of  the  country7 
(Herod,  ii, 36).  Democritus  of  Abdera,  indeed,  about  the 
same  period.  (B.C.  459),  had  described  both  the  Ethiopian 
hieroglyphs  and  the  Babylonian  cuneiform,  but  his  work 
has  disappeared.  After  the  conquest  of  Egypt  by  Alex- 
ander, the  Greek  rulers  began  to  pay  attention  to  the 
language  and  history  of  their  subjects,  and  Eratosthenes, 
the  keeper  of  the  museum  at  Alexandria,  and  Mauetlio, 
the  liigh-priest  of  Sebennytus,  had  drawn  up  accounts 
of  the  national  chronology  and  history  from  hieroglyphic 
sources.  Under  the  Roman  empire,  in  the  reign  of  Au- 
gustus, one  Chferemon,  the  keeper  of  the  library  at  the 
Serapaeum,  had  drawn  up  a dictionary  of  the  hiero- 
glyphs ; and  both  Diodorus  and  Strabo  mention  them, 
and  describe  their  nature.  Tacitus,  later  imder  the  em- 
pire, gives  the  account  of  the  monuments  of  Thebes 
translated  by  the  Egyptian  priests  to  Germanicus;  but 
after  his  time,  the  knowledge  of  them  beyond  Egypt  it- 
self was  exceedingly  limited,  and  does  not  reappear  till 
the  third  and  subsequent  centuries  A.D.,  when  they 
are  mentioned  by  Ammianus  Marcellinus,  who  cites  the 
translation  of  one  of  the  obelisks  at  Rome  by  one  Her- 
mapion,  and  by  Julius  Valerius,  the  author  of  the  apoc- 
ryphal life  of  Alexander,  who  gives  that  of  another. 
Heliodorus,  a novelist  who  flourished  A.D.  400,  describes 
a hieroglyphic  letter  written  by  queen  Candace  (iv,  8). 
The  first  positive  information  on  the  subject  is  by  Cle- 
ment of  Alexandria  (A.D.  211),  who  mentions  the  sym- 
bolical and  phonetic,  or,  as  he  calls  it,  cyriologic  nature 
of  hieroglyphics  (Strom,  v).  Porphyry  (A.D.  304)  di- 
vides them  also  into  eoenologic  or  phonetic,  and  (enig- 
matic or  symbolic.  Horapollo  or  Horus-Apollus,  who  is 
supposed  to  have  flourished  about  A.D.  500,  wrote  two 
books  explanatory  of  the  hieroglyphics,  a rude,  ill-assort- 
ed confusion  of  truth  and  fiction,  in  which  are  given  the 
interpretation  of  many  hieroglyphs,  and  their  esoteric 
meaning.  After  this  writer,  all  knowledge  of  them  dis- 
appeared till  the  revival  of  letters.  At  the  beginning  ot 
the  16th  century  these  symbols  first  attracted  attention, 
and,  soon  after,  Ivircher,  a learned  Jesuit,  pretended  to 
interpret  them  by  vague  esoteric  notions  derived  from 
his  own  fancy,  on  the  supposition  that  the  hieroglyphs 
were  ideographic,  a theory  which  barred  all  progress, 
and  was  held  in  its  full  extent  by  the  learned,  till  Zoega, 
at  the  close  of  the  18th  century  (De  Orir/ine  Obdiscornm, 
fol.  Rom.  1797),  first  enunciated  that  the  duals  or  car- 
touches  contained  royal  names,  and  that  the  hieroglyphs, 
or  some  of  them,  were  used  to  express  sounds”  (Cham- 
bers, Cyclopaedia). 


“ The  knowledge  of  hieroglyphics  which  we  at  pres- 
ent possess  owes  its  origin  to  the  Rosetta  stone,  which 
is  now  in  the  British  Museum.  This  stone  was  found 
by  the  French  among  the  ruins  of  Fort  St.  Julien,  which 
is  situated  near  the  mouth  of  the  Rosetta  branch  of  the 
Nile,  and  was  given  up  to  the  English  in  accordance 
with  the  terms  of  the  treaty  of  Alexandria.  It  is  sup- 


The  Rosetta  Stone,  with  Specimens  of  the  three  Styles  of 
Characters  found  upon  it.  1, 1',  Sacred  or  Uieroglyph- 
ic ; 2.  2',  Enchorial  or  Demotic ; 3,  3',  Greek. 

posed  to  have  been  sculptured  about  B.C.  195,  and  con- 
tains a decree  in  honor  of  Ptolemy  V (Epiphanes)  writ- 
ten in  three  different  characters.  One  of  these  is  Greek, 
and  a part  of  it  has  been  explained  to  state  that  the 
decree  was  ordered  to  he  written  in  Sacred,  Enchorial, 
and  Greek  writing.  Dr.  Young  (.4  rchceologia,  1817)  was 
the  first  that  attempted  to  decipher  this  inscription,  in 
which  he  partially  succeeded  by  counting  the  recurrence 
of  the  more  marked  characters  in  the  hieroglyphics,  and 
comparing  them  with  those  that  occurred  about  the 
same  number  of  times  in  the  Greek.  Champollion  and 
Wilkinson  have  followed  up  Dr.  Young’s  discoveries 
with  great  ingenuity,  and  we  can  nowr  partially  read  in- 
scriptions which  before  were  wholly  unintelligible  to  us. 
Among  other  obstacles,  however,  this  remains  in  the 
way,  viz.  that  the  Rosetta  stone  was  sculptured  about 
B.C.  195,  and  in  Lower  Egypt ; while  the  major  part  of 
the  inscriptions  were  written  during  the  twelve  previous 
centuries,  and  are  found  in  Upper  Egypt.  Hieroglyph- 
ics are  written  either  from  left  to  right  or  right  to  left, 
according  to  the  direction  in  which  they  face ; though 
sometimes  the  columns  are  so  narrow  that  they  may  be 
almost  said  to  be  written  from  top  to  bottom.  They 
are  partly  pictorial;  thus  ‘ ox,’  ‘ goose,’  ‘ temple’  are  rep- 
resented by  pictures  or  pictorial  symbols  of  an  ox,  etc. 
At  other  times  they  are  phonetic,  and  written  by  an  al- 
phabet of  about  140  letters,  of  which  many  are  synony- 
mous ; some  being  adapted  for  writing,  others  for  sculp- 
ture; some  in  use  at  an  earlier  period,  others  at  a later. 

I The  powers  of  these  letters  are  determined  by  the  names 

I of  the  kings  in  which  they  are  found;  but,  as  this  can- 
not be  done  very  exactly,  they  are  generally  arranged 
rnider  about  twelve  of  our  primary  letters.  We  cannot, 
however,  distinguish  accurately  between  the  vowels,  or 
r and  rn,  and  other  cognate  letters.  The  names  of  sov- 
ereigns are  always  written  within  a ring  or  cartouche: 
those  of  any  other  person  are  distinguished  by  a sitting 


HIEROGLYPHICS  237  I HERON  YMITES 


figure  following  them : besides  these  there  is  nothing  to  | 
mark  the  difference  between  a letter  and  a pictorial 
symbol.  In  some  words  the  meaning  is  expressed 
twice ; once  by  a phonetic  combination,  and  again  by  a 
pictorial  symbol ; in  others  the  more  important  part  is 
symbolical,  and  the  grammatical  termination  is  spelled. 
Sometimes  also  we  find  a species  of  abbreviation;  thus 
the  word  ox  would  be  expressed  by  the  first  letter  of  the 
Coptic  word  signifying  ox. 

“ But  for  the  purpose  of  writing,  strictly  so  called, 
there  was  a less  ornamental  and  more  rapid  way  of 
forming  the  characters,  which  is  always  found  in  the 
MSS.,  and  which  would  be  the  natural  consequence  of 
using  the  pen  or  stylus.  This  is  called  by  Strabo  and 
Pliny  hieratic  writing,  the  hieroglyphics  being,  as  the 
name  imports,  peculiar  to  sculpture.  It  is  chiefly  by 
means  of  the  hieroglyphics  that  we  aTe  enabled  to  read 


HIEROGLYPHIC  ALPHABET. 


m.W>d.-.l.A  . T • 

E 

.w . JB.  ^ f* m ^ .x t 

u 

.4  * ] . ^ . // 

B 

J A . .lr  . *%•  | ^ . 

r 

— ,U. 

j 

A— ' ~ & .*=  . — . 

T»l 

LM.-.V-VYHA- 

L 

R 

,”Y'.  . 

j 

.““X  — 

1 

'.If  . o.fiv-? 

J 

s.  § .4  . 

1 

v— YA  ’ 

P 

Pn 

P 

NX.— Ij./V/Bh. 

( 

J 

i 

— p.U.&.s.Vi-lw 

Sj 

S3 

■'-v.n.s 

PH 

V 

Uo 

Kii 

Su 

X 

Sn 

uu . oe  . ^ ^ . 9 

^ ^ . 4U . A 

Bn 

H 

the  hieratic  writing,  the  latter  being,  for  the  most  part, 
an  abbreviated  way  of  writing  the  former.  The  Rosetta 
stone  contained  the  inscription  in  yet  another  set  of 
characters,  the  demotic  or  enchorial.  It  is  to  I)r.  Young 
that  we  owe  the  greater  part  of  our  knowledge  on  this 
subject.  lie  was  greatly  assisted  by  the  discovery  of 
two  or  three  papyri  written  in  this  character  with  Greek 
translations,  the  earliest  of  which  dates  in  the  reign  of 
Psammeticus,  about  B.C.  650.  An  alphabet  has  been 
formed  from  Greek  proper  names,  from  which  it  appears 
that  the  few  words  which  we  can  decipher  are  Coptic. 
In  this  writing  the  hieroglyphics  have  almost  wholly 
disappeared,  though  some  still  appear  scattered  here  and 
there.” — Kitto. 

A popular  account  of  the  mode  in  which  the  Rosetta 
stone  was  used  as  a key  for  deciphering  the  hieroglyph- 
ics may  be  found  in  l)r.  Hawks’s  Egypt  and  its  Monu- 
ments (N.  Y.  1850, 8vo),  and  a more  critical  statement  in 
Osburn’s  Monumental  History  of  Egypt  (London,  1854, 2 
vols.  8vo).  A complete  set  of  the  cartouches  of  the 
kings  is  given  by  Poole  in  his  Horae  Egyptiacce  (Lond. 
1851,  8vo).  Great  progress  has  of  late  been  made  in 
the  decipherment  of  these  records,  another  stone  having 
quite  recently  been  discovered  with  a bilingual  inscrip- 
tion (Lepsius,  Das  bilingue  Decret  von  Kanopus,  texts 
and  interlineal  translations,  etc.,  Berl.  1867  sq.,  4to),  and 
many  papyri  having  been  brought  to  light  and  read  by 
European  Egyptologists,  among  whom  Wilkinson,  Lep- 
sius, Diimichen,  and  Brugsch  may  be  especially  named. 
The  annexed  view  of  the  hieroglvphical  alphabet  is 
taken  from  Gliddon’s  Lectures  on  Egyptian  History  (N. 
Y.  1843,  imp.  8vo),  and  will  be  found  sufficient  for  deci- 
phering most  of  the  royal  names.  A brief  account  of 
the  language  which  these  characters  represent  may  be 
found  in  Rawlinson’s  Herodotus , vol.  ii.  A tolerably  com- 
plete view  of  the  subject  and  its  literature  is  contained 
in  Appleton’s  New  American  Cyclopaedia , s.  v.  The  fol- 
lowing are  some  of  the  latest  works  of  importance  on 
the  subject:  Sharpe,  Egyptian  Hieroglyphics  (Lond.  1861, 
8vo) ; Parrot,  Nouvelle  Traduction  des  Hieroglyphes  (Par. 
1857,  fol.) ; Tattam,  G?%ammar  of  the  Egyptian  Language 
(London,  1863, 8vo) ; Brugsch,  llieroglyphisches-Demoti- 
sches  Worterbnch  (of  an  extensive  character,  with  a full 
hieroglyph ical  grammar,  Leips.  1867  sq.).  See  Inscrip- 
tions. 

Hie  rom  ax,  a river  of  Palestine  (Pliny,  Hist.  Nat. 
v,  16),  the  Jarmoch  of  the  Talmud;  now  Nahr  Yarmuk 
(Edrisi  and  Abulfeda),  or  Sheriut  el-Mandhur  (Ritter, 
xv,  372).  The  principal  sources  are  near  Mezarib,  where 
they  form  a lake  of  half  an  hour  in  circumference. — Van 
de  Velde,  Memoir,  p.  321. 

Hieromnemon  (Gr.  Upopvijpm1 ).  I.  The  title  in 
ancient  history  of  that  one  of  the  two  deputies  scut  by 
each  tribe  to  the  Amphictyonic  Council  who  superin- 
tended the  religious  rites.  II.  An  officer  in  the  Greek 
Church,  who,  during  sendee,  stands  behind  the  bishop, 
and  points  out  to  him  in  order  the  psalms,  prayers,  etc. 
He  also  dresses  the  patriarchs,  and  shows  the  priests  to 
their  places. — Pierer,  viii,  368;  Brande,  ii,  124.  (J.  W.  M.) 

Hieron,  Samuel,  a clergyman  of  the  Church  of 
England,  somewhat  inclined  to  Puritanism,  was  bom  in 
1572,  was  educated  at  King’s  College,  Cambridge,  and 
was  presented  to  the  living  of  Modburv,  Devonshire, 
which  he  held  till  his  death  in  1617.  He  was  very  elo- 
quent as  well  as  pious.  His  sermons,  in  two  volumes, 
were  published  in  1635. — Darling,  Cyclop.  Biog.  i,  1470. 

Hieronymites,  or  Eremites  of  the  Order  of  Jerome, 
a monkish  order  which  -was  first  established  about  1370 
by  the  Portuguese  Vasco  and  the  Spaniard  Peter  I red. 
Pecha,  and  was  accredited  by  Gregoiy  XI  in  1373. 
Their  dress  is  a white  habit  and  a black  scapulary.  In 
Spain  and  the  Netherlands  this  order  became  very  opu- 
lent, being  possessed  of  many  convents ; Charles  \ be- 
longed to  this  order  after  his  abdication.  They  spread 
also  into  the  West  Indies'  and  Spanish  America.  At 
present  they  exist  only  in  the  latter  country.  Besides 


HIERONYMUS 


238 


HIGH-CIIURCIIMEN 


these,  there  exists  also  another  order  by  the  same  name, 
with,  however,  but  few  members,  founded  by  Peter  Gam- 
bacorti,  of  Pisa,  about  1380. — Ilelyot,  Ord.  Moncist.  ed. 
Migne, iii, 568 ; Brockhans,  Encyklop. via,  916.  (J . H.W.) 

Hieron'ymus  (' I tpwvv yog,  sacred  in  name,  Vulg. 
Hieronymus ),  a Syrian  general  in  the  time  of  Antiochus 
V.  Eupator  (2  Macc.  xii,  2).  The  name  was  made  dis- 
tinguished among  the  Asiatic  Greeks  by  Hieronymus 
of  Cardia,  the  historian  of  Alexander’s  successors. — 
Smith. 

Hieronymus.  See  Jerome,  St. 

Hierophant  or  Mystagogus  (Gr.  hpo<j>dvTyg, 
yvorayioyog ).  I.  The  high-priest  of  Demeter  who  con- 
ducted the  celebration  of  the  Eleusinian  Mysteries  and 
initiated  the  candidates,  being  always  one  of  the  Eumol- 
pidse,  and  a citizen  of  Attica.  The  office  was  for  life, 
and  regarded  of  high  religious  importance,  and  the  hi- 
erophant was  required  to  be  of  mature  age,  to  be  with- 
out physical  defects,  to  possess  a fine,  sonorous  voice 
suited  to  the  character  and  dignity  of  the  office,  and 
was  forbidden  to  marry,  though  that  prohibition  may 
have  applied  only  to  contracting  marriage  after  his  in- 
stallation. He  was  distinguished  by  a peculiar  cut  of 
his  hair,  by  the  strophion,  a sort  of  diadem,  and  by  a 
long  purple  robe.  In  the  Mysteries  he  represented  the 
Demiurge  or  World-creator,  was  the  only  authorized 
custodian  and  expositor  of  the  unwritten  laws  (hence 
also  styled  TTpoepyrgg),  and  the  utterance  of  his  name  in 
the  presence  of  the  uninitiated  was  forbidden.  II.  The 
name  is  also  given  in  the  Greek  Church  to  the  prior  of 
a monastery. — Chambers,  s.  v. ; Picrer,  viii,370;  Smith, 
j Diet,  o f Grk.  and  Horn.  Aniiq.  s.  v.  Euinolpkhc ; Braude, 
j Did.  ii,  125.  See  also  Hieromnemon.  (J.W.  M.) 

Hiester,  William,  a minister  of  the  German  Re- 
formed Church,  was  bom  in  Berks  County,  Pa.,  Oct.  11, 
1770.  In  youth  he  learned  the  trade  of  carpenter,  lie 
pursued  his  classical  and  theological  studies  with  Rev. 
Daniel  Wagner,  of  York,  Pa.  He  was  licensed  and  or- 
dained in  1799.  For  a short  time  he  served  several 
congregations  in  Lancaster  County,  Pa.,  when  he  was 
railed  to  Lebanon,  Lebanon  County,  Pa.,  in  which  charge 
he  labored  till  his  death,  Feb.  8,  1828.  He  is  remem- 
bered in  the  German  Reformed  Church  for  his  earnest 
piety,  great  zeal  in  his  pastoral  work,  and  the  active  in- 
terest he  took  in  the  establishment  of  its  Theological 
Seminary.  He  preached  both  in  the  German  and  Eng- 
lish languages.  (H.  II.) 

Higden,  Raxulth  or  Ralph,  an  English  writer 
of  the  14th  century,  was  a Benedictine  monk  of  the 
monastery  of  St.  Werberg,  in  Cheshire,  who  died  at  a 
very  advanced  age  in  1367  according  to  Bale,  or  in 
1373  according  to  Pits.  His  Polychronicon , a chronicle 
of  events  from  the  Creation  to  A.D.  1357,  was  written 
originally  in  Latin,  and  translated  into  English  in  1387 
by  John  of  Trevisa.  From  this  translation  Caxton  made 
his  version,  and,  continuing  in  an  eighth  book  the 
Chronicle  to  1460,  published  the  whole  under  the  title 
of  The  Po/ycronycon,  conteynyng  the  Barynges  and  Bedes 
of  many  Times , in  eycjht  Books , etc.  (1482,  fol.).  Trevi- 
sa’s  translation  “contains  many  rare  words  and  expres- 
sions, and  is  one  of  the  earliest  specimens  of  English 
prose.”  The  first  volume  of  a new  edition  (containing 
also  a translation  by  an  unknown  writer  of  the  15th 
century),  edited  by  C.  Babington,  B.D.,  appeared  in 
1865.  The  Polychronicon  is  frequently  cited  by  Eng- 
lish historians.  Bale  published  the  part  relating  to  the 
Britons  and  Saxons  in  his  Scriptores  Quindecim , etc. 
(Oxford,  1691).  Some  have  assigned  the  authorship  of 
the  Chester  Mysteries  (1382)  to  Higden,  but  on  doubtful 
grounds.  — Bale,  Illust.  Maj.  Brit.  Script.  Summ.;  Pits, 
Be  illust.  Any.  Script.;  Ilocfer,  Now.  Biog.  Generate, 
xxiv,  656;  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  83;  Westminster 
Review,  July,  1865,  p.  1 28.  (J.  W.  M .) 

Higgai'on  (Heb.  higgayon ',  ")i‘1S*7)  occurs  in  Psa. 
xcii,  3,  where,  according  to  Gesenius,  it  signifies  the 


murmuring  (Ftirst,  low  or  solemn)  tone  of  the  harp,  Sept. 
yef  qjcijg  iv  K&dpq..  In  Psa.  ix,  17,  Iliggaion  Selah  is 
a musical  sign,  prob.  for  a pause  in  the  instrumental  in- 
terlude, Sept.  tydi)  did  xf/aXyarog ; and  so  Symn.  Aqu. 
and  Vulg.  See  Selah.  In  Psa.  xix,  15  the  term  sig- 
nifies (and  is  rendered)  meditation,  in  Lam.  iii,  62  a de- 
vice. “Mendelssohn  translates  it  meditation,  thought, 
idea.  Knapp  (Bie  Psalmen)  identifies  it  in  Psa.  ix,  17 
with  the  Arabic  ‘’HP!  and  ‘ to  mock,’  and  hence-his 
rendering  ‘What  a shout  of  laughter!’  (because  the 
wicked  are  entrapped  in  their  own  snares)  ; but  in  Psa. 
xcii,  4 he  translates  it  by  ‘Lieder’  (songs).  R.  David 
Kimchi  likewise  assigns  two  separate  meanings  to  the 
word;  on  Psa.  ix,  17,  he  says,  ‘This  aid  is  for  us  (a  sub- 
ject of)  meditation  and  thankfulness,’  while  in  his  com- 
mentary on  the  passage,  Psa-  xcii,  4,  he  gives  to  the 
same  word  the  signification  of  melody,  ‘ This  is  the  mel- 
ody of  the  hymn  when  it  is  recited  (played)  on  the 
harp.’  ‘We  will  meditate  on  this  forever’  (Rashi,  Com- 
ment. on  Psa.  ix,  17).  In  Psa.  ix,  17,  Aben  Ezra’s  com- 
ment. on  ‘ Iliggaion  Selah’  is,  ‘ this  will  I record  in 
truth on  Psa.  xcii,  4 he  says,  ‘ Higgaion  means  the 
melody  of  the  hymn,  or  it  is  the  name  of  a musical  in- 
strument.’ It  would  seem,  then,  that  Higgaion  has  two 
meanings,  one  of  a general  character  implying  thought, 
reflection,  from  PI7H  (comp,  "22  Tsa.  ix,  17,  and 

cm  53  ^b?  CDimi,  Lam.  iii,  62),  and  another  in 
Psa.  ix,  17,  and  Psa.  xcii,  4,  of  a technical  nature,  bear- 
ing on  the  import  of  musical  sounds  or  signs  well  known 
in  the  age  of  David,  but  the  precise  meaning  of  which 
cannot  at  this  distance  of  time  be  determined”  (Smith). 
See  Psalms. 

Higgins,  Solomon,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
was  horn  in  Maryland  in  January,  1792.  In  his  twenty- 
second  year  he  began  to  preach,  but  failing  health  com- 
pelled him  to  quit  the  ministry,  and  for  several  years  he 
was  employed  as  a clerk  in  Pliiladelphia.  In  1821  he 
resumed  his  pastoral  connections,  and  the  remainder  of 
his  life  was  spent  in  the  service  of  the  Church  as  pas- 
tor and  as  Sunday-school  agent.  He  was  several  times 
stationed  in  Philadelphia,  and  was  a member  of  the 
General  Conferences  of  1828,  1832,  1886,  and  1840.  lie 
died  Feb.  12,  1867. — Minutes  of  Conferences,  1867,  p.  24. 

Higginson,  Francis,  a Congregational  minister 
and  first  pastor  of  Salem,  Mass.,  was  born  in  England  in 
1587,  graduated  at  Emanuel  College,  Cambridge,  and 
was  appointed  minister  of  a church  in  Leicester.  After 
some  time  he  became  a nonconformist,  and  was  excluded 
from  the  parish  church.  In  1629  he  received  letters 
from  the  governor  and  company  of  Massachusetts  in- 
viting him  to  proceed  with  them  to  New  England.  He 
accordingly  sailed,  and  on  his  arrival  at  Salem  he  was 
appointed  pastor  of  the  church.  He  died  of  hectic  fever 
in  August,  1 630.  lie  wrote  New  England's  Plantation,  or 
a short  and  true  Bescription  of  the  Commodities  and  Bis- 
comniodities  of  that  Country  (Lond.  1630,  4to).  See  Al- 
len, Am.  Blog.  Bictionary ; Sprague,  Annals,  i,  6. 

Higginson,  John,  son  of  the  preceding,  was  bom 
in  England  in  August,  1616,  and  came  to  Massachusetts 
with  his  parents  in  1629.  In  1636  he  removed  to  Con- 
necticut, engaging  in  teaching  and  in  theological  stud- 
I ies.  From  1659  until  his  death  in  1708  he  was  minister 
of  the  church  at  Salem,  Mass.  He  was  zealously  en- 
gaged in  controversy  with  the  Quakers,  but  subsequent- 
ly regretted  his  ardor  in  persecution.  He  published 
several  sermons  and  pamphlets.  See  Sprague,  Annals, 
i,  91. 

High-Churchmen,  a name  first  given  (circa  1700) 
to  the  nonjurors  in  England  who  refused  to  acknowl- 
edge William  III  as  their  lawfid  king.  It  is  now  usu- 
ally applied  to  those  in  the  Church  of  England  and  in 
the  American  Protestant  Episcopal  Church  who  hold 
exalted  notions  of  Church  prerogatives,  and  of  the  pow- 
ers committed  to  the  clergy,  and  who  lay  much  stress 
upon  ritual  observances  and  the  traditions  of  the  fa- 


HIGH  COMMISSION 


239 


HIGH  PLACE 


thers.  See  Walcott,  Sacred  A rchceoloyy,  p.  312 ; Hurst, 
Ilist.  Rationalism,  p.  512  sq. ; Kurtz,  Ch.  History , ii,  339 ; 
Baxter,  Ch.  Jlist.  ii,  549;  Skeats,  Hist,  of  Free  Churches, 
p.  289,  317,  318,  343 ; Kose,  Hist.  Chr.  Ch.  p.  370;  Eden, 
Tkeol.  Dictionary ; and  articles  England,  Church  of; 
and  Protestant  Episcopal  Ciiurcii. 

High  Commission,  Court  of,  a court  establish- 
ed in  England  in  1559  to  take  cognizance  of  spiritual  or 
ecclesiastical  offences,  and  to  indict  penalties  for  the 
same.  The  Puritans  complaining  loudly  of  the  juris- 
diction of  this  court,  a bill  passed  for  putting  down  both 
it  and  the  Star-Chamber  in  the  year  1041. — Neal,  Hist, 
of  Puritans,  i,  89  sq. 

High  Mass.  The  Mass  in  the  Church  of  Rome 
consists  in  the  “consecration  of  the  bread  and  wine  ‘into 
the  body  and  blood  of  Christ,’  as  they  say,  and  the  offer- 
ing up  of  the  same  body  and  blood  to  God  by  the  min- 
istry of  the  priest  for  a perpetual  memorial  of  Christ’s 
sacrifice  upon  the  cross,  and  a continuation  of  the  same 
unto  the  world’s  end.”  Iliyh  Mass  is  the  same  service, 
accompanied  by  all  the  ceremonies  which  custom  and 
authority  have  annexed  to  its  celebration,  and  read  be- 
fore the  high  altar  on  Simdays,  fast-days,  and  particu- 
lar occasions.  See  Mass. 

High  place  (iT22,  hamah' ; often  in  the  plural, 
IY1722  ; Sept,  in  the  historical  books,  ru  viptjXd,  rd  ; 
in  the  Prophets,  /3wgot ; in  the  Pentateuch, 

Lev.  xxvi,  30,  etc.;  and  once  ticwXa,  Ezek.  xvi,  16; 
Vidg.  excelsa,  fina)  often  occurs  in  connection  with 
the  term  grove.  By  “ high  places”  we  understand  nat- 
ural or  artificial  (ni*£2  ‘in2*  1 Kings  xiii,  32 ; 2 Kings 
xvi,  29;  comp.  1 Kings  xi,  7 ; 2 Kings  xxiii,  15)  emi- 
nences where  worship  by  sacrifice  or  offering  was  made, 
usually  upon  an  altar  erected  thereon;  and  by  a “grove” 
we  understand  a plantation  of  trees  around  a spot  in  the 
open  air  set  apart  for  worship  and  other  sacred  sendees, 
and  therefore  around  or  upon  the  “ high  places”  which 
were  set  apart  for  the  same  purposes.  See  Grove. 

We  find  traces  of  these  customs  so  soon  after  the  del- 
uge that  it  is  probable  they  existed  prior  to  that  event. 
It  appears  that  the  first  altar  after  the  deluge  was  huilt 
by  Noah  upon  the  mountain  on  which  the  ark  rested 
(Gen.  viii,  20).  Abraham,  on  entering  the  Promised 
Land,  built  an  altar  upon  a mountain  between  Beth-el 
and  Ilai  (xii,  7,  8).  At.  Beersheba  he  planted  a grove, 
and  called  there  upon  the  name  of  the  everlasting  God 
(Gen.  xxi,  33).  The  same  patriarch  was  required  to 
travel  to  the  Mount  Moriah,  and  there  to  offer  up  his 
son  Isaac  (xxii,  2,  4).  It  was  upon  a mountain  in  Gil- 
ead that  Jacob  and  Laban  offered  sacrifices  before  they 
parted  in  peace  (xxxi,  54).  In  fact,  such  seem  to  have 
been  the  general  places  of  worship  in  those  times ; nor 
does  any  notice  of  a temple,  or  other  covered  or  enclosed 
building  for  that  purpose,  occur.  Tims  far  all  seems 
clear  and  intelligible.  There  is  no  reason  in  the  mere 
nature  of  things  why  a hill  or  a grove  should  be  an  ob- 
jectionable, or,  indeed,  why  it  shoidd  not  be  a very  suit- 
able place  for  worship.  Yet  by  the  time  the  Israelites 
returned  from  Egypt,  some  corrupting  change  had  taken  i 
place,  which  caused  them  to  be  repeatedly  and  strictly 
enjoined  to  overthrow  and  destroy  the  high  places  and 
groves  of  the  Canaanites  wherever  they  found  them 
(Exod.  xxxiv,  13;  Deut.  vii,  5;  xii,  2,  3).  That  they 
were  not  themselves  to  worship  the  Lord  on  high  places 
or  in  groves  is  implied  in  the  fact  that  they  were  to 
have  but  one  altar  for  regular  and  constant  sacrifice; 
and  it  was  expressly  enjoined  that  near  this  sole  altar 
no  trees  should  be  planted  (Deut.  xvi,  21).  See  Altar. 
The  external  religion  of  the  patriarchs  was  in  some 
outward  observances  different  from  that  subsequently 
established  by  the  Mosaic  law,  and  therefore  they  should 
not  be  condemned  for  actions  which  afterwards  became 
sinful  only  because  they  were  forbidden  (Heidegger, 
Hist.  Pair.  II,  iii,  § 53).  It  is,  however,  quite  obvious 
that  if  every  grove  and  eminence  had  been  suffered  to 


become  a place  for  legitimate  worship,  especially  in  a 
country  where  they  had  already  been  defiled  with  the 
sins  of  polytheism,  the  utmost  danger  would  have  re- 
sulted to  the  pure  worship  of  the  one  true  God  (Haver- 
nick,  Einl.  i,  592).  It  would  infallibly  have  led  to  the 
adoption  of  nature-goddesses  and  “gods  of  the  hills”  (1 
Kings  xx,  2.3).  It  was  therefore  implicitly  forbidden 
by  the  law  of  Moses  (Deut.  xii,  1 1-14),  which  also  gave 
the  strictest  injunction  to  destroy  these  monuments  of 
Canaanitish  idolatry  (Lev.  xxvi,  30 ; Numb,  xxxiii,  52 ; 
Deut.xxxiii,  29;  where  Sept.  -pay//Awj),  without  stat- 
ing any  general  reason  for  this  command  beyond  the  fact 
that  they  had  been  connected  with  such  associations. 
It  seems,  however,  to  be  assumed  that  every  Israelite 
would  perfectly  understand  why  groves  and  high  places 
were  prohibited,  and  therefore  they  are  only  condemned 
by  virtue  of  the  injunction  to  use  but  one  altar  for  the 
purpose  of  sacrifice  (Lev.  xvii,  3,  4 ; Deut.  xii,  passim  ; 
xvi,  21 ; John  iv,  20).  This  practice,  indeed,  was  prob- 
ably of  great  antiquity  in  Palestine.  Upon  the  summit 
of  lofty  Iiermon  are  the  remains  of  a small  and  vert' 
ancient  temple,  towards  which  faced  a circle  of  temples 
surrounding  the  mountain.  See  IIermon.  That  a tem- 
ple should  have  been  built  on  a summit  of  bare  rock 
perpetually  covered  with  snow  shows  a strong  religious 
motive,  and  the  position  of  the  t cm] lies  around  the 
mountain  indicates  a belief  in  the  sanctity  of  Iiermon 
itself.  This  inference  is  supported  by  a passage  in  the 
treaty  of  Rameses  II  with  the  Ilittites  of  Syria,  in 
which,  besides  gods  and  goddesses,  the  mountains  and 
the  rivers,  both  of  the  land  of  the  Ilittites  and  of  Egypt, 
and  the  winds,  are  mentioned,  in  a list  of  Hittite  and 
Egyptian  divinities.  The  Egyptian  divinities  are  spo- 
ken of  from  a Hittite  point  of  view,  for  the  expression 
“ the  mountains  and  the  rivers  of  the  land  of  Egypt”  is 
only  half  applicable  to  the  Egyptian  nature-worship, 
which  had,  in  Egypt  at  least,  but  one  sacred  river  (Lep- 
sius,  Denhnaler,  iii,  146;  Brugsch,  Ccograjdiische  In- 
schriflen , ii,  29;  De  Rouge,  in  Per.  Arch,  lionv.  ser.  iv, 
372).  See  Hittite.  That  Hermon  was  worshipped  in 
connection  with  Baal  is  probable  from  the  name  Mount 
Baal-IIermon  (Judg.  iii,  3),  Baal-IIemion  (1  Chroii.  v, 
23)  being  apparently  given  to  it,  Baal  being,  as  the 
Egyptian  monuments  indicate,  the  chief  god  of  the  Ilit- 
tites. That  there  was  such  a belief  in  the  sanctity  of 
mountains  and  hills  seems  evident  from  the  great  num- 
ber of  high  places  of  the  old  mhabitants,  which  is  clear- 
ly indicated  in  the  prohibition  of  their  worship  as  com- 
pared with  the  statement  of  the  disobedience  of  the 
Israelites.  See  IIill. 

The  injunctions,  however,  respecting  the  high  places 
and  groves  were  very  imperfectly  obeyed  by  the  Israel- 
ites; and  their  inveterate  attachment  to  this  mode  of 
worship  -was  such  that  even  pious  kings,  who  opposed 
idolatry  by  all  the  means  in  their  power,  dared  not  abol- 
ish the  high  places  at  which  the  Lord  was  worshipped. 
It  appears  likely  that  this  toleration  of  an  acknowledged 
irregularity  arose  from  the  indisposition  of  the  people 
living  at  a distance  from  the  Temple  to  he  confined  to 
the  altar  which  existed  there ; to  their  determination 
! to  have  places  nearer  home  for  the  chief  acts  of  their 
religion — sacrifice  and  offering;  and  to  the  apprehension 
of  the  kings  that  if  they  were  prevented  from  having 
places  for  offerings  to  the  Lord  in  their  own  neighbor- 
hood they  would  make  the  offerings  to  idols.  More- 
over, the  Mosaic  command  was  a prospective  one,  aud 
was  not  to  come  into  force  until  such  times  as  the  tribes 
were  settled  in  the  Promised  Land,  and  “ had  rest  from 
all  their  enemies  round  about.”  Thus  we  find  that  both 
Gideon  and  3 la  no  ah  built  altars  on  high  places  by  di- 
vine command  (Judg.  vi,  25,  26;  xiii.  16-23),  and  it  is 
quite  clear  from  the  tone  of  the  book  of  Judges  that  the 
law  on  the  subject  was  either  totally  forgotten  or  prac- 
tically obsolete.  Nor  could  the  unsettled  state  of  the 
country  have  been  pleaded  as  an  excuse,  since  it  seems 
to  have  been  most  fully  understood,  even  during  the 
life  of  Joshua,  that  burnt-offerings  could  be  legally  of- 


HIGH  PLACE 


240 


HIGH  PLACE 


fered  on  one  altar  only  (Josh,  xxii,  29).  It  is  more  sur- 
prising to  find  this  law  absolutely  ignored  at  a much 
later  period,  when  there  was  no  intelligible  reason  for 
its  violation — as  by  Samuel  at  Mizpeli  (1  Sam.  vii,  10) 
and  at  Bethlehem  "(xvi,  5) ; by  Saul  at  Gilgal  (xiii,  9) 
and  at  Ajalon  (?xiv,  35);  by  David  on  the  threshing- 
floor  of  Oman  (1  Chron.  xxi,  26) ; by  Elijah  on  Mount 
Carmel  (1  Kings  xviii,  30) ; and  by  other  prophets  (1 
Sam.  x,  5).  It  will,  however,  be  observed  that  in  these 
cases  the  parties  either  acted  under  an  immediate  com- 
mand from  God,  or  were  invested  with  a general  com- 
mission of  similar  force  with  reference  to  such  transac- 
tions. It  has  also  been  suggested  that  greater  latitude 
was  allowed  in  this  point  before  the  erection  of  the 
Temple  gave  to  the  ritual  principles  of  the  ceremonial 
law  a fixity  which  they  had  not  previously  possessed. 
This  is  possible,  for  it  is  certain  that  all  the  authorized 
examples  occur  before  it  was  built,  excepting  that  of 
Elijah ; and  that  occurred  under  circumstances  in  which 
the  sacrifices  coidd  not  possibly  have  taken  place  at  Je- 
rusalem, and  in  a kingdom  where  no  authorized  altar  to 
Jehovah  then  existed.  The  liabbins  have  invented  elab- 
orate methods  to  account  for  the  anomaly : thus  they 
say  that  high  places  Avere  alloAved  until  the  building  of 
the  tabernacle ; that  they  were  then  illegal  until  the  ar- 
rival  at  Gilgal,  and  then  during  the  period  Avhile  the 
tabernacle  Avas  at  Shiloh;  that  they  Avere  once  more 
permitted  Avliile  it  Avas  at  Nob  and  Gibeon  (compare  2 
Chron.  i,  3),  until  the  building  of  the  Temple  at  Jeru- 
salem rendered  them  finally  unlaAvful  (II.  Sol.  Jarchi, 
Abarbanel,  etc.,  quoted  in  Carpzov,  App.  Crit.  p.  333  sq. ; 
Belaud,  Ant.  Heir.  i,  8 sq.).  Others  content  themselves 
Avith  saying  that  until  Solomon’s  time  all  Palestine  Avas 
considered  holy  ground,  or  that  there  existed  a recog- 
nised exemption  in  favor  of  high  places  for  priArate  and 
spontaneous,  though  not  for  the  stated  and  public  sacri- 
fices. Such  explanations  are  sufficiently  unsatisfactory; 
but  it  is  at  any  rate  certain  that,  AA'hether  from  the  ob- 
A'ious  temptations  to  disobedience,  or  from  the  exam- 
ple of  other  nations,  or  from  ignorance  of  any  definite 
Iuav  against  it,  the  Avorship  in  high  places  Avas  organized 
and  all  but  universal  throughout  Judaea,  not  only  during 
(1  Kings  iii,  2-4),  but  even  after  the  time  of  Solomon. 
The  convenience  of  them  AAras  evident,  because,  as  local 
centres  of  religious  Avorship,  they  obviated  the  unpleas- 
ant and  dangerous  necessity  of  visiting  Jerusalem  for 
the  celebration  of  the  yearly  feasts  (2  Kings  xxiii,  9). 
The  tendency  Avas  engrained  in  the  national  mind ; and, 
although  it  Avas  seArerely  reprehended  by  the  later  his- 
torians, Ave  haA'e  no  proof  that  it  Avas  knoAvn  to  be  sinful 
during  the  earlier  periods  of  the  monarchy,  except,  of 
course,  where  it  was  directly  connected  Avitli  idolatrous 
abominations  (1  Kings  xi,  7 ; 2 Kings  xxiii,  13).  In 
fact,  the  high  places  seem  to  liaAre  supplied  the  need  of 
synagogues  (Psa.  lxxiv,  8),  and  to  have  obA’iated  the 
extreme  self-denial  involved  in  having  but  one  legalized 
locality  for  the  highest  forms  of  Avorship.  Thus  Ave  find 
that  Behoboam  established  a definite.  Avorship  at  the 
high  places,  Avith  its  oAvn  peculiar  and  separate  priest- 
hood (2  Chron.  xi,  15;  2 Kings  xxiii,  9),  the  members 
of  Avhich  Avere  still  considered  to  be  priests  of  Jehovah 
(although  in  2 Kings  xxiii,  5 they  are  called  by  the  op- 
probrious term  -?)•  If  ""'as  therefore  no  Avonder 
that  Jeroboam  found  it  so  easy  to  seduce  the  people  into 
his  symbolic  Avorship  at  the  high  places  of  Dan  and 
Bethel,  at  each  of  Avhich  he  built  a chapel  for  his  golden 
cah'es.  Such  chapels  Avere,  of  course,  frequently  added 
to  the  mere  altars  on  the  hills,  as  appears  from  the  ex- 
pressions in  1 Kings  xi,  7 ; 2 Kings  xvii,  9,  etc.  Indeed, 
the  word  p’V£3  became  so  common  that  it  Avas  used  for 
any  idolatrous  shrine  even  in  a valley  (Jer.  vii,  31),  or 
in  the  streets  of  cities  (2  Kings  xvii,  9;  Ezek.  xAn,31). 
These  chapels  were  probably  not  structures  of  stone,  but 
mere  tabernacles  hmig  with  colored  tapestry  (Ezek.  xvi, 
16;  Aqu.,  Theod.  tfi[36\iapa ; see  Jer.  ad  loc. ; Sept. 
ttduikov  paiTTov),  like  the  OKijvrj  itpa.  of  the  Carthagin- 


ians (Diod.  Sic.  xx,  65;  Creuzer,  Symbol,  v,  176),  and 
like  those  mentioned  in  2 Kings  xxiii,  7 ; Amos  a',  26. 
Many  of  the  pious  kings  of  Judah  were  either  too  Aveak 
or  too  ill-informed  to  repress  the  Avorship  of  JehoA'ah  at 
these  local  sanctuaries,  Avliile  they  of  course  endeavored 
to  prevent  it  from  being  contaminated  Avith  polytheism. 
It  is  therefore  appended  as  a matter  of  blame  or  a (per- 
haps A'enial)  draAvback  to  the  character  of  some  of  the 
most  pious  princes,  that  they  tolerated  this  disobedience 
to  the  provisions  of  Deuteronomy  and  Leviticus.  On 
the  other  hand,  it  is  mentioned  as  an  aggraA'ation  of  the 
sinfulness  of  other  kings  that  they  built  or  raised  high 
places  (2  Chron.  xxi,  11;  xxviii,  25),  which  are  gener- 
ally said  to  haA'e  been  dedicated  to  idolatrous  purposes. 
It  is  almost  inconceivable  that  so  direct  a violation 
of  the  theocratic  principle  as  the  public  existence  of 
false  AA'orsliip  should  liaA'e  been  tolerated  . by  kings  of 
even  ordinary  piety,  much  less  by  the  highest  sacerdo- 
tal authorities  (2  Kings  xii,  3).  When,  therefore,  we 
find  the  recurring  phrase,  “Only  the  high  places  Avere 
not  taken  aAvay ; as  yet  the  people  did  sacrifice  and  bum 
incense  on  the  high  places”  (2  Kings  xhr,  4;  XAr,  5,  35; 
2 Chron.  xv,  17,  etc.),  Ave  are  forced  to  limit  it  (as  aboA'e) 
to  places  dedicated  to  Jehovah  only.  The  subject,  Iioav- 
ever,  is  made  more  difficult  by  a seeming  discrepancy,  for 
the  assertion  that  Asa  “ took  away  the  high  places”  (2 
Chron.  xiv,  3)  is  opposite  to  what  is  stated  in  the  first 
book  of  Kings  (xv,  14),  and  a similar  discrepancy  is 
found  in  the  case  of  Jehoshaphat  (2  Chron.  x\’ii,  6 ; xx, 
33).  Moreover,  in  both  instances  the  chronicler  is  ap- 
parently at  issue  Avith  himself  (xiv,  3 ; xv,  17 ; xvii,  6; 
xx,  33).  It  is  incredible  that  this  should  haA'e  been 
the  result  of  carelessness  or  oversight,  and  Ave  must 
therefore  suppose,  either  that  the  earlier  notices  ex- 
pressed the  Avill  and  endeaA'or  of  these  monarchs  to  re- 
move the  high  places,  and  that  the  later  ones  recorded 
their  failure  in  the  attempt  (EAvald,  Gesch.  iii,  468 ; Keil, 
Apolog.  Yersuch.  p.  290),  or  that  the  statements  refer 
respecth'cly  to  Bamoth  dedicated  to  JehoA'ah  and  to 
idols  (Micliaelis,  Schulz,  Bertheau  on  2 Chron.  xvii,  6, 
etc.).  “Those  devoted  to  false  gods  Avere  remoA'ed, 
those  misdeA'oted  to  the  true  God  Avere  suffered  to  re- 
main. The  kings  opposed  impiety,  but  Avinked  at  er- 
ror” (bishop  Ilall).  At  last  Ilezekiah  set  himself  in 
good  earnest  to  the  suppression  of  this  preA'alent  cor- 
ruption (2  Kings  xA'iii,  4,  22),  both  in  Judah  and  Israel 
(2  Chron.  xxxi,  1),  although,  so  rapid  was  the  groAvth 
of  the  evil,  that  even  his  SAveeping  reformation  required 
to  be  finally  consummated  by  Josiah  (2  Kings  xxiii), 
and  that,  too,  in  Jerusalem  and  its  immediate  neighbor- 
hood (2  Chron.  xxxiv,  3).  The  measure  must  have 
caused  a A'cry  violent  shock  to  the  religious  prejudices 
of  a large  number  of  people,  and  Ave  haA'e  a curious  and 
almost  unnoticed  trace  of  this  resentment  in  the  fact 
that  liabshakeh  appeals  to  the  discontented  faction,  and 
represents  Hezekiah  as  a dangerous  innoA'ator  Avho  had 
provoked  God’s  anger  by  his  arbitrary  impiety  (2  Kings 
XA'iii,  22;  2 Chron.  xxxii,  12).  After  the  time  of  Josi- 
ah we  find  no  further  mention  of  these  JehoA'istic  high 
places. 

As  long  as  the  nations  continued  to  worship  the 
heavenly  bodies  themselves,  they  Avorshipped  in  the 
open  air,  holding  that  no  Avails  could  contain  infinitude. 
Afterwards,  Avhen  the  symbol  of  fire  or  of  images  brought 
in  the  use  of  temples,  they  Avere  usually  built  in  groves 
and  upon  high  places,  and  sometimes  Avithout  roofs. 
The  principle  on  Avhich  high  places  were  preferred  is 
said  to  haA'e  been  that  they  Avere  nearer  to  the  gods, 
and  that  on  them  prayer  Avas  more  acceptable  than  in 
the  valleys  (Lucian,  De  Sacrif.  i,  4).  See  Hill.  The 
ancient  AATiters  abound  in  allusions  to  this  Avorship  of 
the  gods  upon  the  hill-tops ; and  some  of  their  divini- 
ties took  their  distinctive  names  from  the  hill  on  which 
their  principal  seat  of  Avorship  stood,  such  as  Mercurius 
Cyllenius,  Venus  Erycina,  Jupiter  Capitolinus,  etc.  (see 
especially  Sophocles,  Trachin.  1207,  1208;  Appian,  De 
Bello  Mithrid.  § 131;  compare  Creuzer,  Symbol,  i,  150). 


HIGH  PLACE 


241 


HIGII-PRIEST 


to  be  made  and  built  i.i 
every  si  root,  at  the  head 
of  every  way  (Ezek.  xvi. 
24,  25),  in  all  their  cities 
(2  Kings  xvii,  9),  and 
upon  every  high  hill,  ai.d 
under  every  green  tree  ( 1 
Kings  xiv,  23).  It  could 
be  torn  to  pieces,  beat- 
en small  rs  dust,  and 
burnt  up  (2  Kings  xxiii. 
15).  Thus  it  [often] 
was  of  combustible  ma- 
terials  These 

mounds,  with  their  al- 
tars, were  built  in  the 
streets,  where  people 
could  assemble  around 
them.  When  on  the 
hills  out  of  the  city  they 
lasted  many  years:  for 
the  mounds  built  by 
Solomon  on  the  right 
hand  or  south  side  of 
the  Mount  of  Destruc- 
tion before  Jerusalem 

Temple  on  a hill  surrounded  by  trees,  and  having  an  Altar  in  the  approach  to  it.  Avia-  were  destroyed  by  Jo- 
duct,  streams  of  water,  etc.,  are  represented.  (Bas-relief  from  Kouynnjik  in  the  British  siah  (2  Kings  xxiii,  13  , 
Museum.)  1 Kings  xi,  7),  nearly 

We ‘find  that  the  Trojans  sacrificed  to  Zeus  on  Mount  four  hundred  years  after  they  were  built.  But  mounds 
Ida  (11.  x,  171),  and  we  are  repeatedly  told  that  such  of  earth  no  larger  than  Indian-com  or  potato-hills  will 
was  the  custom  of  the  Persians,  Greeks,  Germans,  etc.  last  a great  number  of  years,  and  those  somewhat 
(llerod.  i,  131 ; Xenoph.  Cyrop.  viii,  7 ; Mem.  iii,  8,  § 10 ; larger  for  centuries  (compare  the  Indian  mounds  in 
Strabo,  xv,  732).  To  this  general  custom  we  find  eon-  the  West).  That  the  mounds  destroyed  by  Josiah  had 
stant  allusion  in  the  Bible  (Isa.  lxv,  7 ; Jer.  iii,  6;  Ezek.  lasted  so  many  centuries  is  a proof  that  they  were  not 
vi,  13;  xviii,  G;  IIos.  iv,  13),  and  it  is  especially  attrib-  wholly  of  wood;  that  they  could  be  burnt  is  a proof 
uted  to  the  Moabites  (Isa.  xv,  2;  xvi,  12;  Jer.  xlviii,  that  they  were  not  wholly  of  stone;  that  they  could  be 
35).  Evident  traces  of  a similar  usage  are  depicted  on  beaten  to  dust  indicates  that  they  were  made  of  any- 
the  Assyrian  monuments.  The  groves  which  ancient  thing  that  came  readiest  to  hand,  as  earth,  soil,  etc.  For 
usage  had  established  around  the  places  of  sacrifice  for  the  houses  of  the  mounds,  or  high  places,  in  which  were 
the  sake  of  shade  and  seclusion,  idolatry  preserved,  not  images  of  their  gods,  see  2 Kings  xvii,  29;  priests  of 
only  for  the  same  reasons,  but  because  they  were  found  these  places  of  worship,  1 Kings  xii,  32;  xiii,  2,33:  2 


convenient  for  the  celebration  of  the  rites  and  mysteries, 
often  obscene  and  abominable,  which  were  gradually 
snperadded.  According  to  Pliny  (book  xii),  trees  were 
also  anciently  consecrated  to  particular  divinities,  as 
the  esculus  to  Jove,  the  laurel  to  Apollo,  the  olive  to 
Minerva,  the  myrtle  to  Venus,  the  poplar  to  Hercules. 


Kings  xvii,  32 ; xxiii,  9,  20 ; beds  for  fornication  and 
adultery,  in  the  tents  about  the  mounds,  Isa.  lvii,  3-7; 
Ezek.  xvi,  1G,  25,  etc.  Some  of  these  houses  were  tents, 
for  women  wove  them  (2  Kings  xxiii, 7).  The  people — 
men,  women,  children,  and  priests — assembled  in  groves, 
on  hills  and  mountains,  or  in  the  streets  of  their  cities; 


It  was  also  believed  that  as  the  heavens  have  their  threw  up  a mound,  on  which  they  built  their  altar:  set 
proper  and  peculiar  deities,  so  also  the  woods  have  up  the  wooden  idol  [Asherah]  before  the  altar ; pitched 
theirs,  being  the  Fauns,  the  Svlvans,  and  certain  god-  their  tents  around  it  under  the  trees;  sacrificed  their 
desses.  To  this  it  may  be  added  that  groves  were  en-  sons  and  daughters,  sometimes  on  the  altar  (Ezek.  xvi, 
joined  by  the  I toman  law  of  the  Twelve  Tables  as  part  20),  and  committed  fornication  and  adultery  in  the  tents, 
of  the  public  religion.  Plutarch  (Xuvui,  i,  61)  calls  such  where  also  they  had  the  images  of  their  gods.” 
groves  a\(Tt]  9eo>v,  “groves  of  the  gods,”  which  he  says 
Nnma  frequented,  and  thereby  gave  rise  to  the  story  of 
his  intercourse  with  the  goddess  Egeria.  In  fact,  a de- 
gree of  worship  was,  as  Pliny  states,  transferred  to  the 
trees  themselves.  They  were  sometimes  decked  with 
ribbons  and  rich  cloths,  lamps  were  placed  on  them,  the 
spoils  of  enemies  were  hung  from  them,  vows  were  paid 
to  them,  and  their  branches  were  encumbered  with  vo- 
tive offerings.  Traces  of  this  arborolatry  still  exist  ev- 
erywhere, both  in  Moslem  and  Christian  countries ; and 
even  the  Persians,  who  abhorred  images  as  much  as  the 
Hebrews  ever  did,  rendered  homage  to  certain  trees. 

The  story  is  well  known  of  the  noble  plane-tree  near 
Sardis,  before  which  Xerxes  halted  his  army  a whole 
day  while  he  rendered  homage  to  it,  and  hung  royal  of- 
ferings upon  its  branches  (Herod,  vi,  31).  There  is  much 
curious  literature  connected  with  this  subject  which  we 
leave  untouched,  but  the  reader  may  consult  Sir  W. 

Ouselev’s  learned  dissertation  on  Sacred  Trees,  append- 
ed to  the  first  volume  of  his  Travels  in  the  East.— Kitto, 

; Smith,  s.  v.  See  Idolatry. 

Mr.  Paine  remarks 
p. 21), “The  ‘high  place, 

IV.-Q 


Representation  of  an  idolatrous  “Iligh  place,’’  with  its 
“Grove,”  altar,  and  worshippers.  (From  Paine's  Tem- 
ple of  Solomon.) 

High-priest  (‘Cirri,  hak-lvken the  ordinary  word 
for  “priest,”  with  the  article,  i.  e.  “the  priest;”  and  in 
the  books  subsequent  to  the  Pentateuch  with  the  fre- 
(Solomon's  Temple,  etc.,  Dost.  1861,  | qnent  addition  the  great,  and  ‘ the  heads- 

et,' !TC2,  mound,  was  small  enough  Lev.  xxi,  10  seems  to  exhibit  the  epithet  -”5  [as 


HIGH-PRIEST 


242 


HIGH-PRIEST 


kottoq  and  hctKoroQ  in  the  N.  T.]  ki  a transition  state, 
not  yet  wholly  technical ; and  the  same  may  be  said  of 
Numb,  xxxv,  25,  where  the  explanation  at  the  end  of 
the  verse,  “which  was  anointed  with  the  holy  oil,”  seems 
to  show  that  the  epithet  was  not  yet  quite  estab- 
lished as  distinctive  of  the  chief  priest  [comp.  ver.  28]. 
In  all  other  passages  of  the  Pentateuch  it  is  simply  “the 
priest,”  Exod.  xxix,  30,  44;  Lev.  xvi,  32  ; or  yet  more 
frequently  “Aaron,”  or  “Aaron  the  priest,”  as  Numb,  iii, 
(5;  iv,  33-  Lev.  i,  7,  etc.  So,  too,  “ Eleazar  the  priest,” 
Numb,  x.wii,  22;  xxxi,  2G,  29,  31,  etc.  In  fact,  there 
could  he  no  such  distinction  in  the  time  of  Moses,  since 
the  priesthood  was  limited  to  Aaron  and  his  sons.  In 
the  Sept.  6 apxitptvg,  or  itptuQ,  where  the  Ileb.  has  only 
■jns.  So  likewise  in  the  N.  T.  dpxaptvQ,  often  merely 
a “ chief  priest.”  Vulgate,  Sacerdos  magnus , or  primus 
pontifex,  princeps  sacerdotum),  the  head  of  the  Jewish 
hierarchy,  and  a lineal  descendant  of  Aaron. 

I.  The  legal  view  of  the  high-priest’s  office  comprises 
all  that  the  law  of  Moses  ordained  respecting  it.  The 
first  distinct  separation  of  Aaron  to  the  office  of  the 
priesthood,  which  previously  belonged  to  the  firstborn, 
was  that  recorded  in  Exod.  xxviii.  A partial  anticipa- 
tion of  this  call  occurred  at  the  gathering  of  the  manna 
(Exod.  xvi),  when  Moses  bade  Aaron  take  a pot  of  man- 
na, and  lay  it  up  before  the  Lord : which  implied  that 
the  ark  of  the  Testimony  would  thereafter  be  under  Aa- 
ron’s charge,  though  it  was  not  at  that  time  in  exist- 
ence. The  taking  up  of  Nadab  and  Abihu  with  their 
father  Aaron  to  the  INI ount,  where  they  beheld  the  glory 
of  the  God  of  Israel,  seems  also  to  have  been  intended 
as  a preparatory  intimation  of  Aaron’s  hereditary  priest- 
hood. See  also  Exod.  xxvii,  21.  But  it  was  not  till  the 
completion  of  the  directions  for  making  the  tabernacle 
and  its  furniture  that  the  distinct  order  was  given  to 
Moses,  “Take  thou  unto  thee  Aaron  thy  brother,  and 
liis  sons  with  him,  from  among  the  children  of  Israel, 
that  he  may  minister  unto  me  in  the  priest's  office,  even 
Aaron,  Nadab  and  Abihu,  Eleazar  and  Ithainar,  Aaron’s 
sons”  (Exod.  xxviii,  1).  So  after  the  order  for  the 
priestly  garments  to  be  made  “ for  Aaron  and  his  sons,” 
it  is  added,  “and  the  priest’s  office  shall  be  theirs  for  a 
perpetual  statute ; and  thou  shalt  consecrate  Aaron  and 
his  sons,”  and  “I  will  sanctify  both  Aaron  and  his  sons 
to  minister  to  me  in  the  priest’s  office,”  xxix,  9, 44. 

We  find  from  the  very  first  the  following  character- 
istic attributes  of  Aaron  and  the  high-priests  his  suc- 
cessors, as  distinguished  from  the  other  priests. 

1.  Aaron  alone  vras  anointed.  “ He  poured  of  the 
anointing  oil  upon  Aaron’s  head,  and  anointed  him  to 
sanctify  him”  (Lev.  viii,  12) : whence  one  of  the  distinc- 
tive epithets  of  the  high-priest  was  ’j\}2n,“the 

anointed  priest”  (Lev.  iv,  3,  5,  1G;  xxi,  10;  see  Numb, 
xxxv,  25).  This  appears  also  from  Exod.  xxix,  29, 30, 
where  it  is  ordered  that  the  one  of  the  sons  of  Aaron 
who  succeeds  him  in  the  priest’s  office  shall  wear  the 
holy  garments  that  were  Aaron’s  for  seven  days,  to  lie 
anointed  therein,  and  to  be  consecrated  in  them.  Hence 
Eusebius  (Hist.  Eccles.  i,  G;  Dem.  Evang.  x iii)  under- 
stands the  Anointed  (A.  V.  “Messiah,”  or,  as  the  Sept, 
roads,  your/xo)  in  Dan.  ix,  2G,  the  anointing  of  the  Jew- 
ish high-priests:  “It  means  nothing  else  than  the  suc- 
cession of  high-priests,  whom  the  Scripture  commonly 
calls  yptorooc,  anointed;”  and  so,  too,  Tcrtullian  and 
Theodoret  (Rosenm.  ad  loc.)  The  anointing  of  the  sons 
of  Aaron,  i.  e.  the  common  priests,  seems  to  have  been 
confined  to  sprinkling  their  garments  with  the  anoint- 
ing oil  (Exod.  xxix,  21 ; xxviii,  41,  etc.),  though,  accord- 
ing to  Kalisch  on  Exod.  xxix,  8,  and  Lightfoot,  follow- 
ing the  Rabbinical  interpretation,  the  difference  consists 
in  the  abundant  pouring  of  oil  (pS^1)  on  the  head  of  the 
high-priest,  from  whence  it  was  drawn  with  the  finger 
into  two  streams,  in  the  shape  of  a Greek  X,  while  the 
priests  were  merely  marked  with  the  finger  dipped  in 
sil  on  the  forehead  (irj'E).  But  this  is  probably  a late 


invention  of  the  Rabbins.  The  anointing  of  the  high- 
priest  is  alluded  to  in  Psa.  cxxxiii,  2,  “It  is  like  the 
precious  ointment  upon  the  head,  that  ran  down  upon 
the  beard,  even  Aaron’s  beard,  that  went  down  to  the 
skirts  of  his  garments.”  The  composition  of  this  anoint- 
ing oil,  consisting  of  myrrh,  cinnamon,  calamus,  cassia, 
and  olive  oil,  is  prescribed  Exod.  xxx,  22-25 ; and  its  use 
for  any  other  purpose  but  that  of  anointing  the  priests, 
the  tabernacle,  and  the  vessels,  was  strictly  prohibited, 
on  pain  of  being  “ cut  off  from  his  people.”  The  manu- 
facture of  it  was  intrusted  to  certain  priests,  called  apoth- 
ecaries (Neh.  iii,  8).  But  this  oil  is  said  to  have  been 
wanting  under  the  second  Temple  (Prideaux,  i,  151 ; 
Selden,  cap.  ix).  See  Anointing  Oil. 

2.  The  high-priest  had  a peculiar  dress,  which,  as  we 
have  seen,  passed  to  his  successor  at  his  death.  This 
dress  consisted  of  eight  parts,  as  the  Rabbins  constantly 
note,  the  breastplate,  the  ephod  with  its  curious  girdle, 
the  robe  of  the  ephod,  the  mitre,  the  broidered  coat  or 
diaper  tunic,  and  the  girdle,  the  materials  being  gold, 
blue,  red,  crimson,  and  fine  (white)  linen  (Exod.  xxviii). 
To  the  above  arc  added,  in  ver.  42,  the  breeches  or  draw- 
ers (Lev.  xvi,  4)  of  linen;  and  to  make  up  the  number 
eight,  some  reckon  the  high-priest’s  mitre,  or  the  plate 
(“p^jj)  separately  from  the  bonnet;  while  others  reckon 
the  curious  girdle  of  the  ephod  separately  from  the 
ephod.  In  Lev.  viii,  7-12,  there  is  a complete  account 
of  the  putting  on  of  these  garments  by  Aaron,  and  the 
whole  ceremony  of  his  consecration  and  that  of  his  sons. 
It  there  appears  distinctly  that, besides  the  girdle  com- 
mon to  all  the  priests,  the  higli-priest  also  wore  the  cu- 
rious girdle  of  the  ephod.  Of  these  eight  articles  of  at- 
tire, four,  viz.  the  coat  or  tunic,  the  girdle,  the  breeches, 
and  the  bonnet  or  turban,  instead  of  the  mitre, 

rSSS'S  (Josephus,  however,  whom  Biihr  follows,  calls 
the  bonnets  of  the  priests  by  the  name  of  See 

below),  belonged  to  the  common  priests.  It  is  Avell 
known  how,  in  the  Assyrian  sculptures,  the  king  is  in 
like  maimer  distinguished  by  the  shape  of  his  head- 
dress; and  how  in  Persia  none  but  the  king  wore  the 
ddaris , or  erect  tiara.  Biihr  compares  also  the  apices 
of  the  flamen  Dialis.  Josephus  speaks  of  the  robes  (iv- 
cvpara')  of  the  chief  priests,  and  the  tunics  and  girdles 
of  the  priests,  as  forming  part  of  the  spoil  of  the  Temple 
( ir«r,  vi,8, 3).  Aaron,  and  at  his  death  Eleazar  (Numb, 
xx,  2G,  28),  and  their  successors  in  the  high-priesthood, 
were  solemnly  inaugurated  into  their  office  by  being 
clad  in  these  eight  articles  of  dress  on  seven  successive 
days.  From  the  time  of  the  second  Temple,  when  the 
sacred  oil  (said  to  have  been  hid  by  Josiah,  and  lost)  was 
wanting,  this  putting  on  of  the  garments  was  deemed 
the  official  investiture  of  the  office.  Hence  the  robes, 
which  had  used  to  be  kept  in  one  of  the  chambers  of 
the  Temple,  and  were  by  Ilyrcanus  deposited  in  the  Ba- 
ris, which  he  built  on  purpose,  were  kept  by  1 Icrod  in 
the  same  tower,  which  he  called  Antonia,  so  that  they 
might  be  at  his  absolute  disposal.  The  Romans  did  the 
same  till  the  government  of  Vitellius,  in  the  reign  of  Ti- 
berius, when  the  custody  of  the  robes  was  restored  to 
the  Jews  (.4  nt.  xv,  11,4;  x viii, 4,  3). — Smith,  s.  v.  Tak- 
ing the  articles  of  the  high-pricst’s  dress  in  the  order  in 
which  they  would  naturally  be  put  on,  we  have 

(1.)  The  “breeches”  or  drawers,  miknesim', 

of  linen,  covering  the  loins  and  thighs,  for  purposes  of 
modesty,  as  all  the  upper  garments  were  loose  and  flow- 
ing. Their  probable  form  is  illustrated  by  the  subjoined 
cut,  from  Braun  (De  Vest  if  u Hucerdotum  Hebrceorum , p. 
3G4),who  calls  attention  to  the  bands  (Talmud,  C^LSJ’J) 
for  drawing  the  top  together,  and  the  absence  of  any 
opening  either  before  (TP  I?  PI  r"3,  apertura  ad  pu- 
denda') or  behind  (-pin  "">3,  apertura  ad  anum ). 

(2.)  The  inner  “coat,”  PSPipj  kutto'neth,  was  a tunic 
or  long  shirt  of  linen,  with  a tesselated  or  diaper  pat- 
tern, like  the  setting  of  a stone  (”313!?,  tashbets',  “broi- 


IIIGII-PPJEST 


243 


HIGII-PRIEST 


dcrcd”).  The  subjoined  cut  (also  from  Braun,  p.  378) 
will  illustrate  its  probable  form  (not  different  from  that 
of  the  ordinary  Oriental  under-garment),  with  its  sleeves 
and  mode  of  fastening  around  the  neck.  See  Coat. 


Broidcred  Coat”  of  Linen  worn  by  the  Priests. 


(3.)  The  girdle,  1:33  X,  abnei',  also  of  linen,  was  wound 
round  the  body  several  times  from  the  breast  down- 
wards, and  the  ends  hung  down  to  the  ankles.  Its  form 
and  mode  of  wearing  may  be  illustrated  by  the  subjoin- 
ed cuts  (from  Braun,  p.  404).  See  Girdle. 

(4.)  The  “ robe,"  b'V'2,meil',  of  the  ephod.  This  was 
of  inferior  material  to  the  ephod  itself,  being  all  of  blue 
(ver.  31),  which  implied  its  being  only  of  “ woven  work” 
(51)X  xxxix,  22).  It  was  worn  immediately 

under  the  ephod,  and  was  longer  than  it,  though  not  so 
long  as  the  broidered  coat  or  tunic  (j’SbPl  r:r,S),  ac- 


The  Linen  Girdle  of  the  Priests. 


cording  to  most  statements  (Biihr,  Winer,  Kalisch,  etc.). 
Nor  do  the  Sept,  explanation  of  7rolijpi)c,  and 

Josephus’s  description  of  it  ( War,  v,  b,  7),  seem  to  out- 
weigh the  reasons  given  by  Biihr  for  thinking  that  the 
robe  only  came  down  to  the  knees,  for  it  is  highly  im- 
probable that  the  robe  should  thus  have  swept  the  ground. 
Neither  does  it  seem  likely  that  the  sleeves  of  the  tunic, 
of  white  diaper  linen,  were  the  only  parts  of  it  which 
were  visible,  in  the  case  of  the  high-priest,  when  he 
wore  the  blue  robe  over  it;  for  the  blue  robe  had  no 
sleeves,  but  only  slits  in  the  sides  for  the  arms  to  come 
through.  It  had  a hole  for  the  head  to  pass  through, 
with  a border  round  it  of  woven  work,  to  prevent  its  be- 
ing rent.  The  skirt  of  this  robe  had  a remarkable  trim- 
ming of  pomegranates  in  blue,  red,  and  crimson,  with  a 
bell  of  gold  between  each  pomegranate  alternately.  The 
bells  were  to  give  a sound  when. the  high-priest  went  in 
and  came  out  of  the  Holy  Place.  Josephus,  in  the  An- 
tiquities, gives  no  explanation  of  the  use  of  the  bells,  but 
merely  speaks  of  the  studied  beauty  of  their  appearance. 
In  his  Jewish  War,  however,  he  tells  us  that  the  bells 
signified  thunder,  and  the  pomegranates  lightning.  For 
Philo’s  very  curious  observations,  sec  Lightfoot’s  Works, 
ix,  25.  Neither  does  the  son  of  Siraeh  very  distinctly 
explain  it  (Ecclus.  xlv).  who,  in  his  description  of  the 
high-priest’s  attire,  seems  cliicfly  impressed  with  its 
beauty  and  magnificence,  and  says  of  this  trimming, 


HIGH-PRIEST 


244 


HIGH-PRIEST 


The  High-priest’s  Kobe.  (From  Braun,  tit  sup.  p.  460.) 


“ He  compassed  him  with  pomegranates  and  with  many- 
golden  bells  round  about,  that  as  he  went  there  might 
be  a sotmd,  and  a noise  made  that  might  be  heard  in 
the  Temple,  for  a memorial  to  the  children  of  his  peo-' 
pie.”  Perhaps,  however,  he  means  to  intimate  that  the 
use  of  the  bells  was  to  give  notice  to  the  people  outside 
when  the  higli-priest  went  in  and  came  out  of  the  sanc- 
tuary, as  Whiston,  Vatablus,  and  many  others  have  sup- 
posed. See  Kobe. 

(5.)  The  ephod,  'jlSX,  consisted  of  two  parts,  of  which 
one  covered  the  back,  and  the  other  the  front,  i.  e.  the 
breast  and  upper  part  of  the  body,  like  the  tTriopig  of 
the  Greeks  (see  Smith,  Diet,  of  Antiquities,  s.  v.  Tunica). 
These  were  clasped  together  on  the  shoidder  with  two 
large  onyx  stones,  each  having  engraved  on  it  six  of  the 
names  of  the  tribes  of  Israel.  It  was  further  united  by 
a “ curious  girdle”  of  gold,  blue,  purple,  scarlet,  and  fine 
twined  linen  round  the  waist.  Upon  it  was  placed  the 
breastplate  of  judgment,  which  in  fact  was  a part  of  the 
ephod,  being  included  in  the  term  in  such  passages  as  1 
Sam.  ii,  28 ; xiv,  3 ; xxiii,  9,  and  was  fastened  to  it  just 
above  the  curious  girdle  of  the  ephod.  Linen  ephods 
were  also  worn  by  other  priests  (1  Sam.  xxii,  18),  by 
Samuel,  who  was  only  a Levite  (1  Sam.  ii,  18),  and  by 
David  when  bringing  up  the  ark  (2  Sam.  vi,  14).  The 
expression  for  wearing  an  ephod  is girded  with  a linen 
ephod.”  The  ephod  was  also  frequently  used  in  the 
idolatrous  worship  of  the  Israelites  (see  Judg.  viii,  27 ; 
xvii,  5,  etc.).  See  Ephod. 

(6.)  The  breastplate,  yin,  cho'shen,  or,  as  it  is  further 
named,  verses  15,  29,  30,  the  breastplate  of  judgment, 
US  IT  *3  yrnn,  \oytlov  tu>v  Kpioewv  (or  rije  Kpiaetoo)  in 
the  Sept.,  only  in  ver.  4 mpiargdiov.  It  was,  like  the 
inner  curtains  of  the  tabernacle,  the  vail,  and  the  ephod, 
of  “cunning  work,”  —'in  IT— "*3  (Vnlg.  opus  plumari- 
um  and  arte  plumaria).  See  Embroider.  The  breast- 
plate was  originally  two  spans  long  and  one  span  broad, 
but  when  doubled  it  was  square,  the  shape  in  which  it 


1.  The  yin,  cho’shen  (lit.  ornament),  or  pectoral  gorget 
itself,  with  its  four  rings,  b,  rfi5£33,  tabbaoth’  (lit.  seals 
or  signets),  constituting  the  inside,  a,  when  put  on,  be* 
ing  then  folded  down  backward  under. 

2.  The  plate  of  twelve  gems,  set  in  gold,  c,  attached  to  the 
linen  backing  at  the  upper  edge ; with  its  two  gold 
wreathen  chains,  d,  nib  5 ‘("3  niTi'Yi  ( chains  of  cords), 
to  hook  its  upper  comers' to  the  shoulder-clasps  of  the 
ephod,  as  at/,  tig.  3;  e,  two  hyacinth-colored  ribbons  at- 


HIGH-PRIEST 


245 


IIIGH-PR1EST 


taelied  to  the  lower  corners  of  the  plate  for  passing 
through  the  other  two  rings  of  the  linen,  and  then  tying 
to  the  hip-rings  of  the  ephod,  as  at  <7,  tig  3. 

3.  The  Ei’uon  (q.  v.),  with  the  breastplate  inserted,  and  the 
two  straps,  h,  constituting  the  girdle,  GIL’H,  che'sheb 
(belt),  of  the  ephod. 

was  worn.  It  was  fastened  at  the  top  rings  and  by 
chains  of  wreathen  gold  to  the  two  onyx  stones  on  the 
shoulders,  and  beneath  with  two  other  rings  and  a lace 
of  blue  to  two  corresponding  rings  in  the  ephod,  to  keep 
it  fixed  in  its  place,  above  the  curious  girdle.  But  the 
most  remarkable  and  most  important  part  of  this  breast- 
plate were  the  twelve  precious  stones,  set  in  four  rows, 
three  in  a row,  thus  corresponding  to  the  twelve  tribes, 
and  divided  in  the  same  manner  as  their  camps  were, 
each  stone  having  the  name  of  one  of  the  children  of 
Israel  engraved  upon  it.  Whether  the  order  followed 
the  ages  of  the  sons  of  Israel,  or,  as  seems  most  probable, 
the  order  of  the  encampment,  may  be  doubted ; but,  un- 
less some  appropriate  distinct  symbolism  of  the  different 
tribes  be  found  in  the  names  of  the  precious  stones,  the 
question  can  scarcely  be  decided.  According  to  the 
{Sept,  and  Josephus,  and  in  accordance  with  the  lan- 
guage of  Scripture,  it  was  these  stones  which  consti- 
tuted the  Urim  and  Thnmmim,  nor  does  the  notion  ad- 
vocated by  Gesenius  after  Spencer  and  others,  that  these 
names  designated  two  little  images  placed  between  the 
folds  of  the  breastplate,  seem  to  rest  on  any  sufficient 
ground,  in  spite  of  the  Egyptian  analogy  brought  to 
bear  upon  it.  (For  an  account  of  the  image  of  Thmei 
worn  by  the  Egyptian  judge  and  priest,  see  Kalisch’s 
note  on  Exod.  xxviii ; Hengstenberg’s  Egypt  and  the 
Boohs  of  Moses;  Wilkinson’s  Egyptians,  ii,  27,  etc.)  Jo- 
sephus’s opinion,  on  the  other  hand,  improved  upon  by 
the  rabbins,  as  to  the  manner  in  which  the  stones  gave 
out  the  oracular  answer,  by  preternatural  illumination, 
appears  equally  destitute  of  probability.  It  seems  to  be 
far  simplest,  and  most  in  agreement  with  the  different 
accounts  of  inquiries  made  by  Urim  and  Thummim  (1 
Sam.  xiv, 8,18, 19;  xxiii,  2, 4, 9, 1 1 , 12 ; xxviii, 6;  Judg. 
xx,  28 ; 2 Sam.  v,  23,  etc.),  to  suppose  that  the  answer 
was  given  simply  by  the  Word  of  the  Lord  to  the  high- 
priest  (comp.  John  xi,  51),  when  he  had  inquired  of  the 
Lord,  clothed  with  the  ephod  and  breastplate.  Such  a 
view  agrees  with  the  true  notion  of  the  breastplate,  of 
which  it  was  not  the  leading  characteristic  to  be  oracu- 
lar (as  the  term  XoytTov  supposes,  and  as  is  by  many 
thought  to  be  intimated  by  the  descriptive  addition  “of 
judgment,”  i.  e.  as  they  understand  it,  “decision”),  but 
only  an  incidental  privilege  connected  with  its  funda- 
mental meaning.  What  that  meaning  was  we  leant 
from  Exod.  xxviii, 30,  where  we  read,  “Aaron  shall  bear 
the  judgment,  of  the  children  of  Israel  upon  his  heart 
before  the  Lord  continually.”  Now  BS™1 G is  the  judi- 
cial sentence  by  which  any  one  is  either  justified  or  con- 
demned. In  prophetic  vision,  as  in  actual  Oriental  life, 
the  sentence  of  justification  was  often  expressed  by  the 
nature  of  the  robe  worn.  “He  hath  clothed  me  with 
the  garments  of  salvation,  he  hath  covered  me  with  the 
robe  of  righteousness,  as  a bridegroom  decketh  himself 
with  ornaments,  and  as  a bride  adorneth  herself  with  her 
jewels”  (Isa.Ixi,  10),  is  a good  illustration  of  this;  comp. 
lxii,3.  In  like  manner,  in  Eev.iii,  5;  vii,9;  xix,14,etc., 
the  white  linen  robe  expresses  the  righteousness  or  justi- 
fication of  saints.  Something  of  the  same  notion  may 
be  seen  in  Esth.  vi,  8, 9,  and  on  the  contrary  ver.  12.  The 
addition  of  precious  stones  and  costly  ornaments  express- 
es glory  beyond  simple  justification.  So,  in  Isa.  lxii, 
3,  “Thou  shalt  be  a crown  of  glory  in  the  hand  of  the 
Lord,  and  a royal  diadem  in  the  hand  of  thy  God.”  Ex- 
actly the  same  symbolism  of  glory  is  assigned  to  the 
precious  stones  in  the  description  of  the  New  Jerusalem 
(Rev.xxi,  11, 12-21),  a passage  which  ties  together  with 
singular  force  the  arrangement  of  the  tribes  in  their 
camps  and  that  of  the  precious  stones  in  the  breastplate. 
But,  moreover,  the  high-priest  being  a representative 
personage,  the  fortunes  of  the  whole  people  would  most 


properly  be  indicated  in  his  person.  A striking  instance 
of  this,  in  connection,  too,  with  symbolical  dress,  is  to  be 
found  in  Zech.  iii:  “Now  Joshua  (the  high-priest, ver.  1) 
was.  clothed  with  filthy  garments  and  stood  before  the 
angel.  And  lie  answered  and  spake  unto  those  that 
stood  before  him,  saying,  Take  away  the  filthy  garments 
from  him.  And  unto  him  he  said,  Behold,  I have  caused 
thine  iniquity  to  pass  from  thee,  and  I will  clothe  Uice 
with  change  of  raiment.  Ami  I said,  Let  them  set  a 
fair  mitre  (rp:S)  upon  his  head.  So  they  set  a fair 
mitre  upon  his  head,  and  clothed  him  with  garments.” 
Here  the  priest’s  garments,  and  the  mitre,  ex- 

pressly typify  the  restored  righteousness  of  the  nation. 
Hence  it  seems  to  be  sufficiently  obvious  that  the  breast- 
plate of  righteousness  or  judgment,  resplendent  with  the 
same  precious  stones  which  symbolize  the  glory  of  the 
New  Jerusalem,  and  on  which  were  engraved  the  names 
of  the  twelve  tribes,  worn  by  the  high-priest,  who  was 
then  said  to  bear  the  judgment  of  the  children  of  Israel 
upon  his  heart,  was  intended  to  express  by  symbols  the 
acceptance  of  Israel  grounded  upon  the  sacrificial  func- 
tions of  the  high-priest.  The  sense  of  the  symbol  is 
thus  nearly  identical  with  such  passages  as  Numb,  xxiii, 
21,  and  the  meaning  of  the  Urim  and  Thummim  is  ex- 
plained by  such  expressions  as  Tjni  X “H'X  “~‘p? 

“Arise,  shine ; for  thy  light  is  come”  (Isa.  lx,  1).  Thum- 
mim expresses  alike  complete  prosperity  and  complete 
innocence,  and  so  falls  in  exactly  with  the  double  notion 
of  light  (Isa.  lx,  1 ; lxii,  1, 2).  The  privilege  of  receiving 
an  answer  from  God  bears  the  same  relation  to  the  gen- 
eral state  of  Israel  symbolized  by  the  priest’s  dress  that 
the  promise  in  Isa.  liv,  13,  “All  thy  children  shall  be 
taught  of  the  Lord,”  does  to  the  preceding  description. 
“ I will  lay  thy  stones  with  fair  colors,  and  lay  thy  foun- 
dations with  sapphires,  and  I will  make  thy  windows  of 
agates,  and  thy  gates  of  carbuncles,  and  all  thy  borders 
of  pleasant  stones,”  ver.  11,12;  comp,  also  ver.  14  and  17 
(Ileb.).  It  is  obvious  to  add  how  entirely  this  view  ac- 
cords with  the  blessing  of  Levi  in  Dent,  xxxiii,  8,  where 
Levi  is  called  God’s  holy  one,  and  God’s  Thummim  and 
Urim  are  said  to  be  given  to  him,  because  he  came  out 
of  the  trial  so  clear  in  his  integrity.  (See  also  Bar.  v,  2.) 
See  Breastplate. 

(7.)  The  “bonnet,”  migbaah',  was  a turban 

of  linen  covering  the  head,  but  not  in  the  particular  form 
which  that  of  the  high-priest  assumed  when  the  mitre 
was  added  to  it.  See  Bonxet. 

(8.)  The  last  article  peculiar  to  the  high-priest  is  the 
mitre,  mitsne'pheth,  or  upper  turban,  with  its 


HIGH-PRIEST  246  HIGII-PRIEST 


gold  plate,  engraved  with  “ Holiness  to  the  Lord,”  fasten- 
ed to  it  by  a ribbon  of  blue.  Josephus  applies  the  same 
fleb.term  ( paavasp<pOi)Q ) to  the  turbans  of  the  common 
priests  as  well,  but  says  that  in  addition  to  this,  and  sewn 
upon  the  top  of  it,  the  liigh-priest  had  another  turban 
of  blue;  that  besides  this  he  had  outside  the  turban  a 
triple  crown  of  gold,  consisting,  that  is,  of  three  rims  one 
above  the  other,  and  terminating  at  the  top  in  a kind 
of  conical  cup,  like  the  inverted  calyx  of  the  herb  hyos- 
eyarnus.  Josephus  doubtless  gives  a true  account  of  the 
high-priest’s  turban  as  worn  in  his  day.  It  may  fairly  he 
conjectured  that  the  crown  was  appended  when  the  As- 
monceans  united  the  temporal  monarchy  with  the  priest- 
hood, and  that  this  was  continued,  though  in  a modified 
shape,  after  the  sovereignty  was  taken  from  them.  Jo- 
sephus also  describes  the  7 riraXor,  the  lamina  or  gold 
plate,  which  he  says  covered  the  forehead  of  the  high- 
priest.  In  Ant.  vii,  3,  8,  he  says  that  the  identical  gold 
plate  made  in  the  days  of  Moses  existed  in  his  time;  and 
Whiston  adds  in  a note  that  it  was  still  preserved  in  the 
time  of  Origen,  and  that  the  inscription  on  it  was  en- 
graved in  Samaritan  characters  {Ant.  iii,  3,  f>).  It  is  cer- 
tain that  Ik  Eliezer,  who  flourished  in  Hadrian’s  reign, 
saw  it  at  Home.  It  was  doubtless  placed,  with  other 
spoils  of  the  Temple,  in  the  Temple  of  Peace,  which  was 
burnt  down  in  the  reign  of  Commodits.  These  spoils, 
however,  are  especially  mentioned  as  part  of  Alaric’s 
plunder  when  he  took  Home.  They  were  carried  by 
Gcnseric  into  Africa,  and  brought  by  Belisarins  to  Byzan- 
tium, where  they  adorned  his  triumph.  On  the  warning 
of  a Jew  the  emperor  ordered  them  back  to  Jerusalem, 
but  what  became  of  them  is  not  known  (Reland,  de  Spo- 
liis  Templi).  See  Mitre. 

3.  Aaron  had  peculiar  functions.  To  him  alone  it 
appertained,  and  he  alone  was  permitted,  to  enter  the 
Holy  of  Holies,  which  he  did  once  a year,  on  the  great 
day  of  atonement,  when  he  sprinkled  the  blood  of  the 
sin-oflfcriug  on  the  mercy-seat,  and  burnt  incense  with- 


in the  vail  (Lev.  xvi).  He  is  said  by  the  Talmudists, 
with  whom  agree  Light  loot,  Selden,  Grotius,  Winer, 
Biihr,  and  many  others,  not  to  have  worn  his  full  pon- 
tifical robes  on  the  occasion,  but  to  have  been  clad  en- 
tirely in  white  linen  (Lev.  xvi,  4,  32).  It  is  singular, 
however,  that,  on  the  other  hand,  Josephus  says  that 
the  great  fast-day  was  the  chief,  if  not  the  only  day  in 
the  year  when  the  high-priest  wore  all  his  robes  {War, 
v,  5,  7),  and,  in  spite  of  the  alleged  impropriety  of  his 
wearing  his  splendid  apparel  on  a day  of  humiliation,  it 
seems  far  more  probable  that  on  the  one  occasion  when 
he  performed  functions  peculiar  to  the  high-priest  he 
should  have  worn  his  full  dress.  Josephus,  too,  could 
not  have  been  mistaken  as  to  the  fact,  which  he  repeats 
(conf.  Ap.  ii,  7),  where  he  says  the  high-priests  alone 
might  enter  into  the  Holy  of  Holies,  “ propria  stola  eir-: 
cumamicti.”  For  although  Selden,  who  strenuously  sup- 
ports the  Rabbinical  statement  that  the  high-priest  only 
wore  the  four  linen  garments  when  he  entered  the  Holy 
of  Holies,  endeavors  to  make  Josephus  say  the  same 
thing,  it  is  impossible  to  twist  his  words  into  this  mean- 
ing. It  is  true,  on  the  other  hand,  that  Lev.  xvi  dis- 
tinctly prescribes  that  Aaron  should  wear  the  four  priest- 
ly garments  of  linen  when  he  entered  into  the  Holy  of 
Holies,  and  put  them  off  immediately  he  came  out,  and 

I leave  them  in  the  Temple ; no  one  being  present  in  the 
Temple  while  Aaron  made  the  atonement  (verse  17). 

I Either,  therefore,  in  the  time  of  Josephus  this  law  was 
not  kept  in  practice.,  or  else  we  must  reconcile  the  ap- 
parent contradiction  by  supposing  that  in  consequence 
of  the  great  jealousy  with  which  the  liigh-priest’s  robes 
were  kept  by  the  civil  power  at  this  time,  the  custom 
had  arisen  for  him  to  wear  them,  not  even  always  on 
the  three  great  festivals  (.l7if.  xviii,  4,  3),  but  only  on 
the  great  day  of  expiation.  Clad  in  this  gorgeous  at- 
tire, he  would  enter  the  Temple  in  presence  of  all  the 
people,  and,  after  having  performed  in  secret,  as  the  law 
requires,  the  rites  of  expiation  in  the  linen  dress,  he 
would  resume  his  pontifical  robes,  and  so  appear  again 
in  public.  Thus  his  wearing  the  robes  would  easily 
come  to  be  identified  chiefly  with  the  day  of  atonement; 
and  this  is,  perhaps,  the  most  probable  explanation.  In 
other  respects,  the  high-priest  performed  the  functions 
of  a priest,  but  only  on  new  moons  and  other  great  feasts, 
and  on  such  solemn  occasions  as  the  dedication  of  the 
Temple  under  Solomon,  under  Zerubbabel,  etc.  See 
Atonement,  Day  of. 

4.  The  high-priest  had  a peculiar  place  in  the  law  of 


The  Jewish  High-priest  in  full  Costume,  according  to 
Braun  {ut  sup.  p.  647). 


HIGII-PRIEST 


247 


HIGII-PRIEST 


the  manslayer,  and  his  taking  sanctuary  in  the  cities 
of  refuge.  The  manslayer  might  not  leave  the  city  of 
refuge  during  the  lifetime  of  the  existing  liigli-priest 
who  was  anointed  with  the  holy  oil  (Numb,  xxxv,  25, 
28).  It  was  also  forbidden  to  the  higli-priest  to  follow 
a funeral,  or  rend  his  clothes  for  the  dead,  according  to 
the  precedent  in  Lev.  x,  G.  .See  Maxslayer. 

5.  The  other  respects  in  which  the  higli-priest  exer- 
cised superior  functions  to  the  other  priests  arose  rather 
from  his  position  and  opportunities  than  were  distinctly 
attached  to  his  office,  and  they  consequently  varied  with 
the  personal  character  and  abilities  of  the  higli-priest. 
Such  were  reforms  in  religion,  restorations  of  the  Tem- 
ple and  its  service,  the  preservation  of  the  Temple  from 
intrusion  or  profanation,  taking  the  lead  in  ecclesiastical 
or  civil  affairs,  judging  the  people,  presiding  in  the  .San- 
hedrim (which,  however,  he  is  said  by  Lightfoot  rarely 
to  have  done),  and  other  similar  transactions,  in  which 
we  find  the  higli-priest  sometimes  prominent,  sometimes 
not  even  mentioned.  (See  the  historical  part  of  this 
article.)  Even  that  portion  of  power  which  most  natu- 
rally and  usually  fell  to  his  share,  the  rule  of  the  Tem- 
ple, and  the  government  of  the  priests  and  Lcvites  who 
ministered  there,  did  not  invariably  fall  to  the  share  of 
the  high-priest.  For  the  title  “IJuler  of  the  House  of 
God,”  D‘irpxrnr‘'2  T^3,  which  usually  denotes  the 
higli-priest,  is  sometimes  given  to  those  who  were  not 
high-priests,  as  to  Pashnr,  the  son  of  Inimer,  in  Jer.  xx, 

1 ; compare  1 Chron.  xii,  27.  The  llabbins  speak  very 
frequently  of  one  second  in  dignity  to  the  liigh-priest, 
whom  they  call  the  Sagan,  and  who  often  acted  in  the 
high-priest’s  room.  He  is  the  same  who  in  the  O.  T.  is 
called  “the  second  priest"  (2  Kings  xxiii,  4;  xxv,  18). 
They  say  that  Moses  was  sagan  to  Aaron.  Thus,  too, 
it  is  explained  of  Annas  and  Caiaphas  (Luke  iii,  2),  that 
Annas  was  sagan.  Ananias  is  also  thought  by  some  to 
have  been  sagan,  acting  for  the  liigh-priest  (Acts  xxiii, 
2).  In  like  manner  they  say  Zad.uk  and  Abiatliar  were 
higli-priest  and  sagan  in  the  time  of  David.  The  sagan 
is  also  very  frequently  called  Memwmeh , or  prefect  of 
the  Temple,  and  upon  him  chiefly  lav  the  .care  and 
charge  of  the  Temple  services  (Lightfoot,  passini).  If 
the  higli-priest  was  incapacitated  from  officiating  by 
any  accidental  uncleanness,  the  sagan  or  vice-liigh- 
priest  took  his  place.  Thus  the  Jerusalem  Talmud  tells 
a story  of  Simon,  son  of  Kamitli,  that  “on  the  eve  of 
the  day  of  expiation  he  went  out.  to  speak  with  the 
king,  and  some  spittle  fell  upon  his  garments  and  de- 
filed him : therefore  Judah  his  brother  went  in  on  the 
day  of  expiation,  and  served  in  his  stead ; and  so  their 
mother  Kamitli  saw  two  of  her  sons  liigh-pricsts  in  one 
day.  She  had  seven  sons,  and  they  all  served  in  the 
high-priesthood”  (Lightfoot,  ix,  35).  It  does  not  ap- 
pear by  whose  authority  the  high-priests  were  appoint- 
ed to  their  office  before  there  were  kings  of  Israel ; but, 
as  we  find  it  invariably  done  by  the  civil  power  in  later 
times,  it  is  probable  that,  in  the  times  preceding  the 
monarchy,  it  was  by  the  elders,  or  Sanhedrim.  The  in- 
stallation and  anointing  of  the  liigh-priest,  or  clothing 
him  with  the  eight  garments,  which  was  the  formal  in- 
vestiture, is  ascribed  by  Maimonides  to  the  Sanhedrim 
at  all  times  (Lightfoot,  ix,  22). 

It  should  be  added  that  the  usual  age  for  entering 
upon  the  functions  of  the  priesthood,  according  to  2 
Chron.  xxxi,  17,  is  considered  to  have  been  twenty  ' 
years  (by  the  later  Jews  thirty,  Numb,  iv,  3 ; 1 Chron. 
xxiii,  2),  though  a priest  or  liigh-priest  was  not  actually 
incapacitated  if  he  had  attained  to  puberty,  as  appears 
by  the  example  of  Aristobulus,  who  was  high-priest  at 
the  age  of  seventeen.  Onias,  the  son  of  Simon  the 
Just,  could  not  be  liigh-priest,  because  he  was  but  a 
child  at  his  father’s  death.  Again,  according  to  Lev. 
xxi,  no  one  that  had  a blemish  could  officiate  at  the  al- 
tar. Moses  enumerates  eleven  blemishes,  which  the 
Talmud  expands  into  142.  Josephus  relates  that  An- 
tigonus  mutilated  Hyreanus’s  ears,  to  incapacitate  him 
for  being  restored  to  the  high-priesthood.  Illegitimate 


' birth  was  also  a bar  to  the  high-priesthood,  and  the 
subtlety  of  Jewish  distinctions  extended  this  illegitima- 
cy to  being  born  of  a mother  who  had  been  taken  cap- 
tive by  heathen  conquerors  (Josephus,  c.  Apron,  i,  7). 
| Thus  Eleazar  said  to  John  Ilyrcamis  (though,  Jostphus 
j savs,  falsely)  that  if  lie.  was  a just  man,  lie  ought  to  re- 
! sign  the  pontificate,  because  his  mother  had  been  a cap- 
tive, and  he  was  therefore  incapacitated.  Lei',  xxi,  13, 
14,  was  taken  as  the  ground  of  this  and  similar  disqual- 
ifications. For  a full  account  of  this  branch  of  the  sub- 
ject the  reader  is  referred  to  Selden’s  learned  treatises 
JDe  Suecessionibus , etc.,  and  he  ,S 'access,  in  Pontif.  Ebrte- 
or. ; and  to  Prideaux,  ii,  30G.  It  was  the  universal  opin- 
ion of  the  Jews  that  the  deposition  of  a liigli-priest, 
which  became  so  common,  was  unlawful.  Joseph.  {A  nt. 
xv,  3)  says  that  Antioclius  Epiphanes  was  the  first  who 
did  this,  when  he  deposed  Jesus  or  Jason  ; Aristobulus, 
who  deposed  liis  brother  Hyrcanus  the  Second;  and 
Herod,  who  took  away  the  high-priesthood  from  Ana- 
n el  us  to  give  it  to  Aristobulus  the  Third.  See  the  story 
of  Jonathan,  son  of  Ananus,  Ant.  xix,  6,  4. 

II.  The  theological  view  of  the  liigli-priesthood  will 
be  treated  under  the  head  of  Priest.  It  must  suffice 
here  to  indicate  the  consideration  of  the  office,  dress, 
functions,  and  ministrations  of  the  higli-priest,  as  typical 
of  the  priesthood  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  as  set- 
ting forth  under  shadows  the  truths  which  are  openly 
taught  under  the  Gospel.  This  has  been  done  to  a 
great  extent  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  and  is  occa- 
sionally done  in  other  parts  of  Scripture,  as  Itev.  i,  13, 
where  the  Troth)  pjjc,  and  the  girdle  about  the  paps,  are 
distinctly  the  robe,  and  the  curious  girdle  of  the  ephod, 
characteristic  of  the  liigh-priest.  It  also  embraces  all 
the  moral  and  spiritual  teaching  supposed  to  be  intended 
by  such  symbols.  Philo  (De  vita  Mom),  Origcn  (7/o- 
mil.  in  Lerit.),  Eusebius  ( Demonst . Evang.  lib.  iii),  Epi- 
phanius  ( cont . Mdchized.  iv,  etc.),  Gregory  Nazianzen 
(Orat.  i,  Elite  Cretens.  and  Comment,  p.  105),  Augustine 
( Qwest . in  Ex  odd,  may  be  cited  among  many  others  of 
the  ancients  who  have  more  or  less  thus  treated  the 
subject.  Of  moderns,  Biihr  ( Symbolik  des  Mosaischcn 
Cultus),  Fairbairn  (Typology  of  Script .),  Kaliseli  (Com- 
ment. on  Exod.),  have  entered  fully  into  this  subject,  both 
from  the  Jewish  and  the  Christian  point  of  view. 

III.  The  history  of  the  liigh-pricsts  embraces  a period 
of  about  1727  years,  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  best 
chronologers,  and  a succession  of  about  83  high-priests, 
beginning  with  Aaron,  and  ending  with  Phannias.  “The 
number  of  all  the  liigh-pricsts  (says  Josephus,  Ant.  xx, 
10)  from  Aaron  . . . until  Phanas  . . . was  83,”  where 
he  gives  a comprehensive  account  of  them.  They  nat- 
urally arrange  themselves  into  three  groups — (a.)  those 
before  David;  (b.)  those  from  David  to  the  Captivity; 
(c.)  those  from  the  return  from  the  Babylonian  captiv- 
ity till  the  cessation  of  the  office  at  the  destruction  of 
Jerusalem.  The  two  former  have  come  down  to  us  in 
the  canonical  books  of  Scripture,  and  so  have  a few  of 
the  earliest  and  the  latest  of  the  latter;  but  for  by  far 
the  larger  portion  of  the  latter  group  we  have  only  the 
authority  of  Josephus,  the  Talmud,  and  occasioned  no- 
tices in  profane  writers. 

(a.)  The  liigh-priests  of  the  first  group  who  are  dis- 
tinctly made  known  to  us  as  such  are,  1.  Aaron;  2.  Ele- 
azar; 3.  Phinelias;  4.  Eli;  5.  Aliitub  (1  Chron.  ix,  11; 
Neh.  xi,  1 1 : 1 Sam.  xiv,  3) ; G.  Aliiali ; 7.  Ahimeleeh. 
Phinehas,  the  son  of  Eli,  and  father  of  Aliitub,  died  be- 
fore his  father,  and  so  was  not  liigli-priest.  Of  the 
above  the  first  three  succeeded  in  regular  order.  Nadab 
and  Abilin,  Aaron’s  eldest  sons,  having  died  in  the  wil- 
derness (Lev.  x).  But  Eli,  the  4th,  was' of  the  line  of 
Itliamar.  What  was  the  exact  interval  between  the 
death  of  Phinehas  and  the  accession  of  Eli,  what  led  to 
the  transference  of  the  chief  priesthood  from  the  line  of 
Eleazar  to  that  of  Itliamar,  and  whether  any  or  which 
of  the  descendants  of  Eleazar  between  Phinehas  and 
Zadok  (seven  in  number,  viz.  Abishua,  Bukki,  Uzzi,  Zer- 
ahiali,  Meraioth,  Amariab,  Ahitub),  were  high-priests. 


HIGH-PRIEST 


248 


HIGH-PRIEST 


vre  have  no  positive  means  of  determining  from  Scrip- 
ture. Judg.  xx,  28  leaves  Phinehas,  the  son  of  Eleazar, 
priest  at  Shiloh,  and  1 Sam.  i,  3,  9 finds  Eli  high-priest 
there,  with  two  grown-up  sons  priests  under  him.  The 
only  clew  is  to  be  found  in  the  genealogies,  by  which  it 
appears  that  Phinehas  was  6th  in  succession  from  Levi, 
while  Eli,  supposing  him  to  be  the  same  generation  as 
Samuel’s  grandfather,  would  be  10th.  Josephus  asserts 
(Ant.  viii,  1, 3)  that  the  father  of  Bukki — whom  he  calls 
Joseph,  and  (Ant.  v,  11,  5)  Abiezer,  i.  e.  Abishua— was 
the  last  high-priest  of  Phinelias’s  line  before  Zadok. 
This  is  a doubtful  tradition,  since  Josephus  does  not  ad- 
here to  it  in  the  above  passage  of  his  5th  book,  where 
he  makes  Bukki  and  Uzzi  to  have  been  both  high- 
priests,  and  Eli  to  have  succeeded  Uzzi ; or  in  book  xx, 
10,  where  he  reckons  the  high-priests  before  Zadok  and 
Solomon  to  have  been  thirteen  (a  reckoning  which  in- 
cludes apparently  all  Eleazar’s  descendants  down  to  Ahi- 
tub),  and  adds  Eli  and  his  son  Phinehas,  and  Abiathar, 
whom  he  calls  Eli’s  grandson.  If  the  last  of  Abislma’s 
line  died  leaving  a son  or  grandson  under  age,  Eli,  as  the 
head  of  the  line  of  Itliamar,  might  have  become  high- 
priest  as  a matter  of  course,  or  lie  might  have  been  ap- 
pointed by  the  elders.  His  having  judged  Israel  10  years 
(1  Sam.  iv,  18)  marks  him  as  a man  of  ability.  If  Alii- 
ah  and  Ahimelech  are  not  variations  of  the  name  of  the 
same  person,  they  must  have  been  brothers,  since  both 
were  sons  of  Ahitub.  Of  the  liigh-priests,  then,  before 
David’s  reign,  seven  are  said  in  Scripture  to  have  been 
high-priests,  and  one  by  Josephus  alone.  The  bearing 
of  this  on  the  chronology  of  the  times  from  the  Exodus 
to  David  is  too  important  to  be  passed  over  in  silence. 
As  in  the  parallel  list  of  the  ancestors  of  David  (q.  v.), 
wc  are  compelled  by  the  chronology  to  count  as  incum- 
bents of  the  office  in  regular  order  the  four  others  who 
are  only  named  in  Scripture  as  lineal  descendants  of  the 
pontifical  family.  The  comparative  oversight  of  these 
incumbents  receives  an  explanation  from  the  nature  of 
the  times.  It  must  also  be  noted  that  the  tabernacle  of 
God,  during  the  high-priesthood  of  Aaron’s  successors 
of  this  first  group,  was  pitched  at  Shiloh  in  the  tribe  of 
Ephraim,  a fact  that  marks  the  strong  influence  which 
the  temporal  power  already  had  in  ecclesiastical  affairs, 
since  Ephraim  was  Joshua’s  tribe,  as  Judah  was  David's 
(Josh,  xxiv,  30,  33;  Judg.  xx,  27,  28;  xxi,  21 ; I Sam. 
i,  3,  9, 24 ; iv,  3,  4 ; xiv,  3,  etc. ; Psa.  lxxviii,  60).  This 
strong  influence  and  interference  of  the  secular  power 
is  manifest  throughout  the  subsequent  history.  This 
first  period  was  also  marked  by  the  calamity  which  be- 
fell the  high-priests  as  the  guardians  of  the  ark,  in  its  ' 
capture  by  the  Philistines.  This  probably  suspended 
all  inquiries  by  Urim  and  Thnmrnhn,  which  were  made 
before  the  ark  (1  Chron.  xiii,  3 ; comp.  Judg.  xx,  27 ; 1 
Sam.  vii,  2 ; xiv,  18),  and  must  have  greatly  diminished 
the  influence  of  the  high-priests,  on  whom  the  largest 
share  of  the  humiliation  expressed  in  the  name  Ichabod 
would  naturally  fall.  The  rise  of  Samuel  as  a prophet 
at  this  very  time,  and  his  paramount  influence  and  im- 
portance in  the  state,  to  the  entire  eclipsing  of  Ahiali 
the  priest,  coincides  remarkably  with  the  absence  of  the 
ark,  and  the  means  of  inquiring  by  Urim  and  Thummim. 

(6.)  Passing  to  the  second  group,  wc  begin  with  the 
unexplained  circumstance  of  there  being  two  priests  in 
the  reign  of  David,  apparently  of  nearly  equal  author- 
ity, viz.  Zadok  and  Abiathar  (1  Chron.  xv,  11 ; 2 Sam. 
viii,  17).  Indeed  it  is  only  from  the  deposition  of  Abi- 
athar, and  the  placing  of  Zadok  in  his  room  by  Solomon 
(1  Kings  ii,  35),  that  we  learn  certainly  that  Abiathar  was 
the  high-priest,  and  Zadok  the  second.  Zadok  was  son 
of  Ahitub,  of  the  line  of  Eleazar  (1  Chron.  vi,  8),  and  the 
first  mention  of  him  is  in  1 Chron.  xii,  28,  as  “a  young 
man,  mighty  in  valor,”  who  joined  David  in  Hebron  af- 
ter Said’s  death,  with  22  captains  of  his  father’s  house. 
It  is  therefore  not  unlikely  that  after  the  death  of  Ahim- 
elech, and  the  secession  of  Abiathar  to  David,  Said  may 
have  made  Zadok  priest,  as  far  as  it  was  possible  for  him 
to  do  so  in  the  absence  of  the  ark  and  the  high-priest’s  I 


robes,  and  that  David  may  have  avoided  the  difficulty 
of  deciding  between  the  claims  of  his  faithful  friend  Abi- 
athar and  his  new  and  important  ally  Zadok  (who,  per- 
haps, was  the  means  of  attaching  to  David’s  cause  the 
4600  Levites  and  the  3700  priests  that  came  under  Je- 
hoiada  their  captain,  ver.  26, 27),  by  appointing  them  to 
a joint  priesthood : the  first  place,  with  the  ephoil,  and 
Urim  and  Thummim,  remaining  with  Abiathar,  who  was 
in  actual  possession  of  them.  Certain  it  is  that  from 
this  time  Zadok  and  Abiathar  are  constantly  named  to- 
gether, and,  singularly,  Zadok  always  first,  both  in  the 
book  of  Samuel  and  that  of  Kings.  We  can,  however, 
trace  very  clearly  up  to  a certain  point  the  division  of 
the  priestly  offices  and  dignities  between  them,  coin- 
ciding as  it  did  with  the  divided  state  of  the  Levitical 
worship  in  David’s  time.  For  we  learn  from  I Chron. 
xvi,  1-7,  37,  compared  with  39,  40,  and  yet  more  dis- 
tinctly from  2 Chron.  i,  3,  4,  5,  that  the  tabernacle  and 
the  brazen  altar  made  by  Moses  and  Bezaleel  in  the  wil- 
derness were  at  this  time  at  Gibeon,  while  the  ark  was 
at  Jerusalem,  in  the  separate  tent  made  for  it  by  David. 
See  Gibeox.  Now  Zadok  the  priest  and  his  brethren 
the  priests  were  left  “ before  the  tabernacle  at  Gibeon” 
to  offer  burnt-offerings  unto  the  Lord  morning  and  even- 
ing, and  to  do  according  to  all  that  is  written  in  the  law 
of  the  Lord  (1  Chron.  xvi,  39, 40).  It  is  therefore  obvi- 
ous to  conclude  that  Abiathar  had  special  charge  of  the 
ark  and  the  services  connected  with  it,  which  agrees  ex- 
actly with  the  possession  of  the  epliod  by  Abiathar,  and 
his  previous  position  with  David  before  he  became  king 
of  Israel,  as  well  as  with  what  we  are  told  1 Chron.  xxvii, 
34,  that  Jchoiada  and  Abiathar  were  the  king’s  counsel- 
lors next  to  Ahithophcl.  Kcsidence  at  Jerusalem  with 
the  ark,  and  the  privilege  of  inquiring  of  the  Lord  be- 
fore the  ark,  both  well  suit  his  office  of  counsellor.  Abi- 
athar, however,  forfeited  his  place  by  taking  part  with 
Adonijali  against  Solomon,  and  Zadok  was  made  high- 
priest  in  his  place.  The  pontificate  was  thus  again  con- 
solidated and  transferred  permanently  from  the  line  of 
Ithamar  to  that  of  Eleazar.  This  is  the  only  instance 
recorded  of  the  deposition  of  a high-priest  (which  be- 
came common  in  later  times,  especially  under  Herod  and 
the  Romans)  during  this  second  period.  It  was  the 
fulfilment  of  the  prophetic  denunciations  of  the  sin  of 
Eli’s  sons  (1  Sam.  ii,  iii). 

Another  considerable  difficulty  that  meets  us  in  the 
historical  survey  of  the  high-priests  of  the  second  group 
is  to  ascertain  who  was  higli-priest  at  the  dedication  of 
Solomon’s  Temple  : Josephus  (Ant.  x,  8,  6)  asserts  that 
Zadok  was,  and  the  Seder  Olam  makes  him  the  liigh- 
priest  in  the  reign  of  Solomon.  Otherwise  we  might 
deem  it  very  improbable  that  Zadok,  who  must  have 
been  very  old  at  Solomon’s  accession  (being  David’s  con- 
temporary), should  have  lived  to  the  11th  year  of  his 
reign ; and,  moreover,  1 Kings  iv,  2 distinctly  asserts 
that  Azariah,  the  son  of  Zadok,  was  priest  under  Solo- 
mon ; and  1 Chron.  vi,  10  tells  us  of  an  Azariah,  grand- 
son of  the  former,  “he  it  is  that  executed  the  priest’s 
office  in  the  Temple  that  Solomon  built  in  Jerusalem,” 
as  if  meaning  at  its  first  completion.  If,  however,  either 
of  these  Azariahs  (if  two)  was  the  first  high-priest  of 
Solomon’s  Temple,  the  non-mention  of  him  in  the  ac- 
count of  the  dedication  of  the  Temple,  where  one  would 
most  have  expected  it  (as  1 Kings  viii,  3, 6, 10, 11,  62 ; 2 
Chron.  v,  7, 1 1,  etc.),  and  the  prominence  given  to  Solo- 
mon—the  civil  power — would  be  certainly  remarkable. 
Compare  also  2 Chron.  viii,  14, 15. 

In  constructing  the  list  of  the  succession  of  priests  of 
this  group,  our  method  must  be  to  compare  the  genea- 
logical list  in  1 Chron.  vi,  8-15  (A.  Y.)  with  the  notices 
of  high-priests  in  the  sacred  history,  and  with  the  list 
given  by  Josephus,  who,  it  must  be  remembered,  had  ac- 
cess to  the  lists  preserved  in  the  archives  at  Jerusalem, 
testing  the  whole  by  the  application  of  the  ordinary 
rules  of  genealogical  succession.  Now,  as  regards  the 
genealogy,  it  is  seen  at  once  that  there  is  something  de- 
fective ; for  whereas  from  David  to  Jechoniah  there  aro 


HIGH-PRIEST  249  IIIGII-PRIEST 


20  king?,  from  Zadok  to  Jehozadak  there  are  but  13 
priests.  Moreover,  the  passage  in  question  is  not  a list 
of  liigli-priests,  but  the  pedigree  of  Jehozadak.  Then, 
again,  while  the  pedigree  in  its  first  six  generations  from 
Zadok  inclusive  seems  at  first  sight  exactly  to  suit  the 
history — for  it  makes  Amariali  the  sixth  priest,  while 
the  history  (2  Cliron.  xix,  11)  tells  its  he  lived  in  Jehosh- 
apliat’s  reign,  who  was  the  sixth  king  from  David,  in- 
clusive ; and  while  the  same  pedigree  in  its  last  five  gen- 
erations also  seems  to  suit  the  history — inasmuch  as  it 
places  llilkiah,  the  son  of  Shallum,  fourth  from  the  end, 
and  the  history  tells  us  he  lived  in  the  reign  of  Josiah, 
the  fourth  king  from  the  end — yet  is  there  certainly  at 
least  one  great  gap  in  the  middle.  For  between  Ania- 
riah,  the  higli-priest  in  Jehoshaphat’s  reign,  and  Slial- 
lum,  the  father  of  Hilkiah,  the  high-priest  in  Josialfs 
reign — an  interval  of  about  240  years — there  are  but  two 
names,  Aliittib  and  Zadok,  and  these  liable  to  suspicion 
from  their  reproducing  the  same  sequence  which  occurs 
in  the  earlier  part  of  the  same  genealogy^— Amariah, 
Aliitub,  Zadok.  Besides,  they  are  not  mentioned  by  Jo- 
sephus, at  least  not  under  the  same  names.  This  part, 
therefore,  of  the  pedigree  is  useless  for  our  purpose.  Blit 
the  historical  books  supply  ns  with  four  or  live  names 
for  this  interval,  viz.  Jehoiada,  in  the  reigns  of  Athaliah 
and  Joasli,  and  probably  still  earlier;  Zeehariah,  his  son  ; 
Azariah,  in  the  reign  of  Uzziah  ; Urijali,in  the  reign  of 
Ahaz;  and  Azariah,  in  the  reign  of  Hezekiali.  If,  in 
the  genealogy  of  1 Cliron.  vi,  Azariah  and  Hilkiah  have 
been  accidentally  transposed,  as  is  not  impossible,  then 
the  Azariah  who  was  high-priest  in  Hezekiah’s  reign 
would  be  the  Azariah  of  1 Chron.  vi,  13, 14.  Putting  the 
additional  historical  names  at  four,  and  deducting  the 
two  suspicious  names  from  the  genealogy,  we  have  15 
high-priests  indicated  in  Scripture  as  contemporary  with 
the  20  kings,  with  room,  however,  for  one  or  two  more 
in  the  history.  Turning  to  Josephus,  wc  find  his  list  of 
17  liigh-priests  (whom  he  reckons  as  IS  [Ant.  xx,  10], 
as  do  also  the  Rabbins)  in  places  exceedingly  corrupt,  a 
corruption  sometimes  caused  by  the  end  of  one  name  ad- 
hering to  the  beginning  of  the  following  (as  in  Axiora- 
mus),  sometimes  apparently  by  substituting  the  name 
of  the  contemporary  king  or  prophet  for  that  of  the 
high-priest,  as  Joel  and  Jotliam  (both  these,  however, 
confirmed  by  the  Rabbinical  list).  Perhaps,  however, 
Stuleas,  who  corresponds  to  Zedekiah,  in  the  reign  of 
Amaziali,  in  the  Seiler  Olam,  and  Odeas,  who  corresponds 
to  Hoshaiah,  in  the  reign  of  Manasseh,  according  to  the 
same  Jewish  chronicle,  may  really  represent  high-priests 
whose  names  have  not  been  preserved  in  Scripture.  This 
would  bring  up  the  number  to  17,  or.  if  we  retain  Aza- 
riah as  the  father  of  Seraiali,  to  18,  which,  with  the  ad- 
dition of  Joel  and  Jotliam,  finally  agrees  with  the  20 
kings. 

Reviewing  the  liigh-priests  of  this  second  group,  the 
following  are  some  of  the  most  remarkable  incidents: 
(1.)  The  transfer  of  the  seat  of  worship  from  Shiloh,  in 
the  tribe  of  Ephraim,  to  Jerusalem,  in  the  tribe  of  Ju- 
dah, effected  by  David,  and  consolidated  by  the  building 
of  the  magnificent  Temple  of  Solomon.  (2.)  The  organ- 
ization of  the  Temple  serviee  under  the  liigh-priests, 
and  the  division  of  the  priests  and  Levites  into  courses, 
who  resided  at  the  Temple  during  their  term  of  serviee 
— all  which  necessarily  put  great  power  into  the  hands 
of  an  abre  Iiigh-priest.  (3.)  The  revolt  of  the  ten  tribes 
from  the  dynasty  of  David,  and  from  the  worship  at  Je- 
rusalem, and  the  setting  up  of  a seliismatieal  priesthood 
at  Dan  and  Beersheba  (1  Kings  xii,  31 ; 2 Chron.  xiii, 
9,  etc.).  (4.)  The  overthrow  of  the  usurpation  of  Atha- 
liah, the  daughter  of  Ahab,  by  Jehoiada  the  high-priest, 
whose  near  relationship  to  king  Joasli,  added  to  his  zeal 
against  the  idolatries  of  the  house  of  Ahab,  stimulated 
him  to  head  the  revolution  with  the  force  of  priests  and 
Levites  at  his  command.  (5.)  The  boldness  and  success 
with  which  the  liigli-priest  Azariah  withstood  the  en- 
croachments of  the  king  Uzziah  upon  the  office  and 
functions  of  the  priesthood.  (6.)  The  repair  of  the  Tem-  | 


pie  by  Jehoiada,  in  the  reign  of  Joasli;  the  restoration 
of  the  Temple  services  by  Azariah  in  the  reign  of llcz- 
ekiah ; and  the  discovery  of  the  book  of  the.  law,  and 
the  religious  reformation  by  Hilkiah  in  the  reign  of  Jo- 
siah.  See  Hilkiah.  (7.)  In  all  these  great  religious 
movements,  however,  excepting  the  one  headed  bv  Je- 
hoiada, it  is  remarkable  how  the  civil  power  took  the 
lead.  It  was  David  who  arranged  all  the  Temple  ser- 
viee, Solomon  who  directed  the  building  and  dedication 
of  the  Temple,  the  liigli-priest  being  not  so  much  as 
named ; Jehoshaphat  who  sent  the  priests  about  to  teach 
the  people,  and  assigned  to  the  high-pricst  Amariah  his 
share  in  the  work;  llczekiah  who  headed  the  reforma- 
tion, and  urged  on  Azariah  and  the  priests  and  Levites; 
Josiah  who  encouraged  the  priests  in  the  serviee  of  the 
house  of  the  Lord.  On  the  other  hand,  we  read  of  no 
opposition  to  the  idolatries  of  Manasseh  by  the  high- 
priest,  and  we  know  how  sliamefidly  subservient  Urijah 
the  high-pricst  was  to  king  Ahaz,  actually  building  an 
altar  aeeording  to  the  pattern  of  one  at  Damascus,  to 
displace  the.  brazen  altar,  and  joining  the  king  in  his 
profane  worship  before  it  (2  Kings  xvi,  10-1G).  The 
preponderance  of  the  civil  over  the  eeelesiastical  power, 
as  a historical  fact,  in  the  kingdom  of  Judah,  although 
kept  within  bounds  by  the  hereditary  succession  of  the 
high-priests,  seems  to  be  proved  from  these  circum- 
stances. 

The  liigh-priests  of  this  scries  ended  with  Seraiah, 
who  was  taken  prisoner  by  Nebuzar-adan,  and  slain  at 
Riblali  by  Nebuchadnezzar,  together  with  Zephaniah, 
the  second  priest  or  sagan,  after  the  burning  of  the  Tem- 
ple and  the  plunder  of  all  the  saered  vessels  (2  Kings 
xxv,  18).  His  son  Jehozadak  or  Joscdeeh  was  at  the 
same  time  carried  away  captive  (1  Chron.  vi,  15). 

The  time  occupied  by  these  (say)  eighteen  liigh- 
priests  who  ministered  at  Jerusalem  between  the  times 
of  David  and  the  exile  was  about  424  years,  which  gives 
an  average  of  something  more  than  twenty-three  years 
to  each  higli-priest.  It  is  remarkable  that  not  a single 
instance  is  recorded  after  the  time  of  David  of  an  in- 
quiry by  Urim  and  Thummim  as  a means  of  ascertaining 
the  Lord’s  will.  The  ministry  of  the  prophets  seems  to 
have  superseded  that  of  the  liigh-priests  (see  e.  g.  2 
Chron.  xv;  xviii;  xx,  14,  15;  2 Kings  xix,  1,  2 ; xxii, 
12-14;  Jer.xxi,  1,2).  Some  think  that  Urim  and  Thum- 
mim  ceased  with  the  theocracy ; others  with  the  divi- 
sion of  Israel  into  two  kingdoms.  Nehcmiali  seems  to 
have  expected  the  restoration  of  it  (Neli.vii,  G5),  and  so 
perhaps  did  Judas  Maceabams  (1  Maec.  iv,  4G;  comp, 
xiv,  41),  while  Josephus  affirms  that  it  had  been  exer- 
cised for  the  last  time  200  j'ears  before  lie  wrote,  viz.  by 
John  Hyreanus  (Whiston,  note  on  Ant.  iii,  8 ; Prideaux, 
Connect,  i,  150, 151).  It  seems,  therefore,  scarcely  true  to 
reckon  Urim  and  Thummim  as  one  of  the  marks  of  Cod’s 
presence  with  Solomon’s  Temple  which  was  wanting  to 
the  seeond  Temple  (Prid.  i,  138, 144,  sq.).  This  early 
cessation  of  answers  by  LTrim  and  Thummim,  though 
the  high-priest’s  office  and  the  wearing  of  the  breast- 
plate continued  in  force  during  so  many  centuries,  seems 
to  confirm  the  notion  that  sueh  answers  were  not  the 
fundamental,  but  Only  the  accessory  uses  of  the  breast- 
plate of  judgment. 

(c.)  An  interval  of  about  fifty -three  years  elapsed 
between  the  liigh-priests  of  the  seeond  and  third  group, 
during  which  there  was  neither  temple,  nor  altar,  nor 
ark,  nor  priest.  Jehozadak,  or  Josedech,  as  it  is  written 
in  Haggai  (i,  1, 14,  etc.),  who  should  have  succeeded  !Ser- 
aiah,  lived  and  died  a captive  at  Babylon.  The  pontif- 
ical office  revived  in  his  son  Jeshua,  of  whom  such  fre- 
quent mention  is  made  in  Ezra  and  Nehemiah,  Haggai 
and  Zeehariah,  1 Esdr.  and  Ecelus. ; and  he  therefore 
stands  at  the  head  of  this  third  and  last  series,  honora- 
bly distinguished  for  his  zealous  co-operation  with  Zcrub- 
babel  in  rebuilding  the  Temple  and  restoring  the  dilap- 
idated commonwealth  of  Israel.  His  successors,  as  far 
as  the  O.  T.  guides  us,  were  Joiakim,  Eliashib,  Joiada, 
Johanan  (or  Jonathan),  and  Jadclua.  Of  these  we  find 


HIGH-PRIEST 


250 


HIGH-PRIEST 


Eliashib  hindering  rather  than  seconding  the  zeal  of  the 
devont  Tirshatlia  Neliemiah  for  the  observance  of  God’s 
law  in  Israel  (Xeh.  xiii,  4,  7);  and  Johanan,  Josephus 
tells  us,  murdered  his  own  brother  Jesus  or  Joshua  in 
the  Temple,  which  led  to  its  further  profanation  by  Ba- 
goses,  the  general  of  Artaxerxes  Mnemon’s  army  (Ant. 
xi,7).  Jaddua  was  high-priest  in  the  time  of  Alexan- 
der the  Great.  Concerning  him,  Josephus  relates  the 
story  that  he  went  out  to  meet  Alexander  at  Sapha 
(probably  the  ancient  Mizpeh)  at  the  head  of  a proces- 
sion of  priests;  and  that  when  Alexander  saw  the  mul- 
ti tude  clothed  in  white,  and  the  priests  in  their  linen 
garments,  and  the  high-priest  in  blue  and  gold,  with  the 
mitre  on  his  head,  and  the  gold  plate,  on  which  was  the 
name  of  God,  he  stepped  forward  alone  and  adored  the 
Name,  and  hastened  to  embrace  the  high-priest  {Ant. 
xi,  8,  5).  Josephus  adds  many  other  particulars  in  the 
same  connection;  and  the  narrative,  though  sometimes 
disputed  as  savoring  of  the  apocryphal,  derives  support 
from  the  circumstances  of  the  times,  especially  t]ie  leni- 
ency of  Alexander  toward  the  Jews.  See  Alexander 
the  Great.  It  was  the  brother  of  this  Jaddua,  Manas- 
seh,  who,  according  to  the  same  authority,  was,  at  the 
request  of  Sanballat,  made  the  first  high-priest  of  the 
Samaritan  temple  by  Alexander  the  Great.  (See  on 
this  whole  period,  Ilerzfeld,  Gesch.  d.Yolkes  Israel , 1865, 
i,  368  sq.) 

Jaddua  was  succeeded  by  Onias  I,  his  son,  and  he 
again  by  Simon  the  Just,  the  last  of  the  men  of  the 
great  synagogue,  as  the  Jews  speak,  and  to  whom  is 
usually  ascribed  the  completion  of  the  Canon  of  the  O.  T. 
(Prid.  Connect,  i,  545).  Of  him  Jesus,  the  son  of  Sirach, 
speaks  in  terms  of  most  glowing  eulogy  in  Ecclus.  1,  as- 
cribing to  him  the  repair  and  fortification  of  the  Tem- 
ple,'with  other  works.  The  passage  (1-21)  contains  an 
interesting  account  of  the  ministrations  of  the  high- 
priest.  Upon  Simon’s  death,  his  son  Onias  being  under 
age,  Eleazar,  Simon’s  brother,  succeeded  him.  The  high- 
priesthood  of  Eleazar  is  memorable  as  being  that  under 
which  the  Sept,  version  of  the  Scriptures  is  said  to  have 
been  made  at  Alexandria  for  Ptolemy  Philadelphns,  ac- 
cording to  the  account  of  Josephus  taken  from  Aristeas 
(.1  nt.  xii,  2).  This  translation  of  the  Hebrew  Scriptures 
into  Greek,  valuable  as  it  was  with  reference  to  the  wider 
interests  of  religion,  and  marked  as  was  the  providence 
which  gave  it  to  the  world  at  this  time  as  a preparation 
for  the  approaching  advent  of  Christ,  yet,  viewed  in  its 
relation  to  Judaism  and  the  liigh-priesthood,  was  a sign, 
and  perhaps  a helping  cause  of  their  decay.  It  marked 
a growing  tendency  to  Hellenism  utterly  inconsistent 
with  the  spirit  of  the  Mosaic  economy.  Accordingly, 
in  the  high-priesthood  of  Eleazar’s  rival  nephews,  Jesus 
and  Onias,  we  find  their  very  names  changed  into  the 
Greek  ones  of  Jason  and  Menelaus,  and  with  the  intro- 
duction of  this  new  feature  of  rival  high-priests  we  find 
one  of  them,  Menelaus,  strengthening  himself  and  seek- 
ing support  from  the  Syro-Greek  kings  against  the  Jew- 
ish party  bv  oifering  to  forsake  their  national  laws  and 
customs,  and  to  adopt  those  of  the  Greeks.  The  build- 
ing of  a gymnasium  at  Jerusalem  for  the  nse  of  these 
apostate  Jews,  and  their  endeavor  to  conceal  their  cir- 
cumcision when  stripped  for  the  games  (1  Macc.  i,  14,15; 
2 Macc.  iv,  12-15 ; Joseph.  A nt.  xii,  5, 1),  show  the  length 
to  which  this  spirit  was  carried.  The  acceptance  of  the 
spurious  priesthood  of  the  temple  of  Onion  from  Ptole- 
my Philometor  by  Onias  (the  son  of  Onias  the  liigh- 
priest),  who  would  have  been  the  legitimate  liigh-priest 
on  the  death  of  Menelaus,  his  uncle,  is  another  striking 
indication  of  the  same  degeneracy.  By  this  flight  of 
Onias  into  Egypt  the  succession  of  higli-priests  in  the 
family  of  Jozadak  ceased;  for  although  the  Syro-Greek 
kings  had  introduced  much  uncertainty  into  the  succes- 
sion, by  deposing  at  their  will  obnoxious  persons,  and 
appointing  whom  they  pleased,  yet  the  dignity  had  nev- 
er gone  out  of  the  one  family.  Alcim us,  whose  Hebrew 
name  was  Jakim  (l  Chron.  xxiv,  12), or  perhaps  Jacliin 
(1  Chron.  ix,  10 ; xxiv,  17),  or,  according  to  Rufihius  (ap. 


! Selden),  Joachim,  and  who  was  made  liigh-priest  by  An- 
! tiochus  Eupator  on  Menelaus  being  put  to  death  by  him, 
was  the  first  who  was  of  a different  family.  One,  says 
Josephus,  that  “was  indeed  of  the  stock  of  Aaron,  but 
not  of  this  family”  of  Jozadak. 

What,  however,  for  a time  saved  the  Jewish  institu- 
tions, infused  a new  life  and  consistency  into  the  priest- 
hood and  the  national  religion,  and  enabled  them  to 
fulfil  their  destined  course  till  the  advent  of  Christ,  was 
the  cruel  and  impolitic  persecution  of  Antiochus  Epiph- 
anes.  This  thoroughly  aroused  the  piety  and  national 
spirit  of  the  Jews,  and  drew  together  in  defence  of  their 
Temple  and  country  all  who  feared  God  and  were  at- 
tached to  their  national  institutions.  The  result  was 
that  after  the  high-priesthood  had  been  brought  to  the 
lowest  degradation  by  the  apostasy  and  crimes  of  the 
last  Onias  or  Menelaus,  and  after  a vacancy  of  seven 
years  had  followed  the  brief  pontificate  of  Alcimus,  liis 
no  less  infamous  successor,  a new  and  glorious  succes- 
sion of  liigh-priests  arose  in  the  Asmona?an  family,  who 
united  the  dignity  of  civil  rulers,  and  for  a time  of  in- 
dependent sovereigns,  to  that  of  the  high-priesthood. 
Josephus,  who  is  followed  by  Liglitfoot,  Selden,  and 
others,  calls  Judas  Maccabieus  “liigh-priest  of  the  na- 
tion of  Judah”  (.4m/.  xii,  10,  6),  but,  according  to  the  far 
better  authority  of  1 Macc.  x,  20,  it  was  not  till  after  the 
death  of  Judas  Maccalmis  that  Alcimus  himself  died, 
and  that  Alexander,  king  of  Syria,  made  Jonathan,  the 
brother  of  Judas,  high-priest.  Josephus  himself,  too, 
calls  Jonathan  the  “ first  of  the  sons  of  Asmonaeus,  who 
was  high-priest”  {Life,  1).  It  is  possible,  however,  that 
Judas  may  have  been  elected  by  the  people,  to  the  office 
of  high-priest,  though  never  confirmed  in  it  by  the 
Syrian  kings.  The  Asmonsean  family  were  priests  of 
the  c nurse  of  Joiarib,  the  first  of  the  twentv-fonr  courses 
(1  Chron.  xxiv,  7),  whose  return  from  captivity  is  re- 
corded 1 Chron.  ix,  10;  Neh.  xi,  10.  They  were  prob- 
ably of  the  house  of  Eleazar,  though  this  cannot  be  af- 
firmed with  certainty;  and  Josephus  tolls  us  that  he 
himself  was  related  to  them,  one  of  his  ancestors  hav- 
ing married  a daughter  of  Jonathan,  the  first  high- 
priest  of  the  house.  The  Asmomean  dynasty  lasted 
from  B.C.  153  till  the  family  was  damaged  by  intestine 
divisions,  and  then  destroyed  by  Herod  the  Great.  Ar-  . 
istobulus,  the  last  liigh-priest  of  his  line,  brother  of  Ma- 
ri am  ne,  was  murdered  by  order  of  Herod,  his  brother-in- 
law,  B.C.  35.  The  independence  of  Judaea,  under  the 
priest-kings  of  this  race,  had  lasted  till  Pompey  took 
Jerusalem,  and  sent  king  Aristobulus  II  (who  had  also 
taken  the  high-priesthood  from  his  brother  Ilyrcanus) 
a prisoner  to  Borne.  Pompey  restored  Ilyrcanus  to  the 
high-priesthood,  but  forbad  him  to  wear  the  diadem. 
Everything  Jewish  was  now,  however,  hastening  to  de- 
cay. * Herod  made  men  of  low  birth  liigh-priests,  de- 
posed them  at  his  will,  and  named  others  in  their  room. 
In  this  he  was  followed  by  Archelaus,  and  by  the  Bo- 
mans  when  they  took  the  government  of  Judaea  into 
their  own  hands;  so  that  there  were  no  fewer  than 
twenty-eight  high-priests  from  the  reign  of  llerod  to 
the  destruction  of  the  Temple  by  Titus,  a period  of  107 
years.  (Josephus  tells  us  of  one  Ananus  and  his  five  sons 
who  all  filled  the  office  of  high-priest  in  turn.  ( hie  of 
these,  Ananus  the  younger,  was  deposed  by  king  Agrip- 
pa  for  the  part  he  took  in  causing  “James,  the  brother 
of  Jesus  who  was  called  Christ,”  to  be  stoned  [Ant.  xx, 
9,  1].)  The  N.  T.  introduces  us  to  some  of  these  later 
and  oft-changing  high-priests,  viz.  Annas  and  Caiaphas 
— the  former  liigh-priest  at  the  commencement  of  John 
Baptist’s  ministry,  with  Caiaphas  as  second  priest ; and 
the  latter  high-priest  himself  at  our  Lord’s  crucifixion 
(see  Sommel,  I>e  Anna  et  Cuiapha,  Lund.  1772)  — and 
Ananias  (erroneously  thought  to  be  the  Ananus  who  was 
murdered  by  the  Zealots  just  before  the  siege  of  Jerusa- 
lem j,  before  whom  Paul  was  tried,  as  we  read  Acts  xxiii, 
and  of  whom  he  said,  “God  shall  smite  thee,  thou 
whited  wall.”  The  same  Caiaphas  was  the  liigh-priest 
from  whom  Saul  received  letters  to  the  synagogue  at 


HIGH-PRIEST 


251 


HIGUERRA 


Damascus  (Acts  ix,  1,  14).  Both  he  and  Ananias  seem 
certainly  to  have  presided  in  the  Sanhedrim,  and  that 
officially ; nor  is  Lightfoot’s  explanation  (viii,  450  and 
484)  of  the  mention  of  the  high-priest,  though  Gamaliel 
and  his  son  Simeon  were  respectively  presidents  of  the 
Sanhedrim,  at  all  probable  or  satisfactory  (see  Aets  v, 
17,  etc.).  The  last  high-priest  was  appointed  by  lot  by 
the  Zealots  from  the  course  of  priests  called  by  Josephus 
Eniaehim  (probably  a corrupt  reading  for  Jacliim).  lie 
is  thus  described  by  the  Jewish  historian,  “llis  name 
was  I’hannias : he  was  the  son  of  Samuel,  of  the  village 
of  Aphtha,  a man  not  only  not  of  the  number  of  the 
chief  priests,  but  who,  such  a mere  rustic  was  he,  scarce- 
ly knew  what  the  liigh-priesthood  meant.  Yet  did  they 
drag  him  reluctant  from  the  country,  and,  setting  him 
forth  in  a borrowed  character  as  on  the  stage,  they  put 
the  sacred  vestments  on  him,  and  instructed  him  how 
to  act  on  the  occasion.  This  shocking  impiety,  which 
to  them  was  a subject  of  merriment  and  sport,  drew 
tears  from  the  other  priests,  who  beheld  from  a distance 
their  law  turned  into  ridicule,  and  groaned  over  the  sub- 
version of  the  saered  honors”  {War,  iv,  3,  8).  Thus  ig- 
nominiously  ended  the  series  bf  high-priests  which  had 
stretched  in  a scarcely  broken  line  through  more  than 
seventeen,  or,  according  to  the  common  chronology,  six- 
teen centuries.  The  Egyptian,  Assyrian,  Babylonian, 
Persian,  Grecian,  and  Roman  empires,  which  the  Jewish 
liigh-priests  had  seen  in  turn  overshadowing  the  world, 
had  each,  except  the  last,  one  by  one  withered  away 
and  died  — and  now  the  last  successor  of  Aaron  was 
stripped  of  his  sacerdotal  robes,  and  the  temple  which 
he  served  laid  level  with  the  ground,  to  rise  no  more. 
But  this  did  not  happen  till  the  true  High-priest  and 
King  of  Israel,  the  Minister  of  the  sanctuary  and  of  the 
true  tabernacle  w’hicli  the  Lord  pitched,  and  not  man, 
had  offered  his  one  sacrifice,  once  for  all,  and  had  taken 
his  place  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Majesty  in  the  heav- 
ens, bearing  on  his  breast  the  judgment  of  his  redeemed 
people,  and  continuing  a Priest  forever,  in  the  sanctuary 
which  shall  never  be  taken  down ! — Smith,  s.  v. 

Annexed  is  a list  of  the  high-priests  from  Aaron 
to  the  final  overthrow  of  Jerusalem,  derived  from  the 


No. 

sTriplure.1 

Joseph. slid.  v.ll,  5 , 
viii,  1,  3 ; x.S.etc. 

B.C.  ^ 

aa. 

Jeshua  A £ 

3540-3500  ~ 

34. 

Joiakim  / p* 

3500-3465 

35. 

Eliashib  ( « 

3465-3406 

36. 

Joiada 

406-371 

87. 

Jonathan  V ? 

371-389 

3S. 

Jaddua  ) 

359-319 

39. 

(Onias  I) 

319-302 

40. 

{Simon  1) 

302-293 

41. 

(Eleazar  I) 

293-260 

42. 

(Manasseh) 

260-234 

43. 

(Onias  II) 

234-219 

44. 

(Simon  11) 

219-199 

45. 

(Onias  III) 

199-175 

46. 

(Jason) 

175-173 

47. 

Onias  IV 

173-162 

4S. 

Jacimns 

162-160 

49. 

Jonathan 

160-143 

50. 

Simon  III 

143-135 

51. 

llyreaiius  I 

135-106 

52. 

Judas 

106-105 

53. 

Alexander 

105-78 

54. 

llyreaiius  II 

78-41 

55. 

Antigomis 

41-37 

50. 

(Ananeel) 

37-35 

57. 

(Aristobnlus) 

35 

68. 

(Jesus  I) 

35-23 

59. 

(Simon  IV) 

23-5 

CO. 

(Matthias  1) 

5-4 

61. 

(Joazar) 

JB.C.  4-1 
(A.I).  1-i,  5-7 

62. 

(Eleazar  11) 

4 

03. 

(Jesus  11) 

4-5 

G4. 

Annas 

(Ananus  1) 

7-21 

65. 

(Ishmael  1) 

21-22 

66. 

(Eleazar  III) 

22-23 

67. 

(Simon  V) 

23-25 

68. 

Caiaphas 

(Joseph  I) 

25-3(5 

69. 

(Jonathan  I) 

36-37 

70. 

(Theophilns) 

37-42 

71. 

(Simon  VI) 

42-13 

72. 

(Matthias  11) 

43-44 

73. 

(Elioneus) 

44-4S 

74. 

(Joseph  11) 

4S 

75. 

Ananias 

(Ananias) 

48-55 

70. 

(?Jonathan  II) 

77. 

(Ishmael  11) 

55-62 

78. 

(Joseph  111) 

G2 

79. 

(Ananus  11) 

62 

SO. 

(Jesus  III) 

62-65 

81. 

(Jesus  IV) 

C5-69 

82. 

(Matthias  III) 

69-70 

S3. 

(Phannias) 

70 

No.j 

1 enroll.  VI,  3-15, 
50-53;  Ezra  vii, 
1-5. 

Other  pas- 
sages of 

Seder  Olam. 

B.C. 

"l 

Aaron 

Aaron 

Aaron 

A aron 

1657-1619 

Eleazar 

Eleazar 

Eleazar 

Eleazar 

1G19-315S0 

3.  Phinehas 

Phinehas 

Phineas 

Phinehas 

31580-31523 

4.1 

Abishua 

Abiezer 

31523-31460 

5.lBukki 

Bukki 

?14GG-?1409 

c. 

Uzzi 

Ozi 

31409-31352 

7. 

’Zerahiali 

— 

31352-31295 

8J?Meraiotli 

Meraioth 

— 

? 1295-31238 

p. 

?Amariah  I 

— 

3123S-311S5 

Of  Ithamar's 

line. 

10. 

Eli 

Eli 

Eli 

31185-1125 

11. 

A hi  tub  I 

(Ahitnb) 

Aliitub 

1125-31085 

12. 

Ahimeleeh 

or  Ahiah 

(Ahimeleeh) 

31085-1060 

13. 

Abiathar  | 

(Abiathar) 

Abiathar 

1060-1012 

Of  Eleazar's 

line. 

14. 

Zadok  I 

Zadok  I 

Zadoc 

Zadok 

1012-3972 

15. 

Ahimaaz 

Ahimaaz 

Achimas 

Ahimaaz 

3972-3956 

16. 

Azariah  I 

Azarias 

Azariah 

3C56-3917 

17. 

?Amariah 

11 

Jehoachash 

3917-3S87 

IS. 

?Johnnan 

Joram 

Jehoiarib 

3SS7-8S4  ‘ 

19 

Issus 

Jehoshaphat 

8S4-SS3 

20. 

Jehoiada 

Axioramns 

Jehoiadah 

SS3-838 

21. 

Ph ideas 

Phadaiah 

838-3837 

22. 

?Zechariah 

Sudeas 

Zedekiah 

3837-3809 

23. 

Azariah  II 

?AzariahIl 

Jnelns 

Joel 

3809-3776 

24. 

;?AmariahIII 

Jot  ham 

Jotham 

3776-3742 

25. 

1 

Urijah 

Urias 

Uriah 

3742-3730 

26. 

j?[Ahitub  II] 

3Azariah 

III 

Xerias 

Xeriah 

3730-3700 

27. 

3Zadok 

Odeas 

Hosainh 

3700-3(547 

28. 

Shallum 

Meshnllam 

Salhnnus 

Shallum 

3G47-3634 

29. 

Hilkiah 

Hilkiah 

Elcias 

Hilkiah 

3634-3609 

30. 

Azariah  IV 

Azariah  IV 

— 

Azariah 

3609-3598 

31. 

! Seraiah 

Seraiah 

Sareas 

359S-588 

32. 

jJehozadak 

Jozadak 

Josedec 

Jehozadak 

588-3540 

\ Exile.  | 

Scriptures,  Josephus,  and  an  old  Jewish  chron- 
icle, the  Seder  Olam.  Details  may  be  found  un- 
der their  respective  names. 

Highway  (usually  mcsUlah',  or  [Isa. 

xxxv,  8]  masluV,  a raised  road  [see 

Causeway]  for  public  use ; elsewhere  simply 
PHN,  o'rach,  a path,  or  de'rd [*,  he 6c,  a 

“u-ay"  in  general ; once  [Amos  v,  1G]  j’*n,  ch tits, 
outside ).  Travellers  have  frequently  noticed  the 
lack  of  roads  in  Palestine.  Travel  anel  transport 
being  all  performed  on  the  backs  of  beasts  of  bur- 
den, which  usually  move  in  single  file,  the  most 
important  routes  are  only  marked  by  narrow 
winding  paths;  and  the  soil  is  often  so  hard  as 
to  take  no  impression  from  the  feet  of  animals, 
so  that  the  eye  of  an  unpractised  traveller  there 
perceives,  even  upon  a common  thoroughfare,  no 
evidence  that  others  have  passed  along  the  same 
way.  No  repairs  are  ever  made,  no  labor  tin- 
ployed  to  remove  obstacles. — Bastow.  Hence 
the*  striking  character  of  the  figure  by  which 
the  preparation  for  the  return  of  the  captives 
and  the  Messiah’s  advent  are  announced  as  the 
construction  of  a grand  thoroughfare  for  their 
march  (Isa.  xi,  16;  xxxv,  8;  xl,  3;  ixii,  10). 
The  Romans,  however,  during  their  occupancy 
of  Palestine,  constructed  several  substantial 
roads,  which  are  laid  down  in  the  ancient  itin- 
eraries, and  remains  of  which  subsist  to  this  day. 
De  Sauley  (Dead  Sea,  i,  392)  fancied  he  discover- 
ed traces  of  the  old  Moabitish  highways  (Xumb. 
xx,  17).  See  Road. 

Higueri  a,  Hieronymus  Rom  anus  de  la,  a 


HILAIRE 


252 


HILARIES 


Spanish  Jesuit,  and  historian,  was  born  at  Toledo  in  1538. 
He  established  his  reputation  by  fabricating  supposed 
histories.  Thus  he  composed  Cronicones,  fragments, 
which  he  announced  as  copies  of  MSS.  found  at  Worms, 
and  the  work  of  Flavius  Lucius  Dexter,  Marcus  Maxi- 
mus, and  others,  purporting  to  throw  light  on  the  intro- 
duction of  Christianity  into  Spain.  Father  Bivar,  who 
believed  these  chronicles  genuine,  added  a commentary, 
and  published  them  at  Saragossa  in  If)  19.  They  were 
reprinted  at  Cadiz  (1G27),  at  Lyons  (1627),  and  at  Mad- 
rid (1640,  fol.). — Ticknor,  Hist,  of  Spanish  Lit.  iii,  153; 
Ilocfcr,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gener.  xxiv,  658  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hilaire.  See  Hi  la  hi  us.  __ 

Hilali  Codex  of  the  O.  T.  See  Manuscripts. 

Hilaria,  a festival  among  the  ancient  Romans, 
which  they  observed  in  the  Kalends,  April  8,  or  on 
March  25,  in  honor  of  the  goddess  Cybele.  Its  name 
it  derived  from  the  occasion,  which  was  one  of  general 
mirth  and  joy.  The  citizens  went  in  processions  through 
the  streets,  carrying  the  statue  of  Cybele.  Masquerades, 
and  all  sorts  of  disguises,  were  also  permitted.  The  clay 
preceding  the  festival,  in  contrast  with  the  festive  day 
which  was  to  follow,  was  a day  of  mourning.  The  rea- 
son for  this  is  that  “ Cybele  represented  the  earth,  which 
at  that  time  of  the  year  begins  to  feel  the  kindly  warmth 
of  the  spring,  and  to  pass  from  winter  to  summer;  so 
that  this  sudden  transition  from  sorrow  to  joy  was  an 
emblem  of  the  vicissitudes  of  the  seasons,  which  suc- 
ceeded one  another.” — Broughton,  Biblioth.  llistorico- 
Sacra,  i,  494.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hilarianus,  a youthful  martyr  of  the  2d  century, 
one  of  a band  of  Christians  in  an  inland  town  of  Nnmid- 
ia  who  were  arraigned  before  the  Roman  proconsul  for 
attending  the  Christian  meetings.  The  proconsul  sup- 
posed that  the  child  would  be  easily  intimidated;  but, 
when  threats  were  applied,  he  said,  “ Do  what  you 
please ; I am  a Christian.” — Neamler,  Ch.  Hist,  i,  152. 

Hilario  or  Hilarianus,  Q.  Julius,  an  ecclesiastic- 
al writer  of  the  4th  century.  We  have  no  details  con- 
cerning his  life,  as  none  are  given  either  in  his  own 
works  or  in  those  of  his  contemporaries.  He  is  consid- 
ered as  the  author  of  Exposition  de  die  Pasckee  et  Mensis, 
at  the  end  of  Lactantius’s  works  (Par.  1712),  and  in  Gal- 
land,  Bill.  Patrum  (vol.  viii,  app.  ii,  p.  7 45,  Venice,  1772, 
foL): — De  JHundi  Duratione,  or  De  Cnrsu  Temporum , 
first  published  by  Pithou  in  the  Appendix  to  his  Biblioth. 
Patrum  (Paris,  1579),  and  afterwards  reprinted  in  Gal- 
land,  viii,  235.  See  Fabricius,  Biblioth.  Lat.  med.  et  infm. 
i etatis , iii,  251 ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generule , xxiv,  665. 

Hilarion,  Sr.,  of  Palestine,  was  born  near  Gaza 
about  291.  He  had  been  a heathen,  but  at  Alexan- 
dria he  frequented  the  Christian  schools,  and  was  bap- 
tized there  in  306.  The  accounts  of  him,  which  abound 
in  incredible  stories,  are  to  the  following  purport : Re- 
turning home  in  307,  he  gave  away  all  he  had,  and  re- 
tired to  a desert  near  Magum,  not  far  from  Gaza,  where 
he  led  a strictly  ascetic  life.  His  protracted  fasts  and 
religious  exercises  gained  him  the  reputation  of  a saint, 
and  attracted  a large  number  of  disciples.  When  their 
numbers  became  too  great,  he  formed  colonies  of  them 
in  various  parts  of  Palestine  and  Syria,  and  thus  estab- 
lished several  monasteries,  which  he  continued  to  visit 
and  govern.  Having  gone  to  Alexandria  for  the  anni- 
versary of  the  death  of  St.  Anthony,  he  was  on  his  return 
reputed  to  work  miracles,  such  as  producing  rain,  ridding 
the  country  of  snakes,  etc.  An  attempt  having  been 
made  against  his  life  by  the  inhabitants  of  Gaza,  Hila- 
rion retired  to  Libya,  and  afterwards  to  Sicily,  but  his 
miracles  everywhere  betrayed  liim(!).  He  afterwards 
went  to  Epidaurus  (now  Ragnse),  in  Dalmatia,  where  th'e 
legend  says  he  prevented  an  inundation  of  the  town.  To 
avoid  the  popularity  this  miracle  had  gained  him,  he  em- 
barked secretly  for  Cyprus  with  his  disciple  Hesychius, 
and  hid  himself  in  the  neighborhood  of  Paphos.  Here 
again  he  was  discovered,  and  from  all  sides  they  brought 
sick  people  to  him,  whom  he  cured  by  the  laying  ou  of 


hands.  He  died  in  the  island  in  371,  and  his  remains, 
brought  back  to  Palestine  by  Hesychius,  were  buried 
near  Magum.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church  commemo- 
rates him  on  the  21st  of  October.  See  Jerome,  Vita  JJi- 
larioni ; Sozomen,  H ist.  Eccles.  lib.  iii,  cap.  14 ; lib.  v,  cap. 
9;  Baillet,  17cs  des  Sainfs,vo\.  iii,  21  Oct.;  Richard  et  Ge- 
raud,  Biblioth.  Sacr.;  Hoefer, Xouv.  Biog.  Generate, xxiv, 
666;  Taylor,  Ancient  Christanity,  i,  308,  309;  Neander, 
Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii ; Fuhnnann,  Ilandicorterb.  d.  Kirchen- 
Gesch.  s.  v. ; Tillemont,  Mem.  viii,  987. 

Hilarius  Arelatensis,  St.  (HiLxVry,  bishop  of 
Arles),  was  born  about  A.D.  403,  of  a noble  family,  and 
at  an  early  age  attached  himself  to  Honoratus,  first  ab- 
bot of  Lerins.  When  about  twenty-five  years  of  age  he 
accompanied  Honoratus  to  his  see  of  Arles,  but  shortly 
left  it  to  pursue  a monastic  life,  removed  from  the  cares 
and  bustle  of  the  world.  His  patron  Honoratus  dying 
A.D.  430,  Hilary  was  elected  bishop,  but  he  accepted  the 
office  with  great  reluctance.  In  discharging  its  func- 
tions he  conducted  himself  as  an  humble  and  charitable 
man,  but  as  a rather  severe  and  haughty  ecclesiastic. 
A.D.  455  Hilary  deposed  the  bishop  of  Vasontis,  Cheli- 
donius,  on  a charge  of  having  violated  the  canon  law  in 
becoming  a priest  notwithstanding  he  had  formerly  mar- 
ried a tcidow.  Celidonius  referred  the  matter  to  pope 
Leo,  but  Hilary  refused  to  acknowledge  the  papal  juris- 
diction in  the  matter.  Pope  Leo,  jealous  of  his  own  au- 
thority, and  always  anxious  to  extend  his  power,  was 
very  wrathful  at  Hilary’s  summary  proceedings,  nor 
could  Leo  be  appeased,  though  the  bishop  of  Arles  took 
a journey  on  foot  to  Rome  in  order  to  set  matters  right. 
Each  saint  adhered  to  his  own  opinion,  and  they  parted 
with  mutual  ill  will,  and  by  a rescript  of  Valentinian  in 
445,  the  metropolitan  of  Gaul  was  made  virtually  subor- 
dinate to  the  papal  see.  Hilary  died  A.D.  449.  His 
works  extant  are,  Vita  Sancti  Ilonorati , a panegyric : — 
Episfola  ad  Euchamim.  both  of  which  may  be  found  in 
Bib.  Max.  Putr.  vol.  vii.  Waterland  attributes  the  com- 
position of  the  Athanasian  Creed  to  Hilary  ( Treatise  on 
A than.  Creed').  See  Cave,  Hist.  Lit. ; Hook,  Eccl.  Biog. 
vi,  54;  Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist,  i,  340 ; Clarke,  Succession  of 
Sacred  Literature , ii,  191;  Waterland,  Works,  i,  8;  iii, 
214  sq.;  Milner,  Hist.  Ch.  Christ,  ii,  317;  Riddle,  Christ. 
Antiquities;  Milraan,  Latin  Christianity,  i,  272  sq. 

Hilarius  Diaconus,  a deacon  of  the  Church  of 
Rome  in  the  4th  century,  who  was  sent  by  pope  Liberi- 
us,  with  Lucifer  of  Cagliari  and  others,  to  plead  the  cause 
of  the  orthodox  faith  before  Constantius  at  the  Council 
of  Milan.  His  boldness  was  so  offensive  that  he  was 
scourged  and  banished  by  order  of  the  emperor.  He 
afterwards  supported  the  violent  opinion  of  Lucifer 
(q.  v.)  that  all  Arians  and  heretics  must  be  rebaptized 
upon  applying  to  be  restored  to  communion  in  the 
Church.  Two  treatises,  of  doubtful  authenticity,  are  as- 
cribed to  him : (1.)  Comm,  in  If  ist.  Pauli  (published 
often  with  the  works  of  Ambrose)  ; (2.)  Quasi,  in  Vet. 
et  Nov.  Test.,  published  with  the  works  of  Augustine 
(Benedictine  edit.  t.  iii,  App.).  The  Benedictine  editors 
of  St.  Ambrose  inform  us  that  the  manuscripts  of  the 
“ Commentary”  on  St.  rani’s  Epistles  differ  considera- 
bly, and  that  in  some  parts  there  appear  to  be  interpo- 
lations of  long  passages.  This  commentary  is  said  by 
Dupin  to  be  “ clear,  plain,  and  literal,  and  to  give  the 
meaning  of  the  text  of  St.  Paul  well  enough ; but  it 
gives  very  different  explanations  from  St.  Augustine  in 
those,  places  which  concern  predestination,  provocation, 
grace,  and  free  will.” — Lardner,  1 Vorks,  i v,  382 ; Mosheim, 
Ch.  Ilist.  cent,  iv,  pt.  ii,  ch.  ii,  n.  43 ; Dupin,  Eccles.  1 Yrit. 
cent,  iv ; English  Cyclopcedkt. 

Hilarius  Pictaviensis  (Hilary,  St.,  bishop  op 
Poitiers),  one  of  the  most  distinguished  opponents  of 
Arianism  in  the  4th  century,  was  a native  of  the  city 
whose  name  he  bears.  He  was  of  noble  descent,  but  a 
heathen.  Having  become  a convert  to  the  Christian 
faith, he  was  baptized,  together  with  his  Avife  and  daugh- 
ter. He  Avas  subsequently  made  bishop,  about  350,  not- 


HILARIUS 


253 


HILARIUS 


withstanding  his  being  a married  man.  In  85G  he  de- 
fended Athanasius,  in  the  Council  of  Beziers,  against  8a- 
turninus,  bishop  of  Arles  (said  to  have  been  an  Arian,  and 
to  have  held  communion  with  Ursatius  and  Yalens).  For 
this  defense  he  was,  by  order  of  Constantius,  exiled  to 
Phrygia,  but  he  still  continued  to  defend  the  principles 
of  the  Church  against  the  Eastern  bishops,  most  of  whom 
were  Arians.  “ In  359  he  attended  the  Council  of  Seleu- 
cia,  in  Isauria,  which  had  been  summoned  by  order  of 
Constantius,  and  boldly  defended  the  doctrine  of  the  Trin- 
ity against  the  Arian  bishops,  who  formed  the  majority 
of  the  council.  lie  afterwards  followed  the  deputies  of 
the  council  to  the  emperor’s  eonrt,  and  presented  a peti- 
tion to  Constantius,  in  which  he  desired  permission  to 
dispute  publicly  with  the  Arians  in  the  emperor’s  pres- 
ence. In  order  to  get  rid  of  so  formidable  an  opponent, 
the  Arians,  it  is  said,  induced  the  emperor  to  send  him 
away  from  the  court;  but  previous  to  his  departure,  Hi- 
larius  wrote  an  invective  against  Constantius,  in  which 
he  denounced  him  as  Antichrist,  and  described  him  as  a 
person  who  had  only  professed  Christianity  in  order  that 
he  might  deny  Christ.  After  the  Catholic  bishops  had 
recovered  their  liberty  under  Julian,  Ililarins  assembled 
several  councils  in  Gaul  for  the  re-establishment  of  the 
Catliolie  faith  and  the  condemnation  of  Arian  bishops. 
He  also  travelled  in  Italy  for  the  same  purpose,  and  used 
every  exertion  to  purify  the  churches  of  that  eountry 
from  all  Arian  heresies.  When  Anxentius  was  appoint- 
ed bishop  of  Milan  by  the  emperor  Valentinian  in  3G4, 
Hilarius  presented  a petition  to  the  emperor,  in  which 
he  denounced  Anxentius  as  a lieretie.  Though  this 
charge  was  denied  by  Anxentius,  Hilarius  still  continued 
his  attacks  upon  him  for  heterodoxy,  and  created  so 
much  confusion  in  the  city  that  he  was  at  length  order- 
ed to  retire  to  his  own  diocese,  where  he  died  in  the 
year  3G7." 

In  theology,  Hilary  maintained  the  Athanasian  doe- 
trines  with  so  much  vigor  that  he  acquired  the.  name 
of  Malleus  A rianorum.  His  exegetieal  writings  show 
evident  marks  of  the  influence  of  Origen.  Of  his  com- 
mentary on.  the  Psalms,  Jerome  says,  “ In  quo  opere  imi- 
tatus  Origenem , nonnulla  ctiam  de  suo  addidit .”  His  the- 
ological system  is  to  be  gathered  chiefly  from  his  De 
Trinitate , lib.  xii.  He  maintains  the  essential  oneness 
and  equality  of  the  Son  with  the  Father.  As  to  the 
Holy  Spirit,  he  teaches  that  “faith  in  him  is  necessarily 


Spirit  is,  and  is  not  satisfied  with  the  answer  that  he  is 
through  him  and  from  him  through  whom  arc  all  things; 
that  he  is  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  his  gift  to  believers, 
even  apostles  and  prophets  will  not  satisfy  such  a per- 
son, for  they  only  assert  this  of  him,  that  he  is  (De 
Trinit.  ii,  29).  lie  does  not  venture  to  attribute  to  him 
the  name  of  God,  beeause  the  Scripture  does  not  so  call 
him  expressly,  yet  it  says  that  the  Holy  Spirit  searches 
the  deep  things  of  God,  and  it  therefore  follows  that  he  i 
partakes  the  divine  essence  (De  Trinit.  xii,  55).”  His 
view. of  the  body  of  Christ  is  not  entirely  free  from  Do- 
eetism  ; and  in  speaking  of  the  human  soul,  he  seems  to 
think  that  the  idea  of  a creature  includes  that  of  corpo- 
reity (Comm,  in  Matt,  v,  8).  As  to  predestination,  he 
“emphatically  asserted  the  harmonious  connection  be- 
tween grace  and  free-will,  the  porv'erlessncss  of  the  lat- 
ter, and  yet  its  importance  as  a condition  of  the  opera- 
tion of  divine  grace.  * As  the  organs  of  the  human 
body,’  he  says  (De  Trinit.  ii,  35),  ‘ cannot  act  without 
the  addition  of  moving  causes,  so  the  human  has,  indeed, 
the  capacity  for  knowing  God ; but  if  it  does  not  receive 
through  faith  the  gift  of  the  Iloly  Spirit,  it  will  not  at- 
tain to  that  knowledge.  Yet  the  gift  of  Christ  stands 
open  to  all,  and  that  which  all  want  is  given  to  every  , 
one  as  far  as  he  will  accept  it.’  ‘It  is  the  greatest  foi-  ! 
lv,’  he  says  in  another  passage,  ‘ not  to  perceive  that 
we  live  in  dependence  on  and  through  God,  when  we 
imagine  that  in  things  which  men  undertake  and  hope  • 
for,  they  may  venture  to  depend  on  their  own  strength.  | 


] What  we  have,  we  have  from  God;  on  him  must  all  our 
hope  be  placed’  (Comm,  in  rsu.  Ii).  Accordingly,  he  did 
not  admit  an  unconditional  predestination ; he  did  not 
find  it  in  the  passages  in  Bom.  ix  respecting  the.  election 
of  Esau,  commonly  addueed  in  favor  of  it,  but  only  a pre- 
destination conditioned  by  the  divine  foreknowledge  of 
his  determination  of  will ; otherwise  every  man  would  be 
born  under  a necessity  of  sinning  (Comm,  in  Rsa.  lvii).” 

As  a writer  Hilary  is  copious,  and  fertile  in  thought 
and  illustration,  but  often  turgid  and  obscure  iq  style. 
A pretty  full  analysis  of  his  writings  is  given  in  Clarke, 
Succession  of  Sacred  Literature,  i,  302  sq.  The  chief 
among  them  are,  1.  Ad  Const antium  A ugustum  Liber  Rri- 
nms,  written,  it  is  believed,  A.D.  355,  to  demand  from 
the  emperor  protection  against  the  persecutions  of  the 
Arians 2.  Comment  arias  (s.  Tractatus)  in  Erangelium 
Matthiei  (A.D.  35G),  in  the  tone  and  spirit  of  Origen  : it 
is  repeatedly  quoted  by  Jerome  and  Augustine.  The 
preface,  quoted  in  Cassianus  (De  Incam.  vii,  24),  is  lost : 
— 3.  De  Synodis  Fulei  Ccitholicce  contra  A rianos,  etc., 
or  Epistola  (A.D.  358),  explaining  the  views  of  the 
Eastern  Church  on  the  Trinity,  and  showing  that  their 
difference  from  the  Western  Church  lay  more  in  the  ex- 
pressions than  in  the  dogma:  — 4.  De  Trinitate  IAbri 
| xii,  s.  Contra  Arianos,  s.  De  Fide,  cte.  (A.D.  3G0),  his 
most  important  work,  and  the  first  great  controversial 
treatise  on  the  Trinity  in  the  Latin  Church: — 5 .Ad 
Constantium  A ugustum  Liber  secundus  (A.D.  3G0),  a pe- 
tition concerning  his  banishment,  and  a vindication  of 
his  principles  : — G.  Contra  Constantium  A ugustum  Li- 
ber, a virulent  attack  against  Constantius,  which  has 
been  mentioned  above.  It  is  remarkable,  inasmuch  as 
it  eonfines  the  creed  to  the  words  of  Scripture,  and 
proves  that  some  of  the  fundamental  doctrines  of  the 
Romish  Church,  as  opposed  to  the  Protestant,  had  al- 
ready been  called  in  question  at  that  time: — 7.  ('om- 
mentarii  (s.  Tractatus,  s.  Expositiones)  in  Psalmos,  gen- 
eral reflections  upon  the  spirit  of  different  psalms,  writ- 
ten in  the  manner  of  Origen  : — 8.  Fragmenta  Uilarii, 
containing  passages  from  a lost  work  on  the  synods  of 
Seleucia  and  Ariminum,  etc.,  first  published  by  Faber 
in  1598.  Some  of  his  works  are  lost,  and  others  have 
been  erroneously  attributed  to  him.  The  works  of  lli- 
larius  have  been  published  by  Mirrens  (Paris,  1 544),  Eras- 
mus (Basel,  1523;  reprinted  152G,  1535, 1550, 1570),  Gil- 
! lot  (Paris,  1572;  reprinted,  with  several  improvements, 
1G05,  1G81,  1G52);  by  Dorn  Constant,  of  the  Benedic- 
tines (Paris,  1G93,  deemed  by  some  the  best  edition),  the 
Marquis  de  Maffei  (Yerona,  1730),  and  Gbcrtliur  (1781- 
88,  4 vols.  8vo).  See  Vita  S.  Uilarii , operibus  ejus  a 
Dom.  Constant  collectis  pnrjixa  ; Gallia  Christiana,  v ol. 

ii,  eol.  1 038 ; Ilist.  litter,  de  la  France,  vol.  i,  pt.  ii,  p.  139 ; 
Cave,  Seriptores  Eccles.  i,  213 ; Tillemont,  Mi-moires,  vii, 
432 ; Oudin,  Script.  Ecclesiastici,  i,  42G ; ( '‘  illier,  H 1st.  des 
Auteurs  Eedesiasiiques,  v,  1;  Iloe for,  Xour.Eiog.  Gene- 
rate, xxiv,  GG0;  Smith,  Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Homan 
Biogr.  vol.  ii ; English  Cycloperdia ; Herzog,  Iieal-Kncy- 
liopddie,  vi,  84  sq. ; Dorner,  Lehre  r.d.  Person  Christ i,  i, 
1037;  Dupin,  Ecclesiastical  Writers,  cent,  iv;  Neauder, 
History  of  Dogmas ; Ncander,  Ch.  History,  ii,  39G,  419, 
427,  559;  Waterland,  II  ”orks ; Mosheim.  Eccles.  Hist,  i, 
248;  Leckv,  Rationalism  in  Europe,  ii,  13,  151 ; Sliedd, 
Guericke's  Ch.  History , p.  294, 322, 372 ; Milner,  Ilist.  Ch. 
Christ,  ii,  81 ; Hook,  Eccl.  Biog.  vi,  4G;  Gibbon,  Decline 
and  Fall,  Milman’s  ed.,  ii,  320 ; Schaff,  II ist.  Chr.  Church, 

iii,  589,  GG4,  959  sq. ; Bibliotheca  Sacra,  i,  399 ; xi.  299; 
Lardner,  IPwis,  iv,  178;  Riddle,  Christian  Antiquities ; 
Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibl.  i,  1476;  Milman,  Ilist.  Christian- 
ity, ii,  437  sq. ; iii,  1 06, 286, 35G ; Banr,  Dogmengeschichte  ; 
Taylor,  Ancient  Christianity,  i,  223,326;  Christian  Re- 
membrancer. July,  1853,  p.  241 ; Brit,  and  For.  Evangel. 
Rev.  Oct.  18G6,  p.  689. 

Hilarius  or  Hilarus  I,  Pope,  or,  rather,  bishop 
of  Rome,  was  a Sardinian  by  birth,  and  succeeded  Leo 
the  Great  in  the  year  461.  “ He  had  been  employed  by 
Leo  in  important  affairs;  among  others,  he  was  sent  as 
legate  to  the  Robber  Council  of  Ephesus  (q.  v.)  in  449, 


HILARY 


254 


IIILDERSHAM 


against  the  Entychians,  and  was  well  versed  in  matters 
concerning  the  discipline  of  the  Church,  which  he  dis- 
played great  zeal  in  enforcing.  He  interfered  in  the 
election  and  consecration  of  bishops  by  their  metro- 
politans in  France  and  Spain,  and  justified  his  interfer- 
ence by  alleging  the  pre-eminence  of  the  see  of  Rome 
over  all  the  sees  of  the  West,  a pre-eminence  which  he, 
however,  acknowledged,  in  one  of  his  letters,  to  be  de- 
rived from  the  emperor’s  favor.  lie  also  forbade  bish- 
ops nominating  their  successors,  a practice  which  was 
then  frequent.  He,  however,  did  not  declare  elections 
or  nominations  to  be  illegal  merely  from  his  own  au- 
thority, but  assembled  a council  to  decide  on  those  ques- 
tions. Hilarius  died  at  Rome  in  4G7.”  See  English 
Cyclopedia,  s.  v.;  Bower,  Hist,  of  the  ropes,  ii,  141  sq.; 
Jaffe.  Regesta  Pont.  Rom.  p.  48,  033. 

Hilary.  See  Hilarius. 

Hilda,  St.,  the  celebrated  abbess  of  Whitby,  was 
grand-niece  of  Edwin,  king  of  Northumbria,  and  con- 
spicuous for  piety  and  devotion  to  the  Christian  faith 
from  the  age  of  thirteen.  When,  after  the  death  of  Ed- 
win, the  Northumbrians  relapsed  into  idolatry,  Hilda 
withdrew,  probably,  into  East  Anglia,  but  returned  to 
Northumbria  on  the  accession  of  Oswald,  and,  devoting 
herself  to  a life  of  celibacy,  founded  a small  nunnery  on 
the  Wear.  She  subsequently  (about  A.D.  G50)  became 
abbess  of  Heorta,  now  Hartlepool,  where  she  remained 
seven  years.  Oswy,  the  brother  and  successor  of  the 
gentle  and  virtuous  Oswald,  when  marching  to  defend 
his  throne  and  faith  against  Benda,  the  pagan  king  of 
Mercia,  vowed  that  if  the  Lord  vouchsafed  to  him  the 
victory,  he  would  devote  to  his  service  in  holy  vir- 
ginity his  infant  daughter,  the  princess  Elfleda.  Hav- 
ing defeated  and  slain  his  dreaded  foe  near  Leeds,  in 
Yorkshire,  Oswy,  in  pursuance  of  his  vow,  committed 
Elfleda,  with  princely  gifts  in  lands,  etc.,  to  the  care  of 
Hilda.  Soon  afterwards  Hilda  purchased  ten  “hides” 
of  land  at  Streoneshalb,  now  Whitby,  and  erected  a 
new  monastery,  in  which  she,  as  abbess,  took  up  her 
abode  with  her  royal  charge.  The  wealth  of  this 
monastery,  and  the  dignity  and  high  religious  char- 
acter of  Hilda,  made  it  the  most  celebrated  in  Eng- 
land, and  a nursery  of  eminent  men,  among  whom  may 
be  mentioned  Hedda,  Wilfrid,  and  Caadmon,  the  poet. 
Dugdale  (as  quoted  by  Mrs.  Jameson)  says  that  Hilda 
“was  a professed  enemy  to  the  extension  of  the  papal 
jurisdiction  in  this  country,  and  opposed  with  all  her 
might  the  tonsure  of  priests  and  the  celebration  of  Eas- 
ter according  to  the  Roman  ritual.”  She  died  in  No- 
vember, G80,  aged  sixty-three  }rears,  and  was  succeeded 
as  abbess  by  Elfleda.  .Among  the  marvels  related  of 
her  are  that  a nun  at  Ilakenes  saw  angels  conveying 
her  soul  to  bliss,  and  that  certain  fossils  found  near 
Whitby  having  the  form  of  coiled  snakes  were  those 
reptiles  thus  changed  by  the  power  of  her  prayers. — 
.Smith,  Rel.  of  Anc.  Brit.  p.  343-47 ; Butler,  Lines  of  the 
/Saints,  Nov.  18;  Wright,  Bing.  Brit.  Lit.  (Anglo-Saxon 
Period),  see  Index;  Jameson,  Legends  of  the  Monastic 
Orders,  p.  58-G2.  (J.W.M.) 

Hildebert  of  Tours  (Hildebertus  Turoxexsis), 
in  1097  bishop  of  Mans,  and  in  1125  archbishop  of  Tours, 
was  born  about  1055  at  Lavardin.  Though  accused  of 
licentiousness  before  his  admission  to  the  Church,  he  be- 
came one  of  its  brightest  ornaments  for  piety  and  learn- 
ing. During  the  time  of  his  being  bishop  of  Mans,  he 
and  his  church  suffered  much  from  the  contests  of  Wil- 
liam Rufus  and  Ilelie,  count  of  Mans;  nor  was  he  much 
more  fortunate  in  his  archbishopric,  for  he  fell  under 
the  displeasure  of  Louis  the  Fat  because  he  refused  to 
dispose  of  his  Church  patronage  as  the  king  desired : 
the  disagreement  was  at  last  settled,  and  Hildebert  re- 
stored to  favor.  He  wrote  with  great  severity  against 
the  vices  of  the  eourt  of  Rome.  Hildebert  had  great 
“independence  of  mind,  practical  sense,  and  a degree  of 
taste  which  preserved  him  from  falling  into  the  vain  and 
puerile  discussions  of  his  contemporaries.”  His  Trac- 


tatus  Philosophicus  and  his  Moralis  Philosophia,  which 
are  considered  his  best  productions,  are  the  first  essays  to- 
wards a popular  system  of  theology.  He  died  A.D.  1 134. 
His  epistles  and  sermons  were  quite  numerous;  they  are 
collected  in  the  best  edition  of  his  works,  Opera  tam  ed- 
ita  quant  inedita,  studio  Beaugendre  (Benedictine,  Paris, 
1708.  fol.).  See  Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xi,  pt.  ii,  eh. 
ii,  n.  74;  Vita  Ilildeberti,  prefixed  to  his  works  (com- 
plete list  of  his  works  to  be  found  in  Darling,  Cyclop. 
Bibl.  1 vol.);  Gallia  Christiana,  t.  xiv;  Brockhaus,  Con- 
versations-Lexikon,  vii , 9 1 9 ; Bayle,  Hist.  Diet.  p.  454 ; Ne- 
aiuler,  Ch.  Hist. ; Neander,  Hist.  Christ.  Dogmas,  p.  533; 
F uh rm anil,  Handwdrterh.  d.  Christl.  Religions  mid  Kirch - 
engesch.  ii,  300  sq. ; Tenneman,  Man.  of  Philos,  p.  218. 

Hildebrand.  See  Gregory  YII. 

Hildegarde  or  Hildegardis,  abbess  of  St.  Ru- 
pert’s Mount,  on  the  Rhine,  was  born  at  Bockelliein,  in 
Germany,  A.D.  1098.  She  attracted  much  attention  by 
her  pretended  revelations  and  visions,  which  were  held 
to  be  supernatural,  and  obtained  the  countenance  of 
Bernard  and  others,  and  at  last  the  approval  of  Enge- 
nins  III  and  the  three  succeeding  popes,  together  with 
numerous  prelates.  She  wrote  Three  Books  of  Revela- 
tions (Colonise, 1G28): — Life  of  St.  Robert: — three  Epis- 
tles, various  Questions,  and  an  Exjwsition  of  St.  Bene- 
dict's Rule  (all  Colon.  15GG).  Most  of  them  may  also  be 
found  in  Bibl.  Max.  Pat  rum,  vol.  xxiii.  She  died  A.D. 
1180.  — Neander,  Ch.  Hist,  iv,  217,  58G;  Mosheim,  Ch. 
Hist.  cent,  xii,  pt.  ii,  ch.  ii,  n.  71 ; Baillet,  Vies  des  Saints, 
Sept.  17;  Brockhaus,  Conversations- Lexikon,  vii,  921. 

Hildegonde,  a female  saint  of  the  Romish  Church, 
whose  history  is,  in  fact,  a satire  on  Romish  saintsliip. 
She  is  said  to  have  been  born  at  Nuitz,  in  the  diocese 
of  Cologne,  towards  the  middle  of  the  12th  century.  Her 
father  having  made  a vow  to  visit  the  Holy  Land,  she 
accompanied  him,  dressed  in  man’s  clothes,  under  the 
name  of  Joseph.  Her  father  dying,  however,  on  the 
way,  he  intrusted  her  to  a man  who,  after  conducting 
her  to  Jerusalem  and  back  to  Ptolemais,  abandoned  her 
in  a state  of  destitution.  After  various  vicissitudes,  she 
came  back  to  Cologne,  entered  the  service  of  a canon, 
and  finally,  in  1185,  retired  to  a Cistercian  convent  near 
Heidelberg,  where  she  died  April  20,  1188.  She  was 
known  to  the  other  monks  only  as  Brother  Joseph,  and 
her  sex  was  not  discovered  until  after  her  death.  The 
Cistercians  commemorate  her  on  the  20th  of  April.  Her 
life  was  written  by  Ctesarius  of  Ileisterbach.  See  Bail- 
let,  17es  des  Saints,  April  20;  the  Bollandists’  Acta 
Sanct .;  Richard  et  Giraud,  Biblioih.  Sacree;  Hoefer, 
Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiv,  675. 

Hildersham,  Arthur,  a pious  and  learned  Puritan 
divine,  was  bom  at  Stechworth,  Cambridgeshire,  October 
G,  15G3,  of  an  honorable  family.  He  was  brought  up  a 
papist,  and  educated  at  Christ’s  College,  Cambridge ; but 
while  there  he  avowed  himself  a Protestant,  and  was,  in 
consequence,  cast  off  by  his  father.  The  earl  of  Hunt- 
ingdon, a distant  kinsman,  on  hearing  of  the  circum- 
stance, became  his  patron,  and  carried  him  through  the 
university.  In  1587  he  was  settled  as  preacher  at  Ashby 
de  la  Zouch,  in  Leicestershire,  where  (though  often  per- 
secuted, and  forced  to  change  his  dwelling)  he  lived  for 
the  most  part  of  forty-three  years,  with  great  success  in 
his  ministry,  beloved  and  revered  by  all  classes.  He 
suffered  for  conscience’  sake  in  1598,  1G05,  1611,  1G12, 
1G1G,  and  1630,  being  repeatedly  silenced,  deprived,  cen- 
sured, and  fined  to  the  amount  of  two  thousand  pounds 
by  the  Court  of  High  Commission.  He  died  March  4, 
1631.  His  character  was  rich  in  Christian  excellence. 
His  published  works  consist  of  One  Hundred  and  Eight 
Lectures  on  John  iv  (2d  edit.  Lond.  1632,  fol.): — Eight- 
Sermons  on  Psa.  lxxv  (1G32,  fob) : — One  Hundred  and 
Fifty-two  Sermons  on  Psa.  Ii  (London,  1635,  fob) : — A 
Treatise  on  the  Doctrine  of  the  Lord's  Supper  .-—Ser- 
mons on  Fasting,  ete.(Lond.  lG33,fob). — Neal,  Hist,  of  the 
Puritans,  i,  329,  546 ; Middleton,  Biog.  Evangel,  iii,  25; 
Hook,  Eccl.  Biog.  vi,  70. 


IIILDESLEY 


255 


HILL 


4 


Hildesley,  Mark,  a clergyman  of  the  Church  of 
England,  was  born  in  1698  at  M arson,  Kent.  Educated 
at  Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  he  became,  in  1735,  after 
filling  several  minor  positions,  rector  of  llolwell,  Bedford- 
shire, and  in  1755  bishop  of  Sodor  and  Man.  He  died 
December  7, 1772.  lie  was  instrumental  in  the  trans- 
lation of  the  Scriptures  into  tire  Manx  language.  See 
AVeeden  Butler,  Life ; Hook,  Keel.  Biog.  vi,  71. 

Hildreth,  Hosea,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
bom  in  Massachusetts,  January  2, 1782.  He  was  grad- 
uated at  Harvard  College  in  1805,  and  was  engaged  for  a 
number  of  years  in  teaching,  being  professor  of  mathe- 
matics in  Phillips  Exeter  Academy  from  1811  to  1825. 
He  hail  studied  divinity  in  the  mean  time,  and  was  in- 
stalled minister  of  First  Parish,  Gloucester,  51  ass.,  on 
leaving  Exeter  Academy.  Ilis  liberal  views,  and  his 
persistence  in  exchanging  with  Unitarians,  caused  his 
separation  from  the  Essex  Association.  He  was  an  ac- 
tive pioneer  in  the  Temperance  reform.  His  death  oc- 
curred in  1835.  He  was  the  author  of  various  essays 
and  sermons.— Sprague,  A muds,  viii,  445. 

Hildulf,  also  Hidulf,  ok  St.  Inox,  flourished  in 
the  second  half  of  the  7th  century,  and  is  said  to  have 
been  bishop  of  Trier  under  king  Pepin.  This  position 
he  resigned,  and  founded  a monastery  in  the  Yogese 
mountains.  Rettberg  ( Kircheu-Gesch . Deutschl.  i,  467 
sq. ; 522  sq.)  is  inclined  to  think  that  Hildulf  never  held 
a bishopric.  Many  biographies  have  been  published  of 
him. — Herzog,  Reul-Encyliop.  vi,  96.  (J.  II.  AY.) 

Hi'len  (1  Chron.  vi,  58).  See  Holox. 

Hilki'ali  (lleb.  Ckilkiyah',  'Tfiph’n,  portion  of  Je- 
hovah; often  in  the  prolonged  form  Chilkiya'hu, 

2 Kings  xviii,  18,26;  xxii,4,8, 14;  xxiii,  4,  24;  1 Chron. 
xxvi,  11 ; 2 Chron.  xxxiv,  9, 14, 15, 18,  20, 22;  Isa.  xxii, 
20;  xxxvi,  3, 32;  Jcr.  i,  1 ; Sept.  XeX iciatj,  the  name  of 
a number  of  men,  all  priests  or  Levites. 

1.  The  son  of  Amzi  and  father  of  Amaziah,  the  sixth 
in  descent  from  Merari,  son  of  Levi  (1  Chron.  vi,  45). 
B.C.  long  ante  1014. 

2.  The  second  son  of  Ilosah,  of  the  family  of  Merari, 
appointed  by  David  as  a doorkeeper  of  the  tabernacle 
(1  Chron.  xxvi,  11).  B.C.  eir.  1014. 

3.  The  father  of  Eliakim,  which  latter  was  overseer 
of  the  house  (Temple)  at  the  time  of  Sennacherib’s  in- 
vasion (2  Kings  xviii,  18,  26,  37 ; Isa.  xxii,  20;  xxxvi, 
3).  B.C.  ante  713. 

4.  The  father  of  Gemariali  and  companion  of  Elasah, 
who  were  sent  with  a message  to  the  captives  at  Baby- 
lon (Jer.  xxix,  3).  B.C.  long  ante  587.  lie  was  possibly 
identical  with  the  foregoing. 

5.  The  father  of  the  prophet  Jeremiah  (Jer.  i,  1). 
B.C.  ante  628. 

6.  Sou  of  Shallnm  (1  Chron.  vi,  13;  Ezra  vii,  1),  or 
Meshullam  (1  Chron.  ix,  11;  Nell.  xi,  11),  and  father  of 
Azariah,  the  high-priest  who  assisted  Jnsiah  in  his 
work  of  reformation  (2  Kings  xxii,  4-14 ; xxiii,  4,  24;  2 
Chron.  xxxiv,  9-22;  xxxv,  S).  B.C.  623.  “He  is  es- 
pecially remarkable  for  the  discovery  which  he  made  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord  of  a book  which  is  called  ‘The 
Book  of  the  Law’  (2  Kings  xxii,  8),  and  ‘The  Book  of 
the  Covenant’  (xxiii,  2).  That  this  was  some  well- 
known  book  is  evident  from  the  form  of  the  expression” 
(Ivitto).  “Kennieott  (I I eh.  Text,  ii,  299)  is  of  opinion 
that  it  was  the  original  autograph  copy  of  the  Penta- 
teuch written  by  5 loses  which  Hilkiah  found.  He  ar- 
gues from  the  peculiar  form  of  expression  in  2 Chron. 
xxxiv,  14,  rrr-a  -ps  rrn?  r^n  ^t'o,  ‘the  book  of 
the  law  of  Jehovah  by  the  hand  of  Moses whereas  in 
the  fourteen  other  places  in  the  O.  T.  where  the  law  of 
Moses  or  the  book  of  Moses  is  mentioned,  it  is  either 
‘ the  book  of  Moses,’  or  ‘ the  law  of  Moses,’  or  ‘the  book 
of  the  law  of  Moses.’  But  the  argument  is  far  from  eon- 
elusive,  because  the  phrase  in  question  may  quite  as 
properly  signify  ‘ the  book  of  the  law  of  the  Lord  given 
through  Moses.’  Compare  the  expression  iv  yttoi  pe- 


crirov  (Gal.  iii,  19),  and  fTli'3  Y2  (Exod.  ix,  35;  xxxv, 
29;  Nell,  x,  29;  2 Chron.  xxxv,  6;  Jer.  1,  1).  .Though, 
however,  the  copy  cannot  be  proved  to  have  been  Mo- 
ses’s autograph  from  the  words  in  question,  it  seems 
probable  that  it  was  such,  from  the  place  where  it  was 
found,  viz.  in  the  Temple ; and,  from  its  not  having  been 
discovered  before,  but  only  being  brought  to  light  on 
the  occasion  of  the  repairs  which  were  necessary,  and 
from  the  discoverer  being  the  high-priest  himself,  it 
seems  natural  to  conclude  that  the  particular  part  of  the 
Temple  where  it  was  found  was  one  not  usually  fre- 
quented, or  ever  by  any  but  the  high-priest.  Such  a 
place  exactly  was  the  one  where  we  know  the  original 
| copy  of  the  law  was  deposited  by  command  of  Moses, 
viz.  by  the  side  of  the  ark  of  the  covenant  within  the 
vail,  as  we  learn  from  Dent,  xxxi,  9,  26”  (Smith). 
“That  it  was  the  entire  Pentateuch  is  the  opinion  of 
Josephus, A'on  Lengerke,  Keil,  Ewald,  Hiivemick,  etc.; 
but  others  think  it  was  only  part  of  that  collection,  anil 
others  that  it  was  simply  a collection  of  laws  and  ordi- 
nances appointed  by  Moses,  such  as  are  given  in  the 
Pentateuch,  and  especially  m Deuteronomy.  The  ob- 
jection to  its  being  the  whole  Pentateuch  is  the  im- 
probability of  that  being  read  in  the  audience  of  the 
people  at  one  time,  as  was  this  book  (xxiii,  2);  and 
there  are  many  circumstances  which  render  it  probable 
that  what  was  read  to  the  people  was  the  book  of  Deu- 
teronomy, as  the  apparent  allusion  to  Dent.  xxix.  1,  and 
xxx,  2,  in  xxiii,  2,  3,  and  the  special  effect  which  the 
reading  of  the  book  had  on  the  king,  who  did,  in  conse- 
quence, just  what  one  impressed  by  such  passages  as 
occur  in  Dent,  xvi,  18,  etc.,  would  be  likely  to  do.  At 
the  same  time,  even  if  we  admit  that  the  part  actually 
read  consisted  only  of  the  summary  of  laws  and  institu- 
tions in  Deuteronomy,  it  will  not  follow  that  that  was 
the  only  part  of  the  Pentateuch  found  by  Hilkiah;  for, 

: as  the  matter  brought  before  his  mind  by  Iliddali  the 
I pro;  hetess  (2  Kings  xxii,  15  sq.)  respected  the  restora- 
1 tion  of  the  worship  of  Jehovah,  it  might  be  only  to 
j what  bore  on  that  that  the  reading  specially  referred. 
I The  probability  is  that  the  book  found  by  Hilkiah  was 
! the  same  which  was  intrusted  to  the  care  of  the  priests, 
i and  was  to  be  put  in  the  side  of  the  ark  (Dent,  xxxi,  9- 
26) ; and  that  this  was  the  entire  body  of  the  Mosaic 
i writing,  and  not  any  part  of  it,  seems  the  only  tenable 
! conclusion  (Ilengstenberg,  Bet! rage,  ii,  159  sq.)”  (Ivitto). 

7.  One  of  the  chief  priests  (contemporary  with  Je- 
j shua  as  high-priest)  who  returned  from  Babylon  with 
j Zerubbabel  (Xeh.  xii,  7).  His  son  Hashabiah  is  named 
j in  ver.  21.  B.G.  536. 

8.  One  of  those  who  supported  Ezra  on  the  right 
hand  while  reading  the  law  to  the  people  (Xeh.  viii,  4). 
B.C.  eir.  410.  It  is  somewhat  uncertain  whether  he 
even  belonged  to  the  Levitieal  family;  the  date  of  the 
events  with  which  he  is  associated  seems  to  forbid  his 
identification  with  the  foregoing. 

Hill  is  the  rendering  of  the  following  original  words 
in  the  Auth.A'ers.  of  the  Bible.  See  Palestine. 

1.  Gib' ah',  from  a root  akin  to  to  he  high, 

which  seems  to  have  the  force  of  cnn'ature  or  humpisli- 
ness.  A word  involving  this  idea  is  peculiarly  applica- 
ble to  the  rounded  hills  of  Palestine,  and  from  it  are  de- 
rived, as  has  been  pointed  out  under  Gibeaii.  the  names 
of  several  places  situated  on  hills.  Our  translators  have 
been  consistent  in  rendering  gib’ ah  by  “hill:”  in  four 
passages  only  qualifying  it.  as  “little  hill,”  doubtless  for 
the  more  complete  antithesis  to  “moimtain”  (Psa.  lxv, 
12 ; lxxii,  3 ; exiv,  4,  G).  See  Topographical  Terms. 

2.  But  they  have  also  employed  the  same  English 
word  for  the  very  different  term  har,  which  has  a 
much  more  extended  sense  than  giVah,  meaning  a whole 
district  rather  than  an  individual  eminence,  and  to 
which  our  word  “ mountain'’  answers  with  tolerable  ac- 
curacy. This  exchange  is  always  undesirable,  but  it 
sometimes  occurs  so  as  to  confuse  the  meaning  of  a pas- 
sage where  it  is  desirable  that  the  topography  should 


HILL 


256 


HILL 


be  unmistakable.  For  instance,  in  Ezek.  xxiv,  4,  the  I 
“ hill”  is  the  same  which  is  elsewhere  in  the  same  chap- 
ter (ver.  12,  13,  18,  etc.)  and  book  consistently-  and  ac- 
curately rendered  “mount"  and  “mountain.”  In  Numb. 

xiv,  44,  45,  the  “hill”  is  the  “mountain”  of  verse  40,  as 
also  in  Deut.  i,  41,  43,  compared  with  24,  44.  In  Josh. 

xv,  9,  the  allusion  is  to  the  Mount  of  Olives,  correctly 
called  “mountain”  in  the  preceding  verse;  and  so  also 
in  2 Sam.  xvi,  13.  The  country  of  the  “ hills,”  in  Deut. 
i,  7;  Josh,  ix,  1;  x,  40;  xi,  10,  is  the  elevated  district 
of  Judah,  Benjamin,  and  Ephraim,  which  is  correctly 
called  “the  mountain”  in  the  earliest  descriptions  of 
Palestine  (Numb,  xiii,  29),  and  in  many  subsequent  pas- 
sages. The  “holy  hill”  (Psa.  iii,  4).  the  “hill  of  Jeho- 
vah” (xxiv,  3),  the  “hill  of  God"  (lxviii,  15).  are  noth- 
ing else  than  “Mount  Zion.”  In  2 Kings  i,  9,  and  iv. 
27,  the  use  of  the  word  “ hill”  obscures  the  allusion  to 
Carmel,  which  in  other  passages  of  the  life  of  the  proph- 
et (e.  g.  1 Kings  xviii,  19;  2 Kings  iv,  25)  has  the  term 
“mount”  correctly  attached  to  it.  Other  places  in  the 
historical  books  in  which  the  same  substitution  weakens 
the  force  of  the  narrative  are  as  follows:  Gen.  vii,  19; 
Deut.  viii,  7 ; Josh,  xiii,  6;  xviii,  13,  14;  Judg.  xvi,  3; 

1 Sam.  xxiii,  14;  xxv,  20;  xxvi,  13;  2 Sam.  xiii,  34;  1 
Kings  xx,  23,  28;  xxii,  17,  etc.  See  Mountain. 

3.  On  one  occasion  the  word  ma'aleh is  ren- 
dered “ hill,”  viz.  1 Sam.  ix,  11,  where  it  would  be  better 
to  employ  “ ascent,”  or  some  similar  term.  See  M aaleii. 

4.  In  the  N.  T.  the  ivord  “ hill”  is  employed  to  render 
the  Greek  word  fiovvog;  but  on  one  occasion  it  is  used 
for  upog,  elsewhere  “mountain,”  so  as  to  obscure  the 
connection  between  the  two  parts  of  the  same  narrative. 
The  “hill”  from  which  Jesus  was  coming  down  in  Luke 
ix,  36,  is  the  same  as  “ the  mountain”  into  which  he  had  ! 
gone  for  his  transfiguration  the  day  before  (comp,  verse 
28).  In  Matt,  v,  14,  and  Luke  iv,  29,  opog  is  also  ren-  1 
dered  “ hill,”  but  not  with  the  inconvenience  just  no- 
ticed. In  Luke  i,  39,  the  “hill  country”  (>)  opeivg)  is 
the  same  “mountain  of  Judah”  to  which  frequent  refer- 
ence is  made  in  the  O.  Test. — Smith,  s.  v.  Sec  Judah, 
Tribe  of. 

HILL-GODS  (□’’in  "'fpJS;,  “gods  of  the  hills”)  are 
mentioned  (1  Kings  xx,  23)  by  the  heathenish  Syrians 
as  being  those  of  the  Hebrews,  because  more  powerful; 
and  such  deities  (dii  montium),  i.e.  those  that  have  their 
dwelling  or  throne  on  hills,  whence  they  command  con- 
trol of  all  the  region  within  view-,  were  generally  wor- 
shipped by  the  ancient  pagans  (see  Dougtiei  A mil.  i, 
178;  Deyling,  Observ.  iii,  no.  12),  sometimes  in  general 
(Gruter,  Inscript,  f.  21 ; Lactant.  Mart. persec.  11),  some- 
times as  individuals  (Arnobius,  Adv.gentt.  iv,  9;  Augus- 
tine, Cic.  dei,  iv,  8),  since  heights  were  generally  regard- 
ed as  seats  of  the  gods  (Herodotus,  i,  131 ; Xenophon, 
Mem.  iii,  8,  10;  Strabo,  xv,  732;  Dougtiei  Anul.  i,  107; 
Rimptsch,  De  sacris  gentium  in  montibus , Lipsiie,  1719; 
Crcuzer,  Symbolik,  i,  158  sq. ; Gcsenius,  Jesa.  ii,  282; 
Grarnberg’s  Religionsid.  i,  20).  See  High  Place.  Gro- 
tius  (ad  loc.)  specially  compares  the  optifiargg  Pun. 
(See  Walch,  De  deo  Ebneor.  montuno,  Jen.  1746.) — Wi- 
ner, i,  154. 

Hill,  George,  D.D.,  a divine  of  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land, born  at  St.  Andrews  in  1748.  He  ivas  educated  at 
the  university  of  his  native  place,  where  lie  obtained  the 
Greek  professorship,  and  afterward  that  of  divinity.  He 
subsequently  became  principal  of  St.  Mary’s,  chaplain  to 
the  king  for  Scotland,  and  fellow  of  the  Koval  Society 
of  Edinburgh,  and  was  long  an  ornament  of  the  Church 
of  Scotland,  lie  died  in  1819.  Among  his  publications 
are,  Sermons  (1796, 8vo) : — Theological  Institutes  (Edinb. 
1803,  8vo) : — Lectures  on  portions  of  the  Old  Testament 
illustrative  of  the  Jewish  History  (Lond.  1812, 8vo).  But 
his  greatest  work  is  his  Lectures  in  Divinity,  delivered 
to  the  students  while  principal  of  St.  Mary’s  College,  St. 
Andrews.  Dr.  Hill’s  doctrinal  sentiments  were,  in  con- 
sonance with  the  standards  of  the  Church  of  Scotland, 
strongly  Calvinistic.  He  was  the  successor  of  Dr.  Rob- 


ertson (1779)  in  the  high  office  of  moderate  leader  of  the 
Assembly.  The  best  editions  of  his  Lectures  in  Divinity 
are  those  of  Edinburgh  (1825,3  vols.  8vo)  and  Now  York 
(Carter  Ar  Brothers,  8vo).  See  Jones,  Christian  Biog. ; 
Chalmers,  Posth.  Works , ix,  125;  Allibone,  Did.  of  Au- 
thors, i,  846  .;  Iletherington,  Hist.  Ch.  of  Scotland,  ii,  337. 

Hill,  George,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister,  was 
born  in  Charleston,  S.C., February  20, 1797,  was  convert- 
ed about  1817,  entered  the  South  Carolina  Conference  in 
1820,  was  presiding  elder  on  Savannah  District  in  1826- 
27-28, and  then  stationed  at  Milledgeville,  where  he  died, 
August  22, 1829.  Mr.  Hill  possessed, in  rare  combination, 
great  firmness  and  great  mildness,  which,  coupled  with 
vigorous  ability,  made  him  an  excellent  administrative 
officer.  He  was  studious,  and  deeply  pious,  “and  was 
universally  acknowledged  to  be  a bold,  powerful,  and  em- 
inently successful  minister.” — Min.  of  Confer,  ii,  117. 

Hill,  Green,  a colonel  in  the  Revolutionary  army, 
and  one  of  the  pioneer  preachers  of  Methodism  in  Ten- 
nessee, was  born  in  North  Carolina  in  1741.  The  year 
1780  is  given  as  the  first  record  of  his  preaching.  The 
first  Conference  in  North  Carolina  was  held  at  his  house 
in  1785.  In  1799  he  removed  to  Tennessee.  He  died  in 
1825.  See  McFerrin,  Methodism  in  Tennessee,  p.  302. 

Hill,  Noah,  a learned  Independent  minister,  was 
born  at  Cradlev,  England,  1739,  and  educated  at  Davcn- 
trv,  where  he  was  classical  master  for  ten  years.  He 
became  rector  of  the  Gravel  Lane  Chapel,  London,  1771, 
and  preached  there  thirty-seven  years.  He  died  in  1815. 
His  Sernums  (Lond.  1822, 8vo)  are  said  to  abound  in  fe- 
licitous illustrations. 

Hill,  Sin  Richard,  one  of  a family  distinguished 
for  piety,  eccentricity,  and  usefulness,  son  of  Sir  Rowland 
Ilill  of  Ilawkestone,  was  born  in  1733,  and  was  educated 
at  Westminster  School  and  Magdalen  College,  Oxford. 
“In  youth  he  was  subject  to  deep  religious  impressions; 
he  endeavored  to  remove  them  by  dissipation  on  the 
Continent,”  but  they  were  only  deepened.  On  his  re- 
turn he  sought  advice  from  Fletcher  of  Madelev,  and 
was  converted,  lie  became  a zealous  promoter  of  Meth- 
odism. When  the  “Methodist  students”  were  expelled 
from  Oxford,  he  wrote,  in  rebuke  of  that  intolerant  meas- 
ure, a large  pamphlet,  entitled,  Pietas  Oxoniensis : a full 
Account  of  the  Expulsion  of  Six  Students  from  St.  Ed- 
mund's Hall  (Lond.  1768,  8vo).  When  the  Calvinistic 
controversy  arose  among  the  Methodists,  Hill  took  sides 
against  Wesley  and  Fletcher,  and  wrote  a number  of  vir- 
ulent Letters  to  Mr.  Fletcher  (answered  in  Fletcher’s 
Checks  to  A ntinomianisni).  lie  also  wrote,  against  Wes- 
ley, The  Farrago  Double  Distilled:  a lie  view  of  Wesley's 
Doctrines;  The  Finishing  Stroke,  and  other  pamphlets, 
answers  to  which  may  be  found  in  Fletcher,  as  above, 
and  in  Wesley,  Works,  vol.  vi.  He  afterward  found  bet- 
ter employment  in  writing  An  Apology  f of  Brotherly 
Love,  against  Daubeny's  Guide  (Lond.  1798,  8vo),  and 
Letter  to  Mr.  Medan  on  his  Defense  of  Polygamy.  He 
preached  as  occasion  demanded  in  dissenting  chapels, 
and  was  an  active  and  useful  Christian  throughout  his 
life,  lie  died  in  1808.  See  Rose,  Gen.  Biog.  Dictionary ; 
Wesley,  Bo?-As,  vi,  144  sq. ; Stevens , History  of  Method- 
ism,vol.  ii,  ch.  i and  ii ; Sidnej',  Life  of  Sir  Richard  Ilill 
(Lond.  1839,  8vo). 

Hill,  Rowland,  brother  of  Sir  Richard  Hill,  a 
popular  and  pious,  though  eccentric  minister,  was  born 
at  Ilawkestone  Aug.  13th  or  23d,  1744.  His  views  were 
early  directed  towards  the  ministry  in  connection  with 
the  Church  of  England,  and  his  religious  life  was  great- 
ly developed  during  his  residence  as  a student  at  Eton 
and  St.John’s  College,  Cambridge,  where  he  imbibed  the 
principles  of  Whitefield  and  the  Calvinistic  Methodists, 
which  he  strenuously  maintained  through  life.  His  re- 
ligious zeal  at  college  was  strongly  marked,  but  he  did 
not  allow  it  to  interfere  ivith  his  studies,  lie  expe- 
rienced the  greatest  difficulty  in  obtaining  admission 
into  the  Church — six  bishops  refused  in  turn  to  ordain 
him,  and  he  succeeded  at  length  only  through  family 


HILL 


257 


HILLEL 


influence.  After  his  ordination  he  resumed  itinerancy, 
much  against  the  wishes  of  his  father.  In  1773  lie  ob- 
tained the  parish  of  Kingston,  Somerset,  and  was  mar- 
ried in  the  same  year,  yet  still  kept  up  his  itinerant 
ministry.  His  vigor  of  thought,  earnestness,  eccen- 
tricity, and  wit  drew  thousands  to  listen  to  him.  In 
1780  his  father’s  death  left  him  wealth ; and,  with  the 
aid  of  his  numerous  friends,  lie  built  Surrey  Chapel, 
London,  in  1782.  Here  he  preached  to  vast  congrega- 
tions for  many  years.  He  died  April  11,  1833.  Li  the 
controversy  between  the  Arminian  and  Calviuistic  Meth- 
odists Hill  took  an  active  part,  and  wrote  several  bitter 
pamphlets  against  John  Wesley,  especially  Imposture 
detected  (Bristol,  1777): — Full  Answer  to  John  Wesley 
(Bristol,  1777).  When  the  strife  ended  Hill  regretted 
his  severe  language,  and  suppressed  one  of  his  bitterest 
publications.  See  Sidney,  Life  of  Rowland  Hill  (Lond. 
1835,  8vo) ; Stevens,  History  of  Methodism,  vol.  ii,  ch.  i 
and  ii;  Wesley,  HorFs,  iv,  473;  vi,  193,  199. 

Hill,  William,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minister,  was 
born  in  Cumberland  Co.,  Va.,  March  3, 17G9.  In  1785  he 
entered  Hampden  Sidney  College.  While  there  be  em- 
braced religion,  and  decided  to  study  for  the  ministry, 
lie  graduated  in  1788,  and  was  licensed  to  preach  by 
the  Presbytery  of  Hanover  July  10, 1790.  After  acting 
for  two  years  as  missionary,  he  settled  in  Berkeley, Va., 
and  in  January,  1800,  assumed  charge  of  the  Presbyteri- 
an Church  in  Winchester.  In  February,  1834,  he  be- 
came pastor  of  the  Briery  Presbyterian  Church  in  Prince 
Edward  Co.,  where  he  remained  only  two  years,  when 
impaired  health  obliged  him  to  resign,  and  he  returned 
to  Winchester  to  pass  the  last  days  of  his  life,  lie  died 
there  Nov.  16, 1852.  I>r.  Hill  was  engaged  on  a I History 
of  the  Presbyterian  Church  in  the  United  States,  intended 
to  make  two  8vo  vols.  lie  decided  to  publish  it  in  num- 
bers, but  only  a single  number  of  it.  appeared.  “ In  the 
great  contest  that  issued  in  the  division  of  the  Church, 
Dr.  Hill’s  judgment,  sympathies,  and  acts  were  fully 
with  the  New  School.” — Presb.  Quarterly  Review,  1853  ; 
Sprague,  A nnals,  iii,  563.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hilla  or  Hillel  Codex  of  the  O.  T.  See  M.vx- 

USCKIl'TS. 

Hil'lel  (Ileb.  Hillel',  b\7),  praising ; Sept.  ’EM?) A, 
Josephus,  "EMi/Aor;),  a Pirathonite,  father  of  the  judge 
Abdon  (Judg.  xii,  13,  15).  B.C.  ante  1233. 

Hillel  I,  IIa-Zakex  (*£7n,  or  the  Great),  bex-Si- 
mox,  was  born  at  Babylon  about  B.C.  75.  lie  was  one 
of  the  most  eminent  Jewish  rabbis,  founder  of  a school 
which  bore  his  name,  and  by  his  self-denying,  holy  life, 
and  great  wisdom  and  learning,  exercised  a very  remark- 
able influence  both  upon  the  theology  and  literature  of 
his  nation.  About  B.C.  36  he  came  to  Jerusalem,  where, 
while  obliged  to  work  for  his  daily  bread,  he  attended  at 
the  same  time  the  lectures  of  Shemaja  and  Abtalion, 
then  the  presiding  officers  of  the  Sanhedrim.  About 
B.C.  30  he  was  himself  chosen  president  of  the  Sanhe- 
drim. This  office  he  held  for  forty  years  with  great  suc- 
cess. Etheridge  says : “ Ilis  administration,  along  with 
his  coadjutor  Shammai,  forms  an  era  in  the  history  of 
rabbinical  learning.  Ilis  scholars  were  numbered  by 
thousands.  The  Talmud  commemorates  eighty  of  them 
by  name,  among  whom  are  the  celebrated  R.  Joclianan 
ben-Zaeliai,  and  Jonathan  ben-Uziel,  the  Chaldee  Tar- 
gumist  on  the  Prophets.”  Some  have  asserted  (Gins- 
burg  in  Kitto,  among  others)  that  by  his  teachings  he 
prepared  his  people  for  the  coming  of  Christ,  but  we  are 
inclined  to  believe  that,  while  Hillel  was  a most  noble  j 
leader  of  the  Jews,  teaching  as  he  did  that  the  cardinal 
doctrine  and  aim  of  life  is  “ to  be  gentle,  showing  all 
meekness  to  all  men,”  and  “when  reviled  not  to  revile  j 
again,”  yet  his  views  of  the  prophecies  rather  inclined  j 
him  to  give  warning  to  his  nation — especially  prepared,  I 
by  their  social  and  political  discomfort,  to  look  more  in-  j 
tently  for  the  coming  of  that  mysterious  king  who,  ac-  : 
cording  to  their  idea,  was  to  free  them  from  the  oppres-  j 
sion  of  Herod  as  well  as  Caesar,  ana  establish  in  the  land  J 
IV.— K 


of  Judah  a throne  that  should  have  supremacy  over  all 
others— by  asserting  that  “no  such  king  will  ever  ap- 
pear” ( Sanhedrim ).  But  it  is  undoubtedly  true  that  he 
foresaw  the  dispersion  of  his  nation,  for  the  Talmud  in- 
forms us  that  he  drew  up  civil  and  political  ordinances 
intended  to  regulate  their  relation  to  each  other  after 
their  separation.  While  president  of  the  Sanhedrim,  his 
great  aim  was  to  give  greater  precision  to  the  study  of 
the  law.  Before  lus  time  tradition-learning  had  been 
divided  into  six  hundred,  or,  as  some  have  it,  seven 
hundred  sections.  He  simplified  the  subject  by  arrang- 
ing this  once  complicated  mass  under  six  (Sedarim) 
treatises— the  basis,  really,  of  the  future  Mishna  labors 
of  Akiba,  Chijja,  anil  Jeluida  Ilakkodesh  in  this  depart- 
ment. Hillel  was  also  the  first  who  laid  down  definite 
hermeneutical  rules  for  the  inteqiretation  of  the  O.  T. 
They  are  very  important  for  a proper  understanding 
of  the  ancient  versions  (Midrasli).  Ilis  colleague,  the 
vice-president  of  the  Sanhedrim,  Shammai,  became  dis- 
pleased with  the  liberality  of  Ilillel’s  mind,  and  this 
finally  resulted  in  the  establishment  of  “the  school  of 
Shammai”  by  the  side,  of  “ the  school  of  Ilillel.”  Their 
points  of  difference  related  to  questions  of  jurisprudence 
and  Church  discipline,  not  to  dogmas,  yet  their  disputes 
caused  great  excitement  among  the  Jews.  Hillel’s  par- 
ty Anally  prevailed,  in  consequence,  it  is  said,  of  a bath 
kol  (q.  v.)  in  his  favor.  Jerome  and  some  other  writeis 
have  considered  Ilillel  as  the  founder  of  the  sect  oi 
Pharisees,  and  Shammai  as  the  first  Scribe.  This,  how- 
ever, is  an  error,  for  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees  did  not 
constitute  two  distinct  sects,  and,  moreover,  were  ante- 
rior to  these  two  teachers.  Ilillel  died  when  Jesus  was 
about  ten  years  of  age.  It  seems  strange  that  Josephus 
makes  no  mention  of  Hillel.  Arnold  (in  Herzog,  Real- 
Encyldop.xW,  97,  thinks  that  Pollio  (Ant.  xvi,  1,1,  10) 
stands  for  Ilillel.  To  the  school  of  Ilillel  is  attributed 
the  authorship  of  Megillath  Beth  Ilashmonaim,  a work 
on  the  history  of  the  Maccabees,  now  lost.  See  Barto- 
locci,  Magna  Biblioth.  Rabbin,  ii,  783-796;  G.  E.  Geiger 
et  II.  Giessman,  Brevis  Commcntatio  de  Hillele  et  Schutn- 
mai,  etc.  (Altdorf,  1707,  4to) ; Iloefer,  A "our.  Biog.  Gene- 
rale,  xxiv,  686;  Engl.  Cyelopcedia;  Fiirst,  Kultnr-gesch. 

i,  13;  Etheridge,  Tntrod.  to  Hebr.  Literat.  p.  33;  Griitz, 
Gesch.  d.  Juden,  viii,  207;  Jost,  Gesch.  d.  Israel,  i,  254; 
Kitto,  Cyclop,  of  Bib.  Liter,  ii,  303 ; Wolf,  Biblioth.  Ilebr. 

ii,  824-8.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hillel  II,  ben-J ehudaii  III  (sometimes  called  the 
younger,  because  a descendant  of  Hillel  I,  or  the  elder, 
q.  v.),  came  to  the  presidency  of  the  Sanhedrim  about 
A.D.  330  (some  say  A.D.  258),  which  he  held  for  about 
thirty-five  years.  As  president  of  the  Sanhedrim,  he 
was,  of  course,  the  head  of  the  Jewish  school  at  Tibe- 
rias, anil  it  is  said  that  while  in  this  position  he  was 
often  consulted  by  Origen.  Some  think  him  the  E1H 
mentioned  by  Epiphanies  (adrer.  Hares,  xxx,  4 sq.), 
who  embraced  the  Christian  faith  on  his  death-bed. 
But  this  fact  is  unlikely,  as  the  Jews  of  Hillel’s  time 
make  no  mention  of  it  whatever.  Had  it  occurred  they 
would  undoubtedly  have  execrated  his  name.  It  is  an 
interesting  fact,  however,  connected  with  Biblical  liter- 
ature to  learn  from  Epiphanies  that  a Hebrew  transla- 
tion of  the  Gospel  of  John,  of  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles, 
and  of  Christ’s  genealogy  as  recorded  by  Matthew,  ex- 
isted at  this  early  period  of  Christianity,  for  it  is  said 
of  the  Ellel  above  referred  to,  that  a Hebrew  translation 
of  the  parts  of  the  N.  T.  just  mentioned  was  found  se- 
creted in  the  cabinet  of  the  nasi  (president),  subsequent- 
ly to  his  death.  Hillel  is  said  to  have  convoked  a rab- 
binical synod  which  adjusted  the  period  of  the  sun  with 
that  of  the  moon  in  calculating  time,  though  it  was  not 
used  until  the  change  introduced  under  Alphonso,  king 
of  Castile  (Bartolocci,  Magna  Bibliotheca  Rabbinicarum . 
ii,  415  sq.).  This  calendar,  while  it  greatly  facilitated 
the  uniform  observance  of  the  Paschal  festival  and  other 
great  festivals,  tended  to  promote  unity  among  a people 
dispersed  through  so  many  lands.  “ If  the  acts  of  this 
synod  had  been  handed  down  ni  a written  form,  we 


HILLER 


258 


HDIYARITES 


should  probably  have  had  in  them  some  light  on  the 
present  discrepancies  between  the  chronology  of  the 
Hebrew  text  and  that  of  the  Septuagint.”  It  is  gen- 
erally believed  that  the  rabbins  of  this  synod  fixed  the 
epoch  of  the  Creation  at  the  vernal  equinox,  3761  years 
before  the  birth  of  Christ.  Indeed,  Hillel’s  great  repu-  j 
tation,  nay,  immortality,  rests  upon  his  introduction  of 
the  calendar  (q.  v.)  of  the  Jewish  year,  used  even  at 
present  with  little  variation.  “According  to  this  cal- 
endar, the  difference  between  the  solar  and  lunar  year, 
upon  which  the  cycle  of  the  Jewish  festivals  depends,  is 
yearly  made  up;  the  length  of  the  month  is  made  to 
approximate  to  the  astronomical  course  of  the  moon, 
and  attention  is  also  paid  in  it  to  the  llalachic  matters 
connected  with  the  Jewish  festivals.  It  is  based  upon 
the  cycle  of  nineteen  years  (n;2~n  “TITS),  introduced 
by  the  Greek  astronomer  Meton,  in  which  occur  seven 
intercalary  years.  Each  year  has  ten  unchangeable 
months  of  alternately  twenty-nine  and  thirty  days;  the 
two  autumnal  months,  Cheslican  and  Kislev , which  fol- 
low the  important  month  Tisri,  are  left  changeable  [see 
Haphtarah],  because  they  depend  upon  certain  astro- 
nomical phenomena  and  the  following  points  of  Jewish 
law : 1.  That  the  month  of  Tisri  is  never  to  begin  with 
the  day  which,  to  a great  extent,  belongs  to  the  former 
month.  2.  The  Day  of  Atonement  is  not  to  fall  on  the 
day  before  or  alter  the  Sabbath;  and,  3.  That  the  Ho- 
sanna Day  is  not  to  be  on  a Sabbath.  It  is  impossible 
now  to  say  with  certainty  how  much  of  this  calendar  is 
Hilld’s  own,  and  how  much  he  took  from  the  national 
traditions,  since  it  is  beyond  question  that  some  astro- 
nomical rules  wrere  handed  down  by  the  presidents. 
This  calendar  Hillel  introduced  A.D.  359.”  A similar- 
ity of  names  has  caused  him  to  be  considered  as  the  au- 
thor of  a MS.  copy  of  the  O.  T.,  which  was  preserved 
until  the  close  of  the  13th  century,  and  was  used  to  cor- 
rect later  copies.  lie  died  towards  the  close  of  the  4th 
century.  — Rossi,  Dizion.  storico  degli  Autori  Ebrei,  p. 
170, 171 ; Wolf,  Biblioth.  Ilebraica  ; Hoefer,  Nottv.  Biog. 
Generate , xxiv,  688 ; Etheridge,  Introd.  Ilebr.  Lit.  p.  138 ; 
Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  iv,  386  sq. ; Kitto,  Cyclop,  of  Bib. 
Lit.  ii,  305.  (J.  H.W.) 

Hiller,  Matthias,  a German  Protestant  theolo- 
gian and  Orientalist,  was  born  at  Stuttgard  Feb.  15, 1646. 
lie  became  professor  of  logic  and  metaphysics  in  1692, 
and  of  Oriental  languages  and  theology  in  1698.  In 
1716  he  exchanged  these  offices  for  the  priory  of  Kbn- 
igsbronn,  where  he  died,  Feb.  11,  1725.  He  acquired 
great  reputation  by  his  works  on  philology  and  herme- 
neutics. lie  wrote  Sciagraphia  Grammatical  Hebra’ce  : 
— Lexicon  Latino-IIebra'icum  (1685) : — De  Arcano  Keri 
et  Kethib  (Tubing.  1692,  8vo),  on  the  accentuation  and 
punctuation  of  the  Bible: — lnstitutiones  Lingum  Sanctw 
(several  times  reprinted,  as  Tubing.  1760,  8vo) : — Ono- 
masticon  Sacrum  (Tubingen,  1706,  4to,  trail  si.  into  Ger- 
man by  himself)  : — Syntagmata  hermcneutica  qnibus  loca 
S.  Script urce  plnrim a ex  Ilebraico  textu  note  explicantur 
(Tubingen,  1711,  4to) : — Hieroglyphicum : — De  Origine 
Gentium  Celticarum : — De  Origine , diis  et  terra.  Palces- 
linorum: — De  Plantis  in  S.  Script ura  memoratis : — lli- 
erophyticon  (Utrecht,  1725,  4to).  See  Fabricius,  I list. 
Biblioth.  vi,  44  ; Ersch  und  Gruber,  Ally.  Encyklopddie ; 
Hoefer,  None.  Biog.  Generate,  xxiv,  689.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Hiller.  Philip  Frederick,  one  of  the  best  and 
most  prolific  hymn  writers  of  the  Evangelical  Church  of 
Southern  Germany,  was  born  at  Miihlhausen  in  1699; 
educated  under  J.  A.  Bengel ; became  pastor  at  two  or 
three  little  villages,  and  dually  at  Steinheim  in  1732; 
lost  Ins  voice  in  1751,  and  died  in  1769.  After  his  re- 
tirement from  the  pulpit  he  devoted  himself  especially 
to  sacred  poetry,  and  produced  over  1000  hymns,  many 
of  which  have  great  excellencies.  It  is  said  that,  next 
to  the  Bible,  his  spiritual  songs  are  perhaps  the  most 
widely  circulated  book  m Wiirtemberg  (Hurst’s  Hagen- 
bach).  A complete  edition  appeared  at  Reutlingen  in 
1844  and  1851. — Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.\ohvi ; liagen- 


bach,  I list,  of  the  1 8th  and.  19 th  Centuries  (translated  by 
Hurst),  ii,  393 ; Winkworth,  Christian  Singers  of  Germa- 
ny, p.  278. 

Killhouse,  Augustus  L.,  author  of  the  beautiful 
hymn  beginning  “ Trembling  before  thine  awful  throne,” 
was  born  at  New  Haven,  Conn.,  about  1792,  and  died  in 
Paris  March  14,  1859.  He  was  a younger  brother  of 
James  A.  Hillhouse,  the  poet. — New  Englander,  xviii, 
557. 

Hilliard,  Timothy,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
born  in  1746  in  Kensington,  N.  H.  He  graduated  at 
Harvard  College  in  1764,  and  in  1768  was  appointed  tu- 
tor, in  which  position  he  remained  until  1771,  when  he 
was  ordained  pastor  at  Barnstable.  This  charge  he  re- 
signed April,  1783,  and  was  installed  co-pastor  at  Cam- 
bridge Oct.  27,  where  he  remained  until  his  death,  May 
9, 1790.  He  published  the  Dudleian  Lecture  at  Har- 
vard College  (1788),  and  several  occasional  sermons. — 
Sprague,  Annals,  i,  660. 

Hillyer,  Asa,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minister,  was 
born  in  Sheffield,  Mass.,  April  6, 1763;  entered  Yale  Col- 
lege in  1782,  and  graduated  in  1786.  He  was  licensed 
to  preach  by  the  old  Presbytery  of  Suffolk,  L.  I.,  in  1788, 
and  was  appointed  to  the  churches  at  Connecticut  Farms 
and  Bottle  Hill  (now  Madison,  N.  J.,  the  seat  of  the 
Drew  Theological  Seminary),  and  shortly  after  (Sept. 
29, 1789)  was  ordained  and  installed  as  pastor  at  the  lat- 
ter place.  In  the  summer  of  1801  he  accepted  an  invi- 
tation to  the  church  in  Orange,  “one  of  the  largest  and 
most  influential  in  the  state.”  Here  he  labored  with 
great  acceptance  and  success  for  more  than  thirty  years. 
In  1818  he  received  the  degree  of  D.D.  from  Alleghany 
College.  In  the  disruption  of  the  Presbyterian  Church 
(1837),  Dr.  Hillyer  sided  with  the  New  School.  “But, 
though  he  regarded  the  division  as  an  miwise  measure, 
it  never  disturbed  his  pleasant  relations  with  those  of 
his  brethren  whose  views  and  action  in  reference  to  it 
differed  from  his  own”  (G.N.  Judd, in  Sprague's  Annals'). 
He  was  a trustee  of  the  College  of  New  Jersey  from  181 1 
to  his  death,  and  from  1812  until  the  division  of  the 
General  Assembly  one  of  the  first  directors  of  the  theo- 
logical seminary  at  Princeton.  This  school,  too,  he  re- 
garded to  the  last  with  undiminished  interest. — Tuttle, 
(Ptev.  Samuel  L.),  History  of  the  Presbyterian  Church, 
Madison,  N.  J.  p.  39  sq. ; Sprague,  A nnals  of  the  Amer- 
ican Pulpit , iii,  533.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hinierius  (lyipioc),  a celebrated  Greek  sophist  and 
rhetorician,  was  born  at  Prana,  in  Bithynia,  A.D.  315. 
He  received  his  education  of  Pro:ercsius,  whose  rival  he 
afterwards  became.  After  travelling  considerably  in  the 
East,  he  settled  in  Athens  as  teacher  of  rhetoric.  He 
became  very  famous  in  his  profession,  having  among  his 
pupils  Basil,  Gregory  of  Nazianzcn,  and  other  distin- 
guished men.  The  emperor  Julian, during  his  visit  at 
Athens,  A.D.  355,  attracted  by  his  learning  and  eloquence, 
invited  him  to  his  court  at  Antioch,  and  made  him  his 
secretary  (A.D.  362).  After  the  death  of  his  rival,  Fro- 
tercsius,  in  A.D.  368,  he  returned  to  Athens  and  resumed 
his  former  calling.  He  became  blind  toward  the  close 
of  his  life,  anel  dieel  in  a fit  of  epilepsy  A.D.  386.  Ilime- 
rius  was  a pagan,  but  exceedingly  kind  towards  the 
Christians.  Of  his  works,  only  a part  are  now  extant. 
— Lardner,  l For  As  ; Smith,  Diet.  Greek  and  Born.  Mythol. 
ii ; Pierer,  Universal  Lex.  viii,  383 ; Hoefer,  Nour.  Biog. 
Generate,  xxiv. 

Hinierius,  bishop  of  Tarragona,  Spain,  known  by  a 
letter  which  was  adelressed  to  him  by  Siricius,  bishop  of 
Rome  (385-398),  and  in  which  the  latter  arrogates  su- 
preme ecclesiastical  authority,  and  seeks  by  flattery  to 
gain  Himerius’s  consent  to  his  pretensions.  See  Hard, 
Condi,  i,  848 ; J.  A.  Cramer,  additions  to  Bossuet,  iv.  597. 
— Herzog,  Ileal- Emykiop.  vi,  98,  99.  The  Roman  Cath- 
olic views  may  be  seen  in  Wetzir  u.  Welte,  Kirchen-Lex- 
ikon,\,  197  sq.  See  Siricius. 

Himyarites  (by  the  classics  called  Ilomerites  or 
Ilomeirites),  an  Arabian  people,  claiming  to  be  descend- 


IIIX 


259 


IIIXCMAR 


ants  of  Himyar,  a grandson  of  Saba,  one  of  the  mythic- 
al fathers  of  the  Arabians,  who  is  said  to  have  been  a 
prince  in  South  Arabia  about  3000  before  Moham- 
med’s time.  They  established  in  that  part  of  Arabia 
some  very  flourishing  towns,  including  Saba  and  Aden 
(Athana),  the  former  noted  more  especially  from  its 
mention  in  the  Bible,  and  extended  their  dominion 
nearly  over  the  entire  coast  of  South  Africa.  At  the 
time  of  Constantine  the  Great  this  people  inclined  to 
Christianity,  but  in  529  they  were  subjected  by  the  Ethi- 
opians, and  were  obliged  to  forsake  their  Christian  faith. 
About  seventy  years  later  the  Persians  took  the  most 
important  cities  from  the  Himyarites,  and  in  A.D.  629 
they  were  subjected  to  the  Mohammedans,  and  em- 
braced Islamism.  The  llimyarites  had  a language  of 
their  own  [see  Arabic  Language],  the  so  called  Ilim- 
yaritic,  of  which  traces  have  lately  been  found  in  the 
ancient  remains  to  which  the  Oriental  scholar  Gcsenius, 
and,  later,  Rodigcr,  have  given  much  study.  Of  late 
Osiander  has  undertaken  this  task,  and  apparently  has 
been  much  more  successful.  The  results  of  his  investi- 
gations are  found  in  Zeitschnft  der deutschen  Morgeiddnd. 
Gesellsch.  (vol.  x and  xix,  Lpz.  1856  and  1865). — Brock- 
liaus,  Conr.-Lex.  vii,  929.  See  Jews. 

Hin  Cpfl,  hin,  Sept,  tiv,  iv,  or  vv ),  a measure  of 
liquids,  containing  the  seventh  part  of  a “ bath”  (Numb, 
xv,  4 sq.;  xxviii,  5,  7, 14;  Ezek.  iv,  11),  i.  e.  twelve  Ro- 
man sextarii,  according  to  Josephus  (fiV,  Ant.  iii,  8, 3 ; 
ix,  4),  or  about  five  quarts.  The  word  corresponds  with 
the  Egyptian  hn,  hno,  which  properly  signifies  a vessel, 
and  then  a small  measure,  sextarius,  Greek  "ivov  (see 
Leemans,  Lettre  a Salvolini,  p.  154;  Bbckh,  Metrolog. 
Unlersuch.  p.  244,  260).  But  it  is  not  certain  that  the 
Hebrew  and  English  measures  were  of  the  same  size. — 
Gcsenius.  According  to  the  Rabbins,  the  hin  contains 
only  the  sixth  part  of  the  bath.  See  Measure. 

HinchclilFe,  Joiix,  D.D.,  was  born  in  Westminster 
in  1731.  lie  was  educated  at  Westminster  School  and 
Trinity  College,  Cambridge.  In  1764  he  was  appointed 
head  master  of  Westminster  Seminary,  in  1766  vicar  of 
Greenwich,  and  in  1769  bishop  of  Peterborough.  Hinch- 
cliffe  was  a man  of  sound  scholarship,  and  especially  cel- 
ebrated as  an  orator  both  in  the  pulpit  and  in  the  forum. 
He  died  in  1794.  He  only  published  three  sermons  de- 
livered on  public  occasions.  A collection  of  his  Sermons 
(London,  1796,  8vo)  is  not  without  merit,  but  they  cer- 
tainly did  not  meet  the  expectations  of  his  contempo- 
raries.— TIook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  73 ; Allibone,  Diet,  of  A u- 
thors,  i,  850. 

Hinckelmann,  Abraham,  a distinguished  German 
theologian  and  Orientalist,  born  at  Doebeln,  near  Ham- 
burg, May  2, 1652,  was  educated  at  the  University  of  Wit- 
tenberg. After  filling  several  important  appointments 
as  minister,  he  was,  in  1687,  made  court  preacher  to  the 
landgrave  of  Hesse-Darinstadt,and  honorary  professor  at 
the  University  of  Giessen.  But  in  the  year  immediate- 
ly following  he  resigned  these  positions  and  returned  to 
Hamburg.  Here  he  was  accused  by  some  ministers  of 
sympathy  with  Millenarians  and  Pietists,  which  so 
wrought  upon  his  constitution  and  mind  that  he  died  af- 
ter a short  illness,  February  11, 1695.  Among  his  works 
are  especially  worthy  of  note,  Sgttoge  rocum  et  phrasum 
rabbinicarum  obscuriorum  (Liibeck,  1675,  4to)  : — J)e 
Scholiis  Hebrceomm : — De  Saci'ificiis  Hebr. : — Testament, 
et  pactiones  inter  Muhammedem  et  Christiana;  fdei  Cul- 
tores  (Arab,  and  Lat.,  Hamb.  1690,  4to).  lie  published 
also  .1  Icoran,  really  the  first  edition  of  the  Koran,  as  that 
of  Paganini  (Ven.  1530)  was  almost  wholly  destroyed  by 
order  of  the  pope.  He  also  left  in  MS.  Lexicon  arabico- 
latinum  in  Alcoranum. — Jocher,  .1  llgem.  Gelekrt.  Lex.  ii, 
1612;  H oefe r,  A rou v.  Biog.  Gen.  xx iv,  7 05  sq.  (J.  II . W.) 

Hinckley,  John,  D.D.,  an  English  clergyman,  was 
bom  in  Warwickshire  in  1617,  and  was  educated  at  St. 
Alban’s  Hall,  Oxford.  He  filled  successively  the  vicar- 
ate  of  Coleshill,  Berkshire,  and  the  rectorships  of  Dray- 


ton, Leicestershire,  and  Nortlifield,  Worcestershire.  He 
died  in  1695.  He  published  Four  Sermons  (Oxf.  1657, 

8vo) : — Epistola  I ' erulica  (1659,  4to) : — Persuasive  to 
Conformity  (1670, 8vo),  addressed  in  the  form  of  a letter 
to  the  Dissenters: — Fasciculus  liter  arum,  or  Letters  on 
several  Occasions  (1680,  8vo).  The  first  half  contains 
letters  exchanged  between  him  and  Richard  Baxter  on 
the  divisions  in  the  Church. — Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  74; 
Iloefer,  A ’our.  Biog.  Gener.  xxiv,  706;  Allibone,  Diet,  of 
A uthors,  i,  850. 

Hincks,  Edward,  I).I).,  a clergyman  of  the 
Church  of  England,  and  a distinguished  Assyrian  scliol-  y 
ar,  was  born  in  August,  1792,  and  was  prepared  for  college 
under  his  father’s  care.  He  entered  Trinity  College, 
Dublin,  at  a very  early  age,  and  obtained  a fellowship 
before  he  was  twenty-one,  being  facile  princeps  of  all 
the  candidates.  After  graduation  he  became  rector  of 
Ardtrea,  one  of  the  college  livings,  whence  he  was  pro- 
moted to  Killvleagh,  in  the  diocese  of  Down  (north  of 
Ireland),  and  there  he  spent  the  last  forty-one  years  of 
his  life.  Dr.  Hincks  was  considered  one  of  the  best  phi- 
lologists in  Europe.  He  contributed  numerous  valuable 
papers,  especially  on  Egyptian  hieroglyphics  and  Assyr- 
ian cuneiform  inscriptions,  to  the  Royal  Irish  Academy, 
the  Royal  Society  of  Literature,  the  Asiatic  Society,  and 
the  British  Association.  “ llis  talent  for  deciphering 
texts  in  unknown  characters  and  languages  was  wonder- 
ful. It  was  applied  to  the  study  of  Egyptian  hieroglyph- 
ics, and  to  the  inscriptions  in  the  cuueiform  character 
found  in  Persepolis,  Nineveh,  and  other  parts  of  ancient 
Assyria.  In  this  field  especially  he  labored  for  years  with 
great  perseverance  and  success,  having  been  the  first  to 
ascertain  the  numeral  system,  and  the  power  and  form 
of  its  signs  by  means  of  the  inscriptions  at  Van.  He 
was  one  of  the  chief  restorers  of  Assyrian  learning,  throw- 
ing great  light  on  the  linguistic  character  and  grammat- 
ical structure  of  the  languages  represented  on  the  As- 
syrian monuments.  Living  in  a remote  country  vil- 
lage, with  very  limited  means  at  his  command,  he  had 
to  contend  with  great  difficulties.  In  London,  beside 
the  British  Museum,  he  would  have  accomplished  more 
than  he  did”  ( London  Athenceum,  December,  1866).  He 
died  December  3, 1866.  See  Cuneiform  Inscriptions  ; 
Hieroglyphics.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hincks,  John,  a Unitarian  minister,  born  in  Cork, 
Ireland,  in  1804,  was  educated  at  Trinity  College,  Dub- 
lin, and  the  Belfast  Academical  Institution,  and  in  1827 
was  called  to  a Unitarian  Church  at  Liverpool,  lie  died 
in  1831.  The  only  published  writings  of  his  are  Ser- 
mons and  occasional  services,  with  Memoir  bg  J.  11.  Thorn 
(Lond.  1832, 8vo). — Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliog.  i,  1484 ; Al- 
libone, Diet,  of  A uthors,  i,  850. 

Hincmar  of  Laon  was  nephew  of  Hincmar,  arch- 
bishop of  Rlieims,  who  at  first  patronized  him,  and  had 
him  elected  bishop  of  Laon,  about  A.D.  856.  He  soon 
showed  an  obstinate  and  refractory  spirit;  set  at  naught 
his  uncle,  who  was  his  metropolitan ; rebelled  against  his 
king,  and  scorned  the  decrees  of  synods,  whose  sentence 
of  condemnation  he  for  some  time  avoided  bv  appealing 
to  Rome;  but  at  length  he  was  summoned,  heard,  con- 
demned, and  deposed  from  his  see  of  Laon.  1 le  was 
also  imprisoned  and  his  eyes  cruelly  put  out,  A.D.  871. 

Two  years  later,  at  the  Council  of  Troyes,  he  obtained 
access  to  the  pope,  who  reinstated  him,  assigned  him  a 
portion  of  the  episcopal  revenues,  and  permitted  him 
even  to  resume  his  pontifical  functions  in  part.  He  died 
about  A.D.  880.  He  wrote  many  Letters,  etc.,  which  are 
lost;  but  a few  may  be  found  with  his  life,  defence, etc., 
in  Labbe,  Concil.  tom.  vii,  and  in  Sirmond’s  edition  of  the 
works  of  Hincmar  of  Rlieims  (q.  v.).  See  Clarke,  Suc- 
cession of  Sacred  Literature,  vol.  ii ; Cellot,  T7e  d'Hincmar 
de  Laon ; Biddle,  Hist,  of  the  Papacy , ii,  24-27 ; Xeander, 
Church  Hist,  iii,  364;  Wetzer  lind  Welte,  Kirchen- Lex. 
v,  208 ; Illgen,  Zeitsch.f.  d.  Hist.  Tkeol.  1858,  p.  227. 

Hincmar,  archbishop  of  Rlieims,  one  of  the  most 
learned  divines  of  his  age,  was  bom  about  A.D.  809,  of 


HIND 


260 


HINDUISM 


a noble  family,  related  to  the  counts  of  Toulouse,  and 
was  educated  in  the  Monastery  of  St.  Denys,  near  Paris. 
After  finishing  his  studies  he  was  summoned  to  the 
court  of  Louis  le  Debonnaire,  to  whom  he  faithfully  ad- 
hered, and  who  employed  him,  after  his  restoration,  in 
settling  the  ecclesiastical  affairs  of  the  empire;  after 
this  he  retired  to  his  monastery,  whence  he  was  again 
summoned  into  public  life  by  being  chosen  archbishop 
of  Kheinis,  A.D.  845.  On  the  accession  of  Lothaire,  an 
attempt  was  made  to  depose  him  from  his  see,  without 
success.  He  was  a zealous  supporter  of  the  rights  of  the 
Galliean  Church.  In  847  the  controversy  with  Gotts- 
chalk  (Godesehalcus)  (q.  v.)  about  predestination  arose, 
and  when  the  case  of  Gottsehalk  came  before  him,  he 
drove  it  on  with  too  great  heat,  and  Gotteschalk  by  his 
means  was  condemned  and  punished  with  much  and 
unjust  severity.  One  of  the  most  important  events  in 
Hinemar’s  life  was  his  controversy  in  802  with  pope 
Nicholas  I,  one  of  the  most  learned  men  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church.  Rothadius,  bishop  of  Soissons,  and 
suffragan  of  Ilinemar,  deposed  a priest  of  his  diocese, 
who  appealed  to  Ilinemar  as  metropolitan,  and  was  or- 
dered by  him  to  be  restored  to  office.  Rothadius,  who 
resisted  this  order,  was,  in  consequence,  condemned  and 
excommunicated  by  the  archbishop.  He  appealed  to 
the  pope,  who  at  once  ordered  Ilinemar  to  restore  Ro- 
thadius,  or  to  appear  at  Rome  either  in  person  or  by  his 
representative,  to  vindicate  the  sentence.  He  sent  a 
legate  to  Rome,  but  refused  to  restore  the  deposed  bish- 
op ; whereupon  Nicholas  annulled  the  sentence,  and  re- 
quired that  the  cause  should  have  another  hearing,  and 
this  time  in  Rome.  Ilinemar,  after  some  dcmurral,  was 
forced  to  acquiesce.  The  cause  of  Rothadius  was  re- 
examined, and  he  was  acquitted  anil  restored  to  his  see. 
But  perhaps  more  historically  interesting  is  Hinemar’s 
opposition  to  the  temporal  power  of  the  mediaeval  papacy. 
See  Papacy.  Under  the  successor  of  Nicholas,  Adrian 
II,  the  succession  to  the  sovereignty  of  Lorraine  on  the 
death  of  king  Lothaire  was  questioned ; the  pope  favor- 
ed the  pretensions  of  the  emperor  Louis  in  opposition  to 
those  of  Charles  the  Bold  of  France.  Adrian  addressed 
a mandate  to  the  subjects  of  Charles  and  to  the  nobles 
of  Lorraine,  accompanied  by  a menace  of  the  censure 
of  the  Church.  To  this  Hincmar  offered  a firm  and 
persistent  opposition.  He  was  equally  firm,  ten  years 
later,  in  resisting  the  undue  extension  of  the  royal  pre- 
rogative in  ecclesiastical  affairs.  Louis  III,  in  opposi- 
tion to  the  judgment  of  the  Council  of  Vienne,  wished  to 
bestow  upon  his  favorite,  Odoacer,  the  see  of  Beauvais ; 
but  Hincmar  boldly  remonstrated,  and  fearlessly  de- 
nounced the  attempt  as  an  unjustifiable  usurpation. 
He  died  A.D.  882.  His  works  consist  chiefly  of  Letters 
about  local  ecclesiastical  affairs,  and  his  treatise  De  Prce- 
destinatione  Dei  et  libero  arbitrin , and  small  tracts  on 
discipline.  A former  treatise  of  his,  De  Preedest.,  is  lost. 
In  the  controversy  with  Gottsehalk  he  maintained  that 
“God  wills  the  salvation  of  all  men;  that  some  -will  be 
saved  through  the  gift  of  divine  grace;  that  others  are 
lost,  owing  to  their  demerit ; Christ  suffered  for  all ; 
whoever  does  not  appropriate  these  sufferings  has  him- 
self to  blame.”  All  his  remains  are  to  be  found  in  the 
careful  edition  of  his  works  edited  by  Sirmond,  Opera , 
duos  in  tomos  diyesta , etc.  (Paris,  1G45,  2 vols.  fob).  See 
Noorden,  llinlmar , Erzbischof  v.  Rheims  (Bonn,  ISOS') ; 
Cave,  Hist.  Lift. ; Mosheim,  Ch.  History , cent,  ix,  pt.  ii, 
ch.  ii,  n.  52 ; Hagen  bach.  Hist,  of Doctrines , ii,  50 ; Flodo- 
aril, Ecclesirc  Remensis  Hist.;  Gallia  Christiana,  ix,  39; 
Hist,  litter,  de  la  France,  v,  544  sq. ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Dior/. 
Generate,  xxiv,  706  sq. ; Neander,  History  of  Doymas,  ii, 
454 ; Riddle,  History  of  the  Papaq/,  ii ; Milman,  Lot. 
Christianity,  iii,  51  et  al ; iv,  84 ; Illgen,  Zeitsch.f  d.  Hist. 
Theol.  1859,  p.  478;  Iiefele  (Rom.  Catli.)  in  Wetzer  u. 
Welte,  Kirchen-Lexikon,  v,  203. 

Hind  (!"&*X,  ayalah',  Gen.  xlix,  21 ; 2 Sam.  xxii, 
34;  Job  xxxiv,  1 ; Psa.  xviii,  33;  xxix,  9;  Cant,  ii,  7 ; 
iii,  5;  Ilab.  iii,  19;  or  aye'leth,  Prov.  v,  19;  Jer. 


xiv,  5;  “Aijaleth,”  Psa.  xxii,  title),  the  female  of  the 
hart  or  stag,  “ doe”  being  the  female  of  the  fallow-deer, 
and  “ roe”  being  sometimes  used  for  that  of  the  roebuck. 
All  the  females  of  the  Cervidre,  with  the  exception  of 
the  reindeer,  are  hornless.  See  Deer.  The  hind  is  fre- 
quently noticed  in  the  poetical  parts  of  Seripture  as  em- 
blematic of  activity  (Gen.  xlix,  21;  2 Sam.  xxii,  34; 
Psa.  xviii,  33 ; llab.  iii,  1 9),  gentleness  (Prov.  v,  19),  fem- 
inine modesty  (Cant,  ii,  7 ; iii,  5),  earnest  longing  (Psa. 
xlii,  1),  and  maternal  affeetion  (Jer.  xiv,  5).  Its  shy- 
ness and  remoteness  from  the  haunts  of  men  are  also 
noticed  (Job  xxxix,  1),  and  its  timidity,  causing  it  to 
cast  its  young  at  the  sound  of  thunder  (Psa.  xxix,  9). 
The  conclusion  which  some  have  drawn  from  the  pas- 
sage last  quoted,  that  the  hind  produces  her  young  with 
great  difficulty,  is  not,  in  reality,  dedncible  from  the 
words,  and  is  expressly  contradicted  by  Job  xxxix,  3. 
It  may  be  remarked  on  Psa.  xviii,  33,  and  llab.  iii,  19, 
where  the  Lord  is  said  to  cause  the  feet  to  stand  firm 
like  those  of  a hind  on  high  places,  that  this  representa- 
tion is  in  perfect  harmony  with  the  habits  of  mountain 
stags;  but  the  version  of  Prov.  v,  19,  “Let  the  wife  of 
thy  bosom  be  as  the  beloved  hind  and  favorite  roe,” 
seems  to  indicate  that  here  the  words  are  generalized  so 
as  to  include  under  roe  monogamous  speeies  of  ante- 
lopes, whose  affections  and  eonsortship  are  permanent 
and  strong;  for  stags  are  polygamous.  The  Sept,  reads 
rsS^IS;  in  Gen.  xlix,  21, rendering  it  ariXfxog  dveipirov, 
“a  luxuriant  terebinth,”  an  emendation  adopted  by  Bo- 
chart.  Lowth  has  proposed  a similar  change  in  Tsa. 
xxix,  but  in  neither  case  can  the  emendation  be  accept- 
ed. Naphtali  verified  the  comparison  of  himself  to  a 
“graceful  or  tall  hind”  by  the  events  recorded  in  Judg. 
iv,  6-9;  v,  18.  The  inscription  of  Psa.  xxii,  “the  hind 
of  the  morning,”  probably  refers  to  a tune  of  that  name. 
— Kitto;  Smith.  See  Aijeletii. 

Hindostan.  See  India. 

Hinds,  Samuel,  bishop  of  Norwich,  was  bom  about 
1798,  on  the  isle  of  Barbadoes.  At  an  early  age  he  was 
sent  to  England,  and  educated  at  Oxford.  In  1822  he 
took  orders  in  the  Church  of  England,  and  in  1849  he 
w as  appointed  bishop  of  Norwich.  Later,  he  was  made 
vice  principal  of  St.  Alban’s  Hall,  Oxford.  lie  died  in 
1870.  Bishop  Hinds  wrote  The  three  Temples  of  the 
true  God  contrasted  (1830;  3d  edit.  1857,8vo)  : — Dispira- 
tion  and  Authority  of  Script.  (1831,  8vo): — Script,  and 
the  Authorized  Version  of  Script.  (1853, 12mo) : — Cate- 
chist's Manual  (2d  ed.  1855, 12mo)  : — Hist,  of  Christian- 
ity (1829, 1846, 1850, 1853,  2 vols.  8vo),  which  wTas  orig- 
inally contributed  to  the  Encyclop.  Mctropolitana. — Al- 
libone,  Diet,  of  British  and  A merican  A nthors,  i,  850 ; Ya- 
pereau,  Diet,  des  Contemporains,  p.  884.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hinduism  or  Hindu  religion,  the  name  of  the 
variety  of  creeds  derived  from  Brahmanic  sources.  It  is 
the  religion  of  the  East,  professed,  in  some  form  or  an- 
other, by  nearly  half  of  the  human  race  (see  Max  Muller, 
Chips  from  a German  Workshop , i,  23),  especially  if 


HINDUISM 


261 


HINDUISM 


Buddhism  (q.v.)  is  included,  or  considered  as  a devel- 
opment of  it.  The  different  sects  into  which  the  Hin- 
dus (on  the  origin  of  the  Hindus,  and  their  gradual 
occupation  of  India,  see  Lassen,  Ind.  Altcrth.  i,  511  sq. ; 
M iiller,  Science  of  Language,  p.  240  sq. ; Donaldson,  New 
Cratylus , p.  1 18, 119, 2d  ed. ; Hardwick,  Christ  and  other 
Masters,  i,  171,  172,  2d  ed.)  are  divided  at  present  are 
of  modern  origin,  and  the  system  of  theology  taught  by 
them  differs  very  much  from  the  religion  of  their  fore- 
fathers. 

I.  / history . — For  brevity’s  sake,  we  will  divide  Hindu- 
ism into  three  great  periods,  the  Vedic,  Epic,  and  1‘uran- 
ic.  Our  knowledge  of  the  first  is  derived  from  the  sacred 
books  of  the  Hindus,  the  Veda  (q.  v.);  that  of  the  sec- 
ond from  the  epic  poem  Bamuyana,  and  the  great  epos 
Mahabharata;  and  that  of  the  third  chiefly  from  the 
mythological  works,  the  I’uranas  and  Tantras. 

1.  The  Vedic  Period. — According  to  the  hymns  of  the 
Veda,  the  Hindus  of  that  period  regarded  the  elements 
of  nature  as  heavenly  beings,  and  worshipped  and  re- 
vered them  as  such.  Among  these  were  first  in  order 
Agni,  the  fire  of  the  sun  and  lightning;  Indra , the 
bright,  cloudless  firmament;  the  Maruts,  or  winds; 
Surya,  the  sun  ; Ushas , the  dawn  ; and  various  kindred 
manifestations  of  the  luminous  bodies,  and  nature  in 
general.  “They  are  supplicated  to  confer  temporal 
blessings  upon  the  worshipper,  riches,  life,  posterity — 
the  shortsighted  vanities  of  human  desire,  which  con- 
stituted the  sum  of  heathen  prayer  in  all  heathen  coun- 
tries” (Wilson,  Lectures,  p.  9,  10).  The  great  contrast 
in  this  particular  between  heathen  and  Christian  wor- 
shippers has  been  well  commented  upon  by  Stuhr  (7iY- 
ligions-Systeme  d.  keulnischen  Yulker  d.  Orients,  Einleit. 
p.  xii).  Indeed,  it  is  a fact  worthy  the  notice  of  philos- 
ophers and  of  scholars  in  comparative  science  of  religion 
that  only  a very  small  fraction  of  heathen  prayers  are 
offered  for  spiritual  or  moral  benefits  (compare  Creuzcr, 
Symbolik,  iv,  162;  Hardwick,  Christ  and  other  Masters, 
i,  181,  182).  “We  proclaim  eagerly,  Maruts,  your  an- 
cient greatness,  for  the  sake  of  inducing  your  prompt 
appearance,  as  the  indication  of  (the  approach  of)  the 
showerer  of  benefits;”  or,  “Offer  your  nutritious  viands 
to  the  great  hero  (indra},  who  is  pleased  by  praise,  and 
to  Vishnu  (one  of  the  forms  of  the  sun),  the  two  invin- 
cible deities  who  ride  upon  the  radiant  summit  of  the 
clouds  as  upon  a well-trained  steed.  Indra  and  Vishnu, 
the  devout  worshipper  glorifies  the  radiant  approach  of 
you  two  who  are  the  granters  of  desires,  and  who  be- 
stow upon  the  mortal  who  worships  you  an  immediate- 
ly receivable  (reward),  through  the  distribution  of  that 
fire  which  is  the  scatterer  (of  desired  blessings).”  Such 
is  the  strain  in  which  the  Hindu  of  that  period  ad- 
dressed his  gods.  Ethical  considerations  are  foreign 
to  these  religious  outbursts  of  the  mind.  Sin  and 
evil,  indeed,  are  often  adverted  to,  and  the  gods  are 
praised  because  they  destroy  sinners  and  evil-doers; 
but  one  would  err  in  associating  with  these  words  our 
notions  of  sin  or  wrong.  A sinner,  in  these  hymns,  is 
a man  who  does  not  address  praises  to  those  elementary 
deities,  or  who  does  not  gratify  them  with  the  oblations 
they  receive  at  the  hands  of  the  believer.  He  is  the 
foe,  the  robber,  the  daemon — in  short,  the  borderer  in- 
festing the  territory  of  the  “pious”  man,  who,  in  his 
turn,  injures  and  kills,  but,  in  adoring  Agni,  Indra,  and 
their  kin,  is  satisfied  that  he  can  commit  no  evil  act. 

Neither  did  the  Hindu  in  that  early  period  so  fre- 
quently evince  his  consciousness  of  imperfection  by  a 
display  of  animal  sacrifices.  Idie  Veda  contains  not  a 
single  example  of  human  victims  for  sacrifice.  I* in- 
forms us  that  by  far  the  most  common  offering  was  the 
fermenting  juice  of  the  soma  (q.  v.)  or  moon  plant.  , 
which,  expressed  and  fermented,  made  an  exhilarating  j 
and  inebriating  beverage,  and  for  this  reason,  most  prob-  j 
ably,  was  offered  to  the  gods  to  increase  their  beneficial  I 
potency.  In  this  the  Hindu  afterwards  beheld  a vital 
sap  whereby  the  universe  itself  is  made  productive;! 
but,  in  bringing  such  an  oblation,  it  is  more  likely  | 


that  he  was  actuated  by  the  hope  of  gratifying  the  an- 
imal wants  of  his  divinity  rather  than  by  the  idea  of 
deepening  his  own  sense  of  guilt,  or  by  a desire  to  com- 
pensate for  his  own  demerit  (compare  Hardwick,  i,  183). 
Besides  this,  another  oblation,  mentioned  as  agreeable 
to  the  gods,  and  likely  to  belong  to  this  early  period  of 
Veda  worship,  was  clarified  butter,  poured  upon  the  fire. 
There  is,  however,  a class  of  hymns  in  the  Veda  in  which 
“this  distinctive  utterance  of  feeling  makes  room  for 
the  language  of  speculation,”  in  which  “the  allegories 
of  poetry  yield  to  the  mysticism  of  the  reflecting  mind, 
and  the  mysteries  of  nature  becoming  more  keenly  felt, 
the  circle  of  beings  which  overawe  the  popular  mind 
becomes  enlarged”  (Chambers,  Encyclopaedia,  i,  541). 
The  objects  by  which  Indra,  Agni,  and  the  other  deities 
are  propitiated  now  become  gods.  Thus,  for  example, 
one  whole  section  of  the  Big- Veda,  the  principal  part 
of  the  Veda  (q.  v.),  is  addressed  to  Soma  (see  above). 
Still  more  prominent  is  the  deification  of  Soma  in  the 
Siima-Veda  (comp.  Hardwick,  Christ,  i,  178,  179;  M id- 
ler, Chips,  i,  176). 

But  in  the  worship  of  these  powers  of  nature  there  is 
an  inclination,  at  least,  if  not  a real  desire,  to  pay  hom- 
age to  one  higher  being  that  should  prove  the  Creator 
of  all  perishable  and  changeable  beings.  There  ensued, 
so  to  speak,  a struggle  to  reconcile  the  worship  of  the 
elementary  powers  with  the  idea  of  one  supreme  being, 
or  to  emancipate  the  inquiry  into  the  principle  of  crea- 
tion from  the  elementary  religion  as  found  in  the  oldest 
portion  of  Vedic  poetry.  The  former  of  these  efforts  is 
apparent  in  the  Brahmana  of  the  Veda,  the  latter  in  the 
Upanishad  (q.  v.).  In  the  Brahmanas — a second  anil 
later  class  of  Vedic  hymns — we  see  the  simple  and  prim- 
itive worship  become  complex  and  artificial.  A special 
! feature  is  “the  tendency  to  determining  the  rank  of  the 
gods,  and,  as  a consequence,  to  giving  prominence  to  one 
special  god  amongst  the  rest;  whereas  in  the  old  Vedic 
poetry,  though  we  may  discover  a predilection  of  the 
poets  to  bestow  more  praise,  for  instance,  on  Indra  and 
Agni  than  on  other  gods,  yet  we  find  no  intention  on 
i their  part  to  raise  any  of  them  to  a supreme  rank. 
Thus,  in  some  Brahmanas,  Indra,  the  god  of  the  firma- 
ment, is  endowed  with  the  dignity  of  a ruler  of  the  gods ; 
in  others,  the  sun  receives  the  attributes  of  superiority. 
This  is  no  real  solution  of  the  momentous  problem  hint- 
ed at  in  some  Vedic  hymns,  but  it  is  a semblance  of  it. 
There  the  poet  asks  ‘whence  this  varied  world  arose’ — 
here  the  priest  answers  that  ‘one  god  is  more  elevated 
than  the  rest ;’  and  he  is  satisfied  with  regulating  the 
detail  of  the  Soma  and  animal  sacrifice  according  to  the 
rank  which  he  assigns  to  his  deities.  A real  answer  to 
this  great  question  the  theologians  attempt  who  explain 
the  ‘mysterious  doctrine’  held  in  the  utmost  reverence 
by  all  Hindus,  and  laid  down  in  the  writings  known 
under  the  name  of  Upanishads,  which  relate  not  only 
to  the  process  of  creation,  but  to  the  nature  of  a su- 
preme being,  and  its  relation  to  the  human  soul.  In 
the  Upanishads,  Agni,  Indra,  Vayu,  and  the  other  deities 
of  the  Vedic  hymns,  become  symbols  to  assist  the  mind 
in  its  attempt  to  understand  the  true  nature  of  one  ab- 
solute being,  and  the  manner  in  which  it  manifests  it- 
self in  its  worldly  form.  The  human  soul  itself  is  of 
the  same  nature  as  this  supreme  or  great  soul : its  ulti- 
mate destination  is  that  of  becoming  reunited  with  the 
supreme  soul,  and  the  means  of  attaining  that  end  is  not 
the  performance  of  sacrificial  rites,  but  the  comprehen- 
sion of  its  own  self  and  of  the  great  soul.  The  doctrine 
which  at  a later  period  became  the  foundation  of  the 
creed  of  the  educated — the  doctrine  that  the  supreme 
soul,  or  Brahm,  is  the  only  reality,  and  that  the  world 
has  a claim  to  notice  oniv  in  so  far  as  it  emanated 
from  this  being,  is  already  clearly  laid  down  in  these 
Upanishads,  though  the  language  in  which  it  is  ex- 
pressed still  adapts  itself  to  the  legendary  and  allegor- 
ical style  that  characterizes  the  Brahmanic  portion  of 
the  Vedas.  The.  Upanishads  became  thus  the  basis  of  the 
enlightened  faith  of  India.  They  are  not  a system  of 


HINDUISM 


262 


HINDUISM 


philosophy,  hut  they  contain  all  the  germs  whence  the 
three  great  systems  of  Hindu  philosophy  arose;  and 
like  the  latter,  while  revealing  the  struggle  of  the  Hindu 
mind  to  reach  the  comprehension  of  one  supreme  being, 
they  advance  sufficiently  far  to  express  their  belief  in 
such  a being,  but  at  the  same  time  acknowledge  the  in- 
ability of  the  human  mind  to  comprehend  its  essence” 
(Chambers,  Encyclopedia').  See  Upanisiiad. 

The  Veda  also  teaches  the  two  ideas  so  contradictory 
to  the  human  understanding,  and  yet  so  easily  recon- 
ciled in  every  human  heart:  God  has  established  the 
eternal  laws  of  right  and  wrong ; he  punishes  sin  and  re- 
wards virtue;  and  yet  the  same  God  is  willing  to  for- 
give ; just,  yet  merciful ; a judge,  and  yet  a father  (Mul- 
ler, i,  38).  But  there  is  no  trace,  at  least  not  in  the 
Veda,  of  metempsychosis,  which  has  generally  been  sup- 
posed to  be  a distinguishing  feature  of  the  Indian  relig- 
ion, especially  of  the  Vedic  period.  “Instead  of  this, 
we  find  what  is  really  the  sine  qua  non  of  all  real  relig- 
ion, a belief  in  immortality,  and  in  personal  immortality 
. . . . passages  wherein  immortality  of  the  soul, personal 
immortality,  and  personal  responsibility  after  death  are 
clearly  proclaimed”  (M idler,  i,  45).  Professor  Roth  ( Jour- 
nal of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv,  427)  says  that 
we  find  in  the  Veda  “beantifid  conceptions  of  an  im- 
mortality expressed  in  unadorned  language  with  child- 
like conviction.  If  it  were  necessary,  we  might  find 
here  the  most  powerful  weapons  against  the  view  which 
has  lately  been  revived  and  proclaimed  as  new,  that  Per- 
sia was  the  only  birthplace  of  the  idea  of  immortality, 
and  that  even  the  nations  of  Europe  had  derived  it  from 
that  quarter — as  if  the  religious  spirit  of  every  gifted 
race  was  not  able  to  arrive  at  it  by  its  own  strength.” 
We  find  also  in  the  Veda  vague  allusions  to  a place  of 
punishment  for  the  wicked.  “In  one  verse  it  is  said 
that  the  dead  are  rewarded  for  their  good  deeds ; that 
they  leave  or  cast  off  all  evil,  and,  glorified,  take  their  new 
bodies.  ...  A pit  is  mentioned  into  which  the  lawless 
are  said  to  be  hurled  down,  and  into  which  Indra  casts 
those  who  offer  no  sacrifices.  ...  In  one  passage  we  read 
that  ‘those  who  break  the  commandments  of  Varuna, 
and  who  speak  lies,  are  horn  for  that  deep  place’”  (31  id- 
ler, i,  47 ; comp.  Dr.  Muir,  Yama,  in  the  Journal  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society,  p.  10). 

2.  “ The  Epic  period  of  Hinduism  is  marked  by  a simi- 
lar development  of  the  same  creeds,  the  general  features 
of  which  wc  have  traced  in  the  Vedic  writings.  The  pop- 
ular creed  strives  to  find  a centre  round  which  to  group 
its  imaginary  gods,  whereas  the  philosophical  creed 
finds  its  expression  in  the  groundworks  of  the  Sdnkhya , 
Xyuya,  ami  1 '(  Junta  systems  of  philosophy.  In  the  for- 
mer, we  find  two  gods  in  particular  who  are  rising  to 
the  highest  rank, Vishnu  and  Siva;  for  as  to  Ilrahman 
(the  masculine  form  of  Brahm),  though  he  was  looked 
upon  now  and  then  as  superior  to  both,  he  gradually 
disappears,  and  becomes  merged  into  the  philosophical 
Brahma  (the  neuter  form  of  the  same  word),  which  is  a 
further  evolution  of  the  great  soul  of  the  Upanishads. 
In  the  Ramdyana,  the  superiority  of  Vishnu  is  admitted 
without  dispute;  in  the  great  epos,  the  Mahdbharata, 
however,  which,  unlike  the  former  epos,  is  the  product  of 
successive  ages,  there  is  an  apparent  rivalry  between  the 
claims  of  Vishnu  and  Siva  to  occupy  the  highest  rank 
in  the  pantheon ; but  Sanscrit  philology  will  first  have 
to  unravel  the  chronological  position  of  the  various  por- 
tions of  this  work,  to  lay  bare  its  groundwork,  and  to 
show  the  gradual  additions  it  received,  before  it  will  be 
able  to  determine  the  successive  formation  of  the  legends 
which  are  the  basis  of  classical  Hindu  mythology.  Yet 
so  much  seems  to  be  clear  even  already,  that  there  is  a 
predilection  during  this  Epic  period  for  the  supremacy 
of  Vishnu,  and  that  the  policy  of  incorporating  rather 
than  combating  antagonistic  creeds  led  more  to  a quiet 
admission  than  to  a warm  support  of  Siva’s  claims  to 
the  highest  rank.”  For  the  character  of  these  gods,  and 
their  relation  to  the  Vedic  and  the  Epic  period,  see  be- 
low. “ W e will  point,  however,  to  one  remarkable  myth, 


as  it  will  illustrate  the  altered  position  of  the  gods  dur- 
ing the  Epic  period.  In  the  Vedic  hymns,  the  immor- 
tality of  the  gods  is  never  matter  of  doubt;  most  of  the 
elementary  beings  are  invoked  and  described  as  ever- 
lasting, as  liable  neither  to  decay  nor  death.  The  offer- 
ings they  receive  may  add  to  their  comfort  and  strength; 
they  may  invigorate  them,  but  it  is  nowhere  stated  that 
they  are  indispensable  for  their  existence.  It  is,  on  the 
contrary,  the  pious  sacrificer  himself  who,  through  his 
offerings,  secures  to  himself  long  life,  and,  as  it  is  some- 
times hyperbolically  called,  immortality.  The  same  no- 
tion also  prevails  throughout  the  oldest  Bralimanas.  It 
is  only  in  the  latest  work  of  this  class,  the  Satapatha- 
Brahmana,  and  more  especially  in  the  Epic  poems,  that 
we  find  the  inferior  gods  as  mortal  in  the  beginning,  and 
as  becoming  immortal  through  exterior  agency.  In  the 
Satapatha-Brahmana,  the  juice  of  the  soma  plant,  of- 
fered by  the  worshipper,  or  at  another  time  clarified  but- 
ter, or  even  animal  sacrifices,  impart  to  them  this  im- 
mortality. At  the  Epic  period,  Vishnu  teaches  them 
how  to  obtain  the  Amrita,  or  beverage  of  immortality, 
without  which  they  would  go  to  destruction ; and  this 
epic  Amrita  itself  is  merely  a compound,  increased  by 
imagination,  of  the  various  substances  which  in  the  Ve- 
dic writings  are  called  or  likened  to  A mrita,  i.  e.  a ‘ sub- 
stance that  frees  from  death.’  It  is  obvious,  therefore, 
that  gods  like  these  could  not  strike  root  in  the  religious 
mind  of  the  nation.  We  must  look  upon  them  more  as 
the  gods  of  poetry  than  of  real  life;  nor  do  we  find  that 
they  enjoyed  any  of  the  worship  which  was  allotted  to 
the  two  principal  gods,  Vishnu  and  Siva.” 

“The  philosophical  creed  of  this  period  adds  little  to 
the  fundamental  notions  contained  in  the  Upanishads, 
but  it  frees  itself  from  the  legendary  dross  which  still 
imparts  to  those  works  a deep  tinge  of  mysticism.  On 
the  other  hand,  it  conceives  and  develops  the  notion 
that  the  union  of  the  individual  soul  with  the  supreme 
spirit  may  be  aided  by  penances,  such  as  peculiar  modes 
of  breathing,  particular  postures,  protracted  fasting,  and 
the  like ; in  short,  by  those  practices  which  are  system- 
atized by  the  Yoga  doctrine.  The  most  remarkable 
Epic  work  which  inculcates  this  doctrine  is  the  cele- 
brated poem  Bhugacadgita,  which  has  been  wrongly 
considered  by  European  writers  as  a pure  Sankliya  work, 
whereas  Sankara,  the  great  Hindu  theologian,  who 
commented  on  it,  and  other  native  commentators  after 
him,  have  proved  that  it  is  founded  on  the  Yoga  belief. 
The  doctrine  of  the  reunion  of  the  individual  soul  with 
the  supreme  soul  was  necessarily  founded  on  the  as- 
sumption that  the  former  must  have  become  free  from 
| all  guilt  affecting  its  purity  before  it  can  be  remerged 
into  the  source  whence  it  proceeded;  and  since  one  hu- 
' man  life  is  apparently  too  short  for  enabling  the  soul  to 
1 attain  its  accomplishment,  the  Hindu  mind  concluded 
| that  the  sold,  after  the  death  of  its  temporary  owner, 
had  to  be  born  again,  in  order  to  complete  the  work  it 
had  left  undone  in  its  previous  existence,  and  that  it 
must  submit  to  the  same  fate  until  its  task  is  fulfilled. 
This  is  the  doctrine  of  metempsychosis,  which,  in  the  ab- 
sence of  a belief  in  grace,  is  a logical  consequence  of  a 
system  that  holds  the  human  soul  to  be  of  the  same  na- 
ture as  that  of  an  absolute  God.”  This  doctrine,  as  we 
have  already  stated,  is  foreign  to  the  Vedic  period.  It 
is  found  in  some  of  the  Upanishads,  but  its  fantastical 
development  belongs  decidedly  to  the  Epic  time,  where 
it  pervades  the  legends,  and  affects  the  social  life  of  the 
nation.  See  Metempsychosis;  Cabala,  III, 3. 

3.  "The  Puranic  period  of  Hinduism  is  the  period  of 
its  decline,  so  far  as  the  popular  creed  is  concerned.  Its 
pantheon  is  nominally  the  same  as  that  of  the  Epic  pe- 
riod. The  triads  of  principal  Hindu  gods,  Brahma, 
Vishnu,  and  Siva,  remain  still  at  the  head  of  its  imag- 
inary gods;  but  whereas  the  Epic  time  is  generally 
characterized  by  a friendly  harmony  between  the  high- 
ei  occupants  of  the  divine  spheres,  the  Puranic  period 
shows  discord  and  destruction.  The  popular  adoration 
has  turned  away  from  Brahma  to  Vishnu  and  Siva,  who 


HINDUISM 


263 


HINDUISM 


alone  remain  to  contend  with  each  other  for  the  highest 
rank  in  the  minds  of  their  worshippers.  The  elementary 
principle  which  originally  inhered  in  these  deities  is  thus 
completely  lost  sight  of  bv  the  followers  of  the  Puranas. 
The  legends  of  the  Epic  poems  relating  to  these  gods 
become  amplified  and  distorted,  according  to  the  secta- 
rian tendencies  of  the  masses;  and  the  divine  element 
which  still  distinguishes  these  gods  in  the  Ramayana 
and  Mahabliarata  is  now  more  and  more  mixed  up  with 
worldly  concerns  and  intersected  by  historical  events, 
disfigured  in  their  turn  to  suit  individual  interests.  Of 
the  ideas  implied  by  the  Vedic  rites,  scarcely  a trace  is  I 
visible  in  the  Puranas  and  Tantras,  which  are  the  text- 
books of  this  creed.  In  short,  the  unbridled  imagina- 
tion which  pervades  these  works  is  neither  pleasing 
from  a poetical,  nor  elevating  from  a philosophical  point 
of  view.  Some  Puranas,  it  is  true — for  instance,  the 
Bhdgavata — form  in  some  sense  an  exception  to  this 
aberration  of  original  Hinduism ; but  they  are  a com- 
promise between  the  popular  and  the  Vedanta  creed, 
which  is  henceforward  chiefly  the  creed  of  the  educated 
and  intelligent.  They  do  not  affect  the  worship  of  the  ( 
masses  as  practised  by  the  various  sects;  and  this  wor- 
ship itself,  whether  harmless,  as  with  the  worshippers 
of  Vishnu,  or  offensive,  as  with  the  adorers  of  .Siva  and 
his  wife  Durga,  is  but  an  empty  ceremonial,  which, 
here  and  there,  may  remind  one  of  the  symbolical  wor- 
ship of  the  Vedic  Hindu,  but,  as  a whole,  has  no  con- 
nection whatever  with  the  Vedic  scriptures,  on  which  I 
it  affects  to  rest.  It  is  this  creed  which,  with  further 
deteriorations,  caused  by  the  lapse  of  centuries,  is  still 
the  main  religion  of  the  masses  in  India.  The  opinion 
these  entertain,  that  it  is  countenanced  by  the  ritual, 
as  well  as  by  the  theological  portion  of  the  Veda,  is  the 
redeeming  feature  of  their  belief;  for,  as  nothing  is  ea- 
sier than  to  disabuse  their  mind  on  this  score  by  reviv- 
ing the  study  of  their  ancient  and  sacred  language,  and 
by  enabling  them  to  read  again  their  oldest  and  most 
sacred  books,  it  may  be  hoped  that  a proper  education 
of  the  people  in  this  respect,  by  learned  and  enlightened 
natives,  will  remove  many  of  the  existing  errors,  which, 
if  they  continued,  must  inevitably  lead  to  a further,  and, 
ultimately,  total  degeneration  of  the  Hindu  race. 

“The  philosophical  creed  of  this  period,  and  the  creed 
which  is  still  preserved  by  the  educated  classes,  is  that 
derived  from  the  tenets  of  the  Vedanta  philosophy.  It 
is  based  on  the  belief  of  one  supreme  being,  which  im- 
agination and  speculation  endeavor  to  invest  with  all 
the  perfections  conceivable  by  the  human  mind,  but  the 
true  nature  of  which  is  nevertheless  declared  to  be  be- 
yond the  reach  of  thought,  and  which,  on  this  ground, 
is  defined  as  not  possessing  any  of  the  qualities  by  which 
the  human  mind  is  able  to  comprehend  intellectual  or 
material  entity”  (Chambers).  See  Vedanta. 

II.  Deities. — It  has  been  stated  above  that  the  original 
worship  of  the  Hindus  appears  to  have  been  addressed 
to  the  elements.  The  heavens,  the  sun,  the  moon,  fire, 
the  air,  the  earth,  and  spirits  are  the  objects  most  fre- 
quently addressed.  In  fact,  the  deities  invoked  appear 
to  be  as  numerous  as  the  prayers  addressed  to  them. 

“It  would  be  impossible  to  give  any  account  of  the 
numerous  inferior  deities,  whose  number  is  said  to 
amount  to  330,000,000.  The  most  important  are  the 
Lokapalus,  that  is,  ‘guardians  of  the  world,’  who  are 
the  eight  gods  next  in  rank  to  the  Triad  : 1.  Indra , the 
god  of  the  heavens;  2.  Agni , the  god  of  fire;  3.  Yamu, 
the  god  of  hell;  4.  Sitrya,  the  god  of  the  sun ; 5.  Vani- 
na, the  god  of  water ; 0.  Parana,  the  god  of  the  wind ; 
7.  Kuvera,  the  god  of  wealth ; 8.  Soma,  or  Chandra,  the 
god  of  the  moon.  Many  other  deities  were  afterwards 
included  in  the  list;”  among  them,  Ganesa,  god  of  wis- 
dom and  science ; Kamas,  god  of  love ; Ganga,  goddess 
of  the  river  Ganges;  Narudus,  messenger  of  the  gods, 
etc.  Each  of  the  gods  besides  has  his  legal  spouse. 
The  most  important  among  these  goddesses  are  Saras- 
u'ati,  wife  of  Brahma,  goddess  of  eloquence,  the  protect- 
or of  arts  and  sciences,  and  particidarly  of  music,  where- 


fore the  vina,  or  lute,  is  her  attribute;  Sri,  Lahehmi, 
etc.,  wife  of  Vishnu,  dispenser  of  blessings.  But  the 
most  important  of  all  is  Siva’s  female  partner,  Durga, 
Kali,  or  Calve , goddess  of  evil  and  destruction,  whose 
worship  is  by  far  the  most  extensive.  Aside  from  these, 
there  is  yet  a multitude  of  inferior  gods,  demigods,  etc., 
the  principal  of  which  are  the  seven  or  ten  Brahmadi- 
k as  or  Risliis  (seers),  the  most  important  of  whom  is 
Dakshas,  with  Dili  and  Aditi  for  wives;  from  Diti  come 
the  Daitgas  or  A suras,  the  diem oi is  (of  destruction), 
but  from  Aditi  the  Suras  or  Devas  (i.  e.  gods).  The 
Gandharvas  are  the  musicians  and  dancers  of  heaven; 
the  Apsarasas,  the  heavenly  nymphs;  the  Yah  ft  as, 
the  keepers  of  treasures  in  the  mountains;  the  Ruhka- 
sas,  the  enemies  of  mankind  and  of  all  good.  The  earth 
is,  besides,  inhabited  by  a multitude  of  evil  spirits.  The 
existence  of  the  three  worlds  (of  the  gods,  the  earth, 
and  the  lower  world)  is  not  considered  eternal;  it  is  to 
be  destroyed  by  Ivala,  the  god  of  time,  who,  in  regard 
to  this  act,  is  called  JIahapralaya,  or  the  great  end. 
Some  animals  also  are  the  objects  of  religious  adoration 
or  fear,  particularly  the  bull ; also  the  snakes,  whose 
connection  with  the  demigods  brought  forth  the  mon- 
keys, which  are  the  objects  of  superstitious  dread. 
Among  the  birds  the  Canada  is  the  most  honored,  and 
the  Banian  among  trees. 

III.  Later  Sects. — The  worship  of  these  gods,  as  well 
as  of  numerous  others,  which  was  once  very  popular  in 
Hindustan,  has  almost  disappeared  in  consequence  of 
the  exclusive  worship  which  is  paid,  to  Vishnu,  Siva, 
Kali,  or  Sakti,  and  a few  other  deities,  by  the  religious 
sects  of  the  present  day.  Each  sect  maintains  that  the 
god  it  worships  unites  in  his  person  all  the  attributes  of 
the  deity.  Few  Brahmins  of  learning,  however,  will 
acknowledge  themselves  to  belong  to  any  of  the  popu- 
lar divisions  of  the  Hindu  faith  ; they  acknowledge  the 
Vedas,  Puranas,  and  Tantras  as  the  only  orthodox  rit- 
ual, and  regard  all  practices  not  derived  from  these 
sources  as  irregular  and  profane.  The  following  is  a 
list  of  the  principal  sects : 

(1.)  Vaishnavas,  who  worship  Vishnu,  or,  rather,  lla- 
ma, Krishna , and  other  heroes  connected  with  the  in- 
carnation of  that  deity.  This  sect  is  distinguished 
generally  by  an  abstinence  from  animal  food,  and  by  a 
worship  less  cruel  than  that  of  the  Saivas  (2).  They 
are  divided  into  numerous  sects,  which  often  agree  only 
in  maintaining  that  Vishnu  is  Brahma,  that  is,  Deity. 
One  of  the  most  important  of  the  Vaishnava  sects  is  the 
Kabir  Panthis,  founded  by  Kabir  in  the  15th  century. 
Kabir  assailed  the  whole  system  of  idolatrous  worship, 
and  ridiculed  the  learning  of  the  Pundits  and  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Shastra.  His  doctrines  have  had  great  in- 
fluence. His  followers  are  included  among  the  Vaish- 
navas because  they  pay  more  respect  to  Vishnu  than  to 
any  other  deity;  but  it  is  no  part  of  their  faith  to  wor- 
ship any  Hindu  deity,  or  to  observe  any  of  the  rites  of 
the  Hindu  religion. 

(2.)  Saicas,  who  worship  Siva,  and  are  more  numer- 
ous than  any  other  sect.  The  mark  by  which  they  are 
distinguished  is  three  horizontal  lines  on  the  forehead, 
drawn  in  ashes,  obtained  from  the  hearth  on  which  a 
sacred  fire  is  kept;  while  that  of  the  Vaishnavas  con- 
sists in  perpendicular  lines,  of  which  the  number  differs 
according  to  the  sect  to  which  the  individual  belongs. 
“Sivaism  recalls  the  ancient  religion  of  nature,  and  the 
gross  dualism  of  Phoenicia”  (Pressense,  Iteligions  before 
Christ,  p.  58). 

(3.)  Saktas.  The  Hindu  mythology  has  personified 
the  abstract  and  active  powers  of  the  divinity,  and  has 
ascribed  sexes  to  these  personages.  The  Sakti,  or  ac- 
tive power  of  God,  is  female,  anil  is  considered  the  con- 
sort of  the  abstract  attribute.  The  Saktas,  who  may 
perhaps  be  regarded  as  only  a subdivision  of  the  Saivas, 
worship  the  Sakti  of  Siva,  and  are  not  very  numerous. 

(4.)  Sauras,  the  worshippers  of  Surva,  the  sun. 

(5.)  Ganapatyas,  the  worshippers  of  Ganesa,  the  god 
of  wisdom. 


HINDUISM 


264 


HINDUISM 


The  Sauras  and  Ganapatyas  are  not  very  numerous.  [ 
The  religious  sects  of  India  are  divided  into  two  classes, 
which  may  be  called  clerical  and  lay.  The  priests  may 
also  be  divided  into  two  classes,  the  monastic  and  secu- 
lar clergy,  the  majority  belonging  to  the  monastic  or- 
der, since  the  preference  is  usually  given  by  laymen  to 
teachers  who  lead  an  ascetic  life. 

The  sects  which  have  already  been  enumerated  pro- 
fess to  follow  the  authority  of  the  Veda,  but  there  are 
other  sects  which  disavow  its  authority,  and  are  there- 
fore regarded  as  forming  no  part  of  the  Hindu  Church. 
The  most  important  of  these  are  the  Buddhists,  the  Jainas 
(q.  v.),  and  the  Sikhs.  The  Buddhists  have  long  since 
been  expelled  from  Hindustan,  but  it  is  evident  that 
they  were  once  very  numerous  in  all  parts  of  the  coun- 
try. See  Buddhism,  The  sect  of  the  Sikhs  was  found- 
ed by  Nanak  Shah  about  A.D.  1500.  Their  present  faith 
is  a creed  of  pure  deism,  grounded  on  the  most  sublime 
general  truths ; blended  with  the  belief  of  all  the  absurd- 
ities of  Hindu  mythology  and  the  fables  of  Mohamme- 
danism (Malcolm).  They  despise  the  Hindus  and  hate 
the  Mussulman,  and  do  not  recognise  the  distinction  of 
caste.  They  also  reject  the  authority  of  the  Yeda,  the 
Puranas,  and  all  other  religious  books  of  the  Hindus; 
eat  all  kinds  of  flesh  except  that  of  cows ; willingly  admit 
proselytes  from  every  caste ; and  consider  the  profession 
of  arms  the  religious  duty  of  every  individual.  An  in- 
teresting account  of  this  sect  is  given  in  Malcolm's  Sketch 
of  the  Sikhs. — A siatic  Researches,  xi,  1 97-292 ; Cunning- 
ham, Sikhs.  For  the  distinctions  of  caste,  see  India. 

IT.  Doctrines  and  Worship. — As  already  intimated,  a 
broad  distinction  exists  between  the  religion  of  the  peo- 
ple and  that  of  the  learned.  The  popular  religion  is  a 
debased  polytheism,  without  unity  of  belief  or  worship. 
The  people  believe  that  the  performance  of  certaiu  forms 
is  the  only  and  sure  means  of  salvation,  and  that  those 
who  observe  these  things  will,  at  a fixed  time  after  death, 
be  admitted  into  the  joys  of  paradise.  The  religion  of  the 
learned  class,  on  the  other  hand,  professes  to  rest  upon 
pure  contemplation ; its  theory  of  the  universe  is  panthe- 
istic; and  religious  observances,  apart  from  absorption  of 
mind  in  the  universal  mind,  are  of  no  value.  The  daily 
duties  of  the  Brahmin  consist  of  five  religious  occupa- 
tions, considered  as  five  sacraments:  the  study  of  the  Ye- 
da ( brahma-jagnas , or  ahuta,  i.  e.  not  offered);  offering 
for  the  progress  of  the  honor  of  the  gods  (hula,  i.  e.  offer- 
ed); entertaining  the  fire  of  the  dead  (sradda)  in  honor 
of  the  manes  (prdsita) ; offering  of  the  Bali  in  honor  of 
the  spirits  ( prahuta ),  and  of  hospitality,  in  honor  of 
mankind  ( brdhmja-huta ).  Offerings  and  prayers  for  all 
possible  objects  follow  each  other  from  morning  till 
night.  Prayer  is  recommended  by  the  Yeda  for  every 
occasion.  The  number  of  ablutions  the  Hindus  consid- 
er as  obligatory  is  immense;  near  every  temple  a pond 
is  provided  for  that  purpose;  but  the  most  sanctifying 
ablutions  are  those  performed  in  the  Ganges,  particular- 
ly at  the  five  points  where  it  unites  with  other  streams. 
The  holiest  of  all,  according  to  the  popular  belief  of  the 
Hindus,  is  Allahabad,  where,  besides  the  Jumna,  the  8a- 
rasvati  also  unites  with  the  Ganges.  The  most  impor- 
tant act  of  worship  consists  partly  of  bloody  sacrifices. 
The  principal  among  these  is  that  of  A svumedha,  or  sac- 
rifice of  horses.  Bloody  sacrifices  are  mostly  made  to 
Siva  and  Kali,  whilst  the  offerings  to  Yislinn  are  gener- 
ally of  water,  oil,  butter,  fruit,  flowers,  etc.  All  sins  of 
commission  or  of  omission  can  be  effaced  by  penances 
described  in  the  laws,  and  provided  for  every  caste  and 
every  case;  a thorough  fast  of  twelve  days’  duration 
(Paraka)  cancels  all  sins.  The  prescribed  penances 
must  be  observed  if  the  sinner  desires  to  avoid  the  pen- 
alty of  his  sin  in  a new  form  of  existence.  There  are 
therefore  a great  number  of  penitents  and  hermits  in 
India,  who  seek  merit  by  the  renunciation  of  all  enjoy- 
ment, and  the  mortification  of  the  flesh.  In  fact,  East- 
ern monachism  is,  in  manjr  respects,  the  type  of  that  of 
the  Romish  Church.  See  Monachism. 

The  gnosis  of  the  learned  Hindus  consists  in  regarding 


union  ( Yoga ) with  God  as  the  highest  aim  of  man;  this 
doctrine  is  further  developed  in  the  philosophy  of  the 
Yeda.  The  liberation  following  death  is  twofold.  Such 
souls  as  have  arrived  at  high  perfection  are  admitted 
into  the  Brahmic  heavens  ( Svarga ),  where  they  enjoy 
much  higher  happiness  than  in  the  paradise  of  the  In- 
dra,  but  after  a time  they  are  sent  back  again  to  under- 
go another  period  of  probation.  But  when  man  has  by 
contemplation  identified  himself  with  the  divinity,  or 
Nirvana,  his  soul  enters  into,  and  becomes  part  of  the 
immense  soul  (Atma),  and  enjoys  everlasting  felicity, 
not  having  to  assume  any  new  form  of  existence.  Those 
who  aim  at  reaching  this  unity  with  the  divinity  are 
called  Yogi.  An  essential  means  of  arriving  at  this  re- 
sult is  found  in  the  penances  or  Tapas.  On  certain  oc- 
casions (feasts)  all  the  practices  of  the  religion  are  uni- 
ted, sacrifices,  offerings,  prayers,  etc.  There  are  eighteen 
such  feasts  considered  obligatory.  The  feast  of  1 Jali,  or 
Holaka,  is  the  oldest  and  most  important.  The  Vais- 
vadera  is  the  offering  to  all  gods.  It  consists,  as  has 
already  been  stated  in  our  treatment  of  the  Yedic  pe- 
riod, in  throwing  melted  butter  (ghee)  on  the  flame  of 
the  sacred  fire,  which  must  be  carefully  kept  burning. 
The  Brahmins  must  offer  it  every  morning  and  evening, 
first  to  the  god  of  fire  and  the  moon,  then  to  all  the  oth- 
er gods  and  goddesses.  Each  particular  feast  presents 
some  peculiarities,  and  they  are  differently  observed  in 
the  various  localities.  Aside  from  these  general  feasts, 
each  important  pagoda  has  some  special  ones.  The 
most  important  are  those  of  Juggernaut.  Benares,  Guja, 
Allahabad,  Tripety,  Dvaraka,  Somnauth,  Eamisseran,the 
sea  Manasarovara,  Gangotri,  Omerknntuk,  Trimbuek- 
Nasser,  Pervuttum,  Parkur,  Mathura,  and  Bindrabund. 

Y.  Images,  Temples,  etc. — The  Hindus  have  images  of 
their  gods,  but  they  are  of  a grotesque  or  fantastic  kind; 
some  are  represented  with  heads  of  animals  (as  Ganesa), 
others  with  superabundant  limbs  (as  Brahma,  with  four 
arms),  or  disfigured,  etc.  Antiquity  was  more  sparing 
in  this  hue,  but  afterwards  the  arts  of  India  were  applied 
to  the  production  of  innumerable  monstrosities.  The 
lower  orders  of  divinities  are  often  represented  under 
the  form  of  animals  (thus  Ilannman  is  represented  as  an 
ape,  Mundi  as  a bull,  etc.),  and  are  generally  considered 
as  the  steeds  of  the  higher  deities.  These  images  of 
the  gods  are  placed  in  the  temples,  which  originally 
were  grottoes;  they  now  are  pagodas,  built  in  the  shape 
of  a pyramid,  ornamented  with  columns,  statues,  and 
symbolic  figures;  they  are  divided  into  courts  by  means 
of  colonnades,  surrounded  by  high  walls,  and  by  the  hab- 
itations of  the  priests.  In  the  vestibule  there  is  always 
an  image  of  some  inferior  deity  confronting  the  wor- 
shipper as  he  enters.  Admission  into  these  courts  is 
only  granted  to  the  Kshattriyas  and  the  Yaisyas ; the 
interior  of  the  pagoda  is  reserved  for  the  Brahmins  or 
priests,  which,  in  each  pagoda,  are  under  the  command 
of  a head  Brahmin,  who  admits  as  many  assistants  as 
the  income  of  the  pagoda  will  permit.  In  some  of  the 
temples  there  are  as  many  as  3000  Brahmins.  Their 
priestly  duties  consist  in  offering  sacrifices  and  reading 
the  Yeda.  The  worship  is  accompanied  by  songs  and 
dances  from  the  two  higher  classes  of  dancing  girls,  the 
Devadasis  and  the  Natakas. 

YI.  Literature. — See  Moor,  Hindu  Pantheon  (London, 
1810);  Coleman,  Mythol.  of  Hindus  (1832);  Rhode,  Uebcr 
relig.  Bildung,  der  Hindu  (Lpz.  1827, 2 vols.) : Wilson,  Re- 
lig. Sects  of  the  Hindoos  (A  s.  Res.  xvi  and  xvii) ; Ess.  and  a 
Led.  on  the  Relig.  of  the  Hind.  (2  vols.  8vo) ; Vishnu  Pu- 
rana,  or  Syst.  of  Bin.  Mythol.  (4  vols.  8vo) ; Colebrooke, 
Miscell.  Essays  (Lond.  1837,  2 vols.);  Relig.  and  Philos, 
of  the  Hindoos  (Lond.  1858,  8vo)  ; Small,  Hdbk.  of  San- 
skrit Lit.  (Lond.  18G9,  12mo) ; Wheeler,  History  of  India 
(vol.  i,  Yedic  period  and  the  Mahabharata;  vol.  ii,  the 
Rainyana,  the  Brahm.  period,  Lond.  1809,  8vo);  Wnttke, 
Gescli.  d.  Heidenthums  (2d  ed.  Berl.  1855,  2 vols.) ; We- 
ber, Akadem.  Vorles.  ii.  Lid.  Literatui-gesch.  (Berl.  1852); 
Ind.  Stud.  (Berl.  1849-58, 1-4  vols.) ; Ind.  Skizzen  (Berl. 
1857);  Muller,  On  the  Literat.  of  the  Vedas  (Lond,  1859, 


HINDU  LITERATURE  2( 

2 vols.) ; Chips  from  a German  Workshop  (N.  Y.  1870,  2 
vols.  12mo) ; Hardwick,  Christ  and  other  Masters  (2d  cd. 
Loml.  1863,  2 vols.  12mo) ; Seholten,  Gesch.  d.  Religion  u. 
Philos.  (Elberf.  1*68,  8vo);  Wriglitson,  Introd.  Treatise 
on  Sanskrit  Ilagiographa , or  the  Sacred  Literal . of  the 
Jlimlus  (2  parts,  12mo)  ; Corkman's  Pressense,  Religions 
before  Christ,  p.  44  sq. ; Barlow,  Ess.  on  Symbolism  (Loml. 
12mo),  cli.  iv  and  viii ; Williams,  I ml.  Epic  Poet.  (Load. 
8vo) ; I’ierer,  Univ.-Lcx.  viii;  Chambers,  Cyclop,  y,  540 
sq. ; Reeve  d.  deux  Mondes , Jan.  1858 ; jV.  A m.  Rev.  April, 
1*58,  p.  435.  A clear  and  concise  statement  of  the  re- 
ligion of  India  is  given  by  Arthur,  Mission  to  the  My- 
sore, ch.  ix  (Loml.  1847, 12mo).  For  India  as  a Missior- 
field  (by  the  Rev.  T.  J.  Scott),  see  Methodist  Quart.  Rec. 
Jan.  1869,  p.  30;  Biblioth.  Sacra,  Apr.  1852,  art.  i.  See 
also  Buddhism;  Brahma;  India.  (J.  II. W.) 

Hindu  Literature.  See  Sanskrit  Literature. 

Hindu  Philosophy  is  divided  into  six  systems  or 
sastra,  namely,  the  Xyaya,  Vaiseshika,  Sankhyd,Yoga, 
Mimdnsd,  and  Vedanta.  The  Sankhyn  and  Yoga  agree 
in  all  essentials,  except  that  the  former  is  atheistic  and 
the  latter  theistic.  The  systems  generally  unite  on  cer- 
tain points:  1.  The  Mimansa  excepted, their  end  is  to 
inculcate  expedients  for  “salvation,”  which  is  deliver- 
ance from  “ bondage.”  2.  The  soul,  though  distinct  from 
the  mind,  the  senses,  and  the  body,  yet  identifies  itself 
with  them.  As  a consequence  of  this  delusion,  it  con- 
ceives the  thought  of  ownership  in  itself  and  others,  and 
supposes  that  it  receives  pleasure  and  pain  through  the 
body.  As  a farther  consequence,  it  engages  in  good  and 
evil  works,  which  have  merit  or  demerit.  As  this  merit 
or  demerit  must  be  awarded,  the  soul  must  pass  to  Ely- 
sium or  Hell,  and  repeatedly  be  born  and  die.  This  is 
bondage  caused  by  ignorance,  from  which, when  the  soul 
is  delivered,  it  gains  absorption  into  the  deity.  3.  As  a 
consequence  of  the  foregoing,  good  deeds  and  their  re- 
ward are  only  a less  curse  than  their  opposites,  and  are 
to  be  deprecated,  as  they  compel  the  soul  till  the  award 
is  experienced  to  abide  in  the  body  of  a god,  or  a man, 
or  other  superior  being.  4.  Release  from  transmigration 
can  only  be  had  through  “ right  apprehension ,”  which 
consists,  of  course,  in  the  recognition  by  the  soul  of  it- 
self as  distinct  from  the  mind  and  all  else.  To  gain 
this  “right  apprehension”  one  must  study  the  Shastras; 
and,  in  order  to  clearness  of  intellect  and  heart  for  this 
work,  such  good  works  as  sacrifices,  alms,  pilgrimages, 
repetitions  of  sacred  words,  and  the  like,  are  to  be  per- 
formed, but  without  desire  for  reward.  5.  They  all 
maintain  that  the  soul  has  existed  from  everlasting,  and 
that  it  is  exempt  from  liability  to  extinction,  though  it 
may  be  again  and  again  invested  with  a corporeal  body. 
6.  All  the  systematists  teach  the  eternity  of  matter.  7. 
They  all  receive  the  words  of  the  Yeda  as  unquestionable 
authority.  See  Refutation  of  Hindu  Systems,  bv  N.  Gore 
(Calcutta,  1862) ; Aphorisms  of  the  Yoga,  Sankhyd,  etc. 
(Allahabad,  India,  1864).  (J.  T.  G.) 

Hindus,  Modern,  a term  recentlj’-  used  to  desig- 
nate a class  of  Hindu  reformers,  who  call  themselves 
Brahmists,  and  represent  a school  of  thought  which 
originated  fifty  or  sixty  ago  with  Rammohun  Roy,  who 
undertook  to  reform  Hinduism  on  the  basis  of  the  Veda 
alone,  the  religion  of  which  he  held  to  be  a pure  theism. 
In  1846  they  became  dissatisfied  with  the  Yeda,  and 
adopted  Intuitionalism.  They  have  planted  societies 
throughout  Bengal,  Madras,  the  North-west  Provinces, 
the  Punjab,  and  Bombay.  They  ignore  idol  worship, 
caste,  metempsychosis,  and  all  Brahminical  ceremonies. 
The  Tntiu  Bodheney  Press,  of  Calcutta,  has  issued  a great 
number  of  their  publications  (see  Dr.  Duff,  in  Christian 
Work  for  1862;  Foreign  Missions,  by  Dr.  Anderson). 
See  Rammohun  Roy.  (J.  T.  G.) 

Hindustan.  See  India. 

Hinge  (“i“1-J,  tsir,  that  upon  which  a door  revolves, 
Prov.  xxvi,  14;  also  the^an^s  of  childbirth,  Isa.  xiii,  8, 
etc.;  also  a messenger,  Prov.  xiii,  17,  etc.;  HS, poth,  lit. 
an  interstice,  put.  for  pudenda  muliebra,  Isa.  iii,  17 ; fig. 


5 HINNOM 

female  hinges,  i.  e.  the  eyes  or  parts  with  sockets,  1 
Kings  vii,  50).  “ Doors  in  the  East  turn  rather  on  piv- 

ots than  what  we  term  hinges.  They  were  sometimes 
of  metal,  hut  generally  of  the  same  material  as  the  door 
itseh,  and  worked  in  sockets  above  and  below  in  the 
door-frame.  As  the  weight  of  the  door  rests  on  the 
lower  pivot,  it  opens  with  much  less  ease  than  one  mov- 
ing on  hinges,  particularly  when  the  lower  socket  be- 
comes worn  by  the  weight  and  friction.” — Piet.  Bible, 
note  oil  Prov.  xxvi,  14.  “In  Syria,  and  especially  the 


Ancient  Egyptiau  Door-hinges.  (From  the  British  Mu- 
seum.) 

Ilauran,  there  are  many  ancient  doors  consisting  of 
stone  slabs  with  pivots  carved  out  of  the  same  piece,  in- 
serted in  sockets  above  and  below,  and  fixed  during  the 
building  of  the  house.  The  allusion  in  Prov.  xxvi,  14 
is  thus  clearly  explained.  The  hinges  mentioned  in  1 
Kings  vii,  50,  were  probably  of  the  Egyptian  kind,  at- 
tached to  the  upper  and  lower  sides  of  the  door  (Buck- 
ingham, .1  rab  Tribes,  p.  177 ; Porter,  Damascus,  ii,  22, 
192;  Manmlrell,  Early  Travels,  p.  447,  448  (Bohn]; 
Shaw,  Travels,]). 210;  Lord  Lindsay, Letters. p. 292 ; Wil- 
kinson, -1  nc.  Egypt,  abridgm.  i,  15).” — Smith,  s.  v.  See 
Door.  ^ 

Hinraan,  Clark  F.,  D.D.,  a Methodist  Episcopal 
minister,  was  born  at  Kortright,  Delaware  Co.,  N.  Y., 
Aug.  3, 1819.  He  graduated  at  the  Wesleyan  University 
in  1839,  and  spent  several  years  in  teaching,  at  one  time 
as  principal  of  Newbury  Seminary,  Yt.  In  1849  lie  was 
elected  principal  of  the  Wesleyan  Seminary  at  Albion, 
Michigan,  and  early  in  1853  president  of  the  North- 
western University.  In  this  position  be  devoted  his 
whole  energy  to  the  work  of  putting  that  institution  on 
a proper  footing,  and  his  labors  in  its  behalf  exhausted 
his  strength  anil  broke  his  constitution  completely.  Yet 
he  refused  to  suspend  his  exertions  until  a pending  list 
of  engagements  was  fulfilled,  and  while  thus  employed 
he  was  prostrated  at  Troy,  N.  Y.,  and  died  oil  the  21st 
of  October,  1854.  Dr.  1 1 in  man  distinguished  himself  in 
every  relation  of  life,  from  boyhood  to  his  death,  hv  ca- 
pacity, energy,  and  piety.  He  was  a good  scholar,  an 
earnest  and  eloquent  preacher,  and  a very  successful  ed- 
ucator of  youth.  His  early  death  was  a great  loss  to 
the  cause  of  Christian  education  in  America. — Sprague, 
Annals  of  the  American  Pulpit,  vii,  817. 

HinTiom  (Ileb .Ilinnom',  Cifl,for  C IT}, gracious,  or 
for  abundant),  or,  rather,  Ben-IIinnom 

son  of  Ilinnom ; Sept,  vibe  ’Evvb/t ; also  in  the  plur.  “sons 
of  Ilinnom”),  an  unknown  person  (proh.  one  of  the  orig- 
inal Jebusites),  whose  name  (peril,  as  resident)  was  given 
to  the  valley  (“Yalley  of  Ilinnom,”  otherwise  called 
“the  valley  of  the  son”  or  “children  of  Ilinnom,”  "“3 
D-n  or  "n-jnVs  or  variously  rendered  by 

the  Sept.  <pdpay$  ’Evvop,  or  viov  ’Evvbp,  or  Vaiivva, 
Josh,  xviii,  16;  iv  jy  Bf v'tvvop,  2 Chron.  xxviii,  3; 
xxxiii,  6;  to  7 ~o\vdvcpiov  vlu>v  tojv  rtxpujv  ai/rwu. 


HINNOM 


266 


HINNOM 


Jer.  xix,  2,  6),  a deep  and  narrow  ravine,  with  steep,  I 
rocky  sides,  on  the  southerly  side  of  Jerusalem,  separa-  \ 
ting  Mount  Zion  on  the  south  from  the  ‘‘Hill  of  Evil 
Counsel,”  and  the  sloping,  rocky  plateau  of  the  “plain 
of  Rcphaim”  on  the  north,  taking  its  name,  according  to 
{Stanley,  from  “some  ancient  hero,  the  son  of  Hinnom,” 
having  encamped  in  it  (S.  and  Pal.  p.  172).  The  earli- 
est mention  of  the  valley  of  Hinnom  in  the  sacred  writ- 
ings is  in  Josh,  xv,  8,  where  the  boundary-line  between 
the  tribes  of  Judah  and  Benjamin  is  described  with  mi- 
nute topographical  accuracy,  as  passing  along  the  bed 
of  the  ravine  from  En-Rogel  to  the  top  of  the  mountain 
“ that  both  before  the  valley  westward,”  at  the  north 
end  of  the  plain  of  Iiephaim.  It  is  described  in  Josh, 
xviii,  10  as  on  the  south  side  of  Jebusi,  that  is,  Mount 
Zion,  on  which  the  ancient  stronghold  of  the  Jebusites 
stood.  The  valley  obtained  wide  notoriety  as  the  scene 
of  the  barbarous  rites  of  Moleeh  and  Cliemosh,  first  in- 
troduced by  Solomon,  who  built  “ a high  place  for  Che- 
mosli,  the  abomination  of  Moab,  in  the  hill  that  is  be- 
fore Jerusalem  (Olivet);  and  for  Moleeh,  the  abomina- 
tion of  the  children  of  Ammon”  (1  Kings  xi,  7).  The 
inhuman  rites  were  continued  by  the  idolatrous  kings 
of  Judah.  A monster  idol  of  brass  was  erected  in  the 
opening  of  the  valley,  facing  the  steep  side  of  Olivet, 
and  there  the  infatuated  .i 'habitants  of  Jerusalem  burnt 
their  sons  and  their  dauglitL.,'  in  the  fire — easting  them, 
it  is  said,  into  the  red-hot  ■ ms  of  the  idol  (Jer.  vii,  31 ; 
2 Chron.  xxviii,  3 : xxxiii,  G;.  No  spot  could  have  been 
selected  near  tV.  Holy  City  so  well  fitted  for  the  perpe- 
tration of  these  horrid  cruelties:  the  deep,  retired  glen, 
shut  in  by  rugged  eliffs,  and  the  bleak  mountain  sides 
rising  over  all.  The  worship  of  Moleeh  was  abolished 
by  Josiah,  and  the  place  dedicated  to  him  was  defiled 
by  being  strewn  with  human  bones:  “He  defiled  To- 
pheth,  which  is  in  the  valley  of  the  children  of  Hinnom, 
that  no  man  might  make  his  son  or  his  daughter  pass 
through  the  fire  to  Moleeh  . . . and  he  brake  in  pieces 
the  images,  and  cut  down  their  groves,  and  filled  their 
places  with  the  bones  of  men”  (2  Kings  xxiii,  10,  14). 
The  place  thus  became  ceremonially  unclean ; no  Jew 
could  enter  it  (2  Chron.  xxxiv,  4,  5).  From  this  time 
it  appears  to  have  become  the  common  cesspool  of  the 
city,  into  which  its  sewage  was  conducted,  to  be  carried 
off  by  the  waters  of  the  Kidron,  as  well  as  a laystall, 
where  all  its  solid  filth  was  collected.  It  was  afterwards 
a public  cemetery  [see  Aceldama],  and  the  traveller 
who  now'  stands  in  the  bottom  of  this  valley  and  looks  up 
at  the  multitude  of  tombs  in  the  cliffs  above  and  around 
him,  thickly  dotting  the  side  of  Olivet,  will  be  able  to 
see  with  what  wondrous  accuracy  the  curse  of  Jeremi- 
ah has  been  fulfilled:  “Behold,  the  days  come,  saith 
the  Lord,  that  it  shall  no  more  be  called  Tophet,  nor 
The  Valley  of  the  Son  of  Hinnom,  but  The  Valley  of 
Slaughter;  for  they  shall  bury  in  Tophet  till  there  be 
no  more  place”  (vii,  32).  We  learn  from  Josephus  that 
the  last  terrible  struggle  between  the  .lews  and  Unmans 
took  place  here  (ll'i/r,  vi,  8,  5);  and  here,  too,  it  ap- 
pears the  dead  bodies  were  thrown  out  of  the  city  after 
the  siege  (v,  12,  7).  The  inhuman  rites  anciently  prac- 
tised in  the  valley  of  Hinnom  caused  the  latter  Jews  to 
regard  it  with  feelings  of  horror  and  detestation.  The 
Babbins  suppose  it  to  be  the  gate  of  hell  (Lightfoot, 
Opera,  ii,  28G) ; and  the  Jews  applied  the  name  given 
to  the  valley  in  some  passages  of  the  Sept.  rf£io'«,  to 
the  place  of  eternal  torment.  lienee  we  find  in  Matt, 
v,  22,  “ Whosoever  shall  say,  thou  fool,  shall  l>e  in  dan- 
ger of  Ti) v yUvvai'  tov  iripaq — the  Gehenna  of  fire.” 
The  word  is  formed  from  the  Hebrew  t:n  “ Val- 
ley of  Hinnom.”  See  IIell.  The  valley  was  also  call- 
ed Tcipheth  (2  Kings  xxiii,  10;  Isa.  xxx,  33;  Jer.  vii, 
31),  either  from  PS!-!,  “spittle,”  and  it  would  hence 
mean  “a  place  to  spit  upon,”  or  from' <"l  PSP,  “place  of 
burning.”  See  Tophet. 

Most  commentators  follow  Buxtorf,  Lightfoot,  and 
others,  in  asserting  that  perpetual  fires  were  kept  up  for 


the  consumption  of  bodies  of  criminals,  careases  of  ani- 
mals, and  whatever  else  was  combustible ; but  the  rab- 
binical authorities  usually  brought  forward  in  support  of 
this  idea  appear  insufficient,  and  Robinson  declares  (i, 
274)  that  “there  is  no  evidence  of  any  other  fires  than 
those  of  Moleeh  having  been  kept  up  in  this  valley,”  re- 
ferring to  Itosenm filler,  Bihlisch.  Geogr.  II,  i,  15G,  1G4. 
For  the  more  ordinary  view,  see  Hengstenberg,  Christol. 
ii, 454 ; iv, 41;  Keil  on  Kings  ii,  147,  Clark’s  edit.;  and 
comp.  Isa.  xxx,  33 ; lxvi,  24.  See  Moloch.  It  is  call- 
ed, Jer.  ii,  23,  “ the  valley,”  kot’  ox>)v,  and  perhaps 
“ the  valley  of  dead  bodies,”  xxi,  40,  and  “ the  valley  of 
vision,”  Isa.  xxii,  I,  5 (Stanley,  S.  and  P.  p.  172,  482). 
The  name  by  which  it  is  now  known  is  (in  ignorance  of 
the  meaning  of  the  initial  syllable)  Wady  Jehennam,  or 
Wady  er-Rubtb  (Williams,  Iloly  City,  i,  5G,  Supplem.), 
though  in  Mohammedan  traditions  the  name  Gehenna 
is  applied  to  the  Valley  of  Kedron  (Ibn  Batutah,  12, 4; 
Stanley,  lit  sup.).  See  Gehenna. 

The  valley  commences  in  abroad  sloping  basin  to  the 
west  of  the  city,  south  of  the  Jaffa  road  (extending  near- 
ly to  the  brow  of  the  great  wady  on  the  west),  in  the  cen- 
tre of  which,  700  yards  from  the  Jaffa  gate,  is  the  large 
reservoir,  supposed  to  be  the  “upper  pool,”  or  “Gihon” 
[see  Giiion]  (Isa.  vii,  3;  xxxvi,  2;  2 Chron.  xxxii,  30), 
now  know'll  as  Birhet  el-Mumilla.  After  running  about 
three  quarters  of  a mile  east  by  south,  the  valley  takes  a 
sudden  bend  to  the  south  opposite  the  Jaffa  gate,  hut  in 
less  than  another  three  quarters  of  a mile  it  encounters 
a rocky  hill-side  which  forces  it  again  in  an  easterly  di- 
rection, sweeping  round  the  precipitous  south-w  est  cor- 
ner of  Mount  Zion  almost  at  a right  angle.  In  this  part 
of  its  course  the  valley  is  from  50  to  100  yards  broad, 
the  bottom  ever}'  where  covered  with  small  stones,  anil 
cultivated.  At  290  yards  from  the  Jaffa  gate  it  is  cross- 
ed by  an  aqueduct  on  nine  very  low  arches,  conveying 
water  from  the  “ pools  of  Solomon”  to  the  Temple  Mount, 
a short  distance  below'  which  is  the  “lower  pool”  (Isa. 
xxii,  9),  Birket  es-Sultan.  From  this  point,  the  ravine 
narrows  and  deepens,  and  descends  with  great  rapidity 
betw'een  broken  cliffs,  rising  in  successive  terraces,  honey- 
combed with  innumerable  sepulchral  recesses,  forming 
the  northern  face  of  the  “ Hill  of  Evil  Counsel,”  to  the 
south,  and  the  steep  shelving,  but  not  precipitous  south- 
ern slopes  of  Mount  Zion,  which  rise  to  about  the  height 
of  1 50  feet  to  the  north.  The  bed  of  the  valley  is  plant- 
ed with  olives  and  other  fruit-trees,  and,  w'hen  practica- 
ble, is  cultivated.  About  400  yards  from  the  south-west 
angle  of  Mount  Zion  the  valley  contracts  still  more,  be- 
comes quite  narrow  and  stony,  and  descends  with  much 
greater  rapidity  towards  the  “valley  of  Jehoshapliat,” 
or  “of  the  brook  Kidron,"  before  joining  which  it  opens 
out  again,  forming  an  oblong  plot,  the  site  of  Tophet,  de- 
voted to  gardens  irrigated  by  the  waters  of  Siloam.  To- 
wards the  eastern  extremity  of  the  valley  is  the  tradi- 
tional site  of  “Aceldama,”  authenticated  by  a bed  of 
w'hite  clay  still  w'orked  by  potters  (Williams,  Holy  City, 
ii,  495),  opposite  to  which,  where  the  cliff  is  thirty  or 
forty  feet  high,  the  tree  on  which  Judas  hanged  him- 
self w'as  located  during  the  Frankish  kingdom  (Barclay, 
City  of  Great  King,  p.  208).  Not  far  from  Aceldama  is 
a conspicuously  situated  tomb  with  a Doric  pediment, 
sometimes  known  as  the  “ w'hited  sepulchre,”  near  which 
a large  sepulchral  recess,  with  a Doric  portal  hewn  in 
the  native  rock,  is  known  as  the  “ Latibulum  apostolo- 
rum,”  where  the  Twelve  are  said  to  have  coneealed 
themselves  during  the  time  between  the  Crucifixion  and 
the  Resurrection.  The  tombs  continue  quite  down  to 
the  corner  of  the  mountain,  where  it  bends  off  to  the 
south  along  the  valley  of  Jelioshaphat.  None  of  the  se- 
pulchral recesses  in  the  vicinity  of  Jerusalem  are  so  well 
preserved;  most  of  thise  are  very  old — small  gloomy 
caves,  with  narrow,  rock-hewn  doorways.  See  Jekusa- 

LEM. 

Robinson  places  “the  valley  gate,”  Neh.  ii,  13,15;  2 
Chron.  xxvi,  9,  at  the  north-west  corner  of  Mount  Zion, 
in  the  upper  part  of  this  valley  ( Researches , i,  220, 239, 


HINRICHS 


267 


HIPPICUS 


274, 320,  353 ; Williams,  Holy  City , i,  Suppl.  56 ; ii,  495 ; 
Barclay,  City  of  Great  King,  p.  205,  208) ; but  this  part 
was  rather  called  the  Valley  of  Gihon. — Kitto;  Smith. 
See  Giiion. 

Hinrichs,  Hermann  Friedrich  Wilhelm,  a Ger- 
man philosopher  of  the  old  Hegelian  school,  was  bom  at 
Karlseck,  in  Oldenburg,  August  22, 1794.  In  1812  he 
entered  the  University  of  Strasburg  as  a student  of  the- 
ology, but  changed  for  law  in  1813  at  Heidelberg.  Here 
he  studied  under  Creuzer  and  Hegel,  and  became  a pri- 
vatdocent  in  1814.  In  1822  he  was  called  to  the  Uni- 
versity of  Breslau  as  a professor  of  philosophy.  In  1824 
Halle  gave  him  a call,  which  he  accepted,  and  here  he 
remained  until  his  death,  August  17,  1861.  The  work 
which  gave  to  him  particular  prominence  as  a HegcL. 
was  his  Die  Reliyion  im  innern  Verhaltniss  zur  1 Vissen- 
schaft  (Ileidelb.  1822),  an  essay  that  gained  him  a prize 
sustained  by  Hegel  himself. — Brockliaus,  Conr.  Lex.  vii, 
933 ; Vapereau,  Did.  ties  Contemp.  p,  885.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hinton,  Isaac  Taylor,  a Baptist  preacher  and  au- 
thor of  note,  was  horn  at  Oxford,  England,  in  1799.  His 
father,  who  was  teacher  in  a boys’  school  of  considerable 
repute,  superintended  his  son’s  education.  At  the  age 
of  fifteen  young  Hinton  was  apprenticed  at  the  “ Clar- 
endon Press,”  and  in  1820  he  set  up  as  a printer  and 
publisher.  He  edited  and  printed  the  Sunday  Scholars' 
Magazine.  In  1821  he  was  converted  and  baptized.  He 
was  soon  licensed  to  preach,  continuing,  however,  in  busi- 
ness, which  he  removed  to  London.  He  also  assisted  his 
brother,  John  Howard  Hinton,  in  preparing  a History  of 
the  U nited States,  in  two  quarto  volumes,  with  100  engrav- 
ings. While  thus  engaged,  his  republican  feelings  were 
so  developed  that  he  decided  to  emigrate  to  this  coun- 
try. He  arrived  at  Philadelphia  in  1832.  I lis  services 
as  a preacher  were  much  sought,  but  he  had  resolved  on 
fixing  his  residence  in  the  West.  He  was,  however,  in- 
duced to  accept  the  pastorate  of  the  First  Baptist  Church 
in  Bichmond,Va.  The  church  had  a large  colored  mem- 
bership, a fact  from  which  some  embarrassment  was  ex- 
perienced by  him  in  the  consistent  application  of  his 
principles.  This,  in  connection  with  his  original  predi- 
lections, led  to  his  removal  in  1835  to  Chicago,  then  in 
its  infancy.  The  Church  was  unable  to  give  him  a suffi- 
cient support,  and  he  was  compelled  to  engage  in  teach- 
ing. 1 1 is  congregations  were  large,  and  he  delivered  a 
course  of  lectures  on  the  Prophecies,  which  attracted 
much  attention.  The  financial  disasters  of  1837,  how- 
ever, depressed  the  material  prosperity  of  his  Church, 
and  differences  on  the  slavery  question  divided  it.  In 
1841  he  removed  to  St.  Louis,  where  he  labored  for  about 
three  years,  and  enjoyed  repeated  seasons  of  revival  and 
ingathering.  In  1844  he  accepted  a call  to  New  Or- 
leans, where  he  had  every  prospect  of  success  and  use- 
fulness, but  his  labors  were  cut  short  bv  the  yellow  fe- 
ver. He  died  in  1847.  His  lectures  on  Prophecy,  above 
referred  to,  were  repeated  in  St.  Louis,  and  were  pub- 
lished afterwards  under  the  title  The  Prophecies  of  Dan- 
iel and  John  illustrated  by  the  Erents  of  History.  He  ' 
also  published  a History  of  Baptism,  from  Inspired  and  \ 
Uninspired  Sources.  He  was  diligent,  enthusiastic,  yet  | 
cautious  and  investigating  in  his  habit  of  mind,  genial 
in  his  private  intercourse,  and  an  impressive  public 
speaker.  His  ardor  and  energy  fitted  him  for  the  work  ! 
of  which  he  did  so  much,  that  of  a pioneer,  founding 
and  building  up  churches.  (L.  E.  S.) 

Hiouen-tsang,  a celebrated  Buddhist  traveller  of 
China,  was  born  A.D.  603.  At  the  age  of  twenty  he 
took  priest’s  orders.  Even  at  this  early  age  he  had  be-  ’ 
come  famous  for  his  vast  information,  especially  in  the 
Buddhist  faith,  and  in  the  doctrines  of  Confucius  and 
Laotse.  A desire  to  study  the  origin  of  Buddhism  made 
him  overcome  all  the  obstacles  in  his  way,  and  he  set 
out  on  a journey  to  India  in  the  first  half  of  the  7th  cen- 
tury (629).  He  travelled  sixteen  years  in  that  country, 
and  on  his  return  wrote  a work  describing  his  travels, 
which  were  published  under  the  auspices  of  the  Chinese 


emperor  of  his  time.  In  this  work  he  gave  a very  de- 
tailed  and  interesting  account  of  the  condition  of  Buddh- 
ism as  it  prevailed  at  that  period  in  India.  Ilis  inqui- 
ries having  been  chiefly  devoted  to  Buddhism,  he  did 
not  enter  much  into  details  concerning  the  social  and 
political  condition  of  the  country;  but  many  curious  no- 
tices which  he  gives  on  other  matters,  besides  those  of 
Buddhist  interest  that  came  under  his  observation,  and 
the  high  degree  of  trustworthiness  which  his  narrative 
possesses,  makes  it  one  of  the  most  important  works  oil 
the  history  of  India  in  general,  and  of  Buddhism  in  par- 
ticular, during  this  period.  lie  travelled  alone,  or  with 
a few  occasional  companions,  wearing  the  garb  of  a re- 
ligious mendicant,  from  China  to  India.  He  brought 
with  him  on  his  return  to  his  native  country,  besides 
images  of  Buddha  and  various  sacred  relics,  an  immense 
collection  of  works,  the  extent  of  which  may  be  esti- 
mated from  the  statement  of  M tiller,  “ It  is  said  that 
the  number  of  works  translated  by  Hiouen-tsang,  with 
the  assistance  of  a large  staff  of  monks,  amounted  to 
740,  in  1335  volumes”  {Chips,  i,  272).  He  died  A.l>. 
664.  Two  of  his  friends  and  pupils  have  left  an  account 
of  their  instructor,  and  M.  Stanislas  Jnlien,  who  has 
lately  translated  the  travels  of  Hiouen-tsang  from  Chi- 
nese into  French  {Voyages  dts  Pelevins  Pouddhistes,  2 
vols.  8vo,  Paris,  1853-1857),  prefixes  a translation  of 
this  biography  to  the  translation  of  the  travels  of  lli- 
ouen-tsang.  An  abstract  of  this  work,  by  the  late  Pro- 
fessor II.  II.  Wilson,  appeared  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal 
Asiatic  Society , xvii,  106-137.  A very  full  account  of 
the  life  and  works  of  Hiouen-tsang  is  given  by  Max 
Midler  (Chips),  with  a review  of  the  translation  of  M. 
Julicn. — INI idler,  Chips  from  a German  Workshop,  i,  232- 
275;  Julien,  llistoire  de  la  Vie  de  Hiouen-tsang;  Memoires 
sur  les  Contrees  Occidentales,  par  Hiouen-tsang ; Hoefer, 
Xouu.  Bioq.  Gene?-,  xxiv,  715  sq. ; Chambers,  Encyclop.  v, 
372.  (J.il.W.) 

Hip  (pi'j,  shok,  usually  “shoulder”)  occurs  in  the 
A. Y.  only  in  the  phrase  “ hip  and  thigh”  (lit.  leg  upon 
thigh),  in  the  account  of  Samson’s  slaughter  of  the  Phil- 
istines (Judg.xv,  8) ; evidently  a proverbial  phrase,  i.e. 
“he  cut  them  in  pieces  so  that  their  limbs, their  legs 
and  their  thighs,  were  scattered  one  upon  another,  q.d. 
he  totally  destroyed  them”  (Gesenius).  See  Samson. 

Hip,  in  architecture,  is  the  external  angle  formed  by 
the  meeting  of  the  slop-  ,, 

ing  sides  of  a roof  which 
have  their  wall-plates 
running  in  different  di- 
rections: thus, when  a 
roof  has  the  end  sloped 
back,  instead  of  finishing  J 
with  a gable,  the  pieces 
of  timber  in  these  angles 
arc  called  hip-rafters,  and 
the  tiles  with  which  they  The  ques  bc,  „,e  the  hips, 
arc  covered  arc  called 

hip-tiles.  The  internal  angles  formed  by  the  meeting 
of  the  sides  are  termed  valleys,  whether  the  latter  be 
horizontal  or  sloping,  and  the  piece  of  timber  that  sup- 
ports a sloping  valley  is  termed  the  valley  refer.  Such 
a roof  is  called  a hip-roof. — Parker,  Glossary. 

Hip-knob.  Sec  Finial. 

Hippicus  (' I ttttikoc,  equestrian),  the  name  given  by 
Herod  (in  honor  of  one  of  his  generals)  to  that  one  of 
the  three  towers  (Josephus,  War,  ii,  17,  9)  along  the  first 
wall  of  Jerusalem,  inclosing  Mount  Zion  on  the  north, 
which  lay  westernmost,  and  at  its  junction  with  the 
third  wall  (liar,  v,  4,  2),  being  built  up  with  immense 
strength  (ih.  3).  Its  remains  are  still  a very  prominent 
object  in  the  city  (Robinson,  Researches,  i,  453  sq.;  Bart- 
lett, Walks  about  Jenisalem,  p.  85  sq.).  Schwarz  ab- 
surdly identifies  it  {Palest,  p.  251)  with  the  tower  ot  Han- 
aneel  (q.  v.)  of  Jer.  xxxi,38,  on  the  authority  of  Jona- 
than’s Targum,  which  there  has  “the  tower  of  Pilcus 
(D1p”E).”  See  Jerusalem. 


HIPPO 


268 


IIIPPOLYTUS 


Hippo,  in  Africa,  now  called  Bona , a maritime  col- 
ony. (See  Schaff,  Ch.  Hist,  iii,  993,  note  1.)  A general 
council  was  held  at  this  place  in  393.  Aurelius,  bishop 
of  Carthage,  presided.  Augustine  made  a discourse  be- 
fore the  council  on  tlie  subject  of  faith,  the  Creed,  and 
against  the  Manichaeans.  Forty-one  canons  were  agreed 
to,  which  were  taken  as  the  model  for  after  councils. 
“ The  first  express  definition  of  the  N.-T.  Canon,  in  the 
form  in  which  it  has  since  been  universally  retained, 
was  fixed  at  the  council  of  A.D.  393,  at  Hippo.”  Anoth- 
er council  was  held  in  426,  in  which  Augustine  appoint- 
ed Eradius  his  successor,  requiring  Eraditis,  however,  in 
accordance  with  the  canon  of  Nicaea,  to  remain  in  his 
priestly  office  until  Augustine’s  death. — Smith,  Tables 
of  Church  History ; Landon,  Manual  of  Councils;  Schaff, 
Church  History,  i,  § 75;  iii.  609. 

Hippolytus,  St.  (\7nro\vT0c),  the  name  of  sev- 
eral saints  and  martyrs  of  the  early  Church,  especially 
that  celebrated  one  of  the  fathers  of  the  Church  who 
probably  lived  in  the  early  part  of  the  3d  century. 
Every  particular  of  his  life  has  been  made  a point 
of  controversy.  Thus  the  oldest  ecclesiastical  writers 
who  make  any  mention  of  him,  Eusebius  and  Jerome, 
give  him  the  title  of  bishop,  but  without  stating  of 
what  see,  the  latter  even  saying  that  he  was  unable 
to  ascertain  this  point.  “The  Chronicon  Paschale,  our 
earliest  authority,  makes  him  ‘bishop  of  the  so-called 
Portus,  near  Rome and  as  this  statement  is  supported 
by  the  authority  of  Cyril,  Zonaras.  Anastasius,  Nicepho- 
ros, and  Syncellus  (see  Bunsen’s  Hippolytus,  i,  205),  and 
as  Prudent  ins  (lib.  tt  (pi  arf(pavujv,  Hymn  ix)  describes 
his  martyrdom  as  having  taken  place  at  Ostia,  close  by 
Portus,  most  critics  will  probably  regard  this  point  as 
finally  settled.  His  mastery  of  the  Greek  language 
would  render  him  peculiarly  fit  to  be  a ‘ bishop  of  the 
nations,’  who  frequented  the  harbor  of  Rome  in  multi- 
tudes. In  spite  of  Jacobi’s  assertion  (see  below)  to  the 
contrary,  there  seems  to  be  no  reason  why  he  should  not 
at  the  same  time  have  been  (what  the  "EXtyyoe  shows 
him  to  have  been)  a presbyter  and  head  of  a party  at 
Rome.  We  know,  further,  that  he  was  a disciple  of  Ire- 
nasus  (Phot.  Cod.  121),  and  was  engaged  in  some  warm 
disputes  with  Callistus  on  points  of  doctrine  and  disci- 
pline, which  are  graphically  described  in  his  recovered 
book,  Kara  Tcaauji>  aipiatiov  t'Xtyyot;”  (Kitto,  Cyclop,  s. 
v.).  On  the  other  hand,  the  treatise  De  duabus  Xaturis, 
attributed  to  pope  Gelasius  I,  gives  Hippolytus  the  title 
of  metropolitan  of  Arabia.  Le  Movnc  even  indicated  a 
town  of  the  district  of  Aden,  called  Portus  llomanus,  on 
account  of  its  being  the  great  mart  of  Roman  trade  in 
the  East,  as  the  seat  of  his  bishopric.  The  same  uncer- 
tainty exists  with  regard  to  the  time  in  which  he  lived. 
Eusebius  places  him  in  the  first  half  of  the  3d  century, 
l’hotius  states  that  he  was  a disciple  of  Irenasus ; Baroni- 
ns says,  of  Clement  of  Alexandria ; two  assertions  which 
appear  equally  well  grounded.  Portius  adds  that  Hip- 
polytus was  the  intimate  friend  and  zealous  admirer  of 
Origen,  and  that  he  invited  him  to  comment  on  the 
Scriptures,  furnishing  him  for  that  purpose  seven  aman- 
uenses to  write  under  his  dictation,  and  seven  copyists. 
Hippolytus  himself  testifies  to  his  acquaintance  with 
Origen.  As  for  the  other  details  given  by  Photius,  thov 
are  based  on  a misinterpretation  of  a passage  in  Jerome. 
According  to  this  father,  Ambrosins  of  Alexandria,  stmek 
with  the  reputation  Hippolytus  had  acquired  by  his 
commentaries  on  the  Scriptures,  invited  Origen  to  at- 
tempt the  same  task,  and  furnished  him  with  a number 
of  secretaries  for  that  purpose.  The  martyrdom  of  St. 

1 1 ippolvtus  is  not  mentioned  by  Eusebius.  Jerome,  Pho- 
tius,  and  other  writers,  however,  call  him  a martyr,  and 
his  name  appears  with  that  title  in  the  Roman,  Greek, 
Coptic,  anil  Abyssinian  calendars.  Yet  these  martvrol- 
ogies  differ  so  much  from  each  other  that  they  appear 
rather  to  refer  to  different  parties  of  the  same  name 
than  to  one  individual  only.  Priulentius,  a Christian 
poet  of  the  4th  century,  wrote  a long  poem  on  the  mar- 
t yrdom  of  St.  Hippolytus,  but  it  is  evident  that  he  also 


confounded  several  parties  of  that  name,  and  his  pious 
legend  is  devoid  of  all  historical  authority.  The  date 
of  St.  Hippolytus’s  death  is  very  doubt  fid.  It  is  gener- 
ally believed  to  have  occurred  under  Alexander  Sev- 
erus,  yet  it  is  well  known  that  this  prince  did  not  perse- 
cute Christians.  If  we  admit  that  the  Exhortatorius 
ad  Sererinam,  mentioned  among  Hippolytus’s  works,  is 
the  same  which  Theodoret  states  was  addressed  to  a cer- 
tain queen  or  empress  (7T(0ot;  fiaoiXiSa  nva),  and,  fur- 
ther, that  this  Severina,  according  to  Dbllinger  (see  be- 
low), was  the  wife  of  the  emperor  Philip  the  Arabian, 
this  would  bring  the  martyrdom  of  the  saint  to  the  time 
of  Decius's  persecution  (about  250),  and  perhaps  later.  In 
that  case,  Hippolytus,  having  been  a disciple  of  I r eme- 
us, who  died  about  190,  must  have  been  quite  advanced 
in  age  at  the  time  of  his  death.  It  is  generally  supposed 
that  he  suffered  martyrdom  near  Rome,  probably  at  the 
mouth  of  the  'fiber.  According  to  general  opinion,  it 
is  thought  he  was  thrown  into  the  sea  with  a stone  tied 
around  his  neck.  In  1551  a statue  was  discovered  at 
Rome,  near  the  church  of  St.  Lorenzo,  which  appeared 
to  date  back  to  the  6th  century,  and  represented  a man 
in  monastic  garb,  in  a sitting  posture.  The  inscription 
bore  the  name  of  Hippolytus,  bishop  of  Portns,  and  on 
the  back  of  his  seat  was  found  inscribed  the  canon  or 
paschal  cycle  which  he  introduced  into  Rome,  and  also 
a list  of  his  principal  works.  Some  of  these  works,  men- 
tioned by  Eusebius,  Jerome,  Photius,  and  other  ecclesi- 
astical writers,  or  named  on  the  statne,  are  yet  extant, 
and  we  have  extensive  fragments  of  several  others.  A 
number  of  them  have  been  published  separately.  Fa- 
bricius  gave  a complete  collection  of  them  under  the  title 
S.  Hippolyti,  episcopi  et  martyris,  Opera  non  antea  col- 
lecta  et  partem  nunc  primum  e MSS.  in  lucem  edita,  Greeie 
et  Latine  (Hamb.  1716-1718,  fol.).  This  was  reprinted, 
with  additions  by  Galland,and  inserted  in  his  Bibliotheca 
Patrum  (Venice,  1766,  fol.),  vol.  ii.  A collection  of  frag- 
ments of  Syriac  translations  of  Hippolytus  is  given  in 
the  A nalecta  of  Lagarde.  The  same  scholar,  in  an  ap- 
pendix to  his  A nalecta  (Lagarilii  ad  Analecta  sua  Syr- 
iaca  Appendix  [Lips.  1858]),  gives  Arabic  fragments  of 
a commentary  of  Hippolytus  on  Revelation. 

A recent  discovery  has  directed  general  attention  to 
this  old  ecclesiastical  writer.  In  1842  M.  Mynoide  Mi- 
nas, on  his  return  from  a mission  on  which  he  had  been 
sent  by  M.  Villemain,  minister  of  public  instruction  in 
France,  brought  back  from  Mount  Athos,  among  other 
unpublished  works,  a mutilated  Greek  MS.  of  the  14th 
century,  written  on  cotton  paper,  without  name  of  au- 
thor, and  containing  a Refutation  of  all  Heresies  (tcard 
7 -aoow  aiptotiov  tXtyyof).  This  MS.  was  deposited  in 
the  Imperial  Library  at  Paris,  where  it  remained  undis- 
turbed until  M.  Emmanuel  Miller  found  it  to  contain 
the  last  part  of  a treatise,  the  beginning  of  which  was 
printed  in  the  works  of  Origen.  At  Miller’s  reqnest,  the 
University  of  Oxford  consented  to  publish  it,  under  his 
direction,  at  their  own  press,  with  the  title,  *Q piyevovg 
<pi\ooo(povpii'a  ij  Kara  Traauiu  aipsatuiv  iXty\0Q  ( Ori - 
penis  Philosophumena  sire  omnium  Ileeresium  Refvtatio : 
e Codice  Parisino  nunc  primum  edidit  Emmanuel  Mil- 
ler [Oxford,  1851, 8voJ).  This  work  attracted  great  at- 
tention among  the  theologians  and  philologists  of  Ger- 
many anil  France,  as  well  as  of  England.  The  first 
argument  published  to  show  that  Hippolytus  was  the 
author  of  the  MS.  may  be  found  in  the  Methodist  Quar- 
terly Review  for  October,  1851,  in  an  article  by  professor 
J.  L.  Jacobi,  of  the  University  of  Berlin.  After  prov- 
ing that  Origen  was  not  the  author,  Jacobi  shows  that 
the  writer  was  certainly  contemporary  with  Origen. 
“ He  places  himself  in  that  age,  and  all  his  statements 
harmonize  with  this  view.  Taking  him,  then,  to  have 
lived  in  the  first  quarter  of  the  3d  century,  at  the  time 
of  Zephyrinus,  bishop  of  Rome,  and  of  Callistus,  we 
should  be  led  by  Eusebius  to  identify  him  with  the 
learned  presbyter  Caius,  or  with  Hippolytus.  It  is  easi- 
ly shown,  however,  that  Caius  could  not  have  been  the 
author  of  the  book,  for  he  was  specially  distinguished 


HIPPOLYTUS 


269 


HIPPOLYTUS 


for  his  writings  against  Cerintlius,  ami  for  his  peculiar 
views  with  regard  to  that  Gnostic  leader;  while  our  au- 
thor has  nothing  of  his  own  to  offer  about  Ccrinthus, 
and  borrows  all  that  he  does  say  (and  that  is  not  much), 
word  for  word,  from  Irena1  us.  Caius  ascribed  the  Apoc- 
alypse to  Cerintlius — our  author  assigns  it  to  the  apos- 
tle John.  The  former  was  a strenuous  opponent  of  the 
sensual  Chiliasm ; the  latter,  while  he  blames  much  in 
Montanism,  does  not  include  Chiliasm  under  it,  and  in- 
deed it  is  more  than  probable  that  he  was  a friend  of 
that  doctrine.”  On  the  other  hand,  there  are  the  fol- 
lowing, among  other  reasons,  for  ascribing  the  work  to 
Hippolvtus.  (1.)  A work  bearing  the  same  or  a similar 
title  was  ascribed  by  Eusebius,  Jerome,  Epiplianius,  and 
Nicephorus  to  Ilippolvtus.  (2.)  The  monument  dug  up 
at  Home  (see  above)  has  on  it  the  names  of  writings 
which  the  author  of  the  treatise  on  heresies  claims  as 
his  own.  (3.)  The  internal  evidence  is  all  in  favor  of 
Hippolvtus.  Professor  Jacobi  developed  the  argument 
at  greater  length  in  the  Deutsche  Zeitsch  rift  fur  Christ!. 
IVissenschaft  (1852),  and  Dr.  Duncker  followed  in  the 
Gdttiwjer  gelehrtc  Anzeigen  (1851).  But  the  most  ear- 
nest work  on  the  subject  was  done  by  the  Chevalier 
Bunsen,  who  canvassed  the  whole  cpiestion  with  great 
learning  in  his  copious  and  somewhat  clumsy  book , Hip- 
po! gtus  and  his  Age,  or  the  Doctrine  and  Practice  of  the 
Church  of  Pome  under  Commodus  and  Alexander  Sere- 
nes, and  ancient  and  modern  Christianitg  and  Divinity 
compared  (Lond.  1852,  4 vols.  8vo).  In  this  work  it  is, 
we  think,  established  beyond  a doubt  that  the  Refuta- 
tion of  all  Heresies  was  written  by  Hippolvtus,  bishop 
of  Port  us,  near  Pome,  in  the  first  quarter  of  the  3d  cen- 
tury. Several  writers,  however,  objected  to  some  of 
Bunsen’s  conclusions,  and  he  replied  to  them  by  repub- 
lishing his  work,  greatly  enlarged,  under  the  title  Chris- 
tianity and  Mankind  (London,  1854,  7 vols.  8vo).  This 
work  is  full  of  erudition,  but  often  advances  hasty  state- 
ments and  unauthorized  conclusions. 

The  importance  of  this  newly-discovered  work  of 
Ilippolytus  in  the  sphere  of  Church  History  and  archae- 
ology can  hardly  be  overstated.  It  throws  great  light 
upon  the  Gnostic  and  other  heretical  sects  of  the  early 
Church.  Names  and  even  facts  are  given  of  which  we 
knew  absolutely  nothing  before ; while  others  that  were 
held  to  be  as  unimportant  as  they  were  obscure  are 
brought  out  into  light  and  prominence,  illuminating 
many  dark  nooks  of  Church  History.  The  book  tells 
us,  for  instance,  of  a Gnostic,  by  name  Justin,  of  whom 
we  had  not  before  heard;  and  describes  at  length  Mo- 
noiamos  and  the.  Peratieians,  of  whom  we  knew  only 
the  names.  The  Simonians,  and  the  strange,  fragmen- 
tary, and  enigmatical  ideas  generally  attributed  to  Si- 
mon Magus,  are  here  treated  with  something  approach- 
ing to  orderly  and  clear  connection.  That  part  of  the 
work  which  treats  of  the  morals  of  the  Boman  Church 
and  of  its  clergy  is  full  of  interest.  Hippolvtus  cen- 
sures them  for  imehastity,  and  casts  it  up  to  them  as  a 
great  reproach  that  many,  even  of  the  higher  orders  of 
clergy,  were  married — some,  of  them  more  than  once. 
His  account  of  Callistus  throws  much  light  upon  the 
state  of  society  and  of  religion  in  Pome  at  the  time. 
The  work  shows  us  also  that  the  received  uoetrine  of  the 
Church  at  that  time — a century  before  the  Council  of 
Nice — was  the  orthodox  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  and  the 
person  of  Christ.  Its  revelations  are  fatal,  too,  to  many 
of  the  claims  of  the  papacy.  Romanist  writers,  there- 
fore, have  sought  to  invalidate  the  conclusions  drawn 
by  Jacobi,  Bunsen,  and  the  Protestants  generally.  Pro- 
fessor Dbllinger  seeks  to  refute  the  “ calumnies”  of  the 
book  against  Callistus  in  his  Ilippolytus  mid  Kallistus 
(Batisb.  1853, 8vo),  and  to  settle  the  question  of  the  au- 
thorship of  the  Philosophoumena.  He  undertakes  to 
show  also  from  the  character  of  the  work  itself  that  the 
author  was  not  a Catholic,  but  a heretic,  in  the  judgment 
of  the  Church  of  the  age  when  he  wrote  it.  The  abbe 
Cruiee,  of  Paris,  published  Etudes  stir  les . . .Philosophou- 
mena (Paris,  1853, 8vo),  to  show  that  the  book  is  neither 


genuine  nor  authentic;  and  he  has  since  followed  it  up 
by  his  Ilistoire  de  V Eylise  de  Rome  sous  les  Pmtijicats 
de  St.  Victor,  St.  Zephyrin,  et  St.  Calliste  (Paris,  185(5). 
He  has  also  published  an  elegant  edition  of  the  Philoso- 
phoumena, with  Latin  version,  notes,  and  indexes  (Par. 
18(51,  8vo).  The  best  edition  of  the  work,  however, 
is  that  of  Duncker  and  Sclieidewin  (Gottingen,  1851), 
8vo).  Another  edition,  which  embraces  all  the  Greek 
works  of  Ilippolytus,  was  published  by  Lagarde  ( 11  ip- 
poly  ti  Romani  quec  feruntur  omnia  Grace,  Lcips.  1858). 
I’he  subject  is  very  ably  treated  in  its  theological  as- 
pects, especially  in  their  bearing  on  the  Romish  contro- 
versy, by  Wordsworth,  Ilippolytus  and  the  Church  of 
Rome  (London,  1852, 8vo).  A very  good  account  of  the 
history  and  contents  of  the  book,  with  an  English  trans- 
lation of  the  most  important  parts,  is  given  by  Tavlcr, 
Ilippolytus  and  the  Christian  Church  of  the  Third  Cen- 
tury (Loud.  1853,  12mo),  and  by  Yolk  mar,  Ilippolytus  u. 
d.  ram.  Zeitgenossen  (Zurich,  1855).  The  leading  re- 
views have  generally  given  articles  on  the  subject:  see 
especially  Methodist  Quarterly  Review,  Oct.  1851  ; Jan. 
18(53,  p.  l" GO ; Quarterly  Rev.  (Lond.)  lxxxix,87 ; Journ. 
of  Sacred  Literature , Jan.  1853,  and  Jan.  1854;  X.Erif. 
Review,  Nov.  1854;  Edinburgh  Review,  Jan.  1853;  Illgcn, 
Zeitsch  riji  f.  hist.  Theolog.  1842,  iii,  48-77 ; 18(52,  ii,  218; 
Journal  des  Debats,  Dec.  1852;  Baur,  Theolog.  Jahrbii- 
cher  (Tubingen,  1853);  Studien  v.  Kritikev,  by  Gieschr 
(1853).  Another  important  work  ascribed  to  Hippoly- 
tus,  a collection  of  canons,  has  lately  been  published  for 
the  first  time,  in  an  Arabic  translation,  by  Dr.  llambcrg 
( Canones  S.  llippolyti  A rubice  e codicibus  Romanis  cum 
versione  Latina,  annotationibus  et  prolegomenis,  Munich, 
1870).  The  collection  contains  thirty -eight  canons 
which  are  known  to  have  been  in  use  in  the  12th  cen- 
tury in  the  Coptic  Church.  Before  this  time  no  mcn- 
i tion  is  made  of  this  work  by  any  ecclesiastical  writer; 
but  the  editor  regards  this  as  no  argument  against  its 
authenticity  (which  he  defends),  as  all  the  works  of 
Ilippolytus  had  fallen  into  oblivion.  In  ease  it  is  gen- 
uine, its  contents  are  of  considerable  importance  for  the 
history  of  Christian  doctrines  and  on  the  constitution  of 
the  Christian  Church. 

Lipsius,  in  his  work  Zur  Qnellenkritik  der  lipiphanios 
(Vienna,  1865),  has  shown  that  the  work  of  Ilippolytus 
! against  thirty-two  sects,  the  conclusion  of  which  is  still 
extant  under  the  title  of  a homily  against  the  heresy  of 
Noctus,  is  the  basis  of  the  Philosophoumena,  and  can,  to 
a large  extent,  be  reconstructed  from  it.  Sec  also  Sehaff, 
Church  History,  x ol.  i,  § 125;  Hare,  Contest  with  Rome, 
p.  214 ; Neander,  History  of  Dogmas,  i,  51 ; Milnian,  Lot. 
Christ.  i,66sq.;  Lardner,  I Porta,  ii,  409  sq.;  Herzog,  Real- 
Encyklop.  vi,  131  sq. ; lloefer,  Nouv.  Riog.  Genii-,  xxiv, 
777  sq. ; Chambers,  Cyclopeedia,  v,  376 ; and,  for  the  Bo- 
man Catholic  side,  Wctzcr  mid  Weltc,  Kirehen  Lcxilor , 
v,  210  sq. ; Allgem.  Reed-Encykhp.f  d.  Kathol.  Deutsch- 
land, v,  374.  Early  monographs  on  Ilippolytus  were 
written  by  Frommann,  Interpret/.  New  Test,  ex  Ilippol. 
(Coblentz,  1765, 4to) ; C.  G.  lliinell,  De  Ilippol.  (Gutting. 
1838, 8vo) ; Heumann,  Vbi  et  quetlis  tpiscop.  f uerit  llip- 
polytus  (Gutting.  1737, 4tc>) ; Woog.  Fragment,  llippolyti 
Martyris  (Lips.  1762,  4to).  On  the  earlier  writings  of 
Hippolvtus,  see  Clarke,  Succession  of  Sacred  Literature, 
i,  158 ; Eusebius,  Ilist.Eceles.  vi,  20-23 ; Lardner,  Credi- 
bility of  the  Gospel  History,  ii,  35;  Tillemont,  Mimoires, 
etc.!  iii,  104 ; Neander,  Ch.  Hist,  cent.  iii.  pt.  ii.  cli.  ii,  § 7. 

Hippolytus,  Bkotiif.ks  (or  Hospital  Monks  ) of 
the  Christian  Love  of,  a monastic  order  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church,  established  about  1585  by  Bernardin 
Alvarez,  a citizen  of  Mexico,  for  nursing  the  sick.  It 
was  sanctioned  by  the  popes  Sixtus  V and  Clement  VII I, 
and  received  the  same  rights  as  the  order  of  Brothers  of 
Charity  which  had  been  established  by  St.  Johannes  a 
Deo,  and  with  which  it  had  statutes,  aim,  and  dress  in 
common.  It  only  differs  from  it  by  the  color  of  the 
monastic  dress.  The  order  was  named  after  the  patron 
saint  of  the  city  of  Mexico,  in  commemoration  of  the 
fall  of  paganism,  and  the  capture  of  the  city  of  Mexico 


HIPPOPOTAMUS 


270 


HIPPOPOTAMUS 


by  the  Christians  on  the  day  of  St.Hippolytus  (August 
13).  It  never  spread  beyond  Spanish  America.  (A.  J.  S.) 


Hospital  Monk  of  St.  Hippolytus. 


Hippopotamus,  an  animal  regarded  by  Bochart 
(Ilieroz.  iii,  705),  Ludolf  {Hist.  sEthiop.  i,  11),  Shaw 
( Trav. . ii,  299,  Loud.  8vo),  Scheuzer  ( Phys . Sac.  on  Job 
xl),  Rosenmiiller  (Not.  ad  Bochart.  Hieroz.  iii,  705,  and 
Schol.ad  Vet.  Test,  in  Job  xl),  Taylor  ( Appendix  to  Cal- 
met's  Did.  Bihl.  No.  lxv),  Harmer  ( Observations , ii,  319), 
Gesenius  (Thes.  s.  v.  Fiirst  ( Concord . lleb.  s.  v.), 

and  English  commentators  generally,  as  being  desig- 
nated by  the  Heb.  word  ( behemoth ' in  Job  xl, 

15),  by  which,  however,  some  writers,  as  Vatablus,  Dru- 
sius.  Grotius  (Crit.  Sac.  A nnotationis  ad  Job.  xl),  Pfeiffer, 
(Dubia  vexata  S.  S.,  p.  594,  Dresden,  1679),  Castell  (Lex. 
Ilept.  p.  292).  A.  Schultens  ( Comment . in  Job.  xl),  Mi- 
cliaelis  ( Suppl . ad  Lex.  lleb.  No.  208),  have  understood 
the  elephant;  while  others,  again,  amongst  whom  is 
Lee  (Comment. on  Job.  xl,  and  Lex.  Heb.  s.v.  niSHS),  con- 
sider the  Hebrew  term  as  a plural  noun  fur  “cattle"  in 
general ; it  being  left  to  the  reader  to  apply  to  the  scrip- 
tural allusions  the  particular  animal,  which  may  be,  ac- 
cording to  Lee, “either  the  horse,  or  wild  ass,  or  wild 
bulT’O).  Compare  also  Reiske,  Conjectural  in  Job.  p.  167. 
Dr.  Mason  Good  (Book  of  Job  literally  translated , p.  473, 
Loud.  1712)  has  hazarded  a conjecture  that  the  behemoth 
denotes  some  extinct  pachyderm  like  the  mammoth, 
with  a view  to  combine  the  characteristics  of  the  hippo- 
potamus and  elephant,  and  so  to  fulfil  all  the  scriptural 
demands.  Compare  with  this  Michaelis  (Sup.  ad  Lex. 
lleb.  No.  208),  and  Hasaeus  (in  Dissertat.  Syllog.  No.  vii, 
§ 3/,  and  § 38,  p.  506),  who  rejects  with  some  scorn  the 
notion  of  the  identity  of  behemoth  and  mammoth.  Dr. 
Kitto  (Piet.  Bib.  Job  xl)  and  Colonel  Hamilton  Smith 
(Kitto’s  Cycl.  Bib.  Lit.  art.  Behemoth),  from  being  una- 
ble to  make  all  the  scriptural  details  correspond  with 
any  one  particular  animal,  are  of  opinion  that  behemoth 
is  a plural  term,  and  is  to  be  taken  as  a poetical  person- 
ification of  the  great  paehydermata  generally,  wherein 
the  idea  of  hippopotamus  is  predominant.  The  term 
behemoth  would  thus  be  the  counteqiart  of  leviathan,  the 
animal  mentioned  next  in  the  book  of  Job;  which  word, 
although  its  signification  in  that  passage  is  restricted  to 
the  crocodile,  does  yet  stand  in  Scripture  for  a python,  or 
a whale,  or  some  other  huge  monster  of  the  deep.  See 
Leviathan.  According  to  the  Talmud,  behemoth  is 
some  huge  land-animal  which  daily’-  consumes  the  grass 
off  a thousand  hills ; he  is  to  have,  at  some  future  period, 
a battle  with  leviathan.  On  account  of  his  grazing  on 
the  mountains,  he  is  called  “ the  bull  of  the  high  moun- 
tains.” (See  Lewysohn,  Zool.  des  Talnvtds , p.  355). 
“ The  1 fathers,’  for  the  most  part,”  says  Cary  (Job,  p. 
402),  “ surrounded  the  subject  with  an  awe  equally 
dreadful,  and  in  the  behemoth  here,  and  in  the  levia- 


than of  the  next  chapter,  saw  nothing  but  mystical  rep- 
resentations of  the  devil:  others,  again,  have  here  pic- 
tured to  themselves  some  hieroglyphic  monster  that  has 
no  real  existence;  but  these  wild  imaginations  are  sur- 
passed by  that  of  llolducius,  who  in  the  behemoth  actu- 
ally beholds  Christ !” 

The  following  reasons  seem  clearly  to  identify  it  with 
the  hippopotamus.  1.  The  meaning  of  the  original  icord 
itself.  Gesenius  (Thesaurus,  p.  183),  with  whom  also 
Fiirst  agrees  (lleb.  Lex.  s.  v.),  holds  it  not  to  be  a Heb. 
plur.,  but  the  Coptic  be-hemout,  “ the  water-ox”  (see  Ja- 
blonskv,  Opusc.  i,  52),  equivalent  to  the  'hnzoq  o nord/uog 
or  river-horse  of  the  ancients  (Herod,  ii,  71 ; Aristot. 
Anim. ii,  12  [4];  Diod. Sic. i, 35;  Pliny, viii, 39;  Ammian. 
Marcell,  xxii,  15 ; Abdollatif,  Denker.  p.  146  sq. ; Prosper 
Alpinus,  Res  sEg.  iv,  12  ; Ludolph,  Hist.  yEth.  i,  11,  and 
Comment,  p.  155  sq.;  Hasselquist,  Trav.  p.  280  sq.;  Sparr- 
mann,  Reise  druch  siidl.  A frica,  p.  562  sq. ; Riippell,  A rob. 
Petr.  p.  55  sq. ; comp.  Schneider,  Hist,  hippop.  vett.  crit.  in 
his  edit,  of  Artedi  Synon.  pise.  p.  247 sq.,  316  sq.;  Bochart, 
Ilieroz.  iii,  705  sq.;  Oken,  Zool.  ii,  718  sq.).  Poscnm Id- 
ler’s objection  to  the  Coptic  origin  of  the  word  is  worthy 
of  observation — that,  if  this  were  the  case,  the  Sept,  in- 
terpreters would  not  have  given  Gypia  as  its  represen- 
tative. Michaelis  translates  by  jumenta,  and 

thinks  the  name  of  the  elephant  has  dropped  out  (“Mihi 
videtur  nomen  elephantis  forte  excidisse”).  Many 
critics,  Posen miiller  amongst  the  number,  believe  the 
word  is  the  plural  majesiatis  of  But  in  that 

case  it  woidd  hardly  be  employed  with  a verb  or  adj. 
in  the  singular,  and  that  masc.,  as  it  is. 

2.  A careful  examination  of  the  text  shows  that  all 
the  details  descriptive  of  the  behemoth  accord  entirely 
with  the  ascertained  habits  of  that  animal.  Gesenius 
and  Rosenmiiller  have  remarked  that,  since  in  the  first 
part  of  Jehovah’s  discourse  (Job  xxxviii,  xxxix)  land 
animals  and  birds  are  mentioned,  it  suits  the  general 
purpose  of  that  discourse  better  to  suppose  that  aquatic 
or  amphibious  creatures  are  spoken  of  in  the  last  half 
of  it ; and  that  since  the  leviathan,  by  almost  universal 
consent,  denotes  the  crocodile,  the  behemoth  seems 
clearly  to  point  to  the  hippopotamus,  his  associate  in 
the  Nile.  Harmer  (Observations,  ii,  319)  says,  “There 
is  a great  deal  of  beauty  in  arranging  the  descrip- 
tions of  the  behemoth  and  the  leviathan,  for  in  the 
Mosaic  pavement  the  people  of  an  Egyptian  bark  are 
represented  as  darting  spears  or  some  such  weapons  at 
one  of  the  river-horses,  as  another  of  them  is  pictured 

with  two  sticking  near  his  shoulders It  was  then 

a customary  thing  with  the  old  Egyptians  thus  to  at- 
tack these  animals  (see  also  Wilkinson,  A nc.  Egypt,  iii, 
71)  ; if  so,  how  beautiful  is  the  arrangement : there  is  a 


Chase  of  the  Hippopotamus  (Wilkinson). 


most  happy  gradation ; after  a grand  but  just  repre- 
sentation of  the  terribleness  of  the  river-horse,  the  AJ- 


HIPPOPOTAMUS 


271 


HIPPOPOTAMUS 


mighty  is  represented  as  going  on  with  his  expostula- 
tions something  after  this  manner:  ‘But  dreadful  as 
this  animal  is,  barbed  irons  and  spears  have  sometimes 
prevailed  against  him;  but  what  wilt  thou  do  with  the 
crocodile?  Canst  thou  fill  his  skin  with  barbed  irons?’” 
etc.  In  the  Litkostrotum  Framestimm,  to  which  Mr. 
Harmer  refers,  there  are  two  crocodiles,  associates  of 
three  river-horses,  which  are  represented  without  spears 
sticking  in  them,  though  they  seem  to  be  within  shot. 
Behemoth  “eateth  grass  as  an  ox”  (Job  xl,  15) — a cir-  ' 
cumstance  which  is  noticed  as  peculiar  in  an  animal  of 
aquatic  habits;  this  is  strictly  true  of  the  hippopota- 
mus, which  leaves  the  water  by  night,  and  feeds  on  veg- 
etables and  green  crops.  Its  strength  is  enormous,  ver. 
16, 18,  and  the  notice  of  the  power  of  the  muscles  of  the 
belly,  “his  force  is  in  the  navel  of  his  belly,”  appears  to 
be  strictly  correct.  The  tail,  however,  is  short,  and  it 
must  be  conceded  that  the  first  part  of  verse  17,  “he 
moveth  his  tail  like  a cedar,”  seems  not  altogether  ap- 
plicable. Ilis  mode  of  attack  is  with  his  mouth,  which 
is  armed  with  a formidable  array  of  teeth,  projecting  in- 
cisors, and  enormous  curved  canines;  thus  “his  Creator 
offers  him  a sword,” for  so  the  words  in  ver.  19  may  be 
rendered.  But  the  use  of  his  sword  is  mainly  for  pacific 
purposes,  “the  beasts  of  the  field  playing”  about  him  as 
he  feeds;  the  hippopotamus  being  a remarkably  inof- 
fensive animal.  “ With  these  apparently  combined  teeth 
the  hippopotamus  can  cut  the  grass  as  neatly  as  if  it 
were  mown  with  the  scythe,  and  is  able  to  sever,  as  if 
with  shears,  a tolerably  thick  and  stout  stem”  (Wood’s 
Nat.  Hist,  i,  7G2).  ^^71  is  perhaps  the  Greek  upnr}.  See 
Bochart  (iii,  722),  who  cites  Nicander  ( Tlieriac . 566)  as 
comparing  the  tooth  of  this  animal  to  a scythe.  The 
next  verse  explains  the  purpose  and  use  of  the  “ scythe” 
with  which  God  has  provided  his  creature,  viz.,  in  or- 
der that  he  may  eat  the  grass  of  the  hills.  His  retreat 
is  among  the  lotuses  ( tzelim ; A.  V.  “ shady  trees”), 
which  abounded  about  the  Nile,  and  amid  the  reeds  of 
the  river.  Thoroughly  at  home  in  the  water, “if  the 
river  riseth,  he  doth  not  take  to  flight ; and  he  cares  not 
if  a Jordan  (here  an  appellative  for  a ‘stream’)  press  on 
his  mouth.”  Ordinary  means  of  capture  were  ineffectual 
against  the  great  strength  of  this  animal.  “ Will  any 
. akc  him  before  his  eyes?”  (i.  e.  openly,  and  without  cun- 
ning) ; “ will  any  bore  his  nose  with  a gin?”  as  was  usual 
,vith  large  animals.  Though  now  no  longer  found  in 
the  lower  Nile,  it  was  formerly  common  there  (Wilkin- 
son, i,  239).  The  method  of  killing  it  in  Egypt  was  with 
a spear,  the  animal  being  in  the  first  instance  secured  by 
a lasso,  and  repeatedly  struck  until  it  became  exhausted 
(Wilkinson,  i,  240);  the  very  same  method  is  pursued 
by  the  natives  of  South  Africa  at  the  present  day  (Liv- 
ingstone, p.  73 ; instances  of  its  great  strength  are  no- 
ticed by  the  same  writer,  p.  231 , 232, 497).  The  skin  of 
the  hippopotamus  is  cut  into  whips  by  the  Dutch  colo- 
nists of  South  Africa,  and  the  monuments  of  Egypt  tes- 
tify that  a similar  use  was  made  of  the  skin  by  the  an- 
cient Egyptians  (.1  »c.  Egypt.  iii,  73).  The  inhabitants 
of  South  Africa  hold  the  flesh  of  the  hippopotamus  in 
high  esteem ; it  is  said  to  be  not  unlike  pork. 


Hippopotamus  Amphibius. 


It  has  been  said  that  some  parts  of  the  description  in 
Job  cannot  apply  to  the  hippopotamus:  (1.)  The  20tli 


verse,  for  instance,  where  it  is  said  “the  mountains 
bring  him  forth  food.”  This  passage,  many  writers  say, 
suits  the  elephant  well,  but  cannot  be  applied  to  the  hip- 
popotamus, which  is  never  seen  on  mountains.  In  an- 
swer to  this  objection,  it  has  been  stated,  with  great 
reason,  that  the  word  hdrhn  (Q^it)  is  not  necessarily 
to  be  restricted  to  what  we  understand  coinmonlv  by 
the  expression  “mountains.”  In  the  Praenestine  pave- 
ment alluded  to  above,  there  are  to  be  seen  here  and 
there,  as  Mr.  Harmer  has  observed,  “hillocks  rising 
above  the  water.”  In  Ezek.  xliii,  15  (margin),  the  altar 
of  God,  only  ten  cubits  high  and  fourteen  square,  is  call- 
ed “ the  mountain  of  God.”  “ The  eminences  of  Egypt, 
which  appear  as  the  inundation  of  the  Nile  decreases, 
may  undoubtedly  be  called  mountains  in  the  poetical 
language  of  Job.”  But  we  think  there  is  no  occasion 
for  so  restricted  an  explanation.  The  hippopotamus,  as 
is  well  known,  frequently  leaves  the  water  and  the  riv- 
er’s bank  as  night  approaches,  and  makes  inland  excur- 
sions for  the  sake  of  the  pasturage,  when  he  commits 
sad  work  among  the  growing  crops  (llasselquist,  Trav. 
p.  188).  No  doubt  he  might  often  be  observed  on  the 
hill-sides  near  the  spots  frequented  by  him.  Again,  it 
must  be  remembered  that  the  “ mountains”  are  mention- 
ed by  way  of  contrast  with  the  natural  habits  of  aquatic 
animals  generally,  which  never  go  far  from  the  water 
and  the  banks  of  the  river;  but  the  behemoth,  though 
passing  much  of  his  time  in  the  water  and  in  “ the  cov- 
ert of  the  reed  and  fens,”  eateth  grass  like  cattle,  and 
feedeth  on  the  hill-sides  in  company  with  the  beasts  of 
the  field.  According  to  a recent  traveller  in  Egypt, 
the  TIev.  J.  L.  Errington,  “ the  valley  of  the  Nile  in  Up- 
per Egypt  and  Nubia  is  in  parts  so  very  narrow,  that 
the  mountains  approach  within  a few  hundred  yards, 
and  even  less,  to  the  river’s  bank;  the  hippopotamus, 
therefore,  might  well  be  said  to  get  its  food  from  the 
mountains,  on  the  sides  of  which  it  would  grow.”  There 
is  much  beauty  in  the  passages  which  contrast  the  hab- 
its of  the  hippopotamus,  an  amphibious  animal,  with 
those  of  herbivorous  land-quadrupeds;  but  if  the  ele- 
phant is  to  be  understood,  the  whole  description  is,  com- 
paratively speaking,  tame. 

(2.)  Again,  the  24th  verse — “his  nose  pierceth  through 
snares” — seems  to  be  spoken  of  the  trunk  of  the  elephant, 
“with  its  extraordinary  delicacy  of  scent  and  touch,  rath- 
er than  to  the  obtuse  perceptions  of  the  river-horse.” 
With  respect  to  this  objection,  there  is  little  doubt  that 
the  marginal  reading  is  nearer  the  Hebrew  than  that 
of  the  text.  “ Will  any  take  him  in  his  sight,  or  bore 
his  nose  with  a gin?”  Perhaps  this  refers  to  leading 
him  about  alive  with  a ring  in  his  nose,  as,  says  Ilosen- 
miiller,  “the  Arabs  are  accustomed  to  lead  camels,” and 
we  may  add  the  English  to  lead  bulls,  “with  a ring 
passed  through  the  nostrils.” 

(3.)  The  expression  in  verse  17,  “he  bendeth  his  tail 
like  a cedar,”  has  given  occasion  to  much  discussion; 
some  of  the  advocates  for  the  elephant  maintaining  that 
the  word  zundb  (22T)  may  denote  either  extremity,  and 
that  here  the  elephant's  trunk  is  intended.  The  paral- 
lelism, however,  clearly  requires  the  posterior  appendage 
to  be  signified  by  the  term.  The  expression  seems  to 
allude  to  the  stiff,  unbending  nature  of  the  animal’s  tail, 
which  in  this  respect  is  compared  to  the  trunk  of  a 
strong  cedar  which  the  wind  scarcely  moves. 

(4.)  The  description  of  the  animal’s  lying  under  “ the 
shady  trees,”  amongst  the  “ reeds”  and  willows,  is  pecul- 
iarly applicable  to  the  hippopotamus.  It  has  been  ar- 
gued that  such  a description  is  equally  applicable  to  the 
elephant ; but  this  is  hardly  the  case;  for,  though  the  el- 
ephant is  fond  of  frequent  ablutions,  and  is  frequently 
seen  near  water,  yet  the  constant  habit  of  the  hippopot- 
amus, as  implied  in  verses  21,  22,  seems  to  be  especially 
made  the  subject  to  which  the  attention  is  directed. 
“At  every  turn  there  occurred  deep,  still  pools,  and  oc- 
casional sandy  islands  densely  clad  with  lofty  reeds. 
Above  and  beyond  these  reeds  stood  trees  of  immense 


HIPPOS 


272 


HIRAM 


age,  Deneath  which  grew  a rank  kind  of  grass  on  which 
the  sea-cow  delights  to  pasture”  (G.  Gumming,  p.  297). 
— Smith,  s.  v.  See  Behemoth. 

Hippos  ( '1 7T7TOC,  a horse ; but  Belaud  suggests,  Pal- 
p.830,  that  it  may  be  one  of  the  towns  called 
in  the  Talmud),  a city  of  Palestine,  30  stadia  from  Ti- 
berias (Josephus,  Life,  65),  one  of  the  Decapolis  (Be- 
hind, Palcest.  p.  215),  frequently  mentioned  by  Josephus 
(.1  nt.  xv,  7, 3 ; xvii,  11,4;  War.  ii,  18, 1 ; 18,5;  iii,  3, 1 ; 
Life,  31);  later,  an  episcopal  city  (Belaud,  p.  440,  821), 
identified  by  Bnrckliardt  with  the  ruin  es-Sunuah,  at 
the  south-east  end  of  Lake  Tiberias. — Van  de  Velde, 
Memoir,  p.  322. 

Hi'rah  (fleb.  Chirah nobility ; Sept.  Eipctc), 
an  Adullainite  and  friend  of  Judah  (Gen.  xxxviii,  1,12; 
comp.  vcr.  20).  B.C.  cir.  1893-1876. 

Hi'ram  (Ileb.  Chimin',  GP’1n,  high-horn ; generally 
written  “ Iluram,”  E“*n,  Chitram',  in  Chron.,  and  “Hi- 
rom,”  , Chirom,'  in  1 Kings  v,  10,  18;  vii,  40; 

Sept.  Xsipctp  or  Xiaap  ; Joseph.  Eioapog  and  Etpw/tog), 
the  name  of  three  men. 

1.  lint  am  (Sept,  makes  two  names,  ’Ayipfiv  rat 
Twi'/i),  the  last  named  of  the  sons  of  Bela,  son  of  Benja- 
min (1  Chron.  viii,  5).  B.C.  post  1856. 

2.  Hiram,  IIuram,  or  IIirom,  king  of  Tyre  at  the 
commencement  of  David’s  reign.  II  e sent  an  embassy 
to  felicitate  David  on  his  accession,  which  led  to  an  alli- 
ance, or  strengthened  a previous  friendship  between 
them.  It  seems  that  the  dominion  of  this  prince  ex- 
tended over  the  western  slopes  of  Lebanon ; and  when 
David  built  himself  a palace,  Hiram  materially  assisted 
the  work  by  sending  cedar-wood  from  Lebanon,  and 
able  workmen  to  Jerusalem  (2  Sam.  v,  1 1 ; 1 Chron.  xiv, 
1).  B.C.  cir.  1044.  It  was  probably  the  same  prince 
who  sent  to  .Jerusalem  an  embassy  of  condolence  and 
congratulation  when  David  died  and  Solomon  succeeded, 
and  who  contracted  with  the  new  king  a more  intimate 
alliance  than  ever  before  or  after  existed  between  a He- 
brew king  and  a foreign  prince.  The  alliance  seems  to 
have  been  very  substantially  beneficial  to  both  parties, 
and  without  it  Solomon  would  scarcely  have  been  able 
to  realize  all  the  great  designs  he  had  in  view.  In  con- 
sideration of  large  quantities  of  corn,  wine,  and  oil  fur- 
nished by  Solomon,  the  king  of  Tyre  agreed  to  snpplv 
from  Lebanon  the  timber  required  for  the  Temple,  to 
float  it  along  the  coast,  and  deliver  it  at  Joppa,  which 
was  the  port  of  Jerusalem  (1  Kings  v,  1 sq. ; ix,  10  sq. ; 
1 Chron.  ii,  3 sq.).  The  vast  commerce  of  Tyre  made 
gold  very  plentiful  there ; and  Hiram  supplied  no  less 
than  500  talents  to  Solomon  for  the  ornamental  works 
of  the  Temple,  and  received  in  return  twenty  towns  in 
Galilee,  which,  when  he  came  to  inspect  them,  pleased 
him  so  little  that  he  applied  to  them  a name  of  con- 
tempt, and  restored  them  to  the  Jewish  king  (2  Chron. 
viii,  2).  See  Gabel.  It  does  not,  however,  appear  that 
the  good  understanding  between  the  two  kings  was  bro- 
ken by  this  unpleasant  circumstance,  for  it  was  after 
this  that  Hiram  suggested,  or  at  least  took  part  in,  Sol- 
omon’s traffic  to  the  Eastern  Seas,  which  certainly  could 
not  have  been  undertaken  by  the  Hebrew  king  without 
his  assistance  in  providing  ships  and  experienced  mari- 
ners (1  Kings  ix,  27;  x,  11,  etc.;  2 Chron.  viii,  18;  ix, 
10,  etc.).  B.C.  cir.  1010.  See  Ophir;  Solomon. 

Josephus  has  preserved  a valuable  fragment  of  the 
history  of  Mereandcr,  a native  of  Ephesus,  relating  to 
the  intercourse  of  Hiram  and  Solomon,  professedly  taken 
from  the  Syrian  archives  (Apion,  i,  18).  “After  the 
death  of  Abibalus,  lliromus,  his  son,  succeeded  him  in 
his  kingdom,  and  reigned  thirty-four  years,  having  lived 
fifty-three.  He  laid  out  that  part  of  the  city  which  is 
called  Eurvehoron,  and  consecrated  the  golden  column 
which  is  in  the  temple  of  Jupiter.  And  he  went  up 
into  the  forest  on  the  mountain  called  Libanus,  to  fell 
cedars  for  the  roofs  of  the  temples;  and  having  demol- 
ished the  ancient  temples  he  rebuilt  them,  and  eonse- 


! crated  the  fanes  of  Hercules  and  Astarte : he  constructed 
j that  of  Hercules  first,  in  the  month  Peritius;  then  that 
of  Astarte,  when  he  had  overcome  the  Titvians  who  had 
refused  to  pay  their  tribute ; and  when  he  had  subjected 
them  he  returned.  In  his  time  was  a certain  young 
man  named  Abdemonus,  who  used  to  solve  the  problems 
which  were  propounded  to  him  by  Solomon,  king  of  Je- 
rusalem.” According  to  the  same  authority  ( ib . i,  17), 
the  historian  Dius,  likewise  from  the  Tyrian  annals,  says, 
“Upon  the  death  of  Abibalus,  his  son  lliromus  succeed- 
ed to  the  kingdom.  He  raised  the  eastern  parts  of  the 
city,  and  enlarged  the  citadel,  and  joined  it  to  the  tem- 
ple of  Jupiter  Olvmpius,  which  stood  before  upon  an 
island,  by  filling  up  the  intermediate  space;  and  he 
adorned  that  temple  with  donations  of  gold,  and  he  went 
up  into  Libanus  to  cut  timber  for  the  construction  of  the 
temples.  And  it  is  said  that  Solomon,  who  at  that  time 
reigned  in  Jerusalem,  sent  enigmas  to  Hiromus,  and  de- 
sired others  in  return,  with  a proposal  that  whichsoever 
of  the  two  was  unable  to  solve  them,  should  forfeit  mon- 
ey to  the  other.  Hiromus  agreed  to  the  proposal,  but 
was  unable  to  solve  the  enigmas,  and  paid  treasures  to 
a large  amount  as  a forfeit,  to  Solomon.  And  it  is  said 
that  one  Abdemonus,  a Tyrian,  solved  the  enigmas,  and 
proposed  others  which  Solomon  was  not  able  to  unrid- 
| die,  for  which  he  repaid  the  fine  to  Hiromus”  (Cory’s 
A ncient  Fragments,  p.  193.)  Some  of  these  riddles,  the 
Jewish  historian  states  (ib.  i,  17),  were  extant  in  his  day; 
and  in  A nt.  viii,  2, 6,  7,  he  gives  what  he  declares  to  be 
, authentic  copies  of  the  epistles  that  passed  between 
the  two  kings  respecting  the  materials  for  the  Temple. 
See  Lebanon.  With  the  letters  in  1 Kings  v,  and  2 
Chron.  ii,  may  be  compared  not  only  his  copies  of  the 
letters,  but  also  the  still  less  authentic  letters  between 
Solomon  and  Hiram,  and  between  Solomon  and  Vaplnes 
(Apries  ?),  which  are  preserved  by  Eupolemon  (ap.  Eu- 
sebius, Prcep.  Erang.  ix,  30),  and  mentioned  by  Alexan- 
der Polyliistor  (Clem.  Alex.  Strom,  i,  24,  p.  332).  Some 
Phoenician  historians  (ap.  Tatian.  cont.  Greec.  § 37)  re- 
late that  Hiram,  besides  supplying  timber  for  the  Tem- 
ple, gave  his  daughter  in  marriage  to  Solomon.  Jew- 
ish writers  in  less  ancient  times  cannot  overlook  Hiram’s 
uncircumcision  in  his  services  towards  the  building  of 
the  Temple.  Their  legends  relate  (Eisenm.  Eat.  Jud.  i, 
868)  that  because  he  was  a God-fearing  man,  and  built 
the  Temple,  he  was  received  alive  into  Paradise ; but 
that,  after  he  had  been  there  a thousand  years,  he  sin- 
ned by  pride,  and  was  thrust  down  into  hell.  Eupole- 
mon (Euseb.  Prcep.  Evang.  ix,  30)  states  that  David,  af- 
ter a war  with  Hiram,  reduced  him  to  the  condition  of 
a tributary-prince.  See  David. 

Some  have  regarded  this  Hiram  as  a different  person 
from  the  friend  of  David,  since  Josephus  states  that  the 
Temple  was  built  in  the  twelfth  year  of  the  reign  of  the 
Tyrian  king  who  aided  Solomon  in  the  work  (Apion,  i, 
17  sq. ; the  eleventh,  according  to  A nt.  viii,  3,  1);  but 
this  is  probably  only  by  a computation  of  the  historian, 
j whose  numerical  calculations  in  these  points  are  far 
| from  trustworthy.  (See  Nessel,  Piss,  de  amicitia  Salom. 
et  llirami,  Upsal,  1734.)  Hiram  is  also  spoken  of  by 
Herodotus  (ii,  44)  as  the  builder  of  new  temples  to  Hera- 
| cles,  Melcart,  and  Astarte,  and  the  adorner  of  that  of 
I Zeus-Baalsamin. 

Ewald  (Gcseh.  Israel,  HI,  i,  28,83)  and  Movers  (II,  i, 
326  sq.,446  sq.)  give  a Hiram  II,  who  reigned  from  551- 
532  B.C.,  toward  the  close  of  the  Chald.- Babylonian  em- 
pire, and  who  is  not  mentioned  in  the  Bible. 

Dr.  Bobinson  describes  a remarkable  monument  of 
Solomon’s  ally,  still  extant,  which  he  passed  a little  be- 
yond the  village  of  Hunaneh,  on  his  way  from  Safcd  to 
Tyre  (Bib.  Pcs.  iii, 385).  “It  is  an  immense  sarcopha- 
gus of  limestone,  resting  upon  a pedestal  of  large  hewn 
stones;  a conspicuous  ancient  tomb,  bearing  among  the 
common  people  the  name  of  Kaibr  JIairan,  ‘Sepulchre 
of  Hiram.’  The  sarcophagus  measures  twelve  feet  long 
by  six  feet  in  height  and  breadth ; the  lid  is  three  feet 
thick,  and  remains  in  its  original  position;  but  a hole 


HIRAM 


273 


IIIRMOLOGION 


has  been  broken  through  the  sarcophagus  at  one  end. 
The  pedestal  consists  of  three  layers  of  the  like  species 
of  stone,  each  of  three  feet,  thick,  the  upper  layer  pro- 
jecting over  the  others;  the  stones  are  large,  and  one 
of  them  measures  nine  feet  in  length.  This  gray, 
weather-beaten  monument  stands  here  alone  and  soli- 
tary, bearing  the  marks  of  high  antiquity;  but  the 
name  and  the  record  of  him  by  whom  or  Ibr  whom  it 


was  erected  have  perished,  like  his  ashes,  forever.  It 
is  indeed  possible  that  the  present  name  may  have  come 
down  by  tradition,  and  that  this  sepulchre  once  held  the 
dust  of  the  friend  and  ally  of  Solomon ; more  probably, 
however,  it  is  merely  of  Mohammedan  application,  like 
so  many  other  names  of  Hebrew  renown,  attached  to 
their  welvs  and  monuments  in  every  part  of  Palestine. 

1 know  of  no  historical  trace  having  reference  to  this 
tomb;  and  it  had  first  been  mentioned  by  a Frank  trav- 
eller (Monro,  1833)  only  five  years  before.”  (See  also 
Thomson,  Land  and  Bool-,  i,  290  sq.) 

3.  The  son  of  a widow  of  the  tribe  of  Dan,  and  of  a 
Tyrian  father.  He  was  sent  by  the  king  of  the  same 
name  to  execute  the  principal  works  of  the  interior  of 
the  Temple,  and  the  various  utensils  required  for  the 
sacred  services  (1  Kings  vii,  13,  14,  40).  We  recognise 
in  the  enumeration  of  this  man’s  talents  by  the  king  of 
Tyre  a character  common  in  the  industrial  history  of 
the  ancients  (comp,  those  of  Bezaleel,  Exod.  xxxi,  3-5), 
namely,  a skilful  artificer,  knowing  all  the  arts,  or  at 
least  many  of  those  arts  which  we  practise,  in  their  dif- 
ferent branches.  See  Handicraft.  It  is  probable 
that  lie  was  selected  for  this  purpose  by  the  king  from 
among  others  equally  gifted,  in  the  notion  that  his  lialf- 
Hebrew  blood  would  vender  him  the  more  acceptable  at 
Jerusalem.  B.C.  cir.  1010.  He  is  called  “Hurani”  in 

2 Ohron.  ii,  13;  iv,  11,  16,  and  “Hirom”  in  the  margin 
of  1 Kings  vii,  40.  In  2 Chron.  ii,  13,  ■'SX  D^n  is 
rendered  “ lluram  my  father’s;”  so  in  2 Chron.  iv,  16, 
V'SX  C^n  is  rendered  “lluram  his  father;”  where, 
however,  the  words  “1-Xand  ‘PSX  can  hardly  belong  to 

’ Tiv.-s ' 


the  name, but  are  appellations;  so  that  “ lluram  my  (or 
his)  father ” seems  to  mean  lluram  my  counsellor,  i.  e. 
foreman,  or  master-workman . 

Hirca Tius  (Yokum'ic,  i.  e.  Ilyrcanus),  “a  son  of 
Tobias,”  who  had  a large  treasure  placed  for  security  in 
the  treasury  of  the  Temple  at  the  time  of  the  visit  of 
Ileliodorus  (2  Maec.  iii,  11),  I5.C.  cir.  187.  Josephus 
also  mentions  “children  of  Tobias”  ( irate ti:  Tiofiiov, 
Ant.  xii,  5,  1),  who,  however, 
belonged  to  the  faction  of  Men- 
elaus,  and  notices  especially  a 
son  of  one  of  them  (Joseph)  who 
was  named  Ilyrcanus  (Ant.  xii, 
4,  2 sq.).  But  there  is  no  suf- 
ficient reason  for  identifying  the 
Ilyrcanus  of  2 Mace,  with  this 
grandson  of  Tobias  cither  by 
supposing  that  the  ellipsis  (rov 
Tojj3lov)  is  to  be  so  filled  up 
(Grot  i us,  Cahnct),  or  that  the 
sons  of  Joseph  were  popularly 
named  after  their  grandfather 
(Ewald,  Gesch.  iv,  309),  which 
could  scarcely  have  been  the 
case  in  consequence  of  the  great 
eminence  of  their  father.— 
Smith.  See  Maccabees. 

The  name  of  Ilyrcanus  oc- 
curs at  a later  period  under  the 
Maccabees.  It  has  been  thought 
that  it  was  adopted  on  account 
of  a victory  gained  by  John,  the 
son  and  successor  of  Simon  Mac- 
cabams,  over  the  llyrcanians 
(Euseb.  Chron.  lib.  ii ; Snip.  Se- 
verus,  Hist.  San-,  lib.  ii,  c.  xxvi). 
Josephus  informs  us  that  Ilyr- 
canus accompanied  Antioch  us 
VII  Sidetes  into  Partliia,  and 
Nicolaus  of  Damascus  says  that 
a trophy  was  erected  at  the  riv- 
er Lycus  to  commemorate  the 
victory  over  the  Parthian  gen- 
eral (A  nt.  xiii,  8, 4).  The  Hyr- 
canians  were  a nation  whose 
territory  was  bounded  on  the  north  by  the  Caspian 
Sea,  and  would  thus  be  at  no  great  distance  from  Par- 
thia,  where  John  Ilyrcanus  had  gained  the  victory. 
It  is  remarkable  that  the  different  statements  agree  in 
the  position  of  the  countries,  Hvrcania,  Partbia,  and 
the  river  Lycus  (of  Assyria)  being  contiguous.  As  Jo- 
sephus, however,  does  not  give  any  explanation  of  the 
name  (.4  nt.  xiii,  7,  4;  117/?',  i,  2,  3),  and  the  son  of  Si- 
mon is  nowhere  called  Ilyrcanus  in  1 Maec.,  the  reason 
for  its  assumption  is  uncertain. — Kit  to.  See  IIvrcanfs. 

Hireling  (taitaci^,  sakir f;  ftarSwroc),  a laborer  who 
is  employed  on  hire  for  a limited  time  (Job  xii,  1 ; xiv, 
6;  Mark  i,  20).  By  the  Mosaic  law  such  a one  was  to 
be  paid  his  wages  as  soon  as  his  work  was  over  (Lev. 
xix,  13).  The  little  interest  which  would  be  felt  by 
such  a temporary  laborer,  compared  with  that  of  the 
shepherd  or  permanent  keeper  of  the  flock,  furnish  a 
striking  illustration  in  one  of  our  Lord’s  discourses  (John 
x,  12,  13).  The  working-day  in  the  East  begins  with 
the  rising  of  the  sun,  and  ends  when  it  sets.  The  para- 
ble in  Matt,  xx,  1-14,  is  interesting,  not  only  as  show- 
ing what  were  the  day's  wages  of  a laborer  at  this  pe- 
riod in  Judsea,  “a  penny,”  i.  e.  the  Roman  denarius, 
about  fifteen  cents  of  our  money,  but  also  as  showing 
that  the  salvation  of  the  Gentiles  can  in  itself  become 
no  impediment  to  the  Jews;  and  as  eternal  life  is  the 
free  gift  of  God,  he  has  a right  to  give  it  in  whatever 
proportions,  at  whatever  times,  and  on  whatever  condi- 
tions he  pleases.  See  Servant;  Wages,  etc. 

Hirmologion  (t’tago\<>yior),  a collection  of  hirmoi; 
also  the  exaltation  of  the  Panagliia  (q.  v.)  in  the  Greek 


HIRSCHER 


HIRMOS  274 


Church  (Neale,  Hist,  of  the  Eastern  Church , p.  890).  See 
Hirmos. 

Hirmos,  or  rather  Irmos  ( elppog , a series)  is  the 
name  of  a strophe  in  a Greek  hymn.  “ The  model  of 
succeeding  stanzas,  so  called  as  drawing  others  after  it.” 
— Walcott,  Sac.  Archeology  (8vo,  London,  1868). 

Hirnheim  or  Hirnhaym,  Hieronymus,  a distin- 
guished Roman  Catholic  theologian,  was  born  at  Trop- 
pau,  province  of  Silesia,  in  1635.  He  took  orders  in 
1659,  and  pursued  his  theological  studies  at  Prague  un- 
til appointed  instructor  in  philosophy  at  the  Norbertin 
College.  A short  time  after  he  was  made  abbe  of 
Mount  Sion,  and  later  general  vicar  of  Bohemia,  Mora- 
via, Silesia,  and  Austria.  Hirnheim  is  generally  ranked 
among  modern  skeptics,  and  most  of  his  works  have 
been  placed  in  the  Roman  Index.  He  was  a great  hater 
of  the  Protestant  Church,  and  employed,  in  common 
with  a number  of  other  theologians  of  liis  Church,  to 
combat  Protestantism,  skeptical  weapons,  as  he  saw  no 
prospect  of  vanquishing  them  in  the  dogmatic  field. 
He  died  August  27, 1769.  His  most  important  work  is 
De  typho  generis  humani,  sire  scientiarum  hamanarum 
inani  ac  ventoso  tumore,  difficult  ate,  labilitate,  falsitate, 
jactantia , prtesumjrtione,  incommodis  et  penculis,  tracta- 
tus  brevis,  etc.  (Prague,  167 6, 4to),  put  into  the  Index  April 
14, 1682. — Jochers,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  Addenda  ii,  2018;  Krug, 
Philosophisches  Ilandworferb.  ii, 438 ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Bing. 
Gener.  xxiv,  791 . (J.  II.  W.) 

Hirom.  See  Hiram. 

Hirsch,  Andreas,  a Lutheran  minister  of  the  latter 
half  of  the  last  century.  He  studied  theology  at  Stras- 
burg,  and  filled  several  positions  as  preacher,  hut  gave 
dissatisfaction  to  the  people,  and  was  driven  from  each 
of  them  in  succession.  Notwithstanding  all  persecu- 
tion, he  found  sufficient  time  to  write  several  works, 
among  which  are,  Kircherus  Jesnita  Germaniee  redona- 
tus,  etc.  (Halle,  1662,  8vo) : — Religionsgesprach  zwischen 
zweierlei  Religionsverwandten  (Rottenburg,  1672, 4to): — 
Predigten  untl  Gelegenheitssckriften  (ibid,  1673,  8vo). — 
Jbcher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  Addenda  ii,  2018. 

Hirsch,  Carl  Christian,  a German  theologian, 
was  born  at  llersbruck  October  20, 1704.  He  studied  at 
Altorf,  Leipzig,  and  other  universities,  and  went  to  the 
theological  seminary  at  Nuremburg  in  1729.  He  en- 
tered the  ministry  in  1734,  and  in  1740  was  appointed 
deacon  of  Lorenz  Church  at  Nuremburg.  He  died  Feb. 
27, 1754.  His  works  are : IJadriani  Pontii  Historic  Li- 
bid  rariores : — Venerab.  A gnetis  Blannbeckin  Vita  et  Pev- 
elationes  (Frankf.  and  Lcip.  1735) : — Catechismus  Ilisto- 
rice  (N  drub.  1 7 52, 8vo) : — Lebensbeschreib.  alter  G cist  lichen 
Number gs  (continued  by  Wiiffel  and  Waldau,  published 
in  1756-1785,  4to):  to  this  work  he  devoted  his  time 
mainly.  He  also  wrote  a number  of  monographs  insert- 
ed in  the  Acta  Histor.  eccles.  and  in  the  Acta  Scholust. 
of  Nuremburg. — Jochcr,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  Append,  ii,  2021 ; 
Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gener.  xxiv,  793  ; During,  Gelehrt. 
Theol.  Deutschl.  i,  738. 

Hirsch-Chotsch,  Zebi,  bex-Jerachjiiel,  a Polish 
Rabbi,  and  one  of  the  most  eloquent  preachers  of  the 
17th  century,  was  born  at  Cracow,  but  spent  his  later 
days  in  Germany.  He  gained  renown  as  an  author  by 
‘’52  or  Hereditas  decoris  ex  Jer.  iii,  19  (Frankf. 

1721,  fol.);  an  allegorical  commentary  on  the  Penta- 
teuch, written  in  German,  with  Hebrew  characters,  and 
in  the  main  drawn  from  “Zohar.”  one  of  the  works  of 
the  Cabalists Sltf  2'j,  Sabbathumfesti  (Fiirth, 
1603, 4to): — ^-2  H'H'CTl,  or  Desiderium  decoris,  a com- 
mentary on  “ Tikune  Zohar"  (Amsterd.  1706,  fol.),  etc.— 
Fiirst,  Bib.  Judaica,  i,  177 ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gener. 
xxiv.  792 ; Jbcher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1626.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hirschau  or  Hirsau,  a very  celebrated  old  Ger- 
man monastery,  of  the  Benedictine  order,  in  the  dio- 
cese of  Speier,  having  much  in  common  with  the  con- 
gregation of  Clugny  (q.  v.).  1 1 is  asserted  by  the  Roman 


Catholics  to  have  been  opened  A.D.  645 ; but  it  was  prob- 
ably founded  about  830  by  count  Erlafried  von  Calw  and 
bishop  Notting  of  Vercelli.  The  monks  and  the  differ- 
ent abbots  who  inhabited  it  were  distinguished  for  their 
scholarship.  Some  were  authors,  others  rose  to  high  dis- 
tinction in  the  Church.  Among  these,  the  abbot  Wilhelm 
der  SeKge  (q.  v.)  did  perhaps  more  than  any  other  to  es- 
tablish the  noble  reputation  of  this  monastery.  After  the 
Reformation  it  became  a Protestant  seminary  until  1692, 
when  the  French,  on  their  invasion  of  the  country,  de- 
stroyed it.  A history  of  this  monastery  was  written  by 
Johann  Trittenhemius,  one  of  its  abbots,  under  the  title 
Chronicon  Ilirsaugiense  (Basil,  1559,  fol.,  and  1690, 2 vols. 
fol.). — Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  143 ; Wetzer  u.  Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex.  v,  213;  Peal -Encyklopddie  fur  d.  Kathol. 
Deutschl.  v,  375.  See  Benedictines.  (J.  H.  W.). 

Hirscher,  Johann  Baptist  von,  a celebrated  Ger- 
man Roman  Catholic  theologian,  was  born  at  Alt-Ergar- 
ten,  Wiirtemberg,  Jan.  20,  1788.  He  was  educated  at 
the  Lyceum  of  Constance  and  at  the  University  of  Frei- 
burg, and  was  made  a priest  in  1810.  He  held  the  po- 
sition of  instructor  in  philosophy  and  theology  in  differ- 
ent institutions  until  1817,  when  he  was  called  as  pro- 
fessor of  ethical  and  pastoral  theology  to  the  University 
of  Tubingen.  In  1837  he  was  called  to  the  University 
of  Freiburg,  and  in  1839  he  became  a member  of  the 
cathedral  chapter  of  the  archdiocese  of  Freiburg.  He 
was  also  appointed  an  “ ecclesiastical  counsellor,”  and, 
somewhat  later,  a privy  counsellor  ( Gekeim-Ratk ).  In 
1849  he  was  delegate  of  the  University  of  Freiburg  in 
the  First  Chamber  of  the  grand-duchy  of  Baden,  into 
which  he  was  subsequently  several  times  called  by  the 
confidence  of  the  grand-duke.  In  1850  he  became  dean 
of  the  cathedral  chapter.  In  1863  he  resigned  his  posi- 
tion at  the  university  on  account  of  ill  health.  He 
died  Sept.  4, 1865.  Hirscher  was  one  of  the  representa- 
tive men  of  Roman  Catholic  theology  in  the  19th  cen- 
tury. At  the  beginning  of  his  literary  career  he  was  a 
zealous  advocate  of  liberal  reforms  within  his  Church ; 
subsequently  he  gradually  became,  with  M ohler  (q.  v.), 
Drey  (q.  v.),  and  other  professors  of  Tubingen,  a more 
outspoken  champion  of  the  tenets  of  his  Church  in  op- 
position to  Protestantism,  and  joined  his  colleagues  as 
founder  and  co-editor  of  the  Theologische  Quartahchrift 
(established  1819),  one  of  the  ablest  theological  organs 
of  the  Church  of  Rome.  But,  though  a prolific  and 
j prominent  writer  in  behalf  of  his  Church,  he  continued, 
even  in  later  life,  to  favor  the  introduction  of  some  re- 
forms, as  the  admission  of  the  laity  to  diocesan  synods, 
and  laid,  in  general,  greater  stress  on  those  points  -which 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church  has  in  common  with  ortho- 
dox Protestantism  than  on  those  which  separate  the  two 
churches.  He  remained  an  opponent  of  Ultramontane 
theories,  and  Avas  therefore,  up  to  his  death,  the  object 
of  many  attacks  on  the  part  of  Ultramontane  Avriters, 
SeA'cral  of  his  earlier  Avorks,  in  particular  the  one  enti- 
tled De  Missa  (Tubingen,  1821 ; German  transl.  Baden, 
1838),  in  Avliich  he  advocated  the  use  of  the  Latin  lan- 
guage at  divine  service,  Avcre  pnt  in  the  Roman  Index . 
The  chief  aim  of  most  of  his  Avorks  is  to  represent  the 
| doctrines  of  his  Church,  especially  those  most  offensive 
to  Protestants  and  liberal  Roman  Catholics,  in  as  favor- 
able a light  as  possible.  The  most  important  among 
■ his  works  are  A nsickten  von  dem  Jubilaum  (Tub.  1826), 
the  second  edition  of  Avhich  appeared  under  the  title  Die 
' Lehre  vom  kathol.  Abhtss  (6tli  edit. Tub.  1855) : — Gesch. 
Jesu  Christi  (Tub.  1840 ; 2d  edit.  1845) : — Katechetik  (4th 
edit.  Ttib.  1840) : — Betrachtungen  iiber  sammrliche  Evan - 
gelien  der  Fasten  (Tub.  1848) : — Die  kirchL  Zustdnde  d. 
Gegemcart  (Tiib.  1848) Die  christi.  Moral  (Tiib.  1835, 
3 A'ols. ; 5th  ed.  1850-1851) : — Beitrage  zur  Homiletik  u. 
Katechetik  (Tiib.  1852) : — Betrachtung  iiber  die  sonntag- 
liclien  Evangelien  des  Kirchenjahres  (5th  edit.  Tub.  1853, 
2 A’ols.)  : — ErOrterungen  iiber  die  grossen  religiosen  Fra- 
gen  der  Gegemcart  (3  numbers ; 3d  ed.  Freib.  1846-1857) : 
— Ilauptstiicke  des  christkath.  Glaubens  (Tiib.  1857) : — 
Katechismus  (Freib.  1842,  and  many  edit,  since) : — Be* 


HIRT 


275 


HISTORY 


trachtungen  fiber  sammtliche  sonntagl.  Epistebi  (Freiburg, 
1860-18G2, 2 vols.) : — Das  Leben  Maria;  (otli  edit.  Freib. 
18G5).  lie  took  a special  interest  in  the  education  of 
poor  and  abandoned  children,  himself  establishing  three 
houses  of  refuge.  He  wrote  on  this  subject  the  work 
Die  Sorge  fur  die  sittlieh  verwahrlosten  Kinder  (Freib. 
185(5).  A volume  of  minor  posthumous  works  (Naeh- 
fjelassene  kleinere  Schriften , Freib.  18G8)  has  been  pub- 
lished by  Kollfuss.  This  work  contains  also  a biogra- 
ph}' of  Hirscher. — Ilagenbach,  Hist,  of  Doctrines,  transl. 
by  Smith,  ii,  457 ; Hase,  Church  History,  transl.  by  IIlu- 
menthal  and  Wing,  p.  G54 ; A llgem.  Real-Encyklop.  vii, 
628.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Hirt,  Johann  Friedrich,  a distinguished  German 
theologian,  was  born  at  Apolda,  in  Thuringia,  August  14, 
1719.  He  studied  at  the  University  of  Jena,  and  in  1758 
was  made  extraordinary  professor  of  philosophy.  In 
17G9  he  changed  to  the  chair  of  theology,  and  in  1775 
was  appointed  regular  professor  of  theology  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Wittenberg.  He  died  July  29, 1784.  Hirt  was 
regarded  as  one  of  the  first  theologians  at  the  Witten- 
berg University,  and  inferior  to  no  other  person  as  a 
scholar  of  the  Oriental  languages.  He  is  especially 
known  in  this  department  by  the  development  which 
he  gave  to  the  systems  of  Alting  and  Danz  on  the  He- 
brew language  ( Systema  trium  morantm ) ; but  the  ad- 
vance of  late  years  in  the  field  of  exegetical  theology 
decreases  the  value  of  all  his  efforts  in  this  direction. 
His  most  important  works  arc,  besides  a host  of  disser- 
tations in  the  field  of  exegesis,  Biblia  Hebrcea  analytica 
(Jena,  1753,  4to) : — Philologisch-exegetische  Abhandlimg 
fib.  Psalm  xv,  14,  45  (ibid.  1753, 4to) : — Divinitas  Christi, 
ex  ejus  resurrectione  demonstrata  (ibid.  1757, 4to): — Bib- 
Korum  analyticorum  pars  Chaldaica  (ibid.  1757,  8vo) : 
— Vollstand.  Erklarung  d.  Spriiche  Salomos  (ibid.  17G8, 
4 to)  :—Instit.  A rabicce  linguce  (ibid.  1770, 8 vo) : — Orien- 
talische  und  exeget.  Bibliath.  (ibid.  1772-1770, 8 vols.  8vo ; 
continued,  under  the  title  Wittenb,  Oriental,  und  exeget. 
Biblioth.,Jena , 1776-1779,4  vols.8vo). — Joclier,  Geleh  rten 
Lex.  Addend,  ii,  2022 ; During,  Gelehrt.  Theol.  Deutschl. 
i,  740  sq. ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biograpth.  Generate,  xxiv,  795. 
(J.  H.  W.) 

Hirz,  Napiithalt,  bex-Jacob-Elchanax,  one  of 
the  most  celebrated  Jewish  Cabalists,  was  bom  at  Frank- 
fort-on-th e-Main  in  the  latter  half  of  the  IGth  century. 
The  only  work  of  Hirz  which  was  printed, 
or  Valley  of  the  King  (Amst,  1848,  fol.),  is  a complete 
expose  of  the  Cabala.  The  vast  research  which  he 
made  for  the  preparation  of  this  work  makes  it  indis- 
pensable for  inquirers  into  the  Cabalistic  system.  He 
died,  Fiirst  says,  in  Palestine,  but  the  date  is  not  cer- 
tainly known. — Fiirst,  Bibliath.  Judaica,  i,  401 ; Hoefer, 
Nouv.  Blog.  Generate , xxiv,  800.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hirzel,  Bernhard,  a Swiss  theologian  and  Orien- 
talist, was  born  at  Ziirich  in  1807.  He  was  for  many 
years  pastor  of  a small  parish  at  Pfaffikon.  Most  of 
his  life  he  devoted  to  the  study  of  the  Oriental  and  San- 
scrit languages.  In  the  ecclesiastical  revolt  of  Sept.  6, 
1839,  he  led  the  peasants  to  the  city  of  Zurich,  on  which 
incident  he  wrote  a book  entitled  Mein  Antheil  a.  d.Be- 
wegung  d.  (ken  Sept.  (Ziir.  1839).  lie  died  in  Paris  June, 
1847.  Among  his  works,  his  translation  of  the  dramas 
of  Kalisada,  Sakuntala  (Zurich,  1838),  and  of  Solomon’s 
Song:  Das  Lied  cl.  Lieder  (ibid.  1840).  and  the  1 1 ebrew 
poem  Gesielit  d.  Todesboten  ii.  d.  Erdkreis  (ibid.  1844), 
are  best  known.— Hoefer,  Nouv.  Bioy.  Gener.  xxiv,  801 ; 
Brockliaus,  Com'.  Lex.  vii,  94G. 

Eirzel,  Johann  Heinrich,  a German  theologian, 
was  born  at  Zurich  (Switzerland)  Dec.  18,  1710.  In 
1737  he  was  appointed  professor  of  oratory  and  Church 
history  at  the  university  of  his  place;  in  1745,  of  logic 
and  rhetoric;  and  in  1759  was  called  to  the  chair  of 
theology.  He  died  Nov.  20, 17G4.  Of  his  writings,  most 
remained  in  MS.  He  published  Disp.  de  verbo  Dei  unico 
reformates  Relig.  fundament o (Zlir.  17G0, 4to)  : — Disp.  de 


vi  et  amplitudine  nominis  Div.  Jehot'ah  Zebaoth  (ibid 
17G2,  4to). — Joclier,  Gelehrten  Lexikon,  Add.  ii,  2025 
(J.  H.W.) 

Hiss  (p1^,  sharak',  to  whistle ),  a term  usually  ex- 
pressing insult  and  contempt  (Job  xxvii,  23);  so  in  the 
denunciation  of  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  (1  Kings 
ix,  8 ; comp.  Jer.  xix,8 ; xlix,  17,  etc.).  To  call  any  one 
with  hissing  is  a mark  of  power  and  authority  (Isa.  v, 
26),  and  the  prophet  Zechariah  (x,  8),  speaking  of  the 
return  from  Babylon,  says  that  the  Lord  will  gather  the 
house  of  Judah,  as  it  were  with  a hiss,  and  bring  them 
back  into  their  own  country:  an  image  familiar  to  his 
readers,  as  1 heodoret  and  Cyril  of  Alexandria  remark 
that,  in  Syria  and  Palestine,  those  who  looked  after  bees 
drew  them  out  of  their  hives,  carried  them  into  the 
fields,  and  brought  them  back  again,  with  the  sound  of 
a flute  and  the  noise  of  hissing  (Isa.  vii,  18).  See  Bee. 

Histopedes  (laroc,  a mast  of  a slap,  and  7 rove,  a 
footi),  a term  applied  to  certain  heretics,  chiefly  Em.o- 
mians,  who  baptized  only  the  upper  parts  of  the  body  as 
far  as  the  breast,  and  this  with  the  heels  upward  and 
the  head  downward  (rovg  7ioCccQ  avio,  Kai  ti) v Kt(j)u\i}v 
KciTio).  Hence  the  name  Histopedes,  or  Pedereeti.  See 
Epiphan ins,  Ilceres.  c.  79;  Bingham,  Grig.  Eccles.  bk.  xl, 
chap,  xi,  § 4. 

Histories,  a name  applied  to  anthems  composed 
either  out  of  Scripture  or  from  lives  of  the  saints.— Wal- 
cott, Sacred  Archceol.  p.  312. 

History,  in  its  modern  sense,  is  hardly  a term  that 
expresses  the  conception  of  the  sacred  writers,  who  nev- 
ertheless have  given  us  invaluable  materials  for  its  con- 
struction. The  earliest  records  of  the  O.  T.  are  rather 
family  pedigrees  (mVn,  generations'),  and  the  Gospels 
and  Acts  are  properly  memoirs  and  personal  memoranda. 
See  Chronology. 

1.  It  is  evident,  however,  that  the  Hebrew  people  were  a 
commemorative  race;  in  other  words,  they  were  given  to 
creating  and  preserving  memorials  of  important  events. 
Even  in  the  patriarchal  times  we  find  monuments  set 
up  in  order  to  commemorate  events.  Jacob  (Gen.xxviii, 
18)  “set  up  a pillar”  to  perpetuate  the  memory  of  the 
divine  promise;  and  that  these  monuments  had  a relig- 
ious import  and  sanction  appears  from  the  statement 
that  “ he  poured  oil  upon  the  top  of  the  pillar”  (see  Gen. 
xxxi,  45 ; Josh,  i v,  9 ; 1 Sam.  vii,  12 ; Judg.  ix,  6).  Long- 
lived  trees,  such  as  oaks  and  terebinths,  were  made  use  of 
as  remembrancers  (Gen.  xxxv,  4;  Josh,  xxiv,  20).  Com- 
memorative names,  also,  were  given  to  persons,  places, 
and  things;  and  from  the  earliest  periods  it  was  usual  to 
substitute  a new  and  descriptive  name  for  an  old  one, 
which  may  in  its  origin  have  been  descriptive  too  (Exod. 
ii,  10;  Gen.  ii,  23;  iv,  1).  Genealogical  tables  appear, 
moreover,  to  have  had  a very  early  existence  among 
the  people  of  whom  the  Bible  speaks,  being  carefully 
preserved  first  memoriter,  afterwards  bv  writing,  among 
family  treasures,  and  thus  transmitted  from  age  to  age. 
These,  indeed,  as  might  be  expected,  appear  to  have  been 
the  first  beginnings  of  history — a fact  which  is  illustra- 
ted and  confirmed  by  the  way  in  which  what  we  should 
term  a narrative  or  historical  sketch  is  spoken  of  in  the 
Bible,  that  is,  as  “the  book  of  the  generation”  ("of 
Adam,”  Gen.  v,  1) : a mode  of  speaking  which  is  applied 
even  to  the  account  of  the  creation  (Gen.  ii, 4),  “These 
are  the  generations  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth  when 
they  were  created.”  The  genealogical  tables  in  the  Bi- 
ble (speaking  gcnerallj')  are  not  only  of  a very  early 
date,  but  are  free  from  the  mixtures  of  a tlieogonical 
and  cosmogonical  kind  which  are  found  in  the  early  lit- 
erature of  other  primitive  nations,  wearing  the  appear- 
ance of  being,  as  far  at  least  as  they  go,  true  and  com- 
plete lists  of  individual  and  family  descent  (Gen.  v,  1). 
But  perhaps  the  most  remarkable  fact  connected  with 
this  subject  is  the  employment  of  poetry  at  a very  early 
period  to  perpetuate  a knowledge  of  historical  events. 
Even  in  Gen.  iv,  23,  in  the  case  of  Lamech,  we  find  po* 


HISTORY 


276 


HISTORY 


etrv  thus  employed,  that  is,  by  the  great-grandson  of 
the  primitive  father.  Other  instances  may  be  found  in 
Exod.  xv ; Jiulg.  v;  Josh,  x,  13;  2 .Sam.  i,  IS. 

2.  The  sources  of  Biblical  history  are  chiefly  the  Bib- 
lical books  themselves.  Any  attempt  to  fix  the  precise 
value  of  these  sources  in  a critical  point  of  view  would 
require  a volume  instead  of  an  article.  AY  hatever  hy- 
pothesis, however,  may  eventually  be  held  touching  the 
exact  time  when  these  books,  or  any  of  them,  were  put 
into  their  actual  shape,  as  also  touching  the  materials 
out  of  which  they  were  formed,  one  thing  appears  very 
certain,  that  (to  take  an  instance)  Genesis,  the  earliest 
book  (probably),  contains  most  indubitable,  as  well  as 
most  interesting  historical  facts ; for  though  the  age,  the 
mode  of  life,  and  the  state  of  culture  differ  so  widely 
from  our  own,  we  cannot  do  otherwise  than  feel  that  it 
is  among  men  and  women,  parents  and  children — beings 
of  like  passions  with  ourselves — and  not  with  mere  crea- 
tions of  fancy  or  fraud,  that  we  converse  when  we  pe- 
ruse the  narratives  which  this  composition  has  so  long 
preserved.  The  conviction  is  much  strengthened  in  the 
minds  of  those  who,  by  personal  acquaintance  with  the 
early  profane  writers,  are  able  to  compare  their  produc- 
tions with  those  of  the  Hebrews,  which  were  long  ante- 
rior, and  must,  had  they  been  of  an  equally  earthly  ori- 
gin, have  been  at  least  equally  deformed  by  fable.  The 
simple  comparison  of  the  account  given  in  Genesis  of  the 
creation  of  the  world  with  the  Cosmogonies  of  heathen 
writers,  whether  Hindu,  Greek,  or  Latin,  is  enough  to  . 
assure  the  impartial  reader  that  a purer,  if  not  a higher  | 
influence,  presided  over  the  composition  of  Genesis  than  ! 
that  whence  proceeded  the  legends  or  the  philosophies 
of  heathenism;  nor  is  the  conclusion  in  the  slightest  de- 
gree weakened  on  a closer  scrutiny  by  any  discrepancy 
which  modern  science  may  seem  to  show  between  its 
own  discoveries  and  the  statements  in  Genesis.  The 
Biblical  history,  as  found  in  its  Biblical  sources,  has  a 
decided  peculiarity  and  a great  recommendation  in  the  1 
fact  that  we  can  trace  in  the  Bible  more  clearly  and 
fully  than  in  connection  with  any  other  history,  the 
first  crude  elements  and  the  early  materials  out  of  which 
all  history  must  be  constructed. 

How  far  the  literature  supplied  in  the  Bible  may  be 
only  a relic  of  a literary  cvclus  called  into  being  by  the 
felicitous  circumstances  and  favorable  constitution  of 
the  great  Shemitic  family,  but  which  has  perished  in 
the  lapse  of  ages,  it  is  now  impossible  to  determine;  but 
had  the  other  portions  of  this  imagined  literature  been 
of  equal  religious  value  with  what  the  Bible  offers,  there 
is  little  risk  in  affirming  that  mankind  would  scarcely 
have  allowed  it  to  be  lost.  The  Bible,  however,  bears 
traces  that  its  were  not  the  only  hooks  current  in  the 
time  and  country  to  which  it  relates;  for  writing,  writ- 
ers, and  books  are  mentioned  without  the  emphasis  and 
distinction  which  always  accompany  new  discoveries  or 
peculiar  local  possessions,  and  as  ordinary,  well-known, 
and  matter-of-course  things.  It  is  certain  that  we  do 
not  possess  all  the  works  which  were  known  in  the  early 
periods  of  Israelitish  history,  since  in  Numb,  xxi,  14  we 
read  of  “ the  book  of  the.  wars  of  the  Lord,”  and  in  Josh, 
x,  13,  of  “ the  book  of  Jasber.” 

AYTthout  writing,  history,  properly  so  called,  can  have 
no  existence.  Under  the  head  YYTuting  we  shall  trace 
the  early  rudiments  and  progress  of  that  important  art: 
here  we  merely  remark  that  an  acquaintance  with  it  was 
possessed  by  the  Hebrews  at  least  as  early  as  their  Exo- 
dus from  Egypt— a fact  which  shows  at  least  the  possi- 
bility that  the  age  of  the  Biblical  records  stands  some 
thousand  years  or  more  prior  to  the  earliest  Greek  his- 
torian, Herodotus. 

Other  sources  for  at  least  the  early  Biblical  history 
are  comparatively  of  small  value.  Josephus  has  gone 
over  the  same  periods  as  those  the  Bible  treats  of,  hut  ob- 
viously had  no  sources  of  consequence  relating  to  primi- 
tive times  which  are  not  open  to  us,  and  in  regard  to 
those  times  does  little  more  than  add  here  and  there  a 
patch  of  a legendary  or  traditional  lme  which  could  well 


! have  been  spared.  His  Greek  and  Roman  predilections 
and  his  apologetical  aims  detract  from  the  value  of  Ins 
work,  while  in  relation  to  the  early  history  of  his  country 
he  can  be  regarded  in  no  other  light  than  a sort  of  philo- 
sophical interpreter ; nor  is  it  till  he  comes  to  his  own 
age  that  he  has  the  value  of  an  independent  (not  even 
then  an  impartial)  eye-witness  or  well-informed  report- 
er. In  historical  criticism  and  linguistic  knowledge  he 
was  very  insufficiently  furnished.  The  use  of  both  Jo- 
sephus and  Philo  is  far  more  safe  for  the  student  of  the 
New  Testament  than  for  the  expounder  of  the  old.  See 
Josephus. 

The  Talmud  and  the  Rabbins  afford  very  little  assist- 
I ance  for  the  early  periods,  but  might  probably  be  made 
to  render  more  service  in  behalf  of  the  times  of  the  Sav- 
iour than  has  generally  been  allowed.  The  illustrations 
which  Lightfoot  and  YYretstein  have  drawn  from  these 
sources  are  of  great  value ; and  Gfrorer,  in  his  Jakrhun- 
dert  lies  Ileils  (Stuttgart,  1838),  has  made  ample  use  of 
the  materials  they  supply  in  order  to  draw  a picture 
of  the  first  century,  a use  which  the  learned  author  is  at 
no  small  pains  to  justify.  The  compilations  of  the  Jew- 
ish doctors,  however,  require  to  be  employed  with  the 
greatest  caution,  since  the  Rabbins  were  the  deposita- 
ries, the  expounders,  and  the  apologists  of  that  corrupt 
form  of  the  primitive  faith  and  of  the  Mosaic  institu- 
tions which  has  been  called  by  the  distinctive  name  of 
Judaism,  comprising  a heterogeneous  mass  of  false  and 
true  things,  the  colluvies  of  the  East  as  well  as  light 
from  the  Bible,  and  which,  to  a great  extent,  lies  under 
the  express  condemnation  of  Christ  himself.  How  easy 
it  is  to  propagate  fables  on  their  authority,  and  to  do  a 
disservice  to  the  Gospel  records,  may  be  learnt  from  the 
fact  that  older  writers,  in  their  undue  trust  of  Rabbin- 
ical authority,  went  so  far  as  to  maintain  that  no  cock 
was  allowed  to  be  kept  in  Jerusalem,  because  fowls 
scratched  unclean  things  out  of  the  earth,  though  the 
authority  of  Scripture  (which  in  this  case  they  refused 
to  admit)  is  most  express  and  decided  (Matt,  xxvi,  34; 
Mark  xiv,  30,  fiO,  72).  On  the  credibility  of  the  Rab- 
bins, see  Ravii  Hiss.  Phil.  Theol.  ile  eo  quod  Fidel  meren- 
tnr,  etc.,  in  Oelrich’s  Collect.  Opuse.  Hist.  Phil.  Theol. ; 
YY'olf,  Jiihl.  llebr.  ii,  1095 ; Fabrieius,  Bihlioq.  A ntiq . i,  3, 
4;  Brnnsmann,  Diss.  de  Judaica  (HafniaJ,  1705). 

The  classical  authors  betray  the  grossest  ignorance 
almost  in  all  cases  where  they  treat  of  the  origin  and 
history  of  the  Hebrew  people;  and  even  the  most  seri- 
ous and  generally  philosophic  writers  fall  into  vulgar  er- 
rors and  unaccountable  mistakes  as  soon  as  they  speak 
on  the  subject.  AYThat,  for  instance,  can  he  worse  than 
the  blunder  or  prejudice  of  Tacitus,  under  the  influence 
of  which  he  declared  that  the  Jews  derived  their  origin 
from  Mount  Ida.  in  Crete;  that  by  the  advice  of  an  ora- 
cle they  had  been  driven  out  of  Egypt ; and  that  they 
set  up  in  their  temple  at  Jerusalem  as  an  object  of  wor- 
ship the  figure  of  an  ass,  since  an  animal  of  that  species 
had  directed  them  in  the  wilderness  and  discovered  to 
them  a fountain  (Tacitus.  Hist,  v,  1,  2).  Dion  Cassius 
(xxxvii,  17)  relates  similar  fables.  Plutarch  ( Qneest . 
Si/mpos.  iv,  5)  makes  the  Hebrews  pay  divine  honors  to 
swine,  as  being  their  instructors  in  agriculture,  and  af- 
firms that  they  kept  the.  Sabbath  and  the  Feast  of  Tab- 
ernacles in  honor  of  Bacchus.  A collection  of  these 
gross  misrepresentations,  together  with  a profound  and 
successful  inquiry  into  their  origin,  and  a full  exposure 
of  their  falsehood,  has  been  given  by  Dr.  J.  G.  Midler,  in 
the  Theolof/ische  Stndien  nml  Kritilcen  (1843,  iv,  893). 

3.  The  children  of  the  faithful  Abraham  seem  to  have 
had  one  great  work  of  Providence  intrusted  to  them, 
namely,  the  development,  transmission,  and  infusion  into 
the  world  of  the  religious  element  of  civilization.  Their 
history,  accordingly,  is  the  history  of  the  rise,  progress, 
and  diffusion  of  true  religion,  considered  in  its  source 
and  its  developments.  Such  a history  must  possess 
large  and  peculiar  interest  for  every  student  of  human 
nature,  and  pre-emineutty  for  those  who  love  to  study 
the  unfoldings  of  Providence,  and  desire  to  lcam  that 


HISTORY  2: 

greatest  of  all  arts — tlie  art  of  living  at  once  for  time 
ami  lor  eternity. 

The  subject-matter  contained  in  the  Biblical  history 
is  of  a wide  and  most  extensive  nature.  In  its  greatest 
length  and  fullest  meaning  it  conies  down  from  the  cre- 
ation of  the  world  till  near  the  close  of  the  1st  century 
of  the  Christian  a*ra.  thus  covering  a space  of  some 
4000  years.  The  books  presenting  this  long  train  of 
historical  details  are  most  diverse  in  age,  in  kind,  in  ex- 
ecution, and  in  worth ; nor  seldom  is  it  the  fact  that  the 
modern  historian  has  to  construct  his  narrative  as  much 
out  of  the  implications  of  an  epistle,  the  highly-colored 
materials  of  poetry,  the  far-reaching  visions  of  prophe- 
cy, and  the  indirect  and  illusive  information  of  didactic 
and  moral  precepts,  as  from  the  immediate  and  express 
statements  of  history  strictly  so  denominated. 

The  historical  materials  furnished  relating  to  the 
Hebrew  nation  may  be  classed  under  three  great  divi- 
sions: 1.  The  books  which  are  consecrated  to  the  an- 
tiquity of  the  Hebrew  nation — the  period  that  elapsed 
before  the  a*ra  of  the  judges.  These  works  are  the  Pen- 
tateuch and  the  book  of  Joshua,  which,  according  to 
Ewald  ( Geschiehfe  des  Volkes  Israel,  i,  72),  properly  con- 
stitute only  one  work,  and  which  may  be  termed  the 
great  book  of  original  documents.  2.  The  books  which 
describe  the  times  of  the  judges  and  the  kings  up  to  the 
first  destruction  of  Jerusalem;  that  is,  Judges,  Kings, 
and  Samuel,  to  which  belongs  the  book  of  Ruth  : “ all 
these,”  says  Ewald,  “ constitute  also,  according  to  their 
last  formation,  but  one  work,  which  may  be  called  the 
Great  Book  of  Kings.”  3.  The  third  class  comprises 
the  books  included  under  the  head  of  llagiographa, 
which  are  of  a much  later  origin,  Chronicles,  with  Ezra 
and  Nchemiah,  forming  the  great  book  of  general  his- 
tory reaching  to  the  Grecian  period.  After  these  books 
come  those  which  are  classed  together  under  the  name 
of  Apocrypha,  whose  use,  we  think,  has  been  unduly 
neglected.  Then  the  circle  of  evangelical  records  be- 
gins, which  closed  within  the  century  that  saw  it  open. 
Other  books  found  in  the  Old  and  New  Testaments, 
which  are  not  properly  of  a historical  character,  connect 
themselves  with  one  or  other  of  these  periods,  and  give 
important  aid  to  students  of  sacred  history. 

4.  Biblical  history  was  often  treated  by  the  older  writ- 
ers as  a part  of  Church  History  in  general,  since  they 
considered  the  history  given  in  the  Bible  as  presenting 
different  and  successive  phases  of  the  Church  of  God 
(Buddei  Hist.  Eccles.  2 vols.  1726-29;  Stolberg,  Gesch. 
tier  Relifjlon  Jesu,  i,  111).  Other  writers  have  viewed 
this  subject  in  a more  practical  light,  presenting  the 
characters  found  in  the  Bible  for  imitation  or  avoidance ; 
among  whom  may  be  enumerated  Hess  (Gesehiclite  der 
Jsrueliten  vor  den  Zciten  Jesu,  Zurich,  1775)  and  Nie- 
mever  ( Characterisiik  der  Bibtl , Halle,  1830).  Among 
the  more  strictly  learned  writers  several  have  had  it 
in  view  to  supply  the  gaps  left  in  the  succession  of 
events  by  the  Bible,  out  of  sources  found  in  profane 
writers.  Here  the  chief  authors  are  of  English  birth, 
namely,  Prideaux,  Shnckford,  Bussell;  and  for  the  New 
Testament,  the  learned,  cautious,  and  fair-dealing  Lard- 
ner.  There  is  a valuable  work  by  G.  Langen  : Versuch 


have  pursued  a strictly  chronological  method,  such  as 
Usher  (Annate  Vet. X.  T.  Bond.  1 650)  and  Des  Vignoles 
(Chronoloyie  de  Vllistoire  Sainte , Berlin,  1738).  Heeren 
( I/andb . der  Gesehiclite,  p.  50)  recommends,  as  contain- 
ing many  valuable  inquiries  on  the  monarchical  period, 
the  following  -work:  J.  Bernhardi  Commentutio  de  eausis 
quibus  effect um  sit  vt  regnuni  Judes  diutius  persistent 
quam  reejnum  Israel  (Lovanni,  1825).  Ileeren  also  de- 
clares that  Bauer’s  Ilandbuch  der  Gesch.  des  Heir.  Volks 
(1800)  is  the  best  introduction  both  to  the  history  and 
the  antiquities  of  the  Hebrew"  nation;  though  Gesenius 
complains  that  he  is  too  much  given  to  the  construction 
of  hypotheses.  The  English  reader  will  find  a useful 
hut  not  sufficiently  critical  compendium  in  The  History 


7 IIISTRIOMASTIX 

of  the  Hebrew  Commonwealth,  translated  from  the  Ger* 
man  of  John  Jahn,  D.D.,  by  C.  E.  Stowe  (N.  Y.  1829, 
and  later).  A far  more  valuable,  as  well  as  more  inter- 
esting, yet  by  no  means  faultless  work,  is  Oilman's  llis- 
tory  of  the  Jews  (London,  1829,  3 vols.  12nio;  revised, 
Loud,  and  N.Y\  1870-1,  3 vols.  sm.  8vo).  A more  re- 
cent and  very  valuable  work,  Kitto’s  Pictorial  History  of 
Palestine  (Loud.  1841),  combines  with  the  Bible  history 
of  the  Jews  the  results  of  travel  and  antiquarian  research, 
and  is  preceded  by  an  elaborate  Introduction,  which 
forms  the  only  Natural  History  of  Palestine  in  our  lan- 
guage. A valuable  compendium  is  Smith’s  series  of 
“Student's  Histories”  (Old-Testament  History  and  Xeir- 
Testament  History , Loud,  and  N.  Y.  1869,  2 vols.  12mo). 
Stanley’s  Lectures  on  Jeicish  History  (London  and  N.  Y. 
1863  sq.  2 vols.  8vo)  are  more  brilliantly  written. 

German  theologians  are  strongly  imbued  with  the 
feeling  that  the  history  of  the  Hebrews  has  yet  to  be 
written.  Niebuhr’s  manner  of  treating  Roman  history 
has  had  a great  influence  on  them,  and  has  aroused  the 
theological  world  to  new  efforts,  which  have  by  no 
means  yet  come  to  an  end ; nor  can  we  add  that  they 
have  hitherto  led  to  very  definite  and  generally  ap- 
proved results.  The  v-orks  of  the  learned  Jews,  Jost 
(Gesch.  der  Jsrueliten  seit  der  Maccabder,  9 vols. ; Gesch. 
des  Judenthums  und  Seiner  Sekten,  1857-59,3  vols.),  Iltrz- 
feld  (Gesch.  d.  Volkes  Israel  v.d.  Vollenduny  des  Ziceitin 
Tcmpels  bis  tar  Einsetzmig  des  J lackabders  Schimcn , 
1854-57,2  vols.  8vo),Griitz  (Gesehiclite  d.  Juden,  1 1 vols. 
8 vo,  not  yet  completed),  as  wrell  as  that  of  Nork  (Das 
Leben  Mosis  vom  .4 stron.  Stand,  betrachtet,  1838),  Raphall 
(Post-bill.  History  of  the  Jews,  N.  Y.  1855,  of  which  vols. 
i and  ii  only  ever  appeared),  and  others,  must  not  be 
overlooked  by  the  professional  student ; nor  will  he  fail 
to  study  with  care  the  valuable  introductions  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  Old  Testament  put  forth  in  Germain', 
with  which  we  have  nothing  comparable  in  our  lan- 
guage. See  Introduction.  Of  the  more  recent  works 
we  may  mention  Stalielin’s  Kritisch  Untersvchimgen  iiber 
den  Pentateuch,  etc.  (1843),  and  II.  Ewald’s  Gesehiclite 
des  1 'olkes  Israel  bis  Christas  (Gritting.  1843  sq.,  1851-3, 
6 vols.  8vo),  the  first  part  of  which  has  been  translated 
into  English  (London,  1869,2  vols.  8vo).  The  latter  es- 
pecially is  learned,  acute,  and  profound,  but  thoroughly 
pervaded  by  a rationalistic  spirit.  Kurtz’s  M annul  of 
Sacred  History  (Philadel.  1858, 12mo ; from  the  German, 
Konigsberg,  1850,  8vo),  and  History  of  the  Old  Corenant 
(Edinburgh,  1859,3  vols.  8vo;  from  the  German.  Ber- 
lin, 1848-55,  3 vols.  8vo),  are  more  evangelical,  but  less 
searching  and  original.  Weber  und  Holtzmaim’s  Gesch. 
d.  Volkes  Israel  (Leipz.  1866,  2 vols.8vo)  is  rationalistic. 
The  latest  is  Hitzig’s  Gesch.  Isr.  (Lpz.  1870).  For  other 
works,  see  Darling,  Cyclopaedia,  cob  1830  sq. — Kitto. 

History,  Church  8 Ecci.esiastical  Histo- 
ry. 

History  of  Doctrines.  See  Doctrines,  His- 
tory of. 

Histriomastix  is  the  name  of  a hook  written  in 
1663  by  William  Prynne,  a Puritan  barrister,  against 
plays,  masks,  dancing,  etc.  It  is  a thick  quarto  of  1006 
pages,  and  abounds  with  learning  and  curious  quota- 
tions. The  author  of  this  work  was  arraigned  before 
the  Star  Chamber  Fcl>.  7,  1663,  on  account  of  passages 
which,  it  was  alleged,  reflected  on  the  religious  con- 
duct of  the  royal  house.  But  ihe  fact  was  that  the  au- 
thor condemned,  and  that  justly,  the  levity  and  volup- 
tuousness of  the  court,  and  the  encouragement  which 
even  some  of  the  prelates  gave  to  its  licentiousness. 
Prynne  was  sentenced  “to have  his  book  burned  hv  the 
hands  of  the  common  hangman,  to  be  put  from  the  bar, 
and  to  be  forever  incapable  of  his  profession,  to  be  turn- 
ed out  of  the  society  of  Lincoln’s  Inn,  to  be  degraded  at 
Oxford,  to  stand  in  the  pillory  at  Westminster  and 
Cheapside,  to  lose  both  his  ears,  one  in  each  place,  to 
pay  a fine  of  £5000,  and  to  suffer  perpetual  imprison- 
ment.” But  more  remarkable  than  this,  if  possible,  was 


HITCHCOCK 


278 


HITTITE 


the  violent  speech  of  an  English  earl  (Dorset)  on  this 
occasion.  “1  declare  you  (Prynne)  to  be  a schism- 
maker  in  the  Church,  a sedition  sower  in  the  common- 
wealth, a wolf  in  sheep’s  clothing;  in  a word,  omnium 
malorum  nequissimus,”  continuing  in  this  strain,  and 
closing  thus : “ I would  have  him  branded  in  the  fore- 
head, slit  in  the  nose,  and  have  his  ears  chopped  off.” — 
Xeal,  Jlist.  of  the  Puritans,  i,  old,  317 ; Wood,  A thence 
Ojcoii.  ii,  315;  Granger,  Biocj.  Hist,  ii,  230;  Carwithen, 
History  of  the  Church  of  England , ii,  78-80.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hitciicock,  Edward,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  was  horn  in 
Old  Deerfield,  Mass.,  May  24,  1793.  Poverty,  general 
ill  health,  and,  worse  than  all,  an  affection  of  his  eyes, 
prevented  him  from  the  completion  of  a collegiate 
course:  but,  despite  this,  he  succeeded  in  obtaining  in 
1816  the  prineipalship  of  the  academy  in  his  native 
place,  and  his  success  as  a teacher  received  the  recogni- 
tion of  Yale  College  in  the  degree  of  M.A.,  which  that 
institution  of  learning  conferred  on  him  only  two  years 
later.  In  1819  he  went  to  Yale,  and  studied  theology 
under  Dr.  Taylor  for  about  three  years.  II is  first  and 
only  settlement  in  the  ministry  was  at  Conway,  where 
he  remained  from  1821  to  1825,  when  again  failing 
health  induced  him  to  accept  the  professorship  of  natu- 
ral history  and  chemistry  in  Amherst  College,  which 
gave  him  the  prospect  of  more  exercise  and  less  ex- 
haustive labors.  lie  entered  this  new  position  after 
some  preparatory  study  under  Prof.  Silliman,  senior,  of 
Yale  College.  In  1845  he  was  elected  president  of  Am- 
herst College,  and  professor  of  natural  theology  and  ge- 
ology. In  1854  he  resigned  the  presidency,  but  still 
continued  in  the  chair  of  geology.  He  died  Feb.  27, 
1861.  Dr.  Hitchcock  is  especially  deserving  of  our  rec- 
ognition in  this  place  on  account  of  his  Religion  of  Ge- 
ology and  its  connected  Sciences  (Boston,  1851, 12mo),the 
result  of  thirty  years’  study  and  reflection,  which  had  a 
very  extended  circulation  both  in  this  country  and  in 
Europe.  Among  Dr.  Hitchcock’s  peculiar  literary  traits 
(see  the  Biblioth.  Sacra , July,  1851,  p.  662,  663)  may  be 
mentioned  “ his  mode  of  answering  the  objection  to  the 
resurrection  of  the  body ; his  proof’s  from  geology  of  the 
benevolence  of  God,  of  special  providence,  and  of  special 
divine  interposition  in  nature”  (comp,  his  articles  in  Bib. 
Sacra,  x,  166-194,  “Relations  and  Duties  of  the  Philos- 
opher and  Theologian ;”  and  xi,  776-800,  “ Special  Divine 
Interpositions  in  Nature”).  Dr. William  S.  Tyler,  pro- 
fessor in  Amherst  College,  who  preached  a discourse  at 
Dr.  Hitchcock’s  funeral,  which  has  been  printed,  gave 
“an  admirable  estimate  and  summary  of  his  life,  char- 
acter, attainments,  and  influence.” — Appleton’s  Cyclop. 
ix,  210,  and  Annual,  1868,  p.  1428 ; Chambers,  Cyclop,  v, 
379 ; A mer.  Presb.  Rev.  July,  1864,  p.  528.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hitchcock,  Enos,  D.D.,  a Congregational  minis- 
ter, was  born  in  Springfield,  Mass.,  graduated  at  Harvard 
in  1767,  and  was  ordained  colleague  of  Mr.Chipman,  pas- 
tor of  the  Second  Congregational  Church  of  Beverley, 
in  1771.  In  1780  he  became  a chaplain  in  the  army, 
and  at  the  close  of  the  war  in  1783  he  took  a pastoral 
charge  in  Providence,  R.  I.  lie  bequeathed  at  his  death, 
which  occurred  in  1803,  $2500  as  a fund  for  the  support 
of  the  ministry,  lie  published  a Treatise  on  Education 
(1790,  2 vols.): — Sermons,  with  an  Essay  on  the  Lord's 
Supper  (1793-1800). — Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  852. 

Hitchcock,  Gad,  D.D.,  a Unitarian  minister,  was 
born  at  Springfield,  Mass.,  Feb.  12,  1718  or  1719.  He 
was  educated  at  Harvard  University,  where  he  grad- 
uated in  1743,  and  was  ordained  and  installed  in  Pem- 
broke (now  Hanson,  Mass.),  in  October,  1748.  During 
the  Revolutionary  War  he  served  as  chaplain.  In  1787 
his  alma  mater  conferred  on  him  the  degree  of  doctor  of 
divinity.  In  1797  he  was  attacked  with  paralysis  while 
preaching  to  his  people,  from  which  he  never  recovered 
so  as  to  engage  any  further  in  active  service.  He  died 
Aug.  8, 1803.  His  writings  were  mainly  sermons  and  a 
(Dudleian)  lecture,  delivered  at  Harvard  College  in 
1779.— Sprague,  Ann.  of  the  Anver.  Pulpit , viii,  29. 


Hitt,  Daxiel,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister  of 
considerable  eminence,  was  born  in  Faucpiier  Count}', 
Va.,  entered  the  itinerancy  in  1790,  became  the  travel- 
ling companion  of  bishop  Asbury  in  1807,  and  in  1808 
was  elected  by  the  General  Conference  one  of  the  agents 
of  the  Methodist  Book  Concern,  the  duties  of  which  of- 
fice he  discharged  lor  eight  years.  He  next,  with  great 
fidelity,  served  as  presiding  elder  until  1822,  when  lie 
became  the  travelling  companion  of  bishop  M‘Kendree. 
In  1823  he  took  charge  of  the  Potomac  District ; after 
two  years’  labors  he  passed  to  the  Carlisle  District,  and 
there  closed  his  earthly  work.  Mr.  Ilitt  was  a man  of 
marked  “simplicity  and  integrity,”  and  “the  affability 
of  his  manners  and  the  sweetness  of  his  disposition,  in 
his  private  intercourse  in  society,  gained  him  the  affec- 
tion of  all.”  He  died  of  typhus  fever,  in  great  peace  and 
sure  hope,  in  September,  1825. — Minutes  ofConf.  i,  507. 

Hit'tite,  or  rather  Chethite  (Heb.  Chitti', 
usually  in  the  plur.  PH,  Sept. Xerraioi;  also  TH 
“children  of  Heth;”  lem.  rPFlfl,  Ezek.  xvi,  3;  plur. 
rVPBn,  1 Kings  xi,  1;  also  1*11  FliSS,  “daughters  of 
Heth,”  Gen.  xxvii,  46),  the  designation  of  the  descencl- 
nts  of  Heth,  and  one  of  the  nations  of  Canaan  (q.  v.). 

I.  Biblical  Notices. — (1.)  With  five  exceptions,  noticed 
below,  the  word  is  *r,"n  =“  the  Chittite;”  in  the  sin- 
gular number,  according  to  the  common  Hebrew  idiom. 
It  is  occasionally  rendered  in  the  A.  V.  in  the  singular 
number,  “ the  Hittite”(Exod.xxiii, 28;  xxxiii,2;  xxxiv, 
11 ; Josh,  ix,  1 ; xi,  3),  but  elsewh.  as  a plur.  (Gen.  xv, 
20;  Exod.  iii,  8,  17 ; xiii,  5;  xxiii,  23;  Numb,  xiii,  29; 
Deut.vii,  1;  xx,  17  ; Josh,  iii,  10;  xii,8;  xxiv,  11;  Judg. 
iii,  5 ; 1 Kings  ix,  20 ; 2 Citron,  viii,  7 ; Ezra  ix,  1 ; Neh. 
ix,  8 ; 1 Esdr.  viii,  69,  Xtrraioi).  (2.)  The  plural  form 
of  the  word  is  S"Pnn  =the  Chittim,  or  Hittites  (Josh, 
i,  4 ; Judg.  i,  26;  1 Kings  x,  29 ; 2 Kings  vii,  6 ; 2 Citron, 
i,  17).  (3.)  “A  Hittite  [woman]”  is  (Ezek.  xvi, 

3,  45).  In  1 Kings  xi,  1,  the  same  word  is  rendered 
“ Hittites.” 

In  the  list  of  the  descendants  of  Noah,  Heth  occupies 
the  second  place  among  the  children  of  Canaan.  It  is 
to  be  observed  that  the  first  and  second  names,  Sidon 
and  Heth,  are  not  gentile  nouns,  and  that  all  the  names 
following  are  gentile  nouns  in  the  sing.  Sidon  is  called 
the  first-born  of  Canaan,  though  the  name  of  the  town 
is  probably  put  for  that  of  its  founder,  or  eponvm,  “ the 
fisherman,”  *A \ievg,  of  Philo  of  Byblus.  It  is  therefore 
probable,  as  we  find  no  city  Heth,  that  this  is  the  name 
of  the  ancestor  of  the  nation,  and  the  gentile  noun,  chil- 
dren of  Heth,  makes  this  almost  certain.  After  the  enu- 
meration of  the  nations  sprung  from  Canaan,  it  is  add- 
ed, “And  afterwards  were  the  families  of  the  Canaanites 
spread  abroad”  (Gen.  x,  18).  This  passage  will  be  illus- 
trated by  the  evidence  that  there  were  Hittites  and 
Amorites  beyond  Canaan,  and  also  beyond  the  wider 
territory  that  must  be  allowed  for  the  placing  of  the 
Ilamatliites,  who,  it  may  be  added,  perhaps  had  not  mi- 
grated from  Canaan  at  the  date  to  which  the  list  of 
Noah’s  descendants  mainly  refers  (see  verse  19).  See 
Canaanite. 

1.  Our  first  introduction  to  the  Hittites  is  in  the  time 
of  Abraham,  when  they  are  mentioned  among  the  in- 
habitants of  the  Promised  Land  (Gen.  xv,  20).  Abra- 
ham bought  from  the  Bene-Cheth,  “ Children  of  Heth” 
— such  was  then  their  title — the  field  and  the  cave  of 
Machpelali,  belonging  to  Ephron  the  Hittite  (Gen.  xxiii, 
3-18).  They  were  then  settled  at  the  town  which  was 
afterwards,  under  its  new  name  of  Hebron,  to  become 
one  of  the  most  famous  cities  of  Palestine,  then  bearing 
the  name  of  Kirjatli-arba,  and  perhaps  also  of  Mam  re 
(Gen.  xxiii,  19;  xxv,  9).  The  propensities  of  the  tribe 
appear  at  that  time  to  have  been  rather  commercial 
than  military.  The  “ money  current  with  the  mer- 
chant,” and  the  process  of  weighing  it,  were  familiar  to 
them ; the  peaceful  assembly  “ in  the  gate  of  the  city” 
was  their  manner  of  receiving  the  stranger  who  was  de- 


HITTITE 


279 


IIITTITE 


sirous  of  having  a “ possession”  “ secured”  to  him  among 
them.  The  dignity  and  courtesy  of  their  demeanor  also 
come  out  strongly  in  this  narrative.  As  Ewald  well  says, 
Abraham  chose  his  allies  in  warfare  from  the  Amorites, 
but  he  goes  to  the  Hittites  for  his  grave.  But  the  tribe 
was  evidently  as  yet  but  small,  not  important  enough  to 
be  noticed  beside  “the  Canaanite  and  the  l’erizzite,” 
who  shared  the  bulk  of  the  land  between  them  (Gen. 

xii,  G;  xiii,  7).  In  the  southern  part  of  the  country 
they  remained  for  a considerable  period  after  this,  possi- 
bly extending  as  far  as  Gerar  and  Beerslieba,  a good 
way  below  Ilebron  (xxvi,  17 ; xxviii,  10).  From  their 
families  Esau  married  his  first  two  wives  (Gen.  xxvi, 
34;  xxxvi,  2 sq.),  and  the  fear  lest  Jacob  should  take 
the  same  course  is  the  motive  given  by  Ecbekah  lor 
sending  Jacob  away  to  Ilaran.  It  was  the  same  feeling 
that  had  urged  Abram  to  send  to  Mesopotamia  for  a 
wife  for  Isaac.  The  descendant  of  Shorn  could  not  wed 
with  Ilamites — “with  the  daughters  of  the  Canaanites 
among  whom  I dwell  . . . wherein  I am  a stranger,”  but 
“go  to  my  country  and  thy  kindred”  is  his  father’s  com- 
mand, “to  the  house  of  thy  mother’s  father,  and  take 
thee  a wife  from  thence”  (Gen.  xxviii,  2 ; xxiv,  4).  See 
IIlVITK. 

From  several  of  the  above  notices  we  learn  that  the 
original  seat  oftlie  Hittites,  the  city  of  Hebron,  was  found- 
ed by  one  Arba  of  the  Anakim,  whence  its  earlier  name, 
and  had  inhabitants  of  that  giant  race  as  late  as  Joshua’s 
time.  It  is  also  connected  with  Zoan  in  Egypt, and  is  said 
to  have  been  built  seven  years  before  that  city  (Numb. 

xiii,  22).  Zoan  or  Avaris  was  built  or  rebuilt,  and  no 
doubt  received  its  Hebrew  or  Shemitic  name,  Zoan,  the 
translation  of  its  Egyptian  name  iia-awar,  in  the  time 
of  the  first  Shepherd-king  of  Egypt,  who  was  of  Phoeni- 
cian or  kindred  race.  It  is  also  to  be  noted  that,  in 
Abraham’s  time,  the  Amorites,  connected  with  the  giant 
race  in  the  case  of  the  Rephaim  whom  Chedorlaomer 
smote  in  Ashteroth  Ivarnaim  (Gen.  xiv,  5),  where  the 
Rephaite  Og  afterwards  ruled,  dwelt  close  to  Hebron 
(ver.  13).  The  Hittites  and  Amorites,  we  shall  see,  were 
later  settled  together  in  the  Oiontes  valley.  Thus  at 
this  period  there  was  a settlement  of  the  two  nations  in 
the  south  of  Palestine,  and  the  Hittites  were  mixed 
with  the  Rephaite  Anakim.  See  Hkdrox. 

2.  Throughout  the  period  of  the  settlement  in  Pal- 
estine, the  name  of  the  Hittites  occurs  only  in  the 
usual  formula  for  the  occupants  of  the  Promised  Land. 
Changes  occur  in  the  mode  of  stating  this  formula,  but 
the  Hittites  are  never  omitted  (see  Exod.  xxiii,  28). 
In  the  enumeration  of  the  six  or  seven  nations  of  Ca- 
naan, the  first  names,  in  four  phrases,  are  the  Canaanites, 
Hittites,  and  Amorites;  in  two,  which  make  no  mention 
of  the  Canaanites,  the  Hittites  and  Amorites ; and  in 
three,  the  former  three  names,  with  the  addition  of  an- 
other nation.  In  but  two  phrases  are  these  three  nations 
further  separated.  It  is  also  to  be  remarked  that  the 
Hittites  and  Amorites  are  mentioned  together  in  a bare 
majority  of  the  forms  of  the  enumeration,  but  in  a great 
majority  of  passages.  The  importance  thus  given  to 
the  Hittites  is  perhaps  equally  evident  in  the  place  of 
I loth  in  the  list  of  the  descendants  of  Noah,  in  the  place 
of  the  tribe  in  the  list  in  the  promise  to  Abraham,  where 
it  is  first  of  the  known  descendants  of  Canaan  (xv,  20), 
and  certainly  in  the  term  “all  the  land  of  the  Hittites,” 
as  a designation  of  the  Promised  Land  in  its  full  extent, 
from  Euphrates  to  the  Mediterranean,  and  from  Leba- 
non to  the  desert  (Josh,  i,  4).  The  close  relation  of  the 
Hittites  and  Amorites  seems  to  be  indicated  by  the 
prophet  Ezekiel,  where  he  speaks  of  Jerusalem  as  daugh- 
ter of  an  Amorite  father  and  a Hittite  mother  (xvi,  3, 
45).  Indeed  the  Hittites  and  Amorites  seem,  in  these 
last-cited  passages,  to  be  named  for  the  Canaanites  in 
general. 

When  the  spies  examined  Canaan  they  found  “the 
Hittites,  and  the  Jcbusites,  and  the  Amorites”  dwelling 
“in  the  mountains”  (Numb. xiii, 29),  that  is,  in  the  high 
tracts  that  afterwards  formed  the  refuges  and  rallying- 


points  of  the  Israelites  during  the  troubled  period  oftlie 
judges.  There  is,  however,  no  distinct  statement  as  to 
the  exact  position  of  the  Hittites  in  Palestine.  We 
may  draw  an  inference  from  their  connection  with  Je- 
rusalem and  the  Amorites,  and  their  inhabiting  the 
mountains,  and  suppose  that  they  w'erc  probably  seated 
chicily  in  the  high  region  of  the  tribe  of  Judah.  Of 
their  territory  beyond  Palestine  there  are  some  indica- 
tions in  Scripture.  The  most  important  of  these  is  the 
designation  of  the  Promised  Land  in  its  full  extent  as 
“all  the  land  of  the  Hittites”  already  mentioned,  with 
which  the  notices  of  Hittite  kings  out  of  Canaan  must 
be  compared.  Whatever  temporary  circumstances  may 
have  originally  attracted  them  so  far  to  the  south  as 
Beerslieba,  a people  having  the  quiet  commercial  tastes 
of  Ephron  the  Hittite  and  his  companions  can  have  had 
no  call  for  the  roving,  skirmishing  life  of  the  country 
bordering  on  the  desert ; ami  thus,  during  the  sojourn 
of  Israel  in  Egypt,  they  had  withdrawn  themselves  from 
those  districts,  retiring  before  Amalck  (Numb,  xiii,  29) 
to  the  more  secure  mountain  country  in  the  centre  of 
the  laud.  Perhaps  the  words  of  Ezekiel  (xvi,  3, 45)  may 
imply  that  they  helped  to  found  the  city  of  Johns. 

From  this  time,  however,  their  quiet  habits  vanish, 
and  they  take  their  part  against  the  invader,  in  equal 
alliance  with  the  other  Canaanitish  tribes  (Josh,  ix,  1 ; 
xi,  3,  etc.). 

3.  Henceforward  the  notices  of  the  Hittites  are  very 
few  and  faint.  We  meet  with  two  individuals,  both 
attached  to  the  person  of  David.  (1.)  “Aliimelech  the 
Hittite,”  who  was  with  him  in  the  hill  of  Hachilah,  and 
with  Abishai  accompanied  him  by  night  to  the  tent  of 
Saul  (1  Sam.  xxvi,  G).  He  is  nowhere  else  mentioned, 
and  was  possibly  killed  in  one  of  David’s  expeditions, 
before  the  list  in  2 Sam.  xxiii  was  drawn  up.  (2.) 
“Uriah  the  Hittite,”  one  of  “the  thirty”  of  David’s 
body-guard  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  39 ; 1 Chron.  xi,  41),  the  deep 
tragedy  of  whose  wrongs  forms  the  one  blot  in  the  life 
of  iris  master.  In  both"  these  persons,  though  warriors 
by  profession,  we  can  perhaps  detect  traces  of  those  qual- 
ities which  we  have  noticed  as  characteristics  of  the 
tribe.  In  the  case  of  the  first,  it  was  Abishai,  the  prac- 
tical, unscrupulous  “son  of  Zeruiah,”  who  pressed  David 
to  allow  him  to  kill  the  sleeping  king:  Aliimelech  is 
clear  from  that  stain.  In  the  case  of  Uriah,  the  absence 
from  suspicion  and  the  generous  self-denial  which  he 
displayed  are  too  well  known  to  need  more  than  a refer- 
ence (2  Sam.  xi,  II,  12).  He  was  doubtless  a prose- 
lyte, and  probably  descended  from  several  generations 
of  proselytes;  hut  the  fact  shows  that  Canaanitish  blood 
was  in  itself  no  bar  to  advancement  in  the  court  and 
army  of  David. 

Solomon  subjected  the  remaining  Hittites  to  the  same 
tribute  of  bond-service  as  the  other  remnants  of  the  Ca- 
naanitish nations  (1  Kings  ix,  20).  Of  all  these  the  Ilit- 
tites  appear  to  have  been  the  most  important,  and  to 
have  been  under  a king  of  their  own ; for  “ the  kings  of 
the  Hittites”  are,  in  1 Kings  x,  29,  coupled  with  the  kings 
of  Svria  as  purchasers  of  the  chariots  which  Solomon  im- 
ported from  Egypt.  It  appears  that  this  was  some  dif- 
ferent division  of  the  Hittite  family  living  far  away  some- 
where in  the  north  ; although,  from  their  connection  in 
2 Kings  vii,  G,  with  the  Egyptians,  others  have  inferred 
that  the  noise  came  from  the  south,  from  which  quarter 
it  seems  they  and  the  Egyptians  were  the  only  people 
who  could  be  expected  to  make  an  attack  with  chariots. 
This  would  identify  them  with  the  southern  Ilivites, 
who  were  subject  to  the  sceptre  of  Judah,  and  show  also 
that  it  was  they  who  purchased  Egyptian  chariots  from 
the  factors  of  Solomon.  It  is  evident  in  any  case,  how- 
ever, that  they  were  a distinct  and  independent  body, 
apparently  outside  the  bounds  of  Palestine.  The  Ilit- 
tites  were  still  present  in  Palestine  as  a distinct  people 
after  the  Exile,  and  are  named  among  the  alien  tribes 
with  whom  the  returned  Israelites  contracted  those 
marriages  which  Ezra  urged  and  Nehemiah  compelled 
them  to  dissolve  (Ezra  ix,  1,  etc. ; comp.  Neh.  xiii,  23- 


IIITTITE 


280 


IIITTITE 


28).  After  this  we  hear  no  more  of  the  Hittites,  who 
probably  lost  their  national  identity  by  intermixture 
with  the  neighboring  tribes  or  nations.  (See  Ilamels- 
veld,  iii,  51  sq. ; Journ.  of  Sac.  Lit.  Oct.  1851,  p.  166.) — 
Ivitto,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v.  See  Heathen. 

4.  Nothing  is  said  of  the  religion  or  worship  of  the 
Hittites.  Even  in  the  enumeration  of  Solomon’s  idola- 
trous worship  of  the  gods  of  his  wives — among  whom 
were  Ilittitc  women  (t  Kings  xi,  1) — no  Hittite  deity 
is  alluded  to  (see  1 Kings  xi,  5,  7 ; 2 Kings  xxiii,  13). 
See  below. 

5.  The  names  of  the  individual  Hittites  mentioned  in 
the  Bible  are  as  follow.  They  are  all  susceptible  of  in- 
terpretation as  Hebrew  words,  which  would  lead  to  the 
belief  either  that  the  Hittites  spoke  a dialect  of  the 
Aramaic  or  Hebrew  language,  or  that  the  words  were 
Hebraized  in  their  transference  to  the  Bible  records. 

At>au  (a  woman),  Gen.  xxxvi,  2. 

Am.MKf.Ecu,  1 Sam.  xxvi,  6. 

Basiiematii,  accurately  Bas’matii  (a  woman);  possibly 
a second  name  of  Adah,  Gen.  xxvi,  34. 

Beeei  (father  of  Judith,  below),  Gen.  xxvi,  34. 

Elon  (father  of  Basmath),  Gen.  xxvi,  34. 

Eiuieon,  Gen.  xxiii,  10, 13, 14,  etc. 

JrniTii  (a  woman),  Gen.  xxvi,  34. 

Uriah,  2 Sam.  xi,  3,  etc. ; xxiii,  39,  etc. 

Zouae  (father  of  Ephrou),  Gen.  xxiii,  S. 

In  addition  to  the  above,  Sidbechai,  who  in  the  He- 
brew text  is  always  denominated  a llushathite,  is  by 
Josephus  (.-1  nt.  vii,  12,  2)  styled  a Hittite.— Smith,  s.  v. 

II.  Notices  in  Ancient  Inscriptions. — 1.  The  Egyptian 
monuments  give  us  much  information  as  to  a Hittite 
nation  that  can  only  be  that  indicated  in  the  two  pas- 
sages in  the  books  of  Kings  above  noticed.  The  kings 
of  the  eighteenth  and  nineteenth  dynasties  made  exten- 
sive conquests  in  Syria  and  Mesopotamia.  They  were 
opposed  by  many  small  states,  which  probably  always 
formed  one  or  more  confederacies.  In  the  time  of  Thoth- 
mes  III  (B.C.  cir.  1450),  the  leading  nation  was  that  of 
the  ttUTEN  (or  luten),  which  appears  to  have  once 
headed  a confederacy  defeated  by  that  king  before  Me- 
giddo  (l)e  Rouge,  Revue  Archeolog.  n.  s.,  iv,  346  sq.). 
The  KneTA  were  conquered  by  or  tributary  to  Thoth- 
mes  III  (Birch,  Annals  of  Thothmes  III , p.  21);  but  it 
is  not  until  the  time  of  Rameses  II  (B.C.  cir.  1306),  sec- 
ond king  (according  to  Manetho)  of  the  nineteenth  dy- 
nasty, that  we  find  them  occupying  the  most  important 
place  among  the  eastern  enemies  of  the  Egyptians,  the 
place  before  held  by  the  kitten.  The  name  is  general- 
ly written  Kiier,  and  sometimes  KiieTA,  and  was  prob- 
ably in  both  cases  pronounced  kiiat.  It  is  not  easy  to 
determine  whether  it  properly  denotes  the  people  or* the 
country;  perhaps  it  denotes  the  latter,  as  it  rarely  has 
a plural  termination;  but  it  is  often  used  for  the  former. 
This  name  is  identical  in  radicals  with  that  of  the  Ilit- 
tites,  and  that  it  designates  them  is  clear  from  its  being 
connected  with  a name  equally  representing  that  of  the 
Amorites,  and  from  the  correspondence  of  this  warlike 
people,  strong  in  chariots,  with  the  non-Palestinian  Hit- 


tites mentioned  in  the  Bible.  The  chief  or  strongest 
city  of  the  khcta,  or  at  least  of  the  territory  subject  to 
or  confederate  with  the  king  of  the  KHeTA,  was  KeTesH, 
on  the  river  arnut,  anurta,  or  arunata.  Keresn 
w&s  evidently  a Kadesh,  “a  sacred  city,”  but  no 

city  of  that  name,  which  could  correspond  to  this,  is 
known  to  us  in  Biblical  geography.  It  is  represented  in 
the  Egyptian  sculptures  as  on  or  near  a lake,  which  Dr. 
Brugsch  has  traced  in  the  modem  lake  of  Kedes,  fed  by 
the  Orontes,  southward  of  Hems  (Emesa).  The  (Jron- 
tes,  it  must  be  observed,  well  corresponds  to  the  a Rena- 
ta. The  town  is  also  stated  to  have  been  in  the  land 
of  amar  (or  amara),  that  is,  of  the  Amorites.  The 
position  of  this  Amoritish  territory  is  further  defined  by 
Carchemish  being  placed  in  it,  as  we  shall  show  in  a 
i later  part  of  this  article.  The  territory  of  these  Hit- 
tites, therefore,  lay  in  the  valley  of  the  Orontes.  It 
probably  extended  towards  the  Euphrates,  for  the  Kiie- 
TA are  also  connected  with  neharena,  or  Mesopotamia, 
not  the  naihri  of  the  cuneiform  inscriptions,  but  it  is 
not  clear  that  they  ruled  that  country.  Probably  they 
drew  confederates  thence,  as  was  done  by  the  Syrians 
in  David’s  time. 

The  greatest  achievement  of  Rameses  II  was  the  de- 
feat of  the  khcta  and  their  allies  near  KeTesn,  in  the 
fifth  year  of  his  reign.  This  event  is  commemorated  in 
a papyrus  and  by  several  inscriptions  and  sculptures. 
The  nations  confederate  with  the  KiieTA  were  the 
akatu  (Aradus?),  maaesu  (51  ash  ?),  r aatsa  or  patasa, 

KES11KES11,  ARUNU,  KATA  IV  AT  A N A , KHERABU  (Ilclboil?), 

akatkra,  ketesh,  neTA,  Arkites,  textene  (or  tra- 
texi’ee),  and  karakamasiia  (Carchemish).  These 
names  are  difficult  to  identify  save  the  seventh  and  the 
last,  but  it  is  evident  that  they  do  not  belong  to  Pales- 
tine. The  Hittites  are  represented  as  having  a regular 
army,  which  was  strong  in  chariots,  a particular  which 
we  should  expect  from  the  Biblical  notices  of  them  and 
of  the  Canaanites,  where  the  latter  name  seems  applied 
to  the  tribe  so  called.  Each  chariot  was  drawn  by 
two  horses,  and  held  three  men,  a charioteer  and  two 
warriors.  They  had  also  cavalry  and  disciplined  infan- 
try. In  the  great  battle  with  Rameses  they  had  2500 
horses,  that  is,  chariots.  The  representations  of  the 
KHCTA  in  the  sculptures  relating  to  this  campaign  prob- 
ably show  that  their  forces  were  composed  of  men  of 
two  different  races.  Sir  Gardner  Wilkinson  thinks  that 
both  belonged  to  the  khcta  nation,  and  it  seems  hardly 
possible  to  form  any  other  conclusion.  “ The  nation  of 
Sheta  [the  initial  character  is  thus  sometimes  read  s/t] 
seems  to  have  been  composed  of  two  distinct  tribes,  both 
comprehended  under  the  same  name,  uniting  in  one 
common  cause,  and  probably  subject  to  the  same  gov- 
ernment.” These  supposed  tribes  differed  in  dress  and 
arms,  and  one  was  sometimes  bearded,  the  other  was 
beardless  (Ancient  Egyptians,  i,  p.  400  sq.).  They  are 
rather  fair  than  yellow,  and  the  beardless  warriors  arc 
probably  of  a different  race  from  the  people  of  Palestine 


HITTITE 


281 


IIIVITE 


generally.  In  some  cases  they  remind  us  of  the  Tatars, 
ami  it  is  impossible  to  forget  that  the  Egyptians  of  the 
Greek  period  evidently  took  the  kucta  for  Scythians 
or  Bactrians.  The  name  Scythian  is  not  remote,  nor  is 
that  of  the  Ivittas,  or  warrior-Tatars  in  the  Chinese 
garrisons;  but  mere  word  resemblances  are  dangerous; 
and  the  circumstance  that  the  Scythians  appear  in  his- 
tory when  the  Ilittites  have  just  disappeared  is  not  of 
much  value.  But  it  is  worthy  of  remark  that  in  the 
time  of  Moses  there  was  a Kephaite  ruling  the  Amorites 
in  Palestine,  as  the  sons  of  Anak  had  apparently  long 
ruled  the  Ilittites  in  Ilebron,  so  that  we  need  not  be 
surprised  to  find  two  races  under  the  same  government 
in  the  case  of  the  Ilittites  of  Syria. 

In  the  twenty-first  year  of  Raineses  II,  the  great  king 
of  the  Ilittites,  KiieTSEKA,  came  to  Egypt  to  make  a 
treaty  of  peace.  A copy  of  the  treaty  is  preserved  in  a 
hieroglyphic  inscription.  From  this  it  appears  that 
KiieTSEKA  had  been  preceded  by  his  grandfather  sa- 
ritARA,  his  father  iuaukasara,  and  his  brother  iuaut- 
nuea,  and  that  in  the  reigns  of  saprara  and  mautnu- 
ra  peace  had  been  made  upon  the.  same  conditions. 
In  a tablet  of  the  thirty-fourth  year  of  the  same  king, 
one  of  his  wives,  a Hittite  princess  with  the  Egyptian 
name  ra-ma-uk-nc-fru,  is  represented  as  well  as  her 
father,  the  king  (or  a king)  of  the  KiieTA.  Solomon 
also,  as  Dr.  Brugsch  remarks,  took  Hittite  women  into 
his  harem  (1  Kings  xi,  1).  llameses  III  (B.C.cir.  1200) 
had  a war  with  the  KiieTA,  mentioned  in  one  of  his  in- 
scriptions with  KeTE  (Keresn)  kaka[k]amsa  (Carche- 
mish),  aratu  (Avadus?),  and  arasa,  all  described  as 
in  the  land  amaba. 

The  religion  of  the  Ilittites  is  only  known  from  the 
above  treaty  with  I Jameses  II,  though  it  is  probable  that 
additional  information  may  be  derived  from  an  exami- 
nation of  proper  names.  In  this  inscription  the  divini- 
ties both  of  the  land  of  KiieTA  and  of  Egypt  are  men- 
tioned, probably  because  they  were  invoked  to  see  that 
the  compact  was  duly  kept.  They  are  described  from 
a Hittite  point  of  view,  a circumstance  which  is  curious 
as  showing  how  carefully  the  Egyptian  scribe  had  kept 
to  the  document  before  him.  They  are  the  gods  of  war, 
and  the  gods  of  women  of  the  land  of  KiieTA  and  of 
Egypt,  the  si'TEKir  of  the  land  of  KiieTA,  the  sutekii 
of  several  forts,  the  ASiiTeRAT  (written  axtcrat)  of 
the  land  of  kucta,  several  unnamed  gods  and  goddesses 
of  places  or  countries,  and  of  a fortress,  the  mountains  and 
rivers  of  the  land  of  KiieTA,  and  of  Egypt,  Amen,  sutekii, 
and  the  winds.  Sutekii,  or  set,  was  the  chief  god  of  the 
Shepherd-kings  of  Egypt  (one  of  whom  appears  to  have 
abolished  all  other  worship  in  his  dominions),  and  is  also 
called  bar,  or  Baal.  Sutekii  is  perhaps  a foreign  form, 
set  seems  certainly  of  foreign  origin.  Ashtcrat  is,  of 
course,  Ashtoreth,  the  consort  of  Baal  in  Palestine.  They 
were  the  principal  divinities  of  the  kiicta,  for  they  are 
mentioned  by  name,  and  as  worshipped  in  the  whole 
land.  The  worship  of  the  mountains  and  rivers  is  re- 
markably indicative  of  the  character  of  the  religion,  and 
the  mention  of  the  gods  of  special  cities  points  in  the 
same  direction.  The  former  is  low  nature-worship,  the 
latter  is  entirely  consistent  with  it,  and,  indeed,  is  never 
found  but  in  connection  with  it. 

The  Egyptian  monuments  furnish  us  with  the  follow- 
ing additional  Hittite  names:  tarakanunasa,  kajia- 
ET,  TARKATATASA  (ail  ally?),  KHERARSARA,  Scribe  of 
hooks  of  the  KiieTA,  resa,  tetara,  krabctusa,  aak- 
iwa  (an  ally?),  sa.iuarus,  tatara,  matkema,  brother 
of  [the  king  of]  the  kucta,  kabsununa  (an  ally?), 
tuatasa  (an  ally?). 

These  names  are  evidently  Shemitic,but  not  Hebrew, 
a circumstance  that  need  not  surprise  us  when  we  know 
that  Aramaic  was  distinct  from  Hebrew  in  Jacob’s  time. 
The  syllables  sera  in  kiict-sera,  and  rah  in  rab-su- 
xuna,  seem  to  correspond  to  the  sar  and  rab  of  Assyr- 
ian and  Babylonian  names,  tetara  may  be  the  same 
name  as  the  Tidal  of  Scripture.  But  the  most  remark- 
able of  all  these  names  is  matkema,  which  corresponds 


as  closely  as  possible  to  Mizraim.  The  third  letter  is  a 
hard  t,  and  the  final  syllable  is  constantly  used  for  the 
Hebrew  dual.  In  the  Egyptian  name  of  Mesopotamia, 
NEii arena,  we  find  the  Chaldee  and  Arabic  dual.  It 
would  therefore  appear  that  the  language  of  the  kucta 
was  nearer  to  the  Hebrew  than  to  the  Chaldee,  tar- 
katatasa  probably  commences  with  the  name  of  the 
goddess  Derceto  or  Atargatis. 

The  principal  source  of  information  on  the  Egyptian 
bearings  of  tins  subject  is  Brugsch’s  Geographische  In- 
schriften,  ii,  20  sq.  The  documents  to  which  he  mainly 
refers  are  the  inscriptions  of  Ramoses  II,  the  poem  of 
PUNTAU n,  and  the  treaty.  The  first  are  given  by  Lop- 
sins  (Denkmiiler,  . lfr/i.iii,bl.  153-161, 164-166, 187, 166; 

I see  also  130,  209),  aud  translated  by  M.  Chabas  (Rev. 
Arch.,  1859) ; see  also  Brugsch, Ilistoire  d’Egypte,  i,  137 
sq. : the  second  is  translated  by  M.  de  Rouge  ( Revue 
Contemporaine,  No.  106,  p.  389  sq.),  Dr.  Brugsch  (II.  ccJ), 
Mr.  Goodwin,  Cambridge  Essays , 1858,  and  in  Bunsen’s 
Egypt's  Place,  iv,  675  sq. ; and  the  third  is  translated 
| bv  Dr.  Brugsch  (II.  cc.)  and  Mr.  Goodwin  (Parthenon, 

| 1862). — Kit  to,  s.  v. 

2.  In  the  Assyrian  inscriptions,  as  lately  deciphered, 
there  are  frequent  references  to  a nation  of  Khutti,  who 
“ formed  a great  confederacy  ruled  by  a number  of  petty 
chiefs,”  whose  territory  also  lay  in  the  valley  of  the 
Orontes,  and  who  were  sometimes  assisted  by  the  people 
of  the  sea-coast,  probably  the  Phoenicians  (Rawlinson’s 
Herodotus,  i,  463).  “ Twelve  kings  of  the  southern 

Khatti  are  mentioned  in  several  places.”  If  the  identi- 
fication of  these  people  with  the  Ilittites  should  prove 
to  be  correct,  it  agrees  with  the  name  Chat,  as  noticed 
under  Hetii,  and  affords  a clew  to  the  meaning  of  some 
passages  which  are  otherwise  puzzling.  These  are  (o) 
Josh. i, 4,  where  the  expression  “all  the  land  of  the  Ilit- 
tites” appears  to  mean  all  the  land  of  Canaan,  or  at  least 
the  northern  part  thereof,  (b)  Judg.  i,  26.  Here  near- 
ly the  same  expression  recurs.  See  Luz.  (c)  1 Kings 
x,  29;  2 Chron.  i,  17,  “All  the  kings  of  the  Ilittites  and 
kings  of  Aram”  (probably  identical  with  the  “kings  on 
this  side  Euphrates,”  1 Kings  iv,  24)  are  mentioned  as 
purchasing  chariots  and  horses  from  Egypt, for  the  pos- 
session of  which  they  were  so  notorious,  that  ((/)  it 
would  seem  to  have  become  at  a later  date  almost  pro- 
verbial in  allusion  to  an  alarm  of  an  attack  by  chariots 
(2  Kings  vii,  G).— Smith,  s.  v. 

Hi'vite  (Heb.  ChivvV,  *\in,  usu.  with  the  art.,  often 
collectively  for  the  plur.,  “ the  IIivite,”i.e.IIivites;  Sept, 
o Ecrttoc),  a designation  of  one  of  the  nations  inhabiting 
Palestine  before  the  Israelites.  See  Canaan.  The  name 
is,  in  the  original,  uniformly  found  in  the  singular  num- 
ber. It  never  has,  like  that  of  the  Ilittites,  a plural,  nor 
does  it  appear  in  any  other  form.  Perhaps  we  may  as- 
sume from  this  that  it  originated  in  some  peculiarity  of 
locality  or  circumstance,  as  in  the  case  of  the  Amorites 
— “ mountaineers,”  and  not  in  a progenitor,  as  did  that 
of  the  Ammonites,  who  are  also  styled  Bene-Ammon — 
children  of  Ammon,  or  the  Ilittites,  Bcne-Clvcth — chil- 
dren of  Ileth.  The  name  is  explained  by  Ewald  ( Cesch . 
i, 318)  as  Binnenlander,  that  is,  “ Midlanders;”  by  (iese- 
nius  (Thes.  p.  451)  as pagani,  “ villagers.”  In  the  follow- 
ing passages  the  name  is  given  in  the  A.V.  in  the  singu- 
lar, “ the  Ilivite  Gen.  x,  17  ; Exod.  xxiii,  28;  xxxiii, 
2 ; xxxiv,  1 1 ; Josh,  ix,  1 ; xi,  3 ; 1 Chron.  i,  15 ; also  Gen. 
xxxiv,  2 ; xxxvi,  2.  In  all  the  rest  it  is  rendered  by  the 
plural. 

1.  In  the  genealogical  tables  of  Genesis  “the  Ilivite” 
is  named  as  one  of  the  descendants — the  sixth  in  order — • 
of  Canaan,  the  son  of  Ham  ( Gen.  x,  17 ; 1 Chron.  i,  15). 
In  the  first  enumeration  of  the  nations  who,  at  the  time 
of  the  call  of  Abraham,  occupied  the  Promised  Land  (Gen. 
xv,  19-21),  the  Hivites  are  omitted  from  the  Hebrew 
text  (though  in  the  Samaritan  and  Sept,  their  name  is 
inserted).  This  has  led  to  the  conjecture,  amongst  oth- 
ers, that  they  are  identical  with  the  Kadmonites,  whose 
name  is  found  there  and  there  only  (Keland,  ralcest.  p. 


HIVITE 


282 


HIVITE 


140 ; Bochart,  Phal.  iv,  36 ; Can.  i,  19).  Ent  are  not  the 
Kadmonites  rather,  as  their  name  implies,  the  represen- 
tatives of  the  Bene-kedem,  or  “ children  of  the  East  ?” 
Moreover,  in  this  passage,  the  position  of  the  Hivites,  if 
represented  by  the  Kadmonites,  would  be  at  the  head  of 
the  nations  usually  assigned  to  the  Land  of  Promise,  and 
this  is  most  unlikely,  unless  the  order  be  geographical. 
A more  ingenious  conjecture  is  that  which  suggests  the 
identity  of  the  Hivites  and  the  Avites,  or  Avim,  on  the 
grounds  (a)  that  at  a later  time  the  Galileans  confound- 
ed the  gutturals;  (b)  that  the  Sept,  and  Jerome  do  not 
distinguish  the  two  names;  (c)  that  the  town  of  ha-Av- 
vim  (A.Y.  “Avvim”)  was  in  the  same  district  as  the  Hi- 
vites of  Gibeon;  ( d ) and  that,  according  to  the  notice 
in  Deut.  ii,  the  Avim  disappear  before  the  Hivites  ap- 
pear; (<?)  to  which  we  may  add  that,  if  Gesenius’s  ety- 
mology be  sound,  it  is  remarkable  that  the  Avim  are  de- 
scribed as  dwelling  “in  villages.”  See  Avim.  On  the 
other  hand,  (it)  it  is  unlikely  that  a dialectic  difference 
would  be  recorded,  and  it  seems  too  slight  to  be  anything 
else;  (£>)  the  Sept,  and  Jerome  are  not  very  careful  as  to 
exact  transcriptions  of  proper  names;  (c)  the  presence 
of  Avim  in  a district  does  not  prove  them  to  be  the  same 
as  other  inhabitants  of  that  district;  (d)  and  the  narra- 
tive in  Deut.  ii  speaks  only  of  the  overthrow,  before  the 
coming  of  the  Israelites,  by  later  settlers,  of  certain  tribes 
or  peoples,  not  mentioned  in  the  list  of  Gen.  x,  which 
were,  as  far  as  stated,  Rephaim,  or  of  Rephaite  stock. 
The  probability  that  the  Avim  were  of  this  stock  is 
strengthened  by  the  circumstance  that  there  was  a rem- 
nant of  the  Rephaim  among  the  Philistines  in  David's 
time,  as  there  was  among  other  nations  when  the  Israel- 
ites conquered  the  country.  Therefore  it  seems  to  us 
very  unlikely  that  the  Avim  were  the  same  as  the  Hi- 
vites, although  they  may  have  been  related  to  each  oth- 
er. The  name  constantly  occurs  in  the  formula  by  which 
the  country  is  designated  in  the  earlier  books  (Exod.  iii, 
8,17;  xiii,  5;  xxiii,  23, 28;  xxxiii,  2;  xxxiv,  11;  Deut. 
vii,  1;  xx,  17;  Josh,  iii,  10;  ix,  1;  xii,  8;  xxiv,  11),  and 
also  in  the  later  ones  (1  Kings  ix,  20;  2 Chron.  viii,  7 ; 
but  comp.  Ezra  ix,  1,  and  Neh.  ix,  8).  It  is,  however,  ab- 
sent in  the  report  of  the  spies  (Numb,  xiii,  29),  a docu- 
ment which  fixes  the  localities  occupied  by  the  Canaan- 
itisli  nations  at  that  time.  Perhaps  this  is  owing  to  the 
insignificance  of  the  Hivites  at  that  time,  or  perhaps  to 
the  fact  that  the  spies  were  indifferent  to  the  special  lo- 
cality of  their  settlements. 

2.  We  first  encounter  the  actual  people  of  the  Hivites 
at  the  time  of  Jacob’s  return  to  Canaan.  Shechem  was 
then  (according  to  the  current  Hebrew  text)  in  their 
possession,  Hamor  the  Hivite  being  the  “ prince  (Nail'S) 
of  the  land”  (Gen.  xxiv,  2).  The  narrative  of  the  trans- 
action of  Jacob,  when  he  bought  the  “ parcel  of  a field,” 
closely  resembles  that  of  Abraham’s  purchase  of  the  field 
of  Machpelah.  They  were  at  this  time,  to  judge  of  them 
by  their  rulers,  a warm  and  impetuous  people,  credulous, 
and  easily  deceived  by  the  crafty  and  cruel  sons  of  Jacob. 
The  narrative  further  exhibits  them  as  peaceful  and  com- 
mercial, given  to  “trade”  (10,21),  and  to  the  acquiring 
of  “ possessions”  of  cattle  and  other  “ wealth”  (10,  23,  28, 
29).  Like  the  Ilittites,  they  held  their  assemblies  or 
conferences  in  the  gate  of  their  city  (20).  We  may  also 
see  a testimony  to  their  peaceful  habits  in  the  absence 
of  any  attempt  at  revenge  on  Jacob  for  the  massacre  of 
the  Shecliemites.  Perhaps  similar  indications  are  fur- 
nished by  the  name  of  the  god  of  the  Shecliemites  some 
generations  after  this,  Ilaal-berith — Baal  of  the  league, 
or  the  alliance  (Judg.  viii,  33 ; ix,  4, 46) ; by  the  way  in 
which  the  Shecliemites  were  beaten  by  Abimelech  (40) ; 
and  by  the  unmilitary  character  both  of  the  weapon 
which  caused  Abimelech’s  death  and  of  the  person  who 
discharged  it  (ix,  53).  In  the  matter  that  led  to  the 
overthrow  of  this  Hivite  city  we  see  an  indication  of  the 
corruption  that  afterwards  became  characteristic  of  the 
Canaanitish  tribes  (Gen.  xxxiii,  18-20 ; xxxiv).  Jacob’s 
reproof  of  his  sons  seems  to  imply  that  the  more  power- 
ful inhabitants  of  at  least  this  part  of  the  Promised  Land 


were  Canaanites  and  Perizzites,  these  only  being  men- 
tioned as  likely  to  attack  him  in  revenge  (xxxiv,  30). 
It  is  possible,  but  not  certain,  that  there  is  a reference  to 
this  matter  where  Jacob  speaks  of  a portion  he  gave  to 
Joseph  as  having  been  taken  by  him  in  war  from  the 
Amorite  (xlviii,22),for  his  land  at  Shechem  was  given 
to  Joseph,  but  it  had  been  bought,  and  what  Simeon  and 
Levi  seized  was  probably  never  claimed  by  Jacob,  unless, 
indeed,  the  Hivites,  who  might  possibly  be  spoken  of  as 
Amorites  (but  comp,  xxxiv,  30),  attempted  to  recover  it 
by  force.  Perhaps  the  reference  is  to  some  other  occur- 
rence. It  seems  clear,  however,  from  the  first  of  the  pas- 
sages just  noticed  (xxxiv,  30),  that  the  Hivites  ruled  by 
Hamor  were  a small  settlement.  See  Jacob. 

The  Alex.  MS.,  and  several  other  MSS.  of  the  Sept,r 
in  the  above  narrative  (Gen.  xxxiv,  2)  substitute  “ Ho- 
rite”  for  “ Hivite.”  The  change  is  remarkable  from  the 
usually  close  adherence  of  the  Alex.  Codex  to  the  He- 
brew text,  but  it  is  not  corroborated  by  any  other  of  the 
ancient  versions,  nor  is  it  recommended  by  other  consid- 
erations. No  instances  occur  of  Ilorites  in  this  part  of 
Palestine,  while  we  know,  from  a later  narrative,  that 
there  was  an  important  colony  of  Hivites  on  the  high 
land  of  Benjamin  at  Gibeon,  etc.,  no  very  great  distance 
from  Shechem.  On  the  other  hand,  in  Gen.  xxxvi,  2, 
where  Aholibamah,  one  of  Esau’s  wives,  is  said  to  have 
been  the  daughter  of  the  daughter  of  Zibeon  the  Hivite, 
all  considerations  are  in  favor  of  reading  “ Horite”  for 
“ Hivite.”  In  this  case  we  fortunately  possess  a detailed 
genealogy  of  the  family,  by  comparison  of  which  little 
doubt  is  left  of  the  propriety  of  the  change  (comp.  vcr. 
20,  24,  25, 30,  with  2),  although  no  ancient  version  has 
suggested  it  here.  See  Horitk. 

3.  We  next  meet  with  the  Hivites  during  the  con- 
quest of  Canaan  (Josh,  ix,  7 ; xi,  19),  when  they  are  not 
mentioned  in  any  important  position.  Their  character 
was  then  in  some  respects  materially  altered.  They  were 
still  evidently  averse  to  fighting,  but  they  had  acquired 
— possibly  by  long  experience  in  traffic — an  amount  of 
craft  which  they  did  not  before  possess,  and  which  ena- 
bled them  to  turn  the  tables  on  the  Israelites  in  a highly 
successful  manner  (Josh,  ix,  3-27).  The  colony  of  Hi- 
vites who  made  Joshua  and  the  heads  of  the  tribes  their 
dupes  on  this  occasion,  had  four  cities — Gibeon,  Cheplii- 
rah,  Bceroth,  and  Kirjath-jearim — situated,  if  our  pres- 
ent knowledge  is  accurate,  at  considerable  distances 
apart.  It  is  not  certain  whether  the  last  three  were 
destroyed  by  Joshua  or  not  (xi,  19) ; Gibeon  certainly 
was  spared.  In  verse  11  the  Gibeomtes  speak  of  the 
“elders”  of  their  city,  a word  which,  in  the  absence  of 
any  allusion  to  a Hivite  king,  has  been  thought  to  point 
to  a liberal  form  of  government  (Ewald,  Gesc/i.  i,318,  9). 
This  southern  branch  of  the  nation  embraced  the  Jew- 
ish religion  (2  Sam.xxi,l,4;  Josh. ix, 21.27),  and  seem 
thus  to  have  been  absorbed. 

4.  The  main  body  of  the  Hivites,  however,  were  at 
this  time  living  on  the  northern  confines  of  western  Pal- 
estine— “under  Hermou.  in  the  land  of  Mizpeh”  (Josh, 
xi, 3) — “in  Mount  Lebanon,  from  Mount  Baal-llermon 
to  the  entering  in  of  Hamath”  (Judg.  iii,  3).  Some- 
where in  this  neighborhood  they  were  settled  when  Joab 
and  the  captains  of  the  host,  in  their  tour  of  numbering, 
came  to  “all  the  cities  of  the  Hivites”  near  Tyre  (2  Sam. 
xxiv,  7).  A remnant  of  the  nation  still  existed  in  the 
time  of  Solomon,  who  subjected  them  to  a tribute  of 
personal  labor,  with  the  remnants  of  other  Canaanitish 
nations  which  the  Israelites  had  been  unable  to  expel 
(1  Kings  ix,  20).  In  the  Jerusalem  Targum  on  Gen.  x, 
17,  they  are  called  Tripolitans  (''N^iS*'^),  a name 
which  points  to  the  same  general  northern  locality.  The 
IIermonites  may  perhaps  be  a later  name  for  the  Hi- 
vites ; we  recognise  in  the  Egyptian  ReMexex  alone  any 
trace  of  the  Hivites  in  the  conquests  of  the  Pharaohs 
who  passed  through  this  tract.  Chaseaud  ( Druses , p. 
361  sq.)  refers  the  modern  Druses  (q.  v.)  to  them. 

5.  There  are  few  Hivite  names  recorded  in  Scrip- 
ture. Hamor,  “ the  he-ass,”  was  probably  an  honorable 


HIZKIAH 


283 


HOAG 


name.  Shechem,  “ shoulder,”  “ back,”  may  also  be  in- 
dicative of  strength.  Such  names  are  suitable  to  a 
primitive  people,  but  they  are  not  sufficiently  numerous 
or  characteristic  for  us  to  be  able  to  draw  any  sure  in- 
ference. It  is,  indeed,  possible  that  they  may  be  con- 
nected, as  the  similar  Hittite  names  seem  to  be,  with 
low  nature-worship.  See  Hittite.  The  names  of  the 
Hivite  towns  do  not  help  us.  Gibeon  merely  indicates 
lofty  position;  Kirjath-jearim,  “the  city  of  the  woods,” 
is  interesting  from  the  use  of  the  word  Kirjah,  which 
we  take  to  be  probably  a Canaanitish  form:  the  other 
names  present  no  special  indications. 

6.  In  the  worship  of  Baal-berith,  or  “ Baal  of  the  cov- 
enant,” at  Shechem,  in  the  time  of  the  Judges,  we  more 
probably  see  a trace  of  the  head-citv  of  a Hivite  con- 
federacy than  of  an  alliance  between  the  Israelites  and 
the  Hivites.  (See  Hamelsveld,  iii,  G2  sq. ; Jour,  of  Scic. 
Lit.  Oct.  1851,  p.  166.)— Kitto,  s.  v. ; Smith,  s.  v. 

Hizki'ah  (Heb.  Chizkiyah ',  iTjjTTn : Sept.  ’E^m- 
oq  ; Yulg.  Ezechui),  an  ancestor  of  Zephaniah  the  proph- 
et (Zeph.  i,  1).  See  Hezekiah. 

Hizki'jah  (Heb.  Chizkiyah',  ; Sept.  E&- 

Kia  ; Yw\".  Ezechui),  according  to  the  punctuation  of  the 
A.V.,  a man  who  sealed  the  covenant  of  reformation 
with  Ezra  and  Neliemiah  (Neh.x,  17).  But  there  is  no 
doubt  that  the  name  should  be  taken  with  that  preced- 
ing it,  as  “Ater-Ilizkijah,”  a name  given  in  the  lists  of 
those  who  returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel.  It. 
appears  also  extremely  likely  that  the  two  names  fol- 
lowing these  in  x,  17, 18  (Azznr,  Hodijah)  are  only  cor- 
rupt repetitions  of  them. — Smith,  s.  v.  See  IIezekiaii. 

Hizr,  founder  of  the  llizrevites,  a monastic  order  of 
the  Mohammedans,  lived  at  the  time  of  Orchan  II.  lie 
founded  poor-houses  at  Cairo  and  Babylon,  and  many 
visits  are  made  by  the  Mohammedans  to  his  grave  at 
Brusa.— Pierer,  Univ.-Lexikon,  viii,  41G.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hjort.ViCTon  CnniSTiAX,a  celebrated  liymnologist 
of  the  Protestant  Church,  bom  at  Gundcrslevliolm,  in 
Denmark,  in  1735,  was  bishop  of  Ribe.  His  collection 
of  sacred  songs  were  almost  entirely  inserted  in  the  pub- 
lic hymn-book  of  the  Danish  Church.  lie  published 
also  collections  of  songs  for  the  Sunday-schools  of  work- 
men. soldiers,  etc.  He  died  in  1818,  on  the  island  of 
Amagar,  near  Copenhagen. — Pierer,  Univ.-Lex.  viii,  417. 
(J.II.W.) 

Hoadley  (or  Hoadly),  Benjamin,  an  English 
prelate,  theologian,  and  politician,  was  born  at  Wester- 
ham,  in  Kent,  in  1G7G.  He  studied  at  Catharine  Hall, 
Cambridge,  and  passed  A.M.  in  1699.  In  1700  he  Avas 
appointed  lecturer  at  St.  Mildred’s,  London,  and  in  1702 
rector  of  St.  Peter-le-Poor.  “ His  ability  as  a controver- 
sialist. and  his  love  of  civil  and  religious  liberty,  became 
conspicuous  in  the  strife  of  parties  at  the  beginning  of 
the  century,  when  he  entered  the  field  against  bishop 
Atterbury  and  the  High-Church  party.  His  share  in 
this  debate,  and  his  intimate  connection  with  the  settle- 
ment of  the  new  dynasty  and  the  liberties  of  the  coun- 
try, were  recognised  by  the  House  of  Commons,  who  ad- 
dressed the  queen  in  his  favor,  and  thus  paved  the  way 
for  his  rapid  promotion.”  In  1710  he  was  made  rector 
of  Streatham,  and  on  the  accession  of  George  1, 1714,  he 
became  chaplain  to  the  king.  In  1715  he  was  made 
bishop  of  Bangor.  In  1717  he  preached  the  sermon  be- 
fore the  king,  on  the  text.  My  kingdom  is  not  of  this 
world,  which  gave  rise  to  the  famous  Bangorian  con- 
troversy (q.  v.),  in  which  Hoadley  was  assailed  by  the 
chiefs  of  the  nonjurors,  and  with  most  effect  by  Wil- 
liam Law,  the  champion  of  authority  both  in  Church 
and  State.  This  controversy  was  brought  to  a close 
about  1720,  without  conciliating  either  the  High-Church 
part}’  on  the  one  hand,  or  the  Dissenters  on  the  other, 
but  with  great  credit  to  Hoadley’s  ability  and  tolerant 
spirit.  In  1721  he  was  translated  to  Hereford,  and 
thence  in  1723  to  Salisbury.  In  1734  he  was  made  bish- 
op of  Winchester,  lie  died  in  1761.  In  the  political 


history  of  the  Church  of  England,  Iloadlev  is  to  “ be  re- 
garded as  the  great  advocate  of  what  are  called  Low- 
Church  principles,  a species  of  Whiggisni  in  ecclesias- 
tics in  opposition  to  the  high  pretensions  sometimes  ad- 
vanced by  the  Church  or  particular  churchmen.  It  was 
in  this  character  that  he  wrote  his  treatise  on  the  ‘Meas- 
ure of  Obedience  to  the  Civil  Magistrate,’ which  was  an- 
imadverted upon  by  Atterbury,  and  defended  by  I load- 
ley,  whose  conduct  on  this  occasion  so  pleased  the  House 
of  Commons  (as  stated  above)  that  they  represented  in 
an  address  to  queen  Anne  what  signal  service  he  had 
done  to  the  cause  of  civil  and  religious  liberty.”  He 
maintained  the  same  principles  in  the  Bangorian  con- 
troversy. The  Avar  of  pamphlets  on  the  subject  was 
wonderful;  the  number  issued  on  all  sides  Avas  nearly 
fifty,  llis  doctrines  excited  so  violent  discussion  in 
the  loAver  House  of  Com’oeation  that  the  goA-ernment, 
in  order  to  prevent  further  dissensions,  suddenly  pro- 
rogued the  Houses  of  Convocation,  and  they  have  never 
since  been  permitted  to  meet  for  the  dispatch  of  busi- 
ness. The  burden  of  Hoadley’s  offence,  in  the  eyes  of 
High-churchmen,  lies  in  his  doctrine,  as  stated  in  the 
sermon  above  mentioned:  that  the  “Church  is  Christ’s 
kingdom;  that  he  alone  is  laAvgiver;  and  that  he  has 
left  behind  him  no  visible  human  authority:  no  vicege- 
rents Avho  can  properly  be  said  to  supply  bis  place ; no 
interpreters  upon  Avliom  his  subjects  are  absolutely  to 
depend;  no  judges  over  the  consciences  and  religion  of 
his  people.”  Against  the  Dissenters,  and  especially  in 
answer  to  Calamy’s  abridgment  of  the  Life  and  Times 
of  Baxter,  he  Avrote  his  Reasonableness  of  Conformity  to 
the  Church  of  England  (1703,  8vo),  and  his  Defence  of 
Episcopal  Ordination  (1707,  8a’o).  Besides  the  Avritings 
named,  he  Avrote  a number  of  theological  treatises,  in 
which  he  shoivs  great  freedom  of  thought.  His  theol- 
ogy is  Latitudinarian  (q.  \\).  These  Avritings  include 
Letters  on  Miracles,  to  Dr.  Fleetwood  (1702,  4to): — A 
Preservation  against  the  Principles  of  the  Xonjurors 
(1716,  8a-o)  : — Sermons  (1718  et  al.) : — Plain  A ccovnt  of 
the  Nature  and  Enel  of  the  Lord1#  Supper  (1735,  8vo). 
All  these,  Avith  his  Life  of  Dr.  Sam.  Clarke,  his  contro- 
A crsial  pamphlets,  sermons,  etc.,  may  be  found  in  the 
ICorLs  of  Bishop  Hoadley,  edited  by  his  son,  John  Hoad- 
ley, LL.D.  (London,  1773,  3 A'ols.  fol.,  of  Avhieh  the  first 
A'olume  contains  a life  of  bishop  Hoadley).  See  English 
Cyclopaedia ; Biographia  Britannica  ; 1 look,  Eccles.  Bi~ 
ography,  A'ol.  A-i ; Bogue  and  Bennett,  History  of  Dissent- 
ers, ii,  154;  Buchanan,  Just  if.  p.  200-201 ; Skeats,  Hist, 
of  the  Free  Churches  of  England,  p.  227  sq. ; Gass,  Cisch. 
der  Dogmatik,  iii,  327;  Wesley,  1 1 Torks,  ii,  445;  vi,  510; 
Ilagenbach,  History  of  Doctrines  (Smith’s),  ii,  417,  516; 
Mosheim,  Church  Hist,  iii ; Allibone,  Dictionary  of  A u- 
thors,  i,  852. 

Hoadley,  John,  LL.D.,  youngest  son  of  bishop 
Hoadley  (q.A\),Avas  born  in  171 1,  and  educated  at  Cam- 
bridge. He  edited  the  Avorks  of  his  father,  and  A\Tote 
himself  a number  of  poems,  among  Avliich  are  Lore's  Re- 
venge, a pastoral  (1737, 4to)  : — Jephtha , an  oratorio  (1748, 
8vo) : — Force  of  Truth,  oratorio  (1764),  and  others.  He 
died  in  177G. — Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors,\,Sb2. 

Hoag,  Ephraim,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
Avas  born  in  Peru,  X.  Y.,  Sept.  15,  1815.  He  Avas  con- 
verted in  1835,  and,  after  a course  of  study  at  Cazeuovia 
Seminar}’,  entered,  in  1841,  the  Oneida  Conference  (now 
merged  in  the  Central  New  York  Conference).  His  su- 
perior talents  soon  procured  for  him  the  favor  of  the 
people  to  Avhom  he  Avas  sent,  and  the  good  Avislies  of  his 
brethren  in  the  ministry.  Although  comparath’ely  a 
self-made  man,  he  Avas  looked  upon  as  one  of  the  first 
Methodist  ministers  in  Central  NeAV  York.  lie  filled 
the  chief  appointments  of  this  Conference,  e.  g.  Ithaca 
(1852-3),  Utica  (1854-5),  Nonvich  (185G-7),  Cazenovia 
(18G0-L),and  in  1864  was  made  presiding  elder  of  Cort- 
land District.  Here  he  labored  Avith  great  success  for 
four  years,  Avhen  he  was  sent  to  Canastota.  In  1869, 
while  .at  the  session  of  the  neAvly-formed  New  York  Cen- 
tral Conference,  he  Avas  suddenly  struck  Avith  paralysis, 


HOAG 


284 


HOBART 


and  was  obliged  to  ask  for  a superannuate  relation.  He 
died  Oct.  3, 1869.  “As  a preacher  lie  was  earnest  and 
uncompromising,  seeking  to  please  God  and  save  men; 
as  a pastor  he  was  diligent,  earing  for  and  seeking  the 
good  of  all  the  people  under  his  charge.  Of  him  it  was 
true,  the  poor  welcomed  his  coming,  and  blessed  him 
when  he  went  away.” — Ilev.  L.  C.  Queal,  in  the  A orth. 
Christ.  A dvocate , Dec.  10, 1869.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hoag,  Wilbur,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
was  born  at  Oswegatehie,  N.  York,  May  1*2,  1806;  was 
converted  in  1821,  joined  the  Genesee  Conference  in 
1826,  was  stationed  at  Buffalo  in  1831,  was  agent  for  the 
Genesee  Wesleyan  Seminary  in  1832,  and  died  April  12, 
1839.  Mr.  Hoag  was  a man  of  “quick  perception, 
ready  utterance,  and  clear  discrimination.”  He  was  an 
able  business  man,  and  highly  esteemed  as  a winning 
and  successful  minister. — M in.  of  Conferences,  ii,  677. 

Hoar,  Leonard,  one  of  the  early  presidents  of  Har- 
vard College,  was  born  about  1630.  He  graduated  at 
Harvard  in  1650,  and  in  1653  went  to  England  and  con- 
tinued his  studies  at  Cambridge  University.  He  en- 
tered the  ministry  at  Wensted,  in  Sussex  County,  in 
1656,  but  his  nonconformity  to  the  English  Chureh 
caused  his  deposition  in  1662.  A few  years  afterward 
he  decided  to  return  to  America.  His  first  appointment 
was  as  assistant  to  Dr.  Thacher,  in  Boston.  In  1672  he 
was  elected  president  of  Harvard,  but  the  college,  which 
had  suffered  from  mismanagement,  was  then  slenderly 
supported,  and  he  retired  from  this  office  in  less  than 
three  years.  See  Allibone,  Dictionary  of  A uthoi's,  i,  853 ; 
Dictionnaire  Universel,  xix,  309. 

Hoard,  Samuel,  B.D.,  was  born  in  London  in  1599, 
and  educated  at  Oxford.  He  was  rector  of  Moreton, 
Essex.  In  the  latter  years  of  his  life  he  forsook  the 
Calvinistie  path,  and  became  a zealous  advocate  of  the 
Arminian  doctrine.  He  is  said  to  have  been  a fine 
scholar,  especially  at  home  in  the  works  of  the  fathers 
of  the  Church,  and  was  considered  a superior  preacher 
and  good  disputant.  He  died  in  1657.  Hoard  wrote 
God's  Love  to  Mankind  (1633,  4to;  anonymous,  and  an- 
swered bv  Bp.  Davenant  [Cambridge,  1611, 8vo]  and  D *. 
Twiss  [Oxford,  1653,  fol.j,  and  by  Amyraut  of  Saunmr 
in  his  Doctrines  Jo.  Calvini  de  absoluto  Reprobation’is  D<- 
creto  Defensio  adv.  Script,  anonymum  [Saum.  1641, 4to]) : 
— The  Church's  Authority  asserted  (1637,  4to ; and  in 
Ilickes’s  Tracts,  1709,  8vo,  p.  190).  He  also  published 
some  sermons  of  less  value,  however. — Smith’s  Hagen- 
bach,  Hist,  of  Doctrines,  ii,  187 ; Darling.  Cyclop.  Bibliog. 
i,  1498;  Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  853. 

Hoare,  Charles  James,  an  eminent  clergyman  of 
the  Church  of  England,  the  date  of  whose  birth  is  un- 
certain, was  educated  at.  St.  John’s  College,  Cambridge, 
where  he  graduated  in  1803.  In  1806  he  was  elected  fel- 
low of  his  alma  mater;  in  1807  he  was  appointed  vicar  at 
Blanford  Forum,  Dorsetshire  ; in  1821,  at  Godstone;  in 
1829,  archdeacon;  and  in  1831,  canon  of  Winchester.  In 
1847  he  was  translated  to  the  arehdeaconate  of  Surrey, 
which  position  he  resigned  in  1860  on  account  of  his 
age.  He  died  January  15, 1864.  He  was  an  extensive 
writer,  and  many  of  his  works  have  been  published.  A 
complete  list  of  them  is  given  in  Darling’s  C yclop . Bibl, 
i,  1498-99.  Among  them  are,  Course  of  Divine  Judg- 
ments ; eight  Lect.  principally  in  reference  to  the  present 
Times  and  the  impending  Pestilence  (1831,  8vo ; 1832) : — 
Baptism,  or  the  ministration  of  public  Baptism  of  In- 
fants, to  be  read  in  the  Church,  scripturallg  illustrated 
and  explained  (1848,  sm.  8vo  )\— Principles  of  the  Tracts 
for  the  Times  (1841, 8vo) ; and  a number  of  theological 
essays  and  sermons,  of  which  Sermons  on  the  Christian 
Character,  with  occasional  sermons  (3d  edit.  Loud.  1822, 
8vo),  deserve  speeial  notiee. — Appleton’s  Amcr.  Annual 
Cyclop.  1865,  p.  664;  Allibone,  Dictionary  of  Authors,  i, 
853. 

Ho'bab  (Heb.  Chobab',  II“,  beloved;  Sept.  ’0/3a/3, 1 
in  Judg.  Tw/3<//3),  the  son  of  Raguel  the  Midianite,  a 
kinsman  of  Moses  (Numb,  x,  29;  Judg.  iv,  11).  B.C. 


1657.  He  has  usually  been  identified  with  Jethro  (see 
Exod.  xviii,  5,  27,  compared  with  Numb,  x,  29,  30) ; but 
it  is  rather  his  father  Renel  to  whom  the  title  “Moses’s 
father-in-law”  is  intended  to  apply  in  Numb,  x,  29;  for 
that  these  two  latter  were  names  of  the  same  person, 
and  that  the  father  of  Moses’s  wife,  seems  clear  from 
Exod.  ii,  6, 21 ; iii,  1.  Hence  Hobab  was  Moses’s  broth- 
er-in-law (and  so  we  must  render  “TP!  in  Judg.  iv,  11, 
where  the  Auth.  Yers.  has  “ father-in-law,”  being,  it  is 
true,  the  same  applied  elsewhere  to  Jethro,  but  merely 
signifying  any  male  relative  by  marriage,  and  rendered 
even  “son-in-law”  in  Gen. xix,  14) ; so  that  while  Jeth- 
ro (as  was  natural  for  a person  of  his  advanced  age)  re- 
turned to  his  home  (Exod.  xviii,  27),  Moses  prevailed 
upon  Hobab  (whose  comparative  youth  rendered  his 
services  the  greater  object  to  secure)  to  remain  (as 
seems  implied  by  the  absence  of  any  refusal  to  his  sec- 
ond importunity  in  Numb,  x,  32),  so  that  we  find  his 
descendants  among  the  Israelites  (Judg,  iv,  11).  See 
Jetiiro. 

Ho'bah  (Heb.  Chobah’,  “IT!,  hiding-place;  Sept. 
Xo /3d).  a place  to  the  northward  of  Damascus  (bs 
pb’S’TP,  lit.  on  the  left),  whither  Abraham  pursued  the 
kings  who  had  taken  Lot  eaptive  (Gen.  xiv,  15) ; per- 
haps the  Chobai  or  Choba  mentioned  in  the  Apocrypha 
(Xw/3ai\  Judith  xv,  4;  Xw(3ci,  iv,  4).  Eusebius  {0 no- 
mast. s.  v.  Choba)  confounds  this  place  with  Cocaba,  the 
seat  of  the  Ebionites  in  the  4th  century;  and  Burek- 
hardt  (Syria,  p.  312)  found  a village  called  Kokab,  prob- 
ably the  same,  which,  however,  lies  south  of  Damascus. 
This  is  apparently  also  the  village  Iloba,  visited  in  the 
year  1666  by  Ferd.  von  Troilo,  who  says,  “ It  lies  a quar- 
ter of  a (German)  mile  north  from  the  town,  on  the  left 
hand.  Near  the  city  of  Damascus  is  seen  a large  hill, 
where  the  patriarch  Abraham  overtook  and  defeated  the 
army  of  the  four  kings.  There  formerly  dwelt  here  a 
sect  of  Jews,  converted  to  the  (Christian)  faith,  who 
were  called  Ebionites ; but  at  present  the  place  is  in- 
habited by  a great  number  of  Moors  (Arabs)  who  have 
a mosque.  In  the  neighborhood  is  a cave,  in  which  the 
patriarch  offered  to  the  Divine  Majesty  his  thanksgiv- 
ings for  the  victory”  ( Travels , p.  584).  On  the  other 
hand,  Reland  thinks  of  a castle  called  Cancab,  mention- 
ed by  Edrisi  as  being  on  the  lake  of  Tiberias  ( Paleest . p. 
727).  “ Josephus  mentions  a tradition  concerning  Abra- 
ham which  he  takes  from  Nicolaus  of  Damascus:  ‘Abra- 
ham reigned  at  Damascus,  being  a foreigner  . . . and 
his  name  is  still  famous  in  the  country;  and  there  is 
shown  a village  called  from  him  The  Habitation  of 
Abraham'  (.4 nt.  i,  7,  2).  It  is  remarkable  that  in  the 
village  of  Burzeh,  three  miles  north  of  Damascus,  there 
is  a u-ely  held  in  high  veneration  by  the  Mohammedans, 
and  called  after  the  name  of  the  patriarch,  Masjad 
Ibrahim, 1 the  prayer-place  of  Abraham.’  The  tradition 
attached  to  it  is  that  here  Abraham  offered  thanks  to 
God  after  the  total  discomfiture  of  the  Eastern  kings. 
Behind  the  wely  is  a cleft  in  the  rock,  in  which  another 
tradition  represents  the  patriarch  as  taking  refuge,  on 
one  occasion  from  the  giant  Nimrod.  It  is  remarkable 
that  the  word  IJobah  signifies  ‘a  hiding-place.’  (See 
Ritter,  Syria,  iv,  312;  Wilson,  Lands  of  Bible,  ii,  331.) 
The  Jews  of  Damascus  affirm  that  the  village  of  Johor, 
not  far  from  Burzeh,  is  the  Hobah  of  Scripture.  They 
have  a synagogue  there  dedicated  to  Elijah,  to  which 
they  make  frequent  pilgrimages  (see  Porter,  Handbook 
for  Syria  and  Palestine,  p.  491,  492;  Stanley,  Jewish 
Church,  i,  481).”— Smith. 

Hobart,  John  Henry,  D.D.,  Protestant  Episco- 
pal bishop  of  New  York,  was  born  Sept.  14,  1775.  In 
1788  he  entered  the  College  of  Philadelphia,  but  soon 
after  went  to  Princeton,  where  he  passed  A.B.  in  1793 
with  high  honor.  In  1798  he  took  charge  of  two  sub- 
urban churches  near  Philadelphia.  The  two  following 
years  be  was  called  to  New  Brunswiek,  next  to  Hemp- 
stead, Long  Island,  and  later  became  assistant  minister 
of  Trinity,  New  York.  In  1799  he  was  chosen  secre- 


IIOBAKT 


285 


HOBBES 


tary  to  the  House  of  Bishops,  and  subsequently  to  the 
Convention,  and  one  of  the  deputies  to  the  General 
Convention  in  1801.  In  1800  he  was  made  D.D.  by 
Union  College,  and  in  1811  he  was  elected  assistant 
bishop  of  New  York.  Afterwards  he  became  diocesan 
of  New  York,  and  rector  of  Trinity  Church.  He  was  es- 
pecially instrumental  in  the  establishment  of  the  Gen- 
eral Theological  Seminary,  in  which  he  held  the  chair 
of  pastoral  theology  and  pulpit  eloquence.  In  1823,  his 
health  becoming  enfeebled,  a voyage  to  Europe  was 
deemed  desirable,  and  he  remained  there  above  two 
years.  He  preached  in  Borne  when  Protestant  worship 
was  barely  tolerated,  and  made  an  effective  appeal  in 
behalf  of  the  Waldenses.  In  his  journey  through  the 
Italian  States  he  encountered  much  annoyance,  and 
when  at  Milan  was  examined  before  the  civil  magis- 
trates as  to  the  object  of  his  tour.  He  defended  him- 
self with  a freedom  and  frankness  that  left  little  doubt 
of  his  honesty.  When  in  London  he  published  two  vol- 
umes of  Discourses  preached  in  A merica,  which  drew 
forth  warm  expressions  of  approbation  from  the  lead- 
ing periodicals.  On  his  return,  he  resumed  his  vari- 
ous duties  with  zeal  and  energy,  devoting  himself  to  t 
the  promotion  of  every  good  work,  and  feeling  a special  | 
interest  in  the  cause  of  the  Indians.  He  died  at  Au- 
burn Sept.  10,  1830.  llis  publications  include  A Com- 
2>anion  to  the  Altar  (N.  York,  1804,  8vo ; many  editions 
since)  • — Festivals  and  Fasts  (N.  York,  1804, 12mo ; over 
twenty  editions): — Apology  for  Apostolic  Order  (N.  Y. 
1807,  8vo;  1844,  8vo) : — The  State  of  departed  Spirits 
(new  ed.  N.  York,  1840, 12mo) : — Clergyman's  Companion 
(new  ed.  1855, 12mo) : — Christian's  Manual  (12mo ; sev- 
eral editions) ; besides  numerous  charges  and  occasional 
discourses  (reprinted,  New  York,  2 vols.  8vo).  llis  Pos- 
thumous Works,  with  a Memoir  by  the  Per.  Dr,  Berrian, 
were  issued  in  1833  (N.  Y.  3 vols.  8vo).  See  Scliroeder, 
Memoir  of  Dp.  Hobart  (N.  Y.  1833,  !2mo);  M'Vickar, 
Early  and  professional  Years  of  Hobart  (N.  York,  1836, 
12mo) ; Christian  Spectator,  ix,  79 ; Allibone,  Dictionary 
of  Authors,  i,  854;  Sprague,  Annuls,  v,  440;  Christian 
Journal,  x ol.  xiv;  Episcopal  Church  Reg.  A fine  trib- 
ute is  paid  to  bishop  Ilobart  as  an  author  by  Lowndes 
in  his  British  Literature,  p.  656, 833. 

Hobart,  Noah,  a Congregational  minister,  was  born 
at  Hingham  Jan.  12,  1706.  He  graduated  at  Harvard 
College  in  1724,  and  was  ordained  pastor  of  the  First 
Congregational  Church  at  Fairfield,  Connecticut,  Feb.  7, 
1733.  About  this  time  a controversy  arose  in  the  East- 
ern States  respecting  the  Episcopalians,  in  which  Ho- 
bart enlisted,  and  wrote  in  behalf  of  the  validity  of 
Presbyterian  ordination  a pamphlet  entitled  Serious 
Address  to  the  Episcopal  Separation  (1748;  2d  address, 
1751 ; 3d  address,  1761 ).  His  opponents  were  I)r.  John- 
son and  other  ministers  who  had  swerved  from  Con- 
gregationalism. Of  Mr.  Hobart’s  ability  and  learn- 
ing, Dr.  Dwight,  who  was  one  of  the  men  of  his  time, 
says:  “lie  possessed  high  intellectual  and  moral  dis- 
tinction. He  had  a mind  of  great  acuteness  and  dis- 
cernment ; was  a laborious  student ; was  extensively 
learned,  especially  in  history  and  theology ; adorned  the 
doctrine  which  he  professed  by  an  exemplary  life,  and 
was  holden  in  high  veneration  for  his  wisdom  and  vir- 
tue. Among  the  American  writers  of  the  last  century, 
not  one  has,  1 believe,  handled  the  subject  of  Presbyte- 
rian ordination  with  more  ability  or  success.’’  He  died 
Dec.  G,  1773.  Besides  several  sermons,  he  published 
Principles  of  the  Congreg.  Church,  etc.  (1754). — Contrib. 
to  Eccl.  History  of  Connecticut,  p.  385;  Smith’s  Hagen- 
bach,  Hist,  of  Doctrines,  ii,  448;  Sprague,  Annuls  of  the 
American  Pulpit,  i,  375.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hobart,  Peter,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
born  in  England  in  1604,  and  was  educated  at  Cam- 
bridge. After  teaching  and  preaching  for  a time,  he 
emigrated  to  this  country  in  1635,  and  settled,  with  his 
friends  who  had  preceded  him,  in  Hingham,  Mass.  Af- 
ter a residence  of  some  years,  the  people  of  his  former 


charge  at  Haverhill,  England,  urged  him  to  return  to 
them  as  pastor,  but  lie  declined,  and  remained  with  his 

friends,  preaching  only  at  times.  lie  died  in  1678. 

Sprague,  A mails  of  the  A filer.  Pulpit,  i,  68.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hobbes,  Thomas,  an  English  philosopher  and  de- 
ist, was  born  April  5, 1588,  at  Malmesbury,  in  "Wiltshire, 
and  was  educated  at  Magdalen  Hall,  Oxford.  In  1608 
lie  became  tutor  to  lord  Hardwick,  subsequently  earl  of 
Devonshire ; and,  after  their  return  from  travelling,  he 
resided  in  the  family  for  many  years,  during  which  pe- 
riod lie  translated  Thucydides,  and  made  a Latin  version 
of  some  of  lord  Bacon’s  works.  In  1628  he  went  abroad 
with  the  son  of  Sir  Gervase  Clifton,  with  whom  he  re- 
mained some  time  in  France.  lie  returned  in  1631  to 
undertake  the  eilueatiem  e>f  the  young  earl  of  Devon- 
shire. In  1634  he  went  with  his  new  pupil  to  Paris, 
where  he  applied  himself  much  to  natural  philosophy, 
and  afterwards  to  Italy,  where  he  formed  an  acquaint- 
ance with  Galileo.  He  returned  to  England  in  1637,  and 
soon  after  wrote  his  Elementa  Philosophica  de  ('ire  (Par. 
1642).  A second  edition  was  printed  in  Holland  in 
1647,  under  the  superintendence  of  M.  Sorhicrc.  In 
1640,  after  the  meeting  of  the  Long  Parliament,  Hobbes 
withdrew  to  Paris.  Here  he  became  acquainted  with 
Des  Cartes  and  Gassendi.  In  1647  Hobbes  was  ap- 
pointed mathematical  tutor  to  the  prince  of  Wales,  af- 
terwards Charles  II.  llis  treatises  entitled  Human  Na- 
ture and  De  Corpore  Politico  were  published  in  London 
in  1650,  and  in  the  following  year  the  Leviathan.  Of 
the  last  work  he  caused  a copy  to  be  fairly  written  out 
on  vellum,  and  presented  to  Charles  II;  but  the  king, 
having  been  informed  by  some  divines  that  it  contained 
principles  subversive  both  of  religion  and  civil  govern- 
ment, withdrew  his  favor  from  llobbcs,  and  forbade  him 
his  presence.  After  the  publication  of  the  Leviathan 
Hobbes  returned  again  to  England,  and  published  liis 
Letter  upon  Liberty  and  Necessity  (1654),  which  le  d to  a 
long  controversy  with  bishop  Bramhall.  See  11i:am- 
hall.  It  was  about  this  time,  too,  that  he  began  a 
controversy  with  Dr.  Wallis,  the  mathematical  professor 
at  Oxford,  which  lasted  until  llobbcs’s  death.  By  this 
last  controversy  he  got  no  honor.  In  1666  his  Lciia- 
than  and  Dc  Give  were  censured  by  Parliament.  Short- 
ly after  Hobbes  was  still  further  alarmed  by  the  intro- 
duction of  a bill  into  the  House  of  Commons  for  the 
punishment  of  atheism  and  profaneness;  but  this  storm 
blew  over.  In  1672  Hobbes  wrote  bis  own  life  in  Latin 
verse,  being  then  in  his  eighty-fifth  year,  and  in  1675 
published  his  translation  of  the  Iliad  and  Odyssey.  This 
translation  is  wholly  wanting  in  Homeric  lire,  bald  and 
vulgar  in  style  and  diction  ; and  it  must  be  allowed  that 
the  fame  of  the  philosopher  is  anything  but  heightened 
by  his  efforts  as  a poet.  Hobbes's  Dispute  with  Laney , 
bishop  of  Ely,  concerning  Liberty  and  Nicessiiy,  a]  peared 
in  1676;  and  in  1679  lie  sent  his  Behemoth,  or  a History 
of  the  Civil  Wars  from  1640  to  1660,  to  a booksolkr, 
with  a letter  in  which  he  requested  him  not  to  publish 
it  until  a fitting  occasion  offered.  It  appears  from  this 
letter  that  Hobbes,  being  anxious  to  publish  the  book 
some  time  before,  bad  with  that  view  shown  it  to  the 
king,  who  refused  his  permission,  and  for  this  reason 
Hobbes  would  not  now  allow  the  bookseller  to  publish 
it.  It  appeareel,  however,  almost  immediately  after 
Hobbes’s  death,  which  took  place  bv  paralysis  Dec.  4, 
1679. 

In  philosophy  Hobbes  was  the  precursor  of  the  mod- 
ern materialistic  schools  eif  b’cnsationalism  and  Positiv- 
ism. Professing  to  reject  “everything  hypothetical  (of 
all  qualitatum  occultarnm),  he  affected  to  confine  liimsdf 
to  the  comprehensible,  or,  in  other  words,  to  the  phenom- 
ena of  motion  and  sensation.  lie  defines  philosophy  to 
be  the  knowledge,  through  correct  reasoning,  of  phe- 
nomena or  appearances  from  the  causes  presented  by 
them,  or,  vice  versa,  the  ascertaining  of  possible  causes 
by  means  of  known  effects.  Philosophy  embraces  as  an 
object  every  body  that  admits  the  representation  of  pro- 
duction and  presents  the  phenomena  of  composition  and 


HOBBHAHX 


286 


HOCHMANN 


decomposition.  Taking  the  term  Body  in  its  widest 
extent,  he  divides  its  meaning  into  natural  and  political, 
and  devotes  to  the  consideration  of  the  first  his  Philo- 
sophia  Naturulis,  comprehending  the  departments  of 
logic,  ontology,  metaphysics,  physics,  etc.;  and  to  that 
of  the  second  his  Pkilosophia  Cicilis , or  Polity , compre- 
hending morals.  All  knowledge  is  derived  from  the 
senses;  but  our  sensational  representations  are. nothing 
more  than  appearances  within  us,  the  effect  of  external 
objects  operating  on  the  brain,  or  setting  in  motion  the 
vital  spirits.  Thought  is  calculation  ( computatio ),  and 
implies  addition  and  subtraction.  Truth  and  falsehood 
consist  in  the  relations  of  the  terms  employed.  We  can 
become  cognizant  only  of  the  finite;  the  infinite  cannot 
be  imagined,  much  less  known:  the  term  does  not  con- 
vey any  accurate  knowledge,  but  belongs  to  a Being 
whom  we  can  know  only  by  means  of  faith.  Conse- 
quently, religions  doctrines  do  not  come  within  the  com- 
pass of  philosophical  discussion,  but  are  determinable  by 
the  laws  of  religion  itself.  All,  therefore,  that  Hobbes 
has  left  free  to  the  contemplation  of  philosophy  is  the 
knowledge  of  our  natural  bodies  (somatology),  of  the 
mind  (psychology),  and  polity.  His  whole  theory  has 
reference  to  the  external  and  objective,  inasmuch  as  he 
derives  all  our  emotions  from  the  movements  of  the 
body,  and  describes  the  soul  itself  as  something  corpo- 
real, though  of  extreme  tenuity.”  From  these  princi- 
ples no  moral  or  religious  theory  can  flow,  except  that 
of  infidelity.  Though  none  of  Hobbes’s  writings  are 
expressly  levelled  against  Christianity,  few  authors 
have  really  done  more  to  subvert  the  principles  of  mo- 
rality and  religion.  He  makes  self-love  the  fundamen- 
tal law  of  nature,  and  titility  its  end ; morality  is  noth- 
ing but  utility,  and  the  soul  is  not  immortal.  His  writ- 
ings gave  rise  to  a very  voluminous  controversy.  ‘‘The 
Philosopher  of  Malmesbury,”  says  Dr.  Warburton,  “was 
the  terror  of  the  last  age,  as  Tindall  and  Collins  are  of 
this.  The  press  sweat  with  controversy,  and  every 
young  churchman  militant  would  try  his  arms  in  thun- 
dering on  Hobbes’s  steel  cap”  {Divine  Legation,  ii,  9, 
Preface).  Ilis  principal  antagonists  were  Clarendon,  in 
A brief  View  of  the  danyerous  and  pernicious  Errors  to 
Church  and  State  in  Mr.  Hobbes's  Book  entitled  Levia- 
than ; Cudworth,  in  his  Eternal  and  immutable  Morali- 
ty ; and  bishop  Cumberland,  in  his  Latin  work  on  the 
Laws  of  Nature.  Bishop  Bramhall’s  controversy  with 
Hobbes  has  been  noticed  above.  We  may  also  mention 
archbishop  Tenison’s  Creed  of  Mr.  Hobbes  examined , and 
Dr.  Eaehard’s  Dialogues  on  Hobbes.  Hobbes’s  whole 
works  have  been  carefully  re-edited  by  Sir  William 
Molcsworth,  the  Latin  under  the  title  Opera  Philosophi- 
ca  qua;  Latine  Scripsit  W.  Hobbes  (Loud.  1839-45, 5 vols. 
8vo);  English  Works  now  first  collected  (London,  1839,  4 
vols.  8vo).  See  English  Cyclopiedia ; Tennemann,  Man. 
Hist.  Philos.  § 324 ; Mackintosh,  Ethical  Philosophy , § 4 ; 
Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xvii,  § 22 ; Ilallam,  Lit.  of  Eu- 
rope, iii,  271;  Leland,  Deistical  Writers,  ch.  ii ; Morell, 
Modern  Philosophy,  pt.  i,  ch.  i,  § 1 ; Bayle,  Gen.  Diet.  s. 
v. ; Shedd,  History  of  Doctrines,  vol.  ii;  British  Quar- 
terly Review,  vi,  155;  Lewis,  Hist,  of  Phil,  ii,  226-235; 
Krug,  Handworterbuch  d.philos.  Wissensch.  ii.  441-443; 
Leckey,  Hist,  of  Rationalism  (see  Index);  Ilurst,  Hist, 
of  Rationalism,  p.  114  sq.;  Christian  Examiner,  xxix, 
320;  Leidner,  Philos,  p.  270;  Cudworth,  Intel!.  Syst.  ii; 
Farrar,  Hist,  of  Eree  Thought,  p.  121  sq. ; Dorner,  Gesch. 
d.  prof.  Theol. ; Gass,  Gesch.  d.  protest.  Dogmat.  iii,  39, 
322;  Waterland,  Works  (see  Index,  vol.  vi);  Watson, 
1 Porte ; Tennemann,  Gesch.  d.  Philos,  x ; Sigwart,  Gesch. 
d.  Philos,  ii  (see  Index) ; Sehrockh,  Kirchen-Gesch.  s.  d. 
Reform. iii;  Dbderlein,  Lit.  (see  Index);  Westm. Review, 
April,  1867,  p.  162;  Contemp.  Review,  Feb.  1868,  vol.  iii; 
Bibliotheca  Sacra,  viii,  127. 

Hobbhahn,  Joiianx  Wiliiei.m,  a German  theolo- 
gian, was  born  at  Ochsenberg  March  8, 1665;  studied  at 
the  universities  of  LTlm,  Strasburg,  and  Tubingen,  and 
entered  the  ministry  in  1690.  In  1716  he  was  appointed 
superintendent  over  a number  of  churches,  and  pastor 


at  Knittlingen,  where  he  died  in  1727.  Hobbhahn 
wrote,  mainly  under  fictitious  names,  a number  of  ex- 
cellent polemics  against  the  Romish  Church  and  the 
Syneretists.  Of  these,  his  Obsiegende  Walirheit,  and 
A pologet.  Schauplatz  d.  triumphirenden  Walirheit, against 
Eust.  Eisenhut;  Histor.  theolog.  Prufimg  d.  rom.  Pries- 
ter-Weihe,  against  Handle;  and  especially  Angetastete 
Jungfer-Ehe  d.  lutherischen  Kirche,  which  gave  him 
much  trouble,  and  endangered  his  life,  are  considered 
the  best. — Jdcher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1631.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hobbs,  Lewis,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister,  born 
in  Burke  County,  Ga.,  Feb.  1783;  was  converted  in  1804, 
and  entered  the  itinerancy  in  1808.  He  w as  stationed 
in  New'  Orleans  in  1813,  and  died  in  Georgia  in  1814, 
Mr.  Hobbs  was  a voting  man  of  deep  and  uniform  piety, 
great  simplicity  and  zeal  as  a minister,  and  nobly  en- 
dured the  perils  and  hardships  of  missionary  life  in  the 
Southern  wildernesses  and  the  poisonous  climate  of  the 
1 Mississippi. — Minutes  of  Conferences,  i,  254.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Hobhouse,  Sir  Benjamin,  was,  bom  in  1757,  and 
educated  at  Oxford  for  the  bar.  From  1797-1818  he 
was  a distinguished  member  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
and  filled  other  important  stations.  He  died  in  1831. 
His  name  is  mentioned  here  on  account  of  his  Treatise 
on  Heresy  (Lond.  1792, 8vo),  and  his  Reply  to  the  Rev.F. 
Randolph's  Letter  to  the  Rev.  Dr.  Priestly,  or  an  Exam- 
ination of  the  Rev.  F.  Randolph's  Scriptural  Revision  of 
Socinian  Arguments  (Lond.  1792, 8vo;  and  again,  Bath, 
1793, 8vo). — Alii  bone,  Diet,  of A uthors , i,  856. 

Hobnim.  See  Ebony. 

Hoburg,  Christian,  a mystic,  born  at  Luneburg  in 
1607,  was  for  a time  assistant  minister  at  Lauenburg, 
and,  later,  subconreetor  at  Uelzen.  Here  he  was  deposed 
from  his  position  on  aeeount  of  his  mystical  tendencies, 
and  he  retired  to  private  life  at  Hamburg.  Later,  he  was 
appointed  minister  to  congregations  in  the  duchy  of 
Brunswick,  and  finally  became  a Mennonite  preacher  at 
Hamburg.  He  died  in  1675.  Hoburg  wTote  much  un- 
der the  pseudonym  Bachmann  and  Priitorius,  as  Der  un- 
bekannte  Christas  (llamb.  1858;  Frankf.  1695): — Theol. 
Myst.  (2d  edit.  1656;  Nimeg.  1672;  3d  edit.  1684,  and 
often).  See  Lebenbeschreibung  (by  his  son  Philip,  1676) ; 
Pierer,  Umv.  Lex.  viii,  420 ; Jdcher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1668. 
(J.  H.  W.) 

Hocein.  See  Hossein. 

Hoch,  John.  See  ASpinus. 

Hocheisen,  Johann  Georg,  a German  theologian, 
born  at  Ulm  in  1677,  -was  educated  at  the  University  of 
his  native  place  and  at  Tubingen  and  Wittenberg.  At 
the  last  school  he  at  first  devoted  his  time  mainly  to  the 
study  of  philosophy,  but  afterwards  changed  to  the  study 
of  theology.  11c  next  went  to  Hamburg,  where  his 
acquaintance  with  the  great  Fabricius  led  him  to  a more 
thorough  study  of  Greek  and  Hebrew.  In  1705  he  was 
made  M.A.  at  Wittenberg,  and  immediately  began  there 
a course  of  lectures  which  procured  for  him  an  adjunct 
professorship  in  the  philosophical  department,  he  enter- 
ing at  the  same  time  as  a candidate  of  theology.  In  1709 
he  wras  called  as  professor  of  Hebrew'  to  the  gymnasium 
at  Breslau,  where  he  died  in  1712.  Hocheisen  contrib- 
uted largely  to  the  learned  periodicals  of  his  day.  Of 
his  published  works  the  most  important  are  De  Hebrceo- 
rum  rocalium  officio  et  ralore  in  constituendu  syllaba 
(Viteb.  1705,  4to) : — De  Deismo  in  Cartesianismo  depre- 
lienso  (ibid.  1708,  4to): — De  Deismo  in  Theosophia  dep- 
relienso,  contra  Westphalum  novatorem  (ibid.  1709,  4to). 
Some  take  him  to  he  the  author  (though  this  is  unlike- 
ly) of  the  first  letter  in  Vertrauter  Briefwechsel  zweier 
guten  Freunde  v.Wesen  d.  Seele  (1713  and  1734,  8vo),  in 
which  the  sold  is  regarded  only  as  a mere  mechanism 
of  the  body. — During,  Gelehrt.  Theolog.  Deutschlands,  i, 
744 ; Adelimg’s  Jdcher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  Add.  ii,  2029.  (J. 

H.  W.) 

Hochmann  {of  Hochenau),  Ernst  Christoph,  a 
German  mystic,  and  principal  representative  of  the  Witt- 


IIOCIISTETTER  287  IIODEGETICS 


genstein  separatists,  born  at  Ilochenau  (Lauenbnrg)  in 
i GG1  (according  to  Ilagenbach,  1670),  and  educated  at 
Halle  University.  During  his  residence  there  (1699) 
lie  began  to  attract  attention  by  bis  addresses  to  the 
Jews,  whom  he  endeavored  to  convert  to  Christianity. 
In  1702  be  made  a journey  through  nearly  all  Germany, 
and  attacked  the  lukewarmness  of  the  clergy  with  great 
boldness,  oftentimes  entering  the  pulpit  either  during 
the  discourse  or  immediately  after  it.  Pie  also  conduct- 
ed devotional  exercises  in  private  houses,  which  were 
largely  attended  by  the  people.  “ He  was  a man  of  rare 
gifts,  and  was  inspired  by  a sincere  and  resigned  type 
of  piety,  which  brought  many  sides  to  his  heart.”  He 
suffered  great  persecution,  and  was  even  imprisoned  fre- 
quently, but  it  “was  all  borne  by  him  with  patience, 
and  even  with  a certain  degree  of  humor.”  Ilis  adhe- 
rents, in  spite  of  all  these  difficulties,  were  numerous,  and 
his  influence  over  them  without  bounds.  Stilling  says 
that  an  old  pietist  related  to  him  “that  ITochmann  once 
preached  on  the  great  meadow  below  Elberfeld,  called 
the  Ox  Comb,  with  so  much  power  and  eloquence  that 
his  many  hundreds  of  hearers  fully  believed  themselves 
raised  to  the  clouds,  and  that  they  had  no  other  thought 
than  that  the  morning  of  eternity  had  really  dawned.” 
The  theological  views  of  Ilochmann  were  in  the  main 
the  same  as  those  of  the  great  mystics,  Jacob  Boehme 
(q.  v.),  Weigel,  Gielitel,  etc.  He  opposed  infant  bap- 
tism, and  held  that  the  Lord’s  Supper  should  be  admin- 
istered only  to  the  chosen  and  faithful  disciples  of  Christ. 
He  also  insisted  on  a complete  separation  of  Church  and 
State,  and  had  most  peculiar  views  of  the  matrimonial 
state.  The  charge  has  been  laid  against  him  that  he  dis- 
believed the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  but  we  think  with- 
out just  cause.  He  was,  however,  a fervent  believer  in 
the  doctrine  of  perfection,  and  held  that  only  those  men 
should  preach  the  Gospel  who  felt  that  the  Lord  called 
them  to  this  sacred  work.  He  died  in  1721.  Hoeh- 
mann’s  writings  were  published  in  pamphlet  form,  and 
were  few  in  number.  They  are  of  value  mainly  as  an 
index  to  his  life  and  works  as  a Christian  man.  A com- 
plete list  of  them  may  be  found  in  Gobel,  Gesch.  d.  christl. 
Lehens  in  d.  rheimsch-westphal.  evangel.  Kirehe  (Coblenz, 
1852),  ii,  809  sq.  Among  these  we  consider  as  particu- 
larly valuable  his  Glaubensbekemitniss  satntnt  seiner  an  die 
Jnden  gehaltenen  Rede  (1703,  12mo) : — Xecessaria  sup- 
plicatio  et  dehortatio  ad  Germanm  Reetores  s.  Magistra- 
tus  de  dura  persee.  sic  dictor.  Pietistarum  (without  year 
or  date). — Hurst’s  Hagenbacli,  Ch.  Hist,  of  the  1 8th  and 
39 tli  Centuries , i,  167-8;  Adelung’s  Jocher,  Gelelirt.  Lex. 
Add.ii,  2029-2030 ; Fulirmann,  Hdwrtrb.  d.  Kirchengesch. 
ii,  318 ; Herzog,  Real- Eney klop.  vi,  163-164.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hochstetter,  Andreas  Adam,  a distinguished  Ger- 
man theologian  of  the  Lutheran  confession,  was  born  July 
13, 1668,  at  Tiibingen,  and  educated  at  the  university  of 
his  native  place.  In  1688  the  reigning  prince  of  his 
country'  sent  him  abroad  to  visit  the  different  universi- 
ties of  Germany,  Holland,  and  England,  where  he  formed 
an  acquaintance  with  a number  of  distinguished  schol- 
ars. lie  paid  particular  attention  to  the  study  of  the 
Hebrew  and  English  languages.  In  the  latter  he  made 
great  proficiency,  and  translated  into  Latin,  among  oth- 
ers, Stillingfleet’s  Epistolam  ad.  deistum , etc.  On  his  re- 
turn he  was  appointed  a professor  extraordinary  at  his 
alma  mater.  In  1707  he  was  advanced  regular  profess- 
or of  theology  and  city  preacher  of  Tubingen,  and  in 
1711  court  preacher  and  Consistorial  Rath  at  Stuttgart. 
Four  years  later,  however,  he  returned  again  as  professor 
to  the  university.  He  died  April  27,  1718.’  Ilis  own 
works  were  mainly  dissertations,  of  which  the  few  pub- 
lished are  in  pamphlet  form.  A list  of  them  is  given  by 
Jocher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1633.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hockstraten.  See  Hoogstraten. 

Hochwart,  Laurentius  ( Tursemmtams ),  a dis- 
tinguished German  preacher  and  historian  of  the  16th 
century,  bom  at  Tirsehenreut  in  1493,  and  educated  at 
Leipzig.  His  first  years  after  graduation  were  spent  in 


| teaching,  first  at  Freysing,  and  later  at  Ingolstadt.  In 
1528  he  became  pastor  at  Waldsassen,  and  later  at  Tle- 
! gensburg.  In  153 1 he  had  a call  as  preacher  to  the  court 
at  Dresden,  but  he  gave  the  preference  to  an  ofi'er  from 
Eichstadt  which  came  at  the  same  time.  In  1533  he  re- 
| turned  again  to  Ilegensburg,  and  later  went  to  Passau. 
He  died  toward  the  close  of  1569  or  in  the  beginning  of 
1570.  Ilis  valuable  works  were  left  unpublished,  with 
the  exception  of  his  Catalog.  R< 1 1 isponensin m episeopo- 
rum  libris  Hi  (printed  in  A.  F.  Oefel’s  Rerum  lioicunnn 
script,  i,  148-242).  Among  those  unpublished  the  fol- 
lowing are  of  especial  value:  Sermones  Varii:-Mono- 
tessaron  in  quatuor  Evangelia  : — Chrov.  ingens  tnttndi. — 
Wetzer  u.  Wclte,  Kirchc-n-Lexikon,  i,  253 ; Herzog,  Real- 
EncyMop.  vi,  164. 

Hock,  John.  See  yEpinus. 

Hock  Tide  (from  Anglo-Sax.  hocken,  to  seize),  or 
Hoke  Days,  an  English  holiday,  usually  observed  on 
Monday  and  Tuesday  two  weeks  after  Easter,  in  memo- 
ry of  the  slaughter  of  the  Danes  by  Ethclred,  Nov.  13, 
1002,  according  to  Henry  of  Huntingdon,  and  mentioned 
in  the  Confessor’s  Laws.  It  was  the  custom  formerly  to 
collect  money  of  the  parishioners.  A trace  of  this  prac- 
tice is  found  as  late  as  1667.  Collections  were  also  taken 
up  at  town  gates,  as  at  Chichester  in  the  last  century. — 
Walcott,  Sacred  A rclueology,  p.  312. 

Hod  (Heb.  id.  ‘lift,  majesty,  as  often ; Sept."Qo),  one 
of  the  sons  of  Zopliali.  of  the  tribe  of  Asher  (1  Chron.  vii, 
37).  13. C.  ante  1017. 

Hoda'i'ah  (Hebrew  Hodayeva'hu,  marg. 

more  correctly,  JJodavya'hu,  W';Tn,  a prolonged  form 
of  Ilodaviah ; Sept.  ’Ubouta,  Vulgate  Oduja),  the  first 
named  of  the  seven  sons  of  Elioenai,  of  the  descendants 
of  Zerubbabel  (1  Chron.  iii,  24) ; probably  a brother  of 
the  Nahum  of  Luke  iii,  25  (see  Strong’s  Harm,  and  Ex- 
position of  the  Gospels,  p.  17).  I3.C.  cir.  406.  See  Gen- 
ealogy of  Jesus  Christ. 

Kodavi'ak  (Heb.  Hodanjah',  praise  of 

Jehovah,  or  peril,  i.  q.  praise  ye  Jehovah  ; Sept. 

’Qdovia  or  ’Qdovia),  the  name  of  three  or  four  men. 

1.  A chieftain  and  warrior  of  the  tribe  of  Manasseh 
East  at  the  time  of  the  Assvrian  captivity  (1  Chron.  v, 
24).  B.C.  cir.  720. 

2.  Son  of  Has-senuah  and  father  of  Meshullam,  of  the 
tribe  of  Benjamin  (1  Chron.  ix,  7).  B.C.  ante  588. 

3.  A Levite  whose  posterity  (to  the  number  of  74) 
returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  40). 
In  the  parallel  passage,  Nell,  vii,  43,  his  name  is  written 
Hodevah'  (n'T"'"5,  bv  contraction  for  Hodaviah,  marg. 
rr--n,  by  contraction  for  Hodijah  ; Sept.  Obfiovta,  ATil- 
gate  Oduja).  B.C.  ante  536.  Apparently  the  same  is 
elsewhere  called  Judah  (Ezra  iii,  9). 

4.  See  IIodaiaii. 

Hodegetics,  a word  properly  signifying  the  art 
of  induction,  or,  better,  the  art  of  introduction  (rtxvtj 
being  understood  with  be  qyrjrnc))),  but  generally  taken 
to  signify  introduction  (bfitiyia)  itself,  especially  when 
reference  is  made  to  scientific  Hodegetics.  The  Ilode- 
gete  (Ugyrjrgc).  of  course,  is  expected  to  be  thoroughly 
conversant  with  the  science  of  which  he  treats,  and 
which  he  is  to  introduce,  else  he  might  easily  lead  in 
the  wrong  direction,  or  into  another  department.  ( fill- 
er names  for  this  science  are  Methodology  (from  pi $o- 
fiog),or  Propaedeutics  (from  irpo  and  iraiftvu),  mug),  or 
Isagogies  (from  tig  and  ayw).  The  difference  between 
Hodegetics  and  Encyclopaedia  (q.v.)  of  Theology  is,  that 
“ the  former  has  regard  to  the  personal  qualifications  of 
the  student,  his  method  of  study,  his  preparatory  helps, 
etc.,  whereas  the  latter  has  regard  to  the  various  depart- 
ments and  systems  of  the  science  itself.”  The  literature 
of  Hodegetics  is  quite  extensive.  See  Schlegel,  Summe 
v.  Erfahrungen  and  Beobb.  z.  Beflird.  d.  Studien  in  gel. 
Schulen  und  avf  Unir.  (Biga,  1790) ; Kiesevettcr,  Lehrb. 
d.  Hod,  o.  kurze  Anweis.  z.  studieren  (Berl.  1811)  ; Schel- 


H0DEGETI1IA 


288 


IIODY 


ling,  Tories,  iib.  d.  Metkode  d.  tikadcm.  Stadiums  (3d  edit,  i 
Tubingen,  1832) ; Scheidler,  Grundr.  d.  11.  o.  Melhodik  d. 
akadem.  Stud.  (3d  ed.  Jena,  1847).— Krug,  Phil.  Lex.  v, 
1,  531 ; Danz,  Univ.  Wort.  d.  theol.  Lit.  p.  4U4;  Bib.  Sue. 
i,  179.  See  Introduction. 

Hodegetria  (Ocqygrpia,  the  guide)  is  the  name 
which  the  Greeks  give  to  a painting,  said  to  have  been 
the  work  of  St.  Luke,  because  Michael  Palaeologns,  upon 
his  entry  at  Constantinople,  after  the  defeat  of  the  Latins, 
had  this  portrait  borne  in  advance,  he  and  his  army  fol- 
lowing on  foot.  The  Virgin  Mary  is  also  worshipped 
under  this  name  by  the  Sicilians,  especially  at  Messina. 
At  Lome  they  erected  and  dedicated  a church  to  her, 
generally  called  the  Constantinopolitan  Church. — Fuhr- 
mann,  llandwurferb.  d.  Kircliengesch.  ii,  320 ; Broughton, 
Biblioth.  Hist.  Sac.  i,  495. 

Ho'desh  (Heb.  Cho'desh,  a month,  as  often; 
Sept.  ’Acd,  Vulg.  I lodes),  one  of  the  wives  of  Shaharaim, 
of  the  tribe  of  Judah,  several  of  whose  children  are  enu- 
merated (1  Chrou.  viii,  9) ; called  in  ver.  8 more  correct- 
ly Baara  (q.  v.). 

Hode'vali  (Neh.  vii,43).  See  Hodaviaii  3. 

Hodges,  Cyrus  Whitman,  a Baptist  clergy- 
man, w as  born  in  Leicester,  Vt.,  July  9,  1802.  At  the 
age  of  twenty  he  was  licensed  to  preach  in  Brandon,  Vt., 
and  in  the  autumn  of  that  year  accepted  an  invitation 
to  preach  at  Minerva  for  a year.  In  connection  with 
this  work  he  pursued  his  ministerial  studies  under  the 
Bev.  Daniel  O.  Morton,  at  Shoreliam,  but  so  anxious  was 
he  to  be  fully  engaged  in  the  work  of  his  calling  that 
he  abandoned  the  idea  of  a full  course  of  study.  He, 
however,  diligently  improved  such  opportunities  as  he 
had,  and  his  literary  and  theological  acquisitions  be- 
came quite  respectable.  He  was  ordained  in  Chester, 
Warren  Co.,  N.  Y.,  in  1824,  and  remained  there  three 
years.  He  preached  two  years  in  Arlington,  Vt. ; four 
years  in  Shaftesbury ; four  years  in  Springfield ; six 
years  in  Westport,  N.  Y. ; and  five  years  in  Bennington, 
Vt.  Thence  he  went  to  Bristol,  where  he  finished  his 
career.  He  died  April  4, 1851.  He  was  a true  Christian 
pastor;  he  believed  heartily,  entirely.  His  sincerity, 
his  thorough  consecration  to  his  work,  was  the  true 
secret  of  his  effective  and  useful  ministry.  In  1850 
Mr.  Hodges  published  a small  volume  of  sermons. — 
Sprague,  Annals , vi,724. 

Hodges,  Joseph,  a Baptist  minister,  was  born  at 
Norton,  Mass.,  May  19,  1800,  and  was  a graduate  of 
Waterville  College  in  the  class  of  1830.  He  took  the 
full  course  of  study  at  the  Newton  Theological  Institu- 
tion (1830-33).  and  was  licensed  to  preach  by  the  Church 
at  Canton,  Mass.,  in  April,  1831.  He  was  ordained  at 
Weston,  Nov.  18,  1835,  and  was  pastor  of  the  Church 
in  that  place  four  j’ears  (1835-39).  He  had  pastorates 
of  a shorter  or  longer  duration  at  Amherst,  Coleraine, 
Three  Rivers,  Palmer,  East  Brookfield,  and  North  Ox- 
ford, all  in  Massachusetts,  for  fifteen  years  (1840-55). 
For  six  years  (1855—6 1 ) he  was  an  agent  of  the  Amer- 
ican and  Foreign  Bible  Society.  He  died  at  Cambridge, 
Mass.,  Aug.  23,  18(53. 

Hodges,  W alter,  D.D.,  a clergyman  of  the  Huteh- 
insonian  school  and  provost  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford, 
flourished  about  the  middle  of  the  last  century.  He 
provoked  a great  deal  of  attention  by  his  Elihu,  or  an 
Inquiry  into  the  principal  Scope  and  Design  of  the  Book 
of  Job  (London,  1750, 4to;  175],  8vo;  3d  ed.  1756,  12mo, 
and  others),  in  which  he  endeavored  to  show  that  Elihu 
is  the  Son  of  God,  a discovery  which  he  supposed  would 
throw  great  light  on  the  book  of  Job,  and  solve  the  con- 
troversies respecting  the  doctrines  which  have  been  agi- 
tated thereupon.  He  wrote  also  The  Christian  Plan  (2d 
edit.,  with  additions,  and  with  other  theological  pieces, 
London,  1775,  8vo),  a no  less  curious  work  than  the  one 
above  mentioned,  though  it  failed  to  produce  so  much 
sensation.  “The  whole  meaning  and  extent  of  the 
Christian  plan  he  represents  as  embodied,  according  to 


his  interpretation,  in  the  Hebrew  Elohim.”  The  other 
theological  pieces  in  the  addenda  of  this  work  are  on 
the  historical  account  of  David’s  life;  and  on  Sheol,  or 
concerning  the  Place  of  departed  Souls  between  the  Time 
of  their  Dissolution  and  the  general  Resui'rection  ; also, 
Orutio  habita  in  domo  convocatiojiis. — Kitto,  Cyclop,  ii, 
317 ; Darling,  Cyclop.  Sibling,  i,  1504;  Allibone,  Diet,  of 
Author's,  i,  857.  (J.  H.W.) 

Hodgson,  Bernard,  LL.D.,  principal  of  Hertford 
College,  is  the  author  of  Solomon's  Song,  ti'anslated from 
the  Hebrew  (Oxford,  1785,  4to),  in  which  his  chief  de- 
sign has  been  to  give  as  literal  a rendering  of  the  orig- 
inal as  possible.  Also,  The  Proverbs  of  Solomon,  trans- 
lated from  the  Hebrew,  with  Notes  (Oxford,  1788, 4to) : — 
Ecclesiastes,  a new  translation  from  the  original  Hebrew 
(Oxford,  1791, 4to).  The  notes  are  few  in  number,  and 
are  principally  devoted  to  verbal  criticism. — Kitto,  Cy- 
clopedia, ii,  317. 

Hodgson,  Robert,  D.D.,  was  dean  of  Carlisle  in 
1820,  but  the  date  of  his  birth  is  not  known.  lie  pub- 
lished mainly  his  sermons  (London,  1803-42),  and  edited 
the  works  of  his  uncle,  bishop  Porteus,  of  London,  with 
his  life  (Lond.  181G,  G vols.  8vo),  of  whom  he  also  pub- 
lished a biography  (Lond.  1811,8vo).  lie  died  in  1844. 
— Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  858. 

Hodheilids,  an  heretical  sect  of  the  Mohamme- 
dans, who  believe  that  the  saints  live  in  Paradise  in  an 
undisturbed  quiet.  See  Mohammedanism. 

Hodi'ah  (fPiTh^,  the  same  as  Hodijah  [q.  v.]),  the 
wife  of  Mered  (Sept,  i)  ’ibovia  ; Alex.  INIS.  T ovoaia),  and 
the  mother  of  Jered,  and  Ileber,  and  Jekuthiel  (1  Cliron. 
iv,  19),  the  same  who  is  called  Jehudijaii 
the  Jewess,  i.  e.  his  Jewish  wife,  as  distinguished  from 
Bithiah,  who  was  an  Egyptian)  in  the  former  part  of 
the  verse. 

Hodi'jall  (Ileb.  Ilodiyah’,  majesty  of  Jeho- 

vah; Sept.  ’Qdovia,  Xlcoviac,  ’Qeooa,  ’Qcovia),  the 
name  of  at  least  two  men. 

1.  One  of  the  Levites  who  assisted  Ezra  in  expound- 
ing the  law  to  the  people  (Neh.  viii,  7 ; ix,  5),  and  sub- 
scribed Neliemiah’s  Covenant  (x,  18;  his  name  is  appar- 
ently repeated  in  ver.  13).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

2.  One  of  the  chief  Israelites  who  subscribed  tha 
covenant  with  Neliemiah  (Neh.  x,  18).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

3.  See  Jeiiudijau. 

Hodshi.  See  Taiitim-Hobshi. 

Hody,  Humphry,  D.D.,  an  English  divine,  was  bom 
Jan.  1, 1G59,  at  Oldeombe,  Somersetshire,  and  was  edu- 
cated at  the  University  of  Oxford.  In  1G84  lie  was 
elected  a fellow  of  Wadham  College,  and  in  the  same 
year  he  published  a Dissertatio  contra  Historian  A restore 
de  LXX  Interpretibus.  ITody  became  principally  known 
by  his  publications  respecting  the  bishops  who  had  been 
deprived  of  their  bishopries  during  the  reign  of  William 
and  Mary  for  refusing  the  oath  of  allegiance.  The  first 
work  which  he  published  on  this  subject  was  a transla- 
tion of  a Greek  treatise,  supposed  to  have  been  written 
by  Nicephorns  in  the  latter  end  of  the  13th  or  the  begin- 
ning of  the  14th  century,  in  which  the  writer  maintains 
that  “ although  a bishop  was  unjustly  deprived,  neither 
he  nor  the  Church  ever  made  a separation,  if  the  succes- 
sor was  not  a heretic.”  The  original  Greek  work,  as 
well  as  the  English  translation,  were  both  published  in 
1G91.  Dodwell  replied  to  it  in  A Vindication  of  the  De- 
prived Bishops  (Lond.  1G92).  In  the  following  year 
llody  published  The  Case  o f Sees  Vacant  by  an  Unca- 
nonical  Deprivation  (Lond.  1G93, 4to),  in  which  he  replies 
to  the  arguments  of  his  opponents.  These  exertions  of 
Hody  in  favor  of  the  ruling  party  in  the  Church  did  not 
pass  unrewarded.  He  was  appointed  domestic  chaplain 
to  Tillotson,  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  which  office  he 
also  held  under  Tillotson’s  successor.  I Ie  was  presented 
with  a living  in  London,  and  was  appointed  regius  pro- 
fessor of  Greek  at  Oxford  in  1698,  and  archdeacon  of 


IIOE 


289 


Oxford  in  17G4.  He  died  Jan.  20.  1706.  He  founded 
ten  scholarships  at  Wadham  College  in  order  to  pro- 
mote the  study  of  the  Greek  and  Hebrew  languages. 

Of  the  other  works  of  Hody,  the  most  important  are: 
1.  De  Hibliorum  Textibus  Originalibus , versionibus  Gree- 
ds et  Latina  Vulgatei,  libri  to  (Oxford,  1704,  folio),  which 
is  said  by  Bishop  Marsh  to  be  “the  classical  work  on  the 
Septuagint.”  The  first  book  contains  the  dissertation 
against  the  history  of  Aristeas,  which  has  been  mention- 
ed above.  The  second  gives  an  account  of  the  real 
translators  of  the  Septuagint,  and  of  the  time  when  the 
translation  was  made.  The  third  book  gives  a history 
of  the  Hebrew  text  and  of  the  Latin  Vulgate  ; and  the 
fourth,  of  the  other  ancient  Greek  versions : — 2.  The  Res- 
urrection of  the  (same)  Body  Asserted  (Lond.  1694, 8vo): 
_3.  Animadversions  on  two  Pamphlets  lately  published  by 
Mr.  Collier  (Lond.  1696, 8vo).  Sir  W.  Perkins  and  Sir  J. 
Friend  had  been  executed  in  1695  for  treason  against  the 
government ; but  previous  to  their  execution  they  had 
been  absolved  of  their  crime  by  some  nonj tiring  clergy- 
men. This  act  was  condemned  by  the  ecclesiastical 
authorities,  but  was  justified  by  Collier  in  two  pamphlets 
which  he  published  on  the  subject : — 4.  De  Greeds  Illus- 
tribus lint/me  Greece*  Utterarumquehumanionim  instaura- 
toribus  (Lond.  1742).  This  work  was  published  several 
years  after  the  author’s  death  by  Dr.  Jebb,  who  has  pre- 
fixed to  it  an  account  of  Hodv’s  life  and  writings.  See 
English  Cyclopeedia  ; Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors , i,  858 ; 
Hook,  Eccles.  Biography , vi,  104  •,  Ivitto,  Cyclop,  ii,  317. 

Hoe,  Matthias,  of  Hohenegg,  famous  in  history  as 
the  confessor  of  John  George  I,  elector  of  Saxony.  He 
was  born  of  a noble  family  at  Vienna  in  1580,  and  edu- 
cated at  Wittenberg.  In  1600  he  commenced  at  this 
university  a course  of  lectures,  and  published  a pro- 
gramme on  the  position  which  he  was  to  take,  Oratio 
detestans  Petpam  et  Cedvinistas , in  which  he  manifests 
that  great  hatred  for  Romanists  and  Calvinists  which 
characterized  all  the  acts  of  his  life.  Hoe  distinguished 
himself  greatly  both  as  a student  and  a lecturer.  In 
1612  he  was  called  to  Dresden  by  the  elector,  and  be- 
came court  preacher  and  confessor.  His  talents  and 
adroitness  gave  him,  in  time,  complete  possession  of  the 
judgment  and  conscience  of  the  elector,  whom  he  hin- 
dered from  entering  into  a league  with  Frederick  V,  the 
unfortunate  lung  of  Bohemia,  by  representing  to  him 
that  the  Reformed  religion,  which  Frederick  professed, 
was  fatally  wrong,  and  coidd  not  exist  without  injury 
to  Lutheranism,  lloe  seems,  indeed,  to  have  hated  the 
Reformed  even  more  than  he  did  the  Romanists,  and 
there  appears  not  the  shadow  of  a reason  to  assert  that 
he  was  bribed  by  the  emperor.  To  the  declaration  of 
his  principles  while  a lecturer  at  Wittenberg,  and  above 
alluded  to,  he  adhered  until  the  end  of  his  life,  though 
it  is  said  he  greatly  abated  in  his  hatred  against  the 
Calvinists  in  his  last  days.  His  private  character  has 
been  highly  commented  upon  by  all  who  knew  him. 
He  wrote  a Commentarius  in  Apocalypsin  (Lpz.  1610-40, 
2 parts),  and  a number  of  controversial  works  against 
the  Reformed  Church  and  the  Romanists.  He  died  in 
1645.  See  Bayle,  Gen.  Dictioneiry,  s.  v. ; Ilerzog,  Rectl- 
Encyldop.  vol.  vi,  165 ; Mosheim,  Ch.  History , cent,  xvii, 
sec.  ii,  pt.  i,  ch.  i,  n.  12;  Gass,  Gesch.  el.  Dogmatik,  ii,  19, 
78 ; Kurtz,  Ch.  History , ii,  183 ; Dorner,  Gesch.  d. protest. 
Theol.  (see  Index) ; Fuhrmann,  Handworterb.  d.  Kirch- 
engcsch.  ii,  320-322.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hoefel.  See  LIofel. 

Hoefling.  See  Hoflixg. 

Hoel,  bishop  of  Mans  in  the  13th  century,  made 
himself  quite  conspicuous  by  the  part  which  he  took 
for  the  English  in  the  revolt  of  the  nobility  of  Mans 
against  them  after  the  death  of  William  the  Conqueror. 
He  suffered  imprisonment,  and  after  the  accession  of 
Hugo  was  even  obliged  to  seek  a refuge  in  England. 
But  we  find  him  again  at  Mans  in  1092,  and  an  attend- 
ant at  the  councils  of  Saunwir  (1094)  and  Brives.  Later 
he  travelled  for  a time  with  pope  Urban  II.  He  died 
IV. — T 


HOFACKER 

July  28,  1096. — Hoefer,  Nour\  Biog.  Generede,  xxiv,  859. 
(J.  H.  IV.) 

Hoeschelius,  David,  an  eminent  Greek  scholar, 
born  at  Augsburg  in  1556,  was  professor  at  St.  Anne’s 
College,  and,  later,  the  librarian  of  his  native  city.  He 
died  Oct.  30, 1617.  He  deserves  a notice  here  on  ac- 
count of  his  valuable  editions  of  some  of  the  Greek  fa- 
thers, and  of  a number  of  Greek  authors  who  have  writ- 
ten in  the  department  of  Christian  antiquity  and  eccle- 
siastical history. — Bayle,  Hist.  Did.  iii,  478. 

Hoe  veil  [pronounced  Hoorn'],  Auraiiam  (dks 
Amoiue)  VAX  her,  a celebrated  Dutch  preacher,  bom  at 
Rotterdam  in  1798,  was  for  a time  professor  at  the  sem- 
inary of  the  Remonstrants  at  Amsterdam,  and  later  pro- 
fessor at  Utrecht.  He  died  July,  1855.  lloeven  wrote 
De  Joanne  Clerico  et  Philippo  a Lhnborch  (Amst.  1843). 
— Pierer,  Universal-Lex.  viii,  435. 

Hofacker,  Ludwig,  a German  divine  and  cele- 
brated preacher,  born  at  Wildbad  April  15, 1798,  and  ed- 
ucated at  the  University  of  Tubingen.  While  here  lie 
became  very  zealous  for  the  cause  of  religion,  and  espe- 
cially endeavored  to  encourage  the  study  of  the  Bible 
among  his  fellow -students.  He  formed  Bible-classes 
which  were  largely  attended;  and  his  intimate  acquaint- 
ance with  the  works  of  the  orthodox  commentators 
Bengel,  Oetinger,  and  Steinhofer  rendered  him  especial 
service  in  his  sermons,  which  he  frequently  delivered  at 
this  time,  always  extemporaneously.  After  filling  the 
vica rates  of  Stettin  and  Plieningen,  he  was  appointed  as- 
sistant to  his  father,  preacher  at  St.  Leonard’s,  in  Stutt- 
gard.  He  was  now  only  28  years  old,  but  his  sermons 
attracted  general  attention,  especially  on  account  of  his 
earnestness  and  piety.  In  1826,  after  the  death  of  his 
father,  he  was  sent  to  Rielingsliausen,  near  Marbach.  It 
is  said  that  his  audience  was  composed  not  only  of  his 
own  congregation,  but  that  strangers  came  from  afar  to 
hear  the  young  preacher.  In  the  fall  of  1827,  urged  by 
his  admirers  and  many  friends,  he  began  the  publication 
of  some  of  his  sermons:  Predigten  (1827 ; 27  th  ed.  1866). 
The  rapid  sale  of  these  was  really  surprising.  An  edi- 
tion of  1500  was  exhausted  almost  immediately  after 
publication.  His  sudden  death,  November  18, 1828,  in- 
cited his  friends  to  a publication  of  all  his  sermons. 
They  have  now  been  spread  abroad  in  more  than  100,000 
copies,  not  only  in  Germany,  but  also  in  translations  in 
France,  England,  Denmark,  Sweden,  Russia,  and  our  own 
country.  Speaking  of  his  ability,  Knapp  (Lebeii  r.  L. 
Hofacker,  Heidelb.  1852)  says  that  he  was  the  greatest 
and  most  powerful  preacher  of  the  Wiirtemberg  Church 
in  this  century.  This  opinion  was  confirmed  by  the 
celebrated  F.  W.  Krummacher : “ The  Suabian  Land  lost 
in  him  its  most  powerful  preacher”  (in  his  A utobiogree- 
/>Ay,transLbv  Easton,  p.  207).  A prayer-book,  compiled 
from  posthumous  works  of  Hofacker  and  from  his  ser- 
mons ( Erbauungs - tend  Gebetbnch  fur  edle  Tetge,  Stutt- 
gard),  appeared  in  1869. — Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  xix, 
646  sq. 

Hofacker,  Wilhelm,  a younger  brother  of  Lud- 
wig (q.  v.),  and,  like  him,  a celebrated  preacher  of  the 
Wiirtemberg  Church,  was  born  February  16,  1805.  In 
1828  he  became  assistant  to  his  brother,  who  was  then 
in  failing  health.  After  his  decease  he  travelled  through 
Northern  Germany  on  a literary  tour.  From  1830-1833 
he  delivered  lectures  at  the  University  of  Tubingen  on 
Dogmatics,  based  on  the  work  of  Nitzsch,  pursuing  him- 
self at  the  same  time  a course  of  study.  In  1833  he  was 
appointed  at  Waiblingen,  and  in  January,  1836,  at  St. 
Leonard’s,  in  Stuttgard,  a church  which  his  father  and 
elder  brother  had  served  before  him.  Here  he  died,  Au- 
gust 10, 1848.  Like  his  brother,  he  was  an  earnest  ser- 
vant of  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  a regular  attendant  at 
the  Bible  and  Missionary  meetings  of  the  University 
students  while  at  Tubingen,  where  he  also  was  educated. 
He  was  a zealous  defender  of  the  orthodox  doctrine  of 
the  divinity  of  Christ,  asserting  that  modem  science 
is  more  in  harmony  with  the  Christian  doctrine  of 


IIOFEL 


290 


HOFFMANN 


the  orthodox  Church  than  with  the  speculative  theolo- 
gy of  the  Hegel-8 trauss  school.  He  published,  besides 
a number  of  polemical  articles  in  different  theological 
periodicals,  Tropflein  aus  der  Lebensquelle  (Stuttg.  1863 
and  1864),  and  Predigtenfur  alle  Sonn-  und  Festtage  (ib. 
1853).  Of  his  sermons  nine  editions  have  already  been 
published.  They  contain  a short  biography  written  by 
Kapff,  a German  preacher,  one  of  Hofacker’s  associates 
at  Tubingen  University.  See  Knapp,  Leben  von  L.  Ilof- 
aclcer ; Hartmann,  in  Herzog,  Real-Encykloq).  xix,  649 
sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Hofei,  Johann,  a German  lawyer,  born  at  Uffen- 
heim  in  1600,  and  educated  at  the  universities  of  Stras- 
burg,  Giessen,  and  Jena,  deserves  mention  here  on  ac- 
count of  his  Musica  Christiana  (1634),  and  Ilistorisches 
Gesangbuch  (Schleusingen,  1681).  He  died  in  1683. — 
Pierer,  Univers.  Lex.  viii,  440. 

Hofer,  Joseph  Anton,  a German  Homan  Catholic 
priest,  born  at  Kastelrutli  May  19, 1742,  was  educated  at 
the  University  of  Innspruck.  In  1765  he  was  made 
priest,  in  1722  professor  of  rhetoric  and  prefect  of  the 
Gymnasium  at  Brix,  and  in  1776  professor  of  ecclesias- 
tical law;  here  he  remained,  with  an  interruption  of 
four  years  only,  which  he  spent  at  Innspruck,  until  the 
discontinuance  of  the  school  in  1807,  when  he  was  pen- 
sioned, retaining,  however,  the  title  of  an  ecclesiastical 
councillor  (Rath)  of  the  government.  He  died  in  1820. 
Hofer  contributed  several  articles  to  periodical  litera- 
ture. Of  his  published  works,  Conspectus  Juris  eccles. 
publici  (Brixen,  1781, 4to)  entitles  him  to  a position  in 
theological  literature.  Hofer  published  several  sermons 
which  are  of  superior  merit.  Of  these  the  following  are 
perhaps  the  best : Ermahnungsrede  am  Titularfeste  Ma- 
ria (ib.  1793,  8vo) : — Kunstgriffe  frommer  Eltern  z.  Er- 
ziehung  wohlgesitt.  Kinder  (ib.  1794, 8vo): — Untrugliches 
Kennzeichen  d.sittlich.  Aufersteh.  (ibid.  1798,  8vo). — Do- 
ling, Gelehrten  Theolog.  Dtufschl.  i,  746. 

Hoffbauer,  Clemens  Maria,  a Roman  Catholic, 
and  the  first  Redemptorist  (q.  v.)  in  Germany,  was 
bom  at  Tasswitz,  in  Moravia,  Sept.  26,  1751.  His  par- 
ents had  intended  him  for  the  ministry,  but  the  sudden 
death  of  his  father  left  his  mother  in  destitute  circum- 
stances, and  at  the  age  of  fifteen  Hoffbauer  was  ap- 
prenticed to  a baker.  While  engaged  in  his  trade  he 
studied  Latin,  and  passed  an  examination  in  the  lower 
class  of  a monastery  school,  determined  to  become  a 
priest  at  some  future  time,  if  possible.  The  bishop  of 
Tivoli  (later  Pius  VII)  finally  took  him  under  his  pro- 
tection, and  Hoffbauer  succeeded  in  making  his  way  to 
Vienna,  where  he  studied  at  the  university.  In  1783  he 
went  to  Rome,  whither  he  had  journeyed  already  twelve 
times,  and  joined  the  congregation  of  the  Bedemptor- 
ists.  Two  years  later,  after  consecration  to  the  priest- 
hood,he  returned  tn  Vienna,  and  then  to  Warsaw,  -where 
a house  and  a church  of  St.  Benno  Avere  placed  at  his  dis- 
posal. From  this  he  and  his  associates  afterwards  bore 
the  name  of  Bennonites.  The  success  of  the  Redernp- 
torists  in  the  establishment  of  a monastery  at  this  place 
Avas  so  great  that  Pius  VI,  in  1791,  decided  to  give  them 
an  annual  support  of  100  scudi.  The  Roman  Catholics 
assert  that  many  Protestants  became  converts  of  Iloff- 
bauer,  and  that  their  confidence  in  him  and  his  brothers 
of  the  monastery  Avas  unbounded.  While  the  latter  may 
be  possible,  the  former  is  surely  improbable.  The  effect 
of  the  French  Revolution  may  have  led  some  disturbing 
minds  to  join  the  ranks  of  the  Roman  Catholics,  because 
many  of  that  Church  had  taken  such  a peculiar  attitude 
in  France  against  true  Christianity.  Later  Hoffbauer 
also  established  a monastery  in  Switzerland.  Here  he 
and  his  followers  suffered  great  persecution,  Avhich,  lvhile 
it  is  possible  that  the  disturbed  state  of  the  people  gave 
rise  to  it,  is  more  likely  to  have  been  provoked  by  Hoff- 
bauer and  his  followers.  This  last  supposition  receives 
additional  strength  from  the  dealings  of  Napoleon  Avhile 
in  Prussia.  He  imprisoned  them  one  entire  month  in 
the  fortress  of  Kilstrin,  and,  after  a search  of  their  pa- 


pers, demolished  the  monastery  and  discontinued  the 
order.  Some  time  later  Hoffbauer  succeeded  in  es- 
tablishing an  educational  institution  at  Vienna,  Avhich 
had  been  presented  to  the  Redemptorists  by  a con- 
verted  (?)  Protestant,  In  1815  he  Avent  to  Bulgaria, 
and  returned  to  Vienna  in  1818,  Avhere  the  govern- 
ment (Roman  Catholic)  ordered  him  from  the  coun- 
try. The  intercession  of  the  clergy  influenced  the  em- 
peror not  only  to  annul  the  order  of  the  gOA'ernmcnt, 
but  to  establish  even  a monastery  at  Vienna  under  his 
oavii  protection.  Hoffbauer  died  suddenly  March  25, 
1820.  In  his  labors  he  Avas  assisted  by  J.  T.  Hibel,  Avho 
died  in  1807.  Initial  steps  have  been  taken  for  his  beat- 
ification (q.  a\).  See  Pbsl,  D.  erste  deutsclie  Redemptor- 
ist, in  s.  Leben  und  Wirken  (Reg.  1844);  S.  Brunner,  H. 
und  seine  Zeit  (Vienna,  1850) ; Real-Encyklop. f d.  Ka - 
thol.  Deutschl.  v,  413  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hoffeditz,  Theodore  L.,  D.D.,  a German  Reformed 
minister,  Avas  bom  near  CarhshaA'en,  on  the  Weser,  Ger- 
many, December  16, 1783.  He  emigrated  to  America  in 
1807.  He  first  folloAved  the  calling  of  a school-teacher. 
Subsequently  he  studied  theology  with  ReA\  Samuel 
Helfcnstein,  D.D.,  in  Philadelphia.  He  Avas  licensed 
and  ordained  in  1813,  and  became  pastor  of  German  Re- 
formed congregations  in  Northampton  County,  Pa.,  and 
served  this  charge  during  the  remainder  of  his  life,  Avith 
the  exception  of  brief  intervals,  during  Avhich  he  served 
numerous  congregations  which  he  organized  in  neigh- 
boring counties.  In  1843  he,  Avith  Rev.  Dr.  Schneck,  vis- 
ited Germany,  bearing  a call  from  the  Synod  of  the  Ger- 
man Reformed  Church  to  Dr.  lvrummacher  to  become 
professor  of  theology  in  the  seminary  at  Mercersburg. 
He  died  July  10,  1858.  Mild,  Avarm-hearted,  and  zeal- 
ous, Dr.  Hoffeditz  exerted  a wide  and  blessed  influence 
in  the  Church.  Chic  of  his  sons  entered  the  ministry. 

Hoffmann,  Andreas  Gottlieb,  a A'erv  distin- 
guished theologian  and  Orientalist,  born  April  13, 1796, 
at  Welbsleben,  near  Magdeburg,  Avas  educated  at  the 
University  of  Halle,  Avhere  the  influence  of  Gesenius  led 
him  to  a thorough  study  of  the  Shemitie  languages,  es- 
pecially the  Syriac.  After  graduation  he  lectured  at 
his  alma  mater  for  a short  time  on  the  Arabic  language, 
and  in  1822  Avas  called  as  extraordinary  professor  to 
Jena.  Here  he  Avas  advanced  to  the  regular  professor- 
ship in  1826,  Avith  the  degree  of  S.T.D.  and  membership 
in  the  theological  faculty.  At  the  time  of  his  death, 
March  16,  1864,  he  Avas  senior  ol  the  theological  faculty 
and  of  the  senate  of  the  university.  As  a professor  at 
Jena  he  de\roted  himself  mainly  to  the  philological  de- 
partment of  theology.  His  most  popular  lectures  Avere 
on  Hebrew  Antiquities;  but, like  Gesenius,  he  lectured 
also  on  Church  History,  Isagogics,  both  of  the  Old  and 
Neiv  Testament,  Exegesis  of  the  Old  Testament,  and  on 
all  the  Shemitie  and  Eastern  languages  generally  studied 
at  a German  university.  In  philology,  his  G rammatica 
Eyriaca  (Hal.  1827 ; translated  into  English  by  Day  and 
Cowper)  is  by  some  of  the  best  authorities  considered 
superior  to  any  other  yet  published,  that  of  Ullmann  in- 
cluded. Among  his  other  Avorks  are  Entwurf  d.  hebr.  A l- 
terthumer  (Wcim.  1832),  AA’hicli  is  based  on  the  Avork  of 
Warnekros  ( Weim.  1782  and  1 7 94) Comment  arius  phil.- 
crit.  in  Mosis  benedictionem  (in  pamphlet  form,  Halle ; 
later,  Jena,  1822,  etc.)  : — Apokalyptiker  d.  alt.  Zeit  unter 
Juden  und  Christen  (Jena,  1833-38,  vol.  i,  part  i and  ii, 
containing  the  book  of  Enoch).  Hoffmann  was  also  ed- 
itor of  the  second  section  of  the  great  Encyclopaedia  of 
Erscli  und  Gruber.  In  addition  to  these  literary  labors, 
he  contributed  largely  to  the  German  theological  and 
philological  periodicals.  — Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  xix, 
651;  Hoefer,  A our.  Biog.  Generate , xxiv,  899;  Brock- 
haus,  Conversat.-Lex.  v,  20.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hoffmann,  Daniel,  a Lutheran  theologian,  was 
bom  at  Halle  1540,  and  educated  at  the  University  of 
Jena.  In  1576  he  Avas  made  professor  of  theology  at 
the  Uni\'ersity  of  Helmstadt.  In  the  theological  con- 
troA'ersies  of  his  day  he  took  an  active  part,  contend- 


HOFFMANN 


291 


HOFFMIER 


ing  against  the  Calvinistic  theory  of  the  sacraments,  pre- 
destination, and  also  against  the  doctrine  of  Ubiquity 
(q.v.)  as  held  by  his  own  Church.  He  decried  philoso- 
phy as  hurtful  both  to  religion  and  to  the  community, 
attempting  to  sustain  his  position  by  extracts  from  the 
Pauline  epistles  and  the  writings  of  Luther  himself,  who, 
as  is  well  known,  did  in  his  earlier  years  hold  that  there 
is  a contradiction  between  the  truths  of  theology  and 
those  of  philosophy.  In  his  later  years  Luther  radically 
changed  his  views.  Hoffmann  was  attacked  by  the  two 
great  Aristotelian  philosophers,  Caselius  and  Martini, 
who  also  complained  of  him  at  the  university.  The 
duke  of  Brunswick,  after  consulting  the  University  of 
Rostock.  obliged  Hoffmann  to  retract,  and  vacate  his 
chair  at  the  university.  He  died  at  Wolfcnbiittel  in 
1611.  His  followers,  on  account  of  their  adherence  to  a 
twofold  doctrine,  were  called  duplicists,  and  their  oppo- 
nents simplifies.  His  controversial  writings  are  nu- 
merous, as  De  dupliei  veritate  Lathevi  a pJrilosopkis  im- 
pugnata  (Magdcb.  1G00): — Super  queestione. , num  syllo- 
gisnnts  rationis  locum  habeut  in  regno  Jidei  (ibid.  1GOO). 
An  account  of  his  disputes  majr  be  found  in  Thomasius, 
I)e  Controversia  Ifoffnumniana  (Erlangen,  1 S44,  8vo) , 
Malleus  Impietatis  Hojfmanmanm  (Frankf.  1G04).  See 
Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  185  sq. ; Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist. 
cent,  xvii,  pt.  ii,  chap,  i,  § 10  ; Enfield,  1 list,  oj  Philos,  ii, 
50G ; (lass,  Gesch.  d.  Dogmut.  ii,  73  sq. ; Bavle,  Ilist.  Diet. 
iii,478  sq.;  Krug,  Philos.  Lex.  v,  531  sq.;  Schrockh, Kit- 
chen gesch.  s.  d.  Reform,  iv,  159-61.  See  Hukkius. 

Hoffmann,  Gottfried,  born  at  Plagwitz,  in  Silesia, 
in  1G78,  studied  at  Leipzig,  and  was  rector  of  the  gym- 
nasia at  Lauban  and  Zittau.  He  died  in  1712.  His 
name  is  mentioned  here  on  account  of  his  contributions 
to  hymnology,  as  Leichengesdnge  (Lanb.  1704) : — Busz- 
lieder  (ib.  1705). — Pierer,  Univ.  Lex.  viii,  442. 

Hoffmann,  Heinrich,  a German  preacher  of  the 
17th  century  atMasko,  in  Finland,  was  associated  with 
other  divines  in  translating  the  Bible  into  the  Finnish 
language,  published  at  Stockholm  (1G42,  foL  and  1G58). 
— Pierer,  Univ.  Lex.  viii,  447. 

Hoffmann,  Immanuel,  born  at  Tubingen  April 
1G,  1710,  was  appointed  archdeacon  of  Tubingen  in  1741, 
and  in  1756  professor  of  Greek  in  the  university  of  the 
same  place.  He  died  in  1772.  Hoffmann  published  a 
number  of  dissertations;  of  these,  the  following  arc  con- 
sidered the  best : Diss.  in  Oracuhtm  Rom.  x,  5-8  (Tub. 
1752, 4to) ; — Diss.  de  stilo  Apostoli  Pauli  (1757) : — Diss. 
in  loca  parallela,  2 Pet.  ii,  4-17 ; Jude  5-13  (17G2,  4 to)  : 
— Commentatio  in  1 Cor.  i,  19-21  (17GG,  4to).  He  wrote 
also,  but  left  unpublished,  Demonstratio  Evangelica  per 
ipsum  script ura rum  consen-sttm  in  oraculis  ex  Yetere  Tes- 
tamento  in  Xovo  allegatis  deelurata,  partes  iii  (Tubingen, 
1773-82, 4to).  T.  G.  Hegelmaier,  who  edited  this  work 
after  the  decease  of  the  author,  prefixed  to  it  a life  of 
Hoffmann,  and  an  excursus  on  the  right  method  of  in- 
terpreting the  quotations  made  from  the  0.  T.  in  the 
New.  Orrae  speaks  of  this  work  as  “ full  of  learning, 
and  in  general  verv  judicious.” — Kitto,  Bib.  Cyclop,  ii, 
318. 

Hoffmann,  Johann,  a distinguished  German  the- 
ologian, was  born  at  Schweidnitz.  The  date  of  his  birth 
is  not  known.  He  was  for  a time  professor  of  theology 
at  the  University  of  Prague.  In  1409  he  and  Otto  of 
Miinsterbcrg  went  to  Leipzig,  and  induced  many  stu- 
dents to  accompany  them.  They  thus  contributed  to 
the  founding  of  the  Leipzig  University.  At  first  he  was 
one  of  its  professors,  but  in  1414  he  was  made  bishop  of 
Meissen.  He  died  there  in  1451. — Pierer,  Univ. Lex.  viii, 
441. 

Hoffmann  (or  Hofmann),  Melchior,  one  of  the 
most  celebrated  Anabaptist  (q.v.)  prophets,  born  at  Hall, 
in  Suabia,  originally  a furrier,  went  to  Livonia  about 
the  time  of  the  Reformation,  and  became  a Protestant. 
His  enthusiasm  for  the  cause  of  the  Protestants  led  him 
to  preach  at  Wolmar,  On  account  of  the  great  opposition 
which  he  there  encountered,  he  went  to  Dorpat,  where 


the  opposition  against  him  was  no  less  great,  and  he  be* 
came  so  embittered  against  the  Roman  Catholic  priests 
that  he  sought  to  influence  the  people  in  favor  of  de- 
stroying all  paintings  in  churches,  and  all  monasteries. 
This  course  estranged  from  him  even  his  own  friends, 
and  he  left  in  1525  for  Wittenberg  to  considt  with  Lu- 
ther and  Bugenhagcn,  who  encouraged  him  to  return  to 
Dorpat,  admonishing  his  friends,  at  the  same  time,  to 
harmonious  action.  But  his  success  was  no  better  than 
before,  and  he  soon  after  left  for  Rcval.  Later  we  find 
him  at  Stockholm.  In  1527  the  king  of  Denmark  ap- 
pointed him  preacher  at  Kiel,  but  his  determination  to 
explain  the  Bible  apocalyptically,  and  his  deviation 
from  the  Lutheran  doctrine  of  the  sacraments,  made 
Luther  and  his  followers  opponents  of  Hoffmann,  and, 
after  a stay  of  only  two  years,  a conference  to  examine 
his  doctrines  was  appointed.  He  was  condemned  for  her- 
esy, deposed  from  his  position,  and  ordered  to  leave  the 
country.  He  now  went  to  Strasburg,  and  next  to  Emden, 
where  he  allied  himself  with  the  Anabaptists,  and  soon 
became  one  of  their  principal  leaders.  At  the  latter 
place  he  so  infatuated  his  followers  that  they  took  him  for 
the  prophet  Elias,  and  announced  the  Day  of  Judgment 
as  coming  in  153G.  From  Emden  he  returned  to  Stras- 
burg,  but  the  disturbances  which  he  provoked  occasioned 
the  calling  of  a synod  (June,  1533),  which  condemned 
liim.and  caused  his  imprisonment.  He  died  in  prison  in 
1542.  On  the  person  of  Christ.  Hoffmann,  with  many 
other  Anabaptists,  and  like  the  Valcutinians  of  the  ear- 
ly ages,  held  that  our  Lord’s  birth  was  a mere  phantom, 
laying  great  stress  upon  iyevtro  (John  i,  14);  that  the 
Logos  did  not  merely  assume  our  nature,  but  he  became 
flesh — hence  his  blasphemous  expression,  “Maledicta  sit 
caro  Mariai”  (Smith’s  Hagenbacli,  History  of  Doctrines, 
ii,  349;  comp,  also  Tuchsel,  p.  34,35).  On  the  Eucha- 
rist he  differed,  as  ive  have  already  stated,  from  Luther 
in  his  doctrine  of  the  real  (spiritual)  presence,  holding 
that  the  bodily  bread  is  a seal,  sign,  and  token  in  memo- 
ry of  the  body ; the  body,  how  ever,  is  received  in  the 
word  by  an  unwavering  faith  in  our  heart;  the  word  is 
spirit  and  life ; the  word  is  Christ,  and  is  partaken  of  by 
faith.  Thus  he  thought  it  possible,  while  considering 
the  bread  only  as  a symbol,  to  adhere  to  the  symbol  of 
the  real  spiritual  presence  of  Christ.  The  followers  of 
Hoffmann,  who  took  the  name  of  their  leader,  flourished 
for  a short  time  after  his  death  near  Strasburg  and  Lower 
Germany,  but  finally  joined  the  other  Anabaptist  sects, 
from  which  Hoffmann,  while  alive,  had  kept  distinct. 
Fuhrmann  ( lldwbrterb . d.  chrisil.  Religions-  v.  Kirchen- 
gesch.  ii,  325)  says  that  a number  of  this  sect  went  to 
England  in  1535,  and  that  there  also  they  suffered  great- 
ly from  persecutions;  twenty-two  of  them  were  even  im- 
prisoned. Under  Edward  VI.  (1548)  they  fared  some- 
what better,  but  after  Mary’s  accession  to  the  throne 
they  were  obliged  to  flee  the  country.  Under  the  reign 
of  Elizabeth  they  again  ventured  to  reside  in  England, 
but  in  15G0  they  were  finally  banished  the  country.  A 
full  account  of  Hoffmann  ami  his  sects  is  given  by  Krolin, 
Gesch.  d.fanat.  it.  enthiis.  I Viedertaufer  in  Xiederdeutsch- 
lanel  (Lpz.  1758,  8vo,  containing,  also,  a complete  list 
of  the  writings  of  Hoffmann,  which  were  mainly  apoc- 
alyptical); Herrmann,  Sur  la  vie  et  les  ecrits  de  M.  //. 
(Strasburg,  1858).  See  also  Schrockh , K irchengesch.  s.  d. 
Reformat,  iv.  442  sq. ; Cunitz,  in  Herzog’s Real-Encyliop. 
vi,  191  sq. ; Bayle,  Hist  or.  Diet,  ii,  480;  Niedner,  Lehrb. 
d.  Kirchengesch.  p.  G4  ; Moller,  Cimbria  lifterata,  ii,  347 
sq.;  Rohrich,  in  Zeitschr.f.  kistor.  Theol.  (18(10.  p.  3 sq.) ; 
Gass,  Gesch.  d.  Dogmat.  ii.  73 ; Baumgarten-Crusius,  Dog- 
mengesch.  p.  G28.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hoffmannites.  See  Hoffmann,  Melchior. 

Hoffmeier,  John  IIenrv,  a minister  of  the  German 
Reformed  Church,  born  at  Anhalt- Cobten,  Germany, 
March  17,  1760,  was  educated  at  the  University  of 
Halle.  He  spent  some  time  as  private  tutor  in  Ham- 
burg; then  went  to  Bremen,  where  he  preached  a 
short  time,  aud  finally  emigrated  to  America  in  1793. 


HOFLIXG 


292 


1IOGE 


Here  lie  became  pastor  of  several  German  Reformed  con- 
gregations in  Northampton  County,  Pa.  In  1806  he  was 
called  to  Lancaster,  I’a.,  where  he  continued  to  labor  till 
1831.  He  was  able  to  preach  only  in  German ; and,  the 
English  language  being  needed  in  his  charge,  he  retired 
from  the  active  duties  of  the  ministry.  He  died  March 
18,  1838.  Well  educated  and  diligent  in  his  work,  he 
was  a successful  minister.  Two  of  his  sons  and  three  of 
his  grandsons  also  devoted  themselves  to  the  ministry. 

Hofling,  Johann  Wilhelm  Friedrich,  an  emi- 
nent German  Lutheran  minister,  born  in  Drossenfeld, 
near  Baireuth,  in  1802,  was  educated  at  the  Gymnasium 
of  Baireuth  and  at  the  University  of  Erlangen,  where 
he  was  an  attentive  hearer  of  Schelling,  whose  lectures 
strengthened  his  regard  for  historical  Christianity.  In 
1823  he  was  appointed  minister  at  Wurzburg,  and  in 
1827  at  Jost,  near  Nuremberg.  During  his  residence 
here  he  published  two  little  pamphlets  in  defence  of 
positive  Christianity  against  Rationalism,  which  was 
then  making  rapid  progress.  These,  it  is  thought, 
procured  him  the  appointment  as  professor  of  practical 
theology  at  the  University  of  Erlavigen  (1833).  He 
died  April  5,  1853.  Hofling  was  a firm  adherent  to  the 
old  Protestant  idea  of  the  ministry  and  of  the  Church, 
and  defended  them  vigorously  with  all  the  means  of 
modern  science.  His  theological  writings  were  mainly 
in  the  department  of  practical  theology,  especially  on  the 
constitution  of  the  Church,  worship,  and  related  dogmas. 
Of  his  earlier  works  the  best  are  De  symbolorum  natu- 
ra , necessitate , auctoritate  et  usn  (Erlangen,  1835;  2d 
cd.  1841) : — Liturgische  Abhanril.  v.  d.  Composition  der 
christl.  Gemeinde  Gottesdienste  (ib.  1837).  But  his  most 
important  work  is  undoubtedly  that  on  baptism : Das 
Sakrament  d.  Taitfe , etc.,  dogmatisch , ldstorisch , nnd  lit- 
nrgisch  dargestellt  (vol.  i,  1846;  vol.  ii,  1848).  But  his 
Grnndsatze  evangel.-luther.  Kirchenverfassung  (1850;  3d 
edition,  1852)  attracted  more  general  attention  than  any 
other  work  of  his.  Since  his  decease  Thomasius  and 
Ilarnaek  have  edited  and  published  his  Liturgisch.es  Ur- 
kundenbuch  (1854),  containing  the  rites  of  communion, 
ordination,  introduction  into  the  Church,  and  marriage. 
This  book  is  only  a fragment  of  a larger  work,  on  which 
he  had  been  engaged  the  last  years  of  his  life.  See  Zum 
Gedachtnisz  J.  IV.  F.  Ho  fling's,  etc.,  by  Dr.  Niigelsbach 
and  Dr.  Thomasius ; Kurtz,  Text-book  of  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  317, 
373 ; Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  170, 171.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hofmann,  Johann  Georg,  a German  theologi- 
an, born  atWindsheim  October,  1724,  was  edneated  at 
Erlangen  and  Leipzig.  In  1757  he  began  philosophical 
lectures  at  Leipzig,  and  in  1762  was  honored  with  a pro- 
fessorship. In  1764  he  went  to  Giessen  as  professor  of 
Oriental  languages,  and  in  1765  was  made  D.D.  In 
1769  he  was  called  to  Altorf  as  professor  of  theology, 
and  here  he  became  also  archdeacon.  lie  died  May  10, 
1772.  His  principal  works  are  Die  Erbaming  n.  ihrem 
waliren  Begrijfe  ihren  Mitteln  und  Ilimlerniszen  (Frankf. 
1756,  8vo):  — Grammatica  Hebriea  Danziana  methodo 
(Gieszen,  1765, 8vo)  : — Lock's paraphrast.  Erklarung  der 
Briefe  an  d.  Galuter,  Korinther , Bonier,  und  Epheser , 
aus  d.  Engl,  iibers.  (Frankf.  1768-69,  2 vols.  4to),  besides 
several  essays. — Adelung’s  Joclier,  Gelehrt.-Lexik.  Add. 
ii,  2079. 

Hofmann,  Karl  Gottlob,  D.D.,  a distinguished 
German  theologian,  born  at  Scliueeherg  Oct.  1, 1703,  was 
educated  at  the  University  of  Leipzig,  and  lectured 
there  for  several  years  on  philosophy  and  philology. 
Later  he  became  a preacher  at  St.  Paul’s  and  St.  Thom- 
as’s churches,  and  later  still  he  was  called  to  the  St. 
Nicolas  Church.  In  1739  he  was  called  to  the  Univer- 
sity of  Wittenberg  as  professor  of  theology.  Here  he 
became  the  senior  of  the  theological  faculty,  and  one  of 
the  brightest  lights  of  the  day.  lie  died  Sept.  19, 1774. 
He  published  many  valuable  works,  of  which  Adelung’s 
Joclier  gives  a complete  list.  We  have  space  only  to 
mention  his  Introductio  Theolog.-Crit.  in  Lectionem  epist. 
Puuli  ad  Galat.  et  Coloss.  (Lips.  1750, 4to),  and  a series  of 


minor  works,  under  the  title  Varia  Sacra  (Wittenb.  et 
Lips.  1751).  He  also  edited  and  enlarged  the  Introduc- 
tio in  Lectionem  X.  T.  of  J.  G.  Pritius  (Leipsic,  1737) 

Jdcher,  Geiehrt.  Lexik.  (Addenda  by  Adelung,  ii,  2049); 
Kitto,  Biblical  Cyclop,  ii,  318. 

Hofmeister,  Sebastian.  See  Wagner. 

Hofstede  de  Groot,  Peter,  a distinguished 
Dutch  theologian,  was  born  at  Rotterdam  in  1720,  and 
educated  at  Groningen.  Soon  after  the  completion  of 
his  university  course  he  was  called  to  Rotterdam  as  pro- 
fessor of  theology.  Here  he  became  a leader  of  a theo- 
logical school  of  “mediation,”  known  as  the  Groningen 
School,  founded  by  the  Platonist  Van  Ileusde  (1778- 
1839),  who  was  also  a professor  in  the  Rotterdam  Uni- 
versity at  that  time.  Hofstede,  assisted  by  Pareau, 
published  a dogmatic  theology,  containing  a complete 
exposition  of  the  doctrines  of  this  school,  which  are 
nothing  more  or  less  than  a spiritual  Arianism.  They 
held  that  there  is  in  human  nature  a divine  element 
which  needs  development  in  order  to  enable  humanity 
to  reach  its  destination.  This  destination  is  conformity 
to  God.  All  religions  have  aimed  and  worked  at  the 
same  problem,  but  Christianity  has  solved  it  in  the 
highest  and  purest  manner.  , Still  there  is  only  a differ- 
ence in  degree  between  that  and  other  religions.  God 
has  fulfilled  the  desire  of  man,  whom  he  had  prepared 
for  salvation  by  sending  perfection  embodied  in  Christ. 
To  know  Christ  wTe  need  the  exegetical  study  of  that 
preparation  of  man  for  Christ  which  is  furnished  by 
the  Old  Testament.  The  New  Testament  is  the  ful- 
filment. The  latter  contains  the  sayings  of  Jesns  and 
the  conclusions  of  the  apostles.  The  writers  of  the 
Scriptures  -were  not  infallible,  though  they  did  not  often 
err.  Sin  is  regarded  as  a mere  inconvenience,  since 
all  sinners  trill  eventually  be  holy  and  happy.  In  stating 
the  influences  of  the  Groningen  school  in  Dutch  theol- 
ogy, Hurst  {Rationalism,  p.  366, 367)  says  that  it  is  sim- 
ilar to  the  position  occupied  by  Channing  with  regard 
to  the  orthodoxy  of  the  American  Church.  Hofstede 
was  a violent  opponent  of  the  Lutheran  Church ; and 
when,  in  1779,  a Lutheran  church  was  about  to  be  estab- 
lished at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  he  protested  loudly, 
and  wrote  Oost-indiansche  Kerkzaaken,  or  Ecclesiastic- 
al Affairs  of  India  (Hague,  1779-1780,  2 vols.  8vo). 
Against  Marmontel’s  celebrated  novel  Belisciire  he  also 
wrote  a work  exposing  the  vices  of  distinguished  hea- 
thens, and  showing  their  utter  unfitness  for  a claim  to 
salvation,  to  which  Marmontel  believed  those  entitled 
■who  had  lived  before  Christ’s  coming.  He  died  Nov.  27, 
1803.  Sec  Schrockb, Kircheng.  viii,  735;  Hurst, Hist,  of 
Rationalism,  p.  364-367 ; Farrar,  Hist,  of  Free  Thought,  p. 
445  sq. ; Iloefcr,  None.  Bioy.  Gen.  xxiv,  903  sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Hog.  See  Boar;  Swine. 

Hoge,  James,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minister,  was 
born  at  Moorfield,  Virginia,  in  1784.  He  was  educated 
chiefly  by  his  father,  though  he  spent  one  year  at  an 
academy  in  Baltimore,  lie  was  licensed  to  preach  April 
17, 1805,  was  ordained  in  1809,  and  was  appointed  mis- 
sionary to  the  State  of  Ohio  by  the  General  Assembly. 
Within  a year  he  organized  a church  at  Franklinton, 
and  in  1807  became  minister  of  the  First  Church  at  Co- 
lumbus, Ohio.  Here  he  remained  until  1858,  when  his 
age  and  infirmities  induced  him  to  resign.  Dr.  Hoge 
was  the  “ father  of  the  Presbytery  of  Columbus,  and  even 
of  the  Synod  of  Ohio.”  Not  merely  in  his  own  parish, 
but  in  the  Church  courts  and  in  the  General  Assembly, 
he  was  a man  of  great  power  and  influence.  The  insti- 
tutions for  the  deaf,  dumb,  and  blind  in  Ohio  were  largely 
due  to  his  exertions.  Though  born  in  a slave  state,  he 
was  opposed  to  slavery,  and  was  thoroughly  loyal  to  the 
nation.  He  died  at  Columbus  Sept.  22, 1863.  A memo- 
rial sermon,  preached  by  the  Rev.  William  C.  Roberts 
Oct.  4, 1863  (Columbus,  Ohio,  1863), -was  reviewed  in  the 
Amer.  Presb.  Rev.  Jan.  1864,  p.  89  sq. — Wilson,  Presb. 
Historical  Almanac,  1863,  p.  232 ; 1864,  p.  168. 

Hoge,  Moses,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minister,  was 


HOGE 


293 


IIOIIENLOIIE 


bom  Feb.  15, 1 752,  in  Frederick  Count}',  Ya.  For  a time 
he  attended  a classical  school  in  Culpepper  County.  In 
1778  he  went  to  Liberty  Hall  Academy,  and  there  com- 
pleted his  studies  in  17*80.  In  November,  1781,  he  was 
licensed  to  preach,  and  was  ordained  pastor  of  a church 
at  Hardy  Dec.  13, 1782.  In  1787,  the  Southern  climate 
proving  injurious  to  his  health,  he  removed  to  Slicp- 
herdstown,  where  he  gathered  a large  congregation  and 
acquired  great  popularity.  In  1805  he  opened  a classic- 
al school,  mainly  for  the  education  of  bis  own  sons.  He 
maintained  this,  however,  only  a short  time,  when  he  was 
called  to  the  presidency  of  Hampden  Sidney  College,  as 
successor  of  Dr.  Alexander.  Five  years  later,  while  at 
the  head  of  the  college,  the  degree  of  D.D.  was  conferred 
on  him  by  Princeton  College.  In  1812  the  Synod  of 
Virginia  established  a theological  seminary,  and  Dr. 
Iloge  was  called  to  it  as  a professor.  1 le.  accepted  this 
position,  retaining,  however,  the  presidency  of  Hampden 
Sidney  College.  He  died  Sept.  5,  1820.  He  enjoyed 
the  reputation  of  being  a superior  preacher.  ‘“John 
Randolph  pronounced  him  the  most  eloquent  man  he 

had  ever  heard Yet  Dr.  Iloge  had  some  great 

disadvantages.  His  voice  had  considerable  unpleas- 
antness, arising  from  a nasal  twang;  so  that  he  must 
be  regarded  as  a very  remarkable  man  to  win  such 
commendation  from  his  gifted  countryman.”  He  wrote, 
in  1793,  in  defence  of  the  Calvinistic  doctrine,  a reply 
to  the  Rev.  Jeremiah  "Walker,  a Baptist  minister  who 
had  suddenly  passetl  from  ultra  Calvinism  to  the  en- 
tire rejection  of  the  Calvinistic  doctrines,  lie  also 
published  The  Christian  Panoply  (1799),  designed  as  an 
antidote  to  Paine’s  Age  of  Reason.  It  consists  of  two 


against  Gibeon,but  was  overthrown  in  battle  by  Joshua 
ami  slain  after  being  captured  in  the  cave  at  Makkedali 
(Josh,  x,  3).  B.C.  1018. 

Hohburg.  Sec  Hour  no. 

Hohenburg  or  Odilienberg,  an  old,  celebrated 
monastery  on  the  Rhine,  is  said  to  have  been  founded 
by  duke  Ethicot,  whose  daughter  Odilia  was  the  tirst 
abbess.  She  is  supposed  to  have  died  in  720.  This 
monastery  was  celebrated  for  many  years  for  the  great 
learning  of  its  inmates  and  the  encouragement  which  it 
gave  to  all  who  devoted  themselves  to  literary  labors. 
About  1429,  this,  as  well  as  the  monastery  at  the  foot 
of  the  hill,  said  to  have  been  founded  by  Odilia,  in  or- 
der to  save  weary  travellers  the  task  of  ascending  the 
mount,  was  closed.  One  of  the  works  published  bv  an 
abbess  of  this  monastery  (llerrad,  1 1G7),  Ilortus  delicia- 
rum , in  Latin,  contains  contributions  to  Biblical  history 
and  to  the  entire  field  of  theology.  See  Albrieht,  His- 
tory von  Hohenb.  (Seldetstadt,  1751,  4to);  Silbcrmann, 
Beschreib.  v.  Hohenb.  (Strasb.  1781  and  1835) ; Rett  berg, 
Kirchen-Gesch.  Deutschf.  ii,  75-79 ; Mabillon,  A tin.  i.  488 
sq.,  599  ; ii,  58  ; Wetzer  u.  Welte,  Kirclien-Lex.  v,  277. 
(J.  H.  W.) 

Hohenlohe,  Alexander  Leopold  Franz  Em- 

Erich,  prince  of  a Hungarian  Roman  Catholic  bishop, 
was  born  near  Waldenburg  Aug.  17, 1794.  His  mother, 
baroness  Judith  de  Reviczky,  destined  him  for  the  cler- 
ical life,  and  after  studying  at  the  Academy  of  Berne, 
and  the  seminaries  of  Vienna,  Tyrnau,  and  Elwangen, 
he  was  ordained  priest  in  181G.  In  the  same  year  he 
made  a journey  to  Rome,  where  he  associated  much  with 


parts,  the  first  containing  the  substance  of  Watson's  reply  Jesuits,  and  finally  joined  their  Society  of  the  Sacred 
to  Paine’s  first  part,  and  the  second  Hoge’s  answer  to  the  Heart  of  Jesus.  In  1819  he  returned  to  Germany,  anil- 
second  part  of  Paine’s  work.  It  had  a wide  circulation,  ! settled  in  Bavaria,  where  his  birth  and  fortune  soon  pro- 
and  exerted  a very  important  influence.  A volume  of  his  cured  for  him  a high  position.  Ilis  reputation  is  chief- 
sermons  was  published  shortly  after  his  death,  but  their  lv  due  to  his  pretended  power  to  cure  diseases  in  a mi- 
circulation  has  been  very  limited,  and  they  hardly  do  raculous  way.  He  is  said  to  have  made  cures  in  the 
justice  to  his  character  as  a preacher.  A memoir  of  Dr.  j hospitals  of  Wurzburg  and  Bamberg.  But  the  authori- 
Hoge  was  partly  prepared  by  his  sons,  but  seems  to  have  ties  at  last  interfered,  and  even  the  pope  himself  advised 
been  lost,  as  it  has  never  gone  into  print. — Amer.  Presb.  ] Hohenlohe  to  abstain  from  these  pretensions,  and  the 
Rev.  Jan.  1864,  p.  93  sq. ; Sprague,  Annals  of  the  Amer.  > prince  finally  left  Bavaria  for  Vienna.  He  next  went  to 


Pulpit , iii,  42G  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 


j Hungary,  and  was  made  bishop  in  partibvs  of  Sardica 


Hoge,  Samuel  D„  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minister, ! >"  ,1B«.  !"d com-ent  of  ht  Michael  olC.a- 
son  of  Dr.  Moses  Hoge, was  born  in  Shop!, cr, blown,  Ya.,  I , I,,mnS  <hJ  Kevotation  of  1M8  lie  was  driven 

in  1791.  His  early  instruction  lie  received  from  bis  fa-  , fr™“  Hungary,  and  lie  wont  to  Innspruck  where  the 
thor.  after  whose  assumption  of  the  presidency  ofllamp-  cn'^rOT  of  Alf™  l1'™  rf,ded'  *"  °.ct-  1849  ■ ,he 
den  Sidney  College  he  became  a student  in  that  college,  >°  ' f'lla  *°  vlslt  hls  1'Hew,  coiint  Fries,  who  had  just 
and  graduated  in  1810.  He  also  pursued  l.is  theological  I d^'d'd  «°  a Pnps*-.  * ® ‘ llls  !‘°“f  • N°V- 

course  under  his  father,  filling  at  the  same  time  the  ap-  1 1 > 1849-  Tl,c  r™°"’n  1 Mienlolic  gained  by  ns 

pointment  of  tutor  at  his  alma  mater.  Later  he  became  «'ras  ",fls  V04  «ml™td  *°  >>ls  °"'n  <-om.tr>-  but  extended 
1 . . • , . , . • to  Emrland.  Ireland,  and  even  to  our  eountrv.  where  the 


professor,  and  at  one  time  he  acted  even  as  vice-presi- 
dent. In  1816  he  entered  the  active  work  of  the  min- 
istry, serving  the  two  churches  of  Culpepper  anil  Mad- 
ison, Virginia,  at  the  same  time.  In  1821  he  removed 
to  Hillsborough,  Ohio,  serving  also  a church  at  Rocky 
Spring  at  the  same  time.  Three  years  later  he  was 
elected  professor  of  mathematics  and  natural  philosophy 
in  the  Ohio  University  at  Athens.  The  college  being 
at  this  time  without  a president,  Dr.  Hoge  performed  the 
duties  of  that  office,  and  greatly  increased  the  prosperity 
of  the  institution.  At  the  same  time,  lie  preached  in  the 
college  chapel  and  in  the  church  of  the  town  whenever 
his  time  and  health  would  permit.  He  died  in  December, 
182G. — Sprague,  A nn.  of  Am.  Pulpit,  iv,  483. 


to  England,  Ireland,  and  even  to  our  country,  where  the 
case  of  Mrs.  Ann  Mattingly,  of  Washington,  D.  C.,  who 
was  said  to  have  miraculously  recovered  of  a tumor, 
March  10,  1824,  in  consequence  of  his  prayers,  caused 
considerable  excitement.  The  prince  ceased  these  prac- 
tices man}r  years  before  his  death,  at  least  publicly.  Va- 
rious theories  have  been  propounded  to  account  for  the 
cures  attributed  to  him  : the  most  rational  is  that  which 
assigns  them  to  the  power  of  the  imagination  over  so- 
calleil  nervous  disorders.  Ilis  principal  works  are  Per 
im  Geiste  der  kathol.  Kirch e betende  Christ  (Bamberg, 
1819 ; 3d  edit.  Lpz.  1824)  : — Iks  katholischen  Priesters 
BerufWiirde  u.Pfticht  (Bamb.  1821): — Was  ist  d. Zeit- 
geist (Bamberg,  1821),  an  attempt  to  show  that  none  but 
a good  Roman  Catholic  can  be  a good  and  loyal  citizen, 


. a ^vuu  iiuuiau  ^auiuiiL  vau  wv  m 

Hog'Iah  (Ueb.Choglah',  raH,  from  Arab,  tor  part-  a(t(iresse(i  to  Francis  of  Austria  and  Alexander  of  Rus- 
ridge;  Sept.  ’EyXJ  v.  r.  AiyXct,  etc.),  the  third  of  the  sia : — Die  Wanderschaft.  einer  Gott  suchenden  Seele,  etc. 
five  daughters  of  Zelopheliad  the  Gileadite,  to  whom,  in  (Vienna,  1830)  :■ — Licit tbli eke  and Ergebnisse  aits  d.  Welt  u. 
the  absence  of  male  heirs,  portions  were  assigned  by  dem  Pviesterleben  (Ratisbon,  1836);  a number  of  sermons, 


Moses  (Numb,  xxvi,  33  ; xxvii,  1 ; xxxvi,  11 ; Josb.  etc.  His  posthumous  works  were  published  by  Brunner 

(Ratisbon,  1851).  See  Paulas,  Wnndercuren  z.  Wiiiizb. 
it.  Bamb.  unternommen  (lurch.  J f.  Mickel  u.  d.  Pr.  v.  Ho - 
1 kenlohe  (Lpz.  1822);  Gieseler,  Kirchengeschichte  d.  neuest. 


xvii,3).  B.C.  1619.  See  also  Beth-Hoglah. 

Hogstraaten.  See  Hoogstraaten. 

Ho'ham  (Heb.  JJoham ',  CPPi“I,  prob.  for  ErrPT,  Zeit,  p.  321 ; Real-Ena/klop.f  d.  Kathol.  Ikutschl.  v,  434 


whom  Jehovah  impels  or  confounds ; Sept.  A i\ap,  Vul- 
gate Oham),  the  king  of  Hebron,  who  joined  the  league  cyklop. 


5 (gives  a full  account  of  his  works)  ; Herzog .Real-En- 
ykiop , xix,  653  sq. ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  B iog . G in.  xxiv,  914,. 


HOLCOMBE 


IIOIIEXSTAUFEX  2! 

Kolienstaufen.  See  Guelphs  and  Giiibel- 
lines. 

Hohnbatim,  Joiiann  Christian,  a distinguished 
German  preacher,  born  at  Kodaeh,  near  Hildburghausen, 
was  educated  at  the  University  of  Gottingen,  under  Mi- 
chaelis,  Walch,  Hevne,  and  others.  For  a time  he  was 
private  tutor  and  preacher.  In  1777  he  was  appointed 
court  preacher  at  Coburg,  and,  nine  years  later,  minister 
and  superintendent  of  his  native  city.  He  died  Nov. 
13, 1825.  Hohnbaum  was  an  assistant  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  the  Hildburger  Gesangbuch  (hymn-book),  and 
contributed  also  largely  to  different  theological  period- 
icals. His  theological  works  are  Veber  d.  heilige  Abend- 
rnahl  (Gobi.  1781,  8vo) : — Predigten  iiber  Gesch.  d.  A.  T. 
(ibid.  1788-89,  2 vols.  8vo)  : — Gesange  und  Predigten  (ib. 
1800,  8vo). — During,  Deutschl.  Kanzelredner,  p.  1-13  sq. 
(J.  H.W.) 

Holbach,  Paul  Henry  Tiiiry,  baron  of,  an  infidel 
of  the  18th  century,  was  born  at  Heidelsheim,  in  the 
palatinate  (now  grand-duchy)  of  Baden,  in  1723.  He 
went  to  Paris  at  an  early  age  with  his  father,  who  at 
his  death  left  him  heir  to  a large  fortune.  Ilolbach’s 
house  became  then  the  head-quarters  of  all  the  free- 
thinkers and  writers  of  his  day.  At  the  dinners  which 
he  gave  twice  a week,  either  in  Paris  or  at  his  castle  of 
Grandval,  and  which  gained  him  the  title  o ifrst.  maitre 
d'hotel  of  philosophy,  met  the  abbot  Galiani,  Helvetius, 
D’Alembert,  Diderot,  Raynal,  Grimm,  Buffon,  Rousseau, 
Marmontel,  Duclos,  Laharpe,  Oondorcet,  etc.  It  was  in 
these  reunions  that  they  exchanged  their  ideas,  and  pre- 
pared, at  least  in  their  minds,  many  of  the  articles 
which  appeared  in  the  first  Encyclopedic,  (Diderot’s), 
besides  many  anonymous  publications  which  were  also 
sent  forth,  consisting  either  of  original  articles  or  of 
translations  from  the  German  or  English.  They  car- 
ried their  speculation,  it  is  said,  to  such  daring  lengths 
that  Buffon,  D’Alembert,  and  Rousseau  felt  compelled 
to  withdraw  from  the  circle.  Holbach  himself  was  one 
of  the  most  zealous  of  these  champions  of  naturalism, 
and  contended  not  only  against  Christianity,  but  against 
every  positive  religion.  He  is  said,  according  to  Bar- 
bier,  to  have  published  no  less  than  forty-seven  anony- 
mous writings  of  his  own  composition.  His  first  philo- 
sophical work  he  published  in  1707  under  the  name  of 
Boidanger:  it  is  entitled  Le  Christianisme  devoile,  oil 
examen  des  principes  et  des  ejfets  de  la  religion  revelee 
(Amst.).  In  this  work  he  says  explicitly  that  religion 
is  in  no  way  necessary  for  the  welfare  of  empires;  that 
the  dogmas  of  Christianity  are  but  a heap  of  absurdities, 
the  propagation  of  which  has  exercised  the  most  fatal 
influence  on  mankind ; that  its  morality  is  nowise  supe- 
rior to  the  morality  of  other  systems,  and  is  only  fit  for 
enthusiasts  incapable  of  fulfilling  the  duties  imposed  by 
society;  finally,  that  through  the  eighteen  centuries  of 
its  existence  Christianity  had  led  to  the  most  deplora- 
ble results  in  politics.  Soon  after  this  work,  which  his 
infidel  associates  themselves  declared  the  most  terrible 
that  had  ever  appeared  in  any  part  of  the  world,  he  pub- 
lished Id  Esprit  du  Clerge,  on  le  Christianisme  primitif 
venge  des  ent  reprises  et  des  exe'es  de  nos  p ret  res  modernes 
(Lond.  17G7),  and  De  V Imposture  sacerdotale,  ou  recueil 
de  pieces  snr  le  clerge  (Amst.  17G7).  In  the  same  year 
Holbach  published  his  most  important  work,  Syst'eme  de 
la  Nature  (Lond.  1770),  under  the  signature  of  “Mira- 
band,  secretaire  perpetual  de  1’Academie  Fran<;aise.”  It 
is  not  definitely  known  whether  he  wrote  the  book  alone, 
or  was  assisted  by  La  Grange,  Grimm,  and  others,  but  it 
is  generally  conceded  to  have  been  sent  forth  by  IIol- 
bach,  and  that  he  defrayed  the  expenses  of  publication. 
So  radical  was  this  work  that  even  Voltaire  attacked  it 
in  the  article  “God”  of  his  “Philosophical  Dictionary,” 
Yet  in  1772  Holbach  published  a popular  edition  of  that 
work  under  the  title  Le  bon  Hens,  ou  idles  nutn relies  op- 
posees  aux  ulees  surnaturelles  (Amst.;  often  reprinted 
under  the  name  of  the  abbot  Meslier).  The  wretched 
book  was  largely  read  by  the  common  people,  and  con- 


tributed perhaps  more  than  all  the  other  philosophical 
works  of  the  18th  century,  taken  together,  to  the  sub- 
version of  morals  and  the  spread  of  infidelity.  It  teaches 
the  most  naked  and  atheistical  materialism,  and  even 
Voltaire  abused  it  as  immoral.  In  it  Holbach  discusses 
the  maxims  of  religious  morality,  takes  a hurried  glance 
at  social  and  savage  life,  touches  the  so-called  “ social 
compact,”  and  in  the  course  of  his  observations  endeav- 
ors to  teach,  among  other  things,  that  self-interest  is  the 
ruling  motive  of  man,  and  that  God  is  only  an  ideal  be- 
ing, created  by  kings  and  priests.  His  Syst'eme  Social, 
ou  les  principes  naturels  de  la  morale  et  de  la  politique 
(Amsterd.  1773),  aims,  as  its  title  indicates,  to  establish 
the  basis  and  rides  of  a moral  and  political  system  alto- 
gether independent  of  any  religious  system.  This  work 
was  as  ill  received  by  the  philosophers  as  bv  the  relig- 
ious party,  and  the  Paris  Parliament  (in  1773)  condemn- 
ed this  and  all  other  preceding  works  of  Holbach  to  be 
publicly  burned  by  the  hangman.  They  were  all  secret- 
ly sent  to  Holland  in  IMS.,  and  printed  there  by  Michael 
Key,  who  circulated  them  in  France,  so  that  even  the 
friends  and  guests  of  Holbach  did  not  know  him  as  their 
author,  and  often  criticised  his  works  severely  while 
partaking  of  his  hospitality.  He  was  also  one  of  the 
contributors  to  the  celebrated  Encyclopedia  (q.  v.)  of 
Diderot.  Holbach’s  biographers  claim  that  he  was  a 
man  of  good  heart,  and  that,  notwithstanding  the  per- 
nicious theories  of  materialism  which  he  sought  to  in- 
culcate, especially  among  the  French  people,  his  life  was 
better  than  his  books.  They  claim  especially  that  he 
was  a man  of  most  unselfish  benevolence,  and  that  he 
made  his  house  even  an  asylum  for  his  foes.  Thus  he 
protected  and  gave  a refuge  to  the  Jesuits  in  the  days 
of  their  adversity  under  Louis  XV,  though  he  hated 
their  system,  and  had  written  against  them.  He  died 
at  Paris  January  21,  1789.  See  Voltaire,  Dictionnaire 
Philosoph.;  Diderot,  Memoires;  Dam  iron,  Etudes  sur 
la  philosophic  d' Holbach  (in  Mem.de  i Academic,  d.  Sci- 
ences moi'ales  et  politiques) ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gene- 
rale,  xxiv,  925  sq. ; Biog.  Vnir.  xx,  4G0  sq. ; Schlosser, 
Gesch.  d.  18  und  19  Jahrhund.  i,  580  sq. ; ii,  534;  Buhle, 
Gesch.  der  neueren  Philos,  vi,  Abtheil  i,  p.  94  sq. ; Hurst’s 
Hagenbach,  Church  History  of  the  IStk  and  19th  Cent,  i, 
211  sq. ; Farrar,  Hist,  of  Free  Thought,  p.  181  sq. ; Vinet. 
French  Lit.  p.  352  sq. ; Hagenbach,  Hist,  of  nationalism, 
p.50;  Morell,  History  of  Philos,  p.l  11  sq.;  Herzog,  Jleal- 
EncyHop.  vi,  220  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Holberg,  Ludwtg  von,  a Danish  divine,  was  bom 
Nov.  G,  1684,  at  Bergen,  in  Norway.  He  studied  theolo- 
gy at  Copenhagen  University,  and  became  a professor  in 
that  school.  In  1735  he  was  elected  rector  of  the  Uni- 
versity, and  in  1737  treasurer.  In  1747  the  king  cre- 
ated Holberg  a baron  on  account  of  his  literary  services. 
He  died  Jan.  27,  1754.  He  is  known  as  the  creator  of 
modern  Danish  literature,  and  deserves  our  notice  on  ac- 
count of  his  Kirchengeschichte  (1738-40,  2 vols.),  and  Jii- 
dische  Gesch.  (1742,  2 vols.).  Both  these  works  are  con- 
sidered quite  valuable  even  at  the  present  time.— Brock- 
haus,  Com\  Lex.  viii,  48  sq.;  Gorton,  Biograpli.  Diet.  ii. 
(J.H.AV.) 

Holcombe,  Henry,  D.D.,  a Baptist  minister,  was 
born  in  Prince  Edward  County, Ya.,  Sept.  22, 1762.  Ilis 
earl}'-  education  was  limited.  While  yet  a boy,  be  en- 
tered the  Revolutionary  army.  In  his  twenty-second 
year  he  was  licensed  to  preach  by  the  Baptists ; and  in 
Sept.  1785,  was  ordained  pastor  of  the  church  at  Pike 
Creek,  S.  C.  Some  time  after,  lie  was  appointed  delegate 
to  the  Convention  of  South  Carolina,  held  at  Charleston, 
to  ratify  the  Constitution  of  the.  United  States.  In  1791 
he  became  pastor  of  the  Baptist  Church  at  Euhaw, 
preaching  also  at  May  River  and  St.  Helena ; but,  the 
climate  not  agreeing  with  him,  he  removed  to  Beaufort. 
In  1799  he  accepted  a call  to  Savannah.  Here  he  la- 
bored with  great  success,  and  was  chiefly  instrumental 
in  organizing  the  Savannah  Female  Asylum  (in  1801), 
at  the  same  time  conducting  a Magazine,  The  Georgia 


IIOLCOMBE 


295 


IIOLDIIEIM 


Analytical  Repository,  lie  also  took  part  in  establish- 
ing Mount  Enon  Academy  in  1804,  ami  a Missionary 
Society  in  1806.  In  1810  he  was  made  D.D.  by  Brown 
University,  and  in  1812  became  pastor  of  the  First  Bap- 
tist Church  in  Philadelphia,  where  he  labored  with  great 
acceptance  until  his  death,  May  22, 1824.  He  published 
a number  of  occasional  sermons,  addresses,  etc. — Sprague, 
Annals,  vi,  215. 

Holcombe,  Hosea,  a Baptist  minister,  was  born 
in  Union  District,  S.C.,  July  20, 1780.  lie  was  engaged 
in  agricultural  pursuits  until  1800,  when  he  turned  his 
attention  to  theology,  and  was  licensed  the  following 
year,  lie  labored  in  his  native  region  until  1812,  when 
lie  went  to  North  Carolina,  and  finally  settled  in  Jeffer- 
son Co.,  Ala.,  in  the  fall  of  1818.  llis  ministrations  in 
all  these  places  were  eminently  successful,  and  he  contin- 
ued his  labors  until  his  death,  July  81, 1841.  Mr.  Hol- 
combe published  a Collection  of  Sacred  Ilymns  (1815) : — 
a work  on  Baptism,  entitled  A Reply  to  the  Rev.  Finis 
E icing,  o f the  Cumberland  Presbyterian  Society  (1832): — 
A Refutation  of  the  Rev.  Joshua  Lawrence's  Patriotic 
Discourse,  or  Anti-Mission  Principles  exposed  (1836) : — 
The  History  of  the  Alabama  Baptists  (1840). — Sprague, 
Annals,  vi,  442. 

Holcot,  Robert,  an  English  scholastic  of  the  14th 
century,  doctor  of  Oxford  University,  and  a member  of 
the  Dominican  order,  was  one  of  the  most  liberal  inter- 
preters of  sacred  Scripture  in  his  day,  yet  an  obedient 
son  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  and  a zealous  advo- 
cate of  Nominalism  (q.  v.).  He  died  a victim  of  the 
plague  in  1349.  1 lolcot  wrote  mainly  on  the  sacred  Scrip- 
tures, but  not  many  of  his  works  have-  ever  gone  into 
print.  This  may  acconnt  for  the  fact  that  many  books 
whose  authorship  is  doubtful  are  attributed  to  him  by 
the  Dominicans.  Mazonius  (in  Univ.  Platonis  ct  A ristot. 
rhi/osoph.  p.  201)  has  severely  criticised  the  philosoph- 
ical views  of  Holcot.  His  most  important  published 
theological  works  are  Be  Studio  Scriptures  (Venice,  1586, 
and  often) : — In  Proverb.  Salom.  (Paris,  1515,  4to) : — In 
Cuntica  Cantieorum  et  in  septem  Priora  Capita  Ecclesi- 
asticis  (Veil.  1509).  Among  the  works  attributed  to  him 
by  the  Dominicans  we  find  Moralisationes  llistoriarum 
(Paris,  1510,  8vo). — Hocfer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate , xxiv, 
941 ; Jocher,  Gelchrt.  Lex.  ii,  1671.  (j.  II.  W.) 

Hold  [verb]  is  often  used  figuratively,  but  in  obvi- 
ous meanings,  in  the  Bible.  To  take  hold  of  God  and 
his  covenant  is  to  embrace  him  as  given  in  the  Gospel, 
and  by  faith  to  plead  his  promises  and  relations  (Isa. 
lxiv,  7,  and  Ivi,  4).  Christians  hold  forth  the  word  of 
life ; they,  by  practising  it  in  their  lives,  give  light  and 
instruction  to  others  (Phil,  ii,  16).  Not  holding  of  Christ 
the  head  is  neglecting  to  draw  gracious  influence  from 
him,  and  to  yield  due  subjection  to  him;  as,  for  instance 
(Col.ii,  18, 19),  worshipping  angels,  etc.  instead  of  Christ ; 
insisting  on  penances,  etc.  instead  of  on  the  merit  of 
Christ’s  work.— Brown,  Bible  Dictionary , s.  v. 

Hold  [noun]  (CC\Fl'2,metsudah,,&  fortress,  as  often  | 
rendered),  the  term  especially  applied  to  the  lurking- 
places  of  David  (1  Sam.  xxii,  4,  5 ; xxiv,  22,  etc.).  See 
Stkoxgiiold. 

Holda.  See  IIui.da. 

Holden,  Hexiiy,  D.D.,  a distinguished  English  Ro- 
man Catholic  controversialist,  was  born  in  Lancashire 
in  1596.  lie  studied  at  the  Seminary  of  Douai,  and 
afterwards  went  to  Paris,  where  he  took  the  degree  of 
D.D.  lie  became  a priest  in  the  parish  of  St.  Nicholas 
dn  Chardonnet.  Much  of  his  time  was  devoted  to  liter- 
ary labors,  which  placed  him  among  the  most  renowned 
theologians  of  that  period.  He  died  in  1665.  Ilis 
principal  work  is  Analysis  Fidei  (Paris,  1652,  8vo;  2d  j 
ed.  by  Barbon,  1767,  12mo;  translated  into  English  by 
W.  G.,  1658, 4to).  Dupin  commends  this  book  very  high- 
ly. In  1660  he  published  Xovum  Testamentum,  with  | 
marginal  notes,  and  a Letter  to  A mould  on  predestina- 
tion and  grace.  See  Dupin,  Eccles.  Writers,  cent,  xvii ; I 


Allibone,  Dictionary  of  A uthors , i,  863 ; Hocfer,  Xouv. 
Biog.  Gene  rule,  xxiv,  935. 

Holder,  Wii.iielm  (also  known  as  Frater  Williel- 
mus  de  Sint  yard  ia  Ordinis  J/wonm),aWurtemberg  phi- 
losopher and  theologian,  was  born  at  Marbach  in  1542, 
and  educated  at  Tubingen.  He  distinguished  himself 
especially  by  his  great  opposition  to  scholastic  philoso- 
phy and  theology,  against  which  he  wrote  Mus  exen- 
ter at  us  contra  Joannem  IHstorium  (Tub.  1593,  4to) a 
very  rare  and  curious  work  on  the  Mass  and  baptism, 
of  which  extracts  have  been  given  in  the  X.  Gutting.  Ilist. 
Mag.  vol.  ii,  pt.  iv,  p.  716  sq. : — also  Petitorium  exhort  a- 
torium  pro  resolutorio  super  g?-ossis  quibusdam  'dubieta- 
tibus  et  queestionibus,  e;e.  (Tubing.  1594,  4to).  He  died 
July  24, 1609. — Adelung’s  Jocher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1672; 
Krug,  Encyldop.-p h ilos.  Lex.  ii,  450. 

Holdheim,  Samuel,  a distinguished  Jewish  divine 
of  the  Liberalistic  or  so-called  reform  school,  was  horn 
at  Kempen,  province  of  Posen,  Prussia,  in  1806.  Ilis 
early  education  was,  like  that  of  every  other  Jewish 
Rabbi  of  his  time,  confined  to  a thorough  study  of  the 
Scriptures  and  the  Talmud.  In  the  latter  his  profi- 
ciency was  very  great,  and  was  pretty  generally  known 
throughout  his  native  province,  even  while  lie  was  yet 
a young  man.  With  great  perseverance,  he  paved  his 
way  for  a broader  culture  than  the  study  of  the  Talmud 
and  the  instructions  of  the  Rabbins  could  afford  him, 
and  he  went  to  the  universities  of  Prague  and  Berlin. 
Ilis  limited  preparation  made  it,  however,  impossible 
for  him  to  graduate  at  those  high-schools.  In  1836  lie 
was  called  as  Rabbi  to  the  city  of  Frankfort  on  the  Oder. 
Here  he  distinguished  himself  greatly  by  his  endeavors 
to  advance  the  interests  of  his  Jewish  brethren  in  Prus- 
sia, and  to  obtain  liberal  concessions  from  the  govern- 
ment. He  there  published,  besides  a number  of  sermons 
delivered  in  behalf  of  the  cause  just  alluded  to,  Gottes- 
dienstliche  Yortrdge  (Frnkf.  1839, 8vo),  in  which  be  treats 
of  the  Jewish  holy  days,  usages,  etc.  These  s<  rmons 
were  the  subject  of  consideration  by  the  leading  Jewish 
periodicals  for  successive  months.  Thus  the  distin- 
guished Jewish  scholar  J.  A.  Frankel  aimed  to  establish 
on  these  sermons  the  laws  of  Jewish  Homiletics  (comp. 
Literaturblatt  des  Orients,  1840,  No.  35,  39,  47,  49,  50). 
Ilis  scholarly  attainments  were  such  at  this  time  (1840) 
that  the  University  of  Leipzig  honored  him  with  the 
degree  of  “doctor  of  philosophy.”  In  the  same  year 
Holdheim  accepted  a call  as  chief  Rabbi  of  Mecklen- 
burg-Schwerin,  and  was  installed  Sept.  19  (1840).  The 
prominence  which  this  position  gave  him  greatly  in- 
creased his  influence  both  at  home  and  abroad,  and  his 
movements  for  reform  in  the  Jewish  Ritual  (q.  v.)  con- 
tributed perhaps  more  than  the  efforts  of  any  other  per- 
son to  the  reform  movements  at  Berlin  with  which  he 
was  afterwards  so  intimately  associated.  In  1843  he 
published  Ueber  d.  Antonomie  d.  Rabbincn  u.  d.  Princip. 
der  jufl.  Ehe  (Schwerin  and  Berlin,  1843,  8vo).  In  this 
work  he  labored  for  a submission  of  the  Jews  in  matri- 
monial questions  to  the  law  of  the  land  in  which  they 
now  sojourned,  instead  of  adhering  to  their  Talmudic 
laws,  so  conflicting  with  the  duties  of  their  citizenship, 
and  so  antagonistic  to  the  principles  of  this  liberal  age. 
lie  held,  first,  that  the  autonomy  of  the  Rabbins  must 
cease ; secondly,  that  the  religious  obligations  should  be 
distinct  from  the  political  and  civil,  ami  should  yield  to 
the  latter  as  of  higher  authority ; and,  thirdly,  that  mar- 
riage is,  according  to  the  Jewish  law,  a civil  act,  and 
consequently  an  act.  independent  of  Jewish  authorities. 
(On  the  controversy  of  this  question,  see  Jews,  Re- 
formed.) In  1844  he  published  Ueber  d.  Beschneidung 
zunachst.  in  religios-dogmat.  Beziehwig  (Schwerin  and 
Berlin.  1844.  8vo),  in  which  he  treats  of  the  question 
whether  circumcision  is  essential  to  Jewish  membership, 
and  in  which  his  position  is  even  more  liberal  than  in 
the  treatment  of  the  questions  previously  alluded  to. 
Holdheim  was  also  a prominent  member  of  the  Jewish 
councils  held  from  1843  to  1846.  In  1847  he  was  celled 


HOLDSWORTH 


296 


HOLINESS 


to  Berlin  by  the  Jewish  Reform  Society  of  that  city,  con-  | 
sisting  of  members  who,  on  account  of  their  liberal  views, 
had  separated  from  the  orthodox  portion ; and  he  entered 
upon  the  duties  of  this  position  on  September  5.  Here 
he  labored  with  great  distinction,  and  from  this,  the  real 
centre  of  Germany,  he  scattered  the  seeds  of  his  extreme- 
ly liberal  views  among  his  Jewish  brethren  throughout 
the  entire  length  and  breadth  not  only  of  his  own  coun- 
try, but  of  the  world.  He  died  Aug.  22, I860.  Perhaps 
we  can  give  no  better  evidence  of  Holdheim’s  influence 
in  his  later  years  than  by  citing  the  words  of  Rabbi  Ein- 
liorn,  now  of  New  York  city  (in  Sinai:  Organ  fur  Er- 
kenntniss  it.  Veredlung  d.  Judenth.  Baltimore,  1860,  p.  288, 
the  November  number  of  which  gives  a pretty  full  bi- 
ography of  lloldheim) : “The  great  master  in  Israel, 
tiie  liigli-priest  of  Jewish  theological  science,  the  lion  in 
the  contest  for  light  and  truth,  no  longer  dwells  among 
us.”  Besides  a number  of  short  treatises  in  pamphlet 
form,  to  which  the  controversy  between  the  Reformed 
and  Orthodox  Jews  gave  rise,  he  published  Gesch.  der 
jiid.  Rcformgemeinde  (Berlin,  1857,  8vo) : — Religions-u. 
Sittenlehren  d.  Mischnah  z.Gebrauch  b.Religionsunterr.  i. 
jiid.  Religions-sch ulen  (Berlin,  1854, 12mo),  and  a larger 
work  on  the  same  subject  under  the  title  -Xtt 
HSnSTl,  Jiid.  Glaubens-u.  Sittenhdi re  (ib.  1857,  8vo)  : — 
Gebete  urul  Gesdnge  fur  das  Xeujahrs-u.  Versohnungsfest 
(Berlin,  1859,  8vo) ; and  rredigten  (vol.  i,  1852;  vol.  ii, 
1853;  vol.  iii,  1855),  besides  a number  of  sermons  sepa- 
rately published  since  his  death.  A complete  list  of  his 
works  up  to  1846  is  given  by  Fiirst  ( Bibliotli . Judenth. 
p.  404,  405).  See  Ritter  (Dr.  J.  H.),  Gesch.  der  jiid.  Re- 
formist ion,  vol.  iii  (Samuel  Holdheim,  Berl.  1865)  ; Jost, 
X.  Gesch.  d.  Israel , i,  99  sq. ; iii  ( Culturgesch .),  205  sq. ; 
Gesch.  d.  Judenth.  u.  s.  Sekten,  p.  374  sq.  (J.  II.  )V.) 

Holdsworth  (Holsworth,  Oldsworth,  or 
Oldisworth),  Richard,  an  English  divine,  was  born 
in  1590,  and  educated  at  St.John’s  College,  Cambridge. 
Later  he  became  a fellow  of  that  university.  In  1620 
he  was  appointed  one  of  the  twelve  preachers  at  Cam- 
bridge, was  then  called  to  St.Peter-le-Poor,  London,  and 
in  1629  was  appointed  professor  of  divinity  at  Gresham 
College.  In  1631  he  was  made  prebendary  of  Lincoln, 
in  1633  was  further  promoted  to  the  archdeaconry  of 
Huntingdon,  and  in  1637  was  recalled  to  Cambridge  as 
master  of  Emanuel  College.  He  was  a zealous  adherent 
to  the  cause  of  Charles  I,  and  suffered  on  this  account 
by  imprisonment  at  the  outbreak  of  the  Rebellion,  lie 
died  in  1649.  Holdsworth  wrote,  besides  a large  col- 
lection of  sermons,  of  which  a list  is  given  by  Darling 
{Cycloptedia  Bibliogr.  i,  1509)  and  by  Allibone  (Diet,  of 
Authors,  i,  863),  Prcelectiones  Theologian  (London,  1661, 
fob),  published  by  his  nephew,  Dr.  \Ym.  Pearson,  with 
the  life  of  the  author : — Valley  of  Vision,  in  twenty-one 
sermons  (London,  1651,  4to),  of  which  Fuller  speaks  in 
very  commendatory  terms,  paying  the  following  tribute 
to  Holdsworth  (also  cited  by  Allibone):  “The  author 
was  composed  of  a learned  head,  a gracious  heart,  a 
bountiful  hand,  and  a patient  back,  comfortably  and 
cheerfully  to  endure  such  heavy  afflictions  as  were  laid 
upon  him.” — Hook,  Eccles.  Bioy.  vi,  106  sq. 

Holdsworth,  Winch,  D.D.,  fellow  of  St.  John 
Baptist's  College,  was  born  in  the  first  half  of  the  18tli 
century,  and  educated  at  Oxford  University.  He  is  es- 
pecially celebrated  on  account  of  his  controversy  with 
Locke,  which  arose  from  his  views  on  the  Resurrection 
of  the  Body  (Oxford,  1720,  8vo;  and  the  same  defended, 
Loud.  1727,  8vo). — Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  863. 

Hole,  Matthew,  D.D.,  a learned  English  divine, 
was  born  about  1640.  He  entered  the  University  of 
Oxford  as  servitor  at  Exeter  College  in  1657,  was  elect- 
ed fellow  in  1663,  and  became  M.A.  in  1664,  prebendary 
of  Wells  in  1667,  and  rector  of  his  college  in  1715.  He 
died  in  1730.  His  sermons  were  of  high  repute  in  their 
day.  Among  his  writings  are  An  Antidote  agaimt.  In- 
fidelity (Lond.  1702,  8%'o)  : — Practical  Discourses  on  the  ] 
Liturgy  of  the  Church  of  England  (new  ed.  by  the  Rev. 


J.  A.  Giles,  Lond.  1837,  4 vols.8vo): — A practical  Expo • 
sition  of  the  Church  Catechism  (3d  ed.  Lond.  1732,  2 vols. 
8vo): — Practical  Discourses  on  the  Xature,  Properties, 
and  Excellencies  of  Charity  (Oxf.  1725,  8vo). — Darling, 
Cycloptedia  Bibliographica,  i,  1515. 

Holgate,  archbishop  of  York  under  king  Edward 
VI,  was  one  of  the  prelates  of  the  Reformers  who  were 
silenced  under  queen  Mary  shortly  after  her  accession 
to  the  throne  of  England,  under  the  pretense  that  their 
marriage  relations  were  non-ecclesiastical.  Later  (Oct. 
4, 1553)  he  was  imprisoned  in  the  Tower,  and  kept  there 
until  January  18  of  the  following  year,  when  he  was 
pardoned.  The  dates  of  the  birth  and  death  of  Holgate 
are  not  known. — Strype’s  Memorials  of  the  Reformation , 

iv,  57  sq. ; Hardwick,  I list,  of  the  Christian  Church  dur- 
ing the  Reformation,  p.  234. 

Holidays.  See  Holy-day;  Festivals. 

Holiness  (ILHp,  ayioovv i]),  prop,  the  state  of  sanc- 
tity, but  often  used  of  external  or  ceremonial  relations 
(then  more  prop,  boiort je). 

1.  Intnnsic  Idea. — “Holiness  suggests  the  idea,  not 
of  perfect  virtue,  but  of  that  peculiar  affection  where- 
with a being  of  perfect  virtue  regards  moral  evil ; and  so 
much,  indeed,  is  this  the  precise  and  characteristic  im- 
port of  the  term,  that,  had  there  been  no  evil  either  act- 
ual or  conceivable  in  the  universe,  there  would  have 
been  no  holiness.  There  would  have  been  perfect  truth 
and  perfect  righteousness,  yet  not  holiness ; for  this  is  a 
word  which  denotes  neither  any  one  of  the  virtues  in 
particular,  nor  the  assemblage  of  them  all  put  together, 
but  the  recoil  or  the  repulsion  of  these  towards  the  op- 
posite vices — a recoil  that  never  would  have  been  felt 
if  vice  had  been  so  far  a nonentity  as  to  be  neither  an 
object  of  real  existence  nor  an  object  of  thought”  (Chal- 
mers, Xat.  Theol.  ii,  380). — Krauth,  Fleming’s  Vocab.  of 
Philos,  p.  217. 

II.  A pjif Rations  of  the  Term. — 1.  In  the  highest  sense, 
holiness  belongs  to  God  alone  (Isa.  vi,  3;  Rev.  xv,  4), 
because  he  only  is  absolutely  good  (Luke  xviii,  19),  and 
thus  demands  the  supreme  veneration  of  those  who 
would  themselves  become  good  (Luke  i,  49 ; John  xvii, 
1 1 ; Acts  iii,  14  [iv,  27, 30]  ; 1 John  ii,  20 ; Heb.  vii,  26 ; 
Rev.  iv,  8).  See  Holiness  of  God. 

2.  Men  are  called  holy  (a)  in  as  far  as  they  are  ves- 
sels of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  of  divine  power,  e.  g.  the 
prophets ; and  also  in  as  far  as  they  belong  to  an  organ- 
ization which  is  dedicated  to  God.  In  the*N.  T.  Chris- 
tians are  especially  holy,  as  being  wholly  consecrated  to 
God’s  service.  (Comp.  Rom.  viii,  27 ; xii,  13;  1 Cor.  vi, 
2;  Eph.  ii,  19:  v,  3;  vi,  18;  Col.  i,  11;  iii,  12;  2 Tct.  i, 
21;  Rev.  xiii,  10;  Jude  14.)  Men  are  also  called  holy 
( b ) in  so  far  as  they  are  or  become  habitually  good,  de- 
nying sin,  thinking  and  acting  in  a godlike  manner,  and, 
in  short,  conforming,  in  their  innermost  being,  as  well  as 
in  their  outward  conduct,  to  the  highest  and  absolute 
law  or  the  will  of  God  (Rom.  vi,  19,  22;  Eph.  i,  4;  Tit. 
i,  8 ; 1 Ret.  i,  15 ; Rev.  xx,  6). 

The  grounds  of  this  sanctification,  according  to  out- 
ward appearance,  are  twofold,  viz. : (a)  Holiness  is  given 
of  God  by  the  mediation  of  Christ,  conditioned  upon 
faith  and  an  inward  surrender,  which  are  themselves 
likewise  the  gift  of  God.  ( b ) Man  from  within,  by  a 
proper  purification  of  the  heart,  may  attain  this  sancti- 
ty. Although  the  last  cannot  occur  without  the  assist- 
ance of  God,  yet  the  personal  activity  of  man  is  neces- 
sary and  almost  preponderant.  Still,  even  interior  holi- 
ness is,  as  above  implied,  the  direct  work  of  God. 

3.  As  everything  dedicated  to  God  partakes  in  a cer- 
tain manner  of  his  holiness,  so  even  things  (e.  g.  the 
Temple),  forms,  and  ceremonies  (e.  g.  sacrifice) : hence 
“to  hallow”  means  also  to  dedicate  to  God,  to  offer  up, 
to  bring  as  an  offering,  to  present  one's  self  as  dedicated  to 
God  through  Christ  (Rev.  xxvi,  18;  1 Cor.  vi,  11 ; Eph. 

v,  26 ; Heb.  ii,  11 ; x,  10, 14 ; John  xvii,  17).  In  the  N. 
T.,  where  the  merciful  assistance  of  God  in  customary 
purity  or  objective  holiness  appears  prominent,  the  ex- 


HOLINESS 


207 


HOLINESS 


pression  to  “sanctify  one’s  self’  is  used  only  concerning 
Christ,  and  means  here  the  same  as  to  offer  up  himself 
as  a sacrifice  for  human  sin  (John  xvii,  19).  But  as  man 
may  make  himself  holy,  i.  e.  under  the  assistance  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  he  may  work  for  his  own  purity;  similar 
phraseology  is  used  of  Christians  (Matt,  xxiii,  17 ; John 
xvii,  19;  1 Tim.  iv,  5). 

4.  That  by  which  God  reveals  his  holiness,  e.  g.  the 
Law,  is  also  holy  (Rom.  vii,  12). 

III.  Progression.  — Complete  holiness,  as  applied  to 
men,  designates  the  state  of  perfect  love,  which  exhibits 
itself  in  this,  that  every  thought  of  man,  every  emotion 
and  volition,  hence  also  every  deed,  is  determined  by 
the  will  of  God,  and  thus  the  old  man,  who  has  been 
fainting  under  the  burdens  of  worldly  lust,  and  has  been 
carrying  the  chains  of  the  flesh,  is  cast  off,  and  the  new 
man  is  fully  put  on.  This  sanctification  is  both  a work 
of  God  and  of  man.  This  divine  grace  eomes  through 
Christ,  first  at  conversion,  and  by  successive  steps  there- 
after under  the  influence  of  the  Iloly  Spirit.  Man  must 
seize  the  proffered  hand  of  God,  use  the  means  of  grace 
afforded  him,  and  by  the  assistance  of  God  perfect  holi- 
ness. Thus,  on  the  one  hand,  everything  comes  from 
God,  and,  on  the  other,  the  personal  work  of  man  is  nec- 
essary. Whatever  the  good  man  is,  he  is  through  God 
and  liis  own  will;  the  evil  man,  however,  is  so  only 
through  his  own  will,  for  evil  is  falling  away  from  God. 
Goodness  consists  ultimately  in  susceptibility  for  the  di- 
vine work  of  grace,  while  wickedness  has  its  final  ground 
in  the  free  hardening  of  the  heart  against  the  divine  in- 
fluences. 

Personal  holiness  is  a work  of  development  in  time, 
frequently  under  a variety  of  hinderanees  and  back- 
slidings,  and  even  with  the  possibility  of  entire  ruin. 
Hence  the  admonitions  to  watchfulness,  to  continual 
prayer,  to  perseverance  in  faith,  in  love,  and  in  hope, 
are  abundant  (1  Cor.  i,  30 ; 2 Cor.  vii,  1 ; Eph.  iv,  23, 24 ; 
eomp.  Rom.  xii,  2) ; hence  also  the  apostle’s  prayer  that 
the  love  of  the  Philippians  might  abound  yet  more  and 
more  (Phil,  i,  9).  But  while  the  laying  aside  of  the  old, 
and  the  putting  on  of  the  new,  are  thus  referred  to  man, 
of  course  it  is  not  the  meaning  of  the  sacred  writer  that 
sanctification  is  accomplished  by  our  own  power.  Christ 
is  our  sanctification,  as  he  is  our  righteousness  (I  Cor. 
i,  30) ; yet  all  that  Christ  through  the  Iloly  Spirit  works 
in  man  may  become  in  vain,  because  man  by  his  un- 
faithfulness can  hinder  the  operation  of  the  Spirit. 

IV.  Metaphorical  Representations  of  a State  of  J holi- 
ness.—h\  the  Scriptures  this  sanctification  is  described 
in  manifold  as  well  as  strong  and  explicit  figures  as  a 
“putting  off”  of  the  old  man,  and  a putting  on  of  the 
new  man  (Col.  iii,  9),  the  subject  becoming  dead  to  the 
old,  and  having  recovered  the  lost  image  of  God.  It  is 
represented  as  self-denial  (1  Cor.  ix,  26,  27) ; as  a cleans- 
ing (1  John  i,  9;  comp.  Ileb.  i,  3 ; ix,  14 ; Eph.  v,  20 ; 2 
Pet.  i,  9) ; as  a washing  (1  Cor.  vi,  11);  as  a taking 
away  of  sin  (John  i,  29) ; as  being  filled  with  the  fruits 
of  righteousness  (Phil,  i,  11);  with  the  water  of  life 
(John  vii,  38;  compare  iv,  14) ; as  a shedding  abroad  of 
the  love  of  God  in  the  heart  (Rom.  v,  5) ; as  baptism 
into  Christ  (Rom.  vi,  3;  Eph.  i,  10;  ii,  5;  Rev.  xv,  1) ; 
fellowship  with  God  (1  John  i,  3);  as  being  in  the  Fa- 
ther, and  in  the  Son,  and  in  the  light  (1  John  ii,  5, 6, 10, 
24;  compare  Eph.  ii,  15;  John  xiv,  20) ; as  the  having 
God,  Christ,  and  the  IIolv  Spirit  dwelling  in  us  (John 
xiv,  17,  20;  Gal.  ii,  20;  1 Cor.  v,  15;  1 John  ii,  24;  iv, 
4, 12-15;  Eph.  iv,  G) ; as  a birth  unto  God  and  Christ 
(1  John  ii,  29;  iii,  9,  10;  iv,  4-7;  v,  18,  19);  as  being 
partaker  of  the  divine  nature  (2  Pet.  i,  4) ; children  of 
God  (Rom.  viii,  14;  John  i,  12;  1 John  iii,  1,  2);  born 
again  (John  iii,  5,  7 ; Titus  iii,  5,  G) ; as  being  one  with 
Christ  and  one  another  (John  xvii,  22, 26). — Krcld,  X cu- 
test am.  Worterh.  p.  356.  See  Sanctification. 

Holiness,  as  a note  of  the  Church.  See  Sanctity. 

HOLINESS  OF  GOD,  his  essential  and  absolute 
moral  perfection.  Primarily,  the  word  holy  (Sax.  halig ; 
Germ,  heilig,  whole,  sound)  denotes  perfection  in  a moral 


sense.  As  applied  to  man,  it  denotes  entire  conformity 
to  the  will  of  God.  Sec  Sanctification.  “ But  when 
we  speak  of  God,  we  speak  of  a Being  who  is  a law-  unto 
himself,  and  whose  conduct  cannot  be  referred  to  a high- 
er authority  than  his  own.”  See  Holiness,  above. 

1.  “As  to  the  use  of  the  words  UjnjS  and  uytoq,  some 
critics  assert  that  they  are  only  used  in  Scripture,  with 
reference  to  God,  to  describe  him  as  the  object  of  awe 
and  veneration ; and  it  is  true  that  this  is  their  prevail- 
ing meaning—e.g.  Isa.  vi,  9;  John  xvii,  11  (uyit  wdrep) 
— and  that  accordingly  dyid^taOai  signifies  to  be  esteem- 
ed venerable , to  be  reverenced.  Still  it  is  undeniable  that 
these  words  in  many  passages  arc  applied  to  God  in  a 
moral  sense ; e.  g.  Lev.  xix,  2,  ‘ Be  ye  holy,  for  I am 
holy;’  eomp.  I Pet.  i,  14-16.  Thus  also  brnortjg,  Eph. 
iv,  24;  and  dyuoovw],  dytarrpdq,  by  which  all  moral 
perfection  is  so  frequently  designated,  more  especially 
in  the  New  Testament.  The  different  synonym ical  sig- 
nifications of  the  words  C’Hp  and  uyiog  are  clearly  con- 
nected in  the  following  manner:  (a)  The  being  external- 
ly pure  ; e.  g.  2 Sam.  xi,  4 ; Lev.  xi,  43,  44 ; xx,  7,  25, 
26  sq.  ( b ) The  being  separate,  since  we  are  accustomed 
to  divide  what  is  pure  from  what  is  impure,  and  to  cast 
away  the  latter;  and  therefore  (c)  The  possessing  of 
any  kind  of  external  advantage,  distinction,  or  worth.  So 
the  Jews  were  said  to  be  holy  to  Cod,  in  opposition  to 
others,  who  were  Koirot,  profane,  common,  miconsecruted. 
Then  everything  which  was  without  imperfection,  dis- 
grace, or  blemish  was  called  holy;  and  “p,  llyiog, 
sucrosanctus,  came  thus  to  signify  what  was  inviolable 
(Isa.  iv,  3;  1 Cor.  iii,  17) ; hence  Uop’O,  asylum.  They 
were  then  used  in  the  more  limited  sense  of  chaste,  (like 
the  Latin  sanctitas),  a sense  in  which  they  arc  also  some- 
times used  in  the  New  Testament;  e.  g.  1 Thess.  iv,  3, 
7 (comp.  Wolf,  ad  loe.).  They  then  came  to  denote  any 
internal  moral  perfection ; and,  finally,  perfection,  in  the 
general  notion  of  it,  as  exclusive  of  all  imperfection.” 

2.  “ The  holiness  of  God,  in  the  general  notion  of  it,  is 

his  moral  perfection — that  attribute  by  which  all  moral 
imperfection  is  removed  from  his  nature.  The  holiness 
of  the  will  of  God  is  that,  therefore,  by  which  he  chooses, 
necessarily  and  invariably,  what  is  morally  good,  and 
refuses  what  is  morally  evil.  The  holiness  and  justice 
of  God  are,  in  reality,  one  and  the  same  thing;  the  dis- 
tinction consists  in  this  only,  that  holiness  denotes  the 
internal  inclination  of  the  divine  will — the  disposition 
of  God,  and  justice  the  expression  of  the  same  by  ac- 
tions. This  attribute  implies,  1.  That  no  sinful  or  wick- 
ed inclination  can  be  found  in  God.  lienee  he  is  said 
(James  i,  13,  17)  to  be  cnrttpaoToq  kokwp,  incapable  of 
being  tempted  to  evil  (not  in  the  active  sense,  as  it  is 
rendered  by  the  Vulgate  and  Luther)  ; and  in  1 John  i, 
5,  to  be  light,  and  without  darkness;  i.  e.  holy,  and 
without  sin.  In  this  sense  he  is  called  KuOaodc, 

ciyvbg  (1  John  iii,  3) ; also  E^EF,  uwXboq,  integer  (l’sa. 
xviii,  31).  The  older  writers  described  this  by  the 
word  dva/idp-njToe,  impeccabilis.  [The  sinlcssness  of 
God  is  also  designated  in  the  New  Testament  by  the 
words  riXetog  (Matt,  v,  48)  and  oaiog  (Rev.  xvi,  5).]  2. 

That  he  never  chooses  what  is  false  and  deceitful,  but 
only  what  is  truly  good — what  his  perfect  intelligence 
recognises  as  such;  and  that  lie  is  therefore  the  most 
perfect  teacher  and  the  highest  exemplar  of  moral  good- 
ness. lienee  the  Bible  declares  that  he  looks  with  dis- 
pleasure upon  wicked,  deceitful  courses  (Psa.  i,  5 sip ; 
v,  5:  ‘Thou  hatest  all  workers  of  iniquity’)  : hut,  on  the 
contrary,  he  regards  the  pious  with  favor  (Psa.  a-,  7.  8; 
xv,  1 sq.;  xviii,  26  sq. ; xxxiii,  18)”  (Knapp,  Theology, 
§ 29).  HoAve  speaks  of  the  holiness  of  God  as  *•  the  ac- 
tual, perpetual  rectitude  of  all  his  Additions,  and  all  the 
AA'orks  and  actions  Avhich  are  consequent  thereupon ; and 

1 an  eternal  propension  thereto  and  loA'e  thereof,  by  Avhich 
it  is  altogether  impossible  to  that  will  that  it  should 
ever  Arary.” 

3.  Holiness  is  an  essential  attribute  of  God,  and  adds 


HOLINESS 


298 


IIOLKOT 


glory,  lustre,  anil  harmony  to  all  his  other  perfections 
(Psn.  xxvii,  4;  Exod.  xv,  11).  He  could  not  be  God 
without  it  (Deut.  xxxii,  4).  It  is  infinite  and  unbound- 
ed; it  cannot  be  increased  or  diminished.  It  is  also  im- 
mutable and  invariable  (Mai.  iii,  G).  God  is  originally 
holy;  he  is  so  of  and  in  himself,  and  the  author  and  pro- 
moter of  all  holiness  among  his  creatures.  The  holiness 
of  God  is  visible  by  his  works;  he  made  all  things  holy 
(Gen.  i,  31) : by  his  providences,  all  which  are  to  pro- 
mote holiness  in  the  end  (Ileb.  xL,  10)  : by  his  grace, 
which  influences  the  subjects  of  it  to  be  holy  (Tit.  ii,  10, 
12) : by  his  word,  which  commands  it  (1  Pet.  i,  15) : 
by  his  ordinances,  which  he  hath  appointed  for  that 
end  (Jcr.  xliv,  4,  5)  : by  the  punishment  of  sin  in  the 
death  of  Christ  (Isa.  liii) ; and  by  the  eternal  punishment 
of  it  in  wicked  men  (Matt,  xx,  4G)  (Buck).  See  At- 
tributes. The  holiness  of  God,  like  his  other  attri- 
butes, constitutes  the  divine  essence  itself,  and  conse- 
quently exists  in  him  in  the  state  of  absolute  perfection. 
It  were  therefore  impossible  to  consider  it  as  a conform- 
ity of  God  to  the  laws  of  right,  since  God  himself,  on 
the  contrary,  is  the  idea  and  principle  of  holiness.  But, 
on  the  other  hand,  we  may  not  say  that  the  will  of  God 
simply  constitutes  the  essence  of  divine  holiness.  To 
mankind,  indeed,  the  simple  will  of  God  is  at  once  law 
in  all  things;  but  with  regard  to  God  himself,  his  will 
is  holy  because  he  wills  only  according  to  his  immanent 
holiness,  i.  c.  liis  own  nature.  As  the  absolute  Being, 
God  is  necessarily  in  no  wise  dependent  on  any  outward 
law;  but  as  a morally  perfect  spirit  God  cannot  but  be 
true  to  himself,  and  thus  manifest  in  all  his  agency  his 
inherent  moral  perfection  as  his  immanent  law. 

The  earlier  dogmatists  of  the  Keformeil  Church  large- 
ly discussed  the  question  whether  right  is  right  because 
God  wills  it,  or  whether  God  wills  right  because  it  is 
right.  Some  (e.  g.  Polanus)  maintained  the  former  view 
as  the  only  one  consistent  with  the  absolute  nature  of 
God.  The  later  writers  maintain  the  opposite  view,  e. 
g.  Voetius  : “God  is  subject  to  no  moral  duty/bom  with- 
out, because  he  is  no  man’s  debtor,  and  there  is  no  cause 
outside  of  God  that  can  bind  or  determine  him.  But 1 
from  within  he  maybe  bound  (so  to  speak),  not,  indeed,  | 
in  the  sense  of  subjection,  because  he  is  his  own  debtor, , 
and  cannot  deny  himself.  Thus,  in  divine  things,  the  Fa- 
ther is  bound  to  love  the  Son,  for  he  cannot  but  love 
him ; while  the  Son,  by  the  very  necessity  of  his  di-  | 
vine  nature,  is  bound  to  work  by  the  Father;  nor  can  he  , 
do  otherwise  whenever  a work  outside  of  God  is  to  be  , 
performed.  So,  also,  in  external  acts,  the  creature  hav-  ( 
ing  been  once  produced,  God  is  bound  to  maintain  it  by  , 
his  perpetual  power  and  continual  influence  (as  long  as 
he  wishes  it  to  exist),  to  move  directly  upon  it  as  its 
first  mover,  and  guide  it  to  his  glory  (Prov.  xvi,  4 ; Rom. 
xi,  31-3G).  That  is  immutably  good  and  just  whose 
opposite  he  eannot  wish.”  So  also  Heidegger  ( Corp . 
Theol.  iii,  89,  90):  “Whatever  is  the  holiness,  justice, 
and  goodness  of  the  creature,  nevertheless  its  rule  and 
first  norm  in  the  sight  of  God  is  not  his  free  will  and 
command,  but  his  own  essential  justice,  holiness,  and  good- 
ness." Oil  this  subject  Watson  remarks  as  follows: 
“ W ithont  conducting  the  reader  into  the  profitless  ques- 
tion whether  there  is  a fixed  and  unalterable  nature  and 
fitness  of  things,  independent  of  the  divine  will  on  the 
one  hand ; or,  on  the  other,  whether  good  and  evil  have 
their  foundation,  not  in  the  nature  of  things,  but  only 
in  the  divine  will,  which  makes  them  such,  there  is  a 
method,  less  direct  it  may  be,  but  more  satisfactory,  of 
assisting  our  thoughts  on  this  subject.  It  is  certain 
that  various  affections  and  actions  have  been  enjoined 
upon  all  rational  creatures  under  the  general  name  of 
righteousness,  and  that  their  contraries  have  been  pro- 
hibited. It  is  a matter  also  of  constant  experience  and 
observation  that  the  good  of  society  is  promoted  only 
by  the  one,  and  injured  by  the  other;  and  also  that  ev- 
ery individual  derives,  by  the  very  constitution  of  his 
nature,  benefit  and  happiness  from  rectitude,  injury  and 
misery  from* vice.  This  constitution  of  human  nature  i 


is  therefore  an  indication  that  the  Maker  and  Ruler  of 
men  formed  them  with  the  intent  that  they  should  avoid 
vice  and  practice  virtue ; anil  that  the  former  is  the  ob- 
ject of  his  aversion,  the  latter  of  his  regard.  On  this 
principle,  all  the  laws,  which  in  his  legislative  character 
almighty  God  has  enacted  for  the  government  of  man- 
kind, have  been  constructed.  ‘The  law  is  holy,  and  the 
commandment  holy,  just,  and  good.'  In  the  administra- 
tion of  the  world,  where  God  is  so  often  seen  in  his  judi- 
cial capacity,  the  punishments  which  are  indicted,  indi- 
rectly or  immediately  upon  man,  clearly  tend  to  discour- 
age and  prevent  the  practice  of  evil.  ‘Above  all,  the 
Gospel,  that  last  and  most  perfect  revelation  of  the  di- 
vine will,  instead  of  giving  the  professors  of  it  any  al- 
lowance to  sin,  because  grace  has  abounded  (which  is 
an  injurious  imputation  cast  upon  it  by  ignorant  and 
impious  minds),  its  chief  design  is  to  establish  that  great 
principle,  God’s  moral  purity,  and  to  manifest  his  abhor- 
rence of  sin,  and  inviolable  regard  to  purity  and  virtue 
in  his  reasonable  creatures.  It  was  for  this  he  sent  his 
Son  into  the  world  to  turn  men  from  their  iniquities, 
and  bring  them  back  to  the  paths  of  righteousness.  F or 
this  the  blessed  Jesus  submitted  to  the  deepest  humilia- 
tions and  most  grievous  sufferings.  He  gave  himself 
(as  St.  Paul  speaks)  for  his  Church,  that  he  might  sanc- 
tify and  cleanse  it ; that  he  might  present  it  to  himself  a 
glorious  Church,  not  having  spot  or  wrinkle,  but  that  it 
should  be  holy  and  without  blemish;  or,  as  it  is  else- 
where expressed,  he  gave  himself  for  us,  to  redeem  us 
from  our  iniquities,  and  to  purify  unto  himself  a peculiar 
people,  zealous  of  good  works’  (Abernethy,  Sermons). 
Since,  then,  it  is  so  manifest  that  ‘ the  Lord  loveth 
righteousness  and  hateth  iniquity,’  it  must  be  necessa- 
rily concluded  that  this  preference  of  the  one,  and  ha- 
tred of  the  other,  flow  from  some  principle  in  his  very 
nature — ‘ that  he  is  the  righteous  Lord;  of  purer  eyes 
than  to  behold  evil ; one  who  cannot  look  upon  iniqui- 
ty.’ This  principle  is  holiness,  an  attribute  which,  in 
the  most  emphatic  manner,  is  assumed  by  himself,  and 
attributed  to  him,  both  by  adoring  angels  in  their  choirs, 
and  by  inspired  saints  in  their  worship.  lie  is,  by  His 
own  designation,  ‘the  Holy  Oxe  of  Israel;'  the  seraphs 
in  the  vision  of  the  prophet  cry  continually,  ‘Holy, 
holy,  holy  is  the  Lord  God  of  hosts;  the  vdiole  earth  is 
full  of  his  glory ;'  thus  summing  up  all  liis  glories  in  this 
sole  moral  perfection.  The  language  of  the  sanctuary 
on  earth  is  borrowed  from  that  of  heaven:  * Who  shall 
not  fear  thee,  0 Lord,  and  glorify  thy  name,  for  thou  only 
art  Holy.’  If,  then,  there  is  this  principle  in  the  di- 
vine mind  which  leads  him  to  prescribe,  love,  and  re- 
ward truth,  justice,  benevolence,  and  every  other  virtu- 
ous affection  and  habit  in  his  creatures  which  we  sum 
up  in  the  term  holiness,  anil  to  forbid,  restrain,  and  pun- 
ish their  opposites — that  principle,  being  essential  in  him, 
a part  of  his  very  nature  and  Godhead,  must  be  the 
spring  and  guide  of  his  own  conduct;  and  thus  we  con- 
ceive without  difficulty  of  the  essential  rectitude  or  holi- 
ness of  the  divine  nature,  and  the  absolutely  pure  and 
righteous  character  of  his  administration.  This  attri- 
bute of  holiness  exhibits  itself  in  two  great  branches, 
justice  and  truth,  which  are  sometimes  also  treated  of  as 
separate  attributes.”  See  Watson,  Theolog.  Institutes,  i, 
43G;  Knapp,  Theology,  §29;  Lelanil,  Sermons,  i,  199; 
Abernethy,  Sermons,  ii,  180 ; Heppe,  Dogmatik  der  evang- 
reform.  Kirche,  p.  73  sq. ; Pye  Smith,  Theol.  p.  173  sq. ; 
Pearson,  Exposition  of  the  Creed,  i,  10,  531,  541 ; Smith’s 
Ilagenbach,  Ilistorg  of  Doctrines,  i,  110  sq.;  Dorner,  in 
Jahrb.f  deutsche  Theol.  i,  2 ; ii,  3 ; iii,  3 ; lloofer,  A ’our. 
Biog.  Generale,  xix,  G18 ; Herzog,  Reul-Encyklop.  v,  133 ; 
iii,  321 ; xix,  G18-G24;  Biblioth.  Sac.  xii,  377 ; xiii,  840; 
Meth.  Quart,  llev.  xi,  505 ; Thomasius,  Dogmatik,  i,  141 ; 
Staudenmeier,  Dogmatik,  ii,  590-G10;  Dwight,  Theol.  i 
(see  Index) ; Martcnsen,  Dogmatik,  p.  99 ; Clark,  Outl.  of 
Theol.  ii,  9 sq. ; Calvin,  Institutes,  i,  377 ; Wesley,  IForfo, 
ii,  430.  See  God. 

Holiness,  a title  of  the  Pope.  See  Pope. 

Holkot.  See  Holcot. 


HOLLAND 


299 


HOLLAND 


Holland,  also  called  The  Netherlands,  a king- 
dom in  Europe,  has  an  area  of  13,890  English  square 
miles.  Holland  still  owns  extensive  colonies  in  the  East 
and  West  Indies,  and  in  South  America,  which  together 
make  an  area  of  about  085,700  English  square  miles. 

I.  Church  History. — At  the  beginning  of  the  Chris- 
tian aera,  the  country  which  is  now  called  Holland  or 
the  Netherlands  was  inhabited  by  Germanic  tribes,  of 
whom  the  Batavians  and  Frisians  (q.  v.)  are  best  known. 
Their  subjection,  begun  by  Cresar,  was  completed  by 
Germanicus.  At  the  beginning  of  the  4th  century  the 
Franks  conquered  a large  portion  of  the  country;  only 
the  Frisians  maintained  their  independence  until  the 
7th  century.  Charlemagne  appointed  counts  in  Batavia 
and  in  Zealand,  and  compelled  the  people  to  embrace 
the  Christian  religion.  Alter  the  division  of  the  em- 
pire of  Charlemagne,  the  Netherlands  were  united  with 
Lorraine,  and  they  both  were  made  a dependency  of  Ger- 
many. But  gradually  a number  of  princes  became  semi- 
independent;  among  them  the  bishops  of  Utrecht,  who 
ruled  over  Upper-Yssel  and  Groningen.  The  most  pow- 
erful among  the  princes  were  the  counts  of  Flanders, 
and  after  the  extinction  of  these  last  their  land  fell  by 
marriage  to  the  dukes  of  Burgundy,  who  gradually  came 
into  possession  of  the  whole  of  the  Netherlands,  remain- 
ing, however,  feudal  to  the  German  emperor.  The  mar- 
riage of  the  daughter  cf  the  last  duke  of  Burgundy  with 
Maximilian,  archduke  of  Austria  (later,  emperor  Maxi- 
milian I of  Germany),  made  the  Netherlands  a part  of 
the  extensive  dominions  of  the  house  of  Hapsburg. 

The  Christianization  of  the  country  has  been  referred 
to  in  the  arts.  Belgium  and  Friesland.  Holland,  like 
Belgium,  early  became  distinguished  for  its  excellent  ca- 
thedral schools,  especially  that  of  Utrecht.  A great  in- 
fluence upon  the  religious  life  not  only  of  Holland,  but 
of  many  other  countries,  was  exercised  by  the  Brothers 
of  Common  Life,  who  were  founded  by  Gerhard  Groote 
(q.v.)  (1340-1384).  This  order  soon  established  a num- 
ber of  schools,  especially  in  the  Netherlands  and  the 
adjacent  parts  of  Germany,  which  imparted  not  only 
elementary  instruction,  but  also  a higher  education. 
Thus  Holland  became  celebrated  for  its  learning  and 
scholarship,  which  in  the  15th  century  was  further  pro- 
moted by  the  establishment  of  the  University  of  Deven- 
ter. Many  of  the  prominent  men  of  Holland  took  an 
active  part  in  the  efforts  to  reform  the  Church  of  Rome ; 
the  best  known  of  these  reformers  is  John  de  Wessel. 
The  Mennonites  (q.  v.)  fully  separated  from  the  Church 
of  Rome,  and,  living  in  a country  which  was  favorable 
to  religious  toleration,  suffered  less  from  persecution  than 
most  of  the  mediaeval  sects. 

The  Reformation  of  the  IGth  century  found  in  few 
countries  so  congenial  a soil  as  in  Holland.  Favored  by 
the  liberal  traditions  of  the  country,  the  national  spirit 
of  independence,  and  the  extensive  commerce  with  for- 
eign countries,  it  spread  rapidly.  In  vain  did  Charles 
V issue  a number  of  cruel  edicts  (the  first  in  March. 
1520,  the  last  in  1550)  to  put  it  down;  it  grew  in  spite 
of  all  persecution.  Among  the  different  reformed  sys- 
tems which  then  began  to  establish  themselves,  it  was 
especially  that  of  Calvin, first  introduced  by  young  Dutch 
students  of  Geneva,  which  struck  deep  root.  The  Lu- 
theran doctrines,  and,  still  more.  Anabaptist  movements, 
also  found  numerous  adherents,  but  Calvinism  soon  ob- 
tained the  ascendency,  owing  to  a large  extent  to  the 
influence  of  the  Reformed  churches  of  England  and 
France.  Thus  arose  the  Dutch  Reformed  Church,  em- 
bracing at  its  origin  the  reformed  churches  of  Belgium, 
as  well  as  those  of  Holland,  as  these  countries  were  at 
this  time  politically  united.  [The  inner  history  of  this 
Church  is  given  in  the  article  Reformed  Church.] 
Philip  II  was  determined  to  destroy  the  new  doctrine, 
and  introduced  into  the  Netherlands  all  the  horrors  of  j 
the  Spanish  Inquisition.  This  called  forth  a general  op- 
position. The  lower  nobility  united  in  presenting  to  j 
the  regent  Margaret  of  Parma  a protest  against  religious 
persecutions;  the  citizens  assembled  in  the  open  field  for  ! 


divine  service.  In  15GG,  general  attacks  began  against 
the  Roman  Catholic  churches.  In  1567,  Philip  sent  duke 
Alba  to  the  Netherlands  with  an  army,  consisting  of 
Spaniards  and  Italians,  to  subdue  the  religious  move- 
ment; but  the  cruel  tyranny  of  the  duke  led  to  very 
different  results.  William  of  Orange,  the  stadtholder, 
who  had  escaped  death  by  flight,  unsuccessfully  at- 
tempted, at  the  head  of  an  army  of  exiles,  to  expel  the 
Spaniards,  but  in  1572  nearly  the  whole  of  the  northern 
provinces  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  patriots.  The  ef- 
forts of  Alba  to  suppress  the  revolution  by  force  of 
arms  having  entirely  failed,  he  was  recalled,  and  depart- 
ed in  Jan.  1574,  boasting  that  during  his  administration 
18, GOO  men  had  been  executed,  chiefly  on  account  of  re- 
ligion. The  efforts  of  his  successors  likewise  failed  to  re- 
establish the  rule  of  Spain.  In  1579,  the  provinces  of 
Holland,  Zealand,  Utrecht,  Friesland,  Groningen,  Over- 
vssel,  and  Guelderland  formed  the  Union  of  Utrecht,  and 
thus  laid  the  foundation  of  the  republic  cf  the  Seven 
LTnited  Provinces.  From  this  time  the  history  of  the 
Netherlands  divides  itself  into  that  of  Holland,  in  which 
the  ascendency  of  Protestantism  was  henceforth  estab- 
lished, and  that  of  Flanders  (subsequently  Belyium,  q.v.), 
or  the  ten  provinces,  which  remained  under  the  Spanish 
dominion,  and  adhered  to  the  Roman  Catholic  Church. 
William  of  Orange  was  assassinated  in  1584  by  a partisan 
of  Spain,  but  his  son  Maurice  successfully  defended  the 
independence  of  Holland,  and  in  1G09  compelled  Spain  to 
agree  to  a truce  for  twelve  years.  During  the  peace  an 
unfortunate  quarrel  broke  out  between  the  Calvinists 
and  the  Arminians  (q.  v.).  Maurice,  who  aspired  to  be- 
come hereditary  sovereign  of  Holland,  placed  himself, 
from  political  reasons,  at  the  head  of  the  strict  Calvin- 
ists, and  when  he  prevailed,  the  venerable  head  of  the 
Arminian  party,  Bameveldt,  one  of  the  most  illustrious 
of  the  Dutch  statesmen,  was  (May  13,1619)  executed, 
while  Hugo  Grotius,  another  distinguished  leader  of  the 
Arminians,  or,  as  they  were  generally  called,  from  their 
remonstrances  in  favor  of  religious  toleration,  Remon- 
strants, escaped  by  an  artifice.  The  war  with  Spain  was 
renewed  in  1621,  but  at  the  Peace  of  Westphalia  in  1648, 
Spain  had  to  recognise  the  independence  of  Holland. 

Under  various  political  vicissitudes,  Holland  remained 
henceforth  a Protestant  country.  On  the  establishment 
of  the  Batavian  republic  in  1795,  in  consequence  of  the 
conquest  of  the  country  by  France,  Church  and  State 
were  separated;  the  constitution  of  the  national  Church 
remained,  however,  substantially  as  before.  Simultane- 
ously with  the  erection  of  the  kingdom  of  Holland  un- 
der Napoleon,  an  attempt  was  made  to  reorganize  the 
Church,  at  the  head  of  which  the  national  Synod  was 
to  be  placed;  but  this  plan,  also,  was  not  executed,  as  in 
1810  Holland  was  incorporated  with  the  French  empire. 
An  introduction  of  the  Organic  Articles  (1812)  was  then 
meditated,  but  never  carried  through.  The  re-estab- 
lishment of  the  Netherlands  as  an  independent  state, 
with  which  also  Belgium  was  united,  restored  to  the 
national  Church  most  of  the  rights  formerly  possessed 
by  her,  and  gave  her  for  the  first  time  a national  Synod. 
In  the  new  state  a majority  of  the  population  belonged 
to  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  but  the  government 
knew  how  to  maintain  in  its  legislation  the  ascend- 
ency of  Protestantism,  to  the  great  dissatisfaction  of  the 
southern  provinces,  which  revolted  in  1830,  and  consti- 
tuted the  independent  kingdom  of  Belgium  (q.  v.).  From 
that  time  Holland  again  became  a predominantly  Prot- 
estant state,  in  which,  however,  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  comprises  about  two  fifths  of  the  entire  popula- 
tion. Of  late,  an  almost  complete  separation  between 
Church  and  State  has  been  effected. 

II.  Church  Statistics.  — The  total  population  of  the 
kingdom  of  Holland  amounted  in  December.  1868,  ac- 
j cording  to  an  official  calculation,  to  3.G28.468.  This  is 
I exclusive  of  the  grand-duchv  of  Luxemburg  (q.  v.), 

| which  is  governed  by  the  king  of  Holland  as  grand- 
duke,  but  is  entirely  independent  from  Holland  in  point 
I of  administration.  A little  over  a majority  of  the  en- 


HOLLAND 


300 


HOLLAND 


tire  population,  according  to  the  official  census  taken  in 
1859, 1,8 18,327,  belong  to  the  National  Reformed  Church. 
The  present  constitution  of  this  Church,  which  almost 
makes  it  autonomous,  was  regulated  by  a law  of  March 
23,  1852.  The  Church  embraces  43  classes  in  10  pro- 
vincial districts.  A classis  consists  of  the  pastors  and  a 
number  of  the  elders,  but  the  number  of  the  latter  must 
not  exceed  the  number  of  the  pastors.  Each  classis 
meets  annually,  and  elects  a standing  committee,  which 
exercises  ecclesiastical  discipline.  The  General  Synod, 
which  meets  every  year  in  J une  at  the  Hague,  consists 
of  ten  pastors,  one  being  elected  by  each  of  the  provin- 
cial synods,  three  elders,  and  the  representatives  of  the 
three  theological  faculties  of  Leyden,  Utrecht,  and  Gro- 
ningen. To  these  are  added  delegates  appointed  by 
the  Commission  of  the  Reformed  Walloon  Churches 
(those  which  use  the  French  language),  and  by  the 
East  and  West  Indian  churches.  A Synodal  Commis- 
sion, consisting  of  the  president,  the  vice-president,  and 
the  secretary  of  the  Synod,  of  three  preachers  and  el- 
ders, and  one  professor  of  theology,  is  chosen  for  a period 
of  three  years.  The  number  of  parishes  in  1868  was 
1306,  which  were  administered  by  1559  pastors.  The 
Walloon  churches  were  seventeen  in  number,  with  twen- 
ty-five pastors,  and  a population  of  about  8000.  They 
are  placed  under  a special  commission  for  the  affairs  of 
the  Walloon  churches,  but  form  an  integral  part  of  the 
National  Reformed  Church.  Theological  faculties  rep- 
resenting this  Church  are  connected  with  the  state  uni- 
versities of  Leyden,  Utrecht,  and  Groningen,  and  the 
Athenrea  of  Deventer  and  Amsterdam.  The  famous 
theological  schools  of  Harderwyk  and  Franeker  (q.  v.) 
have  been  abolished. 

As  the  National  Reformed  Church  in  Holland,  in  the 
second  half  of  the  18th  and  in  the  present  century,  fell 
more  and  more  under  the  predominant  influence  of  ra- 
tionalism [for  the  doctrinal  history  of  the  Church,  see 
the  art.  Reformed  Church],  a number  of  the  leading 
defenders  of  the  ancient  creed  of  the  Church  deemed  it 
best  to  secede  from  the  National  Church,  and  to  organ- 
ize an  independent  Church  (De  afgescheul.  reform,  kerk). 
In  1868  this  Church  comprised  forty  classes  in  ten  prov- 
inces, with  200  ministers  and  308  congregations.  It  has 
a theological  school  at  Kampen,  with  fifty  to  sixty  stu- 
dents. Its  membership  belongs  chiefly  to  the  poorer 
classes  of  the  population,  and  numbers  about  95,000  souls. 
The  Remonstrants  and  followers  of  Arminius  (q.  v.)  have 
considerably  decreased  since  the  beginning  of  the  present 
century.  While  in  1809  they  still  numbered  thirty- 
four  congregations  and  forty  pastors,  they  had  in  1869 
only  twenty-one  congregations  and  twenty-six  preach- 
ers left.  They  regard  themselves  as. members  of  the 
Reformed  Church,  and  call  themselves  the  Remonstrant 
Reformed  Brotherhood.  They  have  been  supported 
since  1795  by  the  state,  and  their  pastors  are  educated 
at  the  Athenaeum  of  Amsterdam.  Their  Synod  meets 
annually,  alternating  between  Amsterdam  and  Rotter- 
dam. The  Lutherans  of  Holland  adopted  as  early  as 
1596  a constitution  similar  to  that  of  the  Reformed 
Church.  Like  them,  they  have  elective  pastors,  elders, 
and  deacons;  and  by  the  new  regulations  of  1858,  a 
Church  Council,  Synodal  Commission,  and  Synod,  as 
the  three  stages  of  ecclesiastical  representation.  Their 
Synod  likewise  meets  annually  at  the  1 1 ague.  The  pop- 
ldation  connected  with  the  Church  amounted  in  1859  to 
56,982 ; the  number  of  parishes  and  pastors  is  about  fifty ; 
the  number  of  classes  six.  They  have  a theological 
seminary  at  Amsterdam.  The  professors  of  this  semi- 
nary, as  well  as  the  pastors,  receive  salaries  from  the 
state.  The  Mennonites,  whose  origin  falls  into  the  time 
before  the  Reformation,  have  likewise  decreased  since 
the  beginning  of  the  present  century.  In  1809  they 
numbered  133  congregations  and  185  ministers;  in  1868, 

1 17  congregations  and  122  ministers.  They,  too,  have  a 
seminary  at  Amsterdam,  with  twenty-five  students  in 
1869.  Rationalism  largely  prevails  among  them.  The 
population  connected  with  their  congregations  number- 


ed in  1859,  41,564.  The  churches  are  self-supporting, 
and  independent  of  each  other.  The  Moravians  have 
two  churches  and  four  ministers.  The  Jews  in  1859 
numbered  63,890  souls. 

Among  the  religious  societies  of  Holland  the  follow- 
ing are  the  most  important : (1.)  The  Netherlands  Bible 
Society,  which  had  in  1867  a circulation  of  32,251  copies, 
and  an  income  of  $30,000.  (2.)  The  Sunday-school 

Union  had  in  1867  established  271  Sunday-schools  in 
ninety-five  different  places  ; they  had  together  1301 
teachers  and  24,400  children.  It  publishes  a weekly 
paper,  The  Christian  Family  Circle.  (3.)  The  Society 
for  Christian  National-school  Instruction  (established 
in  1860),  whose  design  is  the  establishment  throughout 
the  country  of  schools  in  which  a sound  Christian  edu- 
cation shall  be  given,  as  opposed  to  that  given  in  the 
national  schools.  Eighty  schools  had  in  1867  been  es- 
tablished in  different  parts  of  the  country  on  this  prin- 
ciple. The  income  of  the  society  was  about  $9000.  (4.) 
The  Netherleuids  Fvangelical  Protestant  Union,  estab- 
lished in  1853,  endeavors  to  “counteract  the  terrible 
power  of  Rome,  and  unbelief  prevailing  throughout  the 
country,  by  means  of  colporteurs  and  evangelists.”  The 
income  of  the  society  is  about  $1500.  (5.)  The  mission- 
ary societies  of  Holland  labor  exclusively  in  the  Dutch 
colonies,  and  in  the  neighboring  islands  of  the  Indian 
Archipelago.  * Great  open-air  missionary  gatherings  are 
now  held  every  year  in  Holland. 

Until  the  Reformation,  the  whole  of  modern  Hol- 
land belonged  to  the  diocese  of  Utrecht  (q.  v.).  In 
1559  this  see  was  made  an  archbishopric,  and  five  suf- 
fragan sees  were  erected — II aarlem,Middleburg,  Deven- 
ter, Lceuwarden,  and  Groningen.  The  success  of  the  Re- 
formed Church,  after  the  establishment  of  the  independ- 
ence of  Holland,  put  an  end  to  all  the  dioceses.  In  1583 
an  apostolical  vicariate  was  established  for  those  who 
continued  to  adhere  to  the  Church  of  Rome.  It  was  at 
first  administered  by  the  apostolical  nuncio  in  Brussels. 
At  the  beginning  of  the  17th  century  the  Dutch  mis- 
sion again  received  a resident  vicar  apostolic  at  Utrecht 
(who  was  to  supply  the  place  of  the  former  archbish- 
ops), and  five  provicars  at  the  former  episcopal  sees.  In 
1723  the  Jansenist  (q.  v.)  canons  of  Utrecht  elected  an 
archbishop;  in  1742  a Jansenist  bishop  was  elected  for 
Haarlem,  and  in  1755  another  for  Deventer.  All  these 
sees  are  still  extant,  but  the  number  of  parishes  and  the 
membership  have  decreased.  These  have  at  present 
(1870)  a population  of  about  4000  souls  in  twenty-five 
parishes.  After  the  establishment  of  the  United  King- 
dom of  the  Netherlands,  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in 
the  seven  old  provinces  was  divided  into  seven  arch- 
presbvteratcs,  who  were  placed  under  the  papal  nuncio 
at  the  Hague  as  “vice  superior  of  the  Dutch  mission,” 
while  the  apostolic  vicariates  of  Herzogenbusch,  Breda, 
and  Limburg  (1840)  were  erected  into  districts  which 
had  formerly  belonged  to  other  states.  On  March  7, 
1853,  Pius  IX  re-established  the  regular  hierarchy  by 
erecting  the  archbishopric  of  Utrecht,  and  the  four  bish- 
oprics of  Haarlem,  Breda,  Herzogenbusch,  and  Roere- 
monde.  The  Catholic  population  in  1862  numbered 
1,229,000  souls,  with  39  convents  of  monks  (containing 
815  members)  and  137  female  monasteries  (containing 
2188  members).  Among  the  monks  are  Jesuits,  Re- 
demptorists,  Dominicans,  Franciscans,  Carmelites,  and 
Norbertines.  Several  congregations  of  Sisters  of  Char- 
ity have  arisen  in  Holland. 

A complete  Church  History  of  Holland  has  been  pub- 
lished by  Glasius,  Geschiedeniss  der  christelijfo  fork  eu 
godsdienst  in  de  Nederlanden  (Leyden,  1833  sq.,  6 vols.). 
The  introduction  of  Christianity  into  the  Netherlands 
is  specially  treated  of  by  Diest  Lorgion  ( Gesch . ran  de 
invoering  des  christend.  in  Nederlanden  (Leuw.  1841), 
and  by  Prof.  Rovaards  {Gesch.  der  invoeriny  en  vestiging 
van  et  christend.  in  Nederl.  Utr.  1841 ; 3d  ed.  1844).  The 
latter  began  a Church  History  of  Holland  during  the 
Middle  Ages  (Gesch.  ran  et  gerestigde  Christendom  en  de 
chrisi.  fork  in  Nederlande  gedurende  de  midddetuwen, 


HOLLAND 


301 


IIOLLIN  GSHEAD 


Utr.  1849-53, 2 vols.),but  the  death  of  this  eminent  his- 
torian (1854)  prevented  the  completion  of  the  work.  A 
biographical  Church  History,  from  a Homan  Catholic 
stand-point,  was  begun  by  Albevdingk  Thijm  (Gesch. 
der  fork  in  de  Xederl.;  vol.  i,  11.  Willibrodns,  A postal 
der  Xederlanden,  Amsterd.  1861 ; Germ,  transl.  Munster, 
1863).  A work  of  great  ability  is  the  Church  History 
of  Holland  before  the  Reformation,  by  Moll  (Kerkege- 
schiedeniss  van  Xederland  voor  de  her  forming,  Amheirn, 
1864  sq.,  3 vols.).  See  Belgium.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Holland,  Guido,  an  English  Jesuit,  was  born  in 
Lincoln  about  1587.  He  was  educated  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Cambridge,  devoting  his  time  mainly  to  meta- 
physics. After  graduation  he  went  to  Spain,  and  here 
pursued  a course  in  theology.  In  1615  he  entered  the 
order  of  the  Jesuits,  and  was  sent  to  England  as  a Ro- 
man Catholic  missionary.  He  died  Nov.  26, 1660.  He 
wrote  a work  of  some  importance  on  the  immortality  of 
the  sold,  under  the  title  Prcerogativa  natures  humane e. — 
Jocher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1674. 

Holland,  John  M.,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minis- 
ter, born  in  Williamson  County,  Tenn.,  about  1803  or 
1804,  was  converted  in  early  life,  and  entered  the  min- 
istry in  1822.  After  holding  several  important  charges, 
he  was  appointed  presiding  elder  of  the  Cumberland 
District  in  1829.  Two  years  later  he  was  sent  to  Nash- 
ville, and  in  1832  was  reappointed  presiding  elder  over 
the  Forked  Deer  District,  transferred  in  1833  to  the  Mem- 
phis, and  in  1836  to  the  Florence  District.  In  1837  he 
was  selected  as  the  agent  of  La  Grange  College,  but 
in  1838  he  returned  to  the  active  work  of  the  minis- 
try as  presiding  elder  of  Holly  Springs  District,  in  Mis- 
sissippi. In  1839  he  was  once  more  chosen  agent  for 
a college — this  time  for  Holly  Springs  University;  but 
in  1840  he  again  returned  to  the  presiding  eldership, 
that  of  the  Memphis  District.  On  this  district  he  died 
in  1841.  Holland  was  one  of  the  most  able  and  useful 
servants  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church  in  his  day, 
and  is  generally  acknowledged  to  rank  foremost  among 
the  preachers  of  Tennessee.  — Sprague,  Annals  of  the 
American  Pulpit,  vii,  662. 

Holland,  Thomas,  a celebrated  English  divine, 
born  at  Ludlow,  in  Shropshire,  in  1539,  was  educated  at 
Exeter  College,  Oxford.  His  broad  and  thorough  schol- 
arship secured  him  the  regius  professorship  at  Oxford, 
and  in  this  station  “ he  distinguished  himself  so  much 
by  every  kind  of  desirable  attainment,  divine  or  human, 
that  he  was  esteemed  and  admired  not  only  in  our  sem- 
inaries of  learning  at  home,  but  also  in  the  universities 
abroad”  (Middleton,  Ev.  Eiog.  ii,  373  sq. ; compare  also 
Jocher,  Gc-lehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1674).  He  died  March  17, 1612. 
Holland  was  a zealous  Protestant,  and  labored  earnestly 
to  drive  from  Oxford  all  Papists  and  their  sympathizers, 
of  whom  it  had  not  a few  at  this  early  date  of  Protes- 
tantism in  England.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  most  of 
the  works  he  left,  and  these  were  few  indeed,  were  never 
printed.  Allibone  mentions  Oratio  Oxon.  (Oxford,  1599, 
4to)  and  Sermons  (ibid.  1601,  4to). 

Hollaz,  David,  a German  Lutheran  divine,  was 
born  at  Wulkow,  near  Stargard,  in  1648.  He  studied 
at  Wittenberg,  and  became  successively  pastor  of  Piit- 
zerkin,  near  Stargard,  in  1670,  co-rcctor  of  Stargard  in 
1680,  rector  and  preacher  of  Colberg,  and,  finally,  pro- 
vost and  pastor  of  Jakobshagen.  He  died  in  1713. 
Aside  from  minor  productions  on  different  subjects,  as 
sermons,  etc.,  he  wrote  a work  on  dogmatics  which  was 
long  in  great  favor.  It  is  entitled  Examen  theologicum 
acroamaticum  unirersam  theologiam  thefico-polemicam 
complectens  (1707,  4to ; reprinted  in  1717,  1722,  1725, 
1735,  and  1741 ; and,  with  additions  and  corrections,  by 
R.  Teller  in  1750  and  1763).  The  popularity  enjoyed 
by  this  work  was  not  so  mueh  due  to  its  scientific  orig- 
inality,  for  it  was  mainly  based  on  the  works  of  Ger-  | 
hard,  Calov,  Scherzer,  etc.,  as  to  its  convenient,  arrange- 
ment, the  clearness  and  precision  of  its  definitions,  and 
the  careful  and  thorough  classification  of  its  contents,  j 


Another,  and  perhaps  still  more  powerful  cause  of  its 
success  is  to  be  found  in  its  liberal  spirit,  coupled  with  un- 
impeachable orthodoxy.  I lollaz  occupies  the  first  place 
among  the  Lutheran  theologians  of  the  close  of  the  17th 
and  the  beginning  of  the  18th  century.  He  sought  to 
find  a medium  between  the  orthodox  scholastic  divin- 
ity and  the  wants  of  practical  religion,  and  endeavored 
to  reconcile  ecclesiastical  orthodoxy  with  freedom  of 
thought.  See  Ernesti,  X cue  Theol.  v,  185;  Walch,  Bill. 
Theol.  i,  62 ; Ersch  mul  ( Iruber,  A llg.  Encyklopiidie ; I ler- 
zog,  Real- Ency  klop.  vi,  240;  llagenbaeli,  Hist,  of  Doetr. 
ii,  263,  264,  339;  Gass,  Geschichte  d.  Dogmat.  ii,  495  sq. ; 
Kurtz,  Church.  Hist,  ii,  245;  Sclirdckh,  Kirchengesch.  s. 
d.  Ref.  viii,  16  sq. ; Dorner,  Gesch.  d.  Dogmat.  p.  430  sq. 

Hollebeck,  Ewald,  a Dutch  theologian,  born  at 
llamstede  in  1719,  was  educated  at  the  University  of 
Leyden.  In  1762  he  was  called  to  his  alma  mater  as 
professor  of  theology.  lie  is  especially  distinguished  in 
the  Church  of  Holland  by  his  revolutionary  efforts  in 
the  liomiletical  field  of  theology.  lie  was  the  first  to 
condemn  the  old  method  of  making  a sermon  an  exeget- 
ical  dissertation,  and  to  introduce  the  English  method 
of  preaching  to  the  edifi cation  of  the  people.  He  set 
forth  his  views  in  De  optimo  concionum  genere  (Leyden, 
1768;  much  enlarged,  1770,  8vo).  At.  first  he  encoun- 
tered great  opposition ; but,  as  he  bore  himself  calmly  in 
the  contest,  he  soon  got  the  better  of  his  opponents,  and, 
as  a mark  of  his  popularity  at  the  university,  lie  rvas 
elected  rector  in  1764.  He  died  Oct. 24, 1796. — Sclirdckh, 
Kirchengesch.  s.  d.  Reform,  viii,  653  sq. ; Walch,  Xeuest. 
Religioiisgesch.il, AU  sq.;  Ernesti,  U.  Theolog.  Biblioth.  i, 
230  sq. ; Adelung’s  Jocher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  2093;  Biog. 
Univ.  xx,  480. 

Holleshow,  Jouaxn  vox,  a Benedictine  monk, 
born  at  Holleshow,  in  Bohemia,  in  1366,  was  educated 
at  Paris.  He  was  one  of  the  most  violent  opponents  of 
Huss,  and  contributed  more  than  any  other  person  to 
his  execution.  This  explains  why  the  Hussites  after- 
wards (1420)  destroyed  the  monastery  to  which  Ilolles- 
how  belonged.  He  died  in  1436.  A list  of  his  works 
is  given  in  Adehmg’s  Jocher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  2098.  (J. 

II.  W.) 

Holley,  IIokace,  LL.D..  a Unitarian  minister,  was 
born  in  Salisbury,  Conn.,  Feb.  13,  1781;  graduated  at 
Yale  College  in  1803;  in  1805  was  minister  of  Greenfield 
Hill,  Fairfield,  and  in  1809  minister  of  Hollis  Street, 
Boston.  In  1818  lie  became  the  president  of  Transyl- 
vania University,  Lexington,  I\y.,  which  office  he  re- 
tained until  1827.  He  died  on  a voyage  to  New  York 
Jul}'  31,  1827.  He  had  great  reputation  as  a pulpit 
orator,  and  published  several  occasional  sermons  and 
addresses.  See  Memoir  of  I)r.  Holley,  by  his  Widow; 
Xorth  American  Review,  xxvii,  403 ; Allibone,  Diction- 
ary of  A uthors,  i,  866. 

Holliday,  Charles,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
born  in  Baltimore  Nov.  23, 1771,  was  licensed  to  preach 
| in  1797,  and  entered  the  itinerancy  in  1809.  He  was 
made  presiding  elder  on  Salt  River  District  in  1813;  lo- 
! cated  in  1816 ; was  again  presiding  elder  on  Cumberland 
! District,  Tennessee  Conference,  1817-21  ; on  Green  River 
District,  Kentucky  Conference,  1821-25;  and  on  Wabash 
District,  Illinois  Conference,  1825-28.  At  the  General 
Conference  of  1828  he  was  appointed  Book  Agent  at  Cin- 
cinnati, where  he  remained  eight  years.  After  this  lie 
was  for  several  years  presiding  elder  in  the  Illinois  Con- 
ference. He  was  superannuated  in  1846,  and  died 
51  arch  8, 1850.  Mr.  Holliday  was  a “ clear,  sound,  and 
practical  preacher,”  a deeply  pious  Christian,  and  amia- 
ble and  beloved  in  all  the  relations  of  life. — Minutes  of 


Hollingsliead,  William,  D.D.,  a Congregational 
minister,  bom  at  Philadelphia  Oct.  8, 1748.  was  educated 
at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  in  1770,  and  entered 
the  ministry  in  1772.  His  first  pastoral  charge  was  at 
Fairfield,  N.  J.  In  1783  he  accepted  a call  from  a church 


HOLLIS 


302 


HOLMES 


in  Charleston,  S.  C.  In  1793  Princeton  College  conferred 
on  him  the  degree  of  D.D.  He  died  Jan.  26,  1817.  He 
published  several  sermons  (1789, 1794, 1805). — Hprague, 
A nnals  of  A mer.  Pulpif,  ii,  58. 

Hollis,  Thomas,  Sr.,  one  of  the  early  benefactors 
of  Harvard  College,  was  born  in  London  in  1659.  His 
father,  though  a Baptist,  was  a member  of  the  Indepen- 
dent Chnreli  at  Pinner’s  Hall,  and  he  followed  in  the 
same  relation.  Having  accumulated  a fortune  in  trade, 
he  gave  large  sums  to  charity  and  to  advance  the  Bap- 
tist and  Independent  Churches.  Still  more  substantial 
marks  of  his  liberality  were  conferred  on  Harvard  Col- 
lege, Hass.,  in  which  he  founded  a professorship  of  math- 
ematics and  one  of  theology,  and  endowed  scholarships 
for  poor  students,  enriched  the  library  and  the  cabinets, 
etc.  He  died  in  London  in  1731.  See  Crosby,  Hist,  of 
the  Baptists , iv,  229;  Bogue  and  Bennett,  History  of  the 
Dissenters,  ii,  414;  Christian  Examiner,  vii,  64;  Skeats, 
Free  Churches  of  England,  p.  323. 

Hollis,  Thomas,  Jr.,  nephew  of  the  preceding,  was 
born  in  London  in  1720,  and  devoted  himself  to  literature 
and  to  the  propagation  of  the  principles  of  civil  and  re- 
ligious liberty.  He  travelled  over  the  Continent  from 
1748  to  1750,  and  then  settled  down  on  his  estate  at 
Corsecombe,  Dorset.  It  is  said  that  half  of  his  large  for- 
tune was  given  away  for  benevolent  purposes.  Among 
his  benefactions  was  a donation  of  books  to  the  library 
of  Harvard  College  to  the  value  of  £1400  sterling.  He 
died  at  Corsecombe  in  1774.  His  Memoirs  were  published 
in  1780,  in  two  splendid  quartos,  with  engravings.  See 
Gentl.  Mag.  vol.  lxxiv;  Allibone,  Diet,  of  A ufhors,  i,  866. 

Hollister,  Theorem  O.,  a Methodist  Episcopal 
minister,  was  born  in  1822  at  Sharon,  Conn.  He  was 
converted  in  early  life,  preached  under  the  presiding 
elder  in  the  state  of  New  York,  removed  to  Wisconsin, 
and  joined  the  Wisconsin  Conference  in  1853.  His  ap- 
pointments were:  Summit,  Fort  Atkinson,  Lake  Mills, 
Greenbu  di,  Sheboygan  Falls,  Fond  du  Lac  Station.  Fond 
du  Lac  District,  Oconomowoc,  Waukesha,  and  Hart  Prai- 
rie. “ He  was  truly  a laborer  in  God’s  harvest,  zealously 
affected  always  in  every  good  thing,  serving  the  Lord 
most  emphatically  with  all  his  heart,  and  soul,  and 
mind,  and  strength.”  Fie  died  at  Salem,  Wisconsin, 
March  13, 1869.  Hollister  was  a self-educated  man,  but 
good  native  talent,  a logical  mind,  and  vivid  imagination 
atoned  for  his  earlier  deficiency,  and  he  ranked  among 
the  first  in  his  Conference.  See  Min.  Ann.  Coif.  1869, 
p.  225. 

Hollman,  Samuel  Christian,  a distinguished  Ger- 
man theologian,  born  at  Stettin  Dec.  3,  1696,  was  edu- 
cated at  the  University  of  Wittenberg.  After  lecturing 
a short  time  at  the  universities  of  Greifswald  and  Jena, 
he  returned  in  1723  to  Wittenberg,  and  was  made  ad- 
junct professor  of  philosophy  in  1724.  Two  years  later 
he  was  promoted  to  an  extraordinary  professorship,  and 
in  1734  was  called  as  a regular  professor  to  the  Univer- 
sity of  Gottingen,  then  opening.  He  died  in  1787.  Heil- 
man devoted  his  time  mainly  to  philosophical  studies. 
He  was  at  first  an  opponent  of  Wolf’s  philosophy,  later 
an  admirer  of  it,  and  finally  became  an  Eclectic.  He 
wrote  text-books  in  metaphysics,  which  were  well  re- 
ceived, and  used  so  long  as  eclecticism  was  in  vogue  in 
Germany.  lie  was  also  active  in  awakening  an  inter- 
est in  his  contemporaries  for  the  study  of  the  natural 
sciences.  His  most  important  works  are : De  stupendo 
natures  mgsterio  animn  sibi  ipsi  ignota  (Greifs.  and  Wit- 
tenb.  1722-24,  4to) : — Commentatio  philos.  de  harmonia 
inter  animetm  et  corpus  preestahilita  (Wittenb.  1724, 4to) : 
— Apologia  Prceleetionum  in  X.  T.  Greec.  habitarum  (ibid. 
1727,  4to) : — Comm.  phil.  de  miraculis  et  genninis  eorun- 
dem  criteriis , etc.  (Frankf.  and  Lpz.  1727,  4to) : — Inst  it. 
philoss.  (Wittenberg,  1727, 2 vols.  8vo) : — Ueberzeu gender 

Vortrag  v.  Gott  u.  Schrift  (ibid.  1733, 8vo,  and  often) : 

Von  d.  menscld.  Erlvnntniss  it.  d.  Quell,  tier  Weltireisheit 
(ibid.  1737, 8vo) : — Inst  it.  pneuinatologiee  et  theologies  nat- 
uralis  (Gottingen,  1740,  Svo),  etc.  A list  of  his  works  is  , 


given  in  Jocher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  Adelung’s  Add.  ii,  2099  sq. 
See  Krug,  Philos.  Lex.  ii,  451  sq. 

Holm,  Peter,  Jr.,  a Danish  divine,  born  at  Mourn, 
Norway,  June  6, 1706,  was  educated  at  the  university  at 
Copenhagen,  and  afterwards  lectured  at  his  alma  mater. 
In  1738  he  was  appointed  professor  of  theology  and  phi- 
losophy, when,  in  addition  to  the  duties  of  his  chair,  he 
instructed  in  Greek  and  Hebrew,  and  assisted  in  the  revi- 
sion of  the  Danish  version  of  the  Bible.  In  1746  he  was 
promoted  to  a regular  professorship  of  theology.  He 
died  June  9, 1777.  His  writings,  which,  on  account  of 
his  excessive  labor  in  the  revision  of  the  Bible,  were  few 
in  number,  are  mainly  in  the  form  of  dissertations.  A 
list  of  them  may  be  found  in  Adelung’s  Addenda  ii.  to 
Jocher’s  Gelehrt.  Lex.  p.  2102.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Holm-TitEE  (grpivoQ,  ilex)  occurs  only  in  the  apoc- 
ryphal story  of  Susanna  (ver.  58).  The  passage  contains 
a characteristic  play  on  the  names  of  the  two  trees  men- 
tioned by  the  elders  in  their  evidence.  That  on  the 
mastich  (a \ivov  . . . dyytXoQ  a\iati  at)  will  be  noticed 
under  that  head.  See  Mastick.  That  on  the  holm- 
tree  (TTfiirov)  is : “ The  angel  of  God  waiteth  with  the 
sword  to  cut  thee  in  two”  ( iva  Trptaai  at).  For  the  his- 
torical significance  of  these  puns,  see  Susanna.  The 
Trpivoz  of  Theophrastus  (If ist.  Plant,  iii,  7,  § 3,  and  16, 
§ 1,  and  elsewhere)  and  Dioscorides  (i,  144)  denotes,  there 
can  be  no  doubt,  the  Quercus  coccifera,  or  the  Q.  pseudo - 
coccifera,  which  is  perhaps  not  specifically  distinct  from 
the  first-mentioned  oak.  The  ilex  of  the  Roman  writers 
was  applied  both  to  the  holm-oak  (Quercus  ilex),  and  to 
the  Q.  coccifera,  or  kermes  oak.  See  Pliny  (X.  II.  xvi, 
6).  For  the  oaks  of  Palestine,  see  a paper  by  Dr.  Hooker 
in  the  Transactions  of  the  Liniiacin  Society,  vol.  xxiii, 
pt.  ii,  p.  381-387. — Smith,  s.  v.  See  Oak. 

Holman,  David,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
born  in  Sutton,  Mass.,  Dec.  13,  1777.  He  entered  the 
sophomore  class  at  Brown  University  in  1800,  and  grad- 
uated in  1803.  He  studied  theology  with  his  brother, 
the  late  Rev.  Nathan  Holman,  of  Attleborough,  and  Rev. 
Dr.  Emmons,  of  Franklin,  commenced  preaching  in  Doug- 
lass, Mass.,  in  the  autumn  of  1807,  and  was  ordained  Oct. 
19,  1808.  He  continued  pastor  of  the  church  in  Doug- 
lass until  Aug.  17,  1842,  when  he  was  obliged  to  resign 
on  account  of  impaired  health.  “In  1*48  he  renewed 
his  labors  among  his  old  flocks,  and  continued  to  perform 
the  duties  of  a pastor  for  five  years.  Several  revivals  of 
religion  were  enjoyed  during  his  ministry,  as  the  resnlts 
of  which  more  than  200  were  added  to  the  Church.  He 
died  Nov.  16, 1866.  See  Congreg.  Quarterly,  ix,  208. 

Holman,  William,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minis- 
ter, was  born  April  20, 1790,  near  Shelby ville,  Ky.,  then 
in  Virginia.  He  joined  the  Church  in  1812 ; four  years 
later  he  entered  the  Ohio  Conference,  and  was  appoint- 
ed to  Limestone  Circuit.  In  1821  he  was  sent  to  the 
Newport  Circuit,  and  a year  later  was  appointed  to 
Frankfort,  the  capital  of  the  state.  Here  he  built  op  a 
fine  society,  and  remained  four  years.  He  next  went 
to  Danville  and  Harrodsburg,  where  he  labored  with 
equal  zeal  and  success.  After  serving  Lexington,  Russel- 
ville,  and  Alt.  Stirling  in  succession,  he  was  appointed  to 
Louisville,  where  he  succeeded  in  building  the  Brook 
Street  Church.  He  remained  in  this  city  “from  1833 
to  the  close  of  his  ministry,  except  two  years,  serving 
all  the  churches  either  as  pastor  or  presiding  elder.” 
During  the  war  he  separated  bis  connection  with  the 
“ M.  E.  Church  South,”  and,  espousing  the  Federal  cause, 
“ accepted  a post-chaplaincy,  to  the  arduous  duties  of 
which  he  addressed  himself  with  a faitlifidness  that  was 
really  surprising — visiting  hospitals,  and  administering 
to  the  sick  and  dying  night  and  day.”  He  died  Aug.  1, 
1867.  — Bedford,  History  of  Methodism  in  Kentucky,  ii, 
374  sq. 

Holmes,  Abiel,  D.D.,  a Congregational  minister, 
born  in  Woodstock,  Conn.,  Dec.  24,  1763,  was  educated 
at  Yale  College  (class  of  1783),  and  served  his  alma  rna- 
ter  as  tutor  a short  time.  He  became  pastor  in  Mid- 


HOLMES 


303 


IIOLOFERNES 


way,  Georgia,  Nov.  1785,  and  Jan.  25, 1792,  pastor  of  the  | 
First  Church,  Cambridge,  Mass.  When  the  increase  of 
new  theological  opinions  caused  a division  of  the  socie- 
ty, he  retained  his  connection  with  the  “ orthodox”  por- 
tion of  the  parish.  A colleague  having  been  settled 
with  him,  he  resigned  his  share  of  the  duties  Sept.  2d, 
1831,  and  passed  his  last  days  at  Cambridge,  lie  died 
June  4, 1837.  Dr.  llolmes  was  a director  of  the  Amer- 
ican Education  Society,  a member  of  the  Massachusetts 
Historical  Society,  and  of  several  other  well  known  as- 
sociations. The  University  of  Edinburgh  conferred  on 
him  the  degree  of  D.D.  in  1805.  He  published  Pro- 
ceedings of  a Council  at  the  Ordination  of  Her.  A hiel 
Holmes , at  Midway,  Georgia , with  the  Pastoral  Address 
(1787)  : — Life  of  President  Stiles  (1798,  8vo): — Memoir 
of  Stephen  Pannenius , of  Buda,  with  his  Latin  Poem 
translated ; also  Memoir  of  the  Moheagan  Indians : both 
published  in  vol.  ix,  Mass.  Hist.  Coll.  (1804)  : — Ameri- 
can Annals  (1805,  2 vols.  8vo): — Biographical  Memoir 
of  the  Her.  John  Lothropp,  in  Mass.  Gist.  Coll.  vol.  i,  2d 
series : — Historical  Sketch  of  the  English  T ranslations  of 
the  Bible  (1815)  : — Memoir  of  the  French  Protestants  who 
settled  in  Oxford,  Muss.,  in  1G8G,  printed  in  Mass.  Hist. 
Coll.  vol.  ii,  3d  series  (182G): — Annals  of  America  from 
the  Discovery  by  Columbus  in  1492  to  the  Year  182G  (1829, 
2d  edit.  2 vols.  8vo);  and  a large  number  of  occasional 
sermons  and  addresses. — Sprague,  Annals,  ii,  240 ; Allen, 
A merican  Biography  ; Duyckinck,  Cyclop,  of  American 
Literature,  i,  511  sq. ; Allibone,  Dictionary  of  Authors, 
i,8G8;  American  Almanac,  183G, p.  31 G. 

Holmes,  Robert,  D.D.,  an  English  divine,  born  in 
Hampshire  in  1749,  was  educated  at  New  College,  Ox- 
ford. lie  became  successively  rector  of  Staunton,  canon 
of  Salisbury,  and  finally  (1804)  dean  of  Winchester.  In 
1790  he  succeeded  Thomas  Warton  as  professor  of  po- 
etry at  Oxford.  He  died  at  Oxford  in  1805.  Holmes 
wrote  The  Resurrection  of  the.  Body  deduced  from  the 
Resurrection  of  Christ  (Oxf.  1777,  4to) : — On  the  Proph- 
ecies and  Testimony  of  John  the  Baptist,  and  the  parallel 
Prophecies  of  Jesus  Christ  (Bampton  Lectures  for  1782, 
Oxf.  1782,  8vo): — Four  tracts  on  the  Principles  of  Re- 
ligion as  a Test  of  Divine  A uthority ; on  the  Principles 
of  Redemption ; on  the  Angelical  Message  of  the  Virgin 
Mary ; and  on  the  Resurrection  of  the  Body,  with  a Dis- 
course on  Humility  (Oxf.  1788) ; etc.  But  his  principal 
work  was  the  collation  of  the  Septuagint.  “As  early  as 
1788  he  published  at  Oxford  proposals  for  a collation  of 
all  the  known  MSS.  of  the  Septuagint— a labor  which  had 
never  yet  been  undertaken  on  an  extensive  scale,  and  the 
want  of  which  had  long  been  felt  among  Biblical  schol- 
ars. Dr.  Holmes’s  undertaking  was  promoted  by  the 
delegates  of  the  Clarendon  Press.  In  addition  to  the 
learned  editor’s  own  labors,  literary  men  were  engaged 
in  different  parts  of  the  Continent  for  the.  business  of 
collation,  and  Dr.  Holmes  annually  published  an  ac- 
count of  the  progress  which  was  made”  (Kitto).  The 
book  of  Genesis,  successively  followed  by  the  other 
books  of  the  Pentateuch,  making  together  one  folio  vol- 
ume, with  one  title-page  and  one  general  preface,  was 
published  at  Oxford  in  1798.  From  this  preface  we 
learn  that  eleven  Greek  MSS.  in  uncial  letters,  and  more 
than  one  hundred  MSS.  in  cursive  writing  (containing 
either  the  whole  or  parts  of  the  Pentateuch),  were  col- 
lated for  this  edition,  of  which  the  text  was  a copy  of 
the  Roman  edition  of  1587  [that  of  Sixtus  V]  : the  devi- 
ations from  three  other  cardinal  editions  (the  Complu- 
tensian,  the  .Udine,  and  Grabe’s)  are  always  noted.  The 
quotations  found  in  the  works  of  the  Greek  fathers  are 
also  alleged,  and  likewise  the  various  readings  of  the  an- 
cient versions  made  from  the  Septuagint.  “ The  plan  of 
this  edition  thus  bore  a close  resemblance  to  what  had 
been  already  applied  by  Mill,  Wetstein,  and  Griesbach 
to  the  criticism  of  the  Greek  Testament,  and  the  execu- 
tion of  it  has  been  highly  commended  as  displaying  un- 
common industry  and  apparently  great  accuracy.”  It 
is  to  be  regretted  that  “the  learned  editor  died  in  the 
midst  of  this  honorable  labor;  but  shortly  before  his 


death  he  had  published  the  book  of  Daniel,  both  accord- 
ing to  the  Sept,  version  and  that  of  Thcodotion,  the  lat- 
ter only  having  been  printed  in  former  editions,  because 
the  translation  of  this  book  is  not  contained  in  the  com- 
mon MSS.,  and  was  unknown  till  it  was  printed  in  1772 
from  a MS.  belonging  to  cardinal  Cliigi"  (Kitto).  The 
work  was  continued  by  the  Rev.  J.  Parsons,  B.D.,  and 
completed  on  the  original  plan.  The  title  of  the  work 
is  Vetus  Testamentum  Grtecum , cum  variis  Lectionibus 
(Oxf.  1798-1804,  15  vols.  fob).  Tischendorf,  however, 
condemns  the  work  as  inaccurately  done  {Proleg.  to  ed. 
ol  Sept.  185(1,  p.  lii-lvi).  See  Chalmers,  Biographical 
Diet.;  Bp. Marsh,  Divinity  Lectures,  leot.  xii ; Lowndes, 
Brit.  Lib.  p.  28,  29;  Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  870; 
Darling,  Cyclopaedia  Bibliographica,  i,  1520;  Kitto,  Cy- 
clop. of  Bill.  Lit.  ii,  3 1 8.  (J.  11.  W.) 

Holmpatrick,  Council  of,  held  at  Ilolmpatrick, 
an  island  off  the  eastern  coast  of  Ireland,  in  1148,  by  the 
advice  of  the  pope,  Innocent  II,  to  consider  the  ques- 
tion of  granting  the  pall  to  the  archbishops  of  Armagh 
and  Cashel.  This  synod  was  attended  bv  fifteen  bish- 
ops and  two  hundred  priests.  The  council  lasted  four 
days,  the  first  three  of  which  were  occupied  with  ques- 
tions concerning  the  general  welfare  of  the  Church,  con- 
fining the  question  of  the  palls  to  the  last  day.  The 
residt  was  a formal  petition  to  pope  Eugenios  III  (who 
had  meanwhile  succeeded  Innocent),  which  Malachy 
O’Morgais,  a former  archbishop  of  Armagh,  was  com- 
missioned to  carry  to  Home,  in  favor  of  the  grant. — 
Todd,  Hist,  of  Ancient  Church  in  Ireland,  p.  113;  Lan- 
don’s  Manual  of  Councils,  p.  2G5,  2G6. 

Holocaust.  See  Sacrifice. 

Holofer'nes,  or,  rather,  Oloferxes  (’O Xocpipvtjc), 
a person  mentioned  only  in  the  Apocrypha  (Judith  ii,  4, 
etc.).  The  name  occurs  twice  in  Cappadocian  history, 
as  borne  by  the  brother  of  Ariarathes  I (B.C.  cir.  350), 
and  afterwards  by  a pretender  to  the  Cappadocian 
throne,  who  was  at  first  supported  and  afterwards  im- 
prisoned by  Demetrius  Sotcr  (B.C.  cir.  158).  The  ter- 
mination (Tissa phemes,  etc.)  points  to  a Persian  origin, 
but  the  meaning  of  tlie  word  is  uncertain. — Smith.  See 
Volkmar,  Einleitung  in  die  Apokryplien  (Tub.  18G0-3), 
i,  179  sq. ; Griitz,  Geschichte  der  Juden,  iv,  455.  Ac- 
cording to  the  account  in  the  book  of  Judith,  Nebuchad- 
nezzar, “king  of  Nineveh,”  having  resolved  to  “avenge 
himself  on  all  the  earth,”  appointed  Holofemes  general 
of  the  expedition  intended  lor  this  purpose,  consisting 
of  120,000  foot  and  12,000  horse.  Holofemes  marched 
westward  and  southward,  carrying  devastation  every- 
where lie  came,  destroying  harvests,  and  flocks,  and 
cities,  as  well  as  men,  old  an  1 young;  making  even  the 
“cities  of  the  sea-coast,”  which  had  submitted  to  him, 
feel  tlie  weight  of  bis  arm.  Having  reached  Esdradon, 
he  encamped  “between  Geba  and  Scvthopolis”  a whole 
month  to  collect  his  forces.  Tlie  Jews,  however,  re- 
solved to  resist  him,  and  fortified  all  the  mountain  pass- 
es. Dissuaded  by  Aeliior,  “captain  of  the  sons  of  Am- 
mon,” from  attacking  the  Jews,  he  resented  the  advice, 
and  delivered  Achior  into  the  hands  of  the  Jews  in  I’e- 
tliulia,  from  whom,  however,  he  met  with  a kind  recep- 
tion. Holofemes  proceeded  against  Bethulia  (q.  v.), 
where  he  was  brought  to  bay;  ar.d,  instead  of  attacking 
it,  seized  upon  two  wells  on  which  the  city  depended 
for  water,  and  sat  down  before  it  to  take  it  by  siege. 
While  here  he  fell  a victim  to  the  treachery  of  Judith, 
a beautiful  Jewish  widow,  who  artfully  managed  to  be 
brought  into  his  presence,  and  who.  by  playing  the 
hypocrite,  secured  his  favor  and  confidence.  Having 
invited  her  to  a banquet,  lie  drank  freely,  and,  having 
fallen  asleep,  fell  beneath  the  arm  of  his  lair  guest,  who 
cut  off  his  head  with  his  own  sword,  and  escaped  with 
her  bloody  trophy  to  her  own  people  in  Bethulia.  The 
Jews  immediately  fell  on  their  enemies,  who,  finding 
their  general  dead  in  his  tent,  fled  in  confusion.  Such 
is  tlie  story.  Is  is  scarcely  necessary  to  add  that  it  is 
wholly  imhistorical. — Kitto.  See  J udith. 


HOLOMERIANS 


304  HOLY  CATHOLIC  CHURCH 


Holomerian!?.  See  Spiritualism. 

Ho'lon  (Heb.  Choion',  “iVn  or  “|’Vn,  sandy),  the 
name  of  one  or  two  places. 

1.  (Sept.  ’HXwu,  ’QXiov,  etc.;  Vulg.  Jlolon,  Olon .) 
A city  in  the  mountains  of  Judah  (Josh.  xv.  51,  where 
it  is  mentioned  between  Goshen  and  Giloh) ; assign- 
ed to  the  Lcvites  (Josh,  xxi,  15,  where  it  is  mention- 
ed between  Eshtemoa  and  Debir) ; in  the  parallel  pas- 
sage (1  Chron.  vi,  58)  it  is  written  Hilex  (Heb.  Chi- 
len',  k|b*'ri;  Sept.  Nj/Xwf,  but  transposes  with  Jether; 
Vidg.  Ilelon).  De  Saulcy  is  inclined  to  identify  it  with 
the  village  Xuhhalin,  on  the  hills  (Bead  Sea,  i,  453, 
454)  west  of  Bethlehem,  or,  according  to  Dr.  Robinson 
(new  ed.  of  Researches,  iii,  284),  at  the  bottom  of  wady 
el-31usurr,  on  its  southern  side;  but  this  is  not  in  the 
same  group  of  towns  with  the  others,  which  all  lie  in 
the  south-west  part  of  the  mountain  district  (Keil,  Com- 
ment. ad  loc.).  The  position  seems  rather  to  correspond 
to  that  of  Beit  Amreh,  a large  ruined  village  on  a hill 
near  wady  el-Khulil,  north-west  of  Juttah,  on  the  road 
to  Hebron  (Robinson,  Researches,  ii,  629  and  note). 

2.  (Sept.  XfXwi',  Vulg.  Ilelon.)  A city  of  Moab  (Jer. 
xlviii,  21).  It  was  one  of  the  towns  of  the  Mishor,  the 
level  downs  (A.V.  “plain  country”)  east  of  Jordan,  and 
is  named  with  Jaliazah,  Dibon,  and  other  known  places; 
but  no  identification  of  it  has  yet  taken  place,  nor  does 
it  appear  in  the.  parallel  lists  of  Xumb.  xxxii  and  Josh, 
xiii. — Smith.  Perhaps  it  is  the  same  as  IIoroxaim  (q. 
v.). 

Holste  or  Holstenius,  Lucas,  bom  at  Hamburg 
in  1596,  was  educated  at  the  University  of  Leyden,  and 
ranks  as  one  of  the  first  scholars  of  his  time.  Failing 
to  secure  a professorship,  he  travelled  through  Italy, 
England,  and  other  countries,  and  settled  at  Paris,  where 
he  became  acquainted  with  the  distinguished  Jesuits 
Dupuy,  IUiresc,  and  other  learned  men  of  that  order, 
and  he  finally  became  a Roman  Catholic,  in  consequence, 
he  said,  of  his  careful  study  of  the  works  of  the  fathers, 
and  of  his  seeking  for  the  principle  of  unity  in  the 
Church  ; but  others  think  that  his  conversion  was 
wholly  due  to  his  association  with  the  Jesuits,  and  to 
his  desire  to  have  freer  access  to  the  libraries  of  France 
and  I taly ; and  some  even,  among  whom  is  Salmasius 
(see  31  oiler,  Cimbr.  Lit.  iii,  323),  ascribe  it  to  his  severe 
poverty  and  great  ambition.  Soon  after  his  conversion 
his  friends  introduced  hint  to  the  pope’s  nuncio,  cardinal 
Barberini,  nephew  of  Urban  VIII,  whom  he  accompa- 
nied to  Rome  in  1527.  He  lived  with  the  cardinal,  and 
became  liis  librarian.  Later,  he  was  promoted  canon  of 
St.  Peter’s,  and  finally  he  became  librarian  of  the  Vatican 
and  eonsultore  of  the  Congregation  of  the  Index.  lie 
was  sent  on  several  missions  to  Germany;  among  oth- 
ers, to  Innspruck,  to  receive  the  abjuration  of  queen 
Christina  of  Sweden.  He  was  also  instrumental  in  ef- 
fecting the  conversion  of  other  distinguished  Protestants 
to  Catholicism.  Holstenius,  even  in  his  eminent  posi- 
tions in  the  Church  of  Rome,  retained  some  of  the  lib- 
eral principles  imbibed  as  a Protestant,  and  they  often 
severely  provoked  his  Romish  friends.  Thus  he  advo- 
cated earnestly,  but  in  vain,  the  union  of  the  Greek  and 
Roman  churches  in  1639,  advising  liberal  action  on  the 
part  of  bis  own  Church.  In  the  Congregation  of  the 
Index  also,  he  would  never  favor  any  stringency  against 
valuable  works  of  Protestants,  and  lie  was  even  obliged 
to  retire  from  the  council  for  this  reason.  In  the  dis- 
pute between  the  Jansenists  and  3Iolinists,  he  counselled 
pope  Alexander  VII  against  any  decision  likely  to  be  in 
favor  of  the  Jesuits,  notwithstanding  his  relation  to 
them.  He  died  at  Rome  Feb.  2,  1661,  leaving  his  pa- 
tron, cardinal  Barberini,  his  universal  legatee.  Ilolste- 
nius,  with  much  application  and  a great  thirst  for  knowl- 
edge, lacked  perseverance.  He  was  apt  to  desert  one 
branch  of  study  suddenly  for  auother;  thus  he  had 
collected  with  great  care  and  much  application  a vast 
quantity  of  scarce  books  and  3ISS.,  but  had  not  pro- 
gressed sufficiently  far  in  his  own  works  to  make  them 


of  much  value  in  their  unfinished  state.  Among  his 
published  works  are  the  following:  Porphyrii  liber  de 
Vita  Pythagorce,  etc.  (ltom.  1630, 8vo ; Cambr.  1655, 8vo), 
with  a Latin  version  and  notes,  and  a dissertation  on 
the  life  and  writings  of  Porphyrins,  considered  a model 
of  learned  biography: — Demophili,  Bemocratis,  et  Sc- 
cundi  Veter  urn  Philosophorum  Sententice  Morales  (Rome, 
1638,  8vo;  Leyden,  1639,  12mo):  — Notes  in  Sallustiuvi 
Philosopkum  deBiis  et  Mundo  (Rome,  1638,  8vo) : — Ob- 
serrationes  ad  Apollonii  Rhcdii  Argonautica  (Leyden, 
1641, 8 vo) : — A rrianus  de  Venatione,  with  a Latin  version 
(Par.  1644, 8vo) : — Adnotationes  in  Geographiam  Sacram 
Caroli  u S.  Paulo,  Italiam  Antiquam  Cluverii,  et  The- 
sanrum  Geographicum  Ortelii  (Rome,  1666, 8vo) : — Notce 
et  Castigationes  Posthumce  in  Stepkani  Byzantini  de  Exh- 
ibits, edited  by  Ryckius : — Liber  Biurnus  Pontijicum  Ro- 
ma/iorum,  a collection  of  papal  acts  and  decrees.  He 
also  wrote  a collection  of  the  rules  of  the  earlier  monas- 
tic orders,  published  after  his  death  (Rome,  1661 ; later 
at  Paris;  and,  lastly,  much  enlarged,  Augsburg,  1759,  6 
vols.  fol.),  which  is  considered  as  among  the  most  valua- 
ble of  his  writings;  he  also  edited  in  his  lifetime  the 
Antiquities  of  Prceneste,  by  Suares.  31  any  of  his  Latin 
letters  have  also  been  published  in  the  Collectio  Romana 
reternm  aliquot  kistor.  eccles.  monumentorum,  etc.  See 
Wilkens,  Leben  d.  gelelirten  Luces  Ilolstenii  (Hamb.1723, 
8vo) ; English  Cyclop. ; Herzog,  Real-Lex.  vi,  241  sq. ; 
3Iosheim,  Eccles.  Histor.  vo 1.  iii  (see  Index);  Gieseler, 
Church  Hist,  iii,  185,  note;  Schrockh,  Kirchengeschichte 
s.  d.  Reform,  vii,  76 ; lloefer,  Now:.  Biog,  Gener.  xxv,  4 
sq. ; Dupin,  Biblioth.  Eccles.  (17th  century).  (J.  II.3U.) 

Holstein.  See  Sciileswig-Holstein. 

Holy.  See  Holiness. 

HOLY  of  Holies.  See  Tabernacle;  Temple. 

HOLY,  HOLY,  HOLY.  See  Trtsagion. 

Holy  Alliance,  a compact  formed  between  the 
sovereigns  of  Russia,  Austria,  and  Prussia,  in  1815,  for 
the  humane  and  liberal  administration  of  their  govern- 
ments. See  Herzog,  Real-Encyklopddie,  v,  669 ; Wing’s 
Ilase,  Ch.  Hist,  (see  Index);  Hurst’s  Ilagenbach,  IJist. 
Christ.  Church  in  1 Sth  and  1 9th  Cent,  ii,  342  sq. ; and  the 
references  in  Poole’s  Index,  s.  v.  See  Alliance,  IIolv. 

Holy  Ark.  See  Ark,  3. 

Holy  Ashes  are  called,  in  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church,  the  Church  of  England,  and  the  Protestant 
Episcopal  Church,  the  ashes  used  at  the  old  ceremonial 
in  Lent. — Eadie,  Eccles.  Cyclop,  p.  312.  See  Lent. 

Holy  Bible.  See  Bible. 

Holy-Bread  Skep  or  Maund  is  called,  in  the 
Roman  and  Anglican  Churches,  the  basket  used  for  the 
eulogia  (q.  v.). — Walcott,  Sac.  A rchceol.  p.  312. 

Holy  Candle,  Blessing  with  the.  Bishops  Lat- 
imer and  Tyndale  say  that  in  their  day  “dying  persons 
committed  their  souls  to  the  holy  candle,  and  that  the 
sign  of  the  Cross  was  made  over  the  dead  with  it,  ‘ there- 
by to  be  discharged  of  the  burden  of  sin,  or  to  drive 
away  devils,  or  to  put  away  dreams  and  phantasies.’  ” — 
Walcott,  Sac.  A rchceol.  p.  313.  Compare  the  use  of  ta- 
pers (holy  candles)  at  Candlemas.  See  Candle. 

Holy  Catholic  Church,  the  “congregation  of 
faithful  men  dispersed  throughout  the  whole  world.” 
•Some  persons  speak  of  this  Church  as  if  it  were  a visi- 
ble community,  comprising  all  Christians  as  its  mem- 
bers, as  having  existed  from  the  earliest  days,  and  as 
retaining  the  same  authority  which  it  formerly  had  to 
frame  and  promulgate  decrees.  The  opponents  of  such 
mews  maintain  that  no  proof  can  be  offered  “ that  there 
is  or  ever  was  any  one  community  on  earth  recognised, 
or  having  any  claim  to  be  recognised  as  the  universal 
Church,  bearing  rule  over  and  comprehending  all  partic- 
ular churches.  They  further  allege  that  no  accredited 
organ  exists  empowered  to  pronounce  its  decrees,  nor 
any  registry  of  those  decrees.  They  consider,  therefore, 
that  the  Catholic  Church  is  an  invisible  community 


HOLY  CITY 


305 


HOLY  GHOST 


(because  its  Head  is  so)  in  itself  and  regarded  as  a whole, 
though  visible  in  its  several  parts  to  those  of  its  members 
who  constitute  each  separate  part. — Eden.  See  Chuucii. 

Holy  City.  See  Jerusalem. 

Holy  Coat  of  Treves,  a relic  preserved  with  great 
reverence  in  the  cathedral  of  Treves,  in  the  southern 
part  of  France,  and  esteemed  as  one  of  the  greatest  treas- 
ures of  that  city.  The  priests  claim  that  it  was  the 
seamless  coat  of  our  Saviour,  and  that  it  was  discovered 
in  the  4th  century  by  the  empress  Helena  on  her  visit  to 
Palestine,  and  by  her  deposited  at  Treves.  The  Treves 


relics  were  concealed  from  the  Normans  in  the  9th  cen- 
tury in  crypts,  but  the  holy  coat  was  rediscovered  in 
1196.  It  was  solemnly  exhibited  again  to  the  public 
in  1512.  Multitudes  flocked  to  see  and  venerate  it,  and 
Leo  X appointed  an  exhibition  of  it  every  seven  years. 
The  Reformation  and  wars  prevented  the  regular  ob- 
servance of  this  great  religious  festival,  but  it  was  cel- 
ebrated in  1810,  and  was  attended  by  a concourse  of 
more  than  225,000  persons,  and  in  1844  by  still  greater 
multitudes.  Miraculous  cures  were  confidently  asserted 
to  be  performed  by  the  precious  relic.  The  exhibition 
of  the  holy  coat  in  1844  is  otherwise  memorable  for  the 
reaction  which  it  produced,  leading  to  the  secession  of 
Rouge  and  the  German  Catholics  from  the  Church  of 
Rome.  See  Gildemeister  and  Sybel,  Der  heil.  Rock  zu 
Trier  (1845). — Chambers,  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v. 

Holy  Cross.  See  Cross. 

Holy-Cross-Day.  See  Cross,  Exaltation  of 
the,  vol.  ii,  p.  581. 

IIOLY  CROSS,  Order  of.  See  Cross,  Holy,  Or- 
der OF. 

Holy  Day,  a day  set  apart  by  certain  churches  for 
the  commemoration  of  some  saint  or  some  remarkable 
particular  in  the  life  of  Christ.  It  has  been  a question  agi- 
tated by  divines  whether  it  be  proper  to  appoint  or  keep 
any  holy  days  (the  Sabbath  excepted).  The  advocates 
for  holy  days  suppose  that  they  have  a tendency  to  im- 
press the  minds  of  the  people  with  a greater  sense  of 
religion ; that  if  the  acquisitions  and  victories  of  men 
be  celebrated  with  the  highest  joy,  how  much  more 
those  events  which  relate  to  the  salvation  of  man,  such 
as  the  birth,  death,  and  resurrection  of  Christ,  etc.  On 
the  other  side,  it  is  observed  that,  if  holy  davs  had  been 
1Y. — U 


necessary  under  the  present  dispensation,  Jesus  Christ 
would  have  said  something  respecting  them,  whereas 
he  was  silent  about  them ; that  it  is  bringing  us  again 
into  that  bondage  to  ceremonial  laws  from  which  Christ 
freed  us;  that  it  is  a tacit  reflection  on  the  Head  of  the 
Church  in  not  appointing  them ; that  such  days,  on  the 
whole,  are  more  pernicious  than  useful  to  society,  as  they 
open  a door  for  indolence  and  profaneness ; yea,  that 
Scripture  speaks  against  such  days  (Gal.  iv,*9-ll).— 
Buck.  See  Feasts;  Festivals. 

Holy  Family  is  the  general  title,  in  the  language 
of  art,  of  the  various  representations  of  the  domestic  life 
of  the  Virgin  Mary  and  the  infant  Jesus  and  his  at- 
tendants. “ In  the  early  part  of  the  Middle  Ages,  when 
the  object  in  view  was  to  excite  devotion,  the  Virgin  and 
Child  were  usually  the  only  persons  represented.  At  a 
later  period,  Joseph,  Elizabeth,  St.  Anna  (the  mother  of 
the  Virgin),  and  John  the  Baptist  were  included.  Some 
of  the  old  German  painters  have  added  the  twelve  apos- 
tles as  children  and  playfellows  of  the  infant  Christ,  as 
well  as  their  mothers,  as  stated  in  the  legends.  The 
Italian  school,  with  its  fine  feeling  for  composition,  was 
the  first  to  recognise  how  many  figures  the  group  must 
comprise  if  the  interest  is  to  remain  undivided  and 
be  concentrated  on  one  figure,  whether  that  figure  he 
the  Madonna  or  the  Child.  Two  masters  are  pre-emi- 
nent in  this  species  of  representation — Leonardo  da  Vinci 
and  Raphael”  (Chambers).  Mrs.  Jameson  {Legends  of 
(he  Madonna,  p.252  sq.)  also  insists  on  drawing  a distinc- 
tion between  the  domestic  and  the  devotional  treatment. 
The  latter,  she  says,  is  a group  in  which  the  sacred  per- 
sonages are  placed  in  direct  relation  to  the  worshippers, 
and  their  supernatural  character  is  paramount  to  every 
other.  The  former,  a group  of  the  Ilolv  F amily  so  called, 
in  which  the  personages  are  placed  in  direct  relation  to 
each  other  by  some  link  of  action  or  sentiment  which 
| expresses  the  family  connection  between  them,  or  by 
, some  action  which  has  a dramatic  rather  than  a religious 
I significance. 

Holy  Father.  I.  “ The  first  person  of  the  Trinity 
was  represented  as  in  Daniel’s  vision,  vii,  9,  and  vested 
in  a cope,  and  wearing  a tiara.  It  was  contrary  to  our 
Lord’s  declaration  (John  vi,  46),  and  indefensible.” — 
Walcott,  Sac.  Archeeol.  p.  312.  II.  A title  of  the  pope 
(q.  v.). 

Holy  Fire,  a ceremony  in  the  Romish  Church,  ob- 
served on  Holy  Saturday  (q.  v.)  of  Easter,  with  especial 
pomp  at  Rome,  where  the  pope  himself  is  in  attendance. 
A light  is  kindled  by  sparks  struck  from  a flint,  to  com- 
memorate Christ — according  to  the  Missal — as  the  great 
corner-stone.  This  light  is  hailed  by  kneeling  ecclesi- 
astics saying  “Light  of  Christ”  ( Lumen  Christi),  all  the 
lights  in  the  chapel  having  been  previously  extinguish- 
ed, to  be  rekindled  at  the  new  fire.  In  the  Church  of 
the  Holy  Sepulchre  at  Jerusalem,  at  the  Easter  of  the 
Oriental  Church,  the  Holy  Fire  is  claimed  to  be  mirac- 
ulous. “ The  Greek  and  Armenian  clergy  combine  on 
this  occasion,  and  amidst,  processions,  solemnities,  an 
excited  multitude,  and  scenes  disgraceful  not  only  to  the 
name  of  religion,  but  to  human  nature,  the  expected 
fire  makes  its  appearance  from  within  an  apartment  in 
which  a Greek  and  an  Armenian  bishop  have  locked 
themselves.” — Chambers,  Cyclop,  x,  565. 

Holy  Font,  the  vessel  containing  the  baptismal 
water.  See  Font. 

Holy  Fridays,  Fridays  in  Ember-weeks  (q.  v.).— 
Walcott,  Sac.  A rchccol.  p.  312.  See  Friday. 

Holy  Gates.  See  Jubilee  (Roman  Catholic). 

Holy  Ghost  (irvtvya  iiyiov'),  the  third  person  in 
' the  Trinity,  proceeding  from  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
and  equal  with  them  in  power  and  glory  (see  Yth  Art. 
of  Religion.  Church  of  England,  and  lVth  of  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church).  For  the  significations  of  the  orig- 
inal words  rendered  in  the  English  version  by  “ Spirit,” 
u Holy  Spirit,”  “ Holy  Ghost,”  see  Spirit.  The  Scrip- 


HOLY  GHOST 


306 


HOLY  GHOST 


tures  teach,  and  the  Church  maintains,  I.  the  Proces- 
sion; II.  the  Personality;  and,  III.  the  Divinity  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  For  the  offices  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  see 
Spirit,  Holy;  Paraclete;  Witness  of  the  Holy 
Spirit. 

I.  Procession  of  the  Holy  Ghost. — The  orthodox  doc-  I 
trine  is,  that  as  Christ  is  God  by  an  eternal  filiation,  so 
the  Holy  Ghost  is  God  by  an  eternal  procession.  He 
proceedeth  from  the  Father  and  from  the  Son.  “ When 
the  Comforter  is  come,  whom  I will  send  you  from  the 
Father,  even  the  Spirit  of  truth,  which  proceedeth  from 
the  Father,  he  shall  testify  of  me”  (John  xv,  2G).  He 
is  the  Spirit  of  the  Father,  he  is  the  Spirit  of  the  Son  : 
he  is  sent  by  the  Father,  he  is  sent  by  the  Son.  The 
Father  is  never  sent  by  the  Son,  but  the  Father  sendeth 
the  Son ; neither  the  Father  nor  the  Son  is  ever  sent  by 
the  1 Ioly  Ghost,  but  he  is  sent  by  both.  The  Nicene  1 
Creed  teaches,  “And  I believe  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  the 
Lord  and  Giver  of  life,  who  proceedeth  from  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  who  with  the  Father  and  the  Son  together 
is  worshipped  and  glorified.”  The  Athanasian  Creed, 
“The  Holy  Ghost  is  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son,  nei- 
ther made,  nor  created,  nor  begotten,  but  proceeding .” 
The  article  of  the  Church  of  England  says,  “ The  Holy 
Ghost, proceeding  from  the  Father  and  the  Son,  is  of  one 
substance,  majesty,  and  glory  with  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  very  and  eternal  God.”  The  term  spiration  was 
introduced  by  the  Latin  Church  to  denote  the  manner 
of  the  procession.  When  our  Lord  imparted  the  Holy 
Ghost  to  his  disciples,  “he  breathed  on  them,  and  said, 
Receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost”  (John  xx,  22). 

During  the  first  three  centuries  there  was  nothing 
decided  by  ecclesiastical  authority  respecting  the  rela- 
tions of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  the  Father  and  the  Son.  The 
Nicene  Creed  (A.D.  325)  declared  only  that  “ the  Holy 
Ghost  proceedeth  from  the  Father”  (itc  tov  Tlarpog  tic- 
iroptvopfvov'),  and  the  Greek  fathers  generally  adhered 
to  this  view : so  Basil,  Gregory  of  Nazianzus,  Cyril  of 
Alexandria,  and  others.  Epiphanius  added  to  the  for- 
mula, U tov  JJarpog  tKTroptvoptvov,  the  explanatory 
clause,  Ik  tov  Yiou  Xapfidvov  (John  xvi,  15).  John  of 
Damascus  represents  the  Spirit  as  proceeding  from  the 
Father  through  the  Son,  as  Novation  had  done  before 
him,  relying  on  John  xv,  26.  With  this  modification, 
the  formula  adopted  at  the  Council  of  Constantinople 
(A.D.  381),  and  appended  to  the  Nicene  Creed,  was  re- 
tained in  the  Greek  Church. 

“ But  there  were  many  in  the  Latin  Church  who  main- 
tained that  the  Holy  Spirit  did  not  proceed  from  the 
Father  only,  but  also  from  the  Son.  They  appealed  to 
John  xvi,  13,  and  to  the  texts  where  the  Holy  Spirit 
is  called  the  Spirit  of  Christ,  e.  g.  Horn,  viii,  9 sq.  To 
this  doctrine  the  Greeks  were  for  the  most  part  opposed. 
It  prevailed,  however,  more  and  more  in  the  Latin 
Church  ; and  when,  in  the  fifth  and  sixth  centuries,  the 
Arians,  who  then  prevailed  very  much  in  Spain,  urged 
it  as  an  argument  against  the  equality  of  Christ  with 
the  Father,  that  the  Holy  Spirit  proceeded  from  the  Fa- 
ther only,  and  not  from  the  Son,  the  Catholic  churches 
of  that  region  began  to  hold  more  decidedly  that  the 
Holy  Spirit  proceeded  from  both  ( ab  utroqne),  and  to  in- 
sert the  adjunct  Filioque  after  Poire  in  the  Symbolum 
Nicceno-Constaniinopolitanum.  In  this  the  churches  of 
Spain  were  followed,  first  by  those  of  France,  and  at  a 
later  period  by  nearly  all  the  Western  churches.  But 
as  the  Eastern  Church  still  adhered  substantially  to  the 
more  ancient  formula,  it  accused  the  Western  Church 
of  falsifying  the  Nicene  symbol;  and  thus  at  different 
periods,  and  especially  in  the  7th  and  9th  centuries,  vio- 
lent controversies  arose  between  them”  (Knapp,  Theolo- 
gy, § 43;  Hey,  Lectures  on  Divinity,  vol.  i).  The  true 
causes  of  these  dissensions  were,  however,  Arerv  different 
from  those  which  were  alleged,  and  less  animated,  it 
seems,  by  zeal  for  the  truth  than  by  the  mutual  jeal- 
ousies of  the  Roman  and  Byzantine  bishops.  But,  how- 
ever uncertain  the  reason  that  provoked  these  disputes, 
they  terminated  in  the  11th  century  in  an  entire  separa- 


tion of  the  Eastern  and  Western  churches,  continuing 
to  the  present  time.  The  addition  of  the  word  Jilioque 
to  the  creed  of  the  Western  Church  first  appears  in  the 
acts  of  the  Synod  of  Braga  (A.D.  412),  and  in  the  third 
Council  of  Toledo  (A.D.  589).  See  Procter,  On  Common 
Prayer,  p.  234 ; Ilarvev,  History  of  the  Three  Creeds,  p. 
452 ; and  the  article  Filioque. 

The  scriptural  argument  for  the  procession  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  is  thus  stated  by  bishop  Pearson:  “Now 
the  procession  of  the  Spirit,  in  reference  to  the  Father, 
is  delivered  expressly  in  relation  to  the  Son,  and  is  con- 
tained virtually  in  the  Scriptures.  1.  It  is  expressly 
said  that  the  IIolv  Ghost  proceedeth  from  the  Father, 
as  our  Saviour  testifieth,  ‘ When  the  Comforter  is  come, 
whom  I will  send  unto  you  from  the  Father,  even  the 
Spirit  of  truth,  which  proceedeth  from  the  Father,  he 
shall  testify  of  me’  (John  xv,  26).  This  is  also  evident 
from  what  has  already  been  asserted ; for  inasmuch  as  the 
Father  and  the  Spirit  are  the  same  God,  and,  being  thus 
the  same  in  the  unity  of  the  nature  of  God,  are  yet  dis- 
tinct in  the  personality,  one  of  them  must  have  the 
same  nature  from  the  other;  and  because  the  Father 
hath  already  been  shown  to  have  it  from  none,  it  follow- 
eth  that  the  Spirit  hath  it  from  him.  2.  Though  it  be 
not  expressly  spoken  in  the  Scripture  that  the  Holy 
Ghost  proceedeth  from  the  Father  and  the  Son,  yet  the 
substance  of  the  same  truth  is  virtually  contained  there ; 
because  those  very  expressions  which  are  spoken  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  in  relation  to  the  Father,  for  the  very  rea- 
son that  he  proceedeth  from  the  Father,  are  also  spoken 
of  the  same  Spirit  in  relation  to  the  Son,  therefore 
there  must  be  the  same  reason  presupposed  in  reference 
to  the  Son  which  is  expressed  in  reference  to  the  Fa- 
ther. Because  the  Spirit  proceedeth  from  the  Father, 
therefore  it  is  called  ‘ the  Spirit  of  God,’  and  ‘ the  Spirit 
of  the  Father.’  ‘It  is  not  ye  that  speak, but  the  Spirit 
of  your  Father  which  speaketh  in  you ’ (Matt,  x,  20). 
For  by  the  language  of  the  apostle,  ‘ the  Spirit  of  God’ 
is  the  Spirit  which  is  of  God,  saying,  ‘ The  things  of 
God  knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of  God ; and  we 
have  received  not  the  spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  Spirit 
which  is  of  God’  (1  Cor.  ii,  11, 12).  Now  the  same  Spir- 
it is  also  called  ‘the  Spirit  of  the  Son:’  for  ‘because  we 
are  sons,  God  hath  sent  forth  the  Spirit  of  his  Son  into 
our  hearts’  (Gal.  iv,  6).  ‘ The  Spirit  of  Christ :’  ‘ Now 

if  any  man  have  not  the  Spirit  of  Christ,  he  is  none  of 
his’  (Rom.  viii,  9);  ‘Even  the  Spirit  of  Christ  which 
was  in  the  prophets’  (1  Pet.  i,  11).  ‘ The  Spirit  of  Jesus 
Christ,’  as  the  apostle  speaks : ‘ I know  that  this  shall 
turn  to  my  salvation  through  your  prayer,  and  the  sup- 
ply of  the  Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ’  (Phil,  i,  19).  If,  then, 
the  Holy  Ghost  be  called  ‘ the  Spirit  of  the  Father’  be- 
cause he  proceedeth  from  the  Father,  it  followeth  that, 
being  called  also  ‘the  Spirit  of  the  Son,’  he  proceedeth 
also  from  the  Son.  Again : because  the  Holy  Ghost 
proceedeth  from  the  Father,  he  is  therefore  sent  by  the 
Father,  as  from  him  who  hath,  by  the  original  commu- 
nication, a right  of  mission ; as,  ‘ the  Comforter,  which 
is  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  the  Father  will  send’  (John 
xiv,  26).  But  the  same  Spirit  which  is  sent  by  the  Fa- 
ther, is  also  sent  by  the  Son,  as  he  saith,  ‘ When  the 
Comforter  is  come,  whom  I will  send  unto  you.’  There- 
fore the  Son  hath  the  same  right  of  mission  with  the 
Father,  and  consequently  must  be  acknowledged  to  have 
communicated  the  same  essence.  The  Father  is  never 
sent  by  the  Son.  because  he  received  not  the  Godhead 
from  him;  but  the  Father  sendeth  the  Son, because  he 
communicated  the  Godhead  to  him : in  the  same  man- 
ner, neither  the  Father  nor  the  Son  is  ever  sent  by  the 
Holy  Spirit,  because  neither  of  them  received  the  divine 
nature  from  the  Spirit;  hut  both  the  Father  and  the 
Son  send  the  Holy  Ghost,  because  the  divine  nature, 
common  to  the  Father  and  the  Son,  was  communicated 
by  them  both  to  the  Holy  Ghost.  As,  therefore,  the 
Scriptures  declare  expressly  that  the  Spirit  proceedeth 
from  the  Father,  so  do  they  also  virtually  teach  that  he 
proceedeth  from  the  Son”  (Pearson,  On  the  Creed). 


HOLY  GHOST 


307 


HOLY  GHOST 


II.  Personality  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  — I.  Definition 
and  History  of  the  Doctrine. — A person  is  “a  thinking, 
intelligent  being  that  has  reason  and  reflection;”  “a 
singular,  snbsistent,  intellectual  being;”  “an  intelligent 
agent.”  As  personality  implies  thought,  reason,  reflec- 
tion, and  an  individual  existence,  distinct  from  that  of 
other  beings,  when  we  speak  of  the  personality  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  we  mean  his  distinct  and  individual  exist- 
ence as  an  intelligent  and  reflecting  being.  lie  is  rep- 
resented throughout  the  Scriptures  as  a personal  agent, 
and  the  earlier  Christian  writers  so  speak  of  him,  though 
without  any  aim  at  dogmatic  precision.  It  is  the  habit 
of  some  writers,  opposed  to  the  orthodox  doctrine,  to  as- 
sort that  not  only  was  the  doctrine  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
not  precisely  deflned  in  that  early  period,  but  that  it  was 
not  received.  “ On  the  contrary,  the  thorough  investi- 
gations of  recent  times  show  plainly  that  the  ante-Ni- 
cene  fathers,  with  the  exception  of  the  Monarch ians, 
and  perhaps  Lactantius,  agreed  in  the  two  fundamental 
points  that  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  sole  agent  in  the  appli- 
cation of  redemption,  is  a supernatural  divine  being, 
and  that  he  is  an  independent  person;  closely  allied  to 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  yet  liypostatically  different 
from  them  both”  (Schaff,  Ch.  History , i,  § 80).  The  first 
positive  and  dogmatic  denial  of  the  personality  and  de- 
ity of  the  Holy  Ghost  seems  to  have  been  made  by 
Arius,  who  applied  the  doctrine  of  subordination  here, 
and  placed  the  same  distance  between  the  Son  and  the 
Spirit  as  between  the  Father  and  the  Son.  According 
to  him,  the  Holy  Spirit  was  only  the  first  of  created  be- 
ings, brought  into  existence  by  the  Son  as  the  organ  of 
the  Father.  Later  anti-Trinitarians  represent  the  Holy 
Spirit  simply  as  an  operation  of  the  divine  mind,  as  the 
“ exerted  energy  of  God,”  or  as  an  attribute  only  of  the 
divine  activity. 

2.  Proof  of  the  Personality  of  the  Spirit . — “ The  Holy 
Spirit  is  represented  in  the  New  Testament  not  only  as 
different  from  the  Father  and  Son,  and  not  only  as  the 
personification  of  some  attribute  of  God , or  of  some  ef- 
fect which  he  has  produced,  but  as  a literal  person  (see 
Sender,  Disp.  Spiritum  Sanctum  rede  describi  personam). 
The  proof  of  this  is  thus  made  out  from  the  following 
texts:  (1.)  From  the  texts  John  xiv,  1C,  17,  2G;  xv,  26. 
The  Holy  Spirit  is  here  called  TrapdicXyTog,  not  com- 
forter, advocate,  nor  merely  teacher,  as  Erncsti  renders 
it,  but  helper,  assistant,  counsellor,  in  which  sense  it  is 
used  by  Philo,  when  he  says,  God  needs  no  7r«p«icXj;ro£ 
(monitor).  Of  the  Paracletus,  Christ  says  that  the  Fa- 
ther will  send  him  in  his  (Christ’s)  name  (i.  e.  in  his 
place)  to  iiistruet  his  disciples.  To  these  three  subjects 
similar  personal  predicates  arc  here  equally  applied,  and 
the  Paracletus  is  not  designated  by  the  abstract  word 
auxilium,  but  by  the  concrete  auxiliator ; so  that  we 
have  the  Father  who  sent  him,  the  Son  in  whose  place 
he  comes,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  who  is  sent.  1 lis  office 
is  to  carry  forward  the  great  work  of  teaching  and  sav- 
ing men  which  Christ  commenced,  and  to  be  to  the  dis- 
ciples of  Christ  what  Christ  himself  was  while  he  con- 
tinued upon  the  earth.  John  xv,  26,  When  the  Para- 
cletus shall  come,  whom  I will  send  to  you  from  the  Fa- 
ther (/  mean  the  Spirit  — i.  e.  teacher  — of  truth,  who 
proceeds  from  the  Father ),  he  will  instruct  you  further 
in  my  religion;  where  it  should  be  remarked  that  the 
phrase  tKTroptvtoQai  wapa  llarpoc  means  to  be  sent  or 
commissioned  by  the  Father.  (2.)  1 Cor.  xii,  4-11,  There 
are  various  gifts  (xapiopara),  but  there  is  one  and  the 
same  Spirit  (to  avrb  llvtv/ta),from  whom  they  all  pro- 
ceed. Here  the  xapiopara  are  clearly  distinguished 
from  the  Spirit,  who  is  the  author  of  them.  In  verse  5 
this  same  person  is  distinguished  from  Christ  (6  Kw- 
p wg),  and  in  ver.  6 from  b Oeog.  In  ver.  11  it  is  said 
all  these  (various  gifts)  worketh  one  and  the  self-same 
Spirit,  who  imparteth  to  every  man  his  own,  as  he  will 
(KaOibg  fiovXtrat).  (3.)  Those  texts  in  which  such  at- 
tributes and  works  are  ascribed  to  the  Holy  Spirit  as 
can  be  predicated  of  no  other  than  a personal  subject. 
In  John  xvi,  13  sq.,  he  is  said  to  ‘speak,’  to  ‘hear,’  to 


‘take,’  etc.  So  in  1 Cor.  ii,  10,  God  hath  revealed  the 
doctrines  of  Christianity  to  ns  by  his  Spirit  (the  wapa- 
uXijTog  before  mentioned,  who  was  sent  to  give  us  this 
more  perfect  instruction).  And  this  Spirit  searches 
(iptvvcf)  all  things,  even  the  most  secret  (Urine  purposes 
(jidOij  them;  comp.  Bom.  xi,  33  sq.j;  in  his  instruction, 
therefore,  we  may  safely  confide.  The  expressions,  the 
Holy  Spirit  speaks,  sends  any  one,  appoints  any  one  for 
a particular  purpose,  and  others,  which  occur  so  fre- 
quently in  the  Acts  and  elsewhere,  show  that  the  Holy 
Spirit  was  understood  by  the  early  Christians  to  be  a 
personed  agent  (Acts  xiii,  2,  4;  xx,  28;  xxi,  1!  sq.). 
(4.)  The  formula  of  baptism,  Matt,  xxviii,  10,  and  other 
similar  texts,  such  as  2 Cor.  xiii,  14,  where  Father,  Son, 
and  Holy  Ghost  are  mentioned  in  distinction  (ver.  35), 
may  now  be  used  in  proof  of  the  personality  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  since  the  other  texts  upon  which  the  meaning 
of  these  depends  have  already  been  cited.  From  all 
these  texts,  taken  together,  we  may  form  the  following 
result:  The  Holy  Spirit  is  represented  in  the  Bible  as  a 
personal  subject,  and,  as  such,  is  distinguished  from  t lie 
Father  and  the  Son.  In  relation  to  the  human  race,  he 
is  described  as  sent  and  commissioned  by  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  and  as  occupying  the  place  which  Christ, 
who  preceded  him,  held.  In  this  respect  he  depends  (to 
speak  after  the  manner  of  men)  upon  the  Father  (John 
xiv,  16)  and  upon  the  Son  (John  xiv,  16,  26;  also  xvi, 
14,  Ik  too  tpov  Xtj\f,s.Tai) ; and  in  this  sense  he  proceeds 
from  them  both,  or  is*  sent  by  them  both.  This  may 
be  expressed  more  literally  as  follows : The  great  work 
of  converting,  sanctifying,  and  saving  men,  which  the 
Father  commenced  through  the  Son,  will  be  carried  on 
by  the  Father  and  Son,  through  the  Holy  Spirit. 

“The  objectors  to  this  doctrine  frequently  say  that  the 
imaginative  Orientalists  were  accustomed  to  represent 
many  things  as  personal  subjects,  and  to  introduce  them 
as  speaking  and  acting,  which,  however,  they  themselves 
did  not  consider  as  persons,  and  did  not  intend  to  have 
so  considered  by  others;  and  to  this  Oriental  usage 
they  think  that  Christ  and  his  apostles  might  here,  as 
in  other  cases,  have  conformed.  But,  whenever  Christ 
and  his  apostles  spoke  in  figurative  language,  they  al- 
ways showed,  by  the  explanations  which  they  gave, 
that  they  did  not  intend  to  be  understood  literally.  But 
they  have  given  no  such  explanation  of  the  language 
which  they  employ  with  regard  to  the  Holy  Spirit.  We 
therefore  fairly  conclude  that  they  intended  that  their 
language  should  be  understood  literally,  otherwise  they 
would  have  led  their  readers  and  hearers  into  error,  aiul 
the  more  so  as  they  well  knew  that  their  readers  and 
hearers  were  accustomed  to  personifications”  (Knapp, 
Theology , § 39). 

The  scriptural  argument  is  thus  logically  developed 
by  Watson.  “1.  The  mode  of  the  subsistence  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  in  the  sacred  Trinity  proves  his  personality, 
lie  proceeds  from  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  cannot, 
therefore,  be  either.  To  say  that  an  attribute  proceeds 
and  comes  forth  would  be  a gross  absurdity.  2.  Many 
passages  of  Scripture  would  be  wholly  unintelligible, 
and  even  absurd,  unless  the  Holy  Ghost  is  allowed  to 
be  a person.  For  as  those  who  take  the  phrase  as  as- 
cribing no  more  than  a figurative  personality  to  an  at- 
tribute, make  that  attribute  to  be  the  energy  or  power 
of  God,  they  reduce  such  passages  as  the  following  to 
utter  unmeaningness ; ‘God  anointed  Jesus  with  the 
Holy  Ghost  and  with  power;’  that  is,  with  the  power 
of  God  and  with  power.  ‘That  ye  may  abound  in  hope 
through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost;’  that  is,  through 
the  power  of  power.  ‘ In  demonstration  of  the  Spirit 
and  of  power;’  that  is,  in  demonstration  of  power  and 
of  power.  3.  Personification  of  any  kind  is,  in  some 
passages  in  which  the  Holy  Ghost  is  spoken  of,  impos- 
sible. The  reality  which  this  figure  of  speech  is  said  to 
present  to  us  is  either  some  of  the  attributes  of  God,  or 
else  the  doctrine  of  the  Gospel.  Let  this  theory,  then, 
be  tried  upon  the  following  passages:  ‘He  shall  not 
speak  of  himself;  but  whatsoever  he  shall  hear,  that 


HOLY  GHOST 


308 


HOLY  GHOST 


shall  he.  speak.’  What  attribute  of  God  can  here  be 
personified  V And  if  the  doctrine  of  the  Gospel  be  ar- 
rayed with  personal  attributes,  where  is  there  an  in- 
stance of  so  monstrous  a prosopopoeia  as  this  passage 
would  exhibit?  the  doctrine  of  the  Gospel  not  speaking 
‘of  himself,’  but  speaking  ‘whatsoever  he  shall  hear!’ 
‘The  Spirit  rnaketh  intercession  for  us.’  What  attri- 
bute is  capable  of  interceding,  or  how  can  the  doctrine 
of  the  Gospel  intercede?  Personification,  too,  is  the 
language  of  poetry,  and  takes  place  naturally  only  in 
excited  and  elevated  discourse  ; but  if  the  Iloly  Spirit 
be  a personification,  we  find  it  in  the  ordinary  and  cool 
strain  of  mere  narration  and  argumentative  discourse  in 
the  New  Testament,  and  in  the  most  incidental  conver- 
sations. ‘Have  ye  received  the  Holy  Ghost  since  ye 
believed?  We  have  not  so  much  as  heard  whether 
there  be  any  Holy  Ghost.’  Ilow  impossible  is  it  here 
to  extort,  by  any  process  whatever,  even  the  shadow  of 
a personification  of  either  any  attribute  of  God,  or  of  the 
doctrine  of  the  Gospel ! So  again : ‘ The  Spirit  said 
unto  Philip,  Go  near,  and  join  thyself  to  this  chariot.’ 
Could  it  be  any  attribute  of  God  which  said  this,  or 
could  it  be  the  doctrine  of  the  Gospel?  Finally,  that 
the  Iloly  Ghost  is  a person,  and  not  an  attribute,  is 
proved  by  the  use  of  masculine  pronouns  and  relatives 
in  the  Greek  of  the  New  Testament,  in  connection  with 
the  neuter  noun  Ilrtu/un,  Spirit,  and  also  by  many  dis- 
tinct personal  acts  being  ascribed  to  him,  as  ‘ to  come,’ 
‘to  go,’  ‘to  be  sent,’  ‘to  teach,’  ‘to  guide,’  ‘to  comfort.’ 
‘ to  make  intercession,’  ‘ to  bear  witness,’  ‘ to  give  gifts,’ 
‘ dividing  them  to  every  man  as  he  wilt,’  ‘ to  be  vexed,’ 
‘grieved,’  and  ‘quenched.’  These  cannot  be  applied  to 
the  mere  fiction  of  a person,  and  they  therefore  estab- 
lish the  Spirit’s  true  personality”  (Watson,  Theological 
Institutes,  i,  637  sq.). 

111.  Divinity  of  the  11  olg  Spirit. — 1.  The  same  argu- 
ments that  prove  the  personality  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  go 
also,  to  a certain  extent,  to  establish  his  divinity.  The 
direct  scriptural  argument  may  be  thus  summed  up : (</.) 
Names  proper  only  to  the  Most  High  God  are  ascribed 
to  him;  as  Jehovah  (Acts  xxviii,25, with  Isa.  vi, 9;  and 
Heb. iii, 7, 9, withExod. xvii,7;  Jer.  xxxi, 31,  34;  Ileb. 
x,  15,  16),  God  (Acts  v,  3,  4),  Lord  (2  Cor.  iii,  17,  19). 
“The  Lord,  the  Spirit.”  (5.)  Attributes  proper  only  to 
the  Most  High  God  are  ascribed  to  him ; as  omniscience 
(1  Cor.  ii,  10  11:  Isa.  xl,  13,  14),  omnipresence  (Psa. 
cxxxix,  7;  Eph.  ii,  17,  18;  Rom.  viii,  26,  27),  omnipo- 
tence (Luke  i,  35),  eternity  (Heb.  ix,  14).  (e.)  Divine 

%vorks  are  evidently  ascribed  to  him  (Gen.  ii,  2;  Job 
xxvi,  13;  Psa.  xxxii,  6;  civ,  30).  ( d .)  I Vorship,  proper 

only  to  God,  is  required  and  ascribed  to  him  (Isa.  vi,  3; 
Acts  xxviii,  25;  Rom.  ix,  1 ; Rev.  i,  4;  2 Cor.  xiii,  14; 
Matt,  xxviii,  19). 

2.  The  argument  for  the  personal  divinity  of  the  Spir- 
it is  developed  by  Watson  as  follows:  (l.)“Tlie  first 
argument  may  be  drawn  from  the  frequent  association, 
in  Scripture,  of  a Person  under  that  appellation  with 
two  other  Persons,  one  of  whom,  the  Father,  is  by  all 
acknowledged  to  be  divine;  and  the  ascription  to  each 
of  them,  or  to  the  three  in  union,  of  the  same  acts,  titles, 
and  authority,  with  worship  of  the  same  kind,  and,  for 
any  distinction  that  is  made,  of  an  equal  degree.  The 
manifestation  of  the  existence  and  divinity  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  may  be  expected  in  the  law  and  the  prophets, 
and  is,  in  fact,  to  be  traced  there  with  certainty.  The 
Spirit  is  represented  as  an  agent  in  creation,  ‘ moving 
upon  the  face  of  the  waters;’  and  it  forms  no  objection 
to  the  argument  that  creation  is  ascribed  to  the  Father, 
and  also  to  the  Son,  but  is  a great  confirmation  of  it. 
That  creation  should  be  effected  by  all  the  three  Persons 
of  the  Godhead,  though  acting  in  different  respects,  yet 
so  that  each  should  be  a Creator,  and,  therefore,  both  a 
Person  and  a divine  Person,  can  be  explained  only  by 
their  unity  in  one  essence.  On  every  other  hypothesis 
this  scriptural  fact  is  disallowed,  and  therefore  no  other 
hypothesis  can  be  true.  If  the  Spirit  of  God  be  a mere 
influence,  then  he  is  not  a Creator,  distinct  from  the  Fa- 


ther and  the  Son,  because  he  is  not  a Person;  but  this 
is  refuted  both  by  the  passage  just  quoted,  and  by  Psa. 
xxxiii,  6 : ‘ By  the  word  of  the  Lord  were  the  heavens 
made,  and  all  the  host  of  them  by  the  breath  (Hebrew, 
Spirit ) of  his  mouth.’  This  is  farther  confirmed  by  Job 
xxxiii,  4 : ‘ The  Spirit  of  God  hath  made  me,  and  the 
breath  of  the  Almighty  hath  given  me  life ;’  where  the 
second  clause  is  obviously  excgetic  of  the  former : and 
the  whole  text  proves  that,  in  the  patriarchal  age,  the 
followers  of  the  true  religion  ascribed  creation  to  the 
Spirit  as  well  as  to  the  Father,  and  that  one  of  his  ap- 
pellations was  ‘ the  Breath  of  the  Almighty.’  Did  such 
passages  stand  alone,  there  might,  indeed,  be  some  plau- 
sibility in  the  criticism  which  resolves  them  into  a per- 
sonification ; but,  connected  as  they  are  with  the  whole 
body  of  evidence,  as  to  the  concurring  doctrine  of  both 
Testaments,  they  are  inexpugnable.  Agam : If  the  per- 
sonality of  the  .Son  and  the  Spirit  be  allowed,  and  yet  it 
is  contended  that  they  were  but  instruments  in  creation, 
through  whom  the  creative  power  of  another  operated, 
but  which  creative  power  was  not  possessed  by  them  ; 
on  this  hypothesis,  too,  neither  the  Spirit  nor  the  Son 
can  be  said  to  create,  any  more  than  Moses  created  the 
serpent  into  which  his  rod  was  turned,  and  the  Scrip- 
tures are  again  contradicted.  To  this  association  of  the 
three  Persons  in  creative  acts  may  be  added  a like  asso- 
ciation in  acts  of  preservation,  which  has  been  well  call- 
ed a continued  creation,  and  by  that  term  is  expressed  in 
the  following  passage:  ‘These  wait  all  upon  thee,  that 
thou  mayest  give  them  their  meat  in  due  season.  Thou 
liidest  thy  face,  they  are  troubled;  thou  takest  away 
their  breath,  they  die,  and  return  to  dust : thou  sendest 
forth  thy  Spirit,  they  are  created;  and  thou  renewest 
the  face  of  the  earth’  (Psa.  civ,  27-30).  It  is  not  sureh’ 
here  meant  that  the  Spirit  by  which  the  generations  of 
animals  are  perpetuated  is  wind ; and  if  he  be  called  an 
attribute,  wisdom,  power,  or  both  united,  where  do  we 
read  of  such  attributes  being  ‘ sent,’  ‘ sent  forth  from 
God,’  * sent  forth  from’  God  to  ‘ create  and  renew  the 
face  of  the  earth  ?’ 

(2.)  “The  next  association  of  the  three  Persons  we 
find  in  the  inspiration  of  the  prophets:  ‘ God  spake  unto 
our  fathers  by  the  prophets,’  says  Faul  (Heb.  i,  1).  Pe- 
ter declares  that  these  ‘ holy  men  of  God  spake  as  they 
were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost’  (2  Pet.  i,  21) ; and  also 
that  it  was  ‘the  Spirit  of  Christ  which  was  in  them’  (I 
Pet.  i,  11).  We  may  defy  any  Socinian  to  interpret 
I these  three  passages  by  making  the  Spirit  an  influence 
I or  attribute,  and  thereby  reducing  the  term  Holy  Ghost 
into  a figure  of  speech.  ‘ God,’  in  the  first  passage,  is 
j unquestionably  God  the  Father;  and  the  ‘holy  men  of 
God,’  the  prophets,  would  then,  according  to  this  view, 
be  moved  by  the  influence  of  the  Father;  but  the  influ- 
ence, according  to  the  third  passage,  which  was  the 
source  of  their  inspiration,  was  the  Spirit  or  the  influ- 
ence of  ‘ Christ.’  Thus  the  passages  contradict  each  oth- 
er. Allow  the  Trinity  in  unity,  and  you  have  no  diffi- 
culty in  calling  the  Spirit,  the  Spirit  of  the  Father,  and 
the  Spirit  of  the  Son,  or  the  Spirit  of  either;  but  if  the 
Spirit  be  an  influence,  that  influence  cannot  be  the  in- 
fluence of  two  persons,  one  of  them  God  and  the  other 
a creature.  Even  if  they  allowed  the  pre-existence  of 
Christ,  with  Arians,  these  passages  are  inexplicable  by 
the  Sociuians ; but,  denying  his  pre-existence,  they  have 
no  subterfuge  but  to  interpret  ‘ the  Spirit  of  Christ,’  the 
spirit  which  prophesied  of  Christ,  which  is  a purely  gra- 
tuitous paraphrase;  or  ‘ the  spirit  of  an  anointed  one,  or 
prophet:’  that  is,  the  prophet’s  own  spirit,  which  is  just 
as  gratuitous  and  as  unsupported  by  any  parallel  as  the 
former.  If,  however,  the  Holy  Ghost  be  the  Spirit  of 
the  Father  and  of  the  Son,  united  in  one  essence,  the 
passages  are  easily  harmonized.  In  conjunction  with 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  he  is  the  source  of  that  pro- 
phetic inspiration  under  which  the  prophets  spoke  and 
acted.  So  the  same  Spirit  which  raised  Christ  from 
the  dead  is  said  by  Peter  to  have  preached  by  Noah 
while  the  ark  was  preparing,  in  allusion  to  the  passage 


IIOLY  GHOST 


309 


IIOLY  GHOST 


‘ My  Spirit  shall  not  always  strive  (contend,  debate) 
with  man.’  This,  we  may  observe,  affords  an  eminent 
proof  that  the  writers  of  the  New  Testament  understood 
the  phrase  ‘the  Spirit  of  God,1  as  it  occurs  in  the  Old 
Tcstamen t,  personal!}/.  For,  whatever  may  be  the  full 
meaning  of  that  difficult  passage  in  Peter,  Christ  is 
clearly  declared  to  have  preached  by  the  Spirit  in  the 
days  of  Noah  ; that  is,  lie,  by  the  Spirit,  inspired  Noah 
to  preach.  If,  then,  the  apostles  understood  that  the 
Holy  Ghost  was  a Person,  a point  which  will  presently 
be  established,  we  have,  in  the  text  just  quoted  from 
the  book  of  Genesis,  a key  to  the  meaning  of  those  texts 
in  the  Old  Testament  where  the  phrases  ‘My  Spirit,1 
‘tin?  Spirit  of  God,"  and  ‘the  Spirit  of  the  Lord1  occur, 
and  inspired  authority  is  thus  afforded  us  to  interpret 
them  as  of  a Person;  and  if  of  a Person,  the  very  effort 
made  by  Socinians  to  deny  his  personality  itself  indi- 
cates that  that  Person  must,  from  the  lofty  titles  and 
works  ascribed  to  him,  be  inevitably  divine.  Such 
phrases  occur  in  many  passages  of  the  Hebrew  Scrip- 
tures; but  in  the  following  the  Spirit  is  also  eminently 
distinguished  from  two  other  Persons:  ‘And  now  the 
Lord  ( lod,  and  his  Spirit,  hath  sent  me1  (Isa.  xlviii,  16) ; 
or,  rendered  better,  ‘hath  sent  me  and  his  Spirit,1  both 
terms  being  in  the  accusative  case.  ‘ Seek  ye  out  of  the 
book  of  the  Lord, and  read;  for  my  mouth  it  hath  com- 
manded, and  his  Spirit  it  hath  gathered  them’  (Isa. 
xxxiv,  16).  ‘I  am  with  you,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts, 
according  to  the  word  that  I covenanted  with  you  when 
ye  came  out  of  Egypt,  so  my  Spirit  remaineth  among 
you:  fear  ye  not.  For  thus  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  1 
will  shake  all  nations,  and  the  Desire  of  all  nations  shall 
come1  (Hag.  ii,  4-7).  Here,  also,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
is  seen  collocated  with  the  Lord  of  hosts  and  the  Desire 
of  all  nations,  who  is  the  Messiah  [according  to  the  usu- 
al interpretation]. 

(3.)  “ Three  Persons,  and  three  only,  are  associated 
also,  both  in  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  as  objects  of 
supreme  worship,  and  form  the  one  divine  ‘ name.'  Thus 
the  fact  that,  in  the  vision  of  Isaiah,  the  Lord  of  hosts, 
who  spake  unto  the  prophet,  is,  in  Acts  xxviii,  25,  said 
to  be  the  Holy  Ghost,  while  John  declares  that  the  glo- 
ry which  Isaiah  saw  was  the  glory  of  Christ,  proves  in- 
disputably that  each  of  the  three  Persons  bears  this  au- 
gust appellation  ; it  gives  also  the  reason  for  the  three- 
fold repetition,  ‘Holy,  holy,  holy!1  and  it  exhibits  the 
prophet  and  the  very  seraphs  in  deep  and  awful  adora- 
tion before  the  Triune  Lord  of  hosts.  Both  the  prophet 
and  the  seraphim  were,  therefore,  worshippers  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  and  of  the  Son,  at  the  very  time  and  by  the 
very  acts  in  which  they  worshipped  the  Father.” 

3.  In  the  Apostolical  Benediction , “The  grace  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  love  of  God,  and  the  com- 
munion of  the  Holy  Spirit,  be  with  you  all,  Amen,”  the 
Holy  Ghost  is  acknowledged,  equally  with  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  “to  be  the  source  of  the  highest  spiritual 
blessings;  while  the  benediction  is,  from  its  specific 
character,  to  be  regarded  as  an  act  of  prayer  to  each  of 
the  three  Persons,  and  therefore  is  at  once  an  acknowl- 
edgment of  the  divinity  and  personality  of  each.  The 
same  remark  applies  to  Bev.i.4, 5:  ‘Grace  be  unto  you, 
and  peace,  from  him  which  was,  and  which  is,  and  which 
is  to  come;  and  from  the  seven  spirits  which  are  before 
his  throne1  (an  emblematical  reference,  probably,  to  the 
golden  branch  with  its  seven  lamps),  ‘and  from  Jesus 
Christ.1  The  style  of  this  book  sufficiently  accounts  for 
the  Holy  Spirit  being  called  ‘the  seven  spirits;’  but  no 
created  spirit  or  company  of  created  spirits  is  ever  spo- 
ken of  under  that  appellation;  and  the  place  assigned 
to  the  seven  spirits,  between  the  mention  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  indicates  with  certainty  that  one  of  the 
sacred  Three,  so  eminent,  and  so  exclusively  eminent  in 
both  dispensations,  is  intended. 

4.  “The  form  of  baptism  next  presents  itself  with 
demonstrative  evidence  on  the  two  points  before  us,  the 
personality  and  divinity  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  It  is  the  j 
form  of  covenant  by  which  the  sacred  Three  become  I 


our  one  or  only  God,  and  we  become  his  people:  ‘Go 
ye,  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in 
the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Ilolv 
Ghost.1  In  what  manner  is  this  text  to  be  disposed  of 
if  the  personality  of  the  Iloly  Ghost  is  denied?  Is 
the  form  of  baptism  to  be  so  understood  as  to  imply 
that  baptism  is  in  the  name  of  one  Cod , one  creature, 
and  one  attribute  I The  grossness  of  this  absurdity  re- 
futes it,  and  proves  that  here,  at  least,  there  can  be  no 
personification.  If  all  the  Three,  therefore,  are  persons, 
are  we  to  have  baptism  in  the  name  of  one  God  and  two 
creatures  l This  would  be  too  near  an  approach  to 
idolatry,  or,  rather,  it  would  be  idolatry  itself;  for,  con- 
sidering baptism  as  an  act  of  dedication  to  God,  the  ac- 
ceptance of  God  as  our  God,  on  our  part,  and  the  renun- 
ciation of  all  other  deities  and  all  other  religions,  what 
could  a heathen  convert  conceive  of  the  two  creatures 
so  distinguished  from  all  other  creatures  in  heaven  and 
in  earth,  and  so  associated  with  God  himself  as  to  form 
together  the  one  name,  to  which,  by  that  act,  he  was 
devoted,  and  which  he  was  henceforward  to  profess  and 
honor,  but  that  they  were  equally  divine,  unless  special 
care  was  taken  to  instruct  him  that  but  one  of  the  Three 
was  God,  and  the  two  others  but  creatures?  But  of 
this  care,  of  this  cautionary  instruction,  though  so  obvi- 
ously necessary  upon  this  theory,  no  single  instance  can 
be  given  in  all  the  writings  of  the  apostles.” 

5.  A further  argument  is  derived  from  the  fact  that 
the  Spirit  is  “the  subject  of  blasphemy : ‘The  blasphe- 
my against  the  Holy  Ghost  shall  not  be  forgiven  unto 
men’  (Matt,  xii,  31).  This  blasphemy  consisted  in  as- 
cribing his  miraculous  works  to  Satan;  and  that  he  is 
capable  of  being  blasphemed  proves  him  to  be  as  much 
a person  as  the  Son;  and  it  proves  him  to  be  divine, 
because  it  shows  that  he  may  be  sinned  against,  and  so 
sinned  against  that  the  blasphemer  shall  not  be  forgiven. 
A person  he  must  be,  or  he  could  not  be  blasphemed : a 
divine  person  he  must  be  to  constitute  this  blasphemy 
a sin  against  him  in  the  proper  sense,  and  of  so  malig- 
nant a kind  as  to  place  it  beyond  the  reach  of  mercy. 
He  is  called  God:  ‘Why  hath  Satan  filled  thine  heart 
to  lie  unto  the  Holy  Ghost?  Why  hast  thou  conceived 
this  in  thine  heart?  Thou  hast  not  lied  unto  men,  but 
unto  God’  (Acts  v,  3,  4).  Ananias  is  said  to  have  lied 
particularly  ‘unto  the  Holy  Ghost,1  because  the  apostles 
were  under  his  special  direction  in  establishing  the  tem- 
porary regulation  among  Christians  that  they  should 
have  all  things  in  common  : the  detection  of  the  crime 
itself  was  a demonstration  of  the  divinity  of  the  Spirit, 
because  it  showed  his  omniscience,  his  knowledge  of  the 
most  secret  acts”  (Watson,  Theof.  Institutes,  i.  620  sq.). 

See,  besides  the  works  already  cited,  Hawker,  Ser- 
mons on  the  Divinity  of  the  Holy  Chost  (Loud.  1704, 8vo) ; 
Owen,  Discourses  on  the  Spirit ; Pye  Smith,  On  the  Holy 
Ghost  (Loud.  1 S3 1 , 8 vo) ; Christum  Rerieir , xvii,  515  (on 
the  personality  of  the  Spirit) ; Ncander,  History  of  Doy- 
mas,  i,  171, 303 ; Neander,  Ch.  History , vol.  i,  ii ; Kahilis, 
Die  Lehre  vom  Heil.  Gtiste  (Leipsie,  1847, 8vo) ; Dewar, 
Personality , Divinity,  etc.,  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ( London, 
1848,  8vo)  ; Fritzsche,  De  Spiritu  Sancto  (Dalle,  1840) ; 
Buchsenschiitz,  Doctrine  de  V Esprit  de  Dieit  (Strasburg, 
1840);  llase,  Eranyel,  Doynuitik,  § 175;  Guvse,  God- 
head of  the  Holy  Spirit  (London,  1700,  12mo);  Pierce, 
Divinity  and  Personality  of  the  Spirit  (London,  1805, 
I2mo)  ; Ileber,  Personality  and  Office  of  the  Spirit 
(Bampton  Lecture,  1816);  Ffoulkes,  Din's,  in  Christen- 
dom, i,  70,  101  sq. ; Bickersteth,  Christ.  Stud.  Assist,  p. 
453;  Bull,  Trinity,  i,  135  sq.;  ii,  470  sq. : Wilson,  A post. 
Fathers ; Ba u iy  Doytnenyesch.  vol.  i,  ii ; Moused,  Rede  mp- 
tion,  p.  156  sq. ; Waterland,  1 1 "orks,  vol.  vi ; Ilcfclo.  Con- 
cilicnyesch.x ol.  i;  Milman,  Latin  Christ,  i,  08;  Burnet, 
.4  r tides  of  the  Christian  Faith,  see  Index:  Walcott,  Sa- 
cred Archer. cl. p. 312;  Wesley,  I fork?, i,  34  sq.;  Leiduer, 
Philosophy,  p.  00;  Stillingfleet,  IForfo,  vol.  i ; Smeaton, 

. I tenement,  p.  203,  206 ; Bethune,  Lect.  on  Catechism,  vol. 
ii,  see  Index;  Hagenbach,  Hist,  of  Doct.  i,  125,  258,  262, 
453 ; Stud.  u.  Krit.  1856,  ii,  298 ; 1867,  vol.  iii ; Mercers- 


HOLY  LEAGUE 


HOLY  GHOST,  ORDERS  OF  310 


burg  Rev.  Jan.  1867,  p.  464 ; Bib.  Sac.  1863,  p.  600,  877 ; 
1864,  p.  119;  Am.  Presb.  Rev.  April,  1863,  p.  336;  Chr. 
Rev.  xv,  115;  April,  1852,  art.  rv;  Bullet.  Theol.  i,  1868; 
Christian  Observer , vol.  xx ; Loud.  Quart.  Review,  April, 
1867,  lxiii,  257 ; Ev.  Ck.  Reg.  vol.  i;  Brit,  and  For.  Ev. 
Review,  April,  1869 ; Congreg.  Quart.  J uly,  1869 ; Baptist 
Quart.  Oct.  1869,  p.  498;  Christ.  Remembr.  July,  1853. 
See  Macedonians  ; Trinity  ; Socinianism. 

HOLY  G1IOST,  Blasphemy’  against  the.  See 
Blasphemy’. 

Holy  Gliost,  Orders  of.  1.  Order  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  di  Sassia  ( Order  of  the  Holy  Ghost  de  Montpel- 
lier), established  in  1178  by  Guido  of  Montpellier,  ac- 
cording to  the  rule  of  St.  Augustine  for  hospital  knights 
In  1204  the  order  obtained  the  Hospital  di  Sassia,  in 
Rome,  in  which  the  superior  of  the  order  took  liis  seat 
as  grand  master.  Henceforth  the  members  of  the  order 
were  divided  into  hospital  knights,  with  simple,  and 
into  regular  canons,  with  solemn  vows.  Pius  II  abol- 
ished the  knights  in  1459  in  Italy,  but  in  France  they 
survived.  Having  been  restored  in  1693,  the  order  was 
divided  into  the  degrees  of  Knights  of  Justice  and 
Grace,  Serving  Brothers  and  Oblates,  and  in  1700  was 
changed  into  regular  canons,  who  still  exist.  At  an 
early  period  in  the  history  of  the  order  a female  branch 


Regular  Canon  of  the  Order  of  Kun  of  the  Order  of  the 
the  Holy  Ghost.  Holy  Ghost. 


was  established.  2.  Sisters  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  of  Polig- 
ny,  established  in  1212.  and  still  continuing  in  France,  a 
branch  of  the  White  Sisters.  3.  Hospitallers  (brothers 
and  sisters)  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  France,  established  in 
1254  as  a secular  association,  and  connected  with  the 
Order  of  the  Holy  Ghost  di  Sassia.  The  sisters,  on  ac- 
count of  their  dress  commonly  called  the  White  Sisters, 
are  still  numerous;  they  are  devoted  to  the  nursing  of 
the  sick  and  the  poor,  and  to  the  education  of  young 
girls.  4.  Canons  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  probably  founded  in 
Lorraine  by  Jean  Herbert,  and  confirmed  in  1588  by 
Sixtus  Y,  are  devoted  to  instruction.  5.  The  Society 
of  Missionary  Priests  of  the  Holy  Ghost  was  founded  in 
1700  by  abbe  Dcsplaces  and  Vincent  le  Barbier  for  mis- 
sions, seminaries,  and  the  nursing  of  the  sick;  newly 
established  in  1805;  still  exists,  and  is  active  in  the  for- 
eign missionary  fields  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church. 

Holy  Grass  ( THerochloa  borealis),  a grass  about  a 
foot  high,  of  a brownish  glossy  lax  panicle,  found  in  the 
northern  parts  of  Europe,  has  a sweet  smell  like  that  of 
vernal  grass.  In  Iceland,  where  it  is  plentiful,  it  is  used 
for  scenting  apartments  and  clothes.  In  some  coun- 
tries it  is  strewed  on  the  floors  of  places  of  worship  on 
holy-days,  whence  its  name. — Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  392. 

Holy  Handkerchief.  “ It  is  said  that  one  of  the 


women  who  followed  Jesus  to  the  crucifixion  lent  him 
her  handkerchief  to  wipe  the  sweat  and  blood  from  his 
face,  and  that  the  impress  of  his  features  remained  upon 
it.  Of  course,  St.  Veronica  (q.  v.)  very  carefully  pre- 
served the  cloth,  and  it  is  now  at  Rome.  Jesus,  accord- 
ing to  tradition,  sent  another  handkerchief  to  Agbarus 
(q.  v.),  king  of  Edessa,  who  had  requested  a portrait  of 
him.  Veronica  is  only  a mythical  personage,  the  name 
being  a hybrid  compound  signifying  ‘ true  image.’  ” — 
Eadie,  Eccles.  Diet.  p.  303.  See  Christ,  Images  of. 

Holy  of  Holies.  See  Tabernacle  ; Temple. 
Holy,  Holy,  Holy.  See  Trisagion. 

Holy  Hours.  See  Hours,  Holy'. 

Holy  Innocents,  a festival  in  commemoration  of 
the  slaughter  of  infant  martyrs  (at  Bethlehem,  Matt,  ii, 
16),  of  which  the  Greek  menologv  and  Etliiopic  liturgy 
give  the  number  at  40,000,  is  alluded  to  by  the  early 
Christian  fathers,  especially  Irenaeus  and  Cyprian,  Ori- 
gen  and  Augustine,  as  of  memorial  observance.  In  the 
4th  century,  Priulentius  celebrates  it  in  the  hymn  “All 
hail,  ye  infant  Martyr-Flowers,”  and,  in  connection  with 
the  Epiphany,  also  Fulgentius,  in  his  homilies  for  the 
day.  St.  Bernard  also  alludes  to  them  : “ Stephen  was  a 
martyr  before  men,  John  before  angels,  but  these  before 
God,  confessing  Christ  by  dying,  not  by  speech,  and 
their  merit  is  known  only  to  God.”  Violet  was  used  on 
this  day  in  memory  of  the  sorrow  of  their  mothers,  and 
the  Te  Deum,  Alleluia,  and  doxologies  were  forbidden. 
In  England,  at  Norton  (Worcestershire),  “ a muffled  peal 
is  rung  to  commemorate  the  slaughter,  and  then  a peal 
of  joy  for  the  escape  of  the  infant  Christ ; a lialf-muffled 
peal  is  rung  at  Minetv,  Maisemore,  Leigh -on-Mendip, 
Wick,  Rissington,  and  Pattington.”  — Walcott,  Sacred 
Archceology,  p.  313.  See  Innocents. 

Holy  Land.  See  Palestine. 

Holy  League.  I.  The  name  given  to  an  offensive 
and  defensive  alliance  contracted  between  the  party  of 
the  Guises  in  France,  king  Philip  II  of  Spain,  the  pope, 
the  monks,  and  the  French  Parliament,  in  consequence 
of  the  edict  of  toleration  of  May  14, 1576.  The  object  of 
the  league  was  the  OY’erthrow  of  the  Huguenot  party  in 
France,  and  of  its  chief,  king  Henry  III,  whom  one  of 
the  Guises  was  to  succeed  on  the  throne.  Duke  Henry 
of  Guise  (surnamed  Le  Balafre)  was  the  head  of  the 
league.  In  order  to  avoid  the  danger,  Henry  joined  the 
anti-Protestant  movement  himself,  and  was  thus  led  to 
renew  the  persecutions  against  the  Huguenots.  The 
Avar  commenced  in  1577,  but  soon  ended  by  the  peace  of 
Bergerac.  When  the  duke  of  AlenQon  died  in  1584, 
leaving  Henry  of  Navarre,  a Protestant,  heir  presump- 
tive to  the  throne,  the  league  sprung  again  into  exist- 
ence under  the  influence  of  the  adherents  of  the  Guises, 
the  strict  Roman  Catholic  members  of  the  Parliament, 
the  fanatical  clergy,  and  the  idtra  conservative  party. 
The  states,  especially  the  sixteen  districts  of  Paris 
(whence  the  association  also  took  the  name  of  Ligue  des 
Seize),  took  an  active  part  in  it.  A treaty  Avas  finally 
concluded  with  Spain,  and  signed  at  the  castle  of  Join- 
A’ille  Jan.  3, 1585,  to  prevent  the  accession  of  Henry  of 
Navarre  to  the  throne.  The  contracting  parties  also 
pledged  themselves  to  the  total  uprooting  of  Protestant- 
ism in  France  and  the  Netherlands.  The  results  of  the 
league  soon  became  manifest  in  the  intolerant  edict  of 
Nemours  in  1585,  and  led  in  1587  to  the  Avar,  known  as 
the  Avar  of  the  three  llenrys.  (See  France,  a'oI.  iii,  p. 
642.)  Henry  III  having  caused  Henry  of  Guise  to  be 
murdered  at  Blois  in  1588,  his  brother,  the  duke  of  Mav- 
enne,  became  chief  of  the  league.  Henry  III  AA'as  in 
turn  murdered  near  Paris  in  1589,  and  the  war  continued 
until  the  abjuration  of  Henry  IV  in  1588.  The  pope 
having  absolved  him,  the  members  of  the  league  grad- 
ually joined  the  royal  standard,  and  the  party  ceased  to 
exist.  See  Mignet,  Hist,  de  la  Ligue  (Par.  1829, 5 A’ols.) ; 
Labitte,  De  la  Democratic  chez  les  Predicateurs  de  la 
Ligue  (Paris,  1841) ; Riddle,  Persec.  of  Popery,  i,  309  sq. ; 


HOLY  MORTAR 


311 


HOLY  WATER 


« De  Felice,  / list,  of  Protestantism  in  France  (Lond.  1853, 
12mo) ; Ranke,  History  of  Papacy  (see  Index) ; Wright, 
Ilist.  of  France,  i,  680  sq. ; Poujoulat,  Nouv.  Coll,  de  Me- 
moircs  pour  servir  d l1  hist,  de  France  (Paris,  1839, 4to,  1st 
series,  iv,  1 sq.)  : Pierer,  Universal- Lexikon,  x,  374.  See 
Guise,  House  of;  Huguenots. 

II.  Holy  League  of  Nuremberg,  Liga  Sancta, 
contracted  July  10, 1538,  by  the  emperor  Charles  V,  the 
archbishops  of  Mayence  and  Salzburg,  dukes  William 
and  Louis  of  Bavaria,  George  of  Saxony,  Erich  and 
Henry  of  Brunswick,  for  the  defence  of  the  Homan  Cath- 
olic faith  against  the  league  of  Smalcald  (q.  v.).  The 
treaty  was  concluded  for  eleven  years.  The  armies  of 
the  contracting  parties  were  to  be  dividecl  into  two  parts, 
respectively  commanded  by  duke  Louis  of  Bavaria  and 
duke  Henry  of  Brunswick.  The  truce  of  April  19, 1539, 
rendered,  however,  these  combinations  unnecessary. — 
Leo,  Universalgesch.  iii,  157  sq. ; Hardwick,  Church  His- 
tory during  the  Reformation , p.  63  sq. ; Kurtz,  Ch.  Hist, 
from  the  Reform,  p.  83 ; Pierer,  Universal-Lex.  x,  374. 

Holy  Mortar  is  the  “ mortar  used  in  cementing  al- 
tar stones,  and  made  with  holy  water.’’ — Eadie,  Fccles. 
Cyclop,  p.  314. 

Holy  Mother.  See  Mary,  Virgin. 

Holy  Mountain.  SeeHERMox;  Sinai;  Zion. 

Holy  Night,  the  night  before  Holy  Day,  is  the 
first  Sunday  in  Lent.  “ By  Theodulph’s  Chapters,  the 
previous  week  was  employed  in  shriving  penitents.” — 
Walcott,  Sacred  Archaeology,  p.  313. 

Holy  Office.  See  Ministry;  Inquisition. 

Holy  of  Holies.  See  Tabernacle  ; Temple. 

Holy  Oil,  a name  applied  in  the  4th  century  to  oil 
brought  to  Europe  from  Jerusalem.  “It  was  carried  in 
cotton  within  little  phials,  and  distributed  to  the  faith- 
ful at  a time  when  relics  were  sparingly  distributed.”  In 
Gregory  of  Tours’s  time,  oil  blessed  at  saints’  tombs  was 
very  general,  and  in  St.  Gregory’s  day  oil  taken  from 
lamps  which  burned  before  the  graves  of  martyrs  in  the 
Catacombs  was  called  “ holy  oil.”  “ Several  of  these  phi- 
als, which  Gregory  the  Great  gave  to  queen  Theodolin- 
da,  are  preserved  at  Monza.” — Walcott,  Sacred  A rchceol. 
p.313,314.  See  Ampulla;  Ciirism. 

Holy  Orders.  See  Ordination. 

Holy  Phial  or  Sainte  Ampoule,  Order  of, 
the  name  of  an  old  order  of  knighthood  in  France,  which 
was  composed  of  four  persons,  of  the  very  first  families 
in  the  province  of  Champagne,  and  were  styled  Barons 
de  la  Sainte  Ampoule.  At  the  coronation  of  the  French 
kings  they  were  hostages  to  the  dean,  priors,  and  chap- 
ter of  Khcims  until  the  return  of  the  holy  phial  in  which 
the  coronation  oil  was  kept,  and  which,  according  to 
the  legend,  was  brought  from  heaven  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
under  the  form  of  a dove,  and  put  into  the  hands  of  St. 
Remy  at  the  coronation  of  Clovis,  an  enormous  crowd 
having  prevented  the  messenger  from  bringing  in  time 
that  which  had  already  been  prepared.  The  knights 
of  this  order  were  only  knights  while  the  holy  phial  was 
used  at  the  coronation  service.  They  wore  as  a badge 
a cross  of  gold  enamelled  white,  cantoned  with  four 
fleur-de-lis,  and  on  the  cross  a dove  descending  with  a 
phial  in  its  beak,  and  a right  hand  receiving  it.— Cham- 
bers, Cyclop,  v,  393. 

Holy  Place.  See  Tabernacle  ; Temple. 

Holy  Places.  See  Hebron;  Jerusalem;  Mec- 
ca; Palestine,  etc. 

Holy  Rood  ( rode  or  rod),  “the  name  of  the  cross 
so  often  erected  in  churches.” — Eadie,  Fccles.  Diet.  p. 
312.  See  Cross;  Rood. 

Holy-Rood  Day,  a festival  on  the  14th  of  Sep- 
tember to  commemorate  in  churches  the  Exaltation  of 
the  Cross;  the  Invention  or  Finding  of  the  Holy  Cross 
being  celebrated  on  the  3d  of  May. — Walcott,  Sac.  A r- 
chceol.  p.  314;  Eadie,  Eccl.  Diet.  p.  312.  See  Cross. 


Holy  Saturday.  In  some  churches  the  Saturday 
before  Easter  is  so  called.  See  Holy  Week. 

Holy  Scripture.  See  Scripture,  iioly. 

Holy  Sepulchre.  See  Sepulchre  of  Christ. 
Holy  Sepulchre,  Orders  of.  1.  A religious 
order  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  according  to  the 
rule  of  St.  Augustine,  founded  in  1114  by  the  archdeacon 
(subsequently  patriarch  of  Jerusalem)  Arnold;  accord- 
ing to  others,  it.  was  founded  in  1099  by  Godfrey  of 
Bouillon.  It.  embraced  rogidar  canons  and  canonesses, 
was  at  one  time  established  all  through  Europe,  and  re- 
ceived a new  rule  under  Urban  VIII.  The  canons  be- 
came extinct  soon  after  the  renewal  of  their  rule,  but 
the  canonesses  still  have  a number  of  houses  in  France, 
Germany  (Baden),  and  the  Netherlands,  and,  living  in 
strict  seclusion,  occupy  themselves  with  the  instruction 
and  education  of  young  girls.  2.  The  Order  of  Knights 
oj  the  Holy  Sepulchre  in  England,  established  in  1174; 
extinct  since  the  16th  century.  The  knights  were 
obliged  to  guard,  at  least  during  two  years,  the  Holy 
Sepulchre  of  Jerusalem.  3.  Knights  of  the  Holy  Sepul- 
chre, an  order  founded  very  likely  by  pope  Alexander 
VI  to  guard  the  Holy  Sepulchre,  and  at  the  same  time  to 
afford  relief  and  protection  to  pilgrims  to  the  Holy  Land. 
Originally  the  pope  was  the  grand  master  of  the  order, 
but  he  finally  ceded  this  right  to  the  “ guardian  father  of 
the  Holy  Sepulchre.”  The  knights  must  be,  according  to 
the  rules  of  the  order,  of  noble  descent,  hear  mass  daily, 
fight,  live,  and  die  for  the  Roman  Catholic  faith,  etc. 
But  they  enjoyed  also  extraordinary  privileges,  as  ex- 
emption from  taxation,  permission  to  marry,  possession 
of  Church  property,  etc.  When  Jerusalem  was  recap- 
tured by  the  Turks,  the  knights  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre 
went  to  Perugia,  in  Italy.  “After  a temporary  union 
with  the  Hospitallers,  the  order  was  reconstructed  in 
1814  both  in  France  and  in  Poland,  and  is  still  in  exist- 
ence within  a very  small  circle  of  knights  elected  by 
the  guardian  father  from  the  most  respectable  pilgrims 
who  come  to  Jerusalem.” — Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  393  sq. 

Holy  Spear  (dyi'a  Xoyyjj),  as  it  is  called  in  the 
Greek  Church,  is  a kind  of  spear  with  a long  handle, 
ending  in  a cross,  “with  which  the  altar-bread,  called 
sphragis  or  holy  lamb,  is  cut  out  from  the  loaf  for  con- 
secration by  the  priest,  with  a solemn  form  in  the  litur- 
gy of  Chrysostom  founded  on  Isa.  liii,  78;  John  xix. 
34.” — Walcott,  Sacred  A rchceol.  p.  314. 

Holy  Spirit.  See  Spirit,  Work  of  the;  Holy 
Ghost;  Paraclete;  Witness  of  the  Spirit. 

Holy  Synod  is  the  title  in  the  Greek  Church  of 
the  highest  governing  body. 

Holy  Table,  as  it  is  called  ill  some  churches,  is  the 
table  on  which  are  placed  the  bread  and  wine,  the  ap- 
pointed emblems  of  the  Saviour’s  death.  See  Altar. 

Holy  Thursday  (called  also  Maundy  Thursday, 
from  mandatum  [commandment],  the  first  word  with 
which  the  Church  sendees  of  the  day  begin),  a day 
observed  in  some  churches  in  commemoration  of  our 
Lord’s  ascension.  In  the  Roman  Calendar  it  is  the  thir- 
ty-ninth day  after  Easter  Siuiday.  See  Ascension 
Day  ; Holy  Week. 

Holy  Union.  See  Holy  League. 

Holy  Wars.  See  Crusades. 

Holy  Water,  in  the  Romish,  as  also  in  the  Greek, 
Russian,  and  Oriental  churches,  denotes  water  blessed  by 
a priest  or  bishop  for  certain  religious  uses.  The  theory 
of  its  first  introduction  seems  to  have  been  that  water 
is  a fitting  symbol  of  purity,  and  accordingly,  in  most  of 
the  ancient  religions,  the  use  of  lustra!  or  purifying  wa- 
ter not  only  formed  part  of  the.  public  worship,  but  also 
entered  largely  into  the  personal  acts  of  sanctification 
prescribed  to  individuals.  The  Jewish  law  also  pre- 
scribed this,  and  it  was  a practice  held  in  common  by 
many  Pagan  nations  (compare Riddle,  Christ. A ni.\>.  725). 
The  sprinkling  of  the  hands  and  face  with  water  before 


HOLY- WATER  SPRINKLER  312  HOLYOKE 


entering  the  sanctuary,  still  generally  observed  by  the  ad- 
herents to  that  law,  was  retained,  or,  no  doubt,  may  have 
given  rise  to  its  adoption  by  the  early  Christian  Church, 
llut  its  use  was  certainly  for  a very  different  purpose. 
Thus  bishop  Marcellus  ordered  Equitius,  his  deacon,  to 
sprinkle  holy  water,  hallowed  by  him,  in  houses  and 
churches,  to  exorcise  devils,  which  is  said  to  have  been 
done  also  by  pope  Alexander  I.  “ Joseph,  the  convert- 
ed Jew,  Epiphanius  says,  used  consecrated  water  in  ex- 
orcism. Holy  water  was  used  in  all  benedictions  of 
palm  and  olive  branches,  vestments,  corporals,  candles, 
houses,  herds,  fields,  and  in  private  houses.  By  the  can- 
on law  it  is  mingled  Avith  salt.  The  Council  of  Nantes 
ordered  the  priest  before  mass  to  sprinkle  the  church 
court  and  close,  offering  prayers  for  the  departed,  and  to 
give  Avater  to  all  Avho  asked  it  for  their  houses,  food,  cat- 
tle, fodder,  fields,  and  vineyards.  By  the  Capitulars  of 
Charlemagne,  Louis,  and  Lotliaire,  on  Easter  and  Whit- 
sun eves  all  the  faithful  might  take,  for  purposes  of  as- 
persion in  their  houses,  consecrated  Avater  before  its  ad- 
mixture Avith  chrism  (q.v.).  In  monasteries,  a novice 
carried  the  holy  Avater  before  the  cross  in  procession” 
(Walcott,  Sac.  A rchceol.  p.  314).  In  the  Bomish  Church 
of  to-day  holy  Avater  is  directed  to  be  made  of  pure 
spring  Avater,  Avith  the  admixture  of  a little  consecrated 
salt.  This  Avater  (generally  placed  at  the  entrance  of 
places  of  Avorship,  and  sanctified  by  a solemn  benedic- 
tion, prescribed  in  the  diocesan  ritual)  the  Komanist  has 
come  to  look  upon  Avith  the  most  superstitious  regard, 
and  it  is  used  not  merely  for  the  sprinkling  of  persons 
on  entering  and  leaving  the  church,  but  also  in  sprink- 
ling books,  bells,  etc.,  and  it  is  frequently  taken  to  their 
homes,  as  having  some  peculiar  virtue.  Its  use  has  thus 
become  nothing  more  than  a charm.  In  the  Greek 
Church,  holy  Avater  is  usually  consecrated  by  the  bishop 
or  his  vicar-general  on  the  eve  of  the  Epiphany.  No  salt 
is  employed,  and  they  regard  the  use  of  it  by  the  Latins 
as  a grieA'Ous  and  unauthorized  corruption.  The  Greeks 
perform  the  ceremony  on  January  6,  the  day  on  Avhicli 
they  belicA'e  that  Christ  Avas  baptized  by  John,  and  tAvice 
a year  it  is  usual  to  drink  a portion,  viz.  at  the  end  of 
the  midnight  mass  of  Christmas  and  on  the  feast  of 
Epiphany.  In  the  Armenian  Church,  holy  Avater  is  con- 
secrated by  plunging  a cross  into  it  on  the  day  of  the 
Epiphany,  after  Avhicli  it  is  distributed  among  the  con- 
gregation, Avho  take  it  to  their  homes.  The  offerings 
made  on  this  occasion  form  a considerable  portion  of  the 
emoluments  of  the  Armenian  priesthood.  On  the  prac- 
tice of  using  Avater  for  baptism,  see  Baptism,  A'ol.  i,  p. 
650. — Bingham,  Orly.  Eccles.  bk.  A'iii,  cli.  iii,  § 67 ; Eadie, 
Eccl.  Cyclop,  p.  313,  658,  659;  Coleman,  A nc.  Christian- 
ity, p.  369,  395;  Chambers,  Cyclop.  at,  394.  For  mono- 
graphs, see  Volbeding,  Index  Program,  p.  142. 

Holy-water  Sprinkler,  “the  aspergill,  a brush 
for  scattering  holy  Avater.  A horrible  Tudor  mace,  Avith 
radiating  spikes,  Avas  called  the  morning  star,  or  sprin- 
kler.”— Walcott,  Sacred  Archaeology,  p.  314. 


Holy- water  Stock  (i.  e.  pillar)  or  Stoup  (i.  e. 

bucket).  A station- 
ary stone  basin  (any 
porous  substance 
Avhich  could  suck  it 
up  Avas  to  be  care- 
fully avoided)  for 
holy  Avater,  placed  at 
the  entrance  of  the 
house  of  AA’orship, 
called  by  the  French 
benitier.  Pope  Leo 
III  erected  one  at 
Ostia.  “The  stoup 

Holy- Avater  Stoue  at  Romsey, Hants.  1S  found  111  a11  Peri“ 
ods  of  architecture, 
formed  in  the  Avail,  set  on  a pillar,  or  in  the  porch,  or 
standing  on  a pedestal.”  The  Aressel  used  by  the  Tem- 
ple priests  Avas  a brazen  laver  (see  Isa.  i,  16 ; lii,  2;  Exod. 


xxx,  20 ; 2 Cor.  vii,  1 ; Psa.  li,  2,  7). — Walcott,  Sac.  A r- 
chceology,  p.  314  sq. 

Holy-water  Vat  (French,  benitier ; Latin,  situla, 
vas),  a vessel  in  Avhich  the  holy  Avater  Avas  carried  about, 
and  which,  according  to  Micrologus,  was  first  consecra- 
ted by  pope  Alexander  Y,  as  Cranmer  says,  to  “ put  us 
in  remembrance  of  our  baptism,  and  the  blood  of  Christ 
for  our  redemption,  sprinkled  on  the  cross.”  Eadie  says 
“ this  \ressel  Avas  termed  ama  or  amula.  Du  Cange  rec- 
ognises aspersol,  aspergillum,  and  aspersorium  as  the 
A^essels  from  which  the  priests  sprinkled  the  Avater,  and 
gucidalerium  as  that  Avhich  contained  it.  The  first  three 
are  plainly  the  same  as  the  Trepippavrypiov  of  pagan- 
ism.” “ The  fixed  holy-Avater  stoup  (q.v.)  was  used  by 
those  Avho  came  too  late  into  church  to  receive  the  as- 
persion by  the  sprinkler  and  water  carried  in  the  port- 
able vat,  which  in  the  churches  of  the  West  represented 
the  bodily  ablution  made  by  the  Oriental  Christians.” — 
Walcott,  Sacred  A rchceology,  p.  315 ; Eadie,  Eccles.  Dic- 
tionary, p.  313. 

Holy  Week,  the  last  week  of  Lent  (q.v.),  i.  e.  the 
Aveek  before  Easter,  and  specially  deAroted  to  commem- 
orating the  sufferings  and  death  of  Christ.  In  Eng- 
lish use,  it  is  also  called  Passion  Week  (a  name  appro- 
priated, in  Boman  use,  to  the  week  before  Palm  Sun- 
day). This  institution  is  of  A'ery  early  origin,  and  Avas 
“formerly  called  the  ‘Great  Week,’  and  in  medinwal 
times  the  ‘Authentic,’  Avith  the  same  meaning;  in  Ger- 
many and  Denmark,  the  popular  title  is  ‘ Still  Week,’  in 
allusion  to  the  holy  quiet  and  abstraction  from  labor 
during  its  continuance.”  In  the  Roman  Catholic  Church, 
the  special  characteristics  of  the  celebration  of  the  Holy 
Week  are  increased  solemnity  and  gloom,  penitential 
rigor,  and  mourning.  If  any  of  the  ordinary  Church 
festivals  fall  therein,  they  are  transferred  till  after  Easter. 
All  instrumental  music  is  suspended  in  the  churches,  the 
altars  are  stripped  of  their  ornaments,  the  pictures  and 
statues  are  A'eiled  from  public  sight,  manual  labor  is  vol- 
nntarilv  suspended,  the  rigor  of  fasting  is  redoubled,  and 
alms-deeds  and  other  A\rorks  of  mercy  ard  sedulously  en- 
joined and  practised.  The  days  specially  solemnized 
are  Palm  Sunday,  Spy  Wednesday,  Holy  (or  Maundy) 
Thursday,  Good  Friday  (q.  v.),  Iloly  Saturday.  Holy 
Thursday  (q.v.),  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  is  spe- 
cially designed  as  a commemoration  of  the  Last  Supper, 
and  of  the  institution  of  the  Eucharist.  Besides  these 
services,  there  are  still  others  annexed  to  the  day,  as  the 
solemn  consecration  of  the  oil  or  chrism  (q.  at.)  used  in 
baptism,  confirmation,  orders,  and  extreme  unction,  the 
Avashing  of  pilgrims’  feet,  and  the  chanting  of  the  Tene- 
bree  (darkness),  consisting  of  the  matins  and  lauds  for 
the  folloAving  mornings,  Avhich  it  is  customary  to  recite 
at  night.  “ During  the  service,  a large  candlestick,  sup- 
porting fifteen  lights,  arranged  in  the  form  of  a triangle, 
Avhich  denote  Christ  and  the  prophets  Avho  predicted 
his  coming,  stands  in  the  sanctuary;  the  lights  are  one 
by  one  extinguished  until  only  the  upper  one  remains, 
Avhich  is  taken  doAvn  and  placed  under  the  altar  until 
the  close  of  the  office,  and  then  brought  back ; this  sym- 
bolizes Christ’s  burial  and  resurrection.”  On  Holy  Sat- 
urday folloAV  the  solemn  blessing  of  fire  and  the  Avater 
of  the  baptismal  font,  the  baptism  of  catechumens,  and 
the  ordination  of  candidates  for  the  ministry.  From 
the  fire  solemnly  blessed  on  this  day  is  lighted  the  Pas- 
chal Light,  Avhich  is  regarded  as  a symbol  of  Christ 
risen  from  the  dead.  This  symbolical  light  is  kept  burn- 
ing during  the  reading  of  the  gospel  at  Mass  through- 
out the  intenral  betAveen  Easter  and  Pentecost. — Wet- 
zer  u.Welte,  Kirchen-Lex.  vol.  ii,  art.  Cliarwochc ; Proc- 
ter, Com.  Prayer,  p.  279  sq. ; Guericke,  Antiquities,  p. 
144  sq. ; Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  394 ; Walcott,  Sacred  A r- 
chceology,  p.  315;  Appleton,  Amer.  Cyclop,  ix,  240,  241. 
See  Passion. 

Holy  Wells,  sacred  springs  in  Popish  countries — 
scenes  of  pilgrimage  and  expected  miracles. 

Holyoke,  Edward,  a Congregational  minister,  was 


HOLZUAUSER 


313 


HOMES 


bom  in  1690  at  Boston.  He  graduated  at  Harvard 
College  in  1705,  was  elected  tutor  in  1712,  and  on  April 
25,  1716,  was  ordained  first  pastor  of  the  Second  Church 
in  Marblehead.  In  1737  he  was  elected  president  of 
Harvard  College,  and  remained  in  that  office  until  his 
death,  June  1, 1769.  He  published  an  Answer  to  White- 
field  (1744),  and  a few  occasional  sermons. — Sprague, 
A muds,  i,  293.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Holzhauser,  Barthoeomaus,  founder  of  the  or- 
der of  Bartholomites  (q.v.),  was  born  at  Langnau,  Switz- 
erland, in  1613,  and  was  brought  up  to  his  father’s  trade, 
shoemaking.  B}r  the  exertions  of  some  charitable  per- 
sons he  was  admitted  into  an  establishment  for  poor 
students  at  Neuburg,  and  afterwards  studied  philosophy 
at  Ingolstadt  under  the  Jesuits.  Ordained  priest  in 
1639,  he  conceived  the  idea  of  bringing  back  the  priest- 
hood to  the  common  life  of  the  primitive  Church.  He 
founded  at  Tittmoningen  an  institution  intended  to  show 
the  working  of  his  system,  and  in  1640  founded  a pre- 
paratory seminary  at  Salzburg  in  connection  with  it. 
He  was  successively  curate  of  Tittmoningen,  Ldggen- 
thal,  and  Bingen,  where  he  died  in  1658,  Ilis  zeal  and 
ascetic  practices  inclined  him  to  revery  and  exaltation, 
so  that  he  claimed  to  have  visions;  and  it  is  said  that, 
having  been  visited  by  Charles  II,  then  a fugitive,  he 
predicted  that  a better  future  awaited  him.  He  wrote, 
Constitution's  cum  exercitiis  clericorvm  (Colon.  1662  sq. ; 
approved  by  the  Church  of  Rome  in  1680)  : — De  hvmil- 
itale,  together  with  a treatise  On  the  Love  of  God  (May- 
ence,  1663) : — Opusculum  visionum  variorum.  A biog- 
raphy of  Holzhauser,  and  a German  translation  of  his 
works,  were  published  by  Clarus  (Ratisbon,  1852) ; a 
French  translation,  with  a biography,  by  Gaduel  (Paris, 
1861). — Ersch  und  Gruber,  Ally.  Knajklopa.dk ; Iloefer, 
Nouv.  Blog.  Generale,  xxv,  14 ; Herzog,  Real-Enajklop. 
i,  700.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Homage,  See  Adoration;  Dulia  ; Fief;  Wor- 
ship. 

Homagium  is  a term  applied  in  ecclesiastical  lan- 
guage to  the  adoration  (q.  v.)  which  the  clergy  in  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church  pay  to  the  pope. — Fuhrmann, 
Hamhcvrierb.  d.  Relig.  und  Kirchengesch . ii,  333. 

Ho'mam  (Ileb.  Ilomani',  C -*n,  discomfiture ; Sept. 
A i/iav,  Vulg.  Homan),  the  second  named  of  the  two 
sons  of  Lotan,  son  of  Seir  the  Ilorite  (1  C’hron.  i,  39). 
In  the  parallel  passage  (Gen.  xxxvi,  22)  his  name  is 
written  IIem  AM  (Ileb.  Iley  mam',  Sept.  At  pa  v, 

Vulg.  Ilenian).  B.C.  considerably  ante  1964.  Ilomam 
is  assumed  by  Gesenius  to  be  the  original  form  ( Thes . p. 
385  a).  By  Knobel  ( Genesis , p.  254)  the  name  is  com- 
pared with  that  of  el-Homaima,  a town  now  ruined, 
though  once  important,  half  way  between  Petra  and  Ai- 
Iatli,  on  the  ancient  road  at  the  back  of  the  mountain, 
which  the  Arabic  geographers  describe  as  the  native 
place  of  the  Abassides  (Robinson,  Res.  ii,  572).  (See  La- 
borde,  Journey,  p.  207,  .4  met  me ; also  the  Arabic  author- 
ities mentioned  by  Knobel.) 

Hombergk  zu  Vach,  Johann  Friedrich,  a 
learned  jurist,  born  at  Marburg  April  15,  1673,  was  edu- 
cated at  the  University  of  Utrecht.  He  visited  Eng- 
land, remaining  for  some  time  in  London,  Oxford,  and 
Cambridge,  and  formed  an  intimate  acquaintance  with 
Richard  Bentley.  He  died  April  20,  174*.  In  addition 
to  works  on  professional  topics,  lie  published,  as  the  re- 
sult of  his  private  study  of  the  New  Testament,  Parer- 
ga  /Sacra  seu  interpretatio  succincta  et  nova  qitorundam 
textuum  Novi  Testamenti  (Ultraj.  1708,  8vo),  and  en- 
larged and  improved  under  the  title  Parerga  Sacra 
seu  observations  queedam  ad  Abram  Testamentum  (Ul- 
traj. 1712,  4to).  The  criticisms  contained  in  this  work 
were  attacked  by  Eisner,  and  defended  by  the  author’s 
son,  yEmilius  Ludwig,  also  a jurist — J.  11.  Hombergk  zu 
Yack  Parerga  sacra  ab  impugnationibus  J.  Elsneri  vin- 
dicate/ (Marb.  1739,  4to),  replied  to  by  a relative  of  Eis- 
ner : Brevem  Hombergianarum  vindicarum  adv.  J.  Els- 


nerum  profligationem  (Berlin,  1742,  4to).  “ Hombergk 

takes  a medium  position  between  the  Hebraists  and  the 
Purists.” — Kit  to,  Bill.  Cyclop,  ii,  319;  Jbcher,  Gel.  Lex , 
ii,  1686. 

Homburg,  Ernst  Christoph,  a German  hym- 
nologist,  was  born  at  M tibia,  near  Eisenach,  in  1605. 
Ilis  profession  was  that  of  lawyer.  In  his  early  years 
he  wrote  secular  verses,  but  in  his  riper  years  he  was 
led  to  turn  his  thoughts  to  sacred  themes,  and  the  re- 
sults are  some  very  beautiful  hymns,  of  which  a few  are 
found  in  the  Liturgy  and  Ilynms  for  the  use  of  the.  Prot- 
estant Church  of  the  United  Brethren  (1836),  and  in 
the  Christum  Psalmist  (1832).  The  “Man  of  Sorrows” 
is  generally  regarded  as  the  best  of  these.  11c  died 
June  21,  1681.— Miller  (Josiah),  Our  Hymns,  their  Au- 
thors and  Origin  (Loud.  1867,  12mo),  p.  32. 

Home,  David,  a French  divine  of  Scottish  birth, 
who  flourished  towards  the  close  of  the  16th  and  the 
beginning  of  the  17th  century,  “ was  engaged  by  James 
I to  attempt  the  impracticable  task  of  uniting  all  the 
Protestant  divines  in  Europe  in  one  system  of  religious 
belief.”  The  most  important  of  his  writings  is  A polo- 
gut  Basilica,  sen  Machiavelli  Ingenium  Examinatum. 
He  is  also  supposed  to  be  the  author  of  two  satires  against 
the  Jesuits,  entitled  Le  Contre  Assassin,  ou  repome  a 
VApologie  des  Jesuites  (1612,  8vo),  and  L'assassinut  du 
Roi,  ou  maximes  du  Yiel  de  la  Montague  Vuticane,  etc. 
(1617,  8vo).  — Nouv.  Did.  Hist,  i,  271;  Gorton,  Biogr. 
Diet.  vol.  ii. 

Home  Missions.  See  Missions. 

Homer  (*rcn,  cho'mer,  a heap,  as  in  Exod.  viii,  14), 
a Hebrew  measure  of  capacity  for  things  dry,  containing 
ten  baths  (Lev.  xxvii,  16 ; Numb,  xi,  32 ; Ezek.  xlv,  11, 
13, 14).  In  later  writers  it  is  usually  termed  a cor.  See 
Measure. 

The  le'thek  (q\?b,  vessel  for  pouring;  Sept.  igiiKopoc, 
Vulg.  corns  dimidius,  Engl.  Vers,  “half  a homer”)  was  a 
measure  for  grain  of  half  the  capacity  of  the  homer  or 
cor,  as  seems  probable  from  the  only  passage  where  it 
is  mentioned  (Hos.  iii,  3).  See  Stud.  u.  Krit.  1846,  i,  123. 

Homer,  Jonathan,  D.D.,  a Congregational  minis- 
ter, was  born  October,  1759.  He  graduated  at  Harvard 
College  in  1777,  was  ordained  pastor  of  the  First  Church 
in  Newton  Feb.  13,  1782,  resigned  in  April,  1839,  and 
died  Aug.  11, 1843.  Dr.  Homer  published  a Description 
and  History  of  Newton  in  the  Massachusetts  Historical 
Collection,  vol.  v (1798),  and  a few  occasional  sermons. 
He  also  superintended  an  edition  of  TeaVs  Columbian 
Bible. — Sprague,  Annuls,  ii,  173. 

Homer,  William  Bradford,  a Congregational 
minister,  was  born  in  Boston  Jail.  31,  1817.  lie  was 
educated  at  Amherst  College,  from  which  he  graduated 
iu  1836,  and  immediately  entered  on  a course  of  theo- 
logical study  at  Andover.  While  in  the  middle  year 
of  his  course  he  declined  the  offer  of  a tutorship  in  Am- 
herst College.  He  was  ordained  pastor  of  South  Ber- 
wick, Me.,  Nov.  11, 1840,  where  he  died,  March  22, 1841. 
The  remarkable  development  of  Homer’s  intellect  was 
a matter  of  great  surprise  to  all  of  his  instructors. 
When  only  eleven  years  old  he  was  already  thorough- 
ly conversant  with  the  Latin,  the  modern  Greek,  and 
French  languages.  The  last  two  he  is  said  to  have 
spoken  with  fluency.  At  Andover  he  closed  the  exer- 
cises of  his  class  by  an  essay  so  scholarly  in  its  bearings 
that  he  was  requested  to  publish  it.  Ail  oration  of  his, 
delivered  on  leaving  the  president’s  chair  of  the  Porter 
Rhetorical  Society  of  the  Theological  Seminary,  was  also 
printed.  His  “writings”  have  been  published,  with  an 
Introductory  Essay  and  a Memoir,  by  Prof.  Edward  A. 
Park,  of  Andover  Theological  Seminary  (2d  ed.  Boston, 
1849, 8vo).  See  also  the  Christian  Review  (May,  1849). 
— Sprague,  Annals,  ii.  753  sq. 

Homerites.  See  Himyarites. 

Homes  or  Holmes,  Nathaniel,  a learned  Eng- 


HOMES 


314 


HOMILETICS 


lish  divine,  was  for  a time  incumbent  of  the  living  of 
St.  Mary  Staining,  London,  but  was  ejected  for  noncon- 
formity in  1GG2.  lie  died  in  1G78.  His  publications, 
now  become  rare,  include  The  Resurrection  Revealed 
(Lond.  1654,  fol. ; 2d  ed.  1833,  8vo)  : — The  Resurrection 
Revealed  raised  above  Doubts  and  Difficulties , in  ten  Ex- 
ercitations  (London,  1GG1,  folio): — A Continuation  of  the 
Histories  of  Foreign  Martyrs  from  the  Reign  of  Queen 
Elizabeth  to  these  Times  (in  Fox’s  Acts  and  Monuments, 
ed.  1684,  iii,  865): — The  New  World,  or  the  New  Re- 
formed Church  discovered  out  of  2 Pet.  iii,  13  (London, 
1641, 4to).  See  Wood,  A thence  Oxon.;  Darling,  Cyclop. 
Bibliographica,  vol.  i ; Alliboue,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  873. 

Homes,  William,  was  bom  in  Ireland  in  1663, 
and  was  ordained  in  that  country  in  1692.  He  emigra- 
ted to  America  in  1714,  and  became  minister  at  Mar- 
tha’s Vineyard,  Mass,  lie  died  in  1746.  Homes  pub- 
lished four  sermons  (1732, 1747,  etc.). — Allen’s  American 
Biographical  Dictionary. 

Homicide.  See  Max-slayer. 

Homiletics  is  the  science  of  Christian  address. 
The  term  is  derived  from  bgtXia,  converse,  which,  in 
early  Christian  usage,  signified  a religious  address;  or, 
more  directly,  from  the  adjective  bpiXgriKog,  conversa- 
tional, or  pertaining  to  verbal  communion.  It  came 
into  permanent  use  during  the  17th  century,  at  a period 
when,  under  the  influence  of  the  scholastic  method,  the 
principal  branches  of  theology  received  scientific  desig- 
nations derived  from  the  Greek  language : e.  g.  Apolo- 
getics, Dogmatics,  Hermeneutics,  Polemics.  Although 
promptly  naturalized  on  the  continent  of  Europe,  the 
term  Homiletics  was  not  for  a long  time  generally  adopt- 
ed in  England.  In  fact,  its  present  accepted  use  in  the 
English  language  is  largely  due  to  American  author- 
ship. In  Germany  some  attempts  have  been  made  to 
introduce  other  terms  also  derived  from  the  Greek. 
Stier  proposed  Kery  Idles,  from  KigwK,  a herald ; and 
Sickel  JIalieutics,  from  d\itvg,  ajishernian;  the  latter 
being  used  tropically  in  the  Gospels  in  application  to 
the  disciples  as  “fishers  of  men.”  Both  of  these  terms 
have  been  regarded  as  fanciful  and  undeserving  of  per- 
petuation, even  though  limited  to  missionary  preach- 
ing. The  term  Homiletics  is  not  entirely  unexception- 
able, but  is  retained  and  employed  for  lack  of  a better. 

I.  History. — With  some  authors,  especially  in  Ger- 
many, the  use  of  a scientific  term  to  designate  the  the- 
ory of  preaching  has  seemed  to  extenuate,  if  not  to 
suggest,  some  practical  errors  in  its  treatment.  Set- 
ting out  with  the  idea  of  exhibiting  a science  in  a sci- 
entific manner,  not  a few  writers  have  ignored  the 
proper  origin  and  the  religious  design  of  preaching. 
They  have  treated  it  exclusively  from  the  rhetorical 
and  human  point  of  view.  They  have  cumbered  it 
with  artificial  and  arbitrary  rides,  apparently  not  hav- 
ing conceived  of  it  as  an  agency  specially  and  divinely 
appointed  for  the  moral  renovation  of  the  world.  But 
a perverted  use  of  terms  was  not  the  origin  of  mistakes 
on  this  subject,  nor  was  error  in  reference  to  it  first  de- 
veloped in  modern  times.  Indeed,  misconceptions  of 
the  true  design  of  preaching,  as  well  as  of  the  Christian 
truth  it  had  been  appointed  to  propagate,  became  com- 
mon at  a very  early  period  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 

1.  The  true  scriptural  idea  of  preaching  was  corrupted 
in  the  ancient  Church  by  (1)  ritualistic  tendencies;  (2) 
rhetorical  ambition.  No  sooner  had  the  idea  that  the 
Christian  ministry  is  a priesthood  gained  prevalence  in 
the  Church  than  preaching  became  secondary  to  sacer- 
dotal rites,  and  the  power  of  the  Gospel  waned  under 
an  increasing  array  of  forms  and  ceremonies.  Instead 
of  being  foremost  as  the  grand  agency  of  Christian  prop- 
agandism,  it  became  au  appendage  to  public  worship. 
Instead  of  going  forth  to  find  hearers  in  the  market- 
places and  by  the  wayside,  preaching  began  to  be  re- 
garded as  one  of  the  mysteries  of  the  Church  from  which 
the  heathen,  and  even  catechumens  of  the  first  degree, 
were  excluded.  Catechumens  of  the  second  degree  were 


called  by  the  Greek  Church  aKoowpivoi,  and  by  the 
Latin  audientes,  “from  their  being  admitted  to  hear  ser- 
mons and  the  Scriptures  read  in  the  church;  but  they 
were  not  allowed  to  stay  during  any  of  the  prayers,  not 
even  during  those  that  were  said  over  the  rest  of  the 
catechumens,  or  energumens,  or  penitents;  but  before 
these  began,  immediately  after  the  sermon,  at  the  word 
of  command  then  solemnly  used — 1 Nc  quis  audientium ; 
Let  none  of  the  hearers  be  present’ — they  were  to  de- 
part the  church”  (Bingham,  Orig.  Eccl.  bk.  x,  c.  ii,  § 3). 

Preaching,  having  become  a ceremony,  was  next  cor- 
rupted by  embellishments,  and  an  artificial  style  adopt- 
ed from  the  Greek  rhetoricians.  Exhortations  and  ser- 
mons of  a scriptural  character  began  to  be  substituted 
by  formal  orations,  and  panegyrics  upon  martyrs  and 
confessors  subsequently  worshipped  as  saints.  Never- 
theless, homilies,  or  familiar  expositions  of  .Scripture, 
were  maintained  by  the  ablest  of  the  fathers,  and  were 
sometimes  furnished  for  the  use  of  clerics  incompetent 
to  produce  original  addresses  (see  Augustine,  Doctrina 
Christiana,  lib.  iv).  The  5tli  century  has  been  called 
the  oratorical  period  of  the  Church,  with  reference  to 
the  distinguished  preachers  who  then  flourished,  such 
as  Basil,  Gregory  Nazianzen,  Gregory  of  Nyssa,  Chry- 
sostom, and  Augustine.  Two  books  which  have  come 
down  to  us  from  the  last-named  fathers  are  often  quoted 
as  containing  the  best  specimens  of  homiletieal  litera- 
ture that  appeared  both  in  the  Greek  and  Latin  church- 
es during  the  long  period  of  a thousand  years,  if  indeed 
they  have  ever  been  excelled  in  those  churches;  yet 
neither  of  these  works  formally  or  fully  discussed  the 
subject  of  preaching.  Chrysostom’s  irtpi  ' Itpojavvqg, 
being  devoted  to  the  subject  of  the  priesthood,  only  al- 
luded to  preaching  incidentally;  nevertheless,  it  embod- 
ied some  excellent,  precepts  concerning  it,  such  as  may 
be  supposed  to  have  governed  the  studies  and  the  hab- 
its of  the  writer  himself,  and  by  means  of  which  he  ob- 
tained his  wonderful  success.  Yet  no  estimate  of  Chry- 
sostom (the  golden-mouthed ) can  be  accepted  as  just 
which  does  not  concede  to  him  extraordinary  genius 
and  transcendent  abilities  as  an  orator.  Augustine,  in 
his  Doctrina  Christiana,  treated  the  subject  of  preach- 
ing more  fully,  and  discussed  it  more  systematically. 
He  divided  his  treatise  into  four  books.  Three  of  them 
are  entitled  De  iiu'eniendo,  and  treat  of  invention  in  a 
broad  sense,  including  the  interpretation  of  the  .Scrip- 
tures. These  books  have  not  in  modern  times  been 
very  highly  valued.  The  fourth  relates  to  expression, 
De  jiroferendo.  Although  a brief  fragment,  it  has  been 
pronounced  the  best  homiletieal  production  that  ap- 
peared between  the  days  of  Paid  and  Luther.  It  has 
been  translated  into  various  languages,  and  its  most  im- 
portant precepts  have  often  been  quoted,  and  in  various 
forms  reproduced.  The  chief  intrinsic  interest  of  this 
fragment  from  the  pen  of  Augustine  consists  in  its  show- 
ing the  best  views  of  an  eminent  Christian  bishop  of  the 
4th  century,  who,  after  his  conversion,  made  his  Roman 
rhetorical  education  in  a high  degree  subservient  to  the 
promulgation  of  Christian  truth.  Well  would  it  have 
been  for  the  Church  of  the  following  centuries  had  the 
spirit  and  power  of  Augustine’s  instructions  to  preachers 
been  held  in  remembrance  and  kept  in  practice.  But, 
unhappily,  even  this  light  became  obscured.  The  Scrip- 
tures of  truth  having  lapsed  out  of  use,  ceremonies  be- 
came multiplied  more  and  more.  The  doctrine  of 
Christ’s  eternal  sacrifice  for  sin  having  become  corrupt- 
ed hv  incipient  theories  of  transubstantiation,  the  pre- 
tended sacrifice  of  the  Mass  rose  to  greater  prominence, 
and  so  far  usurped  the  time  of  public  worship  that  ser- 
mons and  homilies  gave  place  to  a diminutive  form  of 
public  religious  address  called  postils.  Even  the  func- 
tion of  postulating  was  chiefly  confined  to  bishops,  the 
common  clergy  not  attempting  or  being  allowed  to 
preach.  As  if  such  a degradation  of  one  of  the  highest 
offices  ever  committed  to  men  was  not  sufficient,  preach- 
ing sank  still  lower  by  being  employed  for  the  promo- 
tion of  error  under  the  guise  of  truth.  Mcdkeval  preach- 


HOMILETICS 


315 


HOMILETICS 


Ing  was  largely  occupied  in  eulogizing  the  Virgin  Man", 
and  in  exciting  reverence  for  the  pictures  and  images 
of  saints.  Thus  preaching  was  made  to  corrupt  the 
very  religion  it  was  designed  to  promote.  Beyond  this, 
it  even  became  the  agency  of  exciting  millions  of  men 
to  war  and  bloodshed.  Successive  crusades  were  preach- 
ed by  popes  and  friars,  and  even  the  cruel  persecutions 
of  the  Albigenses  were  stimulated  by  the  preaching  of 
vengeance  against  innocent  men,  who  sought  to  follow 
Christ  in  sincerity.  For  such  ends,  more  than  for  the 
promulgation  of  truth,  were  several  orders  of  preaching 
and  mendicant  monks  established  in  the  13th  century. 
Among  these,  the  Dominicans  were  the  founders  and 
principal  abettors  of  the  Inquisition,  while  others,  of  less 
cruel  temper,  went  about  to  harangue  the  masses  in  the 
interests  of  papal  supremacy,  and  to  promote  the  sale  of 
indulgences. 

2.  It  was  not  till  mediaeval  superstition  had  culmina- 
ted in  the  grossest  abuses,  and  the  Reformation  had  be- 
gun to  exert  a counter  influence,  that  the  Scriptures  be- 
gan to  be  restored  to  their  proper  supremacy.  From 
that  period  the  original  design  and  true  character  of 
preaching  came  to  be  better  comprehended.  Much  of 
the  preaching  of  the  Deformation  was  indeed  contro- 
versial, but  so  far  as  it  was  founded  on  the  Word  of  God 
it  tended  to  revive  scriptural  conceptions  of  the  preach- 
ing office.  The  diligence  of  the  Protestant  reformers 
in  promulgating  their  views  made  preaching  also  neces- 
sary to  Roman  Catholics,  among  whom,  from  that  time, 
it  became  more  common,  and,  especially  in  Protestant 
countries,  it  was  no  longer  confined  to  bishops,  but  en- 
joined upon  the  clergy  of  all  grades. 

II.  Literature . — The  inspired  Scriptures,  especially 
those  of  the  New  Testament,  must  ever  be  considered 
the  primary  and  most  valuable  source  of  homiletical 
instruction.  Patristic  literature  on  this  subject,  as  al- 
ready shown,  is  meagTe  and  fragmentary.  Floniiletical 
literature,  in  following  ages,  may  be  classified  in  four 
principal  departments : 1.  Treatises'  on  preaching ; 2. 
Aids  to  preaching,  so-called : 3.  Sermons,  or  the  products 
of  preaching;  4.  Biographies  of  preachers  and  miscel- 
laneous articles  relating  to  the  objects  and  manner  of 
preaching.  The  first  only  of  these  departments  will  be 
particularly  considered  in  this  article.  Immediately 
consequent  upon  the  revival  of  preaching  in  the  16th 
century,  there  also  occurred  a renaissance  of  homiletical 
productions,  which  have  continued  to  midtiply  ever  since. 
Prior  to  the  middle  of  the  17th  century  there  were  ex- 
tant some  seventy  different  treatises,  “writ  particularly 
upon  this  subject,”  chiefly  in  the  Latin  language.  These 
books  were  classified  by  Draudius  in  his  Bibliotheca 
Classica,  under  the  head  of  u Concionutorum  instruction 
and  by  Molanus,  in  his  Bibliotheca  Mate  riorum,  under 
the  head  of  “ Concionandi  munus .”  To  these,  bishop 
Wilkins  remarks,  “maybe  added  those  many  other  dis- 
courses wherein  these  things ‘have  been  largely  handled 
by  the  by,  though  not  chiefly  intended,  in  all  which 
many  learned  men  have  laid  down  such  rules  as,  accord- 
ing to  their  several  geniuses  and  observations,  seemed 
most  useful.”  In  the  enumeration  of  works  referred  to, 
no  proper  distinction  was  made  between  the  office  of 
preacher  and  pastor.  Hence  we  find  enumerated  in  the 
list  the  works  of  Bowls  and  Hcmingius,  both  entitled 
Be  Pastore ; also  that  of  Hen.  Diest,  styled  Be  ratione 
studii  Tlieologici.  Some  of  the  earlier  books  on  the  sub- 
ject of  preaching  by  English  authors  were  written  in 
Latin,  e.  g.  that  of  William  Perkins,  entitled  “Arte  of 
Propheeying,  or  a treatise  concerning  the  sacred  and 
oncly  trve  manner  & method  of  preaching.  First  writ- 
ten in  Latin  by  Air.  William  Perkins,  and  now  faithfully 
translated  into  English  (for  that  it  containctli  many 
worthy  things  fit  for  the  knowledge  of  men  of  all  de- 
grees) by  Thomas  Take.  Motto,  Nchemiah  viii,  4.  5,  6 
(Cambridge,  1613).”  Cotton  Mather's  Manductio  ad 
Ministerium,  written  about  1710,  in  addition  to  a Latin 
title,  had  a very  formal  and  sonorous  Latin  preface.  In 
the  text  of  liis  treatise  the  learned  author  makes  this 


j remark  concerning  homiletical  literature  prior  to  the 
j period  in  which  he  wrote : “ There  is  a troop  of  authors, 

; and  even  an  host  of  God,  who  have  written  on  the  Pas- 
| toral  care  from  the  days  of  Gregory  down  to  the  days 
of  Gilbert ; yea,  and  since  these,  every  year  some  to  this 
j very  day.  I cannot  set  you  so  tedious  a task  as  to  read 
a tenth  part  of  what  lias  been  offered  on  the  art,  and 
the  gift,  and  the  method  of  preaching.” 

In  modern  times,  several  different  epochs  of  homilet- 
ical literature  may  be  recognised  corresponding  to  the 
character  of  preaching  at  different  periods  and  in  differ- 
ent countries.  In  Germany,  the  Lutheran  reformation 
was  characterized  by  great  earnestness  and  even  blunt- 
ness in  the  mode  of  preaching,  not  only  in  controversial 
discourses,  but  even  in  the  proclamation  and  enforce- 
ment of  evangelical  truth.  Luther  wrote  no  work  on 
preaching,  but  by  his  example  and  occasional  precepts, 
some  of  which  arc  recorded  in  his  Table-  Talk,  he  greatly 
influenced  his  coadjutors  and  followers  as  to  their  the- 
ory and  practice  as  preachers.  The  following  arc  some 
of  Luther’s  characteristic  sayings.  Portrait  of  a good 
preacher : “A  good  preacher  should  have  these  virtues 
and  qualities:  1.  He  should  be  able  to  teach  plainly  and 
in  order ; 2.  He  should  have  a good  head ; 3.  a good 
voice ; 4.  a good  memory ; 5.  He  should  know  when  to 
stop;  6.  He  should  study  diligently,  and  be  sure  of  what 
he  means  to  say;  7.  He  should  be  ready  to  stake  body 
and  life,  goods  and  glory,  on  its  truth  ; 8.  He  should  be 
willing  to  be  vexed  and  criticised  by  everybody.”  Ad- 
vices to  young  preachers  : “ Tritt  f iisch  auf  thu's  maul 
auf  hur  bald  auf,"  i.  e.  Stand  up  cheerily,  speak  up  man- 
fully, leave  off  speedily.  “ When  you  are  about  to 
preach,  speak  to  God  and  say,  ‘My  Lord  God,  I wish  to 
preach  to  thine  honor,  to  speak  of  thee,  to  praise  thee, 
and  to  glorify  thy  name.’  ” “ Let  all  your  sermons  be  of 
the  simplest.  Look  not  to  the  princes,  but  to  the  sim- 
ple and  unlearned  people.  We  should  preach  to  the  lit- 
tle children,  for  the  sake  of  such  as  these  the  office  of 
preaching  is  instituted.  Ah ! what  pains  our  Lord  Christ 
took  to  teach  simply.  From  vineyards,  sheep,  and  trees 
he  drew  his  similes;  anything  in  order  that  the  multi- 
tudes might  understand,  embrace,  and  retain  the  truth.” 
“If  we  are  found  true  to  our  calling  we  shall  receive 
honor  enough,  not,  however,  in  this  life,  but  in  the  life 
to  come.” 

After  Luther’s  death  a reaction  occurred,  in  which 
there  was  a return  to  scholastic  formulas  and  other  ob- 
jectionable features  of  the  mediaeval  homilies  and  pos- 
tils. This  second  period  has  sometimes  been  called  that 
of  the  postilists,  in  allusion  as  well  to  Protestants  as 
Catholics.  In  the  following  period  the  pietism  of  .Spe- 
ner  and  Franckc  promoted  a healthful  reform  in  the 
Protestant  pulpit  of  Germany,  although  the  reform  was 
to  some  extent  neutralized  by  the  nearly  simultaneous 
development  of  the  Wolfian  philosophy,  which  gloried 
more  in  logical  forms  than  in  the  power  of  the  cross. 
This  philosophy  was  fascinating  to  students,  and,  hav- 
ing gained  an  ascendency  in  the  universities,  it  antag- 
onized the  plainer  and  more  evangelical  mode  of  preach- 
ing commended  by  Luther  and  Franckc. 

Mosheim,  the  Church  historian  of  the  middle  of  the 
18th  century,  was  also  a celebrated  preacher,  and  is  re- 
garded as  having  introduced  another  homiletical  epoch 
in  Germany.  His  style  was  majestic  and  oratorical, 
similar  to  that  of  Tillotson  in  England,  and  Bourdaloue 
in  France.  By  him  it  was  well  applied  to  religious  in- 
struction, but  after  him  it  greatly  degenerated,  many 
of  his  imitators  being  more  noted  for  the  form  of  sound 
words  than  for  the  spirit  of  vital  piety.  By  degrees, 
preaching  declined  in  its  religious  power,  until  sermons 
scarcely  aimed  at  being  more  than  didactic  or  rhetorical 
entertainments. 

Reinhard,  court  preacher  in  Dresden  about  1800,  not 
only  inaugurated  a better  style  of  preaching,  tyit  illus- 
trated his  theory  in  numerous  published  sermons  (a  col- 
lection of  his  sermons  was  published  at  Sulzb.  1831-7,  in 
39  vols.  8vo),  and  also  in  a series  of  letters  entitled  his 


HOMILETICS 


316 


HOMILETICS 


“ Confessions.”  His  style  was  characterized  by  richness 
of  thought,  clearness,  definiteness,  force,  and  dignity  of 
expression.  It  prevailed  both  among  the  rationalists  and 
the  orthodox  to  the  time  of  Sclilciermacher.  The  pow- 
er of  Schlciermacher  as  a preacher  corresponded  to  his 
great  influence  as  a theologian,  and  his  example  is  re- 
garded as  having  introduced  another  period  in  German 
homiletics,  although  he  did  not  write  specially  on  that 
topic.  In  the  course  of  his  life  his  own  style  of  preach- 
ing improved,  rising  from  the  moralisms  with  which  he 
commenced  to  a more  evangelical  tone  in  subsequent 
years. 

Apart  from  those  who  have  treated  of  preaching  as  a 
branch  of  practical  theology,  the  more  prominent  Ger- 
man authors  on  homiletics  during  the  current  century 
have  been  Schott,  Reinhard,  Marheinecke,  Theremin, 
Stier,  Lentz,  Paniel,  Palmer,  Ficker,  Schweitzer. 

In  France  the  golden  age  of  pulpit  oratory  occurred 
about  the  close  of  the  17th  and  at  the  beginning  of  the 
18th  century.  It  was  the  age  of  Eossuet,  Bourdaloue, 
Massillon,  and  Fenelon,  among  the  Roman  Catholics, 
and  of  Claude,  Superville,  and  Saurin,  among  the  Prot- 
estants. Fenelon  and  Claude  became  representative 
authors  of  the  two  churches : the  former  by  his  Dia- 
logues on  Eloquence,  particularly  that  of  the  Pulpit  ,•  the 
latter  by  his  Essay  on  the  Composition  of  a Sermon. 
These  valuable  contributions  to  homiletical  literature 
are  still  read  with  interest,  not  only  in  the  French,  but 
in  the  English  language.  Even  the  former  has  been 
more  appreciated  and  oftener  reprinted  by  Protestants 
than  by  Romanists.  France,  in  the  19th  century,  has 
also  produced  many  examples  of  great  preachers  and 
good  writers  on  homiletics.  Without  attempting  to 
enumerate  the  former,  the  principal  authors  are  Ve'tu, 
Martin,  Bautain,  and  Mullois,  of  the  Catholics,  and  Vi- 
net,  Vincent,  and  Coquerel,  of  the  Protestants. 

In  Great  Britain,  the  principal  homiletical  writers  of 
the  18th  century  were  John  Edwards,  1705;  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge, 1751 ; Fordyce,  1754 ; and  George  Campbell,  1775. 

Apart,  however,  from  the  influence  of  any  of  these 
writers,  there  arose  during  that  century  a style  of  Chris- 
tian address  destined  to  have  a great  influence  upon  the 
subsequent  preaching  of  English-speaking  countries. 
Allusion  is  made  to  the  reformation  that  commenced  in 
connection  with  the  labors  of  Wesley,  Whitefield,  and 
others  about  1740.  The  preaching  of  these  men  was 
characterized  by  a return  to  scriptural  simplicity  and 
fervor,  and  was  followed  by  extensive  religions  awaken- 
ings, which  in  due  time  extended  a quickening  influ- 
ence to  ministers  of  all  the  churches.  The  Wesleyan 
reformation  was  further  characterized  by  field-preach- 
ing, and  by  the  employment  of  unordained  men  as  lay 
preachers,  who  gave  evidence  of  a divine  impulse  to 
call  sinners  to  repentance.  John  Wesley,  like  Luther, 
though  he  wrote  no  treatise  on  preaching,  gave  numer- 
ous advices  and  some  rules  to  preachers,  which  largely 
influenced  the  practice  of  those  who  became  associated 
with  him,  and  which  did  not,  as  in  the  case  of  Luther, 
soon  after  become  obsolete  under  the  influence  of  for- 
malistic reaction.  In  the  minutes  of  one  of  his  early 
conferences,  Wesley  gave  rules  for  his  preachers  which 
have  been  officially  perpetuated  in  Methodist  societies 
and  churches  ever  since.  These  rules  pointed  out  in 
the  briefest  words  the  grand  objects  and  essentials  of 
preaching,  regarding  all  rhetorical  precepts  and  “small- 
er advices”  as  merely  auxiliary.  “ Quest.  What  is  the 
best  general  method  of  preaching?  A ns.  1.  To  invite. 
2.  To  convince.  8.  To  offer  Christ.  4.  To  build  up.” 
Here  was  the  essence  of  the  evangelical  idea  of  preach- 
ing, and  its  fruits  followed.  Fletcher’s  portrait  of  St. 
Paul  expanded  and  illustrated  the  same  idea;  but  no 
extended  work  on  preaching  was  produced  by  any 
Methodist  of  that  period. 

The  early  part  of  the  19th  century  witnessed  the  pub- 
lication in  England  of  but.  few,  if  any,  homiletical  works 
of  permanent  value.  Between  1808  and  1819  the  Rev. 
Charles  Simeon,  of  Cambridge,  laboriously  developed 


the  system  of  Claude  on  the  composition  of  a sermon  in 
a series  of  plans  of  sermons  on  the  principal  texts  of 
Scripture  from  Genesis  to  Revelation.  This  work,  which 
attained  the  magnitude  of  twenty-one  octavo  volumes, 
was  designed  to  be  a thesaurus  of  help  and  guidance  in 
sermonizing.  It  contained  no  less  than  2536  “skele- 
tons,” enough  to  supply  two  sermons  each  Sabbath  for 
nearly  a quarter  of  a century.  What  more  could  a 
minister  want?  Such  a wealth  of  supply  would  not 
have  been  provided  had  there  not  been  a demand.  The 
demand  may  have  been  healthy  as  far  as  it  indicated  a 
disposition  on  the  part  of  the  English  clergy  to  escape 
from  the  still  more  indolent  practice,  not  yet  entirely 
extinct,  of  copying  sermons  in  full,  and  reading  manu- 
scripts prepared  for  market,  and  sold  in  the  shambles. 
Nevertheless,  the  idea  that  sermon  plans  for  use,  any 
more  than  sermons  for  delivery,  could  be  an  article  of 
merchandise,  was  inherently  wrong,  and,  as  far  as  adopt- 
ed, could  only  tend  to  mental  torpor,  and  a servile  de- 
pendence on  the  brain-work  of  others.  Yet  pulpit  as- 
sistants, pulpit  cyclopedias,  books  of  sketches,  and  other 
devices  for  “ preaching  made  easy,”  have  had  their  day 
in  England,  as  well  as  in  Germany  and  France.  Sim- 
eon’s I I or a>,  Ifomileticee,  notwithstanding  inherent  faults, 
was  by  far  the  noblest  of  its  class.  It  may  now  be  pro- 
nounced obsolete  in  reference  to  its  primary  design,  yet 
one  of  its  features  is  imitated  in  some  of  the  best  com- 
mentaries of  the  present  day,  by  the  insertion  in  a less 
formal  manner  of  homiletical  notes  on  important  texts 
and  passages. 

Several  valuable  works  on  preaching  have  been  pub- 
lished in  England  during  the  last  thirty-five  years.  The 
following  deserve  mention:  The  Ministerial  Character 
of  Cln'ist  practically  considered , by  Charles  R.  Sumner, 
bishop  of  Winchester  (London,  1824,  8vo);  Apostolical 
Preaching  considered,  by  John  Bird  Sumner,  lord  bishop 
of  Chester  (1839;  9th  ed.  1850);  Ecclesiastes  Ang/iea- 
nus,  a treatise  on  preaching  as  adapted  to  a Clmrch-of- 
England  congregation,  by  W.  Greslev  (Lond.  3d  edition 
1844,  12mo);  Preaching,  its  Warrant , Subject,  and  Ef- 
fects, by  W.  S.  Bricknell  (London,  1845) ; The  Modern 
Pulpit,  vieiced  in  Relation  to  the  State  of  Society,  by  Rob- 
ert Vaughan  (Lond.  1842,  post  8vo);  Paul  the  Preacher, 
by  John  Eadie,  D.D.  (Lond.  1859,  post  8vo;  reprinted, 
N.  Y.  1 2mo) ; Thoughts  on  Preaching,  specially  in  Rela- 
tion to  the  Requirements  of  the  Age,  by  Daniel  Moore 
(Lond.  18G1,  cr.  8vo);  The  Duty  and  Discijdine  of  Ex- 
temporary Preaching,  by  F.  Barham  Zincke  (reprint, 
N.  Y.  1867,  12mo);  Sacred  Eloquence,  or  the  Theory  and 
Practice  of  Preaching,  by  Thomas  J.  Potter  { Roman 
Catholic)  (Dublin,  1868). 

As  to  homiletical  authorship  in  America,  Cotton  Ma- 
ther’s Manductio  ad  Ministerium,  or  Angels  preparing  to 
sound  the  Trunpets,  although  rare  and  little  known,  had 
the  pre-eminence  of  being  the  first  and  only  work  of  its 
class  up  to  1824.  At  that  date  Henry  Ware,  Jun.,  of 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  published  his  Hints  on  Extempora- 
neous Preaching,  a truly  valuable  work.  In  1819  Ebe- 
nezer  Porter,  of  Andover,  republished  Fenelon ’s  Dia* 
logues,  Claude’s  Essay,  and  several  minor  works,  under  the 
title  The  Young  Preacher's  Manual  (Boston,  1839,  8vo). 
Subsequently  the  following  principal  works  have  ap- 
peared : Lectures  on  Homiletics  and  Preaching,  by  Ebe- 
nezer  Porter,  D.D.  (And.  and  N.  Y.  1834,  8vo);  Sacred 
Rhetoric,  or  Composition  and  Delivery  of  Sermons,  by 
Henry  J.  Ripley  (X.  Y.  1849,  12mo);  The  Power  of  the 
Pulpit,  Thoughts  addressed  to  Christiem  Ministers,  by 
Gardiner  Spring,  D.D.  (1854) ; Preaching  required  by 
the  Times,  by  Abel  Stevens,  LL.D.  (X.  Y.  1856,  12mo); 
The  Moelel  Preacher,  a Series  of  Letters  on  the  best 
Mode  of  Preaching  the  Gospel,  hv  William  Taylor,  of 
California  (Cincinnati,  1859,  12mo) ; Preachers  and 
Preaching,  by  Nicholas  Murray,  D.D.  (1860);  Thoughts 
on  Preaching,  by  James  W.  Alexander,  D.D.  (1861, 
12mo);  A Treatise  on  Homiletics,  by  Daniel  P.  Kidder, 
D.D.  (1864,  12mo);  Homiletics  and  Pastoral  Theology, 
by  W.  G.  T.  Shedd,  D.D.  (1867,  8vo) ; Office  and  Work 


HOMILETICS 


317 


HOMILETICS 


of  the  Christian  Ministry/,  by  James  M.  Hoppin  (I860, 
12mo).  The  larger  part  of  the  last-named  work  is  de- 
voted to  the  subject  of  homiletics,  although  not  so  indi- 
cated in  the  title. 

From  the  foregoing  lists  it  may  be  seen  that  recently 
American  authorship  on  this  subject  is  somewhat  in  ex- 
cess of  English.  Several  of  the  last-named  books  have 
been  written  by  teachers  of  practical  theology  repre- 
senting different  churches,  and  have  the  merit  of  dis- 
cussing the  subject  not  only  from  an  evangelical  point 
of  view,  but  in  the  light  of  the  most  modern  develop- 
ments and  applications  of  Christianity.  The  state  of 
society  in  the  United  States  of  America  is  favorable  to 
the  illustration  of  the  true  theory  of  preaching,  as  well 
as  to  its  most  efficient  practice.  All  the  churches,  as 
were  those  of  primitive  times,  are  dependent  on  volun- 
tary support.  Neither  their  congregations  nor  their 
success  can  be  maintained  without  attractive,  and,  in 
some  degree,  effective  preaching.  Even  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church  has  adopted  regular  Sunday  sermons 
and  week-day  missions,  a species  of  revival  efforts.  Con- 
trary to  its  universal  custom  where  maintained  as  a re- 
ligion of  the  state,  it  here  builds  its  churches  and  cathe- 
drals with  pews  or  sittings  for  audiences  instead  of  open 
naves  for  processions  and  moving  crowds.  The  people 
of  America,  of  whatever  class,  are  free  to  hear  whom 
they  choose,  or  not  to  hear  at  all,  unless  addressed  in  a 
manner  adapted  to  please  or  profit  them.  Correspond- 
ing to  this  state  of  things,  the  preachers  of  all  churches, 
together  with  errorists  of  every  description,  are  in  active 
competition  for  the  ears  and  hearts  of  the  masses.  The 
people,  too,  having  great  advantages  for  education,  and 
no  reverence  for  prescriptive  authority,  demand  the  best 
forms  of  Christian  address,  and  such  appeals  to  their  rea- 
son and  their  emotions  as  challenge  their  respect.  To 
none  of  these  conditions  docs  a true  Christianity  object, 
since  it  relies  for  its  propagation  upon  truth  and  legit- 
imate persuasion.  Nevertheless,  these  circumstances 
make  it  obligatory  on  preachers  of  the  Gospel  to  com- 
prehend well  their  vocation,  and  the  manner  of  “rightly 
dividing  the  truth.”  That  this  necessity  is  more  and 
more  recognised  is  an  omen  of  promise  to  the  Church 
of  the  future,  especially  as  facilities  for  the  easier  and 
better  comprehension  of  this  branch  of  the  minister’s 
work  increase. 

III.  Principles. — Homiletics,  in  a human  point  of  view, 
may  thus  be  considered  a progressive  science.  It  grows 
with  the  growing  experience  of  the  Church,  and  be- 
comes enriched  with  the  ever-accumnlating  examples 
of  good  and  great  preachers.  It  avails  itself  of  the 
agency  of  the  press  to  perpetuate  specimens  of  the  ever- 
multiplying  homilctieal  productions  of  successive  gener- 
ations, and  also  to  discuss  the  great  problems  of  human 
destiny  and  influence.  Thus  the  modern  study  and  dis- 
cussions of  homiletics  have  had  a tendency  to  place  the 
subject  in  a clearer  light,  and  to  make  it  more  justly 
comprehensible  than  it  has  been  at  any  former  period 
since  the  days  of  the  apostles.  This  result  has  not  been 
attained  by  means  of  modern  inventions,  but  rather  bv 
a return  to  the  original  idea  of  preaching,  as  indicated 
and  illustrated  by  the  author  and  finisher  of  the  Chris- 
tian faith;  at  the  same  time,  all  science  is  made  auxil- 
iary to  the  Saviour’s  grand  design  in  the  appointment 
of  preaching  as  an  instrumentality  for  the  diffusion  of 
truth  and  the  salvation  of  men.  Space  only  remains 
for  a brief  summary  of  demonstrated  and  now  generally 
accepted  homilctieal  principles. 

1.  The  true  Idea  of  Preaching. — Preaching  is  an  orig- 
inal and  peculiar  institution  of  Christianity.  It  was 
not  derived  from  any  pre-existing  system.  It  had  no 
proper  counterpart  even  in  Judaism,  although  a limited 
teaching  office  was  committed  to  both  the  priests  and 
prophets  of  the  Jewish  dispensation.  See  Prophet. 
Old-Testament  examples  of  persons  called  preachers, 
like  Noah,  Solomon,  and  Ezra,  fall  far  below  the  idea  of 
preaching  as  appointed  by  Christ.  See  Apostle.  Only 
in  the  Messianic  prophecies  was  the  office  of  Christian 


evangelism  clearly  foreshadowed  (see  Isa.Lxi,  1,2).  See 
Gospel.  In  the  fulness  of  time,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
recognising  his  predicted  mission,  authoritatively  es- 
tablished and  appointed  the  office  and  work  of  preach- 
ing as  a principal  means  of  evangelizing  the  world.  See 
Preaching.  In  preparation  for  this  office  he  instruct- 
ed his  disciples  both  by  precept  and  example,  giving 
them  before  his  ascension  a world-wide  commission  to 
“go  and  teach  all  nations,”  and  “preach  the  Gospel  to 
every  creature.”  In  this  appointment  the  Saviour  avail- 
ed himself  of  no  pre-existing  rhetorical  system,  but 
rather  a universal  capacity  of  the  human  race  now  for 
the  first  time  specially  devoted  to  the  divine  use,  and 
consecrated  to  the  propagandise]  of  revealed  truth.  See 
Jesus  Christ.  Yet  he  left  his  followers  free  to  adopt, 
as  auxiliary  to  their,  great  work,  whatever  good  thing 
might  be  derived  from  human  study,  whether  of  logic, 
rhetoric,  or  any  other  science.  Thus,  as  Christianity 
multiplied  its  achievements  and  extended  its  influence 
along  the  ages,  facilities  for  comprehending  the  philoso- 
phy and  the  art  of  preaching  would  of  necessity  increase. 

The  peculiarity  of  the  preaching  office  is  seen  in  the 
specialty  of  its  address  for  moral  ends,  not  merely  to  the 
judgment,  but  to  the  consciences  of  men ; also  in  the 
grandeur  of  its  aims,  which  are  nothing  less  than  the 
salvation  of  the  human  soul  from  sin  in  the  present  life, 
and  its  complete  preparation  for  the  life  everlasting. 
As  the  objects  of  preaching  are  peculiar,  so  are  the  nec- 
essary prerequisites.  Of  these  a true  Christian  experi- 
ence and  a special  divine  call  may  be  affirmed  to  be  es- 
sential. The  mere  form  or  ceremony  of  preaching  may 
be  taken  up  and  laid  aside  as  easily  as  other  forms,  but 
true  preaching,  the  preaching  that  Christ  instituted  and 
designed  to  be  maintained  in  the  Church,  demands  the 
constant  power  of  an  active  faith,  a holy  sympathy,  and 
a conscious  mission  from  God. 

2.  The  Subject-Matter  of  Preaching. — In  secular  ora- 
tory, themes  are  perpetually  changing  with  circum- 
stances. In  preaching,  the  theme  is  one.  Neverthe- 
less, the  one  theme  prescribed  to  the  preacher  is  adapted 
to  all  circumstances  and  all  times.  It  may  be  summa- 
rily stated  to  be  God  manifested  in  Christ  Jesus  for  the 
redemption  of  men.  This  central  truth,  which  is  the 
special  burden  of  revelation,  embraces  in  its  correlations 
all  other  truths,  natural  as  well  as  revealed.  The  word 
of  God  should  be  considered  not  only  the  text-book,  but 
the  grand  treasury  of  truth  for  the  preacher.  In  it  he 
is  furnished  with  history,  poetry,  experience,  and  phi- 
losophy, as  well  as  perceptive  instruction  and  fidl  state- 
ments of  the  Gospel  scheme ; nevertheless,  he  may  bring 
to  its  illustration  whatever  truth  will  aid  in  its  corrobo- 
ration and  comprehension.  Still,  the  preacher’s  great 
work  must  be  to  publish  the  doctrine  of  the  cross,  “ the 
truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus.”  To  do  this  effectually,  he  not 
only  needs  an  intellectual  perception  of  its  excellence,  but 
the  consciousness  of  its  power  as  bestowed  by  the  bap- 
tism “of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  of  fire.”  Tims  the  perse- 
cuted disciples  “went  everywhere  preaching  the  word” 
(Acts  viii,  4),  and  Paul,  as  a representative  apostle,  em- 
phatically declared,  “ We  preach  Christ  crucified “ Wc 
preach  not  ourselves,  but  Christ  Jesus  the  Lord;"  “ Christ 
in  you  the  hope  of  glory,  whom  we  preach,  warning  - 
ery  man  and  teaching  every  man  in  all  wisdom,  that  wc 
mav  present  everv  man  perfect  in  Christ  Jesus”  (Col.  i, 
28)'. 

3.  Agencies  of  Ilomiletical  Preparation. — In  addition 
to  the  essential  preliminaries  of  character  and  experi- 
ence heretofore  alluded  to,  the  preacher  must  bring  to 
bear  on  his  theme  such  mental  exercises  as  will  enable 
him  to  elaborate  it  appropriately  and  to  the  best  effect. 
The  following  are  indispensable*  (1.)  Interpretation, by 
which  the  true  meaning  of  God’s  word  is  elicited.  (2.) 
Invention,  by  which  suitable  materials,  both  of  fact  and 
of  thought,  are  gathered  from  the  universe  of  matter 
and  of  mind.  Invention  is  aided  by  generalization, 
analysis,  hypothesis,  comparison,  and  diligent  exercise. 
(3.)  Disposition,  by  which  all  material  employed  is  ar- 


HOMILETICS 


318 


II03IILETICS 


ranged  in  the  most  appropriate  and  effective  order, 
whether  in  the  introduction,  argument,  or  conclusion  of 
the  discourse. 

4.  Different  Forms  of  Ilondletical  Production . — The 
proclamation  of  Christian  truth  is  not  confined  to  any 
one  form  of  address.  Our  Lord  opened  his  public  mis- 
sion by  a sermon- — the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  Most  of 
his  other  discourses  were  brief  and  informal,  and  many 
of  his  most  important  utterances  fell  from  his  lips  in 
parables  and  conversations.  The  reported  addresses  of 
the  apostles  were  exhortations  rather  than  sermons  ac- 
cording to  the  modern  idea.  In  the  early  patristic  age 
explanatory  and  hortatory  addresses  prevailed,  resulting 
in  the  homily  as  the  leading  product  of  that  period.  As 
preaching  declined  in  mediaeval  times,  the  homily  dwin- 
dled into  the  postil.  The  Reformation  brought  the  ser- 
mon again  into  use,  and  secured  for  it  the  prominence 
which  it  still  maintains.  In  addition  to  re-establishing 
the  sermon  in  its  original  prominence,  modem  Christian- 
ity has  developed  the  platform  address,  in  which  a semi- 
seeidar  style  of  oratory  is  made  auxiliary  to  various 
phases  of  Christian  benevolence.  At  the  present  time, 
it  is  essential  to  both  ministers  and  laymen,  who  would 
participate  in  the  most  prominent  activities  of  the 
Church,  such  as  Sunday-schools  and  missionary  efforts, 
that  they  should  cultivate  the  talent  of  effective  plat- 
form speaking.  Nevertheless,  the  sermon  is  likely  to 
remain  as  it  was  in  the  beginning,  the  first  and  most 
important  of  homiletical  productions.  Hence  it  should 
be  specially  studied,  and  thoroughly  comprehended  in 
all  its  capacities  and  bearings,  as  the  standard  form  of 
clerical  Christian  address.  See  Sermon. 

5.  Style  and  Qualities  of  Sermons. — It  is  due  to  the 
dignity  of  Christian  truth  that  the  words  in  which  it  is 
uttered  shoidd  be  well  chosen  and  fitly  arranged.  Hence 
the  general  qualities  of  a good  style,  such  as  purity, 
precision,  perspicuity,  unity,  and  strength,  should  be  re- 
garded as  of  primary  and  absolute  necessity  in  pulpit 
style.  At  the  same  time,  Christian  discourse  sternly 
rejects  all  the  faults  of  style  which  rhetorical  laws  con- 
demn, such  as  dryness,  tautology,  floridity,  and  bom- 
bast. Preaching  also  requires  more  than  mere  rhetoric. 
In  order  to  its  higher  objects,  it  demands  certain  pecul- 
iar combinations,  such  as  a blending  of  dignity  with 
simplicity,  of  agrceableness  with  pointedness,  and  of 
energy  with  love.  The  style  of  the  sermon  should  at 
once  be  fuUy’-  within  the  comprehension  of  its  hearers, 
and  yet  elevated  by  a certain  scriptural  congruitv,  which 
shows  that  it  emanated  from  eommimion  with  God,  and 
a familiarity  with  his  inspired  word. 

Beyond  mere  verbal  expression,  sermons  should  pos- 
sess several  important  qualities.  (1.)  They  should  be 
evangelical , setting  forth  the  unadulterated  truth  of  the 
Gospel  in  its  just  proportions,  and  in  an  evangelical 
spirit.  (2.)  Sermons  should  be  interesting.  To  this 
end,  the  preacher  must  be  deeply  interested  himself. 
He  must  utter  his  thoughts  with  clearness  and  vivid- 
ness. lie  must  use  frequent  illustrations.  He  must 
group  things  new  and  old  in  just  and  graphic  combina- 
tions. (3.)  Sermons  should  be  instructive.  The  minis- 
ter of  the  Gospel  must  never  forget  the  Saviour’s  com- 
mand to  teach.  Hence  even’-  sermon  should  be  tribu- 
tary to  the  diffusion  of  knowledge  as  well  as  holiness. 
(4.)  Sermons  should  be  efficient.  Failing  to  accomplish 
some  of  the  special  objects  of  preaching,  they  are  failures 
themselves.  Hence  their  great  essentiality  must  be 
considered  an  adaptation  to  high  and  true  religious  re- 
sidts.  If  possible,  all  these  qualities  should  he  combined 
in  every  sermon,  though  in  proportions  to  suit  occasions. 

6.  Delivery.  — Four  different  modes  of  delivery  are 
recognised  in  Christian  oratory:  (1.)  the  extemporane- 
ous; (2.)  the  recitative;  (3.)  that  of  reading;  (4.)  the 
composite , in  which  two  or  all  of  the  foregoing  are  blend- 
ed. The  last  finds  little  favor  among  theorists,  and  is 
rarely  practiced  with  any  high  degree  of  success.  The 
first  is  the  normal  mode  of  human  speech.  No  other 
was  practiced  by  the  Great  Preacher,  the  apostles,  or 


| the  early  fathers.  Recitative  came  into  the  Church  in 
the  4th  and  5th  centuries,  and  reading  in  the  16th. 
Few  questions  pertaining  to  Homiletics  have  during 
the  last  300  years  been  more  zealously  discussed  than 
the  relative  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  differ- 
ent modes  of  pulpit  delivery.  While  it  may  justly  be 
conceded  that  each  mode  has  both  advantages  and  dis- 
advantages, especially  when  considered  in  reference  to 
the  peculiar  capacity  of  individuals,  yet  it  may  be  af- 
firmed as  the  result  of  all  discussion  and  experience 
that  the  primitive  mode  of  extemporaneous  address  is 
commended  by  the  best  modern  opinion  as  a gift  to  be 
earnestly  coveted  by  every  minister  of  the  Gospel,  and 
as  a result  of  proper  effort  within  the  reach  of  most,  if 
not  all  earnest  preachers. 

7.  Conditions  and  Elements  of  Success  in  Preaching. — 
Mere  eloquence,  although  a great  auxiliary,  is  not  of  it- 
self a guaranty  of  success  in  the  proclamation  of  God’s 
word.  There  is  an  infinite  difference  between  the  form 
and  the  power  of  preaching.  The  form  is  easy;  the 
power  is  the  gift  of  God  crowning  the  highest  human 
effort.  To  attain  this  great  gift  various  conditions  are 
prerequisite.  A preacher  must  have  clear  and  abiding 
conceptions  of  the  dignity  and  overwhelming  impor- 
tance of  bis  sacred  vocation.  ’With  these  must  be  as- 
sociated a consuming  love  for  his  work,  evidenced  by 
tireless  diligence  and  unslumbering  faithfulness  in  its 
discharge.  He  must  make  preaching  his  great  busi- 
ness, his  absorbing  employment.  He  must  have  discre- 
tion in  the  adaptation  of  his  subjects,  and  style  of  ad- 
dress both  to  his  hearers  and  to  occasions.  He  must 
cidtivate  the  habit  of  making  all  his  observations,  read- 
ing, and  experience  subservient  to  his  capacity  of  in- 
struction and  religious  impression.  Above  all,  lie  must 
aim  at  the  supreme  glory  of  God,  and  at  the  end  of  his 
most  earnest  efforts  depend  with  trustful  confidence 
upon  the  divine  blessing  to  give  efficiency  to  his  labors, 
and  crown  them  with  success.  See  Pastoral.  Care. 
(D.  P.  K.) 

IV.  Additional  Treatises. — 1 . Foreign  (Latin,  French, 
and  German) : Lange  (Joannes),  Oratorio,  sacra  (Frankf. 
and  Lpz.  1707, 8vo;  Halle,  1713, 8vo)  ; Yitringa  (Camp.), 
A jiimadversiones  ad  Method,  homiliar.  ecclesiastical',  rite 
instituendar.  (Jena,  1722,  8vo) ; Maitre  (J.  II.  Le),  Re- 
flexions sur  la  memiere  de  precher  (Halle,  1745,  8vo); 
Ilollebeck  (Eberhard),  De  Opt.  Concionnm  genere  (Leyd. 

' 1768, 8vo);  Ammon  (C.  F.),  Ilemdbncli  d.Anleit.  z.Kan- 
zelberedsamkeit  (Gbtt.  1799;  3d  edit.  Numb.  1858, 8vo); 
Gesch.  d.  Ilomiletik  v.  IIuss  b.  Luther  (Gbtt.  1804, 8vo)  ; 
Tittmann  (J.  A.  H.),  Lehrb.  d.  Ilomiletik  (Breslau,  1804; 
2d  ed.  Lpz.  1824, 8vo) ; Schott  (A.  H.),  Entw.  eincr  The- 
orie  d.  Beredsamkeit,  mit  besonderer  A mrend.  a.  d.  Kan- 
zelberedsamkeit  (Lpz.  1807, 1815, 8vo)  ; Theorie  d.  Bered- 
samkeit (Lpz.  1815-28;  2d  edit.  1828-47,3  vols.  in  4 pts. 
8vo) ; Fenelon  (Fr.  Salignac  de  la  Motte),  Dialogues  sur 
l' eloquence  ele  la  chaire  (Paris,  1714,  8vo;  trails},  by  Ste- 
vens, Loud.  1808;  Host.  1832,  12mo);  Dahl  (J.  Ch.W.), 
Lehrbuch  d.  Ilomiletik  (Lpz.  and  Rost.  181 1,  8vo) ; Mar- 
heinecke  (Ph.),  Grundleg.  el.  Ilomiletik  (Hamburg.  1811, 
8vo);  Theremin  (F.),  Die  Bereelsamkeit  eine  Tuegend ; 
oder  Grundlinien  e.  systemat.  Rhetorik  (Berl.  1814;  2d  ed. 
1837,  8vo) ; Kaiser  (G.  Ph.  Ch.),  Entu  urf  e.  Systems  d. 
geistlichen  Rhetorik  (Erlangen,  1816,  8vo) ; Grotefeml  (J. 
G.),  Ansicht.  Geelank.  n.  Erfahrmgen  ii.  d.  geistl.  Bered- 
samkeit (Hannov.  1822);  Ziehnert  (J.  G.),  Casued-llom- 
ilet.  und  Liturg.  (Meissen,  1825)  ; Schmidt  (A.  G.),  Die 
Ilomilie  (Halie,  1827)  ; Van  Hengel  (W.  A.),  Institutio 
oratoris  sacri  (Lngd.  1829);  Sickel  (G.  A F.),  Grundr. 
d.  christlichen  Halieutik  (Lpz.  1829, 8vo) ; Stier  (Rudolf), 
Kurz.  Grundriss  e.  bibl.  Keryktik  (Halle,  1830) ; Chene- 
viere  (J.  J.),  Observations  sur  V Eloquence  (Gen.  1834); 
Brand  (J.),  Ilandb.  d.  geistl.  Beredsamk.  (edit,  by  Hahn, 
Frankf.  1836, 1839;  new  ed. Const.  1850,2  vols.);  Zarbl 
(J.  B.),  Ilandb.  d.  Kathol.  Ilomiletik  (Landsh.  1838) ; Alt 
(J.  K.W.),  Kurze  Anleituvg  z.  Kirchl.  Bereelsamk.  (Lpz. 
1840) ; Palmer  (Ch.),  Evany.  Ilomiletik  (Stuttgard,  1842 ; 
4th  edition,  1857,  8vo) ; Ficker  (Ch.  G.),  Grundlinien  d, 


HOMILIARE 


319 


HOMILY 


evang.  Ilomilet.  (Lpz.  1847,  8vo) ; Schweizcr  (A.),  Horn- 
ilet.  d.  evang.-prot.  Kirche  (Lpz.  1848, 8vo) ; Baur  (Gus- 
tav,) GrundzUge  d.  Ilomilet.  (Giessen,  1848,  8vo) ; Gaupp 
(K.F.),  Prcict.  Theol.  (Berl.  1848,  1852,  2 vols.  8vo;  vol. 
ii,pt.i,  Homiletics);  Lutz  (J ,),IIandbuch  d. Katkol. Kan- 
zelberedsamk. (Tubing.  1851) ; Yinet  (A.),  Ilomilet ique  ou 
theorie  de  la  predication  (Paris,  1853);  Beyer  (J.H.  F.), 
Das  Wesen  d.  christl.  Predigt.  n.  Norm  u.  Urbild  d.  apos- 
tol.Prediyt  (Gottingen,  1861, 8vo) ; llagenbach  (K.  E.), 
Grundlin.  d.  Lit.  u.  llomiletik  (Leipzig,  1803, 8vo) ; Lang 
(Gust.),  Handb.  z.  homilet.  BeJutndl.  d.  Evangelien  und der 
Episteln  (Brcsl.  18G5. 1869,  8vo) ; Wapler,  Disposit.  ii.  d. 
evangel.  Peril-open  (Stendal,  1865,  8vo) ; Prcihle,  Predigt 
Entwiirfe  (2d  ed.  Nordhausen,  1865, 8 vo)  ; Rbder  (Max), 
Ilomilet.  llandbuch  z.  Gebr.  b.  Prediyten  (a  very  superior 
work,  to  be  in  5 volumes  when  completed,  Nilrnburg, 
1863  sq.  8vo) ; Thym,  Ilomilet.  Ilamlb.  (1st  part,  Griitz, 

1866,  8vo;  2d  part,  1868,  8vo) ; Zimmermanu  (Karl), 
Beitr.  z.  veryleickendtn  Ilomilet.  (Darmst.  and  Lpz.  1866, 
8vo) ; Palmer  (Chr.),  Evangel.  Ilomilet.  (5tli  ed.  Stuttg. 

1867,  8vo)  ;•  Geissler  (M.),  Pred.-Entwurfe  mit  An'leit.  z. 
Predigt- A nsarbeiten  (Ilamb.  1867,  Svo) ; Meineke  ( J.  H. 
F.),  Tagl.  Handb.  fur  Prediger , edited  by  Dr.  Wohlfarth 
(Quedlinburg  and  Lpz.  1867,  8vo) ; Stock  (Prof.  Chrn.), 
Homilet.  Real-Lexikon  (new  edit.  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  and  Lpz. 
1867, 4to) ; Wallrotli,  Ged.  und  Anl.  z.  Predigten  (Oldenb. 

1868,  8vo);  Sommer  (J.  L.),  Predigtstudien  (Erlangen, 
1868,  Svo). 

2.  In  English:  Barecroft  (J.),  Ars  Concionandi,  or, 
Preaching, etc. (Lond.  1715;  4tbed.l751);  I )’Oyley  (Sam- 
uel), Christ.  Eloquence  in  Theory  and  Pract.  (Lond.  1718, 
12mo);  Henley  (John),  On  Action  in  Preaching  (Lond. 
1730);  Blackwell  (S.),  Method  of  Preaching  (London, 
1736,  24mo) ; Jennings  (John),  Discourses  (Lond.  1754, 
12mo);  Fordyce  (David),  Theodorus;  Dialogue  on  the 
Art  of  Preaching  (Lond.  1755,  12mo) ; Glanville,  Essay  i 
concerning  Preaching  (London,  1768, 12mo) ; Franke,  The  | 
most  useful  Way  of  Preaching  (Lond.  1790,  8vo) ; Claude 
(John),  On  the  Composition  of  a Sermon  (5th  ed.  Cambr. 
1827, 8vo ; edited  by  the  Rev.  Chas.  Simeon,  N.  Y.  1849, 
18mo) ; Bickersteth  (Edward),  On  Preaching  and  Hear- 
ing (4th  ed.  London,  1829, 12mo) ; Close  (Francis),  Ser- 
mons on  the  Liturgy  (London,  1835,  12mo) ; Williams, 
Christian  Preacher  (collection  of  treatises  by  Wilkins, 
Jennings,  Franck,  Claude,  etc.,  Lond.  1843, 12mo) ; Bev- 
eridge (Bp.  William),  Sermons  (vol.  i-iv  of  his  Works, 
Oxford,  1844-45,  8vo) ; Thesaurus  Tlieologicus  (vol.  ix 
and  x of  his  Works,  Oxford,  1847, 8vo) ; Bylaud,  Pidpit 
and  People  (1847,  8vo) ; Gouldburn  (Edward  M.),  Ser- 
mons (Lond.  1849,  Svo) ; Bussell  (W.),  Pulpit  Eloquence 
(2d  ed.  Andover,  1853) ; Short  Sermons  (London,  1855,  2 
vols.  l2mo) ; Styles,  Nature  ami  Effect  of  Evangelical 
Preaching  (Lond.  1856,  2 vols.  1 2 mo) : Moore,  Thoughts 
on  Preaching  (Lond.  1861,  cr.  Svo). 

Homiliare  or  Homiliarius  is  a term  applied  to 
a collection  containing  such  homilies  of  the  early  fathers 
of  the  Church  as  were  read  on  Sunday,  on  the  festal 
days  of  the  saints,  on  Easter,  and  Pentecost.  See  Du- 
randi,  Rationale,  bk.  vi,  ch.  i;  Fuhrmann,  Ilandworter- 
buch  der  Kirchengeschichte,  ii,  337. 

Homiliarium,  the  name  given  to  collections  of 
sermons  for  the  ecclesiastical  year,  to  be  read  in  case  of 
incapacity  preventing  the  preacher  from  delivering  a 
sermon  of  his  own.  The  idea  of  such  a collection  arose 
in  the  early  part  of  the  Middle  Ages.  The  most  cele- 
brated work  of  the  kind,  which  took  the  place  of  all 
preceding  ones,  is  that  known  as  Charlemagne’s  Homil- 
iarium (see  Neander,  Church  Hist,  iii,  174).  The  title 
of  the  Cologne  edition,  1530,  sets  forth  Alenin  as  its  au- 
thor ( Homilice  seu  mai-is  sermones  sive  condones  ad  popu- 
lum,  preestantissimorum  ecclesice  doctorum,  Ilieronymi , 
Augustini , Ambrosii,  Gregorii,  Origenis,  Chrysostomi, 
Bedce,  etc.,  in  hunc  ordinem  digestce  per  Alchuinum  Levi- 
tam,  idque  injungente  ei  Carolo  M.  Rom.  Imp.  cui  a se- 
cretis  fuit ).  According  to  other  accounts,  however— 
— and  even  to  the  instruction  by  Charlemagne  himself 


which  accompanies  the  work — Charlemagne  had  caused 
this  work  to  be  done  by  Paulus  Diacouus  because  (see 
Banke  in  the  Stud.  u.  Krit.  1855,  ii,  387  sq.)  “ the  Hours 
contained  a number  of  fragments  from  the  fathers  used 
for  reading  which  were  full  of  faults  and  badly  selected.” 
But  it  is  possible  that  both  had  a part  in  it,  Adcuin  form- 
ing the  plan  and  Paulus  Diaconus  executing  it.  The 
work  acquired  great  importance  from  the  fact  that  it 
established  more  firmly  the  system  of  Church  lessons 
introduced  by  Jerome,  which  had  heretofore  been  sub- 
ject to  various  alterations.  See  Herzog,  Real-Ency- 
ldop.  vi,  249  sq. ; Bheiuwald,  Kirchl.  Arclidol.  p.  276; 
Siegel,  Handb.  d.  christl.-kirchl.  Alterth.  ii,  331;  Nean- 
der, Ch.  History,  iii,  126;  Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  35;  and 
the  art.  Homily. 

Homilies.  See  Homily. 

Homilists.  Among  the  homilists  who  have  dis- 
tinguished themselves  in  the  primitive  Church,  Origen 
(3d  century)  ranks  first.  The  schools  of  Alexandria 
and  Antioch  appear  to  have  been  the  great  centres  of 
this  class  of  sacred  literature,  and  in  the  early  centuries 
we  find  the  names  of  Hippolytus,  Mctrodorus,  Clement 
of  Alexandria,  and  Gregory  Thaumaturgus  principally 
distinguished.  But  it  was  in  the  following  centuries 
that  the  homily  received  its  full  development  in  the 
hands  of  the  early  Greek  fathers  Ephraim  the  Syrian, 
Athanasius,  the  two  Gregories  of  Nazianzum  and  of 
Nyssa,  Basil  the  Great,  Chrysostom,  the  two  Cyrils  of 
Alexandria  and  of  Jerusalem,  and  Theodoret;  in  the 
Latin  Church,  Cyprian,  Ambrose,  Augustine,  Leo  the 
Great,  Gregory  the  Great,  Peter  Chrysologus,  Fulgen- 
tius.  and  Ciesar  of  .Cries.  In  later  centuries,  Venerable 
Bede,  the  popes  Sabinian,  Leo  II  and  III,  Adrian  I,  and 
the  Spanish  bishops  Isidore  of  Seville  and  Ildcfonsus, 
continued  to  use  the  homiletic  form. — Chambers,  Cy- 
clop, v,  309.  See  Catechetics;  Catechists;  Homi- 
letics; Homiliarium;  Homily. 

Homilius,  Gottfried  August,  one  of  the  most 
celebrated  German  organists  and  Church  composers  of 
the  18th  century,  was  born  at  Boscnthal  Feb.  2,  1714. 
In  1742  he  became  organist  at  the  “Frauenkirclie”  at 
Diesden,  and  in  1755  was  promoted  musical  director. 
He  died  June  1,  1785.  Among  his  published  musical 
works  those  considered  best  are,  Pass ionscani ate  (1755), 
and  Weihnachtscantate  (1777). — Brockhaus,  Corn-.  Lex. 
viii,  76. 

Homily  (Gr.  b/uXia,  communion,  a meeting;  hence 
a discourse  adapted  to  the  people),  the  name  of  a certain 
class  of  sermons.  It  is  now  applied  to  a simple  exposi- 
tion of  a text,  in  contradistinction  from  the  discussion 
of  a topic.  In  ihe  early  Church  the  term  Xbyoc,  ora- 
tion, was  applied  to  less  familiar  discourses;  bpiXia  to 
the  plainer,  much  as  the  term  lecture  is  now  used. 

1.  The  distinction  between  the  homily  and  the  ser- 
mon is  thus  set  forth  by  Yinet . “The  special  character 
of  the  homily  is,  not  that  it  has  to  do  most  frequently 
with  recitals,  or  that  it  is  more  familiar  than  other  dis- 
courses, but  that  its  chief  business  is  to  set  in  relief  the 
successive  parts  of  an  extended  text,  subordinating 
them  to  its  contour,  its  accidents,  its  chances,  if  we  may 
so  speak,  more  than  can  be  done  in  the  sermon,  properly 
so  called.  Nothing  distinguishes,  essentially,  the  hom- 
ily from  the  sermon  except  the  comparative  predomi- 
nance of  analysis ; in  other  terms,  the  prevalence  of 
explanation  over  system.  The  difficulty  as  to  unity  pre- 
sented by  this  kind  of  discourse  never  amounts  to  im- 
possibility. We  do  not  at  random  cut  from  the  general 
text  of  the  sacred  book  the  particular  text  of  a homily. 
The  selection  is  not  arbitrary.  The  limit  of  the  text  is 
predetermined  bv  reference  to  unity,  which,  therefore, 
we  shall  be  at  no  loss  to  discover  in  it.  The  only  dan- 
ger is  that  unity  of  snbject  will  be  relinquished,  as  the 
thread  of  a path  may  be  buried  and  lost  beneath  an  in- 
tertwined and  tufted  vegetation.  As  the  preacher  ap- 
pears to  be  more  sustained  by  his  text  in  the  homily 
than  in  the  synthetic  sermon,  the  former  is  thought  to 


HOMILY 


320 


HOMILY 


be  more  easy  of  execution.  It  certainly  is  more  easy 
to  make  a homily  than  a sermon,  but  a good  sermon 
is  made  with  more  facility  than  a good  homily.  The 
great  masters  in  the  art  of  preaching — Bourdaloue,  for 
example— have  not  succeeded  in  homily.  The  most 
excellent  judges  in  the  matter  of  preaching  have  rec- 
ommended the  homily”  {Homiletics,  p.  148  sq.). 

2.  In  the  primitive  Church  we  find  the  style  of  the 
homily  already  in  the  discourses  of  Christ  and  his  apos- 
tles. They  frequented  the  synagogues  of  the  Jews 
wherever  they  went,  and  in  these  it  was  customary,  af- 
ter the  reading  of  the  Scriptures,  to  give  an  invitation 
to  any  one  to  comment  upon  what  had  been  read.  In 
this  way  the  disciples  frequently  took  occasion  to  speak 
of  Christ  and  his  doctrines.  Thus  we  find  in  the  Acts 
(i,  15;  ii,  14;  iv,  7 ; v,  29;  vi,  34;  xiii,  40,  41:  xvii,  22; 
xx,  18;  xxii,  xxiii,  xxvi)  brief  notices  of  several  ad- 
dresses made  by  Peter  and  Paul,  and  one  by  Stephen, 
which  give  us  quite  a distinct  impression  of  their  style 
of  address.  Tertullian  and  Justin  Martyr  inform  us 
that  a like  practice  was  common  in  the  churches  of 
Africa  and  Asia.  “ We  meet  together  to  read  the  Holy 
Scriptures,  and,  when  circumstances  pennit,  to  admonish 
one  another.  In  such  sacred  discourse  we  establish  our 
faith,  we  encourage  our  hope,  we  confirm  our  trust,  and 
quicken  onr  obedience  to  the  word  by  a renewed  appli- 
cation of  its  truths”  (Tertullian,  A pol.  p.  39). 

(«)  A similar  mode  of  discourse  we  find  again  in  the 
early  Greek  Church,  beginning  with  Origen  (A.D.  320). 
This  was  in  some  respects,  however,  a new  style  of  ad- 
dress, as  it  inclined  to  an  allegorical  mode  of  interpret- 
ing the  Scriptures.  But,  aside  from  this  characteristic, 
the  sermons,  or,  rather,  homilies  of  this  period,  were  soon 
followed  by  all  the  preachers,  as  Origen  was  considered 
by  all  a standard  who  was  to  be  imitated,  while  there 
were  others  less  commendable.  In  general  they  were 
faulty  in  style,  corrupt  with  “philosophical  terms  and 
rhetorical  flourishes,  forms  of  expression  extravagant 
and  farfetched,  Biblical  expressions  unintelligible  to  the 
people,  unmeaning  comparisons,  absurd  antitheses,  spir- 
itless interrogations,  senseless  exclamations,  and  bom- 
bast.” The  causes  which  contributed  to  form  this  style 
are  due  to  the  prevalence  of  pagan  philosophy  among 
the  Christian  preachers  of  this  time,  many  of  whom  were 
converts  from  paganism,  and  had  received  an  imperfect 
preparation  before  entering  on  the  discharge  of  their 
sacred  office. 

(ft)  In  the  early  Latin  Church,  the  homilies  of  this 
period  are,  if  anything,  even  greatly  inferior  to  those  in 
the  Greek.  The  cause  of  this  was,  as  in  the  Greek 
Church,  the  imperfect  education  of  those  in  the  minis- 
try, more  especially  their  ignorance  of  the  original  lan- 
guages of  the  Bible.  See  Esclienburg,  Versuch  e.  Gesch. 
der  offentl.  Religionsvortreige,  p.  300  sq. 

3.  In  the  Church  of  Iiome,  at  an  early  period,  when 
few  of  the  priests  were  capable  of  preaching,  discourses 
were  framed  out  of  the  fathers,  chiefly  expository,  to  be 
read  from  the  pulpits.  These  were  also  called  homilies. 
See  1 1 om  ilia  ui  cm. 

4.  In  England,  homilies  were  early  in  use  in  the  An- 
glo-Saxon Church.  yElfric,  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
who,  after  Alfred,  ranks  first  among  the  Anglo-Saxon 
vernacular  writers,  finding  that  but  few  persons  of  his 
day  (latter  part  of  the  10th  century)  could  read  the 
Gospel  doctrines,  as  they  were  written  in  the  Latin,  the 
language  of  the  Church,  was  led  to  compile  a collection 
of  eighty  homilies,  some  of  which  were  perhaps  written 
by  himself,  but  most  of  which  he  translated  from  the 
Latin.  In  these  Anglo-Saxon  homilies  “almost  even' 
vital  doctrine  which  distinguished  the  Bomisli  from  the 
Protestant  Church  meets  with  a direct  contradiction,” 
and  they  proved  of  no  little  value  in  the  religious  con- 
troversy at  the  period  of  the  English  Reformation. 
They  condemn  especially,  among  other  things,  without 
reserve,  the  doctrine  of  transubstantiation  (q.  v.)  as  a 
growing  error,  and  go  to  prove  that  the  novelties  which 
are  generally  charged  to  the  Protestants  are  really  of 


older  date  than  the  boasted  argument  of  apostolical  tra- 
dition. Some  of  the  MSS.  of  these  homilies,  however, 
which  had  been  stored  away  in  monastic  libraries,  are 
found  to  be  mutilated  by  the  removal  of  all  such  obnox- 
ious passages  (comp.  Soames,  Inquiry  into  the  Doctrines 
of  the  Anglo-Saxon  Church,  Bampton  Lecture,  Oxford, 
1830,  8vo).  A second  collection  of  ^Elfric’s,  undertaken 
at  the  request  of  Ethehvard,  commemorates  the  differ- 
ent saints  revered  by  the  Anglo-Saxon  Church,  and, 
like  the  former  collection,  was  divided  into  two  bocks. 
Of  these  homilies  were  published,  An  English- Saxon 
Ilomilg  on  the  Birthday  of  St.  Gregory , used  anciently  in 
the  English-Saxon  Church,  giving  an  Account  of  the 
Conversion  of  the  English  from  Paganism  to  Christian- 
ity, transl.  into  mod.  Engl,  with  notes,  etc.,  by  Elizabeth 
Elstob  (Loud.  1709,  8vo ; new  ed.  Lond.  1839,  8vo) ; El- 
frici  Homiliee,  ed.  Eliz.  Elstob  (of  which  only  36  pages 
were  ever  published ; Oxf.  1710,  fob).  Another  attempt 
was  The  English-Saxon  Homilies  of  vElfric,  transl.  by 
Eliz.  Elstob  (Oxf.  1715,  folio,  of  which  only  two  leaves 
were  printed,  now  preserved  in  the  British  Museum). 
Besides  these,  there  arc  some  Anglo-Saxon  homilies  ex- 
tant, to  which  the  name  of  Lupus  Episcopus  is  gener- 
ally affixed.  They  are  by  Wanley  {Catalog.  ofA.-S. 
MSS.  p.  140  sq.),  and  apparently  with  good  reason  at- 
tributed to  Wulfstan  (q.  v.)f  one  of  the  Anglo-Saxon 
prelates  of  the  11th  century.  “The  most  remarkable 
of  these  is  the  one  entitled  in  the  MS.  Sermo  lupi  ad 
Anglos quaiulo  Dani  maxime persecuti  sunt  eos,  in  which 
the  author  sets  before  the  eyes  of  his  countrymen  the 
crimes  which  had  disgraced  the  age  preceding  that  in 
which  he  wrote,  and  the  increasing  wickedness  of  their 
own  time.”  See  Wright,  Biog.  British  Lit.  p.  487  sq., 
506  sq.  See  ^Elfric. 

5.  In  the  Church  of  England,  the  term  homily  has 
acquired  a special  meaning  from  the  fact  that  in  the 
time  of  the  Beformation,  a number  of  easy  and  simple 
discourses  were  composed  to  be  read  in  the  churches. 
“ The  Thirty-fifth  Article  of  religion  says, 1 The  second 
Book  of  Homilies,  the  several  titles  whereof  we  have 
joined  under  this  article,  doth  contain  a godly  and  whole- 
some doctrine,  and  necessary  for  these  times,  as  doth  the 
former  Book  of  Homilies,  which  Avere  set  forth  in  the 
time  of  Edward  VI ; and,  therefore,  we  judge  them  to  be 
read  in  churches  by  the  ministers,  diligently  and  distinct- 
ly, that  they  may  he  understanded  of  the  people.’  The 
following  are  the  titles  of  the  homilies:  1.  Of  the  right 
use  of  the  church.  2.  Against  peril  of  idolatry.  3.  Of 
repairing  and  keeping  clean  of  churches.  4.  Of  good 
works ; first  of  fasting.  5.  Against  gluttony  and  drunk- 
enness. 6.  Against  excess  of  apparel.  7.  Of  prayer. 
8.  Of  the  time  and  place  of  prayer.  9.  That  common 
prayers  and  sacraments  ought  to  be  ministered  in  a 
know'll  tongue.  10.  Of  the  reverend  estimation  of  God’s 
Word.  1 1 . Of  alms-doing.  12.  Of  the  nativity  of  Christ. 
13.  Of  the  passion  of  Christ.  14.  Of  the  resurrection  of 
Christ.  15.  Of  the  worthy  receiving  of  the  sacrament 
of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ.  16.  Of  the  gifts  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  17.  For  the  Rogation  days.  18.  Of  the 
state  of  matrimony.  19.  Of  repentance.  20.  Against 
idleness.  21 . Against  rebellion.” 

“ The  first  volume  of  these  homilies  is  supposed  to 
have  been  composed  by  archbishop  Cranmer  and  bishops 
Ridley  and  Latimer  at  the  beginning  of  the  Reforma- 
tion, when  a competent  number  of  ministers  of  sufficient 
abilities  to  preach  in  a public  congregation  w'as  not  to 
be  found.”  It  Avas  published,  as  already  stated,  in  the 
article  above  cited,  in  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  Ed- 
Avard  VI.  The  second  A'olumc  Avas  perhaps  prepared 
under  Edward  YI,  but  it  Avas  not  published  mitil  1563, 
during  the  reign  of  Elizabeth  (comp.  IlardAvick,  Church 
History  during  the  Reformation,  p.  206,  211,  249).  “In 
neither  of  these  books  can  the  several  homilies  be  as- 
signed to  their  several  authors  Avith  any  certainty.  In 
the  second  book  no  single  homily  of  them  all  has  been 
appropriated.  In  the  first,  that  on  ’Salvation’  Avas  prob- 
ably AATitten  by  Cranmer,  as  also  those  on  ‘ Faith’  and 


IIONERT 


HOMINES  INTELLIGENT!^  321 


* Good  Works.’  Internal  evidence,  arising  out  of  certain 
homely  expressions  and  peculiar  forms  of  ejaculation, 
the  like  of  which  appear  in  Latimer’s  sermons,  pretty 
clearly  betray  the  hand  of  the  bishop  of  Worcester  as 
having  been  engaged  in  the  homily  against  ‘Brawling 
and  Contention;’  the  one  against  ‘Adultery’  may  be 
safely  given  to  Thomas  Beeon,  one  of  Cranmer’s  chap- 
lains*, in  whose  works,  published  in  15G4,  it  is  still  to  be 
found;  of  the  rest  nothing  is  known  but  by  the  merest 
conjecture.  All  members  of  the  Church  of  England 
agree  that  the  homilies  ‘contain  a godly  and  wholesome 
doctrine.’  but  they  arc  not  agreed  as  to  the  precise  de- 
gree, of  authority  to  be  attached  to  them.  In  them,  the 
authority  of  the  fathers  of  the  first  six  general  councils, 
and  of  the  judgments  of  the  Church  generally,  the  holi- 
ness of  the  primitive  Church,  the  secondary  inspiration 
of  the  Apocrypha,  the  sacramental  character  of  marriage 
and  other  ordinances,  and  regeneration  in  holy  baptism, 
and  the  real  presence  in  the  Eucharist,  arc  asserted” 
(Bp.  Burnet).  One  of  the  best  editions  of  the  Homilies 
is  that  by  Corrie  at  the  University  press  (Cambridge, 

1850,  8vo),  and  the  latest,  and  perhaps  most  complete 
edition,  is  that  published  at  Oxford  (1859,  8vo).  See 
also  Darling,  Cgclop.  Bibliogr.  i,  152-1;  Whcatlv,  Common 
Prayer,  p.  27*2 ; Baxter,  Ch.  History , p.  379  s<p,  48(5  s<p ; 
Browne,  Exposit.  39  Articles,  p.  782  si].;  Wesley,  1 Vorks 
(see  Index,  vol.  vii) ; Forbes,  On  the  39  Articles,  ii,  085 
sq. ; Buchanan,  Justijie.  p.  193,  198;  Hook,  Ch.  Diet.  p. 
303. 

6.  For  the  Clementine  Homilies,  see  Clementines; 
and  on  the  points  above  given,  see  Schmidt,  Die  JJnmilie 
(Halle,  1827,  8vo)  ; August i,  Denkwiirdiyk.  a.  d.  christl. 
Archdol.  vi,  2G6  sq. ; Sell  one,  Geschiehtsforsch.  iiher  die 
Kirch/.  Gebr.  i,  74  sq.;  ii,  22G-53;  De  eonciouibiis  vo- 
ter um,  in  Hoornbeck’s  Miscellnnoe  sacra  (Ultraj.  1G89); 
Schrbckh,  Kirchengesch.  iv,  20,  21,  81  sq. ; Meander,  Ch. 
Hist.'m,  12G;  Fuhrmann,  Ilamlworterb.  d.  Kirchengesch. 
ii,  335;  Bingham,  Grig.  Eccles.  book  xiv,  eh.  iv;  Cole- 
man, Ancient  Christianity,  eh.  xviii;  Primit.  Ch.  p.  387 ; 
A postal,  and  Primit.  Ch.  xiii ; Bickersteth,  Christ,  Stud. 
Ass.  p.  325,  470;  Taylor,  .1  nc.  Christ.;  Siegel,  Ilandb. 
ekristl.-lirchl.  Alterth.  ii,  328  sq.;  London  Review,  June, 

1851,  Jan.  1857 ; Bib.  Sacr.  May  and  Aug.  1849;  Presb. 
Quart.  Rev.  April,  18G2,  art.  ii;  Methodist  Quart.  Rev.  i, 
283;  vii,  G3  sq.  See  Homiletics;  Homilists;  Pos- 
TILLE.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Homines  intelligentiae  (French  hommes  d'i.itcl- 
ligenee,  men  of  understanding),  a heretical  sect  which 
flourished  in  the  Netherlands  about  1412,  most  likely  a 
later  branch  of  the  Brethren  of  the  Free  Spirit  (q.  v.). 
It  was  founded  by  rEgidius  Cantor,  and  the  most  cele- 
brated of  their  leaders  was  the  German  Carmelite  Ilil- 
dernissen.  rEgidius  Cantor  asserted  that  “ he  was  the 
saviour  of  the  world,  and  that  by  him  the  faithful  should 
see  Jesus  Christ,  as  by  Jesus  Christ  they  should  sec  God 
the  Father;  . . . that  the  ancient  law  was  the  time  of 
the  Father,  the  new  law  the  time  of  the  Son;  and  that 
there  shoidd  shortly  be  a third  law,  which  was  to  be  the 
time  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  under  which  men  would  be  at 
full  liberty.”  They  also  held  that  there  was  no  resur- 
rection, but  an  immediate  translation  to  heaven;  and 
advanced  the  pernicious  doctrines  that  prayer  had  no 
merit,  and  that  sensual  pleasures,  being  natural  actions, 
were  not  sinful,  but  rather  foretastes  of  the  joys  of  heav- 
en. They  were  accused  of  heresy,  and,  Ilildernissen 
having  recanted,  the  sect  finally  dissolved. — Broughton, 
Biblioth.  Hist.  Sacr.  i,  405;  Herzog,  Real-  Eneyklop.  ii, 
399;  Pierer,  Univers.  Lex.  viii,  511;  Fuhrmann,  Iland- 
worterb.  d.  Kirchengesch.  p.  339. 

Homosousian  or  Homoiousian,  a term  de- 
scribing the  opinions  of  Arius  and  his  fellow-heretics, 
who  declared  the  Son  of  God  to  be  only  of  like  substance 
(pyoiovoioij)  with  the  Father.  See  Akianism. 

Komologcmmena  ( o/io\oyoift6)'«,  universally 
acknowledged ),  the  name  given  by  Eusebius  (/list.  Ec- 
cles. iii,  5, 25)  to  those  books  of  the  Mew  Testament,  of 
IV. — X 


the  canonical  authority  of  which  no  doubts  had  been 
expressed.  Eusebius  includes  under  the  term  the  four 
gospels,  the  Acts,  the  fourteen  epistles  of  Paul,  and  the 
first  epistles  of  Peter  and  John,  while  the  epistle  of 
Janies,  the  second  epistle  of  Peter,  and  the  second  and 
third  epistles  of  John,  and  the  epistle  of  Jude,  were 
placed  among  the  Autilegomcna.  In  a third  or  lower 
class,  some,  Eusebius  says,  placed  the  Apocalypse, 
though  others  placed  it  among  the  acknowledged  books. 
It  therefore  properly  belonged  to  the  Antilegomena. — 
Eadie,  Eccles.  Diet.  See  Antilegomena. 

Homoousian,  a term  used  to  describe  the  orthodox 
view  of  the  person  of  Christ,  established  at  the  Council 
of  Nice  in  opposition  to  Arius,  viz.,  that  the  Son  of  God 
is  “of  the  same  substance  (or  essence)  with  the  Father,” 
(i bjioovoioQ  Tig  n«j-|oi).  See  Akianism;  Christ,  Per- 
son of;  Tkinitv. 

Honain,  lux- Isaac,  an  Arabic-Nestorian  philoso- 
pher and  physician  of  the  Abaditc  tribe,  was  horn  near 
Ilirali  in  A.D.  809.  lie  went  to  Greece,  and  there  stud- 
ied the  Greek  language  and  philosophy,  and  returned 
to  Bagdad  with  a large  collection  of  Greek  books,  part 
of  which  he  translated  into  the  Arabic  and  Syriac.  He 
was  assisted  in  this  work  by  his  son  Isaac  Ibn-IIonaiii 
and  his  grandson  Ilobaish,  who  likewise  distinguish- 
ed themselves  as  philosophers.  In  this  manner  many 
works  of  the  Greeks  became  accessible  to  tlic  Arabians 
and  the  Syrians,  and  promoted  among  them  more  espe- 
cially the  study  of  Greek  philosophy.  It  is  to  be  re- 
gretted that  after  the  completion  of  the  translations  the 
original  works  were  burned,  according,  it  is  said,  to  a 
command  of  the  caliph  A1  Mamun.  Besides  these  trans- 
lations, Honain  wrote  largely  on  medicine,  philosophy, 
theology,  and  philology.  He  left  also  a Syriac  gram- 
mar and  a Syriac- Arabic  dictionary,  the  first  dictionary 
of  the  kind  ever  prepared.  He  died  in  877. — Ilcrbelot, 
Biblioth.  Orientate,  p.  423 ; Assemani,  Bill.  Orientate , ii, 
270,  438 ; iii,  pt.  ii,  p.  1G8 ; Krug,  Philosoph.  Lex.  ii,  455 
sq. ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xv,  75. 

Honduras.  See  Central  America. 

Hcne,  William,  an  Independent  minister,  whose 
father  is  said  to  have  been  an  occasional  preacher  among 
the  Dissenters,  was  horn  in  1779  at  Bath.  He  was 
brought  up  in  rigid  religious  notions,  and  in  his  early 
years  not  suffered  to  read  out  of  any  other  book  than 
the  Bible.  At  the  age  of  ten  he  was  apprenticed  to  an 
attorney,  but  he  finally  quitted  the  law,  and  became  a 
bookseller  in  London  in  1800.  lie  devoted  himself  at 
the  same  time  to  the  study  of  literature,  and  wrote 
several  works  on  that  subject.  In  1823  he  publish- 
ed a work  entitled  Ancient  Mysteries  described,  especial- 
ly the  English  Miracle  Plays,  founded  on  the  apocryphal 
X.-T.  Story,  extant  among  the  unpublished  MSS.  in  the 
British  Museum,  etc.  (8vo).  “This  is  a curious  work, 
not  at  all  addressed  to  the  multitude,  or  chargeable  with 
any  irreverence  of  design  or  manner,  but  treating  an  in- 
teresting antiquarian  subject  in  the  dispassionate  style 
of  a studious  inquirer.”  1 1 is  acquaintance  with  mem- 
bers of  the  “Independents”  led  him  to  join  the  Inde- 
pendent Church,  and  finally  he  became  a minister  ot  that 
society.  He  died  Nov.  G,  1842.  Hone  also  published 
7'he  Apocryphal  X.  T.  (Loud.  1820,  8vo;  4th  cd.  1821), 
for  an  account  of  which  see  Horne,  Introd.  to  the  Study 
of  the  Script.,  and  Bond.  Quart.  Rev.  vol.  xxv  and  xxx. 
See  his  Early  Life  and  Conversion  (1841.  8vo);  English 
Cyclopaedia ; Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliog.  i,  1525;  Allibone, 
Diet,  of  A uthors,  i,  874.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Honert,  Joiiann  van  den,  a distinguished  Dutch 
divine,  was  born  near  Dortrccht  Dee.  1.1G93.  His  early 
years  were  spent  in  military  service,  but  on  bis  father’s 
accession  to  a professor’s  chair  in  the  1 diversity  of  Ley- 
den he  decided  to  follow  a literary  life,  and,  after four 
years  of  study,  he  became  a candidate  for  the  ministry 
in  his  twenty-fourth  year.  In  LIS  he  was  appointed 
minister  at  Catwiek,  on  the  Bliine;  later,  at  Enkhuysen, 
and  then  at  Haarlem.  In  1727  he  was  called  as  pro- 


IIONESTUS 


322 


HONEY 


fessor  of  theology  to  the  University  at  Utrecht,  and  in 
1731  was  honored  with  the  professorship  of  Church  His- 
tory. In  1734  the  University  of  Leyden  called  him  as 
professor  of  theology,  to  which  was  added,  in  1738,  the 
department  which  he  last  filled  at  the  Utrecht  Univer- 
sity, and  in  1746  the  department  of  Homiletics.  He 
died  April  7, 1758.  A complete  list  of  his  works,  which 
in  a great  part  have  now  nearly  gone  out  of  date,  is 
given  by  Adelung  (in  Jocher's  Gel.  Lexik.  Addenda  ii, 
2123  sq.).  His  be  gratia  Dei  non  universali , sed  par- 
ticular i (Lugd.  1723,  8vo),  which  was  intended  to  serve 
as  an  intermediator  at  the  time  when  the  Calvinistic  pre- 
destinarian  doctrine  was  much  softened  by  the  French 
and  Swiss  theologians,  so  rigidly  opposed  by  many  sys- 
tematic theologians,  involved  him  in  a controversy  with 
some  of  the  Remonstrants  (q.  v.).  (Comp.  A eta  hist.  eccl. 
ii,  819  sq.)  His  0 ratio  de  hist,  eccles.  studio  Theologis 
muxime  necess.  (Lngd.  1734,  4to)  was,  like  many  other 
translations  of  German  theological  works,  of  great  value 
to  the  Church  of  his  country.  He  wrote  also  Institt. 
Theol.  (Lngd.  1735).  Honert  was  regarded  by  all  par- 
ties as  a very  scholarly  divine,  and  was  consulted  by  all 
of  them  without  distinction. — Gass,  Gesch.  der  Protest. 
Dogmat.  iii,  1862;  Fnhnnann,  Ilandwdrterb.  d.  Kirchen- 
gesch.  ii,  339  sq.  (J.  HAY.) 

Honestus,  St.  See  Damian,  Peter. 

Honey  (^2^,  debash',  sometimes  rendered  “honey- 
comb" in  composition  with  ya'ar,  or  tsnph; 
while  ST  S3  no'pheth,  singly,  is  sometimes  translated 
“honev-comb;”  Greek  giXi)  is  represented  by  several 
terms,  more  or  less  accurately,  in  the  original  languages 
of  Scripture. 

1.  ya'ar,  which  only  occurs  (in  this  sense)  in  1 
Sam.  xiv,  25,  27,  29;  Cant,  v,  1 ; and  denotes  the  honey 
of  bees,  and  that  only.  The  word  properly  signifies  a 
copse  or  forest,  and  refers  to  the  honey  found  in  the 
woods. 

2.  r S3,  no'pheth,  honey  that  drops  (from  C^3,  to  sprin- 
kle or  distil),  usually  associated  with  the  comb,  and 
therefore  bee-honey.  This  occurs  in  Psa.  xix,  10;  Prov. 
▼,  3 ; xxiv,  13 ; xxvii,  7 ; Cant,  iv,  11. 

3.  debash'  (from  its  glutinous  nature).  This  is 
the  most  frequent  word.  It  sometimes  denotes  bee- 
honey,  as  in  Jndg.  xiv,  8,  but  may  also  refer  to  a vege- 
table honey  distilled  from  trees,  and  called  manna  by 
chemists;  also  the  sirup  of  dates,  and  even  dates  them- 
selves. It  appears  also  sometimes  to  stand  as  a general 
term  for  all  kinds  of  honey,  especially  the  sirup  of 
grapes,  i.  e.  the  newly-expressed  juice  or  must  boiled 
down.  At  the  present  day  this  sirup  is  still  common 
in  Palestine,  under  the  same  Arabic  name  dibs  (Robin- 
son’s Researches,  ii,  442,  453),  and  forms  an  article  of 
commerce  in  the  East;  it  was  this,  and  not  ordinary 
bee-honey,  which  Jacob  sent  to  Joseph  (Gen.  xliii,  11), 
and  which  the  Tyrians  purchased  from  Palestine  (Ezek. 
xxvii,  17).  The  mode  of  preparing  it  is  described  by 
Pliny  (xiv,  II) : the  must  was  either  boiled  down  to  a 
half  (in  which  case  it  was  called  defrutum),  or  to  a third 
(when  it  was  called  siracum,  or  sapa,  the  atpatog  olvoe, 
and  (\pgpa  of  the  Greeks) : it  was  mixed  either  with 
wine  or  milk  (Yirg.  Georg,  i,  296;  Ovid,  Fast,  iv,  780)  : 
it  is  still  a favorite  article  of  nutriment  among  the  Syr- 
ians, and  has  the  appearance  of  coarse  honey  (Russell, 
Aleppo,  i,  82).  It  was  used  for  sweetening  food,  like 
sugar  with  us  (Exod.  xvi,  31). 

4.  vylS,  tsnph  (literally  a flowing),  denotes  rather  the 
cells  of  the  honey-comb  full  of  honey  (Prov.  xvi,  24 ; 
Psa.  xix,  11). 

5.  The  “wild  honey”  (peXi  dypiov)  which,  with  lo- 
custs, formed  the  diet  of  John  the  Baptist,  was,  accord- 
ing to  some,  the  manna  or  vegetable  honey  noticed  un- 
der debash  (No.  3,  above),  but  may  very  naturally  refer 
to  the  honey  stored  by  bees  in  the  rocks  of  Judaea  De- 
serta,  in  the  absence  of  the  trees  to  which  they  usually 


resort.  Such  wild  honey  is  clearly  referred  to  in  Deut, 
xxii,  13 ; Psa.  lxxxi,  17.  Josephus  {War,  iv,  8,  3)  spe- 
cifies bee-honey  among  the  natural  productions  of  the 
plain  of  Jericho : the  same  Greek  expression  is  certainly 
applied  by  Diodorus  Sicidus  (xix,  94)  to  honey  exuding 
from  trees ; but  it  may  also  be  applied,  like  the  Latin 
mel  silvestre  (Plin}’,  xi,  16),  to  a particular  kind  of  bee- 
honey.  A third  kind  has  been  described  by  some  writ- 
ers as  “ vegetable”  honey,  by  which  is  meant  the  exu- 
dations of  certain  trees  and  shrubs,  such  as  the  Tamarix 
mannifera,  found  in  the  peninsula  of  Sinai,  or  the  stunt- 
ed oaks  of  Luristan  and  Mesopotamia.  A kind  of  honey 
is  described  by  Josephus  (l.  c.)  as  being  manufactured 
from  the  juice  of  the  date. 

Honey  was  not  permitted  to  be  offered  on  the  altar 
(Lev.  ii,  1 1).  As  it  is  coupled  with  leaven  in  this  pro- 
hibition, it  would  seem  to  amount  to  an  interdiction  of 
things  sour  and  sweet.  Aben  Ezra  and  others  allege 
that  it  was  because  honey  partook  of  the  fermenting 
nature  of  leaven,  and  when  burnt  yielded  an  unpleasant 
smell — qualities  incompatible  with  offerings  made  by 
fire  of  a sweet  savor  unto  the  Lord.  The  prohibition 
appears  to  have  been  groimded  on  the  fermentation  pro- 
duced by  it,  honey  soon  turning  sour,  and  even  forming 
vinegar  (Pliny,  xxi,  48).  This  fact  is  embodied  in  the 
Talmudical  word  hidbish=‘l  to  ferment,”  derived  from 
debash.  Other  explanations  have  been  offered,  as  that 
bees  were  unclean  (Phil,  ii,  255),  or  that  the  honey  was 
the  artificial  dibs  (Biihr,  Symbol,  ii,  323).  But  Maimon- 
ides  and  others  think  it  was  for  the  purpose  of  making 
a difference  between  the  religious  customs  of  the  Jews 
and  the  heathen,  in  whose  offerings  honey  was  much 
employed.  The  first-fruits  of  honey  were,  however,  to 
be  presented,  as  these  were  destined  for  the  support  of 
the  priests,  and  not  to  be  offered  upon  the  altar  (2  Chron. 
xxxi,  5).  It  is  related  in  1 Sam.  xiv,  24-32,  that  Jona- 
than and  his  party,  coming  to  the  wood,  found  honey 
dropping  from  the  trees  to  the  ground,  and  the  prince 
extended  his  rod  to  the  lionev-comb  to  taste  the  honey. 
From  all  this  it  is  clear  that  the  honey  was  bee-honey, 
and  that  honey-combs  were  above  in  the  trees,  from 
which  honey  dropped  upon  the  ground;  but  it  is  not 
clear  whether  Jonathan  put  his  rod  into  a honey-comb 
that  was  in  the  trees  or  shrubs,  or  into  one  that  had 
fallen  to  the  ground,  or  that  had  been  formed  there  (Kil- 
to’s  Piet.  Bible,  ad  loc.).  Moreover,  the  vegetable  honey 
is  found  only  in  small  globules,  which  must  be  carefully 
collected  and  strained  before  being  used  (Wellstcd,  ii, 
50).  In  India,  “the  forests,”  says  Mr.  Roberts,  “liter- 
ally flow  with  honey ; large  combs  may  be  seen  hang- 
ing on  the  trees  as  you  pass  along,  full  of  honey”  {Ori- 
ental Illustrations').  We  have  good  reason  to  conclude, 
from  many  allusions  in  Scripture,  that  this  was  also,  to 
a considerable  extent,  the  case  formerly  in  Palestine. 
It  is  very  evident  that  the  land  of  Canaan  abounded  in 
honey.  It  is  indeed  described  as  “a  land  flowing  with 
milk  and  honey”  (Exod.  iii,  8,  etc.) ; which  we  appre- 
hend to  refer  to  all  the  sweet  substances  which  the  dif- 
ferent Hebrew  words  indicate,  as  the  phrase  seems  too 
large  to  be  confined  to  the  honey  of  bees  alone.  Yet 
the  great  number  of  bees  in  Palestine  has  been  noticed 
by  many  travellers;  and  they  were  doubtless  still  more 
common  in  ancient  times,  when  the  soil  was  under  more 
general  cultivation.  Where  bees  are  very  numerous, 
they  sometimes  resort  to  places  for  the  deposit  of  their 
honey  which  we  would  little  think  of.  The  skeleton 
of  a lion,  picked  clean  by  birds,  dogs,  and  insects,  would 
afford  no  bad  substitute  for  a hive,  as  in  Judg.  xiv,  8,  9 
(Kitto’s  Daily  Bible  Illust.  ad  loc.).  A recent  traveller, 
in  a sketch  of  the  natural  history  of  Palestine,  names 
bees,  beetles,  and  mosquitoes  as  the  insects  which  are 
most  common  in  the  country  (Schubert,  Prise  im  Mor- 
genlande,  ii,  120).  In  some  parts  of  Northern  Arabia 
the  hills  are  so  well  stocked  with  bees  that  no  sooner 
are  hives  placed  than  they  are  occupied  (Wellsted’s 
Trai'els,  ii,  123).  Dr.  Thomson  speaks  of  immense 
swarms  of  bees  in  the  cliffs  of  wady  Ivum,  and  compares 


HONOLULU 


323 


HONORIUS 


Dent,  xxii,  13  (Land  and  Book,  i,  460).  Prof.  Hackett 
saw  hives  in  several  places  in  Palestine  ( Illustrations  of 
Script,  p.  96).  Milk  anil  honey  were  among  the  chief 
dainties  in  the  earlier  ages,  as  they  are  now  among  the 
IJcdawin ; and  butter  ancl  honey  are  also  mentioned 
among  articles  of  food  (Isa.vii,  15).  The  ancients  used 
honey  instead  of  sugar  (Psa.  cxix,  103 ; Prov.  xxiv,  13) ; 
but  when  taken  in  great  quantities  it  causes  nausea,  a 
fact  employed  in  Prov.  xxv,  16,  17,  to  inculcate  moder- 
ation in  pleasures.  Iloncy  and  milk  are  put  also  for 
sweet  discourse  (Cant,  iv,  11).  The  preservative  prop- 
erties of  honey  were  known  in  ancient  times.  Josephus 
records  that  the  Jewish  king  Aristobulus,  whom  Pom- 
pey’s  partisans  destroyed  by  poison,  lay  buried  in  honey 
till  Antony  sent  him  to  the  royal  cemetery  in  Judaja 
(.1  nt.  xiv,  7,  4).  Sec  Bee. 

IIONEY,  a portion  of  which,  with  milk,  was  sometimes 
given  to  newly-baptized  persons  in  allusion  to  the  name 
anciently  given  to  Canaan,  and  in  token  that  they  be- 
longed to  the  spiritual  Israel.  Honey  and  milk  had  a 
distinct  consecration  (Eadie,  Eccles.  Diet.).  See  Au- 
gusti,  Christl.  A rchaol.  ii,  446  sq. ; Kiddle,  Christ.  Antiq. 
p.  519  sq. ; Whcatly,  Common  Prayer , p.  326. 

Honolulu.  See  Sandwich  Islands. 

Honor,  (1.)  respect  paid  to  superiors,  those  to  whom 
we  owe  particular  deference  and  distinction.  (2.)  It  is 
sometimes,  in  Scripture,  used  to  denote  real  services : 
“ Honor  thy  father  and  mother  (Exod.  xx,  12) that  is, 
not  only  show  respect  and  deference,  but  assist  them, 
and  perform  such  services  to  them  as  they  need.  By 
honor  is  also  understood  that  adoration  which  is  due  to 
God  only : “ Give  unto  the  Lord  the  honor  due  unto  his 
name  (Psa.  xxix,  2).”  (3.)  Specifically,  it  is  used  to  de- 

note the  testimony  of  esteem  or  submission,  by  which 
we  make  known  the  veneration  and  respect  we  entertain 
for  any  one  on  account  of  his  dignity  or  merit.  The 
word  is  used  in  general  for  the  esteem  due  to  virtue, 
glory,  reputation,  and  probity.  In  every  situation  of 
life,  religion  only  forms  the  true  honor  and  happiness  of 
man.  “ It  cannot  arise  from  riches,  dignity  of  rank,  or 
office,  nor  from  what  are  often  called  splendid  actions  of 
heroes,  or  civil  accomplishments;  these  may  be  found 
among  men  of  no  real  integrity,  and  may  create  consid- 
erable fame;  but  a distinction  must  be  made  between 
fame  and  true  honor.  The  former  is  a loud  and  noisy 
applause;  the.  latter  a more  silent  and  internal  homage. 
Fame  tloats  on  the  breath  of  the  multitude ; honor  rests 
on  the  judgment  of  the  thinking.  In  order,  then,  to  dis- 
cern where  true  honor  lies,  we  must  not  look  to  any  ad- 
ventitious circumstance,  not  to  any  single  spariding  qual- 
ity, but  to  the  whole  of  what  forms  a man ; in  a word, 
we  must  look  to  the  soul.  It  will  discover  itself  by  a 
mind  superior  to  fear,  to  selfish  interest, and  corruption; 
by  an  ardent  love  to  the  Supreme  Being,  and  by  a prin- 
ciple of  uniform  rectitude.  It  will  make  us  neither 
afraid  nor  ashamed  to  discharge  our  duty,  as  it  relates 
both  to  God  and  man.  It  will  influence  us  to  be  mag- 
nanimous without  being  proud;  humble  without  being 
mean  ; just  without  being  harsh;  simple  in  our  manners, 
but  manly  in  our  feelings.  This  honor,  thus  formed  by 
religion,  or  the  love  of  God,  is  more  independent  and 
more  complete  than  what  can  be  acquired  by  any  other 
means.  It  is  productive  of  higher  felicity,  and  will  be 
commensurate  with  eternity  itself;  while  that  honor, 
so  called,  which  arises  from  any  other  principle,  will  re- 
semble the  feeble  and  twinkling  flame  of  a taper,  which 
is  often  clouded  by  the  smoke  it  sends  forth,  but  is  al- 
ways wasting,  and  soon  dies  totally  away”  (Blair,  Ser- 
mons, Serm.  33).  (4.)  The  term  “ honor”  is  also  used  to 

denote  the  personal  quality  of  magnanimity,  especially 
in  relation  to  truth  and  fidelity.  Among  men  of  the 
world,  the  “sense  of  honor,”  so  called,  takes  the  place  of 
conscience;  perhaps  it  might  more  justly  be  said  that  it 
is  conscience,  regulated,  however,  by  the  personal  pride 
of  the  individual.  Coleridge  remarks  that  wherever 
“ genufme  morality  has  given  way,  in  the  general  opin- 


ion, to  a scheme  of  ethics  founded  on  utility,  its  place  is 
soon  challenged  by  the  spirit  of  honor.  I’aley,  who  de- 
grades the  spirit  of  honor  into  a mere  club-law  among 
the  higher  classes,  originating  in  selfish  convenience,  and 
enforced  by  the  penalty  of  excommunication  from  t he 
society  which  habit  had  rendered  indispensable  to  the 
happiness  of  the  individuals,  has  misconstrued  it  not 
less  than  Shaftesbury,  who  extols  it  as  the  noblest  influ- 
ence of  noble  natures.  The  spirit  of  honor  is  more,  in- 
deed, than  a mere  conventional  substitute  for  honesty; 
but,  on  the  other  hand,  instead  of  being  a finer  form  of 
moral  life,  it  may  be  more  truly  described  as  the  shad- 
ow or  ghost  of  virtue  deceased;  for  to  take  the  word 
in  a sense  which  no  man  of  honor  would  acknowledge 
may  be  allowed  to  the  writer  of  satires,  but  not  to  ihc 
moral  philosopher.  Honor  implies  a reverence  for  the 
invisible  and  supersensual  in  our  nature,  and  so  far  it  is 
virtue;  but  it  is  a virtue  that  neither  understands  it- 
self nor  its  true  source,  and  therefore  often  unsubstan- 
tial, not  seldom  fantastic,  and  often  more  or  less  capri- 
cious. Abstract  the  notion  from  the  lives  of  lord  Her- 
bert of  Cherburv,  or  Henry  the  Fourth  of  France,  and 
then  compare  it  with  1 Cor.  xiii  and  the  Epistle  to  Phi- 
lemon, or,  rather,  with  the  realization  of  this  fair  ideal 
in  the  character  of  St.  Paid  himself.  This  has  struck 
the  better  class  even  of  infidels.  Collins,  one  of  the 
most  learned  of  our  English  deists,  is  said  to  have  de- 
clared that,  contradictory  as  miracles  appeared  to  his 
reason,  he  would  believe  in  them  notwithstanding  if  it 
coidd  be  proved  to  him  that  St.  Paul  had  asserted  any 
one  as  having  been  worked  by  himself  in  the  modern 
sense  of  the  word  miracle adding,  '•St.  Paid  mas  so 
perfect  a gentleman,  and  a man  of  honor!'  I know  not 
a better  test.  Nor  can  I think  of  any  investigation 
that  would  be  more  instructive  where  it  would  be  safe, 
but  none,  likewise,  of  greater  delicacy  from  the  proba- 
bility of  misinterpretation  than  a history  of  the  rise  of 
honor  in  the  European  monarchies  as  connected  with 
the  corruptions  of  Christianity,  and  an  inquiry  into 
the  specific  causes  of  the  ineffieaey  which  has  attended 
the  combined  efforts  of  divines  and  moralists  against 
the  practice  and  obligation  of  duelling.”  Of  the  mere- 
ly worldly  sense  of  honor,  Carlyle  remarks,  sharply 
enough,  that  it  “reveals  itself  too  clearly  as  the  daugh- 
ter and  heiress  of  our  old  acquaintance,  Vanity”  ( Essays , 
ii,  74).  Montesquieu  remarks  that  what  is  called  honor 
in  Europe  is  unknown,  and  of  course  unnamed,  in  Asia; 
and  that  it  would  be  difficult  to  render  the  term  intelli- 
gible to  a Persian.”  See  Montesquieu,  Spirit  of  Lairs, 
bk.  iii,  ch.  viii ; Coleridge,  Friend,  p.  377. 

Honoratus,  St.,  a Manicluean,  and  archbishop  of 
Arles,  was  born,  according  to  Baillet,  in  Belgian  Gaul,  in 
the  second  half  of  the  4th  century.  He  belonged  to  a 
noble  family  who  were  pagans;  and  when  he  and  his 
brother  Venantius  became  Christians,  they  left  their 
country  and  parents,  and  travelled  through  Achaia,  and 
afterwards  founded  a monastery  on  the  island  of  Seri  no, 
opposite  Cannes,  which  acquired  great  celebrity.  Some 
of  the  most  eminent  bishops  and  theologians  of  the  5th 
and  6th  centuries  came  out  of  this  convent.  Honoratus 
himself  became  archbishop  of  Arles  A.I>.  426,  and  died 
A.1).  429.  See  Hoefer,  Xonv.  Biog.  Generate , xxv,  78. 

Honoratus,  St.,  bishop  of  Marseilles,  was  bom 
about  420  or  425,  and  is  said  to  have  been  educated  at 
the  school  of  Lcrins.  He  was  the  successor  of  the  cele- 
brated Tillemont  in  the  episcopacy  (probably  in  475), 
but  of  his  works  very  little  is  known  at  present.  Some 
ascribe  to  him  the  authorship  of  a life  of  St.  Hilaries, 
which  other  critics  suppose  to  be  the  production  of  'N  i- 
ventius.  He  died  about  492,  counting  pope  Gelasius  I 
among  his  admirers. — Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gener.  xxv, 
78. 

Honorius,  Roman  emperor,  son  of  Theodosius  I, 
was  born  in  384.  lie  was  named  Augustus  Nov.  20. 
393,  and  succeeded  his  father  Jan.  17,  395,  as  first  em- 
peror of  the  Western  empire,  with  Rome  as  its  capital, 


HOXOIilUS 


324 


IIONORIUS 


while  the  Eastern  fell  to  the  lot  of  his  brother  Arcadius. 
1 lonorius  was  at  this  time  only  ten  years  of  age,  anti  he 
was  therefore  put  under  the  guardianship  of  Stilieho,  a 
Vandal,  who  had  aided  him  in  ascending  the  throne, 
and  whose  daughter  Maria  he  married.  Ilonorius, 
soon  after  his  accession,  renewed  and  even  rendered 
more  stringent  his  father’s  enactments  against  heathen- 
ism ; hut  the  weakness  of  his  government,  together  with 
the  fears  or  heathenish  tendencies  of  some  of  the  gov- 
ernors, rendered  these  regidations  almost  of  no  effect  in 
several  provinces.  It  having  been  represented  to  11  o- 
norius  that  the  continued  existence  of  heathen  temples 
kept  up  the  heathen  spirit  among  the  people,  he  ordered 
(399)  that  all  such  temples  should  be  quickly  destroyed,’ 
so  that  the  people  should  no  longer  have  this  tempta- 
tion before  them.  As  the  heathen  laid  great  stress  on 
a prediction  that  Christianity  would  disappear  in  its 
3G5th  year,  the  destruction  of  their  own  temples  at  that 
time  made  great  impression  on  them.  Yet  in  some  dis- 
tricts of  Northern  Africa  the  heathen  still  remained  nu- 
merous enough  not  only  to  resist,  but  even  to  oppress 
the  Christians.  After  the  death  of  Stilieho,  Ilonorius 
modified  his  severe  course  against  heathenism : a law 
was  promulgated  for  the  Western  empire  in  A.D.  410 — 
“ ut  libera  voluntate  quis  citltum  Cliristianitatis  exciperef' 
— by  which  the  penalties  pronounced  by  preceding  laws 
against  all  who  participated  in  any  but  Christian  wor- 
ship were  suspended.  This  law,  however,  remained  in 
force  but  a short  time,  and  the  old  enactments  came 
again  into  use.  An  edict  of  410  excluded  the  heathen 
from  civil  and  military  offices,  yet  we  are  told  by  Zozi- 
mus  (v,  46)  that  such  was  the  weakness  of  Ilonorius 
that  at  the  request  of  a heathen  general,  who  declined 
continuing  in  his  service  on  any  other  terms,  the  edict 
was  at  once  taken  back.  This  vacillating,  irresolute 
prince  was  also  led  to  take  part  in  discussions  on  the 
points  of  doctrine  then  agitating  the  Church.  In  418 
he  promulgated  an  edict  against  Pelagins  and  the  Pela- 
gians and  Coelicola?,  which  was  framed  more  in  a theo- 
logical than  an  imperial  style.  lie  acted  in  the  same 
manner  towards  the  Donatists.  The  envoys  of  the 
North  African  Church  succeeded  in  obtaining  from  the 
emperor  a rule  that  the  penalty  of  ten  pounds  of  gold 
to  which  his  father  Theodosius  had  condemned  heretic 
priests,  or  the  owners  of  the  places  where  heretics  as- 
sembled to  worship,  should  only  be  enforced  against 
those  Donatist  bishops  and  priests  in  whose  dioceses  vi- 
olence had  been  offered  to  the  orthodox  priests.  In 
an  edict  Honorius  issued  against  the  Donatists  (405), 
he  condemned  them  as  heretics,  and  this  with  more 
severity  even  than  the  Council  of  Carthage  demanded. 
Later  he  appointed  a council,  to  be  held  at  Carthage 
(411),  to  decide  the  difficulty  between  the  Donatists 
and  the  orthodox  party.  The  imperial  commissioners, 
of  course,  decided  for  the  latter,  and  new  edicts  were 
published  exiling  Donatist  priests,  and  condemning 
their  followers  to  be  fined.  The  fanaticism  of  the  op- 
pressed party  was  excited  by  these  measures,  and  the 
heresy  only  spread  the  more  rapidly.  While  the  reign 
of  Ilonorius  is  thus  of  great  importance  in  the  history 
of  the  Church,  the  emperor  himself  showed  the  greatest 
want  of  energy  in  all  his  dealings,  and  his  death,  which 
occurred  in  August,  423,  cannot  he  said  to  have  been  a 
loss  to  either  the  State  or  the  Church.— Herzog,  Real- 
Encyklop.x i,  251 ; Mosheim,  Ch.  History,  vol.  i;  Gibbon, 
Decline  and  Full,  chap,  xxix-xxxiii ; Sozomcn,  Hist.  Ec- 
cles.  chap,  viii-x ; Sehaff,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  6G  sq. ; Lea,  Sacer- 
dotal Celibacy,  p.  54, 72,  83 ; Christ.  Remembrancer,  J uly, 
1808,  p.  237.  See  Donatists. 

Honorius,  an  archbishop  of  Canterbury  in  G27. 
lie  instituted  parishes  in  England;  but  litte  is  known 
of  his  life  and  works.  He  died  in  G53. 

Honorius  of  Autux  (.4  vyustodunensis),  surnamed 
“ the  Solitary,”  a scholastic  theologian  of  the  first  half 
of  the  11th  century,  is  generally  supposed  to  have  been 
bom  in  France,  and  was  connected  with  a church  at 


Autun,  in  Burgundy.  His  personal  history  is  rather 
obscure;  but  if  he  be  really  the  author  of  the  Elucidan- 
um,  a summary  of  theology,  published  in  France  as  the 
work  of  Anselm  (Paris,  15G0,  8vo),  he  deserves  to  be 
ranked  among  the  most  celebrated  men  of  his  century. 
The  Elucidarium  shows  that  Honorius  was  devoted  to  a 
practical  mysticism,  and  in  his  work  he  seems  to  have 
followed  the  new  Platoni c- August inian  theology.  He 
condemned  the  Crusades  and  pilgrimages  to  Jerusalem, 
all  decorations  of  the  altar,  the  extreme  unction,  etc. 
On  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  he  held  that  the  godhead 
consists  of  three  distinct  powers.  He  is  also  said  to  have 
been  the  author  of  a work,  De  Precdestinatione  et  libero 
arbitrio  (Col.  1552;  also  found  in  Cassander’s  Works,  p. 
G23  sq.).  In  this  work  he  holds  that  “ God’s  foreknowl- 
edge has  no  compelling  influence  upon  our  actions,  nor 
his  predestination  any  necessitating  power  over  our  fate; 
for,  as  all  futurity  is  present  to  an  omnipresent  Being, 
he  knows  our  future  acts,  because  he  sees  them  as  al- 
ready done ; and  his  predestination  to  either  life  or  death 
is  the  consequence  of  his  foreknowing  the  line  of  con- 
duct which  his  creatures  would  choose  to  pursue.”  In 
many  respects  he  agreed  with  Abelard  (q.  v.).  Ilono- 
rius  also  wrote  several  Biblical  works,  among  which  his 
Introduction  to  the  Explanation  of  Solomon's  Sony  is 
considered  as  his  best  production.  All  his  theological 
and  philosophical  works  are  collected  in  the  Eibl.  Max. 
Pair.  vol.  xx.  .See  Dupin,  Eibl.  jVouv.  des  aut.  eccl.  ix, 
154;  Gudin,  De  Script.  Eccles. ; Schrockh,  Kirchenyesch. 
xxiv,  3G1  sq. ; xxviii,  335,  41G  sq.,  427  sq. ; xxix,  341; 
Bitter,  Gesch.  der  Philos,  vii,  435  sq. ; Clarke,  Succession 
of  Sacred  Lit.  ii,  G80;  Waterland,  Works  (see  Index); 
Fuhrmann,  Handled  rierb.  d.  Kirchenyesch.  ii,  342 ; Ascli- 
bacli,  Kirclien-Lex.  iii,  321  sq.;  lloefer,  A 'our.  Bioy.  Ge- 
nerate, xxv,  19  sq.;  Darling,  Encyklop.  Biblioy.  i,  1526. 
(J.II.W.) 

Honorius  pe  Sancta  Maria,  who  was  also  known 
as  Blaise  Vauxelle,  was  born  at  Limoges,  in  France, 
July  4, 1651.  He  joined  the  Carmelites  at  Toulouse  in 
1671,  and  then  went  on  a mission  to  the  Levant.  Be- 
t urning  to  France,  he  taught  theology  for  some  years, 
anil  became  prior,  counsellor,  provincial,  and,  finally,  vis- 
itor general  of  the  French  Carmelites.  He  died  in  1729. 
The  most  important  and  useful  of  his  publications  is  en- 
titled Reflexions  stir  les  Reyles  et  sur  VUsaye  de  la  Cri- 
tique, touchant  VHistoire  de  VEylise,  les  Ouvrayes  des 
Peres,  les  A ctes  des  widens  Martyrs,  les  l les  des  Semites, 
etc.  (Paris  and  Lyons,  1712-1720,3  vols.4to).  He  wrote 
several  treatises  against  Jansenism,  and  in  favor  of  the 
bull  Unigenitus;  also  Vie  de  Saint  Jean  de  la  Croix 
(Toumay,  1724) : — Observations  sur  VHistoire  ecelesias- 
tique  de  Fleury  (Mechlin,  1726-1729): — Expositio  Sym- 
bols Apostolorum,  etc.  (Perpignan,  1689): — Traditions 
des  P'ei-es  et  auteurs  eccles.  sur  la  Contemplation  (Paris, 
1706,  2 vols.  8vo),  which  last  was  translated  into  Italian 
and  Spanish,  and  to  which  he  subsequently  added  Des 
Motifs  et  de  la  Pratique  de  V amour  de  Ditu  (Paris,  1713, 
8vo) ; etc. — Moreri,  Xouv.  Diet.  Jlistor.;  Hoefer,  A our. 
Bioy.  Gene-rale,  xxv,  83. 

Honorius  I,  Pope,  was  a native  of  the  Campania, 
and  succeeded  Boniface  V in  G25.  Ilis  general  admin- 
istration of  Church  affairs  has  been  favorably  comment- 
ed upon  by  historians,  and  his  name  is  very  prom- 
inent in  the  history  of  the  paschal  controversy  in  Ire- 
land, and  in  that  of  the  early  Anglo-Saxon  Church. 
The  feast  of  the  elevation  of  the  cross  was  organized 
during  his  time  (about  628),  and  he  was  very  active  in 
converting  the  heathen.  He  died  in  638.  Some  of  his 
letters  are  preserved  in  Labhe’s  Collect.  Conciliorum, 
vol.  iii.  Honorius  is  especially  distinguished  for  the 
part  he  took  in  the  Monothelistic  controversies  of  that 
period.  While  the  controversy  was  gaining  ground 
in  the  West,  Sergius,  patriarch  of  Constantinople, 
wrote  to  Ilonorius,  explaining  the  Monothelistic  doc- 
trines in  the  most  favorable  light,  and  suggested  that 
Honorius  should  impose  silence  on  both  parties  in  a 


HONORIUS 


325 


HONORIUS 


dispute  which  really  did  not  affect  the  substance 
of  the  Catholic  doctrine.  Misled,  it  is  alleged,  by  this 
statement  of  Sergius,  Honorius  consented,  and  even 
expressed  himself  in  language  which  would  appear 
to  condemn  the  doctrine  of  two  wills  in  Christ.  After 
his  death,  attempts  were  made  at  Home  to  exculpate 
his  memory  from  all  accusation  of  heresy,  yet  he  was 
condemned  and  anathematized  by  the  (Ecumenical 
Council  of  Constantinople  in  680,  and  this  sentence  was 
confirmed  at  different  times,  as,  for  instance,  by  Leo  II, 
who  anathematized  him  as  heretic  for  having  attempted 
apostolicam  ecclesiam — prof  ana  proditiom  imnwculatam 
subrertere  (Mansi,  x,  731).  Modern  lloman  Catholic 
historians  have  tried  in  various  ways  to  exonerate  llo- 
norius.  Baronins  says  that  the  acts  of  the  Council  of 
Constantinople  were  falsified;  Bellarmine  says  that  this 
was  the  case  with  Honoring's  letter  to  Sergius;  while 
Gamier  and  Ballerini  claim  that  lie  was  not  anathema- 
tized for  heresy,  but  propter  negligentiam.  Some  Eoman 
Catholic  historians,  however,  maintain  that  even  in  dis- 
claiming the  belief  of  two  wills  in  Christ,  llonorius 
merely  denied  the  existence  in  Christ  of  two  discordant 
or  conflicting  wills,  that  is,  of  a corrupt  and  sinful  hu- 
man will  opposed  to  the  divine  will,  and  that  he  did  not 
put  forth  any  dogmatic  declarations  irreconcilable  with 
the  strict  ultramontane  doctrine  of  infallibility.  Orsi 
went  even  so  far  as  to  maintain  that  llonorius  com- 
posed this  letter  to  Sergius  as  “a  private  teacher;”  but 
the  expression  doctor  priratus , when  used  of  a pope,  is 
like  talking  of  wooden  iron  (comp.  Janus,  The  Council 
and  the  Pope,  p.  405).  In  modern  times,  the  agitation 
of  the  question  of  papal  infallibility  has  given  a special 
interest  to  the  letters  of  Honorius.  The  champions  of 
infallibility,  following  the  lead  of  the  above-mentioned 
writers,  tried  all  kinds  of  arguments  to  explain  away 
the  assent  of  Honorius  to  the  heretical  doctrines  of 
Sergius,  without  being  able  to  adduce  any  new  argu- 
ment. The  Jesuit  Damberger  even  attempted  a full 
justification  of  the  course  of  llonorius.  Most  of  the 
Homan  Catholic  writers,  however,  admitted  that  the 
words,  though  they  may  bear  an  orthodox  construction, 
must  have  appeared  as  favoring  the  heretics,  and  that 
Honorius  probably  fell  into  a trap  which  the  shrewd 
patriarch  of  Constantinople  had  set  for  him.  The  Gal- 
ileans, and  the  opponents  of  papal  infallibility,  have  in 
general  endeavored  to  show  that  Honorius  was  really  a 
favorer  of  Monothelism.  The  ablest  treatment  of  the 
subject  from  this  school  in  the  Homan  Catholic  Church 
may  be  found  in  the  work  on  The  Pope  ami  the  Council, 
by  Janus;  two  works  by  P.  Le  Page  fienonf  (The  Con- 
demnation of  Pope  llonorius,  London,  1868);  and  [in 
reply  to  the  ultramontane  reviews  of  the  first  work  by 
Dr.  Ward,  the  editor  of  the  Dublin  Review,  and  the  Jes- 
uit Bottalla]  The  Case  of  Pope  Jfonorius  reconsidered 
(London,  1869) ; in  two  letters,  bv  the  distinguished 
French  Oratorian  and  member  of  the  French  Academy, 
P.  Gratry  ( L'evvqne  d' Orleans  et  Varcheveque  ile  Malines, 
Paris,  1870);  and  in  an  essay  by  bishop  Hefele,  pub- 
lished in  Naples,  1870.  Renouf,  whose  thoroughness 
and  keenness  is  admitted  by  all  his  opponents,  in  his 
works,  undertakes  to  prove  three  assertions : 1 . Hono- 
rius, in  his  letters  to  Sergius,  really  gave  his  sanction  to 
the  Monothelistie  heresy;  2.  llonorius  was,  on  account 
of  heresy,  condemned  by  general  councils  and  popes; 
3.  Honorius  taught  a heresy  ex  cathedra.  The  fact 
that  Honorius  was  condemned  by  general  councils  and 
popes  as  a heretic  is  admitted  by  many  of  those  Catho- 
lic writers  who  insist  that  his  words  may  be  indeed, 
though  they  are  obscure,  explained  in  an  orthodox 
sense.  Since  the  convocation  of  the  Vatican  Council  in 
18f>!),  many  Roman  Catholic  theologians  (among  them 
Dollinger  and  Gratry),  who  were  formerly  regarded  as 
personally  favorable  to  the  doctrine  of  papal  infallibil- 
ity, now,  after  a new  investigation  of  the  question, 
strongly  urge  the  case  of  Honorius  as  an  irrefutable 
argument  against  it.  The  literature  on  the  Honorius 
question  is  so  voluminous  that,  according  to  the  opinion 


of  the  learned  Dollinger,  during  the  last  130  years  more 
has  been  written  on  it  than  on  any  other  point  of  Church 
History  within  1500  years.  Recent  monographs  on  the 
subject,  besides  the  works  already  mentioned,  have  been 
written  by  Schueemann  (Stndien  iiber  die  Jlunorins- 
frage,  1864)  and  Reinerding  (licit ruye  zur  llonorius- 
und  Liberittsfrage,  1805).  It  is  also  extensively  dis- 
cussed in  a number  of  articles  in  the  theological  re- 
views, especially  those  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church, 
in  the  larger  works  on  Church  History,  and  in  particu- 
lar, since  I8G9,  in  a vast  number  of  works  treating  of 
the  question  of  papal  infallibility.  See  Inkaluiul- 
ity.  See  Richer,  Historia  ( ’oncil.  general,  i,  296 ; Du 
Pin,  I)e  untiqua  eccles.  disciplina,  p.  349;  51.  llavc- 
lange,  Eccles  he  iufallibilitas  in  fuctis  dognuiticis  (.fount, 
hist,  et  lift.  April  1,  1790);  F.  Marchcsius,  Clgpeus  for- 
tium  (1G80) ; Hoofer,  A 'our.  Bing.  Gene  rale,  xxv,  88; 
Chambers,  Cyclopaedia,  v,  407 ; Ceillier,  Hist,  ties  nut.  sac. 
xvii,  522  sq. ; Lloreute,  Die  Pupste,  i,  196-200;  Sehrockh, 
Kirchengesch.  xix,  492  sq. ; Bower,  History  of  the  Popes, 
iii,  11  sq. ; Fuhrmann,  Jfandworterb.  d.  Kirchengesch.  ii, 
340  sq. ; Neander,  Ch.  History , iii,  179,  195;  Dogmas,  ii, 
439;  Milman,  Latin.  Christianity,  ii,  1G9;  Riddle,  History 
of  the  Papacy,  i,  195;  Hardwick,  Church  Hist.  (Middle 
Ages),  p.  70  and  n,  3,  p.  75  and  n.  8 ; Ilagenbacli,  Hist,  of 
Doctrines,  vol.  ii ; 1 J est.  Review,  Oct.  18GN,  p.  239 ; Edinb. 
Rev.  Oct.  18G9,  p.  160;  Asehbacli,  Kirchen-Lexilcon,  iii, 

[ 322  sq. ; Lefevre,  in  Revue  Cat  hoi.  de  Louvain,  February, 
1870;  Ilefele,  llonorius  u.d.sechste  allgem.  Condi.  (Tub. 
1870, 8 vo).  See  Monotheism.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Honorius  II  ( Peter  Cadolaus),  Antipope,  was  elect- 
ed in  10G1,  through  the  influence  of  Henry  IV.  in  oppo- 
sition to  Alexander  II,  who  had  been  chosen  by  the 
cardinals  without  his  assent.  The  election  took  place 
in  a council  convened  at  Basle,  and  llonorius  afterwards 
went  to  Rome.  The  German  bishops,  however,  un- 
der the  influence  of  Hanno,  archbishop  of  Cologne,  sided 
with  Alexander  II  at  the  Synod  of  Augsburg,  10G2; 
and,  finally,  the  Synod  of  Mantua,  10G4,  pronounced  the 
deposition  of  llonorius,  and  he  was  obliged  thereafter  to 
confine  himself  to  the  bishopric  of  Padua,  which  he  held 
before  his  election.  Yet  he  upheld  his  pretensions  to 
the  pontifical  see  until  his  death  in  1072.  lie  was  ac- 
cused of  simony  and  of  concubinage.  He  is  generally 
not  counted  among  the  popes  on  account  of  his  deposi- 
tion.— Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vol.  v ; .Sehrockh,  Kirch- 
engesch. xxii,  382,  385  sq.;  Riddle,  1 list,  of  the  Papacy, 
ii,  1 19 ; Vetzer  u.  Welto,  Kirchen-Ler.  v,  3 1 8 sq. ; Asch- 
baeh,  Kirchen-Lex.  iii,  323.  See  Alexander  II. 

Honorius  II  (cardinal  Lambert),  Pope,  originally 
bishop  of  Ostia,  was  elected  pope  by  the  cardinals  in 
1 124,  after  the  death  of  Calixtus  II,  while  most  of  the 
bishops  assembled  at  Rome  elected  Tcbaldus,  cardinal 
of  Santa  Anastasia.  Tcbaldus,  finding  that  llonorius 
was  supported  by  the  powerful  family  ot  the  Frangipa- 
ni, and  that  the  people  were  divided  in  opinion,  to  avoid 
further  strife,  waived  his  claim.  Honorius  himself  also 
expressed  doubts  concerning  the  validity  of  his  own 
election;  lie  was  subsequently  re-elected  by  the  clergy 
and  the  people  of  Rome  without  opposition,  and  was 
consecrated  Dec.  21,  1124.  11c  refused  the  investiture 

of  the  duchies  of  Apulia  and  Calabria  to  Roger,  count 
of  Sicily;  and  Roger  having  besieged  the  pope  within 
Benevento,  llonorius  excommunicated  him ; but  after- 
wards peace  was  concluded  between  them,  and  Hono- 
rius granted  the  investiture,  lie  confirmed  the  elec- 
tion of  Lothaire  II  to  the  empire,  and  excommunicated 
liis  rival,  Conrad  of  Franconia,  lie  also  confirmed  the 
organization  of  the  order  of  Premonstratensis,  and  at 
the  Synod  of  Troyes  (1128)  that  of  the  Templars  ; and 
condemned  the  abbots  of  Cluny  and  of  Mount  < assin, 
against  whom  complaints  had  been  made,  lie  died  in 
tiie  convent  of  St.  Andrew,  Feb.  14.  1130. — English  ( //- 
c/opcedia ; Hoefer,  A "our.  Biog.  Cener.  xxv,  89;  Bower, 
1 list,  of  the  Popes,  vi,  19  sq.;  Riddle,  Hist,  of  the  Papa- 
cy, ii,  169;  Sehrockh,  Kirchengesch.  xxvi,  95  sq.;  Mil- 


HONORIUS 


326 


HONTHEIM 


man,  Lat.  Christianity,  iv,  144, 151  sq.;  Wetzer  u.  Welte, 
Kirchen-Lex.  x,  317  sq.;  Aschbach,  Kirchen-Lex.  iii,  323 
sq. 

Honorius  III  ( Cencio  Savelli ),  Pope,  a native  of 
Rome,  was  cardinal  of  St.  John  and  St.  Paul,  and  suc- 
ceeded pope  Innocent  III  in  1216.  He  showed  a very- 
accommodating  spirit  in  his  relations  with  the  temporal 
powers.  Thus,  when  Frederick  II  permitted  his  son 
Ilenry,  already  king  of  Sicily,  to  be  elected  king  of  Ger- 
many, in  April,  1220,  he  even  consented  to  officiate  at  the 
coronation  (November,  1220).  But  it  is  generally  be- 
lieved that  the  object  of  the  pope  in  consenting  so  read- 
ily to  the  desires  of  Frederick  II  was  to  gain  him  for 
the  great  crusade  against  the  Mussulmans  in  the  East 
which  he  contemplated.  This  good  understanding  be- 
tween the  pope  and  the  emperor  was  interrupted  when 
the  latter,  instead  of  proceeding  directly  to  Palestine, 
tarried  in  Apulia  and  Sicily,  and  attempted  to  regain 
those  countries.  Honorius  sent  his  chaplain,  Alatrinus, 
to  the  imperial  diet  at  Cremona  in  1226,  and  the  em- 
peror was  obliged  to  renounce  his  plan  of  aggrandize- 
ment. Honorius  even  went  so  far  as  to  threaten  him 
(1225)  with  excommunication  if  he  did  not  start  for  the 
Holy  Land  by  August,  1227,  and  he  would  probably 
have  executed  his  threat  had  not  death  interfered. 
This  conciliatory  spirit  Honorius  failed  to  manifest  to- 
wards count  Raymond  VII  of  Toulouse.  He  excited 
Louis  VIII  of  France  to  make  war  against  Raymond; 
but  neither  Honorius  nor  Louis  lived  to  see  the  end  of 
the  conflict.  He  was  also  frequently  at  variance  with 
the  nobles  and  people  of  Rome,  by  whom  he  was  a num- 
ber of  times  driven  from  the  city.  Ilis  pontificate  was 
therefore  not  a very  quiet  one.  He  died  March  12, 1227. 
Officially  Honorius  confirmed  the  organization  of  the 
Dominicans  in  1216,  and  of  the  Franciscans  in  1223. 
He  was  the  first  pope  who  granted  indulgences  at  the 
canonization  of  saints.  He  was  considered  a learned 
man  in  his  day,  and  is  supposed  to  have  been  the  au- 
thor of  the  Conjurutiones  a dversus  principem  tenehrarum 
(Rome,  1629,  8vo). — Herzog,  Real-Encyklopadie,x ol.  v; 
Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  90;  Bower,  Hist,  of 
the  Popes, x i,  216-221 ; Neander,  Ch.  History,  iv,  41, 177, 
270, 341 ; Milman,  Lat.  Christianity,  x (see  Index) ; He- 
fele,  Conciliengesch.  iii,  811  sq. ; Ebrard,  Dogmengescli.  ii, 
180;  Schrockh,  Kirchengesch, xxvi,328 ; xxv,  145  sq.,329 
sq. ; xxix,  632;  Fuhrmann,  Hunehvorterb.  der  Kirchcn- 
geseh.  ii,  341 ; Cave,  Hist.  lit.  script,  eccl.  ii,  287 ; Wetzer 
u.  Welte,  Kirchen-Lex.  x,  319;  Aschbach,  Kirchen-Lex. 
iii,  324;  Raumer,  Geschichte  d.  llohenstaufen,  iii,  307  sq. 
(J.  II.  W.) 

Honorius  IV  ( Giacomo  Savelli),  was  pope  from 
April  2,  1285,  to  April  3,  1287.  He  espoused  the  cause 
of  Charles  of  Anjou  against  the  Aragonese,  who  had  oc- 
cupied Sicily ; and  he  even  incited  to  a crusade  against 
the  latter,  qualifying  it  as  a “holy  war”  lie  distin- 
guished himself  greatly  by  his  zeal  for  the  preservation 
and  augmentation  of  the  privileges  of  the  Church,  and 
for  the  recovery  of  the  Holy  Land.  He  cleared  the  Pa- 
pal States  of  the  bands  of  robbers  with  which  they  were 
overrun,  and  imparted  a new  impulse  to  arts  and  sci- 
ences, which  up  to  liis  time  had  been  much  neglected ; 
among  other  improvements,  he  attempted  to  establish  a 
course  of  Oriental  languages  at  the  University  of  Paris, 
hut  he  did  not  succeed.  During  his  brief  pontificate  he 
is  said  to  have  succeeded  in  enriching  his  family. — 
Migne,  Piet.  Eccles. ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generede,  xxv, 
91 ; Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  301 ; Schrockh,  Kirchengesch. 
xxvi,  511  sq. ; Bower,  History  of  the  Popes , vi,  326  sq. ; 
Milman,  Latin  Christianity,  x\,  172;  Riddle,  Hist,  of  the 
Papacy,  ii,  235 ; Neander,  Ch.  Hist,  iv,  65,  627 ; Wetzer 
u.  Welte,  Kirchen-Lex.  x,  322 ; Aschbach,  Kirchen-Lex. 
iii,  325. 

Honorius,  Bartholomew,  a Pnemonstratist,  who 
flourished  in  the  second  half  of  the  16th  century,  was 
born  at  Eerfel,  in  Brabant,  became  canon  at  Floreffe, 
near  Naumur,  later  preacher  at  Helmont,  and  finally, 


being  persecuted  by  the  Calvinists,  went  to  Rome.  lie 
wrote  Admonitio  ad  fratres  inferioris  Germanics  (Her-, 
zogenb.  1578): — Hodceporicon  eelebriomm  or d inis  Prce - 
monstratensis  per  orbem  universum  Abbatiarum  (ibid, 
1584) : — Qucestiones  iheologicce  LXX  adversus  Calvinis •> 
tas  (ibid.  1586): — Elucidarium  Anselmi  Cantuariensis 
(ibid.  1586) ; and  a number  of  other,  but  less  valuable 
works. — Pierer,  Univers.  Lex.  viii,  522. 

Honter,  John,  one  of  the  apostles  of  Protestantism 
in  Transylvania,  was  bom  at  Cronstadt  in  1498;  studied 
at  Wittenberg  under  Luther,  then  went  as  a teacher  to 
Cracow,  whence  he  moved  to  Basle  to  continue  his  stud- 
ies. In  1533  he  returned  to  his  native  city,  where  he 
started  a printing  establishment,  and  published  Luther’s 
writings.  He  also  published  at  his  own  expense  a 
translation  of  Luther’s  works  in  Hungarian.  In  1544 
he  was  appointed  pastor,  and  became  quite  popular  as  a 
preacher.  He  died  Jan.  23,  1549. — Herzog,  Real-Ency- 
klop.  vi,  254 ; Hardwick,  Ch.  Hist,  of  the  Reformation,  p. 
98 ; Hist,  of  Prot.  Church  in  Hungary,  p.  59. 

Hontheim,  John  Nicolas  von  (known  common- 
ly as  Febronius),  suffragan  bishop  of  Treves  (in  Rhen- 
ish Prussia),  was  born  Jan.  27,  1701,  and  educated  at 
the  Jesuits’  college  and  university  of  that  place.  Hav- 
ing completed  his  studies,  he  went  on  a journey  to 
Rome,  and  after  his  return  (1727)  was  appointed  suc- 
cessively to  several  high  positions  in  the  Church,  and 
finally  became  suffragan  bishop  May  13, 1748,  which  post 
he  filled  until  1788.  . He  died  Sept.  2,  1790.  Ilis  His- 
toria  Trevirensis,  diplomatica  et  pragmatica  (Trevir, 
1750,  3 vols.  fol.,  with  a Prodromus,  1757,  2 vols.  fol.; 
Augsb.  1757,  2 vols.  fob)  is  considered  a work  of  great 
merit;  but  it  was  as  the  author  of  De  Statu  Ecclesue  et 
legitima  Potestate  Romani  Pontifcis  Liber  singvlaris,  ad 
reuniendos  dissidentes  in  religione  Christiana  compositus 
(Bidlioni  apud  Guillelmum  Evrard,  1763,  4to),  publish- 
ed under  the  pseudonym  of  “ Justinus  Febronius,”  that 
he  attracted  the  attention  of  the  Christian  world.  The 
daring  expressions  of  independent  thought  which  char- 
acterize the  entire  work  created  general  excitement. 
As  early  as  1763-5  he  issued  an  enlarged  edition,  and  a 
third,  still  more  enlarged,  in  1770-74.  An  abridgment  of 
the  work  appeared  in  German  in  1764,  another  in  Latin 
in  1777,  and  the  translations  into  the  various  modem 
languages  soon  made  it  known  throughout  Europe 
(French,  Sedan  and  Tar  is,  1767;  Italian,  Venice,  1767, 
etc.).  Many  Roman  celebrities  wrote  against  it,  espe- 
cially Zaccaria  (to  whose  writings  an  answer  is  given 
in  Nova  defensio  Eebronii  contra  P.  Zaccaria , BuUioni, 
1763,  3 vols.)  and  Ballerini  (De  potestate  ecclesiastica  Ro- 
man. Pontif.  et  concil.  gencralium  contra  opus  J.  Ft  Iro- 
nii  (Verona,  1768,  4to,  and  often).  Pope  Clement  XIII 
caused  the  book  to  be  entered  on  the  Index,  although  it 
was  dedicated  to  himself.  Hontheim  seeks  especially 
to  draw  a line  of  distinction  between  the  spiritual  and 
the  ecclesiastical  power  of  the  Roman  see.  He  seems 
to  say  to  bis  readers,  “ Without  becoming  Protestants, 
you  may  very  well  oppose  the  encroachments  and  abuse 
of  power  of  the  papal  court.”  The  principal  points  of 
which  the  work  treats  are,  the  constitution  of  the  prim- 
itive Church,  the  representative  character  of  general 
councils,  the  thoroughly  human  basis  on  which  rests  the 
primacy  of  the  bishop  of  Rome,  the  fatal  influence  of 
the  pseudo-Isidorian  decretals,  the  tendency  to  usurpa- 
tion of  power  by  the  nuncios,  the  illegal  influence  of  the 
mendicant  orders,  and  the  monopoly  of  episcopal  elec- 
tions possessed  by  the  chapters  at  the  expense  of  the 
rights  of  the  lower  clergy  and  the  people.  As  all  his 
assertions  are  accompanied  by  historical  proofs,  and  his 
book  contains  hardly  anything  hut  quotations  from  the 
fathers  in  support  of  his  views,  it  exerted  great  influ- 
ence. As  the  work  had  been  published  under  the  nom 
deplume  of  Justinins  Febronius,  the  system  of  Church 
government  which  Hontheim  propounded  is  generally 
called  Febronianism.  During  the  years  which  followed 
its  publication,  papal  authority  was  greatly  restricted  in 


HOOD 


327 


HOOK 


many  countries.  Hence,  as  soon  as  the  real  author  of 
the  De  /Statu  Ecclesice  was  known,  he  became  the  object 
of  ceaseless  persecutions.  Pope  Pius  VI  showed  him- 
self especially  the  enemy  of  Ilontheim.  The  ex-Jesuit 
Beck,  privy  councillor  of  the  elector  Clement  Wenceslas, 
not  satisfied  with  persecuting  Hontheim,  persecuted  also 
all  the  members  of  his  family,  most  of  whom  held  of- 
fices in  the  province  of  Trier.  The  old  man  (Hontheim 
was  then  nearly  seventy-nine),  tired  of  all  these  annoy- 
ances, and  perhaps  frightened  at  the  prospect  of  what 
he  might  still  have  to  undergo,  finally  gave  way,  and 
submitted  to  the  pope.  When  his  recantation  reached 
Rome  in  1778,  Pius  VI  held  a special  consistory  in  order 
to  apprise  the  whole  Roman  Catholic  world  of  the  event; 
but  several  Roman  Catholic  governments  opposed  the 
publication  of  the  acts  of  this  consistory  in  their  states. 
Moreover,  the  effects  of  the  dispute  had  been  too  widely 
felt  to  be  obliterated  by  a tardy  expression  of  repent- 
ance. The  author  himself  wrote  to  his  friends,  “ I gave 
way,  like  Fenelon,  in  order  to  avoid  ceaseless  annoy- 
ance. My  recantation  can  do  no  harm  to  the  Christian 
religion,  neither  can  it  in  any  way  benefit  the  court  of 
Rome ; the  thinking  world  has  read  my  arguments,  and 
has  indorsed  them.”  Some  of  the  more  liberal-minded 
Roman  Catholic  historians  say  that  Hontheim,  in  his 
(first)  recantation,  declared  his  object  to  have  been  to 
effect  a union  of  the  Roman  Catholic  and  the  Protestant 
churches.  He  believed  that  this  could  only  be  accom- 
plished by  altering  or  removing  some  of  the  institutions 
of  the  Romish  Church.  Later,  he  modified  his  recanta- 
tion greatly  by  a subsequent  Commentary  (Frankfort- 
on-the-Maine,  1781),  to  which  cardinal  Gardi  replied,  at 
the  special  request  of  the  pope.  But  eventually  Hont- 
heim made  full  submission  to  the  Church.  In  1788  he 
resigned  his  charges,  and  spent  the  last  years  of  his  life 
on  his  estate  of  Monquentin,  in  Luxemburg.  See  Iloe- 
fer,  Xouv.  Bioy.  Generate,  xxv,  91 ; Herzog,  Real-Ency- 
klop.r i,  255;  Hase,  Church  Hint.  p.  528;  Mbhler,  Sym- 
bolism, p.  45 ; Menzel,  Xeuere  Gesch.  d.  Deutschen,  xi,  456 
sq. ; Fuhrmann,  Handwbrterb.  der  Kirchenyesch.  ii,  348 
sq. ; Schrdckh,  Kirchenyesch.  xxii,  18;  s.  d.  Reform,  vi, 
532  sq.;  Walch, Xeueste  Reliy.  Gesch.  i,  145  sq. ; vii,  175 
sq.,  210  sq.,  453  sq. ; Henke,  Kirchenyesch.  vii,  133  sq. ; \ 
Baur,  Gallerie  hist.  Gemalde  d.  18'ejl  Jahrh.  iv,  402  sq. ; 
Kurtz,  Text-book  of  Ch.  History,  ii,  234;  Hase,  Ch.  Hist. 
p.  528.  On  the  Roman  Catholic  side:  Aschbach,  Kirch.- 
Lex.  ii,  745  sq. ; Wetzcr  und  Welte,  Kirchen-Lex.v,  324 
sq. ; Real-Encyklop.f  d.  Kathnl.  Deutschl.  v,  473  ; Wer- 
ner, Gesch.  d.  kathol.  Theol.  p.  209  sq.,  273,  and  especially 
Briefwechsel  zic.  d.  Churfiirsten  Clemens  Wene,  v.  Tner 
u.  d.  Weihbisch.  X.  v.  Honiheim  ii.  d.  Buck  J.  Fabronius , 
etc.  (Frankfort-a-M.  1813). 

Hood  (rp3S,  tsaniph'),  a tiara  round  the  head, 
spoken  of  a female  head-band  (Isa.  iii,  23) ; elsewhere 
rendered  “diadem,”  e.  g.  a man’s  turban  (Job  xxix,  14) ; 
the  high-priest’s  “ mitre"  (Zech.  iii,  5) ; the  king’s  crown 
(Isa.  lxii,  3,  marg.).  See  Head-dress,  etc. 

HOOD  (Saxon  hod;  comp.  Germ,  hut,  hat),  borrowed 
from  the  Roman  cuculus,  is  (1.)  the  cowl  of  a monk. 
(2.)  In  England,  an  ornamental  fold  that  hangs  down 
the  back  of  a graduate  to  mark  his  degree.  This  part 
of  the  dress  was  formerly  not  intended  for  distinction 
and  ornament,  but  for  use.  It  was  generally  fastened 
to  the  back  of  the  cope  or  other  vesture,  and  in  case  of 
rain  or  cold  was  drawn  over  the  head.  In  the  univer- 
sities the  hoods  of  the  graduates  were  made  to  signify 
their  degrees  by  varying  the.  colors  and  materials.  By 
the  fifty-eighth  canon  of  the  Church  of  England  “ every 
minister  saying  the  public  prayers,  or  ministering  the 
sacraments,  or  other  rites  of  the  Church,  if  they  are 
graduates,  shall  wear  upon  their  snrplices,  at  such  times, 
such  hoods  as  by  the  orders  of  the  universities  are  agree- 
able to  their  degrees.” — Hook,  Church  Dictionary,  s.  v.; 
Whcatlv,  Book  of  Common  Prayer , p.  102,  103. 

Hoof  (HD^D,  parsah',  cloven , i.  e.  a cleft  hoof  as 
of  neat  cattle,  Exod.  x,  26 ; Ezek,  xxii ; Mic.  iv,  13,  etc.;  i 


hence  of  the  horse,  though  not  cloven,  Isa.  v,  28 ; Jcr, 
xlvii,  3 ; “ claws”  of  any  animal,  Zech.  xi,  16).  In  Lev. 
xi,  3 sq. ; Dcut.  iv,  6 sq.,  the  “parting  of  the  hoof”  is 
made  one  of  the  main  distinctions  between  clean  and 
unclean  animals;  and  this  is  applied  even  to  the  camel, 
after  a popular  rather  than  a scientific  classification. 
See  Camel. 

Hooght,  Eberiiard  van  der,  a distinguished 
Dutch  Orientalist,  was  bom  in  the  latter  half  of  the  17th 
century.  He  was  a Reformed  preacher  at  Nieuwcn- 
dam,  but  spent  the  greater  part  of  his  time  in  the  study 
of  the  Oriental  languages,  especially  the  Hebrew,  lie 
died  in  1716.  He  wrote  Janua  linyuee  sanctee  (Amst. 
1687, 4to;  ibid.  1696  [?],  8vo): — Medulla  yramm.  Ilebr. 
(Amst.  1696,  8vo)  : — Syntaxis  Ebrira,  Chald.  et  Syr. : — 
Lex.  Novum  Test.  Grceco-Latinum,  etc.  Especially  cel- 
ebrated is  his  edition  of  the  Biblia  Hebraica  (Amsterd. 
and  Utrecht,  1705,  Oxf.  1750,  London,  1774,  and  often; 
lately  again  by  Tauchnitz,  Lpz.  1835,  and  often). — Picrcr, 
Unit,  Lex.  viii,  524;  Wolf,  Bibl.  Ilebr.  ii,  381;  iv,  117. 
See  Criticism,  Biblical. 

Hoogstraten  (also  called  IIochstraten),  Jacob 
van,  prior  of  the  Dominican  convent  of  Cologne,  and 
an  ardent  adversary  of  Reuchlin,  Luther,  and  Erasmus, 
was  born  at  Brabant  in  1454.  He  studied  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Cologne  without  much  success.  Neverthe- 
less, he  was  received  master  of  arts  in  1485,  and  after- 
wards made  prior.  His  great  zeal  and  opposition  to  the 
Reformation  secured  him  the  nomination  of  inquisitor 
at  Louvain,  besides  a professorship  of  theology  at  the 
University  of  Cologne,  for  which  he  was  in  nowise  qual- 
ified. In  1513  he  summoned  Reuchlin  to  appear  before 
him,  thereby  transcending  his  powers,  as  Reuchlin,  re- 
siding in  another  state,  could  only  be  summoned  by  the 
provincial  of  the  order.  He  had  already  published  his 
Libellus  accusatorius  contra  speculum  ocul.  Joh.  Reuch- 
lini,  ’when  the  chapter  of  Mentz  took  Reuclilin’s  case 
in  hand.  But  pope  Leo  X gave  commission  to  bishop 
George  of  Speer  to  settle  the  controversy.  Hoogstraten, 
not  appearing,  lost  his  cause,  and  was  condemned  to  pay 
the  costs;  but,  as  he  refused  to  submit  to  the  decree,  the 
whole  matter  was  brought  before  Leo  X,  and  Iloogstra- 
ten  was  summoned  to  Rome.  Unwilling  either  to  of- 
fend the  humanists  in  the  person  of  Reuchlin,  or  the 
powerful  Dominicans  represented  by  Hoogstraten,  the 
pope  issued  a mandatum  de  supersedendo.  Returning  to 
Cologne,  Hoogstraten  published  in  1518  two  so-called 
Apologies,  full  of  malice,  and  in  1519  his  Destructio  ca- 
balie,  seu  cabalistee  perfidies  a Joh.  Reuchlino  seu  Capni- 
one  (Col.  1519).  He  also  opposed  Luther  in  the  most 
violent  manner,  proposing  that  he  should  be  burned  at 
once.  Hoogstraten  died  at  Cologne  Jan.  21,  1527.  His 
collected  works  were  published  at  Cologne  in  1526.  See 
Herzog,  Real-Enci/klop.  vi,  257 ; Echard,  Scriptor.  Ord. 
Priedicatorum ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Bioy.  Generate,  xxv,  105 ; 
Raumer,  Gesch.  Europa's,  i,  210 ; Maycrhoff,  Joh.  Reuch- 
lin tt.  s.  Zeit , p.  158  sq.;  Schrockh,  Kirchenyesch.  xxx, 
248;  s.  d.  Reform,  i,  139;  Bayle,  Hist.  Diet,  iii,  471  sq.; 
Mosheim,  Church  History,  iii,  22. 

Hook  is  the  rendering  in  the  Auth.Vers.  of  the  fol- 
lowing terms  in  the  original.  See  also  Fish-hook  ; 
Flesh-iiook;  Fruning-iiook.  The  idea  of  a thorn 
enters  into  the  etymology  of  several  of  them,  probably 
because  a thorn,  hooked  or  straight,  was  the  earliest  in- 
strument of  this  kind.  Tacitus  thus  describes  the  dress 
of  the  ancient  Germans.  “ A loose  mantle,  fastened  with 
a clasp,  or,  when  that  cannot  be  had,  with  a thorn” 
{Germ.  17).  See  Thorn. 

1.  nn,  chach  (lit.  a thorn),  a riny  inserted  in  the  nos- 
trils of  animals,  to  which  a cord  was  fastened  in  order 
to  lead  them  about  or  tame  them  (2  Kings  xix,  28 ; Isa. 
xxxvii,  29;  Ezek.  xxix,  4;  xxxviii.  4;  compare  Job  xl, 
26);  also  a “chain” for  a captive  (Ezek. xLx, 4, 9),  and 
“ bracelets”  for  females  (Exod.  xxv,  22,  where  others  a 
nose-riny,  others  a clasp  for  fastening  the  dress).  In  the 
first  two  of  the  above  passages,  Jehovah  intimates  his 


HOOK 


328 


HOOK 


absolute  control  over  Sennacherib  by  an  allusion  to  the 
practice  of  leading  buffaloes,  camels,  dromedaries,  etc., 
by  means  of  a cord,  or  of  a cord  attached  to  a ring,  pass- 
ed through  the  nostrils  (Shaw,  Travels , p.  167-8,  2d  ed.). 
Such  a rmg  is  oftentimes  placed  through  the  nose 
of  a bull,  and  is  likewise  used  in  the  East  for  leading 
about  lions,  camels,  and  other  animals.  A similar  meth- 
od was  adopted  for  leading  prisoners,  as  in  the  case  of 
iNIanasseh,  who  was  led  with  rings  (2  Citron,  xxxiii,  11). 
An  illustration  of  this  practice  is  found  in  a bas-relief 
discovered  at  Khorsabad  (Layard,  ii,376;  see  also  the 
cut  under  Eye).  The  term  u;jPV2  is  used  in  a similar 


Ancient  Assyrian  Hook  of  Bronze  (belonging,  as  Layard 
thiuks,  Kin.  and  Bab.  p.  178,  to  some  part  of  a chariot  or 
horse-trappings). 

sense  in  Job  xl,  24  (A.V.  “bore  his  nose  with  a gin,” 
margin).  Another  form  of  the  same  term,  H*n  (A.Y. 
“thorn”), is  likewise  properly  a ring  placed  through  the 
mouth  of  a large  fish,  and  attached  by  a cord  (‘|'25S)  to 
a stake  for  the  purpose  of  keeping  it  alive  in  the  water 
(Job  xli,  2) ; the  word  meaning  the  cord  is  rendered 
“ hook”  in  the  A.  V.  See  below. 

2.  The  cognate  word  flirt,  c hakkah',  means  a fish- 
hook (Job  xli,  i,  “ angle ;”  Isa.  xix,  8 ; Hab.  i,  15).  This 
passage  iu  Job  has  occasioned  the  following  specida- 
tions  (see,  for  instance,  Harris's  Nat.  Hist,  of  the  Bible , 
art.  Leviathan,  Lond.  1825).  It  has  been  assumed  that 
Bocliart  has  completely  proved  the  Leviathan  to  mean 
the  crocodile  (Rosen mailer  on  Bocliart,  iii,  737,  etc.,  769, 
etc.,  Lips.  1796).  Herodotus  has  then  been  quoted, 
where  he  relates  that  the  Egyptians  near  Lake  Aloeris 
select  a crocodile,  render  him  tame,  and  suspend  orna- 
ments to  his  cars,  and  sometimes  gems  of  great  value ; 
his  fore  feet  being  adorned  with  bracelets  (ii,  69)  ; and 
the  mummies  of  crocodiles,  having  their  ears  thus  bored, 
have  been  discovered  (Kenriek’s  Egypt  of  Herodotus , p. 
97,  Lond.  1841).  Hence  it  is  concluded  that  this  pas- 
sage in  Job  refers  to  the  facts  mentioned  by  Herodotus ; 
and,  doubtless,  the  terms  employed,  especially  by  the 
Sept,  and  Vulg.,  and  the  third  and  following  verses,  fa- 
vor the  supposition,  for  there  the  captive  is  represented 
as  suppliant  and  obsequious,  in  a state  of  security  and 
servitude,  and  the  object  of  diversion,  “played  with”  as 
with  a bird,  and  serving  for  the  sport  of  maidens.  He- 
rodotus is  further  quoted  to  show  that  in  his  time  the 
Egyptians  captured  the  crocodile  with  a hook  ( aytao - 
rpov),  with  which  (tZtXicvaQi]  tig  rrjv  yijv)  he  was  drawn 
ashore ; and  accounts  are  certainly  given  by  modem 
travelers  of  the  continuance  of  this  practice  CMaillet, 
Descrip.  d'Egypte,  ii,  127,  ed.  Hag.,  1740).  But  does  not 
the  entire  description  go  upon  the  supposition  of  the  im- 
possibility of  so  treating  Leviathan  ? Supposing  the  al- 
lusions to  be  correctly  interpreted,  is  it  not  as  much  as 
to  say,  ‘Canst  thou  treat  him  as  thou  canst  treat  the 
crocodile  and  other  fierce  creatures?”  Dr.  Lee  has,  in- 
deed, given  reasons  which  render  it  doubtful,  at  least, 
whether  the  leviathan  does  mean  the  crocodile  in  this 
passage,  or  whether  it  does  not  mean  some  species  of 
wlude,  as  was  formerly  supposed— the  Delphinus  area 
communis,  or  common  grampus,  found  in  the  Mediter- 
ranean, the  Red  Sea,  and  also  in  the  Nile.  (See  his  ex- 
amination of  Boehart’s  reasonings,  etc.,  in  Translation 
and  Notes  on  Job,  p.  197  and  529-539,  Loud.  1837).  So 
the  above  term  in  Ezek.  xxix,  “ I will  put  my  hooks  in 
thy  jaws,  and  I will  cause  thee  to  come  up  out  of  the  midst 
of  thy  livers,"  where  the  prophet  foretells  the  destruc- 
tion of  Pharaoh,  king  of  Egypt,  by  allusions  to  the  de- 
struction, possibly,  of  a crocodile,  the  symbol  of  Egypt. 
Thus  Pliny  (Hist.  Nat.  viii.  25)  states,  that  the  Tentyri- 
tse  (inhabitants  of  Egypt)  followed  the  crocodile,  swim- 


ming after  it  in  the  river,  sprung  upon  its  back,  thrust 
a bar  into  its  mouth,  which  being  held  by  its  two  ex- 
tremities, serves  as  a bit,  and  enables  them  to  force  it  on 
shore  (comp.  Ezek.  xxix,  3,  4).  Strabo  relates  that  the 
Tentyritae  displayed  their  feats  before  the  Romans  (xvii, 
560,  ed.  Casaub.).  See  Leviathan. 

3.  V,  vav,  a peg  or  pin,  upon  which  the  curtains  of 

the  Tabernacle  were  hung,  springing  out  of  the  capitals 
(Exod.  xxvi,  32,  etc.).  The  Sept,  and  Jerome  seem  to 
have  understood  the  capitals  of  the  pillars ; and  it  has 
been  urged  that  this  is  more  likely  to  be  the  meaning 
than  hooks,  especially  as  1775  shekels  of  silver  were  used 
in  making  these  for  the  pillars,  overlaying  the 

chapiters,  and  filleting  them  (ch.  xxxviii,  28),  and  that 
the  hooks  are  really  the  EnC“p,  taches  (Exod.  xxvi,  6, 
11,38,35;  xxxix,33).  Yet  the  Sept,  also  renders  d*1YlJ 
icptKoi,  rings  or  clasps  (Exod.xxvii,  10, 11,  and  dytcvXat, 
Exod.  xxxviii,  17, 19);  and  from  a comparison  of  these 
two  latter  passages,  it  would  seem  that  these  hooks,  or 
rather  tenters,  rose  out  of  the  chapiters  or  heads  of  the 
pillars.  The  word  seems  to  have  given  name  to  the 
letter  ",  in  the  Hebrew  alphabet,  possibly  from  a simi- 
larity of  the  form  in  which  the  latter  appears  in  the 
Greek  Digamma,  to  that  of  a hook.  Mr.  Paine  (Solo- 
mon's Temple,  etc.,  p.  25)  regards  these  “ hooks”  as  hav- 
ing been  rather  pins  driven  into  the  heads  of  the  pillars, 
and  thus  projecting  upward  from  them  like  a small 
tenon,  upon  which  the  silver  rods  were  slipped  by  means 
of  a small  hole  or  eye  in  the  latter.  This  would  serve 
to  keep  the  pillars  together.  See  Tabernacle. 

4.  Hil,  tsinnald  (lit.  thorn),  a fish-hook  (Amos  iv,  2; 
elsewhere  a shield).  See  Fishing,  etc. ; Angle. 

In  the  same  verse,  P“P."p,  siroth',  “ fisli-hooks,” 
where  both  Sept,  and  Vulg.  seem  to  have  taken  “.“C  in 
the  sense  of  a pot  or  caldron  instead  of  a fish-hook.  See 
Caldron. 

5.  Uhl'S,  mazleg'  (l  Sam.  ii,  13, 14),  “ flesh-hook,”  and 

the  “the  flesh-hooks”  (Exod.  xxvii,  3,  and 

elsewhere).  This  was  evidently  in  the  first  passt".ge  a 
trident  “of  three  teeth,”  a kind  of  fork,  etc.,  for  turning 
the  sacrifices  on  the  fire,  and  for  collecting  fragments, 
etc.  See  Flesh-hook. 

6.  P’PpT’S,  mazmeroth'  (Isa.  ii,  4,  and  elsewhere), 
“beat  their  spears  into  pruning-hooks”  (ip t Trava,  f di- 
ces). The  Roman  poets  have  the  same  metaphor  (Mar- 
tial, xiv,  34,  “ Falx  ex  ense”).  In  Mic.  iv,  3,  in  ligones, 
weeding-liooks,  or  shovels,  spades,  etc.  Joel  reverses 
the  metaphor  “pruning-hooks”  into  spears  (iii,  10,  ligo- 
nes) ; and  so  Ovid  (Fasti,  i,  697,  in  pila  ligones).  See 
Pkuning-iiook. 

7.  Doubtful  is  C“P£‘1;,  shephatta'yim,  stalls  for  cattle 
(“pots,”  I’sa.  lxviii,  13),  also  the  cedar  beams  in  the 
Temple  court  with  hooks  for  flaying  the  victims  (Ezek. 
xl,  43).  Other  meanings  given  are  ledges  (Vulg.  la- 
bia), or  eaves,  as  though  the  word  were  C*P£:r ; pens 
for  keeping  the  animals  previous  to  their  being  slaugh- 
tered; hearth-stones,  as  in  the  margin  of  the  A.V.:  and, 
lastly,  gutters  to  receive  and  carry  off  the  blood  from 

i the  slaughtered  animals.  Gesenius  (Thesaur.  p.  1470) 
explains  the  term  as  signifying  stalls  in  the  courts  of 
the  Temple  where  the  sacrificial  victims  were  fastened: 
our  translators  give  in  the  margin  “endirons,  or  the  two 
hearth-stones.”  The  Sept,  seems  equally  at  a loss,  teat 
TraXaiaTijv  tlovot  yt'aroc  ; as  also  Jerome,  who  renders 
it  labia.  Schlcusner  pronounces  yitcoc  to  be  a barba- 
rous word  formed  from  and  understands  epistylium, 

a little  pillar  set  on  another,  and  c apitellum,  columned. 
The  Chaldee  renders  ’"bp TP,  short  posts  in  the  house 
of  the  slaughterers  on  which  to  suspend  the  sacrifices. 
Dr.  Lightfoot,  in  his  chapter  “on  the  altar,  the  rings, 
and  the  laver,”  observes,  “On  the  north  side  of  the  al- 
tar were  six  orders  of  rings,  each  of  which  contained 


tIOOK 


329 


IIOOKEIi 


six,  at  which  they  killed  the  sacrifices.  Near  by  were 
low  pillars  set  up,  upon  which  were  laid  overthwart 
beams  of  cedar ; oil  these  were  fastened  rows  of  hooks, 
on  which  the  sacrifices  were  hung;  and  they  were  flay- 
ed on  marble  tables,  which  were  between  these  pillars” 
(see  vers.  41,  42 ; Works,  vol.  xi,  ch.  xxxiv,  Lond.  1G84- 
5-G).  See  Temlpe. 

8.  Obviously  an  incorrect  rendering  for  ’ji'sax,  ag- 

a rush-rope , used  for  binding  animals,  perhaps  by 
means  of  the  ring  in  their  nose  (Job  xli,  2 ; elsewhere 
“ rush”  or  “ caldron”).  See  Flag. 

9.  Finally,  FptTrain]<p6pa  in  2 Macc.  xiii,  2 is  rendered 
“ armed  with  hooks,”  referring  to  the  scythe-armed  char- 
iots of  the  ancients.  See  Chariot. 

Hook,  James,  LL.D.,  an  English  prelate,  was  born 
in  London  in  1771,  and  educated  at  St.  Mary’s  Hall,  Ox- 
ford. He  became  archdeacon  of  Huntingdon  in  1814, 
dean  of  Worcester  in  1825,  and  held  also  other  prefer- 
ments in  the  English  Church.  He  died  in  1828.  Be- 
sides some  dramatic  pieces  and  novels  which  are  as- 
cribed to  Hook,  he  published  .1  nguis  in  Jferbct,  a true 
Sketch  of  the  Church  of  England  and  her  Clergy  (Lond. 
1802,  8vo): — Sermons , etc.  (1812,  8vo,  and  another  se- 
ries in  1818,  8vo).  For  a biographical  sketch  of  Hook, 
see  the  London  Gent.  Mag.  April,  1828. — Alii  bone,  Diet, 
of  Authors , i,  875. 

Hooke,  Luce  Joseph,  a French  theologian  of 
English  origin,  was  born  about  17 16,  and  educated  at 
the  seminary  of  “ Saint-Nicolas  du  Chardonnet.”  He 
received  the  doctor’s  degree  from  the  Sorbonne,  and  was 
appointed  professor  of  theology  in  1750.  The  following 
year  he  presided  at  the  discussion  of  abbe  Parados’s  ( 
v.)  thesis,  which  contained  many  heterodox  doctrines, 
and  which  he  had  signed  without  reading.  Hooke  was 
deposed  from  his  professorship ; but  the  professors  of  the 
Sorbonne  and  of  the  College  of  Navarre  interceded  in 
his  behalf,  and  obtained  the  revocation  of  the  order. 
At  the  outbreak  of  the  French  Revolution  he  wras  made 
librarian  of  the  Mazarin  Library,  but  he  held  this  place 
only  a short  time,  when  he  retired  to  St. Cloud,  lie 
died  in  179G.  Hooke  published  Heligionis  naturalis  rer- 
eiatce  et  Catholicm  Pnncipia  (Paris,  1754,2  vols.  8vo; 
2d  ed.  1774,  3 vols.  8vo) : — Discours  et  Reflex,  crit.  sur 
l’ hist.  et  le  gouvernement.  de  Fane.  Rome  (Paris,  1770-84,4 
vols.  12mo — a translation  of  one  of  his  father’s  works 
from  the  English) : — Principe  sur  la  Nature-  et  I'Essence 
du  Pouvoir  de  I'Eglise  (Paris,  1791,  8vo).  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hooke,  William,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
born  in  Southampton  in  1G01,  and  educated  at  Trinity 
College,  Oxford.  After  having  received  orders  in  the 
Church  of  England,  he  became  vicar  of  Axmoutli,  in 
Devonshire.  About  163G  he  emigrated  to  this  country, 
as  his  nonconforming  views  had  caused  him  considera- 
ble trouble,  and  in  1G44  or  1645  he  was  installed  pastor 
at  New  Haven,  Conn.  He  was  by  marriage  a cousin 
of  Oliver  Cromwell,  after  whose  ascendency  he  returned 
to  England,  and  became  Cromwell’s  domestic  chaplain. 
After  the  death  of  Cromwell,  Hooke  became  an  ejected 
and  silenced  minister,  and  he  spent  his  remaining  days 
in  retirement.  He  died  near  London  March  21,  1G78. 
Besides  several  sermons — among  them,  New  England's 
Tears  for  Old,  England’s  Fears , a Fast  sermon  (Taunton, 
1G40,  London,  1G41,  4to),  which  is  considered  one  of  the 
best  productions  of  his  day — he  published  The  Privi- 
leges of  the  Saints  on  Earth  beyond  those  in  Heaven,  etc., 
containing  also  a Discourse  on  the  Gospel  Day  (1G73). — 
Sprague,  .Inn.  Am.  Pulpit , i,  104  sq. ; Allibone,  Diet,  of 
Authors , i,  878. 

Hooker,  Asahel,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
bom  in  Bethlehem,  Conn.,  Aug.  29,  17G2.  He  gradua- 
ted at  Yale  College  in  1789,  and  was  installed  pastor  at 
Goshen  in  September,  1791.  This  charge  he  resigned 
on  account  of  ill  health  Jime  12,  1810.  After  preaching 
in  various  pulpits,  he  became  pastor  of  Chelsea  parish, 
Norwich,  Conn.,  Jan.  16,  1812,  where  he  remained  until 


his  death,  April  19,  1813.  Air.  Hooker  published  sev- 
eral occasional  sermons,  and  a number  of  articles  in  the 
Connecticut  Evangelical  Magazine. — Sprague,  Annuls,  ii, 
31G. 

Hooker,  Herman,  D.D.,  a Protestant  Episcopal 
clergyman,  was  born  at  Poultney,  Vt.,  in  1804;  gradua- 
ted at  Middlebury  College  in  1825,  and  later  at  the 
Princeton  Theological  Seminary,  and  was  licensed  as  a 
Presbyterian,  with  great  promise  both  as  a scholar  and 
speaker.  He  finally  joined  the  Protestant  Episcopal 
Church,  but  the  partial  loss  of  his  sight  and  of  his  voice 
soon  compelled  his  retirement  from  the  ministry ; and 
he  became  a bookseller  at  Philadelphia,  continuing,  how- 
ever, at  the  same  time,  his  theological  studies.  He  died 
at  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  Sept.2G,  18(55.  Ilis  principal  works 
are,  The  Portion  of  the  Soul  (Philad.  1835, 32mo,  and  re- 
published in  England):  — Popular  Infidelity  (Philadel. 
1830,  12mo)  : — Family  Book  of  Devotion  (183G,  8vo) : — 
The  Uses  of  Adversity  and  the  Provisions  of  Consolation 
(Philad.  1846,  18mo) : — Thoughts  and  Maxims  (Philad. 
1847,  lGmo): — The  Christian  Life  a Fight  of  Faith 
(Philad.  1848, 18mo).  lie  also  published  a large  number 
of  English  and  American  works.  “ Dr.  Hooker  was  a 
vigorous  and  close  thinker,  a clear  writer,  a devout  and 
conscientious  Christian,  full  of  true  and  consistent  char- 
ity. lie  made  the  Nashotah  Seminary  a residuary 
legatee,  which  bequest  probably  amounted  to  about 
$10,000.”  See  Church  Rev.  Jan.  18GG;  Allibone,  Diet, 
of  Authors,  i,  878. 

Hooker,  Richard,  one  of  the  most  eminent  di- 
vines in  the  history  of  the  Church  of  England,  was  bom 
in  or  near  Exeter  about  1553,  according  to  Walton,  or 
about  Easter,  1554,  according  to  Wood.  Ilis  early  edu- 
cation was  received  at  the  expense  of  liis  uncle,  John 
Hooker,  chamberlain  of  Exeter,  and  he  was  afterwards 
introduced  by  the  same  relative  to  the  notice  of  bishop 
Jewel,  who  procured  him  in  1567  a clerkship  in  Corpus 
Christi  College,  Oxford.  In  December,  1573,  he  became 
a student  in  that  college,  and  a fellow  and  master  of  arts 
in  1577.  In  1579  he  was  appointed  lecturer  on  Hebrew 
in  the  university,  and  in  October  of  the  same  year  he 
was  expelled  his  college,  with  Dr.  John  Reynolds  and 
three  other  fellows,  but  lie  was  restored  the  same  month. 
About  two  years  after  he  took  orders,  and  was  appointed 
to  preach  at  Paul’s  Cross.  Having  married  the  follow- 
ing year,  he  lost  his  fellowship,  but  he  was  presented  to 
the  living  of  Drayton-Beanchamp,  in  Bucks,  by  John 
Cherry,  Esq.,  in  1584.  Through  the  influence  of  the 
archbishop  of  York,  he  was  appointed  Master  of  the 
Temple  in  1585.  Here  he  became  engaged  in  a contro- 
versy on  Church  discipline  and  some  points  of  doctrine 
with  Walter  Travers,  afternoon  lecturer  at  the  Temple, 
who  had  been  ordained  by  the  Presbytery  at  Antwerp, 
and  held  most  of  the  opinions  of  the  divines  of  Geneva. 
Travers,  being  silenced  by  archbishop  Whitgift,  appealed 
to  the  privy  council,  but  without  success.  His  petition 
to  the  council  was  published,  and  answered  by  Hooker. 
Travers  had  many  adherents  in  the  Temple,  and  it  was 
their  opposition,  according  to  Izaak  Walton,  which  in- 
duced Hooker  to  commence  his  work  on  the  Laws  of 
Ecclesiastical  Polity.  Finding  that  he  had  not  leisure 
at  the  Temple  to  complete  that  work,  he  applied  to 
Whitgift  for  removal  to  a more  quiet  station,  and  was 
accordingly  presented  to  the  living  of  Boscombe  in  Wilt- 
shire in  1591.  On  the  17th  of  July  in  the  same  year  he 
was  made  a prebendary  of  Salisbury.  At  Boscombe  lie 
finished  four  books  of  the  Ecclesiastical  Polity,  which 
w'ere  published  in  1594.  On  the  7th  of  July,  1595,  he 
was  presented  by  the  queen  to  the  living  of  Bishops- 
bourne  in  Kent,  which  lie  held  till  his  death,  on  the  2d 
of  November,  1GOO.  “ Hooker’s  manner  was  grave  even 
in  childhood ; the  mildness  of  his  temper  was  proved  by 
his  moderation  in  controversy;  and  his  piety  and  learn- 
ing procured  him  the  general  esteem  of  his  contempora- 
ries. His  great  work  is  his  defence  of  the  constitution 
and  discipline  of  the  Church  of  England,  in  eight  books. 


HOOKER 


330 


HOOPER 


under  the  title  of  The  Laws  of  Ecclesiastical  Polity. 
This  work  obtained  during  the  author’s  lifetime  the 
praise  of  a pope  (Clement  VIII)  and  a king  (James 
I),  and  has  ever  since  been  looked  upon  as  one  of  the 
chief  bulwarks  of  the  Church  of  England  and  of  ecclesi- 
astical establishments  in  general.  As  a work  of  solid 
learning,  profound  reasoning,  and  breadth  and  sustained 
dignity  of  style,  it  is  indeed  beyond  praise ; but  the  com- 
mon objection  is  a just  one,  that  Hooker’s  reasoning  is 
too  frequently  that  of  an  advocate.  The  publication  of 
the  first  four  books  has  been  mentioned  above;  the  fifth 
was  published  in  1597.  lie  completed  the  last  three 
books,  but  they  were  not  published  till  several  years  af- 
ter his  death.  The  account  which  Walton  gives  of  the 
mutilation  of  the  last  three  books  is  very  improbable, 
and  little  doubt  can  be  entertained  of  their  authenticity, 
though  they  are  certainly  imperfect,  and  probably  not 
in  the  condition  in  which  he  left  them”  ( English  Cyclo- 
peedia).  Hooker  was  charged  with  Romanizing  ten- 
dencies, but  the  charge  had  no  better  foundation  than 
his  prelatical  theory  of  the  Church.  For  a series  of 
shrewd  and  genial  notes  and  criticisms  on  Hooker,  see 
Coleridge,  Complete  Works , N.  Y.  edition,  v,  28  sq.  Of 
the  Ecclesiastical  Polity  many  separate  editions  have 
appeared.  His  Works , with  Life,  edited  by  Dr.  Gauden, 
were  published  in  London,  1062  (fol.);  again  in  1606 
(fob),  with  life  by  Izaalt  Walton.  The  latest  editions 
are  Hanbury’s,  with  life  of  Cartwright,  and  Notes,  from 
the  dissenting  point  of  view  (London,  1830, 3 vols.  8vo)  ; 
Keble’s  (Loud.  1836,  4 vols.  8vo,  and  1841,  3 vols.  8vo  ; 
without  the  Introduction  and  notes,  2 vols.  8vo).  See 
Hook,  Eccles.  Biography, x\,  126  sq. ; Orme,  Life  of  Bax- 
ter, i,  22 ; Stanley,  Life  of  A mold,  ii,  64 ; Ilailam,  Liter- 
ature of  Europe,  ii,  98 ; Allibone,  Dictionary  of  A uihors, 
i,  880 ; Grant,  Ch.  Hist,  i,  443 ; Baxter,  Ch.  Ilist.  of  Engl. 
p.  489,  537  sq.,  543;  Neal,  Hist,  of  the  Puritans,  i,  206; 
Bennett,  Ilist.  of  the  Dissenters,  p.  226;  Skeats,  Hist,  of 
the  Free  Churches  of  Engl.  p.  29  sq. ; Cunningham,  Ch. 
Principles,  p.  321, 391  sq.;  Shedd,  Hist,  of  Doctrines  (see 
Index);  Hagenbach,  Ilist.  of  Doctr.  (see  Index,  vol.  ii) ; 
Lecky,  Ilist.  of  Rationalism.,  ii,  79, 199  sq. ; Bickcrsteth, 
.Stud.  A ssist.  p.  245 ; T ullocli,  English  Puritanism  and  its 
Leaders,  p.  24  sq. ; Calamy,  Hist.  Account  of  my  Life,  i, 
235  sq. ; ii,  236  ; Journ.  Sac.  Lit.  xxvii,  467 ; Theolog. 
Magazine,  vol.  ii. 

Hooker,  Thomas,  an  eminent  Congregational 
minister,  was  born  July  7,  1586,  at  Marfield,  Leicester- 
shire, Eng.  He  was  successively  student  and  professor 
at  Emanuel  College,  Cambridge.  After  preaching  a 
short  time  in  London,  he  settled  in  1626  at  Chelmsford 
as  assistant  minister.  In  1630  he  was  silenced  by  arch- 
bishop Laud  for  nonconformity,  and  enjoined,  under  a 
bond  of  fifty  pounds,  to  come  before  the  Court  of  High 
Commission ; but  forfeiting  the  bond,  he  escaped  to  Hol- 
land, and  remained  three  years,  when  he  returned,  and 
sailed,  July,  1633,  for  Boston.  He  arrived  in  this  coun- 


vears  (June,  1636),  in  company  with  Mr.  Stone,  the 
teacher  in  his  church,  and  others,  he  started  into  what 
was  then  the  wilderness,  and  settled  at  Hartford.  He 
died  at  that  place  July  7, 1647.  Hooker  published  The 
Soul’s  Ingrafting  into  Christ  (1637): — The  Soul's  Im- 
plantation; a Treatise  containing  The  Broken  Heart, 
The  Preparing  of  the  Heart,  The  Soul’s  Ingrafting  into 
Christ,  Spiritual  Love  and  Joy  (1637) : — The  Soul’s  Prep- 
aration for  Christ  (1638): — The  Unbeliever's  Prepara- 
tion for  Christ,  parts  i and  ii  (1638) : — The  Soul's  Exal- 
tation— embracing  Union  with  Christ,  Benefits  of  Union 
with  Christ,  and  Justification  (1638)  \—The  Soul's  ] 'ora- 
tion, or  Effectual  Calling  to  Christ  (1638) : — Ten  Partic- 
ular Rules  to  be  practised  every  day  by  Converted  Chris- 
tians (1641)  : — Survey  of  the  Sum  of  Church  Discipline 
(1648) : — Christ's  Prayer  for  Believers ; a Series  of  Dis- 
courses founded  on  John  xvii,  20-26  (1657)  : — The  Soul's 
Possession  of  Christ : — The  Soul's  Justification  ; eleven 
Sermons  on  2 Corinthians  v,  21 ; Proverbs  i,  28, 29 ; and 


a number  of  occasional  sermons.  See  Neal,  Hist,  of  X. 
England ; Sprague,  A nnals,  ii,  317 ; Hagenbach,  Hist,  of 
Doctrines,  ii,  192, 298 ; Neal,  Hist,  of  the  Puritans,  i,  317 ; 
C out  rib.  to  Eccles.  Ilist.  of  Connecticut  (1861,  8vo),  p.  16, 
23, 87, 404,412. 

Hooper,  George,  D.D.,  an  English  prelate,  born 
in  Worcestershire  in  1640,  was  educated  at  St.  Paul’s  and 
Westminster  School,  and  afterwards  at  Christ  Church, 
Oxford.  He  first  became  chaplain  of  Morley,  bishop  of 
Winchester,  and,  later,  archbishop  Sheldon  gave  him  the 
living  of  Lambeth.  In  1677  he  was  appointed  almoner 
of  the  princess  of  Orange.  On  the  accession  of  William, 
the  queen  chose  Hooper  for  her  chaplain,  and  he  was 
appointed  dean  of  Canterbury  in  1691.  In  1703  he  was 
made  bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  and  in  March  following  was 
transferred  to  the  see  of  Bath  and  Wells.  He  died  at 
Barkley,  Somersetshire,  in  September,  1727.  Ilis  prin- 
cipal works  are,  A fair  and  methodical  Discussion  of  the 
first  and  great  Controversy  between  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land and  the  Church  of  Rome , concerning  the  Infallible 
Guide  (Lond.  1687)  : — De  Valentinianorum  Heeresi  Con- 
jecturee,  quibus  illius  origo  ex  vEgyptiaca  theologia  de- 
ducitnr  (ibid.  171 1) : — A n Inquiry  into  A ncient  Measures, 
etc.,  and  especially  the  Jeivish,  with  an  Appendix  concern- 
ing our  old  English  Money  and  Measures  of  Content  (ib. 
1721).  There  has  been  but  one  complete  edition  of  his 
Works,  namely,  that  published  by  Dr.  Hunt,  Hebrew 
professor  (Oxf.  1757,  fol.).  See  Todd,  Lives  of  the  Deans 
of  Canterbury  ; Hoofer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  124. 

Hooper  (IIorER,  or  Houper),  John,  an  English 
bishop,  and  one  of  the  martyrs  of  the  Reformation,  was 
born  in  Somersetshire  about  1495.  He  was  educated  at 
Merton  College,  Oxford.  Having  embraced  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Reformation,  he  was  obliged  to  leave  the 
university,  and  finally  the  country  in  1540.  He  went 
to  Switzerland,  passing  most  of  his  time  at  Zurich.  On 
the  accession  of  Edward  VI  (1547)  he  returned  to  Eng- 
land, and  acquired  great  reputation  in  London  as  a 
preacher.  In  1550  he  was  made  bishop  of  Gloucester, 
but  his  repugnance  to  wearing  the  vestments  of  that  of- 
fice caused  considerable  delay  in  his  consecration.  Af- 
ter entering  on  his  duties,  he  labored  with  great  zeal  for 
the  cause  of  the  Reformation.  In  1552  he  was  appoint- 
ed bishop  of  Worcester  in  commendani.  In  the  early 
part  of  the  reign  of  Mary  (1553),  he  was  arrested  and 
condemned  to  be  burned  at  the  stake  for  his  Protestant 
zeal.  He  firmly  refused  all  offers  of  pardon  which  re- 
quired the  abandonment  of  his  principles,  and  though, 
on  account  of  the  wood  with  which  he  was  burned  be- 
ing green,  he  suffered  the  severest  torments  for  nearly 
an  hour,  he  manifested  unshaken  fortitude.  He  died 
Feb.  9, 1555.  Hooper  was  the  author  of  a number  of 
sermons  and  controversial  treatises.  Among  his  best 
works  are  A Declaration  of  Christ  and  his  Office  (1547, 
8vo)  : — Lesson  of  the  Incarnation  of  Christ  (1549,  8vo)  : 
— Twelve  Lectures  on  the  Creed  (1581, 8vo).  Several  let- 
ters of  Hooper  are  preserved  in  the  archives  of  Zurich. 
We  have  recent  reprints,  by  the  Parker  Society,  of  The 
Early  Writings  of  Bishop  Hooper,  edited  by  the  Rev.  S. 
Carr  (Cambridge,  1843, 8vo)  ; and  of  his  Later  Writings, 
with  Letters,  etc.,  edited  by  the  Rev.  C.  Nevinson  (Cam- 
bridge, 1852,  8vo).  A sketch  of  his  life  and  writings 
is  given  in  the  British  Reformers,  vol.  iv  (Lond.  Tract 
Society).  See  Wood,  A thence  Oxonienses,  vol.  i ; Fox, 
Book  of  Martyrs ; Middleton,  Evangel.  Biogr.;  Hoefer, 
Nouv.  Biog.  Geverale,  xxv,  123;  Burnet,  Ilist.  of  Engl. 
Reformation,  vols.  ii  and  iii;  Hook,  Eccles.  Biography, 

vi,  148 ; Tulloch  (John),  Engl.  Puritanism  and  its  Leaders 
(1861, 12mo),  p.  8 sq. ; Baxter,  Ch.  Hist,  of  Engl.  p.  408, 
446;  Skeats,  Ilist.  of  the  Free  Churches,  p.  8 sq. ; Mid- 
dleton, Reformers,  iii, 242;  H ard wick, Reform.)). 215 sq., 
409,425  sq.;  Wesley,  IPorl’s, ii, 292 ; v,368;  vi, 67, 197; 
(’oilier,  Eccles.  Hist,  v,  376  sq. ; Fuller,  Ch.  Hist,  iv,  bk. 

vii,  p.  66 ; Brit,  and  For.  Rev.  Oct.  1868,  p.  881 ; Soames, 
Hist,  of  the  Reform,  iii,  558  sq. ; Neal,  Ilist.  of  the  Puri- 
tans, i,  51  sq. ; Bennett,  Hist,  of  Dissenters,  p.  133 ; Pun- 


IIOORNBEEK 


331 


HOPE 


chard  (George),  Hist,  of  Congregationalism  (N.  Y.  1865, 
2 vols.  12nao),  ii,  194  sq.,  297. 

Hoornbeek,  Johann,  a distinguished  Dutch  divine, 
was  bom  at  Harlem  Nov.  4, 1G17.  He  entered  the  min- 
istry at  Cologne  in  1639,  and  was  appointed  to  Utrecht 
as  minister  and  professor  of  theology  in  1644.  In  1654 
he  went  to  Leyden  as  professor,  where  he  died  Sept.  1, 
1666.  He  was  a prolific  and  much  esteemed  writer. 
Among  those  of  his  works  which  may  yet  be  of  interest 
to  the  scholar  are,  Epistola  ailJoh.  Duramm  de  Indepen- 
dentismo  (Lugd.  Bat.  1659)  : — Brevis  instil.  studii  theolo- 
gici  (Ultraj.  1658)  : — Summa  controversiarum  religionis 
(1653),  which  is  still,  with  Spanheim's,  one  of  the  most 
useful  compendiums  of  reformed  polemics: — Socinianis- 
mus  confutatns  (Utrecht  and  Amst.  1650-1664,  3 vols. 
4to),  an  extract  of  which  was  given  by  Knibble  (Leyd. 
1G90): — Miscellanea  Sacra  (Utrecht,  1677).  Of  espe- 
cial value  is  his  Theologia  practica  cum  irenica  (Ultraj. 
1663-1698,  3 vols.  4to;  new  edit.  1672). — Herzog,  Reiil- 
Encyklop.  vi,  260 ; Bayle,  Gen.  Dictionary , s.  v. ; Hook, 
Eccles.  Biography,  vi,  149;  Stiiudlin,  Geschichte  d.theol. 
Moral  s.  d.  Wkderauflehung  d.  Wissenschaft,  p.429  sq. ; 
Schrockh,  Kirchengesch.  s.  d.  Reform,  viii,  603  sq. ; Gass, 
Gesch.  d.  Dogmcit.  ii,  287,  293. 

Hope  (iXiriq),  a term  used  in  Scripture  generally 
to  denote  the  desire  and  expectation  of  some  good  (1 
Cor.  ix,  10) ; specially  to  denote  the  assured  expectation 
of  salvation,  and  of  all  minor  blessings  included  in  sal- 
vation, for  this  life  and  the  life  to  come,  through  the 
merits  of  Christ.  (1.)  It  is  one  of  the  three  great  ele- 
ments of  Christian  life  and  character  (1  Cor.  xiii,  13). 
Faith  is  the  root,  love  the  fruit-bearing  stem,  and  hope 
the  heaven-reaching  crown  of  the  tree  of  Christian  life. 
Faith  appropriate^  the  grace  of  God  in  the  facts  of  sal- 
vation ; love  is  the  animating  spirit  of  our  present  Chris- 
tian life ; while  hope  takes  hold  of  the  future  as  belong- 
ing to  the  Lord,  and  to  those  who  arc  his.  The  king- 
dom of  God,  past,  present,  and  future,  is  thus  reflected  in 
faith,  love,  and  hope.  Hope  is  joined  to  faith  and  love 
because  spiritual  life,  though  present,  is  yet  not  accom- 
plished. It  stands  in  opposition  to  seeing  or  possessing 
(Rom.  viii,  24  sq. ; 1 John  iii,  2 sq.) ; but  it  is  not  the 
mere  wish  or  aspiration  for  liberation  and  light  which 
is  common  to  all  creation  (Rom.  viii,  19-22),  nor  the 
mere  reception  of  the  doctrine  of  a future  life,  which 
may  be  found  even  among  the  heathen  philosophers. 
It  is,  beyond  these,  the  assurance  that  the  spiritual  life 
which  dwells  in  us  here  will  be  prolonged  into  eternity. 
Hence,  in  the  scriptures  of  the  N.  T.,  Christians  are  said 
to  have  hope  rather  than  hopes  (Rom.  xv,  4, 13 ; Hcb. 
iii,  6 ; vi,  1 1, 18).  The  Holy  Spirit  imparted  to  believ- 
ers is  the  ground  and  support  of  their  hope  (1  Pet.  i,  3 ; 
Acts  xxiii,  6 ; 2 Cor.  v,  5 ; Rom.  viii,  1 1 ; xv,  13 ; Gal.  v, 
5).  Hence  the  notion  of  hope  appeared  first  in  the  dis- 
ciples in  its  full  force  and  true  nature,  afer  the  resur- 
rection of  Christ  and  the  descent  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  In 
the  O.  Test,  we  do  not  find  it  with  its  significance  (see 
Heb.  vii,  19). 

Thus  hope  is  an  essential  and  fundamental  element 
of  Christian  life,  so  essential,  indeed,  that,  like  faith  and 
love,  it  can  itself  designate  the  essence  of  Christianity 
(1  Pet.  iii,  15;  lleb.  x,  23).  In  it  the  whole  glory  of 
the  Christian  vocation  is  centred  (Eph.  i,  18;  iv,  4);  it 
is  the  real  object  of  the  propagation  of  evangelical  Faith 
(Tit.  i,  2 ; Col.  i,  5, 23),  for  the  most  precious  possessions 
of  the  Christian,  the  amrgpia,  airoXvrpojoiQ,  uio3 eoia, 
£ iRaioovvr] , are,  in  their  fulfilment,  the  object  of  his 
hope  (1  Th ess.  v,  8 sq.;  Rom.  viii,  23  , comp.  Ezech.  i, 
14;  iv,  30;  Gal.  v,  5;  2 Tim.  iv,  8).  Unbelievers  are 
expressly  designated  as  those  who  are  without  hope 
(Eph.  ii,  12;  1 Thess.  iv,  13),  because  they  are  without 
God  in  the  world,  for  God  is  a God  of  hope  (Rom.  xv, 
13;  1 Pet.  i, 21).  But  the  actual  object  of  hope  is  Christ, 
who  is  himself  called  »/  i\mg,  not  only  because  in  him 
we  place  all  our  dependence  (the  general  sense  of  iXirig), 
but  especially  because  it  is  in  his  second  coming  that 


the  Christian’s  hope  of  glory  shall  be  fulfilled  (1  Tim.  i, 

1 ; Col.  i,  27 ; Tit.  ii,  13).  The  fruit  of  hope  is  that 
through  it  we  are  enabled  patiently  and  steadfastly  to 
bear  the  difficulties  and  trials  of  our  present  existence, 
and  thus  the  inropovt)  is  a constant  accompaniment  of 
the  iX Trig  (1  Thess.  i,  3 ; Rom.  viii,  25),  and  even  is  some- 
times put  in  its  place  with  faith  and  love  (Tit.  ii,  2; 
compare  2 Tim.  iii,  10;  1 Tim.  vi,  11).  As  it  is  the 
source  of  the  believer’s  patience  in  suffering,  so  it  is  also 
the  cause  of  his  fidelity  and  firmness  in  action,  since  he 
knows  that  his  labor  “ is  not  in  vain  in  the  Lord”  (1  Cor. 
xv,  58).  Christianity  is  the  religion  of  hope,  and  it  is 
an  essential  point  of  its  absolute  character,  for  whatever 
is  everlasting  and  eternal  is  absolute.  To  the  Chris- 
tian, as  such,  it  is  therefore  not  time,  but  eternity;  not 
the  present,  but  the  future  life,  which  is  the  object  of  his 
efforts  and  hope.  See  1 Icrzog,  Real-Encyklop,  vi,  195; 
Krehl,  Ar.  T.  Handworterhuch,  p.  372. 

(2.)  “ One  scriptural  mark,”  says  Wesley,  “ of  those 
who  are  born  of  God,  is  hope.  Thus  St.  Peter,  speaking 
to  all  the  children  of  God  who  were  then  scattered 
abroail,  saith,  ‘Blessed  be  the  God  and  Father  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  which,  according  to  his  abundant 
mercy,  hath  begotten  us  again  unto  a lively  hope’  (L 
Pet.  i,  3) — iXirida  %w<rav,  a lively  or  living  hope,  saith 
the  apostle,  because  there  is  also  a dead  hope  as  well  as 
a dead  faith ; a hope  which  is  not  from  God,  but  from 
the  enemy  of  God  and  man,  as  evidently  appears  by  its 
fruits,  for  as  it  is  the  offspring  of  pride,  so  it  is  the  par- 
ent of  every  evil  word  and  work ; whereas,  every  man 
that  hath  in  him  the  living  hope  is  ‘holy  as  he  that 
calleth  him  is  holy’ — every  man  that  can  truly  say  to 
his  brethren  in  Christ,  ‘ Beloved,  now  are  we  the  sons  of 
God,  and  we  shall  sec  him  as  he  is,’  ‘ purifieth  himself 
even  as  he  is  pure.’  This  hope  (termed  in  the  Epistle 
to  the  Hebrews,  chap,  x,  22,  7rXtjpo<popia  TricTtioQ,  and 
elsewhere  TrXgpotyopia  iXiridog,  cli.  vi,  11 ; in  our  trans- 
lation, ‘the  full  assurance  of  faith,  and  the  full  assurance 
of  hope,’  expressions  the  best  which  our  language  could 
afford,  although  far  weaker  tliau  those  in  the  original), 
as  described  in  Scripture,  implies,  first,  the  testimony  of 
our  own  spirit  or  conscience  that  we  walk  ‘in  simplicity 
and  godly  sincerity ;’  but,  secondly  and  chiefly,  the  tes- 
timony of  the  Spirit  of  God  ‘bearing  witness  with’  or 
to  ‘ our  spirit  that  we  are  the  children  of  God,’  ‘ and  if 
children,  then  heirs,  heirs  of  God,  and  joint  heirs  with 
Christ.’”  The  passage,  “Thou  didst  make  me  hope 
when  I was  upon  my  mother’s  breasts”  (I'sa.  xxi,  9),  sug- 
gests that  hope  is  an  inbred  sentiment.  Considered  as 
such,  it  implies  (a)  a future  state  of  existence ; ( b ) that 
progress  in  blessedness  is  the  law  of  our  being;  (e)  that 
the  Christian  life  is  adapted  to  our  constitution.  See, 
besides  the  works  above  cited,  Homilist , v,  116;  Jav,  Ser- 
mons, vol,  ii;  Tycrman,  Essay  on  Christian  Hope  (Loud. 
1816,  8vo);  Craig,  Christian  Hope  (Loud.  1820,  ISmo); 
Garbett,  Sermons,  i,  489 ; Wesley , Sermons,  i,  157;  Lid- 
j don,  Our  Lord's  Divinity  (Hampton  Lecture),  p.  72,  75; 
I Martensen,  Dogmatics,  p.  450  sq. ; Pye  Smith,  Christian 
I Theology,  p.  622  sq. ; Pearson,  On  the  Creed,  i,  24.  401, 

I 460,  501 ; Fletcher,  llorCs  (see  Index,  vol.  iv) ; Jahrb. 

I deutsch.  Theol.  x,  694;  Bates,  iPorAs  (see  Index  in  vol. 

; iv) ; Harless,  System  of  Ethics  (Clark’s  Theol.  Libr.),  p. 
174  sq. ; Nitzseh,  System  d.  christl.  Lehre,  § 209  sq. 

Hope,  Matthew  Ik,  a distinguished  Presbyterian 
minister,  and  professor  at  Princeton,  was  born  in  Penn- 
sylvania in  1812,  and  was  educated  at  Jefferson  College 
in  that  state,  lie  entered  the  theological  seminary  at 
Princeton  in  1831,  and,  after  completing  his  theological 
course,  he  also  studied  medicine,  and  received  the  ap- 
propriate degree  from  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  : 
his  object,  in  this  additional  conrse  of  study,  being  the 
more  completely  to  prepare  himself  for  the  missionary 
work.  He  was  ordained  as  a missionary,  and  stationed 
at  Singapore,  India;  but  his  health  failing  him,  he  re- 
turned home,  after  a stay  of  two  years  only.  He  was 
soon  afterwards  elected  assistant  secretary  of  the  Pres- 
byterian Board  of  Education.  In  1846  he  accepted  the 


HOPFNER 


332 


HOPKINS 


office  of  professor  of  belles-lettres  in  the  College  of  New 
Jersey.  In  1854  he  was  also  made  professor  of  political 
economy.  During  the  fourteen  years  of  his  connection 
with  the  college,  he  continued  in  the  diligent  and  thor- 
ough discharge  of  the  duties  of  his  professorship,  with 
the  exception  of  an  interval  of  about  fifteen  months,  the 
most  of  which  was  passed  in  Southern  Europe,  whither 
he  had  gone  to  seek  some  alleviation  of  a deeply-seated 
neuralgic  affection.  He  died  suddenly  at  Princeton, 
Dec.  17,  1859.  He  published  a Treatise  of  Rhetoric  (a 
syllabus  for  his  college  classes'),  and  was  a frequent  con- 
tributor to  the  Princeton  Review. — Presbyterian , Dec. 
1859;  Presbyterian  Hist.  Almanac,  18G1,  p.  90;  Newark 
Daily  Advertiser , Dec.  1859. 

Hopfner,  Heinrich,  a German  theologian,  was 
born  at  Leipsic  in  1582,  and  educated  at  the  university 
of  his  native  place,  and  at  Jena  and  Wittenberg.  In 
1612  he  was  appointed  professor  of  logic  at  Leipsic, 
and  very  soon  alter  was  called  to  Jena  as  professor  of 
theology,  lie  died  in  1642,  Hopfner  wrote  Comrnen- 
tarii  in  veterem  qnam  vocant  loyicam  (Leipsic,  1620): — 
Tractatus  iupriorum  et  posteriorvm  .1  nal.  libr.  A risto- 
telis  (ibid.  1620) : — Saxonia  ecanyelica  (ibid.  1625, 1672) : 
— De  justifications  hominis  peccatoris  coram  Deo  (ibid. 
1639  and  1653;  new  ed.  1728  and  often). — Pierer,  Unit'. 
Lex.  viii,  530. 

Hoph'ni  (Heb.  Choplini ',  perh.  pugilist , ac- 

cording to  others  client ; Sept.  ’Ocpid),  the  first-named 
of  the  two  sons  of  the  high-priest  Eli  (1  Sam.  i,  3;  ii, 
34),  who  fulfilled  their  hereditary  sacerdotal  duties  at 
Shiloh.  Their  brutal  rapacity  and  lust,  which  seemed 
to  acquire  fresh  violence  with  their  father’s  increasing 
years  (1  Sam.  ii,  22,  12-17),  filled  the  people  with  dis- 
gust and  indignation,  and  provoked  the  curse  which 
was  denounce^  against  their  father’s  house  first  by  an 
unknown  prophet  (ver.  27-36),  and  then  by  the  youth- 
ful Samuel  in  his  first  divine  communication  (1  Sam.iii, 
11-1 4).  They  were  both  cut  off  in  one  day  in  the  flower 
of  their  age,  and  the  ark  which  they  had  accompanied 
to  battle  against  the  Philistines  was  lost  on  the  same 
occasion  (1  Sam.  iv,  10,  11).  B.C.  cir.  1130.  The  pre- 
dicted ruin  and  ejectment  of  Eli’s  house  were  fulfilled  in 
the  reign  of  Solomon.  See  Zadok.  The  unbridled 
licentiousness  of  these  young  priests  gives  us  a terrible 
glimpse  into  the  fallen  condition  of  the  chosen  people 
(Ewald,  Gesch.  ii,  538-638).  The  Scripture  calls  them 
“sons  of  Belial”  (1  Sam.  ii,  12). — Smith.  See  Eli. 

Hoph'ra  (Heb.  Chophra’,  “jStl;  Sept.  O ua<ppi} 
[compare  Clem.  Alex.  Strom,  i,  143],  Vulg.  Ephrec),  or 
Pharaoii-IIophra,  king  of  Egypt  in  the  time  of  Zed- 
ekiah,  king  of  Judah,  and  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  king  of 
Babylon.  B.C.  588.  He  formed  alliance  with  the  for- 
mer against  the  latter,  and  his  advance  with  an  Egyp- 
tian army  constrained  the  Chaldeans  to  raise  the  siege 
of  Jerusalem  (Jer.  xxxvii,  5);  but  they  soon  returned, 
and  took,  and  destroyed  the  city.  This  momentary  aid, 
and  the  danger  of  placing  reliance  on  the  protection  of 
Hophra,  led  Ezekiel  to  compare  the  Egyptians  to  a 
broken  reed,  which  was  to  pierce  the  hand  of  him  that 
leaned  upon  it  (Ezek.  xxxix,  6,  7).  This  alliance  was, 
however,  disapproved  by  God ; and  Jeremiah  was  au- 
thorized to  deliver  the  prophecy  contained  in  his  forty- 
fourth  chapter,  which  concludes  with  a prediction  of 
Hophra’s  death,  and  the  subjugation  of  his  country  by 
the  Chakheans.  See  Egypt. 

This  Pharaoh-IIophra  is  identified  with  the  A pries 
('Airptrp;,  Herod,  ii,  161  sq.,  169;  iv,  159;  Diod.  Sic.  i, 
68;  ’ Airpiag , Athen.  xiii,  560)  of  ancient  authors,  and 

(jTp 

ra  ho  ph 

Hieroglyph  of  Ilnphra.  (The  first  character,  ra— the  sun, 

i.  e.  king,  is  read  last ; the  other  characters,  hoph,  signify 

servant  [Rossellini,  I,  iv,  201]  or  priest  [ ovr\(3 , Jablousky, 

Opusc.  i,  444].) 


the  Ouaphris  (Ovaeppic)  of  Manetho,  the  eighth  king  of 
the  twenty-sixth  or  Saitic  dynasty  (Eusebius,  Cliron.  i, 
219).  Under  this  identification,  we  may  conclude  that 
his  wars  with  the  Syrians  and  C’yreiueans  prevented 
him  from  affording  any  great  assistance  to  Zedekiah. 
Apries  is  described  by  Herodotus  (ii,  169)  as  a monarch 
who,  in  the  zenith  of  his  glory,  felt  persuaded  that  it 
was  not  in  the  power  even  of  a deity  to  dispossess  him 
of  his  kingdom,  or  to  shake  the  stability  of  his  sway; 
and  this  account  of  his  arrogance  fully  accords  with 
that  contained  in  the  Bible.  Ezekiel  (xxix,  3)  speaks 
of  this  king  as  “ the  great  dragon  that  lieth  in  the  midst 
of  the  rivers,  which  hath  said,  My  river  is  mine  own, 
and  I have  made  it  for  myself.”  His  overthrow  and 
subsequent  captivity  and  death  are  foretold  with  re- 
markable precision  by  Jeremiah  (xliv,30) : “I  will  give 
Pharaoh-Hoplira,  king  of  Egypt,  into  the  hands  of  his 
enemies,  and  into  the  hands  of  them  that  seek  his  life.” 
This  was  brought  about  by  a revolt  of  the  troops,  who 
placed  Amasis  at  their  head,  and,  after  various  conflicts, 
took  Apries  prisoner.  B.C.  569.  He  was  for  a time 
kept  in  easy  captivity  by  Amasis,  who  wished  to  spare 
his  life ; but  he  was  at  length  constrained  to  give  him 
up  to  the  vengeance  of  his  enemies,  by  whom  he  was 
strangled  (Rawlinson,  Herod,  ii,  209  sq.). — Kitto.  (See 
l!aph el,  De  Pharaom  Hophra , Luneb.  1734.)  See  Pha- 
raoh. 

Hopital  (also  Hospital),  Michel  he  L’.,  a distin- 
guished French  statesman  and  opponent  of  the  Inquisi- 
I tion,  was  born  at  Aigueperse,  in  Auvergne,  about  1504. 
lie  studied  law  at  Toulouse,  and  first  became  known  as 
an  advocate  in  the  Parliament  of  Paris;  and  after  dis- 
charging various  public  functions,  he  became  chancellor 
of  France  in  1560,  during  the  minority  of  Francis  II. 
That  country  at  this  time  ivas  torn  by  contending  fac- 
tions. “ The  Guises,  in  particular,  were  powerful,  am- 
bitious, and  intensely  Catholic ; and  when  one  of  the 
, family,  the  Cardinal  de  Lorraine,  wished  to  establish  the 
Inquisition  in  the  country,  Hopital  boldly  and  lirmlv 
opposed  it,  and  may  be  said  to  have  saved  France  from 
that  detestable  institution.  He  summoned  the  states- 
general,  which  had  not  met  for  80  years,  and,  being  sup- 
ported by  the  mass  of  moderate  Catholics,  he  forced  the 
Guises  to  yield.”  His  speech  at  the  opening  of  the  as- 
sembly was  worthy  of  his  wise  and  magnanimous  spir- 
it: “Let  us  do  away,”  said  he,  “with  those  diabolical 
words  of  Lutherans,  Huguenots,  and  Papists — names  of 
party  and  sedition;  do  not  let  us  change  the  fair  appel- 
lation of  Christians.”  An  ordinance  was  passed  abol- 
ishing arbitrary  taxes,  regulating  the  feudal  authority 
of  the  nobles,  and  correcting  the  abuses  of  the  judicial 
system.  He  also  secured  various  benefits  for  tlse  perse- 
cuted Huguenots  in  various  ways,  but  especially  by  the 
edict  of  pacification,  which  granted  to  the  Protestants 
the  free  exercise  of  their  religion  (issued  January  17, 
1562).  In  1568  he  was  instrumental  in  establishing  the 
peace  of  Longjumeau,  when,  on  account  of  his  opposi- 
tion to  Catharine  de  Medicis,  who  was  inclined  to  break 
the  compact,  lie  was  suspected  of  being  a Huguenot. 
Finding  it  impossible  to  prevent  the  execution  of  Cath- 
arine’s plans,  he  resigned  his  position  (October  7, 1568), 
and  retired  to  his  estate  at  Yignav,  near  Etampes.  He 
died  May  13, 1573.  llopital’s  family  had  all  embraced 
the  Protestant  faith,  and  this  was  well  known  even  at 
court  while  he  occupied  his  prominent  position  there. 
But  his  character  was  so  blameless  that  he  held  his  po- 
sition for  some  time  even  during  the  fearful  contests 
preparatory  to  the  massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew. — Hoe- 
fer,  None.  Biog.  Generate,  xxxi,  86  sq.;  Chambers,  En- 
cyclop.  v,  4 14  sq.;  Pierer,  U hirers.- Lex.  viii,  334 ; Bayle, 
ilistor.  Diet.  p.  505  sq. ; I lerzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  283 
sq. ; Kaumer,  Gesch.  Europa's , ii ; Soldan,  Gesch.  d.  Prof, 
in  Frank}',  ii.  See  Huguenots.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hopkins,  Daniel,  D.D.,  a Congregational  minis- 
ter, was  born  Oct.  16,  1734,  at  Wat  or  bury,  Conn.,  and 
graduated  at  Yale  College  in  1758.  After  being  licensed, 


HOPKINS 


333 


HOPKINS 


he  preached  in  Halifax,  N.  S.,  a short  time.  In  1775  he 
was  chosen  member  of  the  Provincial  Congress,  and  in 
1778  one  of  the  Council  of  the  Conventional  Govern- 
ment.  lie  was  ordained  pastor  of  the  Third  Church  in 
Salem  Nov.  18,  1778,  ami  remained  in  this  place  until 
his  death,  Dec.  14,  1814.  lie  published  two  or  three 
occasional  sermons.— Sprague,  A imals,  i,  581. 

Hopkins,  Ezskisl,  D.D.,  an  English  prelate  and 
author,  was  born  at  Saudford,  Devonshire,  in  1(533.  He 
was  educated  at  Magdalen  College,  Oxford,  and,  after 
holding  a short  time  the  chaplaincy  to  the  college,  he 
became  minister  of  St.  Mary  Woolnoth,  London,  and 
Liter  of  St. Mary’s,  Exeter.  He  finally  removed  to  Ire- 
land with  his  father-in-law,  lord  Bobartes  (afterwards 
earl  of  Truro),  and  was  made  dean  of  llaphoe  in  1669, 
and  bishop  of  the  same  place  in  1G71.  He  was  trans- 
ferred to  Londonderry  in  1681,  but  in  consequence  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  troubles  in  Ireland  he  returned  to  Eng- 
land in  1688,  and  was  appointed  minister  of  Alderrnan- 
bury,  London,  in  1689.  lie  died  June  22,  1690.  In  his 
doctrines  he  was  a Calvinist,  llis  works  are  remarka- 
ble for  clearness,  strength  of  thought,  originality,  and 
pureness  of  style;  the  most  important  are,  Exposition  of 
the  Lord's  Prayer  (1691)  : — J n Exposition  of  the  Ten 
Commandments  (1692,  4to) : — The  Doctrine  of  the  two 
Covenants  (Lond.  1712,  8vo);  and  Works.  now  first  col- 
lected',  with  Life  of  the  Author,  etc.,  by  Josiah  Pratt 
(Lond.  1809,  4 vols.  8vo).  See  Wood,  Atkeiwe  Oxonien- 
s?s,  vol.  ii;  Prince,  Worthies  of  Devon;  Chalmers,  Gen. 
Bioyr.  Diet. ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Bioyr.  Generate,  xxv,  128 ; 
Darling,  Cyclopaedia  Biblioy.  i,  1535.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hopkins,  John  Henry,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  bishpp  of 
the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church  in  the  diocese  of  Ver- 
mont, was  born  of  English  parents  in  Dublin,  Ireland, 
Jan.  30,  1792,  and  came  to  this  country  when  about 
eight  years  old.  lie  was  educated  chiefly  by  his  moth- 
er. In  1817  he  entered  the  legal  profession,  but  six 
years  later  he  quitted  the  bar  fur  the  ministry,  and  was 
ordained  in  1824  as  rector  of  Trinity  Church,  Pittsburg. 
In  1827  lie  Wits  a prominent  candidate  for  the  office  of 
assistant  bishop  of  Pennsylvania,  but  as  the  vote  oi'  Mr. 
Hopkins  was  to  decide  between  himself  and  Dr.  il.  U. 
Onderdonk,  another  candidate,  lie  east  his  vote  in  favor 
of  the  latter.  In  1831  he  became  assistant  minister  at 
Trinity  Church,  Boston,  and  professor  of  divinity  in  the 
Episcopal  Theological  Seminary  of  Massachusetts.  In 
1832  he  was  elected  bishop  of  Vermont,  and  was  conse- 
crated Oct.  31.  At  the  same  time  he  accepted  also  the 
rectorship  of  St.  Paul’s  Church,  Burlington,  Vt.,  which 
he  held  until  1856.  Besides  this,  he  also  established  a 
school  for  boys,  employing  poor  clergymen  and  candi- 
dates for  orders  as  teachers,  llis  heavy  expenses  from 
this  enterprise  embarrassed  him  seriously  for  many 
years.  After  relinquishing  this  school,  he  projected  and 
established  the  “Vermont  Episcopal  Institute,”  a semi- 
theologieal  school,  over  which  he  presided  until  his 
death,  January  9,  1868.  In  1867,  bishop  Hopkins  was 
present  at  the  Pan-Anglican  Synod  held  in  Lambeth, 
and  took  a prominent  part  in  its  proceedings.  In  the 
dissensions  dividing  the  Anglican  Church  he  was  a de- 
cided champion  of  the  High-Church  party,  and  refused 
to  sign  the  protest  of  a majority  of  the  American  bishops 
against  Romanizing  tendencies.  Several  of  the  pos- 
thumous works  of  bishop  Hopkins  will  be  published  bv 
one  of  his  sons.  Bishop  Hopkins  was  one  of  the  most 
learned  men  of  his  denomination.  He  had  remarka- 
ble versatility  of  mind,  and  was  a persevering  and  suc- 
cessful student  in  the  field  of  theology.  Indeed,  “it 
was  hard  to  find  a highway  or  byway  of  ingenious  in- 
vestigation where  he  has  not  left  his  footprint.”  The 
great  mistake  of  his  life,  and  one  which  he  undoubtedly 
regretted  before  his  death,  was  his  apology  for  the  insti- 
tution of  human  slavery.  But  we  have  every  reason  to 
believe  that  the  bishop  was  sincere  in  what  he  preach- 
ed, and  that,  notwithstanding  this  failing,  lie  was  a de- 
vout and  consistent  man  of  God.  He  was  a voluminous 


writer.  Besides  a number  of  pamphlets,  sermons,  and 
addresses,  he  published  Christianity  vindicated  in  a se- 
ries of  seven  discourses  on  the  external  Evidences  of  the 
X.  Test.  (Burlington,  1833, 12ino) : — The  primitive  Creed 
examined  ami  explained  (1834,  12mo) : — The  primitive 
Ch.  compared  with  the  P.  E.  Ch.  (1835,  12mo): — The  Ch. 
of  Rome  in  her  primitive  purity  compared  with  the  Ch.  of 
Rome  at  the  pres,  day  (1839, 12mo) : — Causes,  Principles, 
and  Results  of  the  Brit.  Reform.  (Philad.  1844, 12mo): — 
Hist,  of  the  Confessionals  (N.  V.  1850,  12mo): — Refuta- 
tion of  Milner's  End  of  Controversy  (1854,2  vols.  12mo). 
An  answer  has  recently  been  published  by  Kenriek,  17m- 
dication  of  the  Catholic  Church  (Baltimore,  1855, 12mo). 
Bishop  Hopkins’s  last  works  are  a little  brochure  on  the 
law  of  ritualism — an  argument  based  on  scriptural  and 
historical  grounds  in  behalf  of  the  beauty  of  holiness  in 
the  public  services  of  his  Church;  and  a History  of  the 
Church  in  verse  for  Sunday-schools. — 4 mer.  Ch.  Review , 
April,  1868,  p.  160;  Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors;  Vape- 
reau,  Diet,  des  Contemponvins,  p.  897.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hopkins,  Samuel,  D.D.,  a noted  Calvinistic 
divine,  was  born  at  Waterbury,  Conn.,  Sept.  17,  1721, 
and  was  at  once  set  apart  by  his  father  for  the  ministry 
of  the  Gospel,  lie  entered  Yale  College  in  September, 
1737.  During  his  collegiate  course  the  town  of  New 
Ilaven  was  stirred  by  the  preaching  of  Whitefield  and 
Gilbert  Tennent.  The  students  were  deeply  affected, 
and  Hopkins  was  one  of  the  converted.  After  gradua- 
tion he  commenced  the  study  of  theology  with  presi- 
dent Edwards,  and,  though  not  an  imitator  of  the  presi- 
dent, he  was  more  powerfully  influenced  by  him  than 
by  any  other  man.  In  1741  he  began  to  preach,  but 
with  great  embarrassment  find  despondency.  During 
his  first  few  months  of  probation  he  declined  five  invi- 
tations for  settlement.  On  Dec.  23,  1743,  he  was  or- 
dained over  an  infant  church  of  five  members  in  Ilousa- 
tonick,  now  Great  Barrington,  Mass.  lie  remained  in 
this  pastorate  twenty-five  years.  lie  often  preached 
extemporaneously,  and  was  indefatigable  in  parochial 
labor.  He  gave  offence  to  bis  people  by  his  practice 
of  reading  portions  of  Scripture  in  the  Sabbath  services, 
a practice  which  was  then  unusual  in  New  England. 
From  1744  to  1763  the  prosperity  of  the  church  was  more 
or  less  interrupted  by  the  French  and  Indian  war.  Hop- 
kins wras  obliged  often  to  remove  his  family,  and  some- 
times to  go  himself,  for  safety  from  Great  Barrington, 
llis  criticisms  on  the  military  movements  of  the  British 
army  are  quite  acute : “ Our  generals  are  very  grand. 
The  baggage  of  each  one  amounts  to  five  cart-loads. 
Mighty  preparations,  but  nothing  done.”  On  the  banks 
of  the  Monongahela  Washington  was  uttering  almost  the 
same  words  to  general  Braddock.  His  church,  during 
his  pastorate,  increased  in  membership  from  five  to  116. 
lie  labored  faithfully  among  the  Indians  of  his  vicinity, 
and  spent  much  of  his  time  in  personal  intercourse  with 
Jonathan  Edwards,  then  of  Stockbridgc.  lie  became 
unpopular  with  some  members  of  his  parish  on  account 
of  liis  strict  terms  of  Church  communion,  his  hold  asser- 
tions of  Calvinistic  doctrine,  and  his  staunch  patriotism. 
He  wras  especially  disliked  by  the  British  1 ories.  Some 
of  his  parishioners  would  give  nothing  for  his  support, 
and  others  had  nothing  to  give.  In  great  poverty,  he 
left  his  parish  in  1769.  In  April,  1770,  lie  was  installed 
pastor  of  the  ehurch  at  Newport,  which  town  was  then 
a port  of  commercial  importance,  aiul  for  many  years 
the  rival  of  New  York.  During  the  first  year  of  liis 
pastorate  Hopkins  enjoyed  a visit  from  V hitetield.  His 
church  in  Newport  flourished  until  the  outbreak  of  the 
Revolutionarv  War.  In  1776  the  town  was  captured 
by  the  British,  and  remained  in  their  possession  three 
years.  Hopkins  continued  at  his  post  until  the  last 
moment,  and  then  was  compelled  to  flee.  lie  spent 
the  interval  in  assisting  his  friend,  Dr.  Samuel  Spring,  of 
New  bury  port  (see  Life  and  Times  of  Gardiner  Spring 
[N.  Y.  1866,  2 vols.  l2mo],  i,  12  sq.),  and  in  supplying 
destitute  churches  in  Connecticut.  During  his  absence 
his  people  were  scattered,  and  his  meeting-house  nearly 


HOPKINS 


334 


HOPKINS 


demolished.  He  returned  in  1779,  and  began  to  preach 
in  a private  room,  but  soon  received  aid  from  his  friends 
in  Boston  and  Newburyport  for  the  restoration  of  his 
church  edifice.  He  rejected  eligible  offers  of  settlement 
in  other  places,  and  remained  faithful  to  his  people,  re- 
ceiving no  regular  salary,  but  depending  on  precarious 
and  meagre  contributions. 

As  soon  as  Hopkins  commenced  his  pastoral  labors  at 
Newport  he  began  to  agitate  the  subject  of  slavery.  At 
that  time  Newport  was  the  great  slave-market  of  New 
England.  Hopkins  affirmed  that  the  town  was  built 
up  by  the  blood  of  the  Africans.  Some  of  the  wealthi- 
est members  of  his  church  were  slave-traders,  and  many 
of  his  congregation  were  slave-owners.  He  astonished 
them  by  his  first  sermon  against  the  slave  system.  The 
poet  Whittier  says : “ It  may  well  be  doubted  whether 
on  that  Sabbath  day  the  angels  of  God,  in  their  wide 
survey  of  his  universe,  looked  down  upon  a nobler  spec- 
tacle than  that  of  the  minister  of  Newport  rising  up  be- 
fore his  slaveholding  congregation,  and  demanding,  in 
the  name  of  the  Highest,  the  deliverance  of  the  captive, 
and  the  opening  of  the  prison-doors  to  them  that  were 
bound.”  Only  one  family  left  his  church ; the  others 
freed  their  slaves.  He  continued  to  preach  on  the  sub- 
ject, and  made  himself  intensely  unpopular  throughout 
Rhode  Island.  In  1776  he  published  his  celebrated  Di- 
alogue concerning  the  Slavery  of  the  Africans,  together 
with  his  A ildress  to  Slaveholders,  copies  of  which  were 
sent  to  all  the  members  of  the  Continental  Congress, 
and  to  prominent  men  throughout  the  country.  It  was 
reprinted  by  the  New  York  Manumission  Society  as  late 
as  1785.  llopkins  entered  into  correspondence  with 
Granville  Sharp,  Zachary  Macaulay,  and  other  English 
abolitionists.  From  them  he  borrowed  the  idea  of  col- 
onizing the  blacks ; and  he  devised  a colonization 
scheme,  in  which  he  manifested  a practical  statesman- 
ship unusual  for  a clergyman.  When  the  Federal  Con- 
stitution was  framed  in  1787,  he  pointed  to  the  clause 
recognising  slavery  in  the  United  States,  and  said,  “ I 
fear  this  is  an  Achan,  which  will  bring  a eurse,  so  that 
we  cannot  prosper.”  Of  a movement  so  vast  as  the 
anti-slavery  reform  in  the  United  States  no  one  man 
can  claim  to  be  the  author ; but  Dr.  Hopkins  was  most 
certainly  the  pioneer  in  that  movement. 

It  is  not,  however,  as  a philanthropist,  but  as  a the- 
ologian, that  Hopkins  is  generally  known.  In  his  ex- 
treme indigence  he  writes : “ I have  been  saved  from 
anxiety  about  living,  and  have  had  a thousand  times  less 
care  and  trouble  in  the  world  than  if  I had  had  a great 
abundance.  Being  unconnected  with  the  great  and  rich, 
I have  had  more  time  to  attend  to  my  studies,  and  par- 
ticularly have  had  leisure  to  write  ray  ‘ System  of  Di- 
vinity,’ which  I hope  w ill  not  prove  useless.”  By  this 
system,  and  by  his  various  independent  treatises,  he  gave 
occasion  for  the  name  “ Ilopkinsian,"  as  applied  to  the 
views  of  eminent  New  England  divines.  He  regarded 
himself  as  an  Edxvardean.  He  had  been  the  most  inti- 
mate of  president  Edw'ards’s  companions,  had  revised 
the  president’s  manuscripts,  had  carefully  edited  some 
of  them,  and  was  more  exactly  acquainted  than  any  oth- 
er man  with  the  president’s  original  speculations.  He 
wrote  the  first  memoir  of  Edwards,  of  which  the  Ency- 
clopredia  Britannica  says,  it  is  “ equal  in  simplicity, 
though  by  no  means  in  anything  else,  to  the  most  ex- 
quisite biographies  of  Izaak  Walton.” 

The  prominent  tenets  of  Hopkinsianism  are  the  fol- 
lowing: 1.  All  real  holiness  consists  in  disinterested  be- 
nevolence. 2.  All  sin  consists  in  selfishness.  3.  There 
are  no  promises  of  regenerating  grace  made  to  the  do- 
ings of  the  unregenerate.  4.  The  impotency  of  sinners 
with  respect  to  believing  in  Christ  is  not  natural,  but 
moral.  5.  A sinner  is  required  to  approve  in  his  heart 
of  the  divine  conduct,  even  though  it  should  cast  him 
off  forever.  6.  God  has  exerted  his  power  in  such  a 
manner  as  he  purposed  would  be  followed  by  the  exist- 
ence of  sin.  7.  The  introduction  of  moral  evil  into  the 
universe  is  so  overruled  by  God  as  to  promote  the  gen- 


eral good.  8.  Repentance  is  before  faith  in  Christ.  9. 
Though  men  became  sinners  by  Adam,  according  to  a 
divine  constitution,  yet  they  have,  and  are  accountable 
for,  no  sms  but  personal.  10.  Though  believers  are  jus- 
tified through  Christ’s  righteousness,  yet  his  righteous- 
ness is  not  transferred  to  them.  Dr.  Nathanael  Emmons 
(q.v.),  who  was  the  most  eminent  defender  of  Hopkin- 
sianism, and  who  described  it  as  characterized  by  the 
ten  preceding  articles,  added  the  following  (see  Park, 
Memoir  of  Emmons)  as  his  own  views,  and  as  supple- 
mental to  those  of  his  friend  Hopkins:  1.  Ploliness  and 
sin  consist  in  free  voluntary  exercises.  2.  Men  act  free- 
ly under  the  divine  agency.  3.  The  least  transgression 
of  the  divine  law  deserves  eternal  punishment.  4.  Right 
and  wrong  are  founded  in  the  nature  of  things.  5.  God 
exercises  mere  grace  in  pardoning  or  justifying  penitent 
believers  through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  and  mere 
goodness  in  rewarding  them  for  their  good  works.  6. 
Notwithstanding  the  total  depravity  of  sinners,  God  has 
a right  to  require  them  to  turn  from  sin  to  holiness.  7. 
Preachers  of  the  Gospel  ought  to  exhort  sinners  to  love 
God,  repent  of  sin,  and  believe  in  Christ  immediately. 
8.  Men  are  active,  not  passive,  in  regeneration.  Some 
of  these  eight  propositions  are  distinctly  avowed,  others 
more  or  less  clearly  implied  in  the  writings  of  Hopkins. 
Emmons  regarded  Hopkinsianism  as  in  some  respects 
high  and  intense  Calvinism ; as,  in  other  respects  (the 
doctrine  of  general  atonement  for  example),  moderate 
Calvinism ; and  as,  on  the  whole,  “ consistent  Calvin- 
ism.” 

Amid  his  labors  as  a reformer  and  theologian,  Dr. 
Hopkins  vigorously  discharged  his  parochial  duties,  un- 
til he  was  struck  with  paralysis,  in  his  seventy-eighth 
year.  He  continued  to  preach  during  the  next  four 
years.  With  a revival  of  religion  his  ministry  had  com- 
menced, with  a revival  also  it  ended — the  rising  and 
the  setting  of  his  sun.  He  wrote  out  a list  of  his  con- 
gregation, and  offered  a separate  prayer  for  each  indi- 
vidual. Thirty-one  conversions  followed.  After  his  dis- 
courses on  the  16th  of  Oct.  1803,  he  exclaimed,  “Noiv  I 
have  done;  I can  preach  no  more.”  He  staggered  from 
the  pulpit  to  his  bed,  from  which  he  never  rose.  He 
died  on  the  20th  of  December,  1803. 

In  person  Dr.  Hopkins  was  tall  and  vigorous ; in  his 
movements  dignified,  though  unwieldy.  His  head  was 
large  and  square,  and  his  face  beamed  with  intelligence. 
The  movements  of  his  mind  were  like  those  of  his  body, 
powerful,  but  often  clumsy.  Inflexible  faithfulness  to 
what  he  deemed  his  duty,  with  utter  self-sacrifice  for 
the  right,  was  his  main  characteristic.  “ Love  to  being 
in  general”  was  with  him  not  the  mere  by-word  of  a 
sect,  but  the  enthusiastic  purpose  of  his  life.  He  had 
not  the  temperament  which  inspires  enthusiasm,  and  he 
had  but  little  tact  in  personal  intercourse  with  men ; 
but  in  the  depths  of  his  indigence  he  was  true  to  him- 
self, and  showed  all  the  courage  of  a Hampden.  He 
studied  hardly  ever  less  than  foui-teen  hours  a day,  and 
sometimes  even  as  many  as  eighteen,  in  a little  room  of 
eleven  feet  by  seven.  Every  Saturday  he  fasted,  and 
thus  gained  spiritual  strength  for  the  toils  of  earth  by 
communion  with  Heaven.  He  labored  for  Indians  and 
selfish  white  men ; for  poor  negroes  who  had  then  no 
other  friend ; and  for  theological  science,  which  gave  him 
respect,  but  little  bread — riocit  propter  alios.  In  1854 
his  Works  (before  repeatedly  reprinted)  were  publislic  d 
by  the  Massachusetts  Doctrinal  Tract  Society  (3  vols. 
8vo),  containing  over  2000  pages,  with  a Memoir  by 
Prof.  Edward  A.  Park  of  266  pages. 

The  character  and  writings  of  Dr.  Hopkins  have  re- 
cently been  depicted  for  general  readers  in  a very  strik- 
ing way  in  Airs.  Stowe’s  Minister's  Wooing.  See  also 
Congregat.  Qnar.  Rev.  1864,  p.  1 sq.;  Hagenbaeh,  History 
of  Doctr.  ii,  436, 438;  Slxedd,  Hist,  of  Docir.  i,  383, 408; 
ii,  25,  81,489 ; Buchanan,  Justification,  p.  190.  For  the 
diffusion  of  Hopkinsianism  and  its  later  modifications, 
see  New  England  Theologt.  On  the  relation  of 
Hopkins’s  theory  to  the  orthodox  view  of  redemption, 


IIOPKINS 


335 


HOP 


see  Bangs,  Errors  of  Ilopkinsiunism  (N.  York,  12mo) ; I 
Hodgson,  New  Divinity  Examined  (X.  York,  12 mo) ; art. 
Edwards,  in  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop. ; Christian  Exam- 
iner, 1843,  p.  169  sq. ; Adams,  View  of  all  lieltyions,  p. 
168;  Spring,  On  the  Nature  of  Duty;  Ely,  Contrast  be- 
tween Calvinism  and  Ilopkinsiunism  (N.  Y.  1811) ; Bib. 
Sac.  April,  1852,  p.  448  sq. ; Jan.  1853,  p.  633,  671 ; July, 
1862  (art.  vi) ; New  Enylamhr,  1868,  p.  284  sq. ; Life  and 
Times  of  Gardiner  Spriny  (N.  Y.  1866, 2 vols.  12mo),  ii, 
6 sq.  (W.E.P.) 

Hopkins,  William,  1,  an  English  divine,  was 
born  at  Evesham,  Worcestershire,  and  educated  at  Trin- 
ity College,  Oxford.  lie  entered  the  ministry  in  1675, 
and,  after  holding  several  minor  appointments,  was  made 
vicar  of  Lindridge  in  1686,  and  in  1697  master  of  St.  Os- 
wald’s Hospital,  Worcester.  He  died  in  1700.  He  pub- 
lished Sermons  (1683, 4to)  : — Bart  ram  (or  Rartram),  on 
the  Body  and  Blood  of  the  Lord  (2d  ed.  1688) : — Aninutd. 
on  Johnson's  Answer  to  Jovian  (Lond.  1691, 8vo)  : — Lat- 
in transl.  of  a Saxon  Tract  on  the  Burial-places  of  the 
Saxon  Saints  (in  Hiekes's  Septentrional  Grammar,  Oxf. 
1705).  After  his  death,  Dr.  Geo.  Ilickes  published  Sev- 
enteen Sermons,  with  Life  (Lond.  1708, 8vo). 

Hopkins,  William,  2,  a Church  of  England  cler- 
gyman, but  an  Arian  in  theology,  was  horn  at  Mon- 
mouth in  1706.  He  entered  All  Souls  College,  Oxford, 
in  1724,  and  became  vicar  of  Bolney,  Sussex,  in  1731. 
In  1756  he  became  master  of  the  grammar-school  of 
Cuckfield,  and  died  in  1786.  His  principal  works  are 
An  Appeal  to  the  Common  Sense  of  all  Christian  People 
on  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  (Lond.  1754, 12mo) : — Ex- 
odus, a correct  Translation,  with  Notes  critical  and  ex- 
planatory (Lond.  1784, 4to).  He  published  also  several 
anonymous  pamphlets  against  compulsory  subscription 
to  the  Thirty-nine  Articles. — Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors, 
i,  886;  Darling,  Cyclop.  Biblioyrajrfiica,  p.  1537. 

Hopkinsianism,  a name  given  to  the  theological 
system  of  Dr.  Samuel  Hopkins  (q.  v.). 

Hoplotheca  (QirAoSijicri,  an  armory ) is  the  title 
of  a book  which  contains  the  decisions  of  the  Church 
fathers  against  heretical  doctrines,  and  which  was  used 
to  controvert  such  doctrines.  It  was  most  probably  pre- 
pared at  the  request  of  the  emperor  Emanuel  Conmenus. 
— Fulirmann,  IlandwOrterb.  der  Kirchenyesch.  ii,  347.  (J. 
H.W.) 

Hopton,  Susannah,  a religious  writer,  horn  in  Staf- 
fordshire, England,  in  1627,  was  the  wife  of  Richard 
Hopton,  a Welsh  judge.  She  became  at  one  time  a 
Roman  Catholic,  but,  realizing  her  mistake,  she  return- 
ed to  the  Protestant  Church.  She  died  in  1709.  Her 
writings  are  all  on  religious  topics,  intended  to  lead  the 
reader  to  a devout  and  holy  life.  They  are  Daily  De- 
votions (Lond.  1673,  l2mo;  5th  ed.  1713): — Meditations, 
etc.  (publ.  by  N.  Spin  ekes,  Lond.  1717,  8vo).  She  also 
remodeled  the  Devotions  in  the  ancient  Way  of  Offices 
(originally  by  John  Austin,  who  died  in  1669),  with  a 
preface  by  Dr.  George  Ilickes  (q.  v.)  (1717, 8vo ; new  ed. 
1846,  8vo). — Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  887 ; Darling, 
Cyclop.  Biblioyraph.  i,  1538. 

Hor  (lleb.  id.  “lin  or  Til ; Sept. "Op),  the  name  of 
two  eminent  moimtains  (“inn  “h,  i.  e.  “ Hor  the  moun- 
tain,” remarkable  as  the  only  case  in  which  the  name 
comes  first;  Sept.  “Qp  to  opoc,  Yulg.  Mans  Ilor).  The 
word  Hor  is  regarded  by  the  lexicographers  as  an  ar- 
chaic form  of  liar,  the  usual  Heb.  term  for  “mountain” 
Gesen.  Thus.  p.  391  b;  Fiirst,  Handwb.  s.  v.),  so  that  the 
meaning  of  the  name  is  simply  “ the  mountain  of  moim- 
tains,” as  the  Sept,  have  it  in  one  case  (see  below,  No.  2) 
to  opog  to  opog;  Yulg.  mom  altissimus ; and  Jerome  (Ep. 
ad  Fabiolam ) non  in  monte  simpliciter  sed  in  montis  mon- 
te. See  Mountain. 

1.  An  eminent  mountain  of  Arabia  Petraea,  on  the 
confines  of  Idumaea,  and  forming  part  of  the  mountain 
chain  of  Seir  or  Edom.  1 1 is  first  mentioned  in  Scripture 
in  connection  with  the  circumstances  recorded  in  Numb. 


xx,  22-29.  It  was  “on  the  boundary  line”  (Numb,  xx, 
23)  or  “at  the  edge”  (xxxiii,  37)  of  the  land  of  Edom. 
It  was  the  next  halting-place  of  the  people  after  Kadcsh 
(xx,  22;  xxxiii,  37),  and  they  quitted  it  for  Zalmonah 
(xxxiii,  41),  in  the  road  to  the  Red  Sea  (xxi,  4).  It 
was  during  the  encampment  at  Mt.  Hor  that  Aaron  was 
gathered  to  his  fathers  (Numb,  xxxiii,  37-41).  At  the 
command  of  Jehovah,  he,  his  brother,  and  his  son  as- 
cended the  mountain,  in  the  presence  of  the  people,  “in 
the  eyes  of  all  the  congregation.”  The  garments,  and 
with  the  garments  the  office,  of  high-priest  were  taken 
from  Aaron  and  put  upon  Elcazar,  and  Aaron  died  there 
j in  the  top  of  the  mountain.  In  the  circumstances  of 
the  ascent  of  the  height  to  die,  and  in  the  marked  ex- 
clusion from  the  Promised  Land,  the  end  of  the  one 
brother  resembled  the  end  of  the  other;  but  in  the  pres- 
ence of  the  two  survivors,  and  of  the  gazing  crowd  be- 
low, there  is  a striking  difference  between  this  event 
and  the  solitary  death  of  Moses.  See  Aaron.  The 
Israelites  passed  the  mountain  several  times  in  going  up 
and  down  the  Arabah;  and  the  station  Mosira  (Dent, 
x,  6)  must  have  been  at  the  foot  of  the  mount  (Dcut. 
xxxii,  50).  See  Mosera. 

The  mountain  noiv  identified  with  Mount  Ilor  is  the 
most  conspicuous  in  the  whole  range  of  Mount  Seir,  and 
at  this  day  bears  the  name  of  Mount  Aaron  ( Jibel-J/a - 
run).  It  is  in  N.  lat.  30°  18',  E.  long.  35°  33',  about 
midway  between  the  Dead  Sea  and  the  /Elanitic  Gulf. 
It  may  be  open  to  question  if  this  is  really  the  Mount 
Ilor  on  which  Aaron  died,  seeing  that  the  whole  range 
of  Seir  was  anciently  called  by  that  name;  yet,  from  its 
height,  and  the  remarkable  manner  in  which  it  rises 
among  the  surrounding  rocks,  it  seems  not  unlikely  to 
have  been  the  chosen  scene  of  the  high-priest’s  death 
(Ivinneir,  p.  127).  Accordingly,  Stanley  observes  that 
Mount  Hor  “ is  one  of  the  very  few  spots  connected  with 
the  wanderings  of  the  Israelites  which  admit  of  no  rea- 
sonable doubt”  ( S . and  P.  p.  86).  It  is  almost  unneces- 
sary to  state  that  it  is  situated  on  the  eastern  side  of  the 
great  valley  of  the  Arabah,  the  highest  and  most  con- 
spicuous of  the  whole  range  of  the  sandstone  mountains 
of  Edom,  having  close  beneath  it,  on  its  eastern  side — 
though,  strange  to  sajr,  the  two  are  not  visible  to  each 
other — the  mysterious  city  of  Petra.  The  tradition  has 
existed  from  the  earliest  date.  Josephus  does  not  men- 
tion the  name  of  Hor  (Ant.  iv,  4,  7),  hut  he  describes 
the  death  of  Aaron  as  taking  place  “on  a very  high 
mountain  which  surrounded  the  metropolis  of  the  Ar- 
abs,” which  latter  “was  formerly  called  Arke  ("Anri]), 
j but  now  Petra.”  In  the  Onomasticon  of  Eusebius  and 
| Jerome  it  is  Or  mons — “a  mountain  in  which  Aaron 
died,  close  to  the  city  of  Petra.”  When  it  was  visited 
by  the  Crusaders  (see  the  quotations  in  Robinson,  Re- 
searches, ii,  521)  the  sanctuary  was  already  on  its  top, 
and  there  is  little  doubt  that  it  was  then  what  it  is  now 
— the  Jebel  Nebi-IIarun,  “ the  mountain  of  the  prophet 
Aaron.” 

Of  the  geological  formation  of  Mount  Hor  wc  have  no 
very  trustworthy  accounts.  The  general  structure  of 
the  range  of  Edom,  of  which  it  forms  the  most  promi- 
nent feature,  is  new  red  sandstone,  displaying  itself  to  an 
enormous  thickness.  Above  that  is  the  Jura  limestone, 
and  higher  still  the  cretaceous  beds,  which  latter  in 
Mount  Seir  are  reported  to  be  3500  feet  thick  (I\  ilson, 
Bible  Lamb,  i,  194).  Through  these  deposited  strata 
longitudinal  dikes  of  red  granite  and  porphyry  have 
forced  their  way,  running  nearly  north  and  south,  and 
so  completely  silicifying  the  neighboring  saudstone  as 
often  to  give'  it  the  look  of  a primitive  rock.  To  these 
combinations  are  due  the  extraordinary  colors  for  which 
Petra  is  so  famous.  One  of  the  best  descriptions  of  the 
mountain  itself  is  that  given  by  Irby  and  Mangles  (7Var- 
eb,  p.  433  sq.).  It  is  said  to  he  entirely  sandstone,  in  very 
horizontal  strata  (Wilson,  i,  290).  Its  height,  according 
to  the  latest  measurements,  is  4800  feet  ( Eng.)  above  the 
Mediterranean,  that  is  to  say,  aliout  1700  feet  above  the 
town  of  Petra,  4000  above  the  level  of  the  Arabah,  and 


View  of  Mount  Ilor,  with  “ Aaron’s  Tomb.”  . 


more  than  G000  above  the  Dead  Sea  (Roth,  in  Peterman’s 
Mittheil.  1858,  i,  3).  The  mountain  is  marked  far  and 
near  by  its  double  top,  which  rises  like  a huge  castellated 
building  from  a lower  base,  and  is  surmounted  by  the 
circular  dome  of  the  tomb  of  Aaron,  a distinct  white  spot 
on  the  dark  red  sr.rfaee  of  the  mountain  (Laborde,  p.  143). 
This  lower  base  is  the  “ plain  of  Aaron,”  beyond  which 
Burckhardt  was,  after  all  his  toils, prevented  from  ascend- 
ing (Syria,  p.  431).  “ Out  of  this  plain,  culminating  in 
its  two  summits,  springs  the  red  sandstone  mass,  from 
its  base  upwards  rocky  and  naked,  not  a bush  or  a tree  to 
relieve  the  rugged  and  broken  eorners  of  the  sandstone 
blocks  which  compose  it.  On  ascending  this  mass  a lit- 
tle plain  is  found  to  lie  between  the  two  peaks,  marked 
by  a white  cypress,  and  not  unlike  the  celebrated  plain 
of  the  cypress  under  the  summit  of  Jebel  Musa,  tradition- 
ally believed  to  be  the  scene  of  Elijah’s  vision.  The 
southernmost  of  the  t wo,  on  approaching,  takes  a conical 
form.  The  northernmost  is  truncated,  and  crowned  by 
the  chapel  of  Aaron’s  tomb.”  The  chapel  or  mosque  is  a 
small  square  building,  measuring  inside  about  28  feet  by 
33  (Wilson,  i,  295),  with  its  door  in  the  S.W.  angle.  It 
is  built  of  rude  stones,  in  part  broken  columns;  all  of 
sandstone,  but  fragments  of  granite  and  marble  lie  about. 
Steps  lead  to  the  tlat  roof  of  the.  chapel,  from  which  rises 
a white  dome  as  usual  over  a saint’s  tomb.  The  interior 
of  the  chapel  consists  of  two  chambers,  one  below  the 
other.  The  upper  one  has  four  large  pillars  and  a stone 
chest,  or  tombstone,  like  one  of  the  ordinary  slabs  in 
church-yards, but  larger  and  higher,  and  rather  bigger  at 
the  top  than  the  bottom.  At  its  head  is  a high  round 
stone,  on  which  sacrifices  are  made,  and  which  retained, 
when  Stephens  saw  it,  the  marks  of  the  smoke  and  blood 
of  recent  offerings.  “ On  the.  slab  are  Arabic  inscriptions, 
and  it  is  covered  with  shawls  chiefly  red.  One  of  the 
pillars  is  hung  with  votive  offerings  of  beads,  etc.,  and 
two  ostrich  eggs  are  suspended  over  the  chest.  Steps 
in  the  north-west  angle  lead  down  to  the  lower  chamber, 
which  is  partly  in  the  rock,  but  plastered.  It  is  per- 
fectly dark.  At  the  end,  apparently  under  the  stone 
chest  aljove,  is  a recess  guarded  by  a grating.  Within 
this  is  a rude  protuberance,  whether  of  stone  or  plaster 
was  not  ascertainable,  resting  on  wood,  and  covered  by 
a ragged  pall.  This  lower  recess  is  no  doubt  the  tomb, 
and  possibly  ancient.  What  is  above  is  only  tbe  arti- 
ficial monument,  and  certainly  modern.”  In  one  of  the 
walls  of  this  chamber  is  a “round,  polished  black  stone,” 
one  of  those  mysterious  stones  of  which  the  prototype  is 


the  Kaaba  at  Meeea,  and  which,  like  that,  would  appear 
to  be  the  object  of  great  devotion  (Martineau,  p.  419  sq.). 

The  chief  interest  of  Mount  Hor  will  always  consist 
in  the  prospect  from  its  summit — the  last  view  of  Aaron 
— “ that  view  which  was  to  him  what  Tisgah  was  to  his 
brother”  (Ortlob,  Be  Morte  Aaronis , Lips.  1704).  It  is 
described  at  length  by  Irby  (p.  134),  Wilson  (i,  292-9), 
Martineau  (p.  420),  and  is  well  summed  up  by  Stanley 
in  tbe  following  words:  “We  saw  all  the  main  points 
on  which  his  eye  must  have  rested,  lie  looked  over 
the  valley  of  the  Arabah  countersected  by  its  hundred 
watercourses,  and  beyond,  over  the  white  mountains  of 
the  wilderness  they  had  so  long  traversed ; and  at  the 
northern  edge  of  it  there  must  have  been  visible  the 
heights  through  which  the  Israelites  had  vainly  at- 
tempted to  force  their  way  into  the  Promised  Land. 
This  was  the  western  view.  Close  around  him  on  the 
east  were  the  rugged  mountains  of  Edom,  and  far  along 
the  horizon  the  wide  downs  of  Mount  Seir,  through 
which  the  passage  had  been  denied  by  the  wild  tribes 
of  Esau  who  hunted  over  their  long  slopes.”  On  the 
north  lay  the  mysterious  Dead  Sea,  gleaming  from  the 
depths  of  its  profound  basin  (Stephens,  Incidents).  “A 
dreary  moment  and  a dreary  scene — such  it  must  have 
seemed  to  the  aged  priest.  . . . The  peculiarity  of  the 
view  is  the  combination  of  wide  extension  with  the 
scarcity  of  marked  features.  Petra  is  shut  out  by  inter- 
vening rocks.  But  the  survey  of  tbe  Desert  on  one 
side,  and  the  mountains  of  Edom  on  the  other,  is  com- 
plete ; and  of  these  last  the  great  feature  is  the  mass  of 
red,  bald-headed  sandstone  rocks,  intersected,  not  by  val- 
leys, but  by  deep  seams”  ( S . and  Pal.  p.  87).  Though 
Petra  itself  is  entirely  shut  out,  one  outlying  building — 
if  it  may  be  called  a building— is  visible,  that  which 
goes  by  the  name  of  the  Beir,  or  Convent.  Professor 
Stanley  has  thrown  out  a suggestion  on  the  connection 
between  the  two  which  is  well  worth  further  investiga- 
tion. (See  Robinson,  Researches,  ii,  548,  579,  G51.)  The 
impression  received  on  the  spot  is  that  Aaron’s  death 
took  place-  in  the  small  basin  between  tbe  tAvo  peaks, 
and  that  the  people  Avere  stationed  either  on  the  plain 
at  the  base  of  the  peaks,  or  at  that  part  of  the  wady 
Abu-Kusheybeh  from  Avhieh  the  top  is  commanded.  Jo- 
sephus says  that  the  ground  Avas  sloping  doAvmvards 
( KardvTtQ  ijv  to  \u)piov  ; A id.  hT,  4,  7).  But  this  may 
be  the  mere  general  expression  of  a man  Avho  had  ncA'cr 
been  on  the  spot. — Smith.  (See  Bertou,  Le  mont  Hor , 
Par.  1860.) 


HORiE  CANONICI 


337 


IIORCII 


2.  A mountain  entirely  distinct  from  the  preceding, 
named  in  Numb,  xxxiv,  7,  8,  only  as  one  of  the  marks 
of  the  northern  boundary  of  the  land  which  the  children 
of  Israel  were  about  to  conquer.  By  many  it  has  been 
regarded  as  a designation  of  Mount  Casius,  but  this  is 
rather  the  northern  limit  of  Syria.  The  Targum  Pseu- 
dojon.  renders  Mount  Ilor  by  Umanos,  probably  intend- 
ing Amana.  The  latter  is  also  the  reading  of  the  Tal- 
mud ( Gittin , 8,  quoted  by  Fiirst,  s.  v.),  in  which  it  is 
connected  with  the  Amana  named  in  Cant,  iv,  8.  But 
the  situation  of  this  Amana  is  nowhere  indicated  by 
them.  It  cannot  have  any  connection  with  the  Amana 
or  Abana  river  which  flowed  through  Damascus,  as  that 
is  quite  away  from  the  position  required  in  the  passage. 
Schwarz  ( Palest . p.  25),  after  Parchi  (in  Beuj.  of  Tude- 
la,  p.  413  sq.),  identifies  it  with  Jebel  Nuria , south  of 
Tripoli,  blit  on  frivolons  grounds;,  nor  was  the  mount  in 
question  on  the  Mediterranean,  and  Palestine  did  not 
extend  so  far  north.  The  original  is  “Hi"!  “M,  mount 
of  the  mountain , i.  e.  by  a common  Hebrew  idiom,  the 
Mountain,  by  way  of  eminence,  i.  q.  the  lofty  moimtain ; 
Sept,  ro  6 pog,  Vulg.  mons  altissimus  ; and  therefore 
probably  only  denotes  the  prominent  mountain  of  that 
vicinity,  i.  e.  Lebanon,  or  at  most  Mount  Ilermon,  which 
is  an  offshoot  of  the  Lebanon  range.  It  can  hardly  be 
regarded  here  as  a proper  name.  The  northern  boun- 
dary started  from  the  sea;  the  first  point  in  it  was 
Mount  Hor,  and  the  second  the  entrance  of  Hamath. 
Since  Sidon  was  subsequently  allotted  to  the  most  north- 
ern tribe — Asher,  and  was,  as  far  as  we  know,  the  most 
northern  town  so  allotted,  it  would  seem  probable  that 
the  northern  boundary  would  commence  at  about  that 
point;  that  is,  opposite  to  where  the  great  range  of  Leb- 
anon breaks  down  to  the  sea.  The  next  landmark,  the 
entrance  to  Ilamath,  seems  to  have  been  determined  by 
Mr.  Porter  as  the  pass  at  Ivalat  el-Husn,  close  to  Hums, 
the  ancient  Hamath — at  the  other  end  of  the  range  of 
Lebanon.  Surely  “Mount  Hor,”  then,  can  be  nothing 
else  than  the  great  chain  of  Lebanon  itself.  Looking 
at  the  massive  character  and  enormous  height  of  the 
range,  it  is  very  difficult  to  suppose  that  any  individual 
peak  or  mountain  is  intended  and  not  the  whole  mass, 
which  takes  nearly  a straight  course  between  the  two 
points  just  named,  and  includes  helow  it  the  great  plain 
of  the  Buka’a,  and  the  whole  of  Palestine  properly  so 
called. — Smith. 

Horse  Canonicae,  etc.  See  Breviary;  Hours, 
Canonical  ; etc. 

Ho  'ram  (Heb.  II or  am',  E“n,  lofty;  Sept.  ’Qpaju  , 
v.  r.  ’EAd/i,  Ai\rt/i),  the  king  of  Gezer,  who,  coming  to 
the  relief  of  Lachish,  was  overthrown  by  Joshua  (Josh, 
x,  33).  B.C.  1618. 

Horapollo,  or  Horus  Apollo,  an  Egyptian 
priest,  and  author  of  a treatise  on  Egyptian  Hieroglyph- 
ics. Several  writers  of  this  name  are  mentioned  by  Sui- 
das,  Stephanas  of  Byzantium  under  Phenebethis,  Plio- 
tius  (p.  536,  ed.  Bekker),  and  Eustathius  (Homer,  Od. 
<5),  but  it  is  doubtful  which  of  them  was  actually  the 
author  of  the  treatise  on  Egyptian  Hieroglyphics.  The 
probability  is  that  the  work  was  originally  written  in 
the  Egyptian  language,  and  translated  into  Greek  by 
Philip.  Horns  was  the  name  of  one  of  the  Egyptian 
deities,  who  was  considered  bv  the  Greeks  to  be  the 
same  as  Apollo  (Herod,  ii,  144-156).  We  learn  from 
Lucian.  ( Pro  I mag.  § 27)  that  the  Egyptians  were  fre- 
quently called  by  the  names  of  their  gods.  But,  what- 
ever may  be  thonght  respecting  the  author,  it  is  evident 
that  the  work  was  written  after  the  Christian  sera,  since 
it  contains  allusions  to  the  philosophical  tenets  of  the 
Guosties.  The  value  of  this  work  in  interpreting  exist- 
ing hieroglyphics  has  been  variously  estimated.  Cham- 
pollion,  Leemans,  and  other  recent  scholars  esteem  it 
more  highly  than  former  critics  did.  It  was  printed  for 
the  first  time  by  Aldus  (Venice,  1505),  with  the  Fables 
of  iEsop.  The  best  editions  are  by  Mercer  (1551),  Hce- 
IV.— Y 


schelius  (1595),  De  Pauw  (1727),  and  Leemans  (Amst. 
1834).  The  last  discussed  in  his  Introduction  the  date 
and  authorship  of  the  work.  See  English  Cyclopaedia ; 
Hoofer,  Naur.  Biog.  Gener.  xxv,  166 ; Bunsen,  .Egyptens 
Stelle  in  d.  Weltgesch . i,  402 ; Cliampollion,  Precis  du  Sys- 
tems Ilieroglypkique  des  A neiens  Egyptians,  p.  347  sq. 
Comp.  Hikroulyimiics. 

Horayotli.  See  Talmud. 

Horb,  Johann  Heinrich,  a distinguished  German 
pietist,  brother-in-law  and  co-worker  of  Spener,  was  born 
at  Colmar,  Alsace,  June  11,  1645.  He  studied  at  the 
universities  of  Strasburg,  Jena,  Wittenberg,  and  Co- 
logne, afterwards  travelled  through  the  Netherlands, 
England,  and  France,  and  finally  returned  to  Strasburg 
in  1670.  In  1671  he  received  an  appointment  as  minis- 
ter at  Ilirkenfeld,  and  in  1673  at  Trarbach.  Here  the 
boldness  with  which  he  presented  his  so-called  pietistic 
views  disturbed  the  equanimity  of  the  orthodox  author- 
ities, and  he  was  obliged  to  resign.  He  next  became 
pastor  at  Windsheim,  Franconia,  and  in  1685  accepted  a 
call  as  pastor  of  St.  Nicholas  Church,  Hamburg,  where 
he  found  himself  associated  with  two  other  pietists,  John 
Winkler  and  Abraham  Hinkclmann.  Their  joint  teach- 
ings created  great  excitement,  which  culminated  when, 
in  1693,  Horb  published,  under  the  title  of  I).  Kfugkeit  d. 
Gerechten , a translation  of  Pairet’s  excellent  pamphlet, 
Les  vrais  pnneipes  de  Veducution  Chretienne  des  enfants , 
The  agitation  became  so  violent  that  in  1694  he  was  for- 
mally suspended,  after  which  he  retired  to  Steinbeck, 
where  he  died  in  Jan.  1695.  He  published  Hist.  Ori- 
geniana , etc.  (Frankf.  1670,  4to) : — Hist.  Manicliicorum 
(Argent.  1670, 4to) : — Disquis.  de  ultima  origine  heereseos 
Simonis  Magi  (Leipz.  1669, 4to : also  in  Vogt’s  Bihl.  hist, 
hceresiol.  i,308  sq.) : — Hist,  hares.  Unitarior.  (Frankfort, 
1671, 4to);  and  a collection  of  sermons,  D.  Leiden  Jesu- 
Christi  (Hamburg,  1700). — Herzog,  lleal-Encyldopddie, 
vi,  261 ; Fulirniann,  Handwurterb.  d.  Kirchengesch.  ii,847 
sq. ; Molleri,  Cimbr.  literata,  ii,  355  sq. : Walch,  Relig. 
Streitigkeit.  in  d.  luth.  Kirche,  i,  615  sq. ; Henke,  Kirchen- 
geschichte,  iv,  526  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Horbery,  Matthew,  D.D.,  an  English  divine,  was 
bom  at  Haxay,  Lincolnshire,  in  1707 ; educated  at  Lin- 
coln College,  and  elected  fellow  of  Magdalen  College.  He 
became  successively  vicar  of  Eceleshall,  canon  of  Lich- 
field, vicar  of  Hanburv,  and  rector  of  Staidake.  He  died 
in  1773.  He  was  greatly  respected  as  a sound,  able,  and 
learned  theologian,  and  an  amiable  and  excellent  man. 
His  sermons  were  praised  by  Dr.  Johnson;  they  are 
written  in  nervous,  animated  language,  yet  with  great 
simplicity.  Van  Mihlert  classes  them  “among  the  best 
compositions  of  English  divines.”  His  Works,  includ- 
ing the  Sermons,  and  an  Essay  on  the  Eternity  of  Future 
Punishments,  have  been  collected  and  published  (Oxford, 
1828,2  vols.8vo). — Darling,  Cgclopicdia  Bibliographica, 
i,  1539;  Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  150;  Waterland,  Works, 
i,  116. 242,  254;  vi,416sq. 

Horch,  Heinrich,  S.T.D.,  a German  Pietist  and 
Mystic,  was  born  at  Eschwege,  Hessen,  in  1652.  He 
studied  theology  and  medicine  at  .Marburg,  where  he 
came  under  the  influence  of  the  great  follower  of  Spener 
(q.  v.),  Theodor  Untereyk,  aud  embraced  the  doctrines 
of  the  Mystics.  He  also  studied  the  Cartesian  philoso- 
phy with  much  interest.  In  1683  he  was  appointed 
minister  at  Heidelberg,  in  1685  court  preacher  at  Kreuz- 
nach,  but  in  1687  he  returned  again  to  Heidelberg.  At 
the  university  of  that  place  he  obtained  the  degree  of 
doctor  of  theology.  In  1689  he  went  to  Frankfort  as 
minister  of  a Keformed  Church,  and  in  1790  was  made 
professor  of  theology  at  Hernbom.  By  his  firm  adhe- 
rence, however,  to  the  Mystic  Arnold  (q.  v.),  and  his  pe- 
culiar views  of  theology,  holding,  e.  g.  that  divine  reve- 
lations still  continue,  that  the  symbolical  books  are  use- 
less, that  the  encharist  and  baptism  are  unnecessary,  etc., 
he  finally  lost  his  position  (1698).  He  afterwards  travel- 
led about,  preaching  in  city  halls  and  in  cemeteries.  At 
times  he  even  entered  churches,  and  preached  in  spite 


HOREB 


338 


HORMAH 


of  the  remonstrances  of  the  ministers.  He  was  arrested 
for  this  conduct  in  1699,  and  became  partially  insane. 
He  recovered,  however,  towards  the  close  of  the  year 
1700,  and,  by  the  interposition  of  his  friends,  he  was 
granted  a pension  in  170S,  which  was  continued  until 
his  death,  August  5, 1729.  Horch  was  also  a Millenari- 
an ; he  likewise  demanded  a second  and  more  complete 
reformation  of  the  Church,  advocated  celibacy,  though 
he  did  not  think  the  married  life  sinful,  and  is  said 
to  have  been  a member  of  the  Philadelphia  Society  (q. 
v.),  founded  in  1696  by  Jane  Leade.  He  wrote  a num- 
ber of  works,  of  which  a complete  list  is  given  by  J ocher 
(Gel.  Lex.,  Adelung’s  Supplem.ii,  2138  sq.),  and  of  which 
the  Mystische  u.Prophetiscke  JJibel  (Mark  1712, 4to)  is 
especially  celebrated  as  the  forerunner  of  the  Iierleburg 
Bible  (q.  v.).  See  Haas  (G.  Fr.  L.),  Lebensbeschreib.  d. 
Dr.  Horch  (Casscl,  1769, 8vo) ; Gdbel  (Al.  ),  Geschiehte  d. 
christliche  Lebens  in  d.  rhein.  westph.e v.  Kirch e (Coblenz, 
1852),  ii,  7-11-51 ; Herzog,  Real-Eneyklojiiidie , vi,  262  sq. ; 
Fuhrmann,  Ilandworterbuch  d.  Kirchengesch.  ii,  349  sq. ; 
Theol.  Uniu.  Lex.  ii,  369.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Ho'reb  (Heb.  Choreb',  or  2"h,  desert;  Sept. 
Xtopijfi  or  Xd)pT](3 ; occurs  Exod.  iii,  1 ; xvii,  6 ; xxxiii, 
6;  Dent,  i,  2,  6,  19;  iv,  10,  15;  v,  2;  ix,  8;  xviii,  16; 
xxix,  1;  1 Kings  viii,  9;  xix,  8;  2 Chron.  v,  10;  Psa. 
evi,  19;  Mai.  iv,  4;  Ecclus.  xlviii,  7),  according  to  some, 
a lower  part  or  peak  of  Mount  Sinai,  so  called  at  the 
present  day,  from  which  one  ascends  towards  the  south 
the  summit  of  Sinai  (Jebel  Musa),  properly  so  called  (so 
Gesenius  and  others  after  Burckhardt,  Travels  in  Syria , 
p.  566  sq.) ; but,  according  to  others,  a general  name  for 
the  whole  mountain,  of  which  Sinai  was  a particular 
summit  (so  Hengstenberg,  A nth,  des  Pentat.  ii,  396; 
Iiobinson,  Bibl.  Researches,  i,  177,  551).  See  Sinai. 

Horebites,  a sect  of  the  Hussites,  who,  upon  the 
death  of  Zislta,  when  they  had  retired  from  Bohemia, 
chose  Bedricus  of  Bohemia  as  their  leader.  They  called 
themselves  Horebites  because  they  had  given  the  name 
of  lloreb  to  a mountain  to  which  they  had  retired. — 
Sclirdckh,  Kirchengesch.  xxxiv,  688.  See  Hussites. 

Ho'rem  (Heb.  Chorcm',  Cnfi.  consecrated  [but  for- 
tress according  to  Fiirst]  ; Sept.  ’Qpdp  [but  most  texts 
blend  with  preceding  name  into  McyaXaapqu  or  May- 
Vulg.  Harem),  one  of  the  “fenced  cities” 
of  Naphtali,  mentioned  between  Migdal-el  and  Beth- 
Anath  (Josh,  xix,  38).  Schwarz  (Palest,  p.  184)  con- 
founds it  with  the  place  preceding,  and  seeks  to  identify 
both  in  the  modern  village  Medj  el-Kerum,  eight  miles 
east  of  Akka ; but  this  does  not  lie  within  the  ancient 
limits  of  Naphtali  (Keil,  ad  loc.).  Yan  de  Velde  (i,  178, 
9;  Memoir,  p.  322)  suggests  Ilurah  as  the  site  of  Ho- 
rem.  It  is  an  ancient  site,  in  the  centre  of  the  country, 
half  way  between  the  Ras  en-Nakhura  and  the  lake 
Merom,  on  a tell  at  the  southern  end  of  the  wady  el- Ain, 
one  of  the  natural  features  of  the  country.  It  is  also  in 
favor  of  this  identification  that  Hu  rah  is  near  Yarun, 
probably  the  representative  of  the  ancient  Ikon,  named 
with  Horem.  (Compare  Seetze’n,  Reisen  durch  Syrien, 
Berlin,  1854-9,  ii,  130.) 

Hor-hagid'gad  (Hebrew  Chor  hag-Gidgad',  “PI 
P5P5P1,  hole  of  the  Gidgad;  Sept.  bpoQ  r«cyd<7,Vulg.  mons 
Gadgad,  both  apparently  reading  or  misunderstanding 
“l!j  or  -.in  for  -in),  the  thirty-third  station  of  the  Israel- 
ites between  Bene-Jaakan  and  Jotbathah  (Numb,  xxxiii, 
32,  33) ; evidently  the  same  with  their  forty-first  sta- 
tion Guogodaji,  between  the  same  places  in  the  oppo- 
site direction,  and  not  far  from  Mount  Hor  (Deut.  x,  6, 
7).  Winer  (Realwbrt.  s.  v.  Horgidgad)  assents  to  the 
possibility  of  the  identity  of  this  name  with  that  of 
wady  Ghudhaghid,  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  desert  et- 
Tih  (Robinson’s  Researches,  iii,  App.  210,  b),  although 
the  names  are  spelt  and  signify  differently  (this  valley 
would  be  in  Hebrew  characters  HEXES'),  but  objects  to 
the  identification  thus  proposed  by  Ewald  ( Isral.  Gesch. 


ii,  207)  on  the  ground  that  Win  can  hardly  mean  a wide 
valley.  This  difficulty,  however,  does  not  weigh  much, 
since  the  wady  may  only  be  the  representative  of  the 
name  anciently  attached  to  some  spot  in  the  vicinity, 
more  properly  called  a chasm;  and  even  this  spot  is  suf- 
ficiently a gully  to  form  a receptacle  for  the  loose  sand 
washed  down  by  the  freshets,  which  may  naturally  have 
partly  filled  it  up  in  the  course  of  ages.  With  this 
identification  Rabbi  Schwarz  likewise  agrees  (Palest,  p. 
213).  See  Exode.  The  name  Gidgad  or  Gudgod,  ac- 
cording to  Gesenius,  is  from  an  Etliiopic  reduplicated 
root,  signifying  to  reverberate , as  thunder ; but,  accord- 
ing to  F first,  signifies  a cleft,  from  Wi  or  *H3,  to  incise. 
See  Gudgodah. 

Ho'ri  (Heb.  Chori’,  or  prob.  a “troglo- 

dyte,” or  dweller  in  a cave,  Pin,  otherwise  an  auger ; 
Sept.  Xoppoi,  Oupi,  and  Xo  pps ; Yulg.  I lari  and  Huri), 
the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  A son  of  Lotan  and  grandson  of  Seir,  of  the  abo- 
riginal inhabitants  of  Idumiea  (Gen.  xxxvi,  2;  1 Chron. 
i,  39).  B.C.  cir.  1964. 

2.  The  father  of  Shaphat,  which  latter  was  the  com- 
missioner of  the  tribe  of  Simeon  sent  by  Moses  to  ex- 
plore the  land  of  Canaan  (Numb,  xiii,  5).  B.C.  ante 
1657. 

3.  (Gen.  xxxvi,  30.)  See  IIortte. 

Ho 'rim  (Deut.  ii,  12,  22).  See  Hoiute. 

Ho'rite  (Heb.  Chori’,  ^Pin  or  Vh,  prop,  the  same 
word  as  Hori;  but,  according  to  Fiirst,  noble;  often 
with  the  art.  h-nri),  a designation  (both  singly  and 
collectively)  of  the  people  who  anciently  inhabited 
Mount  Seir,  before  their  supersedure  by  the  Edomites; 
rendered  “ Horites”  in  Gen.  xiv,  6 (Sept.  Xoppaioi, 
Yulg.  Cor r had), ; xxxvi,  21  (Xoppatoc,  Ilorrmts),  29 
(Xoppt,  Horrid)  • “Horite,”  Gen.  xxxvi,  20  (XoppinoQ, 
II or  rims),  “ Horims,”  Deut.  ii,  12  (XappaioQ,  Horrhie- 
us ),  22  (\oppa\oc,  Ilorrhcei).  and  “Hori,”  Gen.  xxxvi, 
30  (Xoppt,  Horrid).  See  Idumjea.  There  are  indica- 
tions of  Canaanitish  affinity  between  the  Horites  and 
the  Hiftites  or  Hivites  (Michaelis,  Spicileg.  i,  169,  and 
De  Troglodytis  Seir,  in  his  Syntagma  Comment.  1759,  p. 
194 ; Faber,  A rchteol.  p.  41 ; Hamelsveld,  iii,  29 ; but  see 
contra  Bcrtheau,  Gesch.  der  hr.  p.  150).  See  Hittite. 
“ Their  excavated  dwellings  are  still  found  by  hundreds 
in  the  sandstone  cliffs  and  mountains  of  Edom,  and  es- 
pecially in  Petra.  See  Edom  and  Edomite.  It  may, 
perhaps,  be  to  the  Horites  Job  refers  in  xxx,  6, 7.  They 
are  only  three  times  mentioned  in  Scripture:  first,  when 
they  were  smitten  by  the  kings  of  the  East  (Gen.  xiv, 
6) ; then  when  their  genealogy  is  given  in  Gen.  xxxvi, 
20-30,  and  1 Chron.  i,  38-42 ; and,  lastly,  when  they 
were  exterminated  by  the  Edomites  (Deut.  ii,  12,  22). 
It  appears  probable  that  they  were  not  Canaanites,  but 
an  earlier  race,  who  inhabited  Mount  Seir  before  the  pos- 
terity of  Canaan  took  possession  of  Palestine  (Ewald, 
Geschiehte,  i,  304,  5)”  (Smith).  Knobel  (Vblkertafel  il. 
Genesis,  p.  195,206)  holds  that  they  formed  part  of  the 
great  race  of  the  Ludim,  to  which  also  the  Repliaim,  the 
Emim,  and  the  Amorites  belonged  (comp.  Hitzig,  Gesch. 
d.  V.  Israel,  Lpz.  1869,  i,  29-36).  In  this  case  the  Amo- 
rites were  of  Shemitic  descent.  xVccording  to  the  ac- 
count in  (Jen.  xxxvi,  20  sq.,  they  were  divided  into  seven 
tribes.  See  Canaan. 

Hor'mall  (Heb.  Chormah’,  JT^n,  devoted  city, 
otherwise  peak  of  a hill;  Sept.  'Eppct  v.  r.  occasionally 
'EppaS  and  dvdSepa),  a royal  city  of  the  Canaanites  in 
the  south  of  Palestine  (Josh,  xii,  14;  1 Sam.  xxx,  30), 
near  which  the  Israelites  experienced  a discomfiture 
from  the  Amalekites  resident  there,  as  they  perversely 
attempted  to  enter  Canaan  by  that  route  after  the  divine 
sentence  of  wandering  (Numb,  xiv,  45;  xxi,  1-3 ; Deut. 
i,  44).  Joshua  afterwards  besieged  its  king  (Josh,  xv, 
30),  and  on  its  capture  assigned  the  city  to  the  tribe  of 
Judah,  but  finally  it  was  included  in  the  territory'  given 


IIORMANN 


339 


IIORN^ 


to  Simeon  (Josh.  xix,  4;  Judg.  i,  17 ; 1 Chron.  iv,  30). 
It  is  elsewhere  mentioned  only  in  1 Chron.  iv,  30.  It 
was  originally  called  Zepjiath  (Judg.  i,  17),  under 
which  name  it  appears  to  have  been  again  rebuilt  and 
occupied  by  lheCanaanites(seeBertheau,adloc.;  Ileng- 
stenberg,  Pentat.  ii,  220);  whereas  the  name  llormah 
was  probably  given  to  the  site  by  the  Israelites  in  token 
of  its  demolition  (see  Numb,  xxi,  3).  Hence  traces  of 
the  older  name  alone  remain.  See  Zephatu. 

Hormann,  Simon,  with  the  surname  Bavarus , was 
prior  in  the  monastery  of  Altenmiinster  St.  Salvator,  in 
Bavaria,  and  later  general  of  the  order.  lie  died  in 
1701.  II  is  works  are  Breviarium  una  cum  Missuli  Mo- 
nialium , and  an  edition  of  Revdationes  ccelestes  8.  Bri- 
gitte, orilinis  S.  Salcatoris  Fundatricis  (Munich,  1G80, 
fol.). — Pierer,  Uni  v. -Lex.  viii,  537. 

Hormisdas,  pope,  born  at  Frosinone,  near  Home, 
was  elected  bishop  of  Rome  in  514,  as  successor  of  Sym- 
niachus.  In  515,  by  invitation  of  the  Eastern  emperor 
Anastasius,  he  sent  an  embassy  to  a council  held  at  Ilcr- 
aclea  for  the  purpose  of  settling  the  points  of  disunion 
between  the  Oriental  and  Occidental  churches ; but  as 
this  council,  as  well  as  a second  one  Infid  in  517,  did  not 
bring  about  any  favorable  results,  Anastasius,  wearied 
bv  llormisdas's  refusal  to  make  any  concessions,  broke 
off  all  relations  with  Rome.  After  his  death  in  518,  his 
successor  Justin  us  made  another  attempt  at  reconcilia- 
tion, and  the  union  of  that  Church  with  Rome  was  final- 
ly restored  in  519,  after  a schism  of  thirty-five  years, 
llormisdas’s  conduct  was  much  more  measured  in  the 
controversy  concerning  Faustus  of  Rhegium,  of  whom 
he  said  that,  though  his  writings  may  not  deserve  a 
place  with  those  of  the  lathers,  yet  that  such  parts  of 
them  were  to  be  received  as  did  not  conflict  with  the 
teachings  of  the  Church.  lie  died  Aug.  G,  523.  Eighty 
letters  of  Hormisdas  are  preserved  in  Labbe.— Ilerzog, 
Real-Encyklop.  vol.  vi ; Labbe,  Concilia , iv,  1413;  Mil- 
man,  Lat.  Christ,  i,  342  sq. ; Riddle,  Papacy , i,  199 ; Bow- 
er, Hist,  of  the  Popes , ii,  279  sq. ; Schaff,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  325 ; 
Neander,  Ch.  History , ii,  533,  G49  sq. ; Hist,  of  Dogmas , p. 
084  ; Hagenbach,  Hist,  of  Doctr.  ii,  280;  Dorner,  Lehre 
v.  d.  Pers.  Christi,  ii,  15G ; Wetzer  u.Welte,  Kirchen-Lex. 
v,  329  ; Bollinger,  Lehrb.  d.  Kirchengesch.  i,  151.  See 
EuTYCIllANS.  (J.  H.W.) 

Horn  ke'ren,  identical  in  root  and  signif.  with 
the  Latin  cornu  and  Engl,  horn;  Gr.  id  par)  is  used  in 
Scripture  with  a great  latitude  of  meaning. 

I.  Literally  (Josh,  vi,  4,  5 ; compare  Exod.  xix,  13 ; 1 
Sam.  xvi,  1, 13;  1 Kings  i,39;  Job  xlii,  14). — Two  pur- 
poses are  mentioned  in  the  Scriptures  to  which  the  horn 
seems  to  have  been  applied.  As  horns  are  hollow  and 
easily  polished,  they  have  in  ancient  and  modern  times 
been  used  for  drinking-vessels  and  for  military  purposes. 
They  were  especially  convenient  for  holding  liquids  (1 
Sam.  xvi,  1, 13;  1 Kings  i,  39),  and  were  even  made  in- 
struments of  music  (Josh.  vi,5). 

1.  Trumpets  were  probably  at  first  merely  horns  per- 

forated at  the  tip,  such  as  are  still  used  upon  mountain- 
farms  for  calling  home  the  laborers  at  meal-time.  If 
the  A.  V.  of  Josh,  vi,  4,  5 (“  rams’  horns,”  *,^£) 

were  correct,  this  would  settle  the  question  [see  Raji’s 
Horn]  ; but  the  fact  seems  to  be  that  52'^  has  nothing 
to  do  with  rcim , and  that  horn , serves  to  indicate 

an  instrument  which  originally  was  made  of  horn, 
though  afterwards,  no  doubt,  constructed  of  different 
materials  (comp.  Varro,  L.  L.  v,  24,  33,  “ cornua  quod  ea 
quae  nunc  sunt  ex  acre  tunc  fiebant  e cornu  bubuli”). 
See  Cokxet.  The  horns  which  were  thus  made  into 
trumpets  were  probably  those  of  oxen  rather  than  of 
rams:  the  latter  would  scarcely  produce  a note  suffi- 
ciently imposing  to  suggest  its  association  with  the  fall 
of  Jericho.  See  Trumpet. 

2.  The  word  “ horn”  is  also  applied  to  a flask , or  ves- 
sel made  of  horn,  containing  oil  (1  Sam.  xvi.  1,  13;  1 
Kings  i,  39),  or  used  as  a kind  of  toilet-bottle,  filled  with 


the  preparation  of  antimony  with  which  women  tinged 
their  eyelashes  (Keren-happueh  -paint-horn , name  of 
one  of  Job’s  daughters,  Job  xlii,  14).  So  in  English 
drinking-liorn  (commonly  called  a horn).  In  the  same 
way  the  Greek  uspac  sometimes  signifies  bugle,  trumpet 
(Xenopli.  An.  ii, 2, 4),  and  sometimes  drinking-horn  (vii, 
2,  23).  In  like  manner  the  Latin  cornu  means  trumpet , 
and  also  oil-cruet  (Horace,  Sat.  ii,  2,  Gl),  and  funnel  (Vir- 
gil, Georg,  iii,  509).  See  also  Ixk-iioun. 

II.  Metaphorically. — These  uses  of  the  word  are  often 
based  upon  some  literal  object  like  a horn,  and  at  other 
times  they  .are  purely  figurative. 

1.  From  similarity  of  Form. — To  this  use  belongs  the 
application  of  the  word  horn  to  a trumpet  of  metal,  as 
already  mentioned.  Horns  of  ivory,  that  is,  elephants’ 
teeth,  are  mentioned  in  Ezek.  xxvii,  15,  either  meta- 
phorically, from  similarity  of  form,  or,  as  seems  more 
probable,  from  a vulgar  error.  See  Ivory.  But  more 
specific  are  the  following  metaphors: 

(1.)  The  altar  of  burnt-offerings  (Exod.  xxvii,  2)  and 
the  altar  of  incense  (Exod.  xxx,  2)  had  each  at  the  four 
comers  four  horns  of  sliittim-wood,  the  first  being  over- 
laid with  brass,  the  second  with  gold  (Exod.  xxxvii,25; 
xxxviii,  2 ; Jer,  xvii,  1 ; Amos  iii,  14).  Upon  the  horns 
of  the  altar  of  burnt-offerings  was  to  be  smeared  with  the 
finger  the  blood  of  the  slain  bullock  (Exod.  xxix,  12; 
Lev.  iv, 7-18;  viii,  15;  ix,  9;  xvi,  18;  Ezek.  xliii,  20). 
By  laying  hold  of  these  horns  of  the  altar  of  burnt -offer- 
ing the  criminal  found  an  asylum  and  safety  (1  Kings  i, 
50;  ii,  28),  but  only  when  the  crime  was  accidental 
(Exod.  xxi,  14).  These  horns  are  said  to  have  served  as 
a means  for  binding  the  animal  destined  for  sacrifice 
(Psa.  cxviii,  27),  but  this  use  Yfiner  (. llandworterb .)  de- 
nies, asserting  that  they  did  not  and  could  not  answer 
for  such  a purpose.  These  altar-horns  are,  of  course,  not 
to  be  supposed  to  have  been  made  of  horn,  but  to  have 
been  metallic  projections  from  the  four  corners  (ywvicu 
K(paroei(jttc,  Josephus,  I Var,  v,  5,  G).  See  Altar. 

(2.)  The  peak  or  summit  of  a hill  was  called  a horn 
(Isa.  v,  1,  where  hill  = horn  in  Heb. ; comp,  icipag , Xen- 
ophon, .4  n.  v,  G,  7,  and  cornu,  Stat.  Thtb.  v,  532 ; Arab. 

Kuriin  1 1 at  tin,”  Robinson,  Bibl.  Res.  ii,  370;  German 
Schreckhorn , Wetterhorn,  Aarhorn ; Celt,  cairn). 

In  Isa.  v,  1,  the  emblematic  vineyard  is  described  as 
being  literally  “in  a horn  the  son  of  oil,”  meaning,  as 
given  in  the  English  Bible,  “a  very  fruitful  hill” — a 
strong  place  like  a hill,  yet  combining  with  its  strength 
pecidiar  fruitfulness. 

(3.)  In  Hab.  iii,  4 (“he  had  horns  coming  out  of  his 
hand”)  the  context  implies  rays  of  light  (comp.  Deut. 
xxiii,  2). 

The  denominative  to  emit  rays,”  is  used  of 

Moses’s  face  (Exod.  xxxiv,  29.  30.  35) : so  all  the  ver- 
sions except  Aquila  and  the  Vulgate,  which  have  the 
translations  Kiparw^gg  ijv,  cornu ta  emit.  This  curious 
idea  has  not  only  been  perpetuated  by  paintings,  coins, 
and  statues  (Zornius,  Biblioth.  Antiq.  i,  121),  but  has  at 
least  passed  muster  with  Grotius  (Amiot.  ad  loc.),  who 
cites  Aben-Ezra’s  identification  of  Moses  with  the  horn- 
ed Mnevis  of  Egypt,  and  suggests  that  the  phenomenon 
was  intended  to  remind  the  Israelites  of  the  golden  calf! 
Spencer  (Leg.  Hebr.  iii,  Diss.  i,  4)  tries  a reconciliation 
of  renderings  upon  the  ground  that  cornua = radii  lucis; 
but  Spanheim  (Diss.  vii,  1).  not  content  with  stigma- 
tizing the  efforts  of  art  in  this  direction  as  “prapostera 
industria.”  distinctly  attributes  to  Jerome  a belief  in  the 
veritable  horns  of  Moses.  See  Nimbus. 

2.  From  similarity  of  Position  and  Use. — Two  princi- 
pal applications  of  this  metaphor  will  be  found — strength 
and  honor.  Of  strength  the  horn  of  the  unicorn  [see 
Unicorn]  was  the  most  frequent  representative  (Deut. 
xxxii,  17,  etc.),  but  not  always;  comp.  1 Kings  xxii.  11, 
where  probably  horns  of  iron,  worn  defiantly  and  sym- 
bolically on  the  head,  are  intended.  Expressive  of  the 
same  idea,  or  perhaps  merely  a decoration,  is  the  Ori- 
ental military  ornament  mentioned  by  Taylor  ( Cahnet's 


HORN 


340 


HORN 


Frag,  cxiv),  and  the  conical  cap  observed  by  Dr.  Liv- 
ingstone among  the  natives  of  S.  Africa,  and  not  im- 
probably suggested  by  the  horn  of  the  rhinoceros,  so 
abundant  in  that  country  (see  Livingstone’s  Travels , p. 
365,450,  557 ; comp.  Taylor,  l.  c.).  Among  the  Druses 
upon  Mount  Lebanon  the  married  women  wear  silver 
horns  on  their  heads.  The  spiral  coils  of  gold  wire  pro- 
jecting on  either  side  from  the  female  head-dress  of 
some  of  the  Dutch  provinces  are  evidently  an  ornament 
borrowed  from  the  same  original  idea.  But  it  is  quite 
uncertain  whether  such  dresses  were  known  among  the 
covenant  people,  nor  do  the  figurative  allusions  in  Scrip- 
ture to  horns  render  it  in  the  least  degree  necessary  to 
suppose  that  reference  was  made  to  personal  ornaments 
of  that  description.  (See  below.) 


/ . / ■» 

Heads  of  modern  Asiatics  ornamented  with  Horns. 


In  the  sense  of  honor , the  word  horn  stands  for  the 
abstract  (my  horn,  Job  xvi,  15;  all  the  horns  of  Israel, 
Lam.  ii,  3),  and  so  for  the  supreme  authority  (comp,  the 
story  of  Cippus,  Ovid,  Met.  xv,  5G5 ; and  the  horn  of  the 
Indian  sachem  mentioned  in  Clarkson’s  Life  of  Penn). 

Perhaps  some  such  idea 
may  be  denoted  by  the 
horned  conical  cap  pecidiar 
to  the  regal  apparel  on  the 
Niuevite  sculptures.  It  also 
stands  for  concrete , whence 
it  comes  to  mean  king,  I'ing- 
dom  (Dan.viii, 2,  etc.;  Zech. 
_ , _ „ , i,  18 ; compare  Tarquin’s 

Horned  Caps  of  the  Assy  r-  dr€am  in  Ac‘cius  ap.  C]cer0 

tan  Kings.  ftV.  i,  22) ; hence,  on  coin^ 

Alexander  and  the  Seleucidoe  wear  horns  (see  cut  in  vol. 


Coin  of  Alexander  the  Great,  represented  as  horned. 


i,  p.  140),  and  the  former  is  called  in  Arab,  two-horned 
(Kor.  xviii,  85  sq.),  not  without  reference  to  Dan.  viiL 
See  Goat. 

Out  of  either  or  both  of  these  last  two  metaphors 
sprang  the  idea  of  representing  gods  with  horns.  Span- 
heim  lias  discovered  such  figures  on  the  Homan  dena- 
rius, and  on  numerous  Egyptian  coins  of  the  reigns  of 
Trajan,  Hadrian,  and  the  Antonines  (Diss.  v,  353).  The 
Bacchus  Ttu'iOOKtpwc;,  or  cornutus,  is  mentioned  by  Eu- 
ripides ( Bacch . 100),  and  among  other  pagan  absurdities 
Arnobius  enumerates  “ Dii  cornuti”  (c.  Gent.  vi). . In  like 
manner  river-gods  are  represented  with  horns  (“  tauri- 
formis  Aufidus,”  Hor.  Od.  iv,  14,25  ; ravpopopipov  op  pa 
Kt]<piaov,  Eurip.  Ion.  12G1 ).  For  various  opinions  on  the 
ground-thought  of  this  metaphor,  see  Notes  and  Queries , 
i,  419, 45G.  Manx  legends  speak  of  a tarroo-ushtey,  i.  e. 
water-bull  (see  Cregeen’s  Manx  Diet.).  (See  Bochart, 
I/ieroz.  ii,  288 ; and,  for  an  admirable  compendium,  with 
references,  Zornius, Bibliotheca  Antiquaria,  ii,  10G  sq.). 

Some  of  these  metaphorical  applications  of  the  word 
horn  require  more  special  elucidation. 

(1.)  Symbolical. — As  horns  are  the  chief  source  of  at- 
tack and  defence  with  the  animals  to  which  God  has 
given  them,  they  serve  in  Scripture  as  emblems  of  pow- 
er, dominion,  glory,  and  fierceness  (Dan.  viii,  5, 9 ; 1 Sam. 
xvi,  1,13;  1 Kings  i, 39;  Josh,  vi, 4, 5;  1 Sam.  ii,  1;  Psa. 
lxxv,  5,  10;  cxxxii,  17;  Luke  i,  69;  Deut.  xxxiii,  17; 
Lam.  ii,  3;  Mic.  iv,  13;  Jer.  xlviii,  25;  Ezek.  xxix,  21 ; 
Amos  vi,  13).  In  1 Kings  xxii,  11,  we  find  a striking 
display  of  symbolical  action  on  the  part  of  the  false  proph- 
et Zedekiah.  lie  made  him  horns  of  iron,  and  said, 
‘“Thus  saith  Jehovah, With  these  thou  slialt  push  the 
Syrians,  until  thou  have  consumed  them.”  Hence,  to 
defile  the  horn  in  the  dust  (Job  xvi,  2)  is  to  lower  and 
degrade  one’s  self,  and,  on  the  contrary,  to  lift  up,  to  ex- 
alt the  horn  (Psa.  lxxv,  4 ; Ixxix,  17 ; cxlviii,  14), is  poet- 
ically to  raise  one’s  self  to  eminent  honor  or  prosperity, 
to  bear  one’s  self  proudly  (comp,  also  1 Chron.  xxv,  5). 
Something  like  this  is  found  in  the  classic  authors  (see 
Horace,  Carm . iii,  21, 18).  The  expression  “ horn  of  sal- 
vation,” which  Christ  is  called  (Luke  i),  is  equivalent  to 
a salvation  of  strength,  or  a Saviour,  who  is  possessed 
of  the  might  requisite  for  the  work  (see  Brunnings,  De 
cornu  salutis,  Ileid.  1743). 

Horns  were  also  the  symbol  of  royal  dignity  and  pow- 
er; and  when  they  are  distinguished  by  number,  they 
signify  'so  many  monarchies.  Thus  horn  signifies  a 
monarchy  in  Jer.  xlviii,  25.  In  Zech.  i,  18,  etc.,  the  four 
horns  are  the  four  great  monarchies,  which  had  each  of 
them  subdued  the  Jews.  The  ten  horns,  says  Daniel, 
vii,  24,  are  ten  Icings.  The  ten  horns,  spoken  of  in  Rev. 
xiii,  1 as  having  ten  crowns  upon  them,  no  doubt  signify 
the  same  thing,  for  so  we  have  it  interpreted  in  xvii,  12. 
The  king  of  Persia  is  described  by  Ammianus  Marcel- 
linus  as  wearing  golden  rams’  horns  by  way  of  diadem 
(69, 1).  The  effigy  of  Ptolemy  with  a ram’s  horn,  as 
exhibited  in  ancient  sculpture,  is  mentioned  by  Span- 
heim,  Dissert,  de  Nuniism.  Hence  also  the  kings  of 
Media  and  Persia  are  depicted  by  Daniel  (viii,  20)  un- 
der the  figure  of  a honied  ram.  See  Ram. 

When  it  is  said,  in  Dan.  viii,  9,  that  out  of  one  of  the 
four  notable  horns  came  forth  a little  horn,  we  are  to 
understand  that  out  of  one  of  the  four  kingdoms  repre- 
sented by  the  four  horns  arose  another  kingdom,  “which 
became  exceeding  great.”  This  is  doubtless  Antioch  us 
Epiphanes ; others  refer  it  to  one  of  the  first  Caesars ; and 
others  refer  it  to  the  Turkish  empire,  and  will  have 
Egypt,  Asia,  and  Greece  to  be  the  three  horns  tom  up  or 
reduced  by  the  Turk.  See  Little  Horn. 

(2.)  Ornamental. — In  the  East,  at  present,  lioms  are 
used  as  an  ornament  for  the  head,  and  as  a token  of  em- 
inent rank  (Rosenmuller,  Morg.  iv,  85).  The  women 
among  the  Druses  on  Mount  Lebanon  wear  on  their 
heads  silver  horns  of  native  make,  “ which  are  the  dis- 
tinguishing badge  of  wifehood”  (Bowring’s  Report  on 
Syria , p.  8).  “ These  tantours  have  grown,  like  other 

horns,  from  small  beginnings  to  their  present  enormous 


HORN 


341 


HORNE 


size  by  slow  degrees,  and  pride  is  the  soil  that  nourished 
them.  At  first,  they  consisted  merely  of  an  apparatus 
designed  to  finish  off  the  headdress  so  as  to  raise  the  veil 
a little  from  the  face.  Specimens  of  this  primitive  kind 
are  still  found  in  remote  and  semi-civilized  districts.  I 
have  seen  them  only  a few  inches  long,  made  of  paste- 
board, aiul  even  of  common  pottery.  By  degrees  the 


more  fashionable  ladies  used  tin, and  lengthened  them;  ] 
then  rivalry  made  them  of  silver,  and  still  farther  pro-  | 
longed  and  ornamented  them ; until  finally  the  princesses 
of  Lebanon  and  Hermon  sported  gold  horns,  decked  with 
jewels,  and  so  long  that  a servant  had  to  spread  the  veil 
over  them.  But  the  day  for  these  most  preposterous 
appendages  to  the  female  head  is  about  over.  After  the 
wars  between  the  Maronites  and  Druses  in  1841  and  1845, 
the  Maronite  clergy  thundered  their  excommunications 
against  them,  and  very  few  Christians  now  wear  them. 
Many  even  of  the  Druse  ladies  have  cast  them  off,  and 
the  probability  is  that  in  a few  years  travelers  will  seek 
in  vain  for  a horned  lady”  (Thomson,  Land  and  Book,  i, 
101). — Smith;  Kitto;  Fairbairn;  Wemyss.  See  Head- 
dress. 

Horn,  Jonx,  or,  more  properly,  John  Bon  (Cornu 
or  Ivorn  being  a translation  of  the  surname,  which  he 
assumed  according  to  the  usage  of  the  times),  was  a dis- 
tinguished bishop  of  the  Ancient  Unitas  Fratrum,  or 
Church  of  the  Bohemian  and  Moravian  Brethren.  He 
was  born  at  Yauss,  in  Bohemia,  near  the  close  of  the 
15th  century.  In  1518  he  was  ordained  to  the  priest- 
hood, and  in  1529  consecrated  bishop  by  a synod  as- 
sembled at  Brandeis,  on  the  Adler.  Three  years  later 
(1532)  he  became  senior  bishop  and  president  of  the 
Ecclesiastical  Council,  which  position  he  held  until  his 
death,  governing  the  Unitas  Fratrum  with  great  wis- 
dom, and  furthering  its  interests  with  ardent  zeal.  Sup- 
ported by  John  Augusta  (q.  v.),  he  inaugurated  a new 
policy,  which  brought  the  Church  out  of  its  partial  ob- 
scurity, and  made  it  thereafter  an  important  element  in 
the  national  history  of  Bohemia.  His  immediate  pre- 
decessor, Martin  Skoda,  had  strictly  abstained  from  all 
intercourse  with  the  Reformers,  following  the  principles 
established  by  Luke  of  Prague  (q.  v.\  Horn,  who  had 
twice  been  a delegate  to  Luther  (1522  and  1524),  and 
who  entertained  a high  regard  for  him  and  his  work, 
reopened  a correspondence  with  him,  and  induced  the 
publication  of  a new  Confession  of  the  Brethren’s  faith  at 
Wittenberg,  with  a commendatory  preface  of  his  own 
(1533).  This  led  to  a still  closer  fellowship,  Horn  send- 
ing two  deputations  to  Luther  in  153G,  a third  in  the 
following  year,  and  a fourth  in  1542.  In  1538  Luther 
publislie'd  another  and  the  principal  Confession  of  the 
Church,  again  with  a preface  from  Horn’s  pen.  This 
Confession  had  been  drawn  up  in  1535,  and  formally  pre- 
sented to  the  emperor  Ferdinand  at  Vienna  (November 
14)  by  several  barons  and  divines  in  the  name  of  the 
Unitas  Fratrum.  Encouraged  by  his  intercourse  with 
Luther,  Horn  also  sent  an  embassy  to  the  Swiss  Reform- 
ers in  1540,  which  resulted  in  a correspondence  with 
Bucer,  Calvin,  and  others.  Thus  the  Brethren  joined 
hands  with  the  Reformers  in  carrying  on  the  great  work 
of  evangelical  truth,  and  gave  the  earliest  tokens  of 
those  efforts  to  bring  about  a union  among  all  Protest- 
ants which  afterwards  resulted  in  the  Consensus  Senilo- 
miriensis  of  the  Polish  churches.  The  most  important 
literary  production  of  bishop  Horn  was  the  authorized 


edition  of  the  German  Ilvnin-book  of  the  Brethren,  pub- 
lished in  1540.  He  died  in  1547.  Bishop  Blaloslav,  the 
illustrious  historian  and  grammarian  of  the  Church, 
wrote  his  biography,  which  is,  however,  no  longer  ex- 
tant. (E.  de  S.) 

Hornbeck.  See  Hoounbeok. 

Horne,  George,  D.D.,  an  English  prelate,  was 
born  at  Othani,  near  Maidstone, 
Nov.  1, 1730.  He  was  educated 
at  University  College,  Oxford, 
where  he  devoted  himself  espe- 
cially to  the  study  of  Hebrew 
and  of  the  fathers.  He  became 
fellow  of  Magdalen  in  1749,  and 
president  in  17(58.  In  1770  he 
was  made  vice-chancellor  of  the 
University  of  Oxford,  dean  of 
Canterbury  in  1781,  and,  finally, 
bishop  of  Norwich  in  1789.  He 
died  Jan.  17,  1792.  In  his  early  youth  he  imbibed  the 
doctrines  of  John  Hutchinson  (q.  v.),  and  defended  them 
in  an  Apology  (1756),  which  is  given  in  vol.  vi  of  his 
collected  Works.  He  was  considered  the  best  preacher 
of  his  time,  a sincere  and  exemplary  Christian,  and  a 
thorough  scholar.  Many  of  his  writings  were  contro- 
versial tracts,  arising  out  of  the  Hutchinsonian  theory, 
and  the  quarrels  which  it  provoked.  His  more  impor- 
tant and  durable  works  are,  Commentary  on  the  Psalms 
(Oxford,  1766, 2 vols.  4to,  often  reprinted) : — Discourses 
on  several  Subjects  and  Occasions  (London,  4th  ed.  1803, 
4 vols,  8vo).  These,  with  his  other  writings,  are  col- 
lected ill  The  Works  of  Bishop  llornr,  with  his  Life,  by 
William  Jones,  of  Navland  (London,  1795,  6 vols.  8vo). 
Sec  Hook,  Eccles.  Biography,  vi,  160 ; Darling,  Cyclo- 
pcedia  Bibliograph.  i,  1541 ; All  i bone,  Did.  of  Authors, 
i,  887 ; Horne  (T.  II.),  Bibliographical  Appendix;  Ch. 
Review,  i,  59 ; Bickersteth,  Bib.  /Stud.  A ssist.  p.  306, 3 19 ; 
Hagenbach,  Hist,  of  Doctr.  ii,  419;  Hardwick,  llist.  of 
the  Reformation,  p.  252,  n.  1 ; 253,  n.  3. 

Horne,  John,  a Nonconformist  divine,  born  in  1615, 
was  educated  at  Trinity  College,  Cambridge.  lie  be- 
came successively  vicar  of  Allhallows,  Lynn,  Regis,  and 
finally  Norfolk  in  1647.  He  was  ejected  for  nonconfor- 
mity in  1662,  and  died  in  1676.  “He  was  a learned 
man,  of  most  exemplary  and  primitive  piety,  very  ready 
in  the  Scriptures,  skilled  in  the  Oriental  languages,  and 
an  Arminian  in  doctrine.”  Shortly  before  bis  ejection 
he  published  The  open  Door  for  Man's  A pproach  to 
God,  or  a Vindication  of  the  Record  of  God  concerning 
the  Extent  of  the  Death  of  Christ.  His  other  principal 
works  are,  The  Brazen  / Serpent , or  God's  grand  Design — 
on  John  iii,  14,  15  (Lond.  1673, 4to): — The  best  Exercise 
for  Christians  in  the  worst  of  Times,  in  Order  to  their 
Security  against  Profaneness  and  Apostasy  — on  Jude 
xx,  21  (Lond.  1671,  sm.  8vo),  etc. — Darling,  Cyclop.  Bib- 
liographica,  i,  1543;  Stoughton  (John),  Eccles.  llist.  of 
England  (Lond.  1870,  2 vols.  8vo),  ii,  407  sip 

Horne,  Melville,  a Wesleyan  minister,  bom  in 
England  in  the  latter  part  of  the  last  century,  was  orig- 
inally a lay  preacher  of  the  Wesleyan  societies,  but  by 
the  advice,  of  his  brethren  he  took  orders  in  the  Church 
of  England,  and  went  as  missionary  to  Sierra  Leone. 
On  his  return  he  was  made  vicar  of  Olney,  later  at  Mac- 
clesfield, and  finally  went  to  West  Thurrock,  Essex.  He 
died  in  the  early  part  of  the  present  century.  Horne  is 
known  especially  by  his  Letters  on  Missions,  addressed 
to  the  Protestant  Ministers  of  the  British  Churches  (1794, 
8vo;  reprinted  at  Boston,  1835),  which,  it  is  generally 
believed,  “ prompted  the  first  counsels  that  led  to  the 
formation  of  the  London  Missionary  Society  (comp.  El- 
lis’s llist.  of  Lond.  Miss.  Soc.  i,  13-15;  Stevens,  llist.  oj 
Methodism,  ii,  295  sq.).  He  published  also  several  of 
his  sermons  (1791-1811).  and  an  Investigation  of  the 
Definition  of  Justifying  Faith  (1809, 12mo). 

Horne,  Thomas  Hartwell,  D.D.,  an  English 
Biblical  scholar,  born  October  20, 1780,  was  educated  at 


Processiou  of  Oriental  Horned  Ladies. 


HORNECK 


342 


HORNEJUS 


Christ’s  Hospital.  At  first  he  became  clerk  to  a barris- 
ter. Devoting  his  leisure  hours  to  the  study  of  the  Bi- 
ble, in  1818  he  published  his  Introduction  to  the  critical 
Study  and  Knowledge  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  (which  has 
now  reached  the  lltli  edition,  and  is  enlarged  from  3 to 
5 vols.  8vo;  it  has  also  been  reprinted  in  this  country 
in  2 vols.  imp.  8vo,  and  4 vols.  8vo),  a work  which  pro- 
cured for  him  admission  into  orders  without  the  usual 
preliminaries.  Subsequently  St.  John’s  College,  Cam- 
bridge, conferred  on  him  the  degree  of  B.D.,  and  two 
American  colleges  that  of  D.D.  In  1824  he  found  em- 
ployment in  the  library  of  the  British  Museum  as  assist- 
ant in  the  department  of  printed  books.  In  1833  arch- 
bishop Howley  appointed  him  to  the  rectories  of  St. 
Edmund  and  St.  Nicholas,  London,  which  positions  he 
held  until  his  death,  Jan.  27, 1862.  Horne  was  for  some 
years  actively  engaged  in  the  work  of  Methodism,  num- 
bering among  his  friends  Dr.  Adam  Clarke  and  Dr. 
Bunting.  He  entered  the  ministry  of  the  Church  of 
England  in  deference  to  the  earnest  desire  of  his  father, 
with  the  hope  of  securing  leisure  for  literary  pursuits, 
but  he  always  maintained  a hearty  interest  in  the 
Church  of  his  early  choice,  and  preserved  to  the  end  of 
his  life  that  simple  and  earnest  godliness  which  Meth- 
odism had  taught  him  to  cultivate  in  his  youthful  days. 
He  was  distinguished  as  a polemic  of  considerable  abil- 
ity ; his  controversial  writings  alone  would  have  given 
him  a high  status  among  the  men  of  his  time;  and  his 
versatility  is  further  attested  by  the  variety  of  his  pub- 
lications, many  of  which  are  given  to  subjects  not  usu- 
ally treated  by  scholars  and  divines.  His  researches  in 
bibliography  were  conducted  with  amazing  industry, 
and  tabulated  with  great  judgment  and  skill.  But  he 
will  be  best  known  to  posterity  by  his  Introduction  to 
the  critical  Study  of  the  Scriptures  (referred  to  above), 
v.liich,  at  the  time  of  its  first  appearance,  was  a marvel 
of  labor  and  scholarship.  Hundreds  of  Biblical  students 
owe  their  taste  for  critical  pursuits  to  the  reading  of 
this  work;  and,  though  somewhat  below  the  spirit  and 
results  of  the  more  recent  criticisms,  it  is  yet  invaluable 
to  those  whose  resources  will  not  permit  the  large  out- 
lay which  the  collection  of  a critical  library  demands. 
The  most  important  of  his  other  works  are,  Compend. 
Jut  rod.  to  the  Study  of  the  Bible,  or  A nalysis  of  the  In- 
trod.  to  the  Holy  Scriptures  (12mo,  1827)  : — Deism  Re- 
futed, or  plain  Reasons  for  being  a Christian  (12mo, 
1810) : — Romanism  contradictory  to  Scripture,  or  the  pe- 
culiar Tenets  of  the  Church  of  Rome,  as  exhibited  in  her 
accredited  Formularies,  contrasted  with  the  Holy  Scrip- 
tures (12mo,  1827) : — Mariolatry,  or  Facts  and  Evidences 
demonstrating  the  Worship  of  the  blessed  Virgin  Mary  by 
the  Church  of  Rome  (2d  ed.  1841): — The  Scripture  Doc- 
trine of  the  Trinity  (I2mo)  : — Manual  of  Parochial 
Psalmody  (18mo,  1829)  i— Manual  for  the  Afflicted  (18mo, 
1832),  etc.  A list  of  all  the  productions  of  Dr.  Horne  is 
given  by  Allibone  (Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  889-892).  See 
Reminiscences,  jwrsonal  and  bibliographical,  of  Thomas 
Hartwell  Horne,  with  Notes  by  his  daughter,  Sarah 
Anne  Cheyne,  and  a short  Introduction  by  the  Rev.  Jo- 
seph B.  M'Caul  (Lond.  1862) ; Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  419 ; 
Kitto,  Bibl.  Cyclop . ii,  324;  Keil,  Introd.  to  X.  T.  p.  38 ; 
Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliog.  i,  154  sq. ; Xorth  Am.  Review, 
xvii,  130  sq. ; Journ.  Sac.  Lit.  v,  29,  250.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Horneck,  Anti  ion  v,  D.D.,  an  English  divine,  was 
born  at  Baccharack,  in  the  Lower  Palatinate,  in  1641. 
He  studied  at  Heidelberg  and  at  Leyden,  and  finally 
went  to  England,  and  entered  Queen’s  College,  Oxford, 
at  the  age  of  nineteen.  Two  years  after  he  became  tu- 
tor to  lord  Torrington,  who  gave  him  the  living  of 
Doulton,  in  Devonshire,  and  procured  him  a prebend  in 
the  church  of  Exeter.  In  1671  he  was  chosen  preacher 
at  the  Savoy,  upon  which  he  resigned  his  living  in  Dev- 
onshire. Admiral  Russel,  afterwards  earl  of  Orford,  rec- 
ommended him  to  the  queen  for  preferment,  and,  by  the 
advice  of  Dr.  Tillotson,  then  archbishop,  he  was  present- 
ed to  the  prebendary  of  Westminster  in  1693.  He  died 
Jan.  31, 1697.  He  was  a good  linguist,  a learned  divine, 


an  excellent  preacher,  and  a faithful  pastor.  His  ehureh 
was  so  crowded  that  it  was  often  difficult  for  him  to 
reach  the  pulpit.  In  the  reign  of  James  II,  when  it  be- 
came clear  that  there  was  danger  of  a revival  of  popery, 
he  spared  no  pains  in  resisting  the  movement.  His 
zeal  for  the  promotion  of  practical  religion  was  inces- 
sant ; and,  among  other  means,  he  made  use  of  the  so- 
called  Religious  Societies  of  the  time,  of  which,  indeed, 
some  suppose  him  to  have  been  the  original  founder. 
The  rules  of  these  societies  seem  in  some  points  to  have 
suggested  to  Wesley  his  class-meetings  (q.  v.).  The 
following  is  a summary  of  them  : “ 1.  All  that  enter  the 
society  shall  resolve  upon  a holy  and  serious  life.  2. 
No  person  shall  be  admitted  into  the  society  until  he 
has  arrived  at  the  age  of  sixteen,  and  has  been  first  eon- 
! firmed  by  the  bishop,  and  solemnly  taken  upon  himself 
I his  baptismal  vows.  3.  The  members  shall  choose  a 
minister  of  the  Church  of  England  to  direct  them.  4. 
They  shall  not  be  allowed  in  their  meetings  to  discourse 
on  any  controverted  point  of  divinity.  5.  Neither  shall 
they  discourse  on  the  government  of  Church  or  84 ate. 
6.  In  their  meetings  they  shall  use  no  prayers  but  those 
of  the  Church,  such  as  the  litany  and  collects,  and  other 
prescribed  prayers ; but  still  they  shall  not  use  any  that 
peculiarly  belongs  to  the  minister,  as  the  absolution.  7. 
The  minister  whom  they  choose  shall  direct  what  prac- 
tical divinity  shall  be  read  at  these  meetings.  8.  They 
shall  have  liberty,  after  prayer  and  reading,  to  sing  a 
psalm.  9.  After  all  is  done,  if  there  be  time  left,  they 
may  discourse  to  each  other  about  their  spiritual  con- 
cerns ; but  this  shall  not  be  a standing  exercise  which 
any  shall  be  obliged  to  attend  to.  10.  One  day  in  the 
week  shall  be  appointed  for  this  meeting  for  such  as 
cannot  come  on  the  Lord's  day;  and  he  that  absents 
himself  without  cause  shall  pay  threepence  to  the  box. 
i 11.  Every  time  they  meet  they  shall  give  sixpence  to 
the  box.  12.  On  a certain  day.  in  the  year,  viz.  Whit- 
Tuesday,  two  stewards  shall  be  chosen,  and  a moderate 
dinner  provided,  and  a sermon  preached ; and  the  money 
I distributed  (necessary  charges  deducted)  to  the  poor. 

' 13.  A book  shall  be  bought  in  which  these  orders  shall 
be  written.  14.  None  shall  be  admitted  into  this  socie- 
ty without  the  consent  of  the  minister  who  presides  over 
it;  and  no  apprentice  shall  be  capable  of  being  chosen. 
15.  If  any  ease  of  conscience  shall  arise,  it  shall  be 
brought  before  the  minister.  16.  If  any  member  think 
fit  to  leave  the  society  he  shall  pay  five  shillings  to  the 
stock.  17.  The  major  part  of  the  society  shall  conclude 
the  rest.  18.  The  following  rules  are  more  especially 
recommended  to  the  members  of  this  society,  viz. : To 
love  one  another.  "When  reviled,  not  to  revile  again. 
To  speak  evil  of  no  man.  To  wrong  no  man.  To  pray, 
if  possible,  seven  times  a day.  To  keep  close  to  the 
Church  of  England.  To  transact  all  things  peaceably 
and  gently.  To  be  helpful  to  each  other.  To  use  them- 
selves to  holy  thoughts  in  their  coming  in  and  going 
out.  To  examine  themselves  every  night.  To  give 
every  one  their  due.  To  obey  superiors,  both  spiritual 
and  temporal.”  Dr.  Homeck’s  writings  include  the  fol- 
lowing: Sermons  on  the  fifth  of  St.  Matthew,  with  The 
Life  of  the  Author,  by  Richard  (Kidder),  lord  bishop  of 
Bath  and  Wells  (Lond.  2d  ed.  1706,  2 vols.  8vo)  : — The 
crucified  Jesus,  or  a Treatise  on  the  Sacrament  of  the 
Lord's  Supper,  etc.  (London,  6tli  edit.  1716,  8vo):—  The 
great  Law  of  Consideration  (Lond.  lltli  ed.  1729,  8vo): 
— The  happy  Ascetic,  or  the  best  Exercise  (on  1 Tim.  iv, 
7),  to  which  is  added  a Letter  concerning  the  holy  Lives 
of  the  primitive  Christians  (Lond.  3d  ed.  enlarged,  1693, 
8vo)  : — The  Fire  of  the  Altar,  a Preparation  for  the 
Lord's  Supper  (London,  13th  ed.  1718, 12mo) : — Sermon 
on  Rom.  viii,  20  (Lond.  1677,  4to). — Darling,  Cyclopwdia 
Bibliograph.  i,  1547;  Hook,  Eccles.  Biogreiphy , vi,  166; 
Birch,  Life  of  Tillotson. 

Hornejus  (Horney),  Konrad,  a German  Lutheran 
divine,  was  born  in  Brunswick  Nov.  25, 1590.  He  stud- 
ied theology,  philosophy,  and  philology  at  Helmstadt, 
where  he  settled  in  1612.  Here  he  became  professor  of 


343 


IIORONAIM 


HORNET 

logic  ami  otliics  in  1619,  and  of  theology  in  1G28.  lie 
died  Sept.  26,  1649.  As  a theologian,  especially  in  the 
Synergistic  controversy  (q.  v.),  he  was  distinguished  for 
his  moderation,  llis  principal  works  are,  IHsputut tones 
etkicie  (Helmst.  1618;  7tl»  ed.  1666)  -,—Exercitationes  et 
disputut tones  logical  (1621)  -.—Disquisitioncs  metaphysical 
(1622):— Institutiones  logical  (1623)  -.—Compendium  dia- 
lectical succindum  (1623;  12th  ed.  1666)  -.—Compendium 
historic z eccles.  (1G49) : — Commentar  z . llebraer  und  den 
Katholiscken  Briefen  (1654) : — Compendium  theologiai 
( Bruns  w.  1655).  — Pierer,  Unice  rsal- Lex  ikon,  \ iii,  542; 
Herzog,  Real-  Encylclop.  vi,  265;  Gass,  Dogmengesch.  ii, 
147,  159,  210 ; Kurtz,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  201. 

Hornet  or  wasp  (fl^Ii,  tsirah',  Exod.  xxiii,  28; 
Dcut.vii,  20;  Josli.  xxiv,  12;  Sept.  o(fn)ida,  Vulg.  cra- 
hro).  The  Heb.  term  appears  to  be  indicative  of  sting- 
ing ; and  the  ancient  versions  with  the  Rabbins  favor 
the  interpretation  of  “hornet”  rather  than  “wasp,”  as 
appears  from  the  application  of  the  above  Greek  r.ml 
Latin  words  (comp.  Aristotle,  Hist.  Anim.  v,  19,  617 ; ix, 
65,  66;  Pliny,  Hist.  Nat.  xi,  24).  The  above  passages 
in  which  the  word  occurs  refer  to  some  means  of  expul- 
sion of  the  Canaanites  before  the  Israelites.  Not  only 
were  bees  exceedingly  numerous  in  Palestine,  but  from 
the  name  Zoreah  (Josh,  xv,  33)  we  may  infer  that  hor- 
nets in  particular  infested  some  parts  of  the  country : 
the  frequent  notices  of  the  animal  in  the  Talmudical 
writers  (Lewysohn,  Zool.  § 405)  lead  to  the  same  con- 
clusion. Geseni ns,  however,  maintains  that  the  term  is 
not  to  be  taken  in  a literal  sense,  but  metaphorically,  as 
the  symbol  of  the  panic  with  which  God  would  inspire 
the  inhabitants,  adducing  the  expressions  “terror  of 
God”  (Gen.  xxxv,  5),  “mighty  destruction”  (Dent,  vii, 
23),  and  the  antithesis  of  the  angel  to  defend  them 
(Exod.  xxiii,  20,  etc.),  in  favor  of  this  interpretation 
(see  Thesaur.  JJeb.  p.  118G).  Indeed,  the  following  ar- 
guments seem  to  decide  in  favor  of  a metaphorical  sense : 
(1)  that  the  word  “hornet”  in  Exod.  xxiii,  28  is  parallel 
to  “ fear”  in  ver.  27 ; (2)  that  similar  expressions  are  un- 
doubtedly used  metaphorically,  e,  g.  “ to  chase  as  the 
bees  do”  (Dent,  i,  44 ; Psa.  cxviii,  12)  ; (3)  that  a simi- 
lar transfer  from  the  literal  to  the  metaphorical  sense 
may  be  instanced  in  the  classical  cestrus,  originally  a 
“gad-fly,”  afterwards  terror  and  madness;  and,  lastly 
(4),  that  no  historical  notice  of  such  intervention  as  hor- 
nets occurs  in  the  Bible.  We  may  therefore  regard  it 
as  expressing  under  a vivid  image  the  consternation 
with  which  Jehovah  would  inspire  the  enemies  of  the 
Israelites,  as  declared  in  Dent,  ii, 25;  Josh.ii,  11.  Among 
the  moderns, Michaelis  has  defended  the  figurative  sense. 
In  addition  to  other  reasons  for  it,  he  doubts  whether 
the  expulsion  of  the  Canaanites  could  be  effected  by 
swarms  of  atyyKuu,  and  proposes  to  derive  the  Hebrew 
from  a root  signifying  “scourges,”  “ plagues,”  scutica, 
plagai , etc.  ( Supplem . ad  Lexic.  I/ebr.  vi,  2154) ; but  his 
reasons  are  ably  refuted  by  RosenmUller,  apud  Bochart 
(llicroz.  Lips.  1796,  iii,  ch.  13,  p.  402,  etc.).  In  favor  of 
the  possibility  of  such  an  event,  it  is  observed  that  yEli- 
an  relates  that  the  Phasclit;e  were  actually  driven  from 
their  locality  by  such  means  (fpaa//\irag  cs  a<pr]K(g  k.  t. 
A.  Hist.  .1  mm.  ix,  28),  and  Bochart  has  shown  that  these 
Thaselitaj  were  a Phoenician  people  ( ut  sup.  p.  412).  For 
a parallel  case  of  an  army  being  seriously  molested  by 
hornets,  sec  Ammian.  Marcell,  xxiv,  8.  Even  Rosen- 
mUllcr  himself  adopts  the  figurative  sense  in  his  Scholia 
on  Exod.  xxiii,  28;  but  on  Josh,  xxiv,  12  he  retracts 
that  opinion,  and  amply  refutes  it.  Ilis  reasonings 
and  refutations  have  been  adopted  by  numerous  writers 
(among  others,  see  Paxton’s  1 llvstrutions  of  Scripture, 
i,  303,  etc.,  Edinb.  1819).  Miclinelis’s  doubt  of  the  ab- 
stract possibility  seems  ver}' unreasonable. when  the  irre- 
sistible power  of  bees  and  wasps,  etc.,  attested  by  nu- 
merous modern  occurrences,  and  the  thin  and  partial 
clothing  of  the  Canaanites,  are  considered.  It  is  ob- 
servable that  the  event  is  represented  by  the  author  of 
the  apocryphal  book  of  Wisdom  (xii,  8)  aj  a merciful 


dispensation,  by  which  the  Almighty,  he  says,  “spared 
as  men  the  old  inhabitants  of  his  holy  land,”  and  “ gave 
them  place  for  repentance.”  If  the  hornet,  considered 
as  a fig,  was  in  any  way  connected  with  their  idolatry, 
the  visitation  would  convey  a practical  refutation  of 
their  error.  Ewald  ( tlesch . d.  V.  Israel,  3d  ed.  Gutting. 
1864-8.  ii,  116  sq.)  connects  the  word  (reading  nryj 
i.  q.  rc*I.02£)  with  Manctho’s  story  (Josephus,  Apion, 

5,  26)  of  the  expulsion  of  the  Israelites  from  Egypt  on 
account  of  a disease.  See  Baalzeuuu. 

The  hornet  ( Vespa  crahro ) is  a hymcnoptcrous  insect 
with  fix  legs  and  lour  wings.  It  bears  a general  resem- 
blance to  the  common  wasp,  hut  is  of  a darker  color,  and 
much  larger.  It  is  exceedingly  fierce  and  voracious, 
especially  in  hot  climates,  but  even  in  Western  countries 
its  sting  is  frequently  dangerous.  Roberts  observes  on 
I)eut.  vii,  20, “The  sting  of  the  hornet  and  wasp  of  the 
East  is  much  more  poisonous  than  in  Europe,  and  the 
insect  is  larger  in  size.  I have  heard  of  several  who 
died  from  having  a single  sting;  and  not  many  days 
ago,  as  a woman  was  going  to  a well 4 to  draw  water,’  a 
hornet  stung  her  in  the  check,  and  she  died  the  next 
day.  The  god  Siva  is  described  as  having  destroyed 
many  giants  by  hornets.”  It  may  be  remarked,  that 
the  hornet,  no  less  than  the  whole  species  of  wasps,  ren- 
ders an  essential  service  in  checking  the  multiplication 
of  flies  and  other  insects,  which  would  otherwise  become 
intolerable  to  man ; and  that  in  regard  to  their  archi- 
tecture, and  especially  their  instincts  and  habits,  they  do 
not  yield  to  their  more  popular  congener,  the  bee,  but 
even,  in  several  respects,  greatly  excel  it.  The  hornet, 
in  common  with  the  other  social  wasps,  displays  great 
ingenuity  in  the  manufacture  of  its  nest.  It  is  made  of 
a coarse  gray  paper,  much  like  the  coarsest  wrapping- 
paper,  but  less  firm.  This  is  arranged  in  several  globose 
leaves,  one  over  the  other,  not  unlike  the  outer  leaves 
of  a cabbage,  the  base  of  which  is  attached  by  a small 
footstalk  to  the  upper  part  of  the  cavity  in  which  it  is 
inclosed.  Within  this  protecting  case  the  combs  are 
built  in  parallel  row 3 of  cells,  exactly  like  those  of  the 
bee,  but  made  of  paper,  and  ranged  horizontally  instead 
of  vertically,  and  in  single  series,  the  entrances  always 
being  downwards.  Each  story  is  connected  with  that 
above  it  by  a number  of  pillars  of  the  common  paper, 
thick  and  massive.  These  cells  do  not  contain  honey, 
but  merely  the  eggs,  and.  in  due  time,  the  young,  being 
in  fact  nursing  cradles.  The  paper  with  which  the  hor- 
net builds  is  formed  either  from  decayed  wood  or  the 
bark  of  trees,  the  fibres  of  which  it  abrades  by  means  ol 
its  jaws,  and  kneads  into  a paste  with  a viscid  saliva. 
When  a morsel  as  large  as  a pea  is  prepared,  the  insect 
flies  to  the  nest  and  spreads  out  the  mass  in  a thin  layer 
at  the  spot  where  it  is  required,  moulding  it  into  shape 
with  the  jaws  and  feet.  It  is  soon  dry,  and  forms  real 
paper,  coarser  than  that  of  the  common  wasp.  (Kirby 
and  Spence,  Introdnct.  to  Entomology,  8vo,  Loud.  1828,  i, 
273, 274 ; Reaumur,  llistoire  des  Jnsectes,  vol.  vi,  Mem.  6, 
4to,  Par.  1734-42;  Wood,  Bible  Animals,  Loud.  1869,  p. 
614  sq.).— Kitto;  Smith;  Fairbairn.  See  Wasp. 

Horologioil  (wpoXnyiov,  literally  a dial ) is  the  ti- 
tle of  one  of  the  “ office-books”  of  the  orthodox  Eastern 
Church.  It  contains  the  daily  hours  of  prayer,  so.  far 
as  respects  their  immovable  portions,  and  answers  in  a 
measure  to  the  Officii tm  Hebdomadal  which  is  found  at 
the  opening  of  each  volume  of  the  breviary  of  the  East- 
ern Church.  But  it  generally  contains  also  other  for- 
mularies of  that  ( ’lmrch.  Sec  Neale,  Introd.  to  the  Hist, 
of  the  Eastern  Church,  ii,  848.  See  Hot' ns. 

Horon.  See  Betii-iiouon  ; IIoroxaim. 

Horona'im  (Ilcb.  Chorona'yim,  (,ro  cav~ 

eiiis;  Sept.  ’Aooivitip  and  ’Qpwratfi),  a Moabitish  city 
near  Zoar,  Luhith.Nimrim,  etc.,  on  a declivity  along  the 
route  of  the  invading  Assyrians  (Isa.  xv,  5;  Jcr.  xlviii, 
3,  5,34) ; probably  the  same  called  IIoi.on  (“*“",  perh. 
by  an  error  for  Iloron , which  would  appear  to  be 


HORONTTE 


344 


HORSE 


the  original  form  of  the  word  IIoTonaim ; from  ih,  a 
hole)  in  Jer.  xlviii,  22  (Sept.  XtXwv,  Vulg.  Helori).  The 
associated  names  only  afford  a conjectural  locality  east 
of  the  north  end  of  the  Dead  Sea,  probably  on  some  one 
of  the  great  roads  (7|^17)  leading  down  from  the  plateau 
of  Moab  to  the  Jordan  valley.  It  is  doubtless  the  Oro- 
n(B  (’£2pu >uat)  of  Josephus  (Ant.  xiii,  15,  4;  xiv,  1,  4). 
Sanballat  “the  Horonite”  (“,3"lh, Neh.ii,10, 19;  xiii, 28) 
was  probably  a native  of  this  place,  and  not  (as  stated 
by  Schwarz,  Palestine,  p.  147)  of  Beth-lioron,  which  was 
entirely  different. 

Ho'ronite  [many  Ilor'onite']  (Heb.  with  the  art. 
ha-ChoronV , "DDnn ; Sept.  6 ’A pio vi , O upavtTi)gt  Vulg, 
IloroniUs),  the  designation  of  Sanballat  (q.v.),  who  was 
one  of  the  principal  opponents  of  Nchemiah’s  works  of 
restoration  (Nell,  ii,  10, 19;  xiii,  28).  It  is  derived  by 
Gesenius  (Thes.  p.  459)  from  Horonaim,  the  Moabitish 
town,  but  by  Fiirst  ( Ilandwb .)  from  Iloron,  i.  e.  Betli- 
horon. — Smith.  The  latter  supposition  agrees  with  the 
local  relations  of  Sanballat  towards  the  Samaritans,  but 
the  former  suits  better  his  heathenish  affinities,  as  well 
as  the  simple  form  of  the  primitive. 

Horse,  DID,  sus,  (Vtoc,  of  frequent  occurrence ; oth- 
er less  usual  or  proper  terms  and  epithets  are : ilD^D, 
suscih',  a mare,  rendered  “company  of  horses,”  i.  e.  caval- 
ry, Cant,  i,  9 ; DPS,  parash',  a horse  for  riding,  “ horse- 
man,” of  frequent  occurrence ; DD7  or  D3“l,  re'keb  or 
rakcib / a beast  of  burden,  also  a chariot,  charioteer,  or 
chariot-horse,  especially  a team,  variously  rendered,  and 
of  frequent  occurrence;  abbir',  “strong,"  as  an 

epithet  of  the  horse,  only  in  Jeremiah,  as  viii,  1G ; xlvii, 
3;  1,  11 ; D3DH,  re'kesh , a horse  of  a nobler  breed,  a 
courser,  rendered  “dromedary”  in  1 Kings  iv, 8;  “mule,” 
Esth.  viii,  10, 14;  “swift  beast,”  Mic.  i,  13;  “ip,  rani- 
mah’,  a mare,  rendered  “ dromedary,”  Esth.  viii,  10.  The 
origin  of  the  first  two  of  these  terms  is  not  satisfactorily 
made  out;  Pott  (Etgm.  Forsch.  i,  GO)  connects  them  re- 
spectively with  Susa  and  Pares,  or  Persia,  as  the  coun- 
tries whence  the  horse  was  derived ; and  it  is  worthy 
of  remark  that  sits  was  also  employed  in  Egypt  for  "a 
mare,  showing  that  it  was  a foreign  term  there,  if  not 
also  in  Palestine.  There  is  a marked  distinction  be- 
tween the  sus  and  the  pa  rash ; the  former  were  horses 
for  driving  in  the  war-chariot,  of  a heavy  build,  the  lat- 
ter were  for  riding,  and  particularly  for  cavalry.  This 
distinction  is  not  observed  in  the  A.  Y.  from  the  circum- 
stance that parash  also  signifies  horseman;  the  correct 
sense  is  essential  in  the  following  passages — 1 Kings  iv, 
26,  “forty-thousand  c/mr/of-horses  and  twelve  thousand 
cavalry-horses ;”  Ezek.  xxvii,  14,  “driving-horses  and 
riding-horses;”  Joel  ii, 4,  “as  riding-horses,  so  shall  they 
run;”  and  Isa.  xxi,7,  “ a train  of  horses  in  couples.” 

The  most  striking  feature  in  the  Biblical  notices  of 
the  horse  is  the  exclusive  application  of  it  to  warlike 
operations;  in  no  instance  is  that  useful  animal  em- 
ployed for  the  purposes  of  ordinary  locomotion  or  agri- 
culture, if  we  except  Isa.  xxviii,  28,  where  we  learn  that 
horses  (A.Y.  “horsemen”)  were  employed  in  threshing, 
not,  however,  in  that  case  put  in  the  gears,  but  simply 
driven  about  wildly  over  the  strewed  grain.  This  re- 
mark will  be  found  to  be  borne  out  by  the  historical 
passages  hereafter  quoted,  but  it  is  equally  striking  in 
the  poetical  parts  of  Scripture.  The  animated  descrip- 
tion of  the  horse  in  Job  xxxix,  19-25,  applies  solely  to 
the  war-horse ; the  mane  streaming  in  the  breeze  (A.  Y. 
“thunder”)  which  “clothes 'his  neck;”  his  lofty  bounds 
“as  a grasshopper;”  his  hoofs  “digging  in  the  valley” 
with  excitement ; his  terrible  snorting — are  brought  be- 
fore 11s,  and  his  ardor  for  the  strife.  The  following  is  a 
close  rendering  of  this  fine  description  of  the  war-horse : 

Canst  thou  give  to  the  horse  prowess  ? 

Canst  thou  clothe  his  neck  [with]  a shuddering  [mane]  ? 

Caust  thon  make  him  prance  like  the  locust  ? 

The  graudeur  of  his  snorting  [is]  formidable. 


They  will  [eagerly]  paw  in  the  valley, 

And  [each]  rejoice  in  vigor; 

He  will  go  forth  to  meet  [the]  weapon: 

He  will  laugh  at  dread, 

Nor  will  he  cower, 

Nor  retreat  from  before  [the]  sword : 

Against  him  may  rattle  quiver, 

Flaming  lance  or  dart  [in  vain]. 

With  praucing  and  restlessness  he  will  absorb  [the] 
earth  [by  fleetness] ; 

Nor  can  he  stand  still  when  the  sonnd  of  the  trumpet 
[is  heard] : 

As  oft  [as  the]  trumpet  [sounds],  he  will  say,  “Aha !” 

For  from  afar  he  cau  scent  [the  battle], 

The  thunder  of  the  captains  aud  shouting. 

So,  again,  the  bride  advances  with  her  charms  to  an  im- 
mediate conquest  “ as  a company  of  horses  in  Pharaoh’s 
chariots”  (Cant,  i,  9) ; and  when  the  prophet  Zechariah 
wishes  to  convey  the  idea  of  perfect  peace,  he  represents 
the  horse,  no  more  mixing  in  the  fray  as  before  (ix,  10), 
but  bearing  on  his  bell  (which  was  intended  to  strike 
terror  into  the  foe)  the  peaceable  inscription,  “Holiness 
unto  the  Lord”  (xiv,  20).  Lastly,  the  characteristic  of 
the  horse  is  not  so  much  his  speed  or  his  utility,  but  his 
strength  (Psa.  xxxiii,  17 ; exlvii,  10),  as  shown  in  the 
special  application  of  the  term  abbir  (“H£X),i.e.  strong, 
as  an  equivalent  for  a horse  (Jer.  viii,  16 ; xlvii, 3 ; 1, 11). 
Hence  the  horse  becomes  the  symbol  of  war,  or  of  a 
campaign  (Zech.  x,  3 ; comp.  Psa.  xiv,  5 ; Deut.  xxxii, 
13;  Psa.  lxvi,  12;  Isa.  lviii,  14,  where  horsemanship  is 
made  typical  of  conquest),  especially  of  speedy  conquest 
(Jer.  iv,  13),  or  rapid  execution  of  any  purpose  (Rev.  vi). 

The  Hebrews  in  the  patriarchal  age,  as  a pastoral 
race,  did  not  stand  in  need  of  the  services  of  the  horse, 
and  for  a long  period  after  their  settlement  in  Canaan 
they  dispensed  with  it,  partly  in  consequence  of  the 
hilly  nature  of  the  country,  which  only  admitted  of  the 
use  of  chariots  in  certain  localities  (Judg.  i,  19),  and 
partly  in  consequence  of  the  prohibition  in  Dent,  xvii, 
16,  which  would  be  held  to  apply  at  all  periods.  Ac- 
cordingly they  hamstrung  the  horses  of  the  Canaanites 
(Josh,  xi,  6,  9).  David  first  established  a force  of  cav- 
alry and  chariots  after  the  defeat  of  Hadadezer  (2  Sam. 
viii,  4),  when  he  reserved  a hundred  chariots,  and,  as  we 
may  infer,  all  the  horses;  for  the  rendering  “houghed 
all  the  chariot-Aoms”  is  manifestly  incorrect.  Shortly 
after  this  Absalom  was  possessed  of  some  (2  Sam.xv,  1). 
But  the  great  supply  of  horses  was  subsequently  effected 
by  Solomon  through  his  connection  with  Egypt ; he  is 
reported  to  have  had  “40,000  stalls  of  horses  for  his 
chariots,  and  12,000  cavalry-horses”  (1  Kings  iv,  26), 
and  it  is  worthy  of  notice  that  these  forces  are  mention- 
ed parenthetically  to  account  for  the  great  security  of 
life  and  property  noticed  in  the  preceding  verse.  There 
is  probably  an  error  in  the  former  of  these  numbers;  for 
the  number  of  chariots  is  given  in  1 Kings  x,  £6;  2 
Chron.  i,  14,  as  1400,  and  consequently,  if  we  allow  three 
horses  for  each  chariot,  two  in  use  and  one  as  a reserve, 
as  was  usual  in  some  countries  (Nenoph.  Cyrop.  vi,  1,  § 
27),  the  number  required  would  be  4200,  or,  in  round 
numbers,  4000,  which  is  probably  the  correct  reading. 
Solomon  also  established  a very  active  trade  in  horses, 
which  were  brought  by  dealers  out  of  Egypt,  and  resold 
at  a profit  to  the  Ilittites,  who  lived  between  Palestine 
and  the  Euphrates.  The  passage  in  which  this  com- 
merce is  described  (1  Kings  x,  28,  29)  is  unfortunately 
obscure ; the  tenor  of  verse  28  seems  to  be  that  there 
was  a regularly  established  traffic,  the  Egyptians  bring- 
ing the  horses  to  a mart  in  the  south  of  Palestine,  and 
handing  them  over  to  the  Hebrew  dealers  at  a fixed 
tariff.  The  price  of  a horse  was  fixed  at  150  shekels  of 
silver,  and  that  of  a chariot  at  600;  in  the  latter  we 
must  include  the  horses  (for  an  Egyptian  war-chariot 
was  of  no  great  value),  and  conceive,  as  before,  that 
three  horses  accompanied  each  chariot,  leaving  the  value 
of  the  chariot  itself  at  150  shekels.  In  addition  to  this 
source  of  supply,  Solomon  received  horses  by  way  of 
tribute  (1  Kings  x,  25).  He  bought  chariots  and  teams 
of  horses  in  Egypt  (1  Kings  x,  28),  and  probably  in  Ar- 
menia, “in  all  lands,”  and  had  them  brought  into  his 


HORSE 


345 


HORSE 


dominions  in  strings,  in  the  same  manner  as  horses  are 
still  conducted  to  and  from  fairs : for  this  interpretation, 
as  offered  by  professor  Paxton,  appears  to  convey  the 
natural  and  true  meaning  of  the  text ; and  not  “ strings 
of  linen  yarn,”  which  here  seem  to  be  out  of  place  ('2 
Chron.  i,  16,  17 ; ix,  25,  28).  The  cavalry  force  was 
maintained  by  the  succeeding  kings,  and  frequent  no- 
tices occur  both  of  riding-horses  and  chariots  (2  Kings 
ix,  21,  33;  xi,  16),  and  particidarly  of  war-chariots  (1 
Kings  xxii,  4;  2 Kings  iii,  7;  Isa.  ii,  7).  The  force 
Bcems  to  have  failed  in  the  time  of  Hezekiah  (2  Kings 
xviii,  23)  in  Judah,  as  it  had  previously  in  Israel  under 
Jehoahaz  (2  Kings  xiii,  7).  Josiah  took  away  the 
horses  which  the  kings  of  Judah,  his  predecessors,  had 
consecrated  to  the  sun  (2  Kings  xxiii,  11).  .See  Sux. 
The  number  of  horses  belonging  to  the  Jews  on  their 
return  from  Babylon  is  stated  at  736  (Neh.  vii,  68). 

In  the  countries  adjacent  to  Palestine  the  use  of  the 
horse  was  much  more  frequent.  It  was  introduced  into 
Egypt  probably  by  the  Hyksos,  as  it  is  not  represented 
on  the  monuments  before  the  18th  dynasty  (Wilkinson, 
i,  386,  abridgm.).  Yet  these  animals  are  not  mentioned 
among  the  presents  which  Abraham  received  from  Pha- 
raoh (Gen.  xii,  16),  and  occur  lirst  in  Scripture  among 
the  valuables  paid  by  the  Egyptians  to  Joseph  in  ex- 
change for  grain  (Gen.  xlvii,  17).  They  were  still  suf- 
ficiently important  to  be  expressly  mentioned  in  the 
funeral  procession  which  accompanied  the  body  of  Ja- 
cob to  his  sepulchre  in  Canaan  (Gen.  i,  9).  At  the 
period  of  the  Exodus  horses  were  abundant  in  Egypt 
(Exod.  ix,  3;  xiv,  9,  23;  Deut.  xvii,  17),  and  subse- 
quently, as  we  have  already  seen,  they,  were  able  to 
supply  the  nations  of  Western  Asia.  The  Tyrians  pur- 
chased these  animals  from  Solomon,  and  in  the  time  of 


Ezekiel  imported  horses  themselves  from  Togarmali  or 
Armenia  (Ezek.  xxvii,  14).  The  Jewish  kings  sought 
the  assistance  of  the  Egyptians  against  the  Assyrians 
in  this  respect  (Isa.  xxxi,  1 ; xxxvi,  8;  Ezek.  xvii,  15). 
The  Canaanites  were  possessed  of  them  (Deut.  xx,  1 ; 
Josh,  xi,  4 ; J udg.  iv,  3 ; v,  22, 28),  and  likewise  the  Syr- 
ians (2  Sam.  viii,  4;  1 Kings  xx,  1 ; 2 Kings  vi,  14;  vii, 
7,  10)— notices  which  are  confirmed  by  the  pictorial 
representations  on  Egyptian  monuments  (Wilkinson, 


i,  393,  397,  401),  and  by  the  Assyrian  inscriptions  re- 
lating to  Syrian  expeditions.  But  the  cavalry  of  the 
Assyrians  themselves  and  other  Eastern  nations  was  re- 
garded as  most  formidable ; the  horses  themselves  were 
highly  bred,  as  the  Assyrian  sculptures  still  testify,  and 
fully  merited  the  praise  bestowed  on  them  by  Ilabakkuk 
(i,  8),  “ swifter  than  leopards,  and  more  fierce  than  the 
evening  wolves;”  their  riders  “clothed  in  blue,  captains 
and  rulers,  all  of  them  desirable  young  men”  (Ezek. 
xxiii,  6),  armed  with  “ the  bright  sword  and  glittering 
spear”  (Nah.  iii,  3),  made  a deep  impression  on  the 
Jews,  who,  plainly  clad,  went  on  foot;  as  also  did  their 
regular  array  as  they  proceeded  in  couples,  contrasting 
with  the  disorderly  troops  of  asses  ami  camels  which 
followed  with  the  baggage  (Isa.  xxi,  7,  reM  in  this 
passage  signifying  rather  a train  than  a single  chariot). 
The  number  employed  by  the  Eastern  potentates  was 
very  great,  Holofernes  possessing  not  less  than  12,000 
(Judith  ii,  15).  At  a later  period  we  have  frequent 
notices  of  the  cavalry  of  the  Graeco-Syrian  monarchs  (1 
Mace.  i,  18 ; iii,  39,  etc.). 


The  above  notices  of  the  use  of  the  horse  by  the  an« 
eient  Egyptians  derives  abundant  illustration  from  their 
monuments.  In  the  sculptured  battle-scenes,  which  are 
believed  to  represent  victories  of  Sesostris,  or  of  Thoth- 
mes  II  and  III,  over  nations  of  Central  Asia,  it  is  evi- 
dent that  the  enemy’s  armies,  as  well  as  the  foreign 
allies  of  Egypt,  were  abundantly  supplied  with  horses, 
both  for  chariots  and  for  riders;  and  in  triumphal  pro- 
cessions they  are  shown  as  presents  or  tribute— proving 
that  they  were  portions  of  the  national  wealth  of  con- 
quered states  sufficiently  valuable  to  be  prized  in  Egypt. 
That  the  Assyrians  and  Babylonians  were  equally  well 
supplied  with  this  valuable  animal  is  likewise  attested 
by  the  martial  scenes  depicted  on  the  sculptures  discov- 
ered among  the  ruins  of  Nineveh  ami  the  vicinity. 
They  are  represented  in  almost  every  variety  of  posi- 
tion and  employment,  such  as  the  chase,  and  for  other 
purposes  of  pleasure;  but  chiefly  in  war,  for  which  the 
Assyrians  used  them  both  with  the  saddle  and  in  the 
chariot.  According  to  Air.  Layard  ( Xinerch , 1st  series, 
i,  275  sq.),  the  horses  of  the  Assyrians  were  well  formed 
and  of  noble  blood,  as  appears  from  the  fig- 
ures no  doubt  faithfully  copied  on  the  sculp- 
tures. Cavalry  formed  an  important  part  of 
the  Assyrian  army.  The  horsemen  carried 
the  bow  and  spear,  and  wore  coats  of  mail, 
high  greaves,  and  the  pointed  helmet.  Their 
horses  also  were  covered,  and  even,  it  would 
seem,  with  a kind  of  leather  armor,  from  the 
head  to  the  tail,  to  protect  them  from  the 
arrows  of  the  enemy.  It  consisted  of  sev- 
eral pieces  fastened  together  by  buttons  or 
loops.  Over  it  was  thrown  an  ornamented 
saddle-cloth,  or  a leopard’s  skin,  upon  which 
the  rider  sat.  Under  the  head  of  the  horse 
was  hung  a bell  (eomp.  Zech.  xiv,  20)  or  a 
tassel.  The  reins  appear  to  have  been  tight- 
ened round  the  neck  of  the  horse  by  a slid- 
ing button,  and  then  dropped  as  the  war- 


HORSE 


346 


HORSE 


Chariot-horse  of  Ramoses  III.  (From  the  Monuments  at 
Ipsambonl.) 

rior  was  engaged  in  fight.  Between  the  horse’s  ears 
was  an  arched  crest,  and  the  different  parts  of  the  har- 
ness were  richly  embroidered,  and  ornamented  with  ro- 
settes (Layard’s  Nin.  2d  ser.  p.  456).  See  Horseman. 


Aneient  Assyrian  Stable;  Groom  currying  a Horse. 


With  regard  to  the  trappings  and  management  of  the 
horse  among  the  Hebrews  and  adjoining  nations,  we 
have  little  information ; the  bridle  (resen)  was  placed 
over  the  horse’s  nose  (Isa.  xxx,  28 ),  and  a bit  or  curb 
(metheg)  is  also  noticed  (2  Kings  xix,28;  Psa.  xxxii,  9; 
Prov.  xxvi,  3 ; Isa.  xxxvii,  29  ; in  the  A.  V.  it  is  incor- 
rectly given  “ bridle,”  with  the  exception  of  Psa.  xxxii). 
The  harness  of  the  Assyrian  horses  was  profusely  deco- 
rated, the  bits  being  gilt  (1  Esdr.  iii,  6),  and  the  bridles 
adorned  with  tassels;  on  the  neck  was  a collar  termina- 


ting in  a bell,  as  described  by  Zechariah  (xiv,  20).  Sad- 
dles were  not  used  until  a late  period;  only  one  is  rep- 
resented on  the  Assyrian  sculptures  (Layard,  ii,  357). 
The  horses  were  not  shod,  and  therefore  hoofs  as  hard 
“as  flint”  (Isa.  v,  28)  were  regarded  as  a great  merit. 
The  chariot-horses  were  covered  with  embroidered  trap- 
pings— the  “precious  clothes”  manufactured  at  Dedan 
(Ezek.  xxvii,  20) : these  were  fastened  by  straps  and 
buckles,  and  to  this  perhaps  reference  is  made  in  Prov. 
xxx,  31,  in  the  term  zarzir,  “ one  girded  about  the  loins” 
(A.  Y.  “greyhound”).  Thus  adorned,  Mordecai  rode  in 
state  through  the  streets  of  Shushan  (Esth.  vi,  9).  White 
horses  were  more  particularly  appropriate  to  such  occa- 
sions as  being  significant  of  victory  (Rev.  vi,  2 ; xix,  11, 
14).  Horses  and  chariots  were  used  also  in  idolatrous 
processions,  as  noticed  in  regard  to  the  sun  (2  Kings 
xxiii,  11).  As  to  kinds  of  harness,  etc.,  by  means  of 
which  the  services  of  the  horse  were  anciently  made 
available  by  other  nations,  it  may  be  well  to  notice  that 
the  riding  bridle  was  long  a mere  slip-knot,  passed  round 
the  under  jaw  into  the  mouth,  thus  furnishing  only  one 
rein ; and  that  a rod  was  commonly  added  to  guide  the 
animal  with  more  facility.  The  bridle,  however,  and  the 
reins  of  chariot-horses  were,  at  a very  early  age,  exceed- 
ingly perfect,  as  the  monuments  of  Egypt,  Etruria,  and 
Greece  amply  prove.  Saddles  were  not  used,  the  rider 
sitting  on  the  bare  back,  or  using  a cloth  or  mat  girded 
on  the  ammal.  The  Romans,  no  doubt  copying  the  Per- 
sian Cataphractae.  first  used  pad  sad- 
dles, and  from  the  northern  nations 
adopted  stimuli  or  spurs.  Stirrups 
were  unknown.  Avicenna  first  men- 
tions the  rikittb , or  Arabian  stirrup, 
perhaps  the  most  ancient ; although 
in  the  tumuli  of  Central  Asia,  Tahtar 
horse  skeletons,  bridles,  and  stirrup 
saddles  have  been  found  along  with 
idols,  which  proves  the  tombs  to  be 
more  aneient  than  the  introduction 
of  Islam.  With  regard  to  horsc- 
J Vjffl  I shoeing,  bishop  Lowth  and  Bracy 

C V ~ Jv*  ) Clark  were  mistaken  in  believing 

f ■ that  the  Roman  horse  or  mule  shoe 

was  fastened  on  without  nails  driven 
through  the  horny  part  of  the  hoof, 
as  at  present.  A contrary  conclusion 
may  be  inferred  from  several  pas- 
sages in  the  poets ; and  the  figure  of 
a horse  in  the  Pompeii  battle  mosaic,  shod  in  the  same 
manner  as  is  now  the  practice, leaves  little  doubt  on  the 
question.  The  principal  use  of  horses  anciently  was  for 
the  chariot,  especially  in  war;  to  this  they  were  attached 
by  means  of  a pole  and  yoke  like  oxen,  a practice  which 
continued  down  to  the  times  of  the  Romans.  (See 


Aucient  Assyrian  Riding-horse,  with  Trappings. 


Bible  Animals,  p.  248  sq.)  See  Chariot  ; Bridle. 

It  appears  that  the  horse  was  derived  from  High 
Asia,  and  was  not  indigenous  in  Arabia,  Syria,  or  Egypt 
(Jardine’s  Naturalist's  Library , vol.  xii),  where  his  con- 
geners the  zebra,  quagga,  and  ass  are  still  found  in 
primitive  freedom,  although  the  horse  is  found  in  all 
parts  of  the  world— free,  it  is  true,  but  only  as  a wild  de- 
scendant of  a once  domesticated  stock.  (See  Schliebcn, 
Die  Pferde  des  A If  erf  hums,  Neuwied.  1867;  Abd  el- 
Kader,  Horses  of  the  Desei't,  trans.  by  Daumas,  London, 
1863.)  All  the  great  original  varieties  or  races  of  horses 
were  then  known  in  Western  Asia,  and  the  Hebrew 
prophets  themselves  have  not  imfrequently  distinguish- 
ed the  nations  they  had  in  view  by  means  of  the  pre- 
dominant colors  of  their  horses,  and  that  more  correctly 
than  commentators  have  surmised.  Taking  Bochart’s 
application  ( Ilieroz . i,  31  sq.)  of  the  Hebrew  names,  the 
bay  race,  CHSt,  adorn,  emphatically  belonged  to  Egypt 
and  Arabia  Felix;  the  white,  C“:"b,  lebonim,  to  the  re- 
gions above  the  Euxine  Sea,  Asia  Minor,  and  northern 
High  Asia;  the  dun,  or  cream-colored,  seruk- 

1dm,  to  the  Medes ; the  spotted  piebald,  or  skewbald. 


IIORSE-GATE 


347 


IIORSE-LEECII 


Q“,'ntai2,  beruddhn,  to  the  Macedonians,  the  Parthians, 
and  later  Tahtars;  and  the  black,  2“V.n’w,  shachorim , 
to  the  Romans;  but  the  chestnut,  amotz,  does  not 

belong  to  any  known  historical  race  (Zech.  i,  8;  vi,  2). 
See  Ass;  Mule;  Dromedary.  Bay  or  red  horses  oc- 
cur most  frequently  on  Egyptian  painted  monuments, 
this  being  the  primitive  color  of  the  Arabian  stock,  but 
white  horses  are  also  common,  and,  in  a few  instances, 
black— the  last  probably  only  to  relieve  the  paler  color 
of  the  one  beside  it  in  the  picture.  There  is  also,  we 
understand,  an  instance  of  a spotted  pair,  tending  to 
show  that  the  valley  of  the  Nile  was  originally  supplied 
with  horses  from  foreign  sources  and  distinct  regions,  as, 
indeed,  the  tribute  pictures  further  attest.  The  spotted, 
if  not  real,  but  painted  horses,  indicate  the  antiquity  of 
a practice  still  in  vogue;  for  staining  the  hair  of  riding 
animals  with  spots  of  various  colors,  and  dyeing  their 
limbs  and  tails  crimson,  is  a practice  of  common  occur- 
rence in  the  East.  These  colors  are  typical,  in  some 
passages  of  Scripture,  of  various  qualities,  e.  g.  the  white 
of  victory,  the  black  of  defeat  and  calamity,  the  red  of 
bloodshed,  etc.  (compare  Rev,  vi). — Kitto ; Smith.  See 
COLOR. 

Horse-Gate  (C‘,C!l3n  sha'ar  has-susim', 

Gate  of  the  horses;  Sept.  —u\i]  'imriov  or  i 7T7tj  to  n,Yulg. 
porta  equoruni),  a gate  in  the  lirst  or  old  wall  of  Jerusa- 
lem, at  the  west  end  of  the  bridge  leading  from  Zion  to 
the  Temple  (Neh.  iii,  28 ; Jer.  xxxi,40),  perhaps  so  call- 
ed as  being  that  by  which  the  “ horses  of  the  sun”  (2 
Kings  xxiii,  11)  were  led  by  the  idolaters  into  the  sa- 
cred inclosure  (2  Chron.  xxiii,  15;  comp.  2 Kings  xi,  10). 
(Sec  Strong’s  Harmony  of  the  Gospels,  Append,  i,  p.  14.) 
Barclay,  however,  thinks  of  a position  near  the  Hippo- 
drome (which,  on  the  contrary,  was  a later  edifice),  at 
the  S.E.  corner  of  the  Temple  wall  ( City  of  the  Great 
King,  p.  152).  See  Jerusalem. 

Horse-leech  alukah' ; Sept,  i)  (3cs\\a, 

Vulg.  sanguisuga , A.  Y.  some  eds.  as  two  words,  “horse 
leech”)  occurs  once  only, viz.  Prov.xxx,  15, “The  horse- 
leech hath  two  daughters,  crying,  Give,  give.”  Although 
the  Hebrew  word  is  translated  leech  in  nearly  all  the 
versions,  there  has  been  much  dispute  whether  that  is 
its  proper  meaning.  Against  the  received  translation , it 
has  been  urged  that,  upon  an  examination  of  the  con- 
text in  which  it  occurs,  the  introduction  of  the  leech 
seems  strange;  that  it  is  impossible  to  understand  what 
is  meant  by  its  “ two  daughters,”  or  three,  as  the  Septu- 
agint,  Syriac,  and  Arabic  versions  assign  to  it ; and  that, 
instead  of  the  incessant  craving  apparently  attributed 
to  it,  the  leech  drops  off  when  filled.  In  order  to  evade 
these  difficulties,  it  has  been  attempted,  but  in  vain,  to 
connect  the  passage  either  with  the  preceding  or  subse- 
quent verse.  It  has  also  been  attempted  to  give  a dif- 
ferent sense  to  the  Hebrew  word.  But  as  it  occurs  no- 
M'hcre  besides  in  Scripture,  and  as  the  root  from  which 
it  woidd  seem  to  be  derived  is  never  used  as  a verb,  no 
assistance  can  be  obtained  from  the  Scriptures  them- 
selves in  this  investigation.  Recourse  is  therefore  had 
to  the  Arabic.  The  following  is  the  line  of  criticism 
pursued  by  the  learned  Bochart  ( Hierozoicon , cd.  Rosen- 
mtiller,  iii,  785,  etc.).  The  Arabic  word  for  leech  is  al a- 
kah,  which  is  derived  from  a verb  signifying  to  hang  or 
to  adhere  to.  But  the  Hebrew  word,  alukah,  he  would 
derive  from  another  Arabic  root,  aluk,  which  means 
“fate,  heavy  misfortune,  or  impending  calamity and 
hence  he  infers  that  alukah  properly  means  destiny,  and 
particularly  the  necessity  of  dying  which  attaches  to  ev- 
ery man  by  the  decree  of  God.  He  urges  that  it  is  not 
strange  that  offspring  should  be  ascribed  to  this  divine 
appointment,  since,  in  Prov.  xxvii,  1,  offspring  is  attrib- 
uted to  time,  a da)’ — “Thou  knowest  not  what  a day 
may  bring  forth''  Now  the  Hebrews  call  events  “ the 
children  of  time.”  We  also  speak  of  “ the  womb  of 
time.”  He  cites  Prov.  xxvii,  20,  as  a parallel  passage : 
“ Hell  ( skeol ) and  the  grave  are  never  full.”  Hence  he 


supposes  that  sheol  and  the  grave  are  the  turo  daughters 
of  Alukah  or  Destiny;  each  cries  “give”  at  the  same 
moment— the  former  asks  for  the  soul,  and  the  latter  for 
the  body  of  man  in  death;  both  are  insatiable, for  both 
involve  all  mankind  in  one  common  ruin.  lie  further 
thinks  that  both  these  arc  called  daughters,  because 
each  of  the  words  is  of  the  feminine,  or,  at  most,  of  the 
common  gender;  and  in  the  IGtli  verse,  the  grave  (she- 
ol) is  specified  as  one  of  the  “things  that  are  never  sat- 
isfied.” In  further  confirmation  of  this  view’,  Bochart 
cites  rabbinical  waiters,  wrho  state  that  by  the  word 
alukah,  which  occurs  in  the  Chaldee  paraphrase  on  the 
Psalms,  they  understand  destiny  to  be  signified;  and 
also  remark  that  it  has  two  daughters — Eden  and  Ge- 
henna, Paradise  and  Hell — the  former  of  whom  never 
has  enough  of  the  souls  of  the  righteous,  the  latter  of 
the  souls  of  the  wicked.  (Sec  also  Alb.  Scliultens,  Com- 
ment. ad  loe.). 

In  behalf  if  the  received  translation,  it  is  urged  that  it 
is  scarcely  credible  that  all  the  ancient  translators  should 
have  confounded  alukah  with  alukah  ; that  it  is  pecul- 
iarly unlikely  that  this  should  have  been  the  case  with 
the  Septnagint  translator  of  the  book  of  Proverbs,  be- 
cause it  is  believed  that  “this  ranks  next  to  the  trans- 
lation of  the  Pentateuch  for  ability  and  fidelity  of  exe- 
cution;” and  that  the  author  of  it  must  have  been  well 
skilled  in  the  two  languages  (Horne's  Introduction,  ii,  13, 
ed.  1828).  It  is  further  pleaded  that  the  application  of 
Arabic  analogies  to  Hebrew  words  is  not  decisive ; and 
finally,  that  the  theory  proposed  by  Bochart  is  not  es- 
sential to  the  elucidation  of  the  passage.  In  the  pre- 
ceding verse  the  writer  (not  Solomon — see  ver.  1)  speaks 
of  “a  generation,  .whose  teeth  are  as  swords,  and  their 
jaw-teeth  as  knives  to  devour  the  poor  from  off  the 
earth,  and  the  needy  from  among  men and  then,  after 
the  abrupt  and  picturesque  style  of  the  East,  especially 
in  their  proverbs,  which  is  nowhere  more  vividly  exem- 
plified than  in  this  whole  chapter,  the  leech  is  intro- 
duced as  an  illustration  of  the  covetousness  of  such  per- 
sons, and  of  the  two  distinguishing  vices  of  which  it  is 
the  parent,  avarice  and  cruelty.  May  not  also  the  “ two 
daughters  of  the  leech,  crying.  Give,  give,”  be  a ligurar 
tive  description  of  the  two  lips  of  the  creature  (for  these 
it  has,  and  perfectly  formed),  which  are  a part  of  its 
very  complicated  mouth?  It  certainly  is  agreeable  to 
the  Hebrew  style  to  call  the  offspring  of  inanimate 
things  daughters,  for  so  branches  are  called  daughters 
of  trees  (Gen.  xlix,  22,  margin).  A similar  use  of  the 
word  is  found  in  Eccles.  xii,4,  “All  the  daughters  of  mu- 
sic shall  be  brought  low,”  meaning  the  lips,  front  teeth, 
and  other  parts  of  the  mouth.  It  is  well  remarked  by 
Prof.  Paxton  that  “ this  figurative  application  of  the 
entire  genus  is  sufficient  to  justify  the  interpretation. 
The  leech,  as  a symbol  in  use  among  rulers  of  every 
class  and  in  all  ages,  for  avarice,  rapine,  plunder,  rapaci- 
ty, and  even  assiduity,  is  too  well  known  to  need  illus- 
tration” (see  Plautus,  Epidic.  art.  2;  Cicero,  ad  Attic. ; 
Horace,  A rs.  roet.  476 ; Theocritus,  Pharmaceut. ; etc.). 
In  confirmation  of  this  view,  Prof.  Stuart  remarks  (Com- 
ment. ad  loe.),  “The  Arabians  have  the  same  word, and 
in  the  Camus,  their  standard  dictionary,  it  is  defined  by 
another  Arabic  word,  viz.  Ghoul.  This  latter  the  Ca- 
mfts  again  defines  as  meaning,  (1)  Calamity,  (2)  1-orest- 
dtvil,  (3)  .1  deemon  man-eating  and  insatiable.  The  Ara- 
bians, down  to  the  present  hour,  maintain  that  it  is  of- 
ten met  with  in  the  forests  of  Arabia,  and  they  stand 
in  great  terror  of  it  when  entering  a thick  woods.  (See 
Lane’s  Modern  Egyptians,  i,  344.)  The  Syrians  had  a 
like  superstition,  but,  like  the  Hebrews,  they  more  gen- 
erally named  the  sprite  lilith.  In  Isa.  xxxiv.  14,  this 
last  word  occurs  (Autli.  Yersion  screech-owl),  and  it  is 
amply  and  finely  illustrated  by  Gesenius  (Comment,  ad 
loc.).  In  like  manner,  Western  superstition  is  full  of 
spokes,  hobgoblins,  elves,  imps,  and  vampires;  all.  espe- 
cially the  last  of  which,  are  essentially  insatiable,  blood- 
sucking spectres.”  (See  also  Gesenius,  Thesaur.  Heb.  p. 
1038.)— Kitto.  See  Svectke. 


HORSEMAN 


'348 


HORSEMAN 


There  is,  then,  little  doubt  that  alukah  denotes  some 
species  of  leech,  or,  rather,  is  the  generic  term  for  any 
blood-sucking  annelid,  such  as  IJirudo  (the  medicinal 
leech),  Hcemopis  (the  horse-leech),  Limnatis,  Trochetia, 
and  A ulastoma,  if  all  these  genera  are  found  in  the 
marshes  and  pools  of  the  Bible-lands.  The  leech  or 
blood-sucker  belongs  to  the  genus  vermes,  order  intesti- 
nata,  Linn.  It  is  viviparous,  brings  forth  only  one.  off- 
spring at  a time,  and  the  genus  contains  many  species. 
“ The  ^orse-leech”  is  properly  a species  of  leech  discard- 
ed for  medical  purposes  on  account  of  the  coarseness  of 
its  bite.  There  is  no  ground  for  the  distinction  of  spe- 
cies made  in  the  English  Bible.  The  valuable  use  of 
the  leech  ( Hirudo ) in  medicine,  though  undoubtedly 
known  to  Pliny  and  the  later  Roman  writers,  was  in  all 
probability  unknown  to  the  ancient  Orientals ; still  they 
were  doubtless  acquainted  with  the  fact  that  leeches  of 
the  above-named  genus  would  attach  themselves  to  the 
skin  of  persons  going  barefoot  in  ponds ; and  they  also 
were  probably  cognizant  of  the  propensity  horse-leeches 
(Hcemopis)  have  of  entering  the  mouth  and  nostrils  of 
cattle,  as  they  drink  from  the  waters  frequented  by  these 
pests,  which  are  common  enough  in  Palestine  and  Syria. 
The  use  which,  from  its  thirst  for  blood,  we  make  of  the 
leech,  being  unknown  to  the  ancient  Orientals,  as  it  is 
unknown  in  the  East  at  the  present  day,  it  is  there 
spoken  of  with  feelings  of  horror  and  aversion,  particu- 
larly as  it  causes  the  destruction  of  valuable  animals  by 
fastening  under  their  tongues  when  they  come  to  drink. 
The  lake  called  Birket  er-Ilam,  the  ancient  Phiala, 
about  three  hours  from  Banias,  is  said  to  be  so  crowded 
with  leeches  that  a'  man  can  gather  6000  or  even  8000 
in  a day,  while  the  fountain  at  Banias  is  not  infested 
by  a single  leech. — Kitto ; Smith ; Bastow. 

The  mechanism  by  which  the  leech  is  enabled  to 
gratify  its  greedy  thirst  for  blood  is  highly  curious. 

The  throat  is  spacious, 
and  capable  of  being 
everted  to  a great  de- 
gree. The  front  border 
of  the  mouth  is  enlarged 
so  as  to  form  a sort  of 
upper  lip,  and  this  com- 
bines with  the  wrinkled 
muscular  margin  of  the 
lower  and  lateral  por- 
tions to  form  the  suck- 
Mouth  and  Throat  of  the  Leech.  er  -\ye  may  even  slit 
opened  and  magnified.  <,Jwn  the  ventral  mar- 
gin of  the  sucker,  exposing  the  whole  throat.  Then, 
the  edges  being  folded  back,  we  see  implanted  in  the 
walls  on  the  dorsal  regions  of  the  cavity  three  white 
eminences  of  a cartilaginous  texture,  which  rise  to  a 
sharp  crescentic  edge ; they  form  a triangular,  or,  rath- 
er, a triradiate  figure,  and  by  a peculiar  saw-like  motion 
so  abrade  the  surface  as  to  cause  a flow  of  blood,  which 
is  greatly  assisted  by  the  contraction  of  the  edges  form- 
ing a vacuum  like  a cupping-glass. — Fairbairn,  s.  v. 

Horseman  (properly  and  usually  ^23.  ba'al 
parash',  master  of  a horse).  Our  translation  would 
make  it  appear  that  a force  of  cavalry  accompanied 
Pharaoh  in  his  pursuit — “ his  horsemen”  (Exod.  xiv,  9, 
etc.).  It  is,  however,  a fact  not  a little  remarkable,  that 
in  the  copious  delineations  of  battle-scenes  which  occur 
in  the  monuments,  and  which  must  have  been  coeval 
with  these  events,  in  which,  moreover,  everything  that 
could  tend  to  aggrandize  the  power  or  flatter  the  pride 
of  Egypt  would  be  introduced,  there  never  occurs  any 
representation  of  Egyptian  cavalry.  The  armies  are 
always  composed  of  troops  of  infantry  armed  with  the 
bow  and  spear,  and  of  ranks  of  chariots  drawn  by  two 
horses.  Both  Diodorus  and  Herodotus  attribute  caval- 
ry to  the  early  Pharaohs;  and  some  eminent  antiqua- 
rians, as  Sir  Gardiner  Wilkinson,  endeavor  to  account 
for  the  absence  of  such  a force  in  the  pictorial  represen- 
tations consistently  with  its  existence.  But  professor 


Hengstenberg  has  maintained,  and  not  without  some 
degree  of  probability,  that  the  word  “ horsemen”  of  the 
above  passage  should  rather  be  rendered  “chariot- 
riders.”  We  quote  his  words:  “It  is  accordingly  cer- 
tain that  the  cavalry,  in  the  more  ancient  period  of  the 
Pharaohs,  was  bnt  little  relied  on.  The  question  now 
is,  what  relation  the  declarations  of  the  passage  before 
us  bear  to  this  result.  Were  the  common  view,  accord- 
ing to  which  riding  on  horses  is  superadded  with  equal 
prominence  to  the  chariot  of  war,  in  our  passage,  the 
right  one,  there  might  arise  strong  suspicion  against 
the  credibility  of  the  narrative.  But  a more  accurate 
examination  shows  that  the  author  does  not  mention 
Egyptian  cavalry  at  all ; that,  according  to  him,  the 
Egyptian  army  is  composed  only  of  chariots  of  war,  and 


that  he  therefore  agrees  in  a wonderful  manner  with 
the  native  Egyptian  monuments.  And  this  agreement 
is  the  more  minute,  since  the  second  division  of  the 
army  represented  upon  them,  the  infantry,  could  not,  in 
the  circumstances  of  our  narrative,  take  part  in  the  pur- 
suit. The  first  and  principal  passage  concerning  the 
constituent  parts  of  the  Egyptian  army  which  pursued 
the  Israelites  is  that  in  Exod.  xiv,  6,  7 : ‘And  he  made 
ready  his  chariot,  and  took  his  people  with  him;  and 
he  took  six  hundred  chosen  chariots,  and  all  the  char- 
iots of  Egypt,  and  chamot-warriors  upon  all  of  them.’ 
Here  Pharaoh’s  preparation  for  war  is  fully  described. 
It  consists,  first,  of  chariots,  and,  secondly,  of  chariot- 
warriors.  Cavalry  are  no  more  mentioned  than  infan- 
try. This  passage,  which  is  so  plain,  explains  the  sec- 
ond one  (ver.  9),  where  the  arrival  of  this  same  army  in 
sight  of  the  Israelites  is  plainly  and  graphically  de- 
scribed, in  order  to  place  distinctly  before  the  reader 
the  impression  which  the  view  made  upon  the  Israel- 
ites: ‘And  the  Egyptians  followed  them  and  overtook 
them,  where  they  wrere  encamped  by  the  sea,  all  the 
chariot-horses  of  Pharaoh,  and  his  riders,  and  his  host’  ” 
(Egypt  and  Moses,  ch.  iv). — Fairbairn,  s.  v.  See  Char- 
iot. 

In  the  same  connection  we  may  remark  that,  although 
the  Egyptian  warriors  usually  rode  two  in  a chariot 
only,  yet  it  appears,  from  the  use  of  the  peculiar  term 
skalish'  (lit.  third,  A.Y.  “captain”),  applied  to 


Aucieut  Assyrian  Horsemau,  ready  to  mount. 


HORSLEY 


349 


IIORSTIUS 


the  charioteers  destroyed  in  the  Red  Sea  (Exod.  xv,  4), 
and  to  other  officers  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  8,  etc.),  that  occa- 
sionally at  least  three  persons  were  accustomed  to  ride 
together  in  battle ; and  this  is  confirmed  by  the  fact 
that  in  some  of  the  delineations  on  the  Egyptian  mon- 
uments we  find  two  persons  represented  as  principals  iii 
a war-car,  while  a third  manages  the  reins.  See  Cap- 
tain. 

Among  the  Assyrians,  on  the  other  hand,  single  riders 
on  horseback  wore  not  uncommon,  although  with  them, 
too,  the  cavalry  arm  of  the  military  sendee  consisted 
chiefly  of  chariots.  See  Army. 

Horsley,  Samuel,  one  of  the  most  distinguished 
divines  ever  produced  by  the  Church  of  England,  was 
born  in  London,  October,  1733.  He  was  the  son  of  the 
Reverend  John  Horsley  (whose  father  was  originally 
a Nonconformist),  for  many  years  the  clerk  in  orders 
at  St.  Martin’s-in-the-Fields,  and  who  held  two  recto- 
ries, Thorley  in  Hertfordshire,  and  Newington  Butts  in 
Surrey.  Samuel  Horsley  was  educated  at  Westminster 
School  and  Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge,  and  had  the  rec- 
tory of  Newington,  which  his  father  resigned  to  him 
soon  after  he  had  taken  orders  in  1750.  His  more 
public  career  may  be  said  to  have  commenced  in  1767, 
when  he  was  elected  a fellow  of  the  Royal  Society,  of 
which  body  he  became  secretary  in  1773.  His  earliest 
publications  were  tracts  on  scientific  subjects,  but  in 
1776  he  projected  a complete  and  uniform  edition  of  the 
philosophical  works  of  Sir  Isaac  Newton.  This  design 
was  not  accomplished  till  1785,  when  the  fifth  and  last 
of  the  five  quarto  volumes  made  its  appearance.  In  the 
earlier  years  of  his  public  life  he  found  patrons  in  the 
earl  of  Aylesford,  and  in  Lowth,  bishop  of  London ; but 
we  pass  over  the  presentations  to  his  various  livings, 
and  the  dispensations  which  the  number  of  his  minor 
preferments  rendered  necessary.  In  1781  he  was  ap- 
pointed archdeacon  of  St.  Albans.  It  was  a little  before 
the  date  last  named  that  he  first  appeared  in  the  field  of 
theological  controversy,  in  which,  from  the  great  extent 
of  his  knowledge  and  from  the  vigor  of  his  intellect,  he 
soon  showed  himself  a very  powerful  combatant.  His 
attacks  were  chiefly  directed  against  Dr.  Joseph  Priest- 
ley, who  in  a series  of  publications  defended  with  great 
subtilty  and  skill  the  doctrines  of  philosophical  neces- 
sity, materialism,  and  Unitarianism.  Dr.  Horsley  began 
his  attack  in  1778  on  the  question  of  Man's  Free  Agency; 
it  was  continued  in  a Charge  delivered  in  1783  to  the 
clergy  of  his  archdeaconry,  in  which  he  animadverted  on 
many  parts  of  Dr.  Priestley’s  History  of  the  Corruptions 
of  Christianity.  This  charge  produced  a reply  from  Dr. 
Priestley,  which  led  to  a rejoinder  from  Dr.  Horsley  in 
Seventeen  Letters  to  Dr.  Priestley , a masterly  defence  of 
the  orthodox  faith,  and  the  secure  foundation  of  a last- 
ing theological  reputation.  These  writings  are  believed 
to  have  stopped  the  progress,  for  that  age,  of  Socinian- 


ism  in  England.  The  tide  of  preferment  now  began  to 
flow  in  upon  him.  Thurlow,  who  was  then  chancellor, 
presented  him  with  a prebcndal  stall  in  the  church  of 
Gloucester,  observing,  as  it  is  said,  that  “ those  who  de- 
fended the  Church  ought  to  be  supported  by  the  Church 
and  in  1788  he  was  made  bishop  of  St.  David’s.  In  Par- 
liament he  distinguished  himself  by  the  hearty  support 
which  he  gave  to  the  measures  of  Pitt’s  administration. 
His  political  conduct  gained  him  the  favor  of  the  court: 
in  1793  he  was  translated  to  Rochester,  and  in  1802  to 
St.  Asaph.  He  died  October  4, 1806.  Dr.  Horsley  has 
been,  not  inaptly,  described  as  the  last  of  the  race  of 
episcopal  giants  of  the  Warburtonian  school.  He  was  a 
man  of  an  original  and  powerful  mind,  of  very  extensive 
learning,  and  profoundly  versed  in  the  subject  of  ecclesi- 
astical history,  of  which  he  gave  ample  evidence  in  his 
controversy  with  Dr.  Priestley,  while  archdeacon  of  St. 
Albans.  Even  Gibbon  says,  “ 11  is  spear  pierced  the  So- 
cinian’s  shield.”  His  sermons  and  critical  disquisitions 
frequently  display  a rich  fund  of  theological  acumen, 
and  of  successful  illustration  of  the  sacred  writings.  Be- 
sides the  works  named  above,  his  theological  writings 
include  Critical  Disquisitions  on  Isaiah  xviii  (Loud.  1799, 
4to): — The  Book  of  Psalms,  translated,  with  Fobs  (3d 
edit.  London,  1833,  8yo) : — llosea,  translated,  triih  Xotes 
(2d  edit.  Lond.  1804)  : — Biblical  Criticism  on  the  O.  Test. 
(2d  edit.  Lond.  1844,  2 vols.  8vo) : — -Sermons  on  the  Res- 
urrection (3d  edit.  Lond.  1822, 8vo)  ; all  which,  with  his 
tracts  in  the  Priestley  controversy,  are  to  be  found  in 
his  Collected  HorAs  (Lond.  1845,6  vols.  8vo).  See  Eng- 
lish  Cyclopaedia;  Quarterly  Bcricu'  (Lond.),  vols.  iii  and 
ix;  Edinburgh  Review,  vol.  xvii ; Allihone,  Diet,  of  A it- 
thors,  i,  894;  Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliograph ica,  i,  1548; 
Chalmers,  Biog.  Dictionary ; Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  171 
sq. ; Skeats,  Hist,  of  the  Free  Churches  of  England,  p.  513 
sq. ; Donaldson,  / list,  of  Christ.  Lit.  and  Doctrines,  i,  72 ; 
Ch.  Hist,  of  the  13  th  Century , p.445 ; llagenbacli,  Ilist.  of 
Doctrines,  ii,  418, 421 ; Sliedd,  History  of  Doctrines . i,  57, 
386;  General  Repository,  i,  22,  229;  ii,  7,  257 ; iii,  13, 
250;  Quarterly  Review,  iii,  398;  ix,  £0;  Edinburgh  Re- 
view, xvii,  455 ; Monthly  Review,  lxxxiv,  82 ; A ualytical 
Magazine,  iv,  268. 

Horstius,  Jacob  Merlo,  a Roman  Catholic  theo- 
logian, was  bom  towards  the  close  of  the  16th  century 
at  Horst,  Holland  (whence  his  name).  He  was  priest 
at  the  Lyskirchen  in  Cologne,  where  he  died  in  1644. 
Horstius  is  the  author  of  several  ascetical  works.  He 
wrote  Enchiridion  tjficii  divini;  Paradisus  animat  Chns- 
tianee  (transl.  into  French  by  Nicolaus  Fontane,  under 
the  title  Heures  Chreticnnes,  tirees  de  VEcnture  et  dcs 
saints  Peres ) : — Septem  tubee  orbis  Christiani  (a  compila- 
tion from  the  writings  of  the  fathers,  and  intended  for 
young  Roman  Cathoiic  priests).  He  also  edited  a com- 
mentary of  Estius  on  the  Pauline  Letters ; the  works  of 
St. Bernard  (2  vols.),  and  of  Thomas  iv  Kempis. — Wetzer 


HORWITZ 


HORT  350 


und  Welte,  Kircken-Lexikon,  xii,  503 ; Tkeol.  Univ.  Lex. 
(Elberf.  1868),  ii,  369. 

Hort,  Josiaii,  an  Anglican  prelate,  was  born  towards 
the  close  of  the  17th  century,  and  educated  at  a Dissent- 
ing school  together  with  Dr.  Isaac  Watts.  In  1695  he 
became  chaplain  to  John  Hampden,  Esq.,  M.P.,  and  af- 
terwards settled  as  Dissenting  minister  at  Marshfield. 
About  1708  he  conformed,  and  became  a minister  of  the 
Church  of  England.  He  now  rose  quickly  to  distin- 
guished positions  in  the  Chnrcli.  In  1721  he  was  con- 
secrated bishop  of  Ferns  and  Leighlin  in  Ireland,  trans- 
lated in  1727  to  Kilmore  and  Ardagh,  and  was  advanced 
to  the  archbishopric  of  Tuam  in  1742,  with  the  united 
bishopric  of  Enaghdoen,  and  with  permission  • to  hold 
also  his  former  bishopric  of  Ardagh.  He  died  Dec.  14, 
1751.  Bishop  Hort  published,  besides,  several  collections 
of  Sermons  (1708-9, 1738, 1757) : — Instrutions  to  the  Cler- 
gy of  Tuam  (1742,  8vo;  1768,  8vo;  also  in  Clergyman's 
Instructor).  See  I look,  Ace/.  Biog.  vi,  184  sq. ; AJlibone, 
Dictionary  o f A uthors,  i,  895. 

Hortig,  Karl  Anton,  a distinguished  German  Ro- 
man Catholic  (also  known  by  the  name  given  him  by 
his  order,  Johann  Nepomuck),  was  born  at  Pleistein, 
Bavaria,  in  1774,  and  was  educated  at  the  University 
of  Ingolstadt.  He  entered  the  order  of  the  Benedictines 
in  1794,  and  in  1799  became  chaplain  of  a nunnery  at 
Noun  berg.  In  1802  he  was  appointed  professor  of  logic 
and  metaphysics  at  the  school  of  the  Andech  Cloister, 
and  promoted,  after  filling  various  minor  positions,  to  a 
professorship  of  theology  at  Landshut  in  1821.  In  1826 
lie  removed  with  the  university  to  Munich,  where  he 
received  many  honors,  and  died  Feb.  27,  1847.  His 
theological  works  are,  Predigten  f.  alle  Festtage  (Landsh. 
1821 ; 3d  edit.  1832) : — Predigten  ii.  d.  sontdgigen  Evan- 
gel. (ibid.  1827 ; 2d  ed.  1832)  i—JIundb.  d.  christl,  Kirch- 
engesch.  (2  vols.  1826-28,  of  which  the  second  part  of 
vol.  ii  was  completed  by  the  celebrated  Dbllinger). — 
Reah-EnryJclop.fi d.  kathol.  Deutschl.  xii,  1031  sq.;  Pierer, 
Univ.  Lex.  viii,  550. 

Horton,  Thomas,  D.D.,  an  English  divine,  was  bom 
at  London,  and  was  educated  at  Emmanuel  College, 
Cambridge,  of  which  he  became  fellow.  In  1637  he  was 
university  preacher,  and  in  July  of  this  year  he  was 
chosen  master  of  Queen’s  College,  Cambridge,  and  min- 
ister of  St.  Mary  Colechurch,  London.  In  1641  he  be- 
came professor  of  divinity  at  Gresham  College,  and  in 
1647  preacher  of  Gray’s  Inn,  and  vice-chancellor  of  Cam- 
bridge in  1650.  He  was  ejected  for  nonconformity  in  1 662, 
but  he  afterwards  conformed,  and  was  appointed  vicar 
of  Great  St.  Helen’s,  London,  in  1666.  He  died  in  1673. 
He  was  a pious  and  learned  man,  especially  skilled  in 
the  Oriental  languages.  Of  his  works,  which  are  very 
scarce,  the  principal  are  Sermon  (I’sa.  lxxxvii,  4-6), 
Zion's  Birth-register  unfolded  (Lond.  1656, 4to)  : — Forty- 
six  Sermons  on  the  eighth  Chapter  of  the  Epistle  to  the 
Romans  (Lond.  1674,  fol.) : — Choice  and  practical  Expo- 
sitions on  four  select  Psalms  (iv,  xlii,  lix,  lxiii)  (London, 
1675,  fol.): — One  hundred  select  Sermons  upon  several 
Texts ; jify  upon  the  Old  Testament  and  fifty  on  the  New : 
left  perfected  in  the  press  under  his  own  hands  (Lond. 
1679,  fol.). — Stoughton  (John),  Eccles.  Hist,  of  England 
(London,  1870,  2 vols.  8vo),  i,  156, 288  ; Darling,  Cyclop. 
B ibliographica , i,  1531 ; llook, Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  185  si}.; 
Wood,  A then.  Oxon.  ii  (see  Index)  ; Allibone,  Dictionary 
of  A uthors,  i,  895. 

Horus  ('Qnoc),  the  Egyptian  god  of  the  sun,  gen- 
erally written  in  hieroglyphics  by  the  sparrow-hawk, 
and  represented  with  a bird’s  beak.  The  old  derivation 
from  the  Hebrew  our,  light,  is  now  recognised  as  incor- 
rect. As  an  Egyptian  divinity  he  is  mentioned  generally 
as  the  son  of  Isis  and  Osiris,  and  brother  of  Bubastis,  the 
Egyptian  Diana.  Various  esoteric  explanations  have 
been  given  of  him,  e.  g.  that  “ he  represents  the  Nile, 
as  Typhon  the  desert,  the  fruitful  air  or  dew  which  re- 
vives the  earth,  the  moon,  the  sun  in  relation  to  the 
changes  of  the  year,  or  the  god  who  presided  over  the 


course  of  the  sun.”  He  also  represented  three  planets— 
Jupiter  (Harapslita),  Saturn  (Harka),  and  Mars  (Har- 
teshr).  The  sparrow-liawk  was  sacred  to  him ; so  were 
lions,  which  were  placed  at  the  side  of  his  throne.  There 
was  a festival  to  celebrate  his  eyes  on  the  30th  Epiplii, 
when  the  sun  and  moon,  which  they  represented,  were 
on  the  same  right  line  with  the  earth.  A movable  feast, 
that  of  his  coronation,  is  supposed  to  have  been  selected 
for  the  coronations  of  the  kings  of  Egypt,  who  are  de- 
scribed as  sitting  upon  his  throne.  When  adult,  he  is 
generally  represented  hawk-headed;  as  a child,  he  is- 
seen  carried  in  his  mother’s  arms,  wearing  th epshent  or 
atf  and  seated  on  a lotus-flower  with  his  finger  on  his 
lips.  He  had  an  especial  local  worship  at  Edfou  or  Hut, 
the  ancient  Apollinopolis  Magna,  where  he  was  identi- 
fied with  Ra,  or  the  Sun.  There  were  also  books  of  Ho- 
rus and  Isis,  probably  referring  to  his  legend  (Lucian, 
De  Somn.  sive  Gall.  s.  183).  The  magnet  was  called  his 
bone ; he  was  of  fair  complexion  (Chambers,  Cyclop),  v, 
430  sq.).  He  was  also  worshipped  very  extensively  in 
Greece,  and  later  at  Rome,  in  a somewhat  modified  form. 
In  Grecian  mythology  he  was  compared  with  Apollo,  and 
identified  with  Harpocrates,  the  last  son  of  Osiris  ( Plut. 
De  Is.  et  Os.  19).  See  Horapollo.  They  were  both 
represented  as  youths,  and  with  the  same  attributes  and 
symbols  (Artemid.  Oneir.  ii,.36;  Macrobius,  Sat.  i,  23; 
Porphyry  ap.  Euseb.  Prcep.  Evang.  v,  10 ; Iamblichus,  De 
Myster.  vii,  2).  In  the  period  of  the  worship  of  this 
god  at  Rome  he  seems  to  have  been  regarded  as  the 
god  of  quiet  life  and  silence  (Varro,  De  L.  L.  iv,  17,  Bip. ; 
Ovid,  Met.  ix,  691 ; Ansonius,  Epist.  ad  Paul,  xxv,  27), 
which  was  due,  no  doubt,  to  the  belief  that  he  was  born 


A finely-executed  brouze  figure  of  Har-Oeri,  sou  of  Osi- 
ris and  Athor,  who  is  frequently  called  the  elder  Horus. 
At  Ombos  he  is  styled  “Resident  in  the  eyes  of  light, 
Lord  of  Ombos,  the  great  God,  Lord  of  the  Heavens, 
Lord  of  Eelak,  Philae,”  etc!,  and  is  evidently  connected 
with  the  Sun.  From  Memphis.  (From  Abbott’s  Collec- 
tion of  Egyptian  Antiquities.) 

with  his  finger  in  his  mouth,  as  indicative  of  secrecy 
and  mystery.  Horus  acts  also  a prominent  part  in  the 
mystic  wrorks  attributed  to  Hermes  Trismegistus  (q.  v.). 
See  Smith,  Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Roman  Antiquities, 
ii,  526;  Birch,  Gall,  of  Antiq.  p.  35;  Wilkinson,  Mann, 
and  Gust,  iv,  395;  Jablonski,  Panth.  ii,  4,  p.  222;  Cham- 
pollion,  Panth.  Eg. ; Hincks,  Dublin  Univ.  Mag.  xxviii, 
187 ; Biickh,  Manetho,  p.  G1 ; Bunsen,  A egyptens  Stelle  in 
d.  Weltr/esch.  i,  505  sq.  See  Valentinian  Theology. 
(J.I1.W.) 

Horwitz,  a Jewish  family,  several  members  of 
wrhich  have  become  distinguished  as  waiters.  The  most 
renowned  are : 

1.  Horwitz  ( Sdbbatai-Schefel ),  Ha-Levi  ben-Aki- 
ba,  head  of  the  synagogue  of  Prague  at  the  beginning 
of  the  16th  century'.  He  vrrote  ‘j'lS’in  nbs  (Kerez, 
1793,  4to),  or  Commentary7  on  Sam.  Galicho’s 
ONnET:— 1 *n|il  “’PSd  r^lT2  (Prague,! 616, 4to),  a di- 
alogue expounding  the  Cabalistic  doctrine  of  the  soul : 
— b'J  I'gia  (Zolkiew,  1780,  4to),  a Cabalistic  work  di- 


HOSAII 


351 


IIOSANNA 


viclecl  into  two  parts,  making  a key  to  the  Jezirah,  Zo- 
har,  and  other  Cabalistic  books. 

2.  Horwitz,  Abraham,  son  of  the  preceding,  and 

known  also  under  the  name  of  Schefteles,  was  horn  at 
Prague  in  the  first  half  of  the  16th  century.  He  wrote 
the  following  Hebrew  works:  trH2X  rv^2,  On  Re - 
pentance  and  Confession  (Cracow,  1602,  and  often) : — 
Dl"l‘*i2xb  ‘iDn,  a complete  commentary  on  Maimoni- 
des’s  introd.  to  the  book  Abotli  of  the  Talmud  (Cracow, 
1577,  and  often) : — (Prague,  1615,  4to),  con- 
taining moral  instructions,  especially  intended  for  his 
own  children: — <1-^2  (Amst.  1757,  4to),  contain- 

ing remarks  on  the  blessings  of  the  Jews  and  their  or- 
igin. 

3.  Horwitz,  Isaiah,  son  of  the  foregoing,  bom  at 
Prague  about  1550,  became  the  most  distinguished  of 
this  family.  lie  was  Rabbi  first  at  Frankfort,  then  at 
Posen,  at  Cracow,  and  at  Prague.  In  1622  he  went  to 
Jerusalem.  Poverty  induced  him  to  leave  that  city, 
and  he  retired  to  Tiberias,  where  he  died  in  1629.  He 
wrote  IV'pSn  JVirwb  pad  (Amsterd.  1649,  fol.;  several 
times  reprinted),  a work  which  enjoys  great  reputation 
among  the  Jews.  It  is  divided  into  two  parts:  the 
first  treats  of  the  existence  of  God,  the  law,  the  privi- 
leges of  the  people  of  Israel,  the  attributes  of  God,  the 
sanctuary,  judgment,  free  agency,  the  Messiah,  worship, 
ceremonies,  and  leasts.  The  second  part  contains  ten 
treatises  on  six  hundred  and  thirteen  precepts,  the  oral 
law,  etc.  Three  abridgments  have  been  published,  one 
by  Eppstein  (Amst.  1683,  4to;  several  edit.);  the  sec- 
ond by  Zoref  Ila-Levi  (Frankf.  1681, 4to) ; and  the  third 
by  CEttling  Ben-Jechia  (Ven.  1705,  8vo) : — “dp  “H32, 
or  Commentary  on  “ the  book  of  Mordecai,”  was  at  first 
published  only  in  part  with  the  Seder  Mohed,  then  sep- 
arately (Amst.  1757,  4to;  Zolkiew,  1826,  fol.),  and  oft- 
encr  as  an  appendix  to  the  book  of  Mordecai,  or  in  some 
editions  of  the  Talmud:— 'p'ZV  rinaJl,  re- 
flections on  the  Emek  Berakah  of  his  father,  and  print- 
ed along  with  it  (Crac.  1597,  4to) ; also  in  the  two  sep- 
arate editions  of  the  preceding  work: — 2 puli'll 
(Amst.  1717,  4to;  with  a preface  and  glossaries  by  one 
of  his  descendants,  Abraham  Horwitz)  : it  is  a Caba- 
listic commentary  on  the  Psalms  and  on  prayers.  The 
same  work  contains  also  his  father’s  Sephtr  Berith 
A braliam. 

4.  Horwitz  ( Sabbatai  Sclieftel),  son  of  the  preced- 

ing, was  Rabbi  of  Frankfort,  then  of  Posen,  and  finally 
of  Vienna,  where  he  died  about  1658.  He  is  the  author 
of  three  Hebrew  works,  the  tirst  entitled  A Treatise  on 
Alorals,  in  six  parts,  serving  as  an  introduction  to  his 
father’s  work,  FYplSH  “VPd,  and  printed  with  it 

(Amst.  1649,  fob;  several  editions) : — 115M3,  printed  with 
his  grandfather’s  j"?n*2  dp  (Amst.  1717, 4to),  a work  on 
morals  already  referred  to  above  : — P1Z“2  Ej 
printed  with  his  grandfather’s  Emek  Berakah,  on  which 
it  is  a sort  of  commentary  (Amst.  1757,  4to;  Zolkiew, 
1826,  fob). 

5.  Horwitz,  Isaiah  bex-Jacob,  nephew  of  the  fore- 
going, and  grandson  of  the  former  Isaiah  Horwitz,  was  ) 
a native  of  Poland,  and  died  there  in  1695.  He  wrote  I 

(Venice,  1663,  4to),  and  some  commentaries ' 
on  the  Talmud  relating  to  Jewish  jurisprudence.  See 
J.  Buxtorf,  Rabbinica  Bibliotheca  ; Wolf,  Bibliotheca  Ile- 
braica  ; Rossi,  IJizionario  degli  An  tori  Ebrei;  J.  Fiirst, 
Biblioih.  Judaica ; Hoefer,  Voza-.  Biogr.  Gener.  xxv,  207. 
(J.  II.  W.) 

Ho'sah  (Heb.  Chosald,  Pen,  refuge  \ Sept.  'Q<rdJ 
'i2(rd,  and  ’Qcrz/a),  the  name  of  a place  and  also  of  a man.  { 

1.  A place  on  the  border  of  the  tribe  of  Asher,  at  a 
point  where  the  line  turned  from  the  direction  of  Tyre  | 
to  its  terminus  on  the  Mediterranean,  in  the  direction 
of  Achzib  (Josh,  xix,  29).  It  is  possibly  the  same  with  j 
the  modem  village  el-Ghazieh,  a little  south  of  Zidon ; I 


notwithstanding  the  objection  of  Schwarz  (who  thinks 
this  too  far  north,  and  prefers  a village  called  el-Bussah , 
a little  north  of  Eczib,  Palest,  p.  194),  since  it  is  uncer- 
tain which  way  the  boundary  is  here  described  as  run- 
ning, and  the  account  is  a good  deal  involved.  Van  de 
Velde  proposes  to  identify  it  with  el-Kauzah,  “ a village 
with  traces  of  antiquity  near  wady  cl-Ain”  (Memoir,  p. 
322),  the  Kauzih  of  Robinson  (new  Researches,  p.  61, 62) ; 
but  to  this  Keil  objects  (Comment,  on  Josh,  ad  loc.)  that 
“ the  situation  does  not  suit  in  this  connection,”  although 
it  lies  very  near  Kamah,  and  in  the  direction  from  Tyre 
towards  Achzib.  Sec  Elkosii. 

2.  A Levite  of  the  family  of  Merari,  who,  with  thir- 
teen of  his  relatives,  was  appointed  by  David  porter  of 
the  gate  Shallecheth,  on  the  west  side  of  the  Temple  (1 
Chron.  xvi,  38;  xxvi,  10,  11,  16).  B.C.  1014. 

Hosai.  See  Hozai. 

Hosan'na  (ujoanvee,  from  the  Heb. 
as  in  Psa.  cxviii,  25;  Isa.  hx,  1 ; xlv,  20),  a form  of  ac- 
clamatory  blessing  or  wishing  well,  which  signifies  Save 
now!  i.  e.  “succor  now!  be  now  propitious!”  It  occurs 
in  Matt. xxi, 9 (also  Mark  xi, 9, 10 ; John  xii,  13), “Ho- 
sanna to  the  Son  of  David ; Blessed  is  he  that  cometh  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord!  Hosanna  in  the  highest.”  This 
was  on  the  occasion  of  onr  Saviour’s  public  entry  into  Je- 
rusalem, and,  fairly  construed,  would  mean,  “ Lord,  pre- 
serve this  Son  of  David ; heap  favors  and  blessings  on 
him !”  It  is  further  to  be  observed  that  Hosanna  was  a 
customary  form  of  acclamation  at  the  Feast  of  Taberna- 
cles. This  feast  was  celebrated  in  September,  just  before 
i the  commencement  of  the  civil  year,  on  which  occasion 
l the  people  carried  in  their  hands  bundles  of  boughs  of 
! palms,  myrtles,  etc.  (Josephus,  A nt.  xiii,  13,  6 ; iii,  10, 4). 
They  then  repeated  the  25th  and  26th  verses  of  Psa. 
cxviii,  which  commence  with  the  word  Hosanna ; and 
from  this  circumstance  they  gave  the  boughs,  and  the 
prayers,  and  the  feast  itself  the  name  of  Hosanna.  They 
observed  the  same  forms,  also,  at  the  Encaenia,  or  Festi- 
val of  Dedication  (1  Macc.  x,  6, 7 ; 2 Macc.  xiii,  51 ; Rev, 
vii,  9),  and  the  Passover.  — Ivitto.  The  psalm  from 
Which  it  was  taken,  the  118th,  was  one  with  which  they 
were  familiar,  from  being  accustomed  to  recite  the  25th 
and  26th  verses  at  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles.  On  that 
occasion  the  Great  IJallcl,  consisting  ot  Psa.  cxiii-cxviii, 
was  chanted  by  one  of  the  priests,  and  at  certain  inter- 
vals the  multitudes  joined  in  the  responses,  waving  their 
branches  of  willow  and  palm,  and  shouting  as  tluy 
waved  them  Hallelujah,  or  Hosanna,  or  “O  Lord,  I be- 
seech thee,  send  now  prosperity”  (Psa.  cxviii,  25).  This 
was  done  at  the  recitation  of  the  first  and  last  verses  of 
Psa.  cxviii,  but,  according  to  the  school  of  Ilillel,  at  the 
words  “Save  now,  we  beseech  thee”  (vcr.  25).  The 
school  of  Shammai,  on  the  contrary,  say  it  was  at  the 
words  “ Send  now  prosperity”  of  the  same  verse.  Rab- 
ban  Gamaliel  and  R.  Joshua  were  observed  by  R.  Akiba 
to  wave  their  branches  only  at  the  words  “ Save  now, 
we  beseech  thee”  (Mishna,  Succah,  iii,  9).  On  each  of 
the  seven  days  during  which  the  feast  lasted  the  people 
thronged  in  the  court  of  the  Temple,  and  went  in  pro- 
cession about  the  altar,  setting  their  houghs  bending  to- 
wards it,  the  trumpets  sounding  as  they  shouted  Hosan- 
na. But  on  the  seventh  day  they  marched  seven  times 
round  the  altar,  shouting  meanwhile  the  great  Hosanna 
to  the  sound  of  the  trumpets  of  the  Levites  (Lightfoot, 
Temple  Service,  xvi,  2).  The  very  children  who  could 
wave  the  palm  branches  were  expected  to  take  part  in 
the  solemnity  (Mishna,  Succah,  iii,  15;  Matt,  xxi,  15). 
From  the  custom  of  waving  the  boughs  of  myrtle  and 
willow  during  the  sen-ice  the  name  Hosanna  was  ulti- 
mately transferred  to  the  boughs  themselves,  so  that, 
according  to  Elias  Levita  ( Thisbi , s.  v.),  “ the  bundles  of 
the  willows  of  the  brook  which  they  earn-  at  the  Feast 
of  Tabernacles  are  called  Hosannas.”  The  term  is  fre- 
quently applied  by  Jewish  writers  to  denote  the  Feast 
of  Tabernacles,  the  seventh  day  of  the  feast  being  dis- 
tinguished as  the  great  Hosanna  (Buxtorf,  Lex.  Talm.  s. 


HOSE 


352 


HOSEA 


v.  rr*1). — Smith.  Monographs  on  this  ejaculation  have 
been  written  in  Latin  by  Bindrim  (lios.  1671),Nothdurfft 
(Brunsw.  1713),  Pfaff  (Tubingen,  1789),  AA’inzer  (Lips. 
1(577-78, 1703),  Bucher  (Zittav.  1728),  AVemsdorf  (ATteb. 
17G5),  Zopf  (Lips.  1703).  See  Hallel. 

HOSANNA.  The  early  Christian  Church  adopted 
this  word  into  its  worship.  It  is  found  in  the  apostol- 
ical constitutions  connected  with  the  great  doxology  or 
exclamation  of  triumph,  “ Glory  be  to  God  on  high,”  and 
was  frequently  used  in  the  communion  service,  during 
which  the  great  doxology  was  also  sung. — Eadie,  Eccl. 
Diet.  p.  314 ; Bingham,  Christ.  Antiq.  i,  41 ; ii,  090.  (J. 

H.  AA\) 

Hose  jjattish',  only  in  the  plur.,  marg. 

pe'tesh,  Chald.,  “ hosen,”  Dan.  iii,  21).  AATiat  article  of 
apparel  is  here  denoted  is  not  certain.  Theodotion  (per- 
haps also  the  Sept.)  and  the  ATulg.  understand  a tiara  ,• 
compare  Greek  7rsTaaog,Ycnet.  Gr.  vers,  dva^vpig  ; but 
the  Ileb.  interpreters  more  correctly  render  a tunic  or 
under-garment  (P2’pl 3 =xtrwn),  a signification  that  bet- 
ter agrees  with  an  ample  garment  (from  (w^S,  to  ex- 
pand). The  term  does  not  elsewhere  occur;  but  see 
Buxtorff,  Lex.  Talm.  col.  1805. — Gesenius.  See  Dress. 

Hose'a  (lleb.  lloshe’a,  P'L**n,  deliverance ),  or  “II o- 
shea”  (as  it  is  more  correctly  Anglicized  in  Deut.  xxxii, 
44;  2 Kings  xv,  30;  xvii,  1,  3,  4,  6;  xviii,  1,  9,  10;  1 
Chron.  xxvii,  20;  Neh.  x,  23;  but  “ Oshea”  in  Numb, 
xiii,  8,  6),  the  name  of  several  men. 

1.  Hoshea  or  Oshea  (Sept.  Aver!]  and  T?7<7o£J£,ATilg. 
Osee  and  Josne),  the  original  name  of  Joshua  (q.  v.), 
Moses’s  successor  (Numb,  xiii,  8,  16;  Deut.  xxxii,  44). 

2.  IIoshea,  the  son  of  Azariah,  and  viceroy  of  the 
Ephraimites  under  David  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  20).* 

3.  Hosea  (Sept.  ’0<7?;f,ATulg.  Osee, N. T.  “ Osee,” 
Bom.  ix,  25),  the  son  of  Beeri  (Hos.  i,  1,  2),  and  author 
of  the  book  of  prophecies  which  bears  his  name.  See 
Prophet. 

The  personal  history  of  the  prophet  Hosea  is  so  close- 
ly interwoven  with  his  book  of  prophecies  that  it  will 
be  most  convenient  to  consider  them  together;  indeed, 
the  principal  recorded  events  of  his  life  were  a series  of 
prophetical  symbols  themselves.  The  figments  of  Jew- 
ish writers  regarding  Hosea’s  parentage  need  scarcely 
be  mentioned  (see  J.  Fredericus,  Exercit.  de  llosea  et  va- 
ticiniis  ejus,  Lips.  1715).  His  father  has  been  confound- 
ed with  Beera.h,  a prince  of  the  Reubenites  (1  Chron.  v, 
G).  So,  too,  Beeri  has  been  reckoned  a prophet  himself, 
according  to  the  rabbinical  notion  that  the  mention  of 
a prophet’s  father  in  the  introduction  to  his  prophecies 
is  a proof  that  sire  as  well  as  son  was  endowed  with  the 
oracular  spirit. 

1.  Place. — A Vh ether  Hosea  was  a citizen  of  Israel  or 
Judah  has  been  disputed.  The  pscudo-Epiphanius  and 
Dorotheus  of  Tyre  speak  of  him  as  being  bom  at  Bele- 
moth,  in  the  tribe  of  Issachar  (Epiphan.  De  Litis  Proph- 
et. cap.  xi ; Dorotli.  De  Propli.  cap.  i).  Drusius  ( Critici 
Sacri,  in  loc.,  tom.  v)  prefers  the  reading  “ Beth-semes,” 
and  quotes  Jerome,  who  says,  “Osee  de  tribu  Issachar 
fuit  ortus  in  Beth-semes.”  But  Maurer  contends  strenu- 
ously that  he  belonged  to  the  kingdom  of  Judah  {Com- 
ment. Theol.,  ed.  BosenmUller,  ii,  391) ; while  Jahn  sup- 
poses that  he  exercised  his  office,  not,  as  Amos  did,  in 
Israel,  but  in  the  principality  of  Judah.  Maurer  appeals 
to  the  superscription  in  Amos  as  a proof  that  prophets 
of  Jewish  origin  were  sometimes  commissioned  to  labor 
in  the  kingdom  of  Israel  (against  the  appeal  to  Amos, 
see  Credner,  Joel,  p.  66 ; Hitzig,  Kurzgef.  exerjet.  Handb. 
zum  .1.  T.  p.  72).  But  with  the  exception  of  the  case 
recorded  in  1 Kings  xiii,  1 (a  case  altogether  too  singu- 
lar and  mysterious  to  serve  as  an  argument),  the  in- 
stance of  Amos  is  a solitary  oue,  and  seems  to  have  been 
regarded  as  anomalous  by  his  contemporaries  (Amos  vii, 
12).  Neither  can  we  assent  to  the  other  hypothesis  of 
Maurer,  that  the  mention  of  the  Jewish  kings  Uzziah, 
Jotham,  Ahaz,  and  Bezekiah,  by  Hosea  in  his  super- 


scription, is  a proof  that  the  seer  regarded  them  as  his 
rightful  sovereigns,  as  monarchs  of  that  territory  which 
gave  him  birth.  Hengstenberg  has  well  replied,  that 
Maurer  forgets  “ the  relation  in  which  the  pious  in  Is- 
rael generally,  and  the  prophets  in  particular,  stood  to 
the  kingdom  of  Judah.  They  considered  the  whole  sep- 
aration, not  only  the  religious,  but  also  the  civil,  as  an 
apostasy  from  God.  The  dominion  of  the  theocracy 
was  promised  to  be  the  throne  of  David.”  The  lofty 
Elijah,  on  a memorable  occasion,  when  a direct  and  sol- 
emn appeal  was  made  to  the  head  of  the  theocracy,  took 
twelve  stones,  one  for  each  tribe — a proof  that  he  regard- 
ed the  nation  as  one  in  religious  confederation.  It  was 
also  necessary,  for  correct  chronology,  that  the  kings  of 
both  nations  should  be  noted.  The  other  argument  of 
Maurer  for  Hosea’s  being  a Jew,  viz.  because  his  own 
people  are  so  severely  threatened  in  his  reproofs  and  de- 
nunciations, implies  a predominance  of  national  prepos- 
session or  antipathy  in  the  inspired  breast  which  is  in- 
consistent with  our  notions  of  the  piety  and  patriotism 
of  the  prophetic  commission  (Knobel,  Dec  Prophetismus 
der  Hebraer,  i,  203).  AA"e  therefore  accede  to  the  opin- 
ion of  De  AArette,  BosenmUller,  Hengstenberg,  Eiclihorn, 
Manger,  Uhland,  and  Kuiniil,  that  Hosea  was  an  Israel- 
ite, a native  of  that  kingdom  with  whose  sins  and  fates 
i his  book  is  specially  and  primarily  occupied.  The  name 
Ephraim  occurs  in  his  prophecies  about  thirty-five  times, 
and  Israel  with  equal  frequency,  while  Judah  is  not  men- 
tioned more  than  fourteen  times.  Samaria  is  frequent- 
ly spoken  of  (vii,  1 ; viii,  5, 6 ; x,  5, 7 ; xiv,  1),  Jerusalem 
never.  All  the  other  localities  introduced  arc  connected 
with  the  northern  kingdom,  either  as  forming  part  of  it, 
or  lying  on  its  borders : Mizpali,  Tabor  (v,  1),  Gilgal  (iv, 
15;  ix,  15;  xii,  12  [11]),  Bethel,  called  also  Betliaven 
(x,  15 ; xii,  5 [4]  ; iv,  15 ; v,  8 ; x,  5, 8) ; Jezreel  (i,  4), 
Gibeah  (v,  8 ; ix,  9),  Ramah  (v,  8),  Gilead  (vi,  8;  xii,  12 
[11]),  Shechem  (vi,  9),  Lebanon  (xiv,  6,7),  Arbela  (x, 
14  [?]). 

2.  Time. — There  is  no  reason,  with  De  AA”ette,  Mau- 
rer, and  Hitzig,  to  doubt  the  genuineness  of  the  present 
superscription,  or,  with  Rosenmiiller  and  Jahn,  to  sup- 
pose that  it  may  have  been  added  by  a later  hand — 
though  the  last  two  writers  uphold  its  authenticity. 
These  first  and  second  verses  of  the  prophecy  are  so 
closely  connected  in  the  structure  of  the  language  and 
style  of  the  narration,  that  the  second  verse  itself  would 
become  suspicious  if  the  first  were  reckoned  a spurious 
addition.  This  superscription  states  that  Hosea  proph- 
esied during  a long  and  eventful  period,  commencing 
in  the  days  of  Jeroboam,  the  son  of  Joash,  extending 
through  the  lives  of  Uzziah,  Jotham,  Ahaz,  and  con- 
cluding in  the  reign  of  Hezekiah.  As  Jeroboam  died 
B.C.  782,  and  Hezekiah  ascended  the  throne  726,  we 
have  the  round  term  of  about  sixty  years,  B.C.  cir.  784- 
724,  as  the  probable  space  of  time  covered  by  the  utter- 
ance of  these  predictions  (Maurer,  in  the  Comment.  Theol. 
p.  284,  and  more  lately  in  his  Comment.  Gramm.  Hist. 
Crit.  in  Proph.  Min.  Lips.  1840).  The  time  when  they 
were  committed  to  writing  may  probably  be  fixed  at 
about  B.C.  725.  This  long  duration  of  office  is  not  im- 
probable, and  the  book  itself  furnishes  strong  presump- 
tive evidence  in  support  of  this  chronology.  The  first 
prophecy  of  Hosea  foretells  the  overthrow  of  Jehu’s 
house;  and  the  menace  was  fulfilled  on  the  death  of 
Jeroboam,  his  great-grandson.  This  prediction  must 
have  been  uttered  during  Jeroboam’s  life.  Again,  in 
ch.  x,  14,  allusion  is  made  to  an  expedition  of  Shalma- 
neser against  Israel ; and  if  it  was  the  first  inroad 
against  king  Hoshea  (2  Kings  xvii,  4),  who  began  to 
reign  in  the  twelfth  year  of  Ahaz,  the  event  referred  to 
by  the  prophet  as  past  must  have  happened  close  upon 
the  beginning  of  the  government  of  Hezekiah.  These 
data  corroborate  the  limits  assigned  in  the  superscrip- 
tion, and  they  are  capable  of  verification  by  reference 
to  the  contents  of  the  prophecy,  (a.)  As  to  the  begin- 
ning, Eichhorn  has  clearly  shown  that  we  cannot  allow 
Hosea  much  ground  in  the  reign  of  Jeroboam  (823-782). 


110  SEA 


353 


HOSEA 


The  book  contains  descriptions  which  are  utterly  inap- 
plicable to  the  condition  of  the  kingdom  of  Israel  during 
this  reign  (2  Kings  xiv,  25  sq.).  The  pictures  of  social 
and  political  life  which  Hosca  draws  so  forcibly  are 
rather  applicable  to  the  interregnum  which  followed 
the  death  of  Jeroboam  (781-771),  and  to  the  reign  of 
the  succeeding  kings.  The  calling  in  of  Egypt  and 
Assyria  to  the  aid  of  rival  factions  (x,  3;  xiii,  10)  has 
nothing  to  do  with  the  strong  and  able  government  of 
Jeroboam.  Nor  is  it  conceivable  that  a prophet  who 
had  lived  long  under  Jeroboam  should  have  omitted  the 
mention  of  that  monarch’s  conquests  in  his  enumeration 
of  Jehovah’s  kindnesses  to  Israel  (ii,  8).  It  seems,  then, 
almost  certain  that  very  few  at  least  of  his  prophecies 
were  written  until  after  the  death  of  Jeroboam  (781). 
(5.)  As  regards  the  end  of  his  career,  the  title  leaves  us 
in  still  greater  doubt.  It  merely  assures  us  that  he  did 
not  prophesy  beyond  the  reign  of  Hezekiali.  But  here, 
again,  the  contents  of  the  book  help  us  to  reduce  the 
vagueness  of  this  indication.  In  the  sixth  year  of  Ilez- 
ckiah  the  prophecy  of  Ilosea  was  fulfilled,  and  it  is  very 
improbable  that  he  should  have  permitted  this  trium- 
phant proof  of  his  divine  mission  to  pass  unnoticed.  He 
could  not,  therefore,  have  lived  long  into  the  reign  of 
Hezekiali ; and  as  it  does  not  seem  necessary  to  allow 
more  than  a year  of  each  reign  to  justify  his  being  rep- 
resented as  a contemporary  on  the  one  hand  of  Jerobo- 
am, on  the  other  of  Ilezekiah,  we  may  suppose  that  the 
life,  or,  rather,  the  prophetic  career  of  Ilosea,  extended 
from  782  to  725,  a period  of  fifty-seven  years. 

3.  Order  in  the  Prophetic  Series. — Ilosea  is  the  first 
in  order  of  the  twelve  minor  prophets  in  the  common 
editions  of  the  Scriptures  (Heb.,  Sept.,  and  Yulg.),  an 
arrangement,  however,  supposed  to  have  arisen  from  a 
misinterpretation  of  chap,  i,  2,  which  rather  denotes  that 
what  follows  were  the  first  divine  communications  en- 
joyed, by  this  particular  prophet  (see  Jerome,  Prefat.  in 
xii  Prophet  as ; Hengstenberg,  Christol.  Keith’s  transl., 
ii,  23;  I)e  Wette,  Einleitnng , § 225;  Rosenm  filler,  Scho- 
lia in  Min.  Proph.  p.  7 ; Newcome,  Pref.  to  Min.  Proph- 
ets, p.  45).  The  probable  causes  of  this  location  of  Ho- 
sea  may  be  the  thoroughly  national  character  of  liis 
oracles,  their  length,  their  earnest  tone,  and  vivid  rep- 
resentations. The  contour  of  the  book  has  a closer  re- 
semblance to  the  greater  prophets  than  any  of  the 
eleven  productions  by  which  it  is  succeeded.  (Sec  be- 
low.) There  is  much  doubt  as  to  the  relative  order  of 
the  first  four  or  five  of  the  minor  prophets:  as  far  as 
titles  go,  Amos  is  Hosea's  only  rival;  but  2 Kings  xiv, 
25  goes  far  to  show  that  they  must  both  yield  in  priori- 
ty to  Jonah.  It  is  perhaps  more  important  to  know  that 
llosea  must  have  been  more  or  less  contemporary  with 
Isaiah,  Amos,  Jonah,  Joel,  and  Nahum. 

4.  Circumstance,  Scope , and  Contents  of  the  Booh . — The 
years  of  Hosea’s  public  life  were  dark  and  melancholy 
(see  Pusey,  Minor  Prophets,  ad  loc.).  The  nation  suffer- 
ed under  the  evils  of  that  schism  which  was  effected  by 
“Jeroboam, who  made  Israel  to  sin.”  The  obligations 
of  law  had  been  relaxed,  and  the  claims  of  religion  disre- 
garded; Baal  became  the  rival  of  Jehovah,  and  in  the 
dark  recesses  of  the  groves  were  practised  the  impure 
and  murderous  rites  of  heathen  deities;  peace  and  pros- 
perity fled  the  land,  which  was  harassed  by  foreign  inva- 
sion and  domestic  broils;  might  and  murder  became  the 
twin  sentinels  of  the  throne;  alliances  were  formed  with 
other  nations,  which  brought  with  them  seductions  to 
paganism;  captivity  and  insult  were  heaped  upon  Israel 
by  the  uncircumcised ; the  nation  was  thoroughly  de- 
based, and  but  a fraction  of  its  population  maintained  its 
spiritual  allegiance  (2  Kings  xix,  18).  The  death  of  Jero- 
boam II  was  followed  by  an  interregnum  of  eleven  years 
(B.C.  781-770),  at  the  end  of  which  his  son  Zachariah  as- 
sumed the  sovereignty,  and  was  slain  by  Sliallum,  after 
the  short  space  of  six  months  (2  Kings  xv,  10).  In  four 
weeks  Shallum  was  assassinated  by  Menahem.  The  as- 
sassin, during  a disturbed  reign  of  ten  years  (B.C.  769- 
759),  became  tributary  to  the  Assyrian  Pul.  His  succes- 


sor, Pekahiah,  wore  the  crown  but  two  years,  when  he 
was  murdered  by  Pekah.  I’ekah,  after  swaying  his 
bloody  sceptre  for  twenty  years  (B.C.  757-737),  met  a 
similar  fate  in  the  conspiracy  of  Iloshea;  Iloshea,  the 
last  of  the  usurpers,  after  another  interregnum  of  eight 
years, ascended  the  throne  (B.C. 729), and  his  administra- 
tion of  nine  years  ended  in  the  overthrow  of  his  kingdom 
and  the  expatriation  of  his  people  (2  Kings  xvii,  18, 23). 

The  prophecies  of  Ilosea  were  directed  especially 
against  the  country  of  Israel  or  Ephraim,  whose  sin  had 
brought  upon  it  such  disasters — prolonged  anarchy  and 
final  captivity.  Their  homicides  and  fornications,  their 
perjury  and  theft,  their  idolatry  and  impiety,  are  cen- 
sured and  satirized  with  a faithful  severity.  Judah  is 
sometimes,  indeed,  introduced,  warned,  and  admonished. 
Bishop  Horsley  ( IPorEs,  iii,  230)  reckons  it  a mistake  to 
suppose  “ that  Hosea’s  prophecies  are  almost  wholly  di- 
rected against  the  kingdom  of  Israel.”  The  bishop  de- 
scribes what  he  thinks  the  correct  extent  of  Hosea’s  com- 
mission, but  has  adduced  no  proof  of  his  assertion.  Any 
one  reading  Hosea  will  at  once  discover  that  the  oracles 
having  relation  to  Israel  are  primary,  ivhile  the  references 
to  Judah  are  only  incidental.  In  chap,  i,  7,  Judah  is  men- 
tioned in  contrast  with  Israel,  to  whose  condition  the 
symbolic  name  of  the  prophet’s  son  is  specially  applica- 
ble. In  ver.  11  the  future  union  of  the  two  nations  is 
predicted.  The  long  oracle  in  chap,  ii  has  no  relation 
to  Judah,  nor  the  symbolic  representation  in  chap.  iii. 
Chap,  iv  is  severe  upon  Ephraim,  and  ends  with  a very 
brief  exhortation  to  Judah  not  to  follow  his  example. 
In  the  succeeding  chapters  allusions  to  Judah  do  indeed 
occasionally  occur, -when  similar  sins  can  be  predicated  of 
both  branches  of  the  nation.  The  prophet’s  mind  was 
intensely  interested  in  the  destinies  of  his  own  people. 
The  nations  around  him  arc  unheeded ; his  prophetic 
eye  beholds  the  crisis  approaching  his  country,  and  secs 
its  cantons  ravaged, its  tribes  murdered  or  enslaved.  No 
wonder  that  his  rebukes  were  so  terrible,  his  menaces 
so  alarming,  that  his  soul  poured  forth  its  strength  in  an 
ecstasy  of  grief  and  affection.  Invitations  replete  with 
tenderness  and  pathos  are  interspersed  with  his  warnings 
and  expostulations.  Now  we  are  startled  with  a vision 
of  the  throne,  at  first  shrouded  in  darkness,  and  sending 
forth  lightnings,  thunders,  and  voices ; but  while  we  gaze, 
it  becomes  encircled  with  a rainbow,  which  gradually  ex- 
pands till  it  is  lost  in  that  universal  brilliancy  which  it- 
self had  originated  (chaps,  xi  and  xiv). 

5.  The  Prophet's  Family  Relations.  — The  peculiar 
mode  of  instruction  which  the  prophet  details  in  the 
first  and  third  chapters  of  his  oracles  has  given  rise  t© 
many  disputed  theories.  We  refer  to  the  command  ex- 
pressed in  i,  2 — “And  the  Lord  said  unto  Ilosea,  Go, 
take  unto  thee  a wife  of  whoredoms  and  children  of 
whoredoms,”  etc.;  iii,  1,  “Then  said  the  Lord  unto  me, 
Go  yet,  love  a woman  beloved  of  her  friend,  yet  an 
adulteress,”  etc.  Were  these  real  events,  the  residt  of 
divine  injunctions  literally  understood,  and  as  literally 
fulfilled?  or  were  these  intimations  to  the  prophet  only 
intended  to  be  pictorial  illustrations  of  the  apostasy  and 
spiritual  folly  and  unfaithfulness  of  Israel?  The  former 
view,  viz.  that  the  prophet  actually  and  literally  entered 
into  this  impure  connubial  alliance,  -was  advocated  in 
ancient  times  by  Cyril,  Tlieodoret,  Basil,  and  Augus- 
tine; and  more  recently  has  been  maintained  by  Mer- 
cer, Grotius,  Iloubigant,  Manger,  Horsley,  Eichhorn, 
Stuck,  and  others.  Fanciful  theories  are  also  rife  on 
this  subject.  Luther  supposed  the  prophet  to  perform 
a kind  of  drama  in  view  of  the  people,  giving  his  lawful 
wife  and  children  these  mystical  appellations.  New- 
come  {Minor  Prophets)  thinks  that  a wife  of  fornication 
means  merely  an  Israelite,  a woman  of  apostate  and 
adulterous  Israel.  So  J ac.  Capelins  full oseam ; Opera, 
p.  G83).  Hengstenberg  supposes  the  prophet  to  relate 
actions  which  happened,  indeed,  actually,  but  not  out- 
wardly. Some,  with  Mai mon ides  ( Moreh  Xevochim.  pt. 
ii),  imagine  it  to  be  a nocturnal  vision ; while  others 
make  it  wholly  an  allegory,  as  the  Chaldee  Paraplirast, 


HOSEA 


354 


HOSEA 


Jerome,  Drusius,  Bauer,  liosenmiiller,  Kuinbl,  and  Lowth.  1 
The  view  of  Hengstenberg  ( Christologg , ii,  11-22),  and 
such  as  have  held  his  theory  (Markii  Diatribe  de  uxore  \ 
fornicatiomvn  aecipienda,  etc.,  Lugdun.  Batav.  1606),  is 
not  materially  different  from  the  last  to  which  we  have 
referred  (see  Liibkerk  in  the  Theol.  Stud.  u.  Krit.  1835, 
p.  647  sq.).  Besides  other  arguments  resting  on  the 
impurity  and  loathsomeness  of  the  supposed  nuptial 
contract,  it  may  be  argued  against  the  external  reality 
of  the  event  that  it  must  have  required  several  years 
for  its  completion,  and  that  the  impressiveness  of  the 
symbol  would  therefore  be  weakened  and  obliterated. 
But  this  would  almost  equally  apply  to  the  repeated 
case  of  Isaiah  (viii,  3 ; xx,  3).  Other  prophetic  trans- 
actions of  a similar  nature  might  be  referred  to.  Jerome 
( Comment . ad  loc.)  has  referred  to  Ezek.  iv,  4.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  total  absence  of  any  figurative  or  sym- 
bolical phraseology  seems  to  require  the  command  to  be 
taken  in  a literal  sense,  and  the  immediate  addition  of 
the  declaration  that  the  order  was  obeyed  serves  to  eon- 
firm  this  view.  It  is  not  to  be  supposed,  as  has  some- 
times been  argued,  that  the  prophet  was  commanded  to 
commit  fornication.  The  divine  injunction  was  to  mar- 
ry— “ Scortum  aliquis  ducere  potest  sine  peeeato,  scor- 
tari  non  item”  (Drusius,  Comm,  ad  loc.  in  Critici  Sacri, 
tom.  v.).  Moreover,  if,  as  the  narrative  implies,  and  as 
the  analogy  of  the  restored  nation  requires,  the  formerly 
unchaste  woman  became  a faithful  and  reformed  wife, 
the  entire  ground  of  the  objection  in  a moral  point  of 
view  vanishes  (see  Cowles,  Minor  Prophets , ad  loc.). 
In  fact,  there  were  two  marriages  by  the  prophet:  the 
first,  in  chap,  i,  ii,  of  a woman  (probably  of  lewd  incli- 
nations already)  who  became  the  mother  of  three  cliil- 
dren,  and  was  afterwards  repudiated  for  her  adultery ; ! 
and  the  second,  in  chap,  iii,  of  a woman  at  least  attach- 
ed formerly  to  another,  but  evidently  reformed  to  a vir- 
tuous wife.  Both  these  women  represented  the  Israel- 
itish  nation,  especially  the  northern  kingdom,  which, 
although  unfaithful  to  Jehovah,  should  first  be  punish- 
ed and  then  reclaimed  by  him.  Keil,  after  combating 
at  length  {Minor  Prophets,  introduct.  to  Hosea)  against 
Kurtz’s  arguments  for  the  literal  view,  is  obliged  to  as- 
sign the  moral  objection  as  the  only  tenable  one.  This, 
however,  is  a very  unsatisfactory  mode  of  disposing  of 
the  question,  for  we  arc  not  at  liberty  thus  to  explain 
away  the  reality  of  the  occurrence  simply  to  evade  its 
difficulties.  Moreover,  if  it  be  a symbol,  what  becomes 
of  its  force  unless  based  upon  a fact  ? Nor  do  the  proph- 
ets receive  visions  respecting  their  own  personal  acts. 
Finally,  the  internal  suggestion  of  a wrong  act  to  the 
prophet’s  mind  as  one  to  be  not  merely  tolerated,  but 
committed,  would  be  equivalent,  in  point  of  moral  ob- 
liquity, to  the  actual  deed  itself;  at  least  according  to 
our  Saviour’s  rule  of  guilt  in  such  a matter  (Matt,  v, 
28).  This  last  remark  leads  us  to  the  true  solution  of 
the  whole  difficulty,  which  lias  simply  arisen  from  judg- 
ing O.-T.  morals  by  a Gospel  standard,  in  neglect  of  the 
important  principle  enunciated  by  Christ  himself  on  the  I 
very  question  of  the  relations  of  the  sexes  (Matt,  xix, 
8).  The  Mosaic  precept  (Lev.  xxi,  14)  has  no  perti- 
nence here,  for  Hosea  was  not  a priest. 

But  in  whichever  way  this  question  may  be  solved — 
whether  these  occurrences  be  regarded  as  a real  and  ex- 
ternal transaction,  or  as  a piece  of  spiritual  scenery,  or 
only  (Witsii  Miscell.  Sac.  p.  90)  as  an  allegorical  de- 
scription—it  is  agreed  on  all  hands  that  the  actions  are 
typical ; that  they  are,  as  Jerome  calls  them,  sacrumenta 
futurorum.  One  question  which  sprang  out  of  the  lit- 
eral view  was  whether  the  connection  between  Hosea 
and  Gomer  was  marriage  or  fornication.  Another  ques- 
tion which  followed  immediately  upon  the  preceding 
was  “ an  Deus  possit  dispensare  ut  fornicatio  sit  licita.” 
This  latter  question  was  much  discussed  by  the  school- 
men, and  by  the  Thomists  it  wa3  avowed  in  the  affirm- 
ative. 

Expositors  are  not  at  all  agreed  as  to  the  meaning  of 
the  phrase  “ wife  of  whoredoms,”  D“*3!13T  JTL'X;  wheth- 


er the  phrase  refers  to  harlotry  before  marriage,  or  mi* 
faithfulness  after  it.  It  may  afford  an  easy  solution  of 
the  difficulty  if  we  look  at  the  antitype  in  its  history 
and  character.  Adultery  is  the  appellation  of  idolatrous 
apostasy.  The  Jewish  nation  were  espoused  to  God. 
The  contract  was  formed  in  Sinai ; but  the  Jewish  peo- 
ple had  prior  to  this  period  gone  a-whoring.  Josh, 
xxiv,  2-14,  “Your  fathers  dwelt  on  the  other  side  of  the 
flood  in  old  time,  and  they  served  other  gods.”  Comp. 
Lev.  xvii,  7,  in  which  it  is  implied  that  idolatrous  pro- 
pensities had  also  developed  themselves  during  the 
abode  in  Egypt:  so  that  the  phrase  here  employed  may 
signify  one  devoted  to  lasciviousness  prior  to  her  mar- 
riage. Yet  this  propensity  of  the  Israelites  to  idolatry- 
had  been  measurably  covert  prior  to  the  Exode.  On 
the  other  hand,  none  but  a female  of  previously  lewd 
inclinations  would  be  likely  to  violate  her  conjugal  ob- 
ligations; and  Eiehhorn  shows  that  marrying  an  avow- 
ed harlot  is  not  necessarily  implied  by  E"3“t  r'L'Nj 
which  may  very  well  imply  a wife  who  after  marriage 
becomes  an  adulteress,  even  though  chaste  before.  In 
any  ease  the  marriage  must  be  supposed  to  have  been 
a real  contract,  or  its  significance  would  be  lost.  Jer. 
ii,  2,  “I  remember  thee,  the  kindness  of  thy  youth,  the 
love  of  thine  espousals,  when  thou  wentest  after  me  in 
the  wilderness,  in  a land  that  was  not  sown.”  The  facts 
in  the  case  of  the  Israelitisli  nation  correspond  with  this 
symbol  of  a woman  who  had  been  of  bad  repute  before 
marriage,  and  who  proved  a notorious  profligate  after- 
wards. C"3*3“  children  of  whoredoms,  refer  most; 

naturally  to  the  two  sons  and  daughter  afterwards  to  be 
born.  They  were  not  the  prophet’s  own,  but  a spurious 
offspring  palmed  upon  him  by  his  faithless  spouse,  as  is 
intimated  in  the  allegory,  and  they  followed  the  perni- 
cious example  of  the  mother.  Spiritual  adultery  was 
the  debasing  sin  of  Israel.  “Non  dicitur,”  observes 
Manger,  “cognovit  uxorem,  sed  simpliciter  concepit  et 
peperit.”  The  children  are  not  his.  It  is  said,  indeed, 
in  ver.  3,  “ She  bare  him  a son.”  The  word  i?  is  want- 
ing in  some  MSS.  and  in  some  copies  of  the  Sept.  If 
genuine,  it  only  shows  the  effrontery  of  the  adulteress, 
and  the  patience  of  the  husband  in  receiving  and  edu- 
cating as  his  own  a spurious  brood.  The  Israelites  who 
had  been  received  into  covenant  very  soon  fell  from 
their  first  love,  and  were  characterized  by  insatiable 
spiritual  wantonness:  yet  their  3 laker,  their  husband, 
did  not  at  once  divorce  them,  but  exhibited  a marvel- 
lous long-suffering. 

The  names  of  the  children  being  symbolical,  the  name 
of  the  mother  has  been  thought  to  have  a similar  signi- 
fication. Gomer  Bath-Dibluim  may  have  the  symbolic 
sense  of“one  thoroughly  abandoned  to  sensual  delights;” 
“"Eh  signifies  completion  (Ewald,  Grammat.  § 228); 
'Z’'0'Z^l,  “ daughter  of  grape-cakes ,”  the  dual  form  being 
expressive  of  the  mode  in  which  these  dainties  were 
baked  in  double  layers.  The  names  of  the  children  are 
Jezreel,  Lo-ruhamah,  and  Lo-ammi.  The  prophet  ex- 
plains the  meaning  of  the  appellations.  It  is  generally 
supposed  that  the  names  refer  to  three  successive  gener- 
ations of  the  Israelitisli  people.  Hengstenberg,  on  the 
other  hand,  argues  that  “ wife  and  children  both  are  the 
people  of  Israel : the  three  names  must  not  be  consid- 
ered separately,  but  taken  together.”  But  as  the  mar- 
riage is  first  mentioned,  and  the  births  of  the  children 
are  detailed  in  order,  some  time  elapsing  between  the 
events,  we  rather  adhere  to  the  ordinary  exposition. 
Nor  is  it  without  reason  that  the  second  child  is  de- 
scribed as  a female.  The  first  child,  Jezreel,  may  refer 
to  the  first  dynasty  of  Jeroboam  I and  his  successors, 
which  was  terminated  in  the  blood  of  Aliab’s  house 
shed  by  Jehu  at  Jezreel.  The  name  suggests  also  the 
cruel  and  fraudident  possession  of  the  vineyard  of  Na- 
both, “ which  was  in  Jezreel,”  where,  too,  the  woman  Jez- 
ebel was  slain  so  ignominiously  (1  Kings  xvi,  1 ; 2 Kings 
ix,  21).  But  since  Jehu  and  his  family  had  become 
as  corrupt  as  their  predecessors,  the  scenes  of  Jezreel 


IIOSE  A 


355 


IIOSEA 


were  again  to  be  enacted,  and  John’s  race  must  perish. 
Jezreel,  the  spot  referred  to  by  the  prophet,  is  also,  ac- 
cording to  Jerome,  the  place  where  the  Assyrian  army 
routed  the  Israelites.  The  name  of  this  child  associates 
the  past  and  future,  symbolizes  past  sins,  intermediate 
punishments,  and  final  overthrow.  The  name  of  the 
second  child,  Lo-ruhamah,  “ not-pitied,”  the  appellation 
of  a degraded  daughter,  may  refer  to  the  feeble , effemi- 
nate period  which  followed  the  overthrow  of  the  first 
dynasty,  when  Israel  became  weak  and  helpless  as  well 
as  sunk  and  abandoned.  The  favor  of  God  was  not  ex- 
hibited to  the  nation:  they  were  as  abject  as  impious. 
But  the  reign  of  Jeroboam  II  was  prosperous;  new  en- 
ergv  was  infused  into  the  kingdom;  gleams  of  its  lor- 
mcr  prosperity  shone  upon  it.  This  revival  of  strength 
in  that  generation  may  be  typified  by  the  birth  of  a 
third  child,  a son,  Lo-ammi,  “ not-my-people”  (2  Kings 
xiv,  25).  Yet  prosperity  did  not  bring  with  it  a revival 
of  piety;  still,  although  their  vigor  was  recruited,  they 
were  not  God’s  people  (Lectures  on  the  Jewish  Antiqui- 
ties and  Scriptures,  by  J.  G.  Palfrey,  ii,  422,  Boston,  1841). 
See  each  name  in  its  place. 

G.  Division  of  the  Book. — Recent  writers,  such  as  Ber- 
tholdt,  Eichhorn,  De  Wette,  Stuck,  Maurer,  and  Hitzig, 
have  labored  much,  but  in  vain,  to  divide  the  book  of 
Hosea  into  separate  portions,  assigning  to  each  the  pe- 
riod at  which  it  was  written  ; but  from  the  want  of  suf- 
ficient data  the  attempt  must  rest  principally  on  taste 
and  fancy.  A sufficient  proof  of  the  correctness  of  this 
opinion  may  be  found  in  the  contradictory  sections  and 
allotments  of  the  various  writers  who  have  engaged  in 
the  task.  Chapters  i,  ii,  and  iii  evidently  form  one  di- 
vision : it  is  next  to  impossible  to  separate  and  distin- 
guish the  other  chapters.  The  form  and  style  are  very 
similar  throughout  all  the  second  portion. 

The  subdivision  of  these  several  parts  is  a work  of 
greater  difficulty : that  of  Eichhorn  will  be  found  to  be 
based  upon  a highly  subtle,  though  by  no  means  preca- 
rious criticism.  (1 .)  According  to  him,  the  first  division 
should  be  subdivided  into  three  separate  poems,  each 
originating  in  a distinct  aim,  and  each  after  its  own 
fashion  attempting  to  express  the  idolatry  of  Israel  by 
imagery  borrowed  from  the  matrimonial  relation.  The 
first,  and  therefore  the  least  elaborate  of  these,  is  con- 
tained in  chap. iii;  the  second  in  i, 2—1 1 ; the  third  in  i, 
2-9,  and  ii,  1-23.  These  three  are  progressively  elabo- 
rate developments  of  the  same  reiterated  idea.  Chap,  i, 
2-9  is  common  to  the  second  and  third  poems,  but  not 
repeated  with  each  severally  (iv,  273  sq.),  (2.)  Attempts 
have  been  made  by  Wells,  Eichhorn,  etc.,  to  subdivide 
the  second  part  of  the  book.  These  divisions  are  made 
either  according  to  reigns  of  contemporary  kings,  or  ac- 
cording to  the  subject-matter  of  the  poem.  The  former 
course  has  been  adopted  by  Wells,  who  gets  fir,  the  lat- 
ter by  Eichhorn,  who  gets  sixteen  poems  out  of  this  part 
of  the  book. 

These  prophecies — so  scattered,  so  unconnected  that 
bishop  Lowth  has  compared  them  with  the  leaves  of 
the  Sibyl — were  probably  collected  by  Ilosea  himself  to- 
wards the  end  of  his  career. 

8.  Style. — The  peculiarities  of  Ilosea’s  style  have  often 
been  remarked.  Jerome  says  of  him,  “ Commaticus  est, 
et  quasi  per  sententias  loquens”  ( Prerf.  ad  XII.  Proph.). 
Augustine  thus  criticises  him:  “Osea  quanto profundius 
loquitur,  tanto  operosius  penetratur.”  Ilis  style,  says 
De  Wette,  “is  abrupt,  unrounded,  and  ebullient;  his 
rhythm  hard,  leaping,  and  violent.  The  language  is  pe- 
culiar and  difficidt”  ( Einleitung , § 228).  Lowth  (I ’ree- 
lect. 21)  speaks  of  him  as  the  most  difficult  and  perplex- 
ed of  the  prophets.  Bishop  Horsley  has  remarked  his 
peculiar  idioms — his  change  of  person,  anomalies  of  gen- 
der and  number,  and  use  of  the  nominative  absolute 
(lUorfor,  vol.  iii).  Eichhorn’s  description  of  his  style 
was  probably  at  the  same  time  meant  as  an  imitation 
of  it  ( Einleitung , § 555) : “ His  discourse  is  like  a garland 
woven  of  a multiplicity  of  flowers : images  are  woven 
upon  images,  comparison  wound  upon  comparison,  met- 


aphor strung  upon  metaphor.  lie  plucks  one  flower, 
and  throws  it  down  that  he  may  directly  break  olf  an- 
other. Like  a bee,  he  flies  from  one  flower-bed  to  an- 
other, that  he  may  suck  his  honey  from  the  most  varied 
pieces.  It  is  a natural  consequence  that  Ins  figures 
sometimes  form  strings  of  pearls.  Often  he  is  prone  to 
approach  to  allegory — often  he  sinks  down  in  obscurity” 
(compare  v,  9;  vi,  3;  vii,  8;  xiii,3,  7,  8,  lfi).  Obscure 
brevity  seems  to  be  the  characteristic  quality  of  Ilosea ; 
and  all  commentators  agree  that,  “ of  all  the  prophets,  he 
is,  in  point  of  language,  the  most  obscure  and  hard  to 
be  understood”  (Henderson,  Minor  Prophets,  p.  2).  Un- 
usual words  and  forms  of  connection  sometimes  occur 
(De  Wette,  § 228;  see  also  Davidson,  in  Horne,  ii,  945). 

9.  Citation  in  the  N.  T. — Ilosea,  as  a prophet,  is  ex- 
pressly quoted  by  Matthew  (ii,  1 5).  The  citation  is  from 
the  first  verse  of  chap.  xi.  Ilos.  vi,  fi  is  quoted  twice  by 
the  same  evangelist  (ix,  13;  xii,7).  Other  quotations 
and  references  are  the  following:  Luke  xxiii,30;  Rev.  vi, 
IG;  Ilos.  x,  8; — Rom.  ix,  25, 2(5;  1 Ret.  ii,  10;  Ilos.  i,  10; 
ii, 23; — 1 Cor.xv,4;  IIos.vi,2;  Heb.xiii,  15;  Ilos.  xiv, 
2.  Messianic  references  are  not  clearly  and  prominently 
developed  (Gramberg,  Ileligionsid.  ii,  298).  This  book, 
however,  is  not  without  them,  but  they*  lie  more  in  the 
spirit  of  its  allusions  than  in  the  letter.  Ilosea’s  Cliris- 
tology  appears  written,  not  with  ink,  but  with  the  spirit 
of  the  living  God,  on  the  fleshly  tables  of  his  heart. 
The  future  conversion  of  his  people  to  the  Lord  their 
God,  and  David  their  king,  their  glorious  privilege  in 
becoming  sons  of  the  living  God,  the  faithfulness  of  the 
original  promise  to  Abraham,  that  the  number  of  his 
spiritual  seed  should  be  as  the  sand  of  the  sea,  are  among 
the  oracles  whose  fulfilment  will  take  place  only  under 
the  new  dispensation. — Kitto;  Smith. 

10.  Commentaries. — The  following  are  the  cxegetical 
helps  on  the  whole  book  of  Ilosea  separately,  and  the 
most  important  arc  designated  by  an  asterisk  (*)  prefix- 
ed: Origen,  Selecta  (in  Opp.  iii, 438) ; Ephrai  m Syrus,  Kx- 
planalio  (in  Opp.  v,  234) ; Rcmigius  Antissod.,  Comrnen- 
tarius  [fragment]  (in  Mai,  Script.  Yet.  AT,  ii,  103);  Jar- 
chi,  Aben-Ezra,  anil  Kimchi,  Scholia  (ed.  with  Notes,  by 
Coddreus,  L.  B.  1G23, 4to;  by  De  Dieu,  ib.  1G3],  4to ; also 
extracts,  with  additions,  by  Yon  der  Ilardt,  Helmst.  1702, 
4to  [with  a historical  Introd.  ib,  eod.]  ; and  by  Mercer, 
Gen.  1574, 1578;  L.  B.  1G21, 4to;  and  [including  several 
other  minor  prophets]  Gen.  15. .,  fol.;  Giess.  1595,  4to; 
Gotting.  1755,  4to);  Abrabanel,  Comment,  (in  Lat.  with 
notes,  by  E.al-IIusen,  L.  B.  1(587,  4to);  Luther,  Puar ra- 
tio (Yitemb.  152G,  1545;  Frcft.  154G,  8vo;  also  in  Opp. 
iv,  598;  also  Sententiee,  ib.  GN4);  Capito,  Commentarins 
(Argent.  1528,  8vo);  Quinquarboreus,  Xoten  [including 
Amos,  Ruth,  and  Lam.]  (Par.  155G,  4to);  IJrentz,  Com- 
mentarius  (Hag.  15G0,  4to;  Tub.  1580,  fob;  also  in  Opp, 
iv);  Box,  Commeutaria  (Cajsaraug.  1581, fob ; Yen.  1585, 
4to ; Lugd.  1587,  8vo;  improved  edition  by  Gvrel,  Brix. 
1 G04, 4to)  ; De  Castro,  Commentaria  (Samant.  1 58(5,  fob) ; 
Yavassor,  Commentarins  (in  Opp.  Yitemb.  iv,  348;  Jen. 
iv,  7G4);  Matthams,  Pralectiones  (Basil.  1590,  4to);  I’o- 
lansdorf,  Analgsis  (Basil.  1599,  4to ; lG01,8vo);  Zanehi- 
us,  Commentarins  (Neost.  1G00,  4to;  also  in  Opp.  v); 
Gesner,  Illnst ratio  (Yitemb.  1G01,  1614,  8vo);  I’areus, 
Commentarins  (Heidelberg,  1G05,  1G09,  4to):  Downame, 
Lectures  [on.  cli.  i-iv]  (bond.  1G08,  4to);  Cocci  i us,  II- 
lustratio  (in  Opp.  xi,  591);  Kraekewitz,  Commentarins 
(Francof.  1G19,  4to);  Meisner,  Commenfarius  (Yitemb. 
1G20, 8vo)  ; Bivetus,  Commentarins  (L.  B.  lG25,4to;  also 
in  Opp.  ii,  488);  * Burroughs,  Lectures  [chapter  xiv  by 
Sibbs  and  Reynolds]  (Loud.  1643  52,  4 vols.  4to;  Loud. 
1843, 8vo);  Lightfoot,  Expositio  (in  lUo/Zs,  ii,  423) ; Ur- 
sinus,  Commentarins  (Norib.  1G77,  8vo) ; *I’ocock,  Com- 
mentary (Oxon.  1085,  fob;  also  in  I Co ii,  1);  *Seb. 
Schmid,  Commentarins  (F.  ad  51. 1G87,  4to) : Biermann, 
Ontleding  (LTtrecht,  1702,  4to);  Wacke,  Expositio  (Rat- 
isb.  1711, 8vo) ; Griiff.  Preeligten  (Dresd.  1716, 4to)  ; Kro- 
mayer,  Specimen,  etc.  [including  Joel  and  Amos]  (Amst. 
1730,  8vo) ; Terne,  Erlddmng  (part  i,  Jen.  1740:  ii.  Ei- 
senb.  1748,  8vo);  Klemmius,  Xoten  (Tubing.  1744,  4to) ; 


HOSEUST 


356 


HOSHEA 


Dathe,  Dissertatio  [on  Aquila’s  vers,  of  H.]  (Lips.  1757 ; ' 
also  in  Opusc.  Lips.  175G) ; Happach,  Exposi/io  [on  cer- 
tain passages]  (Gobi.  17G6  sq.,  8vo);  Struensee,  Uebers. 
(Frankf.  and  Lpz.  17G9,8vo);  Neale,  Commentary  (Loud. 
1771,  8vo);  Michaelis,  Chaldaica  [Jonathan’s  Targum] 
(Gott.  1775, 4to) ; Stiitidlin,  Erliiut.  (in  his  Beitr.  1 sq.) ; 
Enren,  Examen  [of  var.  readings]  (i,  Upsal.  1782;  ii,  ib. 
178G ; also  in  Aurivellii,  Dissert,  p.  594) ; Schrber,  Er- 
ldut. (Dessau,  1782,  8vo) ; Manger,  Comnientarius  (Cam- 
pis,  1782,  4to) ; Pfeiffer.  Uebers.  (Erlangen,  1785,  8vo); 
Uhland,  A nnotationes  (in  xii  pts.  Tubing.  1785-97,  4to) ; ( 
Yolborth,  Erkldrung  (part  i,  Gott.  1787,  8vo);  Kuinol, 
Erlauterung  (Leips.  1789,  8vo;  also  in  Latin,  ibid.  1792, 
8vo) ; Poos,  Observations  [on  difficult  passages]  (Er- 
lang. 1780,  4to);  Yaupel,  Erklar.  (Dresden,  1793,  8vo) ; 
* Horsley,  Xotes  (Lond.  1801, 1804,  4to ; also  in  Bib.  Crit. 
ii,  134);  Philippson,  Comment i mug  [in clud.  Joel]  (Des- 
sau, 1805,  8vo;  also  in  his  Israelitische  Bibel) ; Bbckel, 
Erldut.  (Konigsb.  1807, 8vo) ; Gaab,  Dijudicatio  [on  the 
vers,  of  H.  in  the  Lond.  Polyglot]  (in  2 pts.  Tub.  1812, 
4to) ; Rosenmliller,  Scholia  (part  7,  vol.  i,  1827,  8vo) ; 
Goldwitzer,  -I  nmerk.  (Landsh.  1828, 8vo);  *Stuck,  Com- 
mentarius  (Lips.  1828,  8vo) ; Schroder,  Erldut.  [vol.  i of 
min.  propli..  includ.  Hosea,  Joel,  and  Amos]  (Lpz.  1829, 
8vo) ; De  Wette,  Ueber  d.  gesrhl.  Beziehung , etc.  (in  the 
Tluol.  Stud.  u.  Krit.  1831,  p.  807) ; Mrs.  Best,  Dialogues 
(Lond.  1831, 12mo) ; Iledslob,  Die  Integritdt,  etc.  [of  vii, 
4-10]  (Hamb.  1842, 8vo);  *Simson,  Erklar.  (Hamb.  1851, 
8vo);  Drake,  Xotes  [includ.  Jonah]  (Lond.  1853, 8 vo;  also 
Sermons  [includ.  also  Amos],  ib.  ed.  8vo);  Kurtz,  Ehe 
d.  II.  (Dorpat.  1859,  8vo) ; Kara,  (Breslau,  18G1, 

4to) ; Wiinsehc,  Auslegung  [Rabbinical]  (Lpz.  1868  sq. 
8vo) ; Bassett,  Translation  (London,  1869,  8vo).  See 
Prophets,  Minor. 

4,  5.  IIosiiea  (q.  v.). 

Hosein.  See  Hocein. 

Hosen.  See  Hose. 

Hoskai'ah  (Heb.  Hoshagah',  whom  Je- 

hovah delivers ; Sept,  ’De rata,  but  identifies  those  named 
in  Jer.  xlii,  1 : xliii,  2,  yet  changes  in  both  passages  to 
Mancra/af,*;  Yulg.  Osajas),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  The  father  of  Jehazaniah,  which  latter  besought 
Jeremiah  to  favor  the  flight  of  the  remnant  of  the  Jews 
into  Egypt  (Jer.  xlii,  1).  He  is  apparently  the  same 
with  the  father  of  Azariah,  which  latter  is  mentioned  as 
rejecting  the  advice  of  Jeremiah  after  he  had  thus  so- 
licited it  (Jer.  xliii,  2).  B.C.  587. 

2.  One  who  headed  the  procession  of  the  chief  men 
of  Judah  along  the  southern  section  of  the  newly-rebuilt 
walls  of  Jerusalem  (Neh.  xii,  32).  B.C.  446. 

Hosha'ma  [many  Hosh'ama']  (Heb.  Iloshama', 
whom  Jehovah  hears ; Sept.  ’Qaagib  v.  r.  ’Qrra- 
fictS  and  ’l  10  era  gib),  one  of  the  sons  of  king  Jelioiachin, 
born  during  his  captivity  (1  Chron.  iii,  18).  B.C.  post 
598.  (See  Strong’s  Harm,  and  Expos,  of  the  Gospels,  p. 
17.)  See  Jehoiachin. 

Hoshe'a,  (Heb.  the  same  name  as  “ Hosea,”  q.  v.), 
the  name  of  several  persons. 

1.  The  original  name  (Deut.  xxxii,  44,  Sept.  Ti/eroue, 
Yulg.  Josue ; A.Y.  in  Numb,  xiii,  8, 16,  “Oshea,”  Sept. 
Auai],  Yulg.  Osee)  of  the  son  of  Nun,  afterwards  called 
Joshua  (q.  v.),  by  the  more  distinct  recognition  of  the 
divine  name  Jah. 

2.  (Sept.  'Dcr//;  Yulg.  Osee).  A son  of  Azariah  in 
the  time  of  David ; also  an  Ephraimite  and  prince  of 
his  people  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  20).  B.C.  1014. 

3.  The  prophet  Hosea  (q.  v.). 

4.  ITosiiea  (Sept.  ’Qage,  Yulg.  Osee),  the  son  of 
Elah,  and  last  king  of  Israel.  I11  the  twentieth  (post- 
humous) year  of  Jotham  (2  Kings  xv,  30),  i.  e.  B.C. 
737-6,  he  conspired  against  and  slew  his  predecessor  Pe-  I 
kah,  thereby  fulfilling  a prophecy  of  Isaiah  (Isa.  vii,  1G). 
Although  Josephus  calls  Hoshea  a friend  of  Pekah  (0/-  | 
Xov  Tivdg  tTnfiovXfvaavrog  avrrg,  Ant.  ix,  13,  1),  we 
have  no  ground  for  calling  this  “ a treacherous  murder”  , 


(Prideaux,  i,  16).  But  he  did  not  become  established 
on  the  throne  he  had  thus  usurped  till  after  an  interreg- 
num of  warfare  for  eight  years,  namely,  in  the  twelfth 
year  of  Ahaz  (2  Kings  xvii,  1),  i.  e.  B.C.  729-8.  “ He 

did  evil  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,”  but  not  in  the  same 
degree  as  his  predecessors  (2  Kings  xvii,  2).  According 
to  the  Rabbis,  this  superiority  consisted  in  his  removing 
from  the  frontier  cities  the  guards  placed  there  by  his 
predecessors  to  prevent  their  subjects  from  worshipping 
at  Jerusalem  ( Seder  Olam  Rabba,  cap.  22,  quoted  by 
Prideaux,  i,  1G),  and  in  his  not  hindering  the  Israelites 
from  accepting  the  invitation  of  Hezekiah  (2  Chron. 

xxx,  10),  nor  checking  their  zeal  against  idolatry  (id. 

xxxi,  1).  The  compulsory  cessation  of  the  calf-worship 
may  have  removed  his  greatest  temptation,  for  Tiglath- 
Pileser  had  carried  off  the  golden  calf  from  Dan  some 
years  before  (Sed.  Ol.  Rab.  22),  and  that  at  Bethel  was 
taken  away  by  Shalmaneser  in  his  first  invasion  (2 
Kings  xvii,  3 ; Hos.  x,  14).  Shortly  after  his  accession 
(B.C.  728)  he  submitted  to  the  supremacy  of  Shalmane- 
ser, who  appears  to  have  entered  his  territory  with  the 
intention  of  subduing  it  by  force  if  resisted  (2  Kings 
xv'ii,  3),  and,  indeed,  seems  to  have  stormed  the  strong 
caves  of  Beth-arbel  (Hos.  x,  14),  but  who  retired  paci- 
fied with  a present.  This  peaceable  temper,  however, 
appears  not  to  have  continued  long.  The  intelligence 
that  Hosea,  encouraged  perhaps  by  the  revolt  of  Heze- 
kiah, had  entered  into  a confederacy  with  So,  king  of 
Egypt,  with  the  view  of  shaking  off  the  Assyrian  yoke, 
caused  Shalmaneser  to  return  and  punish  the  rebellious 
king  of  Israel  by  imprisonment  for  withholding  the  trib- 
ute for  several  years  exacted  from  his  country  (2  Kings 
xvii,  4),  B.C.  cir.  725.  lie  appears  to  have  been  again 
released,  probably  appeasing  the  conqueror  by  a large 
ransom ; but  a second  relapse  into  revolt  soon  afterwards 
provoked  the  king  of  Assyria  to  march  an  army  into  the 
land  of  Israel,  B.C.  723;  and  after  a three-years’  siege 
Samaria  was  taken  and  destroyed,  and  the  ten  tribes 
were  sent  into  the  countries  beyond  the  Euphrates,  B.C. 
720  (2  Kings  xvii,  5,  G;  xviii,  9-12).  The  king  no 
doubt  perished  in  the  sack  of  the  city  by  the  enraged 
victor,  or  was  only  spared  for  the  torture  of  an  Assyrian 
triumph.  He  was  apareutly  treated  with  the  utmost 
indignity  (Mic.  v,  1).  That  he  disappeared  very  sud- 
denly, like  “foam  upon  the  water,”  we  may  infer  from 
Hos.  xiii,  11 ; x,  7.  His  name  occurs  on  the  Assyrian 
monuments.  The  length  of  the  siege  was  owing  to  the 
fact  that  this  “glorious  and  beautiful”  city  was  strongly 
situated,  like  “ a crown  of  pride”  among  her  hills  (Isa. 
xxviii,  1-5).  During  the  course  of  the  siege  Shalma- 
neser must  have  died,  for  it  is  certain  that  Samaria  was 
taken  by  his  successor  Sargon,  who  thus  laconically  de- 
scribes the  event  in  his  annals:  “Samaria  I looked  at,  I 
captured;  27,280  men  (families?)  who  dwelt  in  it  I car- 
ried away.  I constructed  fifty  chariots  in  their  country 
....  I appointed  a governor  over  them,  and  continued 
upon  them  the  tribute  of  the  former  people”  (Botta,  p. 
145, 11,  quoted  by  Dr.  Hincks,  Jonni.  of  Sacr.  Lit.  Oct. 
1858 ; Layard,  Xin.  and  Bab.  i,  148).  For  an  account  of 
the  subsequent  fortunes  of  the  unhappy  Ephraimites, 
the  places  to  which  they  were  transplanted  by  the  policy 
of  their  conqueror  and  his  officer,  “ the  great  and  noble 
Asnapper”  (Ezra  iv,  10),  and  the  nations  by  which  they 
were  superseded,  see  Samaria.  Hoshea  came  to  the 
throne  too  late,  and  governed  a kingdom  torn  to  pieces 
by  foreign  invasion  and  intestine  broils.  Sovereign 
after  sovereign  had  fallen  by  the  dagger  of  the  assassin ; 
and  we  see  from  the  dark  and  terrible  delineations  of 
the  contemporary  prophets  [see  Hosea;  Micah;  Isa- 
iah] that  murder  and  idolatry,  drunkenness  and  lust, 
had  eaten  like  “an  incurable  wound”  (Mic. i, 9)  into  the 
inmost  heart  of  the  national  morality.  Ephraim  was 
dogged  to  its  ruin  by  the  apostate  policy  of  the  rene- 
gade wTho  had  asserted  its  independence  (2  Kings  xvii ; 
Joseph.  A nt.  ix,  14 ; Prideaux,  i,  15  sq. ; Keil,  On  Kings , 
ii,  50  sq.,  English  ed. ; Jahn,  Hebr.  Com.  § xl ; Ewald, 
Gesch.  iii,  607-G13;  Rosenmliller,  Bibl.  Geogr.  chap,  ix, 


IIOSIUS 


357 


HOSPINIAN 


English  trails!.;  Rawlinson,  Herod,  i,  149). — Smith.  See 
Israel,  Kingdom  of. 

5.  IIosiiea  (Sept.  'i2ff?/£,Vnlg.  Osee),  one  of  the  chief 
Israelites  who  joined  in  the  saered  covenant  after  the 
Captivity  (Nell,  x,  23).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

Hosins  or  O silts  (''Omoe,  the  saint),  an  early  Chris- 
tian bishop,  was  born  probably  about  A.I).  256.  It  is 
doubtful  whether  he  was  a native  of  Spain,  but  he  was 
bishop  of  the  see  of  Cordova,  Spain,  for  some  sixty 
years.  He  was  a particular  favorite  of  the  emperor  Con-  ! 
stantine,  who  is  said  to  have  been  converted  to  Chris-  i 
tianity  under  the  instrumentality  of  llosius,  by  offering 
him,  as  an  inducement,  the  remission  of  his  sins,  a satis- 
faction which  the  heathen  priests  were  unable  to  grant. 
He  was  present  at  the  Council  held  at  Eliberi  or  Elvira  (q. 

v. ),  near  Granada  (305  or  30G),  and  suffered  for  his  faith 
(confessus  sutn,  as  he  says  in  his  letter  to  Constantine) 
during  the  persecutions  of  Diocletian  and  Maximianus. 
In  324  Constantine  sent  him  to  Alexandria,  to  settle  the 
dispute  between  Alexander  and  Arius,  also  the  troubles 
which  had  arisen  concerning  the  observance  of  the  East- 
er festival.  He  failed  in  this  mission,  but  still  remained 
in  favor  with  the  emperor.  He  took  part  in  the  Coun- 
cil of  Nice  (325),  where  Baronius  claims  that.  Hosius  at- 
tended as  legate  of  the  pope;  but  this  is  not  generally 
conceded  even  by  Homan  Catholic  historians.  Hosius’s 
signature  is  the  first  amongst  the  subscriptions  to  the 
acts  of  this  council,  lie  pronounced  (UZsdero)  or  drew 
up.  (according  to  Tillemont)  the  symbol  or  confession  of 
faith  of  Nice.  In  347  he  presided*  at  the  Council  of  Sar- 
dica,  called  by  order  of  the  emperors  Constantins  and 
Constans  at  the  request  of  Athanasius.  In  355  Con- 
stantins desired  him  to  take  part  in  the  condemnation 
of  Athanasius,  but  Hosius  replied  by  a letter,  recalling 
all  he  had  suffered  on  behalf  of  the  faith,  and  closing 
with  an  earnest  defense  of  Athanasius.  A second  at- 
tempt of  Constantius,  who  called  him  to  Milan,  met  with 
the  same  opposition,  and  likewise  a third,  Hosius,  who 
was  then  nearly  a hundred  years  old,  still  refusing  to  con- 
demn Athanasius.  This  decided  stand  in  favor  of  Ath- 
anasius finally  caused  Hosius’s  banishment  in  355.  At 
length,  worn  out  by  imprisonment,  he  consented  to  give 
countenance  to  Arianism  in  a formula  which  was  pre- 
sented to  the  Synod  of  Sirniium  (357).  He  was  per- 
mitted to  return  again  to  his  see,  where  he  died  in  359. 
Athanasius  and  Augustine  praise  his  virtues  and  excuse 
his  weakness.  See  Athanasius,  Hist.  A rian.  ad Monach. 
c.  42,  44 ; Augustine,  Coni.  Epistolam  Permeniani,  i,  7 ; 
Eusebius,  lie  Yit.  Constantini,  ii,03 ; iii,7;  Socrates,  Hist. 
Eccl.  i,  7,  8 ; ii,  20,  29,  31 ; Sozomen,  i,  10, 1G,  17 ; iii.  1 1 ; 
Tillemont,  Memoir es  pour  servir  ii  VI list.  Eccles.  vii,  300 ; 
Baronins,  .4  mi.  Eccles. ; Galland,  Biblioth.  Patrum,  vol.  v, 
Proleg.  c.  viii ; Hoefer,  Hour.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  209 ; 
Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  275  sq. ; Mosheim,  Ch.  Ilist. 
i,  245 ; Ilefele,  Conciliengesch.  i,  33  sq. ; Neander,  Church 
Hist,  ii,  154,  371,  398,  404;  Schaff,  Ch.  Hist,  iii,  G27,  G35 
sq. ; Schrbckh,  Kirchengesch.  v,  343  sq.,  349, 354  sq.,  364 ; 

vi,  83,  140;  Stanley, Eastern  Ch.  (see  Index);  Milman, 
Latin  Christianity,  i,  99, 101 ; Baur,  Dogmengesch.  i,  146 ; 
Riddle,  Hist,  of  the  Papacy , i,  127  sq.,  135, 140;  AVetzer 
und  Welle.  Kii’chen-Lex.  v,  33G  sq. ; Asehbach.  Kirchen- 
Lex.  iii,  331  sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Hosius,  Stanislaus,  a distinguished  Romish  the- 
ologian of  Poland,  of  German  origin,  was  born  at  Cracow 
May  5, 1504.  He  studied  at  Padua  and  Bologna,  and 
obtained,  on  his  return  to  Poland  in  1538,  a canonry. 
He  was  afterwards  made  secretary  to  the  king,  and,  in 
1549, -bishop  of  Culm.  He  was  intrusted  by  the  king 
with  important  missions  to  the  emperors  Charles  Y and 
Ferdinand  I,  and  as  a reward  for  his  services  was  made 
also  bishop  of  Ermeland.  Hosius  was  an  ardent  oppo- 
nent of  Luther,  and  having  written  the  Confessiocathol- 
iccefdei  (Mavence,  1551,  etc.)  in  opposition  to  the  Augs- 
burg Confession,  he  was  rewarded  with  a cardinal’s  hat. 
He  attended  the  Council  of  Trent  as  legate,  and  after- 
wards returned  to  Poland,  where  he  used  his  influence  j 
hi  favor  of  the  Jesuits,  and  in  1564,  to  prevent  the  spread  | 


of  Lutheranism,  he  established  the  College  of  Brauns- 
berg,  called  after  him  Collegium  Hosiamm , and  still 
existing  with  the  two  facilities  of  theology  and  philoso- 
phy. He  afterwards  made  a journey  to  Rome  for  the 
purpose  of  settling  some  questions  of  importance  to  the 
Polish  Church,  but  was  detained  by  pope  Gregory  XIII, 
who  received  him  with  the  highest  honors.  lie  died  at 
Caprarola  Aug.  15, 1579.  A collection  of  his  works  has 
been  published  under  the  title  Opera  omnia  (Col.  1584, 
2 vols.  folio).  It  contains  Be  Communione  sub  utraqve 
> Specie ; Be  Sacerdotum  conjugio ; Be  Missa  rulgari 
lingua  celebranda,  etc.  See  Father  Paid,  History  of  the 
Council  of  Trent ; Ivrasinski,  Ref.  in  Poland  (London, 
1840,  2 vols.)  ; Ch.  Ilist.  13th  Cent.  p.  213;  Ranke,  1 list, 
of  the  Popes,  ii,  82;  Mosheim,  Church  Hist,  iii,  98 ; Bayle, 
ilist.  Bid.  iii,  499  sq. ; Wetzer  und  AVelte,  Kirchen-Lex. 
v,  339  sq. ; Asehbach,  Kirch.-Lex.  iii,  333  sip ; Schrbckh, 
Kirchengesch.  s.  d.  Reform.  ii,G95;  Palavicini,  Hist.  Con- 
di H Trident,  lib.  ii,  ch.  iv;  Ersch  u.  Gruber,  A Ug.  Encyld.; 
Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  210 ; Eiehhorn,  Bcr 
Bischof  Stan.  Hosius  (Mainz,  1814-55,  2 vols.). 

Hospice,  the  name  by  which  are  known  the  pious 
establishments  kept  up  by  monks  on  some  of  the  Alpine 
passes,  to  afford  assistance  and  shelter  to  travellers.  The 
first  of  these  established  was  that  situated  on  the  Great 
St.  Bernard,  of  which  the  priests  of  the  canton  of  Valais 
obtained  possession  in  1825.  Another  hospice  existed 
on  St.  Got  hard  as  early  as  the  13th  century.  This  es- 
tablishment the  monks  have  left,  and  it  is  now  occu- 
pied by  a “ hospitaller,”  who  entertains  travellers  gratis. 
Hospices  are  also  found  on  Mount  Cenis,  the  Simplon, 
and  the  Little  St.  Bernard. — Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  432. 
See  Hospitals. 

Hospinian,  Rudolph,  a Swiss  Protestant  theo- 
logian, was  born  at  Altdorf,  near  Zurich,  Nov.  7,  1547, 
of  a family  several  members  of  which  had  been  martyrs 
of  the  Reformation.  Rudolph  was  brought  up  by  his 
uncle,  and  studied  theology  at  the  universities  of  Mar- 
burg and  Heidelberg.  After  his  return  to  Zurich  in 
1568  he  began  to  preach,  and  became  successively  rector 
in  1576,  archdeacon  in  1588,  and  pastor  of  the  church 
of  the  Abbey  in  1594.  He  died  March  11,  1626.  IIos- 
pinian  is  especially  distinguished  as  a writer,  and  most 
of  his  works  are  of  a polemic  character,  against  the 
Romish  Church,  inquiring  into  the  cultus  and  consti- 
tution of  that  Church.  The  first  of  them  was  his  Be 
origine  et  progressn  Rituum  et  Ccremoniannn  Ecclesias- 
ticarum  (1585).  Two  years  after  he  published  Be  Tern - 
plis  hoc  est  de  origine, progressn,  ttsu  et  ubusu  templorum, 
ac  omnino  rerum  omnium  ad  templet  pertinentium  (Zur. 
1587,  fob;  enlarged  edition,  1G02,  fob).  His  Be  Mona- 
chis,  sen  de  origine  et  progressn  Monachcitus  ac  Ordinum 
Monasticorum,  Equitum  militarium  turn  sacrorum  quam 
seecularium  omnium  was  published  at  Zurich  (1588),  and 
reprinted,  with  additions,  as  an  answer  to  Bellarmine’s 
Be  Monachis  (Zurich,  1609,  folio):  — Be  Eestis  Chris- 
tianorum,  hoc  est  de  origine,  progressu,  ceenmouiis  et  riti - 
bus  festorum  dierum  Christianorum  Liber  units,  etc.  (Zur. 
1592-3,  2 vols.  fob;  augmented,  ib.  1612,  foL)  ; the  ad- 
ditions to  the  second  edition  are  in  answer  to  the  objec- 
tions of  cardinal  Bellarmine  and  of  the  Jesuit  Gretscr: — 
Be  Festis  Judceorum,  et  Ethnicorum,  Libri  tres  (Zurich, 
1592,  fob;  2d  edit.,  augmented,  Zurich,  1611,  fob) : — Be 
Origine  et,  Progressu  Controversies  Sacrament  a rite  de 
Cana  Bomini  inter  Lutheranos,  Vbiquistas  et  Orthodoxos 
quos  Zuing/ianos  sell  Calvinistas  rocant  (Zur.  1602,  fob) : 
the  Lutherans  are  strongly  attacked  hv  Hospinian  in 
the  work: — Sacra  Scriptura >,  orthodoxis  symbol  is,  toti 
antiquitati  puriori,  et  ipsi  etiam  A ugustance  Confessioni 
repugnantia,  etc.  (Zurich,  1G09,  folio).  This  work  gave 
rise  to  great  controversy.  Frederick  IV,  elector  of  the 
Palatinate,  blamed  Hospinian  strongly,  and  Leonard 
Hutter  answered  this  and  the  preceding  work  in  bis 
Concordia  Concors  (AA'ittemb.  1614,  folio).  Hospinian 
intended  to  answer  Hutter,  but  gave  up  the  idea  lest  he 
should  displease  the  Protestant  princes  and  embitter  the 
controversy,  which  was  very  agreeable  to  the  Roman 


HOSPITAL 


358 


HOSPITALITY 


Catholic  party: — Ilistoria  Jesuitica  (Zurich,  1619,  fol.), 
a very  valuable  work: — An  Anima  sit  in  toto  corpore 
simult  De  lmmortalitate  (jus  (Zurich,  1586,  4to).  A 
complete  edition  of  Hospiuian’s  works  was  published  by 
J.  II . Heidegger  at  Geneva  (1669-81,  7 vols.  fob),  con- 
taining a full  memoir.  See  Fabricius,  Ilistoria  Bill.  pt. 
i,  p.349,  350;  pt.  ii,p.  510,  511 ; pt.  iii,  p.  87, 88;  Dupin, 
Bibl.  <Jes  A uteurs  separes  de  la  communion  Romaine,  etc. 
(Paris,  1718);  Pierer,  Unicersal-Lexikon , s.  v. ; Herzog, 
Real-Eneyklop.  s.  v. ; Iloefer,  Xour.  Biog.  Gene  rale,  xxv, 
21 1 : IJayle,  Historical  Diet,  iii,  502;  Darling,  Encycloj). 
Bibliog.  vol.  i.  See  H utter.  (J.  X.  P.) 

Hospital,  Michael  de  L’.  See  Hopital. 

Hospitality  (<t>i\o£tvia).  ..The  practice  of  receiv- 
ing strangers  into  one’s  house  and  giving  them  suitable 
entertainment  may  be  traced  back  to  the  early  origin 
of  human  society.  It  was  practiced,  as  it  still  is,  among 
the  least  cultivated  nations  (Diod.  Sic.  v,  28, 34;  Caesar, 
Beil.  Gall,  vi,  23 ; Tacit.  Germ.  21).  It  was  not  less  ob- 
served, in  the  early  periods  of  their  history,  among  the 
Greeks  and  Homans.  With  the  Greeks,  hospitality  (£e- 
via)  was  under  the  immediate  protection  of  religion. 
Jupiter  bore  a name  ($eviog)  signifying  that  its  rights 
were  under  his  guardianship.  In  the  Odyssey  (vi,  206) 
we  are  told  expressly  that  all  guests  and  poor  people  are 
special  objects  of  care  to  the  gods.  There  were,  both  in 
Greece  and  Italy,  two  kinds  of  hospitality,  the  one  pri- 
vate, the  other  public  (see  Smith’s  Diet,  of  Class.  Antiq. 
s.  v.  Hospitium).  The  first  existed  between  individu- 
als, the  second  was  cultivated  by  one  state  towards  an- 
other. Hence  arose  a new  kind  of  social  relation : be- 
tween those  who  had  exercised  and  partaken  of  the  rites 
of  hospitality  an  intimate  friendship  ensued,  which  was 
called  into  play  whenever  the  individuals  might  after- 
wards chance  to  meet,  and  the  right,  duties,  aud  advan- 
tages of  which  passed  from  father  to  son,  and  were  de- 
servedly held  in  the  highest  estimation  (Potter’s  Greek 
Antiquities,  ii,  722  sq.). 

But,  though  uot  peculiarly  Oriental,  hospitality  has 
nowhere  been  more  early  or  more  fully  practiced  than 
in  the  East.  It  is  still  honorably  observed  among  the 
Arabs,  especially  at  the  present  day.  (See  Niebuhr, 
Arabia,  p.  40 ; Burckhardt,  i,  331,  459 ; ii,  651,  739 ; Jau- 
bert,  Trav.  p.  43 ; Russel’s  A leppo,  i,  328;  Buckingham's 
J Iesopot.  p.  23;  Robinson’s  Researches , ii,  331,  335,  603; 
Prokesch,  Erinn.  ii,  245 ; Harmer,  ii,  114;  Selitdtens,  Ex- 
cerpt. p.  408,  424,  454,  462 ; Layard’s  Xinereh,  2d  ser.  p. 
317  sq. ; Ilackett’s  III.  of  Script,  p.  64  sq.)  An  Arab,  on 
arriving  at  a village,  dismounts  at  the  house  of  some 
one  who  is  known  to  him,  saying  to  the  master,  “I  am 
your  guest.”  On  this  the  host  receives  the  traveller, 
and  performs  his  duties,  that  is,  he  sets  before  his  guest 
his  supper,  consisting  of  bread,  milk,  and  borgul,  and, 
if  he  is  rich  and  generous,  he  also  takes  the  necessary 
care  of  his  horse  or  beast  of  burden.  Should  the  trav- 
eller be  unacquainted  with  any  person,  he  alights  at  any 
house,  as  it  may  happen,  fastens  his  horse  to  the  same, 
and  proceeds  to  smoke  his  pipe  until  the  master  bids 
him  welcome,  and  offers  him  his  evening  meal.  In  the 
morning  the  traveller  pursues  his  journey,  making  no 
other  return  than  “ God  be  with  you”  (good-hy)  (Nie- 
buhr, Reis,  ii,  431, 462 ; D’Arvieux,  iii,  152 ; Burckhardt, 
i,  69 ; Rosemniiller,  Morgenl.  vi,  82,  257).  The  early  ex- 
istence and  lung  continuance  of  this  amiable  practice  in 
Oriental  countries  are  owing  to  the  fact  of  their  present- 
ing that  condition  of  things  which  necessitates  and  calls 
forth  hospitality.  When  population  is  thinly  scattered 
over  a great  extent  of  country,  and  travelling  is  com- 
paratively infrequent,  inns  or  places  of  public  accommo- 
dation are  not  found;  yet  the  traveller  needs  shelter, 
perhaps  succor  and  support.  Pity  prompts  the  dweller 
in  a house  or  tent  to  open  his  door  to  the  tired  way- 
farer, the  rather  because  its  master  has  had,  and  is  like- 
ly again  to  have,  need  of  similar  kindness.  The  duty 
has  its  immediate  pleasures  and  advantages,  for  the 
traveller  comes  full  of  news — false,  true,  wonderful ; and 
it  is  by  no  means  onerous,  since  visits  from  wayfarers 


are  not  very  frequent,  nor  are  the  needful  hospitalities 
costly.  In  later  periods,  when  population  had  greatly 
increased,  the  establishment  of  inns  (caravanserais)  di- 
minished, but  did  by  no  means  abolish  the  practice  (Jo- 
sephus, Ant.\,  1,2;  Luke  x,  34). 

Accordingly,  we  find  hospitality  practiced  and  held  in 
the  highest  estimation  at  the  earliest  periods  in  which 
the  Bible  speaks  of  human  society  (Gen.  xviii,  3 ; xix, 
2 ; xxiv,  25 ; Exod.  ii,  20 ; Judg.  xix,  16).  Express  pro- 
vision for  its  exercise  is  made  in  the  Mosaic  law  (Lev. 
xix,  33 ; Deut.  xiv,  29).  In  the  New  Testament  also  its 
observance  is  enjoined,  though  in  the  period  to  which 
its  books  refer  the  nature  and  extent  of  hospitality  would 
be  changed  with  the  change  that  society  had  undergone 
(1  Pet.  iv,  9;  1 Tim.  iii,  2;  Tit.  i,  8;  1 Tim,  v,  10;  Rom. 
xii,  13 ; Ileb.  xiii,  2).  The  reason  assigned  in  this  last 
passage  (see  Pfaff,  Diss.  de  Hospitalitate,  ad  loc.,  Tubing. 
1752),  “for  thereby  some  have  entertained  angels  un- 
awares,” is  illustrated  in  the  instances  of  Abraham  and 
Lot  (Gen.  xviii,  1-16;  xix,  1-3);  nor  is  it  without  a 
parallel  in  classical  literature ; for  the  religious  feeling 
which  in  Greece  was  connected  with  the  exercise  of 
hospitality  was  strengthened  by  the  belief  that  the  trav- 
eller might  be  some  god  in  disguise  (Homer,  Odyss.  xvii, 
484).  The  disposition  which  generally  prevailed  in  fa- 
vor of  the  practice  was  enhanced  by  the  fear  lest  those 
who  neglected  its  rites  should,  after  the  example  of  im- 
pious men,  be  subjected  by  the  divine  wrath  to  fright- 
ful punishments  (yElian,  Ammalia , xi,  19).  Even  the 
Jews,  in  “ the  latter  days,”  laid  very  great  stress  on  the 
obligation:  the  rewards  of  Paradise,  their  doctors  de- 
clared, were  his  who  spontaneously  exercised  hospitality 
(Schottgen,  Ilor.  Ileb.  i,  220;  Kvpe,  Observ.  Suer,  i,  129). 

The  guest,  whoever  lie  might  be,  was,  on  his  appear- 
ing, invited  into  the  house  or  tent  (Gen.  xix,  2;  Exod. 
ii,  20 ; Judg.  xiii,  15 ; xix,  21).  Courtesy  dictated  that 
no  improper  questions  should  be  put  to  him,  and  some 
daj's  elapsed  before  the  name  of  the  stranger  was  asked, 
or  what  object  he  had  in  view  in  his  journey  (Gen.  xxiv, 
33;  Odyss.  i,  123;  iii,  69;  Iliad,  vi,  175;  ix,  222;  Diod. 
Sic.  v,  28).  As  soon  as  he  arrived  he  was  furnished 
with  water  to  wash  his  feet  (Gen.  xviii,  4;  xix,  2;  1 
Tim.  v,  10;  Odyss.  iv,  49;  xvii,  88;  vi,  215);  received  a 
supply  of  needful  food  for  himself  and  his  beast  (Gen. 
xviii,  5;  xix,  3;  xxiv,  25;  Exod.  ii,  20;  Judg.  xix,  20; 
Odyss.  iii,  464),  and  enjoyed  courtesy  and  protection 
from  his  host  (Gcu.  xix,  5 ; Josh,  ii,  2 ; J udg.  xix,  23). 
See  Salt,  Covenant  of.  The  case  of  Sisera,  decoyed 
and  slain  by  Jacl  (Judg.  iv,  18  sq.),  was  a gross  infrac- 
tion of  the  rights  and  duties  of  hospitality.  On  his  de- 
parture the  traveller  was  not  allowed  to  go  alone  or 
empty-handed  (Judg.  xix,  5 ; Waginseil,  ad  Sot.  p.  1020, 
1030;  Zom,  ad Hecat.  Abder.  22;  Iliad,  vi,  217).  This 
court esy  to  guests  even  in  some  Arab  tribes  goes  the 
length  (comp.  Gen.  xxi,  8;  Judg.  xix,  24)  of  sacrificing 
the  chastity  of  the  females  of  the  family  for  their  grati- 
fication (Lane,  Modem  Eg.  i,  443 ; Burckhardt,  Xotes  on 
the  Bedouins,  i,  179).  As  the  free  practice  of  hospital- 
ity was  held  right  and  honorable,  so  the  neglect  of  it 
was  considered  discreditable  (Job  xxxi,  32 ; Odyss.  xiv, 
56) ; and  any  interference  with  the  comfort  and  protec- 
tion which  the  host  afforded  was  treated  as  a wicked 
outrage  (Gen.  xix,  4 sq.).  Though  the  practice  of  hos- 
pitality was  general,  and  its  rites  rarely  violated,  .vet 
national  or  local  enmities  did  uot  fail  sometimes  to  in- 
terfere; and  accordingly  travellers  avoided  those  places 
in  which  they  had  reason  to  expect  an  unfriendly  recep- 
tion (compare  Judg.  xix,  12).  The  quarrel  which  arose 
between  the  Jews  and  Samaritans  after  the  Babylonian 
captivity  destroyed  the  relations  of  hospitality  between 
them.  Regarding  each  other  as  heretics,  they  sacrificed 
every  better  feeling  (see  John  iv,  9).  It  was  only  in  the 
greatest  extremity  that  the  Jews  would  partake  of  Sa- 
maritan food  (Lightfoot,  p.  993) ; and  they  were  accus- 
tomed, in  consequence  of  their  religious  and  political 
hatred,  to  avoid  passing  through  Samaria  in  journey- 
ing from  one  extremity  of  the  land  to  the  other.  The 


HOSPITALLERS 


359 


HOSPITALS 


animosity  of  the  Samaritans  towards  the  Jews  appears 
to  have  been  somewhat  less  bitter;  but  they  showed 
an  adverse  feeling  towards  those  persons  who,  in  go- 
ing up  to  the  annual  feast  at  Jerusalem,  had  to  pass 
through  their  country  (Luke  ix,  53).  At  the  great  na- 
tional festivals,  hospitality  was  liberally  practiced  as 
long  as  the  state  retained  its  identity.  On  these  festive 
occasions  no  inhabitant  of  Jerusalem  considered  his 
house  his  own;  every  home  swarmed  with  strangers; 
yet  this  unbounded  hospitality  could  not  find  accommo- 
dation in  the  houses  for  all  who  stood  in  need  of  it,  and 
a large  proportion  of  visitors  had  to  be  content  with 
such  shelter  as  tents  could  afford  (Helon,  Pilgrim,  i,  22k 
sq.).  The  primitive  Christians  considered  one  principal 
part  of  their  duty  to  consist  in  showing  hospitality  to 
strangers  (1  Pet.  iv,  9;  1 Tim.  iii,  2;  Tit.  i,  8;  compare 
Acts  ii,  44;  vi,  32,  35).  They  were,  in  fact,  so  ready  in 
discharging  this  duty  that  the  very  heathen  admired 
them  for  it.  They  were  hospitable  to  all  strangers,  but 
especially  to  those  of  the  household  of  faith  (see  Am- 
brose, De  Abmhamo,  v;  De  Ojfic.  ii,  21 ; iii,  7 ; Augus- 
tine, Kpist.  xxxviii,  n.  2;  Tertullian,  Apologet.  xxxix). 
Even  Lucian  praises  them  in  this  respect  (De  morte  per- 
egrin. ii,  p.  76G).  Believers  scarcely  ever  travelled  with- 
out letters  of  communion,  which  testified  the  purity  of 
their  faith,  and  procured  for  them  a favorable  reception 
wherever  the  name,  of  Jesus  Christ  was  known.  Calmet 
is  of  opinion  that  the  two  minor  epistles  of  John  may  be 
such  letters  of  communion  and  recommendation.  (On 
the  general  subject,  sec  Unger,  De  ZwocokUi  ejusqve  ritu 
antique >,  in  his  Annul,  de  Cingnlis , p.  31 1 sq. ; Stuck,  A n- 
tiq.  Convir.  i,  27 ; De  Wette,  Lehrbuch  der  Archaolngie ; 
Seholz,  llandb.  der  Dibl.  A rchaologie ; Deyling,  Obserr. 
i,  118  sq.;  Jalm,  A rchaologie,  I,  ii,  227  sq. ; Iviistcr,  />- 
Iduterung , § 202  sq. ; Laurent,  in  Gronov.  Thesaurus , ix, 
1 94  sq. ; Otho,  Lex.  Rabb.  283.) — Kitto.  See  Caravan  ; 
Entertainment  ; Guest. 

Hospitallers  is  the  name  generally  given  to  char- 
itable brotherhoods,  consisting  of  laymen,  monks,  chor- 
isters, and  knights  of  religious  orders,  who,  while  con- 
tinuing under  the  rules  and  exercises  of  conventual 
life  (chiefly  after  the  rule  of  St.  Augustine),  devoted 
themselves  to  the  care  of  the  poor  and  the  sick  in  the 
hospitals.  These  brotherhoods  were  founded  at  various 
times  and  in  different  countries.  They  added  to  the  or- 
dinary vows  of  poverty,  chastity,  and  obedience,  the  spe- 
cial vow  that  they  would  devote  themselves  to  this  work 
of  mercy.  The  hospitals  (q.  v.),  in  the  age  when  these 
were  instituted,  were  mostly  connected  with  monasteries, 
and  were  subject  to  the  bishops.  Oftentimes  the  care 
of  them  was  so  great  that  a special  officer  was  appointed, 
with  the  appellation  of  general,  and  the  officer  under  him 
as  intendant,  superior,  or  major.  Some  of  the  Hospital- 
ler brotherhoods,  however,  were  not  subject  to  the  bish- 
ops, but  only  to  the  pope,  as  the  Hospitallers  of  St. 
John  of  God,  also  called  the  Brethren  of  Love,  etc. 
As  an  order  of  spiritual  knights,  they  were  divided  into 
knights,  priests,  and  serving  brethren.  Among  them 
we  find  (I.)  The  Hospitallers  of  St.  Anthony  [see  An- 
thony, Orders  of],  founded  by  Gaston  in  consequence 
of  an  epidemic  known  as  St.  Anthony’s  fire.  (2.)  The 
Brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem.  See 
Malta,  Knights  of.  (3.)  The  Order  of  Teutonic 
Knights  (q.  v.).  (4.)  The  Brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  the 

Order  of  the  Holy  Ghost  [see  Holy  Ghost,  Orders  of], 
founded  by  Guido  at  Montpellier.  (5.)  The  Hospitallers 
of  Burgos , founded  in  1212.  (G.)  The  Hospitallers  of 

our  Lady  of  Christian  Charity  were  founded  near  Cha- 
lons in  the  end  of  the  13tli  century  by  Guy  de  Joinville; 
a like  order  was  founded  at  Paris  in  1294.  (7.)  The 

Hospitallers  of  our  Lady  Della  Scafa,  which,  according 
to  some,  authorities,  dates  as  far  back  as  the  9th  cen- 
tury, is  said  by  others  to  have  been  founded  about  this 
time  at  Sienna,  in  Italy.  (8.)  The  Hospitallers  of  the 
Order  of  St.John  of  God  (de  Dieu),  also  called  ‘‘Broth- 
ers of  Charity,”  etc.  See  Charity,  Brothers  of.  (9.) 
Of  the  Congregation  of  penitent  Brethren , founded  in 


Flanders  in  1615;  the  Hospitallers  of  the  Order  of  Beth- 
lehemites  (q.  v.),  in  1655 ; and  a number  of  congregations 
of  the  third  order  of  St.  Francis,  which  arose  in  the  14th 
century,  some  are  still  in  existence.  The  dress  of  the 
hospitallers  was  a black  robe  or  cloak,  on  the  breast  of 
which  was  worn  a white  cross,  with  eight  points,  which, 
according  to  their  statutes,  is  the  true  symbol  of  the.  vir- 
tues. Sec  Herzog,  Real-Eneyklopadie,  vi,  285;  Wttzer 
u.  Welte,  Kirchcn-Lex.  v,  345 ; Ilelyot,  Gesch.  d.  KlOsttr- 

u.  Ritterorden,  ii,  200  sq. ; iii,  86  sq.,  4G3  sq. ; Vertot,  Hist, 
des  Chevaliers  de  St.  Jean  de  Jerusalem  (Amst.  1732,  5 
vols.  8vo)  ; Schrdckh,  Kirehengesch.  xxv,  93  sq. ; Hard- 
wick, Hist,  of  the  Middle  Ages,  p.  255  sq.;  Kiddle,  Hist, 
of  the  Papacy , ii,  27 G ; M ilman’s  Gibbon,  Roman  Empire, 

v,  598  sq. ; Lea,  Ilistvr.  Saeerdot.  Celib.  p.  3G5  sq.,  475; 
New  Englander,  Aug.  1 85 1 , p.  388  sq.  See  J erusalem  ; 
Knigiits;  Tejiflars;  etc.  ' (J.  II.  W.) 

Hospitals,  so  called  from  the  mediaeval  hospitia,  are 
now  generally  understood  to  be  establishments  intend- 
ed for  the  reception  of  the  poor,  the  sick,  or  the  infirm, 
where  their  spiritual  and  temporal  wants  are  gratuitous- 
ly ministered  to.  Though  various  provisions  we  re  made 
for  the  poor  among  the  Greeks  and  Iiomans,  and  public 
largesses  were  distributed  in  many  ways,  hospitals  were 
unknown.  The  true  spirit  of  Christian  charity,  how- 
ever, considers  the  most  useless  and  abandoned  charac- 
ters as  most  in  need  of  assistance,  and  imitates  Christ 
in  bestowing  it  upon  them.  The  early  Christians  fed, 
not  only  their  own  poor,  but  also  those  of  the  heathen. 
Even  Julian  the  Apostate  praised  their  example  in  this 
respect.  As  soon  as  the  early  Christians  were  free  to 
practice  their  religion  openly,  they  commenced  build- 
ing charitable  institutions,  to  which  they  gave  vari- 
ous names,  according  to  the  character  of  their  in- 
mates : thus  they  had  the  Brepliotrophium,  or  infant 
asylum;  the  Orjdianotrophium,  or  orphan  asylum;  the 
Nosocomium,  or  sick  hospital;  the  Xenoelochium , or  re- 
treat for  strangers,  more  particularly  pilgrims.  The  lat- 
ter was  properly  the  hospital,  or  house  of  hospitality; 
and  in  monasteries,  that  part  of  them  which  was  re- 
served for  the  accommodation  of  visitors,  and  was  di- 
vided into  sections  according  to  the  classes  of  society 
to  which  the  visitors  belonged,  was  also  so  called  (Du 
Cange,  Gloss,  s.  v.  Hospitale).  These  hospitals  were 
soon  found  in  all  the  large  cities.  Epiphanius  says 
(Hceres.  75,  No.  1):  “The  bishops,  in  their  charity  to- 
wards strangers,  are  in  the  habit  of  establishing  institu- 
tions wherein  they  receive  the  maimed  and  the  sick, 
providing  them  with  such  accommodations  as  their 
means  will  allow.”  They  were  generally  in  charge  of 
the  clergy  (Constit.  A postal.  I,  iii,  c.  19),  though  rich  lay- 
men would  occasionally  erect  hospitals  also,  and  wait 
on  their  inmates  themselves,  as  did  Pammacliius  of  Por- 
to, and  Galliean  of  Ostia.  The  bishops  were  careful  to 
have  the  poor  properly  buried,  ransomed  the  prisoners 
of  war,  and  often  emancipated  slaves.  They  often  went 
so  far  as  to  sell  the  communion  service,  or  the  altar  or- 
naments, to  raise  the  means  of  accomplishing  these 
charitable  objects  (Mnurs  d<s  Chretiens,  § 51).  One  of 
the  most  famous  of  these  institutions  was  founded  at 
Caesarea  in  the  latter  half  of  the  4th  century.  The  next 
notable  institution  was  that  of  St.  Chrysostom,  built  at 
his  own  expense  at  Constantinople.  There  was  also  a 
very  fine  hospital  at  Borne,  which  was  built  by  Fabi<4a, 
a Koman  lady  and  friend  of  St.  Jerome,  who  himself 
likewise  built  one  at  Bethlehem.  The  inmates  of  the 
hospitals  in  the  early  Church,  very  much  like  the.  prac- 
tice of  our  own  day,  were  divided  according  to  sex.  The 
male  portion  was  placed  under  the  charge  of  a deacon, 
and  the  women  under  the  care  of  the  deaconesses,  who, 
according  to  Epiphanius  ( Exposit.fd . c.  xvii),  rendered 
to  persons  of  their  sex  whatever  services  their  infirmity 
required.  It.  was  a rule  for  the  deacons  and  deacon- 
esses to  seek  for  the  unfortunate  day  by  day,  and  to  in- 
form the  bishops,  who  in  turn,  accompanied  by  a priest, 
visited  the  sick  and  needy  of  all  classes  (Augustine,  De 
civil.  Dei,  1,  xxii,  e.  8).  The  hospitals  known  as  Noso- 


HOSPITAL  SISTERS 


360 


HOSSEIN 


comia  were  really  first  instituted  under  Constantine. 
They  were  under  the  direct  care  of  the  bishop  himself, 
and  were,  until  the  Middle  Ages,  oftentimes  placed  near 
or  incorporated  with  their  dwellings.  But  they  must 
not  be  understood  to  have  been,  like  the  hospitals  of  our 
own  day,  one  immense  building.  They  consisted  of  a 
number  of  small  cottages  (dormuncula?),  each  intended 
for  a certain  malady.  Procopius  (De  cedif.  Justinian.  I, 
i,  c.  2 ; Hist.Byzant.  iii),  in  speaking  of  an  ancient  vale- 
tudinarium  which  was  re-established  and  enlarged  by 
Justinian,  says  that  the  enlargement  consisted  in  the 
addition  of  a certain  number  of  small  houses  (“numero 
dormuncularum”),  and  of  additional  annual  revenues 
(“  annuo  censu”).  These  numberless  small  houses, 
spread  over  a large  area,  gave  to  a hospital  the  appear- 
ance and  extent  of  a village  by  itself.  The  nosoco- 
mia  were  also  established  in  the  West,  but,  unlike  those 
of  the  East,  they  were  confined  to  the  houses  of  the 
bishops.  Thus  Augustine  dined  at  the  same  table  with 
the  sick  and  poor  to  whom  he  afforded  relief  (Posidius, 
In  ejus  Vita,  c.  xxiii).  After  the  downfall  of  the  Eo- 
man  empire,  we  find  no  mention  made  of  hospitals  in 
Europe  for  several  centimes.  During  that  period  the 
bishops  generally  took  the  whole  care  of  the  poor  and 
the  sick.  The  bishops’  house  was  the  refuge  of  the 
poor,  the  widows,  the  orphans,  the  sick,  and  the  stran- 
gers ; the  care  of  receiving  and  entertaining  them  was, 
as  we  have  already  stated,  always  considered  one  of  the 
chief  duties  of  the  clergy.  During  the  troubled  times 
which  followed  the  downfall  of  the  Carlovingian  dynas- 
ty the  poor  were  almost  forsaken ; gaunt  famine  stalked 
over  Europe,  and  the  clergy  were  hardly  able  to  keep 
off  starvation  from  their  own  doors.  But  in  the  13th 
and  14th  centimes,  when  contagious  diseases  were  rife 
in  Europe,  hospitals  were  generally  established  in  near- 
ly all  parts  of  the  continent.  Some  were  the  fruit  of 
private  charity,  others  were  established  by  the  Church, 
and  others  by  the  state.  They  were  usually  under  the 
direction  of  priests  anil  monks,  and  in  the  course  of 
time  many  abuses  arose.  In  the  progress  of  civilization 
both  the  condition  and  the  management  of  such  institu- 
tions were  greatly  improved.  At  the  present  day,  no 
civilized  country  is  without  its  hospitals,  either  endowed 
and  supported  by  the  government  or  by  private  charity. 
The  Protestant  Church  of  Germany  has  institutions  of 
deaconesses,  who  especially  devote  them, selves  to  the 
care  of  the  sick  in  hospitals,  and  from  Germany  these 
institutions  have  spread  to  many  other  countries.  There 
are  also  in  many  countries  special  schools  for  the  training 
of  nurses  in  hospitals.  Among  those  who,  in  modern 
times,  have  exerted  themselves  for  the  improvement  of 
the  hospital  service,  Florence  Nightingale  is  prominent. 
See  Bergier,  Dictionnaire  de  Theologie , s.  v. ; Martigny, 
Diet,  das  Antiquites  Chret.  p.  289  sq. ; Aschbacli,  Kir- 
chen-Lex.  iii,  336  sq. ; Leckey,  History  of  Rationalism,  ii, 
263  sq. ; Gosselin,  Power  of  the  Pope,  i,  120, 222 ; Church 
of  England  Review,  July,  1855;  Low,  The  Charities  of 
London  (Lond.  1850, 12mo) ; Nightingale,  Notes  on  Nurs- 
ing (Loud.  1859);  Dietfenbach,  Aided,  zur  Krankenwar- 
tung  (Berl.  1832).  See  Almoner;  Ai.ms ; Deaconesses  ; 
Foundling  Hospitals  ; Orphan  Asylums.  (J.  H.W.) 

Hospital  Sisters,  also  called  “Daughters  of  God,” 
are  communities  of  nuns  and  lay  sisters  founded  for  the 
same  purpose  originally  as  the  Hospitallers  (q.  v.).  Their 
organization  spread  even  more  rapidly  than  the  latter, 
but  they  soon  abandoned  their  original  purpose,  and 
turned  their  attention  to  the  education  of  young  girls, 
especially  orphans,  and  also  to  the  redeeming  of  lost 
women.  They  are  to  be  found  to  this  day  in  France, 
the  Netherlands,  and  in  Italy,  and  are  especially  useful  I 
in  taking  care  of  the  sick.  Among  their  many  branches  j 
we  find  the  following:  (1.)  Hospital  Sisters  of  Notre 
Dame  of  Refuge,  founded  in  1624  by  Elizabeth  of  the  | 
Cross  at  Nancy,  confirmed  in  1634  by  pope  Urban  Till.  ' 
They  received  in  their  houses  three  classes  of  women — I 
virtuous  girls,  who  by  vows  bound  themselves  to  works 
of  charity ; fallen  women,  who,  after  their  reformation,  | 


were  likewise  admitted  to  taking  the  vows ; finally,  vol- 
untary penitents,  and  women  who  were  sent  to  these  in- 
stitutions against  their  will  for  correction.  (2.)  Hospi- 
tal Sisters  of  Loches  (in  Touraine),  foimded  in  1630  by 
the  priest  Pasquier  Bourav.  They  had  a very  strict 
rule.  (3.)  Hospital  Sisters  of  the  Mercy  of  Jesus,  estab- 
lished in  1630  according  to  the  rule  of  St.  Augustine ; 
confirmed  in  1638  by  patent  letters,  and  in  1664  and 
1667  by  papal  bulls.  (4.)  Hospital  Sisters  of  St.  Joseph 
or  of  Providence;  see  Providence,  Orders  of.  (5.) 
Hospital  Sisters  of  St.  Thomas  of  Villeneuve,  established 
in  1660  by  Angelas  le  Proust  and  Louis  Cliaboisseau, 
according  to  the  third  ride  of  St.  Augustine ; received 
in  1661  the  royal  sanction,  and  still  exist  in  France. 
(6.)  Hospital  Sisters  of  St.  A ugust  ine  of  Notre  Dame  of 
Christian  Love,  who  originated  in  1679  at  Grenoble.  (7.) 
Hospital  Sisters  of  Besanqon,  established  in  1685,  revived 
in  1807,  have  (1870)  about  eighteen  houses.  (8.)  Hos- 
pital Sisters  of  St.  Martha  of  Pontarlier,  established  in 
1687.  (9.)  Hospital  Sisters  of  the  Holy  Ghost ; see  Holy 
Ghost,  Orders  of.  To  the  class  of  Hospital  Sisters, 
in  the  wider  sense  of  the  ivord,  may  also  be  counted  the 
Elizabetliines,  the  Sisters  of  Charity,  and  many  other 
congregations. — Herzog,  Real-EncyHop.  vi,  285 ; Wetzcr 
u.  "White,  Kirchen-Lex.  v,  345  sq. ; ITelvot,  Geschichte  d. 
Kloster-  u.  Ritterorden,  ii,  362 ; iv,  404, 437, 475,  482 ; vii, 
342  sq. ; Theol.  Unit'.  Lex.  ii,  370  sq.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Hossbach,  Peter  Wilhelm,  S.T.D.,  a distinguish- 
ed German  theologian,  born  in  Wusterhausen,  Prussia, 
Feb.  20, 1784,  was  educated  at  the  universities  of  Halle 
and  Frankfort  on  the  Oder,  lie  was  a regular  attend- 
ant at  the  lectures  of  Knapp  and  Niemeyer.  After  his 
graduation  he  studied  with  great  interest  the  works  of 
Sclileiermacher,  with  whom  he  was  intimately  associ- 
ated the  greater  part  of  his  life,  and  through  whose  in- 
fluence he  obtained  the  position  of  preacher  to  the  Prus- 
sian military  school  for  officers  (Kadettenhaus)  at  Ber- 
lin. In  1819,  while  in  this  position,  he  published  Das 
Leben  Joh.  VaL  A ndreas,  which  was  highly  commented 
upon  by  Tholuck  (comp,  the  article  Andrea  in  Herzog, 
Real-Encyldop.  i,  and  Supplem.  i),  and  which  at  once  as- 
signed him  an  eminent  position  in  the  ranks  of  the 
Church  historians.  In  1821  he  became  pastor  of  the 
New  Jerusalem  Church.  His  opening  sermon,  which  he 
published,  led  to  the  publication  of  an  entire  volume  of 
his  sermons  (1822),  which  he  dedicated  to  his  friend 
Schleiermaelier.  Other  collections  of  his  sermons  were 
published  in  1824,  1827,  1831,  1837,  1843,  and  after  his 
death  another  collection,  with  an  introduction  by  Pi- 
schon,  in  1848.  Hossbach  published  his  most  important 
work  in  1828:  Spener  u.s.Zeit  (2  vols.8vo).  The  sec- 
ond edition,  which  was  published  in  1853,  contains  also, 
as  an  addendum,  an  introduction  to  the  history  of  the 
Evangelical  Church  and  theology  of  the  18th  century, 
a portion  of  a work  on  which  he  was  engaged  the  latter 
part  of  his  life,  and  which  was  left  imcompleted.  He 
died  April  7, 1846.  Hossbach  was  a popular  preacher, 
but  his  published  sermons  enjoyed  even  greater  popu- 
larity, and  established  his  reputation  as  an  able  divine. 
He  held  a midway  position  between  the  strictly  ortho- 
dox and  the  liberal  theologians  of  Germany,  and  his 
great  endeavor  was  to  effect  a compromise  between 
these  two  antagonistic  elements.  A very  fine  autobiog- 
raphy as  a minister  Hossbach  has  furnished  in  his  last 
sermon  of  the  sixth  collection,  delivered  to  his  congre- 
gation February  5, 1843,  after  a successful  treatment  of 
his  eyes,  one  of  which  the  physician  was  obliged  to  re- 
move. See  I lerzog,  Ileal-Encyklop.  xix,  655  sq. ; Theol . 
Univ.  Lex.  ii,  371.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hossein  ben-Mansour,  Abou’l  Moghits,  a Per- 
sian Mohammedan  Mystic  surnamed  A l-IIellaj,  was  born 
at  Khorassan  or  Beidali  (Fars)  in  the  second  half  of  the 
9th  century.  He  was  a descendant  of  a Gucbre  who 
had  embraced  Islamism.  After  studying  under  the  most 
distinguished  sofs,  one  of  ivhom  prescribed  for  him  soli- 
tude and  silence  for  two  years,  he  travelled  through  the 
East  as  far  as  China,  preaching  on  his  way.  Some  be- 


HOST 


361 


HOST 


lieved  in  him,  others  considered  him  an  impostor.  He 
uttered  new  opinions  in  religion  and  morals,  which  did 
not  very  well  harmonize  with  each  other,  nor  with  his 
mode  of  living:  thus  sometimes  he  was  a strict  observer 
of  all  the  practices  of  Islamism,  while  he  taught  that 
good  works  were  more  meritorious  than  devotional  prac- 
tices. II is  morals,  however,  were  unimpeachable,  and 
his  life  one  of  the  utmost  simplicity.  lie  professed  Pan- 
theism, which  he  symbolized  in  these  words : “ I am  God, 
and  all  is  God.”  The  imams  and  sheiks  of  Bagdad  con- 
demned him  to  death,  and  handed  him  over  to  the  sec- 
ular power.  After  remaining  one  year  and  a half  in 
prison,  by  order  of  the  vizir,  Ali  ben-Assa,  he  was  taken 
out  to  undergo  torture.  Instead  of  cursing  his  perse- 
cutors, he  prayed  for  them,  and  tlied  thus,  the  23d  dzou’l- 
cadeli,  309  (March,  922).  His  body  was  burnt,  and  his 
ashes  thrown  into  the  Tigris.  Ilis  theological  and  mys- 
tical works  are  some  thirty  in  number.  See  Ibn  Klial- 
likan,  Biograph.  Bict.  i,  423 ; and  Fragments  translated 
by  Tholuck , Bliithensammf.  aus  d.  mo rgen liindisch en  Mys- 
tik  (Berlin,  1825,  8vo),  p.  310,  327 ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog. 
Generate,  xxv,  215;  D’llerbelot,  Biblioth.  Orientate , p. 
392  (Ilallage).  (J.  N.  I*.) 

Host  occurs  in  the  A.  V.  of  the  Bible  in  two  very 
different  senses,  the  latter  and  most  frequent  now  near- 
ly obsolete. 

1.  Socially  (%h>or,  lit.  a stranger,  as  usually;  hence 
a guest,  and  by  inference  an  entertainer,  Bom.  xvi,  23 ; 
iravcoxtvc,  one  who  receives  all  eomers,  i.  e.  a tavern- 
keeper,  e.  g.  the  custodian  of  a caravanserai  [q.  v.],  Luke 
x,  35).  See  Hospitality  ; Inn. 

2.  Military  (prop,  and  usually  tsaba',  ivarfare, 

hence  an  army,  orparia  ; also  machaneh',  an  en- 

campment, host ; sometimes  gedud',  a troop;  b^n, 
cha'yil,  or  cheyl,  a force;  CD  ^2?  2,  maarabah',  a 
military  station;  Gr.  c rrpciTevpa.  or  aTpaTomcov),  the 
usual  designation  of  the  standing  army  among  the  Isra- 
elites. This  consisted  originally  of  infantry  (compare 
Numb,  xi,  21 ; l Sam.  iv,  10 ; xv,  4),  not  simply  because 
the  country  of  Palestine  prevented  the  use  of  cavalry, 
since  already  the  Canaanites  and  Philistines  had  iron 
(iron-armed)  chariots,  which  they  knew  how  to  use  to 
advantage  in  the  plains  and  open  land  (Josh,  xvii,  16 , 
Judg.  i,  i9;  iv,  3, 13;  v,  22;  1 Sam.  xiii,5;  eomp.Wich- 
maitsen,  Be  currib.  bellic.  in  oriente  it  sit  at  is,  Viteb.  1722  ; 
see  Chariot),  and  the  same  was  true  of  horsemen  (2 
Sam.  i,  6) ; moreover,  the  neighboring  nations  (Syrians 
and  Egyptians)  employed  these  military  instruments  in 
their  campaigns  against  the  Israelites  (Josh.  xi,9 ; Judg. 
iv,  3 ; 2 Sam.  x,  18,  etc.).  This  last  circumstance  (which 
appears  to  have  had  no  influence  over  David,  2 Sam. 
viii,  4),  especially  when  the  theatre  of  war  was  removed 
into  foreign  countries,  may  naturally  have  induced  Sol- 
omon (contrary  to  the  command,  Deut.  xvii,  16;  comp. 
Gesenius,  Comment,  zu  Jesa.  i,  186  sq.)  to  add  cavalry  to 
his  army  (1  Kings  iv,  26 ; x,  26),  which  he  distributed 
among  the  cities  (1  Kings  ix,  19;  x,  26) ; also  under  the 
later  kings  we  find  this  description  of  troops  mentioned 
(1  Kings  xvi,  9;  2 Kings  xiii,  7),  although  they  were 
eager  to  avail  themselves  of  the  assistance  of  the  Egyp- 
tian cavalry  (Isa.  xxxi,  1 ; xxxvi,  9 ; 2 Kings  xviii,  24). 
The  Mosaic  laws  obliged  every  male  Israelite  from  20 
years  of  age  (Numb,  i,  3 ; xxvi,  2 ; 2 Cliron.  xxv,  5)  to 
50  (Joseph.  Ant.  iii,  12, 4;  comp.  Macrob.  Sat.  i,  6;  Sen- 
eca, 1 'it.  brev.  20)  to  bear  arms  (see  in  Mislma,  Sofa,  viii, 
7),  yet  there  were  many  causes  of  exemption  (Deut.  xx, 
5 ; compare  1 Maec.  iii,  55).  Whenever  an  occasion  of 
hostilities  occurred,  the  young  men  assembled,  and  the 
requisite  enumeration  of  the  soldiers  (by  means  of  a 
“ISO,  sopher,  “ scribe”  or  registrar,  Jer.  Iii,  25 ; Isa. 
xxxiii,  18)  was  made  according  to  the  several  tribes 
(Numb,  xxxi,  2 sq. ; Josh,  vii,  3;  Judg.  xx,  10).  On 
sudden  incursions  of  enemies,  the  able-bodied  Israelites  ! 
were  summoned  by  special  messengers  (Judg.  vi,35),or 
by  tbe  sound  of  trumpets,  or  by  beacons  (03,  nes)  placed 


upon  the  hill-tops  (Judg.  iii,  27 ; vi,  34 ; vii,  24 ; Jer.  iv, 
5 sq. ; vi,  1 ; Ezek.  vii,  14 ; comp.  Isa.  xiii,  2 ; xlix,  22 ; 
2 Kings  iii,  21 ; Jer.  i,  2 ; 1 Mace,  vii,  45 ; Diod.  Sic.  xix, 
97).  The  entire  army,  thus  raised  by  levy,  was  divided, 
according  to  the  various  kinds  of  weapons  (2  Chron. 

xiv,  8),  into  troops  (officers  and  soldiers  together  being 

called  captains  and  servants ) of  1000, 

100,  and  50  men  (Numb,  xxxi,  14,48;  Judg.  xx,  10;  1 
Sam.  viii,  12 ; 2 Kings  i,  9 ; xi,  15),  each  having  its  own 
leader  (E"£bxH  “iEJ,  c upturn  of  the  thousands;  “O 
Pil’xoin,  captain  of  the  hundreds;  “lb,  captain 

of fifty  > 2 Kings  i,  9 ; xi,  4 ; 2 Chron.  xxv,  5 ; for  later 
times,  comp.  1 Macc.  iii,  55) : larger  divisions  are  also  re- 
ferred to  (1  Cliron.  xxvii,  1 sq. ; 2 Chron.  xvii,  14  sq.). 
The  commander-in-chief  of  the  entire  army  (called  “b 
b?nn,  captain  of  the  host,  or  XEECl  *vc?,  captain  of  the 
army,  or  SEillj  bp  “b,  captain  over  the  army,  2 Sam. 
ii,  8;  xxiv,  2;  1 Kings  i,  19)  formed  a council  of  war 
(general’s  staff)  with  the  commanders  of  the  chiliads 
and  centuries  (1  Chron.  xiii,  1 sq.),  and  in  time  of  peace 
had  the  direction  of  the  military  enrolment  (2  Sam. 
xxiv,  2 sq.).  But  the  king  generally  led  the  army  in 
person  in  battle.  The  national  militia  of  the  Hebrews 
wore  no  uniform,  and  at  first  each  soldier  was  at  his  own 
expense,  although  commissaries  of  provisions  are  occa- 
sionally mentioned  (Judg.  xx,  10).  On  military  weap- 
ons, see  Armor.  The  strength  of  the  Israelitish  armies 
is  sometimes  stated  in  very  high  figures  (1  Sam.  xi,  8 ; 

xv,  4 ; 1 Chron.  xxvii,  1 sq.),  which  is  not  so  surprising, 
as  they  were  gathered  hi  mass  by  messengers  (at  a later 
day,  Josephus- got  together  in  Galilee  alone  100,000  men 
of  the  Jewish  soldiery,  War,  ii,  20, 6) ; but  the  numbers 
are  probably  often  corrupt  (2  Sam.  xxiv,  9 sq. ; 1 Chron. 
xxi,  5 sq.;  2 Chron.  xiii, 3;  xiv,  8;  xvii,  14;  xxvi,  12 
sq.)  or  (in  the  Chronicles,  see  Gramberg,  p.  117)  exag- 
gerated. See  Number. 

The  organization  of  a standing  army  was  begun  by 
Saul  (1  Sam.  xiii,  2 sq. ; xxiv.  3)  in  the  establishment 
(by  voluntary  enlistment)  of  a picked  corps  of  3000 
strong  from  the  whole  mass  of  the  people  subject  to 
military  duty  (1  Sam.  xiv,  52).  David  followed  his 
example,  but.  besides  the  body-guard  (see  Cherethite 
and  Peletiiite),  he  likewise  instituted  a national  army, 
to  serve  in  turn  in  monthly  divisions  (L  Chron.  xxvii,  1 
sq.).  Solomon  did  the  same  (1  Kings  iv,  26);  and  even 
princes  of  the  royal  stock,  before  they  came  to  the  throne, 
invested  themselves  with  a life-guard  of  troops  (2  Sam. 
xv,  1 ; 1 Kings  i,  5).  Likewise  under  Jehoshapbat  (2 
Chron.  xvii,  14  sq.),  Athaliah  (2  Kings  xi,  4),  Amaziah 
(2  Chron.  xxv,  5),  and  Uzziah  (2  Chron.  xxvi,  11),  as 
also  under  Ahaziali  of  Israel  (2  Kings  i.  9 sq.),  standing 
troops  are  mentioned  in  time  of  peace,  hut  they  were 
probably  not  in  constant  service.  Their  pay  probably 
consisted  in  agricultural  produce.  Foreigners  were  not 
excluded  from  the  honors  of  war  (as  may  be  seen  in  the 
case  of  Uriah  the  Ilittite,  and  other  warriors  of  David, 
q.  v.) ; and  Amaziah,  king  of  Judah  (although  with  the 
disapprobation  of  the  prophet),  even  hired  a whole  troop 
of  Ephraimitish  soldiers  (2  Cliron.  xxv,  6 sq.).  (See 
generally  J.  F.  Zacharke,  Be  re  mifitari  ret . Htbr.  Kil. 
1735,  a work  of  no  great  merit.)  In  post-exilian  times 
a fresh  organization  of  Jewish  military  force  was  insti- 
tuted under  the  Maccabees.  Jiulas  early  established  his 
military  companies  (1  Macc.  iii,  55)  in  divisions  of  1000 
100, 50,  and  10;  ami  Simon,  as  prince,  first  paid  a stand- 
ing army  out  of  his  own  resources  (1  Macc.  xiv,  32). 
His  successors  commanded  a still  larger  number  of 
troops,  and  John  I Iy  ramus  was  the  first  who  enlisted 
also  foreigners  (Joseph.  Ant.  xiii,  8, 4),  probably  Arabi- 
ans, who  served  in  mercenary  armies  (1  Maec.  v,  39). 
On  the  other  hand,  the  Jews  likewise  engaged  in  for- 
eign warfare,  for  instance,  as  auxiliaries  of  the  Egyp- 
tians (l  Macc.  x,  36  ; Joseph.  Ant.  xiii,  10, 4),  and  indi- 
viduals even  attained  the  rank  of  commanders  (Joseph. 
Ant.  xiii,  10,  4;  13, 1 ; Apion,  ii,  5).  although  the}-  gen- 
erally abstained  from  serving  in  foreign  armies,  on  ac- 


HOST  OF  HEAVEN 


362 


HOST 


count  of  being  obliged  to  violate  the  Sabbath  (Joseph. 
Ant.  xiv,  10, 11  sq.,U).  The  discontent  and  party  jeal- 
ousies of  the  Jews  rendered  necessary  the  employment 
of  foreign  mercenaries  by  king  Alexander  and  queen 
Alexandra  (Joseph.  Ant.  xiii,  13,  5;  14,  1 ; 10,  2),  called 
heavy-armed  (eKarovrafiaxoi,  Joseph.  Ant.  xiii,  12,  5). 
Herod  the  Great  had  in  his  army,  no  doubt,  many  for- 
eigners, even  Germans  (Joseph.  Ant.  xvii, 8, 3;  IFur,  ii, 
1,2);  Handler  (in  A ct.  A cad.  Erford.  M ogunt.  i,  415  sq.) 
understands  also  a special  chosen  corps  as  a body-guard 
(tTujga70<pu\aKeg,  Joseph.  Ant.  xv,  9,  3;  eomp.  War,  ii, 
1,  3).  He,  as  also  his  successor  (Joseph.  Ant.  xvii,  10, 3 ; 
War,  ii,  20,  1),  suffered  his  troops  in  certain  cases  to 
unite  with  the  Homan  legions  (Josephus,  War,  ii,  18,  9; 

iii, 4, 2 ; Ant.  xvii,  10,  S),  and  these  Ilerodian soldiers, like 
the  Roman,  were  employed  to  guard  prisoners  (Acts  xii, 
4 sq.).  Respecting  the  discipline  of  these  Ilerodian 
troops  we  know  nothing  positive,  but  they  were  certain- 
ly organized  on  Roman  principles,  as  also  Josephus  him- 
self armed  and  disciplined  the  Jewish  militia  who  were 
under  his  command,  after  the  Roman  custom  (War,  ii, 
20,  7).  In  the  times  of  the  direct  Roman  government 
of  Judsea,  in  order  to  maintain  tranquillity,  there  were 
Roman  military  bodies  in  the  country,  who  were  regu- 
larly stationed  at  the  head-quarters  of  the  procurator  at 
Caesarea  (Acts  x,  1) ; but  during  the  great  festival,  name- 
ly, the  Passover,  they  were  in  part  detailed  to  Jerusalem 
(Acts  xxi,  31 ; Joseph.  llraf,  ii,  12, 1).  See  Roman  Em- 
pire. (See  generally  Danz,  l)e  Ebrceor.  re  milit.  Jense, 
1G90;  J.  Lydii  Sgntagma  de  re  milit.  cava,  nods  S.  van 
Til,  Dordrac.  1G98 ; both  also  in  Ugolini  Thesaur.  xxvii.) 
— Winer,  i,  G82.  See  Army  ; War. 

HOST  OF  IIEAYEX  (C”WA;n  tseba'  hash- 

shama'ym,  army  of  the  skies),  in  Gen.  ii,  1,  refers  to 
the  sun,  moon,  and  stars,  as  the  host  of  heaven  under 
the  symbol  of  an  army,  in  which  the  sun  is  considered 
as  the  king,  the  moon  as  his  vicegerent,  the  stars  and 
planets  as  their  attendants,  and  the  constellations  as  the 
battalions  and  squadrons  of  the  army  drawn  up  in  or- 
der, that  they  may  come  with  their  leaders  to  execute 
the  designs  and  commands  of  the  sovereign.  According 
to  this  notion,  it  is  said  in  the  song  of  Deborah,  “ The 
stars  in  their  courses  fought  against  Sisera”  (Judg.  v, 
20).  The  worship  of  the  host  of  heaven  was  one  of  the 
earliest  forms  of  idolatry  (q.  v.),  and,  from  finding  it  fre- 
quently reprobated  in  the  Scriptures,  we  may  conclude 
that  it  was  very  common  among  the  Jews  in  the  days 
of  their  declension  from  the  pure  service  of  God  (Deut. 

iv,  19;  2 Kings  xvii,  1G;  xxi,  3,  5;  xxiii,  5;  Jcr.  xix, 
13;  Zeph.  i,  5;  Acts  vii,  42).  See  Heaven. 

In  the  book  of  Daniel  it  is  said,  “And  it  (the  little 
horn)  waxed  great,  even  to  the  host  of  heaven ; and  it 
cast  down  some  of  the  host  of  the  stars  to  the  ground, 
and  stamped  upon  them”  (viii,  10,  11).  This  doubt- 
less points  to  the  aspiring  nature  and  usurping  power 
of  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  who  in  2 Macc.  ix,  10  is  de- 
scribed as  the  man  who  thought  he  could  reach  to  the 
stars  of  heaven ; which,  from  Isa.  xiv,  13 ; xxiv,  21,  may 
be  understood  to  signify  the  rulers,  both  civil  and  eccle- 
siastical, among  the  Jews.  The  priests  and  Levites, 
like  the  angels,  were  continually  waiting  on  the  service 
of  the  King  of  heaven  in  the  Temple,  as  of  old  in  the 
tabernacle  (Numb,  viii,  24),  and  these  were  that  part  of 
the  host,  or  the  holy  people,  that  were  thrown  down 
and  trampled  upon ; for  Antiochus  overthrew  some  of 
the  most  celebrated  luminaries  among  the  leaders  of  the 
Jewish  people,  and  reduced  them  to  the  lowest  degra- 
dation. Spencer,  in  his  treatise  De  Legibus  lleb.  bk.  i, 
cli.  iv,  p.  202,  takes  notice  that  the  Scripture  often  bor- 
rows expressions  from  military  affairs  to  accommodate 
itself  to  the  use  of  the  tabernacle,  and  hence  is  the  fre- 
quent use  of  the  term  “ host.”  The  host  of  heaven  and 
the  prince  of  the  host  he  thinks  must  refer  to  the  body 
of  the  priests,  who  exercised  the  offices  of  their  warfare 
under  the  standards  of  the  Deity.  See  Little  Horn. 

A very  frequent  epithet  of  Jehovah  is  “ Jehovah  God 
of  hosts,’’'  i.  e.  of  the  celestial  armies ; generally  rendered 


“ Lord  God  of  hosts”  (Jer.  v,  14;  xxxviii,  17 ; xliv,  7 ; 
Hos.  xii,  5;  Amos  iii,  13;  Psa.  lix,  5;  lxxx,  4,  7,  14). 
This  is  a very  usual  appellation  of  the  Most  High  God 
in  some  of  the  prophetical  and  other  books,  especially 
in  Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  Zechariah,  and  Malachi;  but  does 
not  occur  in  the  Pentateuch,  in  the  books  of  Joshua  and 
Judges,  nor  in  Ezekiel,  Job,  and  the  writings  of  Solo- 
mon. The  Hebrew  word  “ Sabaoth,”  i.  c.  hosts,  is  used 
by  the  apostles  Paid  and  James  (Rom.  ix,  29;  James  v, 
4),  and  is  retained  untranslated  in  the  English  Version. 
As  to  the  grammatical  construction  of  Jehovah  of  hosts, 
some  suppose  it  to  be  by  ellipsis  for  Jehovah  God  of 
hosts;  Gesenius  says  this  is  not  necessary,  and  the  Ar- 
abs, too,  subjoin  in  like  manner  a genitive  of  attribute 
to  the  proper  names  of  persons,  as  A ntara,  of  the  horse, 
q.  d.  Antara,  chief  of  the  horse.  So,  too,  in  the  con- 
struction God  of  hosts,  the  word  hosts  may  be  taken  as 
an  attribute  which  could  be  put  in  apposition  with  the 
names  of  God.  The  hosts  thus  signified  in  Jehovah  of 
hosts  can  hardly  be  doubtful  if  we  compare  the  expres- 
sions host  and  hosts  of  Jehovah  (Josh,  v,  14, 15;  Psa.  ciii, 
21;  cxlviii,  2),  which,  again,  do  not  differ  from  host  of 
heaven,  embracing  both  angels,  and  the  sun,  moon,  and 
stars  (^Gen.  xxxii,  1,  2;  Deut.  iv,  19).  The  phrase  Je- 
hovah of  hosts,  therefore,  differs  little  from  the  latter 
form,  God  of  heaven,  and  Jehovah  God  of  heaven  (Gen. 
xxiv,  7 ; 2 Chron.  xxxvi,  23;  Job  xv,  15;  Ezra  i,  2;  v, 
11,12;  vi,  9, 10;  Nell,  i,  4,  5;  ii,  4, 20;  Psa.  cxxxvi,  2G; 
Jon.  i,  9;  Dan.  ii,  18,  37 ; Rev.  xi,  13).  See  Sabaoth. 

Host  (oblation,  from  hostia,  victim,  sacrifice),  the 
name  given  in  the  Romish  Church  to  the  bread  or  wa- 
fers used  in  the  celebration  of  the  Eucharist.  It  is  un- 
leavened, thin,  flat,  and  of  circular  form,  and  has  certain 
emblematic  devices,  as  the  crucifixion,  the  Lamb,  or 
some  words,  or  initials  of  words,  having  reference  to  the 
sacrifice,  impressed  on  it.  The  Greek  and  other  Orien- 
tal churches,  as  well  as  the  various  Protestant  churches, 
celebrate  the  Eucharist  by  using  leavened  bread,  only 
differing  from  ordinary  bread  in  being  of  a finer  qual- 
ity ; and  one  of  the  grounds  of  separation  from  the  West 
alleged  by  Michael  Cerularius  was  the  Western  practice 
of  using  unleavened  bread.  “ The  Greek  and  Protes- 
tant controversialists  allege  that  in  the  early  Church 
ordinary  or  leavened  bread  was  always  used,  and  that 
our  Lord  himself,  at  the  Last  Supper,  employed  the 
same.  Even  the  learned  cardinal  Bona  and  the  Jesuit 
Sirmond  are  of  the  same  opinion ; but  most  Roman  di- 
vines, with  the  great  Mabillon  at  their  head,  contend 
for  the  antiquity  of  the  use  of  the  unleavened  bread,  and 
especially  for  its  conformity  with  the  institution  of  our 
Lord,  inasmuch  as  at  the  paschal  supper,  at  which  ‘ he 
took  bread,  and  blessed,  and  brake  it,’  none  other  than 
the  unleavened  was  admissible  (Exod.  xii,  8,  15;  Lev. 
xxiii,  5).  (See  Klee,  Dogmatik,  iii,  190.)” — Chambers. 
At  the  Council  of  Florence  it  was  left  at  the  option 
of  the  churches  to  use  leavened  or  unleavened  bread. 
“Romanists  worship  the  host  under  a false  presumption 
that  they  are  no  longer  bread  and  wine,  but  transub- 
stantiated into  the  real  body  and  blood  of  Christ,  who 
is,  on  each  occasion  of  the  celebration  of  that  sacrament, 
offered  up  anew  as  a victim  (hostia)  by  the  so-called 
‘ priests.’  Against  this  error  the  XXXIst  Article  of  Re- 
ligion is  expressly  directed,  and  also  these  words  in  the 
consecration  prayer  of  the  Communion  Service  of  the 
Protestant  Episcopal  Church,  ‘By  his  one  oblation  of 
himself  once  offered,’  etc.,  that  Church  pointedly  declar- 
ing in  both  those  places  that  the  minister,  * so  far  from 
offering  any  sacrifice  himself,  refers’  the  people  ‘to  the 
sacrifice  already  made  by  another’  ” (Eden).  After  the 
Council  of  Trent  had  determined  that,  upon  consecra- 
tion, the  bread  and  wine  in  the  sacrament  are  changed 
into  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  true  God  and  man,  and  that 
though  the  Saviour  always  sits  at  the  right  hand  of  God 
in  heaven,  he  is,  notwithstanding,  in  many  other  places 
sacramentally  present,  this  decision  follows:  “There  is, 
therefore,  no  room  to  doubt  that  all  the  faithful  in  Christ 
are  bound  to  venerate  this  most  holy  sacrament,  and  to 


HOSTAGE 


363 


HOTTENTOTS 


render  thereto  the  worship  of  labia,  which  is  due  to  the 
true  God,  according  to  the  constant  usage  of  the  Catho- 
lic Church.  Nor  is  it  the  less  to  be  thus  adored  that  it 
was  instituted  by  Christ  the  Lord.”  We  learn  that,  in 
conformity  with  this  instruction,  as  the  Missal  directs, 
the  priest,  in  every  mass,  as  soon  as  he  has  consecrated 
the  bread  and  wine,  with  bended  knees  adores  the  sac- 
rament. He  worships  what  is  before  him  on  the  paten 
and  in  the  chalice,  and  gives  to  it  the  supreme  worship, 
both  of  mind  and  body,  that  he  would  pay  to  Christ 
himself.  With  his  head  bowing  towards  it,  ami  his 
eyes  and  thoughts  fixed  on  it  and  directed  towards  it, 
he  prays  to  it  as  to  Christ : “ Lamb  of  God,  who  takest 
away  the  sins  of  the  world,  have  mercy  on  us.  Lamb 
of  God,  who  takest  away  the  sins  of  the  world,  have 
mercy  on  us.  Lamb  of  God,  who  takest  away  the  sins 
of  the  world,  give  us  peace.”  The  following  is  a trans- 
lation from  the  rubric  of  the  Missal:  “Having  uttered 
the  words  of  consecration,  the  priest,  immediately  fall- 
ing on  his  knees,  adores  the  consecrated  host;  he  rises, 
shows  it  to  the  people,  places  it  on  the  corporalc,  and 
again  adores  it.”  When  the  wine  is  consecrated,  the 
priest,  in  like  manner,  “falling  on  his  knees,  adores  it, 
rises,  shows  it  to  the  people,  puts  the  cup  in  its  place, 
covers  it  over,  and  again  adores  it.”  The  priest,  rising 
up  after  lie  has  adored  it  himself,  lifts  it  up  as  high  as 
he  can  conveniently,  and,  with  his  eyes  fixed  upon  it, 
shows  it,  to  be  devoutly  adored  by  the  people;  who, 
having  notice  also,  by  ringing  the  mass-bell,  as  soon  as 
they  see  it,  fall  down  in  the  humblest  adoration  to  it,  as 
if  it  were  God  himself.  If  Christ  were  visibly  present, 
they  could  not  bestow  on  him  more  acts  of  homage 
than  they  do  on  the  host.  They  pray  to  it,  and  use  the 
same  acts  of  invocation  as  they  do  to  Christ  himself. 
The  host  is  also  worshipped  when  it  is  carried  through 
the  street  in  solemn  procession,  either  before  the  pope, 
or  when  taken  to  some  sick  person,  or  on  the  feast  of 
Corpus  Christi.  The  person  who,  in  great  churches, 
conveys  the  sacrament  to  the  numerous  communicants, 
is  called  bajulus  Dei,  the  porter  or  carrier  of  God.  This 
idolatrous  custom  of  the  Church  of  Rome  was  not  known 
till  the  year  121G;  for  it  was  in  1215  that  transubstan- 
tiation,  by  the  Council  of  Latcran,  under  pope  Innocent 
III,  was  made  an  article  of  faith;  and  we  also  find  in 
the  Roman  canon  law  that  it  was  pope  Honorius  who 
ordered,  in  the  following  year,  that  the  priests,  at  a cer- 
tain part  of  the  mass  service,  should  elevate  the  host, 
and  cause  the  people  to  prostrate  themselves  in  wor- 
shipping it.  Sec  Augusti,  Denhcurdiqkeiien  aus  der 
christi.  A rchdol.  viii,  275  sip ; Elliott,  Delineation  of  Ro- 
manism, bk.  ii,  ch.  iv,  v;  Brown,  Expos,  of  the  39  Arti- 
cles, p.  GOG,  731,  n. ; Neale,  Inf  rod.  East.  Church,  ii,  51 G ; 
Siegel,  Christ.  Alterth.  i,  30;  Bingham,  Christ.  A ntiq.  ii, 
819;  Farrar,  s.  v.  Adoration;  Schrbckh,  Kirchengesch. 
xxviii,  p.  73;  and  the  articles  Azvmites;  Lord’s  Sup- 
per; Mass;  Tr  axsubstan t i at i o x.  (J.  11. W.) 

Hostage  (ron^ri,  taarubah',  suretyship’),  a per- 
son delivered  into  the  hands  of  another  as  a security  for 
the  performance  of  some  engagement.  See  Pledge. 
Conquered  kings  or  nations  often  gave  hostages  for  the 
payment  of  their  tribute,  or  for  the  continuance  of  their 
subjection;  thus  Jehoash,  king  of  Israel,  exacted  hos- 
tages from  Amaziah,  king  of  Judah  (2  Kings  xiv,  14 ; 2 
Cliron.  xxv,  24).  See  War. 

Hotchkin,  Ebenezer,  a Presbyterian  missionary 
to  the  Indians,  was  born  at  Richmond,  Mass.,  March  19, 
1803.  He  was  sent  as  an  assistant  missionary  to  the 
Choctaw  nation  in  1828,  and  spent  the  rest  of  his  life 
laboring  among  them.  He  died  at  the  residence  of  his 
brother,  the  late  Rev.  John  Hotchkin,  at  Lenox,  Mass., 
Oct.  28,  1867.  Hotchkin  was  not  only  a minister,  but 
also  an  instructor,  and  was  active  in  the  management 
of  boarding  and  other  schools. — Wilson,  Presbyterkm 
Historical  A Imanac,  18G8,  p.  334  sq. 

Hot  Cross-Buns,  a kind  of  muffin  or  biscuit,  with 
the  figure  of  the  cross  impressed  upon  them,  quite  gen- 


erally used  in  England  by  the  adherents  of  the  Church 
of  England  for  breakfast  on  Good  Friday.  These  bis- 
cuits arc  said  to  be  derived  from  the  Ecclesiastical  Eu- 
logiai  (q.  v.),  formerly  given  as  a token  of  friendship,  or 
sent  to  the  houses  of  those  who  were  hindered  from  re- 
ceiving the  host. — Sec  Staunton,  Ecclesiastical  Diction- 
ary, p.  377. 

Ho'tham  (Heb.  Chatham',  Cm’n,  a seal  or  siguet- 
ring,  as  in  Exod.  xxviii,  12,  etc.;  Sept.  XioSdp,  Yidg. 
Ilotham),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  One  of  the  sons  of  Ilcber,  the  grandson  of  Asher 
(1  Chron.  vii,  32).  B.C.  cir.  1G58.  lie  is  probably  the 
same  with  IIele.m,  whose  sons  arc  enumerated  in  verse 
35,  and  grandsons  in  verses  3G,  37. 

2.  An  Aroerite,  and  father  of  Shama  and  Jcliiel,  two 
of  David’s  champions  (1  Cliron.  xi,  44,  where  the  name 
is  Anglicized  “ Hothan,”  after  the  Sept.  XwSrap).  B.C. 
104G. 

Ho'than  (1  Chron.  xi,  44).  Sec  IIotham  2. 

Ho'thir  (lleb.  Ilothir',  preserver;  Sept, 

Twt-Supf,  ’ItSipi),  the  thirteenth  son  of  Homan  (q.  v.), 
who,  with  eleven  of  his  kinsmen,  had  charge  of  the 
twenty-first  division  of  Lcvitical  singers  (I  Chron.  xxv, 
4,  28).  B.C.  1014.  See  Giddalti. 

Hottentots,  the  aboriginal  inhabitants  of  Cape 
Colony,  in  Southern  Africa.  They  arc  divided  into 
three  large  tribes:  1.  the  Nama,  or  Namaqua;  2.  the 
Kora  (Korana,  Koraqua) ; and,  3.  the  Saab,  or  Bushmen 
(Bosjesmans).  In  modern  times  they  have  been  pushed 
northwards,  partly  by  European  immigrants,  partly  by 
the  Bctchuanas  and  Kafircs.  The  Nama,  or  Namaqua, 
live  as  nomads  along  the  Orange  River,  in  Great  Na- 
maqualand,  which  is  an  independent  country,  with  about 
100,000  square  miles,  and  only  40,000  inhabitants,  and 
Little  Namaqualand,  which  is  a part  of  Cape  Colony. 
The  Kora,  or  Korana,  were  about  fifty  years  ago  very 
num'Tous  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Yaal  and  Hart  rivers; 
now  they  dwell  as  nomads  on  both  sides  of  the  Upper 
Orange  River,  both  in  Cape  Colony  and  in  the  Orange 
Free  State  (q.  v.).  The  Saab,  or  Bushmen,  live  scat- 
tered, partly  in  the  northern  districts  of  Cape  Colony, 
partly  in  the  desert  lvalahary.  In  Cape  Colony  there 
were,  according  to  the  census  of  1SG5,  81,598  Hotten- 
tots, by  the  side  of  181,592  Europeans,  and  100,536 
KalTres,  in  a total  population  of  49G,381.  Little  is 
known  of  the  Hottentots’  religion  further  than  that  they 
believe  in  a good  and  an  evil  spirit,  hold  festivals  on  the 
occasion  of  the  new  and  full  moon,  and  look  upon  cer- 
tain spots  as  the  abode  of  departed  spirits.  They  have 
no  regular  priest,  nor  anything  like  an  established  wor- 
ship, although  they  render  especial  homage  to  a small, 
shining  bug.  They  have  magicians  for  whom  they 
have  great  respect.  The  Dastards,  or  Griquas,  result- 
ing from  the  amalgamation  of  Hottentots  and  Europe- 
ans, appear  much  more  susceptible  of  mental  and  intel- 
lectual culture;  they  also  form  a distinct  race,  and  a 
colony  of  6000  of  them,  established  at  the  Cat  River  in 
182G,  has  been  quite  successful,  and  numbered  in  1870 
about  20,000,  nearly  all  Christians.  They  are  partly 
nomads,  partly  agriculturists.  The  Hottentots  in  Cape 
Colony  and  the  Griquas  no  longer  speak  the  Hotten- 
tot language,  but  a Dutch  dialect,  strongly  mixed  with 
Hottentot  and  Kaffre  words.  The  Hottentot  language 
is  not  related  to  any  other,  and  is  especially  different 
from  the  large  South  African  family  of  languages. 
The  words  are  mostly  monosyllabic,  and  usually  end 
in  a vowel  or  nasal  sound.  Among  the  consonants, 
l,  f and  v arc  wanting.  There  arc  many  diphthongs. 
Non-Africans  find  it  impossible  to  imitate  the  guttu- 
rals which  the  Hottentots  breathe  with  a hoarse  voice 
from  a hollow  chest,  as  well  as  the  four  clicking  sounds 
which  are  produced  by  a lashing  of  the  tongue  against 
the  palate,  and  which  in  writing  arc  represented  by 
lines  and  points  (I  = dental;  ! = palatal;  ± = cere- 
bral ; ||,  lateral).  Modern  linguists  enumerate  four  dia- 
lects: 1.  that  of  the  Nama;  2.  that  of  the  Kora;  3.  that. 


HOTTINGER 


364 


HOTTINGER 


of  the  eastern  Hottentots,  or  Gonaqnas ; 4.  the  dead  dia-  ] 
lects  of  the  colonial  Hottentots.  The  substantives  have  1 
three  genders,  masculine,  feminine,  and  common ; and  t 
three  numbers,  singular,  dual,  and  plural.  There  are  1 
no  cases ; the  adjective  and  verb  are  not  inflected.  The  < 
prepositions  are  usually  placed  after  the  words  which  < 
they  govern.  The  language  of  the.  Bushmen  differs  t 
from  that  of  the  other  Hottentots.  By  the  Dutch  con-  < 
querors  of  the  country  of  the  Hott  entots  the  poor  inhab-  1 
itants  were  considered  unworthy  of  Christianity,  and  . 
even  many  members  of  the  colonial  churches  discoun-  ] 
tenanced  and  prevented  all  missionary  enterprises.  The  t 
first  missionary  among  the  Hottentots  began  his  opera-  1 
tions  in  1709,  but  he  ceased  them  after  a few  weeks.  In  1 
1737,  the  Moravian  missionary,  G.  Schmidt,  gained  an  1 
attentive  hearing ; but  when,  after  a few  years,  the  fruit  < 
of  his  labors  appeared,  he  was  compelled  by  the  colonial  < 
government  to  leave.  During  the  next  fifty  years  no  i 
missionary  was  allowed  to  visit  the  Hottentots.  In  1792  i 
the  Moravians  succeeded  in  re-establishing  their  mission, 
but  not  until  the  country  passed  into  the  hands  of  the 
English  did  the  missionaries  find  the  necessary  protection, 
under  which  their  station  at  Baviaanskloof  (at  present 
called  Gcnadendal)  became  very  flourishing.  The  work 
grew  steadily,  and  (since  1818)  has  extended  from  the 
Hottentots  to  the  lvaffres.  The  Moravians,  even  as 
early  as  1798,  were  joined  by  the  London  Missionary 
Society.  The  missionary  Von  der  Kemp  established  in 
the  eastern  part  of  the  colony  a mission  among  the  Hot- 
tentots, and  the  latter  labored  among  the  Bushmen. 
In  Little  Namaqnaland  the  mission  was  likewise  begun 
by  the  London  Society,  and  continued  by  the  Rhenish 
Missionary  Society,  which,  after  the  emancipation  of 
the  Hottentots,  established  a number  of  stations  in  the 
eastern  districts.  Several  thousands  of  Griquas  settled 
on  the  Cat  River,  where  the  station  Philipton,  with  sev- 
eral out-stations,  arose.  Among  the  Koras  missions 
have  been  established  (since  1834)  by  the  Berlin  Mis- 
sionary Society.  More  recently,  a number  of  other  mis- 
sionary societies,  of  almost  all  the  churches  represent- 
ed in  Cape  Colony,  have  taken  part  in  the  missions 
among  the  Hottentots.  Beyond  the  limits  of  Cape 
Colony,  the  London  Mission  Society  was  the  first  to  es- 
tablish (1805)  missions  in  Great  Namaqnaland.  Subse- 
quently the  field  was  occupied  by  the  Wesleyan  Mctho-  1 
dists  and  the  Rhenish  Missionary  Society.  Several  sta- 
tions established  by  the  former  in  the  northern  parts  of 
the  country  were  again  abandoned  (Concordiaville  and 
Weslevvale,  1845-53),  but  in  18G9  they  still  had  three 
districts  in  the  south — Nisbethbath,  Hoole’s  Fountain, 
and  Jerusalem — all  of  which  were  occupied  by  native 
helpers,  and  occasionally  visited  by  a Wesleyan  mission- 
ary from  Little  Namaqualand.  More  extensive  is  the 
work  of  the  Rhenish  Society,  which  in  1842  established 
its  first  out-station  at  Bethania,  and  gradually  advanced 
northwards  as  far  as  the  Zwachaub.  Their  labors,  espe- 
cially at  Bethania,  have  been  very  successful,  and  Great 
Namaqualand  may  now  be  regarded  as  a Christianized 
country.  See  Tindall  (Wesleyan  missionary),  Tu-o  Lec- 
tures on  Great  Namaqualand  and  its  Inhabitants ; Moo- 
die,  The  Record , or  a Semes  of  official  Papers  relative  to 
the  Condition  and  Treatment  of  the  native  Tribes  in  South 
Africa  (Capetown,  1838  sq.,  5 vols.).  A Grammar  of 
the  Hottentot  language  has  been  prepared  by  Tyndall 
(Capetown,  1857),  and  a work  on  etymology  by  Wall- 
mann  (Berlin,  1*57).  On  the  history  of  the  missions 
among  the  Hottentots,  see  Grundemann,  Missionsatlas 
(Gotha,  18G7).  (A.  J.  S.) 

Hottinger,  Johann  Heinrich,  1,  a celebrated 
Swiss  theologian  and  scholar,  born  at  Zurich  March  10, 
1620.  He  studied  theology  and  the  Oriental  languages  at 
Zurich,  Geneva,  Groningen,  and  Leyden.  In  1 642  he  be- 
came professor  of  Church  History  at  Zurich,  and  in  1643 
added  to  it  a professorship  at  the  Carolinum.  In  1655 
he  became  professor  of  Oriental  languages  at  Heidel- 
berg, but  in  1661  he  returned  to  Zurich.  In  1666,  af- 
ter the  decease  of  Hoornbeck  (q.  v.),  the  University  of 


Leyden  urged  Hottinger  to  come  as  his  successor.  He 
finally  consented,  by  advice  of  the  Swiss  government, 
to  serve  that  university  a few  years.  While  making 
his  arrangements  preparatory  to  his  journey,  he  was 
drowned  in  the  Limmat,  June  5,  1667.  Hottinger  oc- 
cupies a distinguished  place  among  the  philologists  of 
the  17th  century,  who  labored  to  promote  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  Shemitic  languages.  He  was  one  of  the 
first  to  bring  to  public  notice  a number  of  Syriac  and 
Arabic  works  by  giving  extracts  from  them  and  biogra- 
phies of  their  authors.  He  also  gave  a powerful  impulse 
to  the  study  of  Oriental  languages  by  establishing  at 
his  own  expense  an  Arabic  printing-office  at  Heidel- 
berg while  professor  in  that  city.  The  great  aim  of  his 
writings  was  to  establish  the  interpretation  of  Scripture 
on  a more  thoroughly  historical  and  grammatical  foun- 
dation; yet  he  rather  furnished  the  means  for  such  a 
system  than  established  it  himself.  Ilis  works  consist 
chiefly  of  compilations,  and  were  valuable  from  the  fact 
that  they  were  from  sources  previously  not  generally 
known.  He  seldom  gives  an  exegesis,  but  when  he 
does  it  is  based  on  grammatical  and  historical  consider- 
ations rather  than  on  dogmatical.  Ilis  principal  works 
are,  Exercit at  tones  Antimoriniance  de  Pentateucho  Sama- 
rit.  (1644)  : — Erotemata  lingua  sanctee  (1647 ; 2d  edition, 
1667)  : — Granimatica  Ch aldmo-Syriaca  (1658):  — Hist, 
orient alis  de  Muhammedismo , Saracenismo,  Chaldaismo 
(Zur.  1650) : — IlistoHa  ccclesiast.  Novi  Test.  (1651-67,  9 
vols.),  of  which  Scliaff  (Ch.  Ilisi.  i,  21)  says  that  it  is  a 
counterpart  of  the  Magdeburg  Centuries.  “It  is  less 
original  and  vigorous,  but  more  sober  and  moderate — 
Jus  llebrceoruni  (1655): — Smegma  orientals  oppositum 
sordibus  barbarismi  (1657) : — Bibliotheca  orientalis  (Hei- 
delb.  1658): — Thesaurus  philol.  (Zur.  1649): — Wegvcei- 
ser , dadurch  man  versicliert  werden  mag , u'o  heut  zu 
Tage  der%cahre  katholische  Glaube  zufinden  sei  (1647-49, 
3 vols.)  : — Cursus  theologicus  (1660). — Pierer,  Universal 
Lexikon , s.  v. ; Kitto,  Bill.  Cyclop,  ii.  331 ; Hoefer,  None, 
Biogr.  Generals,  xxv,  236  sq. ; Herzog,  Real-Encyklop. 
vi,  287  sq. ; Ilirzel,  J.  II.  Hottinger  der  Oi'ientalist  d.  17 
Jahrhunderts  ; Bayle,  Ilist.  Diet,  ii,  525  sq. ; Bibliotheca 
Sacra,  vii,  63. 

Hottinger,  Johann  Heinrich,  2,  a Swiss  Protes- 
tant theologian,  grandson  of  the  preceding,  was  born  at 
I Zurich  Dec.  5, 1681.  He  studied  theology  at  the  unit 
versities  of  Zurich,  Geneva,  and  Amsterdam,  and  in  1704 
was  appointed  professor  of  philosophy  at  Marburg.  In 
1705  he  became  professor  of  Hebrew  antiquities,  and 
in  1710  professor  of  theology.  To  strictly  Calvinistic 
views  he  added  most  of  Cocceius’s  principles,  and  from 
this  mixture  resulted  a system  of  his  own,  which  he 
set  forth  in  a treatise  on  dogmatics, entitled  Typus  Doc- 
trines Christiance  (Francf.  ad  Main,  1714,  8vo).  This 
work  created  great  excitement ; the  author  was  ac- 
cused of  inculcating  mystical  doctrines,  and  was  obliged 
to  resign  his  position  in  1717.  Hottinger  retired  to 
Fraukenthal,  where  he  became  pastor  of  the  Reformed 
Church.  In  1721  he  was  appointed  professor  of  theol- 
ogy at  Heidelberg,  where  lie  died  April  7, 1750.  The 
most  important  of  his  later  writings  are  Disquisitio  de 
Rerelationibus  extraordinariis  in  genere  et  de  quibusdam 
hodiemiis  vulgo  dictis  inspiratis  in  specie  (1717,  8vo), 
in  which  he  treats  of  the  prophets  of  the  Cevennes,  who 
were  just  then  attracting  great  attention  in  Germany. 
— Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  239;  Hilgenfeld, 
Zeitschrift  f.  ■wisscnsehaftl.  Theol.  1868,  p.  31.  (J.  N.  IV) 

Hottinger,  Johann  Jakob,  1,  son  of  Johann 
Heinrich,  No.  1,  was  born  at  Zurich  Dec.  1, 1652.  He 
studied  theology  at  Zurich  and  Basle,  and  became,  in 
1680,  pastor  of  Stall  ikon,  near  Zurich.  In  1686  lie  was 
appointed  dean  of  the  cathedral  of  Zurich,  and  in  1698 
professor  of  theology  in  the  university  of  that  place. 
He  died  Dec.  18, 1735.  Hottinger  labored  earnestly  to 
establish  a union  of  the  Protestant  churches,  anil  with 
that  view  published  his  Diss.  irenica  de  reritatis  et  char- 
itatis  in  ecclesiee  Protestantium  connubio  (1721).  He  was 
an  ardent  opponent  of  the  Roman  Church,  and  wrote 


HOTTINGER 


365 


IIOUGII 


against  it  liis  Dissertatio  scecularis  de  necessaria  majo- 
ruin  ub  ecclesia  Romana  secessione  (1719).  His  princi- 
pal other  works  are,  Jlelcetische  Kirchengeschichte  (1698— 
1729,  1 vols.  4to) : — Uebe r d.  Zustand  de r Seek  nach  dem 
Tode  (1715) : — Die  christliche  Lehre  v.  d.  heilsamen  Gnade 
Gottes  ( 1 7 1 G) : — Historia  formulae  consensus  (17*23): — 
Fata  doctrines  de preedestinatione.  et  gratia  Dei  (1727), 
etc. — Picrer,  Universal- Lexikon,  s.  v. ; llerzog,  Real-En - 
cgklop.  vi,  290  sq. ; Hocfer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gener.  xxv,  238 
sq. ; Walcli,  Bibliolh.  Theolog.  (see  Index) ; Fuhrmanu, 
Handicorterbuch  d.  Kh'chengesch.  ii,  354 ; Gass,  Dogmen- 
geschichte,  iii,  78  sq. 

Hottinger,  Johann  Jakob,  2,  nephew  of  a 
grandson  of  the  foregoing,  and  also  a distinguished  the- 
ologian, was  born  at  Zurich  May  18, 1783.  lie  was  ap- 
pointed professor  of  history  at  the  university  of  his  na- 
tive place  in  1844,  and  died  there  May  18,  1859.  His 
principal  works  are  Gesch.  d.  Selnveizer.  Kirchentrennung 
(Ziir.  1825-27,2  vols.Svo)  : — Jluldreich  Zwingli  u.s.Zcit 
(ibid.  1841,  Svo).  He  also  edited,  in  connection  with 
Ybgeli,  Bullingcr’s  Reformeitionsgesch.  (vol.  i— iii,  Frauenf. 
1 840,  Svo).  Sec  Picrer,  Univ.  Lexikon,  viii,  358 ; Hoefer, 
Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  239;  Brockhaus,  Corn'.  Lex. 
viii,  108. 

Houames  is  the  name  of  a Mohammedan  sect  of 
roving  licentious  Arabians,  who  dwell  in  tents,  as  is  the 
custom  of  the  Arabians.  “ They  have  a particular  law, 
by  which  they  arc  commanded  to  perform  their  cere- 
monies and  prayers  under  a pavilion,  without  any  light, 
after  which  they  lie  with  the  first  woman  they  can 
meet.”  Some  followers  of  this  sect  arc  living  concealed 
at  Alexandria  and  other  places.  They  arc  not  tolerated 
by  their  fellow-countrymen,  and  are  burnt  alive  if  dis- 
covered. The  name  given  them  signifies  in  Arabic 
tricked,  lascivious , or  abominable  persons.  See  Brough- 
ton, Biblioth.  Hist.  Sac.  i,  495.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Houbigant,  Charles  Francois,  a French  priest 
of  the  Oratory,  and  an  eminent  Biblical  scholar,  was 
born  at  Paris  in  1G8G.  Rejoined  his  order  in  1704,  and 
soon  became  distinguished  for  his  great  attainments. 
He  lectured  successively  on  belles-lettres  at  Jeuilly,  on 
rhetoric  at  Marseilles,  and  on  philosophy  at  Soissons, 
and  was  called  to  Paris  in  1722  to  conduct  the  confer- 
ences of  St.  Magloire.  His  devotion  to  the  duties  re- 
quired by  these  new  offices  produced  a serious  illness, 
which  terminated  in  total  deafness.  Being  thus  inca- 
pacitated for  public  duty,  he  devoted  all  his  time  to 
study,  applying  himself  especially  to  the  Oriental  lan- 
guages. Towards  the  close  of  his  long  career,  his  intel- 
lectual faculties  became  impaired  in  consequence  of  a 
fall.  He  died  at  Paris  October  31,  1783.  In  1772  he 
founded  a school  for  girls  at  Avilly,  where  he  had  a 
country  residence,  and  at  his  death  he  left  an  annual  in- 
come of  175  francs  to  that  institution,  liis  principal 
amusement  was  to  set  in  type  and  print  his  works  him- 
self, and  for  that  purpose  he  established  a printing- 
room  in  his  country  house.  He  wrote  Racines  de  la 
Langue  Hebraique  (Paris,  1732,  8vo)  in  verse,  in  imita- 
tion of  the  Racines-Grecques  of  liort-Iloyal.  In  the 
preface  Houbigant  defends  Masclef s system,  and  at- 
tempts to  prove  the  uselessness  and  danger  of  vowel 
points  in  the  study  of  Hebrew : — Prolegomena  in  Scrip- 
turam  Sacrum  (Paris,  174G,  4to).  In  this  work  he  follows 
Cappel,  seeking  to  prove  that  the  original  text  of  the 
O.  T.  has  undergone  alterations  which,  without  touch- 
ing on  points  of  dogma  or  of  morals,  tend  to  obscure  the 
sense ; and  he  gives  rules  by  which  these  faults,  due  most- 
ly to  the  carelessness  of  copyists,  may  be  discovered  and 
corrected: — Conferences  de  Metz.  In  this  work,  pub- 
lished without  name  of  place  or  date,  he  gives  a popular 
expose  of  the  principles  of  criticism  developed  in  the 
preceding  work : — Psalmi  Ilcbraid  mendis  qitam  pluri- 
mis  expurgati  (Leyden,  1748,  lGmo),  the  text  corrected 
according  to  the  principles  laid  down  by  the  author  in 
his  Prolegomena : — Biblia  Ilebraica  cum  notis  criticis  et 
versione  Latina  ad  notas  criticas  facta;  accedunt  libri 


Greed  qui  deutero-canonid  vocantur , in  tres  classes  dk- 
tributi  (Paris,  1753  and  1754,  4 vols.  fol.).  This  work, 
which  cost  its  author  twenty  years’  labor,  was  published 
by  the  Congregation  of  the  Oratory  at  an  expense  of 
40,000  francs.  It  is  very  carefully  executed,  and  is 
printed  in  two  columns,  one  containing  the  text  and  the 
other  the  translation.  The  text,  printed  without  vowel 
points,  is  but  a reprint  of  Van  der  Ilooght’s  edition  of 
1705.  The  corrections  proposed  by  Houbigant  (who 
makes  no  account  of  the  Keri  and  Kethib  of  the  Maso- 
rites),  arc  placed  either  in  the  margin  or  in  the  form  of 
tables  at  the  end  of  each  volume.  The  corrections  of 
the  Pentateuch  are  taken  from  the  Samaritan  Codex,  to 
which  Houbigant,  as  well  as  Morin,  attached  undue  im- 
portance; others  arc  taken  from  various  MSS.  belong- 
ing tc  the  Congregation  of  the  Oratory,  or  to  the  Impe- 
rial Library  of  Paris,  but  arc  not  fully  indicated  by  him ; 
a large  number,  finally,  are  merely  conjectural,  and  de- 
rived from  the  application  of  his  principles  of  criticism 
contained  in  the  Prolegomena.  These  corrections  have 
not  received  the  approbation  of  competent  judges.  Ilou- 
bigant  appears  not  to  have  had  a very  clear  idea  of  the 
relative  value  of  his  authorities,  and  lie  has  been  ac- 
cused of  want  of  thoroughness  in  his  knowledge  of  He- 
brew, as  well  as  of  arbitrariness  in  his  corrections.  The 
Latin  translation  was  published  separately,  under  the 
title  Veteris  Testamenti  versio  nova  (Paris,  1753,  5 vols. 
8vo) ; the  critical  notes  and  Prolegomena  have  also  been 
printed  separately,  under  the  title  Notes  Critical  in  uni- 
versos  Veteris  Testamenti  libros,  cum  11 (brake  turn  Grace 
scrijjtos,  cum  integris  Prolegonienis,  ad  exemplar  Parisi- 
ense  denuo  recensm  (Francf.  ad  Main,  1777,  2 vols.  4 to). 
Houbigant  translated  bishop  Sherlock’s  Sermons  and 
Leslie’s  Method  with  the  Deist  into  French.  He  left  a 
large  number  of  MSS.  which  were  never  published.  See 
Cadry,  Notice  sur  la  Vie  et  les  Ouvrages  du  P.  Houbigant 
(in  the  Magasin  Enqjclopediqite,  May,  180G) ; G.  \V. 
Meyer,  Gesch.  d.  Schrifterkldr.  iv,  154-15G,  2G4-270.  4G5, 
4GG;  Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  241  sq. ; Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop.  ii,  158;  Schrbckh,  Kirchtngesch.  s. 
d.  Ref.  vii,  1G8;  viii,  50. 

Houdayer,  Julien,  a French  theologian,  was  bom 
at  Noyen  in  15G2.  In  1595  he  was  appointed  rector  of 
the  Sorbonnc,  and  later  filled  several  positions  of  dis- 
tinction in  the  Boman  Catholic  Church  of  France.  He 
died  Nov.  28, 1619.  His  only  theological  work  is  Du 
Devoir  des  Cures  (Le  Mans,  1612, 12mo). — Iloefcr,  A oar. 
Biog.  Gener  ale,  xxv,  247. 

Houdry,  Vincent,  a French  Jesuit  preacher  and 
religious  writer,  was  born  at  Tours  January  22,  1631. 
He  entered  the  order  in  1G44,  preached  some  thirty 
years,  and  then  devoted  his  time  to  writing  only.  He 
died  March  29, 1729.  His  principal  works  arc  Sermons 
sur  tons  les  sujets  de  la  Morale  Chretienne  (Paris,  1G9G, 
etc.,  20  vols.  12mo):—  Trait e de  la  maniere  d'imiter  les 
bons predicateurs  (Par.  1702, 12mo);  and  most  especially 
Bibliotheque  des  Predicateurs : contenant  les  prindpaux 
sujets  de  la  morale  Chret.  (Par.  1712,  etc.,  23  vols.  4to). — 
Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  258;  Chandon  and 
Delandine,  Nouv.  Diet.  Hist,  xvi,  313. 

Houel,  Nicolas,  a French  philanthropist  of  the  IGth 
century.  He  founded  at  Paris  the  Maison  de  la  Chat'- 
ite  Chretienne  in  1578.  Two  years  later  he  published 
his  Avertissement  et  declaration  de  V Institution  de.  la 
Charite  Chretienne  (Par.  1580, 8vo). — Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog. 
Gener  ale,  xxv,  258  sq. 

Hough  pE?,  akker’,  Piel  of  to  extirpate ),  a 
method  employed  by  the  ancient  Israelites  to  render 
useless  the  captured  horses  of  an  enemy  (Josh,  xi,  G; 
comp.  Gen.  xlix,  6),  as  they  were  not  allowed  or  able  to 
use  that  animal  (so  also  2 Sam.  viii, 4;  1 Chron.  xviii, 
4).  It  consisted  in  hamstringing , i.  c.  severing  “ the  ten- 
don Achilles”  of  the  hinder  legs  (Sept.  vtvnonoTrnv ; 
compare  ’ akar ; Syr.  the  same,  Barhcbr.  p.  220).  The 
practice  is  still  common  in  Arab  warfare  (Bosenmiiller, 
Distitut.  juris  Moham.  circa  bellum,  § 17).  See  Horse. 


HOUGH 


366 


HOUR 


Hough,  John,  D.D.,  1,  a distinguished  English  di- 
vine, born  in  Middlesex  in  1G51,  and  educated  at  Mag- 
dalen College,  Oxford,  of  which  he  was  elected  president 
in  1687,  in  spite  of  the  mandamus  of  king  James  II,  who 
endeavored  to  procure  the  election  to  the  headship  of  the 
college  first  of  Anthony  Farmer,  and  then  of  Dr.  Samuel 
Parker  (q.  v.),  bishop  of  Oxford,  both  Human  Catholics 
in  belief,  and  neither  of  them  fellows  of  the  college,  as 
the  statute  required.  Lord-commissioners  having  been 
sent  to  enforce  the  royal  mandates  on  the  students, 
Hough,  together  writh  twenty-six  out.  of  the  twenty-  I 
eight  fellows  of  the  college,  courageously  protested 
against  their  arbitrary  proceedings,  and  refused  to  de- 
liver the  keys  of  the  college.  Finally,  in  Oct.  1687,  Dr. 
Parker  was  by  main  force  i retailed  in  Hough’s  place. 
“The  nation,  as  -well  as  the  university,  looked  on  all 
this  proceeding  with  a just  indignation.  It  was  thought 
an  open  piece  of  robbery  and  burglary,  when  men  au- 
thorized by  no  legal  commission  came  forcibly  and  turn- 
ed men  out  of  their  possession  and  freeholds’  (bishop 
Burnet).  “ The  protest  of  Hough  was  everywhere  ap- 
plauded ; the  forcing  of  his  door  was  everywhere  men- 
tioned with  abhorrence.”  Less  than  a year  after,  James 
II,  under  the  pressure  of  political  events,  thought  it  pru- 
dent, however,  to  retrace  his  steps,  and  to  conciliate 
Hough  and  his  adherents.  The  former  was  restored  to 
his  position  as  president.  After  the  Revolution,  Hough 
became  successively  bishop  of  Oxford  in  1690;  of  Lich- 
field and  Coventry  in  1699;  and  finally,  after  refusing 
the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury,  bishop  of  Worcester  in 
1717.  He  died  in  1743.  Hough  wrote  Sermons  and 
Charges , published  with  a Memoir  of  his  Life , by  Wil- 
liam Russell,  B.D.  etc.  (Oxf.  1821);  and  other  occasional 
sermons. — Darling,  Cyclopaedia  Bihliographica , i,  1554; 
Macaulay,  History  of  England,  voh  ii ; Allibone,  Diction- 
ary of  A uthors,  i,  897 ; McMasters,  L’iog.  Ind.  to  Hume's 
History  of  England , p.  363  sq. ; Stoughton  (John),  Ec- 
cles.  Hist,  of  England  (Loud.  1870),  ii,  133  sq. 

Hough,  John,  D.D.,  2,  a Congregational  minis- 
ter, was  bom  in  Stamford,  Conn.,  August  17, 1783.  lie 
graduated  at  Yale  in  1802,  then  studied  divinity,  and 
■was  sent  in  1806  as  missionary  to  Vermont,  where  l.e 
•was  ordained  pastor  at  Vergennes  in  1807.  This  pas- 
torate he  resigned  in  1812,  and  became  professor  of  lan- 
guages in  Middlebury  College,  Vt.  Here  he  remained 
twenty-seven  years,  occupying  several  chairs  in  turn. 
He  left  in  1839,  and  was  some  time  in  the  service  of  the 
Colonization  Society.  In  1841  he  was  installed  pastor 
at  Windham,  Ohio.  He  obtained  a dismission  in  1850, 
on  account  of  failing  eyesight,  which  finally  became 
blindness.  He  died  at  Fort  Wayne,  Indiana,  July  17, 
1861.  Hough  v’as  eminently  successful  and  popular  as 
an  instructor.  He  published  three  sermons,  preached  at 
ordinations  (1810, 1823, 1826),  and  was  one  of  the  editors 
of  “ The  Adi'iser,  or  Vermont  Evangelical  Magazine.” — 
Congrcg.  Quart,  iii,  378 ; Wilson,  Presbyt.  Historical  A l- 
munac,  1862,  p.  186. 

Houghtaling,  J.  B.,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minis- 
ter, was  horn  in  Northeast,  Dutchess  Co.,  N.  Y.,  Oet.  9, 
1797;  studied  law  for  five  years,  from  1813;  was  con- 
verted about  1817,  and  entered  the  itinerant  ministry 
in  1828.  He  was  appointed  agent  of  the  Troy  Confer- 
ence Academy  in  1835,  and,  on  account  of  poor  health, 
took  a supernumerary  relation  in  1847,  which  he  retain- 
ed until  his  death  in  1856  or  7.  He  was  a very  useful 
preacher  and  an  excellent  pastor.  His  business  abilities 
were  fine,  and  he  was  for  many  years  secretary  of  the 
Troy  Conference,  and  twice  assistant  secretary  of  the 
General  Conference.  — Minutes  of  Conferences,  vi,  353. 
(G.L.T.) 

Hour  (Chald.  shook',  a moment,  prop,  a look, 
i.  q.  “the  wink  of  an  eye”  [Germ.  A ugenhlich~\  ; Greek 
toga),  a term  first  found  in  Dan.  iii,  6;  iv,  19,  33;  v,  5; 
and  occurring  several  times  in  the  Apocrypha  (Judith 
xix,  8 ; 2 Esd.  ix,  44).  It  seems  to  be  a vague  expres- 
sion for  a short  period,  and  the  frequent  phrase  “in  the 


same  hour”  means  “ immediately :”  hence  we  find 
substituted  in  the  Targum  for  “in  a moment” 

(Numb,  xvi,  21,  etc.).  The  corresponding  Gr.  term  is 
frequently  used  in  the  same  way  bv  the  N.-T.  writers 
(Matt,  viii,  13 ; Luke  xii,  39,  etc.).  The  word  hour  is 
sometimes  used  in  Scripture  to  denote  some  determinate 
season,  as  “ mine  hour  is  not  yet  come,”  “ this  is  your 
hour,  and  the  power  of  darkness,”  “ the  hour  is  coming,” 
etc.  It  occurs  in  the  Sept,  as  a rendering  for  various 
words  meaning  time,  just  as  it  does  in  Greek  writers 
long  before  it  acquired  the  specific  meaning  of  our  word 
“ hour.”  Saak  is  still  used  in  Arabic  both  for  an  hour 
and  a moment. 

The  ancient  Hebrews  were  probably  unacquainted 
with  the  division  of  the  natural  day  into  twenty-four 
parts.  The  general  distinctions  of  “ morning,  evening, 
and  noonday”  (Psa.  lv,  17 ; comp.  Gen.  xv,  12;  xviii,  1 ; 
xix,  1,  15,  23)  were  sufficient  for  them  at  first,  as  they 
were  for  the  early  Greeks  (Homer,  II.  xxi,  3,  111) ; af- 
terwards the  Greeks  adopted  five  marked  periods  of  the 
day  (Jul.  Pollux,  Onom.  i,  68 ; Dio  C’hrysost.  Orat.  in  De 
Glor.),  and  the  Hebrews  parcelled  out  the  period  be- 
tween sunrise  and  sunset  into  a series  of  minute  divi- 
sions distinguished  by  the  sun’s  course,  as  is  still  done 
by  the  Arabs,  who  have  stated  forms  of  prayers  for  each 
period  (Lane’s  Mod.  Eg.  vol.  i,  cli.  iii).  See  Day. 

The  early  Jews  appear  to  have  divided  the  day  into 
four  parts  (Neh.  ix,  3),  and  even  in  the  N.  T.  we  find  a 
trace  of  this  division  in  Matt,  xx,  1-5.  There  is,  how- 
ever, no  proof  of  the  assertion  sometimes  made,  that  thga 
in  the  Gospels  may  occasionally  mean  a space  of  three 
hours.  It  has  been  thought  by  some  interpreters  (see 
Wolfii  Curai  in  A7.  T.  ad  John  xix,  14)  that  the  evangel- 
ist John  always  computes  the  hours  of  the  day  after  the 
Roman  reckoning,  i.  e.  from  midnight  to  midnight  (see 
Pliny,  / list.  Xat.  ii,  79 ; Aul.  Cell.  Xoct.  A it.  iii,  2) ; but 
this  is  without  support  from  Hebrew  analogy,  and  obliges 
the  gratuitous  supposition  of  a reckoning  also  from  mid- 
day (against  John  xi,  9). 

The  Greeks  adopted  the  division  of  the  day  into 
twelve  hours  from  the  Babylonians  (Herodotus,  ii,  109; 
comp.  Rawlinson,  Herod,  ii,  334).  At  what  period  the 
Jews  became  first  acquainted  with  this  way  of  reckon- 
ing time  is  unknown,  but  it  is  generally  supposed  that 
they,  too,  learned  it  from  the  Babylonians  during  the 
Captivity  (Wiihner,  A nt.  Hehr.  § v,  i,  8,  9).  They  may 
have  had  some  such  division  at  a much  earlier  period, 
as  has  been  inferred  from  the  fact  that  Ahaz  erected 
a sun-dial  in  Jerusalem,  the  use  of  which  had  probably 
been  learned  from  Babylon.  There  is,  however,  the 
greatest  uncertainty  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  word 
rfbv'2  (A.  V.  “degrees,”  Isa.  xxxviii,  8).  See  Dial. 
It  is  strange  that  the  Jews  were  not  acquainted  with 
this  method  of  reckoning  even  earlier,  for,  although  a 
purely  conventional  one,  it  is  naturally  suggested  by  the 
months  in  a year.  Sir  G.  Wilkinson  thinks  that  it  arose 
from  a less  obvious  cause  (Rawlinson,  Herod,  ii,  334). 
In  whatever  way  it  originated,  it  was  known  to  the 
Egyptians  at  a very  early  period.  They  had  twelve 
hours  of  the  day  and  of  the  night  (called  Xau  ~ hour), 
each  of  which  had  its  own  genius,  drawn  with  a star  on 
its  head.  The  word  is  said  by  Lepsius  to  be  found  as 
far  back  as  the  fifth  dynasty  (Rawlinson,  Herod,  ii,  135). 
The  night  was  divided  into  twelve  equal  portions  or 
hours,  in  precisely  the  same  manner  as  the  day.  The. 
most  ancient  division,  however,  was  into  three  watches 
(.1  nt.  lxiii,  6:  xc,  4)— the  first,  or  beginning  of  the 
i watches,  as  it  is  called  (Lam.  ii.  19) ; the  middle  watch 
(Judg.  vii,  19)  ; and  the  morning  watch  (Exod.  xiv,  24). 
See  Watch.  When  Judaea  became  a province  of  Rome, 
the  Roman  distribution  of  the  night  into  four  watches 
was  introduced;  to  which  division  frequent  allusions 
occur  m the  New  Testament  (Luke  xii,  38;  Matt,  xiv, 
25;  xiii,  35),  as  well  as  to  that  of  hours  (Matt,  xxv,  13; 
xxvi,  40;  Mark  xiv,  37 ; Luke  xvii,  59;  Acts  xxiii,  23; 
Rev.  iii,  3).  See  Cock-crowing. 


HOUR-GLASS  STAND 


367 


HOURS 


There  are  two  kinds  of  hours,  viz.  (1.)  the  astronom- 
ical or  equinoctial  hour,  i.  e.  the  twenty-fourth  part  of  a 
civil  day,  which,  although  “known  to  astronomers,  was 
not  used  in  the  affairs  of  common  life  till  towards  the 
end  of  the  4th  century  of  the  Christian  a?ra”  (Smith, 
Did.  of  Classical  A ntiq.  s.  v.  Ilora);  and  (2.)  the  natu- 
ral hour  (such  the  Itabbis  called  fYp3  jT,  tcaipucai , or 
temporales),  i.  e.  the  twelfth  part  of  the  natural  day,  or 
of  the  time  between  sunrise  and  sunset.  These  are  the 
hours  meant  in  the  New  Test.,  Josephus,  and  the  Rabbis 
(John  xi,  9;  Acts  v,  7 ; xix,  31 ; Josephus,  Ant.  xiv,  4, 
3),  and  it  must  be  remembered  that  they  perpetually 
vary  in  length,  so  as  to  be  very  different  at  different 
times  of  the  year.  Besides  this,  an  hour  of  the  day 
would  always  mean  a different  length  of  time  from  an 
hour  of  the  night,  except  at  the  equinox.  From  the 
consequent  uncertainty  of  the  term  there  arose  the  pro- 
verbial expression  “not  all  hours  are  equal”  (R.  Joshua 
ap.  Carpzov,  .-1  pp.  Crit.  p.  345).  At  the  equinoxes  the 
third  hour  would  correspond  to  nine  o’clock ; the  sixth 
would  always  be  at  noon.  To  find  the  exact  time  meant 
at  other  seasons  of  the  year,  >ve  must  know  when  the 
sun  rises  in  Palestine,  and  reduce  the  hours  to  our  reck- 
oning accordingly  (Jahn,  Biblic.  Arch.  § 101).  In  an- 
cient times  the  only  way  of  reckoning  the  progress  of 
the  day  was  by  the  length  of  the  shadow — a mode  of 
reckoning  which  was  both  contingent  on  the  sunshine, 
and  served  only  for  the  guidance  of  individuals.  See 
Shadow.  By  what  means  the  Jews  calculated  the 
length  of  their  hours — whether  by  dialling,  by  the  clep- 
sydra or  water-clock,  or  by  some  horologieal  contrivance, 
like  what  was  used  anciently  in  Persia  (Josephus,  Ant. 
xi,  G),  and  by  the  Romans  (Martial,  viii,  Epig.  G7 ; Juv. 
Sat.  x,  214),  and  which  is  still  used  in  India  (.4  suit.  Re- 
searches^ v,  88),  a servant  notifying  the  intervals — it  is 
now  impossible  to  discover  (see  Buttinghausen,  Speci- 
men horamm  lleb.  et  Arab.  Tr.  ad  llh.  1758).  Mention 
is  also  made  of  a curious  invention  called  "liiat 


by  which  a figure  was  constructed  so  as  to  drop  a stone 
into  a brazen  basin  every  hour,  the  sound  of  which  was 
heard  for  a great  distance,  and  announced  the  time 
(Otho,  Lex.  Rub.  s.  v.  Ilora). 

For  the  purposes  of  prayer,  the  old  division  of  the  day 
into  four  portions  was  continued  in  the  Temple  service, 
as  we  see  from  Acts  ii,  15;  iii,  1 ; x,  9.  The  stated  pe- 
riods of  prayer  were  the  third,  sixth,  and  ninth  hours 
of  the  day  (1’sa.  xlv,  17  ; Josephus,  Ant.  iv,  4,  3).  The 
Jews  supposed  that  the  third  hour  had  been  consecrated 
by  Abraham,  the  sixth  by  Isaac,  and  the  ninth  by  Ja- 
cob (Kimehi ; Schbttgcn,  //or.  I lehr,  ad  Acts  iii,  1).  It 
is  probable  that  the  canonical  hours  observed  by  the 
Romanists  (of  which  there  are  eight  in  the  twenty-four) 
are  derived  from  these  Temple  hours  (Goodwin,  J loses 
and  Aaron,  iii,  9).  See  Hours,  Canonical. 

The  Rabbis  pretend  that  the  hours  were  divided  into 
1080  Qip'bn  (minutes),  and  5G,84S  (seconds), 

which  numbers  were  chosen  because  they  are  so  easily 
divisible  (Gem.  Ilier.  Leruchoth,  2,  4;  in  Reland,  Ant. 
Jlebr.  iv,  1,  § 19).  See  True. 

Hour-glass  Stand,  a frame  of  iron  for  the  hour- 
glass, often  placed  near  the  pulpit 
after  the  Reformation  in  England. 
They  were  almost  universally  in- 
i troduced  in  churches  during  the 
lGth  century,  and  continued  in 
use  until  about  fifty  years  ago,  to 
regulate  the  length  of  sermons. 
Some  of  them  are  yet  to  be  seen, 
as  at  Wolvercot  and  Becklev,  in 
Oxfordshire,  and  Leigh  Church, 
in  Kent.  One  was  recently  set 
up  in  the  Savoy  Chapel. — Parker, 
Hour-glass  Stand  at  Glossary  of  Architecture,  p.  127; 

Church,  Kent,  L.  A M.  p.  817. 

Houris,  a designation  by  Europeans  of  those  imag- 
inary beings  whose  company  in  paradise,  according  to 


the  Mohammedans’  belief,  is  to  form  the  principal  fe- 
licity of  the  believers.  The  name,  derived  from  Jnir  al 
oyun,  signifies  black-eyed.  They  arc  represented  in  the 
Koran  as  most  beautiful  virgins,  not  created  of  clay,  like 
mortal  women,  but  of  pure  musk,  and  endowed  with  im- 
mortal youth,  and  immunity  from  all  disease.  See  the 
Koran,  chap.  Iv,  Ivi  (Sale's  translation);  and  the  Prel. 
Disc.  s.  4 ; Brande  and  Cox,  Did.  of  Science,  Liter,  and 
Art,  ii,  153. 

Hours,  Canonical,  signifies,  in  ecclesiastical  usage, 
the  daily  round  of  prayers  and  praise  in  some  churches, 
both  ancient  and  modern.  The  ancient  order  of  these 
“ hours”  is  as  follows  : 

1.  Xodurns  or  Matins,  a service  performed  before  day- 
break (properly  a night  service),  called  vigils  by  the 
Council  of  Carthage  (398),  but  afterwards  the  first  hour 
after  dawn;  mentioned  by  Cyprian  as  midnight  and 
matins,  and  by  Athanasius  as  nocturns  and  midnight 
(Psa.  cxix,  G2-147 ; Acts  xvi,  25).  Cassian  and  Isidore 
say  this  season  was  first  observed  in  the  5th  century,  in 
the  monastery  of  Bethlehem,  in  memory  of  the  nativity. 

2.  Lauds,  a service  performed  at  daybreak,  following 
the  matin  shortly,  if  not  actually  joined  on  to  it,  men- 
tioned by  Basil  and  the  Apostolical  Constitutions. 

3.  Prime,  a service  performed  at  about  six  o’clock 
A.M.,  “the  first  hour,”  mentioned  by  Athanasius  (Psa. 
xcii,  2;  v,  3;  lix,  1G). 

4.  Tierce  or  Terce,  a service  performed  at  9 A.M., 
“ the  third  hour mentioned  by  Tertullian  with  Sexts 
and  Nones  (see  below),  as  commemorating  the  time 
when  the  disciples  were  assembled  at  Pentecost  (Acts 
ii,  15). 

5.  Sext,  a service  performed  at  noonday,  “ the  sixth 
hour,”  commemorating  Peter’s  praying  (Acts  x,  19). 

G.  Xones,  a service  performed  at  3 P.M.,  “the  ninth 
hour,”  commemorating  the  time  when  Peter  and  John 
went  up  to  the  Temple  (Acts  iii,  1). 

7.  Vespers,  a service  performed  in  the  early  evening; 
mentioned  by  Basil,  Ambrose,  and  Jerome,  and  by  the 
Apostolical  Constitutions  (which  we  cite  below),  to  com- 
memorate the  time  when  Christ  instituted  the  Eucha- 
rist, showing  it  was  the  eventide  of  the  world.  “ This 
hour  is  called  from  evening,  according  to  St.  Augustine, 
or  the  evening  star,  says  St.  Isidore.”  It  was  also  known 
as  the  office  and  t lie  hour  of  lights,  as,  until  the  8th  or 
9th  century,  was  usual  m the  East  and  at  Milan  ; also 
when  the  lamps  were  lighted  (Zech.  xiv,  7).  “The  Ro- 
man custom  of  saying  Vesper  after  Nones  then  came 
into  use  in  the  West”  (Walcott,  Sac.  A rchaiol.  p.  31G). 

8.  Cotnpline,  the  last  evening  or  “bedtime  service” 
(Psa.  cxxxii,  3) ; first  separated  from  Vespers  by  Bene- 
dict. 

The  office  of  Lauds  was,  however,  very  rarely  separ- 
ated from  that  of  Matins,  and  these  eight  hours  of  pray- 
er were  therefore  practically  only  seven,  founded  on  Da- 
vid’s habit  (Psa.  Iv,  17 ; cxix,  G2). 

The  Apostolical  Constitutions  (viii,  34)  mention  the 
hours  as  follows:  “Ye  shall  make  prayer  in  the  morn- 
ing, giving  thanks,  because  the  Lord  hath  enlightened 
you,  removing  the  night, and  bringing  the  day;  at  the 
third  hour,  because  the  Lord  then  received  sentence 
from  Pilate;  at  the  sixth, because  lie  was  crucified;  at 
the  ninth,  because  all  things  were  shaken  when  the  Lord 
was  crucified,  trembling  at  the  audacity  of  the  impious 
Jews, not  enduring  that  the  Lord  should  be  insulted;  at 
evening  giving  thanks,  because  he  hath  given  the  night 
for  rest  from  labor ; at  cock-crowing,  because  that  hour 
gives  glad  tidings  that  the  day  is  dawning  in  which  to 
work  the  works  of  light.”  Cassian  likewise  mentions 
the  observation  of  Tierce,  Sext,  and  Nones  in  monaster- 
ies. Tertullian  and  Pliny  speak  of  Christian  services 
before  daylight.  Jerome  names  Tierce,  Sext,  Nones, 
Vespers,  and  Lauds;  also  Augustine — for  the  two  latter 
hours,  however,  substituting  “ Early  Vigil.”  Archdea- 
con Freeman,  of  the  Church  of  England,  gives  ( Princi- 
ples of  Div.  Serv.  i,  219  sq.)  the  following  explanation, 
viz.  that  these  offices,  “ though  neither  of  apostolic  nor 


HOURS 


36S 


HOUSE 


early  post-apostolic  date  as  Church  sendees,  had,  never- 
theless, probably  existed  in  a rudimentary  form,  as  pri- 
vate or  household  devotions,  from  a very  early  period, 
and  had  been  received  into  the  number  of  recognised 
public  formularies  previous  to  the  reorganization  of  the 
Western  ritual  after  the  Eastern  model.”  “Various  rea- 
sons have  been  assigned  for  a deeper  meaning  in  the 
hours ; one  is,  that  they  are  the  thanksgiving  for  the 
completion  of  creation  on  the  seventh  day.  Another 
theory  beautifully  connects  them  with  the  acts  of  our 
Lord  in  his  passion : Evensong  with  his  institution  of 
the  Eucharist,  and  washing  the  disciples’  feet,  and  the 
going  out  to  Gethsemane ; Compline  with  his  agony  and 
bloody  sweat;  Matins  with  his  appearance  before  Caia- 
phas;  Prime  and  Tierce  with  that  in  the  presence  of 
Pilate  ; Tierce  also  with  his  scourging,  crown  of  thorns, 
and  presentation  to  the  people ; Sext  with  his  bearing 
the  cross,  the  seven  words,  and  crucifixion ; Nones  with 
his  dismission  of  his  Spirit,  descent  into  hell,  and  rout  of 
the  devil ; Vespers  with  his  deposition  from  the  cross 
and  entombment;  Compline  with  the  setting  of  the 
watch;  Matins  with  his  resurrection”  (Walcott, Sacred 
A rchceol.  p.  317).  Of  the  origin  of  these  “ hours,”  Bing- 
ham (. Antiquities  of  the  Christ.  Church,  bk.  xiii,  eh.  ix, 
p.66L  sq.)  says  that  “they  who  have  made  the  most  ex- 
act inquiries  can  find  no  footsteps  of  them  in  the  first 
three  ages,  but  conclude  that  they  came  first  into  the 
Church  with  the  monastic  life”  (compare  also  Pearson, 
Pr (elects  in  Act.  Apost.  hum.  3, 4).  It  is  observable  fur- 
ther, that  most  of  the  writers  of  the  fourth  age,  who 
speak  of  six  or  seven  hours  of  prayer,  speak  of  the  ob- 
servances of  the  monks  only,  and  not  of  the  whole  body 
of  the  Church.  Thus  Jerome,  Basil,  Gregory  of  Nyssa, 
Cassian,  Cassiodorus,  and  most  other  writers  of  the  early 
Christian  Church,  speak  but  of  three  hours  of  prayers ; 
thus,  also,  even  Chrysostom  himself,  who,  however,  when 
“speaking  of  the  monks  and  their  institutions  ( Homil . 
14  in  1 Tim.  p.  1599),  gives  about  the  same  number  of 
canonical  hours  as  others  do.”  Vet  it  is  very  likely 
even  that  in  some  Eastern  churches  these  hours  of  pray- 
ers might  have  been  practised  in  the  4tli  century,  and 
quite  certain  that  the  different  churches  observing  the 
hours  varied  greatly  both  as  to  the  number  of  the  hours 
and  the  service  in  their  first  original.  “At  the  time  of 
the  Bcformation,  the  canonical  hours  were  reduced  in 
the  Lutheran  Church  to  two,  morning  and  evening;  the 
Keformed  Church  never  observed  them”  (Brande  and 
Cox,  Diet,  of  Science,  Literat.  and  Art,  ii,  152).  In  the 
Church  of  England  these  services  were,  at  the  time  of 
the  English  Bcformation,  used  as  distinct  offices  only 
by  stricter  religious  persons  and  the  clergy.  At  the 
revision  of  the  liturgy  of  that  Church  under  Edward 
VI,  it  was  decided  to  have  “only  two  solemn  services 
of  public  worship  in  the  day,  viz.  Matins,  composed  of 
matins,  lauds,  and  prime ; and  Evensong,  consisting  of 
vespers  and  compline.”  In  the  Greek  Church,  Neale 
( Essays  on  Liturgiology  and  Church  Hist.,  Essay  i,  p.  6 
sq.)  says,  “ There  are  eight  canonical  hours;  prayers  are 
actually,  for  the  most  part,  said  three  times  daily — mat- 
ins, lauds,  and  prime,  by  aggregation  early  in  the  morn- 
ing; tierce,  sexts,  and  the  liturgy  (communion)  later; 
nones,  vespers,  and  compline,  by  aggregation  in  the 
evening.”  So,  also,  is  it  in  the  West.  “ Except  in  mo- 
nastic bodies,”  says  the  same  writer  (p.  46  sq.),  “the 
breviary  as  a church  office  is  scarcely  ever  used  as  a 
whole.  You  may  go,  we  do  not  say  from  church  to 
church,  but  from  cathedral  to  cathedral  of  Central  Eu- 
rope, and  never  hear  matins  save  at  high  festivals.  In 
Spain  and  Portugal  it  is  somewhat  more  frequent,  but 
there,  as  everywhere,  it  is  a clerical  devotion  exclusive- 
ly ...  . Then  the  lesser  hours  are  not  often  publicly 
said  except  in  cathedrals,  and  then  principally  by  ag- 
gregation, and  in  connection  with  mass In  no 

national  Church  under  the  sun  are  so  many  matin  ser- 
vices said  as  in  our  own.”  It  may  not  be  out  of  place 
here  to  add  that  seven  hours  formed  the  basis  of  the 
“Primers”  (q.  v.).  “ English  editions  of  these,  set  forth 


by  authority  in  the  reigns  of  Henry  VIII,  Edward  VI, 
and  of  queen  Elizabeth,  show  that  the  English  reform- 
ers did  not  wish  to  discourage  the  observance  of  the  an- 
cient hours  of  prayer.  As  late  as  1627,  by  command  of 
Charles  I,  bishop  Cosin  pnblished  a ‘Collection  of  Pri- 
vate Devotions  in  the  practice  of  the  ancient  Church, 
called  the  Hours  of  Prayer,  as  they  were  after  this  man- 
ner published  by  authority  of  queen  Elizabeth,  1560,’ 
etc.”  See,  besides  the  authorities  already  referred  to, 
Procter,  Prayer  Book,  chap,  i ; Blunt  (the  Rev.  J.  H.), 
Diet,  of  Doctrinal  and  Hist.  Theol.  (Loud.  1870),  i,  315; 
Siegel,  Christl-Kirchl.  A Iterthiimer,  i,  270  sq. ; iv,  65  sq. 
Compare  Canonical  ; Breviary.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hours  of  our  Lady,  the  title  of  a devotion  insti- 
tuted by  pope  Urban  II  at  the  Council  of  Clermont  in 
1095. — Walcott,  Sac.  A rchceol.  p.  318. 

House  (r"3,  ba'yith,  which  is  used  with  much  lat- 
itude, and  in  the  “construct”  form  TV'S,  beyth,  Angli- 
cized “Beth,”  [q.  v.]  enters  into  the  composition  of  many 
proper  names;  Gr.  olnoc,  or  some  derivative  of  it),  a 
dwelling  in  general,  whether  literally,  as  house,  tent, 
palace,  citadel,  tomb,  derivatively  as  tabernacle,  temple, 
heaven,  or  metaphorically  as  family.  See  Palace. 

I.  History  and  Sources  of  Comparison. — Although,  in 
Oriental  language,  every  tent  (see  Gesen.  Thes.\>.32)  may 
be  regarded  as  a house  (Harmer,  Obs.  i,  194),  yet  the  dis- 
tinction between  the  permanent  dwelling-house  and  the 
tent  must  have  taken  rise  from  the  moment  of  the  divis- 
ion of  mankind  into  dwellers  in  tents  and  builders  of 
cities,  i.  e.  of  permanent  habitations  (Gen.  i v,  17,  20 ; Isa. 
xxxviii,  12).  The  agricidtural  and  pastoral  forms  of  life 
are  described  in  Scripture  as  of  equally  ancient  origin. 
Cain  was  a husbandman,  and  Abel  a keeper  of  sheep. 
The  former  is  a settled,  the  latter  an  unsettled  mode  of 
life.  Hence  we  find  that  Cain,  when  the  murder  of  his 
brother  constrained  him  to  wander  abroad,  built  a town 
in  the  land  where  he  settled.  At  the  same  time,  doubt- 
less, those  who  followed  the  same  mode  of  life  as  Abel, 
dwelt  in  tents,  capable  of  being  taken  from  one  place  to 
another,  when  the  want  of  fresh  pastures  constrained 
those  removals  which  are  so  frequent  among  people  of 
pastoral  habits.  We  are  not  required  to  suppose  that 
Cain’s  town  was  more  than  a collection  of  huts.  See 
City.  Our  information  respecting  the  abodes  of  men  in 
the  ages  before  the  Deluge  is,  however,  too  scanty  to  af- 


ford much  ground  for  notice.  The  enterprise  at  Babel, 
to  say  nothing  of  Egypt,  shows  that  the  constructive  arts 
had  made  considerable  progress  during  that  obscure  hut 
interesting  period ; for  we  are  bound  in  reason  to  con- 
clude that  the  arts  possessed  by  man  in  the  ages  imme- 
diately following  the  Deluge  existed  before  that  great 
catastrophe.  See  Antediluvians. 

The  observations  offered  under  Architecture  will 
preclude  the  expectation  of  finding  among  this  Eastern 
people  that  accomplished  style  of  building  which  Vitru- 
vius requires,  or  that  refined  taste  by  which  the  Greeks 
and  Bomans  excited  the  admiration  of  foreign  nations. 
The  tents  in  which  the  Arabs  now  dwell  are  in  all  prob- 
ability the  same  as  those  in  Avhich  the  Hebrew  patriarchs 
spent  their  lives.  It  is  not  likely  that  what  the  Hebrews 
observed  in  Egypt,  during  their  long  sojourn  in  that  coun- 
try, had  in  this  respect  any  direct  influence  upon  their 
own  subsequent  practice  in  Palestine.  See  Tent.  Nev- 
ertheless, the  information  w hich  may  be  derived  from  the 
figures  of  houses  and  parts  of  houses  in  the  Egyptian 


HOUSE 


369 


HOUSE 


tombs  is  not  to  be  overlooked  or  slighted.  We  have  in 
them  the  only  representations  of  ancient  houses  in  that 
part  of  the  world  which  now  exist;  and  however  differ- 
ent may  have  been  the  state  architecture  of  Egypt  and 
Palestine,  we  have  every  reason  to  conclude  that  there 
was  considerable  resemblance  in  the  private  dwellings 


Model  of  an  ancient  Egyptian  Ancient  Assyrian  House 
three-storied  House,  in  calca-  (Konyouujik). 
reous  stone.  (In  the  British 
Museum.) 

of  these  neighboring  countries.  The  few  representations 
of  buildings  on  the  Assyrian  monuments  may  likewise 
be  of  some  assistance  in  completing  our  ideas  of  Hebrew 
dwellings.  The  Hebrews  did  not  become  dwellers  in 
cities  till  the  sojourn  in  Egypt  and  after  the  conquest  of 
Canaan  (Gen.  xlvii,  3 ; Exod.  xii,7;  Ileb.  xi,  9),  while 
the  Canaanites,  as  well  as  the  Assyrians,  were  from  an 
earlier  period  builders  and  inhabitants  of  cities,  and  it 
was  into  the  houses  and  cities  built  by  the  former  that 
the  Hebrews  entered  to  take  possession  after  the  conquest 
(Gen.  x.  II,  19;  xix,  1;  xxiii,  10;  xxxiv,  20;  Numb,  xi, 
27 ; Deut.  vi,  10, 11).  The  private  dwellings  of  the  As- 
syrians and  Babylonians  have  altogether  perished,  but 
the  solid  material  of  the  houses  of  Syria,  east  of  the  Jor- 
dan, may  perhaps  have  preserved  entire  specimens  of  the 
ancient  dwellings,  even  of  the  original  inhabitants  of  that 
region  (Porter,  Damascus,  ii,  195, 196;  C.  C.  Graham  in 
“ Camb.  Essays,”  1859,  p.  160,  etc. ; comp.  Buckingham, 
Arab  Tribes,  p.  171, 172). 

II.  Materials  and  general  Character. — There  is  no  rea- 
son to  suppose  that  many  houses  in  Palestine  were  con- 
structed with  wood.  A great  part  of  that  country  was 
always  very  poor  in  timber,  and  some  parts  of  it  had 
scarcely  any  wood  at  all.  But  of  stone  there  was  no 
want,  and  it  was  consequently  much  used  in  the  building 
of  houses.  The  law  of  Moses  respecting  leprosy  in  houses 
(Lev.  xiv, 33-40)  seems  to  prove  this,  as  the  characteris- 
tics there  enumerated  could  only  occur  in  the  case  of 
stone  walls.  Still,  when  the  Hebrews  intended  to  build 
a house  in  the  most  splendid  style  and  in  accordance  | 
with  the  taste  of  the  age,  as  much  wood  as  possible  was 
used.  Houses  in  the  East  were  frequently  built  of  burnt 
or  merely  dried  clay  bricks,  which  were  not  very  durable 
(Job  iv,  19 ; Matt,  vii,  26).  Such  were  very  liable  to  the 
attacks  of  burglars  (Job  xxi  v,  16 ; Matt,  vi,  1 9 ; xxiv,  1 6. 
See  Ilaekett’s  Illust.  of  Script,  p.  94).  The  better  class 
of  houses  were  built  of  stone,  the  palaces  of  squared  stone 
(l  Kings  vii,  9;  Isa.  ix,  10),  and  some  were  of  marble 
(1  Chron.  xxix,  2).  Lime  or  gypsum  (probably  with 
ashes  or  chopped  straw)  was  used  for  mortar  (Isa.  xxxiii, 
12;  Jer.  xliii,  9);  perhaps  also  asphaltum  (Gen.  xi,  3). 
A plastering  or  whitewashing  is  often  mentioned  (Lev. 
xiv,  41,42;  Ezek.  xiii,  10 ; Matt,  xxiii,  27) ; a wash  of 
colored  lime  was  chosen  for  palaces  (Jer.  xxii,  14).  The 
beams  consisted  chiefly  of  the  wood  of  the  sycamore, 
from  its  extreme  durability  (Isa.  ix,  10) ; the  acacia  and 
the  palm  were  employed  for  columns  and  transverse 
beams,  and  the  cypress  for  flooring-planks  (I  Kings  vi, 
15;  2 Chron.  iii,  5).  The  fir,  the  olive-tree,  and  cedars 
were  greatly  esteemed  (1  Kings  vii,  2;  Jer.  xxii,  14) ; but 
the  most  precious  of  all  was  the  alvnug-tree : this  wood 
seems  to  bave  been  brought  through  Arabia  from  India 
(l  Kings  x,  1 1, 1 2).  "Wood  was  used  in  the  construction 
IV,— A a. 


of  doors  and  gates,  of  the  folds  and  lattices  of  windows, 
of  the  flat  roofs,  and  of  the  wainscoting  with  which  the 
walls  were  ornamented.  Beams  were  inlaid  in  the  walls, 
to  which  the  wainscoting  was  fastened  by  nails  to  ren- 
der it  more  secure  (Ezra  vi,4).  Houses  finished  in  this 
manner  were  called  ceiled  houses  and  ceiled  chambers 
(Jer.  xxii,  14 ; llag.  5,  4).  The  lower  part  of  the  walls 
was  adorned  with  rich  hangings  of  velvet  or  damask 
dyed  of  the  liveliest  colors,  suspended  on  hooks,  and  taken 
down  at  pleasure  (Esth.  i,  0).  The  upper  part  of  the 
walls  was  adorned  with  figures  in  stucco,  with  gold,  silver, 
gems, and  ivory;  hence  the  expressions  “ivory  houses,” 
“ ivory  palaces,”  and  “ chambers  ornamented  with  ivory” 
(1  Kings  xxii, 39;  2 Chron. iii, 6;  Psa.xlv,8;  Amos, iii, 
15).  Metals  were  also  employed  to  some  extent,  as  lead, 
iron,  and  copper  are  mentioned  among  building  materi- 
als; but  especially  gold  and  silver  for  various  kinds  of 
solid,  plated,  and  inlaid  work  (Exod.  xxxvi,  3-1,88).  The 
ceiling,  generally  of  wainscot,  was  painted  with  great  art. 
In  the  days  of  Jeremiah  these  chambers  were  ceiled  with 
costly  and  fragrant  wood,  and  painted  with  the  richest 
colors  (Jer.  xxii,  14).  (See  each  of  these  parts  and  mate- 
rials in  their  alphabetical  place.)  The  splendor  and  mag- 
nificence of  an  edifice  seems  to  have  been  estimated  in  a 
measure  by  the  size  of  the  square  stones  of  which  it  was 
constructed  (1  Kings  vii,  9-12).  In  some  cases  these 
were  of  brilliant  and  variegated  lines  (1  Chron.  xxix, 2). 
The  foundation  stone,  which  was  probably  placed  at  the 
corner,  and  thence  called  the  corner  stone,  was  an  object 
of  peculiar  regard,  and  was  selected  with  great  care  from 
among  the  others  (Psa.cxviii,  22;  Isa.  xxviii,  16;  Matt, 
xxi, 42 ; Acts  iv,  11;  1 Pet.  ii,  6).  The  square  stones  in 
buildings,  as  far  as  we  can  ascertain  from  the  ruins  which 
yet  remain,  were  held  together,  not  by  mortar  or  cement 
of  any  kind,  except  a very  small  quantity  indeed  might 
have  been  used,  but  by  cramp  irons.  Walls  in  some 
cases  appear  to  have  been  covered  with  a composition 
of  chalk  and  gypsum  (Deut.  xxvii,  2;  comp.  Dan.  v,  5 ; 
Acts  xxiii,  3.  See  Chardin’s  Voyages,  ed.  Langles,  vol. 
iv).  The  tiles  dried  in  the  sun  were  at  first  united  by 
mud  placed  between  them,  afterwards  by  lime  mixed 
with  sand  to  form  mortar.  The  latter  was  used  with 
burnt  tiles  (Lev.  xiv,  41, 42;  Jer.  xliii,  9).  For  the  ex- 
ternal decoration  of  large  buildings  marble  columns  were 
employed  (Cant,  v,  15).  The  Persians  also  took  great 
delight  in  marble.  To  this  not  only  the  ruins  of  Tersep- 
olis  testify,  but  the  Book  of  Esther,  where  mention  is 
made  of  white,  red,  and  black  marble,  and  likewise  of 
veined  marble.  The  Scriptural  allusions  to  houses  re- 
ceive no  illustration  from  the  recently  discovered  monu- 
ments of  the  Mesopotamian  mounds, as  no  private  houses, 
either  of  Assyria  or  Babylonia,  have  been  preserved ; 
owing  doubtless  to  their  having  been  constructed  of  per- 
ishable mud  walls,  at  most  inclosed  only  with  thin  slabs 
of  alabaster  (Layard’s  Nineveh,  ii,  214).  See  Thjum.k. 

The  Hebrews  at  a very  ancient  date,  like  the  Orient- 
als, had  not  only  summer  and  winter  rooms  (Jer.  xxxvi, 
22;  see  Chardin,  iv,  119),  but  palaces  (Judg.  iii,  20;  1 
Kings  vii,  2-6;  Amos  iii,  15).  The  houses,  or  palaces 
so  called,  made  for  summer  residence,  were  very  spacious. 
The  lower  stories  were  frequently  under  ground.  The 
front  of  these  buildings  faced  the  north,  so  as  to  secure 
the  advantage  of  the  breezes,  which  in  summer  blow 
from  that  direction.  They  were  supplied  with  a current 
of  fresh  air  by  means  of  ventilators,  which  consisted  ol 
perforations  made  through  the  upper  part  of  the  northern 
wall,  of  considerable  diameter  externally,  but  diminishing 
in  size  as  they  approached  the  inside  of  the  wall.  See 
Dwki.ung. 

Houses  for  jewels  and  armor  were  built  and  furnished 
under  the  kings  (2  Kings  xx,  13).  The  draught-house 
(r,'"X“n*2;  kottmov  ; latrinw ) was  doubtless  a public 
litrine,  such  as  exists  in  modem  Eastern  cities  (2  Kings 
x,  27 ; Bussell,  i,  34). 

Leprosv  in  the  house  was  probably  a nitrous  efflores- 
cence on  the  walls,  which  was  injurious  to  the  salubrity 
of  the  house,  and  whose  removal  was  therefore  strictly 


HOUSE 


370 


HOUSE 


enjoined  by  the  law  (Lev.  xiv,  34, 55;  Kitto,  Phys.  Geoyr. 
of  Pal.  p.  112). 

* III.  Details  of  Hebrew  Dwellings. — In  inferring  the 
plan  and  arrangement  of  ancient  Jewish  or  Oriental 
houses,  as  alluded  to  in  Scripture,  from  existing  dwell- 
ings in  Syria,  Egypt,  and  the  East  in  general,  allowance 
must  be  made  for  the  difference  in  climate  between 
Egypt,  Persia,  and  Palestine,  a cause  from  which  would 
proceed  differences  in  certain  cases  of  material  and  con- 
struction, as  well  as  of  domestic  arrangement. 

1.  The  houses  of  the  rural  poor  in  Egypt,  as  well  as 
in  most  parts  of  Syria,  Arabia,  and  Persia,  are  for  the 
most  part  mere  huts  of  mud,  or  sun-burnt  bricks.  In 


lint  of  a Greek  peasant  formed  of  mud  imlieddiug  sticks 
and  straw.  (From  Fellowes's  Lycia.) 

some  parts  of  Palestine  and  Arabia  stone  is  used,  and  in 
certain  districts  caves  in  the  rock  are  used  as  dwellings 
(Amos  v,  11 ; Bartlett,  Walks,  \\  117).  See  Cave.  The 
houses  are  usually  of  one  story  only,  viz.  the  ground  floor, 
and  sometimes  contain  only  one  apartment.  Sometimes 
a small  court  for  the  cattle  is  attached;  and  in  some 
cases  the  cattle  are  housed  in  the  same  building,  or  the 
people  live  on  a raised  platform,  and  the  cattle  round 
them  on  the  ground  (1  Sam.  xxviii,  24 ; Irby  and  Man- 
gles, p.  70  ; Jolliffe,  Letters,  i,  43  ; Buckingham,  A rah 
Tribes,  p.  170 ; Burckhardt,  Travels,  ii,  119).  In  Lower 
Egypt  the  oxen  occupy  the  width  of  the  chamber  far- 
thest from  the  entrance : it  is  built  of  brick  or  mud,  about 
four  feet  high,  and  the  top  is  often  used  as  a sleeping- 
place  in  winter.  The  windows  are  small  apertures  high 
up  in  the  walls,  sometimes  grated  with  wood  (Burck- 
hardt, Travels,  i,  241 ; ii,  101, 119,  301,  329;  Lane,  Mod. 
Egyptians,  i,  44).  The  roofs  are  commonly,  but  not  al- 
ways, flat,  and  are  usually  formed  of  a plaster  of  mud  and 
straw  laid  upon  boughs  or  rafters;  and  upon  the  flat 
roofs,  tents  or  “booths”  of  boughs  or  rushes  are  often 
raised  to  be  used  as  sleeping-places  in  summer  (Irby  and 


Modern  Nestoriau  House,  with  stages  on  the  roof  for 
sleeping. 

Mangles,  p.  71  ; Niebuhr,  Descr.  p.  49,  53  ; Layard,  Kin. 
and  Bab.  p.  112;  Nineveh,  i,  17G;  Burckhardt,  Syria,  p. 
280;  Travels,  i,  190;  Van  Egmont,  ii,  32 ; Malan,  Mag- 
dala  and  Bethany, p.  15).  To  this  description  the  houses 
of  ancient  Egypt,  and  also  of  Assyria,  as  represented  in 


the  monuments,  in  great  measure  correspond  (Layard, 
M on.  of  Kin.  pt.  ii,  pi.  49, 50 ; Wilkinson,  A ncient  Eg.  i,  13 ; 
Martineau,  East.  IAfe,\,  19, 97).  In  the  towns  the  houses 
of  the  inferior  kind  do  not  differ  much  from  the  above 
description,  but  they  are  sometimes  of  more  than  one 
story,  and  the  roof-terraces  are  more  carefully  construct- 
ed. In  Palestine  they  are  often  of  stone  (Jolliffe,  i,  2G). 
In  the  inferior  kinds  of  Oriental  dwellings,  such  as  are 
met  with  in  villages  and  very  small  towns,  there  is  no 
central  court,  but  there  is  generally  a shaded  platform 
in  front.  The  village  cabins  and  abodes  of  the  peasant- 


Ordiuary  Houses  at  Beyront. 


ry  are,  of  course,  of  a still  inferior  description ; and,  being 
the  abodes  of  people  who  live  much  in  the  open  air,  will 
not  bear  comparison  with  the  houses  of  the  same  class  in 
Northern  Europe,  where  the  cottage  is  the  home  of  the 
owner.  (See  Jahn,  Bibl.  Archceol.  translated  by  Prof. 
Upham,  pt.  i.ch.ii.) 

2.  The  difference  between  the  poorest  houses  and  those 
of  the  class  next  above  them  is  greater  than  between 
these  and  the  houses  of  the  first  rank.  The  prevailing 
plan  of  Eastern  houses  of  this  class  presents,  as  -was  the 
case  in  ancient  Egypt,  a front  of  wall,  whose  blank  and 


Front  of  au  ancient  Egyptian  Residence. 


mean  appearance  is  usually  relieved  only  by  the  door 
and  a few  latticed  and  projecting  windows  ( Views  in 
Syria,  ii,  25).  The  privacy  of  Oriental  domestic  habits 
would  render  our  plan  of  throwing  the  front  of  the  house 
towards  the  street  most  repulsive.  The  doorway  or  door 
bears  an  inscription  from  the  Koran  as  the  ancient  Egyp- 
tian houses  had  inscriptions  over  their  doors,  and  as  the 


HOUSE 


371 


HOUSE 


Israelites  were  directed  to  write  sentences  from  the  Law 
over  t heir  gates.  See  Mezuzaii.  Over  the  door  is  usu- 
ally the  kiosk  (sometime's  projecting  like  a bay-window), 
or  screened  balcony, 
probably  the  “sum- 
mer parlor”  in  which 
Ehud  smote  the  king 
of  Moab  (Judg.  iii, 
.20),  and  the  “cham- 
ber on  the  wall.” 
which  the  Shunam- 
mito  prepared  lor  the 
prophet  (2  Kings  iv 


and  the  floor  strewed  with  carpets  on  festive  occasions 
(Shaw,  p.  208).  Around  part,  if  not  the  whole,  of  the 
court  is  a veranda,  often  nine,  or  ten  feet  deep,  over 
which,  when  there  is  more  than  one  floor,  runs  a second 
gallery  of  like  depth,  with  a balustrade  (Shaw,  p.  208). 
The  stairs  to  the  upper  apartments  or  to  the  roof  are 
often  shaded  by  vines  or  creeping-plants,  and  the  courts, 
especially  the  inner  ones,  planted  with  trees.  The  court 
has  often  a well  or  tank  in  it  (Psa.  cxxviii,  3;  2 Sam. 
xvii,  18;  Ihissell,  Aleppo , i,  21,  32;  Wilkinson,  i,  0,  8; 
Lane,  Mod.  Ey.  i,  32 ; 1 'ietrs  in  Syria,  i,  50).  See  Covut. 

On  entering  the  outer  court  through  this  passage  we 
find  opposite  to  ns  the  public  room,  in  which  the  master 
receives  and  gives  audience  to  fiis  friends  and  clients. 


Entrance  to  a house  in  Cairo. 
(From  Lane’s  Mod.  Egyptians.) 


10).  Besides  this. 

there  may  be  a small  This  is  entirely  open  in  front,  and,  being  richly  fitted 
latticed  window  or  up,  has  a splendid  appearance  when  the  first  view  of  it 
two  high  up  the  wall,  is  obtained.  A refreshing  coolness  is  sometimes  given 
giving  light  and  air  to  this  apartment  by  a foutain  throwing  up  a jet  of  wa- 
to  upper  chambers,  ter  in  front  of  it.  This  is  the  tcaTd\rpa,ar  yuest-ckam- 
which,  except  in  her,  of  Luke  xxii,  11;  not  necessarily  an  dvdyaiov,  or 
times  of  public  cele-  upper  chamber,  as  in  verse  12.  A large  portion  of  the 
brations,  is  usually  other  side  of  the  court  is  occupied  with  a frontage  of 
closed  (2  Kings  ix,  lattice-work  filled  with  colored  glass,  belonging  to  a room 
30;  Shaw,  Travels. p.  as  large  as  the  guest-chamber,  and  which  in  winter  is 
207 ; Lane,  Mod.  Ey.  used  for  the  same  purpose,  or  serves  as  the  apartment 
i,  27).  The  entrance  of  any  visitor  of  distinction,  who  cannot,  of  course,  be 
is  usually  guarded  admitted  into  the  interior  parts  of  the  house.  The 
within  from  sight  by  other  apartments  in  this  outer  court  are  comparatively 
a wall  or  some  ar-  small,  and  are  used  for  the  accommodation  of  visitors, 
rangement  of  the  passages.  In  the  passage  is  a stone  retainers,  and  servants.  See  (It- est-cii  amiieij. 
scat  for  the  porter  and  other  servants  (Lane,  Mod.  Ey.  i, 

32;  Chardin,  Voy.  iv,  111).  See  Dooit. 

The  buildings  which  form  the  house  front  towards 
an  inner  square  or  court.  Small  houses  have  one  of 
these  courts,  but  superior  houses  have  two,  and  first-rate 
houses  three,  communicating  with  each  other;  for  the  j 
Orientals  dislike  ascending  stairs  or  steps.  It  is  only  | 
when  the  building-ground  is  confined  by  nature  or  by 
fortifications  that  they  build  high  houses;  but,  from  the 
loftiness  of  the  rooms,  buildings  of  one  story  are  often 
as  high  as  houses  of  three  stories  among  ourselves.  If 
there  are  three  or  more  courts,  all  except  the  outer  one 
are  much  alike  in  size  and  appearance;  but  the  outer 
one,  being  devoted  to  the  more  public  life  of  the  occu- 
pant, and  to  his  intercourse  with  society,  is  materially 
different  from  all  the  others.  If  there  are  more  than 
two,  the  second  is  devoted  chiefly  to  the  use  of  the  mas- 
ter, who  is  there  attended  only  by  his  eunuchs,  children, 
and  females,  and  sees  only  such  persons  as  he  calls  from 
the  third  or  interior  court,  in  which  they  reside.  In 
the  history  of  Esther,  she  incurs  danger  by  going  from 
her  interior  court  to  that  of  the  king,  to  invite  him  to 
visit  her  part  of  the  palace;  but  she  would  not,  on  any 
account,  have  gone  to  the  outermost  court,  in  which  the 
king  held  his  public  audiences.  Some  of  the  finest 
houses  in  the  East  are  to  be  found  at  Damascus,  where 
in  some  of  them  are  seven  such  courts.  When  there 
are  only  two  courts,  the  innermost  is  the  harem,  in 
which  the  women  and  children  live,  and  which  is  the 
true  domicile  of  the  master,  to  which  he  withdraws 
when  the  claims  of  business,  of  society,  and  of  friends 
have  been  satisfied,  and  where  no  man  but  himself  ever 
enters,  or  could  be  induced  to  enter,  even  by  strong  per- 
suasions (Burckhardt,  Travels , i,  188;  Van  Egmont,  ii, 

21(5,253;  Shaw,  p.  207 ; Porter,  Damascus,  i,  34, 37,  GO ; 

Chardin,  Voyages,  vi,  6;  Lane,  Modern  Ey.  i,  173,  207). 

See  below. 

Entering  at  the  street  door,  the  above-named  pas- 
sage, 

court;  the  opening  from  the  passage  , — - — , - - r 

observed,  is  not  opposite  the.  gate  of  entrance,  but  by  a the  bed  through  the  veranda  roof,  or  in  the  latter,  down 
side  turn,  to  preclude  any  view  from  the  street  into  the  by  iruy  of  the  roof,  hu  rVv  tagapwr,  and  deposited  it 
court  when  the  gate  is  opened.  This  open  court  corre-  before  the  Saviour  (Shaw,  p.  212).  2.  Another  expla- 

sponds  to  the  ltoman  implnrium,  and  is  often  paved  with  nation  presents  itself  in  considering  the  room  where  the 
marble.  Into  this  the  principal  apartments  look,  and  company  were  assembled  as  the  vTrigiynr,  and  the  roof 
are  either  open  to  it  in  front,  or  are  entered  from  it  by  opened  for  the  bed  to  be  the  true  roof  of  the  house 
doors.  An  awning  is  sometimes  drawn  over  the  court,  (Trench,  Miracles,  p.  133  , Lane,  Modem  Ey.  i,  o9).  3. 


Court  of  a House  at  Antioch. 


In  the  better  class  of  houses  in  modern  Egypt,  the 
above  ground-floor  room  is  generally  the  apartment  for 
male  visitors,  called  mandarah,  having  a portion  of  the 
floor  sunk  below  the  rest,  called  durkd'ah.  This  is  often 
paved  with  marble  or  colored  tiles,  and  has  in  the  cen- 
tre a fountain,  'flic  rest  of  the  floor  is  a raised  platform 
called  It  man,  with  a mattress  and  cushions  at  the  back 
on  each  of  the  three  sides.  This  seat  or  sofa  is  called 
diwdn.  Every  person,  on  entrance,  takes  off  his  shoes 
on  the  durkd'ah  before  stepping  on  the  litrun  (Exod.  iii, 
5;  Josh,  v,  15;  Luke  vii,  38).  The  ceilings  over  the 
litrun  and  durkd'ah  are  often  richly  panelled  and  orna- 
mented (Jer.  xxii.  14).  See  Divan. 

Bearing  in  mind  that  the  reception-room  is  raised 
above  the  level  of  the  court  (Chardin,  iv,  1 18;  Vieus  in 
Syria,  i,  5G),  we  may,  in  explaining  the  circumstances 
of  the  miracle  of  the  paralytic  (Mark  ii,  3;  Luke  v,  is), 
suppose,  1.  either  that  our  Lord  was  standing  under  the 
veranda,  and  the  people  in  front  in  the  court.  The 
bearers  of  the  sick  man  ascended  the  stairs  to  the  roof 


_ . of  the  bouse,  and,  taking  off  a portion  of  the  boarded 

usually  sloping  downwards,  conducts  to  the  outer  j covering  of  the  veranda,  or  removing  the  awning  over 
; the  opening  from  the  passage  to  this,  as  before  j the  impluvium,  to  peaov,  in  the  former  case  let  down 


HOUSE 


372 


HOUSE 


And  one  still  more  simple  is  found  in  regarding  the  ' 
house  as  one  of  the  rude  dwellings  now  to  be  seen  near 
the  Sea  of  Galilee,  a mere  room  “ten  or  twelve  feet 
high,  and  as  many  or  more  square,”  with  no  opening 
except  the  door.  The  roof,  used  as  a sleeping-place,  is 
reached  by  a ladder  from  the  outside,  and  the  bearers 
of  the  paralytic,  unable  to  approach  the  door,  would 
thus  have  ascended  the  roof,  and,  having  uncovered  it 
(iZopvZavTtc),  let  him  down  into  the  room  where  our 
Lord  was  (Malan,  l.  c.).  See  below. 

Besides  the  inandurah  some  houses  in  Cairo  have  an 
apartment  called  mak'ad,  open  in  front  to  the  court, 
with  two  or  more  arches,  and  a railing;  and  a pillar 
to  support,  the  wall  above  (Lane,  i,  38).  It  was  in  a 
chamber  of  this  kind,  probably  one  of  the  largest  size 
to  be  found  in  a palace,  that  our  Lord  was  arraigned 
before  the  high-priest  at  the  time  when  the  denial  of 
him  by  Peter  took  place.  lie  “turned  and  looked”  on 
Peter  as  he  stood  by  the  fire  in  the  court  (Luke  xxii, 
5(i,  Cl ; John  xviii,  24),  while  he  himself  was  in  the 
“hall  of  judgment,”  the  mak'ad.  Such  was  the  “porch 
of  judgment”  built  by  Solomon  (1  Kings  vii,  7),  which 
finds  a parallel  in  the  golden  alcove  of  Mohammed  Uz- 
bek (Ibn  Batuta,  Travels,  p.  7fi,  ed.  Lee).  See  Pr.eto-  I 


nms  femmarum)  is  noticed  in  the  book  of  Esther  (ii, 
See  Woman*. 


Part  of  the  Court  of  a House  in  Cairo,  with  Mak'ad  (Lane). 


muM.  The  circumstance  of  Samson’s  pulling  down  the 
house  by  means  of  the  pillars,  may  be  explained  by  the 
fact  of  the  company  being  assembled  on  tiers  of  balco- 
nies above  each  other,  supported  by  central  pillars  on 
the  basement ; when  these  were  pulled  down,  the  whole 
of  the  upper  floors  would  fall  also  (Judg.  xvi,  26;  see 
Shaw,  p.  211).  See  Pilt.au. 

When  there  is  no  second  floor,  but  more  than  one 
court,  the  women’s  apartments  (Arabic  harem  or  haram , 
secluded  or  prohibited,  with  which  may  be  compared  the 
Hebrew  Armon,  Stanley,  S.  and  P.  App.  § 82), 

are  usually  in  the  second  court;  otherwise  they  form  a 
separate  building  within  the  general  inclosure,  or  are 
above  on  the  first  floor  ( 1 ’lews  in  Syria,  i,  56).  The 
entrance  to  the  harem,  as  observed  above,  is  crossed  by 
no  one  but  the  master  of  the  house  and  the  domestics 
belonging  to  the  female  establishment.  Though  this 
remark  ’would  not  apply  in  the  same  degree  to  Jewish 
habits,  the  privacy  of  the  women’s  apartments  may  pos- 
sibly be  indicated  by  the  “inner  chamber”  (Tin,  rafu- 
tiov,  cubmiluni),  resorted  to  as  a hiding-place  (1  Kings 
xx,  30 ; xxii,  25 ; see  Judg.  xv,  1).  Solomon,  in  his  mar- 
riage with  a foreigner,  introduced  also  foreign  usage  in 
this  respect,  which  was  carried  further  in  subsequent 
times  (1  Kings  vii,  8;  2 Kings  xxiv,  15).  The  harem 
of  the  Persian  monarch  (C1'^:  r*3 ; o yvvaucwv ; do- 


Interior  of  a House  (Harem)  in  Damascus. 

Sometimes  the  diwdn  is  raised  sufficiently  to  allow 
of  cellars  underneath  for  stores  of  all  kinds  (rayiua, 
Matt,  xxiv,  26;  Russell,  i,  32).  This  basement  is  occu- 
pied by  various  offices,  stores  of  corn  and  fuel,  places  for 
the  water-jars  to  stand  in,  places  for  grinding  corn, 
baths,  kitchens,  etc.  In  Turkish  Arabia 
most  of  the  houses  have  underground  cel- 
lars or  vaults,  to  which  the  inhabitants 
retreat  during  the  midday  heat  of  sum- 
mer, and  there  enjoy  a refreshing  cool- 
ness. We  do  not  discover  any  notice  of 
this  usage  in  Scripture.  But  at  Acre 
the  substructions  of  very  ancient  houses 
were  some  years  ago  discovered,  having 
such  cellars,  which  were  very  probably 
subservient  to  this  use.  In  the  rest  of 
the  year,  these  cellars,  or  serdaubs , as 
they  are  called,  are  abandoned  to  the 
bats,  which  swarm  in  them  in  scarcely 
credible  numbers  (Isa.  ii,  20). 

The  kitchens  are  always  in  this  inner 
court,  as  the  cooking  is  performed  by 
women,  and  the  ladies  of  the  family  su- 
perintend or  actually  assist  in  the  pro- 
cess. The  kitchen,  open  in  front,  is  on 
the  same  side  as  the  entrance  from  the 
outer  court;  and  the  top  of  it  forms  a 
terrace,  which  affords  a communication 
between  the  first  floor  of  both  courts  by 
a private  door,  seldom  used  but  by  the 
master  of  the  house  and  attendant  eu- 
nuchs. There  are  usually  no  fireplaces  except  in  the 
kitchen,  the  furniture  of  which  consists  of  a sort  of  raised 
platform  of  brick,  with  receptacles  in  it  for  lire,  answering 
to  the  “boiling-places”  (nVi'3^2  ; /jayupila;  cult  me) 
of  Ezekiel  (xlvi,  23;  see  Lane,  i,  41 ; Gesenius,  Thes.  p. 
249).  In  these  different  compartments  the  various  dish- 
es of  an  Eastern  feast  may  be  at  once  prepared  at  char- 
coal fires.  This  place  being  wholly  open  in  front,  the 
half-tame  doves,  which  have  their  nests  in  the  trees  of 
the  court,  often  visit  it,  in  the  absence  of  the  servants, 
in  search  of  crumbs,  etc.  As  they  sometimes  blacken 
themselves,  this  perhaps  explains  the  obscure  passage 
in  Psa.  Ixviii,  13,  “Though  ye  have  lien  among  the^ote 
[but  Gesenius  renders  “shcepfolds”],  ye  shall  be  as  the 
wings  of  a dove  covered  with  silver,”  etc. 

Besides  the  mandarah , there  is  sometimes  a second 
room,  either  on  the  ground  or  the  upper  floor,  called 
Jed' ah,  fitted  with  dhedns,  and  at  the  corners  of  these 
rooms  portions  taken  off  and  inclosed  form  retiring  rooms 
(Lane,  i,  21 ; Russell,  i,  31, 33).  While  speaking  of  the 
interior  of  the  house,  we  may  observe,  that  on  the  di- 
wdn, the  corner  is  the  place  of  honor,  which  is  never 
quitted  by  the  master  of  the  house  in  receiving  stran- 
gers (Russell,  i,  27 ; Malan,  Tyre  and  Sidon,  p.  38).  When 
there  is  an  upper  stonr,  the  ka'ah  forms  the  most  im- 
portant apartment,  and  thus  probably  answers  to  the 
vTriptpoVf  which  was  often  the  “guest-chamber”  (Luke 


HOUSE 


HOUSE 


373 


Ku'ah  of  a House  in  Cairo.  (Lane.) 


xxii,  12;  Acts  i,  13;  ix,  37 ; xx,  8;  Burckhardt,  Trav- 
els, i,  154).  The  windows  of  the  upper  rooms  often 
project  one  or  two  feet,  and  form  a kiosk  or  latticed 
chamber,  the  ceilings  of  which  are  elaborately  orna- 
mented (Lane,  i,  27  ; Russell,  i,  102;  Bnrckhardt,  Trav. 

1,  190).  Such  may  have  been  the  “ chamber  in  the  wall” 
(ft*  33,  vTrtptiiov,  ccenaculum,  Gcsen.  p.  1030)  made,  or 
rather  set  apart  for  Elisha  by  the  Slninammite  woman 
(2  Kings  iv,  10, 1 1).  So,  also,  the  “summer  parlor”  of 
Eglon  "(Judg.  iii,  20,  23;  but  see  Wilkinson,  i,  11),  the 
“loft”  of  the  widow  of  Zarcphath  (1  Kings  xvii,  19). 
The  “ lattice”  (P!3-'J,  ciktvujtoc;,  cancelli ) through 
which  Ahaziah  fell  perhaps  belonged  to  an  upper  cham- 
ber of  this  kind  (2  Kings  i,  2),  as  also  the  “ third  loft” 
(rpwTiyov)  from  which  Eutychus  fell  (Acts  xx,9;  com- 
pare Jer.  xxii,  13).  See  Uppish  Room.  The  inner  court 
is  entered  by  a passage  and  door  similar  to  those  on  the 
street,  and  usually  situated  at  one  of  the  innermost  cor- 
ners of  the  outer  court.  The  inner  court  is  generally 
much  larger  than  the  former.  It  is  for  the  most  pait 
paved,  excepting  a portion  in  the  middle,  which  is  plant- 
ed with  trees  (usually  two)  and  shrubs,  with  a basin  of 
water  in  the  midst.  That  the  Jews  had  the  like  ar- 
rangement of  trees  in  the  courts  of  their  houses,  and 
that  the  birds  nested  in  them,  appears  from  Psa.  lxxxiv, 

2,  3.  They  had  also  the  basin  of  water  in  the  inner 
court  or  harem , and  among  them  it  was  used  for  bathing, 
as  is  shown  by  David’s  discovering  llathsheba  bathing 
as  he  walked  on  the  roof  of  his  palace.  The  arrange- 
ment of  the  inner  court  is  very  similar  to  that  of  the 
outer,  but  the  whole  is  more  open  and  airy,  'rite  build- 
ings usually  occupy  two  sides  of  the  square,  of  which 
the  one  opposite  the  entrance  contains  the  principal 
apartments.  They  are  upon  what  we  should  call  the 
first  floor,  and  open  into  a wide  gallery  or  veranda,  which 
in  good  houses  is  nine  or  ten  feet  deep,  and  covered  by 
a wooden  penthouse  supported  by  a row  of  wooden  col- 
umns. This  terrace  or  gallery  is  furnished  with  a strong 
wooden  balustrade,  and  is  usually  paved  with  squared 
stones,  or  else  floored  with  boards,  in  the  centre  of 
the  principal  front  is  the  usual  open  drawing-room,  on 
which  the  best  art  of  the  Eastern  decorator  is  expended. 
Much  of  one  of  the  sides  of  the  court  front  is  usually  oc- 
cupied by  the  large  sitting-room,  with  the  latticed  front 
covered  with  colored  glass,  similar  to  that  in  the  outer 
court.  The  other  rooms,  of  smaller  size,  are  the  more 
private  apartments  of  the  mansion. 

No  ancient  houses  had  chimneys.  The  word  so  trans- 
lated in  Hos.  xiii,  3,  means  a hole  through  which  the 
smoke  escaped;  and  this  existed  only  in  the  lower  class 
of  dwellings,  where  raw  wood  was  employed  for  fuel  or 


cooking,  and  where  there  was  an  opening  immediately 
over  the  hearth  to  let  out  the  smoke.  In  the  better  sort 
of  houses  the  rooms  were  wanned  in  winter  by  charcoal 
in  braziers  (Jer.  xxxvi,  22;  Mark  xiv,  54  ; John  xviii, 
18),  as  is  still  the  practice  (Russell,  i,  21 ; Lane,  i,  41  ; 
Chardin,  iv,  120),  or  a lire  of  wood  might  be  kindled  in 
the  open  court  of  the  house  (Luke  xxii,  55).  See  Fun;. 

There  are  usually  no  doors  to  the  sitting  or  drawing- 
rooms of  Eastern  houses : they  are  closed  by  curtains, 
at  least  in  summer,  the  opening  and  shutting  of  doors 
being  odious  to  most  Orientals.  The  same  seems  to 
have  been  the  case  among  the  Hebrews,  as  far  as  we 
may  judge  from  the  curtains  which  served  instead  of 
doors  to  the  tabernacle,  and  which  separated  the  inner 
and  outer  chambers  of  the  Temple.  The  outer  doors 
arc  closed  with  a wooden  lock  (Lane,  i,  42;  Chardin,  iv, 
123;  Russell,  i,  21).  See  Lock;  Clijtaix. 

The  windows  had  no  glass;  they  were  only  latticed, 
and  thus  gave  free  passage  to  the  air  and  admitted  light, 
while  birds  and  bats  were  excluded.  In  winter  the  cold 
air  was  kept  out  by  veils  over  the  windows,  or  by  shut- 
ters with  holes  in  them  sufficient  to  admit  light  (1  Kings 
vii,  17 ; Cant,  ii,  9).  The  apertures  of  the  windows  in 
Egyptian  and  Eastern  houses  generally  are  small,  in  or- 
der to  exclude  heat  (Wilkinson,  .1  nr.  Kg.  ii,  124).  They 
are  closed  with  folding  valves,  secured  with  a bolt  or 
bar.  The  windows  often  project  considerably  beyond 
the  lower  part  of  the  building,  so  as  to  overhang  the 
street.  The  windows  of  the  courts  within  also  project 
(Jowett,  Christian  lies.  p.  G6,  G7).  The  lattice  is  gener- 
ally kept  closed,  but  can  be  opened  at  pleasure,  and  is 
opened  on  great  public  occasions  (Lane,  Mod.  Egypt,  i, 
27).  Those  within  can  look  through  the  lattices,  with- 
out opening  them  or  being  seen  themselves ; and  in  some 
rooms,  especially  the  large  upper  room,  there  are  several 
windows.  From  the  allusions  in  Scripture  we  gather, 
that  while  there  was  usually  but  one  window  in  each 
room,  in  which  invariably  there  was  a lattice  (Judg.  v, 


Latticed  Windows  of  a House  iu  Caiio. 


28,  where  “a  window"  is  in  Heb.  “ the  window;’  Josh, 
ii,  15;  2 Sam.  vi,  16,  in  Heb.  “the  window;”  2 Kings  ix, 
30,  do.;  Acts  xx,  9,  do.),  there  were  sometimes  several 
windows  (2  Kings  xiii,  17).  The  room  here  spoken  of 
was  probably  such  an  upper  room  as  Robinson  describes 


house 


374 


HOUSE 


above  with  many  windows  (Res.  iii,  417).  Daniel’s  room  | 
had  several  windows,  and  bis  lattices  were  opened  when 
his  enemies  found  him  in  prayer  (Dan.  vi,  10).  The 
projecting  nature  of  the  window,  and  the  fact  that  a di- 
van, or  raised  seat,  encircles  the  interior  of  each,  so  that  i 
usually  persons  sitting  in  the  window  are  seated  close 
to  the  aperture,  easily  explains  how  Ahaziah  may  have  I 
fallen  through  the  lattice  of  his  upper  chamber,  and 
Eutychus  from  his  window-scat,  especially  if  the  lat- 
tices were  open  at  the  time  (2  Kings  i,  2 ; Acts  xx,  9).  j 
See  Window. 

There  are  usually  no  special  bedrooms  in  Eastern 
houses,  and  thus  the  room  in  which  Ishbosheth  was 
murdered  was  probably  an  ordinary  room  with  a dhcun, 
on  which  he  was  sleeping  during  the  heat  of  the  day  (2 
Sara,  iv,  5,  G;  Lane,  i,  41).  Sec  Bedchamber. 

The  stairs  to  the  upper  apartments  are  in  Syria  nsu-  ' 
ally  in  a corner  of  the  court  (Robinson,  iii,  C02).  When 
there  is  no  upper  story  the  lower  rooms  are  usually  lof- 
tier. In  Persia  they  are  open  from  top  to  bottom,  and 
only  divided  from  the  court  by  a low  partition  (Wilkin- 
son, Anc.  Eg.  i,  10;  Chardin,  iv,  1 19;  Burckhardt,  Trav- 
els, i,  18, 19 ; Views  in  Syria,  i,  5G).  This  flight  of  stone 
steps  conducts  to  the  gallery,  from  which  a plainer  stair  1 
leads  to  the  house-top.  If  the  house  be  large,  there  are 
two  or  three  sets  of  steps  to  the  different  sides  of  the  | 
quadrangle,  but  seldom  more  than  one  flight  from  the  | 
terrace  to  the  house-top  of  any  one  court.  There  is,  I 
however,  a separate  stair  from  the  outer  court  to  the 
roof,  and  it  is  usually  near  the  entrance.  This  will 
bring  to  mind  the  case  of  the  paralytic,  noticed  above, 
whose  friends,  finding  they  could  not  get  access  to  Jesus 
through  the  people  who  crowded  the  court  of  the  house 
in  which  he  was  preaching,  took  him  up  to  the  roof,  and 
let  him  down  in  his  bed  through  the  tiling  to  the  place 
where  Jesus  stood  (Luke  v,  17-2G).  If  the  house  in 
which  our  Lord  then  was  had  more  than  one  court,  he 
and  the  auditors  were  certainly  in  the  outer  one ; and  it 
is  reasonable  to  conclude  that  he  stood  in  the  veranda 
addressing  the  crowd  below.  The  men  bearing  the 
paralytic,  therefore,  perhaps  went  up  the  steps  near  the 
door;  and  finding  they  could  not  even  then  get  near 
the  person  of  Jesus,  the  gallery  being  also  crowded,  con- 
tinued their  course  to  the  roof  of  the  house,  and,  remov- 
ing the  boards  over  the  covering  of  the  gallery,  at  the 
place  where  Jesus  stood,  lowered  the  sick  man  to  his 
feet.  But  if  they  could  not  get  access  to  the  steps  near 
the  door,  as  is  likely,  from  the  door  being  much  crowd- 
ed, their  alternative  was  to  take  him  to  the  roof  of  the 
next  house,  and  there  hoist  him  over  the  parapet  to  the 
roof  of  the  house  which  they  desired  to  enter.  (See 
Strong’s  Harm,  and,  Expos,  of  the  Gospels,  p.  GL)  See 
Stairs. 

The  roof  of  the  house  is,  of  course,  flat.  It  is  formed 


by  layers  of  branches,  twigs,  matting,  and  earth,  laid 
over  the  rafters,  and  trodden  down;  after  which  it  is 
covered  with  a compost  that  acquires  considerable 
hardness  when  dry.  Such  roofs  would  not,  however, 
endure  the  heavy  and  continuous  rains  of  our  climate; 
and  in  those  parts  of  Asia  where  the  climate  is  more 
than  usually  moist,  a stone  roller  is  usually  kept  on  ev- 
ery roof,  and  after  a shower  a great  part  of  the  popula- 
tion is  engaged  in  drawing  these  rollers  over  the  roofs. 
It  is  now  very  common,  in  countries  where  timber  is 
scarce,  to  have  domed  roofs;  but  in  that  case  the  flat 
roof,  which  is  indispensable  to  Eastern  habits,  is  obtain- 
ed by  filling  up  the  hollow  intervals  between  the  several 
domes,  so  as  to  form  a flat  surface  at  the  top.  These 
flat  roofs  are  often  alluded  to  in  Scripture,  and  the  al- 
lusions show  that  they  were  made  to  serve  the  same 
uses  as  at  present.  In  fine  weather  the  inhabitants  re- 
sorted much  to  them  to  breathe  the  fresh  air,  to  enjoy  a 
fine  prospect,  or  to  witness  any  event  that  occurred  in 
the  neighborhood  (2  Sam.  xi,  2;  Isa.  xxii,  1;  Matt, 
xxiv,  17 ; Mark  xiii,  15).  The  dry  air  of  the  summer 
atmosphere  enabled  them,  without  injury  to  health,  to 
enjoy  the  bracing  coolness  of  the  night-air  by  sleeping 
on  the  house-tops;  and  in  order  to  have  the  benefit  of 
the  air  and  prospect  in  the  daytime,  without  inconven- 
ience from  the  sun,  sheds,  booths,  and  tents  were  some- 
times erected  on  the  house-tops  (2  Sam.  xvi,  22).  See 
House-top. 

The  roofs  of  the  houses  are  well  protected  by  walls 
and  parapets.  Towards  the  street  and  neighboring 
houses  is  a high  wall,  and  towards  the  interior  court- 
yard usually  a parapet  or  wooden  rail.  “Battlements” 
of  this  kind,  for  the  prevention  of  accidents,  are  strictly 
enjoined  in  the  law  (Dent,  xxii,  8) ; and  the  form  of 
the  battlements  of  Egyptian  houses  suggest  some  inter- 
esting analogies,  if  we  consider  how  recently  the  Isra- 
elites had  quitted  Egypt  when  that  law  was  delivered. 
See  Battlement. 


rwvww 


T7~ 


It 


J V 

\AAAA/ 


Flat-roofed  Houses  at  Gaza. 


Ancient  Battlements : 1,  2.  Assyrian ; S.  Egyptian. 

In  the  East,  where  the  climate  allows  the  people  to 
spend  so  much  of  their  time  out  of  doors,  the  articles 
of  furniture  and  the  domestic  utensils  have  always  been 
few  and  simple.  See  Bed;  Lamp;  Tottery;  Seat; 
Table.  The  rooms,  however,  although  comparatively 
vacant  of  movables,  are  far  from  having  a naked  or  un- 
furnished appearance.  This  is  owing  to  the  high  degree 
of  ornament  given  to  the  walls  and  ceilings.  The  walls 
are  broken  up  into  various  recesses,  and 
the  ceiling  into  compartments.  The  ceil- 
ing, if  of  wood  and  flat,  is  of  curious  and 
complicated  joinery  ; or,  if  vaulted,  is 
wrought  into  numerous  coves,  and  en- 
riched with  fretwork  in  stucco;  and  the 
walls  are  adorned  with  arabesques,  mo- 
saics, mirrors,  painting,  and  gold,  which, 
as  set  off  1)}'  the  marble-like  whiteness 
of  the  stucco,  has  a truly  brilliant  and 
rich  effect.  There  is  much  in  this  to 
remind  one  cfsuch  descriptions  of  splen- 
did interiors  as  that  in  Isa.  liv,  11, 12. — 
.Smith;  Kitto;  Fairbairn.  See  Ceiling. 

IV.  Me'ctphori  al'y. — The  word  house 
has  some  figurative  applications  in  Scrip- 
ture. Heaven  is  considered  as  the  house 
of  God  (John  xiv,  2):  “In  my  Father’s 
house  are  many  mansions.”  Here  is  an 
evident  allusion  to  the  Temple  (q.  v.), 
with  its  many  rooms,  which  is  emphat- 
ically styled  in  the  Old  Testament  “ the 
House  of  the  Lord”  The  grave  is  the 


HOUSE  OF  BISHOPS 


375 


HOUSE-TOP 


tlic  term  abuddah ,'  lit.  service  (“servants?  (Ion. 

xxvi,  24),  between  the  domestics  and  the  bay'ith , 

or  proper  family  of  the  master  of  the  house ; and  some 
have  thought  a like  difference  to  be  denoted  between 
the  Greek  term  oUia  (lit.  residence ) and  oIkoq  of  the  N. 
T.,  which  are  both  indiscriminately  rendered  “house” 
and  “ household"  in  the  Engl.  Version.  This  latter  view 
is  confirmed  by  the  improbability  that  any  of  the  im- 
mediate imperial  family  (Nero's)  should  have  been  in- 
cluded in  the  converts  to  Christianity  expressed  in  the 
phrase  they  of  Caesar's  household  (ot  Ik  rijtj  Kaiaapog 
oneiric,  Phil,  iv,  22).  See  C.esar. 

Householder  ( oiKotianoTiic , master  of  the  house , 
as  rendered  Matt,  x,  25;  Luke  xiii,  25;  xiv,  21),  the 
male  head  of  a family  (Matt,  xiii,  27,  52;  xx,  1 ; xxi, 
23).  There  are  monographs  on  the  parable  Matt,  xx, 
by  Feuerlein,  I)e  scriba  profe rente  e tliesauro  nova  et  Ve- 
tera (Alt.  1730)  ; Bagewitz,  I)e  scriba  docto  (Rost.  1720). 
See  Goodman  of  the  house. 

Housel,  “the  old  Saxon  name  for  the  Eucharist, 
supposed  by  some  to  be  from  the  Gothic  l) tunsu ,’  a vic- 
tim.”— Eadie,  Cedes.  Dictionary,  p.  315. 

House-top  (55,  yay,  S&fia),  the  flat  roof  of  an  Ori- 
ental house,  for  such  is  usually  their  form,  though  there 
are  sometimes  domes  over  some  of  the  rooms.  The  flat 
portions  are  plastered  with  a composition  of  mortar,  tar, 
ashes,  and  sand,  which  in  time  becomes  very  hard,  but 
when  not  laid  on  at  the  proper  season  is  apt  to  crack  in 
winter,  and  the  rain  is  thus  admitted.  In  order  to  pre- 
vent this,  every  roof  is  provided  with  a roller,  which  is 
set  at  work  after  rain.  In  many  cases  the  terrace  roof 
is  little  better  than  earth  rolled  hard  On  ill-compacted 
roofs  grass  is  often  found  springing  into  a short-lived 
existence  (Prov.  xix,  13;  xxvii,  15;  Psa.  cxxix,  G,  7; 
Isa.  xxxvii,  27 ; Shaw,  p.  210;  Lane,  i,  27,  Robinson,  iii, 
31),  44,  GO).  See  Grass. 


Modern  Egyptian  House-tops. 


house  appointed  for  all  the  living  (Job  xxx,  23;  Isa. 
xiv,  18).  House  is  taken  for  the  body  (2  Cor.  v,  1) : 
“If  our  earthly  house  of  this  tabernacle  were  dis- 
solved ;”  if  our  bodies  were  taken  to  pieces  by  death. 
The  comparison  of  the  body  to  a house  is  used  by 
AT r.  llarmer  to  explain  the  similes,  Eccles.  xii,  and  is 
illustrated  by  a passage  in  Plautus  (Most ell.  i,  2).  The 
Church  of  God  is  his  house  (1  Tim.  iii,  15) : “How 
thou  oiightest  to  behave  thyself  in  the  house  of  God, 
that  is,  the  Church  of  the  living  God.”  In  the  same 
sense,  Moses  was  faithful  in  all  the  house  of  God  as  a 
servant,  but  Christ  as  a son  over  his  own  house;  whose 
house  are  we  (Christians).  But  this  sense  may  include 
that  of  household,  persons  composing  the  attendants  or 
retainers  to  a prince,  etc.  This  intimate  reference  of 
house  or  dwelling  to  the  adherents,  intimates,  or  parti- 
sans of  the  householder,  is  probably  the  foundation  of 
the  simile  used  by  the  apostle  Peter  (1  Pet.  ii,  5)  : “ Ye 
(Christians),  as  living  stones,  are  built  up  into  a spiritual 
house.”  Gen.xliii,  1G : “Joseph  said  to  the  ruler  of  his 
house;”  i.  e.  to  the  manager  of  his  domestic  concerns. 
Isa.  xxxvi,  3 : “ Eliakim,  who  was  over  the  house,  or 
household;”  i.  e.-his  steward.  Gen.  xxx,  30:  “When 
shall  I provide  for  mine  own  house  also  ?”i.e.  get  wealth 
to  provide  for  my  family  (see  1 Tit.  v,  8).  Gen.  vii,  1 : 
“ Enter  thou  and  all  thy  house  (family)  into  the  ark.” 
Exod.  i,  21 : “And  it  came  to  pass,  because  the  mid- 
wives feared  God,  that  he  made  them  houses i.  e.  he 
prospered  their  families.  So  also  in  1 Sam.  ii,  35 ; 2 
Sam.  vii,  27 ; 1 Kings  xi,  38.  Thus  the  Lord  plagued 
Pharaoh  and  his  house  (Gen.  xii,  17).  “What  is  my 
house,  that  thou  hast  brought  me  hitherto?”  (2  Sam.  vii, 
18).  So  Joseph  (Luke  i.  27 ; ii,  4)  was  of  the  house  of 
David,  but  more  especially  he  was  of  his  royal  lineage, 
or  family;  and,  as  we  conceive,  in  the  direct  line  or  eld- 
est branch  of  the  family,  so  that  he  was  next  of  kin  to 
the  throne,  if  the  government  had  still  continued  in 
possession  of  the  descendants  of  David  (see  also  1 Tim. 
v,  8).  2 Sam.  vii,  11:  “Also  the  Lord 

telleth  thee  that  he  will  make  thee  a 
house;”  i.  e.  he  will  give  thee  offspring, 
who  may  receive  and  may  preserve  the 
royal  dignity.  Psa.  xlix,  12 : “ Their  in- 
ward thought  is  that  their  houses  shall 
continue  forever;”  i.  e.  that  their  poster- 
ity shall  always  flourish. — Calmct ; Wc- 
myss.  See  Household. 

House  of  Bishops.  See  Convo- 
cation. 

House  of  Clerical  and  Lay- 
Deputies.  See  Convocation. 

House  of  God,  a name  frequently 
given  to  the  edifice  in  which  Christians 
assemble  for  the  worship  of  God,  not  be- 
cause God  dwells  there  by  any  visible  or 
special  presence,  as  of  old  he  “dwelt  be- 
tween the  cherubims,”  but  because  it  is 
dedicated  to  God , and  set  apart  for  his  ser- 
vice. It  is  thus  synonymous  with  the 
word  “church”  in  that  modern  use  of  it  by  which  it  sig- 
nifies a building  (Eden).  See  Bethel;  House;  Tem- 
ple. 

House  of  Prayer,  places  where  persons  assemble 
to  pray,  and  to  receive  religious  instruction,  but  where 
the  sacraments  are  not  administered.  It  is  the  general 
name  of  the  Protestant  churches  in  Hungary,  and  was 
such  in  Silesia  under  the  Austrian  rule,  to  distinguish 
them  from  the  Roman  Catholic  places  of  worship.  It  is 
also  used  in  Germany  to  designate  the  churches  of  such 
sects  as  are  not  officially  recognised,  as  the  Moravians, 
etc.  The  synagogues  are  also  called  houses  of  prayer 
(Isa.  lvi,  7). — Pierer,  Unit:.  Lex.  s.  v.  See  Pkosf.uchje. 

Household  (usually  same  in  the  orig.  as  “ house”), 
the  members  of  a family  residing  in  the  same  abode,  in- 
cluding servants  and  dependants,  although  in  Job  i,  3 a 
distinction  (not  observed  in  the  A.V.)  is  intimated  by 


In  no  point  do  Oriental  domestic  habits  differ  more 
from  European  than  in  the  use  of  the  roof  (Ilackett,  II- 
lustra.  of  Scripture,  p.  71  sq.).  Its  Hat  surface  is  made 
useful  for  various  household  purposes  (Josh,  ii,  G),  as 
drying  corn,  hanging  up  linen,  and  preparing  ligs  and 
raisins  (Shaw,  p.  211;  Burckhardt,  True,  i,  101:  Bart- 
' lett,  Footsteps  of  our  Lord,  p.  190).  The  roofs  arc  used 
almost  universally  as  places  of  recreation  in  the  even- 
ing, and  often  as  sleeping-places  at  night  (2  Sam.  xi,  2; 

I xvi,  22;  Dan.  iv,  29;  1 Sam.  ix,  25,  2G;  Job  xxvii,  18; 
i Prov.  xxi,  9;  Shaw.  p.  211 ; Russell,  i,  35;  Chardin,  iv, 
j 1 1G;  Layard,  Nineveh,  i,  177).  They  were  also  used  as 
I places  for  devotion,  and  even  idolatrous  worship  (Jer. 
xxxii,  29;  xix,  13;  2 Kings  xxiii,  12;  Zepli  i,  5;  Acts 
j x,  9).  At  the  time  of  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  booths 
were  erected  by  the  Jews  on  t lie  tops  of  their  houses,  as 
in  the  present  day  huts  of  boughs  are  sometimes  erected 


HOUSE-TOP 


376 


HOVEY 


on  the  house-tops  as  sleeping-places,  or  places  of  retire- 
ment from  the  heat  in  summer  time  (Neh.  viii,  16; 
Burekhardt,  Syria,  p.  280).  As  among  the  Jews  the  se- 
clusion of  women  was  not  carried  to  the  extent  of  Mo- 
hammedan usage,  it  is  probable  that  the  house-top  was 
made,  as  it  is  among  Christian  inhabitants,  more  a place 
of  public  meeting  both  for  men  and  women,  than  is  the 
case  among  Mohammedans,  who  carefully  seclude  their 
roofs  from  inspection  by  partitions  (Burekhardt,  Trar. 
i.  191 ; compare  Wilkinson,  i,  23).  The  Christians  at 
Aleppo,  in  Bussell's  time,  lived  contiguous,  and  made 
their  house-tops  a means  of  mutual  communication  to 
avoid  passing  through  the  streets  in  time  of  plague  (Bus- 
sell, i,  35).  In  the  same  manner,  the  house-top  might 
be  made  a means  of  escape  by  the  stairs  by  which  it 
was  reached  without  entering  any  of  the  apartments  of 
the  house  (Matt,  xxiv,  17 ; x,  27 ; Luke  xii,  3).  Both 
Jews  and  heathens  were  in  the  habit  of  wailing  publicly 
on  the  house-tops  (Isa.  xv,  3;  xxii,  1;  Jer.  xlviii,38). 
The  expression  used  by  Solomon,  “dwelling  upon  the 
house-top”  (Prov.  xxi,  9),  is  illustrated  by  the  frequent 
custom  of  building  chambers  and  rooms  along  the  side 
and  at  the  corners  of  the  open  space  or  terrace  which 
often  constitutes  a kind  of  upper  story  (Ilackett,  ut  sujt. 
p.  74).  Or  it  may  refer  to  the  fact  that  booths  are  some- 
times constructed  of  branches  and  leaves  upon  the  roof. 


Ancient  Egyptian  flat  Hoof  supported  by  a Balustrade. 


which,  although  of  cramped  dimensions,  furnish  a cool 
and  quiet  retreat,  not  unsuitable  as  a relief  from  a clam- 
orous wife  (Pococke,  Travels,  ii,  69).  It  is  obvious  that 
such  a place  would  be  convenient  for  observation  (Isa. 
xxii,  1 ),  and  for  the  proclamation  of  news  (Luke  xii,  3 ; 
com]).  Thomson,  Lund  and  Book,  i,  51).  See  Boof. 

Protection  of  the  roof  by  parapets  was  enjoined  by 


the  law  (Dent,  xxii,  8).  The  parapets  thus  constructed, 
of  which  the  types  may  be  seen  in  ancient  Egyptian 
houses,  were  sometimes  of  open  work,  and  it  is  to  a fall 
through  or  over  one  of  these  that  the  injury  by  which 
Ahaziah  suffered  is  sometimes  ascribed  (Shaw,  p.  211). 
To  pass  over  roofs  for  plundering  purposes,  as  well  as  for 
safety,  would  be  no  difficult  matter  (Joel,  ii,  9).  In  an- 
cient Egyptian,  and  also  in  Assyrian  houses,  a sort  of 
raised  story  was  sometimes  built  above  the  roof,  and  in 
the  former  an  open  chamber,  roofed  or  covered  with 
awning,  was  sometimes  erected  on  the  house-top  (Wil- 
kinson, i,  9 ; Layard,  21  on.  of  Ain.  ii,  pi.  49,  50). — Smith. 
See  House. 

Houssay,  Brother  Jean  i>r,  a distinguished  mem- 
ber of  an  order  of  hermits  who  lived  on  Mount  Valerian, 
near  Paris,  was  born  at  Chaillot  in  1539.  These  pious 
men  formed  a community  of  their  own,  distinct  from  the 
outer  world,  and  took  the  vows  of  poverty,  chastity,  and 
obedience.  Houssay  died  Aug.  3,  1609. — Iloefer,  Aom\ 
Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  27 L See  Valerian  Monks.  (J. 
H.W.) 

Housta,  Baudoin  de,  an  Augustine  monk,  was  bom 
at  Toubise  in  the  early  part  of  the  18th  century,  and 
distinguished  himself  greatly  by  his  piety  and  erudition. 
He  is  especially  celebrated  as  the  would-be  critic  of 
Fleury’s  work  on  ecclesiastical  history,  which  he.  at- 
tacked in  a work  entitled  2 fait  raise  foi  de  M.  Fleur y, 
prouvee  par  plmieurs  passages  des  Saints  Feres,  des 
coneiles  et  (V auteurs  ecclesiastiques  qu'il  a omis,  tronques 
on  infdelement  traduits  dans  son  histoire  (Malines,  1733, 
8vo).  Of  course  the  monk,  from  his  narrow  and  biased 
stand-point,  was  unable  to  comprehend  the  greatness  of 
Fleury  and  the  liberality  of  his  views,  and  he  endeav- 
ored to  ridicule  Fleury,  and  stamp  him  as  an  infidel, 
Housta  died  at  Enguien  in  1760. — Chaudon  and  Delan- 
dine,  A "our.  Diet.  JJist.  vi,  315  sq. ; Fuller,  Diet.  Hist,  ix, 
45.  (J.  H.W.) 

Houteville,  Alexandre  Claude  Francois,  a 
French  theologian,  was  born  at  Paris  in  1688,  became  a 
member  of  the  Congregation  of  the  Oratory  in  1704,  and 
remained  such  for  some  eighteen  years.  He  was  then 
appointed  secretary  to'  cardinal  Dubois.  In  1722  he 
published  La  1 'erite  de  la  religion  Chretienne  prouvee  par 
les  faits  (Paris,  4to;  new  ed.  Paris,  1749,  4 vols.  12mo), 
“which  had  a wonderful  though  scarcely  deserved  pop- 
ularity at  one  time”  (Hook,  Keeles.  Biog.  vi,  198),  and 
provoked  considerable  controversy.  In  1723  he  was 
made  abbe  of  St.  Vincent  du  Bourg-snr-Mer,  in  the  dio- 
cese of  Bordeaux.  In  1728  he  published  Essui  philoso- 
phique  sur  la  Providence.  In  1740  he  published  a sec- 
ond edition  of  his  Y erite  de  la  religion  Chretienne  (Paris, 
3 vols.  4to).  This  edition,  greatly  enlarged,  contains  a 
historical  and  critical  discourse  upon  the  method  of  the 
jtrincipal  authors  who  wrote  for  and  against  Christian- 
ity from  its  beginning  (which  was  translated  and  pub- 
lished separately,  with  a Dissertation  on  the  Life  of 
A pollonius  Tyanceus,  and  some  Observations  on  the  Pla- 
tonists  of  the  latter  School,  Lond.  1739,  8vo).  “It  con- 
tains little  information  concerning  the  authors  or  the 
events,  but  a clearly  and  correctly  written  analysis  of 
their  works  and  thoughts”  (Farrar,  Crit.  History  of  Free 
Thought,  p.  xv).  In  1742  he  was  honored  with  the  ap- 
pointment of  “perpetual  secretary”  to  the  French  Acad- 
emy. He  died  Nov.  8,  1742.  — Biographic  Unit',  xx, 
620  sq. ; Chaudon  and  Delandine,  A our.  Diet.  Hist,  vi, 
316 ; Diet.  Hist,  ix,  45  sq.  (J.  H.W.) 

Hovel  or  Housing  is  a term  applied  to  a canopy 
or  niche. — Wallcot,  Sac.  Archceol.  p.  318. 

Hovey,  Jonathan  Parsons,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian 
minister,  was  born  in  Waybridge,  Vt.,  Oct.  10, 1810.  He 
received  a collegiate  education  at  Jacksonville,  111.,  and 
South  Hanover,  Ind.  He  studied  theology  at  Auburn 
Seminary,  and  was  ordained  for  the  ministry  March, 
1837.  He  was  settled  four  times;  first  at  Gaines,  N.Y.; 
then  at  Burdette,  N.  Y. ; then  at  Bichmond,  Va. ; and 
from  September,  1850,  for  thirteen  years,  in  New  York 


Ancient  Assyriau  flat-roofed  Houses,  with  Parapets  and 
pillared  covering. 


HOW 


377 


HOWARD 


City.  “ His  church  occupied  a difficult  field.  It  was 
surrounded  by  German  Catholics,  and  by  those  who 
valued  little,  though  they  greatly  needed,  the  institu- 
tions of  the  Gospel.  Here  he  labored  with  signal  fidel- 
ity and  usefulness.  Several  revivals  were  enjoyed  dur- 
ing his  ministry,  and  many  additions  were  made  to  the 
Church."  During  our  late  civil  war  Dr.  Ilovey  served 
as  chaplain  of  the  71st  Regiment  New  York  State  Vol- 
unteers, and  continued  with  them  during  their  entire 
period  of  service,  at  the  expiration  of  which  he  returned 
again  to  his  charge  in  New  \ork  City.  lie  died  there 
Dec.  l(i,  1863. — Wilson’s  Fresh.  Ilist.  Aim.  18G4,  p.  305 
sq.  Rev.  Dr.  Field,  in  the  Christum  Intelligencer , Dec. 
24,  18G3. 

How,  Samuei.  B.,  D.D.,  was  born  in  1788,  graduated 
at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  in  1710,  and  at  Prince- 
ton Theological  Seminary  in  1813.  He  was  settled  suc- 
cessively in  Presbyterian  churches  at  Salisbury,  Pa., 
1813-15;  Trenton,  N.  J.,  1815-21 ; and  New  Drnnswick, 
N.  J.,  1821-23.  From  1823  to  1827  he  was  pastor  of 
the  Independent  Church  at  Savannah,  Ga.,  then  for  a 
year  in  New-York,  whence  he  was  called  to  the  presi- 
dency of  Dickinson  College,  Pa.,  1830-31.  In  1832  he 
accepted  the  charge  of  the  First  Reformed  Dutch  Church 
in  New  Brunswick,  N.  J.,  but  resigned  on  account  of  ill 
health  in  1861.  In  all  these  positions  his  fine  classical 
scholarship  and  solid  and  extensive  theological  learning 
wore  studiously  maintained  and  conspicuously  display- 
ed. Devout,  conscientious,  a Christian  gentleman  in 
the  best  sense  of  the  term,  a most  faithful  preacher  and 
pastor,  fearless  and  independent,  zealous  and  successful, 
as  a minister  he  was  remarkable  for  scriptural  instruc- 
tion and  pious  fervor.  11  is  ideal  of  the  ministry  was 
lofty,  and  his  life  was  the  best  commentary  upon  it.  In 
1855  he  published  an  elaborate  pamphlet  entitled  Slave- 
holding  not  sinful , which  grew  out  of  the  request  of  the 
North  Carolina  Classis  of  the  German  Reformed  Clmreh 
to  be  united  with  the  Reformed  Dutch  Church.  The 
important  and  excited  discussion  which  followed  in  the 
General  Synod  of  the  latter  body  ended  in  a decided  re- 
fusal to  comply  with  the  application.  Dr.  How’s  pam- 
phlet was  answered  in  the  same  form  by  the  Rev.  Her- 
vey  D.  Ganse  and  others,  and  it  was  long  before  the 
interest  produced  by  it  died  away.  Dr.  How  published 
also  several  occasional  sermons  of  eminent  ability.  lie 
was  a frequent  contributor  to  religious  periodicals,  espe- 
cially in  relation  to  the  pending  theological  controver- 
sies of  his  time.  The  last  seven  years  of  his  life  were 
spent  in  retirement  from  public  service.  He  preached 
when  his  health  would  permit,  lie  dwelt  among  his 
own  people,  a model  of  Christian  virtues  and  of  i./...is- 
terial  excellence.  He  died  in  1868.— Corwin's  Manual 
Ref.  Church , p.  118;  Christian  Intelligencer;  Rev.  R.  11. 
Steele,  D.D.,  Ilist.  of  Ref.  D.  Ch.  Xtw  Brunswick  (1869). 
(W.  J.  R.  T.) 

Howard,  Bezaleel,  D.D.,  a Unitarian  Congre- 
gational minister,  was  born  at  Bridgewater,  Mass.,  Nov. 
22,  1753.  He  entered  Harvard  College  in  1777,  and, 
after  graduation  in  1781,  engaged  in  teaching,  pursuing 
at  the  same  time  a course  of  theological  study.  In  1783 
he  was  appointed  tutor  at  Harvard.  In  November,  1784, 
he  was  called  as  minister  to  the  First  Church  and  Soci- 
ety in  Springfield,  Mass.,  and  was  ordained  April  27, 
1785.  He  continued  in  this  position  until  September, 
1803,  when  impaired  health  obliged  him  to  discontinue 
his  work;  but  his  resignation  was  not  accepted  by  the 
Church  until  Jan.  25,  1809,  when  his  successor  was  or- 
dained. In  1819  he  associated  himself  with  a new  Uni- 
tarian Church  which  had  been  formed  from  members  of 
his  old  congregation,  and  he  continued  with  them  till 
his  death,  Jan.  20, 1837.  In  1824  Harvard  College  con- 
ferred the  degree  of  D.D.  upon  him.  The  Rev.  Daniel 
Waldo,  in  a sketch  of  Dr.  Howard  (in  Sprague’s  Annals 
of  the  .1  m.  Pulpit,  \\ ii,  181  sq.),  says  that  the  theological 
views  of  Dr.  Howard  had  been  Arminian  until  his  latest 
years,  when  he  came  to  believe  “ the  sole  supremacy  of 


the  Father.  lie,  however,  held  to  the  doctrine  of  the 
atonement,  in  the  sense  of  propitiation  or  expiation, 
with  the  utmost  tenacity;  and  he  regarded  the  rejection 
of  it  as  a rejection  of  Christianity.  Ilis  views  of  the 
character  of  the  Saviour  were  not,  perhaps,  very  accu- 
rately defined;  he  seemed  to  regartl  him  as  a sort  of 
eternal  emanation  from  Deity;  not  a creature  in  the 
strict  sense,  on  the  one  hand,  nor  yet  the  supreme  God 
on  the  other.”  lie  published  a sermon  delivered  at  the 
ordination  of  the  Rev.  Antipas  Steward  (1793).  (J.  11. 
W.) 

Howard,  J ohn,  one  of  the  most  eminent  of  modem 
Christian  philanthropists,  was  born  at  Hackney  in  1726. 
His  father  apprenticed  him  to  a wholesale  grocer,  but 
died  when  his  son  was  about  nineteen  years  of  age, 
leaving  him  in  possession  of  a handsome  fortiuie,  and 
young  Howard,  who  was  in  weak  health,  determined  to 
make  a tour  in  France  anil  Italy.  On  his  return  he 
took  lodgings  in  Stoke  Newington,  where  his  landlady 
— a widow  named  Loiilore — having  nursed  hint  careful- 
ly through  a severe  illness,  he,  out  of  gratitude,  married 
her,  though  she  was  twenty-seven  years  his  senior.  She, 
however,  died  about  three  years  after  the  marriage,  and 
he  now  conceived  a desire  to  visit  Lisbon,  with  a view 
to  alleviate  the  miseries  caused  by  the  great  earthquake 
in  175G.  On  his  voyage  he  was  captured  by  a French 
privateer,  carried  a prisoner  to  Brest,  and  subsequently 
removed  into  the  Ulterior,  but  was  finally  permitted  to 
return  to  England  on  the  promise  of  inducing  the  gov- 
ernment to  make  a suitable  exchange  for  him.  This 
was  effected,  and  Howard  retired  to  a small  estate  lie 
possessed  at  Cardington,  near  Bedford,  and  there,  in 
April,  1758,  he  married  Miss  Henrietta  Leeds.  It  is 
mentioned  as  a characteristic  trait  that  he  stipulated 
before  marriage  “ that,  in  all  matters  in  which  there 
should  be  a difference  of  opinion  between  them,  his  voice 
should  rule.”  For  seven  years  he  was  chiefly  engaged 
in  the  task  of  raising  the  physical  and  moral  condition 
of  the  peasantry  of  Cardington  and  its  neighborhood  by 
erecting  on  his  own  estate  better  cottages,  establishing 
schools,  and  visiting  and  relieving  the  sick  and  the  des- 
titute; in  his  benevolent  exertions  he  was  assisted  by 
his  wife.  She  died  March,  1765,  and  Howard  from  that 
time  lost  his  interest  in  his  home  and  its  occupations, 
lie  lived  some  years  at  Cardington  in  seclusion,  then 
made  another  Continental  tour,  and  in  1773  was  nomi- 
nated sheriff  of  Bedford.  The  sufferings  which  he  had 
endured  and  witnessed  during  his  own  brief  confine- 
ment as  a prisoner  of  war  struck  deep  into  his  mind, 
and,  shocked  by  the  misery  and  abuses  which  prevailed 
in  the  prisons  under  his  charge,  he  attempted  to  induce 
the  magistrates  to  remedy  the  more  obvious  of  them. 
The  reply  was  a demand  for  a precedent,  and  Howard 
at  once  set  out  on  a tour  of  inspection.  But  he  soon 
found  that  the  evil  was  general,  and  he  set  himself  dili- 
gently to  work  to  inquire  into  the  extent  and  precise 
nature  of  the  mischief,  and,  if  possible,  to  discover  the 
true  remedy  for  the  evil.  He  visited,  in  two  journeys, 
most  of  the  town  and  county  jails  of  England,  and  ac- 
cumulated a large  mass  of  information,  which,  in  March, 
1774,  he  laid  before  the  House  of  Commons.  This  was 
the  commencement  of  prison  reform  in  England.  Once 
actively  engaged,  he  became  more  anil  more  devoted  to 
this  benevolent  pursuit.  He  travelled  repeatedly  over 
the  United  Kingdom,  and  at  different  periods  to  almost 
every  part  of  Europe,  visiting  the  most  offensive  places, 
relieving  personally  the  wants  of  the  most  wretched 
objects,  and  noting  all  that  seemed  to  him  important 
either  for  warning  or  example.  The  first  fruit  of  these 
labors  was  The  /State  of  the  Prisons  in  England jmd 
1 Vales,  with  an  Account  of  some  Foreign  Prisons  (G  t <). 
“As  soon  as  it  appeared,  the  world  was  astonished  at 
the  mass  of  valuable  materials  accumulated  by  a private 
unaided  individual,  through  a course  of  prodigious  la- 
bor, and  at  the  constant  hazard  of  life,  in  consequence 
of  the  infectious  diseases  prevalent  in  the  scenes  of  his 
inquiries-  The  cool  good  sense  and  moderation  of  his 


HOWARD 


378 


HOWARD 


narrative,  contrasted  with  that  enthusiastic  aiclor  which 
must  have  impelled  him  to  his  undertaking,  were  not 
less  admired,  and  he  was  immediately  regarded  as  one 
of  the  extraordinary  characters  of  the  age,  and  as  the 
leader  in  all  plans  for  ameliorating  the  condition  of  that 
wretched  part  of  the  community  for  whom  he  interested 
himself”  (Aikin).  In  1778  he  undertook  another  tour, 
revisited  the  celebrated  hasp-houses  of  Holland,  and 
continued  his  route  through  Belgium  and  Germany  into 
Italy,  whence  he  returned  through  Switzerland  and 
France  in  1779.  In  the  same  year  he  made  another 
survey  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  In  these  tours  he 
extended  his  views  to  the  investigation  of  hospitals. 
The  results  were  published  in  1780,  in  an  Appendix  to 
“ The  Mate  of  the  Prisons  in  England  and  Wales,"  etc. 
Having  travelled  over  nearly  all  the  south  of  Europe, 
in  1781  he  visited  Denmark,  Sweden,  Russia,  and  Po- 
land, and  in  1783  he  went  through  Spain  and  Portu- 
gal, continuing  at  intervals  his  home  inquiries,  and  pub- 
lished in  1784  a second  appendix,  together  with  a new 
edition  of  the  original  work,  in  which  the  additional 
matter  was  comprised.  The  importance,  both  in  pris- 
ons and  hospitals,  of  preventing  the  occurrence  or  spread 
of  infectious  diseases,  produced  in  Mr.  Howard  a desire 
to  witness  the  working  and  success  of  the  Lazaretto  sys- 
tem in  the  south  of  Europe,  more  especially  as  a safe- 
guard against  the  plague.  Danger  or  disgust  never 
turned  him  from  his  path,  but  on  this  occasion  he  went 
without  even  a servant,  not  thinking  it  right,  for  con- 
venience sake,  to  expose  another  person  to  such  a risk. 
Quitting  England  in  1785,  he  travelled  through  the 
south  of  France  and  Italy  to  Malta,  Zante,  and  Constan- 
tinople, whence  he  returned  to  Smyrna,  while  the  plague 
was  raging,  for  the  purpose  of  sailing  from  an  infected 
port  to  Venice,  where  he  might  undergo  the  utmost  rig- 
or of  the  quarantine  system.  He  returned  to  England 
in  1787,  resumed  his  home  tours,  and  in  1789  published  I 
the  result  of  his  late  inquiries  in  another  important  vol- 
ume, entitled  .1  u Account  of  the  principal  Lazarettos  in 
Europe,  etc.,  with  additional  Remarks  on  the  present  State  < 
of  the  P?isons  in  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  The  same 
summer  he  renewed  his  course  of  foreign  travels,  mean- 
ing to  go  into  T urkey  and  the  East  through  Russia.  1 Ic 
had,  however,  proceeded  no  farther  than  the  Crimea 
when  a rapid  illness,  which  he  himself  believed  to  be  an 
infectious  fever,  caught  in  prescribing  for  a lady,  put  an 
end  to  his  life  on  the  20tli  of  January,  1790.  lie  re- 
quested that  no  other  inscription  should  be  put  upon  . 
his  grave  than  simply  this,  “Christ  is  my  hope.”  He  j 
was  buried  at  Dauphinv,  near  Cherson,  and  the  utmost 
respect  was  paid  to  his  memory  by  the  Russian  govern- 
ment. The  intelligence  of  his  death  caused  a profound 
feeling  of  regret  in  his  native  country,  and  men  of  all 
classes  and  parties  vied  in  paying  their  tribute  of  rever- 
ence to  his  memory.  A marble  statue  by  Bacon  of  “ the 
philanthropist”  was  erected  in  St.  Paid’s  Cathedral  by  a 
public  subscription. 

Mr.  Howard’s  piety  was  deep  and  fervent,  and  his 
moral  character  most  pure  and  simple.  His  literary'  ac- 
quirements were  small,  neither  were  his  talents  brilliant ; 
but  he  was  fearless,  single-minded,  untiring,  and  did 
great  things  by  devoting  his  whole  energies  to  one  good 
object.  The  influence  of  disinterestedness  and  integrity 
is  remarkably  displayed  in  the  ready  access  granted  to 
him  even  by  the  most  absolute  and  most  suspicious  gov- 
ernments, in  the  respect  invariably  paid  to  his  person, 
and  the  weight  attached  to  his  opinion  and  authority. 
He  was  strictly  economical  in  his  personal  expenses,  ab- 
stemious in  his  habits,  and  capable  of  going  through 
great  fatigue ; both  his  fortune  and  his  constitution  were 
freely  spent  in  the  cause  to  which  his  life  was  devoted. 
The  only  blemish  which  has  ever  been  suggested  as 
resting  upon  his  memory  is  in  connection  with  his  con- 
duct to  his  son.  Mr.  Howard  was  a strict,  and  has  not 
escaped  the  charge  of  being  a severe,  parent.  The  son, 
unhappily,  in  youth  fell- into  dissolute  habits,  which  be- 
ing carefully  concealed  from  the  father,  and  consequent- 


ly unchecked,  brought  on  a disease  which  terminated  in 
insanity.  He  survived  his  father  nine  years,  dying  on 
the  24th  of  April,  1799;  but  he  remained  till  his  death  a 
hopeless  lunatic.  The  question  of  Howard’s  alleged 
harshness  to  his  son  has  been  thoroughly  investigated 
and  effectually  disproved.  (See  Dixon’s  Life  of  How- 
ard.') That  his  devotion  to  the  great  philanthropic  ob- 
ject to  which  he  gave  up  his  life  may  not  have  inter- 
fered with  his  paternal  duties,  it  is,  of  course,  impossible 
to  afflrm;  but  that  John  Howard  was  an  affectionate 
and  kind-hearted  father,  as  well  as  a single-minded  ben- 
efactor to  his  species,  there  can  now  be  no  reasonable 
doubt.  See  English  Cyclopaedia ; Aiken,  Character  and 
Services  of  John  Howard  (London,  1792,  8vo)  ; Brown, 
Memoirs  of  John  Howard  (Loiul.  1818,4to) ; Dixon,  John 
Howard  and  the  Prison  World  of  Europe  (London,  1850, 
12mo;  reprinted,  with  an  introduction,  by  the  Rev.  R. 
W.  Dickinson,  D.D.,  N.  Y.  1854,  18mo);  Field,  Life  of 
John  Howard  (Lond.  1850,  8vo) ; Slceats,  History  of  the 
Free  Churches  of  England,  p.  479. 

Howard,  John,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 

I was  born  of  Roman  Catholic  ancestry  in  Onslow  County, 
North  Carolina,  in  1792.  His  early  education  was  lim- 
ited, as  his  father  died  shortly  after  the  birth  of  John, 
and  he  was  placed  in  a store  at  the  age  of  twelve.  He 
was  converted  in  1808,  and  entered  the  ministry  in  1818 
at  Georgetown.  In  1819  he  joined  the  South  Carolina 
Conference,  and  was  stationed  at  Sandy  River  Circuit. 
In  1820  he  was  appointed  to  Georgetown.  1821  to  Savan- 
nah, 1822  to  Augusta,  and  1823  and  1824  to  Charleston. 
He  located  from  1825  till  1828,  when  he  was  appointed  to 
the  Washington  and  Greensborougli  Circuits.  In  1829 
and  1830  he  labored  on  the  Appalacliee  Circuit.  In  1831 
he  joined  the  Georgia  Conference,  then  forming,  and  for 
three  years  became  presiding  elder  of  the  Milledgeville 
District.  From  1834  to  the  time  of  his  death  in  1836, 
he  was  agent  for  the  “ Manual  Labor  School”  of  the  Con- 
ference. “Mr.  Howard’s  ministry,  especially  in  Savan- 
nah, Augusta,  and  Charleston,  was  attended  with  marked 
success.  He  labored  with  great  fidelity,  not  only  in  the 
pulpit,  but  with  penitents  at  the  altar,  being  alike  fer- 
vent in  his  prayers  and  appropriate  in  his  counsels.  As 
a pastor,  too,  be  was  always  on  the  alert  to  promote  the 
best  interests  of  his  people.  Whenever  there  was  dark- 
ness to  be  dissipated,  or  grief  to  be  assuaged,  or  sinking 
hope  to  be  encouraged,  or  evil  of  any  kind  to  be  re- 
moved, there  he  was  sure  to  be  present  as  an  angel  of 
mere}’.” — Sprague,  Annals  of  the  American  Pulpit,  vii, 
614  sq. 

Howard,  Simeon,  D.D.,  a Unitarian  Congrega- 
tional minister,  was  bom  at  Bridgewater,  Maine,  April 
29,  1733,  and  educated  at  Harvard  College,  where  he 
graduated  with  distinguished  honor  in  1758.  After  a 
course  of  theological  study,  pursued  while  himself  en- 
gaged in  teaching,  he  accepted  a call  to  a church  at 
Cumberland,  Nova  Scotia.  In  1765  he  returned  to  Cam- 
bridge as  a resident  graduate  student,  and  was  elected 
tutor  the  year  following.  In  1767  he  accepted  the  pas- 
torate of  West  Church,  Boston,  and  was  ordained  May 
6,  1768.  During  the  Revolution  his  congregation  suf- 
fered greatly,  and  having  made  many  friends  during  his 
residence  in  Nova  Scotia,  he  proposed  that  his  congre- 
gation should  emigrate  with  him  thither,  which  they 
did.  After  about  one  year  and  a half  he  returned  to 
Boston,  and  again  served  his  congregation  there,  receiv- 
ing only  such  compensation  for  his  services  as  he  was 
fully  satisfied  they  could  afford  to  give  in  their  desti- 
tute circumstances.  He  died  in  the  midst  of  his  labors 
among  them,  August  13, 1804.  The  degree  of  D.D.  wras 
conferrecl  on  him  by  Edinburgh  University.  He  ivas 
an  overseer  and  fellow'  of  Harvard,  and  a member  of 
most  of  the  American  societies  for  the  promotion  of  lit- 
erary, charitable,  and  religious  objects,  and  an  officer  of 
several  of  them.  Dr.  Howard  was  “ bland  and  gentle  in 
his  manner,  calm  and  equable  in  his  temper,  cheerful 
without  levity,  and  serious  without  gloom.  . . . His 


HOWE 


379 


IIOWE 


parishioners  loved  him  as  a brother,  and  honored  him 
as  a father;  his  brethren  in  the  ministry  always  met 
him  with  a gratefid  and  cordial  welcome;  and  the  com- 
munity at  large  reverenced  him  for  his  simplicity,  in- 
tegrity, and  benevolence.”  Dr.  Howard  published  Ser- 
mons (1773, 1777, 1778, 1780): — Christians  have  no  Cause 
to  ha  ashamed  of  their  Reliyion  (sermon,  1779): — Ordi- 
nation Sermon  (1791). — Sprague,  Annals  of  the  Ameri- 
can Pulpit , viii,  G5. 

Howe,  Bezaleel,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
was  born  at  Tower  Hill,  Dutchess  County,  N.  Y.,  July 
14,  1781.  In  early  life  he  was  a student  of  Paine  and 
Rousseau,  and  for  several  years  a professed  infidel ; but 
the  unhappy  death  of  a notorious  infidel  of  his  acquaint- 
ance was  the  means  of  his  conversion,  and  in  1823  he 
entered  the  New  York  Conference,  in  which  he  labored 
with  great  zeal  and  success  until  his  death,  June  25, 
1854.  He  was  fond  of  study,  and  his  piety  and  abilities 
honored  and  edified  the  Church. — Min.  of  Conferences , 
v,  533.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Howe,  Charles,  a distinguished  English  diploma- 
tist under  Charles  II,  was  born  in  Gloucestershire  in 
1061.  Being  of  a strong  religious  turn,  lie  finally  for- 
sook public  life,  and  retired  into  the  country,  where  he 
wrote  his  Devout  Meditations  (8vo:  2d  ed.  Edinb.  1752, 
12mo  ; Lond.  1824, 12mo,  and  often),  of  which  the  poet, 
Dr.  Edward  Young,  says,  “ I shall  never  lay  it  far  out  of 
my  reach,  for  a greater  demonstration  of  a sound  head 
and  sincere  heart  1 never  saw.”  Howe  died  in  1745. — 
Lond.  Gentl.  May.  vol,  lxiv;  Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors , 
i,  902 ; Gorton,  Bioy.  Diet.  s.  v. 

Howe,  John,  a Nonconformist  divine,  and  one 
of  the  greatest  of  English  theologians,  who  is  often 
called  the  “Platonic  Puritan,”  was  born  May  17,  1G30, 
at  Loughborough,  in  Leicestershire,  where  his  father 
was  the  incumbent  of  the  parish  church ; but,  having 
become  a Nonconformist,  he  was  ejected  from  his  living, 
and  retired  to  Ireland.  He  soon,  however,  returned  to 
England,  and  settled  in  the  town  of  Lancaster,  where 
John  received  his  rudimentary  instruction  from  his  fa- 
ther. He  was  afterwards  educated  at  Christ  College, 
Cambridge,  but  removed  to  Brazenose  College,  Oxford, 
of  which  he  became  the  biblc-clerk  in  1G4S,  and  where 
he  for  the  second  time  took  his  degree  of  B.A.  in  1649. 
He  was  made  a demy  of  Magdalen  College  by  the  par- 
liamentary visitors,  ami  was  afterwards  chosen  a fel- 
low. In  July,  1G52,  he  took  the  degree  of  M.A.  Af- 
ter having  been  ordained  by  a Nonconformist  divine, 
assisted  by  others,  he  became  a minister  at  Great  Tor- 
rington,  in  Devonshire.  In  1654  Cromwell  appointed 
him  his  domestic  chaplain.  He  gave  some  offence  to 
the  protector  by  one  of  his  sermons,  in  which  he  cen- 
sured certain  opinions  about  divine  impulses  and  special 
impressions  in  answer  to  prayer,  but  retained  his  situa- 
tion till  Cromwell’s  death,  and  afterwards  till  the  depo- 
sition of  Richard  Cromwell.  He  then  resumed  and 
continued  his  ministry  at  Great  Torrington  till  the  Act 
of  Uniformity,  August,  1GG2,  obliged  him  to  restrict  his 
preaching  to  private  houses.  He  went  to  Ireland  in 
1G71,  where  he  resided  as  chaplain  to  the  family  of  lord 
Massarene,  enjoying  there  the  friendship  of  the  bishop 
of  that  diocese,  llowe  was  granted  liberty  to  preach  in 
all  the  churches  under  the  jurisdiction  of  this  bishop. 
He  wrote  at  this  time  his  Vanity  of  Man  as  Mortal , 
and  began  his  greatest  work,  The  Living  Temple,  be- 
low referred  to.  In  1675  he  accepted  an  invitation  to 
become  the  minister  of  a congregation  in  London.  Dur- 
ing the  year  1680  he  engaged  in  a controversy  with  Drs. 
Stillingflect  and  Tillotson  on  the  question  of  nonconfor- 
mity, and  it  is  said  that  Dr.  Stillinglleet,  who  had  pro- 
voked the  controversy  by  a discourse  which  he  preach- 
ed before  the  lord  mayor  and  aldermen  of  London  on 
“The  Mischief  of  Separation,”  was  subdued  when  he 
read  Howe’s  reply,  and  confessed  that  he  discoursed 
“more  like  a gentleman  than  a divine,  without  any 
mixture  of  rancor,  or  any  sharp  reflections,  and  some- 


| times  with  a great  degree  of  kindness  towards  him,  for 
which,  and  his  prayers  for  him,  he  heartily  thanked 
him”  (Rogers’s  Life  of  Home,  p.  183).  In  August,  1685, 
he  went  to  the  Continent  with  lord  Wharton,  and  in 
1686  became  one  of  the  preachers  to  the  English  church 
at  Utrecht.  When  James  II  published  his  “declara- 
tion for  liberty  of  conscience,”  1 1 owe  returned  to  London, 
and  at  the  Revolution,  the  year  following,  he  headed  the 
deputation  of  dissenting  ministers  who  presented  their 
petition  to  the  throne.  In  1689  he  again  pleaded  the 
cause  of  the  Nonconformists  in  an  anonymous  pamphlet 
entitled  The  Case  of  the  Protestant  Dissenters  represent- 
ed and  aryued.  In  1691  he  became  involved  in  the 
Antinomian  controversy  by  a recommendation  which 
he  gave  to  the  works  of  Dr.  Crisp.  lie  soon,  however, 
cleared  his  reputation  by  a strong  recommendation  of 
Flavel’s  Blow  at  the  Root,  a work  against  Antinomian- 
ism,  then  in  the  course  of  publication.  In  1701  he  be- 
came entangled  in  a controversy  with  the  Puritan  De 
Foe  (q.  v.)  on  account  of  one  of  Howe’s  members,  who 
had  been  elected  lord  mayor,  and  who,  in  order  to  qual- 
ify himself  for  that  office,  had  taken  the  Lord’s  Supper 
in  an  Established  church.  The  manner  in  which  llowe 
answered  {Some  Considerations  of  a Preface  to  an  In- 
quiry, etc.)  the  objections  of  De  Foe,  who  opposed  com- 
munion in  the  Established  Church  by  Nonconformists, 
is  to  be  regretted  by  all  who  venerate  the  name  of  John 
Howe.  He  died  April  2,  1705.  Among  the  Puritans, 
John  llowe  ranks  as  one  of  the  most  eminent.  He  was 
also  unquestionably  a man  of  great  general  learning. 
“ The  originality  and  compass  of  llowe’s  mind,  and  the 
calmness  and  moderation  of  his  temper,  must  ever  in- 
spire sympathy  and  awaken  admiration  in  reflective 
readers : his  Platonic  and  Alexandrian  culture  com- 
mends him  to  the  philosophical  student,  and  the  prac- 
tical tendency  of  his  religious  thinking  endears  him  to 
all  Christians”  (Stoughton  [John],  Eccles.  Hist,  of  Enyl. 
ii,  422,  423).  “Perhaps  it  may  be  considered  as  no  un- 
fair test  of  intellectual  and  spiritual  excellence  that  a 
person  can  relish  the  writings  of  John  llowe;  if  he  docs 
not,  he  may  have  reason  to  suspect  that  something  in 
his  head  or  heart  is  wrong.  A young  minister  who 
wishes  to  attain  eminence  in  his  profession,  if  he  has  not 
the  works  of  John  llowe,  and  can  procure  them  in  no 
other  way,  should  sell  his  coat  and  buy  them;  and,  if 
that  will  not  suffice,  let  him  sell  his  bed  and  lie  on  the 
floor;  and  if  he  spends  his  days  in  reading  them,  he  will 
not  complain  that  he  lies  hard  at  night”  (Boguc  and 
Bennett,  Hist,  of  Dissenters,  i,  437).  “llowe  seems  to 
have  understood  the  Gospel  as  well  as  any  uninspired 
writer,  and  to  have  imbibed  as  much  of  its  spirit.  There 
is  the  truest  sublimity  to  be  found  in  bis  writings,  and 
some  of  the  strongest  pathos;  yet,  often  obscure,  gener- 
ally harsh,  he  has  imitated  the  worst  parts  of  Boyle’s 
style.  He  lias  a vast  number  and  variety  of  uncommon 
thoughts,  and  is,  on  the  whole,  one  of  the  most  valuable 
writers  in  our  language,  or,  1 believe,  in  the  world”  (Dr. 
Doddridge).  “I  have  learned  more  from  John  llowe 
than  from  any  other  author  1 ever  read.  There  is  an 
astonishing  magnificence  in  his  conceptions”  (Robert 
Hall).  “ This  great  man  was  one  of  the  few  who  have 
been  venerated  as  much  hv  their  contemporaries  as  by 
their  successors.  Time,  which  commonly  adds  increased 
lustre  to  the  memory  of  the  good,  has  not  been  able  to 
magnify  any  of  the  qualities  for  which  Howe  was  so 
conspicuous.  Ilis  strong  and  capacious  intellect,  his 
sublime  elevation  of  thought,  bis  flowing  eloquence,  the 
holiness  of  his  life,  the  dignity  and  courtesy  of  his  man  • 
ners,  the  humor  of  his  conversation,  won  for  him  from 
the  men  of  his  own  time  the  title  of  • the  great  llowe’” 
(Skeats,  Hist,  of  the  Free  Churches  of  Enylaml,  p.  169). 

1 Iowe’s  most  important  works  are,  The  Liriny  Temple 
(many  editions;  first  in  1676),  in  which  he  proves  the 
existence  of  God  and  his  conversableness  with  men,  and 
which  occupies  one  of  the  highest  places  in  Puritan 
theology: — The  Redeemer's  Tears  over  lost  Souls  [Luke 
xix,  41 ,42],  with  an  A ppendix  on  the  Blasphemy  ayainst 


IIOWE 


380 


HOWELL 


the  Holy  Ghost  (Lond.  1684;  often  reprinted),  in  •which  ! 
Howe  does  not,  unlike  many  high  Calvinistic  theolo-  j 
gians,  enter  at  all  into  the  predestination  controversy, 
but  coniines  himself  to  a solution  of  the  question  of 
God’s  omniscience  and  man’s  responsibility:  — Inquiry  \ 
concerning  the  Trinity , etc.: — Office  and  Work  of  the 
Holy  Spirit.  These,  with  his  Sermons  and  other  writ- 
ings, arc  to  be  found  in  his  Collected  1 Vorks,  with  Life 
by  Dr.  Calamy  (1724,  2 vols.  folio) ; and  in  The  u-hole  I 
Works  of  the  Rev.  John  Howe,  M. A.,  edited  by  Hunt 
(London,  1810-22,  7 vols.  8vo,  with  an  eighth  vol.,  con- 
taining a Memoir  and  additional  works),  and  again  in 
The  Works  of  the  Rev.  John  Howe,  M.A.,  as  published 
during  his  life,  comprising  the  whole  of  the  two  folio  vol- 
umes, ed.  1724,  with  a Life  of  the  Author,  by  the  Rev.  J. 
P.  Hewlett  (London,  1848, 3 vols.  8vo).  There  is  also  an 
edition  of  his  Works  in  1 vol.  imp.  8vo  (London,  1838), 
and  an  American  edition  (Phila.  2 vols.  imp.  8vo).  See 
also  Wilson,  Selections  from  Howe,  with  his  Life  (Lond. 
1827,  2 vols.  12mo);  Taylor,  Select  Treatises  of  John 
Howe  (1835,  12mo);  Rogers,  Life  of  John  Howe,  with 
an  Analysis  of  his  Writings  (Lond.  1836,  12mo)  ; Dunn, 
Howe's  Christian  Theology  (Lond.  1836,  12mo);  English 
Cyclopaedia ; Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors , i,  002 ; Quar- 
terly Review  (Lond.),  xxxvi,  167 ; Literary  and  Theolog- 
ical Review,  iv,  538 ; Meth.  Quart.  Rev.  Oct.  1862,  p.  676 ; 
Hook,  Eccl.  Biog.  vi,  198  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Howe,  Joseph,  a Congregational  minister,  born 
at  KiUingly,  Connecticut,  January  14,  1747.  was  edu- 
cated at  Yale  College,  where  he  graduated  in  1765,  the 
first  in  liis  class.  By  recommendation  of  the  president 
of  his  college  he  was  appointed  principal  of  a public 
school  at  Hartford,  at  that  time  the  most  important  in- 
stitution of  that  class  in  the  colony.  He  was  licensed 
to  preach  in  1769,  and  was  appointed  tutor  at  Yale  in 
the  same  year.  He  held  this  position,  preaching  quite 
frequently,  until  called  to  the  New  South  Church,  Bos- 
ton, in  1772,  where  he  was  ordained  May  19,  1773.  At 
the  outbreak  of  the  Revolution  (1775)  he  fled  to  Nor- 
wich, where  he  remained  only  a short  time,  as  his 
health  had  become  enfeebled.  lie  went  to  New  Haven, 
and  on  liis  return  stopped  at  Hartford,  where  he  died, 
Aug.  25, 1 77 5. — Sprague,  A nnals  of  the  A merican  Pulpit, 
i,  707  sq. 

Howe,  Josiah,  an  English  divine  of  the  17th  cen- 
tury, born  at  Crendon,  Bucks  County,  was  educated  at 
Oxford,  and  obtained  a fellowship  at  Trinity  College,  of 
that  University,  in  1637.  He  found  great  favor  with 
Charles  I,  at  whose  command  he  was  admitted  to  the 
degree  of  bachelor  of  divinity  in  1646.  After  the  ruin 
of  the  royal  house  he  was  ejected  from  his  fellowship, 
but  was  restored  to  his  preferment  after  the  restoration 
of  the  monarchy.  He  died  in  1701.  See  Wood,  A then. 
(Iron.  vol.  iii ; Gorton,  Biog.  Diet,  ii,  s.  v. 

Howe,  Nathaniel,  a Congregational  minister, 
was  born  in  Ipswich,  Mass.,  Oct.  6, 1764.  He  graduated 
at  Harvard  College  in  1786,  and  was  ordained  pastor  at 
Ilopkinton  Oct.  5, 1791,  where  he  labored  until  his  death, 
Feb.  15,  1837.  He  published  An  Attempt  to  prove,  that 
John's  Baptism  was  not  Gospel  Baptism,  being  a Reply 
to  Dr.  Baldwin's  Essay  on  the  same  Subject  (1820) : — A 
Catechism  with  miscellaneous  Questions,  and  a Chapter 
of  Provei'bs  for  the  Children  under  his  parochial  Cure. 
See  Sprague,  Annals,  ii,  307 ; North  American  Review, 
iv,  93-97. 

Howell,  Horatio  S.,  a rresbyterian  minister,  bom 
near  Trenton,  N.  J.,  in  1820,  was  educated  at  Princeton 
College,  and  the  Union  Theological  Seminary,  N.  Y.  In 
1846  he  was  ordained  pastor  of  East  Whitcland  Church, 
Pa.  He  subsequently  became  pastor  of  the  Church  at 
Elkton,Md.,and  at  the  Delaware  Water  Gap,  Pa.  While 
he  was  laboring  at  this  latter  place  the  Rebellion  broke 
out.  He  at  once  entered  the  army  as  chaplain  of  the 
90th  Regiment  Pennsylvania  Volunteers.  His  reputa- 
tion as  chaplain  was  pre-eminent  for  arduous,  zealous, 
and  judicious  devotion.  He  was  killed  at  the  battle  of 


Gettysburg,  Pa.,  July  1, 1863. — Wilson, Pres.  Hist.  Alma- 
nac, 1864. 

Howell,  Lawrence,  a distinguished  Nonjuror, 
was  born  soon  after  the  Restoration,  about  1660.  He 
studied  at  Jesus  College,  Cambridge,  where  he  gradua- 
ted B.A.  in  1684,  and  M.A.  in  1688.  Having  entered 
the  Church,  he  was  ordained  in  1712  by  the  nonjuring 
bishop,  Dr.  Hickes,  who  had  taken  the  title  of  suffragan 
bishop  of  Tlietford.  He  soon  after  published  a pam- 
phlet entitled  The  Case  of  Schism  in  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land truly  stated,  for  which  he  was  committed  to  New- 
gate, convicted,  and  condemned  to  three  years’  impris- 
onment, besides  whipping,  a fine  of  £500,  and  degrada- 
tion. This  latter  part  was  remitted  him,  however,  by 
the  king.  He  died  in  Newgate  in  1720.  Whatever  his 
errors,  the  punishment  appears  to  have  been  dispropor- 
tionate to  his  offence.  He  was  a man  of  extensive 
learning  and  great  capacity.  He  wrote  Synopsis  Cano- 
nurn  S.S.  Apostolorum  et  Conciliorum  (Ecumenieorum  et 
Prorincialium  abEeclesia  Gra  ca  receptorum  (1708,  fol.): 
— Synops.  Canon.  Eccles.  Lat.  (1710-1715,  fid.) : — A View 
of  the  Pontificate  from  its  supposed  beginning  to  the  end 
of  the  Council  of  Trent , etc.  (Lond.  1716, 8vo) : — Desidc- 
rius,  or  the  original  Pilgrim ; a divine  Dialogue  (from 
the  Spanish)  (Lond.  1717, 12mo) : — A complete  History 
of  the  Holy  Bible,  with  additions  by  Rev.  Geo.  Burder 
(Lond.  1806,  3 vols.  8vo) : — Certain  Queries  proposed  by 
Roman  Catholics,  etc.  (Lond.  1716);  etc. — Darling,  Cy- 
clopcedia  Bibliogruphica,  i,  1563;  Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi, 
199;  Hocfer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  313  sq.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Howell,  Robert  Boyte  Crawford,  D.D.,  a 

prominent  Baptist  preacher  in  Tennessee,  was  born  in 
Wayne  County,  North  Carolina,  March  10,  1801.  He 
pursued  his  literary  and  theological  studies  in  Colum- 
bian College,  also  the  study  of  medicine,  but  without  in- 
tending its  practice.  With  this  preparation,  he  entered 
upon  the  duties  of  the  ministry  in  the  Episcopal  Church, 
of  which  his  family  were  communicants;  but,  quite  un- 
expectedly to  his  friends,  he  soon  joined  the  Baptists, 
travelling  fourteen  miles  to  reach  the  nearest  Baptist 
church  for  this  purpose,  Feb.  6, 1821.  Five  days  after-** 
wards  he  received  license  to  preach  the  doctrines  of  the 
Baptist  Church.  At  Washington  he  performed,  in  con- 
nection with  his  theological  studies,  the  duties  of  a city 
missionary,  and  for  a year  after  the  completion  of  his 
course  he  was  a missionary'  in  Virginia.  He  then  accepted 
a call  to  the  pastorate  of  the  Cumberland  Street  Baptist 
Church  in  Norfolk.  He  was  ordained  Jan.  27,1827.  A 
revival  immediately  followed,  as  the  fruits  of  whieh  he 
baptized  about  260  within  a few  months.  His  labors 
continued  here  for  eight  years.  In  1834  he  removed  to 
Nashville,  Tenn.  The  First  Baptist  Church  had  been 
dispersed  by  the  Rev.  Alexander  Campbell  and  his  dis- 
ciples, but  under  Mr.  Howell’s  labors  it  was  revived  and 
built  up.  He  established,  and  for  some  time  edited  a 
religious  newspaper.  He  exerted  more  influence  in 
the  support  of  missions  than  any  other  minister  of  the 
denomination  in  Tennessee.  After  the  organization  of 
the  Southern  Baptist  Convention,  he  was  elected  and 
re-elected  its  president.  In  1850  he  removed  to  Rich- 
mond, Va.,  where,  in  addition  to  the  charge  of  a church, 
he  was  a trustee  of  Richmond  College,  and  of  the  Ric  h- 
mond Female  Institute,  a member  of  the  Southern  Bap- 
tist Foreign  Mission,  Publication,  and  Sunday-school 
Boards,  and  of  the  Virginia  Baptist  Mission  and  Educa- 
tional Board.  In  1857  he  yielded  to  an  urgent  call  to 
reoccupv  his  former  field  of  labor  in  Nashville.  There, 
besides  efficiently  promoting  all  the  State  Baptist  organ- 
izations, he  was,  by  appointment  of  the  Legislature,  a 
trustee  of  the  Institution  for  the  Blind,  and  in  other  ed- 
ucational trusts.  His  labors  were  arduous ; in  addition 
to  which,  he  performed  a considerable  amount  of  literary' 
work,  including  some  of  his  most  useful  books.  He  died 
in  1867,  greatly  honored  and  lamented.  Dr.  Howell  was 
a man  of  commanding  presence  and  dignified  address, 
warm  and  genial  in  his  manners.  His  labors  as  a 


HOW  GILL 


381 


IIOYEI1 


preacher  of  the  Gospel  were  abundant  and  successful, 
and  some  of  his  published  works  had  a wide  circulation 
in  this  country,  and  were  republished  in  England,  lie 
was  the  author  of  Evils  of  Infant  Baptism  :—T1ie  Cross : 
— The  Covenants: — The  Early  Baptists  of  Virginia 
On  Communion: — The  Deuconship  : — The  Way  of  Sal- 
vation. lie  left  several  works  in  manuscript,  among 
them,  “The  Christology  of  the  Pentateuch.”  an  enlarge- 
ment of  “ The  Covenants,”  and  “ The  Family.”  1 Ie  was 
also  a frequent  contributor  to  the  periodicals  of  his 
Church.  (L.  E.  S.) 

Howgill,  Francis,  a noted  preacher  of  “ the 
Friends,”  was  born  about  1038  in  Westmoreland,  Eng- 
land. lie  was  brought  up  and  educated  in  the  Church 
of  England,  but  withdrew  from  the  national  Church  af- 
ter graduation  in  the  university,  and  joined  the  Inde- 
pendents, among  whom  he  held  an  eminent  position  as 
minister.  In  1052  he  became  an  adherent  to  the  doc- 
trines of  George  Fox,  the  Quaker.  Two  years  later,  he 
set  out  with  two  others  of  the  Society  of  Friends  to 
preach  their  doctrines  for  the  first  time  at  London.  He 
even  went  before  the  protector  Cromwell,  to  seek  his  in- 
fluence in  aid  of  the  Quakers,  who  were  then  greatly 
persecuted, both  in  the  country  and  at  London;  but  he 
does  not  seem  to  have  been  successful  in  his  effort,  lie 
escaped,  however,  after  this  interview,  all  personal  mo- 
lestation as  long  as  he  continued  preaching  in  London, 
lie  and  his  friends  next  went  to  Bristol,  where  they  met 
with  much  better  success.  “Multitudes  flocked  to  hear 
them,  and  many  embraced  their  doctrine.”  The  clergy 
became  alarmed,  and  Howgill  and  his  colaborers  were 
summoned  before  the  magistrates,  and  commanded  to 
leave  the  city  immediately.  Considering  themselves 
entitled  to  remain,  as  “free-born  Englishmen,”  they  tar- 
ried in  the  city,  and  continued  to  meet  with  success. 
In  1663  we  find  Ilowgill  at  Ivendal,  again  summoned  be- 
fore the  justices  of  the  place,  who  tendered  him  the  oath 
of  allegiance,  and  on  his  conscientious  refusal  of  it  com- 
mitted him  to  prison,  in  which  he  remained  until  his 
death,  .Jan.  20, 1688.  Howgill  wrote  a copious  treatise 
against  oaths  while  in  prison.  He  also  published  The 
Jiawnings  of  the  Gospel  Day , and  its  Light  and  Glory 
discovered  (Loud.  167G,  fol.).  See  Neal e,  History  of  the 
Tur  items  (Harper’s  edit.),ii,413, 420;  Gough,  Hist,  of  the 
Quakers,  i,  112, 12G,  144,  etc.;  ii, 31,  90  sq., 23G  sq.  (J. 
II.  AV.) 

Howie,  John,  a Scotch  Presbyterian,  was  born  at 
Loehgoin  Nov.  14,  1735.  Ilis  father  died  when  John 
was  only  one  year  old.  and  he  was  removed  to  his  grand- 
parents’at  Blaekhill, where  he  received  a limited  educa- 
tion. In  17G6  he  returned  to  the  farm  of  Loehgoin,  to 
pursue  the  study  of  Church  history  and  religious  biog- 
raphy, to  which  he  had  devoted  much  of  his  time  for 
several  years.  In  17G7  his  early  religious  impressions 
assumed  the  fonn  of  decided  piety,  and  he  determined 
to  serve  the  Church  by  preparing  the  book  for  which  he  J 
is  celebrated,  The  Scotch  Worthies.  “ It  is  a work  of  no 
inconsiderable  labor ; for,  though  the  biographical  infor- 
mation he  had  procured,  and  with  which  his  powerful 
memory  was  richly  stored,  must  have  greatly  facilitated 
the  task,  yet,  living  remote  from  cities,  and  almost  shut 
out  from  the  abodes  of  civilized  life,  the  difficulty  of  cor- 
respondence and  the  want  of  books  must  have  tended 
not  a little  to  render  his  task  both  painful  and  irksome. 
Under  all  these  disadvantages,  however,  did  Mr.  Howie, 
in  the  seclusion  of  Loehgoin,  bring  the  work  to  a suc- 
cessful termination.  The  first  edition  appeared  in  1774, 
and  a second,  greatly  enlarged,  in  1785  (new  edit.,  re- 
vised, corrected,  and  enlarged,  with  a preface  and  notes 
by  Wm.  McGavin,  Edinb.  and  N.  Y..  1853,  8vo).  Like 
the  ‘Pilgrim’s  Progress,’  it  has  been  long  so  extensively 
popular  with  all  classes  of  the  community,  that  it  has 
secured  for  itself  a position  from  which  it  will  never  be 
dislodged,  as  long  as  Presbyterianism,  and  a religious  at- 
tachment to  the  covenanted  work  of  Reformation,  con- 


tinue to  engage  the  attention  of  the  natives  of  Scot- 


land." Resides  this  work,  Mr.  Howie  published,  1.  a 
collection  of  Lectures  ami  Sermons,  by  some  of  the  most 
eminent  ministers,  preached  during  the  stormiest  days 
of  the  Persecution : — 2.  An  Alarm  to  a secure  Genera- 
tion:— 3.  Faithful  Contendings  displayed ; an  account  of 
the.  suffering  remnant  of  the  Church  of  Scotland  from 
1681-1691: — 4.  Faithful  Witness-bearing  exemplified : — 
5.  Patronage  Anatomised,  a work  which,  next  to  the 
“Scots’  Worthies,”  must  be  regarded  as  superior  to  all 
his  other  writings: — 6.  Vindication  of  the  Modes  of  han- 
dling the  Elements  in  the  Lord's  Supper  before  giving 
Thanks;  written  during  the  controversy  on  this  subject 
among  the  Antiburgher  sccedcrs : — 7.  Clarkson's  plain 
Iieasons  for  Dissenting,  with  a preface  and  notes,  and  an 
abstract  of  the  principles  of  the  Reformed  presbytery 
regarding  civil  government: — 8.  Preface  to  Mr.  Brown 
of  Wamphruy's  Looking-glass  of  the  Lam  and  the  Gos- 
pel. Howie  died  in  Sept.  1791.  “He  was,  indeed,  a 
marked  character,  whether  at  home,  in  the  public  mar- 
ket, or  at  church;  and  wherever  he  went,  the  fame  of 
his  piety  and  varied  acquirements  contributed  greatly 
to  his  influence”  (Biogr.  Sketch  prefixed  to  the  Amer. 
edition  of  his  “Scotch  Worthies”). — Allibonc,  Diet,  of 
J uthors,  i,  905.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Howley,  William,  D.D.,  an  English  prelate,  was 
born  at  Ropley,  Hampshire,  in  17G5.  He  was  educated 
at  Winchester  school,  and  in  1783  went  to  New  College, 
Oxford.  He  was  elected  fellow  in  1785,  became  canon 
of  Christ  Church  in  18<)4,  regius  professor  of  divinity  in 
1809,  bishop  of  London  in  1813,  and,  finally,  archbishop 
of  Canterbury  in  1828.  lie  died  in  1848.  Ilis  princi- 
pal works  are  Sermon  [on  Isa.  liv,  13]  (London,  1814, 
8vo) :— Sermon  [on  Psa.  xx,  7,8]  (Thanksgiving,  when 
the  eagles  taken  at  Waterloo  were  deposited  in  the 
Chapel  Royal,  Whitehall)  (Lond.  1816, 4to) : — .1  Charge 
delivered  to  the  Clergy  of  the  Diocese  of  London  at  the. 
Visitation  of  1818  (Loud.  1818, 8vo)  : — .1  Charge  deliv- 
ered to  the  Clergy  of  the  Diocese  of  London  in  July,  182G 
(Loud.  1826, 4to). — Darling,  Cyclopaedia  Bibliographica, 
i,  15G4. 

Howson,  Joiix,  an  English  divine,  bom  in  London 
in  155G,  was  educated  at  Christ  Church,  Oxford.  He 
filled  successively  the  vicaratc  of  Bampton,  in  Oxford- 
shire, the  rectorate  at  Bright  well,  in  Berkshire,  and  then 
became  fellow  of  Chelsea  College,  and  canon  of  Here- 
ford. In  1G19  he  was  appointed  bishop  of  Oxford,  and 
was  transferred  to  the  bishopric  of  Durham  in  1G28. 
He  was  also  at  one  time  vice-chancellor  of  Oxford. 
While  in  this  position  “ he  exerted  himself  against  those 
Puritans  who  opposed  the  discipline  and  ceremonies,  but 
was  afterwards  a more  distinguished  writer  and  preach- 
er against  popery.”  He  died  in  1631.  Howson  was  the 
author  of  a number  of  sermons  (published  1597-1661) ; 
and  four  of  his  polemical  discourses  against  the  suprem- 
acy of  St.  Peter  were  published  by  order  of  king  James 
I, “to  clear  the  aspersions  laid  upon  him  (Howson)  of 
favoring  popery”  (1622,  4to).  See  Hook,  Eccles.  Biogr. 
vi,  202 ; Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors,  i,  908. 

Hoyer,  Axxa,  a German  enthusiast,  was  born  at 
Goldenbuttel,  near  Eiderstadt  (Schleswig),  in  1584. 
Her  maiden  name  was  Owen.  In  1599  she  married  a 
nobleman  called  Hoyer,  and  when  he  died  she  retired 
to  one  of  her  estates,  where  she  devoted  herself  to  belles- 
lettres  and  poetry.  Becoming  acquainted  with  an  al- 
chemist named  Teting,  who  attended  her  during  a sick- 
ness, she  was  soon  fascinated  by  the  views  of  the  mys- 
tic, whom  she  took  into  her  house,  and  considered  as  a 
prophet.  She  afterwards  joined  the  Anabaptists,  ami 
thought  herself  inspired.  Her  ardor  in  making  prose- 
lytes caused  her  to  lose  nearly  her  whole  fortune,  ami, 
leaving  her  country,  she  went  to  Sweden,  where  she 
found  a protector  in  queen  Eleonora  Maria,  who  pre- 
sented her  with  an  estate  on  which  she  resided  until 
her  death  in  1656.  Her  views,  derived  from  Paracel- 
sus, David  Juris,  Seliwenckfeld,  Weigel,  and  other  mys- 
tics, are  expressed  in  indifferent  verses  in  her  Works 


HOZAI 


382 


IIUBER 


(Amsterd.  1050).  Some  of  her  writings  were  directed  I 
against  the  Lutherans.  See  -J.  G.  Feuch thing,  Gynecce- 
um  turret,  f uncit.  p.  350  sq. ; Arnold,  Kirchen-u.  Ketzer- 
hist.  iii,  10,  14  ; Iloefer,  Xour.  Bioy.  Gen.  xxv,  319. 

Hozai  (Ileb.  Chozay',  seer ; Sept,  oi  bowvTsg, 
Ynlg.  Hozai,  Auth.  Vers.  “ the  seers,"  marg.  “ llosai"),  a 
prophet  or  seer,  the  historiographer  of  Manasseh,  king 
of  Judah  (2  Chron.  xxxiii,  19).  B.C.  p.  042.  The  Jews 
are  of  opinion  that  llosai  and  Isaiah  are  the  same  per- 
son; the  Sept,  takes  llosai  in  a general  sense  for  proph- 
ets and  seers:  the  Syriac  calls  him  Hamm,  the  Arabie 
Sciplian. — Calmet,  s.  v.  Bertheau  ( Clironik . Einleit.  p. 
35)  conjectures  that  *1Vn  is  here  a corrupt  rendering  for 
dTH,  as  in  ver.  18;  but  for  this  there  is  only  the  au- 
thority of  a single  Codex  and  the  Sept.  (Davidson,  Tie- 
vision  of  Ileb.  Text,  p.  221,  b).  See  Chronicles. 

Hrabanur.  See  Babanus. 

Hroswitha.  See  Boswitiia. 

Hu,  the  most  eminent  god  of  the  Celtic  religion, 
originally  the  founder  of  the  religion  of  the  Druids. 
See  vol.  ii,  p.  180. 

Huarte,  Juan,  the  representative  of  Spanish  phi- 
losophy in  the  Middle  Ages,  was  a Frenchman  by  birth, 
ami  born  about  1530.  lie  was  educated  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Iluesca,  and  afterwards  devoted  himself  to  the 
study  of  medicine  and  philosophy.  The  work  to  which 
he  owes  his  great  reputation  is  entitled  Exumen  de  In- 
cjeidos,  para  las  sciencias  donde  de  muestra  la  dijferenciu 
de  habilidades  que  hay  en  los  hombres,  y elyenero  de  let  ms  j 
qnecada  ano  responde  en  particular  officinct  plantiniana 
(1593  ; sm.  8vo,  Famplon.  1575,  and  often).  This  work 
aims  to  show,  “ by  marvellous  and  useful  secrets,  drawn  , 
from  true  philosophy,  both  natural  and  divine,  the  gifts  j 
and  different  abilities  found  in  man,  and  for  what  kind 
of  study  the  genius  of  every  man  is  adapted,  in  such  a i 
manner  that  whoever  shall  read  this  book  attentively 
will  discover  the  properties  of  his  own  genius,  and  he  j 
able  to  make  choice  of  that  science  in  which  he  will 
make  the  greatest  improvement."  It  has  been  trans-  I 
latcd  into  English  by  Carew  and  Bellamy,  under  the 
title  Trial  of  the  Wits;  into  German  by  Lessing  (Prii- 
fiiny  eler  Kdpfe),  and  into  many  other  languages, 
lluarte  has  been  severely  reproached  for  having  pub- 
lished as  genuine  a spurious  letter  of  Lent  ulus,  the  pro- 
consul,  from  Jerusalem,  in  which  a description  of  the 
Saviour’s  person  is  given.  lie  died  near  the  close  of 
the  IGth  century.  See  Antonio,  Biblioth.  Hispana  nova, 
i,  543 ; Bavle,  llistor.  Diet,  iii,  528 ; Ticknor,  History  of 
Spanish  Lit.  iii,  189 ; Iloefer,  Xouv.  Bioy.  Generate,  xxv, 
333  sq.  (J.1I.W.) 

Hubald.  See  Hue  bald. 

Hubbard,  Austin  Osgood,  a Congregational 
minister,  was  horn  in  Sunderland,  Mass.,  Aug.  9,  1800. 
lie  was  educated  at  Yale  College,  where  lie  graduated 
in  1824.  He  pursued  his  theological  studies  under  the 
direction  of  the  Presbytery  of  Baltimore,  teaching  at 
the  same  time  in  the  academy  at  Franklin,  Md.  He 
was  licensed  to  preach  in  1820,  and  labored  as  a mis- 
sionary some  two  years  in  Frederick  County,  Md.  From 
1831  to  1833  he  was  at  Princeton  Theological  Seminary 
in  further  theological  studies,  and  preaching  to  vacant 
churches  in  the  vicinity.  In  1833,  during  I)r.  Alexan- 
der’s absence  in  Europe,  Mr.  Hubbard  was  appointed 
assistant  professor  of  Biblical  Literature.  In  1835  he 
went  to  Melbourne,  C.  E.,  and  labored  as  a missionary. 
In  1840  he  removed  to  Hardwick,  Vt.,  and  was  installed 
pastor  of  the  Congregational  Church  in  that  place  July 
7th,  1841.  In  1845  he  was  called  to  Barnet,  Vt.,  and 
preached  there  until  1851.  In  1855  he  accepted  a call 
to  Craftesbury,  Vt.,  where  he  remained  until  the  death 
of  his  wife  in  the  fall  of  1857,  when  he  became  mentally 
and  physically  prostrated,  and  he  was  removed  to  the 
Vermont  Insane  Asylum  in  March,  1858,  where  he  died 
Aug.  24th,  1858.  He  published  Five  Discourses  on  the 
moral  Obliyation  and  the  jmrticular  Duties  of  the  Sab-  i 


bath  (Harm.,  N.  H.,  1843,  lGmo).  “Fervent  piety  and 
thorough  scholarship  combined  to  render  him  a faithful 
and  able  minister  of  the  New  Testament.  His  views 
of  divine  truth  were  clear  and  strong,  his  manner  of  pre- 
senting them  forcible  and  impressive.  His  sermons 
were  logical,  and  weighty  with  mat  ter.’’—  Conyreyation- 
al  Quarterly,  i,  412  sq. 

Hubbard,  John,  an  English  divine  and  adherent 
of  the  “Independents,”  was  born  about  1092.  lie  was 
at  first  assistant  at  a church  in  Stepney,  and  after  the 
decease  of  Dr.  Taylor  succeeded  him  as  pastor  of  a 
congregation  at  Deptford.  This  position  he  held  for 
twenty-two  years  with  distinguished  skill,  fidelity,  and 
diligence.  In  1740  he  was  appointed  to  the  divinity 
chair  of  the  academy  of  the  Independents  at  London. 
“He  applied  himself  to  the  duties  of  this  office  with  ex- 
emplary diligence,  and  the  most  pleasing  hopes  were 
entertained  of  many  years  of  usefulness;  but  they  were 
extinguished  by  his  decease  in  July,  1743.”  He  pub- 
lished Two  Sermons  at  Coward's  Lecture  (London,  1729, 
8vo).  Niue  of  his  sermons  are  in  the  Berry  Street 
(Coward’s  Lecture)  Sermons  (2d  ed.  2 vols.  8vo,  1739). — 
Bogne  and  Bennett,  Hist,  of  Dissenters  (2d  edit.),  ii,  219 
sq. ; Allibone,  Diet,  of  A it  t hors,  i,  909. 

Hubbard,  William,  a Congregational  minister, 
was  horn  in  England  in  lG21,and  came  to  this  country 
with  his  parents  in  1G30.  11c  was  educated  at  Harvard 
College,  where  he  graduated  in  1G42,  a member  of  the 
first  class.  lie  is  said  to  have  pursued  a course  of  the- 
ological studies  with  the  Bev.  Mr.  Cobbet,  of  Ipswich, 
whom  he  also  assisted  in  the  pulpit.  He  was  ordained 
about  JG5G.  In  1G85  Mr.  Cobbet  died,  and  Hubbard  be- 
came his  successor.  In  1G8G  he  served  as  assistant  to  the 
Bov.  John  Dennison,  grandson  of  Major  General  Den- 
nison, who  w'as  also  a graduate  of  Harvard  (1G84).  In 
1GS9  Dennison  died,  and,  about  three  years  after,  the 
Rev.  John  Bogers,  son  of  the  president  of  Harvard,  be- 
came Hubbard’s  colleague.  In  1703,  enfeebled  by  age, 
Ilubbard  w’as  obliged  to  resign  his  charge,  and  the  peo- 
ple voted  him  sixty  pounds  as  a gratuity,  lie  died 
Sept.  14,  1704.  Ilis  writings  were  mainly  on  the  his- 
tory of  New  England,  and  he  left  a work  in  MS.  which 
has  been  of  serviee  to  American  historians.  lie  pub- 
lished a Xarraftre  of  the  Troubles  with  the  Indians  from 
1G07-1677,  with  a Discourse  (Bust.  1G77, 4to) : — Sermons 
(1G7G,  1G82,  1G84) and,  in  connection  with  the  Bcv. 
John  Higginson,  of  Salem,  Testimony  to  the  Order  of  the 
Gospel  in  the  Churches  (1701).  Hubbard  is  represented 
by  his  contemporaries  to  have  been  “ for  many  years  the 
most  eminent  minister  in  the  county  of  Essex,  equal  to 
any  in  the  province  for  learning  and  candor,  and  supe- 
rior to  all  his  contemporaries  as  a writer.” — Sprague, 
A nnals  A mer.  Pulpit,  i,  1 48  sq. ; Allibone,  Dictionary  of 
A uthors,  i,  909. 

Hubberthorn,  Richard,  a celebrated  Quaker  of 
the  17th  century,  was  at  first  a preacher  in  the  Parlia- 
ment’s army,  but  he  afterwards  joined  the  Quakers,  and, 
in  accordance  with  their  principles  of  peace,  quitted  the 
army.  After  preaching  some  nine  years,  he  vras  im- 
prisoned on  account  of  his  religious  belief,  and  died  from 
the  effects  at  Newgate,  June  17,  1GG2.  Hubberthorn 
w'as  one  of  the  Quakers  liberated  by  king  Charles  upon 
his  marriage  with  Catharine  of  Braganza,  who  ordered 
“the  release  of  Quakers  and  others  in  jail  in  London 
and  Middlesex  for  being  present  at  unlawful  assemblies, 
who  yet  profess  all  obedience  and  allegiance,  provided 
they  are  not  indicted  for  refusing  the  oatli  of  allegiance, 
nor  have  been  ringleaders  nor  preachers  at  their  assem- 
blies, hoping  thereby  to  reduce  them  to  a better  con- 
formity.” Just  before  this  event,  Hubberthorn,  together 
with  George  Fox,  had  addressed  the  king  and  demand- 
ed the  liberation  of  their  suffering  brethren. — Neal,  His', 
of  the  Puritans,  ii,  418 ; Stoughton,  Cedes.  Hist,  of  Dry- 
land, i,  275. 

Huber,  Johann  Ludwig,  a German  author  who 
at  first  studied  theology,  but  afterwards  devoted  his  time 


HUBER 


383 


IIUBMAYER 


mainly  to  the  study  of  jurisprudence,  deserves  our  no- 
tice on  account  of  Iris  1 'ersuche  mit  Gott  zu  reden  (sacreil 
songs)  (Reusl.1775;  T idling.  1787).  lie  died  at  Stutt- 
gardt  in  1800.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Huber,  Kaspar.  See  IIubeuinis. 

Huber,  Maria,  a celebrated  mystic,  was  bom  at 
Geneva  in  1(594.  She  retired  into  solitude  in  171-?,  to 
indulge  in  contemplation  and  mysticism.  She  after- 
wards returned  to  live  in  Geneva,  joined  the  Iloman 
Church,  and  died  at  Lyons  in  1759.  She  is  generally 
named  as  a deist,  yet  her  opinions  partook  rather  of  ex- 
treme mysticism  than  of  inlidelity.  Her  principal  works 
are  Lett  res  sur  la  religion  essentielle  a Vhomme  (Amsterd. 
1738 ; bond.  1739, 2 vols.),in  which  “ she  traces  all  relig- 
ion to  the  moral  necessities  of  the  heart,  and  considers 
revelation  a mere  auxiliary  to  natural  theology,  a means 
of  interpreting  it  to  our  own  consciousness”  (Hagenbach, 
Germ.  Rationalism,  p.  55  sq.) : — Recueil  de  diverse#  pieces 
servant  de  supplement  aux  Lcttres  sur  la  religion,  etc. 
(Berk  1754,2  vols. ; Loud.  I75G)  : — Le  momle  fou  prefere 
au  monde  sage,  dirise  en  trois  parties,  faisant  24  prome- 
nades (whence  the  work  is  sometimes  styled  Prome- 
nades') (Amst.  1731  and  1744): — Le  Systeme  des  thcolo- 
giens  anciens  et  modernes,  sur  Vetat  des  dmes  separees  des 
corps  (Amst.  1731, 1733, 1739) : — Reduction  du  Sport  at  eur 
A nglais  a ce  qu'il  renferme  de  meilleur,  etc.  (Par.  1753, 
12mo).  Senebier  considers  her  as  the  author  of  the  llis- 
toire  iVAhassay  (1753,  8vo),  which  is  generally  attribu- 
ted to  Alias  Fauqne.  See  Senebicr,  Hist,  litter,  de  Geneve, 
iii,  84;  Haag,  La  France  Protestante;  Pierer;  Iloefer, 
Nour.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  344. 

Huber,  Samuel,  a German  theologian,  was  born 
at.  Berne  in  1547.  He  studied  theology  in  Germany, 
and  became  pastor  at  Burgdorf.  He  was  much  given 
to  controversy,  especially  in  behalf  of  the  Lutheran  doc- 
trine on  the  Lord’s  Supper.  Censured  for  a speech  he 
made  on  the  15th  of  April,  1588,  he  nevertheless  con- 
tinued to  attack  the  doctrines  of  the  Reformed  Church, 
and  was,  in  consequence,  first  imprisoned,  and  then  ex- 
iled. In  July,  1588,  he  went  to  Tubingen,  where  he 
joined  the  Lutheran  Church,  lie  became  pastor  of 
Doredingen,  and  in  1592  professor  at  Wittenberg.  Ilis 
belief  in  free  grace,  and  in  the  universality  of  the  atone- 
ment, brought  him  into  antagonism  with  Ilunnius,  Lev- 
ser,  and  Gesner  (1592) ; the  breach  between  them  was 
not  healed  by  public  discussions  held  at  Wittenberg  and 
Regensburg  in  1594.  Huber  lias  been  wrongly  charged 
with  teaching  the  doctrine  of  universal  salvation.  He 
was  a determined  opponent  of  the  Calvinistic  doctrine 
of  predestination,  and  held  that  the  words  “decree”  and 
“election"  were  equivalent  to  “gracious  invitation,” 
which  God  extends  to  all  men  without  distinction. 
“But,  to  make  tlicir  calling  and  election  sure,  they  must 
repent  and  believe.”  Driven  out  of  Hesse -Cassel  in 
1594,  lie  resided  for  some  time  at  Jena,  Helnistiidt,  and 
Goslar.  He  died  March  25, 1 (524.  The  most  important 
among  his  numerous  works  arc  Christum  esse  mortuum 
pro  peer  at  is  omnium  hominum  (Tithing.  1590) : — Bestiin- 
diges  Bekenntniss  (1597) : — Anti-Bellarminus  (Gosl.  1(507, 
G vols.).  See  Acta  IJuheriana  (Tub.  1597 ; Lilli.  1598); 
Gbtzc,  Acta  Huh.  (Lilb.  1707);  Sehniid.  Lebensbeschrei- 
bung  (Ilehnst.  1708);  Pfaff,  lutrod.  in  Hist.  Liter.  Thcol. 
pt.  ii,  bk.  iii,  p.  431 ; Arnold,  Ketzerhistorie,  i,  952 ; AIos- 
heini,  Ch.  History,  iii,  158. 

Huberinus  (Heber),  Kaspar,  a Bavarian  monk, 
afterwards  a convert  to  Protestantism,  was  born  near 
the  close  of  the  1 5th  century.  He  became  a Protestant 
preacher  in  1525  at  Augsburg,  anil  was  appointed  to  a 
church  at  that  place  in  1527.  He  was  a zealous  oppo- 
nent of  the  Anabaptists,  who  were  quite  numerous  at 
Augsburg  about  that  time,  and  he  also  engaged  in  the 
Berne  disputations  on  the  ministration  of  the  sacrament. 
He  was  in  favor  of  the  Lutheran  doctrine  on  this  point, 
and  in  1535  he  went  to  Wittenberg,  to  consult  with  Lu- 
ther personally,  and  to  regain  for  Augsburg  the  celebra- 
ted Urbanus  Khegius  (q.  v.).  Huberinus  was  also  ac- 


tively engaged  in  introducing  the  Reformation  in  the 
Pfalz,  and  in  the  territory  of  Ilohenlohe,  In  1551  be 
returned  to  Augsburg  as  preacher,  but  as  be  alone  of  the 
Protestant  preachers  at  Augsburg  had  accepted  the  In- 
terim (q.  v.),  he  was  obliged  to  leave  the  city  in  1552, 
and  died  of  grief  at  Oehringen  Oct.  G,  1553.  Huberinus 
wrote  quite  extensively;  among  other  works,  we  have 
from  his  pen  'Frost licher  Sermon  v.  d.  Urstende  Christi 
(1525)  : — Schlussreden  v.  d.  reehten  Hand  Gottcs  n.  d.  Ge- 
icalt  Christi  (1529) ; etc.  See  Keim,  Schwab.  Ref.  Gesch. 
p.278,278;  Dbllinger, Reformation ,5i, 57G;  Herzog, Real- 
Kncyklopadie,  vi,  29G ; Thcol.  Unit.  Lex.  p.  372 ; Pierer, 
Unit.  Lex.  viii,  5G9.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hubert,  Leonard,  a Belgian  theologian,  flourish- 
ed about  the  year  1490.  He  was  at  lirst  a Carmelite 
monk,  afterwards  lie  became  bishop  of  Dario,  then  suf- 
fragan of  the  bishop  of  Liege,  ami  finally  “inquisitor” 
of  Liege.  He  wrote  quite  extensively.  His  most  cele- 
brated works  are  I)c  Immunitate  Ecclesiastica : — Ser- 
mons.— Iloefer,  Xoue.  Bioy.  Gin.  xxv,  351. 

Hubert,  Mathieu,  a distinguished  French  Ro- 
man Catholic,  born  at  Cliatillon  in  10 10,  was  a priest  of 
the  Congregation  of  the  Oratory,  and  one  of  the  most 
brilliant  preachers  ofliis  country  and  Church,  lie  died 
at  Paris  in  1717.  lie  published  Sermons  (Paris,  1725, 
G vols.  12mo). — Feller,  l)ict.  Hist,  ix,  19  sq. ; Honk,  Le- 
vies. Biog.  vi,  202;  Iloefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  355. 
(J.  1I.W.) 

Hubert  (IIubeiitus),  St.,  son  of  Bertrand,  duke  of 
Gnienno,  was  high  in  office  under  Tlicoderic,  king  of 
the  Franks,  having  been  a great  sportsman,  and,  accord- 
ing to  tradition,  converted  by  a stag  which  bore  a shin- 
ing cross  between  bis  antlers,  and  which  spoke,  entreat- 
ing him  to  turn  from  his  gay  life  anil  serve  the  Church, 
lie  at  once  entered  the  Church,  succeeded  his  icligious 
instructor,  Lambert  (Lampreclit),  as  bishop  of  Liittich 
in  708,  and  died  in  727.  Ilis  body  was  in  827  transfer- 
red to  the  Benedictine  convent  of  Andain,  in  the  Ar- 
dennes, which  thence  received  the  name  of  St.  lluber- 
tus,  and  it  is  here  he  is  said  to  have  had  the  above- 
mentioned  vision.  Tradition  also  holds  that  his  relics, 
by  virtue  of  the  golden  key  of  St.  Hubert,  which  lie  re- 
ceived from  St.  Peter,  can  cure  hydrophobia,  etc.  The 
3d  of  November  {St.  Hubert's  day ) marks  the  end  of  the 
bunting  season,  and  was  celebrated  by  great  hunts  (St. 
Hubert’s  chase). — Pierer,  Unit.  Lex.  viii,  570;  Tluolog. 
Unit.  Lex.  i,  372. 

Hubert,  Order  of  St.,  the  oldest  and  highest  or- 
der of  Bavaria,  was  founded  in  1444,  and  often  reformed, 
the  last  time  in  1808.  The  sign  of  the  order  is  a golden 
cross  on  a shield,  in  the  middle  of  which  is  the  picture 
of  St.IIubertus  (q.  v.).  It  is  borne  on  a golden  chain. 

Hubertine  Annalist,  an  anonymous  writer  of 
the  chronicles  of  St.  Hubert’s  monastery,  flourished 
about  tlie  middle  of  the  lltli  century.  In  his  Chron. 
St.  Hub.  Atidaginensis  the  style  of  Sallust  is  imitated. 
Bethmanu  (L.  C.)  and  Wattenbach  (W.)  issued  a new 
edition  of  it  in  Pertz,  Script,  viii,  565-630,  and  the  lol- 
lowmg  opiniun  of  the  author  is  expressed  by  them: 
“Satis  habeamus  nosse,  auctorcm  operis  fuissc  viruni 
inter  medias  res  versatiun,  acrem  judicio,  veritatis  stu- 
diosum : hoc  enim  totum  ojus  dicendi  genus,  hoc  simplex 
et  sinccra  rerum  narraiio  suadent.” — Herzog,  Real-Ln- 
cyklop.  vi,  296  sq. 

Hubmayer  or  Hubmeyer  (Hinnum),  Bai.tha- 
SAn,  one  of  the  most  learned  of  the  Anabaptists,  was 
born  at  Frieclberg,  near  Augsburg,  Bavaria,  in  1480. 
He  studied  theology  and  philosophy  at  Freiburg  with 
Eck,  and  in  1512  went  with  his  teacher  to  Ingolstadt, 
where  he  became  preacher  and  professor.  In  1516  be 
went  to  Regensburg,  where  his  ministrations  led  to  the 
expulsion  of  the  jews;  but,  having  openly  expressed 
sentiments  favorable  to  the  Reformation,  he  was  himself 
obliged  to  leave  Regensburg,  and  taught  school  for  some 
time  in  .Schaffhauscn.  In  1522  he  was  appointed  pas- 
tor to  Wald  shut,  where  lie  came  under  the  influence  of 


HUBY 


384 


HTJESCA 


Miinzer,  and  embraced  the  Anabaptist  views.  lie  wrote 
several  works  in  support  of  liis  new  views,  more  partic- 
ularly upon  baptism  and  the  sacraments;  but  the  ground 
which  he  took  against  his  early  coadjutor  and  intimate 
friend  Zwingle  provoked  a violent  reply  from  the  latter, 
and  caused  the  estrangement  of  the  two  friends.  Driv- 
en to  Zurich  in  1525  by  the  Austrian  persecution  at 
Waldsliut,  he  was  branded  as  a heretic  by  Zwingle,  and, 
after  suffering  imprisonment,  finally  tied  from  the  Aus- 
trian territory  (1526).  He  preached  a short  time  at 
Constance,  and  then  joumeyed  to  Moravia.  In  1528  he 
was  arrested,  probably  at  Briinn,  by  the  Austrian  au- 
thorities, and  was  burned  at  the  stake  in  Vienna  (March 
10).  His  wife,  who  steadfastly  adhered  to  Hubmayer’s 
views,  was  imprisoned  with  him,  and  suffered  martyr- 
dom by  drowning.  Iliibmayer  is  now  conceded  by  all 
historians  to  have  been  a man  of  very  exalted  charac- 
ter, and,  although  a fanatic  in  religion,  it  is  certain  that 
he  never  favored  the  extreme  views  of  some  of  the  Ana- 
baptists. See  Brown,  Memorials  of  Baptist  Martyrs,  p. 
106  sq. ; Baptist  Quarterly  Review,  1869  (July),  p.  338 : 
Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist,  iii,  203;  Ilerzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi, 
298  sq. ; Theol.  Univ . Lex.  i,  372.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Huby,  Vincent,  a French  Roman  Catholic  theolo- 
gian, was  born  at  Ilennebon,  in  the  Bretagne,  May  15, 
1G08.  lie  entered  the  order  of  the  Jesuits  in  1643,  and 
contributed  greatly  to  the  growth  of  this  order.  He 
died  March  24,  1693.  lie  wrote  a number  of  ascetic 
works,  which  have  been  edited  by  abbe  Lenoir  Duparc, 
and  published  under  the  title  (Euvres  spirituelles  (Paris, 
1753, 1761, 1769;  Lyons  and  Paris,  1827, 12mo);  also  by 
the  abbe  Baudrand  (Paris,  1767,  12mo).  See  Iloefer, 
Nouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  361. 

Hue,  Evariste  Regis,  a French  Roman  Catholic 
missionary,  was  bom  at  Toulouse  Aug.  1, 1813.  He  was 
educated  in  his  native  city,  and  entered  the  order  of  St. 
Lazarus,  and  in  1839  was  sent  as  missionary  to  China. 
After  about  three  years  of  missionary  labor  in  the  north- 
ern districts  of  China,  he  started  with  father  Gabet,  in 
the  fall  of  1844,  to  explore  the  wilds  of  Tartary  and 
christianize  Thibet,  according  to  the  directions  of  the 
apostolic  vicar  of  Mongolia.  Accompanied  by  a single 
Chinese  convert,  a young  lama,  they  reached  the  lama 
convent  of  Kounboun,  where  they  acquired  the  dialect 
of  Thibet.  Towards  the  end  of  September,  1845,  they 
joined  a caravan  from  China,  with  which  they  went  to 
Lhassa,  the  capital  of  Thibet.  Here  they  were  permit- 
ted to  remain  on  their  declaration  that  the)'  had  come 
only  for  the  purpose  of  preaching  the  religion  of  Christ. 
But  they  had  barely  settled  when  the  Chinese  ambas- 
sador commanded  them  to  leave  the  country.  They 
were  put  in  charge  of  a Chinese  escort,  and  carried  back 
a journey  of  nearly  2000  miles  to  the  extreme  south, 
and  arrived  in  October,  1846,  at  Macao.  Here  they 
were  subjected  to  a trial  by  the  Chinese  tribunals,  and 
■were  finally  permitted  to  return  to  the  station  from 
which  they  had  originally  started  on  this  journey. 
Hue,  whose  health  completely  failed  him,  returned  to 
Toulouse  in  1849,  and  gave  an  account  of  this  journey 
in  his  Souvenirs  (Tun  Voyaye  dans  la  Tartarie,  le  Thibet, 
et  la  Chine,  pendant  les  anne.es  1841, 1845,  et  184G  (Paris, 
1850,  2 vols.  8vo).  This  book  met  with  great  success, 
and  was  translated  into  various  languages  (English  by 
Hazlitt,  Lond.  1851,  2 vols.;  and  New  York,  1853).  It 
owed  its  great  success  partly  tolts  description  of  a coun- 
try heretofore  unknown,  and  also  to  its  lively  style.  In 
this  work  the  abbe  also  pointed  out  the  similarities  be- 
tween the  Buddhist  and  Roman  Catholic  ceremonials, 
and  for  it  was  punished  by  seeing  his  book  placed  on 
the  “ Index”  (comp.  Muller,  Chips  from  a German  Rror£- 
shop , i,  187,  note).  By  order  of  the  emperor,  he  then 
published  L' Empire  Chinois,  faisant  suite  a Vouvrage 
intitule  11  Souvenir  (run  Voyage  dans  la  Tartarie  et  le 
Thibet ” (Par.  1854,  2 vols.  8vo).  This  work  was  crown- 
ed by  the  Academy.  There  are  several  editions  of  it, 
and  it  was  also  translated  into  English  (N.  York,  1855, 


2 vols.  12mo).  His  last  work,  Le  Christianisme  en  Chine, 
en  Tartarie , et  au  Thibet  (Paris,  1857,  3 vols.  8vo,  with 
map),  contains  a vast  amount  of  historical  information  ; 
but  its  chief  topic  is  the  propagation  of  Romanism  in 
China.  Hue  thinks  that  “the  Gospel  will  soon  take  in 
Asia  the  place  now  occupied  by  the  philosophy  of  Con- 
fucius, the  traditions  of  the  Buddhists,  and  the  endless 
legends  of  the  Vedas;  finally,  that  Brahma,  Buddha, 
and  Mohammed  will  disappear  to  make  room  for  the 
true  God,”  etc.  Hue  died  in  Paris  March  81,  1860. 
See  Chambers,  Cyclopaedia,  v,  445 ; Hoefer,  Koar.  Biog. 
Gen.  xxv,  361 ; Methodist  Quarterly  Review,  Oct.  1855; 
Christian  Examiner,  January  to  May,  1858.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hucarius,  an  English  deacon  who  flourished  in  the 
11th  century.  He  w rote  one  hundred  and  eight  homi- 
lies, “which  were  extant  in  Leland’s  time  in  Canterbury 
College  (now  Christ  Church),  Oxford,  but  wdiich  appear 
to  be  no  longer  in  existence.  In  the  prologue  to  this 
book,  TIucarius  stated  his  name  and  country,  but  noth- 
ing more  is  known  of  him.”  He  is  said  to  have  made 
an  extract  from  the  penitential  work  of  archbishop  Eg- 
bert of  York,  of  the  8tli  century,  as  an  introduction  to 
the  homilies.  See  Wright,  Biog.  Brit.  Lit.  (Anglo-Sax. 
Period),  p.  426 ; I lerzog,  Real-Encyklop.  xxi,  C04 ; Theol. 
Univ.  Lex.  3, 372.  (J.II.W.) 

Hucbald,  also  called  Hlcbold,  IIugbald,  Urald, 
and  If  lb  Ann,  a celebrated  monk,  was  probably  bom 
about  S50,  and  was  educated  by  his  learned  relative  Milo 
(q.  v.)  in  the  monastery  of  St.  Amandus  in  Flanderu. 
After  Milo’s  death,  Hucbald  succeeded  him  as  teacher 
and  presiding  officer  of  the  school  of  this  monastery. 
About  893,  archbishop  Fulco,  of  Rheims,  called  Hucbald 
to  that  city,  to  preside  over  the  cathedral  school  there. 
He  died  in  930.  He  distinguished  himself  greatly  in 
music,  and  was  the  first  to  establish  the  laws  of  harmo- 
ny (diaphonia).  His  lives  of  some  of  the  saints  are  con- 
sidered valuable,  especially  Vita  S.  Lebuini,  Vita  Aide - 
gundis,  Vita  Rictrudis.  See  Asclibach,  Kirchen-Lex.  iii, 
342;  Ilerzog,  Real-Encyliopddie,  vi,  297  sq.  (J.II.W.) 

Hudson,  Joiix,  D.D.,  an  English  philologist  and 
theologian,  was  born  at  Wi dehope  in  1662,  and  was  edu- 
cated at  Queen’s  College,  Oxford.  He  obtained  the  de- 
gree of  Master  of  Arts  in  1684,  and  shortly  afterwards 
that  of  Doctor  of  Divinity.  In  1701  he  was  appointed 
librarian  of  the  Bodleian  library  at  Oxford,  and  died 
Nov.  27, 1719.  He  is  chiefly  known  on  account  of  his 
Geographies  Veteris  Scriptores  Greed  minor es.  etc.  (Ox- 
ford, 1698, 1703, 1712,3  vols.  8vo),  and  his  edition  of  Jo- 
sephus, entitled  Flavii  Josephi  Opera  (Oxf.  1720,2  vols. 
fol.),  which  appeared  shortly  after  his  death. — Hoefer, 
A 'our.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  372  sq. 

Huel,  Joseph  Nicolas,  a French  philosopher,  was 
born  at  Mattaincourt  June  17, 1690.  After  the  comple- 
tion cf  his  studies  at  Paris  he  took  orders,  and  was 
made  curate  of  Rameux.  He  is  said  (Barbier,  Diet,  des 
Anonymes)  to  be  the  author  of  Essai  philosojyhique  sur 
la  crainte  de  la  Mort,  and  of  Moyen  de  rendre  nos  relig- 
ieuses  utiles  et  de  nous  exempter  des  dots  quelles  exigent 
(1750),  in  which  important  reforms  of  the  religions 
houses  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  are  advocated. 
His  special  aim  wras  the  employment  of  the  inmates  of 
convents  in  instructing  the  youth  of  the  land,  instead  of 
spending  a life  of  idleness,  partly,  if  not  wholly,  at  the 
expense  of  the  state.  The  book  was  suppressed,  but  re- 
printed eleven  years  after,  without,  however,  awaken- 
ing any  general  interest  in  this  reformatory  movement. 
Iluel  died  atRomenx  Sept. 3, 1769. — Hoefer,  Nouv.  Bing. 
Gener.  xxv,  377  sq. ; Classe,  Remarques  bibliogj'aphiques 
sur  Huel,  in  the  Memoires  de  VA  cademie  de  Nancy  (1856), 
p.  251.  (J.II.W.) 

Huesca,  Council  of  ( Concilium  Oscense ),  a coun- 
cil held  at  Huesca,  in  Spain,  in  598,  of  which  only  two 
canons  are  extant.  One  orders  that  the  diocesan  syn- 
ods, composed  of  the  abbots,  priests,  and  deacons  of  the 
diocese,  be  held  annually,  in  which  the  bishop  shall 
exhort  his  clergy  upon  the  duties  of  frugality  and  con- 


IIUESCA 


385 


IIUFXAGEL 


tincnce;  the  other  that  the  bishop  shall  inform  himself 
whether  the  priests,  deacons,  and  subdeacons  observe  the 
law  of  continence  (tom.  v,  Cone.  1604). — Landon,  Man- 
ual of  Councils,  p.  266. 

Huesca,  Duuando  de,  a celebrated  member  of  the 
Albigenscs  (q.  v.),  flourished  in  the  first  half  of  the  13th 
century.  lie  at  length  yielded  to  Romish  influences, 
and  returned  to  that  Church,  in  which  he  founded  a re- 
ligious community  under  the  name  of  “ Poor  Catholics.” 
In  1207  he  went  to  Rome,  and  obtained  the  remission  of 
his  heresy  from  Innocent  III,  and  was  by  this  pope  de- 
clared the  superior  of  his  fraternity.  The  members  of 
this  community  lived  on  alms,  applied  themselves  to 
study  and  teaching,  kept  Lent  twice  a year,  and  wore  a 
habit  of  white  or  gray,  with  shoes  open  at  the  top,  but 
distinguished  by  some  particular  mark  from  those  of  the 
Poor  Men  of  Lyons  (Insabatati).  “The  new  order  spread 
so  rapidly  that  in  a few  years  it  had  numerous  convents 
both  south  and  north  of  the  Pyrenees.  But,  although 
they  professed  to  devote  themselves  to  the  conversion 
of  heretics,  and  Huesca  wrote  some  books  with  that 
view,  they  soon  incurred  the  suspicion  of  the  bishops, 
who  accused  them  of  favoring  the  Vaudois  (q.  v.),  and 
concealing  their  heretical  tenets  under  the  monastic 
garb.  They  had  sufficient  influence  to  maintain  them- 
selves for  some  time,  and  even  to  procure  letters  from 
his  holiness,  exhorting  the  bishops  to  endeavor  to  gain 
them  by  kindness  instead  of  alienating  their  minds  from 
the  Church  by  severe  treatment;  but  their  enemies  at 
last  prevailed,  and  within  a short  time  no  trace  of  their 
establishments  was  to  be  found.” — McCrie,  Reformation 
in  Spain,  p.  36  sq. ; Hist.  Gen.  de  Languedoc , iii,  147  sq. 
(J.II.W.) 

Huet,  Francois,  a distinguished  French  philoso- 
pher, was  born  Dec.  26,  1814,  at  Villeau,  France.  He 
was  for  a time  professor  at  the  University  of  Ghent,  and 
distinguished  himself  greatly  by  his  efforts  to  reform 
modern  philosophy  upon  the  principles  of  Bordas-De- 
moulin,  who  aimed  to  conciliate  all  the  political  and 
social  influences  of  the  Revolution  with  the  religious 
traditions  of  ancient  Gallicanism.  His  last  years  were 
spent  in  educating  the  young  prince  of  Servia.  He 
died  suddenly,  while  on  a visit  at  Paris,  July  1,  18G9. 
His  principal  works  are  Recite rches  stir  la  vie,  les  out- 
rages et  les  doctrines  de  Henri  de  Gaud  (1838,  8vo) : — 
Le  Cartesianisme  oil  la  veritable  renovation  des  sci- 
ences (1843,  2 vols.  8vo),  crowned  by  the  French  Acad- 
emy: — Le  Regne  social  du  Ckristianisme  (1853,  8vo)  : — 
Essais  sur  la  Re  forme  Catholique  (1856,  8vo),  written 
in  connection  with  Bordas-Demoulin : — La  science  de 
I'esprit , principes  de  philosophic  pure  et  appliquee  (2 
vols.  8vo,  18G4). — Vapercau,  Diet,  des  Contemporoins,  p. 
907 ; Broekhaus,  Unsere  Zeit,  5th  vear,  vol.  ii  (18G9), 
237. 

Huet  (IIuetius),  Pierre  Daniel,  a French  scholar, 
and  ecclesiastic,  was  born  at  Caen  Feb.  8, 1G30.  He  was 
educated  at  the  Jesuit  school  of  Caen,  and  was  original- 
ly intended  for  the  profession  of  the  law ; but  the  perusal 
of  the  “ Principles”  of  Des  Cartes  and  Bochart's  “ Sacred 
Geography’'  turned  his  attention  to  general  literature, 
and  he  became  a zealous  pupil  of  these  distinguished 
men.  In  1G52  he  accompanied  Bocliart  to  Sweden. 
Here  he  discovered  and  transcribed  the  MS.  of  Origen, 
which  subsequently  became  the  basis  of  his  celebrated 
edition  of  that  Church  father.  He  was  solicited  by  the 
queen  to  settle  in  her  dominions,  but  he  refused  the 
offer,  and  returned  to  France.  In  1G64  he  published  an 
essay  De  Interpretatione,  a ml  in  1G68  his  edition  oi'Ori- 
gen’s  Commentaria  in  Sac.  Script.  (Rouen,  2 vols.  fol. ; 
Cologne,  1G85, 3 vols.  fol.),  with  a learned  introduction, 
entitled  Origeniuna,  since  reprinted  in  the  Benedictine 
edition  of  Origen.  He  thus  acquired  so  great  a reputa- 
tion that  he  was  honored  with  the  degree  of  doctor  of 
law,  and  shortly  after  was  appointed  subtutor  to  the 
dauphin.  He  also  took  a leading  part  in  editing  the 
Delphini  edition  of  the  Latin  classics.  In  1G74  he  was 
IV— B n 


elected  a member  of  the  French  Academy;  and  having 
taken  orders  in  1G7G,  he  was  appointed  in  1678  to  the 
abbey  of  Aunay,  near  Caen.  In  1G85  he  was  made  bish- 
op of  Soissons,  but  he  never  entered  on  this  position, 
and  was  transferred  to  the  see  of  Avranches  in  1G92. 
Desirous  of  devoting  his  time  to  study,  he  resigned  his 
bishopric  in  1G99,  and  obtained  the  abbey  of  Fontenay, 
near  Caen.  In  1701  he  removed  to  Paris,  and  resided 
at  the  Jesuits’ house.  He  died  Jan.  2G,  1721.  Ilis  oth- 
er principal  works  are  Demonstratio  Evangelica  (Paris, 
1679,  often  reprinted).  “ This  work,  which  is  the  great 
monument  of  Iluet’s  literary  reputation,  was  the  result 
of  various  conversations  with  the  eminent  Rabbi  Manas- 
seh  ben-Isracl  at  Amsterdam.  It  begins  with  a set  of 
definitions  on  the  genuineness  of  books,  history,  proph- 
ecy, the  Messiah,  and  the  Christian  religion.  Then  fol- 
low two  postulates  and  four  axioms.  The  propositions 
occupy  the  rest  of  the  book,  and  in  the  discussion  of 
these  the  demonstration  consists”  (Kitto) : — De  la  situa- 
tion du  Paradis  Terrestre  (Par.  1691, 1 2mo) Commen- 
tarius  de  rebus  ad  auctorern  pertinentibus  (Amst.  1718, 
12nio),“his  autobiographical  memoirs — a model  of  pure 
Latinity,  as  well  as  the  most  interesting  record  of  the 
history  of  his  time.”  It  was  translated  hy  John  Aikin, 
M.D.  (London,  1810, 2 vols.  8vo)  :—Ceusura  rhilosophice 
Carte  statue  (Par.  1689, 1694, 12mo)  : — Qtuestiones  Alne- 
tanoe  de  Concordia  Rationis  et  Fidei  (Caen,  1G90).  The 
two  last-named  works  are  aimed  at  the  Cartesian  phi- 
losophy, to  which  Huet  had  adhered  in  his  earlier  days, 
and  against  which  he  appears  in  these  works  as  one  of 
the  most  formidable  opponents: — Traite  philosophiqtte 
de  laftiblcsse  de  V Esprit  Jlumain  (Amsterd.  1723,  8vo), 
“which,  according  to  Voltaire,  was  regarded  by  many 
as  a refutation  of  his  Demonstratio  Evangelica,  and  has 
caused  him  to  he  classed  among  sceptics.”  All  the  works 
of  Huet  were  published  in  a collected  form  in  1712,  and 
an  additional  volume,  entitled  Iluetiana,  in  the  year  fol- 
lowing his  deatli  (1722).  See  Hoefer,  Xour.  Biog.  Gen. 
xxv,  387  sq. ; English  Cyclopaidia,  s.  v. ; Quarterly  Rev. 
(Lond.).iv,  103  sq.;  Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  449  sq.;  Mo- 
rell,  Hist,  of  Mod.  Philosophy,  p.  195  sq.,  523.  ( J.I  I.W.) 

Huffel,  Johann  Jakob  Ludwig,  a German  divine, 
was.born  May  G,  1784  at  Gladenbaeh,  in  Hesse,  and  ed- 
ucated at  the  universities  of  Giessen  and  Marburg.  In 
1817  he  was  appointed  minister  at  Fried  berg,  in  1825 
senior  professor  in  the  theological  seminary  at  Ilerborn, 
and  in  1829  prelate  of  Baden  and  religious  counsellor  of 
the  duke  of  Baden.  He  died  Jufy  26, 185G.  Besides  a 
collection  of  sermons  (Giessen,  1817-29),  Iliiffel  publish- 
ed 1 1 "esen  u.  Jierttf  d.  evang.  Geistlichen  (ibid.  1821,  4th 
edit.  1843) : — Stuiulen  christl.  Andacht  (1844): — Brief e ii. 
d.  Unsterblichkeit  ( 2d  edit.  Karlsruhe,  1832).  The  same 
subject  is  still  further  treated  in  a later  work,  entitled 
Die  Unsterblichkeit.  avf’s  neue  beleuchtet  (2d  edit.  1838) : 
— DerPietismus  geschichtlich  beleuchtet  (Heidelb.  1849). 
— Theol.  Uniters.  Lex.  i,  372;  Pierer,  Uniters.  Lex.  viii, 
581. 

Hufnagel,  Wilhelm  Friedrich,  a German  theo- 
logian, was  born  at  Hall,  Swabia,  June  15, 1754,  and  ed- 
ucated at  the  universities  of  Altorf  and  Erlangen.  In 
1779  he  was  appointed  professor  extraordinary  of  phi- 
losophy at  Erlangen,  and  in  1782  he  was  transferred  to 
the  chair  of  theology  as  regular  professor.  In  1788  he 
received  the  pastorate  of  the  university  church,  and  was 
made  overseer  of  the  seminary  for  preachers.  In  1791 
he  removed  to  Erniikfort-on-the-Maiu  as  preacher  of 
one  of  the  oldest  churches  of  that  city.  He  died  Feb.  7, 
1830.  Hufnagel  was  distinguished  both  as  a preacher 
and  as  a theologian,  but  he  was  especially  at  home  in  the 
Shcmitic  languages.  His  publications,  aside  from  his 
Sermons  (1791-96),  are  Variorum  lectionum  e Bibliis  a 
Xisselio  curcitis  excerptarum  specimen  (1777) : — Salomos 
holies  Lied  gepriif,  iibersetzt  ?/,  erliiutert  (1784) : — -Xov. 
Biblioth.  theol.  (i,  1 782-3) : — Bearbeit.  d.  Sch  rifen  d.  A . T. 
nach  ihrem  Inhalt  u.Zweck  (1784),  in  which  he  took  a 
rationalistic  position : — Iliob  neu  iibtrs.  m.  Annu  (1781); 


HUG 


386 


HUGHES 


— Dissertcitio  rle  Psalnris  prophetias  Messian.  continenti- 
bus  (2  pts.  1784). — Biographic  Universelle , xxvii,  428  ; 
Kitto,  Bill.  Cyclop,  ii,  339  sq. ; Boring,  Gelehrt.  Theol. 
Deutschl.  i,  767  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hug,  Johann  Leoniiahd,  an  eminent  German  Ro- 
man Catholic  theologian,  was  born  at  Constance  June  1, 
1765,  ami  educated  at  Freiburg  University.  In  1789  he 
took  priest’s  orders,  and  in  1791  was  appointed  professor 
of  Old-Testament  exegesis  at  his  alma  mater.  In  1792 
the  New-Testament  exegesis  was  added  to  the  duties  of 
his  chair.  To  tit  himself  more  thoroughly  for  his  pro- 
fessional duties,  he  visited  the  great  libraries  and  uni- 
versities of  Central  Europe.  Though  a Roman  Catho- 
lic, he  was  too  well  acquainted  with  sacred  criticism, 
and,  like  the  celebrated  Dr.  Jahn,  too  impartial  to  be 
very  greatly  intluenced  in  his  views  as  a Biblical  schol- 
ar and  critic  by  his  ecclesiastical  connections.  He  wrote 
Erfoulung  d.  Buchstabenschrift  (Ulm,  1801)  : — Einleitung 
in  d.Schriften  d.  Xeuen  Testaments  (Stuttg.  1808,2  vols. ; 
4th  ed.  1847).  This  work,  in  which  he  attempts  to  vin- 
dicate and  sustain  the  genuineness  of  all  the  books  com- 
monly regarded  as  canonical,  has  been  translated  into 
French  and  English  ( Introduction  to  the  New  Testament, 
by  Wait,  Lond.  1827, 2 vols.  8vo;  far  better  by  Fosdick, 
Andover,  Mass.,  8vo),  and  is  considered  one  of  the  ablest 
works  of  the  kind.  Untersuchuiigen  iiber  den  Mythus  d. 
beriihmtesten  Vollcer  d.  alien  Welt  (Freib.  1812) : — Ueber 
d.  Ilohe  Lied  (ibid.  1813-1818): — De  conjugii  Christiani 
vinculo  indissolubili  comment,  exeget.  (ib.  1816),  in  which 
he  took  ground  against  civil  marriages : — Katechismus 
(ib.  1836) : — I)e  Pentateuchi  versione  A lexandi'ina  com- 
ment. (ib.  1818)  : — Gutachten  iiber  d.Leben  Jesu  von  D.  F. 
Strauss  (ib.  1840-1844, 2 vols.).  Hug  was  also  one  of 
the  editors,  with  Hirscher  (q.  v.)  and  others,  of  the  Frei- 
burger  Zeitsclirift  fur  Theologie  (Bonn,  1839-42).  See 
Maier,  Gediiclitnissrede  auf  Hug  (Freiburg,  1847) ; Real- 
Fncgklop.f.  d.  Kathol.  Deutschland , v,  518  sq. ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklopadie , xix,  658 ; Chambers,  Cyclopaedia,  v, 
449  sq. ; Kitto,  Bibl.  Cyclop,  ii,  340 ; Haag,  Hist.  d.  Dog- 
mas Chret.  i,  § 112;  Werner,  Geschichte  d.  Katholischen 
Theol.  p.  527  sq. ; Hocfer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Genet',  xxv,  400. 
(J.H.W.) 

Hugg,  Isaac,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister,  was 
born  in  Gloucester,  now  Camden  County,  New  Jersey, 
about  1814.  But  little  is  known  of  his  early  life.  He 
was  converted  in  1841,  licensed  to  preach  about  1844,  and 
joined  the  New  Jersey  Conference  in  1845.  Thencefor- 
ward he  filled  with  zeal  and  efficiency  the  several  posi- 
tions assigned  him,  being  in  many  places  eminently  use- 
ful. On  Rome  and  Wantage  Circuit,  on  Cedarville  charge 
and  elsewhere,  he  had  extensive  and  powerful  revivals 
of  religion,  and  founded  the  first  Methodist  society  at 
the  village  of  Cranberry,  N.  J.,  consisting  at  first  of  sev- 
en members,  which,  before  the  year  closed,  increased  to 
fifty.  About  1855,  while  laboring  on  Vernon  Circuit,  he 
had  his  hip  dislocated  by  a fall  from  his  carriage,  which 
caused  him  a great  deal  of  suffering,  and  in  the  spring 
of  1864,  being  pressed  by  increasing  affliction,  he  was 
obliged  to  take  a superannuated  relation,  and  settled  at 
Pointville,  in  Burlington  Comity.  Here  he  labored  as 
he  had  ability,  being  greatly  beloved  by  the  people.  He 
died  suddenly,  while  preparing  to  re-enter  the  active 
work  of  the  ministry,  April  5,  1866.  “Ilugg  was  em- 
phatically a good  man : the  poor  knew  well  how  to  prize 
him,  and  the  children  everywhere  loved  him.  He  was 
a good  preacher,  and,  when  health  permitted,  a faithful 
pastor.” — Neio  Jersey  Conf.  Minutes,  1867. 

Hugh.  See  Hugo. 


Christi  College,  Oxford.  He  became  fellow  of  Pembroke 
College,  then  lecturer  at  Allhallows,  London,  and  after- 
wards minister  of  Tavistock.  During  the  Rebellion  he 
obtained  the  living  of  St.  Andrew's,  Plymouth,  but  was 
ejected  for  nonconformity  in  1662.  He  died  in  1667. 
Hughes  was  a divine  of  good  natural  capacity  and  learn- 


ing, and  an  exact  critic  for  his  time.  His  principal 
works  are : An  A nalgtical  Exposition  of  the  whole  Book 
of  Genesis,  and  of  thefrst  twenty-three  Chapters  of  Ex- 
odus,wherein  the  various  readings  are  observed,  etc.  ( 1 (172, 
fol.)  : — A phorisms,  or  Select  Propositions  of  the  Scrip- 
tures,  shortly  determining  the  Doctrine  of  the  Sabbath 
(1670,  sm.  8vo). — Darling,  Cyclopaedia  Bibliographica,  i, 
1568. 

Hughes,  Jabez,  an  English  divine,  bom  in  1685, 
was  educated  at  Cambridge  University,  and  afterwards 
became  fellow  of  Jesus  College.  He  is  chiefly  known  as 
the  editor  of  Chrysostom’s  treatise  7r tpi  itpuicrvvqc,  or 
On  the  Priesthood  (Cambr.  1710, 8vo;  2d  edit,  in  Greek 
and  Latin,  with  notes  and  a preliminary  dissertation 
against  the  pretended  Rights  of  the  Church,  etc.,  1712, 
8vo).  He  died  in  1731 . — New  Gen.  Biog.  Diet,  vii,  27 6 ; 
Lond.  Gent.  Mug.  xlviii,  583, 673. 

Hughes,  J ohn,  an  English  divine,  was  born  in  1682, 
educated  at  Jesus  College,  Cambridge,  and  afterwards 
became  a fellow  of  the  university.  But  little  is  known 
of  his  life.  He  died  in  1710.  Among  his  works  we  find 
Dissertationes  in  qnibus  A uctoritas  Ecclesiastica,  quate- 
nns  a cirili  sit  distinct  a,  elefenditur  contra  Erastianos 
(Cambridge,  1710, 8vo ; and  in  English  by  Hilk. Bedford, 
Lond.  1711, 8 vo) : — St.  Ch rysostom's  Treat,  on  the  Priest- 
hood (Cambr.  1710,  8vo;  2d  edit.,  with  notes,  etc.,  1712, 
8vo).  See  Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  911;  Lowndes, 
Brit.  Liter,  p.  535  sq. 

Hughes,  John,  an  American  Roman  Catholic  prel- 
ate, was  born  in  Ireland  in  1798,  and  emigrated  to  this 
country  in  1817,  his  father  having  preceded  him  about 
two  years.  At  first  he  went  to  a florist  to  learn  the  art 
of  gardening,  but  a few  years  later  he  entered  the  Theo- 
logical Seminary  of  St.  Mary’s  at  Emmittsburgh,  Aid., 
teaching  also  at  the  same  time.  In  1825  he  was  ordain- 
ed priest  in  Philadelphia,  and  settled  over  a parish  of 
that  city.  In  1837  lie  was  appointed  coadjutor  of  bish- 
op Dubois,  of  New  York,  and  immediately  after  his  con- 
secration in  1838,  he  assumed  the  virtual  administration 
of  the  diocese,  but  lie  was  not  made  bishop  until  1842. 
In  1850  New  York  was  raised  to  the  dignity  of  an  arclii- 
episcopal  see,  and  archbishop  Hughes  went  to  Rome 
to  receive  the  pallium  at  the  hands  of  the  pope.  He 
died  January  3,  1864.  Even  before  his  elevation  to 
the  episcopacy  he  had  gained  among  his  coreligionists 
some  distinction  as  a champion  of  his  Church  by  a 
controversy,  in  1830  and  1834,  with  Dr.  John  Breckin- 
ridge, on  the  question,  “Is  the  Protestant  religion  the 
religion  of  Christ?”  Some  years  later  he  had  another 
celebrated  controversy  with  Dr.  Nicholas  Murray,  of 
Elizabeth,  who,  under  the  name  of  “ Kirwan,"  published 
a series  of  able  and  interesting  articles  against  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church.  “Both  controversies  increased  his  rep- 
utation among  his  coreligionists;  but  non-Catliolics  were 
not  struck  by  his  arguments  in  favor  of  Roman  Catholi- 
cism, and  he  failed  to  attract  anything  like  the  attention, 
or  produce  anything  like  the  impression,  which  writings 
of  real  ability,  such  as  those  of  Mdliler  in  Germany,  and 
of  Brownson  and  Hecker,  aTe  always  sure  to  command.” 
As  archbishop,  in  the  administration  of  the  property  of 
the  Church,  and  the  use  which  he  made  of  it  for  the 
spreading  of  his  Church,  he  displayed  a talent  rarely 
found.  An  immense  property  gradually  accumulated 
in  his  hands,  which  enabled  him  to  increase  largely  the 
number  of  Roman  Catholic  churches,  schools,  and  other 
denominational  institutions.  Thus,  in  1841,  he  opened 
the  Roman  Catholic  St.  John’s  College,  at  Fordliam,Ncw 
York,  to  which  he  afterwards  added  the  Theological 
Seminary  of  St.  Joseph.  The  archbishop  sustained  a 
celebrated  controversy  on  this  subject  with  Erastus 
Brooks,  editor  of  the  New  York  Express,  and  at  that 
time  a state  senator,  who  had  stated  in  an  address  in 
the  senate  chamber  that  the  archbishop  owned  property 
in  New  York  to  the  amount  of  f 5,000,000.  A long  dis- 
cussion took  place,  and  this  time  the  ability  with  which 
the  archbishop  defended  his  statements  and  his  position 


HUGHES 


387 


HUGO 


was  acknowledged  alike  by  Protestants  and  Romanists. 
But  be  opened  a breach  between  the  Romanists  and 
Protestants  by  his  unauthorized  demands  in  the  School 
Question,  to  the  effect  that  the  Common  Council  of  New 
York  City  should  designate  seven  of  the  public  schools 
as  Catholic  schools,  and  when  this  was  denied  both  by 
the  Common  Council  and  the  Legislature,  bishop  Hughes 
advised  the  Catholics  to  run,  at  the  next  political  cam- 
paign, an  independent  ticket.  He  defended  his  cause 
with  great  ability,  but  failed  to  convince  Protestants 
generally  of  the  fairness  of  the  demand  to  grant  to  the 
Roman  Catholic  community  an  exceptional  prerogative, 
which  was  neither  possessed  nor  claimed  by  any  Protes- 
tant body.  He  also  opposed  the  reading  of  the  Protes- 
tant version  of  the  Bible  in  the  common  school,  in  which 
he  was  not  quite  so  successful  as  in  his  other  efforts  in 
behalf  of  Romanism.  Archbishop  Hughes’s  political  in- 
fluence in  the  United  States  was  very  great,  and  he  was 
honored  by  all  sects  in  a manner  unknown  in  any  other 
Protestant  country.  Thus,  in  1847,  he  was  invited  by 
both  houses  of  Congress  to  deliver  a lecture  in  the  hall 
of  the  House  of  Representatives  in  Washington,  and  , 
after  the  outbreak  of  the  Rebellion  (1862)  he  was  even 
intrusted  with  a semi-official  mission  to  France.  As  a 
writer  archbishop  Hughes  has  done  but  little,  except  by 
the  discussions  above  alluded  to.  These  were  all  pub- 
lished in  book  form  (Phila.  183G,  8vo).  He  also  publish- 
ed a number  of  his  sermons  and  addresses.  Since  his 
decease  his  M works”  have  been  collected  by  Lawrence 
Kehoe  (N.Y.2  voIs.Svo;  2d ed.  1865). — X.  Y.  Tablet,  Jan. 
1864;  Methodist,  Jan. 9, 1864;  AiuAmer.  Cyclop.  1868,  p. 
429.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hughes,  Joseph,  D.D.,  an  eminent  Baptist  divine, 
was  born  in  London  Jan.  1, 1769.  In  1784  he  became  a 
member  of  the  Baptist  Church,  and  entered  the  Baptist 
College  at  Bristol,  where  he  remained  as  a student  till 
1787.  He  studied  also  three  years  at  Aberdeen,  where 
he  passed  M.A.  in  1790.  In  1791  he  became  classical 
tutor  in  the  Baptist  College ; 1792  to  1796  he  was  assist- 
ant minister  at  Broadmead  Chapel,  Bristol;  and  in  1796 
he  became  pastor  of  the  Baptist  Chapel,  Battersea. 
When  the  “Religious  Tract  Society”  was  formed1  in 
1799,  he  was  chosen  its  first  secretary,  and  he  retained 
this  office  until  his  death,  Oct.  12,  1833.  Ilis  industry 
in  official  work  was  enormous,  and  a great  part  of  the 
success  of  the  Tract  Society  is  due  to  his  labors.  He 
also  took  a large  part  in  the  formation  of  the  British 
and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  and  was  its  tirst  secretary,  re- 
taining the  office  until  his  death.  His  personal  history 
is  largely  that  of  this  great  organization.  See  Lcifchild, 
Memoir  of  the  Rer.J.  Huyhes  (Loud.  1834, 12mo) ; Jubi- 
lee Volume  of  the  Reliyious  Tract  Society;  Owen,  His- 
tory of  the  British  and  Foreiyn  Bible  Society;  Timpson, 
Bible  Triumphs  (1853, 12mo). 

Hugo,  a friar  of  the  order  of  the  Minimi , and  a doc- 
tor of  theology,  was  born  at  Prato,  near  Florence,  in  the 
latter  half  of  the  13th  century.  lie  was  a man  of  re- 
markable austerity,  and  imposed  upon  himself  the  most 
severe  mortifications.  He  died  in  Tartarv  after  the  year 
1312.  Among  his  works,  which  remain  in  MS.,  are  a 
letter  to  the  Minimi  of  Prato,  a treatise  l)e  Vita  Contem- 
platira,  and  Be  Perfectione  Statuum. — Iloefcr, Xouv.  Bi - 
oyr.  Generate,  xxv,  451. 

Hugo  of  Amiens,  or  of  Rouex,  a distinguished  Ro- 
man Catholic  divine,  was  born  at  Amiens,  France,  to- 
wards the  close  of  the  11th  century,  and  was  educated 
at  Laon  under  the  celebrated  Anselm.  He  entered  the 
Benedictine  monastery  of  Clugnv,  and  became  prior  of 
the  monastery  of  Limoges  in  1113.  On  account  of  his 
great  learning  and  uncommon  talent  he  was  transferred 
as  prior  to  the  monastery  at  Lewes,  in  England,  and  in 
1125  was  appointed  abbot  of  Reading  Abbey  by  Henry 

I,  the  founder.  In  1 129  Hugo  was  elected  archbishop  of 
Rouen,  over  which  see  he  presided  until  his  death,  Nov. 

II,  1164.  He  was  quite  prominent  in  the  history  of 
celibacy  during  his  day.  While  archbishop  of  Rouen, 


he  sought  to  convert  an  obscure  sect  in  Brittanv.  in  all 
likelihood  a branch  of  the  Petrobrussians,  whose  doc- 
trines were  “a  protest  against  the  overwhelming  saeer- 
! dotalism  of  the  period,  by  an  elaborate  denunciation  of 
their  tenets,  among  which  he  enumerates  promiscuous 
j licentiousness  and  disregard  of  clerical  celibacy.”  In- 
deed, Hugo  was  distinguished  among  his  contempora- 
: ries  not  only  as  a theologian,  but  also  as  a statesman. 

“It  was  he  who,  in  1139,  at  the  Council  of  Winchester, 
J saved  king  Stephen  from  excommunication  by  the  Eng- 
lish bishops.”  He  wrote  Dialoyi  de  Sum  mo  Bonn  Libri 
t'ii  (published  by  Martime  in  his  Thesaur.  Anecdotum, 
v,  895),  a work  of  especial  interest  both  to  the  theolo- 
gian and  the  philosopher  on  account  of  the  views  which 
it  sets  forth  on  moral  philosophy : — l)e  Iheresibus,  print- 
oil  by  D’Achery  as  an  appendix  to  the  works  of  (iuibert 
de  Nogent,  is  a work  levelled  against  the  heretics  of  his 
day,  and  affording  valuable  materials  on  the  history  of 
the  Church  in  the  12th  century:— De  Fide  Catholicu, 
containing  an  explication  of  the  Apostles’  Creed  and  the 
Lord's  Prayer,  published  by  Martene  and  Durand  in 
their  Thesaurus  Anecdotum,  vol.  v,  and  in  their  I "ete- 
rum  Scnpforum  Collectio,  vol.  ix.  Sec  Schrbekh,  Kirch- 
enyesch.  xxvii,  409  sq. ; Lea,  Hist,  of  Sacerdotal  Celiba- 
cy, ]).  372  sq. ; Iloefer,  None.  Bioy.  Gener.  xxv,  439  sq. ; 
Gorton,  Bioy.  Diet.  s.  v.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hugo  of  Angouleme  flourished  in  the  10th  centu- 
ry. As  soon  as  he  had  become  the  incumbent  of  the 
see  of  Angouleme  (March  21,973)  he  sought  also  to  as- 
sume the  temporal  government  over  his  diocese,  and 
became  entangled  in  controversies  with  count  Arnold, 
the  prince  of  that  country,  against  whom  he  even  waged 
war.  It  is  thought  that  Hugo  finally  withdrew  from 
the  bishopric,  retired  to  the  abbey  of  St.  Cibard.  and 
died  in  obscurity  in  990.  He  is  said  to  have  left  sev- 
eral works,  but  they  have  not  yet  come  to  light.— /list. 
Lift,  de  la  France,  vol.  viii;  Iloefcr,  Xour.  Bioy.  Gene- 
rale,  xxv,  428. 

Hugo  of  Besax^on  was  born  towards  the  close  of 
the  10th  century,  and  was  appointed  archbishop  of  Be- 
sanijon,  as  successor  of  archbishop  Gaucher  of  Sal  ins,  in 
1031.  Immediately  on  assuming  the  charge  of  the  see 
he  dismissed  the  canons  of  St.  Anatole  of  Salins,  and 
gave  this  church  to  the  monks  of  St. Benigne  of  Dijon; 
but  he  afterwards  repented  of  the  change,  and  reinstated 
I the  chapter  of  St.  Anatole  in  1048.  He  is  said  to  have 
been  an  industrious  prelate,  and  to  have  enjoyed  the 
confidence  of  his  pope  and  of  his  emperor.  Under  the 
emperor  Ilenrj'  III  he  was  arch-chaneellor.  lie  also 
assisted  at  the  coronation  of  king  Philip  I of  France, 
lie  died  July  27,  1066. — Dunod  de  Carnage,  JJistoire  de 
Veylise  de  Besauyon,  i,  29  sq. ; Hocfer,  Xour.  Bioy.  Gen. 
xxv,  429. 

Hugo  of  Breteuil  was  born  near  the  opening  of 
the  11th  century,  and  was  educated  as  a theologian  at 
the  school  in  Chartres,  lie  was  made  bishop  of  Lan- 
gres  by  king  Robert  some  time  in  the  first  months  of 
1031.  * Conducting  himself  in  a manner  unworthy  of 
his  high  position  in  the  Church,  he  was  finally  accused 
of  adultery  and  homicide,  and  other  even  more  atro- 
cious crimes,  and  was  brought  to  trial  before  a council 
at  Rheims.  At  first  be  braved  the  accusations,  and 
sought  to  defend  himself;  but,  finding  that  the  proof 
against  him  was  impossible  of  contradiction,  he  finally 
lied,  and  was  punished  with  excommunication.  To  ex- 
piate his  crimes  he  went  on  foot  to  Rome,  where  he  pro- 
cured an  audience  with  pope  Leo  IX,  and  obtained  par- 
don. On  bis  return  home  he  died  at  Biterne,  France, 
March  16,  1051.  He  is  the  author  of  an  interesting  let- 
ter On  the  Errors  of  Berenyer  (published  as  an  appendix 
to  the  works  of  Lanfranc). — Hist,  l.itt.  de  la  France,  vii, 
438  ; Hoefcr,  Xouv.  Bioy.  Gen.  xxv,  428  sq. 

Hugo  of  Castro -Novo  ( Xeiccastle ).  an  Lnglish 
theologian,  nourished,  according  to  Wadding  (.-1  mud. 
Min.  iii),  about  1310.  He  belonged  to  the  order  of  the 
Minimi,  and  was  an  ardent  defender  of  the  philosophy 


iiugo 


388 


HUGO 


of  Duns  Scotus.  lie  is  said  to  have  been  the  author  of 
De  Victoria  Christi  contra  Antichristian  (printed  in 
1471).  But  his  most  important  work  is  De  Laudibus 
B.  Maria ; (published  1G97, 1G98,  1704).  It  comprises 
twelve  books,  the  first  of  which  is  a simple  paraphrase 
of  the  angelical  salutation  (Luke  i,  2G  sq.).  The  third 
book  treats  of  the  carnal  prerogatives  of  Mary,  the  fourth 
of  her  virtues,  the  sixth  of  the  names  by  which  she  is 
known,  the  seventh  and  eighth  of  the  celestial  and  ter- 
restrial objects  to  which  she  is  ordinarily  compared,  etc. 
— Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biorj.  Generate,  xxv,  450  sq. 

Hugo  of  Cua.aipflelri,  a French  prelate,  was  born 
in  the  early  part  of  the  12th  century.  Of  his  early  life 
but  little  is  known.  In  1151  he  was  appointed  chancel- 
lor of  France,  and  in  1159  he  was  elected  bishop  of  Sois- 
sons,  retaining,  however,  his  position  in  the  state,  from 
both  of  which,  for  unknown  reasons,  he  was  deposed  in 
1171.  He  died  Sept.  4, 1175. — Hist.  Litt.de  la  France , 
xiii,  53G ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  445. 

Hugo  of  Citeaux,  a French  Roman  Catholic  theo- 
logian who  flourished  in  the  12th  century,  was  a disciple 
of  St.  Bernard  and  abbe  of  Trois  Fontaines.  In  1 150  he 
was  made  bishop  of  Ostie  and  cardinal  by  pope  Eugene 
III.  lie  died  in  1158.  Hugo  wrote  a narrative  of  the 
death  of  pope  Eugene  III,  and  several  other  works.  He 
as  a prelate  of  great  merit  and  piety.  See  Encyclop. 
Theologique  (Diet,  des  Cardinaux),  xxxi,  1083. 

Hugo  of  Clugny.  See  Clfgny. 

Hugo  Falcandus.  See  Falcandus. 

Hugo  of  Fakfa.  See  Farfa. 

Hugo  ok  F leery  or  de  St.  Marie  (oftentimes  call- 
ed St.  Benoit  sur  Loire),  a celebrated  Benedictine  monk 
of  the  abbey  of  Fleury,  on  the  Loire,  flourished  about 
the  middle  of  the  11th  century.  His  Chronicon,  a his- 
tory of  religion  and  of  the  Church,  prepared  after  the 
manner  of  his  day,  viz.  consisting  of  notices  of  popes, 
martyrs,  and  other  saints.  Church  fathers,  persecutions, 
heresies,  etc.,  a work  of  great  celebrity,  was  probably 
never  brought  down  by  him  later  than  855,  and  the 
continuation  from  that  date  to  1034  was  in  all  likelihood 
prepared  by  other  Benedictine  monks  (Munster,  1G38, 
4to).  He  wrote  also  De  la  Puissance  Royale,  et  de  la 
Dignite  Sacerdotale  (found  in  the  Miscellanea  of  Baluze). 
— Sclirockh,  Kirchengesch.  xxiv,  501  sq. ; Hook,  Eccles. 
Biog.x i,  20G.  (J.H.W.) 

Hugo  de  Fouilloi,  a distinguished  French  theolo- 
gian, canon  of  St.  Augustine,  was  born  in  tire  early  part 
of  the  12th  century.  In  1149  he  was  chosen  abbe  by 
the  regular  canons  of  St.  Denis  of  Rheims,  but  lie  de- 
clined this  high  office.  On  the  decease  of  the  person 
selected  in  his  stead  in  1153,  however,  he  consented  to 
accept  the  honor.  He  abdicated  in  1174,  and  his  death 
is  supposed  to  have  occurred  shortly  after.  He  is  said 
to  be.  the  author  of  a number  of  works,  but  as  they  were 
not  written  under  his  own  name,  and  as  some  were 
even  printed  as  the  productions  of  others,  it  is  difficult 
now  to  determine  them.  He  is  generally  believed  to 
be  the  author  of  De  Claustro  Aninue,  a work  often  at- 
tributed to  Hugo  St.  Victor : — De  A rca  Xoe  mystica  De- 
script  in  : — lie  A rca  Xoe  moralis  interpretatio : — De  van- 
itate  rerum  mnndanamm,  etc. — Ouclin,  Script.  Eccles.; 
llistoire  Lift,  de  la  France , xiii,  492  sq. ; Hoefer,  Xouv. 
Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  442  sq. 

Hugo  of  Fea vigny,  a French  Church  historian, 
was  born  at  Verdun  about  the  year  10G5.  While  yet  a 
youth  he  entered  the  convent  of  St.  Vitonius  at  Verdun, 
where  he  studied  under  the  abbot  Rodolph.  In  conse- 
quence of  some  persecutions,  Hugo  and  the  other  mem- 
bers of  his  order  removed  to  Flavigny.  In  1097  he  was 
"elected  abbot  of  his  convent,  and  in  1111  he  exchanged 
this  abbey  for  that  of  St.Vanncs.  According  to  some, 
he  died  there  as  early  as  11 15,  but  according  to  others  he 
left  this  convent  for  St.  Dijon  about  1115,  and  the  time 
of  his  death  is  much  later.  Hugo  wrote  a chronicle  ex- 
tending from  the  birth  of  Christ  to  the  year  1102,  di- 


vided into  two  parts,  under  the  title  Chronicon  Virdun* 
ense,  a quibusdam  dictum  Flaviniacense  (in  Pli.  Labbei 
Bibliotheca  Xova,  tom.  i).  The  first  part  of  this  work, 
which  closes  with  the  10th  century,  is  trifling  and  erro- 
neous, but  the  second  part  contains  much  important  in- 
formation on  the  ecclesiastical  history  of  France  in  the 
11th  and  12th  centuries. — Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate, 
xxv,  433;  Herzog,  Real-Encykloqiddie,  vi,  308. 

Hugo  of  Frazan  or  Tkasan,  tenth  abbe  of  Clug- 
ny  (q.  v.),  who  flourished  in  the  12tli  century,  became 
abbe  in  1157  or  1158.  Taking  sides  with  the  anti-pope 
Victor  IV,  he  was  excommunicated  by  pope  Alexander 
III,  and  driven  from  the  abbey.  He  died  after  the  year 
1 1GG.  Several  works  are  attributed  to  him,  but  without 
good  reason. — 1 list.  lift,  de  la  France,  xiii,  571  sq. ; Iloe- 
fer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  442. 

Hugo  (St.)  of  Grenoble  was  born  at  Chatcauneuf, 
in  the  Dauphiny,  and  became  a priest  at  Valence.  In 
1 080  he  was  appointed  bishop  of  Grenoble,  but  he  only 
accepted  the  position  after  considerable  hesitancy,  and 
even  left  the  bishopric  some  time  after,  and  retired  to 
the  abbey  of  Chaise-Dieu,  in  Clermont,  as  a Benedictine 
monk.  By, order  of  pope  Gregory  VII,  however,  he  re- 
turned again  to  Grenoble.  He  died  there  April  1,1139. 
He  was  declared  saint  two  years  after  by  pope  Innocent 
II.  Hugo  was  a very  pious  man,  and  especially  rigid  in 
the  enforcement  of  the  vow  of  celibacy.  During  fifty- 
tliree  years,  spent  in  the  active  duties  of  his  bishopric, 
it  is  said  he  never  saw  the  face  of  a woman  except  that 
of  one  aged  mendicant.  See  Real-Encyhlcp.f.  d.  Kathol. 
Deutsehl.v,  530  sq. ; Lea , History  of  Sacerdotal  Celibacy, 
p.  238. 

Hugo  of  Langres.  See  Berengarius. 

Hugo  of  Lincoln,  was  bom  in  1 140  at  Gratianopo- 
lis,  Burgundy,  and  was  first  a regular  canon,  and  later  a 
Carthusian  monk.  When  Henry  II  founded  the  Car- 
thusian monastery  at  With  am,  in  Somersetshire,  he  in- 
vited Hugo  to  accept  the  priorship  of  this  new  foun- 
dation. After  many  entreaties  by  Reginal,  bishop  of 
Bath,  Hugo  consented.  He  was  also  made  bishop  of 
Lincoln  by  Henry  II.  He  died  in  Nov.  1200,  and  was 
canonized  at  Rome  in  1221.  See  Hoefer,  A 'ouv.  Biogr. 
Generate,  xxv,  448;  Wheatly,  Book  of  Common  Prayer, 
p.  75 ; Lea,  1 list,  of  Sacerdot.  Celib.  p.  29G.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hugo,  archbishop  of  Lyons,  was  bom  about  the  mid- 
dle of  the  11th  century,  and  was  one  of  the  most  distin- 
guished supporters  of  the  Romish  Church,  in  her  efforts 
to  exalt  the  papacy,  during  the  last  half  of  the  11th  cen- 
tury, when  Gregory  VII  and  the  emperor  Henry  were 
arrayed  against  each  other.  He  was  the  papal  legate 
(under  pope  Urban  II)  at  the  Council  of  Autun,  A.D. 
1094,  who  pronounced  the  ban  on  king  Philip  of  France 
for  the  repudiation  of  his  lawful  wife  Bertha.  Hugo 
died  Oct.  7, 1 10G.  His  only  works  are  his  letteis.  which, 
according  to  the  Hist.  Lit.  de  la  France  (ix,  p.  303),  are 
very  valuable  to  the  historian  of  the  12th  century.  See 
Neander,  Ch.  Hist,  iv,  123 : Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv, 
429  sq. 

Hugo  of  Macon,  a French  ecclesiastic,  was  bom 
about  the  close  of  the  11th  century,  and  was  educated 
by  his  cousin  St.  Bernard.  lie  was  appointed  abbe  of 
Pontigny,  as  the  representative  of  which  he  appeared 
in  1128  at  the  Council  of  Troyes.  In  August,  113G,  he 
was  elected  bishop  of  Auxerre,  and  was  consecrated  the 
January  following.  He  was  an  attendant  at  the  Coun- 
cil of  Sens,  which  condemned  the  doctrines  of  Abelard 
(q.v.)  ; also  in  1148  at  the  Council  of  Rheims,  where  he 
combated  the  opinions  of  Gilbert  de  la  Porree.  He 
stood  high  in  the  estimate  of  popes  and  princes.  After 
his  death,  Oct.  10,  1151,  the  manner  in  which  he  dis- 
posed of  the  immense  fortimes  which  he  bad  amassed 
by  great  avaricionsness,  and  which,  instead  of  being  be- 
queathed for  distribution  among  the  poor  of  his  diocese, 
were  given  to  his  nephew,  greatly  annoyed  his  friends, 
and  his  cousin,  the  pious  St.  Bernard,  finally  had  the  will 


HUGO 


389 


HUGO 


annulled  by  pope  Eugene  III.  He  is  said  to  have  writ- 
ten several  books,  but  there  are  no  writings  extant  which 
can  be  definitely  claimed  as  his. — IIisi.Litt.de  la  France, 
xii,  408 ; Iloefer,  Xouv.  Bioy.  Gen.  xxv,  438. 

Hugo  of  Moxceaux,  a distinguished  French  di- 
vine, was  bom  in  the  early  part  ol‘  the  12th  century, 
lie  was  first  monk  at  Vezelav,  then  abbe  of  St. Germain 
(11G2).  He  was  consecrated  by  pope  Alexander  III, 
April  21,  1163.  The  pretensions  of  bishop  Maurice,  of 
Paris,  to  assist  in  the  ceremony  were  energetically  op- 
posed by  lingo,  and  this  occasioned  a controversy,  of 
which  a summary  was  published  by  Hugo.  It  forms  a 
very  interesting  document  of  his  time  (printed  in  the 
collection  of  Andre  Duchesne,  vol.  iv).  In  the  same  year 
(May  19)  lingo  assisted  at  the  Council  of  Tours,  where 
be  continued  the  controversy  with  Maurice,  which  was 
finally  brought  before  the  pope,  who  decided  in  favor  of 
the  monk.  In  1165  (Aug.  22)  Hugo  was  one  of  the  ab- 
bes  who  presided  at  the  baptism  of  the  royal  infant, 
later  Philip  Augustus.  He  was  also  about  this  time  in- 
trusted with  various  ecclesiastical  offices,  and  in  1179  he 
attended  the  Council  of  Latran.  He  died  Mar.  27, 1182. 
— Iloefer,  Xouv.  Biogr.  Generale,  xxv,  446;  Ilist.  Lift, 
de  la  France,  xiii,  615;  Gallia  Christiana,  vii,  col.  442. 
(J.  11.  W.) 

Hugo  of  Noxant,  an  English  divine,  was  born  at 
Nonant,  in  Normandy,  in  the  first  half  of  the  12th  cen- 
tury, and  was  educated ‘at  Oxford  University.  Abont 
1 173  he  became  archdeacon  of  Lisieux, and,  towards  1185, 
bishop  of  Coventry.  I Ic  was  the  Romish  legate  to  Eng- 
land during  the  administration  of  the  bishops  of  Dur- 
ham and  of  Ely,  in  the  absence  of  Richard  to  the  East, 
and  his  infiuence  caused  the  removal  of  these  bishops  in 
1191.  Only  three  years  later  he  was  himself  driven 
from  his  see,  but  he  was  permitted  in  1195  to  return 
again,  on  paying  a fine  of  5000  marks  silver  to  the  royal 
treasury.  He  died  in  April,  1198,  during  a voyage,  or, 
more  probably,  while  in  exile  a second  time.  The  re- 
cital of  the  disgrace  of  the  bishop  of  Ely  was  written 
down  by  Hugo,  and  has  been  published  by  Roger  of 
Hoveden  ( Script . Rer.  Ang.  p.  702).  It  is  a very  violent 
pamphlet. — Hist.  Litt.de  la  France,  xv;  Iloefer,  Xouv. 
Biog.  Generale,  xxv,  447. 

Hugo  pe  Pagaxis.  See  Kxigiit  Templars. 

Hugo  of  Poitiers,  a monk  of  Vezelav,  of  whose 
life  but  little  is  known,  flourished  in  the  12th  century. 
He  wrote  a history  of  the  monastery  of  Vezelav,  which 
has  been  published  by  D’Achery  in  his  Spicilegium,  iii. 
He  is  also  supposed  by  some  to  be  the  author  of  the 
Chronique  des  Comtes  de  Xertrs,  inserted  by  Labbe  in 
his  Xou relle  Bibliotheque  des  Manuscrits.  He  died  about 
1 16 1. — Hist.  Lift,  de  la  France,  vii, 668  sq. ; Hoefer, Xouv. 
Biogr.  Gen.  xxv,  439. 

Hugo  of  Porto  was  born  abont  the  middle  of  the 
11th  century.  He  was  archdeacon  of  Compostelle  until 
the  bishopric  of  Porto  was  established  in  1114,  when 
Hugo  was  elected  to  this  see.  He  was  a member  of 
several  Church  councils  in  1122-25.  lie  died  about 
1125.  Of  his  writings,  the  Historg  of  the  Church  of 
Compostelle,  which  has  never  been  printed,  is  of  especial 
value  for  the  history  of  his  diocese. — Histoire  Litt.  de  la  I 
France,  xi,  1 15 ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generale,  xxv,  435.  i 
(J.H.W.) 

Hugo  of  Riieimr,  son  of  count  Herbert  of  Verman- 
dois,  flourished  in  the  10th  century.  He  was  elected  , 
archbishop  of  Rheims  when  not  quite  five  years  old, 
and  installed  as  head  of  the  Church  in  that  city  by  the 
power  of  his  father;  but  only  six  years  later  Hugo  was 
succeeded  by  the  monk  Arte  Id  or  Artaud.  Herbert, 
dissatisfied  with  this  appointment,  made  Art  old  prison- 
er, and  called  a synod  at  Soissons,  which  confirmed  his 
son  Hugo  in  the  archbishopric.  After  Herbert’s  death 
Artold  was  liberated,  and  great  contentions  arose  be- 
tween the  two  incumbents  of  the  same  see.  In  947  a 
synod  was  held  at  Verdun ; but  this,  as  well  as  another 


held  at  Mousson  in  948,  proved  of  no  avail,  as  Hugo 
had  secured  for  himself  the  intercession  of  the  pope,  who 
decreed  that  Hugo  should  hold  the  archbishopric.  The 
friends  of  Artold  finally  resolved  to  hold  a national  syn- 
od, when  Hugo  was  deposed  and  Artold  installed.  8c e 
Schrbckh,  Kirchengesch.  xxii,  252  sq. 

Hugo  of  Riremoxt,  a French  theologian  of  the 
12th  century,  of  whose  life  but  little  is  known,  was  the 
author  of  Fpistola  de  Xatura  et  Origine  Aniline  (in 
Martene,  Anecdota,  i,  368),  which  is  based  on  the  real 
and  supposed  works  of  Augustine.  Of  Aristotle’s  treat- 
ise On  the  Foul  lie  seems  to  have  been  unaware. — Hoe- 
fer, Xouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  447 ; Hist.  Litt.  de  la  France, 
xi,  113. 

Hugo  of  Sancto  Caro  {Hugh  of  St.  Cher),  some- 
times also  called  Hugo  pe  S.Tiieoporico,  an  eminent 
French  theologian,  was  born  at  St.  Cher  (whence  his 
surname),  a suburb  of  Vienne,  France,  about  1200.  He 
studied  theology  and  canon  law  at  Paris,  and  in  1224 
joined  the  Dominicans  in  the  convent  of  St.  Jacques 
(whence  he  is  also  called  Hugo  pe  St.  Jacopo),  and  in 
1227  was  made  “provincial”  of  this  order  in  France, 
lie  also  taught  theology  in  Paris,  and  was  connected 
with  several  scientific  undertakings.  He  was  one  of  the 
commissioners  who  examined  and  condemned  the  In- 
trodoctorius  in  Evang.  astern,  of  the  Franciscan  Gerhard, 
which  developed  the  fanatical  doctrines  of  Alb.  Joachim 
of  Flore  (q.  v.),  and  was  active  in  the  controversy  of 
William  de  St.  Amour  with  the  mendicant  orders.  In 
1245  he  was  made  cardinal  by  Innocent  IV,  and  died  at 
Orvieto  in  1263.  The  reputation  of  Hugo,  however, 
rests  chiefly  upon  his  Biblical  studies  and  writings.  In 
1236  he  executed  a revision  of  the  text  of  the  Latin 
Vulgate,  an  immense  labor  for  that  age.  A copy  of  this 
work,  preserved  in  the  Nuremberg  Library,  has  this  ti- 
tle : “ Liber  de  correct ionibus  novis  super  Biblia,  ad  scien- 
dum quee  sit  verior  et  communior  litera,  Reverendisimi 
patris  c't  domini  D.  Ilugonis,  sacne  Rom.  eccl.  presby- 
teri  cardiualis,  sacne  theologia?  professoris  et  de  online 
priedicatorum.”  His  principal  published  works  are  Pos- 
tillce  in  universu  Biblia,  a sort  of  brief  commentary,  pre- 
pared, however,  without  sufficient  acquaintance  with 
the  original  languages  of  the  P»il)le  (Basil.  1487,  etc.) : — 
Speculum  ecclesue  (Lyons,  1554).  But  his  most  impor- 
tant service  to  Biblical  literature  was  bis  conception  of 
the  plan  of  a Concordance,  which  lie  executed,  with  the 
.aid  of  many  monks  of  his  order,  in  his  Sacrorvm  Bill. 
Coneordantice  (latest  cd.  Avignon,  1786.  2 vols.  4 to).  It 
is  an  alphabetical  index  of  all  the  words  in  the  Vulgate, 
and  has  formed  the  model  of  all  Concordances  to  the 
Bible.  It  had  the  effect  also  of  bringing  tlie  division 
into  chapters  and  verses  into  general  use.  See  Quctif 
et  Ecliard,  Scnptores  ordinis  pnedicatorum,  i,  194  sq. ; 
Hist.  Litter,  de  la  France,  xix,  38  sq. ; Richard  Simon. 
Xouvelles  observations  sur  le  texte  et  les  versions  du  X. 
Test,  ii,  128;  Herzog,  Real- Enc ij Hop.  vol.  vi ; Iloefer, 
Xouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  450 ; Kit  to,  Bill.  Cyclop,  ii,  340. 

Hugo  of  St.  Victor,  said  to  have  been  count  of 
Blankenburg,  was  born  at  Ein,  near  Ypres,  about  1097, 
and  educated  in  the  convent  of  Hammorslebon,  near 
Halberstadt.  When  eighteen  years  of  age  he  went  to 
Paris,  and  joined  the  Augustines  of  St.Victor.  He  next 
became  professor  *of  theology,  and  his  success  as  a teach- 
er and  writer  was  very  brilliant,  lie  died  at  Paris  about 
1141.  Hugo  was  the  most  spiritual  theologian  of  bis 
time,  and  the  precursor  of  the  later  Mystics.  lie  rec- 
ommended the  use  of  the  Bible  for  private  devotion,  and 
urged  also  its  study  on  priests  and  teachers,  lie  fol- 
lowed the  theology  of  Augustine  so  strictly,  and  ex- 
pounded it  so  successfully,  that  he  was  called  Augustine 
the  Second,  and  the  Mouth  of  A ugustine.  “In  Hugo  we 
see  the  representative  of  a school  distinguished  in  the 
12th  century  for  its  hearty  religious  spirit,  and  its  tend- 
ency to  practical  reform  ; a school  which,  though  it  uni- 
ted more  or  less  the  mystico-contemplative  with  the 
speculative  element,  yet  constantly  kept  up  the  contest 


HUGO 


390 


HUGO 


with  the  predominant  dialectic  tendency  of  the  times. 
If,  in  Abelard,  we  see  those  spiritual  tendencies  which 
had  been  harmoniously  united  by  Anselm,  brought  into 
conflict  with  each  other,  we  see  them  once  more  recon- 
ciled in  Hugo,  but  with  this  difference,  that  in  him  the 
dialectical  element  is  not  so  strong  as  it  was  in  Anselm. 
In  his  doctrinal  investigations,  he  often  has  reference  to, 
and  contends  against  Abelard,  though  without  mention- 
ing liis  name.  The  empirical  department  of  knowledge 
generally,  and  in  theology  the  study  of  the  older  Church 
teachers,  and  of  the.  Bible,  was  made  specially  promi- 
nent by  Hugo,  in  opposition  to  one-sided  speculation  and 
innovating  influences,  llis  principle  was,  ‘ Study  every- 
thing; thou  wilt  afterwards  see  that  nothing  is  super- 
fluous.’ Adopting  the  definition  of  faith  in  the  eleventh 
chapter  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  he  remarks, 
‘Faith  is  called  the  substance  of  things  invisible,  be- 
cause that  which,  as  yet,  is  not  an  object  of  open  vision, 
is  by  faith,  in  a certain  sense,  made  present  to  the  soul 
—actually  dwells  in  it.  Nor  is  there  anything  else 
whereby  the  things  of  God  could  be  demonstrated,  since 
they  are  higher  than  all  others ; nothing  resembles  them 
which  could  serve  us  as  a bridge  to  that  higher  knowl- 
edge.7 Hence  he  declared  that,  in  regard  to  the  essence 
of  true  faith,  much  more  depends  on  the  degree  of  devo- 
tion than  on  the  extent  of  knowledge;  for  divine  grace 
does  not  look  at  the  amount  of  knowledge  united  with 
faith,  but  at  the  degree  of  devotion  with  which  that 
which  constitutes  the  object  of  faith  is  loved”  (compare 
Trench,  Sac.  Lat.  Poetry,  p.  54).  In  the  struggle  then 
raging  between  scholasticism  (Bernhard)  and  mysticism 
(Abelard),  Hugo  inclined  rather  to  mysticism;  but,  in- 
stead of  favoring  exclusively  the  one,  he  aimed  rather 
at  combining  the  two  antagonistic  doctrines,  and  giving 
birth  to  a new  system,  containing  the  better  elements 
of  both.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  we  oftentimes  find 
one  or  the  other  of  these  doctrines  quite  promiscuously 
advocated  in  his  writings.  A tolerably  accurate  idea  of 
Hugo’s  own  doctrines,  and  of  the  peculiarities  of  his  sys- 
tem, may  be  obtained  by  a study  of  his  Summa  senten- 
tiarum.  In  man,  says  he,  there  is  a threefold  eye:  the 
bodily  eye,  for  visible  things;  the  eve  of  reason,  which 
enables  man  to  sec  his  own  soul  and  its  faculties;  and 
the  eye  of  contemplation , to  view  divine  things.  But 
by  sin  the  eye  of  contemplation  has  become  blinded,  so 
that  faith,  which  has  the  advantage  of  realizing  with- 
out seeing,  comes  in  its  stead,  and  is  the  organ  of  the 
knowledge  of  the  superterrestrial;  while  the  eye  of  rea- 
son is  not  so  greatly  obscured  as  to  excuse  man’s  ig- 
norance of  divine  things.  Thus  he  acutely  distinguishes 
between  what  is  possible  to  be  known  cx  ratione,  the , 
“necessaria”  (natural  laws),  and  what  secundum  ration- 
em , the  “ probabilia,”  as  well  as  what  lies  supra  ration- 
em,  the  “ mirabilia”  (divine  things),  and  what  must  be 
acknowledged  to  be  contra  rationem,  the  “ incredibilia.” 
Subject  to  knowledge  are  the  necessaria,  subject  to  faith 
the  probabilia  and  mirabilia.  Faith,  he  continues,  is 
supported  by  reason,  reason  is  perfected  by  faith.  The 
certainty  of  faith  is  superior  to  opinion,  but  not  to 
knowledge ; still  scire  quod  ipsum  sit  must  precede  faith ; 
after  faith  comes  intelligere  quid  ipsum  sit.  Purity  of 
heart  and  prayer  lead  upon  the  steps  of  cogitatio,  medi- 
tatio,  and  contemplatio,  gradually  to  this  higher  intui- 
tion, which  affords  a real  foretaste  of  heaven  itself  (com- 
pare Ebrard,  Hdbueh.  d.  Kirch,  u.  Doymen-Gesch.  ii,  220). 
In  his  l)e  sacramentis  Jidci,  treating  of  redemption,  he 
regards  man  as  the  end  of  creation,  and  God  as  the  end 
of  man.  In  the  doctrine  of  the  attributes  of  God,  he 
considers,  like  Abelard,  power,  wisdom,  and  goodness  as 
primary,  but  contradicts  Abelard  in  his  view  that  what 
God  does  is  the  limit  of  his  omnipotence.  With  An- 
selm, he  seeks  to  exhibit  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  by 
analogy  with  the  human  spirit.  Spirit,  wisdom,  and 
love,  says  he,  correspond  to  the  three  divine  persons; 
but,  while  human  wisdom  and  affection  are  liable  to 
changes,  the  divine  are  not.  On  the  doctrine  of  the  will, 
he  modified  Augustine  slightly.  He  distinguishes,  in  i 


order  to  harmonize  the  freedom  of  man  with  the  om- 
nipotence of  God,  between  willing  per  se,  and  the  fixing 
of  the  will  upon  something  definite;  making  the  former 
free,  and  the  latter  bound  by  the  moral  government  of 
God.  God  is  consequently  not  auctor  ruendi,  but  only 
ordinator  incedendi.  Hugo  was  also  the  first  to  advance 
distinctly  the  idea  of  gratia  svperaddita.  Grace  is  both 
creatrix  and  salcatrix;  of  these,  the  creatrix  involved 
the  power  to  be  free  from  sin,  but  positively  to  do  good 
required  gratia  apposita.  After  the  fall, gratia  operans 
had  to  be  added  to  gratia  co-opcrans.  The  essence  of 
original  sin  lie  holds  to  consist  in  ignorance  and  concu- 
piscence. To  the  doctrine  of  the  sacraments  Hugo  was 
the  first  of  the  scholastics  to  give  definiteness.  Unsat- 
isfied with  Augustine's  definition  of  them  as  saerce  rei 
signum,  he  says,  in  his  Summa,  that  the  sacrament  is  vis- 
ibilis  forma  inrisibilis  gratae,  in  co  collatee.  In  his  Ue 
sacramentis fidei  he  defines  it  still  more  distinctly  as  “a 
corporeal,  actually  perceptible  element,  which, by  virtue 
of  the  divine  institution,  exhibits,  and  really  contains, 
symbolically’,  invisible  grace.”  lie  also  distinguishes 
three  classes  of  sacraments:  the  first,  those  on  which 
salvation  especially’  depends  (Baptism  and  the  Lord’s 
Supper) ; the  second,  those  which  are  not  necessary  to 
salvation,  but  yet  useful  for  sanctification — the  number 
of  these  is  indefinite;  and, thirdly’,  that  which  serves  to 
qualify  for  the  administration  of  the  other  sacraments — 
priestly  ordination.  To  the  first  class,  Baptism  and  the 
Lord’s  Supper,  he  gave  not  only’  especial  prominence, 
but  he  laid  particular  stress  on  their  careful  observance. 
Of  course  he  believed  in  transubstantiation,  calling  the 
mode  of  the  change  transitio,  but  he  considered  it  a 
means  of  communion  with  Christ.  The  best  edition  of 
his  collected  works  is  the  first — Opera  Omnia,  stud.Badii 
Ascensii  et  J.  Parvi  (Paris,  152G,  3 vols.  fol.).  The  later 
editions  are  Venice,  1538;  Cologne,  1017;  Rouen,  1648: 
all  in  3 vols.  Fee  Xeander,  Ch.  History,  iv,  401  sq. ; Du- 
pin,  Eccles.  Writers,  12tli  century’;  Gudin,  Comment,  de 
Script.  Eccles.  t.  ii,  p.  1 138 ; Schmid,  JJysticisimis  d.  Mit- 
telalters  (Jena,  1824) ; Liebner,  Monographic  fiber  Hugo 
(Leips.  1832).  A number  of  the  writings  attributed  to 
Hugo  are  probably’  not  his,  and  others  of  his  real  writ- 
ings remain  unedited.  The  task  of  selecting  what  are 
and  what  are  not  libs  genuine  works  has  been  under- 
taken by  M.Ilaurean,  of  Paris,  who  will  doubtless  do  it 
full  justice.  Sec  lloefer,  Nour.  Biog.  Generale,  xxv,  43G 
sq. ; Herzog,  Real- Ency Hop.  vi,  308  sq. ; Maurice,  Medi- 
cs ml  Philos,  p.  144  sq. ; Tiedemann,  Geist.  der  speculat. 
Philos,  iv,  289  sq. ; Tennemann,  Gesch.  d.  Philos,  viii,  20G 
sq. ; Schrdckh,  Kirchengesch.  xxiv,  p.  392  sq. ; xxix,  274 
sq.;  Ilagenbach,  Hist,  of  Doctrines  (see  Index)  ; Xcan- 
der,  Hist,  of  Christian  Dogmas,  ii,  4G7  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hugo  Aicelin  dr  Bili.oji,  or  Hugo  Skquin,  was 
born  at  Billom,  in  Auvergne,  about  1 230,  was  educated 
at  the  college  of  the  Church  of  St.  Sirene,  and  after- 
wards entered  the  monastery’  at  Clermont.  He  preach- 
ed at  various  places  with  great  success,  and  was  award- 
ed, on  account  of  his  superior  scholarship,  the  doctorsliip 
of  divinity7  by’  the  University  of  Paris,  where  he  was  af- 
terwards professor  of  theology.  In  1285  Hugo  went  to 
Rome,  and  was  appointed  by’  pope  Honorius  IV  master 
of  his  palace.  Nicolas  IV  made  him  cardinal,  May’  15, 
1288.  He  died  at  Rome  Dec.  29,  1297.  He  is  said  to 
have  written  works  on  the  beatife  vision,  an  apologetic- 
al  work  against  the  corrupters  of  the  doctrines  of  St. 
Thomas,  On  Jeremiah,  a volume  of  Sermons,  etc.  See 
Echard,  Scriptores  ordinis  Preedicatorum,  i,  450  sq. ; 
Encyclop.  Theolog.  xxxi,  1091  sq. ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog. 
Generale,  xxv,  450. 

Hmgo,  Etherien,  a Tuscan  theologian  of  the  12th 
centurv,  contemporary’  of  pope  Alexander  III,  to  whom 
he  dedicated  the  principal  of  his  works,  lived  some  time 
at  the  court  of  Constantinople,  and  was  highly’  esteemed 
by  the  emperor  Comnenus.  On  the  occasion  of  bis  con- 
ference with  the  Greek  theologians  he  wrote  his  treatise 
De  JJceresibus  quas  Greed  in  Latinos  devolvunt , also 


HUGO 


391 


HUGUENOTS 


known  under  the  title  of  De  Immortali  Deo,  libri  hi.  It 
is  published  in  the  Lyons  edition  of  the  Library  of  the 
Fathers , vol.  xxii,  col.  1198.  The  same  collection  con- 
tains also  a treatise  of  Hugo  on  the  State  of  the  Soul 
separated  from  the  />Wy.— Dupin,  Bill,  des  Auteurs  ce- 
des. (lu  douzieme  siede ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv, 
448. 

Hugo  Grotius.  See  Grotius. 

Hugo,  Herman,  a distinguished  Jesuit,  born  at 
Brussels  in  1588,  wrote  several  historical  and  theological 
works.  lie  is  celebrated  on  account  of  his  Pia  desideria 
emblemed ibus  illustrata  (1624,  8vo;  1629,  l2mo;  transla- 
ted into  English  as  Divine  A ddresses,  by  Edmund  Ark- 
water.  3d  edit,  corrected,  Loud.  1702,  8vo).  lie  died  of 
the  pi  ague  at  Bheinbcrg  Sept.  10,  1629.  See  Darling, 
Cyclop.  Bibl.  ii,  1572 ; Xouv. Diet.  1 list . p.336. 

Hugociano,  Francois,  a distinguished  Homan 
Catholic  prelate,  according  to  some  was  an  Englishman 
by  birth,  but  according  to  others  was  born  at  Pisa  in  the 
lirst  half  of  the  14th  century.  By  an  acquaintance 
which  he  formed  with  pope  Boniface  IX  he  was  able  to 
procure,  the  archbishopric  of  Bordeaux  in  1389,  and  some 
time  after  he  was  also  made  Boniface’s  legate  to  Gas- 
cogne, the  kingdoms  of  Navarre,  Castile,  Leon,  and  Ar- 
agon. In  1405  he  was  made  cardinal  by  pope  Innocent 
VII,  and  was  employed  by  the  papal  chair  in  several 
theological  controversies,  lie  was  especially  prominent 
at  the  Council  of  Pisa  in  1409.  lie  died  at  Florence 
Aug.  14,  1412.  See  Encydop,  Thiol,  xxxi,  1082  sq.  (J. 
II.  W.) 

Hugonet,  Philibert,  a distinguished  Homan 
Catholic  prelate  who  flourished  in  the  loth  century, 
was  educated  at  the  universities  of  Dijon,  Turin,  and 
Padua,  and  succeeded  his  uncle  in  the  bishopric  of  Ma- 
con. He  was  made  cardinal  in  1473  by  pope  Sixtus  IV, 
and  died  at  Home  in  1484.  See  Encydop.  Theol.  xxxi, 
1083 ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  426. 

Huguceio  of  Pisa.  See  Glossatores. 

Huguenots,  originally  a nickname  applied  to  the 
partisans  of  the  Information  in  France.  The  origin  of 
this  word  is  rather  obscure.  Some  derive  it  from  11  u- 
guon , a word  applied  in  Touraine  to  persons  who  walk 
at  night  in  the  street — the  early  French  Protestants, 
like  the  early  Christians,  having  chosen  that  time  for 
their  religions  assemblies.  Others  derive  it  from  a 
faulty  pronunciation  of  the  German  Eidgenossen,  signi- 
fying confederates,  on  account  of  the  connection  between 
the  French  Protestants  and  the  Swiss  confederates,  who 
maintained  themselves  against  the  tyrannical  attempts 
of  Charles  III,  duke  of  Savoy,  and  were  called  Eignots. 
Others  derive  it  from  the  part  which  the  French  Prot- 
estants took  in  sustaining  Henry  IV,  the  descendant  of 
Ungues  Capet,  to  the  throne  of  France  against  the 
Guises.  Another  derivation  is  from  the  subterraneous 
vaults  in  which  they  held  their  assemblies,  outside  the 
wralls  of  Tours,  near  a gate  called  Fourgon,  an  alteration 
from  feu  11  u „ This  last  derivation  is  strengthened 

by  tbe  fact  that  they  were  originally  called  Huguenots 
of  Tours.”  Still  others  derive  it  from  the  name  of  a 
very  small  coin  of  the  time  of  Ilugues,  to  denote  the 
vile  condition  of  the  Protestants.  Thus  the  distin- 
guished German  philologist,  Prof.  Malm,  of  Berlin,  in 
his  Efymologische  Untcrsuchwngen  avf  deni.  Gebiete  der 
Iiomanischen  Sprachen,  gives  no  less  than  fifteen  sup- 
posed derivations,  but  inclines  himself  to  the  opinion 
that  the  word  Huguenot  was  originally  applied  as  a 
nickname  to  the  early  French  Protestants,  and  that  it 
was  derived  from  llnghnes,  the  name  of  some  heretic  or 
conspirator,  and  was  formed  from  it  by  the  addition  of 
the  French  diminutive  ending  o(,  like  Jacot,  Margot, 
Jeannot,  etc. 

At  the  very  commencement  of  the  Reformation  in 
Germany,  adherents  of  the  cause  of  the  Reformers 
sprang  up  in  France,  then  under  the  government  of 
Francis  I.  Under  the  powerful  support  which  these 


French  Reformers  found  in  Margaret  of  Navarre,  sister 
of  the  king,  as  early  as  1523  Melchior  AVolmar,  a Swiss, 
preached  the  Gospel  in  the  south  of  France,  and  Lu- 
theran societies,  at  this  time  calling  themselves  Gospel- 
lers (q.  v.),  were  organized  bv  Gerhard  Roussel  and  Ja- 
cob Lefiivre.  See  Faber.  The  circulation  of  Lefevre's 
New  Testament  by  the  thousand  throughout  France  hv 
peddlers  from  Switzerland,  where  copies  were  printed 
by  Farel  (q.  v.),  still  further  increased  the  number  of 
the  Reformers,  and  dually  led  to  the  promulgation  of  an 
ordinance  by  the  Sorbonue,  obtained  from  the  king,  for 
the  suppression  of  printing  (Feb.  26, 1535).  In  1533,  Cal- 
vin (q.  v.),  who  had  been  invited  to  Paris  by  the  rector 
of  the  University,  began  to  preach  the  new  doctrines  in 
that  and  other  cities,  and  hv  his  efforts  greatly  further- 
ed the  success  of  the  French  Protestants,  who  now  began 
to  be  known  by  the  name  of  Huguenots.  Indeed,  so 
numerous  had  they  become,  that  to  exterminate,  if  pos- 
sible, b\*  force,  their  doctrine  before  it  should  spread  fur- 
ther, the  Church  resorted,  by  consent  of  the  king,  in 
1545,  to  a massacre  in  the  Vaudois  of  Provence,  which 
was  accompanied  by  horrors  impossible  to  describe. 
The  new-view  religion,  however,  made  rapid  progress 
in  spite  of  all  persecutions,  and  men  of  rank,  of  learning, 
and  of  arms  ranged  themselves  in  its  defence.  ‘The 
heads  of  the  house  of  Bourbon.  Antoine,  duke  of  Vcn- 
dome,  and  Louis,  prince  of  Conde,  declared  themselves 
in  its  favor.  The  former  became  the  husband  of  the 
celebrated  Jeanne  d’Albret,  queen  of  Navarre,  daughter 
of  the  Protestant  Margaret  of  Valois,  and  the  latter  be- 
came the  recognised  leader  of  the  Huguenots.  The 
head  of  the  Colignv  family  took  the  same  side.  The 
Montmorencies  were  divided;  the  Constable  halting  be- 
tween tbe  two  opinions,  waiting  to  see  which  should 
prove  the  stronger,  while  others  of  the  family  openly 
sided  with  the  Reformed.  Indeed,  it  seemed  at  one 
time  as  if  France  were  on  the  point  of  turning  Protest- 
ant.” The  Huguenots  had  become  strong  enough  to 
hold  a synod  as  early  as  1559,  and  in  1561  cardii.al  De 
Sainte-Croix,  becoming  alarmed,  wrote  the  pope,  “The 
kingdom  is  already  half  Huguenot,”  while  the  Venetian 
ambassador  Mielieli  reported  to  his  government  that  no 
province  in  France  was  free  from  Protestants.  The 
Roman  Catholic  clergy,  in  influence  at  court,  now  de- 
cided to  drive  Ilenry  11  to  a more  determined  opposi- 
tion against  the  Huguenots  by  assuring  him  that  his  life 
was  threatened.  Cardinal  de  Lorraine,  the  head  of  the 
J Church  in  France,  declared  to  him  that,  “ if  the  secular 
arm  failed  in  its  duty,  all  the  malcontents  would  throw 
themselves  into  this  detestable  sect.  They  would  lirst 
destroy  the  ecclesiastical  power,  and  the  royal  power 
would  come  next.”  The  immediate  consequence  was  a 
royal  edict,  in  1559,  declaring  the  crime  of  heresy  pun- 
I ishable  by  death,  and  forbidding  the  judges  to  remit  or 
mitigate  the  penalty.  The  lires  of  persecution,  w hich 
had  for  a time  been  smouldering,  again  burst  forth. 
The  provincial  Parliaments,  at  the  instigation  of  the 
< iuises,  established  C'hambres  or  dentes  for  the  punish- 
ment of  Protestants;  and  executions,  confiscations,  and 
banishments  became  the  order  of  the  day  throughout 
France.  The  death  of  llenrv  IT,  and  the  accession  of 
Francis  II,  did  not  modify  in  the  least  the  existing  state 
of  affairs.  More  violent  measures,  even,  were  taken, 
none  of  which  succeeded  in  eradicating  the  great  eye- 
sore of  the  adherents  of  the  prevalent  Church,  whose 
office  had  now  become  that  of  the  executioner  and  hang- 
man. The  Protestants  could  endure  these  persecutions 
no  longer,  and  resolved  on  open  revolt.  Protected  by 
Antoine  de  Bourbon, king  of  Navarre,  by  the  Condos,  the 
Colignvs,  and  also  by  such  Romanists  as  were  political- 
I ly  opposed  to  the  ( iuises,  the  Huguenots  formed  a strong 
| opposition.  Having  chosen  Louis  de  Conde  for  their 
' leader,  they  decided.  Feb.  1,  1560,  at  Nantes,  to  address 
a petition  to  the  king,  and.  in  case  it  were  rejected,  to 
put  down  the  Guises  by  force  of  arms,  capture  the  king, 
and  make  the  prince  of  Conde  governor  of  the  kingdom. 
! The  carrying  out  of  this  plan  was  intrusted  to  Georges 


HUGUENOTS 


392 


HUGUENOTS 


de  Barri  de  la  Renaiulie,  a nobleman  from  Perigord. 
The  conspiracy,  however,  was  discovered  through  the 
treachery  of  count  Louis  de  Sancerre,  and  the  court  was 
removed  to  Amboise.  Some  of  the  Huguenots  followed 
it  in  arms,  whence  the  whole  affair  became  known  as 
the  conspiracy  of  Amboise.  They  were  defeated,  how- 
ever, by  the  forces  of  the  Guises,  and  1200  of  them, 
taken  as  prisoners,  were  executed.  The  Guises  now 
aimed  at  the  introduction  of  the  Inquisition  in  France ; 
but,  at  the  instigation  of  the  noble  chancellor  I’Hopital 
[see  Hopital],  the  king  gave  to  Parliament,  by  the 
edict  of  Romorantin,  in  Slay,  15G0,  the  right  of  deciding 
in  matters  of  faith,  leaving,  however,  to  the  bishops  the 
privilege  of  discovering  and  pointing  out  heretics. 

During  the  minority  of  Charles  IX,  who  ascended  the 
throne  Dec.  o,  15G0,  a boy  only  ten  years  old,  the  strife 
between  the  parties  which  divided  the  court  became 
more  violent,  as  the  chancellor  de  l’Hopital,  on  the  as- 
sembling of  Parliament  in  Dec.  1560,  had  exhorted  men 
of  all  parties  “ to  rally  round  the  young  king ; and,  while 
condemning  the  odious  punishments  which  had  recent- 
ly been  inflicted  on  persons  of  the  Reformed  faith,  an- 
nounced the  intended  holding  of  a national  council,  and 
expressed  the  desire  that  henceforward  France  should 
recognise  neither  Huguenots  nor  papists,  but  only 
Frenchmen.”  Catharine  de  Medici s,  the  regent,  who  re- 
garded it  to  her  interest  to  balance  the  power  of  the  two 
parties  so  as  to  govern  both  move  easily,  seconded  the 
view's  of  the  chancellor.  The  two  princes  of  Conde, 
who  had  been  prisoners  at  Lyons  after  the  affair  of  Am- 
boise, were  liberated.  Antoine  de  Navarre  was  made 
constable  of  France,  and  a new  edict  was  published  in 
Jidy,  1561,  which  granted  full  forgiveness  to  the  Hugue- 
nots, who,  it  v'as  stated,  were  no  longer  to  be  designated 
by  such  nicknames.  Finally,  a conference  was  appoint- 
ed (Sept.  3)  for  both  parties  to  meet  with  a view  to  con- 
ciliation. This  conference  is  famous  in  history  as  the 
Conference  of  Poissv  (q.  v.).  The  Cardinal  de  Lorraine 
led  the  Roman  Catholic  theologians,  but  was  signally 
defeated,  especially  by  the  arguments  of  Theodore  Beza. 
The  Huguenots,  emboldened  by  their  success,  now 
adopted  the  C’alvinistic  Confession, -and,  thus  united, rose 
more  strongly  against  Romanism,  counting  among  their 
friends  Catharine  herself,  who  had  been  forced  to  their 
side  by  the  machinations  of  the  Guises.  January  17, 
15G'2,a  royal  edict  was  issued,  guaranteeing  to  the  Prot- 
estants liberty  of  worship.  The  Guises  and  their  parti- 
sans now  became  exasperated.  On  Christmas  day,  1562, 
about  3000  Protestants  of  Yassy,  in  Champagne,  met  foy 
divine  worship,  and  to  celebrate  the  sacrament  accord- 
ing to  the  practices  of  their  Church.  Yassy  was  one  of 
the  possessions  of  the  Guises. .and  the  bishop  of  Chalons 
complaining  to  Antoinette  de  Bourbon,  an  ardent  Roman 
Catholic,  she  threatened  the  Huguenots,  if  they  persist- 
ed in  their  proceedings,  with  the  vengeance  of  her  son, 
the  duke  of  Guise.  Undismayed  by  this  threat,  the 
Protestants  of  Yassy  continued  to  meet  publicly,  and 
listen  to  their  preachers,  believing  themselves  to  be  un- 
der the  protection  of  the  law',  according  to  the  terms  of 
the  royal  edict.  On  March  1, 1563,  while  the  Hugue- 
nots of  Yassy,  to  the  number  of  about  1200,  were  again 
assembled  for  divine  worship  in  a barn  — as  they  had 
shortly  before  been  deprived  of  their  churches  by  Cath- 
arine. who  made  this  concession  to  Antoine  de  Navarre, 
in  order  to  secure  her  support,  still  leaving  them,  how- 
ever, free  to  assemble  in  the  suburbs  and  in  the  country, 
on  the  estates  of  noblemen — they  were  attacked  by  a 
band  of  armed  men,  led  by  the  duke  of  Guise,  and  mas- 
sacred. For  an  hour  they  fired,  hacked,  and  stabbed 
amongst  them,  the  duke  coolly  watching  the  carnage. 
Sixty  persons  of  both  sexes  were  left  dead  on  the  spot, 
more  than  twTo  hundred  were  severely  wounded,  and  the 
rest  contrived  to  escape.  After  the  massacre  the  duke 
sent  for  the  local  judge,  and  severely  reprimanded  him 
for  having  permitted  the  Huguenots  of  Yassy  to  meet. 
The  judge  intrenched  himself  behind  the  edict  of  the 
king,  The  duke’s  eye  flashed  u'ith  rage,  and,  striking 


the  hilt  of  his  swrord  w ith  his  hand,  he  said,  “ The  sharp 
edge  of  this  will  soon  cut  your  edict  to  pieces”  (Smiles, 
Huguenots,  p.  48 ; comp.  Davila,  Histoire  des  Gverres  ci~ 
riles  de  France,  ii,  379).  This  massacre  wTas  the  match 
applied  to  the  charge  ready  to  explode.  It  was  the 
signal  to  Catholic  France  to  rise  in  mass  against  the 
heretics,  and  to  Protestant  France  a warning  for  their 
lives.  An  army  of  Roman  Catholics  gathered,  at  the 
head  of  which  wrere  the  duke  of  Guise,  the  constable  of 
Montmorency,  and  marshal  St.  Andre,  who  seized  the 
king  and  the  regent  under  pretence  of  providing  for 
their  safety,  proclaimed  the  Huguenots,  who  had  at  the 
same  time  been  gathering  at  Orleans  under  Conde,  reb- 
els, and  sent  an  army  against  them.  Thus  began  the 
first  war  of  the  Huguenots.  September  11,  1562,  the 
royal  troops,  after  much  bloodshed,  took  Rouen,  and  De- 
cember 19  a battle  was  fought  at  Dreux,  in  which,  after 
a terrible  struggle,  the  Protestants  yielded.  One  of  the 
leaders  of  the  Romanists,  marshal  St.  Andre,  fell  in  bat- 
tle ; another,  the  constable  of  Montmorency,  was  made 
prisoner  by  the  Huguenots,  and  the  leader  of  the  latter 
in  turn  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  Guises.  An  exchange 
of  prisoners,  however,  wras  immediately  effected.  The 
duke  of  Guise  now  marched  against  Orleans,  but  w'as 
assassinated  in  his  own  camp,  Feb.  18,  1563,  before  he 
had  been  able  to  attack  this  great  stronghold  of  the 
Protestants.  The  queen  mother,  realizing  tire  loss  which, 
the  Romanists,  to  whose  side  she  had  been  forced  by 
policy,  had  sustained  in  the  death  of  the  duke  of  Guise, 
and  informed  of  a threatened  invasion  of  the  English  on 
the  coast  of  Normandy,  concluded  the  peace  of  Amboise, 
March  19,  by  which  the  Protestants  wrcre  again  granted 
the  privileges  of  the  edict  of  1562,  with  several  addi- 
tions. The  armies  now  united,  and  made  common  cause 
against  the  English.  As  soon,  however,  as  Catharine 
thought  herself  able  to  dispense  with  the  aid  of  the  Hu- 
guenots, whom  she  both  feared  and  hated,  and  on  whose 
destruction  she  was  resolved,  she  again  restricted  the 
privileges  conceded  them  in  the  edict  of  Amboise,  form- 
ed a close  alliance  with  Spain  for  the  extirpation  of 
heresy,  and  made  attempts  to  secure  the  imprisonment, 
and  death  if  possible,  of  Conde  and  of  the  admiral  Co- 
ligny  (q.  v.).  The  Huguenots  now  became  alarmed, 
and  their  leaders  adopted  the  resolution,  Sept.  29, 1567, 
to  secure,  at  the  castle  of  Morceaux,  the  king’s  person, 
in  whose  name  Catharine  de  Medicis  was  acting.  The 
court,  having  received  information  of  this  decision,  fled 
to  Paris.  Conde'  immediately  followed,  and, laying  siege 
to  the  city,  opened  the  second  war  of  the  Huguenots. 
After  a siege  of  one  month,  Conde  and  the  constable 
Montmorency  met  for  battle,  November  10, 1567,  at  St. 
Denis.  Here  2700  Huguenots  fought  against  no  less 
than  20,000  royal  troops.  But  so  well  did  the  Huguenots 
maintain  their  ground,  that  the  victory  was  undecided. 
The  superior  force  of  the  royal  troops  led  Conde  to  fall 
hack  into  Lorraine,  where  he  was  re-enforced  by  10, COO 
German  warriors,  under  prince  John  Casimir.  Conde 
with  these  forces  now  threatened  Paris  (Feb.  1568),  and 
Catharine,  in  her  fright,  at  once  offered  a treaty  of  peace, 
which  was  contracted  at  Longjumeau  March  27,  1568, 
re-establishing  the  terms  of  the  treaty  of  Amboise.  gen- 
erally known  as  the  petite  pair  (little  peace)  of  Long- 
jumeau. Notwithstanding  this  treaty,  which  both  par- 
ties seem  to  have  signed  only  because  they  felt  under 
compulsion,  Catharine  continued  all  manner  of  persecu- 
tions against  the  Protestants.  “The  pulpits,  encour- 
aged by  the  court,  resounded  with  the  horrid  maxim 
that  faith  need  not  be  kept  with  heretics,  and  that  to 
massacre  them  was  just,  pious,  aud  useful  for  salvation” 
(De  Thou,  Vie  de  Coligng,  p.  350).  In  less  than  three 
months  more  than  3000  Protestants  were  either  assassi- 
nated or  executed.  L’Hopital,  the  friend  of  peace,  and 
the  upholder  of  the  rights  of  all  citizens  without  dis- 
tinction of  creed,  who  had  become  obnoxious  to  Rome 
and  her  adherents,  was  dismissed  or  forced  to  resign, 
and  the  seizure  of  Conde  and  Coligny  resolved  upon. 
Fortunately,  however,  for  the  Protestants,  some  of  the 


HUGUENOTS 


393 


HUGUENOTS 


royal  officers  were  unwilling  to  be  instruments  in  the 
massacre  likely  to  ensue  upon  such  an  act,  and  Conde 
and  Coligny  received  warning  to  flee  for  their  lives. 
Rochelle,  one  of  the  strongholds  of  the  Protestants, 
which  had  bafiled  all  the  attacks  and  plans  of  Catha- 
rine, was  open  to  receive  them,  and  thither  they  conse- 
quently directed  their  steps  for  safety,  closely  pursued 
by  the  royal  blood-hunters.  Measures  had  also  been 
planned  for  entrapping  the  other  leading  Protestants, 
but  they  all  failed  in  the  execution.  “The  cardinal  of 
Chatillon,  an  adherent  to  the  Protestant  cause,  who  was 
at  his  see  (Beauvais),  escaped  into  Normandy,  took  the 
disguise  of  a sailor,  and  crossed  over  to  England  in  a 
small  vessel,  and  there  became  of  great  service  to  the 
Protestant  cause  by  his  negotiations.  The  queen  of 
Navarre,  warned  in  time  by  Coligny,  also  hastened  to 
Rochelle  with  her  son  and  daughter,  contributing  some 
money  and  four  thousand  soldiers.  The  chiefs-in-gen- 
eral  took  the  defensive,  and  immediately  raised  levies 
in  their  different  provinces.  The  guerrillas  maintained 
by  these  persons  kept  the  Catholic  army  in  full  employ- 
ment, and  preserved  Rochelle  from  a general  attack  till 
proper  measures  had  been  taken  for  its  defence.”  Cath- 
arine, outwitted  in  her  diabolical  attempts,  now  resolved 
to  cajole  the  Huguenots  into  submission,  and  to  this 
end  published  an  edict  declaring  the  willingness  of  the 
government  to  protect  the  Protestants  in  future,  as  well 
as  to  render  them  justice  for  the  past.  But  so  com- 
pletely was  this  edict  at  variance  with  her  conduct  that 
it  passed  unnoticed.  Enraged  at  this,  she  now  promul- 
gated several  edicts  against  the  Protestants,  revoking 
every  edict  that  had  ever  been  published  in  their  favor, 
and  forbade,  under  the  penalty  of  death,  the  exercise  of 
any  other  religion  than  the  Roman  Catholic.  This  sud- 
den revocation  of  all  former  edicts  made  her  acts  a pub- 
lic declaration  that  she  was  resolved  on  a war  of  relig- 
ion, and  the  Huguenots,  fortified  in  their  strongholds, 
and  with  assistance  which  they  had  obtained  from  Ger- 
many and  England,  now  began  the  third  religious  war. 
On  March  18, 1569,  the  two  contending  armies  met  in 
battle  at  Jarnac,  near  La  Rochelle,  in  which  the  Catho- 
lics, headed  by  the  duke  of  Anjou,  later  Henry  III,  de- 
feated the  Protestants,  making  prince  Conde  a prisoner, 
whom  they  afterwards,  on  recognition  in  the  camp,  mur- 
dered in  cold  blood.  The  Protestants  being  thus  left 
without  a leader,  the  command  was  intrusted  to  Colig- 
ny. But  the  admiral,  ever  unselfish  in  his  motives,  find- 
ing that  the  army  had  become  greatly  dispirited  by 
their  recent  reverses,  urged  Jeanne  D’Albret,  queen  of 
Navarre,  to  give  them  her  son  as  princely  leader.  She 
at  once  hastened  to  Cognac,  where  the  army  was  en- 
camped, and  presented  her  son,  prince  Henry  of  Bearn, 
afterwards  Henry  IV,  then  in  his  IGth  year,  and  Henry, 
son  of  the  lately  fallen  Conde,  still  younger,  as  the  lead- 
ers of  the  cause,  under  the  guidance  of  Coligny.  Hav- 
ing obtained  further  re-enforcements  from  Germany,  the 
Huguenots  now  laid  siege  to  Poitiers,  but  on  Oct.  3, 
1569,  were  again  defeated  in  a battle  at  Moncontour. 
Still  sustained  by  means  from  England,  Switzerland, 
and  Germany,  the  Huguenots  were  enabled  to  take 
Nimes  in  15G9,  to  free  prince  Henry  of  Navarre  and  the 
eldest  Henry  of  Conde  in  La  Rochelle,  to  beat  the  royal 
army  at  L119011  and  Arnay-le-Duc  in  1570,  to  besiege 
Paris,  and,  finally,  to  dictate  (Aug.  S,  1570)  the  terms  of 
the  peace  of  St.  Germain-en-Laye,  by  which  they  were 
to  hold  La  Rochelle,  La  Charite,  Montauhan,  and  Cog- 
nac for  two  years,  and  were  guaranteed  liberty  of  wor- 
ship outside  of  Paris,  equality  before  the  law,  admission 
to  the  universities,  and  a general  amnesty.  “ Under 
the  terms  of  this  treaty,  France  enjoyed  a state  of  quiet 
for  about  two  years,  but  it  was  only  the  quiet  that  pre- 
ceded the  outbreak  of  another  storm.” 

Having  failed  to  crush  the  Protestants  in  the  open 
field  Catharine,  now  sought  to  accomplish  her  object  by 
treachery  and  by  a general  massacre.  In  her  artful 
way  she  contrived  a marriage  between  her  own  daugh- 
ter Margaret  of  Valois,  sister  of  the  king,  and  Henry  of 


Bearn,  king  of  Navarre,  the  proclaimed  leader  of  the 
Huguenots.  Jeanne  d’Albret,  the  mother  of  Henry  of 
Bearn,  and  even  the  admiral  Coligny,  heartily  concur- 
red in  the  projected  union,  in  the  hope  that  it  would  be 
an  important  step  towards  a close  of  the  old  feud ; but 
many  of  the  Protestant  leaders  mistrusted  Catharine’s 
intentions,  especially  after  her  late  atte  mpt  to  assassi- 
nate Coligny,  and  they  felt  inclined  to  withdraw.  None 
the  less,  as  the  preparations  for  the  royal  nuptials  were 
in  progress,  the  Reformers  took  courage,  and  resorted  in 
large  numbers  to  Paris  to  celebrate  the  great,  and  to 
them  so  promising,  event.  Catharine  now  felt  that  her 
favorable  moment  had  come.  On  the  day  after  the 
marriage,  which  had  been  celebrated  with  great  pomp, 
and  was  followed  by  a succession  of  feasts  and  gave  ties, 
in  which  the  principal  members  of  the  nobility,  Protes- 
tant as  well  as  Romanist,  were  participating,  and  while 
the  fears  of  the  Huguenots  were  completely  disarmed,  a 
private  council  was  held  by  Catharine  and  the  king,  in 
which  it  was  decided  that  on  a given  night  all  the  Prot- 
estants should  be  murdered,  with  the  exception  of  llen- 
I rv  of  Bearn  and  the  young  prince  of  Conde.  For  the 
head  of  Coligny  the  king  offered  a special  price  of  50,000 
crowns;  but  the  attempt  made  upon  his  life  failed  to 
prove  fatal  to  Coligny,  and  the  hypocritical  Charles 
even  professed  sorrow  for  the  injury  he  sustained.  See 
Coligny.  The  night  of  August  21, 1572,  was  appoint- 
ed for  the  massacre.  About  twilight  in  the  morning 
of  the  24th,  as  the  great  bell  of  the  church  of  St.  Ger- 
main was  ringing  for  early  prayers,  to  open  the  festi- 
val of  St.  Bartholomew’s  day,  Charles,  his  mother,  and 
the  duke  of  Anjou  sat  in  a chamber  of  the  palace  to 
give  the  signal  for  the  massacre.  A pistol-shot  fired 
from  one  of  the  windows  of  the  palace  called  out  300  of 
the  royal  guard,  who,  wearing,  to  distinguish  themselves 
in  the  darkness,  a white  sash  on  the  left  arm  and  a 
white  cross  in  their  hats,  rushed  out  into  the  streets, 
shouting  “ For  God  and  the  king !”  and  commenced  the 
most  perfidious  butchery  recorded  in  history.  The 
houses  of  the  Huguenots  were  broken  in,  and  all  who 
could  be  found  murdered,  the  king  himself  firing  from 
his  windows  on  those  who  passed  in  the  street.  Some 
5000  Huguenots,  among  them  their  great  and  noble 
leader,  the  admiral  Coligny  (q.  v.),  were  thus  killed  in 
Paris ; while  many  Roman  Catholics  met  with  the  same 
fate  at  the  hands  of  personal  enemies,  under  the  plea  of 
their  being  inclined  to  Protestantism.  The  next  day 
orders  were  sent  to  the  governors  of  the  provinces  to 
follow  the  example  of  the  capital.  A few  only  had  the 
manliness  to  resist  this  order,  and  in  the  space  of  sixty 
days  some  70,000  persons  were  murdered  in  the  prov- 
inces. See  Bartholomew's  Day.  Those  who  es- 
caped took  refuge  in  the  mountains  and  at  La  Rochelle. 
Henry  of  Navarre  was  compelled  to  sign  a recantation. 
The  prince  of  Conde  became  a Roman  Catholic,  and 
Charles  IX  declared  in  Parliament  that  Protestantism 
was  extinct  in  France.  “Catharine  de  Medicis  wrote 
in  triumph  to  Alva  (the  ignominious  commmander  of 
Philip's  troops  in  the  Netherlands),  to  Philip  II  of 
Spain,  and  to  the  pope,  of  the  results  of  the  three  days’ 
dreadful  work  at  Paris.  When  Philip  heard  of  the 
massacre,  he  is  said  to  have  laughed  for  the  first  and 
only  time  in  his  life.  Rome  was  thrown  into  a delirium 
of  joy  at  the  news.  The  cannon  were  fired  at  St.  An- 
gelo; Gregory  XIII  and  his  cardinals  went  in  procession 
from  sanctuary  to  sanctuary  to  give  God  thanks  for  the 
massacre.  The  subject  was  ordered  to  be  painted,  •anil 
a medal  was  struck  to  celebrate  the  atrocious  event, 
with  the  pope’s  head  on  one  side,  and  on  the  other  an 
angel,  with  a cross  in  one  hand  and  a sword  in  the  other, 
pursuing  and  slaying  a band  of  flying  heretics.  1 lie 
legend  it  hears,  ‘ Ugonottomm  Strages,  1572,’  briefly  epit- 
omizes the  terrible  story.”  The  festival  of  St.  Barthol- 
omew was  also  ordered  to  be  yearly  celebrated  in  com- 
memoration of  the  event.  Not  satisfied  with  these 
demonstrations  at  Rome,  Gregory  sent  cardinal  Orsini 
on  a special  mission  to  Paris  to  congratulate  the  king 


HUGUENOTS 


394 


HUGUENOTS 


His  passage  was  through  Lyons,  where  1800  persons 
had  been  killed,  the  bodies  of  many  of  whom  had  been 
thrown  into  the  Rhone  to  horrify  the  dwellers  near  that 
river  below  the  city  (Smiles,  Huguenots,  p.  60). 

Although  deprived  so  suddenly  of  their  leaders,  and 
greatly  weakened  by  the  slaughter  of  great  numbers  of 
their  best  and  bravest  men,  the  Protestants  gathered 
together  in  their  strong  places,  and  prepared  to  defend 
themselves  by  force  against  force.  “ In  the  Cevennes, 
Dauphinv,  and  other  quarters,  they  betook  themselves 
to  the  mountains  for  refuge.  In  the  plains  of  the  south 
fifty  towns  closed  their  gates  against  the  royal  troops. 
Wherever  resistance  was  possible  it  showed  itself.” 
Thus  opened  the  fourth  war  of  the  Huguenots.  The 
duke  of  Anjou,  at  the  head  of  the  Komanists,  marched 
against  the  forts  in  the  hands  of  the  Huguenots.  He 
attacked  La  Rochelle,  but  was  repulsed,  and  obliged  to 
retire  from  the  siege,  after  losing  nearly  his  whole  army. 
The  duke  of  Anjou  becoming  king  of  Poland,  peace  was 
concluded  June  24,  1573,  and  the  Protestants  received 
as  security  the  towns  of  Montauban,  Nimes,  and  La  Ro-  | 
ehelle,  besides  enjoying  freedom  of  conscience,  though 
not  of  worship,  throughout  the  kingdom.  Charles  IX 
falling  ill,  the  so-called  Conspiration  des  politiques  was 
formed  by  the  Huguenots,  with  a section  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  nobility,  to  depose  the  queen  and  the  Guises, 
and  to  place  on  the  throne  the  chief  of  the  Romanists, 
the  duke  of  Alent^on,  the  youngest  son  of  Catharine  and 
of  Francis  II,  who,  from  political  motives,  made  common 
cause  with  the  Huguenots.  The  leaders  made  arrange- 
ments with  Henry  of  Navarre  and  the  prince  of  Conde, 
Protestant  princes,  for  the  humiliation  of  Austria,  and 
only  a premature  rising  of  the  Protestants  defeated  the 
plan.  Some  of  the  conspirators  were  executed,  D’Alen- 
£on  and  Henry  of  Navarre  were  arrested,  and  Conde 
tied  to  Germany,  where  he  returned  to  Protestantism, 
saying  that  his  abjuration  had  been  obtained  from  him 
by  violence. 

The  fifth  war  of  the  Huguenots  began  under  Henry 
III,  the  former  duke  of  Alen^on,  who  became  king  of 
France  in  1574.  In  this  war  the  Roman  Catholics  lost 
several  strong  towns,  and  were  repeatedly  defeated  by 
the  Huguenots.  The  prince  of  Conde  returned  to  Franee 
with  a German  army  under  the  orders  of  John  Casimir, 
and  in  March,  1576,  was  joined  by  the  duke  of  Alen^on, 
who  -was  at  enmity  with  the  king.  In  the  south,  Henry 
of  Navarre  was  making  rapid  progress.  The  court  be- 
came alarmed,  and  finally  concluded  the  peace  of  Beau- 
lieu, May  8,  1576,  granting  the  Huguenots  again  a 
number  of  places  of  security,  and  freeing  them  from  all 
restrictions  in  the  exercise  of  their  religion,  also  the 
promise  to  indemnify  the  German  allies  of  the  Hugue- 
nots for  the  war  expenses.  The  Guises,  thus  frustrated 
in  their  political  designs,  instigated  the  inhabitants  of 
Peronne,  under  the  leadership  of  Humie'res,  to  organize 
an  association  called  the  Holy  League  (q.  v.),  in  1576, 
for  the  defence  of  the  interests  of  Romanism.  The 
league  rapidly  increased,  was  supported  by  the  king,  by 
Spain,  and  the  pope,  and  finally  led  to  the  sixth  war  of 
the  Huguenots.  The  states,  however,  refusing  to  give 
the  king  money  to  carry  it  on,  and  the  Roman  Catho- 
lics being  divided  among  themselves,  the  peace  of  Ber- 
gerac was  signed  in  September,  1577.  The  conditions 
were  the  same  as  on  the  former  occasions;  but  Catha- 
rine, in  her  anxiety  to  diminish  the  growing  power  of 
the  Guises,  entered  into  a private  treaty  with  Henry  of 
Navarre  (at  Nerac),  and  thus  the  Protestants  were  put 
in  possession  of  a few  more  towns. 

The  seventh  war  of  the  Huguenots , called  at  court  the 
Guerre  des  mnoureux,  was  occasioned  by  the  Guises, 
who  instigated  the  king  to  demand  back  the  towns 
given  to  the  Protestants  as  securities,  and  to  violate  the 
treaty  in  various  ways.  Conde  answered  by  taking 
Lafere  in  November,  1579,  and  Henry  by  taking  Cahors 
in  April,  1580.  The  duke  of  Anjou  intending  to  em- 
ploy the  royal  forces  in  the  Netherlands,  and  the  Hugue- 
nots having  met  with  several  disastrous  encounters  with 


the  Romanists,  peace  was  concluded  again  at  Flex,  Sept, 
12,  1580,  and  the  Huguenots  were  permitted  to  retain 
their  strongholds  six  years  longer.  A comparatively 
long  interval  of  peace  for  France  now  followed. 

But  when  the  duke  of  Anjou  (formerly  of  Alen^on) 
died  in  1584,  leaving  Henry  of  Navarre,  a Protestant, 
heir  presumptive  to  the  throne,  the  “Holy  League” 
sprang  again  into  existence  under  the  influence  of  the 
adherents  of  the  Guises,  the  strict  Roman  Catholic  mem- 
bers of  the  Parliament,  the  fanatical  clergy,  and  the  ul- 
tra conservative  party.  The  states,  especially  the  six- 
teen districts  of  Paris  (whence  the  association  also  took 
the  name  of  Ligue  des  Seize),  took  an  active  part  in  it. 
Henry,  duke  of  Guise,  finally  concluded  a treaty  with 
Spain,  signed  at  the  castle  of  Joinville  January  3,  1585, 
j creating  a strong  opposition  to  the  succession  of  Henry 
of  Navarre  to  the  throne,  and  aimed  even  against  Hen- 
ry III,  who  seemed  inclined  to  favor  his  brother-in-law. 
At  the  same  time  the  Guises  sought,  though  not  alto- 
gether successfully,  the  approbation  of  pope  Gregory 
XIII  to  the  declaration  of  cardinal  of  Bourbon  as  heir 
to  the  throne,  under  the  pretense  that,  as  a faithful 
Catholic,  he  would  aid  his  Church  in  extirpating  here- 
sy. The  real  object  of  the  duke  of  Guise,  however,  in 
proposing  so  old  an  incumbent  for  the  throne,  was  to  ob- 
tain for  himself  the  crown  of  France,  which  seemed  by 
no  means  a chimerical  attempt,  as  he  had  received 
strong  assurances  of  support  from  Spain.  With  the  as- 
sistance of  soldiers  and  funds  sent  him  hv  his  Spanish 
ally,  the  duke  succeeded  in  taking  several  towns,  not 
only  from  the  Huguenots,  but  also  from  the  king.  Henry 
III,  hesitating  to  send  an  army  against  the  duke  of 
Guise  promptly,  was  finally  obliged  to  sign  the  edict  of 
Nemours,  July  7,  1585,  by  which  all  modes  of  worship 
except  that  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  were  forbid- 
den throughout  France.  All  Huguenot  ministers  were 
given  one  month,  and  the  Huguenots  six  months,  to 
leave  the  country,  and  all  their  privileges  were  declared 
forfeited.  Though  put  under  the  ban  as  heretics  by 
pope  Sixtus  Y , Henry  of  Navarre  and  the  prince  of 
Conde  prepared  to  resist  the  execution  of  the  royal  edict 
by  force  of  arms.  With  the  aid  of  money  from  England, 
and  an  army  of  30,000  men  sent  from  Germany,  they 
took  the  field  in  1587,  and  began  the  eighth  war  of  the 
Huguenots,  called  also,  from  the  names  of  the  leaders, 
the  war  of  the  three  llenrys.  The  Huguenots  gained 
the  battle  of  Coutras,  Oct.  8, 1587,  but  were  subsequent- 
ly defeated,  and  their  German  allies  were  obliged  to 
leave  the  country.  The  duke  of  Guise  was  left  master 
of  the  field.  He  was  not  slow  to  grasp  the  power  of  the 
state,  and  obliged  the  king  to  sign  the  edict  of  reunion 
of  Rouen,  July  19,  1588,  for  the  forcible  submission  of 
the  Huguenots,  and  the  exclusion  of  Henry  of  Navarre 
from  the  succession  to  the  throne.  The  king,  to  whom 
it  now  became  evident  that  the  duke  of  Guise’s  aim  was 
to  secure  the  throne  for  himself,  feigned  acquiescence  in 
the  demand,  called  a Parliament,  at  Blois  in  order  to 
gain  time,  and  there  caused  both  of  the  Guises  to  be 
murdered  (Dec.  23,  1588).  Both  Protestants  and  Ro- 
man Catholics  were  indignant  at  this  act  of  treachery; 
the  Parliament  denounced  the  king  as  an  assassin,  and 
Charles  of  Guise,  duke  of  Maycnne,  who  had  escaped 
the  massacre,  made  himself  master  of  several  provinces, 
marched  on  Paris,  and  took  the  title  of  lieutenant  gen- 
eral of  the  kingdom.  Catharine  having  died  in  1589, 
Henry  III  made  a treaty  with  Henry  of  Navarre,  but 
was  himself  assassinated  in  the  camp  of  St.  Cloud  by 
the  monk  Jacques  Clement,  August  1, 1588.  Henry  of 
Navarre,  a Protestant  in  belief,  now  succeeded  to  the 
throne  under  the  title  of  Henry  IV.  His  first  step  was 
to  conquer  for  himself  the  possessions  which  had  been 
wrested  from  his  kingdom  by  the  league  and  the  .Span- 
iards. But  finding  that  he  could  obtain  security  of  life 
and  permanent  possession  of  his  dominion  only  by  be- 
coming a Roman  Catholic,  he  abjured  the  faith  of  his 
fathers  in  the  church  of  St.  Denis.  July  25,  1593.  The 
duke  of  Maveiuie,  supported  by  Spain,  still  continued 


HUGUENOTS 


395 


HUGUENOTS 


the  war  against  the  king,  but  the  latter  having  obtain-  | 
ed  absolution  from  the  pope  in  15D5,  notwithstanding 
the  efforts  of  the  Jesuits,  who  had  sold  their  influence  . 
to  Spain,  many  forsook  the  league  to  join  the  royal 
standard,  and  the  duke  of  Mayenne  was  finally  obliged 
to  make  peace  with  the  king.  On  April  15,  1598,  Hen- 
ry IV  granted  to  the  IYotestants,  for  whom  he  ever 
cherished  great  affection,  the  celebrated  Edict  of  Nantes 
(q.  v.),  consisting  of  ninety-one  articles,  by  which  the 
Huguenots  were  allowed  to  worship  in  their  own  way 
throughout  the  kingdom,  with  the  exception  of  a few 
towns;  their  ministers  were  to  be  supported  by  the 
state;  inability  to  hold  offices  was  removed;  their  poor 
and  sick  were  to  be  admitted  to  the  hospitals;  and,  final- 
ly, the  towns  given  them  as  security  were  to  remain  in 
their  hands  eight  years  longer,  l’ope  Clement  VI II 
became  enraged  at  the  concessions,  and  wrote  Henry 
that  “a  decree  which  gave  liberty  of  conscience  to  all 
was  the  most  accursed  that  had  ever  been  made.”  His 
influence  was  also  used  to  induce  Parliament  to  refuse 
its  approval  to  the  edict,  but  it  was  finally  registered 
in  spite  of  Romish  craftiness,  Feb.  25, 1599. 

After  repeated  attempts  upon  the  life  of  the  king,  who 
had  made  himself  especially  obnoxious  to  the  Jesuits, 
he  was  eventually  assassinated  by  Ravaillac  May  If, 
1610.  Henry’s  second  wife, Mary  of  Medicis,  and  her  son 
Louis  XI II,  still  a minor,  now  assumed  the  government. 
The  edicts  of  toleration  were  by  them  also  ratified; 
but,  notwithstanding  this  public  declaration  on  their 
part,  they  were  practically  disregarded  and  violated. 
When  prince  Henry  II  of  Conde  rose  against  the  king 
in  Nov.  1615,  the  Protestants  sided  with  him.  By  the 
treaty  of  Loudon,  May  4, 161 6,  their  privileges  were  con- 
firmed ; but,  at  the  instigation  of  the  Jesuits,  a new  edict 
of  1620  restored  Roman  Catholicism  as  the  official  relig- 
ion of  Bearn,  and  decided  that  the  Huguenots  should  be 
deprived  of  their  churches.  The  latter  resisted,  headed 
by  the  princes  of  Rohan  and  Soubise,  and  the  war  com- 
menced anew  (in  1621),  but  this  time  proved  unfavora- 
ble to  the  Protestants;  yet  at  the  peace  of  Montpellier, 
Oct.  21, 1622,  the  edict  of  Nantes  was  confirmed,  and  the 
Protestants  only  lost  the  right  of  holding  assemblies. 
In  1622, Louis  XIII  called  Richelieu,  whom  the  pope  had 
lately  created  cardinal,  to  his  councils.  The  jiower  of 
the  chancellor  once  firmly  established,  he  determined  to 
crush  the  Huguenots,  whose  destruction  he  considered 
essential  to  the  unity  and  power  of  France,  not  so  much 
on  account  of  their  religion,  as  on  account  of  their  polit- 
ical influence  at  home,  and  particularly  abroad.  He  ac- 
cordingly paid  little  attention  to  the  stipulations  of  the 
treaty  which  the  king  had  made  with  the  Huguenots, 
and  provoked  them  to  rebellion  by  all  possible  means. 
In  1625,  while  the  government  was  involved  in  difficul- 
ties in  Italy,  the  Protestauts  improved  the  opportunity 
and  rose  in  arms.  Their  naval  force,  under  Soubise, 
beat  the  royal  marine  in  several  engagements,  and  car- 
dinal Richelieu  found  himself  under  the  necessity  of  of- 
fering conditions  of  peace,  which  this  time  the  Protes- 
tants very  unwisely  refused  to  accept.  The  cardinal 
now  resolved  to  reduce  La  Rochelle,  their  stronghold. 
A powerful  army  was  assembled  and  marched  on  the 
doomed  place,  Richelieu  combining  in  himself  the  func- 
tions of  bishop,  prime  minister,  and  commander-in-chief. 
The  Huguenots  of  Rochelle  defended  themselves  with 
great  bravery  for  more  than  a year,  during  which  they 
endured  the  greatest  privations.  But  their  resistance 
was  in  vain ; even  a fleet  which  the  English  had  in- 
duced Charles  I to  send,  under  the  command  of  the  duke 
of  Buckingham,  to  their  assistance,  was  defeated  off  the 
Island  of  Rhe,  Nov.  8, 1627.  On  the  28th  of  Oct.  1628, 
Richelieu  rode  into  lioehelle  by  the  king’s  side,  in  vel- 
vet and  cuirass,  at  the  head  of  the  royal  army,  after 
which  he  proceeded  to  perform  high  mass  in  the  church 
of  St.  Margaret,  in  celebration  of  his  victory  (compare 
Smiles,  Hug.  p.  118).  The  loss  of  La  Rochelle  was  the 
death-blow  to  the  Huguenots  as  a political  power.  As 
it  was  followed  by  the  loss  of  all  their  other  strong- 


holds, Nismos,  Montauban,  Castres,  etc.,  they  Were  now 
left  defenceless,  and  entirely  dependent  on  the  will  of 
their  conqueror.  Richelieu,  however,  acting  in  a wise 
and  tolerant  spirit,  refrained  from  pushing  the  advan- 
tages which  he  had  gained  to  extreme-s,  and  advised 
the  publication  of  an  edict  which  should  grant  the  Prot- 
estants freedom  of  worship,  no  doubt  actuated  to  this 
course  by  considerations  of  state  policy,  as  lie  had  just 
entered  into  a league  with  the  Swedes  and  Germans,  and 
needed  the  good-will  of  his  Protestant  subjects  as  much 
as  that  of  the  Romanists.  June  27, 1629,  peace  was  con- 
cluded at  Alais,  and  in  the  same  year  an  edict  followed, 
called  “the  Edict  of  Pardon,”  granting  to  the  Protes- 
tants the  same  privileges  as  the  edict  of  Nantes,  with 
exception  of  their  strongholds,  which  were  demolished, 
they  ceasing  to  have  political  influence,  and  becoming 
distinguished  as  a party  only  by  their  religion.  The 
reign  of  Louis  XIII  closed  in  1629,  and  his  successor, 
Louis  XIV,  as  well  as  cardinal  Mazarin,  the  successor 
of  Richelieu,  who  had  died  a short  time  before  Louis, 
confirmed  to  the  Protestants  the  rights  and  privileges 
granted  them ; and  although  they  suffered  from  a grad- 
ual defection  of  nobles,  who,  finding  them  no  longer 
available  for  purposes  of  faction,  now  rejoined  the  old 
Church,  they  nevertheless  enjoyed  comparative  freedom 
from  persecution.  , 

The  death  of  Mazarin  in  1661  forms.another  epoch  in 
the  history  of  the  Protestants.  New  edicts  were  pub- 
lished, intended  to  damage  their  financial  interests,  and 
to  become  impediments  to  the  free  exercise  of  their  re- 
ligion. Thus,  in  1662,  an  edict  forbade  them  to  inter 
their  dead  except  at  daybreak  or  at  nightfall.  Another 
decree  in  1663  excused  new  converts  from  payment  of 
debts  previously  contracted  with  their  fellow-religion- 
ists. In  1665  "their  children  were  allowed  to  declare 
themselves  Roman  Catholics — if  boys,  at  fourteen;  il 
girls,  at  twelve  years  of  age ; parents  either  to  continue 
to  provide  for  their  apostate  children,  or  to  apportion  to 
them  a part  of  their  possessions.  In  1679  it  was  de- 
creed that  converts  who  had  relapsed  into  Protestant- 
ism should  be  banished,  and  their  property  confiscated. 
In  1680  Huguenot  clerks  and  notaries  were  deprived  of 
their  employments,  intermarriages  of  Protestants  and 
Roman  Catholics  were  forbidden,  and  the  issue  of  such 
marriages  declared  illegitimate,  and  incapable  of  succes- 
sion. In  1681,  to  strike  terror  to  the  hearts  of  the  Prot- 
estants, a royal  declaration  granted  the  right  to  Hu- 
guenot children  to  become  converts  at  the  age  of  seven 
years.  “ The  kidnapping  of  Protestant  children  was  ac- 
tively  set  on  foot  by  the  agents  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
priests,  and  their  parents  were  subjected  to  heavy  pen- 
alties if  they  ventured  to  complain.  Orders  were  issued 
to  pull  down  Protestant  places  of  worship,  and  as  many 
as  eighty  were  shortly  destroyed  in  one  diocese.  1 he 
Huguenots  offered  no  resistance.  All  that  they  did  was 
to  meet  together  and  pray  that  the  king's  heart  might 
yet  be  softened  towards  them.  Blow  upon  blow  follow- 
ed. Protestants  were  forbidden  to  print  books  without 
the  authority  of  magistrates  of  the  Romish  communion. 
Protestant  teachers  were  interdicted  from  teaching  any- 
thing more  than  reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic.  Snell 
[ pastors  as  held  meetings  amid  the  ruins  of  the  churches 
which  had  been  pulled  down,  were  compelled  to  do  pen- 
j ance  with  a rope  round  their  necks,  after  which  they 
1 were  to  be  banished  the  kingdom.  Protestants  were  pro- 
hibited from  singing  psalms  on  land  or  water,  in  work- 
shop or  in  dwellings.  If  a priestly  procession  passed  one 
of  their  churches  while  the  psalms  were  sung,  they  must 
stop  instantly,  on  pain  of  fine  or  imprisonment,  to  the 
officiating  minister.”  In  short,  from  the  pettiest  an- 
noyance to  the  most  exasperating  cruelty,  nothing  was 
wanting  on  the  part  of  the  “most  Christian  king  and 
his  abettors.  f The  intention  apparently  was  to  provoke 
the  Huguenots  into  open  resistance,  so  as  to  find  a pre- 
text for  a second  massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew. 

In  1683,  Colbert,  who  bad  been  Louis's  minister  fur 
several  vears,  and  who,  convinced  that  the  strength  of 


HUGUENOTS 


396 


HUGUENOTS 


states  consisted  in  the  number,  the  intelligence,  and  the 
industry  of  their  citizens,  had  labored  in  all  possible 
ways  to  prevent  the  hardships  which  Louis,  led  by  his 
mistress,  Madame  de  Maintenon,  and  his  Jesuit  confess- 
or, Pi- re  la  Chaise,  was  inflicting  on  the  Protestants,  was 
removed  by  death.  Military  executions  and  depreda- 
tions against  the  Protestants  now  began  throughout  the 
kingdom.  “ Pity,  terror,  and  anguish  had  by  t tints  agi- 
tated their  minds,  until  at  length  they  were  reduced  to 
a state  of  despair.  Life  was  made  almost  intolerable  to 
them.  All  careers  were  closed  against  them,  and  Prot- 
estants of  the  working  class  were  under  the  necessity  of 
abjuring  or  starving.  The  mob,  observing  that  the 
Protestants  were  no  longer  within  the  pale  of  the  law, 
took  the  opportunity  of  wreaking  all  manner  of  outrages 
on  them.  They  broke  into  their  churches,  tore  up  the 
benches,  and,  placing  the  Bible  and  hymn-books  in  a 
pile,  set  the  whole  on  fire;  the  authorities  usually  lend- 
ing their  sanction  on  the  proceedings  of  the  rioters  by 
banishing  the  burned-out  ministers,  and  interdicting  the 
further  celebration  of  worship  in  the  destroyed  church- 
es” (.Smiles,  Huguenots,  p.  135-6).  Bodies  of  troops  which 
had  been  quartered  upon  the  Protestants  to  harass  them, 
now  made  it  a business  to  convert  the  Protestants.  Ac- 
companied by  Jesuits,  they  passed  through  the  south- 
ern provinces,  compelling  the  inhabitants  to  renounce 
their  religion,  demolishing  the  places  of  worship,  and 
putting  to  death  the  preachers.  Hundreds  of  thousands 
of  Protestants,  unwilling  to  renounce  their  religion,  fled 
to  Switzerland,  the  Netherlands,  England,  and  Germany. 
In  vain  was  it  attempted  to  restrain  this  self-expatria- 
tion by  cordons  along  the  borders.  Many  Protestants 
also  made  an  insincere  profession  of  Homan  Catholi- 
cism. These,  on  the  slightest  appearance  of  relapse, 
were  put  to  death.  On  October  23, 1685,  Louis  at  last 
revoked  the  edict  of  Nantes.  This  revocation  enacted 
the  demolition  of  all  the  remaining  Protestant  temples 
throughout  France;  the  entire  proscription  of  the  Prot- 
estant religion;  the  prohibition  of  even  private  wor- 
ship under  penalty  of  confiscation  of  body  and  property ; 
the  banishment  of  all  lh-otestant  pastors  from  the  king- 
dom within  fifteen  days ; the  closing  of  all  Protestant 
schools;  the  prohibition  of  parents  from  instructing 
their  children  in  the  Protestant  faith;  the  obligation, 
under  penalty  of  a heavy  fine,  of  having  their  children 
baptized  by  the  parish  priest,  and  educating  them  in 
the  Iloman  Catholic  religion  ; the  confiscation  of  the 
property  and  goods  of  all  Protestant  refugees  who  failed 
to  return  to  France  within  four  months;  the  penalty  of 
the  galleys  for  life  to  all  men,  and  of  imprisonment  for 
life  to  all  women  detected  in  the  act  of  attempting  to 
escape  from  France.  “ Such  were  a few  of  the  dastard- 
ly and  inhuman  provisions  of  the  edict  of  Revocation. 
It  was  a proclamation  of  war  by  the  armed  against  the 
unarmed  — a war  against  peaceable  men,  women,  and 
children — a war  against  property,  against  family,  against 
society,  against  public  morality,  and,  more  than  all, 
against  the  right  of  conscience.”  But  when  we  take 
into  consideration  the  private  character  of  the  king, 
how  completely  he  was  controlled  by  abandoned  women 
and  their  friends,  the  Jesuits,  who  both  feared  and  hated 
Protestantism,  because,  if  successful,  it  would  have  been 
a death-blow  to  their  own  wicked  association,  we  can- 
not wonder  that  “great  was  the  rejoicing  of  the  Jesuits 
on  the  revocation  of  the  edict  of  Nantes,”  and  that 
“Rome  sprang  up  with  a shout  of  joy  to  celebrate  the 
event,”  and  t hat  “ Te  Deums  were  sung,  processions  went 
from  shrine  to  shrine,  and  the  pope  sent  a brief  to  Louis, 
conveying  to  him  the  congratulations  and  praises  of  the 
Romish  Church.” 

The  edict  of  Revocation  was  carried  out  with  rigor; 
and  but  one  feeling  now  possessed  the  minds  of  the  Re- 
formed, to  make  their  escape  from  that  devoted  land. 
Disguised  in  every  form  which  ingenuity  could  suggest, 
bv  every  outlet  that  Amid  anywhere  be  made  available, 
through  every  hardship  to  which  the  majority  were 
most  unaccustomed,  the  crowd  of  fugitives  pressed  for-  , 


ward  eagerly  from  their  once  dearly-loved  country'.  It 
is  impossible  to  estimate  with  accuracy  the  number  of 
the  refugees.  Sismondi  ( IIist.de  France, ) computed  that 
the  total  number  of  those  who  emigrated  ranged  from 
300,000  to  400,000,  and  he  was  further  of  opinion  that  a 
like  number  perished  in  prison,  on  the  scaffold,  at  the 
galleys,  and  in  their  attempts  to  escape ; and  Weiss  (in 
his  History  of  the  French  Protestant  Refugees)  thinks 
the  number  no  less  than  300,000  of  those  who  departed 
the  French  kingdom.  Vauban  Avrote,  only  a year  after 
the  Revocation,  that  France  had  lost  60,000,000  of  francs 
in  specie,  9000  sailors,  12,000  veterans,  600  officers,  and 
her  most  flourishing  manufactures;  and  Fenelon  thus 
described  the  last  years  of  the  reign  of  Louis  XIV : “The 
cultivation  of  the  soil  is  almost  abandoned ; the  towns 
and  the  country  are  becoming  depopulated.  All  indus- 
tries languish,  and  fail  to  support  the  laborers.  France 
has  become  as  but  a huge  hospital  without  provisions.” 
The  hospitable  shores  of  England,  which  had  long  be- 
fore this  period  furnished  an  asylum  to  the  fugitive  Hu- 
guenots, were  now  eagerly  sought,  and  the  Huguenots 
met  with  kindness  and  assistance  from  the  English  gov- 
ernment. To  Holland,  also,  and  to  Denmark,  the  best 
talent  of  the  land,  the  most  skilful  artisans,  directed 
their  steps,  and  many  great  branches  of  industry  of 
France,  by  the  folly  of  a king  who  had  taken  his  mis- 
tress as  his  first  state  counsellor,  received  their  death- 
blow. The  industry  of  some  places  was  for  a time  com- 
pletely prostrated.  Indeed,  more  than  a century  really 
passed  before  they  were  restored  to  their  former  pros- 
perity, “and  then  only  to  suffer  another  equally  stag- 
gering blow  from  the  violence  and  outrage  which  ac- 
companied the  outbreak  of  the  French  Revolution.” 
In  fact,  this  last  terrible  event  may  justly  be  considered 
not  only  as  a providential  retribution,  but  likewise  a 
natural  penalty  for  the  civil  wrongs  inflicted  upon  the 
Protestants,  since  these  cruel  measures  exiled  from  the 
country  a large  part  of  its  piety  and  intelligence,  by 
which  alone  that  catastrophe  might  have  been  averted. 

From  the  vicinity  of  Nismes,  where  the  Huguenots 
had  always  been  very  numerous,  thousands,  unwilling 
cither  to  abjure  their  faith  or  to  leave  their  native 
country,  betook  themselves  to  the  mountains  of  the  Ce- 
vennes,  and  continued  the  exercise  of  their  religion  in 
secret.  These,  and  the  mountaineers  of  the  Cevennes, 
among  whom  sprang  up  a sect  which  displayed  a re- 
markable fanatical  enthusiasm,  under  the  name  of  Cam- 
isards  (q.  v.),  finally  commenced  to  wage  war  against 
the  royal  forces,  which  was  called  the  War  of  the  Ce- 
vennes, or  the  Camisard  War.  It  was  successfully  car- 
ried on  until  1706,  when,  in  consequence  of  the  Avar  of 
succession  Avith  Spain,  they  Avere  alloAved  a respite,  the 
royal  troops  being  otherwise  employed.  Their  number 
uoav  rapidly  augmented,  especially  in  Frovence  and  Dau- 
phiny,  and  thus,  notAvithstanding  all  the  persecutions 
which  the  Protestants  had  suffered,  about  two  millions 
continued  to  adhere  to  their  religion  (Charles  Coquerel, 
Hist,  des  Eglises  da  Desert,  Par.  1841,  2 A’ols.). 

A partial  repose  Avhich  the  Huguenots  uoav  enjoyed 
for  more  than  ton  years  greatly  increased  their  numbers, 
especially  in  Provence  and  Dauphiny;  but  in  1724, 
Louis  XV,  Avho  had  ascended  the  throne  in  1715,  at  the 
instigation  of  the  eA'er-eonspiring  Jesuits,  issued  a very 
severe  ordinance  against  them.  The  spirit  of  the  age, 
howe\’cr,  Avas  too  much  opposed  to  persecution  to  suffer 
the  edict  to  work  the  mischief  intended.  The  govern- 
ors of  seA’eral  pnwinces  tolerated  the  Protestants,  and 
as  early  as  1743  they  resumed  their  assemblies  in  the 
mountains  and  Avoods,  and  celebrated  their  Mariages  du 
desert.  In  1744  neAV  edicts  Avere  issued  against  them, 
requiring  upon  those  Avho  had  been  baptized  or  married 
in  the  desert  (as  it  Avas  called)  a repetition  of  the  rite 
by  the  clergy  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  Even 
the  Roman  Catholics  themselves  soon  became  loud  in 
opposition  against  these  violent  measures,  and  the  per- 
secution gradually  ceased.  Men  like  Montesquieu  and 
Voltaire  successfully  advocated  mild  treatment,  and  it 


HUGUENOTS 


397 


HUISII 


must  be  conceded  that  the  Protestants  owed  much  of 
the  toleration  they  afterwards  met  with  to  Voltaire’s 
treatise  on  the  subject,  written  in  1763,  and  to  his  pro- 
curing the  release  of  John  Calas  (q.  v.).  Their  position 
was  still  further  improved  on  the  accession  of  Louis 
XVL  to  the  throne  (1774).  In  1787  an  edict  was  issued 
(which  the  Parliament,  however,  registered  only  in 
1789)  by  which  the  validity  of  Protestant  baptisms  and 
marriages  was  recognised,  though  subject  to  some  pure- 
ly civil  regulations;  they  were  given  cemeteries  for  the 
burial  of  their  dead,  were  allowed  to  follow  their  relig- 
ion privately,  and  granted  the  rights  of  citizenship,  with 
the  exception  of  the  right  of  holding  any  official  position. 

After  the  breaking  ont  of  the  French  Revolution  in 
1789,  a motion  was  made  in  the  General  Assembly  to 
admit  the  Protestants  to  equal  rights  with  the  Homan 
Catholics : this  motion  was  at  first  rejected,  but  finally 
carried.  A decree  of  1790  restored  the  Protestants  to 
the  possession  of  all  the  rights  and  property  they  had 
lost  subsequently  to  the  revocation  of  the  edict  of 
Nantes.  The  “Code  Napoleon”  placed  the  Protestants 
equal  in  their  civil  and  political  rights  with  the  Roman 
Catholics,  as,  in  fact,  they  had  already  been  for  more 
than  fifteen  years;  and  though,  after  the  restoration  of 
the  Bourbons,  especially  in  1815  and  1810,  the  priests 
succeeded  in  exciting  the  populace  of  the  department 
of  the  Card  to  rise  and  murder  the  Protestants,  the 
authorities  conniving  at  the  crime,  still  they  remained 
equal  to  the  Roman  Catholics  in  the  eye  of  the  law. 
The  spirit  of  persecution,  however,  continued,  though  in 
a somewhat  weaker  form,  both  among  the  people  and 
the  government  of  the  Bourbons,  even  in  that  of  the 
Orleans  family,  though,  after  the  July  Revolution  of 
1830,  the  reformed  charter  of  France  had  proclaimed 
universal  freedom  of  conscience  and  of  worship,  a prin- 
ciple which  was  reasserted  in  1848.  (For  the  present 
state  of  Protestantism  in  France,  see  France.) 

The  descendants  of  the  Huguenots  long  kept  them- 
selves a distinct  people  in  the  countries  to  which  their 
fathers  had  fled,  and  entertained  hopes  of  a return  to 
their  country ; but  as  time  passed  on  these  hopes  grew 
fainter,  while  by  habit  and  interest  they  became  more 
united  to  the  nations  among  whom  it  fell  to  their  lot  to 
establish  a new  home.  The  great  crash  of  the  first 
Revolution  finally  severed  all  the  ties  that  bound  them 
to  their  native  laud.  They  either  changed  their  names 
themselves  by  translating  them,  or  they  were  changed 
by  the  people  among  whom  they  resided  by  mispro- 
nunciation. Thus,  in  England,  “the  Lemaitres  called 
themselves  Master;  the  Leroys,  King;  the  Tonneliers, 
Cooper ; the  Lejeunes,  Young ; the  Leblancs,  White . 
the  Lenoirs,  Black ; the  Loiseans,  Bird.  Thenceforward 
the  French  colony  in  London  no  longer  existed.  At  the 
present  day,  the  only  vestige  of  it  that  remains  is  in 
the  Spitalfields  district,  where  a few  thousand  artisans, 
for  the  most  part  poor,  still  betray  their  origin,  less  by 
their  language  than  by  their  costume,  which  bears  some 
resemblance  to  that  of  the  corresponding  class  in  Louis 
XIV’s  time.  The  architecture  of  the  houses  they  in- 
habit resembles  that  of  the  workmen  of  Lille,  Amiens, 
and  the  other  manufacturing  towns  of  Picardy.  The 
custom  of  working  in  cellars,  or  in  glazed  garrets,  is  also 
borrowed  from  their  original  country”  (Weiss,  p.  283, 
284).  In  our  own  country  also,  where  the  Huguenots 
settled  at  an  early  day,  their  descendants  may  be  found, 
particularly  in  New  York,  Maryland,  Virginia,  and  the 
Carolinas;  and,  as  in  England,  they  have  become  nat- 
uralized, and  their  names  have  been  changed,  until  it 
has  become  difficult  to  recognise  them.  “Their  sons 
and  grandsons,  little  by  little,  have  become  mingled 
with  the  society  which  gave  a home  to  their  fathers,  in 
the  same  way  as  in  England,  Holland,  and  Germany. 
As  their  Church  disappeared  in  America,  the  members 
became  attached  to  other  evangelical  denominations, 
especially  the  Episcopal,  Reformed  Dutch,  Methodist, 
and  Presbyterian.  The  French  language,  too,  has  long 
since  disappeared  with  their  Church  service,  which  used 


| to  call  to  mind  the.  country  of  their  ancestors.  French 
was  preached  in  Boston  until  the  close  of  the  last  cen- 
^ tury,  and  at  New  York  the  Huguenot  services  were  cel- 
ebrated both  in  French  and  English  as  late  as  1772. 
Here,  at  the  French  Protestant  church,  which  succeeded 
the  Huguenot  years  since,  the  Gospel  was  preached  in  the 
same  language  in  which  the  prince  of  French  pulpit  or- 
ators, Saurin,  used  to  declare  divine  truth  two  centuries 
ago.  The  Huguenot  church  at  Charleston,  South  Car- 
olina, alone  has  retained  in  its  primitive  purity,  in  their 
public  worship,  the  old  Calvinistic  liturgy  of  its  fore- 
fathers. The  greater  part  of  the  exiled  French  families 
have  long  since  disappeared,  and  their  scattered  com- 
munities have  been  dissolved  by  amalgamation  with 
the  other  races  around  them.  These  pious  fugitives 
have  become  public  blessings  throughout  the  world,  and 
have  increased  in  Germany,  Holland,  and  England  the 
elements  of  power,  prosperity,  and  Christian  develop- 
ment. In  our  land,  too,  they  helped  to  lay  the  firm 
comer-stones  of  the  great  republic  whose  glory  they 
most  justly  share”  t G.  P.  IMsoswav,  The  lluguenots  in 
America,  as  Appendix  to  Harper’s  edition  of  Smiles'* 
Huguenots,  p.  442).  See  Beza,  Hist,  ties  Eglises  ref  or - 
rnees  en  France  (Antw.  1580,  3 vols) ; Thuane,  Uistoria 
sui  tempo ris  (Paris,  1620,  and  often,  7 vols.) ; Davila, 
Storia  delle  guerre  civili  tli  Francia  (Venice,  1 630) ; St. 
Aignon,  He  I'etat  des  Protestants  en  France  (Paris,  1808; 
2d  ed.  1818);  Lacretelle,  Ilistoire  de  France  pendant  les 
guerres  de  la  religion  (Paris,  1814, 1815,4  vols.);  Benoit, 
Ilistoire  de  Vedit  de  Xantes  (Delft,  1693,  2 vols.) ; Rul- 
hiere,  Eclaircissements  historiques  sur  les  causes  de  la 
Revocation  de  VEdit  de  Xantes  (Par.  1788,2  vols.) ; Court 
de  Gebelin,  Hist,  des  troubles  des  Cevennes  (Villefranche, 
1760,  2 vols.);  Browning,  Hist,  of  the  Huguenots  (Lond. 
1828,  2 vols.)?  Brockhaus,  Conversations-Lexikon,  \ iii, 
129  sq. ; Pierer,  Universal  Lexikon,  viii,  583  sq. ; Weiss, 
Ilistorg  of  the  French  Protestant  Refugees ; Coquercl, 
Ilistoire  des  Eglises  du  desert  (Paris,  1857,  2 vols.  8vo) ; 
Felice,  Ilistoire  des  Protestants  de  France  ; Peyrat,  Ilis- 
toire des  Pasteurs  du  Desei't  (Paris,  2 vols.  8vo) ; Crowe, 
Ilistorg  of  France  (London,  1867, 1869,  5 vols.);  Smiles, 
The  Huguenots  (3d  edit.  London,  1869)  ; Lond.  Rev.  July, 
1855 ; Chambers,  Cgclop.  v,  450  sq.  For  special  biog- 
raphies, Ilaag,  La  France  Protest  ante  (Par.  8 vols.  8vo) ; 
Michelet.  Louis  XIV  et  la  Revocation  de  V Edit  de  Xantes 
(Paris,  1860,  8vo) ; Michelet,  Guerres  de  Religion  (Par. 
1857,  8vo) ; Drion,  Ilistoire  Chronol.  de  VEglise  Protes- 
tante  de  France  (2  vols.  12ino);  Smedley,  History  of  the 
Reformed  Religion  in  France  (London,  1827,  3 vols.) ; 
Athanase  Coquercl  fils,  Les  Forcats  pour  la  foi  (Paris, 
1868).  (J.ll.W.) 

Hugues.  See  Hugo. 

Huguet,  Marc  Antoine,  a French  prelate,  was  bom 
at  Moissac  in  1757.  He  entered  the  sacred  order  in  his 
youth,  and  became  curate  of  a little  village  in  Auvergne. 
In  1791  he  was  elected  bishop  of  Creuse.  During  the 
French  Revolution  he  was  a member  of  the  Legislature, 
and  of  the  National  Convention,  and  voted  for  the  death 
of  the  king.  Complicated  in  several  popular  disturb- 
ances, and  conspiring  against  the  established  govern- 
ment, he  was  arrested  in  1795,  and  imprisoned  at  11am 
for  several  months.  Engaging  in  another  conspiracy 
which  failed  to  accomplish  its  object,  he  was  again  ar- 
rested, condemned  to  death,  and  executed  Oct.  6, 1769. 
— lloefer,  A out.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  466. 

Huish,  Alexander,  a learned  English  divine,  who 
flourished  in  the  17th  century,  was  fellow  of  Magdalen 
College,  rector  of  Beckington  and  Homblotton,  Somer- 
setshire. He  published  Lectures  on  the  Lord's  Prayer 
(Lond.  1626, 4to).  He  was  also  a very  superior  scholar 
of  exegesis,  and  a prominent  assistant  on  Walton’s  Poly- 
glot Bible.  His  sendees  were  highly  commented  upon 
by  bishop  Walton  himself.  See  Wrangham,  Proleg.  ii, 
203;  Todd, Life  of  Walton, p. 269  sq. ; Stoughton  (John), 
Eccles.  Hist,  of  Engl.  (London,  1870,  2 vols.  8vo),  ii,  332 ; 
Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  58. 


HUISSEAU 


398 


HULDAH 


Huisseau,  Jacques  d’,  1,  a French  theologian,  j 
was  born  in  the  latter  half  of  the  16th  century.  He  en- 
tered the  monastery  at  Marmontiers,  and  was  made 
great  prior  of  his  order  in  1504.  Refusing  in  1604  ad- 
mission to  Matthieu  Renusson,  visitor  of  the  order  of  St. 
Benoit  for  the  province  of  Tours,  he  was  deposed  from 
his  position,  deprived  of  all  power,  and  excommunica- 
ted. He,  however,  succeeded  in  regaining  his  position. 
At  the  time  of  his  death,  Sept.  24, 1626,  he  was  provin- 
cial of  the  Benedictine  congregation  of  exempts  in 
France.  He  published,  for  the  use  of  his  abbey,  a col- 
lection of  prayers,  entitled  Enchiridion  Precum  (Tours, 
1(307) : — Supplement  a la  Chronique  des  Abbes  de  Mar- 
moutiers  (1615): — Chronique  des  Prieurs  (1625).  This 
last-named  work  Huisseau  translated  himself  into  Lat-  ■ 
in. — Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  468  sq. 

Huisseau,  Jacques  d’,  2,  another  French  minis- 
ter and  theologian,  who  flourished  in  the  17th  century. 
But  little  is  known  of  his  early  life.  He  was  professor 
of  theology  at  Saumur,  and  rendered  himself  famous  by 
his  La  disciple  des  Eglises  Reformees  de  Prance,  arec  nn 
recueil  des  observations  et  questions  sur  la  plupart  des  ar-  j 
tides  tire  des  actes  des  sgnoeles  nationaux  (1650, 4to,  prob- 
ably published  at  Saumur ; Geneva,  1666,  4to ; Bionne, 
near  Orleans,  1675,  12mo).  The  great  success  which 
followed  this  work  estranged  from  him  many  of  his  ac- 
quaintances and  associates  in  the  Church,  who  envied 
his  prospects,  and  who  even  presented  complaints  against 
him  in  1656,  meeting,  however,  with  no  encouragement 
from  the  superiors  of  Huisseau.  In  1670  he  published. 
La  Reunion  du  Ckristianisme,  ou  la  matiere  de  rejoindrc 
les  Chretiens  dans  line  seule  Confession  de  foi  (Saumur, 
12mo).  It  favored  the  union  of  all  who  believed  in 
Christ  as  the  God  or  man  Saviour,  and  was  attacked  by 
La  Bastide  in  his  Remarques  sur  un  livre  intitule  ilLa 
Reunion,"  etc.  (1670,  12mo),  and  it  was  condemned  by 
the  Synod  of  Anjou.  Huisseau  endeavored  to  explain 
his  views,  but  the  synod  declined  to  give  him  a hear- 
ing, and  Anally  deposed  him  from  the  priesthood.  He 
emigrated  to  England,  and  was  reinstated  as  minister 
without  being  obliged  to  retract.  He  died  there  befo-c 
1690,  about  70  years  of  age. — Biographie  UnirerscL  , 
lxvii,  441. 

Hurt,  Epiiraim,  a dissenting  English  minister,  of 
■whose  early  life  but  little  is  known.  He  was  minister 
for  some  time  at  Roxhall,  Warwickshire,  and  finally  em- 
igrated to  this  country,  and  settled  in  New  England. 
He  beeame  minister  of  a congregation  at  Windsor,  Conn., 
and  died  in  1644.  Huit  published,  in  his  mother  coun- 
try, Prophecie  of  Daniel  explained  (Lond.  1643,  4to). — 
Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  913. 

Huk'kok  (Hebrew  Ckukkok',  incised ; Sept. 
’Ikuik  v.  r.  T«rar«,Yulg.  Ifucusa),  a town  on  the  bor- 
der of  Naphtali,  near  Zebulon,  not  far  from  Jordan,  west 
of  Aznoth-Tabor,  and  in  the  direction  of  Asher  (Josh, 
xix,  34) ; elsewhere  written  Hukok  (p’piin,  Chukok', 

1 Chron.  vi,  75;  Sept.  Tara/c,  Yulg.  flucar) ; but  proba- 
bly, in  this  latter  passage,  erroneously  for  Helkath 
(Josh,  xxi,  35;  comp,  xix,  25).  Eusebius  and  Jerome 
( Onomast . s.  v.  Icoc),  as  well  as  Benj.  of  Tudela  (ii, 421), 
allude  to  it.  It  is  doubtless  identical  with  the  modern 
small  village  Yakuk,  between  the  plain  of  Genesareth 
and  Safed  (Robinson’s  Researches,  iii,App.  p.  133;  Eib- 
lioth.  Sac.  1843,  p.  80),  said  to  contain  the  grave  of  Ha-  i 
bakkuk  (see  new  edit,  of  Researches , iii,81 ; and  comp. 
Schwarz,  Palestine,  p.  182). 

Hu'kok  (1  Chron.  vi,75).  See  Hukkok. 

ETul  (Heb.  Chul,  V^n,  a circle ; Sept.  OeA),  the  name 
of  the  second  son  of  Aram  (B.C.  cir.  2414),  who  appears 
to  have  given  name  to  an  Aramaean  region  settled  by 
him  (Gen.  x,  23;  1 Chron.  i,  17).  Joseplni3  (Ant.  i,  G, 
4)  places  it  (OvXov,  as  Havercamp  corrects  for  "Ornoc) 
in  Armenia,  comparing  it  with  the  district  CholoboUne, 
according  to  the  conjecture  of  Bochart  ( Phaleg , ii,  9). 
Michaelis,  taking  the  word  in  the  sense  of  a hollow  or 


valley  (Spicileg.  ii,  135),  understands  C ale- Syria  (comp. 
Josephus,  Ant.  xii,  7,  1 ; 1 Mace,  iii,  13) ; and  Schultens 
(Purad.  p.  282)  refers  it  to  the  southern  part  of  Meso- 
potamia, from  the  signification  sand.  More  probable 
seems  the  identification  proposed  by  Rosenmuller  (Al- 
terthum.  i,  2,  p.  253)  with  the  district  now  called  Huleli , 
around  the  lake  Merom,  at  the  upper  sources  of  the  Jor- 
dan (Burckhardt,  Trar.  i,  87),  which,  although  a small 
tract  and  no  proper  part  of  Aramaja,  seems  to  be  sup- 
ported by  the  rendering  of  Saadias  (compare  Scliwarz, 
Palestine,  p.  41,  note).  According  to  Dr.  Robinson,  the 
name  el-Huleh,  as  used  by  the  present  inhabitants,  be- 
longs strictly  to  the  northern  part  of  the  basin  in  which 
the  lake  lies,  but  is  commonly  extended  to  embrace  the 
whole ; its  different  qnarters  fall  within  various  juris- 
dictions, and  have  special  names  ( Researches , iii,  342). 
A great  portion  of  this  northern  tract  near  the  lake  is 
now  an  impassable  marsh,  probably  in  consequence  of 
the  choking  up  of  the  streams  by  rubbish  (Bibliotheca 
Sacra,  1846,  p.  200,  201).  The  remainder  is  a very  fer- 
tile plain,  forming  a valley  near  Banias  (Robinson’s  Re- 
searches, new  ed.  iii,  396-398).  Traces  of  the  name  Hul 
or  Huleli  appear  in  the  district  Ulatha  (OvXaSa)  around 
Paneas,  mentioned  by  Josephus  as  originally  belonging 
to  Zenodorus,  and  bestowed  by  Augustus  upon  Herod 
(Ant.  xv,  10,  3 ; comp.  Wars,  i,  20,  4). — Gesenius.  See 
Merom. 

Hul  da  or  Holda  (the  friendly,  or  benignant),  a 
German  goddess,  known  in  the  old  legends  as  “Frau 
Hollo,”  was  originally  the  goddess  of  marriage  and  fe- 
cundity, worshipped  and  invoked  by  maids  and  wives; 
she  sent  bridegrooms  to  the  former  and  children  to  the 
latter.  She  was  represented  as  a beautiful  white  wom- 
an, surrounded  by  great  numbers  of  children,  in  her  fa- 
vorite haunts  in  the  depths  of  the  sea  or  the  hearts  of 
hills.  She  was  also  the  patroness  of  agriculture  and 
domestic  life,  with  its  manifold  employments.  Later 
she  appears  in  the  fairy  talcs  of  Hesse  and  Thuringia — 
probably  written  by  Christian  priests — as  an  old  and  ugly 
woman,  with  a long  nose,  large  teeth,  coarse  hair,  and  a 
companion  of  the  wild  and  the  roaming.  But  even  in 
these  last  tales  traces  of  kind  and  pleasant  ways  are  left. 
— Pierer,  Univ.  Lex.  viii,  480 ; Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  453. 
(J.  H.W.) 

Hul'dali  (Hebrew  Chuldah',  fn^n,  weasel ; Sept. 
"OXcav,  Josephus  ’OA<?«,  Ant.  x,  4,  2),  wife  of  Shallum, 
a prophetess,  who,  in  the  reign  of  Josiah,  abode  in  that 
part  of  Jerusalem  called  the  Mishneli,  where  the  book 
of  the  law  was  discovered  by  the  high-priest  Hilkiah. 
B.C.  623.  This  prophetess  was  consulted  respecting  the 
denunciations  which  it  contained.  She  then  delivered 
an  oracular  response  of  mingled  judgment  and  mercy; 
declaring  the  not  remote  destruction  of  Jerusalem,  but 
promising  Josiah  that  he  should  be  taken  from  the 
world  before  these  evil  days  came  (2  Kings  xxii,  14-20; 
2 Chron.  xxxiv,  22-28).  Huldali  is  only  known  for 
this  circumstance.  She  was  probably  at  this  time  the 
widow  of  Shallum,  a name  too  common  to  suggest  any 
information:  he  is  said  to  have  been  “keeper  of  the 
wardrobe,”  but  whether  the  priestly  or  the  royal  ward- 
robe is  uncertain.  If  the  former,  he  must  have  been  a 
Levite,  if  not  a priest.  See  Harhas.  As  to  her  resi- 
dence in  the  Mishneh,  which  the  A.  A',  renders 

“in  the  college,”  there  is  no  ground  to  conclude  that 
any  school  or  college  of  the  prophets  is  to  be  understood. 
The  name  means  second  or  double;  and  many  of  the 
Jews  themselves  (as  Jarchi  states)  understood  it  as  the 
name  of  the  suburb  lying  between  the  inner  and  outer 
wall  of  Jerusalem ; perhaps  i.  q.  “ the  lower  city,”  or 
A era  (q.  v.).  It  is  safest  to  regard  it  as  a proper  name 
denoting  some  quarter  of  Jerusalem  about  which  we  are 
not  certain,  and,  accordingly,  to  translate  in  the  Mish- 
neh, for  which  we  have  the  precedent  of  the  Septuagint, 
which  has  iv  tjj  Xlaatvq.  The  place  of  her  residence 
is  mentioned  probably  to  show  why  she,  being  at  hand, 
was  resorted  to  on  this  urgent  occasion,  and  not  Jere- 


399 


IIULSEMANN 


IIULDERICUS 


miah,  who  was  then  probably  away  at  his  native  town 
Anathoth,  or  at  some  more  distant  place.  There  were 
gates  of  the  temple  in  the  middle  of  the  southern  wall, 
called  “ the  gates  of  IJuldah”  (Mishna,  tit. Middoth,  i,  3), 
which,  if  they  were  so  named  from  any  connection  with 
the  prophetess,  ma}r  indicate  her  residence  on  Opliel. — 
Kitto.  See  Siiallum  ; Josiaii. 

Huldericus,  Augusthnsis  Episcopus,  who  flour- 
ished in  8G0,  was  a scholar  of  Adalbert,  and  descended 
from  the  counts  of  Kilbury  and  Dillengen.  He  is  known 
by  his  letter  addressed  to  pope  Nicholas  against  the  cel- 
ibacy of  the  clergy  ( Epistola  de  Cleri  ccelibutn).  It  was 
translated  into  English,  and  published  about  the  time 
of  the  Reformation  (in  lGmo),  without  date. — Darling, 
Cyclop.  Bibliograjikica ; Clarke,  /Succession  of  Sac.  Lit- 
erature, ii,  531. 

Huldrich,  Jean  Jacques,  a Swiss  theologian,  born 
at  Zurich  in  1683,  belonged  to  a family  of  which  several 
members  have  distinguished  themselves  as  theologians 
and  philologists.  See  Huldeiucus.  He  devoted  much 
of  his  time  to  the  acquisition  of  Hebrew,  and  went  to 
tbe  universities  of  Holland  to  pursue  a course  of  study 
in  the  Oriental  languages.  On  his  return  to  his  native 
place  in  1706  he  was  made  pastor  of  the  House  of  Or- 
phans. In  1710  he  was  appointed  professor  of  moral 
science  at  the  Gymnasium  of  Zurich.  Ilis  scholarship 
was  of  a superior  order,  and  he  was  frequently  solicited 
to  accept  a professorship  at  the  universities  of  Heidel- 
berg and  Groningen,  lie  died  at  Zurich  May  25, 1731. 
He  published  Jlistoria  Jeschua  Nazareni , a Judceis 
blaspheme  corrupta , ex  munuscripto  hactemis  inedito  lleb. 
et  Lai.,  cum  notis  (Leyd.  1705,  8vo) : — Gentilis  Obtrecta- 
tor,  sice  de  calumniis  gent  ilium  in  Judas  os  comment  arms 
(Zurich,  1744, 4to),  a collection  of  sermons,  etc. — Hoefer, 
Nouv.  Bioy.  Gen.  xxv,  470  sq. 

Hull,  Hope,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister,  was 
born  March  13, 17G3,  in  Worcester  County,  on  the  east- 
ern shore  of  Maryland.  His  early  education  was  rather 
neglected,  and  he  was  apprenticed  to  a carpenter  at  Bal- 
timore. In  this  city  he  was  converted,  and  entered  the 
itinerancy  in  1785.  He  was  flrst  appointed  to  Salis- 
bury, North  Carolina.  With  the  exception  of  a brief 
period  spent  in  New  England,  his  time  was  given  to 
the  introduction  of  Methodism  in  the  Southern  States. 
His  last  appointment  was  the  Savannah  Circuit,  Geor- 
gia. In  1794  he  travelled  with  bishop  Asburv,  and  lo- 
cated in  1795.  He  died  October  4, 1818,  at  Athens,  Ga. 
Hull  possessed  wonderful  power  over  those  who  came 
within  his  influence,  and  was  one  of  the  most  eloquent 
ministers  in  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church  in  his  day. 
His  piety  was  deep,  and  many  were  converted  under  his 
labors.  During  his  active  work  in  the  ministry,  he  se- 
cured for  himself  a pretty  good  education,  and  was  at 
one  time  able  even  to  assume  the  duties  of  teacher  of 
Latin.  lie  was  also  one  of  the  first  and  strongest  sup- 
ports of  the  University  of  Georgia,  which  was  founded 
during  his  residence  at  Athens. — Stevens,  Memorials  of 
Methodism , chap,  ix ; Boehm,  Histor.  Reminisc.  p.  3GG  ; 
Sprague,  A nnals  A mer.  Pulpit , vii,  1 1 2 sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Huln,  Guillaume,  a Roman  cardinal,  born  at  Etain. 
in  the  diocese  of  Verdun,  in  the  latter  half  of  the  14th 
century.  He  was  at  one  time  archdeacon  of  Verdun, 
and  later  of  Metz.  He  was  an  attendant  at  the  Coun- 
cil of  Basle  in  1440,  and  was  one  of  the  supporters  of 
the  antipope  (Amadeus  of  Savoy)  Felix  V,  who  gave 
him  the  cardinal’s  hat.  Nicholas  V conlirmed  the  car- 
dinal after  the  schism  Dee.  19, 1449.  He  died  at  Borne 
Oct.  28, 1455. — Migne,  Diet.  Theol.  xxxi,  1092. 

Hulot,  Henri  Louis,  a French  theologian,  was  bom 
at  Avenay  March  1, 1757.  He  was  professor  flrst  at  the 
seminary,  then  at  the  University  of  Rouen,  where  he 
was  obliged  to  resign  at  the  outbreak  of  the  Revolu 
tion,  and  to  flee  from  persecution  which  threatened 
him.  He  went  to  Garni,  where  he  was  made  grand- 
vicar,  until  the  entrance  of  the  French  into  the  Nether- 
lands in  1794  forced  him  again  to  flee.  He  went  suc- 


cessively to  Munster,  Erfurt,  Dresden,  and  Augsburg. 
When  he  was  permitted  to  return  to  his  native  land,  he 
was  appointed  curate  of  the  parish  of  Avan^on,  and  later 
of  Antiguy.  After  twenty  years  of  assiduous  labor  at 
this  parish,  he  was  made  canon,  and  finally  grand  vicar 
and  official  at  liheims.  He  died  Sept.  1,  1829.  His 
principal  writings  are  Lett  re  aux  catholiques  de  Reims 
(in  Latin  and  French,  Garni,  1793, 8vo) : — Lettre  des pre- 
tres  Frangais  it  I'eveque  de.  (Hand: — Collect,  des  brefs  du 
papePie  VI  (Augsb.  I79G)  :—Lettres  a M . Schrofenberg, 
eceque  de  Freysinyue  et  de  ltutisbonne , en  faveur  des  pre- 
tres  Franq.  (i79G,  8vo): — Etat  des  Cuthol.  Angl.  (1798, 
8vo)  : — Salisburyensis  cujusdem  reliyiosi  delecta  casti- 
yatio,  sen  vindiciee  cleri  Gallicani  exulis  (1800,  8vo): — 
Gallicanorum  Episcoporvm  dissensus  innocuus  (1801, 
8vo) : — Sedis  apostolicee  Trinmpkus , sen  sedes  apostolica , 
protectore  deo,  semper  invicta  (Laou,  1830,  8vo).  Sev- 
eral controversial  works  and  sermons  were  left  in  MS. 
— Hoefer,  Xouv.  Bioy.  Gen.  xxv,  479. 

Hulse,  John,  was  born  at  Middlewieh  in  1708-.  He 
was  educated  at  St.  John’s  College,  Cambridge ; obtained 
a small  curacy  in  the  country ; and, upon  the  death  ofhis 
father  in  1753,  withdrew  to  his  paternal  inheritance  in 
Cheshire,  where,  owing  to  his  delicate  state  of  health, 
he  lived  in  retirement  until  his  death  in  1790.  He  be- 
queathed estates  in  order  to  found  two  divinity  scholar- 
ships in  St.John’s  College,  the  liulsean  Prize  Essay, and 
to  endow  the  offices  of  “ Christian  Advocate”  and  “ Chris- 
tian Preacher”  in  tbe  University  of  Cambridge.  The 
duties  of  the  “ Christian  Preacher,”  or  Hulsean  Lectur- 
er, according  to  this  appointment,  were  to  deliver  and 
print  twenty  sermons  every  year,  either  upon  the  evi- 
dences of  Christianity,  or  the  difficulties  of  Holy  Scrip- 
ture. The  funds  being  inadequate,  the  lectures  were 
not  commenced  until  1820,  and  in  1830  the  number  of 
sermons  to  be  delivered  in  a year  was  reduced  to  eight. 
In  18G0  the  office  of  “Christian  Advocate”  was  changed 
to  a professorship,  called  the  Hulsean  Professorship  of 
Divinity.  Bishop  Ellicot  was  the  first  incumbent  in 
the  new  chair.  At  present  the  office  of  the  Hulsean 
Lecturer  or  Preacher  is  annual,  and  the  duty  of  the 
lecturer  to  preach  not  less  than  four,  nor  more  than  six 
sermons  in  the  course  of  the  year.  Among  the  most 
important  of  the  Hulsean  sermons  are  the  following: 
Blunt  (J.  J.),  Principles  for  the  proper  Understanding 
of  the  Mosaic  Writings,  1832  (Loud.  1833,  8vo) ; Alford, 
The  Consistency  of  the  Dirim  Conduct  in  revealing  the 
Doctrines  of  Redemption,  1841  (Cambridge,  1812,  8vo)| 
Trench,  The  Fitness  of  the  Holy  Scripture  for  unfolding 
the  Spiritual  Life  of  Man,  1845  (Cambridge,  1845,8vo) ; 
Trench,  Christ  the  Desire  of  all  Nations,  1846  (Cam- 
bridge, I84G,  8vo) ; Wordsworth,  On  the  Canon  oj  the 
Scriptures  of  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  and  on  the 
Apocrypha,  1847  (Loud.  1848,  8vo);  Wordsworth,  Lec- 
tures on  the  Apocalypse,  critical,  expository,  and  prac- 
tical, 1848  (Loud.  1849, 8vo). — Darling,  Cyclopaedia  Bib - 
fiographica,  i,  1573;  Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  453;  Farrar, 
Ilist.  of  Free  Thought,  p.  207. 

Hulsean  Lectures.  See  IIulse,  John. 

Hiilsemann,  Johann,  a German  theologian,  was 
born  in  Ostfriesland  in  1G02,  and  was  educated  at  the 
universities  of  Wittenberg  and  Leipzig.  In  1G29  he 
was  appointed  professor  of  theology  at  the  University 
of  Wittenberg;  he  was  also  a member  of  the  “ Leipziger 
Convent”  of  1630,  and  of  the  “Colloquium”  at  Thorn  in 
1645,  where  he  performed  the  office  of  moderator  tlnolo- 
gorum  A ugustana:  confessinnis.  In  I64G  he  was  called 
as  professor  of  systematic  theology  to  the  University  of 
Leipzig.  He  died  in  1661.  In  connection  with  his 
son-in-law,  Calovius  (q.  v.),  he  carried  on  the  contro- 
versy against  Calvinism  as  a strictly  orthodox  Luther- 
an. An  able  polemic  and  a thoroughly  educated  theo- 
logian, who  in  many  respects  may  l>e  compared  to  the 
scholastics  of  the  16th  century,  Ilulsemami  distinguish- 
ed in  his  attacks  against  Calvinism  (in  his  work  Cal- 
vinismus  irreconciliabilis, M itt.  1644,  Lpz.  1646),  incited 


HUMAN-  DEPRAVITY 


400 


HUME 


by  bishop  Joseph  Hall’s  Roma  irreco?iciliabilis,  the  fun- 
damental articles  and  the  presuppositions  from  the  pos- 
sible inferences.  His  most  celebrated  work  is  Brevia- 
rum  theolog.  exhibens  preecipuas  Jidei  coiit  rover sias  (1640, 
and  often),  and  in  an  enlarged  form,  Extensio  breviarii 
tlieologici  (1655,  1657). — Herzog,  Real-Enajklop.  vi,  304 
sq.;  Theol.  Univ.  Lex.  i,  372;  Gass,  Protest.  Dogma t.  i, 
318  sq. ; ii,  38  sq. ; Tholuck,  Geist.  d.  luther.  TheoL  Wit- 
tenberg's, p.  164  sq. 

Human  Depravity.  See  Depravity. 

Humanists  (from  the  Latin  liters  humaniores,  po- 
lite letters)  was  the  name  assumed  in  the  beginning  of 
the  16th  century  by  a party  which,  with  Erasmus  and 
Reucliliu  at  their  head,  was  especially  devoted  to  the 
cultivation  of  classical  literature,  and  which,  as  not  un- 
frequently  happens  in  the  enthusiasm  of  a new  pursuit, 
was  arrayed  in  opposition  to  the  received  system  of  the 
schools,  not  alone  in  the  study  of  the  classical  languages, 
but  even  in  philosophy,  and  eventually  in  theology. 
See  Chambers,  Cyclop,  vol.  v. ; Gieseler,  Ch.  Hist,  iii,  406 
sq. ; Kurtz,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  35,  127. 

Humanitarians.  I.  A name  given  to  those  sev- 
eral classes  of  anti-Trinitarians  who  believe  that  Christ 
was  nothing  more  than  a mere  man,  born  according  to 
the  usual  course  of  nature,  and  one  who  lived  anti  died 
according  to  the  ordinary  circumstances  of  mankind.  As 
such  are  generally  regarded  the  early  Judaizing  sects 
of  Ebion,  Cerinthus,  and  Carpocrates ; but  this  classifi- 
cation is  by  no  means  justified,  especially  as  regards  the 
Ebionites  (q.  v.),  who  taught  that  at  the  baptism  in  the 
Jordan  the  Messianic  calling  first  arose  in  Jesus,  and 
that  at  this  time  a higher  spirit  joined  itself  to  him,  in- 
vesting him  with  miraculous  powers,  that  left  him  only 
at  the  hour  of  his  departure  from  this  world.  The  ear- 
liest recorded  author  of  the  purely  humanitarian  theory 
is  generally  regarded  as  Theodotus  (q.  v.)  of  Byzantium 
(A.D.  196),  surnamed  the  Tanner,  who,  having  denied 
Christ  in  time  of  persecution,  defended  himself  after- 
wards by  declaring  that,  in  so  doing,  “ he  had  denied 
not  God,  but  man.”  A contemporary  of  Theodotus,  Ar- 
temon  (q.  v.),  in  like  manner  believed  in  God  the  crea- 
tor, but  held  that  Christ  was  a mere  man,  born  of  a vir- 
gin, however,  and  superior  to  the  prophets,  and  asserted 
that  such  had  been  the  universal  belief  of  Christians  till 
the  time  of  Zephyrinus.  202  (comp.  Liddon,  Our  lord's 
Divinity  [Bampton  Lect.  1866],  p.  425).  These  opinions 
must  of  course  be  distinguished  from  the  doctrines  of  the 
Arian  sects,  even  the  lowest  schools  of  which  admit  the 
pre-existence  of  Christ,  and  his  pre-eminence  among  the 
creatures  of  God.  See  Alogi  ; Arians  ; Artemonitks  ; 
Soctnians;  Unitarians. 

II.  The  name  Humanitarian  is  also  sometimes  applied 
to  the  disciples  of  St.  Simon  (the  successor  of  Baboeuf, 
who  flourished  under  Napoleon  I),  and  in  general  to 
those  who  look  to  the  perfectibility  of  human  nature  as 
their  great  moral  and  social  dogma,  and  ignore  alto- 
gether the  dependence  of  man  upon  supernatural  aid, 
believing  in  the  all-sufficiency  of  his  own  innate  powers. 
A party  of  Communists  who  arose  in  France  about  1839 
also  took  the  name  from  the  newspaper  I'humanitaire, 
their  organ.— Buck,  Theol.  Diet. ; Pierer,  Univers.  Lex. ; 
Chambers,  Cyclop. ; Sliedd,  History  of  Doctrines , i,  259. 
See  Communism. 

Humanity,  the  exercise  of  the  social  and  benevo- 
lent virtues;  a fellow-feeling  for  the  distresses  of  an- 
other. It  is  properly  called  humanity  because  there  is 
little  or  nothing  of  it  in  brutes.  The  social  affections 
are  conceived  by  all  to  be  more  refined  than  the  selfish. 
Sympathy  and  humanity  are  universally  esteemed  the 
finest  temper  of  mind,  and  for  that  reason  the  preva- 
lence of  the  social  affections  in  the  progress  of  society  is 
held  to  be  a refinement  of  our  nature. — Buck. 

HUMANITY  AND  CHRISTIANITY.  See  Chris- 
tianity. 

HUMANITY  of  Christ.  See  Christ,  Person  of; 
Christology;  Incarnation. 


Human  Sacrifices.  See  Sacrifice. 

Human  Soul.  See  Soul. 

Humbert  (by  some  improperly  called  Hubert),  a 
French  cardinal,  was  bom  probably  towards  the  close  of 
the  10th  century.  He  entered  the  order  of  the  Bene- 
dictines at  Moyen-le-Moutier  in  1015.  In  1049  pope 
Leo  IX,  who  had  been  bishop  of  Toul,  the  diocese  in 
which  the  monastery  of  Moyen-le-Moutier  was  situated, 
called  Humbert  to  Rome,  and  he  was  first  ereated  arch- 
bishop of  Sicily,  and  in  1051  cardinal  bishop  of  Silva 
Candida.  Humbert  is  believed  to  be  the  first  French- 
man who  received  the  cardinal’s  hat.  He  was  inti- 
mately associated  with  the  pope,  was  admitted  to  all  his 
councils,  and  was  the  Roman  ambassador  to  Constanti- 
nople to  effect  a union  with  the  Eastern  or  Greek 
Church.  Under  pope  Victor  III  he  was  made  chancel- 
lor and  librarian  at  the  Vatican,  which  offices  he  con- 
tinued to  hold  under  the  pontifical  successors  Etienne 
III,  Nicolas  II,  and  Alexander  II.  He  was  at  the  head 
of  the  party  opposed  to  Berenger,  and  obliged  him  to 
make  a confession  of  faith  at  the  synod  at  Rome  in 
1059.  He  died  about  1063.  He  wrote  a number  of 
works,  among  others  a treatise  against  the  Simonians 
(publislieil  by  Martene  in  his  A necdota),  and  a narrative 
of  his  embassy  to  Constantinople.  This  narrative  and 
two  other  polemical  works  against  the  Greek  Church 
have  been  printed  several  times,  especially  in  the  An- 
nates Ecclesiastici  of  Baronius.  All  his  writings  have 
been  collected  and  printed  bv  Migne,  vol.  cxliii  (1853), 
p.  929-1278.  — Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  483; 
Migne,  Encyclop.  Theol.  xxxi,  1092  sq. 

Humbert,  general  of  the  order  of  Dominican  monks, 
was  bom  at  Romans,  France,  about  1200.  He  was  early 
sent  to  Paris  to  be  educated  as  a clergyman,  and  soon 
became  prominent  as  an  assistant  preacher  to  the  cele- 
brated Jourdan.  He  entered  the  order  in  1224,  and  was 
made  priest  at  Lyons.  In  1242  he  was  elected  “pro- 
vincial” of  Tuscany,  in  1244  “ provincial”  of  France,  and 
in  1254  general  of  his  order.  In  1263,  however,  he  ab- 
dicated this  high  position,  and  retired  as  a simple  monk, 
first  to  a monastery  at  Lyons,  and  later  to  a like  insti- 
tution at  Valencia.  The  patriarchate  of  Jerusalem  was 
offered  him  in  1264,  but  he  declined  it.  He  died  July 
14, 1277.  He  wrote  OJJicium  Ecclesiasticum  universum 
tam  nocturnum  quam  diurmnr,,  ad  usum  ordinis  prcedica- 
torum: — Expositio  super  regulam  St.  Avgustini: — Ex- 
positio  super  Constitutioncs  ordinis  fratrum  prnedicato- 
rum , not  quite  complete : — Liber  de  instruetione  officiali- 
um  ordinis f ratrum praidicatorum  (printed  several  times; 
the  best  edition,  Lyons,  1515) : — De  Erucliiione  Preedica- 
torum,  also  entitled  De  A rte  pradicandi,  has  been  insert- 
ed in  the  Collection  of  the  Church  Fathers,  vol.  xxv: — 
Liber  de  Pradicatione  Crucis , an  appeal  to  the  Chris- 
tians against  infidels: — Liber  de  eis  qua  tractunda  vide- 
bantur  in  Concilio  generali  Lugduni  celebrando,  of  which 
extracts  were  published  by  Martene  in  his  Thesaurus 
A necdot.  vol.  vii,  etc. — Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gener.  xxv, 
483  sq. 

Humbert,  a French  theologian,  -was  bom  at  Gen- 
drex,  near  Paris,  about  the  middle  of  the  13th  century. 
In  July,  1296,  he  was  elected  abbe  of  Prulli,  in  the  dio- 
cese of  Sens,  and  he  died  there  INI  arch  14,  1298.  He 
wrote  several  theological  and  philosophical  works,  all 
of  which  remain  imprinted.  His  most  important  work 
is  Sentential  super  libros  Metaphysics  Aristotelis,  a com- 
mentary on  Aristotle’s  metaphysics. — Hoefer,  Nouveau 
Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  485;  Hist.  Lift,  de  la  France,  xxi, 
86. 

Humble  Access,  Prayer  of,  is  a phrase  in  some 
churches  for  a divine  supplication  made  by  the  priest 
kneeling  at  the  altar  before  the  consecration. 

Hume,  David,  the  most  notable  man  of  letters  and 
speculation  in  Scotland  during  the  last  century.  He 
was  almost  equally  eminent  as  a metaphysician,  a his- 
torian, and  a political  essayist.  He  was  bom  at  Edin- 
burgh April  26  (O.  S.),  1711.  On  his  father’s  side  he 


HUME 


401 


HUME 


was  related  to  the  earls  of  Home  or  Hnme,  and  through 
his  mother  he  was  the  grandson  of  Sir  David  Falconer, 
lord  president  of  the  court  of  justice.  His  father  was 
not  rich,  but  he  was  an  independent  proprietor,  owning 
the  estate  of  Ninewells,  in  Berwickshire.  But  David 
was  the  younger  son,  and  was  entitled  to  only  a small 
share  of  his  father’s  substance.  lie  was  left  an  orphan 
in  his  infancy,  and,  with  his  brother  and  one  sister,  de- 
pended on  the  sole  care  of  his  excellent  mother.  He 
passed  without  special  note  through  the  University,  and 
was  designed  for  the  Scotch  bar,  but  he  had  no  taste  for 
the  profession ; and  having  spent  seven  years  at  home 
at  Ninewells,  after  leaving  college,  ostensibly  engaged 
in  studying  the  sages  of  the  law,  he  visited  Bristol  in 
1733  with  some  mercantile  aspirations.  Thence,  after 
a few  months  of  disgust,  he  passed  over  into  France,  and 
took  up  his  abode  first  at  Bheims,  and  afterwards  at  La 
Flechi.  Here  he  devoted  himself  to  philosophy  for  life, 
and  composed  his  Treatise  of  Human  Nature . It  was 
in  a discussion  with  one  of  the  Jesuit  fathers  of  La 
Flechi  that  the  celebrated  argument  against  miracles 
Hashed  upon  his  mind.  The  Treatise  of  Human  Nature 
was  published  in  1737,  after  his  return  to  England.  He 
says  himself  of  it,  “It  fell  dead-born  from  the  press.” 
The  family  home  at  Ninewells  was  again  his  shelter, 
and  here  he  renewed  his  studies  and  extended  his  spec- 
ulations. In  1742  he  published  the  first  part  of  his  As- 
says, Moral  awl  Political,  wiiich,  in  his  opinion,  met 
with  considerable  favor.  Still,  he  had  obtained  no  as- 
sured provision  in  life.  He  was  disappointed  in  an  ap- 
plication for  a professorship  in  the  University  of  Edin- 
burgh, and  in  1745  he  accepted  the  charge  of  the  mar- 
quis of  Annandale.  With  him  he  resided  twelve  im- 
pleasant  months,  but  he  derived  some  emolument  from 
the  association.  In  1746  he  became  secretary  to  gen- 
eral St.  Clair,  whom  in  1747  he  attended  on  his  military 
embassy  to  Vienna  and  Turin.  The  Inquiry  concerning 
the  Human  Understanding — a recast  of  the  first  part  of 
his  first  treatise — was  published  while  he  was  at  Turin. 
In  1749  he  resought  his  old  refuge  at  Ninewells,  and  oc- 
cupied himself  with  the  composition  of  his  Political 
Discourses,  and  his  Inquiry  into  the  principles  of  Mor- 
als. The  former  constituted  the  second  part  of  his  es- 
says; the  latter  was  a revision  and  modification  of  the 
second  part  of  his  Treatise  of  Human  Nature,  which  has 
always  been  better  known  in  Germany  than  in  England. 
In  1751,  on  the  marriage  of  his  brother,  he  abandoned 
the  family  seat,  and,  in  company  with  his  sister,  made 
a new  home  in  Edinburgh.  He  applied  for  a chair  in 
the  University  of  Glasgow,  but  again  failed.  In  1752 
he  accepted  the  post  of  librarian  to  the  Advocates’  Li- 
brary in  Edinburgh,  but  transferred  nearly  all  his  small 
salary  to  the  blind  poet,  Blacklock.  He  now  engaged 
in  the  composition  of  his  History  of  England,  which  had 
attracted  his  regards  some  years  before.  The  partisan 
temper  in  which  it  is  designed  is  revealed  by  the  period 
which  he  first  took  up.  He  plunged  in  medias  res,  or, 
rather,  he  commenced  nearly  at  the  end,  and  worked 
backwards.  From -its  publication  Hume  experienced 
such  hostility  and  disappointment  that  he  would  have 
changed  his  name  and  retired  to  the  Continent  if  he 
had  not  been  prevented  by  the  occurrence  of  the  Seven 
Years’  War.  The  first  volume  of  the  History  of  Eng- 
land appeared  in  1754;  the  second  in  1756  or  1757.  Be- 
tween the  two  was  published  the  Natural  History  of 
Religion  (8vo),  which  was  answered  by  bishop  Hurd. 
The  History  of  the  House  of  Tudor  came  out  in  two  vol- 
umes in  1759;  and  in  1761,  two  volumes,  containing  the 
early  history  of  England,  completed  the  work,  which,  be- 
fore its  conclusion,  was  recognised  as  an  English  classic, 
and  still  is  justly  so  regarded.  If  the  work  encountered 
various  and  violent  opposition,  it  gradually  achieved 
eminent  popularity,  and  rendered  the  author  “ not 
only  independent,  but  opulent.”  Being  now  “ turned  of 
fifty,”  he  resolved  to  spend  the  remainder  of  his  life  in 
philosophical  dignity  and  comfortable  retirement.  The 
resolve  was  of  no  long  duration.  The  marquis  of  Hert- 
IV. — C c 


ford  invited  Ilume,  with  whom  he  was  personally  un- 
acquainted, to  become  his  secretary  of  legation  at  the 
French  court.  The  distinguished  philosopher  and  his- 
torian was  received  with  marked  attentions  and  flatter- 
ies by  the  eminent  persons  assembled  at  Paris.  It  was 
the  period  when  the  union  of  infidel  sentiments  with 
literary  renown  had  become  the  rage  in  the  most  bril- 
liant salons.  After  two  years  lord  Hertford  was  recall- 
ed, but  Hume  remained  as  charge  tfaffaires  till  1766, 
and  received  a pension  of  £400  for  his  diplomatic  ser- 
vices. The  “canny  Scot”  had  become  a rich  old  bach- 
elor, and  was  able  to  extend  his  patronage  and  aid  to 
Rousseau  on  his  arrival  in  England,  and  even  to  procure 
for  him  the  offer  of  a pension  from  the  crown.  These 
favors  ended  in  a quarrel  between  the  protected  and  the 
protector,  of  which  an  account  was  given  by  the  latter 
in  a pamphlet.  About  this  time  Ilume  became  under- 
secretary of  state,  and  held  the  office  for  two  years,  re- 
turning to  Edinburgh  in  1769.  Here  he  passed  the  re- 
maining years  of  his  life,  with  the  exception  of  a brief 
visit  to  Harrowgate  and  Bath,  and  it  was  shortly  before 
setting  out  on  this  journey,  undertaken  for  the  restora- 
tion of  his  declining  health,  that  lie  wrote  his  .1  utubiog- 
raphy.  He  had  been  attacked  with  diarrhoea  in  the 
spring  of  1775,  and  succumbed  to  the  disease  on  Sun- 
day, Aug.  25, 1776.  He  was  serene  in  life,  he  was  equal- 
ly serene  in  death.  If  Christianity  had  no  consolations 
for  an  expiring  foe,  the  grave  presented  no  terrors  to 
the  man  who  had  cavilled  about  all  religion.  Yet  few 
persons  will  assent  to  the  unmeasured  eulogy  of  Adam 
Smith,  who  “considered  him,  both  in  his  life,  and  since 
his  death,  as  approaching  as  nearly  to  the  idea  of  a per- 
fectly wise  and  virtuous  man  as  perhaps  the  nature  cf 
human  frailty  will  permit.”  But  Smith,  notwithstand- 
ing this  testimony,  refused  to  publish  the  Dialor/ues  on 
Natural  Religion,  though  a special  legacy  of  £200  was 
attached  to  such  publication.  They  were  not  given  to 
the  world  until  1779,  and  then  by  the  agency  of  Hume’s 
nephew.  Ilis  Life,  written  by  himself,  with  a Letter  from 
Adam  Smith  giving  an  Account  of  his  Death,  appeared 
in  1777  (Lond.  8vo).  A better  view  of  the  life  and  the 
character  of  Hume  than  this  edition  of  his  autobiogra- 
phy is  given  in  the  A utobiography  of  Alexander  Carlyle 
(Edinb.  and  N.  Y.  I860). 

The  philosophy  of  Hume  underwent  three  revisions, 
with,  however,  scarcely  any  essential  change.  It  has 
been  customary  to  enlarge  upon  the  acumen  and  logical 
precision  of  Hume,  but  these  qualifications  resolve  them- 
selves, on  close  scrutiny,  into  mere  dialectical  subtlety. 
If  his  artifices  imposed  upon  others,  he  was  often  the 
victim  of  them  himself,  and  he  was  crushed  to  the  earth 
beneath  the  ruins  of  the  systems  which  lie  overthrew. 
Hume’s  fundamental  thesis  is  that  all  human  knowledge 
(no  pun  is  designed)  consists  of  impressions  and  ideas. 
Impressions  are  the  direct  perceptions  of  sense : ideas  are 
only  the  relics  or  signs  of  former  impressions.  Impres- 
sions are  always  particular,  and  incapable  of  variation  : 
ideas  are  consequently  the  unalterable  spectres  of  for- 
mer sensations.  The  theory  of  Locke  is  accepted  and 
simplified  by  discarding  the  office  of  reflection.  The 
theory  of  Berkeley  is  accepted  and  expanded  hv  apply- 
ing his  argument  against  matter  to  mind,  and  denying 
all  evidence  of  the  existence  of  either.  The  result  is 
a thoroughly  Pyrrhonistic  doubt.  The  application  of 
these  postulates,  for  postulates  they  are,  generated  the 
whole  philosophy  of  Hume.  There  are  only  two  objects 
of  knowledge — the  relations  of  ideas,  and  the  relations 
of  impressions  or  facts.  The  former  relations  are  con- 
cerned with  unchanging  signs,  and  are  therefore  simple, 
and  readily  discerned  by  the  diseursion  of  thought;  but 
the  latter  always  involve  the  principle  of  cause  and  ef- 
fect, because  due  to  some  exciting  influence.  The  rela- 
tion of  cause  and  effect  is  nothing  more  than  the  habit- 
ual succession  of  events;  because  all  our  complex  con- 
ceptions are  linked  together  only  by  customary  associa- 
tion, and  it  is  impossible  that  particidar  objects  should 
produce  a general  idea.  General  ideas  are,  indeed,  im- 


HUME 


402 


HUME 


possibilities,  for  all  abstractions  are  only  vague  images 
of  particulars.  Ideas  may  represent  either  realities  or 
phenomena,  but  no  investigations  can  reach  beyond  the 
phenomenon  to  the  reality.  This  reality  is  a pure  de- 
lusion—a figment;  it  is  only  the  name  arbitrarily  given 
to  a system  of  connected  impressions  and  ideas.  There 
is  neither  reality  nor  substance,  neither  matter  nor 
mind ; at  least,  there  is  nothing  to  authorize  the  asser- 
tion of  their  existence  except  as  factitious  phenomena. 
The  connection  of  phenomena,  or  of  the  conceptions  cor- 
responding with  them,  is  accepted  as  truth  in  conse- 
quence of  a primordial  tendency  of  the  mind,  called  be- 
lief. This  belief,  however,  imports  nothing  more  than 
the  tenacity  of  certain  notions  in  consequence  of  the 
vivacity  of  the  impressions  by  which  they  are  produced. 
The  credibility  of  facts  is  thus  resolved  into  their  appre- 
hensibility, and  becomes  merely  a question  of  probabil- 
ities. This  constitution  of  belief,  and  this  complexion 
of  knowledge,  result  from  the  mode  in  which  the  mate- 
rials of  thought  are  obtained.  They  are  gathered  by 
observation  and  experience,  and  are  distinguished  into 
two,  and  only  two  classes,  according  to  their  relative 
strength — impressions  and  ideas ; the  former  being  the 
primary  and  more  forcible  perceptions ; the  latter  being 
the  derivative  and  weaker,  and  being  only  copies  of  im- 
pressions. Further  than  this  it  is  impossible  to  carry 
speculation.  The  mind,  the  instrument  of  thought,  lies 
beyond ; but  its  nature  is  discernible  only  in  its  opera- 
tions, and  these  constitute  its  whole  nature  so  far  as  any 
attainable  knowledge  is  concerned.  Thus  the  human 
mind  is  the  mould  and  measure  of  all  knowledge,  and 
yet  that  mind  is  itself  only  a problematical  phenome- 
non. A good-humored  scepticism  is  accordingly  the 
sole  result  of  philosophy. 

From  this  brief  and  imperfect  synopsis  of  Hume’s  doc- 
trine— so  well  summed  up  by  Mackintosh : “ He  aimed  at 
proving,  not  that  nothing  was  known,  but  that  nothing 
could  be  known” — it  is  easy  to  recognise  the  mode  in 
which  he  reached  its  most  startling  applications.  He 
might  assert  the  moral  sense,  but  the  assertion  was  nu- 
gatory, for  there  could  be  no  foundation  for  morals,  nor 
anything  more  valid  than  expediencies  growing  out  of 
particular  impressions  and  their  observed  sequences. 
He  might  admit  the  possibility,  even  the  probability,  of 
divine  intelligence,  but  could  not  tell  whether  it  was 
“ ( ine  or  mair,"  since  revelation  could  not  be  substituted 
for  sensible  perceptions.  The  scheme  had  no  room  for 
the  admission  of  miracles,  as  they  were  unsupported  by 
ordinary  experience,  and  human  testimony  was  falla- 
cious. All  this  mischievous  error  is  the  appropriate 
fruit  of  the  tree  on  which  it  hangs.  Many  refutations 
of  these  positions  have  been  attempted,  and  a vigorous 
warfare  has  been  waged  on  the  principles  supposed  to 
form  the  foundation  of  this  philosophy ; but  too  little 
attention  has  been  paid  to  the  ambiguity  of  the  terms 
employed,  and  to  the  vacillation  with  which  they  are 
used  by  the  conjuror.  A strict  definition  of  “miracles” 
and  “ experience,”  and  a rigid  adherence  to  such  defini- 
tion, will  reduce  the  celebrated  argument  against  mira- 
cles to  a bald  petitio  principii,  or  to  a manifest  absurdity. 
Hume  endeavored  to  prove  that  “no  testimony  is  suffi- 
cient to  establish  a miracle,”  and  the  reasoning  employ- 
ed for  this  purpose  is,  that  “ a miracle  being  a violation 
of  the  laws  of  nature,  which  a firm  and  unalterable  ex- 
perience has  established,  the  proof  against  a miracle, 
from  the  very  nature  of  the  fact,  is  as  entire  as  any  ar- 
gument from  experience  can  be;  whereas  our  experi- 
ence of  human  veracity,  which  (according  to  him)  is  the 
sole  foundation  of  the  evidence  of  testimony,  is  far  from 
being  uniform,  and  can,  therefore,  never  preponderate 
against  that  experience  which  admits  of  no  exception.” 
This  boasted  and  plausible  argument  has,  with  equal 
candor  and  acuteness,  been  examined  by  Dr.  Campbell, 
in  his  Dissertation  on  Miracles , who  justly  observes  that, 
so  far  is  experience  from  being  the  sole  foundation  of 
the  evidence  of  testimony,  that,  on  the  contrary,  testi- 
mony is  the  sole  foundation  of  by  far  the  greater  part 


of  what  Mr.  Hume  calls  firm  and  unalterable  experience; 
and  that  if,  in  certain  circumstances,  we  did  not  give  an 
implicit  faith  to  testimony,  our  knowledge  of  events 
would  be  confined  to  those  which  had  fallen  under  the 
immediate  observation  of  our  own  senses.  Hume  main- 
tained that  a miracle  is  contrary  to  experience;  but,  in 


tion  of  medicine,  and  sometimes  at  the  mere  word  of  a 
prophet,  are  facts  not  inconsistent  with  each  other  in 
the  nature  of  things  themselves,  nor  irreconcilable  ac- 
cording to  our  ideas.  Each  fact  may  arise  from  its  own 
proper  cause ; each  may  exist  independently  of  the  oth- 
er ; and  each  is  known  by  its  own  proper  proof,  whether 
of  sense  or  testimony.  To  pronounce,  therefore,  a mir- 
acle to  be  false,  because  it  is  different  from  ordinary  ex- 
perience, is  only  to  conclude  against  its  existence  from 
the  very  circumstance  which  constitutes  its  specific 
character ; for  if  it  were  not  different  from  ordinary  ex- 
perience, where  would  be  its  singularity?  or  what  proof 
could  be  drawn  from  it  in  attestation  of  a divine  mes- 
sage ? See  M 1 r acles. 

The  importance  and  value  of  Hume’s  political  essays 
have  rarely  beeu  appreciated.  They  are  the  best  of  all 
his  productions,  but  they  have  been  almost  disregarded 
in  the  estimation  of  his  genius.  They  exercised  a con- 
siderable but  unacknowledged  influence  on  the  age  near- 
est his  own.  It  is  impossible  to  ignore  the  obligations 
of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  to  the  essay  on 
the  Idea  of  a Perfect  Commonwealth.  Lord  Brougham 
does  no  more  than  justice  to  the  author  when  he  de- 
clares that  “Mr.  Hume  is,  beyond  doubt,  the  author  of 
the  modern  doctrines  which  now  rule  the  world  of  sci- 
ence, which  are  to  a great  extent  the  guide  of  practical 
statesmen ; ...  for  no  one  deserving  the  name  of  leg- 
islator pretends  to  doubt  the  soundness  of  the  theory.” 
Many  of  the  intellectual  vices,  as  all  the  excellences  of 
Hume — his  speculative  audacity,  his  regard  for  material 
comfort  and  independence,  his  want  of  enthusiasm,  the 
restriction  of  his  view  to  observation  and  experience, 
his  acceptance  of  expediency  as  a principle,  his  acquaint- 
ance with  courts  and  with  affairs  of  state,  his  knowl- 
edge of  history,  his  philosophic  habits,  his  slow  progress 
from  pinched  to  easy  circumstances,  all  favored  profi- 
ciency in  this  branch  of  inquiry.  Many  of  these  char- 
acteristics were,  however,  adverse  to  his  career  as  an 
historian.  True,  in  Hume’s  History  of  England,  the  vig- 
orous, easy,  and  unaffected  style,  the  vivacity  of  the  de- 
lineations, the  arrangement  of  the  topics,  the  disposition 
of  the  personages,  the  variety  and  penetration  of  the  re- 
flections, are  all  admirable.  The  narrative  is  always 
fascinating,  if  the  expression  is  rarely  idiomatic,  some- 
times ungrammatical,  and  often  provincial.  But  to  the 
highest  merits  of  history  it  possesses  no  claim.  It  is 
hastily,  carelessly,  and  inaccurately  composed ; it  is  in- 
curious of  truth  ; it  disregards  authentic  sources  of  in- 
formation from  indolence  and  indifference ; it  is  equally 
partial  and  prejudiced.  In  form,  it  is  a model  of  histor- 
ical art,  but  not  of  the  art  in  its  highest  conception ; in 
substance  and  in  spirit  it  displays  nearly  every  sin  and 
corruption  which  a historian  should  abhor.  His  writ- 
ings called  forth  many  antagonists,  and,  in  fact,  may  be 
said  to  have  given  rise  to  the  Scotch  metaphysical  school 
of  Common  Sense , so  called,  of  which  the  best  exposi- 
tion, and,  at  the  same  time,  the  best  answer  to  Hume’s 
scepticism,  is  to  be  proved  by  Ileid’s  Complete  llo/'b, 
with  Notes  by  Sir  William  Hamilton  (Edinburgh,  1846, 
8vo).  Beattie’s  Essay  on  Truth,  and  Oswald’s  Appeal 
to  Common  Sense  (Edinb.  1772,  2 vols.),  were  also  writ- 
ten in  reply  to  Hume. 

See  The  Philosophical  Works  of  David  Hume,  in- 
cluding all  the  Essays,  and  exhibiting  the  more  important 
Alterations  and  Corrections  in  the  successive  Editions 
published  by  the  A uthor  (Edinburgh  and  Boston,  1854, 
4 vols.  8vo) ; Burton,  Life  and  Letters  of  David  Hume 
(Edinb.  1847,  2 vols.  8vo) ; Letters  of  eminent  Persons 
addressed  to  David  Hume  (Edinb.  and  Lond.  1820,  4to)  j 


IIUMEPvALE 


403 


HUMILITY 


Brougham,  Lives  of  Men  of  Letters  ami  of  Science  (Lon- 
don, 1845, 8vo)  ; Tennemann,  Manual  History  of  Philos. 
§ 376;  English  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Morel  1,  Hist,  of  Moil.  Phi- 
losophy, pt.  i,  cli.  iii ; Sir  Win.  Hamilton,  Led.  on  Meta- 
physics ; Mackintosh,  Hist,  of  Ethical  Philos,  p.  146  sq. ; 
Allibone,  Piet,  of  A uthors , i,  914  sq. ; Lewes,  History  of 
Philos,  ii,  305  sq. ; Tennemann,  Gesch.tl.  Philos,  xi,  425 
sq. ; Bitter,  Christ l.  Philos,  viii.  6, 7,  cli.  ii ; Cousin,  Hist, 
de  la  Philos,  moilerue,  Le<;on  xi;  Farrar,  Crit.  Hist,  of 
Free  Thought,  p.  148  sq. ; Eilinb.  Pec.  Jan.  1847 ; Quart. 
Review,  lxxiii,  292  ,•  Ixxvii,  40 ; 1844,  p.  315  Sq. ; Black- 
wooil's  Magazine  (on  the  argument  against  miracles), 
xlvi,  91  sq.;  June,  1869;  Brit.  Review,  Aug.  1847.  p. 2*8 ; 

1868,  p.  77  sq.;  A lew  Englander,  i,  169, 172;  ii,  212;  iv, 
405 ; xviii,  168 ; Xorth  A merican  Review,  lxxix,  536  sq. ; 
Christ.  Remembrancer,  Oct.  1868,  p.  272;  Brit,  and  For. 
Erang.  Rev.  Oct.  1805,  p.826  sq. ; Contemp.  Review,  May, 

1869,  art.  vi,  reprinted  in  the  Amer.  Presbyt.  Rev.  July, 
1809,  art.  viii.  (G.  F.  H.) 

Humerale.  See  Amice. 

Humiliati,  a monastic  order  founded  about  1134 
by  some  Italian  noblemen  whom  the  emperor  llenry  II 
had  sent  as  hostages  to  Germany.  In  1151  they  were 
transformed  into  canons  of  St.  Benedict,  and  as  such 
received  the  sanction  of  pope  Innocent  III  in  1200.  A 
corresponding  order  of  nuns  was  afterwards  organized 
in  Milan  by  a lady  named  Blassoni  (whence  they  were 
also  called  Xuns  of  Blassoni).  Notwithstanding  the 
numerous  disorders  they  occasioned,  these  nuns  did 
great  good  as  nurses,  etc.;  their  rule  was  adopted  in 
some  ninety-eight  convents,  but  they  were  finally  sup- 
pressed by  Fius  Y in  1571.  A few  convents,  without 
particular  attention  to  dress  and  observances  of  the  old 
order,  still  remain  in  Italy.  The  habit  of  the  order 
consisted  in  a white  dress  and  cloak,  to  which  a white 
scapidary  was  afterwards  added ; also  a small  hood. 
The  nuns’  dress  was  white,  with  gray  under-garments, 
or  vice  versa. — Pierer,  Pincers.  Lex  ikon,  viii,  609;  Felir, 
Allgem.  Gesch.  der  Monchsorden  (Tub.  1845),  p.  132  sq.; 
Helyot,  Gesehichte  d.  Fibster  u.  Ritterorden,  vi,  179  sq. ; 
Asclibach,  Kirchen-Lexikon,  iii,  347 ; Wetzcr  und  Wclte, 
Kirchen-Lex.  v,  396  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Humiliation  of  Christ  (in  the  language  of  the 
older  Reformed  theologians,  the.  status  humiliationis  sice 
exinanitionis),  the  “ humbling  of  himself”  (Phil,  ii,  8)  to 
which  the  son  of  God  submitted  in  accomplishing  the 
redemption  of  mankind.  As  to  the  question  whether 
the  Logos,  at  the  incarnation,  voluntarily  divested  him- 
self of  his  divine  self-consciousness  in  order  to  develop 
himself  in  purely  human  form,  see  Kenosis.  On  the 
question  of  his  descent  into  Ilades,  see  IIeu.,  Descent 
into.  For  monographs  on  this  subject,  see  Yolbeding, 
Index  Programmatnm,  p.  34 ; I lase,  Leben  Jesu,  p.  1 13. 

The  humiliation  of  Christ  is  generally  set  forth  by 
theologians  as  shown  in  his  birth,  his  circumstances, 
temptation,  sufferings,  and  death.  1.  In  his  birth:  he 
was  born  of  a woman — a sinful  woman;  though  he  was 
without  sin  (Gal.  iv,  4) ; of  a poor  woman  (Luke  ii,  7, 
24) ; in  a poor  country  village  (John  i,  46) ; in  a sta- 
ble— an  abject  place  ; of  a nature  subject  to  infirmities 
(lleb.  ii,  9;,  hunger,  thirst,  weariness,  pain.  etc.  2.  In 
his  circumstances : laid  in  a manger  when  he  was  born, 
lived  in  obscurity  for  a long  time,  probably  worked  at 
the  trade  of  a carpenter,  had  not  a place  where  to  lay 
his  head,  and  was  oppressed  with  poverty  while  he  went 
about  preaching  the  Gospel.  3.  It  appeared  in  his  rep- 
utation: he  was  loaded  with  the  most  abusive  railing 
and  calumny  (Isa.  liii),  the  most  false  accusations  (Matt, 
xxvi,  59,  67),  and  the  most  ignominious  ridicule  (Psa. 
xxii,  6;  Matt,  xxii,  68;  John  vii,  35).  4.  In  his  soul: 
he  was  often  tempted  (Matt,  iv,  I,  etc.;  Heb.  ii,  17,  18; 
,vj  15) ; grieved  with  the  reproaches  cast  on  himself,  and 
with  the  sins  and  miseries  of  others  (Heb.  xii,  3 ; Matt, 
xi,  19;  John  xi,  35);  was  burdened  with  the  hidings 
of  his  Father’s  face,  and  the  fears  and  impressions  of  his 
wrath  (Psa.  xxi,  l ; Luke  xxii,  43 ; Heb.  v,  7).  5.  In 


his  death:  scourged,  crowned  with  thorns,  received  gall 
and  vinegar  to  drink,  and  was  crucified  between  two 
thieves  (Luke  xxiii;  John  xix;  Mark  xv,  24,  25).  6. 

In  bis  burial:  not  only  was  be  born  in  another  man’s 
house,  but  he  was  buried  in  another  man’s  tomb;  for  lie 
had  no  tomb  of  his  own,  or  family  vault  to  be  interred 
in  (Isa.  liii,  10,  etc. ; Matt,  xiii,  46).  The  humiliation 
of  Christ  was  necessary,  1.  To  execute  the  purpose  of 
God,  and  covenant  engagements  of  Christ  (Acts  ii,  23, 
24;  I’sa.  xl,  6,  7,  8);  2.  To  fulfil  the  manifold  types 
and  predictions  of  the  Old  Testament;  3.  To  satisfy 
the  broken  law  of  God,  and  procure  eternal  redemption 
for  us  (Isa.  liii;  Heb.  ix,  12,  15)  ; 4.  To  leave  us  an  un- 
spotted pattern  of  holiness  and  patience  under  suffering. 
— Buck,  Theol.  Did.  s.  v.  For  a summary  of  the  views 
of  the  Reformed  theologians  on  the  humiliation  of 
Christ,  see  Ileppe,  Dogmatik  der  Evung.-Reform.  Kirche 
(Flberfeld,  1861),  Locus  xix.  See  also  Ilase,  Evang.- 
Prot.  Dogmatik,  § 155,  156;  Gill,  Body  of  Divinity,  \ ol. 
ii;  Robert  Hall,  Works,  vol.  iii;  Knapp,  Theology,  § 95- 
97.  See  Jesus  Christ. 

Humility  (Lat.  hu militas ; from  humus,  the  ground), 
as  a Christian  grace,  is  the  opposite  of  “ highiniiided- 
ness.”  It  was  unknown  to  the  ancient  heathen  moral- 
ists; the  word  humilis,  with  them,  indicated  baseness 
of  mind. 

1.  The  believer  is  indeed  “exalted"  to  a higher  stage 
of  manhood  by  bis  union  with  Christ,  and  becomes, 
moreover,  a “king  and  priest  unto  God.”  But  lie  never 
“ exalts”  himself.  Whatever  he  has,  he  owes  (and  feels 
that  lie  owes)  not  to  himself,  but  to  the  love  of  God,  bis 
creator;  to  the  grace  of  Christ,  his  redeemer;  and  to 
the  fellowship  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  his  sanctifier.  He 
perceives  all  his  blessings  only  in  God  the  Father,  Son, 
and  Holy  Ghost.  If  he  looks  upon  himself,  he  finds 
that  all  he  is  or  has  is  but  what  has  been  mercifully 
vouchsafed  to  him ; if  he  looks  upon  his  individual  ego, 
apart  from  these  privileges,  he  finds  only  a weak,  ini) in- 
tent personality,  corrupted  by  sin  and  error,  and  un- 
worthy of  such  great  privileges.  If  he  rejoices  in  the 
possession  of  Christian  graces,  he  rejoices  in  them  as 
having  been  given  him  (1  Cor.  iv,  7),  and  considers  at 
the  same  time  the  merits  of  others  (Rom.  xii,  3:  “For 
1 say,  through  the  grace  given  unto  me,  to  every  man 
that  is  among  you,  not  to  think  of  himself  more  highly 
than  he  ought  to  think;  but  to  think  soberly,  according 
as  God  hath  dealt  to  every  man  the  measure  of  faith”). 
Conscious  of  the  gifts  lie  has  received,  he  yet  praises 
the  grace  which  has  given  them  to  him  (Rom.  xv,  17, 
18;  “I  have  therefore  whereof  I may  glory  through 
Jesus  Christ,  in  those  things  which  pertain  to  God.  For 
I will  not  dare  to  speak  of  any  of  those  things  which 
Christ  hath  not  wrought  by  me.”  Phil,  iv,  11-13:  “I 
have  learned,  in  whatsoever  state  I am,  therewith  to  he 
content.  I know  both  how  to  be  abased,  and  1 know- 
how to  abound:  everywhere  and  in  all  things  I am  in- 
structed both  to  be  full  and  to  be  hungry,  both  to  abound 
and  to  suffer  need.  I can  do  all  things  through  Christ 
which  strengtheneth  me."  2 Cor.  iii,  5:  “Not  that  we 
are  sufficient  of  ourselves  to  think  anything  as  of  our- 
selves; hut  our  sufficiency  is  of  God.”  1 Cor.  iii,  5-7  : 
“ Who  then  is  Paul,  and  who  is  A polios,  but  ministers 
by  whom  ye  believed,  even  as  the  Lord  gave  to  every 
man?  I have  planted,  ApoIIos  watered;  but  God  gave 
the  increase.  So  then,  neither  is  he  that  plantcth  any- 
thing, neither  he  that  watcreth;  but  God  that  givetli 
the  increase”).  The  best  Christians  are  but  unprofita- 
ble servants,  and  unworthy  instruments  of  the  grace  of 
God  (Luke  xvii,  10:  “So  likewise  ye,  when  ye  shall 
have  done  all  these  things  which  are  commanded  you, 
say.  We  are  unprofitable  servants:  we  have  done  that 
which  was  our  duty  to  do”).  The  feeding  of  obligation 
for  all  one  is  or  has,  and  of  shortcoming  in  the  use  of 
those  gifts  which  we  cannot  even  praise  ourselves  for 
having  well  employed,  is  a mark  of  humility. 

2.  “To  consider  this  grace  a little  more  particularly, 
it  may  be  observed,  1.  That  humility  does  not  oblige  a 


HUMILITY 


404 


HUNGARY 


man  to  wrong  the  truth  or  himself  by  entertaining  a | 
meaner  or  worse  opinion  of  himself  than  he  deserves. 
2.  Nor  does  it  oblige  a man,  right  or  wrong,  to  give  ’ 
everybody  else  the  preference  to  himself.  A wise  man 
cannot  believe  himself  inferior  to  the  ignorant  multi- 
tude, nor  the  virtuous  man  that  he  is  not  so  good  as 
those  whose  lives  are  vicious.  3.  Nor  does  it  oblige  a 
man  to  treat  himself  with  contempt  in  his  words  or  ac- 
tions: it  looks  more  like  affectation  than  humility  when 
a man  says  such  things  in  his  own  dispraise  as  others 
know,  or  he  himself  believes,  to  be  false;  and  it  is  plain  j 
also  that  this  is  often  done  merely  as  a bait  to  catch 
the  praises  of  others.  Humility  consists,  1.  In  not  at- 
tributing to  ourselves  any  excellence  or  good  which  we 
have  not.  2.  In  not  overrating  anything  wc  do.  3.  In 
not  taking  an  immoderate  delight  in  ourselves.  4.  In 
not  assuming  more  of  the  praise  of  a quality  or  action 
than  belongs  to  us.  5.  In  an  inward  sense  of  our  many 
imperfections  and  sins.  C.  In  ascribing  all  we  have  and 
are  to  the  grace  of  God.  True  humility  will  express 
itself,  1.  By  the  modesty  of  our  appearance;  the  hum- 
ble man  will  consider  his  age,  abilities,  character,  func- 
tion, etc.,  and  act  accordingly ; 2.  By  the  modesty  of 
our  pursuits : we  shall  not  aim  at  anything  above  our 
strength,  but  prefer  a good  to  a great  name.  3.  It  will 
express  itself  by  the  modesty  of  our  conversation  and 
behavior : we  shall  not  be  loquacious,  obstinate,  forward, 
envious,  discontented,  or  ambitious.  The  advantages 
of  humility  are  numerous:  1.  It  is  well-pleasing  to  God 
(1  Pet.  iii,  4).  2.  It  has  great  influence  on  us  in  the 

performance  of  all  other  duties,  praying,  hearing,  con- 
verse, etc.  3.  It  indicates  that  more  grace  shall  be 
given  (James  iv,  6;  Psa.  xxv,  9).  4.  It  preserves  the 
soul  in  great  tranquillity  and  contentment  (Psa.  lxix, 
32,  33).  5.  It  makes  us  patient  and  resigned  under  af- 
flictions (Job  i,  22).  6.  It-  enables  us  to  exercise  mod- 

eration in  everything.  To  obtain  this  excellent  spirit, 
we  should  remember,  1.  The  example  of  Christ  (Phil,  ii, 
C,  7,  8) ; 2.  That  heaven  is  a place  of  humility  (Rev.  v, 
8) ; 3.  That  our  sins  are  numerous,  and  deserve  the 
greatest  punishment  (Lam.  iii,  39);  4.  That  humility 
is  the  way  to  honor  (Prov.  xvi,  18)  ; 5.  That  the  great- 
est promises  of  good  are  made  to  the  humble  (Isa.  lvii, 
15;  lvi,  2;  1 Pet.v,  5;  Psa.  cxlvii,  6 ; Matt,  v,  5)”  (Buck, 
Theol.  Diet.  s.  v.).  “ It  has  been  deemed  a great  para- 

dox in  Christianity  that  it  makes  humility  the  avenue 
to  glory.  Yet  what  other  avenue  is  there  to  wisdom, 
or  even  to  knowledge?  Would  you  pick  up  precious 
truths,  you  must  bend  down  and  look  for  them.  Ev- 
erywhere the  pearl  of  great  price  lies  bedded  in  a shell 
which  has  no  form  or  comeliness.  It  is  so  in  physical 
science.  Bacon  has  declared  it,  Xatura  non  nisi  paren- 
flo  vineitur ; and  the  triumphs  of  science  since  his  days 
have  proved  how  willing  Nature  is  to  be  conquered  by 
those  who  will  obey  her.  It  is  so  in  moral  speculation. 
Wordsworth  has  told  us  the  law  of  his  own  mind,  the 
fulfilment  of  which  has  enabled  him  to  reveal  a new 
world  of  poetry:  1 1 'isdom  is  ofttimes  nearer  token  we 
stoop  than  token  we  soar.  That  it  is  so  likewise  in  re- 
ligion we  are  assured  by  those  most  comfortable  words, 
Except  ye  become  as  little  children,  ye  shall  not  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  heaven.  Moreover,  the  whole  intercourse 
between  man  and  man  may  be  seen,  if  we  look  at  it 
closely,  to  be  guided  and  regulated  by  the  same  per- 
vading principle  ; and  that  it  ought  to  be  so  is  general- 
ly recognised,  instinctively,  at  least,  if  not  consciously. 
As  I have  often  heard  said  by  him,  who,  among  all  the 
persons  I have  conversed  with  to  the  edification  of  my 
understanding,  had  the  keenest  practical  insight  into 
human  nature,  and  best  knew  the  art  of  controlling  and 
governing  men,  and  winning  them  over  to  their  good — 
the  moment  anybody  is  satisfied  with  himself,  every- 
body else  becomes  dissatisfied  with  him ; whenever  a 
person  thinks  much  of  himself,  all  other  people  give 
over  thinking  about  him.  Thus  it  is  not  alone  in  the 
parable  that  he  who  takes  the  highest  room  is  turned 
down  with  shame  to  the  lowest,  while  he  who  sits 


down  in  the  lowest  room  is  bid  to  go  up  higher.”  See 
Hare,  Guesses  at  Truth , i,  242 ; Krehl,  Ilandworterbuch 
des  N.  Test.,  s.  v.  Demuth  ; Grove,  Moral  Philosophy,  ii, 
286;  Whatelv,  Dangers  to  Christian  Faith , p.  38;  Con- 
ybeare,  Sermons,  p.  141. 

Humphrey,  Lawrence,  an  English  Protestant  di- 
vine and  philologian,  was  born  at  Newport  - Pagnell, 
Buckinghamshire,  about  1527.  He  was  educated  at 
Cambridge,  where  he  applied  himself  especially  to  the 
classics.  After  becoming  fellow  of  Magdalen  College, 
Oxford,  and  professor  of  Greek  in  the  university,  he 
entered  the  Church.  In  1555  he  left  England  in  con- 
sequence of  the  persecutions  to  which  Protestants  were 
subject,  and  remained  a while  in  Zurich.  After  the 
death  of  queen  Mary  he  returned  home  and  resumed 
his  professorship,  lie  became  successively  professor 
of  theology  at  Queen’s  College  in  1560,  president  of 
Magdalen  College,  Oxford,  in  1561,  dean  of  Glouces- 
ter in  1570,  and  dean  of  Winchester  in  1580.  He  died 
February  1, 1589.  lie  was  a man  of  conciliatory  man- 
ners, and  of  great  piety  and  learning ; of  great  purity 
of  character,  moderate  and  conscientious,  and  to  this 
he  owed  his  last  preferments,  lie  was  a good  linguist, 

! and  a very  skilful  controvcrtist.  He  wrote  Epistola  de 
Greeds  Uteris  el  Homed  lectione  et  inviteetione  (printed  in 
the  first  part  of  Junius’s  Cornucopice,  Basle,  1558,  fol.)  : 
— De  religionis  conservations  et  reformat ione,  deque  Pri- 
matu  Degum  (Basle,  1559,  8vo):  — Obaelias  I’ropheta, 
llebraice  et  Latine,  et  Philo  11  De  Judice,"  Greece  et  Lee- 
tine , at  the  end  of  the  preceding  treatise : — Optimeetes, 
sive  de  nvbilitate  ej usque  antiquei  origine,  naturee,  offeciis, 
ilisdplina  (Basle,  1561,  8vo,  with  a Latin  translation  of 
Philo’s  treatise  De  Xobiliteete')  : — Joannis  Juelli,  episcopi 
SalisburiensiSfVita  et  Mors  (London,  1573,  4to)  \-Jesu- 
itismi  peers  prima,  sive  praxis  Domanee  curice  contra 
respublicees  et  principes  (Lond.  1582,  8vo): — Jesuitismi 
peers  secunda,  Puriteeno  Papismi  seu  doctrines  Jesuiticce 
eeliquot  reetionibus  eeb  Edm.  Campieeno  compreleensee  el  a 
Johetnne  Dierceo  defensee  Confeetatio  (London,  1584, 8vo), 
etc.  Sec  Wood,  A thence  Oxonienses  (vol.  i) ; Chalmers, 
Gen.  Biog.  Dictionary ; C’hauffepie,  Did.  Hist.;  Hoefer,' 
Xouv.  Biog.  Generate , xxv,  543;  Allibone,  Diet,  of  Au- 
thors, i,  918;  Neal,  History  of  the  Puriteens  (see  Index) ; 
Hook,  Eccles.  Biography , vi,  207  sq.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Eum'tah  (Heb.  Chumtah’,  prob.  from  the 

Syr.  fortress,  otherwise  place  of  lizards;  Sept.  'Appeara 
v.  r.  Evpd  and  Xappard ; Yulg.  Athmeethd),  a town  in 
the  mountains  of  Judah,  mentioned  between  Apliokah 
and  Hebron  (Josh,  xv,  54),  apparently  in  the  district 
lying  immediately  west  of  Hebron  (Keil,  Comment,  ad 
loc.).  It  is  not  mentioned  by  any  other  ancient  writer 
(Reland,  Palaest.  p.  723)  except  Eusebius  and  Jerome 
( Ononiast . s.  v.  ’Aparei,  Ammatha).  There  is  some  re- 
semblance between  the  name  and  that  of  Kimath  (K<- 
peiff),  one  of  the  places  added  in  the  Yat.  text  of  the 
Sept-  to  the  list  in  the  Heb.  text  of  1 Sam.  xxx,  27-31. 
It  possibly  corresponds  with  the  ruined  site  marked  as 
Seebzin  (or  Ramet  el-Almeh)  on  Van  de  Yelde’s  Map  at  If 
miles  north  of  Hebron,  just  west  of  the  Jerusalem  road. 

Hundred  (as  a division  of  the  Heb.  people).  See 
Host. 

Huneric.  See  Yandals. 

Hungarian  Confession  ( Confessio  Hungarica ), 
the  Confession  of  Faith  of  the  Reformed  Church  in 
Hungary.  It  was  drawn  up  in  1557  and  1558  by  the 
Synod  of  C'zenger  (hence  also  called  Confessio  Czengeri- 
eenet),  and  published  in  1570  in  Debreczin.  It  is  strong- 
ly Calvinistie,  especially  in  the  doctrine  of  the  Lord’s 
Supper,  and  it  was  on  that  account  not  adopted  by  the 
Reformed  churches  of  Poland.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Hungary,  a kingdom  in  Eastern  Europe,  which  has 
for  several  centuries  been  united  with  the  empire  of 
Austria.  It  has  82,839  square  miles,  and  its  population 
was,  according  to  the  census  of  1857,  9,900,785.  Con- 
nected with  it,  as  dependencies  of  the  crown  of  Hungary, 


HUNGARY 


405 


HUNGARY 


are  Transylvania  (q.  v.),  Croatia,  and  Slavonia.  This 
whole  division,  which  is  sometimes  called  the  Trans- 
Leithanian  division  of  the  empire,  sometimes  simply 
Hungary,  has  124,000  square  miles,  and,  according  to 
the  official  census  of  1857, 13,708,813  inhabitants.  Ac- 
cording to  the  official  census  of  Dec.  31,  1869,  the  total 
population  of  the  countries  subject  to  the  Hungarian 
crown  amounted  to  15,429,238,  cf  which  Hungary  proper 
had  about  11,109,000;  Transylvania,  2,109,000;  Croatia 
and  Slavonia,  1,015,000;  the  Military  Frontier,  1,195,000. 

1.  History. — The  Hungarians,  a Scythian  tribe,  were, 
as  it  seems,  akin  to  and  allies  of  the  Cliazari,  who  in  the 
first  century  of  the  Christian  a?ra  had  left  their  original 
seats,  the  plateaus  of  Central  Asia,  and  had  founded  in 
the  course  of  time  a powerful  empire  on  the  Tauric  pen- 
insula. At  the  close  of  the  9th  century  the  Hungarians 
(Magyars)  were  living  on  the  north-eastern  frontier  of 
this  empire,  which  they  defended  under  their  own  chiefs 
against  the  powerful  neighboring  nations.  After  the 
destruction  of  this  empire,  the  Magyars,  who  were  un- 
able to  resist  singly  the  onset  of  other  tribes,  crossed  the 
Dnieper,  and  settled  (884)  near  the  month  of  the  Dan- 
ube, between  the  Rivers  Hugh  and  Szereth.  The  impe- 
rial throne  of  Constantinople  was  at  that  time  occupied 
by  Leo  the  Wise,  who  called  the  bravery  of  his  new 
neighbors  to  his  aid  against  Simeon,  the  chief  of  the 
Bulgarians.  The  call  was  cheerfully  accepted  by  Ar- 
pad,  the  son  of  the  Magyar  duke  Alinos.  Simeon  was 
conquered,  and  his  country  laid  waste.  The  renown  of 
the  Magyars  soon  induced  king  Arnulf,  of  Germany,  to 
ask  them  for  aid  against  Szvatoplugk,  the  grand  prince 
of  Moravia.  Again  they  accepted  the  invitation,  en- 
tered Upper  Pannonia,  which  then  belonged  to  the  Mo- 
ravian empire,  and  obtained  a complete  victory;  after 
that  they  returned  to  their  homes.  These,  however, 
had  in  the  meanwhile  been  invaded  and  terribly  devas- 
tated by  the  Bulgarians,  and  the  Magyars  therefore  con- 
cluded to  settle  permanently  in  Pannonia,  from  which 
they  had  just  returned  as  victors.  The  occupation  of 
the  country  began  in  894 ; it  was  completed  in  900. 
The  country,  distributed  among  seven  tribes  and  108 
families,  was  converted  into  a military  state.  Their 
bravery  and  their  renown  caused  many  people  of  the 
districts  which  they  had  traversed,  and  many  soldiers 
of  foreign  countries,  to  join  them.  Thus  strengthened, 
they  were  able  to  undertake  expeditions  as  far  as  the 
North  Sea,  the  South  of  France  into  Italy,  and  to  the 
Black  Sea.  But  repeated  defeats  by  the  kings  and  em- 
perors of  Germany  put  a stop  to  their  conquests  and 
gave  a different  direction  to  their  energies.  The  fron- 
tiers of  their  new  country  were  more  definitely  marked 
and  fortified,  and  many  more  foreign  colonists  drawn 
into  the  country. 

The  large  number  of  Christian  slaves,  the  connec- 
tion with  the  emperors  of  Constantinople,  but  in  par- 
ticular the  efforts  of  duke  Geysa  (972-997),  and  of  his 
Christian  wife  Sarolta  (Caroline),  gradually  prepared 
the  introduction  of  Christianity.  Geysa  made  peace 
with  all  his  neighbors,  and  at  the  diet  which  he  assem- 
bled recommended  a hospitable  reception  of  foreign  vis- 
itors and  the  introduction  of  Christianity.  Geysa  him- 
self was  baptized  by  bishop  Pilgrin  of  Passau,  who,  even 
during  the  reign  of  Tacsony,  the  father  of  Geysa,  had 
begun  to  show  a warm  interest  in  the  conversion  of 
Hungary.  Besides  him,  the  emperor  Otto  1 and  bishop 
Adalbert  of  Prague  showed  a great  zeal  for  the  Chris- 
tianization of  the  Magyars.  Thus  the  Roman  Catholic 
Chinch  obtained  the  ascendency  over  the  few  missions 
which  under  former  chiefs  had  been  established  by  mis- 
sionaries of  the  Greek  Church.  Adalbert,  in  994,  bap- 
tized, at  Gran,Voik,  the  son  of  Geysa,  who  received  the 
name  of  Stephen.  Immediately  after  his  accession  to 
the  throne,  Stephen  made  it  the  first  object  of  his  nde 
to  secure  the  complete  victory  of  Christianity;  nor  did 
he  hesitate  for  this  end  to  employ  force.  He  issued  at 
once  an  order  that  all  Magyars  must  receive  baptism, 
and  that  all  Christian  slaves  must  be  set  free.  This 


decree  filled  those  Magyars  who  were  opponents  of 
Christianity  with  the  utmost  indignation  against  the 
young  king  and  against  the  Germans  who  surrounded 
him.  lvuppa,  a relative  of  Stephen  and  duke  of  the 
Snmegians,  put  himself  at  the  head  of  the  malcontents, 
but  at  Veszprim  he  was  totally  defeated  and  killed; 
and  henceforth  all  serious  opposition  to  the  Christiani- 
zation of  Hungary  ceased.  Stephen  himself  traversed 
the  country  in  every  direction,  encouraging  the  people 
to  become  Christians,  and  threatening  with  severe  pun- 
ishments all  who  would  refuse  to  obey  this  order.  He 
established  schools  in  his  residence,  called  many  monks 
as  teachers,  established  ten  richly-endowed  bishoprics, 
introduced  the  tithe,  and  made  the  prelates  the  first  es- 
tate of  the  empire.  For  these  labors  Stephen  received 
from  pope  Sylvester  II  a crown,  which  has  since  then 
constituted  the  upper  part  of  the  sacra  reyni  Ilungaruv. 
corona , while  its  lower  part  consists  of  a crown  which 
the  Greek  emperor  Manuel  Dukas  gave  to  Geysa.  With 
this  crown  Stephen  received  from  the  pope  a patriarch- 
al cross  and  the  title  of  apostolic  king.  Thus  Hun- 
gary became  a kingdom,  the  chief  supports  of  which, 
according  to  the  Constitution  given  by  Stephen,  were 
to  be  the  clergy  and  the  nobility.  The  following  kings 
enlarged  the  privileges  of  the  clergy,  who  thus,  in  the 
course  of  time,  became  richer  than  in  any  other  Eu- 
ropean country.  After  the  death  of  Stephen  several 
more  efforts  were  made  by  the  native  pagan  party  to 
displace  both  Christianity  and  the  German  party  at  the 
court,  which  was  regarded  as  the  chief  support  of  Chris- 
tianity. But  all  these  attempts  utterly  failed,  and  pa- 
ganism soon  became  extinct.  The  frontiers  of  the  em- 
pire were  enlarged  by  the  conquest  of  Croatia  and  Sla- 
vonia in  1089,  and  that  of  Dalmatia  in  1102;  at  home 
the  clergy  extorted  from  the  weak  Andrew  II  (1202- 
35)  a favorable  Concordat.  In  1437  Hungary  fell  for 
the  first  time  to  the  house  of  Hapsburg.  In  1526  the 
line  of  independent  kings  of  Hungary  became  extinct 
by  the  death  ofking  Louis  II.  A large  portion  of  Hun- 
gary was  subjugated  by  the  Turks,  and  remained  a Turk- 
ish province  for  more  than  a century;  the  remainder 
was  long  rent  by  civil  ivars,  which  ended  in  connecting 
the  country  permanently  with  the  crown  of  Hapsburg. 

YtTien  the  first  knowledge  of  the  Reformation  reached 
Hungary,  the  Diet  of  1528  issued  a cruel  decree  that 
the  Lutherans  and  all  favorers  of  Lutheranism  should 
be  captured  and  burned.  But  amidst  the  disorder  which 
folio-wed  the  death  of  Louis  II  the  Reformation  spread, 
and  gained  a firm  footing  in  spite  of  the  cruel  prohib- 
itory laws.  Probably  the  first  to  preach  in  favor  of  the 
Reformation  was  Thomas  Prenssner,  of  Kaesmark,  who 
is  said  to  have  publicly  announced  his  concurrence  in 
the  views  of  Luther.  A great  impression  was  made  by 
the  Augsburg  Confession,  as  the  grandees  who  accom- 
panied king  Ferdinand  to  the  Diet  of  Augsburg  brought 
back  a favorable  account  of  the  Lutheran  Reformation. 
Several  scholars  went  to  Wittenberg  to  study  under 
Luther,  among  whom  were  Devav,  Quendel,  Stockel, 
Andrew  Fischer,  Leutscher,  Bogner,  Transylvanus,  1 Ja- 
dan,  Siklosy,  and  Kopaczy.  The  further  progress  of 
the  Reformation  was  very  quiet,  only  a few  bishops  amt 
magnates  trying  to  employ  force.  Prince  /apolya, 
who  contested  with  king  Ferdinand  the  possession  of 
Hungary,  issued  a severe  edict  against  the  Protestants, 
and  the  parish  priest  of  Lihetlien  was  in  1527  burned  as 
a favorer  o'f  the  Reformation ; but  as  the  majority  of 
the  towns,  nearly  the  whole  nobility,  and  many  of  the 
most  powerful  magnates  were  favorable  to  the  Refor- 
mation, the  persecution  of  Protestantism  soon  ceased. 
Many  of  the  priests  then  joined  the  Reformation  with 
their  entire  congregations ; in  other  instances  the  con- 
gregations waited  until  the  death  of  the  Catholic  pastor, 
and  then  called  an  evangelical  successor.  The  evan- 
gelical pastors  continued  for  a long  time  to  pay  tribute 
to  the  bishops,  and  were  protected  by  the  latter  in  their 
rights  and  privileges,  provided  they  woidd  remain  faith- 
ful to  the  Augsburg  Confession,  and  not  join  the  detest- 


HUNGARY 


406 


HUNGARY 


ed  Sacramentarians  (Calvinists).  In  1549  the  royal 
free  cities  of  Upper  Hungary  had  tlieir  Confession  of 
Faith  drawn  up  by  Leonhard  Stockel  in  the  sense  of  the 
Augsburg  Confession,  and  presented  it  to  king  Ferdi- 
nand. This  Confession  was  approved  and  continued  not 
only  by  the  king,  but  also  by  the  primate  Nicholas  Olah 
and  the  bishop  Verantius,  with  several  Catholic  prel- 
ates, as  bishop  Keeherv  of  Yeszprim,  bishop  Thurzo  of 
Neutra,  and  bishop  Dudicli,  who  had  attended  the  Coun- 
cil of  Trent  as  representatives  of  Ferdinand.  King  Fer- 
dinand himself  appeared  to  be  favorable  to  the  Protes- 
tants, for  he  permitted  the  election  of  the  foremost  pa- 
tron of  the  Reformation,  Thomas  Nadasdy,  as  palatine 
of  Hungary.  Still  more  auspicious  was  the  reign  of  the 
mild  Maximilian,  who  tried  to  gain  the  Protestants  by 
wise  concessions.  Thus  they  found  time  to  develop 
their  Church  Constitution,  to  hold  synods,  and  to  regu- 
late their  Church  and  school  affairs  under  the  protection 
of  the  evangelical  magnates.  A large  majority  of  the 
inhabitants  belonged  to  the  evangelical  faith ; only 
three  magnates  continued  to  be  Roman  Catholic,  and 
probably  Protestantism  would  have  forever  established 
its  ascendency  had  not  the  Protestants  themselves  been 
split  into  Lutherans  and  Calvinists,  who  seemed  to  hate 
each  other  more  than  other  religious  denominations. 
Thus  weakened  by  internal  dissensions,  the  Protestants 
suffered  greatly  from  the  persecutions  which  began 
against  them  under  the  reign  of  Rudolphus.  The  Jes- 
uits, who  had  come  for  a short  time  to  Hungary  in  1561, 
at  the  invitation  of  the  primas  Nicholas  Olah,  hut  had 
been  unable  to  do  any  thing  under  the  tolerant  reign 
of  Maximilian,  returned,  and  began  to  display  a great 
activity  fur  the  restoration  of  the  old  Church.  Jacob 
Barbian  of  Belgioso  took  from  the  Protestants  a num- 
ber of  churches,  and  the  complaints  of  the  people  against 
these  acts  of  violence  remained  without  effect.  Eu- 
• dolphus,  instead  of  redressing  the  grievances,  made  to 
the  laws  passed  by  the  Hungarian  Diet  an  addition, 
which  declared  the  grievances  of  the  Protestants  to  be 
unfounded  and  their  conduct  scandalous,  and  which  con- 
firmed all  the  former  laws  against  them.  Boczkai,  the 
prince  of  Transylvania,  rose  against  this  law,  and  was 
joined  every  where  by  malcontents.  Soon  he  was  mas- 
ter of  all  Transylvania  and  of  Northern  Hungary. 
Basta,  the  imperial  general,  was  defeated,  and  Rudol- 
phus compelled  to  conclude,  in  1606,  the  peace  of  Vien- 
na, which  assured  the  Protestants  throughout  the  em- 
pire of  religious  liberty,  and  promised  that  the  emperor 
would  never  allow  any  violation  of  this  provision.  To 
the  provision  was,  however,  added  this  clausula,  “with- 
out any  injury  to  the  Catholic  religion.”  When  the 
articles  of  the  Vienna  treaty  of  peace  were,  in  1608, 
read  to  the  Diet  at  Pressburg,  the  bishop  of  Yeszprim 
protested  in  the  name  of  the  clergy  against  the  religious 
liberty  granted  to  the  Protestants;  but  the  firmness  of 
archduke  Matthias  overcame  the  opposition  of  all  the 
Catholics,  and  the  treaty  of  peace  was  unanimously  rat- 
ified hv  all  save  cardinal  Forgaez.  Nevertheless,  Eu- 
dolphus  declared  the  resolutions  of  the  Diet  invalid. 
This  breach  of  faith  cost  him  the  throne ; his  brother 
Matthias  was  crowned  king  of  Hungary  on  Novem- 
ber 8,  1608.  two  days  after  the  evangelical  count  Illes- 
hazy  had  been  elected  palatine  by  a large  majority. 
Through  the  liberality  of  Illeshazy,  who  was  in  posses- 
sion of  immense  riches,  the  Protestants  received  a large 
number  of  churches  and  schools.  Illeshazy  died  the 
next  year  (May  6, 1609) ; but  his  successor,  count  Ceorge 
Thurzo,  was  an  equally  zealous  Protestant.  Under  his 
presidency,  a synod  was  held  in  March,  1610,  at  Sillein, 
in  the  comitat  of  Trentshin,  at  which  the  Protestant 
churches  were  organized  into  three  superintendentships, 
the  duties  of  superintendents,  seniors,  and  inspectors  de- 
fined, and  many  rules  adopted  for  the  regulation  of 
Church  government  and  Church  discipline.  The  reso- 
lutions of  the  synod,  which  were  printed  by  order  of  the 
palatine,  and  circulated  among  all  the  Protestant  con- 
gregations of  the  eoiuitry,  aroused  the  Catholic  clergy 


to  extraordinary  efforts  against  the  further  spreading 
of  Protestantism.  Unfortunately,  palatine  Thurzo  died 
soon,  and  the  Catholics  found  a leader  of  rare  ability  in 
the  Jesuit  Pazmany,  who  succeeded  in  causing  within 
a short  time  more  than  fifty  of  the  first  noble  families 
to  return  to  the  Catholic  Church.  They,  in  turn,  com- 
pelled hundreds  of  thousands  of  their  subjects  to  leave 
the  Protestant  churches.  At  the  diets  the  Roman  Cath- 
olics again  obtained  the  ascendency ; the  resolutions  of 
1608  were,  it  is  true,  several  times  confirmed,  but  the 
government  did  not  respect  the  decrees  of  the  diets, 
and  the  persecutions  of  Protestants  continued.  For  a 
time  the  Reformed  prinee  Bethlen,  of  Transylvania,  ex- 
torted by  his  victories  from  king  Ferdinand  II  promises 
of  redress,  hut  none  of  these  promises  were  kept.  At 
the  Diet  of  1637,  the  Protestants,  under  the  name  of  the 
Evangelical  Estates  ( Status  et  Onlines  Erangeliei ),  pre- 
sented their  grievances  in  writing;  but  the  Diet  con- 
tented itself  with  a new  confirmation  of  former  laws, 
and  gave  to  the  Jesuits  the  first  landed  property  in  the 
kingdom.  The  discontent  of  the  Protestants  was  sup- 
i ported  by  Racoezy,  prince  of  Transylvania,  who  invaded 
Hungary  at  the  head  of  10,000  men,  and  finally  com- 
pelled Ferdinand  III  to  conclude  the  peace  of  Linz, 
1645,  in  which  the  Protestants  again  obtained  the  free 
exercise  of  their  religion,  the  use  of  bells,  and  the  per- 
mission to  build  towers  and  to  keep  their  own  cemeter- 
ies. But  the  Catholic  clergy  refused  to  recognise  the 
provisions  of  this  treaty,  and  soon  the  reign  of  Leopold  1 
brought  on  the  sorest  trials  for  Protestantism.  The 
complaints  of  the  Protestants  regarding  the  constant 
violations  of  their  rights  were  not  listened  to ; they 
were  ordered  not  to  bring  their  grievances  before  the 
Diet,  but  before  the  courts.  Several  Protestant  noble- 
men entered,  therefore,  into  a conspiracy  for  the  separa- 
tion of  Hungary  from  Austria,  hut  the  plot  was  discov- 
ered, and  all  who  had  taken  part  in  it  sentenced  to  death. 
The  Jesuits  used  this  as  a pretext  for  the  most  violent, 
measures  against  Protestants.  Archbishop  Szelepezcn- 
vi  summoned  the  evangelical  ministers  of  the  mountain 
towns  before  his  court  at  Pressburg,  where  they  were 
charged  with  being  accomplices  of  the  Turks,  with  se- 
ditious sermons,  revolutionary  sympathies,  abuse  of  the 
Catholic  host,  opening  of  the  prisons,  sale  of  Catholic 
priests  to  the  Turks.  The  preachers  were  all  sentenced 
to  death ; but  the  emperor  pardoned  them  on  the  con- 
dition that  they  should  renounce  their  titles  of  preach- 
ers and  pastors,  not  discharge  the  duties  connected  with 
such  a title,  keep  no  schools,  not  preach  either  secretly 
or  publicly,  and  sign  a declaration  acknowledging  their 
guilt.  Whosoever  should  refuse  to  sign  this  declaration 
must  leave  Hungary  within  thirty  days.  In  the  next 
year  all  the  evangelical  preachers,  even  those  who  lived 
under  Turkish  dominion,  were  summoned  to  Pressburg. 
The  latter  did  not  come;  hut  those  living  under  the  seep- 
' tre  of  Leopold  made  their  appearance,  250  of  the  Confes- 
sion of  Augsburg  and  57  of  the  Helvetic  Confession.  The 
majority  signed  the  demanded  declaration ; those  who  re- 
[ fused  were  imprisoned ; the  most  obstinate,  about  29  in 
i number,  were  sent  to  the  galleys.  The  Swedish  govern- 
ment, the  dukes  of  Saxony,  Brandenburg,  and  Luneburg, 
remonstrated  with  the  emperor  in  favor  of  the  prisoners, 
but  not  until  about  a year  later  did  they  recover  their 
j liberty.  A great  massacre  of  Protestants  was  soon  after 
(1657)  committed  at  Eperies  by  the  imperial  general  Ca- 
I raffa,  who  pretended  to  have  discovered  a wide-spread 
conspiracy,  and  caused  the  execution  of  a large  number 
of  prominent  men,  among  whom  were  many  of  the  lead- 
ers of  the  Protestants.  The  peace  of  Carlovies,  in  1699, 
restored  to  Hungary  all  the  districts,  with  the  only  ex- 
ception of  that  of  Temesvar,  which  for  more  than  a 
hundred  years  had  been  under  the  ride  of  the  Turks. 
At  home,  the  continued  discontent  of  the  people  led  to 
a new  insurrection,  headed  by  Francis  Racoezy,  which 
was  suppressed  in  1711  by  the  peace  of  Szat  lunar. 
This  peace  again  reaffirmed  the  rights  which  had  been 
1 granted  to  Protestants.  New  complaints  of  disturb- 


HUNGARY 


407 


HUNGARY 


ances  of  Protestant  worship  induced  Charles  YI  (as 
king  of  Hungary,  Charles  III)  to  appoint  a royal  com- 
mission, on  the  recommendation  of  which  it  was  decreed 
that  the  evangelical  preachers  should  be  superintended 
bv  Catholic  archdeacons;  that  the  ministerial  functions 
of  the  preachers  of  the  two  Protestant  Confessions  must 
be  limited  to  those  churches  (at  most  two  in  each  comi- 
tat)  in  which  a resolution  of  the  Diet  of  Oedenburg,  held 
in  1681,  expressly  authorized  the  Protestants  to  hold 
divine  service ; that  the  Protestants,  when  elected  to 
office,  must  take  their  oaths  with  an  invocation  of  the 
blessed  Virgin  and  all  the  saints ; and  that  all  Protes- 
tants must  take  part  in  the  celebration  of  the  Catholic 
festivals  and  in  the  public  processions.  The  establish- 
ment of  a royal  chancellory  and  stadtholdership,  which 
in  the  name  of  the  sovereign  had  to  promulgate  and 
execute  the  imperial  laws,  was  unfavorable  to  the  Prot- 
estants, as  a majority  of  the  councillors  were  taken  from 
the  ranks  of  the  bishops,  magnates,  and  noblemen. 
Thus  the  Protestants  were  annoyed  by  this  board  in 
every  possible  way.  Conversions  from  Catholicism  to 
Protestantism  were  strictly  forbidden;  Catholics  were 
forbidden  to  attend  a Protestant  school,  and  the  Protes- 
tant youth  to  study  at  foreign  schools;  members  of  one 
Protestant  denomination  were  not  allowed  to  visit  the 
divine  service  of  the  other;  Protestant  books  were  sub- 
mitted 10  Protestant  censors,  tlicir  trials  of  divorce  to 
Catholic  judges.  Maria  Theresa  expressed  personal 
sympathy  with  the  oppressed  condition  of  Protestants, 
but  pretended  to  be  unable  to  do  any  thing  for  them 
on  account  of  her  coronation  oath  and  the  laws  of  the 
country.  An  essential  amelioration  in  the  condition 
of  Protestants  was  effected  under  Joseph  1 1,  who,  in  1781 , 
by  the  edict  of  toleration,  granted  to  all  the  Protestants 
of  his  dominions  freedom  of  conscience  and  of  religion, 
and  the  right  of  public  worship.  Now  a new  asra  in 
the  history  of  Protestantism  began.  A large  number  of 
new  churches  and  schools  were  established,  hundreds  of 
clergymen  were  called.  Protestants  became  eligible  to 
every  office  ; the  religious  oath  was  abolished ; the  Prot- 
estant superintendents  were  allowed  to  visit  the  church- 
es, and  persons  living  in  mixed  marriages  to  bring  up 
their  children  in  the  evangelical  faith,  as  well  as  to  se- 
lect for  them  any  school  they  chose ; the  press  was  to  be 
free  and  unfettered.  Leopold  II  also  showed  a lirm  dis- 
position to  be  just  toward  the  Protestants.  The  Diet  of 
1701  was  petitioned  by  the  Protestants  to  sanction  the 
royal  decree  which  had  granted  them  religious  freedom. 
Notwithstanding  a violent  opposition  on  the  part  of  the 
bishops,  the  diet  granted  the  reqnest,  chiefly  moved  by 
the  eloquent  plea  of  the  Catholic  count  Aloysins  llatthy- 
fini.  Accordingly,  the  2Gtli  article  of  religion  of  1791  pro- 
vides that  the  Protestants  of  both  Confessions  shall  enjoy 
the  free  exercise  of  their  religion;  that  they  shall  not  be 
forced  to  attend  processions,  masses,  or  other  ceremonies; 
that  in  ecclesiastical  affairs  they  shall  be  subordinate 
only  to  their  own  ecclesiastical  superiors;  that  they 
may  build  churches  and  schools,  elect  preachers  and 
teachers;  that  they  shall  not  have  to  contribute  to  the 
building  of  Catholic  churches  and  schools.  The  Prot- 
estants at  once,  hastened  to  perfect  their  ecclesiastical 
constitution.  In  the  same  year  (1791),  a synod  of  both 
the  Protestant  churches  was  held  at  Ofcn  and  Pesth,  at 
which  long-pending  controversies  between  the  clergy 
and  prominent  laymen  were  settled,  and  the  establish- 
ment of  a general  Consistory  proposed.  The  protest  of 
a few  evangelical  clergymen,  as  well  as  that  of  the 
Catholic  clergy  and  the  early  death  of  the  sovereign, 
prevented  the  resolutions  of  this  diet  from  receiving 
the  royal  sanction.  During  the  reign  of  Francis  I the 
rights  of  the  Protestants  were  often  encroached  upon, 
especially  in  the  case  of  mixed  marriages.  The  Diet 
of  1843  to  1844  interfered,  however,  in  favor  of  the  Prot- 
estants, and  enlarged,  in  its  provisions  concerning  mix- 
ed marriages  and  the  right  of  joining  the  Protestant 
Church,  the  law  of  1791.  The  fulness  of  equal  rights 
was  finally  secured  to  Protestants  by  a law  of  1848.  In 


consequence  of  the  failure  of  the  Hungarian  War  of  In- 
dependence in  1848  and  1849,  these  rights  were,  how- 
ever, for  a time  suspended.  The  imperial  command- 
er, baron  Ilaynau,  himself  a Protestant,  abolished  the 
offices  of  general  inspector  and  the  district  inspectors 
for  the  Church  of  the  Augsburg  Confession,  and  that 
of  curators  for  the  Church  of  the  Helvetic  Confession. 
The  holding  of  conventions  was  forbidden,  and  only 
after  a time  the  holding  of  u senioral  conventions”  al- 
lowed when  attended  by  an  imperial  commissioner. 
After  repeated  petitions  and  representations,  the  minis- 
ter of  public  worship  and  instruction,  on  August  21, 
185G,  laid  the  draft  of  a law  on  the  reorganization  of 
the  Constitution  of  the  Protestant  churches  before  the  su- 
perintendents. The  latter  declined  this  draft,  and  unan- 
imously asked  for  the  convocation  of  the  General  Synod. 
On  September  1, 1859,  an  imperial  patent  was  published, 
which  undertook,  on  the  ground  of  the  law  of  1791,  to 
give  to  the  Protestant  churches  a new  Constitution. 
Nearly  the  entire  evangelical  Church  of  both  Confes- 
sions protested  against  the  legality  of  this  imperial 
patent,  claiming  for  the  Church  the  right  to  make  her- 
self the  necessary  changes  in  her  Constitution  on  the 
legal  basis  of  the  law  of  1791.  Only  a few  congrega- 
tions of  the  Lutheran  Slovacks,  numbering  together 
about  54  congregations,  accepted  the  patent.  All  the 
efforts  to  break  the  opposition  of  the  Protestants  failed; 
and  when,  in  18G7,  the  Austrian  government  concluded 
to  make  peace  with  Hungary,  the  patent  of  1859,  and 
all  the  decrees  accompanying  it,  were  repealed.  The 
two  Protestant  churches  were  assured  that  they  would 
be  at  liberty  to  rearrange  their  Church  matters  in  a con- 
stitutional way.  At  the  General  Convention  of  the 
Confession  of  Augsburg,  which  was  held  in  Pcstli  in  Sep- 
tember, the  reunion  of  the  Lutheran  Slovacks  who  had 
accepted  the  patent  with  the  remainder  of  the  Church 
was  consummated.  In  December,  18G7,  a General  Con- 
vention of  the  two  Protestant  churches  was  held  under 
the  presidency  of  baron  Nicholas  Vav,  in  order  to  ac- 
quaint the  Hungarian  Diet  with  the  wishes  and  opinion 
of  the  churches  concerning  religious  and  school  ques- 
tions. The  Convention  resolved,  1,  that  the  affairs  of 
the  Protestants  be  regulated  by  general  laws,  and  not 
by  special  laws  for  each  of  the  two  denominations;  2, 
that  no  privileges  be  granted  to  any  on  account  of  re- 
ligion ; 3,  that  the  equality  pronounced  in  the  20th  ar- 
ticle of  the  law  of  1848  extend  to  all  denominations;  4, 
that  the  Church  with  regard  to  the  state  he  autonomous, 
and  that  to  the  state  belong  only  the  right  of  supreme 
inspection  and  of  protection.  Other  liberal  resolutions 
were  adopted  by  this  and  by  a later  Convention  respect- 
ing a change  of  religion,  mixed  marriages,  divorces, 
schools,  and  endowment.  The  majority  of  the  Diet 
showed  itself  just  toward  the  Protestants,  and  their 
chief  demands  were  fulfilled.  The  reconciliation  which 
took  place  in  18G7  between  the  people  of  Hungary  and 
the  emperor  of  Austria  gave  to  Hungary  a greater  in- 
dependence than  it  had  ever  enjoyed  before.  A special 
ministry  was  appointed  for  the  countries  of  the  Hunga- 
rian crown,  which  also  had  their  own  diet,  and  retained 
only  a few  points  of  administration  in  common  with  the 
remainder  of  the  monarchy.  One  of  the  most  impor- 
tant reforms,  introduced  into  Hungary  in  consequence 
of  the  new  Constitution,  was  the  declaration  of  the  au- 
tonomy of  all  the  religions  recognized  in  Hungary,  and 
the  transfer  of  the  extensive  rights  in  ecclesiastical  af- 
fairs, which  had  formerly  been  connected  with  the  Hun- 
garian crown,  to  elective  assemblies  representing  the 
several  religious  denominations.  The  first  assemblies  of 
those  churches,  which  had  thus  far  been  without  them, 
were  convoked  by  the  government ; they  fixed  the  mode 
of  election  for  the  subsequent  assemblies.  T bus,  with 
the  other  denominations,  the  ltoraan  Catholic  Church 
received  an  autonomy  congress,  the  only  elective  assem- 
bly of  this  kind  in  the  Church,  and  regarded  with  great 
distrust  by  the  ultramontane  party.  It  consists  of  all 
the  bishops,  and  of  chosen  delegates  of  the  lower  clergy 


HUNGARY 


408 


HUNNIUS 


and  the  laity.  The  preliminary  congress  was  held  on 
June  24, 1809,  and  consisted  of  157  members. 

II.  Statistics. — According  to  the  last  official  census  of 
1857,  the  religious  statistics  of  the  countries  belonging 
to  the  Hungarian  crown  were  as  follows : 


j Latin. 

Greek. 

Non-Uniled 

Greek. 

Augsburg 

Confession. 

Helvetic 

Confession. 

Unita- 

Other 

Seels. 

Jews. 

Hungary 

Croatia  and  Slavonia. 
Transylvania 

5,138,01:- 
720,891: 
228,095 
448, 70S 

827,702 

1,844 

551,994 

5,535 

1,106,58S 
129,737 
623,055 
587, 28S 

795,930 

8S5 

195,861 

15,864 

1,553,368 

4,425 

265,976 

4,274 

964 

31 

48,040 

4 

97 

393,105 

5,041 

14,152 

404 

Military  Frontier 

Hungary  has  a national  university  at  Pesth,  48  Cath« 
olic  and  39  Protestant  gymnasia.  The  number  of  ele- 
mentary schools  amounted  (1804)  in  Hungary  to  11,452, 
in  Transylvania  to  1793,  in  Croatia  and  Slavonia  to  490, 
in  the  Military  Frontier  to  907.  A large  number  of 
communities  were  in  1809 


According  to  an  official  calculation,  the  Hungarian  coun- 
tries had,  in  1804,  7,120,000  Latin  Catholics,  1,498.000 
Greek  Catholics,  9000  Armenian  Catholies,  2,030,000 
Oriental  or  Non-Uni  ted  Greeks,  3,088,000  Evangelicals, 
54,000  Unitarians,  428,000  Israelites,  20,000  belonging 
to  other  sects. 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church  has  four  archbishops, 
those  of  Gran  (who  is  primate  of  all  Hungary),  Kalocza, 
Erlau,  and  Agram.  The  archbishopric  of  Gran,  which 
was  founded  by  St.  Stephen,  had  in  1870  ten  suffragan 
sees,  namely,  the  Latin  bishopries  of  Veszprim,  Neusohl, 
Waitzen,  Neutra,  Stahlweissenburg,  Fiinf kirclien,  Stein- 
amanger,  Raab,  and  the  United  Greek  sees  of  Muncacz 
and  Eperies.  The  archdiocese  of  Colocza  (and  Baez) 
has  the  Latin  suffragan  sees  of  Czanad,  Gran  Wardein, 
and  Transylvania.  The  suffragans  of  the  archbishop 
of  Erlau  are  the  bishops  of  Zips,  Kosenau,  Kascliau,  and 
Szathmar.  Agram,  which  had  formerly  been  a suffra- 
gan of  Gran,  and  was  constituted  an  archbishopric  on 
Dec.  20, 1852,  embraces  Croatia  and  Slavonia,  and  has  as 
suffragans  the  Latin  bishoprics  of  Zengg-Modruss  and 
Diaeovar  (Bosnia-Syrmium),  and  the  Greek  bishop  of 
Creutz. 

The  Greek  Catholic  (United  Greek)  Church  has,  be- 
sides the  bishops  of  Muncacz,  Eperies,  and  Creutz,  who 
have  already  been  mentioned,  an  archbishop  (since  1853)  i 
at  Fogaras,  who  has  as  suffragans  the  bishops  of  Lugos, 
Gran  Wardein,  and  Szamos-Ujvar. 

The  Oriental,  or  Noil-United  Greek  Church,  has  for 
the  Servian  nationality  a patriarch  at  Carlovicz,  and 
suffragan  sees  at  Alt-Ofen,  Arad,  Temcsvar,  Neusatz, 
Pakratz,  and  Carlstadt ; for  the  Roumanian  nationality, 
a metropolitan  of  Transylvania. 

The  Church  of  the  Augsburg  Confession  (evangelical 
Lutherans)  has  four  superintendeneies  (Cis-Danubian, 
Trans-Danubian, Montan  District,  and  Theiss  District); 
the  superintendeneies  are  subdivided  into  seniorats,  the 
latter  into  congregations.  The  Church  of  the  Helvetic 
Confession  has  likewise  four  superintendeneies,  which 
are  also  subdivided  into  seniorats  and  congregations. 
Transylvania  has  one  Lutheran  and  one  Reformed  su- 
perintendent. Each  congregation  of  the  two  Protes- 
tant churches  chooses  its  own  pastors  and  a presbytery, 
which  is  presided  over  in  the  Church  of  the  Augsburg 
Confession  by  a loeal  inspector,  and  in  the  Church  of  the 
Helvetic  Confession  by  a eurator,  in  eommon  with  the 
pastor.  The  congregations  belonging  to  one  seniorat 
choose  a senior  and  a senioral  inspector  (Lutheran),  or 
subeurator  (Reformed).  In  the  Reformed  seniorats,  the 
senior  presides  in  the  senioral  conventions ; in  the  Lu- 
theran Church,  the  inspector.  The  superintendents  and 
the  superintendential  inspectors  (Lutheran)  or  curators 
(Reformed)  are  chosen  for  lifetime  by  all  the  congrega- 
tions. The  superintendential  conventions,  which  are 
held  annually,  and  composed  of  all  the  seniors,  and  of 
one  clerical  and  one  lay  deputy  from  each  seniorat,  are 
presided  over  by  the  superintendent  in  eommon  with  the 
superintendential  inspector  or  curator.  The  Protestants 
of  the  Helvetic  Confession  are  all  Magyars,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  eight  German  congregations ; to  the  Church 
of  the  Augsburg  Confession  belong  about  200,000  Ger- 
mans, 200,000  Magyars,  and  400,000  Slaves. 

The  Unitarians  in  Transylvania  have  a superintend- 
ent (bishop)  and  Supreme  Consistory  at  Clausenburg, 
104  parishes,  and  120  ministers. 


still  without  a school. 
There  are  also  five  normal 
schools  at  Pesth,  Sgezedin, 
Neuhausel,  Miskolcz,  and 
Grosskanizsa.  — Herzog, 
Real- Encyklop.  xvi,  636  ; 
Mather,  Kir  chi.  Chronik,  1867  and  1869;  Nelier,  Kir  chi. 
Geogr.  u.  Statistik , i,  216  sq. ; Wiggers,  Kirclil.  Statistik, 

11,  123.  (A.J.S.) 

Hunger  (PIS'!,  raali' ; Truvato)  and  Thirst  are  the 
symbols  of  affliction.  Thus  in  Dent,  viii,  3,  “ He  hum- 
bled thee,  and  suffered  thee  to  hunger,”  where  the  latter 
is  the  instrument  of  the  former.  So  Dent,  xxxii,  24, 
“They  shall  be  burnt  with  hunger;”  i.  e.  they  shall  be 
tormented  or  afflieted.  So  to  fast  is  often  called  to  af- 
flict one's  soul,  as  in  Lev.  xvi,  29-31 ; Isa.  lviii,  5.  In 
Aristophanes  (.4  res)  hunger  is  proverbially  used  for 
great  misery.  See  1 Cor.  i v,  11;  2 Cor.  xi,  27 ; Phil,  iv, 

12.  In  our  Lord’s  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  to  hunger  and 
thirst  signifies  to  long  for  and  relish  the  Gospel  (Matt, 
v,  6;  Luke  vi.  21),  but  elsewhere  to  be  in  want  of  hear- 
ing God’s  word;  that  is,  to  be  hindered  by  persecution 
from  worshipping  God  in  peace  (Psa.  xxiii ; Eceles. 
xxiv,  19;  John  iv,  13, 14;  vi,  35;  Amos  viii,  11 ; Ezek. 
vii,  26). — Wemyss.  See  Famine. 

Hunnius,  J3Dgidius,  an  eminent  Gorman  Luther- 
an theologian,  was  born  at  Wincnden,  in  Wiirtemberg, 
Dec.  21, 1550,  and  studied  theology  at  Tubingen,  where 
he  afterwards  beeame  first  tutor,  and  deacon  in  1574. 
In  1576  he  went  to  Marburg  as  professor  and  preacher. 
Here  his  strict  adherence  to  the  doctrine  of  ubiquity  in 
the  Eucharist,  and  his  advoeacy  of  the  Formula  of  Con- 
cord, sowed  the  germ  of  the  separation  of  the  Hessian 
Church.  In  1592  he  became  professor  at  the  Universi- 
sity  of  Wittenberg,  where  he  opposed  the  moderate 
views  of  Melancthon.  In  1594  he  accompanied  the 
duke  Frederick  William  to  the  Imperial  Diet  at  Re- 
gensburg, where  his  influence  opposed  the  union  of  the 
uifferent  evangelical  free  cities.  In  1595  he  sustained 
a sharp  controversy  with  Samuel  Huber  (q.v.)  on  the 
doctrines  of  election  and  predestination,  and  hi  1602,  at 
the  Conference  of  Eatisbon,  he  was  one  of  the  principal 
opponents  of  the  Jesuits  Gretzer  and  Tanner.  He  died 
April  4, 1603.  His  principal  works  are,  Confession  v.  cl. 
Person  Cliristi  (1577,  1609);  also  in  Latin,  Be  persona 
Christi  (1585): — Calvinus  Judaizans  (1593): — Antipa- 
rceus  (1594  and  1599): — Josephus,  a drama  (1597).  His 
works  in  Latin  have  been  collected  and  published  by 
Gartliius  (Wittenb.  1607-9,  5 vols.  folio).  See  Hotter, 
Lelensbeschrcihuvg  (1603) ; Adami,  Yitce  Theologorum ; 
Erseli  und  Gruber,  Eneyklopddie ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog. 
Generate,  xxv,  554;  Herzog,  Real-Eneyklop.  vi,  316  sq. ; 
Kurtz,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  140 ; Baylc,  JJist.  Diet,  iii,  534  sq. 

Hunnius,  Nikolaus,  son  of  yEgidius  Hunnius, 
was  born  at  Marburg  July  1 1 , 1585.  He  studied  philol- 
ogy, philosophy,  and  theology  at  Wittenberg,  where  he 
began  leetures  on  theology  and  philosophy  in  1609.  In 
1612  he  went  as  superintendent  to  Eilenburg,  and  in 
1617  returned  to  Wittenberg  as  professor,  in  the  place 
of  Hutter  (q.  v.).  In  1623  he  beeame  head  pastor  of 
the  Church  of  Mary  at  Liibeck,  and  superintendent  of 
the  Church  in  the  same  eitv  the  following  year.  He 
died  April  12,  1643.  He  resembled  his  father  as  well 
in  his  attachment  to  the  Lutheran  orthodoxy  as  in  his 
learning  and  controversial  powers.  He  devised  the  plan 
of  a Collegium  Irenicum,  which  was  called,  after  him, 
“ Collegium  Hunnianum,”  and  which  was  to  form  a su- 
preme tribunal  in  all  theological  disputes.  He  was  also 
distinguished  as  an  able  opponent  of  Popery.  His  prin- 
cipal works  are,  Ministerii  Lutherani  divini  adeoque  le- 


HUNOLT  409  HUNT 


gitimi  demonstrate  (Wittcnb.  1G14)  -.—Examen  errorum 
Photmianorum  (1618,  1620):  — Epitome  credendorum 
(Wittenberg,  1625;  18  eds.,  and  translated  into  Dutch, 
Swedish,  and  Polish)  : — Aidax^i'  theol.  de  fundamen- 
tal* dissensn  doctrines  evangel.  Lutherame  et  Calciniance 
(Wittenb.  1626) : — Bedenken  ob  v.  wie  d.  in  d.  Eeangel- 
isch- Luther ischen  Kirche  d.  schtcebende  Religionstreitig- 
keit.  beilegen  od.fortstellen  u.  endigen  mogen  (Li'ib.  1632, 
1638, 1666, 1667) : — Anweisung  zum  rechten  Christenthum 
(Liib.  1637  and  1643).  See  lleller,  Lebensbeschreibung 
(1843);  Pierer,  Universal  Lex.  vol.  viii ; Herzog,  Real- 
Encyklop.  vi,  321  sq. ; Kurtz,  Ch.  Ilist.  ii,  201, 

Hunolt,  Franz,  a distinguished  Roman  Catholic 
pulpit  orator,  was  horn  in  the  duchy  of  Nassau  towards 
the  close  of  the  17th  century.  He  was  a member  of  the 
Jesuit  order,  and  his  Sermons  (Cologne,  1737,  6 vols.  fol., 
and  often)  gave  him  rank  as  one  of  the  best  preachers 
of  the  18th  century,  lie  died  at  Trier  in  1746. — Wet- 
zer  u.Welte,  Kirchen-Lex.  xii,  606. 

Huns  (Latin  Jlunni),  a nation  of  Asiatic  origin,  and 
in  all  likelihood  of  Mongolian  or  Tartar  stock,  therefore 
akin  to,  and  perhaps  to  be  identified  with,  the  Scythians 
and  the  Turks,  were,  according  to  Dc  Guignes  ( llist.des 
Huns'),  whose  theory  was  accepted  by  Gibbon,  and  is 
noiv  entertained  by  all  competent  critics,  lineal  descend- 
ants from  the  Iliong-now  nation,  “whose  ancient  seat 
was  an  extensive  but  barren  tract  of  country  immedi- 
ately to  the  north  of  the  great  wall  of  China.  About 
the  year  B.C.  200  these  people  overran  the  Chinese  em- 
pire, defeated  the  Chinese  armies  in  numerous  engage- 
ments, and  even  drove  the  emperor  Kao-ti  himself  to 
an  ignominious  capitulation  and  treaty.  During  the 
reign  of  You-ti  (B.C.  141-87)  their  power  was  very 
much  broken.  Eventually  they  separated  into  two  dis- 
tinct camps,  one  of  which,  amounting  to  about  50,000 
families,  went  southwards,  while  the  other  endeavored 
to  maintain  itself  in  its  original  seat.  This,  however, 
it  was  very  difficult  for  them  to  do;  and  eventually  the 
most  warlike  and  enterprising  went  west  and  north-west 
in  search  of  new  homes.  Of  those  that  went  north- 
west, a large  number  established  themselves  for  a while 
on  the  banks  of  the  Volga.”  About  the  earlier  part  of 
the  4th  century  they  crossed  this  river,  and  advanced 
into  the  territories  of  the  Alani,  a pastoral  people  dwell- 
ing between  the  Volga  and  the  Don.  The  incursion 
was  resisted  with  much  bravery  and  some  effect,  until 
at  length  a bloody  and  decisive  battle  was  fought  on  , 
the  banks  of  the  Don,  in  which  the  Alan  king  was  slain, 
and  his  army  utterly  routed,  an^l  the  vast  majority  of 
the  survivors  agreed  to  join  the  invaders.  They  next 
encountered  successfully  the  aged  leader  of  the  Goths, 
wrho  claimed  as  his  dominions  the  land  situated  between 
the  Baltic  and  the  Euxine,  and  then  his  successor  With- 
imir,  whom  they  slew  in  battle.  The  Goths  still  re- 
maining placed  themselves  under  the  protection  of  the 
emperor  Valens,  who  in  376  gave  permission  to  a great 
number  of  them  to  cross  the  Danube,  and  settle  in  the 
countries  on  the  other  side  as  auxiliaries  to  the  Roman 
arms  against  further  invasion.  The  Huns  thus  became 
the  occupants  of  all  the  old  territories  of  the  Goths;  and 
when  these,  not  long  afterwards,  revolted  against  Va- 
lens, the  Huns  also  crossed  the  Danube,  and  joined  their 
arms  to  those  of  the  Goths  in  hostilities  against  the  Ro- 
man empire.  In  the  wars  that  followed,  the  Huns  were 
less  conspicuous  than  the  Goths,  their  former  enemies. 
In  the  5th  century  they  were  strengthened  by  fresh 
hordes  of  their  brethren,  and  they  determined  to  gain 
further  conquests.  In  the  reign  of  Theodosius,  under 
their  king  Attila  (q.  v.),  they  were  even  strong  enough 
to  receive  an  annual  tribute  from  the  Romans  to  secure 
their  empire  against  external  injury.  With  Attila’s 
death,  however,  in  454,  their  power  was  totally  bro- 
ken. A few  feeble  sovereigns  succeeded  him,  but 
there  was  now  strife  everywhere  among  the  several  na- 
tions that  had  owned  the  firm  sway  of  Attila,  and  the 
Huns  never  regained  their  power.  Many  of  them  took 


service  in  the  armies  of  the  Romans,  and  others  again 
joined  fresh  hordes  of  invaders  from  the  north  and  east, 
which  were  undoubtedly  tribes  related  to  them,  espe- 
cially the  Avarcs,  whom  they  joined  in  great  numbers, 
and  lienee  perhaps  the  reason  why,  at  this  period  of 
their  history,  they  are  frequently  called  Hunnavares. 
They  now  made  themselves  masters  of  the  country 
known  by  us  as  Lower  Austria.  But  the  Slaves  (Sla- 
vonians V)  in  Bohemia  and  Moravia  regained  their  ter- 
ritory in  the  8th  century,  and  many  of  the  lluunavarcs 
were  made  slaves,  and  were  thus  brought  to  a knowl- 
edge of  Christianity.  Their  inclinations,  however,  led 
them  to  oppose  most  fiercely  all  the  inroads  of  Christi- 
anity, and  they  transformed  Christian  churches  into 
heathen  temples  wherever  they  were  successful  in  gain- 
ing territory.  About  791  Charlemagne  waged  war 
against  the  Avares,  as  the  Huns  were  then  called,  in 
which  many  of  them  were  slain,  and  but  few  weak  tribes 
remained.  About  the  year  799  they  were  finally  conquer- 
ed, and  their  power  broken.  Charles  himself  regarded 
this  war  as  a sort  of  crusade  or  holy  war,  and  sent  to 
the  pope  and  the  Church  all  the  tribute  paid  him  by 
the  vanquished  foe.  The  first  great  convert  to  Christi- 
anity was  one  of  their  princes,  called  Tudem,  who  sent 
a legation  to  Charlemagne  in  795,  with  the  declaration 
that  he  ivoidd  become  tributary  to  him  and  accept  the 
Christian  religion.  He  was  baptized  at  Aix-la-Clia- 
pelle  in  796,  but  shortly  after  his  return  to  his  tribe  he 
abjured  the  newly-accepted  faith.  King  Pepin  paid 
particular  attention  to  the  conversion  of  the  lluns,  in 
whose  behalf  Alenin  (q.  v.)  also  was  greatly  interested. 
By  peopling  the  territory  assigned  to  them  with  Ger- 
mans, especially  Bavarians,  and  by  founding  several 
monasteries  and  cathedrals,  the  subsequent  Christian 
princes  furthered  Christianity  among  them,  until  they 
became  amalgamated  with  the  Germans. 

The  II  uns  are  said  to  have  been  of  a dark  complexion, 
almost  black;  deformed  in  their  appearance,  of  uncouth 
gesture,  and  shrill  voice.  The  ancient  descriptions  un- 
mistakably ally  them  to  the  Tartars.  “They  were  dis- 
tinguished from  the  rest  of  the  human  species  by  their 
broad  shoulders,  flat  noses,  and  small  black  eyes  deeply 
buried  in  the  head ; and,  as  they  were  almost  destitute  of 
beards,  they  never  enjoyed  either  the  manly  graces  of 
youth  or  the  venerable  aspect  of  age.  A fabulous  origin 
was  assigned  worthy  of  their  form  and  manners — that  the 
witches  of  Scythia,  who,  for  their  foul  and  deadly  prac- 
tices, had  been  driven  from  society,  had  copulated  in  the 
desert  with  infernal  spirits,  and  that  the  I Inns  were  the 
offspring  of  this  execrable  conjunction”  (Gibbon).  See 
Wetzer  und  Welte,  Kirchen-Lex.  v,  397  sq. ; Chambers, 
Cyclop,  x,  462;  Appleton,  Am.  Cyclop.  i.\,  318;  Gibbon, 
Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  (Milman’s  ed.), 
vol.  vi  (see  Index).  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hunt,  Aaron,  an  early  Methodist  Episcopal  min- 
ister, was  born  of  Episcopal  parents  at  Eastchester,  N. 
Y.,  March  28, 1768,  and  emigrated  to  New  York  City  at 
seventeen.  Here  he  was  converted  in  1789,  and  licensed 
to  preach  in  1790.  He  was  first  employed  as  assistant 
to  Dr.  Wm.  Phtcbtis  on  the  Long  Island  Circuit.  In 
1791  he  entered  the  New  York  Conference,  and  was 
sent  to  Fairfield  Circuit.  In  a few  years  his  labors  were 
extended  all  through  the  state  of  Connecticut,  on  the 
cast  as  well  as  on  the  west  side  of  the  river  by  that 
name,  and  into  adjoining  states,  exploring  new  ground, 
and  contending  with  opposition  and  difficulties  common 
to  Methodist  ministers  of  those  times.  After  this  we 
find  him  laboring  on  various  circuits  in  the  state  and 
city  of  New  York,  having  charge  of  the  whole  work  in 
that  great  city,  lie  was  sixty-seven  years  in  the  min- 
istry, thirty-seven  of  which  he  was  an  effective  laborer 
in  the  regular  itinerant  work;  and  whether  located,  su- 
pernumerary, or  superannuated,  be  continued  to  labor 
and  preach  as  he  had  opportunity,  and  health  would 
permit,  until  March,  1855.  He  died  at  Sharon,  Conn., 
April  25,  1858.  See  Minutes  of  Conferences , vii,  158; 
Stevens,  Memorials  of  Methodism. 


HUNT 


410 


HUNTER 


Hunt,  Absalom,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
was  born  in  Virginia  Dec.  4, 1773,  and  emigrated  when 
a boy  to  East  Tennessee,  and  later  removed  to  Fleming 
Co.,  Kentucky.  He  was  licensed  as  a local  preacher 
about  1793.  In  1815  he  joined  the  Kentucky  Confer- 
ence on  trial,  and  was  sent  to  the  Madison  Circuit.  He 
was  next  appointed  to  the  Lexington  Circuit,  and  two 
years  afterwards  successively  to  the  Hinkstone,  Lime- 
stone, Mt.  Sterling,  and  Fleming  Circuits.  In  1823  he 
was  superannuated,  but  returned  at  the  next  session  of 
the  Conference,  and  was  sent  to  the  Liberty  Circuit. 
From  1825-28  he  served  as  supernumerary  at  Paris,  Lex- 
ington, and  Hinkstone,  and  then  returned  to  the  super- 
annuated list,  finding  his  health  inadequate  to  the  ac- 
tive work  of  the  ministry.  He  died  February  21, 1841. 
Hunt  was  a “ natural  orator,”  and,  “ though  comparative- 
ly illiterate  and  unpolished,  such  was  his  native  good 
sense,  his  deep  acquaintance  with  the  human  heart,  his 
quick  perception  of  the  characters  of  men,  and  the  un- 
affected kindness  of  his  manners,  that  he  was  not  only 
generally  popular  as  a preacher,  but  was  often  the  ad- 
mired favorite  with  the  learned  and  the  refined.” — Meth- 
odist Monthly , 1850 ; Redford,  Methodism  in  Kentucky , ii, 
34G  sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Hunt,  Christopher,  a minister  of  the  Reformed 
(Dutch)  Church,  was  born  at  Tarry  town,  N.  Y.,  near  the 
opening  of  our  century;  graduated  at  Rutgers  College 
in  1827,  and  at  New  Brunswick  Theological  Seminary  in 
1830.  He  was  settled  at  Clarkstown,  N.  Y.,  1830-2;  at 
Nassau,  N.  Y.,  1832-7 ; and  at  Franklin  St.,  N.  York,  1837 
-9.  Bereft  of  both  parents  when  very  young,  he  made 
his  home  an  orphan  asylum,  where  Christian  kindness 
and  spiritual  training  were  blessed  to  him.  He  was  an 
earnest,  devoted  preacher,  a man  of  comprehensive  views, 
and  well  qualified  by  natural  endowments,  as  well  as  by 
divine  grace,  for  the  large  and  important  charge  in 
which  he  ended  his  ministry.  II is  memory  is  ardently 
cherished  among  the  churches  which  he  served.  He 
fell  in  the  prime  of  life,  a victim  of  pulmonary  disease. 
His  last  words  wore,  “All  is  well.” — Corwin’s  Manual  of 
the  Reformed  Dutch  Church , p.  119.  (\V.  J.  R.  T.) 

Hunt,  Jeremiah,  D.D.,  a learned  English  dissent- 
er, was  born  at  London  in  1078.  He  studied  first  in 
that  city  under  Mr.  Thomas  Rowe,  and  afterwards  at 
Edinburgh  and  Leyden.  On  his  return  to  England  he 
preached  at  Tunsted,  near  Norwich.  He  received  the 
degree  of  D.D.  from  the  University  of  Edinburgh  in 
1707,  and  died  Sept.  5, 1744.  Dr.  Lardner  preached  his 
funeral  sermon,  which  contained  a biographical  sketch. 
Dr.  Benson  edited  Hunt’s  sermons,  which  are  elaborate 
and  exact  compositions,  but  not  interesting.  His  princi- 
pal works  are  An  Essay  toicards  explaining  the  History 
and  Revelations  of  Scripture  in  their  several  Periods , pt. 
i;  to  which  is  added  a Dissertation  on  the  Fall  of  Man 
(Lond.  1731, 8vo): — Sermons  and  Tracts  (Loud.  1748,  4 
vols.  8vo). — Darling,  Cyctopeedia  Eibliographica,  i,  1580. 

Hunt,  John,  a Congregational  minister,  was  bom 
at  Northampton  Nov.  20, 1744,  and  was  educated  at  Har- 
vard (class  of  1704).  From  1705-69  he  taught  a gram- 
mar school  at  his  native  place.  While  in  this  position  he 
was  converted,  and  having  pursued  a theological  course 
in  his  last  years  of  teaching,  he  was  licensed  to  preach  , 
in  1709.  (July  two  years  later  he  was  called  to  the  old  | 
South  Church,  Boston,  as  associate  of  the  Rev.  John  Ba- 
con (q.  v.).  In  1775,  while  on  a visit  to  his  home,  he 
died  (Dec.  20).  Though  young  even  when  he  died, 
Hunt  had  already  acquired  a great  reputation  as  a ready 
speaker  and  a superior  thinker,  lie  published  two  of 
his  sermons  (1771). — Sprague,  Annals  of  the  Amer.  Pul- 
pif , i,  086  sq. 

Hunt,  John,  a Wesleyan  missionary  to  the  Fiji 
Islands,  and  a model  of  Christian  excellence,  was  born 
at  Ilvkeham  Moor,  near  Lincoln,  England,  June  13, 1812. 
His  early  education  was  very  limited,  and  John  was 
brought  up  to  assist  his  father  on  a farm,  over  which  he 
was  bailiff  or  overseer.  When  seventeen  years  old  he  J 


was  converted,  and  joined  the  Wesleyan  society,  to  whose 
service  he  resolved  to  devote  all  his  powers.  He  began 
at  once  to  preach,  and  by  close  application  acquired  con- 
siderable knowledge.  In  1835  lie  received  the  recom- 
mendation from  a Quarterly  Meeting  to  join  Conference, 
and  in  May,  1830,  he  was  accepted  by  that  body  as  a 
“preacher  on  trial.”  His  intention  was  to  preach  a 
short  time  at  home,  and,  after  sufficient  preparation,  go 
to  Africa  as  a missionary.  Upon  examination  at  Lon- 
don before  the  Missionary  Committee,  he  was  found  to 
be  so  far  beyond  the  average  standard  that  it  was  de- 
cided that  Hunt  should  be  sent  to  the  theological  insti- 
tution at  Hoxton.  In  1838,  when  it  became  the  task 
of  the  Missionary  Committee  at  London  to  determine 
the  future  course  of  Hunt,  the  wants  of  Fiji  seemed  to 
press  upon  them,  and  they  o verruled  the  original  design 
of  sending  him  to  Africa.  He  was  ordained  March  27, 
and  sailed,  with  his  lately-wedded  bride,  April  29,1838, 
and  they  entered  on  their  work  at  Ilewa  Jan.  3,  1839. 
His  only  object  was  to  d<»  successfully  the  work  for 
which  he  was  sent.  He  labored  earnestly  to  acquire  a 
thorough  mastery  of  the  language  of  the  natives,  and 
soon  met  with  such  success  as  has  rarely  crowned  the 
work  of  a Christian  missionary.  Indeed,  he  became  a 
living  example  to  all  missionaries  through  those  islands. 
“Neither  distance  nor  danger  delayed  or  daunted  him. 
In  one  of  his  tours  he  preached  the  Gospel  to  five  dif- 
ferent nations  and  kingdoms,  who  had  never  before  seen 
a missionary.  He  died  ill  the  midst  of  his  labors,  Oct. 
4, 1848.  Besides  a translation  of  the  New  Testament 
for  the  Fijis,  Hunt  wrote  a work  on  Entire  Sanctif  ca- 
tion, “ the  matured  thoughts  of  a Christian  profoundly 
submissive  to  divine  teachings;  written  amidst  the  most 
j robust  labors  of  untiring  activity,  prompted  by  the  prin- 
ciple of  holiness;  and  himself  able,  through  grace,  to 
j illustrate  the  truths  he  taught  by  his  spirit  and  life. 
The  book  will  live;  for  it  is  a thorough  discussion  of 
the  doctrine  of  holy  Scripture,  untinctured  with  mysti- 
cism, free  from  enthusiastic  extravagance,  and  not  bur- 
dened, like  some  recent  writings,  with  extraneous  mat- 
ters interesting  only  to  the  writer.”  See  Rowe,  Life  of 
John  Hunt  (Lond.  1860, 12mo).  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hunt,  Robert,  a very  pious  and  devoted  clergy- 
man of  the  Church  of  England,  and  one  of  the  petition- 
ers for  the  charter  granted  by  king  James  I to  the  “Lon- 
don Company”  April  10, 1606,  emigrated  for  this  coun- 
try as  preacher  of  the  first  colony  to  Virginia  Dec.  19, 
1606.  The  history  of  Mr.  Hunt’s  life  previous  to  this 
time  is  not  known,  neither  is  it  definitely  known  wheth- 
er he  spent  the  remainder  of  his  life  in  Virginia,  though 
this  is  generally  supposed  to  have  been  the  ease,  nor  is 
the  time  of  his  death  at  all  ascertained.  During  his 
connection  with  the  colony  their  church  was  burned, 
and  with  it  Mr.  Hunt's  library,  but  he  lived  to  see  at 
last  the  church  rebuilt  (1608). — Hawks,  Rise  and  Prog- 
ress of  the  Prot.  Episc.  Ch . in  Va.  p.  17  sq. 

Hunt,  Thomas,  D.D.,  a distinguished  English  He- 
braist, was  born  in  1690.  He  studied  at  the  University 
of  Oxford,  where  he  took  the  degree  of  M.A.  in  1721. 
He  was  one  of  the  first  fellows  of  Hertford  College,  and 
applied  himself  especially  to  philosophical  researches  in 
the  O.  Test.  He  greatly  assisted  Walton  in  publishing 
the  London  Polyglot.  In  1738  he  wras  called  to  the 
| chair  of  Arabic  founded  bv  Laud.  In  1747  he  became 
professor  of  Hebrew  at  Oxford;  in  1740  he  was  made 
: fellow  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London,  and  received  the 
I degree  of  D.D.  in  1744.  lie  died  at  Oxford  October  31, 

I 1774.  Hunt  wrote  De  Benedictione  patriarchs  Jacobi 
(Oxford,  1724,4to)  : — De  antiquit  ate,  elegantia  et  ntilitate 
1 Lingua1  A rabicee  (Oxford,  1739.4to) : — De  Usti  Dialecto- 
rum  Orientalium , etc.  (Oxford,  1748): — Observations  on 
several  Passages  of  the  Book  of  Proi'erbs,  with  two  Ser- 
I mons  (Oxf.  1775, 4to),  his  best  and  a most  valuable  work, 

[ published  after  the  author’s  death,  under  the  care  of 
"ennicott.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Hunter.  See  Hunting. 


HUNTER 


411 


HUNTING 


Hunter,  Henry,  D.D.,  a Scotch  Presbyterian  di- 
vine, born  at  Culross,  Perthshire,  in  1741,  was  educated 
at  the  University  of  Edinburgh.  In  170G  he  became 
minister  of  South  Leith,  and  in  1771  minister  of  the 
Scotch  Church,  London  Wall, London,  lie  died  at  Bris- 
tol  Hot  Wells,  October  ‘27, 1802.  Hunter  was  a man  of 
learning,  and  an  eloquent  writer.  His  principal  works 
arc  /Sermons,  collected  and  republished  in  their  respective 
order , etc.  (Loud.  1795, 2 vols.  8vo) : — Sacred  Biography, 
or  the  History  of  the.  Patriarchs ; being  a course  of  lec- 
tures delivered  at  the  Scotch  Church,  London  Wall  (0th 
ed.  Lond.  1807, 5 vols.8vo).  This  work  has  often  been  re- 
printed both  in  England  and  America,  and  has  had  great 
popularity.  It  is,  to  a large  extent,  an  unacknowledged 
translation  from  Saurin’s  Discours  Historiques.  Hunter 
edited  several  other  French  books,  and  excelled  in  this 
line  of  labor.  After  his  death  appeared  a collection  of 
his  Sermons  and  other  Pieces , with  a Sketch  of  his  Life 
and  Writings  (Lond.  1804,2  vols.8vo).  See  Jones,  Chris- 
tian Biography , s.  v. ; Darling,  Cyclopaedia  Biblioyraph- 
ica,  i,  1582 ; Alii  bone,  Dictionary  of  A uthors,  i,  922. 

Hunter,  Humphrey,  a Presbyterian  minister  and 
patriot,  was  born  near  Londonder- 
ry, Ireland,  May  14,  1755.  His 
widowed  mother  came  to  this 
country  when  Humphrey  was 
only  lour  years  old.  During  the 
Revolution  he  served  our  nation 
in  the  struggle  for  independence, 
first  as  a private,  and  later,  for  a. 
short  time,  as  lieutenant,  against 
the  Cherokee  Indians,  lie  final- 
ly decided  to  prepare  himself  for 
a literary  career,  and  to  this  end 
pursued  a course  of  study  at  the 
Queen’s  Museum,  afterwards  call- 
ed Liberty  Hall  Academy,  at 
Charlotte,  N.  C.  After  the  surrender  of  Charlestown  he 
re-enlisted,  and  was  taken  prisoner  at  the  battle  of  Cam- 
den. He  succeeded  in  making  his  escape  from  the  en- 
emy, and  took  a gallant  part  in  the  battle  at  Eutaw 
Springs.  After  this  he 
resumed  his  studies  at 
Mount  Zion  College, 

Minnsborough,  S.  C.,  and 
graduated  in  1787.  Two 
years  later  he  was  or- 
dained for  the  ministry, 
and  in  1805  was  installed 
as  pastor  over  the  Steele 
Creek  Church,  N.C., where 
he  remained  until  his 
death,  Aug.  21, 1827.  (J. 

II.  W.) 

Hunter,  William, 

a Methodist  Episcopal 
minister,  was  born  in  the 
County  of  Tyrone,  Ire- 
land, May  5, 1755.  When  about  twenty- four  years  old  he 
was  converted,  and  joined  the  Wesleyan  Methodist  Soci- 
ety, and  shortly  after  his  connection  with  the  Church  be- 
gan to  preach.  lie  became  personally  acquainted  with 
Mr. Wesley,  and  felt  so  drawn  towards  him  that  lie  decided 
to  accompany  him  from  place  to  place,  to  profit  by  the 
godly  lite  of  the  founder  of  Methodism.  In  May,  1790, 
he  emigrated  to  this  country,  and  settled  in  Delaware. 
He  was  admitted  on  trial  in  the  travelling  connection 
in  1793,  was  ordained  deacon  in  1794,  and  in  1790  an  i 
elder.  He  successively  travelled  Chester,  Bristol,  Do- 
ver, Cecil,  Kent,  Queen  Anne’s,  Strasburg,  Dauphin,  and 
Lancaster  circuits.  For  two  years  he  labored  as  a mis- 
sionary in  Pennsylvania,  and  during  four  years  he  pre- 
sided on  the  Schuylkill  District.  In  1814  he  was  re- 
turned superannuated,  but  in  1810  he  again  resumed  his 
labors.  In  1819  he  was  returned  supernumerary,  and  ! 
from  1822  to  1827  continued,  and  so  remained,  till  Iris  : 


death  at  Coventry,  Pa.,  Sept.  27,  1833.  In  the  various 
appointments  he  filled  in  the  Church  “he  was  accepta- 
ble and  useful  as  a preacher,  and  discharged  the  duties 
of  Iris  vocation  with  simplicity  and  fidelity.” — Minutes 
of  Coif. 

Hunting  (^2,  Gr.  uypa).  The  pursuit  and  capture 
of  beasts  of  the  field  was  one  of  the  first  means  of  suste- 
nance to  which  the  human  race  had  recourse.  In  proc- 
ess of  time,  however,  when  civilization  had  made  some 
progress,  when  cities  were  built  and  lands  cultivated, 
hunting  was  carried  on  not  so  much  for  the  food  which 
it  brought  as  for  the  recreation  it  gave  and  its  condu- 
civeiicss  to  health.  Hunting  has  always  home  some- 
what of  a regal  character,  and  in  Persia  immense  parks 
( 7ra()doeiooi ) were  inclosed  for  nurturing  and  preserv- 
ing beasts  of  the  chase.  The  monarch  himself  led  the 
way  to  the  sport,  not  only  in  these  preserves,  but  also 
over  the  wide  surface  of  the  country,  being  attended  by 
his  nobles,  especially  by  the  younger  aspirants  to  lame 
and  warlike  renown  (Xenopli.  Cyr.  viii,  1,38),  Scenes 
of  this  character  are  abundantly  portrayed  on  the  As- 
syrian and  Babylonian  monuments  recently  discovered 


hv  Botta  and  Layard.  The  king  is  represented  as  pur- 
suing not  only  smaller  game  on  horseback,  but  also  en- 
gaged in  the  chase  of  more  formidable  animals,  such  as 
lions  and  wild  bulls,  in  the  chariot  (Lavard’s  Xineveh, 


1st  ser.  ii,  328).  See  Liox.  This  was  especially  a fa- 
vorite employment  of  princes,  and  Darius  caused  to  be 
engraved  on  iris  tomb  an  epitaph  recording  his  proficien- 
cy as  an  archer  and  hunter  (Strabo,  xv,  212). 

In  the  Bible  we  find  hunting  connected  with  royalty 
as  early  as  in  Gen.  x,  9.  The  great  founder  of  Babel  was 
in  general  repute  as  “a  mighty  hunter  before  the  Lord.” 
See  Xi.miiod.  The  patriarchs,  however,  arc  to  be  re- 
garded rather  as  herdsmen  than  hunters,  if  respect  is 
had  to  their  habitual  mode  of  life,  ’flic  condition  of 
the  herdsman  ensues  next  to  that  of  the  hunter  in  the 
early  stages  of  civilization,  and  so  we  find  that  even 
Cain  was  a keeper  of  sheep.  This,  and  the  fact  that 
Abel  is  designated  “ a tiller  of  the  ground,”  would  seem 
to  indicate  a very  rapid  progress  in  the  arts  and  pur- 
suits of  social  life.  The  same  contrast  and  similar  hos- 
tility we  find  somewhat  later  in  the  case  of  Jacob  and 
Esau;  the  first  “a  plain  man  dwelling  in  tents,”  the 


Iioyal  Lion-hunt.  From  the  Assyrian  Monuments. 


HUNTING 


412 


HUNTINGDON 


second  “a  cunning  hunter,  a man  of  the  field”  (Gen. 
xxv  sq.).  The  account  given  of  Esau  in  connection 
with  his  father  seems  to  show  that  limiting  was,  con- 
jointly with  tillage,  pursued  at  that  time  as  a means  of 
subsistence,  and  that  hunting  had  not  then  passed  into 
its  secondary  state,  and  become  an  amusement. 

In  Egypt  the  children  of  Israel  doubtless  were  specta- 
tors of  hunting  carried  on  extensively  and  pursued  in  dif- 
ferent methods,  but  chiefly,  as  appears  probable,  with  a 


Ancient  Egyptian  Hunter  carrying  Home  the  Game. 


view  rather  to  recreation  than  subsistence  (Wilkinson’s 
Anc.  Egypt,  vol.  iii).  Wild  oxen  are  represented  on  the 
Egyptian  sculptures  as  captured  by  means  of  the  lasso, 
but  dogs  appear  to  have  been  usually  employed  in  the 
chase.  See  Don.  That  the  land  of  promise  into  which 
the  Hebrews  were  conducted  on  leaving  Egypt  was 
plentifully  supplied  with  beasts  of  the  chase  appears 
clear  from  Exod.  xxiii,  20,  “ I will  not  drive  them  out 
in  one  year,  lest  the  land  become  desolate  and  the  beast 
of  the  field  multiply  against  thee”  (comp.  Dent,  iii,  22). 
Also  from  the  regulation  given  in  Lev.xvii,  15, it  is  man- 
ifest that  hunting  was  practised  after  the  settlement  in 
Canaan,  and  was  pursued  with  the  view  of  obtaining 
food.  Prov.  xii,  27  proves  that  hunting  animals  for 
their  flesh  was  an  established  custom  among  the  He- 
brews, though  the  turn  of  the  passage  may  serve  to 
show  that  at  the  time  it  was  penned  sport  was  the 
chief  aim.  If  hunting  was  not  forbidden  in  the  “year 
of  rest,”  special  provision  was  made  that  not  only  the 
cattle,  but  “the  beast  of  the  field,”  should  be  allowed  to 
enjoy  and  flourish  on  the  nneropped  spontaneous  prod- 
uce of  the  land  (Exod.  xxiii,  11 ; Lev.  xxv,  7).  Ilar- 
mcr  (iv,  357)  says,  “ There  are  various  sorts  of  creatures 
in  the  Holy  Land  proper  for  hunting;  wild  boars,  ante- 
lopes, hares,  etc.,  arc  in  considerable  numbers  there,  and 
one  of  the  Christian  kings  of  Jerusalem  lost  his  life 
( Gesta  Dei,  p.  887)  in  pursuing  a hare.”  That  the  lion 
and  other  ravenous  beasts  of  prey  were  not  wanting  in 
Palestine  many  passages  of  the  llible  make  obvious  (1 
Sam.  xvii,  34;  2 Sam.  xxiii,  20;  1 Kings  xiii,  24;  Har- 
ris, Natural  History  of  the  Bible;  Kitto’s  Pictorial  Pal- 
estine). The  lion  was  even  made  use  of  to  catch  other 
animals  (Ezek.  xix,  3),  and  II armor  long  ago  remarked 
that  as  in  the  vicinity  of  Gaza,  so  also  in  Judaea,  leop- 
ards were  trained  and  used  for  the  same  purpose  (Har- 
nier,  iv.  358 ; Hab.  i,  8).  That  lions  were  taken  by  pit- 
falls  as  well  as  by  nets  appears  from  Ezek.  xix,  4,  8 
(Shaw,  p.  172).  In  the  latter  verse  the  words  of  the 
prophet,  “ and  spread  their  net  over  him”  (comp.  2 Sam. 
xxii,  0),  allude  to  the  custom  of  inclosing  a wide  extent 
of  country  with  nets,  into  which  the  animals  were  driv- 
en by  hunters  (Wilkinson,  Anc.  Egyptians , iii,  4).  The 


spots  thus  inclosed  were  usually  in  a hilly  country  and 
in  the  vicinity  of  water-brooks;  whence  the  propriety 
and  force  of  the  language  of  Psa.  xlii,  1,  “As  the  (hunt- 
ed) hart  panteth  after  the  water-brooks.”  These  places 
were  selected  because  they  were  those  to  which  the  an- 
imals were  in  the  habit  of  repairing  in  the  morning 
and  evening.  Scenes  like  the  one  now  supposed  are 
found  portrayed  in  the  Egyptian  paintings  (Wilkinson). 
Homids  were  used  for  hunting  in  Egypt,  and,  if  the 
passage  in  Josephus  {Ant.  iv,  8,  9)  may  be  considered 
decisive,  iii  Palestine  as  well.  From  Gen.  xxvii,  3, 
“Now  take  thy  weapons,  thy  quiver  and  thy  bow,”  we 
learn  what  arms  were  employed  at  least  in  capturing 
game.  Bulls,  after  being  taken,  were  kept  at  least  for 
a time  in  a net  (Isa.  li,  20).  Various  missiles,  pitfalls, 
snares,  and  gins  were  made  use  of  in  hunting  (Psa.  xei, 
3;  Amos  iii,  5;  2 Sam.  xxiii,  20).  See  the  various  an- 
imals and  means  of  capture  enumerated  above  in  their 
alphabetical  place.  That  hunting  continued  to  be  fol- 
lowed till  towards  the  end  of  the  Jewish  state  appears 
from  Josephus  ( War,  i,  20,  13),  where  the  historian 
speaks  of  Herod  as  “ever  a most  excellent  hunter,  for 
in  one  day  he  caught  forty  wild  beasts.”  The  same 
passage  makes  it  clear  that  horses  were  employed  in  the 
pursuits  of  the  chase  (compare  Josephus,  Ant.  xv,  7,  7 ; 
xvi,  10,  3). — Kitto.  Sec  Chase. 

The  prophets  sometimes  depict  war  under  the  idea 
of  hunting:  “I  will  send  for  many  hunters,”  says  Jere- 
miah, “and  they  shall  hunt  them  from  even'  mountain, 
and  from  every  hill,  and  out  of  the  holes  of  the  rocks” 
(xvi,  16),  referring  to  the  Chaldieans,  who  held  the  Jews 
under  their  dominion,  or,  according  to  others,  to  the  Per- 
sians, who  set  the  Hebrews  at  liberty.  Ezekiel  also 
(xxxii,  30)  speaks  of  the  kings,  who  were  persecutors  of 
the  Jews,  under  the  name  of  hunters.  The  psalmist 
thanks  God  for  having  delivered  him  from  the  snares 
of  the  hunters  [Eng.  trans.  “ fowler”]  (Psa.  xei,  3).  Mi- 
cah  complains  (vii,  2)  that  every  one  lays  ambuscades 
for  his  neighbor,  and  that  one  brother  hunts  after  an- 
other to  destroy  him.  Jeremiah  (Lam.  iii,  52)  repre- 
sents Jerusalem  as  complaining  of  her  enemies,  who 
have  taken  her,  like  a bird,  in  their  nets. — Calmct.  See 
Net. 

Huntingdon,  Selina,  Countess  of,  a lady  distin- 
guished in  the  religious  history  of  the  18th  century,  was 
born  Aug.  24, 1707,  and  was  one  of  the  three  daughters 
and  co-heirs  of  Washington  Shirley,  earl  of  Ferrers.  Se- 
lina, the  second  daughter,  married,  in  1728,  Theophilus 
Hastings,  earl  of  Huntingdon,  a nobleman  of  retired 
habits,  with  whom  she  appears  to  have  had  a very  hap- 
py life  till  his  sudden  death,  on  the  13th  of  October,  1746, 
of  a fit  of  apoplexy.  She  had  many  children,  four  of 
whom  died  in  youth  or  early  manhood.  It  was  proba- 
bly these  domestic  afflictions  which  disposed  this  lady 
to  take  the  course  so  opposite  to  that  which  is  gener- 
ally pursued  by  the  noble  and  the  great.  She  became 
deeply  religious.  It  was  at  the  time  when  the  preach- 
ers and  founders  of  Methodism,  Wesley  and  Whitefield, 
were  rousing  in  the  country,  by  their  exciting  minis- 
try, a spirit  of  more  intense  devotion  than  was  generally 
prevalent,  and  leading  men  to  look  more  to  what  are 
called  the  distinguishing  truths  of  the  Gospel  than  to 
its  moral  teachings,  to  which  the  clergy  had  for  some 
time  chiefly  attended  in  their  public  ministrations.  She 
found  in  these  doctrines  matter  of  consolation  and  de- 
light, and  she  sought  to  make  others  participate  with 
her  in  the  advantages  they  were  believed  by  her  to  af- 
ford. The  character  of  her  religion,  as  well  as  of  her 
mind,  was  too  decided  to  allow  it  to  shrink  from  promi- 
nence ; on  the  contrary,  her  high  soul  compassionated 
the  fearful  condition  of  the  wealthy  and  noble,  and  she 
boldly  sought  to  spread  the  influences  of  Methodism, 
not  only  through  the  highest  aristocracy  of  the  realm, 
but  to  the  royal  family  itself.  She  took  Whitefield  un- 
der her  especial  patronage,  defied  all  ecclesiastical  or- 
der, and  even  engaged  him  to  hold  sendees  in  her  own 
residence,  which  she  invited  her  friends  of  the  nobili- 


IIUNTIN  GFORD 


413 


HUNTINGTON 


ty  to  attend.  She  persuaded  the  highest  ladies  of  the 
court  to  listen  to  the  preaching  of  the  great  evangelists, 
with  an  influence  more  or  less  powerful  upon  some,  and 
a saving  change  in  others.  Among  the  former  were 
the  celebrated  duchess  of  Marlborough  and  the  duchess 
of  Buckingham;  among  the  latter  the  duchess  of  the 
celebrated  Chesterfield,  lady  Ann  Franklaml,  and  lady 
Fanny  Shirley,  the  theme  of  the  admiring  muse  of 
Pope.  She  numbered  among  her  friends  some  of  the 
most  venerated  personages  of  English  history:  Watts, 
Doddridge,  Bomaine,  Venn,  and  the  sainted  Fletcher. 
When  Mr.  Wesley  and  his  conference  of  preachers  came 
to  the  conclusion  that  they  had  “leaned  too  much  to 
Calvinism,”  lady  Huntingdon,  who  had  imbibed  from 
Whitefiehl  the  Calvinism  by  him  imported  from  New 
England,  received  the  impression,  erroneous  but  invet- 
erate, that  Air.  Wesley  denied  the  doctrine  of  justifica- 
tion by  faith,  and  insisted  upon  the  saving  merit  of 
works.  Her  relative,  Rev.  Walter  Shirley,  with  the 
small  remnant  of  Calvinistic  preachers,  called  for  recan- 
tation. A controversy  arose,  in  which  the  virulent 
Toplady  was  chief  champion  of  Calvinism,  and  love  and 
truth,  on  the  Arminian  side,  found  their  model  in  Fletch- 
er. Each  party  went  on,  in  spite  of  the  break,  in  spread- 
ing the  essential  truths  of  the  Gospel  maintained  by 
both.  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Mr.  Wesley  never  again 
met  on  earth ; but  when,  near  the  close  of  her  own  ca- 
reer, she  read  the  dying  ascription  made  by  Mr.  Wesley 
of  his  salvation  to  the  blood  of  the  Lamb,  and  when  she 
learned  from  Wesley’s  fellow-traveller,  Bradford,  that 
such  had  ever  been  the  tenor  of  his  preaching,  her  sold 
melted,  and,  bursting  into  tears,  she  lamented  that  the  1 
unhappy  separation  had  ever  taken  place.  Whitefield 
made  no  attempt  to  found  a separate  sect,  but  the  count- 
ess chose  to  assume  a sort  of  leadership  among  his  fol- 
lowers, and  to  act  herself  as  the  founder  of  a sect,  and 
those  who  might  properly  have  been  called  Whitefield- 
ian  Methodists  came  to  be  known  as  “the  countess  of 
Huntingdon’s  Connection.”  On  Whitefield’s  death  in 
1777  she  was  appointed  by  will  sole  proprietrix  of  all 
his  possessions  in  Georgia  (U.  S.  A.),  and  a residt  of 
this  was  the  organization  of  a mission  to  America.  But 
the  countess  had  also  at  her  own  command  a considera- 
ble income  during  the  forty-four  years  of  her  widow- 
hood, and,  as  her  own  personal  expenses  were  few,  she 
established  and  supported,  with  the  assistance  of  other 
opulent  persons,  members  of  her  own  family,  or  other 
persons  who  were  wrought  upon  as  she  was,  a college 
at  Trevecca,  in  Wales,  for  the  education  of  ministers; 
built  numerous  chapels,  and  assisted  in  the  support  of  the 
ministers  in  them.  She  died  in  1791,  and  the  number 
of  her  chapels  at  the  time  of  her  death  is  stated  to  have 
been  sixty-four,  the  principal  of  which  was  that  at 
Bath,  where  she  herself  frequently  attended.  She  cre- 
ated a trust  for  the  management  of  her  college  and 
chapels  after  her  death.  The  college  was  soon  after  re-  i 
moved  to  Cheshunt,  Herts,  where  it  still  nourishes;  but  | 
her  chapels  have,  for  the  most  part,  become  in  doctrine 
and  practice  almost  identical  with  those  of  the  Congre-  j 
gational  or  Independent  body,  the  chief  distinction  be-  I 
ing  in  the  use  of  a portion  at  least  of  the  “Book  of  | 
Common  Prayer,”  though,  where  not  expressly  directed  i 
in  the  trust-deed,  that  practice  has  in  many  instances 
been  abandoned.  In  1851  there  were,  according  to  the 
census,  109  chapels  belonging  to  the  countess  of  Hunt- 
ingdon’s Connection  in  England  and  Wales.  See  Eng- 
lish Cyclopedia ; Methodist  Quarterly  Review , January, 
1858,  ]t.  162;  Stevens,  Hist,  of  Methodism,  i,  167;  Life 
and  Times  of  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon  (Loud.  1840,  2 
vols.  8vo);  Mudge,  Lady  Huntingdon  portrayed  (New 
York,  1857, 12mo) ; Skeats,  Hist,  of  the  Free  Churches  of 
England,  p.  388  sip 

Huntingford,  George  Isaac,  D.D.,  an  English 
prelate,  was  bom  in  Winchester  in  1748,  and  was  edu- 
cated at  Winchester  School  and  at  New  College,  Ox- 
ford. In  1772  he  became  master  of  Westminster  School ; 
in  1789,  warden  of  Winchester  School ; in  1802,  bishop 


of  Gloucester;  and  in  1815  bishop  of  Hereford.  Tie  died 
in  1832.  Besides  several  Greek  and  Latin  class-books, 
he  published  Thoughts  on  the  Trinity,  with  Charges,  etc. 
(2d  edit.  Loud.  1832,  8vo) ; and  a number  of  occasional 
sermons  and  charges.  Sec  Gentleman's  Magazine,  June 
and  Dec.  1832 ; Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliographica , i,  158 1 ; 
Allibonc,  Dictionary  of  Authors,  i,  924. 

Huntington,  Joseph,  D.I).,  a Congregational 
minister,  was  born  in  1735,  at  Windham,  Conn,  lie 
graduated  at  Yale  College  in  1762,  and  was  ordained 
pastor  of  the  First  Church,  Coventry,  Conn.,  June  29, 
1763,  where  he  died  Dec.  25,  1794.  In  1780  he  was 
made  a member  of  the  board  of  overseers  of  Yale  Col- 
lege. lie  published  A Plea  before  the  Ecclesiastical 
Council  at  Stockbridge  in  the  Case  of  Mrs.  Fiske,  excom- 
municated for  marrying  a profane  Man  (1779): — An 
Address  to  his  A nabaptist  Brethren  (1783): — Thoughts 
on  the  Atonement  of  Christ  (1791): — Calvinism  improved 
(post,  1796) ; and  a few  occasional  sermons. — Sprague, 
Annals,  i,  602. 

Huntington,  Joshua,  a Congregational  minister, 
was  bom  Jan. 31, 1786, at  Norwich,  Conn.  lie  graduated 
at  Yale  College  in  1804,  entered  the  ministry  in  Sept. 
1806,  and  was  ordained  co-pastor  of  the  Old  South 
Church,  Boston,  May  18, 1808,  where  he  labored  until  his 
death,  Sept.  11,1819.  lie  was  one  of  the  founders  of  the 
“American  Educational  Society,”  and  President  of  the 
“ Boston  Society  for  the  Religious  and  Moral  Instruction 
of  the  Poor”  from  its  formation  in  1816. — Sprague,  An- 
nals, ii,  501. 

Huntington,  Robert,  D.D.,a  distinguished  Eng- 
lish theologian  and  Orientalist,  was  born  in  February, 
1636,  at  Dcorhyrst,  in  Gloucestershire,  where  his  father, 
of  the  same  names,  was  parish  clergyman,  lie  was  edu- 
cated at  the  free-school  of  Bristol,  was  admitted  in  1652 
a portionist  of  Merton  College,  Oxford,  received  his  bach- 
elor’s degree  in  1658,  and  was  shortly  after  elected  to  a 
fellowship  in  that  college.  He  took  his  degree  of  mas- 
ter of  arts  in  1663,  and,  having  then  applied  himself  with 
great  success  to  the  study  of  the  Oriental  languages,  he 
was  in  1670  appointed  to  the  situation  of  chaplain  at 
Aleppo.  From  1677  to  1682  he  travelled  in  the  East, 
and  a short  time  after  his  return,  in  1683,  was  appointed 
provost  or  master  of  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  receiving 
about  this  time  the  degree  of  D.I). ; he  resigned  this  po- 
sition in  1691,  and  once  more  returned  to  England.  In 
August,  1692,  he  was  presented  by  Sir  Edward  Turner  to 
the  rectory  of  Great  Ilallingbury,  in  Essex;  and  while 
there  he  married  a sister  of  Sir  John  Powell,  one  of  the 
justices  of  the  King’s  Bench.  In  1701  lie  was  elected 
bishop  of  Raphoe,  but  he  died  before  consecration,  Sept. 
2,  of  this  year.  I)r.  Huntington  is  principally  distin- 
guished for  the  numerous  Oriental  manuscripts  which 
he  procured  while  in  the  East  and  brought  with  him  to 
England.  Besides  those  which  he  purchased  for  arch- 
bishop Marsh  and  bishop  Fell,  he  obtained  between  six 
and  seven  hundred  for  himself,  which  are  now  in  the 
Bodleian  Library,  to  which  he  first  presented  thirty-five 
of  them,  and  then  sold  the  rest  in  1691  for  the  small  sum 
of  £700.  Huntington, however,  missed  the  principal  ob- 
ject of  his  search,  the  very  important  Syriac  version  of 
the  epistles  of  St.  Ignatius, a large  portion  of  which  was 
recovered  in  1843  by  Mr.  Tat  tain  from  one  of  the  very 
monasteries  in  Nitria  which  Huntington  had  visited  in 
the  course  of  his  inquiries.  Several  of  Huntington’s  let- 
ters, which  are  addressed  to  the  archbishop  of  Mount 
Sinai,  contain  inquiries  about  the  manuscript  of  St.  Ig- 
natius, and  the  same  earnest  inquiries  are  made  in  his 
letters  to  the  patriarch  of  Antioch.  Sec  Vita  II.  et  epis- 
tohe , edited  by  Thomas  Smith  (Lond.  1704, 8vo);  Eng- 
lish Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Alii  bone,  Did.  of  A uthors,  i,  924 ; Hook, 
Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  224  ; Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliogr.  i,  1585. 
(J.H.W.) 

Huntington,  William,  a Calvinistic  Methodist 
preacher,  was  born  in  1744.  He  passed  his  early  life  in 
menial  sendee  and  dissipation,  but  after  conversion  he 


HUN Y AD 


414 


HUR 


entered  the  ministry,  and  became  a popular  preacher  in 
London.  On  his  books  he  took  the  title  of  S.  S.,  or  Sinner 
Saved.  He  died  in  1813.  A review  of  his  works  by 
Southey  will  be  found  in  the  Quarterly  Review , xx,  462. 
His  writings  have  been  collected  and  published:  IIorLs 
(London,  1820,  20  vols.  8vo,  and  his  select  works,  edited 
by  his  son,  6 vols.  8vo,  1838,  and  reprinted  in  1856)  : — 
Contemplations  on  the  God  of  Israel,  in  a series  of  letters 
to  a friend  (Sleaford,  1830, 12mo)  : — The  Law  established 
by  the  Faith  of  Christ , a sermon  on  Ilom.  iii,  31  (Lond. 
1786,  8vo) : — The  Epistle  of  Faith  (Loiul.  1789,  8vo) : — 
The  Kingdom  of  Heaven  taken  by  Prayer,  with  Life  of 
the  author  (Andover,  1832,  32mo) : — The  wise  and  fool- 
ish Virgins  described , the  substance  of  two  sermons  on 
Matt,  xxv,  3, 4 (Lond.  1803, 8vo). — Darling,  Cyclopaedia 
Ribliographica,  i,  1586. 

Hunyad,  Johannes  Corvinus.  See  Hungary. 

Hupfeld,  Hermann,  D.D.,  a German  theologian, 
and  one  of  the  most  distinguished  Hebraists  of  Europe, 
son  of  the  clergyman  Bernhard  Karl  Hupfeld,  who  died 
at  Spangenburg,  Hesse,  in  1823,  was  born  March  31, 
1796,  at  Marburg,  and  educated  at  the  university  of  his 
native  place,  under  the  especial  protection  of  the  great 
Orientalist  Arnoldi  (q.v.).  After  preaching  a short 
time  as  assistant  to  the  first  Reformed  preacher  of  Mar- 
burg, he  accepted  in  1819  the  position  as  third  teacher 
at  the  gymnasium  at  Hanau.  He  resigned  in  1822  on 
account  of  impaired  health,  and,  after  a summer’s  jour- 
ney through  Switzerland,  and  the  use  of  mineral  wa- 
ters at  the  springs  of  two  watering-places  in  Wiirtem- 
berg,  he  went  first  to  his  father’s  house  at  Spangenburg 
to  resume  his  theological  studies  and  to  prepare  for  the 
ministry,  and  later  to  the  University  of  Halle,  where  he 
became  acquainted  with  Gesenius,  and  was  led  to  a 
more  thorough  study  of  the  Scriptures,  especially  the 
Old  Testament.  In  1824  he  began  to  lecture  at  the 
university,  and  prepared  an  elaborate  essay  on  the  Etlii- 
opic  language  (Exercitationes  YEthiopicce,  Leipzig,  1825), 
which  was  favorably  received  and  commented  upon  in 
the  Ileidelberger  Jahrbiicher  and  the  Hallisehe  Liieratnr 
Zeitung.  In  1825  he  was  appointed  extraordinary  pro- 
fessor of  theology  at  the  University  of  Marburg,  and  in 
1827,  after  Hartmann’s  death,  professor  ordinarius  of 
the  Oriental  languages,  retaining  the  chair  of  theology, 
which  was  made  a regular  professorship  in  1830.  During 
the  Revolution  of  1830  he  was  on  the  side  of  those  who 
favored  a reform  of  the  ecclesiastical  constitution  of 
Hesse,  and  strongly  opposed  the  conservative  minister 
Hassenpflug.  In  1843  he  went  to  Halle  as  the  successor 
of  Gesenius,  by  whose  influence  Hupfeld  had  received 
the  degree  of  D.D.  in  1834.  During  the  revolution  of 
1848  he  was  active  in  the  interests  of  a popular  form  of 
government,  and  urged  the  establishment  of  a German 
empire  on  a historical  basis.  He  died  April  24, 1866.  In 
theology,  Hupfeld  was  called  orthodox  in  Germany,  but 
in  America  lie  would  be  much  more  likely  to  have  been 
classed  with  “Liberals.”  On  inspiration,  for  instance,  he 
held  that  only  certain  portions  of  the  sacred  writings  are 
of  divine  origin,  and  that  the  Spirit  reveals  to  all  sincere 
readers  the  real  character  of  such  passages.  In  criticism, 
he  belonged  to  the  school  of  his  friend  De  Wette  (q.  v.). 
“ His  researches  were  extensive,  but  guarded  in  their 
deductions  by  his  caution.  In  the  elaboration  of  his 
works  he  was  extremely  fastidious.  A connoisseur  in 
work,  he  could  not  go  on  if  the  machinery  were  not  ex- 
act, if  one  slight  element  were  lacking  to  harmony  and 
completeness.  This  sensibility  sometimes  impeded  the 
activities  of  a mind  whose  powers  of  acquisition  and 
production  were  immense.  In  his  department  he  was 
among  the  first  scholars  of  his  day.  Few  burial-grounds, 
indeed,  inclose  the  ashes  of  two  such  savans  as  Hupfeld 
and  his  predecessor  Gesenius.  At  the  close  of  his  ardu- 
ous life,  when  in  his  seventy-first  year,  his  mental  vigor 
showed  no  decline,  his  diligence  no  slackening.  As  a 
religious  man,  Hupfeld  belonged  to  the  Pietists,  who 
correspond  in  the  religious  scale  with  our  strict  evan- 
gelical Christians.  He  was  a devout  man,  though  not 


after  our  stamp  of  devotion.  It  is  doubtful  whether  he 
knew  anything  by  experience  of  our  immediate  conver- 
sion. Probably  he  was  never  in  a prayer-meeting ; and 
he  looked  upon  revivals  as  questionable,  if  not  objec- 
tionable measures.  Of  devotional  methods  and  exer- 
cises, then,  he  had  limited  knowledge;  but  he  believed, 
nevertheless,  ‘with  the  heart  unto  righteousness.’  He 
lived  as  all  Christians  must  live,  by  faith”  (A'.  Y.  Meth- 
odist, 1866,  No.  313).  Hupfeld  left  mere  monographs, 
the  results  of  most  careful  inquiry  on  certain  points 
bearing  on  the  subjects  to  -which  he  devoted  his  later 
years,  and  but  few  books  proper.  Thus,  in  1841 , he  com- 
menced a Hebrew  grammar,  in  which  he  attempted  to 
pursue  the  same  course  in  the  Shemitic  as  Grimm  did 
in  the  Germanic  language,  viz.  the  development  of  the 
Hebrew  genetically  by  a consideration  of  its  sounds. 
Only  a few  sheets  of  the  work  were  published,  under 
the  title  Kritisches  Lehrb.  der  hebr.  Sprache  and  Schrift 
(Cassel,  1841).  His  most  important  works  are,  Ueber 
d.  Begriff  u.  d.  Methods  d.  bibl.  Einleit.  (Marb.  1844): — , 
De  antiquioribus  apt/d  Judceos  accentumn  seriptoribus 
(Halle,  1846  and  1847,  2 vols.) : — De  primit.  et  verafesto- 
rum  apud  Hebreeos  ratione  (1851,  1852,  1858,  1865,  2 
vols.) : — Qucest.  in  Jobeulos  locos  (1853) : — Die  Quellen  d. 
Genesis  (Berl.  1835)  : — Die  Psalmen,  iibersetzt  u.  erkiart 
(1855-62,4  vols.  8vo;  of  a 2d  ed.,  begun  in  1867  by  Dr. 
Edward  Kiehm,  3 vols.  are  now  [1870]  published) : — Die 
heutige  theosoph.  it.  mytholog.  Theologie  und  Schrifterkld- 
rung  (Berlin,  1861).  A biography  of  Hupfeld  was  pub- 
lished by  Dr.  Riehm  (Dr.  Hermann  llupfeld,  Halle,  1867). 
See  Theol.  Unir.  Lex.  i,  374  ; Pierer,  Unirerscd  Lex.  viii, 
631 ; Stud.  u.  Krit.  1868,  i,  184  sq. ; Jahrb.  deutsch.  Theolog. 
1868,  iv,  758  sq. ; Bib.  Sac.  1866,  p.  673  sq.  (J.  H.W.) 

Hu'pham  (Heb.  Chupham',  ££*n,  according  to 
Gesenius  perh.  coast-man,  according  to  Fiirst  screened; 
Sept,  omits,  but  some  eds.  have  ’O <pdp ; Ynlg.  Huphcim), 
a person  apparently  mentioned  as  one  of  the  sons  of 
[ Benjamin  (Numb,  xxvi,  39) ; elsewhere  less  correctly 
called  Huppim  (Gen.  xlvi,  24).  His  descendants  are 
1 called  Huphamites  (Hebrew  Chuphami',  Sept, 

omits,  but  some  eds.  ’0$apt',Yulg.  Iluphamitce,  Numb, 
xxvi,  39).  B.C.  1856.  The  name  Hnppim  being  in  the 
plur.  (Ileb.  Chttppim',  coverings;  Sept,  omits  in 

Gen.  xlvi,  21,  but  some  copies  have  'QQpiv  or  ’Oeptylfi 
as  a son  of  Bela ; Yulg.  Ophim),  suggests  the  possibility 
that  it  is  a contraction  for  Huphamites.  See  SnurriM. 
The  only  other  passages  where  it  occurs  are  1 Cliron. 
vii,  12  (Sept.  ’Aeptig,  Yulg.  Hapham)  and  15  (Sept. 

Yulg.  Ilapphim),  in  both  which  it  has  the  same 
fraternity  with  Shuppim,  and  in  the  latter  mention  is 
made  of  a sister  Maachah  as  married  to  Machir,  the  son 
of  Manasseh  by  a concubine,  while  in  the  former  IIup- 
pim  and  Shuppim  arc  expressly  called  the  sons  of  Ir, 
apparently  a son  of  Benjamin  additional  to  the  three 
mentioned  in  ver.  6,  but  probably  not  the  Iri  mentioned 
in  ver.  7.  Hence  results  the  probability  that  Hupham, 
whose  descendants  are  thus  spoken  of,  was  a grandson 
of  Benjamin,  and  consequently  a son  of  one  of  his  five 
sons  expressly  named  in  order  in  1 Cliron.  viii,  1,  2,  but 
whether  of  the  fourth  or  fifth  is  uncertain.  See  Ben- 
jamin. 

Hu'phamite  (Numb,  xxvi,  39).  See  IIupiiam. 

Hup 'pah  (Heb.  Chuppah’,  ?15n,  a covering  or  bri- 
dal canopy,  as  in  Psa.  xix,  6;  also  protected,  as  in  Isa. 
iv,  5;  Sept.  'O <p<pd  v.  r.  ’O7 rtpd,  and  even  ’() XX°^0“)> 
the  head  of  the  thirteenth  of  the  twenty-four  classes 
into  which  David  divided  the  priests  (1  Cliron.  xxiv, 
13).  B.C.  1014. 

Hup'pim  (Gen.  xlvi,  21;  1 Chron.  vii,  12).  See 
Hupham. 

Hur  (Heb.  Chur,  “i'n,  a hole,  as  of  a viper,  Isa.  xi, 
8 ; also  a narrow  and  filthy  subterranean  prison,  Isa.  xlii, 
22 ; comp,  the  “ black  hole”  of  Calcutta ; otherwise  no- 
ble ; Sept.  "L2p,  Ovp,  but  Soup  in  Nell,  iii,  9;  Josephus 
"Opog  and  O vptjg),  the  name  of  five  men. 


HURAX 


415 


IIURTE1 


1.  A son  of  Caleb  (Judah’s  great-grandson  through 
Ilezron),  the  first  one  by  his  second  wife  Ephrath,  and 
grandfather  of  Bezalecl  (q.  v.),  the  famous  artificer, 
through  Uri  (l  Chron.  ii,  ID,  50;  iv,  1,  4;  comp,  ii,  20; 
2 Chron.  i,  5;  Exod.  xxxi,  2;  xxxv,  30;  xxxviii,  22). 
B.C.  between  185(5  and  1658.  By  some  (after  Josephus, 
Ant.  iii,  6, 1)  he  has  been  confounded  with  the  following. 

2.  The  husband  of  Miriam,  the  sister  of  Moses,  ac- 
cording to  Josephus  (.1  fit.  iii,  2, 4).  During  the  conflict 
with  the  Amalekites  he  assisted  Aaron  in  sustaining  the 
arms  of3Ioses  in  that  praying  attitude  upon  which  the 
success  of  the  Israelites  was  found  to  depend  (Exod. 
xvii,  10-12);  and  when  Moses  was  absent  on  Sinai  to 
receive  the  law,  he  associated  Hur  with  Aaron  in  charge 
of  the  people  (Exod.  xxv,  14).  B.C.  1658. 

3.  The  fourth  named  of  the  five  princes  or  petty 
kings  of  Midian  C£“T2  ’ir?'2),  who  were  defeated  and 
slain  shortly  before  the  death  of  Moses  by  the  Israelites, 
under  the  leadership  of  Pliinchas,  the  son  of  Elcazar 

^ (Numb,  xxxi,  8;  Josephus,  Ant.  iv,  7,  1).  B.C.  1618. 
In  Josh,  xiii,  21  these  five  Midianites  are  termed 
*}ipPD,  the  vassals  of  Silion , and  are  also  described  as 
dwellers  in  the  land,  which  Keil  (ad  loc.) 
explains  as  meaning  that  they  had  for  a long  time 
dwelt  in  the  land  of  Canaan  with  the  Moabites,  whereas 
the  Amorites  had  only  recently  effected  an  entrance. 
After  the  defeat  of  Sihon  these  chieftains  appear  to 
have  made  common  cause  with  Balak,  the  king  of  Moab 
(Numb.  xxii,4, 7),  and  to  have  joined  with  him  in  urg- 
ing Balaam  to  curse  the  Israelites.  The  evil  counsel  of 
Balaam  having  been  followed,  and  the  Israelites  in  con- 
sequence seduced  into  transgression  (Numb,  xxxi,  16), 
Moses  was  directed  to  make  war  upon  the  Midianites. 
The  latter  were  utterly  defeated,  and  “ Balaam  also,  the 
son  of  Beor,  they  slew  with  the  sword.”  See  Simon. 

4.  A person  whose  son  (Ben-Hur)  was  Solomon’s 
purveyor  in  Mount  Ephraim  (1  Kings  iv,  8).  Josephus 
calls  him  Ures  (OPp>/c),  and  makes  him  to  have  been 
himself  military  governor  of  the  Ephraimites  (.1  nt.  viii, 
2,  3).  B.C.  ante  995. 

5.  Father  of  Kephaiah,  which  latter  is  called  “ruler 
of  the  half  part  of  Jerusalem”  after  the  exile,  and  re- 
paired part  of  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  (Neh.  iii,  9).  B.C. 
ante  446. 

Hu'rai  (Ileb.  Churay',  ^PI,  Chald.  perhaps  linen- 
worker,  otherwise  noble ; Sept.  O opt,  Vidg.  JIurai),  a 
native  of  the  valleys  (“brooks”)  of  Mount  Gnash,  one 
of  David’s  heroes  (1  Chron.  xi,  32) ; called  less  correctly 
in  the  parallel  passage  (2  Sam.  xxiii.  30)  IIiddai.  B.C. 
1046. 

Hu'ram  (a,  1 Chron.  viii.  5;  b,  1 Chron.  xiv,  1, 
marg. ; 2 Chron.  ii,  3,  11, 12 ; viii,  2,  18;  ix,  10,  21 ; c,  2 
Chron.  ii,  13;  iv,  11,  16).  See  IIiram. 

Hurd,  Richard,  D.D.,  an  eminent  English  prelate, 
was  born  at  Congreve,  Staffordshire,  in  1720.  He  was 
admitted  at  Emanuel  College,  Cambridge,  in  1733.  In 
1750,  by  recommendation  of  his  friend,  bishop  Warbur- 
ton  (q.  v.),  he  became  one  of  the  Whitehall  preachers, 
and  in  1757  rector  of  Thurcaston.  lie  afterwards  be- 
came successively  rector  of  Folkton,  Yorkshire,  in  1762, 
preacher  of  Lincoln’s  Inn  in  1765,  archdeacon  of  Glouces- 
ter in  1767,  and  finally  bishop  of  Lichfield  and  Coven- 
try in  1775,  whence  he  was  translated  to  Worcester  in 
1781.  In  1783  he  was  offered  the  archbishopric  of  Can- 
terbury, which  lie  declined.  He  died  in  1808.  His 
Sermons  (5  vols.  8vo),  distinguished  by  elegant  sim- 
plicity of  style,  perspicuity  of  method,  and  acuteness  of 
elucidation,  are  to  be  found,  with  his  other  miscellane- 
ous writings,  in  his  H'orEs  (London,  1811,  8 vols.  8vo). 
His  most  important  contribution  to  theology  is  his  In- 
troduction to  the  Stud if  of  the  Prophecies  (1772,  8vo; 
1788,  2 vols.  8vo;  1839,  edited  by  Bickersteth,  12mo). 
This  was  the  first  of  the  “ Warburtonian  Lectures.” 
Notwithstanding  the  polemical  cast  of  some  of  these 
sermons,  the  clear  exposition  of  the  general  principles 


of  prophecy  and  of  the  claims  which  this  portion  of  the 
sacred  Scriptures  lias  on  the  serious  and  unprejudiced 
attention  of  thoughtful  readers,  conveyed  in  perspicuous 
and  even  elegant  language,  has  secured  a large  amount 
of  popularity  for  the  work  even  up  to  recent  times 
(Kitto,  Bib.  Cyclop,  ii,  343).  lie  also  edited  The  H'o/vb 
of  Warburton  (1788,  7 vols.),  and  published  a Life  of 
I Varburton  (Loud.  1794, 4to).  See  Allibone,  Dictionary 
of  A ut hors,  i,  925 ; Quarterly  Review  (London),  vii,  383 ; 
llallaiu,  Lit.  Ilist.  of  Europe  (4th  edit.,  Loud.  1851),  iii, 
475;  Life  and  Writinys  of  Hurd,  by  Francis  Kilvert 
(Loud.  I860) ; Christ.  Remembrancer , I860,  p.  262 ; North 
British  Rev.  3 1 ay,  1861,  art.  iv;  Hook,  Eccles.  Bioy.  vi, 
225  sq. 


Hurdis,  James,  an  English  divine,  was  born  at 
Bishopstone,  Sussex,  in  1763,  and  was  educated  first  at 
Chichester  School  and  next  at  St.  Mary’s  Hall,  Oxford. 
In  1782  he  was  chosen  demy  of  St.  Mary  Magdalene  Col- 
lege, and  some  time  after  was  made  a fellow.  In  1785 
he  became  curate  of  Burwash,  in  Sussex,  and  in  1791 
was  presented  to  the  living  of  his  native  place.  In 
1793  he  was  elected  to  the  professorship  of  poetry,  hav- 
ing previously  published  some  poems  of  great  excellence. 
He  took  the  degree  of  B.D.  in  1794,  and  that  of  D.D.  in 
1797.  lie  died  Dec.  23,  1801.  Besides  poetical  works, 
Hurdis  published  several  works  of  interest  to  the  Bib- 
lical student.  They  are:  Select  Critical  Remarks  upon 
the  Enylish  Version  of  the  first  ten  Chapters  of  Genesis 
(Lond.  1793,  8vo) : — .4  short  critical  Disquisition  upon 
the  true  Meaning  of  the  Word  E"p‘P]  (Gen.  i,  21)  (ibid. 
1790,  8vo),  in  which  he  contends  that  this  word,  wher- 
ever it  occurs,  signifies  crocodile.  “ His  remarks  on  the 
various  passages  in  which  it  is  found  are,  to  say  the 
least,  very  ingenious.”  He  also  wrote  Twelve  Disserta- 
tions on  the  Nature  and  Occasion  of  Psalm  and  Prophecy 
(ibid.  1800). — Kitto,  Bib.  Cycl.  ii,  343 ; Hook,  Eccl.  Iiiogr. 
vi,  227  sq. ; Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors,  i,  925. 

Hurd  war  (more  accurately  IIardwau,  i.  e.  Gate 
of  JIari),  also  called  Gangadwara  ( Ganges  Gate),  an 
Indian  city,  is  celebrated  on  account  of  the  pilgrimages 
which  are  made  to  it.  More  than  two  million  people 
from  all  parts  of  India  resort  to  this  place  to  take  the 
sacred  bath  in  the  Ganges  (<j.  v.),  that  tlows  by  the  side 
of  it.  As  in  Mecca,  the  occasion  is  also  improved  for 
business  purposes,  and  great  fairs  arc  held  annually  in 
April — Brockhaus,  Cone.  Lex.  viii,  167-8. 


Hu'ri  (Heb.  Churi',  -1  “ n n,  according  to  Geseuius 
perhaps  linen-worker,  like  Arab.  Hariri ; so  also  Fiirst; 
Sept.  Ovpi,  Vidg.  I I uri),  son  of  Jaroah  and  father  of 
Abiliail  of  the  descendants  of  Gad  in  Ilashau  (1  Clirou. 
v,  14).  B.C.  ante  781. 


Huris.  Sec  Houris;  Mohammedanism. 

Hurrion,  John,  an  English  Independent  minister, 
was  born  about  1675.  He  became  pastor  of  a congre- 
gation at  Denton,  Norfolk,  in  1(596.  In  1724  he  re- 
moved to  London  as  minister  to  a congregation  in  Hare 
Court,  and  died  in  1731.  1 le  employed  his  time  great- 

ly in  study,  chiefly  of  the  Church  fathers,  llis  style  is 
natural,  unaffected,  and  manly,  llis  writings  include  a 
Treatise  on  the  Holy  Spirit  (1734.  8vo),  and  a large 


number  of  sermons  and  lectures,  all  of  which  have  been 
collected  ami  published  under  the  title  The  whole  11  orks 
of  John  Hurrion,  now  first  collected;  to  which  is  prefred 
the  Life  of  the  A uthor  (Lond.  1828,3  vols.  12mo).— Dar- 
ling, Cyclopeedia  Biblioyraphica,  i,  1587;  Allibone,  Diet, 
of  Authors,  i,  926;  Loud.  Evany.  May.  Jan.  1 82  / . 


Hurter,  Friedrich  Emanuel  von,  a Swiss  the- 
ologian who  became  a convert  to  Romanism,  was  bom 
at  Schaffhausen  March  19, 1787.  lie  studied  Protestant 
theology  at  the  University  of  Gottingen,  became  pastor 
of  a country  congregation  in  bis  native  canton,  1824, 
first  pastor  of  the  city  of  Schaffhausen,  1835,  antistes 
(chief  of  the  clergy  of  the  canton)  and  dean  of  the  synod. 
His  intimate  association  with  some  of  the  ultramontane 
Roman  Catholics,  and  the  great  attention  paid  him  by 


HUUTEr 


416 


HUSBANDMAN 


communicants  of  the  Church  of  Rome  on  a journey 
through  Bavaria  anil  Austria,  brought  on  him  the  stig- 
ma of  Cryptocatholicism,  ami  he  was  requested  by  his 
colleagues  at  Schatfhausen  to  define  his  position  to  the 
Reformed  Church  in  which  he  held  orders.  As  the  dec- 
laration which  Hurter  made  gave  dissatisfaction  to  his 
Protestant  friends  and  brethren  in  the  ministry,  he  re- 
signed his  position  in  1841,  and  in  June,  1844,  made 
open  declaration  of  his  abjuration  from  the  Reformed 
and  adherence  to  the  Romish  Church.  He  now  devoted 
his  time  mainly  to  the  study  of  history,  and  in  1845  ac- 
cepted a call  to  Vienna  as  imperial  historiographer.  Un- 
der the  liberal  ministry  of  Pillersdorf  he  had  to  resign 
this  position,  but  recovered  it  in  1851,  when  he  was  also 
ennobled.  He  died  at  Gratz  Aug.  27, 18G5.  His  works 
of  especial  interest  to  the  theologian  are,  Geschiehte  des 
Pupates  Innoeenz  III  u.  s.  Zeit alter  (Harub.  1834-42,  4 
vols.  8vo) : — Befeindung  d.  Kathol.  Kirche  in  d.  Schweiz 
(Scliaffh.  1840) : — Geburt  u.  Wiedergeburt  (ibid.  1845,  4 
vols.  8vo ; 4th  ed.  1867,  etc.)  : — Geschiehte  Ferdinand  II 
und  seiner  Eltem  (Sehaff hatis.  1850-64, 1 1 vols.).  The 
researches  made  for  his  history  of  Innocent  HI,  the  Ro- 
man Catholics  claim,  led  to  Hurter’s  conversion  to  their 
Church. — Piercr,  Univ.  Lex.  viii,  633 ; Werner,  Gesch.  der 
Kathol.  Theol.  p.  521  sq. 

Hurter,  Johann  Georg,  a German  Pietist  and 
philanthropist,  was  born  in  the  latter  half  of  the  17th 
century.  Of  his  early  history  we  know  hut  little.  He 
was  pastor  of  a church  at  Schaffhausen  from  1704.  He 
is  often  called  “an  Augustus  Hermann  Francke  in  min- 
iature” on  account  of  the  school  and  orphan-houses 
which  he  built  without  possessing  the  necessary  means, 
relying  solely,  like  Francke,  on  providential  help.  His 
first  undertaking  wras  the  building  of  a school-house  for 
the  instruction  of  the  children  of  his  own  scattered  con- 
gregation. who  were  obliged  to  go  a long  way  to  the 
town  school,  and  of  whom  many  could  not  get  there  at 
all.  “In  December,  1709,  seventy  children,  with  their 
pastor,  Hurter,  at  their  head,  celebrated,  with  prayer 
and  thanksgiving,  their  entrance  into  their  new  house.” 
The  contributions  which  he  had  received  for  the  under- 
taking had  been  so  numerous  and  so  ready  that  on  the 
completion  of  the  school-house  he  decided  to  build  an 
orphan  asylum.  One  benevolent  man  laid  the  comer- 
stone  by  a gift  of  200  florins.  To  make  a beginning, 
one  of  the  rooms  in  the  school-house  was  set  apart  for 
the  reception  of  orphans,  anil  in  July,  171 1 , a widow  with 
seven  cliildren  was  received.  The  contributions  mul- 
tiplied, and  with  them  the  children.  Hurter  contrib- 
uted even  much  of  his  own  means;  and  when  in  1716  he, 
with  other  Pietists,  was  rewarded  for  his  service  by  dep- 
osition from  the  ministry,  he  modestly  secluded  him- 
self in  a little  room  in  liis  orphan  asylum,  and  there 
spent  the  latter  years  of  his  life.  He  died  in  1721. — 
This  article  is  based  altogether  on  Hurst’s  translation 
of  Hagen  bach,  Ilist.  of  the  Church  in  the  18tA  and  19  th 
Centuries  (X.  York,  Scribner  and  Co.,  1869,  2 vols.  8vo), 
i,  181. 

Hurwitz,  Hyman,  a distinguished  Jewish  scholar, 
of  whose  early  life  but  little  is  known,  was.  up  to  the 
time  of  his  death  (about  1850),  professor  of  Hebrew  in 
the  University  College,  London.  He  is  best  known  as 
the  author  of  Vindicice  llebraicce,  or  A Defence  of  the 
Ilcbreio  Scriptures  (Lonil.  1820, 8vo),  which,  at  the  time 
of  its  appearance,  was  highly  commented  upon  by  the 
London  Quarterly  Review,  and  by  Home  in  his  Bibl. 
Bib.  Hurwitz  also  published  a volume  of  Hebrew  Tales, 
collected  chiefly  from  the  Talmud,  to  which  he  pays  a 
very  high  tribute,  and  of  which,  while  endeavoring  to 
free  it  from  the  objection  so  frequently  made  to  some 
of  its  indecent  passages  and  many  contradictions,  he 
says,  “ I do  not  hesitate  to  avow  my  doubts  whether 
there  exists  any  uninspired  work  of  equal  antiquity  that 
contains  more  interesting,  more  various  and  valuable 
information,  than  that  of  the  still-existing  remains  of 
the  ancient  Hebrew  sages.”  In  1807  Hurwitz  began 


the  publication  of  text-books  for  the  study  of  the  He- 
brew language,  which  are  considered  among  the  best 
extant  in  the  English  language.  They  were,  Elements 
of  the  Ilebr.  Lang.  pt.  i,  Orthography  (Lond.  1807,  8vo; 
4th  ed.  1848,  8vo) : — Etymology  and  Syntax  of  the  Ilebr. 
Lang.  (4th  ed.  1850,  8vo) : — Hebrew  Grammar  (4th  ed. 
1850,  8vo). — Etheridge,  Introd.  to  Ilebr.  Lit.  p.  183  sq. ; 
Alii  bone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  926. 

Husband  (prop.  'CUX  or  a man,  avfjp;  also 

^-2,  master,  'rH,  spouse  [in  Exod.  iv,  24,  the  phrase 
“bloody  husband”  has  an  allusion  to  the  matrimonial 
figure  in  the  covenant  of  circumcision  (q.  v.)],  etc.),  a 
married  man,  the  house-band,  or  band  which  connects 
the  whole  family,  and  keeps  it  together.  Johnson  {Engl. 
Diet.  s.  v.)  refers  the  term  to  the  Runic,  house-5o«rfo, 
master  of  the  house ; but  several  of  his  instances  seem 
allied  to  the  sense  of  binding  together,  or  assembling  into 
union.  So  we  say,  to  husband  small  portions  of  things, 
meaning  to  collect  and  unite  them,  to  manage  them  to 
the  greatest  advantage,  etc.,  which  is  by  associating 
them  together;  making  the  most  of  them,  not  by  dis- 
persion, but  by  union.  A man  who  was  betrothed,  hut 
not  actually  married,  was  esteemed  a husband  (Matt, 
i,  16,  20;  Luke  ii,  5).  A man  recently  married  was  ex- 
empt from  going  out  to  war  (Deut.  xx,  7 ; xxiv,  5). 
The  husband  is  described  as  the  head  of  his  wife,  and 
as  having  control  over  her  conduct,  so  as  to  supersede 
her  vows,  etc.  (Numb,  xxx,  6-8).  He  is  also  the  guide 
of  her  youth  (Prov.  ii,  17).  Sarah  called  her  husband 
Abraham  lord,  a title  which  was  continued  long  after 
(Hos.  ii,  16)  [baali,  ray  lord].  The  apostle  Peter  seems 
to  recommend  it  as  a title  implying  great  respect,  as 
well  as  affection  (1  Pet.  iii,  6).  Perhaps  it  was  rather 
used  as  an  appellation  in  public  than  in  private.  Our 
own  word  master  [!/>.]  (and  so  correl  .tively  mistress) 
is  sometimes  used  by  married  women  when  speaking  of 
their  husbands ; but  the  ordinary  use  made  of  this  word 
to  all  persons,  and  on  all  occasions,  deprives  it  of  any 
claim  to  the  expression  of  particular  affection  or  re- 
spect, though  it  was  probably  in  former  ages  implied  by 
it  or  connected  with  it,  as  it  still  is  in  the  instances  of 
proprietors,  chiefs,  teachers,  and  superiors,  whether  in 
civil  life,  in  polite  arts,  or  in  liberal  studies. — Calmet. 
See  Marriage. 

Husbandman  (properly  12*8:,  man  of  the 

ground;  yewpyoc),  one  whose  profession  and  labor  is  to 
cultivate  the  ground.  It  is  among  the  most  ancient 
and  honorable  occupations  (Gen.  ix,  20;  xxvi,  12,  14; 
xxxvii,  7;  Job  i,  2;  Isa.  xxviii,  24-28;  John  xv,  1). 
All  the  Hebrews  who  were  not  consecrated  to  religious 
offices  were  agriculturists.  Husbandmen  at  work  are 
depicted  on  the  ancient  monuments  of  Egypt.  It  was 
remarked  by  the  members  of  the  French  Commission 
that  there  is  a great  similarity  between  the  joyless 
looks  of  the  husbandmen  on  the  monuments  and  the 
sombre  countenances  of  the  modern  fellahs,  whose  toil 
is  so  miserably  remunerated.  In  reference  to  the  hus- 
bandmen of  Syria,  Dr.  Bowring  says,  “The  laboring 
classes,  if  left  to  themselves,  and  allowed  immolested  to 
turn  to  the  best  account  the  natural  fertility  and  rich- 
ness of  the  country,  would  be  in  a highly  favorable  con- 
dition. But  this  cannot  be  considered  as  the  case  when 
their  services  may  be  and  are  called  for  as  often  as  the 
government  require  them,  and  for  which  they  are  al- 
ways inadequately  paid;  they  are  likewise  frequently 
sent  from  one  part  of  the  country  to  another  wholly 
without  their  consent.  The  fellah,  or  peasant,  earns 
little  more  than  a bare  subsistence.  In  Syria  a great 
proportion  of  the  labor  is  done  by  females,  and  they  are 
constantly  seen  carrying  heavy  burdens,  and,  as  in 
Egypt,  a large  portion  of  their  time  is  employed  in  fetch- 
ing water  from  the  wells  for  domestic  use.  They  bring 
home  the  timber  and  brushwood  from  the  forests,  and 
assist  much  in  the  cultivation  of  the  fields.” — Bastow. 
See  Hireling. 

God  is  compared  to  a husbandman  (John  xv,  1 ; 1 


HUSBANDRY 


417  HUSBANDRY 


Cor.  iii,  9) ; and  the  simile  of  land  carefully  cultivated, 
or  of  a vineyard  carefully  dressed,  is  often  used  in  the 
sacred  writings.  The  art  of  husbandry  is  from  God, 
says  the  prophet  Isaiah  (xxviii,  24-28),  and  the  various 
operations  of  it  are  each  in  their  season.  The  sowing 
of  seed,  the  waiting  for  harvest,  the  ingathering  when 
ready,  the  storing  up  in  granaries,  and  the  use  of  the 
products  of  the  earth,  afford  many  points  of  comparison, 
of  apt  figures,  and  similitudes  in  Scripture. — Calmet. 
See  Husbandry. 

Husbandry  (in  Hcb.  by  circumlocution  fi'2'lJS!,  the 
ground;  Gr.  prop.  ysojpyta,  2 Macc.  xii,  2;  also  ytibp- 
ytov,  a. plot  of  tilled  ground,  1 Cor.  iii,  9).  The  culture 
of  the  soil,  although  coeval  with  the  history  of  the  hu- 
man race  (Gen.  ii,  15;  iv,  2;  ix,  20),  was  held  of  sec- 
ondary account  by  the  nomade  Hebrews  of  the  early 
period  (Gen.  xxvi,  12, 14 ; xxxvii,  7 ; see  Job  i,  3 ; comp. 
Harmer,  i,  S8  sq. ; Tolney,  Travels,  i,  291 ; Burckhardt, 
Beduin.  p.  17 ; see  Michaelis,  De  antiquitatibus  cecon.  pa- 
triarch. i,  Halle,  1728,  and  in  Ugolini  Thesaurus , xxiv, 
etc.),  but  by  the  Jewish  lawgiver  it  was  elevated  to  the 
rank  of  a fundamental  institution  of  national  economy 
(Michaelis,  Mas.  Ilccht , i,  249  sq.),  and  hence  became  as- 
siduously and  skilfully  practiced  in  Palestine  (comp.  1 
Sam.  xi,  5;  1 Kings  xix,  19;  2 Chron.  xxvi,  10;  l’rov. 
xxxi,  16;  Ecclus.  vii,  15;  also  Isa.  xxvii,  27,  and  Gcse- 
nius,  ad  loc.),  as  it  continues  in  a good  degree  to  be  at 
the.  present  day  in  the  East.  Upon  the  fields,  which 
were  divided  (if  at  all)  according  to  a vague  land-meas- 
use  termed  a yoke  (‘V22J,  1 Sam.  xiv,  14),  and  occasion- 
ally fenced  in  (see  Knobel,  Zu  Jesaias,  p.  207),  were 
mostly  raised  wheat,  barley,  flax,  lentils  (2  Sam.  xxiii, 
11),  garlic,  and  sometimes  spelt,  beans,  a kind  of  durra 
or  holcus  Cjrn),  cummin,  fennel,  cucumbers,  etc.  (Isa. 
xxviii,  25).  See  these  and  other  vegetables  in  their 
alphabetical  place;  for  the  later  periods,  compare  the 
Mislina,  Chilaim,  i.  The  fertility  of  Palestine  (q.  v.), 
especially  in  many  parts,  made  the  cultivation  tolerably 
easy,  and  it  was  gradually  increased  by  the  clearing 
away  of  forests  (Jer.  iv,  3),  thus  enlarging  the  arable 
plains  (tal>13,  novale;  comp.  Prov.  xiii,  23);  the  hills  (2 
Chron.  xxvi,  10 ; Ezek.  xxxviii,  6,  9)  being  formed  into 
terraces  (compare  Niebuhr,  Beschreib.  156;  Burckhardt, 
Trav.  i,  64),  upon  which  the  earth  was  kept  by  a facing 
of  stones,  while  the  low  grounds  and  flats  along  streams 
were  intersected  by  ditches  (S') *2  “\abs,  Prov.  xxi,  1; 
comp.  Psa.  i,  13)  for  drainage  (comp.  Mishna,  Moed  Ka- 
ton,  i,  1 ; Niebuhr,  Beschr.  156;  Trav.  i,  356,  437 ; Har- 
mer,  ii,  331  sq.),  or,  more  usually,  irrigation  by  means 
of  water-wheels  (Mishna,  Peah,  v,  3).  The  soil  was 
manured  Ci"?^)  sometimes  with  dung  (compare  Jer.  ix, 
22 ; 2 Kings  ix,  37),  sometimes  by  the  ashes  of  burnt 
straw  or  stubble  (Isa.  v,  24 ; xlvii,  14 ; Joel  ii,  5).  More- 
over, the  keeping  of  cattle  on  the  fields  (Pliny,  xviii, 
53),  and  the  leaving  of  the  chaff  in  threshing  (Korte, 
Reisen,  p.  433),  contributed  greatly  to  fertilization.  For 
breaking  up  the  surface  of  the  groimd  (’H’^n,  also  Hi"), 
ploughs  (P'Jin’C  ?),  probably  of  various  construction, 
were  used  (“  Syria  tenui  sulco  arat Pliny,  xviii,  47 ; 
comp.  Theophrast.  Caussce  plant.  iii,  25;  on  H'PX  Joel 
iv,  10,  see  Credner,  ad  loc.).  The  latter,  like  the  har- 
rows, which  were  early  used  for  covering  the  seed  (Pliny, 
xviii,  19,3;  see  Harduin,  ad  loc.),  were  drawn  by  oxen 
(1  Kings  xix,  19  sq. ; Job  i,  14;  Amos  vi,  12)  or  cows 
(Judg.  xiv,  18;  Baba  Mez.  vi,  4),  seldom  by  asses  (Isa. 
xxx,  24 ; comp,  xxxii,  20 ; Varro,  ii,  6,  8,  “ Ubi  levis  est 
terra”),  but  never  with  a yoke  of  the  two  kinds  of  ani- 
mals together  (Deut.  xxii,  10),  as  is  now  customary  in 
the  East  (Niebuhr,  Beschreib.  p.  156) : the  beasts  were 
driven  with  a cudgel  (TS^'S,  goad).  (Delineations  of 
Egyptian  agriculture  may  be  seen  in  Wilkinson,  2d  ser. 
i,  48 ; Eosellini,  M<m.  civ.  table  32,  33.)  See  each  of 
the  above  agricultural  implements  in  its  alphabetical 
place.  The  furrows  (pb P,  *13“^),  among  the  Hebrews, 


probably  ran  usually  lengthwise  and  crosswise  (Pliny, 
xviii,  19 ; Niebuhr,  Beschr.  p.  155).  The  sowing  occur- 
red, for  winter  grain,  in  October  and  November;  for 
summer  fruit,  in  January  or  February;  the  harvest  in 
April.  The  unexceptionable  accounts  of  fifty-fold  and 
hundred-fold  crops  (Gen.  xxvi,  12  [on  the  reading  here, 
see  Tuch,  ad  loc.  J ; Matt,  xiii, 8 sq.;  compare  Josephus, 
War,  iv,  8,  3;  llcrod.  i,  193;  Pliny,  xviii,  47;  Strabo, 
xv,  731 ; xvi,  742;  lleliod.  Alth.  x,  5,  p.  395;  Sonnini, 
Trav.  ii,  306;  Shaw,  Trav.  p.  123;  Burckhardt,  i,  463; 
yet  see  Iiuppcl,  Abyss,  i,  92;  Niebuhr,  Beschreib.  p.  151 
sq.)  seem  to  show  that  the  ancients  sowed  (planted,  i.  c. 
deposited  the  grain,  CVJ,  Isa.  xxviii,  25)  in  drills,  and 
with  wide  spaces  between  (Niebuhr,  Beschreib.  p.  157; 
Brown’s  Travels  in  Africa,  p.  457),  as  Strabo  (xv,  731) 
expressly  says  was  the  case  among  the  Babylonians. 
(Sec  further  under  the  above  terms  respectively;  and 
comp,  generally  Ugolini,  Comment,  de  re  rustica  vet.  Ileb., 
in  his  Thesaur.  xxix ; 11.  G.  Paulsen,  Kaehrichten  vom 
Ackerbau  der  Morgenlander,  llelmstadt,  1748;  id.  A ck- 
erbau  d.  Morgenlander,  llelmstadt,  1748;  Norbery,  Be 
agricultura  orient.,  in  his  Opusc.  Acad,  ii,  474  sqq.;  P. 
G.  Pur  man  n,  5 progr.  de  re  rustica  vet,  llebr.  Franckf. 
1787 ; also  the  Calendar.  Paleest.  cveonom.  by  Buhle  and 
Walch,  Gotting.  1784;  Ileynier,  L' Economic  rurale  des 
A robes;  Wilkinson,  Anc.  Egyptians;  Layard’s  Nineveh, 
1849;  his  Nineveh  and  Babylon,  1853;  Kitto’s  Physical 
Ilist.  of  Palest.  1843.)  See  Agriculture. 

The  legal  regulations  for  the  security  and  promotion 
of  agriculture  among  the  Israelites  (compare  Otho,  Lex. 
Rabb.  p.  23  sq.)  were  the  following : a.  Every  heredi- 
tary or  family  estate  was  inalienable  (Lev.  xxv,  23);  it 
could  indeed  be  sold  for  debt,  but  the  purchaser  held  only 
the  usufruct  of  the  ground ; hence  the  land  itself  revert- 
ed without  redemption  at  the  year  of  jubilee  to  its  ap- 
propriate owner  (Lev.  xxv,  28),  whether  the  original 
possessor  or  his  heirs-at-law;  and  at  any  time  during 
the  interval  before  that  period  it  might  be  redeemed  by 
such  person  on  repayment  of  the  purchase-money  (Lev. 
xxv,  24).  See  Land;  Jubilee,  b.  The  removal  of 
field-lines  marked  by  boundary-stones  (“  tenninP')  was 
strongly  interdicted  (Dent,  xix,  14;  compare  xxvii,  17; 
Prov.  xxii,  28 ; Hos.  v,  10),  as  in  all  ancient  nations 
(comp.  Plato,  Leg.  viii,  p.  843  sq. ; Dougtaei,  A nalect.  i, 
110;  since  these  metes  were  established  with  religious 
ceremonies,  see  Pliny,  xviii,  2;  compare  Ovid,  Fasti,  ii, 
639  sq.);  yet  no  special  penalty  is  denounced  in  law 
against  offenders.  For  any  damage  done  to  a field  or 
its  growth,  whether  by  the  overrunning  of  cattle  or  the 
spreading  of  fire  (Exod.  xxii,  5 sq.),full  satisfaction  w as 
exacted  (Philo,  Opp.  ii,  339  sq.).  But  it  was  not  ac- 
counted a trespass  for  a person  to  pluck  ears  of  grain 
from  a stranger’s  field  with  the  naked  hand  (Deut.  xxiii, 
26;  Matt,  xii,  1;  Luke  vi,  1).  This  last  prescription, 
which  prevails  likewise  among  the  Arabs  in  Palestine 
(Robinson’s  Researches,  ii,  419,  430),  was  also  extended 
to  the  gleanings  (H£P,  comp.  Robinson’s  Res.  iii,  9)  and 
to  the  comers  of  the  field  (see  Mishna,  Peah,  i,  2,  where 
these  are  computed  at  a sixtieth  part  of  the  field),  wdiich 
were  left  for  the  poor,  who  were  in  like  manner  to  share 
in  the  remnants  of  the  produce  of  vineyards  and  fruit- 
trees.  See  Gleaning,  c.  Every  seventh  year  it  was 
ordained  that  all  the  fields  throughout  the  entire  land 
should  lie  fallow’,  and  whatever  grew  spontaneously  be- 
longed to  the  poor  (Lev.  xxv,  4 sq.).  Sec  Sabbatical 
Year.  d.  Various  seeds  were  not  allowed  to  be  planted 
in  the  same  field  (Lev.  xix,  19;  Deut.  xxii,  9).  These 
beneficent  statutes,  however,  were  not  uniformly  ob- 
served by  the  Israelites  (before  the  Exile).  Covetous 
farmers  not  only  suffered  themselves  to  remove  their 
neighbor’s  land-mark  (Hos.  v,  10;  comp.  Job  xxiv,  2), 
but  even  kings  bought  large  tracts  of  land  (i fatifundia ) 
together  (Isa.  v,  8;  Mic.  ii,  2),  so  that  the  entailment 
and  right  of  redemption  of  the  original  possessor  appear 
to  have  fallen  into  disuse ; neither  was  the  Sabbatical 
year  regularly  observed  (Jer.  xxxiv,  8 sq.).  (For  fur- 


IIUSGEX 


418 


HUSK 


ther  agricultural  details,  see  Jahn’s  Bill.  A rclxeol.  chap, 
iv.) — Winer,  i,  17.  See  Farm. 

Hiisgen,  Johann,  a German  Roman  Catholic  di- 
vine, was  horn  at  Giesenkirchen,  near  Cologne,  in  1769. 
In  1792  he  became  vicar  and  teacher  at  his  native  place, 
and  after  filling  different  vicarages,  was  appointed  super- 
intendent over  the  Roman  Catholic  schools  at  Aix-la- 
Chapelle  in  1816,  in  1825  general  vicar  to  archbishop 
Spiegel  of  Desenberg  and  dean  in  Cologne,  and  in  1835, 
upon  the  death  of  the  archbishop,  presiding  officer  of  the 
archiepiscopacy  pro  tem,  in  which  offices  he  greatly  dis- 
tinguished himself  by  his  kind  and  conciliatory  spirit 
towards  all  sects.  He  died  in  1841. — Pierer,  Univ.  Lex. 
viii,  635. 

Hu'shah  (Hebrew  Chushah ',  JT^n,  haste;  Sept. 
’Qadv,  Vulg.  Hosa),  son  of  Ezer  and  grandson  of  Hur, 
of  the  family  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  iv,  4);  whence  proba- 
bly the  patronymic  Hushathite  (Heb.  Chushathi', 
■’PCSin,  Sept.  ’A(7w£(,  OuaaSi),  2 Sam.  xxi,  18;  1 Chron. 
xi,  29;  xx,  4.  He  seems  to  be  the  same  person  called 
SnuAir  in  1 Chron.  iv,  11.  Comp.  IIushan.  B.C.  post 
1612. 

Hu'sliai  (Heb.  Chushay ',  ‘'dW,  quick;  Sept,  and 
Josephus  [Ant.  vii,  9,  2]  Xovai),  called  “the  Archite” 
(q.  v.)  (comp.  Josh,  xvi,  2)  and  “the  king’s  companion,” 

i.  e.  vizier  or  intimate  adviser  (1  Cliron.  xxvii,  33),  a 
post  which  he  doubtless  attained  by  his  eminent  sendees 
to  David  in  defeating  (B.C.cir.  1023)  the  plots  of  Ahith- 
ophel,  in  league  with  the  rebellious  Absalom  (2  Sam. 
xv,  32,  37 ; xvi,  16-18;  xvii,  5-15).  See  Davii*.  Ba- 
anah,  Solomon’s  vicegerent  in  Asher,  was  doubtless  the 
son  of  the  same  (1  Kings  iv,  16). 

Hu'sham  (Heb.  Chusham',  C’l^Pl,  but  defectively 
fcirrt  in  Gen.  xxxvi,  34,  35,  hasty;  Sept.  ’Aawp  and 
’Aatp),  a Temanite,  successor  of  Jobab  and  predecessor 
of  Bedad  among  the  native  princes  of  Mount  Seir  before 
the  usurpation  of  the  Edomites  (Gen.  xxxvi,  34,  35 ; 1 
Chron.  i,  45).  B.C.  long  ante  1093,  and  probably  ante 
1618. 

Hu'shatllite  (2  Sam.  xxi,  18;  xxiii,  27 ; 1 Chron. 
xi,  29;  xx,  4;  xxvi,  11).  See  Hush  ah. 

Hu'sllim  (Heb.  Chushim',  or  defect. 

in  Gen.  xlvi,  23;  1 Chron.  vii,  12,  haste;  Sept.  'Q aip, 
but  ’Aaap,  in  Gen.  xlvi,  23,  and  Aaoft  in  1 Chron.  vii, 
12),  the  name  of  two  men  and  one  woman. 

1.  A son  of  Dan  (Gen.  xlvi,  23) ; more  properly  call- 
ed Siiuham  (Numb,  xxvi,  42).  “ Husliim  figures  prom- 

inently in  the  Jewish  traditions  of  the  recognition  of 
Joseph,  and  of  Jacob’s  burial  at  Hebron.  See  the  quo- 
tations from  the  Midrash  in  Weil’s  Bib.  Legends,  p.  88, 
note,  and  the  Targum  Pseudojon.  on  Gen.  1, 13.  In  the 
latter  he  is  the  executioner  of  Esau”  (Smith). 

2.  A name  given  as  that  of  “the  sons  of  Aher”  or 
Aharah,  the  third  son  of  Benjamin  (1  Chron.  vii,  12; 
comp,  viii,  1),  and  therefore  only  a plur.  form  for  Shu- 
ham  (see  the  foregoing  name,  and  compare  the  fact  that 
the  following  is  a fern,  appellation)  as  a representative 
of  his  brethren.  Comp.  Huphim,  and  see  Benjamin. 
B.C.  post.  1856. 

3.  One  of  the  wives  of  Shaharaim,  of  the  tribe  of 
Benjamin,  in  the  country  of  Moab,  by  whom  he  had 
Ahitub  and  Elpaal  (1  Chron.  viii,  8, 11).  B.C.  cir.  1618. 

Husk  (ST,  zag,  the  skin  of  a grape,  so  called  as  being 
transparent,  Numb,  vi,  4;  lpbj32,  tsiklon',  a sack  for 
grain,  so  called  from  being  tied  together  at  the  mouth,  2 
Kings  iv,  42)  occurs  also  in  Luke  xv,  16  as  a rendering 
of  Kfpdrtov  (from  its  homed  extremities),  in  the  parable 
of  the  prodigal  son,  where  it  is  said  that  “ he  would  fain 
have  filled  his  belly  with  the  husks  that  the  swine  did 
eat ; and  no  man  gave  [even  this  poor  provender,  so 
Meyer,  ad  loc.]  unto  him.”  In  the  Arabic  Version  of 
the  New  Testament,  the  word  kharub,  often  written 
khamub,  is  given  as  a synonym  of  keratia.  According 
to  Celsius,  the  modem  Greeks  have  converted  the  Ar- 


abic name  into  \apovfia,  and  in  a similar  form  it  has 
passed  into  most  European  languages.  Though  with 
us  little  more  than  its  name  is  known,  the  carob-tree  is 
extremely  common  in  the  south  of  Europe,  in  Syria, 
and  in  Egypt.  (See  Thomson,  Land  and  the  Book,  i, 
21.)  The  Arabs  distinguish  it  by  the  name  of  Khar- 
nub  shami — that  is,  the  Syrian  Carob.  The  ancients, 
as  Theophrastus  and  Pliny,  likewise  mention  it  as 
a native  of  Syria.  Celsius  states  that  no  tree  is 
more  frequently  mentioned  in  the  Talmud  (Mishna, 
i,  40;  iv,  164;  vi,  494),  where  its  fruit  is  stated  to 
be  given  as  food  to  cattle  and  swine : it  is  now 
given  to  horses,  asses,  and  mules.  During  the  Penin- 
sular War  the  horses  of  the  British  cavalry  were  often 
fed  on  the  beans  of  the  carob-tree.  Both  Pliny  (Hist. 
Nat.  xv,  23)  and  Columella  (vii,  9)  mention  that  it  was 
given  as  food  to  swine  (comp.  Mishna,  Shaab.  xxiv,  2), 
yet  was  sometimes  eaten  by  men  (Horace,  Epist.n,  1,123; 
Juv.  xi,  58;  Pers.  iii,  55;  Sonnini,  Travels  in  Greece,  p. 
26).  By  some  it  has  been  thought,  but  apparently 
without  reason,  that  it  was  upon  the  husks  of  this  tree 
that  John  the  Baptist  fed  in  the  wilderness:  from  this 
idea,  however,  it  is  often  called  St.  John’s  Bread  and 
Locust-tree.  Ceratia  or  Ceratonia  is  the  name  of  a 


Ceratonia  Siliqua. 


tree  of  the  family  of  leguminous  plants,  of  which  the 
fruit  used  co  be  called  Siliqua  edulis  and  Siliqua  dulcis. 
By  the  Greeks,  as  Galen  and  Paulus  iEgineta,  the  tree 
is*  called  Kip aria,  Ktparwvia,  from  the  resemblance  of 
its  fruit  to  Ktpac,  a horn ; also  avid]  aiyv-ria,  or  Egyp- 
tian fig  (Theophr.  Plant,  i,  18).  The  carob-tree  grows 
in  the  south  of  Europe  and  north  of  Africa,  usually  to  a 
moderate  size,  but  it  sometimes  becomes  very  large, 
with  a trunk  of  great  thickness,  and  affords  an  agreea- 
ble shade.  It  has  been  seen  by  travellers  near  Beth- 
lem  (Kauwolf,  Travels,  p.  458;  Schubert,  iii,  115),  and 
elsewhere  (Robinson’s  Researches,  iii,  54).  Prof.  Hack- 
ett  saw  it  growing  around  Jerusalem,  and  the  fruit  ex- 
posed for  sale  in  the  market  at  Smyrna;  and  he  de- 
scribes its  form  and  uses  ( Illustra . of  Scripture,  p.  129, 
Bost.  1855).  Wilde,  being  in  the  plain  near  Mount 
Carmel,  observed  several  splendid  specimens  of  the  ca- 
rob-tree. On  the  15th  of  March  he  noticed  the  fruit  as 
having  been  perfected.  The  husks  were  scattered  on 
the  ground,  where  some  cattle  had  been  feeding  on 
them.  It  Is  an  evergreen,  and  puts  forth  a great  many 


HUSS 


419 


IIUSS 


branches,  covered  with  large  pinnated  leaves.  The 
blossom  is  of  a reddish  or  dark  purple  color,  and  is  suc- 
ceeded by  large,  slender  pods  or  capsules,  curved  like  a 
horn  or  sickle,  containing  a sweetish  pulp,  and  several 
small,  shining  seeds.  These  pods  are  sometimes  eight 
or  ten  inches  long,  and  an  inch  and  a half  broad;  the 
color  is  dark  brown,  and  the  seeds  which  they  contain 
are  about  the  size  of  an  ordinary  dry  pea,  not  perfectly 
round,  flattened,  hard  and  bitter,  anti  of  a dark  red  color. 
The  quantity  of  pods  borne  by  each  tree  is  very  consid- 
erable, being  often  as  much  as  800  or  900  pounds  weight ; 
they  are  of  a subastringent  taste  when  unripe,  but  when 
come  to  maturity  they  secrete  within  the  husks  and 
around  the  seeds  a sweetish-tasted  pulp.  When  on  the 
tree  the  pods  have  an  unpleasant  odor,  but  when  dried 
upon  hurdles  they  become  eatable,  and  are  valued  by 
poor  people,  and  during  famine  in  the  countries  where 
the  tree  is  grown,  especially  in  Spain  and  Egypt,  and 
by  the  Arabs.  They  are  given  as  food  to  cattle  in 
modern,  as  we  read  they  were  in  ancient  times,  but  at 
the  best  can  only  be  considered  very  poor  fare.  (Sec 
Celsius,  i,  227;  Oedmann,  vi,  137  sq. ; Salmas.  Exercit. 
Plia.  p.  45  sq. ; Hasselquist,  Travels , p.  531;  Arvieux, 
Voyage,  p.  20(3  sq. ; Penny  Cyclopcedia,  s.  v.  Ceratonia.) 

Huss,  John  (more  properly  Hus,  the  other  mode  of 
spelling  his  name  being  a mere  usage  which  has  estab- 
lished itself  in  the  English  language),  was  the  illustrious 
Bohemian  reformer  before  the  Reformation,  and  the  pre- 
cursor of  the  Church. of  the  Bohemian  and  Moravian 
Brethren. 

I.  Sketch  of  his  Life. — He  was  born  July  G,  13G9,  or, 
according  to  some  authorities,  1373,  at  Husinee,  a small 
market-town  of  Bohemia,  on  the  Planitz.  His  parents 
were  common  people,  but  in  good  circumstances  for  their 
station  in  life.  Very  little  is  known  of  his  early  years. 
He  entered  the  University  of  Prague,  and  took  his  first 
degree  in  1393.  The  development  of  his  mind  was  slow, 
but  his  behavior  was  distinguished  by  the  strictest  prob- 
ity and  the  most  genuine  godliness.  In  his  intercourse 
with  others  he  was  modest  and  kind.  A spirit  of  mel- 
ancholy gave  a subdued  tone  to  his  bearing,  lie  was  a 
tall  man,  with  a thin,  pale,  sad  face,  llis  public  career 
began  in  1398,  when  he  was  appointed  a professor  in  the 
university.  In  1401  he  became  dean  of  its  theological 
faculty,  and  in  1402  its  rector.  At  the  same  time  he 
was  pastor  of  the  Bethlehem  Chapel  at  Prague,  erected 
by  John  de  Milheim  (1391),  in  order  to  give  the  people 
an  opportunity  of  hearing  the  Gospel  in  their  native 
tongue,  and  in  this  position  he  exerted  great  influence. 
Multitudes  flocked  to  his  chapel,  among  them  Queen  So- 
phia, who  also  chose  him  for  her  confessor.  Ills  ser- 
mons were  not  oratorical,  but  lucid,  fervent,  and  simple, 
displaying  a thorough  knowledge  of  the  Bible,  and  leav- 
ing an  indelible  impression  upon  the  minds  of  the  peo- 
ple. It  was  from  the  pulpit  of  this  church  that  he  set 
forth  the  truth  with  such  force  as  to  make  Rome  tremble. 
The  Reformation,  which  Huss  may  be  said  to  have  in- 
augurated, may  be  dated  from  the  28th  of  May,  1403, 
when  the  doctrines  of  John  Wickliffe  were  publicly  con- 
demned in  a meeting  of  the  faculties  and  doctors  of  the 
university,  in  spite  of  the  efforts  of  Huss  and  his  friends 
to  prevent  such  a decision.  The  formation  of  two  par- 
ties was  the  result ; the  one  in  favor  of  reform,  the  other 
opposed  to  it.  At  the  head  of  the  first  stood  I hiss,  who 
labored  with  zeal  and  boldness,  uncovering  the  putrid 
sores  of  the  Church,  and  particularly  the  gross  immoral  ■ 
ities  of  the  clergy.  For  a time  Zybnek,  the  archbish- 
op of  Prague,  recognised  the  honesty  of  Huss’s  inten- 
tions. But  soon  disagreements  occurred  between  them  ; 
and  when  thousands  of  students  left  the  university  be- 
cause of  a new  distribution  of  votes  on  academical  occa- 
sions (1409),  which  Huss  had  been  mainly  instrumental 
in  bringing  about,  the  archbishop  openly  arrayed  him- 
self on  the  side  of  his  enemies.  An  opportunity  soon  of- 
fered for  showing  Zybnek’s  ill  will.  The  clergy  of  Prague 
laid  before  him  formal  accusations  of  heresy  against 
Huss,  which  the  latter  met  with  counter  accusations 


against  Zybnek.  Both  appealed  to  the  pope.  In  re- 
sponse, Alexander  V conferred  extraordinary  powers  on 
the  archbishop  to  root  out  heresies  from  his  diocese. 
Accordingly,  the  latter  prohibited  preaching  in  private 
chapels;  caused  more  than  200  volumes  of  Wicklifl'e’s 
writings  to  be  committed  to  the  flames,  amidst  the 
chanting  of  the  Te  Jkum;  and  excommunicated  Huss 
(July  18, 1410).  In  this  emergency  king  Wenzel  came 
to  tiie  rescue,  commanding  Zybnek  to  reimburse  the 
owners  for  the  loss  of  their  books,  and  annulling  the  ban 
against  Huss.  Nor  was  the  prohibition  touching  chap- 
els carried  out.  Meantime  Alexander  died,  and  was  suc- 
ceeded by  John  XXIII,  an  atrocious  wretch,  formerly  a 
pirate,  and  now  the  embodiment  of  vice.  To  him,  Wen- 
zel, the  queen,  many  nobles,  and  Iluss  himself  appealed 
for  redress.  But  the  new  pope  adhered  to  the  policy  of 
his  predecessor,  confirmed  the  acts  of  Zybnek,  and  cited 
Huss  before  his  tribunal  in  person.  The  king,  however, 
sent  two  advocates*  to  Bologna,  where  the  papal  court 
had  its  seat,  to  plead  I loss’s  cause,  and  they  were  join- 
ed by  three  more  delegated  by  1 luss  himself.  But  they 
effected  only  a transfer  of  the  suit  to  other  hands;  while 
an  attempt  on  the  part  of  Zybnek,  at  Prague,  to  lay  an 
interdict  upon  the  city,  caused  an  open  rupture  between 
him  and  the  king,  who  coerced  him  by  violent  means. 
At  last,  in  the  summer  of  1411,  the  archbishop  yielded, 
and  a pacification,  including  Iluss,  was  brought  about. 
But  in  September  of  the  same  year  Zybnek  died,  and 
was  succeeded  b)r  Albicus,  a weak  and  miserly  old  man, 
who  received,  in  the  following  spring  (1412),  a papal 
bull  commanding  a erusade  against  Ladislaus,  king  of 
Naples,  an  adherent  of  the  anti-pope,  and  offering  ple- 
nary indulgence  to  all  who  would  take  part  in  it,  or  con- 
tribute money  towards  its  prosecution.  The  publication 
of  this  bull  put  a sudden  end  to  the  peace  which  had 
been  patched  up  in  the  Church  of  Bohemia.  Iluss  re- 
garded the  bull  as  an  infamous  document,  contrary  to 
all  the  principles  of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  and  at  once 
publicly  took  this  stand.  A number  of  his  friends,  on 
the  contrary,  maintained  that  the  will  of  the  pope  must 
be  obeyed  under  all  circumstances;  they  accordingly 
broke  with  him,  and  went  over  to  the  anti-reform  party. 
Several  of  them  afterwards  became  his  most  embittered 
foes;  and  one  of  them,  Stephen  de  Palec,  was  the  chief 
instigator  of  his  subsequent  condemnation  at  Constance. 
In  nothing  terrified  by  his  adversaries,  however,  Huss 
continued  to  preach  against  the  bull,  and  held  a public 
disputation  upon  it  in  the  aula  of  the  university;  on 
which  occasion  his  friend  and  coadjutor,  Jerome  of 
Prague,  delivered  an  address  of  such  fervid  eloquence 
that  the  students  formed  a fantastical  procession  the 
next  day,  bearing  as  many  copies  of  the  document  as 
they  could  find  to  the  outskirts  of  the  city,  where  they 
were  heaped  up  and  burned.  Iluss  took  no  part  in  these 
proceedings.  King  Wenzel  now  became  alarmed,  lie 
liad  a reputation  to  support  in  Romish  Christendom,  and 
issued  a decree  making  any  further  revilement  of  the 
pope  or  the  papal  bull  punishable  with  death.  In  con- 
sequence, three  young  men  were  executed,  who,  on  the 
following  Sunday,  publicly  gave  the  lie  to  a priest  while 
advocating  the  plenary  indulgence  offered  by  the  pope. 
Iluss  buried  them  in  the  Bethlehem  Chapel,  with  all 
the  rites  of  the  Church,  and  extolled  them  as  martyrs. 
When  John  XXIII  was  informed  of  these  events,  he  ex- 
communicated the  Reformer  a second  time,  ordered  his 
arrest,  commanded  his  chapel  to  be  razed  to  the  ground, 
and  laid  an  interdict  upon  the  whole  city  of  Prague. 
Wenzel  again  interfered,  saved  Iluss  from  arrest,  and 
prevented  the  chapel  from  being  destroyed : but,  as  the 
ban  was  everywhere  published,  and  the  interdict  rigid- 
ly enforced,  he  advised  Huss  to  leave  the  city  for  a time. 
Iluss  obeyed,  and,  after  having  affixed  a protest  to  the 
walls  of  his  chapel,  appealing  from  the  corrupt  Romish 
tribunal  to  the  only  incorruptible  and  infallible  Judge, 
Jesus  Christ,  he  retired  to  the  Castle  of  Kozi  Hradek 
(December,  1412).  There,  and  subsequently  at  the  Castle 
of  Rrakowec,  he  remained  mi  til  August,  1414,  engaged 


HUSS 


420 


HUSS 


in  literary  labors,  which  resulted  in  some  of  the  most  im- 
portant both  of  his  Latin  and  Bohemian  works,  carrying 
on  a voluminous  correspondence,  and  preaching  to  the 
people  of  the  neighboring  villages. 

. Meanwhile  a general  council  of  the  Church  had  been 
called  to  meet  at  Constance  on  the  1st  of  November, 
1414,  under  the  auspices  of  Sigismund,  a brother  of  Wen- 
zel, and  designated  emperor.  This  monarch  invited 
Huss  to  attend,  that  his  cause  might  be  examined  and 
peace  given  to  the  Bohemian  Church.  lie  pledged  him- 
self to  grant  him  a safe-conduct,  and  to  send  him  back 
unharmed,  even  in  the  event  of  his  not  submitting  to 
the  council.  Modern  Romish  historians  try  to  disprove 
the  reality  of  such  a promise.  But  it  is  incontroverti- 
ble. The  instrument  which  Sigismund  actually  furnish- 
ed says : “ Ut  ei  transire,  stare,  morari,  redire  hbere  per- 
mittatis.”  Huss  joyfully  obeyed  the  summons,  for  it 
was  the  great  wish  of  his  heart  to  defend  his  doctrines 
in  the  presence  of  the  assembled  representatives  of  Latin 
Christendom,  and  to  unite  with  them  in  reforming  the 
Church,  for  which  purpose  the  Council  had  been  special- 
ly convened.  Leaving  Prague  on  the  11th  of  October, 
with  testimonials  of  orthodoxy  from  the  papal  inquisi- 
tor and  the  archbishop,  and  accompanied  by  an  escort 
of  nobles  whom  the  king  appointed  to  defend  him,  he 
traveled  through  Bohemia  and  Germany,  held  disputa- 
tions upon  his  doctrines  in  all  the  towns  where  he  pass- 
ed a night,  and  arrived  at  Constance  on  the  3d  of  No- 
vember. The  next  three  weeks  he  spent  in  strict  seclu- 
sion. Sigismund  had  not  yet  come,  and  the  pope  had 
temporarily  suspended  the  sentence  of  excommunication, 
besides  giving  him  the  most  solemn  pledges  for  his  per- 
sonal safety.  But  Stephen  de  Palec  and  others  among 
his  Bohemian  enemies  began  so  persistently  to  incite  the 
ecclesiastics  against  him,  that  he  was  arrested  on  the  28th 
of  November,  and  on  the  6th  of  December  he  was  cast 
into  the  dungeon  of  the  Dominican  monastery.  When 
Sigismund  reached  the  city,  Huss’s  escort  vainly  at- 
tempted to  secure  his  release.  The  emperor  was  per- 
suaded by  the  priests  that  it  would  be  wrong  to  keep 
faith  with  a heretic.  Huss  not  only  remained  a prisoner, 
but,  after  the  lapse  of  three  months,  was  conveyed  to  the 
Castle  of  Gottlieben,  where  a mere  hole,  so  low  that  he 
could  not  stand  upright  in  it,  was  assigned  him  as  his 
cell,  and  where  his  feet  were  fastened  to  a block  with 
heavy  irons,  and  at  night  his  right  arm  was  chained  to 
the  wall.  In  this  miserable  plight  he  remained  from 
the  end  of  March  to  the  beginning  of  June,  in  spite  of  the 
unceasing  efforts  of  his  friends,  and  the  solemn  protest 
of  the  whole  Bohemian  nation. 

Huss  had  three  hearings  before  the  council;  the  first 
on  the  5th  of  June  (1415),  the  second  on  the  7th,  and 
the  third  on  the  8th.  For  the  most  part  they  were 
stormy  .debates,  or  irregular  philippics  against  him.  lie 
was  not  permitted  to  explain  and  defend  his  doctrines. 
An  immediate  and  explicit  recantation  was  required  of 
him,  which  he  declined  giving,  unless  convicted  of  her- 
esy by  the  testimony  of  Christ  and  his  apostles,  After 
the  last  hearing  several  weeks  elapsed,  in  which  every 
conceivable  effort  was  made  to  induce  him  to  recant. 
But  he  remained  firm,  and  calmly  prepared  for  death. 
On  Saturday,  July  6,  he  was  once  more  cited  before  the 
coiuicil,  condemned  as  a heretic,  degraded  from  the  priest- 
hood, and  delivered  into  the  hands  of  the  secular  power 
for  execution.  The  proper  officers  immediately  convey- 
ed him  to  the  outskirts  of  the  city,  where,  at  about  ten 
o’clock  in  the  morning,  he  was  burned  alive  at  the  stake, 
while  the  council  continued  in  session.  He  suffered  with 
the  heroism  of  the  early  martyrs.  His  ashes  were  cast 
into  the  Rhine.  A simple  monument,  erected  by  the 
present  generation  of  his  countrymen,  marks  the  spot. 
Erasmus  pithily  said:  “Joannes  Ilus  exustus,  non  con- 
victus.”  The  tradition  of  a peasant  woman  bringing  a 
fagot  to  the  pile,  and  moving  him  to  exclaim  “O  sancta 
simplicitas !”  is  very  doubtful;  the  other  tradition  of  a 
prophecy  with  regard  to  Luther,  under  the  image  of  a 
swan,  uttered  by  Huss  on  his  way  to  execution,  lacks  all 


historic  basis.  Jerome  of  Prague  (q.  v.),  who  had  stood 
faithfully  by  the  side  of  Huss,  and,  on  the  death  of  his 
friend,  himself  led  the  followers  of  the  lamented  Huss, 
soon  suffered  the  same  fate.  The  disturbances  which 
then  followed  we  treat  under  Hussites. 

II.  lluss's  Literary  Labors. — Besides  the  many  letters 
which  Huss  wrote,  and  which  clearly  set  forth  his  theo- 
logical views,  he  was  the  author  of  fifteen  Bohemian, 
and  a large  number  of  Latin  works.  Of  the  former, 
among  which  his  Postills  and  Treatise  on  Simony  are 
particularly  important,  several  have,  unfortunately,  nev- 
er been  translated,  and  others  remain  in  manuscript.  Of 
the  latter,  his  Tractatus  de  Ecclesia  deserves  to  be  par- 
ticularly mentioned,  together  with  the  polemical  treat- 
ises against  Palec  and  Stanislaus,  that  form  its  supple- 
ments (Ilisioi'ia  et  Monumenta  Joannis  Hus,  i,  243-331, 
ed.of  1715).  Other  of  his  Latin  w'orks  are  of  an  exe- 
getical  character.  He  also  composed  numerous  hymns 
and  didactic  hexameters.  Many  of  his  hymns  were 
adopted  by  the  Bohemian  and  Moravian  Brethren,  and 
some  of  them  are  still  in  use  in  the  Moravian  Church. 
Moreover,  he  carefully  revised  the  old  Bohemian  version 
of  the  Bible,  which  had  been  translated  as  earhr  as  the 
loth  century;  and,  quite  recently,  Palacky,the  great  Bo- 
hemian antiquary  and  historian,  has  discovered  a cate- 
chism in  that  language,  which  he  supposes  to  be  from 
the  pen  of  Huss,  and  which,  no  doubt,  formed  the  basis 
for  the  catechism  of  the  Brethren,  published  in  1522. 
As  a writer  of  his  mother  language  the  merits  of  Huss 
cannot  be  overestimated.  He  purified  it ; fixed  etymo- 
logical and  syntactical  rules,  and  invented  a new  system 
of  orthography,  distinguished  by  its  simplicity  and  pre- 
cision. It  was  brought  into  general  use  by  the  Bohe- 
mian and  Moravian  Brethren  in  the  sixteenth  century, 
since  which  time  it  has  remained  the  acknowledged 
standard.  Ulrich  von  Hutten  was  the  first  to  publish 
the  Latin  works  of  Huss.  The  edition  by  O.  Brunfels 
(Strasb.  1525,  4to,  with  woodcuts),  is  very  scarce.  A 
more  complete  edition  appeared  at  Nuremberg  in  1 558, 
entitled  Ilistoria  et  Monumenta  Joannis  Huss  atque  Hie- 
ronymi  Pragensis,  in  two  fol.  volumes.  Still  more  com- 
plete is  the  edition  of  1715,  which  came  out  at  the  same 
place  with  the  same  title.  A small  but  very  important 
volume  of  his  sermons,  translated  from  a copy  of  the  Bo- 
hemian Postills,  brought  to  Herrnlmt  by  the  Moravian 
refugees,  appeared  at  Gbrlitz  in  1855.  Its  title  reads  as 
follows : Johannes  Hus  Predigten  iiber  die  Sonn-  und  Fest- 
tugs-Erangelien  des  Kirclienjuhrs.  Aus  der  Hbhmischen 
in  die  Deutsche  Sprache  iiber set zt  von  Dr.  Johannes  Ko- 
wotny.  They  are  pre-eminently  sermons  for  the  times, 
and  abound  in  polemics.  His  letters  have  been  trans- 
lated into  English  (Edinb.  1859, 1 vol.)  and  other  mod- 
ern languages.  A collection  of  his  writings  in  Bohemi- 
an was  begun  by  Erben  (Prague,  18G4,  etc.). 

III.  Huss's  Theological  Yicu-s,  and  the  Princijdes  of  his 
Reformation. — The  views  of  Huss  were  moulded  by  the 
writings  of  two  men  in  particular ; the  one  Matthias  of 
Janow,  a Bohemian,  the  other  Wickliffe,  the  English 
Reformer.  lie  was  attracted  by  the  latter,  inasmuch  as 
Wickliffe  always  traced  the  truth  up  to  its  source  in  the 
New  Testament,  and  desired  to  renew  Christianity  in  its 
apostolic  sense.  Hence  he  made  him  his  guide  in  those 
principles  which  he  had,  first  of  all,  learned  from  Janow, 
but  which  Wickliffe  developed  more  fully  and  consistent- 
ly. Not  having  passed  through  the  same  conflict  which 
brought  Luther  into  the  inner  sanctuary’  of  divine  grace, 
through  Christ,  and  justification  by  faith,  he  did  not  turn 
his  attention  so  much  to  doctrine  as  to  practice,  and  set 
forth  the  Saviour  of  the  world  rather  from  the  stand- 
point of  that  perfect  law  whereof  he  is  the  author,  than 
from  that  of  his  redeeming  work.  As  a necessary  con- 
sequence, he  insisted  more  upon  the  reformation  of  the 
Church  in  regard  to  life  than  in  regard  to  its  unsound 
and  corrupt  dogmatical  views.  This  was  the  weak 
point  of  his  Reformation,  bringing  it  to  a premature  end, 
and  him  to  the  stake.  In  order  to  success,  an  absolute 
reform  of  the  dogmas  of  the  Church  was  essential.  Huss 


HUSSEY 

did  not  see  this,  because  he  had  formed  no  plan  of  oper- 
ations antagonistical  to  Rome.  He  advanced,  not  in 
obedience  to  a systematic  process  inwardly  developed, 
but  under  the  influence  of  outward  circumstances.  While 
Christ  was  the  centre  of  his  own  faith,  and  he  held  to 
Christ’s  Word  alone  as  the  norm  of  the  faith  of  all,  he 
did  not,  on  that  account,  reject  Romish  dogmas  until  lie 
became  conscious  of  a contradiction  between  them  and 
the  Scriptures.  The  more  any  theological  question  was 
made  prominent  by  the  circumstances  of  the  times,  the 
more  clearly  he  apprehended  the  truth  in  its  evangel- 
ical import.  Upon  some  points,  however,  as,  for  in- 
stance, the  seven  sacraments,  and  transnbstantiation  in 
the  Lord’s  Supper,  he  never  changed  the  views  which 
were  his  by  education.  No  outward  impulse  was  given 
him  to  investigate  these  points  in  a reformatory  spirit. 
So  also  he  allowed,  with  eertain  qualifications  and  great 
caution,  prayers  for  the  dead,  although  he  did  not  deem 
them  of  any  importance ; also  confession  to  a priest  and 
absolution,  though  none,  he  said,  eould  forgive  sins  but 
God  only ; and  he  was,  at  first,  satisfied  with  the  holy 
communion  in  one  kind.  When  this  latter  usage,  how- 
ever, grew  to  be  a subject  of  dispute  between  the  na- 
tional and  the  Romish  party  in  Bohemia,  he  emphatic- 
ally endorsed  the  position  of  Jacobellns  of  Mies,  who 
was  the  great  advocate  of  the  cup.  For  an  exposition 
of  his  views  on  the  Church,  as  set  forth  in  the  work 
mentioned  above,  see  Neander’s  Kirchpigeschichte,  vi, 
395,  etc.,  or  Torrey’s  Translation , v,  299,  as  also  Gillett’s 
Life  and  Times  oflluss,  i,  244,  etc.  In  general,  it  may 
be  said  that  it  was  not  until  his  trial  before  the  council 
that  he  recognised  the  necessity  of  breaking  with  the 
Church  of  Rome  in  order  to  effect  a reformation.  If  he 
had  been  able,  at  that  time,  to  escape  from  the  hands  of 
his  enemies  and  return  to  Bohemia,  he  would  have  been 
the  Luther  of  the  world,  and  Protestantism  would  have 
begun  its  enlightening  course  a century  earlier.  See 
Reformation.  While  Huss  failed  to  bring  about  a 
general  reformation,  his  principles,  developed  and  puri- 
fied, found  an  ecclesiastical  form  forty-two  years  later 
in  the  Church  of  the  Brethren,  and  have,  through  that 
channel,  come  down  to  the  present  day  as  a power  in 
Christendom.  See  Moravians. 

IV.  Literature. — For  a study  of  the  life  of  IIuss,  in 
addition  to  the  histories  of  the  Council  of  Constance,  the 
most  important  works  are:  Lebensbeschreibung  des  M. 
Johannes  Hus  von  llussinecz , von  Aug.  Zitte,  Weltpriest- 
er  (Prague,  1790) ; an  anonymous  history,  in  German, 
“Of  the  manner  in  v'hich  the  Hob/  Gospel , together  with 
John  Huss , was  condemned  in  the  Council  of  Constance  by 
the  Pope  and  his  faction,”  written  by  an  eye-witness,  and 
published  in  1548;  Becker’s  Life  of  IIuss;  Koehler’s  Huss 
und  seine  Zeit ; Hist,  of  the  Hussites,  by  Cochleius ; Hodg- 
son, Reformers,  p.  123  sq.;  Neander’s  Kirchengeschichte, 
vi;  Gillett’s  Life  and  Times  of  John  IIuss ; and  especial- 
ly Palacky,  F.,  Geschichte  von  Bolimen,  iii,  pt.  i,  c.  iii-v ; 
Palacky,  F.,  Documenta  Mag.  J.  Hus  vitam , doctrinam, 
causam  in  Cone.  Constant,  actam,  etc.,  nunc  ex  ipsis  fonti- 
bus  hausta  (Prag.  18G9) ; Bounechose  (Emile  de),  Les 
Reformation  avant  la  Reforme  (Paris,  1847,  2 vols. 
12mo) ; Good  Words,  dan.  6,  18GG,  p.  21  sq. ; Ranke,  Hist, 
of  the  Popes,  ii,  79  sq. ; Zitte,  Lebenbeschreib.  d.  Mag.  J. 
IIuss  (Prag.  1789-95, 2 vols.) ; Wendt,  Gesch.  v.  IIuss  und 
d.  Uussiten  (Magdeb.  1845) ; Helfert,  Huss  u.  Hieronymus 
(Prag.  1853);  Behringer,  D.Kirche  Christi  r.ihre  Zeugen 
(ultramontane)  (Zlir.  1858,  vol.  ii,  pt.  iv);  Krummel,  J. 
IIuss  (Darmst.  1863);  Holler,  Mag.  J.  IIuss  (Prague, 
18G4) ; Contemp.  Rev.  April  and  Julv,  18G9 ; Stud.  u.  Krit. 
18G3,  iv,  Meth.  Quart.  Rev.  1864,  p.  17G.  (E.  DE  S.) 

Hussey,  Robert,  B.D.,  an  eminent  minister  of  the 
Church  of  England,  was  born  at  Sunderland,  Kent,  Oct. 
7, 1801.  He  studied  at  Christ  Church,  Oxford,  and  grad- 
uated in  1825  with  great  credit.  He  discharged  for  a 
while  the  office  of  proctor,  and  was  afterwards  appoint- 
ed one  of  the  public  examiners  in  the  classical  school. 
In  1837  he  took  the  degree  of  B.D.  In  1842  he  was  ap- 
pointed regius  professor  of  ecclesiastical  history,  which 


HUSSITES 

position  he  held  until  his  death,  December  2, 1858.  Hus- 
sey possessed  an  immense  fund  of  information,  to  which 
his  numerous  works  on  all  kinds  of  subjects  bear  full  tes- 
timony. The  principal  of  these  are : Sermons,  mostly 
academical,  with  a preface  containing  a refutation  of  the 
theory  founded  upon  the  Syriac  fragment  of  the  epistles 
of  St.  Ignatius  (Oxf.  1849, 8vo) : — The  Papal  Supremacy, 
its  Rise  and  Progress,  traced  in  three  Lectures  { Lond.  1851, 
8vo),  This  little  work  demonstrates  that  “the  papal 
system  grew  up  and  increased  by  means  of  usurpation 
and  frequent  acts  of  oppression,  favored  by  the  weakness 
of  other  parts  of  the  Church,  and  the  vices  of  ages.”  He 
had  previously  prepared  for  the  University  Press  an  edi- 
tion of  Homer's  Odyssey  (Oxf.  1827)  : — also  the  Latin 
text  of  Bede’s  Ecclesiastical  History  of  England,  with 
short  notes  (Oxf.  184G) : — and  the  Greek  text  of  Soc- 
rates’s Ecclesiastical  History  (1844).  In  1G53  he  edited 
again  for  the  University  Press  another  edition  of  Soc- 
rates, and  this  time  not  a mere  text-book  for  his  lec- 
tures, but  an  elaborate  edition,  with  a Latin  version, 
notes,  and  index,  forming  three  volumes  8vo.  In  1854 
he  published  a sermon,  by  request,  on  University  Pros- 
pects  and  University  Duties,  and  in  185G  an  ordination 
sermon  on  The  A tonement.  An  edition  of  Sozomen  was 
suspended  by  his  death. 

Hussites,  a general  name  for  the  followers  of  John 
Huss  (q.  v.).  The  Council  of  Constance,  in  its  dealings 
with  IIuss,  seems  to  have  forgotten  that  the  adherents 
to  his  cause  were  not  the  handful  of  men  who  had  gath- 
ered around  their  friend  and  teacher  in  his  last  hours, 
but  were  scattered  throughout  Bohemia  and  Moravia. 
No  sooner  had  the  news  of  the  execution  oflluss  reach- 
ed them  than  disturbances  became  the  order  of  the  day. 
Everywhere  in  the  two  kingdoms  named  the  life  of  the 
priests  was  in  danger.  The  archbishop  of  Albicus  (q.  v.) 
himself  was  obliged  to  flee  for  his  life.  King  Wences- 
laus,  of  Bohemia,  was  indignant  at  the  action  of  the 
council,  and  the  queen  hesitated  not  to  espouse  openly 
the  cause  of  the  Hussites.  September  3, 1415,  the  Diet 
of  Bohemia  addressed  a manifesto  to  the  council,  full  of 
reproaches  and  threats;  and  September  5 it  voted  that 
every  landowner  should  be  free  to  have  the  doctrines 
of  Huss  preached  on  bis  estate.  Fearful  of  the  danger 
threatened,  the  priesthood,  and,  indeed,  all  strict  adher- 
ents of  the  Romish  Church,  formed  (October  1)  a league 
(Herrenbund),  vowing  obedience  to  the  council  and  fidel- 
ity to  the  Romish  Church.  Encouraged  by  these  asso- 
ciations, deemed  strong  enough  not  only  to  oppose  suc- 
cessfully any  further  attacks  on  Romanists,  hut  even 
any  further  inroads  of  the  heretics  among  the  people, 
the  council  assumed  a more  authoritative  position.  Not 
satisfied  with  the  mischief  it  had  already  done,  it  now 
threatened  all  adherents  of  Huss  with  ecclesiastical  pun- 
ishments. Jerome  of  Prague  (q.  v.),  the  friend  and  dis- 
ciple of  Huss,  was  the  first  to  suffer.  He  was  summon- 
ed before  the  council,  summarily  tried  and  condemned, 
and,  like  his  master,  burned  at  the  stake  (May  30, 1416). 
The  452  signers  of  a protest  against  the  execution  of 
Huss  were  the  next  summoned  before  the  bar  of  the 
council  to  answer  for  their  heretical  conduct.  Indeed, 
had  not  the  emperor  Sigismund  interfered,  the  king  and 
queen  of  the  Bohemians  would  have  been  added  to  this 
number.  But  the  execution  of  Jerome,  following  that 
of  Huss,  was  too  great  an  outrage  in  the  ej'es  of  the  Bo- 
hemians not  to  destroy  the  last  vestige  of  respect  for  the 
body  by  whose  order  these  atrocious  deeds  were  commit- 
ted. The  threats  of  the  council  became  to  them  a mere 
brutum  fulmen.  They  treated  them  with  contempt. 

Meanwhile,  the  adherents  of  Huss  had  divided  into 
two  parties,  the' moderate  and  the  extreme.  The  mod- 
erate party,  led  by  the  University  of  Prague,  took  the 
name  of  Calixtines  (q.  v.),  who  derived  their  name  from 
the  chalice  ( calix ),  holding  that  communion  in  both 
kinds  was  essential  to  the  sacrament;  and  the  extreme 
party,  called  the  Taborites,  from  the  mountain  Tabor 
(now  Austin),  which  was  originally  their  headquarters. 
Here,  where  Huss  himself  had  formerly  preached,  they 


421 


HUSSITES 


422 


HUSSITES 


assembled  in  the  open  air,  sometimes  to  the  number  of 
over  40,000,  and  partook  of  communion  under  both  kinds 
on  tables  erected  for  the  occasion.  The  Calixtincs  pre- 
served the  belief  in  purgatory,  praying  for  the  dead, 
images  of  the  saints,  holy  water,  etc.;  but  in  March, 
1417,  they  declared  openly  for  the  right  of  all  to  receive 
communion  in  both  kinds.  In  consequence  of  this  dec- 
laration, all  the  privileges  of  the  university  were  sus- 
pended by  the  council,  and  the  forcible  abolition  of  the 
heresy  demanded  by  pope  Martin  Y.  In  the  early  part 
of  1419.  king  Wenceslaus,  unwilling  to  lose  the  favor  of 
either  party,  and  fearing  the  wrath  of  Rome,  decreed 
the  restoration  of  Roman  Catholic  priests  to  their  for- 
mer offices.  But  no  sooner  had  the  Romanists  learned 
of  the  enactments  in  their  favor  than  they  attacked  the 
Hussites,  and  began  all  manner  of  persecutions  against 
them..  February  22,  1418,  Martin  V issued  a bull  against 
the  followers  of  Wickliffe  and  Huss.  All  who  should  be 
found  “to  think  or  teach  otherwise  than  as  the  holy 
Roman  Catholic  Church  thinks  or  teaches;”  all  who 
held  the  doctrines,  or  defended  the  characters  of  Huss  or 
Wickliffe,  were  to  be  delivered  over  to  the  secular  arm 
for  punishment  as  heretics.  The  document  is  a model 
from  which  bigoted  intolerance  and  persecution  might  | 
copy  and  exhausts  the  odium  of  language  in  describing 
the  character  of  the  objects  of  its  vengeance.  They  are 
“schismatic,  seditious,  impelled  by  Lnciferian  pride  and 
wolfish  rage,  duped  by  devilish  tricks,  tied  together  by 
the  tail,  however  scattered  over  the  world,  and  thus 
leagued  in  favor  of  Wickliffe,  Huss,  and  Jerome.  These 
pestilent  persons  had  obstinately  sown  their  perverse 
dogmas,  while  at  first  the  prelates  and  ecclesiastical  au- 
thority had  shown  themselves  to  be  only  dumb  dogs, 
unwilling  to  bark,  or  to  restrain,  according  to  the  canons, 
these  deceitful  and  pestiferous  heresiarehs.”  These  in- 
tolerant measures  added  strength  to  the  party  whom  it 
- was  their  object  to  extirpate.  The  Bohemians,  threat- 
ened at  home  by  a feeble  and  vacillating  king,  and  abroad 
bv  the  official  emissaries' of  the  papal  pontiff,  felt  them- 
selves obliged  to  gather  m numbers  for  self-defence,  and 
chose  Nicholas  of  Hussineez  (q.  v.)  and  John  Zisea  (q. 
v.)  as  their  leaders.  They  also  prepared  an  answer  to 
the  bull,  and  circulated  it  far  and  wide.  It  was  entitled 
“ A faithful  and  Christian  Exhortation  of  the  Bohemians 
to  Kings  and  Princes , to  stir  them  vp  to  the  zeal  of  the 
Gospel,"  and  was  signed  by  four  of  their  leading  cap- 
tains. “ It  is  honorable  at  once  to  their  courage,  their 
prudence,  their  Christian  intelligence,  and  their  regard 
for  the  supreme  authority  of  the  Word  of  God.”  Their 
first  aim  was  to  secure,  if  possible,  the  capital  of  the  king- 
dom. July  30,  Zisea  entered  the  old  city,  or  that  part 
of  the  city  in  which  resided  the  reformers,  and  pre- 
pared for  an  assault  on  the  new  city,  joined  by  the  in- 
habitants of  the  old.  His  aim,  however,  for  the  present, 
was  only  to  intimidate  the  papal  party.  After  Zisea 
had  gained  the  city,  some  of  his  men  sought  entrance  in 
churches  to  observe  their  religious  rites.  They  were 
denied  admission  to  some  of  them,  and  the  consequence 
was  a forcible  entrance,  and  the  summary  execution  of 
the  fanatic  priests.  With  the  council  of  the  city  also 
they  experienced  trouble.  While  a number  of  the 
Hussites  were  in  a procession  from  one  of  the  churches, 
their  minister,  bearing  the  chalice,  was  struck  by  a 
stone  which  had  been  thrown  from  one  of  the  windows 
of  the  state-house.  The  Hussites  became  enraged. 
Under  the  command  of  Zisea  himself,  the  state-house 
was  stormed.  Seven  of  the  councillors,  who  had  been 
unable  to  make  their  escape,  were  thrown  from  the 
upper  windows  and  impaled  on  the  pikes  of  the  soldiers 
below.  The  king,  when  the  news  reached  him,  be- 
came so  excited  that  he  died  of  a tit  of  apoplexy.  Gen- 
eral anarchy  now  ensued.  The  Hussites,  undisputed 
masters  of  Prague,  restored  the  forms  of  civil  govern- 
ment by  the  appointment  of  four  magistrates  to  hold  of- 
fice until  the  next  general  election,  and  then  withdrew, 
under  Zisea,  to  Pilsen.  The  queen  Sophia  sought  not 
only  to  secure  the  aid  of  the  emperor  Sigismund  against 


these  armed  heretics,  but  even  endeavored  to  influence 
the  citizens  of  Prague  to  admit  Sigismund  as  the  suc- 
cessor of  Wenceslaus.  The  people  appealed  to  Zisea  for 
aid  against  the  probable  invasion  of  the  city  by  Sigis- 
mund. November  4,  1419,  Zisea  re-entered  the  city. 
The  emperor,  involved  in  a war  with  the  Turks,  neglect- 
ed at  first  to  attend  to  Bohemia.  Finally,  in  1420,  he 
besieged  Prague,  but  was  driven  from  his  positions. 

Widely  differing  in  their  political  and  religious  senti- 
ments, the  Hussites  became  daily  more  divided.  Some 
favored  the  Calixtines,  others  the  Taborites,  and  between 
these  two  parties  strong  jealousies  were  constantly  spring- 
ing up.  In  the  old  town  of  Prague  the  Calixtines  pre- 
vailed, in  the  new  the  Taborites  held  sway,  and,  finding 
it  thus  difficult  to  satisfy  and  please  all  parties,  and  even 
fearing  a union  of  the  Calixtines  with  the  Royalists,  Zis- 
ea finally  withdrew  to  the  country.  During  the  siege 
the  Praguers  had  presented  to  the  emperor,  as  condi- 
tions of  submission  and  adherence  to  him  as  subjects, 
four  articles  (/I  rticles  of  Prague).  These  were  stipula- 
tions for,  1,  the  free  and  nntrammeled  preaching  of  the 
Word  of  God,  throughout  the  kingdom  of  Bavaria,  by 
evangelical  preachers ; 2,  the  free  use  of  communion  in 
both  kinds  by  all  true  Christians  who  had  not  committed 
mortal  sin ; 3,  the  keeping  of  all  priests  and  monks  out 
of  any  temporal  power,  and  obliging  them  to  live  accord- 
ing to  the  example  of  Christ  and  the  apostles;  4,  the 
punishment  of  all  mortal  sins,  and  of  all  disorders  con- 
trary to  the  law  of  God  committed  by  the  priests.  The 
Taborites,  however,  presented  no  less  than  twelve  arti- 
cles, namely,  the  suppression  of  all  unnecessary  church- 
[ es,  altars,  images,  etc. ; the  application  of  capital  punish- 
j ment  for  other  sins,  such  as  drinking  in  taverns,  luxury 
in  clothes  or  in  the  style  of  living,  etc.  But  the  con- 
j tinued  persecutions  of  the  Hussites,  and  the  unqualified 
i approval  of  them  by  Sigismund,  ever  united  the  two  par- 
| ties  for  common  defence.  March  1, 1420,  Martin  V in- 
vited a regular  crusade  against  them, incited  thereto  in  a 
great  measure,  no  doubt,  by  Sigismund,  who  felt  himself 
too  weak  to  gain  the  kingdom  with  his  army.  The  Huss- 
ites were  now  to  be  dealt  with  as  “rebels  against  the  Ro- 
man Church,  and  as  heretics;”  and  the  emperor  exerted 
himself  for  the  publication  of  this  bull  throughout  his 
dominions.  Even  more  than  the  previous  documents  of 
like  character,  it  shows  the  blind  zeal  and  persecuting 
bigotry  of  Rome.  A Christian,  not  a heathen  people, 
were  now,  however,  to  be  the  objects  of  its  vengeance 
— “ a people  whose  great  heresy  was  that  they  made 
the  Word  of  God  their  supreme  authoiity.  and  con- 
tended for  the  institutions  of  the  Gospel  in  their  prim- 
itive simplicity  and  integrity.”  To  animate  his  fol- 
lowers with  greater  fervor  in  the  execution  of  the  bull, 
the  pope,  “by  the  mercy  of  Almighty  God,  and  the 
authority  of  the  holy  apostles  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul,  as 
well  as  by  the  power  of  binding  and  loosing  bestowed  by 
God  upon  himself,  granted  to  those  who  should  enter 
upon  the  crusade,  or  to  such  even  as  should  die  upon 
the  road,  plenary  pardon  of  their  sins,  . . . and  eternal 
salvation;"  and  to  such  as  could  not  go  in  person,  but 
contributed  to  it  in  any  wis  a,  full  remission  of  their  sins. 
Thus  “all  Christendom,  with  its  generals  and  armies, 
was  summoned  to  crush  out  the  heresies  of  men  whom 
the  council  chose  to  burn  rather  than  refute.”  “ But  the 
result  disappointed  all  human  expectations.  The  forces 
of  the  empire  dashed  and  shattered  themselves  against 
the  invincible  resolution  and  desperate  courage  of  a band 
of  men  sustained  by  religious  enthusiasm,  and  conducted 
by  able  generals.” 

Measures  for  defence  were  at  once  taken  by  the  Huss- 
ites. The  citizens  of  Prague,  who  had  frequently  been 
divided,  now  united  against  the  common  foe.  Calixtine 
and  Taborite  were  ready  to  join  hands  in  a league  of  mu- 
tual defence.  Never  was  there  a more  signal  defeat  than 
the  imperial  forces  now  sustained,  although  their  army 
was  140,000  to  150,000  strong.  Prague  was  the  first 
city  freed  from  the  beleaguering  enemy;  but  the  great 
battle  which  decided  the  fate  of  the  Imperialists  was 


HUSSITES 


423 


HUSSITES 


fought  at  Galgenberg  or  Witkow,  known  thereafter  as  I 
the  Ziscaherg  (Hill  of  Zisca).  Yet  the  opposition  of  the 
Taborites  to  all  hierarchical  pomp,  and  the  threatened 
ruin  of  some  of  the  most  splendid  structures  of  Prague, 
inclined  the  Calixtines,  as  soon  as  the  danger  had  pass- 
ed, to  accept  the  terms  of  peace  which  Sigismund  seem- 
ed very  anxious  to  graut,  provided,  however,  they  could 
iuducc  the  emperor  at  the  same  time  to  remove  the 
stigma  of  heresy  which  rested  on  the  four  “Articles  of 
Prague.”  This  they  failed  to  accomplish,  and  peace 
was  further  delayed.  A second  and  third  attempt  of 
Sigismund  at  pacification  met  with  no  better  success. 
An  effort  was  now  made  to  compromise  the  differences 
between  the  Calixtines  and  Taborites.  But  the  great- 
est obstacle  to  this  was  found  to  be  their  political  rather 
than  religious  views.  The  question  who  should  wear 
the  crown  of  Bohemia  was  a matter  of  no  little  impor- 
tance, and  each  party  seemed  anxious  to  secure  it  for 
one  of  their  number.  A convention  of  the  states  was 
held  at  Czaslau,  July,  1421,  to  determine  the  matter.  A 
regency  was  appointed  of  twenty  members,  taken  from 
the  different  orders  of  the  nation.  Zisca  appeared  in  it 
in  the  first  rank  of  the  nobles.  It  was  resolved,  with 
remarkable  unanimity,  that  the  four  Articles  of  Prague 
should  be  universally  received.  Sigismund  was  de- 
clared incapable  of  reigning  over  Bohemia,  and  the 
crown  was  offered  to  the  king  of  Poland.  He  refused, 
however,  to  accept  it.  Withold,  grand  duke  of  Lithua- 
nia, was  next  chosen ; he  also  declined,  but  recommend- 
ed Sigismund  Corybut,  his  brother,  to  the  Bohemian 
barons,  and  accompanied  him  to  Prague,  where  they 
both,  by  partaking  of  the  communion  of  the  cup,  sealed 
their  adherence  to  the  faith  of  the  Calixtines,  who  held 
now  the  supremacy  at  Prague,  and  who  had  revived 
their  old  hostility  against  the  Taborites.  The  nation 
divided  into  two  “fierce  parties,  embittered  by  preju- 
dice and  mutual  aggressions,”  so  that  the  opposition 
to  Corybnt  became  irreconcilable,  even  although  Zisca 
himself  espoused  his  cause,  as  the  Taborites  were  un- 
willing to  follow  their  leader  blindly.  A diet  held  at 
Prague  in  November,  1421,  to  determine  the  question, 
brought  it  no  nearer  to  its  solution,  while  it  effected  the 
estrangement  of  Zisca  from  the  Calixtines,  who  now  re- 
garded him  and  his  followers  as  their  enemies.  An 
army  was  gathered  against  them;  but,  as  often  before, 
the  Taborites  were  victorious,  and  the  Calixtines  se- 
verely beaten.  Another  attempt  proved  even  less  fa- 
vorable to  them,  and,  thus  driven  to  desperation,  Zisca 
now  attempted  to  crush  the  Calixtines,  who  were  vir- 
tually leagued  with  the  Imperialists.  After  various  vic- 
tories over  his  enemies,  Zisca  appeared  before  Prague 
September  11, 1423,  and  invested  the  city,  suffering  no 
one  to  issue  forth  from  its  gates.  When  everything  was 
ready  to  storm  the  city,  a deputation  of  the  Calixtines 
appeared  before  him  and  offered  terms  of  submission, 
which  he  readily  accepted.  Zisca  entered  Prague  with 
great  honors,  and  was  intrusted  with  the  exercise  of 
paramount  authority.  The  emperor’s  hopes  of  being 
king  of  Bohemia  had  of  late  been  based  upon  the  divis- 
ions of  the  nation,  and,  bafiled  by  this  new  agreement 
between  the  Hussites,  he  now  sought  to  win  them  over 
by  liberal  concessions.  lie  offered  to  Zisca  the  govern- 
ment of  the  kingdom,  and  asked  for  himself  only  the 
wearing  of  the  crown. 

“But,  at  this  culminating  point  of  Zisca’s  fortunes, 
death  overtook  him  (October  11,  1424).  He  lived  to 
foil  the  purposes  of  Sigismund,  and  died  at  the  moment 
when  his  death  was,  in  some  respects,  another  defeat  to 
his  hopes.”  Zisca’s  death  left  the  Taborites  without 
any  real  leader.  Their  success  they  chiefly  owed  to 
him,  and  some  of  them,  to  indicate  their  deep  sense  of 
the  loss  they  had  suffered,  took  the  name  of  Orphanites 
(q.  v.).  Others  were  absorbed  by  the  Horebites  (q.  v.), 
while  still  others  retained  their  old  name,  and  chose  St. 
Procopius  “the  Great”  (q.  v.)  as  their  leader.  The  Or- 
phanites, however,  had  relapsed  to  a belief  in  transub- 
stantiatiou : they  observed  the  fasts,  honored  the  saints, 


and  their  priests  performed  worship  in  robes,  all  which 
the  strict  Taborites  continued  to  reject.  Among  the 
Orphanite  leaders,  Procopius  “ the  Lesser”  was  the  most 
eminent.  Vainly  did  the  pope,  assisted  by  the  emperor, 
preach  another  crusade  against  the  Hussites,  who  sal- 
lied out  from  Bohemia  in  troops  to  make  invasions  into 
neighboring  countries,  and,  considering  always  Bohemia 
as  their  home,  and  other  places  as  the  laud  of  the  Phil- 
istines, treated  the  latter  accordingly.  Bands  of  robbers 
of  all  nations  soon  joined  them.  Frederick  “the  Valiant” 
made  war  against  them,  and  entered  Bohemia  in  1425, 
and  again  in  1426,  with  20,000  men,  but  was  repulsed, 
on  the  second  occasion  suffering  a terrible  defeat  at  the 
battle  of  Auscl),  June  15.  A panic  now  seized  all  Ger- 
many, which  was  increased  by  the  storming  of  Miess 
and  Tacliow  by  the  Hussites  in  1427.  Another  crusade, 
instigated  against  them  by  the  emperor  Sigismund  in 
the  same  year,  met  with  no  better  success  than  before. 

At  the  opening  of  1428,  a Convention  was  called  at 
Beraun  to  bring  about,  if  possible,  a general  pacification 
of  the  nation.  But  so  varying  were  the  views  of  the 
different  sects,  especially  the  doctrines  of  free-will,  justi- 
fication, and  predestination,  that  the  Convention  was 
broken  up  without  accomplishing  anything.  In  1429, 
the  Orphanites,  assisted  by  a portion  of  the  Taborites, 
made  a great  invasion  into  Saxony  and  Silesia.  They 
took  Dresden,  marched  along  the  Elbe  to  Magdeburg, 
then  turned  into  the  province  of  Brandenburg,  and  final- 
ly returned  to  Bohemia  by  way  of  Silesia,  distributing 
themselves  into  different  bands  in  various  places,  and 
adopting  names  according  to  their  fancy.  Some  were 
known  as  Collectors,  some  as  “ Small  Caps”  ( Petit  Cha- 
peaus, says  L’Enfant),  some  as  Little  Cousins,  others  as 
Wolf -bands.  In  the  spring  of  1430  they  were  Teady 
to  undertake  another  invasion.  With  20,000  cavalry, 
30,000  infantry,  and  3000  chariots,  and  with  Procopius 
and  other  able  generals  at  their  \jead,  they  repeated  the 
invasion  of  the  countries  that  had  been  visited  the  pre- 
vious year.  Dividing  into  several  bands,  they  desolated 
or  reduced  to  ashes  more  than  a hundred  towns  and  vil- 
lages, beat  a Saxon  army  at  Grimma,  then  went  to 
Franconia,  and  returned  home  through  Lower  Bavaria. 
Meanwhile  the  pope  had  been  busy  with  his  bigots  cry- 
ing a new  crusade  against  the  Hussites.  November  1, 
1429,  a diet  had  been  summoned  to  meet  at  Vienna,  but 
the  delay  of  Sigismund  in  reaching  the  place  had  caused 
its  transfer  to  Presburg.  Here  the  deliberations  were 
protracted  for  eight  months,  and  at  length  nearly  all 
the  prelates  and  princes  of  the  empire  were  brought  to- 
gether, either  in  person  or  by  ambassadors.  “ It  was 
finally  resolved  to  make  still  another  invasion  of  Bohe- 
mia. The  papal  legate  came  provided  for  the  emergen- 
cy. He  had  brought  with  him  a bull  of  Martin  V,  or- 
daining a crusade,  which  was  now  opportiuiely  to  be 
published.  Indulgences  were  profusely  promised,  to 
those  who  should  engage  in  the  enterprise,  or  contrib- 
ute to  its  promotion.  Those  who  should  fast  and  pray 
for  its  success  should  have  a remission  of  peuance  for 
sixty  days.  From  other  vows  interfering  with  enlist- 
ments in  the  holy  war,  a dispensation  should  be  freely 
bestowed.”  Great  efforts  were  made  to  insure  the  suc- 
cessful issue  of  this,  the  sixth  invasion  of  Bohemia  by 
the  Imperialists  (or  the  third  papal  crusade  urged  by 
Martin  V).  June  24, 1431,  was  the  time  appointed  for  it. 
But,  before  it  was  undertaken,  the  emperor,  to  test  the 
spirit  of  the  Bohemians,  made  again  propositions  for  the 
crown.  The  Orphanites  were  the  only  Hussites  that 
opposed  him.  The  Calixtines  and  Taborites  returned 
a deputation  of  four  to  confer  with  Sigismund.  But, 
even  before  this  deputation  had  returned  to  Prague,  the 
Hussites  became  distrustful,  and  the  most  cautious  and 
moderate  among  them  felt  satisfied  that  the  emperor 
only  intended  to  mislead  them  into  a state  of  security, 
and  then  surprise  and  conquer  them.  “The  old  leagues 
and  confederations  were  revived.  Old  feuds  were  for- 
gotten. The  barons  of  Bohemia  and  Moravia,  the  Ca- 
lixtines of  Prague,  and  the  indomitable  Taborites  and 


HUSSITES 


424 


HUTCHESON 


Orphanites,  again  united  to  repel  the  invader.  In  a few 
weeks  50,000  infantry,  7000  cavalry,  and  3600  chariots 
were  gathered.”  The  erusading  foree  also  had  been  col- 
lecting, and  now  numbered  80,000  (some  say  130,000) 
men,  under  the  command  of  the  eleetor  of  Brandenburg. 
This  army,  immense  as  it  was,  and  powerful  and  in- 
vincible as  it  seemed,  was,  like  its  predecessors,  com- 
pletely routed  at  Tausch,  August  14, 1431,  and  the  hopes 
of  the  Imperialists  of  subjecting  the  Bohemians  by  foree 
of  arms  effectually  crushed,  bigismund  now  most  ear- 
nestly endeavored  to  make  peace,  and  intrusted  the  ne- 
gotiations to  the  Couneil  of  Basle  (which  met  Decem- 
ber, 1431).  The  Bohemians  were  invited,  promised  a 
safe-conduct,  and  freedom  to  remain  at  Basle,  to  aet,  de- 
cide, treat,  and  enter  into  arrangements  with  the  coun- 
cil; also  “perfect  liberty  to  celebrate  in  their  houses 
their  peculiar  forms  of  worship ; that  in  public  and  in 
private  they  should  be  allowed  from  Scripture  and  the 
holy  doctors  to  advance  proof  of  their  four  A r tides, 
against  which  no  preaching  of  the  Catholics  should  be 
allowed  while  they  remained  within  the  city.”  But 
even  with  these  proffered  favorable  conditions  the  Bo- 
hemians at  first  kept  aloof,  mistrusting  the  sincerity  of 
the  offers  made  them;  yet  in  1432  they  consented  to 
send  envoys  to  the  eouncil.  It  was  in  the  beginning 
of  the  next  year  (January  4, 1433)  that  the  Bohemian 
deputation,  numbering  300,  was  chosen  from  the  most 
noble  in  the  land,  and  with  Proeopius  “ the  Great,”  the 
colleague  of  Zisca,  the  hero  of  many  battles,  the  leader 
of  many  invasions,  at  its  head.  On  the  16th  of  January 
the  Bohemian  deputation  appeared  before  the  eouncil, 
and  presented  the  four  Articles  of  Prague  as  the  basis 
of  negotiations.  After  discussing  them  for  fifty  days, 
tlje  parties  had  been  brought  no  nearer  together,  and 
the  Bohemians,  growing  impatient,  prepared  for  their 
return  to  Prague.  Towards  the  close  of  the  same  year, 
however,  the  couneil  sent  envoys  to  Prague,  and  finally 
the  Treaty  of  Prague  was  concluded,  November  30, 1433, 
known  in  history  as  the  Compaetata , stipulating  first 
for  the  restoration  of  peace  and  the  abolition  of  ecclesi- 
astical censorship,  then  for  the  admission  of  the  four 
Articles  of  Prague,  modified  as  follows : 1,  the  eucharist 
to  be  administered  equally  under  one  or  both  kinds ; 2, 
that  preaching  should  be  free,  but  only  permitted  to  reg- 
ularly ordained  ministers;  3,  that  priests  should  have 
no  possessions,  but  should  be  permitted  to  administer 
upon  them ; 4,  that  sin  should  be  punished,  but  only  by 
the  regularly  constituted  authorities.  The  Taborites  dis- 
approved the  proceedings;  a diet, held  at  Prague  in  1434, 
in  which  the  Calixtines  acknowledged  the  authority  of 
the  pope,  brought  the  difficulty  to  a crisis,  and  the  Ca- 
lixtines, joined  by  the  Roman  Catliolies,  defeated  the 
Taborites  near  Bdhmischbrod,  May  30, 1434.  The  two 
Procopiuses  were  killed.  The  Taborites  were  now  driven 
to  their  strongholds,  which  they  were  obliged  to  surren- 
der one  by  one.  In  another  diet,  held  at  Prague  in 
1435,  all  Bohemians  acknowledged  Sigismund  for  their 
king,  he  granting  them,  on  his  part,  very  advantageous 
conditions  for  their  eountry  and  sect.  The  Bomisli 
Church,  in  accepting  the  four  Articles,  having  conceded 
to  them  the  use  of  the  eup  in  the  eucharist,  and  many 
other  privileges,  they  were  finally  absolved  from  ecclesi- 
astical interdict,  and  the  emperor  eame  to  Prague  Au- 
gust 23,  1436.  The  Taborites  submitted  gradually,  and 
the  thus  united  Hussites  took  the  name  of  Utraquists 
(q.  v.). 

Sigismund,  however,  did  not  keep  the  promises  he 
had  made  on  ascending  the  throne  of  Bohemia,  but 
rather  used  every  means  to  restore  the  Roman  Catholic 
faith  in  that  eountry.  The  chief  of  the  Hussites,  John 
Rokyzan,  whom  the  emperor  himself  had  at  first  con- 
firmed in  the  office  of  arehbisliop,  eame  to  be  in  danger 
of  his  life.  This  created  new  disturbances,  which  con- 
tinued until  the  death  of  Sigismund  in  1437.  The  Ro- 
man Catholic  party  now  elected  Albrecht  of  Austria 
king,  but  the  Hussites  chose  Casimir  of  Poland.  The 
former  finally  prevailed;  but  at  his  death,  in  October, 


1439,  during  the  minority  of  his  son  Ladislaus,  two  gov- 
ernors w'ere  appointed  (in  1441),  the  one  a Roman  Cath- 
olic, the  other  a Hussite,  to  govern  the  kingdom.  In 
1444,  George  de  Podiebrad  was  the  Hussite  governor 
chosen,  and  in  1450  he  assumed  the  sole  control.  This 
change  created  no  disorder,  as  the  Roman  Catholics, 
who  were  busily  engaged  undermining  the  Hussite  doc- 
trine and  gaining  over  its  adherents,  were  anxious  to 
avoid  an  open  conflict  with  them.  At  the  death  of 
Ladislaus  in  1457,  George  himself  was  elected  king.  In 
order  to  conciliate  the  pope,  he  caused  himself  to  be 
crowned  by  Roman  Catholic  bishops,  and  swore  obedi- 
ence to  the  Church  and  to  the  pope.  During  his  reign 
the  Calixtines  enjoyed  full  religious  liberty ; and  when 
Pope  Pius  Ii  declared  the  treaty  abolished  in  1462, 
George  sent  the  papal  legates  to  prison  without  further 
forms.  For  this  he  was  put  under  the  ban,  and  finally 
deposed  by  the  pope  in  1463. 

“ Meanwhile  the  warlike  Taborites  had  disappeared 
from  the  scene.  They  no  longer  formed  a national 
party.  But  the  feeble  remnants  of  that  midtitude  which 
had  onee  followed  the  standards  of  Zisea  and  Procopius 
still  elung  to  their  cherished  faith,  and,  with  the  Word 
of  God  as  their  only  supreme  authority,  the  United 
Brethren  (q.  v.)  appear  as  their  lineal  representatives. 
How,  from  such  an  origin,  should  have  sprung  a people 
whose  peaceful  virtues  and  missionary  zeal  have  been 
acknowledged  by  the  world,  is  a problem  only  to  be 
solved  by  admitting  that,  in  the  faith  of  the  old  Tabor- 
ites, however  they  may  have  been  guilty  of  fanatical 
excesses,  there  w'as  to  be  found  that  fundamental  prin- 
ciple of  reverenee  for  the  authority  of  Scripture  alone 
which  they  bequeathed  as  a cherished  legacy  to  those 
who  eould  apply  and  act  upon  it  in  more  favorable  cir- 
cumstances and  in  more  peaceful  times.”  The  success- 
or of  George,  Ladislaus  of  Poland,  who  eame  to  the 
government  in  1471,  held  fast  to  the  conditions  of  the 
treaty,  though  himself  a Roman  Catholic.  In  1485  he 
concluded  the  peace  of  Kuttenberg,  according  to  which 
the  Utraquists  and  Subunists  (Roman  Catholics  who 
communed  but  in  one  kind)  were  promised  equal  toler- 
ation ; and  in  1497  he  gave  the  Utraquists  the  right  to 
appoint  an  administrator  of  the  archbishoprie  of  Prague 
as  their  ecclesiastical  chief.  ’When  the  Reformation 
began  in  Germany,  it  was  gladly  hailed  by  both  the 
Calixtines  and  the  Bohemian  Brethren,  and  in  1524 
they  decided  to  continue,  under  the  guidance  of  Luther, 
the  reform  begun  by  lluss.  A large  part  of  them  now 
divided  themselves  into  Lutherans  and  Calvinists,  and 
in  1575  both  these  united  with  the  Bohemian  Brethren 
in  a joint  confession,  and  became  a strictly  Protestant 
denomination.  They  were  permitted  to  enjoy  relig- 
ious liberty  until  1612,  when  they  were  subjected  to 
many  restrictions  by  the  emperor  Matthias,  and  to  still 
more  by  the  emperor  Rudolph  in  1617.  This  was  the 
first  cause  of  the  Thirty-years’  War,  and  it  was  only 
under  Joseph  II  that  the  Calixtines  recovered  their  re- 
ligious liberty.  See  Coelilaus,  Hist,  Hussitarum  (May- 
ence,  1549,  fol.) ; Theobald,  Hussitenkricg  (Wittenberg, 
1609;  Nuremb.  1623;  Bresl.  1750,3  vols.) ; Geschichte  d. 
Ilussiten  (Lpz.  17S4) ; Selmbert,  Geschichte  d.  Ilussiten - 
lcriegs  (Neustadt,  1825);  Pierer,  Universal  Lexifson,  viii, 
, 636;  Kdppen,  Dev  alt.  Huss.  Bruderkirclie  (Lpz.  1845)  ; 
, The  Reformation  and  Anti -Reformat  ion  in  Bohemia 
I (London,  1849,  2 vols.  8vo) ; I’alacky,  Geschichte  v.Boh- 
men  (1845,3  vols.),  vol.  iii;  Beziehungcn  u.Ycrhdltniss  d. 
1 Valdenser  z.  d.  ehemuligen  Sekten  in  Buhmen  (Prag.  1869) ; 
Vorldnfcr  d.  Ilussitenthums  in  Bohmen  (new  edit.  1869) ; 
Jean  Goclfiee  and  Tlieobaldus,  Hist,  de  la  Guerre  des 
Hussites  ; Neander,  Church  Hist,  v,  172;  Gindelv,  Gesch. 
d.  Bohmischen  Brihler  (Prague,  1857,  2 vols.  8vo);  and 
especially  Gillett,  Life  and  Times  of  John  Huss  (Boston, 
1863,  2 vols.  8vo),  from  wdiich  extracts  have  frequently 
been  made  in  this  article.  Roman  Catholic — Aschbach, 
Kirchen-Lexikon,  iii,  348  sq. ; Gesch.  Kaiser  Sigmunds 
, (Hamb.  1838-45,  4 vols.  8vo).  See  Huss.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hutcheson,  Francis,  called  by  Mackintosh  the 


HUTCHESON 


425 


HUTCHINSON 


t(  father  of  speculative  philosophy  in  Scotland,”  was  the 
son  of  a Presbyterian  minister  in  Ireland,  and  was  bom 
Aug.  8,  1694.  He  entered  the  University  of  Glasgow 
in  1710,  and  afterwards  became  minister  of  a Presbyte- 
rian church  in  the  north  of  Ireland;  but,  preferring  the 
study  of  philosophy  to  theology,  he  was  induced  to  open 
a private  academy  at  Dublin.  The  publication  of  some 
of  his  works  soon  procured  him  the  friendship  of  many 
distinguished  persons,  and  in  1729  he  was  called  as  pro- 
fessor of  moral  philosophy  to  the  University  of  Glas- 
gow. lie  died  in  1747.  His  principal  works  are,  Phi- 
losophic mo  rails  institutio  compendiaria , ethiees  etjuris- 
prudentiie  naturalis  elementa  continens  (Glasgow,  1742, 
12mo) : — A short  Introduction  to  Moral  Philosophy , con- 
taining the  Elements  of  Ethics  and  the  Law  of  Nature , 
translated  (Glasgow,  1747,  sm.  8vo)  : — An  Essay  on  the 
Nature  and  Conilnct  of  Passions  and  Affections  (3d  ed. 
Glasg.  1769,  sm.  8vo)  : — Synopsis  metaphysics,  Ontologi- 
am  et  Pneumatologiam  complectens  (editio  sexta,  Glasg. 
1774,  small  8vo)  : — An  Inquiry  into  the  Original  of  our 
Ideas  of  Beauty  and  Virtiie , in  two  treatises  (5tli  edit, 
corrected,  London,  1753,  8vo) : — Letters  between  the  late 
Mr.  Gilbert  Burnet  and  Mr.  Hutcheson  concerning  the 
true  Foundation  of  Virtue  or  Moral  Goodness,  etc.  (Lon- 
don, 1735,  8vo).  After  his  death,  his  System  of  Moral 
Philosophy  was  published  by  his  son,  Francis  Hutche- 
son, M.D.,  with  a sketch  of  his  life  and  writings  by  Dr. 
William  Leechman  (Glasg.  1755,  2 vols.  4to).  “In  his 
metaphysical  system  Hutcheson  rejected  the  theory  of 
innate  ideas  and  principles,  but  insisted  upon  the  admis- 
sion of  certain  universal  propositions,  or,  as  he  terms 
them,  metaphysical  axioms,  which  are  self-evident  and 
immutable.  These  axioms  are  primary  and  original, 
and  do  not  derive  their  authority  from  any  simpler  and 
antecedent  principle.  Consequently,  it  is  idle  to  seek  a 
criterion  of  truth,  for  this  is  none  other  than  reason  it- 
self, or,  in  the  words  of  Hutcheson,  ‘ menti  congenita 
intclligendi  vis.’  Of  his  ontological  axioms  two  are  im- 
portant: Everything  exists  really;  and  no  quality,  af- 
fection, or  action  is  real,  except  in  so  far  as  it  exists  in 
some  object  or  thing.  From  the  latter  proposition,  it 
follows  that  all  abstract  affirmed  ire  propositions  are  hy- 
pothetical, that  is,  they  invariably  suppose  the  exist- 
ence of  some  object  without  which  they  cannot  be  true. 
Truth  is  divided  into  logical,  moral,  and  metaphysical. 
Logical  truth  is  the  agreement  of  a proposition  with  the 
object  it  relates  to;  moral  truth  is  the  harmony  of  the 
outward  act  with  the  inward  sentiments;  lastly,  meta- 
physical truth  is  that  nature  of  a thing  wherein  it  is 
known  to  God  as  that  which  actually  it  is,  or  it  is  its  abso- 
lute reality.  Perfect  truth  is  in  the  infinite  alone.  The 
truth  of  finite  things  is  imperfect,  inasmuch  as  they  are 
limited.  It  is,  however,  from  the  finite  that  the  mind 
rises  to  the  idea  of  absolute  truth,  and  so  forms  to  itself 
a belief  that  an  absolute  and  perfect  nature  exists,  which, 
in  regard  to  duration  and  space,  is  infinite  and  eternal. 
The  soul,  as  the  thinking  essence,  is  spiritual  and  incor- 
poreal. Of  its  nature  we  have,  it  is  true,  but  little 
knowledge;  nevertheless,  its  specific  difference  from 
body  is  at  once  attested  by  the  consciousness.  It  is 
simple  and  active ; body  is  composite  and  passive.  From 
the  spiritual  nature  of  the  soul,  however,  Hutcheson 
does  not  derive  its  immortality,  but  makes  this  to  rest 
upon  the  goodness  and  wisdom  of  God.”  In  moral  phi- 
losophy he  was  the  first  to  use  the  term  “moral  sense” 
to  denote  “the  faculty  which  perceives  the  morality  of 
actions,”  and  he  held  it  to  be  an  essential  part  of  human 
nature.  “He  allows  the  appellation  of  good  to  those 
actions  alone  which  are  disinterested  and  flow  from  the 
principle  of  benevolence.  The  last  has  no  reference  to 
expediency  nor  personal  advantages,  nor  even  to  the 
more  refined  enjoyments  of  moral  sympathy,  the  obli- 
gations of  reason  and  truth,  or  of  the  divine  will.  It  is 
a distinct  and  peculiar  principle,  a moral  sentiment  or 
instinct  of  great  dignity  and  authority,  and  its  end  is  to 
regulate  the  passions,  and  to  decide,  in  favor  of  virtue, 
the  conflict  between  the  interested  and  disinterested 


affections.  On  this  foundation  Hutcheson  erected  all 
the  superstructure  of  the  moral  duties.”  See  English 
Cyclopedia  ; Mackintosh,  History  of  Ethical  Philoso- 
phy,  p.  126 ; Tennemann,  Manual  History  of  Philoso- 
phy, § 350;  Stud.  ?/.  Krit.  1866,  p.  406;  Morcll,  History 
of  Mod.  Phil.  p.  179  sq. ; M‘Cosh,  Intuitions  of  the  M ind, 
p.  92,  248,  411  sq. ; Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  926. 

Hutcheson,  George,  an  English  Biblical  schol- 
ar, of  whose  early  life  but  little  is  known,  flourished 
about  the  middle  of  the  17th  century.  He  was  a min- 
ister first  at  Colomonell,  and  later  at  Edinburgh,  but 
was  ejected  for  nonconformity  about  1660.  In  1669  he 
preached  at  Irvine,  though  he  continued  steadfastly  to 
oppose  the  use  of  the  Episcopal  liturgy.  He  died  in 
1678.  He  wrote,  Exposition  of  the  twelve  M inor  Proph- 
ets (Lond.  1655,  sm.  8vo) : — Exposit.  of  John  (1657,  fol.)  : 
—Exposition  of  Job  (1669,  fol.)  -.—Forty-five  Sermons  on 
the  130 th  Psalm  (Edinb.  1691,  8vo).  — Kitto,  Bib!.  Cy- 
clop. ii,  345 ; Allibone,  Did.  of  A uthors,  i,  927.  (J.  II. 

W.) 

Hutchinson,  Anne,  an  American  religious  en- 
thusiast, and  founder  of  a party  of  Antinomians  (q.  v.) 
in  the  New  England  colony,  emigrated  from  Lincoln- 
shire, England,  to  Boston  in  1636.  She  claimed  to  be  a 
medium  of  divine  revelation, and, being  “a  woman  of 
admirable  understanding,  and  profitable  and  sober  car- 
riage, she  won  a powerful  party  in  the  country,  and  her 
enemies  could  never  speak  of  her  without  acknowledg- 
ing her  eloquence  and  ability.”  She  held  that  the  Holy 
Spirit  dwells  in  every  believer,  and  that  the  revelation 
of  the  Spirit  is  superior  to  the  ministry  of  the  word.  As 
her  doctrines  affected  not  only  the  religious, but  also  the 
political  professions  of  the  people,  great  controversies  en- 
sued ; a synod  was  finally  called,  in  which  her  teachings 
were  condemned,  and  she  and  her  associate  leaders  were 
banished  from  the  colony.  Anne  and  her  friends  now 
obtained  from  the  chief  of  the  Narragansetts  permission 
to  reside  in  Rhode  Island.  1 lore  “ they  set  up  a commu- 
nity on  the  highly  commendable  principle  that  no  one 
was  to  be  ‘accounted  a delinquent  for  doctrine.’”  After 
the  decease  of  her  husband  (who  shared  her  opinions), 
she  removed  to  a Dutch  settlement  in  the  colony  of  New 
York.  In  1643,  she  and  her  whole  family  of  fifteen  per- 
sons were  taken  prisoners  by  the  Indians,  and  all  but  one 
daughter  barbarously  murdered.  See  Bancroft,  Hist,  of 
the  United  States,  i,  388  sq. ; Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  472 ; 
A merican  Presb.  Rev.  1860,  p.  225.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hutchinson,  John,  1,  a Puritan  colonel  in  the 
Parliamentary  army  during  the  time  of  the  English 
Civil  War,  was  born  at  Nottingham  in  1617.  He  was 
a nonconformist  (Baptist),  and,  being  of  a religious  turn 
of  mind,  much  of  his  time  was  given  to  the  study  of  the- 
ology. At  the  outbreak  of  the  Civil  War  he  sided  with 
the  Parliament,  and  was  appointed  governor  of  Notting- 
ham Castle.  At  the  trial  of  the  king  (Charles  I)  he 
concurred  in  the  sentence  pronounced  on  him,  having 
first  “ addressed  himself  to  God  by  prayer.”  . Cromwell’s 
conduct  after  this  unfortunate  affair  Hutchinson  disap- 
proved; and  while  various  sentiments  are  entertained 
on  his  political  conduct,  “none  question  his  integrity  or 
piety.”  At  the  Restoration  he  suffered  the  general  fate 
of  the  Republicans,  and  died  in  prison,  Sept.  11,  1664. 
See  Neale,  Hist,  of  the  Puritans  (Harper’s  edit.),  ii,  378 
sq. ; Appleton’s  A m.  Cyclop,  ix,  396. 

Hutchinson,  John,  2,  inventor  of  a theory  of  her- 
meneutics which  gave  rise  to  much  discussion  in  the 
17th  century,  and  still  has  a few  adherents,  was  bom  in 
1674,  at  Spennithorne,  in  Yorkshire.  After  private  edu- 
cation, he  became,  at  the  age  of  19,  steward  to  Mr.  Bath- 
urst, and  afterwards  to  the  duke  of  Somerset,  who  be- 
stowed upon  him  many  marks  of  confidence,  and  finally 
procured  for  Hutchinson  a sinecure  appointment  of  £200 
per  annum  from  the  government.  His  time  was  now 
mainly  devoted  to  religious  study.  He  also  made  a large 
and  valuable  collection  of  fossils.  In  1724  he  published 
the  first  part  of  a curious  work  entitled  Moses's  Princip - 


IIUTTER 


426 


HUTCHINSON’ 

ia,  in  which  he  attempted  to  refute  the  doctrine  of 
gravitation  as  taught  in  the  Principal  of  Newton.  In 
the  second  part  of  this  work,  which  appeared  in  1727,  Ire 
continued  his  attack  upon  the  Newtonian  philosophy, 
and  maintained,  on  the  authority  of  Scripture,  the  exist- 
ence of  a plenum.  From  this  time  to  his  death  he  pub- 
lished yearly  one  or  two  volumes  in  further  elucidation 
of  his  views,  which  evince  extensive  knowledge  of  the 
Hebrew  Scriptures.  He  died  August  28, 1737. 

“According  to  Hutchinson,  the  Old  Testament  con- 
tains a complete  system  of  natural  history,  theology,  and 
religion.  The  Hebrew  language  was  the  medium  of 
God’s  communication  with  man ; it  is  therefore  perfect, 
and  consequently,  as  a perfect  language,  it  must  be  co- 
extensive with  all  the  objects  of  knowledge,  and  its  sev- 
eral terms  are  truly  significant  of  the  objects  which  they 
indicate,  and  not  so  many  arbitrary  signs  to  represent 
them.  Accordingly,  Hutchinson,  after  Origen  and  oth- 
ers, laid  great  stress  on  the  evidence  of  Hebrew  etymolo- 
gy, and  asserted  that  the  Scriptures  are  not  to  be  under- 
stood and  interpreted  in  a literal,  but  in  a typical  sense, 
and  according  to  the  radical  import  of  the  Hebrew  ex- 
pressions. By  this  plan  of  interpretation,  he  maintained 
that  the  Old  Testament  would  be  found  not  only  to  tes- 
tify fully  to  the  nature  and  offices  of  Christ,  but  also  to 
contain  a perfect  system  of  natural  philosophy.”  His 
editors  give  the  following  compendium  of  the  llutchin- 
sonian  theory:  “The  Hebrew  Scriptures  nowhere  ascribe 
motion  to  the  body  of  the  sun,  or  fixedness  to  the  earth ; 
they  describe  the  created  system  to  be  a.  plenum  without 
any  vacuum,  and  reject  the  assistance  of  gravitation,  at- 
traction, or  any  such  occult  qualities,  for  performing  the 
stated  operations  of  nature,  which  are  carried  on  by  the 
mechanism  of  the  heavens  in  their  threefold  condition 
of  fire,  light,  and  spirit,  or  air,  the  material  agents  set  to 
work  at  the  beginning : the  heavens,  thus  framed  by 
Almighty  wisdom,  are  an  instituted  emblem  and  visible 
substitute  of  Jehovah  Elohim,  the  eternal  three,  the  co- 
equal and  co-adorable  Trinity  in  Unity:  the  unity  of 
substance  in  the  heavens  points  out  the  unity  of  essence, 
and  the  distinction  of  conditions  the  triune  personality 
ill  Deity,  without  confounding  the  persons  or  dividing 
the  substance.  From  their  being  made  emblems,  they 
are  called  in  Hebrew  Shemim,  the  names, representatives, 
or  substitutes,  expressing  by  their  names  that  they  are 
emblems,  and  by  their  conditions  or  offices  what  it  is 
they  are  emblems  of.”  As  an  instance  of  his  etymologic- 
al interpretation,  the  word  Berith,  which  our  translation 
renders  Covenant , Hutchinson  construes  to  signify  “he  or 
that  which  purifies,”  and  so  the  purifier  or  purification 
“for,”  not  “with,”  man.  From  similar  etymologies, he 
drew  the  conclusion  “ that  all  the  rites  and  ceremonies 
of  the  Jewish  dispensation  were  so  many  delineations  of 
Christ,  in  what  lie  was  to  be,  to  do,  and  to  suffer,  and 
that  the  early  Jews  knew  them  to  be  types  of  his  actions 
and  sufferings,  and  that,  by  performing  them  as  such, 
were  in  so  far  Christians  both  in  faith  and  practice.” 
All  his  writings  are  collected  in  The  Philosophical  and 
Theological  IForis  of  the  late  truly  learned  John  Hutch- 
inson, Esq.  (Lond.  1749, 3d  edit.  12  vols.  8vo). 

“Hutchinson’s  philological  and  exegetical  vieivs  found 
numerous  followers,  who,  without  constituting  a doctri- 
nal sect,  came  to  be  distinguished  as  ‘ Hntchinsonians.’ 
In  their  number  they  reckoned  several  distinguished 
divines  in  England  and  Scotland,  both  of  the  Establish- 
ed Church  and  of  Dissenting  communities.  Among  the 
most  eminent  of  these  were  bishop  Home,  and  his  biog- 
rapher, Mr.  William  Jones ; Mr.  Homaine,  and  Mr.  Julius 
Bates,  to  whom  the  duke  of  Somerset,  on  the  nomination 
of  Mr.  Hutchinson,  presented  the  living  of  Sutton,  in 
Sussex;  Mr.  Parkhurst,  the  lexicographer;  I)r. Hodges, 
provost  of  Oriel;  and  Dr. Wetherell,  master  of  Univer- 
sity College,  Oxford ; Mr.  Hollow'ay,  author  of  Letter  and 
Spirit;  and  Mr.  Lee, author  of  Sophron,or Nature's  Char- 
acteristics of  Truth.  The  principles  of  Mr.  Hutchinson 
are  still  entertained  by  many  divines  without  their  pro- 
fessing to  be  followers  of  Mr.  Hutchinson,  but  the  num- 


ber of  professing  Hutchinsonians  is  now  very  small.”  See 
English  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Jones  of  Noyland,  Works,  vols.  iii 
and  xii ; Bishop  Horne,  IForLs,  vol.  vi  (ed.  1809);  Bate, 
Defence  of  Hutchinson  (Lond.  1751 , 8vo) ; Spearman,  A b- 
st7-act  of  Hutchinson's  Works  (Edinb.  1755, 12mo);  Kit- 
to,  Bibl.  Cycloji.  ii,  345. 

Hutchinsonianism.  See  Hutchinson,  John,  2. 

Hutten,  Ulrich  von,  a German  knight  and  Re- 
former,  was  born  April  20  (or  22),  1488,  at  Castle  Steck- 
elberg,  in  Hesse-Cassel,  and  entered  the  monastery  of 
Fulda  in  1498,  intending  to  become  a monk,  but  fled  in 
1504  to  Erfurt,  where  he  continued  his  theological  stud- 
ies for  a while.  In  1505  he  went  to  Cologne,  and  the 
following  year  to  Frankfort  on  the  Oder,  w'here  the  new 
university  had  recently  been  established.  Here  he  ap- 
plied himself  to  the  study  of  philology  and  poetry. 
From  Frankfort  he  went  to  Greifswald,  and  afterwards 
to  Rostock,  wiiere  he  lectured  on  philosophy.  In  1510 
he  went  to  Wittenberg,  and  thence  to  Vienna,  where  he 
remained  until  1512.  lie  afterwards  visited  Pavia  and 
Bologna,  studied  law,  and  devoted  himself  particularly 
to  the  humanities  and  poetry.  What  he  saw  in  Italy 
had  the  effect  of  making  him  an  enlightened  opponent 
of  popery.  Later  he  joined  the  army  of  the  emperor 
Maximilian,  and  returned  to  German}'  in  1 517.  Taking 
part  in  Renchlin’s  quarrel  against  the  Dominicans  of 
Cologne,  he  wrote  against  the  state  of  the  Romish 
Church,  and  particularly  against  the  pontiff.  Bolder, 
and  more  open  in  the  expression  of  his  opinions  than 
most  men  of  his  age,  he  did  much  to  prepare  the  way 
for  the  Reformation,  though  he  sympathized  with  Lu- 
ther only  in  his  attack  upon  the  pope,  his  great  aim 
being  not  so  much  to  change  the  Church  as  to  free 
Germany  from  the  tyranny  of  which  popery  was  the 
basis.  In  1522  he  made  an  alliance  with  Franz  von 
Sickingen,  who  was  chosen  chief  of  the  nobility  of  the 
Upper  Rhine  at  Landau.  In  that  year,  as  the  German 
princes  did  not  approve  of  Sickingen’s  plan  of  freeing 
Germany  from  the  Romish  rule,  he  appealed  to  the 
States,  and  endeavored  to  make  them  side  w'ith  the  no- 
bility against,  the  princes.  But  Sickingen  succumbed 
in  1523,  and  Hutten  was  obliged  to  flee  from  Germany. 
In  Switzerland,  his  former  friend  Erasmus  withdrew 
from  him,  and  the  Council  of  Zurich  drove  him  out  of 
their  territory.  He  then  retired  to  the  island  of  Ufnau, 
on  the  lake  of  Zurich,  where  he  died,  Aug.  29,  1523. 
Hutten  has  been  very  variously  judged,  according  to 
the  different  stand-points  of  his  critics;  yet  it  is  certain 
that  he  was  honest  in  his  convictions,  and,  though  not 
a partisan  of  the  Reformation  from  any  religious  feel- 
ing, he  did  all  he  could  to  free  his  native  land  from 
the  subjection  to  the  papacy.  For  that  end  he  gave 
Luther  all  the  aid  in  his  power.  He  was  one  of  the  au- 
thors of  the  greater  part  of  the  Epistolce  obscurorum  vi- 
rortnn , and  most  of  his  writings  were  satires  against 
the  pope,  the  monks,  and  the  clergy.  Several  editions 
of  his  works  have  been  published;  the  principal  are 
Munch’s  (Berlin,  1821-23,  6 vols.)  and  Ed.  Booking's 
(Lpz.  1859  sq.,  7 vols.).  See  Epistolce  U.ab  Hutten  ad 
Ii,  Crocum  (Leipzig,  1801);  Rocking,  Ein  Verzcichniss 
der  Schriften  Hutten' s,  Index  bibliograp  Incus  Huttcniamis 
(Leipz.  1858)  ; Schnbart,  Biographic  (Lpz.  1791)  ; Tis- 
cher,  Biographic.  (Lpz.  1803) ; Panzer,  Ulrich  von  Hut- 
ten, in  literarischer  Hinsichl  (Ntirnburg,  1798) ; Giess, 
11.  v.  sein  Zritalter  (1813) ; E.  von  Brunnow,  Ulrich  von 
II.  (Lpz.  1842,  3 vols.) ; Biirck,  Ulrich  v.  If.  (Dresden  u. 
Lpz.  1840);  David  Friedrich  Strauss,  Ulrich  v.  II.  (Lpz. 
1857,  2 vols.) ; Berne  Germ  unique,  March.  1858;  Eclectic 
Review  (Lond.),  July,  1858,  p.  54  sq. ; Picrcr,  Universal 
Lexikon,  vol.  viii;  Ilase,  Cl).  History,  § 314 . Ulrich  von 
Hutten,  transl.  from  Chauffour-Kestner’s  Etudes  sur  les 
Reform) ttenrs  du  16""  siecle,  by  A.  Young  (Lond.  1863)  ; 
Lecky,  Hist,  of  Rationalism,  ii,  188;  Hardwick,  Refor- 
mation, p.  32  sq. ; National  Magazine,  1858,  p.  243  sq. ; 
Lond.  Quart.  Rev.  1857  (April) ; 1867  (April). 

Hutter,  Elias,  a German  Hebraist,  was  bom  at 


HUTTER 


427 


HYACIXTIIUS 


Gorlitz  in  1554,  studied  the  Oriental  languages  in  the 
universities  of  Jena  and  Leipzig,  and  became  in  1579 
Hebrew  teacher  of  the  elector  August  of  Saxony.  He 
next  resided  successively  in  different  parts  of  Germany, 
set  up  a printing  establishment  in  Nuremberg,  and  final- 
ly retired  to  Augsburg,  where  lie  died  (others  say  he 
died  at  Frankfort)  in  1605.  Ills  reputation  as  a lin- 
guist he  established  by  editing  several  Polyglot  Bibles. 
The  first  of  them,  Opus  quadripartitum  /Script . Sacra 
(Ilamb.  1596),  contained  the  O.T.in  Hebrew  and  three 
other  versions.  In  1599  lie  published  at  Nuremberg  the 
New  Test,  in  twelve  different  versions,  and  in  1602  his 
Nov.  Test.  Ilarmon.  Ebr.  Gr.  Lat.  et  Germ.  At  present, 
however,  II utter’s  works  are  more  curious  than  useful. 
Among  them  is  a Hebrew  Bible  in  remarkably  bold  and 
large  letter,  in  which  the  serviles  are  distinguished  by 
hollow  type,  and  the  defective  radicals  interlined  in 
small  characters,  as  in  Bagster’s  edition  of  the  Psalms. — 
Pierer,  Unic.  Lex.  viii,  646  sq. ; Kitto,  Biblical  Cyclop,  ii, 
346. 

Hutter,  Leonhard,  a German  Lutheran  theolo- 
gian, was  born  at  Nellingen,  near  Ulm,  in  January,  1563, 
studied  philosophy,  philology,  and  theology  at  Stras- 
burg,  Leipzig,  Heidelberg,  and  Jena ; became  private  tu- 
tor in  the  latter  university  in  1594,  and  in  1596  professor 
at  Wittenberg,  where  he  died,  Oct.  23, 1616.  11c  was  a 

zealous  upholder  of  Lutheran  orthodoxy.  His  Compen- 
dium locorum  theoloyicornni  (Wittenb.  1610,  etc.),  pre- 
pared by  order  of  the  elector  Christian,  took  the  place 
of  Melancthon’s  Loci  as  a text-book,  and  was  translated 
into  several  languages  (into  German  by  llolstenius 
[Liib.  1611],  and  by  Hutter  himself  [1613,  etc.]  into 
Swedish  [Stock.  1618]),  and  commented  on  by  Ctuidis- 
ius  (Jena,  1648,  etc.),  Glassins  (1656),  Chemnitz  (1670), 
Laehmann  (1690),  etc.  It  has  lately  been  reproduced 
by  llase  under  the  title  Hntterus  rediricus  (Bcrl.  1854), 
and  translated  into  English,  under  the  title  of  Compend 
of  Lutheran  Theology,  by  the  Rev.  H.  E.  Jacobs  and  the 
Rev.  G.  F.  Spieker  (Phila.  1868,  8vo).  He  carried  out 
the  Compendium  further  in  his  Loci  communes  theolog. 
(Wittenb.  1619,  fol.,  etc.),  lie  also  WTote  against  John 
Sigisnnmd  of  Brandenburg,  who  had  embraced  Calvin- 
ism, his  Caleinista  aulico-politicns  (Wittenb.  1609-14,2 
vols.),  and  against  Hospinian’s  Concordia  discors  another 
work,  entitled  Concordia  concors  (Wittenb.  1614).  His 
other  writings  are  f)e  Voluntate  Dei  drea  (etemum  prm- 
destinaiionis  salvandorum  Decretum  (Wittenb.  1605, 4to) : 
— Explicatio  libri  Christ  lame  concorduntm  (Wittenberg, 
1608,  8vo;  twice  reprinted)  : — Irenicum  rere  Christia- 
num,  sive  tractatus  de  synodo  et  nnione  evangelicorum  non 
fucata  concilianda  (Rost.  1616, 4to;  1619,  folio),  against 
the  plan  of  fusion  between  the  Lutheran  and  Reformed 
churches  of  Pareus,  and  especially  against  the  latter’s 
Irenicum.  See  J.O.Erdmann,  Lebensbesch.  u.  Literarische 
Nachricht.  r.  d.  Wittenberg  Theologen  seit  1502  bis  1802 
(Wittenberg,  1804) ; Bayle,  Diet.  Hist. ; .J.  G.Walch,  Bibl. 
Tkeologica  Select  a ; Hoefer,  A 'out'.  Biog.  Generate , xxv, 
655;  Univ.  Lex.  i,  376;  Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.x i,  238. 

Hutton,  James,  a preacher  of  the  Moravian  Breth- 
ren, was  born  in  London  in  1715.  lie  was  the  son  of  a 
clergyman,  and  served  an  apprenticeship  to  a printer 
and  a bookseller ; but,  eoming  under  the  influence  of 
Mr.  Wesley’s  preaching,  he  was  awakened,  and  was  con- 
verted under  the  labors  of  the  distinguished  Moravian, 
Peter  Biihler.  Soon  after  his  conversion  he  visited 
the  brethren  at  Hernhut,  and  became  a devoted  disciple 
and  servant  of  count  Zinzendorf,  under  whose  direction 
he  henceforth  devoted  all  his  time  and  energy  to  the 
unity  of  the  Moravian  brotherhood  in  England.  “ His 
counsel  and  aid  were  afforded  it  in  all  its  complicated 
plans  of  government  and  projects  of  usefulness;  he  held, 
as  years  rolled  on,  every  lay  offiee  in  it,  and  preached 
and  ministered  as  a deacon ; he  was  the  soul  of  its  mis- 
sionary labors  as  a ‘society  for  the  furtherance  of  the 
Gospel;’  he  defended  it  in  its  distresses;  helped  it  by  j 
his  energy  and  skill  tlirough  all  its  heavy  financial  em- 


barrassments; travelled  for  it  over  Europe ; and,  towards 
the  close  of  his  life,  became,  as  it  were,  its  representative 
to  the  court  and  people  of  England.”  He  died  in  1795. 
Hutton  was  a man  of  great  piety  and  indomitable  ener- 
gy. The  history  of  the  Moravian  Brethren  in  the  sec- 
ond half  of  the  18th  century  is  eminently  the  history 
of  his  own  life.  See  Memoirs  of  James  Hutton , compris- 
ing the  annals  of  his  life , and  connexion  with  the  United 
Brethren , by  Daniel  Benham  (Lond.  1856,  8vo) ; Land. 
Qh.  Rev.  viii,  239  sq. 

Huyghens,  Gummarus,  a Roman  Catholie  theo- 
logian and  philosopher,  was  born  at  Liere  or  Lyre  (Bra- 
bant) Feb.  1631.  When  only  twenty-one  years  of  age 
he  was  appointed  professor  of  philosophy  at  Louvain, 
and  here  he  distinguished  himself  greatly.  In  1668  he 
was  honored  with  the  doctorate  of  theology, and  in  1677 
was  made  president  of  the  eollege  of  pope  Adrian  VI. 
He  died  at  Louvain  Oct.  27, 1702.  Huyghens  wrote  a 
number  of  works,  of  which  the  best  are  Conferentias  the- 
ologicas,  in  3 vols. ; Breves  observat.,  or  a course  of  di- 
vinity, in  15  vols.  l2mo.  As  he  refused  to  favor  the  pe- 
culiar views  of  some  of  the  French  moralists,  and  opposed 
the  celebrated  four  articles  of  the  French  clergy  (1682), 
he  was  involved  in  great  controversies. — J ocher.  Allgem. 
Gelehrten  Lex.  ii,  1794 ; Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  239.  (J. 

H.W.) 

Huz  (Gen.  xxii,  21).  See  Uz. 

Huzoth.  See  Kirjath-iiuzoth. 

Huz'zab  (Hebrew  Hutstsab’,  HSfl),  rendered  as  a 
proper  name  in  the  Auth.  Version  of  Nah.  ii,  7,  is  either 
Hoph.  prcet.  of  233,  to  place  firmly,  and  so  the  clause 
may  be  translated,  “And  it  is  fixed!  she  is  led  away 
captive,”  i.  e.  the  decree  is  confirmed  for  the  overthrow 
of  Nineveh  (so  the  margin,  and  most  interpreters ; see 
Lud.  de  Dieu;  the  Sept,  and  Vulg.  both  confound  with 
22‘C,  mi  i)  vnooTaoiq  [military  station]  dwttca\v<p2ri], 
ct  miles  capticus  abductus  est;  the  Talmud  and  Hebrew 
interpreters,  confounding  with  !2!2n,  render  “the  queen 
sitting  on  her  eoueh”) ; or,  rather,  of  ZWA,  to  flow,  by 
Chaldaism,  and  the  meaning  will  then  be  (with  Gese- 
nius,  Thes.  Heb.  p.  1147,  who  joins  the  word  to  the  last 
of  the  prcced.  verse),  “ the  palace  shall  be  dissolved  and 
made  to  floio  doienf  i.  e.  the  palaces  of  Nineveh,  inunda- 
ted and  undermined  by  the  waters  of  the  Tigris,  shall 
dissolve  and  fall  in  ruins  (eomp.  Diodorus,  ii,  26).  Mr. 
Bawlinson  supposes  {llerod.  i,  570,  note)  that  lluzzab 
may  mean  “ the  Zab  country,”  or  the  fertile  tract  east 
of  the  Tigris,  watered  by  the  Upper  and  Lower  Zab  riv- 
ers {Zab  Ala  and  Zab  Asfal),  the  A-diab-one  of  the 
geographers.  This  province — the  most  valuable  part 
of  Assyria — might  well  stand  for  Assyria  itself,  with 
which  it  is  identified  by  Pliny  {Hist.  Nat.  v,  12)  and 
Ammianus  (xxiii,  6).  The  name  Zab,  as  applied  to  the 
rivers,  is  certainly  very  ancient,  being  found  in  the  great 
inscription  of  Tiglath  Pileser  I,  which  belongs  to  the 
middle  of  the  12th  century  B.C.;  but  in  that  case  the 
name  would  hardly  be  written  in  Ileb.  with  U. 

Hwiid,  Andreas  Christian,  a Danish  Orientalist, 
was  born  Oct.  20,  1749,  at  Copenhagen,  lie  was  high- 
ly educated,  and  enjoyed  great  advantages  by  travel  in 
foreign  countries.  Thus  from  1777  to  1780  he  spent  in 
Germany,  especially  at  Gottingen,  where  he  studied  un- 
der the  celebrated  Michaelis  and  Heyne,  and  in  Italy, 
where  he  enjoyed  the  society  of  several  cardinals,  al- 
though a Protestant  in  belief.  On  his  return  he  was 
appointed  professor  at  the  Royal  College.  He  died  51  ay 
3, 1788.  Hwiid  wrote  Specimen  ineditee  Versionis  Arab- 
j ico-Samaritanee  Pentateuchi  (Rom.  1780,  4to) : — Libellus 
criticus  de  indole  cotlicis  MSS.  A'.  T.  biblioth.  Casareo- 
Vindobonensis  (Cop.  1785). — Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gener. 
xxv,  688. 

Hyacinth.  See  Jacinth. 

Hyacinthus  i>e  Janua,  a Capuchin  monk  of  dis- 
tinction, who  flourished  in  the  first  half  of  the  17  th  cen- 


IIY2ENA 


42S 


IIYENA 


tury,  was  named  after  his  native  city,  Genoa.  He  was 
general  preacher  of  his  order,  and  enjoyed  the  confi- 
dence of  Maximilian  to  such  an  extent  that  in  1622  lie 
was  charged  by  Gregory  XV  with  a special  commission 
to  the  Spanish  court.  lie  translated  Castiglio’s  history 
of  the  Dominican  order  into  Italian  (Palermo,  1626, 2 
vols.  fol.).— Jocher,  A llgem.  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1795;  Ranke, 
Ilist.  of  the  Popes,  ii,  485. 

Hycena.  See  II  yes  a. 

Hyatt,  John,  a Calvinistic  Methodist  preacher  of 
considerable  talent,  was  born  at  Sherborne,  in  Dorset- 
shire, in  1767.  He  became  minister  of  a congregation 
at  Mere,  Wiltshire,  in  1798,  but  removed  in  I860  to  one 
at  Frome,  Somersetshire,  and  soon  afterwards  to  Totten- 
ham Court  Chapel  and  the  Tabernacle,  London.  Here 
he  was  co-pastor  with  the  Rev.  Matthew  Wilks  until  his 
death  in  1826.  His  principal  works  are,  Christian  Duty 
and  Encouragement  in  Times  of  Distress  (2d  edit.  Lornl. 

1810,  8vo) : — /Sermons  on  select  Subjects  (2d  ed.  London, 

1811,  8vo) : — Sermons  on  various  Subjects,  edited  by  his 
son,  Charles  Hyatt,  with  memoir  of  the  author  by  the 
Rev.  John  Morison,  etc.  (2d  ed.  Lond.  1828,  8vo). — Dar- 
ling, Cyclopaedia  Bibliographica,  i,  1597. 

Hydas'pes  (Y8d(nri]j),  a river  noticed  in  Judith 
i,  6,  in  connection  with  the  Euphrates  and  Tigris,  men- 
tioned by  Arrian  (hid.  4)  and  Strabo  (xv,  697),  which 
flowed  westwards  into  the  Indus,  and  is  now  called  Je- 
lum  (Ilawlinson,  Herod,  i,  558).  The  well-known  Hy- 
daspes  of  India  is  too  remote  to  accord  with  the  other 
localities  noticed  in  the  context.  Wc  may  perhaps 
identify  it  with  the  Choaspes  or  Eulceus  of  Susiana, 
which  was  called  Uydaspes  by  the  Romans  (Voss,  ad 
Justin,  ii,  14). 

Hyde,  Alvan,  D.D.,  a Congregational  minister, 
was  born  Feb.  2,  1768,  at  Norwich,  Conn.  He  gradu- 
ated at  Dartmouth  College  in  1788,  entered  the  minis- 
try in  June,  1790,  and  was  ordained  pastor  in  Lee  June 
6,  1792,  where  he  remained  until  his  death,  Dec.  4, 1833. 
Hyde  published  Sketches  of  the  Life  of  the  Rev.  Stephen 
West,  D.D.  (1818): — An  Essay  on  the  State  of  Infants 
(1830);  and  several  occasional  Sermons. — Sprague,  An- 
nals, ii,  300;  Theol.  Rev.  v,  544. 

Hyde,  Edward,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
was  born  in  Norwich,  Conn.,  March  31,  1786.  He  was 
converted  in  1803,  entered  the  New  England  Conference 
in  1809,  was  presiding  elder  on  Boston  District  in  1822— 
26,  and  again  in  1830,  and  meantime  four  years  on  New 
London  District,  and  in  1831  was  appointed  steward  of 
the  Wesleyan  Academy  at  Wilbraham,  where  he  re- 
mained until  his  death,  March  16,  1832.  His  indefati- 
gable and  successful  labors  were  very  A'aluable  to  the 
Church. — Minutes'of  Conferences,  i,  162;  Stevens,  Me- 
morials of  Methodism,  ii,  cxlii;  Funeral  Sermon,  by  Dr. 
Fisk.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Hyde,  Lavius,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
born  in  Franklin,  Conn,,  in  1789.  He  lost  his  father 
while  quite  young,  and  was  prepared  for  college  by  his 
brother,  the  Rev.  Alvan  Hyde,  D.D.  He  graduated  at 
Williams  College  in  1813,  and  afterwards  pursued  a 
course  of  theological  studies  at  Andover.  In  1818  he 
was  ordained  minister  over  a church  in  Salisbury,  Conn. ; 
in  1823  he  changed  to  Bolton,  Conn.,  served  subsequent- 
ly at  Ellington,  Wayland,  and  Becket,  Mass.,  and  final- 
ly again  at  Bolton.  At  the  age  of  seventy  he  retired 
from  the  active  work  of  the  ministry,  and  removed  to 
Vernon,  Conn.,  where  he  died,  April  3,  1865.  He  wrote 
a biography  of  his  brother,  Alvan  Hyde,  and  edited  Net- 
tleton’s  Village  Ilymns. — Appleton,  Am.  Annual  Cyclop. 
1865,  p.  636. 

Hyde,  Thomas,  D.D.,  a learned  English  divine 
and  Orientalist,  was  born  in  Shropshire  in  1636.  He 
was  educated  at  King’s  College,  Cambridge.  In  1653 
he  went  to.  London,  and  rendered  essential  service  in 
the  preparation  of  Walton’s  Polyglot  Bible.  lie  was 
admitted  fellow  of  Queen’s  College,  Oxford,  in  1659,  and 


afterwards  became  keeper  of  the  Bodleian  Library.  In 
1666  he  became  prebendary  of  Salisbury,  in  1678  arch- 
deacon of  Gloucester,  Arabic  professor  in  1691,  and  final- 
ly regius  professor  of  Hebrew  and  canon  of  Christ 
Church  in  1697.  He  died  in  1703.  His  principal  work 
is  Ilistoria  religionis  veterum  Persarum  eonimque  Ma- 
gorum,  ubi  etiam  nova  Abrahami  et  Mithree,  et  Vesta?, 
et  Manetis,  etc.  (Oxonii,  1700,  4to;  2d  edit.,  revised  and 
augmented  by  Hunt  and  Costar,  under  the  title  Veterum 
Persarum,  Parthorum  et  Medorum  Religionis  Ilistoria , 
Lond.  1760,  4to,  illustrated).  The  work  evinces  great 
research  and  considerable  acumen  in  sifting  the  ancient 
Greek  writers  and  some  Persian  works  posterior  to  the 
Hegira,  but,  in  consequence  of  the  want  of  the  most  es- 
sential documents,  such  as  the  sacred  books  of  the  an- 
cient Persians,  which  were  then  unknown  in  Europe, 
Hyde  necessarily  fell  into  some  errors.  Thus  he  main- 
tains that  Monotheism  prevailed  at  first  in  Persia,  was 
afterwards  mixed  with  Sabaiism,  was  brought  back  to 
its  original  purity  by  Abraham,  and  was  finally  lost 
again  by  being  connected  with  the  worship  of  the  heav- 
enly bodies.  The  incorrectness  of  the  opinion  has  since 
been  shown  by  abbot  Foucher  (in  Memo  ires  de  V A cade- 
mie  des  Inscriptions  et  Belles-Lettres,  1759),  and  especial- 
ly by  Anquetil  Dupcrron,  who  brought  to  France  the 
sacred  books  of  the  Persians.  Hyde’s  other  writings  are 
collected  in  Syntagma  dissert ationum,  quas  olim  auctor 
doctissimus  Thomas  Hyde,  S.T.P.,  separatim  edidit , ac- 
ccsserunt  nonnulla  ejusdem  opuscula  hactenus  inedita, 
etc.,  omnia  diligenter  recognita,  a Gregorio  Sharpe, 
LL.I).  (Oxonii,  1767,  2 vols.  4to).  See  Darling,  Cyclop. 
Bibliographiea,  i,  1598;  Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Cenerale, 
xxv,  691 ; English  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v.;  Hook,  Eccles.  Biog. 
vi,  239;  Allibone,  Dictionary  of  Authors,  i,  930. 

HydroparastatEe(i>£powapacrrdr«(,«yMan7,“of- 
ferers  of  water”),  a name  given  to  the  Eneratites  (q.v.) 
because  they  avoided  wine,  and  even  in  the  Lord’s  Sup- 
per used  nothing  but  water.  See  Tlieodoret,  I her.  Fab. 
i,  c.  xx ; Bingham,  Orig . Eccles.  bk.  xv,  ch.  ii,  § 7. 

Hyemantes  (winterers,  or  tossed  by  a winter  blast), 
an  epithet  given  by  the  Latin  fathers  to  demoniacs. — 
Neale’s  Introd.  to  the  Hist,  of  the  Eastern  Ch.  i,  209.  See 
Energumens  ; Exorcist. 

Hyena  ( vaiva , Ecclesiasticus  xiii,  18)  docs  not  oc- 
cur in  the  A.  V.  of  the  canonical  Scriptures,  but  is  prob- 
ably denoted  by  (tsabu'a,  streaked  or  ravenous , 

only  Jcr.  xii,  9 ; so  Sept,  vaiva,  but  Vulg.  avis  discolor, 
and  Autli.  Vers.  “ speckled  bird”),  as  the  context  and 
parallelism  of  the  preceding  verse  require;  an  identifi- 
cation disputed  by  some,  on  the  ground  that  the  animal 
is  not  mentioned  by  ancient  authors  as  occurring  in 
Western  Asia  before  the  Macedonian  conquest,  and  was 
scarcely  known  by  name  even  in  the  time  of  Pliny;  it 
has  since  been  ascertained,  however,  that  in  Romaic  or 
modern  Greek  the  word  krokalos  and  glanos  have  been 
substituted  for  the  ancient  term  hyena,  and  that  the  an- 
imal is  still  known  in  those  regions  by  names  cognate 
with  the  Hebrew  (see  Iitippel,  Abyss,  i,  227 ; Shaw,  Trav. 
154;  Kampfer,  A mao.  411  sq. ; Russell’s  Aleppo,  ii,  65 
sq. ; comp.  Pliny,  viii,  44;  xi,  67).  The  only  other  in- 
stance in  which  it  occurs  is  as  a proper  name,  Zeboim 
(1  Sam.  xiii,  18,  “the  valley  of  hyenas,”  Aquila ; Noli, 
xi,  34).  See  Zeboim.  The  Talmudical  writers  describe 
the  hyena  by  no  less  than  four  names,  of  which  tsabua 
is  one  (Lewysohn,  Zool.  § 119).  Bochart  (Ilieroz.  ii,  163 
sq.)  and  Taylor  (continuation  of  Calmet)  have  indicated 
what  is  probably  the  true  meaning  in  the  above  pas- 
sage in  Jer.,  of  SSQ2E  ait  tsabua,  the  striped  rusher, 
i.  e.  the  hyena,  turning  round  upon  his  lair — introduced 
after  an  allusion  in  the  previous  verse  to  the  lion  call- 
ing to  the  beasts  of  the  field  (other  hyenas  and  jackals) 
to  come  and  devour.  This  allusion,  followed  up  as  it  is 
by  a natural  association  of  ideas  with  a description  of 
the  pastor,  feeder,  or  rather  consumer  or  devourer  of 
the  vineyard,  treading  down  and  destroying  the  vines, 
I renders  the  natural  and  poetical  picture  complete ; for 


HYGINUS 


429 


IIYKSOS 


the  hyena  seeks  burrows  and  caverns  for  a lair;  like  the 
dog,  it  turns  round  to  lie  down;  howls,  and  occasionally 
acts  in  concert ; is  loathsome,  savage,  insatiable  in  ap- 
petite, offensive  in  smell,  and  will,  in  the  season,  like 
canines,  devour  grapes.  The  hyena  was  common  in  an- 
cient as  in  modern  Egypt,  and  is  constantly  depicted  on 
monuments  (Wilkinson,  i,  213,  225) ; it  must,  therefore, 
have  been  well  known  to  the  Jews,  as  it  is  now  very 
common  in  Palestine,  where  it  is  the  last  and  most  com- 
plete scavenger  of  carrion  (Wood,  Bible  Animals,  p.  62 
sq.).  Though  cowardly  in  his  nature,  the  hyena  is  very 
savage  when  once  he  attacks,  and  the  strength  of  his 
jaws  is  such  that  he  can  crunch  the  thigh-bone  of  an 
ox  (Livingstone’s  Travels , p GOO). 

“ Tsabua , therefore,  we  consider  proved  to  be,  gener- 
ically,  the  hyena;  more  specifically,  the  Canis  kycena  of 
Linn.,  the  Hycena  vulgaris  of  more  recent  naturalists,  the 
fooclh  of  Barbary,  the  dub , dubbah,  dabah,  zabak , and 
kaflaar  of  modern  Shemitic  nations ; and,  if  the  an- 
cients understood  anything  by  the  word,  it  was  also 
their  trochus.  The  striped  species  is  one  of  three  or 
four — all,  it  seems,  originally  African,  and,  by  following 
armies  and  caravans,  gradually  spread  over  Southern 
Asia  to  beyond  the  Ganges,  though  not  as  yet  to  the 
east  of  the  Bramapootra.  It  is  now  not  uncommon  in 
Asia  Minor,  and  has  extended  into  Southern  Tartary ; 
but  this  progress  is  comparatively  so  recent  that  no  oth- 
er than  Shemitic  names  are  well  known  to  belong  to  it. 
The  head  and  jaws  of  all  the  species  are  broad  and 
strong:  the  muzzle  truncated;  the  tongue  like  a rasp; 
the  teeth  robust,  large,  and  eminently  formed  for  biting, 
lacerating,  and  reducing  the  very  bone;  the  neck  stiff ; 


Hyena. 


the  body  short  and  compact;  the  limbs  tall,  with  only 
four  toes  on  each  foot ; the  fur  coarse,  forming  a kind  of 
semi-erectile  mane  along  the  back ; the  tail  rather  short, 
with  an  imperfect  brush,  and  with  a fetid  pouch  beneath 
it.  In  stature  the  species  varies  from  that  of  a large 
wolf  to  much  less.  Hyenas  are  not  bold  in  comparison 
with  wolves,  or  in  proportion  to  their  powers.  They  do 
not,  in  general,  act  collectively;  they  prowl  chiefly  in 
the  night;  attack  asses,  dogs,  and  weaker  animals;  feed 
most  willingly  on  corrupt  animal  offal,  dead  camels,  etc. ; 
and  dig  into  human  graves  that  are  not  well  protected 
with  stakes  and  brambles.  The  striped  species  is  of  a 
dirty  ashy  buff,  with  some  oblique  black  streaks  across 
the  shoulders  and  body,  and  numerous  cross-bars  on  the 
legs;  the  muzzle  and  throat  are  hlack,  and  the  tip  of  the 
tail  white”  (Kitto).  (See  Penny  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v.)  See 
Jackal;  Wolf;  Bear. 

Hyglnus,  considered  as  the  eighth  or  tenth  bishop 
of  Home,  appears  to  have  held  that  station  from  A.D. 
137  to  141 . According  to  the  Liber  pontifiealis,  he  was  a 
native  of  Athens,  and  before  his  election  to  the  see  of 
Borne  taught  philosophy.  Nothing  is  known  of  his 
life,  and  the  Liber  pontif.  merely  says  of  him,  “ Clerum 
composuit  et  distribuit  gradus.”  The  Pseudo  Decretals 
[see  Decretals]  ascribe  to  him  a number  of  rules  on 
Church  discipline,  and  he  is  said  to  have  introduced  the 
customs  of  godfathers  and  Church  consecrations,  but 
this  is  doubtful.  The  Martyrologies  give  some  the  10th, 
others  the  11th  of  January,  142,  as  the  date  of  his  death. 
Some  critics  deny  his  having  been  more  than  a simple 


confessor.  A certain  Ilyginns,  bishop  of  Cordova,  is 
said  to  have  been  the  first  opponent  of  Priscillian  (q.  v.). 
See  Papebroeh,  A eta  Sanctorum ; Tillemont,  Memoires ; 
Baillet,  Vies  des  Saints ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Genercile, 
xxv,  705 ; Dupin,  Eccles . Writers,  cent.  ii. 

Hyksds  ('Yicctmc,  correctly  explained  [comp.  Raw- 
linson,  llerod.  ii,  297]  by  Josephus  [Apion,  i,  14]  as  be- 
ing compounded  of  the  Egyptian  hyk,  “ king,”  and  sos, 
“shepherd”  or  “Arab,”  i.  e.  nomade),  a race  who  in- 
vaded Egypt,  and  constituted  the  15th  and  one  or  two 
of  the  following  dynasties,  according  to  Manetho  (see 
Kenrick,  Egypt  under  the  Pharaohs,  ii,  152  sq.),  espe- 
cially as  preserved  by  Josephus  (ut  supra):  “In  the 
reign  of  king  Timaus  there  came  up  from  the  east  men 
of  an  ignoble  race,  who  had  the  confidence  to  invade 
our  country,  and  easily  subdued  it  without  a battle, 
burning  the  cities,  demolishing  the  temples,  slaying  the 
men,  and  reducing  the  women  and  children  to  slavery.” 
They  made  Salatis,  one  of  themselves,  king : he  reigned 
at  Memphis,  and  made  the  upper  and  lower  region  trib- 
utary. Of  the  17tli  dynasty  also  were  forty-three  shep- 
herd kings,  called  Hyksos,  who  reigned,  perhaps  con- 
temporaneously with  the  preceding,  at  Diospolis.  In 
the  18th  dynasty  of  Diospolis  a rising  took  place,  and 
the  shepherd  kings  were  expelled  out  of  the  other  parts 
of  Egypt  into  the  district  of  Avaris,  which  they  forti- 
fied. Amosis  besieged  and  compelled  them  to  capitu- 
late ; on  which  they  left  Egypt,  in  number  240,000,  and 
“ marched  through  the  desert  towards  Syria,  and  built 
the  city  of  Jerusalem.”  The  last  few  words  seem  to 
render  it  probable  that  Manetho  confounded  the  Hyksos 
with  the  Israelites,  which  is  the  less  surprising,  since 
the  Hyksos  were,  as  lie  rightly  calls  them,  Phoenicians 
of  the  ancient,  if  not  original  race  which  inhabited 
Phoenicia,  or  Palestine  (taken  in  its  widest  sense),  be- 
fore the  conquest  of  the  country  by  the  Hebrews. 
Chronological  considerations  seem  to  refer  the  time  of 
the  dominion  of  the  Ilyskos  to  the  period  of  Abraham 
and  Joseph  (say  from  B.C.  2000  to  1500).  When  Jo- 
seph went  into  the  land  he  found  the  name  of  shepherd 
odious — which  agrees  with  the  hypothesis  that  places 
the  irruption  of  the  shepherd  kings  anterior  to  his  time; 
and  possibly  both  the  ease  with  which  he  rose  to  power 
and  the  fact  that  Jacob  turned  towards  Egypt  for  a 
supply  of  food  when  urged  by  want  may  be  readily  ac- 
counted for  on  the  supposition  that  a kindred  race  held 
dominion  in  the  land,  which,  though  hated  by  the  peo- 
ple, as  being  foreign  in  its  origin  and  oppressive  in  its 
character,  would  not  be  indisposed  to  show  favor  to 
members  of  the  great  Shemitic  family  to  which  they 
themselves  belonged.  The  irruption  into  Egypt,  and 
the  conquest  of  the  country  on  the  part  of  the  Phoeni- 
cian shepherds,  seems  to  have  been  a consequence  of 
the  general  pressure  of  population  from  the  north-east 
towards  the  south-west,  which  led  the  nomade  Shemitic 
tribes  first  to  overcome  the  original  inhabitants  of  Pal- 
estine, and,  continuing  in  the  same  line  of  advance,  then 
to  enter  and  subdue  Egypt.  The  invasion  of  the  Hyk- 
sos is  indeed  to  be  regarded  as  the  result  of  the  move- 
ment from  the  Euphrates  westward  of  the  most  power- 
fid  and  (comparatively)  most  civilized  people  then  found 
in  Western  Asia,  who  in  their  progress  subdued  or  ex- 
pelled in  the  coimtries  through  which  they  not  improb- 
ably were  urged  by  a pressure  from  other  advancing 
tribes,  nation  and  tribe  one  after  another,  driving  them 
down  towards  the  sea,  and  compelling  those  who  dwelt 
along  the  shores  of  the  Mediterranean  to  seek  shelter 
and  safety  in  the  islands  of  that  sea  and  other  distant 
parts.  To  conquerors  and  aggressors  of  the  character 
of  these  shepherd  hordes  Egypt  would  offer  special  at- 
tractions. They  continued  sweeping  onwards,  and  at 
last  entered  and  conquered  Egypt,  establishing  there  a 
new  dynasty,  which  was  hateful  because  foreign,  and 
because  of  a lower  degree  of  culture  than  the  Egyptians 
themselves  had  reached.  Nor  would  these  shepherds 
be  less  odious  because,  coming  from  the  east  and  imme- 
diately from  the  deserts  of  Arabia,  they  were  from  the 


HYKSOS 


430 


HYLOZOISM 


quarter  whence  the  inihl  and  cultivated  Egyptians  had  ' 
long  been  wont  to  suffer  from  the  predatory  incursions  1 
of  the  wild  nomade  tribes  ( Die  Phonizier,  by  Movers,  i 
Bonn,  1841;  Bortheau,  Geschichte  der  Israeliten , Got-  i 
tingen,  1842),  between  whom  and  the  agricultural  na-  i 
lives  of  the  country  different  pursuits,  habits,  and  tastes  i 
would  naturally  engender  animosities.  This  feeling  of 
alienation  exists  at  the  present  day.  The  Arab  is  still 
a depressed  and  despised  being  in  Egypt.  Bowring,  in 
his  Report  on  the  country,  remarks,  “It  is  scarcely  al- 
lowable even  to  send  a message  to  a person  in  authori- 
ty by  an  Arab  servant”  (p.  7).  The  expulsion  of  the 
shepherds  seems  to  have  been  strangely  confounded  by 
Josephus,  after  Manetho,  with  the  Exodus  of  the  Isra- 
elites. The  shepherds  were  conquerors,  rulers,  and  op- 
pressors; the  Israelites  guests  and  slaves.  The  shep- 
herds were  expelled,  the  Israelites  were  delivered.  Jo- 
sephus elsewhere  ( Apion , i,  26)  gives  from  Manetho  a 
narrative  of  another  event  which  wears  a much  nearer 
likeness  to  the  Exodus  (although  Josephus  expressly 
combats  such  an  identification)  in  the  case  of  a king 
Amenopliis,  who  was  ordered  by  the  gods  to  cleanse 
Egypt  of  a multitude  of  lepers  and  other  unclean  persons ; 
many  of  whom  were  drowned,  and  others  sent  in  great 
numbers  to  work  in  the  quarries  which  are  on  the  east 
side  of  the  Nile.  After  a time  they  were  permitted  to 
establish  themselves  in  Avaris,  which  had  been  aban- 
doned by  the  shepherds.  They  then  elected  a ruler, 
Osarsiph,  whose  name  wras  afterwards  changed  to  that 
of  Moses.  This  chief  “ made  this  law  for  them,  that 
they  should  not  worship  the  Egyptian  gods,  but  should 
kill  the  animals  held  sacred  by  the  Egyptians;  nor  were 
they  to  have  intercourse  with  any  but  such  as  were 
members  of  their  own  body — in  all  respects  aiming  to 
oppose  the  customs  and  influence  of  the  nations.  These, 
sending  for  aid  to  the  shepherds  who  had  settled  in  Je- 
rusalem, and  having  received  troops  to  the  number  of 
200,000  men,  were  met  by  Amenophis,  the  king,  with  a 
yet  larger  force,  but  not  attacked.  On  a subsequent 
occasion,  however,  they  were  assailed  by  the  Egyptians, 
beaten,  and  driven  to  the  confines  of  Syria.”  Lysima- 
chus  gives  an  account  not  dissimilar  to  this,  addi;.g 
that,  under  the  leadership  of  Moses,  these  mixed  hordes 
settled  in  Judaea  (Cory’s  Ancient  Fragments).  The  ac- 
count which  Diodorus  gives  of  the  migration  of  the  Is- 
raelites from  Egypt  to  Palestine  is  of  a similar  tenor. 
The  deviations  from  the  sacred  narrative  may  easily  be 
accounted  for  by  Egyptian  ignorance,  vanity,  and  pride. 
(See  Akers’s  Biblical  Chronology,  chap.  v).  It  is  also 
apparent  that  Josephus  considerably  travesties  the  orig- 
inal narrative  of  Manetho  (Kenrick,  Egypt,  ii,  159).  The 
expulsion  of  the  Ilyksos  seems  to  have  taken  place 
about  two  centuries  after  the  Exode  (q.  v.) 

If,  as  we  have  some  reason  to  believe,  and  as  the 
reader  may  see  satisfactorily  established  in  Movers  and 
Bcrtheau  (nt  supra),  a race  of  the  Shemitic  family, 
coming  down  from  the  upper  (Aram)  country  into  the 
lower  (Canaan),  in  course  of  time  subjugated  Egypt  and 
established  their  dominion,  maintaining  it  for  some  five 
hundred  years,  such  a historical  event  must  have  had 
a marked  influence  on  the  religion  of  the  land.  These 
invaders  are  described  (Herod,  ii,  128)  as  enemies  to  the 
religion  of  Egypt,  who  destroyed  or  closed  the  temples, 
broke  in  pieces  the  altars  and  images  of  the  gods,  and 
killed  the  sacred  animals.  Their  influence  on  the  Egyp- 
tian religion  was  probably  not  unlike  that  of  the  Per- 
sians on  the  Grecian,  having  for  its  aim  and  effect  to 
discountenance  and  destroy  a low  and  degrading  system 
of  idolatry;  for  the  worship  of  the  heavenly  bodies,  to 
which  the  Phoenician  equally  with  the  Persian  invaders 
were  given,  was  higher  in  its  character  and  effects  than 
the  service  of  the  ordinary  gods  of  Greece,  and  still 
more  so  than  the  degrading  homage  paid  by  the  Egyp- 
tians to  the  lowest  animals.  By  this  means  the  She- 
mitic religion  exerted  on  the  native  Egyptian  religion 
a decided  and  improving  influence,  -which  may  be  seen 
and  traced  in  that  element  of  the  religion  of  Egypt 


which  contains  and  presents  the  worship  of  the  heaven- 
ly bodies.  The  two  systems,  that  of  the  Egyptians  be- 
fore it  received  inoculation  from  the  East,  and  that  of 
the  Eastern  invaders,  agreed  in  this,  that  they  were  both 
the  worship  of  the  powers  of  nature;  but  they  differed 
in  this,  and  an  important  difference  it  was,  that  the 
Egyptians  adored  the  brute  creation,  the  Phoenicians 
the  host  of  heaven. — Ivitto.  (See  Stud,  vnd  Krit.  1839, 
ii,  393,  408;  Saalschlitz,  Forsdmngen,  abtli.  iii,  1849; 
Schulze,  De  fontibus  histories  Ilyksorum,  Berlin,  1848; 
Uhlemann,  Israeliten  und  Ilyksos  in  sEgypten,  Lpz.  1856.) 
See  Egypt;  Siiepherd-kings. 

Hylaret,  Maurice,  a French  theologian,  was  bom 
at  Angouleme  Sept.  5, 1539.  In  1551  he  entered  the  or- 
der of  the  “Cordeliers.”  About  1552  he  went  to  Paris 
to  continue  his  studies,  and  returned  to  Angouleme  in 
1557  to  be  ordained  for  the  priesthood.  He  now  de- 
voted his  time  exclusively  to  the  study  of  theology,  and 
in  1562  was  made  a professor  of  philosophy,  and  a short 
time  later  a professor  of  theology.  In  1566  he  made 
himself  quite  conspicuous  by  a public  controversy  with 
the  Calvinist  Godet.  In  1568  he  was  called  to  the  Sor- 
bonne,  and  was  honored  with  the  doctorate  two  years 
later.  Henceforward  he  preached  much,  and  the  ce- 
lebrity he  gained  as  a pulpit  orator  procured  him  a 
position  as  preacher  at  Orleans  in  1572.  He  died  in 
December,  1591.  Ilis  works  are,  Sacra  Decades  quin- 
quepartitee,  condones  quadragesimales,  atque  Paschales 
numero  quinquaginta  (Lyons,  1591,  2 vols.  8vo)  : — Con- 
donum  per  adventum  Enneades  sacra  quatuor,  homilias 
triginta  sex  complect entes,  e quibus  viginti  septem  priores 
Joelem  prophet,  cxplicant , norem  rero  posteriores  Evan- 
gelia  adrentus  et  festorum  per  id  tempus  occurrentium 
explicant  (Paris,  1591,  8vo) : — Homilies  in  Evangelia  do- 
minicalia  per  totum  annum  (Paris,  1604,  2 vols.  8vo). 
Dupin  also  ascribes  to  Hylaret  De  non  conveniendo  aim 
luereticis  et  de  non  ineundo  cum  hceretica  a viro  cathol- 
ico  conjugio  (Orl.  1587). — Iloefer,  Nour.  Biog.  Generate, 
xxv,  707  sq. 

Hyle  (i'\jj,  matter)  was,  according  to  the  doctrines 
of  the  Manichscans  (q.  v.),  the  Lord  of  darkness.  They 
held  that  the  world  is  governed  by  two  primary  princi- 
ples, viz.  “ a subtle  and  a gross  sort  of  matter,  or  light 
and  darkness,  separated  from  each  other  by  a narrow 
space,”  over  each  of  which  presides  an  eternal  Lord. 
God  they  termed  the  Lord  of  the  world  of  Light;  Hyle 
the  Lord  of  the  u orlel  of  darkness ; and  both  of  these 
worlds,  “ although  different  in  their  natures,  have  some 
things  in  common.  Each  is  distributed  into  five  op- 
posing elements,  and  the  same  number  of  provinces; 
both  are  equally  eternal,  and,  with  their  respective  lords, 
self-existent,  both  are  unchangeable,  and  exist  forever; 
both  are  of  vast  extent,  yet  the  world  of  light  seems  to 
fill  more  space  than  the  emjrire  of  darkness.  The  con- 
dition of  the  two  lords  presiding  over  the  two  kinds  of 
matter  is  equal,  but  they  are  totally  unlike  in  their  na- 
tures and  dispositions.  The  Lord  of  Light,  being  him-^ 
self  happy,  is  beneficent,  a lover  of  peace  and  quietness, 
just  and  wise;  the  Lore?  of  darkness,  being  himself  very 
miserable,  wishes  to  see  others  unhappy,  is  quarrelsome, 
unwise,  unjust,  irascible,  and  envious.  Yet  they  are 
equal  in  the  eternity  of  their  existence,  in  their  power 
to  beget  beings  like  themselves,  in  their  unchangeable- 
ness, and  in  their  power  and  knowledge ; and  yet  the 
King  of  light,  or  God,  excels  the  Prince  of  darkness,  or 
the  Damon,  in  power  and  knowledge.” — Mosheim,  Ch. 
Ilist.  of  the  frst  three  Centuries,  ii,  § 41,  p.  275;  Ncan- 
der,  Ilist.  of  Dogmas,  i,  118,  127,  181,  etc. 

Hylozoism  (vXrj,  wood,  used  by  ancient  philoso- 
phers to  signify  the  abstract  idea  of  matter;  and  £<*»/, 

1 life)  is  a term  for  the  atheistical  doctrine  which  teaches 

• that  life  and  matter  are  inseparable.  But  the  forms 

• which  have  grown  out  of  this  doctrine  have  been  rather 
i variable.  Thus  “ Strato  of  Lampsacus  held  that  the 
i ultimate  particles  of  matter  were  each  and  all  of  them 
; possessed  of  life,”  approaching,  of  course,  in  this  sense, 


HY3IEX 


431 


HYMENJEUS 


to  pantheism ; but  “ the  Stoics,  on  the  other  hand,  while 
they  did  not  accord  activity  or  life  to  every  distinct 
particle  of  matter,  held  that  the  universe,  as  a whole, 
was  animated  by  a principle  which  gave  to  it  motion, 
form,  and  life.”  The  followers  of  Plotinus,  who  held 
that  the  “ soul  of  the  universe”  animated  the  least  parti- 
cle of  matter;  or,  in  other  words,  while  they  admitted  a 
certain  material  or  plastic  life,  essential  and  substantial, 
ingenerable.  and  incorruptible,  attributed  all  to  matter, 
especially  favored  the  Stoical  doctrine,  and  “ Spinoza  as- 
serted that  all  things  were  alive  in  different  degrees  (‘  om- 
nia quamvis  diversis  gradibus  animata  tamcn  sunt’).” 
All  the  various  forms  of  this  doctrine  evidently  mistake 
force  for  life.  According  to  Leibnitz,  Boscovich,  and 
others,  “ Matter  is  always  endowed  with  force.  Even 
the  vis  inertice  ascribed  to  it  is  a force.  Attraction  and 
repulsion,  and  chemical  affinity,  all  indicate  activity  in 
matter;  but  life  is  a force  always  connected  with  or- 
ganization, which  much  of  matter  wants.  Spontaneous 
motion,  growth,  nutrition,  separation  of  parts,  genera- 
tion, are  phenomena  which  indicate  the  presence  of  life, 
which  is  obviously  not  coextensive  with  matter.”  See 
Fleming,  Vocabulary  of  Philos,  (edited  by  Ivrauth),  p.  2 19 
sq. ; Cudworth,  Intellect.  System , i,  106  sq.,  144  sq.,  etc. ; 
Ilallam,  Hist,  of  Europe , iv,  188. 

Hymen,  or  Hymenaeus,  in  Grecian  mythology, 
is  the  god  of  marriage.  Originally  the  word  seems  to 
have  denoted  only  the  bridal  song  of  the  companions  of 
the  bride,  sung  by  them  as  she  went  from  her  father’s 
house  to  that  of  the  bridegroom.  The  god  Hymen  is 
first  mentioned  by  Sappho.  “ The  legends  concerning 
him  are  various ; but  he  is  generally  said  to  be  a son  of 
Apollo  and  some  one  of  the  Muses.  He  is  represented 
as  a boy  with  wings  and  a garland,  a bigger  and  graver 
Cupid,  with  a bridal -torch  and  a veil  in  his  hands.” 
— Chambers,  Encyclop.  v,  494. 

Hymenae'us  (Yptvaiog,  hymeneal),  a professor  of 
Christianity  at  Ephesus,  who,  with  Alexander  (1  Tim.  i, 
20)  and  Philetus  (2  Tim.  ii,  18),  had  departed  from  the 
truth  both  in  principle  and  practice,  and  led  others  into 
apostasy  (Neander,  Pfianz.  i,  475).  The  chief  doctrinal 
error  of  these  persons  consisted  in  maintaining  that  “the 
resurrection  was  past  already.”  The  precise  meaning  of 
this  expression  is  by  no  means  clearly  ascertained : the 
most  general,  and  perhaps  best  founded  opinion  is,  that 
they  understood  the  resurrection  in  a figurative  sense  of 
the  great  change  produced  by  the  Gospel  dispensation. 
See  below.  Some  have  suggested  that  they  attempted 
to  support  their  views  by  the  apostle’s  language  in  his 
Epistle  to  the  Ephesians  ( vticpovg — avut^ioTrobjatv — 
avvj'iytipt v,  etc.,  ii,  1-5);  but  this  is  very  improbable; 
for,  if  such  misconception  of  his  language  had  arisen,  it 
might  easily  have  been  corrected ; not  to  say  that  one 
of  them  appears  to  have  been  personally  inimical  to  Paid 
(2  Tim.  iv,  14),  and  would  scarcely  have  appealed  to  him 
as  an  authority.  Most  critics  suppose  that  the  same  per- 
son is  referred  to  in  both  the  epistles  to  Timothy  by  the 
name  of  Hymemeus  (see  Heidenreich, Pastoralbr.  i,  1 1 1). 
Mosheim,  however,  contends  that  there  were  two.  He 
seems  to  lay  great  stress  on  the  apostle's  declaration  in 
1 Tim.  i,  20,  “ Whom  I have  delivered  unto  Satan,  that 
they  may  learn  not  to  blaspheme.”  But,  whatever  may 
be  the  meaning  of  this  expression,  the  infliction  was  ev- 
idently designed  for  the  benefit  and  restoration  of  the 
parties  (comp.  1 Cor.  v,  5),  and  was  therefore  far  from  in- 
dicating their  hopeless  and  abandoned  wickedness.  See 
below.  Nor  do  the  terms  employed  in  the  second  epis- 
tle import  a less  flagrant  violation  of  the  Christian  pro- 
fession than  those  in  the  first.  If  in  the  one  the  individ- 
uals alluded  to  are  charged  with  having  “discarded  a 
good  conscience”  and  “ made  shipwreck  of  faith,”  in  the 
other  they  are  described  as  indulging  “in  vain  and  pro- 
fane babblings,  which  would  increase  to  more  ungodli- 
ness,” as  “having  erred  concerning  the  truth,”  and 
“overthrowing  the  faith”  of  others.  These  can  hardly 
be  said  to  be  “ two  distinct  characters,  having  nothing 
in  common  but  the  name”  (Mosheim’s  Commentaries , i, 


304-306).  For  other  interpretations  of  2 Tim.  ii,  1 8,  see 
Gill’s  Commentary,  ad  loc.,  and  Walehii  Miscellanea  Sa- 
cra, i,  4;  I)e  Ilymenao  Phileto,  Jen.  1735,  and  Amstel. 
1744. — Kitto.  Two  points  referred  to  above  require  ful- 
ler elucidation. 

1,  The  Error  of  Ilymemeus. — This  was  one  that  had 

been  in  part  appropriated  from  others,  and  has  frequent- 
ly been  revived  since  with  additions.  What  initiation 
was  to  the  Pythagoreans,  wisdom  to  the  Stoics,  science 
to  the  followers  of  Plato,  contemplation  to  the  Peripatet- 
ics, that  “ knowledge”  (yvwaig')  was  to  the  Gnostics.  As 
there  were  likewise  in  the  Greek  schools  those  who 
looked  forward  to  a complete  restoration  of  all  things 
((’nroKarafTTamg,  see  Ileyne,  ad  Virg.  Eel.  iv,  5 ; comp. 
sEn.  vi,  745), so  there  was  “a  regeneration”  (Tit.  iii,  5; 
Matt,  xix,  28),  “a  new  creation”  (2  Cor.  v,  17 ; see  Al- 
ford, ad  loc. ; Rev.  xxi,  1),  “ a kingdom  of  heaven  and  of 
Messiah  or  Christ”  (Matt,  xiii;  I’cv.  vii) — and  herein 
popular  belief  among  the  Jews  coincided — unequivocal- 
ly propounded  in  the  N.  T. ; but  here  with  this  remark- 
able difference,  viz.,  that  in  a great  measure  it  was  pres- 
ent as  well  as  future — the  same  thing  in  germ  that  was 
to  be  had  in  perfection  eventually.  “The  kingdom  of 
God  is  within  you,”  said  our  Lord  (Luke  xvii,21).  “lie 
that  is  spiritual  judgeth  all  things,”  said  Paul  (1  Cor.  ii, 
15).  “ He  that  is  born  of  God  cannot  sin,”  said  John  (1 

Ep.  iii,  9).  There  are  likewise  two  deaths  and  two  res- 
urrections spoken  of  in  the  N.  T. ; the  first  of  each  sort, 
that  of  the  soul  to  and  from  sin  (John  iii,  3-8),  “the 
hour  which  now  is”  (ibid,  v,  24,25,  on  which  see  Augus- 
tine, De  Civ.  Dei,  xx,  6) ; the  second,  that  of  the  body  to 
and  from  corruption  (1  Cor.  xv,  36-44 ; also  John  v,  28, 
29),  which  last  is  prospective.  Now,  as  the  doctrine  of 
the  resurrection  of  the  body  was  found  to  involve  im- 
mense difficulties  even  in  those  early  idays  (Acts  xvii, 
32  ; 1 Cor.  xv,  35 : how  keenly  they  were  pressed  may 
be  seen  in  Augustine,  De  Civ.  Dei,  xxii,  12  sq.),  while, 
on  the  other  hand,  there  was  so  great  a predisposition 
in  the  then  current  philosophy  (not  oven  extinct  now) 
to  magnify  the  excellence  of  the  soul  above  that  of  its 
earthly  tabernacle,  it  was  at  once  the  easier  and  more 
attractive  course  to  insist  upon  and  argue  from  the  force 
of  those  passages  of  Holy  Scripture  which  enlarge  upon 
the  glories  of  the  spiritual  life  that  now  is,  under  Christ, 
and  to  pass  over  or  explain  away  allegorically  all  that 
refers  to  a future  state  in  connection  with  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  body.  In  this  manner  we  may  derive  the 
first  errors  of  the  Gnostics,  of  whom  Hyraenreus  was  one 
of  the  earliest.  They  were  spreading  when  John  wrote ; 
and  his  grand-disciple,  Irenanis,  compiled  a voluminous 
work  against  them  (adv.  I/cer.).  A good  account  of 
their  full  development  is  given  by  Gieseler,  E.  II.,  Per. 
i,  Div.  i,  § 44  sq.  See  Resurrection. 

2.  The  Sentence  passed  upon  him. — It  has  been  asserted 
by  some  writers  of  eminence  (see  Com.  a Lapide,  ad  1 
Cor.  v,  5)  that  the  “ delivering  to  Satan”  is  a mere  syn- 
onym for  ecclesiastical  excommunication.  Such  can 
hardly  be  the  case.  The  apostles  possessed  many  ex- 
traordinary prerogatives,  which  none  have  since  arro- 
gated. Even  the  title  which  they  bore  has  been  set 
apart  to  them  ever  since.  The  shaking  off  the  dust  of 
their  feet  against  a city  that  would  not  receive  them 
(Matt,  x,  14),  although  an  injunction  afterwards  given 
to  the  Seventy  (Luke  x,  11),  and  one  which  Paul  found 
it  necessary  to  act  upon  twice  in  the  course  of  his  min- 
istry (Acts  xiii,  51,  and  xviii,  6),  has  never  been  a 
practice  since  with  Christian  ministers.  “Anathema,” 
says  Bingham,  “is  a word  that  occurs  frequently  in 
the  ancient  canons”  ( Antiq . xvi,  2,  16),  but  the  form 
“Anathema  Maranatha”  is  one  that  none  have  ever  ven- 
tured upon  since  Paul  (1  Cor.  xvi,  22).  As  the  apostles 
healed  all  manner  of  bodily  infirmities,  so  they  seem  to 
have  possessed  and  exercised  the  same  power  in  inflict- 
ing them — a power  far  too  perilous  to  be  continued  when 
the  manifold  exigencies  of  the  apostolical  age  had  passed 
away.  Ananias  and  Sapphira  both  fell  down  dead  at 
the  rebuke  of  Peter  (Acts  v,  5, 10) ; two  words  from  the 


HYMN 


432 


HYMN 


same  lips,  “ Tabitha,  arise,”  sufficed  to  raise  Dorcas  from 
the  (lead  (ibid,  ix,  40).  Paul’s  first  act  in  entering  upon 
liis  ministry  was  to  strike  Elymas  the  sorcerer  with 
blindness,  his  own  sight  having  been  restored  to  him 
through  the  medium  of  a disciple  (ibid.  ix.  17.  and  xiii, 
11),  while  soon  afterwards  we  read  of  his  healing  the 
cripple  of  Lystra  (ibid,  xiv,  8).  Even  apart  from  actual 
intervention  by  the  apostles,  bodily  visitations  are  spoken 
of  in  the  case  of  those  who  approached  the  Lord’s  Supper 
unworthily,  when  as  yet  no  discipline  had  been  establish- 
ed: “For  this  cause  many  are  weak  and  sickly  among 
you,  and  a good  number  (licavoi,  in  the  former  case  it  is 
iroWoi)  sleep”  (1  Cor.xi,30). 

On  the  other  hand,  Satan  was  held  to  be  the  instru- 
ment or  executioner  of  all  these  visitations.  Such  is 
the  character  assigned  to  him  in  the  book  of  Job  (i,6-l2; 
ii,  1-7).  Similar  agencies  are  described  1 Kings  xxii, 
19-22,  and  1 Chron.  xxi,  1.  In  Psa.  lxxviii,  49,  such  are 
the  causes  to  which  the  plagues  of  Egypt  are  assigned. 
Even  our  Lord  submitted  to  be  assailed  by  him  more 
than  once  (Matt,  iv,  1-10;  Luke  iv,  13  says,  “Departed 
from  him  for  a season”) ; and  “ a messenger  of  Satan 
was  sent  to  buffet”  the  very  apostle  whose  act  of  deliver- 
ing another  to  the  same  power  is  now  under  discussion. 
At  the  same  time,  large  powers  over  the  world  of  spirits 
were  authoritatively  conveyed  by  our  Lord  to  his  im- 
mediate followers  (to  the  Twelve,  Luke  ix,  1;  to  the 
Seventy,  as  the  results  showed,  ibid,  x,  17-20).  See  Sa- 
tan. 

It  only  remains  to  notice  five  particulars  connected 
with  its  exercise,  which  the  apostle  himself  supplies:  1. 
That  it  was  no  mere  prayer,  but  a solemn  authoritative 
sentence  pronounced  in  the  name  and  power  of  Jesus 
Christ  (1  Cor.  v,  3-5);  2.  That  it  was  never  exercised 
upon  any  without  the  Church  : “Them  that  arc  without 
God  judgeth”  (ibid,  v,  13), he  says  in  express  terms;  3. 
That  it  was  “for  the  destruction  of  the  flesh,”  i.  e.  some 
bodily  visitation ; 4.  That  it  was  for  the  improvement 
of  the  offender ; that  “ his  spirit  might  be  saved  in  the 
day  of  the  Lord  Jesus”  (ibid,  v,  5):  and  that  “he  might 
learn  not  to  blaspheme”  while  upon  earth  (1  Tim.  i,  20) ; 
5.  That  the  apostle  could  in  a given  case  empower  others 
to  pass  such  sentence  in  his  absence  (I  Cor.  v,  3, 4).  See 
Anathema. 

Thus,  while  the  “ delivering  to  Satan”  may  resemble 
ecclesiastical  excommunication  in  some  respects,  it  has 
its  own  characteristics  likewise,  which  show  plainly  that 
one  is  not  to  be  confounded  or  placed  on  the  same  level 
with  the  other.  Nor  again  does  Paul  himself  deliver  to 
Satan  all  those  in  whose,  company  he  bids  his  converts 
“ not  even  to  eat”  (1  Cor.  v,  11).  See  an  able  review  of 
the  whole  subject  by  Bingham,  Antiq.  vi,  2, 15. — Smith. 
See  Excommunication. 

Hymn  ('' Ypvog ).  This  term,  as  used  by  the  Greeks, 
primarily  signified  simply  a song  (comp.  Homer,  Oil.  viii, 
429 ; Ilesiod,  Op.  et  Dies,  G59 ; Pindar,  Oh  i,  170 ; xi,  74 ; 
Isthm.  iv,  74 ; Pyth.  x,  82 ; /Esch.  Eum.  331 ; Soph.  Antig. 
809 ; Plato,  Republ.  v,  459,  E,  etc.) ; we  find  instances 
even  in  which  the  cognate  verb  vpvtiv  is  used  in  a bad 
sense  (c pavXiog  iic\ap(3dvtTai , Eustath.  p.  (534;  comp. 
Soph.  Elect.  382 ; (Ed.  Tyr.  1275;  Eurip.  Med.  425)  ; but 
usage  ultimately  appropriated  the  term  to  songs  in  praise 
of  the  gods.  We  know  that  among  the  Greeks,  as 
among  most  of  the  nations  of  antiquity,  the  chanting  of 
songs  in  praise  of  their  gods  was  an  approved  part  of 
their  worship  (Clem.  Alex.  Strom,  vi,  G33,  ed.  Sylburg.; 
Porphyr.  de  A bstin.  iv,  sec.  8 ; Pliurnutus,  De  Eat.  Dear.  c. 
14 ; Alex,  ab  Alex.  Gen.  Dies,  iv,  c.  17,  s.  f. ; Spanheim  in 
not.  ad  Callimach inn,  p.  2 ; comp.  Meiners,  Geschickte  aller 
Religionen,  c.  13) ; and  even  at  their  festive  entertain- 
ments such  songs  were  sometimes  sung  (Athen.  Deipnas. 
xiv,  xv,  14;  Polyb.  Hist,  iv,  20,  ed.  Ernesti).  Besides 
those  hymns  to  different  deities  which  have  come  down 
to  us  as  the  composition  of  Callimachus,  Orpheus,  Ho- 
mer, Linus,  Cleanthes,  Sappho,  and  others,  -we  may  with 
confidence  refer  to  the  choral  odes  of  the  tragedians  as 
affording  specimens  of  these  sacred  songs,  such  of  them, 


at  least,  as  were  of  a lyric  character  (Snedorf,  De  Hymnis 
Yet.  Grice.  p.  19).  Such  songs  were  properly  called  hymns. 
Hence  Arrian  says  distinctly  (De  Expeil.  Alex.  iv,  11, 2), 
vpvoi  piv  ig  rovg  Stovg  Troiovvrai,  tiraivoL  et  ig  dv- 
0pu)7rovg.  So  also  Phavorinus : vpvog,  i)  7rpbg  Seov  tySi). 
Augustine  (in  Psa.  Ixxii)  thus  fully  states  the  meaning 
of  the  term : “ Hymni  laudes  sunt  Dei  cum  cantico. 
Hymni  cantus  sunt,  continentes  laudes  Dei.  Si  sit  laus, 
et  non  sit  Dei,  non  est  hynmus.  Si  sit  laus  et  Dei  laus, 
et  non  cantatur,  non  est  hymnus,  Oportet  ergo  ut  si  sit 
hymnus,  habeat  haec  tria,  et  laudem  et  Dei  et  canticum ." 
See  Chant. 

“ Hymn,”  as  such,  is  not  used  in  the  English  version 
of  the  O.  T.,  and  the  noun  only  occurs  twice  in  the  N.T. 
(Eph.  v,  19;  Col.  iii,  IG),  though  in  the  original  of  the 
latter  the  derivative  verb  (bpviui)  occurs  in  four  places 
(“sing  a hymn,”  Matt. xxvi, 30;  Mark  xiv.  26;  “sing 
praises,” Acts  xvi,  25;  lleb.  ii,  12).  The  Sept.,  however, 
employs  it  freely  in  translating  the  Hebrew  names  for  al- 
most every  kind  of  poetical  composition  (Schleusn.  Lex. 
vpvog).  In  fact,  the  word  does  not  seem  to  have  in  the 
Sept,  any  very  special  meaning,  and  hence  it  calls  the 
Heb.book  of  Tehillim  the  book  of  Psalms , not  of  I/ymns; 
yet  it  frequently  uses  the  noun  vpvog  or  the  verb  vpv’tu) 
as  an  equivalent  of  psalm  (e.g.  1 Chron.  xxv,  G;  2 Chron. 
vii,  G ; xxiii,  13;  xxix,  30 ; Neh.  xii,  24;  Psa.  xl,  1,  and 
the  titles  of  many  other  psalms).  The  word  psalm, 
however,  generally  had  for  the  later  Jews  a definite 
meaning,  while  the  word  hymn  was  more  or  less  vague 
in  its  application,  and  capable  of  being  used  as  occasion 
should  arise.  If  a new  poetical  form  or  idea  shoidd  be 
produced,  the  name  of  hymn,  not  being  embarrassed  by 
a previous  determination,  was  ready  to  associate  itself 
with  the  fresh  thought  of  another  literature.  This  seems 
to  have  actually  been  the  case.  See  Song. 

Among  Christians  the  hymn  has  always  been  some- 
thing different  from  the  psalm ; a different  conception 
in  thought,  a different  type  in  composition.  See  II ym- 
nology.  The  “ hymn"  which  our  Lord  sung  with  his 
disciples  at  the  Last  Supper  is  generally  supposed  to 
have  been  the  latter  part  of  the  Hallel,  or  series  of 
psalms  which  were  sung  by  the  Jews  on  the  night  of 
the  Passover,  comprehending  Psa.  cxiii-cxviii ; Psa. 
exiii  and  cxiv  being  sung  before,  and  the  rest  after  the 
Passover  (Buxtorfii  Lex.  Talm.  s.  v.  quoted  by  Kui- 

nol  on  Matt,  xxvi,  30;  Lightfoot’s  Jleb.  and  Talm.  Ex- 
ercitations  on  Mark  xiv,  26 ; 1 1 or/rs,  xi,  435).  See  IIal- 
i.el.  But  it  is  obvious  that  the  word  hymn  is  in  this 
ease  not  applied  to  an  individual  psalm,  but  to  a number 
of  psalms  chanted  successively,  and  altogether  forming 
a kind  of  devotional  exercise  which  is  not  unaptly  call- 
ed a hymn.  The  prayer  in  Acts  iv,  24-30  is  not  a hymn, 
unless  we  allow  lion-metrical  as  well  as  metrical  hymns. 
It  may  have  been  a hymn  as  it  was  originally  uttered; 
but  we  can  only  judge  by  the  Greek  translation,  and 
this  is  without  metre,  and  therefore  not  properly  a hymn. 
In  the  jail  at  Philippi,  Paul  and  Silas  “ sang  hymns”  (A. 
V.  “praises”)  unto  God,  and  so  loud  was  their  song  that 
their  fellow-prisoners  heard  them.  This  must  have  been 
what  we  mean  by  singing,  and  not  merely  recitation. 
It  was,  in  fact,  a veritable  singing  of  hymns.  It  is  re- 
markable that  the  noun  hymn  is  only  used  in  reference 
to  the  services  of  the  Greeks,  and  in  the  same  passages 
is  clearty  distinguished  from  the  psalm  (Eph.  v,  19;  Col. 
iii,  IG),  “psalms,  and  hymns,  and  spiritual  songs.”  It  has 
been  conjectured  that  by  “psalms  and  hymns”  the  po- 
etical compositions  of  the  Old  Testament  are  chiefly  to 
be  understood,  and  that  the  epithet  “ spiritual,”  here  ap- 
plied to  “ songs,”  is  intended  to  mark  those  devout  effu- 
sions which  resulted  from  the  spiritual  gifts  granted  to 
the  primitive  Church;  yet  in  1 Cor. xiv,  2G,  a produc- 
tion of  the  latter  class  is  called  “ a psalm.”  Josephus,  it 
may  be  remarked,  used  the  terms  vpvai  and  tySai  in 
reference  to  the  Psalms  of  David  (Ant.  vii,  12, 3).  See 
Psalm. 

It  is  probable  that  no  Greek  version  of  the  Psalms, 
even  supposing  it  to  be  accommodated  to  the  Greek 


HYMN- 


433 


IIYMXOLOGY 


metres,  would  take  root  in  the  affections  of  the  Gentile 
converts.  It  was  not  only  a question  of  metre,  it  was  a 
question  of  tune  ; and  Greek  tunes  required  Greek  hymns. 
So  it  was  in  Syria.  Richer  in  tunes  than  Greece,  for 
Greece  had  but  eight,  while  Syria  had  275  (Benedict. 
Prof.  vol.  v,  Op.  Eph.  Syr.'),  the  Syrian  hymnographers 
revelled  in  the  varied  luxury  of  their  native  music ; and 
the  result  was  that  splendid  development  of  the  Ilymn, 
as  moidded  by  the  genius  of  Bardesanes,  Harmonies,  and 
Ephraem  Syrus.  In  Greece,  the  eight  tunes  which  seem 
to  have  satisfied  the  exigencies  of  Church  music  were 
probably  accommodated  to  fixed  metres,  each  metre  be- 
ing wedded  to  a particular  tune ; an  arrangement  to 
which  we  can  observe  a tendency  in  the  Directions  about 
tunes  ami  measures  at  the  end  of  our  English  version  of 
the  Psalms.  This  is  also  the  case  in  the  German  hym- 
nology,  where  certain  ancient  tunes  are  reeognised  as 
models  for  the  metres  of  later  compositions,  and  their 
names  are  always  prefixed  to  the  hymns  in  eommon  use. 
See  Music. 

It  is  worth  while  inquiring  what  profane  models  the 
Greek  hymnographers  ehose  to  work  after.  In  the  old 
religion  of  Greece  the  word  hymn  had  already  acquired 
a sacred  and  liturgical  meaning,  which  could  not  fail  to 
suggest  its  application  to  the  productions  of  the  Chris- 
tian muse.  So  much  for  the  name.  The  special  forms 
of  the  Greek  hymn  were  various.  The  Homeric  and 
Orphie  hymns  were  written  in  the  epic  style,  and  in 
hexameter  verse.  Their  metre  was  not  adapted  for 
singing;  and  therefore,  though  they  may  have  been  re- 
cited, it  is  not  likely  that  they  were  sung  at  the  celebra- 
tion of  the  mysteries.  We  turn  to  the  Pindaric  hymns, 
and  here  we  find  a sufficient  variety  of  metre,  and  a defi- 
nite relation  to  music.  These  hymns  were  sung  to  the 
accompaniment  of  the  lyre,  and  it  is  very  likely  that 
they  engaged  the  attention  of  the  early  hymn-writers. 
The  dithyramb,  with  its  development  into  the  dramatic 
chorus,  was  sufficiently  connected  with  musical  tradi- 
tions to  make  its  form  a fitting  vehicle  for  Christian  po- 
etry; and  there  certainly  is  a dithyrambic  savor  about 
the  earliest  known  Christian  hymn,  as  it  appears  in 
Clem.  Alex.  p.  3 12,  313,  ed  Potter. 

The  first  impulse  of  Christian  devotion  was  to  run 
into  the  moulds  ordinarily  used  by  the  worshippers  of 
the  old  religion.  This  was  more  than  an  impulse — it 
was  a necessity,  and  a twofold  necessity.  The  new 
spirit  was  strong;  but  it  had  two  limitations:  the  diffi- 
culty of  conceiving  a new  musico-poetical  literature; 
and  the  quality  so  peculiar  to  devotional  music,  of  lin- 
gering in  the  heart  after  the  head  has  been  convinced 
and  the  belief  changed.  The  old  tunes  would  be  a real 
necessity  to  the  new  life;  and  the  exile  from  his  an- 
cient faith  would  delight  to  hear  on  the  foreign  soil  of 
a new  religion  the  familiar  melodies  of  home.  Dean 
Trench  has  indeed  labored  to  show  that  the  reverse  was 
the  case,  and  that  the  early  Christian  shrank  with  hor- 
ror from  the  sweet  but  polluted  enchantments  of  his  un- 
believing state.  We  can  only  assent  to  this  in  so  far  as 
we  allow  it  to  be  the  second  phase  in  the  history  of 
hymns.  When  old  traditions  died  away,  and  the  Chris- 
tian acquired  not  only  a new  belief,  but  a new  social  hu- 
manity, it  was  possible,  and  it  was  desirable  too,  to  break 
forever  the  attenuated  thread  that  bound  him  to  the  an- 
cient world.  Thus  it  was  broken  ; and  the  trochaic  and 
iambic  metres,  unassoeiated  as  they  were  with  heathen 
worship,  though  largely  associated  with  the  heathen 
drama,  obtained  an  aseendant  in  the  Christian  Church. 
In  1 Cor.  xiv,  26,  allusion  is  made  to  improvised  hymns, 
which,  being  the  outburst  of  a passionate  emotion,  would 
probably  assume  the  dithyrambic  form.  But  attempts 
have  been  made  to  detect  fragments  of  aneient  hymns 
conformed  to  more  obvious  metres  in  Eph.  v,  14;  James 
i,  17 ; Rev.  i,  8 sq. ; xv,  3.  These  pretended  fragments, 
however,  may  with  much  greater  likelihood  be  referred 
to  the  swing  of  a prose  composition  unconsciously  cul- 
minating into  metre.  It  was  in  the  Latin  Church  that 
the  trochaic  and  iambic  metres  became  most  deeplv  root- 
IV.— E e 


ed,  and  acquired  the  greatest  depth  of  tone  and  grace  of 
finish.  As  an  exponent  of  Christian  feeling  they  soon 
superseded  the  accentual  hexameters;  they  were  used 
mnemonically  against  the  heathen  and  the  heretics  by 
Conunodianus  and  Augustine.  The  introduction  of 
hymns  into  the  Latin  Church  is  commonly  referred  to 
Ambrose.  But  it  is  impossible  to  conceive  that  the  West 
should  have  been  so  far  behind  the  East:  similar  neces- 
sities must  have  produced  similar  results;  and  it  is  more 
likely  that  the  tradition  is  due  to  the  very  marked  prom- 
inence of  Ambrose  as  the  greatest  of  all  the  Latin  hym- 
nographers. 

The  trochaic  and  iambic  metres,  thus  impressed  into 
the  service  of  the  Church,  have  continued  to  hold  their 
ground,  and  are,  in  fact,  the  7’s,  S.M.,C.M.,  and  L.M.of 
our  modem  hymns,  many  of  which  are  translations,  or, 
at  any  rate,  imitations  of  Latin  originals.  These  metres 
were  peculiarly  adapted  to  the  grave  and  sombre  spirit 
of  Latin  Christianity.  Less  ecstatic  than  the  varied 
chorus  of  the  Greek  Church,  they  tlid  not  soar  upon  the 
pinion  of  a lofty  praise  so  much  as  they  drooped  and 
sank  into  the  depths  of  a great  sorrow.  They  were  sub- 
jective rather  than  objective;  they  appealed  to  the  heart 
more  than  to  the  understanding;  and,  if  the}'  contained 
less  theology,  they  were  fuller  of  a rich  Christian  hu- 
manity. (See  Dcyling,  Obss.  Sacr. iii, 430 ; Hilliger,  De 
Psaf.  Hymn,  atque  odcir.  sac.  discrimine.X itch.  1720 ; Ger- 
bert,  De  cantu  et  musico , Bamb.  et  Frib.  1774, 2 vols.4to; 
Rheinwald,  Christl.  Arckaol.  p.  262.)  Ouj  information 
respecting  the  hymnology  of  the  first  Christians  is  ex- 
tremely scanty : the  most  distinct  notice  we  possess  of  it 
is  that  contained  in  Pliny’s  celebrated  epistle  (Ep.x, 97): 
“ Carmen  Christo  quasi  deo,  dicere  secum  invicem."  (See 
Augusti,  Jlandbuch  der  Ckristlichen  Archaoloyie,  ii,  1- 
160 ; Walchii  Miscellanea  Sacra,  i,  2 ; De  hymnis  ecclesice 
A postolicte,  AmsteL  1744 ; and  other  monographs  cited 
in  Yolbeding,  Index  Programmatum,  p.  133.) — Ivitto; 
Smith. 

Hymnar  or  Hymnal  is  the  name  by  which  is 
designated  a Chinch  book  containing  hymns.  Such  a 
hymnar,  according  to  Gennadius,  was  compiled  by  Pau- 
linos ofNola  (q.  v.). — Walcott,  Sacred  Arckaol.  p.  320; 
Augusti,  Christl.  Arckaol.  iii,  710  sq. 

Hymnarium.  See  Hymnar. 

Hymnology.  “ Poetry  and  its  twin  sister  music 
are  the  most  sublime  and  spiritual  arts,  and  are  much 
more  akiu  to  the  genius  of  Christianity,  and  minister 
far  more  copiously  to  the  purposes  of  devotion  and  edifi- 
cation than  architecture,  painting,  and  sculpture.  They 
employ  word  and  tone,  and  can  speak  thereby  more  di- 
rectly to  the  spirit  than  the  plastic  arts  by  stone  and 
color,  and  give  more  adequate  expression  to  the  whole 
wealth  of  the  world  of  thought  and  feeling.  In  the 
Old  Testament,  as  is  well  known,  they  were  essential 
parts  of  divine  worship;  and  so  they  have  been  in  all 
ages,  and  almost  all  branches  of  the  Christian  Church. 
Of  the  various  species  of  religious  poetry,  the  hymn  is 
the  earliest  and  most  important.  It  has  a rich  history, 
in  which  the  deepest  experiences  of  Christian  life  are 
stored.  But  it  attained  full  bloom  (as  we  will  notice  be- 
low) in  the  evangelical  Church  of  the  German  and  Eng- 
lish tongue,  where  it,  like  the  Bible,  became  for  the  first 
time  truly  the  possession  of  the  people,  instead  of  being 
restricted  to  priest  or  choir”  (Sehaff,  Ch.  History).  “A 
hymn  is  a lyrical  discourse  to  the  feelings.  It  should 
either  excite  or  express  feeling.  The  recitation  of  his- 
torical facts,  descriptions  of  scenery,  narrations  of  events, 
meditations,  may  all  tend  to  inspire  feeling.  Hymns  are 
not  to  be  excluded,  therefore,  because  they  are  deficient  in 
lyrical  form  or  in  feeling,  if  experience  shows  that  they 
have  power  to  excite  pious  emotions.  Not  many  of 
Newton’s  hymns  can  be  called  poetical,  yet  few  hymns 
in  the  English  language  are  more  useful”  (Beecher, 
Preface  to  the  Plymouth  Collection).  The  hymn,  as 
such,  is  not  intended  to  be  didactic,  and  yet  it  is  one 
of  the  surest  means  of  conveying  “ sound  doctrine,”  and 


HYMXOLOGY 


434 


HYMXOLOGY 


of  perpetuating  it  in  the  Church.  The  Greek-and  Latin 
fathers  well  understood  this.  Bardesanes  (see  below) 
“diffused  his  Gnostic  errors  in  Syriac  hymns;  and  till 
that  language  ceased  to  he  the  living  organ  of  thought, 
tlic  Syrian  fathers  adopted  this  mode  of  inculcating 
truth  in  metrical  compositions.  The  hymns  of  Arius 
were  great  favorites,  and  contributed  to  spread  his  pe- 
culiar doctrines.  Chrysostom  found  the  hymns  of  Arian 
worship  so  attractive  that  he  took  care  to  counteract 
the  effect  of  them  as  much  as  possible  by  providing  the 
Catholic  Church  with  metrical  compositions.  Augus- 
tine also  composed  a hymn  in  order  to  check  the  errors 
of  the  Donatists,  whom  he  represents  as  making  great 
use  of  newly-composed  hymns  for  the  propagation  of 
their  opinions.  The  writings  of  Epliraem  Syrus,  of  the 
4th  century,  contain  hymns  on  various  topics,  relating 
chiefly  to  the  religious  questions  of  the  day  which  agi- 
tated the  Church.”  Yet  a mere  setting  forth  of  Chris- 
tian doctrine  in  verse  does  not  constitute  a hymn;  the 
thoughts  and  the  language  of  the  Scriptures  must  be  re- 
produced in  a lyrical  way  in  order  to  serve  the  needs  of 
song.  The  most  popular  and  lasting  hymns  are  those 
which  are  most  lyrical  in  form,  and  at  the  same  time 
most  deeply  penetrated  with  Christian  life  and  feeling. 
Nor  can  hymns,  in  the  proper  sense  of  the  word,  be  other 
than  popular.  The  Romish  Church  discourages  congre- 
gational worship,  and  therefore  she  produces  few  hymns, 
notwithstanding  the  number  of  beautiful  religious  com- 
positions wlych  are  to  be  found  in  her  offices,  and  the 
fine  metrical  productions  of  the  Middle  Ages,  of  which 
more  in  a later  portion  of  this  article.  Hymns  for  Prot- 
estants, being  “ composed  for  congregational  use,  must 
express  all  the  varieties  of  emotion  common  to  the 
Christian.  They  must  include  in  their  wide  range  the 
trembling  of  the  sinner,  the  hope  and  joy  of  the  believer ; 
they  must  sound  the  alarm  to  the  impenitent,  and  cheer 
the  afflicted ; they  must  summon  the  Church  to  an  ear- 
nest following  of  her  Redeemer,  go  down  with  the  dying 
to  the  vale  of  death,  and  make  it  vocal  with  the  notes  of 
triumph ; they  must  attend  the  Christian  in  every  step  of 
his  life  as  a heavenly  melody.  There  can  be  nothing 
esoteric  in  the  hymn.  Besides  this,  the  hymn,  skilfully 
linked  with  music,  becomes  the  companion  of  a Chris- 
tian’s solitary  hours.  It  is  the  property  of  a good  lyric 
to  exist  in  the  mind  as  a spiritual  presence ; and  thus, 
as  a ‘ hidden  soul  of  harmony,’  it  dwells,  a soul  in  the 
soul,  and  rises,  often  unsought,  into  distinct  conscious- 
ness. The  worldly  Gdthe  advised,  as  a means  of  mak- 
ing life  less  commonplace,  that  one  should  * every  day, 
at  least,  hear  a little  song  or  read  a good  poem.’  Hap- 
pier he  who,  from  his  abundant  acquaintance  with 
Christian  lyrics,  has  the  song  within  him ; who  can  fol- 
low the  purer  coimsel  of  Paul,  and  ‘ speak  to  himself  in 
hymns  and  spiritual  songs,  singing  and  making  melody 
in  his  heart  to  the  Lord’  (Eph.  v,  19)”  ( Methodist  Quar- 
terly, July,  1849).  For  the  vocal  execution  of  hymns 
as  a part  of  Church  service,  see  Singing  ; and  for  their 
instrumental  accompaniments,  see  Music. 

On  the  question  of  the  use  of  hymns  of  human  com- 
position in  the  Church,  there  were  disputes  at  a very 
early  period.  The  Council  of  Braga  (Portugal),  A.D. 
063,  forbade  the  use  of  any  form  of  song  except  psalms 
and  passages  of  Scripture  (Canon  xii).  On  this  subject, 
Bingham  remarks  that  it  was  in  ancient  times  “ no  ob- 
jection against  the  psalmody  of  the  Church  that  she 
sometimes  made  use  of  psalms  and  hymns  of  human 
composition,  besides  those  of  the  sacred  and  inspired 
writers.  For  though  St.  Austin  reflects  upon  the  Dona- 
tists for  their  psalms  of  human  composition,  yet  it  was 
not  merely  because  they  were  human,  hut  because  they 
preferred  them  to  the  divine  hymns  of  Scripture,  and 
their  indecent  way  of  chanting  them,  to  the  grave  and 
sober  method  of  the  Church.  St.  Austin  himself  made 
a psalm  of  many  parts, in  imitation  of  the  119th  Psalm; 
and  this  he  did  for  the  use  of  his  people,  to  preserve 
them  from  the  errors  of  Donat  us.  It  would  be  absurd 
to  think  that  he  who  made  a psalm  himself  for  the 


people  to  sing  should  quarrel  with  other  psalms  merely 
because  they  were  of  human  composition.  It  has  been 
demonstrated  that  there  always  were  such  psalms,  and 
hymns,  and  doxologies  composed  by  pious  men,  and  used 
in  the  Church  from  the  first  foundation  of  it ; nor  did 
any  but  Paulus  Samosatensis  take  exception  to  the 
use  of  them ; and  he  did  so  not  because  they  were  of 
human  composition,  but  because  they  contained  a doc- 
trine contrary  to  his  own  private  opinions.  St.  Hilary 
and  St.  Ambrose  made  many  such  hymns,  which,  when 
some  muttered  against  in  the  Spanish  churches  because 
they  were  of  human  composition,  the  fourth  Council  of 
Toledo  made  a decree  to  confirm  the  use  of  them,  togeth- 
er with  the  doxologies  ‘Glory  be  to  the  Father,’  etc., 
‘Glory  be  to  God  on  high,’  threatening  excommunica- 
tion to  any  that  should  reject  them.  The  only  thing 
of  weight  to  be  urged  against  all  this  is  a canon  of  the 
Council  of  Laodicea,  which  forbids  all  ihonacovg  \pa\- 
fiovg,  all  private  psalms,  and  all  uncanonical  books  to  be 
read  in  the  Church.  For  it  might  seem  that  by  pri- 
vate psalms  they  mean  all  hymns  of  human  composi- 
tion. But  it  was  intended  rather  to  exelude  apocryphal 
hymns,  such  as  went  under  the  name  of  Solomon,  as  Ilal- 
zamon  and  Zonaras  understand  it,  or  else  such  as  were 
not  approved  by  public  authority  in  the  Church.  If  it 
be  extended  further,  it  contradicts  the  current  practice 
of  the  whole  Church  besides,  and  cannot,  in  reason,  be 
construed  as  any  more  than  a private  order  for  the 
churches  of  that  province,  made  upon  some  particular 
reasons  unknown  to  us  at  this  day.  Notwithstanding, 
therefore,  any  argument  to  be  drawn  from  this  canon,  it 
is  evident  the  ancients  made  no  scruple  of  using  psalms 
or  hymns  of  human  composition,  provided  they  were 
pious  and  orthodox  for  the  substance,  and  composed  by 
men  of  eminence,  and  received  by  just  authority,  and 
not  brought  in  clandestinely  into  the  Church”  ( Orig . 
Eccles.  bk.  xiv,  ch.  i). 

The  Christian  Church,  in  all  periods,  has  been  accus- 
tomed, as  we  have  already  stated,  to  use  ])salms  and 
hymns  in  public  worship.  The  psalms  are  portions  of 
the  Psalms  of  David;  the  hymns  are  human  composi- 
tions. On  the  history  bf  singing  in  worship  generally, 
see  Psalmody,  under  which  head  will  also  be  given  an 
account  of  the  standard  hymn-books  in  the  several  evan- 
gelical denominations. 

I.  Ancient  Hymns. — A few  hymns  have  come  down  to 
us  from  very  remote  antiquity.  “ Basil  cites  an  even- 
ing hymn  from  an  unknown  author,  which  he  describes 
as  in  his  time  (4tli  century)  very  ancient,  handed  down 
from  the  fathers,  and  in  use  among  the  people.  Dr.  J. 
Pyc  Smith  considers  it  the  oldest  hymn  extant.  The 
following  is  his  translation  of  it:  “Jesus  Christ,  Joyful 
light  of  the  holy ! Glory  of  the  Eternal,  heavenly,  holy, 
blessed  Father ! Having  now  come  to  the  setting  of  the 
sun,  beholding  the  evening  light,  we  praise  the  Father, 
and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  cf  God.  Thou  art 
worthy  to  be  praised  of  sacred  voices,  at  all  seasons,  O 
Son  of  God,  who  givest  life.  Wherefore  the  universe 
glorifieth  thee !”  (Coleman,  A ncient  Christianity,  ch.  xvi, 
§ 5).  From  the  letter  of  the  elder  Pliny  to  Trajan  we 
know  that  as  early  as  the  beginning  of  the  2d  century 
the  Christians  praised  Christ  as  their  God  in  songs;  and 
from  Eusebius  {Eccles.  Ilist.  v,  28)  we  learn  that  there 
existed  a whole  multitude  of  such  songs.  But  the  old- 
est hymn  to  Christ,  remaining  to  us  complete  from  the 
period  of  persecution,  is  that  of  Clemens  Alexamlrinus 
(q.  v.).  It  is  given  in  full,  Greek  and  Latin,  in  Cole- 
man (l.  c.) : see  also  Piper,  dementis  Ilymnvs  in  Salvato- 
rem  (Gotting.  1835),  and  Bull,  Defensio  jidei  Nicamce,  § 
111,  ch.ii,  cited  by  Coleman.  “Though  regarded  as  a 
poetical  production,  it  has  little  claim  to  consideration; 
it  shows  the  strain  of  the  devotion  of  the  early  Chris- 
tians: we  see  in  it  the  heart  of  primitive  piety  labor- 
ing to  give  utterance  to  its  emotions  of  wonder,  love, 
and  gratitude,  in  view  of  the  offices  and  character  of 
the  Redeemer.  It  is  not  found  in  the  later  offices  of  the 
Church,  because,  as  is  supposed,  it  was  thought  to  re- 


HYMNOLOGY 


435 


HYMXOLOGY 


semble,  in  its  measure  anil  antiphonal  structure,  the 
songs  used  in  pagan  worship”  (Coleman,  Prim.  Church,  p. 
870).  The  oldest  Christian  hymn -writers,  however, 
were  mostly  Gnostics  in  their  doctrines,  and  they  seem 
to  have  used  their  songs  as  “ a popular  means  of  com- 
mending and  propagating  their  errors.”  The  first  of 
these  was  Bardesanes,  in  the  Syrian  Church  of  the  2d 
century,  who  wrote  in  imitation  of  the  Psalms  150  hymns, 
with  Gnostic  additions.  Valentinus  of  Alexandria  be- 
longs also  to  the  oldest  hymn-writers  (comp.  Miinter, 
Oder  Gnosticce,  Copen h.  1712).  The  Gloria  in  Kxcelsis  (q. 
v.),  which  is  still  retained  in  use,  is  ascribed  to  the  third 
century^.  See  Angelical  IIymx. 

1.  Oriental  and  Greek.  — The  Therapeutai  in  Egypt 
sang  in  their  assemblies  old  hymns  transmitted  by  tra- 
dition. When,  under  Constantine  the  Great,  Christi- 
anity became  the  religion  of  the  state,  the  hymns  ac- 
quired the  importance  of  regular  liturgical  Church  songs. 
Ephraem  Syrus  (q.  v.),  in  the  4th  century,  who  may  be 
considered  as  the  representative  of  the  whole  Syrian 
hymnologv,  sought  to  bring  the  heretical  hymns  of  the 
Gnostics  into  disuse.  In  the  Eastern  Church  the  hymns 
of  Arius  had,  by  their  practical  Christian  spirit,  acquired 
more  popularity  than  the  orthodox  hymns,  which  con- 
sisted mostly  of  an  assemblage  of  dogmatic  formulas. 
To  oppose  this  tendency,  Gregory  of  Nazianzum  and 
Synesius  composed  a number  of  new  orthodox  hymns, 
but,  not  being  adapted  to  the  comprehension  of  the  peo- 
ple generally,  these  did  not  become  popular,  and  thus 
failed  to  answer  the  purpose  of  the  writers.  Sacred  po- 
etry in  general  began  to  decline  among  the  Greeks ; and 
as  in  the  next  century  the  strife  concerning  the  adoration 
of  Mary  and  the  saints  began,  the  orthodox  hymns  be- 
came mere  songs  of  praise  to  these.  Such  are  the  hymns 
of  Cosmas,  bishop  of  Majumena  (780)  ; Andreas,  bishop 
of  Crete  (660-732) ; Germanus,  patriarch  of  Constantino- 
ple (634-734)  ; John  Damascenusin  the  8th  century,  and 
Theophanes,  metropolitan  of  Nicaea,  and  Josephus,  dea- 
con of  Constantinople,  in  the  9th. 

In  the  history  of  hymnology,  Schaff  distinguishes 
three  periods,  both  in  the  Greek  and  Latin  Church  po- 
etry: (1.)  that  of  formation,  while  it  was  slowly  throw- 
ing off  classical  metres  and  inventing  its  peculiar  style, 
down  to  about  650 ; (2.)  that  of  perfection,  down  to  820 ; 
(3.)  that  of  decline  and  decay,  to  1400,  or  to  the  fall  of 
Constantinople.  “ The  first  period,  beautiful  as  arc  some 
of  the  odes  of  Gregory  Nazianzen  and  Sophronius  of 
Jerusalem,  has  impressed  scarcely  any  traces  on  the 
Greek  office  books.  The  flourishing  period  of  Greek 
poetry  coincides  with  the  period  of  the  image  contro- 
versies, and  the  most  eminent  poets  were  at  the  same 
time  advocates  of  images;  pre-eminent  among  them 
being  John  of  Damascus,  who  has  the  double  honor 
of  being  the  greatest  theologian  and  the  greatest  poet 
of  the  Greek  Church.  The  flower  of  Greek  poetry 
belongs,  therefore,  to  a later  division  of  our  history. 
Yet,  since  we  find  at  least  the  rise  of  it  in  the  5th  cen- 
tury, wre  shall  give  here  a brief  description  of  its  pecul- 
iar character.  The  earliest  poets  of  the  Greek  Church, 
especially  Gregory  Nazianzen  in  the  4th,  and  Sophro- 
nius of  Jerusalem  in  the  7th  century,  employed  the  clas- 
sical metres,  which  are  entirely  unsuitable  to  Christian 
ideas  and  Church  song,  and  therefore  gradually  fell  out 
of  use.  Rhyme  found  no  entrance  into  the  Greek  Church. 
In  its  stead  the  metrical  or  harmonic  prose  was  adopt- 
ed from  the  Hebrew  poetry  and  the  earliest  Christian 
hymns  of  Mary,  Zacharias.  Simeon,  and  the  angelic  host. 
Anatolius  of  Constantinople  (f  458)  was  the  first  to  re- 
nounce the  tyranny  of  the  classic  metre  and  strike  out  a 
new  path.  The  essential  points  in  the  peeidiar  system 
of  the  Greek  versification  are  the  following : The  first 
stanza,  which  forms  the  model  of  the  succeeding  ones, 
is  called  in  technical  language  Jlirnios,  because  it  draws 
the  others  after  it.  The  succeeding  stanzas  are  called 
Troparia  (stanzas),  and  are  divided,  for  chanting,  by 
commas,  without  regard  to  the  sense.  A number  of 
troparia,  from  three  to  twenty  or  more,  form  an  Ode, 


and  this  corresponds  to  the  Latin  Sequence,  which  was 
introduced  about  the  same  time  by  the  monk  Notker  in 
St.  Gall.  Eaeli  ode  is  founded  on  a hirmos,  and  ends 
with  a troparion  in  praise  of  the  holy  Virgin.  The 
odes  are  commonly  arranged  (probably  after  the  exam- 
ple of  such  Psalms  as  the  25tli,  112th,  and  119th)  in 
acrostic,  sometimes  in  alphabetic. order.  Nine  odes  form 
a Canon.  The  older  odes  on  the  great  events  of  the  in- 
carnation, the  resurrection,  and  the  ascension,  are  some- 
times sublime;  but  the  later  long  canons,  in  glorification 
of  unknown  martyrs,  are  extremely  prosaic  and  tedious, 
and  full  of  elements  foreign  to  the  Gospel.  Even  the  best 
liymnological  productions  of  the  East  lack  the  health- 
fid  simplicity,  naturalness,  fervor,  and  depth  of  the  Latin 
and  of  the  evangelical  Protestant  hymn. 

“The  Greek  Church  poetry  is  contained  in  the  liturg- 
ical books,  especially  in  the  twelve  volumes  of  the  Meniea, 
which  correspond  to  the  Latin  Breviary',  and  consist,  for 
the  most  part,  of  poetic  or  half  poetic  odes  in  rhythmic 
prose.  These  treasures,  on  which  nine  centimes  have 
wrought,  have  hitherto  been  almost  exclusively  confined 
to  the  Oriental  Church,  and,  in  fact,  yield  but  few  grains 
of  gold  for  general  use.  Neale  has  latterly  made  a hap- 
py effort  to  reproduce  and  make  accessible  in  modern 
English  metres,  with  very  considerable  abridgments,  the 
most  valuable  hymns  of  the  Greek  Church.  We  give  a 
few  specimens  of  Neale’s  translations  of  hymns  of  St.  An- 
atolius, patriarch  of  Constantinople,  who  attended  the 
Council  of  Chalcedon  (451).  The  first  is  a Christmas 
hymn,  commencing  in  Greek : Msya  mi  irapddo%ov 
Savpa. 

* A great  and  mighty  wonder, 

The  festal  makes  seeure : 

The  Virgin  bears  the  Infant 
With  Virgiu-honor  pure. 

The  Word  is  made  incarnate, 

And  yet  remains  on  high  : 

And  cherubim  sing  anthems 
To  shepherds  from  the  sky. 

And  we  with  them  triumphant 
Repeat  the  hymn  again : 

“ To  God  on  high  be  glory, 

And  peace  on  earth  to  men !” 

While  thus  they  sing  yonr  Monarch, 

Those  bright  angelic  bands. 

Rejoice,  ye  vales  and  mountains ! 

Ye  oeeans,  clap  your  hands! 

Since  all  He  comes  to  ransom, 

By  all  be  He  adored, 

The"  Infant  born  in  Bethlehem, 

The  Saviour  and  the  Lord  ! 

Now  idol  forms  shall  perish, 

All  error  shall  decay, 

And  Christ  shall  wield  His  sceptre, 

Our  Lord  and  God  for  aye.’ 


Another  specimen  of  a Christmas  hymn  by  the  same, 
commencing  tv  BifiXttp : 

‘ In  Bethlehem  is  He  born  ! 

Maker  of  all  things,  everlasting  God ! 

He  opens  Eden’s  gate, 

Monarch  of  ages ! Thence  the  fiery  sword 
Gives  glorious  passage ; thence, 

The  severing  mid-wall  overthrown,  the  powers 
Of  earth  and  Heaven  are  one  ; 

Angels  and  men  renew  their  ancient  league, 

The  pnre  rejoin  the  pure, 

In  happy  union  ! Now  the  Virgin-womb 
Like  some  cliernbic  throne 
Containeth  Him,  the  Uncontainable: 

Bears  Him,  whom  while  they  bear 
The  seraphs  tremble  ! bears  Him,  as  He  comes 
To  shower  upon  the  world 
The  fulness  of  His  everlasting  love !’ 


One  more  on  Christ  calming  the  storm,  £o <j>epag  Tpacv* 
piag,  as  reproduced  by  Neale : 


‘Fierce  was  the  wild  billow, 
Dark  was  the  night ; 
Oars  labor’d  heavily ; 

Foam  glimmer’d  white ; 
Mariners  trembled ; 

Peril  was  nigh ; 

Then  said  the  God  of  God, 
“ Peace ! It  is  I.” 


Ridge  of  the  mountain-wave, 
Lower  thy  crest ! 


HYMNOLOGY 


436 


IIYMXOLOGY 

Wail  of  Enroclydon, 

Be  thou  at  re:?t ! 

Peril  can  none  he — 

Sorrow  must  fly — 

Where  saith  the  Light  of  light, 

“Peace!  It  is  I.” 

Jesu,  Deliverer ! 

Come  Thou  to  me  r 
Soothe  Thou  my  voyaging 
Over  life's  sea ! 

Thou,  when  the  storm  of  death 
Roars  sweeping  by, 

Whisper,  0 Truth  of  truth  1 
“Peace!  It  is  I.’”” 

2.  Latin  Church.  — Of  far  more  importance  to  the 
Christian  Church  than  the  Greek  are  the  Latin  hymns 
produced  in  the  earlier  ages,  or  the  period  covering  the 
4tli  to  the  16th  centuries.  Though  smaller  in  compass, 
Latin  hymnology  far  surpasses  the  Greek  “in  artless 
simplicity  and  truth,  and  in  richness,  vigor,  and  fulness 
of  thought,  and  is  much  more  akin  to  the  Protestant 
spirit.  With  objective  churchly  character  it  combines 
deeper  feeling  and  more  subjective  appropriation  and 
experience  of  salvation,  and  hence  more  warmth  and 
fervor  than  the  Greek.  It  forms  in  these  respects  the 
transition  to  the  evangelical  hymn,  which  gives  the 
most  beautiful  and  profound  expression  to  the  personal 
enjoyment  of  the  Saviour  and  his  redeeming  grace. 
The  best  Latin  hymns  have  come  through  the  Roman 
Breviary  into  general  use,  and  through  translations  and 
reproductions  have  become  naturalized  in  Protestant 
churches.  They  treat,  for  the  most  part,  of  the  great 
facts  of  salvation  and  the  fundamental  doctrines  of 
Christianity”  (Schaff,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  585).  But  many  of 
them,  like  the  later  productions  of  the  Greek  Church, 
are  devoted  to  the  praises  of  Mary  and  the  martyrs,  and 
are  vitiated  with  all  manner  of  superstitions.  One  of 
the  oldest  writers  of  Latin  hymns  is  Hilary  of  Poitiers 
(Pictaviensis),  who  died  in  368.  Banished  to  Phrygia, 
he  was  incited  by  hearing  the  singing  of  Arian  hymns 
to  compose  some  for  the  orthodox  Church,  and  among 
these  productions  his  Lucis  largitor  splendide  is  the 
most  celebrated.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  author- 
ship of  a great  many  hymns  is  spurious,  especially  in 
the  case  of  Ambrose  (q.  v.),  bishop  of  Milan,  who  died 
in  397,  and  who  is  generally  considered  the  proper  fa- 
ther of  Latin  Church  song.  Among  his  genuine  pro- 
ductions we  find  the  grand  hymns  0 lux  beata  trinitus ; 
Veni  redemptor  gentium ; Deus  creator  omnium,  etc. 
The  so-called  Ambrosian  song  of  praise,  Te  deum  lau- 
damus,  “by  far  the  most  celebrated  hymn,”  formerly 
ascribed  to  Ambrose,  “which  alone  would  have  made 
his  name  immortal,”  and  which,  with  the  Gloria  in  ex- 
celsis,  is  “ by  far  the  most  valuable  legacy  of  the  old 
Catholic  Church  poetry,  and  which  will  be  prayed  and 
sung  with  devotion  in  all  parts  of  Christendom  to  the 
end  of  time,”  he  is  said  ro  have  composed  for  the  bap- 
tism of  Augustine.  But  it  is  now  agreed  by  our  best 
critics  that  this  hymn  was  written  at  a later  date 
(Schaff,  Ch.  Hist.  ii.  592).  Another  distinguished  hynm- 
writer  of  the  Middle  Age  was  Augustine,  “the  greatest 
theologian  among  the  Church  fathers  (f  430),  whose 
soul  was  filled  with  the  genuine  essence  of  poetry.” 
lie  is  said  to  have  composed  the  resurrection  hymn, 
Cum  rex  glorias  Christus ; the  hymn  on  the  glory  of 
Paradise,  Ad  perennis  vitas  fontem  Mens  sitivit  arida , 
and  others.  Damascus,  bishop  of  Rome  (f  384),  who 
is  said  to  have  been  the  author  of  the  rhyme  of  which 
we  spoke  above,  is  perhaps  not  less  celebrated  than  the 
preceding  names.  Very  prominently  rank  also  Prudcn- 
tius,  in  Spain  (f  405),  whom  Neale  calls  “ the  prince  of 
primitive  Christian  poets,”  the  author  of  Jam  maesta 
quiesce  querela,  and  others;  Paulinas  of  Kola;  Sedulius, 
who  composed  two  Christmas  hymns,  A soils  ortus  car- 
dine  and  J/ostis  Ilerodes  impie ; Enodius,  bishop  of  Pa- 
via (f  521)  ; and  Fortunatus,  bishop  of  Poitiers  (about 
600),  who  wrote  the  passion  hymns,  Pange  lingua  glori- 
osi Prcelium  certaminis  and  1 'ear ilia  regis prodeunt.  These 
hymns  (the  text  and  translations  of  most  of  which  are 
given  by  Schaff,  l.  c.)  soon  became  popular,  and  though 


many  of  them,  long  in  use  in  the  Church,  were  not  to 
be  set  aside,  still  the  Council  of  Toledo  (633)  recom- 
mended the  use  only  of  such  hymns  as  those  of  Hilary, 
Ambrose,  etc.,  in  public  worship.  Gregory  the  Great, 
who  introduced  a new  system  of  singing  into  the  Church 
[see  Gregorian  Chant],  also  composed  hymns,  among 
others  the  Rex  Christe  factor  om?iium ; Primo  dierum  om- 
nium , generally  regarded  as  his  best,  etc.  After  him  the 
most  noteworthy  hymn-writers  are  Isidorus,  bishop  of 
Sevilla;  Eugenius,  Ildefonsus,  and  Jidianus,  bishops  of 
Toledo;  and  Beda  Venerabilis.  Charlemagne  (8th  cen- 
tury), who  introduced  the  Gregorian  chant  into  France 
and  Germany,  also  attempted  sacred  poetry,  and  is  said 
to  be  the  author  of  the  Pentecost  hymn,  Veni  creator 
spiritus,  though  others  ascribe  it,  and  perhaps  on  better 
grounds,  to  Rhabanus  Maurus.  Alcuin  and  Paulus  Di- 
aconus  also  composed  hymns.  Although  Christianity, 
during  that  century  and  the  next,  spread  through 
France,  Germany,  and  northwards,  yet  Latin  hymns  re- 
mained in  exclusive  use  during  the  whole  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  as  the  clergy  alone  took  an  active  part  in  divine 
worship.  In  the  9th  century  appeared  some  notewor- 
thy liymn-writers.  Theodulf,  bishop  of  Orleans,  whose 
Gloria  lavs  et  honor  tibi  was  always  sung  on  Palm  Sun- 
day; Rhabanus  Maurus;  V'alafrid  Strabo,  the  first  Ger- 
man hymn-writer;  Notker  (f  912),  who  introduced  the 
use  of  sequences  and  recitatives  in  the  hymns,  and  com- 
posed the  renowned  alternate  cbantrJ/«/iVt  vita  in  morte 
sumus.  During  the  10th  and  11th  centuries  sacred  po- 
etry was  cultivated  by  the  Benedictines  of  Constance, 
among  whom  Hermann  of  Veringen  (f  1054)  was  espe- 
cially distinguished.  King  Robert  of  France  wrote  the 
Pentecost  hymn,  1 reni  sancte  spiritus ; Petrus  Damiani 
wrote  also  penitential  hymns.  To  the  11th  century  be- 
longs the  alternate  hymn  to  Mary  entitled  Salve  Regi- 
na mater  miser icordiee.  In  the  12th  century  hymn- 
writing flourished,  particularly  in  France,  where  we 
notice  Marbord  (1123);  Hihlebcrt  of  Tours;  Petrus 
Venerabilis  ; Adam  of  St.  Victor ; Beniard  of  Clair- 
vaux,  author  of  the  Salve  ad  faciem  Jesu,  and  the  hymn 
beginning  Salve  caput  ament  at  um  ; Abelard,  writer  of 
the  Annunciation  hymn,  M it  fit  ad  rirginem ; and  Bernard 
of  Cluny,  author  of  “ The  Celestial  Country,”  about  A.D. 
1145.  It  was,  moreover,  a practice  of  conventual  dis- 
cipline to  connect  hymns  with  all  the  various  offices  of 
daily  life : thus  there  were  hymns  to  be  sung  before  and 
after  the  meals,  on  the  lighting  of  lamps  for  the  night, 
on  fasts,  etc.  In  the  13tli  century  the  sentimentalism 
of  the  Franciscans  became  a rich  source  of  poetry,  and 
the  Latin  hymns  perhaps  attained  their  highest  perfec- 
tion under  writers  of  that  order.  Francis  of  Assisi  him- 
self wrote  sacred  poetry.  Among  the  Franciscan  liymn- 
writers  are  especially  to  be  noticed  Thomas  of  Celano 
(after  1255),  author  of  the  grand  Judgment  hymn,  Dies 
tree  dies  ilia  [sec  Dies  Iige]  ; Bonaventura;  Jacopo- 
nus,  who  wrote  the  Stabat  mater  dolorosa  and  Stabat 
mater  speciosa.  See  Stahat  Mater.  Among  the  Do- 
minicans, Thomas  Aquinas  distinguished  himself  by  his 
Pange  lingua  gloriosi  and  Lauda  Sion  Salvatorem.  Af- 
ter attaining  this  eminence  Latin  hymns  retrograded 
again  during  the  14th  and  15th  centuries,  and  became 
mere  rhymed  pieces.  The  mystics  Henry  Suso  (q.  v.) 
and  Thomas  a Kempis  (q.  v.)  alone  deserve  mention 
among  tlie  writers  of  good  hymns. 

On  hymns  of  the  Ancient  and  Middle  Ages,  see  Bing- 
ham, Grig.  Eccles.  bk.  xiii,  chap,  v,  and  bk.  xiv,  chap,  i; 
Daniel,  These  turns  Hgnmologicus , sive  hymnorum,  etc., 
collectio  ennplissima  (Leipz.  1841-56, 5 vols.8vo)  ; a good 
selection  in  Kdnigsfeld,  Lat.  Ugnmen  und  Gesiinge,  in 
which  the  Latin  and  German  versions  are  printed  face 
to  face,  with  an  Introd.  and  notes  by  AAV.  von  Sclilegel 
(Bonn,  1847,  12mo,  and  second  collection  1865,  12mo); 
Trench,  Sacred  Latin  Poetry,  chief  y Lyrical,  with  Motes, 
etc.  (2d  ed.  Lond.  1864,  18mo) ; Coleman,  Apostolic  and 
Primitive  Church,  ch.  xii ; Coleman,  Ancient  Christian- 
ity, ch.  xvi;  Walcli,  De  Hynmis  Eccles.  Apostolicee  (Je- 
na, 1837);  Rambach,  Anthologie  Christl.  Gesdnge  (Alto- 


IIYMNOLOGY  437  IIYMNOLOGY 


na,  1817-33)  ; Bjorn,  Jhjnmi  Vet.  Pat  rum  Christ.  Kccles. 
(Ilafn.  1818);  Kelircin,  Lateinische  Anthologie  (Frankf. 
1840) ; (Ultramontane)  Mone,  Lot.  llymnen  des  Alittel- 
alters  (Freib.  1853  sq.,  3 vols.  8vo) ; Moll,  Jlymnarium 
(Halle,  1861, 18mo) ; Wackernagel,  Das  deutsche  Kirch- 
enleid  (Lpz.  1864-65,  2 vols.),  part  of  vol.  i,  p.  9-362; 
Chandler,  Hymns  of  the  Primitive  Church  (Loud.  1837)  ; 
Neale,  Hymns  of  the  Eastern  Church  (3d  edit.  London, 

1866)  ; Mediaral  Hymns  and  Sequences  (3d  ed.  London, 

1867)  ; The  Voice  of  Christian  Life  in  Sony,  or  Hymns 
and  Hymn  Writers  of  many  Lands  and  Ayes  (N.Y.  1864, 
12mo);  Miller,  Our  Hymns,  their  Authors  and  Origin 
(Lond.  1866,  l’2mo);  Koch,  Gesch.  d.  Kirchenl.  (2d  edit. 
Stuttgart,  1852  sq.,  4 vols.,  especially,  i,  10-30) ; Kdiles- 
tantl  du  Meril , Poesies  populai res  Latines  anterieures  an 
douzieme  siecle  (I’aris,  1843) ; Fortlage,  Gesdnye  Christl. 
Vorzeit  (Berlin,  1844) ; Milman,  Latin  Christianity,  viii, 
302  sq. ; llill,  English  Monasticism,  p.  324-373  (on  me- 
diaeval books  and  hymns) ; Rheimvakl,  Kirchl.  A rchdol. 
p.  262  sq. ; Augusti,  Handb.  der  christl.  A rchdol.  ii,  106 
sq. ; Riddle,  Christian  Antiquities,  p.  384  sq. ; Martignv, 
Diet,  des  A ntiquites,  p.  475  sq. ; Christ.  Examiner,  xxviii, 
art.  i ; Christian  Remembrancer,  xliv,  art.  iv;  X.  Amer. 
Rev.  1857,  art.  iv;  and  on  the  lirst  six  centuries  a very 
excellent  article,  first  published  in  the  British  and  For- 
eign Ev.  Rev.  (Oct.  1866),  in  Schaff,  Ch.  Hist,  iii,  575  sq. 

II.  Modem  Hymnoyraphy. — 1.  German. — The  origin 
of  German  hymns,  which  are  without  question  the  rich- 
est of  any  in  modern  tongues,  may  be  traced  to  the  9th 
century.  But  the  history  of  German  hymnologv,  strict- 
ly speaking,  does  not  begin  earlier  than  the  Reforma- 
tion. For  “it  was  not  until  the  people  possessed  the 
Word  of  God,  and  liberty  to  worship  him  in  their  own 
language,  that  such  a body  of  songs  could  be  created, 
though  vernacular  hymns  and  sacred  lyrics  had  existed 
in  Germany  throughout  the  Middle  Ages.  It  was  then 
that  a great  outburst  of  national  poetry  and  music  took 
place  which  reflected  the  spirit  of  those  times;  and  on 
a somewhat  smaller  scale  the  same  thing  has  happened 
both  before  and  since  that  time,  at  every  great  crisis  in 
the  history  of  the  German  people.”  The  most  marked 
of  these  periods  are,  besides  the  Reformation,  the  12th 
and  13th  centuries,  or  the  Crusading  period,  and  the 
latter  part  of  the  17th,  and  18th  centuries.  The  earliest 
attempts  at  German  hymns  are  traced  to  the  9th  cen-  j 
tnry.  For  some  centuries  preceding  the  Roman  Church 
had  abandoned  congregational  singing,  and  the  hymns 
formed  part  of  the  liturgical  service  performed  by  the  I 
priests  and  the  canonical  singers.  In  some  churches, 
however,  the  people  still  continued  “ the  old  practice  of 
uttering  the  response  Kyrie  Eleison,  Christe  Efeison,  at 
certain  intervals  during  the  singing  of  the  Latin  hymns 
and  psalms,  which  finally  degenerated  into  a confused 
clamor  of  voices.  The  first  attempt  to  remedy  this  was 
made  by  adding,  soon  after  Notker,  who  originated  the 
Latin  Sequence  or  Prose,  a few  German  rhymes  to  the 
Kyrie  Eleison,  “ from  the  last  syllables  of  which  these 
earliest  German  hymns  were  called  Leisen."  But  as 
they  were  never  used  in  Mass  service,  but  were  confined 
to  popular  festivals,  pilgrimages,  and  the  like,  they  did 
not  come  into  general  use,  and  it  may  be  said  that  the 
real  employment  of  Leisen  (or  Leiche,  as  they  were  also 
called)  did  not  begin  before  the  12th  century.  At  that 
time  they  had  become  the  common  property  of  the  Ger- 
man people,  and  hymns  in  the  vernacular  were  freely 
produced,  among  them  the  oldest  German  Easter  hymn, 
Christus  ist  uferstanikn,  attributed  to  Sperrvogcl,  which 
has  descended  to  our  own  day  as  a verse  of  one  of  Lu- 
ther’s best  hymns : 

Christ  the  Lord  is  risen, 

Out  of  death’s  dark  prison ; 

Let  us  all  rejoice  to-day, 

Christ  shall  be  our  hope  and  stay: 

Kyrie  eleison. 

Alleluia,  Alleluia,  Alleluia ! 

Several  of  the  great  Latin  hymns  were  also  trans- 
lated into  German,  and  although  their  use  in  the  Church 
was  more  or  less  restricted,  and  was  always  regarded 


with  suspicion  by  the  more  papal  of  the  clergy,  yet 
they  continued  to  be  favored  by  the  people,  as  is  fully 
evinced  by  the  quantity  of  sacred  verse  written  from 
this  time  onwards.  Thus  Wackernagel,  in  his  work  on 
religious  poetry,  prior  to  the  Reformation  ( Das  deutsche 
Kirchenlied  v.  d.  ditest.  Zeit  bis  zu  Anfang  d.  \7ten  Jahr - 
hundert),  exhibits  nearly  1500  specimens,  and  the  names 
of  no  less  than  85  different  poets,  with  many  anonymous 
authors.  Among  the  writers  named  we  find  not  a few 
of  the  celebrated  knightly  minne-singers,  as  Hartmann 
von  der  Aue,  Wolfram  von  Eschenbach,  Walther  von  der 
Yogelweidc,  and  others.  But  the  German  sacred  songs 
of  this  time,  like  the  old  Latin  hymns,  were  confined  to 
addressing  the  saints,  and,  above  all,  the  Virgin  Mary. 
“ The  former  class  is  not  very  important,  either  as  to 
number  or  to  quality;  but  the  Marien-IAeder,  and,  in  a 
minor  degree,  Anuen-IJeder  (hymns  to  Mary  and  to 
Anne),  constitute  a very  large  and  well-known  class 
among  the  poems  of  the  ante-Beformation  times  in  Ger- 
many. . . . They  form  a sort  of  spiritual  counterpr.rt 
to  the  minne-songs  or  love-songs  addressed  to  his  earth- 
ly lady  by  the  knight.  It  was  easy  to  transfer  the  turn 
of  expression  and  tone  of  thought  from  the  earthly  ob- 
ject to  the  heavenly  one,  and  the  degree  to  which  this 
is  done  is  to  us  very  often  startling.  . . . The  honors 
and  titles  belonging  to  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  are  attrib- 
uted to  his  mother;  God  is  said  to  have  created  the 
world  by  her,  and  to  have  rested  in  her  on  the  seventh 
day;  she  is  said  to  have  risen  from  the  grave  on  the 
third  day,  and  ascended  into  heaven ; she  is  addressed 
not  only  as  a persuasive  mediator  with  her  Son,  but  as 
herself  the  chief  source  of  mercy  and  help,  especially  in 
the  hour  of  death  and  at  the  day  of  judgment.  By  de- 
grees, her  mother  is  invested  with  some  of  her  own  at- 
tributes ; for  it  is  said,  if  Christ  woidd  obey  his  own  moth- 
er, ought  not  she  much  more  to  obey  hers  ? So  a set 
of  hymns  to  Anne  sprang  up,  in  which  she  is  entreated 
to  afford  aid  in  death,  and  obtain  pardon  for  the  sinners 
from  Christ  and  Mary,  who  will  refuse  her  nothing” 
(Winlcwortli,  Christian  Singers  oj  Germany,  'p.  96,  97). 
See  IIypekdui.ia.  It  is  no  wonder  that  in  the  face  of 
such  extravagances  Wackernagel  is  constrained  to  say 
that  the  existence  of  so  many  godless  hymns  addressed 
to  the  Virgin  and  the  saints,  or  teaching  the  whole  doc- 
trine of  indulgences,  is  an  indisputable  testimony  to  the 
degeneracy  into  which  the  nation  had  fallen,  rendering 
the  Reformation  necessary;  and  that  the  existence  of 
so  many  breathing  an  unstained  Christianity  is  at  the 
same  time  a witness  to  the  preservation  of  so  much  true 
religion  as  made  the  Reformation  at  all  possible.  The 
use  of  German  hymns  was  taken  up  by  the  heretical 
sects  that  began  to  spring  up  under  the  persecuting  in- 
fluence of  Rome.  The  German  Flagellants,  the  Bohe- 
mians, the  Waldenscs,  and  the  Mystics,  who  all  encour- 
aged the  study  of  the  Scriptures,  of  course  favored  the 
singing  of  German  hymns;  and  they  contributed  not  a 
few  sacred  songs  themselves  to  those  already  existing. 
Thus  the  Mystic  Tauler  (q.  v.)  (to  whom  was  long  at- 
tributed the  Theologia  Germania,  in  all  probability  the 
work  of  Nicholas  of  Basle)  wrote  several  hymns,  which 
became  widely  known.  His  best,  perhaps,  are  the  fol- 
lowing : 

WHAT  I MUST  DO. 

“ From  outward  creatures  I must  flee, 

Aud  seek  heart-oneness  deep  within, 

If  I would  draw  my  soul  to  Thee, 

O God,  and  keep  it  pure  from  sin,”  etc. 

ONLY  JESUS. 

“ O Jesn  Christ,  most  good,  most  fair. 

More  fragrant  than  May’s  flowery  air, 

Who  Thee  within  his  soul  doth  bear, 

True  cause  for  joy  hath  won  ! 

But  would  one  have  Thee  in  his  heart, 

From  all  self-will  he  must  depart ; 

God’s  bidding  only  where  thou  art 
Must  evermore  be  done. 

Where  Jesus  thus  doth  truly  dwell, 

His  presence  doth  all  tumults  quell, 

And  transient  cares  of  earth  dispel 
Like  mists  before  the  Bun,”  etc. 


HYMNOLOGY 


438 


HYMNOLOGY 


A marked  improvement,  however,  took  place  in  Ger- 
man hymnologv  during  the  15th  century,  especially 
near  its  close.  ' The  chief  hymn-writer  of  this  period 
was  Henry  of  Laufenberg,  who  was  particularly  active 
in  transforming  secular  into  religious  songs,  as  was  fre- 
quent at  this  time;  he  also  translated  for  the  Germans 
many  of  the  old  Latin  hymns.  One  of  the  best  speci- 
mens of  a religious  song  transformed  we  cite  here.  The 
original  was  “ Innsbruck,  I must  forsake  thee.” 

FAREWELL. 

0 world,  I must  forsake  thee, 

And  far  away  betake  me, 

To  seek  my  native  shore; 

So  long  I’ve  dwelt  in  sadness, 

1 wish  not  now  tor  gladness, 

Earth’s  joys  for  me  are  o’er. 

Sore  is  my  grief  and  lonely, 

And  I can  tell  it  only 
To  Thee,  my  Friend  most  sure  1 
God,  let  Thy  hand  uphold  me, 

Thy  pitying  heart  eufokl  me, 

For  else  I am  most  poor. 

My  refuge  where  I hide  me, 

From  Thee  shall  naught  divide  me, 

No  pain,  no  poverty : 

Naught  is  too  bad  to  fear  it, 

If  Tiion  art  there  to  share  it ; 

My  heart  asks  only  Thee. 

Many  of  these  transformed  hymns  were  preserved,  like 
the  one  above  cited,  through  the  Reformation.  An- 
other very  popular  hymn,  Den  liebsten  puelen  den  ich 
lian  der  ist  in  des  Ilimels  Trone,  was  transformed  from 
the  song  “Den  liebsten  puelen  den  ich  ban  der  liegt 
beim  Wirt  im  Keller.”  Of  the  transformation  of  ballads 
by  the  minnesingers  into  hymns  to  Mary  and  Anne  we 
have  already  spoken.  We  return,  therefore,  to  Laufen- 
berg, and  cite  one  of  his  hymns,  which  well  deserves  to 
be  called  not  only  one  of  the  best  of  his  age,  but  one  of 
the  loveliest  sacred  songs  that  has  ever  been  written. 
We  copy  the  first  stanza  of  it  from  Mrs.  Winkwortli  (p. 
93): 

CRADLE  SONG. 

Ah  Jesn  Christ,  my  Lord  most  dear, 

As  Thou  wast  once  an  infant  here, 

So  give  this  little  child,  I pray, 

Thy  grace  and  blessings  day  by  day: 

Ah  Jesn,  Lord  divine, 

Guard  me  this  babe  of  mine ! 

Laufenberg  also  wrote  and  widely  introduced  the  use 
of  many  hymns  in  mixed  Latin  and  German,  a kind 
of  verse  which  was  the  favorite  amusement  of  the 
monks,  and  which  had  acquired  considerable  popularity 
at  his  time.  The  best  known  of  these  productions  was 
a Christmas  carol,  dating  from  the  14th  century,  In 
dulci  jubilo,  Xu  singet  uml  seid  fro.  Peter  Dresdensis 
was  generally,  but  erroneously,  regarded  as  the  author 
of  these  perhaps  properly  termed  “Mixed  Hymns.” 

“ His  real  work,  however,  lay  in  the  strenuous  efforts  he 
made  to  introduce  hymns  in  the  vernacular  more  freely 
into  public  worship,  especially  into  the  service  of  the 
Mass,”  from  which  they  had,  as  we  have  already  had 
occasion  to  observe,  been  excluded.  But  these  efforts 
met  with  violent  opposition  from  the  Church,  and  the 
use  of  hymns  in  the  vernacular  still  continued  to  be  al- 
most exclusively  confined  to  festivals  and  like  occasions. 
Among  these  vernacular  hymns  are  particularly  cele- 
brated “ Kin  Kindelein  so  lobelich,"  “ Christ  Jure  zu  J 
Jlimmel “ Gott  sti  gelobet  uml  gebenedeist ,”  “117V  dan- 
hen  dir  lieber  IferreJ  etc.  After  the  invention  of  the  art 
of  printing,  the  followers  of  lluss,  who  had  formed  them- 
selves into  a separate  and  organized  Church  of  their 
own  in  14G7  (Bohemian  and  Moravian  Brethren),  and 
who  made  it  one  of  their  distinctive  peculiarities  to  use 
hymns  in  the  vernacular,  as  their  service  was  mainly 
conducted  in  their  mother  tongue,  especially  their  pray- 
ers, gave  new  encouragement  to  the  writing  of  German 
hymns.  In  1504,  Lucas,  then  chief  of  the  Bohemians, 
collected  400  of  the  most  popular  of  the  German  hymns 
and  had  them  printed.  This  is  “the  first  example  of  a 
hymn-book  composed  of  original  compositions  in  the  ver- 
nacular to  be  found  in  any  Western  nation  which  had 


onfte  owned  the  supremacy  of  Rome.”  Previous  to  this 
time,  towards  the  close  of  the  15th  century,  there  exist- 
ed two  or  three  collections  of  German  versions  of  the 
Latin  hymns  and  sequences,  but  they  are  of  very  infe- 
rior merit. 

The  Reformation  in  the  16th  century  marks  the  next 
cera  in  the  history  of  German  hvmnology.  The  intro- 
duction of  the  vernacular  into  the  liturgy  of  the  Church 
gave  an  impulse  to  the  German  language  that  was  only 
eclipsed  by  Luther’s  translation  of  the  Bible  for  the  ed- 
ification and  education  of  the  entire  German  people. 
But  it  was  Luther’s  aim  not  only  to  furnish  his  follow- 
ers the  Book  of  books,  but  also  to  introduce  everywhere 
the  singing  of  such  hymns  as  already  existed  in  the 
vernacular,  and  by  the  creation  of  a taste  among  the 
people  for  German  sacred  song  to  promote  its  cultiva- 
tion. Of  this  he  set  himself  the  best  example.  As  in 
the  cause  of  religion  he  knew  how  to  enlist  a large  cir- 
cle of  eminent  men  and  scholars  to  cany  out  his  great 
designs,  so  also,  with  a true  appreciation  of  sacred  art, 
both  in  poetry  and  song,  he  soon  gathered  about  him 
many  friends,  who  became  the  compilers  of  several  col- 
lections of  hymns,  that  were  issued  from  the  press  at 
remarkably  short  intervals.  See  FsAUMonY.  Luther 
himself,  besides  translating  anew  many  of  the  Latin 
hymns,  “ which  he  counted  among  the  good  things  that 
God’s  power  and  wonderful  working  had  kept  alive 
amid  so  much  corruption,”  and,  besides  transforming  or 
reproducing  some  four  of  the  early  German  hvnms, 
composed  some  twenty-one  in  the  vernacular,  most  of 
which  are  known  in  our  own  day  by  most  of  the  Prot- 
estant nations  of  the  globe,  and  some  of  which  are  par- 
ticular favorites  even  with  the  English-speaking  peo- 
ple. The  special  object  of  the  composition  of  these 
hymns,  into  which  Luther  threw  “all  his  own  fervent 
faith  and  deep  devotion,"  was  undoubtedly  “to  give 
the  people  a short,  clear  confession  of  faith,  easy  to  be 
remembered.  For  the  doctrines  which  Luther  propa- 
gated were  yet  too  new  to  be  well  understood  by  all  as 
he  desired  them  to  be.  He  wished  men  to  know  what 
they  professed.  Protestantism  meant  the  profession  of 
a faith  by  choice , and  not  by  compulsion ; a belief  that 
was  cherished  by  the  confessor,  and  not  a blind  follow- 
ing after  the  teacher.  He  required  a comprehension 
of  bis  great  doctrines  of  justification  by  faith,  of  the  one 
Mediator  between  God  and  man,  which  gave  peace  to 
the  conscience  by  delivering  it  from  the  burden  of  the 
past  sins,  and  a new  spring  of  life  to  the  soul  by  show- 
ing men  that  their  dependence  was  not  on  anything  in 
themselves,  on  no  works  of  their  own  performance,  but 
on  the  infinite  love  and  mercy  of  God,  which  he  had 
manifested  to  all  mankind  in  his  Son;  of  his  doctrine 
of  the  universal  priesthood  of  all  believers,  which  put  a 
new  spirit  into  the  Church,  by  vindicating  for  every 
member  of  it  his  right  and  duty  to  offer  for  himself  the 
sacrifice  of  praise  and  prayer,  and  to  study  for  himself 
God’s  word  in  the  Scriptures”  (eomp.Winkworth,  p.  105). 
One  of  Luther’s  hymns  best  known  to  us  is  that  found- 
ed on  the  46th  Psalm,  the  famous  “Marseillaise  of  the 
Reformation,”  as  Heine  called  it.  lie  is  generally  sup- 
posed to  have  written  it  on  his  way  to  the  Diet  of 
Worms.  Some,  however,  think  that  it  was  composed 
at  the  close  of  the  second  Diet  of  Spire  (1529).  It  has 
been  again  and  again  translated.  Mrs.  Winkworth 
gives  us  the  following: 

THE  STRONGHOLD. 

A sure  stronghold  our  God  is  he, 

A trusty  shield  and  weapou ; 

Our  help  he’ll  be,  and  set  us  free, 

Whatever  ill  may  happen. 

That  old  malicious  foe 
Intends  us  deadly  woe ; 

Armed  with  the  strength  of  hell, 

And  deepest  craft  as  well, 

On  earth  is  not  his  fellow. 

Through  our  own  force  we  nothing  can, 

Straight  were  we  lost  forever, 

But  for  us  fights  the  proper  Man, 

By  God  sent  to  deliver. 


IIYMNOLOGY 


439 


HYMXOLOGY 


Ask  ye  who  this  may  be  ? 

Christ  Jesus  uamed  is  he, 

Of  Sabaoth  the  Lord, 

Sole  God  to  be  adored  ; 

’Tis  he  must  win  the  battle. 

And  were  the  world  with  devils  filled, 

All  eager  to  devour  us, 

Our  souls  to  fear  should  little  yield ; 

They  cannot  overpower  us. 

Their  dreaded  prince  no  more 
Can  harm  us  as  of  yore ; 

Look  grim  as  e’er  he  maj', 

Doomed  is  his  ancient  sway, 

A word  can  overthrow  him. 

Still  shall  they  leave  that  world  its  might, 

And  yet  no  thanks  shall  merit; 

Still  is  he  with  us  in  the  fight 
By  his  good  gifts  and  Spirit. 

E’en  should  they  take  our  life, 

Goods,  honor,  children,  wife, 

Though  all  of  these  were  goue, 

Yet  nothing  have  they  wou — 

God’s  kiugdom  ours  abideth ! 

Another  hymn  of  Luther's  which  has  gained  a world- 
wide circulation  is  the  one  that  was  written  by  him  on 
the  burning  of  two  martyrs  for  their  faith  at  Brussels  in 
1523,  and  which  was  translated,  or,  rather,  transformed 
by  D’Aubigne  in  his  History  of  the  Reformation , begin- 
ning, 

“ Flung  to  the  heedless  winds, 

Or  ou  the  waters  cast, 

Their  ashes  shall  be  watched, 

And  gathered  at  the  last,"  etc. 

As  an  example  of  the  songs  he  transformed  most  suc- 
cessfully, we  quote  the  old  ditty, 

“ O thou  naughty  Judas  1 
What  hast  thou  done, 

To  betray  our  Master, 

God’s  only  Son ! 

Therefore  must  thou  suffer 
Hell’s  agony, 

Lucifer’s  companion 
Must  forever  he. 

Kyrie,  Eleison  !” 

This  Luther  changed  to  the  following : 

“ Twas  our  great  transgression 
And  our  sore  misdeed 
Made  the  Lord  our  Saviour 
On  the  cross  to  bleed. 

Not  then  ou  thee,  poor  Judas, 

Nor  ou  that  Jewish  crew. 

Our  vengeance  dare  we  visit — 

We  are  to  blame,  not  you. 

Kyrie , Eleison! 

“ All  hail  to  thee,  Christ  Jesus, 

Who  hungest  on  the  tree, 

Aud  bor’st  for  our  transgressions 
Both  shame  aud  agony. 

Now  beside  thy  Father 
Reignest  thou  on  high  ; 

Blesses  all  our  lifetime, 

Take  us  when  we  die  ! 

Kyrie,  Eleison  !" 

'{Christian  Examiner,  1800,  p.  239  sq.) 

Of  the  friends  whom  Luther  wras  successful  in  enlist- 
ing as  writers  for  his  new  hymn-books  we  have  space 
here  to  mention  only  the  most  prominent  names.  One 
of  them,  Justus  Jonas,  was  a colleague  of  Luther  and 
Melanctlvon  at  the  University  of  Wittenberg.  Ills  spe- 
cial service  wras  the  transformation  of  the  Psalms  into 
metrical  German  versions,  “choosing,  as  one  can  well 
understand,  those  which  speak  of  David’s  sufferings 
from  his  enemies,  and  his  trust  in  God’s  deliverance.” 
One  of  his  best  is  on  the  124th  Psalm,  beginning  thus : 

“ If  God  were  not  upon  onr  side, 

When  foes  arouud  us  rage ; 

Were  not  Himself  onr  Help  and  Guide, 

When  bitter  war  they  wage : 

Were  lie  not  Israel’s  mighty  Shield, 

To  whom  their  utmost  crafts  must  yield. 

We  surely  must  have  perished.” 

Another  of  Luther’s  colaborers  was  Paul  Eber,  whose 
hymns  have  “ a tone  of  tenderness  and  pathos  which  is 
much  less  characteristic  of  this  period  than  the  grave, 
manly  trustfulness  of  Luther  and  Jonas.”  But  they  be- 
came very  extensively  known,  and  during  the  trying 
period  of  the  Thirty-years’  War  they  were  constantly 
heard  both  in  public  and  around  the  family  hearth- 


stone. A special  favorite  at  that  time  was  the  one,  com- 
posed when  the  imperial  armies  were  besieging  Witten- 
berg (1547),  beginning: 

“ When,  iu  the  hour  of  utmost  need, 

We  know  uot  where  to  look  for  aid, 

When  days  and  nights  of  anxious  thought 
Nor  help  nor  comfort  yet  have  brought, 

Then  this  our  comfort  is  alone, 

That  we  may  meet  before  Thy  throne, 

Aud  cry,  O faithful  God,  to  Thee, 

For  rescue  from  our  misery." 

Two  of  Ebcr’s  hymns  for  the  dying  have  been  great  fa- 
vorites by  the  side  of  death-beds  and  at  funerals,  not  only 
among  the  German  Protestants,  but  also  among  the  Ro- 
man Catholics.  The  one  is  Herr  Jesu  Christ,  wahr 
Mensch  und  Gott  (Lord  Jesus  Christ,  true  man  and  God) ; 
the  other  is  the  following  childlike  expression  of  perfect 
trust,  beautifully  rendered  by  Mrs.  Wink  worth  (p.  121) : 
DEATH  IN  THE  LORD. 

“ I fall  asleep  in  Jesu’s  arms, 

Sin  washed  away,  hushed  all  alarms, 

For  his  dear  blood,  his  righteousness, 

My  jewels  are,  my  glorions  dress, 

Wherein  before  my  God  I stand 
When  I shall  reach  the  heavenly  land. 

With  peace  and  joy  I now  depart, 

God’s  child  I am  with  all  my  heart : 

I thank  thee,  Death  ; thou  leadest  me 
To  that  true  life  where  I would  be. 

So  cleaused  by  Christ  I fear  not  Death, 

Lord  Jesu,  strengthen  thou  my  faith  !” 

But  Luther  and  his  associates  were  only  the  founders 
of  the  new  German  hymnology,  which  soon  spread  over 
a much  more  extended  field.  Ilvmn- writers  became 
common  all  over  the  land,  and  their  number  is  legion, 
so  that  it  is  almost  impossible  for  us,  in  our  limited 
space,  to  give  more  than  a brief  account  of  the  most  dis- 
tinguished, and  the  names  only  of  those  of  lesser  note. 
Thus  Nicholas  Decius,  a converted  monk,  produced  a 
translation  of  the  Gloria  in  Excelsis  (“Allein  Gott  in  der 
Hull’,  sei  Ehr.,”  A ll  ylory  he  to  God  on  hiyh),  which, 
with  its  noble  chorale,  soon  came  into  use  all  over  Ger- 
many. Paul  Speratus  (von  Spretten),  the  chaplain  of 
the  duke  of  Prussia,  is  perhaps  the  most  noted  of  all  the 
liymnologists  of  this  period,  and  is  best  known  as  the 
author  of  the  hymn  ou  the  doctrine  of  Justification  by 
faith : 

“ Salvation  hath  come  down  to  us 
Of  freest  grace  and  love, 

Works  cannot  stand  before  God’s  law, 

A broken  reed  they  prove ; 

Faith  looks  to  Jesus  Christ  aloue, 

He  must  for  all  onr  sins  atone, 

He  is  onr  one  Redeemer." 

This,  in  Luther’s  day,  was  as  popular  among  the  Ger- 
mans as  one  of  his  own  hymns.  Indeed,  it  is  said  that 
when  Luther  first  heard  it  sung  by  a beggar  on  the 
roadside  he  gave  him  the  last  coin  he  had.  Princes 
also  became  sacred  poets,  such  as  the  margrave  of  Bran- 
denburg and  Hesse,  known  as  the  author  of 
“ Grant  me,  eternal  God,  such  grace 
That  no  distress 

May  cause  me  e’er  to  flee  from  Thee,”  etc. 

The  elector  John  of  Saxony  was  also,  at  that  time,  count- 
ed among  hvmn-writers,  but  it  now  appears  that  he 
never  wrote  any  hymns  himself,  although  he  was  pas- 
sionately fond  of  them.  Hans  Sachs  (1494-157G),  the 
celebrated  and  popular  poet  of  this  period,  also  wrote 
sacred  verse,  and  figures  not  less  prominently  than  the 
persons  whose  names  we  have  already  mentioned.  The 
most  famous  of  his  hymns  he  wrrote  during  the  siege  of 
Nuremberg,  his  native  city,  in  15G1:  “Why  art  thou 
thus  cast  down,  my  heart?”  ( Wanim  betriihst  du  dick 
mein  Herz  ?).  He  wrote  also  a very  beautiful  hymn  on 
the  explicit  confidence  in  the  saving  merits  of  Christ, 
entitled  “ The  Mediator,”  which  is  translated  by  Mrs. 
Winkwortli  ( Christ . Sing.  p.  134).  Among  the  Bohe- 
mian Brethren,  who.  as  is  well  known,  were  on  intimate 
terms  with  the  Lutherans,  Michael  Weiss  is  distin- 
guished both  as  the  translator  of  Bohemian  hymns  into 
German,  and  as  the  author  of  a number  of  beautiful 
German  hymns.  Two  of  them,  “Once  he  came  iu 


HYMNOLOGY  440  HYMN  OLOGY 


blessing,”  and  the  well-known  “ Christ,  the  Lord,  is  risen 
again”  ( Christus  ist  erstanden  von  des  Todes  Banden) , 
translated  into  English  by  Mrs.  WinkAvorth,  may  be 
found  in  her  Lyra  Germanica,  ii,  62,  and  in  Schaff, 
Christ  in  Sony,  p.  15,  259.  Not  less  worthy  of  notice, 
though  perhaps  not  quite  so  prominent  in  their  day,  are 
Johann  Matthesius  (f  1561)  and  Nicholas  Hermann 
(f  1501).  The  former  wrote,  among  others,  the  beauti- 
ful morning  hymn,  “My  inmost  heart  now  raises”  (.1  us 
meines  Herzen's  Gritnde ),  which  was  a favorite  with 
king  Gustavus  Adolphus.  Hermann’s  hymns  are  to  be 
found  in  nearly  all  German  hymn-books.  Among  his 
best  hymns  are  Lobt  Gott  ihr  Christen  allzuyleich,  and 
1 Venn  mein  Stundlein  vorhanden  ist . Mrs.  Winkworth 
gives  Matthesius’s  “ Miner’s  Song”  (p.  144)  and  Her- 
mann’s “ Hymn  for  the  Dying.” 

In  the  latter  half  of  the  16th,  and  even  at  the  opening 
of  the  17th  century,  a gradual  decline  is  manifest  in  the 
quality  of  the  hymns,  though  the  quantity  continued. 
They  were  now  no  longer  the  spontaneous  production 
of  men  of  all  classes,  moved  to  worship  God  in  songs 
of  praise,  but  the  work  of  professional  hyninologists. 
“Still  this  period,  too,  has  some  very  good  and  fine 
hymns,  but  a marked  change  of  tone  is  perceptible  in 
most  of  them ; they  are  no  longer  filled  with  the  joyful 
welcome  of  a new  day : they  more  often  lament  the  wick- 
edness of  the  age,  and  anticipate  coming  evil  times,  or 
the  end  of  the  world  itself.”  Most  prominent  among 
the  hymn-writers  of  this  period  are  the  following:  (1.) 
Ambrose  Lobwasser,  who  translated  the  French  Psalter 
of  Marot  and  Beza ; but  the  literary  merit  of  the  work  was 
rather  mediocre.  “It  does  not  rise  above  the  level  of  a 
sort  of  rhymed  prose,  and  it  furnished  an  unfortunate 
model  lor  a flood  of  very  prosaie  rhymed  paraphrases 
of  doctrinal  statements  or  passages  of  Scripture,  which 
became  wonderfully  numerous  at  this  time.”  (2.)  Bar- 
tholomaHis  Ringwaldt  (1530-98)  is  the  author  of  the 
hymn,  in  England  erroneously  attributed  to  Luther, 
“ Great  God,  what  do  I see  and  hear,”  which  was  writ- 
ten in  imitation  of  the  u Dies  ir<v,  dies  ilia.”  He  really 
deserves  to  be  placed  first  among  the  hymnologists  of 
this  period.  It  is  incorporated  in  the  New  Conyreya- 
tional  Hymn-hook  (London),  No.  420.  His  hymns  par- 
take of  the  penitential  style,  by  which,  as  above  remark- 
ed, this  period  is  characterized.  One  of  his  best  on 
“Penitence”  Mrs.  Winkworth  has  clothed  in  English 
dress  (p.  149).  (3.)  Nicolaus  Selnecker  (1530-92),  au- 

thor of  Gleich  trie  sein  Bans  der  Voyel  bant,  based  on  the 
84th  Psalm.  (4.)  Louis  Helmboldt,  the  poet  laureate 
of  the  emperor  Maximilian,  who  wrote  “ The  true  Chris- 
tian’s Vade-Mecum”  ( From  God  shall  naught  divide  vie, 
Mrs.  Winkworth,  p.  154),  winch  is  contained  in  all  Ger- 
man hymn-books,  “ and  has  rooted  itself  among  the  peo- 
ple.” To  this  period  belong  also  Martin  Sehalling  (1532- 
1608),  among  whose  hymns  Ilerzlieh  lieb  hob ’ ich  Dick 
o Herr  (“  O Lord,  I love  thee,”  in  Schaff,  Christ  in  Sony , 
p.  G09)  is  best  known  ; Kaspar  Melissander  (“  Herr, 
wie  du  willst,  so  sehiek’s  mit  mir”),  Mart.  M oiler,  Mart. 
Behemb,  Mart.  Kutilius  (“Ach,  Herr  u.  Gott,  wie  gross 
u.  schwer!”),  Job.  Pappus  (“Ich  hab  mein  Sach’  Gott 
lieimgcstellt”),  and  more  especially  Philip  Nicolai  (1556- 
1608),  who  was  the  first  to  reintroduce,  after  the  Refor- 
mation, the  mystical  union  of  Christ  with  the  sold  in 
his  hymns,  whence  they  have  often  been  called  the 
“Hymns  of  the  Love  of  Jesus.”  Ilis  two  best  hymns 
have  gained  a remarkable  popularity,  “and  are  indeed 
admirable  for  their  fervor  of  emotion  and  mastery  over 
difficult  but  musical  rhythms.”  They  are,  Wachet  auf, 
rnft-  uns  die  Stimme  (“  Wake,  awake,  for  night  is  fly- 
ing,” in  SehafF,  Christ  in  Sony,  p.  382;  in  the  New  Con- 
yreyational  IJymn-book,  No.  749),  and  I Vie  sehun  leucktet 
der  Moryenstern  (“How  lovely  shines  the  Star,”  Christ 
in  Sony,  p.  551),  which  latter  especially  “became  so 
popidar  that  its  tunes  were  often  ehimed  by  city  bells, 
lines  and  verses  were  printed  from  it  by  way  of  orna- 
ment on  the  eommon  earthenware  of  the  country,  and  it 
was  invariably  used  at  weddings  and  certain  festivals.” 


All  German  hymn-books  still  contain  it,  though  in  a 
somewhat  modified  form. 

The  tempest  of  war  which  for  thirty  years  swept 
over  Germany,  and  caused  a tale  of  disasters  from  which 
it  would  seem  society  could  have  never  recovered,  even 
promoted,  or  at  least  did  not  impede  in  any  way,  the 
literary  and  intellectual  activity  of  the  German  mind; 
and  this  period  is  not  only  recognised  as  having  been 
signalized  by  “ a great  outburst  of  religious  song,”  but 
as  having  produced  the  most  famous  hymnologists  of 
Germany.  First  among  these  stands  the  great  Martin 
Opitz  (1597-1639),  of  the  Silesian  school  of  German  po- 
ets, who  greatly  improved  all  German  poetry.  He 
wrote  many  versions  of  some  of  the  epistles,  and  of 
many  of  the  Psalms,  and  of  the  Song  of  Solomon.  But 
his  original  versions  are  by  far  the  best ; e.  g.  his  morn- 
ing hymn,  “O  Light,  who  out  of  Light  Avast  horn” 
(Winkworth,  p.  173).  Nest  to  him  we  find  Paul  Flem- 
ing (q.  at.)  (1609-40),  author  of  “In  alien  unseren  Tha- 
ten.”  But  most  famous  at  this  time  were  undoubtedly 
Johann  A'on  List  (q.  v.)  (1607-67),  Johann  Heermann 
(q.  a\)  (1685-1647),  and,  a little  later,  Paul  Gerhard  (q. 
v.)  (1G06-76),  avIio  Avas  the  greatest  of  them  all,  “the 
prince  of  German  hvmnists.”  Rist  Avrote  as  many  as 
600  to  700  religious  poems  and  hymns,  “ intended  to 
supply  evrery  possible  requirement  of  public  Avorship  or 
priA'ate  experience.”  His  best  are  perhaps  “Wcrde 
munter  mein  Gemiithe,”  “Auf,  auf  ihr  Reichsgenossen,” 
and  “ Werde  Lieht,  du  Yolk  der  Heiden”  (translation  in 
Schaff,  Christ  in  Sony,  p.  1 18).  Heermann’s  best  hymns 
are  “ llcrzliebster  Jesu,  Avas  hast  du  verbrochen”  ( Christ 
in  Sony,  p.  171),  “Jesu,  deine  tiefe  Wunden,”  “Zion 
Klage  mit  Angst  u.  Sehmerzen”  (WinkAvorth,  p.  198), 
“Friih  Morgens  da  die  Sonn’  aufgelit”  ( Christ  in  Sony , 
p.  263),  and  “ O Jesu  Christe,  Avahres  Lieht”  ( Christ  in 
Sony,  p.  116).  Very  beautiful  is  the  following  (trausl. 
by  Mrs.  Winkworth) : 

IN  TEMPTATION. 

“ Jesu,  victor  over  sin, 

Help  me  now  the  fight  to  Avin. 

Thou  didst  vanquish  once,  I kuoAV, 

Him  Avho  seeks  my  ovei  throAV; 

So  to  Thee  my  faiih  Avill  cleaA-e, 

And  her  hold  will  never  leave, 

Till  the  Aveary  battle’s  done, 

And  the  final  triumph  Avon  ; 

For  I too  through  Thee  may  win, 

Victory  over  death  and  sin.” 

In  Gerhard’s  hands  the  German  hymn  reached  its  high- 
est perfection,  and  his  name  is  to  the  German  justly 
dearer  than  that  of  any  other  save  Luther.  His  hymns 
are  “penraded  by  a spirit  of  the  most  cheerful  and 
healthy  piety — a piety  which  shoAvs  itself  not  merely  in 
direct  devotion  to  God  and  to  Christ,  but  in  a pure  and 
childlike  love  of  nature,  and  good  will  toAvards  men. 
They  exemplify  Coleridge’s  lines : 

‘He  praveth  best  who  loveth  best 
All  things  both  great  and  small ; 

For  the  dear  God  Avho  loveth  ns, 

He  made  and  loveth  all.’ 

They  have  the  homely  simplicity  of  Luther’s,  and  a 
strength  like  his,  if  not  quite  equal  to  it,  Avith  a versa- 
tility, smoothness,  and  literary  finish  not  to  be  found  in 
Luther’s,  and  unsurpassed  in  any  period  of  German 
hymnology”  ( Christian  Examiner,  1860,  p.  247).  Ger- 
| hardt  has  been  aptly  considered  “the  typical  poet  of  the 
Lutheran  Church,  as  Herbert  is  of  the  English but  it 
must  not  be  thought  that  he  Avas  by  any  means  a volu- 
minous Avriter.  On  the  contrary,  he  only  Avrote  alto- 
gether about  120  hymns.  His  life  and  Avritings  liaA'e 
been  dwelt  upon  so  much  in  detail  that  Ave  can  do  no 
better  here  than  leaA-e  him  Avith  a few  AA-ords  of  tribute 
so  ably  paid  by  Mrs.  WinkAvorth  : “ His  hymns  seem  to 
he  the  spontaneous  outpouring  of  a heart  that  overfloAA'S 
Avith  loA'e,  trust,  and  praise;  his  language  is  simple  and 
pure;  if  it  has  sometimes  a touch  of  homeliness,  it  has 
no  vulgarism,  and  at  times  it  rises  to  a beauty  and 
grace  which  always  ghres  the  impression  of  being  un- 
studied, yet  could  hardly  haA'e  been  improved  by  art. 


HYMNOLOGY 


441 


HYMNOLOGY 


Ilis  tenderness  and  fervor  never  degenerate  into  the 
sentimentality  and  petty  conceits  which  were  already 
becoming  fashionable  in  his  days,  nor  his  penitence 
and  sorrow  into  that  morbid  despondency  . . . for  which 
the  disappointments  of  his  own  life  might  have  furnish- 
ed some  excuse.”  Other  hymn- writers  of  this  period 
are  Andreas  Gryphius  (1616-64),  of  the  same  country 
as  Opitz,  and,  like  him,  also  a great  writer  of  secular 
literature;  Martin  Rinkart  (q.  v.),  the  writer  of  Xun 
dtinket  able  Gott  (“Let  all  men  praise  the  Lord”);  Simon 
Dach  (q.  v.),  author  of  I eh  bin  ja  Herr  in  Deiner 
Macht;  Heinrich  Albertus  (1604-68),  whose  best  hymn 
is  considered  to  be  Gott  d.  Ilimmels  n.  d.  Erden ; Georg 
Weissel  (first  half  of  the  17th  century),  who  wrote  Macht 
hoeh  die  Thar,  die  Thor  macht  weit  (in  Christ  in  Song,  p. 
17) ; the  electoress  Louisa  Henrietta  of  Brandenburg, 
who  composed  in  1G49,  after  the  death  of  her  first  hus- 
band, the  hymn  Jesus,  meine Z n versich t,  well  known  in  the 
English  dress,  “Jesus,  my  Redeemer,  lives”  (see  Christ 
in  Song,  p.  2G5) ; Ernst  Chr.  Homburg  (1G05-81),  whose 
hymns  were  published  together  under  the  title  Geistliche 
Lieder  (Nauinb.  1758).  Perhaps  his  best  hymn  is  Jesu, 
nieines  Lebens  Leben,  or  “Christ,  the  life  of  all  the  living” 
(Christ  in  Song,  p.  183) ; another,  hardly  less  beautiful,  is 
his  well-known  “ Man  of  Sorrows.”  Johann  Frank  (1618 
-77),  “who  ranks  only  second  to  Gerhardt  as  a hymn- 
writer,  and,  with  him,  marks  the  transition  from  the  ear- 
lier to  the  later  school  of  German  religious  poetry,”  pub- 
lished his  sacred  songs  under  the  title  of  Geistliekes  Zion 
(Guben,  1764).  One  of  his  best  is  Sehmiieke  dich  o liebe 
Seele,  “ Deck  thyself,  mv  soul”  (Winkworth,  Lyra  Ger- 
manica , ii,  133 : Schalf,  Christ  in  Song,  p.  590).  We  add 
here  only  Georg  Neumark  (q.  v.)  (1621-81),  for  a time 
professor  of  poetry  and  poet  laureate  at  the  University 
of  Konigsberg,  whose  most  famous  hymn  is  Wer  nur 
den  lieben  Gott  liisst  walten,  “ Leave  God  to  order  all  thy 
ways”  (Lyra  Gernumica,  p.  152) ; J.M.  Meyfarth  (1590- 
1642),  Jerusalem  du  hochgebaute  Stadt,  translated  in 
the  Christian  Examiner,  lxix,  254  (“Jerusalem,  thou 
high-built,  fair  abode”),  and  in  Lyra  Germanica,  ii, 
285) ; Friedrich  v.  Spee  (1591  or  1595-1635),  a Roman 
Catholic,  who  labored  earnestly  to  introduce  vernacular 
hymns  into  the  divine  service  of  his  Church,  wrote  A uf, 
anf,  Gott  will  gelobet  sein;  Johann  Jacob  Balde  (1603- 
G8),  also  a Roman  Catholic,  but  he  wrote  mostly  in 
Latin  (his  sacred  poems  being  published  under  the  title 
of  Carmina  Lyrica );  Georg  Phil,  llarsdbrfer  (1607-58), 
of  Southern  Germany;  A.  H.  Buehholz  (1607-71);  Jo- 
hann Olearius  (1611-84),  belonging  to  a family  who  in 
this  century  were  hymn-writers  of  some  note. 

Angelus  Silesius  (1624-77)  (as  a Lutheran,  Johann 
Seheil'er)  wrote  beautiful  hymns,  205  of  which  were 
published  under  the  title  of  Heilige  Seelenlust , oder  Geist- 
liche  Ilirtenlieder  (Bresl.  1657,  and  often).  Particularly 
excellent  are  his  Ich  will  dich  lieben  meine  Starke  (“  Thee 
will  I love,  my  strength,  my  tower”),  and  Liebe,  die  Du 
mich  zum  Bible  (“  O Love,  who  formedst  me,”  in  Sehafif, 
Christ  in  Song , p.  414 ; Christian  Examiner,  lxix,  245). 
Angelus  was  the  founder  of  the  so-called  second  Sile- 
sian School  of  poets,  as  Opitz  is  regarded  as  the  lead- 
er of  the  first.  They  wrote  both  secular  and  religious 
poetry,  but  the  latter  far  excels  the  former.  To  this 
school  belonged  Homburg,  mentioned  alwve;  the  two 
countesses  of  Scliwarzburg  Rudolfstadt ; Ivnorr  v.  Rosen- 
roth  (1636-89),  who  wrote  the  lovely  little  hymn,  Mor- 
genglanz  der  Ewigkeit  (“  Dayspring  of  eternity”) ; Chrisr 
dan  Seriver,  author  of  Jesu,  meiner  Seek  Leben,  and  oth- 
ers; Sigismund  v.  Birken  (1626-81),  who,  with  llars- 
dbrfer, already  noticed,  belonged  to  the  sentimental 
school;  Gottfried  Wilhelm  Sacer  (1635-99),  G.  Hoff- 
mann, B.  Prii  tori  us,  Johann  Neunherz,  Ivaspar  Neumann, 
who  wrote  Auf  mein  Ilerz  des  Herrn,  also  Tug,  O Gott 
von  dem  wir  A lies  haben , and  many  others. 

In  striking  contrast  with  the  formal  and  unspiritual 
hymns  of  the  second  Silesian  school  stand  the  poetical 
writings  of  the  so-called  Pietists,  originating  with  Spe- 
ncr,  “ who  for  nearly  a hundred  years  exerted  a most 


powerful  influence  both  on  the  religious  and  social  life 
of  Germany.”  The  representatives  of  this  school  are 
Philip  Jacob  Spener  (1635-1705);  his  friend  and  asso- 
ciate, August  Hermann  Francke  (1663-1727),  the  founder 
of  the  Halle  Orphan  Asylum;  Anastasins  Frevlinghau- 
sen,  a son-in-law  of  Franke,  who  wrote  44  hymns,  and 
published  (1704)  a collection  which  remained  for  some 
generations  the  favorite  collection  for  private  reading 
among  pious  persons  in  Germany.  To  the  same  pe- 
riod belong  J.  O.  Schade;  Fr.  von  Canitz;  Joachim  Ne- 
ander  (1640-80),  of  the  Reformed  Church,  who  wrote 
Lobe  den  Herrn  den  Mdchtigen ; Johann  C.  Schiitz,  au- 
thor of  Set  Lob  u.  Elir  dem  hochsten  Gut ; Christian  Ti- 
tius;  Adolph  Drese;  Sam.  Rodigast,  who  composed  in 
1675  the  world-renowned  1 1 ras  Gott  that,  das  ist  wohl- 
gethan  (“  Whate’er  my  God  ordains  is  right”) ; J.  Ad. 
Hassloeher;  Christ.  Pressovius;  Laur.  Laurenti,  whose 
best  hymn  Dr.  Sehaff  designates  Ermuntert  euch  ihr 
Fi'ommen  (“  Rejoice  all  ye  believers,”  in  Christ  in  Song.  p. 
383);  J.  B.  Freistein;  C.  Gunther,  Halt  irn  Gedachtniss 
Jesum  Christ;  Sal.  Liskovius;  J.  T.  Breithaupt;  J. 
Lange;  J.  D.  Herrnschmid;  Christ.  F.  Richter;  J.  G. 
Wolf;  Chr.  A.  Bernstein ; Chr.  J.  Koitsch  ; J.  Tribeclio- 
vius;  J.  J.  Winkler;  J.  H.  Schroder ; J.  E.  Schmidt;  P. 
Lackmann;  J.  Chr.  Lange;  L.  A.  Gotter;  B.  Crasselins, 
Ileiligster  Jesu  Heiligungsquelle ; M.  Muller;  A.  Hinkel- 
mann;  H.G.Neuss;  A.  Creutzberg;  J.Muthmann;  Ernst 
Lange  (1650-1727),  Im  Abend  blinkt  der  Morgenstern,  or 
“The  wondering  sages  trace  from  far”  (Christ  in  Song, 
p.  120);  L.  J.  Schlicht;  C.  H.  von  Bogatzkv,  the  cele- 
brated author  of  the  “Golden  Treasury”  (Das  goldene 
Schatzkastlein),  also  one  of  the  compilers  of  the  “Co- 
then  Hymn-book;”  J.  J.  Bambach  ; T.  L.  K.  Allen dorf; 
L. F. F. Lehr;  J.  S. Kunth ; E.  G.  Woltirsdorf,  and  many 
others.  There  were  also  the  Wtirtembergers,  the  best 
representatives  of  the  pietism  of  South  Germany,  of 
whom  Albert  Bengel  (1687-1732)  may  be  looked  upon 
as  a prominent  leader,  though  ns  a hymn-writer  he  was 
far  excelled  by  another  great  light  of  this  section  of 
Germany,  Philip  Friedrich  Hiller  (1699-1769),  who  took 
Paul  Gerhardt  for  his  model.  He  published  several 
volumes  of  hymns,  of  which  the  “ Casket  of  Spiritual 
Songs”  (Geistliches  Liederkastlebi),  containing  only  his 
own  sacred  songs,  “obtained  very  wide  popularity,”  and 
is  “still  the  commonest  book  in  Wurtcmberg  next  to 
the  Bible  itself”  (Winkworth,  p.283  sq.).  Here  deserve 
mention,  also,  J.  R.  Hedinger,  S.  Urlsperger,  F.  O.  Hiller, 
Ph.  II.  Weissensee,  E.  L.  Fischer,  J.  Chr.  Storr,  Ph.  D. 
Burk,  Chr.  Fr.  Ottingcr,  Chr.  K.  L.  von  Pfeil,  J.  T.  von 
Moser,  and  still  others. 

The  school  of  Spener  developed  the  Mystics  and  Sep- 
aratists, who  also  furnished  a number  of  contributors  to 
liymnology;  but,  although  some  of  them  were  quite 
able,  the  influence  of  the  new  schools,  as  a whole,  on 
hymnology  “was,  for  the  most  part,  simply  mischiev- 
ous, and  their  hymn-books  contain  about  the  worst 
specimens  to  be  found— poor  as  poetry,  fiercely  intoler- 
ant towards  their  fellow-Christians,  and  full  of  a fantas- 
tic and  irreverent  adoration  of  the  Redeemer”  (Wink- 
worth, Christian  Singers  of  Germany , p.  290).  The  only 
hymnologists  who  really  deserve  praise  are  Gottfried 
Arnold  (1666-1714)  and  Gerhard  Tersteegen  (1697- 
1769).  The  former,  although  an  extensive  writer  on 
Church  History,  etc.,  is,  indeed,  best  remembered  in  our 
day  by  his  hymns,  of  which  he  wrote  130,  and  among 
them  several  of  very  great  beauty.  Perhaps  the  best 
of  Arnold’s  hymns  is  his  deeply  thoughtful  “ How  bless’d 
to  all  thy  followers,  Lord,  the  road,”  etc.  Tersteegen 
(q.  v.),  who,  although  he  never  actually  separated  from 
the  Reformed  Church  to  which  he  belonged,  was  none 
the  less  “a Mystic  of  the  purest  type,”  wrote  more  than 
100  hymns;  but  he  has  become  especially  familiar  to 
English-speaking  Christians  by  the  English  dress  which 
Wesley  gave  to  two  of  his  best  hymns — “Lo!  God  is 
here;  let  us  adore,”  and  “Thou  hidden  love  of  God, 
whose  height,”  etc.  Lesser  lights  of  these  schools  are  J. 
Dippel,  J.  W.  Petersen,  G.  Arnold,  and  others. 


442 


HYMNOLOGY 


HYMNOLOGY 

Here  also,  finally,  deserve  notice  the  hymn-writers  of 
the  Moravians,  who  have  had  no  despicable  influence  on 
hymnology.  Of  especial  credit  are  a few  of  count  Zin- 
zendorf’s  hymns,  who,  unfortunately,  cared  more  for  their 
quantity  than  their  quality;  he  wrote  more  than  2000, 
many  of  which,  naturally  enough,  found  a place  in  Eng- 
lish hymn-books.  Ilis  own  sect  has  inserted  128.  Charles 
Wesley  also  translated  some  of  them.  Among  his  best 
are  “Jesus,  still  lead  on”  ( Jesu  geh  voran),  and  “Jesns, 
thy  blood  and  righteousness”  (Christi  Blut  u.  Gerechtig- 
fa'if).  We  might  also  mention  in  the  same  connection 
J.  Nitsclimann,  Chr.  David,  L.  J.  Dober,  F.  von  Watte- 
ville,  A.  G.  Spangenberg,  Louisa  von  Hayn,  and  others. 

By  the  end  of  the  century  the  influence  of  pietism 
had  made  itself  felt  even  among  the  so-called  “ ortho- 
dox,” who  imitated  the  Pietists  in  producing  many 
hymns  which  may  be  counted  among  the  best  written 
at  this  time.  Of  the  representatives  of  this  school  we 
name  a few : Benjamin  Schmolke,  who  wrote  more  than 
1000  hymns,  many  of  which  have  been  translated  into 
English.  Among  his  best  we  count  “ Welcome  victor 
in  the  strife”  (1  Yilkommen  Held  im  Streite ),  and  “ Heav- 
enward doth  our  jonrney  tend”  (Ilimmelan  geht  unsre 
Balin').  Wolfgang  G.  Dossier  wrote  Wie  wohl  ist  mir 
o Freund  der  Seelen  ( Christ  in  Song,  p.  191,  555, 342)  ; 
and  Salomon  Frank,  Sehniiicke  dick,  o Hebe  Seele  (“  Deck 
thyself,  my  soul,”  in  Lyra  Germanica,  ii,  133 ; Christ  in 
Song,  p.  590).  Here  deserve  mention,  also,  Erdmann 
Neumeister,  B.  Marperger,  J.  G.  Hermann,  J.  Chr.  Wen t- 
zel,  F.  Fabricius,  P.  Busch,  J.  Lehmns,  and  others;  of 
the  Reformed  Church : J.  J.  Spreng,  C.  Zollikofer,  and, 
later,  J.  E.  Lavater. 

Modern  German  Hymnologists. — Towards  the  close  of 
the  18th  century  Germany  was  waking  to  a new  rcra  in 
literature.  But  the  philosophic,  or,  as  some  acutely  call 
it,  “ the  critical  doubting”  religion  of  this  period  by  no 
means  affected  hymnology  favorably,  “for  really  good 
hymns  must  have  in  them  something  of  the  nature  of 
the  popular  song;  they  must  spring  from  a cordial,  un- 
questioning faith,  which  has  no  misgivings  about  the 
response  it  will  evoke  from  other  hearts.”  The  influ- 
ence of  the  Leibnitz-Wolfian  philosophy,  and  of  Gott- 
sched’s  school  of  poetry,  caused  the  sacred  songs  to  be 
of  a dry,  stiff,  and  artificial  style.  “ Even  the  classical 
hymns,  though  consecrated  by  association,  could  no 
longer  satisfy  the  more  pedantic  taste  of  the  age,  and 
there  sprang  up  a perfect  mania  for  altering  them,  and 
for  making  new  collections  of  such  modernized  versions. 
. . . These  alterations  generally  consisted  in  diluting  the 
old  vigor,  substituting  ‘virtue’  for  ‘holiness’  or  ‘faith,’ 
‘the  .Supreme  Being’  for  ‘our  faithful  God,’  and  so  on,” 
so  that  these  modified  hymns  may  be  said  to  have  been 
changed  from  religious  to  moral  songs.  See  Psalmody. 
One,  however,  whose  songs,  on  account  of  their  “ ration- 
al piety  and  quiet  good  taste,”  deserve  especial  praise,  is 
Christian  Fiirchtegott  Gellert  (q.  v.).  Other  hymnolo- 
gists of  this  time,  for  the  mention  of  whose  names  we 
have  only  space  here,  arc  J.  A.  Schlegel,  J.  F.  von  Cro- 
negk,  J.  P.  Uz,  J.  F.  Lbwen,  J.  S.  Diterich,  J.  S.  Patzke, 
J.  F.  Feddersen,  B.  Miintcr,  J.  F.  Mudre,  II.  C.  Hcercn, 
J.  A.  Ilermes,  F.  W.  Lodcr,  J.  Esclienhnrg,  J.  Chr.  Frij- 
bing,  S.  G.  Biirde,  Chr.  F.  Neander,  B.  llaug,  Christ.  G. 
Gbz,  and  others.  The  pathetieal  direction  was  taken  by 
Friedrich  Gottlieb  Klopstock  (q.v.),  in  his  Avferstek'n, 
ja  aufersteh'n.  He  was  followed  by  J.  A.  Cramer,  a 
very  popular  hvmnologist,  and  a friend  of  Gellert  and 
Klopstock,  G.  P.  Funk,  C.W.  Ramler,  Chr.  Chr.  Sturm, 
A.  II.  Niemeyer,  Chr.  F.  Dan,  Schubart,  and  others. 

But  the  one  really  “great  step”  that  was  made  in 
German  hymnology  at  this  time  was  the  official  sanc- 
tion of  the  use  of  vernacular  hymns  in  the  Roman  Cath- 
olic churches  of  South  Germany  and  Austria.  Natural- 
ly enough,  many  of  the  Roman  Catholic  hymns  of  the 
period  are  translations  from  the  Latin;  many  of  the 
original  compositions  follow  closely  in  style  both  Gel- 
lert and  Klopstock;  nay,  the  productions  of  several 
Protestant  hymnologists,  especially  those  of  the  two 


last-named  poets,  -were  even  used  in  the  Roman  Cath- 
olic Chnrch,  of  course  often  in  a somewhat  modified  and 
even  distorted  form.  Of  their  own  hymn-Avriters,  the 
following  deserve  especial  mention  : J.  M.  Sailer  (bish- 
op of  Ratisbon),  J.  M.  Fenneberg,  J.  H.  C.  von  Wessen- 
berg,  J.  Sperl,  and  J.  Franz.  Here  deserve  notice  also 
the  Moravians,  Chr.  Gregor,  H.  von  Bruiningk,  C.  von 
Wobeser,  G.  II.  Loskicl,  J.  J.  Bossart,  and  others;  the 
Wiirtemburgers,  C.  F.  Hartmann,  W.  L.  Hoseh,  Chr.  Ad. 
Daun,  M.  Ilahn,  Christ.  G.  Pregizer;  in  other  German 
provinces,  C.  Liebich,  Matth.  Claudius,  J.  G.  Schbner; 
and  in  the  Reformed  Church,  H.  Annoni,  F.  A.  Krumma- 
cher,  Jung-Stilling,  G.  Menken ; the  forerunner  of  the 
latest  period  is  Friedrich  von  Hardenherg  (Novalis). 

Present  German  Hymnology.— The  most  modern  pe- 
riod begins  -with  the  Avar  of  liberation  (1813-15),  and 
Avith  the  reaAvakening  of  a genuine  religious  life,  which, 
after  all,  is  sloAA'ly  gaining  the  upper  hand  over  that 
generally  supposed  dominating  scepticism.  Although  in 
the  modern  productions  the  subjecti\-e  greatly  predom- 
inates, and  they  are  still  rather  the  Avork  of  art  instead  of 
popular  songs,  yet  they  do  not  quite  attain  to  the  force 
and  condensed  pregnancy  of  the  classic  hymns,  so  that 
there  is  very  apparent  in  them  a striving  after  objectiv- 
ity, and  “ they  have  at  least  much  sweetness,  earnest- 
ness, and  simplicity.”  To  the  Romantic  school  of  which. 
Novalis  was  mentioned  belong  E.  M.  Arndt,  M.  Aron 
Sclienkendorf,  Fr.  H.  de  la  Motte  Fouque,  Louise  Heusel, 
and  Fr.  Kilckert.  Of  the  other  latest  Lutheran  hym- 
nologists, avIiosc  most  prominent  representatives  are  Alb. 
Knapp,  Viet.  Strauss,  J.  C.  Ph.  Spitta,  Chr.  R.  II.  Pueh- 
ta,  C.  A.  During,  deserA'e  mention  here : Chr.  C.  J.  As- 
schenfeld,  J.  F.  Bahnmaier,  Chr.  G.  Barth,  J.  Bentz,  Ed. 
Eyth,  F.  A.  Feldlioff,  G.  W.  Fink,  W.  R.  Frendenthal,  C. 
Aron  Griineisen,W.  Hey,  Christ.  G.  Kern,  J.  Fr.  Muller, 
Chr.  F.  H.  Saelise,  R.  Stier,  and  Chr.  H.  Zeller ; among  the 
Reformed,  J.  P.  Lange.  Among  the  IMoravians,  the  high- 
est rank  in  this  period  belongs  to  J.  B.  von  Albcrtini,  one 
of  their  bishops,  Avhose  hymns,  it  is  said,  Schleiermaeher 
asked  to  have  read  to  him  in  his  dying  hours.  C.  B.  Garve 
here  deserves  also  high  encomiums  as  a hymnologist. 
Among  the  Roman  Catholics,  AA’hose  prominent  model  is 
Spec,  “Avith  all  the  defects,  no  less  than  the  beauties  of 
style,”  the  Virgin  serving  as  the  most  usual  theme,  M. 
von  Dicpenbrock  deserves  especial  mention.  The  ex- 
tent of  German  hymnology  may  be  inferred  from  the 
fact  that  the  Evangelical  Church  alone  has  produced  no 
less  than  80,000  hymns.  See  Psalmody.  (J.  II.  W.) 

2.  English. — The  sacred  poetry  of  England  antedates 
by  many  generations  its  true  hymnology.  The  author 
of  England's  Antiphon  (George  Macdonald)  devotes  an 
interesting  chapter  to  the  sacred  lyrics  of  the  13th  cen- 
tury, in  which  he  gives  specimens  of  genuine  devo- 
tional song  from  the  Percy  Society  publications,  taken 
from  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum,  and  ascribed  to  the 
reign  of  EdAvard  I.  “ Mary  at  the  Cross,”  “The  Mourn- 
ing Disciple,”  and  the  “ Canonical  Hours”  of  "William  of 
Shoreham  furnish  illustrations  of  most  tender  and  scrip- 
tural verse,  but  are  Avritten  in  a dialect  that  needs  fre- 
quent translation  into  modern  English.  The  “Miracle 
Plays”  Avere  originally  introduced  by  the  Normans  after 
the  Conquest,  and  are  Avritten  in  Norman  French,  but 
in  1338  the  pope  permitted  them  to  be  translated  into 
English.  In  this  14th  century  “the  father  of  English  po- 
etry,” Geoffrey  Chancer,  gave  a neAv  voice  to  Christian 
song.  It  AA’as  full  tA\ro  hundred  years  from  his  ad\ent  be- 
fore England  produced  another  really  great  poet.  But 
the  age  of  Elizabeth,  as  if  to  make  up  for  the  barrenness 
of  preceding  centuries,  is  remarkable  for  the  great  num- 
ber of  its  Avriters  of  sacred  A'erse,  as  Avell  as  for  its  other 
literary  prodigies.  In  a selection  made  and  edited  by 
EdAvard  Farr,  Esq.,  for  the  “ Parker  Society,”  consisting 
chiefly  of  devotional  poems,  he  has  given  the  names  and 
brief  biographical  notices  of  no  less  than  one  hundred 
and  thirty-seven  different  authors.  Among  the  illus- 
j trious  Avriters  of  sacred  A-erses  in  this  a-ra  Ave  find  queen 
| Elizabeth,  archbishop  Parker,  Edmund  Spenser,  George 


HYMNOLOGY 


443 


HYMNOLOGY 


Gascoigne,  Michael  Drayton,  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  Sir 
Philip  Sidney,  the  Fletcher  brothers — Giles  and  Phin- 
eas,  Dr.  Donne,  George  Withers,  lord  Bacon,  the  count- 
ess of  Pembroke  (sister  of  Sir  Philip  Sidney,  and  joint 
author  with  him  of  a version  of  the  Psalms).  Later  still 
we  find  quaint  old  Philip  Quarles,  and  Robert  Southwell, 
the  martyr  monk,  and  their  contemporary,  sweet  George 
Herbert/  The  great  dramatists  of  that  golden  age  have 
left  here. and  there  some  outbursts  of  deep  religious  po- 
etry and  song,  which  at  least  show  forth  their  obliga- 
tions to  the  Bible  and  to  the  Christianity  of  the  period. 
Haywood,  Shirley,  and  Ben  Jonson,  Beaumont  and 
Fletcher,  and  Shakespeare,  greatest  of  all,  swell  the 
hymnic  chorus.  But  the  dramatic  gave  way  gradually 
to  lyric  poetry',  and  in  the  succeeding  century  we  have 
an  increasing  number  of  devout  poets,  of  whom  the  im- 
mortal Milton  must  always  be  the  chief.  Yet  the  sin- 
gular fact  remains  that  during  all  these  ages  there  was 
“ nothing  like  a People’s  Hymn-book  in  England.”  It 
is  true  that  Christian  worship  was  not  without  its  tem- 
ple songs.  The  Psalms  of  David,  the  Te  Deum,  the 
Magnificat , the  Glorias,  and  the  “ Song  of  the  Angels,” 
the  “Ambrosian  Hymn,”  and  some  of  the  hymns  of 
the  Middle  Ages,  were  chanted  in  the  churches  and  ca- 
thedrals. But  the  so-called  hymns  of  Spenser  and  Mil- 
ton,  and  of  minor  writers,  never  entered  into  the  Chris- 
tian heart,  life,  and  worship  of  British  Christianity. 
Germany  possessed  a classic  literature  of  this  sort  a cen- 
tury and  a half  before  England  had  a hymnal.  The 
rude  version  of  the  Psalms  by  Sternhold  and  Hopkins, 
the  smoother  but  insipid  version  of  Brady  and  Tate 
which  superseded  it,  and  the  more  faithful  Scottish 
version,  which  was  the  work  of  an  English  Puritan 
(Rouse),  were  sung  by  those  whose  stern  revolt  against 
Romanism  led  them  to  reject  even  what  was  really 
good  and  scriptural  in  her  order  of  worship  and  litur- 
gical books.  The  faidts  of  the  age  are  conspicuous  in 
its  poetry.  It  is  intellectual,  metaphysical,  reflective, 
literary,  full  of  “quips,  anil  cranks,  and  wanton  wiles;” 
cumbrous  and  overdone.  With  very  few  exceptions, 
there  is  nothing  that  people  would  care  to  sing,  or  could 
sing,  for  there  is  little  of  that  emotional  element  which 
goes  out  in  musical  expression.  The  rhymes  are  rude 
and  irregular,  and  the  very  art  of  the  poetry  seems  to 
defy  any  attempts  to  set  it  to  popular  music.  For  “ peo- 
ple cannot  think  and  sing ; they  can  only  feel  and  sing.” 
Even  Milton’s  magnificent  hymn,  “ On  the  Morning  of 
Christ’s  Nativity,”  is  not  adapted  to  common  Sabbath 
worship;  and  there  are  few  of  George  Herbert’s  verses 
that  survive  in  the  songs  of  the  sanctuary. 

The  period  succeeding  this  revival  of  literature  pro- 
duced some  Christian  poets  of  note,  and  a few  hymns 
which  survive  their  authors.  Bunyan,  and  Baxter,  and 
Jeremy  Taylor  all  wrote  verses,  but  their  prose  had 
more  of  poetry  in  it  than  their  attempts  at  song.  Among 
those  whose  good  old  hymns  have  stood  the  test  of 
time,  we  must  not  forget  the  Rev.  John  Mason,  of  Wa- 
ter-Stratford,  who  died  in  1G94,  author  of  “Come, dear- 
est Lord,  and  feed  thy  sheep;  on  this  sweet  day  of  rest,” 
“ Now  from  the  altar  of  our  hearts,”  “ What  shall  I ren- 
der to  my  God?”  etc.  He  published  a volume  of 
“Spiritual  Songs”  in  1G8G.  Dr. Watts  borrowed  much 
from  him.  The  good  non-juror,  bishop  Ken  (1637-1711), 
bequeathed  to  Christendom  his  famous  “Morning  and 
Evening  Hymns,”  and  that  matchless  doxologv,  “ Praise 
God,  from  whom  all  blessings  flow.”  Next  comes  Jo- 
seph Addison,  whose  elegant  version  of  the  nineteenth 
Psalm,  commencing  “ The  spacious  firmament  on  high,” 
first  appeared  in  the  Spectator  in  1712,  at  the  close  of 
an  article  on  “the  right  means  to  strengthen  faith;” 
and  about  the  same  time  was  published  his  sweet  para- 
phrase of  the  twenty-third  Psalm.  Perhaps  the  most 
familiar  of  his  hymns  is  that  beginning  “ When  all  thy 
mercies,  O my  God.”  See  Addison. 

The  Reformation  in  England  did  not,  as  in  Germany, 
grow  by  the  spontaneous  utterance  of  popular  Christian 
Bong.  That  was  left  for  the  period  of  the  great  evangeli- 


cal revival  which  crowned  the  last  century  with  its  bless- 
ings. All  that  had  been  done  before  was  as  the  broad  and 
deep  foundation-work,  rude  and  unchiselled,  but  strong 
and  essential  to  the  majestic  superstructure  which  has 
risen  upon  it.  The  stream  of  Christian  verse  flowed  on 
in  its  old  channels  until  the  publication  of  the  Psalms  and 
Hymns  of  Dr.  Watts  began  a new  sera  in  English  hvm- 
nology.  The  poet  Montgomery'  says  that  “ Dr.  Watts 
may  almost  be  called  the  inventor  of  hymns  in  our  lan- 
guage, for  he  so  far  departed  from  all  precedent  that 
few  of  his  compositions  resemble  those  of  his  forerun- 
ners, -while  he  so  far  established  a precedent  to  all  his 
successors  that  none  have  departed  from  it  otherwise 
than  according  to  the  peculiar  turn  of  mind  of  the  writ- 
er, and  the  style  of  expressing  Christian  truth  employed 
by  the  denomination  to  which  he  belonged.”  Dissenter 
as  he  was,  his  Psalms  and  Hymns  are  so  catholic  in 
their  spirit  that  many  of  them  have  been  adopted  by 
all  denominations  of  Protestant  Christians  in  their  Sab- 
bath worship.  His  Divine  Songs  for  Children , and 
some  of  his  Psalms,  will  live  while  the  language  endnres. 
The  defects  of  his  style  are  obvious  in  many  of  his  lyr- 
ics, which  evince  haste  and  negligence,  faulty  rhymes, 
and  a prosing  feebleness  of  expression.  Yet  he  broke 
bravely  tlirough  the  mannerisms  of  preceding  ages,  and 
inaugurated  a style  of  Christian  hymnologv  which  has 
alike  enriched  the  evangelical  poetry  of  the  English 
tongue,  and  filled  the  temples  and  homes  of  the  race 
that  speaks  that  language  with  the  most  delightful 
praises  of  the  Most  High.  His  example  was  soon  fol- 
lowed with  success  by  others.  But  to  him  belongs  the 
undisputed  honor  of  being  the  great  precentor  of  the 
immense  chorus  which  he  will  forever  lead  in  these  glo. 
rious  harmonies.  His  first  hymn  was  given  to  the 
Church  under  circumstances  of  prophetic  interest.  He 
had  complained  to  some  official  in  the  Independent 
church  of  Southampton,  of  which  his  father  -was  a dea- 
con, “ that  the  hymnists  of  the  day  were  sadly  out  of 
taste.”  “Give  us  something  better,  young  man,”  was 
the  reply'.  The  young  mail  did  it,  and  the  Church  was 
invited  to  close  its  evening  sendee  -with  a new  hymn, 
which  commenced, 

“Behold  the  glories  of  the  Lamb 
Amidst  His  Father’s  throue ; 

Prepare  new  honors  for  His  name, 

And  songs  before  uuknown.” 

From  that  time  his  ever-ready  muse  gave  forth,  in 
strains  which  are  almost  divine,  “harmonies”  for  his 
Saviour’s  name,  and  “songs  before  unknown.”  We 
need  only  indicate  a few  of  the  first  lines : “ When  I 
survey  the  ivondrous  cross,”  “My  God,  the  spring  of  all 
my  joys,”  “ When  I can  read  my  title  clear,”  “ Come, 
ye  that  love  the  Lord,”  “Come,  let  us  join  onr  cheerful 
songs,”  “ He  dies,  the  friend  of  sinners  dies.”  His  “ Cra- 
dle Hy'mn”  has  taught  countless  mothers  and  children 
to  sing  of  Jesus,  and  the  angels  and  manger  of  Bethle- 
hem : “Hush,  my  dear,  lie  still  and  slumber.”  It  was 
while  looking  out  from  his  quiet  chamber  window  at 
Southampton  “ upon  the  beautiful  scenery'  of  the  harbor 
and  river,  and  upon  the  green  glades  of  the  New  Forest 
on  its  farther  bank,  that,  the  idea  suggested  itself  of  the 
image  of  the  heavenly'  Canaan,”  which  he  soon  embodied 
in  those  sweetest  of  all  his  verses,  “ There  is  a land  of 
pure  delight,”  etc.  See  Watts. 

Only'  seven  years  before  the  first  edition  of  Watts’s 
IIyrmns  was  given  to  the  world,  Philip  Doddridge  was 
born  (1702);  and  before  the  death  of  his  great  predeces- 
sor, whose  verses  cheered  his  own  dying  hours  in  a dis- 
tant land,  he  had  published  most  of  his  sweetest  hy'mns. 
Some  of  these  are  imperishable,  for  they  have  become 
part  of  the  spiritual  life  of  onr  Protestant  Christianity. 
Many  of  them  grew  out  of  and  were  appended  to  his 
sermons,  which  he  crystallized  into  such  hymns  as 
“Thine  earthly  Sabbaths,  Lord,  we  love”  (Heb.  iv,  9), 
“Jesus,  I love  thy'  charming  name”  (1  Pet.  v,  7).  His 
Rise  and  Progress  of  Religion  in  the  Soul,  which  was 
written  at  the  suggestion  of  Dr.  Watts,  and  has  been 


HYMNOLOGY  444  HYMNOLOGY 


translated  into  the  leading  languages  of  Europe,  and  his 
Family  Expositor  of  the  New  Testament , are  monuments 
of  his  wonderful  religious  power  and  usefulness.  But 
his  hymns  will  be  sung  where  his  larger  works  are  nev- 
er heard  of,  and  the  world  will  never  cease  to  echo  the 
strains  of  such  songs  as  “Awake,  my  soul,  stretch  every 
nerve!"  “Hark,  the  glad  sound,  the  Saviour’s  come!” 
“Grace,  ’tis  a charming  sound,”  “Ye  golden  lamps  of 
heaven,  farewell !”  See  Doddridge. 

The  most  voluminous  and  successful  of  all  English 
hymnists  is  the  Rev.  Charles  Wesley.  Over  seven  thou- 
sand psalms  and  hymns  were  written  by  his  facile  pen  ; 
and  these  were  merely  the  by-play  of  a tireless  itiner- 
ant evangelist,  who,  with  his  more  celebrated  brother 
John,  himself  also  a hymn-writer  of  no  mean  powers, 
preached  the  Gospel  in  the  Old  and  New  worlds,  and 
gave  a new  style  to  Christian  song.  Their  history,  la- 
bors, persecutions,  and  triumphs  are  so  well  known  that 
we  need  only  mention  their  sainted  names.  John  AYes- 
ley  was  the  author  or  translator  of  several  excellent 
hymns,  and  a capital  critic  on  liymnologv.  Of  Charles 
AATesIey’s  hymns  a large  number  have  taken  a more  than 
classic  place  in  our  poetic  literature.  The  Christian 
Church  will  never  cease  to  sing  “Oh  love  divine,  how 
sweet  thou  art!”  “Jesus,  lover  of  ray  soul,”  “ Hark ! the 
herald  angels  sing,”  “ The  earth  with  all  its  fulness 
owns,”  “Come,  let  us  join  our  friends  above.”  Dr. 
\\ratts  said  of  Charles  AVesley’s  inimitable  rendering  of 
the  wrestling  of  Jacob  at  Peniel  with  the  angel, “That 
single  poem,  ‘ AVrestling  Jacob,’  is  worth  all  the  verses 
which  I have  ever  written.”  Doubtless  much  of  the 
power  of  his  hymns  is  attributable  to  the  circumstances 
which  gave  rise  to  them,  and  to  his  facility  in  giving 
them  the  most  fresh  and  vivid  forms  of  expression.  On 
the  last  projecting  rock  on  Land’s  End,  Cornwall,  he  stood 
and  wrote  that  memorable  hymn,  “ Lo  ! on  a narrow  neck 
of  land,”  etc.  His  judgment  hymn,  commencing  “ Stand, 
the  omnipotent  decree,”  and  twro  others,  were  written  and 
published  in  1756,  just  after  the  destruction  of  the  city  of 
Lisbon  by  an  earthquake.  “ Glory  to  God,  vThose  sover- 
eign grace,”  was  written  for  the  Kingswood  colliers, whose 
wonderful  conversion,  under  the  preaching  of  AA’hite- 
field  and  the  AA’esleys,  was  among  the  miracles  of  grace 
which  attended  their  apostolic  ministry.  “Oh  for  a 
thousand  tongues,  to  sing  my  great  Redeemer’s  praise,” 
commemorates  his  own  spiritual  birth,  and  was  written 
in  response  to  a German  friend,  the  Moravian  Peter 
Boehler,  who  said  to  him,  when  hesitating  to  confess 
publicly  his  conversion,  “If  you  had  a thousand  tongues 
you  shoidd  publish  it  with  them  all.”  Another  power- 
ful accessory  of  the  AA7esleyan  hymns  was  the  music 
with  which  many  of  them  were  accompanied.  The 
great  composer  Handel  set  some  of  them  to  noble  tunes, 
the  IM SS.  of  which  are  still  preserved  in  the  library  of 
Cambridge  University.  But  their  greatest  interest  and 
success  doubtless  comes  from  their  scriptural  character, 
their  immense  range  over  all  varieties  of  Christian  ex- 
perience, and  their  intimate  relation  to  the  great  revi- 
val of  religion  of  which  these  remarkable  men  and  their 
compeers  were  the  leading  instruments.  (A  striking 
illustration  of  all  these  features  is  given  in  the  hymn — 
at  once  expository  and  experimental — of  which  we  have 
space  for  only  part  of  one  stanza: 

“’Tis  mystery  all— the  Immortal  diesl 
AVlio  can  explore  his  strange  design  ? * * * 

’Tie  mercy  all ! let  earth  adore : 

Let  augel  minds  inquire  no  more.”) 

They  wore  among  the  providential  and  gracious  devel- 
opments of  a period  whose  influences,  at  the  end  of  a 
hundred  years,  arc  yet  only  beginning  to  show  forth  the 
high  praises  of  their  Master.  See  Wesley,  John  and 
Charles. 

A\re  have  given  more  space  to  these  celebrated  hymn- 
writers  because  of  their  historical  relations  to  the  new 
sera  of  devotional  and  sanctuary  song  which  they  intro- 
duced. From  that  period  the  number,  variety,  and  ex- 
cellence of  the  contributions  to  our  Christian  lyrics  has 


increased,  until  the  hymnology  of  the  English  tongue 
is  second  only  to  that  of  Germany  in  volume  and  diver- 
sity. The  literary'  character  of  these  productions  has 
been  raised  to  a higher  standard,  and  their  scriptural 
and  experimental  value  has  been  tested  both  by  their 
denominational  uses,  and  by  that  truly  catholic  spirit 
which  has  made  them  the  property  of  the  Church  Uni- 
versal. Inferior  compositions  have  been  gradually 
dropped,  and  replaced  by  others  of  undoubted  merit,  un- 
til the  collections  of  the  various  Christian  churches 
have  overflowed  ivith  the  very  best  hymns  of  all  ages. 
The  most  remarkable  evidence  of  these  statements  is 
found  in  the  recent  attention  given  to  the  history  and 
literature  of  our  saertd  poetry  by  English  and  American 
writers,  who  have  patiently  explored  the  whole  held, 
and  have  garnered  its  treasures  in  many  admirable  col- 
lections. Referring  our  readers  to  these  accessible  pub- 
lications, we  can  devote  the  limited  space  left  in  this 
article  only  to  brief  notices  of  the  principal  contributors 
to  the  volume  of  divine  praises  since  the  AA"esleys  died. 

Of  their  contemporaries,  we  can  never  forget  Augus- 
tus Toplady  (1741-1778),  and  his  almost  inspired  hymn, 
“ Rock  of  Ages,  cleft  for  me,”  and  others  of  his  excellent 
collection.  See  Toplady.  Nor  will  the  churches  cease 
to  sing  the  magnificent  strains  of  his  theological  oppo- 
nent, Thomas  Olivers  (1725-1799),  in  his  judgment 
hymn,  beginning  “ Come,  immortal  King  of  glory.”  See 
Olivers.  Along  with  them  came  AYilliam  AVilliams 
(1717-1791),  the  Methodist  “AAratts  of  AATales,”  sing- 
ing “O’er  the  gloomy  hills  of  darkness,”  and  “Guide 
me,  oh  thou  great  Jehovah and  John  Cennick,  the  de- 
vout Moravian,  to  whom  we  are  indebted  for  two  of  the 
finest  hymns  ever  written — •“  Rise,  my  soul,  and  stretch 
thy  wings,”  and  “ Lo ! he  comes  with  clouds  descending.” 
The  latter  lias  been  erroneously  attributed  to  Olivers, 
in  whose  judgment  hymn  are  stanzas  which  it  resem- 
bles in  some  respects,  but  a close  inspection  shows  them 
to  be  entirely  different  productions.  Cennick’s  hymn 
first  appeared  in  a “Collection  of  Sacred  Hymns’  in 
1752.  See  Cennick.  Next  in  order  appeared  the  col- 
lection of  hymns  by  the  Rev.  Benjamin  Beddome  (1717- 
1795),  a Baptist  clergyman,  whom  a London  congrega- 
tion could  not  tempt  to  leave  his  little  flock  at  Bourton, 
where  lie  labored  fifty-two  years,  and  preached  and 
sang  of  Jesus.  He  was  the  author  of  “Did  Christ  o’er 
sinners  weep  ?”  “ Faith,  ’tis  a precious  grace,”  “ Let  par- 
ty names  no  more,”  etc.  Thomas  Hawcis,  chaplain  to 
the  countess  of  Huntington,  a theological  author  of 
note,  and  one  of  the  founders  of  the  London  Missionary 
Society  (1739-1820),  was  the  author  of  ovtr  two  hundred 
and  fifty  hymns,  some  of  which  are  favorites  still ; but  to 
the  countess  herself,  the  patron  and  fritnd  of  AAThitefield, 
and  Berridge,  and  Komaiiie,  we  are  in  del  ted  for  such 
undying  hymns  as  “ Oh  ! when  my  righteous  judge  shall 
come,”  “ A\Tc  soon  shall  hear  the  midnight  cry.”  She  died 
in  1791,  at  the  age  of  eightv-four,  having  devoted  lierfor- 
tune  and  life  to  the  cause  of  Christ.  Some  of  the  sweet- 
est hymns  for  the  Church  and  the  home  which  this  age 
produced  were  written  by  the  daughter  of  a Baptist 
clergyman  at  Broughton,  Miss  Anne  Steele  (1716-1778). 
She  withheld  her  name  from  her  poems,  but  the  Eng- 
lish-speaking Christian  world  still  sings  from  its  myriad 
hearts  and  tongues,  “ Father,  wliate’er  of  earthly  bliss,” 
“Jesus,  my  Lord,  in  thy  dear  name  unite  All  things  my 
heart  calls  great,  or  good,  or  sweet,”  etc.;  “Come,  ye 
that  love  the  Saviour’s  name and  some  of  her  sacra- 
mental hymns  are  fine  specimens  of  Christian  song. 

The  next  hymn-book  of  importance  that  appeared  in 
Great  Britain  was  the  Olney  hymns,  which  is  the  joint 
production  of  those  gifted  and  illustrious  men,  so  differ- 
ent in  their  characters  and  lives,  and  yet  so  united  in 
the  love  of  Christ — the  Rev.  John  Newton  and  AArilliam 
Cowper.  To  this  book  Newton  furnished  two  hundred 
and  eighty-six  hymns,  and  Cowper  sixtv-two.  It  was 
published  first  in  1779,  before  Cowper’s  reputation  as  a 
poet  was  made.  The  hymns  were  written  between 
1767  and  1779,  and  doubtless  would  have  contained 


HYMNOLOGY 


445 


HYMNOLOGY 


more  of  Coder’s  contributions  but  for  a return  of  bis 
insanity.  The  history  of  these  noble  coworkers  for 
Christ  is  too  well  known  to  require  more  than  this  allu- 
sion. Their  deep  personal  experiences  are  written  in 
many  of  their  delightful  verses,  and  reflected  in  the 
Christian  life  of  succeeding  generations.  Who  that  re- 
members Newton’s  marvellous  conversion,  and  his  sub- 
sequent life  of  piety  and  distinguished  usefulness,  until 
his  death  at  the  age  of  eighty-two  (1807),  will  not  ap- 
preciate the  fervor  with  which  he  sang, 

“Amazing  grace  ! how  sweet  the  sound 
That  saved  a wretch  like  me 
or  “ IIow  sweet  the  name  of  Jesus  sounds 
In  a believer’s  ear 
or  “ Sometimes  a light  surprises 

The  Christiau  while  he  sings 
or  “Day  of  judgment,  day  of  wonders, 

Dark ! the  trumpet's  awful  sound  ?” 

See  Newton,  John.  And  the  English  language  itself 
must  die  before  Cowper’s  plaintive  music  ceases  to  vi- 
brate through  believers’  souls  in  those  almost  perfect 
hymns  in  which  he  wrote  out  and  yet  veiled  the  strange, 
sweet,  and  attractive  experiences  of  his  own  religious 
life : “To  Jesus,  the  crown  of  my  hope,”  “Far  from  the 
world,  O Lord,  I flee,”  “Oh!  for  a closer  walk  with 
God,”  “There  is  a fountain  filled  with  blood,”  “God 
moves  in  a mysterious  way.”  It  has  been  well  said  by 
Dr.  Cheever  that  “ if  Cowper  had  never  given  to  the 
Church  on  earth  but  a single  score  of  those  exquisite 
breathings  of  a pious  heart  and  creations  of  his  own  ge- 
nius, it  had  been  a bequest  worth  a life  of  suffering  to 
accomplish.”  See  Cowper. 

It  was  long  before  another  bard  arose  to  take  up  the 
lyre  which  this  gentle  singer  laid  down.  A few  strains 
come  floating  through  the  succeeding  years,  such  as 
Robinson’s  “ Come,  thou  fount  of  every  blessing,”  and 
“Jesus,  and  can  it  ever  be,  a mortal  man  ashamed  of 
thee!”  written  in  1774  by  Thomas  Green  of  Ware,  then 
a precocious  boy  of  only  ten  years ! Of  female  hym- 
nists  we  have  at  this  period  Mrs.  Barbauld  (1743-1825) 
and  Jane  Taylor,  both  of  whom  left  some  sweet  hymns 
for  the  sanctuary.  The  former  will  be  best  remembered 
by  her  beautiful  lines  on  the  death  of  a believer — 
“Sweet is  the  scene  when  Christians  die;”  the  latter  by 
her  Hymns  for  Infant  Minds.  To  them  we  must  add 
Miss  Hannah  More  (1744-1833),  whose  practical  Chris- 
tian prose  writings  possess  a masculine  vigor  and  Bib- 
lical earnestness,  and  whose  poetry,  although  not  of  the 
highest  order,  yet  often  overflows  with  melody  and  ten- 
der feeling.  Her  Christmas  hymn,  “ Oh ! how  won- 
drous is  the  story  of  our  Bedeemer’s  birth,”  is  a favora- 
ble specimen.  Among  the  minor  poets  of  this  period 
we  mention  Dr.  John  Ryland,  born  in  1753,  author  of 
“ In  all  my  Lord’s  appointed  ways,”  “ Lord,  teach  a lit- 
tle child  to  pray,”  “Sovereign  Ruler  of  the  skies,”  “O 
Lord,  I would  delight  in  thee and  the  Rev.  John  Lo- 
gan, who  died  in  1788,  at  the  age  of  forty,  a Scottish 
preacher  famed  for  his  eloquence,  who  wrote  such  hymns 
as  “Where  high  the  heavenly  temple  stands,”  “ Oh,  city 
of  the  Lord,  begin  the  universal  song,”  “ Oh  God  of 
Bethel ! by  whose  hand  thy  people  still  are  fed,”  “ The 
hour  of  my  departure’s  come,”  etc.  To  the  poet  of  the 
poor,  Rev.  George  Crabbe,  we  are  indebted  for  those  de- 
lightful lines,  “ Pilgrim,  burdened  with  thy  sin,  come 
the  way  to  Zion’s  gate;”  and  to  Rev. Samuel  Medley,  a 
Baptist  minister  of  Liverpool  (1738-1799),  for  the  stir- 
ring lyrics,  “Mortals,  awake!  with  angels  join,”  and 
“Awake,  my  soul,  in  joyful  lays.”  The  name  of  Henry 
Kirke  White  (1785-1808)  will  ever  live  in  the  splendid 
hymn  in  which  he  sang  the  story  of  the  birth  of  the 
Redeemer  and  of  his  own  conversion,  “ When  marshal- 
led on  the  mighty  plain.”  From  his  pen  also  flowed 
those  characteristic  hymns  beginning  “The  Lord  our 
God  is  full  of  might,”  “O  Lord,  another  day  is  flown,” 
“Through  sorrow’s  night  and  danger’s  path.”  See 
Henry  K.  White.  The  coronation  hymn,  “All  hail 
the  power  of  Jesus’  name,”  was  written  by  the  Rev. 


Edward  Perronet,  an  English  dissenting  clergyman, 
who  died  at  Canterbury  in  1792,  exclaiming,  “ Glory  to 
God  in  the  height  of  his  divinity,  glory  to  God  in  the 
depth  of  his  humanity,  glory  to  God  in  his  all-sufticien- 
cv,  and  into  his  hands  I commend  my  spirit!”  The 
grand  tune  which  has  always  been  associated  with  these 
lines  was  composed  for  them  by  a Mr.  Shrubsole,  a friend 
of  the  author,  and  organist  at  the  chapel  of  Spa  Fields, 
London,  1784-180G.  We  can  only  allude  in  a sentence 
to  the  well-known  occasional  hymns  of  the  great  poets, 
Pope  and  Dryden, Wordsworth,  Campbell,  Moore,  South- 
ey, and  some  of  their  associates. 

But  the  Church  Universal  owes  a greater  debt  to 
James  Montgomery  (1771-1854).  No  man  since  the 
days  of  Cowper  has  added  so  many  admirable  versions 
of  the  Psalms  and  noble  hymns  to  the  English  language 
as  this  gifted  Moravian,  whose  prolific  muse  never  ceased 
to  lavish  its  treasures  until,  at  fourscore  years,  he  went 
up  higher.  Ilis  paraphrase  of  the  seventy-second 
Psalm,  commencing  “Hail  to  the  Lord’s  anointed,”  is  a 
classic  full  of  the  old  Hebrew  fire  and  of  the  best  mod- 
em missionary  spirit.  His  “Thrice  holy”  (Isa.  vi,  3), 
beginning  “ Holy,  holy,  holy  Lord,”  seems  to  blend  the 
voices  of  “saints  and  seraphim”  in  one  glorious  pro- 
phetic anthem.  Of  his  other  hymns  we  need  only 
name  the  Hallelujah,  “ Hark ! the  song  of  Jubilee the 
Christmas  choruses,  “Angels  from  the  realms  of  glory,” 
and  “ Ilark!  the  herald  angels  sing;”  the  song  of  heav- 
en, “ Forever  with  the  Lord ;”  the  hymn  on  the  death 
of  an  aged  minister,  “ Servant  of  God,  well  done,”  writ- 
ten in  memory  of  his  friend,  Rev.  Thomas  Taylor;  and 
that  on  the  decease  of  the  Rev.  John  Owen,  secretary 
of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  “ Go  to  the 
grave  in  all  thy  glorious  prime.”  His  verses,  “ Prayer  is 
the  soul’s  sincere  desire,”  “ Oh ! where  shall  rest  be 
found?”  “What  are  these  in  bright  array?”  are  only  a 
few  of  the  priceless  gems  which  he  has  set  in  the  crown 
of  our  Christian  praises.  See  Montgomery,  James. 

In  this  later  period  of  English  hymnology  many  and 
very  sweet  have  been  the  singers  and  their  sacred  songs. 
There  is  Henry  F.  Lvte,  the  rector  of  Brixham  (1793- 
1847),  author  of  “ Jesus,  I my  cross  have  taken,”  and  of 
those  delightful  “hymns  from  beneath  the  cloud,”  “My 
spirit  on  thy  care,  blest  Saviour,  I recline,”  and  the  last 
that  he  ever  wrote,  “Abide  with  me,  fast  falls  the  even- 
tide.” It  was  of  his  Tales  in  Verse  that  professor  Wil- 
son, in  the  “Noqtes  Ambrosiana?,”  wrote,  “Now  that  is 
the  right  kind  of  religious  poetry.  He  ought  to  give 
us  another  volume.”  That  volume  soon  came,  entitled 
Poems , chief y religious.  The  female  hvmnists  increase 
in  number  and  in  power  in  this  period.  Mrs.  Felicia 
Hemans,  Caroline  Bowles,  and  others  of  great  repute, 
lead  the  way  with  their  sweet  music.  We  have  learn- 
ed to  sing  “Nearer,  my  God,  to  thee,”  from  Miss  Sa- 
rah F.  Adams,  who  died  in  1849  in  her  old  home,  Dor- 
setshire ; and  Charlotte  Elliott,  of  Torquay,  struck  a new 
chord  for  all  the  world  when  she  wrote,  in  183G,  those 
inimitable  verses,  “Just  as  I am,  without  one  plea.” 
She  is  the  author  of  several  volumes,  and  furnished  one 
hundred  and  seventeen  hymns  to  The  Invalid's  Ilymn- 
book,  the  last  edition  of  which  she  supervised.  Sirs. 
Barret  Browning,  Mrs.  Charles,  of  “ Schonberg  Cotta” 
fame.  Miss  Adelaide  Proctor,  Mary  Howitt,  and  the 
Bronte  sisters — Charlotte,  Emily,  and  Anne,  Isabella 
Craig,  and  Mrs.  Craik,  formerly  Miss  Mulock,  author  of 
John  Halifax , Gentleman,  are  among  the  later  chief 
singers  of  their  sex  whose  verses  have  enriched  our 
hymnals.  Sir  John  Bowring,  born  in  1792,  author  of 
“In  the  cross  of  Christ  I glory,”  “Watchman,  tell  us  of 
the  night;”  the  dean  of  St. Paul’s,  Dr.  Henry  Hart  Mil- 
man,  archbishop  Trench,  John  Keble,  with  his  Chris- 
tian Year,  the  poet  leader  of  the  Anglican  Catholic 
movement  in  the  English  establishment,  Alexander 
Knox,  Allan  Cunningham,  Robert  Pollok,  bishop  Heber, 
with  his  glorious  advent,  and  judgment,  and  missionary 
hymns,  Bernard  Barton,  the  Quaker  poet,  canon  Words- 
worth, and  the  late  dean  Alford,  of  Westminster  Abbey, 


446 


HYMNOLOGY 


HYMNOLOGY 

Faber,  the  devout  Romish  hvmnist,  and  T>r.  John  H. 
Newman,  once  of  Oxford  and  now  of  Rome,  Robert  Mur- 
ray M‘Cheyne,  and  John  R.  M‘Duff,  the  Scottish  preach- 
ers, with  Horatius  Bonar,  of  Kelso,  author  of  the  de- 
lightful Hymns  of  Faith  and  Hope , many  of  which  are 
already  familiar  as  household  words,  and  Edward  H. 
Bickersteth,  whose  poem  “ Yesterday,  to-day,  and  for- 
ever” is  “ one  of  the  most  remarkable  of  the  age” — all 
these,  and  more  whom  we  cannot  even  name,  swell  the 
majestic  volume  of  our  most  recent  British  sacred  song. 

It  is  not  any  exaggeration  to  say  that  many  of  their 
hymns  will  compare  favorably  with  the  best  that  pre- 
ceded them,  and  that  some  of  them  can  never  die  while 
their  mother  tongue  is  the  vehicle  of  Christian  praise. 

3.  American. — Poetry  was  not  cultivated  in  our  he- 
roic age  for  its  own  sake,  and  the  singers  were  few  and 
far  between.  The  churches  mostly  used  the  psalms 
and  hymns  which  they  brought  with  them  from  the 
Old  World  until  after  the  Revolutionary  War.  Presi- 
dent Davies  (1724-1761)  left  some  poems,  among  which 
his  lines  on  the  birth  of  an  infant,  and  the  noble  hymn 
commencing  “ Great  God  of  wonders ! all  thy  ways,”  are 
most  familiar.  The  celebrated  Dr.  Timothy  Dvright,  at 
the  request  of  the  Congregational  ministers  of  Connec- 
ticut, revised  the  psalms  of  Dr.  Watts,  and  added  over 
twenty  of  his  own  versifications  to  the  volume.  Of  all 
that  he  wrote,  however,  none  have  such  beauty  and  vi- 
tality as  his  rendering  of  Psalm  cxix,  “ How  precious  is 
the  Book  divine!”  Psalm  cxxxvii,  “I  love  thy  king- 
dom, Lord and  of  Psalm  cl,  “ In  Zion’s  sacred  gates.” 
These  are  universal  favorites.  In  his  preface  to  that 
admirable  volume,  Christ  in  Song,  Dr.  Philip  Schaff 
says, “ The  Lyra  Sacra  of  America  is  well  represented. 
Although  only  about  thirty  years  old,  it  is  far  richer 
than  our  British  friends  are  aware  of.”  Abundant  proof 
of  its  richness  is  furnished  in  the  Hymns  of  Immanuel, 
which  the  author  has  gathered  into  this  remarkable 
collection  of  Christological  poetry',  a number  of  which 
were  furnished  by  their  authors  for  this  work.  It  is 
scarcely  necessary  in  these  pages  to  quote  at  any  length 
those  hymns  which  have  been  adopted  into  nearly  all 
of  the  recent  books  of  praise  for  the  various  denomina- 
tions. We  shall  therefore  only  refer  to  the  most  noted 
authors,  and  give  parts  of  some  of  the  hymns  which 
seem  destined  to  secure  a permanent  place  in  our  Amer- 
ican hymnals.  The  earlier  poets — I’ercival,  Pierpont, 
Ilenry  Ware,  Jr.,  Richard  II.  Dana,  Washington  Alston, 
John  Neal,  N.  P.  Willis,  Brainard,  J.W.  Eastburn,  Car- 
los Wilcox,  Ilillhousc,  with  Bryant,  Longfellow,  Tuck- 
erman,  and  Whittier,  who  are  still  living — have  all  made 
occasional  contributions  to  the  stock  of  popular  hymns, 
chiefly  of  the  Unitarian  and  Universalist  bodies.  The 
clergy  of  the  American  churches  have  probably  been 
the  most  fertile  contributors  to  this  department  of  sanc- 
tuary worship  during  this  period. 

The  late  bishop  Doane  (q.  v.),  of  New  Jersey,  wrote 
some  very  beautiful  hymns,  which  long  ago  passed  be- 
yond the  body  of  which  he  was  a champion  into  the  hym- 
nals of  other  churches.  His  evening  hymn  is  worthy  of 
comparison  even  with  that  of  good  bishop  Ken : Softly 
now  the  light  of  day.”  There  is  a trumpet-like  music 
in  his  majestic  lines  on  the  Banner  of  the  Cross  which 
reminds  us  of  Ileber  and  Milman  : “ Fling  out  the  ban- 
ner ! let  it  float,”  etc.  The  same  Church  has  also  given 
us  Dr.  W.  A.  Mtihlenbergh’s  well-known  hymn,  “ I would 
not  live  alway,”  and  other  delightful  verses  from  his  now 
patriarchal  muse.  Another  bishop,  Dr.  Arthur  Cleveland 
Coxe,  among  his  fine  Christian  ballads  and  poems,  has 
rendered  into  verse,  with  more  spirit  and  power  than  any 
other  English  writer,  those  words  of  Christ,  “ Behold,  I 
stand  at  the  door  and  knock.” 

To  the  late  Dr.  James  W.  Alexander  (q.  v.)  we  owe 
the  best  version  in  our  language  of  Gerhardt’s  imper- 
ishable hymn,  “ Oh  sacred  head ! now  wounded.”  One 
of  the  most  chaste  and  fervid  of  our  hymn-writers 
was  the  late  Dr.  George  W.  Bcthune  (q.  v.),  author  of 
“It  is  not  death  to  die,”  “Oh  Jesus,  when  I think 


of  thee,  thy  manger,  cross,  and  crown,”  and  many 
other  well-known  lyrics.  The  Rev.  Dr.  Alexander  R. 
Thompson,  of  the  Reformed  Church,  New  York,  has 
published  some  admirable  original  hymns  for  Christ- 
mas and  Easter,  and  very  spirited  translations  from  an- 
cient and  mediieval  hymns.  We  specify  only  his  ver- 
sion of  the  “Aurora  coelum  purpurit,”  which,  with  oth- 
ers from  his  pen,  are  given  in  full  in  ScliafTs  Christ  in 
Song.  Quite  in  another  line,  but  not  less  happy,  is  a 
new  hymn  by  the  Rev.  Hervey  D.  Ganse,  a popular 
clergyman  of  the  same  Church  in  New  York  City.  It 
is  the  story  of  Bart  imams,  so  sweetly  told  that  we  re- 
gret we  have  not  space  for  at  least  a part  of  it.  There 
are  no  more  delightful  hymns  in  the  language  than 
those  of  the  Rev.  Ray  Palmer,  D.D.,  a Congregational 
clergyman,  author  of  Hymns  of  my  holy  Hours,  Hymns 
and  sacred  Pieces,  and  many’-  saered  poems.  That  “ sc- 
lectest  and  most  perfect  of  our  modern  hymns,”  “My 
faith  looks  up  to  thee,”  etc.,  was  composed  in  1830.  It 
has  been  translated  into  Arabic,  Tamil,  Tahitian,  the 
Mahratta,  and  other  languages,  and  seems  destined  to 
follow  the  Cross  over  the  whole  world.  Among  his 
other  hymns  are  those  beginning  “Jesus,  these  eyes 
have  never  seen  that  radiant  form  of  thine,”  “Alone 
with  thee!  alone  with  thee!  O friend  divine,”  “O  Je- 
sus! sweet  the  tears  I shed,”  “Jesus!  thou  joy  of  lov- 
ing hearts,”  etc. 

The  Rev.  Russell  S.  Cook  (q.  v.)  wrote  and  sent  to 
Miss  Elliott,  the  author  of  “ Just  as  I am.  without  one 
plea,”  a counterpart  to  her  own  sweet  hymn,  so  beautiful 
and  complete  that  it  seems  almost  as  if  the  same  pen 
had  given  them  both  to  the  world : “Just  as  thou  art! 
without  one  trace,”  etc.  It  has  since  been  incorporated 
with  Sir  Roundell  Palmer’s  Booh  of  Praise  and  several 
American  hymn-books. 

It  would  be  inexcusable,  in  a summary  like  this,  to 
omit  a hearty  tribute  of  acknowledgment  to  the  female 
hymn-writers  of  our  country.  First  among  these,  Mrs. 
Sigourney,  'who  may  be  called  the  Hannah  More  of 
America,  has  an  established  place  among  these  honored 
authors,  although  most  of  her  poetry  was  written  in 
blank  verse,  or  in  metre  not  adapted  to  Church  music. 
Yet  her  anniversary  hymns  for  Siuiday-scliools  and  mis- 
sionary' meetings  have  been  very'  popular.  Her  verses 
are  full  of  a tender,  devotional  spirit,  and  expressed  in 
chaste  and  beautiful  language.  Mrs.  Harriet  Beecher 
Stowe,  in  some  of  her  Religious  Poems,  published  in 
1867,  lias  caught  the  spirit  of  the  inspired  word,  and 
rendered  its  utterances  into  verse  with  singular  felicity'. 
We  may  instance  the  fine  hymns  commencing  “ When 
winds  are  raging  in  the  upper  ocean,”  “Life’s  my'stery 
— deep,  restless  as  the  ocean,”  “ That  my'stic  word  of 
thine.  O sovereign  Lord,”  and  the  one  entitled  “ Still, 
still  with  thee.”  The  Cary  sisters,  Phoebe  and  Alice, 
have  added  a few  graceful  and  touching  hymns  to  our 
Lyra  Americana,  and  have  been  particularly  successful 
in  their  writing  for  the  young.  That  favorite  and  de- 
lightful hymn  (which  reminds  us  of  Cowper’s  sensitive 
strains),  “ I love  to  steal  a while  away  from  every'  cum- 
bering care,”  was  written  by  Mrs.  Phoebe  II.  Brown  after 
being  interrupted  while  at  prayer.  On  giving  up  her 
only'  son  to  preach  Christ  to  the  heathen,  she  wrote  that 
sweet  missionary  liy'mn  beginning 

“Go.  messenger  of  love,  and  bear 
Upon  thy  gentle  wing 
The  song  which  seraphs  love  to  hear, 

And  angels  joy  to  sing." 

Many  a revival  of  religion  has  been  sought  and  pro- 
moted in  the  use  of  her  familiar  strains, 

“ O Lord,  Thy  work  revive 
Iu  Zion’s  gloomy  hour.” 

These  are  but  specimens  of  a few  of  our  best  female 
hymnists.  Many  others  we  cannot  even  mention,  to 
whom  the  whole  Church  owes  a debt  of  gratitude  for 
“ psalms,  and  hymns,  and  spiritual  songs,”  in  which  they 
have  taught  her  to  “make  melody  unto  the  Lord.”  For 
additional  literature,  see  Psalmody.  (W.  J . R.  T.) 


IIYPAPANTE 


447 


IIYPERDULIA 


Hypapante.  See  Candlemas. 

Hypatia  of  Alexandria,  bom  in  the  latter  half 
of  the  4th  century,  was  the  daughter  of  Theon  the 
younger,  by  whom  she  was  instructed  in  mathematics 
and  philosophy,  and  professed,  like  her  father,  the  old 
heathen  doctrines,  of  which  she  was  one  of  the  most  el- 
oquent advocates.  So  eminent  did  she  become  in  the 
ancient  philosophy  that,  in  the  early  part  of  the  5th 
century,  she  publicly  lectured  on  Aristotle  and  Plato, 
both  at  Athens  and  Alexandria,  with  immense  success. 
Socrates  (Wells’s  translation,  1709,  of  the  Latin  of  Va- 
lcsius)  thus  narrates  her  history : “ There  was  a woman 
at  Alexandria  by  name  Hypatia.  She  was  daughter  to 
Theon  the  philosopher.  She  had  arrived  to  so  eminent 
a degree  of  learning  that  she  excelled  all  the  philoso- 
phers of  her  own  times,  and  succeeded  in  that  Platonic 
school  derived  from  Plotinus,  and  expounded  all  the 
precepts  of  philosophy  to  those  who  would  hear  her. 
Wherefore  all  persons  who  were  studious  about  philoso- 
phy flocked  to  her  from  all  parts.  By  reason  of  that 
eminent  confidence  and  readiness  of  expression  where- 
with she  had  accomplished  herself  by  her  learning,  she 
frequently  addressed  even  the  magistrates  with  a sin- 
gular modesty.  Nor  was  she  ashamed  of  appearing  in 
a public  assembly  of  men,  for  all  persons  revered  and 
admired  her  for  her  eximious  modesty.  Envy  armed 
itself  against  this  woman  at  that  time ; for  because  she 
had  frequent  conferences  with  Orestes  [the  prefect  of 
Alexandria],  for  this  reason  a calumny  was  framed 
against  her  among  the  Christian  populace,  as  if  she 
hindered  Orestes  from  coming  to  a reconciliation  with 
the  bishop.  Certain  persons  therefore,  of  fierce  and  over- 
hot minds,  who  were  headed  by  one  Peter,  a reader, 
conspired  against  the  woman,  and  observed  her  return- 
ing home  from  some  place ; and,  having  pulled  her  out 
of  her  chariot,  they  dragged  her  to  the  church  named 
Cfesareum,  where  they  stripped  her  and  murdered  her. 
And  when  they  had  tom  her  piecemeal,  they  carried  all 
her  members  to  a place  called  Cinaron,  and  consumed 
them  with  fire.  This  fact  bronght  no  small  disgrace 
upon  Cyrillus  and  the  Alexandrian  Church”  (Hist.  Ec- 
cles.  bk.  vii,  c.  15).  The  death  of  Hypatia  occurred  in 
415.  Suidas  ('IVana),  iii,  533,  puts  the  guilt  of  Hy- 
patia’s death  more  directly  upon  Cyril ; but  his  account 
is  by  the  best  authorities,  Gibbon  of  course  excepted, 
not  thought  to  be  trustworthy  (comp.  Schaff,  Ch.  Hist. 
iii,  943).  There  is  a spurions  epistle  attributed  to  Hy- 
patia, addressed  to  Cyril,  in  favor  of  Nostorius  (Baluze, 
Concilia , i,  216).  Tolaml  wrote  a sketch  of  Hypatia 
(Lond.  1730,  8vo),  and  Kingsley  has  recently  made  her 
story  the  subject  of  a novel  (“Hypatia”).  See  Cave, 
Hist.  Lit.  anno  415;  Wernsdorf,  Hiss.  A cad.  de  Hypatia 
(1747):  English  Cyclopaedia;  Menage,  Hist.  Mul.  Philo- 
soph.  p.  52 ; Munch,  Hypatia,  in  his  Yermischt.  Schrifen 
(Ludwigsb.  1828),  vol.  i;  Schaff,  Ch.  History,  ii,  67 ; Gib- 
bon, Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire,  iv,  502  sq. 

Hypatius  of  Gangra,  a distinguished  member  of 
the  Council  of  Nice,  of  whose  life  but  little  is  known, 
wras  stoned  to  death  [March  31,  327,  in  a pass  near  Gan- 
gra, by  a gang  of  Novatian  ruffians,  in  all  probability  on 
account  of  the  opposition  which  he  had  manifested  to- 
wards the  Novatians  (q.  v.)  at  the  council.  See  Stan- 
ley, History  of  the  Eastern  Church,  p.  266. 

Hyperbole.  Any  one  who  carefully  examines  the 
Bible  must  be  surprised  at  the  very  few  hyperbolic  ex- 
pressions which  it  contains,  considering  that  it  is  an 
Oriental  book.  In  Eastern  Asia  the  tone  of  composi- 
tion is  pitched  so  high  as  to  be  scarcely  intelligible  to 
the  sober  intellect  of  Europe,  while  in  Western  Asia  a 
medium  seems  to  have  been  struck  between  the  ultra- 
extravagance of  the  far  East  and  the  frigid  exactness 
of  the  far  West.  But,  even  regarded  as  a book  of  West- 
ern Asia,  the  Bible  is,  as  compared  with  almost  any 
other  Western  Asiatic  book,  so  singidarly  free  from  hy- 
perbolic expressions  as  might  well  excite  our  surprise, 
did  not  our  knowledge  of  its  divine  origin  permit  us  to 


suppose  that  even  the  style  and  mode  of  expression  of 
the  writers  were  so  far  controlled  as  to  exclude  from 
their  writings  what,  in  other  ages  and  countries,  might 
excite  pain  and  offence,  and  prove  an  obstacle  to  the 
reception  of  divine  truth.  See  Inspiration.  Nor  is 
it  to  be  said  that  the  usage  of  hyperbole  is  of  modem 
growth.  We  find  it  in  the  oldest  Eastern  writings 
which  now  exist;  and  the  earlier  Rabbinical  writings 
attest  that,  in  times  approaching  near  to  those  in  which 
the  writers  of  the  New  Testament  flourished,  the  Jew- 
ish imagination  had  run  riot  in  this  direction,  and  has 
left  hyperboles  as  frequent  and  outrageous  as  any  which 
Persia  or  India  can  produce.  See  Talmud. 

The  strongest  hyperbole  in  all  Scripture  is  that  with 
which  the  Gospel  of  John  concludes:  “There  are  also 
many  other  things  which  Jesus  did,  the  which,  if  they 
should  be  written  every  one,  I suppose  that  the  world 
itself  could  not  contain  all  the  books  that  should  be 
written.”  This  has  so  much  pained  many  commenta- 
tors that  they  have  been  disposed  to  regard  it  as  an  un- 
authorized addition  to  the  sacred  text,  and  to  reject  it 
accordingly — a process  always  dangerous,  and  not  to  be 
adopted  but  on  such  overwhelming  authority  of  collated 
manuscripts  as  does  not  exist  in  the  present  case.  Nor 
is  it  necessary,  for  as  a hyperbole  it  may  be  illustrated 
by  many  examples  in  sacred  and  profane  authors.  In 
Numb,  xiii,  33,  the  spies  who  had  returned  from  search- 
ing the  land  of  Canaan  say  that  they  saw  giants  there 
of  such  a prodigious  size  that  they  were  in  their  own 
sight  but  as  grasshoppers.  In  Deut.  i,  28,  cities  with 
high  walls  about  them  are  said  to  be  “walled  up  to 
heaven.”  In  Dan.  iv,  7,  mention  is  made  of  a tree  where- 
of “the  height  reached  unto  heaven,  and  the  sight 
thereof  unto  the  end  of  all  the  earth:”  and  the  author 
of  Ecclesiasticus  (xlvii,  15),  speaking  of  Solomon’s  wis- 
dom, says,  “Thy  sold  covered  the  whole  earth,  and  thou 
filledst  it  with  parables.”  In  Josephus  (A?it.  xiv,  22) 
God  is  mentioned  as  promising  to  Jacob  that  he  would 
give  the  land  of  Canaan  to  him  and  his  seed;  and  then 
it  is  added,  “ they  shall  fill  the  whole  sea  and  land  which 
the  sun  shines  upon.”  Wetstein,  in  his  note  on  the 
text  in  John,  and  Basnage,  in  his  Jlistoire  des  Juifs  (iii, 
1-9;  v,  7),  have  cited  from  the  aucient  Rabbinical  writ- 
ers such  passages  as  the  following:  “ If  all  the  seas  were 
ink,  and  -every  reed  was  a pen,  and  the  whole  heaven 
and  earth  were  parchment,  and  all  the  sons  of  men  were 
writers,  they  would  not  be  sufficient  to  write  all  the  les- 
sons which  Jochanan  composed;”  and  concerning  one 
Eliezer,  it  is  said  that  “ if  the  heavens  were  parchment, 
and  all  the  sons  of  men  writers,  and  all  the  trees  of  the 
forest  pens,  they  would  not  be  sufficient  for  writing  all 
the  wisdom  which  he  was  possessed  of.”  Homer,  who, 
if  not  born  in  Asia  Minor,  had  undoubtedly  lived  there, 
has  sometimes  followed  the  hyperbolic  manner  of  speak- 
ing which  prevailed  so  much  in  the  East:  thus,  in  the 
Iliad  (xx,246, 247),  he  makes  ..Eneas  say  to  Achilles,  “Let 
us  have  done  with  reproaching  one  another,  for  we  may 
throw  out  so  many  reproachful  words  on  one  another 
that  a ship  of  a hundred  oars  would  not  be  able  to  carry 
the  load.”  Few  instances  of  this  are  to  be  found  in  Oc- 
cidental writers ; yet  it  is  observed  that  Cicero  (Phil,  ii, 
44)  has  “ Pnesertim  quum  illi  earn  gloriam  consecnti 
sint,  quae  vix  coelo  capi  posse  videatur,”  and  that  Livy 
(vii,  25)  says,  “ life  vires  populi  Romani,  quas  vix  tcr- 
rarum  capit  orbis.”  See  bishop  Pearce’s  Commentary 
on  the  four  Evangelists,  1777,  etc.  Modern  examples  of 
equal  hyperbole  may  be  found  cited  in  almost  any  work 
on  rhetoric.-*-Kitto. 

Hypercalvinism.  See  Calvinism  ; Ultra-Cal- 
vinism. 

Hyperdulia  (vi rip,  above;  cov\ia,  veorship,  ser- 
vice),  the  worship  of  the  Virgin  Man"  in  the  Roman 
Church.  The  Romanists  speak  of  three  kinds  of  adora- 
tion, namely,  latria,  hyperdulia,  and  dulia.  “ The  ado- 
ration of  latria,”  they  say,  “is  that  which  is  due  to  God 
alone,  and  is  given  on  account  of  his  supremacy ; hyper- 
dulia is  worship  paid  to  the  Virgin  on  account  of  what 


HYPERIUS 


448 


HYPOCRISY 


the  Papists  call  the  maternity  of  God,  and  other  emi- 
nent gifts,  and  her  supereminent  sanctity;  dulia  is  wor- 
ship paid  to  saints  on  account  of  their  sanctity.”  These 
distinctions  are  too  refined  for  the  common  people;  and 
it  is  greatly  to  be  feared  that  multitudes  worship  the 
Virgin  instead  of  God,  or  take  her  as  a mediator  instead 
of  Christ.  The  prayer-books  of  the  Roman  Church  are 
not  free  from  the  charge  of  encouraging  a belief  in  the 
mediation  of  Mary.  A book  in  common  use,  called  The 
Sacred  Heart  of  Jesus  and  of  Mary,  which  is  published 
with  an  indult  of  pope  Pius  in  favor  of  its  use,  contains 
the  following  passages : “ Come,  then,  hardened  and  in- 
veterate sinner,  how  great  soever  your  crimes  may  be, 
come  and  behold.  Mary  stretches  out  her  hand,  opens 
her  breast  to  receive  you.  Thouyh  insensible  to  the  great 
concerns  of  your  salvation,  though  unfortunately  proof 
against  the  most  engaging  invitations  and  inspirations  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  fling  yourself  at  the  feet  of  this  power- 
ful advocate.”  Again  (p.  25G) : “ Rejoice,  O most  glo- 
rious Virgin,  such  is  thy  favor  with  God,  such  the  power 
of  thv  intercession,  that  the  whole  treasury  of  heaven 
is  open  to  thee  and  at  thy  disposal.  When  thou  art 
pleased  to  intercede  in  favor  of  a sinner  his  case  is  in 
sure  hands;  there  is  no  danger  of  refusal  on  the  part  of 
Heaven  when  thy  mediation  appears  in  his  behalf.” 
“ Thou  art  the  great  mediatrix  between  God  and  man, 
obtaining  for  sinners  all  they  can  ask  and  demand  of 
the  blessed  Trinity.”  Another  book  in  common  use, 
The  Glories  of  Mary,  Mother  of  God,  prepared  by  Li- 
guori  (q.  v.),  is  full  of  similar  passages.  We  extract  only 
the  following  prayer:  “ O holy  Virgin  ! deign  to  man- 
ifest your  generosity  towards  me,  a miserable  sinner. 
If  you  grant  me  your  aid,  what  can  I fear  ? No,  I shall 
no  longer  apprehend  either  rnv  sins,  since  you  can  re- 
pair them;  or  the  devils,  since  you  are  more  power  fid 
than  hell;  or  your  Son,  justly  irritated,  since  one  word 
from  you  will  appease  him.  I shall  only  fear  myself, 
and  that,  forgetting  to  invoke  you,  I may  be  lost.  But 
this  will  not  be  the  case.  I promise  you  to-day  to  re- 
cur to  you  in  all  ray  wants,  and  that,  during  life  and  at 
my  death,  your  name  and  remembrance  shall  be  the  de- 
light of  my  soul.  Amen.”  See  Cnmming  aud  French, 
1 rotestant  Discussion  ("London,  1850,  12nio),  p.  288  sq. ; 
Ferraris,  Prompta  Bibliotheca,  Yenerat . Sanct.  § 34-39; 
Elliott,  Delineation  of  Romanism,  bk.  iv,  ch.  iv.  See 
Mahiolatry. 

Hyperius,  Andrew  Gerhard,  an  eminent  Protes- 
tant theologian  of  the  lGth  century,  was  bom  at  Ypres, 
Belgium,  May  1G,  151 1.  llis  family  name  was  Gerhard, 
but  he  assumed  the  name  Hyperius  from  his  birthplace. 
Ilis  father  directed  his  first  studies,  after  which  Hype- 
rins attended  the  University  of  Paris  during  the  years 
1528-35.  After  completing  his  studies  he  made  a short 
stay  at  Louvain,  then  travelled  through  the  Nether- 
lands, and  visited  Germany.  On  liis  return  he  was  de- 
prived of  a benefice  which  had  been  obtained  for  him, 
on  the  ground  that  he  had  embraced  the  doctrines  of 
the  Reformation.  He  went  to  England,  where,  he  re- 
mained four  years  with  the  son  of  William  Mountjov,  a 
friend  of  Erasmus,  studying  at  the  universities  of  Ox- 
ford and  Cambridge.  The  persecutions  directed  against 
the  Protestants  after  Cromwell's  death  compelled  him, 
in  1541,  to  leave  England,  and  he  purposed  going  to 
Strasburg,  attracted  by  the  reputation  of  Buccr;  but  his 
friend  Geldenhauer,  professor  of  theology  at  Marburg, 
persuaded  him  to  remain  in  the  latter  city,  and  he  suc- 
ceeded his  friend  in  1542  as  professor.  He  died  at  Mar- 
burg Feb.  1,  15G4.  To  profound  and  extensive  learning 
Hyperius  joined  great  intellectual  powers,  and  a remark- 
ably mild,  yet  straightforward  disposition.  Greatly  in 
advance  of  his  times  as  a scholar,  he  held  deep  and  cor- 
rect views  on  the  system  with  which  theological  re- 
searches and  studies  should  be  conducted  in  striking 
contrast  with  the  arbitrary  proceedings  of  the  exegetes 
of  the  16th  century,  as  well  as  the  scholastic  theories  of 
contemporary  theologians.  His  views  have  become  the 
basis  of  modem  scientific  theology.  He  had  also  a 


clearer  and  more  practical  notion  of  preaching  than  the 
other  preachers  of  his  time,  who,  instead  of  expounding 
Christian  doctrines  to  their  hearers  in  view  of  edifying 
them,  brought  abstract  discussions  or  irritating  contro- 
versies into  the  pulpit.  Hyperius  wrote  De  formandis 
Concionibus  sacris,  sen  de  interpretatione  Scripturarum 
populari,  Libri  ii  (Dort,  1555, 8vo;  latest  ed.,  augment- 
ed, and  containing  a biography  of  the  author,  Halle, 
1781, 8vo).  It  is  the  first  complete  work  on  Homiletics, 
and  one  of  the  best : — De  theologo,  seu  de  ratione  studii 
theologici,Lib.iv  (Basle,155G,8vo;  often  reprinted):  this 
is  a work  of  great  merit,  which  may  have  had  the  most 
favorable  effect  on  theological  study,  had  not  the  large- 
ness of  views  and  the  Zuinglian  opinion  of  the  author 
in  regard  to  the  Eucharist  rendered  it  suspicious  in  the 
eyes  of  the  orthodox  Lutheran  party.  Laurentius  Villa- 
vincentius,  an  Augustinian  monk  of  Xeres,  in  Andalusia, 
made  great  use  of  this  as  well  as  of  the  preceding  work, 
or,  rather,  caused  them  to  be  reprinted  almost  word  for 
word,  as  his  own  production,  with  the  exception  of  pas- 
sages too  favorable  to  Protestantism,  in  a work  he  pub- 
lished at  Antwerp  in  1565,  and  the  plagiarism  was  not 
detected  until  half  a century  later: — Elementa  Christi- 
anas religionis  (Basle,  15G3,  8vo) : — Topica  theologica 
(Wittemb.  1565,  8vo;  Basle,  1573,  8vo)  : — Methodi  The- 
ologian, sire  prwcipuorum  Christiance  religionis  locorum 
communium,  Libri  Hi  (Basle,  1566,  1568,  8vo).  This 
work  was  to  have  had  three  more  parts,  but  it  was  left 
incomplete: — Opuscula  Theologica  varia  (Basle,  1570,  2 
vols.  8vo).  His  exegetical  works  are  among  the  most 
valuable  productions  in  that  department  by  the  Reform- 
ers, and  were  frequently  used  by  Bloomfield  in  his  uotes 
on  the  New  Testament.  His  most  important  work  in 
this  department,  a Commentary  on  the  Epistles  of  Paul 
and  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  ( Comment . in  Epistolas  ad 
Timoth.,  Titum,  et  Philem.  1582;  Comment,  in  Pauli 
Epistolas,  1583;  Comment,  in  Epist.  ad  Ilebraos,  1585), 
was  published  after  his  death  by  Mvlius  (Zurich,  1582-8, 
4 vols.  folio),  and  under  the  care  of  J.  Andreas  Schmidt 
(Helmstadt,  1704,  8vo).  In  it  ‘‘Hyperius  pursues  the 
grammatico-historical  method  of  interpretation,  exam- 
ining the  meaning  of  the  words,  carefully  tracing  the 
connection  of  the  passage,  taking  note  of  the  analogy 
of  Scripture,  aud  so  arriving  at  the  true  sense  of  the 
place.  Not  until  he  has  thus  done  justice  to  the  exe- 
gesis does  he  proceed  to  the  dogmatical  or  practical  use 
of  the  passage.  He  also  frequently  gives  citations  from 
the  fathers  to  show  the  agreement  of  his  conclusions 
with  the  understanding  of  the  ancient  Church”  (Kitto). 
A collection  of  small  pamphlets  had  been  previously 
published  separately;  among  them,  Sacra;  Script uia: 
Lectione  et  Meditatione  (Basle,  1581,  8vo).  See  Bois- 
sard,  leones  Yirorum  lllustrium,  pars  iii ; Meleli.  Adam, 
Viter  Germanorum  Theologorum ; Bavle,  Diet.  Hist.;  ,1. 
M.  Schrockh,  Lebensbesch.  beriihmt.  Gelehrten,  vol.  5,  and 
Kirchengesch.  s.  d.  Ref.  vol.  v;  Hoefer,  Xour.  Biog.  Gen. 
xxv,  71 ; Mercersb.  Rev.  1857,  p.  271  sq. ; Ch.  Monthly, 
June,  1866;  M'Crie,  Reform,  in  Spain , p.  382;  llauck, 
Jahrb.  d.  Theol.  ii,  255.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Hypocrisy  (uttokoioiq  ; but  in  James  v,  12,  two 
words,  i>7rv  ta/ioiv,  as  the  A.  V.  justly)  is  the  name  for 
the  successful  or  unsuccessful  endeavor  of  a person  to 
impart  to  others,  by  the  expression  of  his  features  or 
gestures,  by  his  outward  actions,  and,  in  fine,  by  his  whole 
appearance,  a favorable  opinion  of  his  principles,  his 
good  intentions,  love,  unselfishness,  truthfulness,  and 
conscientiousness,  while  hi  reality  these  qualities  are 
wanting  in  him.  It  is,  therefore,  a pecidiar  kind  of 
untruthfuhiess,  which  has  its  definite  aims  and  means. 
It  is  precisely  because  these  aims  refer  to  the  moral 
qualifications  of  the  subject,  because  he  speaks  and  acts 
as  if  an  honest  man,  that  hypocrisy  has  found  room  and 
opportunity  in  soeial  life,  in  commerce  and  industry,  in 
politics,  and,  above  all,  in  the  field  of  revealed  religion. 
This  may  appear  paradoxical,  because  this,  as  well  as 
I the  religion  of  the  old  covenant,  places  man  before  the 
face  of  an  almighty  Being  who  sees  the  heart,  and  who 


HYPOCRISY 


449 


HYPOCRITE 


penetrates  human  thought  even  from  its  very  beginning; 
who  perceives  clearly  its  development  and  ripening;  so 
that  the  hypocrite,  even  if  he  should  succeed  in  deceiv- 
ing men,  can  certainly  have  no  benefit  from  his  acts  in 
the  end.  On  the  other  hand,  because  religion  consists 
not  entirely  in  the  performance  of  outward  actions,  but 
makes  the  worth  of  the  person  dependent  on  the  right- 
eous state  of  his  heart  and  mind,  it  creates  the  greater 
desire  in  him  to  acquire  the  reputation  of  really  having 
these  qualities;  and  because  these  qualities,  though  they 
are  of  a purely  spiritual  nature,  yet  can  only  be  mani- 
fested by  outward  acts,  which,  since  they  are  material, 
strike  the  eye  of  the  world,  and  may  be  enacted  without 
the  possession  of  the  genuine  mental  and  moral  state,  it 
results  that  there  is  here  such  a wide  field  for  hypo- 
critical actions.  We  infer,  therefore,  from  what  we 
have  said,  that  there  is  less  opportunity  for  hypocrisy 
in  heathenism  than  in  Judaism;  in  Catholicism  than 
in  Protestantism.  For  wherever  the  principal  weight 
is  laid  on  the  outward  action,  on  the  opus  operatum, 
there  -#me  experiences  far  less  the  inclination  to  cover 
the  inconsistency  of  the  inner  world  by  the  outer  world; 
while,  on  the  other  hand,  where  every  thing  depends 
on  the  inward  state,  and  where,  with  the  mere  enact- 
ment of  outward  ceremony,  God  and  conscience  can- 
not be  appeased,  there  originates  in  the  unregenerate 
man  the  temptation  to  do  what  may  give  him  at  least 
the  semblance  of  a quality  which  he  really  does  not  pos- 
sess. When  a frivolous,  reckless  fellow  kneels  at  the 
Catholic  altar  to  perform  by  feature  and  gesture  his  de- 
votions, no  one  would  think  of  accusing  him  of  hypoc- 
risy ; while  a Protestant,  in  a similar  case,  could  not  es- 
cape this  judgment.  Still,  this  does  not  fully  solve  the 
paradox  how  the  hypocrite  can  hope  to  carry  on  his 
false  game,  while  he  knows  very  well  that  before  the 
God  of  truth  no  one  can  pass  for  righteous  who  possess- 
es simply  the  semblance  of  righteousness,  but  does  not 
connect  therewith  the  belief  in  its  power.  It  must  here 
be  remembered  that,  in  the  one  case,  the  person  endeav- 
ors to  acquire  for  himself,  in  the  community  to  which  he 
belongs,  the  epithet  of  a pious  man;  and,  if  he  is  satis- 
fied herewith,  then,  in  regard  to  his  future  state,  in  view 
of  that  day  which  will  bring  every  thing  to  light,  he  is 
either  thoughtless  and  careless,  or  else  totally  unbeliev- 
ing. When  his  earthly  scene  has  ended,  the  curtain 
drops  for  him,  and  all  is  over.  But  in  another  case  the 
person  is  animated  by  the  hope  that,  in  virtue  of  those 
outward  acts  by  which  he  thinks  to  do  good,  his  pray- 
ing, almsgiving,  etc.,  he  may  prevail  before  God ; this  is 
the  true  Phariseeism,  which  dims  the  faculty  of  know- 
ing God,  and  not  only  deceives  men,  but  counterfeits 
truth  itself,  and  thereby  cheats  itself  worst  of  all.  A 
special  means  of  detecting  the  real  hypocrite  is  his  un- 
merciful judgment  over  others.  This  has  its  ground  in 
the  fact  that  by  such  expressions  he  not  only  seeks  to 
confirm  his  own  standing,  but  it  is  also  a self-deceit  into 
which  he  falls;  the  more  he  finds  to  blame  in  others, 
the  more  confident  he  grows  of  his  own  worth,  and  the 
more  easily  he  appeases  his  conscience  in  regard  to  the 
inconsistency  of  his  moral  state  with  his  actions,  and  the 
incongruity  of  his  secret  with  his  open  ways.  Ethics 
finds  among  the  different  gradations  of  sin  a certain 
state  of  hypocrisy  which  is  far  worse  than  absolute  sub- 
jection to  sin,  inasmuch  as  in  the  latter  state  there  may 
exist  at  least  the  eaniest  desire  in  the  individual  to  rid 
himself  of  his  faults,  although  he  no  longer  possesses  the 
power  to  do  so;  the  hypocrite,  on  the  other  hand,  is 
quite  contented  with  himself,  and  has  no  desire  whatev- 
er to  repent  of  the  sin  so  deeply  lodged  in  his  heart,  but 
merely  endeavors  to  hide  it  from  God  and  men,  in  order 
to  be  able  to  gratify  his  sinful  inclinations  the  more  se- 
curely under  the  cover  of  an  assumed  sanctity.  In  cer- 
tain respects  the  frivolous  sinner  is  far  better  than  the 
hypocrite,  inasmuch  as  the  former  has  at  least  no  desire 
to  deceive  any  one  about  his  condition,  and  does  not 
present  himself  to  the  world  otherwise  than  he  really  is. 
This  formal  truthfulness  in  the  open  sinner,  however,  is 
IV.— F f 


counterbalanced  by  the  fact  that  the  hypocrite  recog- 
nises at  least  a divine  law  and  judgment;  he  is  still 
alive  to  the  consciousness  of  the  incongruity  of  his  state 
of  mind  and  heart  with  this  divine  law ; but  yet  hypoc- 
risy, as  a permanent  untruthfulness,  as  a systematic  de- 
ceit, as  a life  in  dissimulation,  must  gradually  annihilate 
all  sense  of  its  own  condition.  Thus,  in  the  issue,  pub- 
licans and  harlots  are  nearer  to  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
than  Pharisees.  — Herzog,  Real-Encyldop.  xix,  G43  gq. 
See  Hypocrite. 

Hypocrite  (Greek  viroicpiriyS)  signifies  one  who 
feigns  to  be  what  he  is  not ; who  puts  on  a false  person, 
like  actors  in  tragedies  and  comedies.  It  is  generally 
applied  to  those  who  assume  appearances  of  a virtue 
without  possessing  it  in  reality.  Our  Saviour  accused 
the  Pharisees  of  hypocrisy.  Hypocrisy  is  vain  and  fool- 
ish, and,  though  intended  to  cheat  others,  is,  in  truth,  de- 
ceiving ourselves.  No  man  would  flatter  or  dissemble 
if  he  thought  that  he  was  seen  and  discovered.  All  his 
hypocrisy,  however,  is  open  to  the  eye  of  God,  from 
whom  nothing  can  be  hid.  The  ways  of  man  are  before 
the  eyes  of  the  Lord,  and  he  seeth  all  his  doings ; there 
is  no  darkness  nor  shadow  of  death  where  the  workers 
of  iniquity  may  hide  themselves.  Whoever  dissembles, 
and  seems  to  be  what  he  is  not,  thinks  that  he  ought  to 
possess  such  a quality  as  he  pretends  to;  for  to  counter- 
feit and  dissemble  is  to  assume  the  appearance  of  some 
real  excellence.  But  it  is  best  for  a man  to  be  in  reality 
what  he  would  seem  to  be.  It  is  difficult  to  personate 
and  act  a false  part  long,  because,  where  truth  does 
not  exist,  nature  will  endeavor  to  return,  and  make  a 
discover}'.  Truth  carries  its  own  light  and  evidence 
with  it,  and  not  only  commends  us  to  every  man’s  con- 
science, but  to  God,  the  searcher  of  our  hearts.  Hence 
sincerity  is  the  truest  wisdom,  for  integrity  has  many 
advantages  over  all  the  artful  ways  of  dissimulation  and 
deceit.  On  the  contrary,  a dissembler  must  be  always 
upon  his  guard,  lest  he  contradict  his  own  pretences, 
lie  acts  an  unnatural  part,  and  puts  a continual  force 
and  restraint  upon  himself.  Truth  always  lies  upper- 
most, and  will  be  apt  to  make  its  appearance;  but  he 
who  acts  sincerely  has  an  easy  task,  and  needs  not  invent 
pretences  before,  or  excuses  after,  for  what  he  says  or 
does.  Insincerity  is  difficult  to  manage;  for  a liar  will 
be  apt  to  contradict  at  one  time  what  he  said  at  another. 
Truth  is  always  consistent  with  itself,  needs  nothing  to 
assist  it,  and  is  always  near  at  hand ; but  a lie  is  troub- 
lesome ; it  sets  a man’s  invention  upon  the  rack,  and  is 
frequently  the  occasion  of  many  more.  Truth  and  sin- 
cerity in  our  ■words  and  actions  will  carry  ns  through 
the  world,  when  all  the  arts  of  cunning  and  deceit  shall 
fail  and  deceive  us.  In  the  day  when  God  shall  judge 
the  secrets  of  men  by  Jesus  Christ,  plainness  and  sinceri- 
ty will  appear  the  most  perfect  beauty;  the  craftiness  of 
men,  who  lie  in  wait  to  deceive,  will  be  stripped  of  all 
its  colors ; all  specious  pretences,  all  the  methods  of  de- 
ceit, will  then  be  disclosed  before  men  and  angels,  and  no 
artifice  to  conceal  the  deformity  of  iniquity  can  there 
take  place.  Then  the  ill-designing  men  of  this  world 
shall  with  shame  be  convinced  that  the  upright  simplic- 
ity which  they  despised  was  the  truest  wisdom,  and  that 
those  dissembling  and  dishonest  arts  which  they  so  high- 
ly esteemed  were  in  reality  the  greatest  folly. 

Hypocrites  have  been  divided  into  four  sorts:  I.  The 
worldly  hypocrite,  who  makes  a profession  of  religion, 
and  pretends  to  be  religious  merely  from  worldly  con- 
siderations (Matt,  xxiii,  5) ; 2.  The  legal  hypocrite,  who 
relinquishes  his  vicious  practices  in  order  thereby  to 
merit  heaven,  while  at  the  same  time  he  has  no  real  love 
to  God  (Rom.  x,  3) ; 3.  The  evangelical  hypocrite,  whose 
religion  is  nothing  more  than  a bare  conviction  of  sin  ; 
who  rejoices  under  the  idea  that  Christ  died  for  him, 
and  yet  has  no  desire  to  live  a holy  life  (Matt,  xiii,  20 ; 

2 Pet.  ii,  20) ; 4.  The  enthusiastic  hypocrite,  who  has  an 
imaginary  sight  of  his  sin  and  of  Christ ; talks  of  re- 
markable impulses  and  high  feelings;  and  thinks  him- 
self very  wise  and  good  while  he  lives  in  the  most  scan- 


450 


HYRCAXUS 


HYPONOIA 


dalous  practices  (Matt.xiii.39;  2 Cor.  xi,  14).— Robinson,  | 
Tkeol.  Dictionary ; Buck,  Theol.  Dictionary  ; Warner,  i 
System  of  Morality,  iii,323;  Grove,  Moral  Philosophy,  j 
ii.253;  Gilfilla n,  Essays  on  Hypocrisy  (1825);  Ellis,  SelJ- 
Deceiver  discovered  (1731);  Edwards,  11  orks  (see  Index). 
See  Hypocrisy. 

Hyponoia  (uirovoia,  under  sense),  a term  applied  to 
the  hidden  meuniny  supposed  by  some  to  underlie  the  lan- 
guage of  Scripture.  If  by  this  is  understood  a significa- 
tion totally  different  from  the  plain  statements,  the  the- 
ory is  to  be  condemned  as  savoring  of  mysticism  (q.  v.); 
but  if  it  is  only  intended  to  designate  the  collateral  and 
ulterior  application  of  language  which  has  likewise  a 
more  obvious  or  literal  import,  it  may  be  received  to  a 
limited  degree.  See  Double  Sense.  The  Scriptures 
themselves  authorize  such  a view  of  the  deeper  signifi- 
cance of  Holy  AVrit,  especially  of  prophecies,  which  nec- 
essarily await  their  fulfilment  in  order  to  their  complete 
elucidation  (1  Pet.  i,  II);  and  the  apostle  John  accord- 
ingly invites  his  readers  to  the  close  examination  of  his 
symbols,  under  which,  for  prudential  considerations,  was 
couched  a somewhat  enigmatical  allusion  (Kev.xiii,  18). 
See  Interpretation.  To  infer  from  this,  however, 
that  the  sacred  writers  were  not  themselves  aware  of 
the  meaning  of  what  they  uttered  or  penned  is  to  take 
an  unworthy  and  false  view  of  their  intelligent  instru- 
mentality (Stier,  Words  of  Jesus,  i,  432  sq.,  Am.  ed.).  See 
Inspiration. 

Hypopsalma.  See  Acrostic. 

Hypostasis  (from  inru, under, andiorq/ui, to  stand; 
hence  subsistence),  a term  used  in  theology  to  signify 
person.  Thus  the  orthodox  hold  that  there  is  but  oue 
nature  or  essence  in  God, but  three  hypostases  or  persons. 
This  term  is  of  very  ancient  use  in  the  Church.  Cyril, 
in  a letter  to  Nest  onus,  employs  it  instead  of  ttpooojttov, 
person,  which  did  not  appear  to  him  sufficiently  expres- 
sive. The  term  occasioned  great  dissensions,  both  among 
the  Greeks  and  Latins.  In  the  Council  of  Niciea,  hypos- 
tasis was  defined  to  mean  essence  or  substance,  so  that 
it  was  heresy  to  say  that  Christ  was  of  a different  hypos- 
tasis from  his  Father.  Custom,  however,  altered  its 
meaning.  In  the  necessity  they  were  under  of  express- 
ing themselves  strongly  against  the  Sabellians,  the 
Greeks  used  the  word  hypostasis,  the  Latins  jicrsona, 
which  proved  a source  of  great  disagreement.  The  bar- 
renness of  the  Latin  language  allowed  them  only  one 
word  by  which  to  translate  the  two  Greek  ones  ouaia 
and  vTrooTaotr,  and  thus  prevented  them  from  distin- 
guishing essence  from  hypostasis.  An  end  was  put  to 
these  disputes  by  a synod  held  in  Alexandria  about  A.D. 
362,  at  which  Athanasius  assisted,  when  it  was  deter- 
mined to  be  synonymous  with  TTpoowirov.  After  this 
time  the  Latins  made  no  great  scruple  in  saying  tres 
hypostases,  or  the  Greeks  three  persons.— Farrar.  See 
Trinity;  IIomousiax. 

Hypostatical  Union,  the  subsistence  (virooTamc) 
of  two  natures  in  one  person,  in  Christ.  "While  the  reali- 
ty of  such  a union  is  established  by  the  Scriptures,  and  is 
on  that  account  maintained  by  our  Church  (see  2d  Arti- 
cle of  lieligion,  “ So  that  two  whole  and  perfect  natures,” 
etc.),  it  is  to  be  lamented  that  many  intricate  and  fruit- 
less metaphysical  questions  have  been  debated  among 
different  sects  of  Christians  as  to  the  divine  nature  of 
our  Lord,  and  the  manner  of  the  union  between  the  Deity 
and  a man— the  parties  engaged  in  these  questions  being 
too  often  hurried  into  presumptuous  as  well  as  unprofit- 
able speculations — on  points  as  far  beyond  the  reach  of 
the  human  intellect  as  colors  to  a man  bom  blind ; and 
forgetting  that  the  union  of  the  soul  and  body  of  any 
one  among  us  can  neither  be  explained  nor  comprehend- 
ed by  himself  or  any  other,  and  appears  the  more  mys- 
terious the  more  we  reflect  upon  it  (Eden).  See  Trin- 
ity; Christ,  Person  ok;  Monopiiy sites;  Nestori- 
axs. 

Hypothetical  Baptism  is  a phrase  sometimes 
used  to  denote,  in  the  Church  of  England,  a baptism  ad- 


ministered to  a child  of  whom  it  is  uncertain  whether  it 
has  already  been  baptized  or  not.  The  rubric  states 
that  “if  they  who  bring  the  infant  to  the  church  do 
make  such  uncertain  answers  to  the  priest’s  questions 
as  that  it  cannot  appear  that  the  child  was  baptized 
with  water  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son, 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,”  then  the  priest,  on  performing 
the  baptism, is  to  use  this  form  of  words,  viz.:  “If  thou 

art  not  already  baptized,  N , I baptize  thee  iu  the 

name,”  etc. — Hook,  Church  Dictionary. 

Hypothetical  Universalism.  SeellYroTHET- 

ICI. 

Hypothetici,  a name  given  to  the  followers  (French 
Protestants)  of  Amyrant,  who,  while  they  asserted  a gra- 
tia universalis,  none  the  less  ought  not  to  be  classed  with 
modern  Universalists,  as  they  simply  taught  that  God 
desires  the  happiness  of  all  men , provided  they  will  receive 
his  mercy  in  faith,  and  that  none  can  obtain  salvation 
without  faith  in  Christ.  See  Amyraut;  Cajieron; 
Universalism. 

Hypsistarians  (worshippers  of  the  Stag  vipiffTog, 
or  “Most  High  God,”  as  such),  a sect  mentioned  by 
Gregor}7  of  Nazianzum,  whose  father  was  a member  of 
it  before  his  conversion  to  Christianity.  They  are  rep- 
resented as  combining  in  their  doctrines  the  elements 
of  Judaism  and  paganism.  They  assigned  a place  to 
fire  and  light  in  their  -worship,  but  rejected  circumcision 
and  the  worship  of  images;  they  kept  the  Sabbath, 
and  abstained  from  the  eating  of  certain  kinds  of  meats. 
Gregory  of  Nyssa  also  mentions  the  Ilvpsistarii,  to 
whom  he  gives  the  surname  'Yipionarci.  He  says 
that,  like  the  Christians,  they  acknowledge  only  one 
God,  whom  they  call  i’ipKTTOU  or  7 -avroxpdropa,  but 
are  distinguished  from  them  in  not  considering  him  as 
Father.  All  that  subsequent  writers  have  said  of  this 
sect  is  derived  from  the  above  statements.  The  Hyp- 
sistarii  do  not  appear  to  have  extended  outside  of  Cap- 
padocia, and  they  seem  to  have  existed  but  a short 
time  there,  for  no  mention  is  made  of  them  either  be- 
fore or  after  the  4th  century.  Contrary  to  the  state- 
ment of  the  ancient  writers,  who  described  them  as 
Monotheists,  Bbhmer  concludes  from  the  remark  made 
by  Gregory  concerning  his  father,  vtt  ticibXmc  irdpOQ 
i)iv  Zdnor,  that,  though  the  Ilypsistarii  worshipped  but 
one  God,  they  did  not  formally  deny  the  existence  of 
more.  It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  in  view  of  the  scan- 
ty information  we  possess  concerning  this  sect,  that 
very  great  differences  of  opinion  should  exist  in  regard 
to  them.  Moshcim  considers  them  as  belonging  to  the 
Gnostic  school ; J.  J.  AVetstein  (in  Prolegom.  I.,  JY.  T. 
p.  31,  38)  and  D.  Ilarenberg  consider  them  as  identical 
with  the  Ccelicolce  (q.  v.),  regarding  them  as  descend- 
ants from  the  worshippers  of  Thor;  others  trace  a re- 
semblance between  their  doctrines  and  those  of  Zoroas- 
ter. That  they  were  not  a Christian  sect  is  proved  by 
the  fact  of  Gregory  of  Nazianzum’s  father  having  be- 
longed to  it  before  his  becoming  a Christian.  Ullmann 
considers  them  as  Eclectics,  combining  the  elements  of 
Judaism  with  the  Persian  religion,  while  Bbhmer  looks 
upon  them  as  identical,  with  the  Euphcmitcs,  which 
Neander  (Cli.  Hist,  ii,  507)  also  thinks  probable.  Their 
morals  are  represented  as  having  been  very  good.  See 
Herzog,  Iteal-Eneyklop.  s.  v. ; Fulirmann,  IJandworterb. 
d.  Kirchengcsch.  ii,  380  sq. ; AATalch,  7 list.  d.  Ketzereien, 
ii,  180  sq. ; Schrockh,  Kirchengesch.  xiii,  278  sq. ; C.  UU- 
mnnn,  De  Ilypsistariis  (Heidelb.  1833)  ; G.  Bbhmer,  De 
Uypsistariis  (Berol.  1834). 

Hyrcanus  (Ypicavog,  see  Hircanus),  the  name 
of  two  of  the  high-priests  and  kings  of  the  Maccabtean 
line  of  the  Jews.  See  Maccabees. 

1.  John  Hyrcanus,  the  son  of  Simon  Maccabeus, 
who  sent  him  with  his  brother  Judas  to  repel  Cendebae- 
us,  the  general  of  Antiochus  AH  I,  B.C.  137.  O11  the 

assassination  of  his  father  and  two  brothers,  John  as- 
cended the  throne,  B.C.  135.  During  the  first  year  of 
his  reign  Jerusalem  was  besieged  by  Antiochus  Sidetes, 


HYSSOP 


451 


HYSSOP 


and  at  length  Hyrcanus  was  obliged  to  submit.  The 
walls  of  Jerusalem  were  destroyed,  and  a tribute  im- 
posed upon  the  city.  Hyrcanus  afterwards  accompa- 
nied Antiochus  in  his  expedition  against  the  Parthians, 
but  returned  to  Jerusalem  before  the  defeat  of  the  Syr- 
ian army.  After  the  defeat  and  death  of  Antiochus, 
B.C.  130,  Hyrcanus  took  several  cities  belonging  to  the 
Syrian  kingdom,  and  completely  established  his  own 
independence.  He  strengthened  his  power  by  an  alli- 
ance with  the  Romans,  and  extended  his  dominions  by 
the  conquest  of  the  Iclum  aeons,  whom  he  compelled  to 
submit  to  circumcision  and  to  observe  the  Mosaic  law ; 
and  also  by  taking  Samaria,  which  he  levelled  to  the 
ground,  and  flooded  the  spot  on  which  it  had  stood. 
The  latter  part  of  his  reign  was  troubled  by  disputes 
between  the  Pharisees  and  Sadducees.  Hyrcanus  had 
originally  belonged  to  the  Pharisees,  but  had  quitted 
their  party  in  consequence  of  an  insult  he  received  at 
an  entertainment  from  Eleazar,  a person  of  importance 
among  the  Pharisees.  By  uniting  himself  to  the  Sad- 
ducees, Hyrcanus,  notwithstanding  the  benefits  he  had 
conferred  upon  his  country  by  his  wise  and  vigorous 
government,  became  very  unpopular  with  the  common 
people,  who  were  mostly  attached  to  the  Pharisees. 
Hyrcanus  died  B.C.  10G,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son 
Aristobulus  (Joseph.  A nt.  xiii,  7 sq. ; War,  i,  2;  1 Mace. 
xv,xvi;  Justin,  xxxvi,  1;  Diodorus,  Exc.  llcesch.  xxxiv, 
1 ; Plot.  Apophth.  p.  184  sq.;  Eusebius,  Chron.  Arm.  p. 
94,  1G7).  See  Smith,  Diet,  of  Classical  Biography,  s. 
v.  See  Antiochus. 

2.  Hyrcanus  II,  son  of  Alexander  Jannseus,  and 
grandson  of  the  preceding.  On  the  death  of  his  father 
(B.C.  78)  he  was  appointed  higli-priest  by  his  mother 
Alexandra,  ivho  ruled  Judiea  herself  for  the  next  nine 
years.  After  her  death  (B.C.  69),  his  younger  brother, 
Aristobulus,  a braver  and  more  energetic  man,  seized 
the  government,  and  forced  Hyrcanus  to  withdraw  into 
private  life.  Induced  by  the  Id'umiean  Antipater,  and 
aided  by  Aretas,  king  of  Arabia  Petrrea,  he  endeavored 
to  win  back  his  dominions,  but  was  not  successful  until 
Pompey  began  to  favor  his  cause.  After  some  years  of 
tumultuous  fighting,  Aristobulus  was  poisoned  by  the 
partisans  of  Ptolemy  (B.C.  49),  and  Hyrcanus,  who  had 
for  some  time  possessed,  if  he  had  not  enjoyed,  the  dig- 
nity of  high-priest  and  ethnarch,  was  now  deprived  of 
the  latter  of  these  offices,  for  which,  in  truth,  he  was 
wholly  incompetent.  Ctesar  (B.C.  47),  on  account  of 
the  services  rendered  to  him  by  Antipater,  made  the 
latter  procurator  of  Judaea,  and  thus  left  in  his  hands 
all  the  real  power,  Hyrcanus  busying  himself  only  with 
the  affairs  of  the  priesthood  and  Temple.  Troubles, 
however,  were  in  store  for  him.  Antipater  was  assassin- 
ated, and  Antigonus,  son  of  Aristobulus,  with  the  help 
of  the  Parthian  king,  Orodes  I,  invaded  the  land,  cap- 
tured Hyrcanus  by  treachery,  cut  off  his  ears,  and  thus 
disqualified  him  for  the  office  of  high-priest,  and  carried 
him  off  to  Seleucia,  on  the  Tigris.  Some  years  later, 
Herod,  son  of  his  old  friend  Antipater,  obtained  supreme 
power  in  Judiea,  and  invited  the  aged  Hyrcanus  home 
to  Jerusalem.  He  was  allowed  to  depart,  and  for  some 
time  lived  in  ease  and  comfort,  but,  falling  under  suspi- 
cion of  intriguing  against  Herod,  he  was  put  to  death 
(B.C.  30)  (Josephus,  Ant.  xiii,  1G ; xiv,  1-13 ; War,  i,  fi- 
ll; Dio  Cass,  xxxvii,  15,  16;  xlviii,  26;  Diod.  xl,  Ex. 
Vet.  p.  128 ; Oros.  vi,  6 ; Euseb.  Chron.  A rm.  p.  94).  See 
Smith,  Diet,  of  Class.  Biog.  s.  v.  See  Herod. 

Hyssop  (siTX,  ezob',  of  uncertain  etymology ; Gr. 
votritiTTog),  a plant  difficult  to  define,  especially  as  the 
similarity  of  the  above  terms  has  early  led  to  their  con- 
fusion. As  the  voo(jj7rog  of  Greek  authors  is  generally 
acknowledged  to  be  the  common  hyssop  ( Ilyssopus  offi- 
cinalis of  botanists),  it  has  been  inferred  that  it  must 
also  be  the  plant  of  the  Old  Testament,  as  well  as  that 
referred  to  in  the  New  Testament.  This  inference  has 
not,  however,  been  universally  acquiesced  in;  for  Cel- 
sius enumerates  no  less  than  eighteen  different  plants 
which  have  been  adduced  by  various  authors  as  the 


hyssop  of  Scripture.  The  chief  difficulty  arises  from 
the  fact  that  in  the  Sept,  the  Greek  vaffunog  is  the 
uniform  rendering  of  the  Hebrew  ezob,  and  that  this 
rendering  is  indorsed  by  the  apostle  in  the  Epistle  to 
the  Hebrews  (ix,  19,  21),  when  speaking  of  the  cere- 
monial observances  of  the  Levitieal  law.  Whether, 
therefore,  the  Sept,  made  use  of  the  Greek  virowirog  as 
the  word  most  nearly  resembling  the  Hebrew  in  sound, 
as  Stanley  suggests  (S.  and  Pal.  p.  21,  note),  or  as  the 
true  representative  of  the  plant  indicated  by  the  latter, 
is  a point  which,  in  all  probability,  will  never  be  de- 
cided. Botanists  differ  widely  even  with  regard  to  the 
identification  of  the  vooioTrog  of  Dioscorides.  The  name 
has  been  given  to  the  Satvrcia  Grceca  and  the  8.  Juli- 
ana, to  neither  of  which  it  is  appropriate,  and  the  hys- 
sop of  Italy  and  South  France  is  not  met  with  in  Greece, 
Syria,  or  Egypt.  Daubeny  {Lect,  on  Born.  Husbandry, 
p.  313),  following  Sibthorpe,  identifies  the  mountain 
hyssop  with  the  Thymhra  spicata,  but  this  conjecture 
is  disapproved  of  by  Kuhn  {Comm,  in  Diosc.  iii,  27),  who 
in  the  same  passage  gives  it  as  his  opinion  that  the  He- 
brews used  the  Origanum  sEgypticum  in  Egypt,  the  0. 
Syriacum  in  Palestine,  and  that  the  hyssop  of  Dioscor- 
ides -was  the  0.  Smymccum.  The  Greek  botanist  de- 
scribes two  kinds  of  hyssop,  opeivt)  and  Kg-mv-ry,  and 
gives  TreaaXep  as  the 
Egyptian  equivalent. 

The  Talmudists  make 
the  same  distinction  be- 
tween the  wild  hyssop 
and  the  garden  - plant 
used  for  food.  The  hys- 
sop is  of  three  species, 
but  only  one  of  these  is 
cidtivated  for  use.  The 
common  hyssop  is  a 
shrub,  with  low  bushy 
stalks,  growing  a foot 
and  a half  high ; small, 
pear-shaped,  close -set- 
ting, opposite  leaves, 
with  several  smaller 
ones  rising  from  the 
same  joint;  and  all  the 
stalks  and  branches  ter- 
minated by  erect,  wliorl- 
cd  spikes  of  flowers,  of 
different  colors  in  the 
varieties.  They  are  very 
hardy  plants,  and  may 
be  propagated  either  by  slips  or  cuttings,  or. by  seeds. 
The  leaves  have  an  aromatic  smell,  and  a warm,  pun- 
gent taste.  It  is  a native  of  the  South  of  Europe  and 
the  East. 

The  first  notice  of  the  scriptural  plant  occurs  in  Exod. 
xii,  22,  where  a bunch  of  hyssop  is  directed  to  be  dipped 
in  blood  and  struck  on  the  lintels  and  the  two  side-posts 
of  the  doors  of  the  houses  in  which  the  Israelites  re- 
sided. It  is  next  mentioned  in  Lev.  xiv,  4,  6,  52,  in  the 
ceremony  for  declaring  lepers  to  be  cleansed ; and  again 
in  Numb,  xix,  G,  18,  in  preparing  the  water  of  separa- 
tion. To  these  passages  the  apostle  alludes  in  Heb.  ix, 
19  : “For  when  Moses  had  spoken  every  precept  to  all 
the  people,  according  to  the  law,  he  took  the  blood  of 
calves,  and  of  goats,  with  water,  and  scarlet  wool,  and 
hyssop,  and  sprinkled  both  the  book  and  all  the  people.” 
From  this  text  we  find  that  the  Greek  name  vooioirog 
was  considered  synonymous  with  the  Hebrew  ezob ; and 
from  the  preceding  that  the  plant  must  have  been  leafy, 
and  large  enough  to  serve  for  the  purposes  of  sprinkling, 
and  that  it  must  have  been  found  in  Lower  Egypt,  as 
well  as  in  the  country  towards  Mount  Sinai,  and  on- 
wards to  Palestine.  From  the  following  passage  we  get 
some  informatioh  respecting  the  habits  and  the  supposed 
properties  of  the  plant.  Thus,  in  1 Kings  iv,  33,  it  is 
said,  “ Solomon  spoke  of  trees,  from  the  cedar-tree  that 
is  in  Lebanon,  even  unto  the  hyssop  that  springeth  out 


HYSSOP 


452 


HYSSOP 


of  the  wall;”  and  in  the  penitential  psalm  of  David  (li,  j 
7),  “ Purge  me  with  hyssop,  and  I shall  be  clean : wash 
me,  and  I shall  be  whiter  than  snow.”  In  this  last  pas-  j 
sage,  it  is  true,  the  word  is  thought  by  some  commenta- 
tors to  be  used  in  a figurative  sense ; but  still  it  is  pos- 
sible that  the  plant  may  have  possessed  some  general 
cleansing  properties,  and  thus  come  to  be  employed  in 
preference  to  other  plants  in  the  ceremonies  of  purifica- 
tion. It  ought,  at  all  events,  to  be  foiuid  growing  upon 
walls,  and  in  Palestine.  In  the  account  of  the  crucifix- 
ion of  our  Saviour,  the  evangelist  John  says  (xix,  29), 
“ Now  there  was  set  a vessel  full  of  vinegar,  and  they 
filled  a sponge  with  vinegar,  and  put  it  upon  hyssop, 
and  put  it  to  his  mouth.”  In  the  parallel  passages  of 
Matthew  (xxvii,  48)  and  Mark  (xv,36)  it  is  stated  that 
the  sponge  filled  with  vinegar  was  put  upon  a reed  or 
stick.  To  reconcile  these  statements,  some  commenta- 
tors have  supposed  that  both  the  sponge  and  the  hyssop 
were  tied  to  a stick,  and  that  one  evangelist  mentions 
only  the  hyssop,  because  he  considered  it  as  the  most 
important;  while,  for  the  same  reason,  the  other  two 
mention  only  the  stick ; but  the  simplest  mode  of  ex- 
plaining the  apparent  discrepancy  is  to  consider  the 
hyssop  and  the  stick  to  be  the  same  thing — in  other 
words,  that  the  sponge  was  affixed  to  a stick  of  hyssop. 

Of  the  different  plants  adduced  by  Celsius  as  having 
more  or  less  claims  to  be  regarded  as  the  hyssop  of 
Scripture,  some  belong  to  the  class  of  ferns,  as  Ccipillus 
Veneris,  maiden-hair,  and  Rut  a murciria,  or  wall -rue, 
because  they  will  grow  upon  walls;  so  also  the  Poly- 
trichum, or  hair-moss,  the  Kloster  hyssops,  or  pearlwort, 
and  Saginaprocumhens  are  suggested  by  others,  because, 
from  their  growing  on  rocks  or  walls,  they  will  answer 
to  the  passage  in  1 Kings  iv,  33,  and  from  their  small- 
ness contrast  well  with  the  cedar  of  Lebanon,  and  are  a 
proof  of  the  minute  knowledge  of  Solomon.  Some  again 
contend  for  species  of  wormwood,  as  being,  from  their 
bitterness,  most  likely  to  have  been  added  to  the  vine- 
gar in  the  sponge,  that  it  might  be  more  distasteful  to 
our  Saviour.  The  majority,  however,  have  selected  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  fragrant  plants  belonging  to  the  natural 
family  of  Labiatce , several  of  which  are  found  in  dry 
and  barren  situations  in  Palestine,  and  also  in  some  parts 
of  the  desert.  (See  Iiau wolf,  Trav.  p.  59, 456 ; Hassel- 
quist,  7Var.p.  554,  517 ; Burckhardt,  Trav.  ii,  913 ; Rob- 
inson, Researches,  i,  162, 157.)  ( )f  these  may  be  men- 

tioned the  rosemary,  various  species  of  lavender,  of  mint, 
of  marjoram,  of  thyme,  of  savory,  of  thymbra,  and  oth- 
ers of  the  same  tribe,  resembling  each  other  much  in 
character  as  well  as  in  properties;  but  it  does  not  ap- 
pear that  any  of  them  grow  on  walls,  or  are  possessed 
of  cleansing  properties ; and,  with  the  exception  of  the 
rosemary,  they  are  not  capable  of  yielding  a stick,  nor 
are  they  found  in  all  the  required  situations.  If  we  look 
to  the  most  recent  authors,  we  find  some  other  plants 
adduced,  though  the  generality  adhere  to  the  common 
hyssop.  Sprengel  (Hist.  Rei  Herb,  i,  14)  seems  to  enter- 
tain no  doubt  that  the  Thymbra  spicata  found  by  Ilas- 
selquist  on  the  ruins  about  Jerusalem  is  the  hyssop 
of  Solomon,  though  Hasselquist  himself  thought  that 
the  moss  called  Oymnostomum  truneatum  was  the  plant. 
Lady  Calcott  asks  “ whether  the  hyssop  upon  which 
St.  John  says  the  sponge  steeped  in  vinegar  was  put,  to 
be  held  to  the  lips  of  Christ  upon  the  cross,  might  not 
be  the  hyssop  attached  to  its  staff  of  cedar-wood,  for  the 
purposes  of  sprinkling  the  people,  lest  they  should  con- 
tract defilement  on  the  eve  of  the  Sabbath,  which  was  a 
high-day,  by  being  in  the  field  of  execution”  ( Scripture 
Herbal,  p.  208).  Rosenmuller,  again,  thinks  that  the 
Hebrew  word  ezob  does  not  denote  our  hyssop,  but  an 
aromatic  plant  resembling  it,  the  wild  marjoram,  which 
the  Germans  call  Dosten,  or  Wohlgemuth,  the  Arabs  Za- 
tar,  and  the  Greeks  Origanum.  In  the  Pictorial  Bible 
(i,  161),  Mr.  Kitto  observes  “that  the  hyssop  of  the  sa- 
cred Scriptures  has  opened  a wide  field  for  conjecture, 
but  in  no  instance  has  any  plant  been  suggested  that,  at 
the  same  time,  has  a sufficient  length  of  stem  to  answer 


the  purpose  of  a wand  or  pole,  and  such  detergent  or 
cleansing  properties  as  to  render  it  a fit  emblem  for  pu- 
rification and  he  suggests  it  as  probable  that  “ the 
hyssop  was  a species  of  Phytolacca,  as  combining  length 
of  stem  with  cleansing  properties,  from  the  quantity  of 
potash  which  is  yielded  by  the  ashes  of  the  American 
species,  P.  decandra,  of  this  genus.”  P.  A byssinica  grows 
to  the  size  of  a shrub  in  Abyssinia.  Winer  ( BibLReal - 
icdrterbuch,  s.  v.  Ysop)  observes  that  the  Talmudists  dis- 
tinguish the  hyssop  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans  from  that 
mentioned  in  the  law.  lie  then  adduces  the  Origanum , 
mentioned  in  the  quotation  from  Rosenmuller,  as  the 
ezob  of  the  Hebrews ; but  concludes  by  observing  that 
a more  accurate  examination  is  required  of  the  hyssops 
and  Origana  of  that  part  of  Asia  before  the  meaning  of 
the  Hebrew  term  can  be  considered  as  satisfactorily  de- 
termined. Five  kinds  of  hyssop  are  mentioned  in  the 
Talmud  One  is  called  -MX  simply,  without  any  epi- 
thet: the  others  are  distinguished  as  Greek,  Roman, 
wild  hyssop,  and  hyssop  of  Cocliali  (Mishna,  Negaim, 
xiv,  6).  Of  these,  the  four  last  mentioned  were  profane, 
that  is,  not  to  be  employed  in  purifications  (Mishna, 
Parah,  xi,  7).  Maimonides  (cle  Vacca  Ruja,  iii,  2)  says 
that  the  hyssop  mentioned  in  the  law  is  that  which  was 
used  as  a condiment.  According  to  Porphyry  (DeAbstin. 
iv,  7),  the  Egyptian  priests  on  certain  occasions  ate  their 
bread  mixed  with  hyssop;  and  the  zaatar,  or  wild  mar- 
joram, with  which  it  has  been  identified,  is  often  an  in- 
gredient in  a mixture  called  ditkkah,  which  is  to  this 
day  used  as  food  by  the  poorer  classes  in  Egypt  (Lane, 
Mod.  Eg.  i,  200).  It  is  not  improbable,  therefore,  that 
this  may  have  been  the  hyssop  of  Maimonides,  who 
wrote  in  Egypt ; more  especially  as  R.  D.  Ivimchi  {Lex. 
s.  v.),who  reckons  seven  different  kinds,  gives  as  the 
equivalent  the  Arabic  zaatar,  origanum,  or  marjoram, 
and  the  German  Dosten  or  Wohlgemuth  (Rosenmuller, 
Handb.).  With  this  agrees  the  Tanchum  Hieros.  MS. 
quoted  by  Gesenius.  So  in  the  Juda?o-Spanish  version, 
Exod.  xii,  22  is  translated  “y  tomaredes  manojo  de  on- 
ganoP  This  is  doubtless  the  species  of  “ hyssop”  ( zaatar ) 
shown  to  Dr. Thomson,  Avho  describes  it  as  “having  the 
fragrance  of  thyme,  with  a hot,  pungent  taste,  and  long 
slender  stems”  ( Land  and  Book,  i,  161).  But  Dioscorides 
makes  a distinction  between  origanum  and  hyssop  when 
he  describes  the  leaf  of  a species  of  the  former  as  resem- 
bling the  latter  (comp.  Plin.  xx,  67),  though  it  is  evident 
that  he,  as  well  as  the  Talmudists,  regarded  them  as  be- 
longing to  the  same  family.  In  the  Syriac  of  1 Kings 
iv,  33,  liyssop  is  rendered  by  litfo , “honselcek,”  although 
in  other  passages  it  is  represented  by  zuj'd,  which  the 
Arabic  translation  follows  in  Psa.  li,  9,  and  Heb.  ix,  19, 
while  in  the  Pentateuch  it  has  zaatar  for  the  same. 
Patrick  (on  1 Kings  iv,  33)  was  of  opinion  that  ezob  is 
the  same  with  the  Ethiopic  azub,  which  represents  the 
hyssop  of  Psa.  li,  9,  as  well  as  ijcvoayov,  or  mint,  in 
Matt,  xxiii,  23.  The  monks  on  Jebel  Musa  give  the 
name  of  hyssop  to  a fragrant  plant  called  ja'deh , which 
grows  in  great  quantities  on  that  mountain  (Robinson, 
Bib/.  Res.  i,  157).  It  has  been  reserved  for  the  ingenuity 
of  a German  to  trace  a connection  between  ./Esop,  the 
Greek  fabulist,  and  the  ezob  of  1 Kings  iv,  33  (Ilitzig, 
Die  Spriiche  Salomo's,  Einl.  § 2).  (See  Celsius.  Hierobot. 

i,  407  sq.;  comp.  Bochart,  Hicroz.  i,  589 ; Plenk,  Plant. 
Med.  tab.  465 ; Otho,  Lex.  Rabb.  p.  284  sq. ; Faber,  in 
Keil’s  Anafect.  i,  3 sq. ; Geiger,  Pharmaceut.  Bot.  i,  491 ; 
Gesenius,  Thesaur.  i.  57  sq. ; Sprengel,  ad  iJioscor.  ii,  506 
sq. ; Prosp.  Alpin.  Plant.  JEgypt.  c.  20 ; Spencer,  Leg.  Rit. 

ii,  15, 4 ; and  the  Talmudical,  classical,  and  other  author- 
ities there  cited.) 

The  latest  result  is  that  of  Dr.  J.  F.  Royle  (communi- 
cated in  a paper  read  before  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society, 
and  published  in  their  journal  for  November,  1844),  who 
infers,  first,  that  any  plant  answering  to  all  that  was  re- 
quired should  be  found  in  Lower  Egypt  (Exod.  xii,  22) ; 
in  the  desert  of  Sinai  (Lev.xiv,4,6,  and  52;  Numb.xix, 
6, 18) ; in  the  neighborhood  of  Jerusalem  (John  xix,  29) ; 
secondly,  that  it  should  be  a plant  growing  on  walls  or 


IIYSTASPES 


453 


HYTTAVANES 


rocky  situations  (1  Kings  iv,  33) ; and,  finally,  that  it 
should  be  possessed  of  some  cleansing  properties  (Psa.  li, 
7),  though  it  is  probable  that  in  this  passage  it  is  used 
in  a figurative  sense.  It  should  also  be  large  enough  to 
yield  a stick,  and  it  ought,  moreover,  to  have  a name  in 
the  Arabic  or  cognate  languages  similar  to  the  Hebrew 
name.  After  a careful  and  minute  examination  of  all 
the  ancient  and  modern  testimony  in  the  case,  he  finds 
all  these  circumstances  united  in  the  caper-plant,  or 
Capparis  spinosa  of  Linnaeus.  Sec  Caper-plant.  The 
Arabic  name  of  this  plant,  ttsuf,  by  which  it  is  some- 
times, though  not  commonly  described,  bears  considera- 
ble resemblance  to  the  Hebrew.  It  is  found  in  Lower 
Egypt  (Forskal,  Flor.  Eg.- A rab. ; Flin.  xiii,  44).  Bnrck- 
liardt  ( True. in  Byr.  p.  536)  mentions  the  aszef  as  a tree 
of  frequent  occurrence  in  the  valleys  of  the  peninsula  of 
1 Sinai, “the  bright  green  creeper  which  climbs  out  of 
the  fissures  of  the  rocks”  (Stanley,  B.  and  1\  p.  21,  ete.), 
and  produces  a fruit  of  the  size  of  a walnut,  called  by  the 
Arabs  Fdj'd  Jibbel,  or  mountain-pepper  (Shaw,  Bpec. 
Phytogr.  A Jr.  p.  39).  Dr.  Foyle  thought  this  to  be  un- 
doubtedly a species  of  capparis , and  probably  the  caper- 
plant.  The  Capparis  spinosa  was  found  by  M.  Bove 
{lid.  dun  Voy.Botan.en  Eg.,  etc.)  in  the  desert  of  Sinai, 
at  Gaza,  and  at  Jerusalem.  Lynch  saw  it  in  a ravine 
near  the  convent  of  Alar  Saba  {Exped.  p.  388).  It  is 
thus  met  with  in  all  the  localities  where  the  ezob  is 
mentioned  in  the  Bible.  With  regard  to  its  habitat,  it 
grows  in  dry  and  rocky  plaees,  and  on  walls:  “quippe 
quum  capparis  quoque  seratur  sircis  maxime”  (riin.  xix, 
48).  De  Candolle  describes  it  as  found  “ in  muris  et  ru- 
pestribus.”  The  caper-plant  was  believed  to  be  possess- 
ed of  detergent  qualities.  According  to  Pliny  (xx,  59), 
the  root  was  applied  to  the  cure  of  a disease  similar  to 
the  leprosy.  Lamarck  ( Ene . Botan.  art.  Caprier)  says, 
“Les  capriers  . . . sont  regardes  comme  . . . antiscorbn- 
tiques.”  Finally,  the  caper-plant  is  capable  of  producing 
a stick  three  or  four  feet  in  length.  Pliny  (xiii,  44)  de- 
scribes it  in  Egypt  as  “ firmioris  ligni  frutex,”  and  to 
this  property  Dr.  Boyle,  attaches  great  importance,  iden- 
tifying, as  he  does,  the  vaaioTriy  of  John  xix,  29  with  the 
KaXdfup  of  Matthew  and  Mark. — Kitto ; Smith.  To  this 
identification,  however,  Dr.  G.  E.  Post  (in  the  Am.  ed. 
of  Smith’s  Bibl.  Diet.)  justly  objects  that  the  caper-plant 
has  a thorny  stem,  and  is  too  straggling  and  otherwise 
unsuitable  in  form  for  the  us$s  designated;  and,  more- 
over, that  its  Arab,  name  really  has  little  affinity  with 
the  Ileb.  ezob.  He  therefore  returns  to  Celsius's  idea  of 
the  Labiates , or  marjoram  tribe,  specially  the  Origanum 
maru  (Arab.  Zupha ),  which  grows  on  the  Avails  of  ter- 
races, has  a long  slender  stem,  or  cluster  of  stems,  Avith 
a bushy  top,  a fragrant  odor,  and  a bitter  but  Avholesome 
fla\'or.  With  this  agrees  one  of  the  Arabic  and  Syriac 
renderings  above  noted. 

Hystaspes  (YoTaoinig,  also  Hystaspas,  i.  e.  Ily- 
daspes),  a prophetieo-apocalyptie  Avork  among  the  early 
Christians,  thought  to  contain  predictions  of  Christ  and 
the  future  of  his  kingdom,  so  called  from  a Persian  sa- 
vant (Magus),  Hystaspes,  under  whose  name  it  was  cir- 
culated. As  in  the  case  of  the  Sibyllines  (q.  v.),  the 
Avork  in  question  seems  to  liaArc  been  an  attempt  made 
by  the  early  Church  fathers  to  find  in  the  religion  and 
philosophical  systems  of  the  heathen  predictions  of  and 
relations  to  the  Christian  religion.  The  first  mention 
of  these  vaticinia  ffystaspis  Ave  find  in  tAA’O  passages  of 
Justin  (Apolog.  i,  20,  cap.  21,  p.  06  c,  ed.  Otho,  i,  p.  180, 
and  cap.  44,  p.  82  c,  ed.  Otho,  p.  226).  According  to  the 
first  passage,  the  destruction  of  the  Avorld  is  predicted 
by  Hystaspes  as  it  is  foretold  by  the  Sibylla  (Koi  28- 
[3vXXa  iccti  'Yotciottiq  ytvijoeoSai  non  <p5apTwv  dvd - 
Xioaiv  did  irvobg  In  the  seeond  passage  Jus- 

tin asserts  that  the  bad  diemons,  in  their  efforts  to  pre- 
vent. man’s  knowing  the  truth,  succeeded  in  establishing 
a Iuav  Avhieh  forbids  the  reading  of  the  filfiXoi  'Yotckt- 
ttov  i)  ^ifivXXrjg  f)  rwv  7 rpofiijribr  under  penalty  of 
death;  but  the  Christians,  notwithstanding  this  laAA', 
not  only  read  the  books  themselves,  but  even  incited 


the  heathen  to  study  them.  More  particular  informa- 
tion in  regard  to  their  contents  is  gh'en  ns  by  Clement 
of  Alexandria  ( Stromata , v,  6,  § 43,  ed.  Potter,  p.  761). 
But  so  varying  haA'e  been  the  interpretations  of  this 
passage  that  it  is  difficult  to  determine  definitely  Avheth- 
er  the  book  is  of  older  origin  than  the  first  half  of  the 
2d  century.  To  this  opinion  Wagenmann  (in  Herzog’s 
Real-Encyklop.')  inclines.  The  information  AA'hich  Clem- 
ent furnishes  us  is:  1.  There  existed  in  the  2d  century 
a /3i(3X og  'E Wip'oct),  a Avork  Avritten  in  Greek,  and  cir- 
culated in  Christian  and  heathen  circles,  entitled  6 'Yer- 
Tcanryg.  2.  The  Christians  found  in  it,  eA’en  more 
plainly  than  in  the  books  of  the  Sibyllines,  references  to 
Christ  and  the  future  of  his  kingdom,  and  especially  a 
reference  to  Christ’s  divine  sonship,  to  the  sufferings 
which  aAvaited  him  and  his  folloAvers,  to  the  inex- 
haustible patience  of  the  Christians,  and  the  final  return 
of  Christ.  The  third  and  last  of  the  Church  fathers 
Avho  make  mention  of  the  Hystaspes  is  Lactantins.  He 
speaks  of  it  in  three,  different  passages  ( Inst  it . dh’.  vii, 
cap.  15,  cap.  18;  Epitoin.  ii,  69).  In  the  first  passage 
Lactantius  speaks  of  the  Hystaspes  in  connection  Avith 
the  Sibyl,  and  in  the  tAvo  other  passages  he  speaks  of  it 
in  connection  Avith  the  Sibyl  and  Hermes  Trismegistns. 
According  to  the  first  passage,  Hystaspes,  like  the  Sibyl, 
predicts  the  extinction  of  the  empire  and  name  of  Borne. 
According  to  the  second  passage  (cap.  18),  the  troubles 
and  Avarfares  AA'hich  shall  precede  the  final  day  of  the 
Avorld  have  been  prophesied  of  by  the  prophetie  ex  Dei 
spiritu ; also  by  the  rates  ex  instinctu  diemonum.  For 
instance,  Hystaspes  is  said  to  haA'e  predicted  and  de- 
scribed the  iniquitas  sceculi  Jtujus  extremi,  Iioav  a separa- 
tion of  the  just  from  the  unjust  shall  take  place,  how 
the  pious,  amid  cries  and  sobs,  will  stretch  out  their 
hands  and  implore  the  protection  of  Jupiter  (1 imploratu - 
rosjidem  Joris),  and  Iioav  Jupiter  Avill  look  doAvn  upon 
the  earth,  hear  the  cry  of  men,  and  destroy  the  Avicked. 

With  regard  to  the  person  of  Hystaspes,  Avho  is  said 
to  be  the  author  of  the  Avork  containing  these  predic- 
tions, Justin  and  Clement  of  Alexandria  haA’e  left  us  no 
information,  and  Ave  depend,  therefore,  solely  on  Lactan- 
tius, according  to  whom  he  Avas  an  old  king  of  the 
Medes,  who  flourished  long  before  the  Trojan  war,  and 
after  Avhom  Avas  named  the  river  Hystaspes.  In  all 
probability,  Lactantius  here  thinks  of  the  father  of  king 
Darius  I,  knoAvn  to  11s  from  the  Avri tings  of  Herodotus, 
Xenophon,  and  other  Greek  authors,  but  to  Avhom  the 
prophetic  talents  of  Hystaspes  Avere  entirely  foreign. 
Amtnianus  Marcellinus  (xxiii,  6),  avIio  flourished  in  the 
4th  century  of  our  a>ra,  informs  us  that  one  Hystaspes 
had  studied  astronomy’  Avith  the  Brahmas  of  India,  and 
had  even  informed  the  Magi  of  his  ability  to  knoAv  the 
future.  Agathias,  the  Byzantine  historian  of  the  6th 
century,  knoAVS  of  a Hystaspes  Avho  Avas  a contemporary 
with  Zoroaster,  but  be  does  not  dare  to  assert  that  this 
Hystaspes  Avas  the  same  as  the  one  spoken  of  as  the  fa- 
ther of  Darius  I.  See  Parsism.  I11  view  of  the  un- 
certainty of  the  authorship,  it  is  AA'ellnigh  impossible  to 
determine  fully  the  origin,  contents,  form,  and  tenden- 
cy of  the  Vaticinia  Jlystaspis.  We  knoAv  not  eA'en 
whether  it  emanated  from  JeAvish,  Christian,  or  heathen 
Avriters,  although  all  our  present  knowledge  points  to 
the  last  as  its  probable  origin.  That  the  author  Avas  a 
Gnostic,  as  Huetius  thinks  (Qucrst.  A l net.  1,  iii,  ep.  21, 
p.  230),  is  possible,  but  cannot  be  definitely  stated,  nor 
at  all  proved ; beyond  this,  the  only  ansAver  left  us  to  all 
questions  that  might  be  put  is  a non  liquet.  See  Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop.  xix,  660  sq. ; Walch,  De  Hystaspe 
ejusque  vaticiniis,  in  the  Comment.  Soeiet.  dotting,  hist, 
et  phil.  (1779),  ii,  1-18;  Fabricius,  Biblioth.  Graze,  i,  93 
sq. ; Litcke,  Ebdeitung  in  d.  Offenb.  Joh.  (2d  ed.  1848),  p. 
237 ; Beuss,  Geschichte  d.  heil.  Schrifi.  d.N.  T.  (4th  edit. 
1864),  p.  270 ; Neander,  Ch.  Hist,  i,  17 6 sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Hyttavanes,  in  the  mythology  of  the  Finns,  is  the 
name  of  the  god  of  the  chase,  especially  of  hares.— 
Pierer,  Univ.  Lex.  viii,  693. 


IAMBLICHUS 


454 


IBEX 


lamblichus.  See  Jambliciitts. 

Ibarra,  Joaquin,  a Spanish  printer  celebrated  for 
his  magnificent  editions  of  the  Bible  and  Arabic  litur- 
gies, was  born  at  Saragossa  in  1725,  and  died  at  Madrid 
in  17*5.  His  printing-house  was  established  at  the  lat- 
ter place. — Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  724. 

Ibas  f I/3«c),  bishop  of  Edessa,  in  Syria,  from  435 
to  457,  distinguished  himself  by  the  translation  of  the 
works  of  Theodore  of  Mopsuestia  into  the  Syriac.  His 
lenient  policy  towards  the  Nestorians,  and  the  fact  that 
he  distributed  the  translation  of  Theodore  extensively 
throughout  Persia  and  Syria,  caused  several  priests  of 
his  diocese  to  accuse  him  before  the  emperor  Theodosius 
II,  and  before  the  archbishops  of  Antioch  and  Constan- 
tinople, for  favoring  Nestorianism.  The  emperor  ap- 
pointed the  bishops  Uranius  of  Himera,  Pliotius  of 
Tyre,  Eusthate  of  Berytus,  and  the  prefect  of  Damascus 
a commission  to  try  him.  Two  Synods,  held  respec- 
tively at  Berytus  and  Tyre  in  448,  failed  to  convict  him, 
and  he  was  left  undisturbed  until  the  Bobber-Synod  of 
Ephesus  (A.D.  449),  when  he  was  finally  deposed  from 
his  diocese.  He  appealed  to  the  Council  of  Chaleedon, 
and  was  restored  to  his  bishopric  in  451.  Long  after 
his  death,  in  553,  the  fifth  general  Council  of  Constan- 
tinople condemned  him  as  a Nestorian,  in  spite  of  the 
efforts  of  pope  Yigilius.  The  principal  ground  for  this 
accusation  was  a letter  written  by  him  to  the  Persian 
bishop  Maris,  in  which  he  blames  his  predecessor,  Ba- 
bulas,  for  having  condemned  Theodore  of  Mopsuestia. 
The  greater  part  of  this  letter  is  contained  in  the  Re- 
cueil  des  Conciles,  iv,  661.  See  Baronins,  A males,  an. 
448, 449, 451,  553 ; Dnpin,  Biblioth.  eccles.  da  5m<  Siecle  ; 
Cave,  Hist,  litter.;  Hoefer,  Naur.  Biagr.  Generate,  xxv, 
727 : Landon,  Manual  of  Councils,  s.  v.  Chaleedon  ; Me- 
ander, Church  History,  ii,  538-552. 

Ibbetson,  James,  D.D.,  an  English  divine,  was 
born  in  1717,  and  educated  at  Exeter  College,  Oxford. 
He  filled  successively  the  rectorate  of  Bushev,  in  Hert- 
fordshire, and  the  archdeaconry  of  St.  Alban’s,  and  died 
in  1781.  His  works  are,  Epistola  ad  Phil-Hebrceos  Ox- 
onienses  (174G) : — Short  History  of  the  Province  of  Can- 
terbury ; and  several  other  theological  treatises  and  ser- 
mons.—Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  241. 

Ibbot,  Benjamin,  D.D.,  a learned  English  divine, 
born  at  Beaehamwell,  Norfolk,  in  1G80,  was  educated  at 
Clare  Hall  and  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cambridge.  He 
became  treasurer  of  Wells  Cathedral  and  rector  of  St. 
Vedast,  London,  in  1708;  was  some  time  after  appoint- 
ed rector  of  St.  Paul,  Shadwell;  chaplain  of  George  I in 
171G;  and,  finally,  prebendary  of  Westminster  in  1724. 
He  died  April  15,  1725.  His  principal  works  are,  .4 
Course,  of  Sermons  preached  for  the  Boyle  Lecture  (1713, 
1714),  in  which  he  refutes  the  infidel  objections  of  Col- 
lins (Lond.  1727,  8vo)  : — Thirty-six  Discourses  on  prac- 
tical Subjects  (Lond.  177G,  2 vols.  8vo);  and  a transla- 
tion of  Puffendorf’s  De  IJabitu  Religionis  Christiana?  ad 
vitam  cirilem  (1719).  See  Chalmers,  Gen.  Biog.  Diet.; 
Hoefer,  Xoiir.  Biogr.  Generate,  xxv,  727;  Darling,  Cy- 
clop. Bibliographica,  ii,  1601. 

Iberians,  an  Asiatic  nation  inhabiting  the  Cauca- 
sian isthmus,  described  by  Virgil,  Horace,  and  Lucan  as 
a warlike,  cruel,  and  uncivilized  people,  while  Strabo 
speaks  of  them  as  a very  quiet  and  religions  people. 
Bnfinns  and  Moses  of  Chorene  relate  that,  during  the 
reign  of  the  emperor  Constantine,  the  great  Christina, 
probably  a Christian  woman  (some  call  her  Nino,  others 
Nunia),  was  made  prisoner  by  the  Iberians,  and  became 
a slave.  Her  piety  soon  won  for  her  the  esteem  and 
consideration  not  only  of  her  master,  but  of  the  Iberians 
generally ; and  being  on  one  occasion  asked  to  cure  a 


sick  child  of  royal  rank,  she  told  the  people  that  Christ, 
her  God,  alone  could  effect  the  cure.  She  prayed  for 
the  child,  and  it  recovered.  She  is  next  said  to  have 
cured  the  queen  by  her  prayers.  The  king,  Miraus, 
and  his  queen  were  converted,  and  did  their  utmost  to 
spread  Christianity  through  their  dominions.  The 
country  has  since  remained  Christian,  though  the  true 
religion  was  long  mixed  with  many  old  superstitions. 
Some  claim  that  Christina  was  from  Byzantium,  on  the 
ground  that  Procopius  (v,  9)  mentions  an  old  convent 
preserved  in  Jerusalem,  and  rebuilt  by  Justinian  in  the 
6th  century,  which  was  called  Iberian  or  Iwerian.  Mo- 
ses of  Chorene,  moreover,  says  that  she  was  an  Arme- 
nian, and  that  teachers  were  demanded  of  the  Armenian 
bishop  Gregory,  not  of  Borne.  The  Iberians  spread 
Christianity  among  the  surrounding  nations.  Their 
country  is  now  called  Georgia  (q.  v.),  and  they  hold  ec- 
clesiastical relations  with  the  Greek  Church  (q.  v.). — 
Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  s.  v.;  Pierer,  Universal  Lexikon, 
s.  v. ; Schrbekh,  Kirchengesch.  vi,  27  sq. 

Ibex,  the  ancient  name  of  the  Boiapaetin  or  Stein- 
bok  of  the  Alps,  an  animal  generally  thought  to  be 
designated  by  the  Ileb.  72"1,  yael'  (always  in  the  plnr., 
A.  V.  “wild  goats”),  represented  as  well  known,  and  in- 
habiting the  highest  and  most  inaccessible  steeps  (see 
Job  xxxi,  1 ; Psa.  civ,  18).  Several  species  have  been 
described  by  naturalists  as  inhabiting  the  different 
mountain  ranges  of  the  East  (e.  g.  Arabia,  Forskiil,  De- 
scrip. Anim.  pr&T.  4;  Bnppcll,  Abyss,  i,  12G;  and  Pales- 
tine, Seetzen,  xviii,  435),  all  of  them  slightly  varying 
from  the  European  form  (Capra  ibex),  and  known 
among  the  Arabs  by  the  general  name  of  beden.  Among 
the  Sinai  mountains  the  chase  is  pursued  in  much  the 
same  manner  and  under  much  the  same  circumstances 
as  that  of  the  chamois  in  the  Alps  and  the  Tyrol.  The 
hunters  exercise  great  vigilance  and  hardihood,  taking 
vast  circuits  to  get  above  their  quarry,  and  especially 
aiming  to  surprise  them  at  early  day.  Like  most 
mountain  quadrupeds  that  are  gregarious,  they  have  a 
leader  who  acts  as  sentinel,  and  gives  the  alarm  on  the 
occurrence  of  any  suspicions  sight,  sound,  or  smell, 
when  the  whole  flock  makes  off  for  a loftier  peak. 
Their  numbers  are  said  to  have  much  decreased  of  late 
years;  for  the  Arabs  report  them  so  abundant  fifty  years 
ago,  that  if  a stranger  sought  hospitality  at  a Bedouin’s 
tent,  and  the  owner  had  no  sheep  to  kill,  he  would  with- 
out hesitation  take  his  gun  and  go  confidently  to  shoot 
a beden.  The  flesh  is  excellent,  with  a flavor  similar  to 


Caucasian  Ibex. 


IBHAU 


455 


IBX-AKNIN 


that  of  venison.  The  Bedouins  make  water-bottles  of 
their  skins,  as  of  those  of  the  domestic  goats,  and  rings 
of  their  horns,  which  they  wear  on  their  thumbs.  Dogs 
easily  catch  them  when  surprised  in  the  plains,  but  in 
the  abrupt  precipices  and  chasms  of  the  rocks  the  ibex 
is  said  to  elude  pursuit  by  the  tremendous  leaps  which 
it  makes.  It  is  likely  that  this  species  is  identical 
with  that  which  bears  the  name  otposeng  ( Citprus  trga- 
grus),  and  which  inhabits  all  the  loftier  ranges  that 
traverse  Asia,  from  the  Taurus  and  Caucasus  to  China. 
It  is  very  robust,  and  much  larger  than  any  domestic 
goat ; its  general  color  iron-gray,  shaded  with  brown, 
with  a black  line  down  the  back  and  across  the  with- 
ers, and  a white  patch  on  the  crupper,  'l'lie  horns  of 
the  male  are  very  large,  compressed,  and  slightly  di- 
verging as  they  arch  over  the  back;  their  front  side 
makes  an  obtuse  edge,  and  is  marked  by  a series  of 
knobs,  with  deep  hollows  between.  — Fairbairn.  See 
Wild  Goat  ; Hind,  etc. 

Ib'liar  (Heb.  Yibchar',  chosen;  Sept.  ’I (3e- 

«p,  T efietdp  [cod.  Yat. '£/3ertp,  'E/3«o’p] ; Josephus  Tc- 
/ Sap , Ant.  vii,  3,  3),  one  of  the  sons  of  David  (by  a sec- 
ondary wife,  1 Chron.  iii,  9)  born  to  him  in  Jerusalem, 
mentioned  next  after  Solomon  and  before  Elishua  (2 
Sam.  v,  15;  1 Chron.  iii,  6;  xiv,  5).  B.C.  post  1044. 
See  David. 

Ibis,  a genus  of  birds  of  the  family  A rdeida »,  or,  ac- 
cording to  some  ornithologists,  of  Scolopacidee,  and  per- 
haps to  be  regarded  as  a connecting  link  between  them. 
The  bill  is  long,  slender,  curved,  thick  at  the  base;  the 
point  rather  obtuse;  the  upper  mandible  deeply  grooved 
throughout  its  length.  The  lace,  and  generally  the 
greater  part  of  the  head,  and  sometimes  even  the  neck, 
are  destitute  of  feathers,  at  least  in  adult  birds.  The 
neck  is  long.  The  legs  are  rather  long,  naked  above 
the  tarsal  joint,  with  three  partially  united  toes  in  front 
and  one  behind;  the  wings  are  moderately  long;  the 
tail  is  very  short.  The  Sacred  or  Egyptiau  ibis  ( Ibis 


Sacred  Ibis. 


religiose)  is  an  African  bird,  two  feet  six  inches  in 
length,  although  the  body  is  little  larger  than  that  of  a 
common  fowl.  It  was  one  of  the  birds  worshipped  by 
the  ancient  Egyptians,  and  called  by  them  Hub  or  I lib, 
and  by  the  modern  Egyptians  Abn-Hannes  (i.  c.  Father 
John).  It  is  represented  on  the  monuments  as  a bird 
with  long  beak  and  legs,  and  a heart-shaped  body,  cov-  | 
ered  with  black  and  white  plumage.  It  was  supposed, 
from  the  color  of  its  feathers,  to  symbolize  the  light 
and  shade  of  the  moon,  its  body  to  represent  the  heart; 
its  legs  described  a triangle,  and  with  its  beak  it  per- 
formed a medical  operation ; from  all  which  esoterical 
ideas  it  was  the  avatar  of  the  god  Thoth  or  Hermes  (q. 
v.),  Avho  escaped  in  that  shape  the  pursuit  of  Typlion, 
as  the  hawk  was  that  of  Ra,  or  Horns,  the  sun.  Its 
feathers  were  supposed  to  scare,  and  even  kill,  the  croc- 
odile. It  appeared  in  Egypt  at  the  rise,  and  disappear- 
ed at  the  inundation  of  the  Xile,  and  was  thought,  at 


that  time,  to  deliver  Egypt  from  the  winged  and  other 
serpents  which  came  from  Arabia  in  certain  narrow 
passes.  As  it  did  not  make,  its  nest  in  Egypt,  it  was 
thought  to  be  self-engendering,  and  to  lay  eggs  for  a 
lunar  month.  According  to  some,  the  basilisk  was  en- 
gendered by  it.  It  was  celebrated  for  its  purity,  and 
only  drank  from  the  purest  water,  and  the  most  strict 
of  the  priesthood  only  drank  of  the  pools  where  it  had 
been  seen;  besides  which,  it  was  fabled  to  entertain  the 
most  invincible  love  of  Egypt,  and  to  die  of  self-starva- 
tion if  transported  elsewhere.  Its  flesh  was  thought  to 
be  incorruptible  after  death,  and  to  kill  it  was  punisha- 
ble with  death.  Ibises  were  kept  in  the  temples,  and 
unmolested  in  the  neighborhood  of  cities.  After  death 
they  were  mummied,  and  there  is  no  animal  of  which 
so  many  remains  have  been  found  at  Thebes,  Memphis, 
Ilermopolis  Magna,  or  Eshmun,  and  at  lbiu  or  Ibeum, 
fourteen  miles  north  of  the  same  place.  They  are  made 
up  into  a conical  shape,  the  wings  flat,  the  legs  bent 
back  to  the  breast,  the  head  placed  on  the  left  side,  and 
the  beak  under  the  tail ; were  prepared  as  other  mum- 
mies, and  wrapped  up  in  linen  bandages,  which  are 
sometimes  plaited  in  patterns  externally.  At  Thebes 
they  are  found  in  linen  bandages  only;  well  preserved 
at  Ilermopolis  in  wooden  or  stone  boxes  of  oblong  form, 
sometimes  in  form  of  the  bird  itself,  or  the  god  Thoth ; 
at  Memphis,  in  conical  sugar-loaf-shaped  red  earthen- 
ware jars,  the  tail  downwards,  the  cover  of  convex  form, 
cemented  by  lime.  There  appear  to  be  two  sorts  of 
embalmed  ibises — a smaller  one  of  the  size  of  a corn- 
crake, very  black,  and  the  other  black  and  white— the 
Ibis  Xumenius , or  Ibis  religiose.  This  last  is  usually 
found  with  its  eggs,  and  sometimes  with  its  insect  food, 
the  Pimelia pilose,  Aids  rejiexe,  and  portions  of  snakes, 
in  the  stomach.  (Wilkinson,  Manners  end  Customs , v, 
7,  217 ; Passoloegna,  Catalogue  Raisonne,  p.  255;  Petti- 
grew, History  of  Mummies,  p.  205;  Ilorapollo , i,  c.  30, 
30.) — Chambers. 

IbTeam  (Heb.  Yibledm',  people-wester; 

Sept. 'I cifiXaap,  ’lefiXctdp  [but  some  codd.  occasionally 
omit]),  a city  (with  suburban  towns)  within  the  natur- 
al precincts  of  Issacliar,  but  (with  live  others)  assigned 
to  Manasseh  (Josh,  xvii,  11,  where  it  is  mentioned  be- 
tween Beth-shean  and  Dor),  but  from  which  the  Israel- 
ites were  unable  to  expel  the  Canaanites  (Jiulg.  i,  27, 
where  it  is  mentioned  between  Dor  and  Mcgiddo) ; ly- 
ing near  the  pass  of  Gur,  in  the  vicinity  of  Megiddo, 
where  Jehu  slew  Ahaziah  (2  Kings  ix,  27).  It  was  as- 
signed as  a Levitical  city  to  the  family  of  Kohath  (I 
Chron.  vi,  70,  where  it  is  less  correctly  called  Bileam, 
and  mentioned  along  with  Aner  as  lying  within  Mauas- 
seh)  ; compare  Josh,  xxi,  25,  where  it  is  called  Gatij- 
Kijijion  (apparently  by  error;  see  the  Sept.,  and  comp. 
I Chron.  vi,  09).  According  to  Schwarz  (Palest,  p.  148\ 
it  is  the  modern  village  Jebla,  south-west  (north-west) 
of  Beth-shean,  and  about  two  English  miles  south  of 
the  village  Kefrah ; but  no  map  has  this  place,  and  the 
indications  require  a different  position.  See  Grn.  The 
site  is  probably  represented  by  that  of  Jelameh.  a small 
village  about  two  and  a half  miles  north  of  Jenin  (Rob- 
inson, Researches , iii,  1G1). 

Ibn-Aknin,  Josem  ben-Jeiiudah,  called  in  Ar- 
abic Abulhegag  Jussvjf  Ibn-Jahja  Ibn-Shimvn  Alsabti 
Almaghrebi,  a Jewish  philosoper  and  commentator  of 
some  note,  was  born  at  Ceuta  (Arab.  Sebta'),  in  Arabia, 
about  1160.  His  first  religious  training  was,  at  least  to 
all  outside  appearances,  in  the  Mohammedan  religion, 
but  he  was  at  a very  early  age  also  taught  Hebrew,  and 
instructed  in  the  Talmud  and  Hebrew  Scriptures,  so 
that,  as  soon  as  he  arrived  at  years  of  maturity,  he  might 
forsake  the  religion  forced  upon  him  by  the  law  of  the 
country  that  gave  him  birth,  and  return  to  the  faith  of 
his  forefathers.  About  1185,  having  previously  decided 
in  favor  of  the  Jewish  religion,  he  fled  to  Alexandria, 
and  there  became  a zealous  disciple  of  the  great  Moses 
Maimonides,  whose  attention  had  been  called  to  I bn- 


IBX-BALAAM 


456 


IBN-BARUCII 


Aknin  by  a scientific  work  of  his,  and  by  his  Makamen, 
which  he  had  sent  to  Maimonides.  Although  he  re- 
mained with  this  celebrated  Jewish  savant  only  a little 
over  a year,  then  removing  to  Aleppo  to  practice  medi- 
cine, he  had  nevertheless  endeared  himself  so  much  to 
him  that  Maimonides  loved  him  as  his  own  son,  and 
ever  afterwards  labored  to  promote  the  interests  of  his 
beloved  disciple,  and  the  philosophical  work  Moreh-Ne- 
bochim  ( Doctor  perplexorum),  which  Maimonides  (q.v.) 
published  in  1190,  is  often  asserted  to  have  had  for  its 
principal  aim  the  removal  of  certain  sceptical  opinions 
which  I bn- Aknin  cherished  at  that  time.  In  1192,  not- 
withstanding the  frequent  counsels  of  Maimonides  to 
the  contrary,  Ibn-Aknin  went  to  Bagdad,  and  there 
founded  a Rabbinic  college.  After  the  decease- of  his 
great  master  he  figured  quite  prominently  at  the  court 
of  tiie  sultan  Azzahir  Gliasi  of  Damascus,  and  he  deliv- 
ered lectures  at  the  high  schools  on  medicine  and  phi- 
losophy. lie  (lied  about  1226.  Besides  a number  of 
works  on  medicine  and  metaphysics,  he  wrote  Commen- 
tary on  the  Song  of  Songs  (in  Arabic),  now  in  the  Bod- 
leian Library,  Oxford  (Poeocke,  p.  189).  He  espouses 
the  notion  of'the  Talmud,  that  the  Song  of  Songs  is  the 
most  sacred  of  all  the  twenty-four  canonical  books  of 
the  O.  T.,  and  accordingly  explains  it  allegorically  as 
representing  the  relationship  of  God  to  his  people  Israel. 
“ There  are,”  he  says,  “ three  different  modes  of  explain- 
ing this  book : I.  The  literal , which  is  to  be  found  in 
the  philologians  or  grammarians,  e.  g.  Saadia,  Abu  Sa- 
charja  Jahja  ben-David  el  Fasi  (Cliajug),  Abnlwalid 
Ibn  Ganach  of  Saragossa  (Ibn-Ganach),  the  Nagid  R. 
Samuel  Ha-Levi  ben-Nagdilah,  Abn-Ibrahim  ben-Ba- 
ran  (Isaac  ben-Josepli),  Jehudah  ben-Balaam  (Ibn-Ba- 
Iaam),  and  Moses  Ibn-Gikatilla  Ila-Cohen  (Gikatilla)  ; 
2.  The  allegorical , to  be  found  in  the  31  id  rash  Chasit, 
the  Talmud,  and  in  some  of  the  ancient  interpretations; 
and,  3.  The  jdnlosophical  interpretation,  which  regards 
this  book  as  referring  to  the  active  intellect  [j/ofic;  ttoo]- 
rocog],  here  worked  out  for  the  first  time,  and  which, 
though  the  last  in  point  of  time,  is  the  first  of  all  in 
point  of  merit.  These  three  different  explanations  cor- 
respond, in  reverse  order,  to  the  three  different  natures 
of  man,  namely,  to  his  physical,  vital,  and  spiritual  na- 
tures.” Ibn-Aknin  always  gives  the  first  and  second 
explanations  first,  and  then  the  philosophical  interpre- 
tation. The  commentary  is  invaluable  to  the  history 
of  Biblical  literature  and  exegesis,  inasmuch  as  all  the 
interpreters  therein  enumerated  have,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  Saadia,  hitherto  not  been  known  as  commenta- 
tors of  the  Song  of  Songs.  These  expositors  form  an 
important  addition  to  the  history  of  interpretation  given 
by  Ginsburg  ( Historical  and  Critical  Commentary  of  the 
Song  of  Songs,  Longman,  1857).  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  der 
Jnden,  vi,  354, 362 ; vii,  7,  43;  Jost,  Geschichte  d.Juden- 
thums  u.  s.  Selten,  ii,  457 ; iii,  11  ; Kitto,  Cyclop.  Bibli- 
cal Liter,  ii,  349  sq. ; the  ably  written  monograph  of 
Munk,  Notice  sur  Joseph  b.-Jehtnla  (Paris,  1842);  and 
the  very  elaborate  article  of  Steinschneider,  in  Ersch 
und  Gruber’s  Allgemeine  Encyhlopadie,  s.  v.  Joseph  Ibn- 
Aknin. 

Ibn-Balaam,  Jhiiudaii  (in  Arabic  Jahja  Abu- 
Zalcaria ),  a very  distinguished  Jewish  philologian 
and  commentator,  was  born  at  Seville,  in  Spain,  about 
1030.  lie  was  especially  prominent  as  a defender  of 
the  authority  of  the  Massora  (q.v.).  He  died  about 
1100.  His  works  (in  Hebrew)  are:  1.  On  the  Accents 
of  the  Bible , edited  by  Jo.  Mercer  (De  uccentibus  scrip- 
tures prosaicis,  Paris,  1565).  Some  portions  of  this 
book  Ileideuheim  (q.  v.)  incorporated  in  his  “lw3'd73 
• — 2.  On  the  poetical  Accents  of  Job,  Proverbs, 
and  the  Psalms  (Paris,  1556).  It  has  recently  been  re- 
edited,  with  remarks  of  the  most  ancient  grammarians 
upon  these  peculiar  accents,  notes,  and  an  introduction, 
by  J.  G.  Polak  (Amsterdam,  1858)  :_8.  On  the  denomina- 
tive Verbs  in  the  Hebrew  Language.  The  denominatives 
are  arranged  in  alphabetical  order,  and  commented  upon 


in  Arabic.  This  work  has  not  yet  been  published,  bu4 
specimens  of  it,  in  Hebrew,  have  been  printed  by  Leo- 
pold Dukes  in  the  Literaturblatt  des  Orients,  1846,  No. 
42 : — 4.  A Treatise  on  the  Hebrew  Particles,  in  alphabet- 
ical order.  This  work,  too,  has  not  as  yet  been  printed, 
but  specimens  of  it  have  been  published  both  by  Dukes 
and  Burst  in  the  Literaturblatt  des  Orients,  Nos.  29  and 
42.: — 5.  A Treatise  on  the  Hebrew  Homonyms,  in  alphabet- 
ical order,  of  which  extracts  have  been  published  by 
Dukes  in  the  Literaturblatt  des  Orients,  1846,  No.  4: — 
6.  Commentary  on  the  Pentateuch,  written  in  Arabic. 
Though  this  work  has  long  been  known  through  Abcn- 
Ezra,  who  quotes  it  in  his  commentary  on  Gen.  xlix,  6; 
Exod.  v,  19,  3ret  it  is  only  lately  (1851)  that  Dr.  Stein- 
schneider discovered  a MS.  in  the  Bodleian  Library  con- 
taining a commentary  on  Numbers  and  Deuteronomy. 
“Ibn-Balaam  always  gives  the  grammatical  explana- 
tion of  the  words  first ; he  then  enters  into  a minute 
disquisition  on  Saadia’s  translation  and  exposition  of 
the  Pentateuch,  which  he  generally  rejects,  then  ex- 
plains the  passage  according  to  its  context,  and  finally 
sets  forth  the  Halachic  and  the  judicial  interpretation 
of  the  Talmud.  A specimen  of  this  commentary,  which 
is  extremely  important  to  the  Hebrew"  text  and  the 
Massora,  has  been  communicated  by  Adolph  Neubauer 
In  the  Journal  Asiatique  of  December,  1861.  It  is  on 
Deut.  v,  6,  upon  which  Ibn-Balaam  remarks,  ‘As  to  the 
different  readings  of  the  two  Decalogues  (i.  e.Exod.  xx, 
2-17,  and  Dent,  v,  6-21),  Saadia  is  of  opinion  that  they 
contain  two  different  revelations.  He  entertains  the 
same  view  respecting  those  Psalms  which  occur  twice, 
with  some  verbal  variations  (e.  g.  Psa.  xiv  and  liii),  and 
respecting  the  different  readings  of  the  Babylonian  and 
Palestinian  codices.’  We  thus  learn  of  a remarkable 
variation  between  the  Western  and  Eastern  codices 
which  is  not  mentioned  elsewhere,  namely,  that  the 
words  KTUl  DVD  (Zecli.xiv,  2)  are  omitted  in  the  lat- 
ter ; we  discover  why  the  Syriac  version  has  not  these 
words ; and  wc,  moreover,  see  in  what  light  Saadia  and 
others  regarded  the  various  readings”  (Ginsburg  in 
Kitto) : — 7.  Commentary  on  the  Psalms,  frequently  quoted 
by  Aben-Ezra  : — 8.  Commentary  on  the  Song  of  Songs, 
which,  according  to  Ibn-Aknin  (q.v.),  who  quotes  it, 
gives  a literal  exposition  of  this  book  : — 9.  Commentary 
on  Isaiah,  quoted  by  Joseph  Albo  ( Ikarim , sec.  i,  1). 
“Ibn-Balaam, here,  contrary  to  the  generally  received 
opinion,  explains  away  the  Messianic  prophecies,  and 
interprets  Isa.  xi  as  referring  to  Hezekiali.  From  Aben- 
Ezra’s  quotation  on  Zecli.  ix,  7 and  Dan.  x,  1,  it  seems 
as  if  he  had  also  written  commentaries  on  these  books. 
Ibn-Balaam  is  one  of  the  most  liberal  interpreters,  and 
quotes  Christian  commentators  and  the  Koran  in  his 
expositions.”  See  Griitz,  Geschichte  der  Juden,  vi,  83 
sq. ; Jost,  Geschichte  ties  J udenthums  it.  s.  Sekten,  ii,  406 ; 
F first,  Biblioih.  Jud.  i,  81 ; Steinschneider,  Catulogus  Libr. 
Ilebr.  in  Bibliotheca  Bodleiana,  col.  1292-1297 ; IJe-Cha - 
litz  (Lemberg,  1853),  ii,  60  sq. ; Leopold  Dukes,  Beitrage 
zur  Geschichte  der  altesten  Auslegung  und  Spracherldd- 
rung  des  Altai  Testamentes  (Stuttgart,  1844),  ii,  186  sq. ; 
Geiger,  in  the  Jiidische  Zeitschrift  jur  Wissenschuft  und 
Leben,  1862,  p.  292  sq. 

Ibn-Baiuch,  Baruch,  a Jewish  philosopher  and 
commentator,  flourished  at  Venice  in  the  16tli  century". 
But  little  is  known  of  the  history  of  his  life.  lie  pub- 
lished a twofold  eommentarj"  on  Ecclesiastes,  called  both 
Dpp"  rbpp  (the  Congregation  of  Jacob ) and  llipp 
blOwp  (Holy  Israel ) (Venice,  1599),  the  first  of  which 
is  discursive  and  diffuse,  and  the  second  cxegetical  and 
brief.  “ Based  upon  the  first  verse,  ‘ the  words  of  Cohe- 
leth,  son  of  David,  king  in  Jerusalem,’  he  maintains 
that  two  persons  are  speaking  in  its  book,  a sceptic 
named  Coheleth,  and  a believer  called  Ben-David,  and 
accordingly  treats  the  whole  as  a dialogue,  in  which 
these  two  characters  are  shown  to  discuss  the  most  im- 
portant problems  of  moral  philosophy,  and  the  philo- 
sophic systems  of  Greece  and  Arabia  are  made  to  furnish 


IBN-CASPI 


457 


IBN-GANACH 


the  two  heroes  of  the  dialogue  with  the  necessary  phil- 
osophic materials.”  — Ginsburg  in  Kitto.  The  Qucesti- 
ones  disputahe  de  Anima  of  Thomas  Aquinas,  which 
were  translated  into  Hebrew  by  Ali  Xabillo,  are  used  in 
this  work  both  to  put  objections  into  the  mouth  of  the 
sceptic  and  to  furnish  the  believer  with  terse  replies 
(comp,  also  Commentary , 65,  a ; 71,  b ; 96,  a ; 97,  c ; 1 17, 
a;  11S,  b;  119,  a).  It  is  a very  valuable  aid  to  the 
study  of  Jewish  philosophy.  See  Jellincck,  'Thomas  v. 
Aquino  i.  d.jud.  Lit.  (Lpz.  1853),  p.  ii  (13)  and  vii.  (J. 
II  .\V.) 

Ibn-Caspi  or  Caspe,  Joseph  bex-Abba  Mari 
(also  called  Bona foux  de  FA  rgentiere),  an  able  Jewish 
writer,  was  born  of  a wealthy  family  about  1280  at  Ar- 
gentine, in  France.  He  removed  while  quite  young 
to  Taraseon,  and  devoted  his  time  mainly  to  Biblical 
studies.  When  only  seventeen  years  old,  he  published 
as  a result  commentaries  on  Aben-Ezra’s  exposition  of 
the  Pentateuch,  and  on  Ibn-Ganach’s  grammatical  work. 
When  about  thirty  years  old  he  extended  his  range  of 
study  to  metaphysical  subjects,  and  thereafter  became 
an  ardent  admirer  of  Maimonides,  whose  method  of  in- 
terpretation he  also  adopted.  Indeed,  so  far  was  he 
carried  away  in  his  admiration  for  the  great  philosopher 
that  he  emigrated  to  Egypt,  having  decided  to  study 
under  the  descendants  of  Maimonides.  But  he  failed 
to  meet  there  that  great  fountain  of  knowledge  which 
he  supposed  the  followers  of  the  second  great  Moses  ca- 
pable of  supplying,  and,  after  a few  months’  travel  in 
Egypt  and  the  East,  he  returned  to  France.  In  1327 
he  again  set  out  on  a journey  to  promote  his  studies  by 
a residence  at  foreign  high-seliools,  and  lie  visited  Cat- 
alonia, Mallorca,  Aragonia,  and  Valencia,  and  at  one 
time  even  desired  to  go  to  Fez,  having  been  informed 
that  ip  that  African  city  several  noted  Jewish  scholars 
resided,  whose  instructions  he  coveted.  Towards  the 
latter  part  of  1332  Ibn-Caspi  returned  to  his  native 
country,  and  devoted  himself  to  the  production  of  a 
number  of  valuable  exegetical  works.  lie  died  about 
1340.  In  all  he  wrote  some  thirty-six  works,  most  re- 
maining to  us  only  in  MS.  form,  of  which  lists  may  be 
found  in  S.  Jellineck,  C'P"r."  vol.  ii,  1846; 

Dclitzsch  and  Zunz,  Catal.  MS. ; and  in  Fiirst,  BibUoth. 
Jud.  i,  147.  Besides  a commentary  on  Maimonides’s 
More  Xebochim,  his  most  valuable  works  are,  ri'l'TJ 
(or  rV3*V,U  only,  the  word  silver,  being  an 

allusion  to  his  own  name,  *’S5r,  which  is  found  in  the 
titles  of  all  his  works)  ( small  silver  chains  or  roots),  a 
Hebrew  Dictionary,  which  is  one  of  his  most  interesting 
and  important  works.  44  He  starts  from  the  principle 
that  every  root  has  only  one  general  idea  as  its  basis, 
and  logically  deduces  from  it  all  the  other  shades  of 
meaning.  A copy  of  this  work  in  MS.,  2 vols.  4to,  is  in 
the  Paris  library,  and  another  in  the  Angelica  at  Iiome. 
Abrabanel  frequently  quotes  it  in  his  commentary  on 
the  Pentateuch  (comp.  p.  7),  on  Isaiah  (comp,  xlv,  3; 
lxvi,  17),  etc. ; Wolf  gives  a specimen  of  it  ( Bibliotheca 
Hebnen,  i,  1543);  Bicliard  Simon  used  the  Paris  MS.  ' 
(Jlist.  Crit.  lib.  i,  cap.  xxxi),  and  Leopold  Dukes  print- 
ed extracts  from  it  (Literaturblatt  ties  Orients,  1847,  p. 
480) : — A Commentary  on  Proverbs,  the  Song  of  Songs, 
and  Ecclesiastes.  “Of  the  commentary  on  Proverbs, 
which  is  one  of  Ibn-Caspi’s  most  valuable  contributions 
to  Biblical  exegesis,  the  beginning  and  end  have  been 
published  by  Werblumer  (comp.  tpD  PSlSp,  1846,  p. 
19, etc.);  an  analysis  of  the  commentary  on  Ecclesiastes 
is  given  by  Ginsburg  (compare  Historical  and  Critical 
Commentary  on  Ecclesiastes,  Longman,  1861,  p.  60,  etc.), 
and  the  brief  commentary  on,  or,  rather,  introduction  to 
the  Song  of  Songs,  which  was  published  in  1577,  but 
which  is  rarer  than  the  MSS.,  has  been  reprinted  with 
an  English  translation  by  Ginsburg  in  his  Historical 
and  Critical  Commentary  on  the  Song  of  Songs  (London, 
1857,  p.  47,  etc.)  — pC"  r.'L:~  ( silver  staves'),  or  com- 
mentary on  eight  prophets,  in  which  he  attacks  with 


great  severity  those  who  explain  these  prophecies  as  re- 
ferring to  the  Messiah  [see  Ibx-Daxax]  : — poa  (a 

silver  cup),  or  commentary  on  the  miracles  and  other 
mysteries  found  in  the  Pentateuch,  Prophets,  and  lla- 
giographa.  His  principles  of  interpretation  he  laid 
down  clearly  in  his  commentary  on  the  Proverbs  above 
mentioned  in  these  words  : " The  sacred  Scriptures 
must  be  explained  according  to  their  plain  and  literal 
sense;  and  a recondite  meaning  can  as  little  be  intro- 
duced into  them  as  into  Aristotle’s  writings  on  logic 
and  natural  history.  Only  where  the  literal  meaning 
is  not  sufficient,  and  reason  rejects  it,  a deeper  sense 
must  be  resorted  to.  If  we  once  attempt  to  allegorize  a 
simple  and  intelligible  passage,  then  we  might  just  as 
well  do  it  with  the  whole  contents  of  the  Bible.”  44  The 
logical  division  of  sentences  is  the  most  indispensable 
and  best  auxiliary  to  the  right  understanding  of  the 
Bible,  and  the  criterion  to  the  proper  order  of  the  words 
are  the  Massora  and  the  accents .”  It  is  evident  from 
this  extract  that  Ibn-Caspi  anticipated  the  hermeneu- 
tical rules  of  modern  criticism  at  a time  when  the  school- 
men and  the  depositaries  of  Christian  learning  were 
engaged  in  hair-splitting  and  in  allegorizing  every  fact 
of  the  Bible.  It  is  greatly  to  be  regretted  that  most  of 
his  exegetical  works  are  left  unpublished.  See  Gins- 
burg, in  Kitto,  Bill.  Cyclop,  ii,  351  sq. ; Griitz,  Gesch.  d. 
Juden,  vii,  361  sq. ; Kirchlicim,  Werblumer's  Edition  of 
Ibn-Caspi  s Commentary  on  Maimonides' s More  Xebo- 
chim (Frankfort-on-tlie-Maine,  1848), p.  10  sq.;  Leopold 
Dukes,  in  the  Literaturb.  des  Orients,  1848;  and  Schnei- 
der, in  Ersch  n.  Gruber’s  Allgem.  Encyklop.  sec.  ii,  xxxi, 
58  sq. 

Ibn-Chajim,  Aaron,  a Jewish  commentator,  was 
born  at  Fez,  Africa,  about  1570.  But  little  is  known  of 
his  personal  history.  His  works  are,  a Commentary  on 
Joshua  (Venice,  1608-9),  from  which  a selection  was 
made  by  Frankfurter  (q.  v.)  in  his  great  Babbinic  Bi- 
ble : — a commentary  on  Sifra  (tradition  of  Leviticus), 
published  under  the  title  of  The  Oblation  of  Aaron 
(Venice,  1609-11)  : — Tim  Rules  of  Aaron,  a treatise  on 
B.  Ishmael’s  (q.  v.)  thirteen  rules  for  interpreting  the 
O.-T.  Scriptures  (Vcn.  1609,  Drcs.  1712). — Kitto,  Bibl. 
Cyclop,  ii,  352. 

Ibn-Danan,  Saadia  ben-Mat  jion,  a Jewish  writer 
of  some  distinction,  was  Babbi  to  the  congregation  at 
Granada  previous  to  the  cession  of  this  country  by  the 
Moors  to  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  and  the  expatriation 
of  the  Jews.  He  was  born  in  the  first  half  of  the  loth 
century,  and  flourished  at  Granada  from  1460  to  1502. 
He  was  especially  given  to  the  study  of  the  Talmud 
and  history,  and  as  a residt  of  the  former  we  have  sev- 
eral works  on  the  interpretation  of  the  O.-T.  Scriptures, 
aud  the  elucidation  of  the  language  of  the  original.  His 
exegetical  works  are,  a Commentary  on  Isaiah  liii,  13 
(MS.  Michael,  4L2),  in  which  he  takes  ground  against 
Ibn-Caspi  (q.  v.) : — a Hebrew  Lexicon  (written  in  Ar- 
abic). This  work,  which  he  is  thought  to  have  com- 
pleted in  1468,  also  remains  only  in  MS.  form,  but  an 
extract  from  it  has  been  printed  by  Pinsker  in  his  Li- 
Tcute  Kadmonioth  (Vienna.  1860),  p.  74.  His  historical 
works  are,  A , short  History  of  the  Jeics  to  the  Days  of 
Moses  Maimonides  (“‘"in  “!K2 ),  which  he  originally  in- 
tended for  his  own  pupils,  of  whom  he  seems  to  have 
had  a number.  See  Griitz,  Gescliichte  d.  Juden,  viii,  345 
sq. ; Edelmann,  Chemda  Genusa,  Introd.  p.  xvii  sq..  and 
Text,  p.  13  sq. ; Kitto,  Bibl.  Cyclop,  ii,  352.  (J.  H.  VV.) 

Ibn-Daud.  See  Ciiajlg. 

Xbn-Djanah.  Sec  Ibn-Gaxacu. 

Ibnei'ah  (Ileb.  Yihneyah’,  PP22%  Jehovah  will 
build  him  up;  Sept,  ’lefivaa),  a son  of  Jeroham,  who, 
with  other  Benjamites,  returned  to  Jerusalem  after  the 
Captivity  (1  Chron.  ix,  8).  B.C.  536. 

Ibn-Ezra.  See  Aben-Ezra. 

Ibn-Ganach,  Abulwaud  Merwan  or  Jonah 


IBN-GAXACH 


458 


TBN-GIATH 


Djaxah  (in  Hebrew  called  Jonah),  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  Jewish  scholars  of  the  Middle  Ages,  was 
born  at  Cordova  about  995.  While  yet  a boy  he  evinced 
his  fondness  for  Hebrew  by  writing  verses  in  that  lan- 
guage, but  as  he  continued  in  his  studies  he  determined 
to  devote  his  whole  life  to  the  advancement  of  the  He- 
brew as  a philological  study,  and  even  abandoned  the 
practice  of  medicine,  which  he  had  chosen  as  his  pro- 
fession after  his  removal  to  Saragossa  in  1015,  whither 
he  had  been  forced  by  the  persecutions  which  the  Jews 
of  Cordova  suffered  at  the  hand  of  Al-Mostain  Sulei- 
man since  his  occupation  of  that  place  in  1013.  He 
soon  acquired  a proficiency  which  even  in  our  day  has 
not  been  excelled,  and  he  deserves  greater  praise  than 
any  other  Jewish  scholar  on  account  of  the  impulse  he 
gave  both  to  his  contemporaries  and  to  his  immediate 
successors  (among  them  the  two  Kimchis  and  Aben- 
Ezra),  who  have  frequently  acknowledged  their  obliga- 
tions to  him.  The  thorough  manner  in  which  he  con- 
ducted his  investigations  enabled  him  to  accomplish 
much  more  than  his  illustrious  predecessor  Chajug  (q. 
v.),  and  by  his  criticism  of  Chajug’s  works,  in  which  he 
readily  acknowledged  all  that  was  meritorious,  he  fre- 
quently encountered  the  ardent  followers  of  that  great 
master,  and  became  entangled  in  a number  of  controver- 
sies, which  finally  resulted  beneficially  to  Hebrew  phi- 
lology. He  died  about  1050.  His  first  great  work  in 
linguistics  is  his  Kit  ah  el-Tankieh  (‘‘book  of  inquiry”), 
written  in  Arabic  (the  native  tongue  in  his  day  of  that 
part  of  Spain),  consisting  of  two  great  parts,  the  first, 
Kitab  d-Lnmu'  ("book  of  variegated  fields”),  treating 
at  length  of  Hebrew  grammar,  and  the  second,  Kitab 
el-Azul  (“book  of  roots”),  a Hebrew  Dictionary,  which 
was  afterwards  translated  into  Hebrew  by  several  Jew- 
ish scholars,  but  of  which  only  the  translations  made 
by  Ibn-Parchon  and  hv  Ibn-Tibbon  are  preserved.  The 
original  is  at  Oxford  (MS.  I re,  Xo.  456,  457),  and  was 
extensively  used  by  Gesenius  in  his  Thesaurus.  Speci- 
mens of  it  which  Gesenius  gave  in  his  Diet,  of  the  Htb. 
Lain/,  were  translated  by  Dr.  Robinson,  and  published 
in  tiie  A mer.  Bib.  Repository,  1833.  That  part  of  this 
work  which  refers  to  Hebrew  grammar  was  published 
by  Ivirehheim  (Frank  f.  a.’M.  1856, 8vo).  “ This  gigan- 

tic work  is  the  most  important  philological  production 
in  Jewish  literature  of  the  Middle  Ages.  The  mas- 
tery of  the  science  of  the  Hebrew  language  in  all  its 
delicate  points  which  Ibn-Ganach  therein  displays,  the 
lucid  manner  in  which  he  explains  every  grammatical 
difficulty,  and  the  sound  exegetical  rules  which  he 
therein  propounds,  have  few  parallels  up  to  the  present 
day.  He  was  not  only  the  creator  of  the  Hebrew  syn- 
tax, but  almost  brought  it  to  perfection.  He  was  the 
first  who  pointed  out  the  ellipses  and  the  transposition 
of  letters,  words,  and  verses  in  the  Hebrew  Bible,  and 
explained  in  a simple  and  natural  manner  more  than 
two  hundred  obscure  passages,  which  had  up  to  his 
time  greatly  perplexed  all  interpreters,  by  showing  that 
the  sacred  writers  used  abnormal  for  normal  expressions 
(compare  "ISO,  ch.  xxviii;  Aben-Ezra’s  Com- 

mentary on  Daniel  i,  1,  and  rTIU  “S3,  ed.  Lippmann, 
p.  72,  note).  Though  his  faith  in  the  inspiration  of  the 
Hebrew  Scriptures  was  absolute,  yet  he  maintained 
that,  being  addressed  to  men,  they  are  subject  to  the 
laws  of  language,  and  hence  urged  that  the  abnormal 
expressions  and  forms  in  the  Bible  are  not  to  be  ascribed 
to  the  ignorance  of  transcribers  and  punctuators,  nor  to 
wilful  corruption,  but  are  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  sa- 
cred writers,  being  human,  paid  the  tribute  of  human- 
ity.” But  also  in  metaphysics  Ibn-Ganaeli  was  no 
tyro,  and  he  speaks  of  Plato  and  Aristotle  like  one  who 
had  studied  them  diligently.  He  wrote  a work  on 
logic,  Aristotelian  in  principle,  and  strenuously  opposed 
the  efforts  of  his  contemporaries,  especially  Ibn-Gebirol, 
in  their  metaphysical  investigations  on  the  relation  of 
God  to  the  world,  holding  that  those  inquiries  only  en- 
dangered the  belief  in  the  Scriptures.  See  Munk,  Xn- 
tice  sur  A.  M.  Ibn-Djanah  (Paris,  1851) ; Griitz,  Gescli. 


d.  Juden,  vi,  25  sq.,  205  sq. ; Furst,  Ilebr.  Diet.  Introd. 
p.  xxx  sq. ; Kitto,  Cyclop.  of  Bibl.  Lit.  ii,  354  sq. ; Furst, 
Biblioth.  Jud.  i,  315. 

Ibn-Gebirol  or  Gabirol,  Salomon  ben-Jehu- 
dah,  a very  distinguished  Jewish  philosopher,  commen- 
tator, and  grammarian,  as  well  as  hymnologist,  was  bom 
at  Malaga,  in  Spain,  about  1021.  When  only  nineteen 
years  of  age  he  evinced  his  great  skill  as  a poet,  and  his 
thorough  acquaintance  with  Hebrew  grammar  by  writ- 
ing a grammar  of  the  Hebrew  language  in  Hebrew 
verse.  It  has  never  been  printed  entire,  but  parts  of  it 
have  been  published  by  Parchon  in  his  Hebrew  Lexicon 
(Paris,  1844),  and  by  Leop.  Dukes,  in  his  Shire  Slielomo 
(Hannov.  1858).  About  1045  Ibn-Gebirol  published  his 
first  philosophical  work,  which  was  translated  ’by  Ibn- 
Tibbon  into  Hebrew,  entitled  'rEitl  riT^72  j^Fl  (pub- 
lished in  1550  and  often).  He  propounds  in  this  work 
“ a peculiar  theory  of  the  human  temperament  and  pas- 
sions, enumerates  twenty  propensities  corresponding  to 
the  four  dispositions  multiplied  by  the  five  senses,  and 
shows  how  the  leaning  of  the  sold  to  the  one  side  may 
be  brought  to  the  moral  equipoise  by  observing  the 
declarations  of  Scripture,  and  ethical  sayings  of  the 
Talmud,  which  he  largely  quotes,  and  which  he  inter- 
sperses with  the  chief  sayings  of  ‘the  divine’  Socrates, 
his  pupil  Plato,  Aristotle,  the  Arabic  philosophers,  and 
especially  with  the  maxims  of  a Jewish  moral  philoso- 
pher called  Chefez  Al-Ivnte,  who  is  the  author  of  an  Ar- 
abic paraphrase  of  the  Psalms  in  rhyme  (Steinschnei- 
der,  Jewish  Literature  [Loud.  1857],  p.  101).”  But  as 
this  work  contained  also  personal  allusions  to  some  lead- 
ing men  of  Saragossa,  he  was  expatriated  in  1046.  Af- 
ter travelling  from  one  place  to  another,  he  finally  found 
a protector  in  the  celebrated  Samuel  Ha-Nagid,  a Jew 
also,  then  prime  minister  of  Spain,  and  he  was  enabled 
to  continue  his  philosophical  studies,  as  the  result  of 
which  he  produced  The  Fountain  of  I Afe,  his  greatest 
] work.  Fragments  of  a Hebrew  translation  and  an  en- 
tire Latin  version  of  it  were  published  by  Munk  in  his 
Melanges  de  philosophic  Jit  ire  etArabe  (Paris,  1857-59). 
He  died  in  1070.  The  influence  which  Ibn-Gebirol  ex- 
erted on  Arabian  and  Jewish  philosophy  cannot  be  too 
highly  estimated.  He  certainly  deserves  to  be  called 
, *•  the  Jewish  P’lato,”  as  Griitz  chooses  to  name  him  ; but 
the  assertion  that  lie  was  the  first  philosopher  of  the 
Middle  Ages,  and  that  his  philosophical  treatises  were 
used  by  the  scholastic  philosophers,  is  an  error,  as 
Lewis  ( History  of  Philosophy,  ii,  63)  fully  proves,  al- 
though Munk,  and  after  him  Griitz,  fell  into  the  same 
mistake,  as  also  Ginsburg,  the  writer  of  the  article  on 
Ibn-Gebirol  in  Kitto  {Bibl.  Cydop.  ii,  356).  From  fre- 
quent quotations  in  Aben-Ezra’s  commentaries,  it  semis 
that  Ibn-Gebirol  must  also  have  written  some  exposi- 
tions of  the  Old-Test.  Scriptures,  though  none  such  are 
known  to  us  at  present  existing.  Ibn-Gebirol  also  had 
a natural  talent  for  verse-making.  One  of  his  hymns, 
1 entitled  The  royal  Diadem,  “a  beautiful  and  pathetic 
poetical  composition  of  profound  philosophical  senti- 
ments and  great  devotion,  forms  an  important  part  of 
the  divine  service  on  the  evening  preceding  the  great 
Day  of  Atonement  with  the  devout  Jews  to  the  present 
day.”  See  Griitz,  Geschidite  d.  Juden,  vi,  31  sq. ; Sachs, 
Religiose  Poesie  d.  Juden  i.  Spanion  (Berl.  1845),  p.3  sq., 
213,  etc.;  Zunz,  Synagogale  Poesie  dcr  Mitidaltus,  p. 
222 ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  i,  320  sq. 

Ibn-Giatll,  Isaac  bex-Jeiiudau,  a Jewish  Rabbi 
of  a very  distinguished  family  who  resided  in  Luccna,  not 
far  from  Cordova,  was  born  about  1030.  He  was  a very 
able  philosopher  and  hymnologist,  and  well  conversant 
with  the  Talmud.  He  is  said  to  have  written  a Com- 
mentary on  Ecclesiastes,  which  has  not  as  yet  come  to 
light.  From  the  frequent  quotations  made  from  it  by 
the  best  interpreters  and  lexicographers,  it  appears  that 
it  contained  important  contributions  to  the  critical  expo- 
sition of  this  difficult  book.  From  the  references  to  his 
writings  made  by  Aben-Ezra  (comp,  comment,  on  Dent, 
x,  7 ; Psa.  cxlvii,  3),  Kimclii  (Lexicon,  under  articles 


IBN-GIKATILLA 


459 


IBN-LATIF 


pn^J,  na?,  rvaa>,  ?S3,  “CT),  and  Solomon  ben- 
Melech  (comment,  on  2 Sam.xxii,36),it  is  evident  that 
Ibn-Giath  must  have  also  written  some  other  exegetic- 
al  and  grammatical  treatises,  ami  that  he  materially 
contributed  to  the  development  of  Biblical  exegesis. 
Ilia  devotional  poetry,  which  is  rather  inferior  to  Ibn- 
Gcbirol’s  (q.  v.),  is  used  in  the  Jewish  service  to  the 
present  day.  He  died  in  1089.  See  Zuuz,  Synagogale 
Poesie  d.  Mittelalters,  p.  225  sq. ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  i, 
332  sq. ; Sachs,  Die  Religiose  Poesie  d.  Juden  in  Spanien 
(Berlin,  1845),  p.  4G,  etc.,  255,  etc. ; Landsliut,  A mude 
Aboda  (Berl.  1857),  fasciculus  i,  111,  etc.;  Griitz,  Uesch. 
der  Juden , vi,  74. 

Ibn-Gikatilla.  See  Joseph  Ibs-Ciiiquitilla. 

Ibm'jak  (lleb.  Yibniyah ',  i.  q.  Ibneiah; 

Sept.  Itfictvacti),  the  father  of  Reuel,  which  latter  was 
the  grandfather  of  the  Meshullam,  another  Bcnjamite, 
who  settled  in  Jerusalem  after  the  return  from  Baby- 
lon (1  Chron.  ix,  8).  B.C.  long  ante  536. 

Ibn-Jachja,  David,  a Jewish  scholar,  was  born 
about  1410.  lie  was  a Rabbi  at  Lisbon,  in  Portugal, 
and  had  gained  great  celebrity  by  his  scholarship  when 
he  was  suddenly  accused  of  giving  aid  to  the  Spanish 
Maranes  (q.  v.),  who,  having  witnessed  the  peculiar 
practices  of  the  Spanish  disciples  of  Christ,  preferred  to 
return  to  the  faith  of  their  fathers.  Ibn-Jachja  >vas 
condemned  to  death,  and  barely  escaped  the  punish- 
ment by  a flight  to  Naples.  Later,  he  removed  to  Con- 
stantinople, and  taught  the  sciences.  lie  died  in  1504. 
His  works  are,  Leshon  Limmodim,  a large  Hebrew  gram- 
mar ; and  Shekel  JIakkodesk,  on  the  metric  and  poetical 
laws  of  the  new  Hebrew  dialect.  See  Carmoly,  Die 
Jachjiden,  p.  17 ; Griitz,  Gesch.  der  Juden , ix,  3 ; Ether- 
idge, Lit  rod.  to  lleb.  Lit.  p.  462;  Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  ii, 
2 sq. 

Ibn-Jachja,  Gedalja,  a Jewish  historian,  was 
born  at  Imola  about  1515.  He  deserves  mention  here 
on  account  of  his  work  Shalsheleth  llukkabala,  or  Chain 
of  Tradition  (Zolkicw,  1804).  It  is  a history  of  the 
jews,  and  is  divided  into  three  parts,  of  which  part  first 
only  is  the  Shalsheleth,  or  literary  chronicle  of  rabbinism ; 
the  other  parts  treat  not  only  of  history  proper,  but  in- 
clude also  natural  history,  pneumatology,  and  economics. 
He  died  about  1587. — Carmoly,  Die  Jachjiden,  p.  33  sq. ; 
Griitz,  Gesch.  der  Juden,  ix,  435 ; Etheridge,  Introd.  to 
lleb.  Lit.  p.  452 ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  ii,  3. 

Ibn-Jachja,  Joseph  b. -David,  a distinguished 
Jewish  commentator,  was  born  at  Florence  in  1494.  His 
ancestors  were  citizens  of  Spain,  but  had  fled  from  the 
Iberian  Peninsula  on  account  of  the  religious  persecu- 
tions which  the  Jews  had  to  suffer,  especially  under 
John  II.  Ilis  education  he  received  first  at  Verona, 
then  at  Imola  and  Padua,  and  he  settled  at  Imola.  He 
died,  exhausted  by  excessive  studies,  in  1539,  His 
works  are,  commentaries  on  the  Song  of  Songs,  Ruth, 
Lamentations,  Ecclesiastes,  and  Esther;  Psalms,  Prov- 
erbs, and  Daniel  (transl.  into  Latin  by  Constantin  1’Etn- 
pereur  [Amsterdam,  1633],  with  the  Hebrew  text  and  a 
refutation  of  anti-Christian  passages).  A special  fea- 
ture of  these  commentaries,  which  are  all  inserted  in 
Frankfurter’s  Rabbinical  Bible,  is  the  midrasliic  lore 
contained  in  them,  which  is  valuable  to  the  historico- 
critical  exegetist.  Ibn-Jachja  wrote  also  Torah,  or 
“ The  Law  of  Light ” (Bologna,  1538),  a very  valuable 
work  on  the  theology  of  Judaism,  in  which  he  rejects 
the  introduction  of  philosophy  in  the  consideration  of 
religious  topics.  See  Griitz,.  Gesch.  der  Juden,  ix,  235 ; 
Etheridge,  Introd.  to  lleb.  Lit.  p.  452 ; Jost,  Israelitische 
A nnalen,  ii,  393  sq. ; Ersoh  n.  Gruber’s  .4  llgcm.  Encyklop. 
sec.  ii,  xxxi,  81  sq. ; Kitto,  Cyclop,  of  Bibl.  Lit.  ii,  356; 
Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  ii,  4. 

Ibn-Jaish,  Baruch,  a Jewish  scholar,  flourished 
at  Cordova,  in  Spain,  in  the  15th  century.  He  wrote 
commentaries  on  the  Song  of  Songs  ( The  blessed  Foun- 
tain, etc.,  Constantinople,  1576),  and  on  Ecclesiastes  and 


Job  ( The  blessed  Fountain  of  Job  and  Ecclesiastes,  Con- 
stantinople, 1576).  “ He  generally  gives  the  literal  ex- 
planation of  every  passage  according  to  the  context, 
and  tries  to  solve  the  grammatical  difficulties  of  the 
text.” — Kitto,  Cyclop,  of  Bibl.  Literature,  ii,  357 , Fiirst, 
Biblioth.  Jud.  ii,  12. 

Ibn-Kastor.  See  Itzciiaki. 

Ibn-Koreish,  JEUunAH,oue  of  the  earliest  Jewish 
lexicographers,  flourished  in  the  latter  half  of  the  9th 
century  at  Tuhart  or  Tahort,  in  Africa,  and  was  one  of 
the  first  who  wrote  on  comparative  philology.  He  was 
thoroughly  conversant  not  only  with  the  Berber  tongue, 
but  also  with  the  three  Shemitic  languages;  he  had 
carefully  studied  the  traditions  of  the  Jews  and  the  Mo- 
hammedans, and  was  eminently  qualified  to  write  on  the 
Hebrew  language,  and  introduce  frequent  comparisons 
with  the  other  Shemitic  tongues.  His  works  are, 
jilSX,  a Hebrew  lexicon  in  alphabetical  order,  but  with 
that  peculiar  arrangement  which  all  works  of  this  class 
were  subject  to  at  that  time,  viz.  each  group  of  words 
belonging  to  a letter  was  accompanied  by  introductions, 
one  on  those  words  which  have  only  the  letter  in  question 
for  a radical  theme,  and  another  on  the  changes  of  that 
letter.  The  work  has  been  lost,  but  its  existence  is  at- 
tested by  the  fact  that  not  only  the  author  himself  re- 
fers to  it  in  another  of  his  works,  but  also  the  great 
scholars  of  his  and  subsequent  periods; — Risdlet  (lleb. 

or  a letter  addressed  to  his  Jewish  brethren  at 
Fez,  in  which  he  exhorts  them  to  continue  the  study  of 
the  Aramaic  Targum,  and  of  the  Aramaic  as  well  as  the 
Shemitic  languages,  without  a thorough  knowledge  of 
which  the  Old-Test.  Scriptures  can  only  be  imperfectly 
comprehended.  After  the  introduction  lie  divided  the 
work  into  three  parts.  In  Part  I he  arranged  in  alpha- 
betic order  all  difficult  Hebrew  words  that  could  only 
be  properly  understood  from  the  Chaldee  paraphrases 
of  Onkelos  and  Jonathan  ben-Uziel.  Part  II  contained 
an  explanation  of  Biblical  Hebrew  words  found  also  in 
the  Mishna  and  the  Talmud.  In  Part  III  he  instituted 
a comparison  with  the  Arabic  of  all  analogous  Hebrew 
roots,  forms  of  expressions,  prefixes  and  suffixes,  etc. 
This  work  is  certainly  a very  important  contribution  to 
Hebrew  philology,  and  it  is  only  to  be  regretted  that 
we  do  not  possess  it  completely,  since  the  first  part 
breaks  up  with  letter  2,  and  does  not  begin  again  till 
letter  n,  from  which  Fiirst  (Ilebr.  Diet.  vol.  xxiii)  in- 
fers that  the  author  intended  it  only  as  a continuation 
of  his  (lost)  Hebrew  Dictionary.  It  has  lately  been  pub- 
lished in  the  Arabic  under  the  title  Epistola  de  studii 
Targum  utilitate  et  de  linguie  Chaldaicee,  Misnica>,  Tal- 
mndicce,  A rabicie,  rocabulorum  item  nonnullorum  bar- 
baricorum  convenientia  cum  Ilebr  tea  ; ediderunt  J.  J.  L. 
Barges  et  l).  R.  Goldberg  (Paris,  1857).  The  introduc- 
tion, with  specimens  from  the  work,  have  been  publish- 
ed in  Arabic,  with  a German  translation  by  Schnurrer, 
in  Eichhom’s  Allgem.  Bibliothek  d.  Biblisch.  Literatur 
( Lpz.  1790),  iii,  951  sq. ; the  introduction  has  also  been 
published  with  a German  translation  by  Wetstein  in 
the  Literaturblatt  des  Orients  (1845),  iii,  2 ; and  extracts 
are  given  by  Ewahl  and  Dukes,  Beitrage  zur  Geschielite 
d.  Aeltesten  Ausleguny  und  Spracherklarung  d.  A.  Test. 
(Stuttgart,  1844),  i,  1 16-23 ; ii,  117, 118.  He  wrote  also 
“Sp.  a Hebrew  grammar,  which  Aben-Ezra 
used  in  the  preparation  of  his  own  work.  See,  besides 
the  works  already  referred  to,  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  v, 
293 ; Kitto,  Cyclop.  Biblical  Lit.  ii,  357 ; Fiirst,  Biblioth. 
Jud.  ii,  203. 

Ibn-Latif  or  Allatif,  Isaac  ben- Abraham,  a Jew- 
ish  philosopher,  was  bom  in  Southern  Spain  about  12/0. 
But  little  is  known  of  his  personal  history.  He  devoted 
much  of  his  time  to  the  study  of  the  Cabala,  and  be- 
came one  of  its  most  celebrated  exponents  in  Spain. 
With  greater  correctness  than  C’abalists  who  preceded 
him,  he  advocated  the  doctrine  that  the  worlds  of  spirit 
and  of  matter  are  closely  allied,  and  likewise  God  and 


IBN-LIBRAT 


460 


IBZAN 


his  creation.  The  divine  is  in  everything,  and  every- 
thing in  the  divine.  He  also  believed  in  the  power  of 
prayer,  but  that  man,  in  order  to  be  accepted  of  God, 
must  approach  at  least  perfection;  hence  the  most  per- 
fect of  men,  the  prophets,  interceded  by  prayer  for  the 
people.  The  development  of  the  self-revelation  of  the 
divinity  in  the  world,  of  the  spirits,  spheres,  and  bod- 
ies, Ibii-Latif  explains  by  mathematical  formulas.  He 
died  about  1290.  Of  his  works,  which  are  quite  numer- 
ous, the  following  have  been  printed  : Iggereth  hat-To- 
skubah,  replies  to  the  questions  of  Judah  ben-Naason 
(Prague,  1839,  8vo) : — a Heb.  Commentary  on  Ecclesi- 
astes (Constantinople,  s.  a.  8vo).  See  Griitz,  Geschichte 
d.  Jnden,  vii,  220 ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Judaica,  ii,  224 ; Oar- 
moly,  Revue  Orientale , i,  61  sq. 

Ibn-Librat.  See  Dux  ash. 

Ibn-Saktar.  See  Itzchaki. 

Ibn-Sargado,  Aarox,  also  called  Aaron  Ha- 
Cohex  ben-Joseph,  a Jewish  scholar,  flourished  in  Bag- 
dad towards  the  middle  of  the  10th  century.  He  was  a 
wealthy  merchant,  but  very  fond  of  study,  and,  taking 
ground  against  Saaclia  (q.  v.),  for  whose  deposition  from 
the  “ Gaonate”  he  expended  large  sums  of  money,  short- 
ly after  Saadia's  decease  he  was  elected  Gaon  (spiritual 
head)  of  the  academy  at  Pumbadita  (943),  and  by  his 
zeal  for  learning  and  his  great  wealth  greatly  furthered 
the  interests  of  this  academy  at  the  expense  of  the  Su- 
ran  school,  over  which  Saadia  had  presided.  Ibn-Sar- 
gado,  during  the  eighteen  years  of  his  presidency,  de- 
voted himself  not  only  to  the  exposition  of  the  O.-Test. 
Scriptures,  but  also  quite  extensively  to  the  study  of 
philosophy  (comp.  Munk,  Guide  des  eg  fires,  i,  462).  He 
wrote  a philosophical  work  and  a Commentary  on  the 
Pentateuch , but  they  are  not  as  yet  known  to  us.  From 
the  fragments  of  the  latter  preserved  by  Aben-Ezra 
(Gen.  xviii,  28;  xxxiv,  30;  xlix,  6,  7 ; Exod.  x,  12 ; Lev. 
xviii,  6),  we  see  that,  though  abiding  bv  the  traditional 
explanation  of  the  Hebrew  Scriptures,  Ibn-Sargado  was 
by  no  means  a slavish  follower  of  ancient  opinions.  See 
Griitz,  Gesch.  der  Juden , v,  335  sq.;  Kitto,  Cyclop.  Bib. 
Lit.  ii,  357 ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  iii,  246 ; Geiger,  Ju- 
dische  Zeitsch rift  fur  Wissenschaft  uml  Leben  (1862),  p. 
297 ; Zunz,  in  Geiger’s  Zeitsckrift,  vol.  iv  (Stuttg.  1839), 
p.  389,  etc. 

Ibn-Saruk.  See  Menachem. 

Ibn-Shoeib,  Joet,,  a Jewish  commentator,  flour- 
ished at  Tudela  in  the  latter  half  of  the  15th  century. 
But  little  is  known  of  his  personal  history.  His  works 
show  him  to  have  been  a man  of  considerable  culture 
and  great,  liberality  of  mind,  lie  wrote  commentaries 
on  the  Pentateuch,  entitled  The  Holocaust  of  Sabbath 
(Veu.  1577);  on  the  Psalms,  entitled  Fearful  in  Praises 
(Salonaica,  1568-69) ; on  the.  Song  of  Songs,  entitled  A 
brief  Exposition  (Sabionetta,  1558);  and  an  Exposition 
of  Lamentations  (Venice,  1589).  In  his  commentary  on 
the  Psalms  he  maintained  that  pious  Gentiles  would 
have  a share  in  the  world  to  come,  which,  when  we  con- 
sider the  severe  persecutions  they  inflicted  at  this  time 
on  the  Jews,  is  by  no  means  a small  concession  on  the 
part  of  Ibn-Shoeib. — Kitto,  Cyclop,  of  Bib.  Lit.  ii,  358; 
Zunz,  Zur  Gesch.  u.  Literatur  (Berl.  1845),  p.  384,  (J. 

II.  W.) 

Ibn-Sitta  (StISM  “p),  a distinguished  Jew,  flour- 
ished at  Irak  towards  the  close  of  the  9th  century.  He 
wrote  a commentary  on  the  Seriptures,  of  which  frag- 
ments only  are  left.  Such  we  find  in  Aben-Ezra  (on 
Exod.  xxi,  24,  35;  xxii,  28).  Saadia  Gaon  thought 
Ibn-Sitta  of  sufficient  importance  to  refute  his  inteqire- 
tations,  while  Aben-Ezra  exercises  his  withering  sarcasm 
upon  him. — Kitto,  Cyclop.  ofBibl.  Lit.  ii,  358;  Pinsker, 
Likhite  Kiulmonioth  (Vienna,  1860),  p.  43 ; Fiirst,  Gesch. 
d.  Karaerthums  (Lpz.  1862),  p.  100, 173. 

Ibn-Thofeil,  an  Arabian  philosopher  who  flour- 
ished in  the  Pith  eentury,  wrote  a work  in  which  the 
existence  of  God  is  proved  in  so  able  a manner  that  the 


arguments  remain  unrefuted  to  this  day.  It  was  trans- 
lated into  Persian,  Hebrew,  and  Latin.  The  last-named, 
by  Ed.  Poeoeke,  was  entitled  Philosophus  autodidactus , 
sice  ejnstola  Abi  Jaafor  Ebn-Topkail  de  I/ai  Ebn-Yok- 
dham  (Oxf.  1671  and  1700,  4to;  and  also  in  English  by 
S.  Ockley,  Lond.  1708, 1731,  8vo,  and  other  modem  lan- 
guages).— Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxv,  752. 

Ibn-Tibbon,  Jehudah  ben -Saul,  a Jewish 
scholar  of  Spanish  descent,  was  born  at  Lunel,  France, 
about  1 1 20.  He  was  educated  a physician,  but  his  ardent 
love  for  the  study  of  Hebrew  led  him  to  abandon  the 
practice  of  his  profession,  and  he  devoted  himself  main- 
ly to  the  translation  into  Hebrew  of  some  of  the  most 
valuable  works  of  able  Jews  written  in  Arabic.  He 
died  about  1190.  His  translations  are  The  Duties  of 
the  Heart  of  Joseph  b.-Bechai,  the  Ethics  of  Ibn-Ge- 
birol,  the  Kusari  of  Judah  Ha-Levi,  the  Moral  Phi- 
losophy of  Saadia  Gaon,  and  the  grammatical  and  lexi- 
cographical work  of  Ibn-Ganach  (q.  v.).  All  his  trans- 
lations bear  his  own  pedantic  character;  they  arc  literal, 
and  therefore  clumsy,  and  we  can  hardly  see  why  he 
should  have  gained  the  surname  of  prince  of  translators , 
unless  it  was  for  the  service  which  he  rendered  by  pre- 
senting the  Jews  translations  of  works  not  otherwise  ac- 
cessible to  them.  He  is  also  said  to  have  written  a work 
on  the  purity  of  the  Hebrew  language  (TTiU  VO 
“j!  -An),  which  is  lost.  See  Kitto,  Cyclop.  Bibl.  Lit.  ii, 
358 ; Steinschneider,  Catalogus  IJbr.  Ilebr.  in  Bibliotheca 
Bodleiana  (col.  1374-76) ; Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  vi,  241 ; 
Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  iii,  401  sq. 

Ibn-Tibbon,  Samuel,  son  of  the  preceding,  was 
born  about  1160.  lie  was  educated  by  his  father  both 
in  the  Hebrew  and  cognate  languages,  and  followed  him 
in  the  practice  of  medicine.  He  was  wild  and  even 
reckless  in  his  youth,  but  finally  became  interested  in 
his  studies,  and  evinced  greater  skill  as  a translator  than 
his  father.  He  died  about  1230.  Besides  translating 
philosophical  works  both  of  Jewish  and  heathen  authors, 
among  whom  were  Aristotle  and  Alfarabi,  he  wrote  a 
commentary  on  Ecclesiastes  (r?Plp  TUIVS),  which  ex- 
ists in  MS.  in  several  of  the  European  libraries;  and  a 
commentary  on  Gen.  i,  1-9,  entitled  CVIH  V'Xta 
(Presburg,  1837),  being  a dissertation  on  the  creation. — 
Griitz  Gesch.  d.  Juden.  vi,  242 ; Kitto,  Cyclop.  Bib.  Lit. 
ii,  358 ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  iii,  402  sq. 

Ibn-Tumart,  Abdallah,  a religious  enthusiast, 
flourished  in  the  second  half  of  the  12th  century  in 
Northern  Africa.  He  appeared  before  the  simple-mind- 
ed hordes  of  Barbarv,  and  preached  against  the  Sunnit- 
ieal  doctrine  of  the  Mohammedan  orthodoxy  [see  .Sun- 
nites], and  the  literal  interpretation  of  the  verses  of 
the  Koran,  and  the  Mohammedan  belief  that  God  feels 
and  acts  like  man.  Ilis  followers,  on  account  of  their 
belief  in  the  strict  unity  of  God  without  corporeal  rep- 
resentation (Tau chid),  called  themselves  Almowachids , 
or  Almohads.  Ibn-Tumart  they  recognised  as  Mahdi, 
or  the  God-sent  Imam  of  Islam.  Like  Mohammed,  he 
went  forth  to  conquer  by  the  sword  the  territories  of 
the  Almoravids,  and  his  doctrine  soon  found  followers 
throughout  North-west  Africa.  See  Mohammedans. 
(J.  II.  W.) 

Ib'ri  (Heb.  Ibri\  “H22,  an  Eberite  or  “Hebrew;” 
Sept,  has  ’Qj3$i  v.  r.  ’A  fiat),  the  last  named  of  “ the 
sons  of  Merari  by  Jaaziah,”  i.  c.,  apparently  a descend- 
ant of  Levi  in  the  time  of  David  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  27). 
B.C.  1014. 

Ibum  is  a name  for  the  Jewish  ceremony  of  the 
marriage  of  a childless  widow  by  the  brother  of  the  de- 
ceased husband.  See  Levirate  Law. 

Ib'zan  (Heb.  Jbtsan',  from  to  shine, 

hence  illustrious ; but  accord,  to  Gesen.  peril,  of  tin , or 
grievous,  from  the  Chakl. ; Sept.  ’Efltodv  v.  r.  ’Afima- 
<t«i' ; Joseph.  ’Axpa’vgc,  Ant.v,  7,  13),  the  tenth  “judge 
of  Israel”  (Jndg.  xii,  8-10).  He  was  of  Bethlehem, 


ICARD 


461 


ICELAND 


probably  the  Bethlehem  of  Zebulun  (so  Michaelis  and 
Hezel),  and  not  of  Judah  (as  Josephus  says).  He  gov- 
erned seven  years,  B.C.  1249-1243.  The  prosperity  of 
Ibzan  is  marked  by  the  great  number  of  his  children 
(thirty  sons  and  thirty  daughters),  and  his  wealth  by 
their  marriages— for  they  were  all  married.  Some  have 
held,  with  little  probability,  that  Ibzan  was  the  same 
with  Boaz. — Kitto. 

Icard,  Charles,  a French  Protestant  divine,  was 
born  at  St.  Hippolyte,  Languedoc,  in  February-,  1636. 
He  attended  school  at  Anduze,  Orange,  and  Nimes,  and 
concluded  his  theological  studies  at  Geneva  from  1655- 
58,  and  in  1659  went  to  Paris.  After  ordination  by  the 
provincial  synod  of  Ay  he  was  appointed  pastor  of  La 
Norville,  where  he  remained  until  1668,  when  he  ac- 
cepted a pastorship  at  Nimes.  Under  the  influence  of 
the  persecutions  which  heralded  the  approaching  revo- 
cation of  the  edict  of  Nantes,  the  Protestants,  at  the 
suggestion  of  Claude  Brousson,  formed  a central  com- 
mittee for  the  protection  of  their  general  interests,  and 
Icard  was  chosen  to  represent  it  at  the  Synod  of  Lower 
Languedoe,  assembled  at  Uzes  in  1632.  In  the  mean 
time,  the  population  of  a part  of  Vivarais  and  Lower 
Langnedoe  having  risen  in  arms  to  resist  the  persecu- 
tion, the  insurrection  was  extinguished  in  blood,  and 
the  members  of  the  central  committee,  accused  of  being 
the  instigators,  were  proceeded  against  with  the  utmost 
severity-.  Icard  succeeded  in  reaching  Geneva,  and 
thence  went  to  Neufehatel  for  greater  security-.  While 
on  his  way-,  at  Yverdun,  he  learned  that  he  hail  been 
condemned,  June  26,  1682,  as  contumacious,  to  die  on 
the  rack.  He  remained  as  pastor  at  Neufehatel  until 
1688,  when  he  went  to  Bremen,  and  supplied  a French 
congregation  there.  He  died  June  9, 17 15.  Ieard  wrote 
two  Sermons , Am  salutaire  aux  Eglises  re/ormees  de 
France  (Amst.  1685,  l2mo),  exhorting  the  Protestants 
not  to  give  way  under  persecution.  He  also  edited  an 
edition  of  the  Institutions  de  Calvin  (first  two  books, 
Bremen,  1696, 1697,  4to ; the  whole,  Bremen,  1713,  fol.) ; 
and  an  edition  of  the  Entretiens  dun  P'ere  et  de  son  Fils 
sur  le  Changement  de  Religion , par  Josue  de  La  Place. 
See  Hossat,  Detail  abrege  de  la  Vie  de  Charles  Icard  (in 
Hist.  crit.  de  la  Republique  des  Lettres  (1717),  xiv,  283- 
SOL  ; Ilaag,  La  France  Protestante ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog. 
Generate,  xxv,  768. 

Ice  (rHJ?,  ke'rach , so  called  from  its  smoothiess,  Job 
vi,  16;  xxviii,  29;  elsewhere  cold,  “frost,”  Gen.  xxxi, 
40;  Jer.  xxxvi,  30 ; i.  e.  ice,  Job  xxxvii,  10;  but  “crys- 
tal” in  Ezek.  i,  32;  or  H^p,  ko'rach,  id.,  poet,  for  hail, 
Psa.  cxlvii,  17).  See  the  above  terms,  and  climate  un- 
der Palestine. 

Iceland,  an  island  belonging  to  Denmark,  situated 
between  the  North  Atlantic  and  the  Arctic  Oceans,  dis- 
tant 130  miles  from  the  south-east  coast  of  Greenland, 
and  about  850  miles  west  of  Norway-,  extending  between 
lat.  63°  24'  and  663  33'  N..  and  long.  13°  31'  and  24°. 
The  area  is  about  38,400  square  miles,  of  which  only 
15,300  are  cultivated.  The  total  popidation  of  Iceland 
was,  according  to  the  census  of  1860,  66,987  souls. 

As  early  as  795  the  eastern  coast  of  Iceland  was  in- 
habited by  some  Irish  monks,  but  it  did  not  receive  a 
settled  population  until  860,  when  king  Harald  Har- 
fagr,  of  Norway-,  after  conquering  the  other  kings,  made 
himself  sole  sovereign  of  the  country-,  and  induced  large 
numbers  of  the  malcontents  to  emigrate  to  Iceland. 
Nearly-  all  the  new-comers  were  pagans,  and  thus  the 
republic  which  was  established  by  them  was  thorough- 
ly- pagan.  The  legislation  of  Ulfliot  (about  927)  cre- 
ated the  Althing,  an  assembly  of  the  wisest  men  of  all  I 
districts,  which  met  annually  to  discuss  the  affairs  of 
the  country,  and  to  give  the  necessary  laws.  The  first 
Christian  missionary  among  the  Icelanders  was  Thor- 
valdr  Kodransson  (981-985),  with  the  same  Vidfdrli 
(“who  has  made  wide  journeys”),  who  was  supported 
by  Frederick,  according  to  the  legend,  a Saxon  bishop. 
With  great  vigor  the  missionary  work  was  subsequently 


continued  by  king  Olaf  Tryggvason  of  Norway-,  who  not 
only  tried  by  persuasion,  bribery-,  and  intimidation  ta 
gain  for  the  Christian  religion  all  the  Icelanders  whs 
came  to  Norway-,  but  also  sent  missionaries  to  Ice- 
land, and  supported  their  labors  by  the  whole  influence 
which  he  could  command.  The  first  to  go  Avas  the  Ice- 
lander Stefnir  Thorgilsson  (996-997),  folloAved  by  the 
Saxon  priest  Dankbrand,  who,  after  many  adventures, 
had  become  court  chaplain  of  the  king  (997-999) ; two 
noble  Icelanders,  the  “ White  Gizur,”  and  Hjalti  Skegja- 
son,  succeeded  finally  in  effecting  a compromise  Avith 
the  pagan  chief  functionary  of  the  island,  Thorgair  of 
LjosaA-atu,  according  to  Avhieh  Christianity-  Avas  made 
the  state  religion  of  Iceland,  Avliile  many-  reservations 
were  made  in  favor  of  paganism  (1000).  The  Avhole  peo- 
ple AA-ere  then  baptized,  part  of  them  reluctantly-,  yet  Avith- 
out  open  resistance.  A feAV  years  later,  king  Olaf  Ilar- 
aldsson  caused  the  last  remnants  of  paganism  to  be  ef- 
faced from  the  laAvs.  Some  traces,  however,  of  the  for- 
mer religion  remained  in  the  faith  and  usages  of  the 
Christian  Icelanders,  particularly-  in  their  Church  con- 
stitution. During  the  pagan  period  the  erection  and 
possession  of  a temple  had  been  a private  affair;  as 
there  Avas  no  separate  order  of  priests,  dri-ine  Avorship 
had  been  held  in  eA-ery  temple  by  its  oAvner;  subse- 
quently-, Avhen  the  political  constitution  of  the  island 
Avas  regulated  (965),  a limited  number  (thirty-nine)  of 
temples  obtained  a political  importance,  and  every  Ice- 
lander Avas  obliged  to  connect  himself  Avith  the  OAv-ner 
of  the  principal  temple  as  his  subjeet,  and  to  pay  a con- 
tribution for  the  maintenance  of  the  temple.  PriA-ate 
temples  Avere  maintained  beside  the  public,  and  the  lat- 
ter remained  likeAvise  the  private  property-  of  the  chiefs. 
The  idea  of  chief  temples  ceased  Avith  the  introduc- 
tion of  Christianity-;  but  erection,  dotation,  and  mainte- 
nance of  the  temples  remained  a private  affair.  The 
laAV  only  provided  that  the  erection  of  a church  in- 
voked the  duty  of  maintaining  it ; and  the  clergy  could 
compel  the  dotation  of  a church  by  delay-ing  its  conse- 
cration until  dotation  Avas  provided  for.  Otherwise  the 
administration  of  the  property  of  the  ehurch  by-  its 
owner  Avas  A-ery  arbitrary-,  and  he  had  only  to  take  care 
of  the  maintenance  of  the  church  and  of  the  holding  of 
divine  AA-orship.  He  either  could  take  orders  himself  or 
hire  another  priest.  In  the  former  case  the  priest  Avas 
more  of  a peasant,  merchant,  or  a judge  than  a clergy-- 
man ; in  the  latter  he  was  financially  dependent  upon 
the  OAvner  of  the  temple,  and,  like  other  servants,  obliged 
to  perform  domestic  or  military-  sen-ices.  Iceland  re- 
ceiA'ed  its  oaa-ii  and  native  bishop  in  1055,  having  up  to 
that  time  been  only  A-isited  by-  missionary  bishops.  The 
bishop  enjoyed  the  benefit  of  the  old  temple  duties; 
othenvise  he  had  to  live  out  of  his  OAvn  means.  Under 
the  second  bishop,  Gizur,  the  see  Avas  endowed,  and  per- 
manently established  at  Skalaliolil ; subsequently  (about 
1106)  a second  see  Avas  established  at  llolar,  to  which 
Avas  given  the  jurisdiction  of  the  northern  district,  AA-hile 
the  three  other  districts  remained  subjeet  to  the  bishop 
of  Skalahold.  The  bishops  Avere  elected  by-  the  people ; 
the  priests  by  the  owners  of  the  seA-eral  churches.  Thus 
the  clergy  Avere  less  independent  than  in  other  countries, 
and  consequently  less  powerful.  Their  influence  some- 
Avhat  increased  Avhen  bishop  Gizur,  in  1097,  preA-ailed 
upon  the  National  Assembly  to  introduce  the  tithe,  and 
when  the  bishops  Thorlakr  Runolfson  and  Retill  Thor- 
steinson,  by-  compiling  the  Church  laws,  gained  a Ann 
basis  (1123  : it  AA-as  published  in  1776  by  Grim  Joh.  Thor- 
kelin,  under  the  title  Jus  ecclesiasticum  vetus,  sive  Thor - 
laco-Ketillianum,  or  Kristinrettr  hinn  gamli).  Still  the 
condition  of  the  Icelandic  Church  continued  to  remain 
in  many  particulars  different  from  that  of  other  church- 
es. Lay  patronage  was  recognised  to  its  fullest  extent; 
no  celibacy  separated  the  clergy-  from  the  people ; even 
the  bishops  were  generally  married.  The  bishops,  though 
they-  had  a seat  in  the  National  Assembly,  had  no  sepa- 
rate ecclesiastical  jurisdiction  ; and  marriage  and  other 
affairs  Avere  regulated  contrary  to  Church  law. 


ICELAND 


462 


ICONIUM 


The  Church  of  Iceland  was  at  first  subordinate  to  the 
archbishopric  of  Bremen  and  Hamburg;  when  the  arch- 
bishopric of  Lund  was  established  (1103),  Iceland  was 
transferred  to  it : finally,  it  was  transferred  to  the  new 
archbishopric  of  Nidaros.  About  the  middle  of  the  13th 
century  the  island  became  subject  to  the  crown  of  Nor- 
way, and  was  consequently  affected  by  the  war  between 
Church  and  State  which  took  place  in  that  country. 
This  chiefly  concerned  the  patronage  of  laymen,  and 
ended  with  the  adoption  of  a new  Church  law  intro- 
duced about  1297  by  bishop  Arni.  (This  Church  law 
was  published  in  1777  by  Grim  Joh.  Thorkelin,  under 
the  title  Jus  ecclesiasticum  novum,  sive  Amceanum,  or 
Kristinnrettr  inn  nyi.) 

The  inner  condition  of  the  people  was  anything  but 
satisfactory,  as  immorality  and  other  vices  appear  to 
have  prevailed  to  a large  extent  among  the  laity  as 
well  as  among  the  clergy.  The  convents  which  had 
arisen  since  the  12tli  century  fully  participated  in  the 
general  degeneration.  Externally  all  classes  of  the  peo- 
ple showed  a strong  attachment  to  the  Church  of  Rome, 
and  three  natives  of  the  island  obtained  a place  among 
the  saints  of  the  Church  — Tliorlakr,  Jon,  and  Gud- 
mundr;  the  last  named,  however,  was  not  formally  can- 
onized. 

The  Reformation  soon  found  a number  of  adherents; 
among  the  earliest,  and  most  devoted  was  Oddr  Gotts- 
chalksson,  the  author  of  the  first  translation  of  the  New 
Testament  into  Icelandic  (printed  at  Roeskilde,  1540). 
The  Danish  government,  of  which  Iceland  formed  a de- 


ops, contrary  to  the  provisions  of  the  Danish  Church 
constitution,  but  since  1563  they  have  been  elected,  in 
accordance  therewith,  by  the  congregation,  under  the 
superintendence  of  the  provost.  To  the  royal  bailift 
was  reserved  the  right  of  investing  the  pastor  elect  with 
his  office.  .Subsequently  the  manner  of  appointment 
was  somewhat  modified,  the  appointing  power  being 
given  to  the  bailiff,  and  a right  of  co-operation  to  the 
bishop.  To  the  king  of  Denmark  was  reserved  the 
right  of  sanctioning  the  appointment  to  one  of  the  forty- 
seven  benefices,  whose  yearly  income  is  from  40  to  100 
dollars  annually.  Only  five  of  the  299  churches  yield 
an  income  higher  than  100  dollars.  Some  clergymen 
have  an  income  of  no  more  than  five  dollars  annually. 
All  have  therefore  to  depend  for  their  support  chiefly  on 
fees  and  on  the  proceeds  of  the  lands  connected  with  the 
churches.  See  Maurer,  in  Herzog,  Reed-Encyklopddie, 
vii,  90 ; Finnus  Johann  pens,  Histor.  Eccles.  Islandiee  (tom. 
iv,  Ilavniie,  1772-78;  extending  to  the  year  1740,  and 
continued  till  1840  under  the  same  title  by  Petur  Petur- 
son,  Copenhagen,  1841) ; M (inter,  Kirchengesch.  von  Den- 
mark u.  Xorwegen,  vol.  i-iii  (Leipzig,  1823-33);  Maurer, 
Die  Bekehrung  des  no  nr  eg.  Stummes  zum  Christenthume 
(Munich,  1855-56,  2 vols.);  Harbon,  Om  reformaiionen  i 
Island  (Copenh.  1843).  (A.  J.  S.) 

Ich'abod  (Heb.  I-kalod'  ‘Vin^X,  Where  is  the 
glory  ? i.  q.  There  is  no  glory , i.  e.  inglorious ; Sept.  ’Iw- 
v.  r.  ’ExafidtS,  and  even  Qvaixafid)d>  etc.),  the 
son  of  Phinclias  and  grandson  of  Eli.  The  pains  of  la- 
bor came  i.pon  his  mother  when  she  heard  that  the 


pendency  since  the  tmion  of  Norway  with  Denmark  ark  of  God  ',vas  taken,  that  her  husband  was  slain  in 


(1397),  endeavored  to  introduce  the  Reformation,  which 
in  1536  had  been  declared  to  be  the  religion  of  the  state 
hv  the  Diet  of  Copenhagen,  by  force ; but  the  bishops, 
especially  bishop  Arason  of  Ilolar,  made  a determined, 
and  at  length  an  armed  opposition,  which,  however, 
finally  (1550)  ended  in  his  capture  and  execution.  This 
put  an  end  to  the  Church  of  Rome  in  Iceland,  and  in 
the  next  year  (1551)  the  Reformation  was  fully  carried 
through. 

The  real  improvement  in  the  condition  of  the  Church 
was,  however,  only  gradual.  Many  of  the  customs  of 
the  mediaeval  Church,  such  as  the  use  of  the  Latin  lan- 
guage at  divine  service,  maintained  themselves  for  a 
long  time;  and  the  same  was  the  case  with  the  igno- 
rance and  the  immorality  of  the  clergy  and  the  people. 
But  gradually  these  defects  were  remedied  by  the  es- 
tablishment of  learned  schools  in  connection  with  the 
two  cathedrals  (1552) , by  the  establishment  of  a print- 
ing-press at  Ilolar  by  the  excellent  bishop  Gudbrandr 
Tliorlakson  (1574);  and  in  particular  by  the  new  trans- 
lation of  the  Bible  by  this  bishop,  a service  that  contrib- 
uted largely  to  a thorough  reform  of  the  Church,  which 
now  belongs  to  the  best-educated  portions  of  the  Prot- 
estant world. 

As  regards  the  present  constitution  of  the  Church  of 
Iceland,  it  resembles  in  its  principal  features  that  of 
Denmark,  yet  not  without  preserving  some  of  its  own 
peculiarities.  The  sovereign  is  the  chief  bishop  (summits 
e-pis  vagus'),  who  exercises  his  authority  partly  through 


the  bishops,  partly  through  secular  officers.  The  bish-  I ) . . , . 

ops,  in  the  election  of  whom  the  people  take  part,  occn-  j ishes  the  whole  world.  Augustine  says  that  “ is 
py  the  position  of  superintendents,  and  still  have  an  ^ie  mystical  name  of  Christ,  because  he  descended  alive 
extended  jurisdiction.  At  the  close  of  the  18th  century  'llt0  the  depths  of  this  mortal  life  into  the  abyss  of 
the  see  of  Skalaliold  was  transferred  to  Reykjavik,  and  waters”  {pe  Civit.  Dei).  See  Didron,  Christian  leemo- 
somewhat  later  (1825)  a cathedral  was  established  at  fJraPhli  b 344  sq. ; M iinter,  Sinnhilder  d.  alt  Christen 
Langames,  near  Reykjavik.  The  episcopal  sec  of  IIo-  (^L  1825);  Augusti,  A reheiol.  i,  121  sq. ; Pearson,  On 
lar  had  previously ‘(in  1801)  been  abolished,  and  the  the  Creed;  Riddle,  Christ.  Antiquit.  p.  184.  See  Icoxo- 
whole  island  placed  under  one  bishop.  Next  to  the  CRA1*hy. 

bishops  are  the  provosts,  whose  office  was  in  the  Mid-  Ico'nium  (’If coviov,  of  unknown  derivation),  a 
die  Ages  chiefly  of  a financial  nature,  and  therefore  town,  formerly  the  capital  of  Lycaonia  (according  to 
sometimes  occupied  by  laymen.  Since  the  Reformation  Ptol.  v,  6, 16 ; but  Phrygia  according  to  Strabo,  xii,  568 ; 
(1573-1574)  the  dignity  has  been  wholly  of  an  eeelesi-  Xenoph.  A nab.  i,  2,  19;  Pliny,  v,  25;  and  even  Pisidia 
astieal  character,  and  includes  the  right  and  duty  of  su-  according  to  Ammian.  Marcel,  xiv,  2),  as  it  is  now,  by 
perintending  large  districts.  On  the  whole,  there  are  19  the  name  of  Koniyeh,  of  Karamania,  in  Asia  Minor.  It 
provosts,  each  of  whom  is  placed  over  a number  of  par-  is  situated  in  N.  lat.  37°  51',  E.  long.  32°  40',  about  120 
ishes.  The  pastors  were  at  first  appointed  by  the  bish-  miles  inland  from  the  Mediterranean.  It  was  on  the 


battle,  and  that  these  tidings  had  proved  fatal  to  his 
father  Eli.  They  were  death-pains  to  her;  and  when 
those  around  sought  to  cheer  her,  saying,  “Fear  not, 
for  thou  hast  borne  a son,”  she  only  answered  by  giv- 
ing him  the  name  of  I-chabod,  adding,  “The  glory  is 
departed  from  Israel”  (1  8am.  iv,  19-22).  B.C.  1125. 
The  name  again  occurs  in  1 Sam.  xiv,  3,  where  his  son 
Ahitub  is  mentioned  as  the  father  of  the  priest  Ahiah. 
— Kit  to. 

Ichthys  (Greek,  fySee,  a fsh),  in  Christian  archae- 
ology a symbol  of  Christ.  The  word  is  found  on  many 
seals,  rings,  lamps,  and  tombstones  belonging  to  the 
earliest  Christian  times.  It  is  formed  of  the  initial  let- 
ters of  our  Saviour’s  names  and  titles  in  Greek:  ’lyerovg 
Xpiorog',  Otov  'Yioq,  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of 

God,  the  Saviour.  Tertullian  speaks  of  Christians  ac- 
customed to  please  themselves  with  the  name  jrisriculi, 
“fishes,”  to  denote  that  they  were  bom  again  into 
Christ’s  religion  by  water.  He  says,  “Nos  pisc’culi  se- 
cundum i\Bvv,  nostrum  Jesum  Christum,  in  aqua  nas- 
cimur”  (De  Bapt.  i,  2).  See  Fish.  Baptismal  fonts 
were  often  ornamented  with  the  figure  of  a fish ; several 
such  remain  in  French  cathedrals.  Optatus,  bishop  of 
Milesia,  in  the  4th  century,  first  pointed  out  the  word 
ixBvg  as  formed  of  the  initials  of  Christ’s  titles  as  above 
given,  and  from  that  time  forward  “Oriental  subtlety 
repeated  to  satiety”  religious  similitudes  drawn  from 
the  sea.  Julius  Africanus  calls  Christ  “the  great  fish 
taken  by  the  fish-hook  of  God,  and  whose  flesh  nour- 


ICONIUM 


463 


ICONOCLASM 


great  line  of  communication  between  Ephesus  and  the  | 
western  coast  of  the  peninsula  on  one  side,  and  Tarsus, 
Antioch,  and  the  Euphrates  on  the  other.  We  see  this 
indicated  by  the  narrative  of  Xenophon  (I.  c.)  ami  the 
letters  of  Cicero  (<t(l  Fain,  iii,  8 ; v,  20;  xv,  4).  When 
the  Roman  provincial  system  was  matured,  some  of  the 
most  important  roads  intersected  one  another  at  this 
point,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  map  in  Leake’s  Asia 
Minor . These  circumstances  should  be  borne  in  mind 
when  we  trace  Paul’s  journeys  through  the  district. 
Iconium  was  a well-chosen  place  for  missionary  opera- 
tions. The  apostle’s  first  visit  was  on  his  first  circuit, 
in  company  with  Barnabas;  and  on  this  occasion  he 
approached  it  from  Antioch  in  Pisidia,  which  lay  to  the 
west.  A.D.  44.  From  that  city  lie  had  been  driven  by 
the  persecution  of  the  Jews  (Acts  xiii,  50,  51).  There 
were  Jews  in  Iconium  also ; and  Paul's  first  efforts  here, 
according  to  his  custom,  were  made  in  the  synagogue 
(xiv,  1).  The  results  were  considerable  both  among 
the  Hebrew  and  Gentile  population  of  the  place  (ibid.). 
We  should  notice  that  the  working  of  miracles  in  Ico- 
nium is  emphatically  mentioned  (xiv,  3).  The  intrigues 
of  the  Jews  again  drove  him  away ; he  was  in  danger 
of  being  stoned,  and  he  withdrew  to  Lystra  and  Derbe, 
in  the  eastern  and  wilder  part  of  Lycaonia  (xiv,  G). 
Thither  also  the  enmity  of  the  Jews  of  Antioch  and 
Iconium  pursued  him ; and  at  Lystra  he  was  actually 
stoned  and  left  for  dead  (xiv,  19).  After  an  interval, 
however,  he  returned  over  the  old  ground,  revisiting 
Iconium,  and  encouraging  the  Church  which  he  had 
founded  there  (xiv,  21,  22).  A.IX47.  These  sufferings 
and  difficulties  arc  alluded  to  in  2 Tim.  iii,  1 1 ; and  this 
brings  us  to  the  consideration  of  his  next  visit  to  this 
neighborhood,  which  was  the  occasion  of  his  first  prac- 
tically associating  himself  with  Timothy.  Paul  left  the 
Syrian  Antioch,  in  company  with  Silas  (Acts  xv,  40), 
on  his  second  missionary  circuit ; and,  travelling  through 
Cilicia  (xv,  41),  and  up  through  the  passes  of  Taurus 
into  Lycaonia,  approached  Iconium  from  the  east,  by 
Derbe  and  Lystra  (xvi,  1,  2).  Though  apparently  a 
native  of  Lystra,  Timothy  was  evidently  well  known  to 
the  Christians  of  Iconium  (xvi,  2) ; and  it  is  not  im- 
probable that  his  circumcision  (xvi,  3)  and  ordination 
(1  Tim.  i,  18;  iv,  14;  vi,  12;  2 Tim.  i,  G)  took  place 
there.  On  leaving  Iconium,  Paul  and  his  party  trav- 
elled to  the  north-west ; and  the  place  is  not  mentioned 
again  in  the  sacred  narrative,  though  there  is  little 
doubt  that  it  was  visited  by  the  apostle  again  in  the 
early  part  of  his  third  circuit  (Acts  xviii,  23).  From 
its  position  it  could  not  fail  to  be  an  important  centre 
of  Christian  influence  in  the  early  ages  of  the  Church. 
The  curious  apocryphal  legend  of  St.  Tliecla,  of  which 
Iconium  is  the  scene,  must  not  be  entirely  passed  by. 
The  “Acta  Pauli  et  Theclse”  are  given  in  full  by  Grabe 
(Spied,  vol.  i),  and  by  Jones  (On  the  Canon , ii,  353-411) ; 
and  in  brief  by  Conybeare  and  Ilowson  (St.  Paul,  i,  197). 
The  Church  planted  at  this  place  by  the  apostle  con- 
tinued to  flourish  (Hierocles,  p.  G75)  until,  by  the  per- 
secutions of  the  Saracens,  and  afterwards  of  the  Selju- 
kians,  who  made  it  one  of  their  sultanies,  it  was  nearty 
extinguished.  But  some  Christians  of  the  Greek  and 
Armenian  churches,  with  a Greek  metropolitan  bishop, 
are  still  found  in  the  suburbs  of  the  city,  not  being  per- 
mitted to  reside  within  the  walls. 

Ivoniyeh  is  situated  at  the  foot  of  Mount  Taurus 
(Mannert,  vi,  1,  p.  195  sq.),  upon  the  border  of  the  lake 
Trogitis,  in  a fertile  plain,  rich  in  valuable  productions, 
particularly  apricots,  wine,  cotton,  flax,  and  grain.  The 


circumference  of  the  town  is  between  two  and  three 
miles,  and  beyond  these  are  suburbs  not  much  less  pop- 
ulous than  the  town  itself,  which  has  in  all  about  30,000 
inhabitants,  but  according  to  others  80,000.  The  walls, 
strong  and  lofty,  and  flanked  with  square  towers,  which, 
at  the  gates,  are  placed  close  together,  were  built  by  the 
Seljukian  sultans  of  Iconium,  who  seem  to  have  taken 
considerable  pains  to  exhibit  the  Greek  inscriptions,  and 
the  remains  of  architecture  and  sculpture  belonging  to 
the  ancient  Iconium,  which  they  made  use  of  in  build- 
ing the  walls.  The  town,  suburbs,  and  gardens  are 
plentifully  supplied  with  water  from  streams  which  flow 
from  some  hills  to  the  westward,  and  which,  to  the 
north-east,  join  the  lake,  which  varies  in  size  with  the 
season  of  the  year.  In  the  town  carpets  are  manufac- 
tured, and  blue  and  yellow  leathers  are  tanned  and 
dried.  Cotton,  wool,  hides,  and  a few  of  the  other  raw 
productions  which  enrich  the  superior  industry  and  skill 
of  the  manufacturers  of  Europe,  are  sent  to  Smyrna  by 
caravans.  The  most  remarkable  building  in  Koniyeh 
is  the  tomb  of  a priest  highly  revered  throughout  Tur- 
key, called  Ilazrit  Mevlana,  the  founder  of  the  Mevlevi 
Dervishes.  The  city,  like  all  those  renowned  for  supe- 
rior sanctity,  abounds  with  dervishes,  who  meet  the 
passenger  at  every  turning  of  the  streets,  and  demand 
paras  with  the  greatest  clamor  and  insolence.  The  ba- 
zaars and  houses  have  little  to  recommend  them  to  no- 
tice. (Kinneir’s  Travels  in  Asia  Minor;  Leake’s  Geog- 
raphy  of  Asia  Minor;  Arundeil’s  Tour  in  Asia  Minor; 
Niebuhr,  Trav.  i,  113,  149;  Hassel,  Erdbeschr.  Asiens,  ii, 
197;  Rosenmi'iller,  Bib.  Gear/,  i,  1,  p.  201,  207;  Hamil- 
ton’s Researches  in  Asia  Minor,  ii,  205  sq. ; etc.  For 
the  early  and  Grecian  history  of  this  place,  and  the  fan- 
ciful etymologies  of  the  name,  see  Anthon’s  Class.  Diet. 
s.  v.) — Kitto ; Winer ; Smith. 

Iconoclasm,  or  Image-breaking  (iIkwv,  image; 
ic\aZuv,  to  break),  is  a name  for  the  struggle  in  the 
Christian  Church  in  the  Middle  Ages,  which,  as  its 
name  indicates,  had  for  its  object  the  destruction  of  all 
images  used  for  worship  in  the  churches.  From  the 
age  of  Constantine  the  reverence  for  pictures  and  im- 
ages constantly  increased,  as  they  were  supposed  to  pos- 
sess a certain  sanctity  or  miraculous  power;  and  at  so 
early  an  age  as  that  of  Augustine  we  hear  him  confess 
that  many  had  fallen  into  the  superstition  of  adoring 
pictures  rather  than  the  Deity.  But  the  Iconoclastic 
controversy  assumed  a more  serious  aspect  in  the  8tli 
century,  when  the  emperor  Leo  III,  the  Isaurian  (717— 
741),  who,  previous  to  his  accession  to  the  throne,  had 
associated  much  with  Jews  and  Mohammedans,  on  tak- 
ing the  side  of  the  Iconoclasts  in  the  tenth  year  of  his 
reign,  issued  an  edict  against  the  use  of  images  in 
churches.  He  was  influenced,  no  doubt,  by  a desire  to 
draw  into  the  Christian  Church  the  Mohammedans  and 
Jews,  who,  aside  from  their  simple  theistic  faith,  were 
debarred  from  joining  the  Christians  by  an  aversion  to 
the  use  of  images.  But  the  people — who  felt  that  “it 
swept  away  from  their  churches  objects  hallowed  by 
devotion,  and  supposed  to  be  endowed  with  miraculous 
agency;  objects  of  hope  and  fear,  of  gratitude  and  im- 
memorial veneration” — rose  up  in  masses  against  the 
edict,  and  violent  disturbances,  especially  at  Constan- 
tinople, where  the  patriarch  himself  sided  with  them, 
were  of  daily  occurrence.  The  superior  power  of  the 
government,  however,  soon  made  itself  felt,  the  pictures 
were  destroyed,  the  insurrectionists  slain  or  banished, 
and  order  restored,  after  a fearful  massacre.  Yet,  not- 
withstanding all  the  penalties  which,  by  order  of  Leo, 
were  inflicted  on  the  opponents  of  Iconoclasm,  cham- 
pions in  favor  of  the  use  of  images  in  churches  rose  up. 
Among  them  was  the  great  John  of  Damascus  (q.  v.), 
who,  after  adducing  the  ordinary  arguments  for  images 
with  greater  elegance  and  ingenuity  than  any  other 
writer  of  his  day,  went  forth  in  bitter  invectives  against 
the  Iconoclasts  as  enemies  of  Christ,  the  Virgin,  and  the 
saints.  “ Pictures  are  standing  memorials  of  triumph 
over  the  devil ; whosoever  destroys  them  is  a friend  of 


IDALAH 


464 


ICOXOCLASM 

the  detail,  3 Manichfean,  and  a Docetist.”  The  pope 
himself,  Gregory  III,  put  all  the  opposers  of  images  un- 
der ban ; but,  despite  this  and  other  efforts  on  his  part, 
Leo’s  successor,  Constantinus  Copronymus,  went  even 
further  than  Leo.  Having  obtained  the  condemnation 
of  image-worship  in  the  Synod  of  Constantinople  in  A. 
D.  754,  he  enforced  it  against  the  clergy  and  the  most 
noted  of  the  monks.  Many  monks,  who,  together  with 
the  patriarchs  of  Alexandria,  Antioch,  and  Jerusalem, 
were  in  favor  of  the  images,  and  were  unwilling  to  sub- 
scribe to  the  decrees  of  the  council,  were  cruelly  perse- 
cuted. The  emperor  Leo  IV  also  enforced  this  law ; but 
his  widow,  Irene,  one  of  the  basest  of  women,  used  the 
tendency  of  the  people  in  favor  of  image-worship  to  en- 
able her  to  ascend  the  throne.  With  the  aid  of  the 
newly-elected  patriarch  of  Constantinople,  Terasios,  she 
called  a synod  at  Niciea  in  787,  wherein  the  adoration 
of  images  by  prostration,  kissing,  and  incensing  was  re- 
established. Matters  remained  in  this  state  during  the 
reigns  of  the  emperors  Nicephorus  and  Michael  (802- 
813),  although  there  still  were  Iconoclasts  to  be  found. 
But  as,  during  the  strife,  the  adoration  of  images  had 
passed  into  the  grossest  idolatry,  Leo  V (818-821) 
caused  it  to  be  abolished  by  the  Synod  of  Constantino- 
ple, and  punished  those  who  persisted  in  it  (mostly 
monks,-  with  Theodoros  Studita  at  their  head).  Mi- 
chael II  (821-824),  who  overthrew  Leo,  tolerated  the 
worship  of  images  without  thereby  satisfying  the  image- 
worshippers  ; but  Theopliilus,  his  son  (829-842),  on  his 
sole  accession  to  the  government,  renewed  all  the  edicts 
against  them.  After  his  death,  his  widow  restored  im- 
Age-worship  in  842,  and  instituted  the  festival  of  the 
Orthodoxy,  which  is  yet  kept  by  the  Greek  Church 
remembrance  of  this  restoration  (see  Buddaeus,  De 
festo  orthodoxo,  Jena,  172C).  The  Greek  Christians 
have  since  retained  images  in  their  churches,  but  with- 
out worshipping  them.  The  Latins  also  decided  that 
the  images  should  be  retained,  but  not  worshipped ; while 
the  French  Church  declared  most  positively  against 
image-worship  in  the  Synod  of  Gentiliacum  in  7C7,  and 
in  790  Charlemagne  presented  to  the  Council  of  Nicies 
a memorial,  Da  impio  imaginuni  cultu  ( Libri  Carolini). 
Thereupon  images  were  allowed  to  be  retained  for  pur- 
poses of  education  only.  At  the  Synod  of  Frankfort  in 
794,  Charlemagne,  with  the  assent  of  the  English  Church, 
caused  image-worship  to  be  condemned.  After  the  9th 
century  the  popes  were  gradually  more  inclined  towards 
image-worship,  and  it  soon  became  general  throughout 
the  West.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church  continued  to 
favor  the  practice,  and  the  Council  of  Trent  decided 
formally  in  its  twenty-fifth  session  that  the  images  of 
Christ,  of  the  holy  Virgin,  and  of  other  saints  are  to  be 
placed  in  churches;  that  they  ought  to  receive  due 
veneration,  not  because  they  have  any  divinity  or  vir- 
tue in  them,  but  because  honor  is  thus  reflected  upon 
those  whom  they  represent ; so  that  the  people,  by  kiss- 
ing the  images,  bowing  to  them,  etc.,  pray  to  Christ 
and  honor  the  saints  whom  the  images  represent.  This 
image-worship  led  to  pilgrimages  to  the  shrines  of 
saints  great  in  repute  for  their  power.  The  Greek 
Church  admits  only  the  painted  and  raised  images,  not 
carved  figures,  like  the  Church  of  Rome.  All  the  Chris- 
tian sects  in  the  East  are  given  to  image-worship  with 
the  exception  of  the  Nestorians,  the  Christians  of  St. 
Thomas,  and  the  Russian  Roskolniki.  The  German  Re- 
formers, although  opposing  image-worship,  held  some- 
what different  opinions  on  the  subject:  thus  Luther 
tolerated  images  as  an  ornament,  and  also  as  edifying 
mementoes,  and  condemned  the  destruction  of  the  im- 
ages and  the  altars  at  Wittenberg  in  1522.  The  Swiss 
Reformers  opposed  images  in  any  shape  or  for  any  pur- 
pose, and  had  them  taken  out  of  all  the  churches — often 
with  great  violence,  as  in  the  Netherlands.  They  are 
not  even  now  tolerated  in  the  Reformed  Church,  nor  in 
the  particular  denominations  that  have  sprung  from  it. 
Mohammedanism  proscribes  image-worship;  it  even 
forbids  the  reproduction  of  the  image  of  any  living  be- 


ing, though  it  be  not  for  the  purpose  of  worshipping  it. 
See  Wessenberg,  Die  chrisilichen  Bilder,  ein  Befbrde- 
rungs  mittel  d.  cliristl . Sinnes  (Constanz,  1827,  2 vols.)  ; 
Schlosser,  Gesch.  der  Bilderstiirmenden  Kaiser  (Frankf. 
ad.M.  1812) ; Marx,  Der  Bilderstreit  der  Byzaniinisclien 
Kaiser  (Trier,  1839);  Ketzer  Lex.  ii,  287;  Milman’s 
Gibbon,  Decline  and  Fall  of  Rom.  Emp . v,  10  sq. ; Mil- 
man,  Latin  Christianity,  ii,  293  sq. ; Piercr,  Universal 
Lexikon , s.  v.  Bilder;  Bingham,  Orig.  Eccles.  book  riii, 
ch.  viii ; Butler,  Eccles.  Ilist.  (Phila.  18G8),  i,  SCO  sq. ; 
Ranke,  History  of  the  Popes,  i,  19-25.  See  Image-wou- 
ship.  (J.  H.W.) 

Iconoclasts.  See  Icoxoclasm. 

Iconodulists.  See  Image- worship. 

Iconography  (tiicibv, image,  and  ypdfpui,  I describe), 
the  science  of"  so-called  “ Christian  art”  in  the  Middle 
Ages.  It  includes,  therefore,  the  history  and  descrip- 
tion of  images,  pictures,  mosaics,  gems,  emblems,  etc. 
There  exist  in  our  day  many  exquisite  specimens  of 
Christian  iconography,  which  are  preserved  in  libraries 
and  museums,  and  are  invaluable  to  us  in  determining 
the  exact  history  of  this  “Christian  art.”  The  charac- 
ter of  the  illustrations,  the  form  of  the  letters,  suffice  to 
determine  the  age  and  country  where  the  work  was  pro- 
duced. Thus  a comparison  of  MSS.  of  Eastern  and 
Western  Europe  brings  before  us  the  several  stages 
which  mark  the  growth  of  Christian  iconography.  See 
Illumination,  Art  of.  The  most  important  modem 
work  on  the  subject  is  Didron,  Manuel  d'Iconogrophie 
Chretienne  (Paris,  1845, 8vo);  trans.  into  English,  Chris- 
tian Iconography,  vol.  i (London,  1851,  12mo).  Older 
works  are,  Paleotti,  De  imag.  sacr.  et  profanis  (Ingolst. 
1594,  4to) ; Molanus,  De  Piet,  et  Imagg.  Sacris  (Louv. 
1570) ; De  I/istoria  Sacr.  Imagg.  et  Picturarum  ( 1 G 1 9, 
12mo)  ; Miinter,  SinnUlder  der  Alten  Christen  (Altona, 
1825,  2 vols.  4to)  ; Wessenberg,  Die  Christ!.  Bilder  (Con- 
stance, 1827).  See  Image- worship.  (J.  H.W.) 

Iconolatry  (eikmv,  image , and  Xarptta,  worship), 
the  worship  or  adoration  of  images.  Hence  image-wor- 
shippers are  called  Iconolatrec,  or  Iconolaters.  See  Im- 
age-worship. 

Iconomachy.  See  Icoxoclasm. 

Iconostasis  ({iVono'dratm)  is  that  part  of  an 
Eastern  church  which  corresponds  to  the  altar-rails  in 
English  churches.  It  is  often  mistaken  for  the  rood- 
screen  (q.  v.),  which  in  its  general  arrangement  it  re- 
sembles, only  (the  mysteries  being  absolutely  to  be 
veiled  from  the  eyes  of  the  people)  the  panels  are  solid 
to  the  top.  The  rood-screen  separates  nave  and  choir; 
the  iconostasis, however,  separates  choir  and  bema.  “It 
has  three  doors;  that  in  the  centre  conducting  directly 
to  the  bema  ; that  to  the  right  to  the  diaconicon ; that 
of  the  left  to  the  prothesis,  through  which,  of  course, 
the  great  entrance  is  made.  On  the  right  of  the  cen- 
tral door,  on  entering,  is  the  icon  of  our  Lord ; on  the 
left,  that  of  the  mother  of  God ; the  others  are  arranged 
according  to  the  taste  or  devotion  of  the'  architect  or 
founder.”  The  earliest  iconostasis  is  believed  to  be  the 
one  remaining  in  the  Arian  crvpt-cliurch  of  Tepcker- 
man,  in  the  Crimea,  which  probably  dates  from  about 
A.D.  350. — Neale,  Ilisi.  Eastern  Church,  Iutrod.  i,  191 
sq. 

Ida,  first  abbess  of  the  convent  cf  Argensolcs,  flour- 
ished in  the  first  half  of  the  13th  century.  She  was  a 
remarkable  woman,  very  learned,  and  acknowledged  to 
have  disputed  on  the  most  intricate  theological  questions 
with  great  ability.  She  died  in  122G.  Iler  life  was 
written  by  a monk  of  C’iteaux,  but  remains  in  MS.  form. 
—Ilistoire  Lift,  de  la  France,  xviii,  251 ; Hoefcr,  Noui\ 
Biog.  Generals,  xxvi,  174. 

Id'alah  (Heb.  Yulalah',  i"T'8n",  probably  exalted; 
Sept.  TaeqXa),  a city  near  the  western  border  of  Zebu- 
Ion,  mentioned  between  Shimron  and  Bethlehem  (Josh, 
xix,  15).  According  to  Schwarz,  it  is  called  Chirii  in 
the  Talmud,  and  is  identical  with  the  village  KeUuh  al- 


IDBASIl 


465 


IDEALISM 


Chirk,  six  English  miles  south-west  of  Shimron  or  Se- 
munie  {Palestine,  p.  172).  He  doubtless  refers  to  the 
place  marked  oil  Robinson's  map  as  Kulat  el-Kireh , in 
the  valley  of  the  Kislion,  south-west  of  Semunieh  or 
fcdmonias ; a position  not  improbable,  especially  if  mark- 
ed by  the  ruins  on  the  north  side  of  the  river.  Dr. 
Robinson,  who  afterwards  visited  it,  calls  it  “ Jeida , a 
miserable  village  with  no  traces  of  antiquity”  {Later 
Researches , p.  113);  but  Yan  de  Yelde  shows  that  it  ac- 
tually has  many  marks,  although  now  much  obliterated, 
of  being  an  old  site  ( Memoir , p.  322). 

Idacius  or  Idathius,  surnamed  Clarus,  a Span- 
ish prelate,  was  born  in  the  first  half  of  the  4th  century. 
After  his  accession  to  the  bishopric  of  Erncrida  he  dis- 
tinguished himself  by  the  intemperate  zeal  with  which, 
together  with  Ithacius  (q.  v.),  bishop  of  Ossonoba,  he 
opposed  the  heresy  of  I’riscillian  (q.  v.).  He  wrote  a 
refutation  of  the  latter’s  doctrine  under  the  title  Apolo- 
geticas,  which  is  now  lost.  In  388,  after  the  death  of 
the  emperor  Maximus,  who  had  persecuted  the  Priscil- 
lianists,  Idacius  resigned  his  bishopric.  Having  subse- 
quently attempted  to  regain  it,  he  was  exiled,  and  died 
about  the  year  392.  According  to  Sulpitius  Severus, 
Idacius’s  conduct  was  less  severely  judged  by  his  con- 
temporaries than  that  of  Ithacius.  The  writings  as- 
cribed to  him  are  given  in  the  Bibliotheca  Patrum , vol. 
v.  See  Sulpitius  Severus,  Historia  Sacra ; Isidore  of 
Seville,  De  Scriptoribus  Ecclesiasticis  ; Antonio,  Bibl. 
Ilispana  vetus,  i,  172;  Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biogr.  Generate, 
xxix,  775;  Neander,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  111  sq. ; Kurtz,  Ch. 
Hist,  i,  214  sq.  See  Priscileianists. 

Idacius  of  Lamego  ( Lamecensis ),  who  became 
bishop  of  Gallicia  in  427,  distinguished  himself  by  his 
opposition  to  the  Manichaeans,  whom  he  sought  to  drive 
from  Spain.  He  is  supposed  to  have  died  in  4G9.  He 
is  the  author  of  a history,  a continuation  of  the  Chroni- 
cles of  St.  Hieronymus,  beginning  with  the  year  379  and 
ending  with  468.  The  assertion  that  this  work  origi- 
nated with  Pelagins,  bishop  of  Osiedo,  in  the  12th  cen- 
tury, is  by  no  means  satisfactorily  proved.  It  has  often 
been  printed  and  annotated,  as  by  Sirmond,  Opp.  vol.  ii; 
Bouquet,  Scriptt.  Franc,  vol.  i ; and  best  by  Florez  Es- 
pann.  Sagrada , iv,  345  sq.  He  is  also  supposed  to  be 
the  author  of  Fasti  consulares. — Aschbach,  Kirch. -Lex. 
iii,  402. 

Id'bash  (Ileb.  Yidbash',  llis^prob .honeyed;  Sept. 
’lyafiijg  v.  r.  ’lifidag,  Vulg.  Jedebos ),  a descendant  of 
Judah,  who,  with  his  two  brothers  and  a sister  ( the 
Tselelponite),  are  said  (1  Chron.  iv,  3,  according  to  the 
Auth.  Yers.)  to  be  “of  the  father  of  Etara,”  probably 
meaning  of  the  lineage  of  the  founder  of  that  place,  or 
perhaps  they  were  themselves  its  settlers.  B.C.  cir. 
1612.  See  Jezreel  2. 

Id'do,  the  name  of  several  men  in  the  Old  Testa- 
ment, of  different  forms  in  the  Hebrew. 

1.  Id  do'  (Vn^*,  timely,  or  born  to  a festival;  Sept. 
’A^i,  Vulg.  Addo),  a Levite,  son  of  Joah  and  father  of 
Zerah  (1  Chron.  vi,21) ; called  more  accurately  perhaps 
Adaiah  in  ver.  41. 

2.  Yiddo'  (Yn,  lovely;  Sept.  ’laddai,  Yulg.  Jaddo), 
son  of  Zechariah,  and  David’s  viceroy  of  the  half  tribe 
of  Manasseh  east  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  21).  B.C.  1014. 

3.  Iddo'  (SCn:?,  a prolonged  form  of  No.  1 ; Sept. 
’AcWw,  Yulg.  Addo),  the  father  of  Ahinadab,  which  lat- 
ter was  Solomon’s  purveyor  in  the  district  of  Mahanaim 
(1  Kings  iv,  14).  B.C.  cir.  995. 

4.  Iddo ' (VHi1,  same  as  first  name,  2 Chron.  xii,  15; 

xiii,  22;  Sept.  ’AeSd),  Vulg.  Addo)  or  Yedo'  (n??,  2 
Chron.  ix,  29,  margin,  but  Yedi',  text;  both  less 

accurate  forms  for  the  last  name ; Sept,  has  TW/X,  Yulg. 
Addo,  A. Vers.  “Iddo”),  a prophet  of  Judah,  who  wrote 
the  history  of  Rehoboam  and  Abijah ; or  rather,  per- 
haps, who,  in  conjunction  with  Seraiah,  kept  the  public 
rolls  during  their  reigns  (2  Chron.  xii,  15);  and  who  in 

iv. — G g 


that  capacity  recorded  certain  predictions  against  Jero- 
boam (2  Chron.  ix,  29 ; although  Bertheau,  ad  loc.,  and 
Ewald,  Is r.  Gesch.,  3d  ed.,  i,  21G,  think  this  a different 
person).  B.C.  post  953.  It  seems  from  2 Chron.  xiii,  22 
that  he  named  his  book  Midrash,  or  “ Exposi- 

tion.” Josephus  (Ant.  viii,  9,  1)  states  that  this  Iddo 
(’laSutv)  was  the  prophet  who  was  sent  to  Jeroboam  at 
Bethel,  and  consequently  the  same  that  was  slain  by  a 
lion  for  disobedience  to  his  instructions  (1  Kings  xiii) ; 
and  many  commentators  have  followed  this  statement. — 
Kit  to.  ile  is  also  identified  with  Oded  (sec  Jerome  on 
2 Chron.  xv,  1). — Smith. 

5.  Iddo'  (jn5,  same  name  as  last,  Zech.  i,  I,  else- 
where fiti’nS,  id.;  but  Iddi',  apparently  by  error, 

in  Neb.  xii,  1G ; Sept.  ’A ccio,  but  ’Adaiag  in  Neh.  xii,  4, 
and  ‘ASaSat  in  Nell,  xii,  16;  Vulg.  Addo,  but  Adaja  in 
Neh.  xii,  16),  the  father  of  Barachiah  and  grandfather 
of  the  prophet  Zechariah  (Zech.  i,  1,  7 ; comp.  Ezra  v, 
1;  vi,  14;  Neh. xii,  16).  He  was  one  of  the  chief  priests 
who  returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Neh.  xii, 
4).  B.C.  536. 

6.  Iddo'  (YnX,  mishap;  Sept,  omits,  Vulg.  Eddo ), 
chief  of  the  Jews  of  the  Captivity  established  at  Ca- 
siphia,  a place  of  which  it  is  difficult  to  determine  the 
position.  It  was  to  him  that  Ezra  sent  a requisition 
for  Levites  and  Nethinim,  none  of  whom  had  yet  joined 
his  caravan.  Thirty-eight  Levites  and  250  Nethinim 
responded  to  his  call  (Ezra  viii,  17-20).  B.C.  459.  It 
would  seem  from  this  that  Iddo  was  a chief  person  of 
the  Nethinim,  descended  from  those  Gibeonites  who 
were  charged  with  the  servile  labors  of  the  tabernacle 
and  Temple.  This  is  one  of  several  circumstances  which 
indicate  that  the  Jews,  in  their  several  colonies  under 
the  Exile,  were  still  ruled  by  the  heads  of  their  nation, 
and  allowed  the  free  exercise  of  their  worship — Ivitto. 

7.  See  Jadan. 

Idealism  (from  idea)  is  a term  given  to  several 
systems  of  philosophy,  and  therefore  varying  in  its  sig- 
nification according  to  the  meaning  which  they  sever- 
ally attach  to  the  word  idea.  Until  the  17th  century, 
when  Descartes  came  forward  with  his  Discourse  on 
Method  (1637),  it  had  the  signification  which  Plato  gave 
to  it,  and  was  understood  to  refer  to  the  Platonic  doc- 
trine of  eternal  forms  ( idtai ) existing  in  the  divine 
mind,  according  to  which  the  world  and  all  sensible 
things  were  framed.  “Plato  agreed  with  the  rest  of 
the  ancient  philosophers  in  this— that  all  things  consist 
of  matter  and  form,  and  that  the  matter  of  which  all 
things  were  made  existed  from  eternity  without  form ; 
but  he  likewise  believed  that  there  arc  eternal  forms  of 
all  possible  things  which  exist  without  matter,  and  to 
those  eternal  and  immaterial  forms  he  gave  the  name 
of  ideas.  In  the  Platonic  sense,  then,  ideas  were  the 
patterns  according  to  which  the  deity  fashioned  the 
phenomenal  or  ectvpal  world”  (Reid,  Intellectual  Powers, 
Ess.  i,  chap.  ii).  The  word  was  used  in  this  sense  not 
only  in  philosophy,  but  also  in  literature,  down  to  the 
17th  century,  as  in  Spenser,  Shakspeare,  Hooker,  and 
Milton.  Thus  Milton,  in  his  Paradise  Lost : 

“God  saw  his  works  were  good, 
Answering  his  fair  idea." 

Sir  William  Hamilton,  who  informs  us  that  the  change 
of  signification  of  idea  was  first  introduced  by  David  Bu- 
chanan in  1636,  one  year  earlier  than  Descartes,  says  in 
his  Discussions,  p.70 : “The  fortune  of  this  word  is  cu- 
rious. Employed  by  Plato  to  express  the  real  forms  of 
the  intelligible  world,  in  lofty  contrast  with  the  unreal 
images  of  the  sensible,  it  was  lowered  by  Descartes,  who 
extended  it  to  the  objects  of  our  consciousness  in  gen- 
eral. When,  after  Gassendi,  the  school  of  Condillac 
had  analyzed  our  highest  faculties  into  our  lowest,  the 
idea  was  still  more  deeply  degraded  from  its  high  orig- 
inal. Like  a fallen  angel,  it  was  relegated  from  the 
sphere  of  divine  intelligence  to  the  atmosphere  of  human 
sense,  till  at  last  ideologic  (more  correctly  idealogie),  a 


466 


IDLE 


IDEALISM 


word  which  could  only  properly  suggest  an  a priori 
scheme,  deducing  our  knowledge  from  the  intellect,  has 
in  France  become  the  name  peculiarly  distinctive  of 
that  philosophy  of  mind  which  exclusively  derives  our 
knowledge  from  the  senses.”  Instead  of  employing  the 
terms  image,  species,  phantasm,  etc.,  with  reference  to  the 
mental  representation  of  external  things,  as  had  pre- 
viously been  done,  Descartes  adopted  the  word  idea. 
In  this  use  of  the  word  he  was  followed  by  other  philos- 
ophers, as  Leibnitz  and  Locke,  who  desired  the  word  to 
stand  for  “whatever  is  the  object  of  the  understand- 
ing when  a man  thinks.”  Hence  the  mental  impression 
that  we  are  supposed  to  have  when  thinking  of  the  sun, 
without  seeing  the  actual  object,  is  called  our  idea  of 
the  sun.  The  idea  is  thus  in  contrast  with  the  sensa- 
tion, or  the  feeling  that  we  have  when  the  senses  are 
engaged  directly  or  immediately  upon  the  thing  itself. 
The  sensation  is  the  result  of  the  pressure  of  the  object, 
and  declares  an  external  reality;  the  impression  per- 
sisting after  the  thing  has  gone,  and  recoverable  by 
mental  causes  without  the  original,  is  the  idea.  Al- 
though the  wrord  in  this  application  may  be  so  guarded 
as  to  lead  to  no  bad  consequences,  Reid  (Intell.  rote.  Ess. 
i,  chap,  i)  most  vehemently  protested  against  its  use  in 
such  a sense,  holding  that  it  gave  countenance  to  the 
setting  up  of  a new  and  fictitious  element  in  the  opera- 
tions of  the  mind.  But  this  raises  the  great  ques- 
tion of  metaphysics,  namely,  the  exact  nature  of  our 
knowledge  of  an  external  world.  Bishop  Berkeley  (q. 
v.),how'ever,  must  be  regarded  as  the  true  representa- 
tive of  modern  idealism.  He  held  that  “the  qualities 
of  supposed  objects  cannot  be  perceived  distinct  from 
the  mind  that  perceives  them ; and  these  qualities,  it 
will  be  allowed,  are  all  that  we  can  know  of  such  ob- 
jects. If,  therefore,  there  were  external  bodies,  it  is  im- 
possible we  should  ever  know  it ; and  if  there  were  not, 
we  should  have  exactly  the  same  reason  for  believing 
there  were  as  we  now  have.  All,  therefore,  which  really 
exists  is  spirit,  or  ‘the  thinking  principle’ — ourselves,  our 
fellow-men,  and  God.  What  we  call  ideas  are  present- 
ed to  us  by  God  in  a certain  order  of  succession,  which 
order  of  successive  presentation  is  what  we  mean  by  the 
laws  of  nature.”  This  mode  of  speculation  of  bishop 
Berkeley,  which  he  defended  with  so  much  acuteness, 
and  which  Lewis  (Hist,  of  Phil,  ii,  283)  now  goes  forth 
to  defend,  claiming  that  the  bishop’s  critics  misunder- 
stood him,  he  held  to  be  the  only  possible  true  view  of 
our  nature  and  the  government  of  God.  But  there  is 
no  question  that,  whatever  benefits  it  may  have  bestow- 
ed upon  the  bishop  and  his  immediate  disciples,  it  has 
been  found, practically,  to  lead  to  scepticism.  “By  tak- 
ing away  the  grounds  of  a belief  which  is  both  natural 
and  universal,  and  which  cannot,  at  first,  be  even  doubt- 
ed without  a severe  exercise  of  thought,  it  shook  men’s 
faith  in  all  those  primary  truths  which  are  at  once  the 
basis  of  their  knowledge  and  the  guides  of  their  con- 
duct. It  seemed,  to  throw  distrust  on  the  evidence  of 
the  senses,  as  it  really  invalidated  the  spontaneous  con- 
clusions which  every  man  inevitably  forms  from  that 
evidence.”  This  theory  is  conclusively  proved  by  the 
conduct  of  Hume;  for,  if  a main  pillar  of  the  edifice 
could  so  easily  be  shaken,  what  was  there  to  hmder 
from  throwing  down  the  whole  fabric?  Beginning 
where  Berkeley  began,  Hume  proceeded  much  farther, 
and  left  nnassailed  hardly  one  article  of  human  faith. 
He  denied  the  reality  not  only  of  the  object  perceived, 
but  of  the  mind  perceiving.  He  reduced  all  thinking 
existence  to  a succession  of  rapidly  fleeting  ideas,  each 
one  being  known  only  at  the  instant  of  its  manifestation 
to  consciousness,  and  then  fading  away,  leaving  no  surely 
recognisable  trace  of  itself  on  the  memory,  and  affording 
no  ground  for  an  anticipation  of  the  future.  We  do  not 
even  know,  he  maintains,  that  any  one  thing  depends 
upon  another  in  the  relation  of  an  effect  to  its  cause. 
We  know  no  true  cause  whatever,  and  our  only  idea  of 
power  is  a fiction  and  a blunder.  The  conclusion  of  the 
Whole  matter,  according  to  his  philosophy,  is,  not  the 


mere  negation  of  this  or  that  positive  belief,  but  univer- 
sal distrust  of  the  human  faculties,  considered  as  means 
for  the  acquisition  of  truth.  They  contradict  each  Oili- 
er, and  leave  nothing  certain  except  that  nothing  can 
be  known.  See  Hume;  Reid.  The  German  philos- 
ophers Kant,  Fichte,  and  Schilling,  who  are  often  class- 
ed among  the  idealistic  school,  used  the  word  idea  in 
the  Platonic  or  transcendental  sense.  Hegel,  on  the 
other  hand,  modified  the  use  of  the  word  to  such  an  ex- 
tent that  his  idealism  does  not  only  deserve  to  be  called 
a&sofofe-idealism,  but  much  more  properly  pantheistic, 
no  less  than  the  doctrine  of  the  Eleatics  anciently,  or 
of  Spinoza  in  modem  times.  It  is  thus  apparent,  from 
the  looseness  of  the  application  of  the  word  idea,  and 
the  danger  of  its  not  conveying  a definite  signification, 
that  we  need  a general  word  in  the  English  language 
which  may  more  accurately  express  the  contrast  to  sen- 
sation or  to  actuality.  But,  as  no  better  has  yet  been 
found,  it  is  difficult  to  avoid  the  use  of  ideality,  “being 
what  is  common  to  memory  and  to  imagination,  and 
expressing  the  mind  as  not  under  the  present  impression 
of  real  objects,  but  as,  by  its  own  tenacity  and  associa- 
ting powers,  having  those  objects  to  all  practical  ends  be- 
fore its  view.  Thus  all  our  sensations,  whether  of  sight, 
hearing,  touch,  taste,  or  smell,  and  all  the  feelings  that 
we  have  in  the  exercise  of  our  moving  energies,  become 
transformed  into  ideas  when,  without  the  real  presence 
of  the  original  agency,  we  can  deal  with  them  in  the 
way  of  pursuit  or  avoidance,  or  can  discriminate  and 
compare  them,  nearly  as.  if  in  their  first  condition  as 
sensation.”  Sir  W.  Hamilton,  in  his  Lectures  on  Logic 
(i,  126),  has  endeavored  to  avoid  employing  the  word, 
but  other  writers  on  mental  philosophy  have  freely 
adopted  it  in  the  above  acceptation.  See  Chambers, 
Cyclop,  v,  510  sq.;  Krautb’s  Fleming,  Vocah,  of  Philos. 
p.  222  sq. ; Brando  and  Cox,  Diet,  of  Science,  Lit.  and 
Art,  ii,  189;  Morell , History  of  Philos,  p.  55  sq.;  Lewis, 
Ilist.  of  Philos,  (enlarged  ed.),  see  Index;  Farrar,  Crit. 
Hist,  of  Free  Thought,  p.  422;  M‘Cosh,  Intuitions  of  the 
Mind,  p.  317  sq. ; Morell's  Tenncmann,  Hist,  of  Philos. 
see  Index ; X.  A . Rev.  No.  Ixxvi,  p.  60  sq. ; Jour.  Sac.  Lit. 
xx, 298  sq.  See  Nihilism;  Realism.  (J.  H.W.) 

Idiotae  (ihCLrai,  private  men),  a term  applied  by 
some  early  writers  to  laymen  in  distinction  from  minis- 
ters (cXI/poi).  Chrysostom  (Ilomil.  35)  and  Theodoret 
(Conan,  in  1 Cor.)  employ  the  word  in  this  signification, 
and  show  that  the  apostle  Paul  (1  Cor.  xiv,  16)  thus 
designates  a private  person,  whether  learned  or  un- 
learned. So  also  Origen,  Contra  Cels,  vii,  p.  334.  See 
Bingham,  Orig.  Eccles.  bk.  i,  ch.  v,  § 6.  See  Laity. 

Idiotes  (Gr.  I’foonje)  is  a term  sometimes  used  in 
the  orthodox  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  of  the  Godhead  to 
designate  the  property  (Lat .proprietas)  of  each  divine 
person.  This  must,  however,  not  be  confounded  with 
the  divine  attributes  (eternity,  omnipresence,  omnipo- 
tence, etc.),  for  they  arc  inherent  in  the  divine  essence , 
and  are  the  common  possession  of  all  the  divine  hypos- 
tases, while  the  idiotes,  on  the  other  band,  is  a peculiar- 
ity of  the  hyjwstasis,  and  therefore  cannot  be  communi- 
cated or  transferred  from  one  to  another. — Sehaff.  Ch. 
Ilist.  iii,  679.  See  Trinity. 

Idle  slothful,  also  deceitful;  to  be  weal', 

in  Niph.  to  be  lazy,  Exod.  v,  8,  17 ; indolence, 

Prov.  xxxi,  27;  remissness,  Eccles.  x,  18; 

Zip'",  to  rest,  Ezek.  xvi,  49;  dpyoc,  not  v'orling,  liter- 
ally, Matt,  xx,  3,  6 ; 1 Tim.  v,  13  ; unfruitful,  2 Pet.  i,  8 ; 
stupid,  Tit.  i,  12 ; morally,  Matt,  xii,  36 ; Xrpoc,  an  “ idle 
tale,”  Luke  xxiv,  11).  Of  the  foregoing  instances  of 
the  use  of  this  word,  the  only  one  requiring  special  con- 
sideration is  Matt,  xii,  36,  “I  say  unto  you,  that  every 
idle  word  that  men  shall  speak,  they  shall  give  an  ac- 
count thereof  in  the  day  of  judgment,”  where  there  has 
been  considerable  difference  of  opinion  as  to  the  inter- 
pretation of  pij pa  dpyor,  translated  “idle  word.”  To 
the  ordinary  explanation,  -which  makes  the  phrase  here 


IDLENESS 


467 


IDOL 


equivalent  to  vain,  and  hence  wicked  language,  J.  A.  II. 
Tittman,  in  an  extended  criticism  (On  the  principal 
Causes  of  Forced  Interpret,  of  the,  N.  T.,  printed  in  the 
Amer.  Bib.  Repos,  for  1831,  p.  481-484),  objects  that  it 
violates  the  native  meaning  of  the  word,  which  rather 
denotes  an  empty,  inconsiderate,  and  hence  insincere 
conversation  or  statement,  appealing  to  the  context, 
which  is  aimed  at  the  hypocrital  Pharisees.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  usual  interpretation  is  supported  by 
the  actual  occurrence  of  Tcovqpdv,  wicked,  in  the  parallel 
verse  35,  and  by  the  usage  of  other  Greek  writers,  e.  g., 
Symmachus  in  Lev.  xix,7,  for  ^*132,  where  Sept,  ddvro v; 
Xenoph.  Mem.  i,  2, 57 ; Cicero,  de  Fat.  1 2.  (See  Kuinol,  ad 
loc.)  The  term  is  probably  intended  to  be  of  wide  sig- 
nification, so  as  to  include  both  these  senses,  namely, 
levity  and  calumny,  as  being  both  species  of  untruth  and 
heedlessly  uttered,  yet  productive  of  mischief. 

Idleness,  aversion  from  labor.  The  idle  man  is, 
in  every  view,  both  foolish  and  criminal.  He  lives  not 
to  God.  Idleness  was  not  made  for  man,  nor  man  for 
idleness.  A small  measure  of  reflection  might  convince 
every  one  that  for  some  useful  purpose  he  was  sent  into 
the  world.  Man  is  placed  at  the  head  of  all  things  here 
below.  He  is  furnished  with  a great  preparation  of  fac- 
ulties and  powers.  He  is  enlightened  by  reason  with 
many  important  discoveries;  even  taught  by  revelation 
to  consider  himself  as  ransomed  by  the  death  of  Christ 
from  misery,  and  intended  to  rise  to  a still  higher  rank 
in  the  universe  of  God.  In  such  a situation,  thus  dis- 
tinguished, thus  favored,  and  assisted  by  his  Creator, 
does  he  answer  the  end  of  his  being  if  he  aim  at  no  im- 
provement, if  he  pursue  no  useful  design,  if  he  live  for 
no  other  purpose  than  to  indulge  in  sloth,  to  consume 
the  fruits  of  the  earth,  and  spend  his  days  in  a dream 
of  vanity?  Existence  is  a sacred  trust,  and  he  who 
thus  misemploys  and  squanders  it  away  is  treacherous 
to  its  author.  Look  around,  and  you  will  behold  the 
whole  universe  full  of  active  powers.  Action  is,  so 
to  speak,  the  genius  of  nature.  By  motion  and  exer- 
tion, the  system  of  being  is  preserved  in  vigor.  By  its 
different  parts  always  acting  in  subordination  to  each 
other,  the  perfection  of  the  whole  is  carried  on.  The 
heavenly  bodies  perpetually  revolve.  Day  and  night 
incessantly  repeat  their  appointed  course.  Continual 
operations  arc  performing  on  the  earth  and  in  the  wa- 
ters. Nothing  stands  still.  All  is  alive  and  stirring 
throughout  the  universe.  In  the  midst  of  this  ani- 
mated and  busy  scene,  is  man  alone  to  remain  idle  in 
his  place?  Belongs  it  to  him  to  be  the  sole  inactive 
and  slothful  being  in  the  creation,  when  in  so  many 
ways  he  might  improve  his  own  nature,  might  advance 
the  glory  of  the  God  who  made  him,  and  contribute  his 
part  to  the  general  good?  The  idle  live  not  to  the 
world  and  their  fellow-creatures  any  more  than  to  God. 
If  any  man  had  a title  to  stand  alone,  and  to  be  inde- 
pendent of  his  fellows,  he  might  consider  himself  as  at 
liberty  to  indulge  in  solitary  ease  and  sloth,  without 
being  responsible  to  others  for  the  manner  in  which  he 
chooses  to  live.  But  there  is  no  such  person  in  the 
world.  We  are  connected  with  each  other  by  various 
relations,  which  create  a chain  of  mutual  dependence 
that  reaches  from  the  highest  to  the  lowest  station  in 
society.  Without  a perpetual  circulation  of  active  du- 
ties and  offices,  which  all  are  required  to  perform  in  their 
turn,  the  order  and  happiness  of  the  world  could  not  be 
maintained.  Superiors  ore  no  more  independent  of  their 
inferiors  than  these  inferiors  of  them.  Each  have  de- 
mands and  claims  upon  the  other ; and  he  who,  in  any 
situation  of  life,  refuses  to  act  his  part,  and  to  contribute 
his  share  to  the  general  stock  of  felicity,  deserves  to  be  I 
proscribed  from  society  as  an  unworthy  member.  “ If 
any  man  will  not  work,”  says  Paul  (2  Thess.  iii,  10), 
“neither  shall  he  eat.”  If  he  will  do  nothing  to  ad- 
vance the  purposes  of  society,  he  has  no  right  to  enjoy 
its  benefits. 

The  idle  man  lives  not  to  himself  with  any  more  ad- 
vantage than  he  lives  to  the  world.  Though  he  imag- 


ines that  he  leaves  to  others  the  drudgery  of  life,  and 
betakes  himself  to  enjoyment  and  ease,  yet  he  enjoys  no 
true  pleasure.  He  shuts  the  door  against  improvement 
of  every  kind,  whether  of  mind,  body,  or  fortune.  Sloth 
enfeebles  equally  the  bodily  and  the  mental  powers. 
His  character  foils  into  contempt.  His  fortune  is  con- 
sumed. Disorder,  confusion,  and  embarrassment  mark 
his  wdiole  situation.  Idleness  is  the  inlet  to  licentious- 
ness, vice,  and  immorality.  It  destroys  the  principles 
of  religion,  and  opens  a door  to  sin  and  wickedness.  Ev- 
ery mail  who  recollects  his  conduct  must  know  that  his 
hours  of  idleness  always  proved  the  hours  most  danger- 
ous to  virtue.  It  was  then  that  criminal  desires  arose, 
guilty  passions  were  suggested,  and  designs  were  formed, 
which,  in  their  issue,  disquiet  and  embitter  his  whole 
life.  Habitual  idleness,  hv  a silent  and  secret  progress, 
undermines  every  virtue  in  the  soul.  More  violent  pas- 
sions run  their  course  and  terminate.  They  are  like 
rapid  torrents,  which  foam,  and  swell,  and  bear  down  ev- 
erything before  them ; but,  after  having  overflowed  their 
banks,  their  impetuosity  subsides,  and  they  return,  by 
degrees,  into  their  natural  channel.  Sloth  resembles 
the  slowly- flowing  putrid  stream,  which  stagnates  in 
the  marsh,  produces  venomous  animals  and  poisonous 
plants,  and  infects  with  pestilential  vapors  the  whole 
surrounding  country.  Having  once  tainted  the  soul, 
it  leaves  no  part  of  it  sound,  and,  at  the  same  time,  it 
gives  not  to  conscience  those  alarms  which  the  erup- 
tions of  bolder  and  fiercer  emotions  often  occasion. 
Nothing  is  so  great  an  enemy  to  the  lively  and  spirited 
enjoyment  of  life  as  a relaxed  and  indolent  habit  of 
mind.  He  who  knows  not  what  it  is  to  labor,  knows 
not  what  it  is  to  enjoy.  The  happiness  of  human  life 
depends  on  the  regular  prosecution  of  some  laudable 
purpose  or  object,  which  keeps  awake  and  enlivens  all 
our  powers.  Rest  is  agreeable,  but  it  is  only  from  pre- 
ceding labors  that  rest  acquires  its  true  relish.  When 
the  mind  is  suffered  to  remain  in  continued  inaction,  all 
its  powers  decay : it  soon  languishes  and  sickens ; and 
the  pleasures  which  it  proposed  to  obtain  from  rest  ter- 
minate in  tediousness  and  insipidity.  See  Blair,  Ser- 
mons, Sermon  xxxix ; Warner,  System  of  Divinity  and 
Morality,  iii,  151 ; Logan,  Sermons,  Sermon  iv;  liobin- 
son,  Theoloyical  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Idol,  properly  an  outward  object  adored  as  divine,  or 
as  the  symbol  of  deity.  See  Idolatry. 

I.  Classification  of  Scriptural  terms  having  physical 
reference  to  such  objects. — As  a large  number  of  different 
Hebrew  words  have  been  rendered  in  the  A.  V.  either 
by  idol  or  image,  and  that  by  no  means  uniformly  (be- 
sides one  or  more  in  Greek  more  uniformly  translated), 
it  will  be  of  some  advantage  to  attempt  to  discriminate 
between  them,  and  assign,  as  nearly  as  the  two  lan- 
guages will  allow',  the  English  equivalents  for  each. 
Sec  Image. 

(I.)  Abstract  terms,  which,  with  a deep  moral  signifi- 
cance, express  the  degradation  associated  with  idolatry, 
and  stand  out  as  a protest  of  the  language  against  its 
enormities. 

(i.)  General  terms  of  doubtful  signification. — 1.  b^bx, 
eliV,  is  thought  by  some  to  have  a sense  akin  to  that  of 
she'ker,  “ falsehood,”  with  which  it  stands  in  par- 
allelism in  Job  xiii,4,  and  would  therefore  much  resem- 
ble dven,  as  applied  to  an  idol.  It  is  generally  derived 
from  the  unused  root  bbx,  to  be  empty  or  vain.  De- 
litzsch  (on  Hab.  ii,  18)  derives  it  from  the  negative  par- 
ticle bx,  al,  “die  Nichtigen;”  but  according  to  Fiirst 
(Uandw.  s.  v.)  it  is  a diminutive  of  bx,  “god,”  the  addi- 
tional syllable  indicating  the  greatest  contempt.  In 
this  case  the  signification  above  mentioned  is  a sub- 
sidiary one.  The  same  authority  asserts  that  the  v'ord 
denotes  a small  image  of  the  god,  which  was  consulted 
as  an  oracle  among  the  Egyptians  and  Phoenicians  (Isa. 
xix,  3;  Jer.  xiv,  14).  It  is  certainly  used  of  the  idols 
of  Noph  or  Memphis  (Ezek.  xxx,  13).  In  strong  con- 
trast with  Jehovah,  it  appears  in  Psa.  xc,  5 ; xcvii,  7,  the 


IDOL 


468 


IDOL 


contrast  probably  being  heightened  by  the  resemblance 
between  tlilim  and  elohim.  A somewhat  similar  play 
upon  words  is  observable  in  Hab.  ii,  IS,  E^E^N  E^^N, 
eliUm  illernm , A.Y.  “ dumb  idols.”  See  El. 

2.  Er?^i)  gillulim',  also  a term  of  contempt,  of  un- 
certain origin  (Ezek.  xxx,  13),  but  probably  derived 
from  bbi,  to  roll,  as  dung,  hence  refuse.  The  liabbinieal 
authorities,  referring  to  such  passages  as  Ezek.  iv,  2 ; 
Zepli.  i,  17,  have  favored  the  interpretation  given  in  the 
margin  of  the  A.  Y.  to  Dent,  xxix,  17,  “dungy  gods” 
(Yuig.  “sordes,”  “sordes  idolorum,”  1 Kings  xv,  12). 
Jalm,  connecting  it  with  ^bl.gdlal,  “to  roll,”  applies  it 
to  the  stocks  of  trees  of  which  idols  were  made,  and  in 
mockery  called  gillulim,  “ rolling  things”  (a  volvendo,  lie 
says,  though  it  is  difficult  to  see  the  point  of  his  remark). 
Gesenius,  repudiating  the  derivation  from  the  Arabic 
jctllu,  “ to  be  great,  illustrious,”  gives  his  preference  to 
the  rendering  “ stones,  stone  gods,”  thus  deriving  it  from 
"~T>,  gal,  “a  heap  of  stones;”  and  in  this  he  is  followed  by 
Fiirst,  who  translates  gillul  by  the  German  “ Steinhaufe.” 
The  expression  is  applied,  principally  in  Ezekiel,  to  false 
gods  and  their  symbols  (Dent,  xxix,  17 ; Ezek.  viii,  10, 
etc.).  It  stands  side  by  side  with  other  contemptuous 
terms  in  Ezek.  xvi,  36;  xx,  8,  as,  for  example,  j’pd, 
shekels,  “filth,”  “abomination”  (Ezek.  viii,  10),  and  cog- 
nate terms.  See  Dung.  May  not  E'Wra  mean  scara- 
leei,  the  commonest  of  Egyptian  idols?  The  sense  of 
dung  is  appropriate  to  the  dung-beetle ; that  of  rolling 
is  doubtful,  for,  if  the  meaning  of  the  verb  be  retained, 
we  should,  in  this  form,  rather  expect  a passive  sense, 
“a  thing  rolled;”  but  it  may  be  observed  that  these 
grammatical  rules  of  the  sense  of  derivatives  are  not  al- 
ways to  be  strictly  insisted  on,  for  Sidon,  ‘pT'S,  though 
held  to  signify  “ the  place  of  fishing,”  is,  in  the  list  of 
the  Noachians,  the  name  of  a man,  “ the  fisherman,” 
'AXitvc,  of  Philo  of  Bvblus.  That  a speciallv-applicablc 
word  is  used  may  perhaps  be  conjectured  from  the  oc- 
currence of  E^b"bx,  which,  if  meaning  little  gods,  would 
aptly  describe  the  pigmy  pteii-seker-iiesar,  Ptali- 
Sokari  - Osiris,  of  Memphis.  Ezekiel  uses  the  term 
E^lbs  of  the  idols  of  Egypt  which  the  Israelites  were 
commanded  to  put  away  at  or  about  the  time  of  the 
Exodus,  but  did  not,  and  seem  to  have  carried  into  the 
Desert,  for  the  same  word  is  used,  unqualified  by  the 
mention  of  any  country,  of  those  worshipped  by  them 
in  the  Desert  (xx,  7, 8, 16, 18,  24) ; it  is,  however,  appa- 
rently employed  also  for  all  the  idols  worshipped  in 
Canaan  by  the  Israelites  (ver.  31 ; xxiii,  37).  Scarabaei 
were  so  abundant  among  the  Egyptians  and  Phoenicians 
that  there  is  no  reason  why  they  may  not  have  been 
employed  also  in  the  worship  of  the  Canaanitish  false 
gods;  but  it  cannot  be  safely  supposed,  without  further 
evidence,  that  the  idols  of  Canaan  were  virtually  termed 
scaraban.  See  Beetle. 

(ii.)  General  terms  of  knoicn  signification. — 3.  j'S, 
d'ven,  rendered  elsewhere  “nought,”  “vanity,”  “iniqui- 
ty,” “wickedness,”  “sorrow,"  etc.,  and  only  once  “idol” 
(Isa.  lxvi,  3).  The  primary  idea  of  the  root  seems  to 
be  emptiness , nothingness,  as  of  breath  or  vapor;  and, 
by  a natural  transition,  in  a moral  sense,  wickedness  in 
its  active  form  of  mischief;  and  then,  as  the  result,  sor- 
row and  trouble.  Hence  dren  denotes  a vain,  false, 
wicked  thing,  and  expresses  at  once  the  essential  nature 
of  idols,  and  the  consequences  of  their  worship.  The 
character  of  the  word  may  be  learnt  from  its  associates. 
It  stands  in  parallelism  with  ESN,  e' plies  (Isa.  xli,  29), 
which,  after  undergoing  various  modifications,  comes  at 
length  to  signify  “nothing ;”  with  ^EH,  he' lei,  “breath” 
or  “ vapor,”  itself  applied  as  a term  of  contempt  to  the 
objects  of  idolatrous  reverence  (Deut.  xxxii,  21 ; 1 Kings 
xvi,  13;  Psa.  xxxi,  6;  Jer.  viii,  19;  x,  8) ; with  NVE, 
shav,  “ nothingness,”  “ vanity ;”  and  with  *1 JEEJ,  she'ker, 
“ falsehood”  (Zech.  x,  2) ; all  indicating  the  utter  worth- 


lessness of  the  idols  to  whom  homage  was  paid,  and  the 
false  and  delusive  nature  of  their  worship.  It  is  em- 
ployed in  an  abstract  sense,  to  denote  idolatry  in  gen- 
eral, in  1 Sam.  xv,  23.  There  is  much  significance  in 
the  change  of  name  from  Bethel  to  Betli-aven,  the  great 
centre  of  idolatry  in  Israel  (Hos.  iv,  15).  See  Beth- 
aven. 

4.  )*  1 p 'E , shikku ts ' , “filth,”  “impurity,”  especially  ap- 
plied, like  the  cognate  j'jE'E,  she'kets,  to  that  which 
produced  ceremonial  uncleanness  (Ezek.  xxxvii,  23; 
Nali.  iii,  6),  such  as  food  offered  in  sacrifice  to  idols 
(Zech.  ix,  7 ; eomp.  Acts  xv,  20,  29).  As  referring  to 
the  idols  themselves,  it  primarily  denotes  the  obscene 
rites  with  which  their  worship  was  associated,  and 
hence,  by  metonymy,  is  applied  both  to  the  objects  of 
worship  and  also  to  their  worshippers,  who  partook  of 
the  impurity,  and  thus  “became  loathsome  like  tlieir 
love,”  the  foul  Baal-Pcor  (Hos.  ix,  10).  See  Abomina- 
tion. 

5.  In  the  same  connection  must  be  noticed,  though 
not  actually  rendered  “image”  or  “ idol,”  P'EE,  hu'sheth, 
“shame,”  or  “shameful  thing”  (A.Y.  Jer.  xi,  13;  IIos. 
ix,  10),  applied  to  Baal  or  Baal-Peor,  as  characterizing 
the  obscenity  of  his  worship.  See  Baal-peor. 

6.  eymah',  “ horror”  or  “ terror,”  and  hence  an 
object  of  horror  or  terror  (Jer.  1,  38),  in  reference  cither 
to  the  hideousness  of  the  idols  or  to  the  gross  character 
of  their  ■worship.  In  this  respect  it  is  closely  connected 
with — 

7.  miphle'tseth,  a “fright,”  “horror,”  applied 
to  the  idol  of  Maachah,  probably  of  wood,  which  Asa  cut 
down  and  burned  (1  Kings  xv,  13 ; 2 Chron.  xv,  16),  and 
which  was  unquestionably  the  Phallus,  the  symbol  of 

j the  productive  power  of  nature  (Movers,  Phan.  i,  571 ; 
Selden,  do  Bis  Syr.  ii,  5),  and  the  nature-goddess  Ashe- 
ra.  Allusion  is  supposed  to  be  made  to  this  in  Jer.  x, 
5,  and  Epist.  ot  Jer.  70.  In  2 Chron.  xv,  16  the  Yulg. 
render  “ simulacrum  Priapi”  (comp.  Horace,  “ furum  avi- 
nmque  maxima  fomiulo").  The  Sept,  had  a different 
reading,  -which  it  is  not  easy  to  determine.  They  trans- 
late, in  1 Kings  xv,  13,  the  same  word  both  by  ovvodog 
(with  which  corresponds  the  Syriac  'idd,  “ a festival,” 
reading,  perhaps,  ESiSE,  ’ atsereih , as  in  2 Kings  x,  20; 
Jer.  ix,  2)  and  Kciradvatic,  while  in  Chronicles  it  is 
tiSwXov.  Possibly  in  1 Kings  xv,  13  they  may  have 
read  nr^EE,  metsulluthdh,  for  miphlatstdh, 

as  the  Yulg.  specnm,  of  which  “ simulacrum  turpissi- 
mum"  is  a correction.  See  Grove. 

(II.)  We  now  eomc  to  the  consideration  of  those 
words  which  more  directly  apply  to  the  images  or  idols 
as  the  outward  symbols  of  the  deity  who  was  worship- 
ped through  them. 

(i.)  Terms  indicating  the  form  of  idols. — 8.  ?EE  or 
^EO,  se'mel , with  which  Gesenius  compares  as  cognate 
VrE,  mashdl,  and  eV^J,  tselem;  the  Lat.  similis  and  Gr. 
opaXug,  signifies  a “likeness,”  “semblance.”  The  Tar- 
gum  in  Deut.  iv,  16  gives  tsuru,  “figure,”  as  the 

equivalent,  while  in  Ezek.  viii,  3,  5 it  is  rendered  by 
E?4,  tselam,  “image.”  In  the  latter  passages  the  Syr- 
iac lias  koimtd,  “ a statue”  (the  otjjXj;  of  the  Septuagint), 
which  more  properly  corresponds  to  matstsebdh  (see  No. 
13, below);  and  in  Deut. genes,  “kind”  (=yivoc).  The 
passage  in  2 Chron.  xxxiii,  7 is  rendered  “images  of 
four  faces,”  the  latter  words  representing  the  one  under 
consideration.  In  2 Chron.  xxxiii,  15  it  appears  as 
“carved  images,”  following  the  Sept,  to  y\v--6v.  On 
the  whole,  the  Gr.  eiKtov  of  Deut.  iv,  16 ; 2 Chron.  xxxiii, 
7,  and  the  “ simulacrum”  of  the  Yulg.  (2  Chron.  xxxiii, 
15)  most  nearly  resemble  the  Ileb.  semel.  See  Carved. 

9.  tse'lem  (Chald.  id.  and  E^E,  tselam'),  is  by  all 
lexicographers,  ancient  and  modern,  connected  with 
tsel,  “ a shadow.”  It  is  the  “ image”  of  God  in  which 
man  was  created  (Gen.  i,  27 ; comp.  Wisd.  ii,  23),  distin- 


IDOL 


469 


IDOL 


guished  from  demuth,  or  “likeness,”  as  the  “im- 

age” from  the  “ idea”  which  it  represents  (Schmidt,  Be 
I mag.  Dei  in  Horn.  p.  84),  though  it  would  be  rash  to 
insist  upon  this  distinction.  In  the  N.  T.  them’  ap- 
pears to  represent  the  latter  (Col.  iii,  10;  compare  the 
Sept,  at  Gen.  v,  1),  as  bgoitofia  the  former  of  the  two 
words  (Rom.  i,  23;  viii,  29;  Phil,  ii,  7),  but  in  Heb.  x, 
1,  et kuh/  is  opposed  to  a via  as  the  substance  to  the  un- 
substantial form,  of  which  it  is  the  perfect  representa- 
tive. The  Sept,  render  demuth  by  o/ioiWic,  opoi'wpa, 
(tKtfiv,  o/.totog,  and  tselem  most  frequently  by  t’uaov, 
though  fido)\ov,  and  roirog  also  occur.  But, 

whatever  abstract  term  may  best  define  the  meaning  of 
tselem.,  it  is  unquestionably  used  to  denote  the  visible 
forms  of  external  objects,  and  is  applied  to  figures  of 
gold  and  silver  (1  Sam.  vi,  5 ; Numb,  xxxiii,  52 ; Dan. 

iii,  1),  such  as  the  golden  image  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  as 
well  as  to  those  painted  upon  walls  (Ezek.  xxxiii,  14). 
“ Image”  perhaps  most  nearly  represents  it  in  all  pas- 
sages. Applied  to  the  human  countenance  (Dan.  iii, 
19),  it  signifies  the  “ expression,"  and  corresponds  to  the 
i 'Ska  of  Matt,  xxviii,  3,  though  demuth  agrees  rather  with 
the  Platonic  usage  of.  the  latter  word.  See  Graven. 

10.  temundh',  rendered  “image”  in  Job  iv, 
16;  elsewhere  “similitude”  (Dent,  iv,  12),  “likeness” 
(Dent,  v,  8) : “ form,”  or  “ shape”  would  be  better.  In 
Dent,  iv,  16  it  is  in  parallelism  with  STPJlP,  tahnith', 
literally  “build;”  hence  “plan”  or  “model”  (2  Kings 
xvi,  10;  compare  Exod.  xx,  4;  Numb,  xii,  8). 

11.  XX2,  atsab',  2X2,  e’tseb  (Jer.  xxii,  28),  or  2X2, 
o'tseb  (Isa.  xlviii,  5),  “at  figure,”  all  derived  from  a root 
2X2,  atsab,  “to  work”  or  “ fashion”  (akin  to  2XH,  cha- 
tsab,  and  the  like),  are  terms  applied  to  idols  as  express- 
ing that  their  origin  was  due  to  the  labor  of  man.  The 
verb  in  its  derived  senses  indicates  the  sorrow  and 
trouble  consequent  upon  severe  labor,  but  the  latter 
seems  to  be  the  radical  idea.  If  the  notion  of  sorrow 
were  most  prominent,  the  words  as  applied  to  idols 
might  be  compared  with  dven  above.  Isa.  lviii,  3 is 
rendered  in  the  Peshito  Syriac  “idols”  (A.Y.  “labors”), 
but  the  reading  was  evidently  different.  In  Psa.  exxxix, 
24,  2X2  Tp}  is  “idolatry.” 

12.  “I^X,  tsir,  once  only  applied  to  an  idol  (Isa.  xlv, 
16;  Sept,  vqaot,  as  if  DpX,  iyini).  The  word  usually 
denotes  “ a pang,”  but  in  this  instance  is  probably  con- 
nected with  the  roots  “HX,  tsar,  and  “iX",  ydtsar,  and 
signifies  “ a shape”  or  “ mould,”  and  hence  an  “ idol.” 

13.  HE  EG,  matstsebdh',  anything  set  up,  a “statue” 

netsib,  Jer.  xliii,  13),  applied  to  a memorial 
stone  like  those  erected  by  Jacob  on  four  several  occa- 
sions (Gen.  xxviii,  18 ; xxxi,  45;  xxxv,  14,  20)  to  com- 
memorate a crisis  in  his  life,  or  to  mark  the  grave  of 
Rachel.  Such  were  the  stones  set  up  by  Joshua  (Josh. 

iv,  9)  after  the  passage  of  the  Jordan,  and  at  Shechem 
(xxiv,  26),  and  by  Samuel  when  victorious  over  the  Phi- 
listines (1  Sam.  vii,  12).  When  solemnly  dedicated  they 
were  anointed  with  oil,  and  libations  were  poured  upon 
them.  The  word  is  applied  to  denote  the  obelisks  which 
stood  at  the  entrance  to  the  temple  of  the  sun  at  Heli- 
opolis (Jer.  xliii,  13),  two  of  which  were  a hundred  cu- 
bits high  and  eight  broad,  each  of  a single  stone  (Herod. 

ii,  111).  It  is  also  used  of  the  statues  of  Baal  (2  Kings 

iii,  2),  whether  of  stone  (2  Kings  x,  27)  or  wood  (id.  26), 

which  stood  in  the  innermost  recess  of  the  temple  at 
Samaria.  Movers  (Phiin.  i,  674)  conjectures  that  the 
latter  were  statues  or  columns  distinct  from  that  of 
Baal,  which  was  of  stone  and  conical  (p.  673),  like  the 
“meta”  of  Paphos  (Tacit.  If.  ii,  3),  and  probably,  there- 
fore, belonging  to  other  deities,  who  were  his  irapeSpot 
or  The  Phoenicians  consecrated  and  anoint- 

ed stones  like  that  at  Bethel,  which  were  called,  as  some 
think,  from  this  circumstance,  Bcetylia.  Many  such 
are  said  to  have  been  seen  on  Mt.  Lebanon,  near  Heli- 
opolis, dedicated  to  various  gods,  and  many  prodigies 


are  related  of  them  (Damaseins  in  Photius,  quoted  by 
Bocliart,  Canaan,  ii,  2).  The  same  authority  describes 
them  as  aerolites,  of  a whitish  and  sometimes  purple 
color,  spherical  in  shape,  and  about  a span  in  diameter. 
The  Palladium  of  Troy,  the  black  stone  in  the  Ivaaba 
at  Mecca,  said  to  have  been  brought  from  heaven  by 
the  angel  Gabriel,  and  the  stone  at  Ephesus  “which 
fell  down  from  Jupiter”  (Acts  xix,  35),  are  examples  of 
the  belief,  anciently  so  common,  that  the  gods  sent  down 
their  images  upon  earth.  In  the  older  worship  of 
Greece,  stones,  according  to  Pausanias  (vii,  22,  § 4),  oc- 
cupied the  place  of  images.  Those  at  Pharte,  about 
thirty  in  number,  and  quadrangular  in  shape,  near  the 
statue  of  Hermes,  received  divine  honors  from  the  Pha- 
rians,  and  each  had  the  name  of  some  god  conferred 
upon  it.  The  stone  in  the  temple  of  Jupiter  Aramou 
(“umbilico  maxime  similis”),  enriched  with  emeralds 
and  gems  (Curtins,  iv,  7,  § 31);  that  at  Delphi,  which 
Saturn  was  said  to  have  swallowed  (Pausan.  Phoc.  24.  § 
6) ; the  black  stone  of  pyramidal  shape  in  the  temple 
of  Juggernaut,  and  the  holy  stone  at  Pessinus,  in  Gala- 
tia, sacred  to  Cvbele,  show  how  widely  spread  and  al- 
most universal  were  these  ancient  objects  of  -worship. 
See  Pillar. 

Closely  connected  with  these  “ statues”  of  Baal,  wheth- 
er in  the  form  of  obelisks  or  otherwise,  were 

14.  E*GEn,  chanimanim',  rendered  in  the  margin  of 
most  passages  “ siui-images.”  The  word  has  given  rise 
to  much  discussion.  In  the  Vulg.  it  is  translated  thrice 
simulacra,  thrice  delubra,  and  once  Jana.  The  Sept, 
gives  Ttfxevi]  twice,  t’iSuiXa  twice,  %vXti>a  %e«oo7to tgra, 
fiStXvyfMra,  and  rd  vxpijXa.  With  one  exception  (2 
Chron.  xxxiv,4,  which  is  evidently  corrupt),  the  Syriac 
has  vaguely  either  “fears,”  i.  c.  objeets  of  fear,  or 
“ idols.”  The  Targum  in  all  passages  translates  it  by 
chanisnesaya’,  “ houses  for  star-worship” 
(burst  compares  the  Arab.  Chunnas,  the  planet  Mercury 
or  Venus),  a rendering  which  Rosenmliller  supports. 
Gesenius  preferred  to  consider  these  chanisnesaya  as 
“ veils”  or  “ shrines  surrounded  or  shrouded  with  hang- 
ings” (Ezek.  xvi,  16;  Targ.  on  Isa.  iii,  19),  and  scouted 
the  interpretation  of  Buxtorf — “statute  solares” — as  a 
mere  guess,  though  he  somewhat  paradoxically  assent- 
ed to  Rosenmullcr’s  opinion  that  they  were  “shrines 
dedicated  to  the  worship  of  the  stars.”  Kimehi,  under 
the  root  *jGit,  mentions  a conjecture  that  they  were 
trees  like  the  Asherim,  but  (s.  v.  EGH)  elsewhere  ex- 
presses his  own  belief  that  the  Nun  is  epenthetic,  and 
that  they  were  so  called  “ because  the  sun-worshippers 
made  them.”  Aben-Ezra  (on  Lev.  xxvi,  30)  says  they 
were  “houses  made  for  worshipping  the  sun,”  which 
Bocliart  approves  ( Canaan , ii,  17),  and  Jarchi  that  they 
were  a kind  of  idol  placed  on  the  roofs  of  houses.  Vos- 
sius  (Be  Idol,  ii,  353),  as  Scaliger  before  him,  connects 
the  word  with  Amanus  or  Omanus,  the  sacred  fire,  the 
symbol  of  the  Persian  sun-god,  and  renders  it  ‘pyrcea 
(comp.  Selden,  ii,  8).  Adelung  ( Mitlirid . i,  159,  quoted 
by  Gesenius  on  Isa.  xvii,  8)  suggested  the  same,  and 
compared  it  with  the  Sanscrit  homa.  But  to  such  in- 
terpretations the  passage  in  2 Chron.  xxxiv,  4 is  inim- 
ical (Vitringa  on  Isa.  xvii,  8).  Gesenius’s  own  opinion 
appears  to  have  fluctuated  considerably.  In  his  notes 
on  Isaiah  (7.  c.)  he  prefers  the  general  rendering  “ col- 
umns” to  the  more  definite  one  of  “ sun-columns,”  and 
is  inclined  to  look  to  a Persian  origin  for  the  derivation 
of  the  word.  But  in  his  Thesaurus  he  mentions  the 
occurrence  of  Chamman  as  a synonym  of  Baal  in  the 
Phoenician  and  Palmyrene  inscriptions  in  the  sense  of 
“Dominus  Solaris,”  and  its  after  application  to  the  stat- 
ues or  columns  erected  for  his  worship.  Spencer  (Be 
Legg.  Hebr.  ii,  25),  and  after  him  Michaelis  ( Suppl . ad 
Lex.  Hebr.  s.  v.),  maintained  that  it  signified  statues  or 
lofty  columns,  like  the  pyramids  or  obelisks  of  Egypt. 
Movers  (Phon.  i,  441)  concludes  with  good  reason  that 
the  sun-god  Baal  and  the  idol  “ Chamman”  are  not  es- 
sentially different.  In  his  discussion  of  Chammanim  he 


IDOL 


470 


IDOL 


says,  “ These  images  of  the  fire-god  were  placed  on  for- 
eign or  non-Israelitish  altars,  in  conjunction  with  the 
symbols  of  the  nature-goddess  Aslierah,  or  crvpfiiopoi 
(2  Chron.  xiv,  3,  5 ; xxxiv,  4,  7 ; Isa.  xvii,  9 ; xxvii,  9), 
as  was  otherwise  usual  with  Baal  and  Asherah.”  They 
are  mentioned  with  the  Asherim,  and  the  latter  are 
coupled  with  the  statues  of  Baal  (1  Kings  xiv,  23 ; 2 
Kings  xxiii,  14).  The  chammanim  and  statues  are  used 
promiscuously  (compare  2 Kings  xxiii,  14,  and  2 Chron. 
xxxiv,  4 ; 2 Chron.  xiv,  3 and  5),  but  are  never  spoken 
of  together.  Such  are  the  steps  by  which  he  arrives  at 
his  conclusion.  lie  is  supported  by  the  Palmyrene  in- 
scription at  Oxford,  alluded  to  above,  which  has  been 
thus  rendered : “This  column  (X2 -H,  Chammana),  and 
this  altar,  the  sons  of  Malchu,  etc.,  have  erected  and 
dedicated  to  the  sun.”  The  Veneto- Greek  Version 
leaves  the  word  untranslated  in  the  strange  form  cuca- 
ftavreg.  From  the  expressions  in  Ezek.  vi,  4,  G,  and 
Lev.  xxvi,  30,  it  may  be  inferred  that  these  columns, 
which  perhaps  represented  a rising  flame  of  fire  and 
stood  upon  the  altar  of  Baal  (2  Chron.  xxxiv,  4),  were 
of  wood  or  stone.  See  Asheraii. 

15.  rh3?J12,  maskith',  occurs  in  Lev.  xxvi,  1 ; Numb, 
xxiii,  52 ; Ezek.  viii,  12  : “ device,”  most  nearly  suits  all 
passages  (compare  Psa.  •lxxiii,  7 ; Prov.  xviii,  11 ; xxv, 
11).  This  word  has  been  the  fruitful  cause  of  as  much 
dispute  as  the  preceding.  The  general  opinion  appears 
to  be  that  3 signifies  a stone  with  figures  graven 
upon  it.  Ben-Zeb  explains  it  as  “ a stone  with  figures 
or  hieroglyphics  carved  upon  it,”  and  so  Micliaelis;  and 
it  is  maintained  by  Movers  ( Phon . i,  105)  that  the  bce- 
tylia,  or  columns  with  painted  figures,  the  “ lapides  effi- 
giati”of  Minucius  Felix  (c.  3),  are  these  “stones  of  de- 
vice,” and  that  the  characters  engraven  on  them  are 
the  ifpd  orotyfio,  or  characters  sacred  to  the  several 
deities.  The  invention  of  these  characters,  which  is 
ascribed  to  Taaut,  he  conjectures  originated  with  the 
Seres.  Gesenius  explains  it  as  a stone  with  the  image 
of  an  idol,  Baal  or  Astarte,  and  refers  to  his  Mon.  Phan. 
p.  21-24,  for  others  of  a similar  character.  Kashi  (on 
Lev.  xxi,  1)  derives  it  from  the  root  “3'iT,  to  cover, 
“because  they  cover  the  floor  with  a pavement  of 
stones.”  The  Targum  and  Syriac,  Lev.  xxvi,  1,  give 
“stone  of  devotion,”  and  the  former,  in  Numb,  xxxiii, 
52,  has  “house  of  their  devotion”  where  the  Syriac  only 
renders  “ their  objects  of  devotion.”  For  the  former  the 
Sept,  has  \idog  ckottoq,  and  for  the  latter  rag  cKomag 
civtiov,  connecting  the  word  with  the  root  SH333.  “to 
look,”  a circumstance  which  has  induced  Saalscliiitz 
(J/os.  Bccht,  p.  382-385)  to  conjecture  that  then  mciskith 
was  originally  a smooth  elevated  stone  employed  for 
the  purpose  of  obtaining  from  it  a freer  prospect,  and 
of  offering  prayer  in  prostration  upon  it  to  the  deities 
of  heaven.  Hence,  generally,  he  concludes  it  signifies 
a stone  of  prayer  or  devotion,  and  the  “ chambers  of 
imagery”  of  Ezek.  viii,  7 are  “chambers  of  devotion.” 
The  renderings  of  the  last  mentioned  passage  in  the 
Sept,  and  Targum  are  curious  as  pointing  to  a various 
reading,  ‘733“,  or,  more  probably,  133*,33.  See 
Imagery. 

16.  teraphim \ See  Teraphim. 

(ii.)  The  terms  which  follow  have  regard  to  the  ma- 
terial and  workmanship  of  the  idol  rather  than  to  its 
character  as  an  object  of  worship. 

17.  b0S  , pe’sel , usually  translated  in  the  Authorized 
Version  “graven  or  carved  image.”  In  two  passages  it 
is  ambiguously  rendered  “quarries’'  (Judg.  iii,  19,26), 
after  the  Targum,  but  there  seems  to  be  no  reason  for 
departing  from  the  ordinary  signification.  In  the  ma- 
jority of  instances  the  Sept,  has  y\vi -top,  once  y\vppa. 
The  verb  is  employed  to  denote  the  finishing  which  the 
stone  received  at  the  hands  of  the  masons  after  it  had 
been  rough-hewn  from  the  quarries  (Exod.  xxxiv,  4 ; 
1 Kings  v,  32).  It  is  probably  a later  usage  which  has 


applied  pescl  to  a figure  cast  in  metal,  as  in  Isa.  xl,  19| 
xliv,  10.  (More  probably  still, pescl  denotes  by  anticipa- 
tion the  molten  image  in  a later  stage,  after  it  had  been 
trimmed  into  shape  by  the  caster.)  These  “ sculptured” 
images  were  apparently  of  wood,  iron,  or  stone,  covered 
with  gold  or  silver  (Dent,  vii,  25 ; Isa.  xxx,  22 ; llab.  ii, 
19),  the  more  costly  being  of  solid  metal  (Isa.  xl,  19). 
They  could  be  burned  (Dent,  vii,  5;  Isa.  xiv,  20;  2 
Chron.  xxxiv,  4),  or  cut  down  (Deut.  xii,  3)  and  pound- 
ed (2  Chron. xxxiv,  7),  or  broken  in  pieces  (Isa.  xxi,  9). 
In  making  them,  the  skill  of  the  wise  iron-smith  (Deut. 
xxvii,  15;  Isa.  xl,  20)  or  carpenter,  and  of  the  gold- 
smith, was  employed  (Judg.  xvii,  3,  4;  Isa.  xli,  7),  the 
former  supplying  the  rough  mass  of  iron  beaten  into 
shape  on  his  anvil  (Isa.  xliv,  12),  while  the  latter  over- 
laid it  with  plates  of  gold  and  silver,  probably  from 
Tarshish  (Jcr.  x,  9),  and  decorated  it  with  silver  chains. 
The  image  thus  formed  received  the  further  adornment 
of  embroidered  robes  (Ezek.  xvi,  18),  to  which  possibly 
allusion  may  be  made  in  Isa.  iii,  19.  Brass  and  clay 
were  among  the  materials  employed  for  the  same  pur- 
pose (Dan.  ii,  33;  v,  23).  (Images  of  glazed  pottery 
have  been  found  in  Egypt  [Wilkinson,  Anc.  Eg.  iii,  90; 
comp.Wisd.  xv,  8].)  A description  of  the  three  great 
images  of  Babylon  on  the  top  of  the  temple  of  Belus 
will  be  found  in  Diod.  Sic.  ii,  9 (compare  Layard,  A In.  ii, 
433).  The  several  stages  of  the  process  by  which  the 
metal  or  wood  became  the  “ graven  image”  are  so  viv- 
idly described  in  Isa.  xliv,  10-20,  that  it  is  only  neces- 
sary to  refer  to  that  passage,  and  we  are  at  once  intro- 
duced to  the  mysteries  of  idol  manufacture,  which,  as  at 
Ephesus,  “brought  no  small  gain  unto  the  craftsmen.” 
See  Shrine. 

18.  “33  or  “33,  ne'sek,  and  “333,  massekah are 
evidently'  synonymous  (Isa.  xli,  29 ; xlviii,  5 ; Jcr.  x.  14) 
in  later  Hebrew,  and  denote  a “ molten”  image.  Mas- 
sekah is  frequently  used  in  distinction  from  pescl  or  pe- 
silim  (Deut.  xxvii,  15 ; Judg.  xvii,  3,  etc.).  Tlie  golden 
calf  which  Aaron  made  was  fashioned  with  “ the  grav- 
er” (3jD)  cheref),  but  it  is  not  quite  clear  for  what  pur- 
pose the  graver  was  used  (Exod.  xxxii,  4).  The  chcret 
(comp.  xapc'iTTio)  appears  to  have  been  a sharp-pointed 
instrument,  used  like  the  stylus  for  a writing  implement 
(Isa.  viii,  1).  Whether  then  Aaron,  "by  the  help  of  the 
ckeret,  gave  to  the  molten  mass  the  shape  of  a calf,  or 
whether  he  made  use  of  the  graver  for  the  purpose  of 
carving  hieroglyphics  upon  it,  has  been  thought  doubt- 
ful. The  Syr.  has  tupsu  (rvirog'),  “ the  mould,”  for  cho- 
rd. But  the  expression  3 12 *7,  vay-yatsar,  decides  that 
it  was  by  the  cheret,  in  whatever  manner  employed, 
that  the  shape  of  a calf  was  given  to  the  metal.  See 
Moltex. 

(iii.)  In  the  New  Test,  the  Greek  of  idol  is  f/£w\oi', 
which  exactly  corresponds  with  it.  In  one  passage 
tinwv  is  the  “image”  or  head  of  the  emperor  on  the 
coinage  (Matt,  xxii,  20).  See  also  Alisgema. 

II.  Actual  Forms  of  Idols. — Among  the  earliest  ob- 
jects of  worship,  regarded  as  symbols  of  deity,  were  the 
meteoric  stones  which  the  ancients  believed  to  have 
been  the  images  of  the  gods  sent  down  from  heaven. 
See  Diana.  From  these  they  transferred  their  regard 
to  rough  unhewn  blocks,  to  stone  columns  or  pillars  of 
wood,  in  which  the  divinity  worshipped  was  supposed 
to  dwell,  and  which  were  consecrated,  like  the  sacred 
stone  at  Delphi,  by  being  anointed  with  oil,  and  crowned 
with  wool  on  solemn  days  (Pausan.  Phoc.  24,  § 6).  Ta- 
vernier (quoted  by  Rosenmiiller.A//.  and  K.  Jlorgenland, 
i,  § 89)  mentions  a black  stone  in  the  pagoda  of  Benares 
which  was  daily  anointed  with  perfumed  oil,  and  such 
are  the  “ Lingams”  in  daily  use  in  the  Siva  worship  of 
India  (compare  Amobius,  i,  30  ; Min.  Felix,  c.  3).  Such 
customs  are  remarkable  illustrations  of  the  solemn  con- 
secration by  Jacob  of  the  stone  at  Bethel,  as  showing 
the  religious  reverence  with  which  these  memorials 
were  regarded.  Not  only  were  single  stones  thus  hon- 
ored, but  heaps  of  stone  were,  in  later  times  at  least* 


IDOL 


471 


IDOLATRY 


considered  as  sacred  to  Hermes  (Homer,  Od.  xvi,  471 ; ' 
comp,  the  Vulg.  at  Prov.  xxvi,  8,  *•  Sicut  qui  mittit  lapi- 
dem  in  accrvuui  Mercnrii”),  and  to  these  each  passing 
traveller  contributed  liis  offering  (Creuzer,  Si/ mb.  i,  24). 
The  heap  of  stones  which  Laban  erected  to  commemo- 
rate the  solemn  compact  between  himself  and  Jacob, 
and  on  which  he  invoked  the  gods  of  his  fathers,  is  an 
instance  of  the  intermediate  stage  in  which  such  heaps 
were  associated  with  religious  observances  before  they 
became  objects  of  worship.  Jacob,  for  his  part,  dedi- 
cated a single  stone  as  his  memorial,  and  called  Jehovah 
to  witness,  thus  holding  himself  aloof  from  the  rites  em- 
ployed by  Laban,  which  may  have  partaken  of  his  an- 
cestral idolatry.  See  Jegar-Sahadutiia. 

Of  the  forms  assumed  by  the  idolatrous  images  we 
have  not  many  traces  in  the  Bible.  Dagon,  the  fish-god 
of  the  Philistines,  was  a human' figure  terminating  in  a 
fish  [see  Dagon];  and  that  the  Syrian  deities  were 
represented  in  later  times  in  a symbolical  human  shape 
we  know  for  certainty.  See  also  Nisitocn.  The  He- 
brews imitated  their  neighbors  in  this  respect  as  in  oth- 
ers (Isa.  xliv,  13 ; Wisd.  xiii,  13),  and  from  various  allu- 
sions we  may  infer  that  idols  in  human  forms  were  not 
uncommon  among  them,  though  they  were  more  an- 
ciently symbolized  by  animals  (Wisd.  xiii,  14),  as  by  the 
calves  of  Aaron  and  Jeroboam,  and  the  brazen  serpent 
which  was  afterwards  applied  to  idolatrous  uses  (2  Kings 
xviii,  4;  Rom.  i,  23).  When  the  image  came  from  the 
hands  of  the  maker  it  was  decorated  richly  with  silver 
and  gold,  and  sometimes  crowned  (Epist.  Jer.  9),  clad  in 
robes  of  blue  and  purple  (Jer.  x,  9),  like  the  draped  im- 
ages of  Pallas  and  Hera  (M  uller,  Hand.  d.A  rch.  d.  Kiuist, 

§ G9),  and  fastened  in  the  niche  appropriated  to  it  by 
means  of  chains  and  nails  (Wisd.  xiii,  15),  in  order  that 
the  influence  of  the  deity  which  it  represented  might  be 
secured  to  the  spot.  So  the  Ephesians,  when  besieged 
by  Croesus,  connected  the  wall  of  their  city  by  means  of 
a rope  to  the  temple  of  Aphrodite,  with  a view  to  in- 
suring the  aid  of  the  goddess  (Herod,  i,  26) ; and  for  a 
similar  object  the  Tyrians  chained  the  stone  image  of 
Apollo  to  the  altar  of  Hercules  (Curt,  iv,  3,  § 15).  Some 
images  were  painted  red  (Wisd.  xiii,  14),  like  those  of 
Dionysus  and  the  Bacchantes,  of  Hermes,  and  the  god 
ran  (Pausan.  ii,  2,  § 5 ; M idler,  Hand.  d.  .4  rcli.  d.  Kunst,  i 
§G9).  This  color  was  formerly  considered  sacred.  Pliny 
relates,  on  the  authority  of  Verrius,  that  it  was  custom- 
ary on  festival  days  to  eolor  with  red-lead  the  face  of  j 
the  image  of  Jupiter,  and  the  bodies  of  those  who  cele- 
brated a triumph  (xxxiii,  3G).  The  figures  of  Priapus, 
the  god  of  gardens,  were  decorated  in  the  same  manner 
(“  ruber  custos,”  Tibull.  i,  1, 18).  Among  the  objects  of  i 
worship  enumerated  bvArnobius  (i,  39)  are  bones  of  el- 
ephants, pictures,  and  garlands  suspended  on  trees,  the  ! 
“rami  coronati”  of  Apuleins  (de  Mag.  c.  5G). 

When  the  process  of  adorning  the  image  was  com- 
pleted, it  was  placed  in  a temple  or  shrine  appointed  for 
it  ( otKia , Epist.  Jer.  12, 19 ; oiicyya,  Wisd.  xiii,  15 ; tiviv- 
Xt7or,  1 Cor.  viii,  10;  see  Stanley's  note  on  the  latter 
passage).  In  Wisd.  xiii,  15,  oucr/ya  is  thought  to  be 
used  contemptuously,  as  in  Tibull.  i,  10,  19,  20,  “Cum 
paupere  cultu  Stabat  in  exigua  ligneus  cede  deus” 
(Fritsche  and  Grimm,  Handb.),  but  the  passage  quoted 
is  by  no  means  a good  illustration.  From  these  temples 
the  idols  were  sometimes  carried  in  procession  (Epist. 
Jer.  4,  26)  on  festival  days.  Their  priests  were  main- 
tained from  the  idol  treasury,  and  feasted  upon  tbe  i 
meats  which  were  appointed  for  the  idols'  use  (Bel  and  j 
the  Dragon,  3,  13).  These  sacrificial  feasts  formed  an  5 
important  part  of  the  idolatrous  ritual,  and  were  a great  | 
stumbling-block  to  the  early  Christian  converts.  They 
were  to  the  heathen,  as  Prof.  Stanley  has  well  observed, 
what  the  observance  of  circumcision  and  the  Mosaic 
ritual  were  to  the  Jewish  converts,  and  it  was  for  this 
reason  that  Paul  especially  directed  his  attention  to  the 
subject,  and  laid  down  the  rules  of  conduct  contained  in 
his  first  letter  to  the  Corinthians  (viii-x). — Smith; 
Kit  to.  See  Idolatry. 


Idolatry  is  divine  honor  paid  to  any  created  object. 
It  is  thus  a wider  term  than  image-worship  (q.  v.).  For 
many  old  monographs  on  the  various  forms  of  ancient 
idolatry,  sec  Volbeding,  Index  Programmutnm , p.  108  sq. 
See  Gons,  False;  Beast-worship. 

We  find  the  idea  of  idolatry  expressed  in  the  O.  T.  by 
3TS  (a  lie , Psa.  xlv,  5;  Amos  ii,  4),  or  XVj  (nullity), 
and  still  oftener  by  ( abomination ).  In  after 

times  the  Jews  designated  it  as  n>"i  iri!|23>  ( foreign 
worship).  Thus  we  see  that  it  had  no  name  indicative 
of  its  nature,  for  the  Biblical  expressions  are  more  a 
monotheistic  qualification  of  divine  worship  than  a def- 
inition of  it;  the  last  Hebrew  expression,  however, 
shows  idolatry  as  not  being  of  Jewish  origin.  The 
word  tiewXoXarptia  in  the  N.  T.  is  entirely  due  to  the 
Septuagint,  which,  wherever  any  of  the  heathen  deities 
are  mentioned,  even  though  designated  in  the  sacred 
text  only  as  C'P'PX  (nothings),  translates  by  dicuXov, 
an  idol ; a practice  generally  followed  by  later  versions. 
A special  sort  of  idolatry,  namely,  the  actual  adoration 
of  images  ( Idololatria ) thus  gave  name  to  the  whole 
species  (1  Cor.  x,  14;  Gal.  v,  20;  1 Pet.  iv,  3).  Subse- 
quently the  more  comprehensive  word  tidoXarptia  (idol- 
atria,  instead  of  idololatria)  was  adopted,  which  included 
the  adoration  and  worship  of.other  visible  symbols  of  the 
deity  (tiSot;)  besides  those  due  to  the  statuary  art.— 
Herzog. 

I.  Origin  of  Idolatry. — In  the  primaeval  period  man 
appears  to  have  had  not  alone  a revelation,  but  also  an 
implanted  natural  law.  Adam  and  some  of  his  descend- 
ants, as  late  as  the  time  of  the  Flood,  certainly  lived 
under  a revealed  system,  now  usually  spoken  of  as  the 
patriarchal  dispensation,  and  Paid  tells  ns  that  the  na- 
tions were  under  a natural  law  (Rom.  ii,  14, 15).  “ ‘Man 
in  his  natural  state  must  always  have  had  a knowledge 
of  God  sufficient  for  the  condition  in  which  he  had  been 
placed.  Although  God  ‘in  times  past  suffered  all  na- 
tions [or,  rather,  ‘all  the  Gentiles,’  tt dvra  ra  iturf]  to 
walk  in  their  own  ways,  nevertheless  he  left  not  him- 
self without  witness,  in  that  he  did  good,  and  gave  us 
rain  from  heaven,  and  fruitful  seasons,  filling  our  hearts 
with  food  and  gladness’  (Acts  xiv,  17).  ‘For  the  invis- 
ible things  of  him,  from  the  creation  of  the  world,  are 
clearly  seen,  being  understood  by  the  things  that  are 
made,  [even]  his  eternal  power  and  godhead’  (Rom.  i, 
20).  But  the  people  of  whom  we  are  speaking  ‘ changed 
the  glory  of  the  incorruptible  God  into  an  image  made 
like  to  corruptible  man,  and  to  birds,  and  four-footed 
beasts,  and  creeping  things,’  ‘ and  worshipped  and  served 
the  creature  more  than  the  Creator,  who  is  blessed  for- 
eArer’  (Rom.  i,  21-25).  Thus  arose  that  strange  super- 
stition which  is  known  by  the  term  Fetishism  [or  low 
nature-worship],  consisting  in  the  worship  of  animals, 
trees,  rivers,  hills,  and  stoues”  (Poole,  Genesis  of  the 
Eurth  and  of  Man,  2d  ed.  p.  1G0,  IG1).  Paul  speaks  of 
those  who  invented  this  idolatry  as  therefore  forsaken 
of  God  and  suffered  to  sink  into  the  deepest  moral  cor- 
ruption (Rom.  i,  28).  It  is  remarkable  that  among 
highly-civilized  nations  the  converse  obtains;  moral 
corruption  being  very  frequently  the  cause  of  the  aban- 
doning of  true  religion  for  infidelity.  — Kitto.  That 
theory  of  human  progress  which  supposes  man  to  have 
gradually  worked  his  way  up  from  barbaric  ignorance 
of  God  to  a so-called  natural  religion  is  contradicted  by 
the  facts  of  Biblical  history'. 

Nothing  is  distinctly  stated  in  the  Bible  as  to  any 
antediluvian  idolatry.  It  is,  however,  a reasonable  sup- 
position that  in  the  general  corruption  before  the  Flood 
idolatry  was  practised.  There  is  no  undoubted  trace  of 
heathen  divinities  in  the  names  of  the  antediluvians; 
but  there  are  dim  indications  of  ancestral  worship  in 
the  postdiluvian  worship  of  some  of  the  antediluvian 
patriarchs.  It  has  been  supposed  that  the  set  or  sct- 
ekh  of  the  Egyptian  Pantheon  is  the  Hebrew  Seth. 
The  Cainite  Enoch  was  possibly  commemorated  as  An- 
naeus or  N aimac us  at  Iconium,  though,  this  name  being 


IDOLATRY 


472 


IDOLATRY 


identified  with  Enoch,  the  reference  may  be  to  Enoch 
of  the  line  of  Seth.  It  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  the 
worship  of  these  antediluvians  originated  before  the 
Flood,  for  it  is  unlikely  that  it  would  have  been  insti- 
tuted after  it.  Some  Jewish  writers,  grounding  their 
theory  on  a forced  interpretation  of  Gen.  iv,  26,  assign 
to  Enos,  the  son  of  Seth,  the  unenviable  notoriety  of 
having  been  the  tirst  to  pay  divine  honors  to  the  host 
of  heaven,  and  to  lead  others  into  the  like  error  (Mai- 
mon,  Be  Idol,  i,  1).  R.  Solomon  Jarchi,  on  the  other 
hand,  while  admitting  the  same  verse  to  contain  the 
first  account  of  the  origin  of  idolatry,  understands  it  as 
implying  the  deification  of  men  and  plants.  Arabic 
tradition,  according  to  Sir  W.  Jones,  connects  the  people 
of  Yemen  with  the  same  apostasy.  The  third  in  de- 
scent from  Joktan,  and  therefore  a contemporary  of  Xa- 
hor,  took  the  surname  of  A bdu  Shams,  or  “ servant  of 
the  sun,”  whom  he  and  his  family  worshipped,  while 
other  tribes  honored  the  planets  and  fixed  stars  (Hales, 
Chronol.  ii,  59, 4to  ed.).  Ximrod,  again,  to  whom  is  as- 
cribed the  introduction  of  Zabianism,  was  after  his  deatli 
transferred  to  the  constellation  Orion,  and  on  the  slen- 
der foundation  of  the  expression  “ Ur  of  the  Chaldees” 
(Gen.  xi,  31)  is  built  the  fabulous  history  of  Abraham 
and  Ximrod,  narrated  in  the  legends  of  the  Jews  and 
Mussulmans  (Jellinek,  Bet  ha-Midrash,  i,  23 ; Weil,  Bibl. 
Leg.  p.  47-7 4 ; Hyde,  Bel.  Pers.  c.  2). — Smith. 

II.  Classification  of  Idolatry. — All  mimixed  systems 
of  idolatry  may  be  classified  under  the  following  heads; 
all  mixed  systems  may  be  resolved  into  two  or  more  of 
them.  We  give  in  this  connection  general  illustrations 
of  these  species  of  false  worship  as  evinced  by  the  na- 
tions associated  with  the  Jewish  people,  reserving  for 
the  next  head  a more  complete  survey  of  the  idolatrous 
systems  of  the  most  important  of  these  nations  sepa- 
rately. 

1.  Low  nature-worship,  or  fetishism,  the  worship  of 
animals,  trees,  rivers,  hills,  and  stones.  The  fetishism 
of  the  negroes  is  thought  to  admit  of  a belief  in  a su- 
preme intelligence : if  this  be  true,  such  a belief  is  either 
a relic  of  a higher  religion,  or  else  is  derived  from  the 
Muslim  tribes  of  Africa.  Fetishism  is  closely  connected 
with  magic,  and  the  Xigritian  priests  are  universally 
magicians. 

Beast-worship  was  exemplified  in  the  calves  of  Jero- 
boam and  the  dark  hints  which  seem  to  point  to  the 
goat  of  Mendes.  There  is  no  actual  proof  that  the  Is- 
raelites ever  joined  in  the  service  of  Dagon,  the  fish-god 
of  the  Philistines,  though  Aliaziah  sent  stealthily  to 
Baalzebub,  the  fly-god  of  Ekron  (2  Kings  i).  Some  have 
explained  the  allusion  in  Zepli.  i,  9 as  referring  to  a prac- 
tice connected  with  the  worship  of  Dagon ; comp.  1 Sam. 
v,  5.  The  Syrians  are  stated  by  Xenophon  (A  nab.  i, 
4,  § 9)  to  have  paid  divine  honors  to  fish.  In  later 
times  the  brazen  serpent  became  the  object  of  idolatrous 
homage  (2  Kings  xviii,  4).  But  whether  the  latter  was 
regarded  with  superstitions  reverence  as  a memorial  of 
their  early  history,  or  whether  incense  was  offered  to  it 
as  a symbol  of  some  power  of  nature,  cannot  now  be  ex- 
actly determined.  The  threatening  in  Lev.  xxvi,  30, 
“ I will  put  your  carcasses  upon  the  carcasses  of  yonr 
idols,”  may  fairly  he  considered  as  directed  against  the 
tendency  to  regard  animals,  as  in  Egypt,  as  the  sym- 
bols of  deity.  Tradition  says  that  Xergal,  the  god  of 
the  men  of  Cnth,  the  idol  of  fire  according  to  Leusdcn 
(Phil.  Ilebr.  Mixt.  diss.  43),  was  worshipped  under  the 
form  of  a cock ; Ashima  as  a lie-goat,  the  emblem  of 
generative  power;  Nibhaz  as  a dog;  Adrammelcch  as  a 
mule  or  peacock ; and  Anammelech  as  a horse  or  pheas- 
ant. 

The  singular  reverence  with  which  trees  have  in  all 
ages  been  honored  is  not  without  example  in  the  histo- 
ry of  the  Hebrews.  The  terebinth  at  Mamre,  beneath 
which  Abraham  built  an  altar  (Gen.  xii,  7 ; xiii,  18), 
and  the  memoiial  grove  planted  by  him  at  Beersheba 
(Gen.  xxi,  33),  were  intimately  connected  with  patri- 
archal worship  though  in  after  ages  his  descendants 


were  forbidden  to  do  that  which  he  did  with  impunity, 
in  order  to  avoid  the  contamination  of  idolatry.  .Jerome 
(Onomasticon,  s.  v.  Drys)  mentions  an  oak  near  Hebron 
which  existed  in  his  infancy,  and  was  the  traditional 
tree  beneath  which  Abraham  dwelt.  It  was  regarded 
with  great  reverence,  and  was  made  an  object  of  wor- 
ship by  the  heathen.  Modem  Palestine  abounds  with 
sacred  trees.  They  are  found  “ all  over  the  land  cover- 
ed with  bits  of  rags  from  the  garments  of  passing  vil- 
lagers, hung  up  as  acknowledgments,  or  as  deprecatory 
signals  and  charms;  and  we  find  beautiful  clumps  of 
oak-trees  sacred  to  a kind  of  beings  called  Jacob’s 
daughters”  (Thomson,  The  Land  and  the  Booh,  ii,  151). 
See  Gkove.  As  a symptom  of  the  rapidly  degener- 
ating spirit,  the  oak  of  Shechem,  which  stood  in  the 
sanctuary  of  Jehovah  (Josh,  xxiv,  2G),  and  beneath 
which  Joshua  set  up  the  stone  of  witness,  perhaps  ap- 
pears in  Jndges  (ix,  37)  as  “the  oak  (not  ‘plain,’  as  in 
the  A.  V.)  of  soothsayers”  or  “ augurs.”  This,  indeed, 
may  be  a relic  of  the  ancient  Canaanitish  worship ; an 
older  name  associated  with  idolatry,  which  the  conquer- 
ing Hebrews  were  commanded  and  endeavored  to  oblit- 
erate (Dent,  xii,  3). 

2.  Shamanism,  or  the  magical  side  of  fetishism,  the 
religion  of  the  Mongolian  tribes,  and  apparently  the 
primitive  religion  of  China. 

3.  High  nature-worship,  the  worship  of  the  sun,  moon, 
and  stars,  and  of  the  supposed  powers  of  nature.  The 
old  religion  of  the  Shemitic  races  consisted,  in  the  opin- 
ion of  Movers  (Phon.  i,  c.  5),  in  the  deification  of  the 
powers  and  laws  of  nature;  these  powers  being  consid- 
ered either  as  distinct  and  independent,  or  as  manifes- 
tations of  one  supreme  and  all-ruling  being.  In  most 
instances  the  two  ideas  were  co-existent.  The  deity, 
following  human  analogy,  was  conceived  as  male  and 
female : the  one  representing  the  active,  the  other  the 
passive  principle  of  nature;  the  former  the  source  of 
spiritual,  the  latter  of  physical  life.  The  transference 
of  the  attributes  of  the  one  to  the  other  resulted  either 
in  their  mystical  conjunction  in  the  hermaphrodite,  as 
the  Persian  Mithra  and  Phoenician  Baal,  or  the  two 
combined  to  form  a third,  which  symbolized  the  essen- 
tial unity  of  both.  (This  will  explain  the  occurrence 
of  the  name  of  Baal  with  the  masculine  and  feminine 
articles  in  the  Sept. ; comp.  Hos.  xi,  2 ; Jcr.  xix,  5 ; Bom. 
xi,  4.  Philochorus,  quoted  by  Macrobins  [Sat.  iii,  8], 
says  that  men  and  women  sacrificed  to  Venus  or  the 
Moon,  with  the  garments  of  the  sexes  interchanged,  be- 
cause she  was  regarded  both  as  masculine  and  feminine 
[sec  Selden,  Be  Bis  Syr.  ii,  2].  Hence  Lunus  and  Lu- 
na.) With  these  two  supreme  beings  all  other  beings 
are  identical ; so  that  in  different  nations  the  same  na- 
ture-worship appears  under  different  forms,  representing 
the  various  aspects  under  which  the  idea  of  the  power 
of  nature  is  presented.  The  sun  and  moon  were  early 
selected  as  outward  symbols  of  this  all-pervading  power, 
and  the  worship  of  the  heavenly  bodies  was  not  only 
the  most  ancient,  but  the  most  prevalent  system  of  idol- 
atry. Taking  its  rise,  according  to  a probable  hypoth- 
esis, in  the  plains  of  Chaldaaa,  it  spread  through  Egypt, 
Greece,  Scythia,  and  even  Mexico  and  Ceylon;  and  it 
is  worthy  of  notice  that  even  the  religion  of  remote 
India  presupposes  a grand  symbolic  representation  of 
the  divine  by  the  worship  of  these  great  physical  pow- 
ers (compare  Lassen,  Ind.  Alterth.  i,  756  sq. ; Both,  Ce- 
schichte  der  Religionen).  See  Hinduism.  It  was  re- 
garded as  an  offence  amenable  to  the  civil  authorities  in 
the  days  of  Job  (xxxi,  26-28),  and  one  of  the  statutes 
of  the  Mosaic  law  was  directed  against  its  observance 
(Deut.  iv,  19 ; xvii,  3) ; the  former  referring  to  the  star- 
worshij)  of  Arabia,  the  latter  to  the  concrete  form  in 
which  it  appeared  among  the  Syrians  and  Phoenicians. 
It  is  probable  that  the  Israelites  learned  their  first  les- 
sons in  sun-worship  from  the  Egyptians,  in  whose  relig- 
ious system  that  luminary,  as  Osiris,  held  a prominent 
place.  The  city  of  On  (Bethshemesh  or  Heliopolis) 
took  its  name  from  his  temple  (Jer.  xliii,  13),  and  the 


IDOLATRY 


473 


IDOLATRY 


wife  of  Joseph  was  the  daughter  of  his  priest  (Gen.  xli, 
45).  The  Phoenicians  worshipped  him  under  the  title 
of  “ Lord  of  heaven,”  ✓S’S,  Baal-shamayim  (fie- 

e\<j(tfi)]v,  aec.  to  Sanclioniatho  in  Philo  Byblius),  and 
Adon,  the  Greek  Adonis,  and  the  Tammnz  of  Ezekiel 
(viii,  14).  See  Tammuz.  As  Molech  or  Mileom,  the 
sun  was  worshipped  by  the  Ammonites,  and  as  Chemosli 
by  the  Moabites.  The  Iladad  of  the  Syrians  is  the 
same  deity,  whose  name  is  traceable  in  Bcnhadad,  1-1  a- 
dadezer,  ami  Iladad  or  Adad,  the  Edomite.  The  As- 
syrian Bel  or  Belus  is  another  form  of  Baal.  According 
to  Philo  (De  Vit.  Cont.  § 3),  the  Essenes  were  wont  to 
pray  to  the  sun  at  morning  and  evening  (Joseph.  War, 
ii,  8,  5).  By  the  later  kings  of  Judah,  sacred  horses 
and  chariots  were  dedicated  to  the  snn-god,  as  by  the 
Persians  (2  Kings  xxiii,  1 1 ; Boehart,  Ilieroz.  pt.  i,  bk. 
ii,  c.  xi ; Selden,  De  Dis  Syr.  ii,  8),  to  march  in  proces- 
sion and  greet  his  rising  (R.  Solomon  Jarehi  on  2 Kings 
xxiii,  1 1).  The  Massage  tie  offered  horses  in  sacrifice  to 
him  (Strabo,  xi,  p.  513),  on  the  principle  enunciated  by 
Maerobius  (Sat.  vii,  7),  “like  rejoieeth  in  like”  (“simil- 
ibus  similia  gaudent ;”  compare  Herod,  i,  216),  and  the 
custom  was  common  to  many  nations. 

The  moon,  worshipped  by  the  Phoenicians  under  the 
name  of  Astarte  (Lucian,  de  Dea  Syra,  c.  4),  or  Baaltis, 
the  passive  power  of  nature,  as  Baal  was  the  active 
(M overs,  i,  149),  and  known  to  the  Hebrews  as  Ashta- 
roth  or  Ashtoreth,  the  tutelary  goddess  of  the  Zido- 
nians,  appears  early  among  the  objects  of  Israelitish 
idolatry.  But  this  Syro-Phoenician  worship  of  the  sun 
and  moon  was  of  a grosser  character  than  the  pure  star- 
worship  of  the  Magi,  whieh  Movers  distinguishes  as 
Upper  Asiatic  or  Assyro-Persian,  and  was  equally  re- 
moved from  the  Chahkean  astrology  and  Zabianism  of 
later  times.  The  former  of  these  systems  tolerated  no 
images  or  altars,  and  the  contemplation  of  the  heavenly 
bodies  from  elevated  spots  constituted  the  greater  part 
of  its  ritual. 

But,  though  we  have  no  positive  historical  aeeount 
of  star-worsh ip  before  the  Assyrian  period,  we  may  infer 
that  it  was  early  practiced  in  a concrete  form  among  the 
Israelites  from  the  allusions  in  Amos  v,  26,  and  Acts  vii, 
42, 43.  Even  in  the  desert  they  are  said  to  have  been 
given  up  to  worship  the  host  of  heaven,  while  Chiun 
and  Remphan,  or  Rephan,  have  on  various  grounds  been 
identified  with  the  planet  Saturn.  It  was  to  counteract 
idolatry  of  this  nature  that  the  stringent  law  of  Dent, 
xvii,  3 was  enacted,  and  with  a view  to  withdrawing 
the  Israelites  from  undue  contemplation  of  the  material 
universe,  Jehovah,  the  God  of  Israel,  is  constantly  placed 
before  them  as  Jehovah  Sabaoth,  Jehovah  of  Hosts,  the 
king  of  heaven  (Dan.  iv,  35,  37),  to  whom  the  heaven 
and  heaven  of  heavens  belong  (Dent,  x,  14).  However 
this  may  be,  Movers  ( Phon . i,  65,  66)  contends  that  the 
later  star-worship,  introduced  by  Ahaz  and  followed  by 
Manasseh,  was  purer  and  more  spiritual  in  its  nature 
than  the  Israelito-Phoenieian  worship  of  the  heavenly 
bodies  under  symbolical  forms,  as  Baal  and  Asherah; 
and  that  it  was  not  idolatry  in  the  same  sense  that  the 
latter  was,  but  of  a simply  contemplative  character.  He 
is  supported,  to  some  extent,  by  the  faet  that  we  find  no 
mention  of  any  images  of  the  sun  or  moon  or  the  host 
of  heaven,  but  merely  of  vessels  devoted  to  their  sendee 
(2  Kings  xxiii,  4).  But  there  is  no  reason  to  believe 
that  the  divine  honors  paid  to  the  “Queen  of  Heaven” 
(Jer.  vii,  18;  xlix,  19;  or,  as  others  render,  “the  frame” 
or  “structure  of  the  heavens”)  were  equally  dissociated 
from  image-worship.  Mr.Lavard  (A7«.ii,451)  discovered 
a bas-relief  at  Ximroud  whieh  represented  four  idols  car- 
ried in  procession  by  Assyrian  warriors.  One  of  these 
figures  he  identifies  with  Hera,  the  Assyrian  Astarte, 
represented  with  a star  on  her  head  (Amos  v,  26),  and 
with  the  “ queen  of  heaven,”  who  appears  on  the  rock- 
tablets  of  Pterium  “standing  erect  on  a lion,  and 
crowned  with  a tower,  or  mural  coronet,”  as  in  the  Syr- 
ian temple  of  Hierapolis  (ib.  p.456 ; 'Lucian,  de  Dea  Syra, 
31, 32),  But,  in  his  remarks  upon  a figure  which  resem- 


bles the  Rhea  of  Diodorus,  Layard  adds,  “ The  represen- 
tation in  a human  form  of  the  celestial  bodies,  them- 
selves originally  but  a type,  was  a corruption  which  ap- 
pears to  have  crept  at  a later  period  into  the  mythology 
of  Assyria ; for,  in  the  more  ancient  bas-reliefs,  figures 
with  caps  surmounted  by  stars  do  not  occur,  and  the 
sun,  moon,  and  planets  stand  alone”  (ib.  p.457,458). 

The  allusions  in  Job  xxxviii,31,32  are  too  obscure  to 
allow  any  inference  to  be  drawn  as  to  the  mysterious  in- 
fluences which  were  held  by  the  old  astrologers  to  be 
exercised  by  the  stars  over  human  destiny,  nor  is  there 
sufiieient  evidence  to  connect  them  with  anything  more 
recondite  than  the  astronomical  knowledge  of  the  pe- 
riod. The  same  may  be  said  of  the  poetical  figure  in 
Deborah’s  chant  of  triumph,  “the  stars  from  their  high- 
ways warred  with  Sisera”  (Jiulg.  v,  20).  In  the  later 
times  of  the  monarchy,  Mazzaloth,  the  planets,  or  the 
zodiacal  signs,  received,  next  to  the  sun  and  moon,  their 
share  of  popular  adoration  (2  Kings  xxiii,  5) ; and  the 
history  of  idolatry  among  the  Hebrews  shows  at  all 
times  an  intimate  connection  between  the  deification  of 
the  heavenly  bodies  and  the  superstition  which  watched 
the  clouds  for  signs,  and  used  divination  and  enchant- 
ments. It  was  but  a step  from  such  eulture  of  the  side- 
real powers  to  the  worship  of  Gad  and  Meni,  Babylonian 
divinities,  symbols  of  Venus  or  the  moon,  as  the  goddess 
of  luck  or  fortune.  Under  the  latter  aspect  the  moon 
was  reverenced  by  the  Egyptians  (Maerob.  Sat.  i,  19) ; 
and  the  name  Baal-Gad  is  possibly  an  example  of  the 
manner  in  which  the  worship  of  the  planet  Jupiter,  as 
the  bringer  of  luck,  was  grafted  on  the  old  faith  of  the 
Phoenicians.  The  false  gods  of  the  colonists  of  Sama- 
ria were  probably  connected  with  Eastern  astrology: 
Adrammeleeh  Movers  regards  as  the  sun-fire — the  solar 
Mars,  and  Anammeleeh  the  solar  Saturn  (Phan,  i,  410, 
411).  The  Vulg.  rendering  of.Prov.  xxvi, 8,  “ Sicut  qui 
mittit  lapidem  in  acervnm  Mercurii,"  follows  the  Mid- 
rash on  the  passage  quoted  by  Jarehi,  and  requires 
merely  a passing  notice  (see  Selden,  de  Dis  Syris,  ii,  15; 
Maim,  de  Idol,  iii,  2 ; Buxtorf,  Lex.Talm.  s.  v.  E"~'p“,2). 

4.  Hero-worship,  the  worship  of  deceased  ancestors 
or  leaders  of  a nation.  Of  pure  hero-worship  among 
the  Shemitic  races  we  find  no  trace.  Moses,  indeed, 
seems  to  have  entertained  some  dim  apprehension  that 
his  countrymen  might,  after  his  death,  pay  him  more 
honors  than  were  due  to  man,  and  the  anticipation  of 
this  led  him  to  review  his  own  conduct  in  terms  of 
strong  reprobation  (Dent,  iv,  21,  22).  The  expression 
in  Psa.  evi,  28,  “ The  sacrifices  of  the  dead,"  is  in  all  prob- 
ability metaphorical,  and  Wisd.  xiv,  15  refers  to  a later 
practice  due  to  Greek  infl uenee.  The  Rabbinical  com- 
mentators discover  in  Gen.  xlviii,  16  an  allusion  to  the 
worshipping  of  angels  (Col.  ii,  18),  while  they  defend 
their  ancestors  from  the  charge  of  regarding  them  in 
any  other  light  than  mediators,  or  intercessors  with  God 
(Lewis,  Or iy.  Ilebr.  v,  3).  It  is  needless  to  add  that 
their  inference  and  apology  are  equally  groundless. 
With  like  probability  has  been  advanced  the  theory  of 
the  da;mon-worship  of  the  Hebrews,  the  only  founda- 
tion for  it  being  two  highly  poetical  passages  (Deut. 
xxxii,  17 ; Psa.  evi,  37).  It  is  possible  that  the  Persian 
dualism  is  hinted  at  in  Isa.  xlv,  7. 

5.  Idealism , the  worship  of  abstractions  or  mental 
qualities,  such  as  justice,  a system  never  found  unmixed. 
— Kitto;  Smith.  This  constituted  the  mythology  of 
the  Greeks  and  Romans,  as  also  of  the  Scandinavians. 
See  Mythology. 

III.  Idolatry  of  certain  ancient  Heathen  Nations  in 
Detail. — All  idolatry  is  in  its  nature  heathenish,  and  it 
has  in  all  ages  been  a characteristic  mark  of  heathen- 
dom, so  that  to  the  present  day  the  vivid  description  of 
Rom.  i remains  the  most  striking  portraiture  of  heathen 
peoples.  We  have  space  in  this  article  for  a systematic 
view  only  of  those  early  nations  whose  contact  with  the 
Hebrew  race  was  the  means  of  the  importation  of  idola- 
try among  the  chosen  people.  See  Polytheism. 

1.  Mesopotamian  Mythology. — The  original  idolatrous 


IDOLATRY 


IDOLATRY  4: 

condition  of  the  kindred  of  Abraham  (q.  v.)  himself  in  j 
the  great  plain  of  Aram  is  distinctly  alluded  to  in  Judg. 
xxiv,  2.  According  to  Eawlinson  (Essay  in  his  Ilerod.), 
the  Pantheons  of  Babylon  and  Nineveh,  though  origin- 
ally dissimilar  in  the  names  of  the  divinities,  cannot  as 
yet  be  treated  separately.  The  principal  god  of  the 
Assyrians  was  Assliur,  replaced  in  Babylonia  by  a god 
whose  name  is  read  II  or  Ea.  The  special  attributes  of 
Asshm-  were  sovereignty  and  power,  and  he  was  regard- 
ed as  the  especial  patron  of  the  Assyrians  and  their 
kings.  It  is  the  Shemitic  equivalent  of  the  Hamitic  or 
Hcythic  Ea,  which  suggests  a connection  with  Egypt, 
although  it  is  to  be  noticed  that  the  same  root  may 
perhaps  be  traced  in  the  probably  Canaanitish  Heres. 
Next  to  Assliur  or  II  was  a triad,  consisting  of  Anu, 
who  appears  to  have  corresponded  to  Pluto,  a divinity 
whose  name  is  doubtful,  corresponding  to  Jupiter,  and 
Hea  or  Iloa,  corresponding  in  position  and  partly  in 
character  to  Neptune.  The  supreme  goddess  Midi t a or 
Bilta  (Mylitta  or  Beltis)  was  the  wife  of  the  Babylonian 
Jupiter.  This  triad  was  followed  by  another,  consisting 
of  Aither  (Iva?),  the  sun,  and  the  moon.  Next  in  or- 
der are  “ the  five  minor  gods,  who,  if  not  of  astronomical 
origin,  were  at  any  rate  identified  with  the  five  planets 
of  the  Chaldiean  system.”  In  addition,  Sir  II.  Eawlin- 
son  enumerates  several  other  divinities  of  less  impor- 
tance, and  mentions  that  there  are  “ a vast  number  of 
other  names,”  adding  this  remarkable  observation : 
“ Every  town  and  village,  indeed,  throughout  Babylo- 
nia and  Assyria  appears  to  have  had  its  own  particular 
deity,  many  of  these  no  doubt  being  the  great  gods  of 
the  Pantheon  disguised  under  rustic  names,  but  others 
being  distinct  local  divinities.”  Sir  H.  Eawlinson  con- 
tents himself  with  stating  the  facts  discoverable  from 
the  inscriptions,  and  does  not  theorize  upon  the  subject 
further  than  to  point  out  the  strong  resemblances  be- 
tween this  Oriental  system  and  that  of  Greece  and 
Eome,  not  indeed  in  the  Aryan  ground-work  of  the  lat- 
ter, but  in  its  general  superstructure.  If  we  analyze  the 
Babylonian  and  Assyrian  system,  we  discover  that  in  its 
present  form  it  is  mainly  cosmic,  or  a system  of  high 
nature-worship.  The  supreme  divinity  appears  to  have 
been  regarded  as  the  ruler  of  the  universe,  the  first  triad 
was  of  powers  of  nature,  the  second  triad  and  the  re- 
maining chief  divinities  were  distinctly  cosmic.  But 
beneath  this  system  were  two  others,  evidently  distinct 
in  origin,  and  too  deep-seated  to  be  obliterated,  the  wor- 
ship of  ancestors  and  low  nature-worship.  Assliur,  at 
the  very  head  of  the  Pantheon,  is  the  deified  ancestor 
of  the  Assyrian  race;  and,  notwithstanding  a system  of 
great  gods,  each  city  had  its  own  special  idolatry,  either 
openly  reverencing  its  primitive  idol,  or  concealing  a 
deviation  from  the  fixed  belief  by  making  that  idol  an- 
other form  of  one  of  the  national  divinities.  In  this 
separation  into  its  first  elements  of  this  ancient  religion, 
we  discover  the  superstitions  of  those  races  which,  mix- 
ed, but  never  completely  fused,  formed  the  population 
of  Babylonia  and  Assyria,  three  races  whose  three  lan- 
guages were  yet  distinct  in  the  inscribed  records  as  late 
as  the  time  of  Darius  Hystaspis.  These  races  were  the 
primitive  Clialdieans,  called  Ilamites  by  Sir  H.  Eawlin- 
son, who  undoubtedly  had  strong  affinities  with  the  an- 
cient Egyptians,  the  Shemitic  Assyrians,  and  the  Aryan 
Persians.  It  is  not  difficult  to  assign  to  these  races 
their  respective  shares  in  the  composition  of  the  my- 
thology of  the  countries  in  which  they  successively 
ruled.  The  ancestral  worship  is  here  distinctly  She- 
mitic : the  name  of  Assliur  proves  this.  It  may  be  ob- 
jected that  such  worship  never  characterized  any  other 
Shemitic  stock ; that  we  find  it  among  T uranians  and 
Aryans:  but  we  reply  that  the  Shemites borrowed  tlicir 
idolatry,  and  a Turanian  or  Aryan  influence  may  have 
given  it  this  peculiar  form.  The  low  nature-worship 
must  be  due  to  the  Turanians.  It  is  never  discerned 
except  where  there  is  a strong  Turanian  or  Nigritian 
element,  and  when  once  established  it  seems  always  to 
have  been  very  hard  to  remove.  The  high  nature- 


4 

worship,  as  the  last  element,  remains  for  the  Aryan  race. 
The  primitive  Aryan  belief  in  its  different  forms  was  a 
reverence  for  the  sun,  moon,  and  stars,  and  the  powers 
of  nature,  combined  with  a belief  in  one  supreme  being, 
a religion  which,  though  varying  at  different  times,  and 
deeply  influenced  by  ethnic  causes,  was  never  deprived 
of  its  essentially  cosmic  characteristics.  See  Assyria. 

2.  Egyptian. — The  strongest  and  most  remarkable  pe- 
culiarity of  the  Egyptian  religion  is  the  worship  of  ani- 
mals (see  Zickler,  lie  religions  bestiarum  ab  JEgypiiis 
consecratarum,  Lips.  1745;  Schumacker,  lie  cullu  ani- 
malium  inter  sEgyplios  et  Judceos,  Wolfcnb.  1773),  trees, 
and  like  objects,  which  was  universal  in  the  country, 
and  was  even  connected  with  the  belief  in  the  future 
state.  No  theory  of  the  usefulness  of  certain  animals 
can  explain  the  worship  of  others  that  were  utterly  use- 
less, nor  can  a theory  of  some  strange  anomaly  find  even 
as  wide  an  application.  The  explanation  is  to  be  dis- 
covered in  every  town,  every  village,  every  hut  of  the 
negroes,  whose  fetishism  corresponds  perfectly  with  this 
low  nature-worship  of  the  ancient  Egyptians. 

Connected  with  fetishism  was  the  local  character  of 
the  religion.  Each  nome,  city,  town,  and  probably  vil- 
lage, had  its  divinities,  and  the  position  of  many  gods  in 
the  Pantheon  was  due  rather  to  the  importance  of  their 
cities  than  any  powers  or  qualities  they  were  supposed 
to  have.  For  a detailed  account  of  the  Egyptian  deities, 
with  illustrative  cuts,  see  Kitto’s  Pictorial  Bible , note  on 
Dent,  iv,  16;  compare  also  Egypt. 

The  Egyptian  rantlicon  shows  three  distinct  ele- 
ments. Certain  of  the  gods  are  only  personifications 
connected  with  low  nature-worship.  Others,  the  great 
gods,  are  of  Shemitic  origin,  and  are  connected  with  high 
nature-worship,  though  showing  traces  of  the  worship 
of  ancestors.  In  addition,  there  are  certain  personifica- 
tions of  abstract  ideas.  The  first  of  these  classes  is  evi- 
dently the  result  of  an  attempt  to  connect  the  old  low 
nature-worship  with  some  higher  system.  The  second 
is  no  doubt  the  religion  of  the  Shemitic  settlers.  It  is 
essentially  the  same  in  character  as  the  Babylonian  and 
Assyrian  religion,  and,  as  the  belief  of  a dominant  race, 
took  the  most  important  place  in  the  intricate  system 
of  which  it  ultimately  formed  a part.  The  last  class 
appears  to  be  of  later  invention,  and  to  have  had  its 
origin  hi  an  endeavor  to  construct  a philosophical  sys- 
tem. 

In  addition  to  these  particulars  of  the  Egyptian  re- 
ligion, it  is  important  to  notice  that  it  comprised  very 
remarkable  doctrines.  Man  was  held  to  be  a responsi- 
ble being,  whose  future  after  death  depended  upon  his 
actions  done  while  on  earth,  lie  was  to  be  judged  by 
Osiris,  rider  of  the  West,  or  unseen  world,  and  either  re- 
warded with  felicity  or  punished  with  torment.  Wheth- 
er these  future  states  of  happiness  and  misery  were  held 
to  be  of  eternal  duration  is  not  certain,  but  there  is  little 
doubt  that  the  Egyptians  believed  in  the  immortality 
of  the  soul. 

The  religion  of  the  Shepherds,  or  Hyksos,  is  not  so 
distinctly  known  to  us.  It  is,  however,  clear  from  the 
monuments  that  their  chief  god  was  set,  or  sutekh, 
and  we  learn  from  a papyrus  that  one  of  the  Shep- 
herd-kings, ArEPi,  probably  Manetho’s  “Apopliis,"  es- 
tablished the  worship  of  set  in  his  dominions,  and  rev- 
erenced no  other  god,  raising  a great  temple  to  him 
in  Zoan,  or  Avaris.  Set  continued  to  be  worshipped 
by  the  Egyptians  until  the  time  of  the  22d  dynasty, 
when  we  lose  all  trace  of  him  on  the  monuments.  At 
this  period,  or  afterwards,  his  figure  was  effaced  in  the 
inscriptions.  The  change  took  place  long  after  the  ex- 
pulsion of  the  Shepherds,  and  was  effected  by  the  22d 
dynasty,  which  was  probably  of  Assyrian  or  Babylonian 
origin ; it  is,  therefore,  rather  to  be  considered  as  a re- 
sult of  the  influence  of  the  Median  doctrine  of  Ormuzd 
and  Ahriman  than  as  due  to  the  Egyptian  hatred  of  the 
foreigners  and  all  that  concerned  them.  Besides  set, 
other  foreign  divinities  were  worshipped  in  Egypt — the 
god  kexpu,  the  goddesses  hex,  or  ketesh,  axta,  and 


IDOLATRY 


475 


IDOLATRY 


astarta.  All  these  divinities,  except  astarta,  as  to 
whom  we  have  no  particular  information,  are  treated  by 
the  Egyptians  as  powers  of  destruction  and  war,  as  set 
was  considered  the  personification  of  physical  evil.  Set 
was  always  identified  by  the  Egyptians  with  Baal ; wc 
do  not  know  whether  lie  was  worshipped  in  Egypt  be- 
fore the  Shepherd-period,  but  it  is  probable  that  he  was. 

This  foreign  worship  in  Egypt  was  probably  never 
reduced  to  a system.  What  we  know  of  it  shows  no 
regularity,  and  it  is  not  unlike  the  imitations  of  the 
Egyptian  idols  made  by  Phoenician  artists,  probably  as 
representations  of  Phoenician  divinities.  The  gods  of 
the  Hyksos  are  foreign  objects  of  worship  in  an  Egyp- 
tian dress.  See  Hyksos. 

3.  Idolatry  of  Canaan  and  the  adjoining  Countries. — 
The  centre  of  the  idolatry  of  the  Palestinian  races  is  to 
be  sought  for  in  the  religion  of  the  liephaites  and  the 
Canaanites.  Wc  can  distinctly  connect  the  worship  of 
Baal  and  Ashtoreth  with  the  earliest  kind  of  idolatry; 
and,  having  thus  established  a centre,  we  can  understand 
how,  for  instance,  the  same  infernal  rites  were  celebrated 
to  the  Ammonitisli  Molech  and  the  Carthaginian  Baal. 
The  most  important  document  for  the  idolatry  of  the 
Hittites  is  the  treaty  concluded  between  the  branch  of 
that  people  seated  on  the  Orontes  and  Rameses  II.  From 
this  we  learn  that  suteku  (or  set)  and  astorat  were 
the  chief  divinities  of  these  Hittites,  and  that  they  also 
worshipped  the  mountains  and  rivers  and  the  winds. 
The  sutekiis  of  several  forts  are  also  specified.  See 
Hittites.  Set  is  known  from  the  Egyptian  inscrip- 
tions to  have  corresponded  to  Baal,  so  that  in  the  two 
chief  divinities  we  discover  Baal  and  Ashtoreth,  the 
only  Canaanitish  divinities  known  to  be  mentioned  in 
Scripture.  The  local  worship  of  different  forms  of  Baal 
well  agrees  with  the  low  nature-worship  with  which  it 
is  found  to  have  prevailed.  Both  are  equally  mentioned 
in  the  Bible  history.  Thus  the  people  of  Shechem  wor- 
shipped Baal-berith,  and  Mount  Hermon  itself  seems  to 
have  been  worshipped  as  Baal-Hermon,  while  the  low 
nature-worship  may  be  traced  in  the  reverence  for 
groves,  and  the  connection  of  the  Canaanitish  religion 
with  hills  and  trees.  The  worst  feature  of  this  system 
was  the  sacrifice  of  children  by  their  parents — a feature 
that  shows  the  origin  of  at  least  two  of  its  offshoots. 

The  Bible  does  not  give  a very  clear  description  of  Ca- 
naanitish idolatry.  As  an  abominable  thing,  to  be  root- 
ed out  and  cast  into  oblivion,  nothing  is  needlessly  said 
of  it.  The  appellation  Baal,  ruler,  or  possessor,  implies 
supremacy,  and  connects  the  chief  Canaanitish  divinity 
with  the  Syrian  Adonis.  I le  was  the  god  of  the  Canaan- 
itish city  Zidon,  or  Sidon,  where  “Ashtoreth,  the  abom- 
ination of  the  Zidonians,”  was  also  specially  Avorshipped. 
In  the  Judge-period  Ave  read  of  Baalim  and  Asliteroth  in 
the  plural,  probably  indicating  A’arious  local  forms  of 
these  divinities,  but  perhaps  merely  the  Avorship  of 
many  images.  The  Avorship  of  Baal  Avas  connected 
Avith  that  of  the  groves,  Avhich  Ave  take  to  have  been 
representations  of  trees  or  other  v-egetable  products. 
See  High  Place.  In  Ahab’s  time  a temple  Avas  built 
for  Baal,  Avhere  there  Avas  an  image.  His  worshippers 
sacrificed  in  garments  provided  by  the  priests;  and  his 
prophets,  seeking  to  propitiate  him,  Avere  wont  to  cry 
and  cut  themseh'es  Avith  SAvords  and  lances.  Respecting 
Ashtoreth  Ave  know  less  from  Scripture.  Her  name  is 
not  derivcable  from  any  Shemitic  root.  It  is  equivalent 
to  the  Ishtar  of  the  cuneiform  inscriptions,  the  name  of 
the  Assyrian  or  Babylonian  Venus,  the  goddess  of  the 
planet.  The  identity  of  the  Canaanitish  and  the  Assyr- 
ian or  Babylonian  goddess  is  further  shown  by  the  con- 
nection of  the  former  Avith  star-Avorship.  In  the  Iranian 
languages  Ave  find  a close  radical  resemblance  to  Ashto- 
reth and  Ishtar  in  the  Persian,  Zend  stara,  Sansk.  stra, 
d(TT>)p,  stern , all  equivalent  to  our  “star.”  This  dcriva- 
tion  confirms  our  opinion  that  the  high  nature-worship 
of  the  Babylonians  and  Assyrians  Avas  of  Aryan  origin. 
As  no  other  Canaanitish  divinities  are  noticed  in  Scrip- 
ture, it  seems  probable  that  Baal  and  Ashtoreth  Averc 


alone  worshipped  by  the  nations  of  Canaan.  Among 
the  neighboring  tribes  AA'e  find,  besides  these,  other 
names  of  idols,  and  avc  have  to  inquire  Avhether  they 
apply  to  ditferent  idols  or  are  merely  different  appella- 
tions. 

Beginning  Avith  the  Abrahamitic  tribes,  we  find  Mo- 
lech, Maleham,  or  Milcom  (q^?  3)  spoken 

of  as  the  idol  of  the  Ammonites.  This  name,  in  the  first 
form,  always  has  the  article,  and  undoubtedly  signifies 
the  king  (q:?52n,  equivalent  to  for  it  is  indiffer- 

ently used  as  a proper  name  and  as  an  appellative  with 
a suffix  (comp.  Jer.  xlix,  1,3,  with  Amos  i,  15).  Milcom 
is  from  Molech  or  its  root,  Avith  D formative,  and  Mal- 
cham  is  probably  a dialectic  \rariation,  if  the  points  are 
to  be  relied  upon.  Molech  Avas  regarded  by  the  Am- 
monites as  their  king.  When  David  captured  Kabbah, 
Ave  are  told  that  “ he  took  Malchani’s  crown  from  off  his 
head,  the  weight  Avhereof  [Avas]  a talent  of  gold  Avith 
the  precious  stones:  and  it  Avas  [set]  on  David’s  head” 
(2  Sam.  xii,  30;  comp.  1 Chron.  xx,  2).  The  prophets 
speak  of  this  idol  as  ruler  of  the  children  of  Ammon,  and 
doomed  to  go  into  captivity  with  his  priests  and  princes 
(Jer.  xlix,  1,3;  Amos  i,  16).  The  Avorship  of  Molech  Avas 
performed  at  high  places,  and  children  Avere  sacrificed 
to  him  by  their  parents,  being  cast  into  fires.  This  hor- 
rible practice  prevailed  at  Carthage,  Avhere  children  Avere 
sacrified  to  their  chief  divinity,  Baal,  called  at  Tyre 
“Mclcarth,  lord  (Baal)  of  Tyre”  “i2  bl'l  J’Hpb'S  (Inscr. 
Melit.  Biling.  ap.  Gesen.  Lex.  s.x.  the  first  of  Avhich 
words  signifies  king  of  the  city,  for  ”2  2.  Th  ere  can 

therefore  be  no  doubt  that  Molech  Avas  a local  form  of 
the  chief  idol  of  Canaan,  and  it  is  by  no  means  certain 
that  this  name  was  limited  to  the  Ammonitish  AA'orship, 
as  Ave  shall  see  in  speaking  of  the  idolatry  of  the  Israel- 
ites in  the  Desert. 

We  knoAv  for  certain  of  but  one  Moabitish  divinity,  as 
of  but  one  Ammonitish.  Cliemosh  appears  to  have  held 
the  same  place  as  Molech,  although  our  information  re- 
specting him  is  less  f.:ll.  Moab  AA'as  the  “people  of 
Cliemosh”  (Numb,  xxi,  29 ; Jer.  xlviii,  40),  and  Chemosh 
Avas  doomed  to  captivity  Avith  his  priests  and  princes 
(Jer.  xlviii,  7).  In  one  place  Chemosh  is  spoken  of  as 
the  god  of  the  king  of  the  children  of  Amnion,  Avhom 
Jephthah  conquered  (Judg.  xi,  24) ; but  it  is  to  be  re- 
marked that  the  cities  held  by  this  king,  Avhich  Jeph- 
thah took,  AArerc  not  originally  Ammonitish,  and  Avere 
apparently  claimed  as  once  held  by  the  Moabites  (21- 
20 ; comp.  Numb,  xxi,  28-30),  so  that  at  this  time  Moab 
and  Ammon  Avere  probably  united,  or  the  Ammonites 
ruled  by  a Moabitish  chief.  The  etymology  of  Che- 
mosh is  doubtful,  but  it  is  clear  that  he  Avas  distinct 
from  Molech.  There  is  no  posith’e  trace  of  the  cruel 
rites  of  the  idol  of  the  Ammonites,  and  it  is  unlikely 
that  the  settled  Moabites  should  haA-e  had  the  same 
savage  disposition  as  their  Avikl  brethren  on  the  north. 
There  is,  hoAveA’er,  a general  resemblance  in  the  regal 
character  assigned  to  both  idols  and  their  solitary  posi- 
tion. Chemosh,  therefore,  like  Molech,  AA*as  probably  a 
form  of  Baal.  Both  tribes  appear  to  lm-e  had  other 
idols,  for  AA’e  read  of  the  Avorship,  by  the  Israelites,  of 
“ the  gods  of  Moab,  and  the  gods  of  the  children  of  Am- 
mon” (Judg.  x,  0) ; but,  as  there  are  other  plurals  in  the 
passage,  it  is  possible  that  this  may  be  a general  expres- 
sion. Yet,  in  saying  this,  AA’e  do  not  mean  to  suggest  that 
there  AA'as  any  monotheistic  form  of  Canaanitish  idola- 
try. There  is  sfme  difficulty  in  ascertaining  Avhether 
Baal-Peor,  or  Peor,  Avas  a Moabitish  idol.  The  Israelites, 
Avhile  encamped  at  Shittim,  Avere  seduced  by  the  Avomcn 
of  Moab  and  Midian,  and  joined  them  in  the  AA’orship  of 
Baal-Peor.  There  is  no  notice  of  any  later  instance  of 
this  idolatry.  It  seems,  therefore,  not  to  hav’e  been  na- 
tional to  Moab,  and,  if  so,  it  may  have  been  borroAA-ed,  and 
Midianitish,  or  else  local,  and  Canaanitish.  The  former 
idea  is  supported  by  the  apparent  connection  of  prosti- 
tution, even  of  Avomen  of  rank,  Avith  the  Avorship  of 


IDOLATRY  476  IDOLATRY 


Baal-Peor,  which  would  not  have  been  repugnant  to  the 
pagan  Arabs ; the  latter  finds  some  support  in  the  name 
Shittim,  the  acacias,  as  though  the  place  had  its  name 
from  some  acacias  sacred  to  Baal,  and,  moreover,  we 
have  no  certain  instance  of  the  application  of  the  name 
of  Baal  to  any  non-Canaanitisli  divinity.  Had  such  vile 
worship  as  was  probably  that  of  Baal-Peor  been  national 
in  Moab,  it  is  most  unlikely  that  David  would  have 
been  on  very  friendly  terms  with  a Moabitish  king. 

The  Philistine  idolatry  is  connected  with  that  of  Ca- 
naan, although  it  has  peculiarities  of  its  own,  which  are 
indeed  so  strong  that  it  may  be  questioned  whether  it 
is  entirely  or  even  mainly  derived  from  the  Canaanitisli 
source.  At  Ekron,  Baal-zebul)  was  worshipped,  and 
had  a temple,  to  which  Ahaziah,  the  wicked  son  of 
Ahab,  sent  to  inquire.  This  name  means  either  the  lord 
of  the  fiy , or  Baal  the  fin . It  is  generally  held  that  he 
was  worshipped  as  a driver-away  of  flies,  but  we  think 
it  more  probable  that  some  venomous  fly  was  sacred  to 
him.  The  use  of  the  term  Baal  is  indicative  of  a con- 
nection with  the  Canaanitish  system.  The  national  di- 
vinity of  the  Philistines  seems,  however,  to  have  been 
Dagon,  to  whom  there  were  temples  at  Gaza  and  at 
Ashdod,  and  the  general  character  of  whose  worship  is 
evident  in  such  traces  as  we  observe  in  the  names  Ca- 
phar-Dagon,  near  Jamnia,  and  Beth-Dagon,  the  latter 
applied  to  two  places,  one  in  Judah  and  the  other  in 
Asher.  The  derivation  of  the  name  Dagon,  “plfl,  as 
that  of  a fish-god,  is  from  a fish.  Gesenius  considers 
it  a diminutive,  “ little  fish,”  used  by  way  of  endearment 
and  honor  ( Thes . s.  v.),  but  this  is  surely  hazardous.  Da- 
gon was  represented  as  a man  with  the  tail  of  a fish. 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  he  was  connected  with  the 
Canaanitish  system,  as  Derceto  or  Atargatis,  the  same  as 
Aslitoreth,  was  worshipped  under  a like  mixed  shape  at 
Ashkelon  (avri]  de  to  piv  Trpoaonrov  fya  yvvaucoQ,  to 
d’  d\\o  (Tujpa  Trap  i yfluoc,  Diod.  Sic.  ii,4).  In  form  he 
is  the  same  as  the  Assyrian  god  supposed  to  correspond 
to  the  planet  Saturn.  The  house  of  Dagon  at  Gaza, 
which  Samson  overthrew,  must  have  been  very  large, 
for  about  8000  men  and  women  then  assembled  on  its 
roof.  It  had  two  principal,  if  not  only,  pillars  in  the 
midst,  between  which  Samson  was  placed  and  was  seen 
by  the  people  on  the  roof.  The  inner  portion  of  some 
of  the  ancient  Egyptian  temples  consisted  of  a hypa> 
tliral  hall,  supported  by  two  or  more  pillars,  and  inner 
chambers.  The  overthrow  of  these  pillars  would  bring 
down  the  stone  roof  of  the  hall,  and  destroy  all  persons 
beneath  or  upon  it,  without  necessarily  overthrowing 
the  side-walls. 

The  idolatry  of  the  Phoenicians  is  not  spoken  of  in  the 
Bible.  From  their  inscriptions  and  the  statements  of 
profane  authors  we  learn  that  this  nation  worshipped 
Baal  and  Ashtoretli.  The  details  of  their  worship  will 
be  spoken  of  in  the  article  Phoenicia, 

Syrian  idols  are  mentioned  in  a few  places  in  Scrip- 
ture. Tammuz,  whom  the  women  of  Israel  lamented,  is 
no  doubt  Adonis,  whose  worship  implies  that  of  Astarte 
or  Ashtoreth.  Rimmon,  who  appears  to  have  been  the 
chief  divinity  of  the  Syrian  kings  ruling  at  Damascus, 
may,  if  his  name  signifies  high  (from  fc'2“'),  be  a local 
form  of  Baal,  who,  as  the  sun-god,  had  a temple  at  the 
great  Syrian  city  Heliopolis,  now  called  Baalbek. 

The  book  of  Job,  which,  whatever  its  date,  represents 
a primitive  state  of  society,  speaks  of  cosmic  worship  as 
though  it  was  practiced  in  his  country,  Idumaea  or  north- 
ern Arabia.  “ If  I beheld  a sun  when  it  shined,  or  a 
splendid  moon  progressing,  and  my  heart  were  secretly 
enticed,  and  my  hand  touched  my  mouth,  surely  this 
[were]  a depravity  of  judgment,  for  I should  have  de- 
nied God  above”  (xxxi,  26-28).  See  Poole,  Genesis  of 
the  Earth  and  of  Man , 2d  ed.  p.  184.  This  evidence  is 
important  in  connection  with  that  of  the  ancient  preva- 
lence of  cosmic  worship  in  Arabia,  and  that  of  its  prac- 
tice by  some  of  the  later  kings  of  Judah. — Kitto. 

4.  Much  indirect  evidence  on  this  subject  might  be 


supplied  by  an  investigation  of  proper  names.  Mr. 
Layard  has  remarked,  “According  to  a custom  existing 
from  time  immemorial  in  the  East,  the  name  of  the  su- 
preme deity  was  introduced  into  the  names  of  men. 
This  custom  prevailed  from  the  banks  of  the  Tigris  to 
the  Phoenician  colonies  beyond  the  Pillars  of  Hercules; 
and  we  recognise  in  the  Sardanapalus  of  the  Assyrians, 
and  the  Hannibal  of  the  Carthaginians,  the  identity  of 
the  religious  system  of  the  two  nations,  as  widely  dis- 
tinct in  the  time  of  their  existence  as  in  their  geograph- 
ical position”  (Nineveh,  ii,  450).  The  hint  which  he  has 
given  ean  be  but  briefly  followed  out  here.  Traces  of 
the  sun-worship  of  the  ancient  Canaanites  remain  in  the 
nomenclature  of  their  country.  Beth-Shemesli,  “ house 
of  the  sun;”  En-Shemesh,  “spring  of  the  sun,”  and  Ir- 
Shemesh,  “ city  of  the  sun,”  whether  they  be  the  orig- 
inal Canaanitish  names  or  their  Hebrew  renderings,  at- 
test the  reverence  paid  to  the  source  of  light  and  heat, 
the  symbol  of  the  fertilizing  power  of  nature.  Samson, 
the  Hebrew  national  hero,  took  his  name  from  the  same 
luminary,  and  was  born  in  a mountain  village  above  the 
modern  ’Ain  Shems  (En-Shemesh  : Thomson,  The  Land 
and  the  Booh,  ii,  361).  The  name  of  Baal,  the  sun-god, 
is  one  of  the  most  common  occurrence  in  compound 
words,  and  is  often  associated  with  places  consecrated  to 
his  worship,  and  of  which,  perhaps,  he  was  the  tutelary 
deity.  Bamotli-Baal,  “ the  high  places  of  Baal ;”  Baal- 
Ilermon,  Beth-Baal-Meon,  Baal-Gad,  Baal-Ilamon,  in 
which  the  compound  names  of  the  sun-god  of  Phoenicia 
and  Egypt  are  associated,  Baal-Tamar,  and  many  oth- 
ers, are  instances  of  this.  [That  temples  in  Syria,  ded- 
icated to  the  several  divinities,  did  transfer  their  names 
to  the  places  where  they  stood,  is  evident  from  the  tes- 
timony of  Lucian,  an  Assyrian  himself.  Ilis  derivation 
of  Iliera  from  the  temple  of  the  Assyrian  Hera  shows 
that  he  was  familiar  with  the  circumstance  (Be  Dea 
Syr.  c.  i).  Baisampsa  ( = Bethshemesh),  a town  of 
Arabia,  derived  its  name  from  the  sun-worship  (Vossi- 
us,  Be  Theol.  Gent,  ii,  c.  8),  like  Kir-Heres  (Jer.  xlviii, 
31)  of  Moab.]  Nor  was  the  jiraetice  confined  to  the 
names  of  places:  proper  names  are  found  with  the  same 
element.  Esh-baal,  Isli-baal,  etc.,  are  examples.  The 
Amorites,  whom  Joshua  did  not  drive  out,  dwelt  on 
Mount  Ileres,  in  Aijalon,  “the  mountain  of  the  sun.” 
See  Timnath-IIeres.  Here  and  there  we  find  traces 
of  the  attempt  made  by  the  Hebrews,  on  their  conquest 
of  the  country,  to  extirpate  idolatry.  Thus  Baalah  or 
Kirjath-Baal,  “ the  town  of  Baal,”  became  Kirjath-Jea- 
rim,  “ the  town  of  forests”  (Josh,  xv,  60).  The  Moon, 
Astarte  or  Ashtaroth,  gave  her  name  to  a city  of  Ba- 
shan  (Josh,  xiii,  12,  31),  and  it  is  not  improbable  that 
the  name  Jericho  may  have  been  derived  from  being 
associated  with  the  worship  of  this  goddess.  .Sec  Jer- 
icho. Nebo,  whether  it  be  the  name  under  which  the 
Chaldaeans  worshipped  the  Moon  or  the  planet  Mercury, 
enters  into  many  compounds : Nebu-zaradan,  Samgar- 
nebo,  and  the  like.  Bel  is  found  in  Belshazzar,  Ilelte- 
shazzar,  and  others.  Were  Baladan  of  Sliemitic  origin, 
it  would  probably  be  derived  from  Baal-Adon,  or  Ado- 
nis, the  Phoenician  deity  to  whose  worship  Jer.  xxii,  18 
seems  to  refer ; but  it  has  more  properly  been  traced  to 
an  Indo-Germanic  root.  Hadad,  Hadadezer,  Benhadad, 
are  derived  from  the  tutelar  deity  of  the  Syrians,  and 
in  Nergalsharezer  we  recognise  the  god  of  the  Cushites. 
Chemosh,  the  fire-god  of  Moab,  appears  in  Carchemisli, 
and  Peor  in  Beth-Peor.  Malcom,  a name  which  occurs 
but  once,  and  then  of  a Moabite  by  birth,  may  have 
been  connected  with  Molecli  and  Milcom,  the  abomina- 
tion of  the  Ammonites.  A glimpse  of  star-worship  may 
be  seen  in  the  name  of  the  city  Chesil,  the  Sliemitic 
Orion,  and  the  month  Chisleu,  without  recognising  in 
Rahab  “the  glittering  fragments  of  the  sea-snake  trail- 
ing across  the  northern  sky.”  It  would,  perhaps,  be  go- 
ing too  far  to  trace  in  Engedi,  “spring  of  the  kid,”  any 
connection  with  the  goat-worship  of  Mendcs,  or  any  rel- 
I ics  of  the  wars  of  the  giants  in  Rapha  and  Rephaim. 
Fiirst,  indeed,  recognises  in  Gedi,  Venus  or  Astarte,  the 


IDOLATRY 


477 


IDOLATRY 


goddess  of  fortune,  and  identical  with  Gad  ( Handw . s. 
v.).  Hut  there  are  fragments  of  ancient  idolatry  in 
other  names  in  which  it  is  not  so  palpable.  Ishbosheth 
is  identical  with  Eshbaal,  and  Jerubbeslieth  with  Je- 
rnbbaal,  and  Mepliibosheth  and  Meribbaal  are  but  tAvo 
names  for  one  person  (comp.  Jer.  xi,  13).  The  worship 
of  the  Syrian  Himmon  appears  in  the  names  Hadad- 
Himmon,  and  Tabrimmon ; and  if,  as  some  suppose,  it 
be  derived  from  Rimmon,  “a  pomegranate-tree,” 

Ave  may  connect  it  Avith  the  toAvns  of  the  same  name  in 
Judah  and  Benjamin,  Avith  En-ltimmon  and  the  pre- 
vailing tree-AArorsliip.  It  is  impossible  to  pursue  this 
investigation  to  any  length  : the  hints  Avhich  have  been 
throAvn  out  may  proA'e  suggestive. — Smith.  See  each 
of  these  names  in  its  place. 

5.  Idolatrous  Usages.  — Mountains  and  high  places 
were  chosen  spots  for  offering  sacrifice  and  incense  to 
idols  (1  Kings  xi,  7 ; xrv,  23),  and  the  retirement  of 
gardens  and  the  thick  shade  of  Avoods  offered  great  at- 
tractions to  their  Avorshippers  (2  Kings  xvi,  4 ; Isa.  i, 
20;  llos.  iv,  13).  It  was  the  ridge  of  Carmel  Avhich 
Elijah  selected  as  the  scene  of  his  contest  with  the 
priests  of  Baal,  fighting  AA'ith  them  the  battle  of  Jeho- 
vah  as  it  Avere  on  their  oavh  ground.  See  Carmel. 
Carmel  Avas  regarded  by  the  Homan  historians  as  a sa- 
cred mountain  of  the  JeAA's  (Tacit.  Hist,  ii,  78;  Sueton. 
Vesp.  7).  The  host  of  heaven  Avas  Avorshipped  on  the 
housetop  (2  Kings  xxiii,  12;  Jer.  xix,  3;  xxxii,  29; 
Zepli.  i,  5).  In  describing  the  sun-Avorship  of  the  Na- 
bataii,  Strabo  (xvi,  784)  mentions  tAvo  characteristics 
Avhich  strikingly  illustrate  the  Avorship  of  Baal.  They 
built  their  altars  on  the  roofs  of  houses,  and  offered  on 
them  incense  and  libations  daily.  On  the  wall  of  his 
city,  in  the  sight  of  the  besieging  armies  of  Israel  and 
Edom,  the  king  of  Moab  offered  his  eldest  son  as  a 
burnt-offering.  The  Persians,  Avho  Avorshipped  the  sun 
under  the  name  of  Mithra  (Strabo,  xv,  732),  sacrificed 
on  an  elevated  spot,  but  built  no  altars  or  images.  See 
Mount. 

The  priests  of  the  false  worship  are  sometimes  desig- 
nated Chemarim,  a Avord  of  Syriac  origin,  to  which  dif- 
ferent meanings  have  been  assigned.  1 1 is  applied  to 
the  non-Levitical  priests  Avho  burnt  incense  on  the  high 
places  (2  Kings  xxiii,  5)  as  avcII  as  to  the  priests  of  the 
calves  (llos.  x,  5) ; and  the  corresponding  word  is  used  in 
thePeshito  (Judg.  xviii,30)  of  Jonathan  and  his  descend- 
ants, priests  to  the  tribe  of  Dan,  and  in  the  Targum  of 
Onkelos  (Gen.  xlvii,  22)  of  the  priests  of  Egypt.  The 
liabbis,  folloAved  by  Gesenius,  haA'e  derived  it  from  a 
root  signifying  “ to  be  black,”  and  Avithout  any  author- 
ity assert  that  the  name  Avas  gh'en  to  idolatrous  priests 
from  the  black  vestments  Avhich  they  Avore.  But  Avhite 
Avas  the  distinctive  color  in  the  priestly  garments  of  all 
nations  from  India  to  Gaul,  and  black  Avas  only  Avorn 
Avhen  they  sacrificed  to  the  subterranean  gods  (Biihr, 
Symb.  ii,  87,  etc.).  That  a special  dress  Avas  adopted  bv 
the  Baal-Avorshippers,  as  Avell  as  by  the  false  prophets 
(Zech.  xiii,  4),  is  evident  from  2 Kings  x,  22  (Avhere 
the  rendering  should  be  “ the  apparel”) : the  A’estments 
Avere  kept  in  an  apartment -of  the  idol  temple,  under  the 
charge  probably,  of  one  of  the  inferior  priests.  Micah’s 
LcArite  Avas  provided  Avith  appropriate  robes  (Judg.  XA'ii, 
11).  The  “foreign  apparel”  mentioned  in  Zeph.  i,  8, 
doubtless  refers  to  a similar  dress,  adopted  by  the  Is- 
raelites in  defiance  of  the  sumptuary  laAv  in  Numb,  xa', 
37-40.  See  Chemaium. 

In  addition  to  the  priests,  there  were  other  persons 
intimately  connected  A\ritli  idolatrous  rites,  and  the  im- 
purities from  Avhich  they  were  inseparable.  Both  men 
and  AA'omen  consecrated  themselves  to  the  sendee  of 
idols:  the  former  as  kedeshim,  for  AA'hich  there 

is  reason  to  belieA'e  the  A.  V.  (Deut.  xxiii,  17,  etc.)  has 
not  given  too  harsh  an  equivalent ; the  latter  as 
kedeshuth,  who  Avove  shrines  for  Astarte  (2  Kings  xxiii, 
7),  and  resembled  the  traipai  of  Corinth,  of  whom 
Strabo  (viii,  378)  says  there  Avere  more  than  a thousand 


attached  to  the  temple  of  Aphrodite.  Egyptian  pros- 
titutes consecrated  themselves  to  Isis  (Juvenal,  vi,  489; 
ix,  22-24).  The  same  class  of  women  existed  among 
the  Phoenicians,  Armenians,  Lydians,  and  Babylonians 
(Herod,  i,  93,  199;  Strabo,  xi,  p.  532;  Epist.  of  Jerem. 
ver.  43).  They  are  distinguished  from  the  public  pros- 
titutes (llos.  iv,  14),  and  associated  Avith  the  perform- 
ances of  sacred  rites,  just  as  in  Strabo  (xii,  p.  559)  Ave 
find  the  tAA’o  classes  co-existing  at  Comana,  the  Corinth 
of  Pontus,  much  frequented  by  pilgrims  to  the  shrine 
of  Aphrodite.  The  Avealth  thus  obtained  flowed  into 
the  treasury  of  the  idol  temple,  and  against  such  a prac- 
tice the  injunction  in  Deut.  xxiii,  18  is  directed.  Dr. 
Maitland,  anxious  to  defend  the  moral  character  of  Jew- 
ish Avomen,  has  AA'ith  much  ingenuity  attempted  to  sIioav 
that  a meaning  foreign  to  their  true  sense  has  been  at- 
tached to  the  words  aboA'e  mentioned ; and  that,  though 
closely  associated  Avith  idolatrous  services,  they  do  not 
indicate  such  foul  corruption  (Essay  on  False  Worship ). 
But  if,  as  MoA'ers,  AA'ith  great  appearance  of  probability, 
has  conjectured  ( Phun . i,  G79),  the  class  of  persons  al- 
luded to  was  composed  of  foreigners,  the  JeAvish  AA'omen 
in  this  respect  need  no  such  advocacy.  That  such  cus- 
toms existed  among  foreign  nations  there  is  abundant 
eA’idence  to  prove  (Lucian,  De  Syra  Deo,  c.  5) ; and 
from  the  juxtaposition  of  prostitution  and  the  idola- 
trous rites  against  which  the  laAvs  in  Lev.  xix  are  aim- 
ed, it  is  probable  that,  next  to  its  immorality,  one  main 
reason  Avhy  it  Avas  A'isited  AA'ith  such  stringency  was  its 
connection  Avith  idolatry  (compare  1 Cor.  vi,  9),  See 
Harlot. 

But  besides  these  accessories  there  Avere  the  ordinary 
rites  of  Avorship  Avhich  idolatrous  systems  had  in  com- 
mon Avith  the  religion  of  the  HebreAvs.  Offering  burnt 
sacrifices  to  the  idol  gods  (2  Kings  v,  17),  burning  in- 
cense in  their  honor  (1  Kings  xi,  8),  and  boAving  doAvn 
in  Avorship  before  their  images  (1  Kings  xix,  18)  Avere 
the  chief  parts  of  their  ritual,  and,  from  their  very  anal- 
ogy Avith  the  ceremonies  of  true  worship,  Avere  more 
seductive  than  the  grosser  forms.  Nothing  can  be 
stronger  or  more  posithre  than  the  language  in  Avhich 
these  ceremonies  were  denounced  by  HebreAv  laAV.  Ea'- 
ery  detail  of  idol-AArorship  Avas  made  the  subject  of  a 
separate  enactment,  and  many  of  the  laAvs,  Avhich  in 
themselves  seem  trivial  and  almost  absurd,  receive  from 
this  point  of  vieAV  their  true  significance.  We  are  told 
by  Maimonides  (Mor.  Nib.  c.  12)  that  the  prohibitions 
against  soAving  a field  with  mingled  seed,  and  Avearing 
garments  of  mixed  material,  were  directed  against  the 
practices  of  idolaters,  Avho  attributed  a kind  of  magical 
influence  to  the  mixture  (Lev.  xix,  19;  Spencer,  De 
Leg.  Ilebr.  ii,  18).  Such,  too,  were  the  precepts  Avhich 
forbade  that  the  garments  of  the  sexes  should  be  inter- 
changed (Deut.  xxiii,  5 ; Maimonides,  De  Idol,  xii,  9). 
According  to  Macrobius  (Sat.  iii.  8),  other  Asiatics,  AA'hen 
they  sacrificed  to  their  Venus,  changed  the  dress  of  the 
sexes.  The  priests  of  Cvbele  appeared  in  Avomen’s 
clothes,  and  used  to  mutilate  themselves  (Creuzer,  Symb. 
ii, 34, 42) : the  same  custom  Avas  obsen'ed  “by  the  Ithy- 
phalli  in  the  rites  of  Bacchus,  and  by  the  Athenians  in 
their  Ascophoria”  (Young,  Idol.  Cor.  in  Rel.  i,  105 ; comp. 
Lucian,  De  Dea  Syra,  c.  15).  To  preserve  the  Israel- 
ites from  contamination,  they  Avere  prohibited  for  three 
years  after  their  conquest  of  Canaan  from  eating  of  the 
fruit-trees  of  the  land,  AA'hose  cultivation  had  been  at- 
tended with  magical  rites  (Lev',  xix,  23).  They  were 
forbidden  to  “round  the  corner  of  the  head,”  and  to 
“mar  the  comer  of  the  beard”  (Lca\  xix,  27),  as  the 
Arabians  did  in  honor  of  their  gods  (Herod,  iii,  8 ; iv, 
175).  Hence  the  phrase  (literally),  “shorn 

of  the  comer,”  is  especially  applied  to  idolaters  (Jer.  ix, 
2G ; xxv,  23).  Spencer  (De  Leg.  Ilebr.  ii,  9,  § 2)  explains 
the  laAv  forbidding  the  offering  of  honey  (Lca\  ii,  11)  as 
intended  to  oppose  an  idolatrous  practice.  Strabo  de- 
scribes the  Magi  as  offering  in  all  their  sacrifices  liba- 
tions of  oil  mixed  with  honey  and  milk  (xa',  p.  733), 
Offerings  in  Avhich  honey  Avas  an  ingredient  were  made 


IDOLATRY 


478 


IDOLATRY 


to  the  inferior  deities  and  the  dead  (Homer,  Od.  x,  519; 
Porph.  De  Antr.  Nymph,  c.  17).  So  also  the  practice 
of  eating  the  flesh  of  sacrifices  “over  the  blood”  (Lev. 
xix,  26;  Ezek.  xxxiii,  25,  26)  was,  according  to  Mai- 
monides,  common  among  the  Zabii.  Spencer  gives  a 
double  reason  for  the  prohibition : that  it  was  a rite  of 
divination,  and  divination  of  the  worst  kind,  a species 
of  necromancy  by  which  they  attempted  to  raise  the 
spirits  of  the  dead  (comp.  Horace,  Sat.  i,  8).  There  are 
supposed  to  be  allusions  to  the  practice  of  necromancy 
in  Isa.  lxv,  4,  or,  at  any  rate,  to  superstitious  rites  in 
connection  with  the  dead.  The  grafting  of  one  tree 
upon  another  was  forbidden,  because  among  idolaters 
the  process  was  accompanied  by  gross  obscenity  (Mai- 
mon.  Mur.  Neb.  c.  12).  Cutting  the  flesh  for  the  dead 
(Lev.  xix,  28;  1 Kings  xviii,  28),  and  making  a bald- 
ness between  the  eyes  (Deut.  xiv,  1),  were  associated 
with  idolatrous  rites,  the  latter  being  a custom  among 
the  Syrians  (Sir  G.  Wilkinson  in  Rawlinson’s  Ilerod.  ii, 
158  note).  The  thrice-repeated  and  much-vexed  pas- 
sage, “ Thou  shalt  not  seethe  a kid  in  his  mother’s  milk” 
(Exod.  xxiii,  19;  xxxiv,26;  Deut.  xiv,  21),  interpreted 
by  some  as  a precept  of  humanity,  is  explained  by  Cud- 
worth  in  a very  different  manner.  He  quotes  from  a 
Karaite  commentary  which  he  had  seen  in  MS.:  “It 
was  a custom  of  the  ancient  heathens,  when  they  had 
gathered  in  all  their  fruit,  to  take  a kid  and  boil  it  in 
the  dam’s  milk,  and  then  in  a magical  way  go  about 
and  besprinkle  with  it  all  the  trees,  and  fields,  and  gar- 
dens, and  orchards ; thinking  by  this  means  they  should 
make  them  fructify,  and  bring  forth  again  more  abun- 
dantly the  following  year”  (On  the  Lord's  Supper , c.  2). 
Dr.  Thomson  mentions  a favorite  dish  among  the  Arabs 
called  lebn  irnmii,  to  which  he  conceives  allusion  is  made 
( The  Land  and  the  Booh,  i,  135).  The  law  which  regu- 
lated clean  and  unclean  meats  (Lev.  xx,  23-26)  may  be 
considered  both  as  a sanitary  regulation  anti  also  as 
having  a tendency  to  separate  the  Israelites  from  the 
surrounding  idolatrous  nations.  It  was  with  the  same 
object,  in  the  opinion  of  Michaelis,  that  while  in  the 
wilderness  they  were  prohibited  from  killing  any  animal 
for  food  without  first  offering  it  to  Jehovah  ( Laics  of 
Moses,  art.  203).  The  mouse,  one  of  the  miclean  ani- 
mals of  Leviticus  (xi,  29),  was  sacrificed  by  the  ancient 
Magi  (Isa.  lxvi,  17 ; Movers,  Phbn.  i,  2 1 9).  It  may  have 
been  some  such  reason  as  that  assigned  by  Lewis  ( Orig . 
Jlebr.  v,  1),  that  the  dog  was  the  symbol  of  an  Egyptian 
deity,  which  gave  rise  to  the  prohibition  in  Deut.  xxiii, 
18.  Movers  says  (i,  404)  the  dog  was  offered  in  sac- 
rifice to  Moloch,  as  swine  to  the  moon  and  Dionysus  by 
the  Egyptians,  who  afterwards  ate  of  the  flesh  (Herod, 
iii,  47 : Isa.  lxv,  4).  Eating  of  the  things  offered  was 
a necessary  appendage  to  the  sacrifice  (compare  Exod. 
xviii,  12;  xxxii,  6;  xxxiv,  15;  Numb,  xxv,  2,  etc.). 
Among  the  Persians  the  victim  was  eaten  by  the  wor- 
shippers, and  the  soul  alone  left  for  the  god  (Strabo,  xv, 
732).  “Hence  it  is  that  the  idolatry  of  the  Jews  in 
worshipping  other  gods  is  so  often  described  synecdocli- 
icallv  under  the  notion  of  feasting.  Isa.  lvii,  7,  ‘ LTpon 
a high  and  lofty  mountain  thou  hast  set  thy  bed,  and 
thither  wentest  thou  up  to  offer  sacrifice;’  for  in  those 
ancient  times  they  were  not  wont  to  sit  at  feasts,  but  lie 
down  on  beds  or  couches.  Ezek.  xxiii,  41 ; Amos  ii,  8, 
‘They  laid  themselves  down  upon  clothes  laid  to  pledge 
by  every  altar,’  i.  e.  laid  themselves  down  to  eat  of  the 
sacrifice  that  was  offered  on  the  altar;  compare  Ezek. 
xviii,  1 1”  (Cudworth,  nt  supra,  c.  1 ; comp.  1 Cor.  viii, 

10) .  The  Israelites  were  forbidden  “to  print  any  mark 
upon  them”  (Lev.  xix,  28),  because  it  was  a custom  of 
idolaters  to  brand  upon  their  flesh  some  symbol  of  the 
deity  they  worshipped,  as  the  ivy-leaf  of  Bacchus  (3 
Macc.  H,  29).  According  to  Lucian  (De  Dea  Syra,  59), 
all  the  Assyrians  wore  marks  of  this  kind  on  their  necks 
and  wrists  (comp.  Isa.  xliv,  5;  Gal.  vi,  17 ; Rev.  xiv,  1. 

11) .  Many  other  practices  of  false  worship  are  alluded 
to,  and  made  the  subjects  of  rigorous  prohibition,  but 
none  are  more  frequently  or  more  severely  denounced 


than  those  which  peculiarly  distinguished  the  worship 
of  Molech.  It  has  been  attempted  to  deny  that  the 
worship  of  this  idol  was  polluted  by  the  foul  stain  of 
human  sacrifice,  but  the  allusions  are  too  plain  and  too 
pointed  to  admit  of  reasonable  doubt  (Deut.  xii,  31 ; 2 
Kings  iii,  27 ; Jer.  vii,  31 ; Psa.  evi,  37 ; Ezek.  xxiii,  39). 
Nor  was  this  practice  confined  to  the  rites  of  Molech ; 
it  extended  to  those  of  Baal  (Jer.  xix,  5),  and  the  king 
of  Moab  (2  Kings  iii,  27)  offered  his  son  as  a burnt-of- 
fering to  his  god  Cliemosh.  The  Phoenicians,  we  are 
told  by  Porphyry  (De  Abstin.  ii,  c.  56),  on  occasions  of 
great  national  calamity  sacrificed  to  Kronos  one  of  their 
dearest  lrieiids.  Some  allusions  to  this  custom  may  be 
seen  in  Micah  vi,  7.  Kissing  the  images  of  the  gods  (1 
Kings  xix,  18 ; Hos.  xiii,  2),  hanging  votive  offerings  in 
their  temples  (1  Sam.  xxxi,  10),  and  carrying  them  to 
battle  (2  Sam.  v,  21),  as  the  Jews  of  Maccabaeus’s  army 
did  with  the  things  consecrated  to  the  idols  of  the  Jam- 
nites  (2  Macc.  xii,  40),  are  usages  connected  with  idola- 
try which  are  casually  mentioned,  though  not  made  the 
objects  of  express  legislation.  But  soothsaying,  inter- 
pretation of  dreams,  necromancy,  witchcraft,  magic,  and 
other  forms  of  divination,  arc  alike  forbidden  (Deut. 
xviii,  9 ; 2 Kings  i,  2 ; Isa.  lxv,  4 ; Ezek.  xxi,  21).  The 
history  of  other  nations — and,  indeed,  the  too  common 
practice  of  the  lower  class  of  the  population  of  Syria  at 
the  present  day — shows  us  that  such  a statute  as  that 
against  bestiality  (Lev.  xviii,  23)  was  not  unnecessary 
(comp.  Herod,  ii,  46 ; Rom.  i,  26).  Purificatory  rites  in 
connection  with  idol-worship,  and  eating  of  forbidden 
food,  were  visited  with  severe  retribution  (Isa.  lxvi,  17). 
It  is  evident,  from  the  context  of  Ezek.  viii,  17,  that  the 
votaries  of  the  sun,  who  worshipped  with  their  faces  to 
the  east  (ver.  16),  and  “put  the  branch  to  their  nose,” 
did  so  in  observance  of  some  idolatrous  rite.  Movers 
(Plibn.  i,  66)  unhesitatingly  affirms  that  the  allusion  is 
to  the  branch  Barsom,  the  holy  branch  of  the  Magi 
(Strabo,  xv,  p.  733),  while  Ilitvernick  (Comm,  zu  Ezech. 
p.  117),  with  equal  confidence,  denies  that  the  passage 
supports  such  an  inference,  and  renders,  having  in  view 
the  lament  of  the  women  for  Tammuz,  “ Sie  entsenden 
den  Trauergesang  zu  ihren  Zorn.”  The  waving  of  a 
myrtle  branch,  says  Maimonides  (De  Idol,  vi,  2),  accom- 
panied the  repetition  of  a magical  formula  in  incanta- 
tions. An  illustration  of  the  use  of  boughs  in  worship 
will  be  found  in  the  Greek  tKtrijpta  (Ascii.  Eum.  43 ; 
Suppl.  192;  Schol.  on  Aristoph.  Plut.  383;  Porphyr.  De 
Ant.  Nymph,  c.  33).  For  detailed  accounts  of  idolatrous 
ceremonies,  reference  must  be  made  to  the  articles  upon 
the  several  idols. — Smith.  See  Sacrifice. 

IY.  History  of  Idolatry  among  the  Jews. — 1.  The  first 
undoubted  allusion  to  idolatry  or  idolatrous  customs  in 
the  Bible  is  in  the  account  of  Rachel’s  stealing  her  fa- 
ther’s terapliim  (Gen.  xxxi,  19),  a relic  of  the  worship 
of  other  gods,  whom  the  ancestors  of  the  Israelites  served 
“ on  the  other  side  of  the  river,  in  old  time”  (Josh,  xxiv, 
2).  By  these  household  deities  Laban  was  guided,  and 
these  he  consulted  as  oracles  (*,tTC5n3,'Gen.  xxx,  27,  A. 
Y.  “ learned  by  experience”),  though  without  entirely 
losing  sight  of  the  God  of  Abraham  and  the  God  of  Na- 
hor,  to  whom  he  appealed  when  occasion  offered  (Gen. 
xxxi,  53),  while  he  was  ready,  in  the  presence  of  Jacob, 
to  acknowledge  the  benefits  conferred  upon  him  by  Je- 
hovah (Gen.  xxx,  27).  Such,  indeed,  was  the  character 
of  most  of  the  idolatrous  worship  of  the  Israelites.  Like 
the  Cutha-an  colonists  in  Samaria,  who  “feared  Jehovah 
and  served  their  own  gods”  (2  Kings  xvii,  33),  they 
blended  in  a strange  manner  a theoretical  belief  in  the 
true  God  with  the  external  reverence  which,  in  differ- 
ent stages  of  their  history,  they  were  led  to  pay  to  the 
idols  of  the  nations  by  whom  th'ey  were  surrounded. 
For  this  species  of  false  worship  they  seem,  at  all  events, 
to  have  had  an  incredible  propension.  On  their  jour- 
ney from  iShechem  to  Bethel,  the  family  of  Jacob  put 
away  from  among  them  “the  gods  of  th e foreigner 
not  the  teraphim  of  Laban,  but  the  gods  of  the  Canaan- 
ites  through  whose  land  they  passed,  and  the  amulets 


IDOLATRY 


479 


IDOLATRY 


and  charms  which  were  worn  as  the  appendages  of  their 
worship  (Gen.  xxxv,  2, 4).  See  Jacou. 

During  their  long  residence  in  Egypt,  the  country  of 
symbolism,  they  defiled  themselves  with  the  idols  of  the 
land,  and  it  was  long  before  the  taint  was  removed  (Josh, 
xxiv,  14;  Ezek.  xx,  7).  To  these  gods  Moses,  as  the 
herald  of  Jehovah,  flung  down  the  gauntlet  of  defiance 
(Kurtz,  Gesch.  d.  A It.  B.  ii,  89),  and  the  plagues  of  Egypt 
smote  their  symbols  (Numb.  xxxiii,4).  Yet,  with  the 
memory  of  their  deliverance  fresh  in  their  minds,  their 
leader  absent,  the  Israelites  clamored  for  some  visible 
shape  in  which  they  might  worship  the  God  who  had 
brought  them  up  out  of  Egypt  (Exod.  xxxii).  The  Is- 
raelites, as  dwellers  in  the  most  outlying  and  separate 
tract  of  the  Shemitic  part  of  Lower  Egypt,  are  more  like- 
ly to  have  followed  the  corruptions  of  the  Shepherd- 
strangers  than  those  of  the  Egyptians,  more  especially 
as,  saving  Joseph,  Moses,  and  not  improbably  Aaron  and 
Miriam,  they  seem  to  have  almost  universally  preserved 
the  manners  of  their  former  wandering  life.  There  is 
scarcely  a trace  of  Egyptian  influence  beyond  that  seen 
in  the  names  of  Moses  and  Miriam,  and  perhaps  of  Aa- 
ron also,  for  the  only  other  name  besides  the  former  two 
that  is  certainly  Egyptian,  and  may  be  reasonably  re- 
ferred to  this  period,  that  of  Ilarnepher,  evidently  the 
Egyptian  har-nefru,  “ Ilorus  the  good,”  in  the  gene- 
alogies of  Asher  (1  Chron.  vii,  36),  probably  marks  an 
Egyptian  taken  by  marriage  into  the  tribe  of  Asher, 
whether  a proselyte  or  not  we  cannot  attempt  to  decide. 
There  has  been  a difference  of  opinion  as  to  the  golden 
calf,  some  holding  that  it  was  made  to  represent  God 
himself,  others  maintaining  that  it  was  only  an  imi- 
tation of  an  Egyptian  idol.  We  first  observe  that 
this  and  Jeroboam’s  golden  calves  are  shown  to  have 
been  identical  in  the  intention  with  which  they  were 
made,  by  the  circumstance  that  the  Israelites  addressed 
the  former  as  the  God  who  had  brought  them  out  of 
Egypt  (Exod.  xxxii,  4, 8),  and  that  Jeroboam  proclaim- 
ed the  same  of  his  idols  (1  Kings  xii,  28).  We  next  re- 
mark that  Aaron  called  the  calf  not  only  god,  but  the  1 
Lord  (Exod.  xxxii,  5) ; that  in  the  Psalms  it  is  said 
“they  changed  their  glory  into  the  similitude  of  an  ox 
that  eateth  hay”  (evi,  20);  that  no  one  of  the  calf-wor- 
shipping kings  and  princes  of  Israel  bears  any  name  con- 
nected with  idolatry,  while  many  have  names  compound- 
ed with  the  most  sacred  name  of  God ; and  that  in  no 
place  is  any  foreign  divinity  connected  with  calf-wor- 
ship in  the  slightest  degree.  The  adoption  of  such  an 
image  as  the  golden  calf,  however,  shows  the  strength 
of  Egyptian  associations,  else  how  would  Aaron  have 
fixed  upon  so  ignoble  a form  as  that  of  the  God  who 
had  brought  Israel  out  of  Egypt?  Only  a mind  thor- 
oughly accustomed  to  the  profound  respect  paid  in  Egypt 
to  the  sacred  bulls,  and  especially  to  Apis  and  Mnevis, 
could  have  hit  upon  so  strange  a representation;  nor 
could  any  people  who  had  not  witnessed  the  Egyptian 
practices  have  found,  as  readily  as  did  the  Israelites,  the 
fulfilment  of  their  wishes  in  such  an  image.  The  feast 
that  Aaron  celebrated,  when,  after  eating  and  drinking, 
the  people  arose,  sang,  and  danced  naked  before  the  idol, 
is  strikingly  like  the  festival  of  the  finding  of  Apis, 
which  was  celebrated  with  feasting  and  dancing,  and 
also,  apparently,  though  this  custom  does  not  seem 
to  have  been  part  of  the  public  festivity,  with  indecent 
gestures.  See  Golden  Calf.  The  golden  calf  was 
not  the  only  idol  which  the  Israelites  worshipped  in  the 
Desert.  The  prophet  Amos  speaks  of  others.  In  the 
Masoretic  text  the  passage  is  as  follows : “ But  ye  bare 
the  tent  [or  tabernacle ] of  your  king  and  Chiun  your 
images,  the  star  of  your  gods  [or  your  god],  which  ye 
made  for  yourselves”  (v,  26).  The  Sept,  has  MoXdy  for 
“ your  king,”  as  though  their  original  Heb.  had  been 
instead  of  and  'Paapdv  for  Chiun,  be- 

sides a transposition.  In  the  Acts  the  reading  is  almost 
the  same  as  that  of  the  Sept.,  “ Yea,  ye  took  up  the  tab- 
ernacle of  Moloch,  and  the  star  of  your  god  Eeraphan, 
figures  which  ye  made  to  worship  them”  (.vii,  43).  We 


cannot  here  discuss  the  probable  causes  of  these  differ-* 
ences  except  of  the  more  important  ones,  the  substitu- 
tion of  Moloch  for  “your  king,”  and  Itaiphan  or  Ilem- 
phan  for  Chiun.  It  should  be  observed,  that  if  the  pas- 
sage related  to  Ammonitish  worship,  nothing  would  be 
more  likely  than  that  Molech  should  have  been  spoken 
of  by  an  appellative,  in  which  case  a strict  rendering  of 
the  Masoretic  text  would  read  as  does  the  A.V.;  a freer 
could  follow  the  Sept. and  Acts;  but,  as  there  is  no  ref- 
erence to  the  Ammonites  or  oven  Canaanites,  it  is  more 
reasonable  to  suppose  that  the  Sept,  followed  a text  in 
which,  as  above  suggested,  the  reading  was  DSlba,  Mal- 
charn,  or  “your  king.”  The  likelihood  of  this  being 
the  true  reading  must  depend  upon  the  rest  of  the  pas- 
sage. Eemphan  and  Chiun  are  at  once  recognised  as 
two  foreign  divinities  worshipped  together  in  Egypt, 
renpu,  probably  pronounced  kempu,  and  ken,  the  for- 
mer a god  represented  as  of  the  type  of  the  Shemites, 
and  apparently  connected  with  war,  the  latter  a goddess 
represented  naked  standing  upon  a lion.  They  were 
worshipped  with  iciikm,  the  Egyptian  god  of  produc- 
tiveness, and  the  foreign  war-goddess  anata.  Exclud- 
ing KHEM,  who  is  probably  associated  with  ken  from  her 
being  connected,  as  we  shall  see,  with  productiveness, 
these  names,  renpu,  ken,  and  anata,  are  clearly  not, 
except  in  orthography,  Egyptian.  We  can  suggest  no 
origin  for  the  name  of  renpu.  The  godddes  ken,  as 
naked,  would  be  connected  with  the  Babylonian  Mylit- 
ta,  and  as  standing  on  a lion,  with  a goddess  so  repre- 
sented in  rock-sculptures  at  Maltlieiyyeh,  near  Nineveh. 
The  former  similarity  connects  her  with  generation;  the 
latter,  perhaps,  does  so  likewise.  If  we  adopt  this  sup- 
position, the  name  ken  may  be  traced  to  a root  connect- 
ed with  generation  found  in  many  varieties  in  the  Ira- 
nian family,  and  not  out  of  that  family.  It  may  be  suf- 
ficient to  cite  the  Greek  yiv-ofiai,  yvv-i] : she  would 
thus  be  the  goddess  of  productiveness.  Anata  is  the 
Persian  Anaitis.  We  have  shown  earlier  that  the  Baby- 
lonian high  nature-worship  seems  to  have  been  of  Ary- 
an origin.  In  the  present  case  we  trace  an  Aryan  idola- 
try connected,  from  the  mention  of  a star,  with  high  na- 
ture-wTorsliip.  If  we  accept  this  explanation,  it  becomes 
doubtful  that  Molech  is  mentioned  in  the  passage,  and 
we  may  rather  suppose  that  some  other  idol,  to  whom  a 
kingly  character  was  attributed,  is  intended.  Here  we 
must  leave  this  difficult  point  of  our  inquiry,  only  sum- 
ming up  that  this  false  worship  was  evidently  derived 
from  the  shepherds  in  Egypt,  and  may  possibly  indicate 
the  Aryan  origin  of  at  least  one  of  these  tribes,  almost 
certainly  its  own  origin,  directly  or  indirectly,  from  an 
Aryan  source. 

The  next  was  a temporary  apostasy.  The  charms  of 
the  daughters  of  Moab,  as  Balaam’s  bad  genius  foresaw, 
were  potent  for  evil : the  Israelites  were  “yoked  to  Baal- 
Peor”  in  the  trammels  of  his  fair  worshippers,  and  the 
character  of  their  devotions  is  not  obscurely  hinted  at 
(Numb.  xxv).  The  great  and  terrible  retribution  which 
followed  left  so  deep  an  impress  upon  the  hearts  of  the 
people  that,  after  the  conquest  of  the  promised  land,  they 
looked  with  an  eye  of  terror  upon  any  indication  of  de- 
fection from  the  worship  of  Jehovah,  and  denounced  as 
idolatrous  a memorial  so  slight  as  the  altar  of  the  Rcu- 
benites  at  the  passage  of  Jordan  (Josh.xxii,  16). 

2.  It  is  probable  that  during  the  wanderings,  and  nn- 
der  the  strong  rule  of  Joshua,  the  idolatry  learnt  in  Egypt 
was  so  destroyed  as  to  be  afterwards  utterly  forgotten  by 
the  people.  But  hi  entering  Palestine  they  found  them- 
selves among  the  monuments  and  associations  of  anoth- 
er false  religion,  less  attractive  indeed  to  the  reason  than 
that  of  Egypt,  which  still  taught,  notwithstanding  the 
wretched  fetishism  that  it  supported,  some  great  truths 
of  man’s  present  and  future,  but  of  a religion  which,  in 
its  deification  of  nature,  had  a strong  hold  on  the  imagi- 
nation. The  genial  sun,  the  refreshing  moon,  the  stars, 
at  whose  risings  or  settings  fell  the  longed-for  rains, 
were  naturally  reverenced  in  that  land  of  green  hills 
and  valleys,  which  were  fed  by  the  water  of  heaven.  A 


IDOLATRY 


IDOLATRY  480 


nation  thrown  in  the  scene  of  such  a religion  and  mix- 
ed with  those  who  professed  it,  at  that  period  of  nation- 
al life  when  impressions  are  most  readily  made,  such  a 
nation,  albeit  living  while  the  recollection  of  the  deliv- 
erance from  Egypt  and  the  wonders  with  which  the  Law 
was  given  was  yet  fresh,  soon  fell  away  into  the  prac- 
tices that  it  was  strictly  enjoined  to  root  out.  In  the 
first  and  second  laws  of  the  Decalogue,  the  Israelites 
were  commanded  to  worship  but  one  God,  and  not  to 
make  any  image  whatever  to  worship  it,  lest  they  and 
their  children  should  fall  under  God’s  heavy  displeasure. 
The  commands  were  explicit  enough.  But  not  alone 
was  idolatry  thus  clearly  condemned : the  Israelites  were 
charged  to  destroy  all  objects  connected  with  the  relig- 
ion of  the  inhabitants  of  Canaan.  They  were  to  destroy 
utterly  all  the  heathen  places  of  worship,  “ upon  the 
high  mountains,  and  upon  the  hills,  and  under  every 
green  tree.”  They  were  to  “overthrow”  the  “altars” 
of  the  heathen,  “break  their  pillars,”  “burn  their  groves, 
hew  down  the  graven  images  of  their  gods,  and  destroy 
the  names  of  them  out  of  that  place”  (Deut.  xii,  2, 3),  a 
passage  we  cite  on  account  of  the  fulness  of  the  enumer- 
ation. Had  the  conquered  nations  been  utterly  extir- 
pated, their  idolatry  might  have  been  annihilated  at 
once.  But  soon  after  the  lands  had  been  apportioned, 
that  separate  life  of  the  tribes  began  which  was  never 
interrupted,  as  far  as  history  tells  us,  until  the  time  of 
the  kings.  Divided,  the  tribes  were  unable  to  cope  with 
the  remnant  of  the  Canaanites,  and  either  dwelt  with 
them  on  equal  terms,  reduced  them  to  tribute,  or  be- 
came tributaries  themselves.  The  Israelites  were  thus 
surrounded  by  the  idolatry  of  Canaan ; and  since  they 
were  for  the  most  part  confined  to  the  mountain  and 
hilly  districts,  where  its  associations  were  strongest,  they 
had  but  to  learn  from  their  neighbors  how  they  had  wor- 
shipped upon  the  high  hills  and  under  every  green  tree. 
From  the  use  of  plural  forms,  it  is  probable  that  the  Baals 
and  Ashtoreths  of  several  towns  or  tribes  were  worship- 
ped by  the  Israelites,  as  Baal-Peor  had  been,  and  Baal- 
berith  afterwards  was.  It  does  not  seem,  however,  that 
the  people  at  once  fell  into  heathen  worship:  the  first 
step  appears  to  have  been  adopting  a corruption  of  the 
true  religion. 

During  the  lives  of  Joshua  and  the  elders  who  out- 
lived him,  indeed,  they  kept  true  to  their  allegiance ; 
but  the  generation  following,  who  knew  not  Jehovah, 
nor  the  works  he  had  done  for  Israel,  swerved  from  the 
plain  path  of  their  fathers,  and  were  caught  in  the  toils 
of  the  foreigner  (Judg.  ii).  From  this  time  forth  their 
history  becomes  little  more  than  a chronicle  of  the  in- 
evitable sequence  of  offence  and  punishment.  “ They 
provoked  Jehovah  to  anger  . . . and  the  anger  of  Je- 
hovah was  hot  against  Israel,  and  he  delivered  them 
into  the  hands  of  spoilers  that  spoiled  them”  (Judg.  ii, 
.12,  14).  The  narratives  of  the  book  of  Judges,  contem- 
poraneous or  successive,  tell  of  the  fierce  struggle  main- 
tained against  their  hated  foes,  and  how  women  forgot 
their  tenderness  and  forsook  their  retirement  to  sing  the 
song  of  victory  over  the  oppressor.  By  turns,  each  con- 
quering nation  strove  to  establish  the  worship  of  its 
national  god.  During  the  ride  of  Midian,  Joash,  the 
father  of  Gideon,  had  an  altar  to  Baal,  and  an  Asherah 
(Judg.  vi,  25),  though  he  proved  but  a lukewarm  wor- 
shipper (ver.  31).  Even  Gideon  himself  gave  occasion 
to  idolatrous  worship ; yet  the  epliod  which  he  made 
from  the  spoils  of  the  Midiauites  was  perhaps  but  a vo- 
tive offering  to  the  true  God  (Judg.  viii,  27).  It  is  not 
improbable  that  the  gold  ornaments  of  which  it  was 
composed  were  in  some  way  connected  with  idolatry 
(comp.  Isa.  iii,  18-24),  and  that,  from  their  having  been 
worn  as  amulets,  some  superstitions  virtue  was  conceived 
to  cling  to  them  even  in  their  new  form.  But,  though 
in  Gideon’s  lifetime  no  overt  act  of  idolatry  was  prac- 
tised, he  was  no  sooner  dead  than  the  Israelites  again 
returned  to  the  sendee  of  the  Baalim,  and,  as  if  in  sol- 
emn mockery  of  the  covenant  made  with  Jehovah,  chose 
from  among  them  Baal-Berith,  “ Baal  of  the  Covenant” 


(comp.  Ztvg  opiciog),  as  the  object  of  their  special  ado- 
ration (Judg.  viii,  33).  Of  this  god  we  know  only  that 
his  temple,  probably  of  wood  (Judg.  ix,  49),  was  a strong- 
hold in  time  of  need,  and  that  his  treasury  was  filled 
with  the  silver  of  the  worshippers  (ix,  4).  Nor  were 
the  calamities  of  foreign  oppression  confined  to  the  land 
of  Canaan.  The  tribes  on  the  east  of  Jordan  went  astray 
after  the  idols  of  the  land,  and  were  delivered  into  the 
hands  of  the  children  of  Ammon  (Judg.  x,  8).  But  they 
put  away  from  among  them  “ the  gods  of  the  foreigner,” 
and  with  the  baseborn  Jephthali  for  their  leader  gained 
a signal  victory  over  their  oppressors.  The  exploits  of 
Samson  against  the  Philistines,  though  achieved  within 
a narrower  space  and  with  less  important  results  than 
those  of  hia  predecessors,  fill  a brilliant  page  in  his  coun- 
try’s history.  But  the  tale  of  his  marvellous  deeds  is 
prefaced  by  that  ever-recurring  phrase,  so  mournfully 
familiar,  “the  children  of  Israel  did  evil  again  in  the 
eyes  of  Jehovah,  and  Jehovah  gave  them  into  the  hand 
of  the  Philistines.”  Thus  far  idolatry  is  a national  sin. 
The  episode  of  Micah,  in  Judg.  xvii,  xviii,  sheds  a lurid 
light  on  the  secret  practices  of  individuals,  who,  without 
formally  renoimcing  Jehovah,  though  ceasing  to  recog- 
nise him  as  the  theocratic  king  (xvii,  6),  linked  with 
his  worship  the  symbols  of  ancient  idolatry.  The  house 
of  God,  or  sanctuary,  which  Micah  made  in  imitation 
of  that  at  Shiloh,  was  decorated  with  an  epliod  and  ter- 
aphim  dedicated  to  God,  and  with  a graven  and  molten 
image  consecrated  to  some  inferior  deities  (Selden,  Be 
Bis  Syris,  synt.  i,  2).  It  is  a significant  fact,  showing 
how  deeply  rooted  in  the  people  was  the  tendency  to 
idolatry,  that  a Levite,  who,  of  all  others,  should  have 
been  most  sedulous  to  maintain  Jehovah’s  worship  in 
its  purity,  was  found  to  assume  the  office  of  priest  to 
the  images  of  Micah ; and  that  this  Levite,  priest  after- 
wards to  the  idols  of  Dan,  was  no  other  than  Jonathan, 
the  son  of  Gershom,  the  son  of  Moses.  Tradition  says 
that  these  idols  were  destroyed  when  the  Philistines 
defeated  the  army  of  Israel  and  took  from  them  the  ark 
of  the  covenant  of  Jehovah  (1  Sam.  iv).  The  Danites 
are  supposed  to  have  carried  them  into  the  field,  as  the 
other  tribes  bore  the  ark,  and  the  Philistines  the  im- 
ages of  their  gods,  when  they  went  forth  to  battle  (2 
Sam.  v,  21 ; Lewis,  Grig.  Ilebr.  v,  9).  But  the  Seder 
Olam  Rubba  (c.  24)  interprets  “the  captivity  of  the 
land”  (Judg.  xviii,  30),  of  the  captivity  of  Manasseh; 
and  Benjamin  of  Tudela  mistook  the  remains  of  later 
Gentile  worship  for  traces  of  the  altar  or  statue  which 
Micah  had  dedicated,  and  which  was  worshipped  by 
the  tribe  of  Dan  (Selden,  Be  Bis  Syr.  synt.  i,  2 ; Stan- 
ley, S.  and  Pal.  p.  398).  In  later  times  the  practice  of 
secret  idolatry  was  carried  to  greater  lengths.  Images 
were  set  up  on  the  corn-floors,  in  the  wine-vats,  and  be- 
hind the  doors  of  private  houses  (Isa.  lvii,  8 ; IIos.  ix,  1, 
2);  and  to  check  this  tendency  the  statute  in  Deut. 
xxvii,  15  was  originally  promulgated.  It  is  noticeable 
that  they  do  not  seem  during  this  period  to  have  gen- 
erally adopted  the  religions  of  any  but  the  Canaanites, 
although  in  one  remarkable  passage  they  are  said,  be- 
tween the  time  of  Jair  and  that  of  Jephthah,  to  have 
forsaken  the  Lord,  and  served  Baalim,  and  Ashtaroth, 
and  the  gods  of  Syria,  Zidon,  Moab,  the  children  of  Am- 
mon, and  the  Philistines  (Judg.  x,  6),  as  though  there 
had  then  been  an  utter  and  profligate  apostasy.  The 
cause,  no  doubt,  was  that  the  Canaanitish  worship  was 
borrowed  in  a time  of  amity,  and  that  but  one  Canaan-, 
itish  oppressor  is  spoken  of,  whereas  the  Abraliamites  of 
the  east  of  Palestine,  and  the  Philistines,  were  almost 
always  enemies  of  the  Israelites.  Each  time  of  idolatry 
was  punished  by  a servitude,  each  reformation  followed 
by  a deliverance.  Speedily  as  the  nation  returned  to. 
idolatry,  its  heart  wras  fresher  than  that  of  the  ten  tribes? 
which  followed  Jeroboam,  and  never  seem  to  have  had 
one  thorough  national  repentance. 

3.  The  notices  of  their  great  wars  show  that  the  en- 
mity between  the  Philistines  and  the  Israelites  was  too 
great  for  any  idolatry  to  be  then  borrowed  from  the  for- 


IDOLATRY  481  IDOLATRY 


mer  by  the  latter,  though  at  an  earlier  time  this  was  not 
the  ease.  Under  Samuel’s  administration  a fast  was  held, 
and  purificatory  rites  performed,  to  mark  the  public  re- 
nunciation of  idolatry  (l  Sam.  vii,  3-6).  Said  s family 
were,  however,  tainted,  as  it  seems,  with  idolatry,  for 
the  names  of  Ishbosheth  or  Esh-baal,  and  Mephiboslieth 
or  Merib-baal,  can  scarcely  have  been  given  but  in  hon- 
or of  Baal.  From  the  circumstances  of  Michal’s  strata- 
gem to  save  David,  it  seems  not  only  that  Saul’s  family 
kept  teraphim,  but,  apparently,  that  they  used  them  for 
purposes  of  divination,  the  Sept,  having  “ liver  for 
« pillow,”  as  if  the  Hebr.  had  been  1^3  instead  of  the 
present  “P23.  See  Pillow.  The  circumstance  of 
having  teraphim,  more  especially  if  they  were  used  for 
divination,  lends  especial  force  to  Samnel’s  Tcproof  of 
Saul  (I  Sam.  xv,  23).  During  the  reign  of  David  idol- 
atry in  public  is  unmentioned,  and  no  doubt  was  almost 
unknown.  See  David. 

The  earlier  days  of  Solomon  were  the  happiest  of  the 
kingdom  of  Israel.  The  Temple  worship  was  fully  es- 
tablished, with  the  highest  magnificence,  and  there  was 
no  excuse  for  that  worship  of  God  at  high  places  which 
seems  to  have  been  before  permitted  on  account  of  the 
constant  distractions  of  the  country.  But  the  close  of 
that  reign  was  marked  by  an  apostasy  of  which  we 
read  with  wonder.  Hitherto  the  people  hail  been  the 
sinners,  their  leaders  reformers;  this  time  the  king,  led 
astray  by  his  many  strange  wives,  perverted  the  people, 
and  raised  high  places  on  the  Mount  of  Corruption,  op- 
posite God’s  temple,  lie  worshipped  Ashtoreth,  god- 
dess of  the  Zidonians,  Chemosh,  the  god  of  the  Moab- 
ites, and  Milcom,  the  abomination  of  the  Ammonites, 
building  high  places  for  the  latter  two,  as  well  as  for  all 
the  gods  of  his  strange  wives.  Solomon,  no  doubt,  was 
very  tolerant,  and  would  not  prevent  these  women  from 
following  their  native  superstitions,  even  if  they  felt  it 
a duty  to  burn  their  and  his  children  before  Molecli. 
Foreign  idolatry  was  openly  imitated.  Three  of  the 
summits  of  Olivet  were  crowned  with  the  high  places 
of  Ashtoreth,  Chemosh,  and  Moloch  (I  Kings  xi,  7 ; 2 
Kings  xxiii,  13),  and  the  fourth,  in  memory  of  his  great 
apostasy,  was  branded  with  the  opprobrious  title  of  the 
“Mount  of  Corruption.”  Calamity  speedily  followed 
this  great  apostasy : the  latter  years  of  Solomon  were 
troubled  by  continual  premonitions  of  those  political  re- 
verses which  were  the  inevitable  penalty  of  this  high- 
treason  against  the  theocracy.  This  is  clearly  brought 
out  by  the  marked  and  frequent  denunciations  of  the 
later  prophets. — lvitto ; Smith.  See  Solomon'. 

Kehoboara,  the  son  of  an  Ammonitish  mother,  perpet- 
uated the  worst  features  of  Solomon’s  idolatry  (1  Kings 
xiv,  22-24) ; and  in  his  reign  was  made  the  great  schism 
in  the  national  religion — when  Jeroboam,  fresh  from  his 
recollections  of  the  Apis  worship  of  Egypt,  erected  gold- 
en calves  at  Bethel  and  at  Dan,  and  by  this  crafty  state 
policy  severed  forever  the  kingdoms  of  Judah  and  Is- 
rael (1  Kings  xii,  2G-33).  To  their  use  were  temples 
consecrated,  and  the  service  in  their  honor  was  studi- 
ously copied  from  the  Mosaic  ritual.  High-priest  him- 
self, Jeroboam  ordained  priests  from  the  lowest  ranks  (2 
Chron.  xi,  15) ; incense  and  sacrifices  were  offered,  and  a 
solemn  festival  appointed,  closely  resembling  the  feast 
of  tabernacles  (1  Kings  xii,  23, 33 ; comp.  Amos  iv,  4, 5). 
See  Jeroboam.  The  worship  of  the  calves,  “the  sin 
of  Israel”  (Hos.  x,  8),  which  was  apparently  associated 
with  the  goat-worship  of  Mendes  (2  Chron.  xi,  15; 
Herod,  ii,  46)  or  of  the  ancient  Zabii  (Lewis,  Orig.  llebr. 
v,  3),  and  the  Asherim  (1  Kings  xiv,  15 ; A.V.  “groves”), 
ultimately  spread  to  the  kingdom  of  Judah,  and  centred 
in  Beerslieba  (Amos  v,  5 ; vii,  9).  At  what  precise  pe- 
riod it  was  introduced  into  the  latter  kingdom  is  not 
certain.  The  Chronicles  tell  us  how  Abijah  taunted 
Jeroboam  with  his  apostasy,  while  the  less  partial  nar- 
rative in  1 Kings  represents  his  own  conduct  as  far  from 
exemplary  (1  Kings  xv,  3).  Asa’s  sweeping  reform 
spared  not  even  the  idol  of  his  grandmother  Maachah, 
and,  with  the  exception  of  the  high  places,  he  removed 
IV. — H h 


all  relics  of  idolatrous  worship  (1  Kings  xv,  12-14),  with 
its  accompanying  impurities.  His  reformation  was 
completed  by  Jeliosliaphat  (2  Chron.  xvii,  6).  .See  each 
king  in  alphabetical  order. 

The  successors  of  Jeroboam  followed  in  his  steps,  till 
Aliab,  who  married  a Zidonian  princess,  at  her  instiga- 
tion (1  Kings  xxi,  25)  built  a temple  and  altar  to  Baal, 
and  revived  all  the  abominations  of  the  Amorites  (1 
Kings  xxi,  26).  For  this  he  attained  the  bad  pre-emi- 
nence of  having  done  “more  to  provoke  Jehovah,  the 
God  of  Israel,  to  anger  than  all  the  kings  of  Israel  that 
were  before  him”  (1  Kings  xvi,  33).  Compared  with 
the  worship  of  Baal,  the  worship  of  the  calves  was  a 
venial  offence,  probably  because  it  was  morally  less  de- 
testable, and  also  less  anti-national  (1  Kings  xii,  28;  2 
Kings  x,  28-31).  See  Elijah.  Henceforth  Baal-wor- 
sliip  became  so  completely  identified  with  the  northern 
kingdom  that  it  is  described  as  walking  in  the  way  or 
statutes  of  the  kings  of  Israel  (2  Kings  xvi,  3 ; xvii,  8), 
as  distinguished  from  t he  sin  of  Jeroboam,  which  ceased 
not  till  the  Captivity  (2  Kings  xvii,  23),  and  the  corrup- 
tion of  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  the  land.  The  idola- 
trous priests  became  a numerous  and  important  caste  (t 
Kings  xviii,  19),  living  under  the  patronage  of  royalty, 
and  fed  at  the  royal  table.  The  extirpation  of  Baal’s 
priests  by  Elijah,  and  of  his  followers  by  Jehu  (2  Kings 
x),  in  which  the  royal  family  of  Judah  shared  (2  Chron. 
xxii,7),  was  a death-blow  to  this  form  of  idolatry  in  Is- 
rael, though  other  systems  still  remained  (2  Kings  xiii, 
6).  But,  while  Israel  thus  sinned  and  was  punished, 
Judah  was  morally  more  guilty  (Ezek.  xvi,  51).  The 
alliance  of  Jehoshapliat  with  the  family  of  Aliab  trans- 
ferred to  the  southern  kingdom,  during  the  reigns  of  his 
son  and  grandson,  all  the  appurtenances  of  Baal- worship 
(2  Kings  viii,  18,  27).  In  less  than  ten  years  after  the 
death  of  that  king,  in  whose  praise  it.  is  recorded  that  he 
“ sought  not  the  Baalim,”  nor  walked  “ after  the  deed  of 
Israel”  (2  Chron.  xvii,  3,  4),  a temple  had  been  built  for 
the  idol,  statues  and  altars  erected,  and  priests  appointed 
to  minister  in  his  service  (2  Kings  xi,  18).  Jelioiada’s 
vigorous  measures  checked  the  evil  for  a time,  but  his 
reform  was  incomplete,  and  the  high  places  still  re- 
mained, as  in  the  days  of  Asa,  a nucleus  for  any  fresh 
system  of  idolatry  (2  Kings  xii,  3).  Much  of  this  might 
be  due  to  the  influence  of  the  king’s  mother,  Zibiah  of 
Becrsheba,  a place  intimately  connected  with  the  idola- 
trous defection  of  Judah  (Amos  viii,  14).  After  the 
death  of  Jehoiada,  the  princes  prevailed  upon  Joasli  to 
restore  at  least  some  portion  of  his  father’s  idolatry  (2 
Chron.  xxiv,  18).  The  conquest  of  the  Edomites  by 
Amaziali  introduced  the  worship  of  their  gods,  which 
had  disappeared  since  the  days  of  Solomon  (2  Chron. 
xxv,  14,  20).  After  this  period,  even  the  kings  who  did 
not  lend  themselves  to  the  encouragement  of  false  wor- 
ship had  to  contend  with  the  corruption  which  still  lin- 
gered in  the  hearts  of  the  people  (2  Kings  xv,  35;  2 
Chron.  xxvii,  2).  Hitherto  the  temple  had  been  kept 
pure.  The  statues  of  Baal  and  the  other  gods  were 
worshipped  in  their  own  shrines;  but  Ahaz,  who  “sac- 
rificed unto  the  gods  of  Damascus,  which  smote  him”  (2 
Chron.  xxviii,23),  and  built  altars  to  them  at  every  cor- 
ner of  Jerusalem,  and  high  places  in  every  city  of  Judah, 
replaced  the  brazen  altar  of  burnt-offering  by  one  made 
after  the  model  of  “the  altar”  of  Damascus,  and  dese- 
crated it  to  his  own  uses  (2  Kings  xvi,  10-15). 

The  conquest  of  the  ten  tribes  by  Shalmaneser  was 
for  them  the  last  scene  of  the  drama  of  abominations 
which  had  been  enacted  uninterruptedly  for  upwards  of 
250  years.  In  the  northern  kingdom  no  reformer  arose 
to  vary  the  long  line  of  royal  apostates;  whatever  was 
effected  in  the  way  of  reformation  was  done  by  the 
hands  of  the  people  (2  Chron.  xxxi,l).  But  even  in 
their  captivity  they  helped  to  perpetuate  the  corruption. 
The  colonists,  whom  the  Assyrian  conquerors  placed  in 
their  stead  in  the  cities  of  Samaria,  brought  with  them 
their  own  gods,  and  were  taught  at  Bethel,  by  a priest 
of  the  captive  nation,  “ the  manner  of  the  god  of  the 


IDOLATRY 


482 


IDOLATRY 


land,”  the  lessons  thus  learnt  resulting  in  a strange  ad- 
mixture of  the  calf-worship  of  Jeroboam  with  the  hom- 
age paid  to  their  national  deities  (2  Kings  xvii,  24-41). 
l'heir  descendants  were  in  consequence  regarded  with 
suspicion  by  the  elders  who  returned  from  the  captivity 
with  Ezra,  and  their  offers  of  assistance  rejected  (Ezra 
iv,  3).  See  Samaritans. 

The  first  act  of  Hezekiah  on  ascending  the  throne 
was  the  restoration  and  purification  of  the  Temple,  which 
had  been  dismantled  and  closed  during  the  latter  part 
of  his  hither’s  life  (2  Chron.  xxviii,  24;  xxix,  3).  The 
multitudes  who  flocked  to  Jerusalem  to  celebrate  the 
Passover,  so  long  in  abeyance,  removed  the  idolatrous 
altars  of  burnt-offering  and  incense  erected  by  Ahaz  (2 
Chron.  xxx,  14).  The  iconoclastic  spirit  was  not  con- 
fined to  Judah  and  Benjamin,  but  spread  throughout 
Ephraim  and  Manasseli  (2  Chron.  xxxi,  1),  and  to  all 
external  appearance  idolatry  was  extirpated.  But  the 
reform  extended  little  below  the  surface  (Isa.  xxix,  13). 
Among  the  leaders  of  the  people  there  were  many  in 
high  position  who  conformed  to  the  necessities  of  the 
time  (Isa.  xxviii,  14),  and  under  Mauasseh’s  patronage 
the  false  worship,  which  had  been  merely  driven  into 
obscurity,  broke  out  with  tenfold  virulence.  Idolatry 
of  every  form,  and  with  all  the  accessories  of  enchant- 
ments, divination,  and  witchcraft,  was  again  rife ; no 
place  was  too  sacred,  no  associations  too  hallowed,  to  be 
spared  the  contamination.  If  the  conduct  of  Ahaz  in 
erecting  an  altar  in  the  temple  court  is  open  to  a char- 
itable construction,  Manasseli’s  was  of  no  doubtful  char- 
acter. The  two  courts  of  the  Temple  were  profaned  by 
altars  dedicated  to  the  host  of  heaven,  and  the  image  of 
the  Asherali  polluted  the  holy  place  (2  Kings  xxi,  7 ; 2 
Chron.  xxxiii,  7, 15 ; comp.  Jer.  xxxii,  34).  Even  in  his 
late  repentance  he  did  not  entirely  destroy  all  traces  of 
his  former  wrong.  Tradition  states  that  the  remon- 
strances of  the  aged  Isaiah  (q.  v.)  only  served  to  secure 
his  own  martyrdom  (Gcmara  on  Yebumoth,  iv).  The 
people  still  burned  incense  on  the  high  places;  but  Je- 
hovah was  the  ostensible  object  of  their  worship.  The 
king’s  son  sacrificed  to  his  father’s  idols,  but  was  not  as- 
sociated with  him  in  his  repentance,  and  in  his  short 
reign  of  two  years  restored  all  the  altars  of  the  Baalim 
and  the  images  of  the  Asherali.  With  the  death  of  Jo- 
siah  ended  the  last  effort  to  revive  among  the  people  a 
purer  ritual,  if  not  a purer  faith.  The  lamp  of  David, 
which  had  long  shed  but  a struggling  rav,  flickered  for  a 
while,  and  then  went  out  in  the  darkness  of  Babylonian 
captivity. — Smith.  See  Judah,  Kingdom  of. 

It  will  be  useful  here  to  recapitulate  the  main  vari- 
eties of  the  idolatry  which  so  greatly  marred  the  relig- 
ious character  of  this  monarchical  period  of  the  Jewish 
state.  It  has  been  a question  much  debated  whether 
the  Israelites  were  ever  so  far  given  up  to  idolatry  as  to 
lose  all  knowledge  of  the  true  God.  It  would  be  hard 
to  assert  this  of  any  nation,  and  still  more  difficult  to 
prove.  That  there  always  remained  among  them  a 
faithful  few,  who  in  the  face  of  every  danger  adhered  to 
the  worship  of  Jehovah,  may  readily  be  believed,  for 
even  at  a time  when  Baal-worsliip  was  most  prevalent 
there  were  found  seven  thousand  in  Israel  who  had  not 
bowed  before  his  image  (1  Kings  xix,  18).  But  there 
is  still  room  for  grave  suspicion  that  among  the  masses 
of  the  people,  though  the  idea  of  a supreme  Being — of 
whom  the  images  they  worshipped  were  but  the  distort- 
ed representatives — was  not  entirely  lost,  it  was  so  ob- 
scured as  to  be  but  dimly  apprehended.  And  not  only 
were  the  ignorant  multitude  thus  led  astray,  but  the 
priests,  scribes,  and  prophets  became  leaders  of  the  apos- 
tasy (Jer.  ii,  8).  Warburton,  indeed,  maintained  that 
they  never  formally  renounced  Jehovah,  and  that  their 
defection  consisted  “ in  joining  foreign  worship  and  idol- 
atrous ceremonies  to  the  ritual  of  the  true  God”  (Die. 
Leg.  b.  v,  § 3).  But  one  passage  in  their  history,  though 
confessedly  obscure,  seems  to  point  to  a time  when,  un- 
der the  rule  of  the  judges,  “ Israel  for  many  days  had  no 
true  God,  and  no  teaching  priest,  and  no  law”  (2  Chron, 


xv,  3).  The  correlative  argument  of  Cudworth,  who 
contends  from  the  teaching  of  the  Hebrew  doctors  and 
rabbis  “that  the  pagan  nations  anciently,  at  least  the 
intelligent  amongst  them,  acknowledged  one  supreme 
God  of  the  whole  world,  and  that  all  other  gods  were 
but  creatures  and  inferior  ministers,”  is  controverted  by 
Mosheim  (Intell.  Syst.  i,  4.  § 30,  and  notes).  There  can 
be  no  doubt  that  much  of  the  idolatry  of  the  Hebrews 
consisted  in  worshipping  the  true  God  under  an  image, 
such  as  the  calves  at  Bethel  and  Dan  (Josephus,  Ant. 
viii,  8,  5;  cagctXeig  iiron’hgovQ  toj  Quo ),  and  by  asso- 
ciating his  worship  with  idolatrous  rites  (Jer.  xli,  5)  and 
places  consecrated  to  idols  (2  Kings  xviii,  22).  From 
the  peculiarity  of  their  position  they  were  never  distin- 
guished as  the  inventors  of  a new  pantheon,  nor  did  they 
adopt  any  one  system  of  idolatry  so  exclusively  as  ever 
to  become  identified  with  it  (so  the  Moabites  with  the 
worship  of  Chemosh  [Numb,  xxi,  29]);  but  they  no 
sooner  came  in  contact  with  other  nations  than  they 
readily  adapted  themselves  to  their  practices,  the  old 
spirit  of  antagonism  died  rapidly  away,  and  intermar- 
riage -was  one  step  to  idolatry. — Smith. 

a.  Sun-worship,  though  mentioned  with  other  kinds 
of  high  nature-worship,  as  in  the  enumeration  of  those 
suppressed  by  Josiah,  seems  to  have  been  practiced  alone 
as  well  as  with  the  adoration  of  other  heaventy  bodies. 

| In  Ezekiel’s  remarkable  vision  of  the  idolatries  of  Jeru- 
salem, he  saw  about  four-and-twenty  men  between  the 
[ porch  and  the  altar  of  the  Temple,  with  their  backs  to 
j the  Temple  and  their  faces  to  the  east,  worshipping  the 
sun  (Ezelt.  viii,  16).  Josiah  had  before  this  taken  away 
“the  horses  that  the  kings  of  Judah  had  given  to  the 
sun,  at  the  entering  in  of  the  house  of  the  Lord,”  and 
had  “burned  the  chariots  of  the  siui  with  fire”  (2  Kings 
xxiii,  11).  The  same  part  of  the  temple  is  perhaps  here 
meant.  There  is  nothing  to  show'  whether  these  were 
images  or  living  horses.  The  horse  was  sacred  to  the 
sun  among  the  Carthaginians,  but  the  worship  of  the 
visible  siui  instead  of  an  image  looks  rather  like  a Per- 
sian or  an  Arab  custom.  See  Sun. 

b.  In  the  account  of  Josiah’s  reform  we  read  of  the 
abolition  of  the  worship  of  Baal,  the  sun,  the  moon, 
Mazzaloth,  also  called  Mazzaroth  (Job  xxxviii,  32), 
which  we  hold  to  be  the  mansions  of  the  moon  [see 
Astronomy],  and  all  the  host  of  heaven  (2  Kings  xxiii, 
5).  Manasseli  is  related  to  have  served  “ all  the  host 
of  heaven”  (xxi,  3).  Jeremiah  speaks  of  “the  houses 
of  Jerusalem,  and  the  houses  of  the  kings  of  Judah,”  as 
to  be  defiled,  “because  of  all  the  houses  upon  whose 
roofs  they  have  burned  incense  unto  all  the  host  of 
heaven,  and  have  poured  out  drink-offerings  unto  other 
gods”  (Jer.  xix,  13).  In  this  prophet’s  time  the  people 
of  Judah  and  Jerusalem,  among  other  abominations, 
made  cakes  for  “the  queen  of  heaven,”  or  “the  worship 
of  heaven a different  form  justifying  the  latter  read- 
ing. The  usual  reading  is  T'zb’Z,  queen,  which  the 
Sept,  once  follow's,  the  Yulg.  always ; some  copies  give 

worship,  that  is,  “a  deity  or  goddess.”  The 
former  reading  seems  preferable,  and  the  context  in  two 
passages  in  Jeremiah  show's  that  an  abstract  sense  is 
not  admissible  (xliv,  17,  18,  19,  25).  In  Egypt,  the 
remnant  that  fled  after  the  murder  of  Gedaliah  wrere 
warned  by  the  prophet  to  abandon  those  idolatrous  prac- 
tices for  which  their  country  and  cities  had  been  deso- 
lated. The  men,  conscious  that  their  wives  had  burned 
incense  to  false  gods  in  Egypt,  declared  that  they  would 
certainly  burn  incense  and  pour  out  think-offerings  to 
the  queen  of  heaven,  as  they,  their  fathers,  their  kings, 
and  their  princes  had  done  in  a time  of  plenty,  asserting 
that  since  they  had  left  off  these  practices  they  had 
been  consumed  by  the  sword  and  by  famine : for  this  a 
fresh  doom  was  pronounced  upon  them  (ch.  xliv).  It  is 
very  difficult  to  conjecture  what  goddess  can  be  here 
meant : Ashtoreth  would  suit,  but  is  never  mentioned 
interchangeably;  the  moon  must  be  rejected  for  the 
same  reason.  Here  we  certainly  see  a strong  resem- 


IDOLATRY 


483 


IDOLATRY 


blance  to  Arab  idolatry,  which  was  wholly  composed  of 
cosmic  worship  and  of  fetishism,  and  in  which  the  man- 
sions of  the  moon  were  reverenced  on  account  of  their 
connection  with  seasons  of  rain.  This  system  of  cosmic 
worship  may  have  been  introduced  from  the  Nalathre- 
ans  or  Edomites  of  Petra,  from  the  Sabians,  or  from 
other  Arabs  or  Chakkeans.  See  Queen  of  Heaven. 

c.  Two  idols,  Gad,  or  Fortune,  and  Meni,  *13'2,  or 
Fate,  from  US'S,  he  or  it  divided , assigned , numbered,  are 
spoken  of  in  a single  passage  in  the  later  part  of  Isaiah 
(lxv,  1 1).  Gesenius,  depending  upon  the  theory  of  the 
post-Isaian  authorship  of  the  later  chapters  of  the  proph- 
et, makes  these  to  be  idols  worshipped  by  the  Jews  in 
Babylonia,  but  it  must  be  remarked  that  their  names 
are  not  traceable  in  Babylonian  and  Assyrian  mytholo- 
gy. Gesenius  has,  however,  following  Pococke  (Spec, 
/fist.  Arabum,  p.  93),  compared  Meni  with  Manah,  a 
goddess  of  the  pagan  Arabs,  worshipped  in  the  form  of 
a stone  between  Mekkeh  and  El-Medineh  by  the  tribes 
of  Iludheyl  and  Ivhuzaah.  But  El-Beydawi,  though  de- 
riving the  name  of  this  idol  from  the  root  incma , “ he 
cut,”  supposes  it  was  thus  called  because  victims  were 
slain  upon  it  (Comment,  in  Coran.  ed.  Fleischer,  p.  293). 
This  meaning  certainly  seems  to  disturb  the  idea  that 
the  two  idols  were  identical,  but  the  mention  of  the 
sword  and  slaughter  as  punishments  of  the  idolaters 
who  worshipped  Gad  and  Meni  is  not  to  be  forgotten. 
Gad  may  have  been  a Canaanitish  form  of  Baal,  if  we  are 
to  judge  from  the  geographical  name  Ilaal-gad  of  a 
place  at  the  foot  of  Mount  llermon  (Josh.  xi.  17  ; xii,  7 ; 
xiii,  5).  Perhaps  the  grammatical  form  of  Meni  may 
throw  some  light  upon  the  origin  of  this  idolatry.  The 
worship  of  both  idols  resembles  that  of  the  cosmic  di- 
vinities of  the  later  kings  of  Judah.  See  Meni. 

d.  In  Ezekiel's  vision  of  the  idolatries  of  Jerusalem 
he  beheld  a chamber  of  imagery  in  the  Temple  itself, 
having  “every  form  of  creeping  things,  and  abominable 
beasts,  and  [or  even~\  all  the  idols  of  the  house  of  Israel, 
portrayed  upon  the  wall  round  about,”  and  seventy  Is- 
raelitish  ciders  offering  incense  (Ezek.  viii,  7—1 2).  This 
is  so  exact  a description  of  an  Egyptian  sanctuary,  with 
the  idols  depicted  upon  its  walls,  dimly  lighted,  and 
filled  with  incense-offering  priests,  that  we  cannot  for  a 
moment  doubt  that  these  Jews  derived  from  Egypt 
their  fetishism,  for  such  this  special  worship  appears 
mainly,  if  not  wholly  to  have  been.  See  Imagerv, 

CHAMBER  OF. 

e.  In  the  same  vision  the  prophet  saw  women  weep- 
ing  for  Tammuz  (ver.  13, 14),  known  to  be  the  same  as 
Adonis,  from  whom  the  fourth  month  of  the  Syrian 
year  was  named.  This  worship  was.  probably  intro- 
duced by  Ahaz  from  Syria.  See  Tammuz. 

f The  image  of  jealousy,  3>"£0,  spoken  of  in 

the  same  passage,  which  was  placed  in  the  Temple,  has 
not  been  satisfactorily  explained.  The  meaning  may  only 
be  that  it  was  an  image  of  a false  god,  or  there  may  be 
a play  in  the  second  part  of  the  appellation  upon  the 
proper  name.  We  cannot,  however,  suggest  any  name 
that  migh  t be  thus  intended.  See  J ealousv,  Im  age  of. 

g.  The  brazen  serpent,  having  become  an  object  of 
idolatrous  worship,  was  destroyed  by  Ilezeldah  (2  Kings 
xviii,  4).  See  Brazen  Serpent. 

h.  Moloch-worship  ivas  not  only  celebrated  at  the 
high  place  Solomon  bad  made,  but  at  Toplieth,  in  the 
valley  of  the  sons  of  llinnom,  where  children  were  made 
to  pass  through  the  fire  to  the  Ammonitisli  abomination. 
This  place,  as  well  as  Solomon’s  altars,  Josiah  defiled, 
and  we  read  of  no  later  worship  of  Moloch,  Chemosh, 
and  Aslitoreth.  See  Molocii. 

i.  For  the  supposed  divinity  “iriX  of  Isa.  lxvi,  17 
(compare  Meier,  Dc  uno  deo  Assgriorum,  Helmst.  1734), 
see  Achao. 

The  new  population  placed  by  the  king  of  Assyria  in 
the  cities  of  Samaria  adopted  a strange  mixture  of  re- 
ligions. Terrified  at  the  destruction  by  lions  of  some 
of  tlieir  number,  they  petitioned  the  king  of  Assyria, 


I ard  an  Israelitisli  priest  was  sent  to  them.  They  then 
adopted  the  old  worship  at  high  places,  and  still  served 
j their  own  idols.  The  people  of  Babylon  made  Succoth- 
l benoth;  the  Cuthites,  Nergal;  the  llamatliites,  Ashima; 
the  Avites,  Nibliaz  and  Tartak ; and  the  people  of  Se- 
pharvaim  burned  their  children  to  their  native  gods, 
Adrammelech  and  Anammclec'h.  Nergal  is  a well- 
known  Babylonian  idol,  and  the  occurrence  of  the  cle- 
ment nieleck  (king)  in  the  names  of  the  Molechs  of  Se- 
pharvaim  is  very  remarkable  (2  Kings  xvii,  24-41). — 
Kitto. 

4.  The  Babylonian  Exile  was  an  effectual  rebuke  or 
the  national  sin.  It  is  true  that  even  during  the  cap- 
tivity the  devotees  of  false  worship  plied  their  craft  as 
prophets  and  diviners  (Jer.  xxix,  8 ; Ezek.  xiii),  and 
the  Jews  who  tied  to  Egypt  carried  with  them  recollec- 
tions of  the  material  prosperity  which  attended  their 
idolatrous  sacrifices  in  Judah,  and  to  the  neglect  of 
which  they  attributed  their  exiled  condition  (Jer.  xliv, 
17,  18).  One  of  the  first  difficulties,  indeed,  with  which 
Ezra  had  to  contend,  and  which  brought  him  wellnigh 

j to  despair,  was  the  haste  with  which  his  countrymen 
j took  them  foreign  wives  of  the  people  of  the  land,  and 
followed  them  in  all  their  abominations  (Ezra  ix).  The 
priests  and  rulers,  to  whom  he  looked  for  assistance  in 
liis  great  enterprise,  were  among  the  first  to  fall  away 
(Ezra  ix,  2;  x,  18;  Neh.  vi,  17,  18;  xiii,  23).  Still,  the 
post -exilian  prophets  speak  of  idolatry  as  an  evil  of  the 
past,  Zechariah  foretelling  the  time  when  the  very 
names  of  the  false  gods  would  be  forgotten  (xiii,  2).  In 
Malachi  we  see  that  a cold  formalism  was  already  the 
national  sin,  and  such  was  ever  after  the  case  with  the 
Jewish  people.  The  Babylonian  Exile,  therefore,  may 
be  said  to  have  purified  the  Jews  from  their  idolatrous 
tendencies.  How  this  great  change  was  wrought  does 
not  appear.  Partly,  no  doubt,  it  was  due  to  the  pious 
examples  of  Ezra  and  Nehemiah ; partly,  perhaps,  to 
the  Persian  contempt  for  the  lower  kinds  of  idolatry, 
which  insured  a respect  for  the  Hebrew  religion  on  the 
part  of  the  government ; partly  to  the  sight  of  the  ful- 
filment of  God’s  predicted  judgments  upon  the  idolatrous 
nations  which  the  Jews  had  either  sought  as  allies  or 
feared  as  enemies.  See  Exile. 

5.  Years  passed  by,  and  the  names  of  the  idols  of  Ca- 
naan had  been  forgotten,  when  the  Hebrews  were  as- 
sailed by  a new  danger.  Greek  idolatry  under  Alexan- 
der and  his  successors  was  practised  throughout  the 
civilized  world.  The  conquests  of  Alexander  in  Asia 
caused  Greek  influence  to  be  extensively  felt,  and  Greek 
idolatry  to  be  first  tolerated  and  then  practised  by  the 
Jews  (I  Macc.  i,  43-50,  54).  Some  place-hunting  Jews 
were  base  enough  to  adopt  it.  At  first  the  Greek 
princes  who  ruled  Palestine  wisely  forbore  to  interfere 
with  the  Hebrew  religion.  The  politic  earlier  Ptole- 
mies even  encouraged  it;  but  when  the  country  had  fall- 
en into  the  hands  of  the  Seleueidce,  Antioclnis  Epipha- 
nes,  reversing  his  father’s  policy  of  toleration,  seized 
Jerusalem,  set  up  an  idol-altar  to  Jupiter  in  the  Temple 
itself,  and  forbade  the  observance  of  the  law.  Weakly 
supported  by  a miserable  faction,  he  had  to  depend 
wholly  upon  his  military  power.  The  attempt  of  An- 
tiochus  to  establish  this  form  of  worship  was  vigorously 
resisted  by  Mattathias  (I  Mace,  ii,  23-26),  who  was 
joined  in  his  rebellion  by  the  Assidajans  (ver.  42),  and 
destroyed  the  altars  at  which  the  king  commanded 
them  to  sacrifice  (1  Macc.  ii.  25,  45).  The  erection  of 
synagogues  has  been  assigned  as  a reason  for  the  com- 
parative purity  of  the  Jewish  worship  after  the  Captiv- 
ity (Prideaux,  Conn,  i,  o74d,  while  another  cause  has 
been  discovered  in  the  hatred  for  images  acquired  by 
the  Jews  in  their  intercourse  with  the  Persians.  The 
Maccabajan  revolt,  small  in  its  beginning,  had  the  na- 
tional heart  on  its  side,  and,  after  a long  and  varied 
struggle,  achieved  more  than  the  nation  had  ever  before 
effected  since  the  days  of  the  Judges.  Thenceforward 
idolatry  was  to  the  Jew  the  religion  of  his  enemies,  and 
naturally  made  no  perverts. 


IDOLATRY 


484 


IDOLATRY 


6.  The  early  Christians  were  brought  into  contact  | enormity,  and  greater  moral  guilt.  In  the  figurative 
with  idolaters  when  the  Gospel  was  preached  among  : language  of  the  prophets,  the  relation  between  Jehovah 
the  Gentiles,  and  it  became  necessary  to  enact  regula-  | and  his  people  is  represented  as  a marriage  bond  (Isa. 


tions  for  preventing  scandal  by  their  being  involved  in 
pagan  practices,  when  joining  in  the  private  meals  and  I 
festivities  of  the  heathen  (1  Cor.  viii).  But  the  Gentile 
converts  do  not  seem  to  have  been  in  any  danger  of  re- 
verting to  idolatry,  and  the  cruel  persecutions  they  un-  1 
derwent  did  not  tend  to  lead  them  back  to  a religion 
which  its  more  refined  votaries  despised.  It  is,  howev- 
er, not  impossible  that  many  who  had  been  originally 
educated  as  idolaters  did  not,  on  professing  Christianity, 
really  abandon  all  their  former  superstitions,  and  that 
we  may  thus  explain  the  very  early  outbreak  of  many 
customs  and  opinions  not  sanctioned  in  the  N.T. — Kitto; 
Smith. 

V.  Eihical  Views  respecting  Idolatry. — That  this  is  a 
cardinal  sin,  and,  indeed,  the  highest  form,  if  not  essen- 
tial principle  of  all  sin,  as  aiming  a direct  blow  at  the 
throne  of  God  itself,  is  evident  from  its  prohibition  in 
the  very  fore-front  of  the  Decalogue.  Hence  the  tena- 
city with  which  the  professors  of  all  true  religion  in  ev- 
ery age  have  opposed  it,  under  every  disguise  and  at 
whatever  cost,  it  has  always  and  naturally  been  the 
associate  of  polytheism,  and  those  corrupt  forms  of 
Christianity,  such  as  the  Roman  and  Greek  Churches, 
which  have  endeavored  to  apologize  for  the  adoration 
of  pictures,  images,  etc.,  on  the  flimsy  pretext  that  it  is 
not  the  inanimate  objects  themselves  which  are  revered, 
but  only  the  beings  thus  represented,  are  but  imitators 
in  this  of  the  sophistry  of  certain  refined  speculators 
among  the  grosser  heathen,  e.  g.  of  Egypt,  Greece,  etc., 
who  put  forth  similar  claims.  >Scc  I m auk-woks! t ir. 

Three  things  are  condemned  in  Scripture  as  idolatry: 
1.  The  worshipping  of  a false  God;  2.  the  worshipping 
of  the  true  God  through  an  image ; 8.  the  indulgence 
of  those  passions  which  draw  the  sold  away  from  God, 
e.  g.  covetousness,  lust,  etc.  The  Israelites  were  guilty 
of  the  first  when  they  bowed  the  knee  to  Baal;  of  the 
second  when  they  set  up  the  golden  calves;  and  both 
Israelites  and  Christians  are  often  guilty  of  the  third. 

1.  Light  in  which  Idolatry  was  regarded  in  the  Mosaic 
Code , and  the  jienal ties  with  which  it  teas  visited. — If  one 
main  object  of  the  Hebrew  polity  was  to  teaeh  the  uni- 
ty of  God,  the  extermination  of  idolatry  was  but  a sub- 
ordinate end.  Jehovah,  the  God  of  the  Israelites,  was 
the  civil  head  of  the  state.  lie  was  the  theocratic  king 
of  the  people,  who  had  delivered  them  from  bondage, 
and  to  whom  they  had  taken  a willing  oath  of  allegi- 
ance. They  had  entered  into  a solemn  league  and  cov- 
enant with  him  as  their  chosen  king  (eomp.  1 Sam.  viii, 
7),  by  whom  obedience  was  requited  with  temporal 
blessings,  and  rebellion  with  temporal  punishment.  This 
original  contract  of  the  Hebrew  government,  as  it  has 
been  termed,  is  contained  in  Exod.  xix,  3-8 ; xx,  2-5; 
Dcut.  xxxix,  10-xxx;  the  blessings  promised  to  obedi- 
ence are  enumerated  in  Dent,  xxviii,  1-14,  and  the  wither- 
ing curses  on  disobedience  in  verses  15-G8.  That  this 
covenant  was  strictly  insisted  on  it  needs  but  slight  ac- 
quaintance with  Hebrew  history  to  perceive.  Often 
broken  and  often  renewed  on  the  part  of  the  people 
(Judg.  x,  10;  2 Chron.  xv,  12,  13;  Neh.  ix,  38),  it  was 
kept  with  unwavering  constancy  on  the  part  of  Jeho- 
vah. To  their  kings  he  stood  in  the  relation,  so  to 
speak,  of  a feudal  superior : they  were  his  representa- 
tives upon  earth,  and  with  them,  as  with  the  people  be- 
fore, his  covenant  was  made  (1  Kings  iii,  14;  xi,  IT). 
Idolatry,  therefore,  to  an  Israelite  was  a state  offence  (1 
Sam.  xv,  23),  a political  crime  of  the  gravest  character, 
high-treason  against  the  majesty  of  his  king.  It  was  a 
transgression  of  the  covenant  (Deut.  xvii,  2),  “ the  evil” 
pre-eminently  in  the  eyes  of  Jehovah  (1  Kings  xxi,  25, 
opp.  to  “1  “ the  right,”  2 Chron.  xxvii,  2).  But  it 

was  mueli  more  than  all  this.  While  the  idolatry  of 
foreign  nations  is  stigmatized  merely  as  an  abomina- 
tion in  the  sight  of  God,  which  called  for  his  vengeance, 
the  sin  of  the  Israelites  is  regarded  as  of  more  glaring 


liv,  5 ; Jer.  iii,  14),  and  the  worship  of  false  gods,  with 
all  its  accompaniments  (Lev.  xx,  5G),  becomes  then  the 
greatest  of  social  wrongs  (Hos.  ii ; Jer.  iii,  etc.).  This 
is  beautifully  brought  out  in  Hos.  ii,  1G,  where  the  hea- 
then name  Baali,  my  master,  which  the  apostate  Israel 
has  been  accustomed  to  apply  to  her  foreign  possessor, 
is  contrasted  with  Ishi,  my  man,  my  husband,  the  na- 
tive word  which  she  is  to  use  when  restored  to  her 
rightful  husband,  Jehovah.  Much  of  the  significance 
of  this  figure  was  unquestionably  due  to  the  impurities 
of  idolaters,  with  whom  such  corruption  was  of  no  mere- 
ly spiritual  character  (Exod.  xxxiv,  1G;  Numb,  xxv,  1, 
2,  etc.),  but  manifested  itself  in  the  grossest  and  most 
revolting  forms  (Rom.  i,  2G-32). 

Regarded  in  a moral  aspect,  false  gods  are  called 
“stumbling-blocks”  (Ezek.  xiv,  3),  “lies”  (Amos  ii,  4; 
Rom.  i,  25),  “ horrors”  or  “ frights”  (1  Kings  xv,  13  ; Jer. 
1,  38),  “abominations”  (Deut.  xxix,  17 ; xxxii,  1G ; 1 
Kings  xi,  5;  2 Kings  xxiii,  13),  “guilt”  (abstract  for 
concrete,  Amos  viii,  14,  T\-£'Z'&,ashma,k;  comp. 2 Chron. 
xxix,  18.  perhaps  with  a play  on  Ashima,  2 Kings  xvii, 
30) ; and  with  a profound  sense  of  the  degradation  conse- 
quent upon  their  worship,  they  are  characterized  by  the 
prophets,  whose  mission  it  was  to  warn  the  people 
against  them  (Jer.  xliv,  4),  as  “shame”  (Jer.  xi,  13; 
Hos.  ix,  10).  As  considered  with  reference  to  Jehovah, 
they  are  “other  gods”  (Josh,  xxiv,  2,  1G),  “strange 
gods”  (Deut.  xxxii,  1G),  “ new  god-s”  (Jutlg.  v,  8),  “dev- 
ils— not  God”  (Deut.  xxxii,  17;  1 Cor.  x,  20,  21);  and,  as 
denoting  their  foreign  origin,  “gods  of  the  foreigner” 
(Josh,  xxiv,  14, 15).  Their  powerlessness  is  indicated 
by  describing  them  as  “gods  that  cannot  save”  (Isa. 
xlv,  20),“  that  made  not  the  heavens”  (Jer.  x,  11), 
“nothing”  (Isa.  xli,  24;  1 Cor.  viii,  4), “wind  and  emp- 
tiness” (Isa.  xli,  29),  “ vanities  of  the  heathen”  (Jer.  xiv, 
22 ; Acts  xiv,  15) ; and  yet,  while  their  deity  is  denied, 
their  personal  existence  seems  to  have  been  acknowl- 
edged (Kurtz,  Gesch.  d.  A. B.  ii,  8G.  etc.),  though  not  in 
the  same  manner  in  which  the  pretensions  of  local  dei- 
ties were  reciprocally  recognised  by  the  heathen  (1 
Kings  xx,  23,  28 ; 2 Kings  xvii,  26).  Other  terms  of 
contempt  are  employed  with  reference  to  idols, 
elilim  (Lev.  xix,  4),  and  gillulim  (Deut.  xxix, 

17),  to  which  different  meanings  have  been  assigned, 
and  many  which  indicate  ceremonial  uncleanness.  See 
Idol. 

Idolatry,  therefore,  being  from  one  point  of  view  a po- 
litical offence,  could  be  punished  without  infringement 
cf  civil  rights.  No  penalties  were  attached  to  mere 
opinions.  For  aught  we  know,  theological  speculation 
may  have  been  as  rife  among  the  Hebrews  as  in  mod- 
ern times,  though  such  was  not  the  tendency  of  the  She- 
mitic  mind.  It  was  not,  however,  such  speeidations, 
heterodox  though  they  might  be,  but  overt  acts  of 
idolatry,  which  were  made  the  subjects  of  legislation 
(Miehaelis,  Laics  of  Moses,  § 245,  24G).  The  first  and 
second  commandments  are  directed  against  idolatry  of 
every  form.  Individuals  and  communities  were  equal- 
ly amenable  to  the  rigorous  code.  The  individual  of- 
fender was  devoted  to  destruction  (Exod.  xxii,  20)  ; his 
nearest  relatives  were  not  only  bound  to  denounce  him 
and  deliver  him  up  to  punishment  (Deut.  xiii,  2-10),  but 
their  hands  were  to  strike  the  first  blow  when,  on  the 
evidence  of  two  witnesses  at  least,  he  was  stoned  (Deut. 
xvii,  2-5).  To  attempt  to  seduce  others  to  false  wor- 
ship was  a crime  of  equal  enormity  (Dent,  xiii,  6-10). 
An  idolatrous  nation  shared  a similar  fate.  No  faets  are 
more  strongly  declared  in  the  Old  Test,  than  that  the 
extermination  of  the  Canaanites  was  the  punishment  of 
their  idolatry  (Exod.  xxxiv,  15, 1G;  Deut.  vii;  xii,  29- 
31 ; xx,  17),  and  that  the  calamities  of  the  Israelites 
were  due  to  the  same  cause  (Jer.  ii,  17).  A city  guilty 
of  idolatry  was  looked  upon  as  a cancer  of  the  state ; it 


IDOLATRY 


485 


IDOLATRY 


was  considered  to  be  in  rebellion,  and  treated  according 
to  the  laws  of  war.  Its  inhabitants  and  all  their  cattle 
were  put  to  death.  No  spoil  was  taken,  but  everything 
it  contained  was  burnt  with  itself;  nor  was  it  allowed 
to  be  rebuilt  (Deut.xiii,  13-18 ; Josh,  vi,  2(5).  Said  lost 
his  kingdom,  Aelian  his  life,  and  Iliel  his  family  for 
transgressing  this  law  (1  Sam.  xv;  Josh,  vii ; 1 Kings 
xvi,  34).  The  silver  and  gold  with  which  the  idols 
were  covered  were  accursed  (Dent,  vii,  25,  26).  Not 
only  wrere  the  Israelites  forbidden  to  serve  the  gods 
of  Canaan  (Exod.  xxiii,  24),  but  even  to  mention  their 
names,  that  is,  to  call  upon  them  in  prayer  or  any  form 
of  worship  (Exod.  xxiii,  13 ; Josh,  xxiii,  7).  On  taking 
possession  of  the  land  they  were  to  obliterate  all  traces 
of  the  existing  idolatry;  statues,  altars,  pillars,  idol- 
temples,  every  person  and  every  thing  connected  with  it, 
were  to  be  swept  away  (Exod.  xxiii,  24, 32 ; xxxiv,  13 ; 
Dent,  vii,  5,  25;  xii,  1-3;  xx,  17),  and  the  name  and 
worship  of  the  idols  blotted  out.  Such  were  the  pre- 
cautions taken  by  the  framer  of  the  Mosaic  code  to  pre- 
serve the  worship  of  Jehovah,  the  true  God,  in  its  puri- 
ty, Of  the  manner  in  which  his  descendants  have 
‘•put  a fence”  about  “the  law”  with  reference  to  idola- 
try, many  instances  will  be  found  in  Maimonides  ( De 
Idol.).  They  were  prohibited  from  using  vessels,  scar- 
let garments,  bracelets,  or  rings,  marked  with  the  sign 
of  the  sun,  moon,  or  dragon  (ib.  vii,  10) ; trees  planted  or 
stones  erected  for  idol-worship  were  forbidden  (viii,  5, 
10) ; and,  to  guard  against  the  possibility  of  contamina- 
tion, if  the  image  of  an  idol  were  found  among  other 
images  intended  for  ornament,  they  wrere  all  to  be  cast 
into  the  Dead  Sea  (vii,  11). — Smith.  See  Anathema. 

2.  New -Test.  Definitions  on  the  Subject.  — (1.)  The 
name  “idolater”  is  given  not  only  to  persons  who  wor- 
ship heathen  gods,  but  also  such  as  worship  idols  of  their 
own.  Acts  xvii,  16  : “ Now,  while  Paul  waited  for  them 
at  Athens,  his  spirit  was  stirred  within  him  when  he  saw 
the  city  wholly  given  to  idolatry.”  1 Cor.  v,  10,  11: 

“ Yet  not  altogether  with  the  fornicators  of  this  world, 
or  with  the  covetous,  or  extortioners,  or  with  idolaters; 
for  then  must  ye  needs  go  out  of  the  world.  But  now  I 
have  written  unto  you  not  to  keep  company,  if  any  man 
that  is  called  a brother  be  a fornicator,  or  covetous,  or 
an  idolater , or  a railer,  or  a drunkard,  or  an  extortioner : 
with  such  a one  no  not  to  eat.”  1 Cor.  vi,  9:  “Know 
ye  not  that  the  unrighteous  shall  not  inherit  the  king- 
dom of  God  V Be  not  deceived ; neither  fornicators,  nor  j 
idolaters.”  1 Cor.  x,  7 : “ Neither  be  ye  idolaters , as  , 
were  some  of  them.”  Iiev.  xxi,  8 : “ But  the  fearful  ' 
....  and  idolaters  ....  shall  have  their  part  in  the 
lake  which  burneth  with  fire  and  brimstone.” 

(2.)  'I’he  term  idolatry  is  figuratively  used  to  desig- 
nate coretousness,  which  takes  Mammon  for  its  god 
(Matt,  vi,  24  ; Luke  xvi,  13).  Col.  iii,  5 : “ Mortify, 
therefore,  your  members  which  are  upon  the  earth  ; for- 
nication, uncleanness,  inordinate  affection,  evil  concu- 
piscence, and  covetousness,  which  is  idolatry .”  Hence 
it  is  said  (Ephes.  v,  5),  “ For  this  ye  know,  that  no  whore- 
monger, nor  unclean  person,  nor  covetous  man,  who  is  an 
idolater,  hath  any  inheritance  in  the  kingdom  of  Christ 
and  of  God.”  St.  Paul  further  designates  all  evil  concu- 
piscence in  general  by  the  name  of  idolatry;  e. g.  Phil, 
iii,  19:  “Whose  end  is  destruction,  whose  god  is  their 
belly,  and  whose  glory  is  in  their  shame,  who  mind 
earthly  things ;”  comp.  Bom.  xvi,  18,  “ For  they  that  are 
such  serve  not  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  but  their  own 
belly ; and  by  good  words  and  fair  speeches  deceive  the 
hearts  of  the  simple.”  The  same  is  said  (2  Tim.  iii,  4) 
of  those  who  are  “lovers  of  pleasure  more  than  lovers 
of  God.”  According  to  Rom.  i,  21,  idolatry  takes  its  , 
source  in  the  impurity  of  the  will,  or  in  the  heart,  not  in 
the  mind;  it  is  consequently  a result  of  the  abuse  of  , 
human  free  agency.  It  is  said,  in  the  above-mentioned  \ 
passage,  “ Because  that  when  they  knew  God  they  glo-  1 
rifiedhim  not  as  God,  neither  were  thankful,  but  became  I 
vain  in  their  imaginations,  and  their  foolish  heart  was 
darkened.”  The  not  glorifying  and  the  not  praising 


manifest  the  badness  of  the  will  or  heart.  In  the  Book 
of  Wisdom  (xiv,  14)  it  is  said  that  idolatry  came  into  the 
world  through  the  ••idle  vanity  of  man.”  Idolatry  and 
sin  have  consequently  the  same  origin,  namely,  the  mis- 
use of  moral  freedom.  They  therefore  assist  each  other, 
yet,  at  the  same  time,  present  separately  a difficult  prob- 
lem for  reason  to  understand.  To  some  extent  idolatry 
may  be  considered  as  the  theoretical,  and  sin  as  the  prac- 
tical effect  of  evil,  which,  in  its  complete  manifestation, 
embraces  both  the  mind  and  the  heart,  but  takes  its 
source  exclusively  in  the  latter;  for  all  evil  results  from 
the  will,  by  its  own  free  action,  separating  itself  from  the 
divine  will. — Krehl,  Ifandworterbuch  des  X.  T.  p.  12. 

3.  In  the  later  Christian  Church.— The  fathers  gener- 
ally define  idolatry,  from  Rom.  i,  23,  as  a “ taking  away 
from  God  the  glory  which  belongs  to  him”  (Tertull.  I)e 
Idololatria,  c.  11),  or  “divine  honor  given  to  another” 
(Cyprian ; Hilar.  Diac.) ; sometimes,  also,  as  a transfer- 
ring of  prayer  from  the  Creator  to  the  creature  (Gregor. 
Naz.).  Christian  writers  in  general  had  no  doubt  on 
the  subject  (see  Finnicus  Maternus,  De  errore  prof  ana- 
rum  religionum,  ed.  M (inter,  c.  1-5).  When  Clement  of 
Alexandria  regards  astonishment  at  the  light  emitted 
hy  the  heavenly  bodies,  thankfulness  towards  the  in- 
ventor of  agriculture,  consciousness  of  sin,  a personifica- 
tion of  effects,  etc.,  as  the  origin  of  myths,  he  does  not 
mean  to  consider  them  as  the  original  source  of  idolatry, 
but  only  of  its  contemporary  forms.  From  the  primi- 
tive worship  of  the  heavens  as  the  abode  of  the  invisible 
God,  according  to  the  oldest  traditions,  the  worship  of 
the  different  nations,  as  they  became  disseminated  over 
the  globe,  and  divided  geographically  and  otherwise, 
turned  to  other  symbols.  Again,  nations  preserving  the 
remembrance,  and,  so  to  speak,  living  under  the  influence 
of  their  founders  and  heroes,  as  soon  as  they  forgot  the 
true  God,  made  these  the  objects  of  their  veneration  and 
worship.  Thus  they  came  to  worship  their  progenitors 
(as  in  China)  and  their  heroes,  which  latter  worship  is 
by  some  (Boss,  for  instance)  considered  as  the  only  source 
of  mythology.  How  from  thence  they  passed  to  the 
worship  of  symbolic  animals,  thence  to  anthropomor- 
phism, and  finally  to  the  adoration  of  statues  as  images 
of  the  deity,  has  been  best  explained  by  Creuzer  in  his 
Symbnlik  u.  Mytliologie  el.  alien  Vollcer  (3d  edit,  i,  5 sq.). 
The  fathers  did  not  fail  to  perceive  the  influence  which 
the  original  tradition  of  the  true  God  had  on  the.  devel- 
opment of  the  symbolism  and  myths  of  the  heathen  re- 
ligious systems.  Lactantius  (De  falsa  relig.  i,  11)  con- 
siders the  consensus  gentium  in  the  belief  in  gods  as  a 
proof  that  they  are  touched  by  them.  The  early  Prot- 
estant theologians  had  especially  to  contend  against  nat- 
uralism, which  asserted  that  “the  recognition  of  one  su- 
preme God  is  innate  in  man,”  and  denied  our  knowledge 
of  the  unity  of  God  being  due  either  to  revelation  or  to 
tradition,  since  it  is  found  at  the  foundation  of  the  learn- 
ed polytheistic  systems.  They  considered  all  further 
developments  in  these  systems  as  resulting  from  inten- 
tional additions  made  in  support  of  their  hierarchy  by 
an  interested  priesthood,  or  by  riders  from  motives  of 
policy  (see  Herbert  of  Cherburv,  De  relig.  gent  ilium, 
p.  6, 168  sq.).  These  views  were  ably  opposed  by  Ger- 
hard Jo.  Vossius  (De  ilieologia  geniili  et  physiologiu 
Christiana,  i,  3 sq.),  Van  Dale  (De  origine  et  progressu 
idololatricp,  i,  2,3),  Selden  (De  diis  Syris  [Lips.  1662],  p. 
25  sq.).  They  however  meant,  as  did  also  Farmer  ( The 
general  Prevalence  of  the  Worship  of  Human  Spirits 
in  the  Ancient  Heathen  nations  [Lonel.  1783]),  that  the 
daemons,  whether  evil  spirits  or  departed  human  souls, 
had  very  early  become  the  objects  of  veneration  on  the 
part  of  the  heathen.  The  Jews  came  gradually  to  the 
idea  that  the  heathen  deities  were  not  nonentities,  as  the 
prophets  had  stated  them  to  be,  but  really  existing  evil 
spirits,  a view  which  was  continued  by  the  fathers,  es- 
pecially in  relation  to  the  so-called  oracles.  The  earliest 
German  theologians  also  admitted  this  doctrine  of  a wor- 
ship of  d lemons.  This,  however,  was  gradually  discarded 
after  the  researches  of  8.  J.  Baurogarten  ( Gesch . d.  Re- 


IDOLATRY 


486 


IDUMAEA 


ligionsparteien,  p.  176  sq.),  and  idolatry  is  now  generally 
considered  as  the  result  of  a sophisticated  tradition. 
Rationalism,  based  on  Pelagian  principles,  either  em- 
braced the  views  of  the  naturalists,  or  else  those  of 
Heyne,  J.  H.  Boss,  etc.,  who  maintain,  the  former  that 
the'  myths  and  idolatry  were  either  the  natural  conse- 
quences of  historical  events  or  the  peculiar  garb  of  philo- 
sophical ideas  (historical  and  philosophical  mythicism), 
while  the  latter  derives  idolatry  partly  from  the  univer- 
sal wisdom  whose  higher  thoughts  assumed  that  form  in 
order  to  be  the  more  readily  appreciated  by  the  people, 
and  partly  from  the  interests  of  the  priesthood ; he  con- 
siders, also,  the  tradition  of  real  heroes  as  an  abundant 
source.  Others  (like  Lobeek,  etc.)  see  in  the  mythology 
of  the  heathen  but  a childish  play  of  the  imagination. 
But  the  opinion  which  most  generally  obtained  is  that 
behind  the  outward  form  of  mythology  is  hidden  a real 
philosophical  or  religious  idea,  and  that  personalities 
and  historical  facts  are  only  erroneously  introduced  into 
it  (Buttmann ; G.  Hermann).  Finally,  others  considered 
idolatry  in  its  full  development  as  the  result  of  the  in- 
tentional manoeuvres  of  the  priesthood  (so  Fr.  Creuzer, 
in  the  first  editions  of  his  Synibolik),  or  of  a hierarchical  | 
system  of  nature,  which  amounts  nearly  to  the  same  (K. 
O.  M tiller,  Prolegom.  zu  finer  wissensch  aft  lichen  Mytho- 
lor/ie , p.  816-344).  The  latter  considers  the  very  origin 
and  nature  of  the  gods,  and  consequently  of  idolatry,  as 
the  result  of  an  unconscious  popular  necessity,  which 
from  the  first  was  connected  or  identified  with  illusion, 
instead  of  remaining  a true  and  special  idea.  From 
this  view — whose  only  defect  is  its  too  great  disregard 
of  the  original  religion — it  is  easy  to  come  to  those 
which  govern  the  newer  systems  of  religious  philosophy, 
such  as  are  upheld  by  Hegel  ( Yorlesnngen  U.  Religions- 
philosophie'),  according  to  which  religion  has  received  a 
steady  development  from  an  earthly  basis,  so  that  idol- 
atry’ was  but  one  of  its  first  forms,  and  not  at  all  an  es- 
trangement from  God,  but  a necessary  part  of  the  prog- 
ress towards  him.  This  view  of  it  completely  makes 
away  with  idolatry  by  the  presumed  connection  of  all 
religions  arriving  by  successive  developments  at  abso- 
lute religion.  This  view  is  supported  by  Hinrichs  ( 1 ). 
Religion  im  inner n Verlidltnisse  z.  Wissensch  aft  [lleidelb. 
182 i J,p.  141  sq.)  and  Kraft  ( D.Religionen  uller  Volker  in 
2)hilosophischer  Darstellung  [Stuttg.  1848]).  Feuerbach 
and  other  extreme  Rationalists  even  consider  religion  it- 
self as  a sickly  ideal  phenomenon  in  human  life. 

We  must  rank  under  idolatry  all  adoration  not  ad- 
dressed to  the  one  invisible  God  of  the  Bible,  or  such 
adoration  of  him  as  is  rendered  in  any  manner  not  con- 
forming to  the  revelations  of  the  Bible.  It  results  part- 
ly from  additions  and  the  influence  of  the  world,  partly 
from  the  original  traditional  command  to  seek  God, 
which  seeking,  when  unaided  by  him  (in  revelation), 
ends  in  error,  so  that,  unconsciously,  it  is  worldly  exist- 
ence that  is  apprehended  instead  and  in  the  place  of  God. 
The  mode  of  this  apprehension  varies  in  different  na- 
tions, according  to  their  geographical,  historical,  and  in- 
tellectual circumstances,  and  may  degenerate  into  the 
adoration  of  the  most  vain  and  arbitrary  objects  (fetish- 
es) which  priests  or  sorcerers  may  set  up.  Between  the 
original  symbolic  and  the  most  abject  idolatry  there  are 
various  stages.  While  the  majority  of  the  heathen  are 
either  on  the  brink  or  in  the  midst  of  fetishism,  the  more 
enlightened  part  look  upon  the  idols  only  as  symbols, 
sometimes  of  several  deities,  and  sometimes  of  one  God. 

Idolatry  was  formerly  considered  as  divided  into  two 
distinct  classes,  real  and  comparative;  the  former  was 
absolute  polytheism — the  belief  in  the  real  divinity  of 
the  images — while  the  latter  was  either  (Baumgarten) 
the  worship  of  the  several  deities  as  subordinate  to  one, 
or  (G.  11.  Vossius)  the  considering  of  the  images  wor- 
shipped as  mere  symbols  of  the  invisible  God.  In  Col. 
iii,  5 we  find  a metaphorical  use  made  of  the  word  idol- 
atry to  express  undue  attachment  to  earthly  possessions 
and  advantages.  The  same  name  has  also  been  given, 
with  good  reason,  to  the  use  made  of  images  in  the 


Roman  and  Greek  Churches. — Herzog,  Real-Eneyklop. 
s.  v.  Abgdtterei.  On  this  last  point,  see  Mariolatry  ; 
Saixt- worship,  etc. 

Idu'el  (’I^oui/Xoc),  the  second  named  of  the  lead- 
ing Jews  sent  by  Ezra  to  procure  the  aid  of  the  priests 
in  the  return  from  exile  (1  Esd.  viii,  43) ; evidently  the 
Ariel  (q.  v.)  of  the  Hebrew  text  (Ezra  viii,  16). 

Idumse'a  (T^ojigcu'a),the  Gr.form  of  the  lleb.name 
Edom , as  found  in  the  Sept.,  the  N.  Test.,  and  Josephus. 
According  to  Josephus  (.4 nt.W,  1,1), however, it  is  only  a 
more  agreeable  mode  of  pronouncing  what  would  other- 
wise be  'A fidipa  (comp.  Jerome,  on  Ezek.  xxv,  12).  In 
the  Sept,  we  sometimes  meet  with  ’Ecw/t,  but  more  gen- 
erally with  ’]£o vpata  (the  people  being  called  ’Icou- 
pcuoi),  which  is  the  uniform  orthography  in  the  Apoc-  ■ 
rypha  (1  Macc.  iv,  15,  29,  61  ; v,  3;  vi,  81 ; 2 Macc.  xii, 
32),  as  well  as  in  Mark  iii,  8,  the  only  passage  in  the  N. 
T.  where  it  occurs.  Our  Auth.  Vers,  has  in  three  or  four 
places  (Isa.  xxxiv,  5, 6 ; Ezek.  xxxv.  15 ; xxxvi,  5)  sub- 
stituted for  Edom  “ Idumaea,”  which  is  the  name  em- 
ployed by  the  writers  of  Greece  and  Rome,  though  it  is 
to  be  noted  that  they,  as  well  as  Josephus,  include  un- 
der that  name  the  south  of  Palestine,  and  sometimes 
Palestine  itself,  because  a large  portion  of  that  country 
came  into  possession  of  the  Edomites  of  later  times. 

The  Heb.  CliSl,  Edom,  as  the  name  of  the  people,  is 
masculine  (Numb,  xxii,  20) ; as  the  name  of  the  coun- 
try, feminine  (Jer.  xlix,  17).  We  often  meet  with  the 
phrase  EHX  Erets-Edom,  “the  Land  of  Edom,” 

and  once  with  the  poetic  form  1TT1.’,  Sedeh-Edom , 

“ the  Field  of  Edom”  (Judg.  v,  4).  The  inhabitants  are 
sometimes  styled  C1K  "22,  Beney-Edom,  “ the  Children 
of  Edom,”  and  poetically  “2,  Bath-Edom , “ the 

Daughter  of  Edom”  (Lam.  iv,  21,  22).  A single  person 
was  called  Adomi , “an  Edomite”  (Dent,  xxiii, 

8),  of  which  the  feminine  Adomith,  occurs  in  1 

Kings  xi,  1. 

1.  ' Origin  of  the  Xame. — The  name  was  derived  from 
Isaac’s  son  Edom,  otherwise  called  Esau,  the  elder  twin- 
brother  of  Jacob.  See  Esau.  It  signifies  red,  and 
seems  first  to  have  been  suggested  by  bis  appearance  at 
his  birth,  when  “he  came  out  all  red,"  i.  c.  covered  with 
red  hair  (Gen.  xxv,  25),  and  it  was  afterwards  more  for- 
mally and  permanently  imposed  on  him  on  account  of 
his  unworthy  disposal  of  his  birthright  for  a mess  of 
red  lentiles  (Gen.  xxv,  30):  “And  Esau  said  to  Jacob, 
Feed  me,  I pray  thee,  from  the  red,  that  red  (B“2tlT”|73 
fTitl  CT2<“),  for  I am  faint;  therefore  was  his  name 
called  Red"  (Edom ; siljt).  In  the  East  it  has  always 
been  usual  for  a chief  either  to  give  his  name  to  the 
country  which  he  conquers,  or  over  which  he  rules,  or 
to  take  a name  from  it.  Esau,  during  the  life  of  his 
father,  seized  the  moimtainons  region  occupied  by  the 
llorites.  He  had  two  names ; but  one  of  them  was  pe- 
culiarly applicable  to  the  newly  - acquired  territory. 
The  mountains  of  Seir  were  remarkable  for  their  reddish 
color;  hence,  doubtless,  the  name  Edom,  “red,”  was 
given  to  them.  Esau  is  called  “ the  father  of  Edom,” 
giving  to  it  his  name  and  ruling  over  it  (Gen.  xxxvi, 
43) ; and  the  country,  in  a very  few  cases,  is  also  called 
1 “the  mount  of  Esau”  (Obad.  8,  9,  19). 

The  original  name  of  the  coimtry  was  Mount  Sei?-, 
and  it  was  probably  so  called  from  Seir,  the  progenitor 
of  the  Horites  (Gen.  xiv,  6;  xxxvi,  20-22),  though  the 
signification  of  this  name,  rugged,  may  have  been  the 
cause  of  its  adoption,  as  the  mountains  are  singularly 
rough  and  rugged.  And  so  says  Josephus  (.1  nt.  i,  20, 
j 3):  “Esau  named  the  country  ‘Roughness’  from  his 
own  hairy  roughness.”  Part  of  the  region  is  still  called 
TLsh-Shtrah , in  which  some  find  a trace  of  Seir,  but  the 
two  words  have  no  etymological  relation.  The  name 
Seir  continued  to  be  applied  to  Edom  after  its  occupa- 
tion by  the  descendants  of  Esau,  and  even  down  to  the 
close  of  the  Q.-T.  history  (see  Josh,  xi,  17 ; 2 Cliron.  xx, 


IDUMAEA 


487 


IDUMyEA 


10;  Ezek.  xxv,  8,  etc.).  The  aborigines  were  called 
Horites  (Sept.  Xoppatot;  Gen.  xiv,  6);  that  is,  Troglo- 
dytesr,  or  “ cave-dwellers,”  from  the  nature  of  their  habi- 
tations. See  llojirns.  The  mountains  of  Edom,  as  all 
travellers  know,  are  filled  with  caves  and  grottoes  hewn 
in  the  soft  sandstone  strata. 

2.  Situation  and  Boundaries. — Edom  proper,  or  Idu- 
m.'ea,  is  situated  on  the  south-eastern  border  of  Pales- 
tine, extending  from  it  to  the  northern  extremity  of  the 
Elanitic  Gulf.  It  was  bounded  on  the  west  by  the  great 
valley  of  the  Arabali,  on  the  south  by  a line  drawn  due 
east  from  the  modem  fortress  of  Akabah,  on  the  east 
by  the  desert  of  Arabia,  and  on  the  north  by  the  an- 
cient kingdom  of  Moab.  Its  length  from  north  to  south 
was  about  100  miles,  and  its  breadth  averaged  20. 
These  boundaries  are  nowhere  directly  defined,  but  we 
can  ascertain  them  from  various  incidental  references  in 
Scripture.  When  the  Israelites  encamped  at  lvadesh- 
barnea  the}1,  were  close  to  the  border  of  Edom  (Numb, 
xx),  and  Mount  Ilor  is  said  to  be  within  its  border 
(xxxiii,  37).  Hence,  as  Ivadesh  was  situated  in  the 
valley  of  the  Arabah,  and  as  Mount  Ilor  is  only  a few 
miles  to  the  east  of  it,  we  conclude  that  the  Arabah  is 
the  western  boundary.  The  Israelites  asked,  but  were 
refused,  a passage  through  either  Edom  or  Moab,  so  as 
to  go  direct  from  Ivadesh  to  the  east  side  of  the  Jordan 
(Numb,  xx,  14-20;  Judg.  xi,  17,  18).  In  consequence 
of  this  refusal,  they  were  obliged  to  march  south  along 
the  xVrabah  to  Ezion-gcber,  and  thence  eastward  by  the 
wilderness  round  the  territories  of  Edom  and  Moab  (id. 
with  Numb,  xxi,  4).  Hence  wre  conclude  that  Edom  and 
Moab  occupied  the  whole  region  along  the  east  side 
of  the  valley  of  the  Arabah,  from  the  Dead  Sea  to  the 
Elanitic  Gulf.  Edom  was  vrholly  a mountainous  coun- 
try, as  may  be  inferred  from  the  names  given  to  it  in 
the  Bible  and  by  ancient  writers  (Deut.  i,  2;  ii,  5;  Jo- 
sephus, Ant.  ii,  1,  2;  Eusebius,  Ononuist.  s.  v.  Idumaea). 
The  foot  of  the  mountain  range,  therefore,  may  be  re- 
garded as  marking  its  eastern  border.  On  the  north  it 
appears  to  have  been  separated  from  Moab  by  the 
“brook  Zered”  (Deut.  ii,  13,  14,  18;  Numb,  xxi,  12), 
which  is  probably  identical  with  the  modern  wady  el- 
Ahsy.  These  views  are  corroborated  by  other  and  in- 
dependent testimony.  In  the  Samaritan  Pentateuch 
the  w'ord  Gobi  a is  substituted  for  Seir  in  Deut.  xxxii, 
2 ; and  Eusebius  and  Jerome  state  that  Idumiea  was  in 
their  time  called  Gebalene,  which  is  a Greek  (VffiaXtjuij) 
corruption  of  the  Hebrew  Gebcil,  “mountain”  ( Onomast . 
id.  et  s.  v.  Seir),  and  is  retained  to  this  day  in  the  Arabic 
form  Jebiil.  The  modern  province  of  Jebal  is  bounded 
on  the  west  by  the  Arabah,  and  on  the  north  by  wady 
el-Ahsy  (Robinson,  Bib.  Res.  ii,  151 ; Burokhardt,  True, 
in  Syria,  p.  410).  We  may  safely  conclude  from  this 
that  the  ancient  province  had  the  same  boundaries,  as  it 
had  the  same  name.  Thus  Josephus  writes  (Ant.  v,  1, 
22)  : “ The  lot  of  Simeon  included  that  part  of  Iduimea 
which  bordered  upon  Egypt  and  Arabia and,  though 
this  is  true,  it  does  not  contradict  the  language  of  Scrip- 
ture— “ I will  not  give  you  of  their  land,  no,  not  so 
much  as  a footbreadth,  because  I have  given  Mount 
Seir  unto  Esau  for  a possession”  (Deut.  ii,  5).  Not  a 
footbreadth  of  Edom  Proper,  or  Mount  Seir,  was  ever 
given  by  divine  sanction  to  the  Jews. 

Josephus  divides  Idumiea  into  two  provinces,  Goboli- 
tis  and  Amalekitis  (.1  nt.  ii,  1, 2).  The  former  embraced 
Idumaea  Proper,  being  identical,  as  the  name  woidd  in- 
dicate, with  "Mount  Seir;”  the  other  embraced  a por- 
tion of  Southern  Palestine,  with  the  desert  plain  south 
of  it,  -which  vras  originally  occupied  by  the  Amalekites 
(Numb,  xiii,  23),  and  subsequently,  as  we  shall  see,  by 
tbe  Edomites.  Pliny  places  Idumiea  to  the  south  of 
Palestine,  bordering  upon  Egypt  (Hist.  Xai.  v,  14). 
Strabo  (xvi,  2,  30,  p.  760)  states  that  the  Idumieans 
Were  originally  Nabathteans,  but,  being  driven  out 
thence,  they  joined  themselves  to  the  Jews.  See  Smith, 
Diet,  of  Class.  Geoy.  s.  v. 

3.  History — The  first  mention  of  Mount  Seir  is  in 


Gen.  xiv,  6,  where  the  confederate  kings  are  said  to 
have  smitten  the  “ Horites  in  their  Mount  Seir.”  B.C. 
cir.  2080.  These  Horites  appear  to  have  been  a tribe 
of  the  gigantic  aborigines  of  Western  Asia,  so  called 
from  dwelling  in  caves  (Gen.  xxxvi,  20-30).  They 
were  a pastoral  people,  divided  into  tribes  like  the  mod- 
em Bedawin,  having  independent  chiefs  called  Alluph 
(Cjsi^X,  ver.  29).  Esau’s  marriage  with  the  daughters 
of  Canaan  alienated  him  from  his  parents,  and  he  then 
obtained  a settlement  among  the  Horites,  where  he  ao- 
quired  power  and  wealth  as  early  as  the  time  of  Ja- 
cob’s return  from  Padan-aram  (Gen.  xxvii,  46).  Prob- 
ably his  close  alliance  with  Ishmael  tended  to  increase 
his  influence  in  his  adopted  country  (xxviii,  9 ; xxxii, 
3 sq.).  Though  then  established  in  Edom,  Esau  had 
still  some  part  of  his  flocks  in  Western  Palestine,  in  con- 
nection with  those  of  his  father;  but  on  the  return  of 
Jacob  he  removed  all  his  property  from  Canaan  and 
dwelt  in  Mount  Seir  (xxxvi,  6-8).  He  gradually  sub- 
dued and  finally  exterminated,  or  perhaps  rather  sup- 
planted, the  Horites  (Deut.  ii,  12,  22),  and  a distinct 
tribe  of  his  descendants,  the  Amalekites,  leaving  Edom, 
took  possession  of  the  desert  plateaus  south  of  Canaan 
(Gen.  xxxvi,  12 ; Exod.  viii,  14  sq.).  The  earliest  form 
of  government  among  the  Edomites  was,  like  that  of 
the  Horites,  by  chiefs  (in  the  A.Y.  rendered  “dukes,” 
but  manifestly  the  same  as  the  modern  Arab  sheiks), 
exercising  independent  authority  over  distinct  tribes 
(Gen.  xxxvi,  15-19).  It  appears,  however,  that  the  va- 
rious tribes  were,  at  least  in  times  of  general  war,  united 
under  one  leader,  to  whom  the  title  of  king  (“-;■£)  was 
given.  The  names  of  eight  of  these  kings  (only  one 
of  whom  is  spoken  of  as  related  to  any  other,  Anah,  tbe 
son  of  Zibeon)  are  mentioned  in  Gen.  xxxvi,  31-39,  who 
are  said  to  have  reigned  in  Edom  “ before  there  reigned 
any  king  over  the  children  of  Israel,”  that  is,  apparent- 
ly before  the  time  of  Moses  (see  Deut.  xxxiii,  5;  Exod. 
xviii,  16-19).  Most  of  the  large  nomad  tribes  of  Ara- 
bia have  now  an  acknowledged  chief,  who  is  styled  emir, 
and  who  takes  the  lead  in  any  great  emergency,  while 
each  division  of  the  tribe  enjoys  independence  under  its 
own  sheik  on  all  ordinary  occasions.  Such  would  seem 
to  have  been  the  case  with  the  Edomites,  and  this  af- 
fords an  easy  solution  of  the  apparent  confusion  in  the 
account  given  by  Moses,  Gen.  xxxvi,  31-43;  and  again 
in  Exod.  xv,  15,  where  it  is  said  “the  dukes  of  Edom 
shall  be  amazed,”  and  Judg.  xi,  17,  where  Moses  is  rep- 
resented as  having  sent  “messengers  from  Ivadesh  unto 
the  king  of  Edom.”  The  primitive  and  pastoral  char- 
acter of  the  people  is  incidentally  brought  out  by  the 
circumstance  that  this  Anah,  though  a chieftain’s  son, 
was  in  the  habit  of  tending  his  father’s  asses  (Gen. 
xxxvi,  24).  It  was  when  thus  employed  that  he  found 
in  the  wilderness  ha-yemim,  rendered  in  the 

Eng. Vers. by  “the  mules,” but  meaning  more  probably 
“the  hot  springs.”  There  is  in  the  country  to  the 
south-east  of  the  Dead  Sea  (which  formed  part  of  the 
Scirite  possessions)  a place,  Callirhoe,  celebrated  among 
the  Greeks  and  Romans  for  its  warm  baths,  which  has 
been  visited  by  modern  travellers  (Josephus,  War,\,  33, 
5 ; I'liny,  Hist.  Nat.  v,  5, 17 ; Legh’s  Travels'). 

Though  the  Israelites  and  Edomites  were  closely  re- 
lated, and  though  the  former  were  commanded  “not  to 
abhor  an  Edomite,  for  he  is  thy  brother”  (Deut.xxiii,7), 
yet  the  bitterest  enmity  appears  to  have  existed  be- 
1 tween  them  at  every  period  of  their  history,  as  a per- 
petuation of  the  unbroilierlv  feud  between  their  pro- 
genitors. "When  the  Israelites  asked  permission  to  pass 
through  the  territory  of  Edom  on  their  way  to  Canaan, 
they  were  rudely  refused.  B.  C.  1619.  The  road  by 
which  it  was  sought  to  penetrate  tbe  country  was  term- 
ed “the  king's  highway”  (ver.  17),  supposed  by  Dr. 
Robinson  ( Researches , ii,  556;  but  see  a different  expla- 
nation in  De  Saulcv’s  Narrative,  i,  392 ; comp.  273,  276) 
to  be  wady  el-Ghuweir,  for  it  is  almost  the  only  valley 
that  affords  direct  and  easy  passage  tlu-ough  those 


488 


IDUMAEA 


IDUMJEA 

mountains.  From  a comparison  of  these  incidents  it  I 
may  be  inferred  that  the  change  in  the  form  of  govern-  | 
ment  took  place  during  the  wanderings  of  the  Israelites 
in  the  Desert,  unless  we  suppose,  with  Eosenmiiller, 
that  it  was  only  this  north-eastern  part  of  Edom  which 
was  now  subject  to  a monarch,  the  rest  of  the  country 
remaining  under  the  sway  of  its  former  chieftains.  But 
whether  the  regal  power  at  this  period  embraced  the 
whole  territory  or  not,  perhaps  it  did  not  supplant  the 
ancient  constitution,  but  was  rather  grafted  on  it,  like 
the  authority  of  the  Judges  in  Israel,  and  of  Saul,  the  , 
tirst  king,  which  did  not  materially  interfere  with  the 
government  that  previously  existed.  It  further  ap- 
pears, from  the  list  of  Idumtean  kings,  that  the  monarchy 
was  not  hereditary,  but  elective  (for  no  one  is  spoken  of 
as  the  son  or  relative  of  his  predecessor)  ; or  probably 
that  chieftain  was  acknowledged  as  sovereign  who  was 
best  able  to  vindicate  his  claim  by  force  of  arms.  Every 
successive  king  appears  to  have  selected  his  own  seat  of 
government:  the  places  mentioned  as  having  enjoyed 
that  distinction  are  Dinliabah,  Avith,  Pagu  or  Pai. 
Even  foreigners  were  not  excluded  from  the  throne,  for 
the  successor  of  Samlah  of  Masrekah  was  Saul,  or  Sliaul, 
“of  Rechoboth,  on  the  river.”  The  word  liechoboth 
means,  literally,  streets , and  was  a not  uncommon  name 
given  to  towns ; but  the  emphatic  addition  of  “ the  riv- 
er” points  evidently  to  the  Euphrates,  and  between 
Rakkah  and  An  ah,  on  that  river,  there  are  still  the  re- 
mains of  a place  called  by  the  Arabs  Eachabath  Malik 
Ibn-Tauk.  In  the  age  of  Solomon  we  read  of  one  Ha- 
dad,  who  “was  of  the  king’s  seed  in  Edom”  (1  Kings  xi, 
14) ; from  which  some  have  conjectured  that  by  that 
period  there  was  a royal  dynasty  of  one  particular  fami- 
ly; but  all  that  the  expression  may  imply  is  that  he 
was  a blood  relation  of  the  last  king  of  the  country, 
lladad  was  the  name  of  one  of  the  early  sovereigns  “ who 
smote  Mklian  in  the  field  of  Moab”  (Hen.  xxxvi,  35). 

The  country  was  attacked  by  Saul  with  partial  suc- 
cess (1  Sam.  xiv,  47).  A few  years  later  David  over- 
threw the  Edomites  in  the  “valley  of  Salt,”  at  the 
southern  extremity  of  the  Dead  Sea  (Robinson,  Bib.  Res. 
ii,  109),  and  put  garrisons  in  their  cities  (2  Sam.  viii,  14; 
1 Chron.  xviii,  11-13;  1 Kings  xi,  15.  Comp,  the  in- 
scription of  Psa.  lx,  and  v,  8,  9;  cviii,  9, 10,  where  “ the 
strong  city”  may  denote  Selah  or  Petra).  Then  were 
fulfilled  the  prophecies  in  Gen.  xxv,  23,  and  xxvii,  40, 
that  the  “ elder  should  serve  the  younger ;”  and  also  the 
prediction  of  Balaam  (Numb,  xxiv,  18),  that  Edom  and 
Seir  should  be  for  possessions  to  Israel.  Solomon  created 
a naval  station  at  Ezion-geber,  on  the  Elanitic  Gulf, 
from  whence  his  ships  went  to  India  and  Eastern  Africa 
(1  Kings  ix,  26;  2 Chron.  viii,  18).  Towards  the  close 
of  his  reign  an  attempt  was  made  to  restore  the  inde- 
pendence of  the  country  by  one  lladad,  an  Idumtean 
prinee,  who,  when  a child,  had  been  carried  into  Egypt 
at  the  time  of  David’s  invasion,  and  had  there  married 
the  sister  of  Tahpanhcs  the  queen  (I  Kings  xi,  14-23). 
See  11  ad  ad.  If  Edom  then  succeeded  in  shaking  off 
the  yoke,  it  was  only  for  a season,  since  in  the  days  of 
Jelioshaphat,  the  fourth  Jewish  monarch  from  Solomon, 
it  is  said  “ there  was  no  king  in  Edom ; a deputy  was 
king;”  i.e.he  acted  as  viceroy  for  the  king  of  Judah. 
For  that  the  latter  was  still  master  of  the  country  is  ev- 
ident from  the  fact  of  his  having  fitted  out,  like  Solomon, 
a fieet  at  Ezion-geber  (1  Kings  xxii,  47, 48;  2 Chron. 
xx,  36,  37).  It  was,  no  doubt,  his  deputy  (called  Jang) 
who  joined  the  confederates  of  Judah  and  Israel  in  their 
attack  upon  Moab  (2  Kings  iii,  9,  12, 26).  Yet  there 
seems  to  have  been  a partial  revolt  of  the  Edomites,  or 
at  least  of  the  mountaineers  of  Seir,  even  in  the  reign  of 
Jchoshaphat  (2  Chron.  xx,  22) ; and  under  his  success- 
or, Jehoram,  they  wholly  rebelled,  and  “made  a king 
over  themselves”  (2  Kings  viii,  20,  22;  2 Chron.  xxi,  8, 
10).  From  its  being  added  that,  notwithstanding  the 
temporary  suppression  of  the  rebellion,  “ Edom  revolted 
from  under  the  hand  of  Judah  unto  this  day,”  it  is  prob- 
able that  the  Jewish  dominion  was  never  completely  re- 


stored. Amaziah,  indeed,  invaded  the  country,  and  hav- 
ing taken  the  chief  city,  Selah  or  Petra,  he,  in  memori- 
al of  the  conquest,  changed  its  name  to  Jokthecl  (q.  d. 
subdued  of  God) ; and  his  successor,  Uzziah,  retained 
possession  of  Elath  (2  Kings  xiv,  7 ; 2 Chron.  xxv,  11- 
14;  xxvi,  3).  But  in  the  reign  of  Aliaz,  hordes  of 
Edomites  made  incursions  into  Judah,  and  carried  away 
captives  (2  Chron.  xxviii,  17).  About  the  same  period, 
Rezin,  king  of  Syria,  expelled  the  Jews  from  Elath, 
which  was  thenceforth  occupied  by  the  Edomites  (2 
Kings  xvi,  6,  where  for  Syrians , we  ought  to 

read  Edomites , C’E’HSt,  De  Rossi,  Yarice  Lectioncs,  ii, 
247).  Now  was  fulfilled  the  other  part  of  Isaac’s  pre- 
diction, viz.,  that  in  course  of  time  Esau  “should  take 
his  brother’s  yoke  from  off  his  neck”  (Gen.  xxvii,  40). 
It  appears  from  various  incidental  expressions  in  the 
later  prophets  that  the  Edomites  employed  their  recov- 
ered power  in  the  enlargement  of  their  territory  in  all 
directions.  They  spread  as  far  south  as  Dedan  in  Ara- 
bia, and  northward  to  Bozrah  in  the  Hauran ; though 
it  is  doubtful  if  the  Bozrah  of  Scripture  may  not  have 
been  a place  in  Idumaea  Proper  (Isa.  xxxiv,  6;  lxiii,  1 ; 
Jer.  xlix,  7, 8-20 ; Ezek.  xxv,  13;  Amos  i,  12).  During 
the  decline  of  the  Jewish  power,  and  wars  of  Judah  and 
Israel,  the  Edomites  gradually  enlarged  their  possessions. 
When  Nebuchadnezzar  besieged  Jerusalem, the  Edomites 
joined  him  and  took  an  active  part  in  the  plunder  and 
slaughter  which  followed.  Their  cruelty  at  that  time 
is  specially  referred  to  in  Tsa.  cxxxvii,  and  was  the 
chief  cause  of  those  dreadful  prophetic  curses  which 
have  since  been  executed  upon  their  country  (Jer.  xlix, 
17 ; Lam.  iv,  21 ; Ezek.  xxv,  13, 14 ; Obad.  10-21).  From 
the  language  of  Malachi  (i,  2,  3),  and  also  from  the  ac- 
counts preserved  by  Josephus  (.4 nt.  x,  9,  7),  it  would 
seem  that  the  Edomites  did  not  wholly  escape  the  C'hal- 
daean  scourge ; bnt  instead  of  being  carried  captive,  like 
the  Jews,  they  not  only  retained  possession  of  their  own 
territory,  but  became  masters  of  the  south  of  Judah,  as 
far  as  Hebron  (1  Macc.  v,  65,  comp,  with  Ezek.  xxxv,  10 ; 
xxxvi,  5).  Probably  as  a reward  for  the  assistance  af- 
I forded  by  them  to  the  Chaldeans,  the  Edomites  were 
permitted  to  settle  in  Southern  Palestine,  and  in  the 
country  lying  between  it  and  the  borders  of  Egypt.  Ti  e 
name.  Iduma\a  was  now  given  to  the  whole  country,  from 
the  valley  of  the  Arabali  to  the  Mediterranean  (Joseph, 
A nt.  v,  1, 22 ; Strabo,  xvi,  2),  and  from  Eleuthcropolis  to 
Elath  (Jerome,  Comment,  in  Obad.).  Hence  arose  the 
mistakes  of  Roman  writers,  who  sometimes  give  the 
name  Idumaea  to  all  Palestine,  and  even  call  the  Jews 
Idumteans  (Virgil,  Georg,  iii,  12 ; Juvenal,  viii,  160). 

1111516  the  Edomites  thus  extended  their  conquests 
westward,  they  were  driven  out  of  their  own  country 
by  the  Nabatlneans  (q.  v.),  who,  leaving  the  nomad 
habits  of  their  ancestors,  settled  down  amid  the  moun- 
tains of  Edom,  engaged  in  commerce,  and  founded  the 
little  kingdom  of  Arabia  Petreea.  Some  of  their  mon- 
arclis  took  the  name  Aretas  (2  Macc.  v,  8;  Joseph.  A at. 
xv,  1,  2),  and  some  Obodas  ( Joseph.  A nt.  xiii,  5, 1).  One 
of  them  was  that  Aretas  whose  daughter  Herod  Antipas 
married  (Matt,  xiv,  3, 4) ; and  it  was  the  same  king  of 
Arabia  who  captured  Damascus,  and  held  it  at  the  time 
of  Paul’s  conversion  (Acts  ix,  25;  2 Cor.  xi,  32).  Idu- 
maea was  taken  by  the  Romans  in  A.D.  105,  and  under 
their  paternal  government  the  enterprising  inhabitants 
increased  greatly  in  -wealth  and  power.  A lucrative 
transport  trade  between  India,  Persia,  and  the  Levant 
was  in  their  hands.  Roads  were  constructed  across  the 
desert  of  Arabia,  through  the  defiles  of  Edom,  and  west- 
ward and  northward  to  the  Mediterranean  and  Pales- 
tine. Traces  of  them  still  remain,  with  ruinous  milita- 
ry stations  at  intervals,  and  fallen  milestones  of  the  times 
of  Trajan  and  Marcus  Aurelius  ( Pevtinger  Tables ; La- 
borde’s  Voyage;  Bnrekhardt’s  Syria,  p.  374,  419;  Irby 
and  Mangles’s  Travels , p.  371,  377, 1st  ed.).  The  mag- 
, nificent  rock-temples,  palaces,  and  tombs  of  Petra  were 
I then  constructed,  which  still  continue  to  be  the  wonder 
1 and  admiration  of  Eastern  travellers.  They  are  not  the 


489 


IDUMAEA 


IDUMAEA 


works  of  the  Edomites,  but  of  the  descendants  of  Xebai-  | 
oth,  Ishmacl’s  oldest  son  and  Esau’s  brother-in-law  (Gen. 
xxv,  13 ; xxx vi,  3 ; Joseph.  Ant.  i,  12,  4 ; Diod.  Sic.  19.) 

On  the  revival  of  Jewish  power  under  the  Asrnona> 
ans,  that  part  of  Southern  Palestine  to  which  the  name 
Idumiea  had  been  given  by  classic  writers  was  seized, 
and  about  B.C.  125  they  were  Anally  subdued  by  John 
Ilyrcanus,  who  compelled  them  to  submit  to  circum- 
cisiou  and  other  Jewish  rites,  with  a view  to  incorpo- 
rate them  with  the  nation  (1  Mace,  v,  3,  65 ; 2 Mace,  x, 
16;  xii,  32;  Joseph.  Ant.  xiii,  9, 1 ; 15,4).  The  amal- 
gamation, however,  of  the  two  races  seems  never  to  have 
been  perfected.  The  country  was  governed  by  Jewish 
prelects,  and  one  of  these,  an  Idunnean  by  birth,  became 
procurator  of  Jiuhea,  and  his  son  was  Ilerod  the  Great, 
“king  of  the  Jews”  (Joseph.  Ant.  xii,  8,  6 ; xiii,  9,  2 : 
xiv,  1, 3 and  8 ; xv,  7, 9 ; xvii,  11, 4 ).  Not  long  before  the 
siege  of  Jerusalem  by  Titus,  20,000  Idunueans  were  call- 
ed in  to  the  defence  of  the  city  by  the  Zealots,  but  both 
parties  gave  themselves  up  to  rapine  and  murder  (Joseph. 
War,  iv,  4,  5 ; 5, 1 ; vii,  8, 1).  This  is  the  last  mention 
made  of  the  Edomites  in  history.  The  author  of  a work 
on  Job,  once  ascribed  to  Origen,  says  that  their  name 
and  language  had  perished,  and  that,  like  the  Ammon- 
ites and  Moabites,  they  had  all  become  Arabs.  In  the 
second  century  Ptolemy  limits  the  name  Idumaea  to  the 
country  west  of  the  Jordan. 

In  the  Arst  centuries  of  the  Christian  jera  Edom  was 
included  in  the  province  of  Palcestina  Tertia,  of  which 
Petra  was  metropolis  (S.  Paulo,  Geoff r.  Sac.  p.  307 ; Re- 
land, Paliest.  p.  218).  After  the  Mohammedan  conquest 
its  commercial  importance  declined,  its  Aourishing  port 
and  inland  cities  fell  to  ruin.  The  Mohammedans  were 
the  instruments  by  which  the  fearful  predictions  of 
the  Scripture  were  Anally  fulAllcd.  The  Crusaders  made 
several  expeditions  to  Edom,  penetrating  it  as  far  as  to 
Petra,  to  which  they  gave  the  name  “Valley  of  Moses” 
(Gesta  Dei  per  Francos,  p.  5 18, 555,  etc.) , a name  still  ex- 
isting in  the  Arabic  form  Wady  Musa.  On  a command- 
ing hill  some  twelve  miles  north  of  Petra  they  built  a 
fortress,  and  called  it  Mans  Reyalis ; its  modern  name  is 
Shobek  {ib.  p.  6 LI).  The  Crusaders  occupied  and  forti- 
Aed  Kcrak,  the  ancient  Kir  Moab,  and  raised  it  to  the 
dignity  of  an  episcopal  see,  under  the  impression  that  it 
was  Petra  (£6.  p.  812, 885, 11 19).  From  the  age  of  the 
Crusaders  until  the  present  century  nothing  was  known 
of  Idunuea.  No  traveller  had  passed  through  it,  and  as 
a country  it  had  disappeared  from  history.  Volney 
heard  some  vague  reports  of  its  winders  from  Arabs. 
Scetzen  also  heard  much  of  it  in  the  year  1896,  but  he 
v'as  unable  to  enter  it.  Burekhardt  was  the  Arst  to 
traverse  the  country.  In  1812  he  travelled  from  Kerak 
south  by  Shobek  to  Petra  ( Trav . in  Syr.  p.  377  sq. ; Rob- 
inson, Bib.  Res.  ii,  165).  In  1828,  Laborde,  proceeding 
northward  from  Akabah  through  the  tleAles  of  Edom, 
also  visited  Petra,  and  brought  away  a portfolio  of  splen- 
did drawings,  which  proved  that  the  descriptions  of 
Burekhardt  had  not  been  exaggerated.  Many  have 
since  followed  the  footsteps  of  the  Arst  explorers,  and  a 
trip  to  Petra  now  forms  a necessary  part  of  the  Eastern 
traveller’s  grand  tour. 

4.  Physical  Geography. — Idumaea  embraces  a section 
of  a broad  mountain  range,  extending  in  breadth  from  , 
the  valley  of  the  Arabah  to  the  desert  plateau  of  Arabia. 
“Along  the  base  of  the  range  on  the  side  of  the  Arabah, 
are  low  calcareous  hills.  To  these  succeed  lofty  masses 
of  igneous  rock,  chieAy  porphyry ; over  which  lies  the 
red  and  variegated  sandstone  in  irregular  ridges  and 
abmpt  cliffs,  broken  by  deep  and  wild  ravines.  The  lat- 
ter strata  give  the  mountains  their  most  striking  feat- 
ures” (Porter,  Handb.for  S.  and  Pal.  i,  44).  “ The  Arst 

thing  that  struck  me,”  says  Stanley,  “in  turning  out  of 
the  Arabah  up  the  deAles  that  lead  to  Petra  was,  that 
we  had  suddenly  left  the  desert.  Instead  of  the  abso- 
lute nakedness  of  the  Sinaitic  valleys,  we  found  our- 
selves walking  on  grass,  sprinkled  with  Aowers,  and  the 
level  platforms  on  each  side  were  Ailed  with  sprouting 


com;  and  this  continues  through  the  whole  descent  to 
Petra,  and  in  Petra  itself.  The  next  peculiarity  was 
when,  after  having  left  the  summit  of  the  pass,  or  after 
descending  from  Mount  Hor,  we  found  ourselves  insensi- 
bly encircled  with  rocks  of  deepening  and  deepening 
red.  Red,  indeed,  even  from  a distance,  the  mountains 
of  ‘red’  Edom  appear,  but  not  more  so  than  the  granite 
of  Sinai ; and  it  is  not  till  one  is  actually  in  the  midst 
of  them  that  this  red  becomes  crimson,  and  that  the 
wonder  of  the  Petra  colors  fully  displays  itself”  {Sin.  and 
Pal.  p.  88).  The  ravines  which  intersect  these  sand- 
stone mountains  are  very  remarkable.  Take  them  as  a 
whole,  there  is  nothing  like  them  in  the  world,  especial- 
ly those  near  Petra.  “ You  descend  from  wide  downs 
. . . and  before  you  opens  a deep  cleft  between  rocks  of 


Ravine  in  Idumasa. 


red  sandstone  rising  perpendicularly  to  the  height  of 

one,  two,  or  three  hundred  feet.  This  is  the  Sik 

Follow  me,  then,  down  this  magniAcent  gorge— the  most 
magniAcent, beyond  all  doubt,  which  I have  ever  beheld. 
The  rocks  are  almost  precipitous,  or  rather  they  "would 
be  if  they  did  not,  like  their  brethren  in  all  this  region, 
overlap,  and  crumble,  and  crack,  as  if  they  would  crash 
over  you”  {ib.  p.  90).  Such  are  the  ravines  of  Id  unisea, 
and  the  dark  openings  of  the  numerous  tombs  and  grot- 
toes which  dot  their  sides;  and  the  sculptured  facades 
here  and  there  hewn  out  in  their  gorgeously  colored 
cliffs  add  vastly  to  their  picturesque  grandeur.  The 
average  elevation  of  the  sandstone  range  is  about  2000 
feet.  Immediately  on  its  eastern  side,  and  indeed  so 
close  to  it  as  to  make  up  part  of  one  great  range,  is  a 
parallel  ridge  of  limestone,  attaining  a somewhat  high- 
er elevation,  and  extending  unbroken  far  to  the  north 
and  south.  The  latter  sinks  with  a gentle  slope  into 
the  desert  of  Arabia.  The  deep  valleys  and  the  little 
terraces  along  the  mountain  sides,  and  the  broad  downs 
upon  their  summits,  are  covered  writh  rich  soil,  in  which 
trees,  shrubs,  and  Aowers  grow  luxuriantly.  "While 
Edom  is  thus  wild,  rugged,  and  almost  inaccessible,  the 
deep  glens  and  Aat  terraces  along  the  mountain  sides 
are  covered  with  rich  soil,  from  which  trees,  shrubs,  and 
Aowers  now  spring  up  luxuriantly.  No  contrast  could 
be  greater  than  that  between  the  bare,  parched  plains 
on  the  east  and  west,  and  the  ruddy  cliffs,  and  verdant, 
Aow'er-spangled  glens  and  terraces  of  Edom.  This  il- 
lustrates Bible  topography,  and  reconciles  seemingly 
discordant  statements  in  the  sacred  volume.  While 
the  posterity  of  Esau  dwelt  amid  rocky  fastnesses  and 
on  mountain  heights,  making  their  houses  like  the 
eyries  of  eagles,  and  living  by  their  sword  (Jer.  xlix, 


490 


IGNATIUS 


IDTOLEA 


16 ; Gen.  xxvii,  40),  yet  Isaac,  in  his  prophetic  blessing, 
promised  his  disappointed  son  that  his  dwelling  should 
be  “ of  the  fatness  of  the  earth,  and  of  the  dew  of  heav- 
en from  above”  (Gen.  xxvii,  39).  But  many  critics  are 
of  opinion  (e.  g.  Yater,  Do  Wette,  Geddes,Yon  Bolilen) 
that  should  there  be  rendered  from,  i.  e.  “far 

away  from,  or  destitute  of,”  the  fatness  of  the  earth,  etc. ; 
and  it  is  immediately  added,  “ for  thou  shalt  live  by  thy 
sword and  it  does  not  appear  that  Idunuua  was  ever 
particularly  noted  for  its  fertility.  Some  other  passages 
of  Scripture  are  also  illustrated  by  a glance  at  the  tow- 
ering precipices  and  peaks  of  Edom.  The  border  of  the 
Amorites  was  from  “ the  ascent  of  scorpions  (A  krabbim), 
from  the  rock” — that  is,  from  the  rocky  boundary  of 
Edom  (Judg.  i,  36).  We  read  that  Amaziah,  aftir  the 
conquest  of  Seir,  took  ten  thousand  of  the  captives  to 
the  “ top  of  the  cliff,”  and  thence  cast  them  down,  dash- 
ing them  all  to  pieces  (2  Chron.  xxv,  1 1, 12). 

5.  Present  State  of  the  Country. — Idumaea,  once  so  rich 
in  its  flocks,  so  strong  in  its  fortresses  and  rock-hewn 
cities,  so  extensive  in  its  commercial  relations,  so  re- 
nowned for  the  architectural  splendor  of  its  temples  and 
palaces — is  now  a deserted  and  desolate  wilderness.  Its 
whole  population  is  contained  in  some  three  or  four  mis- 
erable villages;  no  merchant  would  now  dare  to  enter  its 
borders:  its  highways  are  untrodden,  its  cities  are  all  in 
ruins.  The  predictions  of  God’s  Word  have  been  fulfilled 
to  the  very  letter  (see  Estliinder,  Yaticinia  Jesaiin  in 
Jdumceos,  Aboa?,  1825).  “Thoms  shall  come  up  in  her 
palaces,  nettles  and  brambles  in  the  fortresses  thereof. 
. . . When  the  whole  earth  rejoiceth  I will  make  thee 

desolate Thou  shalt  be  desolate,  O Mount  Seir, 

and  all  Idumaea,  even  all  of  it.  . . . Edom  shall  be  a des- 
olation; every  one  that  goeth  by  it  shall  be  astonished” 
(Isa.  xxxi v,  13 ; Ezek.  xxxv,  14 ; Jer.  xlix,  17).  Iduimea 
is  now  divided  into  two  districts,  Jebal,  including  the 
northern  section  as  far  as  wady  el-Ghuweir,  and  Esk- 
Sheruh,  embracing  the  southern  part  (Burekhardt,  Trav. 
in  Syria,  p.  410;  Ilobinson,  Bib.  Res.  ii,  154).  Burck- 
hardt  mentions  a third  district,  Jebal  Ilesmu ; but  Bob- 
in  son  says  that  though  there  is  a sandy  tract,  el-IIismah, 
with  mountains  around  it,  on  the  east  of  Akabah,  it  does 
not  constitute  a separate  division.  The  site  of  the  an- 
cient capital  Bozrah  is  now  marked  by  the  small  village 
of  Busaireh,  and  Petra,  the  Nabathsean  capital,  is  well 
known  as  wady  Musa. 

The  whole  of  this  region  is  at  present  occupied  by 
various  tribes  of  Bedouin  Arabs.  The  chief  tribe  in  the 
Jebal  is  the  Hejaya,  with  a branch  of  the  Kaabineh, 
while  in  esh-Sherah  they  are  all  of  the  numerous  and 
powerful  tribe  of  the  Iiaweitat,  with  a few  independent 
allies.  The  Bedouins  in  Iduma?a  have  of  late  years 
been  partially  subject  to  the  pacha  of  Egypt,  paying  an 
annual  tribtite,  which,  in  the  ease  of  the  Beni  Suklir,  is 
one  camel  for  two  tents.  The  fellahin,  or  peasants,  are 
half  Bedouin,  inhabiting  the  few  villages,  but  dwelling 
also  in  tents;  they  too  pay  tribute  to  the  Egyptian  gov- 
ernment, and  furnish  supplies  of  grain. 

6.  The  character  of  the  Edomites  was  drawn  by  Isaac 
in  his  prophetic  blessing  to  Esau — “By  thy  sword  shalt 
thou  live”  (Gen.  xxvii,  40).  War  and  rapine  were  the 
only  professions  of  the  Edomites.  By  the  sword  they 
got  Mount  Seir — by  the  sword  they  exterminated  the 
Horites — bv  the  sword  they  long  battled  with  their 
brethren  of  Israel,  and  finally  broke  off  their  yoke— by 
the  sword  they  won  Southern  Palestine — and  by  the 
sword  they  performed  the  last  act  in  their  long  historic 
drama,  massacred  the  guards  in  the  Temple,  and  pillaged 
the  city  of  Jerusalem. 

Little  is  known  of  their  religion,  but  that  little  shows 
them  to  have  been  idolatrous.  It  is  probable  that  Esau’s 
marriage  with  the  “daughters  of  Canaan,”  who  “were 
a grief  of  mind”  to  his  father  and  mother  (Gen.  xxvi, 
34, 35),  induced  him  to  embrace  their  religion;  and  when 
Esau  and  his  followers  took  possession  of  Mount  Seir, 
they  seem  to  have  followed  the  practice  common  among 
ancient  nations  of  adopting  the  country’s  gods,  for  we 


read  that  Amaziah,  king  of  Judah,  after  his  conquest  of 
the  Edomites,  “brought  the  gods  of  the  children  of 
Seir,  and  set  them  up  to  be  his  gods”  (2  Chron.  xxv,  14, 
15,  20).  Josephus  also  refers  both  to  the  idols  (one  of 
which  he  named  Koz'e)  and  priests  of  the  Idumteans 
(A  nt.  xv,  17,  9). 

7.  Literature. — With  respect  to  the  striking  fulfilment 
of  the  prophetic  denunciations  upon  Edom,  we  need 
only  refer  the  reader  to  the  well-known  work  of  Keith, 
who  frequently  errs,  however,  in  straining  the  sense  of 
prophecy  beyond  its  legitimate  import,  as  well  as  in  seek- 
ing out  too  literally  minute  an  accomplishment.  On 
Idunuea  generally,  see  C.  B.  Michaelis,  Bis.  Be  A ntiquiss. 
Idunueor.  Hist,  in  Pott  and  Buperti’s  Sylloye  Comment. 
Theoloyic.  part  vi,  p.  121 ; J.  I).  Michaelis,  Comment,  de 
Troglodytis  Seiritis,  in  the  Syntagma  Commentt.,  part  i, 
p.  194.  For  the  ancient  geography,  Beland’s  Pahestina ; 
Forster’s  Geography  of  Arabia  j Bitter’s  Palastina  und 
Syrien.  For  the  history  and  commerce,  Nolde,  Ilist. 
Idumcece , Frank.  1726;  Vincent’s  Commerce  and  Navi- 
gation of  the  A ncients,  vol.  ii.  For  modem  geography, 
the  travels  of  Burekhardt,  Laborde,  Wilson,  .Stanley, 
and  Porter's  Handb.for  Syria  and  Pal.  ; but  especially, 
Sketches  of  Idumea  and  its  ])?’esent  Inhabitants,  by  Dr.E. 
Bobinson, in  the  Amer.  Bib.  Repository  for  April,  1833, 
p.  247,  and  his  Bib.  Researches,  ii,  551. — lvitto;  Smith. 
See  Edomite,  etc. 

Idumae'an  (’l?ovfiaiog),an  inhabitant  of  the  land 
of  Idunuea  (q.  v.)  (2  Macc.  x,  15, 16). 

I'gal  (Heb.  Yigul',  avenger),  the  name  of  three 
men. 

1.  (Sept.  TyoA,  Vulg.  I gal,  Eng.  Vers.  “ Igal”)  Son 
of  Joseph,  and  commissioner  on  the  part  of  Issachar  to 
explore  the  land  of  Canaan  (Numb,  xiii,  7).  lie  of 
course  perished  with  his  nine  falsehearted  companions 
on  their  return  (Numb,  xiv,  37).  B.C.  1657. 

2.  (Sept.  TyadA,  Vulg.  I goal,  A.  V.  “Igal.”)  Son  of 
Nathan  of  Zobali,  and  one  of  David’s  famous  warriors 
(2  Sam.  xxiii,  36).  B.C.  1046.  In  the  parallel  list  of  1 
Chron.  the  name  is  given  as  “ Joel  the  brother  of  Na- 
than” (xi,  38,  Ton/A).  Kennicott,  after  a minute  exam- 
ination of  the  passage,  both  in  the  original  and  in  the 
ancient  versions,  decides  in  favor  of  the  latter  as  most 
likely  to  be  the  genuine  text  ( Bissertt  Hon,  p.  212-214). 

3.  (Sept.  Ton'/A,  Vulg.  Jegaal,  A.  V.  “Igeal.”)  One 
of  the  sons  of  Shemaiah,  of  the  descendants  of  Zerubba- 
bel  (1  Chron.  iii,  22).  The  number  “ six”  there  given  is 
that  of  the  grandchildren  of  Sheehaniah  (see  Strong’s 
Harm,  and  Expos,  of  the  Gosp.  p.  17).  B.C.  ante  406. 

Igdali'ah  (Ileb.  Yigdalyah' , but  only  in  the  pro- 
longed form,  Yigdalya'hu,  ‘n'ijj), whom  Jehovah  will 
make  great;  Sept.  Yo$o\iac,  Vulg.  Jegedalia),  the  father 
of  Ilanan,  into  the  chamber  of  which  latter  Jeremiah 
brought  the  Bechabites  to  propose  the  test  of  their  tem- 
perance (Jer.  xxxv,  4).  B.C’.  ante  606. 

Ig'eal  (1  Chron.  iii,  22).  See  Igal  3. 

Ignatian  Epistles.  See  Ignatius  of  Antioch. 

Ignatius  of  Antioch,  one  of  the  apostolical  fathers 
(q.  v.),  called  also  Theophorus  (6  Oto<p6poe),  a title  which 
he  explained  to  the  emperor  Trajan  as  meaning  “one 
who  has  Christ  in  his  heart.”  "We  have  no  trustworthy 
accounts  of  the  life  and  ministry  of  Ignatius.  The  chief 
authority  is  the  Martyrium  Ignatii  (see  below),  but  even 
those  wiio  assert  the  genuineness  of  that  work  admit 
that  it  is  greatly  interpolated.  There  are  several  un- 
supported stories  in  the  fathers,  e.  g.  that  Ignatius  was 
the  child  whom  Christ  took  into  his  arms  (Mark  ix,  36), 
that  he  had  seen  Christ,  etc.  Abulpharagius  (Bynasc. 
vii,  75,  ed.  Pocoeke,  1663)  was  understood  to  assert  that 
Ignatius  was  born  at  Nura.  in  Sardinia  or  Cappadocia, 
but  Air.  Cure  ton  (see  below)  shows  that  the  words  used 
have  no  such  reference.  The  Jfurtyrium  (c.  3)  asserts 
that  he  was,  along  with  Polvcarp,  a hearer  of  St.  John. 
Chrysostom  says  that  he  was  nominal  bishop  of  Antioch 
by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands  of  the  apostles  themselves, 


IGNATIUS 


491 


IGNATIUS 


but  Eusebius  fixes  the  date  of  his  ordination  at  A.D.  69, 
when  several  of  the  apostles  were  dead.  According  to 
the  same  historian,  he  was  the  second  successor  of  St. 
Paul,  Evodius  having  been  the  first.  The  Apostolic 
Constitutions,  on  the  other  hand,  say  that  Ignatius  and 
Evodius  held  the  office  together,  Evodius  by  appoint- 
ment from  Peter,  Ignatius  from  Paul.  So  say,  also,  Ba- 
ronins and  Natalis  Alexander,  making,  however,  Evodius 
bishop  of  the  Jews,  and  Ignatius  of  the  Gentiles.  “ Of 
the  episcopate  of  Ignatius  we  know  little.  He  appears 
to  have  been  over-earnest  in  insisting  upon  the  prerog- 
atives of  the  clergy,  especially  the  bishops.  The  Mar- 
tyr ium  Iynatii  represents  him  as  anxious  for  the  stead- 
fastness of  his  flock  during  the  persecution  said  to  have 
taken  place  in  Domitian’s  reign,  and  incessant  in  watch- 
ing and  prayer  and  in  instructing  his  people,  fearing 
lest  the  more  ignorant  and  timid  among  them  should 
fall  away.  On  the  cessation  of  the  persecution  he'  re- 
joiced at  the  little  injury  the  church  at  Antioch  had 
sustained.  When  the  emperor  Trajan,  elated  with  his 
victories  over  the  Dacians  and  other  nations  on  the  Da- 
nubian  frontier,  began  to  persecute  the  Church,  the  anx- 
iety of  Ignatius  was  renewed,  and,  eager  to  avert  the 
violence  of  persecution  from  his  flock,  and  to  obtain  the 
crown  of  martyrdom,  he  offered  himself  as  a victim,  and 
was  brought  before  the  emperor,  then  at  Antioch  on  his 
way  to  the  eastern  frontier  to  attack  the  Armenians  and 
Parthians.  The  conference  between  Trajan  and  the 
bishop  is  given  in  the  Marlyrium  Iynatii;  it  ended  in 
an  order  of  the  emperor  that  Ignatius  should  be  taken 
to  Rome,  and  there  thrown  to  the  wild  beasts,  lie  was 
led  thither  by  a long  and  tedious  route,  but  was  allowed 
to  have  communication  with  his  fellow-Christians  at 
the  places  at  which  lie  stopped.  lie  was  thrown  to  the 
wild  beasts  in  the  Roman  amphitheatre,  at  the  feast  dis- 
tinguished as  i)  TpitjKcudtKctT)],  * the  feast  of  the  thir- 
teenth’ (Smith,  Diet,  of  Class.  Antiq.  s.  v.  Saturnalia). 
Such  parts  of  him  as  remained  were  collected  by  his 
sorrowing  friends,  and  taken  back  to  Antioch,  where  in 
Jerome’s  time  they  were  resting  in  the  cemetery  outside 
the  gate  toward  Daphne.  From  thence  they  were  re- 
moved by  the  emperor  Theodosius  II  to  the  Church  of 
Ignatius  (previously  known  as  the  Tychteum,  or  Temple 
of  Fortune),  in  the  city  of  Antioch  (Evagr.  Hist.  Eecl.  i, 
16).  Their  subsequent  removals  are  uncertain.  The 
martyrdom  of  St.  Ignatius  is  commemorated  by  the  Ro- 
man Church  on  the  1st  of  February;  by  the  Greek 
Church  on  the  20tli  of  December,  the  correct  anniver- 
sary of  his  martyrdom.”  The  year  of  Ignatius’s  death 
has  been  much  disputed.  Many  of  the  best  writers 
(following  the  Martyr  him  Iynatii)  place  it  in  A.D.  107 ; 
but,  as  it  is  now  generally  conceded  that  Trajan  did  not 
visit  the  East  till  1 14,  and  as  he  probably  spent  the  win- 
ter 114-115  at  Antioch,  the  best  critics  agree  on  A.D.  1 1 5 
as  the  most  probable  date. 

Epistles  of  lynatius. — On  liis  way  from  Antioch  to 
Rome,  Ignatius  is  said  to  have  written  seven  epistles. 
These  arc  enumerated  both  by  Eusebius  (Hist.  Eecl.  iii, 
46)  and  Jerome  (De  Viris  Illustr.  c.  16).  At  present, 
however,  there  are  fifteen  epistles  extant,  all  ascribed  to 
Ignatius.  Seven  of  these  are  considered  by  many  to  be 
genuine,  namely,  1.  ITpoj;  'E'fiteiovc,  Ad  Ephesios ; 2. 
Mayvqeievaiv,  Ad  Maynesianos ; 3.  TpaXXiavoic,  Ad 
Trullianos;  4.  l\pl>Q'¥iopaiovQ,  Ad  Romanos;  5.  <PtXa- 
dt\(ptV(Tiv , Ad Philadelphenos ; 6.  ’E/tvpvaiotc,  Ad Smyr- 
nreos ; and, 7.  llpot;  HoXiiKapTrov,  Ad Polycarpnm.  The 
titles  of  these  epistles  agree  with  the  enumeration  of  Eu- 
sebius and  Jerome.  There  are  found  two  recensions  of 
them — a longer,  now  regarded  as  an  interpolated  one, 
first  published  by  Pacams  (1557),  and  a shorter  form, 
which  is  considered  as  tolerably  micorrupted.  Many 
doubt  the  genuineness  of  either  (see  below).  Two  an- 
cient Latin  versions  are  extant,  corresponding  in  a great 
degree  to  the  two  forms  or  recensions  of  the  Greek  text : 
the  larger,  known  as  the  common  (vnlyata)  version,  the 
other  first  discovered  and  published  by  archbishop  Usher 
(1644)  (see  below).  The  epistles  to  the  Ephesians,  Ro- 


mans, and  Poly  carp  were  published,  with  a translation, 
in  a still  shorter  Syriac  version,  by  Cureton  (1845). 
Many  of  the  interpolations  found  in  the  larger  form  are 
of  passages  from  the  N.  T. 

Five  other  epistles,  though  extant  in  Greek,  are  re- 
garded by  nearly  all  classes  of  critics  as  spurious,  name- 
ly, 8.  IIpo£  Mapiav  tit;  "S  tcnroXtv  tj)v  7 rpbg  Tip  Z ap&f 
or  llpog"  Mapiav  KaatJo€oXiTrjv,  or  Ik  Kaeo^ijXojv,  or 
,K aara€a\irtv,  or  tic  KaeTaGaXwv,  A d Mariam,  Neapo- 
lim,  quee  est  ad  Zarbum,  or  Ad  Mariam  Cassobolitam , 
variously  written  Castabalitam,  or  Castabalensem,  or  ex 
Cossobelis,  or  Chassaoboiorum,  or  Chasabolorum,  or  Cus- 
taboloruni;  9.  IIpo£  ravp  tv  Tape  if  Ad  Tar  senses ; 10. 
ITpoc  'Annoytir,  Ad  A ntioehenos ; 11.  Tlpug  "Hpojva, 
duiKovov  ’AvTioxtiac,  Ad  Ileronem  lHaconum  Anti- 
ochice  ; 12.  Tipbg  ^iXunryaiovg,  Ad  PItilippenses.  Some 
copies  add  to  the  title  of  this  last  epistle  the  words  7repi 
lluTTrieparug,  De  Baptismate,  an  addition  which  by  no 
means  describes  the  contents.  Of  four  of  these  spurious 
epistles  two  ancient  Latin  versions  are  extant,  the  com- 
mon version,  and  that  published  by  Usher.  Of  that  to 
the  Pliilippians  there  is  but  one  version,  namely,  the 
common.  The  epistle  to  Polvcarp  in  the  common  Latin 
version  is  defective,  containing  only  about  one  third  of 
what  is  in  the  Greek  text.  There  is  also  extant,  both 
in  the  Greek  and  in  the  two  Latin  versions,  an  epistle 
of  Mary  of  Cassobeke  (called  also  TlpoaijXvToc,  Prose - 
lyta ) to  Ignatius,  to  which  his  letter  professes  to  be  an 
answer. 

The  remaining  three  epistles  ascribed  to  Ignatius  are 
found  only  in  Latin.  They  are  very  short,  and  have 
long  been  given  up  as  spurious.  They  are,  13.  S.Jqamii 
Evanyelishe ; 14.  Ad  Eundem;  and,  15.  Beaten  Viryini. 
With  these  is  found  a letter  of  the  Virgin  to  Ignatius, 
Beata  Viryo  lynatio,  professing  to  he  an  answer  to  liis 
letter.  This  also  is  given  up  as  spurious. 

The  controversy  respecting  the  genuineness  of  these 
writings  began  at  an  early  period.  In  A.D.  1495  the 
three  Latin  epistles  and  the  letter  of  the  Virgin  were 
printed  at  Paris,  subjoined  to  the  Vita  ft  Processus  S. 
Thonue  Cantuarensis  Murlyris  super  Libert  ate  Eceled- 
astica.  In  A.D.  149S,  three  years  after  the  appearance 
of  these  letters,  another  collection,  edited  by  J.  Faber,  of 
Staples  (Stapulensis),  was  printed  at  Paris  in  folio,  con- 
taining the  common  Latin  version  of  eleven  letters,  that 
of  Mary  of  Cassobeke  not  being  among  them.  They  were 
published  with  some  of  the  works  ascribed  to  Dionysius 
Areopagita  and  an  epistle  of  Polvcarp.  These  eleven 
epistles  were  reprinted  atVen.  1502;  Paris,  1515;  Basel, 
1520;  and  Strasburg,  1527.  In  1516  the  preceding  four- 
teen epistles,  with  the  addition  of  the  letter  to  Mary  of 
Cassobeke,  were  edited  by  Symphorianus  Champerius  of 
Lyons,  and  published  at  Paris  in  4to,  with  seven  letters 
of  St.  Antony,  commonly  called  the  Great.  In  A.D. 
1557,  the  twelve  epistles  of  Ignatius,  in  Greek,  were  pub- 
lished by  Valentinus  Paeeus,  or  Pacivus,  in  8vo,  at  Dillin- 
gen,  in  Suabia  on  the  Danube,  from  an  Augsburg  MS. 
They  were  reprinted  at  Paris,  1558,  with  critical  emen- 
dations. The  same  twelve  Greek  epistles,  from  another 
MS.  from  the  library  of  Caspar  a Nvdprvck,  were  pub- 
lished by  Andreas  Gesner,  with  a Latin  version  by  Jo- 
annes Brunner,  Zurich,  1559,  folio.  In  these  editions 
the  Greek  text  of  the  seven  epistles  was  given  in  the 
larger  form,  the  shorter  form,  both  in  Greek  and  Latin, 
being  as  yet  undiscovered.  The  genuineness  of  these 
remains  was  now  called  in  question.  The  authors  of 
the  Centuries  Maydeburyenscs  were  the  first  to  express 
their  doubts,  though  with  caution  and  moderation.  Cal- 
vin, in  his  Institutiones  (i,  3),  declared  that  “nothing 
could  be  more  silly  than  the  stuff  ( necnia i)  which  had 
been  brought  out  under  the  name  of  Ignatius,  and  ren- 
dered the  impudence  of  those  persons  more  insuffera- 
ble who  had  set  themselves  to  deceive  people  by  such 
phantoms  (lari'af’  The  controversy  grew  warm,  the 
Roman  writers  and  the  Episcopalians  commonly  con- 
tending for  the  genuineness  of  at  least  a part  of  the  epis- 
tles, and  the  Presbyterians  denying  it.  The  three  epis- 


IGNATIUS 


492 


IGNATIUS 


ties  not  extant  in  Greek  were  the  first  given  np,  but  the 
rest  were  stoutly  contended  for.  Several,  however,  dis- 
tinguished between  the  seven  enumerated  by  Eusebius 
and  the  rest,  and  some  contended  that  even  those  which 
were  genuine  were  interpolated.  'While  the  controversy 
was  in  this  state,  Vedelius,  a professor  at  Geneva,  pub- 
lished an  edition  (S.  Tgnaiii  qua  extant  Omnia , Geneva, 
1623,  4to)  in  which  the  seven  genuine  were  arranged 
apart  from  the  other  five  epistles ; he  marked,  also,  in. 
the  genuine  epistles,  the  parts  which  he  regarded  as  in- 
terpolations. In  1644  archbishop  Usher’s  (4to,  Oxford) 
edition  of  the  epistles  of  Polycarp  and  Ignatius  appeared. 
It  contained,  1.  Polycarpiuna  Epistolaru m If  pm  tin na rum 
Sylbye  (Poly carp’s  Collection  of  the  Epistles  of  Igna- 
tius), containing  Polycarp’s  epistle  to  the  Philippians 
and  six  of  the  supposed  genuine  epistles  of  Ignatius ; 2. 
Epistolee  B.  Iynatio  adscripts  a Media  yEtatis  Grads 
Sex  (Six  Epistles  ascribed  to  St.  Ignatius  by  the  Greeks 
of  the  Midtile  Age).  The  epistle  of  Polycarp  was  in- 
cluded in  this  class,  with  the  five  spurious  epistles  ex- 
tant in  Greek.  The  common  Latin  version  was  also 
printed  with  these  in  parallel  columns,  and  the  three 
epistles  which  are  extant  only  in  Latin  were  subjoined; 
3.  A Latin  version  of  eleven  epistles  (that  to  the  Philip- 
pians being  omitted)  from  the  two  MSS.  obtained  by 
Usher,  and  now  first  printed.  This  corresponds,  in  the 
main,  to  the  shorter  text  of  the  so-called  genuine  epis- 
tles. The  work  of  Usher  contains  also  a valuable  intro- 
duction and  notes  to  the  epistles  of  Ignatius  and  Poly- 
carp, the  Apostolical  Constitutions,  and  the  Canons 
ascribed  to  Clement  of  Borne.  In  1646  the  epistles  of 
Ignatius  were  published  by  Isaac  Vossius  (4to,  Amst.), 
from  a MS.  in  the  Mcdicean  Library  at  Florence.  The 
MS.,  which  is  not  accurately  written,  and  is  mutilated 
at  the  end,  is  valuable  as  the  only  one  containing  the 
shorter  recension  of  the  genuine  epistles ; it  wants,  how- 
ever, that  to  the  Bomans,  which  was  given  by  Vossius 
in  the  longer  form,  as  in  the  former  editions.  The  five 
spurious  epistles,  and  that  of  Mary  of  Cassobeke  to  Igna- 
tius, from  the  Mcdicean  MS.,  the  text  of  which  differs 
materially  from  that  previously  published;  the  three 
Latin  epistles;  Usher’s  Latin  version  of  the  eleven 
Greek  epistles ; and  the  common  version  of  that  to  the 
Philippians,  were  all  given  by  Vossius.  In  1647  Usher 
published  his  Appendix  Ignatiana,  containing  the  Greek 
text  of  the  seven  epistles,  and  two  Latin  versions  of  the 
Martyrium  Iynatii.  He  gave  the  Medicean  text  of  six 
of  the  epistles;  that  to  the  Bomans  was  the  common 
text,  with  the  interpolations  expunged,  as  determined 
by  a collation  of  the  epistle  contained  in  the  Martyri- 
um, both  in  the  Greek  of  Symeon  Metaphrastes  and  the 
Latin  version  published  by  Usher.  After  the  contro- 
versy  had  been  carried  on  for  some  time,  and  great  prog- 
ress had  been  made  towards  the  settlement  of  the  text, 
the  most  formidable  attack  on  the  genuineness  of  the 
epistles  was  made  by  Daille  (Dalkeus),  one  of  the  most 
eminent  of  the  French  Protestants,  in  his  work  I)e  Scrip- 
tis  qua  sub  Dionysii  Areopayita  et  Iynatii  Antiocheni 
dreumferentnr  Libri  duo  (Gen.  1666, 4to).  The  works 
•of  Ignatius  form  the  subject  of  the  second  book.  This 
attack  of  Daille  called  forth  the  Yindida  Ignatiana  of 
bishop  Pearson  (Cambridge,  1672, 4to),  which  was  long 
supposed  to  have  settled  the  controversy.  But  it  has 
recently  been  reopened  with  fresh  vigor  and  interest. 
Archbishop  Usher,  in  his  edition  of  the  Ignat ian  Epis- 
tles published  at  Oxford  in  1644,  declared  that  he  could 
not  venture  to  promise  that  the  genuine  Ignatius  could 
be  recovered  without  the  aid  of  another  Greek  text, 
-which  he  hoped  to  obtain  from  a INIS,  in  the  Medicean 
Library  at  Florence,  or  at  least  without  the  aid  of  a 
Syriac  copy,  which  he  did  not  despair  of  procuring  from 
Borne.  The  Medicean  MS.  was  published,  but  the  diffi- 
culties remained  the  same.  The  Syriac  version,  which 
was  then  looked  to  as  affording  the  only  probable  clew 
to  the  solution,  eluded  the  most  diligent  and  anxious 
search  for  a period  of  200  years.  It  was  reserved  for 
the  Bev.  William  Cureton,  a canon  of  Westminster,  to 


supply  this  clew.  Mr.  Cureton  discovered,  among  a 
most  important  collection  of  Syriac  MSS.,  procured  for 
the  British  Museum  by  archdeacon  Tattam,  in  the  year 
1843,  from  the  monastery  of  St.  Mary  Deipara  of  the 
Syrians,  in  the  Desert  of  Nitria,  three  entire  epistles, 
which  he  published  in  the  year  1845.  This  publication 
naturally  excited  great  attention  on  the  part  of  those 
who  felt  an  interest  in  the  subject,  and  called  forth  se- 
vere strictures  from  some  who  seemed  to  consider  that 
to  remove  any  part  of  the  seven  epistles  of  Ignatius  was 
to  take  away  so  much  from  the  foundations  of  episco- 
pacy. The  form  which  the  controversy  now  took  led 
to  the  publication,  in  1849,  by  Mr.  Cureton,  of  the  Coipus 
Ignatianum,  in  which  the  editor  brought  together  a com- 
plete Colledion  of  the  lynatian  Epistles — genuine , inter- 
polated, and  spurious;  together  with  numerous  Extracts 
from  them,  as  quoted  by  Ecclesiastical  Writers  down  to 
the  Tenth  Century,  and  accompanied  by  a full  history  of 
the  controversy  from  its  commencement.  Sir.  Cureton’s 
conclusion  was  that  the  three  epistles  which  he  pub- 
lished were  the  only  genuine  productions  of  Ignatius  in 
the  series  bearing  his  name.  If  this  did  not  “ take  away 
so  much  from  the  foundations  of  episcopacy,”  it  is  be- 
cause the  supposed  testimony  of  a most  venerable  apos- 
tolic father  is  not  one  of  its  foundations,  for  certainly  the 
three  letters  are  as  bare  of  prelatic  allusion  as  any  of 
Paul’s.  But  the  matter  did  not  rest  here.  Several  crit- 
ical reviews  of  this  position  appeared,  the  most  important 
of  which  was  by  Uhlhorn,  in  the  21st  volume  of  the  Zeit- 
schdftf  el.  hist.  Theol.,  in  which  a long  and  learned  ex- 
amination of  the  question,  under  the  title  Das  Verhalt- 
uiss  d.  syrischen  Recension  d.  iyncitianischen  Briefe  zu  d. 
kii rzern y riech ischen,  v.  cl.  Authentic  d.  Briefe  uberhaupt 
(translated  into  English,  in  a somewhat  condensed  form, 
by  the  Bev.  Henry  Browne,  in  the  Theol.  Critic  [1832]), 
is  entered  into,  which  finally  asserts  that  “the  seven  let- 
ters, according  to  the  shorter  Greek  recension,  are  the 
genuine  productions  of  Ignatius  of  Antioch.”  Another 
Translation  of  the  Epistles  of  Ignatius  ( together  with 
Clemens  Romanus,  Poly  carp,  and  the  Apologies  of  Justin 
Martyr  and  Taiulluni),  with  notes,  and  an  account  of 
the  present  state  of  the  question  respecting  the  epistles 
of  Ignatius,  by  the  Bev.  Temple  C’hevallier,  B.D.  (8vo), 
appeared  in  1852.  In  1859  the  question  was  again  open- 
ed, and  again  in  the  Zeitsch.fur  hist.  Theol.,  by  Dr.  B. 
A. Lipsius,  who,  in  a paper  entitled  Ueber  die  Aechtheit 
der  syrischen  Recension  der  iynatianischen  Briefe,  goes 
over  the  ground  again  with  all  the  learning  of  his  pre- 
decessors in  the  same  field,  but  more  at  length,  examin- 
ing in  detail,  and  with  great  critical  acumen,  the  argu- 
ments which  have  been  adduced  by  both  sides  in  this 
discussion.  Dr.  Lipsius  adopts  all  the  reasoning  of  the 
learned  editor  of  the  Corpus  Ignatianum,  and  arrives  at 
the  same  conclusion,  namely,  that  the  three  letters  to 
Polvcarp,  to  the  Ephesians,  and  to  the  Bomans,  in  the 
form  in  which  they  appear  in  the  Syriac  recension,  are 
the  genuine  letters  of  Ignatius,  but  that  the  present  re- 
cension of  the  seven  letters  are  from  a later  hand,  in 
which  the  three  genuine  letters  have  been  remodelled, 
and  to  these  three  four  new  ones  added.  It  is  a circum- 
stance not  to  be  overlooked  that  this  full  adoption  of  Mr. 
Cureton’s  views  has  appeared  in  the  same  journal  which 
gave  to  the  world  Uhlhorn's  lucubrations,  and  speaks 
highly  for  the  honest  desire  of  its  conductors  to  promote 
the  cause  of  truth,  and  that  only.  Bunsen  also  adopted 
the  views  of  Cureton  in  his  Die  drei  echten  mid  vier 
unechten  Briefe  des  Ignatius  (Hamburg,  1847,  8vo),  and 
his  conclusions  have  been  admitted  by  some  eminent 
Presbyterian  authorities  (see  Bibl.  Repos.  July,  1849) ; 
but  Dr.  Killen,  the  Irish  Presbyterian,  in  his  Ancient 
Church  (Belfast  and  N.  Y.  1859,  8vo),  condemns  all  the 
epistles  as  worthless  and  spurious.  He  remarks  that  “ it 
is  no  mean  proof  of  the  sagacity  of  the  great  Calvin  that 
upwards  of  three  hundred  years  ago  he  passed  a sweep- 
ing sentence  of  condemnation  on  these  Ignatian  epistles. 
At  the  time  many  were  startled  by  the  boldness  of  his 
language,  and  it  was  thought  that  he  was  somewhat  pre- 


IGNATIUS 


493 


IGNATIUS 


cipitate  in  pronouncing  such  a decisive  judgment.  Tint 
he  saw  distinctly,  and  he  therefore  spoke  fearlessly. 
There  is  a far  more  intimate  connection  than  many  are 
disposed  to  believe  between  sound  theology  and  sound 
criticism,  for  a right  knowledge  of  the  Word  of  God 
strengthens  the  intellectual  vision,  and  assists  in  the 
detection  of  error  wherever  it  may  reveal  itself.  Had 
Pearson  enjoyed  the  same  clear  views  of  Gospel  truth  as 
the  reformer  of  Geneva,  he  would  not  have  wasted  so 
many  precious  years  in  writing  a learned  vindication  of 
the  nonsense  attributed  to  Ignatius.  Calvin  knew  that 
an  apostolic  man  must  have  been  acquainted  with  apos- 
tolic doctrine,  and  he  saw  that  these  letters  must  have 
been  the  production  of  an  age  when  the  pure  light  of 
Christianity  was  greatly  obscured.  Hence  he  denounced 
them  so  emphatically;  and  time  has  verified  his  deliv- 
erance. llis  language  respecting  them  has  been  often 
quoted,  but  we  feel  we  cannot  more  appropriately  close 
our  observations  on  this  subject  than  by  another  repeti- 
tion of  it,  ‘There  is  nothing  more  abominable  than  that 
trash  which  is  in  circulation  under  the  name  of  Igna- 
tius.’ ” Dr.  Killen’s  positive  arguments  against  the  gen- 
uineness of  all  the  epistles  are,  1.  The  style  is  suspicions ; 
2.  The  epistles  ignore  God’s  Word,  which  is  never  done 
by  any  of  the  genuine  writings  of  the  early  fathers;  3. 
They  contain  chronological  blunders;  4.  They  use  words 
in  meanings  which  they  did  not  acquire  till  long  after 
the  time  of  Ignatius;  5.  They  abound  in  puerilities,  va- 
poring, and  mysticism ; 6.  They  manifest  an  unhallowed 
and  insane  desire  for  martyrdom.  Baur  and  Hilgenfeld 
also  hold  them  all  not  to  be  genuine,  but  think  that  the 
seven  of  the  shorter  Greek  recensions  were  the  first  to 
be  forged  after  A.D.  150,  and  that  the  Syriac  three  are 
simply  fragmentary  translations  from  the  Greek.  With 
Uhlhorn  agree  also  many  able  and  sound  critics  of  the 
Romanists  aiul  Protestants,  as  Mcihler,  Ilefele,  and  Gie- 
seler. 

The  most  complete  edition  of  Ignatius  is  that  con- 
tained in  the  Patres  A post  olid  of  Cotelerins,  the  second 
edition  of  which,  by  Le  Clerc  (Arnst.  1724,  2 vols.  folio), 
contains  all  the  genuine  and  spurious  epistles  (Greek  and 
Latin),  with  the  epistles  of  Mary  of  Cassobelai  and  of  the 
Virgin,  the  two  ancient  Latin  versions  (the  common  one 
and  Usher's),  the  Martyriam  Iynatii , the  Dissertationes 
(i.  e.  the  Introduction)  of  Usher,  the  V indicia}  of  Pear- 
son, a Dissert  a tin  de  Iynatianis  Epistolis  by  Le  Clerc, 
and  variorum  notes.  A useful  edition  of  the  genuine 
epistles,  with  those  of  Clement  of  Rome  and  Polycarp, 
and  the  M artyria  of  Ignatius  and  Polycarp,  was  pub- 
lished by  Jacobson  (Oxford,  1838,  2 vols.  8vo).  There 
are  versions  in  several  languages  of  modern  Europe,  in- 
cluding two  English  translations,  an  old  one  by  arch- 
bishop Wake  ( Genuine  Epistles  of  the  Apostolic  Fathers, 
Lond.  1G93, 8vo),  and  a modern  one  by  Clementson  (1827, 
8vo).  Wake’s  translation  has  been  repeatedly  published. 

The  Martyriam  Iynatii,  which  is  our  chief  authority 
for  the  circumstances  of  Ignatius’s  death,  professes  to  be 
written  by  eye-witnesses,  the  companions  of  his  voyage 
to  Rome,  supposed  to  be  Philo,  a deacon  of  Tarsus  or 
some  other  church  in  Cilicia,  and  Kheus  Agathopns,  a 
Syrian,  who  are  mentioned  in  the  epistles  of  Ignatius 
(-•I  d Philadelph.  c.  1 1 ; Ad  Smyrneos,  c.  13).  Usher  adds 
to  them  a third  person,  Gains,  but  on  what  authority  we 
know  not,  and  Gallandius  adds  Crocus,  mentioned  by  Ig- 
natius (.Ir£  Romanus , c.  10).  The  account,  with  many 
interpolations,  is  incorporated  in  the  work  of  Symeon 
Metaphrastes  (Dec.  A.D.  20),  and  a Latin  translation 
from  him  is  given  by  Surius,  De  Probatis  Sanctor.  Vitis, 
and  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum,  under  the  date  of  the  1st  of 
February.  The  J7 artyrium  was  first  printed  in  Latin  by 
archbishop  Usher,  who  gave  two  distinct  versions  from 
different  MSS.  The  Greek  text  was  first  printed  by 
Ruinart,in  his  A eta  Marty  rum  Sincera  (Par.  lG89,4to), 
from  a MS.  in  the  Colbertine  library,  and  in  a revised 
edition  in  Le  Clerc’s  Cotelerius.  It  is  given  by  Jacob- 
son and  by  most  of  the  later  editors  of  the  epistles.  Its 
genuineness  is  generally  recognised,  but  it  is  thought  to 


be  interpolated.  See  the  remarks  of  Grabe,  quoted  by 
Jacobson  at  the  end  of  the  M artyrium.  A considerable 
fragment  of  an  ancient  Syriac  version  of  the  M artyrium 
of  Ignatius  has  been  published  by  Mr.  Cureton. 

See  Smith,  Diet,  of  Bioy.  and  Mythol.  s.  v. ; Cave,  Hist. 
Lift,  anno  117;  Lardner,  Credibility  of  Gospel  History  ; 
Edinburgh  Review,  July,  1*49;  Coleman , Ancient  Chris- 
tianity, p.  197-200 ; Bohringer,  Kirchengesch.  in  Biog.  i, 

7 sq. ; Milman,  Eat.  Christ,  i,  53  sq. ; Neamler,  Ch.  Hist. 
i,  2G9,  295,  G31 ; Cureton,  Corpus  Iynatkmum  (Lond.  1849, 
8vo) ; Milton,  Prose  I Vorks,  i,78  sq. ; X.  Y.  Review,  i,  3G7 ; 
Kit  to,  Jonrn.  Sac.  Lit.  April,  1 850 ; New  Englander,  Nov. 
1849  ; Quarterly  Review,  Dec.  1850 ; Lipsius,  in  Zeitsch. 
f.  histor.  Thtol.  1850,  Ileft  1 ; Uhlhorn,  in  Herzog's  Real- 
Encyklop.  vi,  623  sq.;  Brit,  and  For.  Rev.  xxxiii,  (440  sq.; 

.1  m.  Presb.  Rev.  Jan.  1867,  p.  137  sq. ; Princet.  Rep.  1849, 
p.  378  sq.;  Amer.  Quart.  Church  Review,  Jan.  1870,  p.  563 
sq.  See  also  Epistles. 

Ignatius,  patriarch  of  Constantinople,  flourish- 
ed about  the  beginning  of  the  9th  century.  The  schism 
of  the  Greek  and  Roman  churches,  which  began  under 
Photius  (q.  v.),  who  persecuted  Ignatius  and  usurped 
his  see,  gives  importance  to  his  life.  The  following  ac- 
count of  him  is  (necessarily)  chiefly  from  Roman  sources, 
and  must  be  taken  with  allowance.  He  was  born  in 
799,  and  was  the  son  of  the  emperor  Michael  Curopala- 
tes ; his  mother,  Procopia,  was  the  daughter  of  the  em- 
peror Nicephorus.  On  the  revolt  of  Leo  the  Armenian, 
Michael  surrendered  to  him  the  throne,  which  he  had 
occupied  for  the  short  period  of  a year  and  nine  months 
only,  and  embraced  monastic  life.  His  sons  followed 
the  example  of  their  father,  and  the  youngest,  Nicetas, 
then  aged  fourteen,  changed  his  name  to  Ignatius.  The 
new  emperor,  in  order  not  to  be  disturbed  in  the  posses- 
sion of  power,  separated  the  several  members  of  the 
family  of  Michael,  and  caused  his  two  sons,  Eustratius 
and  Nicetas,  to  be  made  eunuchs.  During  the  reign  of 
the  three  emperors,  Leo,  Michael  II,  and  Theophilus, 
the  young  men  were  allowed  to  enjoy  in  tranquillity 
the  monastic  life  to  which  they  had  devoted  themselves. 
Ignatius  was  admitted  into  the  order  of  priesthood  bv 
Basil,  bishop  of  Paros,  in  the  Hellespont,  a prelate  who 
had  suffered  great  persecution  in  opposing  the  Icono- 
clasts, and  to  whom  Ignatius  was  much  attached.  On 
the  death  of  Theophilus,  the  empress  Theodora  was  de- 
clared regent  in  the  name  of  her  son,  Michael  III.  Be- 
ing opposed  to  the  Iconoclasts,  she  banished  John,  the 
patriarch  of  Constantinople,  and  caused  Methodius  to 
be  elected  in  his  place.  Four  years  after,  on  the  death 
of  Methodius,  the  patriarchal  dignity  was  bestowed  upon 
Ignatius.  But  he  did  not  long  enjoy  this  honor.  Bar- 
das,  the  brother  of  the  empress,  whom  he  had  excom- 
municated on  account  of  his  scandalous  excesses,  having 
obtained  considerable  influence  on  the  mind  of  the 
young  emperor  Michael,  whose  vices  he  flattered  and 
encouraged,  induced  him  to  take  the  reins  of  govern- 
ment, and  to  compel  his  mother  to  withdraw  to  a con- 
vent, and  to  accept  the  vows.  Ignatius,  when  sum- 
moned to  lend  his  authority  to  this  unfilial  act,  did  not 
content  himself  with  remonstrating  against  it,  but  gave  4 
a stern  refusal.  He  was,  in  consequence,  banished  to  the 
isle  of  Terebinthos,  and  deprived  of  his  see,  which  he 
had  held  for  eleven  years.  Photius,  a eunuch  related 
to  Bardas,  and  a person  of  considerable  learning,  who 
favored  the  Iconoclasts,  was  by  the  will  of  the  emperor, 
but  without  the  consent  of  the  Church,  appointed  to  the 
patriarchate  of  Constantinople.  For  the  controversy  of 
Photius  with  the  Church  of  Rome  and  its  issue,  see 
Photius.  All  means  employed  to  induce  Bardas  to  re- 
sign remaining  ineffective,  his  death  was  finally  deter- 
mined upon,  and  he  was  murdered  in  8G6.  Basil  the 
Macedonian  now  became  possessed  of  the  supreme  pow- 
er. One  of  the  first  acts  of  his  reign  was  to  banish 
Photius  and  recall  Ignatius,  who  was  triumphantly  re- 
instated in  his  patriarchal  dignity  Nov.  3,  867.  At  his 
suggestion  a council  was  assembled  at  Constantinople, 
which  ranks  in  the  Roman  Church  as  the  eighth  oecu- 


IGNATIUS  LOYOLA  4D4  I.  H.  S. 


menical.  It  was  presided  over  by  the  legate  of  pope 
Adrian  II,  and  in  it  Photius  and  his  partisans  were  ex- 
communicated, and  their  opinions  condemned.  From 
this  time  Ignatius  was  allowed  to  rule  the  Greek  Church 
without  opposition.  He  died  Oct.  23,  878,  on  which 
day  the  Greek  and  Roman  churches  still  celebrate  his 
memory.  He  was  buried  in  the  church  of  St.  Sophia, 
but  his  remains  were  afterwards  transferred  to  that  of 
St.  Michael,  near  the  Bosphorus.  The  details  of  his  life 
are  principally  drawn  from  Nicetas  David,  who  had 
known  him  personally.  Ignatius  wrote  Biot-  'Yapaoiov 
Tou  TraTpiupxov  KuiV(Travrivov7r6\eu>Q,  the  Greek  text 
of  which  remains  unpublished,  but  a Latin  translation 
of  it  is  to  be  found  in  Surius,  De  probutis  Sanctorum 
Vitis,  and  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum  (Feb.  25),  iii,  576: — 
Biot;  tov  ccyiov  'Nuo/fldpov,  iraTpidpxov  Kwvor.,  the 
Greek  text  of  which  is  contained  in  the  Acta  Sancto- 
rum (March  12),  ii,  704,  Append.  He  also  wrote  other 
works,  among  them  an  abridgment  of  fifty-three  fables 
from  Babrius  in  Iambic  verses,  each  fable  containing 
only  four  verses.  These  were  published  at  first  under 
the  name  of  Gabrias,  Gabrius,  or  Babrius,  in  the  Aldine 
Esop  (Venice,  1505),  and  afterwards  under  the  author’s 
real  name  (Ignatius  Magister),  in  Ritterhusius’s  Plie- 
drus,  and  Nevelet’s  Mythologia  vEsopica.  — Hoefer, 
No uk.  Biogr.  Generate,  xxv,  795;  English  Cyclopaedia; 
Smith,  Diet,  of  Biography ; Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  52, 
96;  Neander,Cft.  Hist,  iii,  558  sq. ; Hardwicke,  Ch.  Hist. 
(Middle  Ages),  p.  195  sq. 

Ignatius  Loyola.  See  Loyola. 

Ignis  Purgatorius.  See  Purgatory. 

Ignorance,  the  want  of  knowledge  or  instruction. 
It  is  often  used  to  denote  illiteracy.  Mr.  Locke  observes 
that  the  causes  of  ignorance  arc  chiefly  three:  1,  want 
of  ideas;  2,  want  of  a discoverable  connection  between 
the  ideas  we  have ; 3,  want  of  tracing  and  examining 
our  ideas.  As  respects  religion,  ignorance  has  been  dis- 
tinguished into  three  sorts:  I.  An  invincible  ignorance, 
in  which  the  will  has  no  part.  It  is  an  insult  upon  jus- 
tice to  suppose  it  will  punish  men  because  they  were 
ignorant  of  things  which  they  were  physically  incap.  - 
blc  of  knowing.  2.  There  is  a wilful  and  obstinate 
ignorance;  such  an  ignorance,  far  from  exculpating, 
aggravates  a man’s  crimes.  3.  A sort  of  voluntary  ig- 
norance, which  is  neither  entirely  wilful  nor  entirely 
invincible,  as  when  a man  has  the  means  of  knowledge, 
and  does  not  use  them. — Locke,  On  the  Understanding,  ii, 
178  ; Grove,  Moral  Philosophy,  ii,  26,  29,  64;  Watts,  On 
the  Mind;  Henderson’s  Buck,  Theolog.  Diet.  s.  v.  See 
Knowledge. 

Ignorantines  (Latin,  Fratres  Ignorantm ; French, 
Freres  Ignorantm s'),  also  known  as  the  Congregation  of 
Christian  Instruction  and  Christian  Schools,  is  the  name 
of  a Jesuitical  foundation  for  the  gratuitous  instruction 
of  poor  children  in  sacred  as  well  as  secular  learning, 
which  was  founded  in  France  in  the  early  part  of  the 
18th  century  (1724)  by  the  abbe  de  la  Salle.  As  the 
object  is  to  confine  the  instruction  to  such  branches 
as  do  not  conflict  with,  but  even  favor,  the  religious 
views  of  the  Roman  Catholics,  virtually  preparing  the 
young,  by  the  exclusion  of  all  books  by  Protestants,  to 
remain  true  to  the  church  of  their  fathers,  they  have 
gradually  been  introduced  into  every  Catholic  country 
of  Europe.  In  France  this  society  shared  at  the  Revo- 
lution the  fate  of  all  the  other  religious  bodies;  but, 
under  the  name  of  Brothers  of  the  Christian  Schools, 
they  were  recalled,  and  re-established  under  Napoleon 
in  1806.  They  are  now  exceedingly  numerous  in  France, 
Italy,  and  in  some  parts  of  Bohemia  and  Germany. 
Many  branches  exist  also  in  England  and  Ireland.  In 
the  latter  country  they  have  large  educational  estab- 
lishments, with  a series  of  school-books  specially  design- 
ed for  Roman  Catholics.  The  Ignorantines  wear  a dress 
very  similar  to  that  of  the  Jesuits. — Chambers,  Cyclop. 
v,  517 ; Herzog,  Peal-Encykbp.  vi,  632. 

Igumen  or  Hegumen  is  the  title  of  an  abbey  in 


the  male  monasteries  of  the  Greek  Church,  more  espe- 
cially in  Russia. 

Ihre,  Johann  von,  a Swedish  philologian,  was  born 
March  3,  1707,  at  Lund,  and  educated  at  the  universi- 
ties of  Upsala,  Greifswald,  Jena,  and  Halle.  At  the 
last-named  high-school  he  afterwards  lectured  for  a time 
on  the  Oriental  languages,  then  travelled  extensively  in 
Germany,  Holland,  England,  and  France,  and  on  his  re- 
turn to  his  native  country  was  appointed  librarian  at 
Upsala  University.  In  1737  he  was  appointed  professor 
of  poetry,  and  the  year  following  professor  of  rhetoric, 
which  he  remained  for  forty  years.  lie  died  Nov.  26, 
1780.  He  distinguished  himself  greatly  by  his  thor- 
ough investigations  into  the  philological  merits  of  his 
mother  tongue,  and  by  his  labors  on  the  Gothic  version 
of  Ulfilas,  the  results  of  which  are  left  us  in  Scripta 
versionem  Ulphilanam  et  ling.  M aso-gothicam  illustran - 
tia,  which  were  collected  and  edited  by  A.  F.  Biisching 
(Berl.  1773,  4to).  This  collection  (which  is  very  rare, 
as  only  131  copies  were  printed)  contains,  1.  Ulphilas  il- 
lustrates, a series  of  critical  observations  on  the  readings 
of  the  Codex  Argent eus,  with  a preface,  in  which  he  at- 
tempts to  prove  “ that  the  letters  of  the  Codex  were 
produced  by  an  encaustic  process,  the  surface  of  the 
parchment  having  been  covered  with  wax,  on  which 
silver-leaf  was  laid,  and  the  form  of  the  letter  stamped 
thereon  with  a hot  iron  ;”  2.  Fragmenta  vers.  Ulph.,  con- 
taining the  portions  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans  pub- 
lished by  Knittel,  with  annotations ; 3.  Dissertatio  de 
onginibus  Ling.  Lat.  et  Gr.  inter  Masogothos  reperiun- 
dis;  4 .De  verbis  M (isogoth ; Analecta  Ulphil.,i,de  Cod. 
A rgent.  et  lift.  Goth.,  ii,  de  nominibus  subst.  et  adject.  Moc- 
sogoth.;  5.  De  Ling.  Cod.  Arg.;  6.  Specimen  Gloss.  Ul- 
phil.,  cum  pi-afationibus.  An  Appendix  to  the  work 
contains  tracts  by  other  writers.  He  wrote  also  De  usu 
LXX  interpretum  in  N.  T.  (Upsal.  1730)  : — De  usu  ac- 
centuum  Hebreeorum  (ibid.  1733).  See  Kitto,  Cyclopadia 
Bib.  Lit.  ii,  377 ; Jocher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.,  Adelung’s  Add. 
ii,  2270  sq. 

I.  H.  S.  is  an  inscription  or  monogram  which  has 
probably  been  used  by  the  Christian  Church  from  an 
early  date  among  the  sacred  symbols  on  church  furni- 
ture, and  in  painted  windows  of  the  house  of  God,  but 
its  use  has  by  no  means  been  confined  to  ecclesiastical 
buildings.  On  tombs,  roofs,  and  walls  of  houses,  on 
books,  and  on  other  possessions  of  Christians,  this  mon- 
ogram has  been,  and  is  even  now,  frequently  impressed, 
especially  among  the  adherents  of  the  Roman,  Greek, 
and  Anglican  chinches.  The  interpretations  which 
have  been  given  of  this  mystic  title  are  threefold.  One 
is  that  they  arc  the  initials  of  the  words  “In  Hoc  Signo," 
borrowed  from  the  luminous  cross  which  it  is  said  was 
miraculously  displayed  in  the  sky  before  Constantine 
I and  his  army.  Others  make  them  the  initials  of  the 
I words  “ Jesus  Hominum  Salvator,"  especially  the  Jes- 
] uits,  who  use  it  for  their  badge  and  motto  in  the  form 
l.rt . S. ; ail(l  still  another,  that  they  are  the  first  three 
I letters  of  the  Greek  1 H20Y2,  Jesus.  This  last  opinion 
has  been  espoused  by  the  late  “Cambridge  Camden  So- 
ciety" in  a work  which  they  published  on  this  subject : 
.1  rgnmentfor  the  Greek  Origin  of  the  Monogram  I.  II.  S. 
(London,  1841).  The  earliest  Christian  emblems  found 
also  seem  to  confirm  this  opinion,  as  they  are  in  every 
ease  written  in  the  Greek  language,  and  “ the  celebrated 
monogram  inscribed  by  Constantine’s  order  on  the  laba- 
rum,  or  standard  of  the  cross,  was  undoubtedly  Greek.” 
Eusebius  ( Eccles . Hist.),  in  describing  the  famous  stand- 
ard, says,  “A  long  spear,  overlaid  with  gold,  formed  the 
figure  of  the  cross  by  means  of  a piece  laid  transversely 
over  it.  On  the  top  of  the  whole  was  fixed  a crown, 
formed  by  the  intertexture  of  gold  and  precious  stones; 
and  on  this  two  letters  indicating  the  name  of  Christ 
symbolized  the  Saviour’s  title  by  means  of  its  first  char- 
acters, the  letter  P being  intersected  by  a X exactly  in 
its  centre;  and  these  letters  the  emperor  was  in  the 
habit  of  wearing  on  his  helmet  at  a later  period.”  In 
regard  to  the  shape  of  the  letter  S being  Roman,  and 


IIM 


495 


ILDEFONSUS 


not  Greek,  The  Church , a paper  of  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land in  Canada,  says,  “ It  might  easily  have  become  cor- 
rupted (i.  e.  the  Greek  2 into  a Latin  S) — it  would  not, 
indeed,  have  been  intelligible  except  to  a few  of  the  best 
scholars  unless  it  were  corrupted— and  so  could  scarcely 
have  escaped  transmutation  when  the  knowledge  of  the 
Greek  tongue,  which  we  are  certified  was  the  case,  per- 
ished, or  very  nearly  so,  during  the  Middle  Ages  in  the 
'Western  Church.” — Staunton,  Eccl . Diet.  p.  882 ; Blunt, 
Eccles.  Diet,  i,  375.  See  Labarum. 

I'lin  (Ileb.  I y ini',  ruins,  as  in  Jer.  xxvi,  18, 

etc.),  the  name  of  two  places. 

1.  (Sept.  Aieip,  Vulg.  Jim.)  A city  in  the  extreme 
south  of  Judah,  mentioned  between  Baalah  and  Azem 
(Josh,  xv,  29),  and  therefore  doubtless  included  within 
the  territory  set  off  to  Simeon,  as  the  associated  places 
were  (Josh,  xix,  3),  which  afford  the  only  means  for  a 
conjectural  position  nearly  midway  from  the  Dead  Sea 
towards  the  Mediterranean. 

2.  (Sept,  mi,  Vulg.  Ijeabarim, both  reading  the  same 
as  in  the  preceding  verse.).  One  of  the  stations  of  the 
Israelites  not  long  before  reaching  the  Jordan  (Numb, 
xxxiii,  45) ; usually  called  fully  Ije-abarim  (ver.  44). 

Ijar.  See  Iyar. 

Ij'e-ab'arim  (Hebrew  Djeh'  ha- Abarim',  “>*2 
a-nairn,  ruins  of  the  Abarim,  or  regions  beyond;  Sept. 
'A \ayai,  but  in  Numb,  xxxiii,  44  simply  mi;  Vulg. 
Jeabarim  and  Ijeabarim ),  the  forty-seventh  station  of 
the  Israelites  on  approaching  Canaan,  described  as  be- 
ing between  Oboth  and  Dibon-gad,  in  the  border  of 
Moab”  (Numb,  xxxiii,  44),  or  between  Oboth  and  the 
brook  Zered,  “ in  the  wilderness  which  is  before  (i.  e. 
east  of)  Moab,  towards  the  sun-rising"  (Numb.xxi,  11), 
and  therefore  not  far  from  Aineh,  a little  south  of  wady 
el-Aliry,  which  forms  the  southern  boundary  of  the  Mo- 
abitisli  territory,  and  lies  near  the  southern  end  of  the 
range  of  Abarim,  that  give  this  compound  form  to  the 
name  (simply  Ini  in  Numb,  xxxiii,  44),  to  distinguish 
it  from  the  lim  of  Judah  (Josh,  xv,  29).  See  Abarim. 

I'jon  (Heb.  I yon ',  place  of  ruins;  Sept.  ’Air, 

A idv,  Aiujv),  a frontier  city  of  the  kingdom  of  Israel, 
mentioned  as  being  captured,  along  with  Abel-Beth- 
Meholah  and  other  places  in  Naphtali,  first  by  Benha- 
dad  of  Syria  (1  Kings  xv,  20;  2 Chron.  xvi,  4),  and  af- 
terwards by  Tiglatli-pileser  of  Assyria  (2  Kings  xv,  29). 
The  associated  names  and  circumstances  render  the  sup- 
position of  Dr.  Kobinson  (Researches,  iii,  346)  very  prob- 
able, that  this  locality  corresponds  to  a large  ruin-cov- 
ereil  hill  called  Tell  Debbin  (Thomson,  Land  and  Book , 
i,  385),  in  the  present  Merj  Ayun  (meadow  of  fountains'), 
a line  meadow  tract  between  wady  et-Teim  and  the 
Litany,  north  of  Lake  lluleh  (comp.  Bibliotheca  Sacra, 
181(5,  p.  204,  214;  new  edition  of  Researches , iii,  375; 
Schwarz,  Palestine,  p.  36). 

Iken,  Konrad,  a German  Protestant  theologian  and 
Hebraist,  born  at  Bremen  Dec.  25,  1689,  was  professor 
of  theology  at  the  gymnasium  of  that  city,  and  pastor 
of  one  of  the  Reformed  churches.  lie  died  June  30, 
1753.  Iken  wrote,  Antiquitates  Hebraicce  (Brem.  1730, 
4to,  5th  ed.,  annotated  by  J.  II.  Schacht,  1810,  8vo) : — 
Thesaurus  Nov.  Theolog.-Philol.  Dissertationum.  exeget- 
icarum  ex  M usceo  Th.  Hasrei  et  Conrad.  Ikenii  (Leyden, 
1732,  2 vols.  fol.) : — De  tempore  celebrates  ultima!  Cana; 
paschalis  Christi  (Bremen,  1735  and  1739,  8vo) ; this 
work  and  the  following  are  directed  against  G.  F.  Gude 
(q.  v.)  : — Dissertatio  quee  contra  Gudinm  demonstratur 
Ccenam  Christi  aravp  that  gov  vere  paschalem  f uisse  (Bre- 
men, 1742,  8vo); — Tractatus  Talmiulicus  de  cultu  quo- 
tidiano  Templi,  quern  versione  Latina  donatum  et  notis  il- 
lustratum  eruditomm  examini  subjicit  Conrad.  Ikenius 
(Bremen,  1736, 4to) : — Synibola;  Utterance  ad  incremmt- 
um  scientiarum  omnis  generis,  a variis  amicis  collate 
(Bremen,  1744-49, 3 vols.  8vo) : — Harmonia  historic;  per- 
pessionum  J.  Christi  (Bremen,  1743, 4to ; 2d  ed.  Utrecht, 
1758, 4to)  : — Dissertationes  philol.-theolog.in  diversa  sac. 


cod.  utriusque  instrumental  ia  loco  (Leyden,  1749, 4to ; 2d 
ed.  augmented,  pub.  by  J.  H.  Shaclit,  Utrecht,  1770, 4to) : 
— De  Institutes  et  Ccerimoniis  Legis  Mosaicw  ante  Mosen 
(Bremen,  1752,  2 parts,  4to). — Hoefer,  A rouv.  Biog.  Gin. 
xxv,  8 sq. ; Kitto,  Cyclop.  Bib.  Lit.  ii,  377.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Ik'kesh  (Heb.  Ikkesh',  perverse,  as  in  Psa.  ci, 
4,  etc.;  Sept.  ’EjcKri^,  ’£ kki'/g,  ’EkkJic),  the  father  of  Ira 
the  Tekoite,  which  latter  was  one  of  David’s  famous 
warriors  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  26;  1 Chron.  xi,  28),  and  cap- 
tain of  the  sixth  regiment  of  his  troops  (1  Chron.  xxvii, 
9).  B.C.  ante  1046. 

Ikonobortsi  is  the  name  of  a small  sect  of  Russian 
dissenters  who  are  opposed  to  paintings,  both  in  church- 
es and  in  private  houses.  See  Russia. 

Ikriti,  Siiemakja  iien-Eliaii,  a Jewish  philosopher 
and  commentator,  originally  from  Rome,  flourished  at 
Negroponte  towards  the  close  of  the  13tli  and  the  open- 
ing of  the  14th  century.  His  father  Eliah  was  a dis- 
tinguished scholar  of  the  island  of  Crete,  whence  he 
derived  his  name.  Sliemarja  devoted  his  early  years 
to  the  study  of  philosophical  writings,  but  later  he  gave 
his  time  almost  exclusively  to  the  study  of  exegesis,  as 
the  result  of  which  he  translated  and  wrote  commenta- 
ries on  all  the  books  of  the  O.  T.,  with  the  exception  of 
Leviticus,  Numbers,  and  Deuteronomy.  His  edition  of 
Genesis,  to  which,  according  to  his  own  statement,  he 
devoted  no  less  than  twenty-five  years,  he  dedicated, 
with  other  works  of  his,  to  king  Robert  of  Naples  (in 
1328).  The  main  object  of  writing  these  commenta- 
ries, which  have  never  yet  been  published,  was  to  rec- 
oncile the  Rabbanites  and  Karaites.  Himself  a Rabba- 
nite,  he  held  that  the  Karaites  were  in  the  wrong  to 
set  aside  altogether  the  Talmudical  traditions;  and  the 
Rabbanites,  he  asserted,  missed  the  mark  also  by  not 
only  assigning  the  first  place  to  the  Talmud,  but  by  dis- 
regarding the  Bible  (comp.  Ozar  Nechnad,  Vien.  1857, 
ii,  93).  But,  whatever  his  success  may  have  been  with 
the  Rabbanites,  he  certainly  failed  to  convince  the  Ka- 
raites, who  read  his  works  extensively,  that  the  Talmu- 
dical Hagada  contained  a deep  meaning  unrevealed  to  the 
superficial  student,  or  to  persuade  them  that  the  Bible 
and  Talmud  both  deserved  a philosophical  interpreta- 
tion. Another  aim  which  Shemarja  is  said  to  have  had 
in  writing  his  commentaries  was  the  union  of  the  follow- 
ers of  Maimonides  (q.  v.)  with  the  old  orthodox  school. 
He  also  wrote  a Logic,  after  the  Greek  style,  and  a He- 
brew Grammar.  See  Gratz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  vii,  318 
sq. ; Carmoly, in  Jost’s  A nnalen  (1839),  p.  69, 155;  Dukes, 
Shir  Shelomo  (Ilannov.  1858),  ii,  4;  Kitto,  Cyclopaedia 
Bill.  Liter,  ii,  377 ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  iii,  27  sq.  (J. 
II.  W.) 

I'lai  (Heb.  Hay',  i.  q.  Cliald.  *1^*,  supreme; 

Sept.  ’H\i),  an  Ahohite,  and  one  of  David’s  chief  heroes 
(1  Chron.  xi,  29) ; called  Zaljion  in  the  parallel  list  (2 
Sam.  xxiii,  28).  B.C.  1046. 

Ildefonsus,  St.,  archbishop  of  Toledo,  was  born  in 
that  city  in  607.  He  studied  under  Isidore  of  Seville, 
became  monk,  then  abbot  of  the  convent  of  Agli,  near 
Toledo,  and  was  finally  made  archbishop  of  his  native 
city  in  658.  According  to  Julian  of  Toledo,  Ildefonsus 
composed  a large  number  of  works,  most  of  which,  how- 
ever, were  left  unfinished.  The  only  Avritings  supposed 
to  be  authentic  that  we  now  possess  under  his  name  are, 
De  illibata  b.  Virginis  rirginitate  (in  the  Biblioth.  Patr., 
Lugd.,  xii) : — two  books,  De  cognitione  baptismi  et  de.  iti- 
nere  deserti  quo  pergitur  post  baptismum,  a rule  of  faith 
and  conduct  for  converts : — a continuation  of  Isidorus’s 
De  viris  illustribns,  beginning  with  Gregory  the  Great, 
and  containing  notices  of  thirteen  other  Avriters,  mostly 
Spanish  bishops  (in  F abricius,  Bibl. eccles.  p.  60  sq.).  One 
of  his  successors  in  the  see  of  Toledo,  St.  Julian  (680-690), 
added  to  this  a Vita  Ildefonsi  Toletani,  from  Avhich  al- 
most all  our  information  concerning  Ildefonsus  is  de- 
riA'ed.  Tavo  letters  of  his,  Avith  ansivers  by  Quirinus, 
bishop  of  Barcelona,  are  found  in  D’Achery,  Sjncil.  The 


ILGEN  496  ILLUMINATI 


Adoptianists  (q.  v.),  in  the  8th  century,  quoted  the  writ- 
ings of  Eugenius,  I Idefonsus,  Julianus,  Toletunie  sedis  an- 
tistites,  as  favoring  their  peculiar  views  (see  Aleuin,  Opp. 
ii,  568).  See  the  Bollamlists,  Jan.  23d ; Gregorio  INI  ay-  . 
ans,  I Ida  de  S.Ildefonso  (Valentia,  1727, 12mo) ; Baro-  ( 
nius,  A nnales,  GG7,  No.  5,  6 ; Baillet,  I ies  des  Plaints,  Jan. 
23d.  — Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  633;  Hoefer,  Nouv. 
Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  611  sq. ; Neander,  Ch.  Hist . iii,  581. 

Ilgen,  Kari.  David,  an  eminent  German  theologian, 
was  born  February  26, 1763,  at  the  village  of  Selina,  in 
Prussian  Saxony.  When  fourteen  years  old  he  was 
able  to  enter  the  second  class  in  the  gymnasium  of 
Naumburg;  but  his  parents  being  unable  to  give  him 
any  further  help,  he  was  from  that  time  obliged  to  de- 
pend on  his  own  exertions  alone.  His  struggle  for  sub- 
sistence strengthened  his  mind,  and  in  1783,  with  a good 
elementary  education,  he  entered  the  University  of  Leip- 
zig. Here  were  written  his  first  essays,  -which  are  to  be 
found  in  the  collection  of  his  works  entitled  Opuscula 
philologica  (Erford,  1797, 2 vols.).  He  applied  himself 
with  particular  zeal  to  the  study  of  the  Oriental  lan- 
guages, especially  the  Hebrew.  In  1789  he  was  called  to 
the  rectorship  of  the  Academy  of  Naumburg,  and  so  dis- 
tinguished himself  as  an  instructor  that  five  years  after- 
wards he  was  called  as  professor  of  Oriental  languages 
to  Jena,  and  there  he  was  finally  transferred  to  the 
chair  of  theology.  In  spite  of  his  eminent  attainments, 
his  bluntness  and  dryness  of  manner  prevented  his  be- 
ing as  efficient  in  his  new  sphere  of  action  as  he  might 
otherwise  have  been.  His  learning  was  better  display- 
ed in  his  writings  than  in  his  lectures.  He  began  to 
write  a work  on  the  “Historical  Documents  of  the  Tem- 
ple of  Jerusalem,”  for  which  he  intended  to  make  a thor- 
ough investigation  of  all  the  Jewish  sayings,  traditions, 
anti  fables,  and  to  compare  them  with  what  historical 
knowledge  we  possess  on  the  same  points,  so  as  to  se- 
cure a history  of  the  Jews,  their  political  institutions, 
their  mode  of  divine  worship,  their  moral,  religious,  and 
intellectual  state,  such  as  would  truly  have  deserved  the 
name  of  a critically  correct  history;”  but,  through  the 
agency  of  G.  Hermann,  this  work  was  interrupted  by  a 
call  as  rector  to  Pforte  (in  Prussian  Saxony)  (1802). 
He  held  this  position  for  twenty-nine  years,  and  ful- 
filled its  duties  with  distinguished  ability.  In  1816  he 
was  appointed  counsellor  of  the  Consistory.  In  1831  he 
was  compelled  to  ask  for  his  discharge,  and  retired  to 
Berlin,  where  he  died  September  17, 1834.  All  that  he 
has  left  us  of  any  value,  besides  the  I>e  Jobi  antiquis- 
simi  car-minis  Ilebr.  natura  atque  virtnte  (Lcips.  1789), 
is  a few  philosophical  treatises  which  he  wrote  during 
his  rectorship  at  Pforte. — Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  633 
sq. ; Kitto,  Cyclop.  Bib.  Lit.  ii,  378. 

Hive,  Jacob,  an  English  infidel,  bom  in  1710,  was 
both  a printer  and  a type-founder  by  trade.  In  1733 
he  published  a discourse  to  prove  the  plurality  of  worlds. 
He  maintained  that  earth  is  a hell,  and  that  the  souls 
of  men  are  fallen  angels.  Before  and  after  this  publica- 
tion he  lectured  publicly  on  the  same  topic.  In  the 
same  year,  1733,  he  published  another  work,  entitled 
A Dialogue  between  a Doctor  of  the  Church  of  England 
and  Nr.  Jacob  Ilive  upon  the  subject  of  the  Oration.  In 
1751  he  published  what  claimed  to  be  a translation  of 
The  Book  of  Jasher,  which  he  attributed  to  a certain 
Aleuin  of  Brittany,  although  he -was  himself  the  real  au- 
thor (see  I lorne’s  Bill.  Bib.).  Another  pamphlet,  enti- 
tled Modest  Remarks  on  Bishop  Sherlock's  Sermons,  caused 
him  to  be  condemned  to  two  years’  imprisonment.  Dur- 
ing his  forced  residence  at  Clerkcnwell  Bridewell,  he 
wrote  Reasons  offered  for  the  Reformation  of  the  House 
of  Correction  in  Clerkenwell.  Ilive,  however,  did  some 
real  sendee  to  Biblical  statistics  in  publishing  a second 
edition  of  Calasio,  Concorduntim  Sacrorum  Bibliorum 
(Lond.  1747, 4 vols.  fob).  See  Gough,  Brit.  Topography ; 
Wilson,  Hist,  of  Dissenting  Churches;  Chalmers,  Gen. 
Biog.  Diet.)  Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  814; 
Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliog.  ii,  1605.  (J.  N.  P.) 


Illatio  is  a term  used  in  old  rituals  of  the  Mass  for 
prafatio, 

Illescas,  Jacob  de  (irxp’.^*'”!  ^pS.*"'),  a Jew- 
ish philosopher  and  commentator,  flourished  in  the  14th 
century  at  Illecas,  not  far  from  Madrid,  whence  his  fam- 
ily derived  their  name.  He  wrote  a Commentary  on  the 
Pentateuch  (contained  in  Frankfurter’s  great  Rabbinic 
Bible ) in  an  allegorical,  cabalistic  sense,  with  many  val- 
uable grammatical  explanations  of  difficult  passages. 
He  also  paid  particular  attention  to  obscure  passages  of 
Kashi  and  Aben-Ezra’s  expositions  on  this  portion  of 
the  Hebrew  Scriptures,  and  freely  quotes  other  celebra- 
ted Jewish  literati,  as  Lekach  Tob,  Joseph,  Tara,  Be- 
chor  Shor,  Jehudali  the  Pious,  Isaac  of  Vienna,  Moses 
de  Coney,  Aaron,  Eljakim,  the  Tosafoth,  etc.  See  Kit- 
to, Cyclop.  Biblical  Liter,  ii,  378 ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud. 
ii,  91. 

Illgen,  Christian  Friedrich,  a German  theolo- 
gian, was  born  at  Chemnitz,  in  Saxony,  Sept.  16, 1786, 
studied  at  the  University  of  Leipzig,  where  he  first  lec- 
tured, and  then  became  extraordinary  professor  of  phi- 
lology in  1818,  of  theology  in  1823,  ordinary  professor 
of  theology  in  1825,  and  finally  canon,  lie  was  partic- 
ularly distinguished  for  his  knowledge  of  theological 
history.  He  died  Aug.  4, 1844.  His  principal  works 
are,  Latins  Socinus,  Leben  (Lpz.  1814  and  1826,  2 parts, 
4to)  : — Memoria  utriusque  catechismi  Lutheri  (Leipzig, 
1829-30) : — Historia  cotlegii philobiblici  (1836-40): — A b~ 
handlung  ii.  den  Werth  der  christlichen  Dogmengeschichte 
(1817);  and  a collection  o(  Predigten : die  Verklarung  d. 
ircKschen  Lebens  dvrch  d.  Evangelium  (1823).  He  found- 
ed the  Historical  Theological  Society,  and  from  1825  to 
the  time  of  liis  death  lie  edited  the  Zeitschrift  fur  hist. 
Theol.  See  S.  Bruno  Lindner,  Erinnerungen  an  Dr.  Ill- 
gen in  the  Zeitschrift  f.  d.  historische  Theologie  (1845),  p. 
3 ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gener.  xxv,  814 ; Herzog,  Iteal- 
Encyklopddie,  vi,  635. 

Illuminated  {(ptorffopevoi)  was  a term  used  in  the 
early  Christian  Church  for  the  baptized.  See  Baptism. 
The  apostle  Paul  writes  in  two  places  (Heb.  vi,  4 ; x, 
32)  of  those  who  were  (pwTinj'tvTtQ ; and  the 

Council  of  Laodicea  (A.D.  372),  in  its  third  canon,  calls 
the  newly  baptized  TrpoGQaTbjg  (pajTioSkvTac.  Justin 
1 Martyr,  in  his  second  Apology,  explains  the  name  to  re- 
1 fer  to  the  spiritual  knowledge  acquired  by  those  who 
1 were  baptized,  and  there  was  probabhr  an  association 
between  the  term  and  the  ritual  use  of  lights  in  the 
baptismal  service — Blunt,  Cyclop,  of  Theol.  i,  323.  By 
1 some,  however,  the  title  “illuminated”  is  supposed  to 
j have  been  given  to  those  newly  baptized  in  the  early 
1 Church,  because  a lighted  taper  was  put  into  their  hands 
as  a symbol  of  their  enlightenment.  Sec  Lights.  (J. 
H.  W.) 

Illuminati,  a name  assumed  at  different  periods  by 
sects  of  Mystics  or  Enthusiasts  and  Theosoplis,  who 
claim  a greater  degree  of  illumination  or  perfection  than 
other  men. 

1.  The  first  sect  known  under  this  name  was  a 
party  of  mystic  enthusiasts  who  made  their  appearance 
’ in  Spain  about  1575,  and  who  also  bore  the  name  of 
A lumbrados  or  A lombrados.  They  considered  prayer 
as  such  an  efficacious  means  of  union  with  God  that  the 
soul  of  man  could  by  it  become  entirely  identified  with 

• the  nature  of  God,  so  that  its  actions  would  therefore  be 

• really  the  actions  of  God  himself ; and  they  further  held 
[ that  for  such  persons  good  works,  the  sacraments,  etc., 

• are  superfluous  as  a means  of  sanctification.  (We  invite 
! here  to  a comparison  of  the  doctrines  of  this  sect  with 
> the  Jesuits,  when  first  instituted  by  Ignatius  Loyola. 
; See  Iianke,  History  of  the  Popes,  transl.  by  Mrs.  Austin, 
l i,  190.)  They  were  persecuted  by  the  Inquisition,  and 
>,  then  disappeared  from  Spain ; but  in  1623  they  rcap- 
: peared  in  France,  under  the  name  of  Guerinets,  a sect 
. very  similar  to  the  Alombrados  of  Spain,  a sort  of  Ulu- 
; minati,but  who,  in  addition  to  the  mystic  belief  of  the 

Alombrados,  believed  in  a special  revelation  of  perfecti- 


ILLUMINATI  497  ILLUMINATI 


bility,  made  to  one  of  their  number,  a friar,  whose  name  | 
was  Bouquet.  But  they  also  soon  became  extinct,  and 
were  no  longer  known  in  France  in  1635. 

Another  very  similar  sect  arose  in  Belgium. 

2.  But  the  name  of  “ Illuminati”  was  really  first  given 
to  an  association  of  Deists  and  Republicans  which  was 
founded  May  1, 1776,  by  Adam  Weishaupt,  professor  of 
canon  law  at  the  University  of  Ingolstadt.  This  “or- 
der,” which,  by  its  founder,  was  first  called  the  Order  of 
the  Perfect ibilists,  was  established  on  a masonic  founda- 
tion like  that  of  the  organization  of  the  Jesuits.  They 
announced  as  their  aim  to  elevate  mankind  to  the  high- 
est possible  degree  of  moral  purity,  and  to  lay  the  foun- 
dation for  the  reformation  of  the  world  by  organizing 
an  association  of  the  best  men  to  oppose  the  progress 
of  moral  evil  Practically,  however,  the  “order”  soon 
evinced  tendencies  dangerous  alike  to  Church  and  State. 
In  their  opposition  to  religious  and  political  Jesuitism, 
which  at  that  time,  in  Roman  Catholic  Germany,  im- 
posed unbearable  restraints  on  the  human  mind,  they 
aimed  at  nothing  less  than  revolutionizing  religion, 
abolishing  Christianity  in  order  to  substitute  reason  in 
its  place,  deposing  all  civil  powers,  and  establishing  a 
nominal  republican  government.  Weishaupt  himself, 
however,  was  a very  honorable  man,  actuated  by  the 
purest  motives,  and  zealous  for  the  religious  and  polit- 
ical improvement  of  mankind.  The  most  active  disciple, 
through  whose  influence  the  society  increased  with  ex- 
traordinary rapidity,  was  the  baron  Adolph  von  Ivnigge, 
who  joined  the  Illuminati  in  1780.  The  baron  main- 
tained that  Christianity  was  not  so  much  a popular  re- 
ligion as  a system  exclusively  applicable  to  the  elect, 
and  that,  introduced  by  the  Mj’stics,  it  had  found  its 
form  of  highest  development  in  Freemasonry.  Only 
a small  number  of  the  elect  were  allowed  an  insight  into 
the  ultimate  object  of  the  new  organization,  but  the 
whole  system  was  made  profusely  attractive  to  a certain 
class  of  minds  by  mysterious  ceremonies  and  forms.  The 
order  aimed  steadfastly  at  obtaining  the  control  of  the 
higher  offices  in  Church  and  State ; and,  although  lib- 
erty and  equality  were  proclaimed  as  its  fundamental 
principles,  it  sought  absolute  supremacy.  With  a view 
to  reach  that  end,  Weishaupt,  who  had  himself  been  a 
Jesuit,  finally  made  use  of  the  same  means  by  which 
the  Jesuits  had  been  so  successful.  Thus  he  sought 
to  win  over  to  his  side  all  persons  of  any  influence ; to 
surround  rulers  with  members  of  the  order;  to  make 
proselytes  of  men  weak  in  mind  but  strong  of  purse, 
while  at  the  same  time  he  excluded  such  as,  on  ac- 
count of  their  pride  or  their  strength  of  character,  would 
be  unlikely  to  prove  pliant  subjects,  or  whose  want  of 
discretion  might  injure  the  order.  Strict,  unquestioning, 
and  blind  obedience  was  made  the  first  duty  of  every 
member;  every  one  was  under  the  direct  control  of  his 
immediate  superiors,  and  knew,  in  fact,  no  other  mem- 
bers of  the  order.  Aside  from  this,  each  member  was 
subject  to  a private  supervision,  which  extended  to  the 
head  of  the  society ; “ and  the  Illuminati  were  soon  in- 
volved in  a system  of  mutual  espionage,  confession,  and 
the  like,  essentially  inconsistent  with  true  freedom,  but 
calculated  to  place  the  threads  all  in  one  hand,  by  which 
the  holy  legion  was  to  be  led  on,  as  it  was  imagined,  to 
the  benefaction  of  mankind.”  Only  such  persons  as 
were  distinguished  for  prudence,  wisdom,  complete  ab- 
negation for  self,  and  zeal  for  the  interest  of  the  society, 
were  admitted  to  the  higher  degrees,  wherein  the  mys- 
teries of  the  higher  order  were  revealed  to  them,  while 
those  of  the  lower  degrees  hardly  suspected  their  exist- 
ence. These  mysteries  related  to  religion,  on  which 
subject  they  were  of  the  character  of  naturalism  and 
free-thinking ; and  to  politics,  in  regard  to  which  the 
aim  was  to  replace  monarchy  by  republicanism  and  so- 
cialism. An  active  correspondence  was  kept  up  be- 
tween the  chiefs  and  the  members  of  the  order  in  the 
different  districts  where  lodges  were  established.  It 
was  carried  on  by  means  of  a cipher,  generally  of  the 
usual  figures ; but  the  higher  orders  also  made  use  of 
IV.— 1 1 


other  signs.  The  months  were  designated  by  particu- 
lar names;  thus  January  became  Dimeh, February  Zfere- 
meh ; and  Germany  was  called  the  Orient , Bavaria  A chain, 
Munich  Athens.  The  order  was  represented  by  O,  a 
lodge  by  | — '.  The  letters  addressed  to  a superior  were 
marked  Q.  L.,  i.  e.  Quibus  licet,  to  open  the  letter;  if  the 
letter  was  addressed  to  one  of  the  higher  chiefs,  it  was 
marked  Soli;  and  if  to  one  still  superior,  Primo.  Each 
one  of  the  Illuminati  was,  besides,  known  in  the  order  by 
some  particular  name.  Thus  the  founder  went  by  the  om- 
inous appellation  of  Spartacus;  Knigge  by  that  of  Philo, 
etc.  The  attractions  which  the  order  presented  by  its 
mysterious  secret  forms,  and  the  extraordinary  energy 
and  Jesuitical  acumen  winch  the  leaders  brought  to  bear 
on  their  undertaking,  soon  swelled  its  numbers,  and, 
during  its  most  prosperous  period,  the  association  con- 
sisted of  over  2000  members,  among  them  some  of  the 
most  prominent  names  of  Germany,  and  even  princes, 
who,  however,  could  only  be  initiated  into  the  lower 
orders,  as  the  higher  mysteries  of  the  order  inculcated 
republicanism.  The  head-quarters  of  the  order  were 
in  Bavaria,  which,  with  Suabia  and  Franconia,  formed 
the  first  province  of  the  association  in  Germany,  and  it 
was  not  only  established  in  all  the  principal  cities  of 
Germany,  but  also  gained  a foothold  in  France,  Belgi- 
um, Holland,  Denmark,  Sweden,  Poland,  Hungary,  and 
Italy. 

As  regards  its  interior  organization,  the  order  was  es- 
tablished on  the  basis  of  the  Society  of  Jesus,  of  which, 
as  we  have  already  observed,  Weishaupt  had  once  been 
a member.  In  1777  he  had  joined  the  freemasons. 
From  the  first  it  had  been  his  aim  to  connect  his  new 
society  with  freemasonry,  for  the  purpose  of  giving  it  a 
firmer  foundation,  and  with  the  ultimate  object  of  final- 
ly absorbing  the  latter  in  the  former.  Knigge’s  activi- 
ty and  enterprise  finally  succeeded  in  bringing  the  Illu. 
minati  to  be  considered  as  freemasons  by  the  craft,  but 
this  step  made  new  enemies  for  the  Illuminati,  and  ul- 
timately caused  their  overthrow.  Knigge  modelled  the 
material  organization  of  the  society  after  that  of  free- 
masonry, dividing  the  members  into  three  classes,  each 
of  which  was  again  composed  of  several  degrees.  The 
first,  a preparatory  class,  was  composed  of  novices,  Mi- 
nervites,  and  Illuminati  minores.  Any  man  eighteen 
years  of  age  could  become  a novice,  and  on  his  conduct 
depended  his  promotion  to  the  next  degree,  which  could 
be  effected  after  one,  two,  or  three  years.  The  second 
class,  or  that  of  freemasons,  embraced  apprentices,  ma- 
sons, and  master-masons,  besides  the  two  higher  grades 
of  Illuminatus  major  and  of  IUuminatus  dirigens,  or 
Scottish  knights.  These  latter  had  the  control  of  the 
Minervile  lodges.  The  third  class,  or  that  of  the  “Mys- 
teries,” was  divided  into  higher  and  lesser  mysteries ; 
the  latter  embraced  the  priests  and  the  regents,  or  mem- 
bers to  whom  had  been  imparted  the  mysterious  aims 
of  the  society  in  regard  to  religion  and  politics.  The 
initiation  to  the  degree  of  regent  was  conducted  with 
great  solemnity,  and  was  very  impressive.  The  adepts 
of  the  higher  mysteries  were  also  of  two  degrees,  the 
Magnus  and  the  Rex,  to  whom  the  principles  of  natu- 
ralism, republicanism,  and  socialism  were  further  devel- 
oped. These  were  the  Areopagites  of  the  order,  and 
had  no  superiors  bnt  the  secret  council,  presided  over  by 
the  general  of  the  order  (Weishaupt),  which  composed 
the  highest  court  of  appeal  for  all  members  of  the  order. 

A jealous  feeling  and  contention  for  leadership  which 
sprang  up  between  Weishaupt  and  Knigge,  and  a differ- 
ence of  opinion  of  the  two  greatest  heads  of  the  society 
on  many  points  of  organization  and  discipline,  hastened 
the  decline  of  the  order,  especially  after  Knigge  had  left 
it  (July  1,  1784).  As  soon  as  the  State  and  Church- 
disturbing  tendency,  which  for  a time  had  remained 
hidden,  became  known,  the  order  was  vehemently  de- 
nounced. June  22, 1784,  the  elector  of  Bavaria  issued 
an  edict  for  its  suppression.  But  the  society  continued 
to  exist  in  secret.  When,  however,  the  authorities  had 
succeeded  in  obtaining  further  evidences  of  the  danger- 


ILLUMIX  ATIO 


498 


ILLYRICUM 


ous  tendency  of  the  order  by  securing  some  of  the  pa- 
pers of  the*  association  (which  they  published),  they 
punished  the  members  by  fine,  imprisonment,  and  exile. 
Many  quit  the  country,  among  them  XVeisliaupt  (Feb. 
16, 1785),  on  whose  head  a price  had  been  set.  He  fled 
to  Gotha  (some  say  Halle),  and  resided  there  until  his 
death,  Nov.  18, 1830.  Edicts  were  again  published  by 
the  elector  of  Bavaria,  March  2 and  August  16,  1785, 
which,  by  the  severe  punishment  which  it  threaten- 
ed to  members,  caused  the  rapid  decline  of  the  order, 
and  they  disappeared  altogether  towards  the  close  of  the 
last  century  (eighteenth).  “ Great  importance  was  at 
one  time  attached  to  the  order  of  the  Illuminati,  whose 
secret  influence  was  regarded  as  a principal  cause  of 
many  of  the  political  events  of  the  time  of  the  French 
Revolution,  and  the  works  of  Abbe  Barruel  and  of  Pro- 
fessor Robison  of  Edinburgh  upon  this  subject  were  ea- 
gerly read,  but  the  highly  exaggerated  character  of 
their  views  is  now  generally  acknowledged.”  See  Her- 
zog, Real- Encyklop.  vi,  636;  Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  519; 
Grosse  Absichten  d.  Ordens  d.  Illuminaten,  etc.,  v on  vier 
ehemaligen  Mitgliedern  (Munich,  1786) ; Nachtrag  z.d. 
grossen  Absichten  (Alim.  1786);  Grundsatze,  Verfassung 
u.  Schicksale  d.  Illuminatenordens  in  Bayern  (1786); 
XVeishaupt,  A pologie  d.  Illuminaten  (Frank.  1786) ; same, 
Einleitung  z.meiner  A pologie  (Frank.  1787) ; same,  Das 
verbesserte  System  d.  Illuminaten , etc.  (Frank.  1787)  ; 
Philo’s  (Knigge’s)  Endliche  Erklarung  und  Antwort , 
etc.  (Hannov.  1788) ; Die  neuen  A rbeiten  d.  Spartacus  u. 
Philo  in  d.  Illuminatenordcn,  etc.  (1794);  Voss,  Ueber  d. 
Illuminatenorden  (1799);  Einige  Originalsch  riften  d.  Il- 
luminatenordens, etc.,  avfhiichsten  Bejehl  z.  Druck  befor- 
dert (Munch.  1787) ; Nachtragv.  weiteren Originalschrift- 
en,  und  der  Illuminatensekte  iiberhaupt,  etc.  (Munch. 
1787) ; Henke,  Kirchengesch.  vii,  206  sq. ; Zeitschrijl  f 
hist.  Theol.  vi,  art.  ii ; Ersch  und  Gruber,  A llgem.  Encyklop. 
sect,  ii,  xvi,  206  sq. ; Kaknis,  German  Protestantism,  p. 
59  sq.  See  Mystics.  (J.  H.  XV.) 

Itluminatio  {sacramentum  illuminationis ).  See 
Illuminated. 

Illumination,  Art  of.  The  art  of  illuminating 
manuscripts  with  gold  and  color  seems  to  prevail  in 
countries  where  the  art  of  printing  is  unknown.  It  has 
been  erroneously  supposed  to  have  been  originated  by 
Christianity;  it  is  certain,  however,  that  under  its  sway 
it  was  brought  to  its  known  perfection.  The  time  when 
the  Christians  first  adapted  the  art  of  illumination  it  is 
impossible  to  determine  definitely,  but  it  most  probably 
dates  from  the  time  when  the  ancient  fashion  of  rolled 
manuscripts  (comp,  the  article  Tiiorah),  which  the  Jews 
still  preserve,  was  changed  for  the  present  book  form. 
The  earliest  specimens  extant  are  from  the  first  half  of 
the  2d  century;  and  we  find  St.  Jerome,  uo  later  than  the 
4th  century,  complaining  of  the  abuse  of  filling  up  books 
with  ornamental  capital  letters  of  an  enormous  size.  In 
the  5th  century  many  of  the  MSS.  were  illuminated, 
especially  copies  of  the  Gospels  and  other  Scriptures. 
They  were  written  on  a blue  ground  in  silver,  with  the 
name  of  God  in  gold.  By  the  influence  of  Byzantine 
luxury  there  were  even  produced  some  copies  on  & gilded 
ground  in  letters  of  black.  One  of  the  best  specimens  of 
the  perfection  to  which  the  art  had  been  brought  in  that 
century  is  the  Codex  A rgentens,  or  copy  of  the  Gothic 
(Ulphilas’s)  version  of  the  N.  T.  in  letters  of  silver,  with 
the  initials  in  gold,  now  preserved  in  the  royal  library 
at  Upsala.  It  is  also  supposed  that  at  that  time  the  va- 
rious schools  of  illumination  originated.  “Rome  had 
succumbed  to  barbarian  violence,  and  her  arts,  though 
decaying,  still  exerted  au  influence  in  this  new  style  of 
painting,  then  in  its  infancy.  That  influence  was  natu- 
rally stronger  in  Italy,  and  therefore  the  early  illumina- 
tions of  the  Italian  school  bear  traces  of  the  old  Roman 
style.  In  France  the  same  influence  ivas  manifest,  mix- 
ed up  with  national  peculiarities,  and  this  school  was 
consequently  called  the  Franco-Roman.”  But,  remark- 
able as  it  may  appear,  it  is  now  found  that  Ireland  was 
far  in  advance  of  other  nations  in  the  knowledge  of  this 


art,  as  she  was  generally  in  advance  of  them  in  the 
scale  of  civilization.  “Her  fame  had  extended  over 
Europe,  her  monasteries  were  adorned  with  men  of 
great  piety  and  learning,  who  were  the  trainers  of  the 
leading  spirits  of  the  age.  She  was  the  first  to  break 
through  the  dense  darkness  of  the  times,  and,  as  she 
gave  Christianity  to  Scotland,  so  she  also  imparted  to 
the  Saxons  the  art  of  illumination.”  The  first  illumi- 
uator  seems  to  have  been  Dagieus,  abbot  of  Iniskeltra, 
who  flourished  in  the  second  half  of  the  6th  century. 
Of  English  illumination,  the  finest  specimen  extant  is 
from  the  10th  century,  the  celebrated  “ Benedictional" 
by  St.  Ethelwold,  bishop  of  Winchester,  written  and 
painted  between  963  and  984.  In  the  13th  century,  and 
even  down  to  its  decline  three  centimes  later,  the  art 
was  greatly  furthered  by  Bonaventura’s  series  of  medi- 
tations on  the  life  of  Christ,  which  gave  minute  descrip- 
tions of  the  several  scenes  of  which  it  treated,  and  thus 
formed  a sort  of  ideal.  During  the  Byzantine  period  it 
was  mainly  the  Scriptures,  the  works  of  the  fathers,  and 
books  for  Church  service  generally  that  were  illumina- 
ted. Later,  volumes  for  private  devotion  were  also  thus 
enriched,  until,  at  the  close  of  the  15th  century,  the  art 
of  illumination  was  generally  applied  not  only  to  books, 
but  to  MSS.  of  almost  any  sort.  The  invention  of  print- 
ing seemed  to  sound  its  death-knell,  and  it  is  not  to  he 
wondered  at  that  the  monks,  who,  being  cut  off  from 
secular  business,  and  having  found  employment  by  the 
application  of  this  art,  then  made  a strong  resistance  to 
the  introduction  of  an  art  that  would  deprive  them, 
sooner  or  later,  of  their  own  employment.  But  the 
popular  mind  had  become  so  accustomed  to  the  illumi- 
nation of  works,  that  its  extinction  was  much  more 
gradual  than  had  been  anticipated,  and  the  earliest 
printed  books  were  not  only  illuminated,  but  the  print- 
ers even  attempted,  by  a process  of  their  art,  to  super- 
sede manual  labor.  Perhaps  the  latest  effort  of  this 
kind  was  an  edition  of  the  Liturgy,  brought  out  in  1717 
by  John  Short,  entirely  engraved  on  copper  plates. 
“The  pages  were  surrounded  by  borders,  and  embel- 
lished with  pictures  and  decorated  initial  letters.” 
See  Hill,  English  Monasticism,  eh.  xii,  where  may  also 
be  found  the  details  of  the  work  as  it  was  carried  on 
for  centuries  in  the  various  monasteries  of  Europe. — 
Brarnle  and  Cox,  Diet,  of  Science,  Literature,  and  Art,  ii, 

! 193  sq. 

Illuminism.  See  Illuminati  ; Rationalism. 

Illyes,  Andreas,  a Hungarian  prelate,  was  born  at 
Szont-Gvoergy,  in  Transylvania,  in  the  first  half  of  the 
17th  century,  and  educated  at  Rome.  On  his  return  to 
his  native  country  he  filled  several  positions  of  trust, 
then  went  to  Posen  as  canon,  and  later  became  bishop 
of  AVeissenburg.  On  account  of  the  political  disturb- 
ances in  Transylvania  he  removed  to  Vienna.  The 
time  of  his  death  is  not  generally  known.  He  publish- 
ed Yerbum  adverbiarum,  74  sermons  in  Hungarian  (Vi- 
enna, 1693, 4to) : — Vitce  sanctorum  (ibid.  1693),  in  Him- 
garian  (Tyraan,  1705,  and  often),  etc. — Jocher,  Gelehrt. 
Lex.  Add.  ii,  2276. 

Illyrica,  Council  of  ( Concilium  Ilh/ricum),  held  in 
j the  year  375,  according  to  Ceillier  and  Ilefele,  by  order 
of  the  emperor  Valentinian.  It  was  attended  by  a large 
number  of  bishops,  who  met  to  consider  the  doctrine  of 
the  consubstantiality  of  the  three  divine  persons,  as  it 
had  been  set  forth  at  Nica?a.  They  issued  a synodal 
letter  to  the  churches  of  Asia,  etc.,  confirming  the  doc- 
trine with  great  emphasis,  and  they  further  decreed 
that  the  homousiastical  trinity  doctrine  should  be  ev- 
erywhere taught,  and  all  those  who  should  reject  it  be 
punished  by  anathema.  See  Hefele,  Conciliengesch.  i, 
716  sq. ; Landon,  Man.  of  Councils,  p.  266  sq.  See  Ari- 
ANISM. 

Illyr'icum  (TXXi’pueoi'i  \\t.  Illyrian, but  the  word  is 
of  unknown  though  prob.  native  etymology),  or  Illyria, 
a country  lying  to  the  north-west  of  Macedonia,  and 
answering  nearly  to  that  which  is  at  present  called  Dal- 


ILLYKICUS 


499 


IMAGE  OF  GOD 


matin  ; by  which  name,  indeed,  the  southern  part  of  II- 
lyricum  itself  was  known,  and  whither  St.  Paul  informs 
Timothy  that  Titus  had  gone  (2  Tim.  iv,  10).  The 
apostle  Paul,  in  his  third  great  missionary  journey,  after 
traversing  Asia  Minor  and  Macedonia,  tells  the  Church  of 
Rome  that  “round  about  untolllyricum  (KvicXty  jutypt  rov 
T\\ vpncov)  I have  fully  preached  the  Gospel  of  Christ” 
(Korn,  xv,  19).  The  exact  meaning  of  the  passage  is 
somewhat  doubtful.  The  KvtcXog  may  be  joined  with  Je- 
rusalem, and  signify  its  neighborhood  (as  Alford,  ad  Ioc.) ; 
or  it  may  be  joined  with  the  /itypt  rot)  'lXXvptKov,  and 
denote  the  circuit  of  the  apostle’s  journey  “as  far  as  lllyr- 
icum”  (an  expression  warranted  by  the  indefinite  phrase 
of  Luke,  “ those  parts,”  Acts  xx,  2).  Through  the  south- 
ern part  of  Illyria  proper  ran  the  great  road  called  Via 
Egnatia,  which  connected  Italy  and  the  East,  beginning 
at  Apollonia  and  Dyrrhachium,  passing  through  Thessa- 
loniea  and  Philippi,  and  terminating  at  the  Hellespont 
(.1  ntonini  Itinerarium , ed.  Wessel.,  p.  3171  Along  this 
road  Paul  may  have  travelled  on  his  third  journey  till  he 
reached  that  region  on  the  shore  of  the  Adriatic  which 
was  called  lllyricum.  From  Dyrrhachium  he  may  have 
turned  north  into  that  district  of  lllyricum  then  called 
Dalmatia,  and  may  have  founded  the  churches  subse- 
quently visited  by  Titus  (2  Tim.  iv,  10).  Afterwards 
he  may  have  gone  southwards  by  Nicopolis  to  Corinth, 
(lint  see  Conybeare  and  llowson,  Life  of  St.  Paid , i,  389 ; 
ii,  128, 1st  ed.)  lllyricum  is  a wild  and  bare  mountain- 
ous region.  A ridge  of  rugged  limestone  mountains 
runs  through  it  from  north  to  south,  affording  a fitting 
home  for  a number  of  wild  tribes,  who  now,  as  in  an- 
cient times,  inhabit  the  country.  The  coast-line  is 
deeply  indented,  and  possesses  some  excellent  harbors 
(Grote,  History  of  Greece,  vol.  iv ; Wilkinson,  Dalmatia 
and  Montenegro ).  Its  boundaries  were  not  very  dis- 
tinct; Pliny  (iii,  28)  and  Strabo  (vii,313)  placing  it  east 
of  the  Adriatic  Gulf,  while  Ptolemy  (ii,  17)  divides  it 
into  Liburnia,  Iapodia,  and  Dalmatia  (compare  Mannert, 
vii,  30G).  The  earliest  notices  state  that  certain  tribes 
called  lAXuptoi  inhabited  the  mountainous  region  along 
the  eoast  between  Epirus  and  Liburnia  (Scylax,  eh.  xix 
sq.).  On  the  invasion  of  the  country  by  the  Goths, 
these  tribes  were  scattered  eastward  and  northward, 
and  gave  their  name  to  a wider  region;  and  this  was 
probably  the  geographical  import  of  the  name  as  used 
by  Paul.  At  a later  period  lllyricum  became  one  of  the 
four  great  divisions  of  the  Roman  empire,  and  embraced 
the  whole  country  lying  between  the  Adriatic,  the  Dan- 
ube, the  Black  Sea,  and  Macedonia  (Gibbon’s  Roman 
Empire,  chap.  i).  The  best  ancient  description  of  it  is 
that  of  Appian  (Bell.  Illgr.),  and  among  moderns  that 
of  Cramer  ( Ancient  Greece,  i,  29  sq.).  See  Dalmatia. 
(For  its  history,  see  Anthon’s  Class.  Diet.  s.v.) — Smith, 
Diet,  of  Class.  Geog.  s.  v. ; Kitto. 

Illyricus.  See  Flacius  (Matthias). 

Image  (prop.  £212,  tse’lem;  shewn;  but  also  desig- 
nated by  various  other  Hebrew  terms ; often  rendered 
“graven  image,”  “molten  image,”  etc.).  See  Idol. 
For  the  interpretation  of  the  colossal  statue  of  Nebu- 
chadnezzar’s dream  (Dan.  ii,  31),  see  Daniel,  Book  of. 

Image-breakers.  See  Iconoclasts. 

Image  of  God.  The  notion  of  the  “image  of 
God  in  man”  is  one  of  the  fundamental  conceptions  of 
Christian  theology.  It  takes  its  root  in  the  Mosaic  ac- 
count of  ereation,  where  we  find  God  saying  (Gen.  i,  2G), 
“Let  us  make  man,  and  in  our  im- 

age,  after  our  likeness.”  This  first  expression  is  again 
used  in  the  next  verse,  where  the  act  of  creation  is  re- 
corded, and  subsequently  also,  ix,  G,  after  sin  had  en- 
tered the  world.  There  is  consequently  no  further  dif- 
ference between  EblS  and  fVl'S'n  than  that  the  one  is 
the  concrete,  the  other  the  abstract  expression  of  the 
same  idea.  This  is  also  seen  in  comparing  v,  3 and  ix. 
6.  The  two  synonymes  are  in  fact  used  for  the  sake  of 
emphasis,  q.  d.  in  exact  resemblance  of  us. 


“ No  one  doubts  that  the  phrase  ‘ image  of  God’  de- 
notes in  general  a likeness  of  God;  but  the  opinions  of 
theologians  have  always  been  different  respecting  the 
particular  points  of  resemblance  which  Moses  intended 
to  express  by  the  phrase.  Nor  is  this  strange,  since 
Moses  does  not  explain  what  he  means  by  it,  and  it  is 
used  in  very  different  significations  in  the  Bible,  a fact 
that  has  not  been  sufficiently  noticed.  The  common 
opinion  is,  that  this  phrase  denotes  certain  excellences 
which  man  originally  possessed,  but  which  he  lost,  in 
part  at  least,  by  the  fall.  The  principal  texts  cited  in 
behalf  of  this  opinion  are  Gen.  i,  2G;  compare  ii,  15  sq. ; 
and  from  the  N.  Test.,  Col.  iii,  19;  compare  Eph.  iv,  24, 
where  a renewal  after  the  image  of  God  is  mentioned, 
w'hieh  is  understood  to  mean  a restoration  of  this  image, 
implying  that  man  must  have  lost  it;  also  2 Cor.  xi,  3. 
Against  this  common  opinion  it  may  be  objected  that 
the  image  of  God  is  described  in  many  passages  as  ex- 
isting after  the  fall,  and  as  still  discoverable  in  men ; as 
Gen.  ix,  G;  James  iii,  9;  1 Cor.  xi,  G,  7,  and  especially 
Gen.  v,  1-3,  from  which  it  appears  that  .Seth,  being  made 
in  the  likeness  of  Adam,  must  have  had  the  same  im- 
age of  God,  whatever  it  was,  which  Adam  possessed” 
(Knapp,  Christian  Theology,  bk.  i,  art.  vi,  sec.  53,  p.  1G8). 

In  the  wrorks  of  the  fathers  we  find  great  diversity  of 
opinion  concerning  this  image  of  God  (Gregor.  Nyss.  De 
homin.  opif  c.  iv,  v,  or.  xvi).  Some  of  the  early  Latin 
fathers  also  maintained  a bodily  likeness  to  God  (Iremeus, 
Adr.II(er.v,G).  The  Audieans  (q.  v.)  admitted  only 
the  physical  resemblance  (Theodorct,  Hist.  Eccles.  iv,  9), 
wdiile  Augustine  and  the  Church  of  Alexandria  rejected 
it  altogether  (Clemens,  Strom. u,  19).  They  also  agreed 
in  making  the  divine  image,  in  a moral  point  of  view,  to 
consist  in  uprightness  before  God,  and  in  the  harmony 
between  the  higher  and  the  lower  faculties  of  the  sold ; 
as  also  physically  in  the  immortality  of  the  body,  and 
the  mastership  over  all  other  creatures.  Others  admit 
a confirmation  and  strengthening  of  the  image  of  God 
in  man  by  the  indwelling  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  they 
consider  not  only  as  a gift  of  free  graee,  but  also  as  nec- 
essary to  the  completeness  of  man  (Cyr.  Alex.  Thes. 
xxxiv,  dial.  vi).  These  different  parties  make  great 
use  of  the  distinction  between  the  twro  expressions  im- 
ago and  similitudo ; the  scholastics  maintaining  that  by 
the  imago  (which,  though  weakened  by  the  fall,  was 
still  extant)  is  to  be  understood  the  essence  of  the  in- 
nate, natural  attributes  of  the  spirit,  especially  reason 
and  liberty;  and  by  the  similitudo  (which  was  obliter- 
ated by  the  fall)  the  moral  nature  of  man,  which  was 
agreeable  to  God,  or,  in  other  words,  the  thorough  uni- 
son with  the  divine  will  originating  in  the  divine  grace 
(Hugo  Viet.  De  Sacrmn.  1.  i,  p.  6,  e.  ii ; Petr.  Lomb.  Sent. 
1.  ii,  dist.  1G,  D.).  The  creed  of  Trent  makes  no  posi- 
tive mention  concerning  the  image  of  God,  but  the  Cate- 
ehismus  Romanus  considers  it  as  consisting  in  the  pecul- 
iar inherent  dispositions  of  the  human  soul,  for  after  its 
definitions  concerning  Adam’s  body  it  says,  “Quod  au- 
tem  ad  animam  pertinet,  eum  (hominem)  ad  imaginem 
et  similitudinem  suam  formavit  liberumque  eiarbitrium 
tribuit,”  which,  however,  does  not  satisfactorily  explain 
in  what  relation  this  liberum  arbitrium  (free  will)  stands 
with  regard  to  the  imago  dei  (image  of  God)  in  the  soul. 
It  also  leaves  undecided  the  question  whether  the  con- 
sequent submission  of  the  desires  to  the  dictates  of  rea- 
son is  also  to  be  considered  as  forming  part  of  this  im- 
age of  God.  From  the  word  addidit  we  can  only  infer 
that  the  originalis  justitice  admirable  donum  is  something 
independent,  not  inherent  (Cat.  Rom.  i,  2, 19).  The  Ro- 
mish theologians  still  endeavor  to  maintain  the  distinc- 
tions made  by  the  scholastics  between  imago  and  simili- 
tudo. “The  ‘original  justice’  is  further  considered  as 
a supernatural  gift,  which  man  possesses  by  a special 
grace,  so  that  it  is  made  to  counterbalance  the  natural 
division  between  the  higher  and  the  lower  forces  (the 
spirit  and  the  flesh,  reason  and  sensuality),  thus  direct- 
ing the  forces  towards  God,  and  introducing  the  simili- 
tudo in  the  imago  (Bellannine,  De  Grat.  Prim.  Ilominis, 


IMAGE  OF  GOD 


500 


IMAGE  OF  GOD 


v,  5).  Thus  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  starts  in  its 
theory  from  the  present  state  of  man,  as  resulting  from 
the  fall,  in  regard  to  which  state  communion  with  God 
is  something  superadded.  Some  Romanist  theologians 
distinguish  between  original  justice  and  original  holiness 
(communion  with  God),  maintaining  the  former  to  he 
the  attribute  of  pure  nature  as  it  came  from  the  hand 
of  the  Creator,  and  holding  the  latter  to  be  exclusively 
the  gift  of  superadded  and  supernatural  grace.  The 
evangelical  Church,  on  the  contrary,  by  considering  the 
image  of  God  as  belonging  to  Adam’s  true  nature,  as  he 
came  from  the  hands  of  his  Creator,  obtains  a doctrine 
at  once  more  clear,  more  simple,  and  more  true  (Apol,  i, 
17 ; comp.  Form,  Concord,  sol.  decl.  i,  10).  It  considers 
habitual  communion  with  God  as  a state  natural  to  man, 
and  belonging  to  his  normal  organization  before  the  fall, 
not  as  a special  particular  gift.  It  maintains,  further, 
that  this  original  image  of  God  was  lost  by  the  fall  of 
man. 

‘•Rut  in  the  papal  anthropology,  man,  as  he  comes 
from  God,  is  imperfect.  He  is  not  created  sinful  in- 
deed, but  neither  is  he  created  holy.  To  use  the  papal 
phrase, he  is  created  inpuris  naturulibus ; without  posi- 
tive righteousness  and  without  positive  unrighteousness. 
The  body  is  full  of  natural  carnal  propensities,  and  tends 
downwards.  The  soul,  as  rational  and  immortal,  tends 
upwards.  But  there  is  no  harmony  between  the  two  by 
creation.  An  act  subsequent  to  that  of  creation,  and 
additional  to  it,  is  necessary  to  bring  this  harmony 
about;  and  this  is  that  act  by  which  the  gift  of  original 
righteousness  is  superadded  to  the  gifts  of  creation.  In 
and  by  this  act  the  higher  part  is  strengthened  to  ac- 
quire and  maintain  dominion  over  the  lower,  and  a pos- 
itive perfection  is  imparted  to  human  nature  that  was 
previously  lacking  in  it.  Original  righteousness  is  thus, 
in  reference  to  the  created  and  natural  characteristics 
of  man,  a supernatural  gift. 

“The  second  peculiarity  in  the  papal  anthropology 
consists  in  the  tenet  that  apostasy  involves  the  loss  of  a 
supernatural , but  not  of  a natural  gift.  By  the  act  of 
transgression,  human  nature  lapses  back  into  that  con- 
dition of  conflict  between  the  flesh  and  the  spirit  in 
which  it  was  created.  In  losing  its  original  righteous- 
ness, therefore,  it  loses  nothing  with  which  it  was  en- 
dowed by  the  creative  act,  but  only  that  superadded  gift 
which  was  bestowed  subsequently  to  this.  The  su- 
premacy of  the  higher  over  the  lower  part  is  lost  by  the 
Adamic  transgression,  and  the  two  parts  of  man,  the 
flesh  and  the  spirit,  fall  into  their  primitive  and  natural 
antagonism  again.  Original  righteousness  being  a su- 
pernatural gift,  original  sin  is  the  loss  of  it,  and,  in  reali- 
ty, the  restoration  of  man  to  the  state  in  which  he  was 
created”  (Shedd,  Hid.  of  Doct.  ii,  14G). 

The  “image,”  or  likeness  of  God, in  which  man  was 
made,  has,  by  some,  been  assigned  exclusively  to  the 
body ; by  others  simply  to  the  soul ; others,  again,  have 
found  its  essence  in  the  circumstance  of  his  having  “do- 
minion” over  the  other  creatures.  As  to  the  body,  it  is 
not  necessary  to  take  up  any  large  space  to  prove  that 
in  no  instance  can  that  literally  bear  the  image  of  God, 
that  is, be  “like”  God.  Descant  ever  so  much  or  ever 
so  poetically  upon  man’s  upright  and  noble  form,  this 
has  no  more  likeness  to  God  than  a prone  or  reptile  one : 
God  is  incorporeal,  anil  has  no  bodily  shape  to  be  the 
antitype  of  anything  material.  Not  more  tenable  is  the 
notion  that  the  image  of  God  in  man  consisted  in  the 
“dominion”  which  was  granted  to  him  over  this  lower 
world.  Limited  dominion  may,  it  is  true,  be  an  image 
of  large  and  absolute  dominion;  but  man  is  not  said  to 
have  been  made  in  the  image  of  God’s  dominion,  which 
is  accident  merely,  for,  before  any  creatures  existed,  God 
himself  could  have  no  dominion  but  in  the  image  and 
likeness  of  God  himself,  of  something  which  constitutes 
his  nature.  Still  further,  man,  according  to  the  history, 
was  evidently  made  in  the  image  of  God,  in  order  to  his 
having  dominion,  as  the  Hebrew  connective  particle 
(“  and”)  imports.  He  who  was  to  have  dominion  must 


necessarily  be  made  before  he  could  be  invested  with 
it,  and  therefore  dominion  was  consequent  to  his  exist- 
ing in  the  “image”  and  “likeness”  of  God,  and  could 
not  be  that  image  itself. 

The  attempts  which  have  been  made  to  fix  upon  some 
one  essential  quality  in  which  to  place  that  “ image”  of 
God  in  which  man  was  created,  are  not  only  uncalled  for 
by  any  scriptural  requirement,  but  are  even  contradicted 
by  various  parts  of  Scripture,  from  which  alone  we  must 
derive  our  information  on  this  subject.  It  is  in  vain  to 
say  that  this  “image”  must  be  something  essential  to 
human  nature,  something  only  which  cannot  be  lost. 
We  shall,  it  is  true,  find  that  revelation  places  it  in  what 
is  essential  to  human  nature;  but  that  it  should  com- 
prehend nothing  else,  or  one  quality  only,  has  no  proof 
or  reason;  and  we  are,  in  fact,  taught  that  it  comprises 
also  what  is  not  essential  to  human  nature,  and  what 
may  be  lost  and  be  regained.  As  to  both,  the  evidence 
of  Scripture  is  explicit. 

(1.)  When  God  is  called  “the  Father  of  spirits,”  a 
likeness  is  certainly  intimated  between  man  and  God  in 
the  spirituality  of  their  nature.  This  is  also  implied 
in  the  striking  argument  of  Paul  with  the  Athenians: 
“Forasmuch,  then,  as  we  are  the  offspring  of  God,  we 
ought  not  to  think  that  the  godhead  is  like  unto  gold, 
or  silver,  or  stone  graven  by  art,  and  man’s  device 
plainly  referring  to  the  idolatrous  statues  by  which  God 
was  represented  among  heathens.  If  likeness  to  God  in 
man  consisted  in  bodily  shape,  this  would  not  have  been 
an  argument  against  human  representations  of  the  De- 
ity; but  it  imports,  as  Ilowe  well  expresses  it,  that  “we 
are  to  understand  that  our  resemblance  to  him,  as  we 
are  his  offspring,  lies  in  some  higher,  more  noble,  and 
more  excellent  thing,  of  which  there  can  be  no  figure, 
as  who  can  tell  how  to  give  the  figure  or  image  of  a 
thought,  or  of  the  mind  or  thinking  power?”  In  spirit- 
uality, and  consequently  immateriality,  this  image  of 
God  in  man,  then,  in  the  first  particular,  consists. 

(2.)  The  sentiment  expressed  in  Wisdom  ii,  23,  is  ev- 
idence that,  in  the  opinion  of  the  ancient  Jews,  the  im- 
age of  God  in  man  comprised  immortality  also:  “For 
God  created  man  to  be  immortal,  and  made  him  to  be 
an  image  of  his  own  eternity;”  and  though  other  crea- 
tures, and  even  the  body  of  man,  were  made  capable  of 
immortality,  and  at  least  the  material  human  frame, 
whatever  we  may  think  of  the  case  of  animals,  would 
have  escaped  death,  had  not  sin  entered  the  world,  yet, 
without  running  into  the  absurdity  of  the  “ natural  im- 
mortality” of  the  human  soul,  that  essence  must  have 
been  constituted  immortal  in  a high  and  peculiar  sense, 
which  has  ever  retained  its  prerogative  of  eternal  dura- 
tion amidst  the  universal  death,  not  only  of  animals,  but 
of  the  bodies  of  all  human  beings.  See  Immortality. 

(3.)  To  these  correspondences  we  are  to  add  that  of 
intellectual  powers,  and  we  have  what  divines  have  call- 
ed, in  perfect  accordance  with  the  Scriptures,  the  natu- 
ral image  of  God  in  his  creature,  which  is  essential  and 
ineffaceable.  Ho  was  made  capable  of  knowledge , and 
he  was  endowed  with  liberty  of  will. 

(4.)  This  natural  image  of  God,  in  which  man  was 
created,  was  the  foundation  of  that  moral  image  by  which 
also  he  was  distinguished.  Unless  he  had  been  a spir- 
itual, knowing,  and  willing  being,  he  would  have  been 
wholly  incapable  of  moral  qualities.  That  he  had  such 
qualities  eminently,  and  that  in  them  consisted  the  im- 
age of  God,  as  well  as  in  the  natural  attributes  just  stated, 
we  have  also  the  express  testimony  of  Scripture.  “Lo 
this  only  have  I found,  that  God  made  man  upright,  but 
they  have  sought  out  many  inventions.”  There  is  also 
an  express  allusion  to  the  moral  image  of  God,  in  which 
man  was  first  created,  in  Col.  iii,  10,  “ And  have  put  on 
the  new  man,  which  is  renewed  in  knowledge  after  the 
image  of  him  that  created  him and  in  Epli.  iv,  24, 
“Put  on  the  new  man,  which  after  God  is  created  in 
righteousness  and  true  holiness.”  This  also  may  be 
finally  argued  from  the  satisfaction  w'ith  which  the  his- 
torian of  the  creation  represents  the  Creator  as  viewing 


IMAGE  OF  GOD 


501 


IMAGERY 


the  works  of  his  hands  “ as  very  good.”  This  is  pro- 
nounced with  reference  to  each  individually  as  well  as 
to  the  whole : “ And  God  saw  everything  that  he  had 
made,  and  behold,  it  was  very  good.”  But  as  to  man, 
this  goodness  must  necessarily  imply  moral  as  well  as 
physical  qualities.  Without  them  he  would  have  been 
imperfect  as  man;  and,  had  they  existed  in  him,  in  their 
first  exercises,  perverted  and  sinful,  he  must  have  been 
an  exception,  and  could  not  have  been  pronounced  “very 
good.” — Watson,  Institutes , ii,  9-13. 

From  this  point  of  view  we  may  arrive  at  a correct 
apprehension  of  the  idea  of  the  divine  image.  God,  as 
an  absolute  spirit,  whose  essential  element  of  life  is  love, 
cannot  but  manifest  himself  in  an  eternal  object  of  this 
love,  of  the  same  essence  with  himself.  This  is  the  Son, 
the  eternal,  absolute,  immanent  image  of  God.  But  as 
God,  by  virtue  of  his  unfathomable,  overflowing  love, 
calls  also  forth  (or  creates)  other  beings,  to  whom  he 
wills  to  impart  his  blissful  life  by  the  establishing  of  his 
kingdom,  he,  the  type  of  all  perfection,  cannot  create 
them  but  after  his  own  image,  as  he  sees  it  from  all  eter- 
nity in  the  Son.  This  created  image  of  God  is  man  in 
his  primitive  condition.  Man  was  the  real  object  of 
God’s  creative  activity,  as  is  seen  in  God’s  special  de- 
cision with  regard  to  his  creation  (Gen.  i,  26;  comp.Psa. 
viii),  and  mankind  are  called  to  be  the  real  population 
of  his  kingdom.  The  whole  universe  (and  even  in  some 
sense  the  angels, Hebei,  14)  was  only  created  for  man, 
which  is  the  reason  why  he  -was  not  created  till  all 
other  things  were  ready  for  him.  The  facidties  which 
other  creatures  present  only  in  a limited,  disconnected 
manner,  were  in  him  (as  the  (wcpoKoapog)  united  into  a 
harmonious  whole ; moreover,  in  him  alone  (as  the  yi- 
KpoStog),  of  all  creatures,  was  the  personal  spiritual  life 
of  God  mirrored ; and  by  direct  inspiration  of  the  divine 
breath  of  life,  the  spirit  was  infused,  by  which  he  be- 
came a spiritual,  self-conscious,  free,  and  individual  soul. 
Man  was  created  God’s  image  in  his  individualism.  As 
God  is  not  an  abstract,  but  a real  spirit,  full  of  the  living 
powders  which  created  the  world,  so  the  image  of  God  in 
man  embraced  his  whole  nature.  It  extended  also  to 
the  body  as  the  outward  image,  the  dwelling  and  organ 
of  the  soul.  Man  was  created  the  image  of  God  in  the 
totality  of  his  being.  But,  while  man  was  thus  made 
the  image  of  God  to  himself,  he  was  also  made  the  im- 
age of  God  to  the  world  before  which  he  stands  as  the 
representative  of  God,  a relation  by  which  the  mastery 
over  the  outer  world  ascribed  to  him  in  Scripture  (Gen. 
i,  28-30)  is  shown  to  have  an  inner  foundation.  Thus 
far  the  image  of  God  was  innate  in  man  and  inaliena- 
ble. This  innate  state,  however,  bespoke  a correspond- 
ing habitual  state.  Inasmuch  as  God  the  Spirit  is  love, 
man  was  destined  to  a life  of  love,  and  was  at  once 
brought  into  it  by  communion  with  God.  From  the 
heart,  however,  as  the  centre  of  individual  life,  the  pow- 
er of  love  manifests  itself  in  the  direction  of  knowledge 
as  truth  and  wisdom  (objective  and  subjective  direc- 
tions), and  in  the  direction  of  the  will,  as  freedom  and 
sanctity  (formal  and  material  directions),  yet  so  that 
these  spiritual  conditions  in  their  original  working  pro- 
duced a state  partly  of  untried  innocence  and  partly  of 
unfolding  development.  To  the  body,  the  image  of 
God  procured  immortality  (posse  non  mori ),  as  the  out- 
ward dissolution  of  the  forces  (death)  is  but  the  result 
of  an  inward  dissolution  of  the  principle  of  life.  With 
regard  to  the  world,  however,  man  obtained  by  it  a pow- 
er, in  consequence  of  which  the  world  becomes  subject  to 
him  by  love,  and  not  by  force ; and  by  his  knowledge  of 
its  nature  (Gen.  ii,  19,  20),  he  is  enabled  to  carry  out 
God’s  will  in  it. 

This  habitual  resemblance  to  God,  which,  with  the 
image  of  God  innate  in  man’s  nature,  formed  the  nat- 
ural, original  state  of  man,  was  lost  by  sin,  as  the  life 
of  love,  coming  from  God,  which  formed  its  basis,  was 
destroyed  by  selfishness  coming  from  the  heart  of  man. 
It  could  only  he  restored  by  the  absolute  image  of 
God  the  Son,  source  of  the  life  of  love  for  the  world, 


assuming  himself  the  form  of  man.  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God,  made  flesh,  is  the  real,  personal  restoration 
of  the  image  of  God  in  humanity.  Since  in  the  flesh  he 
overcame  sin  for  us  by  his  death,  and  raised  our  nature 
to  glory  in  his  resurrection,  man  can  again  become  par- 
taker of  the  righteousness  and  spiritual  glory  which  be- 
long to  him.  By  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  fills  our  hearts 
with  love  for  God,  the  image  of  God  is  restored  in  us  in 
truth  and  uprightness.  See  C.  Sartorius,  I).  Lehre  v.  d. 
heiligen  Liebe  (Stnttg.  1843),  i,  34  sq.);  J.  T.  Beck,  I). 
christl.  Lehrwissenschafl  nach  den  btbl.  Urhmdcn  (Stutt. 
1841),  i,  § 19 ; II.  Martensen,  D.  christl.  Dogmatik  (Kiel, 
1850),  p.  15G ; J.  Chr.  Iv.  Hofmann,  Der  Schriftbemeis 
(Norcllingen,  1851),  i,  248-254:  G.  Thomasius,  Cliristi 
Person  u.  Werk  (Erlangen,  1853),  i,  147-224;  Herzog, 
Pea l-Encyklop . iii,  G14 ; Knapp,  Theology , sect.  53  et  sq.; 
Winer,  Comparat.  Darstellung , p.  33;  Watson,  Institutes, 
vol.  ii,  ch.  i ; Critici  Sacri , uDe  Imagine  Dei,"  i.  40 ; Faw- 
cett, Sermons,  p.  234 ; Dwight,  Theology,  i,  345  ; South, 
Sermons,  i,  45;  Grinfield,  Inquiry  into  the  Image  of  God 
in  Man  (Lond.  1837,  8vo)  ; Harness,  Sermons  on  the  Im- 
age of  God  (Lond.  1841,  8vo) ; Bibliotheca  Sacra,  \ ii, 
409;  Jackson,  Thos.,  Original  State  of  Man,  in  Works* 
ix,  1 ; Van  Mildert,  Works,  v,  143;  Harris,  Man  Primeval 
(N.  Y.  1851, 12 mo). 

Image  of  Jealousy.  See  Jealousy,  Image  of. 

Imagery  (P“3’i,'3,  maskith',  an  image,  as  rendered 
Lev.  xxvi,  1 ; or  picture,  as  rendered  Numb,  xxxiii,  52), 
only  in  the  phrase  “ chambers  of  his  imagery ” (Ezek. 
viii,  12).  The  scenes  of  pictorial  representation  referred 
to  by  this  phrase  are  connected  with  an  instructive  pas- 
sage in  the  history  of  Ezekiel  and  the  Jewish  exiles, 
who  were  stationed  in  Assyria,  on  the  banks  of  the  Che- 
bar.  At  one  of  their  interesting  prayer-meetings  for 
the  restoration  of  Israel,  which  had  been  held  so  often 
and  so  long  without  any  prospect  of  brighter  days,  and 
when  the  faith  and  hopes  of  many  of  the  unfortunates 
were  waxing  dim  and  feeble,  Ezekiel,  in  presence  of  his 
friends,  consisting  of  the  exiled  elders  of  Judah,  wa3 
suddenly  rapt  in  mystic  vision,  and  graciously  shown, 
for  his  own  satisfaction,  as  well  as  that  of  his  pious  as- 
sociates, the  reasons  of  God’s  protracted  controversy 
with  Israel,  and  the  sad  necessity  there  was  for  still 
dealing  hardly  with  them.  Transported  by  the  Spirit 
(not  bodily,  indeed,  nor  by  external  force,  but  in  imag- 
ination) to  the  city  and  Temple  of  Jerusalem,  he  there 
saw,  as  plainly  as  if  it  had  been  with  the  eye  of  sense, 
atrocities  going  on  within  the  precincts  of  the  holy 
place — the  perpetration  of  which  in  the  very  capital  of 
Judrea,  the  place  which  God  had  chosen  to  put  his  name 
there,  afforded  proof  of  the  woful  extent  of  national 
apostasy  and  corruption,  and  was  sufficient  to  justify, 
both  to  the  mind  of  the  prophet  and  his  circle  of  pious 
associates,  the  severity  of  the  divine  judgments  on  Is- 
rael, and  the  loud  call  there  was  for  prolonging  and  in- 
creasing, instead  of  putting  a speedy  end  to,  the  dire 
calamities  they  had  so  long  been  suffering  (Ezek.  viii). 
See  Ezekiel. 

The  first  spectacle  that  caught  his  eye  as  he  peram- 
bulated, in  mystic  vision,  the  outer  court  of  the  Temple 
— that  court  where  the  people  usually  assembled  to 
worship — was  a colossal  statue,  probably  of  Baal,  around 
which  crowds  of  devotees  were  performing  their  frantic 
revelries,  and  whose  forbidden  ensigns  were  proudly  bla- 
zoning on  the  walls  and  portals  of  the  house  of  him  who 
had  proclaimed  himself  a God  jealous  of  his  honor  (ver. 
3 ; Lowth,  ad  loc.).  Scarcely  had  the  prophet  recover- 
ed from  his  astonishment  and  horror  at  the  open  and 
undisguised  idolatry  of  the  multitude  in  that  sacred  in- 
closure, when  his  celestial  guide  bade  him  turn  another 
way,  and  he  would  see  greater  abominations.  Leading 
him  to  that  side  of  the  court  along  which  were  ranged 
the  houses  of  the  priests,  his  conductor  pointed  to  a mud 
wall  (ver.  7),  which,  to  screen  themselves  from  observa- 
tion, the  apostate  servants  of  the  true  God  had  raised; 
and  in  that  wall  was  a small  chink,  by  widening  which 


IMAGERY 


502 


IMAGERY 


lie  discovered  a passage  into  a secret  chamber,  which  j 
was  completely  impervious  to  the  rajrs  of  the  sun,  but 
which  he  found,  on  entering  it,  lighted  up  by  a profu- 
sion of  brilliant  lamps.  The  sides  of  it  were  covered 
with  numerous  paintings  of  beasts  and  reptiles — the  fa- 
vorite deities  of  Egypt ; and  with  their  eyes  intently 
fixed  on  these  decorations  was  a conclave  of  seventy 
persons,  in  the  garb  of  priests — the  exact  number,  and, 
in  all  probability,  the  individual  members  of  the  Sanhe- 
drim. who  stood  in  the  attitude  of  adoration,  holding  in 
their  hands  each  a golden  censer,  containing  all  the 
costly  and  odoriferous  materials  which  the  pomp  and 
magnificence  of  the  Egyptian  ritual  required.  “ There 
was  every  form  of  creeping  things  and  abominable 
beasts,  and  all  the  idols  of  the  house  of  Israel  portrayed 
round  about.”  The  scene  described  was  wholly  formed 
on  the  model  of  Egyptian  worship ; and  every  one  who 
has  read  the  works  of  Wilkinson,  Belzoni,  Richardson, 
and  others,  will  perceive  the  close  resemblance  that  it 
bears  to  the  outer  walls,  the  sanctuaries,  and  the  liiero- 
glyphical  figures  that  distinguished  the  ancient  mythol- 
ogy of  Egypt  (see  Ivitto,  Piet.  Bible , note  ad  loc.).  What 
were  the  strange  and  unsightly  images  engraven  on  the 
walls  of  this  chamber  discovered  by  Ezekiel,  and  that 
formed  the  objects  of  the  profane  reverence  of  these 
apostate  councillors,  may  be  known  from  the  following 
metrical  description,  which  the  late  IMr.  Salt,  long  the 
British  consul  m Egypt,  has  drawn  of  the  gods  worship- 
ped by  the  ancient  idolatrous  inhabitants  of  that  coun- 
try (“Egypt,”  in  Hall’s  Life  of  Salt,  ii,  410).  Those 
who  have  prosecuted  their  researches  among  the  rub- 
bish of  the  temples,  he  says,  have  found  in  the  deeply- 
sequestered  chambers  they  were  able  to  reach — 

“ The  wildest  images,  unheard  of,  strange, 

That  ever  puzzled  antiquarians’  brains: 

Genii,  with  heads  of  birds,  hawks,  ibis,  drakes, 

Of  lions,  foxes,  cats,  fish,  frogs,  and  snakes, 

* Bulls,  rams,  and  monkeys,  hippopotami, 

With  knife  in  paw,  suspended  from  the  sky ; 

Gods  germinating  men,  and  men  turned  gods, 

• Heated  in  honor,  With  gilt  crooks  and  rods ; 

Vast  scarabjei,  globes  by  hands  upheld, 

From  chaos  springing,  ’mid  ail  endless  field  : 

Of  forms  grotesque,  the  sphiux,  the  crocodile, 

And  other  reptiles  from  the  slime  of  Nile.” 


In  order  to  show  the  reader  still  further  how  exactly 


this  inner  chamber  that  Ezekiel  saw  was  constructed 
after  the  Egyptian  fashion,  we  subjoin  an  extract  from 
the  work  of  another  traveller,  descriptive  of  the  great 
temple  of  Edfu,  one  of  the  admirable  relics  of  antiqui- 
ty, from  which  it  will  be  seen  that  the  degenerate  priests 
of  Jerusalem  had  borrowed  the  whole  style  of  the  edifice 
in  which  they  were  celebrating  their  hidden  rites — its 
form,  its  entrance,  as  well  as  its  pictorial  ornaments  on 
the  walls — from  their  idolatrous  neighbors  of  Egypt : 

“ Considerably  below  the  surface  of  the  adjoining  build- 
ing,” says  he,  “my  conductor  pointed  out  to  me  a chink 
in  an  old  wall , which  he  told  me  I should  creep  through 
on  my  hands  and  feet;  the  aperture  was  not  two  feet 
and  a half  high,  and  scarcely  three  feet  and  a half 
broad.  My  companion  had  the  courage  to  go  first, 
thrusting  in  a lamp  before  him  : I followed.  The  passage 
was  so  narrow  that  my  mouth  and  nose  were  almost 
buried  in  the  dust,  and  I was  nearly  suffocated.  After 
proceeding  about  ten  yards  in  utter  darkness,  the  heat 
became  excessive,  the  breathing  was  laborious,  the  per- 
spiration poured  down  my  face,  and  I would  have  given 
the  world  to  have  got  out;  but  my  companion,  whose 
person  1 could  not  distinguish,  though  his  voice  was 
audible,  called  out  to  me  to  crawl  a few  feet  farther, 
and  that  I should  find  plenty  of  room.  I joined  him  at 
length,  and  had  the  inexpressible  satisfaction  of  stand- 
ing once  more  upon  my  feet.  We  found  ourselves  in  a 
splendid  apartment  of  great  magnitude , adorned  with  an 
incredible  profusion  of  sacred  paintings  and  hieroglyph- 
ics''' (Madden’s  Travels  in  Turkey,  Egypt,  etc.;  see  also 
Maurice,  Indian  Antiq.  ii,  212).  In  the  dark  recesses  of 
such  a chamber  as  this,  which  they  entered  like  the 
traveller  through  a hole  in  the  outer  wall,  and  in  whieh 
was  painted  to  the  eye  the  grotesque  and  motley  group 
of  Egyptian  divinities,  were  the  chief  men  at  Jerusa- 
lem actually  employed  when  Ezekiel  saw  them.  With 
minds  highly  excited  by  the  dazzling  splendor,  and  the 
clouds  of  fragrant  smoke  that  filled  the  apartment,  the 
performers  of  those  clandestine  rites  seem  to  have  sur- 
passed even  the  enthusiastic  zeal  of  their  ancestors  in 
the  days  of  Moses,  when,  crowding  round  the  pedestal 
of  the  golden  calf,  they  rent  the  air  with  their  cries  of 
“ These  be  thy  gods,  6 Israel !”  Beneath  a calmer  ex- 
terior, the  actors  in  the  scene  pointed  out  to  Ezekiel 
concealed  a stronger  and  more  intense  passion  for  idola- 
try. Every  form  of  animal  life,  from  the  noblest  quad- 
ruped to  the  most  loathsome  reptile  that  spawned  in 
Egypt,  received  a share  of  their  insane  homage;  and 
the  most  extraordinary  feature  of  the  scene  was  that 
the  individual  who  appeared  to  be  the  director  of  these 
foul  mysteries,  the  master  of  ceremonies,  was  Jaazaniah, 
a descendant  of  that  zealous  scribe  who  had  gained  so 
much  renown  as  the  principal  adviser  of  the  good  king 
Josiah,  and  whose  family  had  for  generations  been  re- 
garded as  the  most  illustrious  for  piety  in  the  land.  The 
presence  of  a scion  of  this  venerated  house  in  such  a den 
of  impurity  struck  the  prophet  as  an  electric  shock,  and 
showed,  better  than  all  the  other  painful  spectacles  this 
chamber  exhibited,  to  what  a fearful  extent  idolatry 
had  inundated  the  land.  See  Idolatry. 

It  might  have  been  supposed  impossible  for  men  to 
have  sunk  to  a lower  depth  of  superstition  than  that  of 
imitating  the  Egyptians  in  worshipping  the  monsters 
of  the  Nile,  or  the  vegetable  produce  of  their  fields  and 
gardens,  had  not  the  prophet  been  directed  to  turn  yet 
again,  and  he  would  see  greater  abominations  that  they 
did.  “ Then  he  brought  me  to  the  gate  of  the  Lord’s 
house, which  was  towards  the  north;  and  behold,  there 
sat  women  weeping  for  Tammuz”  (ver.  14).  This,  the 
principal  deity  of  the  Phoenicians,  and  who  was  often 
called  also  by  that  people  Adoni,  that  is,  My  Lord,  be- 
came afterwards  famous  in  the  Grecian  mythology  un- 
der the  well-known  name  of  Adonis;  and  the  circum- 
stance of  his  being  selected  for  the  subject  of  their  most 
beautiful  fiction  by  so  many  of  the  classic  poets  is  a 
sufficient  proof  of  the  great  popular  interest  his  name 
and  ritual  excited  among  the  idolaters  of  the  ancient 


BIAGE-WORSHIP 


503 


BIAGE-WORSHIP 


world.  It  is  said  to  have  originated  in  a tragie  adven- 
ture that  befell  an  intrepid  and  beautiful  prince  of  Phoe- 
nicia, who  was  killed  while  hunting  a wild  boar,  by 
which  that  land  was  infested,  and  whose  untimely  death 
in  the  cause  of  his  country  was  bewailed  in  an  annual 
festival  held  to  commemorate  the  disastrous  event. 
During  the  seven  days  that  the  festival  lasted,  the 
Phoenicians  appeared  to  be  a nation  of  mourners;  and 
in  every  town  and  village  a fictitious  representation  of 
Tammuz  was  got  up  for  the  occasion,  and  the  whole 
population  assembled  to  pour  forth  their  unbounded  sor- 
row for  his  hapless  fate,  more  especially  at  Byblos,  in 
Syria,  where  a temple  was  erected  in  honor  of  this  na- 
tional deity.  A strange  imposture  was  practised  to  in- 
fluence the  public  lamentations.  There  was  in  this 
temple  a gigantic  statue  of  the  god,  the  eyes  of  which 
were  filled  with  lead,  which,  on  fire  being  applied  with- 
in, of  course  melted  and  fell  in  big  drops  to  the  ground, 
a signal  for  the  loud  wailings  of  the  by-standers,  whose 
eyes,  in  sympathetic  imitation,  were  dissolved  in  tears. 
Conspicuous  among  the  crowd  on  such  occasions,  a band 
of  mercenary  females  directed  the  orgies;  and,  in  con- 
formity with  an  ancient  custom  of  bewailing  the  dead 
on  anniversaries  at  the  doors  of  houses  (Potter’s  Grecian 
Antiq.  bk.  iv,  ch.  iii),  others  took  their  station  at  the 
gate,  with  their  faces  directed  northwards,  as  the  sun 
was  said  to  have  been  in  that  quarter  of  the  heavens  at 
the  time  when  Tammuz  died.  These  violent  efforts  in 
mourning  were  always  followed  by  scenes  of  the  most 
licentious  and  revolting  revelry,  which,  though  not  men-  ! 
tioned,  are  manifestly  implied  among  the  “greater 
abominations”  which  degraded  this  other  group  of  idol- 
aters. See  Tammuz. 

Besides  the  hieroglyphics  of  Egypt  and  the  orgies  of 
Tammuz,  there  was  another  form  of  superstition  still, 
which  in  Jerusalem,  then  almost  wholly  given  to  idola- 
try, had  its  distinguished  patrons.  “ Turn  thee  yet 
again,”  said  his  celestial  guide  to  the  prophet,  “and  thou 
shall  see  greater  abominations  than  these”  (ver.  10). 
So  he  brought  him  “ unto  the  inner  court  of  the  Lord’s 
house,  and  behold,  at  the  door  of  the  temple  of  the  Lord, 
between  the  porch  and  the  altar,  were  about  five-and- 
twenty  men,  with  their  backs  towards  the  temple  of  the 
Lord,  and  their  faces  towards  the  east:  and  they  Avor- 
shipped  the  sun  towards  the  east.”  Perhaps  of  all  the 
varieties  of  superstition  which  had  erept  in  among  the 
Hebrews  in  that  period  of  general  decline,  none  display- 
ed such  flagrant  dishonor  to  the  God  of  Israel  as  this 
(Clem.  Alexandrinus,  Strom,  vii,  520);  for,  as  the  most 
holy  place  Avas  situated  at  the  Avcst  end  of  the  sanctu- 
ary, it  was  impossible  for  these  twenty-five  men  to  pay 
their  homage  to  the  rising  sun  without  turning  their 
backs  on  the  consecrated  place  of  the  divine  presence; 
and  accordingly  this  fourth  circle  is  introduced  last,  as 
if  their  employment  formed  the  climax  of  abominations 
— the  worst  and  most  woful  sign  of  the  times.  Could 
stronger  proofs  be  wanted  that  the  Lord  had  not  for- 
saken Israel,  but  was  driven  from  them  ? This  was  the 
lesson  intended,  and  actually  accomplished  by  the  vi- 
sion ; for  Avhile  the  prophet  Avas  made  aware  by  this 
mystic  scene  of  the  actual  state  of  things  among  his  de- 
generate countrymen  at  home,  he  saw  himself — and  in- 
structed the  pious  circle  around  him  to  see — a proof  of 
the  long-suffering  and  the  just  seArerity  of  God  in  defer- 
ring to  answer  their  fervent  and  long-continued  prayers 
for  the  emancipation  of  their  country.  — Kitto.  See 
Sun. 

Image-worship,  the  adoration  of  artificial  repre- 
sentations of  real  or  imaginary  objects.  See  Idolatry. 

I.  Image-worship  among  the  Jews. — It  has  always 
been  a tendency  of  the  human  mind,  untaught  by  true 
revelation,  to  embody  the  invisible  deity  in  some  visible 
form,  and  especially  in  the  human  form.  This  led  to 
representations  of  God,  or  of  the  gods,  as  conceived  by 
the  mind,  in  painting  or  statuary,  under  all  kinds  of 
shapes,  such  as  men,  monsters,  animals,  etc.  In  the 
course  of  time  these  representations  came  to  be  consid- 


ered as  being  themselves  the  gods,  and  to  be  worshipped 
in  temples  and  on  altars.  The  Jews,  as  worshippers  of 
one  God,  Avere  by  the  laAv  of  Moses  forbidden  to  make 
any  image  of  Jehovah ; but  the  people,  corrupted  by  the 
example  of  the  Egyptians,  compelled  Aaron  to  erect  a 
golden  calf  in  the  Desert.  After  their  entrance  into  Ca- 
naan, as  the  A\rorship  of  Jehovah  was  not  yet  fully  organ- 
ized and  accessible  to  all,  they  made  use  in  their  house- 
hold deArotions  of  images  of  the  Invisible,  and  that  prac- 
tice became  quite  general ; but,  as  the  civil  and  religious 
organization  of  the  Jews  became  more  deA'eloped,  this 
practice  fell  gradually  into  disuse,  and  it  Avas  no  longer 
tolerated  under  David  ami  Solomon.  After  the  separa- 
tion betAveen  Judah  and  Israel,  Rehoboam  restored  the 
use  of  images  in  the  latter  kingdom  for  political  motives, 
erecting  golden  calves  in  Dan  and  Bethel.  In  the  king- 
dom of  Judah  the  worship  of  images  found,  liOAvever,  but 
feAV  partisans.  After  the  captivity  of  Babylon  Ave  find 
no  traces  of  it. 

IL  In  the  Christian  Church. — Images  were  unknoAA'n 
in  the  worship  of  the  primith'e  Christians;  and  this  fact 
Avas,  indeed,  made  the  ground  of  a charge  of  atheism  on 
the  part  of  the  heathen  against  the  Christians.  The 
primitive  Christians  abstained  from  the  Avorship  of  im- 
ages, not,  as  the  Romanists  pretend,  from  tenderness  to 
heathen  idolaters,  but  because  they  thought  it  unlaAvful 
in  itself  to  make  any  images  of  the  deity.  Tertidlian, 
Clemens  Alexandrinus,  and  Origen  A\rere  eAren  of  opinion 
I that,  by  the  second  commandment,  painting  and  engrav- 
ing were  unlaAvfnl  to  a Christian,  styling  them  evil  and 
AA'icked  arts  (Tertnllian,  de  Idol.  c.  iii ; Clem.  Alexand. 
Admon.  ad  Gent.  p.  41;  Origen,  contra  Celsum , vi,  182). 
Some  of  the  Gnostic  sects,  especially  the  Basilidians  (q. 
v.)  and  the  Carpoeratians  (q.v.),made  effigies  of  Christ, 
St.  Paul,  etc.  See  Gnostics.  This  example  of  professed 
philosophers  Avas  not  Avithout  its  influence  on  the  Church, 
and  it  Avas  seconded  by  a similar  usage  among  the  Man- 
iclueans  (q.  v.),  and  by  the  steady  pressure  of  heathen 
ideas  and  habits  upon  Christianity.  Emblems,  such  as 
the  dove,  the  fish,  the  anchor,  vine,  lamb,  etc.,  engraved 
on  seals,  formed  the  first  step ; then  came  paintings 
representing  Biblical  events,  saints  or  martyrs,  etc., 
which  Avere  placed  in  the  vestibule  of  the  church.  Yet 
this  practice  Avas  unfaA'orably  regarded  by  the  synods 
of  the  4th  century.  When,  however,  in  the  same  cen- 
tury, Christianity  Avas  proclaimed  the  religion  of  the 
state,  many  distinguished  persons  embraced  it,  and  its 
ceremonial  became  more  imposing;  and  in  the  5th  cen- 
tiiry  the  use  of  painting,  sculpture,  and  jeivelry  became 
general  for  the  decoration  of  the  churches.  This  re- 
sulted in  the  adoption  of  a regular  system  of  symbolic 
religious  images.  Paulinus  of  Nola  (q.  a\)  Avas  chiefly 
instrumental  in  introducing  these  practices  in  the  West, 
and,  as  the  images  were  at  first  chiefly  used  in  books 
intended  for  the  instruction  of  the  poor  and  the  laity 
[see  Biblia  Pauperu.ai],  avIio  AA'ere  too  ignorant  to  read, 
they  probably  did  more  good  than  harm  at  the  time; 
but  as  the  teachers  of  the  Church  became  gradually 
more  accommodating  in  their  relations  Avitli  the  hea- 
then, holding  out  greater  privileges  to  them,  and  alloAV- 
ing  them  to  retain  their  old  usages  Avhile  conforming  to 
the  outAvard  forms  of  Christianity,  the  Avorship  of  im- 
ages became  so  general  that  it  had  to  be  repeatedly 
cheeked  by  laws.  In  the  6th  century  it  had  groAvn  into 
a great  abuse,  especially  in  the  East,  Avhere  images  AA'ere 
made  the  object  of  especial  adoration  : they  AYcre  kissed, 
lamps  AA'ere  burned  before  them,  incense  AA'as  offered  to 
them,  and,  in  short,  they  Avere  treated  in  eA-erv  respect 
as  the  heathen  Avere  Avont  to  treat  the  images  of  their 
gods.  Some  of  the  heads  of  the  Church  encouraged 
these  practices  from  motives  of  policy,  Avhile  the  more 
enlightened  and  evangelical  portion  strongly  opposed 
them.  This  gave  rise  to  the  Iconoclasts  (q.  a\). 

Neander  describes  the  origin  of  the  use  of  images  in 
churches  as  follows:  “It  Avas  not  in  the  Church, but  in 
the  family,  that  religious  images  first  came  into  use 
among  the  Christians.  In  their  daily  intercourse  AA'ith 


BIAGE-WORSHIP 


504 


IMAGE-WORSHIP 


men,  the  Christians  saw  themselves  everywhere  sur- 
rounded by  the  objects  of  pagan  mythology,  or,  at  least, 
by  objects  offensive  to  their  moral  and  Christian  senti- 
ments. Representations  of  this  sort  covered  the  walls 
in  shops,  and  were  the  ornaments  of  drinking-vessels 
and  seal-rings,  on  which  the  pagans  frequently  had  en- 
graved the  images  of  their  gods,  so  that  they  might 
worship  them  when  they  pleased.  It  was  natural  that, 
in  place  of  these  objects,  so  offensive  to  their  religious 
and  moral  sentiments,  the  Christians  should  substitute 
others  more  agreeable  to  them.  Thus  they  preferred 
to  have  on  the  goblets  the  figure  of  a shepherd  carrying 
a lamb  on  his  shoulder,  which  was  the  symbol  of  our 
Saviour  rescuing  the  repentant  sinner,  according  to  the 
Gospel  parable.  Clement  of  Alexandria  says,  in  refer- 
ence to  the  seal-rings  of  the  Christians,  ‘ Let  our  signets 
be  a dove  (the  symbol  of  the  Holy  Spirit),  or  a fish,  or 
a ship  sailing  towards  heaven  (the  symbol  of  the  Chris- 
tian Church  and  of  the  individual  Christian  soul),  or  a 
lyre  (the  symbol  of  Christian  joy),  or  an  anchor  (the 
symbol  of  Christian  hope) ; and  he  who  is  a fisherman 
will  not  be  forgetful  of  the  apostle  Peter,  and  of  the 
children  taken  from  the  water;  for  no  images  of  gods 
should  be  engraved  on  the  rings  of  those  who  are  for- 
bidden all  intercourse  with  idols ; no  sword  or  bow  on 
the  rings  of  those  who  strive  after  peace;  no  goblets  on 
the  rings  of  those  who  are  the  friends  of  sobriety.’  Yet 
religious  emblems  passed  from  domestic  use  into  the 
churches  perhaps  as  early  as  the  end  of  the  3d  century. 
The  walls  of  them  were  painted  in  this  manner.  The 
Council  of  Elvira,  in  the  year  303,  opposed  this  innova- 
tion as  an  abuse,  and  forbade  ‘the  objects  of  worship 
and  adoration  to  be  painted  on  the  walls’”  (Neander, 
Church  History , i,  292). 

III.  Image  worship  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church. — 
The  Romanists  deny  the  charge  of  worshipping  images, 
or  idolatry,  which  has  often  been  and  is  still  made 
against  them  by  Protestants.  They  have  always  care- 
fully refrained  from  such  doctrinal  definitions  on  the 
subject  as  would  fully  convict  the  Church  of  idolatry. 
In  this  respect  the  course  of  the  Romish  Church  is  sim- 
ilar to  its  procedure  with  regard  to  the  doctrine  of  good 
works , which  it  presents  in  such  a manner  as  might  lead 
one  to  think  that  it  strictly  asserts  the  merits  of  Christ 
as  alone  rendering  our  works  useful,  whilst  in  practice 
the  believer  is  pointed  to  good  works  as  the  means  of 
salvation.  So,  with  regard  to  prayers  to  the  Virgin 
and  the  saints,  it  draws  a clear  distinction  between  the 
adoration  and  the  worship  of  saints,  but  practically  the 
prayers  of  the  Roman  Catholics  are  more  generally  ad- 
dressed to  the  saints  than  to  Christ.  The  same  takes 
place  with  regard  to  images.  The  Council  of  Trent 
(Sess.  xxv,  I)e  invocatione  /Sanctorum , etc.)  states  “that 
the  images  of  Christ  and  of  the  ever  virgin  Mother  of 
God,  and  in  like  manner  of  other  saints,  are  to  be  kept 
and  retained,  and  that  due  honor  and  veneration  is  to 
be  awarded  to  them.  Not  that  it  is  believed  that  any 
divinity  or  power  resides  in  them,  on  acconnt  of  which 
they  are  to  be  worshipped,  or  that  any  benefit  is  to  be 
sought  from  them,  or  any  confidence  placed  in  images,  as 
was  formerly  done  by  the  Gentiles,  who  fixed  their  hope 
in  idols.  Rut  the  honor  with  which  they  are  regarded 
is  referred  to  those  who  are  represented  by  them ; so 
that  we  adore  Christ  and  venerate  the  saints,  whose 
likenesses  these  images  bear,  when  we  kiss  them,  and 
uncover  our  heads  in  their  presence,  and  prostrate  our- 
selves.” The  council  quotes  on  this  subject  the  second 
Synod  of  Nicaaa.  To  this  “ honor  and  veneration”  be- 
long the  solemn  consecration  of  the  images,  offering  up 
incense  before  them,  the  special  prayers  accompanying 
these  ceremonies  as  contained  in  the  Pontificate  Iioma- 
num , other  prayers  for  private  use  to  be  repeated  before 
the  images,  and  the  indulgences  granted  to  those  who 
fulfil  that  duty,  etc.  All  this  shows  that  the  Romish 
Church,  while  rejecting  in  form  the  doctrine  of  image 
worship,  has  introduced  the  practice  among  the  people. 
The  masses  do  not  and  caimot  understand  the  subtle 


distinction  made  by  the  Church,  and  not  always  strict- 
ly observed  even  by  the  clergy.  The  Church  knows 
of  this  evil,  but  places  it  among  things  she  tolerates  for 
the  sake  of  charity,  though  she  does  not  approve  them. 
Yet  some  Roman  Catholic  theologians  appear  to  have 
come  very  close  indeed  to  the  same  conception  as  the 
masses  on  this  point.  Thomas  Aquinas  expressed  his 
views  of  images  in  a dilemma : “ A picture  considered 
in  itself  is  worthy  of  no  veneration,  but  if  we  consider  it 
as  an  image  of  Christ  it  may  be  allowable  to  make  an  in- 
ternal distinction  between  the  image  and  its  subject,  and 
adoratio  and  latria  are  as  well  due  to  it  as  to  Christ” 
(iii  Sent,  clist.  9,  qu.  1,  art.  2, 3;  Summa , qu.  23,  art.  4,  5). 
Bonaventura  drew  a correct  conclusion  from  the  princi- 
ple : “ Since  all  veneration  shown  to  the  image  of  Christ 
is  shown  to  Christ  himself,  then  the  image  of  Christ  is 
also  entitled  to  be  prayed  to”  ( Cidtus  latrice,  1.  iii,  dist. 
9,  art.  1,  qu.  2).  Bellarmine  says  that  “the  images  of 
Christ  and  the  saints  are  to  be  adored  not  only  in  a fig- 
urative maimer,  but  quite  positively,  so  that  the  pray- 
ers are  directly  addressed  to  them,  and  not  merely  as 
the  representatives  of  the  original  (Ita  ut  ipsi  [imag- 
ines] tenninent  venerationem,  ut  in  se  considerantur  et 
non  ut  vicem  gerunt  exemplaris).  The  image  itself  is 
in  some  degree  holy,  namely,  by  its  likeness  to  oik;  holy, 
its  consecration  and  its  use  in  worship;  from  whence  it 
follows  that  the  images  themselves  are  not  entitled  to 
the  same  honor  as  God,  but  to  less”  (De  Imaginibus,].  ii, 
c.  x),  i.  e.  the  difference  between  the  divine  worship 
and  image  worship  is  one  of  degree  or  quantity,  not  of 
nature  or  quality.  Such  theories,  although  far  over- 
stepping the  limits  of  the  decree  of  Trent,  are  yet  freely 
permitted  by  the  Romish  Church;  it  neither  openly  ad- 
mits nor  officially  condemns  them,  and  thus  leaves  an 
opening  for  all  possible  degrees  of  idolatry,  over  which 
many  an  honest  Roman  Catholic  priest  mourns  in  se- 
cret. 

History  shows  that  the  first  tendency  to  image-wor- 
ship was  the  rcsnlt  of  a slow  but  continued  degeneracy. 
The  same  arguments  now  used  by  the  Romish  Church 
to  defend  image-worship  were  rejected  by  the  Christians 
of  the  first  three  centuries  when  used  in  the  defence  of 
idol-worship.  The  heathen  said,  We  do  not  worship 
the  images  themselves,  but  those  whom  they  represent. 
To  this  Lactantius  answers  (Inst.  Dir.  lib.  ii,  c.  2),  “ You 
worship  them ; for,  if  you  believe  them  to  be  hi  heaven, 
why  do  you  not  raise  your  eyes  up  to  heaven  ? why  do 
you  look  at  the  wood  and  stone,  and  not  up,  where  you 
believe  the  originals  to  be?”  The  ancient  Church  re- 
jected the  use  of  all  images  ( Synod  of  Elvira , 305,  c.  36: 
“ Placuit,  picturas  in  ecclesiis  esse  non  debere,  ne  quod 
colitur  aut  adoratur,  in  parietibus  depingatur”).  The 
early  Christians  evidently  feared  that  pictures  in  their 
churches  woidd  eventually  become  objects  of  prayer. 
The  admission  of  images  into  the  church  in  the  4th 
and  5tli  centuries  was  justified  on  the  theory  that  the 
ignorant  people  could  learn  the  facts  of  Christianity 
from  them  better  than  from  sermons  or  books.  But  the 
people  soon  lost  sight  of  this  use  of  the  images,  and 
made  them  the  objects  of  adoration.  This  took  place 
earlier  in  the  East  than  in  the  "West ; but  the  abuse  gain- 
ed ground  in  the  latter  region  in  a short  time.  Serenus, 
bishop  of  Marseilles,  broke  several  images,  and  had  them 
taken  out  of  the  church,  because  he  found  that  the  peo- 
ple prayed  to  them.  Gregory  the  Great  proclaims  that 
he  does  not  allow  any  praying  to  ( adorari ) the  images, 
and  adds  to  this  that  Paulinus  of  Nola  and  Nilus  had 
already  said  that  paintings  were  placed  in  the  church 
only  in  order  that  the  uneducated  might  read  on  the 
walls  what  they  were  unable  to  read  in  books  (lib.  ix, 
ep.  105).  He  also  laid  down,  as  a general  principle,  in 
his  letter  to  Secundums,  that  it  was  expedient  to  use 
the  visible  to  represent  the  invisible  (Kb.  ix,  ep.  52). 
But  he  shows  evidently  that  he  is  not  speaking  of  a 
mere  objective  representation  of  Deity,  for  he  says  that 
he  prostrates  himself  ( prosternimus ) before  the  images, 
making  the  well-known  Roman  Catholic  condition  that 


IMAGINATION  505  IMAGINATION 


he  thus  really  prays  to  Christ.  The  second  Council  of 
Nioea  (A.D.  787)  decreed  the  validity  of  image-worship, 
and  anathematized  all  who  opposed  it.  The  Frankish 
Church,  on  the  other  hand,  though  it  did  not  forbid  the 
use  of  images  in  the  church,  formally  declared  against 
their  being  worshipped.  Charlemagne  opposed  to  the 
decrees  of  the  synod  the  so-called  Caroline  books  (q.  v.), 
in  which  it  is  expressly  said  that  images  arc  allowed 
in  the  church,  but  not  to  be  prayed  to,  only  to  excite 
the  attention  on  the  subjects  they  commemorate,  and  to 
adorn  the  walls.  “ For,”  as  it  says  further  on,  “ if  some 
enlightened  persons,  who  do  not  pray  to  the  image  it- 
self, but  to  him  it  represents,  should  pray  before  the  im- 
age, it  would  mislead  the  ignorant,  who  pray  only  to 
what  they  see  before  their  eyes”  (lib.  iii,  16).  The  Syn- 
od of  Frankfort  (summoned  by  Charlemagne,  A.D.  794, 
and  consisting  of  300  bishops)  and  the  Synod  of  Paris 
(825)  solemnly  condemned  image- worship.  The  latter 
council  even  ventured  to  reject  the  pope’s  contrary  opin- 
ion in  very  strong  terms.  During  the  whole  of  the  9th 
century  the  matter  was  thus  at  rest,  Claudius  of  Turin, 
Agobard,  and  other  of  the  most  important  theologians  of 
that  period  approving  the  action  of  the  synods.  Jonas 
of  Orleans,  an  opponent  of  Claudius,  expressly  says,  in 
his  De  cultti  imaginum,  that  images  are  placed  in  the 
church  “solummodo  ad  instruendas  ncscientium  men- 
tes.”  The  Council  of  Trent,  as  cited  above,  recommends 
images  as  means  of  instructing  the  people,  and  to  incite 
the  faithful  to  imitate  the  saints;  but  in  later  times 
the  Romish  Church  has  added  to  this  what  the  Frank- 
ish Church  of  the  8th  and  9th  centuries  had  so  wisely 
rejected. — Herzog,  Real-Encyhlop.  ii,  233-235.  The  fluc- 
tuations of  opinion  and  variations  of  discipline  in  the 
Romish  Church  on  the  subject  of  image-worship  arc 
well  exhibited  by  Faber  ( Difficulties  of  Romanism,  p.  10 
et  sq.).  See  White,  Bampton  Lectures,  p.  8 ; Coleman, 
Ancient  Christianity , chap,  xiii,  § 14;  Spanhcim,  Hist. 
Imaginum,  Opera,  tom.  ii ; Bingham,  Orig.  Eccles.,  book 
viii,  ch.  viii ; Tenison,  On  Idolatry,  p.  269  sq. ; Winer, 
Comp.  Darstellung,  iii,  1 . See  also  articles  Iconoclasts  ; 
Iconography;  Greek  Church;  Roman  Church. 

Imagination  (Lat.  imaginatio).  “The  meaning  of 
this  word  enters  into  many  relationships,  and  is  thereby 
rendered  difficult  to  define.  The  principal  meaning  is 
doubtless  what  connects  it  with  poetry  and  fine  art,  from 
which  the  other  significations  branch  off1.  The  simplest 
mode  of  explaining  this  complicated  relationship  will  be 
to  state  in  separation  the  different  constituents  of  the 
power  in  question.  We  shall  then  sec  why  and  ivhcre 
it  touches  upon  other  faculties,  which  still  require  to  be 
distinguished  from  it. 

“I.  Imagination  has  for  its  objects  the  concrete,  the 
real,  or  the  individual,  as  opposed  to  abstractions  and 
generalities,  which  are  the  matter  of  science.  The  full 
coloring  of  reality  is  implied  in  our  imagination  of  any 
scene  of  nature.  In  this  respect,  there  is  something 
common  to  imagination  and  memory.  If  we  endeavor 
to  imagine  a volcano,  according  as  we  succeed,  we  have 
before  the  mind  everything  that  a spectator  would  ob- 
serve on  the  spot;  Thus,  sensation,  memory,  and  imag- 
ination alike  deal  with  the  fulness  of  the  actual  world, 
as  opposed  to  the  abstractions  of  science  and  the  reason- 
ing faculties. 

“ The  faculty  called  conception,  in  one  of  its  meanings, 
has  also  to  do  with  this  concrete  fulness,  although,  in 
what  Sir  William  Hamilton  deems  the  original  and 
proper  meaning  of  that  word,  this  power  is  excluded. 
In  popular  language,  and  in  the  philosophy  of  Dugald 
Stewart,  conception  is  applied  to  the  case  of  our  realiz- 
ing any  description  of  actual  life,  as  given  in  history  or 
in  poetry.  When  we  completely  enter  into  a scene  por- 
trayed by  a writer  or  speaker,  and  approach  the  situa- 
tion of  the  actual  observer,  we  are  often  said  to  conceive 
what  is  meant,  and  also  to  imagine  it ; the  best  word  for 
this  signification  probably  is  ‘ realize.’ 

“ 2.  It  is  further  essential  to  imagination  in  its  strictest 
sense  that  there  should  be  some  original  construction,  or 


that  what  is  imagined  should  not  be  a mere  picture  of 
what  we  have  seen.  Creativencss,  origination,  inven- 
tion, are  names  also  designating  the  same  power,  and 
excluding  mere  memory,  or  the  literal  reproduction  of 
past  experience.  Every  artist  is  said  to  have  imagina- 
tion according  as  he  can  rise  to  new  combinations  or  ef- 
fects different  from  what  he  has  found  in  his  actual  ob- 
servation of  nature.  A literal,  matter-of-fact  historian 
would  be  said  to  be  wanting  in  the  faculty.  The  exact 
copying  of  nature  may  be  very  meritorious  in  an  aTtist, 
and  very  agreeable  as  an  effect,  but  we  should  not  des- 
ignate it  by  the  term  imagination.  There  are,  however, 
in  the  sciences,  and  in  all  the  common  arts,  strokes  of  in- 
vention and  new  constructions,  to  which  it  might  seem  at 
first  sight  unfair  to  refuse  the  term  in  question,  if  origi- 
nality be  a leading  feature  in  its  definition.  But  still  we 
do  not  usually  apply  the  term  imagination  to  this  case, 
and  for  a reason  that  will  appear  when  we  mention  the 
next  peculiarity  attaching  to  the  faculty. 

“3.  Imagination  has  for  its  riding  element  some  emo- 
tion of  the  mind,  to  gratify  which  all  its  constructions 
are  guided.  Here  lies  the  great  contrast  between  it  and 
the  creativencss  of  science  and  mechanical  invention. 
These  last  are  instrumental  to  remote  objects  of  con- 
venience or  pleasure.  A creation  of  the  imagination 
comes  home  at  once  to  the  mind,  and  has  no  ulterior 
view. 

“ Whenever  we  are  under  the  master}’-  of  some  strong 
emotion,  the  current  of  our  thoughts  is  affected  and  col- 
ored by  that  emotion ; what  chimes  in  with  it  is  retained, 
and  other  things  kept  out  of  sight.  We  also  form  new 
constructions  that  suit  the  state  of  the  moment.  Thus, 
in  fear,  we  are  overwhelmed  by  objects  of  alarm,  and  even 
conjure  up  spectres  that  have  no  existence.  But  the 
highest  example  of  all  is  presented  to  us  by  the  con- 
structions of  fine  art,  which  arc  determined  by  those  emo- 
tions called  (esthetic,  the  sense  of  beauty,  the  pleasures  of 
taste;  they  are  sometimes  expressly  styled  ‘pleasures 
of  the  imagination.’  The  artist  lias  in  himself  those 
various  sensibilities  to  an  unusual  degree,  and  he  carves 
and  shapes  his  creations  with  a view  to  gratifying 
them  to  the  utmost.  Thus  it  happens  that  fine  art  and 
imagination  are  related  together,  while  science  and  use- 
ful art  arc  connected  with  our  reasoning  faculties,  which 
may  also  be  faculties  of  invention.  It  is  a deviation  from 
the  correct  use  of  language,  and  a confounding  of  things 
essentially  distinct,  to  say  that  a man  of  science  stands 
in  need  of  imagination  as  well  as  powers  of  reason ; he 
needs  the  power  of  original  construction , but  his  inven- 
tions are' not  framed  to  satisfy  present  emotions,  but  to 
be  instrumental  in  remote  ends,  which  in  their  remote- 
ness may  excite  nothing  that  is  usually  understood  as 
emotion.  Every  artist  exercises  the  faculty  in  ques- 
tion if  he  produces  anything  original  in  his  art. 

“The  name  ‘Fancy’  has  substantially  the  meanings 
now  described,  and  was  originally  identical  with  imag- 
ination. It  is  a corruption  of  fantasy,  from  the  Greek 
tyavracria.  It  has  now  a shade  of  meaning  somewhat 
different,  being  applied  to  those  creations  that  are  most 
widely  removed  from  the  world  of  reality.  In  the  ex- 
ercise of  our  imagination  we  may  keep  close  to  nature, 
and  only  indulge  the  liberty  of  recombining  what  we 
find,  so  as  to  surpass  the  original  in  some  points,  with- 
out forcing  together  what  could  not  co-exist  in  reality. 
This  is  the  sober  style  of  art.  But  when,  in  order  to 
gratify  the  unbounded  longings  of  the  mind,  we  con- 
struct a fair\r -land  with  characteristics  altogether  be- 
yond what  human  life  can  furnish,  we  are  said  to  enter 
the  regions  of  fancy  and  the  fantastical. 

“The  ‘ideal’  and  ‘ideality’  are  also  among  the  syn- 
onymes  of  imagination,  and  their  usual  acceptation  il- 
lustrates still  further  the  property  now  discussed.  The 
‘ ideal’  is  something  that  fascinates  the  mind,  or  gratifies 
some  of  our  strong  emotions  and  cravings,  when  reality 
is  insufficient  for  that  end.  Desiring  something  to  ad- 
mire and  love  beyond  what  the  world  can  supply,  we 
strike  out  a combination  free  from  the  defects  of  com- 


IMANI 


506  IMMACULATE  CONCEPTION- 


mon  humanity,  and  adorned  with  more  than  excellence. 
This  is  our  ‘ideal,’  what  satisfies  our  emotions,  and  the 
fact  of  its  so  doing  is  the  determining  influence  in  the 
construction  of  it”  (Chambers).  See  Idealism. 

Imaili  is  the  name  of  the  third  sacred  book  of  laws 
of  the  Turks,  containing  the  directions  for  a reasonable 
conduct  of  life.— Pierer,  Unit'.  Lex.  viii,  830. 

Imaum  or  Iman  is  the  title  of  a person  belonging 
to  a class  of  the  Mohammedan  Ulema  (q.  v.)  or  priestly 
body,  but  not  set  apart  from  the  rest  of  the  world 
like-  the  clergy  or  priesthood,  with  whom  he  is  usually 
classed.  He  is  not  ordained,  nor  is  any  sacred  charac- 
ter conferred  upon  him.  The  name  is  Arabic,  and  sig- 
nifies “ he  who  is  at  the  head.”  In  this  sense  it  is  ap- 
plied even  to  the  sultan,  “Imaum  ul-Muslemin,”  or 
simply  “Imaum,”  and  is  given  to  the  most  honored 
teachers  of  Mohammedanism,  who  in  the  first  centuries 
of  the  Hegira  developed  and  settled  the  opinion  and 
law  of  Islam,  as  “ those  whose  teachings  are  followed.” 
The  imaum,  whose  instruction  generally  extends  only 
to  the  understanding  of  the  Koran,  calls  the  Moslem  to 
prayer  from  the  top  of  minarets,  performs  the  rites  of 
circumcision,  marriage,  burial,  etc.,  and  presides  over 
the  assembly  of  the  faithful  at  prayers,  except  at  the 
solemn  noon  prayers  on  Friday,  which  are  under  the  su- 
perintendence of  the  khatib,  a higher  minister  (“who 
is  also  called,  from  that  circumstance,  the  Imaum  nl-Ju- 
ma,  or  Friday  Iman”).  He  is  elected  to  his  office  by 
the  people,  and  confirmed  by  the  authorities,  to  whom 
he  remains  subject  in  all  civil  ana  criminal  matters ; but 
he  certainly  enjoys  many  privileges ; among  others,  he 
cannot  be  made  to  suffer  death  punishment  as  long  as 
he  retains  his  office  as  imaum.  In  spiritual  affairs  he 
becomes  independent.  He  can  resign  his  office  and  re- 
turn to  the  laity  whenever  he  chooses.  The  imaums  are 
greatly  revered  by  the  people.  For  striking  an  imaum 
a Turkish  layman  is  punished  with  the  loss  of  one  of 
his  hands,  but  a Christian  with  death.  In  dress  he  is 
distinguished  from  the  laitv  by  a turban  somewhat 
broader,  made  of  different  material,  by  a long  beard,  and 
by  long  sleeves  in  his  coat  (tunic).  !See  Taylor,  History 
of  Mohammedanism,  ch.  viii ; I’ierer,  Univ.  Lex.  viii,  830. 
(J.  H.W.) 

Imitation  of  Christ.  See  Example. 

ImTa  (Ileb.  Yimla',  iA’C"',  replenisher ; Sept.  Tfju- 
Ad),  the  father  of  Mieaiali,  which  latter  was  the  prophet 
who  ironically  foretold  the  defeat  of  the  allied  kings  of 
Judah  and  Israel  against  Ramoth-Gilead  (2  Cliron.xviii, 
8,  9).  In  the  parallel  passage  (I  Kings  xxii,  8,  9)  his 
name  is  written  Imlaii  (lleb.  Yimlah',  !"&*«%  id. ; Sept. 
’layflXa).  B.C.  ante  896. 

Im'lah  (1  Kings  xxii,  8,  9).  See  Lmla. 

Immaculate  Conception  of  the  Virgin  Mary, 
a doctrine  early  broached  in  the  Roman  and  Greek 
churches,  that  the  Virgin  Mary  was  conceived  without 
the  stain  of  original  sin.  Bernard,  in  the  12th  century, 
rejected  this  doctrine  in  opposition  to  the  canons  of 
Lyons,  but  it  was  not  much  agitated  until  (1301)  the 
Franciscan  Huns  Scotus  took  strong  grounds  in  favor  of 
the  doctrine,  and  henceforward  it  became  a subject  of  ve- 
hement controversy  between  the  Seotists  and  Thomists. 
The  Dominicans  espoused  the  cause  of  the  Thomists, 
who  impugned  the  dogma ; the  Franciscans  that  of  the 
Seotists,  who  defended  it.  Sixtus  IV,  himself  a Fran- 
ciscan, in  1483  declared  himself  in  favor  of  toleration  on 
the  point.  The  Council  of  Trent  (Sess.  v)  declared  that 
the  doctrine  of  the  conception  of  all  men  in  sin  was  not 
intended  to  include  the  Virgin.  The  controversy  was 
revived  in  the  University  of  Paris  towards  the  close  of 
the  lGth  century.  During  the  pontificates  of  Paul  V 
and  Gregory  XV,  such  was  the  dissension  it  occasioned 
in  Spain,  that  both  Philip  and  his  successor  sent  special 
embassies  to  Rome  in  the  vain  hope  that  this  contest 
might  be  terminated  by  a bull.  The  dispute  ran  so 
high  in  that  kingdom  that,  in  the  military  orders  of  St. 


James,  of  the  Sword,  of  Calatrava,  and  of  Alcantara,  the 
knights,  on  their  admission,  vowed  to  maintain  the  doc- 
trine. In  1708,  Clement  XI  appointed  a festival  to  be 
celebrated  throughout  the  Church  in  honor  of  the  im- 
maculate conception.  It  is  firmly  believed  in  the  Greek 
Church,  in  which  the  feast  is  celebrated  voider  the  name 
of  the  Conception  of  St.  Anne;  but  it  was  not  till  1854 
that  it  was  made  a dogma  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church. 

“ Pope  Pius  IX,  during  his  whole  pontificate,  has  show- 
ed himself  the  most  devoted  of  the  worshippers  of  Mary. 
In  his  exile  at  Gaeta  in  1849  he  addressed  his  famous 
‘ Encyclical  on  the  Mystery  of  the  Immaculate  Concep- 
tion’ (Feb.  2)  to  the  patriarchs,  primates,  archbishops, 
and  bishops  of  the  whole  Catholic  Church,  affirming 
the  existence  of  ‘ an  ardent  desire  throughout  the  Cath- 
olic world  that  the  apostolic  see  should  at  length,  by 
some  solemn  judgment,  define  that  the  most  holy  Moth- 
er of  God,  the  most  loving  mother  of  us  all,  the  immac- 
ulate Virgin  Alary,  had  been  conceived  without  original 
sin.’  ‘These  desires,’  he  adds,  ‘have  been  most  accept- 
able and  delightful  to  us,  who,  from  our  earliest  years, 
have  had  nothing  dearer,  nothing  more  at  heart,  than 
to  revere  the  most  blessed  Virgin  Alary  with  an  especial 
piety  and  homage,  and  the  most  intimate  affections  of 
our  heart,  and  to  do  everything  which  might  seem  like- 
ly to  procure  her  greater  glory  and  praise,  and  to  am- 
plify her  worship.’  A commission  was  appointed  for 
the  examination  of  the  question,  under  the  presidency 
of  cardinal  Fornarini;  cardinal  Lambruscliini  produced 
his  tract,  and  Perrone  the  work  De  Immacidato  B.  U. 
Maria  c onceptu  ,■  Passaglio  also  wrote  a large  essay,  and 
the  results  of  these  investigations  were  issued  by  the 
Propaganda  press  (2  vols.  4to).  The  special  commis- 
sion reported,  in  a full  conclave  of  the  Sacred  College, 
Alay  27, 1854.  Answers  had  come  from  G02  bishops,  all 
favorable  to  the  dogma,  though  52  doubted  the  oppor- 
tuneness, and  four  the  possibility  of  a decision.  The 
‘ special  congregation’  demanded  the  definition  with 
alacrity  and  zeal.  A consistory  of  consultation  was 
proclaimed,  and  held  at  Rome  Nov.  4, 1854;  it  was  not 
a general  council,  nor  was  any  authority  attributed  to 
it.  Fifty-four  cardinals,  4G  archbishops,  and  about  400 
bishops  are  reported  to  have  been  present  at  these  de- 
liberations; 57G  votes  are  said  to  have  been  cast  for  the 
dogma,  and  only  four  against  it;  among  the  latter  were 
the  archbishop  de  Sibour,  of  Paris,  on  the  ground  that 
the  pope  had  no  power  Jo  decide  such  a question;  and 
also  the  bishop  Olivier,  of  Evreux,  lately  deceased,  who 
sent  in  his  vote  by  proxj\  On  the  8th  of  December,  in 
St.  Peter’s,  in  the  midst  of  the  celebration  of  the  ‘ Con- 
ception,’ in  the  presence  of  more  than  200  ecclesiastical 
dignitaries,  and  in  answer  to  a petition  presented  by  the 
Sacred  College  of  the  Cardinals,  the  supreme  pontiff, 
with  a ‘tremulous’  voice,  read  in  Latin  the  following 
decree : ‘ We  declare,  pronounce,  and  define  that  the 
doctrine  which  holds  that  the  blessed  Virgin  Alary,  at 
the  first  instant  of  her  conception,  by  a singular  privi- 
lege and  grace  of  the  omnipotent  God,  in  virtue  of  the 
merits  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Saviour  of  mankind,  was 
preserved  immaculate  from  all  stain  of  original  sin,  has 
been  revealed  by  God , and  therefore  should  firmly  and 
constantly  be  believed  by  the  faithful.’  The  cannon  of 
the  castle  of  St.  Angelo,  the  joyful  chime  of  all  the  bells 
of  Rome,  the  enthusiastic  plaudits  of  the  assembled 
thousands,  the  magnificent  illumination  of  St.  Peter’s 
church,  and  the  splendor  of  the  most,  gorgeous  festive 
rites,  gave  response  to  the  infallible  decree.  It  was  a 
grand  pageant,  befitting  an  idolatrous  enthusiasm.  The 
pope  himself,  with  ‘ trembling  jov,’  crowned  the  image 
of  the  Virgin ; medals  of  Australian  gold  were  struck, 
and  distributed  in  her  honor.  ‘Rome,’  say  the  behold- 
ers, ‘was  intoxicated  with  joy.’  An  infallible  voice  had 
spoken ; a new  article  of  faith  was  annomiced  by  ‘ di- 
vine’ authority;  the  people  rejoiced  in  hope  that  Alary 
would  be  yet  more  ‘ propitious,’  that  her  ‘ prevalent  in- 
tercession would  give  peace  and  plenty,  would  stay  the 
power  of  infidelity,  put  an  end  to  insurrection,  and  crown. 


IMMACULATE  CONCEPTION-  507  IMMACULATE  CONCEPTION 


Rome  with  higher  honor  and  success.’  The  controver- 
sy of  seven  hundred  years  is  brought  to  a final  decision ; 
Rome  is  committed  irrevocably  to  the  worship  of  the 
‘ Virgin  mother  of  God,  conceived  without  original  sin.’ 
4 Roma  locuta  est,’  and  doubt  is  now  heresy.  The  work 
begun  by  the  third  general  council  at  Ephesus  in  431, 
proclaiming  Mary  4 the  mother  of  God,’  is  declared  to  be 
consummated  by  the  papal  decree  of  Dec.  8, 1854,  as- 
serting the  privilege  of  her  immaculate  conception  on 
the  authority  of  Peter’s  chair.”  For  an  account  of  the 
history  of  the  dogma,  and  a full  discussion  of  its  theo- 
logical merits,  see  Smith,  in  Methodist  Quarterly  Review, 
April,  1855.  See  also  The  Official  Documents  connected 
with  the  Definition  of  the  Dogma  of  the  Immaculate  Con- 
ception (Lat.  and  Eng.),  published  with  the  approbation 
of  the  Abp.  of  Baltimore  (Balt.  185G,  8vo).  See  Con- 
CEi^riox. 

Theology  of  the  Doctrine. — The  theology  of  the  doc- 
trine of  the  immaculate  conception  of  Mary  has  been 
the  subject  of  many  distinguished  writers  in  the  Ro- 
man, Greek,  and  Protestant  churches.  The  greatest 
difficulties  which  the  advocates  of  the  doctrine  have  to 
contend  against  are  really  the  following  three:  l.lt 
lacks  the  evident  support  of  the  Holy  Scriptures.  2.  It 
lacks  the  authority  of  the  early  Church,  and  may  well 
be  termed  “a  comparative  novelty  in  theology.”  3.  It 
is  directly  and  most  distinctly  opposed  to  the  doctrine 
of  original  sin. 

As  to  the  first,  the  scriptural  arguments  advanced  by 
the  advocates,  they  are  certainly  very  slight  and  unten- 
able, and  have  been  virtually  yielded  by  the  best  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  authorities,  such  a3  Perrone  {De  Ini- 
mac.  B.V.  Maria}  conceptu,  etc.,  p.  35  sq.,  57  sq.,  1 12  sq.). 
There  are  only  two  passages  which  the  best  and  most 
learned  of  Rome  have  adduced.  The  first  of  these  is 
Gen.  iii,  15,  the  TrpmTtvayytXiov  of  divine  revelation: 
44  And  1 will  put  enmity  between  thee  and  the  woman, 
and  between  thy  seed  and  her  seed?  it  (she)  shall  bruise 
thy  head,  and  thou  slialt  bruise  his  heel.”  “The  ar- 
gumentation here  is  curious.  The  received  Vulgate 
reading,  not  found,  however,  in  all  the  copies,  is  4 ipsa,’ 
she;  while  the  Hebrew  reads  Nin,  he,  or  it;  Jerome, 
too,  reads  4 ipse;’  Sixtus  V’s  edition  of  the  Septuagint 
reads  avrog.”  The  best  Roman  critics  (see  De  Rossi’s 
criticism  in  Pusey’s  Eirenicon,  ii,  385)  discard  the  read- 
ing as  it  stands  in  the  received  Vulgate.  Perrone, 
however,  contends  that  it  is  indifferent  which  read- 
ing is  adopted,  because,  at  any  rate,  Mary  could  not 
have  had  the  power  to  conquer  the  serpent  except 
through  Christ.  But  how  does  this  prove  the  immac- 
ulate conception — give  to  the  dogma  “a  firm  founda- 
tion?” Simply  for  the  reason  that  in  these  words  a 
“special  privilege  is  conferred  upon  Mary,”  and  that 
special  privilege  could  “only  have  been  the  immunity 
from  original  sin.”  But  the  privilege  conferred  is  sole- 
ly, even  on  the  author’s  own  ground,  that  she  should  be 
in  some  way  a means  of  subduing  Satan,  and  that  she 
was  this  as  the  mother  of  our  Lord.  To  assert  that,  in 
order  to  be  the  mother  of  Christ,  she  must  be  free  from 
original  sin,  is  purely  to  beg  the  whole  question.  The 
“Letters  Apostolic”  of  Pius  IX  upon  the  dogma  sanc- 
tion infallibly  the  application  of  the  clause  44  bruise  thy 
head”  to  Mary,  who,  the  pope  says,  44  has  crushed  the 
serpent’s  head  with  her  immaculate  foot."  Another  pas- 
sage adduced,  upon  which  Perrone  lays  less  stress  than 
on  the  one  already  cited,  is  the  angelic  salutation  Luke 
i,  28,  comp.  30,  coupled  with  the  words  spoken  by  Eliz- 
abeth, Luke  i,  42 : 44  Hail,  thou  that  art  highly  favored, 
the  Lord  is  with  thee:  blessed  art  thou  among  women 
. . . Fear  not,  Mary,  for  thou  hast  found  favor  with  God 
. . . Blessed  art  tliou  among  women,  and  blessed  is  the 
fruit  of  thy  womb.”  They  argue  that  the  greeting 

XaTof,  Kt\apiru)}dvT],  translated  in  the  Vulgate  by 

* gratia  plena,  means  fulness  of  grace  in  a sense 

that  necessitates  exemption,  from  the  very  beginning 
of  existence,  from  any  possible  taint  of  sin,  and  that  the 
same  meaning  must  necessarily  be  allowed  to  the  ex- 


pression 44  blessed  art  thou  among  women”  (comp.  Lie- 
bermann,  Instit.  Theol.  ii,  833  ; Perrone,  Prcelect.  Tkeol. 
ii,  G51).  Roman  Catholic  writers  assign,  however,  no 
reason  why  these  words  should  be  so  interpreted.  44  They 
are,  in  fact,  uncritically  and  illogically  forced  into  the 
service  of  the  doctrine,  and,  as  in  the  case  of  the  ‘Prot- 
evangelium’  of  the  O.  T.,  they  offer  no  real  support  of 
it  whatever.”  As  for  other  passages  of  a mystical  type 
which  are  used  as  a secondary  evidence,  they  would  be 
of  value  only  as  confirming  and  illustrating  any  in 
which  the  fact  was  directly  and  undoubtedly  stated. 
Certain  it  is  that  in  the  gospels  Mary  is  represented  as 
she  is,  and  not  as  an  immaculate  being;  that  neither  in 
the  Acts  nor  in  the  Epistles,  notwithstanding  Paul’s 
minute  description  of  Christ’s  scheme  of  salvation,  is 
; she  mentioned  at  all.  The  great  trouble,  in  short,  with 
Roman  Catholic  theologians,  is  that  they  transfer  the 
sayings  of  the  prophets  and  of  the  apostles  concerning 
Jesus  Christ,  and  all  the  passages  which  point  to  one 
mediator  between  God  and  man,  virtually  to  Mary,  the 
mother  of  Christ,  instead  of  assigning  this  position  to 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God. 

The  comparative  novelty  of  the  doctrine  in  theology 
is  proved  by  history.  There  is  not  one  great  teacher 
of  the  Christian  Church  who,  before  the  breaking  out  of 
, the  controversy  between  Lyons  and  Bernard  in  1140 — 
that  is,  for  the  first  eleven  centuries  of  our  ara — was 
favorable  to  the  doctrine  as  now  propagated  by  the 
Church  of  Rome.  “The  question  does  not  exist  for 
them ; they  know  nothing  of  this  specific  doctrine-;  they 
speak  in  respect  to  original  sin  and  the  need  of  redemp- 
tion in  such  a way  as  to  prove  that  the  immaculate 
conception  of  Mary  could  not  have  been  any  part  of 
their  creed.  Their  praises  of  the  Virgin  are  often  im- 
moderate; they  defend  her  perpetual  virginity  (Epi- 
phanius,  Ilaer.  78 ; Jerome,  ad/:.  Helvidianum,  etc.) ; 
many  of  them  believe  that  she  was  ‘sanctified’  in  the 
womb;  most  of  them  declare  that  she  never  was  guilty 
of  actual  sin ; but  they  do  not  know  anything  about  her 
exemption  from  all  infection  of  original  sin.  Augustine 
defends  her  only  against  the  charge  of  actual  sin  {De 
Xatura  et  Gracia,  c.  36) : ‘Excepta  sancta  Virgine  Ma- 
ria, de  qua  propter  honorem  Domini  nullam  prorsus,  cum 
de  peccatis  agitur,  haberi  volo  qiuestionem.’  This  pas- 
sage is  quoted  in  favor  of  the  dogma,  but  it  plainly  re- 
fers only  to  actual  transgression,  and  it  is  contained  in 
a reply  to  the  position  of  Pelagius,  that  there  were 
saints  who  had  not  sinned.  In  his  treatise  on  the  Re- 
mission of  Sins  (bk.  ii,  ch.xxiv,  § 38),  this  greatest  of  the 
Latin  fathers  says  explicitly  that  Christ  alone  was  with- 
out sin:  ‘Solus  ergo  ille  etiam,  homo  factus,  manens 
Deus,  peccatum  nullum  habuit  unquam ;’  nor  does  he 
intimate  any  exception.  In  his  work  De  Genesi,  ad  lit. 
c.  18,  n.  32,  he  speaks  of  4 the  body  of  Christ  as  taken 
from  the  flesh  of  a woman,  who  was  conceived  of  a 
mother  with  sinful  flesh ;’  and  he  indicates  a clear  dis- 
tinction between  Mary’s  nature  and  Christ’s  nature  in 
this  respect.  Augustine’s  followers  make  similar  state- 
ments. Eusebius  Emissemis  (supposed  by  some  to  be 
Hilary)  on  the  ‘Nativity’  says, ‘From  the  bond  of  the 
old  sin  is  not  even  the  mother  of  the  Redeemer  free.’ 
Fulgentius  writes,  ‘The  flesh  of  Mary, which  was  con- 
ceived in  unrighteousness  in  a human  way,  was  truly 
sinful  flesh ;’  and  he  adds  that  4 this  flesh  is  in  itself 
truly  sinful.’  referring  to  Paul’s  use  of  the  term  4 flesh’ 
to  designate  our  common  hereditary  sinfulness.  Oth- 
ers of  the  fathers  make  use  of  similar  statements,  irrec- 
oncilable with  a belief  in  the  immaculate  conception. 
(See  Perrone,  p.  40  sq.  Bandellus,  De  Singulari  Puri - 
fate  et  Prcerogativa  Concept ionis  Christi  [1470],  a work 
by  a Dominican,  contains  some  four  hunched  testimo- 
nies against  the  dogma  from  the  fathers : see  also  the 
work  of  the  cardinal  Turrecamata,  De  Yei'itate  Concep- 
tionis  [1550]).  It  is,  indeed,  true  that  the  fathers  do 
not  often  speak  directly  upon  the  point  in  question  ; but 
this  is  for  the  simple  reason,  conclusive  against  the 
claim  of  universality,  that  they  did  not  know  anything 


IMMACULATE  CONCEPTION  508  IMMACULATE  CONCEPTION 


about  it.  The  doctrine  is  declared,  A.D.  1140,  by  Ber- 
nard, to  be  a ‘novelty;’  and  he  says  that  the  festival 
is  ‘ the  mother  of  presumption,  the  sister  of  superstition, 
and  the  daughter  of  levity’  (Ep.  174,  ad  Canon  Lugd. 
§ 5 sq. ; comp.  Serm.  78  in  Cant.).  Others  of  the  earlier 
fathers  speak  of  Mary  in  such  a way  as  is  absolutely 
irreconcilable  with  the  idea  that  they  believed  in  her 
immaculate  conception.  Hilary  (Psa.  cxix,  lib.  8,  § 12 ; 
comp.  Tracts  for  the  Times,  No.  79,  p.  3G)  declares  that  she 
is  exposed  to  the  fire  of  judgment.  Irenaeus,  Tertullian, 
Origen,  Basil  the  Great,  and  Chrysostom,  do  not  hesi- 
tate* to  speak  of  faults  of  Mary,  of  her  being  rebuked  by 
Christ.  * If  Mary.’  says  Origen,  ‘ did  not  feel  offence 
at  our  Lord’s  sufferings,  Jesus  did  not  die  for  her  sins;’ 
Chrysostom  ascribes  to  her  ‘excessive  ambition  at  the 
marriage  festival  at  Cana;’  Basil  thinks  that  she,  too, 
‘wavered  at  the  time  of  the  crucifixion;’  all  of  which 
statements  are  utterly  inconsistent,  not  only  with  the 
dogma  of  the  immaculate  conception,  but  also  with  a 
belief  in  her  perfect  innocency  (comp.  Gieseler,  Ch.Hist. 
§ 99,  note  30,  with  the  references  to  Irenaeus,  iii,  18; 
Tertullian,  De  Came  Christi,  7 ; Origen,  in  Lucam  Horn. 
17 ; Basil,  Ep.  260  (317) ; Chrysostom,  Horn.  45  in  Matt., 
Horn.  21  in  John).  Tertullian,  De  Came  Christi,  § xvi, 
declares  that  * Christ,  by  putting  on  the  flesh,  made  it 
his,  and  made  it  sinless ;’  Irenseus,  that  ‘Christ  made 
human  nature  pure  by  taking  it;’  Athanasius,  on  the 
‘Incarnation,’  teaches  the  same  doctrine,  that  ‘Christ 
sanctified  his  own  body,’  and  that  ‘ he  hath  purified 
the  body,  which  was  in  itself  corruptible.’  Of  course, 
the  body  he  assumed  was  not  in  and  of  itself  sinless. 
Gregory  of  Nazianzum,  and  John  of  Damascus  (730), 
teach  expressly  that  the  Virgin  was  sanctified  by  the 
Holy  Ghost.  If  Christ,  by  assuming  human  nature  in 
Mary,  ‘ made  it  sinless,’  it  was  not  so  before  his  incarna- 
tion” (Smith,  ul  sup.).  The  view  which  some  hold  on  the 
title  of  3-eoroKoc,  given  to  Mary  at  the  Council  of  Eph- 
esus, we  think  bears  so  wholly  on  the  incarnation  of 
Christ  that  we  refrain  from  introducing  it  here.  See 
also  Nestorianism.  Of  the  numberless  passages  from 
the  fathers  which  set  forth  the  doctrine  of  the  univer- 
sality of  sin,  and  the  universal  need  of  redemption 
through  Christ,  without  making  the  Virgin  Mary  the 
exception,  we  will  speak  under  the  third  head.  An  ad- 
ditional source  of  evidence  is  afforded  us  by  the  early 
liturgies  of  offices  of  the  Church.  “ They  exalt  Mary 
and  her  conception,  but  they  do  never  call  it  an  ‘ im- 
maculate’ conception.  It  is  only  in  the  latest  years 
that  the  term  ‘immaculate’  has  been  introduced  into 
the  Western  offices  of  the  highest  authority.  The  of- 
fices themselves,  in  honor  of  the  Virgin,  did  not  become 
current  in  the  West  till  the  11th  century.  In  the  office 
for  her  birth,  in  the  ancient  churches,  it  is  read  that 
‘ she  was  sanctified  from  the  stain  of  sin ;’  in  one  of  the 
German  liturgies,  ‘ that  she  was  born  with  a propensity 
to  sin ;’  in  the  Roman  Church  itself,  the  office  spoke  of 
the  ‘ sanctification  of  the  Virgin.’  This  silence,  and  the 
late  alteration  of  these  offices,  are  conclusive  as  to  the 
non-existence  of  the  dogma.  In  the  year  791  (al.  796) 
a council  was  held  at  Friuli  (Concilium  Forqjuliense), 
called  by  Paulinus  (Paulus),  patriarch  of  Aquilcia,  dur- 
ing the  pontificate  of  Adrian  I,  to  consider  the  Trinity 
and  the  Incarnation,  in  respect  to  the  procession  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  ‘ Adoptianism,’  that  is,  the  opinion 
maintained  by  archbishop  Elipandus  of  Toledo,  and  oth- 
ers, that  Christ  in  his  human  nature  was  the  Son  of 
God  only  by  ‘ adoption.’  A long  and  explicit  Confes- 
sion of  Faith  was  published  by  this  council,  in  the 
course  of  which  it  is  said,  ‘ Solus  enim  sine  peccato  natus 
est  homo,  quoniam  solus  est  incamatus  de  Spiritu  Sancto 
et  immaculata  Virgine  novns  homo.  Consul istantialis 
Deo  Patri  in  sua,  id  est,  divina;  consubstantialis  etiam 
matri,  sine  sorde peccati,  in  nostra,  id  est,  liumana  natura’ 
(Harduin,  Acta  Concil.  1714,  iv,  856,  C.).  If  the  belief 
in  the  immaculate  conception  of  the  Virgin  had  been 
any  part  of  the  orthodoxy  of  the  times,  it  would  have 
been  impossible  for  a council  to  have  spoken  in  this 


way  of  Christ,  as  1 alone  born  without  sin and  the  ‘im- 
maculateness’ ascribed  to  the  Virgin  cannot  possibly,  in 
the  connection,  be  interpreted  of  her  conception,  or  even 
of  her  birth ; for,  if  it  could,  then  Christ  could  not  be 
said  to  be  the  ‘only’  one  of  men  boin  without  sin” 
(professor  Smith,  ut  sup.). 

No  better  does  the  case  fare  in  the  medieval  Church. 
“ The  amount  of  the  argument  and  the  result  of  the  tes- 
timony here  are,  that  the  doctrine  was  first  invented  in 
the  12th  century,  that  it  was  opposed  by  the  greatest 
and  best  of  the  scholastics,  and  that  it  made  its  way,  in 
spite  of  this  opposition,  through  the  force  of  popular  su- 
perstition, and  from  the  necessary  working  out  of  the 
inherent  tendencies  of  a system  of  creature-worship. 
Some  of  the  mediaeval  testimony  we  have  already  ad- 
duced ; we  add  only  the  most  important  citations.  An- 
selm (1070),  though  cited  for  the  immaculate  concep- 
tion, teaches  in  his  Cur  Deus  Homo  (ii,  16)  that  Mary 
was  conceived  in  sin:  ‘Virgo  tamen  ipsa,  unde  assump- 
tus  est,  est  in  iniquitatibus  concepta,  et  inpeccatis  conce- 
jrit  earn  mater  ejus,  et  cum  oriyinali  peccato  nata  est, 
quoniam  et  ipsa  hi  Adam  peccavit,  in  quo  omnes  pecca- 
verunt.’  ” (See  also  the  close  of  that  chapter  and  the 
next,  ii,  17.)  We  thus  notice  that,  up  to  the  time  of 
Bernard,  that  is,  for  the  first  eleven  centuries  of  our  era, 
no  writer  of  the  Church  used  such  strong  language  about 
the  holiness  of  the  Virgin  Mary  as  he  did  in  his  letter  to 
the  canons  of  Lyons  (1140)  already  referred  to.  He 
writes:  “The  mother  of  God  was,  without  doubt,  sanc- 
tified before  she  was  bom ; nor  is  the  holy  Church  in  er- 
ror in  accounting  the  day  of  her  nativity  holy.  I think 
that  even  a more  abundant  blessing  of  sanctification  de- 
scended on  her,  which  not  only  sanctified  her  birth,  but 
also  preserved  her  life  from  all  sin,  as  happened  to  none 
other  of  the  children  of  men.  It  was  befitting,  indeed, 
that  the  queen  of  virgins  should  pass  her  life  in  the  priv- 
ilege of  a singular  sanctity,  and  free  from  all  sin,  who,  in. 
bearing  the  Destroyer  of  all  sin  and  death,  obtained  for 
all  the  gift  of  fife.”  There  is  certainly,  even  here,  no  ad- 
vocacy of  the  immaculate  conception  of  Mary.  Exactly 
similar  views  were  held  by  Peter  Lombard,  whose  Four 
Books  of  Sentences  were  “ the  theological  text-book  of 
the  Middle  Ages,”  and  “ upon  which  all  the  great  scho- 
lastics made  their  comments  and  built  their  systems. 
He  says  ( Liber  Sentent.  iii,  distinct,  iii)  of  the  flesh  of 
Mary,  which  our  Lord  assumed,  that  it  was  1 previously 
obnoxious  to  sin,  like  the  other  flesh  of  the  Virgin,  hut 
by  the  operation  of  the  Spirit  it  was  cleansed.’  . . . ‘The 
Holy  Spirit,  coming  into  Mary,  purified  her  from  sin, 
and  from  all  desire  of  sin.’  ” Very  explicit  is  also  the 
testimony  of  Alexander  of  Hales,  the  irrefragable  doctor 
and  master  of  St.  Bonaventura,  the  commentator  on 
Lombard  : “ It  was  necessary  that  the  blessed  Virgin, 
in  her  generation,  should  contract  sin  from  her  parents; 
she  was  sanctified  in  the  womb.”  Bonaventura,  the 
seraphic  doctor,  the  glory  of  the  Franciscans,  who  died 
in  1274,  and  was  canonized  in  1482,  is  exhaustless  in  the 
praise  of  Mary  in  his  Speculum  and  Corona.  He  sanc- 
tifies her  veneration  in  the  most  rapturous  terms.  Yet 
on  this  question  he  is  also  decided,  explicitly  declaring 
that  “the  sanctification  of  the  Virgin  was  after  she  had 
contracted  original  sin  she  was  “sanctified  in  the 
womb”  (lib.  iii,  dist.  iii,  p.  1,  qu.  2, 3).  Albertus  Magnus, 
who  taught  in  Cologne  1260  to  1280,  made  the  same 
avowals.  Bonaventura  was  the  pupil  of  Alexander  of 
Hales,  Albertus  Magnus  of  Bonaventura,  and  next  suc- 
ceeds the  greatest  of  all  the  scholastic  theologians, 
Thomas  Aquinas,  “the  angelic  doctor,”  who  died  in 
1274,  was  canonized  in  1323,  and  in  1567  was  declared 
by  Pins  V to  be  “ teacher  of  the  Church.”  In  his  Sum - 
ma  Theologice,  p.  iii,  qu.  27,  art.  i,  it  stands,  “Mary  was 
sanctified  in  the  womb.”  Art.  2.  “ Not  before  the  infusion 
of  the  soul;  for  if  she  had  been  she  would  not  have  incur- 
red the  stain  of  original  sin,  and  would  not  have  needed 
the  redemption  of  Christ.”  Art.  3.  The  complete  deliv- 
erance from  original  sin  was  only  given  her  when  she 
conceived  Christ  (“  Ex  prole  redundaverit  in  matrem, 


IMMACULATE  CONCEPTION  509  IMMACULATE  CONCEPTION 


totalitcr  fomite  subtracto”).  Abont  the  festival  of  the 
Conception,  he  says  that  the  Koman  Church  does  not 
observe  it  herself,  yet  it  tolerates  the  custom  of  other 
churches : “ Unde  talis  celebritas  non  est  totaliter  repro- 
banda.”  Such  is  the  testimony  of  the  most  eminent 
mediaeval  divines,  to  which  we  need  not  add  names  of 
less  weight.  It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that,  in  the 
face  of  the  difficulties  to  be  encountered  by  the  modern 
defenders  of  the  immaculate  conception,  cardinal  Per- 
rone, the  general  rector  of  the  Koman  College,”  and 
“ the  prince  of  contemporary  theologians,”  is  led  to  ar- 
gue that  if  these  scholastic  divines  had  reasoned  correct- 
ly from  what  they  conceded  about  the  birth  of  the  Vir- 
gin, they  would  have  made  her  conception  immaculate ; 
also,  that  what  they  teach  can  all  be  best  explained  in 
harmony  with  the  doctrine;  or,  if  not  so,  that  they 
taught  what  they  did  as  private  teachers;  as  also  that 
they  were  ignorant  of  antiquity;  and  again,  that  their 
views  on  original  sin  were  such  as  allowed  them  to 
speak  as  they  did;  in  tine,  that  they  did  not  have  any 
guidance  from  an  infallible  decision  in  what  they  utter- 
ed ; and  that  while  they  were  wrangling  in  the  schools, 
the  dogma  was  making  its  way  among  the  people.  All 
this  goes  to  show  that  the  mediaeval  testimony  is  against 
it;  that,  as  far  as  the  Middle  Ages  are  concerned,  only 
isolated  opinions  are  for  the  doctrine,  and  the  weight  of 
authority  is  against  it.  The  only  distinct  argumenta- 
tive attempt  which  Perrone  makes  to  parry  the  force  of 
their  authority  and  arguments  is  the  assertion  that  these 
doctors  of  the  schools,  when  they  speak  of  the  concep- 
tion of  Mary,  have  reference  to  what  he  calls  the  first,  or 
active  conception,  and  not  to  the  passive,  or  the  infusion 
of  the  soul  into  the  seed.  But  this  explanation  is  irrel- 
evant, for  two  reasons ; one  is,  that  many  of  these  doc- 
tors do  not  make  this  distinction,  and,  of  course,  they  in- 
clude both  parts  of  the  conception  in  their  statement. 
They  make  the  distinction  between  “ conception”  and 
“ sanctification,”  and  say  that  all  that  precedes  sanctifi- 
cation belongs  to  the  “ conception,”  and  is  infected  with 
original  sin;  this,  of  course,  includes  the  “passive”  con- 
ception. Another  reason  that  invalidates  this  mode  of 
explanation  is,  that  some  of  these  doctors  do  make  the 
very  distinction  in  question,  and  }ret  maintain  that  the 
whole  conception,  both  active  and  passive,  was  in  origi- 
nal sin.  Thus  Alexander  of  Hales  says  that  “ the  Vir- 
gin after  her  nativity,  and  after  the  infusion  of  the  soul 
into  the  body , was  sanctified  Bonaventura  asserts  that 
the  infusion  of  grace  may  have  been  soon  after  the  infu- 
sion of  the  soul,  and  Aquinas  declares  expressly  that  the 
cleansing  can  only  be  from  original  sin ; that  the  fault  of 
original  sin  can  only  be  in  a rational  creature,  and,  there- 
fore, that  before  the  infusion  of  the  rational  soul  the  Vir- 
gin was  not  sanctified.  In  fact,  this  mode  of  meeting 
the  difficulty  can  only  be  carried  through  by  supposing 
that  the  mediaeval  divines  believed  that  original  sin 
could  exist  in  the  mere  fleshly  material  derived  from  pa- 
rents, an  opinion  widely  abhorrent  to  their  well-known 
views.  We  may  therefore  well  say  that  the  doctrine 
of  the  immaculate  conception  of  Mary,  the  mother  of 
Christ,  is  a “novelty  in  theology,”  for  the  historical  rec- 
ords of  antiquity  are  silent ; in  the  [Middle  Ages  the 
great  authorities  are  divided;  and  in  modern  times,  as 
our  historical  sketch  has  shown,  there  have  been  per- 
petual contests  and  divisions.  Twenty  years  ago  hard- 
ly a single  name  of  eminence  among  the  Koman  Catho- 
lics of  Germany  would  have  pronounced  in  its  favor. 
Spain,  it  is  true,  continued  her  devotions,  but  France 
was  indifferent,  until  the  Ultramontane  party  began  to 
gain  power,  and  to  look  about  for  the  means  of  arousing 
popular  feeling  in  behalf  of  the  papacy. 

There  remains  for  us  now  only  to  consider  the  doc- 
trine as  opposed  to  the  doctrine  of  original  sin.  The 
very  necessity  for  a miraculous  conception  in  the  case 
of  him  who  was  to  be  without  sin  [see  Incarnation] 
is  in  itself  a proof  that  every  person  conceived  in  a nat- 
ural manner  must  be  conceived  in  sin  [see  Nature,  Hu- 
man], and  the  Bible  is  too  express  and  unmistakable 


on  this  point,  that  all  are  conceived  in  sin  [see  Origi- 
nal Sin],  In  the  position  which  the  Koman  Catholic 
Church  thus  assumes,  we  encounter  again  the  vital  de- 
fects of  her  theology  on  original  sin,  that  semi-Pelagian- 
ism  against  which  all  the  Protestant  Confessions  have 
protested  as  unscriptural.  “ The  Koman  Catholic  doc- 
trine puts  the  essence  of  original  sin  solely  in  defect ; 
makes  it  negative;  asserting  that  it  is  only  the  want 
of  that  righteousness  in  which  Adam  was  created ; this 
is,  in  scholastic  usage,  the  ‘formal’  part,  or  the  very  es- 
sence of  original  sin.  Concupiscence  is  not  of  the  na- 
ture of  sin.  This  is  the  doctrine  of  original  sin,  which 
Perrone  expressly  lays  down  in  the  opening  of  his  trea- 
tise (p.  2,  3 sq.),  ‘ that  the  essence  of  original  sin  is  in 
the  defect  of  grace  or  of  original  righteousness.’  This 
is  the  only  view  of  the  matter  with  which  the  dogma 
of  the  immaculate  conception  can  possibly  be  reconciled. 
If  this  view  is  false — if  original  sin,  as  Protestants  hold, 
according  to  the  Scriptures,  be  positive  and  not  nega- 
tive, and  come  by  descent,  then  the  conclusion  is  irre- 
sistible that  Mary,  by  descent,  must  have  had  a part 
therein.  The  dogma  of  her  immaculate  conception  is 
possible  only  with  a false  view  of  the  nature  of  the  ‘sin 
of  birth.’  Augustine  could  not  have  held  it,  nor  could 
Aquinas.  The  dogma  is  conceived  in  a defective  no- 
tion of  original  sin.  Yet  again,  even  with  this  defective 
view  of  original  sin,  the  dogma  is  involved  in  difficul- 
ties and  internal  conflicts  by  what  it  asserts  and  implies 
as  to  the  origin  of  the  soul  of  Mary.  The  theory  on 
which  it  rests  is,  that  [Mary’s  soul  was  directly  created 
by  God.  It  declares  that  the  Virgin  Mary,  ‘ at  the  first 
instant  of  her  conception,’  was  preserved  immaculate. 
What  is  meant  by  ‘ conception’  here  ? It  is  the  so- 
called  ‘ passive  conception,’  or  the  infusion  cf  the  soul 
into  the  seed,  the  union  of  the  soul  of  [Mary  with  the 
body,  prepared  beforehand  in  the  ‘active  conception.’ 
Whence,  now,  this  soul  ? It  was  ‘ created The  ‘ Let- 
ters,’ in  another  passage,  say  that  [Mary  was  the  ‘taber- 
nacle created  by  God  himself.’  Pius  IX  also  cites  the 
formula  of  Alexander  VII  as  having  ‘decretive’  authori- 
ty, and  that  formula  declares  ‘ that  [Mary’s  soul,  at  the 
first  instant  of  creation  and  of  infusion  into  the  body,’ 
was  preserved  free  from  original  sin.  This  hypothesis 
of  ‘ creatianism’  is  also  the  only  hypothesis  consonant 
with  the  doctrine.  But  now  put  these  two  positions  to- 
gether, namely,  that  original  sin  consists  essentially  in 
privation ; that  is,  in  the  defect  of  original  justice ; and 
that  Mary’s  soul  was  directly  created  by  God,  and  we 
arrive  at  the  following  difficulties  and  dilemmas.  The 
position  is  this : When  Mary’s  soul  was  created  and  in- 
fused into  her  body,  she  was  by  grace  preserved  free 
from  original  sin.  Would  the  original  sin,  from  which 
she  was  kept,  have  come  to  her  from  her  body  or  from 
her  soul? — for  it  must  have  come  from  one  or  the  other. 
If  one  says  that  it  would  have  come  from  the  soul,  this 
involves  the  consequence  that  God  usually  creates  origi- 
nal sin  in  the  soul  before  it  is  united  with  the  body, 
and,  of  course,  before  it  is  connected  with  Adam  by  de- 
scent. If  one  says,  on  the  other  hand,  that  original  sin 
would  have  come  to  [Mary  from  her  ‘ active  conception,’ 
that  is,  from  her  prepared  body,  then  it  was  already 
there,  in  germ  and  seed,  before  the  infusion  of  the  soul. 
God  either  creates  the  human  soul  with  original  sin,  or 
the  original  sin  is  from  the  parents.  If  the  former,  we 
have  original  sin  without  any  connection  with  Adam; 
if  the  latter,  Mary  must  have  been  really  possessed  of  it. 
But  it  may  be  said  original  sin  consists  in  defect,  priva- 
tion, and  that  the  dogma  means  that  God  created  Ma- 
ry’s sold  perfectly  holy.  This  raises  another  difficulty; 
for  it  is  also  asserted  that  he  created  her  thus  holy  on 
the  ground  of  Christ’s  merits,  and  that,  had  it  not  been 
for  Christ’s  merits,  she  would  have  shared  the  sin  of  the 
race.  This  creation,  now,  must  have  been  either  through 
the  race  (the  connection  with  Adam)  or  above  the  race, 
either  mediate  or  immediate.  If  through  the  race  or 
mediate,  then  she  must  have  had  a part  in  its  snifulness ; 
if  above  the  race,  or  an  immediate  creation,  then  there 


IMMANUEL 


IMMACULATE  CONCEPTION  51 

is  no  theological  or  rational  ground  for  saying  that,  as 
far  as  her  creation  was  concerned,  she  was  liable  to  sin, 
or  could  be  saved  from  it  through  Christ’s  merits.  Nor 
can  any  relief  be  found  by  conjoining  the  two  points, 
and  asserting  that  the  exemption  from  original  sin  con- 
cerns the  time  or  point  of  union  of  the  soul  with  the 
seed,  the  conjunction  of  the  active  with  the  passive  con- 
ception. For  the  still  unanswered  question  here  is,  and 
must  be  this:  In  the  union  of  the  soul  with  the  body, 
from  which  of  the  two,  soul  or  body,  would  the  original 
sin  have  come,  if  grace  had  not  prevented  ? — for  it  must 
have  come  from  one  or  the  other.  If  from  the  soul,  then 
you  have  original  sin  without  any  connection  with  Adam ; 
if  from  the  body,  then  original  sin  must  already  have 
been  there ; if  from  both  together,  this  simply  dodges 
the  question,  or  else  resolves  original  sin  into  some  act 
consequent  upon  the  union — that  is,  into  actual  trans- 
gression. Nor  is  the  matter  helped  by  saying  that  orig- 
inal sin  is  essentially  negative,  privative;  for  the  priva- 
tion has  respect  to  either  the  soul  or  the  body,  or  to  both 
conjoined,  and  the  same  dilemmas  result.  The  ‘ Let- 
ters Apostolic,’  in  other  passages,  speak  of  the  dogma  in 
this  wise : that  the  ‘ Blessed  Virgin  was  free  from  all 
contagion  of  body,  soul,  and  mind;’  that  she  had  ‘com-  ' 
mimity  with  men  only  in  their  nature,  but  not  in  their  j 
fault :’  and  that  ‘ the  flesh  of  the  Virgin  taken  from  | 
Adam  did  not  admit  the  stain  of  Adam,  and  on  this  ac-  \ 
count  that  the  most  blessed  Virgin  was  the  tabernacle  j 
created  by  God  himself,  formed  by  the  Holy  Spirit.’ 
These  expressions  imply  that  the  fault  in  the  case  could 
have  been  a fault  of ‘nature:’  that  the  contagion  might 
have  been  of  the  ‘body;’  that  the  ‘stain  from  Adam’ 
would,  under  other  circumstances,  have  come  to  her 
through  the  ‘flesh.’  But  in  her  ‘active  conception,’ 
before  the  infusion  of  the  soul  and  of  grace,  the  ‘na- 
ture,’ the  ‘body,’  the  ‘flesh,’  were  already  extant,  ere 
the  ‘passive  conception’  took  place:  were  they  with  or 
without  the  fault?  If  with  the  fault,  then  you  have 
original  sin;  if  without,  then  it  would  follow  that  the 
flesh,  the  body,  the  nature,  before  the  passive  conception, 
had  been  already  delivered  from  the  bondage  of  corrup- 
tion. In  short,  if  original  sin  come  from  the  race,  from 
the  ‘ active  conception,’  then  Mary  must  have  had  it ; 
if  it  come  from  the  ‘passive  conception,’  then  God  is  its 
direct  author  in  every  individual  case.  This  dogma  of 
the  immaculate  conception,  then,  contains  contradictory 
elements ; it  rests  on  a false  view  of  original  sin.  Even 
that  false  view  cannot  well  be  reconciled : it  assumes 
the  theory  that  souis  .are  directly  created,  and  here  again  I 
it  involves  itself  in  inextricable  difficulties  in  relation  to 
original  sin.  It  is  opposed  to  .Scripture,  to  tradition,  and 
it  is  self-opposed.” 

In  conclusion,  there  is  left  to  us  only  the  present  at- 
titude of  the  Roman  pontiff,  who,  since  his  declaration 
of  infallibility,  more  than  ever,  is  forced  into  a position 
which  puts  the  matter  of  papal  infallibility  in  a disa- 
greeable dilemma  and  dualism.  “ The  decree  of  Pius 
IX  is  in  opposition  to  the  express  declarations  of  pre- 
ceding pontiffs;  pope  is  arrayed  against  pope;  infalli- 
bility is  discordant  with  infallibility.  Not  only  has  ‘ a 
probable  opinion  become  improbable.’  but  Peter’s  chair  | 
is  divided  against  itself;  and  how,  then,  can  that  king-  ! 
dom  stand?  The  Jansenist  Launoy,  in  his  Prescrip- 
tions, has  collected  the  opinions  adverse  to,  or  irrecon- 
cilable with  the  dogma,  of  seven  of  the  successors  of  St. 
Peter,  who  never  change.  From  pope  Leo  (440-461), 
the  greatest  and  most  learned  of  the  early  bishops  of 
Rome,  he  cites  four  passages  in  which  Leo  declares  that 
Christ  alone  ‘ was  innocent  in  his  birth,’  alone  was 
‘free  from  original  sin,’  and  that  Christ  received  from 
his  mother  ‘her  nature,  but  not  her  fault;’  and  he  as- 
serts that  MaTy  obtained  ‘ her  own  purification  through 
her  conception  ofi Christ'  This  is  wholly  averse  to  the 
dogma.  Innocent  III,  who  called  the  Lateran  Council 
in  1213,  in  a sermon  on  the  ‘Assumption  of  Christ,’  com- 
paring Eve  and  Mary,  writes : ‘ Ilia  fuit  sine  culpa  pro- 
ducta,  sed  in  culpa  produxit;  haec  autem  fuit  in  culpa 


producta,  sed  sine  culpa  produxit.’  Gregory  says  (590- 
604),  ‘John  the  Baptist  was  conceived  in  sin;  Christ 
(done  was  conceived  without  sin.’  Innocent  Y (1276), 
in  his  Commentary  on  the  Master  of  Sentences:  ‘Non 
convenit  tantas  Yirgini  ut  diu  morata  sit  in  peccato ;’ 
and  lie  adds  that  she  was  sanctified  quickly  after  the 
animation  (that  is,  of  the  body  by  the  soul),  although 
not  in  the  very  moment.  This  is  directly  against  the 
dogma.  John  XXII  or  Benedict  XII  (c.  1340)  says  that 
Mary  ‘passed  at  first from  a state  of  original  sin  to  a 
state  of  grace.’  Clement  YI  (1342-52),  ‘ I suppose,  ac- 
cording to  the  common  opinion  as  yet,  that  the  bless- 
ed Yirgin  was  in  original  sin’  modica  morula,  ‘ because, 
according  to  all,  she  was  sanctified  as  soon  as  she  could 
be  sanctified.' 

“ Thus  the  papacy,  in  committing  itself  to  this  new 
and  idolatrous  dogma,  is  in  hostility  to  Scripture,  to 
universal  consent,  and  also  to  itself.  It  explains  the 
sense  of  Scripture  by  tradition;  and  it  explains  the 
sense  of  tradition  by  an  infallible  expositor,  and  that 
infallible  expositor  contradicts  itself.  The  new  dogma 
makes  the  whole  of  the  early  Church  to  have  been  igno- 
rant of  a truth  which  is  now  declared  to  be  necessary  to 
the  faith ; it  makes  Leo,  Innocent  III,  Innocent  Y,  and 
Clement  Y to  have  taught  heresy;  it  puts  the  greatest 
scholastic  divines  under  the  ban ; and,  while  doing  this, 
it  declares  that  what  is  now  decreed  has  always  been  of 
the  faith  of  the  Church,  and  that  it  is  a part  of  the  rev- 
elation of  God,  given  through  Christ  and  the  apostles, 
and  handed  down  by  constant  succession  and  general 
consent.” 

See  Smith,  in  Meth.  Qn.  Rev.  April,  1855;  Christian 
Remembrancer,  Oct.  1855,  p.  419 ; Jan.  1866,  p.  175 ; July, 
1868,  p.  134;  Westminster  Rev.  April,  1867,  p.  155  sq.; 
Ffoulkes,  Christendom's  Divisions,  i,  103 ; Neander,  Chr. 
Dogtnas,  ii,  599;  Haag,  Hist,  des  Dngnies  Chretiennes,  i, 
291  sq.,  435  sq. ; Cramp,  Text-book  of  Popery,  p.  104  sq.; 
Milman,  Lat.  Christianity,  p.  8, 208 ; Prcuss,  Die  romische 
Lehre  v.  d.  unbefieckten  Kmpjangniss  a.  d.  Quellen  (lar- 
gestellt  u.  a Gottes  Wait,  widerleyt  (Berlin,  1865) ; Blunt, 
Theol.  Encyclop.  i,  328  sq.  See  also  Mary;  Mariola- 

TRY. 

Immaculate-Conception  Oath  is  among  the 
Roman  Catholics  the  assurance  by  oath  of  a belief  in 
and  support  of  the  doctrine  of  the  immaculate  concep- 
tion of  the  Yirgin  Mary.  It  was  introduced  by  the 
Sorbonne  in  consequence  of  the  disputes  on  this  subject 
between  the  Franciscans  and  Dominicans  [see  Immac- 
ulate Conception],  as  a test  oath  for  admission  to  an 
academical  degree.  The  Jesuits  made  this  a test  oath 
also  for  other  privileges. — Theol.  Unir.  Lex.  i,  404.  (J. 

II.  W.) 

Immanent  Activity  of  God,  the  pantheistical 
tenet  that  God  does  not  exist  outside  of  the  world,  as  a 
free  personal  (transcendental)  being,  but  inside  of  it,  as 
the  highest  unity  of  the  world,  because  God  cannot,  ac- 
cording to  it,  be  conceived  of  without  the  world.  Saisset 
(Mod.  Pantheism,  ii,  91)  thus  sums  it  up:  “He  (God) 
creates  the  world  within  himself,  and  thenceforth  there 
is  no  separation  of  the  Creator  and  the  creature,  for  the 
creature  is  still  the  Creator  considered  in  his  eternal  and 
necessary  action.”  See  Pantheism. 

Imman'uel  (Heb.  Immanuel',  sometimes 

separately  bx  siSSJ*,  God  with  us,  as  it  is  interpreted 
Matt,  i,  23,  where  it  is  written  EyyavovgX,  as  in  the 
Sept.,  and  Anglicized  “ Emmanuel the  Sept,  however, 
in  Isa.  viii,  8,  translates  it  ptS’  igiCov  b Stoq ; Yulg.  Em- 
manuel), a figurative  name  prescribed  through  the  proph- 
et for  a child  that  shoidd  be  bom  as  a sign  to  Ahaz  of 
the  speedy  downfall  of  Syria  (B.C.  cir.  739;  see  2 Kings 
xvi,  9)  and  violent  interregnum  of  the  kingdom  of  Is- 
rael (B.C.  737-728;  see  2 Kings  xv,  30;  comp,  xvii,  1), 
before  the  infant  should  become  capable  of  distinguish- 
ing between  wholesome  and  improper  kinds  of  food. 
The  name  occurs  only  in  the  celebrated  verse  of  Isaiah 
(vii,  14),  “Behold,  a [rather  the]  virgin  shall  conceive 


IMMANUEL 


511 


IMMENSITY  OF  GOD 


and.  bear  a son,  and  shall  call  his  name  Immanuel,”  and 
in  another  passage  of  the  same  prophet  (Isa.  viii,  8), 
where  the  ravaging  army  of  the  Assyrians  is  described 
as  ere  long  to  “ till  the  breadth  of  thy  land,  O Imman- 
uel” i.  e.  Jiukea,  with  evident  allusion  to  the  former 
declaration.  See  Aiiaz.  In  the  name  itself  there  is 
no  difficulty ; but  the  verse,  as  a whole,  has  been  vari- 
ously interpreted.  From  the  manner  in  which  the  word 
God,  and  even  Jehovah,  is  used  in  the  composition  of 
Hebrew  names,  there  is  no  such  peculiarity  in  that  of 
Immanuel  as  in  itself  requires  us  to  understand  that  he 
who  bore  it  must  be  in  fact  God.  Indeed,  it  is  used  as 
a proper  name  among  the  Jews  at  this  day.  This  high 
sense  has,  however,  been  assigned  to  it  in  consequence 
of  the  application  of  the  whole  verse,  by  the  evangelist 
Matthew  (i,  23),  to  our  divine  Saviour.  Even  if  this 
reference  did  not  exist,  the  history  of  the  Nativity 
would  irresistibly  lead  us  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
verse — whatever  may  have  been  its  intermediate  signi- 
fication— had  an  idtimate  reference  to  Christ.  See  Isai- 
ah. The  state  of  opinion  on  this  point  has  been  thus 
concisely  summed  up  by  Dr.  Henderson  in  his  note  on 
the  text : “ This  verse  has  long  been  a subject  of  dis- 
pute between  Jews  and  professedly  Christian  writers, 
and  among  the  latter  mutually.  While  the  former  re- 
ject its  application  to  the  Messiah  altogether — the  ear- 
lier Babbins  explaining  it  of  the  queen  of  Ahaz  and  the 
birth  of  his  son  Hezekiah,  and  the  later,  as  Kimchi 
and  Abarbanel,  of  the  prophet’s  own  wife  — the  great 
body  of  Christian  interpreters  have  held  it  to  be  direct- 
ly and  exclusively  a prophecy  of  our  Saviour,  and  have 
considered  themselves  fully  borne  out  by  the  inspired 
testimony  of  the  evangelist  Matthew.  Others,  how- 
ever, have  departed  from  this  construction  of  the  pas- 
sage, and  have  invented  or  adopted  various  hypotheses 
in  support  of  such  dissent.  Grotius,  Faber,  Isenbield, 
Hezel,  Bolten,  Fritzsehe,  Pluschke,  Gesenius,  and  Ilit- 
zig,  suppose  either  the  then  present  or  a future  wife  of 
Isaiah  to  be  the  fV2!p5>»  olmah  [rendered  ‘virgin’],  re- 
ferred to.  Eiehhom,  Paulus,  llensler,  and  Ammon  are 
of  opinion  that  the  prophet  had  nothing  more  in  view 
than  an  ideal  virgin,  and  that  both  she  and  her  son  are 
merely  imaginary  personages,  introduced  for  the  pur- 
pose of  prophetic  illustration.  Bauer,  Cube,  Steudel, 
and  some  others,  think  that  the  prophet  pointed  to  a 
young  woman  in  the  presence  of  the  king  and  his  court- 
iers. A fourth  class,  among  whom  are  Bicliard  Simon, 
Lowth,  Koppe,  Dathe,  Williams,  Yon  Meyer,  Olshausen, 
and  Dr.  J.  Pye  Smith,  admit  the  hypothesis  of  a double 
sense  (q.  v.) : one,  in  which  the  words  apply  primarily 
to  some  female  living  in  the  time  of  the  prophet,  and 
her  giving  birth  to  a son  according  to  the  ordinary  laws 
of  nature ; or,  as  Dathe  holds,  to  some  virgin,  who  at 
that  time  should  miraculously  conceive ; and  the  other, 
in  which  they  received  a secondary  and  plenary  fulfil- 
ment in  the  miraculous  conception  and  birth  of  Jesus 
Christ.”  (See  the  monographs  enumerated  by  Volbe- 
ding,  Index , p.  14 ; and  Fiirst,  Bib.  Jud.  ii,  GO ; also  Heng- 
stenberg,  Christol.  des  A.  T.  ii,  69,  and  the  commenta- 
tors in  general;  compare  the  Stud. u. Krit.  1830, iii, 538.) 
This  last  seems  to  us  the  only  consistent  interpretation. 
That  the  child  to  be  so  designated  was  one  soon  to  be 
born  and  already  spoken  of  is  clear  from  the  entire  con- 
text and  drift  of  the  prophecy.  It  can  be  no  other  than 
the  Maher-shalal-hash-baz  (q.  v.),  the  offspring  of  the 
prophet’s  own  marriage  with  the  virgin  prophetess,  who 
thus  became  an  eminent  type  of  the  Messiah’s  mother 
(Isa.  viii,  18).  See  Virgin. 

Immanuel,  ben-Salomon  Bomi,  a Jewish  philos- 
opher, commentator,  and  poet,  was  born  at  Borne  about 
1265.  Endowed  with  great  natural  ability,  and  with  a 
fondness  for  study,  he  soon  made  himself  master  of  Bib- 
lical and  Talmudic,  as  well  as  of  Grecian  and  Latin  lit- 
erature. He  was  a contemporary  of  Dante,  and,  being 
much  given  to  a cultivation  of  the  same  art  in  which 
Dante  immortalized  his  name,  “the  two  spirits,  kindred, 
and  yet  different  in  many  respects,  formed  a mutual  and 


intimate  attachment.”  He  died  about.  1330.  Imman- 
uel wrote  commentaries  on  the  whole  Jewish  Bible,  ex- 
cepting the  minor  prophets  and  Ezra.  They  are  en- 
riched not  only  by  valuable  grammatical  and  archajo- 
logical  notes,  but  contain  also  some  able  remarks  on  the 
nature  and  spirit  of  the  poetical  books.  “ It  is  greatly 
to  be  regretted  that  of  all  his  exegetical  works,  which 
are  in  different  public  libraries  of  Europe,  the  Com- 
mentary on  Proverbs  and  Some  Glosses  on  the  Psalms  are 
the  only  ones  as  yet  published,  the  former  in  Naples  in 
1486,  and  the  latter  in  Parma  in  1806.  The  introduc- 
tion of  his  commentary  on  the  Song  of  Songs  has  been 
published,  with  an  English  translation,  by  Ginsburg: 
Historical  and  Critical  Commentary  on  the  Sony  of 
Songs  (Loud.  1857,  p.  49-55)”  (Ginsburg  in  Kitto).  He 
wrote  also  some  philosophical  treatises,  and  translated 
for  his  Jewish  brethren  the  philosophical  writings  of 
Albertus  the  Great,  Thomas  Aquinas,  and  other  cele- 
brated philosophers.  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  der  Juden.  vii, 
307  sq.;  Geiger,  1 Vissenschaftliche  Zeitschrift , 1839,  iv, 
194  sq. ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  ii,  92  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Immateriality  is  a quality  of  God  and  of  the  hu- 
man soul.  The  immateriality  of  God  denotes  that  he 
forms  an  absolute  contrast  to  matter ; he  is  simple,  and 
has  no  parts,  and  so  cannot  be  dissolved ; matter,  on  the 
other  hand,  is  made  up  of  parts  into  which  it  can  be  re- 
solved. God  is  also  free  from  the  limitations  to  which 
matter  is  snbject,  i.  e.  from  the  limits  of  space  and  time. 
The  immateriality  of  God  is  therefore  the  basis  of  the 
qualities  of  eternity,  omnipresence,  and  unchangeable- 
ness. Thus  the  immateriality  of  the  soul  includes  like- 
wise simplicity  as  another  of  its  qualities.  This,  of 
course,  does  not  absolutely  set  it  above  the  limitations  of 
space  and  time,  since  the  soul  needs  the  body  for  a nec- 
essary organ  of  its  life ; nor  does  it  set  aside  any  further 
development,  but  it  certainly  includes  indestructibility, 
and  thus  serves  as  a proof  of  immortality  (q.  v.).  The 
materiality  of  the  sold  was  asserted  by  Tertullian,  Arno- 
bius,  and  others,  during  the  first  three  centuries.  Near 
the  close  of  the  fourth,  the  immateriality  of  the  soul 
was  maintained  by  Augustine,  Nemesius,  and  Mamertus 
Clan  dianus.  See  Guizot,  History  of  Civilization,  i,  394 ; 
Krauth,  Vocab.  of  Philos,  p.  245.  See  also  Immensity 
of  Gor> ; Soul,  Traduction  of. 

Immediate  Imputation  of  Sin.  See  Impu- 
tation. 

Immensity  of  God  is  explained  by  Dr.  J.  Pye 

Smith  ( First  Lines  of  Christ.  Theol.  p.  138)  to  be  the  ab- 
solute necessity  of  being,  considered  in  relation  to  space. 
“There  is  with  God  no  diffusion  nor  contraction, no  ex- 
tension nor  circumspection,  or  any  such  relation  to  space 
as  belongs  to  limited  natures.  God  is  equally  near  to, 
and  equally  far  from,  every  point  of  space  and  every 
atom  of  the  universe.  He  is  universally  and  immedi- 
ately present,  not  as  a body,  but  as  a spirit ; not  by 
motion,  or  penetration,  or  filling,  as  would  be  predicated 
of  a diffused  fluid,  or  in  any  way  as  if  the  infinity  of 
God  were  composed  of  a countless  number  of  finite 
parts,  but  in  a vra y peculiar  to  bis  owrn  spiritual  and 
perfect  nature,  and  of  which  we  can  form  no  concep- 
tion.” In  the  passages  of  Job  xi,7-9;  1 Kings  viii,  27 
(2  Chron.  id,  18) ; Psa.  cxxxix,  7-13 ; Isa.  Ixvi,  1 ; Jer. 
xxiii,  23,  24;  Amos  ix.  2,  3;  Matt,  vi,  4,  6;  Acts  xvii, 
24,  27,  28 ; also  Isa.  xl,  12-15,  21,  22,  25, 26,  “the  repre- 
sentations are  such  as  literally  indicate  a kind  of  dif- 
fused and  filling  subtile  material;  but  this  is  the  conde- 
scending manner  of  the  Scriptures,  and  is  evidently  to 
be  understood  with  an  exclusion  of  material  ideas. 
Metaphysical  or  philosophical  preciseness  is  not  in  the 
character  of  scriptural  composition,  nor  would  it  ever 
suit  the  bulk  of  mankind;  and  no  language  or  concep- 
tions of  men  can  reach  the  actual  expression  of  the  truth, 
or  be  any  other  than  analogical.  When  the  Scriptures 
speak  of  “ God  being  in  heaven ,”  they  mean  his  suprem- 
acy in  all  perfection,  and  his  universal  dominion.” 

Immensity  and  omnipresence,  again,  are^listinguished 
in  that  “ the  former  is  absolute,  being  the  necessary  in- 


BD1ER 


512 


BBIERSION- 


herent  perfection  of  the  Deity  in  itself,  as  infinitely  ex- 
alted above  all  conception  of  space;  and  that  the  latter 
is  relative,  arising  out  of  the  position  of  a created  world. 
The  moment  that  world  commenced,  or  the  first  created 
portion  of  it,  there  was  and  ever  remains  the  divine 
presence  (ovvovota,  adessentia)." 

The  qualities  of  extension  and  divisibility  are  those  of 
body,  not  of  a pure,  proper,  highest  spirit.  “ Socinus 
and  his  immediate  followers  denied  a proper  ubiquity, 
immensity,  or  omnipresence  to  the  essence  or  substance 
of  the  Deity,  and  represented  the  universal  presence  of 
God  spoken  of  in  Scripture  as  denoting  only  the  acts 
and  effects  of  his  power,  favor,  and  aid.”  Des  Cartes 
and  his  followers  held  “ that  the  essence  of  the  Deity  is 
thought,  and  that  it  has  no  relation  to  space.”  See  J.  Pye 
Smith,  First  Lines  of  Christian  Theology,  edited  by  W. 
Farrar  (2d  ed.  Lond.  1861) ; Augustine,  De  Civ.  Dei,  20 ; 
Bretschneider,  Dogmatik,  i,  39G  sq.  See  Omnipresence 
of  God. 

Im'mer  (Heb.  Immer',  "llsst,  talkative,  or,  accord- 
ing to  F first,  high  ; Sept.  ’Eju/o/o),  the  name  of  several 
priests,  mostly  near  the  time  of  the  Exile. 

1.  The  head  of  the  sixteenth  sacerdotal  division,  ac- 
cording to  David’s  appointment  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  14). 
B.C.  1014. 

2.  The  father  of  Pashur,  which  latter  so  grossly  mis- 
used the  prophet  Jeremiah  (Jer.  xx,  1).  B.C.  ante  607. 
By  many  the  name  is  regarded  here  as  put  patronymic- 
ally  for  the  preceding. 

3.  One  whose  descendants  to  the  number  of  1052  re- 
turned from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Ezra  ii,  37 ; Neb. 
vii,  40).  He  is  very  possibly  the  same  with  the  father 
of  Mesliilleraoth  (Nch.xi,  13)  or  Meshillemith  (1  Chron. 
ix,  12),  certain  of  whose  descendants  took  a conspicu- 
ous part  in  the  sacred  duties  at  Jerusalem  after  the  Ex- 
ile; and  probably  the  same  with  the  one  some  of  whose 
descendants  divorced  their  Gentile  wives  at  the  instance 
of  Ezra  (Ezra  x,  20).  B.C.  much  ante  536.  By  some 
he  is  identified  with  the  two  preceding. 

4.  One  who  accompanied  Zerubbabel  from  Babylon, 
but  was  unable  to  prove  his  Israelitish  descent  (Ezra  ii, 
59 ; Neh.  v ii,  61).  B.C.  536.  It  does  not  clearly  appear, 
however,  that  he  claimed  to  belong  to  the  priestly  or- 
der, and  it  is  possible  that  the  name  is  only  given  as 
that  of  a place  in  the  Babylonian  dominions  from  which 
some  of  those  named  in  the  following  verses  came. 

5.  The  father  of  Zadok,  which  latter  repaired  part  of 
the  walls  of  Jerusalem  opposite  his  house  (Neh.  iii,  29). 
B.C.  ante  446.  lie  was,  perhaps,  the  same  as  No.  3. 

Immersion,  the  act  of  plunging  into  water,  espe- 
cially the  person  of  the  candidate  in  Christian  baptism, 
as  performed  by  the  Baptist  (q.  v.)  denomination,  and 
occasionally  by  others.  There  are  two  controversies 
that  require  to  be  noticed  under  this  head. 

I.  Is  this  mode  or  act  essential  to  the  validity  of  the 
ordinance  itself  ? — The  affirmative  of  this  question  is 
maintained  by  those  denominationally  styled  “ Bap- 
tists,” and  is  denied  by  nearly  all  other  classes  of 
Christians.  For  the  arguments  on  both  sides,  see  the 
article  Baptism. 

II.  A re  the  terms  “ immerse ,”  “ immersion ,”  etc.  prefer- 
able or  more  correct  in  a version  of  the  Scriptures,  than 
“ baptize ,”  “baptism,”  etc.? — The  affirmative  of  this 
question  is  taken  by  many,  but  not  by  all  Baptists,  and 
it  is  approved,  to  some  extent  at  least,  by  certain  schol- 
ars in  most  other  denominations,  while  the  negative  is 
held  by  the  vast  majority  of  Bible  readers.  The  change 
was  actually  made  by  Dr.  Campbell  in  his  work  on  the 
Gospels,  and  recently  a systematic  effort  has  been  made 
on  a large  scale  to  give  currency  to  the  alteration  by 
the  translations  put  forth  under  the  auspices  of  the 
American  (Baptist)  Bible  Union.  See  Bible  Socie- 
ties, 5.  The  arguments  for  this  rendering  are  set  forth 
in  all  their  strength  by  Dr.  Con  ant,  in  a note  to  his 
translation  of  Matthew,  at  ii,  6,  as  follows  (to  each  of 
which  we  subjoin  the  counter  arguments)  : 

“ i.  This  word  expressed  a particular  act,  viz.  immer- 


sion in  a fluid  or  any  yielding  substance.  See  the  Ap- 
pendix to  this  volume,  sections  i— iii.”  The  Appendix 
thus  referred  to  is  Dr.  Conant’s  treatise  On  the  Meaning 
and  Use  of  Baptizein,  etc.  The  proofs  there  given,  how- 
ever, do  not  seem  to  sustain  this  precise  point ; the  pas- 
sages cited  do  indeed  show  that  (iawriZeiv  means  to 
whelm  or  envelop  with  a liquid,  but  do  not  indicate  any 
uniform  method,  such  as  dipping,  plunging;  nor  do  they 
necessarily  imply  motion  on  the  part  of  the  subject  into 
the  fluid,  as  “ immersion”  clearly  does. 

“ ii.  The  word  had  no  other  meaning ; it  expressed 
this  act,  either  literally  or  in  a metaphorical  sense, 
through  the  whole  period  of  its  use  in  Greek  literature. 
Append,  sect,  iii.”  This  assertion  is  palpably  refuted  by 
the  fact  that  Dr.  Conant  himself,  in  but  a part  of  these 
very  quotations  here  appealed  to,  has  ventured  to  ren- 
der fiairrifyiv  by  “ immerse ;”  for  he  is  very  frequent- 
ly constrained  to  translate  it  “ immerge,”  “ submerge,” 
“ dip,”  “ plunge,”  “ imbathe.”  “ whelm,”  etc.  These 
words,  it  is  true,  have  the  same  general  signification ; 
but,  supposing  that  they  were  in  every  case  suitable 
renderings  (which  in  many  cases  they  are  not),  yet  they 
do  not  establish  the  identical  point  in  dispute,  namely, 
the  exclusive  translation  by  “ immerse,”  etc.,  as  if  “ the 
word  had  no  other  meaning.” 

“iii.  Its  grammatical  construction  with  other  words, 
and  the  circumstances  connected  with  its  use,  accord 
entirely  with  this  meaning,  and  exclude  every  other. 
Append,  sect,  iii,  2.”  On  the  contrary,  the  prepositions 
and  cases  by  which  it  is  followed,  being  generally  Iv 
with  the  dative,  indicate  precisely  the  opposite  conclu- 
sion; insomuch  that  in  even  the  comparatively  few  in- 
stances where  “ immerse”  can  be  given  as  a rendering 
at  all,  it  is  scarcely  allowable  except  by  the  ambiguity 
“ immersed  in,”  which  in  English  is  used  for  “ immersed 
into.”  In  the  Greek  language,  as  every  scholar  knows, 
no  such  imprecision  exists. 

“ iv.  In  the  age  of  Christ  and  his  apostles,  as  in  all 
periods  of  the  language,  it  was  in  common  use  to  ex- 
press the  most  familiar  acts  and  occurrences  of  every- 
day life;  as,  for  example,  immersing  an  axe  in  water,  to 
harden  it ; wool  in  a dye,  to  color  it ; an  animal  in  water, 
to  drown  it ; a ship  submerged  in  the  waves ; rocks  im- 
mersed in  the  tide;  and  (metaphorically)  immersed  in 
cares,  in  sorroto,  in  ignorance,  in  poverty,  in  debt,  in  stu- 
por and  sleep,  etc.  Append,  sect,  iii,  1.”  Bather  these 
examples  should  be  rendered,  an  axe  tempered  by  cold 
water,  wrool  tinged  with  dye,  drowned  in  wrater,  sunk  ly 
the  waves,  covered  with  the  tide,  overwhelmed  with  cares, 
etc.  The  familiarity  of  the  word  is  another  matter,  be- 
longing to  the  next  argument. 

“ v.  There  was  nothing  sacred  in  the  word  itself,  or 
in  the  act  w hich  it  expressed.  The  idea  of  sacredness 
belonged  solely  to  the  relation  in  which  the  act  was 
performed.  Append,  sect,  iv,  7.”  This  fact  is  no  good 
reason  why,  when  it  is  manifestly  employed  in  such  sa- 
cred relations,  it  should  not  be  rendered  by  a term  ap- 
propriate to  such  a sacredness.  This  argument  applies 
only  to  those  passages  in  which  the  wrord  occurs  in  a 
secular  sense ; about  these  there  is  no  dispute. 

“vi.  In  none  of  these  respects  does  the  word  baptize, 
as  used  by  English  wTiters,  correspond  with  the  origi- 
nal Greek  word.”  This  has  already  been  met  in  sub- 
stance above.  The  remainder  of  the  arguments,  with 
one  exception,  need  not  be  reproduced,  as  they  are  of 
a doctrinal  character,  aimed  at  the  odium  theologicum, 
which  is  a method  of  reasoning  inconclusive,  if  not  un- 
worthy  in  a philological  question. 

“ xi.  In  rendering  the  Greek  word  by  immerse,  I fol- 
low the  example  of  the  leading  vernacular  versions, 
made  from  the  Greek,  in  the  languages  of  Continental 
Europe,  and  also  of  the  critical  versions  made  for  the 
use  of  the  learned.”  Facts,  howrever,  do  not  support  this 
claim  with  any  uniformity.  The  modem  versions,  of 
course,  render  according  to  the  theological  leanings  of 
their  authors,  and,  were  they  unanimous,  they  could  not 
be  permitted  to  decide  a question  of  this  kind  by  au- 


IMMOLATION 


513 


IMMORTALITY 


thority.  The  best  and  oldest  guides,  the  early  Latins, 
freely  transfer  the  term  baptizo,  giving  it  a regular  ter- 
mination like  other  native  verbs ; they  rarely,  if  ever, 
render  by  “ immergo,”  “ immersio,”  etc.,  but  usually  give 
“ tinge,”  or,  at  most,  “ mergo.”  See  Dale,  Classic  Bap- 
tism (Philad.  1867),  which  thoroughly  reviews  the  in- 
stances of  the  use  of  /3a7rW£a >.  In  a subsequent  vol- 
ume, Judaic  Baptism  (Philad.  1870),  Dr.  Dale  meets  the 
whole  controversy  in  question,  and  proves  conclusively 
the  incorrectness  of  translating  /3a7m'£w  by  “immerse.” 

There  are  other  positive  arguments  against  the  sub- 
stitution of  “immerse”  4s  an  equivalent  to  ftarrri^tiv : 
1.  The  word  is  no  more  English  than  “baptize one  is 
of  Latin  derivation,  and  the  other  Greek,  while  neither 
is  of  Saxon  origin.  Yet  both  are  perfectly  intelligible, 
and  it  is  pretty  certain  that,  but  for  the  advantage  which 
“immerse”  gives  to  one  party  in  polemics,  it  would  nev- 
er have  been  thought  worth  while  to  make  the  ex- 
change. 2.  “ Immerse,”  as  a compound  word,  does  not 
correspond  etymologically  with  the  Greek.  There  is 
nothing  answering  to  the  “ in-'  in  fiairri^ta ; it  should 
have  been  ipj^airri^tt)  (which  seldom  occurs),  or,  rather, 
ti(T{3a (which  is  never  used  at  all,  obviously  on 
account  of  the  incongruity  between  the  native  force  of 
the  primitive,  and  the  motion  inherently  implied  in  tit;). 
3.  The  outrageous  awkwardness  of  such  phrases  as  “ he 
will  immerse  you  in  holy  spirit  and  tire”  (sic  Conant), 
rendered  necessary  by  this  change,  is  a sufficient  critical 
objection  to  the  proposed  rendering,  were  there  no  other 
argument  against  it,  A theory  that  breaks  down  in 
this  shocking  manner  the  moment  it  is  applied  deserves 
only  a summary  rejection.  4.  These  translators  are  in- 
consistent with  themselves,  for  they  retain  the  expres- 
sion “John  the  Baptist,”  instead  of  calling  him  John  the 
Immerse r.  Nay,  they  ought  to  go  one  step  further,  and 
themselves  abjure  the  title  of  “ Baptists,”  which  they 
pre-eminently  arrogate,  and  should  name  themselves 
appropriately  “the  Innnersionists.”  It  is  highly  cred- 
itable that  the  mass  of  that  large  denomination  are  not 
disposed  to  be  drawn  into  this  specious  innovation. 

Immolation  (Lat.  immolatio)  is  the  name  of  a cer- 
emony performed  in  the  sacrifices  of  the  Romans.  It 
consisted  in  throwing  some  sort  of  corn  or  frankincense, 
together  with  the  mola  or  salt  cake,  and  a little  wine, 
on  the  head  of  the  victim.  See  Brande  and  Cox,  Diet, 
of  Science,  Lit.,  awl  Art,  ii,  197.  See  Sacrifice.  (J. 
H.W.) 

Immorality.  See  Morals. 

Immortality  is  the  perpetuity  of  existence  after 
it  has  once  begun  (Lat.  immortalitas,  not  dyiny).  “ £ If  a 
man  die,  shall  he  live  again  ?’  is  a question  which  has 
naturally  agitated  the  heart  and  stimidated  the  intellec- 
tual curiosity  of  mail,  wherever  he  has  risen  above  a 
state  of  barbarism,  and  commenced  to  exercise  his  intel- 
lect at  all.”  Without  such  a belief,  Max  Muller  ( Chips 
from  a German  Workshop,  i,  45)  well  says,  “ religion 
surely  is  like  an  arch  resting  on  one  pillar,  like  a bridge 
ending  in  an  abyss.”  It  is  very  gratifying,  therefore,  to 
the  believer,  and  a fact  worthy  of  notice,  that  the  affir- 
mative on  this  question  is  assumed  more  or  less  by  all 
the  nations  of  earth,  so  far  as  our  information  reaches 
at  the  present  day,  although,  it  is  true,  their  views  often 
assume  very  vague  and  even  materialistic  forms. 

I.  Ideas  of  rude  Nations. — We  concede  that  the  views 
of  most  rude  heathen  nations,  both  ancient  and  modern, 
respecting  the  state  of  man  after  death  are  indeed  dark 
and  obscure,  as  well  as  their  notions  respecting  the  na- 
ture of  the  soul  itself,  which  some  of  them  regard  as  a 
kind  of  aerial  substance,  resembling  the  body,  though 
of  a finer  material.  Still  it  is  found  that  the  greater 
part  of  mankind,  even  of  those  who  are  entirely  uncul- 
tivated, though  they  may  be  incapable  of  the  higher 
philosophical  idea  of  the  personal  immortality  of  the 
soul,  are  yet  inclined  to  believe  at  least  that  the  soul 
survives  the  body,  and  continues  either  forever,  or  at 
least  for  a very  long  time.  This  faith  seems  to  rest  in 
IV.— K k 


uncultivated  nations,  or,  better  perhaps,  races,  1,  upon 
the  lore  of  life,  which  is  deeply  planted  in  the  human 
breast,  and  leads  to  the  wish  and  hope  that  life  will  be 
continued  even  beyond  the  grave;  2,  upon  traditions 
transmitted  from  their  ancestors;  3,  upon  dreams,  in 
which  the  dead  appear  speaking  or  acting,  and  thus  con- 
firming both  wishes  and  traditions.  See  Necromancy. 

1.  Hindus. — In  the  sacred  books  of  the  Hindus  called 
the  Veda,  “ immortality  of  the  soul,  as  well  as  personal 
immortality  and  personal  responsibility  after  death,  is 
clearly  proclaimed”  (Muller,  Chips,  i,  45).  (We  have 
here  a refutation  of  the  opinion  that  has  hitherto  been 
entertained,  that  the  goal  of  Hinduism  is  absorption  [q. 
v.]  into  the  Universal  Spirit,  and  therefore  loss  of  indi- 
vidual existence,  and  that  the  Hindus  as  well  as  Brah- 
mans believe  in  the  trasmigration  [q.  v.]  of  the  soul, 
and  a refutation  by  a writer  who  is  most  competent  to 
speak.  Professor  Roth,  another  great  Sanscrit  scholar, 
in  an  article  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  So- 
ciety [iv,  427],  corroborates  Prof. INI tiller  in  these  words: 
“ We  here  [in  the  Veda]  find,  not  without  astonishment, 
beautiful  conceptions  on  immortality  expressed  in  un- 
adorned language  with  childlike  conviction.  If  it  were 
necessary,  we  might  find  here  the  most  powerful  weap- 
ons against  the  view  which  has  lately  been  revived  and 
proclaimed  as  new,  that  Persia  was  the  only  birthplace 
of  the  idea  of  immortality,  and  that  even  the  nations  of 
Europe  had  derived  it  from  that  quarter.  As  if  the  re- 
ligious spirit  of  every  gifted  race  was  not  able  [which 
Muller  (ii,  267)  holds]  to  arrive  at  it  by  its  own 
strength.”)  Thus  we  find  these  passages:  “He  who 
gives  alms  goes  to  the  highest  place  in  heaven ; he  goes 
to  the  gods”  (Rv.  i,  125,  56).  “Even  the  idea,  so  fre- 
quent in  the  later  literature  of  the  Brahmans,  that  im- 
mortality is  secured  by  .a  son,  seems  implied,  unless  our 
translation  deceives  ns,  in  one  passage  of  the  Veda  (vii, 
56,  24) : ‘ O Maruts,  may  there  be  to  us  a strong  son, 
who  is  a living  ruler  of  men ; through  whom  we  may 
cross  the  waters  on  our  way  to  the  happy  abode ; then 
may  we  come  to  your  own  house!’  One  poet  prays 
that  he  may  see  again  his  father  and  mother  after  death 
(Rv.  i,  24,  1) ; and  the  fathers  are  invoked  almost  like 
gods,  oblations  are  offered  to  them,  and  they  are  believed 
to  enjoy,  in  company  with  the  gods,  a life  of  never-end- 
ing felicity  (Rv.  x,  15,  16).  We  find  this  prayer  ad- 
dressed to  Soma  (Rv.  ix,  113,  7) : ‘Where  there  is  eter- 
nal light,  in  the  world  where  the  sun  is  placed,  in  that 
immortal,  imperishable  world  place  me,  O Soma  ! Where 
king  Vaivasvata  reigns,  where  the  secret  place  of  heav- 
en is,  where  these  mighty  waters  are,  there  make  me 
immortal ! Where  life  is  free,  in  the  third  heaven  of 
heavens,  where  the  worlds  are  radiant,  there  make  me 
immortal ! Where  wishes  and  desires  are,  where  the 
bowl  of  the  bright  Soma  is,  where  there  is  food  and  re- 
joicing, there  make  me  immortal ! Where  there  is 
happiness  and  delight,  where  joy  and  pleasure  reside, 
where  the  desires  of  our  desire  are  attained,  there  make 
me  immortal !’  ” 

2.  Chinese. — While  it  is  true  that  Confucius  himself 
did  not  expressly  teach  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  nay, 
that  he  rather  purposely  seems  to  have  avoided  enter- 
ing upon  this  subject  at  all,  taking  it  most  probably 
like  Moses,  as  we  shall  see  below,  simply  for  granted 
(comp.  51  tiller,  Chips,  i,  308),  it  is  nevertheless  implied 
in  the  worship  which  the  Chinese  pay  to  their  ances- 
tors. Another  evidence,  it  seems  to  11s,  is  given  by  the 
absence  of  the  word  death  from  the  writings  of  Confu- 
cius (q.  v.).  When  a person  dies,  the  Chinese  say  “ he 
has  returned  to  his  family.”  “ The  spirits  of  the  good 
were,  according  to  him  (Confucius),  permitted  to  visit 
their  ancient  habitations  on  earth,  or  such  ancestral 
halls  or  places  as  were  appointed  by  their  descendants, 
to  receive  homage  and  confer  benefactions.  Hence  the 
duty  of  performing  rites  in  such  places,  under  the  pen- 
alty, in  the  ease  of  those  who,  while  living,  neglect  such 
duty,  of  their  spiritual  part  being  deprived  after  death 
of  the  supreme  bliss  flowing  from  the  homage  of  de- 


BIMORTALITY  514  IMMORTALITY 


scendants”  (Legge,  Life  and  Teachings  of  Confucius,  I 
Philadelphia,  1867, 12mo).  . | 

3.  Egyptians. — Perhaps  we  may  say  that  the  idea  of 
immortality  assumed  a more  definite  shape  among  the  j 
Egyptians,  for  they  clearly  recognised  not  only  a dwell- 
ing-place of  the  dead,  but  also  a future  judgment. 

“ Osiris,  the  beneficent  god,  judges  the  dead,  and,  ‘ hav- 
ing weighed  their  heart  in  the  scales  of  justice,  he  sends 
the  wicked  to  regions  of  darkness,  while  the  just  are  sent 
to  dwell  with  the  god  of  light.’  The  latter,  we  read  on 
an  inscription,  ‘ found  favor  before  the  great  God;  they 
dwell  in  glory,  where  they  live  a heavenly  life ; the 
bodies  they  have  quitted  will  forever  repose  in  their 
tombs,  while  they  rejoice  in  the  life  of  the  supreme 
God.’  Immortality  was  thus  plainly  taught,  although 
bound  up  with  it  was  the  idea  of  the  preservation  of 
the  body,  to  which  they  attached  great  importance,  as  a 
condition  of  the  soul’s  continued  life;  and  hence  they 
built  vast  tombs,  and  embalmed  their  bodies,  as  if  to 
last  forever.” 

4.  Persians. — In  the  religion  of  the  Persians,  also,  at 
least  since,  if  not  previous  to  the  time  of  Zoroaster,  a 
prominent  part  is  assigned  to  the  existence  of  a future 
world,  with  its  governing  spirits.  “Under  Ormuz  and 
Ahriman  there  are  ranged  regular  hierarchies  of  spirits 
engaged  in  a perpetual  conflict ; and  the  soul  passes  into 
the  kingdom  of  light  or  of  darkness,  over  which  these 
spirits  respectively  preside,  according  as  it  has  lived  on 
the  earth  well  or  ill.  Whoever  has  lived  in  purity,  and 
has  not  suffered  the  dies  (evil  spirits)  to  have  any  power 
over  him,  passes  after  death  into  the  realms  of  light.” 

5.  A merican  Indians. — The  native  tribes  of  the  lower 
part  of  South  America  believe  in  two  great  powers  of 
good  and  evil,  but  likewise  in  a number  of  inferior  dei- 
ties. These  are  supposed  to  have  been  the  creators  and 
ancestors  of  different  families,  and  hence,  when  an  In- 
dian dies,  his  soul  goes  to  live  with  the  deity  who  pre- 
sides over  his  particular  family.  These  deities  have 
each  their  separate  habitations  in  vast  caverns  under 
the  earth,  and  thither  the  departed  repair  to  enjoy  the 
happiness  of  being  eternally  drunk  (compare  Tyler,  Re- 
searches into  the  early  History  of  Mankind,  and  the  De- 
velopment of  Civilization,  Loud.  1868).  Another  Amer- 
ican tribe  of  Indians,  the  Mandans,  have  with  their  be- 
lief in  a future  state  connected  this  tradition  of  their 
origin : “ The  whole  nation  resided  in  one  large  village 
under  ground  near  a subterraneous  lake.  A grape-vine 
extended  its  roots  down  to  their  habitation,  and  gave 
them  a view  of  the  light.  Some  of  the  most  adventu- 
rous climbed  up  the  vine,  and  were  delighted  with  the 
sight  of  the  earth,  which  they  found  covered  with  buf- 
falo, and  rich  with  every  kind  of  fruit.  Returning  with 
the  grapes  they  had  gathered,  their  countrymen  were 
so  pleased  with  the  taste  of  them  that  the  whole  nation 
resolved  to  leave  their  dull  residence  for  the  charms  of 
the  upper  region.  Men,  women,  and  children  ascended 
by  means  of  the  vine;  but  when  about  half  the  nation 
had  reached  the  surface  of  the  earth,  a corpulent  woman 
who  was  clambering  up  the  vine  broke  it  with  her 
weight,  and  closed  upon  herself  and  the  rest  of  the  na- 
tion the  light  of  the  sun.  Those  who  were  left  on 
earth  expect,  when  they  die,  to  return  to  the  original 
seats  of  their  forefathers,  the  good  reaching  the  ancient 
village  by  means  of  the  lake,  which  the  burden  of  the 
sins  of  the  wicked  will  not  enable  them  to  cross”  (Ty- 
ler). The  Choctaw  tribe’s  belief  in  a future  state  is 
of  pi  ally  curious.  “ They  hold  that  the  spirit  lives  after 
death,  and  that  it  has  a great  distance  to  travel  towards 
the  west ; that  it  has  to  cross  a dreadful,  deep,  and  rapid 
stream,  over  which,  from  hill  to  hill,  there  lies  a long, 
slippery  pine  log,  with  the  bark  peeled  off.  Over  this 
the  dead  have  to  pass  before  they  reach  the  delightful 
hunting-grounds.  The  good  walk  on  safely,  though 
six  people  from  the  other  side  throw  stones  at  them ; 
but  the  wicked,  trying  to  dodge  the  stones,  slip  off  the 
log,  and  fall  thousands  of  feet  into  the  water  which  is 
dashing  over  the  rocks”  (see  Brinton,  p,  233  sq.). 


6.  Polynesians.  — The  natives  of  Polynesia  “imagine 
that  the  sky  descends  at  the  horizon  and  incloses  the 
earth.  Hence  they  call  foreigners  ‘palangi’  or  ‘heav- 
en-bursters,’ as  having  broken  in  from  another  world 
outside.  According  to  their  views,  we  live  upon  the 
ground  floor  of  a great  house,  with  upper  stories  rising 
one  over  another  above  iis,  and  cellars  down  below. 
There  are  holes  in  the  ceiling  to  let  the  rain  through, 
and  as  men  are  supposed  to  visit  the  dwellers  above,  the 
dwellers  from  below  are  believed  to  come  sometimes  up 
to  the  surface,  and  likewise  to  receive  visits  from  men 
in  return.” 

7.  New  Hollanders.  — The  native  tribes  of  Australia 
believe  that  all  who  are  good  men,  and  have  been  prop- 
erly buried,  enter  heaven  after  death.  “ Heaven,  which 
is  the  abede  of  the  two  good  divinities,  is  represented  as 
a delightful  place,  where  there  is  abundance  of  game 
and  food,  never  any  excess  of  heat  or  cold,  rain  or 
drought,  no  malign  spirits,  no  sickness  or  death,  but 
plenty  of  rioting,  singing,  and  dancing  for  evermore. 
They  also  believe  in  an  evil  spirit  who  dwells  in  the 
nethermost  regions,  and,  strange  to  say,  they  represent 
him  with  horns  and  a tail,  though  one  would  think  that, 
prior  to  the  introduction  of  cattle  into  New  Holland,  the 
natives  could  not  have  been  aware  of  the  existence  of 
homed  beasts”  (Oldfield). 

8.  Greenlanders.  — “The  Greenlander  believes  that 
when  a man  dies  his  soul  travels  to  Tonigarsuk,  the  land 
where  reigns  perpetual  summer,  all  sunshine,  and  no 
night;  where  there  is  good  water,  and  birds,  fish,  seals, 
and  reindeer  without  end,  that  are  to  be  caught  without 
trouble,  or  are  found  cooking  alive  in  a huge  kettle. 
But  the  journey  to  this  land  is  difficult ; the  souls  have 
to  slide  five  days  or  more  down  a precipice,  all  stained 
with  the  blood  of  those  who  have  gone  down  before. 
And  it  is  especially  grievous  for  the  poor  souls  when  the 
journey  must  be  made  in  winter  or  in  tempest,  for  then 
a soul  may  come  to  harm,  or  suffer  the  other  death,  as 
they  call  it,  when  it  perishes  utterly,  and  nothing  is 
left.  The  bridge  Es-Sirat,  which  stretches  over  the 
midst  of  the  Moslem  hill,  finer  than  a hair,  and  sharper 
than  the  edge  of  a sword,  conveys  a similar  conception.” 
Tyler,  on  whose  works  we  mainly  rely  for  the  informa- 
tion here  conveyed  on  rude  nations,  traces  the  idea  of  a 
bridge  in  Java,  in  North  America,  in  South  America, 
and  he  also  shows  how  in  Polynesia  the  bridge  is  re- 
placed by  canoes,  in  which  the  dead  were  to  pass  the 
great  gidf.  It  is  noteworthy  that  the  Jews,  also,  when 
they  first  established  a firm  belief  in  immortality,  im- 
agined a bridge  of  hell,  which  all  unbelievers  were  to 
pass. 

II.  Ideas  of  more  cultivated  Nations. — Wherever  pa- 
gan thought  and  pagan  morality  reach  the  highest  per- 
fection, we  find  their  ideas  of  the  immortality  of  the 
soul  gradually  approaching  the  Christian  views.  The 
first  trace  of  a belief  in  a future  existence  we  find  in 
Homer’s  Iliad  (xxiii,  103  sq.),  where  he  represents  that 
Achilles  first  became  convinced  that  souls  and  shadowy 
forms  have  a real  existence  in  the  kingdom  of  the 
shades  (Hades)  by  the  appearance  to  him  of  the  dead 
Patroclus  in  a dream.  These  visions  were  often  regard- 
ed as  divine  by  the  Greeks  (comp.  II.  i,  63,  and  the  case 
of  the  rich  man  and  Lazarus  in  Luke  xri,  27).  Com- 
pare also  the  article  Hades.  But,  while  in  the  early 
Greek  paganism  the  idea  of  the  future  is  everywhere 
melancholic,  Hades,  or  the  realms  of  the  dead,  being  to 
their  imagination  the  emblem  of  gloom,  as  may  be  seen 
from  the  following:  “Achilles,  the  ideal  hero,  declares 
that  he  would  rather  till  the  ground  than  live  in  pale 
Elysium,”  we  find  that,  with  the  progress  of  Hellenic 
thought,  a higher  idqa  of  the  future  is  found  to  charac- 
tes/ze  both  the  poetry  and  philosophy  of  Greece,  till,  in 
the  Platonic  Socrates,  the  conception  of  immortality 
shines  forth  with  a clearness  and  precision  truly  impres- 
sive. “ For  we  must  remember,  O men,”  said  Socrates, 
in  his  last  speech,  before  he  drained  the  poison  cup, 
“ that  it  depends  upon  the  immortality  of  the  soul 


IMMORTALITY 


515 


DIMORTALITY 


whether  we  have  to  live  to  it  and  to  care  for  it  or  not. 
For  the  danger  seems  fearfully  great  of  not  caring  for 
it.  [Compare  Locke’s  statement:  If  the  best  that  can 
happen  to  the  unbeliever  be  that  he  be  right,  and  the 
worst  that  can  happen  to  the  believer  be  that  he  be 
wrong,  who  in  his  madness  would  dare  to  run  the  ven- 
ture ?]  Yea,  were  death  to  be  the  end  of  all,  it  would  be 
truly  a fortunate  thing  for  the  wicked  to  get  rid  of  their 
body,  and,  at  the  same  time,  of  their  wickedness.  But 
now,  since  the  soul  shows  itself  to  us  immortal,  there 
can  be  for  it  no  refuge  from  evil,  and  no  other  salvation 
than  to  become  as  good  and  intelligible  as  possible.” 
More  clearly  are  his  views  set  forth  in  the  Apology  and 
the  Pheedo,  in  language  at  once  rich  in  faith  and  in 
beauty.  “ The  soul,  the  immaterial  part,  being  of  a na- 
ture so  superior  to  the  body,  can  it,”  he  asks  in  the 
Pheedo,  “ as  soon  as  it  is  separated  from  the  body,  be 
dispersed  into  nothing,  and  perish  ? Oh,  far  otherwise. 
Rather  will  this  be  the  result.  If  it  take  its  departure 
in  a state  of  pnrity,  not  carrying  with  it  any  clinging 
impurities  of  the  body,  impurities  which  during  life  it 
never  willingly  shared  in,  but  always  avoided,  gather- 
ing itself  into  itself,  and  making  the  separation  from 
the  body  its  aim  and  study — that  is,  devoting  itself  to 
true  philosophy,  and  studying  how  to  die  calmly;  for 
this  is  true  philosophy,  is  it  not? — well,  then,  so  pre- 
pared, the  soul  departs  into  that  invisible  region  which 
is  of  its  own  nature,  the  region  of  the  divine,  the  im- 
mortal, the  -wise,  and  then  its  lot  is  to  be  happy  in  a 
state  in  which  it  is  freed  from  fears  and  wild  desires, 
and  the  other  evils  of  humanity,  and  spends  the  rest  of 
its  existence  with  the  gods.”  This  view,  or  better  doc- 
trine of  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  held  by  Socrates 
and  his  disciple  Plato,  implied  a double  immortality, 
the  past  eternity  as  well  as  that  to  come.  They  cer- 
tainly offer  a very  striking  contrast  to  the  popular  su- 
perstitions and  philosophy  of  their  day,  which  in  many 
respects  recall  the  views  held  by  the  Hindus.  The  peo- 
ple, especially  those  who  held  the  most  enlarged  views 
up  to  this  time,  had  “entertained  wliart  might  be  term- 
ed a doctrine  of  semi-immortality.  They  looked  for  a 
continuance  of  the  soul  in  an  endless  futurity,  but  gave 
themselves  no  concern  about  the  eternity  which  is  past. 
But  Plato  considered  the  sold  as  having  already  eter- 
nally existed,  the  present  life  being  only  a moment  in 
onr  career;  he  looked  fonvard  with  an  nndonbting  faith 
to  the  changes  through  which  we  must  hereafter  go” 
(Draper,  InteU.  Development  of  Europe,  p.  118;  compare 
below,  Philosophical  Argument). 

III.  Ideas  of  the  Jeivish  Xation. — 1.  It  has  frequently 
been  asserted  that  the  doctrine  of  the  immortality  of 
the  soul  is  not  taught  in  the  O.  T.  The  Socinians  in 
the  16th  and  17th  centimes  took  this  ground.  Some 
have  gone  so  far  as  to  construe  the  supposed  silence  of 
the  O.-T.  Scriptures  on  this  subject  into  a formal  denial 
of  the  possibility  of  a future  life,  and  have  furthermore 
fortified  their  positions  by  selecting  some  passages  of 
the  Old  Testament  that  are  rather  obscure,  e.  g.  Eccles. 
iii,  19  sq. ; Isa.  xxxviii,  18;  Psa.vi,6;  xxx,  10;  Ixxxviii, 
11;  cxv,  17;  Jobvii,  7-10;  x,  20-22;  xiv,  7-12;  xv.  22. 
In  the  most  odious  manner  were  these  objections  raised 
by  the  “AVolfenbiittel  Fragments”  (see  the  fourth  frag- 
ment by  Lessing,  Beitrdge  z.  Gesch.  v.  Lit.  a.  d.  Wol fen- 
butt  dsehen  Bibliothek , iv,  484  sq.).  Bishop  Warburton, 
on  the  other  hand,  derived  one  of  his  main  proofs  of 
the  divine  mission  of  Moses  from  this  supposed  silence 
on  the  subject  of  immortality.  "Moses,”  he  argues, 
“being  sustained  in  his  legislation  and  government  by 
immediate  divine  authority,  had  not  the  same  necessity 
that  other  teachers  have  for  a recourse  to  threatenings 
and  punishments  drawn  from  the  future  world,  in  order 
to  enforce  obedience.”  In  a similar  strain  argues  pro- 
fessor Ernst  Stahelin  in  an  article  on  the  immortality 
of  the  soul  (in  the  Foundations  of  our  Faith , Lorifl.  and 
X.  York,  18G6, 12mo,  p.  221  sq.) : “Moses  and  Confucius 
did  not  expressly  teach  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  nay, 
they  seemed  purposely  to  avoid  entering  upon  the  sub- 


ject; they  simply  took  it  for  granted.  Thus  Moses 
spoke  of  the  tree  of  life  in  Paradise,  of  which  if  the  man 
took  he  should  live  forever,  and  called  God  the  God  of 
Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  thus  implying  their  contin- 
ued existence,  since  God  could  not  be  a God  of  the  dead, 
but  only  of  the  living;  and  Confucius,  while  in  some  re- 
spects avoiding  all  mention  of  future  things,  neverthe- 
less enjoined  honors  to  be  paid  to  departed  spirits  (thus 
assuming  their  life  after  death)  as  one  of  the  chief  du- 
ties of  a religious  man.”  Another  evidence  of  the  be- 
lief of  the  Jews  at  the  time  of  Moses  and  in  subsequent 
periods  in  the  immortality  of  the  sold,  as  a doctrine 
self-evident,  and  by  them  universally  acknowledged  and 
received,  is  the  fact  that  the  Israelites  and  their  ances- 
tors resided  among  the  Egyptians,  a people  who,  as  we 
have  seen  above,  had  cherished  this  faith  from  the  re- 
motest ages  (comp.  Herodotus,  ii,  123,  who  asserts  that 
they  were  the  first  who  entertained  such  an  idea).  It 
is  further  proved  that  the  Jews  believed  in  immortality, 
(a)  from  the  laws  of  Moses  against  Necromancy  (q.  v.), 
or  the  invocation  of  the  dead,  which  was  very  generally 
practised  by  the  Canaanites  (Deut.  xviii,  9-12),  and 
which,  notwithstanding  these  laws,  is  found  to  have 
been  prevalent  among  the  Jews  even  at  the  time  of 
king  Saul  (1  Sam.  xxviii),  and  later  (Psa.  evi,  28,  and 
the  prophets)  ; (]>)  from  the  name  which  the  Jews  gave 
to  the  kingdom  of  the  dead,  biX'lj  (acije),  which  so  fre- 
quently occurs  in  Moses  as  well  as  subsequent  writings 
of  the  O.  T.  That  Moses  did  not  in  his  laws  hold  up 
the  punishments  of  the  future  world  to  the  terror  of 
transgressors  is  a circumstance  which  redounds  to  his 
praise,  and  cannot  be  alleged  against  him  as  a matter 
of  reproach,  since  to  other  legislators  the  charge  has 
been  laid  that  they  were  either  deluded  or  impostors 
for  pursuing  the  very  opposite  course.  Another  reason 
why  Moses  did  not  touch  the  question  of  the  immortal- 
ity of  the  soul  is  that  he  did  not  intend  to  give  a sys- 
tem of  theology  in  his  laws.  But  so  much  is  clear  from 
certain  passages  in  his  writings,  that  he  was  by  no 
means  ignorant  of  this  doctrine.  Compare  Michaelis, 
Argument  a pro  Immortalitate  Animi  e Mose  Collect  a,  in 
the  Syntagm.  Comment,  i (Gottingen,  1759);  Liiderwald, 
Enters,  ron  d.  Kenntniss  eines  kiinftigen  Lebens  i.  A . Test. 
(Helmstiidt,  1781);  Semler,  Beanhvortung  d.  Fragen  d. 
Wolfenbiittelschen  Ungenannten ; Seiler,  Observ.  ad  psy- 
chologiam  sacraui  (Erlang.  1779). 

“ The  following  texts  from  the  writings  of  Moses  may 
be  regarded  as  indications  of  the  doctrine  of  immortal- 
ity, viz.  Gen.  v,  22, 24,  where  it  is  said  respecting  Enoch, 
that  because  he  lived  a pious  life  God  took  him , so  that 
he  was  no  more  among  men.  This  was  designed  to  be 
the  reward  and  consequence  of  his  pious  life,  and  it 
points  to  an  invisible  life  with  God,  to  which  he  attain- 
ed without  previously  suffering  death.  Gen.  xxxvii, 
35,  Jacob  says,  ‘I  will  go  down  to  “the  grave"  (biX'i*) 
unto  my  son.’  We  have  here  distinctly  exhibited  the 
idea  of  a place  where  the  dead  dwell  connected  together 
in  a society.  In  conformity  with  this  idea  we  must  ex- 
plain the  phrase  to  go  to  his  fathers  (Gen.  xv,  15),  or  to 
be  gathered  to  his  people  [more  literally,  to  enter  into 
their  habitation  or  abode ] (Gen.  xxv,  8;  xxxv,  29; 
Numb,  xx,  24,  etc.).  In  the  same  way  many  of  the  In- 
dian savages  (as  we  have  already  seen)  express  their 
expectation  of  an  immortality  beyond  the  grave.  Paul 
argues  from  the  text  Gen.  xlvii,  9,  and  similar  passages 
where  Jacob  calls  his  life  a journey,'  that  the  patriarchs 
expected  a life  after  death  (Heb.  xi,  13-16 ; yets  he  says, 
very  truly,  irbppioQtv  tdovTtg  rag  hirayytXiac).  In 
Matt.  xxii,23,  Christ  refers,  in  arguing  against  the  Sad- 
ducees,  to  Exod.  iii,  6,  where  Jehovah  calls  himself  the 
God  of  Isaac  and  Jacob  (i.  e.  their  protector  and  the  ob- 
ject of  their  worship),  long  after  their  death.  It  could 
not  be  that  their  ashes  and  their  dust  should  worship 
God;  hence  he  concludes  that  they  themselves  could 
not  have  ceased  to  exist,  but  that,  as  to  their  souls,  they 
still  lived  (comp.  Heb.  xi,  13-17).  This  passage  was  in- 


516 


BIMORTALITY 


BIMORTALITY 


terpretecl  in  the  same  way  by  the  Jews  after  Christ 
(Wetstein,  ad  loc.).  In  the  subsequent  books  of  the  <). 
T.  the  texts  of  this  nature  are  far  more  numerous.  Still 
more  definite  descriptions  are  given  of  and  the 

condition  of  the  departed  there ; e.  g.  Isa.  x'iv,  9 sq. ; 
also  in  the  Psalms  and  in  Job.  Even  in  these  texts, 
however,  the  doctrine  of  the  reward  of  the  righteous 
and  the  punishment  of  the  wicked  in  the  kingdom  of 
the  dead  is  not  so  clearly  developed  as  it  is  in  the  N.  T. ; 
this  is  true  even  of  the  book  ol  Job.  All  that  we  find 
here  with  respect  to  this  point  is  only  obscure  intima- 
tion, so  that  the  Pauline  TToppuititv  iSovreg  is  applica- 
ble, in  relation  to  this  doctrine,  to  the  other  books  of 
the  O.  T.  as  well  as  to  those  of  Moses.  In  the  Psalms 
there  are  some  plain  allusions  to  the  expectation  of  re-  I 
ward  and  punishment  after  death,  particularly  Psa.  xvii,  I 
15;  xlix,  15,  16;  lxxiii,  24.  There  are  some  passages 
in  the  prophets  where  a revivification  of  the  dead  is 
spoken  of,  as  Isa.  xxvi,  19;  Dan.  xii,  2;  Ezek.  xxvii ; 
but,  although  these  do  not  teach  a literal  resurrection 
of  the  dead,  but  rather  refer  to  the  restoration  of  the 
nation  and  land,  still  these  and  all  such  figurative  rep- 
resentations presuppose  the  proper  idea  that  an  invis- 
ible part  of  man  survives  the  body,  and  will  be  here- 
after united  to  it.  Very  clear  is  also  the  passage  Ec- 
cles.  xii,  7,  * The  body  must  return  to  the  earth  from 
whence  it  was  taken,  but  the  spirit  to  God  who  gave  it,’ 
evidently  alluding  to  Gen.  iii,  19.  See  Siieol. 

“ From  all  this  we  draw  the  conclusion  that  the  doe- 
trine  of  the  immortality  of  the  soul  was  not  unknown 
to  the  Jews  before  the  Babylonian  exile.  It  appears 
also  from  the  fact  that  a general  expectation  existed  of 
rewards  and  punishments  in  the  future  world,  although 
in  comparison  with  what  was  afterwards  taught  on  this 
point  there  was  at  that  time  very  little  definitely  known 
respecting  it,  and  the  doctrine,  therefore,  stood  by  no 
means  in  that  near  relation  to  religion  and  morality  into 
which  it  was  rfterwards  brought,  as  we  find  it  often  in 
other  wholly  uncultivated  nations.  Hence  this  doctrine 
is  not  so  often  used  by  the  prophets  as  a motive  to  right- 
eousness, or  to  deter  men  from  evil,  or  to  console  them 
in  the  midst  of  suffering.  But  on  this  very  account  the 
piety  of  these  ancient  saints  deserves  the  more  regard 
and  admiration.  It  was  in  a high  degree  unpretending 
and  disinterested.  Although  the  prospect  of  what  lies 
beyond  the  grave  was,  as  Paul  said, the  promised  blessing 
which  they  saw  only  from  afar,  they  yet  had  pious  dis- 
positions, and  trusted  God.  They  held  merely  to  the 
general  promise  that  God  their  Father  would  cause  it 
to  be  well  with  them  even  after  death  (Psa.  lxxiii,  26, 
26,  ‘ When  my  strength  and  my  heart  faileth,  God  will 
be  the  strength  of  my  heart,  and  my  portion  forever’). 
But  it  was  not  until  after  the  Babylonian  captivity  that 
the  ideas  of  the  Jews  on  this  subject  appear  to  have  be- 
come enlarged,  and  that  this  doctrine  was  brought  by 
the  prophets,  under  the  divine  guidance,  into  a more 
immediate  connection  with  religion.  This  result  be- 
comes very  apparent  after,  the  reign  of  the  Grecian 
kings  over  Syria  and  Egypt,  and  their  persecutions  of 
the  Jews.  The  prophets  and  teachers  living  at  that 
time  (of  whose  writings,  however,  nothing  has  come 
down  to  us)  must  therefore  have  given  to  their  nation, 
time  after  time,  more  instruction  upon  this  subject,  and 
must  have  explained  and  unfolded  the  allusions  to  it  in 
the  earlier  prophets.  Thus  we  find  that  after  this  time, 
more  frequently  than  before,  the  Jews  sought  and  found 
in  this  doctrine  of  immortality  and  of  future  retribution, 
consolation,  and  encouragement  under  their  trials,  and 
a motive  to  piety.  Such  discourses  were  therefore  fre- 
quently put  in  the  mouths  of  the  martyrs  in  the  second 
book  of  Maccabees,  e.  g.  vi,  26 ; vii,  9 sq. ; comp,  xii,  IS- 
IS ; see  also  the  Book  of  Wisdom,  ii,  1 sq. ; and  especial- 
ly iii,  1 sq.,  and  the  other  apocryphal  books  of  the  O.  T. 
At  the  time  of  Christ,  and  afterwards,  this  doctrine  was 
universally  received  and  taught  by  the  Pharisees,  and 
was,  indeed,  the  prevailing  belief  among  the  Jews,  as  is 
well  knowu  from  the  testimony  of  the  N.  T.,  of  Jose- 


phus, and  also  of  Philo.  Tacitus  also  refers  to  it  in 
his  history,  ‘Animas  pradio  aut  supplieiis  peremptorum 
affernas  putant.’  Consult  an  essay  comparing  the  ideas 
of  the  apocryphal  books  of  the  O.  T.  on  the  subjects 
of  immortality,  resurrection,  judgment,  and  retribution, 
with  those  of  the  N.  T.,  written  by  Frisch,  in  Eichhorn’s 
Bibliotliek  der  Biblisclien  Liter atur,  b.  iv ; Ziegler,  Theol. 
Abhandl.  pt.  ii,  No.  4;  Flugge,  Geschichte  des  Glanbens 
an  Unsterblichkeit , etc.,  pt.  i.  The  Saddueees,  boasting 
of  a great  attachment  to  the  O.  T.,  and  especially  to  the 
books  of  Moses,  were  the  only  Jews  who  denied  this 
doctrine,  as  well  as  the  existence  of  the  soul  as  distinct 
from  the  body”  (Knapp,  Theology,  § cxlix).  (See  Jo- 
hannsen,  1 'et.  lleb.  notiones  de  rebus  post  mortem,  Hafn. 
1626.)  See  Resurrection. 

2.  Among  the  modern  Jews,  the  late  celebrated  Jew- 
ish savant  and  successor  to  Renan  at  the  Sorbonne,  pro- 
lessor  Munk,  regarded  as  one  of  the  strongest  evidences 
which  the  O.  T.  affords  for  a doctrine  of  the  immortality 
of  the  sold  the  expression  “He  was  gathered  to  his 
people,”  so  frequent  in  the  -writings  of  the  O.  T.  The 
Rev.  D.  W.  Marks,  in  a series  of  Hermans  (Lond.  5611  — 
1851),  p.  103  sq.,  says  of  it : “ It  has  generally  been  sup- 
posed that  ‘ to  be  gathered  to  one’s  people’  is  an  ordinary 
term  which  the  sacred  historian  employs  in  order  to 
convey  the  idea  that  the  person  to  whom  it  is  applied 
lies  buried  in  the  place  where  the  remains  of  the  same 
family  are  deposited.  ' But  whoever  attentively  consid- 
ers all  the  passages  of  the  Bible  where  this  expression 
occurs  will  find,  says  Dr.  Munk,  that  being  ‘gathered 
to  one’s  ancestors’  is  expressly  distinguished  from  the 
rite  of  sepulture.  Abraham  is  ‘gathered  unto  his  peo- 
ple,’ but  he  is  buried  in  the  cave  which  he  bought  near 
Hebron,  and  where  Sarah  alone  is  interred.  This  is  the 
first  instance  where  the  passage  ‘ to  be  gathered  to  one’s 
people’  is  to  be  met  with ; and  that  it  cannot  mean  that 
Abraham’s  bones  reposed  in  the  same  cave  with  those 
of  his  fathers  is  very  clear,  since  the  ancestors  of  the 
patriarch  vrere  buried  in  ChalcUea,  and  not  in  Canaan. 
The  death  of  Jacob  is  related  in  the  following  -words : 
‘And  when  Jacob  had  finished  charging  his  sons,  he 
gathered  up  his  feet  upon  the  bed,  and  he  expired,  and 
was  gathered  unto  his  people’  (Gen.  xlix,  33).  It  is 
equally  certain  that  the  phrase  ‘ he  was  gathered  unto 
his  people’  cannot  refer  to  the  burial  of  the  patriarch, 
because  we  learn  from  the  next  chapter  that  he  was 
embalmed,  and  that  the  Egyptians  mourned  for  him 
seventy  days;  and  it  is  only  after  these  three  score  and 
ten  days  of  mourning  are  ended  that  Joseph  transports 
the  remains  of  his  father  to  Canaan,  and  inters  them  in 
the  cave  of  Maehpelah,  where  the  ashes  of  Abraham  and 
Isaac  repose.  When  the  inspired  penman  alludes  to 
the  actual  burial  of  Jacob  he  uses  very  different  terms. 
He  makes  no  mention  then  of  the  patriarch  ‘being 
gathered  to  his  people,’  but  he  simply  employs  the  verb 
"Cp,  ‘to  bury:’  ‘And  Joseph  went  up  to  bury  his  fa- 
ther.’ The  very  words  addressed  by  Jacob  on  his  death- 
bed to  his  sons,  ‘I  am  about  to  be  gathered  unto  my 
people;  bury  me  with  my  fathers,’  afford  us  sufficient 
evidence  that  the  speaker,  as  well  as  the  persons  ad- 
dressed, understood  the  expression  ‘being  gathered  to 
one’s  people’  in  a sense  totally  different  from  that  of  be- 
ing lodged  within  a tomb.  But  a stronger  instance  still 
may  be  advanced.  The  Israelites  arrive  at  Mount  Hor, 
near  the  borders  of  Edom,  and  immediately  is  issued 
the  divine  command,  ‘Aaron  shall  be  gathered  unto  his 
people,  for  he  shall  not  come  into  the  land  which  I have 
given  to  the  children  of  Israel.  . . . Strip  Aaron  of  his 
garments,  and  clothe  in  them  Eleazar  his  son.  And 
Aaron  shall  be  gathered,  and  there  he  shall  die.’  No 
member  of  his  family  lay  buried  on  Mount  Hor;  and 
still  Aaron  is  said  to  have  been  there  ‘gathered  to  his 
people.’  Again,  Moses  is  charged  to  chastise  severely 
the  Midianites  for  having  seduced  the  Israelites  to  fol- 
low the  abominable  practices  of  ^llS  ^"2  (‘  Baal  Peor’) ; 
and,  this  act  accomplished,  the  legislator  is  told  ‘ that 
he  will  be  gathered  unto  his  people.’  This  passage  cer- 


IMMORTALITY  5j 

tainly  cannot  mean  that  Moses  was  to  be  gathered  in 
the  grave  with  any  of  his  people.  The  Hebrew  krw- 
giver  died  on  Mount  Abarim ; and  the  Scripture  testi- 
fies ; that  no  one  ever  knew  of  the  place  of  his  sepul- 
chre;’ and  still  the  term  to  be  gathered  to  his  people  is 
there  likewise  employed.  Sufficient  instances  have 
now  been  cited  to  prove  that  bx  TOXtl  is  to  be 

understood  in  a different  sense  from  the  rite  of  sepul- 
ture, and  that  the  Hebrews  in  the  times  of  Moses  did 
entertain  the  belief  in  another  state  of  existence,  where 
spirit  joined  spirit  after  the  death  of  the  body. 

“ But,  although  the  position  here  assumed  seems  very 
tenable,  it  is  nevertheless  true  that  the  Israelites  cer- 
tainly did  not  have  a very  clear  conception  of  the  future 
existence  of  the  sold,  and  ‘ that  life  and  immortality’ 
were  not  brought  to  light  very  distinctly  before  Christ 
came,  fur  whom  the  office  was  reserved  of  making  clear- 
ly known  many  high  matters  before  but  obscurely  in- 
dicated” ( Journal  of  Sacred  Literature , viii,  179). 

IV.  Xew-Testament  Views. — When  Jesus  Christ  ap- 
peared in  this  world,  the  Epicurean  philosophy  (q.  v.), 
the  fables  of  poets  of  a lower  world,  and  the  corruption 
which  was  prevalent  among  the  nations  had  fidly  de- 
stroyed the  hope,  to  say  nothing  of  a belief,  in  future 
existence.  It  was  left  for  him  to  declare  the  existence 
of  the  soul  after  death,  even  though  the  “ earthly  house 
of  this  tabernacle  were  dissolved”  (2  Cor.  v,  1),  with 
great  certainty  and  very  explicitly,  not  only  by  an  al- 
lusion to  the  joys  that  await  us  in  the  future  world, 
and  to  the  dangers  of  retribution  and  divine  justice 
(Matt,  x,  28),  but  also  in  refutation  of  the  doctrines  of 
the  unbelieving  Saddueees  (Matt,  xxii,  23  sq. ; Mark 
xii,  18  sq. ; Luke  xx,  28  sq.).  Jesus  Christ,  said  Paul, 
“hath  abolished  death,  and  hath  brought  life  and  im- 
mortality to  light”  (2  Tim.  i,  10),  and  “will  render  to 
every  man  according  to  his  deeds.  To  them  who  by 
patient  continuance  in  well  doing  seek  for  glory,  and 
honor,  and  immortality,  eternal  life”  {capSapoiav)  (Rom. 
ii,  6 sq.).  The  original  for  eternal  life  here  used  (dtp- 
Sapoia)  denotes  nothing  else  than  the  immortality  of 
the  soul,  or  a continuation  of  the  substantial  being,  of 
man’s  person,  of  the  ego,  after  death,  by  the  destruction 
of  the  body  (eomp.  Matt,  x,  28 ; Luke  xii,  4).  See  the 
article  Eternal  Life;  and  on  the  origin  of  the  soul, 
and  its  pre-existence  to  the  body,  the  article  Soul. 

It  is  evident  from  the  passages  cited  that  Christ  and 
his  apostles  did  more  to  illustrate  and  confirm  the  belief 
in  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  as  cherished  at  the  pres- 
ent day,  than  had  been  done  by  any  nation,  even  the 
Jews  included.  “He  first  gave  to  it  that  high  practical 
interest  which  it  now  possesses;”  and  it  is  owing  to 
Christianity  that  the  doctrine  of  the  soul’s  immortality 
has  become  a common  and  well-recognised  truth — no 
mere  result  of  speculation,  as  are  those  of  the  heathen 
and  Jewish  philosophers,  nor  a product  of  priestly  in- 
vention— but  a light  to  the  reason,  and  a guide  to  the 
conscience  and  conduct.  “ The  aspirations  of  philoso- 
phy, and  the  materialistic  conceptions  of  popular  my- 
thology, are  found  in  the  Gospel  transmuted  into  a liv- 
ing, spiritual,  and  divine  fact,  and  an  authoritative 
infiuenee,  not  only  touching  the  present  life,  but  gov- 
erning and  directing  it.” 

V.  Christian  Views.  — In  the  early  Christian  Church 
the  views  on  the  immortality  of  the  soul  were  very  va- 
ried. There  were  none  that  actually  denied,  far  from 
it,  nor  even  any  that  doubted  its  possibility.  “But 
some  of  them,  e.  g.  Justin,  Tatian,  and  Tlieophilus,  on 
various  grounds,  supposed  that  the  soul,  though  mortal 
in  itself,  or  at  least  indifferent  in  relation  to  mortality 
or  immortality,  either  acquires  immortality  as  a prom- 
ised reward,  by  its  union  with  the  spirit  and  the  right 
use  of  its  liberty,  or,  in  the  opposite  case,  perishes  with 
the  body.  They  were  led  to  this  view  partly  because 
they  laid  so  much  stress  on  freedom,  and  because  they 
thought  that  likeness  to  God  was  to  be  obtained  only 
by  this  freedom ; and  partly,  too,  because  they  supposed 
(according  to  the  trichotomistic  division  of  human  na- 


V IMMORTALITY 

ture)  that  the  soul  (\pi>x>i)  receives  the  seeds  of  immor- 
tal life  only  by  the  union  with  the  spirit  (grvtvga),  as 
the  higher  and  free  life  of  reason.”  This  view  was  also 
afterwards  introduced  into  the  Greek  Church  by  Nicho- 
las of  Mcthone  (compare  Ilageubach,  Doctrines,  ii,  1G). 
“And,  lastly,  other  philosophical  hypotheses  concerning 
the  nature  of  the  soul  doubtless  had  an  influence.  On 
the  contrary,  Tertullian  and  Origen,  whose  views  differ- 
ed on  other  subjects,  agreed  on  this  one  point,  that  they, 
in  accordance  with  their  peculiar  notions  concerning  the 
nature  of  the  soul,  looked  upon  its  immortality  as  essen- 
tial to  it”  (Ilageubach,  i,  158).  “ The  schoolmen  of  the 
Middle  Ages  in  the  Western  Church  considered  the  im- 
mortality of  the  soul  a theological  truth ; but  their  chief 
leaders,  Thomas  Aquinas  and  Duns  Scotus,  were  at  is- 
sue on  the  question  whether  reason  furnishes  satisfac- 
tory proof  of  that  doctrine.  ...  As  Anselm  of  Canter- 
bury had  inferred  the  existence  of  God  himself  from  the 
idea  of  God,  so  Thomas  Aquinas  proved  the  immortality 
of  the  soul,  in  a similar  manner,  by  an  ontological  argu- 
ment : ‘ Intellects  appreliendit  esse  absolute  et  secun- 
dum omne  tempus.  Unde  oraue  liabens  intelleetum 
naturaliter  desiderat  esse  semper,  naturale  antem  desi- 
derium  non  potest  est  inane.  Omnis  igitnr  intellectua- 
lis  substantia  est  incorruptibilis’  (compare  Engelhardt, 
Dogmengesch.  ii,  123  sq.).  On  the  other  hand,  Scotus, 
whose  views  were  more  nearly  allied  to  those  of  the 
Nominalists,  maintained:  ‘ Non  posse  demonstrari,  quod 
anima  sit  immortalis’  {Comm,  in  M.  Sentent.  bk.  ii,  (list. 
17,  qu.  i ; comp.  bk.  iv,  (list.  43,  qu.  2).  Bonaventura, 
on  the  contrary,  asserted:  ‘Animam  esse  immortalem, 
auctoritate  ostenditur  et  ratione’  (De  A at.  Deor.  ii,  55). 
Concerning  the  further  attempts  of  Moneta  of  Cremona 
(13th  century),  William  of  Auvergne  (bishop  of  Paris 
from  1228  to  1249),  and  Eaimund  Martini  ( Pugio  Fidei 
ailv.Maur.  p.  i,  eh.iv),  to  prove  the  immortality  of  the 
soul,  compare  Miinscher,  Dogmengeschichte,  ed.  by  Von 
Colin,  p.  92  sq.”  (Hagenbach).  On  the  views  since  the 
Reformation,  see  Soul,  Immortality  of. 

VI.  Philosophical  Argument.— There  are  many  writ- 
ers, both  in  philosophy  and  theology,  who  deny  that 
the  immortality  of  the  soul  can  be  proved  apart  from 
revelation.  E.  Stalielin  ( Foundations  of  our  Faith , p. 
232)  says:  “We  might  take  up  a line  of  argument  used 
by  philosophy  both  in  ancient  and  modern  times — from 
Socrates  down  to  Fichte — to  prove  the  immortality  of 
the  inner  being;  an  argument  derived  from  the  asser- 
tion that  the  soul,  being  a unity,  is,  as  such,  incapable 
of  decay,  it  being  only  in  the  ease  of  the  complex  that 
a falling  to  pieces,  or  a dissolution,  is  conceivable.” 
“ But,”  he  continues,  “ the  abstruse  nature  of  this  meth- 
od leads  us  to  renounce  a line  of  argument  from  which, 
we  freely  confess,  we  expect  little  profitable  result.  For, 
after  all,  what  absolute  proof  have  we  of  this  unity  of 
the  soul?  Can  we  subject  it  to  the  microscope  or  the 
scalpel,  as  we  can  the  visible  and  tangible?  It  must 
content  us  for  the  present  simply  to  indicate  that  the 
instinct  and  consciousness  of  immortality  have  nothing 
to  fear  from  the  most  searching  examination  of  the  rea- 
son, but  find  far  more  of  confirmation  and  additional 
proof  than  of  contradiction  in  the  profoundest  thinking. 
Further,  that  this  instinct  and  consciousness  do  actually 
exist,  and  are  traceable  through  all  the  stages  and  ram- 
ifications of  the  human  race,  ...  is  confirmed  to  us  by 
our  opponents  themselves  . . . that  there  is  in  man 
something  which  is  deeper  and  stronger  than  the  max- 
ims of  a self-invented  philosophy,  namely,  the  divinely- 
created  nobility  of  his  nature,  the  inherent  breath  of 
life,  breathed  into  him  by  God,  the  relation  to  the  Eter- 
nal, which  secures  to  him  eternity.”  Watson  ( Insti- 
tutes, ii,  2)  goes  even  further,  and  declares  that  nowhere 
else  but  in  the  Bible  is  there  any  “ indubitable  declara- 
tion of  man’s  immortality,”  or  “ any  facts  or  principles 
so  obvious  as  to  enable  us  confidently  to  infer  it.  All 
observation  lies  directly  against  the  doctrine  of  man’s 
immortality.  He  dies,  and  the  probabilities  of  a future 
life  which  have  been  established  upon  the  unequal  dis- 


IMMORTALITY 


518 


DIMORTALITY 


tribution  of  rewards  and  punishments  in  this  life,  and 
the  capacities  of  the  human  soul,  are  a presumptive  ev- 
idence which  has  been  adduced,  as  we  shall  afterwards 
show,  only  by  those  to  whom  the  doctrine  had  been 
transmitted  by  tradition,  and  who  were  therefore  in  pos- 
session of  the  idea ; and  even  then,  to  have  any  effec- 
tual force  of  persuasion,  they  must  be  built  upon  ante- 
cedent principles  furnished  only  by  the  revelations  con- 
tained in  holy  Scripture.  Hence  some  of  the  wisest 
heathens,  who  were  not  wholly  unaided  in  their  specu- 
lations on  these  subjects  by  the  reflected  light  of  these 
revelations,  confessed  themselves  unable  to  eome  to  any 
satisfactory  conclusion.  The  doubts  of  Socrates,  who 
expressed  himself  the  most  hopefully  of  any  on  the  sub- 
ject of  a future  life,  are  well  known ; and  Cicero,  who 
occasionally  expatiates  with  so  much  eloquence  on  this 
topic,  shows,  by  the  skeptical  expressions  which  he 
throws  in,  that  his  belief  was  by  no  means  confirmed.” 

The  first  attempt  of  a philosophical  tenet  on  the  doc- 
trine of  immortality  is  offered  in  Plato’s  Phcedo.  On 
it  the  New  Platonics  reared  their  structure,  adorned 
with  many  fanciful  additions.  All  scientific  attempts 
throughout  the  Middle  Ages,  and  up  to  our  own  day, 
have  been  modified  views,  allied  more  or  less  to  Plato- 
nism. In  opposition  to  these,  the  French  materialism 
of  the  18th  century  attempted  to  destroy,  or  at  least 
undermine,  the  belief  in  immortality.  Not  less  mate- 
rialistic is  the  position  of  the-Pantheists,  headed  by  Spi- 
noza. “These  hold  that  the  World-Soul,  which,  in 
their  opinion,  produces  and  fills  the  universe,  also  tills 
and  rules  man ; najT,  that  it  is  only  in  him  that  it 
reaches  its  special  end,  which  is  self-consciousness,  and 
attains  to  thought  and  will.  It  is  true,  they  go  on  to 
say,  that  at  the  death  of  the  individual  this  World-Soul 
retreats  from  him,  just  as  the  setting  sun  seems  to  draw 
back  its  rays  into  itself;  and  that  self-consciousness 
now  sinks  once  more  into  the  great,  unconscious,  undis- 
tinguished spirit-ocean  of  the  whole.”  The  answer  to 
this  ridiculous  position  has  been  best  given  by  M'Cosh 
(Intuitions  of  the  Mind , p.  392  sq.) : “We  can  conceive 
of  air  thus  rushing  into  air,  and  of  a bucketful  of  water 
losing  itself  in  a river;  and  why?  because  neither  air 
nor  water  ever  had  a separate  and  conscious  personality. 
The  sotd,  as  long  as  it  exists,  must  retain  its  personality 
as  an  essential  property,  and  must  earry  it  along  with  it 
wherever  it  goes.  The  moral  conviction  clusters  round 
this  personal  self.  The  being  who  is  judged,  who  is 
saved  or  condemned,  is  the  same  who  sinned  and  con- 
tinued in  his  sin,  or  who  believed  and  was  justified 
when  on  earth.” 

Kant,  Locke,  and  other  metaphysicians,  on  the  other 
hand,  like  some  theologians,  as  we  have  seen  above, 
also  exclude  the  immortality  of  the  soul  from  the  prov- 
ince of  natural  theology.  “ They  deem  it  impossible  to 
prove  our  future  existence  from  the  ereation,  or  even 
from  the  admitted  attributes  of  the  Creator,  and  are 
thus  in  singular  opposition  to  the  ancient  Platonists, 
who  regarded  the  eternal  continuance  of  our  being  as 
the  more  obvious  doctrine  of  natural  theology,  and  in- 
ferred from  it  the  divine  existence  as  the  less  direct  in- 
timation of  nature.  It  is  said,  that  much  of  the  reason- 
ing employed  by  pagan  writers  to  prove  the  immortality 
of  the  soul  is  unsound.  This  is  a fact,  and  yet  by  no 
means  invalidates  their  right  to  believe  in  the  conclu- 
sion which  they  deduced  illogieally.  There  are  many 
truths,  the  proof  of  which  lies  so  near  to  ns  that  we 
overlook  it.  Believing  a proposition  firmly,  we  are  sat- 
isfied with  the  mere  pretence  of  an  argument  for  its  sup- 
port; and  searching  in  the  distance  for  proofs  which 
can  only  be  found  in  immediate  contact  with  us,  we  dis- 
cover reasons  for  the  belief  which,  long  before  we  had 
discovered  them,  was  yet  fully  established  in  our  own 
minds;  and  yet  we  deem  these  reasons  sufficient  to  up- 
hold the  doctrine,  although,  in  point  of  fact,  the  doc- 
trine does  not  make  trial  of  their  strength  by  resting 
upon  them.  If  they  were  the  props  on  which  our  be- 
lief was  in  reality  founded,  their  weakness  would  be 


obvious  at  once ; but,  as  they  have  nothing  to  sustain, 
their  insufficiency  is  the  less  apparent ; our  belief  con- 
tinues, notwithstanding  the  frailness  of  the  arguments 
which  make  a show  of  upholding  it,  and  thus  the  very 
defects  of  the  proof  illustrate  the  strength  of  the  con- 
clusion, which  remains  firm  in  despite  of  them.  That 
the  immortality  of  the  soul  has  been  firmly  believed  in 
by  men  destitute  of  a written  revelation  will  not  be  de- 
nied by  fair-minded  scholars.  It  probably  would  never 
have  been  doubted  had  not  some  learned,  though  inju- 
dicious controversialists,  as  Leland  and  others,  deemed 
it  necessary  to  magnify  the  importance  of  the  Bible  by 
undervaluing  the  attainments  of  heathen  sages.  The 
singular  attempt  of  Warburton  to  prove  that  the  au- 
thority of  the  Mosaic  writings  is  evinced  by  their  not 
teaching  the  doctrine  of  a future  state  led  him  to  an 
equally  paradoxical  attempt  to  show  that  the  phraseol- 
ogy of  pagan  sages  furnishes  no  valid  evidence  of  their 
belief  in  the  soul’s  immortality.  But  each  of  these  ef- 
forts was  abortive ; and  if  each  had  been  successful,  such 
a kind  of  success  would  have  resulted  in  even  greater 
evils  than  have  come  from  the  want  of  it.  The  fact, 
then,  that  our  existence  in  a future  world  has  been  an 
article  of  faith  among  pagan  philosophers  indicates  that 
this  doctrine  is  an  appropriate  part  of  natural  theology. 
But,  even  if  it  had  not  been  thus  believed  by  heathens, 
it  ought  to  have  been ; and  the  arguments  which  con- 
vince the  unaided  judgment  of  its  truth  are  also  reasons 
for  classifying  the  doctrine  among  the  teachings  of  na- 
ture. These  arguments  maj'  be  conveniently  arranged 
under  six  different  classes : first,  the  metaphysical,  which 
prove  that  the  mind  is  entirely  distinct  from  the  body, 
and  is  eapable  of  existing  while  separate  from  it;  that 
the  mind  is  not  compounded,  and  will  not  therefore  be 
dissolved  into  elementary  particles;  that,  being  imper- 
ceptible, it  cannot  perish  except  by  an  annihilating  act 
of  God  (comp.  Dr.  M‘Cosh’s  argument  above  cited);  sec- 
ondly, the  analogical,  which  induces  us  to  believe  that 
the  soul  will  not  be  annihilated,  even  as  matter  does 
not  cease  to  exist  when  it  changes  its  form ; thirdly,  the 
teleological,  which  incline  us  to  think  that  the  mental 
powers  and  the  tendencies  so  imperfectly  developed 
in  this  life  will  not  be  shut  out  from  that  sphere  of 
future  exertion  for  which  they  are  so  wisely  adapted ; 
fourthly,  the  theological,  which  foster  an  expectation 
that  the  wisdom  of  God  will  not  fail  to  complete  what 
otherwise  appears  to  have  been  commenced  in  vain, 
that  his  goodness  will  not  cease  to  bestow  the  happiness 
for  which  our  spiritual  nature  is  ever  longing,  and  that 
his  justice  will  not  allow  the  present  disorders  of  the 
moral  world  to  continue,  but  will  rightly  adjust  the  bal- 
ances, which  have  now  for  a season  lost  their  equipoise ; 
fifthly,  the  moral,  which  compel  us  to  hope  that  our  vir- 
tues will  not  lose  their  reward,  and  to  fear  that  our  vices 
will  not  go  unpunished  in  the  future  world,  which  seems 
to  be  better  fitted  than  the  present  for  moral  retribution ; 
and,  sixthly,  the  historical,  the  general  belief  in  a future 
state  of  rewards  and  punishments,  the  expectations  of 
dying  men,  the  premonitions  of  the  guilty,  and  the  te- 
nacious hopes  of  the  beneficent.  All  these  arguments 
are  in  favor  of  our  unending  existence,  and  there  are 
none  in  opposition  to  it ; and  it  is  an  axiom  that  what- 
ever has  existed  and  now  exists,  will,  unless  there  be 
special  proof  to  the  contrary,  continue  to  exist”  ( Bibli- 
otheca Sacra , May,  184G,  art.  ii). 

The  natural  proofs  of  the  immortality  of  the  soul  are 
treated  very  skilfully  by  professor  Chace,  in  the  Bibli- 
otheca Sacra  for  February,  1849.  First  he  analyzes  the 
Fhiedo  of  l’lato,  and  finds  it  to  contain  the  following  ar- 
guments for  immortality : 1.  From  the  capacity  and  de- 
sire of  the  soul  for  knowledge,  beyond  what  in  this  life 
is  attainable;  2.  From  the  law  of  contraries,  according 
to  which,  as  rest  prepares  for  labor,  and  labor  for  rest; 
as  light  ends  in  darkness,  and  darkness  in  light ; so  life, 
leading  to  death,  death  must,  in  turn,  terminate  hi  life ; 
3.  From  the  reminiscences  of  a previous  existence,  which 
the  soul  brings  with  it  into  the  present  life ; 4.  From 


IMMORTALITY 


519 


IMMUNITY 


the  simple  and  indivisible  nature  of  the  soid ; only  com- 
pound substances  undergo  dissolution ; 5.  From  the  es- 
sential vitality  of  the  soul  itself.  He  adds  that  al- 
though these  arguments  did  not  amount,  in  the  estima- 
tion of  Socrates,  “ to  an  absolute  proof  of  the  doctrine, 
he  thought  them  sufficient  not  only  to  deprive  death  of 
all  its  terrors,  but  to  awaken  in  the  mind  of  a good  man, 
when  approaching  death,  the  calm  and  cheerful  hope 
of  a better  life.”  These  arguments,  however,  are  far 
behind  the  present  state  of  science.  The  second  and 
third  rest  on  purely  imaginary  foundations;  the  fourth 
and  fifth  are  inconclusive ; and  the  first  only,  we  grant, 
lias  a real,  though  subordinate  value.  Cicero  adds  to 
these  arguments  one  from  the  consensus  gentium,  a uni- 
versal prevalence  of  a belief  in  immortality.  Of  But- 
ler’s argument  for  immortality  in  the  A nalogy,  the  pro- 
fessor remarks  that  it  is  perhaps  less  fortunate  than  any 
other  part  of  that  great  work.  “ Both  of  the  main  ar- 
guments employed  by  him  arc  no  less  applicable  to  the 
lower  animals  than  to  man,  and  just  as  much  prove  the 
immortality  of  the  living  principle  connected  with  the 
minutest  insect  or  humblest  infusoria  as  of  the  human 
soul.  It  is  not  a little  remarkable  that  this  foot,  which 
in  reality  converts  the  attempted  proof  into  a reductio 
ad  absurdum  of  the  principles  from  which  it  is  drawn, 
should  not  have  awakened  in  the  cautious  mind  of  But- 
ler a suspicion  of  their  soundness,  and  led  him  to  seek 
other  means  of  establishing  the  truth  in  question.  These 
he  would  have  found,  and,  as  we  think,  far  better  suited 
to  his  purpose,  in  the  facts  and  principles  so  ably  and  so 
fully  set  forth  in  his  chapters  on  the  moral  government 
of  God,  and  on  probation  considered  as  a means  of  disci- 
pline and  improvement.  Indeed,  we  have  always  been 
of  the  opinion  that  these  two  chapters  contain  the  only 
real  and  solid  grounds  for  belief  in  a future  life  which 
the  work  presents;  the  considerations  adduced  in  the 
one  particularly  appropriated  to  that  object  serving  at 
furthest  only  to  answer  objections  to  the  doctrine.” 
Professor  Chace  founds  his  own  argument  chiefly  upon 
the  gradual  and  progressive  development  of  life  in  our 
planet,  from  the  epoch  of  its  earliest  inhabitant  down  to 
the  present  hour,  which  development,  taken  in  connec- 
tion with  the  capacities  and  endowments  of  the  soul,  in- 
dicates, on  the  part  of  the  Creator,  a purpose  to  con- 
tinue it  in  being. 

See,  besides  the  authorities  already  referred  to,  Mar- 
silius  Ficinus,  De  Immortalitate  Animat  (Par.  1G41,  fol.) ; 
an  extract  of  it  is  given  in  Buhle,  Cesch.  d.  neueren  Phi- 
losophic, ii,  171  sq. ; Spalding,  Bcstimmung  des  Menschen 
(Leips.  1794)  ; Struvius,  Hist.  Doct.  Gr a:  corum  et  Roma-  ; 
norum,  de  Statu  A ni  nut  rum  post  mortem  (Alton,  1803, 
8vo) ; Meier,  Philosopkische  Lehre  v.  Z ust and  der  Seele  ; 
Mendelssohn,  Flue,  don  (Berlin,  1821);  Hamann,  Unster- 
blichkeit (Leips.  1773,  8vo);  Jacobi,  Philos.  Beweis.  d. 
Unsterblichkeit  (Dessau,  1783) ; Fichte  (J.  G.),  Destina- 
tion of  Man  (tr.  by  Airs.  R.  Sinnett,  London,  1846,  1 2mo) ; 
Jean  Paul  Richter,  Das  Campaner-Thnl.  (Frankf.  1797, 
8vo) ; Olshausen,  A ntiq.  Putrum  de  Immortalitate  Sen- 
tential (Rcgiora.  1827, 4to) ; Herrick,  Sylloge  Scriptorum 
de  Immortalitate,  etc.  (Regensb.  1790, 8vo);  Knapp,  The- 
ology, § 149  ; I luffed,  Ueber  d.  Unsterblichkeit-  d.  mensch- 
lichen  Seele  (Carlsrulie,  1832) ; Hase,  Evangel.  Protest. 
Dogmatik,  § 82, 84 ; Duncan,  Evidence  of  Reason  for  Im- 
mortality (1779,  8vo);  Tillotson,  Sermons,  ix,  309 ; Hale, 
Sir  Matthew,  Works,  i,  331 ; Stanhope,  Boyle  Lectures 
(1702,  4to,  serm.  3);  Foster,  Sermons,  i,  373;  Sherlock, 
IFor&s,  i5  124 ; Dwight,  Sermons,  i,  145 ; Channing, 
Works,  iv,  109 ; Chalmers,  Works,  x,  415 ; Drew,  on  Im- 
mortality (Pliiladel.  1830,  12mo) ; Newman,  The  Soul 
(Lond.  1849, 12mo) ; Quarterly  Review,  Aug.  1834,  p.  35 ; 
New  lork  Review,  i,  331;  Coleridge,  .1  ids  to  Refection, 
p.  209-212;  Robert  Hall,  Works,  i,  189;  ii,  373;  Howe, 
Works,  8 vo  ed.,  p.  193 ; A mer.  Bible  Repository,  x,  411 ; 
Christian  Spectator,  viii,  550;  New  Englander,  ix,  544 
sq.;  xi,  362  sq. ; xiv,  115  sq.,  161  sq. ; Meth.  Quart.  Rev. 
July,  1864,  p.  515 ; Oct.  1863,  p.  685 ; July,  I860,  p.  510 ; 
Jan.  1865,  p.  133;  Bib . Sacra,  18G0,  p,  sio  sq. ; Baptist 


Quart.  Rev.  1870,  April,  art.  v;  Journal  of  Speculative 
Philosophy,  April,  1870,  art.  i;  Sclialberg  (Dr.  J.),  Un- 
sterblichkeit o.  d.  pel's.  Eortdauer  d.  Seele  n.  d.  Tode  (3d 
edit.  Naum  berg,  1869)  ; Egomet,  Life  and  Immortality 
(Lond.  1860) ; Schott,  Sterben  u.  Unsterblichkeit  (Stuttg. 
1861);  Dumesnil,  V Immortalite  (Paris,  1861) ; Naville, 
La  Vie  Etemelle  (Par.  1863) ; Huber,  Idee  d.  Unsterblich- 
keit (Munich,  1864) ; Baguenault  de  Puehessc,  L'hnmor- 
talite  (Par.  1864) ; Pfaff,  Ideen  e.  A rztes  ii.  d.  Unsterblich- 
keit d.  Seele  (Dresden,  1864) ; Wilmarshof,  Das  Jenseits 
(Lpz.  1803);  Nitzsch,  System  of  Christian  Doctrine  (sec 
Index);  Pye  Smith,  First  Lines  of  Christ.  Theol.  p.  144, 
352, 357  ; Saisset,  Modern  Pantheism  (Edinburgh,  1863, 2 
vols.  12mo),  i,  140  sq.,  263 ; ii,  36  sq.;  Alger,  History  of 
Future  Life  (3d  ed.  Phila.  1864) ; Schneider,  Die  Unsterb- 
lichkettsidee,  etc.  (Regensb.  1870,  8vo) ; Brinton.  Myths 
of  the  New  World  (X.  Y.  1868, 12mo).  (J.  H.  W.) 

Immovable  Feasts.  See  Feasts. 

Immunities  of  tiie  Clergy.  See  Immunity. 

Immunity,  Ecclesiastical.  In  ecclesiastical  ju- 
risprudence a distinction  is  made  between  ecclesiastical 
immunity  ( immunitas  ecclesiastical  and  the  immunity 
of  the  Church  ( immunitas  ecclesia).  The  latter  is  the 
right  of  refuge  or  asylum  (q.  v.),  the  former  denotes  the 
exemption  of  the  Church  from  the  general  obligations 
of  the  community.  The  ministers  of  religion  have  at 
all  times  and  in  all  countries  enjoyed  particular  privi- 
leges and  liberties.  This  was  the  case  with  the  priests 
of  pagan  Rome,  whose  privileges  were  transferred  to  the 
Christian  clergy  by  Constantine.  Among  these  privi- 
leges wc  notice  particularly  exemption  from  taxes  (cen- 
sus'), from  menial  service  (nninera  sordida),  etc.  To 
this  was  added  also  the  privilege  of  separate  spiritual  ju- 
risdiction. See  Jurisdiction,  Ecclesiastical.  These 
immunities  belonged  to  the  members  of  the  clergy,  their 
wives,  children,  domestics,  and  to  the  goods  of  the 
Church,  but  did  not  extend  to  tlieir  private  property,  or 
to  persons  entering  the  clergy  simply  to  free  themselves 
from  civil  charges.  In  532  Justinian  added  to  these 
privileges  that  of  guardianship,  permitting  presbyters, 
deacons,  and  snbdeacons  to  act  as  guardians  or  trustees, 
but  not  extending  the  privilege  to  bishops  or  monks 
(Nov.  cxxiii,  cap.  5 ; A nth.  Presbyteros  C.  cit.  i,  3).  The 
ancient  Germans  also  granted  great  privileges  to  their 
priests.  Julius  Ciesar  considered  them  as  the  next  class 
to  the  nobility,  and  said,  “ Magno  (Druides)  sunt  apud 
eos  lionore”  (De  bello  Galileo,  lib.  vi,  cap.  13).  “ Druides 
a bello  abesse  consueverunt,  neque  tributa  una  cum  reli- 
| quis  pendunt,  militias  vocationis  omniumque  rerum  ha- 
bent  immunitatem”  (i6.  cap.  14).  When  Germany  was 
Christianized,  the  clergy  preserved  the  same  privileges, 
besides  those  granted  them  by  the  Roman  law,  which 
was  recognised  as  the  standard  (secundum  legem  Roma- 
nnm  ecclesia  vivit  [Lex  Ribuaria,  tit.  lviii,  § 1,  etc.]). 
The  stipulation  of  the  third  Council  of  Toledo  in  589,  can. 
21  (c.  69,  can.  xii,  qu.  ii)  that  the  auditors,  bishops,  and 
clergy  should  not  be  subject  to  compulsory  services,  was 
also  granted  afterwards  (Capitulare  a.  744,  cap.  7 ; com- 
pare Benedict’s  Capitnlurien-sammlung,  lib.  iii,  cap. 290). 
The  protection  which  the  Church  granted  to  all  who 
connected  themselves  with  it  soon  became  a source  of 
great  profit;  it  was  known  in  the  6th  century  under 
the  name  of  mitium , or  mittium  legitimum  (Roth,  Gesch.d. 
Benefcialwesens  [Erlangen,  1850],  p.  163  sq.).  To  this 
right  of  protection  of  the  Church  was  subsequently  add- 
ed that  of  collecting  and  appropriating  to  its  own  use 
the  taxes  which  would  otherwise  have  been  levied  on 
its  proteges  by  the  fiscal  officers : this  right  was  called 
emunitas,  and  was  conferred  by  the  kings.  Those  fiscal 
taxes  included  fines,  etc.,  of  which  the  holders  of  immu- 
nities became  the  recipients.  In  after  times  the  Chnrch 
obtained  also  the  right  of  assembling  armies,  which  was 
called  territoriuni  (see  Formula!  Amlegavenses,  4,8,21, 
22,  etc.),  and  which  laid  the  foundation  of  the  subse- 
quent ecclesiastical  principalities  (see  Rettberg,  Kir- 
chengeschichte  Deutchlands,  vol.  ii,  § 97 ; Waitz,  Deutsche 


IMMUTABILITY 


520 


IMPANATION 


Verfassungsgeschichte , ii,  290  sq.,  570  sq.).  These  im- 
munities were  further  specified  in  the  laws  of  the  French 
kingdom  (see  Capitula  synodi  Yernensis  a.  755,  c.  19,  28 ; 
Cap.  Motens.  a 756,  c.  8,  etc.),  as  were  also  those  of  the 
individual  members  of  the  clergy,  and  of  the  Church 
properties.  St.  Louis  decided  that  each  church  should 
have  a piece  of  land  (piansus)  free  from  all  taxations, 
etc.  {Capit.  a.  816,  c.  10,  25;  can.  xxiii,  qu.  viii).  Such 
properties  subject  to  taxes  as  did  come  into  the  hands 
of  the  Church  did  not,  however,  become  free  on  that  ac- 
count, unless  by  an  especial  favor  of  the  king  {Capit.  Hi, 
Caroli  M.  a.  812,  c.  11;  Capit.  iv,  Ludov.  a.  819,  c.  2). 
The  immunities  were,  however,  greatly  abused,  and  lost 
their  importance,  notwithstanding  the  decisions  of  the 
Council  of  Trent,  Sess.  xxv,  cap.  20  (“  Ecclesiie  et  eccle- 
siarurn  personarum  immunitatem  Dei  ordinatione  et  ca- 
nonicis  sanctionibus  constitutam  esse”),  and  the  bull  In 
cceiut  Domini  (q.  v.).  To  what  extent  the  properties 
of  the  clergy  and  of  the  Church  are  now  free  has  been 
settled  by  subsequent  decrees.  As  a rule,  the  clergy  are 
free  from  the  general  taxes,  and  from  the  personal  duties 
of  private  citizens.  The  candidates  for  priests’  orders 
and  students  in  theology  are  usually  exempt  from  mil- 
itary sendee.  The  churches  and  their  property  enjoy 
generally  the  same  privileges  as  the  government  build- 
ings and  state  property.  Personal  immunity  from  taxes, 
military  services,  etc.,  is  regularly  granted  to  the  clergy, 
as  also  to  teachers,  in  Protestant  as  well  as  in  Roman 
Catholic  countries.  See  Herzog,  Real-Encyklopadie , vi, 
642 ; Gosselin,  Power  of  the  Pope  (see  Index) ; Augusti, 
JIandbuch  d.  christ.  A rchaol.  i,  803  sq. 

Immutability,  the  divine  attribute  of  unchange- 
•ableness  indicated  in  the  great  title  of  God,  I Am.  So 
James  i,  17 : “Every  good  gift  and  every  perfect  gift  is 
from  above,  and  cometh  down  from  the  Father  of  lights, 
with  whom  is  no  variableness,  neither  shadow  of  turn- 
ing.” Psa.  xxxiii,  11 : “ The  counsel  of  the  Lord  stand- 
eth  forever,  the  thoughts  of  his  heart  to  all  genera- 
tions;” cii.  25-27 : “ Of  old  hast  thou  laid  the  foundation 
of  the  earth,  and  the  heavens  are  the  work  of  thy  hands. 
They  shall  perish,  but  thou  shalt  endure;  yea,  all  of 
them  shall  wax  old  like  a garment ; as  a vesture  shalt 
thou  change  them,  and  they  shall  be  changed : but  thou 
art  the  same,  and  thy  years  shall  have  no  end.”  God  is 
immutable  as  to  his  essence,  being  the  one  necessary 
being.  He  is  immutable  also  in  ideas  and  knowledge, 
since  these  are  eternal.  “ If  we  consider  the  nature  of 
God,  that  he  is  a self-existent  and  independent  Being, 
the  great  Creator  and  wise  Governor  of  all  things ; that 
he  is  a spiritual  and  simple  Being,  without  parts  or 
mixture  such  as  might  induce  a change;  that  he  is  a 
sovereign  and  uncontrollable  Being,  whom  nothing  from 
without  can  affect  or  alter;  that  he  is  an  eternal  Being, 
who  always  has  and  always  will  go  on  in  the  same  ten- 
or of  existence ; an  omniscient  Being,  who,  knowing  all 
things,  has  no  reason  to  act  contrary  to  his  first  re- 
solves; and  in  all  respects  a most  perfect  Being,  who 
can  admit  of  no  addition  or  diminution ; we  cannot  but 
believe  that,  both  in  his  essence,  in  his  knowledge,  and 
in  his  will  and  purposes,  lie  must  of  necessity  be  un- 
changeable. To  suppose  him  otherwise  is  to  suppose 
him  an  imperfect  being;  for  if  he  change  it  must  be 
either  to  a greater  perfection  than  he  had  before  or  to 
a less ; if  to  a greater  perfection,  then  was  there  plainly 
a defect  in  him,  and  a privation  of  something  better 
than  what  he  had  or  was ; then,  again,  was  he  not  al- 
ways the  best,  and  consequently  not  always  God:  if  he 
change  to  a lesser  perfection,  then  does  he  fall  into  a 
defect  again ; lose  a perfection  he  was  possessed  once  of, 
and  so  ceasing  to  be  the  best  being,  cease  at  the  same 
time  to  be  God.  The  sovereign  perfection  of  the  Deity, 
therefore,  is  an  invincible  bar  against  all  mutability; 
for,  whichever  way  we  suppose  him  to  change,  his  su- 
preme excellency  is  nulled  or  impaired  by  it.  We  es- 
teem changeableness  in  men  either  an  imperfection  or  a 
fault:  their  natural  changes,  as  to  their  persons,  are 
from  weakness  and  vanity ; their  moral  changes,  as  to 


their  inclinations  and  purposes,  are  from  ignorance  oi 
inconstancy,  and  therefore  this  quality  is  no  way  com- 
patible with  the  .glory  and  attributes  of  God”  (Char- 
nock,  On  the  Divine  Attributes). 

“Various  speculations  on  the  divine  immutability 
occur  in  the  writings  of  divines  and  others,  which, 
though  often  well  intended,  ought  to  be  received  with 
caution,  and  sometimes  even  rejected  as  bewildering  or 
pernicious.  Such  are  the  notions  that  God  knows  ev- 
erything by  intuition;  that  there  is  no  succession  of 
ideas  in  the  divine  mind ; that  he  can  receive  no  new 
idea;  that  there  are  no  affections  in  God,  for  to  suppose 
this  woidd  imply  that  he  is  capable  of  emotion;  that  if 
there  are  affections  in  God,  as  love,  hatred,  etc.,  they 
always  exist  in  the  same  degree,  or  else  he  would  suffer 
change:  for  these  and  similar  speculations,  reference 
may  be  had  to  the  schoolmen  and  metaphysicians  by 
those  who  are  curious  in  such  subjects ; but  the  impres- 
sion of  the  divine  character,  thus  represented,  will  be 
found  very  different  from  that  conveyed  by  those  in- 
spired writings  in  which  God  is  not  spoken  of  by  men , 
but  speaks  of  himself;  and  nothing  could  be  more  easily 
shown  than  that  most  of  these  notions  arc  either  idle, 
as  assuming  that  we  know  more  of  God  than  is  reveal- 
ed; or  such  as  tend  to  represent  the  divine  Being  as 
rather  a necessary  than  a free  agent,  and  his  moral  per- 
fections as  residting  from  a blind  physical  necessity  of 
nature  more  than  from  an  essential  moral  excellence; 
or,  finally,  as  unintelligible  or  absurd.  The  true  immu- 
tability of  God  consists,  not  in  his  adherence  to  his  pur- 
poses, but  in  his  never  changing  the  principles  of  his 
administration ; and  he  may  therefore,  in  perfect  ac- 
cordance with  his  preordination  of  things,  and  the  im- 
mutability of  his  nature,  purpose  to  do,  under  certain 
conditions  dependent  upon  the  free  agency  of  man,  what 
he  will  not  do  under  others;  and  for  this  reason,  that 
an  immutable  adherence  to  the  principles  of  a wise,  just, 
and  gracious  government  requires  it.  Prayer  is  in 
Scripture  made  one  of  these  conditions ; and  if  God  has 
established  it  as  one  of  the  principles  of  his  moral  gov- 
ernment to  accept  prayer  in  every  case  in  which  he  has 
given  us  authority  to  ask,  lie  has  not,  we  may  be  as- 
sured, entangled  his  actual  government  of  the  world 
with  the  bonds  of  such  an  eternal  predestination  of  par- 
ticular events  as  either  to  reduce  prayer  to  a mere  form 
of  words,  or  not  to  be  able  himself,  consistently  with  his 
decrees,  to  answer  it,  whenever  it  is  encouraged  by  his 
express  engagements.”  See  Watson,  Institutes,  i,  401 ; 
ii,  492 ; Perrone,  Tractatus  de  Deo , part  ii,  cli.  ii  • Knapp, 
Theology,  § 20 ; Graves,  Works,  iii,  283 ; Dorner,  in  Jahr- 
buch  fdeutsche  Theologie,  1859, 1860  (see  Index).  See 
also  Attributes;  God. 

Im'lia  aud  Im'nah,  the  name  of  several  men,  of 
different  form  in  the  original,  which  is  not  accurately 
observed  in  the  English  Version. 

1.  Hebrew  Yimxa'  restrainer;  Sept.  ’ Ipavd , 

Vulg.  Jemna,  Auth.  Vers.  “Irnna”),  one  of  the  sons  ap- 
parently of  Helem,  the  brother  of  Shamer,  a descendant 
of  Asher,  but  at  what  distance  is  not  clear  (1  Chron.  vii, 
35).  B.C.  prob.  cir.  1618.  Sec  Hotiiam. 

2.  Hebrew  Vi  jin  ah'  fortunate  ; Sept,  in  Gen. 

xlvi,  17,  ’If /ii'd,  Vulg.  Jamne,  Auth.  Vers.  “Jimnah;” 
in  Numb,  xxvi,  44,  'I apiv  and  ’lapiri,  Jemna  and  Jem- 
naitee,  “Jimna”  and  “Jimnites;”  in  1 Chron.  vii,  30, ’I rp- 
vd,  Jemna,  “ Imnah”),  the  first-named  of  the  sons  of 
Asher,  and  founder  of  a familv  who  bore  his  name.  B. 
C.  1874. 

3.  (Same  Hebrew  name  as  last;  Sept,  ’lepra,  Vulg. 
Jemna,  Auth. Vers.  “Imnah”).  The  father  of  Kore, which 
latter  was  the  Levite  in  charge  of  the  east  gate  of  the 
Temple,  and  appointed  by  Hezekiali  over  the  free-will 
offerings  (2  Chron.  xxxi,  14).  B.  C.  726. 

Impanation  (Latin,  impanatio ; from  in  and  panis, 
j bread;  otherwise  assamptio),  a name  given  to  one  of 
the  many  different  shades  of  the  doctrine  of  the  real 
presence  of  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  in  the  Eucha- 


DIPECCABILES 


521 


IMPOSITION  OF  HANDS 


rist.  The  theory  was  first  presented  in  the  12th  cen- 
tury by  Rnprecht  of  Deutz  in  the  following  shape  (Op- 
era ed.  Col.  1602,  i,  267 ; Comm,  in  Exod.  ii,  10) : “As 
God  did  not  alter  human  nature  when  he  incarnated 
divinity  in  the  womb  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  uniting  the 
Word  and  the  flesh  into  one  being,  so  he  does  not  alter 
the  substance  of  the  bread  and  the  wine  in  the  Eucha- 
rist, which  still  retain  the  material  properties  by  which 
they  are  known  to  our  senses  (sensibus  subact  uni),  while 
by  his  Word  he  brings  them  (the  component  elements) 
into  combination  with  the  identical  body  and  the  iden- 
tical blood  of  Christ.  As  the  Word  descended  from  on 
high  (a  summo ),  not  to  become  flesh,  but  to  assume  the 
flesh  (jusmmendo  carnem ),  so  are  the  bread  and  wine, 
from  their  inferior  ( ab  imo)  position,  raised  into  becom- 
ing flesh  and  blood  of  Christ,  without,  therefore,  being 
transmuted  (non  mutntum)  in  such  a manner  as  to  ac- 
quire the  taste  of  flesh  or  the  appearance  of  blood,  but 
do,  on  the  contrary,  imperceptibly  become  identical 
with  both  in  their  essence,  partaking  of  the  divine  and 
human  immortal  substance,  which  is  in  Christ.  It  is 
not  the  effect  of  the  Holy  Ghost’s  operation  (ajfectus)  to 
alter  or  destroy  the  nature  of  any  substance  used  for  his 
purpose,  but,  on  the  contrary,  to  add  to  that  substance 
some  qualities  which  it  did  not  at  flrst  possess”  (Be  Opp. 
Spirit,  s.  iii,  p.  21,  22).  In  his  work  De  dicinis  Ojfi- 
ciis  (ii,  9 ; Opp.  ii,  762),  he  says:  “The  Word  of  the  Fa- 
ther comes  in  between  the  flesh  and  the  blood  which  he 
received  from  the  womb  of  the  Virgin,  and  the  bread 
and  wine  received  from  the  altar,  and  of  the  two  makes 
a joint  offering.  When  the  priest  puts  this  into  the 
mouth  of  the  believer,  bread  and  wine  are  received,  and 
are  absorbed  into  the  body;  but  the  Son  of  the  Virgin 
remains  whole  and  unabsorbed  in  the  receiver,  united 
to  the  Word  of  the  Father  in  heaven.  Such  as  do  not 
believe,  on  the  contrary,  receive  only  the  material  bread 
and  wine,  but  none  of  the  offering.”  His  contemporary, 
Alger,  or  Adelher,  of  Liittich,  writing  in  defense  of  the 
dogma  of  transubstantiation  (1.  iii,  De  sacrum,  corp.  et 
sang.  D.  in  B'tbl.  Max.  Pair.  t.  xxi,  Lugdun.  1677),  was 
the  flrst  to  make  use  of  the  expression  impanutio  iu  this 
sense  (p. 251),  “In  pane  Christum  impanatum  sicut  De- 
um  in  carne  personaliter  inearnatum.”  Before  him, 
however,  Guitmund  of  Aversa  had,  iu  1190,  used  the 
same  word  to  express  the  probable  meaning  of  Berengar 
(Bibl.  Mar.  Patr.  Lugdun.  xviii,  411),  whose  supporters 
are  sometimes  called  Adessenarii  (q.  v.)  (from  adesse,  to 
be  present). 

The  doctrine  of  impanation  was  afterwards,  in  the 
Beformation  period,  but  wrongly,  attributed  to  Osiander 
by  Carlstadt.  Some  Roman  Catholic  writers,  e.  g.  Bel- 
larmine  ( Dissert . de  impttn.  et  consubstant.  Jena?,  1677), 
Du  Cange,  and  others,  accused  Luther  of  having  revived 
the  old  error  of  impanation.  The  Formula  Concordia 
(1577)  declares  that  the  “mode  of  union  between  the 
body  of  Christ  and  the  bread  and  wine  is  a mystery,” 
and  does  not  decide  positively  what  that  mode  is,  but 
only  negatively  what  it  is  not.  “ It  is  not  a persontd 
union',  nor  is  it  eonsubstantio ; still  less  is  it  a union  in 
which  change  of  substance  is  wrought  ( transubstantiu - 
Ho),  nor  a union  in  which  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ 
are  included  in  the  bread  and  wine  ( iinjianatio ),  but  a 
union  which  exists  only  in  this  sacrament,  and  there- 
fore is  called  saeramentalis.”  See  Herzog,  R&d-Eney- 
hlop.  vi,  644 ; Ivnapp,  Theology , § 146 ; and  the  articles 
Lord’s  Supper  ; Con s ubst a nt i at  ion  ; Transubstan- 
tiation. 

Impeccabiles,  a name  given  to  certain  heretics 
in  the  ancient  Church,  who  boasted  that  they  were  in- 
capable of  sin,  and  that  there  was  no  need  of  repent- 
ance; such  were  some  of  the  Gnostics,  Priscillianists, 
etc.  See  Impeccability. 

. Impeccability,  the  state  of  a person  who  cannot 
sin,  or  who,  by  grace,  is  delivered  from  the  possibility 
of  sinning.  Some  specidations  have  appeared  in  the 
world  upon  the  supposed  peccability  of  the  human  na- 
ture of  Christ,  founded  chiefly  on  certain  expressions  in 


the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  (iv,  15)  and  elsewhere,  as- 
serting that  Christ  was  “ in  all  points  tempted  like  as 
we  are.”  It  is  argued,  on  the  other  hand,  that  as  the 
Scripture  has  been  silent  on  this  point,  it  is  both  need- 
less and  presumptuous  to  attempt  to  draw  any  infer- 
ences from  such  expressions  as  that  above  cited ; and 
that  we  should  acquiesce  iu,  and  be  satisfied  with,  the 
declaration  that  “in  him  is  no  sin”  (l  John  iii,  5).  See 
Art.  xv  of  Church  of  England,  “Of  Christ  alone  without 
sin.”  Impeccability,  or,  at  least,  sinless  perfection,  has 
also  been  claimed  for  every  true  child  of  God  upon  the 
authority  of  1 John  iii,  9,  though  improperly,  the  word 
“ cannot”  requiring  to  be  taken  (as  in  many  other  pas- 
sages of  Scripture)  in  such  a latitude  as  to  express,  not 
an  absolute  impossibility  of  sinning,  but  “a  strong  disin- 
clination,” in  the  renewed  nature,  to  sin  “ in  such  a man- 
ner and  to  such  a degree  as  others.” — Eden,  Theol.  Diet. 
s.  v. ; Ullmann,  Sinlessness  of  Jesus  (Edinb.  1858, 12mo), 
p.  46 ; Haag,  Hist,  des  Dogmes  Chret.  (see  Index).  See 
Christ,  Sinlessness  of;  Perfection;  Sanctifica- 
tion. 

Imperiali,  Laurent,  a Roman  Catholic  prelate  of 
whose  early  life  nothing  is  known,  was  born  about  the 
year  1612,  and  was  created  cardinal  in  1652  by  pope  In- 
nocent X.  He  died  Sept.  21,  1673. — Migue,  Encyclop. 
Theol.  xxxi,  1094. 

Imperiali,  Joseph  Rene,  an  Italian  prelate  of 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  was  born  at  Oria,  April 
26,  1651.  Descending  from  a high  family,  and  enjoy- 
ing the  intercession  of  great  prelates,  he  took  orders  in 
his  Church,  and  was  rapidly  promoted.  Iu  1690  Inno- 
cent XI  created  him  cardinal,  and  he  was  sent  as  ambas- 
sador to  Ferrara.  At  the  papal  conclave  in  1730  lie  came 
within  one  vote  of  being  elected  the  incumbent  of  the 
papal  throne.  He  died  Jan.  15,  1737. — Hoofer,  Nouv. 
Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  833  ; Migne,  Encyclop.  Theol.  xxxi, 
1094  sq. 

Implicit  Faith.  Sec  Faith. 

Xmpluvium,  anciently  a large  area  or  spot  of 
ground  between  the  great  porch  of  the  church  and  the 
church  itself.  Because  uncovered  and  exposed  to  the  air, 
it  was  called  atrium  or  impluvium.  Eusebius  called  it 
aaSpiov.  “ In  this  court  or  church-yard  was  the  station 
of  the  energumens  (q.  v.),  and  that  class  of  penitents 
called  irpooKXaioi'Teg  or  fentes.  These  persons  were 
commonly  entitled  xetfu't^oVTtg  or  \tipciL,6ptvoi,  from 
the  circumstance  of  their  standing  in  the  open  air,  ex- 
posed to  all  changes  of  the  weather”  (Riddle,  Christian 
Antiq.  p.  725  sq.).  The  practice  of  burning  their  dead 
in  the  impluvium  was  initiated  iu  the  4th  century,  but 
it  did  not  become  general  until  after  the  6th  century. 
There  were  also  frequently  buildings  auxiliary  to  the 
church  edifice  placed  in  the  impluvium,  such  as  the 
baptisteries,  places  where  the  candidates  of  the  Church 
were  instructed  and  prepared  for  baptism,  etc.  See  Far- 
rar, Eccles.  Diet.  s.  v.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Importunity  (dvaicei'a)  in  prayer,  an  important 
element  of  success  (Luke  xi,8),as  evincing  earnestness, 
a faith  that  takes  no  denial,  and  especially  a persever- 
ance that  continues  to  intercede  until  the  request  is 
granted  (compare  Luke  xviii,  1 ; 1 Thess.  v,  17).  See 
, Prayer. 

Imposition  of  Hands,  a ceremony  used  by  most 
Christian  churches  in  ordination,  and  by  others  in  con- 
firmation. The  expressions  generally  used  in  the  Scrip- 
tures for  the  rite  of  imposition  of  hands  are:  C’lLJ,  or 
r-PU  (1^0),  with  etc.,  in  the  O.T.;  and  iiri- 

tiStj/u,  r&rjpi  yuort  tipi,  £7Ti  n va,  iir&tmg  ytiowp  in 
the  X.  T.  See  Hani>. 

I.  Origin  and  symbolical  Meaning  of  the  Act.  The 
practice  of  the  imposition  of  hands  as  a symbolical  act 
is  of  remote  antiquity.  It  is  “ a natural  form  by  which 
benediction  has  been  expressed  in  all  ages  and  among 
all  people.  It  is  the  act  of  one  superior  either  by  age 
or  spiritual  position  towards  an  inferior,  and  by  its  very 
form  it  appears  to  bestow  some  gift,  or  to  manifest  a de- 


IMPOSITION  OF  HANDS  522  IMPOSITION  OF  HANDS 


sire  that  some  gift  should  be  bestowed.  It  may  be  an 
evil  thing  that  is  symbolically  bestowed,  as  when  guilt- 
iness was  thus  transferred  by  the  liigh-priest  to  the 
scape-goat  from  the  congregation  (Lev.  xiv,  21) ; but,  in 
general,  the  gift  is  of  something  good  which  God  is  sup- 
posed to  bestow  by  the  channel  of  the  laying  on  of 
hands.”  The  principle  of  the  practice  seems  to  rest  on 
the  importance  of  the  hand  itself,  both  in  the  bodily  or- 
ganism and  in  the  moral  activity  of  man,  in  its  power 
and  in  its  action.  Thus  we  find  the  hand  raised  in  an- 
ger, extended  in  pity,  the  avenging  hand,  the  helping 
hand,  etc.  In  Greek  a distinction  exists  between  the 
hand  extended  to  shelter  or  protect  (ye Tpa  m reputin'), 
and  the  hand  held  out  imploringly  (yapac  uvaaxCiv) ; 
consequently  between  the  powerful,  directing  hand  of 
God,  and  the  imploring  hand  of  man.  The  Biblical  sig- 
nification of  the  imposition  of  hands  rests,  in  general,  on 
the  consideration  of  the  hand  as  the  organ  of  transmis- 
sion, both  in  the  real  and  in  the  symbolical  sense.  This 
results  from  the  fact  that  not  only  did  the  party  offer- 
ing sacrifice  bless  the  offering  by  the  imposition  of 
hands,  but  by  the  same  act  he,  as  sinner,  imparted  to  it 
also  his  sins  and  his  curse  (see  Lev.  i,  4;  iii,  2;  viii,  14 
sq. ; xvi,  21,  24).  Biilir  ( Symbolik  d.  mosaisehen  Cult  us, 
ii,  339)  rejects  this  idea  of  transmission  of  sin  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands  on  the  expiatory  victim  ; he  consid- 
ers it  only  as  a symbol  of  “renunciation  of  one’s  own,” 
and  argues  from  the  fact  of  a like  imposition  of  hands 
in  the  case  of  thanksgiving  offerings.  According  to 
Hofmann  ( Schriftbeiceis, , ii,  1,  p.  155),  the  imposition  of 
hands  in  sacrifices  signified  the  power  of  the  party  of- 
fering it  over  the  life  of  the  victim.  Baumgarten,  on 
the  contrary  ( Commentar  z.  Pentateuch,  i,  2,  p.  180),  and 
Kurtz  ( Das  mosaische  Opfer,  p.  70;  Gesch . d.  A.  B.  p. 
332),  maintain  the  idea  of  transmission.  The  imposi- 
tion of  hands  on  all  offerings  presents  no  difficulty  when 
we  adhere  to  the  general  notion  of  transmission ; the 
thanksgiving  offering  is  by  it  made  the  recipient  of  the 
giver’s  feelings.  This  idea  of  transmission  is  especially 
manifest  in  the  imposition  of  hands  in  consecration  or 
blessing.  Thus,  “in  the  Old  Testament,  Jacob  accom- 
panies his  blessing  to  Ephraim  and  Manassch  with  im- 
position of  hands  (Gen.  xlviii,  14);  Joshua  is  ordained 
in  the  room  of  Hoses  by  imposition  of  hands  (Numb, 
xxvii,  18;  Dent,  xxxiv,  9) ; cures  seem  to  have  been 
wrought  by  the  prophets  by  imposition  of  hands  (2 
Kings  v,  1 1);  and  the  high-priest,  in  giving  his  solemn 
benediction,  stretched  out  his  hands  over  the  people 
(Lev.  ix,  22).  The  same  form  was  used  by  our  Lord  in 
blessing,  and  occasionally  in  healing,  and  it  was  plainly 
regarded  by  the  Jews  as  customary  or  befitting  (Matt, 
xix,  13 ; Mark  viii,  23 ; x,  16).  One  of  the  promises  at 
the  end  of  Mark’s  Gospel  to  Christ’s  followers  is  that 
they  should  cure  the  sick  by  laying  on  of  hands  (Mark 
xvi,  LS) ; and  accordingly  we  find  that  Saul  received  his 
sight  (Acts  ix,  17),  and  Publius’s  father  was  healed  of 
his  fever  (Acts  xxviii,  8)  by  imposition  of  hands.” 

II.  Classification  of  Biblical  Uses. — More  particidarly, 
the  imposition  of  hands,  in  the  O.  T.,  may  be  divided 
into  (1)  the  patriarchal-typical  laying  on  of  hands  in 
blessing;  (2)  the  legal-symbolical,  in  consecration  to  of- 
fice; and  (3)  the  prophetico-dynamieal  in  healing.  The 
former  (see  Gen.  xlviii,  14)  is  a sort  of  typical  trans- 
mission of  a promised  hereditary  blessing  continued, 
through  the  party  thus  blessed,  on  his  posterity;  the 
second  (see  Exod.  xxix,  10  ; Numb,  xxvii,  18 ) is  a legal 
figurative  imparting  of  the  rights  of  office,  and  a prom- 
ise of  the  blessing  attached  to  it;  the  third  is  the  trans- 
mission of  a miraculous  healing  power  for  the  restora- 
tion of  life  (2  Kings  iv,  34).  Yet  in  the  latter  case  we 
must  notice  that  the  prophet  put  his  hands  on  the 
hands  of  the  child,  and  covered  it  with  his  whole  body. 
Thus  this  transmission  points  us,  in  its  yet  imperfect 
state,  to  the  N.  Test.  The  N.-T.  imposition  of  hands  is 
symbolical  of  the  transmission  of  spirit  and  life.  Here, 
as  in  the  O.  T.,  we  find  three  uses:  (I)  the  spiritual-pa- 
triarchal imposition  of  hands  by  our  Lord  and  the  apos- 


tles; (2)  the  spiritual -legal,  or  official  imposition  of 
hands;  (3)  the  healing  imposition  of  hands.  Christ  lays 
his  hands  on  the  sufferers,  and  they  are  cured.  But  the 
bodily  gifts  he  thus  transmits  are  joined  to  spiritual 
gifts ; he  cures  under  the  condition  of  faith  (Mark  vi, 
5).  The  more  the  people  become  imbued  with  the  idea 
that  the  curative  effects  are  connected  with  the  mate- 
rial imposition  of  hands,  the  more  he  operates  without 
it  (Mark  v,  23,41 ; vii,  32).  Sometimes  he  healed  only 
by  a word.  The  full  grant  of  his  Spirit  and  of  his  call- 
ing he  represented  in  a real,  but  symbolical  manner, 
when  he  extended  his  hands  over  his  apostles  in  bless- 
ing at  the  Mount  of  Olives  (Luke  xxiv,  50).  This  im- 
position of  the  hands  of  the  Lord  on  his  apostles,  in  con- 
nection with  the  imparting  of  his  Spirit,  is  the  source 
of  the  apostolical  imposition  of  hands.  It  was  also 
originally  a blending  of  the  symbol  and  its  fulfilment 
(see  Acts  viii,  17),  as  well  as  of  the  bodily  and  spiritual 
imparting  of  life  (Acts  ix,  17).  From  this  general  im- 
position of  hands,  under  which  Christians  received  the 
baptism  of  the  Spirit,  came  the  official,  apostolic  impo- 
sition of  hands  (Acts  xiii,  3;  1 Tim.  iv,  14).  At  the 
same  time,  the  example  of  Cornelius  (Acts  x)  shows 
that  the  apostolical  imparting  of  the  Holy  Spirit  was 
not  restricted  to  the  forms  of  official  or  even  general  im- 
position of  hands. 

III.  Ecclesiastical  Uses. — In  the  early  Church,  the  im- 
position of  hands  was  practised  in  receiving  catechu- 
mens, in  baptism,  in  confirmation,  and  in  ordination. 
Cyprian  derives  its  use  from  apostolical  practice  (Ep. 
72,  ad  Btephan. ; Ep.  73,  ad  Jubcecin.')  ; so  also  does  Au- 
gustine (De  Bapt.  iii,  16).  That  the  imposition  of 
hands  in  receiving  catechumens  was  different  from  that 
used  in  baptism,  etc.,  is  shown  by  Bingham  (bk.  x,  cli. 
i).  Its  use  in  baptism  was  general  as  early  as  Tertul- 
lian’s  time  (Coleman,  Ancient  Christianity,  cli.  xix,  § 4). 
This  probably  gave  rise  to  confirmation.  After  that 
rite  was  introduced,  imposition  of  hands  became  its 
chief  ceremony.  It  was  generally  performed  by  the 
bishop,  but  elders  were  authorized  to  do  it  in  certain 
eases,  in  subordination  to  the  bishop.  See  Coxfirma- 
tiox. 

In  ordination,  the  imposition  of  hands  was  an  essen- 
tial part  of  the  ceremony  from  an  early  period,  but  not 
in  the  ordination  of  any  class  below  deacons.  See  Op.- 

DINATIOX. 

In  the  modern  Church,  imposition  of  hands  is  consid- 
ered by  the  Komanists  as  an  essential  part  of  the  sacra- 
ments of  baptism,  ordination,  and  confirmation  ( Concil . 
Trident.  Sess.  xxiii).  “As  in  the  ancient  Church  this 
rite  existed  in  two  forms — the  actual  laying  on  of  hands, 
which  was  called  chirothcsia;  and  the  extending  the 
hand  over  or  towards  the  person,  which  was  styled  chi- 
rot  onia — so  in  the  Homan  Catholic  Church  the  former 
is  retained  as  an  essential  part  of  the  sacraments  of  con- 
firmation and  holy  orders;  the  latter  is  employed  in  the 
administration  of  the  priestly  absolution.  Both  forms 
are  familiarly  used  in  blessing.  In  the  mass,  also,  pre- 
vious to  the  consecration  of  the  elements  of  bread  and 
wine,  the  priest  extends  his  hands  over  them,  repeating 
at  the  same  time  the  preparatory  prayer  of  blessing” 
(Wetzer’s  Kirchen-Lexikon,  iv,  853).  The  Church  of 
England  and  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church  employ 
it  as  a symbolical  act,  in  confirmation  and  ordination; 
the  Methodist  Episcopal,  the  Presbyterian,  and  Congre- 
gational churches  employ  it  only  in  ordination.  Great 
stress  is  also  laid  on  the  performance  of  this  rite  in  the 
Greek  Church.  In  the  Kusso-Greek  Church  there  ex- 
ist some  sects  without  pr iests,  “ because  in  their  idea  the 
gift  of  consecration  by  laying  on  of  hands,  which  had 
continued  from  the  apostles  down  to  Nicon  (q.  v.),  had 
been  lost  by  the  apostacy  of  Nicon,  and  of  the  clergy 
seduced  by  him,  and  thus  all  genuine  priesthood  had 
become  impossible”  (Eekarclt,  Modern  Russia,  p.  261  sq., 
London,  1870, 8vo).  It  is  particidarly  pleasing  to  notice 
the  many  ingenious  devices  of  these  sects  to  provide  for 
a priesthood  descended  from  the  apostles,  in  order  to 


IMPOST 


523 


IMPOTENCY 


enable  at  least  the  performance  of  the  rite  of  marriage,  I 
which  they  do  not  legalize  unless  performed  by  an  ac- 
cepted priest.  The  Jews  assert  that  the  laying  on  of 
hands,  together  with  the  Sanhedrim,  ceased  after  the 
deatli  of  lJabbi  llillel,  the  “ prince,”  who  nourished  in  the 
4th  century.  See  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  v,  504 ; Bing- 
ham, Oriy.  Eccles . bk.  ii,  ch.  xxii ; bk.  iii,  eh.  i ; bk.  xii, 
ch.  iii;  Coleman,  Ancient  Christianity , p.  122,  360,  411 ; 
A post,  and  Primit.  Ch.  (Phila.  1369,  12mo),  p.  185  sq.; 
Augusti,  Ilamlb.  d.  A rchdoloyie,  iii,  222:  Ilall,  11  "oris, 
ii,  876;  B.  Baur,  in  the  Stud,  und  Krit.  1865,  p.  343  sq.; 
Ivothe,  .1  nfdnye  d.  christl.  Kirche , p.  161,  etc.  For  mon- 
ographs, see  Volbeding,  Index , p.  74,  145.  See  Bene- 
diction. 

Impost  (Lat.  impositus)  is  an  architectural  term  for 
the  horizontal  mouldings  or  capitals  on  the  top  of  a pi- 
laster, pillar,  or  pier,  from  which  an  arch  springs.  “In 
classical  architecture  the  form  varies  in  the  several  or- 
ders; sometimes  the  entablature  of  an  order  serves  for 
the  impost  of  an  arch.  In  Middle-Age  architecture  im- 
posts vary  according  to  the  style ; on  pillars  and  the 
small  shafts  in  the  jambs  of  doorways,  windows,  etc., 
they  are  usually  complete  capitals."  See  Parker,  Con- 
cise Glossary  of  Architecture,  p.  128;  Wolcott,  Sacred 
Archceoloyy,  p.  325. 


Barton  Seagrave,  cir.  1160. 


Impostor,  Religious,  a name  appropriately  given 
to  such  as  pretend  to  an  extraordinary  commission  from 
heaven,  and  who  terrify  the  people  with  false  denuncia- 
tions of  judgments.  Too  many  of  these  have  abounded 
in  almost  all  ages.  They  are  punishable  in  some  coun- 
tries with  tine,  imprisonment,  and  corporeal  punishment. 
— Buck,  Theol.  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Impostoribus.  See  Impostors,  The  three. 

Impostors,  The  three  ( Imjwstoribus , De  tribus). 
Towards  the  end  of  the  10th  century  a rumor  became 
current  that  there  had  appeared  a book  under  the  above 
title,  in  which  the  author  attempted  to  prove  that  the 
world  had  been  grossly  deceived  three  times  (by  the 
founders  of  the  three  principal  religions).  In  the  latter 
part  of  the  13th  century  this  supposed  work  attracted 
great  attention  among  theologians  and  sacans,  particu- 
larly on  account  of  the  mystery  which  shrouded  its  or- 
igin, its  author,  and  even  its  contents,  for  it  was  not  only 
wellnigh  impossible  to  procure  a copy  of  the  book,  hut 
even  the  contents  were  hardlv  known  definitely  to  any- 
body. Towards  the  close  of  the  16th  century  the  rumors 
concerning  this  book  were  again  set  on  foot.  The  most 
extravagant  ideas  prevailed,  and  the  authorship  of  the 
unknown  work  was  in  turn  attributed  to  the  emperors 
Frederick  I and  II,  Averrhoes,  Petrus  a Vincis,  Alphon- 
so  X,  king  of  Castile,  Boccaccio,  Poggio,  L.  Aretin,  Pom- 
ponazzio,  Maeliiavelli,  Erasmus,  P.  Aretino,  Ocliinus, 
Servetus,  llabelais,  Gruetus,  Barnaud,  Muret,  Xachti- 
gall,  Giordano  Bruno,  Campanella,  Milton,  etc.  It  is 
no  wonder  that  soon  a number  of  books,  entirely  differ- 
ent from  each  other,  made  their  appearance,  each  claim- 
ing to  be  the  original  work.  The  four  most  important 
were:  l.Yincentii  Panurgi  Epistola  ad  cl.  virum  Joan- 
nem  Baptistum  Morinum  de  tribus  impostoribus  (Paris,  1 


1644) ; 2.  De  tribus  Nebulonibns  (namely,  Thomas  Ani- 
ello,  Oliver  Cromwell,  Julius  Mazarinus);  3.  History  of 
the  three  fatnous  Impostors  (Lond.  1667);  4.  Christian! 
Kortlioldi  Liber  eh  tribus  moynis  impostoribus  (nempe 
Eduardo  Herbert  de  Cherbury,  Thoma  Hobbes,  et  Bcn- 
edicto  de  Spinosa)  (Kiloni,  1680).  In  1716  an  unknown 
person  of  llaag  claimed  to  possess  the  original  in  his 
library,  and  that  it  was  the  work  of  Petrus  a Vineis, 
containing  the  thoughts  of  the  emperor  Frederick  II, 
and  written  in  1230.  Several  copies  of  this  work  ap- 
peared soon  after  in  French  ; the  owner  claimed  to  have 
made  a vow  not  to  copy  the  book,  which,  however,  did 
not  prevent  him  from  translating  it.  A German  cheu- 
edier  d' Industrie  named  Ferber  finally  published  a work 
under  the  title  of  De  tribus  impostoribus,  des  trois  impos- 
teurs  (Franefort  sur  1c  Main,  1721),  but  it  was  found  to 
be  only  the  work  II Esprit  ele  Spinoze  (which  had  been 
published  in  MS.  at  the  beginning  of  the  18th  century) 
under  a new  name.  In  the  mean  time  there  appeared 
a Latin  work  of  the  same  title,  the  ISIS,  of  which  bears 
the  date  of  1598.  This  may  be  the  original  work, 
though  probably  the  date  has  been  altered,  as  it  bears 
internal  evidence  of  having  been  written  about  1556  or 
1560.  Nothing  is  known  of  its  author,  except  that, 
judging  from  the  bad  Latin  in  which  it  is  written,  he 
could  not  have  belonged  to  the  educated  classes.  Some 
think  that  the  original  title  could  hardly  have  been  De 
tribus  impostoribus,  as  it  does  not  call  either  of  the  found- 
ers of  the  three  religions — Moses,  Christ,  Mohammed — 
outright  impostors,  but  that  the  real  title  must  have 
been  De  impostures  reliyionum.  The  existing  MSS.  pre- 
sent two  different  recensions : one,  the  shortest,  bears 
the  latter  title;  the  other,  which  is  longer,  and  is  evi- 
dently an  enlarged  and  altered  edition,  has  the  title  De 
tribus  impostoribus.  Yet,  with  the  exception  of  a few 
unimportant  passages,  the  two  are  essentially  alike. 

The  author  attacks  the  morality  of  the  Jews  and  of  the 
Christians,  saying  that  Abraham  wished  to  honor  God 
by  offering  up  human  sacrifices,  and  that  the  Christians 
wickedly  pray  for  the  destruction  of  their  enemies ; that 
polygamy  is  permitted  by  Moses,  and  even  by  some  of 
the  passages  of  the  N.  T.,  etc.  “ That  twice  two  make 
four  is  so  self-evident  that  there  is  no  necessity  of  bring- 
ing all  the  mathematicians  together  to  demonstrate  it; 
but  religions  are  so  diversified  that  they  do  not  agree 
either  in  the  premises,  the  arguments,  or  the  conclu- 
sions, and  any  one  brought  up  in  one  of  them  is  likely 
to  continue  to  believe  his  own,  whatever  it  be,  the  only 
true  religion,  to  the  exclusion  of  all  others.”  Hence  the 
author  rejects  equally  the  Jewish,  Christian,  and  Mo- 
hammedan religions,  and  proposes  that  every  point  of 
belief  should  be  established  by  a system  of  witnesses 
and  counter-witnesses,  forming  a regular  processus  in 
infinitum.  See  Bosenkranz,  Iter  Ziceifel  am  Glauben 
(Halle,  1830);  F.W.  Genthe,  De  impostura  reliej.  breve 
compendium  (Lpz.  1833);  Prosper  Marchand,  Diet.  11 is- 
torique,  i,  312  sq. ; Farrar,  Crit.  Hist,  of  Free  Thouyht, 
p.  212  sq.;  Mosheim,  Eccles.  Hist.  bk.  iii,  cent,  xiii,  pt. 
i,  ch.  ii,  p.  284,  note  5 ; Herzog,  Theol.  Encyklop.  vi,  645; 
A rn.  Presb.  Rev.  Jan.  1 862,  p.  1 64  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Impotency,  the  want  of  procreative  power,  is,  ac- 
cording to  the  ecclesiastical  law  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church,  a good  ground  for  either  of  the  two  parties  an- 
nulling the  marriage,  if  the  impotency  existed  at  the 
time  the  contract  was  entered  into  (cap.  2,  3,  4,  X,  De 
friyulis,  4, 15).  But  the  defect  must  not  only  be  proved 
by  competent  medical  advisers,  but  also  pronounced  by 
them  as  incurable  (cap.  iv,  14,  X,  De  probat ionibus,  ii, 
19;  cap.  5,  6,  7,  X,  De  friyidis,  iv,  15;  Resolutio  96  to 
Sess.  24  of  the  Tridentine  Council  of  1731,  1732,  in  the 
Leipzig  edition  by  Richter,  p.  258  sq.).  If  any  doubt 
arises  the  marriage  contract  continues  in  force  three 
years  longer,  to  further  test  the  impotency  of  the  person 
so  accused.  At  the  expiration  of  this  additional  term 
of  trial  the  oath  of  one  or  both  of  the  parties  is  neces- 
sary to  obtain  permission  for  separation.  The  oldest 
ecclesiastical  laws  of  the  Protestants  follow  in  the  main 


DIPRECATION 


524 


IMPUTATION 


those  practices  (compare  Goschen,  Doctrina  de  matrimo-  I 
nio,  note  6,  p.  102-106;  Eiehhorn,  Kirchenrecht , ii,  348; 
Permanender,  Kirchenrecht,  p.  G97 ; Walter,  Kii-chen- 
recht,  p.  305).  In  Great  Britain  this  practice  is  sanc- 
tioned by  the  civil  law  of  the  land  (compare  Chambers, 
Encyclop.  v,  527).  See  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  iii,  474. 
See  also  Matrimony.  (J.  H.W.) 

Imprecation,  an  appeal  to  God,  invoking  his  curse 
upon  (1)  either  one’s  self  or  (2)  another.  For  the  former, 
see  Oath.  The  latter,  which  occurs  frequently  in  the 
so-called  ‘‘imprecatory  Psalms”  (see  Edwards,  On  the 
Divine  Imprecations,  in  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra,  i,  97 ; 
Presb.  Quart.  Rev.  App.  1861 ; British  and  For.  Ev.  Rev. 
July,  1864;  Heine,  Abus.  Ps.  cix,  imprec.  Helinst.  1739), 
is  justitied  partly  by  the  atrocity  of  some  of  the  crimes 
execrated  (e.  g.  that  of  Doeg),  and  partly  by  the  fact 
of  special  authority  in  the  act  of  inspiration.  See  Ac- 
cursed ; Cana  anites,  destruction  of  ; Psalms. 

Imprisonment.  See  Prison  ; Punishments. 

Improperia  (Lat.  taunts').  (1.)  Reproaches  of  Jesus 
against  the  Jewish  people.  See  Capernaum  ; Jerusa- 
lem. (2.)  In  the  Roman  Catholic  ritual,  certain  verses 
which  reproach  the  Jews  with  ingratitude,  and  which, 
while  the  priest  and  other  ecclesiastics  present  kiss  the 
cross,  are  chanted  by  two  singers  personifying  Christ,  in 
such  a manner  that  after  each  verse  one  chorus  replies 
in  the  Greek  and  another  in  the  Lat  in. praises  to  God; 
or  the  accusation  as  uttered  by  the  priests  is  repeated 
on  the  part  of  the  choir.— Pierer,  Unic.  Lex.  viii,  838. 
(J.  H.  W.) 

Impropriation,  in  Great  Britain,  a parsonage  or 
ecclesiastical  living,  the  profits  of  which  are  in  the  hands 
of  a layman ; in  which  ease  it  stands  distinguished  from 
appropriation,  which  is  where  the  profits  of  a benefice 
are  in  the  hands  of  a bishop,  college,  etc.,  though  the 
terms  are  now  used  promiscuously  in  England. 

Impulse.  The  desires  or  sensations  of  the  soul  are 
manifested  by  impulses,  which  tend  either  to  the  reali- 
zation of  some  idea,  the  acquirement  of  something  ex- 
terior to  ourselves,  or  the  repulsion  of  something  disa- 
greeable or  hurtful.  The  impulses  accompanying  divers 
thoughts  and  feelings  may,  according  to  their  expres- 
sion, be  corporeal,  spiritual,  or  intellectual.  We  must 
be  careful  how  we  are  guided  by  impulses  in  religion. 
“ There  are  many,”  as  one  observes,  “ who  frequently 
feel  singular  impressions  upon  their  minds,  and  are  in- 
clined to  pay  a very  strict  regard  unto  them.  Yea, 
seme  carry  this  point  so  far  as  to  make  it  almost  the 
only  rule  of  their  judgment,  and  will  not  determine  any- 
thing until  they  find  it  in  their  hearts  to  do  it,  as  their 
phrase  is.  Others  take  it  for  granted  that  the  divine 
mind  is  notified  to  them  by  sweet  or  powerful  impres- 
sions of  some  passages  of  sacred  writ.  There  are  others 
who  are  determined  by  visionary  manifestations,  or  by 
the  impressions  made  in  dreams,  and  the  interpretations 
they  put  upon  them.  All  these  things, being  of  the  same 
general  nature,  may  very  justly  be  considered  together; 
and  it  is  a matter  of  doubt  with  many  how  far  these 
things  are  to  be  regarded,  or  attended  to  by  us,  and  how 
we  may  distinguish  any  divine  impressions  of  this  kind 
from  the  delusions  of  the  tempter,  or  of  our  own  evil 
hearts.  But  whoever  makes  any  of  these  things  his 
rule  and  standard,  forsakes  the  divine  word ; and  noth- 
ing tends  more  to  make  persons  unhappy  in  themselves, 
unsteady  in  their  conduct,  or  more  dangerously  deluded 
in  their  practice,  than  paying  a random  regard  to  these 
impulses,  as  notifications  of  the  divine  will." — Buck,  The- 
ohuj.  Dictionary,  s.  v. ; Kant,  Grnndlegung  z.  Metaphysik 
der  Sit  ten  (pref.  p.  10,  63) ; Evany.  Kirchenzeituny  (1853, 
No.  15) ; Erseh  u.  Gruber,  Encyklopddie ; Herzog,  Real- 
Encyklopddie,  ii,  126.  See  Enthusiasm;  Providence. 

Impurity,  want  of  that  regard  to  decency,  chastity, 
or  holiness  which  our  duty  requires.  Impurity,  in  the 
law  of  Moses,  is  any  legal  defilement.  Of  these  there 
Were  several  sorts : some  were  voluntary,  as  the  touch- 


ing a dead  body,  or  any  animal  that  died  of  itself ; or 
any  creature  that  was  esteemed  unclean;  or  touching 
things  holy  by  one  who  was  not  clean,  or  was  not  a 
priest ; the  touching  one  who  had  a leprosy,  one  who 
had  a gonorrhoea,  or  who  was  polluted  by  a dead  carcass, 
etc.  Sometimes  these  impurities  were  involuntary,  as 
when  any  one  inadvertently  touched  bones,  or  a sepul- 
chre, or  anything  polluted ; or  fell  into  such  diseases  as 
pollute,  as  the  leprosy,  etc.  The  beds,  clothes,  and  mov- 
ables which  had  touched  anything  unclean,  contracted 
also  a kind  of  impurity,  and  in  some  cases  communicated 
it  to  others.  These  legal  pollutions  were  generally  re- 
moved by  bathing,  and  lasted  no  longer  than  the  even- 
ing. The  person  polluted  plunged  over  head  in  the 
water,  and  either  had  his  clothes  on  when  he  did  so,  or 
washed  himself  and  his  clothes  separately.  Other  pol- 
lutions continued  seven  days,  as  that  which  was  con- 
tracted by  touching  a dead  body.  Some  impurities  last- 
ed forty  or  fifty  days,  as  that  of  women  who  were  lately 
delivered,  who  were  unclean  forty  days  after  the  birth  of 
a boy,  and  fifty  after  the  birth  of  a girl.  Others,  again, 
lasted  till  the  person  was  cured.  Many  of  these  pollu- 
tions were  expiated  by  sacrifices,  and  others  by  a certain 
water  or  lye  made  with  the  ashes  of  a red  heifer  sacri- 
ficed on  the  great  day  of  expiation.  "When  the  leper 
was  cured,  he  went  to  the  Temple  and  offered  a sacrifice 
of  two  birds,  one  of  which  was  killed,  and  the  other  set 
at  liberty.  He  who  had  touched  a dead  body,  or  had 
been  present  at  a funeral,  was  to  be  purified  with  the 
water  of  expiation,  and  this  upon  pain  of  death.  The 
■woman  who  had  been  delivered  offered  a turtle  and  a 
lamb  for  her  expiation;  or, if  she  -was  poor, two  turtles, 
or  two  young  pigeons.  These  impurities,  which  the 
law  of  Moses  has  expressed  with  the  greatest  accuracy 
and  care,  were  only  figures  of  other  more  important 
impurities,  such  as  the  sins  and  iniquities  committed 
against  God,  or  faults  committed  against  our  neighbor. 
The  saints  and  prophets  of  the  Old  Testament  were  sen- 
sible of  this ; and  our  Saviour,  in  the  Gospel,  has  strongly 
inculcated  that  they  are  not  outward  and  corporeal  pol- 
lutions which  render  us  unacceptable  to  God,  but  such 
inward  pollutions  as  infect  the  soul,  and  are  violations  of 
justice,  truth,  and  charity. — Buck,  Theol. Dictionary,  s.  v. 
See  Uncleanness. 

Imputation,  in  the  O.  T.  5UH,  in  the  N.  T.  Xoyi- 
£o pai,  is  employed  in  the  Scriptures  to  designate  any 
action,  word,  or  thing,  as  accounted  or  reckoned  to  a 
; person ; and  in  all  these  it  is  unquestionably  used  with 
reference  to  one’s  own  doings,  words,  or  actions,  and  not 
with  reference  to  those  of  a second  person  (comp.  Gen. 
xv,  6 : Psa.  ev,  31 ; Numb,  xxv,  6;  xviii,27 ; 2 Sam.  xix, 
* 19 ; I*sa.  xxxi,  2 ; Lev.  vii,  18 ; xvii,  4 ; Prov.  xxvii,  14 ; 
J 2 Cor.  v,  19;  2 Tim.  iv,  16;  Rom.  iv,  3-23;  Gal.  iii,  6; 
Jas.  ii,  23).  The  word  imputation  is,  however,  used  for 
a certain  theological  theory,  which  teaches  that  (1)  the 
sin  of  Adam  is  so  attributed  to  man  as  to  be  considered, 
in  the  divine  counsels,  as  his  own,  and  to  render  him 
guilty  of  it ; (2)  that,  in  the  Christian  plan  of  salvation, 
the  righteousness  of  Christ  is  so  attributed  to  man  as  to 
be  considered  his  own,  and  that  he  is  therefore  justified 
by  it.  See  Fall  of  Man. 

I.  “ Whatever  diversity  there  may  exist  in  the  opin- 
ions of  theologians  respecting  imputation,  when  they 
come  to  express  their  own  views  definitely,  they  will 
yet,  for  the  most  part,  agree  that  the  phrase  God  im- 
putes the  sin  of  our  progenitors  to  their  posterity,  means 
that  for  the  sins  committed  by  our  progenitors  God pun- 
ishes  their  descendants.  The  term  to  impute  is  used  in 
different  senses,  (a.)  It  is  said  of  a creditor,  who  charges 
something  to  his  debtor  as  debt,  e.  g.  Philem.  ver.  18. 
(b.)  It  is  transferred  to  human  judgment  when  any  one 
is  punished,  or  declared  deserving  of  punishment.  Crime 
is  regarded  as  a debt,  which  must  be  cancelled  partly  by 
actual  restitution  and  partly  by  punishment,  (c.)  This 
now  is  applied  to  God,  who  imputes  sin  Avhen  he  pro- 
nounces men  guilty,  and  treats  them  accordingly,  i.  e. 


IMPUTATION" 


525 


IMPUTATION 


when  he  actually  punishes  the  sin  of  men  (*“2  2'ITn, 
XoylZttrOat  d/uipriav,  Psa.  xxxii,2).  The  one  punish- 
ed is  called  ji”  X;-3,  in  opposition  to  one  to  whom 
Sign,  who  is  rewarded  (Psa.  evi,  31 ; Horn,  iv, 
3)”  (Knapp,  Theology > § 76). 

1.  The  stronghold  of  the  doctrine  of  imputation,  with 

those  who  maintain  the  high  Calvinistic  sense  of  that 
tenet,  is  liom.  v,  12-19.  “ The  greatest  difficulties  with 

respect  to  this  doctrine  have  arisen  from  the  fact  that 
many  have  treated  what  is  said  by  Paul  in  the  fifth  of 
Romans — a passage  wholly  popular,  and  anything  hut 
formally  exact  and  didactic — in  a learned  and  philosoph- 
ical manner,  and  have  defined  terms  used  by  him  in  a 
loose  and  popular  way  by  logical  and  scholastic  distinc- 
tions. Paul  shows,  in  substance,  that  all  men  are  re- 
garded and  punished  by  God  as  sinners,  and  that  the 
ground  of  this  lies  in  the  act  of  one  man;  as,  on  the 
contrary,  deliverance  from  punishment  depends  also 
upon  one  man,  Jesus  Christ.  If  the  words  of  Paul  are 
not  perverted,  it  must  be  allowed  that  in  Rom.  v,  12-14 
he  thus  reasons:  The  cause  of  the  universal  mortality 
of  the  human  race  lies  in  Adam’s  transgression.  He 
sinned,  and  so  became  mortal.  Other  men  are  regarded 
and  treated  by  God  as  punishable,  because  they  are  the 
posterity  of  Adam,  the  first  transgressor,  and  consequent- 
ly they  too  are  mortal.  Should  it  now  be  objected,  that 
the  men  who  lived  from  Adam  to  Moses  might  them- 
selves have  personally  sinned , and  so  have  been  punish- 
ed with  death  on  their  own  account,  it  might  be  an- 
swered that  those  who  lived  before  the  time  of  Moses 
had  no  express  and  positive  law  which  threatened  the 
punishment  of  sin,  like  those  who  lived  after  Moses. 
The  positive  law  of  Moses  was  not  as  vet  given  ; they 
could  not,  consequently,  be  punished  on  account  of  their 
own  transgressions,  as  no  law  was  as  yet  given  to  them 
(ver.  14).  Still  they  must  die,  like  Adam,  who  trans- 
gressed a positive  law.  Hence  their  mortality  must 
have  another  cause,  and  this  is  to  be  sought  in  the  im- 
putation of  Adam’s  transgression.  In  the  same  way,  the 
ground  of  the  justification  of  man  lies  not  in  himself, 
but  in  Christ,  the  second  Adam. 

“ We  find  that  the  passage  in  Rom.  v was  never  un- 
derstood in  the  ancient  Grecian  Church,  down  to  the  4th 
century,  to  teach  imputation  in  a strictly  philosophical 
and  judicial  sense ; certainly  Origen,  and  the  writers  im- 
mediately succeeding  him,  exhibit  nothing  of  this  opin- 
ion. They  regard  bodily  death  as  a consequence  of  the 
sin  of  Adam,  and  not  as  a punishment,  in  the  strict  and 
proper  sense  of  this  term.  Thus  Chrysostom  says,  upon 
Rom.  v,  12,  ’E/caVon  ttsoovtoq  (A Sap),  icai  oi)  f. n)  Qa- 
yovrtg  awo  rou  %v Aov,  ytyovaoiv  tKtivov  Srugroi. 
Cyril  (Adi\  Antkropom.  c.  8)  says,  Ot  ytyovortg  au- 
tou  (’A cap),  tnq  enro  <p9aproi>,  <j>9aproi  ytyovuptv. 

“ The  Latin  Church,  on  the  other  hand,  was  the  prop- 
er scat  of  the  strict  doctrine  of  imputation.  There  they 
began  to  interpret  the  words  of  Paul  as  if  he  were  a 
scholastic  and  logical  writer.  One  cause  of  their  mis- 
apprehending so  entirely  the  spirit  of  this  passage  was, 
that  the  word  imputare  (a  word  in  common  use  among 
civilians  and  in  judicial  affairs)  had  been  employed  in 
the  Latin  versions  in  rendering  ver.  13  of  Rom.  v;  and 
that  dp’  p (ver.  12)  had  been  translated  in  quo,  and  could 
refer,  as  they  supposed,  to  nobody  but  Adam.  This 
opinion  was  then  associated  with  some  peculiar  philo- 
sophical ideas  at  that  time  prevalent  in  the  West,  and 
from  the  whole  a doctrine  de  imputations  was  formed,  in 
sense  -wholly  unknown  to  the  Hebrews,  to  the  T., 
and  to  the  Grecian  Church.  This  clearly  proves  that 
the  Grecian  teachers,  e.  g.  those  in  Palestine,  took  sides 
with  Pelagius  against  the  teachers  of  the  African  Church. 

2.  “ Many  have  inferred  the  justice  of  imputation  from 
the  supposition  that  Adam  was  not  only  the  natural  or 
seminal,  but  also  the  moral  head  of  the  human  race,  or 
even  its  representative  and  federal  head.  They  suppose, 
accordingly,  that  the  sin  of  Adam  is  imputed  to  us  on 
the  same  principle  on  which  the  doings  of  the  head  of 


a family,  or  of  the  plenipotentiary  of  a state,  are  impu- 
ted to  his  family  or  state,  although  they  had  no  person- 
al agency  in  his  doings.  In  the  same  way  they  suppose 
Christ  took  the  place  of  all  men,  and  that  what  he  did 
is  imputed  to  them.  According  to  this  theory,  God  en- 
tered into  a league  or  covenant  with  Adam,  and  so  Adam 
represented  and  took  the  place  of  the  whole  human  race. 
This  theory  was  invented  by  some  schoolmen,  and  has 
been  adopted  by  many  in  the  Romish  and  Protestant 
Church  since  the  16th  century,  and  was  defended  even 
in  the  18th  century  by  some  Lutheran  theologians,  as 
Pfaff  of  Tiibingen,  by  some  of  the  followers  of  Wolf  (e. 
g.  Carpzov,  in  his  Comm,  de  Imputations  facti  proprii  et 
alieni),  and  by  Baumgarten,  in  his  Dogmatik,  and  dis- 
putation lde  imputations peccati  Adamitid.'  But  it  was 
more  particularly  favored  by  the  Reformed  theologians, 
especially  by  the  disciples  of  Cocceius,  at  the  end  of  the 
17th  and  commencement  of  the  18th  century,  e.  g.  by 
Witsius,  in  his  (Kconomia  fader um.  They  appeal  to 
IIos.  vi,  7,  ‘They  transgressed  the  covenant,  like  Adam,’ 
i.  e.  broke  the  divine  laws.  But  where  is  it  said  that 
Adam  was  the  federal  head,  and  that  his  transgression 
is  imputed  to  them  ? On  this  text  Morns  justly  ob- 
serves, ‘Est  mera  comparatio  Judseorum  peccantium  cum 
Adamo  peccante.’  Other  texts  are  also  cited  in  behalf 
of  this  opinion. 

“But,  for  various  reasons,  this  theory  cannot  be  cor- 
rect. For  (a.)  the  descendants  of  Adam  never  empow- 
ered him  to  be  their  representative  and  to  act  in  their 
name.  ( b .)  It  cannot  be  shown  from  the  Bible  that 
Adam  was  informed  that  the  fate  of  all  his  posterity 
was  involved  in  his  own.  (e.)  If  the  transgression  of 
Adam  is  imputed,  by  right  of  covenant,  to  all  his  pos- 
terity, then,  in  justice,  all  their  transgressions  should  be 
again  imputed  to  him  as  the  guilty  cause  of  all  their 
misery  and  sin.  What  a mass  of  guilt,  then,  would 
come  upon  Adam ! But  of  all  this  nothing  is  said  in 
the  Scriptures,  (d.)  The  imputation  of  the  righteous- 
ness of  Christ  cannot  be  alleged  in  support  of  this  the- 
ory; for  this  is  imputed  to  men  only  by  their  own  will 
and  consent.  This  hypothesis  has  been  opposed,  with 
good  reason,  by  John  Taylor,  in  his  work  on  original 
sin.” 

3.  “ Others  endeavor  to  deduce  the  doctrine  of  impu- 
tation from  the  scientia  media  of  God,  or  from  his  fore- 
knowledge of  what  is  conditionally  possible.  The  sin 
of  Adam,  they  say,  is  imputed  to  us  because  God  fore- 
saw that  each  one  of  us  would  have  committed  it  if  he 
had  been  in  Adam’s  stead,  or  placed  in  his  circumstances. 
Even  Augustine  says  that  tlie  sin  of  Adam  is  imputed 
to  us  propter  consensionem,  or  consensum  preesumptum. 
This  theory  has  been  advanced,  in  modern  times,  by 
Retisch,  in  his  Introductio  in  Theologiam  revelation , and 
in  BremqucH’s  work  Die  gute  Sache  Gottes,  bei  Zurech- 
nung  des  Falls  (Jena,  1749).  But  it  is  a new  sort  of 
justice  which  would  allow  us  to  be  punished  for  sins 
which  we  never  committed,  or  never  designed  to  com- 
mit, hut  only  might  possibly  have  committed  under  cer- 
tain circumstances.  Think  a moment  how  many  sins 
we  all  should  have  committed  if  God  had  suffered  us  to 
come  into  circumstances  of  severe  temptation.  An  in- 
nocent man  might,  bv  this  rule,  be  punished  as  a mur- 
derer because,  had  he  lived  at  Paris  on  St.  Bartholo- 
mew’s night,  in  1572,  he  might,  from  mistaken  zeal, 
have  killed  a heretic.” 

II.  “Since  none  of  these  hypotheses  satisfactorily  ex- 
plain the  matter,  the  greater  part  of  the  moderate  and 
Biblical  theologians  of  the  Protestant  Church  are  con- 
tent with  saying,  what  is  manifestly  the  doctrine  of  the 
Bible,  that  the  imputation  of  Adam's  sin  consists  in  the 
prevailing  mortality  of  the  human  race,  and  that  this  is 
not  to  be  regarded  as  imputation  in  the  strict  judicial 
sense,  but  rather  as  the  consequence  of  Adam's  trans- 
gression” (Knapp,  Theology,  § 76). 

III.  “ The  enlightened  advocates  of  imputation  do  af- 
ter all  disclaim  the  actual  transfer  of  Adam's  sin  to  his 
posterity.  They  are  well  aware  that  the  human  mind 


IMPUTATION 


526 


IMPUTATION 


cannot  be  forced  up  to  such  a point  as  this.  But  they 
do  still  urgently  contend  for  the  idea  that  all  Adam’s 
posterity  axe  punished  for  his  sin,  although  they  did  not, 
in  fact,  commit  it;  and  that  in  this  sense,  therefore,  they 
are  all  guilty  of  it.  Turretin’s  view  is,  that  Adam’s  sin 
imputed  is  the  ground  or  cause  why  men  are  born  with 
original  sin  inherent , i.  e.  with  natural  depravity;  and 
this  is,  in  his  view,  the  punishment  inflicted  because  of 
Adam’s  sin  imputed  to  them.  And  with  him  many  oth- 
ers agree.  But  Calvin,  Edwards,  Stapfer,  and  others,  re- 
ject the  doctrine  of  the  real  imputation  of  Adam’s  sip 
to  his  posterity,  while  they  maintain  that  native  inher- 
ent depravity  is  the  consequence  of  it,  which  is  charge- 
able to  us  as  sin.  This  Turretin  declares  to  be  no  im- 
putation at  all,  i.  e.  a real  rejection  of  his  doctrine.  Re- 
jecting these  views  of  Turretin,  then,  Edwards,  in  order 
to  account  for  it  how  all  men  came  to  be  born  with  in- 
herent sin,  labors  to  show  that  there  is  a physical  and 
psychological  unity  between  Adam  and  all  his  posterity. 
According  to  him,  this  would  account  for  the  commence- 
ment of  native  depravity,  and  when  commenced  it  is  im- 
puted to  us  as  sin,  and  therefore  punishable,  on  legal 
ground,  with  temporal  and  eternal  evil.  But  Turretin 
makes  all  to  he  punishment  from  the  outset,  and  that  on 
the  ground  of  the  sin  of  Adam,  which  is  actually  impu- 
ted to  his  descendants”  (Stuart  on  Romans , v,  19,  p.  592). 
Dr.  H.  B.  Smith,  in  an  article  in  the  Christian  Union , 
takes  the  advanced  groimd  that  while  it  must  be  con- 
ceded “that  there  is  a proper  interpretation,”  and  that 
Adam’s  posterity  do  inherit,  “ by  virtue  of  their  union 
with  him,  certain  penal  consequences  of  the  great  apos- 
tasy,” man  can  he  “ delivered"  from  these  evils  by  “ divine 
grace"  and  “ that  for  original  sin , without  actual  trans- 
gression, no  one  will  be  consigned  to  everlasting  death ” 
[italics  are  ours].  In  an  article  in  the  Princeton  Theo- 
logical Essays  (i,  138  sq.),  a member  of  the  Presbyterian 
Church  takes  even  more  liberal  ground.  “We  know 
that  it  is  often  asserted  that  Augustine  and  his  follow- 
ers held  the  personal  unity  of  Adam  and  his  race 

Let  it  be  admitted  that  Augustine  did  give  this  expla- 
nation of  the  ground  of  imputation.  Do  we  reject  the 
doctrine  because  we  reject  the  reason  which  he  gives  to 
justify  and  explain  it?  ....  It  is  no  special  concern  of 

ours  what  Augustine  held  on  this  point Any  man 

who  holds  that  there  is  such  an  ascription  of  the  sin  of 
Adam  to  his  posterity  as  to  be  the  ground  of  their  bear- 
ing the  punishment  of  that  sin,  holds  the  doctrine  of 
imputation,  whether  he  undertakes  to  justify  this  impu- 
tation merely  on  the  ground  that  we  are  the  children  of 
Adam,  or  on  the  principle  of  representation,  or  of  scien- 
tia  media ; or  whether  he  chooses  to  philosophize  on  the 
nature  of  unity  until  he  confounds  all  notions  of  per- 
sonal identity,  as  President  Edwards  appears  to  have 
done.” 

IV.  The  question  of  the  imputation  of  Christ’s  active 
obedience  to  believers  is  very  skilfully  treated  by  Wat- 
son ( Theological  Institutes , pt.  ii,  chap,  xxiii),  himself  a 
believer  in  the  doctrine  of  imputation  in  a modified  way. 
We  give  here  a summary  of  his  statement  of  the  sub- 
ject. , 

There  are  three  opinions  as  to  imputation. 

(I.)  The  high  Calvinistic,  or  Antinomian  scheme, 
which  is,  that  “ Christ’s  active  righteousness  is  imputed 
unto  us  as  ours.”  In  answer  to  this,  wc  say,  1.  It  is  no- 
where stated  in  Scripture.  2.  The  notion  here  attach- 
ed to  ( 'hrist’s  representing  us  is  wholly  gratuitous.  3. 
Thore  is  no  weight  in  the  argument  that,  “ as  our  sins 
were  accounted  his,  so  his  righteousness  was  accounted 
ours;”  for  our  sins  were  never  so  accounted  Christ’s  as 
that  he  did  them.  4.  The  doctrine  involves  a fiction 
and  impossibility  inconsistent  with  the  divine  attributes. 
5.  The  acts  of  Christ  were  of  a loftier  character  than 
can  be  supposed  to  be  capable  of  being  the  acts  of  mere 
creatures.  G.  Finally,  and  fatally,  this  doctrine  Shifts 
the  meritorious  cause  of  man’s  justification  from  Christ’s  , 
“ obedience  unto  death”  to  Christ’s  active  obedience  to 
the  precepts  of  the  law.  I 


(II.)  The  opinion  of  Calvin  himself,  and  many  of  his 
followers,  adopted  also  by  some  Arminians.  It  differs 
from  the  first  in  not  separating  the  active  from  the  pas- 
sive righteousness  of  Christ,  for  such  a distinction  would 
have  been  inconsistent  with  Calvin’s  notion  that  justi- 
fication is  simply  the  remission  of  sms.  This  view  is 
adopted,  with  certain  modifications,  by  Arminians  and 
Wesley.  But  there  is  a slight  difference,  which  arises 
from  the  different  senses  in  which  the  word  imputation 
is  used : the  Arminian  employing  it  in  the  sense  of  ac- 
counting to  the  believer  the  benefit  of  Christ’s  right- 
eousness; the  Calvinist,  in  the  sense  of  reckoning  the 
righteousness  of  Christ  as  ours.  An  examination  of  the 
following  passages  will  show  that  this  latter  notion  has 
no  foundation  in  Scripture : Psa.  xxxii,  1 ; Jer.  xxiii,  6; 
Isa.  xlv,  24;  Rom.  iii,  21, 22;  1 Cor.  i,  30;  2 Cor.  v,  21; 
Rom.  v,  18, 19.  In  connection  with  this  last  text,  it  is 
sometimes  attempted  to  be  shown  that,  as  Adam’s  sin  is 
imputed  to  his  posterity,  so  Christ’s  obedience  is  impu- 
ted to  those  that  are  saved;  but  (Goodwin,  On  Justifi- 
cation), (1.)  The  Scripture  nowhere  affirms  either  the 
imputation  of  Adam’s  sin  to  his  posterity,  or  of  the  right- 
eousness of  Christ  to  those  that  believe.  (2.)  To  impute 
sin,  in  Scripture  phrase,  is  to  charge  the  guilt  of  sin 
upon  a man,  with  a purpose  to  punish  him  for  it.  And 
(3.)  as  to  the  imputation  of  Adam's  sin  to  his  posterity — 
if  by  it  is  meant  simply  that  the  guilt  of  Adam’s  sin  is 
charged  upon  his  whole  posterity,  let  it  pass;  but  if  the 
meaning  be  that  all  Adam’s  posterity  are  made,  by  this 
imputation,  formally  sinners,  then  the  Scriptures  do  not 
justify  it. 

(III.)  The  imputation  of faith  for  righteousness,  (a.) 
Proof  of  this  doctrine.,— 1.  It  is  expressly  taught  in 
Scripture  (Rom.iv,  3-24,  etc.);  nor  is  faith  used  in  these 
passages  by  metonymy  for  the  object  of  faith,  that  is, 
the  righteousness  of  Christ.  2.  The  testimony  of  the 
Church  to  this  doctrine  has  been  uniform  from  the  ear- 
liest ages — Tcrtullian,  Origen,  Justin  Martyr,  etc.,  down 
to  the  lGth  century. 

( b .)  Explanation  of  the  terms  of  the  proposition  that 
“faith  is  imputed  for  righteousness.”  1.  Righteousness. 
To  be  accounted  righteous  is,  in  the  style  of  the  apostle 
Paul,  to  he  justified,  where  there  has  been  personal  guilt. 
2.  Faith.  It  is  not  faith  generally  considered  that  is 
imputed  to  us  for  righteousness,  but  faith  (trust)  in  an 
atonement  offered  by  another  in  our  behalf.  3.  Impu- 
tation. The  non-imputation  of  sin  to  a sinner  is  ex- 
pressly called  “ the  imputation  of  righteousness  without 
works;”  the  imputation  of  righteousness  is,  then,  the 
non-punisliment  or  pardon  of  sin ; and  by  imputing  faith 
for  righteousness,  the  apostle  means  precisely  the  same 
thing. 

(c.)  The  objections  to  the  doctrine  of  the  imputation 
of  faith  for  righteousness  admit  of  easy  answer.  1.  The 
papists  err  in  taking  the  term  justification  to  signify 
the  making  men  morally  just.  2.  A second  objection  is, 
that  if  believing  is  imputed  for  righteousness,  then  jus- 
tification is  by  works,  or  by  somewhat  in  ourselves.  In 
this  objection,  the  term  works  is  used  in  an  equivocal 
sense.  3.  A third  objection  is,  that  this  doctrine  gives 
occasion  to  boasting.  But  (1.)  this  objection  lies  with 
equal  strength  against  the  doctrine  of  imputed  right- 
eousness. (2.)  The  faith  itself  is  the  gift  of  God.  (3.) 
The  blessings  which  follow  faith  are  given,  in  respect  to 
the  death  of  Christ.  (4.)  Paid  says  that  boasting  is  ex- 
cluded bv  the  law  of  faith. 

(IV.)  The  theologians  who  assert  the  extreme  doc- 
trine of  imputation  are  ably  answered  by  the  closing 
words  of  an  article  on  this  subject  in  Chambers’s  Cyclo- 
I peedia,  v,  529:  “To  impute  sin  is  to  deal  with  a man  as 
a sinner,  not  on  account  of  his  own  act,  or  at  least  not 
primarily  on  this  account,  but  on  account  of  the  act  of 
another;  and  to  impute  righteousness  is  to  deal  with 
man  as  righteous,  not  because  he  is  so,  but  on  account 
of  the  righteousness  of  Christ  reckoned  as  his,  and  re- 
ceived by  faith  alone.  The  act  of  another  stands  in 
both  cases  for  our  own  act,  and  we  are  adjudged — in  the 


IMRAH 


527 


INABILITY 


one  case  condemned,  in  the  other  acquitted — not  for 
what  we  ourselves  have  done,  but  for  what  another  has 
done  for  us. 

“ This  is  a fair  illustration  of  the  tyranny  which  tech- 
nical phrases  are  apt  to  exercise  in  theology  as  in  other 
things.  When  men  coin  an  imperfect  phrase  to  ex- 
press a spiritual  reality,  the  reality  is  apt  to  be  forgot- 
ten in  the  phrase,  and  men  play  with  the  latter  as  a 
logical  counter,  having  a force  and  meaning  of  its  own. 
Imputation  of  sin  and  imputation  of  righteousness  have 
in  this  way  come  to  represent  legal  or  pseudo-legal  pro- 
cesses in  theology,  through  the  working  out  of  the  mere 
legal  analogies  suggested  by  the  word.  But  the  true 
spiritual  reality  which  lies  behind  the  phrases  in  both 
cases  is  simple  enough.  Imputation  of  sin  is,  and  can 
be  nothing  else  than,  the  expression  of  the  spiritual  uni- 
ty of  Adam  and  his  race.  Adam  ‘ being  the  root  of  all 
mankind,’  the  stock  which  has  grown  from  this  root 
must  share  in  its  degeneracy.  The  law  of  spiritual  life, 
of  historical  continuity,  implies  this,  and  it  requires  no 
arbitrary  or  legal  process,  therefore,  to  account  for  the 
sinfulness  of  mankind  as  derived  from  a sinful  source. 
We  are  sinners  because  Adam  fell.  The  fountain  hav- 
ing become  polluted,  the  stream  is  polluted.  We  are 
involved  in  his  guilt,  and  could  not  help  being  so  by 
the  conditions  of  our  historical  existence ; but,  never- 
theless, his  sin  is  not  our  sin,  and  cannot,  in  the  strict 
sense,  be  imputed  to  us,  for  sin  is  essentially  voluntary 
in  every  case — an  act  of  self-will,  and  not  a mere  qual- 
ity of  nature;  and  my  sin,  therefore,  cannot  be  anoth- 
er’s, nor  another’s  mine.  In  the  same  manner,  the  high- 
est meaning  of  the  imputation  of  the  righteousness  of 
Christ  lies  in  the  spiritual  unity  of  the  believer  with 
Christ,  so  that  he  is  one  with  Christ,  and  Christ  one 
with  him,  and  in  a true  sense  he  becomes  a partaker  of 
the  divine  nature.  The  notion  of  legal  transference  is 
an  after-thought — the  invention  of  polemical  logic — and 
the  fact  itself  is  deeper  and  truer  than  the  phrase  that 
covers  it.  The  race  one  with  Adam. , the  believer  one 
with  Christ,  arc  the  ideas  that  are  really  true  in  the 
phrases  imputation  of  sin  and  imputation  oj  righteous- 
ness.” 

See  Watson,  Institutes,  ii,  215,  241 ; Knapp,  Theology , 
§ 76,  115;  Whitby,  De  imputation e Peccati  Adaniitici; 
Taylor,  Doctrine  of  Original  Sin ; Wesley,  Sermons,  i, 
171-4 ; Edwards,  On  original  Sin ; Walch,  De  Obedientia 
Christ i Activa  (Gottingen,  1754,  4to) ; Walch,  Keueste 
Religionsgeschichte , iii,  311;  Princeton  Rev.  April,  1860; 
Baird,  The  First  and  Second  A dam  (Philadelphia,  1860, 
12mo) ; Princeton  Repertory,  1830,p.  425  ; Whately,  Dif- 
jiculties  oj  St.  Paul,  Essay  vi ; Stuart,  On  Romans , Ex- 
cursus v,  vi.  See  also  the  articles  Obedience  of 
Christ;  Justification. 

Im'rah  (Heb.  Yimrah',  it‘V'27,  refractoriness ; Sept, 
’lsgoct),  one  of  the  sons  ot  Zophah,  of  the  tribe  of  Asher 
(1  Cilrron.  vii,  36).  B.C.  post  1612.  See  Hotham. 

Im'ri  (Heb.  Imri',  eloquent),  the  name  of  two 

men. 

1.  (Sept,  omits  either  this  or  the  preced.  name,  giv- 
ing only  ’Afipi;  Vulg.  Omrafy.  The  son  of  Bani,  and 
father  of  Omri  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  ix,  4).  B.C.  much 
ante  536. 

2.  (Sept.  ’Ag«pi',Vulg.  Amri).  The  “father”  of  Zac- 
ciu,  which  latter  repaired  part  of  the  walls  of  Jerusalem 
after  the  Exile  (Nell,  iii,  2).  B.C.  ante  446. 

Ina,  king  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  kingdom  of  Wessex 
from  689  to  729,  celebrated  as  the  principal  legislator  of 
th«  Anglo-Saxons,  deserves  mention  here  on  account  of 
his  enactments  in  favor  of  religious  observances.  He 
was  the  lirst  in  that  portion  of  England  who  made  the 
laws  of  Christianity  the  basis  of  all  civil  and  social  re- 
lations. Particular  regard  was  paid  to  the  observance 
of  the  Sabbath  day ; the  rite  of  baptism  was  ordered  to 
be  performed  on  infants  within  thirty  days  after  their 
birth,  etc.  His  relation  with  the  see  of  Borne  was  very 
intimate.  He  made  several  journeys  to  the  Eternal 


City,  and  originated  in  his  dominions  the  payment  of 
the  annual  tribute  of  the  “ Peter’s  pence.”  See  Biddle, 
Ilist.  of  the  Papacy,  i,  310;  Baxter,  Ch.  Ilist.  p.  93  sq. 

(J.  II. W.) 

Inability,  in  theology,  is  generally  used  to  denote 
want  of  power  to  do  the  will  of  God.  It  is  natural  ina- 
bility when  the  hinderance  is  physical;  moral  inability 
when  the  hinderance  lies  in  the  wrill.  This  distinction 
has  special  prominence  in  American  theology,  and  has 
been  the  subject  of  a great  deal  of  controversy  between 
New-scliool  and  Old-school  Calvinists,  and  also  between 
Calvinists  and  Arminians.  The  New-school  contend 
that  man  is  naturally  able  to  obey  God,  but  morally  un- 
able. The  Old-school  deny  both  natural  and  moral 
ability.  Tlic  Arminians  deny  natural  and  moral,  but 
assert  gracious  ability  on  tlie  part  of  man  to  accept 
Christ,  and  so  to  obey  God. 

The  following  paragraphs  present  well  the  Old-school 
view  of  the  subject.  “ It  has  long  been  a boast,  in  cer- 
tain quarters,  that  it  is  the  glory  of  American  theology 
that  it  has  enabled  us  to  hold  fast  to  the  doctrine  of  in- 
ability, and  yet  so  to  explain  it  as  to  make  the  sinner 
inexcusable,  and  to  prevent  him  from  abusing  it  to  pur- 
poses of  carnal  apathy  and  desperation.  This  happy 
result,  which  the  Bible  ascribes  to  the  Iloly  Ghost,  is 
supposed  to  be  accomplished  by  showing  men  that  they 
have  full  natural  ability  to  fulfil  God’s  requirements; 
that  they  have  no  inability,  but  simply  a want  of  will, 
or  purpose,  or  inclination,  to  obey  the  Gospel,  which 
they  have  full  power  to  remove,  if  they  will.  While 
this  language  is  used  by  many  in  a sense  which,  as  ex- 
plained by  themselves,  at  all  events  coheres  with  the 
doctrine  that  man  has  lost  all  ability  of  will  to  any  spir- 
itual good  accompanying  salvation,  it  is  used  by  others 
to  express  and  vindicate  the  dogma  that  men  are  per- 
fectly able  to  make  themselves  Christians  at  pleasure. 
This  is  Pelagianism,  without  even  a decent  disguise. 
Yet  it  is  this  very  class  who  make  the  most  of  the  dis- 
tinction in  question.  They  think  it  a convenient  and 
safe  shelter  for  their  doctrines  that  man  can  make  him- 
self a new  heart.  This  class  claim  that.  Edwards  was 
the  inventor  of  this  distinction;  that  it  is  the  distin- 
guishing characteristic  and  special  property  of  his  fol- 
lowers; that  therefore  they  are  the  true  Edwardeans, 
because  they  are  the  patrons  and  inheritors  of  this  his 
grand  discovery  in  theology.  It  can  easily  be  shown, 
however,  1.  That  whatever  of  truth  is  connected  with 
this  distinction  was  familiar  to  theologians  not  only  be- 
fore the  time  of  Edwards,  but  from  the  time  when  the 
heresies  of  Felagins  first  occasioned  thorough  discussion 
of  the  subject  of  sin  and  grace.  2.  That  Edwards  did 
not  regard  himself  as  introducing  any  novel  doctrines 
or  discoveries  on  the  subject.  A formerly  distinguished 
champion  of  New-school  doctrines  recently  said  in  a 
public  speech,  with  great  truth, ‘that  the  common  idea 
that  the  power  of  Edwards’s  system  lies  in  the  distinc- 
tion of  natural  and  moral  ability  is  a fallacy.  This  was 
well  understood  before  his  day.  It  lies  in  his  views  ol‘ 
spiritual  light,  which  constitute  the  key  to  his  whole 
treatise  on  the  Beligious  Affections.’  All  who  have 
read  this  treatise,  or  his  sermons  on  the  ‘ Natural  Blind- 
ness of  Men  iii  Religion,’  and  on  ‘The  Reality  of  .Spirit- 
ual Light,’  must  concede  the  justness  of  this  statement. 
The  great  principle  of  his  work  on  the  Affections  is  that 
‘they  arise  from  divine  illumination.’  The  amount  of 
truth  contained  in  the  proposition  that  man  is  naturally 
able,  but  morally  finable,  to  obey  God’s  commands,  may 
be  thus  stated:  1.  Man  is  really  unable  to  do  things 
spiritually  good  without  divine  grace.  But  this  inabil- 
ity is  moral,  because  it  pertains  to  our  moral  nature.  It 
does  not  excise,  because  it  is  our  sin;  and  the  greater  it 
is,  the  greater  is  our  sin.  2.  This  corruption  and  inabil- 
ity do  not  destroy  any  of  the  facidties  of  will,  afiectiqn, 
or  intelligence,  which  are  essential  to  humanity,  moral 
agency,  or  responsibilit}'.  They  only  vitiate  the  state 
and  action  of  those  faculties  with  reference  to  things 
moral  and  spiritual.  All  power  remains  which  would 


INABILITY 


528 


INCANTATION 


be  requisite  to  the  fulfilment  of  God's  commands  if  we 
were  holy.  Any  liinderance,  or  want  of  power  or  op- 
portunity, which  woidd  prevent  us  from  fulfilling  any 
command  of  God  if  we  were  morally  good,  excuses  the 
non-performance  of  it,  and  this  alone.  So  far,  then,  as 
the  assertion  that  we  have  natural  ability  is  intended 
to  express  the  fact  that  we  have  no  disability  but  our 
sin,  or  that  is  excusable,  it  expresses  an  important  truth. 
So  far  as  it  is  used,  or  is  adapted  to  convey  the  idea 
that  we  have  ability  to  remove  our  sinful  corruption 
without  the  prevenient  and  efficacious  grace  of  God,  or 
that  our  inability,  though  moral,  is  such  that  we  can 
resume  it  by  the  strength  of  our  own  will,  or  that  it  is 
not  by  nature,  it  contains  a dangerous  error.  Tt  is  not 
only  contrary  to  Scripture  and  all  Christian  experience, 
but  it  is  inconceivable  that  any  state  or  act  of  the  un- 
regenerate will  of  man  should  make  him  a holy  being. 
The  corrupt  tree  cannot  bring  forth  such  good  fruit. 
Kay,  as  all  Christians  find  to  their  sorrow,  they  cannot, 
although  partially  sanctified,  by  any  power  of  their 
wills,  exclude  all  corruption  from  their  souls.  The  flesh 
lusteth  against  the  spirit,  so  that  they  cannot  do  the 
things  that  they  would.  When  they  tcould  do  good, 
evil  is  present  with  them.  Though  they  love  the  law 
of  God  after  the  inward  man,  they  have  a law  in  their 
members  warring  against  the  law  of  their  minds.  How, 
then,  is  this  indwelling  corruption,  having  the  entire 
mastery  of  the  sinner,  removable  by  his  will?  And 
does  the  phrase  ‘natural  ability,’  according  to  its  nat- 
ural import,  fairly  express,  or,  rather,  does  it  not  express 
more  than  the  truth,  in  regard  to  the  power  of  the  sin- 
ner? Is  it  not,  unless  carefully  explained,  adapted  to 
mislead  him?  That  cannot  properly  be  called  ability 
to  do  things  spiritually  gcod,  to  purify  our  corrupt  na- 
tures, which  is  not  adequate  to  produce  the  result.  Man 
lias  not  such  an  ability,  whatever  adjectives  we  affix  to 
the  word.  He  has  only  the  faculties  which  would  ena- 
able  him  to  do  his  duty  if  he  were  holy.  Is  it  not  best, 
in  plain  terms,  to  sajr  so?  Have  we  a right  to  do  oth- 
erwise than  speak  the  truth  in  love?’” — Princeton  Re- 
view, July,  1854,  No.  x,  p.  512  sq. 

The  Arminian  doctrine  is  (1)  that  the  nnregenerate 
have  complete  ability,  through  the  efficient  grace  of 
Christ,  to  comply  with  the  conditions  of  justification  as 
offered  under  the  covenant  of  grace ; (2)  that  the  regen- 
erate have  ability,  through  the  grace  of  Christ,  to  do 
the  will  of  God,  i.  e.  to  avoid  voluntary  transgression 
thereof.  The  following  criticism  of  the  Arminian  view, 
by  an  eminent  New-England  divine,  with  a comment 
on  it,  is  taken  from  the  Christum  Advocate,  Dec.  15, 
1859.  The  parts  in  brackets  are  added  by  the  commen- 
tator. “The  Arminian  theory  of  man’s  inability  or 
want  of  power  is  the  same  [as  the  Cal vini Stic],  except- 
ing a vain  attempt  to  conceal  its  revolting  aspect  by 
the  still  greater  absurdity  of  what  is  called  a gracious 
ability.  The  advoeates  of  this  theory  plainly  subvert 
and  virtually  deny  the  grace  of  God  in  their  very  at- 
tempt to  magnify  it ; for  if  man  has  not  ability  or  pow- 
er to  obey  God  without  grace  [divine  operation,  or  ‘ fa- 
vor to  sinners’],  then  he  does  not  sin  in  not  obeying, 
since  a being  who  cannot  act  morally  right  cannot  act 
morally  wrong.  Such  a being  cannot  be  truly  said  to 
receive  or  to  be  capable  of  receiving  grace,  for  grace  is 
favor  to  sinners.  Besides,  what  does  the  supposed  grace 
of  God  [here  evidently  in  the  sense  of  divine  efficiency] 
do?  Does  it  give  man  power  to  obey  ? then  man  has 
power  to  obey,  as  he  must  have  before  he  obeys.  But 
even  this  is  no  security  that  he  will  obey.  [What 
Arminian  ever  pretended  that  it  is?]  Adam  sinned 
with  this  power.  The  grace  [exercise  of  divine  effi- 
ciency], then,  does  not  meet  the  exigency  of  the  case. 
[Is  invariable  obedience  essential,  then,  to  a proper  hu- 
man ability?  In  that  ease,  what  would  become  of  Dr. 
Taylor’s  own  theory?]  Is  it  said  he  has  power  to  use 
the  grace  [-what  does  the  word  mean  here?]  furnished? 
But  what  power  is  this?  Until  man  has  power  to  obey, 
it  is  absolutely  inconceivable  that  he  should  obey,  for 


the  act  of  obedience  is  his  own  act,  done  in  the  exercise 
of  his  own  power  to  obey.  Thus  the  grace  of  God  [the 
Holy  Ghost],  according  to  this  scheme,  must,  by  a di- 
rect act  of  creation,  impart  some  new  essential  mental 
faculty  or  power  to  the  soul  of  man  to  qualify  it  to  act 
morally  right  or  wrong.  Without  the  grace  of  God 
man  has  not  a human  soul,  for  he  has  not  the  true  and 
essential  nature  of  such  a soul — the  power  requisite  to 
moral  action.  [We  have  been  wont  to  think  of  ‘pow- 
er’ as  an  attribute,  not  as  a ‘nature.']  He  cannot  be  a 
sinner,  and  of  course  grace  to  him  cannot  be  grace  to  a 
sinner.  Grace  is  no  more  grace”  (Taylor,  Lectures  on 
the  Moral  Goi'emment  of  God,  ii,  123).  The  comment  is 
as  follows:  “In  the  first  place,  Dr.  Taylor  falsely  repre- 
sents the  Arminian  as  asserting  the  gracious  ability  of 
man,  in  general  terms,  to  keep  the  divine  law,  whereas 
we  only  affirm  this  of  the  regenerate.  In  the  second 
place,  he  continually  shuffles  in  his  use  of  the  term 
grace,  as  will  be  seen  by  our  bracketed  insertions  of 
equivalents,  wherever  the  context  fixes  the  sense.  In 
the  third  place,  we  see  no  possible  relevancy  in  his  ar- 
gument against  a divinely  imparted  ‘power  to  obey,’ 
from  the  fact  that  the  possession  of  this  power  does  not 
insure  its  invariable  exercise  any  more  than  it  did  in 
Adam’s  case.  If  the  professor  had  inferred  the  impos- 
sibility of  our  theory  of  ability  from  the  conceded  fact 
that  the  earth  revolves  upon  its  axis,  we  should  not 
have  been  more  at  loss  to  perceive  the  pertinency  or 
logical  force  of  the  reasoning.  Finally,  he  forgets  that 
in  the  economy  of  redemption,  ‘ ability  to  use  grace'  is 
an  ‘ ability  to  obey.'  God’s  prime  requirement  of  a sin- 
ner is  repentance  and  return  to  service ; and  in  the  ar- 
rangements of  the  remedial  scheme  under  which  we 
live,  the  sinner  possesses  a complete,  tliongh  not  a con- 
stitutional and  independent  ‘ability  to  obey’  this  re- 
quirement.” For  the  New-England  view,  see  New- 
Englaxd  Theology.  See  also  the  articles  Armtn- 
i ax  ism  ; Pelagiaxism;  Grace.  For  a full  discussion 
of  the  New-school  theory,  see  Hodgson,  New  Divinity 
Examined  (N.  Y.  12mo) ; Princeton  Review,  July,  1854. 
See  also  Amer.  Presb.  Rev.  Jan.  1801 ; Bib.  Sacra,  1863, 
p.  324  sq.,  608  sq. ; 1865,  p.  503 ; Meth.  Quart.  Rev.  xlix, 
263 ; 1868,  p.  610 ; British  Quart.  Rev.  July,  1867 ; New 
Englander,  1868,  p.  486,  490,  496-9,  511,  553. 

In  antis,  a term  for  a temple  which  has  upon  the 
facade  two  columns,  detached,  standing  between  two 
antce  that  terminate  the  side  walls  of  it.  Specimens 
are  the  temples  at  Rhamnus  and  Sunium. — Brande  and 
Cox,  Diet,  of  Science,  Lit.  and  A rt,  ii,  200. 

Incantation  (Lat .incantatio;  incanto,  to  chant  a 
magic  formula,  compound  of  in,  intensive,  and  canto,  to 
sing)  denotes  “one  of  the  most  powerful  and  awe-in- 
spiring modes  of  magic  (q.  v.),  viz.,  that  resting  on  a 
belief  in  the  mysterious  power  of  words  solemnly  con- 
ceived and  passionately  uttered.”  “There  is  in  the  hu- 
man voice,  especially  in  it's  more  lofty  tones,  an  actual 
power  of  a very  wonderful  kind  to  stir  men’s  hearts. 
\\Tien  to  this  we  add  that  poetic  utterance  is  a special 
and  exceptional  gift;  that  the  language  of  primitive 
nations  is  crude  and  unmanageable,  the  words  being  as 
difficult  to  weld  together  as  pieces  of  cast  iron ; that  it 
is  only  when  the  poet’s  mind  has  risen  to  unusual  heat 
that  he  can  fuse  them  into  those  rhythmical  sequences 
that  please  the  ear  and  hang  together  in  the  memorv; 
that,  in  short,  his  art  is  a mystery  to  himself— an  inspi- 
ration— we  need  not  wonder  at  the  feeling  with  which 
everything  in  the  form  of  verse  or  metre  was  viewed. 
The  singing  or  saying  of  such  compositions  which  could 
thus  stir  the  blood  of  the  hearers  they  knew  not  how, 
what  other  effects  might  it  not  produce?”  To  the 
power  which  the  superstitious  belief  of  the  people,  up 
to  and  even  through  the  Middle  Ages,  gave  to  incanta- 
tions, especially  when  accompanied,  as  they  generally 
were,  with  the  concocting  of  drugs  and  other  magical 
rites,  there  is  hardly  any  end.  “They  could  heal  or 
kill.  If  they  could  not  raise  from  the  dead,  they  could 
make  the  dead  speak,  or  ‘ call  up  spirits  from  the  vasty 


INCAPACITY 


529 


INCARNATION 


deep’  in  order  to  unveil  the  future.  They  could  extin- 
guish lire ; darken  the  sun  or  moon ; make  fetters  hurst, 
a door  or  a mountain  fly  open ; blunt  a sword ; make  a 
limb  powerless-,  destroy  a crop,  or  charm  it  away  into 
another’s  barn.”  It  is  especially  the  heathenish  nations 
that  in  their  prayers,  whether  for  blessings  or  for  curses, 
partake  largely  of  the  nature  of  magical  incantations. 
“ They  are  not  supposed  to  act  as  petitions  addressed  to 
a free  agent,  but  by  an  inherent  force  which  even  the 
gods  cannot  resist.  This  is  very  marked  in  Hinduism 
and  Buddhism,  but  it  actually  pervades  all  superstitious 
worship,  though  sometimes  quite  disguised.  ‘They 
think  they  shall  be  heard  for  their  much  speaking.’ 
For  almost  every  occasion  or  operation  of  life  there 
were  appropriate  formulas  to  be  repeated  in  order  to  se- 
cure success ; and  many  of  these,  with  that  reverence 
for  antiquity  and  conservative  tendency  which  always 
characterize  superstition,  continue  to  live  in  popular 
memory,  although  often  the  words  are  so  old  as  to  he 
unintelligible.  Thus,  among  the  Homans,  in  the  days 
of  Cato,  incantations  were  common  for  curing  disloca- 
tions, full  of  words  the  meaning  of  which  had  been  lost. 
A form  of  words  used  to  this  day  in  Shetland  for  healing 
a sprain  can  be  traced  back  to  the  10th  century.  In  its 
earliest  form,  as  found  in  an  old  German  manuscript,  it 
narrates  how  their  native  gods,  Woden  and  Baldur,  rid- 
ing out  to  hunt,  Baldur’s  horse  dislocated  its  foot,  and 
how  Woden,  using  charmed  words,  set  bone  to  bone,  etc., 
and  so  healed  the  foot.  The  repetition  of  this  rhymed 
narration  acted  as  a charm  to  heal  other  lamed  horses. 
A modem  version  of  this  tradition,  current  in  Norway 
even  in  our  day,  makes  the  accident  happen  to  the 
horse  of  Jesus,  and  Jesus  himself  perform  the  cure— in 
Shetland,  also,  the  Lord  (Jesus)  is  substituted  for  Wo- 
den ; and  the  formula  is  applied  to  the  healing  of  per- 
sons’ limbs  as  well  as  those  of  horses.  The  operation 
is  thus  described  in  K.  Chambers’s  Popular  Rhymes  of 
Scotland : ‘When  a person  has  received  a sprain,  it  is 
customary  to  apply  to  an  individual  practiced  in  cast- 
ing the  “ wresting-thread.”  This  is  a thread  spun  from 
black  wool,  on  which  are  cast  nine  knots,  and  tied  round 
a sprained  leg  or  arm.  During  the  time  the  operator  is 
putting  the  thread  round  the  affected  limb,  he  says,  but 
in  such  a tone  of  voice  as  not  to  he  heard  by  the  by- 
standers, nor  even  by  the  person  operated  upon : 

“ ‘Our  Lord  rade, 

His  foal’s  foot  siade  ; 

Down  he  lighted, 

His  foal’s  foot  righted. 

Bone  to  bone, 

Sinew  to  sinew, 

Blood  to  blood, 

Flesh  to  flesh. 

Heal,  in  name  of  the  Father,  Son,  and  noly  Ghost.’” 
— Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  530-531.  See  Magic;  Witch- 
craft. 

Incapacity,  in  the  ecclesiastical  sense,  is  absolute 
unfitness  for  ordination.  Thus  women  (Gen.  iii,  16;  1 
Tim.  ii,  12 ; 1 Cor.  xiv,  31,  35)  and  unbaptized  persons 
are  incapacitated  from  ordination.  Baptism  is  essential 
to  church  membership,  and  therefore  the  basis  of  further 
advancement  in  the  Church : “Cum  baptism  us  sit  funda- 
mentum  omnium  sacramentorum  ante  susceptionem  bap- 
tismi  non  suscipiatur  aliud  sacramentum”  (c.  60,  can.  i, 
qu.  i,  Capit.  Theodori  Canterb.) ; also  c.  1,  x,  lie  presby- 
tero  non  baptizato  (iii,  43) ; c.  3,  x,  eod.  (Innocent  III  a. 
1206) ; c.  2, 1)e  coynatione  spirituali  in  vi  (iv,3)  Bonifacii 
VIII.  So  the  early  Church  declared  that  he  who  has 
not  received  in  due  form  the  baptism  of  water  is  not  a 
member  of  the  visible  church,  and  cannot  therefore  be 
ordained.  The  Council  of  Nicaea,  A.D.  325,  in  c.  19  (c. 
52,  can.  i,  qu.  i),  directs  that  the  clergy  of  the  Paulinists 
(who  did  not  perform  baptism  regularly)  and  of  other 
sects  were  to  be  rebaptized  and  ordained  on  their  return 
to  the  Catholic  Church,  and  that  such  persons  as  had 
been  previously  ordained,  but  not  baptized,  should  at 
once  receive  baptism,  and  then  be  reordained  (c.  112, 
dist.  i v,  Be  consecr.  [ Leo  a.  458  ] ; c.  60,  can.  i,  qu.  i ; comp. 
IV.— L l 


Capit.  lib.  vi,  c.  94,  and  other  quoted  passages),  although, 
according  to  the  decision  of  pope  Innocent  II  (c.  2,  x,  Be 
presb.non  bapt.;  c.34, 151, dist. iv,  Be  consecr.),  the  subor- 
dination of  a baptized  priest  ordained  by  an  unbaptized 
did  not  necessarily  follow-.  See  Irregularity. 

The  incapacity  of  women  for  ordination  wras  believed 
to  be  so  fully  authorized  by  the  passages  above  cited 
from  the  Bible  that  it  was  never  questioned  by  the 
Church.  God  had  made  woman  subject  to  the  rule  of 
man;  she  coidd  therefore  not  instruct  a congregation 
likely  to  be  composed  also  of  men  (Cone.  Carthag.  iv,  a. 
378,  c.  36  in  c.  29 ; dist.  xxiii,  c.  20 ; dist.  iv,  Be  consecr.). 
It  is  from  this  point  of  view  that  Tertullian  regards  this 
question  when  he  says  (Be  velandis  virginibus,  c.  8) : 
“Non  permittitur  mulieri  in  ecclesia  loqui,  sed  non  do- 
cere,  nec  tingere,  nec  offerre,  nec  allius  virilis  muneris 
nedum  sacerdotalis  ofRciis  sortem  ubi  vindicare.”  In  a 
like  strain  argue  Augustine  (c.  xvii,  can.  xxxiii,  qu.  v) 
and  others.  The  early  Church  therefore  declared  that 
no  woman  should  be  ordained  presbytera  (vidua)  ( Corn \ 
Laodic.  a.  372,  c.  11  in  c.  19,  dist.  xxxii),  nor  (liacona,  or 
diaconissa  (Concil.  Arausicanum  i,  a.  441,  can.  xxvi ; 
Epaonense,  a.  517,  can.  xxi ; Aurelianense  ii,  a.  533,  can. 
xviii  [ed.  Brunc.  ii,  126,  170, 187]  ; compare  c.  23,  can. 
xxvii,  qu.  i,  Novella  Justiniani  vi,  cap.  5) ; though  edu- 
cated and  pious,  they  are  not  to  teach  in  the  congrega- 
tions (Cone.  Carthag.  iv,  a.  378,  c.  36  in  c.  29,  dist.  xxiii; 
c.  20,  dist.  iv,  Be  consecr.).  Abbesses  vrere  not  to  bless 
the  nuns,  to  hear  confessions,  or  to  preach  in  public  (c. 
10,  x,  Be  pcenit.  et  remiss.  [ v,  38]  Innocent  III  a.  1210). 

The  Evangelical  Church  teaches  the  necessity  of  bap- 
tism (Augsb.  Conf.  art.  ix,  etc.),  and  also  that  “ the  fe- 
male sex  was  not  ordained  by  God  to  rule,  either  in  the 
Church,  or  in  secular  positions  where  a specially  strong 
understanding  and  good  counsel  are  requisite.  But  they 
are  ordered  to  take  care  of  their  household,  and  to  see 
after  it  diligently’’  (Luther,  in  Walch’s  Werke,  ii,  1006). 
The  ground  which  the  Reformers  took  on  this  question 
was  up  to  our  day  approved  by  the  Protestant  churches 
at  large.  Among  the  Friends,  however,  no  such  dis- 
tinction has  ever  been  recognised.  Indeed,  the  ten- 
dency of  the  present  age  is  to  abolish  the  rule  alto- 
gether, and  females  in  several  instances  have  actually 
been  installed  as  pastors  in  this  country,  while  in  other 
cases  their  ability  in  the  pulpit  has  been  freely  acknowl- 
edged even  among  evangelical  denominations.  Yet  even 
this  hardly  satisfies  the  advocates  of  “ women’s  rights” 
(q.  v.).  See  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  647.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Incardinare,  in  the  language  of  the  Church  of  the 
Middle  Ages,  is  the  appointment  of  any  strange  bishop, 
presbyter,  deacon,  or  a person  of  some  other  class  of  the 
priesthood,  to  this  or  that  church,  in  which  he  was  to 
perform  services  in  part  or  exclusively,  or  even  the  ap- 
pointment to  one  particidar  church.  The  election  of  a 
cardinal  was  also  called  incardinare. — Fuhrmann,  Iland- 
Tcorterbuch  d.  Kirchengesch,  ii,  435. 

Incardinati  clenci,  fugitive  or  foreign  priests 
appointed  to  a church,  in  contrast  with  the  appointment 
of  a native  and  regular  priest. — Pierer,  Universal  Lex- 
icon, viii,  840. 

Incarnation  (Lat.  in,  and  caro,  flesh),  the  perma- 
nent assumption  of  a human  form  by  a divine  personage. 

I.  False  or  Pretended  Incarnations  of  Heathen  Re- 
ligions.— The  mythologies  of  most  nations  afford  traces, 
although  faint,  of  the  idea  of  incarnation.  If,  as  Vinet 
has  suggested,  there  can  be  no  religion  without  an  in- 
carnation, the  pseudo-incarnations  of  false  religions  may 
be  regarded  as  so  many  gropings  for  the  truth,  “ if  haply 
they  might  feel  after  him”  who  at  some  time  should  be- 
come incarnate.  These  incarnations  express  the  deepest 
need  of  our  common  nature.  Sin  has  so  isolated  man 
j from  God  that  he  feels  there  is  no  hope  of  his  restora- 
tion except  “the  gods  come  dowm  in  the  likeness  of 
men.”  This  idea  confronts  us  from  all  parts  of  the  world, 
wrhether  in  the  avatars  of  the  Hindi!,  the  election  and 
worship  of  the  Lama  of  Thibet,  the  metamorphoses  of 


INCARNATION 


530 


INCARNATION 


the  Greek  and  Roman  mythologies,  or  the  wilder  wor- 
ship of  the  aborigines  of  America.  The  earlier  Chris- 
tian apologists  attributed  these  caricatures  of  the  true 
incarnation  to  Satan,  and  alleged  that  “he  invented 
these  fables  by  imitating  the  truth.”  Neander  makes 
the  profound  suggestion  that  “ at  the  bottom  of  these 
myths  is  the  earnest  desire,  inseparable  from  man’s  spir- 
it, for  participation  in  the  divine  nature  as  its  true  life — 
its  anxious  longing  to  pass  the  gulf  which  separates  the 
God-derived  soul  from  its  original  — its  wish,  even 
though  unconscious,  to  secure  that  union  with  God 
which  alone  can  renew  human  nature,  and  which  Chris- 
tianity shows  us  as  a living  reality.  Nor  can  we  be 
astonished  to  find  the  facts  of  Christianity  thus  antici- 
pated in  poetic  forms  (embodying  in  imaginative  crea- 
tions the  innate  yet  indistinct  cravings  of  the  spirit)  in 
the  mythical  elements  of  the  old  religions,  when  we  re- 
member that  human  nature  itself,  and  all  the  forms  of 
its  development,  as  well  as  the  whole  course  of  human 
history,  were  intended  by  God  to  find  their  full  accom- 
plishment in  Christ”  ( Life  of  Christ , chap,  ii,  sec.  12). 
The  want  that  thus  expresses  itself  in  these  fabled  ava- 
tars lies  at  the  foundation  of  idolatry.  The  unsatisfied 
nature  of  man  demands  that  his  Deity  should  be  near 
him — should  dwell  with  him.  it  first  leads  him  to  rep- 
resent the  Deity  by  the  work  of  his  own  hands,  and 
then  to  worship  it  (see  Tholuck,  Predigten,  ii,  148).  Or 
we  may  look  upon  these  avatars  as  so  many  faint  and 
distant  irradiations  of  the  holy  light  that  shone  upon 
the  Garden  through  the  first  promise  given  to  man. 
On  the  contrary,  Kitto  denies  “ that  there  is  in  Eastern 
mythology  any  incarnation  in  any  sense  approaching 
that  of  the  Christian,  and  that  least  of  all  is  there  any 
where  it  has  been  most  insisted  on”  ( Daily  Bible  llliist. 
on  John  i,  14).  Cocker,  in  his  late  work  (Christianity 
and  Greek  Philosophy,  N.  Y.  1870,  8vo,  p.  512),  advances 
the  theory  that  the  idea  of  “a  pure  spiritual  essence, 
without  form  and  without  emotion,  pervading  all  and 
transcending  all,  is  too  vague  and  abstract  to  yield  us 
comfort,”  and  that  therefore  the  need  of  an  incarnation 
“ became  consciously  or  unconsciously  ‘ the  desire  of  na- 
tions' ” by  “ the  education  of  the  race”  and  “ by  the 
dispensation  of  philosophy.  . . . The  idea  of  an  incar- 
nation was  not  unfamiliar  to  human  thought,  it  teas  no 
new  or  strange  idea  to  the  heathen  mind.  The  number- 
less metamorphoses  of  Grecian  mythology,  the  incarna- 
tions of  Brahma,  the  avatars  of  Vishnu,  and  the  human 
form  of  Krishna,  had  naturalized  the  thought  (Young, 
Christ  of  History,  p.  248).”  See  Domer,  Lehre  r.  der 
Person  Christi,  i,  7 sq. ; Biblioth.  Sacra,  ix,  250;  "Weber, 
Indische  Studien,  ii,  411  sq. 

Among  the  ancient  Egyptians,  Apis  or  Jfapi,  “the 
living  bull,”  was  esteemed  to  be  the  emblem  and  image 
of  the  soul  of  Osiris,  who,  as  Pliny  and  Cicero  say,  was 
deemed  a god  by  the  Egyptians.  “Diodorus  derives 
the  worship  of  Apis  from  a belief  that  the  soul  of  Osiris 
had  migrated  into  this  animal;  and  he  was  thus  sup- 
posed to  manifest  himself  to  man  through  successive 
ages;”  while  Strabo  calls  “Apis  the  same  as  Osiris” 
(Wilkinson,  Anc.  Egypt,  abridgm.  i,  290,  291).  “About 
the  time  when  Cambyses  arrived  at  Memphis,  Apis  ap- 
peared to  the  Egyptians.”  Their  great  rejoicings  led 
that  prince  to  examine  the  officers  who  had  charge  of 
Memphis.  These  responded  “that  one  of  their  gods 
had  appeared  to  them — a god  who,  at  long  intervals  of 
time,  had  been  accustomed  to  show  himself  in  Egypt” 
(Herod,  iii,  27).  Mnevis,  the  sacred  bull  of  Heliopolis, 
was  also  a representative  of  Osiris,  and  with  Apis,  the 
sacred  bull  of  • Memphis,  was  worshipped  as  a god 
throughout  the  whole  of  Egvpt.  Ammianus  says  that 
Mnevis  was  sacred  to  the  sun,  while  Apis  was  sacred  to 
the  moon  (see  Rawlinson’s  Herod,  ii,  854,  Engl,  edition). 
Hardwick,  however,  adduces  Wilkinson  as  regarding  it 
“ a merit  of  the  old  Egyptians  that  they  did  not  human- 
ize tlieir  gods;  and  yet  he  admits  that  their  fault  was 
rather  the  elevation  of  animals  and  emblems  to  the 
tank  of  deities.”  Hardwick  denies  that  the  idea  of  in- 


carnation is  to  be  found  in  the  old  Egyptian  creed 
(Christ  and  other  Masters,  ii,  351).  See  Apis. 

The  mythology  of  the  Hindus  presents  a vast  variety 
of  incarnations,  the  inferior  avatars  that  have  appear- 
ed in  various  ages  being  innumerable.  The  object  of 
the  avatar  is  declared  by  Vishnu  himself,  who,  in  the 
form  of  Krishna,  thus  addresses  Arjima:  “Both  I and 
thou  have  passed  many  births ; mine  are.  known  to  me, 
but  thou  knowest  not  thine.  Although  I am  not  in  my 
nature  subject  to  birth  or  decay,  and  am  the  lord  of  all 
created  beings,  yet,  having  command  over  my  own  na- 
ture, I am  made  evident  by  my  own  power ; and  as  often 
as  there  is  a decline  of  virtue,  and  an  insurrection  of 
vice  and  injustice  in  the  world,  I make  myself  evident. 
Thus  I appear  from  age  to  age  for  the  preservation  of 
the  just,  the  destruction  of  the  wicked,  and  the  estab- 
lishment of  virtue”  (Bhagavad-Gita,  p.  40).  With  this 
declaration  accord,  for  the  most  part,  the  objects  of  the 
ten  more  conspicuous  avatars  of  this  deity,  although 
the  details  of  them  abound  in  puerilities  and  obscenity. 
In  the  Matsya,  or  Fish  avatar,  Vishnu  took  the  form  of 
a human  being  issuing  from  the  body  of  a fish,  for  the 
recovery  of  the  sacred  books  which  had  been  stolen 
from  Brahma  by  the  diemon  Hayagriva.  The  Kurma, 
or  Tortoise  avatar,  supported  the  earth  sinking  in  the 
waters.  The  prayer  of  Brahma  for  assistance  when  the 
whole  earth  was  covered  with  water  called  forth  a third 
avatar  of  Vishnu,  that  of  the  Varaha,  or  Boar,  of  which 
Maurice  says,  “Using  the  practical  instinct  of  that  ani- 
mal, he  began  to  smell  around  that  he  might  discover 
the  place  where  the  earth  was  submerged.  At  length, 
having  divided  the  water  and  arriving  at  the  bottom, 
he  saw  the  earth  lying  a mighty  and  barren  stratum ; 
then  he  took  up  the  ponderous  globe  (freed  from  the 
water),  and  raised  it  high  on  his  tusk — one  would  say 
it  was  a beautifid  lotus  blossoming  on  the  tip  of  his 
tusk”  (Hist,  of  Hindostan,  i,  575  sq.).  There  can  be  but 
little  doubt  that  these  three  avatars  are  perversions  of 
the  Hindu  traditions  of  the  Deluge.  The  next  incar- 
nation burst  forth  from  a pillar  as  a man-lion  for  the 
purpose  of  destroying  a blaspheming  monarch.  The 
Variance,  or  Dwarf,  in  the  next  avatar,  rebuked  the 
pride  of  Maha  Bali,  the  great  Bali.  In  human  form 
the  divine  Parasurama,  in  twenty  pitched  battles,  ex- 
tirpated the  Kettri  tribe  to  prepare  for  the  Brahmin  the 
way  to  empire.  The  seventh  was  very  like  that  of  the 
preceding,  and  for  similar  objects.  Hama  Chandra,  how- 
ever, was  a great  reformer  and  legislator.  The  eighth, 
that  of  Krishna,  represents  the  Deity  in  human  form 
trampling  on  the  head  of  a serpent,  while  the  serpent  is 
biting  his  heel — a corruption  of  the  promise  to  Eve. 
One  object  of  the  ninth  incarnation,  that  of  Buddha,  is 
generally  admitted  to  have  been  the  abolition  of  san- 
guinary sacrifices.  Whatever  be  the  cause,  “ Buddhism 
stands  conspicuous  in  the  midst  of  heathendom  as  a re- 
ligion without  sacrificial  cultus.”  Upon  the  tenth,  the 
Kalki  avatar,  which  is  yet  to  take  place,  the  destruction 
of  the  universe  will  ensue  (see  Maurice,  Ilistoi'y  of  Hin- 
dostan, passim ; Hardwick,  i,  278 ; New  Englander,  iii, 
183-185).  For  the  astounding  events  connected  with 
the  birth  and  infancy  of  Gotama  (q.  v.),  see  Buddha. 
See  also  Hardy’s  Manual  of  Buddhism,  p.  140  sq.  Com- 
pare Avatar;  Hinduism. 

Lamaism  presents  many  features  in  common  with 
Buddhism,  so  much  so  that  it  may  be  considered  one  of 
its  outgrowths.  It  “differs  fundamentally  from  Chi- 
nese Buddhism  in  the  doctrine  of  hereditary  incarna- 
tions. The  great  thought  of  some  intelligence  issuing 
from  the  Buddha  world  assuming  the  conditions  of  our 
frail  humanity,  and  for  a time  presiding  over  some  one 
favored  group  of  Buddhist  monasteries,  had  long  been 
familiar  to  the  natives  of  Tibet.”  In  the  latter  half  of 
the  15th  century  arose  the  idea  of  perpetual  incarna- 
tions. “Then  it  was  that  one  chief  abbot,  the  ‘perfect 
Lama.’  instead  of  passing,  as  he  was  entitled  to  do,  to 
his  ultimate  condition,  determined  for  the  benefit  of 
mankind  to  sojourn  longer  on  the  earth,  and  be  contin- 


531 


INCARNATION 


INCARNATION 


uously  new-born.  As  soon  as  he  was  carried  to  liis  j 
grave  in  1473.  a search  was  instituted  for  the  personage 
who  had  been  destined  to  succeed  him.  4 his  was  found  | 
to  be  an  infant  who  established  its  title  to  the  honor  by  j 
appearing  to  remember  various  articles  which  bad  been  | 
the  property  of  the  lama  just  deceased,  or,  rather,  were 
the  infant’s  own  property  in  earlier  stages  of  existence. 
...  So  fascinating  was  the  theory  of  perpetual  incar- 
nations that  a fresh  succession  of  rival  lamas  (also  of  the 
yellow  order)  afterwards  took  its  rise  in  Teshu-lambu, 
while  the  Dalai  lamas  were  enthroned  in  Lhassa;  and 
at  present  every  convent  of  importance,  not  in  Tibet 
only,  but  in  distant  parts  of  Tartary,  is  claiming  for  it- 
self a like  prerogative.  . . . The  religion  of  Tibet  is 
from  day  to  day  assuming  all  the  characteristics  of 
man-worship”  (Hardwick,  ii,  93  sq.).  For  the  election 
of  the  successor  of  the  lama,  see  also  Hue’s  Travels  in 
Tartary,  ii,  ch.  vi,  p.  197  sq. 

The  notion  that  prevailed  in  Egypt  was  similar, 
“save  only  that  the  symbolical  bull  was  substituted  for 
the  literal  man,  and  as  Buddha  is  still  held  to  be  suc- 
cessively bom  in  each  infant  lama,  so  the  god  Osiris 
was  equally  thought  to  be  successively  born  in  each 
consecrated  Mnevis.  Nor  was  the  doctrine  of  a human 
incarnation  by  any  means  lost  in  that  country.  Diod- 
orus gives  a curious  account  of  an  infant  in  whose  per- 
son Osiris  was  thought  to  have  been  born  into  the  world 
in  order  that  he  might  thus  exhibit  himself  to  mortals  ; 
and  what  Herodotus  says  of  the  Egyptian  Perseus,  who 
was  the  same  divinity  with  Osiris,  necessarily  requires 
us  to  suppose  that  at  certain  intervals  a man  was 
brought  forward  by  the  priests  as  an  incarnation  of  their 
god”  (Diod.  Sic.  lib.  i,  p.  20 ; Herod.  Hist,  ii,  ch.  xci ; (1. 
S.  Faber,  Eight  Dissertations,  i,  61  sq. ; see  Wilkinson’s 
note  ad  loc.  cit.  in  ltawlinson’s  Herodotus).  On  the 
general  subject,  see  also  Faber's  Origin  o f Pagan  Idola- 
try, vi,  ch.  vi ; Eight  Dissertations,  i,  67  sq. 

Under  the  head  of  classical  metamorphoses  it  will  be 
sufficient  to  refer  to  Baur  in  Baumgarten  (on  Acts,  i, 
446,  transl.) ; to  Ovid,  Metamorphoses,  Baucis  et  Phile- 
mon; and  the  name  that  Jupiter  bore  of  Z tvg  KaTaj3d- 
Tijr  (Biscoe,  On  the  Acts,  p.  205). 

“ Passing  over  to  the  American  continent,  whether 
by  way  of  Iceland  to  Labrador,  or  eastward  from  Asia, 
we  find  the  wilderness,  from  the  frozen  shores  of  the 
Arctic  Ocean  to  the  Mexican  Gulf,  resounding  with  the 
deeds  of  a hero-god  corresponding  in  character,  history, 
and  name  with  the  Wodin  and  Buddha  of  the  eastern 
continent.  . . . His  grandmother  descended  from  the 
moon,  which,  in  the  symbolic  language  of  the  early  tra- 
ditions, always  represents  the  Xoachian  ark.  The  only 
daughter  of  this  Nokomis,  in  the  bloom  of  her  maiden- 
hood, without  the  concurrence  of  mortal  agency,  and  in 
a miraculous  manner,  gave  birth  to  a son,  who  became 
conscious,  as  he  advanced  to  manhood,  that  he  was  en- 
dowed with  supernatural  powers  for  the  redemption  of 
the  world  from  evil.  All  his  stupendous  exploits  were 
directed  to  that  end.  His  name  in  the  Indian  dialects 
was  Bosho,  Bozho,"  etc.  (Meth.  Quasi.  Re)\  1859,  p.  596 ; 
compare  .Schoolcraft’s  Algic  Res.  i,  135;  and  Kingsbor- 
ougb’s  Me. tc.  Antiq.v i,  175).  The  remarkable  story  of 
the  birth  of  lluitzilopochtli  from  a virgin  mother  is 
given  by  Squicr,  American  Archaeological  Res.  p.  196. 
For  the  reputed  incarnations  of  the  highest  god,  Tez- 
\ catlipoca,  thought  bv  Mr.  Squier  to  be  analogous  to 
Buddha,  Zoroaster,  Osiris,  Taut  in  Phoenicia,  Odin  in 
Scandinavia,  etc.,  see  Hardwick,  ii,  152,  with  his  re- 
marks.— Brinton  (Daniel  G.),  Myths  of  the  Sew  World 
(N.  Y.  1868),  12mo),  chap,  ii  and  iv. 

II.  Definition  of  “Incarnation"  in  the  Christian  *S 'rheme. 
— In  the  evangelical  sense,  incarnation  is  that  act  of  grace 
whereby  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  took  upon  himself 
the  nature  of  man.  “ By  taking  only  the  nature  of  man, 
he  still  continueth  one  person,  and  changeth  but  the 
manner  of  his  subsisting,  which  was  before  in  the  mere 
glory  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  is  now  in  the  habit  of  our 
flesh”  (Hooker,  Ecc.  Pol.  v,  § 52).  In  the  assumption  of 


our  nature  he  became  subject  to  the  consequences  of  sin, 
except  that  he  was  without  the  accident  of  sin  (see 
Ebrard,  in  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  s.  v.  Jesus  Christ). 
“ That  Christ  should  have  taken  man’s  nature  shows 
that  corruption  was  not  inherent  in  its  existence  in 
such  wise  that  to  assume  the  nature  was  to  assume 
the  sin”  (Wilberforce,  Doctrine  of  the  Incarnation,  p.74). 
The  essential  features  of  the  incarnation  are  peculiar  to 
Christianity,  and  when  wte  speak  of  the  incarnation,  that 
of  Christianity  is  at  oucc  understood ; for  the  incarna- 
tion of  Vishnu  as  found  in  Krishna,  which  is  admitted 
to  be  the  most  perfect  of  all  heathen  incarnations,  and 
the  only  one  to  be  compared  with  that  of  Christ  accord- 
| ing  to  Hardwick  ( Christ  and  other  Masters,  i,  291), 

I “ when  purged  from  all  the  lewd  and  Bacchanalian  ad- 
juncts which  disfigure  and  debase  incomes  indefinitely 
short  of  Christianity.”  “Nothing  can  be  more  absurd 
than  to  compare  the  incarnations  of  this  Indian  deity 
with  that  of  Christ.  They  arc  by  their  multiplicity 
alone  tinctured  with  the  pantheistic  idea.  The  human 
personality  is  destitute  of  reality,  since  it  is  taken  up 
and  laid  down  as  a veil  or  mask  with  which  the  divinity 
invested  himself  for  a moment.  Moreover,  the  degra- 
dation of  the  god  is  carried  too  far — he  descended  to 
evil,  and  participated  in  human  corruption”  (Pressense, 

I Rel.  before  Christ,  p.  61).  Although,  therefore,  the  idea 
of  the  union  of  the  divine  and  human  natures  was  not 
foreign  to  heathenism,  vet  that  the  divine  Logos  should 
become  flesh  belonged  to  Christianity  alone.  False  re- 
ligions teach  an  apotheosis  of  man  rather  than  a proper 
incarnation  of  the  Deity.  Judaism  itself  had  never  risen 
to  the  conception  of  an  incarnate  God.  The  antagonism 
between  the  Creator  and  the  creature  was  too  sharply 
defined  to  admit  such  an  interpretation  of  the  first  prom- 
: ise  as  the  incarnation  has  given.  See  Martensen,  Christ. 
Dogm.  § 128 ; Neander,  Church  Hist.  (Clark),  ii,  200  sq. ; 
Kitto,  Daily  Bible  Illust.  29th  week,  .evening. 

The  use  of  the  term  incarnation  (later  Latin)  may  be 
traced  back  to  Irenams,  A.D.  180,  as  in  the  expression 
“Incarnatio  pro  nostra  salute”  ( Contra  Hier.  i,  10). 

III.  Theory. — The  doctrine  of  the  incarnation  is  fun- 
damental to  Christianity,  and  is  the  basis  upon  which 
the  entire  fabric  of  revealed  religion  rests.  It  is  pre- 
sented to  our  faith  from  the  plane  of  the  miraculous, 
and  is  to  be  considered  as  the  one  all-comprehensive 
miracle  of  Christianity.  It  contains  within  itself  essen- 
tially the  entire  series  of  miracles  as  taught  in  the  Gos- 
pels. These  miracles  are  the  fruit,  after  its  kind,  which 
this  divine  tree  brings  forth.  Faith  sees  in  the  fallen 
estate  of  so  noble  a being  as  man,  and  his  restoration  to 
purity,  immortality,  and  God,  objects  commensurate 
with  the  sacrifice  and  humiliation  that  are  implied  in 
the  incarnation,  and  accepts  the  doctrine  as  correspond- 
ing to  the  wants  and  necessities  of  human  nature ; but 
a divine  revelation  elevates  our  vision,  and  meets  all  ob- 
jections founded  upon  the  comparative  insignificance  of 
our  race  by  indicating  that  in  some  mysterious  manner 
the  influences  of  the  atonement  may  beneficially  affect 
the  entire  universe.  See  Garbett,  Christ  as  Prophet,  i, 
12 ; Kurtz,  A stron.  and  the  Bible,  transl.  p.  95  sq. ; Calvin 
on  Col.  i,  20 ; Olshausen,  Stier,  and  Harless  on  Eph.  ii,  20. 

The  blending  together  of  two  natures  implied  in  an 
incarnation  presupposes  some  element  of  nature  common 
to  both.  As  far  as  we  can  see,  “ things  absolutely  dis- 
similar in  their  nature  cannot  mingle : water  cannot 
coalesce  with  fire ; water  cannot  mix  with  oil”  ( F.  W. 
Robertson  on  Matt,  v,  48).  “Forasmuch  as  there  is  no 
union  of  God  with  man  without  that  mean  between  both 
which  is  both”  (Hooker),  we  see  in  the  incarnation,  re- 
flected as  in  a mirror,  the  true  nobility  of  man’s  nature, 
and  the  secret  of  the  fact  that  the  incarnation  took 
place  in  the  seed  of  Abraham  rather  than  in  angels. 
“For  verily  he  taketh  not  hold  of  angels,  but  of  the 
seed  of  Abraham  he  taketh  hold”  (Ueb.  ii,  16,  marginal 
rend.).  “The  most  common  mode  of  presenting  the 
doctrine  is  to  say  that  the  Logos  assumed  our  fallen  hu- 
| manitv.  But  by  this,  we  are  told,  is  not  to  be  under* 


INCARNATION 


532 


INCARNATION 


stood  that  he  assumed  an  individual  body  and  soul,  so  I 
that  he  became  a man,  but  that  he  assumed  generic  hu- 
manity, so  that  he  became  the  man.  By  generic  hu- 
manity is  to  be  understood  a life-power,  that  peculiar 
law  of  life,  corporeal  and  incorporeal,  which  develops  it- 
self outwardly  as  a body,  and  inwardly  as  a soul.  The 
Son,  therefore,  became  incarnate  in  humanity  in  that 
objective  reality,  entity,  or  substance  in  which  all  hu- 
man lives  are  one.  Tims,  too,  Olshausen,  in  his  com- 
ment on  John  i,  14,  says,  ‘ It  could  not  be  said  that  the 
"Word  was  made  man,  which  would  imply  that  the  Re- 
deemer was  a man  by  the  side  of  other  men,  whereas, 
being  the  second  Adam,  he  represented  the  totality  of 
human  nature  in  his  exalted  comprehensive  personal- 
ity.’ To  the  same  effect  he  says,  in  his  remarks  on 
Rom.  v,  15,  ‘ If  Christ  were  a man  among  other  men,  it 
would  be  impossible  to  conceive  how  his  suffering  and 
obedience  could  have  an  essential  influence  on  mankind : 
he  could  then  only  operate  as  an  example ; but  he  is  to 
be  regarded,  even  apart  from  his  divine  nature,  as  the 
man,  i.  e.  as  realizing  the  absolute  idea  of  humanity, 
and  including  it  potentially  in  himself  spiritually  as 
Adam  did  corporeally.’  To  this  point  archdeacon  Wil- 
berforce  devotes  the  third  chapter  of  his  book  on  The 
Incarnation , and  represents  the  whole  value  of  Christ’s 
work  as  depending  upon  it.  If  this  be  denied,  he  says, 

* the  doctrines  of  atonement  and  sanctification,  though 
confessed  in  words,  become  a mere  empty  phraseology.’ 
In  fine,  Dr.  Nevin,  of  America,  in  his  Mystical  Presence , 
p.  210,  says, 1 The  Word  became  flesh ; not  a single  man 
only,  as  one  among  many,  but  flesh,  or  humanity,  in  its 
miiversal  conception.  How  else  could  he  be  the  prin- 
ciple of  a general  life,  the  origin  of  a new  order  of  exist- 
ence for  the  human  world  as  snch  ?”  (Eadie).  This  fine 
distinction,  however,  savors  too  much  of  transcendental- 
ism to  be  capable  of  clear  apprehension  or  general  re- 
ception. It  is  sufficient  to  say  that  the  divine  Logos 
actually  assumed  a human  body  and  soul,  not  precisely 
such  as  fallen  men  have,  but  like  that  of  the  newly-cre- 
ated Adam,  or  rather  became  himself  the  archetypal 
man  after  whom,  as  a pattern  originally  in  the  mind  of 
Deity,  the  human  race  was  primevally  fashioned.  See 
Image  of  God. 

The  question  whether  there  would  or  could  have  been 
an  incarnation  without  the  fall  of  man  has  especially 
engaged  the  speculative  minds  cf  German  divines,  most 
of  whom  maintain  the  affirmative.  “ If,  then,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  stands  in  an  eternal  relation  to  the 
Father  and  to  humanity — if  his  person  has  not  merely 
a historical,  not  merely  a religious  and  ethical,  but  also 
a metaphysical  significance,  sin  alone  cannot  have  been 
the  ground  of  his  revelation ; for  there  was  no  meta- 
physical necessity  for  sin  entering  the  world,  and  Christ 
could  not  be  our  Redeemer  if  it  had  been  eternally  in- 
volved in  the  idea  that  he  should  be  our  Mediator.  Are 
we  to  suppose  that  what  is  most  glorious  in  the  world 
could  only  be  reached  through  the  medium  of  sin?  that 
there  would  have  been  no  room  in  the  human  race  for 
the  glory  of  the  onlv-begotten  One  but  for  sin?  If  we 
start  with  the  thought  of  humanity  as  destined  to  bear 
the  image  of  God,  with  the  thought  of  a kingdom  of 
individuals  filled  with  God,  must  we  not  necessarily 
ask,  even  if  we  for  the  moment  suppose  sin  to  have  no 
existence,  Where  in  this  kingdom  is  the  perfect  God- 
man?  Xo  one  of  the  individuals  by  himself  expresses 
more  than  a relative  union  of  the  divine  and  human 
natures.  Xo  one  participates  more  than  partially  in 
the  “fulness  of  him  that  filleth  all”  (Eph.  i,  23).  All, 
therefore,  point  beyond  themselves  to  a union  of  God 
and  man,  which  is  not  partial  and  relative  (Ik  fi'tpovg,  1 
Cor. xii,  27), but  perfect  and  complete”  (Martensen,  Chris- 
tian Dogmatics,  § 131).  See  also  Midler,  Deutsche  Zeit- 
sekrift , 1853,  No.  43 ; Philippi,  Kircliliche  Glaubenslekre, 
Einleitung;  Ebrard,  Dogmatik,  ii,  95;  British  and  For- 
eign Ev.  Rev.  in  Theol.  Eclec.  iii,  2G7. 

IV.  Objections  to  the  Bible  doctrine  of  the  incarna- 
tion worthy  of  consideration  are  more  easily  resolved, 


| perhaps,  than  those  against  any  other  doctrine  of  Scrip* 
ture,  for  they  are  mostly,  if  not  altogether,  to  be  com- 
prehended under  the  head  of  its  deep  mysteriousness. 
Many  writers,  however,  have  adduced  as  parallel  the 
mystery  of  creation,  which  is  in  itself  the  embodiment 
of  thought  in  matter,  and  the  existence  of  such  a com- 
posite being  as  man,  not  to  speak  of  mysteries  with 
which  our  entire  economy  is  crowded.  A priori,  it  is 
not  more  difficult  to  conceive  of  the  union  of  the  divine 
with  the  human,  or  the  taking  up  of  the  human  into 
the  divine,  than  to  comprehend  the  incarnation  of  an 
immaterial  essence  such  as  that  of  the  mind  in  a mate- 
rial form  like  that  of  the  body.  “ If  even  in  our  time 
the  idea  of  the  incarnation  of  God  still  appears  so  diffi- 
cult, the  principal  reason  is,  that  the  fact  itself  is  too 
much  isolated.  It  is  always  the  impulse  of  spirit  to 
embody  itself,  for  corporeity  is  the  end  of  the  work  of 
God ; in  every  phenomenon  an  idea  descends  from  the 
world  of  spirit  and  embodies  itself  here  below.  It  may 
therefore  be  said  that  all  the  nobler  among  men  are  rays 
of  that  sun  which  in  Christ  rose  on  the  firmament  of 
humanity.  In  Abraham,  Moses,  and  others,  we  already 
discover  the  coming  Christ”  (Olshausen  on  John  i,  14). 

The  strictures  of  archbishop  Whately  with  respect  to 
the  substance  of  Deity,  etc.,  may  hold  good  of  dogma- 
tism upon  the  incarnation : “But  as  to  the  substance  of 
the  supreme  Being  and  of  the  human  soul,  many  men 
were  (and  still  are)  confident  in  their  opinions,  and  dog- 
matical in  maintaining  them  : the  more,  inasmuch  as  in 
these  subjects  they  could  not.  b«  refuted  by  an  appeal 
to  experiment.  . . . Philosophical  divines  are  continu- 
ally prone  to  forget  that  the  subjects  on  which  they 
speculate  are  confessedly  and  by  their  own  account  be- 
yond the  reach  of  the  human  facidties.  This  is  no  rea- 
son, indeed,  against  our  believing  anything  clearly  re- 
vealed in  Scripture ; but  it  is  a reason  against  going  be- 
yond Scripture  -with  metaphysical  speculations  of  our 
own,”  etc.  ( Cyclop . Brit,  i,  517,  8th  ed.).  On  objections, 
consult  Liddon,  Bumpton  Lecture , lect.  v ; Sadler,  Em- 
manuel, chaps,  ii,  v ; Fravssinous,  Def.  of  Christianity,  ii, 
eh.  xxv ; Tlios.  Adams.  Meditations  on  Creed,  in  Works, 
iii,  235;  Martensen,  Christ.  Dogmat.  § 132. 

V.  History  of  Views. — The  true  theory  of  the  nature 
of  Christ  was  of  gradual  development  in  the  history  of 
the  Church.  Not  unlike  the  best  and  most  enduring 
growths  of  nature,  it  sprang  up  and  matured  amid  the 
conflicts  of  doubt  and  the  tempests  of  faction.  (See  § 
Till,  below.)  The  efforts  to  harmonize  the  divine  and 
human  natures  of  Christ  gave  rise  to  a series  of  fluctua- 
tions of  doubt,  which  illustrate  in  a signal  manner  the 
tendencies  of  the  human  mind  to  recoil  from  one  ex- 
treme to  another.  The  close  of  the  4th  century  (A.D. 
381)  witnessed  the  maturing  of  correct  views  as  to  the 
twofold  nature  in  the  one  person  of  Christ,  and  their 
embodiment  in  the  creed,  which,  subjected  to  the  test  of 
centuries,  is  still  the  expression  and  symbol  of  the  faith 
of  the  Church.  See  Creed,  Nicexe  and  Coxstanti- 
kopolitan,  vol.  ii,  p.  562. 

“ If  we  would  correctly  apprehend  the  ancient  Church 
doctrine  of  the  two  natures,  we  must  take  <pvoig  in  the 
abstract  sense  in  which  it  was  used.  The  divine  na- 
ture consists  in  this,  that  Christ  is  God,  the  predicate 
4 God1  belongs  to  him ; the  human  nature  is  this,  that 
the  predicate  4 man'  is  assigned  to  it.  His  divine  nature 
is  the  divine  essence  which  subsists  in  the  Logos  from  * 
eternity,  and  which  in  his  becoming  man  he  still  re- 
tained. His  human  nature  is  the  man’s  nature  or  mode 
of  being  and  constitution,  which  for  itself  does  not  sub- 
sist, but  which,  as  a universed  attribute,  exists  in  all 
other  men,  and,  since  his  incarnation,  also  in  him — the 
natura  hominum.  To  have  human  feeling,  will,  and 
thought,  and  as  a human  soul  to  animate  a human  body, 
is  human  nature.  We  must,  however,  never  think  of 
human  nature  as  a concretum,  a subsistens,  a son  of  Mary, 
with  which  the  Son  of  God  united  himself,  or  mixed 
himself  up”  (Ebrard,  in  Herzog,  Iieal-Encyklopadie,  s.  v. 
Jesus  Christ). 


INCARNATION 


533 


INCARNATION 


With  the  explanation  thus  given,  we  proceed  to  re- 
mark that  the  earliest  controversies  of  the  Church  re- 
volved around  the  physical  nature  of  Christ.  The  result 
of  those  contests  established  the  essential  oneness  of 
Christ’s  body  with  ours.  The  pungency  of  the  argu- 
ments employed  may  be  illustrated  in  the  words  of  lre- 
nteus  (quoted  by  Hooker,  Keel,  Polity , v,  sec.  53) : “ If 
Christ  had  not  taken  flesh  from  the  very  earth,  he  would 
not  have  coveted  those  earthly  nourishments  wherewith 
bodies  taken  from  thence  are  fed.  This  was  the  nature 
which  felt  hunger  after  long  fasting,  was  desirous  of  rest 
after  travel,  testified  compassion  and  love  by  tears, 
groaned  in  heaviness,  and  with  extremity  of  grief  melt- 
ed away  itself  into  bloody  sweats.”  The  earliest  fa- 
thers, with  the  exception  of  Justin  Martyr,  held  the 
opinion  that  Christ  assumed  only  a human  body,  or,  if 
he  had  a soul,  it  was  animal,  or,  which  was  more  com- 
mon, they  quite  ignored  the  question  of  his  human  soul. 
The  views  of  Justin,  however,  were  colored  by  the  Pla- 
tonic philosophy,  which  led  him  to  attribute  to  Christ 
body,  soul,  and  spirit,  but  in  such  a mode  of  union  with 
the  Logos  as  to  furnish  the  germs  of  the  future  error  of 
Apollinaris  the  younger.  TertuUian,  about  the  end  of 
the  2d  century,  first  ascribed  to  Christ  a proper  human 
soul,  and  thus  met  and  disposed  of  the  difficulties  which 
had  arisen  from  the  teaching  that  connected  the  Logos 
immediately  with  the  body  of  Christ.  The  doctrine  of 
the  human  soul  of  Christ  was  more  fully  developed  and 
illustrated  by  Origen.  But,  in  comparing  the  connec- 
tion between  the  Logos  and  the  human  nature  in  Christ 
to  the  union  of  believers  with  Christ,  he  drew  upon 
himself  the  objection  that  he  made  Christ  a mere  man. 
(See  further,  Knapp,  Lectures  on  Christian  Theology,  sec. 
cii,  note  by  the  translator.)  Ambrose  (De  Tncamatione, 
p.  76)  may  more  properly  serve  as  the  connecting  link 
between  TertuUian  and  the  Athanasian  Creed,  the  latter 
setting  forth  the  doctrine  to  which  the  Church  was 
slowly  attaining  in  the  following  words:  “Perfectus 
Dens,  perfectus  homo,  ex  anima  rationali  et  humana 
carne  subsistens.”  Thus  Ambrose  reasons:  “Do  we 
also  infer  division  when  we  affirm  that  he  took  on  him 
a reasonable  sold,  and  one  endowed  with  intellectual  ca- 
pacity? For  God  himself,  the  Word,  was  not  to  the 
flesh  as  the  reasonable  intellectual  soul;  but  God  the 
Word,  taking  upon  him  a reasonable  intellectual  soid, 
human,  and  of  the  same  substance  with  our  souls,  the 
flesh  also  like  our  own,  and  of  the  same  substance  with 
that  of  which  our  flesh  is  formed,  was  also  perfect  man, 
but  without  any  taint  of  sin.  . . . Wherefore  his  flesh 
and  his  soid  were  of  the  same  substance  with  our  souls 
and  our  flesh.”  Questions  in  connection  with  the  na- 
ture of  the  human  soid  of  Christ  came  into  greater 
prominence  towards  the  close  of  the  4th  century  than 
ever  before  in  the  history  of  the  Church.  Apollinaris 
the  younger  revived  the  opinion  which  extensively  pre- 
vailed in  the  primitive  Church,  that  Christ  connected 
himself  only  with  a humau  body  and  an  animal  soid 
(Hase,  Ck.  Hist . sec.  104).  “Two  beings  persisting  in 
their  completeness,  he  conceived,  coidd  not  be  united 
into  one  whole.  Out  of  the  union  of  the  perfect  human 
nature  with  the  Deity  one  person  never  coidd  proceed; 
and,  more  particularly,  the  rational  soul  of  the  man  coidd 
not  be  assumed  into  union  with  the  divine  Logos  so  as 
to  form  one  person”  (Neander,  iv,  119,  Clarke’s  edition). 
From  an  early  part  of  the  9th  century,  when  the  Adop- 
tian  tenets  sank  into  oblivion,  the  Church  enjoyed  com- 
parative rest.  But,  as  might  have  been  presumed,  the 
era  of  scholastic  theology,  which  was  inaugurated  at 
about  the  commencement  of  the  12th  century,  and  con- 
tinued into  the  15th,  although  the  attention  of  the 
schoolmen  was  more  directed  to  other  subjects,  did  not 
pass  by  one  that  so  readily  admitted  the  exercise  of  di- 
alectic subtlety.  The  nominalism  of  Roscelinus,  “which 
regarded  the  appellation  God,  that  is  common  to  the 
three  persons,  as  a mere  name,  i.  e.  as  the  abstract  idea 
of  a genus”  (Hagenbach),  had  perverted  the  true  idea 
of  Father,  Son,  and  Spirit  iuto  that  of  three  individuals 


or  things,  in  contradistinction  to  one  thing  (una  res). 
In  response,  Anselm  argued  that,  as  every  universal  is 
a mere  abstraction,  and  particulars  alone  have  reality, 
so  “ if  only  the  essence  of  God  in  the  Trinity  was  called 
una  res,  and  the  three  persons  not  tres  res,  the  latter 
coidd  not  be  considered  as  anything  real.  Only  the  one 
God  would  be  the  real;  all  besides  would  become  a 
mere  nominal  distinction,  to  which  nothing  real  corre- 
sponded ; and  so,  therefore,  along  with  the  Son,  the  Fa- 
ther and  the  Holy  Ghost  would  also  have  become  man’’ 
(Neander,  viii,  92).  “ The  daring  assertions  of  Roscel- 

inus exposed  him  to  the  charge  of  Tritheism,  while 
those  of  Abelard  exposed  him  to  that  of  Sabellianism. 
The  distinction  which  Gilbert  of  Poitiers  drew  between 
the  quo  est  and  the  quod  est  gave  to  his  doctrine  the 
semblance  of  Tctratheism”  (see  Hagenbach,  History  of 
JJoct.  i,  sec.  170).  Though  his  starting-point  was  Real- 
ism, he  arrived  at  the  same  goal  as  the  Nominalist  Ros- 
celinus. “ The  Scholastics  had  much  to  say  of  the  re- 
lation of  number  to  the  divine  unity.  Since  Boethius 
had  put  forth  the  canon,  ‘ Ycrc  unum  esse,  in  quo  nullns 
sit  numerus,’  Peter  the  Lombard  sought  to  avoid  the 
difficulty  by  saying  that  number,  in  its  application  to 
God  and  divine  things,  had  only  a negative  meaning; 
‘these  are  rather  said  to  exclude  what  is  not  in  God 
than  to  assert  what  is’”  ( TheoL  Leet.  by  Dr.  Twesten, 
transl.  in  Bib.  Sac.  iii,  770).  “Considered  as  an  act, 
according  to  Thomas  Aquinas,  the  incarnation  is  the 
work  of  the  whole  Trinity ; but  in  respect  to  its  termi- 
nus, that  is,  the  personal  union  of  the  divine  and  human 
nature,  it  belongs  only  to  the  Son ; since,  according  to 
the  doctrine  of  the  Church,  it  is  first  and  properly  not 
the  nature,  but  a person,  and  that  the  second  person, 
which  has  assumed  humanity.”  (For  the  accordance 
of  this  with  the  confession  of  faith  of  the  eleventh 
Council  at  Toledo,  A.D.  675,  sec  Bib.  Sac.  iv,  50,  note.) 
“ Duns  Scotus  ascribed  to  the  human  nature  of  Christ  a 
proper  if  not  an  independent  existence.  This  funda- 
mental view  of  the  Middle  Ages  Luther  also  adopted, 
and  designated  the  divinity  and  humanity  as  two 
‘parts;’  jud  upon  this  he  built  his  theory  of  the  impar- 
tation  of  the  divine  attribute  to  the  human”  (Herzog). 

The  age  of  the  Reformation  contributed  nothing  or 
but  little  new  on  the  subject  of  the  incarnation.  The 
most  that  it  did  was  to  repeat  some  of  the  more  pesti- 
lent errors  of  the  past,  and  in  the  mean  time,  through 
the  conflicts  of  mind,  bring  into  bolder  relief  the  linea- 
ments of  truth.  “Thus  Caspar  Scliwenkfield  revived 
the  docetico-monophysitie  doctrine  concerning  the  i glo- 
rified and  deified  fiesh'  of  Christ.  Menno  Simon  is,  as 
well  as  other  Anabaptists,  supposed  (like  the  Valenti n- 
ians  in  the  first  period)  that  our  Lord’s  birth  was  a mere 
phantom.  Michael  Servetus  maintained  that  Christ 
was  a mere  man,  filled  with  the  divine  nature,  and  re- 
jected all  further  distinctions  between  his  two  natures 
as  unscriptural,  and  founded  upon  scholastic  definitions 
alone.  Fanstns  Socinus  went  so  far  as  to  return  to 
the  view  entertained  by  the  Ebionites  and  Xazarenes” 
(Hagenbach,  History  of  Doct.  sec.  265).  According  to 
Dorner,  “ Servetus,  resting  on  a pantheistic  basis,  could 
say  that  the  flesh  of  Christ  was  consubstantial  with 
God,  but  the  same  would  hold  true  in  reference  to  all 
flesh.”  Nevertheless,  he  did  not  say  it  in  reference  to 
all  flesh.  “ In  his  opinion,  Christ  alone  is  the  Son  of 
God;  nor  is  that  name  to  be  given  to  any  one  else” 
(Hagenbach,  sec.  265).  The  controversies  between  Cal- 
vin and  Servetus,  in  which  were  comprehended  the  er- 
roneous views  of  the  latter  on  the  subject  of  the  in- 
carnation, at  last  culminated  m his  death  at  the  stake. 
"Much,  however,  as  Calvin  was  blamed  for  calling  the 
Son,  considered  in  his  essence,  avroSreog,  still  he  was 
right,  and  is  supported  by  Lutheran  theologians.  In 
another  point  of  view,  that  is,  considered  in  his  personal 
■ subsistence,  the  Son  cannot  be  called  avroSrtoc,  but  only 
I the  Father,  since  he  alone  is  ayivvyroq ; but  the  aytv- 
i vTjoia  of  the  person  is  not  to  be  confounded  with  the 
| absoluteness  of  the  essence."  (See  further,  Twesten,  in 


INCARNATION 


534 


INCARNATION 


the  Bib.  Sac.  iv,  39.  For  the  differences,  as  respects 
the  incarnation,  between  Luther  and  Zwingle,  in  which 
each  failed  to  comprehend  the  stand-point  of  the  other, 
see  Herzog,  Real-Encyklopadie , art.  Jesus  Christ.) 

VI.  Theophanies.— It  might  have  been  expected,  from 
a consideration  of  an  event  of  such  moment  to  our  race 
as  the  incarnation,  that,  delayed  so  long  in  the  history 
of  the  world,  it  would  not  have  been  without  its  adum- 
brations, like  types  in  nature,  mute  prophecies  of  arche- 
typal existence.  The  first  prophecy  of  the  incarnation 
was  coeval  with  the  fall.  In  terms  succinct  and  yet 
clear,  the  announcement  was  made  that  from  the  seed 
of  the  woman  should  rise  the  hope  of  man.  In  analogy 
with  nature  the  typical  form  w as  thus  given,  from  which 
the  grand  archetyphal  idea  should  be  elaborated,  until 
in  the  fulness  of  time  that  idea  should  be  permanently 
embodied,  and  God  become  manifest  ill  the  flesh.  “ No 
sooner  had  the  first  Adam  appeared  and  fallen  than  a 
new  school  of  prophecy  began,  in  which  type  and  sym- 
bol were  mingled  with  what  had  now  its  first  existence 
on  the  earth— verbal  enunciations;  and  all  pointed  to 
the  second  Adam,  ‘ the  Lord  from  heaven.’  In  him  cre- 
ation and  the  Creator  meet  in  reality  and  not  in  sem- 
blance. On  the  very  apex  of  the  finished  pyramid  of 
being  sits  the  adorable  Monarch  of  all — as  the  Son  of 
Mary,  of  David,  of  the  first  Adam,  the  created  of  God; 
as  God  and  the  Son  of  God,  the  eternal  Creator  of  the 
universe;  and  these— the  two  Adams— form  the  main 
theme  of  all  prophecy,  natural  and  revealed.  That  type 
and  symbol  should  have  been  employed  with  reference 
not  only  to  the  second,  but,  as  held  by  men  like  Agas- 
siz and  Owen,  to  the  first  Adam  also,  exemplifies,  we 
are  disposed  to  think,  the  unity  of  the  style  of  Deity, 
and  serves  to  show  that  it  was  he  who  created  the 
worlds  that  dictated  the  Scriptures”  (Hugh  Miller,  in 
Fairbairn’s  Typology , vol.  i,  append,  i).  See  also  Hugh 
Miller,  Test,  of  Rocks,  lect.  v ; M'Cosh,  Typical  Forms ; 
Agassiz,  Princ.  of  Zoology,  pt.  i. 

During  the  course  of  the  preparatory  dispensations, 
the  divine  Being  disclosed  himself  to  the  more  pious 
and  favored  of  our  race  in  the  form  of  man,  and  with 
the  title  of ‘‘the  Angel  of  Jehovah” — PtlPP 
The  first  of  these  appearances  was  to  Hagar  in  her  dis- 
tress. The  angel  addressed  her  in  the  person  of  God, 
and  she,  in  return,  attributed  to  him  the  name  of  “ Thou, 
God,  seest  me.”  The  foremost  of  the  three  angels  with 
whom  Abraham  conversed  with  respect  to  the  cities  of 
the  plain  (Gen.  xviii)  is  called  not  fewer  than  eight 
times  “ Jehovah,”  and  six  times  ‘-Lord”  ("3“IX).  (Sec 
Hengstenberg,  Christol.  i,  112,  transl.)  In  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  cities  of  the  plain  an  unmistakable  distinc- 
tion is  made  between  two  persons,  each  of  whom  bears 
the  same  divine  name:  “Then  the  Lord  rained  upon 
Sodom  and  upon  Gomorrah  brimstone  and  fire  from  the 
Lord  out  of  heaven”  (Gen.  xix,  24).  The  full  nature  of 
the  theophany  to  Jacob  (Gen.  xxxii,  24-30)  is  made  man- 
ifest in  II os.  xii,  3-5.  The  scene  opens  with  the  view 
of  a man  wrestling  with  Jacob,  and  closes  with  Jacob’s 
calling  the  name  of  the  place  “ Pcniel,  for  I have  seen 
God  face  to  face,  and  my  life  is  preserved.”  “The 
prophet  Ilosea  puts  it  beyond  a doubt  that  this  was  a 
divine  person  by  styling  him  not  only  an  angel  and 
God  (~_nPX),  but  Jehovah,  God  of  hosts,  Jehovah  is 
his  memorial.  Whilst,  therefore,  he  was  a man  and  an 
angel,  or  the  angel  of  the  covenant,  he  was  also  the  su- 
preme Jehovah.  These  titles  and  attributes  belong  to 
none  other  than  the  second  person  of  the  blessed  Trin- 
ity, Christ  the  Saviour”  (Davidson,  Sacred  Hermeneu- 
tics, p.  281).  The  “Angel  of  Jehovah”  appears  to  Mo- 
ses in  a flame  of  fire  from  the  bush,  and  still  takes  to 
himself  the  names  of  Deity,  Elohim,  and  Jehovah  (Exod. 
iii,  2-7) ; manifests  himself  to  Manoah  as  man,  and  yet 
is  recognised  and  worshipped  as  God,  while  he  declares 
his  name  to  be  “ Wonderful.”  the  same  as  in  Isa.  ix,  6 ; 
and  at  the  close  of  the  Old-Testament  canon  (Mai.  iii, 
1)  he  is  announced  as  the  angel  or  messenger  who 


should  suddenly  come  to  his  Temple.  (See  also  Exod. 
xiv,  19;  xviii,  20;  xxii,  34;  xxiii,  23;  Numb,  xx,  16; 
comp.  Exod.  xxiii,  21 ; xxxiii,  2,  3,  14;  Josh,  vi,  2;  v, 
13-15,  22;  Judg.  vi,  11-22;  xiii,  6-22;  Isa.  lxiii,  9.) 

As  to  the  nature  of  this  mysterious  personage,  there 
have  been  those  who  have  held,  w'ith  Augustine,  that 
the  theophanies  were  “ not  direct  appearances  of  a per- 
son in  the  Godhead,  but  self-manifestations  of  God 
through  a created  being”  (see  Liddon,  Hampton  Lect.  ii, 
87,  note),  among  the  latest  defenders  of  which  view  are 
Hoffman  (in  his  1 Veissagung  und  Erfullung ) and  De- 
litzsch  (on  Genesis').  On  the  other  hand,  the  fathers 
of  the  Church  prior  to  the  Nicene  Council  were  almost 
unanimous  in  the  opinion  that  the  “angel  of  Jehovah” 
is  identical  with  Jehovah  himself,  not  denoting  an  ex- 
istence apart  from  himself,  but  only  the  mode  of  mani- 
festation of  the  divine  Logos,  w ho  subsequently  became 
incarnate;  and  in  this  viewr  the  Church  has  generally 
acquiesced.  (On  the  subject  of  theophanies,  see  Justin 
Martyr,  A pology ; Eusebius,  Feel.  Hist,  i,  cli.  ii ; Kurtz, 
Old  Cor.  i,  181-201,  transl.;  an  able  article  in  the  Stud, 
u.  Krit.  of  1840  by  Nitzsch ; E.  H.  Stahl,  Lie  Erschei- 
nungen  Jehovas  u.  Seiner  Engel  im  A.  T.,  in  Eiehhorn’s 
Bib.  Rep.x ii,  156  sq. ; Hiinlein,  Ueber  Theo.  u.  Christo- 
phanien,  in  the  X.  Theol.  Journ.  ii,  1 sq.,  93  sq.,  277  sq.) 
See  Thkopiiany. 

VII.  The  Logos. — In  the  description  of  the  incarnation 
given  by  the  evangelist  John  there  appears  the  term 
“ Logos”  in  a sense  new  to  the  Scriptures,  and  among 
New-Testament  writers  peculiar  to  him.  Much  has 
been  written  on  the  origin  of  this  word.  The  Targnms, 
the  best  of  which  are  generally  attributed  to  the  1st 
century,  may  be  regarded  as  embodying  the  sentiments 
of  that  age  (Etheridge,  Iieb.  Lit.  p.  191).  In  these,  for 
the  name  of  Deity,  “Jehovah,”  there  is  employed  the 
paraphrase  “Word  of  the  Lord.”  “On  this  circum- 
stance much  argument  has  been  built.  Some  have 
maintained  that  it  supplies  an  indubitable  ascription  of 
personal  existence  to  the  Word,  in  some  sense  distinct 
from  the  personal  existence  of  the  supreme  Father; 
that  this  Word  is  the  Logos  of  the  New  Testament; 
and,  consequently,  that  the  phrase  is  a proof  of  a belief 
among  the  ancient  Jews  in  the  pre-existence,  the  per- 
sonal operations,  and  the  deity  of  the  Messiah,  ‘the 
Word  who  became  flesh,  and  fixed  his  tabernacle  among 
us’  ” (J.  Pyc  Smith.  Messiah,  bk.  ii,  sec.  11 ; compare 
Bertlioldt,  Christol.  Jud.  p.  130  sq.).  Others  have  re- 
ferred the  origin  of  the  word  to  Philo;  but,  as  has  been 
abundantly  shown,  the  Logos  of  Philo  has  but  little  in 
common  with  that  of  the  Gospel  (Tholuck,  Comm,  ad 
loc.  p.  61),  and  is  but  a nucleus  of  divine  ideas,  which 
lacks  the  essential  element  of  personality.  “ Blinding  as 
the  resemblance  between  many  of  his  ideas  and  modes 
of  expression  and  those  of  Christianity  may  be  to  the 
superficial  reader,  yet  the  essential  principle  is  to  its 
very  foundation  diverse.  Even  that  which  sounds  like 
the  expressions  of  John  has  in  its  entire  connection  a 
meaning  altogether  diverse.  . . . Ilis  system  stalks  by 
the  cradle  of  Christianity  only  as  a spectral  counterpart. 
It  appears  like  the  floating,  dissolving  fata  Morgana 
on  the  horizon,  where  Christianity  is  about  to  arise” 

j ( Dorner,  Lehre  v.  der  Person  ( 'hristi,  ii,  198, 342.  C’omp. 
Burton,  Bampton  Lect.  note  93  ; Hitter,  Hist,  of  Philos. 
transl.  iv,  407-478 ; Liddon,  Bampton  Lecture,  p.  93-108 ; 
Dbllinger,  Heid.  u.  Judenthum,  x,  3 ; Bib.  Sacra,  vi,  173 ; 
, vii,  13,  696-732;  Meth.  Quart.  Rev.  1851,  p.  377;  1858, 
p.  110-1 29) . See  Logos. 

VIII.  Heresies. — The  false  theories  that  have  gathered 
around  the  doctrine  of  the  incarnation  are  manifold,  and 
deny  (1)  that  Christ  w'as  truly  God,  (2)  that  he  was 
truly  man,  or  (3)  that  he  is  God-man  in  one  undivided 
and  indivisible  person.  (See  Wangemann,  Christliche 
Glaubenslehre,  p.  203;  Ffoulkes,  Christendom's  Divisions, 
2 vols.  8vo.)  Compare  Christologv,  III. 

1.  Ebionism.  — This,  the  first  heresy  of  importance, 
took  its  rise  during  the  lifetime  of  the  apostles,  and  rc- 
| ceivedits  designation,  according  to  Origen,  from 


INCARNATION  533  INCARNATION 


poor , thus  signifying,  perhaps,  the  raeagreness  of  their 
religious  system,' or,  more  properly,  the  poverty  of  its 
followers.  They  denied  the  divinity  of  Christ,  but  as- 
cribed to  him  a superior  legal  piety  and  the  elevated 
wisdom  of  a prophet.  Eusebius  says  (Hist.  Eccles.  iii, 
7),  “ The  common  Ebionites  themselves  suppose  that  a 
higher  power  had  united  itself  with  the  man  Jesus  at 
his  baptism."  The  Ebionites,  whose  views  are  repre- 
sented by  the  Clementine  Homilies , differed  from  the  for- 
mer by  asserting  that  Jesus  had  from  the  beginning 
been  pervaded  with  the  same  power;  in  their  opinion 
he  ranks  with  Adam,  Enoch,  and  Moses  (Hagenbach, 
Hist . of  Doctrines,  i,  180).  This  error,  which  has  been 
called,  not  improperly,  the  Socinianism  of  the  age,  re- 
vived and  embodied  the  sentiments  concerning  the 
Messiah  current  among  the  Jews  during  his  life.  The 
views  of  the  Xazarenes , who  are  generally  regarded  as 
a species  of  Ebionites,  while  they  more  nearly  ap- 
proached the  orthodox  faith,  agreed  with  them  in  re- 
garding Christ  as  only  a superior  man. 

2.  Gnosticism. — The  Ebionitish  heresy  that  rose  with- 
in the  infant  Church,  from  its  necessary  association  with 
Judaism,  was  paralleled  by  another  (Gnosticism),  which 
sprang  from  a similar  contact  with  the  pagan  philoso- 
phy of  the  age.  The  assumption  of  a superior  capacity 
for  knowledge  implied  in  the  name  the  Gnostics  bore 
(yvihaiq,  1 Cor.  viii,  1 ; 1 Tim.  vi,  20;  Col.  ii,  8),  proba- 
bly sell-assumed,  indicated  the  transcendental  specula- 
tions which  they  ingrafted  on  the  tender  plant  of  Chris- 
tianity. With  respect  to  the  nature  of  Christ,  they 
held  that  the  Deity  had  existed  from  all  eternity  in  a 
state  of  absolute  quiescence,  but  finally  he  begat  certain 
beings  or  (eons  after  his  own  likeness,  of  whom  Christ 
was  one ; and  that  he  was  allied  to  the  lower  angels  and 
the  Aijpiovpyoq,  Demiurge,  to  whom  this  lower  world 
was  subject.  Moreover,  he  had  never  in  reality  assumed 
a material  body,  but  became  united  with  the  man  Jesus 
at  his  baptism,  and  abode  with  him  until  the  time  of 
his  death.  (See  Mosheim,  Commentaries  on  the  first 
three  Centuries,  sec.  G2.)  The  tenets  of  Gnosticism  can 
be  traced  even  to  the  apostolical  age.  Simon  Magus 
appears  to  have  represented  himself  as  an  incarnation 
of  the  demiurgic  power  (Acts  viii,  10).  The  ancient 
fathers  regarded  him  as  the  father  of  the  Gnostics  (Ire- 
nreus,  adv.  liar,  i,  23).  On  the  other  hand,  Tittmann 
(De  vestigiis  Gnosticorum,  etc.)  holds  that  nothing  was 
known  of  the  Gnostics  until  the  2d  century.  However, 
the  opening  chapter  of  St.  John’s  Gospel  seems  to  be  di- 
rected against  Gnostical  perversions  of  the  doctrine  of 
the  incarnation,  which  is  not  impossible  if  we  admit  the 
well-known  tradition  that  Cerinthus  disputed  with  that 
evangelist.  (See  Eusebius,  Ecclesiastical  History,  iii,  cli. 
xxv  iii.) 

3.  Docetism. — This  was  one  of  the  forms  of  Gnosticism 
denying  the  reality  of  Christ’s  human  nature,  and  repre- 
senting whatever  appertained  to  his  human  appearance 
to  be  a mere  phantasm — cuKiimg.  Jerome  tells  ns  that 
while  the  apostles  were  still  living  there  were  those  who 
taught  that  his  body  was  no  more  than  a phantom. 
This  particular  form  of  Gnostical  error  was  censured  by 
Ignatius  in  his  Epistles,  and  therefore  unquestionably 
arose  early  in  the  Church.  (See  Lardner,  iii,  441 .)  “ If 
the  Son  of  God  (said  the  Doeetist)  has  been  crucified 
for  me  merely  in  appearance,  then  am  I bound  down  by 
the  chains  of  sin  in  appearance;  but  those  who  speak 
are  themselves  a mere  show.”  For  modern  Docetism, 
as  illustrated  in  the  mythical  treatment  of  the  doctrines 
of  sacred  history  by  Schelling,  and  the  Rationalists  gen- 
erally, see  Martensen,  Dogmatics,  p.  244. 

4.  Monarch ianis in  (about  A.D.  170),  go vapyia,  so 
called  either  from  its  regard  to  the  doctrine  of  the  di- 
vine unity,  or  from  a regard  to  Christ’s  dignity.  (See 
Hase,  sec.  90.)  According  to  its  teachings,  Christ  was 
a mere  man,  but  born  of  the  Virgin  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  exalted  to  be  the  Lord  of  the  whole 
Church.  A certain  efflux  from  the  divine  essence  dwelt 
in.  Christ,  and  this  constituted  his  personality,  while  this 


personality  originated  in  the  hypothesis  o!  a divine 
power.  (See  Ncander,  ii,  349,  Clark’s  ed.) 

5.  Suhellianism  (about  258)  taught  that  the  Father, 
Son,  and  Holy  Ghost  were  one  and  the  same — so  many 
different  manifestations  of  the  same  being — three  de- 
nominations in  one  substance.  (See  Hagenbach,  i,  2G3.) 
Thus  the  personality  of  the  Son  was  denied.  His  per- 
sonality in  the  flesh  did  not  exist  prior  to  the  incarna- 
tion, nor  does  it  exist  now,  as  the  divine  ray  which  had 
been  incorporated  in  Christ  has  returned  to  its  source. 
In  the  words  of  Burton,  “If  we  seek  for  a difference  be- 
tween the  theory  of  Sabellius  and  those  of  his  predeces- 
sors, we  are  perhaps  to  say  that  Noetus  supposed  the 
whole  divinity  of  the  Father  to  be  inherent  in  Jesus 
Christ,  whereas  Sabellius  supposed  it  to  be  only  a part, 
which  was  put  forth  like  an  emanation,  and  was  again 
absorbed  in  the  Deity.  Noetus  acknowledged  only  one 
divine  Person ; Sabellius  divided  this  one  dignity  into 
three  ; but  he  supposed  the  Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost  to 
have  no  distinct  personal  existence,  except  when  they 
were  put  forth  for  a time  by  the  Father.”  The  views 
of  Sabellius  reappear  in  the  dogmas  of  Schleiermacher 
(who  regarded  the  eternal  and  absolute  Monas  as  unre- 
vealed; the  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Spirit  as  God  reveal- 
ed), and  in  a modified  form  in  the  Discourses  on  the  In- 
carnation and  Atonement  by  Dr.  Bushnell. 

G.  Manichceism  (circa  A.D.  274).  — Mani  or  Manes, 
who  was  probably  educated  in  the  religion  of  Zoroaster, 
upon  his  adoption  of  the  Christian  faith,  transferred  to 
his  Christ  the  Oriental  views  of  incarnation.  In  this 
system  the  dualistic  principle  was  more  fully  developed 
than  in  Gnosticism.  He  brought  together  as  in  a ka- 
leidoscope the  fantasies  of  I’arseeism,  Buddhism,  and 
Chaldeeism,  bits  of  philosophy  alike  brilliant  and  alike 
worthless.  “ From  Gnosticism,  or,  rather,  from  univer- 
sal Orientalism,  he  drew  the  inseparable  admixture  of 
moral  and  physical  notions,  the  eternal  hostility  between 
mind  and  matter,  the  rejection  of  Judaism,  and  the 
identification  of  the  God  of  the  Old  Testament  with  the 
evil  spirit,  the  distinction  between  Jesus  and  the  Christ, 
with  the  Docetism  or  unreal  death  of  the  incorporeal 
Christ.”  For  a further  admirable  summary  of  his  views, 
see  Milman’s  Latin  Christ,  ii,  322  sq.  The  followers  of 
Manes  formed  themselves  into  a Church  A.D.  274, 
which  possessed  a hierarchical  form  of  government,  and 
consisted  of  two  great  classes,  the  perfect  (elect i)  and 
catechumens  (audit ores).  (See  Hase,  sec.  82.) 

7.  Arianism  (about  318).— The  4th  century  witnessed 
the  rise  of  the  most  formidable  and  persistent  of  all  the 
forms  of  error  as  to  the  person  of  Christ.  The  teach- 
ings of  Alexander,  bishop  of  Alexandria,  that  the  Son 
was  of  the  same  essence  with  the  Father,  developed  the 
latent  doubts  of  one  of  his  presbyters,  Arius,  who  rushed 
to  the  other  extreme.  Charging  his  bishop  with  Sa- 
bcllianism,  he  maintained  that  the  Son  was  not  the  same 
in  substance  (upoovmoq),  but  similar  (opoioinuoc).  He 
did  not  hesitate  to  accept  the  logical  consequences  of 
his  dogma — that  Christ,  though  the  noblest  of  creatures, 
must,  like  all  others,  have  been  created  from  nothing. 
This  deduction  contains,  as  in  a nut-sliell,  the  eutire 
heresy. 

8.  Apollinarianism  (about  A.D.  378).— Apollinaris  the 
younger  rejected  the  proper  humanity  of  Christ.  He 
adopted  many  of  the  sentiments  of  Noetus  the  Monar- 
chian.  From  the  postulate  that  as  the  person  of  Christ 
was  one,  therefore  his  nature  must  be  one,  he  reasoned 
that  there  could  be  no  human  intellect  or  will,  but  that 
the  functions  of  soul  and  body  must  be  discharged  by 
the  Logos,  which  so  commingled  with  the  uncreated 
body  of  Christ  that  the  two  distinct  natures  formed  one 
heterogeneous  substance  entirely  sui generis.  (See  Har- 
vey, On  the  Creeds,  ii,  G45.)  “Both  Noetus  and  Apolli- 
naris denied  that  the  Word  was  made  man  of  the  Vir- 
gin by  the  Holy  Ghost;  the  earlier  heretic  teaching 
that  there  was  no  real  hypostatic  distinction  in  the  De- 
ity, the  latter  supposing*  that  the  flesh,  as  an  eternally 
uncreated  body,  came  down  from  heaven.  Both  denied; 


INCARNATION 


536 


INCARNATION 


for  the  same  reason,  the  inseparable  union  of  two  per-  ' 
feet  natures  in  one  person;  both  denied  that  Christ  was 
perfect  man : the  Patripassian,  no  less  than  the  Apolli- 
narian,  having  considered  that  the  divine  nature  sup- 
plied the  place  of  a human  soul”  (Harvey,  Creeds , ii, 
649). 

9.  Xestorianism  (about  428)  furnished  the  knotted 
root  from  which  sprang  ultimately  the  antagonist  here- 
sies of  the  Monopliysites  and  Monothebtes.  To  the 
phrase  Storoicoc,  mother  of  God , applied  to  the  Virgin, 
Nestorius  took  exception,  maintaining  that  Mary  had 
given  birth  to  Christ,  and  not  to  God.  Thus  arose  the 
long-protracted  controversy  respecting  the  two  natures 
of  Christ  (Socrates,  Eccl.  Hist,  vii,  ch.  xxxii).  Nesto- 
rius  maintained  that  a divine  and  human  nature  dwelt 
in  Christ  as  separate  entities,  but  in  closest  connection — 
ovvcHbtia ; to  use  the  figure  of  Wangemann,  “ as  boards 
are  glued  together.”  His  own  admission,  “Divido  natu- 
ras  sed  conjungo  reverentiam,”  justified  the  allegation 
brought  against  his  doctrines  that  Christ  is  really  a 
double  being.  The  humanity  of  Christ  was  the  temple 
for  the  indwelling  (ivoimjoig)  of  Deity  upon  the  sepa- 
rate basis  of  personality  in  his  human  nature. 

10.  Monophysitism  (about  44G). — The  doctrine  of  Nes- 
torius,  that  there  must  be  two  natures  if  there  be  two 
persons  in  Christ,  led  Eutyclies,  by  the  law  of  contrari- 
eties, to  an  exact  counterpart,  that  there  is  but  one  per- 
son in  Christ,  and  this  one  person  admits  of  but  one  na- 
ture. The  logic  was  the  same  in  both  heresies.  Liddon 
has  properly  said,  “ The  Monophysite  formula  practical- 
ly made  Christ  an  unincarnate  God;”  for,  according  to 
Monophysitism,  the  human  nature  of  Christ  had  been 
absorbed  in  the  divire.  “We  get,  as  it  were,  a Christ 
with  two  heads:  an  image  which  produces  the  impres- 
sion not  merely  of  the  superhuman,  but  of  the  mon- 
strous, and  which  is  incapable  of  producing  any  moral 
effect”  (Martensen,  Christian  Dogmatics,  sec.  136).  Soon 
after  the  condemnation  of  this  error  by  the  fourth  Gen- 
eral Council  at  Chalcedon,  it  branched  out  into  ten  lead- 
ing sects,  whence  it  has  been  called  “ the  ten-homed.” 

11.  Monothclitism  (about  625).— The  controversy  over 
the  heresy  of  Monophysitism  was  prolonged  for  centu- 
ries. In  the  midst  of  the  contest,  the  idle  curiosity  of 
the  emperor  Ileraclius  led  him  to  propound  the  question 
to  his  bishops  “ Whether  Christ,  of  one  person  but  two 
natures,  was  actuated  by  a single  or  double  will”  (Wad- 
dington,  Ch.  History,  i,  355).  The  question  met  with  a 
ready  response,  but  it  was  the  response  of  error.  It  was 
said  in  reply  that  a multiplicity  of  wills  must  of  neces- 
sity imply  a multiplicity  of  willers.  This  is  the  postu- 
late of  Monothelitism.  In  maintenance  of  the  unity  of 
Christ’s  nature,  they  held  that  in  him  was  only  one  will 
or  energy,  and  that  this  was  a divinely  human  will  (iv- 
epytta  Oiavdpiici]').  (For  a statement  of  the  orthodox 
view  of  the  divine  and  human  will  of  Christ,  see  Lid- 
don’s  Hampton  Leet.  v,  392.)  The  sixth  General  Coun- 
cil at  Constantinople,  A.D.  680,  decided  in  favor  of  the 
Dvothelitic  doctrine,  while  it  anathematized  the  Mono- 
thelitcs  and  their  views. 

12.  Adoptianism  (about  787).  — The  incessant  and 
fierce  strife  of  the  early  Church  with  respect  to  the  na- 
ture of  Christ  finally  culminated  in  the  A doptian  contro- 
versy. According  to  the  views  of  this  sect,  in  his  di- 
vine nature,  Christ  is  the  true  Son  of  God ; but  as  re- 
spects his  human  nature,  he  is  the  Son  of  God  only  by 
adoption  — “his  divinity  according  to  the  former  was 
proper,  but  according  to  the  latter  nature  nominal  and 
titular”  (Herzog, Encyklop.). 

13.  Socinianism,Unitarianism , and  Rationalism  present 
no  new  phase  of  heresy.  They  are  simply  resurrected 
forms  of  error  that  had  again  and  again  been  refuted 
It  may  be  questioned  whether  the  inventive  mind  of 
German  Neology  has  presented  upon  the  incarnation 
any  feature  of  error  essentially  new.  The  subtle  minds 
of  Arius,  Sabellius,  and  other  kindred  philosophers  of 
the  early  Church  have  explored  every  avenue  of  doubt, 
and  left  no  new  openings  into  which  heretical  error  can 


possibly  thrust  itself.  The  most  that  modern  specula- 
tions have  done  has  been  to  revivify  dead  theories  of 
the  past,  and  clothe  them  with  “the  empty  abstractions 
of  impersonal  idea.”  See  Curistology,  vol.  ii,  p.  282. 
As  a fair  illustration  of  the  mystical  speculations  with 
which  the  metaphysical  theology  of  modern  Germany 
has  overlaid  the  doctrine  of  the  incarnation,  we  quote 
from  Hegel  (iieligionsphilosophie,  ii,  2G1) : “That  which 
first  existed  was  the  idea  in  its  simple  universality,  the 
Father;  the  second  is  the  particular,  the  idea  in  its 
manifestation,  the  Son — to  wit,  the  idea  in  its  external 
existence,  so  that  the  external  manifestation  is  changed 
into  the  first,  and  known  as  the  divine  idea,  the  identity 
of  the  divine  with  the  human.  The  third  is  this  con- 
sciousness, God  as  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  this  spirit  in  his 
existence  is  the  Church.”  According  to  Lessing,  “ This 
doctrine  (of  the  Trinity)  will  lead  human  reason  to  ac- 
knowledge that  God  cannot  possibly  be  understood  to 
be  one  by  that  reason  to  which  all  finite  things  are  one; 
that  his  unity  must  also  be  a transcendental  unity  which 
does  not  exclude  a kind  of  plurality.”  To  Schelling 
“it  is  clear  that  the  idea  of  Trinity  is  absurd,  unless  it 
be  considered  on  speculative  grounds The  incar- 

nation of  God  is  an  eternal  incarnation and  by  Fichte 
the  Son  is  regarded  as  God  attaining  to  a conscious- 
ness of  himself  in  man.  See,  farther,  Hagenbach,  Hist, 
of  Doctrines , ii,  384-420.  Marheineke,  who  in  theolog- 
ical obscurities  was  an  apt  disciple  of  his  master  Hegel, 
thus  discourses  of  the  incarnation  ( Gnmdlehren  d.  Christ- 
lichen  Dogmatik,  § 325, 326)  : “ As  spirit,  by  renouncing 
individuality,  man  is  in  truth  elevated  above  himself, 
without  having  abandoned  the  human  nature ; as  spirit 
renouncing  absoluteness,  God  has  lowered  himself  to  hu- 
man nature,  without  having  abandoned  his  existence  as 
divine  Spirit.  The  unity  of  the  divine  and  human  na- 
ture is  but  the  unity  in  that  Spirit  whose  existence  is 
the  knowledge  of  the  truth  with  which  the  doing  of 
good  is  identical.  This  spirit,  as  God  in  the  human  na- 
ture, and  man  in  the  divine  nature,  is  the  God-man. 
The  man  wise  in  divine  holiness,  and  holy  in  divine 
wisdom,  is  the  God-man.  As  a historical  fact,  this  un- 
ion of  God  with  man  is  manifest  and  real  in  the  person 
of  Jesus  Christ ; in  him  the  divine  manifestation  has  be- 
come perfectly  human.  The  conception  of  the  God- 
man,  in  the  historical  person  of  Jesus  Christ,  contains  in 
itself  two  phases  in  one : First,  that  God  is  manifest  only 
through  man,  and  in  this  relation  Christ  is  as  yet  placed 
on  an  equality  with  all  other  men;  he  is  the  Son  of 
Man,  and  therein  at  first  represents  only  the  possibility 
of  God  becoming  man ; secondly,  that  in  this  man,  Je- 
sus Christ,  God  is  manifest  as  in  none  other;  this  man- 
ifest man  is  the  manifest  God;  but  the  manifest  God  is 
the  Son  of  God,  and  in  this  relation  Christ  is  God’s  Son ; 
and  this  is  the  actual  fulfilment  of  the  possibility  or 
promise;  it  is  the  reality  of  God  becoming  man.”  For 
farther  quotations  from  German  nationalists,  see  Man- 
sel , Limits  of  Religious  Thought,  p.  154-163,378-383. 

While,  as  respects  the  question  of  antecedency,  the 
propriety  of  introducing  Swedenborg  in  the  company  of 
Rationalists  might  be  questioned,  we  regard  his  views 
on  the  incarnation  as  entitling  him  to  consideration  in 
this  connection.  “ He  taught  that,  instead  of  a trinity 
of  persons  (set  forth  in  the  symbols  of  the  Church),  we 
must  hold  a trinity  of  the  person,  by  which  he  under- 
stood that  that  which  is  divine  in  the  nature  of  Christ 
! is  the  Father,  that  the  divine  which  is  united  to  the 
human  is  the  Son , and  the  divine  which  proceeds  from 
him  is  the  Holy  Spirit ,”  etc.  (Hagenbach,  Hist  of  Doct. 
ii,  419).  For  the  literature  of  Rationalism  and  its  po- 
lemics, consult  Hagenbach,  Encyclop.  dtr  Theologischen 
Wissenchaften,  p.  90-93.  We  cannot  but  suggest  that 
all  speculations  upon  the  incarnation,  which  on  the  one 
hand  rob  Christ  of  his  divinity  as  the  true  God,  or  on 
the  other  of  his  humanity  as  truly  man,  subject  them- 
• selves  to  the  severe  strictures  of  Coleridge  (TForA’s,  Am, 
edit.  v.  552 ; comp,  also  v,  447) : “ That  Socinianism  is 
| not  a religion,  but  a theory,  and  that,  too,  a very  pemi- 


INCARNATION 


537 


INCARNATION 


clous  theory,  or  a very  unsatisfactory  theory— perni- 
cious, for  it  excludes  all  our  deep  and  awful  ideas  of  the 
perfect  holiness  of  God,  his  justice,  and  his  mercy,  and 
thereby  makes  the  voice  of  conscience  a delusion,  as 
having  no  correspondent  in  the  character  of  the  legis- 
lator; . . . . unsatisfactory,  for  it  promises  forgiveness 
without  any  solution  of  the  difficulty  of  the  compatibil- 
ity of  this  with  the  justice  of  God;  in  no  way  explains 
the  fallen  condition  of  man,  nor  offers  any  means  for  his 
regeneration.  ‘ If  yon  will  be  good,  you  will  be  happy,’ 
it  says.  ‘That  may  be, but  my  will  is  weak;  I sink  in 
the  struggle.’ ” We  may  even  adduce  the  trenchant 
sarcasm  of  llume,  “To  be  a philosophical  sceptic  is  the 
first  step  towards  becoming  a sound  believing  Chris- 
tian,” which,  interpreted  in  plainer  phrase,  is,  “He  who 
comes  to  Christ  must  first  believe  he  is  not.”  (Consult 
Martenseu,  Dogmatics , § 137.) 

IX.  Additional  Texts  illustrative  of  the  Subject.  — 1. 
Prophecies  of  Christ  incarnate. — Gen.  iii,  15,  The  seed 
of  the  woman;  xlviii,  16, The  angel;  xlix,  10,  Shiloh; 
Deut.  xviii,  18,  19,  The  prophet  like  unto  Moses;  Job 
xix,  23-27,  The  Redeemer  that  liveth;  xxxiii,  23,  The 
Angel  intercessor;  Psa.  ii,  6,  7,  The  Sonship  declared: 
xvi,  10,  11,  The  Holy  One  free  from  corruption;  xxii, 
The  sufferings  of  the  Messiah ; xxiv,  7-10,  Jehovah  of 
glory,  with  1 Cor.  ii,  8 ; xlv,  The  perpetuity  and  glory 
of  his  kingdom ; lxxii,  xl,  6-10,  A body  prepared  for  the 
Messiah;  cx,  Messiah  the  Lord,  Priest,  Conqueror;  cx, 
l,with  Matt,  xxii, 42-45 ; Prov.  viii,  ix,  n^H,  Wisdom 
personified;  Isa.  vi,  1-3,  As  Lord  of  hosts,  John  xii,  41 ; 
Isa.  vii,  14;  viii,  10,  The  Virgin’s  child,  named  Imman- 
uel ; ix,  5,  6,  Attributes  of  Deity  ascribed  to  the  child  to 
be  born ; xi,  1-10,  Messiah  from  the  root  of  Jesse ; xxxii, 
1-5,  The  blessings  of  Christ’s  kingdom ; xl,  3,  As  Jeho- 
vah, with  Matt,  iii,  3;  xlii,  1-5,  The  office  of  Christ; 
xliv,  6,  As  Jehovah  the  first  and  the  last,  with  Rev.  i, 
17 ; Iii,  13-15;  liii,  The  sufferings,  death,  and  burial  of 
Christ  ; Jcr.  xxiii,  5,6;  xxxiii,  15,  16,  The  Lord  our 
righteousness,  with  1 Cor.  i,  30 ; Ezck.  i,  26,  The  appear- 
ance of  a man  upon  the  throne;  Dan.  vii,  13, 14,  The 
glory  of  the  Sou  of  Man  ; Joel  ii,  28-32,  Christ  the  Sav- 
iour, with  Acts  ii,  17,  21 ; Micah  v,  2-4,  The  birthplace 
of  Christ  foretold ; Hag.  ii,  6-9,  The  desire  of  all  nations ; 
Zech.  iii, 8;  vi,  12, 13, The  Branch;  xii,  10;  xiii,  l,The 
opening  of  a fountain  for  sin ; xiii,  7,  The  shepherd  to  be 
smitten ; Mai.  iii,  1,  The  Lord  to  eome  to  his  Temple, 
with  Luke  ii,  27,  etc. ; Matt,  i,  18-25;  Luke  i,  30-38;  ii. 
Circumstances  of  Christ’s  birth ; xxii,  43,  David  calling 
Christ  Lord;  Luke  xxiv,  19,  44,  Christ  interpreting 
prophecy  concerning  liimself. 

2.  The  dirinitg  of  Christ  in  the  New  Test. — John  i ; iii, 
13, 31 ; v,  17,  27, 31, 36 ; vi,  33-63 ; viii,  5,  6,  58 ; x,  24- 
38;  xii,  41;  xiv,  1,0-14,20;  xvii,  3;  xix,  36;  xx,  28; 
Acts  ii,  34;  vii,  59, 60;  x,  36;  xx,  28;  xiii,  33;  Rom.  i, 
4;  ix,  5;  xi,36;  xiv,  10-12;  1 Cor.  ii,8;  viii,  6;  xv,47; 
2 Cor.  iv,  4 ; Gal.  iv,  4, 5 ; Eph.  i,  10,  23 ; iv,  24 ; Phil,  ii, 
6-8,9-11;  iii,  21;  Col.  i,  3, 15-19 ; ii.  9, 10 ; iii, 10,11;  1 
Tim.  iii,  16;  Tit.  ii,  13,  with  IIos.  i,  7 ; Heb.  i,  2-12;  ii, 
14-18;  iii,  1-5;  iv,  16;  v,  7-9;  ix,  11  ; x,  20;  xiii,  8; 
Jas.  ii,  7 ; 1 Pet.  iii,  18 ; 2 Pet.  i,  1 ; 1 John  i,  1-3 ; iii,  8 ; 
iv,  2,9,  14;  v,  19,20;  Jude  4;  Rev.  i,  4-17;  ii,8;  vii,  17; 
xxii,  1, 16,34,  etc. 

3.  The  humanity  of  Christ. — Matt,  i,  18;  ii,  2;  iv,  2; 
viii,  20,  24;  xvi,  i3;  xxii,  42;  xxvi,  67;  xxvii,  26,  59, 
60;  Mark  iv,38;  x,47;  xv,  46;  Luke  i,  31;  ii,  7, 11,21, 
52;  iii,  23;  xxii,  64;  xxiii,  11 ; John  i,  14;  iv,  2,  6,  7; 
vii,  27;  xi.  33,35;  xii,  27;  xix,  1,  28,  30;  xx,  27;  Acts 
ii,  22, 31;  iii,  15,  22;  xiii,  23;  Rom.  i,  3;  Gal.  iii,  16;  iv, 
4 ; Phil,  ii,  7,  8 ; 2 Tim.  ii,  8 ; Heb.  ii,  14, 17 ; vii,  26, 28 ; 
1 John  i,  12;  iii,  5;  iv,  3 ; 2 John  7,  etc. 

X.  Literature.  — Athanasius,  De  Incarnatione  Dei 
Verbi  et  contra  Arianos,  in  Opp.  (ed.  Patavii,  1777),  i, 
695  sq. ; Tertullian,  Opera  (1695,  fol.),  p.  307  sq. ; Cvrill. 
Hierosol.  De  Christo  Incarnato,  in  Opera  (1763,  fob),  p. 
162  sq.;  Cyril!.  Alexandrinus,  De  Ifiearnatione  Vnigeniti, 
in  Opera  (1638,  fob),  v,  1 ; Hilary,  De  Trinitate  (Paris, 
1631),  bk.  ii,  p.  17  sq. ; Chrysostom,  Hovdlia  (“  In  prin- 


cipio  erat  Verbum”),  in  Opera , xii,  571;  Zanchius,  De 
Incarnatione  Villi  Dei,  in  Opera  (1619,  folio),  viii,  1 ; 
Gregory  Nazianzcn,  O ratio  in  natiritatem  Christi  (transl. 
by  11.  S.  Boyd,  in  The  Fathers  not  Papists,  18,34);  G.  F. 
Baur,  Die  Chr.  Lehre  v.  d.  Dreieinigkeit  u.  Menschwerd- 
ung  Gottes  (Tubingen,  1841) ; Johann  Aug.  Ernesti,  De 
Dignitate  et  Veritute  Incamationis  Filii  lki,  in  his 
Opuscula  Theologica  (1792);  Gass,  Geschichte  der  Prot. 
Dogm.  i,  111  sq.;  A.  Hahn,  Lehrbucli  (les  christlichen 
Glaubens  (1828),  p.  448  sq.;  Duguet, Principes  de  la  Foi 
Chretienue,  and  responses  to  Renan’s  Vie  de  Jesu,  by  his 
countrymen  Freppel,  Bp.  Plan  tier,  and  Poujoulat;  J.  A. 
Dorner,  Enticicklungsyeschichte  der  Lehre  fiir  die  Person 
Christi,  i,  passim;  ii,  51  sq.,  432-442,  591  sq.  (transl.  also 
in  Clark’s  Lib.) ; Thomasius,  Christi  Person  and  Werk 
(Erlangen,  1857)  ; J.  P.  Lange,  Leben  Jcsu , ii,  66  sq. ; 
Karl  Werner,  Geschichte  der  A pologetischen  und  Polemi- 
schen  Liter atur  der  Christlichen  Tlieologie  (1861),  i,  387 
sq.,  566  sq.;  ii,  175  sq. ; M.  F.  Sadler,  Kmnumud,  or  the 
Incarnation  of  the  Son  of  God  the  Foundation  of  immu- 
table Truth  (1867);  John  Owen,  XpiaroXoyia,  or  a Dec- 
laration of  the  glorious  Mystery  of  the  Person  of  Christ 
God  and  Man  (Lond.  1826),  xii,  1-343;  Pearson,  On  the 
Creed ; Burnet,  On  the  39  .4  r deles,  Art.  ii ; Archbishop 
Usher,  Immanuel,  or  the  Mystery  of  the  Incarnation  of 
the  Son  of  God  (Lond.  1648,  fob) ; Thos.  Goodwin,  Christ 
the  Mediator,  in  Works  (1681,  fob),  iii,  1-427 ; R.  J.  Wil- 
berforce,  Doct.  of  the  Incam.  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
in  its  Relation  to  Mankind  and  the  Church  ; Edward  Ir- 
ving, The  Doctrine  of  the  Incarnation  opened  (in  Ser- 
mons) ; Robt.  Turnbull,  Theophany,  or  the  Manifestation 
of  Goil  in  Christ  Jesus ; John  Farrer,  Bampton  Lecture 
(1803),  p.  59  sq. ; Robert  Fleming,  The  Logauthropos,  or 
a Discourse  concerning  Christ  as  the  Logos  (Lond.  1705), 
vol.  ii  of  Christology ; Thomas  Bradbury,  Mystery  of 
Godliness  considered  in  61  Sermons  (Edinb.  1795) ; Wm. 
Sherlock,  Vindication  of  the  Doctrine  of  the  Trinity  and 
the  Incarnation  of  the  Son  of  God  (Loud.  1691) ; Marcus 
Dods,  On  the  Incarnation  of  the  Eternal  Word,  with  ree. 
notice  by  Dr.  Thomas  Chalmers  (2d  ed.  1849) ; Bib.  Rep. 
1832,  p.  1 ; 1849,  p.  636  sq.;  Brownson’s  Quart.  Rev.  see. 
series,  iv,  136;  v,  137  sq. ; vi,  287  sq.;  Church  Rev.  iv, 
428  sq. ; Biblioth.  Sacra,  xi,  729 ; xii,  52;  xxiv,  41  sq. 
(an  able  art.  on  the  theory  of  Incarnation,  April,  1854) ; 
Methodist  Quart.  Rev.  1851,  p.  114;  1866,  p.  290;  Kitto’s 
Journal  of  Sacred  Literature,  first  series,  iii,  107-113; 
Theological  Eclectic,  ii,  184;  Massillon.  “Les  caracteres 
de  la  grandeur  de  Jesus  Christ,”  in  Oeuvres  Completes, 

vi,  107 ; on  1 Cor.  ii,  7,  8 ; vii,  89;  Bp.  Stillingflcot,  Ser- 
mons (1690),  iii,  336  ; Bossuet,  three  Sermons,  Oeuvres, 

vii,  1 ; Bp.  Atterbury,  Sermons,  iv,  61 ; Joseph  Benson, 
Sermons,  ii,  604 ; Arch  lip.  Tillotson,  (fol.  ed.).  i,  431 ; Bp. 
Beveridge,  Works,  ii,  564;  Bp.  Horne,  Disc,  i,  193;  Bp. 
Van  Mildert,  U orfo,  v,  359;  J.  11.  Newman,  Sermons,  ii, 
29 ; C.  Simeon,  TPbrfo,  xix,  170 ; Richard  Duke,  The 
Divinity  and  Humanity  of  Jesus  Christ  (17301,  p.  29; 
Thomas  Arnold,  Sermon  on  1 Tim.  iii,  10,  at  Rugby 
(1833)  p.  Ill ; W.  A.  Butler,  The  Mystery  of  the  Holy 
Incarnation  (Amer.  ed.).  i,  58;  George  Rawlinson,  Ser- 
mon on  John  i,  11,  p.  1 ; Riggenbach,  Sermon  on  the  Per- 
son of  Jesus  Christ,  transl.  in  Foundations  of  our  Faith , 
p.  100.  For  other  sermons  on  the  incarnation,  see  Dar- 
ling’s Cyclopaedia  Bibliograplnca,  eol.  1059,  1063,  1064, 
1546, 1547, 1595-1597 ; also  Malcolm’s  Theol.  Index,  p.2M. 
Compare  Stanlev,  East.  Ch.  p.  279, 352 ; Baptist  Quart . 
1870  (Julv);  .4  mer.  Ch.  R»v.  1870,  p.  82 ; A m.  Presb.  Rev. 
1869,  p.  324;  Bib.  Sac.  1870,  p.  1 ; Mercersb.  Rev.  1858, 
p.  419 ; Brit,  and  For.  Ev.  Rev.  1861  (Jan.,  art.  iv) ; 1866 
(Jan.) ; 1868  (July) ; Theol.  Eclect.  iii,  167 ; Bullet.  Theol. 
1867  (Jan.),  p.  23  sq.  See  also  references  to  the  subject, 
more  or  less  extensive,  in  Lives  of  Christ,  by  Sepp,  Kuhn, 
Baumgarten,  Ewald,  Van  Osterzee,  Neander,  Jeremy 

- Taylor,  Ellicott,  Prcssense',  Young,  Andrews;  Lichten- 
stein’s Jesus  Christus,  Abriss  seines  Lebens,  in  Herzog’s 
Rea l-Encyklop.  vol.  vi ; also  Bibliography  of  Life  of  Je- 
sus in  Hase’s  Leben  Jesu  (Lpz.  1854) ; also  Literature  un- 
der Christology,  vol.  ii,  p.  284.  (J.  K.  Ib) 


o38 


INCENSE 


IN  CARTUL  ATI 

Incartulati,  a term  for  the  certificates  of  liberation 
I'iven  to  serfs  or  slaves  of  churches  and  monasteries  who 
were  liberated. — I’ierer,  Univ.  Lex.  viii,  841. 

Incastratura  (sepulcrum)  is  a name  in  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church  for  a small  place  in  the  altar-stones  set 
apart  for  the  storage  of  saints’  relics.— Fierer,  Univ.  Lex. 
viii,  841. 

Incensarium  (or  Incensorium)  is  the  name  of  the 
vessel  used  in  the  Romish  and  some  of  the  Oriental 
churches  for  containing  the  incense  to  be  burned.  See 
Incense. 

Xncensation  is  the  lighting  and  burning  of  the  in- 
cense. See  Incense. 

Incense  (Fll'l-p,  ketorah',  Deut.  xxxiii,  10 ; usu- 
ally rnbp,  keto'reth,  which  is  once  applied  likewise  to 
th c/at  of  rams,  being  the  part  always  burned  in  sacri- 
fice; once  "ipp,  Utter',  Jer.  xliv,  21;  all  forms  of  the 
verb  1I3p,  prop,  to  smoke , hence  to  cause  an  odor  by 
burning,  often  itself  applied  to  the  act  of  burning  in- 
cense; Greek,  Bvpiapa  and  cognate  terms;  sometimes 
!l3*2b,  leboncih',  Isa.  xliii,  23;  lx,  6;  lxvi,  3;  Jer.  vi, 
20;  xvii,26;  xli,  ^.frankincense,  as  elsewhere  rendered), 
a perfume  which  gives  forth  its  fragrance  by  burning, 
and,  in  particular,  that  perfume  which  was  burned  upon 
the  Jewish  altar  of  incense.  (See  Weimar,  De  suffitu 
aromatum,  Jen.  1678.)  See  Altar.  Indeed,  the  burn- 
ing of  incense  seems  to  have  been  considered  among 
the  Hebrews  so  much  of  an  act  of  worship  or  sacred  of- 
fering that  we  read  not  of  any  other  use  of  incense  than 
this  among  them.  Nor  among  the  Egyptians  do  we 
discover  any  trace  of  burned  perfume  except  in  sacer- 
dotal use ; but  in  Persian  sculptures  we  see  incense 
burned  before  the  king.  The  offering  of  incense  has 
formed  a part  of  the  religious  ceremonies  of  most  an- 
cient nations.  The  Egyptians  burned  resin  in  honor  of 
the  sun  at  its  rising,  myrrh  when  at  its  meridian,  and 
a mixture  called  kuphi  at  its  setting  (Wilkinson,  Ane. 
Egypt,  v,  315).  Plutarch  ( De  Is.  et  Os.  c.  lii,  lxxx)  de- 
scribes kuphi  as  a mixture  of  sixteen  ingredients.  “In 
the  temple  of  Siva  incense  is  offered  to  the  Lingarn  six 
times  in  twenty-four  hours”  (Roberts,  Oriental  Illust.  p. 
368).  It  was  also  an  element  in  the  idolatrous  worship 
of  the  Israelites  (Jer.  xi,  12,  17;  xlviii,  35;  2 Chron. 
xxxiv,  25). 

1.  The  incense  employed  in  the  service  of  the  taber- 
nacle was  distinguished  as  Dnp3!l  TpCp  ( ketureth 
lias-sammim ; Exod.xxv,  6,  incense  of  the  aromas ; Sept. 
>)  ovnSfo ic  tov  Svfua/uctTOQ ; Yulg.  tliymiamata  boni 
odores;  A.Y.  “sweet  incense”).  The  ingredients  of  the 
sacred  incense  are  enumerated  with  great  precision  in 
Exod.  xxx,  34,  35 : “ Take  unto  thee  sweet  spices,  stac- 
te  (t]23,  nataph),  and  onvclia  (rbtr;;,  sheelieletli),  and 
galbanmn  (i!322n}  ehelbenah ) ; these  sweet  spices  with 
pure  frankincense  (nssb,  lebonah) : of  each  shall  there 
be  a like  weight.  And  tlion  shalt  make  of  it  a perfume, 
a confection  after  the  art  of  the  apothecary,  tempered 
together,  pure  and  holy.”  See  each  of  these  ingredients 
in  its  alphabetical  place.  All  incense  which  was  not 
made  of  these  ingredients  was  called  mi  IHilip  (ke- 
t or  ah  surah),  “ strange  incense,”  Exod.  xxx,  9,  and  was 
forbidden  to  be  offered.  According  to  Raslii  on  Exod. 
xxx,  34,  the  above-mentioned  perfumes  were  mixed  in 
equal  proportions,  seventy  manehs  being  taken  of  each. 
They  were  compounded  by  the  skill  of  the  apothecary, 
to  whose  use,  according  to  Rabbinical  tradition,  was  de- 
voted a portion  of  the  Temple,  called,  from  the  name  of 
the  family  whose  especial  duty  it  was  to  prepare  the 
incense,  “ the  house  of  Abtines.”  So  in  the  large  tem- 
ples of  India  “ is  retained  a man  whose  chief  business  it 
is  to  distil  sweet  waters  from  flowers,  and  to  extract  oil 
from  wood,  flowers,  and  other  substances”  (Roberts,  Ori- 
ental Illust.  p.  82).  The  priest  or  Levite  to  whose  care 
the  incense  was  intrusted  was  one  of  the  fifteen  d*,'3*l‘2?3 


( memunnim ),  or  prefects  of  the  Temple.  Constant  watch 
was  kept  in  the  house  of  Abtines  that  the  incense  might 
always  be  in  readiness  (Buxtorf,  Lexicon  Talmud,  s.  v. 
03nI32S<).  In  addition  to  the  four  ingredients  already 
mentioned,  Jarchi  enumerates  seven  others,  thus  making 
eleven,  which  the  Jewish  doctors  affirm  were  communi- 
cated to  Moses  on  Mount  Sinai.  Josephus  (Bar, v,  5, 
5)  mentions  thirteen.  The  proportions  of  the  addi- 
tional spices  are  given  by  Maimonides  (Ceie  hammik- 
dash,  ii,  2,  § 3)  as  follows : of  myrrh,  cassia,  spikenard, 
and  saffron,  sixteen  manehs  each  ; of  eostus,  twelve  ma- 
nehs; cinnamon,  nine  manehs;  sweet  bark,  three  ma- 
nehs. The  weight  of  the  whole  confection  was  368  ma- 
nehs. To  these  was  added  the  fourth  part  of  a cab  of 
salt  of  Sodom,  with  amber  of  Jordan,  and  an  herb  called 
“ the  smoke-raiser”  (')1^3?  !"!:>"£,  maaleh  dshdn),  known 
only  to  the  cunning  in  such  matters,  to  whom  the  secret 
descended  by  tradition.  In  the  ordinary  daily  service 
one  maneh  was  used,  half  in  the  morning  and  half  in 
the  evening.  Allowing,  then,  one  maneh  of  incense  for 
each  day  of  the  solar  year,  the  three  manehs  which  re- 
mained were  again  pounded,  and  used  by  the  liigh- 
priest  on  the  day  of  atonement  (Lev.  xvi,  12).  A store 
of  it  was  constantly  kept  in  the  Temple  (Joseph.  War, 
vi,  8,  3).  The  further  directions  are  that  this  precious 
compound  should  be  made  or  broken  up  into  minute 
particles,  and  that  it  should  be  deposited,  as  a very  holy 
thing,  in  the  tabernacle  “before  the  testimony”  (or  ark). 
As  the  ingredients  are  so  minutely  specified,  there  was 
nothing  to  prevent  wealthy  persons  from  having  a sim- 
ilar perfume  for  private  use : this,  therefore,  was  for- 
bidden under  pain  of  excommunication  : “ Ye  shall  not 
make  to  yourselves  according  to  the  composition  there- 
of: it  shall  be  unto  thee  holy  for  the  Lord.  Whoso- 
ever shall  make  like  unto  that,  to  smell  thereto,  shall 
even  be  cut  off  from  his  people”  (ver.  37,  38).  So  in 
some  part  of  India,  according  to  Michaelis  ( Mosaisches 
Recht,  art.  249),  it  was  considered  high  treason  for  any 
person  to  make  use  of  the  best  sort  of  calambak,  which 
was  for  the  service  of  the  king  alone.  The  word  which 
describes  the  various  ingredients  as  being  “tempered 
together”  literally  means  salted  (J-fepp,  menndlacli). 
The  Chaldee  and  Greek  versions,  however,  have  set  the 
example  of  rendering  it  by  mixed  or  tempered , as  if  their 
idea  was  that  the  different  ingredients  were  to  be  mixed 
together,  just  as  salt  is  mixed  with  any  substance  over 
which  it  is  sprinkled.  Ainsworth  contends  for  the  lit- 
eral meaning,  inasmuch  as  the  law  (Lev.  ii,  13)  express- 
ly says,  “With  all  thine  offerings  thou  shalt  offer  salt.” 
In  support  of  this  he  cites  Maimonides,  who  affirms  that 
there  was  not  anything  offered  on  the  altar  without 
salt,  except  the  wine  of  the  drink-offering,  and  the 
blood,  and  the  wood ; and  of  the  incense  he  says,  still 
more  expressly,  that  “ they  added  to  it  a cab  of  salt.” 
In  accordance  with  this,  it  is  supposed,  our  Saviour 
says.  “Every  sacrifice  shall  be  salted  with  salt”  (Mark 
ix,  49).  Ainsworth  further  remarks : “ If  our  speech  is 
to  be  always  with  grace,  seasoned  with  salt,  as  the  apos- 
tle teaches  (Col.  iv,  6),  how  much  more  should  our  in- 
cense, our  prayers  unto  God,  be  therewith  seasoned  1” 
It  is  difficult,  however,  to  see  how  so  anomalous  a sub- 
stance as  salt  could  well  be  combined  in  the  prepara- 
tion ; and  if  it  was  used,  as  we  incline  to  think  that  it 
was,  it  was  probably  added  in  the  act  of  offering.  See 
Salt.  The  expression  II; 2 12  ( bad  bebaeT),  Exod. 
xxx,  34,  is  interpreted  by  the  Chaldee  “weight  by 
weight,”  that  is,  an  equal  weight  of  each  (comp.  Jarchi, 
ad  loc.)  ; and  this  rendering  is  adopted  by  our  version. 
Others,  however,  and  among  them  Aben-Ezra  and  Mai- 
monides, consider  it  as  signifying  that  each  of  the  spices 
was  separately  prepared,  and  that  all  were  afterwards 
mixed. 

2.  Aaron,  as  high-priest,  was  originally  appointed  to 
offer  incense,  but  in  tne  daily  service  of  the  second  Tem- 
ple the  office  devolved  upon  the  inferior  priests,  from 
among  whom  one  was  chosen  by  lot  (Mishna,  Yoma , ii, 


INCENSE 


539 


INCENSE 


4;  Luke  i,  9)  each  morning  and  evening  (Abarbanel,  On 
Lev.  x,  1).  A peculiar  blessing  was  supposed  to  be  at- 
tached to  this  service,  and  in  order  that  all  might  share 
in  it,  the  lot  was  cast  among  those  who  were  “ new  to 
the  incense,”  if  any  remained  (Mishna,  Yoma,  1.  c. ; Bar- 
tenora,  On  Tumid , v,  2).  Uzziah  was  punished  for  his 
presumption  in  attempting  to  infringe  the  prerogatives 
of  the  descendants  of  Aaron,  who  were  consecrated  to 
burn  incense  (2  Cliron.  xxvi,  16-21 ; Joseph.  Ant.  ix,  10, 
4).  The  officiating  priest  appointed  another,  whose  of- 
fice it  was  to  take  the  fire  from  the  brazen  altar.  Ac- 
cording to  Maimonides  ( Tumid  Umits,  ii,  8;  iii,  5),  this 
fire  was  taken  from  the  second  pile,  which  was  over 
against  the  S.E.  corner  of  the  altar  of  burnt-offering, 
and  was  of  fig-tree  wood.  A silver  shovel  (iinn^ 
mack t ah)  was  first  filled  with  the  live  coals,  and  after- 
wards emptied  into  a golden  one,  smaller  than  the  for- 
mer, so  that  some  of  the  coals  were  spilled  (Mishna, 
Tumid,  v,  5 ; Yoma,  iv,  4 ; comp.  Rev.  viii,  5).  Another 
priest  cleared  the  golden  altar  from  the  cinders  which 
had  been  left  at  the  previous  offering  of  incense  (Mish- 
ua,  Tumid,  iii,  6, 9 ; vi,  1). 

The  times  of  offering  incense  were  specified  in  the 
instructions  first  given  to  Moses  (Exod.  xxx,  7, 8).  The 
morning  incense  was  offered  when  the  lamps  were  trim- 
med in  the  holy  place,  and  before  the  sacrifice,  when  the 
watchman  set  for  the  purpose  announced  the  break  of 
day  (Mislina,  Yoma,  iii,  1,  5).  When  the  lamps  were 
lighted  “between  the  evenings,”  after  the  evening  sac- 
rifice and  before  the  drink-offerings  were  offered,  in- 
cense was  again  burnt  on  the  golden  altar  which  “ be- 
longed to  the  oracle”  (1  Kings  vi,  22),  and  stood  before 
the  veil  which  separated  the  holy  place  from  the  Holy 
of  Holies,  the  throne  of  God  (Rev.  viii,  4;  Philo,  De 
Anim.  idon.  § 3). 

When  the  priest  entered  the  holy  place  with  the  in- 
cense, all  the  people  were  removed  from  the  Temple, 
and  from  between  the  porch  and  the  altar  (Maimonides, 
Tumid  Umus,  iii,  3 ; compare  Luke  i,  10).  The  incense 
was  then  brought  from  the  house  of  Abtines  in  a large 
vessel  of  gold  called  T'2  ( caph ),  in  which  was  a phial 
(“pT3,  bazik,  properly  ua  sulver ”)  containing  the  incense 
(Mislina,  Tumid,  v,  4).  The  assistant  priests  who  at- 
tended to  the  lamps,  the  clearing  of  the  golden  altar 
from  the  cinders,  and  the  fetching  fire  from  the  altar  of 
burnt-offering,  performed  their  offices  singly,  bowed  to- 
wards the  ark  of  the  covenant,  and  left  the  holy  place 
before  the  priest,  whose  lot  it  was  to  offer  incense,  en- 
tered. Profound  silence  was  observed  among  the  con- 
gregation who  were  praying  without  (comp.  Rev.  viii, 
1),  and  at  a signal  from  the  prefect  the  priest  cast  the 
incense  on  the  fire  (Mislina,  Tumid,  vi,  3),  and,  bowing 
reverently  towards  the  Holy  of  Holies,  retired  slowly 
backwards,  not  prolonging  his  prayer  that  he  might  not 
alarm  the  congregation,  or  cause  them  to  fear  that  he 
had  been  struck  dead  for  offering  unworthily  (Lev.  xvi, 
13;  Luke  i,  21;  Mislina,  Yoma,  v,  1).  When  he  came 
out  he  pronounced  the  blessing  in  Numb,  vi,  24-26,  the 
“magrephah”  sounded,  and  the  Levites  burst  forth  into 
song,  accompanied  by  the  full  swell  of  the  Temple  mu- 
sic, the  sound  of  which,  say  the  Rabbins,  could  be  heard 
as  far  as  Jericho  (Mishna,  Tumid,  iii,  8).  It  is  possible 
that  this  may  be  alluded  to  in  Rev.  viii,  5.  The  priest 
then  emptied  the  censer  in  a clean  place,  and  hung  it 
on  one  of  the  horns  of  the  altar  of  burnt-offering.  See 
Censer. 

On  the  day  of  atonement  the  service  was  different. 
The  high-priest,  after  sacrificing  the  bullock  as  a sin- 
offering  for  himself  and  his  family,  took  incense  in  his 
left  hand,  and  a golden  shovel  filled  with  live  coals  from 
the  west  side  of  the  brazen  altar  (Jarchi.  On  Lev.  xvi, 
12)  in  his  right,  and  went  into  the  Holy  of  Holies.  He  i 
then  placed  the  shovel  upon  the  ark  between  the  two  j 
bars.  In  the  second  Temple,  where  there  was  no  ark,  a 
stone  was  substituted.  Then,  sprinkling  the  incense 
upon  the  coals,  he  stayed  till  the  house  was  filled  with  j 


smoke,  and,  walking  slowly  backwards,  came  without  the 
veil,  where  he  prayed  for  a short  time  (Maimonides, 
Yom  hakkippur,  quoted  by  Ainsworth,  On  Lev.  xvi ; 0u- 
tram,  l)e  Sacrificiis , i,  8,  § 11).  See  Atonement,  Day 
of. 

3.  With  regard  to  the  symbolical  meaning  of  incense, 
opinions  have  been  many  and  widely  different.  While 
Maimonides  regarded  it  merely  as  a perfume  designed 
to  counteract  the  cflluvia  arising  from  the  beasts  which 
were  slaughtered  for  the  daily  sacrifice,  other  interpret- 
ers have  allowed  their  imaginations  to  run  riot,  and  vied 
with  the  wildest  speculations  of  the  Midrasliim.  Philo 
( Quis  rer.  div.  her.  sit.  § 41,  p.  501)  conceives  the  stacte 
and  onycha  to  be  symbolical  of  water  and  earth  ; galba- 
num  and  frankincense  of  air  and  fire.  Josephus,  follow- 
ing the  traditions  of  his  time,  believed  that  the  ingredi- 
ents of  the  incense  were  chosen  from  the  products  of 
the  sea,  the  inhabited  and  the  uninhabited  parts  of  the 
earth,  to  indicate  that  all  things  are  of  God  and  for  God 
(li  ar,  v,  5,  5).  As  the  Temple  or  tabernacle  was  the 
palace  of  Jehovah,  the  theocratic  king  of  Israel,  and  the 
ark  of  the  covenant  his  throne,  so  the  incense,  in  the 
opinion  of  some,  corresponded  to  the  perfumes  in  which 
the  luxurious  monarchs  of  the  East  delighted.  It  may 
mean  all  this,  but  it  must  mean  much  more.  Grotius, 
on  Exod.  xxx,  1,  says  the  mystical  signification  is  sur- 
sura  habenda  corda.”  Cornelius  a Lapide,  on  Exod. 
xxx,  34,  considers  it  as  an  apt  emblem  of  propitiation, 
and  finds  a symbolical  meaning  in  the  several  ingredi- 
ents. Fairbairn  ( Typology  of  Scripture,  ii,  320),  with 
many  others,  looks  upon  prayer  as  the  reality  of  which 
incense  is  the  symbol,  founding  his  conclusion  upon  l’sa. 
cxli,  2;  Rev.  v,  8;  viii,  3,  4.  Biilir  (Symb.  d.  Mos.  Cidt. 
vol.  i,  c.  vi,  § 4)  opposes  this  view  of  the  subject  on  the 
grouad  that  the  chief  thing  in  offering  incense  is  not 
the  producing  of  the  smoke,  which  presses  like  prayer 
towards  heaven,  but  the  spreading  of  the  fragrance. 
11  is  own  exposition  may  be  summed  up  as  ibllows. 
Prayer,  among  all  Oriental  nations,  signifies  calling 
upon  the  name  of  God.  The  oldest  prayers  consisted  in 
the  mere  enumeration  of  the  several  titles  of  God.  The 
Scriptnre  places  incense  in  close  relationship  to  prayer, 
so  that  offering  incense  is  synonymous  with  worship. 
Hence  incense  itself  is  a symbol  of  the  name  of  God. 
The  ingredients  of  the  incense  correspond  severally  to 
the  perfections  of  God,  though  it  is  impossible  to  decide 
to  which  of  the  four  names  of  God  each  belongs.  Per- 
haps stacte  corresponds  to  ilIPP  (Jehovah),  onycha  to 
(Elohim),  galbanum  to  “in  (chat),  and  frankin- 
cense to  ( kddush ).  Such  is  Biihr’s  exposition  of 

the  symbolism  of  incense,  rather  ingenious  than  logical. 
Looking  upon  incense  in  connection  with  the  other  cer- 
emonial observances  of  the  Mosaic  ritual,  it  would  rath- 
er seem  to  be  symbolical,  not  of  prayer  itself,  but  of 
that  which  makes  prayer  acceptable,  the  intercession  of 
Christ.  In  Rev.  viii,  3,  4,  the  incense  is  spoken  of  as 
something  distinct  from,  though  offered  with,  the  pray- 
1 ers  of  all  the  saints  (comp.  Luke  i,  10) ; and  in  Rev.  v,  8 
it  is  the  golden  vials,  and  not  the  odors  or  incense,  which 
are  said  to  be  the  prayers  of  saints.  Psa.  cxli,  2,  at  first 
sight,  appears  to  militate  against  this  conclusion ; but  if 
it  be  argued  from  this  passage  that  incense  is  an  em- 
blem of  prayer,  it  must  also  be  allowed  that  the  even- 
ing sacrifice  has  the  same  symbolical  meaning. — Kitto ; 
Smith.  See  Perfume. 

IXCENSE,  Christian.  The  use  of  incense  in  wor- 
ship was  not  carried  over  from  the  Jewish  to  the  Chris- 
tian Church;  yet  it  is  still  employed,  with  other  super- 
stitious usages,  in  the  Romish  Church,  and  in  some  of 
the  Oriental  churches.  The  incense  used  is  either  the 
resinous  gum  olibanum,  brought  from  Arabia  or  the 
East  Indies,  or  an  imitation  of  it  manufactured  by  the 
chemists.  The  latter  is  most  common  now.. 

1.  It  is  certain  that  incense  was  not  used  in  the  first 
three  ages  of  the  Christian  Church.  Indeed  the  use  of 
it  was  a mark  of  paganism,  as  is  fully  evinced  by  the 


INCEST 


540 


INCEST 


enactments  of  the  Christian  emperors  against  its  use. 
“ The  very  places  or  houses  where  it  could  be  proved  to 
have  been  done  were,  by  a law  of  Theodosius,  confis- 
cated by  the  government”  (comp.  Gothof,  De  Statu  Pa- 
gan. sub.  Christ.  Imper.  leg.  12).  A few  grains  of  in- 
cense thrown  by  a devotee  upon  a pagan  altar  constituted 
an  act  of  worship.  The  apologists  for  Christianity,  Ar- 
nobius  ( Contra  Gent.  2),  Tertulliau  (Apol.  30),  and  Lac- 
tantius  (i,  20),  make  distinct  and  separate  statements 
that  “ Christians  do  not  burn  incense”  like  pagans.  It 
appears  likely  that  the  use  of  incense  was  first  begun  in 
order  to  purify  the  air  of  the  unwholesome  chambers, 
caverns,  etc.,  in  which  Christians  were  compelled  to 
worship,  just  as  candles  were  employed  necessarily, 
even  by  day,  in  subterranean  places.  Even  Komanist 
writers  (e.  g.  Claude  de  Yert)  assert  this.  Cardinal 
Bona,  indeed  (Res  Liturgic.  i,  25),  seeks  to  derive  the 
use  of  incense  in  worship  from  apostolical  times,  but  his 
argument  is  worthless.  The  principal  argument  of  the 
Romanists  rests  upon  Rev.  v,  8:  “Golden  vials  full  of 
odors,  which  are  the  prayers  of  saints;”  as  if  anything 
could  be  argued,  for  practical  worship,  from  the  highly 
symbolical  language  of  that  beautiful  passage.  Censers 
are  not  mentioned  among  the  sacred  vessels  of  the  first 
four  centuries.  The  first  clear  proof  of  the  use  of  in- 
cense at  the  communion  occurs  in  the  time  of  Gregory 
the  Great,  in  the  latter  part  of  the  6th  century.  After 
that  period  it  became  common  in  the  Latin  Church. 
Its  mystical  representation  is,  according  to  Roman  Cath- 
olic authorities,  (1)  contrition  (Eccles.  xlv);  (2)  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  (2  Cor.  ii,  14);  (3)  the  prayers 
of  the  faithful  (Psa.  cxli,  2 ; Rev.  v,  8-24) ; (4)  the  vir- 
tue of  saint3  (Cant,  iii,  6).  See  above.  Incense  is 
chiefly  used  in  the  solemn  (or  high)  mass,  the  conse- 
cration of  churches,  solemn  consecrations  of  objects  in- 
tended for  use  in  public  worship,  and  in  the  burial  of 
the  dead.  There  are,  however,  also,  minor  incensations, 
and  some  of  the  monastic  associations  even  differed  in 
its  use.  Thus  the  Cistercians  used  incense  only  on  fes- 
tivals, while  the  Benedictines  and  Clugniacs  introduced 
its  use  on  most  public  occasions. 

2.  The  censer  (thuribulum)  is  a brazen  pot  holding 
coals  on  which  the  incense  burns.  The  censer  is  held 
by  three  chains,  varying  in  length,  but  generally  about 
three  feet  long.  "When  longer,  the  use  of  them  by  the 
boys  who  act  as  censer-bearers  becomes  quite  a feat  of 
gymnastics.  During  the  mass,  the  incense  is  thrown 
over  the  altar  and  over  the  “ sacrificing  priests”  by  the 
deacon  who  serves,  kneeling.  The  Roman  writers  jus- 
tify this  incensing  of  the  priest  on  the  theory  that  he 
represents  Christ,  and  that  therefore  the  homage,  typi- 
fied by  the  incense,  is  rendered  to  Christ  through  his 
representative  at  the  altar.  A curious  rule  with  regard 
to  “incensing”  the  pope  is,  that  “when  the  pope  is 
standing,  the  servitor  who  incenses  him  must  stand ; 
when  the  pope  is  sitting,  the  incenser  must  kneel.”  No 
symbolical  or  mystical  meaning  has  been  found  for  this 
oild  rule:  the  real  one  doubtless  is,  that  when  the  pope 
is  standing,  a kneeling  boy  could  not  so  manipulate  the 
censer  as  to  make  the  incense  reach  the  pontiffs  nos- 
trils. Alter  the  altar  and  officiating  priest  arc  incensed, 
the  censer  is  thrown  in  the  direction  of  the  other  priests 
present,  and  last  of  all  towards  the  congregation.  As 
incense  is  a mark  of  honor,  and  as  “ human  vanity  creeps 
in  everywhere”  (Bergier,  s.v.  Enccns),  kings,  great  men, 
and  public  officials  are  incensed  separately,  and  before 
the  mass  of  the  people.  See  Bergier,  Diet,  de  Theolo - 
gie,  ii,  423;  Migne,  Diet,  de  Liturgie,  p.  535  sq. ; Bing- 
ham, Grig.  Eccles.  book  viii,  ch.  vi,  § 21 ; Coleman,  An- 
cient Christianity,  xxi,  12;  Walcott,  Sacred  Archer  ology, 
p.325  sq.;  Adolphus,  Compendium  Theologieum,  p.  74  : 
Broughton,  Bibliotheca  IHst.  Sacra,  i,  527 ; Middleton, 
Letter  from  Rome,  p.  15 ; Riddle,  Christian  Antiq.  p.  599 
sq. ; Siegel,  Handb.  der  Christl.-Kirchl.  Altertkiimer,  ii, 
441  sq.  See  Censer. 

Incest  (Lat.  in,  not ; castus,  chaste),  the  crime  of 
sexual  commerce  with  a person  within  the  degrees  for- 


bidden by  the  (Levitical)  law  (see  Trier,  De  legibus  Mo* 
saicis  de  incestu,  Ercft.  a.  Oder,  1726).  See  Affinity- 
Consanguinity.  “An  instinct  almost  innate  and  uni- 
versal,” says  Gibbon  ( Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman 
Empire,  iv,  351),  “appears  to  prohibit  the  incestuous 
commerce  of  parents  and  children  in  the  infinite  series 
of  ascending  and  descending  generations.  Concerning 
the  oblique  and  collateral  branches,  nature  is  indifferent, 
reason  mute,  and  custom  various  and  arbitrary.  In 
Egypt,  the  marriage  of  brothers  and  sisters  was  admit- 
ted without  scruple  or  exception ; a Spartan  might  es- 
pouse the  daughter  of  his  father,  an  Athenian  that  of 
his  mother;  and  the  nuptials  of  an  uncle  with  his  niece 
were  applauded  at  Athens  as  a happy  union  of  the  dear- 
est relations.  The  profane  lawgivers  of  Rome  were 
never  tempted  by  interest  or  superstition  to  multiply 
the  forbidden  degrees;  but  they  inflexibly  condemned 
the  marriage  of  sisters  and  brothers,  hesitated  whether 
first  cousins  should  be  touched  by  the  same  interdict, 
revered  the  parental  character  of  aunts  and  uncles,  and 
treated  affinity  and  adoption  as  a just  imitation  of  the 
ties  of  blood.  According  to  the  proud  maxims  of  the 
republic,  a legal  marriage  could  only  be  contracted  by 
free  citizens ; an  honorable,  at  least  an  ingenuous  birth, 
was  required  for  the  spouse  of  a senator;  but  the  blood 
of  kings  could  never  mingle  in  legitimate  nuptials  with 
the  blood  of  a Roman ; and  the  name  of  ‘ stranger’  de- 
graded Cleopatra  and  Berenice  to  live  the  conctebines  of 
Mark  Antony  and  Titus.”  Yortigern,  king  of  South 
Britain,  equalled,  or,  rather,  excelled  the  Egyptians  and 
Persians  in  wickedness  by  marrying  his  own  daughter. 
The  queen  of  Portugal  was  married  to  her  uncle ; and 
the  prince  of  Brazil,  the  son  of  that  incestuous  mar- 
riage, wedded  his  aunt.  But  they  had  dispensations 
for  these  unnatural  marriages  from  his  holiness.  “In 
order,”  says  Paley,  “to  preserve  chastity  in  families, 
and  between  persons  of  different  sexes  brought  up  and 
living  together  in  a state  of  unreserved  intimacy,  it  is 
necessary,  by  every  method  possible,  to  inculcate  an  ab- 
horrence of  incestuous  conjunctions ; which  abhorrence 
can  only  be  upheld  by  the  absolute  reprobation  of  all 
commerce  of  the  sexes  between  near  relations.  Upon 
this  principle  the  marriage,  as  well  as  other  cohabita- 
tion of  brothers  and  sisters  of  lineal  kindred,  and  of  all 
who  usually  live  in  the  same  family,  may  be  said  to  be 
forbidden  by  the  law  of  nature.  Restrictions  which  ex- 
tend to  remoter  degrees  of  kindred  than  what  this  rea- 
son makes  it  necessary  to  prohibit  from  intermarriage 
are  founded  in  the  authority  of  the  positive  law  which 
ordains  them,  and  can  only  be  justified  by  their  tenden- 
cy to  diffuse  wealth,  to  connect  families,  or  to  promote 
some  political  advantage.”  The  Roman  law  calls  inces- 
tuous connection  Incestus  juris  gentium,  while  it  desig- 
nates as  Incestus  juris  drills  the  intercourse  between 
other  members  of  the  families  which  it  considers  within 
the  forbidden  degrees.  The  principal  law  against  in- 
cest, however,  is  the  Lex  Jidia  de  adulteriis  coercendis 
of  Augustus.  Children  born  of  incest  ( liberi  incestuosi) 
are  by  it  bastardized.  The  canon  law  extended  the  for- 
bidden degrees  very  far.  thus  giving  a more  extended 
signification  to  the  appellation  of  incest.  By  it  a dis- 
tinction was  made  between  the  Incestus  juris  divini,  re- 
lating to  such  degrees  of  relationship  as  were  already 
condemned  by  the  Mosaic  law,  and  the  Incestus  juris 
humani,  relating  only  to  such  degrees  within  which 
marriage  is  forbidden  by  ecclesiastical  laws.  But  as 
in  the  latter  case  dispensations  can,  in  the  Romish 
Church,  always  be  obtained,  this  form  of  incest  is  mere- 
ly considered  an  offense  against  the  laws  of  the  Church, 
The  penal  statute  of  Charles  Y concerning  incest  is  based 
on  the  Roman  law,  but  includes  also  cohabitation  with 
a daughter-in-law,  a step-daughter,  and  a mother-in- 
law.  Consequently  incest,  properly  so  called,  can  only 
take  place  between  ascendants  and  descendants,  brothers 
and  sisters,  parents-in-law  and  cliildren-in-law,  step- 
parents and  step-children.  Prosecution  for  incest,  how- 
ever, is  legal  only  in  cases  where  persons  have  had  sex- 


INCHANTMENT 


541 


IN  CCENA  DOMINI 


ual  intercourse  without  marriage ; it  is  inapplicable 
where  marriage  has  been  contracted  in  good  faith,  and 
only  afterwards  the  contractors  become  aware  of  their 
connection  being  incestuous.  Modern  law,  which  in 
the  main  is  based  on  the  Levitical,  and  from  which  the  ; 
rule  of  the  Iioman  law  differs  very  little,  prohibits  mar- 
riage between  relations  within  three  degrees  of  kindred  ; 
computing  the  generations  not  from,  but  through  the 
common  ancestor,  and  accounting  affinity  the  same  as 
consanguinity.  The  issue,  however,  of  such  marriages 
are  not  bastardized  unless  the  parents  be  divorced  dur- 
ing their  lifetime.  Penalties  are  enacted  for  incest  and 
unchastity  varying  from  simple  imprisonment  to  hard 
labor  for  a term  of  live  or  six  years.  Sexual  intercourse 
between  parties  in  different  degrees  of  the  collateral 
lines  is  in  many  cases  considered  only  as  punishable 
by  the  police  regulations.  The  ascendants  are  generally 
punished  more  severely  than  the  descendants.  The 
modern  Jews  permit  the  marriage  of  cousins,  and  even 
of  the  uncle  by  a niece.  See  Pierer,  Universal  Lexi- 
hon,  viii,  841 ; Palev,  Moral  Philosophy , i,  BIG  sq. ; Buck, 
Theological  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

INCEST,  Spiritual,  an  ideal  crime  committed  be- 
tween two  persons  who  have  a spiritual  alliance,  by 
means  of  baptism  or  confirmation.  This  ridiculous  fan- 
cy was  made  use  of  as  an  instrument  of  great  tyranny  in 
times  when  the  power  of  the  pope  was  unlimited,  even 
queens  being  sometimes  divorced  upon  this  pretence. 
Incest  spiritual  is  also  understood  of  a vicar  or  other 
beneficiary  who  holds  two  benefices,  one  whereof  de- 
pends upon  the  collation  of  the  other.  Such  spiritual 
incest  renders  both  the  one  and  the  other  of  these  bene- 
fices vacant. — Henderson’s  Buck. 

Inchantment.  See  Enchantment. 

Inchofer,  Melchior,  a German  Jesuit,  was  born  at 
Vienna  or  at  Giinz  (Hungary)  in  1584.  lie  entered  the 
Society  of  Jesus  in  1G07,  and  studied  philosophy,  math- 
ematics, and  theology  at  Messina,  where  he  afterwards 
instructed.  In  1G3G  he  went  to  Rome,  and  became  a 
member  of  the  Congregation  of  the  Index  and  of  the 
Holy  Office,  but  was  called  from  thence  to  the  college 
at  Macerata  in  1G4G.  He  died  in  1G48  at  Milan.  His 
principal  works  are  Epistohe  /?.  J Juries  ad  Messanenses 
veritas  viudicata  (1629): — Historia  saerce  Latinitatis 
(1G36):  — Annales  ecclesiastici  regni  Hungariie  (1G44) 
(incomplete).  Under  the  pseudonyme  of  Eugenius  La- 
vande  Ninevensis  he  defended  his  order  and  its  educa- 
tional system  against  the  attacks  of  Scioppius  (Schopp), 
in  refutation  of  whom  he  wrote  several  pamphlets  (1638- 
1041).  He  was  also  believed  to  be  the  author  of  the 
Monarchia  Solipsorum  (Venice,  1G52;  French  transla- 
tion, Amst.  1722, 12mo) ; but  Oudin  proved,  in  an  edition 
of  Niceron,  that  this  work  is  the  production  of  count 
Scotti  of  Piacenza,  who  entered  the  order  in  1016,  but 
became  discontented,  and  retired  from  it  in  1G45.  See 
Niceron,  Minn. pour  servir,  etc.,  xxxv,  322-34G ; xxxix, 
165-230;  Herzog,  Real-Encyldop.  vi,  G48;  llavle,  Hist. 
Diet,  iii,  5G3  sq. ; Theol.  Unit'.  Lex.  i,  405. 

Incineratio  is  a name  in  the  Romish  Church  for 
the  consecration  of  a certain  quantity  of  ashes,  and  the 
sprinkling  of  them  over  the  heads  of  the  officiating  cler- 
gy and  the  worshipping  congregation,  with  the  follow- 
ing admonition,  pronounced  by  the  officiating  priest: 
“ Memento  quod  cinis  es,  et  in  cinerem  reverteris”  (Re- 
member that  dust  thou  art,  and  unto  dust  thou  shalt  re- 
turn). The  custom  is  believed  to  have  originated  with 
Gregory  the  Great  (towards  the  close  of  the  Gth  cen- 
tury),  but  it  was  not  fully  established  till  towards  the 
end  of  the  12th  century,  when  it  received  the  sanction 
of  pope  Celestine  III.  Gregory  the  Great  is  in  all  prob- 
ability also  the  founder  of  Ash- Wednesday,  which  is 
supposed  to  derive  its  name  from  the  above  ceremonial 
service  generally  performed  on  that  day.  See  Riddle, 
Christian  Antiquities,  p.  GG7 ; Siegel,  Handb.  d.  Christ.- 
Kirchl.  Alterth.  i,  141 ; Eadie,  Decks.  Diet.  p.  324.  See 
Ashes  ; Asn- Wednesday. 


Incipientes  (beginners)  is  one  of  the  names  by 
which  the  catechumens  of  the  early  Christian  Church 
were  called.  See  Catechumens. 

Inclination  is  the  propensity  of  the  mind  to  any 
particular  object  or  action ; a kind  of  bias  by  which  it 
is  carried  towards  certain  actions  previous  to  the  exer- 
cise of  thought  and  reasoning  about  the  nature  and  con- 
sequences of  them.  Inclinations  are  of  two  kinds,  nat- 
ural or  acquired.  1.  Natural  are  such  as  we  often  see 
in  children,  who  from  their  earliest  years  differ  in  their 
tempers  and  dispositions.  Of  one  we  may  say  he  is 
naturally  revengeful ; of  another,  that  he  is  patient  and 
forgiving.  2.  Acquired  inclinations  are  such  as  are  su- 
perinduced by  custom,  which  are  called  habits,  and  these 
are  either  good  or  evil. — Buck,  Theol.  Diet.  See  Hab- 
it; Will. 

Incluse.  See  Anaciiorets. 

In  Coena  Domini  (Lat.  at  the  Lord's  Supper,  the 
opening  words  of  the  document)  is  the  name  of  a cele- 
brated papal  bull.  “It  is  not,  as  other  bulls,  the  work 
of  a single  pope,  but,  with  additions  and  modifications 
at  various  times,  dates  back  from  the  Middle  Ages; 
some  writers  tracing  it  to  Martin  V,  others  to  Clement 
V,  and  some  to  Boniface  VIII.  Its  present  form,  how- 
ever, it  received  from  the  popes  Julius  II  and  Raul  III, 
and,  finally,  from  Urban  VIII,  in  1G27,  from  that  time 
it  continued  for  a century  and  a half  to  be  published 
annually  on  Holy  Thursday,”  whence  its  name;  after- 
wards Easter  Monday  was  substituted.  The  contents 
of  this  bull  have  been  a fertile  subject  of  controversy. 
It  may  be  briefly  described  as  a summary  of  ecclesias- 
tical censures,  especially  against  all  heretical  sects, 
which  are  cursed  in  it  by  their  several  designations,  their 
excommunication  renewed,  and  the  same  punishment 
threatened  to  all  who  shoidd  be  guilty  of  schism,  sacri- 
lege, usurpation  of  the  rights  of  the  Church  or  of  the 
pope,  forcible  and  unlawful  seizure  of  Church  property, 
personal  violence  against  ecclesiastics,  unlawful  inter- 
ruption of  the  free  intercourse  of  the  faithful  with  Rome, 
etc.  The  bull,  however,  although,  as  indicated,  mainly 
dealing  with  offences  against  the  Church,  also  denoun- 
ces, under  similar  censures,  the  crimes  of  piracy,  plun- 
der of  shipwrecked  goods,  forgery,  etc.  This  bull,  being 
regarded  by  most  of  the  crowned  heads  of  Europe  as  an 
infringement  of  their  rights,  was  in  the  17th  century 
opposed  by  nearly  all  the  courts,  even  the  most  Roman 
Catholic;  and  at  length,  in  1770,  according  to  some  au- 
thorities (e.  g.  Ilase,  History  of  the  Christian  Church), 
Clement  XIV  discontinued  its  publication.  Janus 
(Pope  and  Council,  p.  387),  however,  says  that  it  is  still 
treated  in  the  Roman  tribunals  as  having  legal  force, 
and,  according  to  the  accounts  of  some  eminent  travel- 
lers who  have  visited  Rome,  it  appears  that  the  sentence 
of  excommunication  is  still  read,  though  in  a more  sim- 
ple form.  Eliza  von  dcr  Ilecke  ( Tagebuch  einer  Peise 
durch  einen  Theil  Deutschlands  u.  d.  Italien , Berlin,  1817, 
iv,  95),  under  date  of  April  6, 1806,  relates  that  after  the 
pope  had  blessed  the  people  from  the  balcony  of  the 
church  of  St. Peter,  “he  read  out  a paper,  then  tore  it, 
and  threw  the  fragments  down  among  the  people.  A 
great  tumult  then  arose,  even,'  one  striving  to  secure  a 
piece  of  the  paper,  but  I do  not  know  for  what  purpose, 
for,  as  I was  told,  the  paper  contained  nothing  but  the 
form  of  excommunication  always  pronounced  on  this 
occasion  against  all  who  are  not  Romanists.  This  con- 
cluded the  festival.”  This  is  confirmed  by  what  chan- 
cellor Gottling,  of  Jena,  relates  as  having  seen  in  his 
journey  in  1828  (in  Rohr,  Kritische  Predigerbibliotheh , 
xi,  379  sq.).  It  thus  seems  proved  that  the  bull  itself, 
whose  § xxi  says:  “ Volentes  pnesentes  nostros  proces- 
sus ac  omnia  et  qusecunque  his  literis  contenta,  quous- 
que  alii  huiusmodi  processus  a Nobis  ant  Romano-Pon- 
tifice  pro  tempore  existente  fiant  aut  publicentur,  durare 
suosque  effectus  omnino  sortiri,”  is  not  completely  abol- 
ished yet.  No  pope  has  so  far  substituted  a new  bull 
for  the  old,  aud  its  principles  concerning  the  cases  re- 


INDEFECTIBILITY 


IXCOMMUNICxVBLENESS  542 


served  for  the  pope  are  yet  in  full  force.  In  the  Tlis- 
torisck-politische  Blatter  of  Phillips  and  Gorres  (Mu- 
nich, 1847,  vol.  xxi)  we  find  it  stated  that  “ In  foro 
conscientice,  the  bull  is  only  valid  yet  in  so  far  as  its 
stipulations  have  not  in  other  acts  been  altered  by  the 
Church  herself.”  Its  efficiency  in  foro  externo,  so  much 
desired  by  Rome,  is  everywhere  opposed  in  self-defense 
by  the  civil  powers.  For  the  special  history  of  this 
bull,  and  proofs  of  its  present  validity  in  the  Romish 
Church,  see  Biber,  Bull  in  Cana  Domini , transl.  (Lond. 
1848) ; Biber,  Papal  Diplomacy  and  the  Bull  in  Cana 
Domini  (Lond.  1848);  Lebret,  Geschichte  d.  Bidle  (Lpz. 
1768,  4 vols.)  ; Herzog,  Real-Eneyklop.  viii,  843 ; Cham- 
bers, Cyclop,  v,  530 ; Schrockh,  Kirchengesch.  s.  d.  Refor- 
mation, iii,  266, 387 ; Janus,  Pope  and  Council , p.  384  sq. ; 
cardinal  Erskine  to  Sir  J.  C.  Hippisley,  in  Rep.  of  Comm, 
of  House  of  Commons  on  the  Laics  regarding  the  Regula- 
tion of  the  Roman  Cath.  subjects  (1816,  p.  218).  (J.  H.W.) 

Incommunicableness  of  God.  The  divine 
attributes  have  been  variously  divided.  One  of  the  di- 
visions sets  the  attributes  of  God  forth  as  communicable 
and  incommunicable.  As  the  former  are  regarded  such 
attributes  as  can  be  imparted  from  the  Creator  to  the 
creature,  e.  g.  goodness,  holiness,  wisdom,  etc.,  and  as  the 
latter  such  are  counted  as  cannot  be  imparted,  as  inde- 
pendence, immutability,  immensity,  and  eternity.  See 
Dorner,  Person  of  Christ,  div.  ii,  i,  183  sq. ; ii,  193  sq. 
See  also  the  article  God  (Dogmatical  Treatment  of  the 
Doctrine  of),  vol.  iii,  p.  907  sq. 

Incomprehensibility  of  God.  This  is  a rela- 
tive term,  and  indicates  a relation  between  an  object  and 
a faculty;  between  God  and  a created  understanding; 
so  that  the  meaning  of  it  is  this,  that  no  created  under- 
standing can  comprehend  God;  that  is, have  a perfect 
and  exact  knowledge  of  him,  such  a knowledge  as  is  ad- 
equate to  the  perfection  of  the  object  (Job  xi,  7 ; Isa.  xl). 

God  is  incomprehensible,  1.  As  to  the  nature  of  his 
essence ; 2.  The  excellency  of  his  attributes ; 3.  The 
depth  of  his  counsels;  4.  The  works  of  his  providence; 
5.  The  dispensation  of  his  grace  (Eph.  iii,  8 ; Job  xxxvii, 
25 ; Rom.  xi).  The  incomprehensibility  of  God  follows, 
1.  From  his  being  a spirit  endued  with  perfections  great- 
ly superior  to  our  own.  2.  There  may  be  (for  anything 
we  certainly  know)  attributes  and  perfections  in  God  of 
which  we  have  not  the  least  idea.  3.  In  those  perfec- 
tions of  the  divine  nature  of  which  we  have  some  idea, 
there  are  many  things  to  us  inexplicable,  and  with 
which,  the  more  deeply  and  attentively  we  think  of 
them,  the  more  we  find  our  thoughts  swallowed  up,  such 
as  his  self-existence,  eternity,  omnipresence,  etc.  This 
should  teach  us,  therefore,  1.  To  admire  and  reverence 
the  divine  Being  (Zecli.  ix,  17 ; Nell,  ix,  5) ; 2.  To  be 
humble  and  modest  (Psa.  viii,  1,4;  Eccl.  v,  2,  3;  Job 
xxxvii,  19) ; 3.  To  be  serious  in  our  addresses,  and  sin- 
cere in  our  behavior  towards  him.  (Caryl,  On  Job  xxvii, 
25;  Tillotson,  Sermons,  sermon  clvi;  Abernethv,  Ser- 
mons,  vol.  ii,  nos.  6,  7 ; Doddridge,  Lectures  on  Divinity, 
lecture  59;  Martensen,  Dogmatics,  p.  89 ; Buck,  Thcolog. 
Dictionary,  s.  v.)  See  God. 

Incomprehensible.  This  word,  as  occurring  in 
the  English  Prayer-book,  is  understood,  at  the  present 
day,  in  a sense  quite  different  from  what  was  designed 
when  it  was  first  introduced  into  the  formularies.  Thus 
when,  in  the  Athanasian  Creed,  it  is  said,  “The  Father 
incomprehensible,”  etc.,  the  meaning  is,  “the  Father  is 
(immensus,  i.e.)  infinite,”  etc.:  a Being  not  to  be  com- 
prised ( comprehendendus ) within  the  limits  of  space. — 
Eden,  Theol.  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Inconvertibility,  the  quality  of  both  natures  in 
Christ,  which  does  not  admit  of  a change  of  either  into 
the  other. 

Incorpolitus,  a title  in  monasteries  of  the  priest 
who  has  the  administration  of  the  convent  estates,  the 
collection  of  interest  and  other  moneys  due  the  monas- 
tery, etc. 

Incorporation.  The  ineoiporation  of  a church 
benefice  consists  in  its  being  joined  quoad  spiritualia  et 


temporalia  with  a spiritual  corporation,  such,  for  in- 
stance, as  a convent  or  a monastery.  We  find  many 
instances  of  such  incorporations  in  the  9th  century,  and 
they  were  most  generally  the  result  of  efforts  to  increase 
the  revenues  of  the  corporations.  The  modus  operandi 
was  to  abolish  the  separate  office  connected  with  a ben- 
efice, and  to  give  the  temporal  advantages  to  the  cor- 
poration, which  also  added  the  spiritual  offices  connected 
therewith  to  its  other  duties,  supplying  them  with  min- 
isterial services.  For  instance,  a regular  pastor  (pa- 
rochus  principalis)  was  appointed,  who  committed  the 
care  of  souls  to  a vicar  appointed  by  himself,  under 
sanction  of  the  bishop.  This  vicar  then  filled  the  office 
of  cura  animarum  actualis,  whilst  the  convent  or  mon- 
astery had  but  a cura  habitualis.  The  canon  laws  in 
such  cases  soon  prescribed  the  appointment  of  perma- 
nent vicars  ( vicarii  perpetui),  although  in  many  in- 
stances, especially  in  Germany,  many  convents  appoint- 
ed only  temporary  vicars,  and  even  intrusted  the  care 
of  souls  to  members  of  their  order  who  did  not  reside  in 
the  parish.  Essentially  different  from  these  “ plenojure ” 
or  “ utroque  jure"  incorporations  were  exclusively  tem- 
poral imions  of  the  revenues  of  livings  with  spiritual 
corporations,  which  were  also  often  designated  as  incor- 
porationes  quoad  temporalia.  In  these  eases  the  in- 
come only  of  the  livings  went  to  the  convents,  together 
with  all  the  revenues  accruing  therefrom,  they  in  ex- 
change undertaking  to  give  to  the  incumbent  minister 
an  adequate  support  ( portio  congrua).  The  spiritual 
office,  spiritualia,  remained  unaffected  by  this  arrange- 
ment, and  was  filled  by  the  bishop,  according  to  the 
wishes  of  the  convent.  The  numerous  abuses  which 
were  introduced  in  both  these  kinds  of  incorporations 
were  denounced  by  the  Council  of  Trent  (Sess.  7,  c.  7, 
De  reform.').  The  council  also  forbade  the  union  of 
parish  churches  with  convents,  monasteries,  hospitals, 
etc.  (Sess.  24,  c.  13 ; Sess.  7,  De  reform,  c.  6).  In  conse- 
quence of  the  secularization  of  convents  and  monaster- 
ies, the  whole  organization  has  mostly  fallen  into  dis- 
use; the  parish  administrators  are  about  the  only  re- 
mains of  the  incorporation  system.  See  Keller,  Zteja- 
ribus parochi primitiri  (in  Schmid,  Thesaur.jur.  eccl.vi, 
441  sq.)  ; Herzog,  Real-Kncyklopadie,  vi,  649. 

Incorporeality  of  God  is  his  being  without  a 
body.  That  God  is  incorporeal  is  evident ; for,  1.  Mate- 
riality is  incompatible  with  self-existence,  and  God,  be- 
ing self-existent,  must  be  incorporeal.  2.  If  God  were 
corporeal,  he  could  not  be  present  in  any  part  of  the 
world  where  body  is;  yet  his  presence  is  necessary  for 
the  support  and  motion  of  body.  3.  A body  cannot  be 
in  two  places  at  the  same  time ; yet  he  is  everywhere, 
and  fills  heaven  and  earth.  4.  A body  is  to  be  seen  and 
felt,  but  God  is  invisible  and  impalpable  (John  i,  18). 
See  Charnock,  1 Fo  ?■£,<?,  i,  1 1 7 ; Gill,  Body  of  Divinity,  i,  45, 
8vo ; Doddridge,  Lectures  on  Divinity,  lect.  47 ; Buck, 
Theol.  Dictionary,  s.  v.  See  God. 

Incorruptibiles,  an  extreme  sect  of  Eutycliians 
(q.  v.),  who  held  that  the  body  of  Christ  was  incorrupt- 
ible, i.  e.  “ that  from  the  time  that  his  body  was  formed 
it  was  not  susceptible  of  any  change  or  alteration;  that 
he  was  not  even  subject  to  innocent  passions  or  appe- 
tites, sneh  as  hunger  or  thirst,  but  that  he  ate  without 
any  occasion  both  before  his  death  and  after  his  resur- 
rection.”— Farrar,  Bedes.  Diet.  See  Apiitiiaktodoce- 
t^e;  Monoviiysites. 

Incorrupticolae.  See  Incorruptibiles. 

Incredulity.  See  Infidelity;  Unbelief. 

Incumbent,  a clergyman  in  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land who  is  in  present  possession  of  ( incumbit , is  close  to, 
rests  upon,  as  its  immediate  occupant)  a benefice  (Eden). 
Sir  E.  Coke,  however,  says  that  the  title  means  that  the 
clergyman  “in  possession  of  a benefice  ought  diligently 
to  bend  all  his  study  to  the  care  of  his  church.” 

Indefectibility  of  tiie  Church.  This  subject 
has  already  been  alluded  to  in  the  article  Church,  vol. 
ii,  p.  325  (3) ; but  Mr.  Blunt  {Theol.  Cyclop,  i,  340)  has 


INDEFECTIBILITY  543  INDEPENDENCE 


treated  it  so  much  at  length  that  we  insert  his  remarks 
on  this  subject,  which  he  treats  under  the  two  heads  of 
(1)  Perpetuity,  and  (2)  Inerrancy  and  Infallibility.  The 
former,  he  argues,  frees  the  Church  from  failure  in  suc- 
cession of  members;  the  latter  two  free  it  from  failure 
in  holding  and  declaring  the  truth.  “ Both  these  flow 
front  the  constitution  and  nature  of  the  mystical  body 
of  Christ.  The  Scriptures  which  speak  to  this  point 
are  John  xv;  1 Cor.  vi,  15,  19;  xii,  12;  Eph.  i,  23;  iv, 
12;  v,  30;  Col.  i,  18,  and  cannot  be  explained  away  into 
metaphor.  As  Christ’s  natural  body  was  incorruptible, 
and  yet  before  the  resurrection  was  liable  to  human  in- 
firmities (Matt,  viii,  17),  so  his  mystical  body,  yet  un- 
glorified, is  liable  in  each  one  of  its  many  members  to 
sin  and  falling  from  grace;  but  nothing  can  touch  the 
life  of  the  body  itself.  As  also  the  fulness  of  the  Spirit 
dwelt  in  Christ,  and  Christ  was  the  Truth,  so  the  Spir- 
it, by  virtue  of  whose  indwelling  the  body  is  one,  and 
one  with  its  Head,  guides  the  Church  into  all  truth.” 

I.  Perjietuity  of  the  Church.— “ Plain  promises  of  this 
are  made  in  Isa.  lxi,  8,  9;  Dan.  ii,  44;  Matt,  xvi,  18; 
xxviii,  20 ; John  xiv,  16, 17.  There  are  also  arguments 
to  be  drawn  for  it  from  the  consideration  of  God’s  coun- 
sel and  purpose.  The  consummation  of  all  things  is  de- 
layed only  till  God’s  servants  are  sealed  (1  Cor.  xv,  28; 
Rev.  vi,  9-11).  When  faith  foils  in  the  earth,  the  end 
will  be  (Luke  xviii,  8).  This  is  as  regards  God,  in 
whose  work  we  cannot  suppose  an  interruption.  So, 
too,  as  regards  man.  God  will  have  all  men  to  be  saved, 
and  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth.  The  Church, 
which  is  the  pillar  and  ground  of  the  truth,  could  not 
fail  without  a failure  of  God’s  mercy.  So  long  as  there 
are  men  capable  of  salvation  (and  all  men  are  capable 
of  salvation,  since  Christ  died  for  all),  so  long  will  the 
Church  be  preserved,  that  to  it  may  be  added  both  ot 
(Toj^o/ufrot  and  oi  aujQrjaoptvoi.  The  promises  of  God 
are  given  to  the  Church  as  a whole.  Each  branch  of 
the  Church  is  on  its  probation,  as  is  each  individual 
member.  And  the  law  of  probation,  the  law  of  their 
participation  in  the  promise,  is  the  same  : ‘lie  that  hath, 
to  him  shall  be  given.’  To  argue  that  because  each 
particular  church  may  foil,  therefore  the  whole  may  fail, 
is  not  only  a fallacy  in  logic,  but  a denial  of  Christ’s 
power  to  impart  to  the  whole  that  which  he  does  not 
impart  to  each  particular  member.” 

II.  Inerrancy  and  Infallibility  of  the  Church. — “The 
foregoing  promises  and  arguments  show  that  the  Church 
will  not  fail  either  by  dying  out  or  by  apostasy.  As 
the  work  of  the  Spirit  will  not  fail  in  bringing  sons  to 
God,  so  it  will  never  fail  in  providing  that  there  shall 
always  be  a body  persevering  in  the  faith  according  to 
the  election  of  grace.  This  is  to  be  considered  more 
particularly  as  regards  truth  of  doctrine.  For  this,  also, 
there  are  promises,  e.  g.  John  xvi,  13 ; 1 John  ii,  27.  The 
spirit  which  dwells  in  the  Church  is  likewise  declared 
to  be  the  spirit  of  knowledge  and  imderstanding  (Col.  i, 
9;  ii,  3;  iii,  10).  Less  cannot  be  implied  in  these  words 
than  that  the  Church  shall  always  have  a tenure  of  the 
truth  sufficient  for  salvation.  They  show',  further,  that 
any  doctrine  which  can  be  said  to  be  the  deliberately  as- 
certained voice  of  the  Church  must  be  from  God,  whose 
Spirit  is  in  the  Church.  But  they  cannot  be  pressed 
so  for  as  to  prove  that  the  Church  may  not  for  a time 
hold  such  an  error  as  does  not  directly  deny  the  founda- 
tion of  faith,  or  does  not  directly  deny  Christ.  Even 
an  error,  which  by  logical  consequence  denies  the  foun- 
dation of  faith,  is  not  to  be  taken  as  such  a denial.  The 
consequence  may  not  be  perceived,  and  if  perceived  the 
premises  would  be  at  once  rejected.  The  case  is  doubt- 
less of  great  improbability,  but  its  possibility  must  be 
conceded.  When,  then,  can  we  say  that  the  voice  of 
the  Church  is  sufficiently  ascertained?  This  leads  us 
on  from  the  inerrancy,  or  passive  infallibility,  to  the  ac- 
tive infallibility,  or  declaration  of  the  faith.  No  actual 
limits  of  time  can  be  set  for  which,  if  a doctrine  has 
been  held,  it  must  be  considered  as  the  ascertained  de- 
cision of  the  Church.  The  circumstances  of  the  Church 


may  not  be  such  as  to  lead  to  investigation.  Ten  j ears 
in  one  period  may  cause  more  sifting  of  the  truth  than 
a hundred  years  of  another  period.  It  is  the  condition 
of  the  Church  militant  to  be  always  under  trial,  some- 
times by  persecution  from  the  world,  sometimes  by 
blasts  of  contrary  doctrine  within  itself.  In  different 
degrees  these  are  blended,  and  w'ith  very  different  de- 
grees of  speed  will  the  truth  emerge.  The  degree  of 
holiness  also,  and  above  all,  will  regulate  the  discovery 
and  reception  of  truth.  For  knowledge  and  understand- 
ing in  spiritual  things  are  the  flower  and  fruit ; the  plant 
itself  is  holiness  springing  from  the  root  of  faith.  The 
certainty,  then,  of  a doctrine  enunciated  by  the  Church 
is  a growing  certainty,  varying  in  amount  with  the 
time  the  doctrine  has  been  held,  the  degree  of  investi- 
gation to  w'hich  it  has  been  snbjccted,  and  the  degree 
of  holiness  in  the  Church.  Thus  the  decrees  of  a coun- 
cil which  we  may  believe  to  be  oecumenical  can  only  be 
know'll  to  be  the  genuine  voice  of  the  Church  by  their 
acceptance.  We  may  agree  to  the  abstract  proposition 
that  a truly  oecnmenical  council  cannot  err;  but  the 
proposition  is  of  little  practical  value  at  the  time  of 
holding  a council,  for  none  can  prove  that  the  council 
has  not  in  some  respects  failed  of  oeeumenicity.  The 
authority  of  its  decisions  rests  on  their  acceptance.  For 
the  Spirit  of  God  is  given  to  the  whole  body  of  the 
Church;  and  that  can  only  be  known  to  be  the  true 
voice  of  the  Church  which  is  expressed  by  sufficient  de- 
liberation of  generation  after  generation.  In  this  sense 
the  infallibility  of  the  Church  is  a reasonable  doctrine, 
and  one,  in  fact,  which  it  w’ould  be  unreasonable  for  any 
Christian  to  disbelieve.” 

Indefectible  Grace  is,  according  to  the  Calvin- 
ists, grace  wrhich  cannot  be  lost,  or  foil  of  its  intended 
purpose,  the  salvation  of  those  on  whom  it  is  bestowed, 
i.  e.  the  elect,  and  is  held  to  be  irresistible  by  the  person 
so  elected,  thus  necessarily  securing  his  salvation.  See 
Calvinism;  Election;  Grace;  Will. 

Indelible  Character.  See  Character,  Indel- 
ible. 

Indemnity  (Latin  indenmitas,  compensation)  is  in 
some  churches  a pension  paid  to  the  bishop  in  consider- 
ation of  discharging  or  indemnifying  churches,  united 
or  appropriated,  from  the  payment  of  procurations,  or 
by  way  of  recompense  for  the  profits  which  the  bishop 
would  otherwise  have  received  during  the  time  of  the 
vacation  of  such  churches. — Eadie,  Eccles.  Diet.  p.  325. 

Independence  of  Churches.  “ It  is  an  admit- 
ted fact,  as  clearly  settled  as  anything  can  be  by  human 
authority,  that  the  primitive  Christians,  in  the  organ- 
ization of  their  assemblies,  formed  them  after  the  model 
of  the  Jew'ish  synagogue.  . . . They  disowned  the  he- 
reditary aristocracy  of  the  Levitical  priesthood,  and 
adopted  the  popular  government  of  the  synagogue.  . . . 
Their  government  was  voluntary,  elective,  free,  and  ad- 
ministered by  riders  or  ciders  elected  by  the  people. 
The  rider  of  the  synagogue  was  the  moderator  of  the 
college  of  elders,  but  on\y  primus  inter  pares,  holding  no 
official  rank  above  them.  The  people,  as  Vitringa  (De 
Synagoga,  lib.  iii,  pt.  i,  c.  xv,  p.  828-803)  has  shown,  ap- 
pointed their  own  officers  to  rule  over  them.  They  ex- 
ercised the  natural  right  of  freemen  to  enact  and  exe- 
cute their  own  law's,  to  admit  proselytes,  and  to  exclude 
at  pleasure  unworthy  members  from  their  communion. 
Theirs  was  ‘ a democratic  form  of  government,’  and  is 
so  described  by  one  of  the  most  able  expounders  of  the 
constitution  of  the  primitive  churches  (see  Eothe,  .4w- 
fdnge  d.  Christl.  Kirche,  p.  14).  Like  their  prototype, 
therefore,  the  primitive  churches  also  embodied  the 
principle  of  a popular  government  and  of  enlightened 
religious  liberty”  (Coleman,  A postol.  and  Primit.  Ch.  p. 
43  sq.).  The  reason,  however,  why  the  primitive  Chris- 
tians had  this  peculiar  organization,  reintroduced  in  the 
modem  Church  by  the  Congregation alists,  and  in  part 
also  by  the  Presbyterians,  is,  that  the  members  of  the 
early  Christian  Church  mostly  came  from  the  Jewish 


INDEPENDENCY  544  INDEPENDENTS 


Church,  and  naturally  adopted  methods  of  worship,  gov- 
ernment, etc.,  to  which  they  were  accustomed.  But 
this  by  no  means  goes  to  prove  that  it  was  the  inten- 
tion of  the  early  Christians  to  perpetuate  their  mode  of 
government,  hut  rather  that,  engaged  as  Christ  and  his 
disciples  had  been  in  founding  a Church,  needing  no 
other  bond  than  his  own  person,  the  mode  of  govern- 
ment to  which  they  had  been  accustomed  was  chosen 
for  the  time  being,  “the  disciples  not  having  yet  at- 
tained to  a clear  understanding  of  that  call  which  Christ 
had  already  given  them  by  so  many  intimations  to  form 
a Church  entirely  separated  from  the  existing  Jewish 
economy.  . . . We  are  disposed  to  believe  that  the 
Church  was  at  first  composed  entirely  of  members  stand- 
ing on  an  equality  with  one  another,  and  that  the  apos- 
tles alone  held  a higher  rank,  and  exercised  a directing 
influence  over  the  whole,  which  arose  from  the  original 
position  in  which  Christ  had  placed  them  in  relation  to 
other  believers;  so  that  the  whole  arrangement  and  ad- 
ministration of  the  affairs  of  the  Church  proceeded  from 
them,  and  they  were  first  induced  by  particular  circum- 
stances to  appoint  other  church  officers,  as  in  the  Instance 
of  deacons”  (Ncander,  Apostol.  Kirche,  3d  edit.  p.  31, 33 ; 
comp.  p.  179, 195 ; also  Rothe,  A nf tinge,  p.  14G  sq. ; Acts 
vi,  1 ; xi,  30).  Christ  also  evidently  did  make  some  pro- 
vision for  a government  of  bis  Church  on  earth  indepen- 
dent of  Jewish  and  pagan  customs  by  constituting  apos- 
tles, who  should  authoritatively  command  and  teach. 
(See  vol.  ii,  p.  328  sq.)  The  churches  of  the  early  Chris- 
tians also,  unlike  the  Jewish,  were  independent  one  of  the 
other.  History,  sacred  or  profane,  relating  to  this  pe- 
riod, records  not  a single  instance  in  which  one  church 
presumed  to  impose  laws  of  its  own  upon  another.  The 
first  traces  of  associations  between  several  churches,  from 
which  councils  can  be  said  to  have  taken  their  origin, 
we  find  in  the  2d  century  (Coleman,  De  Rebus  Christ. 
saec.  i,  § 43).  Indications  of  this  original  independence 
are  distinctly  manifested  even  after  the  rise  of  the  epis- 
copacy. Every  bishop  had  the  right  to  form  his  own 
liturgy  and  creed,  and  to  settle  at  pleasure  his  own  time 
and  mode  of  celebrating  the  religious  festivals  (compare 
Greiling,  Apostolische  Christengemeine,  p.  1G).  Cyprian 
strongly  asserts  the  right  of  every  bishop  to  make  laws 
for  his  own  church.  Indeed,  it  is  to  this  original  in- 
dependence of  the  churches  from  each  other,  to  the 
want  of  proper  authorities  to  govern  them,  that  Socra- 
tes (Eccles.  Hist.  lib.  v,  c.  xxii)  ascribes  the  endless  con- 
troversies which  agitated  the  Church  in  the  early  ages 
with  regard  to  the  observance  of  certain  festivals,  espe- 
cially Easter.  See,  besides  the  authorities  already  cited, 
Sack,  Comment,  ml  Theol.  Jnstit.  p.  141 ; Bunsen,  Ilippo- 
Igtus  and  his  Age,  iii,  24G;  Dr.  Hitchcock,  in  the  Amer. 
Presb.  Rev.  Jan.  18G7.  See  also  Efiscopacy,  voL  iii, 
p.  2G3,  2G4,  2GG  (iv).  (J.  11.  W.) 

Independency  of  God  is  his  existence  in  and  of 
himself,  without  depending  on  any  other  being.  “ His 
being  and  perfections,”  as  I)r.  Ridgelv  observes  ( Body  of 
Divinity,  p.  7),  “ arc  underived,  and  not  communicated  to 
him,  as  all  finite  perfections  arc  by  him  to  the  creature. 
This  attribute  of  independency  belongs  to  all  his  perfec- 
tions. 1.  lie  is  independent  as  to  his  knowledge.  He 
doth  not  receive  ideas  from  any  object  out  of  himself,  as 
intelligent  creatures  do.  This  is  elegantly  described  by 
the  prophet,  Isa.  xl,  13,  14.  2.  He  is  independent  in 

power.  As  he  receives  strength  from  no  one,  so  he  doth 
not  act  dependently  on  the  will  of  the  creature  (Job 
xxxvi,  23).  3.  He  is  mdependent  as  to  his  holiness, 

hating  sin  necessarily,  and  not  barely  depending  on  some 
reasons  out  of  himself  inducing  him  thereto;  for  it  is  es- 
sential to  the  divine  nature  to  be  infinitely  opposite  to 
sin,  and  therefore  to  be  independently  holy.  4.  He  is  in- 
dependent as  to  his  bounty  and  goodness.  He  commu- 
nicates blessings  not  by  constraint,  but  according  to  his 
sovereign  will.  Thus  he  gave  being  to  the  world,  and 
all  things  therein,  which  was  the  first  instance  of  bounty 
and  goodness;  and  this  not  by  restraint,  but  by  his  free 
will : * for  his  pleasure  they  are  and  were  created.’  In 


like  manner,  whatever  instances  of  mercy  he  extends  to 
miserable  creatures,  he  acts  independently  and  not  by 
force.  He  shows  mercy,  because  it  is  his  pleasure  to  do 
so  (Rom.  ix,  18).  That  God  is  independent,  let  it  be  fur- 
ther considered,  1.  That  all  things  depend  on  his  power 
which  brought  them  into  and  preserves  them  in  being. 
If,  therefore,  all  things  depend  on  God,  then  it  would  be 
absurd  to  say  that  God  depends  on  anything,  for  this 
would  be  to  suppose  the  cause  and  effect  to  be  mutually 
dependent  on  and  derived  from  each  other,  which  in- 
volves a contradiction.  2.  If  God  be  infinitely  above  the 
highest  creatures,  he  cannot  depend  on  any  of  them,  for 
dependence  argues  inferiority  (Isa.  xl,  15, 17).  3.  If  God 
depend  on  any  creature,  he  does  not  exist  necessarily; 
and  if  so,  then  he  might  not  have  been ; for  the  same 
will  by  -which  he  is  supposed  to  exist  might  have  de- 
termined that  he  should  not  have  existed,  which  is  al- 
together inconsistent  with  the  idea  of  a God.  From 
God’s  being  independent,  we  infer,  l.Tliat  w e ought  to 
conclude  that  the  creature  cannot  lay  any  obligation  on 
him,  or  do  anything  that  may  tend  to  make  him  more 
happy  than  he  is  in  himself  (Rom.  xi,  35 ; Job  xxii,  2, 
3).  2.  If  independency  be  a divine  perfection,  then  let 

it  not  in  any  instance,  or  by  any  consequence,  be  attrib- 
uted to  the  creature : let  us  conclude  that  all  our  springs 
are  in  him,  and  that  all  w e enjoy  and  hope  for  is  from 
him,  who  is  the  author  and  finisher  of  our  faith,  and  the 
fountain  of  all  our  blessedness.” — Buck,  Theol.  Diction- 
ary. See  God. 

Independent  Baptists.  See  Baptists. 

Independents,  a name  given  to  certain  bodies  of 
Christians  wrho  assert  that  each  Christian  congregation 
is  independent  of  all  others,  and  from  all  ecclesiastical 
authority  except  its  own.  Some  writers  inaccurately 
use  this  name  as  synonymous  with  “ Congregational- 
ists,”  forgetting  that  the  latter  do  not  claim  the  absolute 
independence  of  individual  character.  “The  churches 
of  New  England  are  congregational.  They  do  not  ap- 
prove the  name  of  ‘ Independent,’  and  are  abhorrent  of 
such  principles  of  independency  as  would  keep  them 
from  giving  an  account  of  their  matters  to  neighboring 
churches,  regularly  demanding  it  of  them”  (Mather). 
See  CoNGKEGATIONADISTS. 

I.  History. — After  the  reformation  of  religion  in  Eng- 
land, the  greater  body  of  Protestants  adopted  the  Epis- 
copal form  of  Church  polity,  and  this  was  finally  estab- 
lished as  the  religion  of  the  nation.  But  the  smaller 
\ bodj'  of  Protestants  opposed  episcopacy  on  the  ground 
that  it  too  nearly  resembled  the  Roman  Catholic  form 
of  Church  polity,  and  these  so-called  Nonconformists 
(q.  v.)  came  to  be  stigmatized  by  the  derisive  name  of 
Puritans,  which  the  followers  of  Novatian  had  borne 
in  the  third  century.  To  this  class  (i.  e.  Noncomform- 
ists)  belong  the  Independents,  who  claim  that  their  sys- 
tem is  substantially  the  same  as  that  of  the  apostolic 
churches,  which  had  been  corrupted  by  the  tendencies 
that  culminated  in  papacy,  and  that  traces  of  dissent 
from  the  episcopal  power  may  be  found  in  every  age 
back  to  the  4th  century  (see  Punchard,  History  of  Con- 
gregationalism). They  are  supposed  to  have  originated 
in  England  about  the  year  1581,  under  the  leadership 
of  Robert  Brown,  bearing  thence  the  name  of  Brownists 
(q.  v.);  but  Richard  Fitz  is  generally  named  as  the  first 
pastor  of  the  first  Independent  church  in  England  (com- 
pare Skeats,  History  of  the  Free  Churches,  p.  23).  The 
persecution  which  they  were  obliged  to  endure  from  the 
Established  Church  soon  necessitated  the  emigration  of 
these  first  Independents,  and  they  removed  to  the  Neth- 
erlands. Deserted  by  Brown,  wrho  conformed,  and  be- 
came an  adherent  of  the  Church  of  England,  they  chose 
as  their  leader  John  Robinson,  to  whom  belongs  the 
chief  merit  of  a better  organization  of  them.  Brown, 
who,  by  the  persecutions  which,  as  a Nonconformist,  he 
had  to  endure,  had  become  greatly  embittered,  had,  with 
hardly  less  bigotry  than  his  persecutors,  declared  all 
other  forms  of  Church  government  not  only  as  inconsis- 
tent, but  denounced  them  in  the  severest  terms,  even 


INDEPENDENTS 


545 


INDEPENDENTS 


branding  them  as  antichristian.  Robinson,  however, 
while  holding  his  own  to  be  the  most  apostolical  form, 
counselled  recognition  of  all  other  forms  and  Christian 
fellowship,  looking  upon  charity  as  the  end  of  the  com- 
mandments. The  names  also  which  they  had  hitherto 
borne  were  now  exchanged  for  that  of  Independents. 
Robinson,  in  his  Apology,  having  affirmed  “ Coetum 
quemlibet  particularcm,  esse  totam,  integram,  ct  perfee- 
tam  ecclesiam  ex  suis  partibus  constantem  immediate  et 
independentem  [quoad  alias  eccl.]  sub  ipso  Christo.”  In 
1010,  a friend  and  colaborer  of  Robinson,  Henry  Jacob, 
returned  to  the  mother  country,  and  organized  an  Inde- 
pendent Church  at  London,  which  has  oftentimes,  though 
incorrectly,  been  termed  “ the  first  Independent  Church 
in  England”  (compare  vol.  ii,  p.  476).  “ From  this,  as  a 

nucleus,  Independency  gradually  spread  through  Eng- 
land, and,  in  spite  of  the  harsh  measures  of  Laud  and 
the  court,  came,  in  the  middle  of  the  17th  century,  to 
occupy  a dominant  place  among  the  powers  by  which 
the  destinies  of  England  were  swayed.” 

A prominent  place  was  occupied  by  the  Independents 
at  the  Westminster  Assembly,  they  taking  an  active 
part  in  the  debates,  especially  on  points  of  Church  or- 
der; “debating  all  things,”  says  Baillie,  “which  came 
within  twenty  miles  of  their  quarters,”  and  evidently 
astonishing  the  “churchmen”  by  their  “great  learning, 
quickness,  and  eloquence,  together  with  their  great 
courtesy  and  discretion  in  speaking.”  Skeats  ( History 
of  the  Free  Churches , p.  52)  asserts  that  at  this  “Assem- 
bly” the  representatives  of  the  Independents,  some  five 
or  six  in  number,  “ prayed  to  be  inducted  into  the  pro- 
posed National  Chinch,  the  conditions  being  that  the 
power  of  ordination  should  be  reserved  to  their  own 
congregations,  and  that  they  might  be  subject,  in 
Church  censures,  to  Parliament,  but  not  to  any  Presby- 
tery.” As  they  were  unsuccessful  in  this  attempt,  how- 
ever, it  is  believed  that,  though  few  in  number,  they 
yet  prevented  the  Presbyterians  from  accomplishing  at 
least  their  object,  standing  “in  the  breach  against  the 
advance  of  a new  State  Church,  which,  if  better  in  many 
respects  than  the  old  (Episcopal),  would  have  been 
worse  in  other  respects.”  But  it  was  only  after  the 
accession  of  Oliver  Cromwell  (himself  an  Independent) 
to  the  protectorate  that  the  Independents  gained  the 
ascendency,  and  became  “the  most  powerful  and  im- 
portant religious  body  in  England”  (compare  Murray, 
Life  of  Samuel  Rutherfor chap.  viii).  The  greatest 
statesmen  of  England  were  Independents;  the  army 
was  Independent  in  the  main;  and  Independent  minis- 
ters held  appointments  as  chaplains,  or  filled  leading 
positions  in  the  universities ; among  them,  most  promi- 
nently, John  Owen,  Thomas  Goodwin,  Nj'e,  etc.  To 
strengthen  the  union  among  themselves,  an  Assembly 
was  decided  to  be  held  at  the  Savoy.  Ministers  and 
delegates  of  more  than  a hundred  congregations  there- 
upon convened,  Sept.  29,  1658,  and  on  Oct.  12  (a  few 
weeks  before  Oliver  Cromwell’s  death)  they  adopted 
and  issued  a confession  of  faith  and  discipline,  which 
was  named  a “ Declaration.”  Of  this  declaration  the 
following  were  fundamental  propositions:  “A  particular 
Church  consists  of  officers  and  members : the.  Lord  Christ 
having  given  to  his  called  ones — united  in  Church  order 
— liberty  and  power  to  choose  persons  fitted  by  the 
Holy  Ghost  to  be  over  them  in  the  Lord.  The  officers 
appointed  by  Christ  to  be  chosen  and  set  apart  by  the 
Church  are  pastors,  teachers,  elders,  and  deacons.  The 
way  appointed  by  Christ  for  the  calling  of  any  person 
unto  the  office  of  pastor,  teacher,  or  elder  in  a church  is 
that  he  be  chosen  thereunto  by  the  common  suffrage  of 
the  Church  itself,  and  solemnly  set  apart  by  fasting  and 
prayer,  with  the  imposition  of  hands  of  the  eldership  of 
that  Church,  if  there  be  any  before  constituted  therein; 
and  of  a deacon,  that  he  be  chosen  by  the  like  suffrage, 
and  set  apart  by  prayer,  and  the  like  imposition ; and 
those  who  are  so  chosen,  though  not  set  apart  after  that 
manner,  are  rightly  constituted  ministers  of  Jesus.  The 
work  of  preaching  is  not  so  peculiarly  confined  to  pas- 
IV.— Mar 


ters  and  teachers  but  that  others  also,  gifted  and  fitted 
by  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  approved  by  the  people,  may 
publicly,  ordinarily,  and  constantly  perform  it.  Ordi- 
nation alone,  without  election  or  consent  of  the  Church, 
doth  not  constitute  any  person  a church  officer.  A 
church  furnished  with  officers,  according  to  the  mind  of 
Christ,  hath  full  power  to  administer  all  his  ordinances; 
and  where  there  is  want  of  any  one  or  more  officers, 
those  that  are  in  the  Church  may  administer  all  the  or- 
dinances proper  to  those  officers  whom  they  do  not  pos- 
sess; but  where  there  are  no  teaching  officers  at  all, 
none  may  administer  the  seals,  nor  can  the  Church  au- 
thorize any  so  to  do.  Whereas  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
hath  appointed  and  instituted,  as  a means  of  edification, 
that  those  who  walk  not  according  to  the  rules  and  laws 
appointed  by  him  be  censured  in  his  name  and  authori- 
ty, every  Church  hath  power  in  itself  to  exercise  and 
execute  all  those  censures  appointed  by  him.  The  cen- 
sures appointed  by  Christ  are  admonition  and  excom- 
munication ; and  whereas  some  offences  may  be  known 
only  to  some,  those  to  whom  they  are  so  known  must 
first  admonish  the  offender  in  private ; in  public  offences, 
and  in  ease  of  non-amendment  upon  private  admonition, 
the  offence  being  related  to  the  Church,  the  offender  is 
to  be  duly  admonished,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  by  the 
whole  Church  through  the  elders;  and  if  this  censure 
prevail  not  for  his  repentance,  then  he  is  to  be  cast  out 
by  excommunication,  with  the  consent  of  the  members.” 
These  particulars  respecting  a declaration  of  faith  but 
little  known  indicate  the  opinions  entertained  by  the 
Independents,  not  only  at  the  time  of  the  Restoration, 
but,  with  some  modification,  afterwards;  and  here  it 
may  be  added  that  if,  in  the  theory  of  Presbyterianism, 
the  ministry,  as  to  the  order  of  existence,  precedes  the 
Church,  in  the  theory  of  Congregationalism,  the  Church, 
in  that  same  order,  precedes  the  minister;  and  in  this 
significant  fact  may  be  found  a key  to  some  important 
differences  between  the  two  systems.  Besides  those 
rules  which  had  reference  to  the  internal  order  of  the 
churches,  there  were  these  three  relative  to  their  dimen- 
sions, their  co-operation,  and  the  catholicity  of  their 
fellowship.  “For  the  avoiding  of  differences,  for  the 
greater  solemnity  in  the  celebration  of  ordinances,  and 
for  the  larger  usefulness  of  the  gifts  and  graces  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  saints,  living  within  such  distances  that 
they  can  conveniently  assemble  for  divine  worship, 
ought  rather  to  join  in  one  Church  for  their  mutual 
strengthening  and  edification  than  to  set  up  many  dis- 
tinct societies.  In  cases  of  difficulties  or  differences,  it 
is  according  to  the  mind  of  Christ  that  many  churches 
holding  communion  together  do,  by  their  managers,  meet 
in  a synod  or  council  to  consider  and  give  advice ; how- 
beit,  these  synods  are  not  intrusted  with  any  Church 
power,  properly  so  called,  or  with  any  jurisdiction  over 
the  churches.  Such  reforming  churches  as  consist  of 
persons  sound  in  the  faith,  and  of  conversation  becom- 
ing the  Gospel,  ought  not  to  refuse  the  communion  of 
each  other,  so  far  as  may  consist  with  their  own  princi- 
ples respectively,  though  they  walk  not  in  all  things 
according  to  the  same  rules  of  Church  order.” 

The  conclusions  at  the  Savoy  meeting  were  not  ec- 
clesiastical canons,  but  simply  united  opinions.  They 
had  no  binding  force.  They  aspired  to  no  higher  char- 
acter than  that  of  counsel  and  advice.  Lest  this  decla- 
ration should  endanger  their  principles,  the  assembly 
took  the  precaution  not  to  invest  it  with  binding  sym- 
bolical authority;  and,  to  guard  against  the  possibility 
of  hierarchical  schemes,  they  further  enacted  that  no 
one  should  be  ordained  without  having  a call  to  some 
particular  congregation.  Similar  precautions  were  also 
taken  by  them  against  all  possible  civil  interference  in 
ecclesiastical  affairs,  except  cases  in  which  Christian 
societies  had  laid  themselves  open  to  investigation  by 
the  civil  authorities  for  the  encouragement  of  civil  dis- 
turbances (comp.  art.  Coxgkegatioxalists,  voL  ii,  p. 
480,  II,  2).  After  the  restoration  of  Charles  II  in  1660, 
and  the  re-establishment  of  episcopacy,  the  IndepeD- 


INDEPENDENTS  546  INDEPENDENTS 


dents,  like  all  other  nonconforming  “ sects,”  suffered 
from  illiberal  enactments,  especially  from  the  “Act  cf  | 
Uniformity,”  which  was  passed  in  1G62.  “ Indepen-  j 

dents  retired  into  obscurity  for  a while  after  the  Resto- 
ration. The  doors  of  buildings  where  they  had  been 
wont  to  assemble  were  nailed  up,  the  pastors  were  driv- 
en out,  flocks  were  scattered,  the  administration  of  or- 
dinances coidd  not  take  place,  and  meetings  could  not  be 
held,  and  communities  which  had  been  prosperous  un- 
der the  Commonwealth  diminished  in  number”  (Stough- 
ton, Eccles.  History  of  England  [ Church  of  the  Restora- 
tion],  ii,  1(14).  The  Act  of  Uniformity,  however,  was  the 
most  severe  of  all  enactments  against  dissenters.  Some 
2000  of  the  ablest  and  best  of  England’s  clergy  were 
forced  to  leave  the  Church.  “ They  included  Presby- 
terians, Independents,  Baptists,  and  not  a few  whom  it 
would  be  difficult  to  reduce  entirely  under  any  of  those 
denominations;  both  Calvinists  and  Arminians,  with 
other  divines  scarcely  belonging  to  either  of  those 
schools.  In  point  of  learning,  eloquence,  reasoning,  and  , 
imagination  the  men  varied ; but  under  all  their  pecul-  j 
iarities  lay  a common  faith  of  no  ordinary  character,  a ( 
faith  of  that  rare  kind  which  makes  the  confessor.  They  : 
believed  in  God,  in  Christ,  in  truth,  in  heaven ; and  in 
the  controversy  which  they  carried  on  they  regarded 
themselves  as  fighting  for  a divine  cause.  . . . They  | 
believed  that  they  were  acting  in  the  defence  of  the  ; 
Gospel.  A strong  evangelical  faith  upheld  their  eccle- 
siastical opinions  like  the  everlasting  rocks  which  form 
the  ribs  and  backbone  of  this  grand  old  world.  The 
Church  of  England  suffered  no  small  loss  when  she  lost 
such  men”  (.Stoughton).  Yet,  in  spite  of  these  perse- 
cutions, the  Independents  still  continued  to  subsist  un- 
til, in  1688,  the  Revolution,  and  in  1689  the  “Act  of  Tol- 
eration,” finally  restored  to  them  the  enjoyment  of  liber- 
ty of  worship. 

Shortly  after  the  publication  of  the  Act  of  Toleration, 
efforts  were  made  to  bring  about  a union  between  the 
Presbyterians  and  the  Independents  (who  by  this  time 
generally  styled  themselves  Congregationalists),  and  in 
1091  heads  of  agreement  were  drawn  up  (compare  Mos-  | 
heim,  Eccl.  Hist,  v,  361-363).  But  “ within  a year  from  ^ 
the  formation  of  the  union  two  discussions  on  points  of 
doctrine  and  order  arose.  The  first  of  these  was  excited 
by  a Congregational  minister  holding  high  Calvinistic  | 
or  rather  Antinomian  opinions,  believing  and  preaching  I 
that  repentance  is  not  necessary  to  salvation,  that  the 
elect  are  always  without  sin,  and  always  without  ‘spot 
before  God.’”  The  controversy  which  this  course  pro-  j 
yoked  “ threw  eleven  counties  into  disorder,  and  before 
a year  bad  passed  away  the  Congregationalists  had  be- 
gun to  be  weaned  from  the  union”  (Skeats ; comp,  also 
our  article  on  IIowe,  John).  From  the  position  which 
the  Independents  assumed,  it  is  curious  to  notice  “ that 
the  Presbyterians,  at  this  time,  were  more  moderate 
Calvinists  than  the  Congregationalists,  and  that  the  ep- 
ithet of  • Baxterians’  was  not  inappropriately  applied  to 
them;  but  as  Baxterianism  included  the  articles  of  the 
Church  of  England,  and  the  confessions  of  Dort  and 
Savoy,  their  moderation  was  certainly  limited.  What 
they  did  not  believe  was  the  doctrine  of  absolute  repro- 
bation, held  in  the  sense  that  persons  were  condemned 
irrespective  of  their  character  and  faith.  They  did  not 
believe  that  sinners  were  pardoned  without  repentance. 
They  did  not  believe  that  the  Saviour  so  stood  in  the 
siiiner’s  place  that  God  ever  looked  upon  him  as  a sin- 
ner. The  last  point  was  the  point  most  vehemently  de- 
bated in  this  controversy.  The  question  was,  Is  there 
a change  of  persons,  or  only  of  person,  in  the  redemp- 
tion ; and  according  as  this  was  answered,  and  the  sense 
in  which  the  answer  was  understood,  the  controversial- 
ist was  classed  as  an  Arminian,  or  even  Unitarian,  on 
the  one  side,  or  as  an  Antinomian  on  the  other.  .Mather 
went  so  far  as  to  state  that  believers  were  as  righteous 
as  Christ  himself,  and  the  Congregational  body  support- 
ed Mather.” 

After  the  Revolution  the  Independents  greatly  in- 


creased in  numbers  and  influence,  especially  during  the 
middle  of  the  last  century,  lmder  “ the  extraordinary  re- 
vival of  religious  zeal”  which  the  earnest  labors  of  Wes- 
ley and  Wliitefield  occasioned.  Many  converts  of  these 


eminent  preachers  joined  the  Independents,  favoring 
their  views  on  Church  government.  Since  the  repeal 
of  the  Test  and  Corporation  Acts  in  1828,  by  which  all 
civil  abilities  were  removed  from  the  Independents,  and 
their  right  to  social  equality  with  their  fellow-subjects 
was  legally  acknowledged,  they  have  especially  pros- 
pered, and  their  accessions  have  been  so  great  that  they 
have  become  the  largest  dissenting  body  in  England  ex- 
cept the  Wesleyan  Methodists.  In  1831  a “ Congrega- 
tional Union  of  England  and  Wales”  was  formed,  and 
their  “ Declaration  of  Faith,  Order,  and  Discipline”  was 
adopted  in  1833.  By  the  census  of  1851  (in  the  census 
of  1861  religious  statistics  were  not  included),  the  num- 
ber of  their  churches  in  England  and  Wales  is  given  at 
3244,  with  accommodation  for  1,067,760  persons,  and  an 
estimated  attendance  of  793,142.  The  Independents, 
who  have  always  evinced  great  interest  in  education, 
at  present  have  under  their  control  in  England  ten 
training  colleges,  with  a staff  of  twenty-six  professors. 
These  are, 


Dnte  of 
Formation. 

Western  College,  Plymouth 1752 

Rotherham  College 1756 

Brecon  College 1760 

Cheshuut  College 1768 

Airedale  College,  Bradford 17S4 

Hackney  College 1796 

Lancashire  College 1S9G 

Spring  Ilill,  Birmingham 1838 

New  College,  London 1S50 

Cavendish  Theological  College,  Man-) 

Chester j'  J 


No.  of 
Student*. 
16 


27 

20 

20 

33 

21 

40 


- 1860 


II.  Doctrines. — “In  support  of  their  scheme  of  Con- 
gregational churches,  the  Independents  observe  that  the 
word  tKKXijota,  which  we  translate  1 church,'  is  always 
used  in  Scripture  to  signify  either  a single  congregation , 
or  tli ejdace  where  a single  congregation  meets.  Thus 
that  unlawful  assembly  at  Ephesus,  brought  together 
against  Paul  by  the  craftsmen,  is  called  tKicXijoia,  a 
church  (Acts  xix,  32,  39,  41).  The  word,  however,  is 
generally  applied  to  a more  sacred  use,  hut  still  it  signi- 
fies either  the  body  assembling,  or  the  place  in  which  it 
assembles.  The  whole  body  of  the  disciples  at  Corinth 
is  called  the  Church,  and  spoken  of  as  coming  together 
into  one  place  (1  Cor.  xiv,  23).  The  place  into  which 
they  came  together  we  find  likewise  called  a church  : 
‘ When  ye  come  together  in  the  church — when  ye  come 
together  into  one  place’  (1  Cor.  xi,  18,  20).  Wherever 
there  were  more  congregations  than  one,  there  were 
likewise  more  churches  than  one.  Thus,  ‘Let  your 
women  keep  silence  in  the  churches,'  tv  raTg  tKK\T]oiaig 
(1  Cor.  xiv,  34).  The  whole  nation  of  Israel  is  indeed 
called  a church,  but  it  was  no  more  than  a single  con- 
gregation, for  it  had  but  one  place  of  public  worship, 
namely,  first  the  tabernacle,  and  afterwards  the  temple. 
The  catholic  Church  of  Christ,  hia  holy  nation  and  king- 
dom, is  likewise  a single  congregation,  having  one  place 
of  worship,  that  is,  heaven,  where  all  the  members  as- 
semble by  faith  and  hold  communion ; and  in  which, 
when  they  shall  all  be  fully  gathered  together,  they 
will  in  fact  be  one  glorious  assembly.  Accordingly  we 
find  it  called  ‘ the  general  assembly  and  church  of  the 
first-born,  whose  names  are  written  in  heaven.’  Besides 
these,  the  Independent  can  find  no  other  description  of  a 
church  in  the  New  Testament ; not  a trace  of  a diocese 
or  presbytery  consisting  of  several  congregations,  all 
subject  to  one  jurisdiction.  The  number  of  disciples  in 
Jerusalem  was  certainly  great  before  they  were  dis- 
persed by  the  persecution  in  which  Paid  bore  so  active 
a part.  Yet  they  are  never  mentioned  as  forming  dis- 
tinct assemblies,  but  as  one  assembly,  meeting  with  its 
elders  in  one  place — sometimes  in  the  Temple,  some* 
times  in  Solomon’s  porch,  and  sometimes  in  an  upper 
room.  After  the  dispersion,  the  disciples  who  fled  from 
Jerusalem,  as  they  could  no  longer  assemble  in  one 


INDEPENDENTS 


547 


INDEPENDENTS 


place,  are  never  ealled  a Church  by  themselves,  or  one 
church,  Out  the  churches  of  Judaea,  Samaria,  and  Galilee 
(Acts  ix,  31 ; Gal.  i,  22).  Hence  the  Independent  con- 
cludes that  in  Jerusalem  the  words  church  and  conyre- 
yution  were  of  the  same'  import ; and  if  such  was  the 
ease  there,  where  the  Gospel  was  first  preached,  he 
thinks  we  may  reasonably  expect  to  find  it  so  in  other 
places.  Thus,  when  Paul,  on  his  journey,  calls  the  eld- 
ers of  the  Church  of  Ephesus  to  Miletus,  he  speaks  to 
them  as  the  joint  overseers  of  a single  congregation : 
‘ Take  heed  to  yourselves,  and  to  all  the  fiock  over  which 
the  Holy  Ghost  hath  made  you  overseers’  (Acts  xx,  28). 
Had  the  Church  at  Ephesus  consisted  of  different  con- 
gregations, united  under  such  a jurisdiction  as  that  of 
a modern  presbytery,  it  would  have  been  natural  to  say, 
‘ Take  heed  to  yourselves,  and  to  the  flocks  over  which 
the  Holy  Ghost  hath  made  you  overseers;’  but  this  is  a 
way  of  speaking  of  which  the  Independent  finds  no  in- 
stance iu  the  whole  of  the  New  Testament.  The  sacred 
writers,  when  speaking  of  all  the  Christians  in  a nation 
or  province,  never  eall  them  the  Church  of  such  a na- 
tion or  province,  but  'the  churches  of  Galatia’  (Gal.  i,  2), 
‘ the  churches  of  Macedonia’  (2  Cor.  viii,  1),  ‘ the  church- 
es of  Asia’  (1  Cor.  xvi,  19).  On  the  other  hand,  when 
speaking  of  the  disciples  in  a city  or  town  who  might 
ordinarily  assemble  in  one  place,  they  uniformly  call 
them  a Church;  as,  ‘the  Church  of  Antioch,’  ‘the 
Church  at  Corinth,’  ‘the  Church  of  Ephesus,’  and  the 
like. 

“ In  each  of  these  churches  or  congregations  there 
were  bishops,  sometimes  called  ‘elders,’  and  deacons; 
and  in  every  church  there  seems  to  have  been  more 
than  one  elder,  and  in  some  a great  many,  ‘ who  all  la- 
bored in  word  and  doctrine.’  Thus  we  read  (Acts  xiv, 
23)  of  Paul  and  Barnabas  ordaining  elders  (to  be  bish- 
ops and  deacons)  in  every  church ; and  (Acts  xx,  17)  of 
a company  of  elders  in  the  Church  of  Ephesus,  who  were 
exhorted  to  ‘feed  the  fiock,  and  to  take  heed  to  them- 
selves, and  to  all  the  flock  over  which  the  Holy  Ghost 
had  made  them  overseers.’  But  of  such  elders  as  are 
found  in  modern  Presbyterian  churches,  who  neither 
teach  nor  are  fit  to  teach,  the  Independent  finds  no  ves- 
tige in  the  Scriptures,  nor  in  the  earliest  uninspired 
writers  of  the  Christian  Church.  The  rule  or  govern- 
ment of  this  presbytery  or  eldership  in  a church  is  not 
their  own,  but  Christ's.  They  are  not  lords  over  God’s 
heritage,  nor  can  they  pretend  to  more  power  over  the 
disciples  than  the  apostles  possessed.  But  when  the  ad- 
ministration of  the  apostles  in  the  Church  of  Jerusalem, 
and  other  churches  where  they  acted  as  ciders,  is  in- 
quired into  by  an  Independent,  it  does  not  appear  to 
him  that  they  did  anything  of  common  concern  to  the 
Church  without  the  consent  of  the  multitude ; nav,  it 
seems  they  thought  it  necessary  to  judge  and  determine 
in  discipline,  in  presence  of  the  whole  Church  (Acts  vi, 
1-6;  xv,  22;  1 Cor.  v,  3,4,  5).  Excommunication  and 
absolution  were  in  the  power  of  the  Church  at  Corinth, 
and  not  of  .the  elders  as  distinguished  from  the  congre- 
gation (1  Cor.  v ; 2 Cor.  xi).  The  apostle,  indeed,  speaks 
of  his  delivering  some  unto  Satan  (1  Tim.  i,  20);  but  it 
is  by  no  means  clear  that  he  did  it  by  himself,  and  not 
after  the  manner  pointed  out  in  1 Cor.  v,  4,  5;  even  as 
it  does  not  appear,  from  his  saying,  in  one  epistle,  * that 
the  gift  was  given  unto  Timothy  by  putting  on  of  his 
hands,’  that  this  was  not  done  in  the  presbytery  of  a 
Church,  as  in  the  other  epistle  we  find  it  actually  was. 
The  trying  and  judging  of  false  apostles  was  a matter 
of  the  first  importance,  but  it  was  done  by  the  elders 
with  the  floek  at  Ephesus  (Rev.  ii,  2 ; Acts  xx,  28) ; and 
that  whole  flock  did,  in  the  days  of  Ignatius,  all  partake 
of  the  Lord’s  Supper,  and  pray  together  in  one  place. 
Even  the  power  of  binding  and  loosing,  or  the  power  of 
the  keys,  as  it  has  been  called,  was  by  our  Saviour  con- 
ferred, not  upon  a particular  order  of  disciples,  but  upon 
the  Church.  ‘ If  thy  brother  shall  trespass  against  thee, 
go  and  tell  him  bis  fault  between  thee  and  him  alone. 
If  he  shall  hear  thee,  thou  hast-gained  thy  brother;  but 


if  he  will  not  hear  thee,  then  take  with  thee  one  or  two 
more,  that  in  the  mouth  of  two  or  three  witnesses  every 
word  may  be  established.  And  if  he  shall  neglect  to 
hear  them,  tell  it  unto  the  Church ; but  if  he  neglect  to 
hear  the  Church , let  him  be  unto  thee  as  a heathen 
| man  and  a publican.  Verily  I say  unto  you,  Whatso- 
I ever  ye  shall  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven,’ 
etc.  (Matt,  xviii,  15-48).  It  is  not  said,  if  he  shall  negv 
leet  to  hear  the  one  or  two,  tell  it  to  the  elders  of  the 
Church;  far  less  can  it  be  meant  that  the  offended  per- 
son shall  tell  the  cause  of  his  offenee  to  all  the  disciples 
of  a presbytery  or  diocese  consisting  of  many  congrega- 
tions. But  he  is  required  to  tell  it  to  that  particular 
Church  or  congregation  to  which  they  both  belong;  and 
the  sentence  of  that  assembly,  pronounced  by  its  elders, 
is  in  a very  solemn  manner  declared  to  be  final,  from 
which  there  lies  no  appeal  to  any  jurisdiction  on  earth. 

“ With  respect  to  the  constituting  of  elders  in  any 
Church  or  congregation,  the  Independent  reasons  in  the 
following  manner : The  officers  of  Christ’s  appointment 
were  either  ordinary  and  permanent  in  the  Church,  or 
they  were  extraordinary,  and  peculiar  to  the  planting 
of  Christianity.  The  extraordi  nary  were  those  who 
were  employed  in  laying  the  plan  of  the  Gospel  church- 
es, and  in  publishing  the  New-Testament  revelation. 
Such  were  the  apostles,  the  chosen  witnesses  of  our 
Saviour’s  resurrection ; such  were  the  prophets,  inspired 
by  the  Holy  Ghost  for  explaining  infallibly  the  Old 
Testament  by  the  things  written  in  the  New;  and  such 
were  the  evangelists,  the  apostles’  ministers.  These  can 
be  succeeded  by  none  in  what  was  peculiar  to  them,  be- 
cause their  work  was  completed  by  themselves.  But 
they  are  succeeded  in  all  that  was  not  peculiar  to  them 
by  bishops  and  deacons,  the  only  two  ordinary  and  per- 
manent orders  of  ministers  in  the  Church.  We  have 
already  seen  that  it  belongs  to  the  office  of  a bishop  to 
feed  the  flock  of  Christ.  The  only  question  to  be  set- 
tled, then,  is,  How  men  are  ordinarily  ealled  to  that  of- 
fice ? for  about  the  office  of  the  deacon  there  is  little  or 
no  dispute.  No  man  can  now  pretend  to  be  so  called 
of  God  to  the  ministry  of  the  Word  as  were  the  apostles 
and  other  inspired  elders,  whom  he  chose  to  be  the  pub- 
lishers of  his  revealed  truth,  and  to  whose  mission  he 
bore  witness  in  an  extraordinary  manner.  But  what 
the  apostles  were  to  those  who  had  the  divine  oracles 
from  their  months,  that  their  writings  are  to  us;  and 
therefore,  as  no  man  can  lawfully  pretend  to  a call  from 
God  to  make  any  addition  to  those  writings,  so  neither 
can  any  man  pretend  to  be  lawfully  called  to  the  min- 
istry of  the  Word  already  written,  but  in  the  manner 
which  that  word  directs.  Now  there  is  nothing  of 
whieh  the  New  Testament  speaks  more  clearly  than  of 
the  characters  of  those  who  should  exercise  the  office 
of  bishop  in  the  Church,  and  of  the  actual  exercise  of 
that  office.  The  former  are  graphically  drawn  in  the 
epistles  to  Timothy  and  Titus,  and  the  latter  is  minute- 
ly described  in  Paul’s  discourse  to  the  Ephesian  elders, 
in  Peter’s  exhortation  to  elders,  and  our  Lord’s  commis- 
sion to  those  ministers  with  whom  he  promised  to  be 
always  present,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world.  It  is 
not  competent  for  any  man  or  body  of  men  to  add  to 
or  take  from  the  description  of  a Gospel  minister  given 
in  these  places,  so  as  to  insist  upon  the  necessity  of  any 
qualification  which  is  not  there  mentioned,  or  to  dis- 
pense with  any  qualification  as  needless  which  is  there 
required.  Neither  has  Jesus  Christ,  the  only  legislator 
to  the  Church,  given  to  any  ministers  or  people  any 
power  or  right  whatever  to  call,  send,  elect,  or  ordain  to 
that  office  any  person  who  is  not  qualified  according  to 
the  description  given  in  his  law ; nor  has  he  given  any 
power  or  right  to  reject  the  least  of  them  who  are  so 
qualified,  and  who  desire  the  office  of  a bishop  or  elder. 
Let  a man  have  hands  laid  upon  him  by  such  as  could 
prove  an  uninterrupted  descent  by  imposition  of  hands 
from  the  apostles,  let  him  be  set  apart  to  that  office  by 
a company  of  ministers  themselves  the  most  conforma- 
ble to  the  Scripture  character,  and  let  him  be  chosen  by 


INDEPENDENTS 


548 


INDEPENDENTS 


the  moat  holy  people  on  earth,  yet,  if  he  answer  not  the 
New-Testament  description  of  a minister,  he  is  not  call- 
ed of  God  to  that  office,  and  is  no  minister  of  Christ,  but 
is  indeed  riuming  unsent.  No  form  of  ordination  can 
pretend  to  such  clear  foundation  in  the  New  lestament 
as  the  description  of  the  persons  who  should  be  elders 
of  the  Church ; and  the  laying  on  of  hands  is  of  small 
importance  in  the  mission  of  a minister  ot  Christ;  for 
now,  when  the  power  of  miracles  has  ceased,  it  is  obvi- 
ous that  such  a rite,  by  whomsoever  performed,  can 
convey  no  powers,  whether  ordinary  or  extraordinary. 
Indeed,  it  appears  to  have  been  sometimes  used,  even  in 
the  apostolic  age,  -without  any  such  intention.  When 
Paul  and  Barnabas  were  separated  to  the  particular  em- 
ployment of  going  out  to  the  Gentiles,  the  prophets  and 
teachers  at  Antioch  ‘prayed,  and  laid  their  hands  on 
them.’  But  did  this  ceremony  confer  upon  the  apostles 
any  new'  pow’er  or  authority  to  act  as  ministers  of  Christ? 
Did  the  imposition  of  hands  make  those  shining  lights 
of  the  Gospel  one  whit  better  qualified  than  they  w ere 
before  to  convert  and  baptize  the  nations,  to  feed  the 
flock  of  God,  to  teach,  rebuke,  or  exhort,  with  all  long- 
suffering  and  patience?  It  cannot  be  pretended  that 
there  was  any  special  virtue  in  this  ceremony.  Paul 
and  Barnabas  had  undoubtedly  received  the  Holy  Ghost 
before  they  came  to  Antioch;  and,  as  they  w'ere  apos- 
tles, they  were  of  course  authorized  to  discharge  all  the 
functions  of  the  inferior  and  ordinary  ministers  of  the 
Gospel.  As  in  this  instance,  howrever,  the  imposition 
of  hands  appears  to  have  been  a mark  of  recognition  of 
the  parties  as  qualified  for  the  work  to  w hich  they  were 
appointed,  so  Independents  usually  impose  the  hands  of 
the  bishops  with  the  same  intent.  In  a word,  whoever 
in  his  life  and  conversation  is  conformable  to  the  char- 
acter which  the  inspired  w riters  give  of  a bishop,  and 
is  likewise  qualified  by  his  ‘mightiness  in  the  Scrip- 
ture’ to  discharge  the  duties  of  that  office,  is  fully  au- 
thorized to  administer  the  sacraments  of  baptism  and 
the  Lord’s  Supper,  to  teach,  and  exhort,  and  rebuke, 
writh  all  long-suffering,  and  doctrine,  and  has  all  the 
call  and  mission  which  the  Lord  now  gives  to  any  man; 
while  he  who  wants  the  qualifications  mentioned  has 
not  God’s  call,  whatever  he  may  have,  nor  any  author- 
ity to  preach  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  or  to  dispense  the 
ordinances  of  his  religion.  From  this  view  of  the  In- 
dependent principles,  which  is  faithfully  taken  from 
their  own  writers,  it  appears  that,  according  to  them, 
even  the  election  of  a congregation  confers  upon  the  in- 
dividual whom  they  may  choose  for  tlicir  pastor  no  new' 
powers,  but  only  creates  a new  relation  between  him 
and  a particular  flock,  giving  him  an  exclusive  right, 
either  by  himself  or  in  conjunction  with  other  pastors 
constituted  in  the  same  manner,  to  exercise  among  them 
that  authority  which  he  derives  immediately  from 
Christ,  and  which,  in  a greater  or  less  degree,  is  pos- 
sessed by  every  sincere  Christian  according  to  his  gifts 
and  abilities”  (Encyclop.  Britamica , xii,  870-372). 

III.  Scottish,  or  New  Independents. — In  Scotland  Inde- 
pendency originated  w'ith  John  Glas  (q.v.).  The  Bap- 
tists there,  as  elsewhere,  are  Independents.  The  regu- 
lar Congrcgationalists  are  also  numerous.  See  Coxgre- 
gationausts.  Apart  from  these,  there  is  a body  called 
“New  Independents.”  “ In  December,  1797,  Robert  Hal- 
dane (q.  v.)  formed  a ‘ Society  for  Propagating  the  Gos- 
pel at  Home?  The  object  of  this  society  was  to  send 
forth  men  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  those  parts  of  Scotland 
where  they  conceived  that  this  blessing  was  not  enjoyed 
in  its  purity,  or  where  it  was  not  regularly  dispensed. 
Adopting  the  opinion  that  it  is  the  duty  of  every  Chris- 
tian who  knows  the  Gospel,  and  is  duly  qualified,  to 
preach  it  to  his  fellow-sinners,  James  Haldane,  brother 
of  Robert,  Mr.  Aikman,  and  others,  travelled  through  the 
greater  part  of  Scotland,  and  preached.  In  a short  time 
the  Messrs.  Haldane  separated  from  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land, and  soon  after  two  other  ministers  of  the  National 
Church,  Innes  and  Ewing,  resigned  their  charges,  and 
united  with  the  Haldanes  and  their  associates.  A dis- 


tinct society  was  soon  formed,  at  the  head  of  which  -were 
the  Haldanes;  and  hence  its  members  have  been  also 
called  Ilaldanites,  or  Haldanite  Independents . Large 
places  of  public  worship,  denominated  Tabernacles,  were 
erected,  at  Robert  Haldane’s  expense,  in  the  principal 
towns,  where  the  Word  of  God  was  declared  to  numerous 
assemblies,  both  by  these  ministers  and  others  from  va- 
rious denominations  in  England.  At  the  expense  chief- 
ly, if  not  solely,  of  Robert  Haldane,  academies  w ere  also 
formed  at  Edinburgh,  Dundee,  and  Glasgow,  for  the  ed- 
ucation of  young  men  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  who, 
when  deemed  qualified  for  preaching  the  Gospel,  w'ere 
to  be  employed  as  itinerants,  under  the  inspection  and 
countenance  of  the  ‘ Society  for  Propagating  the  Gospel 
at  Home?  Thus  a succession  of  teachers  w'as  secured. 

“ The  eloctrines  of  the  Scottish  Independents  are  Cal- 
vinistic,  and  they  reject  all  articles  of  faith  or  creeds  of 
human  composition.  They  say  that  the  Scriptures  are 
a di-vine  and  infallible  standard,  and  that  consistent  In- 
dependents dare  not  adopt  any  other.  They  insist  that 
the  Scriptures  contain  a full  and  complete  model  and 
system  of  doctrine,  government,  discipline,  and  w orship,' 
and  that  in  them  we  may  find  a imiversal  rule  for  the 
direction  of  Christians  in  their  associated  state,  as  well 
as  all  necessary  instructions  for  the  faith  and  practice 
of  individuals.  They  require  Scripture  for  everything, 
even  for  such  things  as  could  not  be  contained  in  Scrip- 
ture. Hence  they  reject  the  authority  of  the  civil  mag- 
istrate in  matters  of  religion,  and  receive  the  Scriptures, 
and  nothing  else,  as  binding  in  the  worship  of  God. 

| They  conceive  the  Chinch  of  Christ,  as  exhibited  in 
| Scripture,  to  be  an  association  which  has  no  head  on 
earth,  and  which,  as  a body,  can  receive  no  laws  from 
any  one,  except  from  Christ  alone.  They  consider  a 
National  Church  as  ‘the  very  essence  of  Antichrist.’ 
They  lay  it  down  as  a fundamental  principle  that  a 
Christian  Church  ought  to  consist  of  believers,  or  of 
those  who  give  evidence  of  their  knowing  and  believ- 
ing the  Gospel,  united  together  on  the  profession  of  its 
truths,  and  walking  agreeably  to  them.  They  differ 
from  the  more  early  Independents  in  admitting  Cliris- 
tiaus  of  all  religious  denominations  to  communicate  with 
them  iu  the  Lord’s  Supper,  provided  they  have  reason  to 
think  them  real  Christians,  and  in  considering  all  asso- 
ciation of  ministers,  for  giving  council  and  advice  to  the 
churches  in  matters  of  doubt,  as  unnecessary  and  un- 
scriptural. 

“ As  to  Church  government,  they  believe  that  the  apos- 
tolical churches,  according  to  the  model  of  which  it  is 
their  great  and  professed  object  to  conform,  w'ere  entirely 
independent,  none  of  them  being  subject  to  any  foreign 
jurisdiction,  but  each  one  governed  by  its  own  rulers, 
and  by  no  other  law's  than  those  written  in  the  Word 
of  God.  They  say  that  a true  Church  of  Christ  is  a so- 
ciety formed  for  the  same  purpose  as  the  churches  plant- 
ed by  the  apostles,  and  whose  constitution  is  the  same 
as  theirs.  A deviation  in  these  particulars  renders  it 
unworthy  of  the  name.  According  to  them,  when  the 
word  Church  in  Scripture,  in  its  religious  sense,  does  not 
denote  a single  congregation  of  saints,  it  always  refers  to 
the  whole  body  or  kingdom  of  Christ,  part  of  w'hich  is  in 
heaven  and  part  on  earth  ; which  body  does  not  consti- 
tute tw'O  churches,  a visible  and  an  invisible,  but  one 
church  or  family,  consist  big  of  different  parts.  They 
admit  that  all  churches,  that  is,  congregations,  are  con- 
nected together  as  being  Christ’s  subjects,  but  they  insist 
that  they  are  dependent  only  on  their  King,  in  whose 
hands  the  supreme  authority  rests.  While  they  teach 
that  independent  churches  have  no  authority  over  each 
other,  they  allow  that  they  may  receive  the  advantage 
of  each  other’s  opinion  on  any  matter  of  importance. 
They  conceive  that  bishop  and  cider  wrere,  in  apostolic 
times,  synonymous  terms;  that  the  stated  officers  in  all 
the  churches  then  were  elders  and  deacons,  and,  of  course, 
that  they  are  the  only  offices  essential  to  a Church  of 
Christ,  and  that  there  is  no  difference,  in  any  respect, 
between  elder  and  deacon,  except  in  the  offices  to  which 


INDEX 


549 


INDEX 


they  are  appointed.  They  insist  that  ordination  is  not 
represented  in  Scripture  as  conveying  an  office,  or  giving 
any  person  a right  to  discharge  that  office;  it  is  only 
the  manner  of  setting  him  apart  to  discharge  the  duties 
of  his  office.  It  gives  him  no  jurisdiction  in  any  church 
except  in  that  which  appointed  him  ; and  as  soon  as  he 
lavs  down,  or  is  removed  from  his  office  in  that  church, 
his  ordination  is  at  an  end.  They  contend  that  there 
is  a distinction  of  departments  in  the  pastoral  office,  and 
that  teaching  and  ruling  are  different  branches  of  that 
office.  Both  elders  and  deacons  are  ordained  by  impo- 
sition of  hands;  and  though  ordination  is  part  of  the 
elder’s  province,  yet,  when  churches  arc  newly  formed, 
or  in  other  cases  of  necessity,  they  allow  that  the  mem- 
bers, who  have  always  the  right  of  election,  may  ordain 
church  officers  for  themselves,  or,  at  least,  set  them  apart 
to  their  respective  offices. 

“In  worship , the  New  Independents  do  not  differ 
much  from  other  non-liturgical  churches.  They  read  a 
large  but  indefinite  portion  of  the  Scriptures  at  each 
meeting;  in  many  of  their  chapels  they  use  l>r.  Watts’s 
version  of  the  Psalms ; and  in  most  of  them  they  stand 
while  singing.  They  adopt  weekly  comimiuions ; and, 
as  they  make  no  real  distinction  between  clergy  and 
laity,  the  want  or  absence  of  elders  and  deacons,  on  any 
occasion,  in  any  of  their  chapels,  is  not  thought  a suffi- 
cient reason  for  preventing  the  administration  of  the 
holy  communion  on  the  first  day  of  the  week.  They 
contend  that,  by  the  approved  practice  of  apostolic 
churches,  it  is  demonstrated  to  be  the  appointment  of 
Christ  that  his  churches  must  observe  the  Lord’s  Supper 
every  first  day  of  the  week.  A division  has  taken  place 
among  these  Independents,  chiefly  in  consequence  of  the 
adoption  of  Baptist  principles,  and  the  introduction  of 
Church  discipline,  and  of  mutual  exhortation  and  pray- 
er by  the  brethren,  into  the  public  sendee  on  Sunday 
mornings.”  The  New  Independents  increased  rapidly, 
and  possessed,  as  early  as  the  opening  of  our  century, 
some  86  churches.  There  are  at  present  some  114 
churches  in  connection  with  the  New  Independents. 
See  Haldane,  View  of  Social  Worship;  Adams,  Religious 
World,  iii,  260  sq. ; Robinson,  Theological  Dictionary,  s. 
v. ; Kinnibnrgh,  Historical  Survey  of  Congregationalism 
in  Scotland;  and  the  articles  Haldane;  Congrega- 
tioxalists.  Some  of  the  Scotch  Independents  have 
embraced  the  Morisonian  doctrine.  See  Morisoxiaxs. 
See,  besides  the  authorities  already  referred  to,  Fletcher, 
History  of  Independency  (Lond.  1847,  4 vols.  12 mo) ; 
Vaughan,  Hist,  of  English  Nonconformity  (Lond.  1862); 
Neal,  Hist,  of  the  Puritans  (see  Index) ; Milner,  Ch.  Hist. 
i,  444 ; Burnet,  Hist,  of  his  own  Times  (see  Index) ; Punch- 
aril,  History  of  Congregationalism,  vol.  i,  ii;  Bogue  and 
Bennett,  History  of  Dissenters , i,  171  sq.;  ii,  251,  546; 
Herzog,  Real -Encyldop.  vi,  653  sq. ; Bramle  and  Cox, 
Diet,  of  Science,  Lit.,  and  A rt,  s.  v. ; Chambers,  Cyclop. 
s.  v. ; Cyclopeedia  Britannica,  s.  v. 

Index,  the  name  given  to  certain  catalogues  of 
books  and  authors  either  wholly  prohibited,  or  censured 
and  corrected,  by  the  Romish  Church.  An  Index  of  the 
former  kiud  is  called  Index  Librorum  Prohibitorum ; of 
the  latter,  Index  Expurgatorius.  An  Index  Prohibito- 
rum exists  also  in  the  Russo-Greek  Church,  to  which, 
no  doubt,  is  due  the  weakness  of  the  Russian  literary 
productions  on  theological  subjects. 

1.  Index  Librorim  PuoniBiTOur>r. — 1.  Before  the 
Reformation.  — Prohibitions  of  heretical  or  dangerous 
books  are  as  old  as  the  attempts  of  the  popes  to  usurp 
universal  supremacy.  In  fact,  such  prohibitions  flow 
naturally  from  the  theory  that  “out  of  the  Church  there 
is  no  salvation.”  It  was  Cyprian  (q.v.)  who  first  fully 
stated  this  theory;  and  even  in  his  hands  it  logically 
led  to  the  conclusion  that  all  heretical  opinions  (i.  e. 
such  as  differ  from  those  announced  by  the  Church  au- 
thorities) must  be  pimished  and  suppressed,  if  possible. 
As  the  claims  of  the  hierarchy  grew  in  magnitude,  tt 
became  necessary  to  put  down  all  doctrines  that  might 
diminish  the  power  of  the  priesthood.  To  do  this  was 


a proof  of  zeal.  This  zeal  was  at  first  directed  against 
heathen  and  Jewish  writings,  as  it  was  feared  that  the 
reading  of  such  might  even  endanger  Christianity.  The 
Council  of  Carthage  (A.D.  400)  forbade  in  Can.  16  the 
reading  of  heathen  books.  The  Church,  however,  did 
not  remain  satisfied  with  forbidding  heretical  books, 
it  commanded  them  to  he  burned.  This  was  first  at- 
tempted in  connection  with  the  writings  of  Arins,  and 
became  afterwards  one  of  the  practices  of  the  Church. 
As  heretical  books,  however,  were  sometimes  published 
under  ecclesiastical  titles,  such  proceeding  was  in  the 
5th  and  6th  centuries  declared  by  the  Apostolic  Canons 
(Can.  60)  to  be  punishable  by  suppression  of  the  work. 
The  Synod  of  Elvira  (813)  decided  in  the  same  sense 
that  all  who  circulated  forbidden  books  should  be  anath- 
ema ( libellifamosi ).  It  even  came  to  be  held  that  any 
one  who  had  read  a forbidden  book  was  guilty  of  all  the 
heresies  therein  contained,  and  incapacitated  for  read- 
mission into  the  Church  until  the  performance  of  such 
penance  as  the  Church  enjoined.  Especially  did  the 
hierarchy  consider  the  reading  of  translations  of  the, 
Bible  as  dangerous  for  the  laity.  Thus  Gregory  VII 
(1080)  denounced  the  practice  of  reading  the  Bible  in 
the  vernacular  in  his  letter  to  the  king  Wratislaw  of 
Bohemia  (in  Mansi  SS.  Conciliorum  nova  et  ampliss. 
Collectio,  xx,  296).  Innocent  III.  it  is  true,  said  (see 
his  Epistolarum  libri  xix,  in  lib.  ii,  ep.  cxli,  p.  1199) 
that  the  searching  of  the  Scripture  is  to  be  commended, 
not  forbidden;  but  added:  “Tanta  est  divime  Scripting 
profunditas  nt  non  solum  simplices  et  illitcrati,  sed  etiam 
prudentes  et  docti  non  plenc  sufficiant  ad  ipsius  intelli- 
gentiam  indagandam.  Unde  rectc  fuit  olim  in  lege  di- 
vina  statutum,  ut  bestia,  quse  montem  tetigerit,  lapide- 
tur;  ne  videlicet  simplex  aliquis  et  incloctus  pricsumat 
ad  sublimitatem  Script ura;  saerse  pertingere  vel  etiam 
aliis  pnedicare.”  But  the  opposition  to  the  papacy  and 
to  the  Romish  Church  which  immediately  followed  a 
more  general  reading  of  the  Bible,  soon  led  to  placing 
the  latter  among  the  forbidden  books,  on  a level  with 
those  condemned  as  heretical.  The  Concil.  Tolosanum 
(1229)  forbade  the  laity  (c.  14)  to  even  possess  the  O. 
or  N.  T.  (see  Ilegelmaier,  Gesch.  des  Bibclverbots,  Ulm, 
1783).  When  the  Inquisition  became  established  and 
prosperous,  the  enforcing  of  the  rules  relating  to  forbid- 
den books  was  intrusted  to  it,  and  in  the  Cone.  Biterrense 
(1246)  we  find  (c.  36)  a number  of  theological  works 
mentioned  which  both  the  laity  and  clergy  are  forbid- 
den to  read.  But  the  more  the  Church  strove  to  render 
its  position  secure  by  such  means,  the  more  did  influ- 
ences quite  to  the  contrary  exert  themselves  to  secure 
its  overthrow,  particularly  the  precursors  of  the  Refor- 
mation, whose  doctrines  and  writings  struck  at  the  most 
vital  parts  of  the  Romish  organization.  A Synod  of 
London  (1408)  forbade  the  reading  of  Wvcliffe’s  works 
when  not  previously  approved,  while  the  works  of  II uss 
were  condemned  as  thoroughly  heretical.  The  discov- 
ery of  the  art  of  printing  gave  a new  impulse  to  the 
publication  of  dangerous  books,  and  Alexander  VI  com- 
plained in  his  Decretum  de  libris  non  sine  censura  impri- 
mendis  (Baynald,  Annal.  ad  a.  1501,  no.  36)  that  heret- 
ical dogmas  were  extensively  promulgated,  especially 
in  the  provinces  of  Mayence,  Cologne,  Trieste,  and  Mag- 
deburg. He  recommended  the  bishops  and  vicars  to 
carefidly  watch  the  appearance  of  any  heretical  works, 
and  to  enforce  the  fines  and  excommimi  cat  ions  against 
the  authors.  As  to  the  printers,  he  says : “ Debent — 
ipsi  merito  compesci  opportunis  remediis,  nt  ab  eorum 
impressione  desist  ant,  qtue  fidci  catholicse  contraria  fore 
noscuntur  vel  ailversa,  aut  in  mentibus  fidelium  possunt 
verisimiliter  scandalum  generaTe.”  Pope  Leo  X,  in  the 
tenth  session  of  the  Lateran  Council  (May  4,  1515), 
stated  in  the  decree  Inter  sollicitudines  that  no  book 
should  be  published  without  the  authorization  of  either 
the  bishop,  his  legate,  or  the  Inquisition,  under  penalty 
of  excommunication.  Any  book  issued  in  contravention 
of  this  regulation  was  to  be  sequestered  and  burnt. 

2.  A t and  after  the  Reformation  and  the  Council  of 


INDEX 


550 


INDEX 


Trent.  — The  Reformation  gave  rise  to  innumerable 
writings  highly  dangerous  to  the  Romish  Church,  and, 
in  spite  of  all  orders  to  the  contrary,  they  were  widely 
circulated  and  eagerly  read.  In  1546  the  University 
of  Louvain,  by  order  of  Charles  V,  published  a list  (In- 
dex) of  all  such  books  as  were  considered  dangerous  to 
read,  and  consequently  forbidden ; a new  edition  of  the 
list  appeared  in  1550,  after  the  papal  legate  at  Venice, 
John  della  Casa,  had  published  one  on  his  own  account 
in  1549  (see  Schelhorn,  Ergot zliclikeiten , ii,  8).  During 
the  suspension  of  the  Council  of  Trent,  pope  Paul  IV 
had  another  list  of  forbidden  works  prepared  in  1557  by 
a particular  congregation,  and  this  formed  the  first  ac- 
tual Index  librorum  prohibitorum  of  the  Romish  Church. 
It  was  republished,  with  additions,  by  Bergerius  in  1559, 
under  the  title  Index  auctorum  et  librorum , qui  tanquam 
heereiid  aut  suspecti  aut  perversi  ab  Officio  tS.  It.  Inqui- 
sitionis  reprobantur  et  in  universa  Christiana  republica 
interdicuntur  (Bonne,  1557).  In  1558,  pope  Paid  for- 
bade also  to  the  clergy  and  students  the  reading  of  such 
heretical  works  as  had  been  tolerated  for  their  exclusive 
use  by  his  predecessors  or  by  the  Inquisition.  These 
orders,  however,  did  not  prove  very  successful  in  Italy, 
and  utterly  failed  in  other  countries,  though  many  of 
the  works  named  in  the  Index  were  burnt.  The  writ- 
ings especially  condemned  by  Paul’s  Index  were  such 
as  defended  the  civil  governments  against  the  encroach- 
ments of  the  Church,  such  as  asserted  the  superiority 
of  the  authority  of  councils  over  that  of  popes  and  bish- 
ops, or  such  as  attacked  the  theory  and  practice  of  the 
Romish  Church  in  general.  The  Index  divided  the  au- 
thors of  forbidden  books  into  three  classes:  1,  those  of 
whom  all  the  works  were  absolutely  condemned;  2, 
those  among  whose  works  some  only  were  condemned  ; 
3,  the  authors  of  anonymous  works,  such  as  had  ap- 
peared since  1519.  At  the  end  was  appended  a list  of 
sixty-two  printers  of  heretical  works.  The  reading  of 
books  named  in  the  Index  was  punishable  by  excom- 
munication and  by  degrading  penances. 

The  Council  of  Trent,  in  its  18tli  session,  appointed  a 
committee  to  prepare  a new  Index.  This  committee 
reported  at  the  twenty-fifth  session  that  they  could  not 
agree  on  account  of  the  number  and  diversity  of  the 
books  to  be  included  in  the  Index,  and  recommended 
that  the  drawing  up  and  enforcing  of  it  should  be  left 
to  the  pope,  which  was  agreed  to.  Pius  IV  then  pre- 
pared a new  Index,  an  enlarged  edition  of  Paul  lV’s. 
The  publication  of  this  Index  (which  has  often,  but  er- 
roneously, been  called  Index  Trident ims)  was  accompa- 
nied by  the  bull  Dominici  gregis  custodiie  (3 1 arch  24, 
1564),  and  by  ten  rides,  which  have  been  prefixed  to  all 
official  Indexes  published  since  that  period.  As  these 
rides  illustrate  fully  the  whole  spirit  and  tendency  of 
the  Romish  system,  in  its  relation  to  the  freedom  of  lit- 
erary and  scientific  progress,  we  give  them  here  in  full. 

“(I.)  All  books  condemned  by  tue  supreme  pontiffs  or 
General  Councils  before  the  year  1515,  and  not  comprised 
in  the  present  index,  are  nevertheless  to  be  considered  as 
condemued.  (II.)  The  books  of  heresiarchs,  whether  of 
those  who  broached  or  disseminated  their  heresies  prior 
to  the  year  above  mentioned,  or  of  those  who  have  been, 
or  are,  the  heads  or  leaders  of  heretics,  as  Luther,  Zwingli, 
Calvin,  Balthazar  Pacimontanus,  Swenchfeld,  and  other 
similar  ones,  are  altogether  forbidden,  whatever  may  he 
their  names,  titles,  or  subjects.  And  the  books  of  other 
heretics,  which  treat  professedly  upon  religion,  are  totally 
condemned  ; but  those  which  do  uot  treat  upon  religion 
are  allowed  to  he  read,  after  having  been  examined  and 
approved  by  Catholic  divines,  by  order  of  the  bishops  and 
inquisitors.  Those  Catholic  books  are  also  permitted  to 
be  read  which  have  been  composed  by  authors  who  have 
afterwards  fallen  into  heresy,  or  who,  after  their  fall,  have 
returned  into  the  bosom  of  the  Church,  provided  they 
have  been  approved  by  the  theological  faculty  of  some 
Catholic  university,  or  by  the  general  inquisition.  (III.) 
Translations  of  ecclesiastical  writers,  which  have  been 
hitherto  published  by  condemned  authors,  are  permitted 
to  he  read,  if  they  contain  nothing  contrary  to  sound  doc- 
trine. Translations  of  the  Old  Testament  may  also  be  al- 
lowed, but  only  to  learned  and  pious  men,  at  the  discre- 
tion of  the  bishop ; provided  they  use  them  merely  as  elu- 
cidations of  the  Vulgate  version,  in  order  to  understand 
the  Holy  Scriptures,  and  not  as  the  sacred  text  itself. 


But  translations  of  the  New  Testament , made  by  authors 
of  the  first  class  of  this  index,  are  allowed  to  no  one,  since 
little  advantage,  hut  nmch  danger,  generally  arises  from 
reading  them.  If  notes  accompany  the  versions  which 
are  allowed  to  he  read,  or  are  joined  to  the  Vulgate  edi- 
tion, they  may  he  permitted  to  be  read  by  the  same  per- 
sons as  the  versions,  after  the  suspected  places  have  been 
expunged  by  the  theological  faculty  of  some  Catholic  uni- 
versity, or  by  the  general  inquisitor.  On  the  same  condi- 
tions, also,  pious  and  learned  men  may  be  permitted  to 
have  what  is  called  ‘ Vatablns’s  Bible,’  or  any  part  of  it. 
Bnt  the  preface  and  Prologomena  of  the  Bibles  published 
by  Isidore  Clarins  are,  however,  excepted;  and  the  text 
of  his  editions  is  not  to  be  considered  as  the  text  of  the 
Vulgate  edition.  (IV.)  Inasmuch  as  it  is  manifest  from 
experience  that  if  the  Holy  Bible,  translated  into  the  vul- 
gar tongue,  be  indiscriminately  allowed  to  every  one,  the 
temerity  of  men  will  cause  more  evil  than  good  to  arise 
from  it,  it  is,  on  this  point,  referred  to  the  judgment  of 
the  bishops  or  inquisitors,  who  may,  by  the  advice  of  the 
priest  or  confessor,  permit  the  reading  of  the  Bible  trans- 
lated into  the  vulgar  tongue  by  Catholic  authors,  to  those 
persons  whose  faith  and  piety,  they  apprehend,  will  he 
augmented,  aiul  not  injured  by  it;  and  this  permission 
they  must  have  in  writing.  But  if  any  one  shall  have  the 
presumption  to  read  or  possess  it  without  such  written 
permission,  he  shall  not  receive  absolution  until  he  have 
first  delivered  up  such  Bible  to  the  ordinary.  Booksellers 
who  shall  sell,  or  otherwise  dispose  of  Bibles  in  the  vul- 
gar tongue,  to  any  person  not  having  such  permission, 
shall  forfeit  the  value  of  the  books,  to  be  applied  by  the 
bishop  to  some  pious  use  ; and  be  subjected  to  such  other 
penalties  as  the  bishop  shall  judge  proper,  according  to 
the  quality  of  the  offence.  But  regulars  shall  neither 
read  nor  purchase  such  Bibles  without  a special  license 
from  their  superiors.  (V.)  Bocks  of  which  heretics  are 
the  editors,  hut  which  contain  little  or  nothing  of  their 
own,  being  mere  compilations  from  others,  as  lexicons, 
concordances  (collections  of),  apothegms,  or  similes,  in- 
dexes, and  others  of  a similar  kind,  may  be  allowed  by 
the  bishops  and  inquisitors,  after  having  made,  with  the 
advice  of  divines,  such  corrections  and  emendations  as 
may  be  deemed  requisite.  (VI.)  Books  of  controversy  be- 
tween the  Catholics  and  heretics  of  the  present  time,  writ- 
ten in  the  vulgar  tongue,  are  not  to  be  indiscriminately 
allowed,  but  are  to  be  subject  to  the  same  regulations  as 
Bibles  in  the  vulgar  tongue.  As  to  those  works  in  the 
vulgar  tongue  which  treat  of  morality,  contemplation, 
confession,  and  similar  subjects,  and  which  contain  noth- 
ing contrary  to  sound  doctrine,  there  is  no  reason  why 
they  should'be  prohibited;  the  same  may  he  said  also  of 
sermons  in  the  vulgar  tongue,  designed  for  the  people. 
And  if  in  any  kingdom  or  province  any  books  have  been 
hitherto  prohibited,  as  containing  things  not  proper  to  he 
indiscriminately  read  by  all  sorts  of  persons,  they  may  he 
allowed  by  the  bishop  and  inquisitor,  after  having  cor- 
rected them,  if  written  by  Catholic  authors.  (VII.)  Books 
professedly  treating  of  lascivious  or  obscene  subjects,  or 
narrating  or  teaching  them,  are  utterly  prohibited,  as 
readily  corrupting  both  the  faith  and  manners  of  those 
who  peruse  them  ; and  those  who  possess  them  shall  be 
severely  punished  hv  the  bishop.  But  the  works  of  an- 
tiquity,’written  bv  the  heathens,  are  permitted  to  he  read, 
because  of  the  elegance  and  propriety  of  the  language  ; 
though  on  no  account  shall  they  be  suffered  to  he  read  by 
young  persons.  (VIII.)  Books,  the  principal  subject  of 
which  is  good,  bnt  in  which  some  things  are  occasionally 
introduced  tending  to  heresy  and  impiety,  divination,  or 
superstition,  may  he  allowed,  after  they  have  been  cor- 
rected by  Catholic  divines,  by  the  authority  of  the  general 
inquisition.  The  same  judgment  is  also  formed  of  pref- 
aces, summaries,  or  notes  taken  from  condemned  au- 
thors, and  inserted  in  the  works  of  authors  not  con- 
demned; bnt  such  works  must  not  be  printed  in  future, 
until  thev  have  been  amended.  (IX.)  All  hooks  and  writ- 
ings of  geomancy,  bydromancy,  aeromaucy,  pyromancy, 
onomanev,  chiromancy,  and  necromancy,  or  which  treat 
of  sorceries,  poisons,  auguries,  auspices,  or  magical  incan- 
tations, are  utterly  rejected.  The  bishops  shall  also  dili- 
gently guard  against  any  persons  reading  or  keeping  any 
books,  treatises,  or  indexes  which  treat  of  judicial  astrol- 
ogy, or  contain  presumptuous  predictions  of  the  events 
of  future  contingencies  and  fortuitous  occurrences,  or  of 
those  actious  which  depend  upon  the  will  of  man.  But 
thev  shall  permit  such  opinions  and  observations  of  nat- 
ural things  as  are  written  in  aid  of  navigation,  agricul- 
ture, and  medicine.  (X.)  In  the  printing  of  books  and 
other  writings,  the  rules  shall  be  observed  which  were  or- 
dained in  the  tenth  session  of  the  Conucil  of  Lateran,  un- 
der Leo  X.  Therefore,  if  any  hook  is  to  be  printed  in  the 
city  of  Rome,  it  shall  first  he'examined  by  the  pope's  vicar 
and  the  master  of  the  sacred  palace,  or  other  persons  cho- 
sen by  our  most  holy  father  for  that  purpose.  In  other 
places,  the  examination  of  any  book  or  manuscript  in- 
tended to  be  printed  shall  be  referred  to  the  bishop,  or 
some  skilful  person  whom  he  shall  nominate,  and  the  in- 
quisitor of  the  city  or  diocese  in  which  the  impression  is 
executed,  Avho  shall  gratuitously,  and  without  delay,  affix 
their  approbation  to  the  work,  in  their  own  handwriting, 
subject,  nevertheless,  to  the  pains  and  censures  contained 


INDEX 


551 


INDIA 


in  the  saicl  decree;  this  law  and  condition  being  added, 
that  an  authentic  copy  of  the  book  to  be  printed,  sigued 
by  the  author  himself,  shall  remain  in  the  hands  of  the 
examiner:  and  it  is  the  judgment  of  the  fathers  of  the 
present  deputation,  that  those  persons  who  publish  works 
in  manuscript,  before  they  have  been  examined  and  ap- 
proved, should  be  subject  to  the  same  penalties  as  those 
who  print  them ; and  that  those  who  read  or  possess  them 
should  be  considered  as  the  authors,  if  the  real  authors 
of  such  writings  do  not  avow  themselves.  The  approba- 
tion given  in  writing  shall  be  placed  at  the  head  of  the 
books,  whether  printed  or  in  manuscript,  that  they  may 
appear  to  be  duly  authorized;  and  this  examination  and 
approbation,  etc.,  shall  be  granted  gratuitously.  More- 
over, in  every  city  and  diocese,  the  house  or  place  where 
the  art  of  printing  is  exercised,  and  also  the  shops  of 
booksellers,  shall  be  frequently  visited  by  persons  deputed 
by  the  bishop  or  his  vicar,  conjointly  with  the  inquisitor, 
so  that  nothing  that  is  prohibited  may  be  printed,  kept, 
or  sold.  Booksellers  of  every  description  shall  keep  a 
catalogue  of  the  books  which  they  have  on  sale,  signed 
by  the  said  deputies  ; nor  shall  they  keep,  or  sell,  nor  in 
any  way  dispose  of  any  other  books  without  permission 
from  the  deputies,  under  pain  of  forfeiting  the  hooks,  and 
being  liable  to  such  other  penalties  as  shall  he  judged 
proper  by  the  bishop  or  inquisitor,  who  shall  also  punish 
the  buyers,  readers,  or  printers  of  such  works.  If  any 
person  import  foreign  books  into  any  city,  they  shall  he 
obliged  to  announce  them  to  the  deputies  ; or  if  this  kind 
of  merchandise  lie  exposed  to  sale  in  any  public  place,  the 
public  officers  of  the  place  .shall  signify  to  the  said  depu- 
ties that  such  books  have  been  brought ; and  no  one  shall 
resume  to  give,  to  read,  or  lend,  or  sell  any  hook  which 
e or  any  other  person  lias  brought  into  the  city,  until  he 
has  shown  it  to  the  deputies,  and  obtained  their  permis- 
sion, unless  it  he  a work  well  known  to  be  universally 
allowed.  Heirs  and  testamentary  executors  shall  make 
no  use  of  the  hooks  of  the  deceased,  nor  in  any  way  trans- 
fer them  to  others,  until  they  have  presented  a catalogue 
of  them  to  the  deputies,  and  obtained  their  license,  under 
pain  of  confiscation  of  the  hooks,  or  the  infliction  of  such 
other  punishment  as  the  bishop  or  inquisitor  shall  deem 
proper,  according  to  the  contumacy  or  quality  of  the  de- 
linquent. With  regard  to  those  books  which  the  fathers 
of  the  present  deputation  shall  examine,  or  correct,  or  de- 
liver to  be  corrected,  or  permit  to  be  reprinted  on  certain 
conditions,  booksellers  and  others  shall  he  bound  to  ob- 
serve whatever  is  ordained  respecting  them.  The  bish- 
ops and  general  inquisitors  shall,  nevertheless,  he  at  lib- 
erty, according  to  the  power  they  possess,  to  prohibit  such 
books  as  may  seem  to  be  permitted  by  these  rules,  if  they 
deem  it  necessary  for  the  good  of  the  kingdom,  or  prov- 
ince, or  diocese.  And  let  the  secretary  of  these  fathers, 
according  to  the  command  of  our  holy ‘father,  transmit  to 
the  notary  of  the  general  inquisitor  the  names  of  the 
hooks  that  have  been  corrected,  as  well  as  of  the  persous 
to  whom  the  fathers  have  granted  the  power  of  examina- 
tion. Finally,  it  is  enjoined  on  all  the  faithful,  that  no 
one  presume  to  keep  or  read  any  books  contrary  to  these 
rules,  or  prohibited  by  this  index.  But  if  any  one  read 
or  keep  any  books  composed  by  heretics,  or  the  writings 
of  any  anthor  suspected  of  heresy  or  false  doctrine,  he 
shall  instantly  incur  the  sentence' of  excommunication; 
and  those  who  read  or  keep  works  interdicted  on  another 
account,  besides  the  mortal  sin  committed,  shall  he  se- 
verely punished  at  the  will  of  the  bishops”  (Lahhei  SS. 
Concilia , xiv,  953-956). 

This  Index  of  Pius  IV  was  published  at  Rome  by 
Aldus  Manutius  (1564),  and  afterwards  revised  and  en- 
larged by  Gregory  XIII,  Sixtus  V,  Clement  VIII  (1595). 

2.  Index  Expurgatorius. — Pope  Sixtus  V intro- 
duced a scries  of  works  which,  after  expunging  certain 
obnoxious  passages,  could  be  allowed  to  be  read.  This 
list  received  the  name  of  Index  librorum  expurgando- 
rum  or  expurgatorius.  It  was  first  published  by  order 
of  the  duke  Alba,  under  the  style  Index  expurgatorius 
librorum , qui  hoc  sceculo  prodierunt  (Antwerp,  1751,  and  i 
republished  since).  Other  lists  of  prohibited  books,  on 
the  model  of  that  of  Rome,  were,  however,  published 
in  other  countries,  especially  in  Spain  (most  of  them 
under  Philip  II  in  Madrid,  in  1577  and  1584)  and  in 
Italy.  John  Maria  Brasichellen  or  Ilrasichclli  (prop- 
erly Wenzel  of  Brisigella)  prepared,  with  the  aid  of  the 
Dominican  Tomas  Malvemla,  an  Index  styled  Index 
expurgatorius  cura  21.  Brasichellani,  Mag.  Palat. 
Roma;  (1607),  but  this,  far  from  being  approved  of  at 
head-quarters,  was  itself  put  in  the  Romish  Index  libr. 
prohib.  The  Spanish  inquisitor  general,  Antonio  a So-  ' 
tomajor,  published  a Xovissimus  librorum  prohibitorum 
et  expurgandorum  Index;  (Madrid,  1648),  which  is  high- 
ly praised  for  its  completeness.  The  Romish  Index  was 
republished  in  1818,  but  has  since  received,  and  is  con- 
stantly receiving,  numerous  additions. 


The  Congregation  of  the  Index  was  originally  estab- 
lished by  pope  Pius  V.  It  holds  its  sittings  at  Rome, 
and  has  the  right  of  examining  generally  all  books 
which  concern  faith,  morals,  ecclesiastical  discipline,  or 
civil  society;  on  which  it  passes  judgment,  for  sup- 
pressing them  absolutely,  or  directing  them  to  be  cor- 
rected, or  allowing  them  to  be  read  with  precaution, 
and  by  certain  persons.  Persons  specially  deputed  by 
it  may  give  permission  to  Romanists  throughout  the 
world  to  read  prohibited  books;  and  the  penalty  de- 
nounced against  those  who  read  or  keep  any  books  sus- 
pected of  heresy  or  false  doctrine  is  the  greater  ex- 
communication ; and  those  who  read  or  keep  works 
interdicted  on  any  other  account,  besides  the  mortal  sin 
committed,  .are  to  be  severely  punished  at  the  will  of 
the  bishops.  It  is  remarkable,  however,  that  the  Index 
is  hardly  in  force  at  the  present  day,  even  in  the  most 
Romish-inclined  countries.  In  Austria  even,  the  faith- 
ful daughter  of  Rome,  Maria  Theresa  forbade  the  publi- 
cation, and  it  is  not  to  be  expected  that  either  her  lib- 
eral successors  or  the  princes  of  other  Roman  Catholic 
countries,  forced  by  the  liberal  spirit  of  the  people  to 
disobedient  acts  towards  Rome,  should  permit  the  pub- 
lication in  their  dominions.  It  can,  therefore,  hardly 
be  said  to  be  any  longer  virtually  in  force,  though  in 
some  countries  its  publication  is  permitted  by  special 
grant  from  the  government.  Baudri,  in  an  article  on 
this  subject  in  Aschbach  ( Kirclien-Lex . iii,  444,  a Ro- 
man Catholic  work),  concedes  this,  and  says  that  even 
the  countries  bound  by  a concordat  to  an  enforcement 
of  the  decisions  of  the  Congregation  of  the  Index  fail 
to  do  their  duty,  and  that  books  are  constantly  publish- 
ed without  regard  and  consideration  of  the  agreement 
entered  into  with  Rome  (comp.  Eckardt,  Modern  Russiei , 
p.  246  sq.).  See  Mendham,  Literary  Policy  of  the  Church 
of  Rome  (Loud.  1830, 8vo) ; Cramp,  Text-book  of  Popery 
(London,  1851,  8vo),  p.  419-428;  Elliott,  Delineation  of 
Popery , bk.  i ; Gihbings,  Index  Vaticanus,  an  exact  Re- 
print of  the  Roman  Index  Expurgatorius  (London.  1837, 
8vo) ; Peignot,  Dictionnaire  critique  litteraire  et  biblio- 
graphique  des  priheipaux  livres  condamnes  au  feu , sup- 
primes  on  censures  (Paris,  1806);  Ilerzog,  Real-Ency- 
klop.  vi,  651 ; Eadie,  Ecclesiastical  Encyclopaedia , s.  v. ; 
Buckley,  Canons  and  Decrees  of  Trent , p.  284.  See  also 
Bible,  Use  of;  Censorship  of  Books. 

In'dia  (Ileb.  Hoikin',  *nh,  for  *n3n,  i.  e.  Hindu, 
of  Sanscrit  origin;  see  Gesenius,  Thesciur.  Ileb.  p.  366; 
Sept,  ’ivlua),  Yulg.  India ),  occurs  in  the  Bible  only  in 
Esther  i,  1 ; viii,  9,  where  the  Persian  king  is  described 
as  reigning  “from  India  unto  Ethiopia,  over  a hundred 
and  seven  and  twenty  provinces the  names  of  the  two 
countries  are  similarly  connected  by  Herodotus  (vii,  9). 
It  is  found  again,  lioAvever,  in  the  Apocrypha  (compare 
Esther  xiii,  1),  where  India  is  mentioned  among  the 
countries  which  the  Romans  took  from  Antiochus  and 
gave  to  Eumenes  (1  Macc.  viii,  8).  It  is  also  with  some 
reason  conceived  that  in  the  list  of  foreign  Jews  present 
at  the  Pentecost  (Acts  ii,9)  we  should  read  ’ Iveiav,  In- 
dia, and  not  ’ lovcaiav , J taken  ; but  the  still  more  prob- 
able reading  is  'icovpaiav,  Idumaea,  if  indeed  the  com- 
mon reading  ought  to  be  changed  at  all  (see  Kuinol, 
Comment,  ad  loe.)»  The  Hebrew  form  “ Iloddn"  is  an 
abbreviation  of  Ilonadu,  which  is  identical  with  the  in- 
digenous names  of  the  river  Indus,  “Hindu,”  or  “ bin- 
dim,”  and  again  with  the  ancient  name  of  the  country 
as  it  appears  in  the  Vemlidad,  “Ilapta  Hendu.”  The 
native  form  “ Sindus”  is  noticed  hv  Pliny  (vi,  23).  The 
India  of  the  book  of  Esther  is  not  the  peninsula  of  Ilin- 
dostan,  but  the  country  surrounding  the  Indus  — the 
Punjab,  and  perhaps  Scinde — the  India  which  Herodo- 
tus describes  (iii,  98)  as  forming  part  of  the  Persian'  em- 
pire under  Darius,  and  the  India  which  at  a later  period 
was  conquered  by  Alexander  the  Great.  The  name  oc- 
curs in  the  inscriptions  of  Persepolis  and  Xakhsh-3- 
Rustam,  but  not  in  those  of  Behistun  (Rawlinson,  Herod. 
ii,  485).  In  1 Macc.  viii,  8,  it  is  clear  that  India  proper 
cannot  be  understood,  inasmuch  as  this  never  belonged 


INDIA 


552 


INDIA 


either  to  Antiochus  or  Eumenes.  At  the  same  time, 
none  of  the  explanations  offered  by  commentators  are 
satisfactory : the  Eneti  of  Paplilagonia  have  been  sug- 
gested, but  these  people  bad  disappeared  long  before 
(Strabo,  xii,  534):  the  India  of  Xenophon  ( Cyrop . i,  5, 
3 ; iii,  2,  25),  which  may  have  been  above  the  Carian 
stream  named  Indus  (Pliny,  v,  29 ; probably  the  Calbis), 
is  more  likely;  but  the  emendation  “Mysia  and  Ionia” 
for  Media  and  India  offers  the  best  solution  of  the  diffi- 
cult}’. See  Ionia.  A more  authentic  notice  of  the 
country  occurs  in  1 Macc.  vi,  37,  -where  Indians  are  no- 
ticed as  the  drivers  of  the  war-elephants  introduced  into 
the  army  of  the  Syrian  king  (see  also  1 Esdras  iii,  2 ; 
Esther  xvi,  1).  See  Elephant. 

But,  though  the  name  of  India  occurs  so  seldom,  the 
people  and  productions  of  that  country  must  have  been 
tolerably  well  known  to  the  Jews.  There  is  undoubted 
evidence  that  an  active  trade  was  carried  on  between 
India  and  Western  Asia : the  Tyrians  established  their 
depots  on  the  shores  of  the  Persian  Gulf,  and  procured 
“ boms  of  ivory  and  ebony,”  “ broidered  work  and  rich 
apparel”  (Ezek.  xxvii,  15,  24),  by  a route  which  crossed 
the  Arabian  desert  by  land,  and  then  followed  the  coasts 
of  the  Indian  Ocean  by  sea.  The  trade  opened  by  Sol- 
omon with  Ophir  through  the  Red  Sea  chiefly  consisted 
of  Indian  articles,  and  some  of  the  names  even  of  the 
articles,  algummim , “ sandal  wood,”  kophim,  (i  apes,” 
tukkiim,  ‘m  peacocks,”  are  of  Indian  origin  (Humboldt, 
Kosmos,  ii,  133) ; to  which  we  may  add  the  Hebrew 
name  of  the  “ topaz,”  pitdah,  derived  from  the  Sanscrit 
pita.  There  is  a strong  probability  that  productions 
of  yet  greater  utility  were  furnished  by  India  through 
Syria  to  the  shores  of  Europe,  and  that  the  Greeks  de- 
rived both  the  term  Kaooirtpor  (compare  the  Sanscrit 
kastira),  and  the  article  it  represents,  “ tin,”  from  the 
coasts  of  India.  The  connection  thus  established  with 
India  led  to  the  opinion  that  the  Indians  were  included 
under  the  ethnological  title  of  Cush  (Gen.  x,  6),  and 
hence  the  Syriac,  Chaldee,  and  Arabic  versions  fre- 
quently render  that  term  by  India  or  Indians,  as  in  2 
Chron.  xxi,  16 ; Isa.  xi,  11 ; xviii,  1 ; Jer.  xiii,  23 ; Zeph. 
iii,  10.  For  the  connection  which  some  have  sought 
to  establish  between  India  and  Paradise,  see  Eden. 

Tbe  above  intimations,  and,  indeed,  all  ancient  histo- 
ry, refer  not  to  the  whole  of  Hindostan,  but  chiefly  to  the 
northern  parts  of  it,  or  the  countries  between  the  Indus 
and  the  Ganges ; although  it  is  not  necessary  to  assert 
that  the  rest  of  that  peninsula,  particularly  its  western 
coast,  was  then  altogether  unknown.  It  was  from  this 
quarter  that  the  Persians  and  Greeks  (to  whom  we  arc 
indebted  for  the  earliest  accounts  of  India)  invaded  the 
country;  and  this  was  consequently  the  region  which 
first  became  generally  known.  The  countries  bordering 
on  the  Ganges  continued  to  be  involved  in  obscurity, 
the  great  kingdom  of  the  Prasians  excepted,  which,  sit- 
uated nearly  above  the  modem  Bengal,  -was  dimly  dis- 
cernible. The  nearer  we  approach  the  Indus,  the  more 
clear  becomes  our  knowledge  of  the  ancient  geography 
of  the  country' ; and  it  follows  that  the  districts  of  which 
at  the  present  day  we  know  the  least,  wrere  anciently 
best  known.  Besides,  the  western  and  northern  boun- 
daries were  not  the  same  as  at  present.  To  the  west, 
India  was  not  then  bounded  by  the  river  Indus,  but  by 
a chain  of  mountains  which,  under  the  name  of  Koh 
(whence  the  Grecian  appellation  of  the  Indian  Cauca- 
sus), extended  from  Bactria  to  Makran,  or  Gedrosia,  in- 
closing the  kingdoms  of  Candahar  and  Cabul,  the  mod- 
ern kingdom  of  Eastern  Persia,  or  Afghanistan.  These 
districts  anciently  formed  part  of  India,  as  well  as,  fur- 
ther to  tbe  south,  the  less  perfectly  known  countries  of 
the  Arabi  and  Ilaurs  (the  Arabita*  and  Oritrn  of  Arrian, 
vi,  21),  bordering  on  Gedrosia.  This  western  boundary 
continued  at  all  times  the  same,  and  was  removed  to  the 
Indus  only  in  consequence  of  the  victories  of  Nadir 
Shah.  Towards  the  north,  ancient  India  overpassed  not 
less  its  present  limit.  It  comprehended  the  whole  of 
the  mountainous  region  above  Cashmir,  Badakshan, 


Belur  Land,  the  western  boundary  mountains  of  Little 
Bucharia,  or  Little  Thibet,  and  even  the  desert  of  Cobi, 
so  far  as  it  was  known.  (See  Heeren's  Historical  lie- 
searches,  i,  c.  i,  § 3,  on  Persian  India ; and  Rennell’s  Ge- 
ography of  Herodotus.  For  other  conjectures  respecting 
the  location  of  the  Scriptural  India,  see  Winer’s  Real- 
worterbuch,  s.  v.  Indien.  For  the  history  of  ancient  In- 
dia, see  Anthon’s  Class.  Diet.  s.  v.) — Smith;  Kitto. 

INDIA,  Modern.  The  name  is  sometimes  used  of 
the  two  peninsulas  -west  and  east  of  the  Ganges  com- 
bined, to  which  even  occasionally  the  Indian  Archipel- 
ago is  added;  but,  more  commonly,  it  is  applied  either 
to  the  peninsula  -west  of  the  Ganges  ( East  Indies),  or  to 
the  aggregate  possessions  of  the  British  crown  (the  Vice- 
royalty  of  India,  or  the  Indian  Empire).  The  present 
form  of  government  of  the  Indian  Empire  is  established 
by  the  Act  21  and  22  Victoria,  cap.  106,  called  an  Act 
for  the  better  Government  of  India,  sanctioned  Aug.  2, 
1858.  By  tbe  terms  of  this  act,  all  the  territories  here- 
tofore under  the  government  of  the  East  India  Company 
are  vested  in  the  queen,  and  all  its  powers  are  exercised 
in  her  name ; all  territorial  and  other  revenues,  and  all 
tributes  and  other  payments,  are  likewise  received  in 
her  name,  and  disposed  of  for  the  purposes  of  the  gov- 
ernment of  India  alone,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  this 
act.  One  of  the  queen’s  principal  secretaries  of  state, 
called  the  Secretary  of  State  for  India,  is  invested  with 
all  tbe  powers  hitherto  exercised  by  the  company  or  by 
the  Board  of  Control.  The  executive  authority  in  India 
is  vested  in  a governor  general  or  viceroy,  appointed  by 
the  crown,  and  acting  under  tbe  orders  of  the  Secretary 
of  State  for  India.  The  governor  general  has  power  to 
make  laws  and  regulations  for  all  persons,  whether  Brit- 
ish or  native,  foreigners  or  others,  within  the  Indian 
territories  under  the  dominion  of  the  queen,  and  for  all 
servants  of  the  government  of  India  within  the  domin- 
ions of  princes  and  states  in  alliance  with  the  queen. 
The  Secretary  of  State  for  India  is  aided  in  the  adminis- 
tration by  a council  of  fifteen  members,  of  whom  seven 
are  elected  by  the  Court  of  Directors  from  their  own 
body,  and  eight  are  nominated  by  the  crown.  The  du- 
ties of  the  council  of  state  are,  under  the  direction  of 
the  secretary  of  state,  to  conduct  the  business  transacted 
in  the  united  kingdom  in  relation  to  the  government 
of  and  the  correspondence  with  India. 

The  total  area  and  population  of  British  India  were, 
according  to  official  returns  of  the  year  1869,  as  follows: 


British  India. 

Area  in 

Population. 

Under  the  governor  general  of  India) 

in  Council f 

Under  the  lieutenaut  governor  of) 

Bengal ( 

Under  the  lieutenant  governor  of  the) 

North-w’est  Provinces ) 

Under  the  lieutenant  governor  of) 

Punjaub j 

Under  the  chief  commissioner  of  Oudc 
“ “ “ “ of  the) 

Central  Provinces ( 

Under  tbe  chief  commissioner  of( 

British  Burmah / 

Under  the  governor  of  Madras 

“ !i  “ of  Bombay 

4S,314 

240,785 

84,982 

100,441 

22,456 

79,000 

90,070 

141,746 

[142,042 

6,277,107 

37,505,599 

30,016,137 

17,593,946 

6,502,$S4 

9,104,511 

2,329,312 

26,0S9,052 

13,039,106 

Not  belonging  to  British  India,  but  more  or  less  under 
the  control  of  the  Indian  government,  are  a number  of 
native  states,  covering  an  extent  of  596,790  sq.  miles, 
with  nearly  48  millions  of  inhabitants.  They  are, 


Native  States. 

Area  in  Engl. 

Population. 

In  Bengal 

117,151 

8,45S 

103,442 

1S5,610 

116,125 

G6,004 

4,152,923 

2,2941400 

7,154,53.9 

14,G22,5S7 

12,880,228 

6,804,523 

“ North-west  Provinces 

“ Punjaub 

“ Central  India 

“ Madras 

“ Bombay 

596,790 

47,909,199 

There  has  never  been  a regular  census  of  tbe  whole  of 
India  under  British  administration,  but  enumerations, 
more  or  less  trustworthy,  were  made  in  the  north-west- 


INDIA 


553 


INDIA 


em  and  in  the  central  provinces  in  the  years  1865  and 
1866.  The  census  of  the  north-west  provinces,  taken 
Jan.  10, 1865,  showed  that  this  division  of  India  had  in- 
creased in  prosperity  within  the  decennial  period  1856- 
1865,  as  reckoned  by  the  number  of  houses  and  exten- 
sion of  cultivation.  There  were  found  to  be  4.71  per- 
sons to  a house  or  hut,  and  7.06  to  an  inclosure,  or  fam- 
ily dwelling.  The  census  further  showed  that  there 
wore  4J  millions  of  Mussulmans  in  the  north-west  prov- 
inces, or  about  one  seventh  of  the  total  poptdation,  the 
other  six  sevenths  being  Hindus  of  the  four  chief  castes  ; 
namely,  Brahmins,  70  subdivisions ; Ivshatryas,  175  sub- 
divisions; Vaisyas,  65  subdivisions;  Sndras,  230  sub- 
divisions. The  Sftdras  were  found  to  form  the  great 
bulk  of  the  Hindus,  being  18,304,309  in  number;  the 
Taisyas  numbered  1,091,  250 ; the  Kshatryas, 2,827,768 ; 
and  the  Brahmins,  3,451,692.  The  census  of  the  cen- 
tral provinces,  taken  in  1866,  showed  that  their  popula- 
tion consisted  of  6,864,770  Hindus,  1,995,663  Gomls  and 
aboriginal  tribes,  237,962  Mussulmans,  6026  Europeans 
and  Eurasians,  and  90  Parsecs.  The  number  of  Mussul- 
mans vras  much  lower  than  had  been  expected.  All  the 
enumerations  showed  a high  proportion  of  children  to 
adults.  Thus,  while  the  percentage  of  children  under 
12  years  of  age  was  29  in  England,  it  was  in  many  parts 
of  India  as  high  as  55.  Among  the  reasons  to  account 
for  such  a result  arc  mentioned  the  custom  of  polygamy, 
and,  in  particular,  the  desire  of  the  Hindus  to  have 
male  issue,  which  induces  them  to  marry  as  many  wives 
as  they  can  afford  to  keep  until  a son  is  born.  The  re- 
ligious statistics  of  the  three  largest  cities  wrere,  accord- 
ing to  the  latest  enumeration,  as  follow's : Calcutta,  to- 
tal population  in  1866,377,924;  among  whom  wrere  Hin- 
dus, 239,190;  Mussulmans,  113,059;  Europeans,  11,224, 
Indo-Europeans,  11,036 ; Parsees,  98.  Madras,  total  pop- 
ulation in  1863,427,771;  among  whom  w’ere  325,678 
Hindus;  Mussulmans, 63,886;  Europeans,  16,368 ; Indo- 
Europeans,  21,839.  Bombay,  total  population  in  1864, 
816,562;  among  whom  were  Hindus,  523,974 ; Mussul- 
mans, 145,880;  Parsees,  49,000 ; native  Christians,  19,903; 
Europeans,  8415.  Leaving  out  of  account  the  native 
states,  the  following  is  given  as  the  relative  proportion  of 
creeds  and  races  in  India : Hindus,  110,000,000 ; Mussul- 
mans, 25,000,000 ; aborigines  or  non-Aryans,  12,000,000 ; 
Buddhists,  3,000,000;  Asiatic  Christians’,  1,100,000.  The 
English  population  amounted,  according  to  the  census 
of  1861,  to  125,945  persons. 

Christianity  became  know'll  in  India  at  an  early  pe- 
riod. There  is  an  old  tradition  that  one  of  the  tw'elve 
apostles.  St.  Thomas,  preached  the  Gospel  to  the  people 
of  India,  but  the  tradition  is  not  supported  by  any  proofs. 
Cosmas  Indicopleustes,  who  visited  the  country  in  the 
6th  century,  found  a large  number  of  Christian  congre- 
gations, with  a bishop  who  w'as  ordained  in  Persia.  In 
consequence  of  this  connection  with  Persia,  the  Chris- 
tians of  India,  w'ho,  after  the  reputed  founder  of  the  In- 
dian Church,  wrere  called  Christians  of  St.  Thomas,  w’ere 
drawn  into  the  Nestorian  movement,  and  subsequently 
received  their  bishop  from  the  head  of  the  Nestorian 
Church.  Their  territory  extended  from  the  southern 
point  of  the  peninsula  of  Malabar  as  far  as  a few  miles 
south  of  Calicut,  and  from  the  defiles  of  the  Ghats  as 
far  as  the  sea.  An  Armenian  or  Syrian  merchant,  Thom- 
as Canna,  rearranged  in  the  9th  century  the  ecclesias- 
tical and  political  affairs  of  these  Christians.  Through 
his  efforts  they  obtained  from  the  kings  of  Malabar  im- 
portant privileges;  in  particular,  an  exempt  jurisdiction 
in  all  except  criminal  cases.  Their  rank  w as  equal  to 
that  of  the  nobility  of  Malabar,  and  they  wrere  in  great 
demand  for  the  armies  of  the  Hindu  princes.  This  final- 
ly induced  them  to  attempt  the  establishment  of  a king- 
dom of  their  own,  which  was,  however,  of  but  short  du- 
ration. After  that  their  position  was  less  favorable, 
and  the  Portuguese,  w'ho  in  1498  landed,  under  Vasco 
de  Gama,  in  the  port  of  Calicut,  wrere  consequently  re- 
garded by  them  as  their  liberators.  The  first  Portu- 
guese missionaries  were  Franciscan  monks,  who  were 


introduced  in  1500  by  Cabral.  Dominican  monks  land- 
ed in  1503  with  the  two  Albuquerques,  but  they  con- 
fined themselves  to  a few  convents,  while  the  Francis- 
cans were  for  about  forty  years  the  only  Christian  mis- 
sionaries. It  wTas,  in  particular,  P.  Antonio  de  Porto 
w'ho  in  1535  established  on  the  island  of  Salsette  a 
number  of  colleges,  churches,  and  convents.  In  1534 
the  first  Roman  Catholic  bishopric  for  India  was  estab- 
lished at  Goa ; the  first  bishop,  Albuquerque,  wras  a Fran- 
ciscan monk.  But,  although  the  convents  of  the  Fran- 
ciscans were  so  numerous  that  they  constituted  twro 
provinces  of  the  order,  they  soon  ceased  to  make  nota- 
ble efforts  for  the  propagation  of  Christianity,  leaving 
the  missionary  field  wholly  to  the  new  order  of  the  Jes- 
uits, who  made  their  first  appearance  in  India  in  1542. 
Their  number  increased  very  rapidly,  and  soon  they 
had  in  all  the  Portuguese  colonies  of  India  houses  and 
colleges,  w'hich  wrerc  divided  into  the  two  provinces  of 
Goa  and  Cochin.  Their  success  at  first  wras  very  slow', 
but  when  the  Portuguese  viceroy  Constantine  de  Bra- 
ganza  banished  some  of  the  most  prominent  Brahmans, 
the  Jesuits  in  1560  succeeded  in  baptizing  nearly  13,000 
persons  in  that  city.  In  1579  several  Jesuits  w'ere  call- 
ed to  the  court  of  the  great  mogul,  Akbar,  who  for  a 
time  show'ed  an  inclination  to  accept  Christianity.  Sub- 
sequently, however,  he  conceived  the  plan  of  founding 
a new  religion  himself,  and  the  Jesuit  mission,  which  at 
first  promised  grand  results,  was  confined  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  a few  congregations  in  the  empire  of  the 
great  mogul.  The  Jesuits  were  more  successful  in  their 
endeavors  to  unite  the  Christians  of  St.  Thomas  with 
the  Roman- Catholic  Church.  This  union  was  accom- 
plished in  1599,  at  the  Synod  of  Drampcr,  by  the  arch- 
bishop of  Goa,  Alexius  Menezes.  The  bishopric  of  Goa 
had  in  1557  been  made  an  archbishopric,  writh  twro  suf- 
fragan sees  at  Cochin  and  Malacca,  to  which,  in  1606, 
Meliapur  was  added.  The  Christians  of  St.  Thomas  re- 
ceived, in  1601,  an  episcopal  see  at  Angaraala,  which  in 
1601  wras  raised  to  the  archbishopric  of  Cranganor.  The 
right  of  patronage  over  the  ecclesiastical  benefices  was 
left  to  the  king  of  Portugal,  as  he  had  to  defray  most  of 
the  expenses  lor  the  support  of  the  churches  and  mis- 
sionaries. A new  impulse  was  given  to  the  missions 
when,  in  1606,  the  Jesuit  P.  Robert  dc  Nobili,  at  Madu- 
ra, conceived  the  novel  plan  of  introducing  Christianity 
by  accommodating  his  mode  of  life  entirely  to  the  In- 
dian customs.  He  called  himself  a Roman  sannyasi  (i. 
e.  one  who  resigns  everything),  lived  after  the  manner 
of  the  Brahmans,  clothed  his  preaching  of  the  Gospel  in 
Indian  figures  of  speech,  and  even  retained  among  the 
new  converts  the  difference  of  caste,  allowing  the  con- 
verts to  w'ear  certain  badges  Indicative  of  their  caste. 
But  he  encountered  a strong  opposition,  even  among 
the  members  of  his  order,  and  a violent  controversy  be- 
gan, which,  after  thirteen  years,  w'as  decided  by  pope 
Gregory  XT  in  favor  of  P.  de  Nobili,  and  the  converts 
w'ere  permitted  to  wear  the  badges.  After  this  the  Ro- 
man Catholic  Church  made  numerous  converts.  Accord- 
ing to  statements  of  the  Indian  Christians,  I’,  de  Nobili 
is  said  to  have  baptized  about  100,000  persons  belonging 
to  all  castes.  The  separation  w'as  carried  through  even 
with  regard  to  churches  and  missionaries;  the  missiona- 
ries of  the  Brahmans  being  called  Sannyasi,  those  of  the 
Pariahs,  Pandarams.  The  successors  of  Nobili,  who  w'ere 
supported  by  the  French  missionaries  of  Ponclicliery,  cn- 
larged  the  missions  and  developed  the  system,  but  be- 
I came  consequently  involved  in  new  controversies,  espe- 
cially with  the  Capuchins  (controversy  of  accommoda- 
tion), w'hich  in  1704,  hv  cardinal  Tonrnon,w'ho  had  been 
commissioned  to  examine  the  subject,  and  again  by  pope 
Benedict  XIV  in  1744,  by  the  bull  “ Omnium  sollicitu - 
dinum ,”  was  decided  against  the  Jesuits.  These  decis- 
ions not  only  put  an  end  to  the  conversions,  but  the  ma- 
jority of  the  Indians  who  had  been  gained  by  the  ac- 
commodation theories  of  the  Jesuits  again  returned  to 
their  native  religion.  The  suppression  of  the  order  of 
the  Jesnits  still  more  injured  the  Roman  Catholic  mis- 


INDIA 


554 


INDIA 


gions,  which,  moreover,  suffered  severely  from  the  wars 
of  Tippti  Sahib.  Long  before  this  time  the  Jesuits  had 
lost  their  missions  among  the  Christians  of  St.  Thomas, 
who  in  1653  left  the  communion  of  Home,  and  those  in 
the  vicinity  of  Cochin,  as  the  Dutch  from  1660  to  1663 
had  conquered  nearly  all  the  Portuguese  possessions  on 
the  coast  of  Malabar.  The  Christians  of  St.  Thomas 
were,  however,  a second  time  prevailed  upon  to  unite 
with  Rome  by  Italian  Carmelites;  and  in  1698,  through 
the  mediation  of  the  emperor  Leopold  I,  one  bishop  and 
twelve  missionaries  of  this  order  received  permission  to 
settle  on  the  coast  of  Malabar.  But  this  protection  af- 
forded to  the  Italian  missionaries  led  to  a serious  quar- 
rel between  the  Portuguese  government,  bishop,  and 
missionaries  and  the  Italians,  as  Portugal  declined  to 
forego  its  right  of  patronage,  although  it  was  neither 
able  nor  willing  to  exercise  it.  In  1838,  Gregory  XVI, 
by  the  bull  u Mult  a pree  chire"  abolished  the  former  pa- 
pal constitutions  for  the  Church  of  India,  and  assigned 
to  the  several  vicars  apostolic  their  dioceses.  The  sees 
of  Cranganor,  Cochin,  and  Meliapur  (St.  Thomas)  were 
suppressed.  The  diocese  of  Meliapur  was  transferred  to 
the  vicariate  apostolic  of  Madras ; the  territory  of  the 
two  other  bishoprics  to  the  vicariate  of  Malabar,  which 
had  been  erected  in  1659  for  tbe  Incalceate  Carmelites, 
and  the  see  of  which  is  now  at  Verapoly.  To  it  were 
also  assigned  the  United  Christians  of  St.  Thomas,  a pop- 
ulation of  about  200,000,  with  330  priests  and  160  min- 
isters. The  Portuguese  of  Goa  now  tried  to  make  a 
schism.  The  archbishop  of  Goa,  Jose  da  Silva  y Torres, 
who  had  been  consecrated  in  1843,  ordained,  immedi- 
ately after  his  arrival  in  Goa  in  1844,  no  less  than  800 
priests,  chiefly  men  without  any  education,  and  sent 
them  into  the  territories  of  the  vicars  apostolic.  They 
succeeded  in  obtaining  control  of  a majority  of  the 
churches,  and  jurisdiction  over  a population  of  about 
240,000  souls.  A letter  from  pope  Gregory  XVI  to  the 
archbishop  remained  without  effect.  In  1848  Portugal 
consented  to  the  transfer  of  the  archbishop  from  Goa  to 
Portugal,  where  he  became  coadjutor  of  the  archbishop 
of  Braga.  But  the  bishop  of  Macao  continued  to  per- 
form episcopal  functions  in  the  dioceses  of  the  vicars 
apostolic,  denounced  the  latter,  defied  the  letters  of  the 
pope,  and  at  Goa  within  seven  days  ordained  536  priests. 
When  Pius  IX  threatened  the  bishop  of  Macao  with  ec- 
clesiastical censures,  the  Portuguese  chambers  complain- 
ed of  the  attitude  of  Rome  so  severely  that  the  papal  nun- 
cio was  on  the  point  of  leaving  the  country.  Xew  negoti- 
ations between  Rome  and  Portugal  led,  however,  in  1859, 
to  another  compromise,  and  the  opposition  of  the  Portu- 
guese priests  in  British  India  to  the  vicars  apostolic  ap- 
pears to  have  died  out.  From  the  vicariate  apostolic  for 
Agra  and  Tibet,  which  was  established  in  1808,  the  vi- 
cariate of  Patna  was  separated  in  1845.  Both  vicariates 
are  administered  by  missionaries  of  the  Capuchin  order. 
The  French  vicariate  of  Pondicherry  was  established  in 
1770;  from  it  three  new  vicariates  were  formed  in  1846, 
namely,  Mysore,  Coimbatur,  and  Madura;  the  two  for- 
mer under  priests  of  the  Paris  Seminary  of  Foreign  Mis- 
sions, and  the  latter  under  the  Jesuits,  who  in  1836  had 
reoccupied  this  former  field  of  their  order.  The  vicari- 
ate of  Vizigapatam  was  established  in  1848  for  the  priests 
of  the  Congregation  of  St.  Francis  de  Sales. 

Protestant  missions  began  at  the  commencement  of 
the  18th  century,  when  the  Lutheran  missionary  Zic- 
genbaly  was  sent  to  the  Danish  coast  of  Tranquebar. 
Amidst  the  greatest  difficulties  which  the  foreign  lan- 
guages and  t lie  officers  of  the  colony  placed  in  his  way, 
he  founded  schools,  translated  the  Bible  and  the  Cate- 
chism into  the  Tamil  language,  collected  a congrega- 
tion which  rapidly  increased,  and  laid  the  foundation  of 
the  Evangelical  Church  of  India.  A large  portion  of 
the  councils  either  belonged  to  the  lowest  castes  or  were 
pariahs.  In  the  course  of  the  18th  century,  the  mis- 
sionary work  was  carried  on  by  the  Missionary  Society 
of  Halle ; at  first  with  great  zeal,  which,  however,  grad- 
ually slackened  under  the  influence  of  Rationalism.  The 


last  great  missionary  who  was  sent  out  from  Halle  was 
the  apostolical  Fr.  Schwarz  (q.  v.),  the  residts  of  whose 
work  can  still  be  traced.  Gradually  the  Halle  Society 
leaned  on  the  English  Society  for  the  Propagation  of 
the  Gospel,  which  at  last  took  entire  charge  of  these 
missions.  With  regard  to  the  differences  of  castes,  the 
first  missionaries  had  been  earnestly  opposed  to  their 
continuance  in  the  Christian  churches;  but  this  policy 
was  subsequently  changed,  and  the  differences  permit- 
ted to  remain,  on  the  ground  that  they  were  merely  of 
a social  character.  In  1841  the  Lutheran  Missionary 
Society  of  Dresden  began  to  gather  up  again  the  scat- 
tered remnants  of  the  old  missionary  societies  in  Tran- 
quebar, but  in  the  prosecution  of  the  work  became  in- 
volved in  many  difficulties  with  the  other  missionary 
societies  which  had  taken  charge  of  the  Halle  missions. 
This  society  is  the  only  one  among  the  missionary  so- 
cieties now  laboring  in  India  which  undertakes  to  vin- 
dicate the  social,  though  not  the  religious  standing  of 
the  caste.  The  recent  mission  in  India  begins  with  the 
arrival  of  the  Baptist  missionary,  W.  Carey,  at  Calcutta 
(Nov.  1793).  He  encountered  from  the  start  the  formi- 
dable and  entirely  unexpected  opposition  of  tbe  East 
India  Company,  which  hoped  for  larger  commercial  prof- 
its if  it  spared  the  religions  belief  and  practice  of  the 
Hindus  and  Mohammedans,  and  therefore  not  only  dis- 
couraged the  establishment  of  Christian  missions,  but 
supported  and  defended  the  religious  institutions  of  the 
native  religions.  The  few  chaplains  who  were  sent  out 
to  attend  the  spiritual  needs  of  the  English  in  India 
were  like  the  European  residents  in  general,  drunkards, 
servants  of  the  mammon,  and  worldlings ; when,  there- 
fore, the  Rev.  Henry  Martyn,  one  of  the  most  zealous 
missionaries  of  that  time,  arrived  in  1806  in  Calcutta, 
and  endeavored  to  kindle  a missionary  spirit,  he  pro- 
voked thereby  such  a storm  of  indignation  that  he  had 
to  confine  himself  for  some  time  to  the  reading  of  the 
homilies  of  the  Church  df  England.  When  Carey  land- 
ed in  India,  permission  was  refused  to  him  to  stay  with- 
in the  territory  of  the  British  dominions,  and  he  was 
compelled  to  seek  refuge  in  the  small  Danish  possession 
of  Serampoor  (a  few  miles  from  Calcutta).  Here  be  was 
hospitably  received  by  the  governor,  who  himself  was  a 
pupil  of  Sehwarz,  and  under  his  auspie'es  he  began  the 
Baptist  mission,  which  has  become  of  so  great  impor- 
tance for  all  India.  Carey,  who  himself  had  mastered 
more  than  thirty  Oriental  languages,  and  the  mission- 
aries Marsliman  and  Ward,  caused  the  translation  of  the 
Bible  into  more  than  twenty  languages  of  India,  the 
compilation  of  grammars,  dictionaries,  school-books,  and 
many  learned  works  on  the  history,  religions,  and  cus- 
toms of  India,  new  editions  of  the  chief  works  of  the  na- 
tive literatures,  and  thus,  even  where  they  did  not  suc- 
ceed in  forming  new  congregations,  they  smoothed  the 
way  for  subsequent  missionary  labors.  In  1803,  the  in- 
defatigable Carey,  who  in  1800  had  been  appointed  pro- 
fessor of  Sanscrit  and  other  Oriental  languages  at  Fort 
William  (Calcutta),  was  allowed  to  begin  a mission  in 
Calcutta,  which  was  at  first  intended  only  for  English, 
Portuguese,  and  Armenian  Christians,  but  was  soon  join- 
ed by  several  converted  Hindus  and  Mohammedans. 
Soon  a converted  Hindu,  Krishna,  appeared  in  public  as 
a preacher,  and  by  his  impressive  sermons  organized  the 
first  native  congregation  in  Bengal.  This  success  of 
the  Baptist  mission  encouraged  a number  of  the  chap- 
lains of  the  government  to  labor  for  the  removal  of  the 
obstacles  which  the  East  India  Company  placed  in  the 
way  of  Christianity.  David  Brown,  Henry  Martyn, 
Thomas  Thomason,  Daniel  Corrie,  and  Claudius  Buchan- 
an, and  many  others,  distinguished  themselves  by  estab- 
lishing schools  and  seminaries,  by  literary  labors,  by  ap- 
pointing native  preachers  and  teachers,  and,  in  general, 
by  their  great  zeal  on  the  missionary  field.  The  trans- 
lation of  the  Bible  by  II.  Martyn,  and  the  labors  of  the 
Mohammedan  Abdul  Messih,  who  was  converted  by  him, 
were  especially  productive  of  great  results.  But  more 
than  all  his  predecessors,  it  was  the  Rev.  Cl.  Buchanan 


INDIA 


555 


INDIA 


who  succeeded  in  overcoming  those  hindrances  which 
had  prevented  the  free  propagation  of  Christianity 
throughout  India.  After  having  travelled  through  a 
large  portion  of  the  country,  and  acquired  a minute 
knowledge  of  the  people,  he  returned  in  1807  to  Eng- 
land, and  by  .a  number  of  works  endeavored  to  gain 
public  opinion  for  a -radical  change  in  the  administra- 
tion of  India.  1 1 is  writings  produced  a great  effect,  and 
when,  in  1813,  the  charter  of  the  East  India  Company 
was  renewed,  the  English  Parliament  passed  resolutions 
which  granted  to  all  British  subjects  the  right  to  estab- 
lish schools  and  missions  in  India,  and  compelled  the 
company  to  provide  itself  schools  and  seminaries  for 
the  instruction  of  the  natives.  This  was  followed  by  a 
number  of  other  reforms,  as  the  prohibition  of  burning 
of  widows  (1829),  and  of  a further  payment  of  temple 
and  pilgrim  taxes  (1833  and  1840),  and  the  admission 
of  native  Christians  to  the  lower  offices  of  administra- 
tion. Full  liberty  for  missionary  operations  was  finally 
given  in  1833,  when  a resolution  of  the  British  Parlia- 
ment allowed  all  foreigners  to  settle  in  British  India, 
and  thus  opened  the  field  to  all  non-British  missionary 
societies  of  the  world. 

The  first  bishopric  of  the  English  Church  in  India 
was  established  at  Calcutta  in  1814.  The  first  bishop, 
I)r.  Middleton,  a rigid  High-Churchman,  was  more  noted 
for  his  quarrels  with  the  ministers  of  other  denomina- 
tions than  for  missionary  zeal.  His  successor,  Heber 
(q.v.),on  the  contrary,  though  likewise  a High-Church- 
man, was  indefatigable  in  his  devotion  to  the  missionary 
cause,  and  sternly  opposed  the  toleration  of  caste  differ- 
ences among  the  converts.  His  work  was  continued  in 
the  same  way  by  his  successor,  Wilson  (died  1858).  In 
1835  other  bishopries  were  established  at  Bombay  and 
Madras,  and  the  bishop  of  Calcutta  received  the  title  of 
Metropolitan  of  India. 

In  1867  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Church  of  Scot- 
land sent  Dr.  Norman  M'Ledd  and  Dr.  Watson  to  in- 
quire into  the  working  of  the  missions  there.  The 
following  facts  are  gleaned  from  their  reports.  The 
missionaries  of  the  Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the 
Gospel  are  distributed  through  26  principal  stations, 
embracing  about  407  villages,  and  are  assisted  by  about 
207  unordained  agents.  There  are  in  connection  with 
the  churches  21,000  baptized  persons,  of  whom  5000  are 
communicants  and  8000  catechumens.  Of  these,  4969 
can  read.  Besides,  the  society  has  247  schools  and 
tliree  seminaries,  with  7776  scholars.  One  of  the  semi- 
naries has  sent  out  18  clergymen.  The  income  of  the 
school  was  9000  rupees  from  fees  and  29,302  rupees 
government  aid.  The  native  Christians  throughout 
the  missions  have  contributed  12,271  rupees  for  various 
religious  objects.  The  London  Missionary  Society  have 
at  Madras  a theological  class  of  13,  a central  and  branch 
schools  of  800  young  men  and  boys,  a girls’  school  of 
350,  and  two  native  churches  of  145  members.  In  the 
Cuddapah  district  are  800  members,  with  400  scholars; 
in  theTelugu  country  1200  members;  756  in  the  Tamil 
country,  of  whom  300  are  communicants,  and  large 
schools  for  boys  and  girls  at  Bangalore.  In  South  Tra- 
vaneore,  which  is  this  society's  principal  field,  are  8 
European  missionaries  and  11  native  pastors,  20,000 
professing  Christians,  and  6300  boys  and  1500  girls  in 
the  schools.  The  native  Christians  have  contributed 
9680  rupees,  or  nearly  <£1000,  to  the  support  of  the  Gos- 
pel. In  all  the  statistics  of  this  society  in  Southern 
India  are  32,100  native  Christians  and  11,848  scholars. 
The  Church  Missionary  Society  have  fine  congregations 
at  Madras,  with  600  attendants,  1 European  missionary, 
and  three  native  assistants,  a female  mission,  and  12 
schools.  There  are  quite  a number  of  schools  in  the 
Telugu  district,  and  about  700  natives  in  30  villages 
have  placed  themselves  under  Christian  instruction. 
On  the  border  of  Cochin,  near  the  field  of  the  old  Syr- 
ian Church,  are  10  native  clergy,  and  11,000  persons 
under  Christian  instruction.  The  society  has  begun  to 
labor  also  among  the  “ Hill  Arrians,”  of  whom  1000  are 


baptized.  The  society’s  principal  labors  are  in  the  Tin- 
nevelly  district,  where  it  lias  on  its  rolls  24,000  baptized 
and  12,000  not  baptized.  The  contributions  of  this  body 
were  17,000  rupees.  Many  of  the  churches  and  schoois 
are  self-supporting,  and  are  themselves  animated  by  a 
missionary  spirit.  This  district  is  in  juxtaposition  with 
the  South  Travancore  missions  of  the  London  Society, 
and  with  the  Tiunevelly  missions  of  the  Propagation 
Society.  Add  the  converts  reported  by  these,  and  the 
6000  of  the  American  Board,  and  we  have  8000  Tamil 
Christians  within  150  miles  of  Cape  Comorin.  The 
Wesleyan  Missionary  Society  devotes  hut  a twelfth  of 
its  income  to  the  Indian  missions,  which  are,  of  course, 
among  its  smallest.  It  has  stations  at  Madras  and  six 
other  points  in  the  Tamil  country,  seven  or  eight  sta- 
tions in  the  Canenere  districts,  465  Church  members  in 
all,  5 native  ministers,  besides  several  candidates,  and 
3500  pupils  in  tlie  schools. 

The  following  are  extracts  from  late  (1868)  reports 
of  some  of  the  American  societies.  The  .4  meriran  Board 
has  in  India  the  ‘‘ Maliratta  Mission”  and  the  “Madura 
Mission.”  The  Mahratta  Mission,  established  in  1811, 
had  9 stations,  42  out-stations,  10  missionaries,  9 female 
assistant  missionaries,  10  native  pastors,  4 licensed 
preachers,  and  70  helpers.  Number  of  members,  618; 
baptized  children,  544.  Of  the  23  churches,  11  are  un- 
der the  care  of  native  pastors.  The  churches  have  gen- 
erally agreed  to  devote  one  tenth  of  the  income  of  the 
memberships  to  the  support  of  the  Gospel.  There  are 
a normal  school,  conducted  by  this  society  in  connec- 
tion with  the  Christian  Vernacular  Education  Society, 
and  a girls’  school.  Four  works  have  been  published. 
The  periodical  of  the  mission  is  in  its  twenty-sixth  vol- 
ume. The  Madura  Mission,  established  in  1834,  had  14- 
stations,  162  out-stations  (village  congregations),  13  mis- 
sionaries, 16  female  assistant  missionaries,  7 native  pas- 
tors, 94  catechists,  28  readers,  6 teachers  in  seminary 
and  hoarding-school,  67  schoolmasters,  and  27  school- 
mistresses. Number  of  churches,  30;  of  these,  13,  hav- 
ing 550  members,  are  at  the  station  centres,  and  17  are 
village  churches,  with  700  members,  7 of  which  have 
native  pastors  ordained  over  them.  There  has  been  a 
net  gain  in  the  membership  of  70,  making  the  total 
number  of  communicants  1250.  It  is  noticed  both  of 
the  members  and  the  native  helpers  that  they  are  not 
as  steadfast  as  would  be  claimed.  There  are  162  Chris- 
tian congregations  and  255  villages  where  Christians 
reside,  with  175  places  where  religious  services  are  held 
every  Sunday.  The  number  of  attendants  on  worship 
is  6294.  The  missionaries  have  visited  800  villages', 
and  travelled  nearly  10,000  miles;.  There  are  93  common 
schools, with  700  scholars;  6 boarding-schools,  with  196 
scholars.  The  station  day-schools  are  “decidedly  pros- 
perous.” The  medical  department  has  treated  over 
10,000  patients.  There  is  a “ Madura  Native  Evangel- 
ical Society,”  fourteen  years  old,  which  raised  last  year 
565  rupees,  and  has  raised  from  the  beginning  5400  ru- 
pees. The  “Madura  Widows’  Aid  Society”  lias  120 
members  and  about  1500  rupees.  The  Presbyterian 
Church  sustains  the  Lodiana  and  Furrukhabad  Mission, 
with  17  stations,  28  American  and  11  native  missiona- 
ries, 30  American  and  120  native  teachers,  456  commu- 
nicants, and  6194  scholars  in  the  schools.  Out-stations 
are  increasing  in  numbers.  Tours  into  different  dis- 
tricts have  been  made  as  in  former  years.  Various  me- 
las  have  been  attended,  among  which  was  Hardwar. 
The  number  of  people  present  at  this  place,  according 
to  government  officials,  was  almost  3,000,000.  For  days 
some  twenty  preachers,  native  and  foreign,  preached  to 
many  thousands.  Frequently  many  remained  after  the 
service  to  discuss  some  of  the  points  set  forth  in  the 
discourse.  Cases  of  self-torture  were  fewer  than  usual. 
“The  more  revolting  rites  of  Hinduism  are  evidently 
becoming  obsolete.”  At  this  festival  the  brethren  were 
“ particularly  struck  with  the  marked  increase,  in  the 
knowledge  of  Christianity  manifested  by  the  pilgrims.” 
The  Sabbath-school  and  prayer-meeting  are  established 


INDIA 


556 


INDIAN  CASTE 


at  most  of  the  stations,  and  in  the  Lodiana  Mission  the 
native  Christians  have  contributed  for  religious  and 
charitable  objects,  during  the  year,  670  rupees.  Nearly 

11.000. 000  pages  of  publications  of  various  kinds  have 
been  issued.  A “ medical  mission”  is  connected  with 
these  missions,  at  which  1311  patients  have  been  treated. 

The  (Dutch)  Reformed  Church  has  the  Areot  Mis- 
sion, organized  in  1854.  The  mission  occupies  North 
Areot  District  — area  5017  square  miles,  population 

1.000. 716;  and  South  Areot  District — area  4916  square 
miles,  population  1,102,184-:  ehnrches,  13;  out-stations, 
34 ; number  in  congregations,  1712 ; communicants,  438 ; 
scholars  in  vernacular  school,  116;  contributions,  over 
936  rupees,  or  $468.  The  three  schools  (boys’,  girls’, 
and  preparatory)  have  105  pupils.  Eighteen  tours  have 
been  made,  in  which  1389  sermons  have  been  preached 
to  audiences  of  30,682  persons,  and  2704  copies  of  books 
distributed.  Besides  this,  the  evangelistic  work  must 
be  taken  into  account.  It  consists  in  visiting  the  vil- 
lages immediately  around  the  stations,  which  are  usu- 
ally in  cities  and  towns.  In  prosecuting  this  work, 
1512  localities  have  been  preached  in  by  the  missiona- 
ries or  helpers,  60,788  souls  have  been  addressed,  and 
1775  books  have  been  distributed.  Adding  the  regular 
listeners  at  stations,  gives  100,000  persons  to  whom  the 
Gospel  has  been  preached.  There  is  a medical  depart- 
ment connected  with  the  mission,  at  which  15,507  pa- 
tients have  been  treated.  The  Rev.  Dr.  Seudder  notes 
the  change  that  has  taken  place  in  the  attitude  of  the 
natives  in  the  following  terms:  “As  to  the  results,  I 
have  to  mention  that  the  temper  of  the  people  has  been 
greatly  mollified.  This  is,  perhaps,  one  of  the  most 
wicked  districts  in  Southern  India.  Its  inhabitants 
used  to  hear  the  preached  Word  with  souls  full  of  rage 
— rage  gleaming  in  their  eyes  and  disfiguring  their 
countenances.  It  does  seem  to  us  that  there  has  been 
a marked  change  within  the  year.  Eaniest,  anxious, 
sometimes  longing  looks  are  cast  upon  us  now  as  we 
repeat  the  sweet  story  of  the  cross.  Tracts,  Gospel  por- 
tions, the  smallest  leaves,  are  eagerly  received,  where 
formerly  volumes,  or  books  of  poetry,  or  English  publi- 
cations were  sought  for.  There  are  now  no  refusals, 
where  before  friendly  offers  were  fairly  spurned.  There 
are  quiet,  calm  inquiries,  where  before  were  angry  op- 
positions, or  worse,  sullen  silence.” 

The  mission  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church  in 
India  was  begun  in  1856.  The  work  is  now  in  the  form 
of  a regular  Annual  Conference,  and  is  divided  into 
three  districts,  Bareilly,  Lucknow,  and  Moradabad.  In 
1869  this  mission  contained  291  agents  (of  whom  29 
were  American  missionaries),  733  communicants  (of 
whom  257  were  probationers),  37  school-houses,  96 
schools,  3716  day-scholars,  300  orphans,  and  Church 
property  to  the  amount  of  $3716.  In  the  district  of 
Bareilly  there  is  a successful  medical  mission,  one  of  the 
missionaries  having  charge  of  three  government  hospi- 
tals in  the  province  of  Kumaon,  and  a medical  class  of 
native  Christian  women  having  been  established  at  Ny- 
nee  Tal.  The  hospitals,  schools,  and  orphanages  under 
the  care  of  the  missionaries  are  disposing  large  numbers 
of  the  inhabitants  in  favor  of  Christianity. 

“ It  is  easy  to  sec,”  says  Bishop  Kingsley,  in  a letter 
to  the  Christian  Advocate  and  Journal , “ that  both  Hin- 
du idolatry  and  Mohammedanism  are  losing  their  hold 
on  the  minds  of  those  who  still  show  them  an  outward 
deference.  I have  talked  with  intelligent  Hindus  with 
the  red  paint  on  their  foreheads,  indicating  that  they  had 
faithfully  attended  to  their  religious  rites,  who  never- 
theless told  me  they  had  no  faith  in  these  mummeries, 
and  felt  the  heathen  yoke  that  was  upon  them  an  intol- 
erable burden;  deploring  caste,  and  mourning  over  the  1 
degraded  condition  of  their  women.  They  will  do  utter 
violence  to  their  doetrine  of  caste  when  it  can  be  done 
without  exposure.  Mohammedans  have  made  similar 
confessions  to  me,  saying  they  felt  at  liberty,  so  far  as 
any  conscientious  scruples  were  concerned,  to  violate  the 
requirements  of  that  religion.  Besides  all  this,  there 


seems  to  be  a sort  of  foreboding  in  regard  to  many  par- 
ticulars that  their  ancient  religion  is  about  worn  out. 
One  is,  that  after  about  thirty  years  more  the  Saered 
Ganges  will  lose  its  virtue.” 

In  1868  the  statistics  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church 
in  British,  Portuguese,  and  French  India  were  as  follows : 


British  India. 


1.  Vie.  Apostol.  of  Agra  — 

2.  “ “ Bengal, 

Western ) 

3.  Vic.  Apost.  of  Bengal,? 

Eastern  ) 

4.  Vie.  Apostol.  of  Bom-t 

bay.  Northern f 

5.  Vic.  Apostol.  of  Bom-1 

bay,  Southern ) 

6.  Vic.  Apost.  of  Canara) 

or  Mangalora ) 

7.  Vic.  Apostol.  of  Coim-f 

bat  ur ) 

8.  Vie.  Apost.  of  Ilydera-1 

bad / 

9.  Vie.  Apost.  of  Madras 

10.  “ ■'  ” ’ 

11.  “ 

12.  “ 

13.  “ 

14.  “ 


Madura 
“ “ Mysore . 

“ “ Patna.., 

“ “ Pondicherry 

“ “ Quilon 

“ “ Verapoly,  > 

in  Malabar ) 

16.  Vic.  Apost.  of  Vizigapa- 1 

tarn ) 

17.  Vic.  Apostol.  of  Malacca . 
IS.  Archbishopric  of  Goa .... 


Priests. 

Cfks°’ 

1 Catholic 

1 Schools. 

Chil- 

31 

14,300 

10 

750 

34 

11,000 

12 

1,500 

9 

6,710 

7 

250 

In 

21,320 

2S 

1,S90 

J 

34 

45,000 

50 

2,700 

17 

17,000 

20 

500 

8 

6,645 

. 7 

300 

19 

3G,42G 

46 

2,210 

54 

144,222 

16 

1,S00 

23 

21,500 

26 

1,200 

22 

8,000 

8 

300 

C7 

112,240 

90 

1,990 

22 

56,000 

39 

2,236 

295 

233,000 

500 

5,000 

14 

7,106 

21 

725 

21 

8,500 

; 14 

1,000 

721 

749,569 

894 

[24,251 

The  statistics  of  Protestantism  in  India  (inclusive  of 
Burmah,  Siam,  and  Ceylon)  are  reported  in  the  Boston 
Missionary  Herald  for  October,  1870,  as  follows: 


| 

1 £ 

is 

l?g 

\t4] 

fcj. 

Com- 

P„ri, 

zo 

T'\ 

III 

D ^ 

1 © 

cants. 

Schools. 

American  Societies. 
American  Board 

29 

37 

22 

100 

1SS 

2,494 

5,252 

Presbyterian  Board . 

37 

36 

8 

4 

144 

J 572 

6,726 

United  Presbyterians 

5 

9 

1 •• 

Reform.Duteh  Board 

7 

3 

15 

64 

534 

55S 

American  Evangel-) 

ieal  Lutherans  . . j 

4 

Methodist  Episco-f 
pal  Board j 

19 

18 

3 

29 

231 

476 

3,716 

Baptist  Miss.  Union. 

36 

42 

79 

205 

77 

19,S3S 

4,737 

Free-Will  Baptists  . . 

6 

7 

9 

191 

1,07S 

Baptist  Free  Mis-) 
sion  ary  Society..) 

3 

3 

1 

S,000 

2,673 

American  Mission-) 

1 

0 

ary  Association.) 
Ettropcan  Societies. 

English  Church  i 
Mission.  Society.  (” 
Soc.  for  the  Prop-) 

125 

139 

75 

1741 

13,016 

32,790 

agation  of  the  > 
Gospel ) 

35 

44 

600 

4,000 

London  Miss.  Society 

4S 

28 

275 

3,394 

15,044 

Wesleyan  Miss.  Soc.. 

32 

31 

325 

2,1S4 

8,278 

Baptist  Miss.  Society 

3S 

42 

G 

152 

2,609 

3,371 

General  Baptists 

4 

8 

12 

519 

1,453 

Church  of  Scotland. . 

8 

11 

”3 

3 

’50 

21S 

2.S00 

Free  Church  of) 

1 Scotland j 

16 

30 

7 

3 

119 

59S 

8,661 

Irish  Presbyterians  . 

S 

9 

14 

130 

1,150 

Mission  to  Hill  Tribes 

2 

1 

1 

Moravians 

3 

3 

Basle  Evaug.  Miss.) 

Society f 

Leipsie  Evangelic.) 
Luth.  Miss.  Soc.  . j 

39 

52 

3 

43 

S5 

1S06 

2,336 

16 

18 

5 

4 

139 

9291 

1,0S4 

Gossuer’s  Mission-) 

ary  Society ) 

Herjnannsbung  ( 

9 

25 

1 

85 

35 

4700 

1,400 

Mission.  Society.) 
Danish  Miss.  Society 

° 

2 

3 

4 

1 

ISO 

GO 

Total 

537 

501  319 

1109  3844 

74, S10[  103,767 

Indian  Caste.  The  social  distinctions  indicated 
by  this  term  are  mueh  more  numerous,  fixed,  and  ex- 
clusive in  India  than  anywhere  else.  The  ancient 
Egyptians  had  similar  ranks,  but  they  were  not  so  striet- 
Iv  hereditary,  nor  did  they  form  sueh  impassable  bar- 
riers in  ordinary  intercourse.  See  Egypt.  The  Ilin- 


INDIAN  CASTE 


557 


INDIAN  CASTE 


dus,  indeed,  regard  these  as  absolute,  original,  and  per- 
manent demarkations  of  race  rather  than  of  mere  posi- 
tion or  occupation. 

1.  Origin.  — From  a very  early  period  the  Hindu 
writers  have  propounded  a great  variety  of  speculations 
regarding  the  origin  of  mankind,  and  of  the  classes  or 
castes  into  which  their  community  is  divided.  The 
most  commonly  received  of  these  explanations  is  that 
contained  in  the  ancient  story,  of  which  Mr.  Muir  thinks 
no  trace  is  found  in  the  liig  Veda  (excepting  one  in 
Purusha  Sfikta),  but  which  is  found  in  the  Santi  l’arva 
of  the  Mahdbhdrata , where  a conversation  occurs  be- 
tween Pnruravas,  the  son  of  Ilii,  and  Matariswan,  or 
Vayu,  the  wind  god.  Pururavas  asks,  “ Whence  was 
the  Brahman,  and  whence  were  the  other  three  castes 
produced,  and  whence  is  the  superiority  of  the  first  ?’’ 
and  Vayu  answers,  “The  Brahman  was  created  from 
the  mouth  of  Brahm,  the  Kshattriya  from  his  arms, 
Araisya  from  his  thighs,  and  to  serve  these  three  castes 
the  fourth  caste  was  fashioned,  and  so  the  Sfulra  sprung 

I from  liis  feet.”  The  sacred  books  of  the  Hindus,  how- 
ever, contain  no  uniform  or  consistent  account  of  the 
origin  of  castes,  but  offer  “ mystical,  mythical,  and  ra- 
tionalistic” explanations  of  it,  or  fanciful  conjecture  con- 
cerning it.  In  the  Harivamsa  (see.  211,  v.  11808  sq.), 
Janannjava  says,  “I  have  heard  the  description  of  the 

I Brahma  Yug,  the  first  of  the  ages;  I desire  now  to  be 
accurately  informed  about  the  Kshatriva  Age,”  and  he 
receives  the  following  answer:  “Vishnu,  sprung  from 
Brahm,  exalted  above  the  power  of  sense,  and  absorbed 
in  devotion,  becomes  the  patriarch  Daksha,  and  creates 
numerous  human  beings.  The  beautiful  Brahmans 
■ were  formed  from  an  unchangeable  element  ( [akshara ), 

I the  Kshattriyas  from  a changeable  substance  ( kshara ), 

the  Vaisvas  from  alteration  (vikdra),  and  the  Sudras 
from  a mollification  of  smoke.”  Another  account  makes 
the  Brahmans  to  have  been  fashioned  with  white,  red, 
yellow,  and  blue  colors.  Thence  creatures  attained  in 
the  world  the  state  of  fourfold  caste,  beiug  of  one  type, 
but  with  different  duties.  Still  another  account  (Santi 
Parvati  of  the  Mahdbhdrata , sec.  188, 189),  after  giving 
a statement  of  the  creation  of  men,  etc.,  propounds  the 
following:  “Desire,  anger,  fear,  cupidity,  grief,  anxiety, 
hunger,  fatigue,’prevail  in  all;  all  have  bodily  secre- 
tions, with  phlegm,  bile,  and  blood;  and  the  bodies  of 
all  decay — by  what,  then,  is  caste  distinguished?  .... 
There  is  no  distinction  of  caste;  the  whole  world  is  form- 
ed of  Brahma;  for,  having  been  formerly  created  by 
him,  it  became  separated  into  castes  by  means  of  works.” 
In  the  Bhagavat  Purdnd  we  read  that  there  was  for- 
merly only  one  Veda,  one  God,  one  caste.  Sometimes 
the  different  castes  are  said  to  have  sprung  from  the 
words  Bhiih,  etc.;  from  different  Vedas ; from  different 
sets  of  prayers;  from  the  gods;  from  nonentity;  from 
the  imperishable,  the  perishable,  and  other  principles. 
They  are  sometimes  made  to  be  coeval  with  the  creation, 
and  as  having  different  attributes  involving  different 
moral  qualities,  while  in  other  places,  as  in  the  Epic 
poems,  the  creation  of  mankind  is  described  without  the 
least  allusion  to  the  separate  production  of  the  progeni- 
tors of  the  four  castes.  Sometimes  all  men  are  the  off- 
spring of  Manu.  Thus  it  is  clear  that  the  separate  ori- 
gin of  the  four  castes  could  not  have  been  an  object  of 
belief  among  the  older  Hindus,  while  the  variety  and 
inconsistency  of  these  accounts  help  us  not  at  all  in  de- 
termining its  origin. 

Many  writers  have  claimed  for  caste  a trans-IIima- 
layan  origin,  while  others  have  supposed  that  it  origin- 
ated with  the  successive  waves  of  emigration  within 
the  plains  of  India.  Professor  Both  thus  states  this 
view:  “When  the  Vedic  people,  driven  by  some  polit- 
ical shock,  advanced  from  their  abodes  in  the  Punjaub 
further  and  further  south,  and  drove  the  aborigines  into 
the  hills,  and  took  possession  of  the  country  lying  be- 
tween the  Ganges,  the  Jumna,  and  the  Vindhya  Moun- 
tains, circumstances  required  and  favored  such  an  or- 
ganization of  society  as  was  therein  developed.”  On 


the  other  hand,  Dr.  Hang  says:  “From  all  we  knowr, 
the  real  origin  of  caste  appears  to  go  back  to  a time  an- 
terior to  the  composition  of  the  Vedic  hymns,  though 
its  development  into  a regular  system  with  insurmount- 
able barriers  can  be  referred  only  to  the  latest  period  of 
the  Vedic  times.” 

2.  Extent. — But,  whatever  may  have  been  its  origin, 
it  is  now  a complex  and  highly  artificial  system,  multi- 
form in  shape,  and  often  so  blended  with  the  ordinary 
usages  of  society  and  the  minute  division  of  labor  to 
which  the  older  civilizations  tend,  that  it  is  very  diffi- 
cult to  make  a complete  or  satisfactory  analysis  of  it. 
A close  inspection  of  the  census  returns  to  the  British 
government  in  the  north-west  provinces  of  India  in 
18GG  shows  that  it  is  very  much  more  variable  than  w'as 
formerly  supposed.  Sometimes  the  minuter  divisions 
into  classes  seems  to  follow  no  other  than  the  lines  of 
the  occupations  of  the  people,  and  they  are  accordingly 
returned  as  belonging  to  the  caste  of  tailors,  or  shop- 
men, etc.,  without  other  discrimination.  This  “Blue 
book”  thus  enrolled  more  than  three  hundred  distinct 
castes  within  that  political  division.  There  is,  however, 
after  a general  fashion,  a maintenance  of  the  general 
classifications,  as  (1)  Brahmans,  (2)  Kshattriyas,  (3)  Ya- 
ishyas,  and  (4)  Sudra ; below  which  is  a yet  more  de- 
based class,  (5)  known  as  Pariahs,  or  outcasts,  to  be 
found  in  all  portions  of  the  country.  The  four  greater 
castes  above  named  answer  to  priestly,  warrior,  agricul- 
tural, and  artisan,  or  servant  classes.  We  note  in  this 
census  return  hereditary  priests,  rope-dancers,  sweepers, 
elephant-drivers,  turban-winders,  ear-piercers  anil  clean- 
ers, charmers,  makers  of  crowns  for  idols,  and  even  he- 
reditary beggars  anil  common  blackguards. 

3.  Rules. — These  castes  are  all  hereditary,  the  son  al- 
ways following  the  occupation  of  the  father,  however 
overburdened  some  departments  of  occupation  may  be- 
come by  the  accidents  of  birth.  No  classes  except 
the  highest  two  are  assumed  to  intermarry’,  and  all  es- 
chew contact  with  a lower  class.  They  do  not  eat  to- 
gether, nor  cook  for  nor  serve  food  to  each  other.  This 
dislike  of  contact  extends  to  their  vessels  and  other 
utensils.  The  usages,  however,  seem  often  arbitrary. 
Smoking  from  the  bowl  of  another's  pipe  may  not  be  an 
offence  if  one  can  make  a stem  of  his  fist,  but  the  stem 
or  snake  of  the  pipe  must  not  be  touched,  or  it  is  ren- 
dered worthless  to  all  parties.  It  is  in  accordance  with 
caste  requirement  that  brass  or  copper  utensils  should 
be  moved  from  place  to  place,  but  an  earthen  vessel 
once  used  for  cooked  food  or  water  must  not  be  trans- 
ported to  another  locality.  Loads  may  be  carried  on 
the  head  by  some  castes,  on  the  back  by  some,  and  not 
at  all  by  others.  The  poorest  Hindu  family  ilo  not 
wash  their  own  clothes,  yet  the  loin-cloth  must  always 
be  washed  by  the  wearer  of  it.  If  a Hindu  were  touch- 
ed by  a man  of  an  inferior  caste  while  eating,  he  would 
not  only  throw  away  all  the  food  he  had  cooked,  but 
would  even  spit  out  what  might  chance  to  be  in  his 
mouth  at  the  instant. 

The  accumulation  of  motive  for  the  preservation  of 
caste  purity  is  astounding.  The  slightest  variation 
from  custom  is  at  once  visited  with  punishment  or  fines, 
while  the  graver  offences  become  the  ground  of  expul- 
sion literally  from  all  human  society,  and  of  disabilities 
in  business  and  disinheritance;  and,  believing  in  ances- 
tor worship  as  the  Hindu  does,  and  that  the  happiness 
of  his  departed  relatives  is  dependent  on  his  performing 
the  manes,  the  additional  curse  comes  upon  him  of  beiug 
disabled  from  performing  these  ceremonies  because  of 
caste  impurity. 

4.  Effects. — The  caste  policy  of  India  checks  genius, 
yet  as  from  the  first  the  individual  knows  what  his  life- 
business  is  to  be,  he  pursues  it,  and  attains  a skill  in 
handicraft  unequalled.  The  Indian  system  tends  like- 
wise to  give  permanence  to  institutions,  but  it  unfor- 
tunately perpetuates  evils  also.  It  has  been  the  great 
liinderance  to  all  progress,  civil,  political,  religious,  or 
social,  and  has  presented  the  greatest  obstacles  to  the 


558 


INDIANS 


INDIANS 

progress  of  Christianity.  The  railroads  and  other  Eu- 
ropean conveniences  have  by  some  been  looked  upon 
as  likely  to  make  great  innovations  on  caste-usage. 
There  is  already  a large  and  well-organized  portion  of 
the  population  known  as  Brahmists  who  wholly  ignore 
castes.  See  Hindus,  Modern. 

There  is  much  less  of  caste  observance  among  what 
is  considered  to  be  an  older  population  than  the  Hindu, 
such  as  the  people  inhabiting  the  Himalaya  Mountains, 
and  the  “wild  tribes”  of  Central  India. 

See  Muir’s  Sanskrit  Texts,  vol.  i (Lond.  1868) ; Cole- 
brook’s  Miscellaneous  Essays ; Wilson’s  Transl.  Vishnu 
Parana ; M tiller,  Chips,  ii,  295  sq.  (J.  T.  G.) 

Indians,  American.  Under  this  title  mhy  be  in- 
cluded all  the  semi-civilized  and  wild  tribes  of  North 
and  South  America,  since  the  most  thorough  investiga- 
tion shows  that  they  were  substantially  the  same  peo- 
ple. In  collating  information  concerning  the  Indian 
thought,  it  is  important  to  distinguish  between  the  forms 
it  assumed  before  and  after  contact  with  Europeans. 

1.  Sources  o f Knowledge. — Notwithstanding  the  pro- 
verbial taciturnity  of  the  North-American  Indians,  some 
information  has  been  elicited  by  oral  communication. 
Many  of  the  tribes,  also,  have  a species  of  records  for 
their  traditions.  In  some  instances  these  seem  to  be  lit- 
tle more  than  mnemonic  signs,  made  on  their  skins,  tents, 
clothing,  mats,  and  rocks;  but  in  others,  as  in  Mexico, 
we  find  a series  of  symbols  which  are  a species  of  idio- 
graphic  writing,  wherein  signs  stand  for  ideas,  as  the 
Arabic  numerals  do  with  us.  Besides  these  there  must 
have  existed  in  some  localities  a phonetic  alphabet  prior 
to  the  coming  of  the  white  man.  The  only  one  known, 
however,  is  found  with  the  Mayas,  resident  in  the  pe- 
ninsula of  Yucatan.  It  had  “a  well-understood  alpha- 
bet of  twenty-seven  elementary  sounds,  the  letters  of 
which  are  totally  different  from  those  of  any  other  na- 
tion, and  evidently  original  with  themselves.” 

2.  Origin. — Much  has  been  written  on  the  origin  of 
the  Indian  tribes,  and  their  probable  connection  with 
the  people  of  the  Old  World.  Hardwick  says,  “If  no 
ray  Gf  light  whatever  could  be  thrown  upon  the  ques- 
tions which  concern  the  primitive  populations  of  Amer- 
ica ; if  no  analogy  to  the  case  had  existed  in  the  spread 
of  the  Malayo-Polynesian  tribes  across  the  islands  of 
the  Eastern  Archipelago  and  the  Pacific  Ocean;  if  the 
speech  of  the  Americans  had  absolutely  no  affinities 
with  other  human  dialects;  if  their  traditions,  meagre 
as  these  arc,  hinted  nothing  of  a distant  home  and  of  a 
perilous  migration ; if  insoluble  enigmas  were  presented 
by  the  physical  structure  of  the  Americans,  or  if  their 
moral  powers  and  mental  capacities  were  such  as  to  ex- 
clude them  from  a place  in  the  great  brotherhood  of 
men ; if,  lastly,  no  resemblance  were  found,  I will  not 
say  in  primary  articles  of  belief,  but  in  the  memory  of 
specific  incidents,  and  in  those  minor  forms  of  human 
thought  and  culture  which  will  hardly  bear  to  be  ex- 
plained on  the  hypothesis  of  ‘natural  evolution.’  we 
might  then,  perhaps,  have  cause  to  hesitate  in  our  deci- 
sion” (Christ  and  other  Masters,  ii,  120  sq.).  There  is 
literally  nothing,  according  to  our. ablest  writers,  either 
in  the  hodily  structure  or  psychology  of  the  American 
tribes  to  prove  an  independent,  origin,  or  even  to  beget 
suspicions  touching  a plurality  of  races;  while,  accord- 
ing to  Mr.  Squicr,  of  the  words  known  to  have  been  in 
use  in  America  one  hundred  and  four  coincide  with 
words  found  in  the  languages  of  Asia  and  Australia, 
forty-three  with  those  of  Europe,  and  forty  with  those 
of  Africa.  In  addition,  however,  to  the  migration  sug- 
gested by  the  above  quotations,  two  circumstances  seem 
to  point  most  clearly  to  a connection  of  our  aboriginal 
Indians  with  the  Malay. Mongol, or  Tartar  race:  l.The 
monosyllabic  character  of  their  languages;  and,  2.  The 
obvious  similarity  in  complexion  and  general  physical 
constitution.  The  case  of  the  Aztecs,  moreover,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  Mexicans  and  Peruvians,  indicates  a de- 
generacy from  an  earlier  civilization,  like  that  of  the 
Chinese  and  Japanese. 


3.  Legends. — The  Indian  myths  of  the  creation,  the 
deluge,  the  epochs  of  nature,  and  the  last  day,  are  nu- 
merous and  clear,  although  it  seems  more  difficult  to 
ascertain  here  what  does  and  what  does  not  antedate 
European  influence.  “ Before  the  creation,”  said  the 
Muscogees,  “ a great  body  of  water  was  alone  visible. 
Two  pigeons  flew  to  and  fro  over  its  waves, ’and  at  last 
spied  a blade  of  grass  rising  above  the  surface.  Dry 
land  gradually  followed,  and  the  islands  and  continents 
took  their  present  shapes.” 

Many  of  the  tribes  trace  their  descent  from  a raven, 
“a  mighty  bird,  whose  eyes  were  fire,  whose  glances 
were  lightning,  and  the  clapping  of  whose  wings  was 
thunder.  On  his  descent  to  the  ocean  the  earth  instant- 
ly rose,  and  remained  on  the  surface  of  the  water.  This 
omnipotent  bird  then  called  forth  all  the  variety  of  ani- 
mals.” The  early  Algonquin  legends  do  not  speak  of 
any  family  -who  escaped  the  deluge,  nor  did  the  Dako- 
tas, who  firmly  believed  the  world  had  been  destroyed 
by  water.  Generally,  however,  the  legends  made  some 
to  have  escaped  by  ascending  some  mountain,  on  a raft 
or  canoe,  in  a cave,  or  by  climbing  a tree.  The  pyra- 
mids of  Cholula,  the  mounds  of  the  Mississippi  Talley, 
the  vast  and  elaborate  edifices  in  the  artificial  hills  of 
Yucatan,  would  seem  to  have  direct  reference  to  the 
hill  on  which  the  ancestors  of  these  people  escaped  in 
past  deluges,  or  from  the  realm  of  rains,  called  the  Hill 
of  Heaven.  They  mostly  make  the  last  destruction  of 
the  world  to  have  been  by  water,  though  some  few  rep- 
resent it  to  have  been  by  fire. 

4.  Religious  Beliefs. — It  is  generally  believed  that 
all  approximations  to  monotheism  observed  among  the 
tribes  of  the  New  World  are  little  more  than  verbal. 
Their  “ Great  Spirit,”  as  the  phrase  stands  among  Eu- 
ropeans, is  at  best  the  highest  member  of  a group  of 
spirits.  He  may  be  a personification  of  the  mightiest 
of  all  natural  energies,  but  not  a personality  distinct 
from  nature,  and  controlling  all  things  by  his  sovereign 
will.  He  is  devoid  of  almost  everything  which  consti- 
tutes the  glory  of  the  God  of  revelation.  In  spite  of 
whatever  grandeur,  goodness,  or  ubiquity  he  may  be 
endowed  with,  he  exercises  no  control  over  the  lives  of 
individuals  or  the  government  of  the  world.  “ There  is 
no  attempt,”  says  Mr.  Schoolcraft, “by  the  hunter-priest- 
hood, jugglers,  or  powwows,  which  can  be  gathered  from 
their  oral  tradition,  to  impute  to  the  great,  merciful 
Spirit  the  attribute  of  justice,  or  to  make  man  account- 
able to  him  here  or  hereafter  for  aberrations  from  virtue, 
good-will,  truth,  or  any  moral  right”  (Red  Races'). 
Their  ideas  of  God  have  been  almost  exclusively  found 
to  be  connected  with  some  natural  phenomena,  and  the 
almost  poetic  way  in  which  they  look  at  it  suggests 
that  much  of  their  religious  thought  received  complex- 
ion from  their  hunter-life.  For  the  most  part,  their 
conceptions  of  deity’'  seem  to  have  been  connected  with 
the  phenomena  of  the  meteorological  or  atmospheric 
world,  and  with  their  observations  concerning  light  and 
fire.  The  highest  good  is  generally  symbolized  as  the 
storm-god  or  the  sun-god,  these  being  sometimes  blend- 
ed and  sometimes  distinct.  We  may  sec  an  illustration 
of  them  as  united  in  their  adoration  of  the  four  cardi- 
nal points  of  the  compass,  and  in  their  notions  of  the 
sacred  four  birds,  four  mothers,  or  four  primitive  broth- 
ers, the  progenitors  of  the  human  family.  Their  high- 
est deity  is  always  their  highest  ideal  of  civilization  and 
of  the  arts  of  peace,  and  to  him  they  always  accord  the 
better  attributes  of  mankind.  The  god  of  light  is  often 
spoken  of  as  the  founder  of  the  nation,  sometimes  as  its 
progenitor,  or  introducing  arts,  sciences,  and  laws,  and 
as  having  led  them  in  their  earliest  wanderings.  The 
sun-god  is  the  dispenser  of  all  radiance  and  fertility,  the 
being  by  whose  light  and  heat  all  creatures  were  gener- 
ated and  sustained,  the  highest  pitch  of  excellence ; and 
even  when  transformed  into  a god  of  battle,  and  wor- 
shipped with  horrid  and  incongruous  rites,  or  fed  by 
human  hecatombs,  he  never  ceased  to  occupy  the  fore- 
most rank  among  the  good  divinities.  He  was  ever  the 


INDIANS 


559 


INDIANS 


“father,”  “sustainer,”  “revivifier.”  Muller  maintains 
that  there  were  numerous  subordinate  hostile  deities, 
who  created  discord,  sickness,  death,  and  every  possible 
form  of  evil,  and  that  in  many  eases  these  were  reputed 
to  be  under  the  leadership  of  the  moon,  which  was  the 
parent  of  misfortune  with  some,  and  yet  was  the  chief  di- 
vinity of  other  of  the  warlike  races,  such  as  the  Caribs. 

The  Manito  or  Manedo  is  alleged  to  have  no  personal 
meaning, but  to  be  equivalent  to  “spirit,”  or  “a  spirit,” 
perhaps  somewhat  akin  to  our  thought  of  a guardian 
spirit.  Schoolcraft  thinks  that,  so  far  as  a meaning  dis- 
tinct from  an  invisible  existence  attaches  to  it  at  all,  the 
tendency  is  to  a bad  meaning,  and  that  a bad  meaning 
is  distinctly  conveyed  in  the  inflection  osh  or  ish  ( Red 
Races , p.  214).  In  considering  this  belief  in  manitos  it 
is  necessary  to  remember  that  the  Indian  conceives  ev- 
ery department  of  the  universe  to  be  filled  with  invisi- 
ble spirits,  holding  the  same  relation  to  matter  that  the 
soul  does  to  the  body,  and  in  accordance  with  which,  not 
only  every  man,  but  every  animal,  has  a soul,  and  is  en- 
dowed with  a reasoning  faculty.  Dreams  are  a means 
of  direct  communication  with  the  spiritual  world,  and 
are  generally  regarded  as  the  friendly  warnings  of  their 
personal  manitos.  No  labor  or  enterprise  is  undertaken 
against  their  indications,  whole  armies  being  sometimes 
turned  back  by  dreams  of  the  officiating  priest.  Under 
the  guidance  of  a particular  spirit,  names  are  commonly 
supposed  to  be  bestowed.  These  personal  spirits  are 
invoked  to  give  success  in  hunting.  These  manitos  are, 
however,  of  varied  ability,  and  there  is  a constant  fear 
lest  the  manito  of  a neighbor  may  prove  more  pov'erfid 
than  one’s  own. 

The  mythological  personages  who  are  the  heroes  of 
Indian  tales,  and  who  are  in  some  way  associated  with 
the  highest  good,  as  set  forth  above,  may  be  represented 
by  Miehaho  or  Manibozho  of  the  Algonquins,  and  Quet- 
zalcoatl,  the  god  of  the  air,  the  highest  dcitjr  of  the  Tol- 
tecs.  The  same  deity  appears  with  more  or  less  of 
modification  among  all  the  tribes,  though  under  various 
names.  It  is  IsoTceha  among  the  Iroquois,  Wasi  among 
the  Cherokees,  Tamoi  with  the  Caribs,  Zamna  with 
the  Mayas,  Nemqueteba  with  the  Muyseas,  Viraco- 
clia  among  the  Avmaras,  etc.  Among  them  all  he  ap- 
pears as  the  one  who  taught  them  agriculture,  the  art 
of  picture-writing,  the  properties  of  plants,  and  the  se- 
crets of  magic;  who  founded  their  institutions,  estab- 
lished their  religions,  and  taught  them  government. 

There  were  presentiments  of  a better  time  to  come 
connected  with  the  return  of  these  heroes  of  their  tales, 
which  it  is  thought  had  much  to  do  with  the  sudden 
collapse  of  the  great  empires  of  Mexico  and  Peru,  of  the 
Natchez  and  the  Mayas  before  the  Spaniards.  Associ- 
ated in  their  legends  with  the  return  of  their  gods  and 
the  better  time  was,  in  most  cases,  the  notion  of  the 
coming  of  a white  man  of  superior  strength  from  the 
father  of  the  sun. 

5.  The  Soul  and  a future  Life. — The  immortality  of 
the  human  soul  is  universal^  believed  by  the  North- 
Ameriean  Indians. 

Among  all  the  tribes  sold  is  equivalent  to  breath,  or 
the  wind.  The  same  person  may  have  more  than  one 
soid ; some  say  four,  and  others  even  more  than  this 
number.  Generally,  however,  there  is  some  distinction 
made  in  these  souls.  One  may  remain  with  the  body, 
being  attached  to  its  earthly  functions,  and  is  absorbed 
in  the  elements,  while  another  soul  may  pass  away  to 
the  “ITappy  Hunting-grounds;”  or,  in  other  cases,  one 
may  watch  the  body,  one  wander  about  the  world,  one 
hover  about  the  village,  and  another  go  to  the  spirit 
land.  According  to  an  author  quoted  by  Air.  Brinton, 
certain  Oregon  tribes  located  a spirit  “ whenever  they 
could  detect  a pulsation,”  the  supreme  one  being  in  the 
heart,  and  which  alone  would  go  to  the  skies  at  death. 

Among  all  the  tribes,  from  the  Arctic  region  to  the 
tropics,  the  abode  of  the  departed  soul  is  declared  to  be 
where  the  highest  good,  i.  e.  Avhere  light  comes  from,  or, 
in  other  words,  in  the  sun-realm.  Hence  the  soul  is 


variously  said  to  go  at  death  towards  the  east,  or  to- 
wards the  west,  the  place  of  the  coming  or  departure  of 
the  light,  or  among  some  northern  tribes,  to  whom  the 
sun  lay  in  a southern  direction,  the  soul  is  said  to  go  to- 
wards the  south.  It  is  in  this  realm  of  light  or  sphere 
of  the  sun-god  that  this  permanent  soul  finds  its  ulti- 
mate home.  “Spirituality  is  clogged  with  earthly  ac- 
cidents even  in  the  future  world.  The  soul  hungers, 
and  food  must  be  deposited  at  the  grave  to  supply  its 
need.  It  suffers  from  cold,  and  the  body  must  be  wrap- 
ped about  with  clothes.  It  is  in  darkness,  and  a light 
must  be  kindled  at  the  head  of  the  grave.  It  wanders 
through  plains  and  across  streams,  subject  to  the  vicis- 
situdes of  this  life,  in  quest  of  a place  of  enjoyment. 
Among  some  northern  tribes  a dog  was  slain  on  the 
grave,  and  there  are  indications  of  a like  practice  hav- 
ing obtained  in  Mexico  and  Peru.”  In  other  localities, 
and  where  the  government  was  despotic,  not  only  ani- 
mals, but  men,  women,  and  children  urere  often  sacri- 
ficed at  the  tomb  of  the  “cacique.”  There  are  traces 
of  this  on  the  Lower  Mississippi.  Among  the  Natchez 
Indians,  when  a chief  died,  “one  or  several  of  his  wives 
and  his  highest  officers  were  knocked  on  the  head,  and 
buried  with  him.”  There  is  the  belief  among  many  of 
them  that  the  soul  needs  light,  particularly  for  four 
nights  or  days  after  death,  as  it  is  either  confined  in  the 
body,  or  “ wandering  over  a gloomy  marsh,”  or  in  some 
other  perplexity  which  prevents  its  ascending  to  the 
skies.  The  natives  of  the  extreme  south,  of  the  Pampas 
and  the  Patagonians,  suppose  the  stars  to  be  the  souls 
of  the  departed. 

According  to  some,  there  is  but  little  trace,  if  any,  of 
a clear  conception  of  a system  of  rewards  and  punish- 
ments, as  there  certainly  do  not  seem  to  have  been  very 
clear  distinctions  between  vice  and  virtue,  as  in  anywise 
related  to  a future  world.  The  difference  between  the 
soul’s  comfort  and  discomfort  in  a future  life,  in  so  far 
as  it  is  made  a matter  of  degree  at  all,  was  made  to  de- 
pend, as  in  the  Mexican  mythology,  on  the  mode  of 
death.  "Women  dying  in  childbirth  were  associated  in 
the  categor}'  of  worth  and  merited  happiness  with  war- 
riors dying  in  battle.  In  Guatemala  a violent  death 
in  any  shape  was  sufficient  to  banish,  in  after-life,  from 
the  felicitous  regions.  The  Brazilian  natives  divided 
the  dead  into  classes,  making  those  drowned,  or  killed 
by  violence,  or  yielding  to  disease,  to  go  into  separate 
regions;  but  there  seems  to  be  no  reason  founded  in 
morals  connected  with  this.  It  is  but  just  to  say  that 
others  take  a different  view  of  this  part  of  the  subject 
from  that  here  set  forth.  The  abbe  Em.  Domeneeh,  w ho 
spent  seven  years  among  these  tribes,  gives  traditions 
which  favor  the  doctrine  of  future  rewards  and  pun- 
ishments for  the  good  or  bad  deeds  of  this  life  (p.  283). 
Other  tribes,  however,  seem  to  know  nothing  of  punish- 
ments. The  Master  of  Life,  or  Merciful  Spirit,  will  be  alike 
merciful  to  all,  irrespective  of  the  acts  of  this  life,  or  of 
any  degree  of  moral  turpitude.  They  see  nowhere  clear 
conceptions  of  virtue  and  vice  even  in  this  world.  Sin, 
they  say,  is  only  represented  at  worst  as  a metaphorical 
going  astray,  as  of  one  who  loses  his  path  in  the  w oods, 
though  this  may  suggest  much  more  than  this  class  of 
persons  admit.  That  there  is  a moral  sentiment  is  ad- 
mitted in  connection  with  their  civil  and  social  life,  but 
not  as  connected  with  their  future  state.  Their  pray- 
ers are  almost  wholly  for  temporal,  and  not  for  moral 
blessings;  but  there  may  be  found  an  assumption  of 
moral  qualities  or  ethical  character  in  connection  with 
their  gods,  as  in  the  case  of  Quetzaleoatl  above  alluded 
to,  ivho  is  the  founder  of  their  civil  code,  and  who  insti- 
tuted the  household,  instilled  patriotism,  etc.  The  Mex- 
icans had  another  place  for  the  souls  of  those  dying  by 
lightning-stroke,  dropsies,  leprosies,  etc.,  who  could  not 
go  to  the  home  of  the  sun,  but  who  must  go  to  the  realm 
of  the  god  of  the  rains  and  waters,-  called  Tlalocan. 

There  are  indications  of  the  doctrine  of  metempsycho- 
sis, and  also  of  the  doctrine  of  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead.  The  vast  tumuli,  though  they  were  not  all  con- 


INDIANS 


INDIANS  560 


nected  with  funeral  rites,  are  summoned  in  testimony 
of  this  doctrine.  The  custom  of  collecting  and  cleans- 
ing the  bones — usually  once  in  eight  or  ten  years — of 
those  who  had  died  in  the  tribe,  and  then  burying  them 
in  a common  sepulchre  “lined  with  choice  furs,  and 
marked  with  a mound  of  wood,  stone,  or  earth,”  was 
common  east  of  the  Mississippi.  This  has  been  sup- 
posed to  be  connected  with  the  theory  that  a part  of  the 
soul,  or  one  of  the  souls,  dwelt  in  the  bones,  and  that 
these  seed-souls,  so  to  speak,  would  one  day  germinate 
into  living  human  beings.  Parts  of  their  mythology 
afford  support  to  such  a supposition.  An  Aztec  legend 
is  to  the  effect  that  when  the  human  species  had  been 
destroyed  from  off  the  face  of  the  world,  it  was  restored 
by  one  of  the  gods  descending  to  the  realm  of  the  dead, 
and  bringing  thence  a bone  of  the  perished  race,  which 
they  sprinkled  with  blood,  and  on  the  fourth  day  it  be- 
came a youth,  the  father  of  the  present  race. 

6.  Funeral  Rites. — The  mounds  used  for  funeral  ser- 
vices are  found,  for  the  most  part,  within  walls  of  in- 
trenched camps  and  fortified  towns.  On  the  top  of  these 
tumuli  are  altars  of  baked  clay  or  stone,  varying  in 
length  from  a few  inches  to  many  yards.  The  mounds 
are  found  in  very  large  numbers,  and  have  an  average 
height  of  eight  or  ten  yards,  being  usually  in  the  form 
of  a simple  cone,  or  of  a pear  or  egg.  The  dead  were 
frequently  burned  before  they  were  buried,  funeral  urns 
having  often  been  discovered,  as  also  beds  of  charcoal. 
With  the  dead  were  generally  interred  the  ornaments, 
arms,  and  other  objects  belonging  to  them  during  life. 
The  mounds  sometimes  contain  silver,  brass,  stone,  or 
bone,  beads,  shells,  pieces  of  silex,  quartz,  garnet,  points 
of  arrows,  fossil  teeth  of  sharks,  sculptures  of  human 
heads,  pottery,  etc.  The  customs  observed  in  the  burial 
of  their  dead  differ  in  the  different  tribes.  They  all, 
however,  paint  the  corpse  black.  The  feet  of  the  corpses 
are  turned  to  the  rising  sun.  The  Ornahas  swathe  the 
bodies  with  bandages  made  of  skins,  and  place  them  on 
the  branches  of  a tree,  with  a wooden  vase  filled  with 
dried  meat  by  their  side,  which  is  renewed  from  time  to 
time.  The  Sioux  bury  their  dead  on  the  summit  of  a 
hill  or  mountain,  and  plant  on  the  tomb  a cedar-tree, 
which  may  be  seen  from  a distance.  The  Chinooks 
wrap  the  bodies  of  their  dead  in  skins,  bind  their  eyes, 
put  little  shells  in  their  nostrils,  and  dress  them  in  most 
beautiful  clothes,  and  then  place  them  in  a canoe,  which 
is  allowed  to  drift  on  a lake,  or  river,  or  the  Pacific 
Ocean.  The  Shoshones  burn  their  dead,  with  every- 
thing belonging  to  them.  Among  other  tribes  of  the 
West  the  warriors  are  buried  on  horseback,  with  bow, 
and  buckler,  and  quiver,  and  pipe,  and  medicine-bag, 
tobacco,  and  dried  meats.  The  Assiniboins  suspend 
their  dead  by  thongs  of  leather  between  the  branches 
of  great  trees,  or  place  them  on  high  scaffoldings,  to 
keep  them  from  wild  animals.  The  Ottawas  sacrifice  a 
horse  on  the  tomb  of  the  dead,  strangling  the  animal  by 
a noose.  When  a tribe  emigrate,  they  carry  with  them, 
if  possible,  the  bones  of  their  dead  which  have  been  pre- 
served, or  bury  them  in  a cave,  or  hill,  or  wood. 

7.  Religious  Usages. — The  Indians  are  alleged  by 
Domenech  to  have  had  a few  customs  not  wholly  unlike 
some  which  obtained  among  the  Jews.  They  have 
some  feasts  at  which  they  are  obliged  to  eat  all  that 
has  been  prepared  for  the  banquet.  They  observe  a 
feast  of  first-fruits,  and  have  some  forbidden  meats,  re- 
garding some  animals  as  impure.  They  observe  the 
custom  of  sacrificing  the  first  animal  killed  on  the  open- 
ing of  great  hunts,  the  animal  being  entirely  eaten. 
They  carry'  amulets  under  the  name  of  medicine-bags, 
and  accord  a subordinate  species  of  worship  to  idols  of 
stone,  wood,  or  baked  clay.  The  amulets,  lucky  stones, 
and  charms  existed  everywhere,  and  were  a chief  ob- 
ject of  barter.  In  Yucatan  and  Peru  pilgrimages  to  sa- 
cred shrines  were  so  common  as  that,  in  some  instances, 
“ roads  paved  with  cut  stones”  were  constructed  to  facil- 
itate the  attendance  on  certain  temples,  and  houses  of 
entertainment  constructed  along  the  way. 


The  priesthood  of  the  country  has  been  considered  by 
those  long  familiar  with  the  subject  to  have  done  more 
than  any  other  agency  to  keep  these  tribes  from  becom- 
ing civilized.  They  are  often  spoken  of  as  medicine- 
men, and  are  variously  styled  by  the  Algonquins  and 
Dakotas  “ those  knowing  divine  things,”  “ dreamers  of 
the  gods ;”  in  Mexico,  “ masters  or  guardians  of  the  di- 
vine things ;”  in  Cherokee  their  title  means  “ possessed 
of  the  divine  fire  ;”  in  Iroquois,  “keepers  of  the  faith 
in  Quichua,  “the  learned;”  in  Maya,  “the  listeners.” 
As  medicine-men,  they  tried  to  frighten  the  daemon 
that  possessed  the  patient;  sucked  and  blew  upon  the 
diseased  organ,  sprinkled  it  with  water,  rubbed  the 
parts  with  their  hands,  and  made  an  image  representa- 
tive of  the  spirit  of  sickness,  and  knocked  it  to  pieces. 
They  were  much  skilled  in  tricks  of  legerdemain,  set- 
ting fire  to  articles  of  clothing  and  instantly  extinguish- 
ing the  flames  by  magic.  They  summoned  spirits  to 
answer  questions  about  the  future,  and  possessed  clair- 
voyant powers;  and  they  were  reputed  to  be  even  able 
to  raise  the  dead.  They  consecrated  amulets,  inter- 
preted dreams,  cast  horoscopes,  rehearsed  legends,  per- 
formed sacrifices,  and,  in  short,  constituted  the  chief 
centre  of  the  intellectual  force  of  the  people.  They  are 
thus  a kind  of  priests,  doctors,  and  charlatans,  who  per- 
form penance,  and  submit  to  mutilation,  fasting,  and 
self-mortification.  They  observe  with  minute  attention 
the  shape  and  color  of  the  clouds,  their  volume  and  di- 
rection, and  their  position  relatively  to  the  sun  and  ho- 
rizon. Carnivorous  birds  are  considered  precursors  of 
war;  their  flight  indicates  the  time  and  place  at  which 
future  battles  will  be  fought;  they'  go  to  and  fro  carry- 
ing messages  for  the  spirit  of  battle.  The  priest  is  par- 
ticularly important  in  the  ceremony  which  is  necessary' 
to  secure  rain.  The  medicine  lodge  is  used  for  nearly' 
all  ceremonies. 

8.  Present  Location  and  Numbers, — The  large  propor- 
tion of  the  Indians  of  the  United  States  are  now  gath- 
ered within  the  Indian  Territory',  on  “ Reservations”  as- 
signed them  by'  the  United-States  government.  There 
are  others,  however,  in  Oregon,  Alaska,  New  Mexico, 
etc.  Within  the  Indian  Territory  they  do  not  “live  by 
fishing,  hunting,  and  trapping,  but  cultivate  the  soil,  are 
settled,  and  have  attained  a considerable  degree  and 
shown  a susceptibility'  of  genuine  civilization.” 

From  the  Second  Annual  Report  of  the  Board  of  In- 
dian Commissioners  (United-States  government),  1870, 
we  collect  the  following  statistics.  There  are  of  the 
various  tribes  within  the  Indian  Territory',  Choctaws, 
16,000;  C’lierokees,  17,000;  Muscogees  or  Creeks,  13,000; 
Seminoles,  2500 ; Chickasaws,  6000;  Osages,  4000;  Pe- 
orias,  170;  Ottawas,  175;  Sacs  and  Foxes,  700;  Qna- 
paws,  236.  Of  the  Apaches  of  Arizona  and  New  Mex- 
ico there  are  14,349,  and  of  a group  of  tribes  in  Oregon 
837.  No  statistics  of  the  Oneidas  in  Wisconsin  are  giv- 
en. For  the  work  of  the  missionary  societies  amongst 
these  Indians,  see  Missions. 

9.  Literature. — Brinton,  Myths  of  New  World  (N.  Y. 

1868) ; Waitz,  A nthropologie  der  Natur-  Yolker  (Leipzig, 
1862-66);  Catlin,  N.  A m.  Indians  (Lond.  1841) ; Muller, 
Gesch.  der  Amerikanischen  Ur-religionen  (Basel,  1855); 
Squicr,  The  Serpent  Symbol  of  America  (N.  York,  1851); 
Hawking,  Sketch  of  the  Creek  Country  (Georgia  Hist. 
Soc.  1848);  Schoolcraft,  Red  Races  of  America  (N.  Y, 
1847) ; Notes  on  the  Iroquois  (Albany',  1848)  ; Hist,  and 
Statist.  Information  prepared  for  the  Indian  Bureau  of 
the  U.  S.  Govei-nment  (Philad.  1851) ; Domenech,  Seven 
I'ears’  Residence  in  the  great  Deserts  of  North  America 
(London,  1860, 2 vols.  8vo) ; Brainard,  A Journal  among 
the  Indians  (Philadel.) ; Prescot  t's  Conquest  of  Mexico ; 
Cop  way'.  Traditional  Hist,  of  the  Ojibway  Nation  (Lond. 
1850) ; M‘Coy,  / list,  of  the  Bapt.  Indian  Missions : Sirs. 
Eastman,  Legends  of  the  Sioux;  History  of  the  Catholic 
Missions  amo7ig  the  Indian  Tribes  from  1529  to  1824  (N. 
Y.  1855) ; Trans.  A m.  Ethn . Soc.  (1848) ; Relations  de  la 
Nouvelle  France  (Quebec,  1858) ; Mr.  Duponceaux’s  Re- 
port to  Amer.  Philos.  Soc.  (1819,  8vo).  (J.  T.  G.) 


INDICTIO  FESTOR.  MOBILIUM  5G1 


INDIFFERENTISM 


Indictio  Festorum  Mobilium.  See  Indictio 
Paschalis. 

Indiction  (Latin  indictio,  a declaring)  is  a term 
which  designates  “a  chronological  system,  including  a 
circle  of  fifteen  years:  (1)  the  Ctesurean,  used  long  in 
France  and  Germany,  beginning  on  Sept.  24;  (2)  the 
Const  ant  inopolitan,  used  in  the  East  from  the  time  of  An- 
astasius,  and  beginning  Sept.  1 ; and  (3)  the  Papal,  reck- 
oned from  Jan.  1,313.  The  Council  of  Antioch,  34 1 , first 
gives  a documentary  date,  the  14th  indiction.  The  com- 
putation prevailed  in  Syria  in  the  fifth  century,  and  is 
mentioned  by  Ambrose  as  existing  at  Home.  It  is,  how- 
ever, asserted  that  in  the  West,  the  East,  and  Egypt, 
with  the  exception  of  Africa,  the  indictions,  until  the 
16th  century,  were  reckoned  from  Sept.  1,312,  and  that 
they  commenced  in  Egypt  in  the  time  of  Constantine.” 
— Walcott,  Sacred  A rchceology,  p.  327 ; see  also  Gibbon, 
Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire,  ii,  141.  See  Cv- 

CLE. 

Indictio  Paschalis.  It  was  an  old  custom  in 
the  Christian  Church  of  the  early  ages  to  announce  on 
Epiphany  (q.  v.)  the  days  on  which  Easter  would  fall, 
and  this  announcement  was  called  the  Indictio  pascha- 
lis; but  as  on  the  appointment  of  the  days  on  which 
Easter  should  be  observed  depended  the  appointment 
of  the  movable  feasts,  this  announcement  was  called 
the  Indictio  festorum  mobilium.  The  first  practices  of 
this  kind  we  find  in  the  Alexandrian  Church,  but  it  soon 
became  general  throughout  the  Christian  Church,  even 
by  ecclesiastical  enactments.  Thus  the  fourth  Synod 
at  Orleans  {Condi.  A urelian.  iv,  c.  1)  ordered  its  observ- 
ance, and  even  the  fifth  Synod  at  Carthage  (A.D.  401, 
Condi.  Cart  hag.  v,  can.  7)  ordered  a written  announce- 
ment, which  was  called  Epistola  paschalis  et  heortastica. 
See  Bingham,  A ntiquit.  Ecclesiast.  ix,  85  sq. ; Augusti, 
Ilandbuch  der  Christ!.  A rchaol.  i,  544;  Piddle,  Christian 
Antiquities,  p.  687.  (J.  11.  W.) 

Indifference,  Liberty  oe,  a name  sometimes  giv- 
en, by  metaphysical  and  theological  writers,  to  the  pow- 
er in  the  human  mind  of  choosing  between  opposing 
motives,  or  of  resisting  or  yielding  to  a given  motive. 
The  upholders  of  fatalism  consider  this  “liberty  of  in- 
difference” as  a chimera.  If  we  were  indifferent,  say 
they,  to  the  motives  which  determine  our  actions,  we 
should  cither  not  act  at  all,  or  we  should  act  without 
motive,  at  hazard,  and  our  actions  would  be  effects  with- 
out cause.  But  this  is  intentionally  confounding  indif- 
ference and  insensibility.  We  are  necessarily  sensible 
to  a motive  when  that  motive  induces  us  to  act,  but  the 
question  at  issue  is  whether  there  is  a necessary  con- 
nection between  such  a motive  and  such  volition ; that 
is,  whether,  when  such  a motive  induces  us  to  will  any- 
thing, we  can  or  cannot  will  the  contrary  in  spite  of 
that  motive,  or  whether  we  cannot  prefer  another  mo- 
tive to  that  by  which  we  determine  to  act.  As  soon  as 
it  is  supposed  that  we  act  from  a motive,  it  cannot  be 
supposed  that  this  motive  does  not  determine  us  to  act, 
for  the  two  suppositions  would  contradict  each  other: 
but  it  may  be  asked  whether,  before  any  supposition,  our 
will  was  connected  with  the  motive  in  such  a manner 
as  to  render  a contrary  volition  impossible.  The  advo- 
cates of  moral  liberty  maintain  that  there  is  no  physical 
or  necessary  connection  between  motives  and  volition, 
but  only  a moral  connection,  which  does  not  prevent  our 
resisting;  in  other  words,  that  motives  are  the  moral, 
not  the  physical  causes  of  our  actions.  Because  we  are 
said  to  be  determined  by  a motive,  it  does  not  follow  that 
that  motive  acts,  and  we  remain  passive;  it  is  absurd 
to  suppose  that,  an  active  faculty  like  volition  could  be- 
come passive  under  the  influence  of  a motive,  or  that 
this  motive,  which  after  all  is  but  an  idea,  a thought, 
could  act  upon  ns  as  we  act  upon  a body  we  put  in  mo- 
tion. This  metaphysical  question  is  intimately  con- 
nected with  another  long  discussed  by  theologians, 
namely,  the  mode  of  action  of  grace  on  us,  and  in  what 
sense  grace  is  to  be  understood  as  being  the  cause  of 
IV.— X x 


onr  actions.  Those  who  consider  it  as  their  physical 
cause  must,  to  be  consistent,  suppose  the  same  relation 
between  grace  and  the  action  to  which  it  led  as  between 
any  physical  cause  and  its  effect.  As,  according  to  nat- 
ural philosophy,  the  relation  in  the  latter  case  is  a nec- 
essary one,  we  cannot  perceive  how  the  action  produced 
under  the  influence  of  grace  can  be  free.  For  this  rea- 
son, other  theologians  look  upon  grace  only  as  the  moral 
cause  of  our  actions,  and  admit  between  this  cause  and 
its  effects  only  a moral  connection,  such  as  exists  be- 
tween all  free  action  and  its  motive.  It  is,  indeed,  God 
who  acts  in  us  through  grace,  but  his  operation  is  so 
similar  to  that  of  nature  that  we  are  often  unable  to 
distinguish  between  them.  When  we  perform  a good 
action  under  the  influence  of  grace— a supernatural  mo- 
tive— we  feel  as  active,  as  free,  as  well  masters  of  our 
actions  as  when  doing  it  from  a natural  motive,  from 
temperament  or  interest.  Why  should  we  try  to  be- 
lieve that  God  deceives  our  consciousness,  acting  upon 
us  as  though  he  left  us  free,  while  in  reality  he  does 
not?  Consciousness  testiiies  to  us  that  we  can  resist 
grace  as  readily  as  we  resist  our  natural  tastes  and  in- 
clinations. Thus  the  testimony  of  conscience,  that  we 
are  entirely  free  under  the  influence  of  grace,  is  com- 
plete. Let  us  not  forget  the  saving  of  St.  Augustine, 
that  grace  was  given  ns,  not  to  destroy,  but  to  restore 
our  free  agency.  The  Pelagians  erred  in  defining  free 
agency  to  be  indifference  towards  good  and  evil ; they 
understood  by  this  an  equal  inclination  to  either,  an 
equal  facility  for  choosing  right  or  wrong  (St. Augus- 
tine, Op.  imp.  1.  3,  n.  100, 1 10,  1 17 ; Letter  of  S.  Prosper, 
n.4).  They  concluded  from  this  that  if  grace  destroyed 
this  indifference,  it  would  thereby  destroy  free  agency. 
St.  Augustine  correctly  affirms,  in  opposition,  that  in 
consequence  of  Adam’s  sin  man  is  more  inclined  to  evil 
than  to  good,  and  that  he  needs  grace  to  restore  the 
equilibrium.  Those  who  accused  St.  Augustine  of  dis-' 
regarding  free  will  in  maintaining  the  necessity  of  grace, 
misunderstood  his  doctrine  as  much  as  the  Pelagians. — 
Bergier,  Diet,  de  Theologie,  iii,  394  sq.  (Comp.  Barrow, 

1 1 'oris,  ii,  47 ; Palmer,  Church  of  Christ,  i,  252-58,  321 
sq.)  See  Wile. 

Indifferentism  ( mdifferentismus ),  a word  much 
used 

I.  By  the  theologians  of  Germany  to  denote  (1.)  that 
state  of  mind  which  looks  upon  all  religions  (e.  g.  Chris- 
tianity and  Mohammedanism)  as  alike  valuable  or  val- 
ueless m proportion  as  they  agree  with  natural  relig- 
ion ; (2.)  that  state  of  mind  which,  carelessly  admitting 
the  truth  of  Christianity,  holds  that  all  discussion  as  to 
its  doctrines  is  unimportant.  An  astonishing  number 
of  books  has  been  written  upon  this  subject.  »See  Bud- 
deus,  Institt.  Theol.  Dogmat.  p.  60 ; Bretschneider,  Sys- 
tem. Entirickefung,  p.  13;  Schubert,  Institt.  Theol.  Polem. 
i,  569 ; Sack,  Christliche  Polemik,  p.  65 ; Herzog,  Real- 
Encyklop.  vi,  657 ; and  a full  list  of  books  on  the.  subject 
in  Danz,  Universal-  Worterbuch,  p.  449  sq.  See  Intol- 
erance; Latitudinartanism  ; Toleration. 

II.  Tne  term  is  used  also  to  denote  that  form  of  infi- 
delity, or  semi-infidelity,  which  holds  that  man  is  not 
responsible  for  his  beliefs.  “Gibbon,  speaking  of  the 
paganism  of  aneient  Rome,  says,  ‘The  various  modes  of 
worship  which  prevailed  in  the  Roman  world  were  all 
considered  by  the  people  as  equally  true,  by  the  philos- 
opher as  equally  false,  and  by  the  magistrate  as  equally 
useful.’  The  comment  of  some  one  is,  ‘After  eighteen 
centuries  of  the  Gospel,  we  seem  unhappily  to  be  com- 
ing back  to  the  same  point.’  A very  weakened  sense 
of  responsibility,  or  an  actual  denial  of  it,  lies  at  the  bot- 
tom of  that  indifferentism  which  is  so  extensively  prev- 
alent in  the  present  age.  On  the  Continent,  especially 
in  Germany  and  France,  not  only  are  opinions  destruc- 
tive of  the  sense  of  responsibility  widely  diffused  among 
the  masses,  but  in  the  case  of  vast  multitudes,  who 
would  not  wish  to  be  counted  the  foes  of  Christianity, 
there  is  an  utter  absence  of  anything  like  the  religious 
obligation  of  belief.  There  is  also  a great  deal  of  this 


INDIFFERENTISM  562  INDRA 


kind  of  infidelity  in  England  and  America.  It  is  stated, 
or  implied,  in  much  of  our  current  popular  literature, 
that  a man’s  erced  does  not  depend  upon  himself.  1 his 
dogma  pervades  tine  writings  of  Mr.  Emerson.  Napo- 
leon, one  of  his  ‘ representative  men,’  of  whom  he  tells 
< horrible  anecdotes,’  must  not,  in  his  view,  ‘ be  set  down 
as  cruel,  but  only  as  one  who  knew  no  impediment  to 
his  will.’  He  depicts  him  as  an  ‘exorbitant  egotist, 
who  narrowed,  impoverished,  and  absorbed  the  power 
and  existence  of  those  who  served  him;  and  concludes 
by  saying,  ‘ it  was  not  Bonaparte’s  fault.’  He  thus  con- 
demns and  acquits  in  the  same  breath,  sends  forth  from 
the  same  fountain  sweet  water  and  bitter.  Mr.  Theo- 
dore Barker  makes  each  form  of  religion  that  has  fig- 
ured in  the  history  of  the  world  ‘natural  and  indispens- 
able.’ ‘It  could  not  have  been  but  as  it  was.’  And, 
therefore,  he  finds  truth,  or  the  ‘absolute  religion,’  in  all 
forms ; ‘ all  tending  towards  one  great  and  beautiful 
end’  ( Discourse  of  Religion,  p.  81).  Of  course,  the  idea 
of  the  religious  obligation  of  belief  resting  upon  the  in- 
dividual conscience  is  here  quite  out  of  question.  Mr. 
F.  XV.  Newman,  who  is  so  fond  of  parting  off  things  that 
most  men  connect  together,  would  persuade  us  that  there 
may  be  a true  faith  without  a true  belief,  as  if  the  emo- 
tional part  of  our  nature  was  independent  of  the  intel- 
lectual. ‘ Belief,’  says  he,  ‘is  one  thing,  and  faith  an- 
other.’ And  he  complains  of  those  who,  on  religious 
grounds,  are  alienated  from  him  because  he  has  adopted 
‘intellectual  conclusions’ different  from  theirs — ‘the  dif- 
ference between  them  and  him’  turning  merely  ‘ on  ques- 
tions of  learning,  history,  criticism,  and  abstract  thought’ 
(Phases  of  Faith,  Preface).  The  philosophy  is  as  bad 
here  as  the  theology.  In  the  view  of  common  sense 
and  Scripture,  a living  faith  is  as  the  doctrine  believed. 
But  Mr.  Newman,  in  common  with  Mr.  Parker  and  oth- 
ers, can  lay  down  his  offensive  weapons  when  he  wills, 
and  take  up  a position  on  the  low  ground  of  indifference 
as  to  religions  belief.  Then,  creeds  become  matters  of 
mere  moonshine,  and  responsibility  is  regarded  as  a fic- 
tion invented  by  priests.  This  is  part  of  the  bad  theol- 
ogy of  Mr.  Bailey’s  * Festus.’  The  hero  of  the  poem  is 
made  to  say, 

“ ‘ Yet  merit  or  demerit  none  I see 

In  nature,  human  or  material, 

In  passions  or  affections  good  or  bad. 

We  only  know  that  God’s  best  purposes 

Are  oftenest  brought  about  by  dreadest  sins. 

Is  thunder  evil,  or  is  dew  divine? 

Does  virtue  lie  in  sunshine,  sin  in  storm  ? 

Is  not  each  natural,  each  needful,  best  V 

The  theory  of  this  infidelity  appears  to  be  that  man  has 
no  control  over  his  belief,  that  he  is  no  more  responsi- 
ble for  bis  opinions  than  he  is  for  his  color  or  his  height, 
and  that  an  infidel  or  an  atheist  is  to  be  pitied  but  not 
blamed.  This,  we  are  persuaded,  is  a piece  of  tlimsy 
sophistry  which  no  man  should  utter,  and  which  would 
not  be  listened  to  for  a moment  in  connection  with  anv 
other  subject  than  that  of  religion.  It  would  be  con- 
demned in  the  senate  and  at  the  bar,  it  would  be  drown- 
ed in  the  tumult  of  the  exchange  and  the  market-place. 
Common  sense,  and  a regard  to  worldly  interests,  would 
rise  up  and  hoot  down  the  traitor.  Unfortunately,  how- 
ever, in  the  province  of  religion,  the  natural  indisposi- 
tion of  the  mind  to  things  unseen  and  spiritual  allies  it- 
self with  the  pleadings  of  the  sophist,  and  receives  his 
doctrine  of  irresponsibility  with  something  like  flatter- 
ing unction.  Nothing  more  than  this  is  requisite  to  un- 
dermine the  foundation  of  all  religious  belief  and  mor- 
als, to  let  open  the  floodgates  of  immorality,  and  to 
make  the  restraints  of  religion  like  the  brittle  flax  or 
the  yielding  sand.  In  opposition  to  such  Iatitudinarian- 
ism,  we  maintain  that  man  is  responsible  for  the  dispo- 
sitions which  he  cherishes,  for  the  opinions  which  he 
holds  and  avows,  and  for  his  habitual  conduct.  This 
is  going  the  whole  length  of  Scripture,  but  no  farther, 
which  affirms  that  every  one  of  us  must  give  an  account 
of  himself  unto  God.  And  this  meets  with  a response 
from  amid  the  elements  of  man’s  moral  nature,  which 


sets  its  seal  that  the  thing  is  true”  (Pearson,  Prize  Es- 
say  on  Infidelity,  ch.  v).  (Comp.  Baumgarten,  Gesek.  der 
Religions- Pa rtheien,  p.  102  sq.)  See  Responsibility. 

Indifferent  things.  (Comp.  Harless,  System  of 
Christian  Ethics,  transl.  by  31  orison  and  Findlay,  Edin- 
burgh, 1868,  8 vo.)  See  Adiaphora. 

Indigetes  (sc.  Dii),  an  epithet  given  by  the  Ro- 
mans to  the  particular  gods  of  each  country,  who,  hav- 
ing been  natives  of  those  countries,  were  deified  by 
their  countrymen  after  death.  Thus  Romulus  was  one 
of  the  gods  Indigetes  of  the  Romans,  and  was  worshipped 
under  the  name  Quiriuus.  yEneas,  though  not  a native’ 
of  Italy,  yet,  as  founder  of  the  Roman  name,  was  ranked 
among  the  gods  Indigetes. — Broughton,  Biblioth.  Hist. 
Sac.  i,  530. 

Indignation,  a strong  disapprobation  of  mind,  ex- 
cited by  something  flagitious  in  the  conduct  of  another. 
It  does  not,  as  Mr.  Cogan  observes,  always  suppose  that 
excess  of  depravity  which  alone  is  capable  of  commit- 
ting deeds  of  horror.  Indignation  always  refers  to 
culpability  of  conduct,  and  cannot,  like  the  passion  of 
horror,  be  extended  to  distress  cither  of  body  or  mind. 
It  is  produced  by  acts  of  treachery,  abuse  of  confidence, 
base  ingratitude,  etc.,  which  we  cannot  contemplate 
without  being  provoked  to  anger,  and  feeling  a gener- 
ous resentment. — Cogan,  On  the  Passions;  Buck,  Theol. 
Dictionary,  s.  v.  See  Anger. 

Indra,  one  of  the  Hindu  deities  of  the  Vedic  period 
of  the  Hindu  religion,  who  also  enjoyed  a great  legen- 
dary popularity  in  the  Epic  and  Puranic  periods.  See 
Hinduism.  He  is,  so  to  speak,  the  Hindu  Jupiter.  He 
is  quite  frequently  styled  “Lord  of  heaven”  (divaspati 
—diespiter).  The  name  itself  is  of  doubtful  origin, 
meaning  either  (1)  “blue”  (as  epithet  of  the  firmament), 
or  (2)  “the  illuminator,”  or  (3)  “the  giver  of  rain’- 
(compare  AYuttke,G>sc/i.  des  Ileidenthams,  ii,  212).  Max 
31  idler  (Science  o f Language.  2d  series,  p.  449)  says  the 
name  “admits  of  but  one  etymology;  i.  c.  it  must  be  de- 
rived from  the  same  root,  whatever  that  may  be,  which 
in  Sanscrit  yielded  indu,  drop,  sap.  It  meant  originally 
the  giver  of  rain,  the  Jupiter  pluvius,  a deity  in  India 
more  often  present  to  the  mind  of  the  worshipper  than 
any  other”  (comp.  Benfev,  Orient  and  Occident,  i.  49). 
“In  that  class  of  Rig- Veda  hymns  which  there  is  reason 
to  look  upon  as  the  oldest  portion  of  Vedic  poetry,  the 
character  of  Indra  is  that  of  a mighty  ruler  of  the  bright 
firmament,  and  his  principal  feat  is  that  of  conquering 
the  daemon  Yritra,  a symbolical  personification  of  the 
cloud  which  obstructs  the  clearness  of  the  sky,  and  with- 
holds the  fructifying  rain  from  the  earth.  In  his  bat- 
tles with  Yritra  lie  is  therefore  described  as  ‘opening 
the  receptacles  of  the  waters,’  as  ‘cleaving  the  cloud’ 
with  his  ‘far-whirling  thunderbolt,’  as  ‘casting  the  wa 
ters  down  to  the  earth,’  and  ‘restoring  the  sun  to  the 
sky.’  He  is,  in  consequence,  ‘the  upholder  of  heaven, 
earth,  and  firmament,’  and  the  god  ‘who  has  engender- 
ed the  sun  and  the  dawn.’  And  since  the  atmospherical 
phenomena  personified  in  this  conception  are  ever  and 
ever  recurring,  he  is  ‘undecaying’  and  ‘ever  youthful.’ 
All  the  wonderful  deeds  of  Indra,  however,  are  perform- 
ed by  him  merely  for  the  benefit  of  the  good,  which,  in 
the  language  of  the  Veda,  means  the  pious  men  who 
worship  him  in  their  songs,  and  invigorate  him  with 
the  offerings  of  the  juice  of  the  soma  plant.  .See  Hin- 
duism. He  is,  therefore,  the  ‘lord  of  the.  virtuous,’  and 
the  ‘discomtiter  of  those  who  neglect  religious  rites.' 
Many  other  epithets,  which  we  have  not  space  to  enu- 
merate, illustrate  the  same  conception.  It  is  on  account 
of  the  paramount  influence  which  the  deeds  of  Indra 
exercise  on  the  material  happiness  of  man  that  this  de- 
ity occupies  a foremost  rank  in  the  Vedic  worship,  and. 
that  a greater  number  of  invocations  are  addressed  to 
him  than  to  any  other  of  the  gods  (comp.  Max  Muller, 
Chips  from  a German  Workshop,  i,  3U-32,  et  al.).  But 
to  understand  the  gradual  expansion  of  his  mythical 
character,  and  his  ultimate  degradation  to  an  inferior 


INDRA 


563 


INDULGENCES 


position  in  the  Hindu  pantheon  of  a later  period,  it  is 
necessary  to  bear  in  mind  that,  however  much  the  Yc- 
dic  poets  call  liulra  the  protector  of  the  pious  and  vir- 
tuous, he  is  in  their  songs  essentially  a warlike  god,  and 
gradually  endowed  by  imagination  not  only  with  the 
qualities  of  a mighty,  but  also  of  a self-willed  king, 
file  legends  which  represent  him  in  this  light  seem,  it 
is  true,  to  belong  to  a later  class  of  the  Rig-Yeda 
hymns,  but  they  show  that  the  original  conception  of 
Indra  excluded  from  his  nature  those  ethical  considera- 
tions which  in  time  changed  the  pantheon  of  element- 
ary gods  into  one  of  a different  stamp.  "Whether  the 
idea  of  an  incarnation  (q.  v.)  of  the  deity,  which,  at  the 
Epic  and  Puranic  periods,  played  so  important  a part 
in  the  history  of  Vishnu,  did  not  exercise  its  influence 
as  early  as  the  composition  of  some  of  the  Yedic  hymns 
in  honor  of  Indra,  may  at  least  be  matter  of  doubt,  lie 
is,  for  instance,  frequently  invoked  as  the  destroyer  of 
cities — of  seven,  of  ninety-nine,  even  of  a hundred  cities 
— and  he  is  not  only  repeatedly  called  the  slayer  of  the 
hostile  tribes  which  surrounded  the  Aryan  Hindus,  but 
some  of  the  chiefs  slain  by  him  are  enumerated  by  name. 
The  commentators,  of  course,  turn  those  ‘robbers’  and 
their  ‘ chiefs’  into  diemons,  and  their  cities  into  celestial 
abodes;  but  as  it  is  improbable  that  all  these  names 
should  be  nothing  but  person iticat ions  of  clouds  destroy- 
ed by  the  thunder-bolt  of  Indra,  it  is,  to  say  the  least,- 
questionable  whether  events  in  the  early  history  of  In- 
dia may  not  have  been  associated  with  the  deeds  of  In- 
dra himself,  in  like  manner  as,  at  the  Epic  period,  mor- 
tal hemes  were  looked  upon  as  incarnations  of  Yishnu, 
and  mortal  deeds  transformed  into  exploits  of  this  god. 

“The  purely  kingly  character  of  Indra  assumes  its 
typical  shape  in  the  A itareya-Brahmanu,  where  his  in- 
stallation as  lord  of  the  inferior  gods  is  described  with 
much  mystical  detail ; and  from  that  time  he  continues 
to  be  the  supreme  lord  of  the  minor  gods,  and  the  type 
of  a mortal  king.  During  the  Epic  and  Puranic  pe- 
riods, where  ethical  conceptions  of  the  divine  powers 
prevail  over  ideas  based  on  elementary  impressions,  In- 
dra ceases  to  enjoy  the  worship  he  had  acquired  at  the 
Yedic  time,  and  his  existence  is  chiefly  upheld  by  the 
poets,  who,  in  their  turn,  however,  work  it  out  in  the 
most  fantastical  detail.  Of  the  eight  guardians  of  the 
world,  he  is,  then,  the  one  who  presides  over  the  east, 
and  he  is  still  the  god  who  sends  rain  and  wields  the 
thunderbolt ; but  poetry  is  more  engrossed  by  the  beau- 
ty of  his  paradise,  Swurga,  the  happy  abode  of  the  in- 
ferior gods,  and  of  those  pious  men  who  attain  it  after 
death  in  consequence  of  having,  during  life,  properly 
discharged  their  religious  duties;  by  the  charms  of  his 
heavenly  nymphs,  the  Apsarasiis,  who  now  and  then 
descend  to  earth  to  disturb  the  equanimity  of  austere 
penitents;  by  the  musical  performances  of  his  choris- 
ters, the  G audit  arras ; by  the  splendor  of  his  capital, 
A mardrati ; by  the  fabulous  beauty  of  his  garden,  Xan- 
dana,  etc.  A remarkable  trait  in  this  legendary  life  of 
Indra  is  the  scries  of  his  conflicts  with  Krishna  (q.v.),an 
incarnation  of  Yishnu,  which  end,  however,  in  his  becom- 
ing reconciled  with  the  more  important  god.  As  the 
god  who  is  emphatically  called  the  god  of  the  hundred 
sacrifices  (Satakratu),  Indra  is  jealous  of  every  mortal 
who  may  have  the  presumption  of  aiming  at  the  per- 
formance of  that  number  of  sacrifices,  for  the  accom- 
plishment of  such  an  intention  would  raise  the  sacrificcr 
to  a rank  equal  to  that  which  he  occupies.  He  is, 
therefore,  ever  at  hand  to  disturb  sacrificial  acts  which 
may  expose  him  to  the  danger  of  having  his  power 
shared  by  another  Indra.  According  to  the  Pur  anas, 
the  reign  of  this  god  Indra,  who  is  frequently  called  also 
Sakra,  or  the  mighty,  does  not  last  longer  than  the 
first  M amcautara,  or  mundane  epoch.  After  each  suc- 
cessive destruction  of  the  world,  a new  Indra  was  cre- 
ated, together  -with  other  gods,  saints,  and  mortal  be- 
ings. Thus  the  Indra  of  the  second  Manwantara  is 
Yipaschit.;  of  the  third,  Susdnti;  of  the  fourth,  Sin ; 
of  the  fifth,  Yibhu;  of  the  sixth,  Manojaea;  and  the 


Indra  of  the  present  age  is  rarandara”  (Chambers,  s. 
v.).  In  works  of  art,  Indra  is  generally  represented  as 
riding  on  an  elephant.  In  paintings,  his  eyes  are  veil- 
ed. See  also  Hardwick,  Christ  and  other  Masters,  i,  178. 
(J.II.W.) 

Induction  (Lat.  inductio,  from  duco,  I lead)  is  a term 
in  ecclesiastical  law  for  the  act  by  which  a clergyman 
in  the  Church  of  England,  having  been  presented  to  a 
benefice  by  its  patron,  is  brought  in  to  the  possession  of 
the  freehold  of  the  church  and  glebe.  This  is  usually 
done  by  a mandate,  under  the  seal  of  the  bishop,  ad- 
dressed to  the  archdeacon,  who  either  in  person  inducts 
the  minister,  or  commissions  some  clergyman  in  his 
archdeaconry  to  perform  that  office.  The  archdeacon, 
or  his  deputy,  inducts  the  incumbent,  by  laying  his 
hand  on  the  key  of  the  church  as  it  lies  in  the  lock,  and 
using  this  form : “ I induct  you  into  the  real  and  actual 
possession  of  the  rectory  or  vicarage  of  M.,  with  all  its 
profits  and  appurtenances.”  The  church  door  is  then 
opened ; the  incumbent  enters,  and  generally  tolls  a bell, 
in  token  of  having  entered  on  his  spiritual  duties.  In 
Scotland  the  Presbytery  induct  the  minister, — Eden, 
Theol.  Diclionarg,  s.  v. 

Indulgence  (Lat.  indulgenthi),  in  English  history, 
is  the  title  applied  to  a proclamation  of  Charles  II  (A.t). 
1GG2),  and  especially  to  one  of  James  II,  April  4, 1G87, 
announcing  religious  toleration  to  all  classes  of  his  sub- 
jects, suspending  all  penal  laws  against  nonconformists, 
and  abolishing  religious  tests  as  qualifications  for  civil 
office.  The  king’s  object  was  simply  to  favor  Homan 
Catholics,  and  therefore  neither  the  English  Church  nor 
the  great  body  of  the  dissenters  received  the  illegal 
| stretch  of  prerogative  with  favor,  and  refused  to  believe 
that  a “ dispensing  power”  exercised  by  the  king  inde- 
pendently of  Parliament  could  be  of  any  lasting  advan- 
tage. Ilowe  and  Baxter  maintained  this  opinion.  The 
same  instrument  was  extended  to  Scotland,  and  divided 
the  Covenanters  into  two  parties.  At  first  the  king 
asked  toleration  for  Papists  only,  but  the  Scottish  Par- 
liament, usually  very  obsequious,  would  not  listen.  He 
finally  declared,  as  if  ropery  were  already  in  the  ascend- 
ant, that  he  would  never  use  “force  or  invincible  neces- 
sity against  any  man  on  account  of  his  Protestant  faith,” 
and  all  this  he  did  “by  his  sovereign  authority,  prerog- 
ative royal,  and  absolute  power.”— Eadie,  Ecclcs.  Diet. 
s.  v. ; Macaulay,  Hist,  of  Engl,  i,  213 ; iii,  44  sq. ; Skeats, 
Hist.  Free  Churches  of  England,  p.  77  sq. ; Stoughton, 
Eccl.  Hist,  of  Engl,  since  the  Restoration,  ii,  296,  et  al. 

Indulgences  (Lat.  indulgentice),  the  name  of  a pe- 
culiar institution  in  the  Homan  Church.  The  doctrine 
of  indulgence,  in  its  most  plausible  form,  is  stated  by  a 
Homanist  writer  as  follows:  “It  is  a releasing,  by  the 
power  of  the  keys  committed  to  the  Church,  the  debt 
of  temporal  punishment  which  may  remain  due  upon 
account  of  our  sins,  after  the  sins  themselves,  as  to  the 
guilt  and  ctcnial  punishment,  have  been  already  remit- 
ted by  repentance  and  confession”  ( Grounds  of  Catholic 
Doctrine , chap,  x,  quest.  1).  The  doctrine  and  practice 
of  indulgence  constitutes  the  very  centre  of  the  hier- 
archical theory  of  Romanism,  and  was,  probably  for  that 
very  reason,  the  first  object  of  attack  on  the  part  of  Lu- 
ther in  the  beginning  of  the  He  formation. 

I.  Origin  of  the  System. — The  early  Church  knew 
nothing  of  indulgences.  The  system  seems  to  have 
originated  in  that  of  penance  (q.  v.),  which,  in  the  hands 
of  the  episcopacy,  began  to  assume  a corrupt  form  in 
the  3d  century.  The  immediate  object  of  penance  was 
to  restore  an  offender,  not  to  communion  with  Cod,  but 
to  the  communion  of  the  Church.  "When  an  excom- 
municated person  sought  readmission,  the  bishop  as- 
signed him  a penitential  iliscipline  (q.  v.)  of  abstinence, 
mortification,  and  good  works,  after  which  he  was  taken 
back  into  fellowship  by  certain  regular  modes  of  pro- 
cedure. The  bishop  had  the  power  to  abridge  the  pe- 
riod of  probation,  or  to  mitigate  the  severity  of  the  pen- 
ance, and  in  this  power  lies  the  germ  of  the  doctrine  of 


INDULGENCES  564  INDULGENCES 


indulgence  (see  Canons  of  Council  of  Anc?/ra,  c.  v).  In 
course  of  time  penitential  discipline  came  to  be  applied, 
not  merely  to  excommunicated  persons,  but  to  all  delin- 
quents within  the  pale  of  the  Church;  and  penance 
came  at  last,  in  the  hands  of  the  schoolmen,  to  be  a sac- 
rament, with  its  systematic  theory  nicety  fitting  into 
the  hierarchical  system,  of  which,  in  fact,  it  became  the 
very  keystone.  Nothing  could  so  surely  augment  the 
power  of  the  priesthood  as  the  right  of  fixing  penalties 
for  sin,  and  making  terms  of  forgiveness.  “Just  as,  in 
early  times,  the  penances  of  the  excommunicated  were 
frequently  mitigated,  so,  in  the  course  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  an  analogous  mitigation  was  introduced  with  ref- 
erence to  the  works  of  penance  to  which  delinquents 
were  subjected.  Permission  was  given  to  exchange  a 
more  severe  for  a gentler  kind  of  penance.  Sometimes, 
in  place  of  doing  penance  himself,  the  party  was  allowed 
to  employ  a substitute.  And  sometimes,  in  fine,  in- 
stead of  the  actual  penance  prescribed,  some  service  con- 
ducive to  the  interest  of  the  Church  and  the  glory  of 
Cod  was  accepted.  This  last  was  the  real  basis  of  in- 
dulgence. Even  here,  however,  the  process  was  gradual. 
At  first  only  personal  acts  performed  for  the  Church  were 
admitted.  Then  pecuniary  gifts  became  more  and  more 
common,  until  at  last  the  matter  assumed  the  shape  of 
a mere  money  speculation.  Initiative!}'  the  abuse  grew 
np  in  practice.  Then  came  Scholasticism,  and  furnished 
it  with  a theoretical  substratum ; and  not  until  the  in- 
stitution had  thus  received  an  ecclesiastical  and  scien- 
tific basis  was  a method  of  practice  introduced  which 
overstepped  all  limits.  The  first  powerful  impulse  to 
the  introduction  of  indulgences,  property  so  called,  was 
given  by  the  Crusades  at  the  great  Synod  of  Clermont 
in  109(5.  Urban  II  there  promised  to  all  who  took  part 
in  the  Crusade,  which  he  proposed  as  a highly  merito- 
rious ecclesiastical  work,  plenary  indulgence  ( indulgen - 
tins  plenarias ) ; and  from  that  date  for  a period  of  two 
hundred  years,  this  grace  of  the  Church  continued  one 
of  the  most  powerfid  means  for  renewing  and  enlivening 
these  expeditions,  although  it  was  evident  to  unpreju- 
diced contemporaries  that  the  adventurers,  when  they 
crossed  the  ocean,  did  not  undergo  a change  of  charac- 
ter with  the  change  of  climate.  The  same  favor  was 
ere  long  extended  to  the  military  expeditions  set  on  foot 
against  the  heretics  in  Europe,  and  at  last,  hv  Boniface 
VIII,  in  1300,  to  the  year  of  the  Iloman  Jubilee.  Sub- 
sequently to  that  date,  several  monastic  orders  and  holy 
places  likewise  received  from  successive  popes  special 
privileges  in  the  matter  of  indulgence”  (Ullmann,  Re- 
formers before,  the.  Reformation,  i,  23(5). 

II.  A (‘holastic  Doctrine  of  Indulgence. — The  practice 
of  indulgence  had  been  going  on  for  some  time  when 
the  Scholastic  theologians  took  it  up,  and  formed  a 
speculative  theory  to  justify  it.  Three  great  men  con- 
tributed to  this  task:  Alexander  de  Hales  (q.  v.),  Al- 
bortus  .Magnus  (q.  v.),  and  Thomas  Aquinas  (q*  v.). 
Alexander  de  Hales  (f  A.t>.  1245)  laid  a firm  founda- 
tion for  the  theory  in  the  doctrine,  first  fairly  propound- 
ed by  him,  ot  the  Ireasnre  of  the  Church  ( thesaurus  ec- 
desia>).  It.  runs  as  follows " The  sufferings  and  death 
of  Christ  not  only  made  a sufficient  satisfaction  for  the 
sins  of  men,  hut  also  acquired  a superabundance  of 
merit.  This  supertliiou.s  merit  of  Christ  is  conjoined 
with  that  of  the  martyrs  and  saints,  which  is  similar  in 
kind,  though  smaller  in  degree,  for  they  likewise  per- 
formed more  than  the  divine  law  required  of  them.  The 
sum  of  these  supererogatory  merits  and  good  works  forms 
a vast  treasure,  which  is  disjoined  from  the  persons  who 
won  or  performed  them,  exists  objectively,  and,  having 
been  accumulated  by  the  Head  and  members  of  the 
Church,  and  intended  by  them  for  its  use,  lielongs  to 
the  Church,  and  is  necessarily  placed  under  the  admin- 
istration of  its  representatives,  especially  the  pope,  who 
is  supreme.  It  is  therefore  competent  for  the  pope,  ac- 
cording to  the  measure  of  his  insight  at  the  time,  to 
draw  from  this  treasure,  and  bestow  upon  those  who 
have  no  merit  of  their  own  such  supplies  of  it  as  they 


require.  Indulgences  and  remissions  are  made  from  the 
supererogatory  merits  of  Christ’s  members,  but  most  of 
all  from  the  superabundance  of  Christ’s  own,  the  two 
constituting  the  Church’s  spiritual  treasure.  The  ad- 
ministration of  this  treasure  does  not  pertain  to  all,  but 
to  those  only  who  occupy  Christ’s  place,  viz.  the  bish- 
ops” (Alex,  llales,  Summa,  iv,  qn.  xxiii,  art.  ii).  As  re- 
gards the  extent  of  indulgence,  Alexander  is  of  opinion 
that  it  reaches  even  to  the  souls  in  Purgatory,  under 
the  condition,  however,  that  there  shall  be  the  power  of 
the  keys  in  the  party  who  dispenses  it;  faith,  love,  and 
devotion  in  the  party  to  whom  it  is  dispensed;  and  a 
competent  reason  and  a proper  relation  between  the  two 
(l.  c.  par.  5).  He  does  not,  however,  suppose  that  in 
such  cases  indulgence  is  granted  in  the  way  of  judicial 
absolution  or  barter,  but  in  that  of  intercession  (“per 
modum  suffragii  sive  interpretationis”). 

Albert  the  Great  (f  1280),  adopting  the  opinions  of 
his  predecessor,  designates  indulgence  the  remission  of 
some  imposed  punishment  or  penance,  proceeding  from 
the  power  of  the  keys,  and  the  treasure  of  the  superflu- 
ous merits  of  the  perfect.  With  respect  to  the  efficacy 
of  indulgence,  Albert  proposes  to  steer  a middle  course 
between  two  extremes.  Some,  he  says,  imagine  that 
indulgence  has  no  efficacy  at  all,  and  is  merely  a pious 
fraud,  by  which  men  are  enticed  to  the  performance  of 
good  works,  such  as  pilgrimage  and  almsgiving.  These, 
however,  reduce  the  action  of  the  Chinch  to  child’s 
play,  and  fall  into  heresy.  Others,  carrying  the  con- 
trary opinion  further  than  is  necessary,  assert  that  an 
indidgenec  at  once  and  unconditionally  accomplishes  all 
that  is  expressed  in  it,  and  thus  make  the  divine  mercy 
diminish  the  fear  of  judgment.  The  true  medium  is 
that  indulgence  has  that  precise  amount  of  efficacy 
which  the  Church  assigns  to  it  (Alb.  Magnus,  Sentent. 
lib.  iv,  d.  xx,  art.  1G). 

Thomas  Aquinas  deduces  the  efficacy  of  indulgence 
directly  from  Christ.  The  history  of  the  adulteress 
shows,  he  says,  that  it  is  in  Christ’s  power  to  remit  the 
penalty  of  sin  without  satisfaction,  and  so  could  Paul, 
j and  so  also  can  the  pope,  whose  power  in  the  Church  is 
not  inferior  to  Paul’s.  Besides,  the  Church  general  is 
infallible,  and,  as  it  sanctions  and  practices  indulgence, 
indulgence  must  be  valid.  This,  Thomas  is  persuaded, 
all  admit,  because  there  would  be  impiety  in  representing 
any  act  of  the  Church  as  nugatory.  The  j-eason  of  its 
efficacy,  however,  lies  in  the  oneness  of  the  mystical  body , 
within  the  limits  of  which  there  arc  many  who,  as  re- 
spects works  of  penitence,  have  done  more  than  they 
were  under  obligation  to  do;  for  instance,  many  who 
have  patiently  endured  undeserved  sufferings  sufficient 
to  expiate  a great  amount  of  penalties.  In  fact,  so  vast 
is  the  sum  of  these  merits  that  it  greatly  exceeds  the 
measure  of  the  guilt  of  all  the  living,  especially  when 
augmented  hv  the  merit  of  Christ,  which,  although  op- 
erative in  the  sacraments,  is  not  in  its  operation  con- 
lineil  to  these,  but,  being  infinite,  extends  far  beyond 
them.  The  measure  of  the  efficacy  of  indulgence — this 
St.  Thomas  reckons  to  be  the  truth — is  determined  by 
the  measure  of  its  cause.  The  procuring  cause  of  the 
remission  of  punishment  in  indulgence  is,  however,  sole- 
ly the  plenitude  of  the  Church’s  merits,  not  the  piety, 
labors,  or  gifts  of  the  party  by  whom  it  is  obtained; 
and  therefore  the  quantity  of  the  indulgence  does  not 
need  to  correspond  with  any  of  these,  but  only  with  the 
merits  of  the  Church.  In  respect  to  the  party  who  ought 
to  dispense  indulgence,  St.  Thomas  asserts  that  no  mere 
priest  or  pastor,  but  only  the  bishop,  is  competent  for  the 
duty.  On  the  other  hand,  deacons  and  other  parties 
not  in  orders,  as,  for  example,  nuncios,  may  grant  indul- 
gence if,  either  in  an  ordinary  or  extraordinary'  way, 
they  have  been  intrusted  with  jurisdiction  foi  the  pur- 
pose. For  indulgence  does  not,  like  sacramental  acts, 
pertain  to  the  power  of  the  keys  inherent  in  the  priest- 
hood, but  to  that  power  of  the  keys  which  belongs  to 
jurisdiction  (Aquinas,  Supjilem.  Hi  partes  Summce  Theo- 
logice,  qu.  xxv-xxvii). 


INDULGENCES  5( 

III.  Opposition  to  Indulgences  within  the  Church  of 
Tfome.— Such  a doctrine  could  not  fail  to  offend  truly 
pious  souls  even  within  the  Church.  Long  before  the 
Keformation  the  whole  system  was  attacked  by  eminent 
doctors.  One  of  its  most  powerful  opponents  was  John 
of  Wesel  (q.  v.),  in  the  middle  of  the  15th  century.  A 
festival  of  jubilee,  with  vast  indulgences,  was  proclaimed 
by  pope  Clement  Vi  in  1450,  and  cardinal  Cusanus  vis- 
ited Erfurt  as  a preacher  of  indulgence.  This  brought 
the  subject  practically  before  Wesel’s  mind,  and  he  wrote 
a treatise  against  indulgences  (.  1 deer  sits  indnlgentias  : 
see  Walch,  Monnm.  Med.  sEvi , ii,  fasc.  i,  111-150).  For 
a full  account  of  it,  see  Ullmaim,  Reformers  before  the 
Reformation , i,  258  sq.  The  flagrant  abuses  connected 
with  the  sale  of  indulgences  began  to  cause  a reaction 
against  the  system  even  in  the  popidar  mind.  In  the 
loth  century,  in  particular,  the  disposal  of  them  had 
become  almost  a common  traffic ; and  a public  sale  of 
them  was  generally  preceded  by  some  specious  pretext ; 
for  instance,  the  reduction  of  the  Creeks  under  the  yoke 
of  the  Romish  Church,  a war  with  heretics,  or  a cru- 
sade against  the  Neapolitans,  etc.  Too  often  the  pre- 
tences for  selling  indulgences  wore  in  reality  bloody, 
idolatrous,  or  superstitious.  It  was  one  of  the  charges 
brought  against  John  XXIII  at  the  Council  of  Con- 
stance, in  1415,  that  he  empowered  his  legates  to  ab- 
solve penitents  from  all  sorts  of  crimes  upon  payment 
of  sums  proportioned  to  their  guilt.  When  such  indul- 
gences were  to  be  published,  the  disposal  of  them  was 
commonly  farmed  out ; for  the  papal  court  could  not 
always  wait  to  have  the  money  collected  and  conveyed 
from  every  country  of  Europe.  And  there  were  rich 
merchants  at  Genoa,  Milan,  Venice,  and  Augsburg  who 
purchased  the  indulgences  for  a particular  province,  and 
paid  to  the  papal  chancery  handsome  sums  for  them. 
Thus  both  parties  were  benefited.  The  chancery  came 
at  once  into  possession  of  large  sums  of  money,  and  the 
farmers  did  not  fail  of  a good  bargain.  They  were  care- 
ful to  employ  skilful  hawkers  of  the  indulgences,  persons 
whose  boldness  and  impudence  bore  due  proportion  to 
the  eloquence  with  which  they  imposed  upon  the  sim- 
ple people.  Yet,  that  this  species  of  traffic  might  have 
a religions  aspect,  the  pope  appointed  the  archbishops 
of  the  several  provinces  to  be  his  commissaries,  who  in 
his  name  announced  that  indulgences  were  to  be  sold, 
and  generally  selected  the  persons  to  hawk  them,  and 
for  this  service  shared  the  profits  with  the  merchants 
who  farmed  them.  These  papal  hawkers  enjoyed  great 
privileges,  and,  however  odious  to  the  civil  authorities, 
they  were  not  to  be  molested.  Complaints,  indeed, 
were  made  against  these  contributions,  levied  by  the 
popes  upon  all  Christian  Europe.  Kings  and  princes, 
clergy  and  laity,  bishops,  monasteries,  and  confessors, 
all  felt  themselves  aggrieved  by  them ; the  kings,  that 
their  countries  were  impoverished,  under  the  pretext 
of  crusades  that  were  never  undertaken,  and  of  wars 
against  heretics  and  Turks;  and  the  bishops,  that  their 
letters  of  indulgence  were  rendered  inefficient,  and  the 
people  released  from  ecclesiastical  discipline.  But  at 
Kome  all  were  deaf  to  these  complaints ; and  it  was  not 
till  the  revolution  produced  by  Luther  that  unhappy 
Europe  obtained  the  desired  relief  (Moslieim,  Eccles. 
Hist.  cent,  iii,  sec.  i,  chap.  i).  Leo  X,  in  order  to  carry 
on  the  expensive  structure  of  St.  Peter’s  Church  at 
Kome,  published  indulgences,  with  a plenary  remission 
to  all  such  as  should  contribute  towards  erecting  that 
magnificent  fabric.  The  right  of  promulgating  these 
indulgences  in  Germany,  together  with  a share  in  the 
profits  arising  from  the  sale  of  them,  was  granted  to  Al- 
bert, elector  of  Mentz  and  archbishop  of  Magdeburg, 
who  selected  as  his  chief  agent  for  retailing  them  in 
Saxony  John  Tetzel,  a Dominican  friar,  of  licentious 
morals,  but  of  an  active  and  enterprising  spirit,  and  re- 
markable for  his  noisy  and  popular  eloquence.  Assisted 
by  the  monks  of  his  order,  he  executed  the  commission 
with  great  zeal  and  success,  but  with  no  less  indecency, 
boasting  that  he  had  saved  more  souls  from  hell  by  his 


5 INDULGENCES 

indulgences  than  St.  Peter  had  converted  by  his  preach- 
ing. lie  assured  the  purchasers  of  them  that  their 
crimes, however  enormous,  would  be  forgiven;  that  the 
efficacy  of  indulgences  was  so  great  that  the  most  hei- 
nous sins,  even  if  one  should  violate  (which  was  impos- 
sible) the  mother  of  God,  would  be  remitted  and  expia- 
ted by  them,  and  the  person  freed  -both  from  punish- 
ment and  guilt ; and  that  this  was  the  unspeakable  gift 
of  God,  in  order  to  reconcile  men  to  himself.  In  the 
usual  form  of  absolution,  written  by  his  own  hand,  he 
said : “ May  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  have  mercy  upon 
thee,  and  absolve  thee  by  the  merits  of  his  most  holy 
passion.  And  1,  by  bis  authority,  that  of  his  apostles 
Peter  and  Paul,  and  of  the  most  holy  pope,  granted  and 
committed  to  me  in  these  parts,  do  absolve  tlice,  first, 
from  all  ecclesiastical  censures,  in  whatever  manner 
they  have  been  incurred;  then  from  all  thy  sins,  trans- 
gressions, and  excesses,  how  enormous  soever  they  may 
be : even  from  such  as  are  reserved  for  the  cognizance  of 
the  holy  see,  and  as  far  as  the  keys  of  the  holy  Church 
extend.  I remit  to  thee  all  punishment  which  thou  de- 
servest  in  Purgatory  on  their  account;  and  I restore  thee 
to  the  holy  sacraments  of  the  Church,  to  the  unity  of  the 
faithful,  and  to  that  innocence  and  purity  which  thou 
possessedst  at  baptism:  so  that  when  thou  diest  the 
gates  of  punishment  shall  be  shut,  and  the  gates  of  the 
Paradise  of  delights  shall  be  opened ; and  if  thou  shalt 
not  die  at  present,  this  grace  shall  remain  in  full  force 
when  thou  art  at  the  point  of  death.  In  the  name  of 
the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost.”  The  terms 
in  which  the  retailers  of  indulgences  described  their 
benefits,  and  the  necessity  of  purchasing  them,  were  so 
extravagant  that  they  appear  almost  incredible.  If 
any  man,  said  they,  purchase  letters  of  indulgence,  his 
soul  may  rest  secure  with  respect  to  its  salvation.  The 
souls  confined  in  Purgatory,  for  whose  redemption  indul- 
gences are  purchased,  as  soon  as  the  money  tinkles  in 
the  chest,  instantly  escape  from  that  place  of  torment, 
and  ascend  into  heaven.  That  the  cross  erected  by  the 
preachers  of  indulgences  was  equally  efficacious  with 
the  cross  of  Christ  itself.  “ Lo,”  said  they,  “ the  heav- 
ens are  open  : if  you  enter  not  now,  when  will  you  enter  ? 
For  twelve  pence  you  may  redeem  the  soul  of  your  fa- 
ther out  of  Purgatory;  and  are  you  so  ungrateful  that 
you  will  not  rescue  the  soul  of  your  parent  from  tor- 
ment? If  you  had  but  one  coat,  you  ought  to  strip 
yourself  instantly  and  sell  it,  in  order  to  purchase  such 
benefit.”  It  was  these  abuses,  as  much  as  any  other 
one  cause,  which  led  to  the  Lutheran  Keformation,  and 
it  was  against  these  that  Luther  first  directed  his  at- 
tacks. See  Luther;  Keformation. 

III.  Present  Doctrine  ami  Practice  of  Indulgence.— 
The  following  extracts  show  what  has  been,  since  the 
Council  of  Trent,  and  is  now,  the  Romish  doctrine  of  in- 
dulgence. The  Council  declared  that  “ as  the  power  of 
granting  indulgences  was  given  by  Christ  to  the  Church, 
and  she  has  exercised  it  in  the  most  ancient  times,  this 
holy  synod  teaches  and  commands  that  the  use  of  them, 
as  being  greatly  salutary  to  the  Christian  people,  and 
approved  by  the  authority  of  councils,  shall  be  retained; 
and  she  anathematizes  those  who  say  they  are  useless, 
or  deny  to  the  Church  the  power  of  granting  them ; but 
in  this  grant  the  synod  wishes  that  moderation,  agreea- 
bly to  the  ancient  and  approved  practice  of  the  Church, 
be  exercised,  lest  by  too  great  facility  ecclesiastical  dis- 
cipline be  weakened”  (Cone.  Trul.  Sess.  xxv,  lie  Indulg.). 
Pope  Leo  X,  in  his  bull  De  Indulgentiis , whose  object  he 
states  to  be  “that  no  one  in  future  may  allege  ignorance 
of  the  doctrine  of  the  Roman  Church  respecting  indul- 
gences and  their  efficacy,”  declares  “that  the  Roman 
pontiff,  vicar  of  Christ  on  earth,  can,  for  reasonable 
causes,  by  the  powers  of  the  keys,  grant  to  the  faithful, 
whether  in  this  life  or  in  Purgatory,  indulgences,  out  of 
the  superabundance  of  the  merits  of  Christ,  and  of  the 
saints  (expressly  called  a treasure) ; and  that  those  who 
have  truly  obtained  these  indulgences  are  released  from 
so  much  of  the  temporal  punishment  due  for  their  act- 


INDULGENCES  566  INDULGENCES 


nal  sins  to  the  divine  justice  as  is  equivalent  to  the  in- 
dulgence granted  and  obtained"  (Bulla  Leon.X,  adv.  La- 
ther). Clement  VI,  in  the  bull  Uniyenitus,  explains  this 
matter  more  fully:  “As  a single  drop  of  Christ’s  blood 
would  have  sufficed  for  the  redemption  of  the  whole  hu- 
man race,”  so  the  rest  was  not  lost,  but  “was  a treasure 
which  he  acquired  in  the  militant  Church,  to  be  used 
for  the  benefit  of  his  sons;  which  treasure  he  would  not 
suffer  to  be  hid  in  a napkin,  or  buried  in  the  ground,  but 
committed  it  to  be  dispensed  by  St.  Peter  and  his  suc- 
cessors, his  own  vicars  upon  earth,  for  proper  and  rea- 
sonable causes,  for  the  total  or  partial  remission  of  the 
temporal  punishment  due  to  sin;  and  for  an  augmenta- 
tion of  his  treasure,  the  merits  of  the  blessed  mother  ol' 
God,  and  of  all  the  elect,  who  are  known  to  come  in  aid.” 
The  reasonable  causes , on  account  of  which  indulgences 
are  given,  are,  where  “the  cause  be  pious,  that  is,  not  a 
work  which  is  merely  temporal,  or  vain,  or  in  no  respect 
appertaining  to  the  divine  glory,  but  for  any  work  what- 
soever which  tends  to  the  honor  of  God  or  the  service 
of  the  Church,  an  indulgence  will  be  valid.”  We  see,  oc- 
casionally, thq  very  greatest  indulgences  given  for  the 
very  lightest  causes;  as  when  a plenary  indulgence  is 
granted  to  all  who  stand  before  the  gates  of  St.  Peter, 
whilst  the  pope  gives  the  solemn  blessing  to  the  people 
on  Easter  day;  for  “ indulgences  do  not  depend,  for  their 
efficacy,  on  consideration  of  the  work  enjoined,  but  on 
the  infinite  treasure  of  the  merits  of  Christ  and  the 
saints,  which  is  a consideration  surpassing  and  tran-  1 
scending  everything  that  is  granted  by  an  indulgence.” 
In  some  cases  “ the  work  enjoined  must  not  only  be  pi- 
ous and  useful,  but  bear  a certain  proportion  with  the 
indulgence;  that  is,  the  work  enjoined  must  tend  to  an 
end  more  pleasing  in  the  sight  of  God  than  the  satisfac- 
tion remitted,”  “although  it  is  not  necessary  that  it  be 
in  itself  very  meritorious,  or  satisfactory,  or  difficult,  and 
laborious  (though  these  things  ought  to  be  regarded 
too),  but  that  it  be  a means,  apt  and  useful,  towards  ob- 
taining the  end  for  which  the  indulgence  is  granted.” 
So  “the  large  resort  of  people,”  before  the  gates  of  St. 
Peter,  when  the  pope  gives  his  solemn  blessing,  “is  a 
means,  apt  and  useful,  to  set  forth  faith  respecting  the 
head  of  the  Church,  and  to  the  honor  of  the  apostolic 
sec,  which  is  the  end  of  the  indulgence”  (Bellarmine,  J)e 
Jiululgentiis,  lib,  i,  can.  12).  The  first  General  Lateran 
Council  granted  “remission  of  sin  to  whoever  shall  go 
to  Jerusalem,  and  effectually  help  to  oppose  the  inti- 
dels”  (can.  xi).  The  third  and  fourth  Lateran  Councils 
granted  the  same  indulgence  to  those  who  set  them- 
selves to  destroy  heretics,  or  who  shall  take  up  arms 
against  them  (see  Labbe,  x,  1523).  Boniface  VIII  grant- 
ed not  only  a full  and  larger,  but  the  most  full  pardon 
of  all  sins  to  all  that  visit  llomc  the  first  year  in  every 
century.  Clement  V decreed  that  they  who  should,  at 
the  Jubilee,  visit  such  and  such  churches,  should  obtain 
“a  most  full  remission  of  all  their  sins;”  and  he  not  only 
granted  a “plenary  absolution  of  all  sins  to  all  who  died 
on  the  road  to  Borne,”  but  “also  commanded  the  angels 
of  Paradise  to  carry  the  soul  direct  to  heaven.”  “Sin- 
cere repentance,"  we  are  told,  “ is  always  enjoined  or 
implied  in  the  grant  of  an  indulgence,  and  is  indispen- 
sably necessary  for  every  grace”  (Milner,  End  of  Con - 
troversy, , p.  304).  But  as  the  dead  are  removed  from 
the  possibility,  so  are  they  from  the  necessity  of  repent- 
ance; “as  the  pope,”  says  Bellarmine,  “applies  the  sat- 
isfactions of  Christ  and  the  saints  to  the  dead,  by  means 
of  works  enjoined  on  the  living,  they  are  applied,  not  in 
the  way  ol  judicial  absolution,  but  in  the  way  of  pay- 
ment (‘  per  mod  urn  solutionis’).  For  as  when  a person 
gives  alms,  or  fasts,  or  makes  a pilgrimage  on  account 
of  the  dead,  the  effect  is,  not  that  he  obtains  absolution 
for  them  from  their  liability  to  punishment,  but  he  pre- 
sents to  God  that  particular  satisfaction  for  them,  in  or- 
der that  God,  on  receiving  it,  may  liberate  the  dead  from 
the  debt  of  punishment  which*  they  had  to  pay.  In 
like  manner,  the  pope  does  not  absolve  the  deceased,  but 
oilers  to  God,  out  of  the  measure  of  satisfaction,  as  much 


as  is  necessary  to  free  them”  (Ik).  Their  object  is  “ to 
afford  succor  to  such  as  have  departed  real  penitents  in 
the  love  of  God,  yet  before  they  had  duly  satisfied,  by 
fruits  worthy  of  penance,  for  sins  of  commission  and 
omission,  and  are  now  purifying  in  the  fire  of  Purgatory, 
that  an  entrance  may  be  opened  for  them  into  that  coun- 
try where  nothing  defiled  is  admitted”  (Bull  Leo  XII). 
“We  have  resolved,”  says  pope  Leo  XII,  in  his  bull  of 
indiction  for  the  universal  jubilee  in  1824,  “ in  virtue  of 
the  authority  given  us  by  heaven,  fully  to  unlock  that 
sacred  treasure,  composed  of  the  merits,  sufferings,  and 
virtues  of  Christ  our  Lord,  and  of  his  Virgin  Mother, 
and  of  all  the  saints  which  the  author  of  human  sal- 
vation has  intrusted  to  our  dispensation.  During  this 
year  of  the  jubilee,  we  mercifully  give  and  grant,  in  the 
Lord,  a plenary  indulgence,  remission,  and  pardon  of  all 
their  sins  to  all  the  faithful  of  Christ,  truly  penitent,  and 
confessing  their  sins,  and  receiving  the  holy  commun- 
ion, who  shall  visit  the  churches  of  blessed  Peter  and 
Paul,”  etc.  “ We  offer  you,”  says  Ganganclli,  in  his  bull 
De  I udulgentiis,  “ a share  of  all  the  riches  of  divine  mer- 
cy which  have  been  intrusted  to  us,  and  chiefly  those 
which  have  their  origin  in  the  blood  of  Christ.  We 
will  then  open  to  you  all  the  gates  of  the  rich  reservoir 
of  atonement,  derived  from  the  merits  of  the  Mother  of 
God,  the  holy  apostles,  the  blood  of  the  martyrs,  and  the 
good  works  of  all  the  saints.  We  invite  you,  then,  to 
drink  of  this  overflowing  stream  of  indulgence,  to  en- 
[ rich  yourselves  in  the  inexhaustible  treasures  of  the 
Church,  according  to  the  custom  of  our  ancestors.  Do 
not,  then,  let  slip  the  present  occasion,  this  favorable 
time,  these  salutary  days,  employing  them  to  appease 
the  justice  of  God,  and  obtain  your  pardon.”  “ The  tem- 
poral punishment  due  to  sin,  by  the  decree  of  God,  when 
its  guilt  and  eternal  punishment  are  remitted,  may  con-, 
sist  either  of  evil  in  this  life,  or  of  temporal  suffering  in 
the  next,  which  temporal  suffering  in  the  next  life  is 
called  purgatory;  that  the  Church  has  received  power 
from  God  to  remit  both  of  these  inflictions,  and  this  re- 
mission is  called  an  indulgence”  (Butler’s  Boole  of  the 
Rom.  Cuth.  Ch.  p.  110).  “ It  is  the  received  doctrine  of 
the  Church  that  an  indulgence,  when  truly  gained,  is 
not  barely  a relaxation  of  the  canonical  penance  enjoin- 
ed by  the  Church,  but  also  an  actual  remission  by  God 
himself  of  the  whole  or  part  of  the  temporal  punish- 
ment due  to  it  in  his  sight”  (Milner,  End  of  Controversy, 
p.  305  sq.). 

As  to  the  present  practice  of  indulgences,  it  subsists, 
with  all  its  immoral  tendencies,  in  full  force  to  this 
day.  It  is  true,  however,  that  the  abuses  connected 
with  the  sale  of  indulgences  are  not  so  flagrant  as  in 
former  times,  especially  in  those  countries  where  the 
Boman  Church  is  destitute  of  political  power.  Where 
it  has,  the  system  is  almost  as  bad  as  ever.  It  is  said 
that,  as  lately  as  the  year  1800,  a Spanish  vessel  was 
captured  near  the  coast  of  South  America,  freighted 
(among  other  things)  with  numerous  bales  of  indul- 
gences for  various  sins,  the  price  of  which,  varying  from 
half  a dollar  to  seven  dollars,  was  marked  upon  each. 
They  had  been  bought  in  Spain,  and  were  intended  for 
sale  in  South  America.  Seymour  tells  ns  as  follows : 
“ This  inscription  is  placed  in  that  part  of  the  Church 
which  is  of  all  the  most  public.  It  is  placed  over  the 
holy  water,  to  which  all  persons  must  resort,  on  entering 
the  Church,  before  partaking  of  any  of  its  services.  It 
is  as  follows:  ‘ Indulgence . — The  image  of  the  most  holy 
Mary,  which  stands  on  the  high  altar,  spoke  to  the  holy 
pope  Gregory,  saving  to  him,  Why  do  you  no  longer 
salute  me,  in  passing,  with  the  accustomed  salutation  ? 
The  saint  asked  pardon,  and  granted  to  those  who  cele- 
brate mass  at  that  altar  the  deliverance  of  a soul  from 
Purgatory,  that  is,  the  special  soul  for  which  they  cele- 
brate the  mass.’  There  is  nothing  more  frequently  re- 
marked by  Protestants,  on  entering  the  churches  of  Borne, 
than  the  constant  recurrence  of  the  words  1 indulgentia 
jdenaria,'  a plenary  indulgence  attached  to  the  masse3 
offered  there;  and  this  is  tantamount  to  the  emancipa- 


INDULGENCES 


5G7 


INDULGENCES 


tion  of  any  soul  from  Purgatory,  through  a mass  offered 
at  that  altar.  Instead  of  these  words,  however,  the  same 
thing  is  more  plainly  expressed  in  some  churches.  In 
the  church  Santa  Maria  della  Pace,  so  celebrated  lbr 
the  magnificent  fresco  of  the  Sibyls  by  Kapliael,  there  is 
over  one  of  the  altars  the  following  inscription  : ‘ Ogni 
messu  cclebrata  in  quest'  altare  libera  un  animod  al'  pur- 
gatorio' — Every  mass  celebrated  at  this  altar  frees  a soul 
from  Purgatory.  In  some  churches  this  privilege  ex- 
tends throughout  the  year,  but  in  others  it  is  limited  to 
those  masses  which  are  offered  on  particular  days.  In 
the  church  of  Sta.  Croce  di  Gerusalemme  this  privilege 
is  connected  in  an  especial  manner  with  the  fourth  Sun- 
day in  Lent.  And  this  is  notified  by  a public  notice  post- 
ed in  the  church  close  to  the  altar,  setting  forth  that  a 
mass  celebrated  there  on  that  day  releases  a soul  from 
Purgatory”  (Seymour,  Evenings  at  Rome). 

Indulgences  are  now  granted  in  the  Romish  Church 
on  a very  ample  scale,  especially  to  all  contributors  to 
the  erection  of  churches,  and  to  the  funds  of  the  Propa- 
ganda and  other  missionary  societies,  etc.  In  fact,  al- 
most any  act  of  piety  (so-called)  entitles  one  to  an  in- 
dulgence : as,  for  instance,  the  worship  of  relics ; the  vis- 
iting of  churches  or  special  altars;  participation  in  di- 
vine worship  on  great  festivals,  such  as  inauguration  of 
churches,  and,  especially,  taking  part  in  pilgrimages. 
Indulgences  which  apply  either  to  the  whole  Church 
are  called  general  ( inilulg . generalis),  while  those  that 
are  confined  to  particular  localities,  as  a bishopric,  etc., 
are  called  particular  ( indulg . particulars).  The  most 
general  indulgence  is  that  of  the  Roman  Catholic  year 
of  Jubilee  (q.  v.).  The  general  indulgence  is  always 
made  out  by.  the  pope  himself,  while  the  particular  in- 
dulgences, either  pltnariee  or  minus  jilena>,  are  often 
among  the  privileges  of  divers  localities,  cither  for  spe- 
cial occasions  and  various  lengths  of  time,  or  occasion- 
ally forever.  The  papal  indulgence  is  to  be  proclaimed 
by  the  bishop  and  two  canons  of  the  diocese  receiving 
it.  “Indulgences  are  divided  into  plenary  and  non-ple- 
nary, or  partial,  temporary,  indefnite,  local,  perpetual, 
reed,  and  personal.  1.  A plenary  indulgence  is  that  by 
which  is  obtained  a remission  of  all  the  temporal  pun- 
ishment due  to  sin,  either  in  this  life  or  in  the  next.  2. 
A non-plenary  or  partial  indulgence  is  that  which  re- 
mits only  a part  of  the  temporal  punishment  due  to  sin  : 
sucli  are  indulgences  for  a given  number  of  days,  weeks, 
or  years.  This  sort  of  indulgence  remits  so  many  days, 
weeks,  or  years  of  penance,  which  ought  to  be  observed 
agreeably  to  the  ancient  canons  of  the  Church,  for  the 
sins  which  we  have  committed.  3.  Temporary  indul- 
gences are  those  which  are  granted  for  a certain  speci- 
fied time,  as  for  seven  or  more  years.  4.  Indefnite  in- 
dulgences are  those  which  are  granted  without  any 
limitation  of  time.  5.  Perpetual  indulgences  are  those 
granted  forever,  and  which  do  not  require  to  be  re- 
newed after  a given  number  of  years.  6.  A general  in- 
dulgence is  one  granted  by  the  pope  to  all  the  faithful 
throughout  the  world.  7.  A local  indulgence  is  attach- 
ed to  certain  churches,  chapels,  or  other  places;  it  is 
gained  by  actually  visiting  such  church  or  other  build- 
ing or  place,  and  by  observing  scrupulously  all  the  con- 
ditions required  by  the  bull  granting  such  indulgence. 
8.  A real  indulgence  is  attached  to  certain  movable 
things,  as  rosaries,  medals,  etc.,  and  is  granted  to  those 
who  actually  wear  these  articles  with  devotion ; should 
the  fashion  of  them  cease,  so  that  they  cease  to  be  deem- 
ed the  same  articles,  the  indulgence  ceases.  So  long, 
however,  as  such  articles  continue,  and  are  reputed  to 
be  the  same,  the  indulgence  continues  in  force,  notwith- 
standing any  accidental  alteration  which  may  be  made 
in  them,  as  the  affixing  of  a new  string  or  ribbon  to  a 
rosary.  9.  A personal  indulgence  is  one  which  is  grant- 
ed to  certain  particular  persons,  or  to  several  persons  in 
common,  as  to  a confraternity  or  brotherhood.  These 
privileged  persons  may  gain  such  indulgences  wherever 
they  may  happen  to  be,  whether  they  are  in  health,  in 
sickness,  or  at  the  point  of  death.  10.  Other  indul- 


gences are  termed  enjoined  penances,  panitentice  injunctee. 
15y  them  is  conferred  the  remission  of  so  much  of  the 
punishment  which  is  due  to  sins  at  the  judgment  of 
God  as  the  sinner  would  have,  to  pay  by  canonical  pen- 
ances, or  by  penances  enjoined  in  all  their  rigor  by  the 
priest.  An  indulgence  produces  its  effect  at  the  very 
moment  when  all  the  works  prescribed  in  order  to  ob- 
tain it  are  performed.  (Richard  et  Giraud , Biblioth'eque 
Sacree,  xiii,  3GG  sq.)  The  scales  of  payment  are  pecul- 
iar, being  made  to  meet  a variety  of  cases,  and  they  are 
so  lenient  that  the  paj'meut  of  them  can  form  no  bar 
against  the  subsequent  commission  of  the  crime  for 
which  an  indulgence  has  already  been  received.” 

IV.  The  “ Congregation  of  Indulgences"  (Congregatio 
Cardinalium  de  indulgentiis  et  Sacris  reliquiis)  assists  the 
pope  in  managing  the  department  of  indulgences.  It  is 
one  of  the  functions  of  this  congregation  to  investigate 
the  grounds  of  all  applications  on  the  part  of  bishops, 
dioceses,  churches,  etc.,  for  indulgences,  and  to  report 
thereon  to  the  pope.  »See  Congregation,  vol.  ii,  p.  475. 

V.  Criticism  of  the  Romish  Doctrine  of  Indulgence. — We 
cannot  attempt  to  give  in  this  place  a full  refutation  of 
the  Romish  doctrine  of  indulgences,  nor  is  it  necessary. 
In  her  22d  Article,  the  Church  of  England  formally  con- 
demns the  Romish  doctrine  of  indulgence  as  well  as 
Purgatory  (q.  v.).  The  article  was  framed  (1553)  be- 
fore the  Council  of  Trent,  which  endeavored  to  remecty 
the  worst  abuses  arising  from  the  practice  of  such  a 
doctrine,  but  which  nevertheless  virtually  sanctioned 
the  principles  naturally  involved  in  the  system.  In  the 
Parker  MS.  of  1562  (the  25th  session  of  the  Council  of 
Trent,  which  was  held  Dec.  3 and  4,  15G3)  appears  the 
change  of  terms  from  Scholasticorvm  doctrina  to  lJoctri- 
na  Romanensium  (comp.  I’usey’s  Eirenicon,  part  i,  p.  207 ; 
Iilunt,  Ilist.  of  the  Reformation,  A.D.  1514-1547,  p.  444, 
465).  The  English  theologians  held  “ (1)  that  tem- 
poral pain,  the  fruit  of  sin,  is  in  its  nature  remedial  and 
disciplinary,  both  to  the  sinner,  and  to  others  that  they 
may  see  and  fear;  and  (2)  that  as  such  it  is  not  remis- 
sible by  any  sacrament  or  ordinance  intrusted  to  the 
Clmrcli.”  The  former  proposition  they  support  by  Jcr. 
ii,  1 9 ; Isa.  iii,  9 ; by  the  examples  of  Moses  and  David ; 
Numb,  xx,  12;  Dent,  i,  37;  2 Sam.  xii,  14.  The  fol- 
lowing quotations  cover,  however,  more  nearly  all  the 
points:  “Viewed  even  in  its  purest  form,  as  stated  by 
the  me>st  eminent  doctors,  and  sanctioned  by  papal  bulls, 
the  doctrine  of  indulgence  not  only  introduces  a contra- 
diction into  the  Catholic  system,  in  respect  that  works 
of  satisfaction,  which  were  originally  an  integral  part 
of  the  sacrament  of  penitence,  are  entirely  disconnected 
with  it,  and  viewed  as  a mere  matter  of  ecclesiastical  ju- 
risdiction, but  it  has  this  further  radical  defect  pervading 
all  its  constituent  parts,  that  me>ral  anel  religious  things, 
which  can  only  be  taken  as  spiritual  magnitudes,  are 
considered  as  material  ones,  quality  being  treated  wholly 
as  quantity,  and,  consequently,  a standard  of  external 
computation  and  a sort  of  religious  arithmetic  applied, 
which  involves  contradiction.  Even  in  order  to  estab- 
lish the  superabundance  of  the  merit  of  Christ,  it  was 
affirmed  that  though  a single  drop  of  his  blood  would 
have  sufficed  for  a universal  atonement,  yet  the  Saviour 
had  shed  so  much,  as  if  it  were  not  the  divine  sacrifice 
of  love  on  the  part  of  the  Son  of  God  and  man,  and  his 
atoning  death  in  general,  but  his  several  outward  suffer- 
ings and  their  quantity  in  which  its  value  and  impor- 
tance consisted.  In  like  manner,  on  the  part  of  the 
saints,  it  was  not  their  peculiar  and  more  exalted  moral 
and  religious  character,  but  their  several  works,  and  es- 
pecially the  volume  rather  than  the  worth  of  these, 
which  was  taken  into  account ; and  the  whole  was  han- 
dled as  something  totally  disconnected  with  their  per- 
sons, as  an  ol  jeetive  fund,  a sum  of  ready  money  in  tho 
Church’s  hands.  According  to  the  same  category,  the 
imputation  of  the  merits  of  Christ  and  the  saints  was 
described  as  a purely  external  transference  of  a portion 
of  that  sum  to  one  who  needed  it.  For,  although  a 
penitent  frame  of  mind  was  required  of  the  sinner,  still 


INDULGENCES  568  INDUSTRIAL  SCHOOLS 


it  was  not  for  the  sake , nor  according  to  the.  measure  of 
that , that  the  merit  of  Christ  and  the  saints  was  trans- 
ferred to  him,  but  solely  for  the  sake  of  some  service 
performed  by  him  for  the  Church,  and  this  performance, 
again,  is  quite  an  external  and  isolated  work.  At  the 
same  time,  as  respects  the  merits  of  the  saints,  the  the- 
ory of  indulgence  rests  on  the  supposition  that  a man, 
who  is  still  human,  although  a saint,  may  not  only  pos- 
sess a sufficiency  of  merit  to  answer  his  own  need  before 
God,  but  may  likewise  do  more  than  the  divine  law  de- 
mands of  him,  and  thus  acquire  a surplus  of  merit  for 
the  use  of  others.  Even  this  is  a monstrous  supposi- 
tion, but  still  more  monstrous  perhaps  is  another,  which 
invades  the  religious  domain  and  the  glory  of  God.  In 
point  of  fact,  the  doctrine  and  practice  of  indulgences 
gives  the  Church  a position  as  an  absolutely  unerring 
and  omniscient  judicial  power.  It  identities  the  tribu- 
nal of  the  Church  with  that  of  God,  and  the  tribunal  of 
the  pope  with  that  of  the  Church,  thereby  indirectly 
identifying  the  pope's  with  God's,  so  that  the  pope  is 
raised  to  a position,  in  virtue  of  which,  as  the  visible 
head  of  the  mystical  body  of  Christ,  and  as  the  dis- 
penser of  all  penalties  and  graces,  he  decides  the  high- 
est questions  involving  the  salvation  of  the  living  and 
the  dead,  according  to  his  mere  pleasure.  Granting, 
however,  that  the  whole  doctrine  were  well  founded, 
the  position  assigned  to  the  pope  would  be  one  ele- 
vated far  above  the  reach  of  fancy,  and  could  be  desig- 
nated only  as  that  of  a terrestrial  god.  What  an  infinite 
amount  of  obligation  would  it  impose  upon  the  papacy, 
and  with  what  conscientiousness  sharpened  to  the  ut- 
most ought  the  popes,  if  they  were  bold  enough  to  be- 
lieve that  such  plenitude  of  power  had  actually  been 
lodged  in  the  hands  of  any  child  of  the  dust,  to  have 
dispensed  the  lofty  blessings  committed  to  their  trust ! 
Ilow  carefidly  ought  they  to  have  guarded  them  from 
perversion  and  debasement ! And  yet  what  do  we  see  ? 
Abuse  upon  abuse,  and  profanation  upon  profanation,  in 
an  ascending  scale,  for  more  than  two  centuries,  until 
at  last  moral  indignation  bursts  like  a tempest  upon 
their  impiety”  (Ullmann,  Reformers  before  the  Refor- 
mation, i,  24(5).  “Either  the  pope  has  the  power  of 
bringing  souls  out  of  Purgatory,  or  he  has  not.  If  he 
has  not,  the  question  is  decided.  If  he  lias,  what  cru- 
elty, then,  for  him  to  leave  there  whole  millions  of  souls 
whom  he  might  by  a word  bring  out  of  it!  Without 
going  so  far,  why  this  strange  inequality  in  the  distri- 
bution of  a treasure  which  is  deemed  inexhaustible? 
Why  will  a pater  and  an  are  in  my  parish  church  avail 
only  for  five  or  six  days’  indulgence,  when  they  avail 
for  forty  days  in  another  church,  before  another  Madon- 
na or  another  cross?  Why  is  the  performance  of  the 
works  paid,  in  such  or  such  a congregation,  with  a plen- 
ary indulgence,  and  in  this  or  that  other  with  a mere 
indulgence  for  a time?  Why- — but  we  should  never 
end  with  the  contradictions  with  which  this  matter  is 
beset.  Yet  let  us  give  one— just  one  more.  If  plenary 
indulgence  be  not  merely  a lure,  how  conies  it  that  masses 
continue  to  be  said  for  the  souls  of  those  who  received 
it  when  dying?  Why  that  solemn  de profundis  repeat- 
ed at  Rome  during  the  whole  reign  of  a pope  on  the 
anniversary  of  the  death  of  his  predecessor?  This  is 
what  Luther  said  in  liis  theses,  and  the  objection  is  not 
the  less  embarrassing  for  being  old.  The  only  means 
of  getting  out  of  the  difficulty  would  be  to  accept  the 
consequences  of  the  system.  You  have  only  to  regard 
as  well  and  duly  entered  into  heaven  all  who  left  this 
world  with  that  infallible  passport,  and  to  refuse,  there- 
fore, to  say  a mass  for  them.  And  why  is  this  not 
done  ? . We  have  no  need  to  explain.  Between  a mere 
act  of  inconsistency  added  to  so  many  others  and  the 
drying  up  of  the  very  best  source  of  her  revenues,  could 
Rome  ever  hesitate?  But  if  there  be  ground  to  ask,  on 
the  one  hand,  why  the  \ >opes  and  the  bishops  have  not, 
at  least,  the  charity  to  grant  everywhere,  and  to  all,  as 
many  indulgences  as  they  have  a right  to  dispense,  j 
no  less  reason  have  we  to  be  astonished  at  the  low  price,  I 


they  put  upon  them,  and  the  incredible  facilities  offered 
to  such  as  wish  to  acquire  them.  See,  for  instance,  the 
statutes  of  the  brotherhood  (confrerie)  well  known  un- 
der the  name  of  the  Most  Holy  and  Immaculate  Heart  of 
Mary.  By  a brief  of  1838,  plenary  indulgence  is  ac- 
corded to  those  who  shall  worthily  confess  on  the  day 
of  their  reception  into  the  brotherhood;  which  is  as 
much  as  saying  to  people,  ‘ Come  in  among  us,  and  all 
your  previous  sins  will  be  wiped  out.’  Plenary  indul- 
gence, moreover,  to  such  as  shall  confess  themselves, 
and  communicate  at  certain  epochs  of  the  year,  and 
these  are  ten  in  number.  Further,  indulgence  of  five 
hundred  days  to  whosoever  shall  devoutly  be  present  at 
the  mass  of  Saturday,  and  shall  pray  for  the  conversion 
of  sinners.  Though  we  should  believe  in  indulgences, 
it  strikes  us  that  we  could  not  but  feel  some  scruples 
at  seeing  them  lavished  away  in  this  manner.  For  a 
mass  that  shall  have  cost  you  half  an  hour,  to  be  ex- 
empted from  Purgatory  for  near  a year  and  a half!  For 
one  confession,  to  be  exempted  from  it  altogether,  al- 
though you  may  have  deserved  a thousand  years  of  it! 
If  not  stopped  by  shame,  these  bold  traffickers  in  salva- 
tion ought  at  least,  one  would  think,  to  dread  lest  their 
wares  should  suffer  depreciation  in  consequence  of  being 
given  away  for  so  little.  True,  they  do  not  cost  them 
anything,  and  there  is  no  limit  to  purchases.  Nobody, 
well  knowing  to  how  many  years  of  Purgatory  he  may 
be  condemned,  can  reasonably  stop  in  adding  to  the 
amount  of  indulgences  with  which  he  is  to  appear  at 
the  bar  of  judgment.  By  placing  himself  on  the  most 
favorable  conditions,  and  taking  care  to  let  no  occasion 
be  lost,  a man  of  sixty  might  without  difficulty  have 
amassed  them  for  above  a million  of  years,  over  and 
above  the  plenary  ones,  each  one  of  which  ought  to  suf- 
fice, and  with  which  one  does  not  well  see  what  the  rest 
can  signify”  (Bungener,  Hist,  of  the  Council  of  Trent , p. 
520,  521). 

VI.  For  further  literature  and  discussion  of  the  sub- 
ject, see  Bp.  Pliilpot’s  Letters  to  Mr.  Butler , p.  151-153; 
Hales,  Analysis  of  Chronology,  x ol.  ii,  pt.  ii,  p.  1019-22; 
3Iendham,  Spiritual  Venality  of  Rome  (London,  1836, 
I2mo) ; Mendham,  Venal  Indulgences  and  Pardons  of  the 
Church  of  Rome  exemplified  (Lond.  1839,  12mo) ; Ferra- 
ris,  Bibliotheca  Promta.  s.  v. ; Elliot  t,  Delineation  of  Ro- 
manism, book  ii,  ch.  xiii ; Ilerzog,  Real-Encyklop.  i,  67 ; 
Neander,  History  of  Doctrines,  ii,  594;  Neander,  Church 
History,  iii,  52,  i 38 ; v,  180,  280;  Mosheim,  Ch.  History, 
bk.  iv,  cent,  xvi,  § 1,  ch.  i and  ii;  D’Aubigne',  History 
of  the  Reformation,  bk.  iii ; Amort,  De  Origine,  etc.,  in- 
dulgentiarum  (Aug.Vind.  1735,  l’ol.);  Hirscher,  Lehre  v. 
Ablass  (Tubing.  1844);  Gieseler,  Church  Hist,  ii,  § 35, 
81  ; Hook,  Church  Dictionary,  s.  v. ; Eadie,  Ecclesiastical 
Dictionary,  s.  v. ; Cramp,  Text-book  of  Popery,  ch.  xix ; 
Bungener,  Hist,  of  the  Council  of  Trent,  p.  518-530;  Ull- 
mann, Reformers  before  the  Reformation,  i,  235  sq. ; Ber- 
gier,  Diet,  de  Theologie,  iii,  398. 

Indult  (Latin  indultus,  participle  of  indulgeo , I in- 
dulge) signifies  in  ecclesiastical  law  a peculiar  form  of 
dispensation  granted  by  the  pope  from  the  requirements 
of  the  ordinary  law.  Thus  the  power  of  bestowing  bene- 
fices is  granted  to  cardinals  or  princes  by  an  indult  from 
the  pope. 

Industrial  Schools.  In  Germany,  Great  Brit- 
ain, France,  and  in  the  United  States,  efforts  have  of 
late  years  been  made  to  combine  with  the  general  rudi- 
mentary education  of  the  common  school  the  teaching 
of  the  mechanical  arts  and  of  agriculture,  and  thus  to 
afford  the  poorer  classes  the  advantages  of  a literary  and 
industrial  education  within  a smaller  limit  than  former- 
ly, thereby  greatly  alleviating  the  wants  which  are  so 
frequent  among  them.  “ In  elementary  schools  for  girls, 
industrial  work,  to  the  extent  of  sewing,  shaping,  knit- 
ting, and  netting,  has  been  almost  universally  intro- 
dueed,  and  forms  one  of  the  most  important  and  inter- 
esting features  of  female  primary  education,  more  espe- 
cially in  Great  Britain ; butt  the  attempt  to  connect  with 


INDWELLING  SCHEME 


5G9 


INFALLIBILITY 


these  subjects  instruction  in  cooking,  washing,  and  iron- 
ing has  been  tried  as  yet  only  to  a limited  extent,  and 
has  been  only  partially  successful.  In  ragged  schools, 
on  the  other  hand,  no  department  of  the  school-work 
seems  to  thrive  better,  partly  because  it  enters  so  large- 
ly into' the  scheme  of  instruction,  partly  because  the 
children  are  removed  from  the  control  of  parents.  In 
England  the  ragged  schools  are  recognised  by  the  Leg- 
islature as  ‘industrial  schools,’  and  may  be  defined  as 
schools  in  which  the  pupils  are  fed  and  clothed  (wholly 
or  partially),  as  well  as  taught  the  elements  of  an  ordi- 
nary education,  and  the  practice  of  some  trade.  By  a 
statute  passed  in  1801,  children  under  14  found  vagrant 
or  begging  or  convicted  of  petty  offences,  may  be  sent 
by  a magistrate  to  an  industrial  school  that  has  been 
certified  by  the  home  secretary.  Parents  also,  on  pay- 
ing for  board  and  lodging  a small  sum,  may  place  they 
children  in  industrial  schools  if  they  can  show  that  they 
are  unable  to  control  them.  The  treasury  may  contrib- 
ute to  the  maintenance  of  these  schools  on  the  repre- 
sentation of  the  home  secretary.  If  a child  abscond 
from  the  school  before  he  is  15,  the  justices  may  send 
him  back,  or  place  him  in  a reformatory  school  (q.  v.). 
In  1861  there  were  in  England  23,  and  in  Scotland  16 
industrial  schools,  and  the  number  of  pupils  attending 
"ms  respectively  1574  in  the  former,  and  1606  in  the  lat- 
ter” (Chambers,  s.  v.).  In  ( lermany,  these  schools  prove 
even  a greater  boon  to  the  poorer  classes  than  elsewhere, 
especially  to  orphans.  By  law  every  child  is  obliged  to 
attend  school  until  confirmation  (about  14  years  of  age), 
and  the  acquirement  of  some  trade  enables  children  of 
14  to  begin  work  to  advantage,  and  earn  at  least  their 
own  livelihoodt  if  they  may  not  even  aid  in  the  support 
of  their  parents  or  other  near  relatives.  It  is  to  be 
hoped  that  in  the  United  States  the  generous  spirit  of 
the  different  Christian  societies  will  especially  further 
this  work,  and  make  industrial  schools  numerous  in  all 
our  large  cities  at  least.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Indwelling  Scheme,  a name  used  by  some  Eng- 
lish theologians  to  denote  a theory  derived  from  Col.  ii, 
ix:  “In  him  dwelleth  all  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead 
bodily,”  which,  according  to  some,  asserts  the  doctrine 
of  Christ’s  consisting  of  two  beings;  one  the  self-exist- 
ent Creator,  and  the  other  a creature,  made  into  one  per- 
son by  an  ineffable  union  and  indwelling,  which  renders 
the  same  attributes  and  honors  equally  applicable  to 
both.  Sec  ClIRISTOLOGY. 

Indwelling  Sin.  See  Sin. 

Ineffabilis  Deus.  See  Immaculate  Concep- 
tion. 

Inerrancy.  See  Indefectibility. 

Infallibility  is  the  quality  of  being  incapable 
either  of  being  deceived,  or  of  leading  others  astray. 
Romanists,  while  acknowledging  that  God  alone  is  nat- 
urally infallible,  maintain  that  he  has  been  pleased  to 
transmit  this  quality,  to  some  undefined  extent,  to  the 
Church  and  to  the  popes,  so  that  they  are  infallible  in 
their  decisions  on  all  points  of  doctrine. 

I.  Infallibility  of  the  Church.— The  following 
is  a condensed  view  of  the  infallibility  of  the  Church  of 
Rome,  as  collected  from  her  own  authors.  Dens  affirms, 
“That  the  Church,  in  matters  of  faith  and  manners,  can 
by  no  means  err,  is  an  article  of  belief.  Moreover,  in- 
fallibility in  the  Church  may  be  considered  in  a twofold 
point  of  view:  the  one  active  and  authoritative,  which 
is  called  infallibility  in  teaching  and  defining;  the  other 
passive  or  submissive  ( obediential  is ),  which  is  called  in- 
fallibility in  learning  and  believing.  Infallibility,  consid- 
ered in  the  first  sense,  refers  to  the  Church  with  respect 
to  the  head  or  chief  pontiff,  and  the  prelates  of  the 
Church;  although  this  infallibility  would  not  regard 
the  laity  or  inferior  pastors;  for,  as  a man  is  said  to  see, 
although  his  vision  does  not  apply  to  all  his  members, 
but  to  his  eyes  only,  so  the  Church,  in  like  manner,  is 
said  to  be  infallible,  although  this  infallibility  refers 
only  to  the  prelates.  But  if  the  Church  is  not  consid- 


ered with  regard  to  its  head,  but  as  it  embraces  all  the 
faithful,  or  laics,  under  the  obedience  of  the  pope,  it  is 
not  proper  to  say  it  is  infallible  in  teaching  and  defin- 
ing, because  its  gift  in  this  respect  is  not  to  teach,  but 
to  learn  and  believe;  wherefore  the  Church,  in  this  view, 
is  said  to  be  ‘passibly  infallible,’ or  infallible  in  learn- 
ing, believing,  practising,  etc.  Therefore  it  is  impossi- 
ble that  the  whole  Church,  obedient  to  the  pope,  should 
believe  any  thing  as  revealed,  or  practice  any  thing  as 
good  which  is  not  such ; hence  it  can  be  said  that  the 
sense  of  the  universal  Church  is  always  true,  and  its 
practice  or  usage  always  good”  (Dens,  Theol. , tom.  ii,  l)e 
Ecclesia , No.  80, 1)e  Infallibilltate  Ecclesia?).  The  same 
author  affirms  also  that  “ the  Church  is  an  infallible 
judge  of  controversies  of  faith;  that  this  authority  is 
vested  in  the  bishops  only,  especially  in  the  pope,  and 
that  lay  persons,  priests,  doctors,  or  others,  have  no  part 
in  making  infallible  decisions  in  the  Church.”  lie  says 
the  government  of  the  ( ’hurcli  is  a monarchy  with  re- 
gard to  its  head,  but,  at  the  same  time,  tempered  with 
an  aristocracy.  A unanimous  consent  is  not  necessary 
to  make  a decision  infallible;  a majority  is  sufficient  for 
this  purpose.  He  also  says  that  a tacit  consent  is  suffi- 
cient to  make  a decision  infallible;  for  to  be  silent  is  to 
consent.  Hence  he  concludes  that  “when  the  pope  de- 
fines anything,  and  the  majority  of  bishops  do  not  object, 
it  is  impossible  that  this  definition  should  embrace  error” 
(Dens,  Theol.  tom.  ii,  No.  82,  Qualis  esse  debent  Consensus 
Episcoporuni),  “ From  the  above  we  collect  four  princi- 
pal systems  which  concern  the  seat  of  infallibility,  and 
these  contain  a considerable  number  of  subdivisions,  the 
chief  of  which  are  expressed  in  the  following  analysis. 
First  System:  This  embraces  the  infallibility  of  the 
whole  Church,  and  includes  two  cases:  (1.)  The  Church 
diffusive , that  is,  all  her  clergy  as  a body,  inasmuch  as 
the  people,  whenever  infallibility  is  concerned,  compose 
no  part  of  the  Church.  (2.)  The  bishops,  as  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  Church,  though  not  assembled  in  coun- 
cil. Second  System : A council  composed  of  all  the  bish- 
ops; and  this  also  is  divided  into  two  cases : (I.)  The  de- 
cision of  a council  when  approved  by  the  whole  Church. 
(2.)  The  decision  of  a council  when  not  approved  by  the 
whole  Church.  Third  System:  A council  and  pope 
united.  There  are  four  cases  of  this:  (1.)  A council 
convened  by  the  pope.  (2.)  A council  confirmed  by  the 
pope.  (3.)  A council  convened  by  the  pope,  and  whose 
decisions  are  received  by  the  whole  Church,  or  the  body 
of  her  pastors.  (4.)  A council  confirmed  by  the  pope, 
and  received  subsequently  by  the  Church.  Fourth  Sys- 
tem : Respects  the  infallibility  of  the  pope  himself.  This 
has  the  four  following  cases:  (1.)  The  pope  himself  de- 
ciding officially.  (2.)  The  pope  and  a few  bishops.  (3.) 
The  pope,  when  his  decisions  are  received  by  the  whole 
Church.  (4.)  The  pope  and  a few  bishops,  whose  de- 
cisions are  received  by  the  whole  Church.  Any  person 
who  will  examine  the  quotations  given  from  Roman 
Catholic  authors  will  perceive  these  four  distinct  sys- 
tems, together  with  the  several  eases  under  each.  If  we 
also  consider  their  differences  in  regard  to  the  extent  of 
infallibility  (some  confining  it  to  articles  of  faith  and 
precepts  of  morality,  and  others  making  distinctions  be- 
tween matters  of  right  and  facts,  and  then  of  facts  con- 
nected with  faith,  and  also  that  their  Church  has  not 
precisely  defined  where  this  infallibility  is  to  be  found), 
then  we  may  safely  say  that  the  bare  recital  of  their 
endless  divisions  respecting  the  seat  of  infallibility  will 
prove  that  the  thing  is  not  in  existence”  (Elliott,  On 
Romanism,  p.  66). 

This  infallibility  of  the  Church  Romanists  attempt  to 
prove  (1.)  from  a supposed  unanimity  of  the  bishops, 
which,  they  argue,  would,  if  considered  as  mere  human 
testimony,  carry  with  it  an.  amount  of  moral  certainty 
admitting  of  no  doubt,  and  therefore  equivalent  to  infal- 
libility ; (2.)  from  the  divinely  appointed  mission  of  a 
clergy  regularly  descended  from  the  apostles,  who  them- 
selves had  the  most  positive  promises  of  Christ  (John 
xx,  21;  xv,  15;  Matt,  xxviii,  19,  20;  John  xiv,  16,  17; 


INFALLIBILITY 


570 


INFALLIBILITY 


1 uke  x 16).  They  also  quote  2 Tim.  i,  14 ; ii,  2 ; and  I 66).  Cardinal  Cusamis,  as  quoted  by  the  former  writer, 
Acts  xx  28,  to  show  that  the  apostles  claimed  this  priv-  declares  that  “ the  pope  gives  authority  to  the  council” 
ile«v  for  themselves,  as  well  as  the  power  of  transmit-  j (Cusanus,  lib.  iii,  cap.  xv,  De  Concord  CatkoL).  Dens 
tim'  it  to  those  they  appointed  over  the  churches.  j teaches  that  “ general  councils,  without  the  approbation 
The  same  privilege  has  also  been  ascribed  to  the  j of  the  pope,  are  fallible,  and  often  err ; that  the  contirma- 
pope  as  successor  of  .St.  Peter,  and  God’s  only  vicege-  [ don  of  the  pope  to  any  particular  decrees  of  a council 
rent.  The  ultramontanes,  such  as  Bellarmine,  Baronius, ! impart  to  these  decrees  plenary  authority ; it  is  an  article 
etc.  maintain  that  whatever  dogmatic  judgment  or  de-  of  faith  that  general  councils  approved  by  the  pope  can- 
cision  on  a doctrinal  point  the  pope  addressed  to  the  not  err  in  defining  matters  of  faith  and  morals:  hence 
whole  church,  is  necessarily  correct.  But  as  it  has  re-  j they  are  to  be  considered  as  manifest  heretics  who  pre- 
peat  edly  occurred  that  the  Church,  as  represented  in  sume  to  call  in  question  what  is  decreed  by  such  coun- 
councils, has  disagreed  with  the  pope  on  points  of  doc-  cils.”  lie  also  believes  that  the  decisions  of  particular 
trine,  it  follows  that,  if  both  are  equally  infallible,  the  councils,  confirmed  by  the  pope,  are  likewise  infallible, 
people  are  bound  to  believe  equally  two  opposite  doc-  and  that  this  is  founded  on  the  infallibility  of  the  pope, 
trines.  The  French  Church  settled  the  difficulty  by  But  Benedict  XIV.,  to  whom  Dens  refers,  thinks  that 
proclaiming  general  councils  superior  to  the  pope  (or  the  decisions  of  such  councils  are  binding  only  in  their 
“ more  infallible”) ; the  assembly  of  the  clergy,  in  1682,  own  provinces  or  dioceses.  Many  Komanist  writers, 
asserted  that  “in  controversies  of  faith  the  office  of  the  however,  maintain  strongly  that  the  decisions  of  gener- 
pope  is  the  chief,  and  that  his  decrees  pertain  to  all  al  councils  are  infallible  without  the  pope’s  confirmation, 
churches;  nevertheless,  that  his  judgment  is  not  irre-  It  would  be  an  endless  task  to  quote  the  authorities  on 
fonnibile  unless  it  is  confirmed  by  the  consent  of  the  both  sides.  They  are,  for  the  most  part,  however,  agreed 
Church.”  Bossuet  sustained  this  principle  with  great  that  what  they  call  general  councils  are  infallible:  some 
talent  and  eloquence  in  his  Defensio  beclarat.  Cleri  believe  them  infallible  because  they  are  general  coun- 
Gallic.  ii,  pt.  i,  12  sq.  He  proves  by  the  decrees  of  coun-  ' cils,  while  others,  believing  the  same,  consider  the  con- 


cils,  by  the  testimony  of  fathers,  doctors,  and  schoolmen, 
by  the  declarations  of  popes  themselves,  aud  especially 
of  Adrian  VI,  that  the  infallibility  of  the  pope  was  a 
new  doctrine,  altogether  unknown  in  the  early  ages  of 
the  Church.  “ He  disproves  the  infallibility  of  the  pope 


formation  of  the  pope  as  necessary  to  the  authoritative 
character  of  the  assembly. 

“ The  discordant  sentiments  of  Romanists  respecting 
those  characteristics  which  are  necessary  to  constitute 
infallibility,  form  a strong  argument  against  the  iner- 


not  merely  bjr  negative,  but  by  a long  and  strong  chain  rancy  of  councils.  The  four  following  opinions  have 
of  positive  evidence;  by  adducing  a number  of  instances,  been  strongly  held  by  the  Church  of  Rome:  (1.)  Some 
as  well  as  direct  assertions  of  his  infallibility  from  gen-  i have  asserted  that  the  diffusive,  and  not  the  representa- 
eration  after  generation;  by  showing,  from  a large  indue-  tive  body  of  the  Church  possessed  infallibility.  Occam, 
tion  of  facts,  that  during  a series  of  centuries  he  was  re-  ' Petrus  de  Aliaco,  Cusanus,  Antoninus  of  Florence,  Pa- 
garded  and  treated  as  fallible,  and  never  as  otherwise  I normitan,  Nicholas  de  Clemangis,  Franciscus  Mirandula, 
than  fallible;  and  that, when  another  opinion  began  to]  and  others,  were  of  this  opinion.  (2.)  Some  say  that 
gain  ground,  it  arose  mainly  front  the  exercise  of  that  councils  are  no  farther  infallible  than  as  they  adhere  to 
authority  which  belongs  to  a supreme  power”  (Hare,  Scripture  and  universal  tradition.  (3.)  Others, that  coun- 
Contest  with  Rome, ^."2 Vd).  Bossuet’s  views  were  held  by  j cils  are  of  themselves  infallible,  whether  the  pope  confirm 
Fleury.  Dupin,  catuinal  Bausset,  etc.  They  were  attack-  ! them  or  not.  This  was  the  common  opinion  before  the 
ed  bv  De  Maistre  in  his  work  Du  Pape.  A work  of  Council  of  Lateran,  under  Leo  X,  as  appears  from  the 
great  interest  on  this  subject  is  the  recently  discovered  ] Councils  of  Basil  and  Constance.  (4.)  Many  make  the 
Refutation  of  all  Her  esies  of  Hippoly tus,  which  gives  us  confirmation  of  the  pope  necessary  to  the  infallibility  of 
a clear  idea  of  the  manner  in  which  the  Roman  bishops  I a general  council.  There  is  an  irreconcilable  difference 
were  considered  in  his  times.  “In  Germany,  where  j between  the  last  two  opinions;  for  those  who  suppose 
truth  is  held  the  most  precious  of  all  possessions,  even  councils  to  be  infallible  without  the  confirmation  of  the 
by  members  of  the  Catholic  Church,  the  conviction  of  | pope  believe  them  to  be  above  him,  and  that  he  is  falli- 
the  mischiefs  produced  by  the  doctrine  of  the  infallibili-  ble ; while  those  who  are  of  opinion  that  the  confirma- 
t v of  the  pope  is  so  strongly  felt  by  many,  that  one  of 
the  greatest  philosophers  of  the  last  generation,  Baader, 
who  was  a zealous  champion  of  the  Christian  truth,  and 
himself  an  earnest  Roman  Catholic,  used  perpetually  to 
repeat  the  pregnant  words  of  St.  Martin,  ‘ Le  Fapisme 
est  la  faiblesse  du  Catholicisme;  et  le  Catholicisme  est 
la  force  du  Papisme’” (Hare,  Contest  u-ith  Rome , p.  218). 

As  regards  the  infallibility  of  the  Church,  Dr.  New- 
man himself,  in  his  Lectures  on  Romanism , p.  61,  said: 

“In  the  creed  of  pope  Pius  not  a word  is  said  expressly 
about  the  Church’s  infallibility:  it  forms  no  article  of 
faith  there.  Her  interpretation  indeed  of  Scripture  is 
recognised  as  authoritative ; but  so  also  is  ‘ the  unani- 
mous consent  of  the  fathers,  whether  as  primitive  or  con- 
cordant ; they  believe  the  existing  Church  to  be  infalli- 
ble; and,  if  ancient  belief  is  at  variance  with  it,  which 
of  course  they  do  not  allow,  but  if  it  is,  then  antiquity 
must  be  mistaken — that  is  all.’  ” 

“ That  general  councils  are  infallible  is  generally  be- 


tion  of  his  holiness  is  absolutely  necessary  to  the  infalli- 
bility of  the  council  believe  him  to  be  infallible,  and  su- 
perior to  a council.” 

See  Elliott,  On  Romanism,  hook  iii,  chap,  iii ; and  book 
i,  chap,  iv ; Bull,  Reply  to  the  Bishop  of  Meaux  (Works, 
vol.  ii;  Faber,  Difficulties  of  Romanism ; Ouseley,  On 
Papal  Novelties ; Hook,  Eccles.  Diet.  s.  v. ; Cramp,  Text- 
book of  Popery,  p.  66;  Hare,  Contest  with  Rome , p.  16, 
210,  223;  Kitto,  Journal  of  Sacred  Literature,  Oct.  1854. 

II.  Infallibility  of  the  Pope.— For  many  centu- 
ries the  popes  have  demanded,  and,  so  far  as  lay  in 
them,  enforced  an  absolute  submission  to  all  their  doc- 
trinal decisions.  They  forbade  appeal  from  their  tribu- 
nal to  the  General  Council,  and  even  disallowed  the 
plea  of  the  Jansenists,  Ilcrmesians,  aud  other  schools 
whose  views  were  censured,  that  the  popes  censuring 
them  had  erred,  not  in  what  they  stated  to  be  the  Cath- 
olic doctrine,  but  in  understanding  the  right  sense  of 
the  censured  books.  Thus  the  popes  for  many  centu- 
lieved by  Romanists.  Some, however, maintain  that  the  ries  have  acted  as  though  they  were  infallible;  and  yet 
confirmation  of  the  pope  is  necessary  to  constitute  in-  it  was  distinctly  taught  within  the  Church  that  the  in- 
fallibility; and  others,  that  the  decisions  of  councils  are  fallibility  of  the  pope  was  not  a recognised  doctrine, 
infallible,  whether  confirmed  by  the  pope  or  not.  We  and  even  many  catechisms  and  manuals  of  doctrine  ex- 
quote the  sentiments  of  some  who  contend  that  the  de-  plicitly  stated,  with  the  couseut  of  many  bishops,  that 
crees  of  a general  council,  with  the  confirmation  of  the  the  infallibility  of  the  pope  was  not  a doctrine  of  the 
pope,  are  infallible.  Ferraris  says,  “The  definitions  of  a , Church.  One  of  the  chief  objects  for  which  the  Yati- 
general  council  legitimately  assembled,  issued  in  the  ah-  I can  Council  was  called  in  I8IJ9  was  to  make  an  end  of 
senccofthe  pope,  are  not  infallible  without  his  confirma-  this  uncertainty  and  enrol  the  doctrine  of  papal  infalli- 
tion”  (Ferraris,  Biblioth.  Prompt,  in  Concilium,  art.  i,  sect.  I bility  among  the  formal  Church  doctrines.  As  soon  as 


INFALLIBILITY 


571 


INFALLIBILITY 


it  became  generally  known  that  it  was  intended  to  bring 
tills  subject  before  the  council,  a number  of  works  ap- 
peared, discussing  the  proposed  innovation  in  every  as- 
pect. By  far  the  most  important  of  these  is  the  one 
published  in  Germany  under  the  title  Dvr  Papst  und 
das  Condi  (Mentis,  1809;  Engl,  trails!.  The  Pope  and  the 
Council),  which  gives  an  exhaustive  history  of  the  views 
of  the  Church  concerning  infallibility.  The  author  of 
the  work,  who  on  the  title-page  calls  hitnself  Janus,  was 
subsequently  found  to  be  professor  llubcr,  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Munich.  The  book  is  a storehouse  of  immense 
learning,  for  the  author  quotes  thousands  of  individual 
cases  to  show  that  no  one  can  for  a moment  believe  in 
this  doctrine  without  falsifying  the  whole  history  of  the 
Church.  “ For  thirteen  centuries,”  says  our  author,  “an 
incomprehensible  silence  on  this  fundamental  article 
reigned  throughout  the  whole  Church  and  her  litera- 
ture. None  of  the  ancient  confessions  of  faith,  no  cate- 
chism, none  of  the  patristic  writings  composed  for  the 
instruction  of  the  people,  contain  a syllable  about  the  j 
pope,  still  less  any  hint  that  all  certainty  of  faith  and 
doctrine  depends  on  him.”  Not  a single  question  of 
doctrine  for  the  first  thousand  years  was  finally  decided 
by  the  popes;  in  none  of  the  early  controversies  did 
they  take  any  part  at  all ; and  their  interposition,  when 
they  began  to  interpose,  was  often  far  from  felicitous. 
Pope  Zosimus  commended  the  Pelagian  teaching  of  Ce- 
lcstius,  pope  Julian  affirmed  the  orthodoxy  of  the  Sa- 
bellian  Marcellas  of  Ancvra,  pope  Liberals  subscribed  an 
Arlan  creed,  pope  Yigilins  contradicted  himself  three 
times  running  on  a question  of  faith,  pope  Honorius  lent 
the  whole  weight  of  his  authority  to  the  support  of  the 
newly-introduced  Monothelite  heresy,  and  was  solemnly 
anathematized  by  three  oecumenical  councils  for  doing 
so.  Nor  do  these  “errors  and  contradictions  of  the 
popes”  grow  by  any  means  fewer  or  less  important  as 
time  goes  on.  The  blundering  of  successive  popes  about 
the  conditions  of  valid  ordination — on  which,  according 
to  Catholic  theology,  the  whole  sacramental  system, 
and  therefore  the  means  of  salvation,  depend — are  alone 
sufficient  to  dispose  forever  of  their  claim  to  infallibility. 
Neither,  again,  did  the  Roman  pontiffs  possess,  in  the 
ancient  constitution  of  the  Church,  any  ot  those  powers 
which  are  now  held  to  be  inherent  in  their  sovereign 
office,  and  which  must  undoubtedly  be  reckoned  among 
the  essential  attributes  of  absolute  sovereignty.  They 
convoked  none  of  the  general  councils,  and  only  pre- 
sided, by  their  legates,  at  three  of  them;  nor  were  the 
canons  enacted  there  held  to  require  their  confirmation.  ' 
They  had  neither  legislative,  administrative,  nor  judi- 
cial  power  in  the  Church,  nor  was  any  further  efficacy 
attributed  to  their  excommunication  than  to  that  of 
any  other  bishop.  No  special  prerogatives  were  held  to 
have  been  bequeathed  to  them  by  St.  Peter,  and  the 
only  duty  considered  to  devolve  on  them  in  virtue  of 
their  primacy  was  that  of  watching  over  the  observance 
of  the  canons.  The  limited  right  of  hearing  appeals, 
granted  to  them  by  the  Council  of  Snrdica  in  847,  was 
avowedly  an  innovation,  of  purely  ecclesiastical  origin, 
and,  moreover,  was  never  admitted  or  exercised  in  Afri- 
ca or  the  East.  Many  national  churches,  like  the  Ar- 
menian, the  Syro-Persian,  the  Irish,  and  the  ancient 
British,  were  independent  of  any  influence  of  Rome. 
When  first  something  like  the  papal  system  was  put 
into  words  by  an  Eastern  patriarch,  St.  Gregory,  the 
greatest  and  best  of  all  the  early  popes,  repudiated  the 
idea  as  a wicked  blasphemy.  Not  one  of  the  fathers 
explains  the  passages  of  the  New  Testament  about  St. 
Peter  in  the  ultramontane  sense;  anti  the  Tridentine 
profession  of  faith  binds  all  the  clergy  to  interpret  Scrip- 
ture in  accordance  with  their  unanimous  consent.  “To  , 
prove  the  doctrine  of  papal  infallibility,  nothing  less  is  1 
required  than  a complete  falsification  of  Church  history.”  I 

The  following  are  interesting  specimens  of  cases  in 
which  the  popes  expressly  contradicted  other  popes,  or  i 
the  doctrine  of  the  Church  as  it  is  now  recognised  : 

“Innocent  I and  Gelasius  I,  the  former  writing  to  the  I 


Council  of  Milevis,  the  latter  in  his  epistle  to  the  bish« 
ops  of  Picemun,  declared  it  to  he  so  indispensable  for  in* 
fants  to  receive  communion,  that  those  who  die  without 
it  go  straight  to  hell  (St.  August.  Opp.  ii,  G40 ; Condi 
Coll.  [ed.Lahbe],iv,  1178).  A thousand  years  later  the 
Council  of  Trent  anathematized  this  doctrine. 

“ It  is  the  constant  teaching  of  the  Church  that  ordi' 
nation  received  from  a bishop,  quite  irrespectively  of 
his  personal  worthiness  or  unworthiness,  is  valid  and  in* 
delible.  Putting  aside  baptism,  the  whole  security  of 
the  sacraments  rests  on  this  principle  of  faith,  and  re-* 
ordination  lias  always  been  opposed  in  the  Church  as  a 
crime  and  a profanation  of  the  sacrament.  Only  in 
Rome,  during  the  devastation  which  the  endless  wars  Of 
Goths  and  Lombards  inflicted  on  Central  Italy,  there 
was  a collapse  of  all  learning  and  theology,  which  dis- 
turbed and  distorted  the  dogmatic  tradition.  Since  the 
8th  century,  the  ordinations  of  certain  popes  began  to 
be  annulled,  ami  the  bishops  and  priests  ordained  by 
them  were  compelled  to  be  reordained.  This  occurred 
first  in  7G9,  when  Constantine  II,  who  had  got  posses- 
sion of  the  papal  chair  by  force  of  arms,  and  kept  it  for 
thirteen  months,  was  blinded,  and  deposed  at  a synod, 
and  all  his  ordinations  pronounced  invalid. 

“ But  the  strongest  case  occurred  at  the  end  of  the 
9th  century,  after  the  death  of  pope  Formosus,  when  the 
repeated  rejections  oi  his  ordinations  threw  the  whole 
Italian  Church  into  the  greatest  confusion,  and  produced 
a general  uncertainty  as  to  whether  there  were  any 
valid  sacraments  in  Italy.  Auxilius,  who  was  a con- 
temporary, said  that  through  this  universal  rejection 
and  repetition  of  orders  (;ordinatio,  exordinatio,  et  su- 
perord  matin’),  matters  had  come  to  such  a pass  in  Rome 
that  for  twenty  years  the  Christian  religion  had  been 
interrupted  and  extinguished  in  Italy.  Popes  and  syn- 
ods decided  in  glaring  contradiction  to  one  another,  now 
for,  now  against  the  validity  of  the  ordinations,  and  it 
was  self-evident  that  in  Rome  all  sure  knowledge  on 
the  doctrine  of  ordination  was  lost.  At  the  end  of  his 
second  work,  Auxilius,  speaking  in  the  name  of  those 
numerous  priests  and  bishops  whose  ecclesiastical  status 
was  called  in  question  by  the  decisions  of  Stephen  VII 
and  Sergius  III,  demanded  the  strict  investigation  of  a 
General  Council,  as  the  only  authority  capable  of  solv- 
ing the  complication  introduced  by  the  popes  (Mabillon, 
Analecta  [Paris,  17*23],  p.  39). 

“ But  the  council  never  met,  and  the  dogmatic  uncer- 
tainty and  confusion  in  Rome  continued.  In  the  mid- 
dle of  the  1 1 tli  century  the  great  contest  against  si- 
mony, which  was  then  thought  equivalent  to  heresy, 
broke  out,  and  the  ordinations  of  a simoniacal  bishop 
were  pronounced  invalid.  Leo  IX  reordained  a num- 
ber of  persons  on  this  ground,  as  Peter  Damiani  relates 
(Petri  Damaini  Ojmsc.  p.  419).  Gregory  VI I,  at  his  fifth 
Roman  synod,  made  the  invalidity  of  all  simoniacal  or- 
dinations a rule,  and  the  principle,  confirmed  by  Urban 
II,  that  a simoniacal  bishop  can  give  nothing  in  ordina- 
tion, because  he  has  nothing,  passed  into  the  Decretum 
of  Gratian  (Caus.  i,  qu.  7,  c.  *24). 

“ In  these  cases  it  is  obvious  that  doctrine  and  prac- 
tice were  most  intimately  connected.  It  was  only  from 
their  holding  a false,  and,  in  its  consequences,  most  in- 
jurious notion  of  the  force  and  nature  of  this  sacrament, 
that  the  popes  acted  as  they  did,  and  if  they  had  then 
been  generally  considered  infallible,  a hopeless  confusion 
must  have,  been  introduced,  not  only  into  Italy,  but  the 
whole  Church. 

“ In  contrast  to  pope  Pelagius,  who  had  declared,  with 
the  whole  Eastern  and  Western  Church,  the  indispensa- 
ble necessity  of  the  invocation  of  the  Trinity  in  baptism, 
Nicolas  I assured  the  Bulgarians  that  baptism  in  the 
name  of  Christ  alone  was  quite  sufficient,  and  thus  ex- 
posed the  Christians  there  to  the  danger  of  an  invalid 
baptism.  The  same  pope  declared  confirmation  admin- 
istered by  priests,  according  to  the  Greek  usage  from 
remote  antiquity,  invalid,  and  ordered  those  so  confirm- 
ed to  be  confirmed  anew  by  a bishop,  thereby  denying 


INFALLIBILITY 


572 


INFALLIBILITY 


to  the  whole  Eastern  Church  the  possession  of  a sacra- 
ment, and  laying  the  foundation  of  the  hitter  estrange- 
ment which  led  to  a permanent  division  ( Concil . Coll. 
[ed.  Labbe],  vi,  548). 

“Stephen  II  (III)  allowed  marriage  with  a slave  girl 
to  be  dissolved,  and  a new  one  contracted,  whereas  all 
previous  popes  had  pronounced  such  marriages  indis- 
soluble (ih.  vi,  1650).  He  also  declared  baptism,  in  cases 
of  necessity,  valid  when  administered  with  wine  (ib.  vi, 
1652). 

“Cclcstine  III  tried  to  loosen  the  marriage  tie  by  de- 
claring it  dissolved  if  either  party  became  heretical. 
Innocent  III  annulled  this  decision,  and  Hadrian  YI 
called  Cclcstine  a heretic  for  giving  it.  This  decision 
was  afterwards  expunged  from  the  31 S.  collections  of 
papal  decrees,  but  the  Spanish  theologian  Alplionsus  de 
Castro  had  seen  it  there  (Adv.IIor.  [ed.  Paris],  1565; 
comp.  Meleh.  Canus,  p.  240). 

“The  Capernaite  doctrine,  that  Christ’s  body  is  sen- 
sibly ( sensualiter ) touched  by  the  hands  and  broken  by 
the  teeth  in  the  Eucharist  — an  error  rejected  by  the 
whole  Church,  and  contradicting  the  impassibility  of 
his  body — was  affirmed  by  Nicolas  II  at  the  Synod  of 
Pome  in  1059,  and  Bercngar  was  compelled  to  acknowl- 
edge it.  Lanfranc  reproaches  Berengar  with  afterwards 
wishing  to  make  cardinal  Humbert,  instead  of  the  pope, 
responsible  for  this  doctrine  (Lanfranc,  De  Euch.  c.  8 
[ed.  Migne],  p.  412). 

“Innocent  HI,  in  order  to  exhibit  the  papal  power 
in  the  fullest  splendor  of  its  divine  omnipotence,  invent- 
ed the  new  doctrine  that  the  spiritual  bond  which  unites 
a bishop  to  his  diocese  is  firmer  and  more  indissoluble 
than  the  ‘carnal’  bond,  as  he  called  it,  between  man 
and  wife,  and  that  God  alone  can  loose  it,  viz.  translate 
a bishop  from  one  see  to  another.  But  as  the  pope  is 
the  representative  of  the  true  God  on  earth,  he,  and  he 
alone,  can  dissolve  this  holy  and  indissoluble  bond,  not 
by  human,  but  divine  authority,  and  it  is  God,  not  man, 
who  looses  it.  (Decretal  ‘ De  Transl.  Episc.'  c.  2,  3,  4. 
This  was  to  introduce  a new  article  of  faith.  The 
Church  had  not  known  for  centuries  that  resignations, 
depositions,  and  translations  of  bishops  belonged  by  di- 
vine right  to  the  pope.)  The  obvious  and  direct  corol- 
lary, that  the  pope  can  also  dissolve  the  less  firm  and 
holy  bond  of  marriage.  Innocent,  as  we  have  seen,  over- 
looked, for  he  solemnly  condemned  Cclestine  Ill’s  decis- 
ion on  that  point,  and  thus  he  unwittingly  involved  him- 
self in  a contradiction.  Many  canonists  have  accepted 
this  as  the  legitimate  consequence  of  his  teaching. 

“ Innocent  betrayed  his  utter  ignorance  of  theology 
when  he  declared  that  the  Fifth  Book  of  Moses,  being 
called  Deuteronomy,  or  the  Second  Book  of  the  Law, 
must  bind  the  Christian  Church,  which  is  the  second 
Church  (Decretal  ‘ Qui  fdii  sint  leyitimi,'  c.  13).  This 
great  pope  seems  never  to  have  read  Deuteronomy,  or 
he  could  hardly  have  fallen  into  the  blunder  of  suppos- 
ing, e.  g.,  that  the  Old-Testament  prohibitions  of  par- 
ticular kinds  of  food,  the  burnt -offerings,  the  harsh  pe- 
nal code  and  bloody  laws  of  war,  the  prohibitions  of 
woollen  and  linen  garments,  etc.,  were  to  be  again  made 
obligatory  on  Christians.  As  the  Jews  were  allowed  in 
Deuteronomy  to  put  away  a wife  who  displeased  them 
and  take  another,  Innocent  ran  the  risk  of  falling  himself 
into  a greater  error  about  marriage  than  Cclestine  III. 

Notable  contradictions  as  to  temporal  privileges  occur 
in  the  history  of  the  alternate  approbations  and  perse- 
cutions of  the  Franciscan  order  by  the  popes. 

“One  of  the  most  comprehensive,  dogmatic  docu- 
ments ever  issued  by  a pope  is  the  decree  of  Engenius 
IV  ‘to  the  Armenians,’  dated  November  22,  1439,  three 
months  after  the  Council  of  Florence  was  brought  to  an 
end  by  the  departure  of  the  Greeks.  It  is  a confession 
of  faith  of  the  Homan  Church,  intended  to  serve  as  a 
rtdc  of  doctrine  and  practice  for  the  Armenians  on  those 
points  they  had  previously  differed  about.  The  dogmas 
of  the  Unity  of  the  Divine  Nature,  the  Trinity,  the  In- 
carnation, and  the  Seven  Sacraments,  are  expounded, 


and  the  pope,  moreover,  asserts  that  the  decree  thus  sol- 
emnly issued  has  received  the  sanction  of  the  council, 
that  is,  of  the  Italian  bishops  whom  he  had  detained  in 
Florence. 

“ If  this  decree  of  the  pope  were  really  a rule  of  faith, 
the  Eastern  Church  would  have  only  four  sacraments 
instead  of  seven ; the  Western  Church  would  for  at  least 
eight  centuries  have  been  deprived  of  three  sacraments, 
and  of  one,  the  "want  of  which  would  make  all  the  rest, 
with  one  exception,  invalid.  Engenius  IV  determines 
in  this  decree  the  form  and  matter,  the  substance  of  the 
sacraments,  or  of  those  things  on  the  presence  or  ab- 
sence of  which  the  existence  of  the  sacrament  itself  de- 
pends, according  to  the  universal  doctrine  of  the  Church, 
lie  gives  a form  of  confirmation  ■which  never  existed  in 
one  half  of  the  Church,  and  first  came  into  use  in  the 
other  after  the  19th  century.  So,  again,  with  penance. 
What  is  given  as  the  essential  form  of  the  sacrament 
was  unknown  in  the  Western  Church  for  eleven  hun- 
dred years,  and  never  known  in  the  Greek.  And  when 
the  touching  of  the  sacred  vessels,  and  the  words  accom- 
panying the  rite,  are  given  as  the  form  and  matter  of 
ordination,  it  follows  that  the  Latin  Church  for  a thou- 
sand years  had  neither  priests  nor  bishops  — nay,  like 
the  Greek  Church,  which  never  adopted  this  usage,  pos- 
sesses to  this  hour  neither  priests  nor  bishops,  and  con- 
sequently no  sacraments  except  baptism,  and  perhaps 
marriage.  (Comp.  Dcnzinger,  Enchirid.  Symbol,  et  Def- 
inite Wirceb.  1854,  p.  200  sq.  But  Dcnzinger,  in  order 
to  conceal  the  purely  dogmatic  character  of  this  famous 
decree,  has  omitted  the  frst  part,  on  the  Trinity  and  In- 
carnation, which  is  given  in  Ravnaldiis’s  Annals,  1439. 
[The  same  conspicuously  untenable  explanation  was 
adopted  in  the  Dublin  Review  for  January,  1866. — Tii.]) 

“It  is  noteworthy  that  this  decree — with  which  pa- 
pal infallibility  or  the  whole  hierarchy  and  the  sacra- 
ments of  the  Church  stand  or  fall— is  cited,  refuted,  and 
appealed  to  by  all  dogmatic  writers,  but  that  the  adhe- 
rents of  papal  infallibility  have  never  meddled  with  it. 
Neither  Bellarmine,  nor  Charlas,  nor  Aguirre,  nor  Orsi, 
nor  the  other  apologists  of  the  Roman  court,  troubled 
then  solves  with  it.-’ 

Into  dogmatic  theology  the  doctrine  of  papal  infalli- 
bility was  introduced  by  Thomas  Aquinas.  On  the 
basis  of  fabrications  invented  by  a Dominican  monk, 
including  a canon  of  the  Council  of  Chaleedon,  giving 
all  bishops  an  unlimited  right  of  appeal  to  the  pope,  and 
on  the  forgeries  found  in  Gratian,  Thomas  built  up  his 
papal  system,  with  its  two  leading  principles,  that  the 
pope  is  the  first  infallible  teacher  of  the  world,  and  the 
absolute  ruler  of  the  Church.  The  popes  were  so  well 
pleased  with  the  teachings  of  Thomas  that  John  XXII 
affirmed  Thomas  had  not  written  without  a special  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  Innocent  VI  said  that 
whoever  assailed  his  teaching  incurred  suspicion  of  her- 
esy. The  powerful  mendicant  orders  of  Dominicans  and 
Franciscans  found  the  papal  system,  with  its  theory  of 
infallibility,  indispensable  for  the  success  of  their  own 
claims  against  the  bishops  and  universities,  and  they 
became  the  violent  champions  of  the  new  doctrine.  The 
boldest  champions  of  papal  absolutism  admitted,  how- 
ever, that  the  popes  coidd  err,  and  that  their  decisions 
were  no  certain  criterion.  But  they  also  held  that  in 
such  cases  a heretical  pope  ipso  facto  ceased  to  be  pope, 
without  or  before  any  judicial  sentence,  so  that  councils, 
which  are  the  Church’s  judicature,  only  attested  the 
vacancy  of  the  papal  throne  as  an  accomplished  fact. 
The  contest  between  the  Council  of  Basel  and  pope  Eu- 
genins  IV  evoked  the  work  of  cardinal  Torqucmada, 
whose  argument,  which  was  held,  up  to  the  time  of  Bel- 
larmine, to  be  the  most  conclusive  apology  of  the  papal 
system,  rests  entirely  on  fabrications  later  than  the 
pseudo-Isidore,  and  chiefly  on  the  spurious  passages  of 
St.  Cyril.  Torqucmada  also  holds  that  a pope  can  lapse 
into  heresy  and  propound  false  doctrine,  but  then  he  is 
ipso  facto  deposed  by  God  himself  before  any  sentence 
of  the  Church  has  been  passed,  so  that  the  Church  or 


INFALLIBILITY  5 73  INFALLIBILITY 


council  cannot  judge  him,  but  can  only  announce  the 
judgment  of  God,  and  thus  one  cannot  properly  say 
that  a pope  can  become  heretical,  since  he  ceases  to  be 
pope  at  the  moment  of  passing  from  orthodoxy  to  het- 
erodoxy. The  doctrine  entered  on  a fresh  phase  of 
development  from  the  time  of  Leo  X.  Its  foremost 
defender  at  that  time  was  Thomas  of  Vic  or  Cajetan, 
yet  the  doctrine  was  so  far  from  becoming  dominant  at 
Lome  that  the  successor  of  Leo  X,  Adrian  VI,  who,  as 
professor  of  Louvain,  had  maintained  in  his  principal 
work  that  several  popes  had  been  heretical,  and  that  it 
was  certainly  possible  for  a pope  to  establish  a heresy 
by  his  decision  or  decretals,  caused,  as  pope,  his  work 
denying  infallibility  to  be  reprinted  in  Rome. 

Another  patron  "of  the  infallibility  theory,  who  la- 
bored hard  to  naturalize  it  in  Belgium,  the  Louvain 
theologian,  Ruard  Tapper,  returned  in  1552  from  Trent 
cruelly  disillusionized,  and  thought  the  deep-seated  cor- 
ruption of  the  Church  a matter  not  to  be  disputed,  but 
to  be  deplored.  The  third  of  the  theological  fathers 
of  papal  infallibility  in  the  16th  century  was  Tapper’s 
contemporary,  the  Spaniard  Melchior  Canus,  whose  work 
on  theological  principles  and  evidences  was,  up  to  Bel- 
larmine’s  time,  the  great,  authority  used  by  all  infal- 
libilists.  Like  Tapper,  he  became  in  later  years  dis- 
gusted with  the  effect  of  the  papal  system  on  the  popes 
and  the  Curia , and  in  a report  to  the  king  of  Spain  ex- 
pressed the  opinion  that  the  whole  administration  of 
the  Church  at  Rome  was  “converted  into  a great  trad- 
ing business,  a traffic  forbidden  by  all  laws,  human, 
natural,  and  divine.”  Out  of  Italy  the  hypothesis  of 
infallibility  had  but  few  adherents,  even  in  the  16th 
century,  till  the  Jesuits  began  to  exercise  a powerful 
inti  uence. 

The  bishops  and  prominent  scholars  of  France,  Spain, 
Germany,  and  other  countries  were  almost  unanimous 
in  advocating  the  superiority  of  oecumenical  councils 
over  the  pope.  The  turning  of  the  tide  was  chiefly  due 
to  the  influence  of  the  Jesuits,  who  were  naturally  in- 
clined to  favor  the  extremest  absolutism  in  the  Church. 
As  their  representative,  cardinal  liellamrine  further  de- 
veloped the  ideas  of  Cajetan,  in  which  he  generally  con- 
curs ; but  he  rejects  decisively  Cajetan ’s  hypothesis  of  a 
heretical  pope  being  deposed  ipso  facto  by  the  judgment 
of  God.  A heretical  pope  is  legitimate  so  long  as  the 
Church  has  not  deposed  him.  If  Cajetan  said  the  Church 
was  the  handmaid  of  the  pope,  Bellarmine  adds  that 
whatever  doctrine  it  pleases  the  pope  to  prescribe  the 
Church  must  receive;  there  can  be  no  question  raised 
about  proving  it;  she  must  blindly  renounce  all  judgment 
of  her  own,  and  iirmly  believe  that  all  the  pope  teaches 
is  absolutely  true,  all  he  commands  absolutely  good,  and 
all  he  forbids  simply  evil  and  noxious.  For  the  pope  can 
as  little  err  in  moral  as  in  dogmatic  questions.  Nay,  he 
goes  so  far  as  to  maintain  that  if  the  pope  were  to  err 
by  prescribing  sins  and  forbidding  virtues,  the  Church 
would  be  bound  to  consider  sins  good  and  virtues  evil, 
unless  she  chose  to  sin  against  conscience;  so  that  if 
the  pope  absolve  the  subjects  of  a prince  from  their  oath 
of  allegiauee,  which,  according  to  Bellarmine,  he  has  a 
full  right  to  do,  the  Church  must  believe  that  what  he 
has  done  is  good,  and  every  Christian  must  hold  it  a sin 
to  remain  any  longer  loyal  and  obedient  to  his  sover- 
eign. Through  the  influence  of  Bellarmine  and  other 
writers  of  his  order,  the  infallibility”  hypothesis  now 
made  immense  strides.  One  great  stumbling-block 
had,  however,  to  be  removed.  Every  theologian,  on 
closer  inspection,  found  papal  decisions  which  contra- 
dicted other  doctrines,  laid  down  by  popes  or  generally 
received  in  the  Church,  or  which  appeared  to  him 
doubtful,  and  it  seemed  impossible  to  declare  all  these 
products  of  an  infallible  authority.  It  became  necessa- 
ry, therefore,  to  specify  some  distinctive  marks  by  which 
a really  infallible  decision  of  a pope  might  be  recog- 
nised, or  to  fix  certain  conditions,  in  the  absence  of 
which  the  pronouncement  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  in- 
fallible. And  thus,  since  the  16th  century,  there  grew 


up  the  famous  distinction  of  papal  decisions  promulga- 
ted ex  cathedra , and  therefore  dogmatically,  and  with- 
out any  possibility  of  error.  By  means  of  this  ingen- 
ious distinction,  some  of  the  most  inconvenient  decisions 
of  popes,  which  it  was  desirable  to  except  from  the  priv- 
ilege of  infallibility  generally  asserted  in  other  cases, 
could  be  explained  away.  Thus  pope  Ilonorius,  in  the 
dogmatic  letter  which  was  condemned  as  heretical  by 
the  sixth  oecumenical  council,  and  the  decision  address- 
ed by  Nicolas  I to  the  Bulgarian  Church  that  baptism 
administered  simply  in  the  name  of  Jesus  is  valid,  were 
declared  to  be  judgments  given  by  the  popes  as  pri- 
vate persons.  A number  of  other  limitations  were  pro- 
posed by  the  theologians  advocating  infallibility,  but 
only  two  were  commonly  received,  viz.  Bellarmine’s, 
that  the  papal  decree  must  be  addressed  to  the  whole 
Church ; and  Cellot’s,  that  he  must  anathematize  all  who 
dissent  from  his  teaching.  According  to  this  doctrine, 
which  is  taught  by  the  most  prominent  dogmatic  writer 
of  the  order  in  the  present  century,  Perrone  (Pndeet. 
77ieo?o£f.viii,497,Louvain,  1843),  and  received  by  pretty 
nearly  the  whole  order,  the  pope  is  liable  to  err  when 
he  addresses  an  instruction  to  the  French  or  German 
Church  only ; and,  moreover,  his  infallibility  becomes 
very  questionable  whenever  he  omits  to  denounce  an 
anathema  on  all  dissentients.  Since  the  time  of  Bellar- 
miue,  the  infallibility  hypothesis  has  been  one  of  the 
chief  distinctions  of  the  Jesuits  and  the  most  radical 
portion  of  the  Ultramontane  party  on  the  one  hand, 
and  all  other  schools  within  the  Catholic  Church  on  the 
other.  A number  of  synods,  bishops,  and  prominent 
theologians,  and  in  some  instances  the  whole  Catholic 
Church  of  several  countries,  put  themselves  on  record 
against  the  doctrine,  for  which,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
Jesuits  and  other  Ultramontane  writers  incessantly 
strove  to  gain  friends  among  bishops,  clergy,  and  laity, 
and,  in  particular,  among  the  sovereigns. 

When  pope  Pius  IX  intimated  his  intention  to  con- 
voke a council  for  the  definition  of  the  doctrine,  a num- 
ber of  bishops,  especially  in  France  and  Germany,  de- 
clared themselves  to  be  decidedly  opposed  to  the  doc- 
trine, and  at  least  one  of  them,  the  French  bishop  Ma- 
ret  (bishop  of  Sura  in  partibus  infid.,  and  dean  of  the 
theological  faculty  of  Paris'),  published  an  elaborate 
work  (On  the  General  Council  and  the  public  Peace)  to 
refute  it,  and  to  prove  that  it  would  subvert  the  very 
foundation  of  the  Church.  The  substance  of  his  argu- 
ment against  papal  infallibility  is  as  follows:  Accord- 
ing to  the  holy  Scriptures  the  Church  is  a limited  mon- 
archy, which  stands  under  the  common  rule  of  the  pope 
and  the  bishops.  The  history  of  the  councils  is  at  least 
as  much  in  favor  of  the  divine  right  of  the  bishops  as 
of  the  supremacy  of  the  holy  chair.  Freedom  of  dis- 
cussion, vote  by  majority,  a juridical  examination  of  the 
apostolic  decrees,  and  in  certain  cases  a right  to  con- 
demn the  doctrines  and  the  person  of  the  pope — these 
are  rights  which  prove  beyond  all  doubt  the  participa- 
tion of  the  bishops  in  the  sovereign  powers  of  the  holy 
father.  But  these  rights  do  not  extend  far  enough  to 
give  the  episcopal  body  a supremacy  over  the  pope,  and 
the  latter  therefore  exercises,  in  general,  all  the  privi- 
leges of  supremacy.  lie  summons  the  council,  presides 
over  it,  dissolves  it,  and  sanctions  its  decrees.  In  a 
word,  he  always  remains  the  head  of  the  Church.  If, 
however,  the  changes  desired  by  a certain  school  are 
made,  the  Church  will  cease  to  be  a limited,  and  become 
an  absolute  monarchy.  This  would  be  a complete  re  v- 
olution ; but  what  is  truly  divine  is  unchangeable,  and, 
consequently,  if  the  constitution  of  the  Church  is 
changed,  it  ceases  to  be  divine.  Pius  IX,  in  his  bull 
Inejfabilis  Deus,  has  himself  said  of  doctrine,  Crescat  in 
eodem  sensu,  in  eadem  senfentia;  but  the  new  dogma 
would  lead  to  a development  of  doctrine  in  alio  sensu,  in 
alia  senfentia.  It  would  therefore  amount  to  a denial 
of  the  divinity  of  the  Church.  “ If  it  were  realized,” 
exclaims  the  bishop,  “what  a triumph  would  it  be  to 
the  enemies  of  the  Church ! They  would  call  the  assev- 


574 


INFALLIBILITY 


INFALLIBILITY 

erations  of  centuries,  and  history  itself,  as  ■witnesses 
against  Catholicism : she  would  be  crushed  by  the 
weight  of  opposing  testimony;  the  holy  Scriptures,  the 
fathers,  and  the  councils  would  rise  in  judgment  against 
her.  They  would  bury  us  in  our  shame,  and  from  the 
desert  atheism  would  rise  more  powerful  and  threaten- 
ing than  ever”  (ii,  378). 

When  the  council  met  (Dec.  8,  18G9)  it  was  soon 
found  that  there  were,  with  regard  to  this  question, 
three  parties  among  the  bishops : one,  which  regarded 
the  promulgation  of  this  new  doctrine  as  the  best  and 
most  urgent  work  the  council  shoidd  attend  to ; the  sec- 
ond, which  petitioned  the  pope  against  this  doctrine, 
which  they  believed  would  be  at  least  a great  stumbling- 
block  for  all  non-Catliolics,  and  even  for  a great  many 
members  of  the  Catholic  Church  ; the  third,  which  was 
in  favor  of  a compromise,  would  have  some  regard  for 
the  arguments  adduced  by  the  second  class,  and  there- 
fore, instead  of  promulgating  in  unmistakable  and  bold 
clearness  the  doctrine  of  papal  infallibility,  woidd  attain 
the  same  end  in  a less  offensive  way,  by  inculcating  the 
duty  of  an  absolute  submission  to  every  decision  of  the 
pope  in  matters  of  faith.  The  majority  of  the  bishops 
signed  a petition  for  the  promulgation  of  infallibility, 
which  had  been  drawn  up  by  the  German  bishop  of  Fa- 
de rborn,  and  received  410  signatures.  The  counter  ad- 
dress (or,  rather,  counter  addresses)  against  the  infalli- 
bility was  signed  by  10*2  bishops,  among  whom  were  20 
Americans,  4G  Frenchmen,  37  Germans  and  Austrians, 
19  Orientals,  2 Portuguese,  1 1 1 Bulgarians,  3 English- 
men, and  15  Italians.  The  address  of  the  middle  party, 
which  desired  to  effect  a compromise,  was  drawn  up  by 
the  archbishop  of  Baltimore.  The  address  against  the 
proclamation  of  the  doctrine  of  infallibility,  drawn  up 
by  the  cardinal  archbishop  Rauscher,  of  Vienna,  is 
couched  in  the  most  submissive  expressions,  assures  the 
holy  father  of  the  devotedness  of  all  the  bishops  to  the 
apostolical  see,  and  continues;  “It  would  not  be  right 
to  ignore  that  many  difficulties,  arising  from  expres- 
sions or  actions  of  the  Church  lathers  from  the  docu- 
ments of  history,  and  even  from  the  Catholic  doctrine, 
remain,  which  must  be  thoroughly  explained  before  it 
would  be  admissible  to  lay  this  doctrine  before  the 
Christian  people  as  one  revealed  by  God.  But  our 
minds  revolt  aj  iinst  a controversial  discussion  of  this 
question,  and  confidently  implore  thy  kindness  not  to 
lay  upon  ns  the  duty  of  such  a transaction.  As  we, 
moreover,  exercise  the  episcopal  functions  among  great 
Catholic  nations,  we  know  their  condition  from  daily 
intercourse;  hence  we  are  satislied  that  the  asked-for 
doctrinal  decision  will  offer  weapons  to  the  enemies  of 
religion,  in  order  to  excite  aversion  to  the  Catholic  re- 
ligion, even  of  men  of  good  character,  and  we  are  cer- 
tain that  this  decision  would  offer,  at  least  in  Europe, 
an  opportunity  or  a pretext  to  the  governments  of  our 
countries  to  make  encroachments  upon  the  rights  which 
have  remained  to  the  Church.  We  have  concluded  to 
lay  this  before  thy  holiness,  with  the  sincerity  which 
we  owe  to  the.  father  of  the  faithful,  and  we  ask  thee 
that  the  doctrinal  opinion,  the  sanction  of  which  is  de- 
manded by  the  address,  be  not  submitted  to  the  council 
for  consideration.”  Among  the  signers  are,  besides  the 
cardinal  archbishop  of  Vienna,  nearly  all  the  archbish 
ops  of  Germany  and  Austria;  in  particular,  the  cardinal 
archbishop  of  l’rague,  the  archbishops  of  Cologne,  Mu- 
nich, Bamberg,  and  others.  The  bishops  who  signed 
this  remonstrance  against  the  promulgation  of  papal  in- 
fallibility as  a doctrine  enutined  themselves  to  urging 
the  inopportuneness.  Only  a few  plainly  expressed 
themselves  against  the  dogma  itself.  But  wliat  the 
bishops  failed  to  do,  the  catholic  scholars,  especially 
those  of  Germany,  did  so  emphatically  that  their  pro- 
tests against  the  ultra  papal  theories,  and  against  the 
whole  spirit  prevailing  in  Borne,  made  a profound  sen- 
sation throughout  the  Christian  world. 

One  of  the  most  learned  Church  historians  of  the  Ro- 
man Catholic  Church,  professor  Bollinger,  of  the  Uni- 


versity of  Munich,  in  a letter  addressed  to  the  A ugs- 
burger  Zeitung , and  since  published  as  a pamphlet  in  an 
enlarged  form  (Encagungen  fur  die  Bischofe  des  Concils, 
Ratisbon,  18G9),  subjected  the  address  of  the  bishops 
who  asked  for  the  promulgation  of  infallibility  to  the 
most  crushing  criticism.  Dr.  Bollinger  says  of  this 
petition  of  the  champions  of  papal  infallibility  that 
henceforth  “ one  hundred  and  eighty  millions  of  human 
beings  arc  to  be  forced,  on  pain  of  excommunication, 
refusal  of  the  sacraments,  and  everlasting  damnation,  to 
believe  and  to  profess  that  which  hitherto  the  Church 
has  not  believed,  not  taught.”  The  proclamation  of 
this  dogma,  he  says,  would  be  an  “alteration  in  the 
faith  and  doctrine  of  the  Church  such  as  has  never  been 
heard  of  since  Christianity  was  Jirst  founded."  The 
whole  foundation  of  the  Church  would  thereby  be  affect- 
ed. Dr.  Dollinger  shows  conclusively  that  until  the 
lGth  century  the  doctrine  of  papal  infallibility  was  en- 
tirely unknown,  and  that,  when  it  was  taken  up  by  car- 
dinal Bellarmine,  it  could  only  be  supported  by  the  tes- 
timony of  Isidorian  decretals,  which  are  forged,  and 
those  of  Cyril,  which  are  a Jicticn. 

The  views  of  Dollinger  ami  Gratry  received  the  em- 
phatic assent  of  the  large  majority  of  the  Catholic  schol- 
ars of  Germany  and  France.  The  governments  of 
France,  Austria,  Portugal,  Spain,  Bavaria,  and  other 
Catholic  countries  instructed  their  ministers  in  Rome  to 
enter  an  earnest  protest  against  a doctrine  which  would 
compel  all  members  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  to 
believe  in  the  right  of  the  pope  to  choose  kings  and  re- 
lease their  subjects  from  the  oath  of  allegiance.  Even 
some  of  the  members  of  the  council,  in  particular  the 
cardinal  archbishop  Rauscher  of  Vienna,  and  bishop  He- 
fele  of  Rottenburg,  who  was  regarded  as  the  most  learn- 
ed bishop  of  the  council,  published  pamphlets  against 
the  dogmatization  of  infallibility  while  it  was  discussed 
by  the  council.  But  all  this  opposition  failed  to  make 
the  least  impression  upon  the  majority  of  the  bishops. 
From  the  opening  of  the  council,  the  inl'allibilists  showed 
themselves  so  uncompromising  that  they  refused  to  give 
to  the  minority  even  one  single  representative  in  the 
important  commission  on  dogmatical  questions,  which, 
on  the  other  hand,  embraced  the  name  of  every  bishop 
who,  by  writings,  influence,  or  otherwise,  had  gained  a 
prominent  position  as  a defender  of  infallibility : in  par- 
ticular, archbishop  Manning,  of  Westminster;  archbish- 
op Dechamps,  of  Mali  nos:  archbishop  Spalding,  of  Bal- 
timore; bishop  Martin,  of  Paderborn  ; bishop  Fie,  of 
Poitiers;  the  Armenian  patriarch  llassun,  of  Constanti- 
nople. The  discussion  of  the  question  commenced  on 
the  13th  of  May.  The  schema  was  comprised  in  a pre- 
amble and  four  chapters,  and  was  known  to  form  the 
first,  part  of  the  dogmatic  constitution  lie  Ecclesia  Ckris- 
ti.  The  debate  is  known  to  have  been  long  and  ani- 
mated, many  bishops  entering  a very  earnest  protest 
against  the  promulgation  of  such  an  innovation.  Bish- 
op Strossmayer,  of  Bosnia  and  Sirmium,  in  Croatia; 
bishop  Dnpanloup,  of  Orleans,  in  France ; archbishop 
Darboy,  of  Paris ; bishop  Ilcfele,  of  Rottenburg,  in  Wiir- 
temherg ; cardinal  archbishop  Rauscher,  of  Vienna ; car- 
dinal archbishop  prince  Sehwarzenbcrg,  of  Prague,  are 
mentioned  as  those  bishops  who  spoke  with  the  great- 
est effect  against  the  proposed  doctrine.  The  regula- 
tions of  the  council  made  it  lawful  for  ten  prelates  to 
petition  for  the  closing  of  a discussion  ; the  proposal  be- 
ing then  put  to  the  vote  of  all  the  fathers,  and  the  ma- 
jority deciding.  When  fifty -five  speeches  had  been 
made  on  the  schema  in  general,  one  hundred  and  fifty 
j bishops  sent  a petition  for  closing  the  general  discussion, 
which  was  accordingly  done,  to  the  great  dissatisfaction 
1 of  the  opponents  of  infallibility,  a number  of  whom  ad- 
! dressed  to  the  pope  a protest  against  tlie  closing  of  the 
I general  discussion,  as  it  had  deprived  the  council  of  the 
opportunity  to  hear  all  the  arguments  against  the  new 
I doctrine.  The  discussion  of  the  schema  as  regards  the 
whole  and  the  several  parts  having  been  completed,  a 
vote  was  taken  according  to  the  regulations  in  a general 


INFALLIBILITY 


575 


INFALLIBILITY 


congregation  on  the  10th  of  July,  on  the  whole  schema 
by  name,  with  placet,  or  placet  juxta  modum,  or  non-pla- 
cet. The  result  was  as  follows : 451  placets,  G2  placets 
juxta  modum,  and  88  non-placets.  Some  of  the  placets 
juxta  modum  recommended  the  insertion  of  words  that 
would  make  the  decree  clearer  and  stronger.  The  sche- 
ma was  accordingly  altered,  and  the  amendments  were 
retained  in  the  general  congregation,  held  Saturday,  July 
1G.  The  final  step  was  then  taken,  in  the  fourth  public 
session  of  the  council,  on  the  18th  of  July.  The  roll  of 
the  members  was  again  called,  when  534  answered  pla- 
cet, 2 replictl  non-placet,  and  10G  were  absent,  some  be- 
cause sick,  the  far  greater  number  not  willing  to  vote 
favorably.  As  soon  as  the  result  was  made  known  of- 
ficially to  Pius  IX,  he  announced  the  fact  of  all  with 
the  exception  of  two  having  given  a favorable  vote, 
“ Wherefore,”  he  continued,  “ by  virtue  of  our  apostolic 
authority,  with  the  approval  of  the  sacred  council,  we 
define,  confirm,  and  approve  the  decree  and  canons  just 
read.”  The  following  is  a faithful  translation  of  chap- 
ter iv  of  the  schema,  which  treats  of  papal  infallibility  : 

Of  the  infallible  Authority  of  the  Roman  Pontiff  in  Teach- 
ing.— This  holy  see  hath  ever  held — the  unbroken  custom 
of  the  Church  doth  prove — and  the  oecumenical  councils, 
those  especially  in  which  the  East  joined  with  the  West 
in  union  of  faith  and  of  charity,  have  declared,  that  in  this 
apostolic  primacy,  which  the  Roman  pontiff  holds  over 
the  universal  Church  as  successor  of  Peter,  the  prince  of 
the  apostles,  there  is  also  contained  the  supreme  power 
of  authoritative  teaching.  Thus  the  fathers  of  the  fourth 
Council  of  Constantinople,  following  in  the  footsteps  of 
their  predecessors,  put  forth  this  solemn  profession  : 

“The  first  law  of  salvation  is  to  keep  the  rule  of  true 
faith.  And  whereas  the  words  of  onr  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
cannot  be  passed  by,  who  said,  Thou  art  Peter,  and  upon 
this  rock  I will  build  my  Church  (Matt,  xvi,  18),  these 
words,  which  he  spake,  art  proved  true  by  facts;  for  in 
the  apostolic  see  the  Catholic  religion  has  ever  been  pre- 
served unspotted,  and  the  holy  doctrine  has  been  an- 
nounced. Therefore,  wishing  never  to  be  separated  from 
the  faith  and  teaching  of  this  see,  we  hope  to  be  worthy 
to  abide  in  that  one  communion  which  the  apostolic  see 
preaches,  in  which  is  the  full  and  true  firmness  of  the 
Christian  religion."  [Formula  of  St.  Ilormisdas,  pope, 
a<  [imposed  bv  Hadrian  II  to  the  fathers  of  the  eighth 
General  Council  (Constantinople,  IV),  and  subscribed  by 
them.] 

So,  too,  the  Greeks,  with  the  approval  of  the  second 
Council  of  Lyons,  professed  that  the  holy  Roman  Church 
holds  over  the  universal  Catholic  Church  a supreme  and 
full  primacy  and  headship,  which  she  truthfully  and  hum- 
bly acknowledges  ilmt  she  received,  with  fulucss  of  pow- 
er, from  the  Lord  himself  in  blessed  Peter,  the  prince  or 
head  of  the  apostles,  of  whom  the  Roman  pontiff  is  the 
successor ; and  as  she,  beyond  the  others,  is  bound  to  de- 
fend the  truth  of  the  faith,  so,  if  any  questions  arise  con- 
cerning faith,  they  should  be  decided  by  her  judgment. 
And,  finally,  the  Council  of  Florence  defined  that  the  Ro- 
man pontiff  is  the  true  vicar  of  Christ,  and  the  head  of  the 
whole  Church,  and  the  father  and  teacher  of  all  Christians, 
and  that  to  him,  in  the  blessed  Peter,  was  given  by  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  full  power  of  feeding,  and  ruliug,  and 
governing  the  universal  Church  (John  xxi,  15-17). 

In  order  to  fulfil  this  pastoral  charge,  onr  predecessors 
have  ever  labored  mnveariedly  to  spread  the  saving  doc- 
trine of  Christ  among  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
with  equal  care  have  watched  to  preserve  it  pure  and  un- 
changed where  it  had  beeu  received.  Wherefore  the  bish- 
ops of  the  whole  world,  sometimes  singly,  sometimes  as- 
sembled in  synods,  following  the  long-established  custom 
of  the  churches  (St.  Cyril,  Alexand.,  and  St.  Ccelest.  Pap.), 
and  the  form  of  ancient  rule  (St.  Inuocent  I to  Councils 
of  Carthage  and  Milevi),  referred  to  this  apostolic  see 
those  dangers  especially  which  arose  in  matters  of  faith, 
in  order  that  injuries  to  faith  might  hest  be  healed  there 
where  the  faith  could  never  fail  (St.  Bernard,  epistle  190). 
And  the  Roman  pontiffs,  weighing  the  condition  of  times 
and  circumstances,  sometimes  calling  together  general 
councils,  or  asking  the  judgment  of  the  Church  scattered 
through  the  world,  sometimes  consulting  particular  syn- 
ods, sometimes  using  such  other  aids  as  divine  Providence  i 
supplied,  defined  that  those  doctrines  should  be  held 
which,  by  the  aid  of  God,  they  knew  to  be  conformable  to 
the  holy  Scriptures  and  the  apostolic  traditions.  For  the 
Holy  Ghost  is  not  promised  to  the  successors  of  Peter, 
that  they  may  make  known  new  doctrine  revealed  bv 
him,  but  that,  through  his  assistance,  they  may  sacredly 
guard  and  faithfully  set  forth  the  revelation  delivered  by 
the  apostles,  that  is,  the  deposit  of  faith.  And  this  their 
apostolic  teaching  all  the  venerable  fathers  have  em- 
braced, and  the  holy  orthodox  doctors  have  revered  and 
followed,  knowing  most  certainly  that  this  see  of  St.  Pe- 
ter ever  remains  free  from  all  error,  according  to  the  di- 
vine promise  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  made  to  the  prince 


of  the  apostles : I have  prayed  for  thee  that  thy  faith  fail 
not,  and  thou,  being  once  converted,  confirm  thy  brethren. 
(Conf.  St.  Agatho,  Kp.  ad  Imp.  a Cone.  (Kcum.  VI approb.) 

Therefore  this  gift  of  truth,  and  of  faith  which  fails  not, 
was  divinely  bestowed  on  Peter  and  his  successors  in  this 
chair,  that  they  should  exercise  their  high  office  for  the 
salvation  of  all,  that  through  them  the  universal  flock  of 
Christ  should  be  turned  away  from  the  poisonous  food  of 
error  and  should  be  nourished  with  the  food  of  heavenly 
doctrine,  and  that,  the  occasion  of  schism  being  removed, 
theentire  Church  should  be  preserved  one,  and,  planted  on 
her  foundation,  should  stand  firm  against  the  gates  of  hell. 

Nevertheless,  since  in  this  present  age,  when  the  saving 
efficacy  of  the  apostolic  office  is  exceedingly  needed,  there 
are  not  a few  who  carp  at  its  authority,  we  judge  it  al- 
together necessary  to  solemuly  declare  the  prerogative 
which  the  only-begotten  .Son  of  God  has  designed  to  unite 
to  the  supreme  pastoral  office. 

Wherefore,  faithfully  adhering  to  the  tradition  handed 
down  from  the  commencement  of  the  Christian  faith,  for 
t he  glory  of  God  our  Saviour,  the  exaltation  of  the  Catho- 
lic religion,  and  the  salvation  of  Christian  peoples,  with 
the  approbation  of  the  sacred  council,  we  teach  and  define 
it  to  be  a doctrine  diviuely  revealed,  that,  when  the  Ro- 
man pontiff  speaks  ex  cathedra,  that  is,  when  in  the  exer- 
cise of  his  office  of  pastor  aud  teacher  of  all  Christians, 
and  in  virtue  of  his  supreme  apostolic  authority,  he  de- 
fines that  a doctrine  of  faith  or  morals  is  to  be  held  by  the 
universal  Church,  he  possesses,  through  the  divine  assist- 
ance promised  to  him  in  the  blessed  Peter,  that  infallibil- 
ity with  which  the  divine  Redeemer  willed  his  Church  to 
be  endowed,  in  defining  a doctrine  of  faith  and  morals; 
aud  therefore  that  such  definitions  of  the  Roman  pontiff 
are  irreformable  of  themselves,  and  not  by  force  of  the 
consent  of  the  Church  thereto. 

And  if  any  one  shall  presume,  which  God  forbid,  to  con- 
tradict this  our  definition,  let  him  be  anathema. 

Given  in  Rome,  in  the  public  session,  solemnly  celebrat- 
ed in  the  Vatican  Basilica,  in  the  year  of  the  incarnation 
of  our  Lord  one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  seventy,  on 
the  eighteenth  day  of  July,  iu  the  tweuty-fifth  year  of  our 
pontificate.  Ita  est. 

Josurn,  Bisiioi*  op  St.  Poi.ten, 

Secretary  of  the  Council  of  the  Vatican. 

The  expectation  that  some  of  the  bishops  who  op- 
posed infallibility  at  the  council  would  persist,  in  their 
opposition,  and  decline  to  promulgate  the  new  doctrine 
in  their  dioceses,  was  not  fulfilled.  The  bishops  not 
only  submitted  themselves,  but  forced  also  their  dioceses 
to  submit.  In  Germany  a number  of  the  most  promi- 
nent theological  scholars  were  removed  from  their  chairs, 
and  suspended  from  their  priestly  functions,  for  refusing 
to  comply  with  the  demands  of  Rome.  Thus  the  creed 
of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  received  a new  doctrine 
which,  in  the  opinion  of  many  theologians  who  up  to 
that  time  had  been  regarded  throughout  the  Church  as 
her  .ablest  scholars,  radically  changes  the  character  of 
the  Church. 

According  to  the  opinion  of  Dr.  Bollinger,  more  has 
been  written  on  this  subject  during  the  last  one  hun- 
dred and  thirty  years  than  on  any  other  point  of 
Church  history  during  fifteen  hundred  years.  The 
most  important  work  on  the  subject,  thatof  Janus  ( The 
Pope  and  the.  Council),  as  well  as  the  works  of  Marct, 
Bollinger,  Maistre,  and  several  works  of  former  centu- 
ries, have  already  been  noticed.  Other  important  works 
treating  on  the  subject  are  Ballerini,  T)e  17  tic  llatione 
Primatas ; Schrader  (Jesuit),  l)e  Curtate  Romana  (vol. 
i,  Freiburg,  18G2;  vol.  ii,  Vienna,  1SGG) ; Philipp,  Kirch- 
enrecht  (vol.  v);  Rndis,  Petra.  Romana  (Mcntz,  1HG9); 
Deschamps  (archbishop  of  M alines),  V InfallibiUte  du 
Pape  (Malines,  1HG9) ; (Ira  try,  Lett  res  snr  l'  InfallibiUte 
( lu  Pape  (Paris,  18G9, 1870) ; Weninger  (Jesuit),  The  In- 
fallibility of  the  Pope  (Cincinnati,  18G9) ; Ilcrgcnrother, 

. 1 nti-Janus  (Wurzburg,  1870) ; Frohshammer.  Znr  Wiir- 
diyuny  tier  Unfehlbarkeit  lies  Papstes  mu!  </.  Kirche  (Mu- 
nich, 18G9);  Ilickell,  (Iriinde  fur  die  Cnfehlbarkeii  des 
Kirchenoberhauptes  (Monster,  1870);  Rauscber  (cardi- 
nal archbishop  of  Vienna),  Obserrationes  qmedam  de  in- 
fillibilitat is  ecclesiai  suhjecto  (Naples,  1870,  against  the 
dogmatization  of  infallibility) ; Kleutgen  (Jesuit),  De 
Romani  Pontificis  Suprema  potestate  docendi  (Naples, 
1870);  Schmitz,  1st  der  Papst  personlich  vnfehlbarf 
(Munich,  1870).  The  fullest  account  of  the  proceedings 
of  the  council  relative  to  the  dogmatization  of  infalli- 
hilitv  is  given  in  Quirinus,  Rumische  Briefe  vom  Concil 
(Munich,  1870).  (A.J.S.) 


INFANT  BAPTISM 


576 


INFANT  COMMUNION 


Infant  Baptism.  See  Baptism. 

Infant  Communion.  Notwithstanding  the  apos- 
tle’s direction,  “Let  a man  examine  himself,  and  so  let 
him  eat  of  that  bread,  and  drink  of  that  enp”  (1  Cor.  xi, 
28),  which  so  clearly  points  to  a mature  ago  when  man 
is  capable  of  self-examination  as  a requisite  in  those 
who  approach  the  Lord’s  table,  we  find  infants  admit- 
ted to  holy  communion  as  early  as  in  the  3d  century. 
The.  first  instances  of  it  occurred  in  the  North-African 
Church.  Cyprian,  in  his  Traetatus  de  lupsis  (p.  139,  ed. 
Gersdorf),  speaks  of  children  who  at  their  entrance  into 
the  world  partook  of  the  body  and  blood  of  the  Lord 
( cibum  et  pocuhnn  dominieum) ; he  further  gives  the  ex- 
ample of  a girl  ( paella ) whom  a deacon  had  obliged  to 
partake  of  the  cup,  but  who  cotdd  not  retain  what  she 
had  taken  because  she  had  previously,  by  her  nurse’s 
fault,  partaken  of  bread  dipped  into  wine,  and  had  made  j 
an  offering  to  idols.  This  practice  of  infant  communion 
was  undoubtedly  connected  with  infant  baptism,  and,  as 
a reason  for  it,  Augustine  lays  down  the  principle  that, 
unless  we  partake  of  the  Supper  of  the  Lord,  to  which 
no  oue  can  be  regularly  admitted  who  is  not  baptized, 
we  can  have  no  life  in  us  (John  vi,  53) ; and  this,  he  1 
maintains,  applies  as  well  to  children  as  to  men  ( Epist . 
23,  ud  Bonif.;  Bp.  I 00,  contra  duas  cpistolas  Being.  i,  22 ; I 
Sermo  riii,  de  verbis  upostol.  de  peccat.  merit,  i,  20).  The 
same  reasons  are  given  by  his  contemporary,  Innocent 
I,  bishop  of  Lome  (416),  in  his  letter  to  Augustine  and 
to  the  Council  of  Milevi:  Aug.  ep.  93,  “Parvidos  a-ter- 
naj  vitae  pnemiis  etiam  sine  baptismatis  gratia  donari 
posse  perfatum  est;  nisi  enim  mandueaverint  carnem 
Christi  et  biberint  sanguinem  ejus,  non  liabebunt  vitam 
in  se  ipsis.”  From  a similar  point  of  view,  Gelasius  I, 
pope  of  Borne,  writes  about  A.D.  495,  “No  one  should 
venture  to  exclude  any  child  from  this  sacrament,  with- 
out which  no  one  can  attain  to  eternal  life.”  But  as 
early  as  the  9th  century,  Fulgentius,  the  Augustine  of 
that  century,  advocated  the  rite  of  baptism,  only  sug- 
gesting that  by  it  “children  were  incorporated  into 
Christ,  and  so  partook  of  his  flesh  and  blood.”  The  cus- 
tom continued,  however,  in  the  Western  Church,  to  the 
time  of  ( harlemagne.  In  the  Sacramentarium  of  Greg- 
ory I,  and  in  the  old  Ordo  Romanus,  we  find  passages  in 
which  it  is  expressly  stated.  Thus  the  latter  recom- 
mends that  after  baptism  children  should  not  be  permit- 
ted to  taste  food  before  partaking  of  the  Eucharist,  and 
should  not  even  be  nursed  except  in  case  of  absolute  ne- 
cessity. We  find  the  same  in  Alenin’s  l)e  . 1 Jflic.,  where 
it  is  expressly  directed  that,  whenever  a bishop  is  pres-  j 
cnt.  baptism  should  be  immediately  followed  by  confir- 
mation, and  then  by  communion.  In  the  synodal  de- 
crees of  Walter  of  Orleans,  in  the  same  century,  we  find 
that  priests  are  always  to  have  the  Eucharist  ready,  so 
that  if  a child  should  be  taken  ill  it  should  not  be  in 
danger  of  dying  without  the  viaticum.  In  the  9th  cen- 
tury this  question  of  infant  communion  gave  rise  to  con- 
troversies. 'l'lnis  Pascliasius  Katbertus  maintained  that 
children  dying  before  communion  were  not  therefore  in 
danger,  since  by  baptism  they  had  already  entered  into 
communion  with  Christ.  Still,  in  the  12th  century,  wc 
find  Badulplms  Ardens  saying  ( Horn . in  die  Busch  a de 
Buchar.  necess.)  that  it  is  prescribed  ( statutum ) that  chil- 
dren should  receive  communion,  at  least  with  the  cup, 
soon  after  being  baptized,  so  that  “they  might  not  be 
in  danger  of  dying  without  that  necessary  sacrament.” 
Hugo  of  St. Victor  also  recommends  infant  communion,  j 
where  it  can  take  place  without  danger,  but  remarks 
that  this  Custom  had  already  fallen  into  disuse  in  his 
time,  the  practice  only  remaining  for  the  priest  to  give 
the  newly-baptized  child  a little  ordinary  wine,  instead 
of  the  blood  of  Christ,  which  practice  he  condemns.  : 
Soon  after  this,  Odo,  bishop  of  Paris,  forbade  giving 
children  unconsecrated  wafers,  and  thus  the  custom  was 
lost  in  the  Galliean  Church.  In  Germany  traces  are  to 
be  found  of  it  at  a still  later  period ; the  thing  ended  in 
a mere  senseless  superstition.  The  Council  of  Trent 
condemns  the  principle  of  the  necessity  of  infant  com-  1 


munion,  saying  that  the  practice  arose  in  the  circum- 
stances of  the  early  ages,  and  that  the  fathers  had  suffi- 
cient grounds  for  introducing  it  in  their  days,  without 
its  being  made  a necessity  of  salvation;  wherefore  the 
usage  could  lawfully  be  altered  and  dropped  (Sess.  xxi). 

In  the  Greek  Church  we  find  passages  of  some  theo- 
logians, which  in  their  exposition  of  the  doctrine  of  bap- 
tism would  seem  to  imply  that  they  rejected  this  neces- 
sity of  infant  communion  based  on  John  vi,  53 ; for  they 
designate  the  former  sacrament  as  a purification  through 
the  blood  of  Christ,  a partaking  of  the  Lamb  of  God, 
etc.  Yet  infant  communion  was  one  of  the  early  prac- 
tices in  that  church,  as  is  evident  from  the  fact  that  in 
the  Apostolic  Constitutions  (viii,  12)  mothers  are  recom- 
mended to  bring  their  children  with  them  to  commun- 
ion, and  children  are  counted  among  those  who  partake 
of  the  Lord’s  Supper  (viii,  13).  (Comp.  Stanley,  Hist,  of 
the  Bastern  Church,  p.  118, 1 19.)  This  custom  is  also  de- 
fended by  Pseudo-Dionvsius  (Ilier.  Bed.  vii,  11)  against 
the  profane,  who  considered  it  ridiculous.  The  Greek 
Church  still  upholds  infant  communion.  According  to 
Metoplianes  Kritopulos  (Conf.  Bccl.  Gr.  c.  9),  children 
( ]3pi<pri ),  after  they  are  baptized,  should  commune  when- 
ever their  parents  do. 

The  Homan  Church  and  all  Protestant  churches  now 
agree  in  rejecting  infant  communion.  Nevertheless, 
there  have  been  a few  advocates  of  the  practice  even 
among  Protestants  in  modern  times.  Among  the  most 
prominent  of  them  is  Pierce  ( Essay  on  the  Eucharist , 
London,  1304),  who  argues  for  the  practice  (1)  on  the 
ground  of  primitive  usage;  (2)  from  Scripture.  The 
latter  argument  is  “that  Christians  succeeding  to  the 
Jews  as  God’s  people,  and  being  grafted  upon  that 
stock,  their  infants  have  a right  to  all  the  privileges  of 
which  they  are  capable,  till  forfeited  by  some  immoral- 
ities; and,  consequently,  have  a right  to  partake  of  this 
ordinance,  as  the  Jewish  children  had  to  eat  of  the  pass- 
over  and  other  sacrifices;  besides  this,  he  pleads  those 
texts  which  speak  of  the  Lord’s  Supper  as  received  by 
all  Christians.  The  most  obvious  answer  to  all  this  is 
that  which  is  taken  from  the  incapacity  of  infants  to 
examine  themselves,  and  discern  the  Lord’s  body;  but 
he  answers  that  this  precept  is  only  given  to  persons 
capable  of  understanding  and  complying  with  it,  as 
those  which  require  faith  in  order  to  baptism  are  inter- 
preted by  the  Paedobaptists.  As  for  his  argument  from 
the  Jewish  children  eating  the  sacrifice,  it  is  to  be  con- 
sidered that  this  was  not  required  as  circumcision  was; 
the  males  were  not  necessarily  brought  to  the  Temple 
till  they  were  twelve  years  old  (Luke  ii,  42) ; and  the 
sacrifices  they  ate  of  were  chiefly  peace-offerings,  which 
became  the  common  food  to  all  that  were  clean  m the 
family,  and  were  not  looked  upon  as  acts  of  devotion  to 
such  a degree  as  our  Eucharist  is ; though,  indeed,  they 
were  a token  of  their  acknowledging  the  divinity  of 
that  God  to  whom  they  had  been  offered  (1  Cor.  x,  18) ; 
and  even  the  Passover  was  a commemoration  of  a tc  m- 
poral  deliverance;  nor  is  there  any  reason  to  believe 
that  its  reference  to  the  Messiah  was  generally  under- 
stood by  the  Jews.  On  the  whole,  it  is  certain  there 
would  be  more  danger  of  a contempt  arising  to  the 
Lord’s  Supper  from  the  admission  of  infants,  and  of  con- 
fusion and  trouble  to  other  communicants;  so  that,  not 
being  required  in  Scripture,  it  is  much  the  best  to  omit 
it.  When  children  are  grown  up  to  a capacity  of  be- 
having decently,  they  may  soon  be  instructed  in  the 
nature  and  design  of  the  ordinance ; and  if  they  appear 
to  understand  it,  and  give  proof  of  love  to  Christ,  it 
would  be  advisable  to  admit  them  to  communion,  though 
very  young;  which,  by  the  way,  might  be  a good  secu- 
rity against  many  of  the  snares  to  which  youth  are  ex- 
posed.” See  Augusti,  JIandbueh  d.  christi.  Arch  Sol.  ii, 
039  sq. ; Bbhmer,  Die  eh ristlich-ki rch liche  Alterihums- 
icissenschaf,  ii,  365  sq. ; Herzog,  Real-Bncyktop.  vii,  549 
sq.;  Zorn,  Ilistoria  Buel aristice  Infantium  (Berlin,  1736, 
8vo) ; Knapp,  Theology , § 144;  Doddridge,  Leciuris  on 
Divinity,  lect.  ccvii ; Neander,  Churih  History,  i,  311, 


INFANTICIDE 


577 


INFANTICIDE 


315;  ii,  319 ; iii,49G;  Smith,  A cccunt  of  the  Or.  Church, 
p.  1GI ; Bingham,  Orig.  Eecles.  bk.  xv,  cli.  iii,  § 7 ; Cole- 
mail,  Ancient  Christianity,  eh.  xxi,  § 8;  Neander,  Hist, 
of  Dogmas,  p.  242;  Gieseler,  Dogmengeschichie,  p.  542. 

Infanticide  is  the  term  for  the  act  or  practice  of 
murdering  infants,  which  was  very  general  among  the 
ancients,  and  which  still  prevails  among  rude  nations. 
The  Greeks  and  Romans,  with  all  their  high  notions  of 
civilization,  were  guilty  of  favoring  this  horrible  prac- 
tice by  legislative  enactments,  and  I’lato  and  Aristotle 
are  found  among  its  supporters.  Thus,  at  Sparta,  the 
law  required  that  a child,  immediately  after  birth,  was 
to  be  exhibited  to  the  authorities  for  inspection,  and  if 
its  look  was  not  wholesome,  or  its  limbs  crippled,  “it 
was  thrown  into  a deep  cavern  at  the  foot  of  the  moun- 
tain Taygetns;  and  it  was  said  that  this  law  had  a 
wholesome  effect,  for  it  made  women  with  child  very 
carcfid  as  to  their  eating,  drinking,  and  exercise,  and 
hence  they  proved  excellent  nurses.  In  the  other  Gre- 
cian republics  a similar  disregard  of  the  life  of  sickly 
infants  was  shown.”  Among  the  Romans  it  seems  to 
have  been  the  duty  of  the  father  to  decide  the  fate  of 
his  new-born  babe.  Among  the  Norse  a somewhat  sim- 
ilar ride  determined  the  life  of  the  infant.  If  weak,  or 
of  the  weaker  sex,  the  father  not  unfrequently  “disap- 
proved of  its  living,  and  it  was  exposed  to  die  by  wild 
beasts  or  the  weather.”  Among  the  barbaric  tribes, 
child-murder  prevails  most  extensively.  Thus  it  is 
general  throughout  the  whole  of  the  South-Sea  Islands, 
and  is  even  a regular  system  among  the  Fijians  (q.  v.). 
In  Yanu  Levu,  we  are  informed  by  a recent  authority, 
“the  extent  of  infanticide  reaches  nearer  two  thirds 
than  one  half  of  all  the  children  born.”  Among  the 
people  of  India,  especially  the  Hindus,  as  well  as  the 
Brahmans,  this  evil  prevailed  to  a very  great  extent, 
due  no  doubt,  in  a great  measure,  to  the  national  preju- 
dice of  remarriage  of  a widow  (compare  Max  Muller, 
Chips  from  a German  Workshop,  ii,  312).  But,  since 
the  rule  of  the  English,  laws  have  been  enacted  likely 
to  modify  the  practice,  if  not  to  check  it  altogether. 
“The  Rajputs,  it  is  said,  destroy  all  the  female  children 
but  the  first-born — a peculiar  custom,  due  to  its  being  a 
point  of  honor  with  a Rajput  to  nearly  ruin  himself  in 
the  marriage  feast  and  portion  of  his  daughter,  so  that 
he  could  not  afford  to  have  more  than  one.  The  Mo- 
hammedans were  inclined  to  the  same  practice,  but  ef- 
fected their  object  by  means  of  abortion.  In  New  Hol- 
land the  native  women  think  nothing  of  destroying  by 
compression  the  infant  in  the  womb,  to  avoid  the  trouble 
of  rearing  it  alive.  In  China  infanticide  is  supposed  to 
be  common,  the  chief  cause  being  said  to  be  the  right 
of  periodically  repudiating  their  wives  which  is  possess- 
ed by  Chinamen.  Some  statistics,  recently  published 
in  the  Esperance  of  Nancy,  indicate  the  fearful  extent 
to  which  life  is  lost  through  this  practice  prevailing  in 
so  vast  a population  as  that  of  China.”  Newcomb  ( Cy- 
clop. of  Missions,  p.  487)  says,  “ It  is  computed  from  au- 
thentic data  that  not  less  than  9000  children  are  exposed 
in  the  streets  of  Peking  every  year,  and  as  many  more 
in  the  provinces,  and  that  it  is  a part  of  the  duty  of  the 
police  to  carry  away  in  carts,  even,"  morning,  those  that 
have  been  exposed  at  night,  some  of  whom  are  yet  alive ; 
but  they  are  all  carried  to  a pit  icithovt  the  walls,  and 
buried  promiscuously .”  In  Japan,  poverty  of  the  parent 
is  deemed  an  admissible  excuse  for  the  destruction  of 
an  infant’s  life,  and  in  Greenland  the  infant  is  buried 
with  the  mother,  if  she  dies  in  or  shortly  after  child- 
birth. The  South  American  women  commit  the  same 
atrocity  as  the  poor  parents  of  Japan.  In  Africa  the 
Bushmen  follow  the  practices  that  we  detailed  as  prev- 
alent among  the  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans;  and  so 
frequent  has  been  the  practice  of  feeding  lions  with  in- 
fants’ flesh,  that  “it  has  greatly  increased  the  desire  of 
the  lion  for  human  flesh.”  “ In  Madagascar  the  fate  of 
the  infant  depends  upon  the  calculation  of  lucky  and 
unlucky  days.”  Among  the  North  American  Indians 
infanticide  has  also  prevailed,  and  does  still  prevail  very 
1Y.—0  o 


extensively.  The  lower  castes  of  the  Natchez  Indians 
on  the  lower  Mississippi,  Brinton  (Myths  of  the  New 
World  [N.Y.  1 8G8, 8vo],  p.  239)  says,  deliberately  mur- 
der their  own  children  on  the  funeral  pyre  of  a son  or 
chief  to  gain  admittance  to  a higher  caste.  But  as  a 
principal  reason  of  the  great  extent  of  infanticide,  es- 
pecially of  female  children,  among  savage  tribes,  Lub- 
bock (' Origin  of  Civilization , and  Primitive  Condition  of 
Man  [London,  1870, 8vo],  p.  93)  assigns  the  scarcity  of 
game,  and  the  fact  that  female  children  are  only  con- 
sumers, and  not  providers.  “Under  these  circumstances, 
female  children  became  a source  of  weakness  in  several 
ways.  They  ate,  and  did  not  hunt ; they  weakened 
their  mothers  when  young,  and  when  growing  up  were 
a temptation  to  surrounding  tribes.”  But  while  these 
reasons,  which  seem  quite  plausible  at  the  outset,  may 
have  helped  to  aggravate  and  spread  the  horrid  crime 
of  infanticide,  it  is  no  doubt  true,  after  all,  that  the 
practice  of  child-murder  is  due  to  a false  comprehension 
of  the  duties  and  relations  of  man  towards  his  Maker. 
Perverted  religious  teachings  have  done  much  to  foster 
this  great  crime  among  these  ignorant  human  beings, 
whom  Christianity  is  slowly  but  surely  convincing  of 
the  error  of  their  ways.  The  benign  effect  of  Christi- 
anity, which  was  so  marked  on  the  legislation  of  the 
Gneco-Roman  empire  in  the  treatment  of  woman,  and,  as 
a natural  consequence,  in  the  treatment  likewise  of  her 
offspring,  is  already  apparent  also  among  these  uncivil- 
ized tribes.  ( )ne  of  the  maxims  of  modern  civilization, 
or,  rather,  of  Christianity,  is  found  among  the  enact- 
ments of  the  first  Christian  emperor,  namely,  Constan- 
tine’s declaration  that  “the  killing  of  a child  by  its  fa- 
ther, which  the  Pompeian  law  left  unpunished,  is  one 
of  the  greatest  crimes”  (Sehaff,  Ch.  Hist . iii,  114).  “ In- 

stead of  encouraging  the  destruction  of  life,  modern  civil- 
ization abounds  in  every'  kind  of  machinery  for  preserv- 
ing it,  however  unsuccessful  the  attempt.  The  chief 
cause  which,  among  Christian  nations,  leads  to  infanti- 
cide, is  that  of  shame,  which,  however,  operates  only'  in 
the  case  of  the  child  being  illegitimate.  The  parents 
often  incur  the  risk  of  committing  the  crime  of  murder 
i to  avoid  social  disgrace.  In  order,  therefore,  to  appre- 
| ciate  the  force  of  the  checks  put  by'  the  law  on  the  ten- 
dency to  infanticide,  the  law  of  bastardy,  the  practice 
of  instituting  foundling  hospitals  (q.  v.).  and  the  kind 
and  degree  of  the  punishments  attending  any'  attempt 
more  or  less  direct  to  destroy'  the  child,  either  before  or 
after  birth,  require  to  be  taken  into  account.  The  crim- 
inal law  deals  with  the  cognate  offences  which  make  up 
infanticide  in  the  following  manner,  whether  the  child 
is  legitimate  or  illegitimate.  As  regards  the  procuring 
of  abortion,  every  woman  who  takes  poison  or  other 
noxious  thing,  or  uses  instruments  or  other  means  to 
procure  her  miscarriage,  is  guilty  of  felony',  and  liable 
to  penal  servitude  for  life,  or  not  less  than  three  years; 
and  so  is  any'  person  who  administers  poison,  or  uses  in- 
struments upon  the  woman  with  such  intent.  Who- 
ever supplies  drugs,  poison,  or  instruments  for  the  same 
purpose  is  guilty'  of  a misdemeanor,  and  liable  to  penal 
servitude  for  three  y'ears.  The  concealment  of  birth  is 
also  a criminal  offence.  Whoever,  after  a child  is  born, 
by'  any  secret  disposition  of  the  body',  endeavors  to  con- 
ceal its  birth,  is  guilty'  of  a misdemeanor,  and  liable  to 
imprisonment  for  two  years.  This  is  the  offence  which, 
perhaps,  is  most  frequently'  committed,  or  at  least  made 
the  subject  of  prosecution  in  such  cases,  as  the  attempt 
to  establish  the  larger  crime  of  murder  to  the  satisfac- 
tion of  a jury  is  frequently  foiled  by  the  secret  sympa- 
thy' shown  towards  the  mother,  who  is  presumed  to 
have  been  the  victim  of  seduction,  or  otherwise  wrong- 
ed" (Chambers).  But  one  of  the  greatest  difficulties 
we  are  beginning  to  encounter  in  our  own  day',  in  sev- 
eral Christian  lands,  among  which  our  own  is  perhaps 
the  most  prominent,  is  the  practice  of  abortion,  only  an- 
other form  of  infanticide,  so  general  among  the  so-called 
higher  classes  of  society.  It  is  really'  alarming  to  the 
Christian  man  to  see  how  extensive  this  great  sin  has 


INFANT  SALVATION 


INF.  JESUS,  DAUGHTERS  OF 


578 


become  in  this  country,  as  well  as  in  England.  We  do 
not  deign  to  speak  of  France,  for  that  country,  in  this 
respect  at  least,  can  scarcely  make  the  profession  of  be- 
ing a Christian  land.  Houses  for  abortion  are  among  us 
in  the  best  parts  of  the  largest  cities.  They  are  kept 
with  the  approval  of  our  citizens,  and  are  suffered  to 
further  a crime  which  must  sooner  or  later  prove  the 
greatest  curse  that  has  yet  befallen  ns.  Mr.  Greenwood, 
in  his  Seven  Curses  of  London,  speaks  of  “baby  farm- 
ing” as  “a  mischief  of  gigantic  extent.”  Recent  sta- 
tistics, and,  indeed,  the  unblushing  advertisements  of 
abortionists,  male  and  female,  in  the  daily  prints,  pro- 
claim the  equally  fearful  extent  of  the  crime  of  infanti- 
cide in  our  own  land.  It  is  high  time  that  the  clergy 
raise  their  voice  agaiust  this  varied  form  of  feticide, 
which  threatens  to  decimate  the  population  in  the 
higher  classes,  and  is  poisoning  the  moral  sense  of  out- 
wardly respectable  families.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Infant  Jesus,  Daughters  of  the  Congrega- 
tion of  the,  is  an  order  in  the  Romish  Church  which 
has  its  seat  at  Rome.  It  owes  its  origin  to  Anna  Mo- 
roni, a native  of  Lucca,  who,  having  come  to  Rome  en- 
tirely destitute,  succeeded  by  her  industry  and  economy 
in  securing  a competency.  In  more  advanced  years, 
her  charitable  feelings  prompted  her  to  establish  an  in- 
stitufion  where  poor  girls  should  be  instructed  in  such 
female  work  as  would  enable  them  to  earn  a livelihood. 
A priest,  Cosm us  Berlintani,  and  other  members  of  the 
clergy,  approved  of  her  plan,  and  afforded  her  much  as- 
sistance. By  their  joint  efforts  it  was  finally  establish- 
ed as  a regular  institution,  and  in  1673  pope  Clement 
X acknowledged  the  existence  of  the  society,  gave  it  by- 
laws, and  endowed  it  with  sundry  particular  privileges, 
under  the  appellation  of  “ Daughters  of  the  Infant  Je- 
sus.” The  number  of  the  “ Daughters”  allotted  to  each 
convent  was  fixed  at  33,  in  commemoration  of  the  num- 
ber of  years  Jesus  lived  upon  earth.  The  novitiate 
lasts  three  years;  the  sis- 
ters make  vows  of  poverty, 
chastity,  and  obedience. 
Such  as  may  wish  to  leave 
the  convent  are  allowed  to 
do  so  before  taking  the  vows, 
but,  in  that  case,  they  are  to 
leave  to  the  convent  all  they 
brought  to  it  at  their  admis- 
sion. Prayers  and  fasts  are 
strictly  enforced.  The  regu- 
lar habit  of  the  order  con- 
sists of  a wide,  dark  brown 
dress,  and  a white  hood. 
There  also  existed  in  former 
times  an  organization  whose 
members  bore  the  name  of 
“Sisters  of  the  good  Jesus;” 

■ these,  in  the  earlier  part  of 
the  15th  century,  were  trans- 
formed from  a lay  associa- 
Hnbit  of  the  Daughters  of  tion  into  a regular  order,  and 

JesuB°Ciety  °f  tl‘e  Iufant  S“Pl)0rted  themselves  by  suit- 
able avocations.  — Herzog, 

Real-  Kncyliopddie,  vi,  615. 

Infant  Membership.  See  Membership  in  the 
Christian  Church. 

Infant  Regeneration.  See  Regeneration. 

Infant  Salvation.  On  this  question  most  Chris- 
tians will  agree  with  the  following  statements:  “The 
great  consideration  which  leads  to  a solution  of  the  case 
of  persons  dying  in  infancy  is  found  in  Rom.  v,  1«, 
‘Therefore,  as  by  the  offense  of  one,  judgment  came 
upon  all  men  to  condemnation,  even  so,  by  the  right- 
eousness of  one,  the  free  gift  came  upon  all  men  unto 
justification  of  life.’  In  these  words,  the  sin  of  Adam 
ami  the  merits  of  Christ  are  pronounced  to  he  co-exten- 
sive;  the  words  applied  to  both  are  precisely  the  same, 
‘ judgment  came  upon  all  men,  ‘the  free  gift  came  upon 


I all  men'  If  the  whole  human  race  be  meant  in  the  for- 
mer clause,  the  whole  human  race  is  meant  in  the  latter 
1 also ; and  it  follows  that  as  all  are  injured  by  the  offence 
1 of  Adam,  so  all  are  benefited  by  the  obedience  of  Christ. 
Whatever,  therefore,  that  benefit  may  be,  all  children 
! dying  in  infancy  must  partake  of  it,  or  there  would  be 
a large  portion  of  the  human  race  upon  whom  the  ‘ free 
gift,’  the  effects  of ‘the  righteousness  of  one,’  did  not 
‘ come,’  which  is  contrary  to  the  apostle’s  words”  (Wat- 
| son.  Institutes,  ii,  57). 

“ Theologians  have  pursued  two  different  methods  in 
. treating  of  this  subject.  («.)  Some  are  content  with 
| saying  that  God  will  pardon  and  save  infants  on  account 
of  the  merits  of  Christ,  which  extend  to  all,  although 
they  may  not  have  believed  in  Christ  during  their  life- 
time; and  that  their  being  born  with  natural  depravity 
will  not  harm  them,  because  they  themselves  are  not  to 
blame  for  it.  These  writers  refer  to  Rom.  v,  15-17  for 
an  analogous  proceeding.  This  is  the  most  simple  and 
safest  view,  (b.)  Others,  misunderstanding  the  passage 
Mark  xvi.  16,  suppose  that  faith  in  Christ  is  an  indis- 
pensable requisite  for  salvation  in  all  men,  and  have 
therefore  (together  with  some  schoolmen)  embraced  the 
doctrine  of  a faith  of  infants,  which  they  have  variously 
explained  and  described  as  fdes  preesumpta,  implicit  a, 
per  baptismum  sine  verbo  (some  say  sine  cognitione)  in- 
fusa ; talis  affectio  in  infante  qualis  Deo  jdaceat.  The 
schoolmen  describe  it  as  dispositio  ad  justitiam.  But 
none  of  them  succeed  in  conveying  any  intelligible  idea. 
Nothing  is  said  in  the  N.  T.  about  such  a faith.  Faith 
always  presupposes  knowledge  and  power  to  exercise  the 
understanding.  Now,  since  children  have  neither  of 
these  requisites,  faith  cannot  be  ascribed  to  them;  nor, 
indeed,  disbelief  unless  the  word  is  used  very  improper- 
ly. The  mere  want  of  faith  is  not  damnable,  but  unbe- 
lief only,  or  the  guilty  destitution  of  faith.  Those  w ho 
have  adopted  this  view  have  thus  been  compelled  (as 
appears  from  the  preceding  remarks)  to  vary  the  idea 
which  is  uniformly  attached  to  the  word  faith  where 
adults  aTe  referred  to,  as  soon  as  they  speak  of  children, 
and  call  something  in  them  by  this  name  which  is  no- 
where else  so  denominated.  The  passage  Matt,  xviii, 
6,  does  not  bear  upon  this  point,  since  the  disciples  of 
Christ  are  there  meant.  Sec  Baptism.  From  the 
words  of  Christ, however,  Matt,  xix,  14, ‘Of  such  is  the 
kingdom  of  God,’  it  is  clear  that  he  considers  children 
as  belonging  to  his  kingdom.  And  this  is  enough” 
(Knapp,  Theology,  p.  4:13). 

Calvin,  who  laid  particular  stress  on  infant  baptism 
in  harmony  with  the  other  leading  reformers,  held  that 
“it  is  no  small  injustice  to  the  covenant  of  God  if  we  do 
not  rely  upon  it  as  sufficient  of  itself,  since  the  fulfilment 
depends  not  on  baptism  or  anything  adventitious.  It 
is  alleged  there  is  danger  lest  a child  who  is  sick,  and 
dies  without  baptism,  should  be  deprived  of  the  grace 
of  regeneration.  This  I can  by  no  means  admit.  God 
pronounces  that  he  adopts  our  infants  as  his  children  be- 
fore they  are  born,  when  he  promises  that  he  will  lie  a 
God  to  us,  and  to  our  seed  after  us.  This  promise  in- 
cludes their  salvation.  Nor  will  any  dare  to  offer  such 
an  insult  to  God  as  to  deny  the  sufficiency  of  his  prom- 
ise to  insure  its  own  accomplishment.  The  reception 
of  an  opinion,  that  all  who  happen  to  die  without  bap- 
tism are  lost,  makes  our  condition  worse  than  that  of 
the  ancient  Israelites,  as  though  the  grace  of  God  were 
more  restricted  now  than  it  was  under  law;  it  leads  to 
the  conclusion  that  Christ  came,  not  to  fulfil  the  prom- 
ises, but  to  abolish  them ; since  the  promise,  which  at 
that  time  was  of  itself  sufficiently  efficacious  to  insure 
salvation  before  the  eighth  day,  would  have  no  validity 
now  without  the  assistance  of  the  sign.”  "What  Calvin 
■ here  says  is  so  clear,  positive,  and  decided,  and  so  en- 
tirely free  from  the  least  ambiguity,  that  he  cannot  be 
misunderstood. 

Of  late  years  a controversy  has  arisen  in  the  “ Re- 
formed Church”  as  to  the  doctrines  which  she  really  pro- 
i mulgatcs  on  this  point,  and,  as  a result,  we  think  we 


INFEL 


579 


INFIDELITY 


may  justly  send  forth  the  following:  “We  still  hold  on 
to  the  old  faith  of  the  Church,  that  the  sacraments  are 
sealing  ordinances,  and  feel  as  confident  as  ever  that  God 
will  remain  true  to  his  promise,  and  save  the  children 
of  the  covenant,  though  they  should  die  without  its 
seal.”  Indeed,  it  seems  almost  impossible  for  the  “Re- 
formed Church”  to  take  any  other  ground,  since  one  of 
her  founders  and  great  theological  teachers,  Ursinus, 
held  not  only  in  the  case  of  infants,  but  also  in  the  case 
of  all  God’s  reasoning  creatures,  that  “ not  all  those  who 
are  not  baptized  are  excluded  from  the  grace  of  Christ ; 
for  not  the  want,  but  the  contempt  of  baptism,  excludes 
men  from  the  covenant  of  God,  made  with  the  faithful 
and  their  children.”  (Compare  articles  in  the  Ref.  Ch. 
Messenger , arch  4, 1868  ; March  11, 1868). 

One  of  the  greatest  arguments  against  the  salvation 
of  children  not  baptized,  which  has  been  advanced,  is, 
that  the  rite  of  baptism  is  essential  to  covenantsliip,  pro- 
vided the  parents  had  not  by  peculiar  circumstances 
been  prevented  from  attending  to  this  duty.  But  this 
point  does  not  seem  to  be  well  taken,  for  among  the  Is- 
raelites circumcision  did  not  admit  their  children  into 
covenant  with  God,  as  they  were  in  that  covenant  by 
birth.  Circumcision  was  merely  the  sign  or  seal  of  the 
covenant,  without  which  they  could  not  be  recognised 
as  being  of  the  people  of  God.  So  Christian  children  are 
included  in  the  covenant  with  Christ;  but  the  rite  of 
baptism  is  their  natural  sign  and  seal  of  that  covenant, 
ami  without  it  they  cannot  be  considered  as  belonging 
to  the  visible  followers  of  Christ.  See,  besides  the  au- 
thorities already  referred  to,  Wesley,  IForA's,  v,  377 ; 
Mercersb.  Rev.  1860,  p.  3S7  sq. ; Meth.  Quar.  Rev.  1859, 
p.632;  1864, p. 517  sq.,  552  sq. ; 1865, p.81;  1870,  p. 290; 
Fairchild,  A re  Infants  elected  (Tract  of  the  Presb.  Ch. 
No.  229) ; McConoughy,  A re  Infants  saved  (Presb.  Ch. 
Tract  No.  132) ; Children  in  Heaven  (Phila.  1865,  Presb. 
Board  ofPubl.),  p.352;  Christian  Examiner,  iv,  431  ; v, 
229,310;  Russell,  On  Infant  Salvation  (London,  1822, 
12mo);  Harris,  Hope  for  Salvation  of  all  dying  in  In- 
fancy (Loud.  1822, 8vo) ; Doddridge,  Lectures  on  Divin- 
ity, Lect.  168.  (J.H.W.) 

Infel.  See  Infula. 

Inferential  Theology.  Many  pious  minds  of 
the  Christian  Church  have  earnestly  opposed  the  opin- 
ion of  the  more  liberally  inclined  orthodox  theologians, 
that  the  Christian  theology  is  in  some  respects  “ infer- 
ential.” Liddon  adroitly  puts  this  question  in  his  Bamp- 
ton  Lecture  of  1866  (Our  Lord's  Divinity,  p.  441,  442) : 
“No  one  would  deny  that  in  all  ages  of  the  Church  the 
field  of  theology  has  been  the  scene  of  hasty,  unwar- 
rantable, and  misleading  inferences.  False  conclusions 
have  been  drawn  from  true  premises,  and  very  doubtful 
or  false  premises  have  been  occasionally  assumed,  if  not 
asserted  to  be  true.  . . . But  if  this  should  be  admitted 
it  would  not  follow  that  theology  is  in  no  sense  * infer- 
ential.’ Within  certain  limits,  and  under  due  guidance, 
‘inference’  is  the  movement,  it  is  the  life  of  theology. 
The  primal  records  of  revelation  itself,  as  we  find  them 
in  Scripture,  are  continually  inferential,  and  it  is  at 
least  the  business  of  theology  to  observe  and  marshal 
these  revealed  inferences,  to  draw  them  out,  and  to 
make  the  most  of  them.  The  illuminated  reason  of  the 
collective  Church  has  for  ages  been  engaged  in  study- 
ing the  original  materials  of  the  Christian  revelation. 
It  has  thus  shaped,  rather  than  created,  the  science  of 
theology.  What  is  theology  but  a continuous  series 
of  observed  and  systematized  inferences  respecting  God 
in  his  nature  and  his  dealings  with  mankind,  drawn 
from  premises  which  rest  upon  God’s  authority?  . . . 
If  we  reject  conclusions  drawn  professedly  from  the  sub- 
stance of  revelation,  but  really  enlarging  instead  of  ex- 
plaining it,  it  does  not  follow  that  we  should  reject  in- 
ferences which  are  simply  explanatory,  or  which  exhibit 
the  bearing  of  one  revealed  truth  upon  another.  This, 
indeed,  is  the  most  fruitful  and  legitimate  province  of 
inference  in  theological  inquiry.  Such  ‘ inference’  brings 
out  the  meaning  of  the  details  of  revelation.  It  raises 


{ this  feature  to  prominence,  it  throws  that  into  the  shade. 
It  places  language  to  which  a too  servile  literalism 
| might  have  attributed  the  highest  force  in  the  lower 
rank  of  metaphor  and  symbol;  it  elicits  pregnant  and 
momentous  truths  from  incidents  which,  in  the  absence 
of  sufficient  guidance  or  reflection,  may  have  been 
thought  to  possess  only  a secondary  degree  of  signifi- 
cance.” 

Inferior  Clergy,  “the  several  classes  of  assistants 
to  the  priesthood  in  the  ancient  churches.  They  were 
distinguished  by  the  title  a\£iporc5r?jrog  vmjpioia,  be- 
cause they  were  appointed  to  their  respective  offices 
without  the  imposition  of  hands.  Not  being  ordained 
at  the  altar,  nor  in  ecclesiastical  form,  they  were,  of 
course,  ineligible  for  the  exercise  of  any  of  its  sacerdotal 
functions ; indeed,  so  distinctly  drawn  was  the  line  be- 
tween them  and  the  superior  orders,  called  iepM/uevoi, 
holy,  that  they  were  strictly  forbidden  to  touch  the  sa- 
| cred  vessels,  or  so  much  as  to  enter  the  ‘ diaconieum’ — 
sanctuary.  The  inferior  clergy  of  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land includes  all  those  in  holy  orders  not  distinguished 
by  their  position  and  title  as  dignitaries  of  the  Church. 
The  offices  of  churchwarden,  verger,  sexton,  and  pew- 
opener  in  the  Church  of  England  correspond  in  general 
to  the  offices  of  the  inferior  clergy  of  ancient  times” 
(Eadie,  Eccles.  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v.).  See  Bingham,  Orig. 
Eccles.  book  i,  ch.  i.  See  Clergy. 

Infeudation  is  a term  in  law  for  the  placing  in 
possession  of  a fee  or  freehold  estate.  It  was  used  in 
ecclesiastical  law  to  designate  the  granting  of  tithes  to 
laymen,  and  the  temporary  possession  by  ecclesiastical 
associations  of  lay  property,  l'ope  Urban  VIII,  in  the 
year  1625,  declared  himself  against  all  infeudation,  and 
made  it  null  and  void  if  thereafter  contracted.  See 
Asehbach,  Kirchen-Lexikon,  iii,  450. 

Infidel  (uttigtoc,  2 Cor.  vi,  15 ; 1 Tim.  v,  18),  an  un- 
believer, as  elsewhere  rendered. 

Infidelity  etymologically  means  simply  leant  of 
belief.  By  common  usage  it  has  come  to  mean  (1),  in 
a restricted  sense,  a rejection  of  the  Christian  faith  ; and 
(2),  in  a wider  sense,  the  rejection  of  religion  generally. 
Thus  Atheists,  who  disbelieve  in  God,  and  Deists,  who 
believe  in  God,  but  reject  Christianity,  are  alike  called 
infidels. 

I.  Various  Forms  of  Infidelity. — Pearson,  in  his  ex- 
cellent prize  essay  on  Infidelity,  its  Asjiects,  Causes,  and 
A gertcies  (Lond.  18G0, 8vo),  classifies  the  forms  of  modern 
infidelity  as  follows:  1.  Atheism,  or  the  denial  of  the 
divine  existence ; 2.  Pantheism,  or  the  denial  of  the  di- 
vine personality;  3.  Naturalism,  or  the  denial  of  the 
divine  government ; 4.  Spiritualism,  or  the  denial  of  the 
divine  redemption.  To  these  may  be  added,  what  be- 
long more  properl)'  to  practical  than  to  theoretical  in- 
fidelity, 5.  Indifferentism,  or  the  denial  ol'  man’s  re- 
I sponsibility ; and,  6.  Formalism,  or  the  denial  of  the 
power  of  godliness.  Each  of  these  will  be  found  noticed 
in  this  Cyclopaedia  under  their  proper  heads.  Riddle 
( Hampton  Lecture  for  1852)  gives  the  following  survey 
of  the  various  phases  of  infidelity. 

(1.)  Rationalism. — “ Infidelity,  scarcely  fashioned,  and 
perhaps  hardly  conscious  of  its  own  true  character,  but 
' yet  really  existing  and  putting  forth  some  degree  of 
energy,  appears  in  the  form  of  a rationalistic  rejection 
of  Christian  doctrine.  In  this  form,  having  reference 
rather  to  the  substance  of  the  Gospel  than  to  its  proofs 
and  evidences,  infidelity  is  susceptible  of  such  diversi- 
fied modifications,  and  assumes  so  many  disguises,  that 
it  may  sometimes  escape  detection,  and  is  often  in  a dis- 
position to  repel,  with  logical  correctness,  the  charges 
which  may  be.  justly  brought  against  it  by  those  who 
perceive  its  real  tendency  and  nature.  The  faintest, 
but  still  dangerous  phase  of  this  rationalistic  spirit  con- 
sists in  the  habit  of  making  an  arbitrary  choice  and  se- 
lection of  dogmas  to  be  believed  by  those  who  profess- 
edly, and  with  more  or  less  sincerity,  accept  the  Chris- 
tian revelation  as  a whole.  From  this  unhealthy  state 


580 


INFIDELITY 


INFIDELITY 


of  mind  the  transition  is  too  easy  to  a systematic  eleva-  j 
Hon  of  reason  above  all  the  notices  of  revelation  ; that  is,  j 
to  rationalism  applied  to  the  whole  substance  of  the 
Gospel.  This  takes  place  when  men  systematically  re- 
quire that  revealed  truth  shall  be,  not  only  not  contra- 
dictory to  sound  reason,  which  is  justly  to  he  expected, 
hut  that  it  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the  independent^ 
notions  of  reason  or  deductions  of  the  understanding.” 
With  the  class  of  thinkers  who  have  this  tendency  most 
prominently  affiliates  Mr.  Leckey,  who  has  lately  pub- 
lished a History  of  Rationalism  (London,  2 vols.  8vo).  I 
Ilis  aim,  and  that  of  his  school,  evidently  is  to  reduce 
Christianity  to  a system  of  ethics,  and  deprive  it  of  its  j 
supernatural  character,  holding  that  the  contest  be-  | 
tween  the  champions  and  the  adversaries  of  religion  is  ' 
no  longer  to  be  fought,  as  it  was  in  the  16th  and  17th 
centuries,  upon  points  of  dogmatic  theology,  and  that 
the  dogmatic  forms  of  the  Protestant  churches  are  no 
longer  the  efficient  antagonists  of  the  Church  of  Rome.  ! 
2s or  are  the  free-thinkers  of  the  present  day  to  be  con-  ! 
founded  with  those  of  the  old  Voltairean  school  in  France,  I 
or  with  the  English  Deists  of  the  last  century.  Their  j 
system  is  no  longer  exclusively  negative  and  destruc-  j 
live,  but,  on  the  contrary,  intensely  positive,  and,  in  its 
moral  aspect,  intensely  Christian.  It  embraces  a scries 
of  essentially  Christian  conceptions — equality,  fraterni-  1 
tv,  the  suppression  of  war,  the  education  of  the  poor, 
the  abolition  of  slavery,  the  diffusion  of  liberty.  It  re- 
volves around  the.  ideal  of  Christianity,  and  represents  , 
its  spirit  without  its  dogmatic  system  and  its  supernat- 
ural narratives.  From  both  of  these  it  unhesitatingly  ! 
recoils,  while  deriving  all  its  strength  and  nourishment 
from  Christian  ethics.  Hardly  conscious  of  its  own 
character,  as  Mr.  Riddle  tells  us,  modern  Rationalists  go 
forth  under  such  leaders  as  Leckey,  and  declare  that 
“ the  idolatry  of  dogmas  will  pass  away,”  and  that 
“ Christianity,  being  rescued  from  sectarianism  and  in- 
tolerance that  have  defaced  it,  will  shine  by  its  own 
moral  splendor,  and,  sublimated  above  all  the  sphere  of 
controversy,  will  assume  its  rightful  position  as  an  ideal, 
and  not  a system : as  a person,  and  not  a creed.”  We 
see  tins  great  result,  which  Mr.  Leckey  succeeds  in  pic- 
lurinrj,  in  a somewhat  modified  form,  in  the  efforts  of 
the  free-thinkers  of  our  land,  especially  since  the  last  j 
meeting  of  the  “Free  Religious  Association,”  more  par- 
ticularly in  the  abolition  of  the  Sunday  laws  for  certain 
purposes  in  the  city  of  Boston,  inaugurated  first  by  the 
followers  of  Theodore  Parker.  See  Rationalism. 

(2.)  Spiritualism. — “ But  while  Rationalism  appears 
to  have  lost  much  of  its  former  reputation,  there  is  an- 
other method  of  arriving  at  the  same  end  which  finds 
acceptance  in  the  minds  of  many  persons  at  the  present 
day.  These  men  are  not  Rationalists;  they  are  so-call- 
ed Spiritualists.  They  do  not  deny  the  great  truths 
which  lie  on  the  very  surface  of  the  sacred  record;  nor 
do  they  disavow  the  fact  of  a divine  revelation,  and  so 
leave  man  entirely  to  the  dictates  of  his  reason,  and  the 
conclusions  of  his  understanding,  with  the  additional 
aid  to  be  derived  from  his  fellow-creatures,  all  unin- 
spired like  himself.  But  their  theory  is  this.  There 
is,  say  they,  a revelation  made  from  God  to  man,  but  it 
is  only  subjective,  inward,  to  the  already  existing  spir- 
itual life,  or  religions  consciousness  of  humanity;  the 
inspiration  by  which  this  life  or  consciousness  is  awak- 
ened is  common  to  every  man  who  will  wait  and  seek 
for  it;  and  as  to  religious  truth,  it  is  simply  that  which 
individuals,  or  the  mass  of  humanity,  so  far  as  their 
powers  have  been  heightened  by  the  divine  afflatus,  are 
able  to  apprehend.  According  to  this  system,  we  are 
not  to  suppose  that  the  Gospel  announces  positive  spir- 
itmd  facts,  such,  for  example,  a3  that  which  is  usually 
understood  by  the  atonement;  but  it  propounds  ideas 
which  may  be  differently  received  by  different  men,  and 
will  possess  a power  and  value  according  to  the  spirit- 
ual mould  into  which  they  may  be  cast.  Now,  in  this 
Spiritualism,  let  it  be  observed,  there  is  nothing  original 
or  new.  This  system  is,  in  substance,  only  one  of  those 


phases  of  unbelief  which  have  appeared  and  disappeared 
at  intervals  from  the  earliest  ages  of  Christianity,  but 
which,  thanks  he  to  God,  have  never  yet  succeeded  in 
making  the  Gospel  obsolete,  and  in  robbing  mankind  of 
the  knowledge  of  salvation.  It  is,  however,  fraught 
with  danger,  and  its  power  of  mischief  arises,  in  no 
small  degree,  from  its  capability  of  disguise.  It  can  put 
on  the  semblance  of  Christian  truth  ; it  can  comply  with 
any  form  of  words,  even  the  soundest  form,  in  creeds 
and  confessions  drawn  up  with  the  greatest  fidelity  and 
care.”  (Comp.  Hardwick,  Christ  and  other  Masters,  i, 
5 sq.)  See  Spiritualism. 

(3.)  Naturalism. — “ The  mind  that  revolts  at  mys- 
tery, or  religious  truth  which  we  cannot  know  independ- 
ently of  a direct  and  outward  revelation,  is  also  shock- 
ed and  repelled  by  miracle.  Accordingly  we  find  that 
infidelity  sometimes  assumes  the  form  of  naturalism,  or 
an  assault  upon  the  Bible  chiefly  with  reference  to  its 
supernatural  historic  elements.  According  to  some,  the 
miracles  of  Scripture  were  really  wrought,  and  present- 
ed all  the  appearances  described  in  the  sacred  record; 
but  they  were  miraculous  only  to  the  apprehension  of 
ignorant  persons,  who  did  not  understand  how  they  were 
performed.  F ar  more  elaborate,  and  perhaps  more  plau- 
sible, has  been  an  attempt  of  recent  date  to  exhibit  all 
the  miraculous  and  supernatural  features  of  the  Gospel 
history  under  the  character  of  an  aggregate  of  myths 
or  legends.  Such  is  the  hypothesis  of  Strauss.  See 
Naturalism. 

(4.)  Deism. — “This  is  a class  of  anti-Christian  princi- 
ples well  known  as  having  prevailed  in  England  chiefly 
in  the  last  century.”  Infidelity  in  this  form  no  longer  ap- 
pears as  mere  philosophy,  or  speaks  in  the  accents  of  calm 
or  lofty  speculation.  It  includes,  indeed,  some  attempts 
at  historical  and  verbal  criticism,  and  makes  some  show 
of  wisdom  suited  to  the  age  in  w hich  it  flourished ; but, 
for  the  most  part,  it  opens  its  mouth  in  blasphemy,  and 
proclaims  aloud  the  sentiments  of  an  evil  and  ungodly 
heart.  For,  whether  we  consider  the  ignorant  misrep- 
resentations of  Paine,  the  sneers  of  Gibbon,  or  the  scoff- 
ings  of  Voltaire,  it  is  impossible  not  to  perceive  that 
their  opposition  to  the  Gospel  is  founded  upon  moral  re- 
pugnance and  distaste.  Their  writings  are  a clear  echo 
of  that  rebellious  sentiment,  ‘We  will  not  have  this 
man  to  reign  over  us’  (Luke  xix,  14).  And,  so  far  as 
the  school  of  infidelity  continues  to  subsist,  we  find  its 
adherents,  for  the  most  part,  among  men  of  depraved 
moral  habits,  of  low  taste  and  uncultivated  intellect,  rev- 
elling very  often  in  the  haunts  of  profligacy  and  vice, 
or  filled  with  political  rancor,  and  struggling  against  the 
restraints  of  all  laws,  human  and  divine.”  (Comp.  Wa- 
terland,  IForfo,  v,  4 sq. ; Hardwick,  Christ  and,  other  Mas- 
ters, i,  38  sq.)  See  Deism. 

(5.)  Pantheism. — “ Some  men  there  are  who,  while 
they  reject  Christianity,  and  know  not  the  true  God, 
yet  retain  the  impression  of  a presiding  or  universal  In- 
tellect ; but,  at  the  same  time,  that  which  they  thus  rec- 
ognise as  mental  energy,  or  the  divine  essence,  or  even 
a divine  being,  they  regard  as  more  or  less  identical  with 
nature,  conceiving  that,  in  some  way  or  other,  either 
God  is  the  universe,  or  the  universe  is  God.  This  is 
Pantheism  in  its  twofold  aspect.”  See  Pantheism. 

(6.)  A theism. — “ There  appears  to  be  only  one  step  lowr- 
er  to  which  even  the  boldest  infidelity  can  descend,  and 
that  is  A theism,  properly  so  called.  The  Atheist  is  some- 
times satisfied  with  taking  a merely  negative  position. 
Without  attempting  to  prove  that  there  is  no  God,  he 
simply  affirms  that,  to  his  apprehension,  there  is  no  suf- 
ficient proof  of  his  existence,  or  that  the  evidences  of 
his  being  and  his  operation,  to  which  many  men  appeal, 
are  to  his  mind  no  evidence  whatever,  and  therefore  he 
holds  himself  excused  from  believing  that  there  is  a 
God,  and  from  accepting  the  consequences  which  must 
follow  from  such  admission,  respecting  the  creation  of 
the  world,  the  responsibility  of  man,  and  the  prospect  of 
immortality  hereafter.  But  this  position,  dreary  as  it 
is,  by  no  means  forms  a resting-place  of  this  infidel  phi- 


INFIDELITY 


581 


INFINITY 


losophy.  Atheism,  even  in  the  present  day,  is  positive 
and  dogmatic  in  its  teachings.  It  professes  to  account 
for  the  absence  of  a Deity,  and  to  prove  that  there  is  no 
God,  or,  at  least,  that  there  is  none  engaged  in  present 
operation  on  the  universe  around  us."  See  Atheism. 

II.  Causes  of  Infidelity. — The  chief  source  of  infidel- 
ity is  undoubtedly  a moral  one.  “ It  is  evident,”  re- 
marks Pearson  (Modern  Infidelity , pt.  ii,  ch.  i),  “ that 
unbelief,  generally  speaking,  can  originate  in  only  one 
of  two  sources;  either  in  a deficiency  of  evidence,  or  in 
a state  of  mind  and  heart  on  which  the  clearest  and 
strongest  evidence  has  no  power.  The  eauses  of  infi- 
delity, we  are  persuaded,  are  more  ethical  than  intellect- 
ual. This  persuasion  is  greatly  strengthened  by  the 
perusal  of  some  of  the  productions  of  our  modern  infidel 
writers.”  “Nothing  ean  be  more  contemptible,”  says 
professor  Garbett  (Mod.  Philosoph.  Infidelity,  p.  5),  “ than 
the  argumentative  resources  of  modern  infidelity.  It 
does  not  reason , it  only  postulates ; it  dreams  and  it  dog- 
matizes. Nor  can  it  claim  invent  ion."  This  testimony 
is  true.  Indeed,  we  venture  to  assert,  that  the  general 
strain  of  argument  brought  to  bear  against  Christianity 
by  its  modern  assailants  would  not  be  tolerated  for  a 
moment  within  the  province  of  purely  literary  criticism. 
The  strong  determination  to  withstand  everything  in 
the  shape  of  reasonable  evidence  contrasts  very  much 
with  the  feeble  argumentation  by  which  many  of  the 
truths  of  religion  are  set  aside.  Be  it  atheism  or  pan- 
theism, naturalism  or  spiritualism,  indifferentism  or  for- 
malism, the  will  has  much  to  do  with  it.  Moral  evi- 
dence is  the  appropriate  proof  of  moral  truth.  All  mor- 
al evidence  is  cumulative ; but,  however  strong  it  may 
be,  it  is  never  irresistible.  An  indocile  mind  can  ward 
it  off.  The  existence  of  God  [see  God]  does  not  admit 
of  demonstration,  but  moral  certainty.  See  Evidence. 
So  the  personality  of  God,  though  much  more  rational 
than  pantheism,  does  not  admit  of  mathematical  dem- 
onstration. Christianity  is  based  upon  evidence.  The 
reason  why  evidence  is  necessary  is  to  be  found  in  our 
moral  constitution  as  rational,  discriminating,  account- 
able agents;  and  in  the  fact  that,  from  the  existence  of 
evil  in  the  world,  we  were  otherwise  liable  to  deception 
in  reference  to  our  highest  interests.  It  eould  never  be 
a man’s  duty  to  believe  in  a revelation  claiming  to  it- 
self the  authority  of  heaven,  unless  that  revelation  bore, 
legibly  on  its  front,  heaven’s  signature,  or  was  in  some 
way  attended  with  heaven’s  evidencing  power.  The 
evidence  that  attests  the  truth  of  Christianity,  vast,  va- 
ried, and  of  great  cumulative  power  though  it  be,  is  not, 
however,  irresistible.  No  man  is  warranted  to  expert 
it  to  be  so.  Faith  is  a moral  act,  and,  while  resting  on 
a strong  groundwork  of  proof,  it  must  have  some  difli- 
eidties  over  which  to  triumph.  Origen,  speaking  of  the 
difficulties  in  the  Bible  revelation,  and  of  those  in  the 
revelation  of  nature,  says:  “In  both  we  see  a sclf-con- 
eealing,  self-revealing  God,  who  makes  himself  known 
only  to  those  who  earnestly  seek  him ; in  both  are  found 
stimulants  to  faith,  and  occasions  for  unbelief.”  “ There 
is  fight  enough,”  says  Pascal,  “ for  those  who  sincerely 
wish  to  see,  and  darkness  enough  for  those  of  an  oppo- 
site description.”  Mr.  Newman  tells  us  it  “supersedes 
the  authoritative  force  of  outward  miracles  entirely”  to 
say  that  “ a really  overpowering  miraculous  proof  would 
have  destroyed  the  moral  character  of  faith.”  This, 
however,  is  not  argument,  but  a foolish  dogmatic  asser- 
tion. The  Christian  miracles  are  of  “ a convincing  and 
stupendous  character,”  and  yet  not  so  overpowering  as 
the  axiom  that  a whole  is  greater  than  its  part ; and  we 
lack  sagacity  to  perceive  where  lies  the  contradiction 
between  these  statements.  Evidence  is  obligatory  on 
man,  not  because  it  is  overpowering  or  irresistible,  but 
because  it  preponderates. 

Besides  the  moral  ground,  there  are  certain  subordi- 
nate causes  constantly  operating,  e.  g.  Speculative  Phi- 
losophy (q.  v.)  ; corruptions  of  Christianity  [see  Chris- 
tianity ; Romanism];  religious  intolerance  [see  Tol- 
eration ] ; and,  more  especially,  the  connection  of 


Church  and  State.  In  our  own  country,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  fact  that  religion  is  a matter  of  private  opinion 
has  brought  upon  us  the  charge,  from  the  other  side  of 
the  Atlantic,  that  in  our  corporate  capacity  we,  by  our 
peculiar  position  on  this  point,  permit  the  inference  that 
we  “distinctly  affirm  that  no  religion  is  true,  but  that 
all  theological  systems  are  human  speculations  upon  a 
doubtful  matter,  more  or  less  plausible  in  themselves, 
and  containing  a greater  or  less  amount  of  truth,  but  no 
one  of  which  is  so  probable  that  we  will  act  in  a mat- 
ter so  important  and  legislate  upon  the  theory  of  its 
truth.”  It  is  held  by  sceptics  that  it  is  not  possible  to 
prove  any  other  theoretical  justification  of  toleration,  or 
religious  equality,  or  whatever  else  the  system  which 
treats  religion  as  a matter  of  private  opinion  is  called, 
than  one  which  is  founded  on  the  principle  that  religion 
is  matter  of  opinion ; in  other  words,  that  the  best  of  all 
re  ligions  is  doubtful.  The  mere  non-acceptance  of  the 
Koran  or  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Creed,  after  notice  of 
their  contents,  appears  to  them  to  amount  to  a denial 
of  the  truth  of  the  claims  of  Mohammed  and  the  pope 
respectively.  They  argue  thus  from  the  position  that  a 
nation  cannot  remain  on  neutral  grounds  in  a matter  in 
which  it  is  theoretically,  and  practically  too,  impossible 
to  be  neutral,  and  that  the  18th  century  theories  of  gov- 
ernment, which  led  the  founders  of  our  Constitution  to 
think  otherwise,  are  fundamentally  wrong  (The  Motion, 
1 8G8,  p.  345).  See  Cn  urch. 

For  further  information,  see  the  different  articles  re- 
ferred to  above,  and  also  the  articles  Evidences  of 
Christianity;  Parker;  Positivism;  Unrelief.  See 
also  Garbett,  Modern  Philosophical  Infidelity ; Rogers, 
Reason  and  Faith  ; Rogers,  Eclipse  of  Faith ; Riddle, 
Natural  History  of  Infidelity  (Bamptou  Lect.  for  1852, 
8vo);  Thomson,  Aids  to  Faith  (Lond.  1861,  8vo);  Mor- 
gan, Christianity  and  Modern  Infidelity  (London,  1854, 
12mo);  Pearson,  Prize  Essay  on  Infidelity  (Lond.  1 800, 
21st  edition)  ; London  Review , No.  5.  rrt.  i ; Ch.  of  Eng- 
land  Review,  Oct.  1854,  art.  iii ; Whavion,  Theism  and  the 
Modern  Sceptical  Theories  (Phila.  1859, 12mo) ; Saintes, 
History  of  Rationalism  (Lond.  1849, 8vo);  Christian  Re- 
view, iii,  134;  North  British  Review,  xv,  18;  Princeton 
Review,  xii,  31 ; Nelson,  Cause  and  Cure  of  Infidelity  (N. 
Y.  12mo);  Godwin,  Philosophy  of  A theism  (Loud.  1853); 
Van  Mildert,  Boyle  Lectures  on  the  Rise  and  Progress  of 
Infidelity  (Lond.  1820,  2 vols.  8vo) ; Hurst,  Hist,  of  Ra- 
tionalism (2d  cd.  N.  Y.  I860, 8vo);  Hagenbacli,  German 
Rationalism  (N.  York,  1865);  Farrar,  Crit.  Hist,  of  Free 
'Thought  (N.  Y.  1863, 8vo) ; Evangel.  Quart.  Rev.  1865,  p. 
1G2  sq. ; Mercersb.  Rev.  July,  1869 ; Meth.  Quart.  Review, 
1863,  p.  687  sq. ; 1864,  p.  682  sq. 

Infinite.  See  Attributes  ; God. 

Infinity,  without  end  or  limit,  the  negation  of  finite : 
uTTtipov,  “ un-endlich.” 

I.  The  Indefinite. — Besides  the  definite  consciousness 
of  which  logic  formulates  the  laws,  there  is  also  an  in- 
definite consciousness  which  cannot  be  formulated.  Be- 
sides complete  thoughts,  and  besides  the  thoughts 
which,  though  incomplete,  admit  of  completion,  there 
are  thoughts  which  it  is  impossible  to  complete,  and 
yet  which  are  real,  in  the  sense  that  they  are  normal 
affections  of  the  intellect.  Positive  knowledge,  how- 
ever extensive  it  may  become,  does  not  and  never  can 
till  the  whole  region  of  possible  thought.  At  the  utter- 
most reach  of  discovery  there  arises,  and  must  ever 
arise,  the  question,  What  lies  hevoml?  Regarding  sci- 
ence as  a gradually  increasing  sphere,  we  may  say  that 
every  addition  to  its  surface  does  but  bring  it  into  wider 
contact  with  surrounding  nescience.  There  is  always 
something  which  forms  alike  the  raw  material  of  defi- 
nite thought,  and  remains  after  the  definiteness  which 
thinking  gave  to  it  has  been  destroyed  (H.  Spencer, 
First  Principles,  p.  21  sq.,  88,  90  sq.).  This  vague  ele- 
ment in  thought,  which  is  ineradicable,  Spencer  consid- 
ers to  be  the  groundwork  of  the  feeling  of  awe,  and  of 
natural  religion.  It  is  the  infinite  in  this  sense,  the  at- 
tempt to  conceive  which  involves  a eontradietion  in 


INFINITY 


582  INFINITY 


terms;  which  can  only  be  believed  to  exist,  but  can 
never  become  an  object  to  consciousness.  “If  all 
thought  is  limitation;  if  whatever  we  conceive  is,  by 
the  verv  act  of  conception,  regarded  as  finite,  the  infi- 
nite, from  a human  point  of  view,  is  merely  a name  for 
the  absence  of  those  conditions  under  which  thought  is 
possible”  (Mansell’s  Hampton  Lectures , p.  48 ; comp.  p. 
30,  63,  80,  118;  see  esp.  notes  on  p.  48  and  51,  4th  ed.). 

II.  The  Infinite  as  an  Interminable  Series. — Aristotle 
mentions  five  ways  (Phys.  A use.  203,  b.  15)  in  which 
the  notion  of  the  uttuoov  is  attained  : (a)  From  the  un- 
limited duration  of  time;  ( b ) from  the  possibility  of 
perpetually  subdividing  magnitudes;  (c)  from  the  con- 
tinuance of  growtli  and  decay  in  nature;  (d)  from  the 
fact  that  limitation  is  always  relative,  and  never  abso- 
lute; and  ( e ),  “the  strongest  proof  of  all,”  from  the  ina- 
bility to  conceive  a limit  to  number,  magnitude,  and 
space.  Any  given  moment  of  time  is  both  preceded 
and  succeeded  by  another,  and  that  by  another  without 
end.  Any  magnitude  admits  of  multiplication  or  divi- 
sion, and  the  multiples  or  parts  are  again  capable  of 
multiplication  or  division,  respectively,  without  limit. 
Any  effect  in  nature  is  the  result  of  a cause  which,  again, 
is  the  effect  of  another  cause  in  an  endless  regress;  and, 
conversely,  every  effect  is  itself  the  cause  of  some  other 
effect,  and  this,  in  its  turn,  is  the  cause  of  another  effect, 
and  so  on  in  an  interminable  progress.  Time,  space, 
and  causation  thus  exhibit  infinity  in  the  form  of  a 
straight  line  or  series  of  terms  without  beginning  or 
end.  The  characteristics  of  this  mode  of  the  infinite 
are:  (1)  that  it  is  purely  negative,  i.  e.  is  the  mere 
process  of  passing  beyond  limitations;  (2)  that  it  pos- 
tulates the  perpetual  recurrence  of  limitations  as  its 
condition ; and  (3)  that,  as  an  endless  series,  it  is  inca- 
pable of  being  thought  out,  it  is  always  possible  and 
never  actual,  it  cannot  be  said  to  exist,  but  always  to  be 
in  the  act  of  coming  into  existence. 

It  follows  from  this  that,  if  infinity  is  an  idea  realiza- 
ble by  the  mind,  it  must  be  conceived  in  some  other  I 
way  than  as  a linear  series;  it  must  be  capable  of  an 
expression  which  is  at  once  definite,  and  yet  preserves  ; 
the  true  character  of  infinity.  Mathematical  science 
does  this  by  the  summation  of  an  infinite  series  in  a , 
finite  expression,  and  manipulates  both  the  infinite  and  : 
the  infinitesimal  as  terms  having  a definite  meaning  in 
calculation.  The  possibility  of  conceiving  the  infinite  ' 
as  complete  may  be  seen  more  easily  from  the  consider- 
ation that  any  object  which  we  can  see,  handle,  imag-  | 
ine,  conceive,  without  any  difficulty,  e.  g.  a fruit,  or  a i 
stone,  is  really  the  sum  of  an  infinite  number  of  parts 
into  which  it  may  be  divided,  an  infinite,  therefore,  * 
which  is  not  merely  coming  into  existence,  but  actually  • 
exists  here  and  now.  Regarded,  too,  under  the  aspect 
of  a term  in  the  line  of  causation,  any  object  in  nature 
sums  up  an  infinite  series  in  itself.  For,  as  an  effect,  it 
is  the  result  of  all  previous  causes,  and,  as  a cause,  the 
germ  of  all  succeeding  effects. 

These  summations  of  the  serial  infinite,  whether 
achieved  by  the  formulas  of  mathematics  or  presented 
as  complete,  in  every  portion  of  space,  in  every  period 
of  time,  and  in  every  object  in  nature,  are  anticipations 
of  a higher  form  of  infinity  which  is  revealed  by  the 
mind  of  man. 

III.  The  Spiritual  Infinite  (infinitum  rationis,  infini- 
tum actu,  bAoj'  T(Xtiov)  differs  from  the  former,  not  so 
much  in  excluding  as  including  the  limit  or  boundary 
of  which  it  is  the  negation,  i.  e.  as  not  limited  from 
without  and  perpetually  passing  beyond  the  limit,  but 
as  limiting  itself.  As  the  natural  or  mathematical  in- 
finite is  represented  by  the  line,  so  the  rational  or  spir- 
itual infinite  finds  its  appropriate  symbol  in  the  circle, 
i.  e,  the  line  which  is  without  beginning  or  end,  and  at  , 
the  same  time  is  limited  at  every  point  by  itself.  It  is 
thus  at  once  absolutely  unlimited,  and  yet  absolutely 
definite.  The  transition  from  II  to  III  may  be  illus- 
trated by  the  mathematical  definition  of  a straight  line 
as  the  chord  of  an  infinite  circle.  Such  is  the  infinite 


as  exhibited  in  (a)  the  thought  and  ( b ) the  volition  of 
man. 

(а)  Consciousness,  and  thought  as  a mode  of  con- 
sciousness, involve  the  opposition  of  the  subject  which 
thinks  and  the  object  about  which  it  thinks.  As  a con- 
dition of  thinking  at  all,  the  mind  must  set  its  thought 
over  against  itself  as  not  itself,  and  conversely,  as  the 
condition  of  an  object  being  thought  of  at  all,  it  must 
be  presented  as  distinct  from  the  mind  which  thinks  of 
it.  Here,  then,  is  a limitation  or  barrier  which  consti- 
tutes what  is  called  “the  finiteness”  of  the  human  un- 
derstanding. The  thinker  is  limited  and  conditioned 
by  his  thought,  the  thought  is  limited  and  conditioned 
by  the  thinker.  But,  as  it  is  possible  to  present  any 
object  to  thought,  it  is  competent  for  the  thinker  to  pre- 
sent himseffi as  the  object  about  which  he  thinks,  i.  e.  to 
be  at  once  the  subject  which  thinks  and  the  object 
which  is  thought  about.  This  capabilit}'  of  self-con- 
sciousness, of  which,  so  far  as  can  be  ascertained,  the 
lower  animals  are  destitute,  constitutes  at  once  the  pride 
and  the  degradation  of  man,  is  a source  at  once  of  his 
best  and  his  worst  actions.  Here  tve  have  the  analogue 
of  the  line  returning,  as  the  circumference  of  a circle, 
into  itself.  The  limitation  of  the  thinker  by  the  object 
thought  of  is  as  real  as  before,  only  it  is  a limitation  of 
himself  by  himself:  he  is  conditioned,  as  before,  but 
self-conditioned,  i.  e.  infinite.  See  Personalty. 

(б)  The  same  infinity  appears  in  free  will.  As  free, 
a man  does  ail  action  which  originates  absolutely  with 
himself.  But  this  action  has  a permanent  effect  on  his 
character,  and  thus  determines  the  quality  of  the  next 
action.  This  new  action  is  also  originated  absolutely 
by  the  free  agent,  but  the  agent,  himself  is  modified, 
conditioned,  limited,  by  the  previous  action.  The  agent 
has  thus  his  freedom  limited  and  defined,  and  increas- 
ingly so  with  every  fresh  action,  but  he  is  limited  by 
that  of  which  lie  is  himself  the  absolute  originator.  He 
is  finite  (limited,  conditioned)  and  at  the  same  time  in-* 
finite  (unlimited,  unconditioned),  because  he  is  sell-con-, 
ditioned.  See  Liberty. 

It  is  in  this  sense,  rather  than  in  that  of  infinite  mag-, 
nitude,  that  infinity  is  an  attribute  of  God.  Sec  The- 
ism. 

IV.  Relation  to  the  Finite. — It  follows  from  what  has 
been  said  above  (a)  that,  although  the  essence  of  infin- 
ity is  the  transcendence  of  every  limitation,  yet  that 
the  finite  and  limited,  even  when  excluded  (I  and  II), 
is  postulated  as  a condition  of  infinity,  and  that  in  the 
higher  forms  of  infinity  the  limit  is  included,  or,  rather, 
imposed  from  within.  Even  in  the  sense  of  the  indefi- 
nite residuum  of  thought,  definite  thinking  is  presup- 
posed as  the.  condition  of  our  becoming  conscious  of  the 
vague  element  beyond.  The  serial  infinite,  again,  as 
the  mere  process  of  transcending  every  given  term,  pos- 
tulates the  perpetual  recurrence  of  terms  to  transcend: 
dirupov,  says  Aristotle,  fxiv  ovv  io~\v  ov  icara  nooiv 
Xapfidrovotv,  aiti  tl  \a(3th>  i'erriv  (Phys.  A use. 
207,  a.  7) — “The  quantitative  infinite  is  that  which  al- 
ways has  something  outside  it,  i.  e.  a term  ‘not  yet 
reached.’”  The  spiritual  infinite,  lastly,  as  the  self-de- 
termination of  thought  and  volition,  is,  ex  vi  termini , a 
process  of  generating  at  every  step  the  finite  and  limit- 
ed. (b)  On  the  other  hand,  it  would  be  a reversal  of 
the  true  order  to  conceive  the  infinite  to  be,  as  its  ety- 
mology suggests,  the  mere  negation  of  the  finite,  and, 
as  such,  a secondary  and  derived  idea.  On  such  a sup- 
position it  becomes  impossible  to  explain  how  we  be- 
come conscious  of  limitation  at  all.  How,  it  may  be 
asked,  do  we  know  that  thought  is  finite  if  we  know 
nothing  first  of  the  infinite?  How  is  the  consciousness 
of  limitation  possible  except  as  the  negation  of  what  is 
unlimited?  The  infinite  is  thus,  as  the  condition  of  the 
finite,  prior  and  positive;  the  finite,  as  the  limit  ex- 
cluded, included,  self-imposed  by  the  infinite,  posterior 
and  negative. 

The  relation  of  Goo,  as  the  Infinite,  to  the  world  and 
the  soul,  as  finite,  is  considered  elsewhere.  But,  unless 


INFIRMERER 


583  INGHAM 


(a)  be  borne  in  mind,  the  logical  result  is  deism,  and  if 

( b ) be  neglected,  pantheism. 

V.  Infinity  as  symbolized  in  the  Imagination. — We  find 
the  attempt  to  picture  the  infinite  to  the  imagination 
among  non-European  nations  in  the  form  of  a state  of 
vacancy  immediately  preceding  creation.  The  constit- 
uents of  the  image  are  generally  air  and  water.  The 
image  of  mere  air  or  mere  water  would  be  no  realizable 
image  at  all,  because  involving  no  distinction.  Ilut  in 
the  contrast  of  the  two  we  get  that  minimum  of  defi- 
niteness which  renders  the  image  possible.  A beauti- 
fully pure  representation  of  the  imagined  infinite  is 
found  in  the  sacred  books  of  the  aborigines  of  Guate- 
mala (Max  Muller's  Chips,  i,  33d).  It  is  as  follows: 
“There  was  a time  when  all  that  exists  in  heaven  and 
earth  was  made.  All  was  then  in  suspense;  all  was 
calm  and  silent.  All  was  immovable,  all  peaceful,  and 
the  vast  space  of  the  heavens  was  empty.  There  was 
no  man,  no  animal,  no  shore,  no  trees;  heaven  alone 
existed.  The  face  of  the  earth  was  not  to  be  seen ; 
there  was  only  the  still  expanse  of  the  sea  and  the 
heaven  above.  Divine  beings  were  on  the  waters  like 
a growing  light.  Their  voice  was  heard  as  they  medi- 
tated and  consulted,  and  when  the  dawn  arose  man 


the  civil  courts. — Landon,  Manual  of  Councils,  p.  267. 
(J.  II.  W.) 

Ingen  is  the  name  of  a deified  Japanese,  who  is  said 
to  have  arrived  about  1653  in  Japan,  whither  his  zeal 
for  the  religion  of  Siaka  had  led  him.  lie  was  at  first 
regarded  by  the  Japanese  only  as  a saint,  but  at  a sea- 
son of  an  excessive  drought  they  came  to  him  and  be- 
sought his  prayers  (kith)  to  avert  the  judgment  of 
heaven;  and  the  rain  descending  in  mighty  torrents 
shortly  after  the  offering  up  of  Ingen’s  prayer,  the  peo- 
ple thought  him  no  longer  earthly,  and  deified  him. — 
Kaempfer,  Hist.  Japan,  Append. ; Broughton,  Bibliothe- 
ca Hist.  Sac.  i,  533.  (I.  II. W.) 

Ingham,  Eexjamix,  was  bom  at  Ossett,  Yorkshire, 
June  11,1712.  He  received  a liberal  education, first' at 
Batley  school,  and  afterwards  at  Queen’s  College,  Ox- 
ford, where,  in  1733,  he  joined  himself  with  Charles  and 
John  Wesley,  the  founders  of  Methodism.  In  1735  he 
received  episcopal  ordination,  and  in  the  same  year  em- 
barked with  Mr.  Wesley  for  Georgia.  He  remained  in 
Georgia  about  two  years,  visited  Carolina  and  Pennsyl- 
vania, and  then  returned  to  England,  where,  soon  after 
his  arrival,  he  accompanied  Wesley  to  llerruhut,  the 


appeared.”  Here  we  have  as  the  constituents  of  the 
image  “empty  heaven,”  or  space,  and — which  is  intro- 
duced as  if  not  at  all  contradictory  to  the  statement 
that  “heaven  alone  existed" — the  “still  expanse  of  the 
sea.”  [Compare  this  with  the  account  in  holy  Scrip- 
ture, where  the  constituents  of  the  image  are  (1 ) “ dark- 
ness upon  the  face  of  the  abyss,”  and  (2)  the  surface  of 
the  waters,  with  the  Divine  Spirit  hovering  between 
the  two,  and  calling  light  into  being.]  In  the  Hindu 
account  the  creative  spirit  is  represented  as  rowing 
about  in  a boat  upon  the  ocean. 

We  have  substantially  the  same  image  of  the  infinite 
lying  at  the  back  of  the  Greek  mind.  But  there  are 
two  differences.  (1)  The  double  image  is  dismembered. 
The  symbol  of  Thales  is  water  alone ; of  Anaximander, 
the  void  in  suspense;  of  Anaximenes,  the  atmosphere; 
of  Xenophanes,  the  globe  of  the  sky.  (2)  The  infinite 
is  not  pictured  as  preceding  the  emergence  of  finite 
things,  but  as  underlying  the  process  of  nature,  as  it  is 
ordinarily  known. 

The  Egyptian  symbol  of  the  serpent  with  his  tail  in 
his  mouth  approaches  the  mathematical  representation 
of  infinite  length.  — Blunt,  Theol.  Diet,  i,  346  sq.  See 
Journal  of  Speculative  Philosophy,  July,  1870. 

Infirmerer  is  the  name  of  the  person  who  “had 
the  care  of  the  sick-liouse,  in  which  Lent  and  fasts  were 
not  observed,  had  charge  of  the  burial  of  the  dead,  pro- 
vided physicians  and  tendance,  and  flesh -meat.” — 
Walcott,  Sacred  .1  rckceology,  p.  329. 

Infralapsarians.  See  Sublapsariaxs. 

Infula  (otherwise  called  mitra,  ari^avog,  corona, 
KidaniQ,  diadema,  and  r/npo,  tiara ) is  a cap  worn,  since 
the  16th  century,  by  the  bishops  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
and  Greek  churches,  as  one  of  the  insignia  of  their  epis- 
copal office.  See  Mitre. 

Ingathering,  Least  of.  See  Festivals;  Tab- 
erx acres,  Feast  of. 

Ingelheim  is  the  name  of  a place  at  which  a church 
council  ( Concilium  I hgelenhei incuse)  was  held  June  27, 
948,  under  the  presidency  of  the  Roman  legate  Marinus, 
and  in  the  presence  of  the  German  emperor  Otlio  I and 
king  Louis  Outremer.  The  principal  business  of  the 
council  was  the  punishment  of  Hugo,  count  of  Paris, 
whom  it  excommunicated.  It  also  decided  that  no  lay- 
man should  present  a clerk  to  a church,  or  dispossess 
him,  without  the  consent  of  the  bishop;  that  the  whole 
of  Easter  week  be  kept  as  a festival,  and  the  three  days 
following  Whitsunday;  that  St.  Mark’s  day  be  kept 
with  fasting  on  account  of  the  great  litany,  as  was  done 
on  the  rogation  days  preceding  the  feast  of  the  Ascen- 
sion; and  that  all  differences  as  to  tithe  be  settled  in  an 
ecclesiastical  synod,  instead  of  granting  this  puwer  to 


seat  of  the  Moravians,  and  so  strong  became  his  sympa- 
thies with  this  excellent  people  that  he  could  not  sacri- 
fice his  attachment  to  them  when  the  Methodists  revolt- 
ed from  the  disorders  of  the  Fetter-lane  society.  He 
went  into  Yorkshire,  and  with  incredible  itinerant  la- 
bors, assisted  by  Moravian  companions,  he  founded  there 
what  may  be  called  a Moravian  form  of  Methodism. 
Preaching  stations  were  established  throughout  the 
county  and  in  neighboring  shires.  At  Birstal  he  took 
Nelson  publicly  by  the  hand,  and  gave  him  liberty  to 
speak  in  all  his  chapels.  The  Wesleys,  Whitefield,  Ma- 
dan,  and  Romaine  often  preached  for  his  societies,  and 
they  seem  to  have  been  generally  recognised  by  the 
Methodistic  leaders  as  a legitimate  branch  of  the  great 
revival,  notwithstanding  Wesley’s  people,  in  Yorkshire 
experienced  many  vexations  from  the  eccentricities  of 
individual  preachers,  who  retained  some  of  the  London 
Moravian  follies.  Within  a few  years,  the  number  of. 
“Inghamite”  societies  reached  eightv-four.  In  1741, 
Mr.  Ingham  married  Lady  Margaret  Hastings,  sister  to 
the  earl  of  Huntingdon,  on  which  he  removed  his  resi- 
dence from  Ossett  to  Abberford,  where  he  continued  to 
reside  till  his  death.  After  forming  this  connection,  he 
was  so  far  from  relaxing  in  his  exertions  to  preach  the 
Gospel  that  he  greatly  extended  the  sphere  of  his  oper- 
ations, and,  in  process  of  time,  may  be  said  to  have  evan- 
gelized all  the  surrounding  country.  Ingham  was  ad- 
mitted to  Wesley’s  Conference  in  Leeds,  but  the  precise 
relation  of  his  societies  to  the  Wesleyan  body  was  never 
defined.  He  had  his  own  Conferences  also,  and  at  one 
of  them  was  elected  a general  overseer,  or  bishop.  Lady 
Huntingdon,  who  could  not  approve  all  the  disciplinary 
features  of  his  societies,  attempted  to  promote  a union 
of  them  with  Wesley,  and  she  sent  Whitefield  to  New- 
castle-npon-Tvne  to  meet  the  Wesleys  for  consultation 
on  the  subject.  Charles  assented,  but  John  declined  the 
overture,  very  wisely,  as  events  demonstrated.  In  1759, 
Ingham  read  “Sandeman's  Letters  on  Theron  and  As- 
pasio,”  and  “ Glas’s  Testimony  of  the  King  of  Martyrs.” 
These  works  produced  such  an  impression  on  his  mind 
that  he  deputed  two  of  his  preachers  to  Scotland  to  learn 
more  fully  the  views  of  their  authors.  At  Edinburgh 
they  met  Sandeman,  and  Glas  at  Dundee.  They  re- 
turned converts  to  the  Sandemanian  principles,  and  im- 
mediately spread  discontent  and  disputes  among  the  so- 
cieties. Ingham’s  authority  could  not  control  the  par- 
tisan violence  which  soon  broke  out.  lie  called  in  the 
assistance  of  his  friends.  The  countess  of  Huntingdon 
wrote  them  letters.  Whitefield  used  his  influence  to 
save  them.  Romaine  hastened  into  Yorkshire,  but  could 
not  restrain  them.  Ingham  attempted  to  excommuni- 
cate the  disturbers,  but  it  was  an  endless  task.  The 
whole  order  was  wrecked  and  sunk.  Thirteen  societies 


INGIIAMITES  584  INHERITANCE 


only  remained  from  more  than  eighty  which  had  flour- 
ished with  all  the  evidences  of  permanent  prosperity. 
Ingham  seems  to  have  remained  a Sandemanian  (q.  v.), 
and  developed  his  views  in  a Treatise  on  the  Faith  and 
Hope  of  the  Gospel  (1762).  He  died  in  1772.  Some  of 
his  societies  came  to  the  I\  esleyan  Church  ; others  unit- 
ed with  the  Daleites  (q.  v.),  a class  of  Scotch  Independ- 
ents. See  Jones,  Christian  Biography , s.  v. ; Stevens, 
History  of  Methodism,  i,  300  sq. 

Inghamites.  See  Ingham. 

Inglis,  Charles,  D.D.,  was  born  in  Ireland  about 
the  year  1733.  Emigrating  to  America,  he  took  charge 
of  the  Free  School  at  Lancaster,  Pa.,  previous  to  1759, 
and,  having  decided  to  enter  the  ministry,  he  went  to 
England  for  ordination.  The  Society  for  the  Propaga- 
tion of  the  Gospel  appointed  him  their  missionary  at 
Dover,  Del.,  his  Held  embracing  the  whole  county  of 
Kent,  including  three  churches.  In  1 7G5  he  became 
assistant  minister  of  Trinity,  N.  Y.,  and  catechist  to  the 
negroes.  He  received  the  honorary  degree  of  A.B.  from 
King’s  College,  N.  Y.,  in  1707,  and  those  of  A.M.  and  D.D. 
from  Oxford  some  years  later.  In  the  progress  of  the 
L’evolution  he  took  part  with  the  Tories,  and  in  1775  re- 
plied to  Paine’s  Common  Sense  by  a pamphlet  which  was 
so  offensive  to  the  “ Sons  of  Liberty”  that  they  commit- 
ted it  to  the  flames.  When  preaching  before  Washing- 
ton, in  the  same  year,  he  refused  to  omit  the  prayer  for 
the  king  and  the  royal  family.  After  the  Declaration 
of  Independence  he  caused  his  church  to  be  closed,  and 
took  refuge  in  Flushing,  then  in  possession  of  the  Loy- 
alists. lie  wras  chosen  rector  of  Trinity,  N.  Y.,  in  1777. 
In  consequence  of  many  losses  during  the  Devolution 
and  political  differences,  he  found  it  necessary  finally  to 
leave  the  country.  In  1783  he  sailed  for  Nova  Scotia, 
of  which  province  he  was  appointed  bishop  in  1787.  as 
the  first  colonial  bishop  of  the  Church  of  England.  He 
resided  at  Halifax  till  his  death,  Feb.,  1816.  lie  pub- 
lished Tiro  Sermons ; and  a Letter  in  ‘‘Hawkins’s  His- 
torical Notices.”  — Sprague,  *1  muds,  v,  186;  Allibone, 
Diet . o f A ut hors,  i,  932. 

Inglis,  John,  D.D.,  a Scotch  divine,  was  born  about 
1763.  He  was  at  one  time  minister  at  the  Grayfriars’ 
Church,  Edinburgh,  lie  died  in  1834.  Inglis  is  known 
as  the  author  of  a Defence  of  Ecclesiastical  Establish- 
ments, find  a Vindication  of  the  Christian  Faith  (Edinh. 
1830,  8 vo.). — Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  i,  932;  Black- 
wood's Magazine,  xxv,  109. 

Ingraham,  Ira,  a Congregational  minister,  was  born 
at  Cornwall,  Vt.,  Dec.  1,  1791,  and  educated  at  Middle- 
bury  College,  where  he  graduated  in  1815.  After  teach- 
ing for  a time  in  the  Southern  States,  pursuing  also  his 
theological  studies,  he  was  licensed  to  preach  by  the 
Addison  Association,  Addison,  Vt.,  June  3,  1819.  May, 
1820,  the  Congregational  church  in  Orvill  was  offered 
him,  and  he  was  there  ordained  June  20,  1820.  lie  left 
this  charge  in  1822,  and  after  supplying  several  pulpits, 
and  acting  for  a brief  period  as  agent  of  the  “ Presbyte- 
rian Education  Society,”  he  was  installed  over  the  Con- 
gregational church  at  West  Bradford,  Mass.,  Dec.  1,1824. 
In  1830  he  removed  to  IJrandon,  Vt.,  and  in  1834  left  that 
place  to  assume  the  duties  of  secretary  of  the  Vermont 
Domestic  Missionary  Society.  In  1839  he  accepted  a 
call  to  the  Presbyterian  ( ’hurch  at  Lyons,  N.  Y.  In  1848 
he  returned  to  the  church  at  Brandon,  but  declined  to 
be  reinstalled,  and  finally  accepted  the  position  as  agent 
of  the  “ Society  for  the  promotion  of  Collegiate  and  The- 
ological Education  at  the  West,”  making  Western  New 
York  liis  field  of  labor.  He  retired  from  this  and  all 
other  active  work  five  years  after,  and  only  preached  at 
intervals.  lie  died  April  9, 1864.  Ingraham  published 
five  sermons  (1826, 1843, 1844, 1847.  and  1848) Congre- 
gational Quarterly,  1 864,  p.  3U0.  (J.  1 1 . W.) 

Ingram,  Uoiskht,  an  English  divine,  was  born  at 
Beverley,  in  Yorkshire,  March  9,  1726-7.  lie  was  edu- 
cated at  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cambridge,  where  he 
obtained  a fellowship,  and  took  his  degrees  in  arts.  Ilis 


first  preferment  was  to  the  perpetual  curacy  of  Brid- 
liurst,  in  Kent,  next  the  living  of  Orston,  in  Notting- 
hamshire, and  afterwards  the  vicarages  of  Wormington 
and  Boxted,  in  Essex.  He  died  in  1804.  Mr.  Ingram 
wrote  A View  of  the  Great  Events  of  the  Seventh  Plague, 
or  Period  when  the  Mystery  of  God  shall  be  finished: — 
Accounts  of  the  Ten  Tribes  of  Israel  being  in  America  ; 
originally  published  by  Manasseh  ben-Israel : — A Com- 
plete and  Uniform  Explanation  of  the  Prophecy  of  the 
Seven  Vials  of  Wrath.  See  Hook , Eccles.  Biography ; 
Iloefer,  Nouv,  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  871.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Ingulphus,  the  celebrated  abbot  of  Crovland,  long 
considered  the  author  of  the  I/isforia  Monasterii  Cray- 
landensis,  is  supposed  to  have  been  born  at  London  about 
A.D.  1030.  According  to  the  account  of  his  life  in  his 
history,  he  was  educated  at  the  University  of  Oxford. 
He  was  a great  favorite  of  Edgitha,  the  wife  of  Edward 
the  Confessor,  and  visited  duke  William  of  Normandy 
at  his  own  court  in  1051.  About  1064  he  went  on  a pil- 
grimage to  the  Holy  Land.  On  his  return  he  entered 
the  monastery  of  Fontanelle,  in  Normandy,  and  there 
remained  till  1076,  when  he  was  invited  to  England  by 
the  Conqueror,  and  made  abbot  of  Croyland.  lie  died 
Dec.  17,  1109.  The  IJistoria  Monasterii  Croylandensis 
was  printed  by  Savile  (in  the  collection  Snipt.)  at  Lon- 
don in  1596,  and  in  a more  complete  edition  by  Gale 
( Iter.  Angl.  Script.  Vet.'),  at  Oxford,  in  1684.  An  Eng- 
lish translation  of  it  was  furnished  by  Kilcy  in  Bohn’s 
Antiquarian  Library.  “Some  writers,  even,  of  the  last 
century  questioned  the  entire  genuineness  of  the  book, 
though  scepticism  did  not  often  proceed  further  than  the 
hypothesis  of  interpolations  by  a later  writer;  but  in 
1826,  the  late  Sir  Francis  Palgrave,  in  an  article  in  the 
Quarterly  Review,  endeavored  to  prove  that  the  whole 
so-called  history  was  little  better  than  a novel,  and  was 
probably  the  composition  of  a monk  in  the  13th  or  14th 
century.  Ilis  conclusions  have  been,  on  the  whole,  al- 
most universally  adopted.”  See  Chambers,  Cyclopaedia, 
v,  579 ; Wetzer  mid  Welte,  Kirchen-Lexikon,  v,  625  sq. 
(J.  H.  W.) 

Inheritance  (frequently  p3H,  che'lek,  a u portion" 
or  providential  bestowment ; but  properly  and  usually 
some  form  of  the  verbs  U™"1,  yarash,  to  possess; 
nachal,  to  possess  \ K\i)povopeui,  to  get  by  lot).  God,  as 
the  creator  of  the  earth,  gave  it  to  man  to  be  held,  cul- 
tivated, and  enjoyed  (Gen.  i,  28  sq.;  Psa.  cxv,  16;  Ec- 
cles. v,  9);  not  to  any  favored  portion  of  our  race,  but  to 
the  race  itself— to  man  as  represented  by  our  great  pri- 
mogenitor, to  whom  the  use  of  the  divine  gift  was  first 
graciously  vouchsafed.  The  impression  which  the  orig- 
inal gift  of  the  earth  was  calculated  to  make  on  men, 
the  Great  Donor  was  pleased,  in  the  ease  of  Palestine, 
to  render,  for  his  own  wise  purposes,  more  decided  and 
emphatic  by  an  express  re-donation  to  the  patriarch 
Abraham  (Gen.  xiii,  14  sq.).  Many  years,  however, 
elapsed  before  the  promise  was  fulfilled.  Meanwhile  the 
notices  which  we  have  regarding  the  state  of  property 
in  the  patriarchal  ages  are  few  and  not  very  definite. 
The  products  of  the  earth,  however,  were  at  an  early  pe- 
riod accumulated  and  held  as  property.  Violence  in- 
vaded the  possession : opposing  violence  recovered  the 
goods.  War  soon  sprang  out.  of  the  passions  of  the 
human  heart.  The  necessity  of  civil  government  was 
felt.  Consuetudinary  laws  accordingly  developed  the  m- 
selves.  The  head  of  the  family  was  supreme.  His  will 
was  law.  The  physical  superiority  which  lie  possessed 
gave  him  this  dominion.  The  same  influence  would  se- 
cure its  transmission  in  the  male  rather  than  the  female 
line,  lienee,  too,  the  rise  of  the  rights  of  primogeni- 
ture. In  the  early  condition  of  society  which  is  called 
patriarchal,  landed  property  had  its  origin,  indeed,  but 
could  not  be  held  of  first  importance  by  those  who  led  a 
wandering  life,  shifting  continually,  as  convenience  sug- 
gested, from  one  spot  to  another.  Cattle  were  then  the 
chief  property  (Gen.  xxiv,  35).  But  land,  if  held,  was 
held  on  a freehold  tenure;  nor  could  any  other  tenure 


INHERITANCE 


585 


INHERITANCE 


have  come  into  existence  til!  more  complex  and  artifi- 
cial relations  arose,  resulting,  in  all  probability,  from  the 
increase  of  population  and  the  relative  insufficiency  of 
food.  When  Joseph  went  down  into  Egypt,  he  appears 
to  have  found  the  freehold  tenure  prevailing,  which, 
however,  he  converted  into  a tenancy  at  will,  or,  at  any 
rate,  into  a conditional  tenancy.  Other  intimations  are 
found  in  Genesis  which  confirm  the  general  statements 
which  have  juso  been  made.  Daughters  do  not  appear 
to  have  had  any  inheritance.  If  there  are  any  excep- 
tions to  this  rule,  they  only  serve  to  prove  it  by  the 
special  manner  in  which  they  are  mentioned.  Thus  Job 
is  recorded  (xlii,  15)  to  have  given  his  daughters  an  in- 
heritance conjointly  with  their  brothers.  How  highly 
the  privileges  conferred  by  primogeniture  were  valued 
may  be  learned  from  the  history  of  Jacob  and  Esau.  In 
the  patriarchal  age  doubtless  these  rights  were  very 
great.  See  Birthright.  The  eldest  son,  as  being  by 
nature  tbe  first  fitted  for  command,  assumed  influence 
and  control,  under  liis  father,  over  the  family  and  its  de- 
pendents ; and  when  the  father  was  removed  by  death, 
he  readily,  and  as  if  by  an  act  of  Providence,  took  his 
father’s  place.  Thus  lie  succeeded  to  the  property  in 
succeeding  to  the  headship  of  the  family,  the  clan,  or  the 
tribe.  At  first  the  eldest  son  most  probably  took  exclu- 
sive possession  of  his  father’s  property  and  power;  and 
when,  subsequently,  a division  became  customary,  he 
would  still  retain  the  largest  share — a double  portion, 
if  not  more  (Gen.  xxvii,  25,  29,  40).  That  in  the  days 
of  Abraham  other  sons  partook  with  the  eldest,  and  that, 
too,  though  they  were  sons  of  concubines,  is  clear  from 
the  story  of  Hagar’s  expulsion  : “ Cast  out  (said  Sarah) 
this  bondwoman  and  her  son;  for  the  son  of  this  bond- 
woman  shall  not  be  heir  with  my  son,  even  with  Isaac” 
(Gen.  xxi,  10).  The  few  notices  left  us  in  Genesis  of 
the  transfer  of  property  from  hand  to  hand  are  interest- 
ing, and  bear  a remarkable  similarity  to  what  takes  place 
in  Eastern  countries  even  at  this  day  (Gen.  xxi,  22  sq.  j 
xxiii,  9 sip).  The  purchase  of  the  Cave  of  Machpclah 
as  a family  burying-] dace  for  Abraham,  detailed  in  the 
last  passage,  serves  to  show  the  safety  of  property  at 
that  early  period,  and  the  facility  with  which  an  inher- 
itance was  transmitted  even  to  sons’  sons  (comp.  Gen. 
xlix,  29).  That  it  was  customary,  during  the  father’s 
lifetime,  to  make  a disposition  of  property,  is  evident 
from  Gen.  xxiv,  35,  where  it  is  said  that  Abraham  had 
given  all  he  had  to  Isaac.  This  statement  is  further 
confirmed  by  ch.  xxv,  5,  G,  where  it  is  added  that  Abra- 
ham gave  to  the  sons  of  his  concubines  “ gifts,  sending 
them  away  from  Isaac  his  son,  while  he  vet  lived,  east- 
ward unto  the  east  country.”  Sometimes,  however,  so 
far  were  the  children  of  unmarried  females  from  be- 
ing dismissed  with  a gift,  that  they  shared,  with  what 
we  should  term  the  legitimate  children,  in  the  father’s 
property  and  rights.  See  Concubine.  Thus  Dan  and 
Naplitali  were  sons  of  Bilhah,  Rachel's  maid,  whom  she 
gave  to  her  husband,  failing  to  bear  children  herself. 
.So  Gad  and  Asher  were,  under  similar  circumstances, 
sons  of  Zilpali,  Leah’s  maid  (Gen.  xxx,  2-14).  In  the 
event  of  the  eldest  son’s  dying  in  the  father’s  lifetime, 
the  next  son  took  his  place ; and  if  the  eldest  son  left  a 
widow,  the  next  son  made  her  his  wife  (Gen.  xxxviii,  7 
sq.),  the  offspring  of  which  union  was  reckoned  to  the 
first-born  and  deceased  son.  Should  the  second  like- 
wise die,  the  third  son  took  his  place  (Gen.  xxxviii,  11). 
While  the  rights  of  the  first-born  were  generally  estab-  j 
lished  and  recognised,  yet  were  they  sometimes  set  aside 
in  favor  of  a younger  child.  The  "blessing  of  the  father 
or  the  grandsire  seems  to  have  been  an  act  essential  in 
the  devolution  of  power  and  property— in  its  effects  not 
unlike  wills  and  testaments  with  us;  and  instances  are 
not  wanting  in  which  this  (so  to  term  it)  testamentary 
bequest  set  aside  consuetudinary  laws,  and  gave  prece- 
dence to  a younger  son  (Gen.  xlviii,  15  sq.).  .Special 
claims  on  the  parental  regards  were  acknowledged  and 
rewarded  by  special  gifts,  as  in  the  case  of  Jacob’s  dona- 
tion to  Joseph  (Gen.  xlviii,  22).  In  a similar  manner, 


bad  conduct  on  the  part  of  the  eldest  son  (as  well  as  of 
others)  sidijectcd  him,  if  not  to  the  loss  of  his  rights  of 
property,  yet  to  the  evil  influence  of  his  father’s  dying 
malediction  (Gen.  xlix,  3) ; while  the  good  and  favored, 
though  younger  son,  was  led  by  the  paternal  blessing  to 
anticipate,  and  probably  also  to  reap,  the  richest  inher- 
itance of  individual  and  social  happiness  (Gen.  xlix,  8- 
22).  Sec  Heir;  Adoption. 

The  original  promise  made  to  Abraham  of  the  land 
of  Palestine  was  solemnly  repeated  to  Isaac  (Gen.  xxvi, 
3),  the  reason  assigned  being  because  “Abraham  obeyed 
my  voice  and  kept  my  charge,  my  commandments,  my 
statutes,  and  my  laws,”  while  it  is  expressly  declared 
that  the  earlier  inhabitants  of  the  country  were  dispos- 
sessed and  destined  to  extermination  for  the  greatness 
of  their  iniquity.  The  possession  of  the  promised  land 
was  embraced  by  Isaac  in  his  dying  benediction  to  Ja- 
cob (Gen.  xxviii,  3, 4).  to  whom  God  vouchsafed  (Gen. 
xxviii,  15;  see  also  xxxv,  10, 11)  to  give  a renewed  as- 
surance of  the  destined  inheritance.  That  this  dona- 
tion, however,  was  held  to  be  dependent  for  the  time 
and  manner  of  its  fulfilment  on  the  divine  will,  appears 
from  Gen.  xxxiii,  18,  where  Jacob,  on  coming  into  the 
land  of  Canaan,  bought  for  a hundred  pieces  of  money 
“a  parcel  of  a field,  at  the  hand  of  the  children  of  Ha- 
mor.”  Delayed  though  the  execution  of  the  promise 
was,  confidence  never  deserted  the  family  of  Abraham, 
so  that  Joseph,  dying  in  the  land  of  Egypt,  assured  his 
brothers  that  they  would  be  visited  by  God  and  placed 
in  possession  of  Canaan,  enjoining  on  them,  in  this  con- 
viction, that,  when  conducted  to  their  possession,  they 
should  carry  his  bones  with  them  out  of  Egypt  (Gen.  1, 
25).  A promise  thus  given,  thus  repeated,  and  thus  be- 
lieved, easily,  and  indeed  unavoidably,  became  the  fun- 
damental principle  of  that  settlement  of  property  which 
Moses  made  when  at  length  he  had  effected  the  divine 
will  in  the  redemption  of  the  children  of  Israel.  The 
observances,  and  practices  too,  which  we  have  noticed 
as  prevailing  among  the  patriarchs,  would,  no  doubt, 
have  great  influence  on  the  laws  which  the  Jewish  leg- 
islator originated  or  sanctioned.  The  laud  of  Canaan 
was  divided  among  the  twelve  tribes  descended  through 
Isaac  and  Jacob  from  Abraham.  The  division  was  made 
by  lot  for  an  inheritance  among  the  families  of  the  sons 
of  Israel,  according  to  the  tribes,  and  to  the  number  and 
size  of  families  in  each  tribe.  The  tribe  of  Levi,  how- 
ever, had  no  inheritance ; but  forty-eight  cities  with 
their  suburbs  were  assigned  to  the  Levitcs,  each  tribe 
giving  according  to  the  number  of  cities  that  fell  to  its 
share  (Numb,  xxxiii,  50;  xxxiv,  1;  xxxv,  1).  The 
inheritance  thus  acquired  was  never  to  leave  the  tribe 
to  which  it  belonged;  every  tribe  was  to  keep  strictly 
to  its  own  inheritance.  An  heiress,  in  consequence,  was 
not  allowed  to  marry  out  of  her  own  tribe,  lest  property 
should  pass  by  her  marriage  into  another  tribe  (Numb, 
xxxvi,  G-9).  This  restriction  led  to  the  marriage  of 
heiresses  with  their  near  relations : thus  the  daughters 
of  Zelophchad  “were  married  unto  their  father’s  broth- 
er’s sons,”  “ and  their  inheritance  remained  in  the  tribe 
of  the  family  of  their  father”  (ver.  11,12;  comp.  Joseph. 
Ant.  iv, 7,  5).  In  general  cases  the  inheritance  went  to 
sons,  the  first-born  receiving  a double  portion,  “for  he  is 
the  beginning  of  his  father’s  strength.”  If  a man  had 
two  wives,  one  beloved,  the  other  hated,  and  if  the  first- 
born were  the  son  of  her  who  was  hated,  he  neverthe- 
less was  to  enjoy  “ the  right  of  the  first-born”  ( Dent, 
xxi,  15).  If  a man  left  no  sons,  the  inheritance  passed 
to  his  daughters;  if  there  was  no  daughter,  it  went  to 
his  brothers;  in  case  there  were  no  brothers,  it  was  giv- 
en to  his  father’s  brothers;  if  his  father  had  no  brothers, 
it  came  into  possession  of  the  nearest  kinsman  (Numb, 
xxvii,  8).  The  land  was  Jehovah’s,  and  could  not,  there- 
fore, be  permanently  alienated.  See  Husbandry.  Ev- 
ery fiftieth  year,  whatever  land  had  been  sold  returned 
to  its  former  owner.  The  value  and  price  of  land  nat- 
urally rose  or  fell  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  years 
there  were  to  elapse  prior  to  the  ensuing  fiftieth  or  jubi- 


INHIBITION 


586 


INK 


lee  year.  If  he  who  sold  the  laiul,  or  a kinsman,  could 
redeem  the  land  before  the  year  of  jubilee,  it  was  to  be 
restored  to  him  on  his  paying  to  the  purchaser  the  value 
of  the  produce  of  the  years  remaining  till  the  jubilee. 
Houses  ill  villages  or  unwalled  towns  might  not  be  sold 
forever;  they  were  restored  at  the  jubilee,  and  might  at 
anv  time  be  redeemed.  If  a man  sold  a dwelling-house 
situated  in  a walled  city',  he  had  the  option  of  redeem- 
ing it  within  the  space"  of  a full  year  after  it  had  been 
sold ; but  if  it  remained  unredeemed,  it  belonged  to  the 
purchaser,  and  did  not  return  to  him  who  sold  it  even  at 
the  jubilee  (Lev.  xxv,  8,  23).  The  Levites  were  not  al- 
lowed to  sell  the  land  in  the  suburbs  of  their  cities, 
though  they  might  dispose  of  the  cities  themselves, 
which,  however,  were  redeemable  at  any  time,  and  must 
return  at  the  jubilee  to  their  original  possessors  (Lev. 
xxvii,  16).  See  Lanj>. 

The  regulations  which  the  laws  of  Moses  established 
rendered  wills,  or  a testamentary  disposition  of  (at  least) 
landed  property,  almost,  if  not  quite  unnecessary ; we 
accordingly  lind  no  provision  for  anything  of  the  kind. 
Some  difficulty  may  have  been  now  and  then  occasioned 
when  near  relations  failed ; but  this  was  met  by  the  tra- 
ditional law,  which  furnished  minute  directions  on  the 
point  (Mishna,  Baba  Bathru,  iv,  3,  c.  8,  9).  Personal 
property  would  naturally  follow  the  land,  or  might  be 
bequeathed  by  word  of  mouth.  At  a later  period  of  the 
Jewish  polity  the  mention  of  wills  is  found,  but.  the  idea 
seems  to  have  been  taken  from  foreign  nations.  In 
princely  families  they  appear  to  have  been  used,  as  we 
learn  from  Josephus  (Ant.  xiii,  16, 1 ; xvii,  3,  2 ; War,  ii, 
2, 3);  but  such  a practice  can  hardly  suffice  to  establish 
the  general  use  of  wills  among  the  people.  In  the  New 
Testament,  however,  wills  are  expressly  mentioned  (Gal. 
iii,  15;  Heb.  ix,  17).  Mieliaelis  ( Commentaries , i,  431) 
asserts  that  the  phrase  (2  Sam.  xvii,  23 ; 2 Kings  xx,  1) 
“set  thine  house  in  order’’  has  reference  to  a will  or  tes- 
tament. But  his  grounds  are  by  no  means  sufficient, 
the  literal  rendering  of  the  words  being,  “give  com- 
mands to  thy  house.”  The  utmost  which  such  an  ex- 
pression could  inferentially  be  held  to  comprise  in  re- 
gard to  property  is  a dying  and  final  distribution  of  per- 
sonal property;  and  we  know  that  it  was  not  unusual 
for  fathers  to  make,  while  yet  alive,  a division  of  their 
goods  among  their  children  (Luke  xv,  12;  Bosenmuller, 
Morgenl.  v,  197). — lvitto.  See  Heritage. 

Inhibition  (Lat.  inliibitio,  from  inhibeo , I restrain) 
is  in  some  churches  “a  writ  by  which  an  inferior  is 
commanded  by  a superior  ecclesiastical  authority  to  stay 
the  proceedings  in  which  it  is  engaged.  Thus,  if  a 
member  of  a college  appeals  to  the  visitor,  the  visitor 
inhibits  all  proceedings  against  the  appellant  until  the 
appeal  is  determined.  When  the  archbishop  visits,  he 
inhibits  the  bishop  of  the  diocese ; when  the  bishop  vis- 
its, he  inhibits  the  archdeacon ; which  inhibitions  con- 
tinue in  force  until  the  last  parish  is  visited.  If  a lapse 
happens  while  the  inhibition  is  in  force  against  the 
bishop,  the  archbishop  must  institute;  institution  by 
the  bishop  would  be  void,  as  his  power  is  suspended.” — 
Eadie,  Ba  les.  Diet.  p.  337. 

Iniquity  (prop.  *11*,  diW«  ; hut  represented  in  the 
A.  Vers,  bv  several  other  words)  means  in  Scripture  not 
only  sin,  but,  by  metonymy,  also  the  punishment  of  sin, 
and  the  expiation  of  it : “Aaron  will  boar  the  iniquities 
of  the  people;”  he  will  atone  for  them  (Exod.  xxviii, 
38).  The  Lord  “ visits  the  iniquities  of  the  fathers 
upon  the  children”  (Exod.  xx,  5) ; he  sometimes  causes 
visible  effects  of  his  wrath  to  fall  on  the  children  of 
criminal  parents.  “To  bear  inquity”  is  to  endure  the 
punishment  of  it,  to  be  obliged  to  expiate  it.  The 
priests  bear  the  iniquity  of  the  people;  that  is,  they  are 
charged  with  the  expiation  of  it  (Exod.  xxviii,  38 ; . 
Lev.  x,  17).— Calmet.  See  Six. 

Initiation,  a common  term  in  the  early  Church  | 
for  baptism,  having  reference  to  the  full  instruction  in  ! 
the  mysteries  of  Christianity  which  was  given  to  the  I 


baptized,  but  withheld  from  the  unbaptized.  The  bap- 
tized were  thus  called  initiati , ot  fif/ivripivoi,  pvorai, 
or  fivarayibytiToi ; and  it  is  very  common  to  find  the 
fathers  using  the  expression  “the  initiated  will  under- 
stand” in  their  preaching  to  mixed  congregations,  es- 
pecially when  they  were  speaking  of  anything  which 
belonged  to  the  doctrine  of  the  holy  Eucharist.  This 
expression  is  said  by  Casanbon  to  occur  fifty  times  in 
the  sermons  of  St.  Chrysostom  alone — Blunt,  Theolog. 
Diet,  i,  348.  Several  other  names  were  given  to  these 
persons,  such  as  Trt<JToi,jideles , (fxoTtZopfi’oi,  etc.  The 
word  has  sometimes  been  employed  with  reference  to 
the  supposed  duty  of  reserve  in  communicating  divine 
knowledge,  as  though  the  holy  Scriptures  justified  the 
withholding  instruction  in  Christianity  from  persons  in 
an  early  stage  of  their  Christian  course. — Bingham,  Orig. 
Bccles.  bk.  i,  ch.  iv,  § 2.  See  Disctulina  Arc  an  i. 

Injury,  a violation  of  the  rights  of  another.  “ Some,” 
says  Grove,  “distinguish  between  injustitia  and  injuria. 
Injustice  is  opposed  to  justice  in  general,  whether  nega- 
tive or  positive;  an  injury,  to  negative  justice  alone. 
See  Justice.  An  injury  is  wilfully  doing  to  another 
what  ought  not  to  be  done.  This  is  injustice  too,  but 
| not  the  whole  idea  of  it;  for  it  is  injustice  also  to  refuse 
or  neglect  doing  what  ought  to  be  done.  An  injury 
must  be  wilfully  committed;  whereas  it  is  enough  to 
make  a thing  unjust  that  it  happens  through  a culpable 
negligence.  1.  We  may  injure  a person  in  Ins  soul  by 
misleading  his  judgment,  by  corrupting  the  imagina- 
tion, perverting  the  will,  and  wounding  the  soul  with 
grief.  Persecutors  who  succeed  in  their  compulsive 
measures,  though  they  cannot  alter  the  real  sentiments 
by  external  violence,  yet  sometimes  injure  the  soul  by 
making  the  man  a hypocrite.  2.  We  may  injure  an- 
other in  his  body  by  homicide,  murder,  preventing  life, 

! dismembering  the  body  by  wounds,  blows,  slavery,  and 
imprisonment,  or  any  unjust  restraint  upon  its  liberty; 
by  robbing  it  of  its  chastity,  or  prejudicing  its  health. 

! 3.  We  may  injure  another  in  his  name  and  character  by 
| our  own  false  and  rash  judgments  of  him  ; by  false  wit- 
ness; by  charging  a man  to  his  face  with  a crime  which 
either  we  ourselves  have  forged,  or  which  we  know  to 
have  been  forged  by  some  other  person ; by  detraction 
or  backbiting;  by  reproach,  or  exposing  another  for 
some  natural  imbecility  either  in  body  or  mind ; or  for 
some  calamity  into  which  he  is  fallen,  or  some  miscar- 
riage of  which  he  has  been  guilty ; by  innuendoes,  or 
indirect  accusations  that  are  not  true.  Now  if  we  con- 
sider the  value  of  character,  the  resentment  which  the 
injurious  person  has  of  such  treatment  when  it  comes  to 
his  own  turn  to  suffer  it,  the  consequence  of  a man’s  los- 
ing his  good  name,  and,  finally,  the  difficulty  of  making 
reparation,  we  must  at  once  see  the  injustice  of  lessening 
another’s  good  character.  There  are  these  two  consid- 
erations which  should  sometimes  restrain  us  from  speak- 
ing the  whole  truth  of  our  neighbor,  when  it  is  to  his 
disadvantage.  (1.)  That  he  may  possibly  live  to  see 
his  folly,  and  repent  and  grow  better.  (2.)  Admitting 
that  we  speak  the  truth,  yet  it  is  a thousand  to  one 
I but  when  it  is  bandied  about  for  some  time  it  will  con- 
tract a deal  of  falsehood.  4.  We  may  injure  a jn  rson  in 
his  relations  and  dependencies.  In  his  servants,  by  cor- 
rupting them ; in  his  children,  by  drawing  them  into 
evil  courses;  in  his  wife,  by  sowing  strife,  attempting 
to  alienate  her  affections.  5.  Jf>  may  be  guilty  of  injur- 
ing another  in  his  trorldly  goods  or  possessions : (1.)  By 
doing  him  a mischief  without  any  advantage  to  our- 
selves, through  envy  and  malice.  (2.)  By  taking  what 
is  another’s,  which  is  theft.”  See  Grove,  Mor.  Phil.  ch. 
viii,  p.  2 ; Watts,  Sermons , vol.  ii,  ser.  S3 ; Tillotson,  Ser- 
mons, ser.  42 ; Buck,  Theological  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Ink  (l*1^,  deyo',  so  called  from  its  blackness,  Jer. 
xxxvi,  18;  Gr.  black,  2 Cor.  iii,  3;  2 John  12;  3 

John  13).  The  most  simple,  and  hence  probably  the 
most  ancient  mode  of  preparing  ink  was  a mixture  of 
water  with  charcoal  powdered,  or  with  soot,  to  which 


587 


INN 


INK-HOIIN 


gum  was  added.  The  Hebrews  made  use  of  different  ' ments  likewise  represent  scribes  with  inkstands  in  their 
colors  for  writing,  as  did  also  the  ancient  Egyptians,  left  hands,  containing  two  bottles  for  different  colored 
and  some  of  the  books  of  the  former  are  stated  by  Jose-  inks  (Wilkinson,  ii,  1<6).  8cc  )\  xuting. 


pirns  to  have  been  written  in  gold.  The  mode  of  writ- 
ing mentioned  in  Numb,  v,  23,  where  it  is  said  that 
“the  priest  shall  write  the  curses  in  a book  and  blot 
them  out  with  the  bitter  water,”  was  with  a kind  of  ink 
prepared  for  the  purpose,  without  any  calx  of  iron  or 
other  material  that  could  make  a permanent  dye ; these 
maledictions  were  then  washed  off  the  parchment  into 
the  water,  which  the  woman  was  obliged  to  drink : so 
that  she  drank  the  very  words  of  the  execration.  The 


Inn  (‘jib'3,  maloti,  Gcn.xlii,  27 ; xliii,  21;  Exod.iv, 
24,  a lodging-]i\ace,  as  elsewhere  rendered;  KardXv/ia, 
Luke  ii,  7,  a place  for  loosing  the  beasts  of  their  burden, 
rendered  “guest-chamber,”  Mark  xiv,  14;  Luke  xxiii, 
1 1 ; 7ravSo\tiov,  Luke  x,  34,  a place  for  receiving  all 
comers).  Inns,  in  our  sense  of  the  term,  were,  as  they 
still  are,  unknown  in  the  East  where  hospitality  is  re- 
ligiously practised.  The  khans,  or  caravanserais,  are 
the  representatives  of  European  inns,  and  these  were 


ink  still  used  in  the  East  is  almost  all  of  this  kind;  a established  but  gradually.  It  is  doubtful  whether  there 
wet  sponge  will  completely  obliterate  the  finest  of  their  js  anv  allusion  to  them  in  the  Old  Testament.  The 
writings.  The  ancients  used  several  kinds  of  tinctures 


The 

halting-place  of  a caravan  was  selected  originally  on  ac- 
count of  its  proximity  to  water  or  pasture,  by  which 
the  travellers  pitched  their  tents  and  passed  the  night. 
Such  was  undoubtedly  the  “inn”  at  which  occurred  the 
incident  in  the  life  of  Moses  narrated  in  Exod.  iv,  24. 
It  was  probably  one  of  the  halting-places  of  the  lshmacl- 
itish  merchants  who  traded  to  Egypt  with  their  camel- 
loads  of  spices.  Moses  was  on  his  journey  from  the  land 
of  Midian,  and  the  merchants  in  Gen.  xxxvii  are  called 
mai  direction,  oucu  v.ir.oiic  iuk  indiscriminately  Islimaelites  and  Midianites.  At  one  of 
as  has  been  used  on  the  old  parchment  manuscripts  these  stations,  too,  the  first  which  they  reac  ie<  a ter 
would  have  corroded  the  delicate  leaves  of  the  papyrus,  leaving  the  city,  and  no  doubt  wit  nn  a s lort  t istancc 
as  it  has  done  the  skins  of  the  most  ancient  manuscripts  frmn  it,  Josephs  brethren  disco's  erei  t at  uir  money 
of  Virgil  and  Terence  in  the  library  of  the  Vatican  ; the  bad  been  replaced  in  their  w allets  ( ien.  x n,  _< ). 


as  ink;  among  them  that  extracted  from  the  cuttle-fish, 
called  in  Hebrew  rbzri,  tekeleth.  Their  ink  was  not  so 
fluid  as  ours.  Demosthenes  reproaches  vEschincs  with 
laboring  in  the  grinding  of  ink,  as  painters  do  in  the 
grinding  of  their  colors.  The  substance  found  in  an 
inkstand  at  Herculaneum  looks  like  a thick  oil  or  paint, 
urith  which  the  manuscripts  had  been  written  in  a sort 
of  relievo,  visible  in  the  letters  wdicn  a leaf  is  held  to 
the  light  in  a horizontal  direction.  Such  vitriolic  ink 


letters  are  sunk  into  the  parchment,  and  some  have 
eaten  quite  through  it,  in  eon&quence  of  the  corrosive 
acid  of  the  vitriolic  ink  with  which  they  were  written. 
Sec  Whiting. 

Ink-horn  (rp£,  ke'seth , a round  vessel),  an  ink- 
stand  worn  in  the  girdle  (Ezek.  ix,  2,  3, 11).  This  im- 
plement is  one  of  considerable  antiquity;  it  is  common 
throughout  the  Levant,  and  is  often  seen  in  the  houses 
of  the  Greeks.  To  one  end  of  a long  brass  tube  for 
holding  pens  is  attached  the.  little  case  containing  the 
moistened  sepia  used  for  ink,  which  is  closed  with  a lid 
and  snap,  and  the  wdiole  stuck  with  much  importance 
in  the  girdle.  This  is,  without  doubt,  substantially  the 
instrument  borne  by  the  individual  whom  Ezekiel  men- 
tions as  “one  mar.  clothed  in  linen,  with  a writer’s  ink- 
horn  by  his  side.”  We  find  the  Egyptian  scribes  had 
likewise  a cylindrical  box  for  ink,  which  was  probably 


Modern  Orieutal  Writing  Implements. 


Increased  commercial  intercourse,  and,  in  later  times, 
religious  enthusiasm  for  pilgrimages,  gave  rise  to  the 
establishment  of  more  permanent  accommodation  for 
travellers.  On  the  more  frequented  routes,  remote  from 
towns  (Jcr.  ix,  2),  caravanserais  were  in  course  of  time 
erected,  often  at  the  expense  of  the  wealthy.  The  fol- 
lowing description  of  one  of  those  on  the  road  from  Bag- 
dad to  Babylon  will  suffice  for  aU : “ It  is  a large  and 
substantial  square  building,  in  the  distance  resembling 
a fortress,  being  surrounded  with  a lofty  wall,  and  flank- 
ed by  round  towers  to  defend  the  inmates  in  case  of  at- 
tack. Passing  through  a strong  gateway,  the  guest  en- 
ters a large  court,  the  sides  of  which  are  divided  into 
numerous  arched  compartments,  open  in  front,  for  the 
accommodation  of  separate  parties  and  for  the  reception 
of  goods.  In  the  centre  is  a spacious  raised  platform, 
used  for  sleeping  upon  at  night,  or  for  the  devotions  of 
the  faithful  during  the  day.  Between  the  outer  wall 
and  the  compart- 
ments are  wide 
vaulted  arcades, 
extending  round 
the  entire  build- 
ing, where  the 
beasts  of  burden 
are  placed.  Upon 
the  roof  of  the  ar- 
cades is  an  excel- 
lent terrace,  and 
over  the  gateway 
an  elevated  tower 
containing  two 
rooms,  oneof  which 
isopen  at  the  sides, 


carried  in  a similar  manner.  Besides  these,  the  modern  permitting  the  occupants  to  enjoy  every  breath  of  air 
Egyptians  have  a regular  inkstand  for  more  extensive  that  passes  across  the  heated  plain.  The  terrace  is  tol- 


writing.  The  ancient 
Egyptians  had  writ- 
ing-tablets, which  are 
square  pallets  of  wood, 


crablv  clean,  but  the  court  and  stabling  below  are  ankle- 
deep  in  chopped  straw  and  tilth”  (Loftus,  Chaldea , p.  13). 
The  great  khans  established  by  the  Persian  kings  and 
great  men,  at  intervals  of  about  six  miles  on  the  roads 


Ancient  Egyptian  Writing-tablet  wit h longitudinal  from  Bagdad  to  the  sacred  places,  are  provided  with 
(From  Abbott’s  Egyptian  Mu-  grooves  to  hold  the  | stables  for  the  horses  of  the  pilgrims.  “ Within  these 
seum.)  kash  or  small  reeds  stables,  on  both  sides,  are  other  cells  for  travellers”  (Lav- 

used  for  writing;  the  well,  for  color,  in  some  is  in  the  ard, Xin.  and  Bab.  p.  47X,  note).  The  “stall”  or  “man- 
usual  form  of  an  oval  or  signet;  towards  the  upper  end  ger,”  mentioned  in  Luke  ii,  7,  was  probably  in  a stable 
of  the  pallet  on  others  is  inscribed  the  name  of  the  own-  j of  this  kind.  Such  khans  are  sometimes  situated  near 
er.  In  bronze,  there  are  cylindrical  boxes  for  ink,  with  running  streams,  or  have  a supply  of  water  of  some 
a chain  for  the  pen-case,  the  whole  similar  to  the  hie-  j kind,  but  the  traveller  must  carryall  his  provisions  with 
roglyphical  symbol  for  scribe  or  writing.  The  monu-  | him  (Ouseley,  True,  in  Persia , i,  261,  note).  At  Damas- 


INN 


588 


INNER  MISSIONS 


cas  the  khans  are,  many  of  them,  substantial  buildings;  | 
the  small  rooms  which  surround  the  court,  as  well  as  ( 
those  above  them  which  are  entered  from  a gallery,  are 
used  by  the  merchants  of  the  city  for  depositing  their 
goods  (Porter’s  Damascus,  i,  33).  The  wekdlehs  of  mod- 
ern Egypt  are  of  a similar  description  (Lane,  Mod.  Eg. 
ii,  10)!*  In  some  parts  of  modern  Syria  a nearer  ap- 
proach has  been  made  to  the  European  system.  The 
people  of  es-Salt,  according  to  Bnrckhardt,  support  four 
taverns  (Menzel  or  Medha/e)  at  the  public  expense.  At 
these  the  traveller  is  furnished  with  everything  he  may 
require,  so  long  as  he  chooses  to  remain,  provided  his 
stay  is  not  unreasonably  protracted.  The  expenses  are 
paid  by  a tax  on  the  heads  of  families,  and  a kind  of 
landlord  superintends  the  establishment  (Tear,  in  Syria , 
p.  3G).  Usually,  however,  in  Syrian  towns,  where  there 
is  no  regular  khan,  the  menzoul  or  public  house  is  part 
of  the  sheik’s  establishment,  with  a keeper  w'ho  makes 
a moderate  charge  for  catering  to  his  guests  in  addition 
to  the  cost  of  provisions.  See  Caravanserai. 


“The  house  of  paths”  (Prov.  viii,  2,  tv  o imp  Cwcwv, 
Pen.  Vers.),  where  Wisdom  took  her  stand,  is  understood 
by  some  to  refer  appropriately  to  a khan  built  where 
many  ways  met  and  frequented  by  many  travellers.  A 
similar  meaning  has  been  attached  to  r^a,  ge- 

ruth  Kimlidm,  “ the  hostel  of  Chimham”  (Jer.  xli,  17)  be- 
side Bethlehem,  built  by  the  liberality  of  the  son  of 
Barzillai  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  were  going  down 
to  Egypt  (Stanley,  Sin.  and  Palest,  p.  1G3;  App.  § 90). 
The  Targum  says,  “which  David  gave  to  Chimham, 
son  of  Barzillai  the  Gileadite’’  (comp.  2 Sam.  xix,  37,38). 
With  regard  to  this  passage,  the  ancient  versions  are 
strangely  at  variance.  The  Sept,  had  evidently  anoth- 
er reading  with  2 and  3 transposed,  which  they  left  un- 
translated yafiijpaxapaa,  Alexand.  yi)fh]pwBxapdap. 
The  Vulgate,  if  intended  to  be  literal,  must  have  read 
212  peregrinanU-s  in  Chanaam.  The  Arabic, 

following  the  Alexandrian  MS.,  read  it  Iv  B ppioQ- 

Xapdap,  “in  the  land  of  Bcrothchainaam.”  The  Syr- 
iac has  b'edre,  “in  the  threshing-floors,”  as  if  “*2“32, 
begorndth.  Josephus  had  a reading  different  from  ail, 
rfi“*l33,  begidrvth , “in  the  folds  of”  Chimham;  for  he 
says  the  fugitives  went  “ to  a certain  place  called  Man- 
dra”  (Moi'Cprr  Xtyopivov,  Ant.  x,  9,  5),  and  in  this  he 
was  followed  by  Aquila  and  the  Ilexaplar  Syriac. 

The  ircivSoKtiov  (Luke  x,  34)  probably  differed  from 
the  KardXvpa  (Luke  ii,  7)  in  having  a “ host”  or  “ inn- 
keeper” (7ravdoKtv£,  Luke  x,  35),  who  supplied  some  few 
of  the  necessary  provisions,  and  attended  to  the  wants 
of  travellers  left  to  his  charge.  The  word  has  been 
adopted  in  the  later  Hebrew,  and  appears  in  the  Mishna 
(Yebamoth,  xvi,  7)  under  the  form  J71UE.  pundak,  and 
the  host  is  “’pfUS,  punddki.  The  Jews  were  forbidden 
to  put  up  their  beasts  at  establishments  of  this  kind 
kept  by  idolaters  (Aboda  Zara,  ii,  1 ).  It  appears  that 
houses  of  entertainment  were  sometimes,  as  in  Egypt 
(llerod.  ii,  35),  kept  by  women,  whose  character  was 
such  that  their  evidence  was  regarded  with  suspicion. 


In  the  Mishna  ( Yebamoth,  xvi,  7)  a tale  is  told  of  a com- 
pany of  Levites  who  were  travelling  to  Zoar,  the  city 
of  Balms,  when  one  of  them  fell  ill  oil  the  road  and  was 
left  by  his  comrades  at  an  inn,  under  the  charge  of  the 
hostess (r*'p“lY'£,2nindekith  = 7ravCoiavTpia).  On  their 
return  to  inquire  for  their  friend,  the  hostess  told  them 
he  vras  dead  and  buried, but  they  refused  to  believe  her 
till  she  produced  his  staff,  wallet,  and  roll  of  the  law. 
In  Josh,  ii,  1,  HUJ,  zunah,  the  term  applied  to  Eahab,  is 
rendered  in  the  Targum  of  Jonathan  Xr,*p‘i;*'£,7?u«- 
dekiihd,  “a  woman  who  keeps  an  inn.”  So  in  Judg.  xi, 
1,  of  the  mother  of  Jephthah  ; of  Delilah  (Judg.  xvi,  1) 
and  the  two  women  who  appealed  to  Solomon  (1  Kings 
iii,  1G).  The  vrords,  in  the  opinion  of  Kimchi  on  Josh, 
ii,  1,  appear  to  have  been  synonymous. — Smith,  s.  v. 
See  Khan. 

Inner  (i.  e.  Domestic,  or  “ Home")  Missions  is 
the  name  given,  in  the  Protestant  churches  of  Germany, 
to  any  association  of  evangelical  Christians  for  the  pur- 
pose of  relieving  the  spiritual  and  temporal  wants  of  the 
community  by  disseminating  the  Gospel  truth,  and  af- 
fording help  in  temporal  concerns. 

I.  Origin  and  Organization. — Christianity  commands 
that  faith  should  manifest  itself  in  deeds  of  love  ; lienee, 
as  early  as  the  apostolical  times,  we  see  deacons  and 
deaconesses  appointed  to  attend  to  the  poor  and  the 
sick,  distribute  alms,  etc.  This  was  continued  in  later 
days  by  Origen,  St.  Anthony,  etc.  When,  in  the  4th 
century,  Christianity  became  the  religion  of  the  state, 
the  clergy  assumed  this  office,  which,  from  the  abun- 
dance of  means  in  the  Church,  had  become  a very  im- 
portant one.  In  subsequent  times  we  find  Francis  of 
Assisi,  Elizabeth  of  Thuringia,  Francis  of  Sales,  and  a 
number  of  religious  orders,  hospitallers,  sisters  of  chari- 
ty, etc.,  devoting  tliunselvts  to  the  care  of  the  poor, 

I the  aged,  and  the  sick.  Hospitals,  houses  of  refuge,  or- 
phan asylums,  etc.,  were  established  for  these  purposes. 
The  Protestant  Church,  in  consequence  of  its  subjection 
to  the  state,  could  exert  itself  but  little  in  that  direc- 
tion, being  oftentimes  even  prevented  by  law  from  the 
care  of  the  poor.  Still  efforts  were  made  by  private 
individuals,  such  as  August  Hermann  Francke,  whose 
orphan  asylum  at  Halle  became  a model  which  was  im- 
itated in  other  places;  Biblical,  missionary,  and  tract 
societies  were  established  in  German}',  and  a number  of 
I houses  of  refuge  and  infant  schools  established.  In 
modern  times  a fresh  impulse  was  given  to  this  evan- 
I gelical  movement  by  England.  The  attempts  of  I Tow- 
ard, Wilbcrforee,  and  Buxton  were  continued  on  an  en- 
I larged  scale  by  lord  Ashley,  the  duke  of  Argyle,  Eliz- 
abeth Fry,  etc.  City  missions,  Magdalen  and  night 
asylums,  Sabbath  and  ragged  schools,  were  established. 
Chalmers,  first  in  the  Presbyterian  and  then  in  the  Free 
Church  of  Scotland,  restored  the  diaeony  and  care  of 
the  poor  on  an  ecclesiastical  basis.  Similar  efforts  were 
made  in  France,  among  the  Humanists,  by  the  Sisters 
of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Joseph,  and  St.  Regis. 

IT.  Sphere. — The  German  inner  missions  endeavor  to 
promote  infant,  secular,  and  Sunday  school  associations, 
institutions  of  refuge,  intercourse  with  the  families,  etc. 
They  at  the  same  time  take  part  in  the  social  questions 
of  the  day,  and  labor  to  systematize  the  aid  given  to  the 
poor,  to  promote  personal  intercourse  beDvecn  the  giver 
and  the  receiver,  the  purification  of  morals;  and  for 
these  purposes  they  have  established  female  benevo- 
lent associations,  diaeonies,  nurseries,  labor  societies,  etc. 
The  influx  of  communistic  ideas  they  seek  to  connterbal- 
j ance  by  establishing  schools  for  apprentices  and  adults, 
societies  for  the  education  of  servants,  both  male  ami 
I female,  and  for  the  propagation  of  good  books.  They 
1 oppose  unchristian  and  unecclesiastical  tendencies  by 
promoting  the  study  of  the  Scriptures,  establishing  fam- 
ily worship,  awakening  religious  feelings  in  the  families, 
organizing  hook  and  tract  societies,  sending  out  colpor- 
teurs and  street  preachers,  and  opposing  prostitution, 
drunkenness,  and  all  other  immorality.  They  discoun- 


INNER  MISSIONS 


589 


INNOCENT  I 


tenance  revolution  as  subversive  of  political  organiza- 
tion, and  as  the  enemy  of  religion  ami  of  morality : in 
this  department  they  act  through  political  speeches  and 
the  press,  in  raising  the  standard  of  popular  literature, 
and  especially  by  their  influence  over  the  rising  genera- 
tion. They  also  attend  to  the  prisons,  trying  to  promote 
Christian  love  in  the  hearts  of  the  officers  intrusted  with 
their  charge,  and  forming  persons  for  that  office  in  their 
institutions.  Aside  from  the  protective  associations  for 
culprits  who  have  finished  their  time  of  imprisonment, 
they  endeavor  also  to  establish  asylums  for  them. 

111.  Extent . — In  Germany  the  inner  missions  embrace 
some  eleven  to  twelve  million  Protestants,  not  regular- 
ly connected  with  any  Church,  the  floating  population, 
the  workmen’s  associations,  which  are  often  a prey  to 
atheism  and  communism,  travellers  and  strangers,  etc. 
In  this  manner  they  become  a friendly  ally  of  the  gov- 
ernment, of  which  all  they  require  is  the  protection  of 
their  associations  and  freedom  of  worship.  ’With  regard 
to  the  Church,  they  labor  for  the  evangelizing  of  the 
masses  according  to  a truly  Christian  spirit,  but  without 
entering  into  any  of  the  disputes  of  the  different  confes- 
sions, and  without  seeking  to  gain  proselytes.  Their 
agents  are  women  as  well  as  men ; for  instance,  Eliza- 
beth Fry,  Sarah  Martin,  Amelia  Sieveking,  etc.  The 
absolute  necessity  of  such  an  association  was  shown  by 
statistical  statements  of  the  wants  of  the  population, 
which  were  especially  collected  by  Wiehern.  From  this 
starting-point  the  institution  in  question  developed  its 
labors.  Aside  from  the  organization  of  societies,  which 
were  soon  propagated  throughout  the  country,  it  direct- 
ed its  attention  to  the  establishing  of  houses  of  refuge,  to 
which  that  established  by  Wiehern  at  Horn,  near  Ham- 
burg, served  as  model,  and  of  which,  in  185*,  there  were 
some  140  in  existence  in  Germany.  For  the  care  of 
the  poor  it  was  difficult  to  do  much,  as  the  inner  mis- 
sions could  not  well  associate  themselves  with  the  mu- 
nicipal organizations  for  that  purpose,  yet  in  some 
places,  as  at  Erlangen  and  at  Ansbach,  the  voluntary 
system  of  relief  has  produced  good  results.  The  inner 
missions  also  labor  to  promote  the  observance  of  the 
Sabbath,  and  to  distribute  Bibles.  Their  most  impor- 
tant results,  so  far,  in  Germany,  are  the  establishing  of 
Bible  depots,  of  associations  to  meet  the  wants  of  the 
ignorant,  the  improvement  of  the  prison  systems,  which 
has  been  adopted  in  a number  of  countries,  etc. 

The  interest  of  Germany  in  the  cause  of  inner  mis- 
sions has  of  late  greatly  increased.  The  Congress  for 
Inner  Missions,  which  in  1848  was  organized  in  connec- 
tion with  the  Church  Diet  ( Kirchentag ),  has  ever  since 
hold  annual  or  biennial  general  meetings  in  connection 
with  the  sittings  of  the  Church  Diet.  At  these  meet- 
ings reports  are  made  on  the  condition  of  religious  life 
in  Germany,  and  the  proper  remedies  for  the  existing 
evils  are  discussed.  The  establishment  of  houses  of 
refuge  and  of  Christian  lodging-houses,  the  care  of  the 
poor  and  of  discharged  prisoners,  the  solution  of  the  so- 
cial question,  the  extension  of  Young  Men’s  Christian 
Associations,  and  of  Bible  and  other  religious  societies, 
are  the  chief  subjects  which  engage  the  attention  of 
every  congress.  In  addition  to  the  General  Congress 
for  Inner  Missions,  a number  of  provincial  associations 
for  the  same  purpose  have  been  organized.  Thus  a 
/South-western  Conference  for  Inner  Missions  was  estab- 
lished in  1865;  a central  association  for  the  inner  mis- 
sion of  the  Evangelical  Lutheran  Church  in  the  king- 
dom of  Saxony  in  1868.  The  Central  Committee  for 
Inner  Missions,  which  is  elected  at  every  meeting  of  the 
Congress  for  Inner  Missions,  and  is  composed  of  some 
of  the  most  prominent  clergymen  and  laymen  of  Ger- 
many, endeavors  to  carry  out  the  resolutions  of  the  con- 
gresses, and  to  invoke  the  proper  legislation  of  the  state 
government  for  the  suppression  of  vice  and  immorality, 
especially  of  prostitution.  Germany  has  a number  of 
papers  advocating  the  cause  of  inner  missions,  the  most 
important  of  which,  the  Fliegende  Blatter  fur  innere 
Mission,  is  published  by  Wiehern  (established  in  1850). 


See  also  Merz,  .1  rinuth  u.  Christenthum  (1841) ; Wiehern, 
Denkschrift  (1849);  Braune,  Fiinf  Vorlesungen  (1850); 
Buss  (Roman  Catholic),  Die  Volksmissionen  (1851);  Pie- 
rer,  Universal  Lexikon,  viii,  9L9.  For  a fuller  account 
of  the  subject,  especially  with  regard  to  America,  Eng- 
land, and  other  countries,  see  Missions,  Home. 

Innocent  (prop.  d£woc).  The  Hebrews  con- 
sidered innocence  as  consisting  chiefly  in  an  exemption 
from  external  faults  committed  contrary  to  the  law ; 
hence  they  often  join  innocent  with  hands  (Gen.  xxxvii, 
22 ; Psa.  xxiv,  4).  “ I will  wash  my  hands  in  innocency” 
(Psa.  xxvi,  6)  ; “ Then  have  I cleansed  my  heart  in  vain, 
and  washed  my  hands  in  innocency”  (Psa.  Lxxiii,  18). 
Josephus  admits  of  no  other  sins  than  those  actions 
which  are  put  in  execution  (A  nt.  xii,  7,  1).  .Sins  in 
thought,  in  his  account,  are  not  punished  by  God.  This 
is  a very  different  standard  of  morality  from  that  of  the 
Gospel  (Matt,  v,  28;  John  iii,  15),  or  even  of  the  O.  T. 
(Psa.  li,  6).  To  be  innocent  is  used  sometimes  for  be- 
ing exempt  from  punishment.  “ I will  not  treat  you  as 
one  innocent”  (Jer.  xlvi,  28);  literally,  I will  not  make 
thee  innocent ; I will  chastise  thee,  but  like  a kind  fa- 
ther. Jeremiah  (xlix,  12),  speaking  to  the  Edomites, 
says,  “They  who  have  not  (so  much)  deserved  to  drink 
of  the  cup  of  my  wrath,  have  tasted  of  it.”  Nahum  (i, 
3)  declares  that  “ God  is  ready  to  exercise  vengeance ; 
he  will  make  no  one  innocent ; lie  will  spare  no  one ;” 
(Exod.  xxxiv,  7,  Heb.),  “Thou  shalt  make  no  one  in- 
nocent ;”  no  sin  shall  remain  unpunished.  “ With  the 
pure  thou  wilt  show  thyself  pure”  (Psa.  xviii,  26) ; thou 
treatest  the  just  as  just,  the  good  as  good;  thou  never 
dost  confound  the  guilty  with  the  innocent. — Calmet. 

Innocent  I,  St.,  a native  of  Albano,  near  Rome, 
became  pope  April  27,  402,  as  successor  of  Anastasias  I, 
St.  Chrysostom  had  just  been  driven  from  Constantino- 
ple and  exiled  to  Bithynia  in  consequence  of  his  zeal 
against  the  Arians,  and  of  his  attacks  against  the  em- 
press Eudoxia.  Innocent  I at  once  actively  took  his 
part,  and  sought  to  have  the  affair  referred  to  a council 
of  the  joint  bishops  of  the  Eastern  and  Western  church- 
es. Failing  in  this,  he  next,  attempted  an  arrangement 
with  the  emperor,  but  his  envoys  were  ill  treated,  and 
accomplished  nothing.  St.  Chrysostom  died  in  the 
mean  time,  but  Innocent  resolved  to  cease  all  intercourse 
with  Constantinople  until  justice  was  done  to  his  mem- 
ory. The  Western  Church  was  itself  in  a state  of  great 
disturbance;  in  Africa  the  Donatists  (q.  v.)  were  giving 
much  trouble,  and  Innocent  finally  caused  them  to  be 
condemned  by  the  Council  of  Carthage  (405) ; in  Rome 
Vigilantins  opposed  the  abuses  introduced  into  the 
Church,  such  as  the  celibacy  of  the  priests,  the  worship 
of  images,  and  monastic  life.  At  the  same  time  Alaric 
was  marching  with  the  Goths  against  Rome : the  Chris- 
tians fled  to  their  churches,  and  Innocent  permitted  the 
heathen  to  offer  up  sacrifices  to  their  gods;  but  prayers 
and  sacrifices  proved  in  vain,  and  the  pope  was  obliged 
to  pay  to  Alaric  the  ransom  of  the  city,  which  was  nev- 
ertheless taken  by  the  barbarians  Aug.  24,  410,  and 
sacked.  It  was  retaken,  but  plundered  the  following 
year  by  Astolf,  Alaric’s  brother-in-law.  After  the  Goths 
had  left  the  neighborhood  of  Rome,  Innocent  I,  who 
had  sought  refuge  with  the  emperor  at  Ravenna,  return- 
ed to  the  city,  and  by  his  efforts  to  restore  its  prosperity 
gained  a great  many  heathens  to  the  Church.  He 
commanded  that  Sundays  should  be  considered  fast- 
days  as  well  as  Fridays,  enjoined  celibacy  on  the  priests, 
and  took  repressive  measures  against  the  Macedonians. 
His  course  against  the  Pelagians  seems  to  have  been  va- 
riable. Schaff  says  that  he  commended  the  Africans, 
who  had  condemned  Pelagianism  in  two  synods  (Car- 
thage and  Mileve,  now  Melas),  for  having  addressed 
them  selves  to  the  Church  of  St.  Peter  to  obtain  an  ap- 
proval for  their  acts,  but  that  he  refrained  from  giving 
judgment.  He  died  March  12,  417,  was  canonized,  and 
ranks  among  the  highest  saints  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church.  He  is  commemorated  on  July  28.  His  decre- 


INNOCENT  II  590  INNOCENT  III 


ink  are  to  be  found  in  tlie  collection  of  Dionysius  Ex- 
iguus,  and  the  most  complete  collection  of  his  letters  in 
Schbnemann’s  Pontijicum  Rom.  epistolce  genuina.  Labbe, 
Concil.  ii,  1245-1308,  gives  thirty  of  his  letters.  Gen- 
nadio,  in  Re  Scriptoribus  Ecclesiastic  is , eh.  iii,  ascribes  to  , 
him  the  Decretum  ocddentalium  et  orientalium  ecclesiis  j 
adversus  Pelagianos  datum,  published  during  the  reign  j 
of  his  successor,  Zozimus  I.  See  Bruys,  Ilist.  des  Papes 
(1735.  5 vols.  4to),  i,  100;  Labbe  and  Cossart,  Sacro-  j 
sancta  Concilia  (1(571,  15  vols.  fob),  ii,  1241-1553;  Ba-  i 
ronius,  Annales,  vi,  401-G32 ; Fleurv,  Hist.  Ecclesias- 
tique,  v,  eh.  xxi;  Vossius,  Ilistor.  Pelag. ; II.  de  Noris 
(Nurisius),  Jlistoire  du  Pelagia nisme ; Alletz,  Hist,  des 
Papes,  i,  95;  Anastasius,  Yitce  Roman.  Pontijicum,  i,  275; 
Ciaconius,  Viter  et  res  gestm  Pontijicum  Romanorum,  i, 
03 ; 1 lerzog,  Real- Ency klop.  vi,  GG2 ; Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist. 
cent,  v,  pt.  ii,  eh.  ii;  Hoefer,  Xour.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv, 
88(5 ; Neander,  History  of  the  Christian  Religion  and 
Church,  ii,  170, 299,  585. 5ji7 ; Sehatf,  Church  History,  iii, 
797  sq. 

Innocent  II,  Pope  ( Gregorio  Papareschi),  was 
born  at  Rome  as  one  of  the  family  of  the  Guidoni.  He 
became  successively  abbot  of  the  Benedictine  convent 
of  St.  Nicholas  at  Rome,  eardinal-deaeon  in  1118,  and 
was  finally  eleeted  pope  by  one  party  of  the  cardinals  in 
1130,  as  successor  of  Honorius  II.  The  other  party 
eleeted  Peter  Leonis,  under  the  name  of  Anaeletus  II. 
Innocent  tied  to  France,  where  Bernard  de  Clairvaux 
caused  him  to  be  acknowledged  as  pope  by  Louis  VI 
and  by  the  Council  of  Etampes;  he  was  soon  after  rec- 
ognised also  by  Ilenry  II  of  England,  by  Lotharius,  king 
of  Germany,  and  even  by  the  Synod  of  Pisa  in  1134. 
In  113G  he  returned  to  Rome  with  the  emperor,  and,  af- 
ter the  death  of  Anaeletus  in  1138,  was  universally  ac- 
knowledged as  pope.  He  drove  Arnold  of  Brescia  out 
of  Italy,  and  put  king  Roger  under  the  ban,  but,  having 
taken  the  field  against  the  latter,  he  was  made  prisoner 
at  Galleeeio  in  1139.  He  was  afterwards  released  by 
abandoning  Sicily,  Apulia,  and  Capua  to  Roger.  He 
had  also  some  severe  conflicts  with  the  king  of  France, 
and  the  Romans,  having  revolted  against  his  govern- 
ment, re-established  the  senate,  and  declared  themselves 
independent.  In  the  midst  of  these  troubles  Innocent 
died,  Sept.  23,  1143.  Sec  Herzog,  Real-  Ency  klop.  s.  v. ; 
Fabricius,  Bill.  Lot.  med.  et  inf.  cet.  iv,  33 ; Lannes, 
Pontificat  du  Pape  innocent  11  (Paris,  1741,  8vo) ; Mos- 
heim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xii,  pt.  ii,  ch.  ii;  Neander,  History 
of  the.  Christian  Religion  and  Church,  iv,  75,  144,  255. 

Innocent  III  (a)  ( Lothario  Conti),  by  far  the 
greatest  pope  of  this  name,  was  born  of  a noble  family 
of  Rome  at  Anagni  in  11G1.  After  a course  of  much 
distinction  at  Paris,  Bologna,  and  Rome,  he  was  made 
cardinal;  and  eventually,  in  1198,  was  elected,  at  the 
unprecedentedly  early  age  of  thirty-seven,  a successor 
of  pope  Celestine  III.  While  at  the  high  schools  of 
Rome,  Paris,  and  Bologna,  he  had  greatly  distinguished 
himself  in  the  studies  of  philosophy,  theology,  and  the 
canon  law,  and  also  by  several  written  compositions,  es- 
pecially by  his  treatise  De  Miseria  Conditionis  Huma- 
na1. “The  gloomy  aseetic  views  which  he  took  in  this 
work  of  the  world  and  of  human  nature  show  a mind 
filled  with  contempt  for  all  worldly  motives  of  action, 
and  not  likely  to  be  restrained  in  forwarding  what  he 
considered  to  be  his  paramount  duty  by  any  of  the  com- 
mon feelings  of  leniency,  conciliation,  or  concession, 
which  to  a man  in  his  situation  must  have  appeared 
sinful  weaknesses.  II is  ambition  and  haughtiness  were 
apparently  not  personal.  Ilis  interest  seems  to  have 
been  totally  merged  in  what  he  considered  the  sacred 
right  of  his  see,  ‘universal  supremacy,"  and  the  sincer- 
ity of  his  conviction  is  shown  by  the  steady,  uncompro- 
mising tenor  of  his  conduct,  and  by  a like  uniformity  of 
sentiments  and  tone  throughout  his  writings,  and  espe- 
cially his  numerous  letters.”  The  external  circum- 
stances of  his  time  also  furthered  Innocent’s  views,  and 
enabled  him  to  make  his  pontificate  the  most  marked 


in  the  annals  of  Rome;  the  culminating  point  of  the 
temporal  as  well  as  the  spiritual  supremacy  of  the  Ro- 
man see.  “The  emperor  Henry  VI,  king  of  Italy,  and 
also  of  .Sicihr,  had  lately  died,  and  rival  candidates  were 
disputing  for  the  crown  of  Germany,  while  Constance 
of  Sicily,  Henry’s  widow,  was  left  regent  of  Sicily  and 
Apulia  in  the  name  of  her  infant  son  Frederick  II.  In- 
nocent, asserting  his  claim  of  suzerainty  over  the  king- 
dom of  Sieilv,  confirmed  the  regency  to  Constance,  but 
at  the  same  time  obtained  from  her  a surrender  of  all 
disputed  points  concerning  the  pontifical  pretensions 
over  those  fine  territories.  Constance  dying  shortly 
after,  Innocent  himself  assumed  the  regency  during 
Frederick’s  minority.  At  Rome,  availing  himself  of  the 
vacancy  of  the  imperial  throne,  he  bestowed  the  investi- 
ture on  the  prefeet  of  Rome,  whom  he  made  to  swear 
allegiance  to  himself,  thus  putting  an  end  to  the  former, 
though  often  eluded  claim  of  the  imperial  authority  over 
that  city.  In  like  manner,  being  favored  by  the  people, 
ever  jealous  of  the  dominion  of  foreigners,  he  drove  away 
the  imperial  feudatories,  such  as  Conrad,  duke  of  .Spoleti 
and  count  of  Assisi,  and  Mareualdus,  marquis  of  Ancona, 
and  took  possession  of  those  provinces  in  the  name  of 
the  Roman  see.  He  likewise  claimed  the  exarchate  of 
Ravenna;  but  the  archbishop  of  that  city  asserted  his 
own  prior  rights,  and  Innocent,  says  the  anonymous  bi- 
ographer, ‘ prudently  deferred  the  enforcement  of  his 
claims  to  a more  fitting  opportunity.’  The  towns  of 
Tuscany,  with  the  exception  of  Pisa,  threw  off  their  al- 
legiance to  the  empire,  and  formed  a league  with  Inno- 
cent for  their  mutual  support.  It  was  on  this  occasion 
that  Innoeent  wrote  that  famous  letter  in  which  he  as- 
serts that,  ‘as  God  created  two  luminaries,  one  superior 
for  the  day,  and  the  other  inferior  for  the  night. which 
last  owes  its  splendor  entirely  to  the  first,  so  lie  has  dis- 
posed that  the  regal  dignity  should  be  but  a reflection 
of  the  splendor  of  the  papal  authority,  and  entirely  sub- 
ordinate to  it.’”  It  was  in  the  affairs  of  Germany,  how- 
ever, that  Innocent’s  position  most  clearly  manifested 
the  greatness  of  the  papal  power  over  the  destinies  of 
the  world.  Setting  himself  up  as  supreme  arbitrator 
between  the  two  claimants  who  were  contending  for  the 
imperial  crown,  he  decided  (in  1201)  in  favor  of  Otho, 
because  he  descended  from  “ a race  (well)  devoted  to 
the  Church,”  with  the  condition  that  the  disputed  con- 
cession of  the  countess  Mathilda  be  wholly  resigned  to 
the  decisions  of  the  holy  see ; and,  as  a natural  conse- 
quence, he  proceeded  at  the  same  time  to  excommunicate 
Otlio’s  rival,  Philip.  In  spite  of  a determined  resistance 
of  Philip  and  his  friends,  which  for  a time  seemed  al- 
most to  prove  successful,  but  which  finally  ended  in  the 
assassination  of  Philip,  Innoeent’s  triumph  in  Germany 
was  complete,  and  his  vassal  emperor  Otho  was  made 
temporal  lord  of  the  West.  But  a further  triumph 
crowned  the  efforts  of  Innoeent  in  Germany  only  a short 
time  after.  Otho,  incurring  the  displeasure  of  the  pope 
by  his  estrangement  from  the  papal  see,  was  excommu- 
nicated and  deposed  in  1210,  and  Innoeent’s  own  ward, 
Frederick  of  Sicily,  was  brought  forward  as  a candidate 
for  the  vacated  throne,  and  finally  crowned  emperor  at 
Aix-la-Chapelle,  with  the  approval  of  the  fourth  Latcran 
Council  (A.I).  1215).  “For  the  seeond  time  Innocent 
was  triumphant,  in  Germany.  Twice  he  had  decided 
an  imperial  election.  Against  one  of  the  emperors 
whom  he  supported  he  had  made  his  sentence  of  ex- 
communication and  deposition  valid;  the  other  he  had 
put  forward,  intending  him  to  be  a mere  puppet  and  in- 
strument in  his  own  hands”  (Reiehel).  But;  if  Inno- 
cent proved  himself  a great  statesman,  it  must  be  con- 
ceded also  that  he  was  very  much  unlike  many  of  his 
predecessors,  very  striet.  and  uncompromising  in  his  no- 
tions of  discipline  and  morality.  Irregularity  and  ve- 
nality were  repressed  everywhere  as  soon  as  discovered. 
Thus  he  excommunicated  Philip  Augustus  of  France 
because  he  had  repudiated  his  wife  Ingerburga  of  Den- 
mark, and  had  married  Agnes  de  Meranie.  “ The  in- 
terdict was  laid  on  France  : the  dead  lay  unburied ; the 


INNOCENT  III 


591 


INNOCENT  III 


living  were  deprived  of  the  services  of  religion.  Against 
an  antagonist  armed  with  such  weapons,  even  Philip 
Augustus,  brave  and  firm  though  he  was,  was  not  a 
match.  The  idea  of  the  papal  power  had  too  firmly 
taken  hold  of  men’s  minds;  the  French  would  gladly 
have  remained  true  to  their  king;  they  dared  not  dis- 
obey the  vicar  of  Christ.  Besides,  as  in  the  case  of 
Nicholas  I’s  intervention  with  Lothair,  Innocent’s  pow- 
er was  exercised  on  behalf  of  morality.  Philip  was 
obliged  to  take  back  his  divorced  wife,  not  yielding,  as 
one  of  his  predecessors,  Robert  I of  France  (996-1031), 
had  done,  to  a feeble  superstition;  not  subdued,  like 
Ilenry  IV,  by  internal  dissensions,  but  vanquished  in 
open  fight  with  an  opponent  stronger  than  himself.” 
As  we  have  already  said,  the  external  circumstances  of 
that  day  seem  to  have  favored  Innocent,  and  enabled 
him  “to  assert  without  concealment  the  idea  of  papal 
theocracy;”  that  the  pope  was  “the  vicegerent  of  God 
upon  earth;”  that  to  him  “was  intrusted  by  St. Peter 
the  government  not  only  of  the  whole  Church,  but  of 
the  whole  world.”  “ Next  to  God,  he  was  to  be  so  hon- 
ored by  princes  that  their  claim  to  rule  was  lost  if  they 
failed  to  serve  him ; princes  might  have  power  on  earth, 
but  priests  had  power  in  heaven ; the  claim  of  princes 
to  rule  rested  ‘ on  human  might,  that  of  priests  on  divine 
ordinance.’  In  short,  all  the  prerogatives  which  had  once 
attached  to  the  emperors  were  wrested  from  them,  and 
transferred,  with  additions,  to  the  popes’’  (Reichel).  The 
same  fate  that  had  befallen  Philip  Augustus  threatened 
king  Leon  of  Spain  for  a marriage  of  his  own  cousin,  the 
daughter  of  the  king  of  Portugal.  Not  willing  to  sub- 
mit to  the  pope’s  decision  against  such  a marriage,  and 
supported  in  his  resolution  by  his  father-in-law,  excom- 
munication was  first  resorted  to,  followed  by  an  interdict 
on  both  kingdoms.  Not  more  successful,  though  en- 
gaged in  a much  better  cause,  was  John,  king  of  England. 
John  having  appointed  John  de  Gray,  bishop  of  Nor- 
wich, to  the  vacant  see  of  Canterbury,  Innocent  would 
not  approve  the  selection,  and  bestowed  the  canonical 
investiture  upon  Stephen  Langton;  and  the  monks  of 
Canterbury,  of  course,  could  and  would  receive  no  other 
archbishop.  In  a fit  of  rage,  John  drove  away  the  monks 
and  seized  their  property,  for  which  the  whole  kingdom 
was  laid  under  an  interdict ; and,  as  John  continued  re- 
fractor3r,  the  pope  pronounced  his  deposition,  released 
his  vassals  from  their  oath  of  allegiance,  and  called  upon 
all  Christian  princes  and  barons  to  invade  England  and 
dethrone  the  impious  tyrant,  promising  them  the  remis- 
sion of  their  sins.  By  the  consequent  preparation  of 
Philip  Augustus  of  France  to  carry  out  the  pope’s  invi- 
tation, John  was  not  only  forced  to  yield  the  .point  in 
dispute,  agreeing  to  submit  to  the  pope’s  will  and  pay 
damages  to  the  banished  clergy,  but  he  even  took  an 
oath  of  fealty  to  the  Roman  see,  and  at  the  same  time 
delivered  to  the  papal  envoy  a charter  testifying  that 
he  surrendered  to  pope  Innocent  and  his  successors  for- 
ever the  kingdom  of  England  and  lordship  of  Ireland, 
to  be  held  as  fiefs  of  the  holy  see  by  John  and  his  suc- 
cessors, on  condition  of  their  paying  an  annual  tribute 
of  700  marks  of  silver  for  England  and  BOO  for  Ireland. 
Nor  were  England  and  Sicily  the  only  countries  over 
which  Innocent  acquired  the  rights  of  a feudal  suzerain. 
“ In  order  to  make  his  crown  independent  of  his  power- 
ful vassals,  and  to  baffle  the  claim  to  supremacy  of  the 
king  of  Castile,  Peter  II  of  Aragon  voluntarily  made 
himself  tributary  to  the  pope,  binding  himself  and  his 
successors  to  the  annual  payment  of  200  pieces  of  gold. 
In  return,  he  was  crowned  by  Innocent  at  Rome,  and 
took  an  oath  to  the  pope  as  his  feudal  suzerain.  From 
Innocent,  too,  as  his  liege  lord,  John,  duke  of  Bavaria, 
accepted  the  kingly  crown.  Denmark  looked  to  him, 
and  obtained  from  him  justice  and  redress  for  the  injury 
inflicted  on  her  royal  daughter;  and  his  legate  was  dis- 
patched to  Iceland,  to  warn  the  inhabitants  not  to  sub- 
mit to  the  excommunicated  and  apostate  priest  Severo. 
Perhaps  it  was  well  that  in  those  ages  there  should  be 
some  recognised  tribunal  and  fountain  for  royal  honor; 


and  in  times  of  turbulence  princes  probably  gained  more 
than  they  lost  by  becoming  the  vassals  of  the  pontiffs. 
Still,  such  power  vested  in  the  hands  of  an  ecclesiastic 
was  a new  thing  in  the  Church,  and  placed  beyond  dis- 
pute the  greatness  which  the  papal  power  had  reached” 
(Beiehelj. 

If,  as  we  have  seen,  Innocent  III  would  admit  of  no 
compromises  with  immorality  and  irregularity,  he  was 
certainly  stern  and  even  more  unflinching  in  his  deal- 
ings with  all  those  who  separated  themselves  from  the 
body  of  the  Romish  Church.  “To  him,  every  offence 
against  religion  was  a crime  against  society,  and,  in 
his  ideal  Christian  republic,  every  heresy  was  a re- 
bellion which  it  was  the  duty  of  the  rulers  to  resist  and 
repress.”  To  extirpate  this,  “ the  deadliest  of  sins,”  he 
sent  two  legates,  with  the  title  of  inquisitors,  to  France. 
One  of  them,  Castelnau,  having  become  odious  by  his 
severities,  was  murdered  near  Toulouse,  upon  which  In- 
nocent ordered  a crusade  against  the  Albigenses  (q.  v.), 
excommunicated  Raymond,  count  of  Toulouse,  for  abet- 
ting them,  and  bestowed  his  domains  on  Simon,  count 
ofMontfort.  lie  addressed  himself  to  all  the  faithful, 
exhorting  them  “ to  light  strenuously  against  the  min- 
isters of  the  old  serpent,”  and  promising  them  tho  king- 
dom of  heaven  in  reward.  lie  sent  two  legates  to  at- 
tend the  crusade,  and  their  lettefs  or  reports  to  him  are 
contained  in  the  collection  of  his  “ Epistles”  (especially 
Epistola  108  of  B.  xii,  in  which  the.  legate  Arnaldus  re- 
lates the  taking  of  Beziers,  and  the  massacre  of  30,000 
individuals  of  every  age,  sex,  and  condition).  Innocent, 
however,  who  did  not  live  to  see  the  end  of  the  confla- 
gration he  had  kindled,  can  hardly  be  held  responsible 
for  the  fearful  excesses  into  which  it  ran.  In  1215  he 
convened  a general  council  at  the  Lateran,  in  which  he 
inculcated  the  necessity  of  a new  crusade,  which  he  re- 
garded not  merely  as  lawful,  but  even  a most  glorious 
undertaking  in  behalf  of  religion  and  piety,  lie  also 
launched  fresh  anathemas  against  heretics,  determined 
several  points  of  doctrine  and  discipline,  especially  con- 
cerning auricular  confession,  and  sanctioned  the  es- 
tablishment of  the  two  great,  mendicant  monastic  or- 
ders, the  Dominicans  and  Franciscans,  the  former  to  ex- 
tirpate heresy,  and  the  latter  to  preach  sound  doctrines, 
and  to  assist  the  parochial  clergy  in  the  execution  of 
their  duties.  For  if  ever  watchfulness  was  required  by 
the  clergy,  it  was  at  this  time.  “It  was  in  this  very 
century  that  the  darkness  of  the  Middle  Ages  began  to 
disappear.  It  was  during  this  very  reign  of  Innocent 
III  that  the  gray  dawn  of  twilight  gave  the  iirst  prom- 
ise of  modern  intelligence  and  modern  independence. 
. . . Nothing  could  be  more  evident  than  that  this  spir- 
it of  independence,  that  was  everywhere  raising  its  men- 
acing front,  if  not  either  subjugated  or  controlled,  would 
revolutionize  the  whole  structure  of  society,  both  feudal 
and  ecclesiastical.  To  control  or  subjugate  the  new 
spirit  was  therefore  the  great  problem  presented  to  the 
Church  of  the  13th  century”  (I’rof.  C.  K.  Adams,  in  the 
Xew- Englander,  July,  1870,  p.  370).  But  if,  by  estab- 
lishing these  mendicant  orders,  Innocent  III  had  pro- 
vided himself  with  willing  minions  to  spread  over  Eu- 
rope, and  to  purify  the  Church  from  “modem  intelli- 
gence” and  “modern  independence,”  he  had  certainly,  at 
the  same  time,  created  lor  himself  an  opposition  which 
afterwards  became  a still  greater  danger  to  the  hierar- 
chy itself,  by  the  opposition  which  these  mendicant  or- 
ders created  among  the  laity  against  the  parochial  cler- 
gy (compare  Reiehel,  p.  576  sq.).  It  remains  for  us 
only  to  add  one  of  the  greatest  achievements  of  Inno- 
cent’s day,  undertaken  by  him,  no  doubt,  that  nothing 
might,  be  wanting  to  the  completeness  of  his  author- 
ity throughout  the  then  known  world,  viz.  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  Latin  kingdom  at  Jerusalem,  and  the 
Latin  conquest  of  Constantinople,  which  Ffoulkes  ( Chris - 
tendom's  Divisions , ii,  226),  while  yet  a communicant 
of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  does  not  hesitate  to 
pronounce  “one  of  the  foulest  acts  ever  perpetrated 
under  the  garb  of  religion  in  Christian  times ; a sorry 


INNOCENT  III  592  INNOCENT  Y 


connection,  unquestionably,  for  one  of  his  high  position 
and  commanding  abilities.”  At  the  very  commence- 
ment of  his  pontificate.  Innocent  began  writing  epistles 
(209  of  13.  xi)  to  the  patriarch  of  Constantinople,  and 
other  letters  to  the  emperor  Alexius,  with  the  view  of 
inducing  the  former  to  acknowledge  the  supremacy  of 
the  see  of  Rome ; and  although  he  failed  in  this,  he  had, 
soon  after,  by  an  unexpected  turn  of  events,  the  satis- 
faction of  consecrating  a prelate  of  the  Western  Church 
as  patriarch  of  Constantinople;  but  this  by  no  means 
resulted,  as  Innocent  most  probably  desired,  in  a reunion 
of  churches  or  Christians ; it  was  only  followed  by  an 
increase  of  Church  revenues.  The  Crusaders,  whom  In- 
nocent had  sent  forth,  as  he  thought,  for  the  reconquest 
of  the  Holy  Land,  after  taking  Zara  from  the  king  of 
Hungary,  for  which  they  were  severely  censured  by  the 
pope,  proceeded  to  attack  Constantinople,  and  overthrew 
the  Creek  empire.  All  this  was  done  without  Inno- 
cent’s sanction;  but  when  Baldwin  wrote  to  him,  ac- 
quainting him  with  the  full  success  of  the  expedition. 
Innocent,  in  his  answer  to  the  marquis  of  Montferrat, 
forgave  the  Crusaders  in  consideration  of  the  triumph 
which  they  had  secured  to  the  holy  Church  over  the 
Eastern  empire.  Innocent  sent  also  legates  to  Calo  Jo- 
hannes, prince  of  the  Bulgarians,  who  acknowledged  his 
allegiance  to  the  Roman  see  (Innocentii  III  Epistohe). 
One  year  after  the  Lateran  Council,  “one  of  the  latest 
acts,  and  by  far  the  most  momentous  in  the  pontificate 
of  Innocent,”  he  was  seized  with  a fatal  illness,  and  died 
July  Id,  1216,  in  the  very  prime  of  life,  broken  down  by 
overwork,  for  “ the  work  of  the  whole  world  was  upon 
him,  as  may  be  seen  from  his  letters,  not  one  of  which 
exhibits  the  impress  of  any  other  mind  than  his  own.” 
In  Innocent  III  the  Romish  Church  lost,  one  of  the  most 
extraordinary  characters,  and  in  several  respects  the 
most  illustrious,  as  he  was  certainly  one  of  the  most  am- 
bitious she  has  ever  honored  with  the  pontifical  dignity. 
Ilis  pontificate  may  be  fairly  considered  to  have  been 
the  period  of  the  highest  power  of  the  Roman  see.  At 
his  death,  “England  and  France,  Germany  and  Italy, 
Norway  and  Hungary,  all  felt  the  power  of  Innocent ; 
Navarre,  Castile,  and  Portugal  acknowledged  his  sway ; 
even  Constantinople  owned  his  supremacy,  and  owned 
it  to  her  cost”  (Reichel,p.  247 ; compare  llallam,  Middle 
Apes,  vol.  ii,  pt.  i,  ch.  vii,  p.  199).  His  works,  consisting 
principally  of  letters  and  sermons,  and  the  remarkable 
treatise  On  the  Misery  of  the  Condition  of  Man,  above 
alluded  to,  were  published  in  two  vols.  folio  (Par.  1682). 
See  Baronins,  Ammles;  Pagi,  Breriarium  llist or. -critic 
cum  : Lannes,  ilisfoire  du  I'ontifcat  da  Pape  Jnnoe.  JJ  / 
(Paris,  1741, 12mo);  Fabricius,  Bill.  Bat.  med.  et  inf  alt. 
iv,  93  sq. ; History  of  the  Christ.  Church,  in  Encyclop. 
Metrop.  vol.  iii,  ch.  i ; Moslieim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xii,  pt.  ii, 
chap,  ii ; Neander,  History  of  the  Christian  Religion  and 
Church,  iv,  43.  75,  173,  199, ‘207,  268,  269,  270,  272,  306, 
etc.;  lloefer,  Xouv.  Bioy.  Gener.  xxv,  890;  Bohringer, 
Kirche  Christi  in  Bioyraphien,  ii,  2,  321  ; Reieliel,  See 
of  Rome  in  the  Middle  Ayes  (Loud.  1870,  8vo),  p.  242  sq. ; 
Milman,  Bat.  Christ,  (see  Index) ; Bower,  History  of  the  | 
Popes,  x i,  183  sq. ; Wetzer  uAVelte,  Kirchen-Bex.  v,  631  | 
sq. ; Enylish  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v. ; Chambers,  Cyclopndia, 
s.  v. ; llurter,  Gesrhichte  Inn.  Ill  v.  seiner  Zeityenossenl 
(Hamburg,  1834-42, 4 vols.;  3d  ed.  1815  sq.).  (j.Il.W.) 

Innocent  III  ( h ).  Under  this  name  we  also  find 
an  anti-pope  in  the  Roman  Church.  1 lc  was  a descend- 
ant of  the  Frangipani  family,  and  is  distinguished  from 
the  eminent  pope  of  that  name  by  the  surname  Bandas. 
After  the  death  of  Hadrian  he  contested  the  succession 
of  Alexander  II,  who  succeeded  in  securing  his  person, 
and  Innocent  was  imprisoned  in  the  monastery  Cava. 
Thus  ended  a schism  which  had  lasted  twenty  years, 
under  four  successive  rivals  for  the  papal  throne.  (J. 
II.  W) 

Innocent  IV  (Sinibaldo  de'  Fieschi,  of  Genoa)  was 
elected  as  the  successor  of  Celestine  IV  in  the  year  1243. 
In  the  preceding  hitter  quarrels  between  Gregory  IX 
and  the  emperor  Frederick  11,  cardinal  Sinibaldo  had 


shown  himself  rather  friendly  towards  the  emperor;  and 
the  imperial  courtiers,  on  receiving  the  news  of  his  ex- 
altation, were  rejoicing  at  it ; but  the  experienced  Fred- 
erick checked  them  by  remarking,  “ I have  now'  lost  a 
friendly  cardinal,  to  find  another  hostile  pope:  no  pope 
can  bo  a Ghibelline.”  Anxious,  how’ever,  to  be  relieved 
from  excommunication,  Frederick  made  advances  to  the 
new  pope,  and  offered  conditions  advantageous  to  the 
Roman  see ; but  Innocent  remained  inflexible,  and,  sud- 
denly leaving  Rome,  went  to  Lyons,  and  there  sum- 
moned a council  in  1245,  to  which  he  invited  the  empe- 
ror. Thaddeus  of  Sessa  appeared  before  the  council  to 
answer  to  the  charges  brought  by  the  pope  against  Fred- 
erick ; and,  after  much  wrangling,  Innocent  excommu- 
nicated and  dethroned  the  emperor,  on  the  ground  of 
perjury,  sacrilege,  heresy,  and  defiance  of  the  Church, 
commanded  the  German  princes  to  elect  a new  empe- 
ror, and  reserved  the  disposal  of  the  kingdom  of  Sicily 
to  himself.  In  Italy  the  only  consequence  w'as  that  the 
war  u'hich  already  raged  hetw'een  the  Guelphs  and 
Ghibellines  continued  fiercer  than  before ; in  Germany  a 
contemptible  rival  to  Frederick  was  set  up  in  the  per- 
i son  of  Henry,  landgrave  of  Thuringia,  who  was  defeated 
by  Conrad,  Frederick’s  son.  Frederick’s  sudden  death 
in  Apulia,  A.U.  1250,  led  Innocent  to  return  to  Italy,  and 
to  offer  the  crown  of  Sicily  to  several  princes,  one  of 
whom,  Richard  of  Cornwall,  observed  that  the  pope’s  of- 
fer “was  much  like  making  him  a present  of  the  moon.” 
Conrad,  the  son  of  Frederick,  who  had  so  valiantly  and 
so  successfully  defended  his  cause,  was  excommunicated; 
but  he  gave  little  heed  to  this  act  of  Innocent’s,  and 
even  went  into  Italy  in  1252,  and  took  possession  of 
Apulia  and  Sicily.  Tw'O  years  after  he  died,  and  liis 
brother  Manfred,  who  became  regent,  in  a like  manner 
baffled  both  the  intrigues  and  the  open  attacks  of  the 
court  of  Rome.  Innocent  himself  died  soon  after,  at  the 
end  of  1254,  at  Rome,  leaving  Italy  and  Germany  in  the 
greatest  confusion  in  consequence  of  his  outrageous  ty- 
ranny, and  his  unbending  hostility  to  the  whole  house 
of  Swabia.  He  was  succeeded  by  Alexander  IV.  lie 
wrote  Apparatus  super  decretales  (fol.,  often  reprinted) : 
— Be  Potest  ate  Eeelesiastiemn  et  Jurisdiction  Imperii: — 
Officium  in  ovtavis  festi Natiritatis  B.  Maria: — Inter- 
pretations in  Yetus  Testamentum.  Nineteen  letters  of 
his  are  given  by  Labbe,  Concil.  xi,  598-632 ; forty-eight 
by  Ughelli,  Italia  Sacra ; and  five  hv  Duchesne,  Uistoi  ice 
Francorum  Scriptores,  v,  412, 861.  See  Labbe  and  Cos- 
sart.  Sacrosancta  Concilia,  xi,  597-716;  Bruys,  Hist.  d<s 
Papes,  iii,  199 ; Floury.  Hist  or.  Ecclesiustiqne ; Muratori, 
Rerum  Italicarum  Scriptores , iii,  589-592 ; I’ll,  de  Mor- 
nav,  Hist,  de  la  Papaute,  p.  376-404;  Ciaconius.  Vita:  et 
res  yestee  Pont  if  aim  Romanontm,  ii,  99;  Paolo  Panza, 
Vita  delyran  Pontifce  Iimoccnzio  Quarto  (Naples,  1601, 
4to) ; Reieliel,  See  of  Rome  in  the  Middle  Ayes  (London, 
1870.8vo),  p.  264  sq. ; 1 Iocfer, Four. Bioy.  Generale,  xxv, 
906;  Engl.  Cyclop.;  Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xiii,  pt.  ii, 
chap,  ii ; Neander.  History  of  the  Christian  Reliyion  and 
Church,  iv,  76,  183 ; Herzog,  Real- Encyllopadie,  vi.  668. 

Innocent  V ( Peter  of  Tarantasia,  also  called 
Peter  of  Champayni  or  of  f'hampayniaco)  was  born 
at  Moustier,  in  Savoy,  in  1225.  lie  was  elected  pope 
January  20, 1276,  as  successor  of  Gregory  X.  lie  was  a 
member  of  the  order  of  Preaching  Friars,  into  which  he 
had  entered  quite  young,  and  where  he  had  acquired 
a great  reputation.  lie  succeeded  Thomas  Aquinas  as 
| professor  of  theology  in  the  University  of  Paris;  was 
made  archbishop  of  Lyons  in  1272,  and  afterwards  bishop 
of  Ostia  and  grand  penitentiary.  As  soon  as  he  became 
pope  he  applied  himself  to  the  task  of  restoring  peace 
to  Italy,  which  was  then  divided  into  two  contending 
factions,  under  the  leadership  of  the  Guelphs  and  the 
Ghibellines  (q.  v.),  and  in  this  lie  measurably  succeeded. 
He  was  also  on  the  eve  of  inducing  the  Greek  emperor, 
Michel  Pakeologus,  to  confirm  the  act  of  union  between 
the  Greek  and  Roman  churches,  drawn  up  in  the  Coun- 
cil of  Lyons,  when  he  died  June  22,  1276,  having  occu- 
pied the  papal  throne  only  five  months.  He  wrote  com- 


INNOCENT  VI 


593 


INNOCENT  VIII 


mentaries  Super  iv  libros  Sententiurum  (Toulouse,  1G52, 

8 vols.  fol.) : — Super  Pentateuchum ; super  Lueam;  su-  J 
per  Epistolas  Pauli  (Cologne,  1478;  Antw.  1(517,  fol.) ; 
and  various  treatises : De  Cnitate  Formce  ; De  Materia 
Cali;  De  yEt  emit  ate  Forma;  De  Intellectu  et  Volun- 
tate;  and  some  other  MS.  works,  the  titles  of  which  are 
given  by  Quetif,  Scriptores  Ordinis  Pradieatorum  (Par- 
is, 1719,  2 vols.  fol.).  See  Labbe,  Concilia , xi,  1007 ; Cia- 
conius,  Vita  et  res  gesta  Pontijicum  Romanorum , ii,  203 ; 
Fleury,  llist.  Ecclesiastigue,  1.  xviii,  chap  lxxxvi ; Du- 
chesne, Uist.des  Papes , ii,  208;  Muratori,  Rerum  Jtali- 
carum  Scriptores , iii,  (505;  Power,  l list . of  the  Popes,  vi, 
301, 302 ; llerzog,  Real-Encykiop.  vi,  0(59 ; 1 Ioefer,  Xouv. 
Biogr.  Generate,  xxv,  908 ; Mosheim,  Eccles.  Hist.  cent, 
xiii,  pt.  ii,  eh.  ii. 

Innocent  VI  ( Etienne  d' Albert  or  A ubert),  a 
Frenchman,  succeeded  Clement  VI  in  1352.  He  resided 
at  Avignon,  like  his  immediate  predecessors;  but,  un- 
like them,  lie  put  a check  to  the  disorders  and  scan- 
dals of  that  court,  which  have  been  so  strongly  depicted 
by  Petrarch,  Viliam,  and  other  contemporary  writers, 
lie  reformed  the  abuses  of  the  reservations  of  benefices, 
and  enforced  the  residence  of  bishops  on  their  sees. 
His  immediate  predecessors  having  lost  their  influence 
in  the  States  of  the  Church,  Innocent  VI  determined  on 
reconquering  these  territories,  and  successfully  reoceu- 
pied,  with  the  assistance  of  the  warlike  cardinal  /Egid- 
ius  Albornoz,  the  various  provinces  of  the  papal  state 
which  had  been  seized  by  petty  tyrants.  He  then  sent 
back  to  Pome  the  former  demagogue  Cola  di  Rienzo, 
who,  being  still  dear  to  the  people,  repressed  the  inso- 
lence of  the  lawless  barons,  but  who,  becoming  himself 
intoxicated  with  his  power,  committed  acts  of  wanton 
cruelty,  upon  which  the  people  rose  and  murdered  him 
in  1354.  In  1358  the  emperor  Charles  IV  was  crowned 
at  Rome  by  a legate  deputed  by  pope  Innocent  for  the 
purpose.  Innocent  died  at  Avignon,  at  an  advanced 
age,  in  1362.  It  was  during  his  pontificate  that  the 
mendicant  orders  were  persecuted  in  England,  and  de- 
ed ired  to  be  an  unchristian  order  by  Richard,  arch- 
bishop of  Armagh  and  primate  of  Ireland,  in  a book 
which  he  published  in  defence  of  the  curates  or  parish 
priests,  entitled  Dfensorium  Curatorum.  Of  course  In- 
nocent rallied  to  the  defense  of  the  mendicants.  He 
reprimanded  the  archbishop,  and  confirmed  anew  all  the 
privileges  which  had  been  granted  by  his  predecessors 
to  men  of  that  order.  A letter  of  his  is  given  by  Labbe, 
Concilia,  xi,  1930  ; four  by  Ughelli,  Italia  Sacra  ; and 
two  hundred  and  fifty  by  Martene,  Thesaurus  novus  An- 
ecdotorum,  ii,  843-1072.  See  Duchesne,  Hist.iles  Papes, 
ii,  2G1 ; Fleury,  Hist.  Ecclesiastigue,  l.  xx,  chap,  lxxxvi ; 
Sismondi,  Hist,  des  Frangais,  x,  397-59G ; Herzog,  Real- 
Encykiop.  vi,  G70;  Engl.  Cyclop.;  Hoefer,  None.  Biogr.  I 
Generate,  xxv,  910;  Neander,  Hist,  of  the  Christian  Re- 
ligion and  Church,  v,  44 ; Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xiv, 
pt.  ii,  ch.  ii ; Schlosser,  Weltgesch.  bk.  iv,  ch.  i,  408,  G18 ; 
Bower,  Hist,  of  the  Popes,  vi,  482  sq.  (.1.  II.  IV.) 

Innocent  VII  (cardinal  Cosmo  de  Migliorati.  of 
Sulmona),  who  had  been  appointed  archbishop  of  Ra- 
venna and  bishop  of  Bologna  by  Urban  VI,  was  elected 
by  the  Italian  prelates  as  the  successor  of  Boniface  IX 
in  1404.  At  this  time  “ the  great  Western  schism”  agi- 
tated the  Romish  Church,  the  French  cardinals  support- 
ing a rival  pope,  Benedict  XIII  (q.  v.),  who  held  his 
court  at  Avignon,  acknowledged  by  a part  of  Europe. 
After  the  election  of  Innocent,  a tumult  broke  out  in 
Rome,  excited  by  the  Colonna  and  by  Ladislaus,  king 
of  Naples,  which  obliged  the  pope  to  escape  to  Viterbo. 
Ladislaus,  however,  failed  in  his  attempt  upon  Rome; 
and  Innocent,  having  returned  to  his  capital,  excommu- 
nicated him.  Innocent  died  Nov.  (5,  140(5,  after  having 
made  his  peace  with  Ladislaus.  Some  think  that  he 
was  poisoned.  He  is  spoken  of  as  a man  who  possessed 
great  learning  and  virtue,  and  as  governed  by  the  purest 
motives  in  all  his  acts;  hostile  to  all  luxury,  avari- 
ciousness, and  simony — evils  which  were  one  and  all 
possessed  by  his  rival  Benedict,  and  by  his  own  prede- 


cessor Boniface  (comp.  Reiehel,  See  of  Rome  in  the  Mid- 
dle Ages,  p.  44(5  sq.).  The  charge  which  some  lay  to 
him  that  he  did  not  keep  the  promise  which  he  gave 
on  his  accession  to  the  papal  see  that  he  would,  if  his 
rival  should  be  declared  the  proper  incumbent,  vacate 
the  papal  throne,  seems  not  well  founded.  It  is  true 
Benedict  proposed  a conference  for  the  alleged  purpose 
of  restoring  peace  and  union  to  the  Church  of  Rome, 
which  Innocent  did  not  agree  to,  but  this  was  done  be- 
cause Innocent  knew  that  Benedict  did  not  earnestly 
desire  it.  lie  wrote  Oratio  de  Ecclesiastica  Unione; 
A pprobatio  regulm  patrum  et  sororum  de  penitentia  or- 
dinis S.  Dominici;  and  a letter  of  his  is  published  by 
Ughelli,  Italia  Sacra,  i,  1381.  See  Labbe,  Concilia,  xi, 
2082;  Fleury,  Hist.  Ecclesiastigue,  1.  xx,  ch.  xeix:  Du- 
chesne, Hist,  des  Papes,  ii,  299 ; Sismondi,  Histoire  des 
Frangais,  xii,  211 ; Maimbourg,  Hist,  du  grand  Schisme 
d' Occident ; Bruni  d’ Arezzo,  De  Rebus  Italicis,  and  E pis- 
toles Fumiliares;  Herzog,  Real-Encykiop.  \ i,  671 ; Mos- 
heim, Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xv,  pt.  ii,  eh.  ii ; llefele,  Concilien- 
geschichte,  vi,  748  sq.;  lloefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gener.  xxv, 
911 ; Neander,  Hist,  of  the  Christ.  Religion  and  Church , 
v,  70,  247 ; Bower,  History  of  the  Popes,  vii,  91  sq.  (J. 
II.  W.) 

Innocent  VIII  (cardinal  Giovami  Battista  Cibo), 
a Genoese  of  Greek  descent,  was  during  his  youth  in 
the  service  of  Alfonso  of  Aragon,  king  of  Naples,  but 
subsequently  entered  the  Church,  Paul  II  giving  him 
the  bishopric  of  Savone.  His  conduct  was  disgracefully 
irregular:  he  had  seven  illegitimate  children  by  differ- 
ent women,  and  was,  besides,  married  when  he  took  or- 
ders. x\t  the  death  of  Sixtus  IV  serious  troubles  broke 
out  in  Rome.  The  election  was  warmly  contested,  and 
among  the  chief  agitators  was  chancellor  Borgia,  who 
afterwards  attained  an  unenviable  celebrity  as  Alexander 
VI;  but  the  manoeuvres  in  favor  of  Cibo  proved  at  last 
successful.  Innocent  had  bought  the  tiara  by  means  of 
benefices,  legations,  palaces,  and  large  sums  of  money, 
and  was  elected  Aug.  24,  1481.  His  first  undertaking 
was  to  conciliate  the  Italian  princes,  and  to  reconcile  to 
the  papal  see  all  those  whom  his  predecessor  bad  alien- 
ated. Frightened  at  the  advance  of  Bajazet  with  his 
Turks,  Innocent  wrote  to  the  Christian  princes  for  help 
in  men  or  money  to  resist  the  invasion.  Immense  sums 
were  at  once  forwarded  to  Rome  from  divers  countries; 
but  the  pope,  pretending  that  he  could  not  act  without 
the  assistance  of  the  German  princes  (who  were  then 
divided  by  the  quarrels  between  Mathias,  king  of  Hun- 
gary, and  emperor  Frederick,  Albert  of  Brandenburg 
and  Otho  of  Bavaria,  etc.),  used  the  funds  thus  obtained 
to  war  against  Ferdinand  I,  king  of  Naples,  who  refused 
to  pay  him  the  usual  tribute.  The  pope  favored  the  re- 
volted Neapolitan  barons  against  Ferdinand  I of  Naples, 
in  consequence  of  which  the  troops  of  Ferdinand  rav- 
aged the  territory  of  Rome ; but  through  the  mediation 
of  Lorenzo  de  Medici  and  of  the  duke  Sforza  of  Milan, 
peace  was  re-established  between  the  two  parties.  The 
Turks  were  still  threatening  war.  Jem,  in  order  to 
slum  the  enmity  of  his  brother  Bajazet,  had  fled  to 
Rhodes,  where  he  was  seized  by  the  grand  master  of 
the  order  of  St.  John,  D'Aubusson,  and  delivered  up  to 
the  pope  in  exchange  for  the  cardinal’s  hat.  The  pope 
received  Jem  with  great  honor,  but  took  care  to  secure 
his  person,  as  be  would  be  an  important  hostage.  In 
this  he  was  not  mistaken,  for  Bajazet  feared  the  power 
of  his  brother,  and,  to  secure  his  throne,  he  sent  an  am- 
bassador to  Rome  to  offer  Innocent  a large  sum  if  he 
would  keep  Jem  in  prison.  The  pope  accepted  the  dis- 
honorable bargain,  although  the  sultan  of  Egypt,  who 
desired  Jem,  as  commander  in  chief  of  his  forces,  to 
march  against  Bajazet,  offered,  on  condition  of  his  re- 
lease, to  restore  Jerusalem  to  the  Christians,  and  was 
even  ready  to  pledge  himself  to  surrender  to  the  pope 
all  the  territory  that  should  be  taken  from  the  Turks. 
Under  Innocent’s  successor,  the  depraved  Alexander  VI, 
Jem  was  poisoned  by  order  of  the  pope  (comp.  Reiehel, 
See  of  Rome  in  the  Middle  Ages,  p.  530).  Bajazet,  of 


INNOCENT  IX  594  INNOCENT  X 


course,  showed  himself  very  generous  towards  his  ac- 
complice, Innocent  VIII.  On  May  29,  1492,  he  sent 
him  the  iron  of  the  spear  with  which,  he  asserted, 
Christ  was  pierecd  on  the  cross,  and  which  was  among  j 
the  booty  taken  by  Mohammed  II  after  the  downfall 1 
of  Constantinople.  ‘ The  relic  (although  received  with 
great  ceremony)  was,  unfortunately,  the  third  of  the 
kiud  in  Europe,  for  the  emperor  of  Germany  claimed 
to  have  the  holy  lance  at  Nuremberg,  and  the  king  of 
France  in  the  iloly  Chapel  at  Paris.  Innocent  VIII 
died  July  25,  1492.  Among  the  principal  acts  of  his 
administration  are  the  confirmation,  in  1485,  of  the  (ri- 
der of  the  Conception,  founded  at  Toledo  by  Beatrix 
of  Sylva ; the  canonization  of  Leopold  of  Austria  in 
1485*;  the  condemnation  of  the  propositions  of  Miran- 
dola  in  1487 ; the  union  under  the  crown  of  Spain  of  the 
three  military  orders  of  Calatrava,  St.  James,  and  Alcan- 
tara, in  1488  ; and  the  confirmation  of  the  Brother- 
hood of  Mercy,  instituted  at  Borne  for  the  benefit  of 
condemned  criminals.  Two  letters  of  Innocent  are  pub- 
lished by  Ughelli,  Italia  Sacra,  i,  710;  v,  948.  Roman 
Catholic  writers  endeavor  to  free  Innocent  VIII  from 
the  charge  of  gross  immorality  by  asserting  that  he  had 
only  two  illegitimate  children,  and  that  they  were  born 
before  he  was  made  pope;  but  “ the  success  of  Innocent 
VIII  in  increasing  the  population  of  Rome  was  a favor- 
ite topic  with  the  wits  of  the  day”  (Innocuo  priseos 
sequum  est  debere  Quirites.  Progenie  exhaustavn  resti- 
tuit  patriam. — Sannazarii  Epigram,  lib.  i),  and  he  was 
graced  with  “the  epitaph  which  declared  that  filth, 
gluttony,  avarice,  and  sloth  lay  buried  in  his  tomb” 
(Marultus,  Epigram,  lib.  iv).  But  the  conduct  of  Inno- 
cent VIII  can  hardly  compare  with  the  career  of  his 
successor,  Alexander  VI,  “the  most  depraved  of  all  the 
popes,  uniting  in  himself  all  the  vices  of  Innocent  VIII 
and  the  unscrupulous  family  ambition  of  Sixtus  IV.” 
Indeed,  all  the  latter  half  of  the  10th  century  scarcely 
saw  a supreme  pontiff  without  the  visible  evidences  of 
human  frailty  around  him,  the  unblushing  acknowledg- 
ment of  which  is  the  fittest  commentary  on  the  tone  of 
clerical  morality  (Lea,  Hist,  of  Sacerdotal  Celibacy,  p. 
358,359).  See  Labhc,  Concilia,  xiii,  1405;  Fleurv,  Hist. 
EccUsiastique,  lib.  xxiii,  ch.  xv;  Duchesne,  llistorice 
Erancorum  Scriptores,  ii, 350 ; Sismondi,  / list,  des  Fran- 
cois; Ciaconius,  Yitce  et  res  gestce  Poniificum  Romano- 
rum,  iii,  90;  F.  Xerdonati,  1 'it a e Fatti  d'lnnocenzo  VIII 
(Milan,  1829,  8vo) ; Comines,  Memoires,  lib.  vii,  ch.  i; 
Herzog,  Reid-Encyklop.  vi,  072 ; Engl.  Cyclop. ; Hoefer, 
A our.  h'iog.  Cette  rede,  xxv,  912;  Ranke,  Hist,  of  the  Pa- 
pacy in  the  10 th  and  \ 7th  Centuries,  i,  43, 290;  Mosheim, 
Ch.  Hist.  p.  430 : Bower,  Hist,  of  the  Popes,  vii,  317  sip ; 
Wetzer  mid  Welte,  Kirchen-Lex.  v,  041  sq. ; Aschbacli, 
Kirchtn-Lexikon,  iii,  400  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Innocent  IX  (Giovanni  Antonio  Facch inetti), bom 
at  Bologna  in  1519,  had  distinguished  himself  as  papal 
legate  at  Trent,  afterwards  as  the  papal  nuncio  at  Ven- 
ice, and  as  president  of  the  Inquisition,  lie  was  elected 
pope  after  the  death  of  Gregory  XIV,  in  Oct.  1591.  He 
bore  a good  reputation  for  learning  and  piety,  but  he  was 
too  old  and  feeble  for  the  papal  chair,  and  constantly 
confined  to  his  bed  by  illness,  and  was  even  obliged  to 
give  his  audiences  there.  Notwithstanding  these  diffi- 
culties, however,  he  took  an  active  part  in  the  affairs  of 
France,  favoring  the  party  of  the  League  and  of  Spain, 
as  his  predecessor  Gregory  had  done.  A letter  of  his  is 
still  extant  (in  Cavet,  Chronologic  novenaire),  in  which 
he  urges  Alexander  Farnese  to  hasten  the  equipment  of 
his  troops,  to  invade  France,  and  to  relieve  Rouen,  all 
which  that  general  forthwith  executed  with  so  much 
success  and  skill,  lie  died  Dec.  30,  1591,  after  a short 
reign  of  ouly  two  months,  and  was  succeeded  by  Cle- 
ment VIII.  See  Labbe,  Concilia,  xv,  1430;  Duchesne, 
llistorice  Erancorum  Scriptores,  ii,  457 ; Fleurv.  Hist. 
Eccles.  1.  xxvi,  chap,  clxxix;  Sismondi,  Hist,  des  Fran- 
qais,  xxi,  124;  B.  Justiuiani,  Oratio  hahita  in  future  In- 
nocent ii  IX  (Rome,  1592,  4to);  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop. 
vi,  G73;  English  Cyclop .;  Ilucfer,  Xouv.  JJioy,  Generale, 


xxv,  914;  Ranke.  History  of  the  Popes  of  the  16 th  and 
Mth  Cent,  ii,  231,  232:  Mosheim,  Eccles.  Ilist.  cent,  xvi, 
sec.  iii,  pt.  i,  ch.  i.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Innocent  X (cardinal  Giovanni  Battista  Panfli), 
bom  at  Rome  in  1572,  was  ilected  in  Sept.  1644,  after 
the  death  of  Urban  VIII.  He  was  then  seventy-three 
years  of  age,  and  wholly  under  the  control  of  his  sister- 
in-law,  Donna  Olimpia  Maiilalchini  Panfili,  who  appears 
to  have  been  an  unprincipled  woman,  very  fond  of  mon- 
ey, and  anxious  to  aggrandize  her  relatives.  Innocent, 
however,  displayed  in  several  instances  much  firmness, 
justice,  and  prudence,  and  a wish  to  protect  the  humble 
and  poor  against  the  oppressions  of  the  great.  He  di- 
minished the  taxes,  which  had  been  very  heavy  under 
his  predecessor, Urban  VIII,  and  at  the  same  time  em- 
bellished Rome.  The  people  of  Fermo,  on  the  Adriatic, 
revolted  against  their  governor,  being  exeited  by  the 
local  nobility  and  landholders,  who  were  irritated  against 
him  for  having  by  an  edict  of  annona  kept  the  price  of 
corn  low;  the  governor  and  other  official  persons  were 
murdered.  Innocent  sent  a commissioner  with  troops, 
and  the  guilty,  without  distinction  of  rank,  were  pun- 
ished, some  being  executed,  and  others  sent  to  the  gal- 
leys. The  district  of  Castro  and  Roneiglione,  near  Rome, 
was  still  in  possession  of  the  Farnese  dukes  of  Parma, 
notwithstanding  the  efforts  of  Urban  VIII  to  wrest  it 
from  them.  Disputes  about  jurisdiction  were  continu- 
ally taking  place  between  the  officers  of  the  duke  and 
those  of  the  pope.  Innocent  having  consecrated  a new 
bishop  of  Castro  who  was  not  acceptable  to  the  duke, 
the  latter  forbade  his  entering  his  territories,  and  as 
the  bishop  elect  persisted,  he  was  murdered  on  the  road. 
The  pope  immediately  sent  troops  to  attack  Castro, 
which  being  taken,  he  ordered  the  town  to  be  razed  to 
the  foundations,  and  a pillar  erected  on  the  site,  with 
the  inscription  “Qui  fii  Castro.”  He  showed  the  same 
resolution  against  the  Barberini,  who  had  opposed  his 
election,  and  was  a steadfast  enemy  of  cardinal  Mazarin, 
the  supporter  of  the  Barberini.  The  French  prelate, 
however,  outwitted  the  pope,  and  obliged  him  to  yield 
by  threatening  to  take  Avignon.  Innocent  also  took 
an  active  part  in  the  quarrel  between  the  Jesuits  and 
the  Jansenists.  As  early  as  1G50,  Hubert,  bishop  of 
Vabres,  bad  denounced  to  the  pope  five  propositions 
ascribed  to  Jansenius  (q.  v.),  which,  in  the  preceding 
year,  had  been  referred  to  the  theological  faculty.  In- 
nocent established  a special  congregation  to  examine 
them,  April  20, 1651.  De  Saint  Amour  and  some  oth- 
er theologians  sent  by  the  Jansenists  were  beard  May 
19, 1653,  but  P.  Annat.  a Jesuit,  informs  us  that  the  af- 
fair had  already  been  judged  and  decided  in  advance. 
Finally  a bull  was  issued;  Cum  occasione,  May  30, 1653, 
condemning  the  five  propositions.  It  was  received  in 
France,  and  published  by  order  of  Louis  XIV.  Innocent 
died  soon  after,  Jan.  6,  1654.  His  anxiety  to  further 
the  interests  of  Rome  throughout  the  world  is  manifest 
by  the  pecuniary  assistance,  which  he  afforded  the  Vene- 
tians and  Poles  in  their  wars  against  the  Turks,  by  his 
opposition  to  the  peace  of  Westphalia,  fearing  that  it 
endangered  the  Romish  tenets,  and  even  the  pontifical 
chair,  and  especially  bv  the  assistance  which  he  gave  to 
the  Irish  to  combat  the  English,  and,  if  possible,  to  re- 
gain the  English  territory  for  his  Church.  In  Germany, 
also,  he  secured,  hv  his  undaunted  efforts,  the  conversion 
of  several  princes  and  noblemen  of  influence,  lie  built 
two  beautiful  churches  in  Rome,  and  left  a well-filled 
treasury,  which  proved  very  useful  to  his  successor,  Al- 
exander VII.  Xee  Bruys,  Hist,  des  Papes,  v.  253;  Du- 
chesne, llistorice  Erancorum  Scriptores,  ii,  532;  Ciaeo- 
nins,  Vila?  et  res  gestce.  Pontifcum  Romcmorutn,  iv,  642; 
Sismondi,  Hist,  des  Eranquis,  xxiv,  78;  Relation  des  de- 
liberations du  clerge.  de  France  sur  la  Constitution  et  sur 
fe  Brefde  X.  S.  P.  le  pope  Innocent  X (Paris,  1656,  foL) ; 
De  Lalane,  Defense  de.  la  Constitution  du  pape  Innocent 
X,  etc.  (1655, 4to)  ; Vie  de  Madame  Olympe  M aldachini, 
qui  a goureme  TEglise  pendant  le  pontifical  cl' Innocent  X 
(Amst.  1666, 18mo) ; Memoires  du  Cardinal  dt  Betz,  1.  iii ; 


INNOCENT  XI 


595 


INNOCENT  XI 


L.de  Saint  Amour,  Journal  tie  ce  qui  s'estfuit  a Rome 
dans  V affaire  des  cinq  propositions  (Paris,  1062,  fol.)  ; J. 
C.  Bosstenschcr,  Ilistoria  Jnnocentii  X (1070, 4to) ; ller- 
zog,  Real-Encyclop.  vi,  073 ; Engl.  Cyclop. ; lloefcr,  Xouv. 
Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  915 ; Ranke,  Hist,  of  the  Pupacy,  i, 
182, 242 ; Mosheim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent.  xvii,  sec.  ii,  pt.  i,  cli.  i ; 
Aschbach,  Kirchen-Lex.  iii,  402  sq. 

Innocent  XI  (cardinal  Benedetto  Odesctdchi),  born 
at  Como  in  1011,  succeeded  Clement  X in  1070.  It  is 
said  by  some  that  he  was  a soldier  in  his  younger  days, 
though  this  has  been  denied  by  others  (Count  Torre 
Rezzonieo,  J)e  Suppositis  M ilitaribus  Stipeudiis  Bene- 
detto Odescalchi).  lie  was  a man  of  great  firmness  and 
courage,  austere  in  his  morals,  and  indexible  in  his  res- 
olutions, and  withal  one  of  the  most  distinguished  popes 
of  the  17th  century.  lie  inaugurated  many  reforms, 
reduced  very  materially  the  pomp  and  luxury  of  the 
papal  court,  and  suppressed  various  abuses.  His  ad- 
ministration was  entirely  free  from  the  weakness  of 
nepotism  which  had  so  greatly  sullied  the  fame  of  many 
of  the  pontiffs  who  had  preceded  him.  His  own  nephew 
he  obliged  to  live  at  Rome,  under  his  pontificate,  in  a 
private  character;  and  in  this  respect,  certainly,  he  has 
had  few  equals  in  the  pontifical  chair.  Indeed,  his  aus- 
•tcrity  was  so  great  that  it  made  him  many  enemies, 
and  oftentimes  estranged  even  some  who  would  gladly 
have  offered  him  their  friendship.  His  greatest  ene- 
mies, no  doubt,  were  the  Jesuitical  order,  which  he  was 
determined  to  crush  out.  The  principal  event  of  his 
pontificate,  however,  was  his  quarrel  with  the  imperious 
Louis  XIV  of  France,  particularly  provoked  by  the 
question  of  the  immunities  enjoyed  by  the  foreign  am- 
bassadors at  Rome,  an  event  which  exhibits  more  clear- 
ly than  any  other  act  of  his  both  his  own  character 
and  that  of  the  times,  and  deserves  a few  words  of 
explanation.  By  an  old  usage  or  prescription,  the  for- 
eign ambassadors  at  Rome  had  the  right  of  asylum,  not 
only  in  their  vast  palaces,  but  also  in  a certain  district 
or  boundary  around  them,  including  sometimes  a whole 
street  or  square,  which  the  officers  of  justice  or  police  > 
could  not  enter,  and  where,  consequently,  malefactors 
and  dissolute  persons  found  a ready  shelter.  These 
“quartieri,”  or  free  districts,  were  likewise  places  for  the 
sale  of  contraband  articles  and  for  defrauding  the  reve- 
nue. The  abuse  had  become  contagious:  several  of  the 
Roman  princes  and  cardinals  claimed  and  enforced  the 
same  rights  and  immunities,  so  that  only  a small  part 
of  the  city  was  left  under  the  sway  of  the  magistrates. 
The  classical  advocates  for  this  absurd  custom  quoted 
the  example  of  Romulus,  ay  ho  made  his  neAv  town  a 
refuge  for  all  the  laAvless  persons  of  the  neighborhood. 


first  calmly  and  Avith  sufficient  caution.  lie  Avould  not 
disturb  the  present  possessors  of  those  immunities,  but 
he  declared  and  made  it  officially  knoAvn  that  in  future 
he  Avould  not  give  audience  to  any  neAv  ambassador 
Avho  did  not  renounce  for  himself  and  his  successors 
these  abusive  claims.  All  the  great  poAvcrs  of  Europe 
took  umbrage  at  this  very  reasonable  determination; 
but  the  question  Avas  not  brought  to  a crisis  until  the 
death  of  the  mareehal  d’Estrees,  the  French  ambassa- 
dor at  Rome.  Just  before  Louis  XIV  had  appointed  the 
netv  ambassador,  the  pope  repeated  in  a bull,  dated  May, 
1687,  his  pre\rious  resoh'c.  In  A'ieAv  of  this  action  of 
the  pope,  AA’hieh  Louis  Avas  determined  not  to  observe, 
he  instructed  his  minister  “to  maintain  at  Rome  the 
rights  and  the  dignity  of  France;”  and  in  order  to  sup- 
port this  resolve,  he  gaAre  him  a numerous  retinue  of 
military  and  naval  officers,  Avho  Avere  to  frighten  the 
pope  in  his  oavh  capital.  LaA'ardin’s  entrance  into 
Rome  under  sueli  an  escort  resembled  that  of  a hostile 
commander.  He  had  also  been  preceded  by  seA'eral 
hundred  French  under-officers,  Avho  had  entered  Rome 
as  private  travellers,  but  Avho  took  their  quarters  near 
the  ambassador’s  palace,  ready  for  any  mischief.  Inno- 
cent, hoAvever,  remained  firm , he  refused  to  receive  the 


neAv  ambassador,  and  all  the  auger  of  Louis,  who  seized 
upon  Avignon,  and  threatened  to  send  a fleet  with  troops 
on  the  Roman  coast,  had  no  effect  upon  him.  Lavar- 
din,  having  remained  eighteen  months  at  Rome,  unable 
to  see  the  pope,  Avas  obliged  to  return  to  France  with 
his  credentials  unopened.  The  quarrel  was  not  adjust- 
ed till  the  following  pontificate ; but  the  distinct  immu- 
nities of  the  foreign  ambassadors  at  Rome  continued, 
after  various  modifications,  until  the  beginning  of  the 
19th  century.  This  quarrel  Avas,  hoAvever,  not  the  ini- 
tiative to  a misunderstanding  betAveen  the  tAvo  sover- 
eigns. It  bad  been  previously  opened  by  the  right 
AA’hicli  Louis  XIV  claimed  to  possess,  in  virtue  of  the 
Droit  de  Reyne,  to  appoint  to  vacant  benefices  in  his 
kingdom,  and  to  collect  the  rc\rcnues.  This  right  of 
the  French  king  Innocent  XI  disputed.  Louis  XIV 
issued  edict  after  edict,  the  pope  bull  after  bull  against 
them  ; finally,  the  French  clergy  demanded  that  a coun- 
cil should  be  assembled.  This  was  done,  and  on  Feb.  3, 
1682,  the  council  declared  that  the  French  clergy  in- 
dorsed the  action  of  the  king,  and  that  the  pope  should 
be  notified  of  their  decision.  While  aAA’aiting  his  an- 
sAver,  the  assembly  continued  its  sittings,  intending  to 
put  an  end  to  all  further  papal  encroachments  by  estab- 
lishing firmly  the  doctrines  of  the  Gallican  Church  con- 
cerning the  temporal  poAvcr  of  the  popes,  their  infalli- 
bility, and  the  independence  of  the  king.  The  result 
of  their  deliberation  Avas  the  famous  four  propositions 
promulgated  March  16,  1682.  See  Gallican  Church. 
Innocent  XI,  in  a solemn  consistory,  condemned  the 
propositions  and  the  bishops  Avho  had  voted  them,  and 
April  11,  1682,  issued  a brief  annulling  the  proceedings 
of  the  French  council.  In  1686  he  also  condemned  the 
doctrines  of  Molinos  (q.  \r.),  who  was  obliged  to  make 
a public  recantation,  September  3, 1687,  besides  suffering 
for  the  remainder  of  his  life  close  confinement  in  the 
prisons  of  the  Inquisition.  At  the  close  of  1676  Inno- 
cent took  a threatening  attitude  toAvards  the  Jesuits, 
forbidding  them,  among  other  things,  to  receive  any 
novices  into  their  order.  They  retorted  by  calling  the 
pope  a Jansenist,  offered  prayers  for  his  conversion,  and 
entered  into  an  alliance  Avith  the  French  king.  Innocent 
XI,  hoAvever,  died  only  a fcAv  years  after,  August  21, 
1689.  It  Avas  during  his  pontificate  that  James  II  of 
England  became  a Romanist,  and  endeavored,  by  a suc- 
cession of  bold  attempts,  not  only  to  give  Romanism  tol- 
eration, but  even  make  it  a Church  establishment  of 
his  country.  (Compare  Fox,  James  //,  p.332;  Hallam, 
Constit.  Hist,  ii,  212;  Mackintosh,  Hist,  of  Revolution, 
ch.  a-  ; Stoughton,  Eccles.  Hist,  of  England  [Lond.  1870, 
2 vols.  8vo],  vol.  ii,  chap,  viii.)  Stoughton  claims  that 
these  efforts  accorded,  hoAA'CA’cr,  only  “ with  the  daring 
policy  of  the  Jesuits,  who  Avere  masters  at  court,  but  not 
Avith  the  more  cautious  measures  of  the  papacy.”  No 
doubt  iliis  is  true  in  a measure.  Innocent  XI  AA'as  CA'i- 
dently  unwilling  to  become  master  of  the  English  eccle- 
siastical establishment  if  to  be  secured  by  the  aid  of  an 
order  Avhich  he  abhorred,  and  Avliich  he  Avas  determined 
upon  extinguishing ; and  this  our  supposition  is  strength- 
ened by  the  demand  Avliich  James  II  made  upon  Rome 
for  a red  hat  for  a Jesuit  named  Petre.  See  James  II. 
Two  letters  of  this  pope  are  published  by  Ughelli,  Italia 
Sacra,  iv,  513;  x,  53.  He  Avrotc  also  Breve  ad  Fran- 
ciscum  episcopum  Apamimsem  (Paris,  4to) : — Decretnm 
de  saerce  communionis  vsu  datum  (Paris,  1679, 4to).  See 
Palatius,  Vit.  Innoeenfius  XI,  in  the  5th  vol.  of  the  Gest. 
Pontif.  Rom.  vita  d'lnnocenzo  XI  (Venet.  1690)  ; Bruys, 
Hist,  des  Papes,  y,  360;  Sismondi,  Hist,  des  Frctnqais, 
xx A',  311 ; J.  A.  Costa  (R.  Simon),  Hist,  de  VOrigine  ties 
Revenus  ecclesiastiques  (Franefort,  1684. 12mo) ; De  Lar- 
roque,  Nouveau  Traite  tie  la  Regale  (1685, 12mo) ; Bavle, 
Xouvelles  de  la  Republiqne  des  Lettres  (1686) ; Heidegger, 
Ilistoria  Papatus  (Amst.  1698,  4to),  pt.  ii ; De  La  Lu- 
zerne, Sur  la  Declaration  de  1'assemble.e  du  clerge  de 
j France  en  1682  (Par.  1821,  8vo);  F.  Buonamiei,  De  Vita 
et  Rebus  gestis  Innocentii  XI  (Rome,  1776,  8ato);  Herzog, 
| Real-Encyklop.  vi,  675;  Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biogr.  Generalei 


596 


INNOCENTS’  DAY 


INNOCENT  XII 


xxv,  919 : Ranke,  Hist,  of  the  Papacy,  i,  273,  279 ; Mos- 
heini,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xvii,  sec.  ii,  pt.  i,  ch.  i ; Aschbach, 
Kirchen-Lex.  iii,  404  sq.;  Bower,  Hist,  of  the  Popes,  vii, 
486  sq.;  English  Cyclopedia,  s.  v.;  Chambers,  Cyclope- 
dia, s.  v.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Innocent  XII  (cardinal  Antonio  Pignatelli)  was 
born  at  Naples  March  13, 1015,  ancl  succeeded  Alexan- 
der VIII  in  July,  1091.  He  had  a serious  dispute  with 
the  emperor  Leopold  I,  who,  attempting  to  revive  in  It- 
aly the  rights  of  the  empire  over  the  former  imperial 
fiefs,  which  had,  during  the  wars  and  vicissitudes  of 
ages,  become  emancipated,  published  an  edict  at  Rome  in 
June,  1097,  enjoining  all  the  possessors  of  such  territo- 
ries to  apply  to  the  emperor  for  his  investiture  within  a 
lixed  time,  or  they  would  be  considered  as  usurpers  and 
rebels.  This  measure,  if  enforced,  would  have  affected 
the  greater  part  of  the  landed  property  of  Italy,  and  also 
the  sovereignty  of  its  governments,  and  of  the  Roman 
see  among  the  rest.  The  pope  protested  against  the 
edict,  and  advised  the  other  Italian  powers  to  resist  such 
obsolete  pretensions,  and,  with  the  support  of  France, 
succeeded  in  persuading  Leopold  to  desist,  from  them. 
He  also  succeeded  in  putting  an  end  to  the  difficulties 
existing  between  France  and  the  see  of  Rome  on  the 
question  of  investiture  [see  Innocent  XI],  and  obtained 
from  the  French  clergy  an  address  which  amounted  al- 
most to  a recantation  of  the  four  articles  of  the  Gallican 
Church.  The  question  of  Quietism  then  reappeared. 
Bossuet  accused  Fenelon  of  favoring  that  tendency  in 
his  Explication  sur  la  vie  intermire.  The  book  was  mod- 
erately condemned  by  the  pope,  in  accordance  with  the 
report  of  the  Congregation  of  the  Index  (q.  v.),  and 
Fenelon  (q.  v.),  as  is  well  known,  submitted  (see  vol.  iii, 
p.  529-530).  Innocent  built  the  harbor  of  Ron  to  d’Anzo 
on  the  ruins  of  the  ancient  Antium ; he  constructed  the 
aqueduct  of  CivitaVecchia;  the  palace  of  the  Monte 
Citorio  at  Rome,  for  the  courts  of  justice;  and  the  fine 
line  of  buildings  at  Ripagrande,  on  the  north  bank  of 
the  Tiber,  below  the  town,  where  vessels  which  ascend 
the  river  load  and  unload.  He  also  built  the  asylum, 
school,  and  penitentiary'  of  San  Michele,  and  other  use- 
fid  works.  Innocent  was  of  regular  habits,  attentive  to 
business,  a lover  of  justice,  and  averse  to  nepotism. 
He  died  Sept.  27,  1700,  and  was  succeeded  by  Clement 
XI.  See  Bruys,  Hist,  des  Papes,  v,  454 ; Sismondi,  Hist, 
des  Frangais , xxvi,  69 ; De  Prades,  A breye  de  Tllistoire 
Ecclesiastique,  ii,  338 ; N.  P.  Giannetasio,  Paneyyricus  in 
funere  Innocentii  XII  (Naples,  1700, 8vo);  Herzog,  Real- 
Encyhlop.  vi,  676 ; English  Cyclop. ; Hoefer,  A Tour.  Biog. 
Generate,  xxv,  923;  Ranke,  Hist,  of  the  Papacy,  i,  281- 
313;  Moslieim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  xvii,  sec.  ii,  pt.  i,  chap,  i; 
Aschbach,  Kirchen-Lex.  iii,  466  sip  (J.  H.  W.) 

Innocent  XIII  (cardinal  Michel  Angelo  Conti), 
born  at  Rome  May  15, 1655,  succeeded  Clement  XI  May 
8, 1721.  He  had  previously  been  papal  nuncio  for  a num- 
ber of  y'ears  at  different  courts,  and  was  made  cardinal 
in  1707,  legate  at  Ferrara  in  1709,  and  bishop  of  Viter- 
bo in  1712.  When  he  ascended  the  papal  throne,  the 
discussion  concerning  the  constitution  Umgemtus  was 
in  progress  with  great  eagerness  on  all  sides.  On 
June  9,  1721,  seven  French  bishops  wrote  to  Innocent 
to  obtain  its  withdrawal.  Cardinal  Althan  complained 
also,  in  the  emperor’s  name,  of  the  trouble  it  was  cre- 
ating in  Germany'.  The  pope,  however,  referred  the 
matter  to  the  inquisitors,  who  condemned  the  letter  of 
the  bishops  as  injurious  to  the  memory  of  Clement  XI, 
and  disrespectful  towards  the  holy  see.  Innocent  XIII 
was  a man  of  prudence  and  experience  of  the  world,  and 
less  wilful  and  headstrong  than  his  predecessor.  The 
most  discreditable  event  of  his  reign  was  his  giving  the 
cardinal’s  hat  to  Dubois  (q.  v.).  He  was  on  the  eve  of 
suppressing  the  order  of  Jesuits  when  he  died,  March  7, 
1724.  Some  think  he  was  poisoned.  See  Bruys,  Hist, 
des  Papes,  v,  489;  Sismondi,  Hist,  des  Frangais,  xxvii, 
442;  De  l’iosseus,  Meinoires  de  la  llegence  dn  due  d' Or- 
leans (1742,  3 vols.  12mo);  A.  Tricaud,  Relation  de  la 
Mori  d' Innocent  XIII  (Nancy',  1724,  12mo) ; llcrzcg, 


Real-Encyklop.  vi,  677 ; English  Cyclop. ; Hoefer,  Nouv. 
Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  925 ; Moslieim,  Ch.  Hist.  cent,  iii, 
p.  485;  Guamacci,  Vit.Pontif.  ii,  137  sq.,  381  sq. ; Asch- 
bach, Kirchen-Lex.  iii,  467. 

Innocent,  a Russian  prelate,  born  in  1800  at  Sievsk. 
At  school  he  distinguished  himself  by  his  superior  abil- 
ity' over  his  fellow-students,  especially'  displaying  great 
oratorical  talent.  "When  twenty-four  years  old,  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  Russian  custom  of  the  better  class  of 
society'  destined  for  the  service  of  the  Church,  he  enter- 
ed the  monastic  order.  Two  years  after,  he  was  called  as 
an  officer  to  the  theological  academy'  of  St.  Petersburg, 
and  in  1830  was  made  rector  of  the  high  school  at  Kief. 
After  filling  various  positions  of  great  eminence  in  his 
Church,  he  was  made  a member  of  the  “ Holy  Synod"  in 
1856.  He  died  at  Odessa  May  6, 1857.  His  works  are, 
The  last  Days  of  Christ's  terrestrial  Life  (1828)  : — The 
Life  of  the  A postle  Paul  (eod.) : — Discourses  and  Ser- 
inons  (1843,3  vols.) : — Of  Sin  and  its  Consequences  (1844) ; 
etc. — Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biogr.  Gen.  xxv,  927.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Innocent,  Gizel,  a Russian  prelate,  was  bom  in 
Prussian  Poland,  of  Lutheran  parents,  at  the  commence- 
ment of  the  17th  century'.  He  joined  the  Greek  Church 
while  yet  young,  and  became  a monk.  Distinguished 
for  great  ability'  and  learning,  he  was  selected  for  a pro- 
fessor’s chair  at  Kief.  He  died  at  that  place  Feb.  24, 
1684.  lie  published  On  the  Peace  between  God  and  Man 
(Kief,  1669),  which,  by'  a ukase  of  the  Synod  of  1766, 
was  put  in  the  Index : — Instructions  on  the  Sacrament 
of  Penitence  (Kief,  1671) ; and  left  in  MS.  a work  on  The 
true  Faith  (written  in  Polish),  which  aims  to  refute  a 
work  on  the  Supremacy  of  St.  Peter,  and  the  Procession 
of  the  Holy'  Spirit.  He  also  published  a synopsis  of  Rus- 
sian history,  which  has  been  extensively  circulated. — 
Hoefer,  Four.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  926.  (J.  II.  "W.) 

Innccentice  Portus  (gate  of  innocence)  is  one  of 
the  names  given  to  the  rite  of  baptism,  aiming  more  di- 
rectly' at  a description  of  its  end  or  efficacy.  See  Bap- 
tism. 

Innocentium  Festum.  See  Innocents’  Day. 

Innocents,  MASSACRE  OF,  by  Herod  (Matt,  ii, 
16).  It  has  been  thought  strange  that  Josephus  should 
not  mention  this  atrocity'  (see  Volborth,  Veram  esse  In- 
fanticidii  Bethlehem,  hist.  Gottingen,  1788);  but  it  was 
one  only',  and  that  a local  one,  of  his  many'  acts  of  t yr- 
anny  and  cruelty'.  See  Herod  the  Great. 

Innocents’  Day  ( Festum  Innocentium,  i/pspa,  rwr 
ciyiojv  tK  \i\iadiov  vgiriwv),  set  apart  by'  the  Greek, 
Roman,  and  English  churches  to  commemorate  the 
slaughter  of  the  children  by  Herod  shortly’  after  our 
Saviour’s  birth,  is  celebrated  in  the  Western  Church  on 
Dec.  28,  and  in  the  Eastern  Church  Dec.  29.  Ancient 
ecclesiastical  writers  speak  of  these  children  as  Christian 
martyrs.  Cyprian  says,  “ The  nativity'  of  Christ  began” 
(a  nnniyriis  infantium)  “with  the  martyrdom  of  those 
infants  that  from  two  y'ears  old  and  under  were  slain  for 
his  name”  (Epist.  56,  ad  Thibar.  p.  123).  Augustine 
says,  “These  infants  died  for  Christ,  not  knowing  it; 
their  parents  bewailed  them  as  dying  martyrs;  they 
could  not  yet  speak,  but,  nevertheless,  they'  confessed 
Christ:  Christ  granted  them  the  honor  to  die  for  his 
name”  (De  Symbol,  iii,  4,  p.  303;  De  Lib.  Arbit.  iii,  23). 
So  Pruiientius  (Cath,  Hymn,  de  Epiph.), 

“ Salvete,  flores  martyrum, 

Qnos  lucis  ipso  in  limine 
Christ!  iusecutor  sustnlit, 

Ceu  turbo  nascentes  rasas! 

Vos  prima  Christi  victimu, 

Grex  immolatornm  tener, 

Aram  sub  ipsam  simplices 
Palma  et  corona  luditis.” 

“ Hail,  ye  flower  of  martyrs,  whom  the  enemy  of  Christ 
cut  off  in  your  very'  entrance  upon  the  light,  as  the  tem- 
pest does  roses  in  the  bud ! First  victims  for  Christ, 
tender  flock  of  sacrifices,  yre  playr  innocently  with  your 
crowns  anil  garlands  before  the  very  altar.”  It  was  a 
popular  superstition  iu  the  old  Church  that  Innocents’ 


INNOVATIO  BENEFICII  597  INQUISITION 


Day  (or  Childermass,  as  it  was  also  called)  is  very  un- 
lucky to  begin  any  work  upon ; and  what  day  soever 
that  falls  on,  whether  on  a Monday,  Tuesday,  or  any 
other,  nothing  must  be  begun  on  that  day  throughout 
the  year.  Though  Childermass  Day  was  reckoned  un- 
fortunate, nevertheless  revels  were  held  on  it.  The  So- 
ciety of  Lincoln's  Inn  used  to  choose  an  oilicer  at  that 
season  called  the  King  of  the  Cockneys , who  presided 
on  the  day  of  his  appointment.  But  in  the  modern 
Church  this  feast  is  observed  as  a special  holiday  by 
the  young,  and  many  curious  customs  connected  with  it 
prevail  in  Catholic  countries.  Thus,  in  private  families, 
the  children  are  on  this  day  privileged  to  wear  the 
clothes  of  the  elders,  and  in  some  sort  to  exercise  au- 
thority over  the  household  in  their  stead.  So,  also,  in 
communities  of  nuns,  the  youngest  sister  becomes  for 
this  day  superioress  of  the  house,  and  exercises  a sort 
of  sportive  authority  even  over  the  real  superior.  In 
Church,  the  priest  celebrating  mass  on  this  day  wears  a 
blue  gown.  See  Bingham,  Grig.  Cedes,  bk.  xx,  cap.  vii, 
§12;  Augusti,  Denkwiirdigkeiten  a.  tier  christl.  Archaol. 
(Lips.  1817),  i,  304  sq. 

Imiovatio  Beueficii  is  the  technical  term  for  any 
change  to  be  effected  in  a benefice ; it  may  have  regard 
either  to  the  position  itself,  or  only  to  the  revenues  ac- 
cruing therefrom. 

Ill  partibus  infidelium  (i.  q.  in  heathen  coun- 
tries),  Ei’isconcs,  episcopns  titularis , episcopus  sujfra- 
ganeus.  All  these  expressions,  sometimes  used  promis- 
cuously, have,  when  closely  examined,  different  signifi- 
cations. As  bishops,  on  account  of  the  great  variety 
and  number  of  duties  devolving  on  them,  are  unable  to 
perform  them  all  in  person,  they  are  allowed  the  use  of 
assistants,  such  as  archdeacons,  coadjutors,  etc.  For 
such  functions,  however,  as  can  only  be  performed  by  a 
bishop,  since  there  can  be  but  one  in  a diocese  (c.  viii, 
Cone.  Niccen.  a.  325),  the  bishop  unable  to  perform  them 
was  formerly  obliged  to  call  in  the  aid  of  a neighboring 
bishop.  In  after  times,  the  bishops  driven  out  of  their 
dioceses  were  especially  intrusted  with  these  functions, 
being  considered  as  still  belonging  de  jure  to  their  dio- 
cese. The  Homan  Church  was  thus  led  never  to  give 
up,  in  principle,  any  place  where  it  had  once  obtained  a 
footing,  even  when  it  did  lose  it  in  fact ; and  thus,  when 
its  bishops  were  driven  from  a place,  their  connection 
with  their  cathedra  did  not  therefore  cease.  In  the  9th 
century  a number  of  bishops  were  driven  out  of  Spain 
by  the  Arabs,  and  sought  refuge  at  Oviedo  (Africa), 
waiting  to  resume  their  sees;  and  when  one  of  them 
died,  another  was  at  once  elected  in  his  stead.  While 
thus  waiting  they  acted  as  assistants  to  the  bishops  of 
Oviedo,  according  to  the  express  definition  : “ lit  epis- 
copi,  cjui  ditione  earerent,  Ovetensi  prtesuli  vicariam 
operam  exhiberent,  cura  in  multos  partita,  ejusque  re- 
ditibus  alerentur”  (see  Thomassin,  Vet  us  ac  nova  eccle- 
si(e  disdpliiui  de  benefeiis,  pt.  i,  lib.  i,  cap.  xxvii,  no.  viii ; 
Vinterim,  Die  vorziiglichsten  DcnkieUrdigkeiten  d.  christ- 
kath.  Kirche,  vol.  i,  pt.  ii,  p.  379,  380).  We  next  find 
instances  of  such  vice-episcopi,  vices  gerentes  in  pontifi- 
calibus,  ricuni  in  pontijicalibus , in  Germany,  and  they 
grew  more  numerous  after  the  12th  century  in  conse- 
quence of  the  schism  of  the  Eastern  Church.  It  then 
became  the  practice  to  appoint  for  such  dioceses  as 
had  formerly  been  Christian,  but  had  now  fallen  into 
the  hands  of  infidels  (in  partibus  infidelium ),  bishops 
called  episcopi  titulares , who  were  used  as  assistants  to 
other  bishops  in  their  strictly  episcopal  functions.  The 
practice  soon  led  to  abuses,  monks  especially  using  ev- 
ery exertion  to  obtain  such  appointments.  Clement  V 
therefore  decreed  at  Vienna  in  1311  that  no  such  bish- 
ops should  thenceforth  be  appointed  without  the  special 
authorization  of  the  pope,  and  that  no  monks  eould  be 
raised  to  that  office  without  the  consent  of  their  supe- 
riors (cap.  v,  Clement.  De  electione).  Other  restrictions 
were  also  enacted  at  Ravenna  in  1311, 1314,  etc.,  but  the 
practice  was  not  abolished.  Thus,  at  the  Synod  of 
Cologne  in  1322,  we  find  the  bishop  of  Liege  represent- 


ed by  a titular  bishop  (episcopus  ecclesite  Hennensis ) 
(Ilartzheim,  Concilia  Germanite,  iv,  284).  We  find  also 
mention  made  in  the  synod  of  Salzburg,  in  1420,  of  epis- 
copi titulares  (Ilartzheim,  v,  179),  and  in  that  of  Pas- 
sau,  in  1470  (can.  7,  8),  of  stifi'raganei,  whose  functions 
were  to  consecrate  priests  and  churches.  They  received 
the  name  of  sufiiuganei  because  they  were  to  support 
the  bishops  by  deed  and  word  (sn fir  agio).  Leo  X,  in 
the  fifth  Lateran  Council,  1514  (Sess.  ix),  granted  also  to 
the  cardinals  the  privilege  of  having  vicarii  sen  sufira- 
ganei.  The  Council  of  Trent  (Sess.  vi,  cap.  v,  De  re- 
form. ; Sess.  xiv,  cap.  ii,  viii,  De  reform.)  sought  to  rem- 
edy the  still  existing  abuses,  for  sometimes  titular  bish- 
ops endeavored  to  establish  separate  bishoprics  for  them- 
selves in  the  dioceses  of  the  bishops  whom  they  were  to 
assist.  On  this  and  subsequent  decisions  (see  Benedict 
XIV,  De  sgnodo  diocesana , lib.  ii,  cap.  vii ; lib.  xiii,  cap. 
xiv ; Ferraris,  Bid.  Canonica,  s.  v.  Episcopus,  art.  vii. 
no.  21  sq.)  is  based  the  existing  practice  of  creating 
bishops  of  the  title  of  dioceses  which  have  passed  from 
the  rule  of  the  Romish  Church.  Hence,  in  the  bull  De 
salute  animarum  of  1821  to  Prussia,  it  is  enacted  that 
the  confirmation  of  existing  suffraganeatus,  as  also  the 
restoration  of  those  of  Treves  and  Cologne,  shall  be  per- 
formed in  the  usual  manner  (“  servatis  consnetis  formis 
de  episcopatu  titulari  in  partibus  infidelium”).  This 
consecration  differs  from  that  of  the  other  bishops  only 
in  making  the  recipient  simply  an  adjunct  of  the  regu- 
larly located  bishops,  without  separate  jurisdiction. 
When  they  confer  orders  without  the  consent  of  their 
bishops,  or  otherwise  overstep  their  duties,  they  are 
punished  by  being  suspended  for  one  year.  The  epis- 
copi in  partibus , as  simple  titular  bishops,  are  revocable 
papal  delegates.  So  also  when  they  are  missionary 
bishops.  Suffragan  bishops  are  in  a more  secure  posi- 
tion, “cum  assuetae  congruse  adsignatione  provideatur,” 
as  says  the  bull  De  salute.  See  A.  H.  Andreucci,  De 
episeopo  titulari  seu  in  partibus  infiddium  (Rom.  1732); 
Thomassin,  Vet  us  ac  nova  ecclesice  diseiplina  de  beneficiis, 
pt.  i,  lib.  i,  cap.  xxvii,  xxviii ; F.  A.  Durr,  De  sufiraga- 
neis  seu  ricuriis  in  pontificalibus  episcop.  German.  (Mo- 
gmit.  1782);  J.  II.  Ileister,  Sufiraganei  Colonienses  cx- 
traordinarii  sive  de  sacrce  Colon,  ecclesite  pro  episenpis , 
etc.  (Mogunt.  1843). — Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  iv,  103. 

Inquisition  (Inquisitio  ii.eretic.e,  Sanctum  Of- 
fidnm)  is  the  name  given  to  a tribunal  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church,  whose  function  is  to  seek  out  and  pun- 
ish heretics  and  unbelievers.  It  is  a degenerated  and 
perverse  form  of  the  old  Church  discipline,  originally  in 
the  hands  of  the  rural  bishops,  on  whom  devolved  the 
duty  of  checking  false  doctrines,  and  who,  for  the  purpose 
of  spying  out  rising  heresies,  made  frequent  visits  to  the 
churches  of  their  diocese.  Upon  such  heretics,  when 
discovered,  they  inflicted  several  punishments,  the  se- 
verest of  which,  however,  was  only  excommunication. 
Another  punishment  frequently  resorted  to  was  banish- 
ment; but  capital  punishment  on  account  of  one’s  faith 
was  not  inflicted  by  Christians  until  the  4th  century. 
The  first  instance  of  legally  enforcing  the  death-penalty 
against  Christians  occurred  under  the  emperor  Theodo- 
sius the  Great  (382),  who  opposed  and  aimed  at  uproot- 
ing all  heresy,  especially  that  of  Manichteism  (Scliaff, 
Ch.  Hist,  ii,  141  sq.).  Under  this  emperor,  and  under 
Justinian,  judges  (inqnisitores)  were  first  appointed  to 
examine  heretics  with  a view  to  enforcing  upon  them 
punishments,  if  found  guilty ; and,  in  order  to  enable  the 
ecclesiastical  officers  to  execute  their  functions,  the  civil 
authorities  surrendered  for  this  purpose  to  the  bishops 
the  right  of  exercising  the  requisite  jurisdiction  in  their 
several  dioceses.  Most  frequently  the  ban  only  was  pro- 
nounced by  the  ecclesiastics,  leaving  it  to  the  civil  offi- 
cers to  add  other  and  more  severe  punishments.  In  the 
8th  century  the  rights  of  the  ecclesiastics  in  extermina- 
ting heresy  were  put  on  a firmer  basis  by  synodal  courts, 
but  it  was  not  until  the  12th  century  that  it  became  a 
general  institution  in  the  Christian  Church. 

Establishment  of  the  Inquisition  in  France. — At  the 


INQUISITION  598  INQUISITION 


Synod  of  Verona,  in  1184,  certain  directions  were  given  j 
to  the  bishops  “concerning  heretics,”  who  at  this  time 
formed  a very  formidable  enemy  of  the  Romish  Church,  j 
more  especially  in  the  south  of  France.  The  sects  had  | 
become  so  numerous  that  some  of  them,  such  as  the 
Cathari  (q.  v.),  the  Albigenses  (q.  v.),  and  the  Walden-  | 
sians  (q.  v.),  threatened  the  very  existence  of  the  papal 
hierarchy,  and  this  led  Innocent  III  (q.v.)  in  1198  to 
dispatch* the  Cistercians  Raineri  and  Guido,  and  in  1206 
Peter  of  Castelnau  and  Raoul,  as  papal  legates  to  France, 
to  assist  the  bishops  and  the  civil  authorities  in  punish- 
ing all  heretics  with  the  utmost  rigor.  But,  to  efface 
forever  the  last  vestige  of  heresy,  Innocent  III  deter- 
mined to  make  a permanent  institution  of  the  Inquisi- 
tion, “the  most  formidable  of  all  the  formidable  engines 
devised  by  popery  to  subdue  the  souls  and  bodies,  the 
reason  and  the  consciences  of  men,  to  its  sovereign  will.” 
Accordingly,  the  fourth  Lateran  Council  (1215)  made 
the  persecution  of  heretics  the  chief  business  of  synodal 
courts,  in  the  form  that  every  archbishop  or  bishop 
should  visit,  either  personally,  or  through  the  archdea- 
con, or  some  other  suitable  person,  the  parish  in  which, 
according  to  rumor  (in  qua  Jama  fuerit),  there  were  her- 
etics, and  put  under  oath  two  or  three  of  the  inhabitants 
of  irreproachable  character,  or,  if  necessary,  all  the  in- 
habitants, to  point  out  those  who  were  known  as  here- 
tics, or  those  who  held  secret  meetings,  or  departed  from 
the  faithful  in  their  walk  and  conduct.  The  refusal  to 
take  oath  justified  the  suspicion  of  heresy,  hceretieee 
pravitatis;  the  careless  bishop  was  deposed  (comp.Bie- 
ner,  Beit  rage  z.  d.  Gesch.  des  Inquisitionsprozesses  [Lpz. 
1827],  p.  60  sq.).  In  name,  the  bishops  still  conducted 
the  matter,  but  the  legates  had  supervision  over  them, 
and,  in  fact,  conducted  the  persecution  of  heretics.  In 
1229  the  Council  of  Toulouse  confirmed  this  decision  of 
the  fourth  Lateran  Council,  and  published  forty-five  de- 
crees to  complete  the  institution  of  episcopal  inquisition 
(see  Mansi,  xxiii,  192;  Planck,  Gesch.  d.  Kir  chi.  Gesell- 
schuftsverfassung , iv,  2d  half,  463  sq.).  It  was  decided 
that  each  bishop  should  appoint  in  each  district  one 
priest  and  two  or  three  laymen  in  good  standing,  who 
should  devote  themselves  exclusively  to  ferreting  out 
heretics,  and  then  deliver  them  up  to  the  archbishops, 
bishops,  or  other  authorities  for  punishment.  Every 
one  guilty  of  concealing  a heretic  forfeited  thereby  his 
land  possessions  or  offices;  the  house  in  which  a heretic 
was  found  was  to  be  torn  down.  In  case  of  sickness, 
however  severe,  no  heretic  or  unbeliever  was  to  be  al- 
lowed the  aid  of  a physician  ; penitents  were  to  leave 
their  home,  to  wear  a peculiar  dress,  and  could  hold  no 
office  except  by  a special  dispensation  from  the  pope. 
But,  notwithstanding  these  rigid  and  definite  regula- 
tions, and  notwithstanding  the  great  zeal  of  the  legates 
in  urging  the  execution  of  the  laws  by  the  bishops,  the 
see  of  Rome  did  not  even  approach  the  desired  end. 
To  accomplish  this  more  certainly,  the  affairs  of  the  In- 
quisition were  taken  from  the  bishops,  and  made  a papal 
tribunal,  and  the  bishops  themselves  were  subjected  to 
it.  Accordingly,  Gregory  IX  appointed,  in  1232,  in  Ger- 
many, Aragonia,  and  Austria,  in  1233  in  Lombardy  and 
South  France  (see  Beziers,  anno  1233,  in  Mansi,  xxiii, 
269  sq. ; Rayuald,  Annul,  a.  1233,  n.  59  sq.),  the  Domin- 
icans (q.  v.)  permanent  papal  inquisitors  (later  also  the 
Franciscans  became  such).  “The  solitude  and  retire- 
ment of  which  these  monks  made  profession,  but  of 
which,  as  it  appeared  in  the  sequel,  they  soon  began  to 
tire,  afforded  them  leisure  to  attend  incessantly  to  this 
new  calling.  The  meanness  of  their  dress,  the  poverty 
of  their  monasteries,  and,  above  all,  the  public  mendicity 
and  humility  to  which  they  bound  themselves,  could 
not  fail  to  make  the  office  of  inquisitors  one  that  flatter- 
ed any  relic  of  natural  ambition  which  might  yet  lurk 
within  tlieir  minds.  The  general  renunciation  which 
they  made,  even  of  the  names  of  the  families  from  which 
they  sprang,  must  have  gone  a great  way  towards  sti- 
fling those  sentiments  which  the  ties  of  kindred  and 
civil  connections  generally  inspire.  Besides,  the  auster- 


ity of  their  rules,  and  the  severity  which  they  w ere  con 
tinually  practising  upon  themselves,  were  not  likely  to 
allow  them  to  have  much  feeling  for  others.  Lastly, 
they  were  zealous,  as  possessors  of  newly  established  re- 
ligions commonly  are ; and  they  were  learned,  after  the 
fashion  of  the  times;  that  is  to  say,  well  versed  in  scho- 
lastic quibbles  and  in  the  new  canon  lawr.  Moreover, 
they  had  a particular  interest  in  the  suppression  of  her- 
etics, who  were  incessantly  declaiming  against  them, 
and  who  spared  no  pains  to  tliseredit  them  in  the  minds 
of  the  people.  On  these  monks,  therefore,  the  pope  con- 
ferred the  office  of  inquisitors  of  the  faith,  and  they  ac- 
quitted themselves  in  such  a manner  as  not  to  disap- 
point his  expectations”  (Shoberl,  Persecutions  of  Popery , 
i,  103,  104).  ISo  much  eagerness  did  they  display  in 
hunting  up  and  prosecuting  heretics,  that  a popular  pun 
changed  the  name  of  Dominicans  into  Domini  canes  (the 
dogs  of  the  Lord).  To  preserve  the  Church,  however, 
from  the  charge  of  blood-guiltiness,  the  civil  authorities 
were  made  the  executioners  of  its  judgments,  and  orders 
to  that  effect  wrere  caused  to  be  issued  jn  1228  bj'  Louis 
IX  of  France,  in  1233  by  Raymond  of  Toulouse,  and  in 
1234  by  Frederick  II,  the  emperor  of  German}'.  Accord- 
ing to  the  regulations,  the  suspicion  of  heresy  was  suffi- 
cient cause  for  imprisonment;  accomplices  and  culprits 
w'ere  deemed  competent  witnesses;  the  accused  was  nev- 
er informed  of  his  accusers,  nor  confronted  with  them; 
confession  was  extorted  by  torture,  which,  applied  at  first 
by  the  civil  authorities,  was  afterwards,  for  the  sake  of 
( secrecy,  intrusted  to  the  inquisitors  themselves.  To  en- 
; large  also  the  sphere,  and  last,  but  hardly  least,  to  in- 
j crease  the  pecuniary  income  of  the  Inquisition,  a very 
wide  meaning  was  given  to  the  word  heresy.  It  was 
not  confined  to  views  which  departeel  from  the  dogmas 
of  the  Church,  or  to  sectarian  tendencies,  but  was  made 
to  include  usury,  fortune-telling  by  the  hands,  signs, 

I lots,  etc.,  insulting  the  cross,  despising  the  clergy,  j rc- 
t ended  connection  with  the  leprous,  with  Jews,  daemons, 
I and  the  devil,  daemonolatrv,  and  witchcraft.  The  pun- 
I ishments  were  of  three  kinds:  Upon  those  who  recant- 
ed, besides  penance  in  the  severest  form  which  the  court 
might  enact,  was  frequently  inflicted  even  the  depri- 
vation of  all  civil  and  ecclesiastical  rights  and  privileges, 
and  the  sequestration  of  goods ; upon  those  not  abso- 
lutely convicted,  imprisonment  for  life  ; upon  the  obsti- 
nate or  the  relapsed,  the  penalty  of  death — death  at  the 
stake,  death  by  the  secular  arm.  “ The  Inquisition,  with 
specious  hypocrisy,  while  it  prepared  and  dressed  up  the 
victim  for  the  burning,  looked  on  with  calm  and  approv- 
ing satisfaction,  as  it  had  left  the  sin  of  lighting  the  fire 
to  pollute  other  hands.”  As  if  these  horrible  treatments 
of  fellow-beings  were  not  bad  enough,  pope  Innocent  IV, 
in  a bull  ( De  extirpanda)  in  the  year  1252,  ordained 
that  accused  persons  should  be  tortured,  not  merely  to 
induce  them  to  confess  their  own  heresy,  but  also  to 
compel  them  to  accuse  others.  .Such  was  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Inquisition  in  the  13th  century — “a  Chris- 
tian code,  of  which  the  basis  was  a system  of  delation 
that  the  worst  of  the  pagan  emperors  might  have  shud- 
dered at  as  iniquitous;  in  which  the  sole  act  deserving 
of  mercy  might  seem  to  he  the  .Judas-like  betrayal  of 
the  dearest  and  most  familiar  friend,  of  the  kinsman, 
the  parent,  the  child.  ...  No  falsehood  was  too  false, 
no  craft  too  crafty,  no  trick  too  base  for  this  calm,  svs- 
tematic  moral  torture,  which  was  to  wring  further  con- 
fession against  the  heretic,  denunciation  against  others. 
If  the  rack,  the  pulleys,  the  thumbscrew,  and  the  boots 
were  not  yet  invented  or  applied,  it  was  not  in  mercy. 
...  Nothing  that  the  sternest  or  most  passionate  his- 
torian has  revealed,  nothing  that  the  most  impressive 
romance-writer  could  have  imagined,  can  surpass  the 
cold,  systematic  treachery  and  cruelty  of  these  so-called 
judicial  formularies”  (Milman,  Latin ' Christianity , vi,  32, 
33).  The  excessive  cruelties,  however,  of  the  inquisi- 
tors, their  knavery  even  in  accusing  the  innocent  and 
robbing  them  of  their  possessions,  exasperated  the  peo- 
ple, and  they  rose  up  against  the  inquisitors.  At  Ton- 


INQUISITION  599  INQUISITION 


louse  ami  Narbonne  the  inquisitors  were  banished  in  | 
1235,  and  four  of  them  killed  in  the  former  city  in  1242, 
and  the  pope  was  tinally  obliged  to  suppress  the  tribu- 
nal at  the  former  place  altogether.  When  at  last  re- 
stored, the  inquisitorial  tribunal  resumed  its  former  cru- 
elty, until  Philip  the  Fair  (A.D.  1291)  ordered  the  civil 
officers  to  exercise  great  caution  in  acting  on  the  accu- 
sations made  by  the  inquisitors.  But  what  insurrec- 
tions and  royal  edicts  in  France  could  not  accomplish, 
ecclesiastico-political  events,  such  as  the  papal  schism 
in  the  14th,  and  the  reformatory  councils  in  the  loth 
century,  were  caused  to  bring  about.  The  former  crip- 
pled the  power  of  the  hierarchy  with  the  latter,  and  lim- 
ited thereby  the  power  of  the  Inquisition,  so  that  it  now 
proceeded  against  secret  or  suspected  heretics  only  on 
the  accusation  of  sorcery  and  connection  with  the  devil 
(compare  the  Breve  of  Nicholas  V,  in  Ravnald,  a.  1451). 
In  the  10th  century,  the  time  of  the  Reformation,  the 
clergy,  supported  by  the  Guises,  were  able  to  rekindle 
violent  persecutions  against  the  Huguenots  (q.  v.),  and 
endeavored  to  restore  the  Inquisition  to  its  former  pow- 
er, but  it  had  now  lost  its  territory.  Paul  IV,  it  is  true, 
published  a bull  (April  25, 1557)  to  re-establish  it  (Ray- 
nald,  a.  1557,  no.  29),  and  Henry  II  compelled  Parlia- 
ment to  pass  a corresponding  edict ; but  Paul,  who  on 
his  death-bed  commended  the  Inquisition  as  the  main 
support  of  the  Romish  Church  (Schrbckh,  Kirckenyesch. 
seit  d.  Reformation , iii,  248  sq.),  died  in  1559,  and  the 
new  attempt  to  re-establish  it.  failed;  so  that  in  France, 
where  it  took  its  rise  first,  it  was  also  first  discontinued, 
in  spite  of  priestcraft  and  Jesuitism. 

The  Inquisition  in  Germany. — But  from  France  the 
Inquisition  soon  cast  its  net  over  neighboring  and  dis- 
tant countries,  even  beyond  the  ocean,  by  the  aid  of 
the  Jesuits.  Almost  immediately  after  its  firm  es- 
tablishment in  France,  the  Inquisition  spread  to  Ger- 
many. The  first  inquisitor  was  Conrad  of  Marburg, 
who  organized  the  “holy  office”  with  terrible  severity 
during  the  years  1231-1233.  The  sentences  of  death 
which  this  new  tribunal  pronounced  were  not  few  in 
number,  and  of  course  they  always  obtained  the  ap- 
proval of  the  emperor,  Ferdinand  II.  But  there  was  a 
higher  power  than  that  of  the  reigning  prince,  which 
had  been  lost  sight  of;  and  though  the  people’s  voice  , 
was  in  those  dark  days  not  quite  so  powerful  as  in  our  | 
own,  it  certainly  sufficed  to  thwart  the  iniquitous  de-  ! 
signs  of  these  “holy  officers.”  So  energetically  did  the  ' 
people  and  the  nobles  oppose  the  Inquisition,  that  it 
could  carry  out  its  sentences  in  a very  few  cases  only. 
In  1233  the  lower  class  of  the  people,  always  ready  to 
execute  judgment,  took  the  lawr  into  their  own  hands, 
and  Conrad  of  Marburg  was  slain  in  the  streets  of  Stras- 
burg.  It  was  not  really  until  the  14th  century  that  the 
Inquisition  can  be  said  to  have  been  properly  establish- 
ed in  Germany.  It  was  at  this  time  that  the  Beghards 
(q.  v.)  made  their  appearance.  To  suppress  them,  pope 
Urban  V appointed  in  1307  two  Dominicans  as  inquisi- 
tors, who  engaged  in  a regular  crusade  against  the  new 
sect,  and  sustained  by  three  different  edicts  of  the  em- 
peror Charles  IV,  rendered  in  1309,  failed  not  to  re- 
peat in  Germany  the  cruel  practices  of  the  French 
brethren  of  their  order.  Encouraged  by  their  successes 
against  the  Beghards,  and  by  the,  to  them,  so  favorable 
attitude  of  the  emperor,  pope  Gregory  XI  increased  in 
1372  the  number  of  the  inquisitors  to  five,  and  in  1399  ' 
Boniface  IX  appointed  no  less  than  six  of  these  “holy 
men”  for  such  “holy”  work  for  the  north  of  Germany 
alone.  But  in  proportion  as  the  reformatory  tendencies 
gained  ground  in  Germany,  the  Inquisition  lost  its  foot- 
hold. A desperate  effort  was  made  by  Jacob  Sprenger 
and  Heinrich  Kriimer,  two  inquisitors  appointed  by  In- 
nocent VIII,  under  the  plea  of  a prosecution  of  sorcerers 
and  witches  only.  They  even  influenced  the  pope  to 
publish  the  bull  ( Summis  desiderantes  ajfectibus ) in  1484 
(Dec.  5)  which  reaffirmed  the  doctrines  previously  set 
forth  concerning  heresy  in  regard  to  sorcery  and  witch- 
craft, and  the  punishment  by  the  Inquisition  of  those 


guiltv  of  such  crimes.  To  justify  their  harsh  dealings 
as  executors  of  the  Romish  dicta,  and  to  hide  their  in- 
iquitous work  behind  the  screen  of  devotion  to  the  cause 
of  Christ,  they  published  a code  called  “Hexenham- 
mer”  ( Malleus  malejicorum ),  in  accordance  with  which 
the  prosecution  was  to  be  carried  on.  In  this  way  they 
proceeded  to  condemn  and  execute  a large  number  of 
persons.  The  Reformation  at  last  completely  overthrew 
the  power  of  the  Inquisition  in  Germany,  and  the  at- 
tempts to  re-establish  it,  made  mostly  by  the  Jesuits, 
with  an  endeavor  to  check  the  progress  of  evangelical 
truth,  as  in  Austria,  Bohemia,  and  Bavaria  (where  a 
tribunal  of  the  Inquisition  was  formally  established  in 
1599),  proved  ineffectual,  and  of  short  duration. 

In  Italy  the  Inquisition  was  introduced  under  the  di- 
rection of  the  Dominicans  in  1224,  but  it  was  not  until 
1235  that  it  was  firmly  established  as  a tribunal  by 
pope  Gregory  IX.  Just  here  it  may  not  be  amiss  to 
state  that  Lacordaire,  in  his  Life  of  Dominic  ( Works,  i, 
95  sq.),  seeks  to  relieve  the  memory  of  Dominic,  and 
also  the  Dominican  order,  of  the  special  odium  which 
attaches  to  them  from  their  agency  in  establishing  and 
conducting  the  Inquisition  (compare  Hare,  Contest  with 
Rome,  p.  284-292).  The  Dominicans  certainly  cannot 
be  freed  from  this  charge,  which  is  too  well  founded, 
and  the  efforts  of  a Lacordaire  even  must  prove  to  be  in 
vain.  But  to  return  to  the  tribunal  of  Gregory  IX.  It 
was  at  this  time  intended  especially  against  the  Wal- 
denscs,  who  had  fled  from  the  south  of  France  to  Pied- 
mont, and  now  threatened  to  infect  all  Italy  with  their 
doctrines.  Later  its  power  was  directed  against  other 
heretics;  but  the  papal  schism  and  the  political  com- 
motions which  agitated  the  country  greatly  weakened 
its  power.  The  free  states  of  which  Italy  was  then 
composed  neither  could  nor  would  long  bear  the  “arbi- 
trary and  vexatious  proceedings”  of  the  Inquisition ; 
and  “ about  the  middle  of  the  14th  century  measures 
were  generally  adopted  to  restrain  its  exorbitant  power, 
in  spite  of  the  opposition  made  by  Clement  VI.  and  the 
censures  which  he  fulminated.  The  right  of  the  bish- 
ops to  take  part  with  the  inquisitors  in  the  examination 
j of  heretics  was  recognised;  they  were  restricted  to  the 
j simple  cognizance  of  the  charge  of  heresy,  and  deprived 
of  the  power  of  imprisonment,  confiscation,  fine,  and 
corporal  punishment,  which  was  declared  to  belong 
solely  to  the  secular  arm”  (M'Crie,  Ref.  in  Italy,  p.  189; 
comp.  Galluzzi,  1st  or.  del  Grandncato  di  Toscano,  i,  142, 
1,43).  But  such  a mode  of  procedure  the  Church  of 
Rome  found  to  be  ineffectual  for  suppressing  free  in- 
quiry, and  maintaining  hierarchical  authority,  after  the 
new  opinions  began  to  spread  in  Italy;  and  as  in  Ger- 
many and  the  south  of  France,  so  also  here,  the  bishops 
in  many  instances  having  become  lukewarm,  some  even 
dared  to  manifest  a humane  feeling  towards  those  who 
chose  to  differ  from  them  in  religions  views;  the  ac- 
cused often  suffered  only  very  slight  punishment,  or 
were  permitted  to  escape  before  the  necessary  orders  for 
their  arrest  wrere  issued.  On  these  accounts  pope  Paul 
III  finally  resolved,  at  the  instigation  of  cardinal  John 
Peter  Caraffa,  to  strengthen  the  power  of  the  inquisitors 
by  the  establishment  of  the  “Congregation  of  the  Holy 
Office”  (1534),  with  cardinal  Caraffa  (afterwards  Paul 
IV)  at  their  head,  which  the  more  zealous  of  the  Ro- 
manists considered  the  only  means  of  preserving  Italy 
from  being  overrun  with  heresy.  A constitution  for  a 
supreme  and  universal  Inquisition  at  Rome  was  prom- 
ulgated July  21, 1542,  and  operations  commenced  under 
it  in  1543.  Six  cardinals  now  received  the  title  and 
rights  of  inquisitors  general,  and  authority  was  given 
them  on  both  sides  of  the  Alps  “to  try  all  causes  of  her- 
esy, with  the  power  of  apprehending  and  incarcerating 
suspected  persons  and  their  abettors,  of  whatsoever  es- 
tate, rank,  or  order,  of  nominating  officers  under  them, 
and  appointing  inferior  tribunals  in  all  places,  w ith  the 
same  or  with  limited  powers”  (M'Crie,  Ref.  in  Italy,  p. 
189  sq. ; comp.  Chandler’s  Limborch,  Hist,  of  the  Inqui-. 
sition,  i,  151 ; Llorente,  Ilistoire  de  Vlnquis.  ii,  78).  But 


INQUISITION 


600 


INQUISITION" 


while  the  inquisitors  were  to  extirpate  heresy  and  pun- 
ish heretics,  the  vicar  of  Christ  reserved  for  himself  the 
graces  of  reconciliation  and  absolution.  In  the  arro- 
gance which  home  has  ever  manifested,  the  power 
which  belonged  to  the  judge  was  withdrawn,  and  the 
power  of  life  and  death  over  the  subjects  of  the  different 
governments  of  the  world  asserted  to  belong  to  the  pa- 
pal see.  Of  course  the  new  cardinal  inquisitors  made 
full  use  of  their  powers,  and  soon  became  the  terror  not 
only  of  home  and  Italy,  but  of  all  the  countries  over 
which  they  could  possibly  exert  any  influence.  The 
Inquisition  was  especially  severe  against  the  press. 
“Books  were  destroyed,  and  many  more  disfigured; 
printers  were  forbidden  to  carry  on  their  business  with- 
out licenses  from  the  Holy  Office.”  See  Index.  The 
terror-stricken  pqople,  however,  soon  gained  their  foot- 
hold again,  and  oppositions  against  the  encroachments 
of  home  were  everywhere  manifest.  The  greatest  re- 
sistance to  it  was  offered  in  Venice.  The  republic  re- 
fused to  submit  to  an  inquisitorial  tribunal  responsible 
solely  to  the  pope,  and,  after  long  negotiations,  permit- 
ted only  the  establishment  of  an  inquisitorial  tribunal  on 
condition  that,  with  the  papal  officers,  a certain  number 
of  magistrates  and  lawyers  should  always  be  associated, 
and  that  the  definitive  sentence  should  not,  at  least  in 
the  case  of  laics,  be  pronounced  before  it  was  submitted 
to  the  senate  (Busdragi  Epistola:  Scrinium  Anliquar. 
i,  321,  326  sq.;  Thuani,  Hist,  ad  an.  1 548).  In  Naples 
like  difficulties  between  the  government  and  the  pope 
arose  on  the  endeavor  of  the  latter  to  establish  the  in- 
quisitorial tribunal.  Twice  the  Neapolitans  had  suc- 
cessfully resisted  its  establishment  in  their  country  at 
the  beginning  of  the  16th  century.  In  1546,  the  em- 
peror Charles  V,  with  the  view  of  extirpating  the  Lu- 
theran heresy,  renewed  the  attempt,  and  gave  orders  to 
set  tip  that  tribunal  in  Naples,  after  the  same  form  in 
which  it  had  long  been  established  in  Spain.  The 
people  rose  in  arms,  and  although  Borne  would  have 
been  only  too  glad  to  see  this  formidable  tribunal  estab- 
lished in  Naples,  yet,  rather  than  to  forego  the  intro- 
duction of  an  inquisitorial  tribunal  altogether,  she  took 
the  part  of  the  people  against  the  government,  and  en-  j 
couraged  them  in  their  opposition  by  telling  them  that 
they  had  reason  for  their  fears,  because  the  Spanish 
Inquisition  (see  below)  was  extremely  severe.  Here 
it  may  be  well  to  quote  M‘Crie  (Ref.  in  Italy,  p.  253  sq.) 
on  tbe  truth  of  this  assertion,  which  many  Protestant 
as  well  as  Uoman  Catholic  writers  have  not  failed  to  re-  1 
peat  and  urge  in  favor  of  the  tendency  to  mercy  at  I 
Rome.  Says  JPCrie:  “Both  the  statement  of  the  fact  ■ 
and  the  reasons  by  which  it  is  usually  accounted  for  re- 
quire to  be  qualified.  One  of  these  reasons  is  the  policy 
with  which  the  Italians,  including  the  popes,  have  al- 
ways consulted  their  pecuniary  interests,  to  which  they 
postponed  tv'ry  other  consideration.  (Compare  the  op- 
position of  the  papacy  to  the  Inquisition  as  a state 
institution  in  Portugal,  below.)  The  second  reason  is 
that,  the  popes,  being  temporal  princes  in  the  States 
of  the  Church,  had  no  occasion  to  employ  the  Inquisi- 
tion to  undermine  the  rights  of  the  secular  authorities 
hi  them,  as  in  other  countries.  This  is  unquestionably 
true;  and  it  accounts  for  the  fact  that  the  court  of  the 
Inquisition,  long  after  its  operations  had  been  suspended 
in  Italy,  continued  to  be  warmly  supported  by  papal  in- 
fluence in  Spain.  But  at  the  time  of  which  I write, 
and  during  the  remainder  of  the  16th  century,  it  was  in 
full  and  constant  operation,  and  the  popes  found  that 
it  enabled  them  to  accomplish  what  would  have  baffled 
their  power  as  secular  sovereigns.  The  chief  difference 
between  the  Italian  and  Spanish  Inquisitions  at  that 
period  consisted  in  their  respective  lines  of  policy  as  to 
the  mode  of  punishment.  The  latter  sought  to  inspire 
terror  by  the  solemn  spectacle  of  a public  act  of  justice,  j 
in  which  the  scaffold  was  crowded  with  criminals.  ... 
The  report  of  the  autos  da  fe  (q.  v.)  of  Seville  and  Val- 
ladolid blazed  at  onec  over  Europe;  the  executions  of  I 
Rome  made  less  noise  in  the  city,  because  they  were  j 


less  splendid  as  well  as  more  frequent,  and  the  rumor  of 
them  died  away  before  it  could  reach  the  ear  of  foreign- 
ers.” But  all  that  Rome  could  accomplish  in  Naples,  in 
spite  of  her  cunning,  was  the  establishment  of  an  inde- 
pendent Inquisition,  such  as  Venice  had  permitted.  In 
Sicily,  on  the  other  hand,  Spain  furnished  a general  in- 
quisitor, and,  though  abolished  for  a time,  the  office  was 
restored  in  1782,  and  remained  in  force  until  Napoleon, 
as  king  of  Italy,  did  away  with  it  throughout  the  realm 
in  1808.  The  fall  of  Napoleon,  of  course,  at  once  ena- 
bled the  papal  see  to  re-establish  the  Inquisition,  but, 
though  Pius  VII  improved  the  opportimity  (in  1814), 
it  did  not  spread  far,  and  met  with  great  opposition. 
In  Sardinia,  where  Gregory  XVI  restored  it  in  1833, 
it  was  not  discontinued  until  the  Revolution  of  1848 
again  did  away  with  it.  “In  Tuscany  it  was  arranged 
that  three  commissioners,  elected  by  the  congregation 
at  Rome,  along  with  the  local  inquisitor,  should  judge 
in  all  causes  of  religion,  and  intimate  their  sentence  to 
the  duke,  who  was  bound  to  carry  it  into  execution.  In 
addition,  it  (the  Holy  Office)  was  continually  soliciting 
the  local  authorities  to  send  such  as  were  accused,  espe- 
cially if  they  were  either  ecclesiastical  persons  or  stran- 
gers, to  be  tried  by  the  Inquisition  at  Borne.”  Every- 
where within  the  territory  persecution  was  let  loose. 
Especially  during  the  political  reactions  of  1849  the  in- 
quisitorial tribunal  was  perhaps  nowhere  so  active  and 
so  severe  in  its  dealings  as  in  Tuscany  (compare  Ranke, 
History  of  the  Papacy , ii,  156  sq.).  It  is  only  since  the 
embodiment  of  that  province  with  Italy  (1859)  that  the 
country  got  rid  of  this  great  curse,  from  which  all  Italy 
suffered;  and  “popish  historians”  certainly  “do  more 
homage  to  truth  than  credit  to  their  cause  when  they 
say  that  the  erection  of  the  Inquisition  was  the  salva- 
tion of  the  ( 'atliolic  Church  in  Italy.”  It  certainly  does 
not  verify  itself  in  our  own  days,  though  the  tribunal 
of  the  Inquisition  still  exists  at  Rome,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  a congregation,  and  though  the  last  oecumenical 
council,  which  the  landless  pope,  Pius  IX,  has  just  de- 
clared adjourned  sine  die,  has  but  lately  passed  two  can- 
ons (canon  vi  and  canon  xii,  I)e  Ecclesia  Christi)  in  its 
favor.  Its  action,  by  the  circumstances  of  the  day,  is 
mainly  confined  to  the  examination  of  books,  and  to  the 
trial  of  ecclesiastical  offences  and  questions  of  Church 
law,  as  in  the  late  ease  of  the  Jewish  boy  Mortara; 
and  its  most  remarkable  prisoner  in  recent  times  was  an 
Oriental  impostor,  who,  by  means  of  forged  credentials, 
succeeded  in  obtaining  his  ordination  as  a bishop. 

The  Inquisition  was  introduced  into  Poland  bv  pope 
John  XXII  in  1327,  but.  it  did  not  subsist  there  very 
long;  and  all  attempts  of  Rome  to  introduce  it  into  Eng- 
land were  in  vain. 

Spanish  Inquisition. — “The  life  of  every  devout  Span- 
iard,” says  Milman  (Latin  Christianity , v,  239),  “was  a 
perpetual  crusade.  By  temperament  and  by  position  he 
was  in  constant  adventurous  warfare  against  the  ene- 
mies of  the  Cross:  hatred  of  the  Jew,  of  the  Mohamme- 
dan, was  the  banner  under  which  he  served;  it  was  the 
oath  of  his  chivalry : that  hatred,  in  all  its  intensity, 
was  soon  and  easily  extended  to  the  heretic.”  No  won- 
der, then,  that  pope  Gregory  IX.  alter  the  Inquisition 
bad  assumed  general  form  in  France  and  Germany,  in- 
troduced it  into  Spain,  and  that  it  proved  to  be  a plant 
on  a most  congenial  soil;  for  it  was  in  Spain  that  “it 
took  root  at  once,  and  in  times  attained  a magnitude 
which  it  never  reached  in  any  other  country.”  It  was 
first  introduced  into  Aragon,  where,  in  1242.  the  Coun- 
cil of  Tarragona  gave  the  instructions  which  were  to 
serve  the  “holy  office” erected  here  as  elsewhere  by  the 
Dominicans.  “Accustomed, in  the  confessional,  to  pen- 
etrate into  the  secrets  of  conscience,  they  (the  Domini- 
ieans)  converted  to  the  destruction  of  the  bodies  of  men 
all  those  arts  which  a false  zeal  had  taught  them  to  em- 
ploy for  the  saving  of  their  souls.  Inflamed  with  a pas- 
sion for  extirpating  heresy,  and  persuading  themselves  ■ 
that  the  end  sanctified  the  means,  they  not  only  acted 
upon,  but  formally  laid  down,  as  a rule  for  their  conduct, 


INQUISITION  601  INQUISITION 


maxims  founded  on  the  grossest  deceit  and  artifice,  ac- 
cording to  which  they  sought  in  every  way  to  ensnare 
their  victims,  and  by  means  of  false  statements,  delusory 
promises,  and  a tortuous  course  of  examination,  to  be- 
tray them  into  confessions  which  proved  fatal  to  their 
lives  and  fortunes.  To  this  mental  torture  was  soon  af- 
ter added  the  use  of  bodily  tortures,  together  with  the 
concealment  of  the  names  of  witnesses”  (M‘Crie,  Ref.  in 
iSpain,  p.  85  sf].).  The  arm  of  persecution  was  directed 
with  special  severity,  in  the  loth  and  14th  centuries, 
against  the  Albigenses  (q.  v.),  who,  from  the  proximity 
and  political  relations  of  Aragon  and  Provence,  had  be- 
come numerous  in  the  former  kingdom.  Indeed,  the 
persecutions  appear  to  have  been  chiefly  confined  to  this 
unfortunate  sect,  “and  there  is  no  evidence  that  the 
‘holy  office, ’ notwithstanding  papal  briefs  to  that  effect, 
was  fully  organized  in  Castile  before  the  reign  of  Isa- 
bella. This  is,  perhaps,  imputable  to  the  paucity  of 
heretics  in  that  kingdom.  It  cannot,  at  any  rate,  be 
charged  to  any  lukewarmness  in  its  sovereigns,  since 
they,  from  the  time  of  St.  Ferdinand,  who  heaped  the 
fagots  on  the  blazing  pile  with  his  own  hands,  down  to 
that  of  John  the  Second,  Isabella’s  father,  who  hunted 
the  unhappy  heretics  of  Biscay,  like  so  many  wild  beasts, 
among  the  mountains,  had  ever  evinced  a lively  zeal  for 
the  orthodox  faith.”  Upon  the  whole,  the  progress  of 
the  Inquisition  during  the  14th  century  was  steady,  and 
its  vigor  and  energy  constantly  on  the  increase.  Its 
jurisdiction  the  inquisitors  succeeded  in  enlarging,  and 
they  severally  multiplied  its  ramifications;  autos  da  fe 
(q.  v.)  were  celebrated  in  a number  of  places,  and  its 
victims  were  not  a few.  “By  the  middle  of  the  15th 
century  the  Albigensian  heresy  had  become  nearly  ex- 
tirpated by  the  Inquisition  of  Aragon,  so  that  this  in- 
fernal engine  might  have  been  suffered  to  sleep  undis- 
turbed from  want  of  sufficient  fuel  to  keep  it  in  motion, 
when  new  and  ample  materials  were  discovered  in  the 
unfortunate  race  of  Israel."  “The  ‘new  Christians,’  or 
‘ converts,’  as  those  who  had  renounced  the  faith  of  their 
fathers  were  denominated,  were  occasionally  preferred  to 
high  ecclesiastical  dignities,  which  they  illustrated  by 
their  integrity  and  learning.  They  were  intrusted  with 
municipal  offices  in  the  various  cities  of  Castile;  and  as 
their  wealth  furnished  an  obvious  resource  for  repairing, 
by  way  of  marriage,  the  decayed  fortunes  of  the  nobil- 
ity, there  was  scarcely  a family  of  rank  in  the  land 
whose  blood  had  not  been  contaminated  at  some  pe- 
riod or  other  by  mixture  with  the  mala  sanyre,  as  it 
came  afterwards  to  be  termed,  of  the.  house  of  Judah  ; 
an  ignominious  stain  which  no  time  has  been  deemed 
sufficient  wholly  to  purge.”  Many  of  these  noble  men, 
of  a race  that  can  lay  claim  to  the  highest  nobility  that 
exists  among  men,  felt  that  the  irksome  task  of  dissim- 
ulation which  they  had  undertaken  was  too  much  below 
the  dignity  of  a true  Israelite,  and  rather  than  enjoy 
the  favors  of  a nation  as  apostates  from  a religion  which 
they  still  held  to  be  the  only  true  one  (and  who  would 
expect  that  Burnish  treatment  and  lJomish  Christian  ex- 
ample could  instill  confidence  and  produce  impressions 
favorable  to  the  cause  of  Christ?),  preferred  an  open  con- 
fession of  the  opinions  which  they  cherished  in  their 
hearts,  even  at  the  expense  of  losing  positions  of  promi- 
nence to  which  they  were  ably  fitted,  but  from  which,  as 
is  too  often  the  case  even  in  our  own  day,  their  religious 
convictions,  if  openly  avowed,  not  only  debarred  them, 
but  which  even  endangered  their  very  life.  But  Bom- 
ish  priests  could  not,  of  course,  be  expected  to  toler- 
ate heresy  in  any  form,  “especially  the  Dominicans, 
who  seem  to  have  inherited  the  quick  scent  for  heresy 
which  distinguished  their  frantic  founder;  they  were 
not  slow  in  sounding  the  alarm,  and  the  superstitions 
populace,  easily  roused  to  acts  of  violence  in  the  name 
of  religion,  began  to  exhibit  the  most  tumultuous  move- 
ments, and  actually  massacred  the  constable  of  Castile 
in  an  attempt  to  suppress  them  at  Jaen,  the  year  pre- 
ceding the  accession  of  Isabella”  (Prescott,  Ferdinand 
and  Isabella , i,  235  sq.).  After  the  union  of  Spain  under 


one  kingdom,  governed  by  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  to- 
wards the  close  of  the  15th  century,  the  Inquisition  be- 
came general.  It  was  at  this  time  that  the  inquisitorial 
tribunal  underwent  “ what  its  friends  have  honored  with 
the  name  of  a reform;  in  consequence  of  which  it  be- 
came a more  terrible  engine  of  persecution  than  before. 
Under  this  new  form  it  is  usually  called  the  Modern  In- 
quisition, though  it  may  with  equal  propriety  bear  the 
name  of  the  Spanish,  as  it  originated  in  Spain,  and  has 
been  confined  to  that  country,  including  Portugal,  and 
the  dominions  subject  to  the  two  monarchies.  . . . The 
principles  of  the  ancient  and  modem  Inquisition  were 
radically  the  same,  but  they  assumed  a more  malignant 
form  under  the  latter  than  under  the  former.  Under 
the  ancient  Inquisition  the  bishops  always  had  a certain 
degree  of  control  over  its  proceedings;  the  law  of  secre- 
cy was  not  so  rigidly  enforced  in  practice ; greater  lib- 
erty was  allowed  to  the  accused  on  their  defence ; and 
in  some  countries,  as  in  Aragon,  in  consequence  of  the 
civil  rights  acquired  by  the  people,  the  inquisitors  were 
restrained  from  sequestrating  the  property  of  those 
whom  they  convicted  of  heresy.  But.  the  leading  dif- 
ference between  the  two  institutions  consisted  in  the  or- 
ganization of  the  latter  into  one  great  independent  tri- 
bunal, which,  extending  over  the  whole  kingdom,  was 
governed  by  one  code  of  laws,  and  yielded  implicit  obe- 
dience to  one  head.  The  inquisitor  general  possessed 
an  authority  scarcely  inferior  to  that  of  the  king  or  the 
pope;  by  joining  with  either  of  them,  he  proved  an 
overmatch  for  the  other;  and  when  supported  by  both, 
his  power  was  irresistible.  The  ancient  Inquisition  was 
a powerful  engine  for  harassing  and  rooting  out  a small 
body  of  dissidents;  the  modern  Inquisition  stretched  its 
iron  arms  over  a whole  nation,  upon  which  it  lay  like  a 
monstrous  incubus,  paralyzing  its  exertions,  crushing  its 
energies,  and  extinguishing  every  other  feeling  but  a 
sense  of  weakness  and  terror”  (M‘Crie,  Ref.  in  Spain,  p. 
86,  103).  Most  prominent  among  those  who  were  ac- 
tive in  bringing  about  this  new  order  of  things  were 
the  archbishop  of  Seville,  Petro  Gonzalez  de  Mendoza, 
the  Franciscan  (afterwards  cardinal)  Ximenes,  and  the 
Dominican  prior  Torquemada.  But  to  the  credit  of  Is- 
abella be  it  said,  that  it  was  only  her  zeal  for  the  cause 
of  her  Church  that  led  her,  when  misguided,  to  commit 
the  unfortunate  error;  “an  error  so  grave  that,  like  a 
vein  in  some  noble  piece  of  statuary,  it  gives  a sinis- 
ter expression  to  her  otherwise  unblemished  character” 
(Prescott).  Indeed,  it  was  only  after  repeated  importu- 
nities of  the  clergy,  particularly  of  those  whom  she  be- 
lieved to  be  sincere  as  herself  in  the  zeal  for  the  Bom- 
ish  religion,  and  only  these  when  seconded  by  the  ar- 
guments of  Ferdinand,  who,  to  his  shame  be  it  said,  fa- 
vored the  project  because  he  believed  it  likely  to  result 
in  filling  his  coffers  by  means  of  confiscations,  that  she 
consented  to  solicit  from  the  pope  a bull  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  “holy  office"  in  Castile.  “Sixtus  IV, 
who  at  that  time  filled  the  pontifical  chair,  easily  dis- 
cerning the  sources  of  wealth  anil  influence  which  this 
measure  opened  to  the  court  of  Borne,  readily  complied 
with  the  petition  of  the  sovereigns,  and  expedited  a bull 
bearing  date  Nov.  1, 1478,  authorizing  them  to  appoint 
two  or  three  ecclesiastics  inquisitors  for  the  detection 
and  suppression  of  heresy  throughout  their  dominions” 
(Prescott,  i,  243, 240).  The  appointment  of  these  offi- 
cers was  made  Sept.  17, 1480,  the  clergy  in  confidence 
with  the  queen  professing  to  have  failed  in  their  at- 
tempts “ to  illuminate  the  benighted  Israelites  by  means 
of  friendly  exhortation  and  a candid  exposition  of  the 
true  principles  of  Christianity,”  which  Isabella  hai)  coun- 
selled before  violent  measures  were  resorted  to.  Janu- 
ary 2,1481,  the  new  inquisitors  commenced  their  pro- 
ceedings in  the  Dominican  convent  of  St.  Paul,  at  Se- 
ville. But  the  tribunal  did  not  really  assume  a perma- 
nent form  until  two  years  later,  when  the  Dominican 
monk  Thomas  de  Torquemada,  the  queen’s  confessor, 
subsequently  raised  to  the  rank  of  prior  of  Santa  (,’rnz 
in  Segovia,  was  placed  at  its  head  as  inquisitor  general, 


INQUISITION  602  INQUISITION 


first  of  Castile,  and  afterwards  of  Aragon.  “ This  man,  I 
who  concealed  more  pride  under  his  monastic  weeds  j 
than  might  have  furnished  forth  a convent  of  his  order,  | 
was  one  of  that  class  with  whom  zeal  passes  for  religion, 
and  who  testify  their  zeal  by  a fiery  persecution  of  those  , 
whose  creed  differs  from  their  own ; who  compensate 
for  their  abstinence  from  sensual  indulgence  by  giving 
scope  to  those  deadlier  vices  of  the  heart,  pride,  bigotry', 
and  intolerance,  which  are  no  less  opposed  to  virtue,  and 
are  far  more  extensively  mischievous  to  society"  (Pres- 
cott. i.  247).  Torquemada  at  once  set  about  his  work, 
appointing  his  assessors,  and  erecting  subordinate  tribu- 
nals in  different  cities  of  the  united  kingdom.  Over 
the  whole  was  placed  the  Council  of  the  Supreme,  con- 
sisting of  the  inquisitor  general  as  president,  and  three  ( 
counsellors,  two  of  whom  were  doctors  of  law.  His  next 
employment  was  the  formation  of  a body  of  laws  for  the 
government  of  his  newf  tribunal.  This  appeared  in  1484 ; 
additions  to  it  followed  from  time  to  time;  and  as  a di-  j 
versitv  of  practice  had  crept  into  the  subordinate  courts,  i 
the  inquisitor  general  Valdes  in  1501  made  a revisal  of  1 
the  whole  code,  which  was  published  in  eighty-one  ar- 
ticles, and  continues,  with  the  exception  of  a few'  slight 
alterations,  to  be  the  law'  to  this  day.  They  are  sub- 
stantially as  follows:  the  accused  was  invited  three 
times  edicialiter  to  appear.  If  he  did  not  come  before 
the  tribunal,  he  was  excommunicated  in  contumaciam, 
and  condemned  to  pay  a fine,  under  reservation  of  more 
severe  punishment  if  the  Inquisition  saw  fit  to  apply 
such.  Seldom  did  any  one  escape,  for  familiars,  the 
holy  Hermandad,  and  the  Congregation  of  the  Cruciada 
tracked  mercilessly  all  who  were  denounced  to  the  Inqui- 
sition. If  the  accused  appeared  before  the  court  he  was 
at  once  seized,  and  from  that  moment  all  his  relations 
and  friends  were  to  abandon  him  as  an  outlaw',  and  he 
was  not  even  permitted  to  give  proofs  of  his  innocence. 
The  prisoner  and  his  house  were  now  thoroughly  search- 
ed, especially  for  papers  or  hooks,  a list  taken  of  all  his 
possessions,  and. in  general,  his  goods  sequestered  a.  once, 
to  provide  beforehand  for  the  expenses  of  his  trial.  His 
hair  was  cut  to  make  his  recognition  more  certain  in  case 
he  should  escape,  and  he  was  placed  in  a dark  cell.  If 
he  confessed  his  real  or  imputed  sin,  he  did  indeed  es- 
cape with  his  life,  as  his  confession  was  considered  a 
proof  of  repentance,  but  he  and  all  his  family  were  dis- 
honored, and  hecame  incapable  of  holding  any  office.  If 
he  asserted  his  innocence,  and  there  was  not  sufficient 
proof  against  him  to  condemn  him,  he  was  liberated, 
but  carefully  watched  by  th c familiares  as  an  object  of 
suspicion,  and  generally  was  soon  arrested  a second  time.  I 
Now'  commenced  against  him  the  real,  slow'  trial  of  the  I 
Inquisition,  conducted  after  the  Direct onum  Inquisitori-  ' 
um  of  the  grand  inquisitor  of  Aragon,  Nicolas  Eytneri-  j 
cus.  When  the  prisoner  refused  to  acknowledge  his 
fault  at  the  first  interrogatory,  he  was  remanded  to  pris- 
on ; after  many  months  he  was  again  brought  forth,  and 
asked  to  swear  before  a crucifix  that  he  would  tell  the 
truth.  If  now  he  did  not  confess,  he  was  immediately 
considered  guilty,  otherwise  he  was  plied  with  leading 
questions  until  thoroughly  bewildered.  The  defensor 
was  not  allowed  to  take  his  client’s  part,  hut  only  to  in- 
vite him  to  declare  the  truth.  Witnesses  were  not 
named,  and  their  testimony,  the  truth  of  which  they 
were  not  required  to  prove,  was  only  made  known  in  dis- 
connected fragments,  and  years  after  it  had  been  given. 
Any  sort  of  testimony  was  admitted.  Two  witnesses 
who  would  only  testify  of  a hearsay  were  considered 
equivalent  to  an  eye-witness.  The  accuser  was  exam- 
ined as  a witness.  Friends  and  members  of  the  family 
were  also  admitted  to  testify,  but  only  against  the  pris- 
oner, never  in  his  favor.  If  the  accused  still  persisted 
in  asserting  his  innocence,  he  w'as  now  tortured  by  the 
whip,  the  water,  and  fire,  under  the  direction  of  the  in- 
quisitors and  the  bishop  of  the  diocese.  If  the  prisoner 
then  confessed,  he  was  tortured  a second  time,  to  make 
him  declare  his  motives,  and  afterwards  a third  time, 
to  make  him  name  his  accomplices;  and  when  the  in- 


quisitors had  obtained  from  him  all  they  wanted,  they 
left  him  to  his  sufferings,  without  allowing  a physician 
to  assist  him.  After  this  confession  the  prisoner  was 
considered  penitent,  yet  recantation  was  still  demanded 
of  him  de  levi;  if  heresy  or  Judaism  was  his  crime,  de  ve- 
hement; and  when  he  became  reconciled  to  the  Church, 
in  forma,  which  latter  included  a free  assent  to  all  fur- 
ther punishments  the  Inquisition  might  yet  see  fit  to 
inflict  on  the  penitent.  After  that  he  ivas  generally 
condemned  to  imprisonment  for  life,  or  sent  to  the  gal- 
leys, his  possessions  sequestered,  and  his  family  dishon- 
ored. Those  who  confessed  and  recanted  at  once  were 
punished  only  by  having  to  wear  for  a certain  time  the 
sanbenito  (q.  v.),  a frock  without  sleeves,  with  a red  cross 
of  St.  Andrew  before  and  behind,  over  a black  under- 
frock  (com]>.  Encyclop.  Britan,  xii,  390).  The  penitent 
( sanbenitado ) who  laid  it  aside  before  the  appointed 
time  was  considered  as  unrepenting;  when  he  had  ac- 
complished his  penance,  the  sanbenito  was  hung  up  in 
the  church  with  a card  bearing  his  name,  and  a state- 
ment of  his  offence.  A relapse  wras  punished  by  death. 
When  the  three  degrees  of  torture  failed  to  elicit  a con- 
fession, the  accused  was  put  into  a worse  prison : if  this 
did  not  succeed,  the  inquisitors  tried  the  opposite  plan: 
they  made  the  accused  comfortable,  allowed  his  family 
and  friends  to  have  access  to  him,  and  led  him  to  think 
that  a confession  of  his  fault  and  profession  of  repent- 
ance would  procure  his  pardon.  When  one  suspected 
of  heresy  died,  or  when  such  suspicion  arose  after  his 
death,  the  trial  was  carried  on  notwithstanding.  If 
forty  years  had  elapsed  between  the  death  of  the  party 
and  his  accusation,  his  descendants  were  permitted  to 
remain  in  their  possessions,  but  were  dishonored,  and  in- 
capable of  holding  office.  If  the  remains  of  the  accused 
could  be  found,  they  were  burnt ; if  not,  then  he  was 
burnt  in  effigy.  When  a number  of  trials  were  con- 
cluded, an  auto  da  fe  took  place,  i.  e.  the  condemned 
were,  with  great  pomp  and  parade,  publicly  burnt.  See 
Aeto  da  Fe.  A very  able  article  in  the  Galaxy  (May, 
1870,  p.  047  sq.),  entitled  Ten  Years  in  Rome,  the  reader 
would  do  well  to  examine.  It  is  written  by  one  who 
has  held  high  office  under  the  present  Roman  pontiff, 
and  who  has  enjoyed  peculiar  advantages  for  an  ex- 
tended examination  of  the  authentic  sources  on  the  sub- 
ject of  the  Inquisition.  The  position  of  subordinate 
member  of  the  Inquisition  ( familiare ),  whose  duties 
consisted  in  arresting  the  accused  and  taking  them  to 
prison,  was  much  sought  after,  even  by  members  of  the 
highest  families,  on  account  of  the  privileges  and  indul- 
gences attached  to  it.  The  tribunal  of  Madrid  had 
branches  in  the  provinces  and  colonics,  each  composed 
of  three  inquisitors,  three  secretaries,  an  alguazil,  three 
receivers  and  assessors,  familiars  and  jailers.  Every  one 
connected  with  the  Inquisition  had  to  submit  to  the 
Casa  limpia,  i.  e.  to  prove  his  descent  from  honorable 
and  orthodox  parents,  who  had  never  been  summoned 
before  the  Inquisition,  and  to  take  the  oath  of  secrecy. 

From  the  details  of  the  proceedings  of  the  inquisito- 
rial tribunal  which  we  have  just  enumerated,  it  clearly 
follows  that  “ the  Inquisition  possessed  powers  which  en- 
abled it  effectually  to  arrest  the  progress  of  knowledge, 
and  to  crush  every  attempt  which  might  be  made  for 
the  reformation  of  religion  and  the  Church."  The  ter- 
rors which  Torquemada’s  tribunal  spread  hv  imprison- 
ment, tortures,  etc.,  not  only  called  forth  complaints 
from  the  Cortes,  but  even  provoked  rebellions,  followed 
by  assassinations  of  the  inquisitors  (Llorente,  i,  187  sq., 
211  sq.)  ; but  it  still  prosecuted  its  bloody  work.  The 
suspicion  of  belonging  to  Judaism  or  Islamism,  of  pro- 
tecting Jews  or  Moors,  of  practising  soothsaying,  mag- 
ic, and  blasphemy,  caused  an  endless  number  of  trials. 
Upon  the  inquisitor  general’s  advice,  all  Jew's  who  would 
not  become  Christians  were  compelled  (1492)  to  emi- 
grate ; a similar  fate  befell  the  Moors  (1501).  The  num- 
ber of  victims,  as  stated  by  Llorente,  the  popular  histo- 
rian of  the  Inquisition,  is  positively  appalling.  He  af- 
firms that  during  the  sixteen  years  of  Torquemada’s 


IXQUISITIOX  603  IXQUISITIOX 


tenure  of  office  (1483-1498)  nearly  9000  were  condemned 
to  the  flames,  0500  were  burned  in  effigy,  ami  more  than 
90,000  were  subjected  to  various  penalties,  besides  a still 
larger  number  who  were  reconciled;  “a  term  which 
must  not  be  misunderstood  by  the  reader  to  signify  any- 
thing like  a pardon  or  amnesty,  but  only  the  commuta- 
tion of  a capital  sentence  for  inferior  penalties,  as  tines, 
civil  incapacity,  very  generally  total  confiscation  of  prop- 
erty, and  not  unfreqnently  imprisonment  for  life”  (Pres- 
cott, Ferd.  and  Isab.  i,  253 ; comp,  also  p.  267).  I Iis  suc- 
cessor, Diego  Deza,  in  eight  years  (1499-1506),  accord- 
ing to  the  same  writer,  put  above  1600  to  a similar 
death.  Under  the  third  general  inquisitor,  Francis  Xi- 
menes  de  Cisneros  (1507-17),  2536  persons  were  killed, 
1368  were  burned  in  effigy,  and  47,263  were  punished  in 
other  ways  (Llorente,  iv,  252).  Not  much  better  are 
the  records  of  the  proceedings  of  the  other  successive 
inquisitors  general.  M'Crie  ( Reform . in  Spain , p.  109) 
very  rightly  asserts  that  cardinal  Ximenes,  more  than 
any  other  inquisitor  general,  contributed  towards  riv- 
eting the  chains  of  political  and  spiritual  despotism 
of  Spain.  “Possessed  of  talents  that  enabled  him  to 
foresee  the  dire  effects  which  the  Inquisition  would  in- 
evitably produce,  he  was  called  to  take  part  in  public 
affairs  at  a time  when  these  effects  had  decidedly  ap- 
peared. It  was  in  his  power  to  abolish  that  execrable 
tribunal  altogether  as  an  insufferable  nuisance,  or  at 
least  to  impose  such  checks  upon  its  procedure  as  would 
have  rendered  it  comparatively  harmless.  Vet  he  not 
only  allowed  himself  to  be  placed  at  its  head,  but  em- 
ployed all  his  influence  and  address  in  defeating  every 
attempt  to  reform  its  worst  and  most  glaring  abuses.  . . . 
Ximenes  had  obtained  the  title  of  a great  man  from 
foreigners  as  well  as  natives  of  Spain.  But  in  spite  of 
the  eulogiums  passed  upon  him,  I cannot  help  being  of 
opinion,  with  a modern  writer,  that  Ximenes  bore  a 
striking  resemblance  to  Philip  II,  with  this  difference, 
that  the  cardinal  was  possessed  of  higher  talents,  and 
that  his  proceedings  were  characterized  by  a certain 
openness  and  impartiality,  the  result  of  the  unlimited 
confidence  which  he  placed  in  his  own  powers.  His 
character  was  essentially  that  of  a monk,  in  whom  the 
severity  of  his  order  was  combined  with  the  impetuos- 
ity of  blood  which  belongs  to  the  natives  of  the  South” 
(p.  110-112).  Roman  Catholics,  of  course,  loudly  pro- 
test against  the  credibility  of  these  fearful  allegations, 
assert  that  Llorente  was  a violent  partisan,  and  allege 
that  in  his  work  on  the  Basque  Provinces  he  had  al- 
ready proved  himself  a venal  and  unscrupulous  fabrica- 
tor; but  they  find  it  impossible  to  disprove  his  accura- 
cy, and  all  that  can  possibly  be  done  we  see  clearly  in 
the  efforts  of  one  of  the  Catholic  critics — Ilefele,  in  his 
Life  of  Cardinal  Ximenes — Avho  produces  many  exam- 
ples of  Llorente's  statements  which  he  alleges  are  of 
a contradictory  and  exaggerated  nature.  Some  Protes- 
tant historians,  of  course,  fear  that  Llorente  may  have 
been  too  severe,  as  is  apt  to  be  the  case  with  all  apos- 
tates, and  thus  Prescott,  in  his  Ferdinand  and  Isabella 
(iii,  467-470),  has  pointed  out  many  instances  similar  to 
those  which  Hefele  produces,  and  Ranke  does  not  hesi- 
tate ( Fursten  und  Volker  des  Siull.  Europas,  i,  242)  to  im- 
peach his  honesty;  Prescott  even  pronounces  his  “com- 
putations greatly  exaggerated,”  and  his  “ estimates  most 
improbable”  (iii,  4(58).  Still,  with  all  the  deductions 
which  it  is  possible  to  make,  even  Roman  Catholics 
must  acknowledge  that  the  working  of  the  Inquisition 
in  Spain,  and  in  its  dependencies  in  the  New  World  too, 
involves  an  amount  of  cruelty  which  it  is  impossible  to 
contemplate  without  horror. 

But,  in  spite  of  the  terrors  which  it  spread,  voices 
were  repeatedly  heard  in  Spain  to  pronounce  against  it, 
especially  when  it  developed  all  its  power  to  crush  out 
evangelical  doctrines  during  the  great  Reformation  of 
the  16th  century.  Hatred  towards  it  had  spread  itself 
far  through  the  country  (M'Crie,  Reformation  in  Spain, 
chap,  v);  and  when  Charles  V ascended  the  throne,  the 
Cortes  of  Castile,  Aragon,  and  Catalonia  endeavored  to 


bring  to  pass  a reformation  of  the  tribunal  (Llorente,  i, 
376  sq.).  Negotiations  to  accomplish  this  end  were  en- 
tered into  with  the  papal  chair,  and  concessions  were 
made,  but  they  were  not  carried  out.  It  directed  its 
power  now  against  those  who  openly  or  secretly  adhered 
to  evangelical  doctrines.  It  published  annually  an  edict 
of  denunciation,  and  convened  its  chief  tribunals  at  Se- 
ville and  Valladolid.  But  it  also  directed  its  power 
against  such  members  of  its  own  Church  as  did  not  ac- 
cept the  doctrines  of  the  Council  of  Trent  concerning 
justification.  As,  however,  they  succeeded  in  entirely 
suppressing  Protestantism  in  Spain  before  the  beginning 
of  the  17th  century,  executions  liecame  rarer,  and  in  the 
latter  half  of  the  17th  century  the  Inquisition  abated  its 
rigor,  and  was  active  principally  in  suppressing  books 
ami  persecuting  those  who  possessed  or  circulated  for- 
bidden books.  Autos  da  fe  were  hardly  ever  heard  of, 
and,  as  a result,  the  tribunal  was  less  feared;  and,  final- 
ly, even  Charles  III  forbade  first  the  execution  of  capi- 
tal punishment  without  royal  warrant,  and  afterwards 
also  set  further  limits  to  the  power  of  the  Inquisition, 
preventing  it  from  rendering  any  final  decision  without 
the  assent  of  the  king,  and  also  from  making  any  new 
regulations.  In  1762  the  grand  inquisitor  was  exiled 
into  a convent  for  condemning  a book  against  the  king’s 
will.  In  1770  his  minister  Aranda  circumscribed  its 
power  still  further  by  forbidding  the  imprisonment  of 
anv  roval  subject,  unless  his  guilt  was  well  substan- 
tiated;'and  in  1784  followed  the  provision  that  the  pa- 
pers of  every  suit  against  a grandee,  minister,  or  any 
other  officer  in  the  employ  of  the  king,  should  always 
be  presented  to  the  sovereign  for  inspection  before  judg- 
ment coidd  be  pronounced;  and  although  it  afterwards 
regained  ground  for  a while,  public  opinion  proved  too 
averse  to  it.  Even  the  pope  began  to  restrict  its  pow- 
ers, and  it  was  finally  abolished  in  Madrid,  Dec.  4,  1808, 
by  an  edict  of  Joseph  Napoleon.  Llorente  calculates 
that  from  the  time  of  its  introduction  into  Spain  (1481) 
to  that  date  (1808),  the  Inquisition  had  condemned  in 
Spain  alone  341,021  persons.  Of  these,  31,912  persons 
were  burnt  alive,  17,659  in  effigy,  and  291,456  others 
punished  severely.  When  Ferdinand  VII  regained  the 
throne  of  Spain  in  1814,  one  of  his  first  acts  was  the  re- 
establishment of  the  Inquisition,  but  also  one  ol  the  first 
acts  of  the  Revolution  of  1820  was  the  destruction  of 
the  palace  of  the  Inquisition  by  the  people,  and  the  in- 
stitution was  suppressed  by  the  Cortes,  let,  after  the 
restoration,  the  apostolical  party  continued  to  demand 
its  re-establishment;  an  inquisitorial  junta  was  organ- 
ized in  1825,  and  the  old  tribunal  finally  restored  in 
1826.  The  law  of  July  15,  1834,  again  suspended  the 
Inquisition,  after  sequestering  all  its  possessions,  and 
the  Constitution  of  1855  expressly  declares  that  no  one 
shall  he  made  to  suffer  for  his  faith.  Yet  in  1857  the 
Inquisition  showed  itself  still  very  vigorous  in  persecu- 
ting all  persons  suspected  of  Protestantism,  and  all  books 
containing  their  doctrines.  Such  as  were  found  with 
heretical  books  in  their  possession,  or  had  read  them, 
were  severely  punished.  The  great  political  changes 
which  the  last  few  years  have  wrought  on  all  the  civil- 
ized world  have  not  been  without  marked  effects  on 
•Spain,  and  have  removed  not  only  in  a measure,  but,  we 
hope,  altogether,  the  deplorable  effects  of  the  Romish 
spirit  of  immitigated  intolerance,  which  has  ever  been 
praised,  preached,  and  imperatively  enjoined  as  one  of 
the  highest  of  Christian  virtues  by  the  antichristian 
see  of  Rome.  Indeed  the  Inquisition,  not  only  in  Rome, 
but  in  every  land,  the  papacy  considered  its  master- 
piece, “ the  firmest  and  most  solid  support  of  its  power, 
both  spiritual  and  temporal.  Hence  it  put  all  things 
under  the  feet  of  its  tribunal  in  the  countries  subject  to 
its  authority.  There  the  most  extravagant  maxims 
were  held  to  be  incontestable,  and  the  most  unfounded 
pretensions  established  beyond  dispute.  Thus  the  in- 
fallibility of  the  popes,  their  superiority  to  general 
councils,  their  dominion  over  the  possessions  of  all  the 
churches  in  the  world,  the  power  to  dispose  of  them  as 


INQUISITION 


604 


INQUISITION 


they  pleased,  their  pretended  authority  ever  the  tempo- 
ral concerns  of  sovereigns,  the  right  which  they  claim 
of  deposing  them,  of  absolving  their  subjects  from  the 
oath  of  allegiance,  and  giving  away  their  dominions, 
are  maxims  which  none  dared  to  doubt  in  the  countries 
of  the  Inquisition,  much  less  to  contest  them,  lest  they 
should  expose  themselves  to  all  the  horrors  of  that  de- 
testable tribunal.  No  wonder  that  the  popes,  in  return, 
so  warmly  supported  all  its  pretensions,  and  earnestly 
and  incessantly  labored  to  procure  for  it  so  extensive  an 
authority,  that  it  at  length  became  formidable  to  the 
very  princes  by  whom  it  was  adopted”  (Slioberl,  Perse- 
cutions of  Popery,  i,  113  sq.).  These  assertions,  written 
(in  1844)  long  before  the  occurrence  of  the  late  so  au- 
spicious events,  deserve  especial  consideration,  as  among 
the  first  changes  which  the  downfall  of  the  temporal 
power  of  the  papacy  must  inevitably  bring  is  religions 
freedom  all  over  the  world.  (Comp,  also  Gnettee,  The 
Papacy  [N.  Y.  18G7,  12mo],  Introd.  p.  4 sq.) 

Portugal.— From  Spain  the  Inquisition  was  introduced 
into  the  different  countries  over  which  it  held  its  sway. 
Thus  it  was  not  really  introduced  into  Portugal  until 
its  union  with  Spain  in  1557,  and  only  then  after  much 
opposition.  It  is  true,  under  king  Joan  III  of  Portugal, 


from  the  country,  and  the  inquisitorial  tribunal  was 
commanded  by  law  to  communicate  to  the  arrested  the 
accusations  presented  against  him  or  them,  the  names 
of  the  accusers  and  witnesses,  the  right  of  an  attorney 
to  hold  communication  with  the  accused,  and  it  was 
furthermore  decreed  that  no  sentence  should  be  execu- 
ted without  the  assent  of  the  civil  courts.  At  the  same 
time,  the  auto  da  fe  was  also  forbidden.  After  the  fall 
of  Pombal  and  the  death  of  Joseph  I the  clergy  regain- 
ed their  power  for  a season,  but  the  spirit  of  enlighten- 
ment had  made  too  great  inroads  not  to  conflict  with 
the  interference  of  the  priests,  and  under  king  John  VI 
(1818-26),  when  “this  great  engine  for  the  coercion  of 
the  human  mind,  if  worked  with  the  unscrupulous,  im- 
passive resolution  of  Machiavellianism,”  could  no  longer 
be  made  to  accomplish  its  purpose,  it  breathed  its  last, 
and  the  very  records  of  its  proceedings  were  condemned 
to  the  flames. 

Netherlands. — From  Spain  the  Inquisition  was  also 
introduced  into  the  Netherlands  as  early  as  the  13th 
century,  and  from  this  time  forward  exerted  in  this 
country,  next  to  Spain,  her  authority  most  unscrupu- 
lously. Especially  active  was  its  tribunal  during  the 
Reformation.  After  a severe  edict  bv  Charles  Y at 


an  effort  was  made  to  establish  the  tribunal  against  the  Worms  against  the  heretics  (May  8,  1521),  lie  appoint- 
New-Christians  of  that  country,  imitating  the  Spaniards  ed  as  inquisitors  to  the  Netherlands  his  councillor,  Franz 
in  this  respect,  and  Ilenrique,  the  bishop  of  Centa,  a von  der  HuLst,  and  the  Carmelite  Nicolas  of  Egmont. 
former  Franciscan  monk  and  fanatic,  even  took  the  law  They  at  once  set  out  to  do  their  task,  and  to  inflict  the 
in  his  own  hands,  and  executed  live  New-Christians,  to  usual  penalties  on  their  victims — banishment,  etc. — and 
hasten  the  establishment  of  the  Inquisition.  Many  rea-  found  especial  helpmeets  in  the  regent  of  the  Nether- 
sons  swayed  in  favor  to  tolerate  the  Jews  in  Portugal,  lands,  Margaret  of  Austria,  in  connection  with  the  bish- 
and  they,  of  course,  were  in  that  country  the  first  against  op  of  Arras,  Granvella.  The  printing,  sale,  and  posses- 
wliom  the  tribunal  was  intended  to  direct  the  bloody  sion  of  heretical  books  were  strictly  forbidden,  and  the 
work.  In  1531  Clement  VI I was  even  persuaded  to  is-  magistrates  were  required,  under  penalty  of  loss  of  of- 
sne  a breve  (Dec.  17)  to  introduce  the  Inquisition,  but  lice,  to  be  active  in  discovering  heretics,  and  send  a 
already,  in  the  year  following  (Oct.  17, 1532),  he  revoked  quarterly  report  of  their  labors  to  the  regent;  the  in- 
this  order  (comp.  Hercidano,  Origan  da  Inquisigao  em  formers  to  receive  a considerable  reward  for  any  proof 
Portugal , i,  276  sq.,  et  al.).  Hut  when  the  Inquisition,  (Raumer’s  Briefe,  i,  164  sq.).  Nevertheless,  the  Refor- 
under  Spanish  influence,  was  at  last  introduced,  as  in  mation  spread,  and  the  Inquisition  was  not  even  able  to 
Spain,  it  became  also  in  Portugal  a tribunal  of  the  prevent  the  rise  of  fanatical  sects,  as  the  Anabaptists 
crown,  and  it  is  for  this  reason  Roman  Catholic  writ-  (q.  v.),  etc.  But  Charles,  determined  to  uproot  the  Ref- 
ers argue  that  the  see  of  Rome  cannot  be  held  respon-  ormation,  issued  a new  mandate  for  the  organization  of 
sible  for  the  horrible  deeds  that  it  enacted  in  these  two  the  Inquisition  after  the  Spanish  form  (April  20,  1550) 
countries  and  in  their  dependencies.  It  is  true,  some  (see  Sleidani  Commenturii,  ed.  clir.  car.  Am  Ende : Frcf. 
of  the  popes  protested  against  the  establishment  of  the  ad  M.  1785,  iii,  203;  Gerdcsii  1 list.  Reformat,  iii,  App. 


Inquisition  as  a state  tribunal,  hut  it  must  be  remem- 
bered that  the  opposition  was  directed  against  it  (as  in 
Italy,  above)  not  so  much  on  account  of  its  cruel  meas- 
ures, but  because  it  chose  to  be  independent  of  Rome. 
Indeed  the  popes,  feeling  their  power  insufficient  to  en- 
force obedience,  found  themselves  compelled,  from  mo 


p.  122).  But  this  attempt,  like  the  former  one,  also 
failed.  Maria,  the  widowed  queen  of  Hungary,  who  in 
secret  inclined  to  the  Reformation,  was  now  regent. 
Deputations  of  the  citizens  made  her  aware  of  the  dan- 
gers which  threatened  her  on  that  account ; she  went 
immediately  to  Germany  to  Charles,  and  was  success- 


tives  of  prudence,  to  tolerate  what  they  were  powerless  fill  in  effecting  a change  of  the  mandate  in  so  far  that 
to  suppress;  i.  e.  unable  to  establish  the  Inquisition  un-  in  a new  form  of  it  (issued  September  25,  1550)  the 
tier  their  own  immediate  control,  with  the  benefits  ac-  words  “ Inquisition”  and  “ inquisitors”  were  omitted, 
cruing  therefrom  all  flowing  into  their  own  treasury.  But  it  was  still  opposed,  and  could  only  be  published  in 
tlicjT  yielded  to  a state  tribunal,  that  gave  them  at  least  Antwerp  on  the  condition  of  the  municipal  rights  being 
a part  in  the  proceedings,  as  well  as  a part  of  the  spoils,  preserved  (Gerdesii,  ut  sup.  iii,  216  sq.).  That  the  In- 
The  highest  tribunal  of  the  Portuguese  Inquisition  was,  quisition  was  very  active  up  to  this  time  in  the  Netlier- 
of  course,  at  Lisbon,  the  capital  of  the  country,  and  the  lands  is  certain;  but  the  accounts  that,  under  Charles  Y, 
appointment  of  the  grand  inquisitor  at  the  pleasure  of  50,000,  or  even  100,000  persons  lost  their  lives  by  it  in 
the  king,  nominally  also  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  that  country  (Scnlteti  A nnales,  p.  87 ; Grotii  Ann  ales  et 
pope.  When,  finally,  Portugal  became  again  indepen-  Ilistorim  de  rebus  Belgicis,  Amst.  1658,  p.  12),  seems  to  be 
dent  under  the  duke  of  Braganza  as  John  IV  ( 1 640b,  exaggerated.  When  the  Netherlands  were  placed  un- 
an  effort  was  made  by  the  Royalists  to  abolish  the  In-  der  the  government  of  Philip  II  a more  severe  policy 
quisition,  and  to  deprive  it  of  the  right  of  sequestration,  was  initiated,  determined,  if  possible,  not  to  modify  the 
But  John  IV  found  too  strong  an  opposition  in  the  existing  heresies,  but  to  extinguish  them  altogether, 
priesthood,  especially  in  the  ever-plotting  Jesuits,  and  The  Inquisition  was  at  once  set.  in  full  motion,  and  a 
he  was  prevented  from  executing  his  intentions  success-  zeal  was  manifested  by  its  tribunal  worthy  of  a better 

cause.  But  the  cruelties  which  followed  a people  de- 
termined to  worship  their  God  in  the  manner  which 
seemed  to  them  a plain  duty  could  excite  no  fear,  but 
rather  added  new  fuel  to  the  flame  already  confined  to 
too  narrow  limits,  and  it  at  last  burst  forth  in  all  its 
maddened  fury.  At  first  the  cities  Louvain,  Brussels, 
Antwerp,  and  He  rzogenbusch  unite  1 in  demanding  the 
abolition  of  the  Inquisition.  Their  example  was  imi- 
tated, and  in  February,  1556,  a league  of  the  nobility, 


fully.  After  his  death  he  was  himself  put  under  the 
ban,  and  his  body  was  only  a long  time  after  officially 
absolved  from  this,  one  oi'  the  grossest  sins  a son  of 
Rome  could  possibly  have  permitted,  the  attempt  to 
cleanse  his  Church  from  the  sin  of  unrighteousness.  In 
the  18tli  century  the  Inquisition  was  further  restricted 
in  its  activity  and  privileges  by  Pedro  II  (1706),  and  a 
still  more  decided  step  was  taken  by  Pombal  under  his 
son  and  successor,  Joseph  I.  The  Jesuits  were  expelled 


INQUISITION  605  INSCRIPTIONS 


called  the  Compromise,  was  formed,  which  energetically 
but  humbly  made  the  same  request  (Schrockh,  Kirchen- 
gesch.  iii,  390  sq.).  After  some  delay  this  was  accom- 
plished in  1567.  .Shortly  after,  however,  the  terrible 
Alba  was  dispatched  to  the  Netherlands  with  unlimited 
power.  Margaret  was  forced  to  resign  the  regency,  and 
he  now  proceeded  with  unheard-of  cruelty  against,  those 
who  had  become  suspected,  or  whose  riches  attracted 
him.  Upon  the  16th  of  February,  1568,  by  a sentence 
of  the  holy  office,  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  Netherlands 
were  condemned  to  death  as  heretics.  “ From  this  uni- 
versal doom  only  a few  persons  especially  named  were 
excepted.  A proclamation  of  the  king,  dated  ten  days 
later,  confirmed  this  decree  of  the  Inquisition,  and  or- 
dered it  to  be  carried  into  instant' execution.  . . . Three 
millions  of  people,  men,  women,  and  children,  were  sen- 
tenced to  the  scaffold  in  three  lines”  (Motley,  Rise  of 
the  Dutch  Republic,  ii,  155).  But  even  with  these  meas- 
ures they  failed  in  uprooting  the  Reformation  as  a dan- 
gerous heresy,  and  in  1573,  when  the  provinces  had  al- 
most become  a waste,  and  depopulated  by  the  emigra- 
tion of  hundreds  of  thousands  and  the  execution  of 
thousands  of  its  most  valuable  citizens,  Philip  saw  him- 
self under  the  necessity  of  recalling  the  duke.  The  les- 
son that  had  been  taught  Spain  was,  however,  insuffi- 
cient to  incline  her  to  moderation.  Philip  now,  as 
much  as  ever,  was  determined  to  uproot  heresy  by  force, 
and  these  further  attempts  resulted  finally  in  the  inde- 
pendence of  the  northern  provinces  of  the  Netherlands, 
by  a formidable  union  which  they  formed  at  Utrecht  in 
1579,  and  which  the  peace  of  Westphalia  guaranteed  to 
them.  In  the  southern  provinces  the  Jesuits  continued 
to  rule  for  a time,  but  soon  there  also  the  spirit  of  free- 
dom abrogated  their  power,  and  the  Inquisition,  “all- 
seeing  as  Providence,  inexorable  as  the  grave;  not  in- 
flicting punishment  which  the  sufferer  could  remember, 
but  remorselessly  killing  outright;  not  troubling  itself 
to  ascertain  the  merits  of  a case,  and  giving  the  accused 
the  benefits  of  a doubt,  but  regarding  suspicion  and  cer- 
tainty as  the  same  thing,”  was  driven  from  the  land. 

Countries  outside  of  Europe.  — The  Inquisition  was 
introduced  into  the  transatlantic  countries  also  by  Por- 
tugal, and  especially  by  Spain,  to  which  “the  see  of 
Rome,  in  virtue  of  the  universal  authority  which  it  ar- 
rogated, had  granted  all  the  countries  which  she  might 
discover  beyond  the  Atlantic,”  and  the  Spaniards,  re- 
flecting that  they  had  expelled  the  Jews,  the  hereditary 
and  inveterate  enemies  of  Christianity,  from  their  coasts, 
and  overturned  the  Mohammedan  empire  which  had 
been  established  for  ages  in  the  Peninsula,  began  to  con- 
sider themselves  as  the  favorites  of  Heaven,  destined  to 
propagate  and  defend  the  true  faith,  and  “thus  the 
glory  of  the  Spanish  arms  became  associated  with  the 
extirpation  of  heresy.”  In  the  New  World  the  Inqui- 
sition established  its  power,  especially  in  Mexico.  It 
was  also  terribly  severe  in  Carthagena  and  Lima.  By 
the  Portuguese  it  was  taken  to  East  India,  and  had  its 
chief  seat  at  (ioa.  Under  John  VII  of  Portugal  it  was, 
after  it  had  undergone  several  modifications,  wholly 
abolished  both  in  Brazil  and  East  India. 

Literature . — Nicol  Evmericus,  Directorium  inquisito- 
rum  (Barcelona,  1503;  Rome,  1578,  etc.;  with  commen- 
taries by  Pcgna,  Venice,  1607);  Ursini,  Ilispan.  inqnisi- 
tionis  et  carnificince  secretiora  (Antw.  1611);  Limborch. 
Ilistoriu  Jnquisitionis  (Amst.  1692) ; Plum,  Ur  sprung  u. 
Absichten  d.  I.;  Maurique,  Sammlung  d.  Instructional  d. 
Spanischen  /.  (1630) ; Cramer,  Brief e ii.  die  I.  (Leipzig, 
1784-85,  2 vols.) ; Erzahlungen  v.  d.  Stiftung,  etc.,  der  I.  \ 
(Cologne,  1784) ; Llorente,  Hist,  critique  de  V Inquisition  \ 
rLEspagne  (Par.  1815-17.  4 vols.);  Ant.  Puigblanch.  Die 
entlarrte  /.  (Weimar,  1817) ; Sarpi,  Discorso  dell  Origine 
dell ' Uffizio  dell'  Inquisitione  (1639),  a very  able,  though 
short  sketch  ; Rule,  Hist,  of  Inquisition  (ed.  by  Dr.  Har- 
ris); Griitz,  Cesch.  cf.^rfcn,  viii,  chap,  xii, xiii ; ix,chap.  i 
vii,  viii ; x,  99  sq. ; Leekcy,  Hist,  of  Rationalism  (see  In- 
dex) ; M'Crie,  Hist,  of  the  Reformation  in  Italg ; Hist,  of  ! 
the  Reformation  in  Spain  ; Milinan,  Lat.  Christ,  (see  In-  I 


j dex) ; Ranke,  / list,  of  the  Papacy  (see  Index) ; Schoberl, 

! Persecutions  of  Popery,  i,  102  sq.;  Prescott,  Herd,  awl  Is- 
abella (see  Index);  Philip  //(see  Index);  Motley,  Hist, 

I of  Dutch  Republic  (see  Index);  Chambers,  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; 
Herzog,  lleal-Encyklop.  vi,  677  sq. ; Brockhaus,  Conver- 
sations-Lerikon,  viii,  271  sq. ; Quart.  Rev.  vi,  313  sq. ; x, 
204  sip ; Blackwood's  Mag.  xx,  70  sq. ; A'.  A . Rev.  lxxx, 
504  sq. ; Janus,  Pope  and  the  Council,  p.  235  sq. ; English 
Rev.  xi,  438;  Contemp.Rer.  July,  1869,  p.  455;  Method. 
Quart.  Rev.  April,  1870,  p.  309 ; Hlevrf.  Rev.  1856,  p.  177 ; 
also  British  Critic  of  1827,  and  Museum  of  Foreign  Lit. 
and  Science  (Phila.)  of  the  same  year,  in  which  appeared 
a critical  survey  of  a number  of  works  treating  on  the 
Inquisition ; Rule,  The  Brand  of  Dominic,  or  the  Inquisi- 
tion at  Rome  supreme  and  universal  (Loud.  1852,  12mo); 
(Roman  Catholic),  B.  Vicuna  Mackenna,  Francisco  May- 
en, or  the  Inquisition  as  it  was  in  South  A merica  (Loud. 
1869,  8vo) ; Balmcz,  Catholicism  and  Protestantism  com- 
pu redin  Relation  to  Civilization ,*  Ilerculano,  Da  origem  e 
establecimento  da  inquisigdo  em  Portugal  (Lissabon,  1854- 
1856, 2 vols.) ; Fleurv,  H ist.  Eccles.  v,  266  ct  al.  (J.  II.W.) 

Inquisitor.  See  Inquisition. 

I.  FT.  R.  J.  are  the  initials  for  Jesus  Nazarenus  Rex 
Jud/eorum  (Jesus  of  Nazareth,  King  of  the  Jews),  fre- 
quently met  with  as  inscriptions.  Sec  Cross  of  Christ. 

Insabbatati.  See  Waldensians. 

Insacrati,  the  name  usually  given  in  the  ancient 
canons  to  the  inferior  clergy.  The  superior  clergy  are 
commonly  called  the  itpovgevoi,  holy  or  sacred ; the  oth- 
ers insacrati,  unconsecratcd.  Different  ceremonies  were 
observed  at  their  ordination  : the  higher  orders  were 
set  apart  at  the  altar  by  the  solemn  imposition  of  hands; 
the  others  had  no  imposition  of  hands.  The  superior 
orders  ministered  as  priests,  celebrating  the  sacraments 
and  preaching  in  the  church;  the  inferior  performed 
some  lower  or  ordinary  duties,  and  generally  attended 
upon  the  others  in  their  sacred  services. — Farrar,  Eccles. 
Dictionary.  See  Inferior  Clergy. 

Inscriptions  carved  on  stone  have  in  all  ages  been 
regarded  by  cultivated,  and  sometimes  even  by  rude  na- 
tions, as  the  most  enduring  monuments  of  remarkable 
events.  Thus  the  early  patriarch  Job  woidd  have  his 
dying  profession  of  faith  “ graven  with  iron  in  the  rock 
forever”  (Job  xix,  24).  Moses  inscribed  the  law  upon 
i stones,  and  set  them  up  permanently  in  Mt.  Ebal  (Dent. 

I xxvii,2-8;  Josh,  viii,  30).  .See  Pillar. 

The  oldest  inscriptions  now  known  to  ns  are  the  Chi- 
I nese,  which  profess  to  ascend  to  B.C.  2278.  Those  of 
India  date  only  back  to  IJ.C.  315,  the  age  of  Sandracot- 
tus;  but.  it  has  been  thought  that  the  hieroglyphical  in- 
scriptions of  Central  America  and  of  Mexico  may  prove 
to  be  of  much  older  date  than  those  of  China  even.  The 
Egyptian  inscriptions  arc  generally  acknowledged  to  be 
as  old  as  B.C.  2000;  next  in  order  come  the  Assyrian 
and  Babylonian,  reaching  nearly  as  high  an  antiquity, 
and  then  follow  the  Persian,  and  [Median,  and  Pheeni- 
cian,  all  of  about.  B.C.  700,  while  the  Greek  date  only  to 
B.C.  500  and  600,  and  the  Etruscan  and  Roman  to  no  re- 
moter date  than  the  Indian,  i.  c.  B.C.  400-300.  The 
most  remarkable  of  all  the  known  inscriptions  are  the 
trilingual  inscription  of  Rosetta,  that  of  Shalmauezer 
on  the  obelisk  of  Nimrud,  and  the  cylinder  of  .Sennach- 
erib; the  trilingual  inscription  of  Darius  I on  the  rock 
atBehistun;  the  Greek  inscription  of  the  soldiers  of 
Psammetichus  at  Ipsambonl,  and  of  the  bronze  helmet 
dedicated  by  Hicro  I to  the  Olympian  Jupiter;  the  in- 
scription on  the  coffin  of  the  Cyprian  king  Asmumazer; 
the  Etruscan  inscription  called  the  Eugubinc  Tables; 
that  of  Mummius,  the  conqueror  of  Corinth,  at  Rome, 
and  the  will  of  Augustus  at  Ancyra;  the  inscription  of 
the  Ethiopian  monarch  Silco;  the  old  monument  of  Yu, 
and  the  inscription  of  Se-gan-fu,  recording  the  arrival 
of  Christianity  in  China  (A.D.  631);  the  inscriptions  of 
Chandra-gupta  and  Asoka  in  India. 

I.  Egyptian  Hieroglyphics.  — These  arc  at  once  the 
most  ancient,  the  most  copious,  and  the  most  instruc- 


INSCRIPTIONS 


606 


INSCRIPTIONS 


tive  of  all  relics  of  this  description  extant.  The  Egyp- 
tians used  three  modes  of  writing : (1)  the  Enchorial 
or  Demotic,  the  common  language  of  the  country;  (2) 
the  Hieratic , peculiar  to  the  priests;  and  (3)  the  Hie- 
roglyphic. Hieroglyphics,  again,  are  of  three  kinds: 
(i.)  Phonetic,  when  the  hieroglyphic  stands  for  a letter; 
(ii.)  Emblematic  or  Symbolic,  when  it  is  an  emblem  or 
lyinbol  of  the  thing  represented ; (iii.)  Figuratice,  when 
it  is  a representation  of  the  object  itself.  The  annexed 
engraving  will  give  some  idea  of  the  four  different  kinds 
of  Egyptian  characters;  by  this  it  will  be  seen  that  in 
some  cases  the  derivation  of  the  demotic  character  is  to 
be  traced,  through  its  various  gradations,  from  the  orig- 


inal pure  hieroglyphic,  while  in  others  the  resemblance 
is  utterly  lost.  We  illustrate  this  subject  by  a few 
e'xamples,  pointing  out  the  various  meanings  attached 
to  the  Egyptian  characters  under  different  circum- 
stances. The  names  of  the  gods  were  in  general  ex- 
pressed by  symbols  and  not  by  letters ; “ in  the  same 
manner,  the  Jews  never  wrote  at  full  length  the  ineffa- 
ble name  of  Jehovah,  but  always  expressed  it  by  a short 
mark,  which  they  pronounced  Adonai.”  These  repre- 
sentations were  of  two  kinds  : figuratice,  in  which  the 
name  of  the  deity  is  implied  by  the  form  in  which  he 
was  represented  in  his  statue,  and  symbolic,  in  which  a 
part  of  the  statue,  or  some  object  having  a reference  to 
the  deity,  was  employed,  as  for  instance : 


FIGURATIVE  NAMES  OF  GODS.  SYMBOLIC  NAMES  OF  GODS. 


Many  words  were  also  expressed  by  symbols,  of  which 
the  following  arc  examples : 


Mother.  Son  or  Child.  Temple.  God.  Goddess. 


I)r.  Young  and  Air.  Tattam  have  satisfactorily  shown 
that  all  that  has  come  down  to  us  of  the  language  and 
literature  of  ancient  Egypt  is  contained  in  the  Coptic, 
Sahadic,  or  Upper  Country,  and  the  Basin uri co-Coptic 
dialects,  and  in  the  enchorial,  hieratic,  and  hieroglyph- 
ic inscriptions  and  MSS.;  and  it  is  a point  that  cannot 
be  too  much  insisted  upon,  that  a previous  knowledge 
of  the  Coptic  is  absolutely  necessary  to  a correct  under- 
standing of  the  hieroglyphics.  See  IIiekogi.yimucs. 

These  inscriptions  are  found  abundantly  on  the  vari- 
ous monuments  still  remaining  in  Egypt,  especially  in 
the  tombs  and  palaces  of  the  several  kings.  They  are 
found  either  alone,  as  documentary  records,  e.  g.  on  the 
obelisks  and  columns;  or  oftencr  in  connection  with  pic- 
torial representations  of  public  or  private  scenes;  very 
rarely,  as  in  the  famous  Kosctta  Stone,  with  interlinear 
translations  in  the  corresponding  Egyptian  or  a foreign 
language.  Sec  Egypt. 

II.  Assyrian  Cuneatic — These  characters,  like  the 
Egyptian  hieroglyphics,  are  usually  inscribed  upon  slabs 
containing  likewise  pictorial  delineations  of  martial, 
hunting,  or  other  scenes.  See  Cuxeifoum.  The  most 
noted  places  where  they  occur  are  at  Bchistun,  Khorso- 


bad,  Kouyunjik,  and  Nimrud.  See  each  in  its  order. 
All  the  great  halls  of  the  various  palaces  are  surrounded 
in  the  interior  with  sculptured  slabs  set  into  the  walls, 
and  covered  with  representations  of  the  great  historical 
events  of  the  reigns  of  the  respective  kings,  such  as 
battles,  sieges  of  cities,  the  conquests  of  provinces,  the 
building  of  towns,  and  of  mounds  for  palaces  and  tem- 
ples, processions  of  captives,  caravans  bearing  tribute 
from  subjected  nations,  or  presents  from  vassal  kings,  or 
taxes  from  the  various  districts  of  the  empire,  etc.  Sev- 
eral hundreds  of  these  have  been  removed,  taken  down 
the  Euphrates,  and  shipped  to  England  and  France,  and 
set  up  in  the  British  Museum,  and  that  of  the  Louvre 
at  Baris.  These  slabs  vary  in  size  from  three  to  seven 
feet  in  breadth,  and  from  five  to  eleven  feet  in  height; 
and  a part  even  reach  thirteen  and  fifteen  feet.  >Some 
of  them  have  been  brought  to  our  own  country,  and  pre- 
sented to  Amherst  and  other  colleges.  These  slabs  be- 
come, as  it  wrere,  leaves  in  the  Assyrian  history.  Each 
chamber,  in  fact,  is  a volume;  for  not  only  do  wc  have 
the  sculptures,  but  also  inscriptions  in  a cuneiform  or 
wedge-form  letter,  which  furnishes  a commentary  on 
the  events  represented  by  the  artist.  Great,  progress 
has  already  been  made  in  deciphering  this  language,  as 
we  have  stated  elsewhere,  and  we  have  most  w'ondcrful 
and  interesting  additions  to  our  knowledge  of  ancient 
Nineveh  (q.  v.). 

III.  Phoenician  Records. — These  are  very  fragmenta- 
ry and  widely  scattered.  They  are  in  characters  closely 
resembling  the  old  Hebrew.  Most  of  them  have  been 
diligently  collected  and  expounded  by  Gesenius  in  his 
Afonumenta  Phoenicia  (Lpz.  1837).  See  Phoenicia.  A 
very  interesting  inscription  relating  to  the  history  of 
one  of  the  early  Moabitish  kings  has  lately  been  discov- 
ered. See  M Esir a. 

IV.  Sinaitic  Inscriptions. — Wady  Mokatteb,  the  cliffs 
of  which  bear  these  inscriptions,  is  a valley  entering 
wadv  Sheik,  and  bordering  on  the  upper  regions  of  the 
Sinai  Mountains.  It  extends  for  about  three  hours’ 
march,  and  in  most  places  its  rocks  present  abrupt  cliffs 
twenty  or  thirty  feet  high.  From  these  cliffs  large 
masses  have  separated  and  lie  at  the  bottom  in  the  val- 
ley. The  cliffs  and  rocks  are  thickly  covered  with  in- 
scriptions, which  are  continued,  at  intervals  of  a few 
hundred  paces  only,  for  at  least  the  distance  of  two 
hours  and  a half.  Burckhardt  says  that  to  copy  all  of 
them  would  occupy  a skilful  draughtsman  six  or  eight 
days.  The  inscriptions  are  very  rudely  executed,  some- 
times with  large  letters,  at  others  with  small,  and  sel- 
dom with  straight  lines.  The  characters  appear  to  be 
written  from  right  to  left;  and,  although  not  cut  deep, 
an  instrument  of  metal  must  have  been  required,  as  the 
rock  is  of  considerable  hardness.  Some  of  them  are  on 
rocks  at  a height  of  twelve  or  fifteen  feet,  and  must 
have  required  a ladder  to  ascend  to  them.  The  charac- 
ters were  not  known.  The  superior  of  the  Franciscans, 
who  visited  the  place  in  1722,  observes:  “Although  we 
had  among  us  men  who  understood  the  Arabian,  Greek, 
Hebrew,  Syriac,  Coptic,  Latin,  Armenian,  Turkish,  Eng- 
lish, Illyrian,  German,  and  Bohemian  languages,  there 
was  not  one  of  us  who  had  the  slightest  knowledge  of 
the  characters  engraved  in  these  hard  rocks  with  great 
labor  in  a country  where  there  is  nothing  to  be  had 
either  to  eat  or  drink.  Hence  it  is  probable  that  these 
characters  contained  some  profound  secrets,  which,  long 
before  the  birth  of  Jesus  Christ,  were  sculptured  in  these 
rocks  by  the  Chaklseans  or  some  other  persons.”  This 
account  excited  profound  attention  in  Europe;  and  it 
was  thought  by  many  that  the  inscriptions  might  have 
been  formed  by  the  Israelites  during  their  stay  in  this 
region,  and  probably  contained  irrefragable  evidence  for 
the  truth  of  the  Mosaic  history.  Hence  copies  of  them 
have  been  anxiously  sought  and  secured;  but,  with  the 
exception  of  a few  in  Greek,  the  character  and  language 
were  still  unknown.  “ Before  they  can  be  all  decipher- 
ed,” says  Labnrde,  “ greater  progress  than  has  yet  been 
attained  must  be  made  in  the  paleography  and  ancient 


INSCRIPTIONS 


INSCRIPTIONS 


607 


languages  of  the  East.  The  most  general  opinion  is 
that  they  were  the  work  of  pilgrims  who  visited  Sinai 
about  the  6th  century.”  This  seems  to  us  very  doubt- 
ful. The  Greek  inscriptions  and  the  crosses,  on  which 
this  conclusion  chiefly  rests,  may  indeed  have  been  of 
that  or  a,  ^ter  age;  hut  it  does  not  follow  that  those  in 
the  unknown  characters  necessarily  were  so  too. — Kitto, 
Piet.  Bible , note  on  Job  xix,  24.  Key.  Charles  Forster 
contends  that  they  are  records  of  the  Israelites  on  their 
way  from  Egypt  to  Palestine  (tSinai  Photographed,  Lon- 
don, 1862,  fob).  Better  opportunities  than  had  formerly 
been  at  the  command  of  casual  travellers  were  enjoyed 
by  captain  Palmer,  a member  of  the  expedition  now 
employed  in  making  a complete  and  exhaustive  survey 
of  the  physical  features  and  condition  of  the  .Sinaitic  re- 
gion. II  is  collection  of  transcripts  from  wady  Mokat- 
teb  and  other  localities  exceeds  1500  in  number,  and  he 
was  much  aided  in  the  study  of  their  meaning  by  find- 
ing several  undoubted  bilingual  inscriptions  where  the 
Greek  and  Sinaitic  characters  occur  together,  and  ex- 
press the  same  meaning.  The  result  of  four  months’ 
steady  devotion  to  this  object  has  given  a complete  al- 
phabet of  the  latter,  so  that  captain  Palmer  can  read 
and  interpret  any  of  the  inscriptions  with  ease.  Both 
the  alphabet  and  language  must  have  been  employed 
by  a late  Shemitic  people — “in  all  probability  a com- 
mercial community  who  inhabited,  or  at  least  colonized, 
the  Peninsula  for  the  first  few  centuries  of  the  Christian 
awa.”  That  many  of  the  writers  were  Christians  is 
proved  by  the  numerous  Christian  signs  used  by  them ; 
but  it  is  equally  clear,  from  internal  evidence,  that  a 
large  proportion  of  them  were  pagans.  It  is  interesting 
to  note  that  captain  Palmer’s  researches  were  pursued 
without  the  knowledge  of  professor  Beers’s  studies, 
though  they  mainly  corroborate  each  other,  and  he 
bears  testimony  to  the  professor’s  acuteness  and  pene- 
tration. A writer  in  the  Princeton  Review  (Oct.  1870), 
after  giving  the  history  of  the  discovery  and  decipher- 
ment of  these  inscriptions,  thus  concludes  : “It  seems  to 
be  ascertained  that  the  writers  were  natives  of  Arabia 
Petnea,  inclusive  of  the  Sinaitic  peninsula;  and,  wheth- 
er they  were  subjects  of  the  kingdom  centring  in  Petra  [ 
or  not,  they  made  use  of  the  language  and  the  mode  I 


of  writing  current  there.  They  were  neither  Jews  nor 
Christians,  but  worshippers  of  heathen  deities,  and  par- 
ticularly of  the  heavenly  bodies.  They  were  mostly 
pilgrims  on  their  way  to  certain  celebrated  sanctuaries, 
which  were  for  centuries  resorted  to  at  special  seasons 
by  the  pagans  resident  in  this  region.  The  inscriptions 
in  the  old  native  character  belong  to  the  period  imme- 
diately preceding  and  following  the  Christian  era;  and 
they  come  down  to  the  time  when  the  Gospel  and  the 
Christian  Church  penetrated  these  localities,  supplanted 
heathenism,  and  suppressed  its  sanctuaries.  They  then 
yield  to  legends  in  Greek  and  Latin,  and  even  more  re- 
cent tongues,  the  work  of  Christians,  who,  in  imitation 
of  their  heathen  predecessors,  have  left  the  record  of 
their  pilgrimage  to  hallowed  spots  graven  on  the  same 
imperishable  works.”  lienee  we  find  crosses  and  other 
marks  of  Christianity  mingled  in  the  pagan  names  and 
symbols.  Similar  inscriptions  have  been  found  scatter- 
ed, hut  not  so  profusely,  nor  in  such  confusion,  in  various 
other  portions  of  the  Sinaitic  peninsula,  and  even  in  the 
outskirts  of  Palestine.  (See  the  literature  in  the  Prince- 
ton Rerieir,  ut  sup.)  See  Sinai. 

INSCRIPTIONS,  Christian.  There  are  but  few 
Christian  inscriptions  that  remain  extant  from  an  early 
date,  but  these  few  yet  suffice  to  convey  to  us  a pretty 
accurate  idea  of  the  history  of  the  early  Christian 
Church,  and  of  the  customs  and  belief  of  the  first  fol- 
lowers of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  “ They  express,”  says 
Maitland,  in  his  justly  celebrated  and  now  quite  rare 
work  on  The  Church  in  the  Catacombs  (Lond.  1846, 8vo, 
p.  13),  “the  feelings  of  a body  of  Christians  whose  lead- 
ers alone  are  known  to  us  in  history.  The  fathers  of 
the  Church  live  in  their  voluminous  works ; the  lower 
orders  are  only  represented  by  these  simple  records,  from 
which,  with  scarcely  an  exception,  sorrow  and  complaint 
are  banished;  the  boast  of  suffering,  or  an  appeal  to  the 
revengeful  passions,  is  nowhere  to  be  found.  One  ex- 
presses faith,  another  hope,  a third  charity.  The  gen- 
ius of  primitive  Christianity,  ‘to  believe,  to  love,  and  to 
suffer,’ has  never  been  better  illustrated.  These  ‘ser- 
mons in  stones’  are  addressed  to  the  heart,  and  not  to 
the  head,  to  the  feelings  rather  than  to  the  taste;  and 
possess  additional  value  from  being  the  work  of  the 


Engraved  Rocks  in  Wady  Mokatteb. 


608 


INSCRIPTIONS 


INSCRIPTIONS 

purest  and  most  influential  portion  of  the  ‘catholic  and 
apostolic  Church’  then  in  existence.”  In  the  early  years 
of  the  Christian  Church  the  inscriptions  were,  with  few 
exceptions,  confined  to  the  memory  of  deceased  persons 
and  to  sacred  objects. 

1.  The  custom  of  tomb-stone  inscriptions  was  borrowed 
by  the  early  Christians  from  the  Romans  and  Grecians; 
they  simplified  them,  however,  very  much,  and  indicated 
theChristian  knowledge,  life,  and  rank  of  the  deceased 
partly  by  significant  symbols,  partly  by  written  signs, 
word's,  and  expressions.  These  symbols,  as  they  are 
found  in  Italy,  France,  and  the  countries  on  the  Rhine, 
pertain  partly  to  the  designation  of  the  Redeemer  by 
means  of  pictorial  representations,  partly  to  the  life  after 
death,  hope  for  the  same  through  Christ  and  the  cross. 
The  name  of  Christ,  their  Lord  and  Master,  is,  as  w ould 
be  expected  of  his  followers,  everywhere  the  most  prom- 
inent, and  is  “repeated  in  an  endless  variety  of  forms, 
and  the  actions  of  his  life  are  figured  in  every  degree  of 
rudeness  of  execution.”  But  remarkable  it  certainly  is, 
that  in  the  inscriptions  contained  in  the  Lapidarian  Gal- 
lery, selected  and  arranged  under  papal  superintendence, 
containing  one  of  the  largest,  if  not  the  largest  collec- 
tion of  Christian  inscriptions,  there  are  no  prayers  for 
the  dead  (unless  the  forms  “ May  you  live,”  “May  God 
refresh  you,”  be  so  construed) ; no  addresses  to  the  Vir- 
gin Mary,  nor  to  the  apostles  or  earlier  saints ; and,  with 
the  exception  of  “ eternal  sleep,”  “ eternal  home,”  etc., 
no  expressions  contrary  to  the  plain  sense  of  Scripture. 
Neither  is  the  second  person  of  the  Trinity  viewed  in 
the  Jewish  light  of  a temporal  Messiah,  nor  is  he  de- 
graded to  the  Socinian  estimate  of  a mere  example,  but 
lie  is  ever  represented  as  invested  with  all  the  honors 
of  a Redeemer.  On  this  subject  there  is  no  reserve,  no 
heathenish  suppression  of  the  distinguishing  feature  of 
the  Christian  religion  as  professed  by  the  evangelical 
sects.  On  stones  innumerable  appears  the  good  Shep- 
herd, bearing  on  his  shoulders  the  recovered  sheep,  by 
which  many  an  illiterate  believer  expressed  his  sense 
of  personal  salvation.  One,  according  to  his  epitaph, 
“ sleeps  in  Christ another  is  buried  with  a prayer  that 
“ she  may  live  in  the  Lord  Jesus.”  But  most  of  all,  the 
cross  in  its  simplest  form  is  employed  to  testify  the  faith 
of  the  deceased ; and  whatever  ignorance  may  have  pre- 
vailed regarding  the  letter  of  Holy  "Writ,  or  the  more 
mysterious  doctrines  contained  in  it,  there  seems  to  have 
been  no  want  of  apprehension  of  that  sacrifice  “ where- 
by alone  we  obtain  remission  of  our  sins,  and  are  made 
partakers  of  the  kingdom  of  licrven”  (Maitland,  Church 
in  the  Catacombs , p.  14, 15).  One  of  the  principal  signs 
used  in  referring  to  Christ  is  a monogram  of  the  initial 
letters  of  the  Greek  name  Xnterr 6q.  Most  generally  it 
is  found  to  he  composed  of  X and  p,  the  latter  placed 
in  the  heart  of  the  former.  Strange  to  say,  we  pre- 
serve in  our  own  language  a vestige  of  this  figure  in 
writing  Xmas  and  Xtian,  which  can  only  be  explained 
by  supposing  the  first  letter  to  stand  for  the  Greek  X. 

This  fac-simile  of  a monogram  of 
v \J/  . Christ’s  name  is  copied  from  Mait- 
A land,  ]>.  Bid,  and  was  originally 
> ' taken  from  the  Lapidarian  Gallery. 
The  a and  io  reversed  in  this  epi- 
taph refer  to  the  well-known  pas- 
Rearl:  “Tasaris  [a  saSes  ™ the  Apocalypse:  their 
man’s  nmnel  — in  continued  use  proves  the  general 
the 'las/”6  recePt’on  that  book  as  a part  of 

the  inspired  canon.  The  a and 
w [sec  article  on  Auui.v]  are  men- 
tioned by  Rrudentius  as  well  as  by 
Tertullian,  who  regarded  them  as 
mysteriously  containing  the  signi- 
fication that  in  Christ  rest  the  be- 
ginning and  end  of  all  spiritual  life 
(JJe  monogram,  e.  s.).  From  the  ig- 
norance of  the  sculptor,  the  entire 
symbol  was  sometimes  inverted,  as 
in  the  opposite  figure  (also  from 


Maitland,  p.  167).  A change  was  afterwards 
made  by  the  decussation  (as  it  is  technically 
termed)  of  the  X,  by  which  the  figure  of  a 
cross  was  produced.  Having  once  arrived  at 
this  happy  coincidence,  the  monogram  re- 
mained stationary.  Its  simple  outline,  thus 
chiselled  on  a grave-stone  (from  the  Lapi- 


darian Gallery),  or 
accompanied  by  the 
misplaced  letters. 

or  even  converted  into  “ Psr,”  as  if  for  PsristoG, 
D • M • N 


SOKICIO. 

Read:  “To  onr  great  God— Eliasa  to  Soricius,  in  Christ.” 

was  in  course  of  time  ornamented  with  jewels;  and  the 
monogrumma  gemmation  took  its  place  as  a work  of  art 
among  Christian  bas-reliefs  of  the 
4th  century.  The  best  specimen 
in  the  Lapidarian  Gallery  Mait- 
land asserts  that  he  accurately 
copied,  and  it  is  here  reproduced: 
the  jewels  are  only  in  marble,  but 
they  represent  the  real  gems  often 
lavished  upon  the  ancient  cross. 

It  is  asserted  by  some  antiqua- 
rians that  the  monogram  was  not 
used  until  the  time  of  the  emperor 
Constantine,  and  that,  as  is  gen- 
erally believed,  it  was  first  seen 
by  him  in  the  so  greatly  celebrated  miraculous  vision, 
which  resulted  in  his  conversion  to  the  Christian  relig- 
ion. An  epitaph,  such  as  the  subjoined,  discovered  by 
Bosio,  may  be  well  assigned  to  that  time,  when  the  mot- 
to “In  hoe  vinees”  might  have  become  common: 

IN  HOC  VINCES 


SINFONIA  ET  FILIIS 
V * AN  • XLY11I  M • V • D IIII 

“In  this  thou  shah  conquer— In  Christ.  Sinfonia,  also 
for  her  sons.  She  lived  forty-eight  years,  live  months, 
and  four  days.” 

The  next  is  contained  in  Oderiei : 

IN  VICTE1X 
which  probably  signified, 

“ Victrix  [a  woman’s  name],  victorious  in  Christ.” 

But  the  epitaphs  of  Alexander  and  Marius,  martyrs 
under  Adrian  and  Antonine,  also  exhibit  the  monogram  ; 
“and  though,”  says  Maitland,  “they  do  not  appear  to 
have  been  executed  at  the  time,  they  contain  strong 
marks  of  belonging  to  a period  of  violent  persecution.” 
Gaetano  Marini,  however,  asserts  that  the  earliest  mon- 
ogram belongs  to  the  year  831,  i.  e.  six  years  after  the 
Council  of  Nice. 


A cut  from  a stamp  ot’Boldetti. 
The  P (r)  of  the  monogram  also 
serves  as  a p in  the  words  spcsDci. 
It  is  to  be  read,  “My  hope  is  iu 
God  Christ.” 


The  only  resemblance  to  the  monogram  used  by  the 


INSCRIPTIONS 


C09 


INSCRIPTIONS 


heathen  was  the  ccraunium  or  symbol  of  lightning. 
The  Egyptian  cross  appears  to  be  an  abbreviation  of 
the  Nilomeler. 

SIGNY 

CELIX  • ET  CEREAL1S  • PATE  I • BENEM  ■ 

QV1  • V1X1T  • ANNIS  • LXXXY  • 31  • VIII  • D • V 
DORM  IT  IN  PACEM. 

Translate— “ The  mark  of  Christ.  Celix  and  Cerealis  to 
their  deserving  father,”  etc. 

For  the  assertion  that  the  monogram  was  a symbol 
of  martyrdom,  and  signified  “ for  Christ,”  there  seems  to 
be  not  the  least  authority.  In  many  inscriptions  we 
read,  however,  in  ^ i as 

!N  ^ ASELVS  D. 

‘•’Aselns  sleeps  [or  is  buried]  in  Christ." 

Prudentins  informs  us  that  the  name  of  Christ,  “writ- 
ten in  jewelled  gold,  marked  the  purple  labarum,  and 
sparkled  from  the  helmets’’  of  the  army  of  Constantine ; 
but  this  is,  in  all  probability,  only  a poetical  fiction  (Li- 
ber i,  contra  Symmachwri).  Only  in  the  later  inscrip- 
tions, as  far  down  as  the  Middle  Ages,  as  in  a Cologne 
inscription  (Ccntralm.  100),  are  found  the  words  inilium 
et  Jinis.  The  monogram  with  the  two  letters  is  there 
sometimes  surrounded  by  a circle  or  a wreath.  The 
symbols,  however,  were  used  more  frequently  than  any 
other,  and  of  these  the  fish  which  is  often  found 

in  different  forms  upon  the  same  stone,  was  no  doubt 
suggested  by  the  initials  which  it  contains  of  the  for- 
mula 'lijoovg  Xpiorbc,  6tov  Vwg,  Siori/p  (Jesus  Christ, 
Son  of  God,  the  Saviour),  a sentence  which  had  been 
adopted  from  the  Sibylline  versos.  “ Moreover,  the  pho- 
netic sign  of  this  word,  the  actual  fish,  was  an  emblem 
whose  meaning  was  entirely  concealed  from  the  uniniti- 
ated— an  important  point  with  those  who  were  sur- 
rounded by  foes  ready  to  ridicule  and  blaspheme  what- 
ever of  Christianity  they  coidd  detect.  Nor  did  the  ap- 
propriateness of  the  symbol  stop  here.  * The  first,’  ob- 
served TertuUian,  ‘ seems  a fit  emblem  of  him  whose 
spiritual  children  are,  like  the  offspring  of  fishes,  born  in 
the  water  of  baptism.’”  Sometimes  the  word  i\JvQ 
was  expressed  at  length,  as  in  the  two  following  (Lap- 
idarian  Gallery) : 

IKOYC 

BONO  ET  INOCENTI  FILIO 
PASTOEI  ■ QV  ■ X ■ A • N • IIII 
NN1S  • X 

ixevc 

The  first  contains  the  mistake  of  k for  x • At  other 
times  the  fish  itself  was  figured,  as  recommended  by  Cle- 
ment of  Alexandria  (Pa1  da  (jog.  iii,  10G),  wbo,  besides  the 
fish,  proposed  as  Christian  emblems  for  signets  fisher- 
men, anchors,  ships,  doves,  and  lyres. 


This  specimen  Maitland  also  copied  from  the  Lapidarian 
Gallery. 


In  a metrical  Grecian  inscription  at  Antrim,  Christ 
himself,  at  the  supper,  is  called  ix$vg.  Usually,  how- 
ever, it  is  the  fisherman,  who  is  Christ  himself;  he  who 
also  called  the  apostles  to  become  the  fishers  of  men 
(Matt,  iv,  19 ; Mark  i,  17).  Clement  observes  that  it  re- 
fers to  the  apostle  Peter,  and  the  boys  who  were  drawn 
out  of  the  water  (of  baptism).  To  these  the  anchor  is 
added,  which,  as  early  as  the  letter  to  the  Hebrews  (vi, 
19),  is  made  the  symbol  of  hope  resting  in  the  centre  of 
holiness  (comp.  Mai,  Inscrip.  Chr.  p.  375,  4;  415,  9 ; 424, 
7 ; 430, 10 ; 449, 4 ; 460, 6).  Less  frequently  we  find  the 
IV. — Q Q 


sailing  ship,  e.  g.upon  an  inscription  of  Firmia  Victoria, 
in  the  porch  of  Maria  in  Trastcvere,  in  Rome,  and  (Mai, 
Inscrip.  Chr.  p.  430,  (!)  upon  the  tomb-stone  of  a certain 
virgin  named  Serenila.  The  same  is  also  found  in  the 
Vatican.  Clement  calls  it  vavg  obpai'oSpopovoa,  “ the 
ship  hastening  heavenwards.”  The  lyre , as  far  as  we 
know,  does  not  occur  on  tomb-stones.  The  lyre  is  per- 
haps an  ideal  picture  of  the  harmony  which  reigns  in 
the  Christian  soul,  or  is  used  instead  of  Orpheus,  by 
whom  also  Christ  was  represented.  The  dove,  also  spe- 
cified by  Clement,  and  the  olive-branch,  are  more  numer- 
ous, as  the  signs  of  love  and  peace.  The  word  peace  is 
added  to  this  fac-simile  from  the  Lapidarian  Gallery. 


The  olive-branch  which  it  bears  is  borrowed  from  the 
history  of  Noah  : it  was  sometimes  carried  in  the  claws 
of  the  bird,  as  in  the  copy  below  given,  which  is  taken 
from  the  Vatican  library. 


IENVAEIE  B1RGIX1 
BENEM EEENTI  IN 
PACE  BOTIS  DEPOSITA 


“To  Jennaria.  a virgin,  well -deserving.  Buried  in 
peace,  with  vows.” 

The  substitution  of  botis  and  birrjini  for  rods  and  vir- 
gini : the  b and  v are  sometimes  as  absurdly  reversed. 

BIB  • BEOVENE  \\y  “To  Bibbens,  the 
MERENTI  yK  well-deserving." 


DECEMBER  S EV1VO  FECIT  SIBI 
BISOMVM. 


“In  Christ.  Decem- 
ber, while  living,  made 
himself  a Bisomum.” 


Clement,  among  other  things,  forbids  Christians  to 
carry  pitchers  and  swords  upon  their  rings.  The  pitch - 
er,  with  or  without  handle,  does  occur,  however,  fre- 
! quently  in  Rome,  Trier,  and  elsewhere,  on  Christian 
graves,  usually  between  two  doves.  Whether  this  sym- 
bol refers  to  the  doves  drinking  from  a bowl,  or  whether 
it  points  to  the  water  of  life  which  is  to  refresh  the 
thirsty  soul,  is  not  known.  Instead  of  the  sword,  the 
axe  occurs  a few  times  on  Christian  tomb-stones:  thus 
in  Rome,  at  the  church  Nereo  ed  Acliille,  in  the  Palazzo 
Guilelmi,  several  times  at  Aringhi,  etc.  They  are  most 
probably  a concealed  representation  of  the  cross,  whose 
form  they  somewhat  resemble.  The  Christians  could 
use  this  symbol  more  readily,  because  it  was  also  used 
by  the  heathens  as  dedicatio  sub  ascia.  In  addition  to 
these,  we  find  the  serert-armed  candlestick,  which  occurs 
in  the  cloister  of  St.  Paola  at  Rome  and  elsewhere  upon 
Jewish  tomb-stones,  but  also  upon  Christian  basilisks  of 
Rome;  not  so  frequently  on  graves,  e.  g.  Mai, Inscript. 
Chr.  p.  408,  4.  The  lamb  occurs  seldom,  e.  g.  Mai,  In- 
script. Chr.  p.  401,  3 ; the  same,  between  two  doves,  p. 


INSCRIPTIONS 


610 


INSCRIPTIONS 


3G3,  5.  The  balance  occurs  ' requiescit  in  pace ; in  the  Greek,  ivZrctCe  Ktirai  or  tcara- 
twieeat  Aringhi ; and  upon  Ktirai  tv  tipyvy ; the  latter  also  occurs  on  the  Jewish 
private  sarcophagi,  re pre-  inscriptions  of  St.  Paola.  Instead  of  this  stands  also  hie 
sentations  of  the  good  shep-  pausat  in  pace,  dvhravfftv  iv  tipijvy,  hie  posit  a est,hic 
herd,  Old  and  New  Testa-  sepnltus  jacef,  requiescit  in  somno pads,  dormit  in  pace,  fo- 
ment histories,  etc.  Besides  cus,  nardStoig  EM  IIAZE  (?  in  pace  Gnecized),  tv  fiptj- 
these,  there  are  also  occa-  vy  Koipyaic,  tottqq  avaTTavotwQ,  etc. ; or  simply  the 
sionally  met  with  the  anchor,  name  of  the  deceased  in  the  nominative  or  dative,  with 
“ understood  to  signify  the  and  without  in  pace,  tv  tipi/vy” 

close  of  a well-spent  life : the  Quite  remarkable,  however,  is  the  distinguishing  feat- 
> conclusion  of  a successful  ore  of  Christian  inscriptions  of  the  early  centuries,  and 
vovage  when  the  anchor  is  cast.  This  supposition  is  perhaps  one  in  which  more  than  in  any  other  it  differs 
strengthened  by  the  from  pagan  inscriptions,  viz.  in  its  use  of  names.  “ While 
fact  that  the  Church  ” ’ v 1 


was  often  represent- 
ed by  a ship  sail- 
ing heavenward : i) 
vai’Q  oiipavolpo- 
povaa  of  Clement : 
in  later  times  steer- 
ed by  Sts.  Peter  and 


the  heathen  name  consisted  of  several  essential  parts, 
all  of  which  were  necessary  to  distinguish  its  owner,  the 
Christians  in  general  confined  themselves  to  that  which 
they  had  received  in  baptism.”  But  as  some  of  the  con- 
verts came  from  Roman  families,  it  was  quite  natural 
for  them  to  retain  their  Gentile  and  other  names,  yea, 
genuine  heathen  names,  and  thus  even  the  names  of 
heathen  gods  occur,  e.  g.  Azizos,  the  name  of  a Syriac 
Paul.”  This  svm-  goddess,  we  find  in  Trier  (Centralmus,  iii,  53)  given  as 
bol  may  help  to  ex-  the  name  of  a Syriac  Christian.  Also  Artemia,  Marti- 
plain  the  expression  nus,  Mcrcurilis,  Jovinus,  Venerosa,  Yenerigina,  Saturni- 
used  bv  Peter,  “So  shall  an  entrance  be  ministered  unto  nus,  names  united  with  Sabbatia,  Sabbatius,  Nundinas, 
vou  abundantly,”  generally  referred  to  the  prosperous  and  Dominica,  taken  in  a great  measure  from  the  names 
entrance  of  a vessel  into  port.  “ The  ignorance  displayed  of  the  days  of  the  week.  But  the  desire  to  simplify 
bv  the  sculptor  is  scarcely  to  be  accounted  for,  except-  names,  and  to  give  them  an  ethical  signification,  is  none 
ing  by  the  circumstance  that  the  traffic  on  the  Tiber  the  less  noticeable  even  among  the  Roman  converts ; for 
was  confined  to  barges,  unprovided  with  masts  and  sails,  while  it  was  at  that  time  nothing  unusual  in  the  hea- 
and  towed  by  horses.  The  peacock  is  said  to  have  then  world  for  a person  to  have  six,  eight,  or  ten  names, 
been  used  as  an  emblem  of  immortality.  This  idea  was  in  Christian  inscriptions  (the  name  given  at  the  time 
borrowed  from  the  pagans,  who  employed  it  to  signify  of  baptism  being  always  preferred)  but  one  or  two  names 
the  apotheosis  of  an  empress : for  this  purpose  it  was  let  generally  occur.  The.  name  was,  as  a rule,  taken  in  view 
fly  from  the  funeral  pile  on  which  her  body  was  con-  of  facts  universally  believed  to  be  good  or  desirable,  e.  g. 
sumed.  The  phoenix  was  also  adopted  by  the  Chris-  with  regard  to  life:  Vitalis, Yitalio, Vitalinus, Yitalissi- 
tians  with  the  same  intention;  so,  also,  the  crowned  mus,  Yiventius,  Zoe,  etc.;  in  view  of  fortune:  Felicio, 
horse,  as  a sign  of  victory.”  The  supposed  emblems  of  Fortunio,  Fortnnula,  Felieissima,  Faustina.  Prosper,  Suc- 
martyrdom,  such  as  a figure  praying,  a crown,  or  a palm  cessus,  Entvehes,  etc. ; of  joy : Gandentius,  Gaudiosus, 
branch,  which  generally  belong  to  this  class,  are  bor-  Hilario,  Hilarianns,  Jncnnda,  Edone;  of  victory:  Victor, 
rowed  from  paganism,  with  additional  significance  in  Vineentius,  Nike,  Pancratir;  of  strength:  Yirissimus, 
Christian  cases,  especially  on  account  of  the  mention  of  Fortissima,  Alcimns,  Dynamiola;  of faith:  Tlieophistns, 
it  in  the.  book  of  Revelation.  “On  the  strength  of  some  Fidelis ; of  hopte:  Spes,  Ilelpis,  Elpidia ; of  love:  Phile- 
expressions  there  used,  antiquarians  of  later  times  have  tus,  Philnmena,  Agape.  Agapet ns,  Caritosa;  of  spiritual 
taken  it  for  granted  that  the  early  Church  employed  blessing:  Dorotheas,  Theodoras,  Tlieodota,  Theodulus, 
both  crown  and  palm,  or  either  separately,  as  emblems  Timothea,  Theopliila,  and  various  others.  The  king- 
of  martyrdom.”  This  supposition,  though  apparently  dom  of  nature  has  also  its  part  in  Christian  names,  e.  g. 
reasonable,  has  been  abandoned  from  want  of  proof ; and  months:  Jannarius,  Februarius,  Aprilis,  Decembrina; 
such  a fragment  as  the  following,  found  in  the  cemetery  animals,  plants,  employments  of  rural  life,  etc.  Of  Old- 
ofSt.  Priscilla  (Lapidarian  Gallery),  is  now  only  supposed  Testament  names  few  are  found,  e.  g.  Susanna,  Daninil, 

and  Daniel;  of  New-Testament  names,  Maria,  Petrus. 
Paulus.  The  consideration  of  national  names  is  foreign 


to  belong  to  the  epitaph  of  an  ordinary  Christian ; 
NA  Y1BAS 


ESY 


to  our  purpose.  After  the  name  of  the  deceased  there 
Translate,  “ . . . . nn,  may  *s  frequently  appended  a short  statement  of  his  Chris- 
you  live  in  the  Lord  Jesus.”  tian  position,  views,  or  habits  which  distinguished  him 
in  civil  life,  lie  is  called  a neophyte  (once  in  albis),  a 
believer  (Jklelis ),  i.  e.  one  who  is  really  accepted : mar- 
tyr, diaeon,  exorcista,  subdiacon,  etc. ; child,  virgin, 
man,  wife;  anima  dulcis,  miroe  innoeenti*  anitua  or  ex- 


Thc  crown  and  palm  conjoined  are  also  met  with  : in  the 
present  example,  from  the  Vatican  lib 
the  monogram,  as  represented  below: 


..  . in  . ,T  . .1,  , , ■ i iijciu,  . iiimiia  uuiu?i  IJJIL.I  iiiiiutuiikc  annua  ui  l .v — 

present  example,  from  the  A aticau  library,  they  encircle  , , , . . .. 

I,,,  , w 1 ..I.  > J emplum,  dulcis  aptissimus  infans  et  visugrata  et  verbis 

the  monogram,  as  renresented  below:  , . . ’ }.  b , . . . 

dulcissima  ennctis,  films  innocentissimus,  dulcissimus, 
bonus,  sapiens,  omnibus  honorificentissimus  et  laoneus, 
deo  fidelis  et  dulcis  marito,  nutrix  familiie,  cimctis  hu- 
milis,  placata  puro  corde,  amatrix  pauperum,  abstinens 
se  ab  onmi  maligna  re,  etc. ; the  most  common  form  is 
bene  merens.  Then  follows  the  age,  with  a qui  vixit  or 
in  sneculo,  i^yatv,  uijaag,  cither  with  an  accurate  ac- 
count of  the  years,  months,  and  days,  or  merely  about 


FL  • IOVIXA  • QVAE  . YIN 
ANN1S  • TR1BYS  • I)  • XXX 

N EOF  IT  A • IN  PACE  • XI  • K . .. 

■'  PI  avia  Jovlna— who  lived  three  years  and  thirty  days  tlie  time,  with  the  additional  statement  plus  minus,  wAt- 


—a  neophyte  — in  peace— (She  died)  the  eleventh  Ka- 
lends . ...  " 


ov  iXarrov.  Then  the  day  of  burial,  with  a depositus 
or  deposito,  not  seldom  the  fasti  for  the  year;  sometimes, 
1 he  extreme  youth  of  the  neophyte,  while  it  proves  also,  the  announcement  of  the  person  who  erected  the 
the  custom  of  infant  baptism,  makes  the  martyrdom  of  stone  (titulum  posuit  or  posuernnt),  and  of  his  suffering 
Jovina  improbable.  “ The  notice  of  death  is  various  in  (dolens,  contra  votum,  etc.).  Of  course  this  arrange- 
thc  heathen  inscriptions.  Occasionally  occurs  D.M.  (dis  ment  is  not  always  followed.  Sometimes  we  find  fol- 
manibus) ; instead  of  that,  also  B.  M.,  i.  e.  bona-  memo-  lowing  the  name  a motto,  such  as  Zyayg  .vivas  inChris- 
rue.  1 he  beginning  formula  usually  is  hie  quiescit,  or  to,  in  deo  vivas,  vivas  in  domino,  spes  pax  tibi,  accepta 


INSECT 


sis  in  Christo.  The  language  is  largely  corrupted,  the 
Latin  degenerating  into  the  Roman,  but  for  this  reason 
is  very  important  in  grammar.  Occasionally  we  find 
Latin  words  written  in  Creek  letters,  or  mixed  inscrip- 
tions in  both  languages.  When  written  in  poetry,  the 
hexameter  or  distich  measure  is  commonly  used,  and 
yet  they  are  rhythmical  rather  than  metrical.  In  such 
rhythmical  inscriptions  we  find  extension  of  thought 
not  in  the  foregoing.  The  material  upon  which  the  in- 
scriptions were  made  consists  of  small,  plain  marble 
slabs,  either  laid  upon  the  grave  or  put  into  the  coffin. 
Sometimes,  to  designate  the  death  of  martyrs,  there  oc- 
cur vessels  of  blood  and  the  instruments  of  death;  also 
glasses,  etc. 

2.  Besides  the  inscriptions  on  graves,  which  Rettberg 
first  made  useful  to  Church  history,  there  are  also  sa- 
cred inscriptions,  which  we  find  partly  upon  glass,  part- 
ly upon  coins,  gems,  lamps,  amulets,  crosses,  dishes,  and 
other  works  of  art.  The  more  ancient  Christian  inscrip- 
tions have  not  yet  been  sufficiently  sought  for.  In  the 
collections  of  Fabretti,  Reinesius,  Grnter,  Muratori,  Do- 
nati,  Castclli,  Spun,  Osann,  Orelli,  etc.,  they  are  badly  in- 
jured. For  descriptions  of  them,  consult  Franz,  who 
speaks  of  the  following : Bosio.  Roma  sotterranea  (Rome, 
1G51);  P.  Aringhi,  Roma  subterranea  novissi/na  (Rome, 
1G57 ; Paris,  1659),  vols.  i and  ii ; Boldetti,  Osservazioni 
sopra  i cimiteri  do'  sand  martiri  ed  antichi  chrisdani 
(Rome,  1720) ; Banduri,  Xumismata  impp.  Rom.  a Trai- 
ano  Decio  ad  paleeologos  Augitstos  (Paris,  1718),  vols.  i, 
ii ; Eckhel,  Doetr,  Xumnu  vol.  viii ; Bellori,  Luce  nice  vo- 
te res  (Col.  1702)  ; Ficoroni,  Gemma?  ant.  lift.  Rome  ; Bu- 
onaruoti,  Osserrazioni  sopra  alcuni  rasi  anttcln  di  vetro 
(Firenz.  1716) ; Keronx  d’Agincourt,  llistoire  de  Vartpar 
les  monuments,  etc.  (Paris,  1823),  vols.  i-iv;  Krebs,  Lip- 
sanotheca  Weilburgcnsis  (1820);  Memoir es  de  VInsdtut 
Royal  de  France  (1837,  1838),  vol.  iii.  The  following 
are  not  mentioned  by  Franz;  the  treatise  of  Pcllicia,  l)e 
re  lapidaria  et  siglis  vet.  Christian.,  in  his  Christiana 3 
ecclesice  politia  (ed.  Braun,  Coloniie,  1838),  iii,  1 1 1-297 ; 
Kopp,  Palaogr.  CV*7/c(Maunhemii,  1829),  vols.  iii  and  iv; 
Mai,  or  rather  Marini,  Inscriptiones  Christiana ’,  in  Mai, 
Script. veterum  nor  a collect  io  (Rome,  1831),  vol.  v,  a work 
that  leaves  untreated  much  to  be  wished  for.  Earlier 
undertakings  are  spoken  of  by  Mai  in  his  introduction, 
p.  viii  to  xv.  For  the  inscriptions  at  Naples,  consult  the 
works  concerning  the  Catacombs  there  found ; for  those 
at  Milan, Givo,  Labus  inform  alcuni  momtmend  epigraf- 
ci  chrisdani  scoperti  in  Milano  Vanno  MDCCCXIII  noil' 
insigne  basilica  di  sant'  A nibrogio  (Milan,  1824,  fol.) ; and 
the  same,  Inform  alcuni  monumend  epigrujici  gendle- 
schi  e chnstiani  scoperti  noil'  insigne  basilica  di  S.  Sim- 
pliciano  (in  the  Giornale  dell' J.  R.  Insdtuto  Lombardo 
di  Science,  Lettere  ed  .4  rti,  vol.  iii,  Milan,  1842) ; for  those 
at  Verona,  Maffei’s  Museum  Veronense  (Verona?,  1749),  p. 
178-184.  For  those  at  Autun,  comp.  Franz,  Das  christ- 
liche  Denknial  (Bcrl.  1841, 8vo),  in  German  and  French. 
For  Treves,  see  the  works  of  Lersch,  especially  his  Cen- 
tral Museum  Rheinlawlischer  Inschriflen  (Bonn,  1842), 
iii,  29-48;  Steiner,  Cod.  inscrip.-Rhen,  No.  829  849 ; Wyt- 
tcnbach,  Xeue  Beitrage  z.  antiken,  heidnisch.  u.  christl. 
Kpigraphik  (Treves,  1833);  and  others.  For  later  epi- 
graphs of  the  Middle  Ages,  see  Otte,  Abriss  e.  kirchl. 
Kunst-Archaeol.  d.  Mittelulters  (Xordhausen,  1845),  p. 
71-92;  Men  tie,  in  Didron,  .1  nnales  .1  rcheologiqu.es,  i,  10G. 
For  inscriptions  still  later,  see  Galletti,  Inscriptiones  Ro- 
mano: in  find  mvi  (Rome,  17G0),  vols.  i-iii;  Morcelli,  Op. 
Epigraph.  (Patavii,  1823),  vols.  iv  and  v;  Htipsch,  Epi- 
grammat.ographie  (Cologne,  1801),  vol.  ii.  See  Aschbach. 
Kirchen-Lex.  iii,  484  sq. ; Martignv,  Diet,  des  .4  ntiquites, 
p.315  sq. ; and  especially  Maitland,  Church  in  the  Cata- 
combs (London,  184G.  8vo),  from  which  we  have  freely 
quoted.  (J.  H.  W.)  ' 

Insect.  The  following  is  a complete  list  of  all  the 
specimens  of  entomology  mentioned  in  the  canonical 
Scriptures  (including  their  products),  together  with 
their  names  in  the  original  and  in  the  A.  V,  See  Zo- 
ology. 


1 INSPIRATION 


Akkabish', 

“ spider,” 

spider. 

A krdb', 

“ scorpion,” 

scorpion. 

A kris. 

“ locust,” 

locust. 

ArbeW. 

“locust,” 

locust. 

A rob', 

“ swarms,” 

gad-fly. 

Ash, 

“ moth,” 

moth. 

Chagdb,' 

“grasshopper,” 

locust. 

ChunamAV , 

“frost,” 

ant?  (destructive). 

Chargbl', 

“beetle,” 

locust  (edible). 

Chas'd', 

“locust," 

loenst. 

Deborceh', 

“bee,” 

bee. 

Gazchn', 

“ palmer-worm,” 

locust  (grub). 

Gib, 

“locust,” 

loenst. 

Gib, 

“grasshopper,” 

loenst. 

Ken, 

“lice,” 

gnat. 

Kokhs'  s, 

“scarlet,” 

kermes  (worm). 

Kt'.nfps, 

“gnat,” 

fly  (in  wine). 

Me’ she, 

“silk,” 

flue  thread. 

XcmalAh’, 

“ant,” 

ant. 

Pa  rush1, 

“flea,” 

flea. 

SAs, 

“moth,” 

moth. 

S.rlkdn, 

“silk,” 

silk. 

SS, 

“ moth,” 

moth. 

SkS>rp)cs, 

“scorpion,” 

scorpion. 

Solum’, 

“bald  locust,” 

locust  (edible). 

T salt  sal’. 

“locust,” 

cricket. 

Tsir&h 

“hornet,” 

hornet. 

Ye’tek, 

/“canker-worm,” 

(“caterpillar,” 

>■  locust  (hairy). 

Zcbub', 

“Uy,” 

fly- 

Insermentes  or  Refractaires,  a title  of  those 
of  the  French  Roman  Catholic  clergy  who  were  disloyal 
to  the  Revolution.  August  10, 1789,  the  National  As- 
sembly proposed  to  appropriate  the  property  of  the 
Church,  which  then  covered  about  one  fifth  of  the  sur- 
face of  France,  yielding  an  annual  revenue  of  three  hun- 
dred million  francs,  and  by  an  act  of  Feb.  13, 1790,  this 
became  a law.  Tints  the  great  body  of  the  clergy,  who, 
patriotic  in  their  aspirations,  and  suffering  front  the 
abuses  of  power,  had  hailed  the  advent  of  the  Revolu- 
tion with  joy,  now  finding  their  dearest  interests  and 
privileges  assailed,  were  forced  into  the  position  of  re- 
actionaries, and  soon  became  the  objects  of  suspicion 
and  of  persecution.  To  determine  those  who  opposed 
the  Revolution,  the  progressives  devised  a test-oath  ob- 
ligatory on  all  ecclesiastics,  and  lists  were  kept  to  dis- 
tinguish between  loyalists  and  disloyalists.  “ Harmless 
as  the  oath  was  in  appearance  when  it  was  tendered  in 
Dec.  1790,  five  sixths  of  the  clergy  throughout  the  king- 
dom refused  it.  Those  who  yielded  to  the  pressure 
were  termed  assermentes,  the  recusants  insermentes  or 
refractaires,  and  the  latter,  of  course,  at  once  became 
the  determined  opponents  of  the  new  regime,  the  more 
dangerous  because  they  were  the  only  infiuential  parti- 
sans of  reaction  belonging  to  the  people.  To  their  ef- 
forts were  attributed  the  insurrections  which  in  La  Ven- 
dee and  elsewhere  threatened  the  most  fearful  dangers. 
They  were  accordingly  exposed  to  severe  legislation. 
A decree  of  Nov.  29,  1791,  deprived  them  of  their  sti- 
pends and  suspended  their  functions;  another  of  May 
27, 1792,  authorized  the  local  authorities  to  exile  them 
on  the  simple  denunciation  of  twenty  citizens.  Under 
the  Reign  of  Terror  their  persons  were  exposed  to  fla- 
grant cruelties,  and  a prure  refractaire  was  generally  re- 
garded, ipso  facto,  as  an  enemy  of  the  Republic.” — Lea, 
Hist,  of  Sacerdotalism,  p.  547  sq. : Pressense,  Reign  of 
Terror  (transl.  by  Trof.  Lacroix),  p.  GO  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Insignia  of  Clergy.  See  Vestments. 

Inspiration  (Lat.  a breathing  into),  a term  em- 
ployed to  designate  the  divine  origin  of  IIolv  fccripture 
(q.  v.). 

I .Definition. — 1.  The  word  “inspiration”  “is  some- 
times used  to  denote  the  excitement  and  action  of  a fer- 
vent imagination  in  the  poet  or  orator.  But  even  in 
this  case  there  is  generally'  a reference  to  some  supposed 
divine  influence,  to  which  the  excited  action  is  owing. 
It  is  once  used  in  Scripture  to  denote  that  divine  agen- 
cy by  which  man  is  endued  with  the  faculties  of  an  in- 
telligent being, when  it  is  said  ‘the  inspiration  (<VCTL:2, 
breath,  as  in  Gen.  ii,  7)  of  the  Almighty  givetli  him  un- 
derstanding (Job  xxxii,  8).  But  the  inspiration  now  to 
be  considered  is  that  which  belonged  to  those  who  wrote 
the  Scriptures,  and  which  is  particularly  spoken  of  in  2 


INSPIRATION 


INSPIRATION  G 

Tim.  iii,  16,  and  in  2 Pet.  i,  21 : ‘All  Scripture  is  given 
bv  inspiration  of  God * Holy  men  of  God  spake  as  tliev 
were  moved  bv  the  Holy  Ghost.’  These  passages  re- 
late specially  to  the  Old  Testament,  but  there  is  at  least, 
equal  reason  to  predicate  divine  inspiration  of  the  New 
Testament.” 

2.  The  Greek  expression  Srtoirvtvorog  (2  Tim.  iii,  16) 
signifies  a divine  action  on  the  perceptions  (“Nemo  vir 
magnus  sine  aliquo  afllatu  divino  unquam  fuit,”  Cicero, 
pro  A rehitt,  e.  8).  The  breath  of  God  is  used  as  a ma- 
terial expression  for  his  power  (as  in  Suva/ag  inpiarov 
for  ffj'a'/ot  liytov,  Luke  i,35;  xxiv,49).  In  this  sense, 
also,  the  classics  speak  of  a xtoTrutvorog  rrorpii]  (Phocvl- 
ides,  121),  StuTri’turTTot  bvtipoi  (Plutarch,  De  jilac.  phi- 
hit.  v,  2;  comp,  vrrb  mavparog  dyiov  ty'ipopevoi  iXdXt- 
aav  uyioi  5iou  dv^pioiroi,  2 Pet.  i,  21).  The  neutral 
form,  in  the  sense  of"  God-inspired,”  is  used  by  Nonnus 
(Puntphr.  er.  Jo.  i,  27),  and  applied  to  Scripture  by  Ori- 
gin (Horn.  21,  in  Jerem.  vol.  ii,  de  la  Rue  : “ Sacra  volu- 
inina  spiritus  plenitndinem  spirant”). 

o.  A psychological  definition  of  the  relation  of  this  di- 
vine, consequently  passively  received  perception  to  hu- 
man spontaneity,  is  given  by  Plato  in  his  doctrine  of 
the  divine  pavia,  the  tvStog  tivai.  This  position  is 
the  root  of  the  divinely  implanted  tendency  to  knowl- 
edge which  has  not  yet  attained  a clear  consciousness 
(Zeller,  Griech.  Phil,  ii,  166,  275;  Brandis,  ii,  428).  Of 
this,  in  so  far  as  it  includes  the  idea  in  the  form  of  beau- 
ty, artists  and  authors  say : ov  rfymj  raura  rd  kuXii 
Xlyovm  irotqpara,  d\\’  i'vSsoi  dvrtg  icai  Karexdptvoi 
(Ion.  533).  Ou  ydp  Tf\v>)  raura  Xtyoumv,  aXXa  Sttq 
vvvdpti  ( ib . p.  534).  This  gives  rise  to  the  pavruci], 
which  requires  the  7rpo<pi)rr]g  for  its  interpreter  (Timie- 
tis,  72).  This  doctrine  of  Plato  concerning  inspiration 
has  had  great  influence  on  the  Jewish  and  Christian 
doctrine.  Philo  admits  it,  and  derives  from  it  the  in- 
compatibility of  divine  and  human  knowledge  (Quis  re- 
rum il.  h.  i,  51 1,  Mang.)  ; on  pin  (f>utg  tTriXdppei  ro  $ti- 
ov,i  vtrai  to  avSt^^invov  ’ ore  0 iKtiro  Cutt,  tout  ctni- 
o\h  icai  dvariXXei.  Yet  he  does  not  limit  the  divine  in- 
fluence to  the  inspiration  of  the  sacred  books,  and  does 
not  hesitate  to  ascribe  to  himself  an  occasional  SeoXip 
nrtirjjui  (De  Cherubim,  i,  143).  Some  of  the  Greek  fa- 
thers also  describe  the  state  of  inspiration  as  purely  pas- 
sive (Justin,  Cohort,  c.  8:  Oure  ydo  (puoti  ovte  dt'.rpw- 
Trivtj  ivvoiif.  ovno  fieydX a icai  Sreia  yivwoKuv  avSptb- 
rroig  duvardv,  dXXd  ry  dvioStv  iwi  rovg  dyiovg  dv- 
epag  rijvucavra  KariXSoviry  diopip,  oig  ov  Xoyiov  iSe- 
i)Ot  «'XXd  icaSapovg  iavrovg  ry  rou  Stiov  i rvel<- 

parog  7T upaax^v  ivtoytip,  iV  avrb  rb  $e~iov  ovpa- 
rou  Kunbv  irXijKrpop,  uxnrtp  opydvip,  iciSdpag  nvbg  rj 
Xupag  roig  ciKaioig  avCpaoi  xpwperov,  n)v  rain  Stiiop 
i)piv  uTTOKaXvtpy  yvUnrig.  Athenag.  Legal.  c.  9:  No- 
pipU)  updg  ouk  droqrovg  yeyovivai  ovre  rou  Mwimlwg 
oure  rou  Uaaiou  nai  rdu  Xoiirwv  Trpo^tjrwv,  o'i  tear 
iKoramv  ruin  tv  abrolg  Xoyiopdv  Kivyaavrog  aurovg 
rou  Seiou  xvtvparog,  d bnjxouvro  iZttpibvyoav,  truy- 
XPnoapevov  rou  rrvtvparog,  ibati  icai  avXi]n)g  auXov 
epirvimai).  We  therefore  find  at  an  early  time  the 
notion  of  a literal  inspiration  (Iren,  iii,  16,  2 : “ Potuerat 
dicere  Mattlueus:  Jcsu  gcueratio  sic  erat.  Sed  pra?- 
videns  Spiritus  S.  depravatores  et  pnemuniens  contra 
fraudulcntiam  eorum,  per  Matthamm  ait:  Christi  gen- 
eratio  sic  crat.”  Clemens,  Cohort.  i,71,  ed.  Pott. : *1£$ 
ypappuriov  [he  means  the  iepd  ypdppara,  2 Tim.  iii, 
1 lj  Kui  auXXudibv  rwn  ifpuin  rag  auyKtiptvag  ypatpug 
o aurog  dnoXov-Siog  'AttootoXos1  Stoxvevarovg  naXtl. 

( trigen,  llom.  xxi  in  .Ter.:  l* Secundum  istiusmodi  expo- 
sitioues  dccet  sacras  litteras  credere  nee  nnum  quidem 
apicein  habere  vacuum  sapientia  Dei”).  Yet  all  these  ex- 
pressions represent  rather  the  general  religious  impres- 
si  mi  than  the  settled  dogma ; hence  we  find  the  ante-Ni- 
ccne  fathers  recognising  some  of  the  heathen  books  as 
inspired,  e.  g.  the  Sibyllian  books  (Theoph.  ail  Autol.  2, 
9),  whilst  at  the  same  time  they  expressed  views  ex- 
cluding the  idea  of  all  parts  of  Scripture  beiiiij  eauullu 
inspired  2 J 


o 

4.  The  definition  which  I)r.  Knapp  gives  of  inspira- 
tion is  one  which  most  will  readily  adopt.  He  says : 
“It  may  be  best  defined,  according  to  the  representa- 
tions of  the  Scriptures  themselves,  as  an  extraordinary 
divine  ayency  upon  teachers  while  yiviny  instruction, 
whether  oral  or  written , by  which  they  were  taught  what 
ami  how  they  should  write  or  speak."  The  nature,  per- 
manence, and  completeness  of  this  inspiration  are  mat- 
ters upon  which  orthodox  believers  have  differed.  (See 
below.) 

II.  The  Fact  of  the  Inspiration  of  the  Bible. — (On  this 
point  we  condense  the  arguments  of  Dr.  Leonard  Woods 
in  Kitto’s  Cyclopiedia,  s.  \\,  confining  ourselves  chiefly 
to  the  question  of  the  inspiration  of  the  written  word.) 
To  prove  that  the  Scriptures  are  divinely  inspired,  we 
might  with  propriety  refer  to  the  excellence  of  the  doc- 
trines, precepts,  and  promises,  and  other  instructions 
which  they  contain ; to  the  simplicity  and  majesty  of 
their  style ; to  the  agreement  of  the  different  parts,  and 
the  scope  of  the  whole;  especially  to  the  full  discovery 
they  make  of  man’s  fallen  and  ruined  state,  and  the  way 
of  salvation  through  a Redeemer;  together  Avith  their 
power  to  enlighten  and  sanctify  the  heart,  and  the  ac- 
companying Avitness  of  the  Spirit  in  believers.  But  the 
more  direct  and  conclusive  eAridence  that  the  Scriptures 
were  divinely  inspired  is  found  in  the  testimony  of  the 
writers  themselves.  As  the  Avriters  did,  by  working  mir- 
acles and  in  other  ways,  sufficiently  authenticate  their 
divine  commission,  and  establish  their  authority  and  in- 
fallibility as  teachers  of  di\rine  truth,  their  testimony, 
in  regard  to  their  oaa'ii  inspiration,  is  entitled  to  our  full 
confidence.  For  Avho  can  doubt  that  they  Avere  as  com- 
petent to  judge  and  as  much  disposed  to  speak  the 
truth  on  this  subject  as  on  any  other?  If,  then, avc  ad- 
mit their  divine  commission  and  authority,  Avliy  should 
avc  not  rely  upon  the  plain  testimony  Avliich  they  give 
concerning  the  divine  assistance  afforded  them  in  their 
Avork?  To  reject  their  testimony  in  this  case  would  be 
to  impeach  their  A'eracity,  and  thus  to  take  away  the 
foundation  of  the  Christian  religion. 

1.  The  prophets  generally  professed  to  speak  the  word 
of  God.  What  they  taught  Avas  introduced  and  con- 
firmed by  a “ Thus  saitli  the  Lord ;”  or  “ The  Lord  spake 
to  me,  saying.”  In  one  Avav  or  another  they  gave  clear 
proof  that  they  Avere  dhdnely  commissioned,  and  spoke 
in  the  name  of  God,  or,  as  it  is  expressed  in  the  New 
Testament,  that  God  spake  by  them. 

2.  The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  possessed  the  spirit  of  wis- 
dom Avithout  measure,  and  came  to  bear  witness  to  the 
truth.  Ilis  Avorks  proved  that  he  AA'as  Avhat  he  declared 
himself  to  be — the  Messiah,  the  great  Prophet,  the  in- 
fallible .Teacher.  The  faith  Avliich  rests  on  him  rests 
on  a rock.  As  soon,  then,  as  we  learn  Iioav  he  regarded 
the  Scriptures,  Ave  have  reached  the  end  of  our  inquiries. 
Ilis  Avord  is  truth.  Noav  every  one  Avho  carefully  at- 
tends to  the  four  Gospels  Avill  find  that  Christ  CA'ery- 
Avhere  spoke  of  that  collection  of  Avritings  called  the 
Scripture  as  the  Avord  of  God;  that  he  regarded  the 
"hole  in  this  light ; that  he  treated  the  Scripture,  and 
every  part  of  it,  as  infallibly  true,  and  as  clothed  Avith 
divine  authority  — thus  distinguishing  it  from  every 
mere  human  production.  Nothing  Avritten  by  man  can 
he  entitled  to  the  respect  Avhich  Christ  shoAved  to  the 
Scriptures.  This,  to  all  Christians,  is  direct  and  incon- 
trovertible evidence  of  the  divine  origin  of  the  Scrip- 
tures, and  is  by  itself  perfectly  conclusive. 

3.  But  there  is  clear  concurrent  evidence,  and  evi- 
dence still  more  specific,  in  the  Avritings  of  the  apostles. 
Particularly  in  one  passage  (2  Tim.  iii,  16),  Paid  lays  it 
doAvn  as  the  characteristic  of  “ all  Scripture ” that,  it  “ is 
given  by  inspiration  of  God ” (Qtbirvtvarog,  “ divinely 
inspired”) ; and  from  this  results  its  profitableness. 
Some  Avriters  think  that  the  passage  should  be  rendered 
thus : A ll  divinely  inspired  Scripture,  or,  all  Scripture , 
being  divinely  inspired,  is  profitable.  According  to  the 
common  rendering,  inspiration  Is  predicated  of  all  Scrip- 
ture. According  to  the  other,  it  is  presupposed  as  the 


INSPIRATION 


G13 


INSPIRATION 


attribute  of  the  subject.  But  this  rendering  is  liable  to 
insuperable  objections.  For  OeoTrutvarog  aiul  w<ptXifmc 
are  connected  bv  the  conjunction  icai,  and  must  both  be 
predicates,  if  either  of  them  is;  and  unless  one  of  them 
is  a predicate  there  is  no  complete  sentence.  Hender- 
son remarks  that  the  mode  of  construction  referred  to 
“is  at  variance  with  a common  rule  of  (Jreek  syntax, 
which  requires  that  when  two  adjectives  are  closely 
joined,  as  Otoiruevarog  and  w<pi\ipo(j  here  are,  if  there 
be  an  ellipsis  of  the  substantive  verb  tori,  this  verb 
must  be  supplied  after  the  former  of  the  two,  anil  re- 
garded as  repeated  after  the  latter.  Noav  there  exists 
precisely  such  an  ellipsis  in  the  case  before  us ; and  as 
there  is  nothing  in  the  context  which  woidd  lead  to  any 
exception  to  the  rule,  we  are  bound  to  yield  to  its  force.” 
He  adds  that  “ the  evidence  in  favor  of  the  common 
rendering,  derived  from  the  fathers,  and  almost  all  the 
versions,  is  most  decided.”  It  cannot  for  a moment  be 
admitted  that  the  apostle  meant  to  signify  that  divine 
inspiration  belongs  to  a part  of  Scripture,  but  not  to  the 
whole;  or  that  he  meant,  as  Semler  supposes,  to  furnish 
a criterion  by  which  to  judge  whether  any  work  is  in- 
spired or  not,  namely,  its  utility.  “That  author  pro- 
ceeds fearlessly  to  apply  this  criterion  to  the  books  of 
the  Old  Testament,  and  to  lop  off  eight  of  them  as  not 
possessing  the  requisite  marks  of  legitimacy.  Many  of 
the  German  divines  adopt  Sender's  hypothesis.”  But 
it  is  very  manifest  that  such  a sense  is  not  by  any  means 
suggested  by  the  passage  itself,  and  that  it  is  utterly 
precluded  by  other  parts  of  the  New  Testament.  For 
neither  Christ  nor  anyone  of  his  apostles  ever  intimates 
a distinction  between  some  parts  of  Scripture  which  are 
inspiied  and  other  parts  which  are  not  inspired.  The 
doctrine  which  is  plainly  asserted  in  the  text  under 
consideration,  anil  which  is  fully  sustained  by  the  cur- 
rent language  of  the  New  Testament,  is,  that  all  the 
writings  denominated  the  Scriptures  are  divinely  inspired. 
What  particular  books  have  a right  to  be  included  un- 
der this  sacred  designation  in  the  general  opinion  of  the 
Church  is  a question  considered  under  the  article  Can- 
on of  Scripture. 

III.  The  Manner  of  Inspiration. — The  interior  process 
of  the  Spirit’s  action  upon  the  minds  of  the  speakers  or 
writers  was  of  course  inscrutable  (John  iii,  8)  even  to 
themselves.  That  they  were  conscious,  however,  of  such 
an  influence  is  manifest  from  the  authority  with  which 
they  put  forth  their  words ; yet,  when  they  sat  down  to 
write,  the  divine  and  the  human  elements  in  their  men- 
tal action  were  perfectly  harmonious  and  inseparable 
(Luke  i,  3). 

As  to  the  outward  method,  “God  operated  on  the 
minds  of  inspired  men  in  a variety  of  ways,  sometimes 
by  audible  words,  sometimes  by  direct  inward  sugges- 
tions, sometimes  by  outward  visible  signs,  sometimes 
by  the  Urim  and  Thnmmim,  and  sometimes  by  dreams 
and  visions.  This  variety  in  the  mode  of  divine  influ- 
ence detracted  nothing  from  its  certainty.  God  made 
known  his  will  equally  in  different  ways;  and,  whatever 
the  mode  of  his  operation,  he  made  it  manifest  to  his 
servants  that  the  tilings  revealed  were  from  him.”  All 
this,  however,  relates  rather  to  revelation  than  simple 
inspiration,  a distinction  that  is  ably  made  by  Prof.  Lee 
in  his  work  on  the  subject. 

“ But  inspiration  was  concerned  not  only  in  making 
known  the  will  of  God  to  prophets  and  apostles,  but  also 
in  giving  them  direction  in  writing  the  sacred  books.  In 
this,  also,  there  was  a diversity  in  the  mode  of  divine 
influence.  Sometimes  the  Spirit  of  God  moved  and 
guided  his  servants  to  write  things  which  they  could 
not  know  by  natural  means,  such  as  new  doctrines  or 
precepts,  or  predictions  of  future  events.  Sometimes 
he  moved  and  guided  them  to  write  the  history  of 
events  which  were  wholly  or  partly  known  to  them  by 
tradition,  or  by  the  testimony  of  their  contemporaries, 
or  by  their  own  observation  or  experience.  In  all  these 
eases  the  divine  Spirit  effectually  preserved  them  from 
all  error,  and  influenced  them  to  write  just  so  much  and 


in  such  a manner  as  God  saw  to  be  best.  Sometimes 
he  moved  and  guided  them  to  write  a summary  record 
of  larger  histories,  containing  what  his  infinite  wisdom 
saw  to  be  adapted  to  the  end  in  view,  that  is,  the  bene- 
fit of  his  people  in  all  ages.  Sometimes  he  influenced 
them  to  make  a record  of  important  maxims  in  common 
use,  or  to  write  new  ones,  derived  either  from  their  own 
reason  or  experience,  or  from  special  divine  teaching. 
Sometimes  he  influenced  them  to  write  parables  or  alle- 
gories, particularly  suited  to  make  a salutary  impression 
of  divine  things  on  the  minds  of  men ; and  sometimes 
to  record  supernatural  visions.  In  these  and  all  other 
kinds  of  writing  the  sacred  penmen  manifestly  needed 
special  divine  guidance,  as  no  man  could  of  himself  at- 
tain to  infallibility,  and  no  wisdom,  except  that  of  God, 
was  sufficient  to  determine  what  things  ought  to  be 
written  for  permanent  use  in  the  Church,  and  what 
manner  of  writing  would  be  best  fitted  to  promote  the 
great  ends  of  revelation.” 

“ Some  writers  speak  of  different  modes  and  different 
kinds,  and  even  different  degrees  of  inspiration.  If 
their  meaning  is  that  God  influenced  the  minds  of  in- 
spired men  in  different  ways;  that  he  adopted  a variety 
of  modes  in  revealing  divine  things  to  their  minds ; that 
, he  guided  them  to  give  instruction  in  prose  and  in  poe- 
try', and  in  all  the  different  forms  of  composition ; that 
he  moved  and  guided  them  to  write  history,  prophecy, 
doctrines,  commands,  promises,  reproofs,  and  exhorta- 
tions, and  that  he  adapted  his  mode  of  operation  to  each 
of  these  eases — against  this  no  objection  can  be  made. 
The  Scriptures  do  exhibit  these  different  kinds  of  writ- 
ing and  modes  of  divine  instruction.  Still  every  part, 
of  what  was  written  was  divinely  inspired,  and  equally 
so.  It  is  all  the  word  of  God,  and  clothed  with  divine 
authority,  as  much  as  if  it  had  all  been  made  known 
and  Avrittcn  in  one  way.”  While  this  is  true  of  the 
word  as  written  or  as  originally'  uttered,  it  is  not  true 
that  all  the  subject  matter  is  equally'  revealed;  for  some 
of  the  facts,  doctrines,  and  views  ncre  known  to  the 
writers  in  their  ordinary  intelligence,  while  others  were 
specially  communicated  byr  immediate  divine  afflatus. 
In  other  words,  all  is  inspired , but  not  all  revealed. 

IV.  Theories  of  Inspiration. — These  may  be  concisely 
stated  thus:  (1.)  The  orthodox,  or  generally'  accepted 
view,  which  contents  itself  with  considering  Scripture 
to  be  inspired  in  such  a sense  as  to  make  it  infallibly' 
certain  when  apprehended  in  its  legitimate  sense,  and 
of  absolute  authority  in  all  matters  of  faith  and  con- 
science. This  theory'  has  lately'  been,  with  great  pro- 
priety, designated  as  the  dynamical , purporting  that  the 
power  or  influence  is  from  God,  while  the  action  is 
human.  (2.)  The  mystical,  or  extremely  strict  view, 
thought  to  have  been  held  by  Philo,  Josephus,  and 
some  of  the  primitive  Christian  fathers  (but  condemn- 
ed by'  the  early  councils  as  savoring  of  heathenish  pav- 
Tfta),  which  regarded  the  sacred  writers  as  wholly  pos- 
sessed by'  the  Spirit,  and  uttering  its  dicta  in  a spe- 
cies of  frenzy'.  This,  in  opposition  to  the  former,  has 
justly  been  characterized  as  the  mechanical  view,  de- 
noting the  passivity'  of  the  inspired  subject.  (3.)  The 
latitndinarian  view,  entertained  by'  Nationalists  of  all 
orders,  which  deems  inspiration  but  a high  style  of  po- 
etic or  religious  fervor,  and  not  inconsistent  with  errors 
in  fact  and  sentiment. 

This  last  view  is  not  to  be  confounded,  however,  with 
that  of  those  who  limit  inspiration  to  such  matters  in 
holy  Scripture  as  directly  pertain  to  the  proper  material 
of  revelation,  i.  e.  to  strictly  religious  truth,  whether  of 
doctrine  or  practice.  Among  English  divines,  those 
who  have  asserted  this  form  of  theory  are  Howe  ( Divine 
Authority  of  Scripture,  lect.viii  and  ix),  Bp. Williams 
(Boyle  Lect.  serm.  iv,  p.  133),  Burnet  ( A rticle  vi,  p.  157. 
Qxf.  ed.  1814),  Lowth  ( Yind . of  ltiv.  Auth.  and  Inspir. 
of  Old  and  New  Testament,  p.  45  sq.),  Hey  (Theof.  Lect. 
i,  90).  Bp.  Watson  ( Tracts,  iv,  446),  Bp.  Law  ( Theory  of 
Religion),  Tomlir.e  ( Theoloey . i,  21),  Dr.  J.  Barrow  (Dis- 
sertations, 1819.4th  diss.),  Dean  Conybeare  ( Theological 


INSPIRATION 


G14 


INSPIRATION 


Lectures,  p.  18G),  Bp.  Hinds  ( Inspiration  of  Scripture, 
p.  151),  Bp.  D.  Wilson  (lecture  xiii  on  Evidences,  i,  509), 
Parry  (. Inquiry  into  the  Nature  of  the  Inspiration  of  the 
A po'stles , p.  26,  27),  anti  Bp.  Blomficld  (. Lectures  on  Acts, 
v,  88-90).  Others  have  even  gone  so  far  as  to  avow 
that  the  value  of  the  religious  element  in  the  revelation 
would  not  he  lessened  if  errors  were  acknowledged  in 
the  scientific  and  miscellaneous  matter  which  accompa- 
nies it.  Among  those  who  have  held  this  form  of  the 
theorv  are  Baxter  ( Method . Theol  Chr.  pt.  iii,  cli.  xii, 
9,  4 ),*Tillotson  (UorAvs,  fol.  iii,  440,  sermon  108),  Dod- 
dridge (On  Inspir .),  Warburton  (Doctr.  of  Grace,  bk.  i, 
ch.vii),  Bp.  Horsley  (serm.  39  on  Eccles.  xii,  7,  Works, 
iii,  175),  Bp.  Randolph  (Rem.  on  Michaelis1  Introd.  p.  15, 
1(5),  Paley  (Evid.  of  Christianity,  pt.  iii,  eh.  ii),  Whate- 
ly  (Ess.  on  I)ijf.  in  St.  Paul,  ess.  i and  ix;  Sermons  on 
Festivals,  p.  90;  Peeul.  of  Christianity,  p.  233),  Hamp- 
den (Hampton  Lect.  p.  301),  Thirlwall  (Schleiermacher’s 
Luke,  Introd.  p.  15),  Bp.  Heber  (Bampt.  Lect.  viii,  577), 
Thomas  Scott  (Essay  on  Inspir.  p.  3),  Dr.  Pve  Smith 
(Script,  and  Geol.  p.  276,  237,  3d  ed.),  and  Dean  Alford 
(Prohg.  to  Gosp.  ed.  1859,  vol.  i,  ch.  i,  § 22).  (For  other 
writers  who  have  held  the  same  views,  see  Dr.  David- 
son’s Facts,  Statements,  etc.,  in  defence  of  his  vol.  ii  of 
Horne’s  Introd.  1857.)  The  inadmissibility,  however,  of 
either  of  these  limitations  to  inspiration  is  evident  from 
two  considerations:  1st,  That  the  sacred  writers  them- 
selves make  no  such  discrimination  in  their  professions 
of  divine  sanction;  and  it  would,  in  fact,  be  subversive 
of  the  above  distinction  between  inspiration  and  revela- 
tion ; and,  2dly,  The  line  of  demarcation  between  what 
is  important  to  religion  and  what  is  not  is  too  fine  to  be 
traced  by  any  expositor,  so  that  we  would  thus  unsettle 
our  whole  confidence  in  the  truthfulness  of  the  Scrip- 
tures. We  therefore  are  compelled  by  the  necessity  of 
the  ease,  no  less  than  the  positive  declarations  of  the 
Bible  itself,  to  maintain  that  “all  Scripture  is  divinely 
inspired,”  and  not  some  of  its  parts  or  statements  alone. 
At  the  same  time  we  may,  without  inconsistency — nay, 
we  must,  in  the  light  of  just  criticism — admit  that  the 
phraseology  in  which  these  statements  is  couched  is  ' 
oftentimes  neither  elegant  nor  exact.  Yet  this  does  not 
impair  their  essential  truth,  as  the  testimony  of  an  il-  j 
literate  witness  may  be  scrupulously  truthful,  although 
confused  in  order  and  unscientific  in  form.  Provided 
the  facts  are  substantially  given,  the  want  of  logical, 
rhetorical,  and  grammatical  precision  is  comparatively- 
unimportant,  and  forms  no  ground  of  impeachment. 
The  mental  habits  of  the  sacred  writers  must  be  taken 
into  account  in  order  to  arrive  at  their  meaning,  and 
this  last,  indeed,  in  the  case  of  any  writer,  is  what  the 
reader  is  in  search  of,  and  of  which  language,  whether 
clear  or  obscure,  is  legitimately  but  the  vehicle.  The  j 
errors  imputed  to  the  Scriptures  by  certain  scientific 
men  have  accordingly  all  been  explained, sooner  or  later, 
as  being  merely  apparent,  and  due  to  the  popular  style  ! 
of  the  sacred  writers.  Even  the  most  difficult  instances 
of  these,  such  as  the  omissions  and  general  enumera- 
tions in  the  genealogies  [see  Gkneaixkiv  ok  Cukist], 
are  susceptible  of  the  same  explanation,  since  these  I 
were  evidently  copied  faithfully  from  public  registers, 
which,  however  incorrect  they  may  seem  to  us,  were 
of  unquestioned  currency  at  the  time.  A nicety  in 
stopping  to  rectify  these  (for,  be  it  observed,  no  one  was 
led  into  error  by  the  transcription,  since  the  writers,  i 
and,  indeed,  the  whole  public,  were  perfectly  aware  of  the 
.discrepancy)  would  have  been  a far  greater  piece  of 
pedantry  than  for  a modern  divine  to  pause  in  the  midst  I 
of  a quotation  of  Scripture  to  correct  an  unimportant 
mistranslation  in  the  Authorized  Version.  Just  so  when 
our  Lord  and  the  apostle  Paul  freely  cite  passages  ac- 
cording to  the  inexact  rendering  of  the  Septuagint, 
and  sometimes  even  make  them  the  point  of  an  argu- 
ment; it.  is  no  disparagement  either  to  their  intelligence 
or  inspiration,  but  rather  an  evidence  of  their  apprecia- 
tion of  the  literary  aptitudes  of  those  whom  they  ad- 
dressed. See  Accommodation. 


On  the  other  hand,  within  the  bounds  of  the  orthodox 
view  of  inspiration,  as  above  stated,  there  are  two  epi- 
thets currently  employed  which  seem  to  border  too  close- 
ly upon  the  extravagant,  and  are  equally  unnecessary 
and  incorrect. 

1.  u Plenary  Inspiration"  is  a phrase  nowhere  war- 
ranted by  the  Scriptures  as  predicated  of  themselves. 
Christ  alone  was  plenarily  inspired  (John  iii,  34)  of  all 
human  beings,  'flic  term  plenary  authority  would  be 
far  more  scriptural  and  definite. 

2.  “ Verbal  Inspiration"  is  an  expression  still  more 
objectionable  as  applied  to  the  Scriptures.  For, 

(I.)  DM,  as  such,  are  incapable  of  inspiration.  They 
are  either  oral,  consisting  of  certain  sounds,  or  written, 
consisting  of  certain  marks  on  paper;  both  material 
signs  of  which  a spiritual  element  cannot  properly  be 
predicated.  Thought,  ideas,  sentiments  only  can  be  in- 
spired; and  this  is  really  what  the  theorists  mean.  It 
is  better  to  say  so  plainly. 

(II.)  The  assumption  by  these  theorists  that  we  think 
only  in  words  is  plentifully  contradicted  by  every  man’s 
consciousness.  As  children,  we  have  conceptions  long 
before  wc  have  words.  The  dog  that  lies  dreaming  of 
the  chase  has  rapid  trains  of  thought,  but  not  a syllable 
of  a word.  We  are  constantly  exercising  perceptions 
of  shades  of  color,  and  shapes  of  matter,  for  which  there 
is  no  name.  He  must  have  a feeble  power  of  conscious- 
ness, or  a mighty  power  over  words,  who  is  not  often 
possessed  of  a thought  for  which  he  pauses  for  the  word. 
We  hold  the  conception  fast,  waiting  for  its  correlative 
term  to  come.  Who  does  not  often  think  of  a friend’s 
face  without  being  able  to  recall  his  name?  Words,  it 
is  true,  enable  us  to  express  our  ideas,  and  generally 
that  expression  renders  the  conception  itself  more  dis- 
tinct. But  surely  God  is  shut  up  to  no  such  necessity 
in  communicating  his  mind  to  men.  His  Spirit  even 
gives  us  thoughts  beyond  the  compass  of  language 
(aXdXgra,  Bom.  viii,  26;  cipppra,  2 Cor.  xii,  4). 

(III.)  'fhe  suggestion  of  the  ipsissima  verba  to  the 
minds  of  the  sacred  writers  is  incompatible  with  their 
free  action,  as  evinced  in  the  varieties  and  even  blem- 
ishes of  style.  These  are  clearly  the  human  element, 
partaking  of  the  imperfection  and  diversity  inseparable 
from  man’s  productions.  To  say  that  God  makes  use 
of  them  is  only  evading  the  point.  He  does  not  di- 
rectly supply  them  nor  authorize  them  ; he  only  suffers 
them.  The  inconsistency  of  statement,  by  Gaussen  and 
other  verbalists  on  this  head  is  palpable,  and  shows  the 
untciiableness  of  their  position  in  the  face  of  infidel  ob- 
jections and  rationalistic  criticism.  Equally  inconclu- 
sive and  self-contradictory  is  their  method  of  disposing 
of  the  objection  that  if  the  actual  Greek  and  Hebrew 
words  are  inspired,  no  translations  can  in  any  correla- 
tive sense  be  called  “ the  word  of  God.” 

(IV.)  Nothing  is  gained  by  asserting  the  verbal  the- 
ory that  is  not  equally  secured  in  point  of  divine  sanc- 
tion and  infallible  truth  by  simply  claiming  for  the  Holy 
Scriptures  that  their  statements  and  sentiments  sub- 
stantially and  in  their  essential  import  represent  the 
mind  and  will  of  God;  that  they  contain  divine  thoughts 
clothed  in  merely  human  language.  Such  is  the  obvi- 
ous fact,  recognised  by  every  devout  and  judicious  in- 
terpreter. Such  a view,  indeed,  gives  far  more  dignity 
to  the  sacred  volume  than  the  mechanical  theory  of  a 
mere  amanuensis.  It  is  the  power  of  God  in  earthen 
vessels  (2  Cor.  iv,  7). 

(V.)  The  theorv  of  verbal  inspiration  is  comparative- 
ly recent  in  the  history  of  theology. 

[l.J  There  is  no  such  theory  stated  in  the  Scriptures. 
Scriptural  authority  would  preelude  all  citation  of  names, 
great  or  small,  among  the  theologians.  The  passages 
adduced  in  its  favor  have  no  pertinence. 

[2.]  The  fathers  had  no  definite  theory  of  inspiration 
at  all.  Sometimes,  in  dwelling  upon  the  perfection  of 
Scripture,  they  used  striking  figures  and  strong  expres- 
sions, from  which  we  might  infer  a belief  in  verbal  in- 
spiration. But,  on  the  other  hand,  their  ordinary  mode 


INSPIRATION 


615 


INSPIRATION 


of  commenting  on  Scripture,  of  quoting  it,  and  of  de- 
fending it,  is  inconsistent  with  such  a belief. 

(a.)  John,  the  presbyter,  who  is  believed  to  have  been 
one  of  our  Lord's  disciples,  speaking  of  Mark’s  Gospel, 
says  that  Mark  “wrote  it  with  great  accuracy,  as  Pe- 
ter’s interpreter.  . . . lie  committed  no  mistake  when 
he  wrote  down  things  as  he  remembered  them.  lie 
was  very  careful  to  omit  nothing  of  what  he  had  heard, 
and  to  say  nothing  false  in  what  he  related”  (Eusebius, 
JJist.  Juries,  iii,  39). 

(5.)  Justin  Martyr,  after  using  the  figure  of  the  “ lyre,” 
which  is  so  much  relied  upon  by  the  advocates  of  ver- 
bal inspiration,  goes  on  to  limit  his  remark  to  “those 
things  in  Scripture  which  are  necessary  for  us  to  know” 
(Just.  Ad  Greec.  § 8). 

(c.)  Irenafus,  in  a fragment  on  “ the  style  of  St. Paul,” 
alludes  to  the  fact  that  his  sentences  were  sometimes 
“ unsyntactic,”  and  accounts  for  it  by  the  “rapidity  of 
his  utterances  (velocities  sermonum ),  and  the  impulsive- 
ness of  spirit  which  distinguished  him.” 

((/.)  Clemens  Alexandrinus  states  that  “ Peter  having 
preached  the  Gospel  at  Borne  . . . many  present  ex- 
horted Mark  to  write  the  things  which  had  been  spoken, 
since  he  had  long  accompanied  Peter,  and  remembered 
what  he  had  said;  and  when  he  had  composed  the  Gos- 
pel, he  delivered  it  to  them  who  had  asked  it  of  him” 
(Eusebius,  Hist.  Eccles.  vi,  14). 

( e .)  Origen,  speaking  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews, 
remarks  that  the  “ thoughts  are  Paul’s,  but  the  language 
belongs  to  some  qne  who  committed  to  writing  what 
the  apostle  said,  and,  as  it  were,  reduced  to  commenta- 
ries the  things  spoken  by  his  master.  Hut  the  ideas 
are  admirable,  and  not  inferior  to  the  acknowledged 
writings  of  the  apostle.”  Again,  speaking  of  an  appar- 
ent discrepancy  between  John  and  Matthew,  Origen 
says,  “ I believe  it  to  be  impossible  for  those  who  upon 
this  subject  direct  attention  merely  to  the  external  His- 
tory, to  prove  that  this  apparent  contradiction  can  be 
reconciled”  (Origen,  in  Johann,  i,  183). 

(f.)  Chrysostom  remarks  on  Acts  xxvi,G : “ Here  Paul 
speaks  humanly,  and  does  not  throughout  enjoy  grace, 
but  is  permitted  to  intermix  even  his  own  materials.” 

( g .)  Augustine  declares  that  the  evangelists  wrote 
more  or  less  fully,  “ according  as  each  remembered,  and 
as  each  had  it  in  his  heart  (ut  quisque  mcminerat,  et  ut 
cuique  cordi  erat);”  and  asserts  that  the  “truth  is  not 
bound  to  the  words,”  and  that  the  “ language  of  the 
evangelists  might  be  ever  so  different,  provided  their 
thoughts  were  the  same”  (August,  he  Consensu  Evangel- 
ist. ii,  12, 28). 

[3.  ] The  period  between  the  fathers  and  the  school- 
men is  of  so  little  value  in  the  history  of  theology  that 
it  is  hardly  worth  while  to  refer  to  it.  One  or  two 
writers  of  some  note  in  this  period  adopted  verbal  in- 
spiration, but  there  was  no  received  theory  of  the  kind. 
Agobard,  archbishop  of  Lyons,  in  answer  to  Fredegis 
(who  is  cited  by  Prof.  Harris),  asks,  “ What  absurdity 
follows  if  the  notion  be  adopted  that  the  Holy  Spirit  not 
only  inspired  the  prophets  and  apostles  with  the  sense 
of  their  teachings,  but  also  fashioned  on  their  lips  the 
very  words  themselves,  bodily  and  outwardly  (corporca 
verba  extrinseeus  in  ora  illorum)”  (Agobard,  Contra 
Fredegisnm , c.  12). 

[4.]  By  the  schoolmen,  and  subsequently  by  the  doc- 
tors of  the  Church  in  general,  a distinction  was  made 
in  inspiration  between  rerelatio  and  assistentiu. 

[5.]  Of  the  great  reformers,  Luther,  Melanethou,  Cal- 
vin, and  Zwinglius,  not  one  maintained  any  such  doc- 
trine as  that  of  verbal  inspiration,  while  they  all  speak 
in  the  strongest  possible  language  of  the  divinity,  cred- 
ibility, and  infallibility  of  the  sacred  writings. 

[G.J  It  was  in  the  17th  century  that  the  notion  of 
verbal  inspiration,  which  had  before  only  floated  about 
from  one  individual  mind  to  another,  took  the  shape  of 
a definite  theory,  and  received  a proper  ecclesiastical 
sanction.  The  subject  was  treated  at  length  by  Calovi-  j 
us  (the  bitter  opponent  of  Grotius  and  Calixtus),  who  [ 


set  forth  the  verbal  theory  very  fully;  and  later  writers, 
both  Lutheran  and  Keformcd,  carried  it  so  far  as  to  ex- 
tend inspiration  to  the  vowel-points  and  the  punctua- 
tion. The  Formula  Consensus  JJelvetici  declares  that 
the  Old  Testament  “ is  Otom/evoToi;,  equally  as  regards 
the  consonants,  the  vowels,  and  the  vowel-points,  or  at 
least  their  force.” 

V.  Literature. — Early  treatises  on  the  subject,  of  a 
general  character,  are  those  of  Quenstedt, Carpzov,  Weg- 
ner, Lange,  Le  Clerc,  Lowth,  Lamothe,  Clarke,  Doddridge, 
etc.,  which  rather  belong  to  the  province  of  “Introduc- 
tion” (q.  v.);  more  explict  are  the  works  of  Bayly,  Es- 
say on  Inspiration  (London,  1707,  1708) ; Jaquelot,  La 
Verite  et  1' Inspiration  dts  livres  du  J'.  et  A.  T.  (Kotterd. 
1715) ; C’alamy,  Inspiration  of  0.  and  A.  Test.  (London, 
1710)  ; M artensc,  Christiana'  doctrines  de  dirina  Sacra- 
rum  Litterarum  inspir.  rindicite  (Jena,  1724);  Klemm, 
Theopneust.  Sacrorum  Lift,  asseria  (Tub.  1743) ; Stosch, 
De  duplici  A postal!,  theopneustia,  turn  generali  him  spe- 
ciali  (Guelpherb.  1754);  Bullstedt,  I)e  vera  S.  S.  inspi- 
rations indole  (Coburg,  1757  sq.)  ; Teller,  De  ins2)ir.  di- 
vina  Vatum  Sacrorum  (llelmst.  1762);  also  Diss.de  In- 
spir. Script.  Sac.  judicio  forvumdo  (Helmst.  17G4) ; Toll- 
ner,  Die  Gbttliche  Eingebung  der  heiligen  Schrift  unter- 
sucht  (Mittau  and  Leipzig.  1772) ; Jablonsky,  De  2reo7r- 
I'fuorm  Scriptorum  Sacrorum  A.  T.  [in  his  Opusc.  ed. 
te  Water,  iv,  425-54) ; Wakefield,  Essay  on  Inspiration 
(Loud.  1781);  Meyer,  De  Inspirutione  S.  S.  (Tr.  ad  II h. 
1784) ; Hegelmaicr,  De  Theopneustia  ejusque  statu  in  vi- 
ris  sanctis  IAbb.  Sure,  auctnribus  (Tub.  1784);  Miller, 
Cum  theopneustia  A postolornm  nec  omniscientiam  quasi 
uliquam,  nec  anamai-tesiam  fuisse  (Gott.  1789) ; Ilenck- 
el,  Jnspirationem  Err.  et  Act.  sine  ttllo  religionis  damno 
negari  posse  dubitatum  (Frcft.  ad  V.  1793) : the  definite 
questions  of  the  extent  and  character  of  inspiration, 
however,  are  specially  discussed  in  the  works  of  Moore, 
Plenary  Inspiration  of  the  A.  T.  (Loud.  1793);  Jesse,  On' 
the  Learning  and  Inspiration  of  the  Apostles  (Loudon, 
1798) ; Findlay,  The  Divine  Inspiration  of  the  Jewish 
Scriptures,  etc.  (Lond.  1803);  Dick,  Essay  on  the  Inspi- 
ration of  the  Holy  Scriptures  (Glasgow,  1800;  4th  edit. 
1840) ; Son  tag,  Doctr.  inspiration's  ejusque  ratio,  hist,  et 
usus popularis  (Heidelberg,  1810) ; Dullo,  Ether  d.gbtil. 
Eingebung  des  A.  T.  (Jena,  1810)  ; II.  Planck,  Ueber  Of  - 
fenbarung  u.  Inspiration  [opposed  to  Schleiermacher’s 
views]  (Gott.  1817);  Bennel,  Proofs  of  Inspiration  [N. 
T.  compared  with  Apocrypha]  (Lond.  1822) ; Parry,  In- 
quiry into  the  Aature  and  Extent  of  the  Inspiration  of  the 
Writers  of  the  A.  T.  (2d  edit.  London,  1822) ; Macleod, 
View  of  Inspiration  [gentral  statement  of  fact]  (Glasg. 
1827) ; Carson,  Theories  of  Inspiration  [review  of  Wil- 
son, Pye  Smith,  and  Dick]  (Edinb.  1830) ; Haldane,  The 
Books  of  the  ().  and  A.  T.  proved  to  be  canonical,  and 
their  Verbal  Inspiration  maintained  and  established,  etc. 
[a  brief  partisan  treatise]  (5th  ed.  Edinb.  1853);  Hinds, 
Bp.,  Proofs,  Aature,  and  Extent  of  Inspiration  (Oxford, 
1831) ; Fraser,  Essay  on  the  Plenary  and  Verbal  Inspira- 
tion of  the  Holy  Scriptures  [a  popular  view]  (in  New 
Family  Library',  vol.  ii,  Edinb.  1834);  Henderson,  Divine 
Inspiration  [a  calm  and  judicious  treatise,  endeavoring 
to  reconcile  the  extreme  theories,  and  therefore  some- 
what inconsistent  with  itself]  (London,  1836;  4th  edit. 
1852) ; Carson,  Divine  Inspiration  [strictures  on  Hen- 
derson] (London,  1837);  Ganssen,  Theopneustie  [a  rhe- 
torical rather  than  logical  plea  for  the  extreme  view] 
(2d  ed.  1842;  translated  into  English,  Edinburgh,  1850; 
Boston,  1850) ; Jahn,  A d quosdam  pertinent  promiss.  Sp. 
S.  sec.  A.  Test.  (Basle,  1841) ; Leblois,  Sur  l' Inspiration 
des  premiers  Ch  retiens  (Strasburg,  1850);  Carson,  Inspi- 
ration [violent]  (Dublin,  1854) ; Lee,  Inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Scriptures  [an  excellent  work,  making  many  good 
distinctions,  and  giving  the  history',  but  defective  in 
arrangement  and  exactness]  (Dublin,  1857,  2d  edit.).; 
Wordsworth,  Inspiration  of  Canon  [apologetic]  (Lon- 
don, 1848,1851  ; Philadelphia,  1854);  Lord , Plenary  In- 
spiration of  the  Scriptures  [an  extremist]  (New  York, 
1858);  Macnaught,  Inspir.  Infill,  and  A uthor.  of  Scrip- 


616 


INSPIRED 


INSPIRED 


tures  [apologetic]  (London,  1H5G) ; Bannermann,  Truth 
and  .1  uthority  of  Scripture  [aims  at  orthodoxy,  but  fails 
to  meet  the  controversy  fully]  (Edinb.  1864) ; Hannah, 
Divine  and  Human  Elements  in  lloh f Scripture  (Hamp- 
ton Lect.for  1853;  presents  many  points  clearly);  Howe, 


Effects  [chiefly  apologetic]  (London,  1867) ; Curtis,  Hu- 
man Element  in  Inspiration  [nationalistic]  (X.  Y.  1867). 
See  also  Horne,  Introduction,  i;  \ Vitsins,  Miscell.  Sac.  i, 
p.  2G2  sq. ; Twestcn,  Dogmatik,  i,  see.  23-28;  Hill,  Lec- 
tures on  Divinity , bk.  ii,  eh.  i ; Tholuck,  in  the  Jour,  of 
Sac.  Lit.  July,  1854,  p.  331  sq.  [takes  rather  a low  posi- 
tion for  orthodoxy]  (from  the  Deutsche  Zeitschr.  1850) ; 
Steudel,  in  the  tubing.  Zeitschr.  1840  [takes  more  ad- 
vanced ground]  (transl.  in  the  licit . and  For.  Ev.  Rev. 
Oct.  1862) ; Rudelbach,  in  the  Zeitschr.  f.  Luth.  Theol. 
i860  [mostly  historical]  (transl.  in  part  in  the  Brit,  ami 
For.  Ec.  Rev.  April,  1863);  Wcstcott,  Introd.  to  the  Gos- 
pels, p.  5,  383;  Donaldson,  Hist.  Christ.  Lit,  and  Doctr. 
(see  theol.  Index,  \ ol.  iii);  Werner,  Gesch.  d.  apolog.  u. 
polem.  Litter,  d.  christl.  Theol.  v,  346  sq. ; Denziger,  Die 
theol.  Lehre  v.  d.  Inspiration  mit  Bezieh  ting  auf  mannig- 
faltige  dltere  nnd  neuere  A birrungen  c.  richtigen  uiul  cor- 
recten  Beyriffen  (in  the  Rel.  Erkldr,  ii,  156-242) ; Fr.  de 
Rougemont,  Christ  et  ses  temoins  (Paris,  1856,  2 vols.) 
[opposes  Gaussen  and  the  false  spiritualism  of  the  Stras- 
burg  school  of  Scherer  and  others]  ; Lange,  rhilosoph. 
Dogm.  p.  540  sq. ; Pye  Smith,  First  Lines  of  Christian 
Theol.  (see  Index:  “Scripture”);  Auberlen,  Die.  Reve- 
lation, p.  204, 233  sq.,  245 ; Martensen,  Christian  Doginat. 
p.  18,  338  sq.,  402  sq. ; Farrar,  Critical  History  of  Free 
Thought  (see  Index);  Donaldson,  Christian  Orthodoxy, 
ch.  iii  and  Appendix  v;  13aur,  Dogmengesch.  (see  Index 
to  each  vol.  i-iii);  Bull,  Theol.  ii,  152;  Delitzsch,  Bill. 
Psychol. p. 433 ; Liddon, Led.  I860, p.45,219;  Au- 
gusti, Dogmengesch. i, ii  (see  Index);  31  iinscher, Dogmen- 
gesch. ii,  210;  Kahnis,  T'<  ("torch,  p.  116;  Ilickersteth. 
Christ.  Stud.  ]).  460 ; .1  ids  to  Faith,  p.  287  sq. ; Xeander, 
Ch.  Dogm.  ii, 433, 142, 607 ; Hurst,  Rationalism,  p.  200  sq., 
516  sq. ; Carmichael,  Theol.  and  Metaph.  of  Scripture,  i, 
1 sq. ; .Maurice,  Theolog.  Essays,  p.  311;  Engl.  Rev.  xii, 
247 ; Land.  Quart.  Rev.  1856,  p.  559;  1860,  p.  527 ; 1865, 
p.  260;  Xorth.  Brit.  Rev.  xxv,  71;  Stud.  u.  Krit.  1869, 
p.  468;  Bib.  Sacra,  1865,  p.  350,  519;  Oct.  1867,  p.  67, 
193  ; 1868.  p.  192  sq.,  316,  381 ; 1869,  p.  588;  1870,  p.33; 
Christian  Remembrancer,  1856,  art.  i;  Jan.  1862,  p.  506; 
18G8,  p.  287;  Christian  Examiner,  1865,  p.  255;  Meth. 
Quart.  Rev.  1850,  p.  500;  1855,  p.  395;  1867  and  1868, 
Dr. Haven  on  Inspiration;  1870, p.  110;  Xew  Englander, 
1861,  p.  809 ; 1863,  p.  95;  Oct.  1867;  West, n.  Rev.  1864, 
p.  255,  257 ; .1  m.  Presb.  Rev.  1854,  p.  141 ; i860,  p.  182; 
1865,  p.  328,  519 ; Oct.  1866 ; Princeton  Rep.  1857,  p.  6G0 ; 
Bapt.  Quart.  Rev.  Jail.  1868. 

Inspired,  the  name  of  a sect  which  existed  for 
some  150  years  in  Germany,  and  remnants  of  which  are 
still  to  be  found  in  the  Cnited  States.  They  owe  their 
origin  partly  to  the  French  Prophets  [see  Ca.misahds], 
•partly  to  the  German  Separatists  (q.  v.).  Their  name 
they  derived  from  the  fact  that,  aside  from  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Scriptures,  they  also  believe  in  an  immedi- 
ate divine  inspiration,  affecting  the  person  in  such  a 
maimer  that  he  becomes  the  instrument  bv  which  the 
Holy  Spirit  manifests  itself,  and  he  is  therefore  to  be 
obeyed  by  the  faithful.  After  the  unfortunate  conclu- 
sion of  the  religious  war  in  the  Cevennes,  a large  num- 
ber of  these  french  Prophets,  for  the  most  part  holiest, 
hut  in  whom  bodily  sufferings  had  exalted  the  mind 
until  they  believed  themselves  directly  inspired  by  God. 
went  to  England  and  Scotland.  Most  important  among 
them  at  that  time  were  Elie  Marion,  Durande  Page, 
Jean  ( ’iivalier,  and  Jean  Allimt.  These  prophets  preach- 
ed against  France,  and  especially  against  the  papacy, 
which  hitter  they  considered  as  the  Anti-Christ.  They 
Boon,  however,  became  objects  of  suspicion  on  account 
of  their  attempts  at  raising  the  dead,  and  were  expelled 
from  the  established  Episcopal  Church.  Obliged,  there- 


fore, to  form  a separate  sect,  Allnut  and  Marion,  with 
their  adherents,  connected  themselves  for  a while  with 
the  French  Reformed  churches  of  the  Netherlands,  but 
they  failed  also  here  to  acquire  any  influence.  On  the 
other  hand,  they  obtained  great  consideration  among 
the  Pietists  and  Separatists  of  Northern  and  Western 
Germany,  and  established  separate  congregations  at 
Halle  (1713)  and  Berlin  (1714).  From  Halle  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Inspired  were  disseminated  into  the  neigh- 
boring regions,  and  communities,  composed  chiefly  of 
Separatist  emigrants  from  France  and  Suabia,  soon 
formed  in  many  places.  Their  chiefs  were  E.  L.  Gru- 
ber, at  Ilimbach,  near  Hanau  (born  1665,  f 1728);  A. 
Gross,  in  Frankfort ; the  saddler,  J.  F.  Rock,  at  Him- 
bacli ; and  the  hermit,  E.  C.  Hochmann,  at  Schwarze- 
nau,  near  Berleburg  (born  1670,  f 1721).  In  1716  they 
took  the  name  of  Truly  Inspired  (see  J.  J.  Winkcl,  Cas- 
imir,  Bielef.  1850).  Their  organization  was  based  on 
the  so-called  twenty-four  rules  of  true  sanctification  and 
of  holy  conduct,  taken  mainly  from  an  address  of  Johann 
A.  Gruber  in  1716.  Up  to  1719  they  counted  nine  of 
their  members  endowed  with  the  gift  of  inspiration. 
In  order  to  make  proselytes,  these  travelled  through  all 
the  neighboring  districts,  Switzerland  and  Western  Ger- 
many, especially  the  Palatinate  and  Alsace,  and  even 
visited  Saxony  and  Bohemia.  They  established  com- 
munities at  Schwarzcnau,  Honiringhausen,  near  Berle- 
burg, Himbaeh  and  Bcrgheim,  Nonneburg,  Diidelslieim, 
Budingen,  Birstein  in  Wetteraw,  Anwetler  in  the  Palat- 
inate, Goppingen,  Calvv,  Stuttgart,  Heilbronn,  Ulm, 
Memmingcn  in  Wiirtemberg,  Schaffkansen,  Zurich, 
Berne,  Diesbach,  Amsoldingen  in  Switzerland.  In  the 
mean  time  the  number  of  inspired  members  did  not  in- 
crease, and  the  eight  died  out  one  by  one,  until,  in  1719, 
Rock  alone  remained,  and  he  continued  to  be  the  head 
of  the  sect  until  his  death  in  1749.  From  that  time  the 
sect  gradually  lost  its  influence.  A number  of  former 
members,  under  the  leadership  of  Gruber,  Gleim,  Mack- 
inet,  and  other  Separatists,  emigrated  to  America,  and 
settled  at  Germantown,  Pa.  In  1730,  when  the  Ilerrn- 
hut  movement  begun,  Rock  had  some  difficulties  with 
his  former  friend  Zinzendorf,  which  proved  fatal  to  the 
interest  of  the  Inspired.  He  also  had  a long  controver- 
sy with  the  Mystic  Separatist  Johann  Ivaiser,  who  had 
founded  a Philadelphian  community  at  Stuttgart  in 
1710,  and  founded  an  Inspired  one  in  1717.  In  1745-50 
communities  at  Wetteraw  ami  Ilerriftiaag  became  con- 
verts to  the  enthusiasts,  who  even  at  that  time  succeed- 
ed in  making  proselytes.  They  were  joined  by  the 
court  preacher  Ksimpf,  of  Banlil,  in  Alsace,  who  remain- 
ed attached  to  the  cause  until  his  death  in  1753,  and 
the  celebrated  theologians  Ottinger  and  Tersteegen 
themselves  were  for  a time  favorable  to  the  movement. 
After  1816  the  sect  received  a new  impulse,  and  reor- 
ganized themselves  under  the  leadership  of  Michael 
Krausert,  a tailor  of  Strasburg,  and  later  under  Christian 
Metz  (born  at  Neuwied  in  1792),  but,  being  subjected  to 
severe  oppression  by  the  civil  authority,  they  emigra- 
ted. numbering  about  800,  in  1841,  to  this  country,  and 
settled  at  Ebenezer,  near  Buffalo,  in  the  state  of  New 
York.  They  established  a community  which  still  ex- 
ists at  that  place.  They  support  themselves  by  agri- 
culture and  the  manufacturing  of  cloth,  pract  ising  com- 
munism to  a certain  extent ; their  numbers  are  about 
2000.  They  have  also  established  colonies  in  Canada 
and  (since  1854)  in  Iowa.  The  Inspired  occupy  a 
place  midway  between  the  Separatists  and  the  Herrn- 
hutters.  In  their  doctrines  they  arc  evangelical,  but 
they  reject  the  sacraments,  and  disclaim  any  relation  to 
the  Evangelical  Church.  They  consider  themselves 
soldiers  of  Christ,  and,  as  such,  obliged  to  lead  a life  of 
renouncement  and  abnegation ; in  their  practice  they 
follow  the  principles  of  the  Mystic  Schwenkfeld,  J. 
Bohm,  Weigel,  etc.  Inspiration,  they  believe,  is  always 
preceded  by  some  material  sign  or  physical  sensation, 
such  as  a burning  in  the  chest,  cessation  of  breathing, 
convulsive  motions  of  the  arms,  etc.,  after  which,  in  a 


INSTALLAEE 


617 


INSTRUMENTAL  MUSIC 


sort  of  somnambulic  state,  the  inspired  person  receives 
and  manifests  the  divine  inspiration : this  manifestation 
consists  sometimes  only  in  convulsive  motions,  or  in 
broken  sentences,  which  latter  arc  generally  invitations 
to  repentance  and  amendment,  or  denunciations  of  some 
adversary.  The  congregations  are  governed  by  a chief 
and  two  elders,  and  they  hold  occasional  conferences  to- 
gether. They  have  no  regular  ministry,  but  all  mem- 
bers. of  both  sexes,  are  required  to  contribute  to  the 
common  edification  by  praying  aloud  in  the  assemblies;  ] 
besides  this,  if  an  Inspired  teacher  is  present,  and  feels 
inspired,  he  preaches;  if  not,  he  reads  some  passages  of 
Scripture,  or  the  recorded  utterances  of  some  Inspired 
members.  They  have  also  a particular  collection  of 
hymns.  Their  principal  festivals  are  love-feasts,  at 
which  preaching  is  generally  part  of  the  order  of  exer- 
cises of  the  day.  These  festivals  are  announced  long 
beforehand,  but  none  take  part  in  them  except  those 
who  arc  personally  invited  to  do  so  by  the  Inspired 
leaders.  The  week  before  a love-feast  is  always  a sea- 
son of  especial  fasting,  penitence,  and  prayer,  and  the 
day  preceding  it  is  still  more  strictly  observed.  Pray- 
er, singing,  prophesying,  and  feet-wasliing  always  pre- 
cede the  love-feast,  at  which  the  persons  invited  partake 
of  cake  and  wine.  Sec  INI.  Giibel,  Gesch.  d.  teuhren  In- 
spirationsgemeinden  von  1688-1854  (in  the  Zeitsclirift  fur 
hist.  Theologie,  1854);  Sclirockh,  Kirchengeschichte  s.  d. 
Reformation,  v iii,  401  sq. ; Sehlegel,  Kirchengeschichte  d. 
18re,t  Jahrhumlerts,  ii,  div.  ii,  1047  sq. ; Baumgarten,  Ge- 
schichte  d.  Relig.  Partkeien,  p.  1048  sq. 

Installare.  See  Installation. 

Installation  (Low  Lat.  in  and  stallnm,  a seat)  is  a 
name  in  some  churches  for  the  ceremonial  act  or  process 
by  which  an  ordained  minister  is  formally  put  into  pos- 
session of  his  office,  and  by  which  he  is  fully  empowered 
not  alone  to  exercise  its  functions,  but  to  enjoy  its  hon- 
ors and  emoluments.  The  ceremonial  form,  as  well  as 
the  name,  differs  according  to  the  office  which  is  con- 
ferred, as  enthronization  for  a bishop,  induction  for  a min- 
ister, etc.  Installation  in  the  English  Church,  however, 
properly  regards  only  the  office  of  a canon  or  prebend- 
ary. The  word  is  also  used  generally  for  a formal  in- 
troduction to  any  office.  “Though  technically  distin- 
guished in  modern  times  from  the  act  of  ordination,  it  is 
virtually  included  in  the  ‘ordination’  services  whenever 
the  minister  is  inducted  into  the  pastoral  office  for  the 
first  time.  But  when,  having  been  previously  ordain- 
ed, he  forms  another  pastoral  connection,  the  public  and 
official  induction  is  termed  simply  an  ‘installation.’” 
See  Chambers,  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Walcott,  Sacred  A rchevol. 
p.  329  (for  the  use  of  the  term  as  used  in  the  English 
Church);  Congregat.  Quarterly,  1868,  p.  340. 

Instinct,  that  power  which  acts  on  and  impels  any 
dreature  to  a particular  manner  of  conduct,  not  by  a 
view  of  the  beneficial  consequences,  but  merely  from  a 
strong  impulse,  supposed  to  be  necessary  in  its  effects, 
and  to  be  given  in  order  to  supply  the  place  of  reason. 
— Henderson’s  Buck,  I'heol.  Diet.  s.  v. 

Institutio  is  one  of  the  names  by  which  the  ad- 
dresses on  the  Catechism  or  the  catechetical  instruction 
was  designated  in  the  Christian  Church  after  the  time 
of  Charlemagne.  See  Catechism. 

Institution,  an  established  custom  or  law ; a pre- 
cept, maxim,  or  principle.  Institutions  may  be  consid- 
ered as  positive,  moral,  .and  human.  1.  Those  are  called 
positive  institutions  or  precepts  which  are  not  founded 
upon  any  reasons  known  to  those  to  whom  they  are 
given,  or  discoverable  by  them,  but  which  are  observed 
merely  because  some  superior  has  commanded  them.  2. 
Moral  are  those,  the  reasons  of  which  we  see,  and  the 
duties  of  which  arise  out  of  the  nature  of  the  case  itself, 
prior  to  external  command.  3.  Human  are  generally 
applied  to  those  inventions  of  men,  or  means  of  honor- 
ing God,  which  are  not  appointed  by  him,  and  which 
are  numerous  in  the  Church  of  Rome,  and  too  many  of 
them  in  Protestant  churches.  See  Butler’s  A nalogy,  p. 


214;  Doddridge’s  Led.  lect.  158;  Robinson’s  Claude,  i, 
217 ; ii,  258;  Burroughs,  Disc,  on  Positive  Institutions ; 
I>p.  lloadlev’s  Plain  .4  ceount,  p.  3 ; Buck,  Theol.  Diet.  s.  v. 

INSTITUTION,  in  Church  law,  means  the  final  and 
authoritative  appointment  to  a church  benefiee — more 
especially  a bishopric — by  the  person  with  whom  such 
right  of  appointment  ultimately  rests.  Thus,  in  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church — even  after  the  election  of  a 
bishop  by  the  chapter,  or  his  nomination  by  the  crown, 
when  that  right  belongs  to  the  crown — it  is  only  the 
pope  who  confers  institution.  In  English  usage,  insti- 
tution is  a conveyance  of  the  cure  of  souls  by  the  bish- 
op, who,  or  tvhosc  deputy,  reads  the  words  of  the  insti- 
tution, while  the  clerk  kneels.  The  institution  vests 
the  benefice  in  the  clerk,  for  the  purpose  of  spiritual 
duty,  who  thereupon  becomes  entitled  to  the  profits 
thereof.  But  the  title  is  not  complete  till  induction  (q. 
v.). — Chambers,  Cyelopiedia,  s.  v. 

Institution  of  a Christian  Man,  also  called 
The  Bishop's  Booh,  is  the  name  of  a book  containing  an 
exposition  of  the  Apostles’  Creed,  the  Seven  Sacraments, 
the  Ten  Commandments,  the  Lord’s  Prayer,  the  Ave 
Maria,  Justification,  and  Purgatory,  which  was  drawn 
up  by  a committee  of  prelates  and  divines  of  the  Eng- 
lish Church  in  1537,  “ for  a direction  for  the  bishops  and 
clergy,”  and  to  be  “an  authoritative  explanation  of  the 
doctrine  of  faith  and  manners,”  and  a sort  of  standard 
for  the  desk  and  the  pulpit,  or,  as  it  itself  expresses  it, 
for  the  clergy  “to  govern  themselves  in  the  instruction 
of  their  flocks  by  this  rule.”  Some  say  that  Stephen 
Povnct,  bishop  of  Winchester,  wrote  the  book  himself, 
and  that  a committee  of  prelates  and  divines  gave  it 
their  sanction.  It  was  called  forth  at  the  time  of  the 
early  reformatory  ecclesiastical  movements  in  England 
during  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  At  the  time  of  the 
publication  of  the  “ Institution  of  a Christian  Man” 
(printed  in  Formularies  of  Faith  put  forth  by  authority 
during  the  Reign  of  Henry  VIII,  Oxf.  1825),  the  Eng- 
lish Church  had  become  alienated  from  the  Church  of 
Rome;  at  least  king  llenry  bad  laid  claim  to  his  sover- 
eignty over  the  Church  in  his  dominions,  which  an 
act  of  Parliament  in  1533  had  secured  him,  and,  with 
few  dissentient  voices,  the  clergy  of  the  land  had  sec- 
onded the  opinion  of  Parliament.  In  1536  a convoca- 
tion, called  “ the  Southern  Convocation.”  published  a 
manifesto,  entitled  “Articles  to  stablyshe  Christen  quiet- 
ness, and  unitee  amonge  us,  and  to  avoyde  contentious  opin- 
ions," which  are  generally  regarded  as  the  starting-point 
of  the  English  Reformation.  “ But,  upon  the  whole,  these 
articles  breathed  rather  the  animus  of  the  Middle  Ages. 
Thus  they  took,  on  the  doctrine  of  justification,  a course 
midway  between  the  Romanists  and  the  Lutherans. 
They  had  also  paid  reverence  to  some  of  the  Romish  su- 
perstitions, as  the  use  of  images,  invocation  of  saints,  and 
still  held  to  the  doctrine  of  purgatory,  which  was  at  this 
time  beginning  to  encounter  a determined  opposition 
from  the  more  radical  reformers.  To  represent  more 
truly  the  real  desires  and  opinions  of  the  English  Church, 
the  Bishops’  Book  was  launched.  It  discussed  at  length 
the  Romish  superstitions  which  the  .Southern  Convoca- 
tion had  sanctioned,  and  declared  against  a further  ad- 
herence to  them  by  the  English  people.  They  also 
held  that  the  fabric  of  the  papal  monarchy  was  alto- 
gether human  ; that  its  growth  was  traceable  partly  to 
the  favor  and  indulgence  of  the  Roman  emperors,  and 
partly  to  ambitious  artifices  of  the  popes  themselves; 
that  just  as  men  originally  made  and  sanctioned  it,  so 
might  they,  if  occasion  should  arise,  withdraw  from  it 
their  confidence,  and  thus  reoccupv  the  ground  on  which 
all  Christians  must  have  stood  anterior  to  the  Middle 
Ages.”  See  Hardwick,  Reformation,  p.  202 ; Collier,  Ec- 
cles.  Hist,  of  England,  anno  1537. 

Instruction.  See  Education. 

Instrument  (*'^2,  heli’,  Ii ic\ov,  general  names  for 
any  implement,  vessel,  etc.).  See  Music;  Armor. 

Instrumental  Music.  See  Music. 


618 


INTERCESSION 


INSTRUMENTS!  PACIS 

Instruraentum  pacis.  At  the  pax  tecum  (q.  v.) 
in  sacred  mass,  the  celebrant  of  the  mass  gives  to  the 
deacon  ihe  kiss  of  peace,  which  the  latter  gives  to  the 
subdeacon.  and  then  it  is  transmitted  successively  to  the 
other  inferior  clergy  present.  Since  Innocent  Ill’s  time 
it  is  customary  to  use  for  this  purpose  an  image  of  the 
crucified  Christ,  which  is  handed  to  the  different  cler- 
gy for  the  purpose  of  bestowing  upon  it  the  kiss  in  token 
of  brotherly  love  (such  are  also  used  at  the  coronation 
of  1 Ionian  Catholic  princes),  and  the  image  is  therefore 
called  instrumentum  pacis , “ the  instrument  of  peace.” 
See  Theol.  Vniv.  Lex.  ii,  410. 

Insufflation.  See  Exorcist. 

Insulani  ( islanders ) is  an  old  name  by  which  the 
monks  who  belonged  to  the  famous  monastery  in  the 
island  of  Lewis  were  known. 

Insult,  or  such  a treatment  of  another,  in  word  or 
deed,  as  to  express  contempt,  is  not  definitely  taken  cog- 
nizance of  in  the  Mosaic  law;  only  the  reviling  of  su- 
periors is  forbidden  (Exocl.  xxii,  28),  yet  without  any 
special  penalty  attached.  The  severity,  however,  with 
which  disrespect  towards  sacred  persons  was  punished 
appears  from  2 Kings  ii,  22  sq.  There  also  occurs  men- 
tion (l*sa.  xxii,  8;  xxxviii,2l;  Lam.ii,lo;  Matt.xxvii, 
39)  of  gestures  of  malicious  mockery  (wagging  the  head, 
-Si  Insult  bv  abusive  words  (Matt,  v,  22, 

paK  i ; see  H.vc.v)  or  stroke  (smiting  on  the  cheek,  Job 
xvi,  10;  Matt,  v, 39;  John  xviii,22;  xix,8;  pulling  the 
ears,  spitting  upon,  Matt,  xxvii,  30,  etc.)  was,  in  later 
law,  punished  by  fine  (Mishna,  Baba  Kammer , viii,  G; 
comp.  Matt,  v,  22),  as  also  in  Roman  law.  P'or  a mark- 
ed public  affront  which  Ilerocl  Agrippa  I received  at  Al- 
exandria, see  l’hilo,  ii, 522.— Winer,  i,  151.  See  Cour- 
tesy. 

Intention,  “a  deliberate  notion  of  the  will  by 
which  it  is  supposed  to  accomplish  a certain  act : first, 
taking  in  merely  the  act;  secondly,  taking  in  also  the 
consequences  of  the  act.  An  action  may  be  done  wdth 
a good  intention,  and  may  produce  bad  results;  or  it 
may  oe  done  with  a good  intention,  and  produce  good 
results.  It  may  also  be  done  with  an  evil  intention, 
and  yet  good  results  may  follow ; or  with  an  evil  inten- 
tion. producing  evil  results.  As  a question  of  morals, 
therefore,  the  intention  with  which  anything  is  done 
really  determines  the  quality  of  the  action  as  regards 
the  person  who  does  it.  It  is  not  possible  that  it  should 
always  determine  the  course  of  social  policy  in  the  mat- 
ter of  rewards  or  punishments;  but  it  may  mostly  de- 
termine the  verdict  of  conscience  respecting  the  good  or 
evil  of  an  act,  anil  has  doubtless  a large  place  in  the  di- 
vine judgment  of  them.  No  intention  can  he  good, 
however,  which  purposes  the  doing  of  an  evil  action, 
although  with  the  object  of  securing  good  results;  nor 
any  which  does  a good  action  with  the  object  of  pro- 
ducing evil  results.”  See  Ernies ; Moral  Sense. 

In  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  the  intention  of  the 
priest,  is  held  to  be  essential  to  the  valid  celebration  of 
the  sacraments.  This  the  Council  of  Trent  decreed  in 
its  tlth  canon  (Sess.  vii) : “ If  any  one  shall  sav  that  in 
ministers,  while  they  effect  and  confer  the  sacraments 
there  is  not  required  the  intention  at  least  of  doing  what 
the  < h u rch  does,  let  him  be  anathema.”  The  same  prin- 
ciple, in  the  main,  was  advocated  amt  set  forth  by  popes 
Martin  \ and  Eugenius  IV  in  the  early  part  of  the  last 
century.  So  abused  has  this  principle  gcnerallv  become 
in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  that  by  its  consequences 
It  must  be  declared  to  he  greatly  detrimental  to  the 
cause  ol  the  Christian  religion.  For  inasmuch  as  the 
insincerity  of  the  actor  reduces  the  act  to  a mockery 
and  a sinful  trifling  with  sacred  things,  the  Church  of 
Rome,  by  this  decision,  “exposes  the  laity  to  doubt, 
hesitation,  and  insecurity  whenever  they  receive  a sac- 
rament at  the  hand  of  a priest  in  whose  piotv  and  sin- 
cerity they  have  not  full  confidence.  If  a wicked  priest 
tor  instance,  should  baptize  a child  without  an  inward 
tntenium  to  baptize  him,  it  would  follow  that  the  bap- 


tism was  null  and  void  for  want  of  the  intention.”  The 
Church  of  England,  to  repudiate  this  perverse  doctrine, 
in  its  26th  Article  of  Religion,  declares,  therefore,  that 
the  unworthiness  of  ministers  does  not  hinder  the  effect 
of  sacraments,  “ forasmuch  as  they  do  not  the  same  in 
their  own  name,  but  in  Christ's,  and  do  minister  by  his 
commission,  [and  therefore]  we  may  use  their  ministry 
both  in  hearing  the  word  of  God  and  in  receiving  the 
sacraments.  Neither  is  the  effect  of  Christ’s  ordinance 
taken  away  by  their  wickedness,  nor  the  grace  of  God’s 
gifts  diminished  from  such  as  by  faith,  and  rightly,  do 
receive  the  sacraments  ministered  unto  them,  which  be 
effectual  because  of  Christ’s  institution  and  promise,  al- 
though they  be  ministered  by  evil  men.”  See  Staun- 
ton, Eccles.  Did.  p.  398 ; Blunt,  Theol.  Diet,  i,  351 ; and, 
for  a moderate  Roman  account  of  Intention,  Liebermann, 
Inst  it.  Theol.  (ed.  1861),  ii,  386  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Intercalary  Fruits  is  a term  in  the  Roman  Cath- 
olic Church  for  the  revenues  of  an  ecclesiastical  benefice 
accruing  during  a vacancy.  In  the  xxivth  Sess.  of  the 
Council  of  Trent  (c.  18,  l)e  Reform.;  c.  1 and  3,  X.  De 
prabend.  et  dignitt.)  it  was  decreed  that  whatever  the 
deceased  ecclesiastic  had  really  earned  was  a part  of  the 
property  of  the  deceased,  but  that  the  remainder  should 
go  either  to  his  successor  in  office  or  to  the  fabrica  ec~ 
clesm,  or  to  him  who  is  to  appoint  the  successor,  ami  to 
provide  in  the  interim.  It  is  frequently  the  case  that 
these  funds  are  transferred  to  societies  of  widows  and 
orphans,  or  are  used  for  some  benevolent  objects  in  the 
Church.  See  Wetzer  und  Welle,  Kirchen-Lex.  v,  673 ; 
Aschbach,  Kirchen-Lex.  iii,  498;  Theol.  Unit'.  Lex.  ii, 
410. 

Intercalary  Month.  See  Calendar. 

Intercession  tvrtv^ic)  is  the  act  of  inter- 
position in  behalf  of  another,  to  plead  for  him  (Isa.  liii, 
12;  lix,  16;  1 Tim.  ii,  1).  See  Advocate. 

INTERCESSION  OF  CHRIST.  This  refers,  in  a 
general  sense,  to  any  aid  which  he,  as  perpetual  Iligli- 
priest,  extends  to  those  who  approach  God  confiding  in 
him  (Heb.  iv,  16;  vii,  25-27).  lie  is  also  represented 
as  offering  up  the  prayers  and  praises  of  his  people, 
which  become  acceptable  to  God  through  him  (Heb. 
xiii,  15;  1 Peter  ii,  5;  Rev.  viii,  3).  Of  the  ineercession 
of  Christ  we  may  observe  that  it  is  righteous,  for  it  is 
founded  upon  justice  and  truth  (Heb.  vii,  26:  1 John  iii, 
5),  compassionate  (Heb.  ii,  17 ; v,  8),  perpetual  (Heb. 
vii,  25),  and  efficacious  (1  John  ii,  1).  See  Mediator. 

Intercession,  in  the  sense  of  supplication,  was  not  ap- 
propriate to  the  office  of  the  Hebrew  high-priest;  he 
was  the  presenter  of  sacrifices  on  account  of  sins,  and 
made  intercession  or  atonement  by  sprinkling  the  blood 
of  victims  before  Jehovah  : this  gave,  as  it  were,  a voice 
to  the  blood.  Hence,  if  we  attach  a special  idea  to  the 
term  “intercession,”  as  applied  to  the  work  of  our  glori- 
ous High-priest,  may  we  not  say  that  it  is  equivalent 
to  propitiation  or  atonement  ? In  the  holiest  of  all, 
“ the  blood  of  Jesus  speaketli”  (Heb.  xii,  24  J.  The  dig- 
nity and  merit,  power  and  authority  of  the  Messiah,  in 
his  exalted  state,  imply  a continued  presentation  of  his 
obedience  and  sacrifice  as  ever  .valid  and  efficacious  for 
the  pardon  ami  acceptance,  the  perfect  holiness  and 
eternal  happiness,  of  all  who  arc  truly  penitent,  believ- 
ing, and  obedient.  Hence  his  intercession,  or  his  acting 
as  high-priest  in  the  heavenly  world,  was  represented 
by  the  Hebrew  high-priest’s  entering  into  the  most 
holy  place,  on  the  annual  day  of  atonement,  with  the 
fragrant  incense  burning,  ami  with  the  sacrificial  blood 
which  he  was  to  sprinkle  upon  the  mercy-seat,  over  the 
ark  of  the  covenant,  and  before  the  awful  symbols  of 
Jehovah’s  presence.  See  High-priest. 

“The  need  of  an  intercessor  arose  from  the  loss  of 
the  right  of  communion  with  God,  of  which  Adam  was 
deprived  when  he  sinned.  Before  the  fall,  Adam  was 
the  high-priest  of  all  creation,  and,  as  such,  privileged  to 
hold  free  intercourse  with  God ; and  this  privilege,  lost 
by  Adam,  was  restored  in  Christ.  Until  the  fidness  of 


INTERCESSORES 


619 


INTERDICT 


time  came  a temporary  provision  was  made  for  man’s 
acceptance  with  God  in  the  sacrifices  of  the  patriarchal 
age,  and  the  ceremonies  of  the  Mosaic  ritual ; but  all 
these  were  shadows  of  the  priestly  function  of  the  Son 
of  God,  which  commenced  from  the  time  when  he  of- 
fered up  himself  as  a sacrifice  on  the  cross.  The  inter- 
cession of  Christ  is  the  exercise  of  his  priestly  office, 
which  is  carried  on  continually  in  heaven  (Korn,  viii, 
34).  He  was  fitted  to  become  our  high-priest  by  the 
union  of  his  divine  and  human  natures  (Ileb.  vii,  25; 
Isa.  liii,  12).  His  manhood  enables  him  to  plead  on  our 
behalf  as  the  representative  of  human  nature,  and  so  to 
sympathize  with  those  needs  and  those  sorrows  which 
require  his  intercessions,  that  he  offers  them  up  as  one 
most  deeply  interested  in  our  welfare  (Ileb. iv,  15).  His 
priesthood,  moreover,  requires  an  offering,  and  it  is  still 
his  human  nature  which  furnishes  both  the  victim  and 
the  priest.  His  Godhead  renders  that  sacrifice  an  in- 
valuable offering,  and  his  intercession  all-effectual  (Ileb. 
ix,  14)”  (Blunt,  Diet.  s.  v.). 

INTERCESSION  OF  THE  HOLY  GHOST.  Man 
intercedes  with  man,  sometimes  to  procure  an  advan- 
tage to  himself,  sometimes  as  a mediator  to  benefit  an- 
other; he  may  be  said  to  intercede  for  another  when  he 
puts  words  into  the  suppliant’s  mouth,  and  directs  and 
prompts  him  to  say  what  otherwise  he  would  be  unable 
to  say,  or  to  say  in  a more  persuasive  manner  what  he 
might  intend  to  say.  The  intercession  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  (Rom.  viii,  20)  is  easily  illustrated  by  this  adap- 
tation of  the  term.  See  Pakackete  ; Invocation. 

INTERCESSION  OF  SAINTS.  In  addition  to  the 
intercessions  of  Christ,  and,  indeed,  that  of  angels  like- 
wise, Roman  Catholics  believe  in  the  efficacy  of  the  in- 
tercession of  the  Virgin  and  the  saints,  who,  however,  as 
they  state,  do  not  directly  intercede  for  men  with  God, 
but  with  the  Saviour,  the  sinless  One,  who  alone  has  the 
ear  of  the  King  of  the  universe.  See  Invocation  of 
Saints. 

Intercessdres  or  InterveBtcres  w as  the  name 
of  officers  peculiar  to  the  African  Church,  who  acted  as 
temporary  incumbents  of  a vacant  bishopric,  and  for  the 
time  being  performed  the  episcopal  functions.  It  was 
their  duty  to  take  measures  for  the  immediate  appoint- 
ment of  a bishop.  To  prevent  abuses,  which  had  be- 
come prevalent  by  either  choosing  incompetent  success- 
ors or  by  protracting  the  election  of  a new  prelate,  a 
Council  of  Carthage  in  401  forbade  the  tenure  to  con- 
tinue longer  than  one  year,  and  also  any  succession  to 
the  temporary  occupant.  Sec  Farrar,  TheoL  Diet.  s.  v. ; 
Walcott,  Sacred  A rchaology,  s.  v. ; Riddle,  Christ.  A ntiq. 
p.  223. 

Interdict  ( interdictnm , sc.  celebrationis  divini  offi- 
cii, a prohibition  of  religious  offices)  is  an  ecclesiastical 
censure  or  penalty  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  con- 
sisting in  the  withdrawal  of  the  administration  of  certain 
sacraments,  of  the  celebration  of  public  worship,  and  of 
the  solemn  burial  service.  There  are  three  kinds  of  in- 
terdicts: local,  which  affect  a particular  place,  and  thus 
comprehend  all, without  distinction,  who  reside  therein; 
jxrsonal,  which  only  affect  a person  or  persons,  and 
which  reach  this  person  or  persons,  and  these  alone,  no 
matter  where  found;  and  mixed,  which  affect  both  a 
place  and  its  inhabitants,  so  that  the  latter  would  be 
bound  bv  the  interdict  even  outside  of  its  purely  local 
limits.  But,  as  the  interdict  is  oftentimes  inflicted  on 
the  clergy  alone,  it  is  always  strictly  interpreted,  so 
that  one  imposed  on  a parish,  etc.,  does  not  take  effect 
also  on  the  clergy,  and  vice  versa  (compare  Ferraris,  art. 
ii,  v).  The  interdict,  like  the  ban  (q.  v.),  may  be  in- 
flicted by  legal  order  ( interdiction  a jinx'),  or  procured 
by  ecclesiastical  judges  (ab  homine).  The  reasons  for 
inflicting  this  ecclesiastical  penalty  are  various;  most 
generally  they  are  the  abolition  of  Church  immunities, 
disrespect  tow-ards  ecclesiastical  authority  or  commands, 
and  the  effects  are  generally  the  prohibition  of  adminis- 
tering the  sacraments,  of  holding  public  worship,  and 


I the  denial  of  Christian  burial ; yet  various  modifications 
j have  been  frequent.  Thus  Alexander  III  permitted  in 
1173  the  administration  of  the  sacrament  of  baptism  to 
children,  and  that  of  penitence  to  the  dying  (c.  11,  X. 
De  spousal ibus,  iv,  1 ; comp.  c.  11,  X.  De  pcenit.  et  remiss. 
v,  38;  c.  24,  De  sententia  excomm.  vi;  v,  11).  Innocent 
III  allowed  confirmation  and  preaching  (c.  43,  X.  De 
sent,  excomm.  v,  30,  a.  1208),  as  also  penitence,  with  some 
restrictions  (e.  11,  X.  De  pcenit.  v,  38,  a.  1214;  comp.  c. 
24,  De  sent,  excomm.  in  vi),  the  silent  burial  of  the  elcr- 
, gv  (c.  11,  X.  cit.  v,  38_),  and  to  convents  the  observance 
of  the  canonical  hours,  without  singing,  and  the  reading 
of  a low  mass,  which  was  in  the  following  year  extend- 
ed also  to  the  bishops  (c.  25,  X.  De  privilegiis,  v,  33,  a. 
1215).  But  to  this  "was  appended  the  condition  that 
the  parties  under  excommunication  or  interdict  should 
not  be  present,  that  the  doors  of  the  churches  should 
remain  locked,  and  no  bells  be  allowed  to  ring.  Boni- 
face VIII  went  further,  and  allowed  the  celebration  of 
public  worship  with  open  doors,  ringing  of  bells,  and  in 
the  presence  of  the  excommunicated  parties  on  the  oc- 
casions of  the  Nativity,  Easter,  Pentecost,  and  the  As- 
cension of  the  Virgin.  Yet  such  of  the  interdicted  and 
excommunicated  as  did  not  come  to  the  altar  were  to  be 
excluded  (c.  24,  De  sent,  excomm.  in  vi  [v,  11]).  Martin 
V and  Eugene  IV  extended  this  to  the  whole  octave  of 
the  Corpus  Christi  (Const.  Ineffiabile,  an.  1429,  and  Const. 
Dxcellentissimnm,  an.  1433,  in  Dollar.  Magnum,  i,  308, 
323);  and  Leo  X to  the  octave  of  the  festival  of  the 
Holy  Conception.  There  were,  moreover,  other  special 
regulations  made  for  the  benefit  of  the  Franciscans  and 
other  orders  of  monks  (Ferraris,  art.  vi,  no.  15).  In  the 
xxvth  Session  of  the  Council  of  Trent  (cap.  12,  De  regu- 
laribus ) it  was  decided  that  the  regulars  generally  were 
to  observe  the  interdict,  as  had  already  been  command- 
ed by  Clement  V (c.  1,  Clem.  De  sent,  excomm.  v,  10, 
Concil.  Vienn.  1311). 

The  right  of  pronouncing  the  interdict  is  vested  in 
the  pope,  the  provincial  synod,  the  bishop,  with  the  as- 
I sent  of  the  chapter,  and  even  without  it  (c.  2,  X.  De  his 
qua  font  a majori  parte  cajrituH,  iii,  11,  Coelestin  III, 
an.  1 190 ; Clem.  1,  De  sent.  exc.  cit.  Cone.  Trid.  cit.  See 
Gonzalez  Tellez,  c.  5,  X.  De  consuet.  no.  4).  The  inter- 
dict can  be  withdrawn  by  any  confessor  when  it  is  par- 
ticular and  personal,  not  reserved,  but  applying  to  minor 
points  (c.  29,  X.  De  sent.  exc.  v,  39,  Innocent  III,  anno 
1199);  other  interdicts  are  to  be  withdrawn  by  those 
who  pronounced  them,  their  successors,  delegates,  or 
superiors  (see  Ferraris,  article  viii).  The  fundamenral 
principles  of  the  interdict  are  yet  in  vigor  in  the  Roman 
Church  (see  Benedict  XIV,  De  synod,  dioec.  lib.  x,  cap. 
1,  § 3 sq.),  but  it  has  not  been  exercised  to  its  full  ex- 
tent since  the  17tli  century.  As  late  as  1606  Paul  V 
pronounced  it  against  the  Republic  of  Venice  (see  Rieg- 
ger,  Diss.  de  panitentiis  et  prtnis  ecc/.  Vienn.  1772,  § 76; 
and  Schmidt,  Thesaurus  juris  eccl.  vii,  172),  and  partic- 
ular interdicts  are  still  in  frequent  use,  as,  for  instance, 
the  interdictio  ingressus  in  ecclesiam,  the  defense  for  lay- 
men to  enter  the  Church  (c.  48,  X.  De  sent,  excomm.  v, 
39,  Innocent  III,  an.  1215;  c.  20,  eod.  in  vi ; v,  11,  Bon- 
iface VIII,  etc.).  The  Council  of  Trent  (Sess.  vi,  cap.  1, 
in  jin.  de  re/I)  pronounced  this  punishment  against  the 
bishops  and  archbishops  who  neglected  the  command 
to  reside  in  their  diocese.  To  it  belongs  also  the  ctssa- 
tio  a dirinis,  touching  the  use  of  the  bells  and  organ 
(c.  55,  X.  De  appel/at.  ii,  28,  Innocent  III,  an.  1213;  c. 
13,  § 1,  X.  De  officio  judieis  ord.  i,  31,  Innocent  III,  an. 
1215;  c.  2,  eod.  in  vi,  and  i,  16,  Gregor.  X,  an.  1274 ; c. 
8,  eod.  Bonifac.  VIII),  as  a public  mourning  of  the  Church 
(c.  18,  De  sent,  excomm.  in  vi,  1,  ib.  Bonifac.  VIII). 

History. — The  time  when  the  interdict  was  first  in- 
troduced into  the  Church  is  not  generally  known;  but 
it  is  usually  traced  to  the  early  discipline  of  public 
penance,  “ by  which  penitents  were  for  a time  debarred 
from  the  privilege  of  presence  at  the  celebration  of  the 
Eucharist.”  Instances  of  it  are  met  with  in  very  early 
times  (see  e.  8,  Can.  v,  qu.  vi  [ Cone.  Agath.  anno  506], 


INTEREST 


620 


INTERIM 


ancl  10,  11,  Can.  xvii,  qu.  iv  [Penit.  Pom.],  etc.  Comp, 
also  Gonzalez  Tellez,  cap.  5,  X.  Ik  consuet.  i,  4,  no.  19). 
Hut  it  was  not.  until  the  Middle  Ages,  the  days  of  super- 
stition, when  the  mind  was  in  a condition  difficult  for 
us  of  modern  ideas  fully  to  realize  or  to  understand,  that 
this  ecclesiastical  punishment  came  into  general  use  as 
a weapon  of  the  Church  against  all  ecclesiastical  and 
civil  inroads.  In  1125  Ivo  of  Chartres  calls  it  yet 
(Epist.  94)  “ remedium  insolitum,  ob  snam  nimirum 
novitatem;”  and  at  the  Synod  of  Limoges  in  1301,  the 
following  resolution  was  passed  at  the  second  session: 
“ Nisi  de  pace  acquieverint,  ligate  onniem  terram  Le- 
movicensem  publica  excommunicatione : eo  videlicet 
niodo,  ut  nemo,  nisi  clericns,  aut  pauper  mendicans,  aut 
peregrimis  advcniens,  aut  infans  a bimatu  et  infra  in 
toto  Leraovicino  sepeliatur,  nec  in  alinm  episcopatum 
ad  sepeliendum  portetur.  Divinum  officium  per  omnes 
ecclesias  latenter  agatur,  et  baptismus  petentibns  tribu- 
atur.  Circa  horam  tertiam  signa  sonent  in  ecclesiis  I 
omnibus,  et  omnes  proni  in  faciera  preces  pro  tribulatio- 
ne  ct  pace  fundant.  Pcenitcntia  et  viaticum  in  exitu  ( 
mortis  tribuatur.  Altaria  per  omnes  ecclesias,  sicut  in 
Farasceve,  nudentur;  et  cruces  et  ornamenta  abscon- 
d ant  nr,  quia  siguum  iuctus  et  tristitine  omnibus  est.  Ad 
missas  tan  turn,  quas  unusquisqiie  sacerdotnm  januis  ec- 
clesiarum  obscratis  fecerit,  altaria  induantur,  et  iternm 
post  missas  nudentur.  Nemo  in  ipsa  excommunicatione 
uxorcm  ducat.  Nemo  alteri  osculum  det,  nemo  clcrico- 
rum  aut  laicorum,  vel  habitantium  vel  transeuntium,  in 
toto  Lemoviciuo  carnem  comedat,  neque  alios  cibos, 
quam  illos,  quibus  in  Quadragesima  vesci  licitum  est. 
Nemo  clericorum  aut  laicorum  toinleatur,  neque  radatur, 
quousque  districti  principes,  capita  populorum,  per  om- 
nia sancto  obediant  concilio”  (Mansi,  Coll.  Conciliorum , 
xix,  541 ; Du  Fresne,  s.  v.  Interdictum). 

The  most  remarkable  of  the  interdicts  since  the  11th 
century  were  those  laid  upon  Scotland  in  1180  by  Alex- 
ander III : on  Poland  by  Gregory  ATI,  on  occasion  of 
the  murder  of  Stanislaus  at  the  altar  in  1073;  by  Inno- 
cent III  on  France,  under  Philippe  Augustus,  in  1200; 
and  on  England  under  .John  in  1209.  See  Neamler,  Ch. 

I list,  iii,  451 ; Alilman,  Latin  Christianity  (see  Index); 
Piddle,  History  of  the  Papacy , ii,  83  sq„  et  al.;  Janus, 
Pope  and  Council,  p.  289;  lierzog,  Real-EncyMop.  vi, 
705  sq. ; Chambers,  Cyclopedia,  v,  605.  (J.  H.  AV.) 

Interest.  See  Usury. 

Interim,  the  name  of  certain  formularies  or  confes- 
sions of  faith  obtruded  upon  the  Reformers  by  the  em- 
peror Charles  A . 1 hey  were  so  called  because  they 

were  only  to  take  place  in  the  interim,  till  a general  coun- 
cil should  decide  all  the  points  in  question  between  the 
Protestants  and  Catholics.  There  were  three  of  such  for- 
mularies. 

I.  I nii  Interim  of  R.vtishon  (Peyensburq).  Nu- 
merous conferences  had  been  held  by  both  parties,  i.  e. 
the  Romanists  and  the  Protestants,  after  the  formation  of 
the  “ League  of  Smalkald”  (1531),  to  bring  about  a rec- 
onciliation. As  a liberal  Roman  Catholic  writer  of  our 
own  clays  (Janus,  Pope  and  Council,  p.  369)  says,  “It 
was  long  before  men  (in  Germany  and  generally  on  this 
side  of  the  Alps)  grasped  the  idea  of  the  breach  of  Church 
communion  becoming  permanent.  The  general  feeling 
was  still  so  far  Clmrch-like  that  a really  free  council,  in- 
dependent of  papal  control,  was  confidently  looked  to  for 
at  once  purifying  and  uniting  the  Church,  though,  of 
courso,  views  differed  as  to  the  conditions  of  reunion, 
according  to  personal  position  and  national  sentiment.” 
A conference  was  finally  appointed  and  held  at  AVorms, 
under  the  leadership  of  Melanethon  and  Erkins,  accord- 
ing to  appointment,  by  Charles  A',  and  afterwards  re- 
moved to  Ratisbon,  where  the  diet  met  (1541).  Here1 
Ptlug  and  Gropper  figured  prominently  by  the  side  of 
Lckiiis  on  the  Roman  Catholic  side,  and  Bucer  and  Pis- 
torms  by  the  side  of  Melanethon.  The  Roman  Catho-  I 
lies  now  conceded  that  the  communion  of  both  kinds 
could  be  administered  to  all;  that  the  question  of  sacer-  I 
dotal  celibacy  was  of  no  vital  importance,  etc.;  but  the 


I Protestants  were  nevertheless  afraid  of  some  hidden  plan, 
and  only  an  apparent  reconciliation  was  effected:  it  re- 
! ally  settled  no  question  at  all,  satisfied  neither  party,  and 
finally,  as  Luther  had  predicted  before  the  convocation, 
led  only  afterwards  to  much  misunderstanding  and  mu- 
tual recrimination.  “ * Let  them  go  on,’  said  Luther, 
referring  to  the  schemes  of  those  who  thought  that  the 
differences  between  Roman  Catholics  and  Protestants 
might  be  made  up  by  such  conferences,  ‘we  shall  not 
envy  the  success  of  their  labors;  they  will  be  the  first 
who  could  ever  convert  the  devil  and  reconcile  him  to 
Christ.  . . . The  sceptre  of  the  Lord  admits  of  no  bend- 
i ing  and  joining,  but  must  remain  straight  and  un- 
changed, the  rule  of  faith  and  practice.’  ” Charles  A",  de- 
termined to  secure  the  ratification  of  the  points  of  agree- 
' ment  entered  into  at  Ratisbon  by  a national  council, 
forbade  the  Protestants  to  argue,  in  the  mean  time,  on 
the  controverted  points,  or  to  dispose  in  any  way  of  the 
property  of  the  churches.  They  protested,  however, 
and  went  on,  regardless  of  the  interim. 

II.  The  Augsburg  Interim.  After  the  duke  of 
Alva,  through  the  treachery  of  Maurice  of  Saxony, 
had  broken  the  power  of  the  Protestants  at  the  battle 
of  Miihlberg,  and,  by  the  overthrow  of  the  Smalkahl 
league,  the  emperor  had  brought  them  helpless  at  his 
feet,  Charles  X,  seeing  that  the  pope  had  not  acted 
in  accordance  with  his  wishes  at  the  Council  of  Trent, 
decided  to  attempt  by  still  other  conferences  to  reunite 
the  two  contending  parties,  or  at  least  “to  keep  matters 
quiet  until  the  final  verdict  of  that  oecumenical  council 
which  constantly  vanished  in  the  distance.”  For  that 
purpose  he  called  the  three  divines,  viz.  Julius  Pfiug, 
bishop  of  Naumburg;  Alicbael  Ilelding,  titular  bishop  of 
Sidon ; and  the  Protestant  John  Agricola,  preacher  to 
the  elector  of  Brandenburg,  to  agree  upon  a series  of  ar- 
ticles concerning  the  points  of  religion  in  dispute  be- 
tween the  Catholics  and  Protestants.  The  controverted 
points  were,  the  state  of  Adam  before  and  after  his  fall; 
the  redemption  of  mankind  by  Jesus  Christ;  the  justifi- 
cation of  sinners;  charity  and  good  works;  the  confi- 
dence we  ought  to  have  in  God ; that  our  sins  are  re- 
mitted; the  Church  and  its  true  marks,  its  power,  its 
authority,  and  ministers;  the  pope  and  bishops,  the 
sacraments;  the  mass;  the  commemoration  of  saints; 
their  intercession,  and  prayers  for  the  dead.  The  result 
of  their  discussions  was  the  agreement  drawn  up  in 
twenty-six  articles.  These  the  emperor  submitted  to 
the  pope  for  his  approbation,  and  sent  copies  of  them 
also  to  the  electors  of  Saxony  and  of  Brandenburg,  and 
to  other  evangelical  princes.  But  both  the  pope  and 
the  German  theologians  refused  to  adhere  to  them. 
The  emperor  pext  had  them  revised  by  two  Dominican 
monks,  who  made  several  alterations,  and  they  were 
then  promulgated  as  an  imperial  constitution,  called  the 
“Interim,”  wherein  he  declared  that  “it  was  his  will 
that  all  his  Catholic  dominions  should,  for  the  future,  in- 
violably observe  the  customs,  statutes,  and  ordinances 
of  the  universal  Church;  and  that  those  who  had  sep- 
arated themselves  from  it  should  either  reunite  them- 
selves to  it, or  at  least  conform  to  this  constitution;  ana 
that,  all  should  quietly  expect  the  decisions  of  the  gen- 
eral council;”  and  it  was  published  in  the  diet  of  Augs- 
burg, May  15, 1548.  To  the  Protestant  clergy  it  grant- 
ed, for  the  time  being,  the  right  of  the  matrimonial 
state,  and  to  the  Reformed  laity  communion  of  both 
kinds.  It  was  truly  a standard  of  faith  put  forth  by  the 
emperor  independent  of  Rome,  as  the  pope  refused  to 
sanction  it;  and  in  the  face  of  the  bitter  complaints  that 
came  to  him  that  the  power  and  property  of  the  Church 
should  be  left  in  the  hands  of  its  present  possessors,  he 
showed  the  pope  that  he  too,  like  Ilenty  AT1I,  could 
regulate  the'  consciences  of  his  subjects,  and  prescribe 
their  religious  faith.  The  elector  of  Mentz,  quite  con- 
trary to  the  wishes  of  the  other  members  of  the  Diet, 
and  of  the  people  there  represented,  announced  the  ac- 
ceptance of  the  interim  by  the  states,  and  it  was  conse- 
quently declared  law,  and  printed  in  Latin  and  in  Ger- 


INTERIM 


G21 


INTERMEDIATE  STATE 


man.  Both  Protestants  ami  Catholics  began,  however,  | 
violently  to  attack  it ; the  Romanists  complained  of  the 
concessions  made  to  the  Protestants,  while  the  Protes- 
tant prinees  (John  Frederick  of  Saxony,  the  landgrave  of 
Hesse,  the  margrave  John  v.  Kilstriu,  the  elector  Wolf- 
gang v.  Zweibriicken)  declined  introducing  it  in  their 
states;  the  only  princes  who  submitted  to  it  were  the 
elector  of  Brandenburg,  the  elector  of  the  Palatinate, 
the  count  of  Wiirtemberg,  and  the  cities  of  Augsburg, 
Halle,  etc.  (the  latter  by  compulsion). 

111.  Thk  Leipzig  Interim. — The  Lutheran  theologi- 
ans openly  declared  they  would  not  receive  the  Augsburg 
interim,  alleging  that  it  re-established  popery:  some 
chose  rather  to  quit  their  chairs  and  livings  than  to 
subscribe  it.  Calvin  and  several  others  wrote  against  it. 
On  the  other  side,  the  emperor  was  so  severe  against 
those  who  refused  to  accept  it,  that  he  disfranchised  the 
cities  of  Magdeburg  and  Constance  for  their  opposition. 
Most  important,  however,  for  the  Protestant  cause,  and 
impossible  for  Charles  to  pass  unheeded,  was  the  oppo- 
sition against  the  Augsburg  interim  by  Maurice  of  Sax- 
ony, who  denied  the  right  of  the  elector  of  Mentz  to 
give  himself  the  approval  to  an  .act  that  demanded  the 
concurrence  of  the  states  directly  and  not  indirectly. 
To  fortify  himself  more  strongly  in  his  position,  Mau- 
rice entered  into  correspondence  with  Melancthon,  and 
called  a council  of  state  and  of  prominent  theologians  at 
Leipzig  and  other  cities.  In  the  conference  at  Leipzig 
it  was  decided,  Sept.  22, 1548,  that  the  Augsburg  interim 
could  not  be  accepted.  Yet,  for  fear  of  incurring  the 
displeasure  of  the  emperor,  a compromise  was  effected. 
In  a series  of  resolutions  which  were  adopted,  they  ad- 
mitted a great  part  o\  the  Roman  Catholic  ceremonials, 
and  tacitly  acknowledged  also  the  power  of  the  popes 
and  bishops,  but  yet  well  guarded  (!)  the  creed  of  the 
Reformers.  These  resolves  of  the  conference  were  pub- 
lished as  the  Leipzig  Interim , Dec.  22,  1548.  Subse- 
quently it  was  divided  into  a lesser  and  greater  interim. 
The  first  was  based  on  resolutions  passed  at  the  confer- 
ence of  Celle,  and  was  published  by  an  edict  of  the  clec- 
tOr,  and  this  ultimately  became  the  basis  of  the  great- 
er Leipzig  Interim.  It  was  prepared  by  Melancthon, 
Ebcr,  Bugcnhagen,  Major,  and  prince  George  of  An- 
halt. It  restored  some  Roman  Catholic  practices ; direct- 
ed that  mass  should  be  celebrated  with  ringing  of  bells, 
lighted  tapers,  and  a decorated  altar,  accompanied  by 
singing,  and  be  performed  in  Latin  by  priests  in  canon- 
icals; that  the  Horce  canonica;  and  psalms  should  be  sung 
according  to  the  custom  of  each  place;  the  old  festivals 
of  Alary,  etc.,  were  re-established,  and  meat  forbidden  on 
Fridays  and  last-days,  etc.  These  decisions,  which  were 
promulgated  in  March,  1549,  met  with  much  opposition 
in  Saxony,  yet  they  were  strictly  enforced,  and  such 
ministers  as  refused  to  submit  to  the  interim  were  de- 
posed, as,  for  instance,  Flacius  of  Wittenberg.  The  lat- 
ter then  put  himself  at  the  head  of  the  opposing  party, 
called  by  the  partisans  of  the  interim  Adiaphorists.  See 
Adiaphoric  Controversy.  Another  treacherous  ac- 
tion of  Maurice,  which  secured  his  services  anew  to  the 
Reformers,  undid  all  the  work  already  accomplished  by 
Charles  Y;  “and  while  Ilenry  II  was  winning,  at  the 
expense  of  the  empire,  the  delusive  title  of  conqueror, 
Charles  found  himself  reduced  to  the  hard  necessity  of 
restoring  all  that  his  crooked  policy  had  for  so  many 
years  been  devoted  to  extorting.”  In  1552  the  interim 
was  necessarily  revoked,  and,  by  the  transaction  of  l’as- 
sau,  August  2, 1552,  full  liberty  of  conscience  secured  to 
all  the  Lutheran  states;  and  Sept.  21, 1555,  at  the  Diet 
of  Augsburg,  was  finally  confirmed  the  right  of  the  states 
and  cities  of  the  Augsburg  Confession  (q.v.)  “to  enjoy 
the  practices  of  their  religion  in  peace.”  Compare 
Menzel,  Neve  Geschichte,  vol.  iii ; Robertson,  Charles  1' 
(Harper’s  edit.),  bk.  ix.  especially  p.  377  sq. ; and  see 
Bieck,  Ueber  d.  Interim  ( Leipz.  1727,  8vo);  Hirch,  Ueb. 
d.  Interim  (Lpz.  1753) ; Baumgarten,  Gesch.  d.  Rel.  Par- 
theien , p.  1 1 G3  sq. ; Sehrdekh,  Kirckengesch.  s.  d.  Ref.  i, 
592,  674  sq.,  683, 686  sq. ; Zeitschrift  f hist,  theol.  1868,  p. 


3 sq. ; Brit,  and  For.  Evang.  Review,  1868,  p.  631 ; Lea, 
Hist,  of  Sacerdotal  Celibacy,  p.  432  sq.;  Hardwick,  Ref- 
ormation (see  Ind.) ; Pierer,  Unit'.  Lex.  s.  v.  (J.  H.  \V.) 

Intermediate  State,  a phrase  employed  to  de- 
note the  state  or  situation  of  disembodied  souls  during 
the  interval  between  death  and  the  resurrection.  There 
have  been  several  theories  upon  the  subject.  See  Ha- 
des. 

The  condition  of  the  soul  after  death  cannot  but  be 
a subject  of  intense  concern  to  every  thoughtful  mind. 
Pagan  philosophers  have  groped  in  the  dark  for  some 
clew  to  guide  their  aspirations  after  immortality,  but 
have  at  best  attained  only  surmises  and  conjectures. 
Of  all  the  millions  that  have  crossed  the  dread  gulf 
which  separates  time  from  eternity,  none  have  ever  re- 
turned to  bring  tidings  of  what  befell  them  the  moment 
after  they  launched  from  the  shores  of  mortality.  Rev- 
elation alone  has  east  a ray  across  the  mighty  void,  and 
its  light  has  gradually  grown  clearer  and  more  penetra- 
ting, until  in  the  New  'Testament  we  are  no  longer  left 
in  any  measure  to  doubt  whether,  “ if  a man  die,  he  shall 
live  again.”  We  rest  assured  that  not  only  shall  the 
soul  survive  the  shock  of  dissolution,  but  the  body  also 
shall  eventually  join  it  in  an  endless  reunion. 

Still  the  question  recurs,  What  will  be  the  internal 
state  and  what  the  external  circumstances  of  the  spirit 
during  the  period  between  death  and  the  resurrection? 
Respecting  this  little  is  definitely  said  in  the  Scriptures, 
and  it  is  therefore  left  for  speculation  to  fill  up  the  lack 
of  information  on  this  interesting  theme,  guided  by 
such  hints  as  are  casually  thrown  out  by  the  sacred 
writers,  and  such  considerations  as  the  ascertained  na- 
ture and  destiny  of  man  afford. 

1.  The  popular  sentiment  or  belief  of  Christians — ex- 
pressed rather  in  the  form  of  hope  than  as  a theory — 
appears  to  be  that  the  righteous  enter  heaven  immedi- 
ately after  they  pass  away  from  this  world.  Such  pas- 
j sages  as  the  Saviour’s  declaration  to  the  dying  thief, 
“ This  day  thou  shall  be  with  me  in  Paradise,”  and  the 
parable  of  Dives  and  Lazarus,  are  thought  especially  to 
! support  this  view ; and  hence  believers  have  fearlessly 
cast  themselves  into  the.  arms  of  death,  expecting  to 
awake  the  next  moment  in  the  full  realities  of  everlast- 
ing glory. 

Now  we  would  not  for  all  the  world  deprive  dying 
saints  of  a particle  of  the  consolation  which  the  Gospel 
is  designed  to  yield,  nor  is  it  any  part  of  our  present 
purpose  to  weaken  anticipations  of  the  future  rest  in  the 
bosom  of  any,  however  sanguine  and  impatient.  But 
the  known  truth  that  a long — probably  immense — in- 
terval of  time  will  elapse  between  the  decease  of  Chris- 
tians of  the  present  age — and  certainly  of  past  centuries 
— and  the  revival  of  their  bodies  at  the  general  judg- 
ment, is  sufficient  to  prove  that  they  do  not  instantly 
pass  from  the  Church  militant  to  the  New  Jerusalem 
above.  Let  us  calmly  and  logically  consider  what  may 
be  ascertained  as  to  the  experience  and  surroundings  of 
the  soid  during  this  intermediate  period.  See  Immor- 
tality. 

The  topic  calls  for  a volume  rather  than  an  essay, 
and,  as  we  must  be  brief,  we  make  but  two  other  pre- 
liminary remarks.  The  first  is  that  we  have  not  space 
here  to  discuss  the  above  and  kindred  passages  of  the 
New  Testament ; but  we  direct  the  reader  to  professed 
commentaries  for  their  exposition,  and  the  solution  of 
their  bearing  upon  the  point  in  question,  contenting 
ourselves  here  with  simply  observing  that  they  are  figu- 
rative in  their  phraseology,  and  that,  whatever  they 
may  mean,  they  cannot  be  intended  to  contradict  the 
fact  of  a real  space  between  death  and  the  resurrection. 
Our  other  prefatory  remark  is,  that  as  this  is  legitimate- 
ly debatable  ground,  no  essential  item  of  creed  or  or- 
thodoxy being  involved  in  it,  w’e  ought  not  to  incur  any 
odium,  theologicnm  of  unsoundness  in  the  faith  should 
our  discussion  lead  to  new'  and  surprising  conclusions. 
This  last  remark  is  especially  pertinent  in  view  of  the 
, fact  that  even  orthodox  Christians  in  all  ages  have  en- 


INTERMEDIATE  STATE 


622 


INTERMEDIATE  STATE 


(ertaineil  very  different  views  on  this  subject,  as  will 
appear  from  the  following  enumeration  of  opinions. 

II.  The  theory  of  a state  of  sleep,  insensibility,  or  un- 
consciousness. It  was  taught  as  early  as  A.D.  *248  by 
the  Arabian  Thiietopsycliites,  whom  Origen  combated. 
It  was  thought  to  be  held  by  pope  John  XXII,  and  was 
disapproved  by  the  University  of  Paris  and  pope  Bene- 
dict XII.  It  was  revived  by  the  Swiss  Anabaptists  un- 
der the  name  of  Psychopannyckia,  and  was  opposed  by 
Calvin.  And  in  later  times  it  has  been  started  anew, 
in  a form  more  or  less  distinct,  by  John  Heyn,  Wet  stein, 
Sulzer,  Beinhard,  and  Whately,  and  by  a new  sect  in 
Iowa.  The  defenders  of  a state  of  unconsciousness  pro- 
duce such  texts  as  Psa.  xvii,  15;  1 Thess.  iv,  14.  In 
opposition  are  cited  2 Cor.  v,  8 ; Phil,  i,  23 ; Matt.  xvii, 
3;  Luke  xvi,  23;  xxiii,  43;  Rev.  vi,  9. 

III.  The  theory  of  Purgatory.  That  Christ  preached 
to  the  souls  detained  in  Hades,  as  the  patriarchs  or  oth- 
ers, was  held  in  the  2d  and  3d  centuries  by  Justin,  Ire- 
nanis,  Tertullian,  and  Clem.  Alexandrinns.  It  was  sup- 
posed to  be  warranted  by  1 Pet.  iii,  19;  Acts  ii,  27; 
Rom.  x,  7 ; Eph.  iv,  9;  Matt,  xii,  31.  The  idea  of  a 
purgatorial  fire  is  more  or  less  obscurely  hinted  in  the 
writings  of  Clem.  Alexandrians,  Origen,  and  Augustine. 
But  the  complete  scheme  owes  its  paternity  to  Gregory 
the  Great,  who  propounded  it  as  an  article  of  faith, 
along  with  intercessory  masses  for  the  dead;  finding  a 
supposed  warrant  in  2 Macc.  xii,  40.  In  opposition  to 
the  notion  of  a Purgatory,  it  may  be  said  that  it  is  a 
fiction  borrowed  from  paganism  ; that  it  is  repugnant  to 
reason  and  common  sense;  that  it  is  contradictory  to 
express  assertions  of  Scripture  (Ileb.  xii,  23;  Lev.  xiv, 
13;  xxii,  11);  that  it  is  subversive  of  the  cardinal  doc- 
trines of  the  Gospel,  the  atonement  and  justification  by 
faith  in  Christ;  that  it  robs  the  Christian  of  evangel- 
ical peace  and  consolation ; and  that  it  was  unknown  to 
the  primitive  Church.  Even  Augustine,  when  he  pray- 
ed for  the  increase  of  his  deceased  mother’s  happiness, 
denied  the  existence  of  any  middle  place.  (So  also  Clem. 
Bom.  Fp.  2 ad  Cor.)  The  article,  “he  descended  into 
hell,”  was  not  admitted  into  the  Apostles’  Creed,  nor  those 
of  the  East,  until  the  5th  century.  It  appeared  first  in 
the  ( Teed  of  Ariminum,  A.D.358,  and  in  that  of  Aquileia, 
A.I).  3X1  (Ilufinus,  lie  Symbol.).  See  Wilson , Illustra- 
tions from  A post.  Fathers , p.  108.  Comp.  Purgatory. 

IV  • The  scheme  of  a middle  or  intermediate  place,  or 
phec  of  rest.  This  is  a different  idea  from  that  of  an 
intermediate  state,  meaning  by  the  latter  only  an  infe- 
rior degree  of  happiness  apart  from  the  yet  unraised 
body.  It  is  affirmed  that  judgment  is  not  pronounced 
till  the  last  day;  but  this  is  denied,  a particular  judg- 
ment passing  on  each  individual,  and  his  place  being 
assigned  him,  upon  his  death  (Acts  i,  25 ; Luke  xvi,  23 ; 
xxiii,  43 ; 2 Cor.  xii,  2,  4).  It  is  said  that  no  one  is  per- 
fectly holy  when  he  dies,  but  only  such  can  enter  heav- 
en. In  reply,  it  is  contended,  as  in  the  Westminster 
Catechism,  that  there  is  a distinction  made  between  be- 
ing perfectly  holy  and  perfectly  blessed,  the  first  taking 
place  at  death,  the  latter  only  at  the  resurrection  (lleb. 
xii,  23).  If  is  alleged  that  the  Scriptures  favor  the  no- 
tion (John  iii,  13;  xx,  17;  Acts  iii,  34;  lleb.  xi,  39); 
to  which  it  is  replied  that  these  texts  are  dubious,  and 
neutralized  by  others  positive  and  unequivocal  (Isa.lvii. 

1 2 ; 2 Kings  ii,  1 1 ; Acts  vii,  59  : Rev.  xiv,  2-5 ; vii,  14)’ 
We  proceed  to  render  this  theory  more  definite  bv  pro- 
posing our  own  view  of  the  subject. 

1.  In  the  first  place,  we  lay  it  down  as  an  axiom  that 
a disembodied  or  pure  spirit  is  necessarily  freed  from  all 
the  relations  of  space  of  which  we  are  terrestrially  cog- 
nizant. T he  external  senses  are  locked  up,  because 
their  physical  organs  are  absent.  Such  a spirit  may, 
lor  aught  we  know— and  perhaps  this  position  is  the 
more  probable — be  open  to  intercourse  with  other  pure 
spirits;  doubtless  it  is  at  least  accessible  to  the  divine  { 
Spirit,  from  whose  influence  nothing  material  or  imma-  i 
terial  can  be  veiled ; but  we  are  unable  to  eoneeive  of 
any  intercourse  or  connection  between  it  and  the  pres- 


ent relations  of  things.  There  is  absolutely  no  medium 
of  communication,  as  far  as  we  are  aware.  Death  sev- 
ers the  link  between  the  soul  and  the  body,  and  there- 
fore between  the  soul  and  all  bodies.  What  new  ca- 
pacities may  by  that  act  be  developed  within  the  sold, 
what  new  relations  created  with  other  immaterial  be- 
ings, or  what  realization  of  new  conceptions,  we  of  course 
know  not ; and,  indeed,  we  have  no  reason  to  suppose 
any  such ; but  if  we  would  not  utterly  confound  mind 
and  matter,  or  unconsciously  clothe  the  departed  spirits 
with  some  ethereal  form  of  body,  we  are  bound  to  con- 
clude, from  the  total  diversity  and  even  contrariety  of 
their  properties  and  attributes,  that  a dead  man  is  really 
dead  to  everything  pertaining  to  time  and  sense. 

This  cuts  up,  root  and  branch,  all  those  impressions — 
some  have  even  gone  so  far  as  to  claim  them  as  scien- 
tific experience — of  intercommunication  between  living 
persons  and  the  spirits  of  their  deceased  friends.  The 
common  sense  of  enlightened  Christianity  has  long 
since  stamped  all  such  stories  with  the  just  suspicion  of 
superstitious  imagination.  Severe  reasoning  compels  us 
to  set  them  down  as  hallucination  or  imposture.  Those 
who  have  indulged  themselves  in  these  fancies  have  al- 
ways diverged  towards  insanity  or  materialism. 

A disembodied  spirit,  therefore,  prior  to  the  restora- 
tion of  its  physical  organism,  is  incapable  of  any  of  the 
material  joys  which  imagination  is  wont  to  associate 
with  the  full  idea  of  the  heavenly  state.  We  must 
carefully  exclude  from  its  experience  diu*ing  that  inter- 
val everything  that  grows  out  of  our  mundane  notions 
and  present  externalities.  That  these,  and  more  than 
these,  will  be  restored  on  the  consummation  of  its  bliss 
in  the  new  heavens  and  the  new  earth  of  its  final  abode, 
we  are  abundantly  assured  by  the  symbols  and  teach- 
ings of  the  New  Testament ; but  the  soul  must  wait  for 
these  enjoyments  until  its  bodily  counterpart  shall  have 
been  raised,  spiritualized,  perfected,  and  immortalized. 

We  may  go  further  than  this,  and  declare  that  none 
of  the  now  known  and  verbally  defined  relations  in  point 
of  location  are  predicable  of  the  departed  soul;  in  other 
words,  it  is  not  in  any  particular  assignable  place  while 
in  that  state.  The  instant  it  quits  the  body  it  possesses 
no  loeal  habitation.  Its  position  cannot  be  determined 
as  to  space,  for  it  has  no  metes  or  boundaries,  no  point 
of  contact  with  visible  objects.  It  can  neither  be  said 
to  be  somewhere  nor  nowhere,  nor  yet  everywhere.  It 
simply  exists — like  God,  but  not  infinite.  In  short,  if 
' heaven  be  a locality  (and  the  existence  in  some  part 
of  the  universe  of  the  Redeemer’s  actual  body,  as  well  as 
[ those  of  Enoch  and  Elijah,  besides  the  concurrent  fig- 
ures of  the  whole  Bible,  lead  us  to  conclude  that  it  is 
such  as  well  as  a state),  then  certainly  the  disembodied 
spirit  cannot  with  propriety  be  spoken  of  as  being  there 
any  more  than  elsewhere.  This,  we  admit,  is  an  ab- 
straction; but  we  are  speaking  of  a mere  abstraction; 
for  what  can  be  more  abstract — more  really  inconceiva- 
ble according  to  our  earthly  notions — than  a soul  with- 
out a body. 

But  let  it  not  be  imagined  that  the  soul  has  thus  lost 
any  of  its  essence  or  inherent  powers.  It  remains  in  all 
these  absolute  and  intact,  a veritable  entity,  as  truly 
such  as  any  spiritual  being,  or  as  when  united  to  the 
body,  or  indeed  as  the  body  itself:  but  it  is  shut  within 
itself,  and  circumscribed  by  the  limits  of  its  own  nature. 
All  that  we  are  now  demanding  is  that  it  shall  no  longer 
be  viewed,  and  treated,  and  spoken  of  under  the  condi- 
tions, and  associations,  and  terms  of  an  absent  corporei- 
ty. These  have  no  meaning  when  applied  to  it,  except 
as  belonging  to  the  past. 

2.  In  the  second  place,  it  follows  that  the  soul  can 
hare  no  cognizance  of  the  passage  of  time  while  thus  dis- 
embodied. Time  consists  of  the  sequence  of  events, 
and  all  means  of  knowing  the  transpiration  of  these  are 
excluded  by  the  very  supposition  of  the  present  case. 
Time,  moreover,  is  measured  by  the  alternations  of  nat- 
ural objects,  and  these  are  also  abnegated  here.  It  is 
evidently  impossible  for  the  isolated  spirit  to  be  at  all 


INTERMEDIATE  STATE 


623 


INTERNUNTIUS 


aware  of  the  flight  of  hours,  seasons,  or  ages.  To  it  “ a 
thousand  years  are  as  one  day” — both  alike  unapprecia- 
ble.  The  only  change  it  could  experience  wotdd  be  the 
succession  of  its  own  ideas,  and  these — if  comparable 
for  such  a purpose  with  our  present  associations  of 
thought,  which  are  like  chords  played  upon  by  every 
passing  breeze  of  circumstance  and  touch  of  physical 
condition — furnish  no  fixed  standard  or  definite  mark  to 
our  own  consciousness.  IIow  seldom  do  we  think  of 
the  lapse  of  time  during  our  dreams,  which  afford  the 
nearest  parallel  to  the  state  we  are  considering;  and 
how  wide  of  a true  estimate  are  we  when  we  chance  to 
compute  the  moments  or  imaginary  hours  in  our  som- 
nolency. Some  notable  instances  are  on  record  of  the 
egregious  miscalculation  of  time  by  dreaming  persons, 
showing  that  in  sleep  they  have  no  accurate  means  of 
determining  it,  but  that  they  protract  or  abbreviate  it 
to  suit  the  humor  of  the  dream.  Much  more  would 
this  be  true  with  the  disembodied  soul,  which  has  even 
less  opportunity  or  occasion  to  review  its  course  of 
thoughts  for  such  a purpose,  or,  indeed,  to  take  any  note 
of  their  rapidity  or  tediousness  of  succession.  We  con- 
clude, therefore,  that  the  intermediate  state  will  jiass  to 
all  its  subjects  as  an  instant , and  that  none  will  be  aware 
of  the  length  of  the  interval. 

This  is  in  accordance  with  a remarkable  passage  of 
Scripture — about  the  only  one  where  the  subject  is  di- 
rectly and  literally  touched  upon — and  this  but  inciden- 
tally, in  answer  apparently  to  a query  that  had  been 
addressed  to  an  apostle  on  account  of  certain  curious  or 
captious  persons;  for  the  Scriptures  are  very  chary  of 
information  on  such  abstruse  points.  Paul  tells  us  ex- 
pressly (1  Thess.  i v,  15,  17),  “We  [or  those]  which  are 
alive  and  remain  unto  the  [final]  coming  of  the  Lord 
shall  not  precede  [“prevent”]  them  which  are  asleep. 
. . . We  [or  those]  which  are  alive  and  remain  shall  be 
caught  up  together  with  them  in  the  clouds.”  He  is 
speaking,  it  is  true,  of  the  resurrection  of  the  body,  and 
it  is  with  reference  to  this  that  he  says  one  class  of  saints 
shall  not  anticipate  another  in  that  reward ; but  his  lan- 
guage implies  that  none  shall  have  any  advantage  in 
point  of  time  over  the  rest,  and  this  would  not  be  true 
if  some  must  pass  long  centuries  of  waiting,  while  oth- 
ers are  translated  suddenly  from  earth  to  heaven.  No ; 
it  will  all  be  equalized : Noah,  who  died  thousands  of 
years  ago,  shall  not  seem  to  himself  to  pass  any  longer 
period  of  expectation  in  the  grave,  or,  rather,  in  the 
spirit  world,  than  the  last  saint  that  is  interred  just  as 
Gabriel’s  trump  shall  reawaken  his  undecayed  corpse, 
or  than  those  who  then  shall  be  living  on  the  globe. 
This  theory  meets  and  harmonizes  all  their  cases,  and 
vindicates  the  divine  impartiality. 

Some  confirmation  of  this  view  may  likewise  be  de- 
rived from  the  simnltaneousness  of  the  general  judg- 
ment. We  surely  are  not  to  suppose  that  any  will  re- 
main cycles  of  ages  in  the  other  world,  whether  happy 
or  miserable,  without  having  their  destiny  as  yet  fixed, 
and  their  final  doom  awarded.  To  each  individual’s 
consciousness,  doubtless,  will  be  definitely  assigned,  at 
the  instant  he  is  ushered  into  the  presence  of  his  Maker, 
the  awards  of  his  irrevocable  fate,  and  this  knowledge 
will  form  the  basis  of  his  joy  or  despair.  The  only  ob- 
ject after  this  of  a general  gathering  would  be  to  make 
known  to  the  universe  a sentence  that  has  already  been 
anticipated  to  the  parties  chiefly  interested.  The  Scrip- 
tural representations  of  the  “last  grand  assize”  are  evi- 
dently scenic  in  their  character,  that  is,  pictures  of  what 
to  those  concerned  shall  seem  to  transpire  substantial- 
ly, but  not  necessarily  literally  thus.  See  Judgment, 
General.  He  that  as  it  may,  on  our  theory  alone  a 
universal  assemblage  would  he  more  possible  and  sig- 
nificant: to  each  human  being  the  hour  of  death  is 
practically,  although  not  actually,  the  day  of  judgment, 
for  the  two  events  are  separated  only  by  an  inapprecia- 
ble interval ; and  as  the  same  is  true  of  all  his  fellows, 
and  as  their  several  days  of  doom  are  also  separated  by 
an  inappreciable  interval,  they  are  all  reduced  — to  ev- 


ery mail's  own  apprehension — to  the  same  plane  of  time, 
and  consequently  may  justly — even  with  reference  to 
individuals — be  depicted  as  judged  together.  The  hour 
of  Christ’s  three  predicted  comings — in  vengeance  on 
the  Jews — in  the  article  of  death — in  the  final  scene — 
thus,  although  really  distinct  events,  become  identical 
by  more  than  a figure  of  speech,  and  he  is  justified  in 
alluding  to  them  all  in  the  same  breath. 

3.  In  the  third  and  last  place,  however,  as  above  inti- 
mated, the  intermediate  state  will  not  be  a period  of  un- 
consciousness. This  might  be  hastily  inferred  from  the 
insulation  of  the  spirit  from  all  sources  of  external 
knowledge  and  impression.  But  it  has  still  left  to  it 
the  whole  inner  world  of  thought  and  feeling : memory 
is  busy  with  the  past,  and  hope  is  active  with  anticipa- 
tions of  the  future;  the  direct  comforts  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  also  are  by  no  means  denied  during  this  expec- 
tant period,  and  none  can  tell  how  greatly  these  and  all 
the  foregoing  emotions  may  be  intensified  by  the  rapt 
state  of  the  disembodied  soul.  Examples  like  those  of 
Paul  “caught  up  into  the  third  heavens,”  of  Tennent 
in  a prolonged  fit  of  catalepsy,  and  of  others  in  similar 
extraordinary  states  of  spiritual  elevation,  might  be 
cited  to  show  how  far  such  an  abreption  of  bodily  func- 
tions is  calculated  to  enhance  the  perceptions  of  celestial 
verities;  but  these,  it  must  be  borne  in  mind,  were  real- 
ly experiences  in  the  flesh — although  Paul  seems  doubt- 
ful whether  he  was  not  actually  “ out  of  the  body,”  and 
at  least  intimates  that  such  mental  exaltation  would  be 
possible  if  he  were  released  from  earth  ; they  are,  there- 
fore, not  strictly  in  point  as  proof.  On  the  other  hand, 
general  observation  and  experiment  show  that  all  tem- 
porary collapse  or  extinction  of  the  bodily  functions — as 
by  accident  or  disease  affecting  the  brain  or  nervous 
centres— is  attended  by  suppression  in  the  same  degree 
of  the  mental  faculties;  but  these,  again,  are  symptoms 
occurring  under  the  joint  relations  of  soul  and  body,  and 
therefore  no  sure  indications  of  what  might  take  place 
in  a disembodied  state.  Accordingly,  we  fall  back  upon 
the  position  most  agreeable  to  our  native  aspirations, 
and  most  conformable,  as  wc  think,  to  the  teachings  of 
revelation,  that  the  soul,  immediately  after  passing  out 
of  the  body,  enters  upon  a condition  of  conscious  happi- 
ness or  miser}',  according  to  its  previous  fitness  and  hab- 
its. In  a word,  we  see  no  reason  why,  when  set  free 
from  connection  with  the  body,  the  spirit  should  do  oth- 
erwise than  continue  to  exercise  the  emotions  and  in- 
tellections which  had  already  become  customary  with 
it.  Until  its  reunion  with  the  body,  however— a space, 
as  we  have  seen,  of  practically  no  account  to  itself,  at 
least  in  point  of  duration — it  can  receive  no  new  expe- 
rience, and  be  subject  to  no  external  influences,  unless 
they  be  purely  spiritual.  See  Heaven. 

See  Hagenbach,  Hist,  of  Doctrines ; Bp.  Law,  Theory 
of  Religion ; Rees,  Cyclopeediet,  art.  Sleep  of  Soul ; Tay- 
lor, Physical  Theory  of  another  Life;  Tucker,  Light  of 
Nature ; Brougham,  Natural  Theology ; Stuart,  Essays ; 
Abp.  Whately,  On  Future  State ; Les  Horizons  Celestes ; 
Barrow,  Pearson,  Bull,  On  Aptostles ’ Creed;  Bp.  White, 
Lectures  on  the  Catechism;  Archibald  Campbell,  View 
of  the  Middle  State;  Watts,  World  to  Come;  Watson, 
Theolog.  Institutes ; Hall,  Purgatory  Examined;  M‘Cul- 
lough,  On  the  Intermediate  State;  Meth.  Quart.  Review, 
1852,  p.  240;  Bay  lie,  The  Intermediate  State  of  the  P less- 
ee! ( Loud.  1864);  Shimeall,  The  Unseen  World  (N.  York, 
1868);  Freewill  Baptist  Quarterly , April,  1861;  Presb. 
Quart.  Rer.  October,  1861 ; Christian  Rev.  April,  1862; 
Boston  Rer.  Jan.  1864. 

Interment.  See  Burial. 

Internal  Dignitaries  was  the  name  by  which, 
in  the  English  Church,  under  the  “old  foundation,”  the 
dean,  precentor,  chancellor,  and  treasurer  of  cathedrals 
were  known.  See  Walcott,  Sac.  A rchceol.  p.  331. 

Internuntius  or  Internuncio,  an  envoy  of  the 
pope,  sent  only  to  small  states  and  republics,  while  the 
real  nuncio  is  the  representative  of  the  papal  see  at  the 
courts  of  emperors  and  kings. 


INTERPRETATION  624  INTERPRETATION' 


Interpretation,  Biblical,  or  the  science  of  sa-  | 
crert  Hermeneutics,  as  it  is  more  technically  called.  In 
treating  this,  >ve  shall  largely  avail  ourselves  of  the  arti- 
cle on  the  subject  in  Kitto’s  Cydopmlia.  For  practical 
rules  of  interpretation,  sec  IIekmeneutics. 

1.  Definition  and  Distinctions.— 1.  There  is  a very  an- 
cient and  wide-spread  belief  that  the  knowledge  of  di- 
vine things  in  general,  and  of  the  divine  will  in  partic- 
ular, is  by  no  means  a common  property  of  the  whole 
human  race,  but  only  a prerogative  of  a few  specially- 
gifted  and  privileged  individuals.  It  has  been  consid- 
ered that  this  higher  degree  of  knowledge  has  its  source 
in  light  and  instruction  proceeding  directly  from  God, 
and  that  it  can  be  imparted  to  others  by  communicating 
to  them  a key  to  the  signs  of  the  divine  will.  Since, 
however,  persons  who  in  this  manner  have  been  indi- 
rectly taught,  are  initiated  into  divine  secrets,  and  con- 
sequently appear  as  the  confidants  of  L)citv,  they  also 
enjoy,  although  instructed  only  through  the  medium  of 
otiiers,  a more  intimate  communion  with  God,  a more 
distinct  perception  of  his  thoughts,  and  consequently  a 
mediate  consciousness  of  Deity  itself.  It  therefore  fol- 
lows that  persons  thus  either  immediately  or  mediately 
instructed  are  supposed  to  be  capable,  by  means  of  their 
divine  illumination  and  their  knowledge  of  the  signs  of 
the  divine  will,  to  impart  to  mankind  the  ardently-de- 
sired knowledge  of  divine  things  and  of  the  will  of  De- 
ity. They  are  considered  to  be  interpreters  or  explain- 
ers of  the  signs  of  the  divine  will,  and,  consequently,  to 
be  mediators  between  God  and  man.  Divine  illumina- 
tion, and  a communicable  knowledge  of  the  signs  and 
expressions  of  the  divine  will,  are  thus  supposed  to  be  ( 
combined  in  one  and  the  same  person.  See  Revela- 
tion. 

2.  The  above  general  idea  is  the  basis  of  the  Hebrew 
£023,  pro) diet.  The  prophet  is  a divinely-inspired  seer, 
and,  as  such,  he  is  an  interpreter  and  preacher  of  the 
divine  will.  lie  may  either  be  directly  called  by  God, 
or  have  been  prepared  for  his  office  in  the  schools  of  the 
prophets  (comp.  Knobel,  I ter  Prophetismus  der  Ilebraer 
vollstiindig  dargestellt.  Bresl.  1837,  i,  102  sq. ; ii,  45  sq.). 
See  Seek. 

However,  the  being  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost  was 
the  most  prominent  feature  in  the  Hebrew  idea  of  a 
prophet.  This  is  even  implied  in  the  usual  appellation 
which  means  a person  in  the  state  of  divine  in- 
spiration (not  a predicter  of  future  events).  Prophet- 
ism  ceased  altogether  as  soon  as  Jehovah,  according  to 
the  popular  opinion,  ceased  to  communicate  his  Spirit. 
See  PnomiKT. 

3.  The  Hebrew  notion  of  a appears  among  the 

Greeks  to  have  been  split  into  its  two  constituent  parts 
of  iu'ivtkj,  from  paivtoQai,  to  rare  (Plato,  Pheedrus,  § 
4H,  ed.  Stcpli.  p.  244,  a.  b.),  and  of  tfyiyprifc,  from  ilp- 
yuaOai,  to  expound.  However,  the  ideas  of  pdvrig  and 
of  i^pyprpg  could  be  combined  in  the  same  person. 
Compare  Boissounadc,  Anecdota  Gratca , i,  96,  Ad/nraiv 
tOiyiiri)c,  fuh’TiQ  yap  pv  mi  xpifi Tpovg  i’Oiynro  (com- 
pare Scholia  in  Aristophanes,  Xubes,  33G),  and  Arrian, 
Epictetus , ii,  7. To)'  pfivriv  ror  i%t)yat>pfVov  rti  opptia  ; 
Plato,  l)e  Legibits,  ix,  p.  871,  c.,  ABr'  HLpypTwv  mi  pc'iv- 
Tiiov ; Euripides,  Phcenisste,  v.  1018, '()  pining  i&jyi), Ta- 
ro, and  fphigeuin  in  Aulide,  1.  529.  Plutarch  (Vita 
Nmme, cap.  xi)  places iKpyprpg  and  7 -oo(pi)Tpg  together; 
so  also  does  Dionysius  llalicarnasscnsis,  ii,  73.  The  first 
two  ot  these  examples  prove  that  iZgyttrai  were,  ac- 
cording to  the  Greeks,  persons  who  possessed  the  gift 
of  discovering  the  will  of  the  Deity  from  certain  ap- 
pearances and  of  interpreting  signs.  Jul.  Pollux  (viii, 
121)  says,  Ez//yrjrai  vi  imXoi'VTo  oi  rd  jrmi  rwc  rio- 
atptiwv  Kai  rd  nbv  iipwv  ciOanKoyrtg.  Har- 

pocration  says,  and  Suidas  repeats  after  him,  E'igyi^gg, 
6 iZrjynvptvog  71  hpd.  Com]).  Becker,  Anecdota  Gr<r- 
ca,  i,  185, ‘ Ebjyoovrm  ot  i/nritooi.  Crcu/.er  defines  the 
ii.i}yil~(n,  in  his  Sgmbolik  vnd  Jfythologie  der  often 
Vblker,  i,  15,  as  “persons  whose  high  vocation  it  was  to 


bring  laymen  into  harmony  with  divine  things.  These 
iZnyijrai  moved  in  a religious  sphere  (compare  Herod,  i, 
78,  and  Xenophon,  Cyropeedia , viii,  3,  11).  Even  the 
Delphic  Apollo,  replying  to  those  who  sought  his  ora- 
cles, is  called  by  Plato  iKrjyrjrifg  ( Polit . iv,  448,  b.). 
Plutarch  mentions,  in  Vita  Thesei,  oaiujv  mi  Upwv  i£- 
tjyifrai ; compare  also  the  above-quoted  passage  of  Dio- 
nysius Ilalicarnassensis,  and  especially  Ruhnken  (ad 
Tinueum  Lexicon , cd.  Lugd.  Bat.  1789,  p.  189  sq.).  The 
Scholiast  on  Sophocles  (Ajax,  320)  has  iZpypeng  tm 
twv  Vtiui v,  and  the  Scholiast  on  Electra  (42(5)  has  the 
definition  tJZgygoig  diaocapiiotg  Oeiwv.  It  is  in  connec- 
tion with  this  original  signification  of  the  word  it,t]yi)- 
Tt)g  that  the  expounders  of  the  law  are  styled  i^tjygrai ; 
because  the  ancient  law  was  derived  from  the  gods,  and 
the  law-language  had  become  unintelligible  to  the  mul- 
titude. (Compare  Lysias,  vi,  10 ; Diodorus  Sicidus.  xiii, 
35;  Ruhnken,  as  quoted  above;  the  annotators  on  Pol- 
lux and  Harpocration;  and  K.  Fr.  Hermann,  Lehrbnch 
der  Griechischen  Stoats- A Iterthiimer,  Marburg,  1836,  § 
104,  note  4).  In  Athenians  and  Plutarch  there  are  men- 
tioned books  under  the  title  i^pyprim,  which  contained 
introductions  to  the  right  understanding  of  sacred  signs. 
(Compare  Valesius,  ad  llarpocrationeni  Lexicon , Lipsia?, 
1824,  ii,  462.) 

4.  Like  the  Greeks,  the  Romans  also  distinguished 
between  votes  and  interpres  (Cicero,  Fragm. ; Hortens.) : 
“Sive  vates  sive  in  sacris  initiisque  tradendis  divime 
mentis  interpretes.”  Servius  (ad  Virgilii  sEn.  ii,  359) 
quotes  a passage  from  Cicero  to  this  effect:  “The  sci- 
ence of  divination  is  twofold;  it  is  either  a sacred  rav- 
ing, as  in  prophets,  or  an  art,  as  in  soothsayers,  who  re- 
gard the  intestines  of  sacrifices,  or  lightnings,  or  the 
fiiglit,  of  birds.”  The  aruspices,fulguriti,fulguratores, 
and  augures  belong  to  the  idea  of  the  interpres  deorum . 
Comp.  Cicero,  Pro  domo  sua,  c.  41 : “1  have  been  taught 
thus,  that  in  undertaking  new  religious  performances 
the  chief  thing  seems  to  be  the  interpretation  of  the 
will  of  the  immortal  gods.”  Cicero  (De  Divinatione,  i, 
41)  says:  “The  Ilctrusei  explain  the  meaning  of  all  re- 
markable foreboding  signs  and  portents.”  Hence,  in 
Cicero  (De  Legibus , ii,  27),  the  expression  “ interpretes 
religionum.” 

An  example  of  this  distinction,  usual  likewise  among 
the  Greeks,  is  found  in  1 Cor.  xii,  4,  30.  The  Corin- 
thians filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost  were  yXwaaaig  \a- 
XovvTtc,  speaking  in  tongues,  consequently  they  were  in 
the  state  of  a pctvrig  ; but  frequently  they  did  not  com- 
prehend the  full  import  of  their  own  inspiration,  and 
did  not  understand  how  to  interpret  it  because  they  had 
not  the  ipupviia  yXionad) v,  interpretation  of  tongues: 
consequently  they  were  not  i^pyprai. 

The  Romans  obtained  the  interpret atio  from  the 
Etruscans  (Cicero,  De  Divinatione , i,  2,  and  Ottfried 
Muller,  Die  Etrusker,  ii,  8 sq.);  but  the  above  distinc- 
tion was  the  cause  that  the  interpretatio  degenerated 
into  a common  art,  which  was  exercised  without  inspi- 
ration, like  a contemptible  soothsaying,  the  rules  of 
which  were  contained  in  writings.  Cicero  (De  Dirina- 
tione,  i,  2)  says:  “Supposing  that  divination  by  raving 
was  especially  contained  in  the  Sibylline  verses,  they 
appointed  ten  public  interpreters  of  the  same.” 

The  ideas  of  interpres  and  of  interpretatio  were  not 
confined  among  the  Romans  to  sacred  subjects,  which, 
as  we  have  seen,  was  the  case  among  the  Greeks  with 
the  corresponding  Greek  terms.  The  words  interpres 
and  interpretatio  were  not  only,  as  among  the  Greeks, 
applied  to  the  explanation  of  the  laws,  but  also,  in  gen- 
eral. to  the  explanation  of  whatever  was  obscure,  and 
even  to  a mere  intervention  in  the  settlement,  of  affairs; 
for  instance,  we  find  in  Livy  (xxi,  1 2)  pans  interpres, 
denoting  Alorcas,  by  whose  instrumentality  peace  was 
offered.  At  an  earlier  period  interpretes  meant  only 
those  persons  by  means  of  whom  affairs  between  God 
and  man  were  settled  (romp.  Virgil,  yEneid,  x,  175,  and 
Serving  on  this  passage).  The  words  interpretes  and 
conjictores  became  convertible  terms;  “for  which  rea- 


INTERPRETATION 


625 


INTERPRETATION 


son  the  interpreters  of  dreams  and  omens  are  ealled  also 
coty'ecturers ” (Quintil.  I ns  tit.  iii,  6). 

From  what  we  have  stated,  it  follows  that  t&iytjirtg 
and  interpretutio  were  originally  terms  confined  to  the 
unfolding  of  supernatural  subjects,  although  in  Latin,  at 
an  early  period,  these  terms  were  also  applied  to  profane 
matters. 

5.  The  Christians  also  early  felt  the  want  of  an  inter- 
pretation of  their  sacred  writings,  which  they  deemed 
to  be  of  divine  origin;  consequently  they  wanted  inter- 
preters and  instruction  by  the  aid  of  which  the  true 
sense  of  the  sacred  Scriptures  might  be  discovered.  The 
right  understanding  of  the  nature  and  will  of  God  seem- 
ed, among  the  Christians,  as  well  as  at  an  early  period 
among  the  heathen,  to  depend  upon  a right  understand- 
ing of  certain  external  signs;  however,  there  was  a 
progress  from  the  imintelligible  signs  of  nature  to  more 
intelligible  written  signs,  which  was  certainly  an  im- 
portant progress. 

The  Christians  retained  about  the  interpretation  of 
their  sacred  writings  the  same  expressions  which  had 
been  current  in  reference  to  the  interpretation  of  sacred 
subjects  among  the  heathen.  Hence  arose  the  fact  that 
the  Greek  Christians  employed  with  predilection  the 
words  ify'iyiicig  and  i Zijyijrijg  in  reference  to  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  holy  Scriptures.  But  the  circumstance 
that  St.  Paul  employs  the  term  ipprjviia  yXiouautv  for 
the  interpretation  of  the  yXuooaig  XaXtin  (1  Cor.  xii, 
10;  xiv,  26),  greatly  contributed  to  the  use  likewise 
of  words  belonging  to  the  root  epppvfvtiv.  Accord- 
ing to  Eusebius  (Hist or ia  Ecclesiastica,  iii,  9),  Paulus, 
bishop  of  Ilierapolis,  wrote,  as  early  as  about  A.D.  100, 
a work  under  the  title  of  XoyiW  KvpiaKiun  t^Z/yijcnc, 
which  means  an  interpretation  of  the  discourses  of  Je- 
sus. Papias  explained  the  religious  contents  of  these 
discourses,  which  he  had  collected  from  oral  and  written 
traditions.  He  distinguished  between  the  meaning  of 
th)yuo9(u  and  ippipavtiv,  as  ajrpears  from  his  observa- 
tion (preserved  by  Eusebius  in  the  place  quoted  above), 
in  which  he  says  concerning  the  Xdytn  of  Matthew, 
written  in  Hebrew,  'Eppgvtvat  ce  aura  dig  iei’n'ctra  itcct- 
gtoQj  “ But  every  one  interpreted  them  according  to  his 
ability.”  In  the  Greek  Church,  6 i^pygryg  and  iZgyi)- 
mi  too  Xoyou  were  the  usual  terms  for  teachers  of 
Christianity.  (See  Eusebius,  Historia  Ecclesiastica,  vii, 
30,  and  Ileinichen  on  this  passage,  note  21 ; Photius, 
Biblioth.  Cod.  p.  105 ; Cave,  Hist.  Liter,  i,  146).  Origeu 
called  his  commentary  on  the  holy  Scriptures  f^rjyijri- 
Kci ; and  Procopius  of  Gaza  wrote  a work  on  several 
books  of  the  Bible,  entitled  rryoXoi  f£rjyi;rifcnri.  How- 
ever, we  find  the  word  ippijvtia  employed  as  a synonyme 
of  i%i]yi](ng,  especially  among  the  inhabitants  of  Anti- 
och. For  instance,  Gregorius  Nyssenus  says  concern- 
ing Ephraem  Svrus,  Vpa<>»)v  0X7 jv  aKpifidig  Trpvg  X't^w 
iippi]7>twjtv  (see  Gregory  of  Nyssa,  Vita  Ephraimi  Byri, 
in  Opera,  Paris,  ii,  1033).  Theodore  of  Mopsuestia, 
Theodoret,  and  others,  wrote  commentaries  on  the  sacred 
Scriptures  under  the  title  of  ippijveta  (comp.  A.  H.  Nie- 
mever,  I)e  Isidoi'i  Pelusiotee  Vita,  Scriptis,  et  Doctrina, 
Hate,  1825,  p.  207). 

Among  the  Latin  Christians  the  word  interpres  had 
a wider  range  than  the  corresponding  Greek  term,  and 
the  Latins  had  no  precise  term  for  the  exposition  of  the 
Bible  which  exactly  corresponded  with  the  Greek.  The 
interpretatio  was  applied  only  in  the  sense  of  occupa- 
tion or  act  of  an  expositor  of  the  Bible,  but  not  in  the 
sense  of  contents  elicited  from  Biblical  passages.  The 
words  tractare,  tractator,  and  tractatus  were  in  prefer- 
ence employed  with  respect  to  Biblical  exposition,  and 
the  sense  which  it  elieited.  Together  with  these  words 
there  occur  commentarius  and  expositio.  In  reference 
to  the  exegetical  work  of  .St.  Hilary  on  Matthew,  the 
codices  fluctuate  between  commentarius  and  tractatus. 
St.  Augustine’s  tractatus  are  well  known ; and  this  fa- 
ther frequently  mentions  the  divinarum  scripturui~um 
tructatores.  For  instance,  Petr  act  atiimes,  1.  23,  “ Divi- 
norum  tractatores  eloqniorum;”  Sulpicius  Sever  us,  Dial. 
IV.— II  R 


i,  6,“Origines  . . . qui  tractator  sacromm  peritissimus 
habebatur.”  Vineeutius  Lirinensis  observes  in  his  Com- 
moratorium  on  1 Cor. xii,  28 : “In  the  third  place,  teach- 
ers who  are  now  ealled  tractatoi'es ; whom  the  same 
apostle  sometimes  styles  prophets,  because  by  them  the 
mysteries  of  the  prophets  are  opened  to  the  people” 
(comp.  Dufresne,  Glossarium  mediie,  et  infmee  Latinita- 
tis,  s.  vv.  Tractator,  Tractatus;  and  Baluze,  ad  Bervat. 
Lupum,  p.  479). 

However,  the  occupation  of  interpres,  in  the  nobler 
sense  of  this  word,  was  not  unknown  to  St.  Jerome,  as 
may  be  seen  from  his  Brief  alio  in  libros  Samuelis  (Opera, 
ed.Vallarsi,  ix,  459) : “ For  whatever,  by  frequently  trans- 
lating and  carefully  correcting,  we  have  learned  and  re- 
tain, is  our  own.  And  if  you  have  understood  what  you 
formerly  did  not  know,  consider  me  to  be  an  expositor 
if  you  are  grateful,  or  a paraplirast  if  you  are  ungrate- 
ful.” 

6.  In  modern  classification,  Hermeneutics  “forms  a 
branch  of  the  same  general  study  with  Exegesis  (q.v.), 
and,  indeed,  is  often  confounded  with  that  science;  but 
the  distinction  between  the  two  branches  is  very  mark- 
ed, and  is,  perhaps,  sufficiently  indicated  by  the  etymol- 
ogy of  the  names  themselves.  To  hermeneutics  prop- 
erly belongs  the  ‘ interpretation’  of  the  text — that  is,  the 
discovery  of  its  true  meaning;  the  province  of  exegesis 
is  the  ‘exposition’  of  the  meaning  so  discovered,  and  the 
practical  office  of  making  it  intelligible  to  others  in  its 
various  bearings,  scientific,  literal,  doctrinal,  and  moral. 
Hence,  although  the  laws  of  interpretation  have  many 
things  in  common  with  those  of  exposition,  it  may  be 
laid  down  that  to  the  especial  province  of  hermeneutics 
belongs  all  that  regards  the  text  and  interpretation  of 
the  Holy  Scripture  ; the  signification  of  words,  the  force 
and  significance  of  idioms,  the  modification  of  the  sense 
by  the  context,  and  the  other  details  of  philological  and 
grammatical  inquiry;  the  consideration  of  the  charac- 
ter of  the  writer  or  the  persons  whom  he  addressed ; of 
the  circumstances  in  which  he  wrote,  and  the  object  to 
which  his  work  was  directed ; the  comparison  of  paral- 
lel passages ; and  other  similar  considerations.  All  these 
inquiries,  although  seemingly  purely  literary,  are  modi- 
fied by  the  views  entertained  as  to  the  text  of  Holy 
Scripture,  and  especially  on  the  question  of  its  inspira- 
tion, and  the  nature  and  degree  of  such  inspiration” 
(Chambers,  Cyclopcedici). 

II.  History,  Methods,  and  Literature. — I.  From  ancient 
times  the  Church,  or  rather  ecclesiastical  bodies  and  re- 
ligious denominations,  have  taken  the  same  supernatu- 
ral view  with  reference  to  the  Bible,  as,  before  the  Church, 
the  Jews  did  with  respect  to  the  Old  Testament.  The 
Church  and  denominations  have  supposed  that  in  the 
authors  of  Biblical  books  there  did  not  exist  a litera- 
ry activity  of  the  same  kind  as  induces  men  to  write 
down  what  they  have  thought,  but  have  always  re- 
quired from  their  followers  the  belief  that  the  Biblical 
authors  wrote  in  a state  of  inspiration,  that  is  to  say, 
under  a peculiar  and  direct  influence  of  the  divine  Spir- 
it. Sometimes  the  Biblical  authors  were  described  to  be 
merely  external  and  mechanical  instruments  of  God’s 
revelation.  But,  however  wide  or  however  narrow  the 
boundaries  were  within  which  the  operation  of  God 
upon  the  writers  was  eonfined  by  ecclesiastical  supposi- 
tion, the  origin  of  the  Biblical  books  was  always  sup- 
posed to  be  essentially  different  from  the  origin  of  hu- 
man compositions;  and  this  difference  demanded  the 
application  of  peculiar  rules  in  order  to  understand  the 
Bible.  There  were  required  peculiar  arts  and  kinds  of 
information  in  order  to  discover  the  sense  and  contents 
of  books  which,  on  account  of  their  extraordinary  ori- 
gin, were  inaccessible  by  the  ordinary  way  of  logical 
rules,  and  whose  written  words  were  only  outward  signs, 
behind  which  a higher  and  divine  meaning  was  con- 
cealed. Consequently,  the  Church  and  denominations 
required  tZpygrai,  or  interpreters,  of  the  signs  by  means 
of  which  God  had  revealed  his  will.  Thus  necessarily 
arose  again  in  the  Christian  Church  the  art  of  opening 


620 


INTERPRETATION 


INTERPRETATION 


or  interpreting  the  supernatural,  which  art  had  an  ex-  i 
istence  in  earlier  religions,  but  with  this  essential  differ- 
ence, that  the  signs,  by  the  opening  of  which  supernat- 
ural truth  was  obtained,  were  now  more  simple,  and  or 
a more  intelligible  kind  than  in  earlier  religions.  They 
were  now  written  signs,  which  belonged  to  the  sphere 
of  speech  and  language,  through  which  alone  all  modes 
of  thinking  obtain  clearness,  and  can  be  readily  commu- 
nicated to  others.  But  the  holy  Scriptures,  in  which 
divine  revelation  was  preserved,  differ,  by  conveying  di- 
vine thoughts,  from  common  language  and  writing, 
which  convey  only  human  thoughts,  lienee  it  follow- 
ed that  its  sense  was  much  deeper,  and  far  exceeded  the 
usual  sphere  of  human  thoughts,  so  that  the  usual  req- 
uisites for  the  right  understanding  of  written  documents 
appeared  to  be  insufficient.  According  to  this  opinion, 
a lower  and  a higher  snise  of  the  Bible  were  distin- 
guished. The  lower  sense  was  that  which  could  be 
elicited  according  to  the  rules  of  grammar;  the  higher 
sense  was  considered  to  consist  of  deeper  thoughts  con- 
cealed under  the  grammatical  meaning  of  the  words. 
These  deeper  thoughts  they  endeavored  to  obtain  in  va- 
rious ways,  but  not  by  grammatical  research. 

The  Jews,  in  the  days  of  Jesus,  employed  for  this 
purpose  especially  the  typico-allegorical  interpretation. 
The  Jews  of  Palestine  endeavored  by  means  of  this 
mode,  of  interpretation  especially  to  elicit  the  secrets  of 
futurity,  which  were  said  to  be  fully  contained  in  the 
( )ld  Testament.  (See  Wrihncr,  .1  ntiquitates  Hebrceorum , 
Gottingie,  1748,  i,  341  sq. ; Dbpke,  Hermeneutik  der  neu- 
testamentlichen  Schriftsteller , Leipzig,  1*29,  p.  88  sq.,  1G4 
sq. ; Hirschfeld,  Der  Grist  der  Talmmlischen  A uslegung 
der  Bibel,  Berlin,  1840 ; compare  Juvenal,  Sat.  xiv,  103 ; 
Justin  Martyr,  Apol.  i,  p.  52,  G1 ; Bretschneidcr,  IJisto- 
risch-dogm at isch e A uslegung  d,  Xeuen  Testamentes , Leip- 
zig, 1800,  p.  35  sq.) 

The  Alexandrine  Jews,  on  the  contrary,  endeavored 
to  raise  themselves  from  the  simple  sense  of  the  words 
to  \pv\iKov,  to  a higher,  more  general,  and  spiritual 
sense,  to  irvtvpaTiKov  (see  Diiline,  Gesehiehtliche  Dar- 
stellung  d r Jiidisch-.  I lexandrinischen  Religious-Philoso- 
phic, Halle,  1834,  i,p.  52  sq. ; ii,  17, 195  sq.,  209, 228, 241). 
Similar  principles  were  adopted  by  the  authors  of  the 
New  Testament  (see  De  Wctte,  richer  die  Symbol isch- 
Typische  Lehrart  in  Briefe  an  die  llebraer,  in  the  The- 
ologische  Zeitschrift , by  Schleiermacher  and  De  Wette, 
pt.  iii ; Tholuck,  Beihtge  zum  Commentur  iiber  den  Brief 
an  die  llebraer,  1810). 

These  two  modes  of  interpretation,  the  allegorico-typ- 
ieal  and  the  allegorico-mystieal , are  found  in  the  Chris- 
tian writers  as  early  as  the  first  and  second  centuries ; 
the  latter  as  yvw uif,  the  former  as  a demonstration  that 
all  and  everything,  both  what  had  happened  and  what 
would  come  to  pass,  was  somehow  contained  in  the  sa- 
cred Scriptures  (see  Justin  Martyr,  Apol.  i,  p.  52,  Gl,  and 
Tertullian,  Adversus  Marcionem,  iv,  2,  “The  preaching 
of  the  disciples  might  appear  to  be  questionable,  if  it 
was  not  supported  by  other  authority’’). 

To  these  allegorical  modes  of  interpretation  was  added 
a third  mode,  which  necessarily  sprung  up  after  the  rise 
of  the  ( ’atholico-aposfolieal  Church,  namely,  the  dogmat- 
iral  or  theologiro-ecclesiastiral.  The  followers  of  the 
Catholico-apostolieal  Church  agreed  that  all  apostles 
and  all  apostolical  writings  had  an  equal  authority,  be- 
cause they  were  all  under  an  equal  guidance  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Hence  it  followed  that  they  could  not  set  forth 
cither contradictory  or  different  doctrines.  A twofold 
expedient  was  adopted  in  order  to  effect  harmony  of  in- 
terpretation. The  one  was  of  the  apparent  and  relative 
kind,  because  it  referred  to  subjects  which  appear  in- 
comprehensible only  to  the  confined  human  understand- 
ing, lint,  which  arc  in  perfect  harmony  in  the  divine 
thoughts.  Justin  (Dialogus  cum  Tryphone,  c.  Go)  says: 
“ Being  quite  certain  that  no  Scripture  contradicts  the 
other,  I will  rather  confess  that  1 do  not  understand 
what  is  said  therein.”  St. Chrysostom  restricted  this  as 
follows  (Ilomil.  iii,  e.  4,  in  Ep.  2 ad  Thessaloniccmes) : 


“ In  the  divine  writings  everything  is  intelligible  and 
plain,  whatever  is  necessary  is  open”  (compare  Homil. 
iii,  De  Lazciro,  and  Athanasii  0 ratio  contra  gentes,  in 
Opera,  i,  12). 

The  second  expedient  adopted  by  the  Church  was  to 
consider  certain  articles  of  faith  to  be  leading  doctrines, 
and  to  regulate  and  define  accordingly  the  sense  of  the 
Bible  wherever  it  appeared  doubtful  ahd  uncertain. 
This  led  to  the  theologico-ecclesiastical  or  dogmatical 
mode  of  interpretation,  which,  when  the  Christians  were 
divided  into  several  sects,  proved  to  be  indispensable  to 
the  Church,  but  which  adopted  various  forms  in  the  va- 
rious sects  by  which  it  was  employed.  Not  only  the 
heretics  of  ancient  times,  but  also  the  followers  of  the 
Roman  Catholic,  the  Greek  Catholic,  the  Syrian,  the 
Anglican,  the  Protestant  Church,  etc.,  have  endeavored 
to  interpret  the  Bible  in  harmony  with  their  dogmas. 

Besides  the  three  modes  of  interpretation  which  have 
been  mentioned  above,  theological  writers  have  spoken 
of  typical,  prophetical,  emphatical,  philosophical,  tradi- 
tional, moral , or  practical  interpretation.  But  all  these 
are  only  one-sided  developments  of  some  single  feature 
contained  in  the  above  three,  arbitrarily  chosen;  and, 
therefore,  they  cannot  be  considered  to  be  separate 
modes,  but  are  only  modifications  of  one  or  other  of 
those  three.  The  interpretation  in  which  all  these 
modes  are  brought  into  harmony  has  lately  been  called 
the  panharmonical,  which  word  is  not  very  happily 
chosen  (F.  H.  Germar,  Die  ranbarmonische  Interpreta- 
tion der  Ileiligen  Schrifi,  Lpz.  1821 ; and  by  the  same 
author,  Britrag  zur  Allgemeinen  Hermeneutik,  Altona, 
1828). 

The  interpretation  which,  in  spite  of  all  ecclesiastical 
opposition,  ought  to  be  adopted  as  being  the  only  true  one, 
strictly  adheres  to  the  demands  of  general  hermeneutics, 
to  which  it  adds  those  particular  hermeneutical  rules 
which  meet  the  requisites  of  particular  cases.  This 
has,  in  modern  times,  been  styled  the  historico-gram- 
matical  mode  of  interpretation.  This  appellation  has 
been  chosen  because  the  epithet  grammatical  seems  to 
be  too  naiTow  and  too  much  restricted  to  the  mere  ver- 
bal sense.  It  might  be  more  correct  to  style  it  simply 
the  historical  interpretation,  since  the  word  “historical” 
comprehends  everything  that  is  requisite  to  be  known 
about  the  language,  the  turn  of  mind,  the  individuality, 
etc.,  of  an  author  in  order  to  rightly  understand  his 
book.  This  method,  the  origin  of  which  has  been  traced 
to  Sender  (Vorbereitung  z.  d.  theol.  llermeneut.  1762),  is 
liable,  however,  to  degenerate  into  Rationalism  (Farrar, 
History  of  Free  Thought,  p.  22),  unless  guarded  by  the 
spirit  of  evangelical  piety. 

The.different  modes  of  interpreting  the  Bible  which 
have  generally  obtained  are,  according  to  what  we  have 
stated,  essentially  the  following  three : the  grammati- 
cal, the  allegorical,  the  dogmatical.  The  gram- 
matical mode  of  interpretation  simply  investigates  the 
sense  contained  in  the  words  of  the  Bible.  The  alle- 
gorical, according  to  Quintilian’s  sentence,  “Aliud  ver- 
bis, aliud  sensu  oaten  do,”  maintains  that  the  -words  of 
the  Bible  have,  besides  their  simple  sense,  another 
which  is  concealed  as  behind  a picture,  and  endeavors 
to  find  out  this  supposed  figurative  sense,  which,  it  is 
said,  was  not  intended  by  the  authors  (see  Olshausen, 
Tin  Wort  iiber  tieferen  Schriftsinn,  Konigsberg,  1824). 
1 he  dogmatical  mode  of  interpretation  endeavors  to  ex- 
plain the  Bible  in  harmony  with  the  dogmas  of  the 
Church,  following  the  principle  of  analogia  fdei.  Com- 
pare Concilii  Trident  ini,  Session  iv,  decret.  ii:  “Let  no 
one  venture  to  interpret  the  holy  Scriptures  in  a sense 
contrary  to  that  which  the  holy  mother  Church  has 
held,  and  does  hold,  and  which  has  the  power  of  decid- 
ing what  is  the  true  sense  and  the  right  interpretation 
of  the  holy  Scriptures.”  So  also  Rambach.  Institntiones 
J/crmenenticee  Sacrtr  (Jente,  1723) : “ The  authority 
which  this  analogy  of  faith  exercises  upon  interpreta- 
tion consists  in  this,  that  it  is  the  foundation  and  gen- 
eral principle  according  to  the  rule  of  which  all  scrip- 


INTERPRETATION 


G27 


INTERPRETATION 


tural  interpretations  are  to  be  tried  as  by  a touchstone.” 
Art.  xx  of  the  Anglican  Church : “ It  is  not  lawful  for 
the  Church  to  ordain  anything  that  is  contrary  to  God’s 
word  written,  neither  may  it  expound  one  place  of 
Scripture  so  as  to  be  repugnant  to  another.”  Scotch 
Confession,  art.  xviii : “We  dare  not  admit  any  inter- 
pretation which  contradicts  any  leading  article  of  faith, 
or  any  plant  text  of  Scripture,  or  the  rule  of  charity,” 
etc. 

2.  The  allegorical,  as  well  a?  the  dogmatical  mode  of 
interpretation,  presupposes  the  grammatical,  which  con- 
sequently forms  the  basis  of  the  other  two,  so  that 
neither  the  one  nor  the  other  can  exist  entirely  without 
it.  lienee  the  grammatical  mode  of  interpretation  must 
have  a historical  precedence  before  the  others.  But 
history  also  proves  that  the  Church  has  constantly  en- 
deavored to  curtail  the  province  of  grammatical  inter- 
pretation, to  renounce  it  as  much  as  possible,  and  to  rise 
above  it.  If  we  follow,  with  the  examining  eye  of  a 
historical  inquirer,  the  course  in  which  these  three 
modes  of  interpretation,  in  their  mutual  dependence 
upon  each  other,  have  generally  been  applied,  it  becomes 
evident  that  in  opposition  to  the  grammatical  mode,  the 
allegorical  was  first  set  up.  Subsequently,  the  allegori- 
cal was  almost  entirely  supplanted  by  the  dogmatical; 
but  it  started  up  with  renewed  vigor  when  the  dogmati- 
cal mode  rigorously  confined  the  spiritual  movement  of 
the  human  intellect,  as  well  as  all  religious  sentiment, 
within  the  too  narrow  bounds  of  dogmatical  despotism. 
The  dogmatical  mode  of  interpretation  could  only  spring 
up  after  the  Church,  renouncing  the  original  multiplici- 
ty of  opinions,  had  agreed  upon  certain  leading  doctrines; 
after  which  time  it  grew,  together  with  the  Church, into 
a mighty  tree,  towering  high  above  every  surrounding 
object,  and  casting  its  shade  over  everything.  The  long- 
ing desire  for  light  and  warmth,  of  those  who  -were  spell- 
bound under  its  shade,  induced  them  to  cultivate  again 
the  allegorical  and  the  grammatical  interpretation : but 
they  were  unable  to  bring  the  fruits  of  these  modes  to 
full  maturity.  Every  new  intellectual  revolution,  and 
every  spiritual  development  of  nations,  gave  a.  new  im- 
pulse to  grammatical  interpretation.  This  impulse  last- 
ed until  interpretation  was  again  taken  captive  by  the 
overwhelming  ecclesiastical  power,  whose  old  formali- 
ties had  regained  strength,  or  which  had  been  renovated 
under  new  forms.  Grammatical  interpretation,  conse- 
quently, goes  hand  in  hand  with  the  principle  of  spiritu- 
al progress,  and  the  dogmatical  with  the  conservative 
principle.  Finally,  the  allegorical  interpretation  is  as 
an  artificial  aid  subservient  to  the  conservative  princi- 
ple, when,  by  its  vigorous  stability,  the  latter  exercises  a 
too  unnatural  pressure.  This  is  confirmed  by  the  his- 
tory of  all  times  and  countries,  so  that  we  may  confine 
ourselves  to  the  following  few  illustrative  observations. 

The  various  tendencies  of  the  first  Christian  period 
were  combined  in  the  second  century,  so  that  the  prin- 
ciple of  one  general  (Catholic)  Church  was  gradually 
adopted  by  most  parties.  But  now  it  became  rather 
diflieult  to  select,  from  the  variety  of  doctrines  prevalent 
in  various  sects,  those  by  the  application  of  which  to 
Biblical  interpretation  a perfect  harmony  and  systemat- 
ical unity  could  be  effected.  Nevertheless,  the  wants 
of  science  powerfully  demanded  a systematic  arrange- 
ment of  Biblical  doctrines,  even  before  a general  agree- 
ment upon  dogmatical  principles  had  been  effected.  The 
■wants  of  science  were  especially  felt  among  the  Alexan- 
drine Christians;  and  in  Alexandria,  where  the  allegori- 
cal interpretation  had  from  ancient  times  been  practiced, 
it  offered  the  desired  expedient  which  met  the  exigency 
of  the  Church.  Hence  it  may  naturally  be  explained 
why  the  Alexandrine  theologians  of  the  second  and 
third  century,  particidarly  Clemens  Alexandrines  and 
Origen,  interpreted  allegorically,  and  why  the  allegori- 
cal interpretation  was  perfected,  and  in  vogue,  even  be- 
fore the  dogmatical  came  into  existence.  Origen,  es- 
pecially in  his  fourth  book,  Be  Principiis , treats  on  scrip- 
tural interpretation,  using  the  following  arguments:  The 


holy  Scriptures,  inspired  by  God,  form  a harmonious 
■whole,  perfect  in  itself,  without  any  defects  and  contra- 
dictions, and  containing  nothing  that  is  insignificant 
and  superfluous.  The  grammatical  interpretation  leads 
to  obstacles  and  objections  which,  according  to  the  quali- 
ty just  stated  of  the  holy  Scriptures,  are  inadmissible 
and  impossible.  Now,  since  the  merely  grammatical  in- 
terpretation can  neither  remove  nor  overcome  these  ob- 
jections, we  must  seek  for  an  expedient  beyond  the 
boundaries  of  grammatical  interpretation.  The  alle- 
gorical interpretation  offers  this  expedient,  and  conse- 
quently is  above  the  grammatical.  Origen  observes 
that  man  consists  of  body,  soul,  and  spirit  ; and  he  dis- 
tinguishes a triple  sense  of  the  holy  Scriptures  analo- 
gous to  this  division  {Be  Princip.  iv,  108;  comp.  Klausen, 
Ilermeneutilc  des  Ntuen  Testumenies , Leipzig,  1841,  p.  104 
sq.). 

Since,  however,  allegorical  interpretation  cannot  be 
reduced  to  settled  rules,  but  always  depends  upon  the 
greater  or  less  influence  of  imagination  ; and  since  the 
system  of  Christian  doctrines,  which  the  Alexandrine 
theologians  produced  by  means  of  allegorical  interpreta- 
tion, -was  in  many  respects  objected  to;  and  since,  in  op- 
position to  these  Alexandrine  theologians,  there  was 
gradually  established,  and  more  and  more  firmly  defined, 
a system  of  Christian  doctrines  which  formed  a firm  basis 
for  uniformity  of  in terpretation,  in  accordance  with  the 
mind  of  the  majority,  there  gradually  sprung  up  a dog- 
matical mode  of  interpretation  founded  upon  the  inter- 
pretation of  ecclesiastical  teachers,  which  had  been  rec- 
ognised as  orthodox  in  the  Catholic  Church.  This  dog- 
matical interpretation  has  been  in  perfect  existence  since 
the  beginning  of  the  fourth  century,  and  then  more  and 
more  supplanted  the  allegorical,  which  henceforward  was 
left  to  the  wit  and  ingenuity  of  a few  individuals.  Thus 
St.  Jerome,  about  A. I).  400,  could  say  {Comment,  in  M al- 
ack. i,  16) : “ The  rule  of  Scripture  is,  where  there  is  a 
manifest  prediction  of  future  events,  rot  to  enfeeble  that 
which  is  written  by  the  uncertainty  cf  allegory.”  Dur- 
ing the  whole  of  the  fourth  century,  the  ecclesiastico- 
dogmatical  mode  of  interpretation  was  developed  with 
constant  reference  to  the  grammatical.  Even  Hilary, 
in  his  book  Be  Trinitate , i,  properly  asserts : “ He  is  the 
best  reader  who  rather  expects  to  obtain  sense  from  the 
words  than  imposes  it  upon  them,  and  who  carries  more 
away  than  he  has  brought,  nor  forces  that  upon  the 
words  which  he  had  resolved  to  understand  before  he  be- 
gan to  read.” 

After  the  commencement  of  the  fifth  century,  gram- 
matical interpretation  fell  entirely  into  decay;  which 
ruin  was  effected  partly  by  the  full  development  of  the 
ecclesiastical  system  of  doctrines  defined  in  all  their 
parts,  and  by  a fear  of  deviating  from  this  system,  partly 
also  by  the  continually  increasing  ignorance  of  the  lan- 
guages in  which  the  Bible  was  written.  The  primary 
I condition  of  ecclesiastical  or  dogmatical  interpretation 
was  then  most  clearly  expressed  by  Yineentius  Lirinen- 
sis  {Commonit.  i) : “Since  the  holy  Scriptures,  on  ac- 
count of  their  depth,  are  not  understood  by  all  in  the 
same  manner,  but  their  sentences  are  understood  differ- 
ently by  different  persons,  so  that  they  might  seem  to 
admit  as  many  meanings  as  there  are  men,  we  must  well 
take  care  that  within  the  pale  of  the  Catholic  Church 
we  hold  fast  what  has  been  believed  everywhere,  always, 
and  by  all”  (Compare  Commonit.  ii,  ed.  Bremcnsis,  1688, 
p.  321  sq.).  Henceforward  interpretation  was  confined 
to  the  mere  collection  of  explanations,  which  had  first 
been  given  by  men  whose,  ecclesiastical  orthodoxy  was 
unquestionable.  “It  is  better  not  to  be  imbued  with  the 
pretended  novelty,  but  to  be  filled  from  the  fountain 
of  the  ancients”  (Cassidori  Inatitutiones  Birina’,  Fraff. 
Compare  Aleuini  Epistola  ad  Gislam,  in  Opera,  ed. 
Frobcnius,  i,  464;  Comment,  in  Joh.,  Prcpf.,  ib.  p.  460; 
Claudius  Turon.  Prolegoinena  in  Comment,  in  libros  Re- 
gum;  Haymo,  Ilisforia  Eeeleniastica, ix,  3,  etc.).  Doubt- 
ful cases  were  decided  according  to  the  precedents  of  ec- 
clesiastical definitions.  “ In  passages  which  may  be 


INTERPRETATION 


628 


INTERREGNUM 


either  doubtful  or  obscure,  we  might  know  that  we 
should  follow  that  which  is  found  to  be  neither  contrary 
to  evangelical  precepts,  nor  opposed  to  the  decrees  of 
liolv  men”  (Uenedieti  Capituhira , iii,  58,  in  Pert/.,  Mon- 
ument a Veteris  German.  Ulster,  iv,  2,  p.  107). 

During  the  whole  period  of  the  Middle  Ages  the  al- 
legorical interpretation  again  prevailed.  The  Middle 
A«-es  were  more  distinguished  by  sentiment  than  by 
clearness,  and  the  allegorical  interpretation  gave  satis- 
faction to  sentiment  and  occupation  to  free  mental  spec- 
ulation. The  typical  system  of  miracle-plays  (q.v.) 
and  the  Biblia  Pauperum  exactly  illustrate  the  spirit 
of  allegorical  interpretation  in  the  Middle  Ages.  But 
men  like  bishop  Agobardus  (A.D.  840,  in  Gallandii  Bibl. 
xiii,  p.  440),  Johannes  Scot  us,  Erigena,  Druthmar,  Nico- 
laus Lyranus,  Roger  Bacon,  and  others,  acknowledged 
the  necessity  of  grammatical  interpretation,  and  were 
only  wanting  in  the  requisite  means,  and  in  knowledge, 
for  putting  it  successfully  into  practice. 

When,  in  the  fifteenth  century,  classical  studies  had 
revived,  they  exercised  also  a favorable  influence  upon 
Biblical  interpretation,  and  restored  grammatical  inter- 
pretation to  honor.  It  was  especially  by  grammatical 
interpretation  that  the  domineering  Catholic  Church 
was  combated  at  the  Reformation ; hut  as  soon  as  the 
newly -arisen  Protestant  Church  had  been  dogmatically 
established,  it  began  to  consider  grammatical  interpre- 
tation a dangerous  adversary  of  its  own  dogmas,  and 
opposed  it  as  much  as  did  the  Roman  Catholics  them- 
selves. From  the  middle  of  the  16th  to  the  middle  of 
the  18th  century  this  important  ally  of  Protestantism 
was  subjected  to  the  artificial  law  of  a new  dogmati- 
cal interpretation,  while  the  Roman  Catholic  Church 
changed  the  principle  of  interpretation  formerly  ad- 
vanced by  Vincentius  into  an  ecclesiastical  dogma.  In 
consequence  of  this  new  oppression,  the  religious  senti- 
ment, which  had  frequently  been  wounded  both  among 
Roman  Catholics  and  Protestants,  took  refuge  in  alle- 
gorical interpretation,  which  then  reappeared  under  the 
forms  of  typical  and  mystical  theology. 

After  the  beginning  of  the  18th  century  grammatical 
interpretation  recovered  its  authority.  It  was  then  first 
reintroduced  by  the  Armiuians,  and,  in  spite  of  constant 
attacks,  towards  the  conclusion  of  that  century,  it  de- 
cidedly prevailed  among  the  German  Protestants.  It 
exercised  a very  beneficial  influence,  although  it  cannot 
be  denied  that  manifold  errors  occurred  in  its  applica- 
tion. During  the  last  half  century  both  Protestants  and 
Roman  Catholics  have  again  curtailed  the  rights  and  in- 
vaded the  province  of  grammatical  interpretation  by 
promoting  (according  to  the  general  reaction  of  our 
times)  the  opposing  claims  of  dogmatical  and  mystical 
interpretation.  Comp.  J.  Rosenmuller,  1 7 istoria  Inter- 
pret at ienis  Librorum  sacrorum  in  Ecclesia  Christiana , 
Lipsi;e,  1 795-1814,  5 vols. ; Van  Mildert, . 1 n Inquiry  into 
the  General  Principles  of  Scripture  Interpretation , in 
Kitjhi  Sermons,  etc.  (Oxford,  IS  Pi);  Meyer,  Geschickte 
(hr  SchriJ'terkldruny  seif  dor  Wiederherstelluny  der  B'ts- 
senschaftm  (Gottingen,  1802-6, 5 vols.);  Simon,  /listoire 
Critique  des  prinripaux  Com  went  a tears  du  Nouv.  Test. 
(Rotterdam,  16!):}) ; E.  F.  K.  Rosenm idler,  H andbuch  fii’r 
die  Literatnr  der  Biblischen  Kritik  und  Exeqesc  ( Gott. 
17!)7  1800,-1  vols.). 

3.  In  accordance  with  the  various  notions  concerning 
Biblical  interpretation  which  we  have  stated,  there  have 
been  produced  Biblical  hermeneutics  of  very  different 
kinds;  for  instance, in  the  earlier  period  we  might  men- 
tion that  of  the  Donatist  Ticonius,  who  wrote  about  the 
fourth  century  his  Require  ad  inrestiyandam  et  inrenien- 
dam  intelliyentiam  Script nra rum  septem ; Augustinus, 
Be  Doctrine  Christiana,  lib.  i,  3;  Isidores  Hispalensis, 
Undent.  41!)  sq. ; Santis  Pagnini  (who  died  in  1541), 
Isay oy a ad  mysticos  Sacra : Scriptime  sensus,  libri  octo- 
decim  (Colon.  1540);  Sixti  Seucnsis  (who  died  1599), 
Bibliotheca  Sancta  (Venotiis,  1566.  Of  this  work, 
which  has  frequently  been  reprinted,  there  belongs  to 
our  present  subject  only  Liber  tertian,  A rtem  exponendi 


Sancta  Script  a Catholicis  Expositoribus  aptissimis  Reg- 
ulis  et  Exemplis  ostendens.)  At  a later  period  the  Ro- 
man Catholics  added  to  these  the  works  of  Goldhagen 
(Mainz,  1765),  Bellarmine,  Martianay,  Calmet,  and,  more 
recently,  Seem  tiller’s  llermeneutica  *S'aem(1799) ; Mavr’s 
Institutio  Interp.  Sacri  (1789) ; Jahn’s  Enchiridion  ller- 
men.  (Vienna,  1812) ; Arigler’s  llermeneutica  Generalis 
(Vienna,  1813) ; Unterkircher’s  llermeneutica  Biblica 
(1831)  ; Ranolder,  Ilerm,  Bibl.  Principia  Rationalia 
(Fiinf  Kirchen,  1838) ; Schnittler,  Grundlinien  der  Her - 
meneutik  (Ratisbon,  1844) ; Glaire’s  llermeneutica  Sacra 
(1840). 

On  the  part  of  the  Lutherans  were  added  by  Flaeius, 
Claris  Scriptures  Sacra:  (Basileae,  1537,  and  often  re- 
printed in  two  volumes);  by  Johann  Gerhard,  Tractatus 
dc  Leyitima  Script.  Sacra:  Interpret atione  (Jeiue,  1610); 
by  Solomon  Glassius,  Philoloyice  Sacrce  libri  quinque 
(Jente,  1623,  and  often  reprinted)  ; by  Jacob  liambach, 
Insiitutiones  llermeneuticce  Saci-ce  (Jenie,  1723). 

On  the  part  of  the  Calvinists  there  were  furnished  by 
Turretin,  Be  Scriptures  Sacrce  Interpret  atione  Tractatus 
Bipartitus  (Dordrecht,  1723,  and  often  reprinted).  In 
the  English  Church  were  produced  by  Herbert  Marsh 
Lectures  on  the  Criticism  and  Interpretation  of  the  Bible 
(Cambridge,  1828). 

Since  tlie  middle  of  the  last  century  it  has  been  usual 
to  treat  on  the  Old -Testament  hermeneutics  and  on 
those  of  the  New  Testament  in  separate  works:  for  in- 
stance, Meyer,  Versuch  einer  Henneneutik  des  Alien  Tes- 
tamentes  (Ltibeck,  1799);  Pareau,  Institutio  Interprets 
Veteris  Testamenti  (Trajeeti,  1822);  Ernest i,  Institutio 
Interprets  Mori  Testamenti  (Lipsue,  1761,  ed.  5ta.,  eu- 
rante  Ammon,  1809;  translated  into  English  by  Tcrrot, 
Edinburgh,  1833);  Morns,  Super  llermeneutica  Novi 
Testamenti  acrouses  academics  (ed.  Eichstiidt,  Lipsiie, 
1797-1802,  in  two  volumes,  but  not  completed);  Keil, 
Lehrbuch  der  Hermeneutik  des  Neuen  Testumentes,  nach 
Grundsatzen  der  yrammatisch-historischen  I hterpretation 
(Leipzig,  1810;  the  same  work  in  Latin,  Lipsiiv,  1811); 
Conybeare,  The  Bampton  Lectures  for  the  year  1824,  be- 
ing an  attempt  to  trace  the  History  and  to  ascertain  the 
limits  of  the  secondary  and  spiritual  Interpretation  of 
Scripture  (Oxford,  1824) ; Schleie-maelier,  Hermeneutik 
und  Kritik  mit  bc-sonderer  Beziehuny  uuf  das  Neue  Tes- 
tament (edited  by  Liicke,  Berlin,  1838).  The  most  com- 
plete is  Klausen,  Hermeneutik  des  Neuen  Testumentes 
(from  the  Danish,  Leipzig,  1841) ; Wilke,  Die  Herme- 
neutik  des  Neuen  Testumentes  systematisch  daryestellt 
(Leipzig,  1843);  S.  Davidson’s  Sacred  Hermeneutics  de- 
veloped and  applied;  including  a History  of  Biblical 
Interpretation  from  the  earliest  of  the  Fathers  to  the  Ref- 
ormation (Edinburgh,  1843). 

For  lists  of  other  works  on  the  subject,  see  Waleh,  Bib- 
liotheca Theoloyica , iv,  206  sq.;  Danz,  Universal  Wurter- 
buch,  p.  384  sq. ; Append,  p.  46;  Darling,  Cyclopcedia 
Biblioyraphica,  ii,  31  stj. ; Malcolm,  Theological  Index,  p. 
218. 

Interregnum.  The  interregnum  from  the  time 
of  the  execution  of  Charles  1 to  the  accession  of  Charles 
II  to  the  throne  of  England  is  one  of  the  most  impor- 
tant periods  in  the  ecclesiastical  history  of  that  country. 
It  was  during  this  period  that  the  Episcopal  Church, 
“which  had  been  reared  by  the  wealtli  and  power  of 
the  state,  and  cemented  with  the  tears  and  blood  of 
dissentients,”  was  hurled  to  the  ground,  and  Presbyte- 
rianism, and  for  a time  even  Congregationalism,  gained 
the  aseendenev.  But,  to  the  justice  of  the  latter,  it 
must  be  said  tiiat  the  Congregationalists,  or,  rather,  the 
Independents,  never  actually  sought  to  establish  their 
religion  as  the  religion  of  the  state,  while  Presbyterian- 
ism struggled  hard  to  enforce  uniformity  to  her  creed. 
Stoughton  says  (in  his  Eccles.  Hist,  of  England  since  the 
Restoration,  i,  49),  “It  was  with  Presbyterianism  thus 
situated,  rather  than  with  Independency,  or  any  other 
ecclesiastical  systems,  that  Episcopacy  came  first  into 
competition  and  conflict  after  the  king’s  (Charles  II) 
return.”  Some  writers  deny  the  possibility  of  an  inter- 


INTOLERANCE 


INTERROGATIONES  MARINE  C29 


regnum  in  the  English  government  as  it  then  existed, 
because,  say  they,  “ there  can  be  legally  no  interregnum 
in  a hereditary  monarchy  like  that  ol'England,"  and  hold 
that  the  reign  of  Charles  II  is  “always  computed  in  le- 
gal language  as  commencing  at  the  execution  of  Charles 
I.”  See  Bogue  and  Bennet  t,  Hist,  of  Dissenters  (2d  cd. 
Lond.  1839,  i,  68  sq.  See  also  England,  Church  of; 
Independents;  Presbyterians.  (J. II.  W.) 

Interrogationea  Marlas,  an  apocryphal  work. 
See  Pseudograph. 

Interstitia  Temporum.  The  Council  of  Sar- 
dica  established  the  principle  “Potest  per  has  promo- 
tiones  (i.  e.  to  consecrate),  qua1  habebant  utique  prolixum 
tempus,  probari,  qua  fide  sit,  qua  modestia,  qua  gravi- 
tate et  verecundia,  et  si  dignus  fuerit  probatus,  divino 
sacerdotio  illustretur,  quia  conveniens  non  cst,  nee  ratio 
vel  disciplina  patitur,  ut  temere  et  leviter  ordinctur 
episcopus  aut  presbyter  aut  diaconus  . . . sed  hi,  quo- 
rum per  lonyam  tempus  examinata  sit  vita  et  merita  J ue- 
rint  cow  probata."  Consequently  every  member  of  the 
clergy  was  obliged  to  spend  a preparatory  interval  (in- 
terstitium)  before  he  could  be  promoted  from  a lower  to 
a higher  order  ( ordo ) ( Dist . 59,  c.  2).  This  principle 
was  also  observed  concerning  the  consecration  for  the 
lower  orders  of  the  priesthood  while  special  ecclesiasti- 
cal functions  were  attached  to  them,  but,  as  their  ear- 
lier character  changed,  the  discipline  also  became  more 
lax  as  regards  the  time  of  probation  (see  Dist.  77,  c.  2, 
3,  9).  After  the  consecration  to  these  lower  offices  had 
come  to  be  considered  a mere  formality  for  the  transi- 
tion to  higher  onlines,  the  observation  of  these  proba- 
tions was  also  neglected.  The  Council  of  Trent  at- 
tempted to  restore  the  old  customs  concerning  the  lower 
degrees  of  the  priesthood  (c.  17,  Sess.  23,  De  Reform.), 
and  stated  expressly  that  “per  temporum  interstitia, 
nisi  aliud  cpiscopo  expedire  magis  viderctur,  conferan- 
tur,  nt  . . . in  unoquoque  munere  juxta  pra?scriptnm 
episcopi  se  exerceant”  (c.  11,  etc.);  yet  this  had  but 
little  or  no  effect,  and  it  is  even  usual  in  some  Roman 
Catholic  countries  to  confer  at  once  the  tonsure  and  all 
the  lower  orders.  The  Council  of  Trent  decided  also 
that  between  the  lower  consecration  and  the  higher, 
and  between  each  of  these,  there  should  be  an  interval 
of  one  year,  “ nisi  necessitas  aut  ecclesice  utilitas  aliud 
cxposcat”  (c.  11,  13,  14,  etc.),  but  that  “duo  sacri  onli- 
nes non  eodem  die,  etiam  regularibus,  conferantur,  priv- 
ilegiis  ac  induhis  quibusvis  concessis  non  obstantibus 
qnibuscunque”  (c.  13,  etc. ; compare  also  c.  13, 15,  X.  De 
temp.  ord.  i,  1 1 ; c.  2,  X.  De  eo  qvi  furtiv.  v,  30).  These 
years  of  interval  are  computed,  not  according  to  the  cal- 
endar, but  according  to  the  Church  year.  With  regard 
to  the  right  of  dispensation  conceded  to  the  bishops  by 
the  Council  of  Trent  (e.  11,  cit.),  the  Conyreyatio  Con- 
cilii  decided  that  the  simultaneous  administration  of  the 
ordines  minores  and  the  subdeaconship  is  a punishable  [ 
offence  (No.  1,  ad  c.  11,  cit.  in  the  edition  of  Schulte  and 
Richter).  See  Tliomassen,  Yet.  et  nov.  eccl.  discipl.  i,  2, 
c.  35,  36;  Van  Espen,  Jus  eccl.  nnirers.  i,  1,  c.  2 ; ii,  9,  | 
c.  5;  Phillips,  Kirchenrecht,  i,  648  sq. ; Herzog,  Real- 
Eneyklopadie,  vi,  707. 

Intervals.  See  Interstitia. 

Interventores.  See  Intercessores. 

Inthronization  is  the  ceremony  of  installing  a 
bishop  on  the  episcopal  seat  immediately  after  his  con-  , 
sccration.  It  is  said  that  in  the  early  times  of  the 
Church  it  was  customary  for  the  bishop,  after  taking 
possession  of  his  seat,  to  address  the  congregation,  and 
this  address  was  called  the  Inthronization  sermon.  To 
the  provincials  under  his  control  he  addressed  instead 
letters  containing  his  confession  of  faith,  intended  to 
establish  communications  with  them  : these  were  called 
Inthronization  letters  (Bingham,  Oriy.  Eccles.  1.  ii,  c.  xi, 

§ 10).  Inthronization  money  is  the  sum  of  money  paid 
by  some  prelates  for  the  purpose  of  securing  their  ordi- 
nation.— Bcrgier,  Diet,  de,  Theol.  iii,  438. 

Intinction  is  a name  for  one  of  the  three  modes  in 


which  the  sacrament  is  administered  to  the  laity  of  the 
Eastern  Church  (comp.  Xeale,  fntrod.  East.  Church,  p. 
525),  viz.,  by  breaking  the  consecrated  bread  into  the 
consecrated  wine,  and  giving  to  each  communicant  the 
two  elements  together  in  a spoon,  to  prevent  the  possi- 
bility of  a loss  of  either  clement.  Some  Greek  litur- 
gical writers  assert  that  the  practice  of  intinction  was 
introduced  by  Chrysostom  himself  (which  Neale  ap- 
proves), but  the  traditional  evidence  adduced  does  net 
well  support  this  assertion;  and  the  fact,  which  seems  to 
be  pretty  well  established,  that  the  two  elements  were 
of  old  administered  by  two  persons,  and  not  by  one  onl}', 
as  is  done  at  present,  makes  it  doubtful  whether  their  ad- 
mixture for  communion  was  ever  the  ordinary  practice. 
Bona  ( Rerum  Littery.  II,  xviii,  3),  however,  says  that  it 
was  forbidden  by  Julius  1 (A. I).  337-352),  whose  decree, 
as  given  by  Gratian  (Distinct,  ii,  c.  7),  speaks  of  it  as  a 
practice  not  warranted  by  the  Gospel,  in  which  Christ  is 
represented  as  giving  first  his  body  and  then  his  blood 
to  the  apostles;  and,  if  this  decree  is  authentic.it  goes 
to  prove  that  the  practice  was  known  during  Chrysos- 
tom’s time.  The  third  Council  of  Braga  (A.I).  675)  de- 
creed against  it  in  their  first  canon  in  the  identical  words 
used  by  Julius  I:  “Illud,  quod  pro  complcmento  com- 
munionis  intinctam  tradunt  eucliaristiam  populis,  nec 
hoc  probatum  ex  evangelio  testimonium  recipit,  ubi 
apostolis  corpus  sumn  et  sanguinem  cominendavit ; se- 
orsum  enim  panis  et  seorsum  calicis  commendatio  mc- 
moratur.  Nam  intinctum  panem  aliis  Christum  non 
pnebuisse  legimus  excepto  illo  tantum  discipulo,  quern 
proditorem  ostenderet."  Micrologus  (c.  xix)  asserts  that 
the  practice  contradicted  the  primitive  canon  of  the  Ro- 
man liturgy,  but  this  certainly  cannot  go  to  prove  the 
time  of  its  introduction  into  the  Eastern  Church.  In 
the  11th  century  it  was  forbidden  by  pope  Urban  II 
(A.D.  1088-1099),  except  in  cases  of  necessity;  and  his 
successor,  Pascal  II,  forbade  it.  altogether,  and  ordered 
in  cases  where  difficulty  of  swallowing  the  solid  element 
occurred,  to  administer  the  fluid  element  alone.  Bona, 
however,  quotes  from  Ivo  of  Chartres  about  this  time  a 
canon  of  a Council  of  Tours,  in  which  priests  arc  order- 
ed to  keep  the  reserved  oblation  “intincta  in  sanguine 
Christi,  ut  veraciter  Presbyter  possit  dicere  infirmo,  Cor- 
pus, et  Sanguis  Domini  nostri  Jesu  Christi  proficiat  tibi 
in  remissionem  peccatorum  et  vitam  aderoam.”  The 
Convocation  of  Canterbury  (A.D.  1175)  expressed  itself 
opposed  to  the  practice  of  intinction  in  the  following 
plain  language:  “Inhibemus  lie  quis  quasi  pro  comple- 
mento  communionis  intinctam  alicui  Eucliaristiam  tra- 
dat.”  But  from  the  word  complementum  the  practice  for- 
bidden seems  to  have  been  as  much  the  consumption  of 
the  superabundant  elements  by  the  laity  (directed  in 
one  of  the  modern  rubrics  of  the  Church  of  England)  as 
that  of  intinction.  There  can  be  no  doubt,  however, 
that  the  Western  Church  always  stood  committed  against 
the  practice,  though  some  think  that  traces  of  it  can  be 
found,  c.  g.  in  the  ancient  Irish  Visitation  Office,  written 
about  the  8tli  century,  and  which  was  published  by  Hir 
William  Bentliam  (comp.  Hart,  Eccles.  Records,  In  trod, 
xiv). — Blunt,  Theol.  Diet,  i,  355.  See  Concomitant. 

1 Intolerance  is  a word  chiefly  used  in  reference  to 
| those  persons,  churches,  or  societies  who  do  not  allow 
I men  to  think  for  themselves,  but  impose  on  them  arti- 
cles, creeds,  ceremonies,  etc.,  of  their  own  devising.  See 
Toleration. 

Nothing  is  more  abhorrent  from  the  genius  of  the 
Christian  religion  than  an  intolerant  spirit  or  an  intol- 
erant church.  “It  has  inspired  its  votaries  with  a sav- 
age ferocity;  has  plunged  the  fatal  dagger  into  inno- 
cent blood;  depopulated  towns  and  kingdoms;  over- 
thrown! states  and  empires,  and  brought  down  the  right- 
eous vengeance  of  heaven  upon  a guilty  world.  The 
pretence  of  superior  knowledge,  sanctity,  end  authority 
for  its  support  is  the  disgrace  of  reason,  the  grit  f of  wi  - 
dom,  and  the  paroxysm  of  folly.  To  fetter  the  con- 
science is  injustice;  to  insnare  it  is  an  act  of  sacrilege; 
I but  to  torture  it  by  an  attempt  to  force  its  feelings  is 


IXTORCETTA 


630 


INTRODUCTION 


horrible  intolerance-,  it  is  the  most  abandoned  violation 
of  all  the  maxims  of  religion  and  morality.  Jesus  Christ 
formed  a kingdom  purely  spiritual : the  apostles  exer- 
cised only  a spiritual  authority  under  the  direction  of 
Jesus  Christ ; particular  churches  were  united  only  by 
faith  and  love ; in  all  civil  affairs  they  submitted  to  civil 
magistracy;  and  in  religions  concerns  they  were  govern- 
ed by  the  reasoning,  advice,  and  exhortations  of  their 
ownOlHoers:  their  censures  were  only  honest  reproofs; 
and  their  excommunications  were  only  declarations  that 
such  offenders,  being  incorrigible,  were  no  longer  ac- 
counted members  of  their  communities.” 

Let  it  ever  he  remembered,  therefore,  that  no  man  or 
men  have  any  authority  whatever  from  Christ  over  the 
consciences  of  others,  or  to  persecute  the  persons  of  any 
whose  religions  principles  agree  not  with  their  own. 
See  Lowell’s  tier  mom ; Robinson’s  Claude,  ii,  227,  229; 
Saurin's  Hermans,  vol,  iii,  Preface;  Locke,  Government 
uml  Toleration  ; Memoir  of  Roger  Williams. — Buck, 
Theol,  Diet . s.  v.  See  Judgment,  Private. 

Intorcetta,  Prosper,  a Roman  Catholic  Sicilian 
who  wont  to  China  as  a Jesuit  missionary,  was  born  at 
Piazza  in  1(525,  lie  had  first  studied  law,  hut,  believing 
it  to  be  his  duty  to  serve  the  Church,  lie  joined  the  or- 
der of  the  Jesuits,  and  prepared  for  the  missionary  field 
in  China.  Here  he  encountered  many  obstacles,  but, 
notwithstanding,  succeeded  in  making  many  converts. 
Persecuted  by  the  Chinese,  he  courageously  pushed  his 
work  forward,  and  became  one  of  the  greatest  of  the 
Jesuitical  missionaries  to  that  country.  He  died  Oct. 
3,  1(59(5.  Ills  works  evince  a careful  and  continued  study 
of  the  language  of  the  country  in  which  he  aimed  to  es- 
tablish his  peculiar  religious  creed ; and  it  might  he 
well  for  Protestant  missionaries  sent  to  Asiatic  and  oth- 
er heathen  fields  of  missionary  work  to  imitate  the  great 
zeal  which  has  animated  so  many  of  the  missionaries  of 
the  Romish  Church,  and  which  has  secured  them  often- 
times greater  prominence  than  the  Protestant  laborers.  * 
He  wrote  Titihio  (or  “the  great  study  of  Confucius  and 
of  his  disci]  ile  Tseu-sse”),  edited,  with  a Latin  translation, 
hv  Father  Ignace  tie  Costa  (1(5(52)  x—Tchoung-goung  (or 
“Invariability  in  the  intermediate  course”);  one  of  the 
four  hooks  of  Confucianism,  preceded  by  a life  of  Confu- 
ci us : < 'onfucii  1 'it a (( Joa,  1(5(59,  small  fid.)  x—Lungu  (“  the 
hook  ol  Confucius’s  philosophical  discussions”)  (without 
place  or  date,  1 vol.  small  lid.) Testimonium  <le  Cultu 
tiinensi  (Lvon,  1700,  8Vo ) x—Compendiosa  Xarrat.  dello 
tit a/o  della  M issione  f’inese,  rominviando  dull  anno  1581, 
sino  (d  1(5(59  (Rome,  1(571  or  1(572,  8vo).  There  also  re- 
mains still  in  MS.  a complete  paraphrase  of  the  four 
hooks  of  ( ’onfueius.  Sec  Iloefer,  Xouc.  Dion.  Gen.  xxv 
95 1 . (J.  11.  W.) 

Intrepidity  is  a term  used  to  designate  a disposi- 
tion of  mind  unaffected  with  fear  at  the  approach  of 
danger.  Resolution  either  banishes  fear  or  surmounts 
it,  and  is  firm  on  all  occasions.  Courage  is  impatient  to 
attack,  undertakes  boldly,  and  is  not  lessened  by  diffi- 
culty. Valor  acts  with  vigor,  gives  no  way  to*  resist- 
ance, hut  pursues  an  enterprise  in  spite  of  opposition. 
Bravery  knows  no  fear;  it  runs  nobly  into  danger,  and 
prefers  honor  to  life  itself.  Intrepidity  encounters  the 
greatest  perils  with  the  utmost  coolness,  and  dares  even 
present  death.  This  is  especially  the  case  Avith  the 
martyrs  of  Christianity.  No  persecution,  however  great. 
di<l  they  fear  to  encounter  for  the  sake  of  their  religious 
belief,  and  death  avus  welcomed  as  the  crowning  victory 
over  error  and  superstition — Henderson’s  Buck,  Theol 
Did.  s.  v. 

Introduction,  Ihui.icAi.,  is  liOAA’  the  technical  des- 
ignation for  works  Avliicli  aim  to  furnish  a general  view 
ol  such  subjects  and  questions  as  are  preliminary  to  a 
proper  exposition  of  the  sacred  hooks,  the  correspond- 
ing branch  ol  Biblical  science  being  often  styled  “Isa- 
gogh's,'’  in  a strict  sense.  The  Avord  “introduction” 
being  of  rather  vague  signification,  there  was  also  for- 
merly no  definite  idea  attached  to  the  expression  “ Bib- 


lical Introduction .”  In  Avorks  on  this  subject  (as  in 
Horne’s  Introduction)  might  he  found  contents  belong- 
ing to  geography,  antiquities,  interpretation,  natural 
history,  and  other  brandies  of  knowledge.  Even  the 
usual  contents  of  Biblical  introductions  Avere  so  un- 
connected that  Schleiermacher,  in  his  Kurze  Darstel- 
lunej  des  Theologischen  titudiums,  justly  calls  it  ein  Man- 
cherlei ; that  is,  a farrago  or  omnium-gatherum.  Bib- 
lical introduction  Avas  usually  described  as  consisting  of 
the  various  branches  of  preparatory  knowledge  requisite 
for  A'iewing  and  treating  the  Bible  correctly.  It  Avas 
distinguished  from  Biblical  history  and  archaeology  by 
being  less  intimately  connected  Avitli  what  is  usually 
called  history.  It  comprised  treatises  on  the  origin  of 
the  Bible,  on  the  original  languages,  on  the  translations, 
and  on  the  history  of  the  sacred  text,  and  Avas  divided 
into  general  and  special  introduction.  An  endeaA'or  to 
remove  this  A'agueness  by  furnishing  a firm  definition 
of  Biblical  introduction  Avas  made  by  I>r.  (.’miner  (in 
I his  Einkitung,  noticed  beloAv).  He  defined  Biblical  in- 
troduction to  be  the  history  of  the  Bible,  and  divided  it 
into  the  folknving  parts:  1.  The  history  of  the  separate 
Biblical  hooks;  2,  the  history  of  the  collection  of  these 
hooks,  or  of  the  canon;  3,  the  history  of  the  spread  of 
these  books,  or  of  the  translations  of  it;  4,  the  history 
of  the  presentation  of  the  text ; 5,  the  history  of  the  in- 
terpretation of  it.  The  same  historical  idea  has  been 
ad\rocatedbv  Iliivernick  (in  his  Einleit.),  and  more  par- 
ticularly by  Hupfeld  ( Degriff  u.  Meihode  der  hibl.  Einl. 
1844).  This  A'iew,  lioAvever,  lias  not  generally  been  ac- 
quiesced in  by  Biblical  scholars,  being  regarded  as  too 
limited  and  special  a treatment,  inasmuch  as  the  end 
in  vieAV  is  to  furnish  a solution  of  such  questions  as  arise 
upon  the  Bible  as  a book,  yet  excluding  such  prepara- 
tory sciences  in  general  as  philology,  archaeology,  and 
exegesis,  the  first  tAvo  of  Avhich  rather  relate  to  all  an- 
cient Avritings,  and  the  last  to  passages  in  detail.  By 
common  consent,  treatises  on  Biblical  introduction  ha\re 
iioav  usually  come  to  embrace  the  field  covered  by  the 
articles  on  the  several  books  as  given  in  this  Cgclopce- 
dia,  and  the  topics  legitimately  included  in  this  depart- 
ment of  Biblical  science  may  briefly  be  summed  up 
under  the  foIloAving  heads,  which  may,  lioAvever,  some- 
times require  to  be  differently  arranged,  or  eAren  com- 
bined: 1,  Authorship;  2,  date;  3,  place;  4,  inspiration; 
5,  contents;  G,  style;  7,  peculiar  difficulties — of  the  sev- 
eral books,  Avith  the  literature  and  commentaries  ap- 
pended. In  this  AA'ay  the  old  division  of  general  and 
special  introduction  is  preserved  only  so  far  that  some 
treatises  are  on  all  the  books  of  the  Old  or  NeAV  Testa- 
ment in  order,  while  others  take  up  a single  book  only 
— the  latter  usually  as  prolegomena  to  a separate  com- 
mentary; and  the  Avider  topics  formerly  discussed  are 
relegated  to  their  appropriate  and  separate  spheres,  e.  g. 
in  addition  to  Archajology  (including  Geography,  Chro- 
nology, History,  and  Antiquities  proper),  Lexicology 
(including  radical  and  comparath'e  philology,  and  syuo- 
nvmes),  and  Grammar  (including  all  the  peculiarities 
of  Hebraistic  and  Hellenistic  phraseology,  poetical  modes 
of  expression,  rhetorical  traits,  etc.) — the  foIloAving  more 
especiall)’- : the  Canon,  Criticism,  Inspiration,  and  Inter- 
pretation (q.  v.  severally).  With  these  prefatory  dis- 
tinctions, Ave  proceed  to  gi\-e  a sketch  of  the  historical 
development  of  this  department  of  Biblical  Science,  Avith 
some  criticisms  upon  the  se\-oral  Avorks  in  which  it  has 
been  evolved.  In  these  remarks  Ave  shall  largely  avail 
ourselves  of  the  article  on  the  subject  in  Kitto’s  Cgclo- 
ptrdia ; see  also  Bleek’s  Intr-od.  to  the  0.  IT.  (Loud.  1869), 
i,  5 sq. 

The  Greek  word  tiaayioyi),  in  the  sense  of  an  intro- 
duction to  a science,  occurs  only  in  later  Greek,  ami  was 
first  used,  to  denote  an  introduction  to  the  right  under- 
standing of  the  Bible,  by  Adrian,  a Greek  Avho  probablv 
lived  in  the  5tll  century  after  Christ.  'AtUianov  enra- 
yioy>)  tTiq  yga<f)tic  is  a small  book,  the  object  of  which 
is  to  assist  readers  avIio  are  unacquainted  Avith  Biblical 
phraseology  in  rightly  understanding  peculiar  words 


INTRODUCTION 


631 


INTRODUCTION 


and  expressions.  It  was  first  edited  by  David  Hoscliel,  1 
under  the  title  of  Adrian  i Jseegoge  in  Sacreem  Scripturam  1 
Greece  cum  S chains  (Augusta*,  Yimlobonaj,  1602,  4 to), 
and  was  reprinted  in  the  ( ’ritici  Maori  (Lomlon  ed.  vol. 
viii ; Frankfort  edit.  vol.  vi).  Before  Adrian,  the  want 
of  similar  works  had  already  been  felt,  and  books  of  a 
corresponding  tendency  were  in  circulation,  but  they  did 
not  bear  the  title  of  tioaywyg.  Melito  of  Sardis,  who 
lived  in  the  latter  half  of  the  2d  century,  wrote  a book 
under  the  title  //  being  a key  both  to  the  Old  and 

to  the  New  Testament.  The  so-called  At£ftf,  which 
were  written  at  a later  period,  are  books  of  a similar  de- 
scription. Some  of  these  At£tig  have  been  printed  in 
Mattluei’s  Novum  Test  amentum  Greece , and  in  Boisson- 
ade’s  A necdota  Greeca  (vol.  iii,  Parisiis,  1831).  These 
are  merely  linguistic  introductions;  but  there  was  soon 
felt  the  want  of  works  which  might  solve  other  ques- 
tions, such  as,  for  instance,  what  are  the  principles 
which  should  guide  us  in  Biblical  interpretation  ? The 
Donatist  Tieonius  wrote,  about  the  year  380,  Jiegxelce  ad 
investigaruhem  et  inveniendum  I ntelligentiam  Scripturee- 
ntm  Septem.  St.  Augustine,  in  his  work  De  Doctrind 
Christiana  (iii,  302),  says  concerning  these  seven  rules 
that  the-  author’s  intention  was  by  means  of  them  to 
open  the  secret  sense  of  Holy  Writ,  “ as  if  by  a key.” 
There  arose  also  a question  concerning  the  extent  of 
Holy  Writ — that  is  to  say,  what  belonged,  and  what  tlid 
not  belong  to  Holy  Writ ; and  also  respecting  the  con- 
tents of  the  separate  Biblical  books,  and  the  order  in 
which  they  should  follow  each  other,  etc.  About  A.D. 
550,  Cassiodorus  wrote  his  Institutioncs  JJivinee.  He 
mentions  in  this  work,  under  the  name  of  Introdnctores 
JHvinee  Script  lira,  five  authors  who  had  been  engaged 
in  Biblical  investigations,  and  in  his  tenth  chapter 
speaks  of  them  thus:  “Let  us  eagerly  return  to  the 
guides  to  Holy  Writ;  that  is  to  say,  to  the  Donatist 
Tieonius,  to  St.  Augustine  on  Christian  doctrine,  to  Adri- 
an, Euclierins,  and  Junillus,  whom  I have  sedulously 
collected,  in  order  that  works  of  a similar  purport  might 
be  combined  in  one  volume.”  Henceforward  the  title 
Introductio  in  Scripturam  Sacrum  was  established,  and 
remained  current  for  all  works  in  which  were  solved 
questions  introductory  to  the  study  of  the  Bible.  In 
the  Western  or  Latin  Church,  during  a thousand  years, 
scarcely  any  addition  was  made  to  the  collection  of  Cas- 
siodorus, while  in  the  Eastern  or  Greek  Church  only 
two  works  written  during  this  long  period  deserve  to  be 
mentioned,  both  bearing  the  title  Zvvoiptg  rijg  Ctueg 
ypaepijg.  One  of  these  works  is  falsely  ascribed  to 
Athanasius,  and  the  other  as  falsely  to  Chrysostom. 

The  Dominican  friar  Sautes  Pagninus,  with  the  in- 
tention of  reviewing  the  Biblical  knowledge  of  Jerome 
and  St.  Augustine,  published  his  Jseegoge  ad  Sacras  Lit- 
ertis,  liber  unions  (Colonia?,  1 540,  fob),  a work  which,  con- 
sidering the  time  of  its  appearance,  was  a great  step  in 
advance. 

The  work  of  the  Dominican  friar  Sixtus  of  Sienna, 
Bibliotheca  Suncta  ex  preecipitis  Catholicce  Ecde&iee  avc- 
toribus  collect  a,  et  in  octo  libros  digesta  (Yenetiis,  150(3; 
frequently  reprinted),  is  of  greater  importance,  although 
it  is  manifestly  written  under  the  influence  of  the  In- 
quisition, which  had  just  been  restored,  and  is  percepti- 
bly shackled  by  the  decrees  of  the  Council  of  Trent ; but 
Sixtus  furnished  also  a list  of  books  to  be  used  by  a true 
Catholic  Christian  for  the  right  understanding  of  Holy 
Writ,  as  well  as  the  principles  which  should  guide  a Bo- 
man  Catholic  in  criticism  and  interpretation.  The  de- 
crees of  the  Council  of  Trent  prevented  the  Homan  Cath- 
olics from  moving  freely  in  the  field  of  Biblical  investi- 
gation, while  the  Protestants  zealously  carried  out  their 
researches  in  various  directions.  The  Illyrian,  Matthias 
Flacius,  in  his  Claris  Scriptures  Sacree,  seu  de  Sermone 
Saa'arum  Literarum  (Basle,  15G7,in  folio),  furnished  an 
excellent  work  on  Biblical  Hermeneutics;  but  it  was 
surpassed  by  the  Prolegomena  of  Brian  Walton,  which 
belong  to  his  celebrated  Biblia  Sacra  Polyglotta  (Lond. 
1G57,  six  vols.  fob).  These  Prolegomena  contain  much 


that  will  always  be  accounted  valuable  and  necessary 
for  the  true  criticism  of  the  sacred  text.  They  have 
been  published  separately,  with  notes,  by  archdeacon 
Wrangham  (1528,  2 vols.  8vo).  Thus  we  have  seen 
that  excellent  works  were  produced  on  isolated  portions 
of  Biblical  introduction,  but  they  were  not  equalled  in 
merit  by  the  works  in  which  it  was  attempted  to  fur- 
nish a whole  system  of  Biblical  introduction.  The  fol- 
lowing Biblical  introductions  are  among  the  best  of 
those  which  were  published  about  that  period : Bivetus 
(1G27) ; Michaclis  Waltheri  Gffuina  Biblica  novitrr  ada- 
perta,  etc.  (Lipsia*,  first  published  in  1636);  Abrahami 
Calovii  Criticus  Sacer  Biblicus,  c tc.  (Yitcmberga?,  1643)  ; 
Hottinger,  Thesaur.  Philologuvs,  seu  Claris  Script.  Sac. 
(Tiguri,  1G49);  Heidegger,  Enchiridion  Biblicum  iipc- 
fivtjpoviKvv  (Tiguri,  1681) ; Leusden,  a Dutchman,  pub- 
lished a work  entitled  Philologies  Jlebraas,  etc.  (Utrecht, 
1G5G) ; and  Philologies  Jlebr.-Grmus  Gcncralis  (Utrecht, 
1670);  Pfeiffer  (Ultraj.  1704) ; Yan  Til  (1720-22);  Du 
Pin  (1701);  Calmet  (1720);  Moldenhauer  (1744) ; Bor- 
ncr  (1753) ; Goldliagen  (1765-8) ; Wagner  (1795).  Most 
of  these  works  have  frequently  been  reprinted. 

The  dogmatical  zeal  of  the  Protestants  was  greatly 
excited  by  the  work  of  Louis  Capclle,  a reformed  divine 
and  learned  professor  at  8’annnir,  which  appeared  under 
the  title  of  Ludoviei  Cappelli  Critica  Seecra  ; sire  de  va- 
riis  qnee  in  veteris  Tcsiamcnli  libris  occurrunt  ledionibus 
! libri  sex  (Parisiis,  1650).  A learned  Koman  Catholic 
and  priest  of  the  Oratory,  Iliehard  Simon,  rightly  per- 
ceived, from  the  dogmatical  bile  stirred  up  by  Capelle, 
that  Biblical  criticism  was  the  most  effective  weapon  to 
he  employed  against  the  Protestantism  which  had  grown 
cold  and  stiff  in  dogmatics.  He  therefore  devoted  his 
critical  knowledge  <4  the  Bible  to  the  service  of  the  Bo- 
man  Catholic  Church,  and  endeavored  to  inflict  a death- 
blow upon  Protestantism.  The  result,  however,  was  the 
production  of  Simon’s  excellent  work  on  Biblical  criti- 
cism, which  became  the  basis  on  which  the  science  of 
Biblical  introduction  was  raised.  Simon  was  the  first 
who  correctly  separated  the  criticism  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment from  that  of  the  New.  His  works  on  Biblical  in- 
troduction appeared  under  the  following  titles:  Jlistcire 
Critique  du  Yieux  Testament  (Paris,  1678).  This  work 
was  inaccurately  rcprintcel  at  Amsterdam  by  Elzevir  in 
1679,  and  subsequently  in  many  other  bad  piratical  edi- 
tions. Among  these  the  most  complete  was  that  print- 
! eel,  together  with  several  polemical  treatises  oecasicned 
by  this  work,  at  Rotterdam,  in  1685,4to: — Jlistoire  Cri- 
I tique  elu  Texte  du  Nouveau  Test  amt (Bo  1 1 er  d am , 1689) : 
' — Jlistoire  Critique  dts  Versions  du  Nouveau  Testament 
(Rotterdam,  1690):' — Jlistoire  Critique  des  principaux 
Commentate urs  du  Nouveau  Testament  (Botterd.  1G93). 
By  these  excellent  critical  works  8imon  established  a 
claim  upon  the  gratitude  of  all  real  friends  of  truth ; but 
lie  was  thanked  by  none  of  the  prevailing  parties  in  the 
Christian  Church.  The  Protestants  saw  in  8imon  only 
an  enemy  of  their  Church,  not  the  thorough  investiga- 
tor and  friend  of  truth.  To  the  Roman  Catholics,  on 
the  other  hand,  Simon's  works  appeared  to  be  destruc- 
tive, because  they  demonstrated  their  ecclesiastical  de- 
crees to  be  arbitrary  and  nnliistorieal.  Tlie  Jlistoire 
Critique  elu  Yieux  Testament  was  suppressed  by  the  Ro- 
man Catholics  in  Paris  immediately  after  its  publica- 
tion, and  in  Protestant  countries,  also,  it  was  forbidden  to 
be  reprinted.  Nevertheless,  the  linguistic  and  truly  sci- 
entific researches  of  Pocock;  the  Oriental  school  in  the 
Netherlands;  the  unsurpassed  work  of  Humphry  Hody, 
Be  Bibliurum  Textibies  Originalibus  Versionibies,  etc. 
(Oxonise,  1705,  folio) ; the  excellent  criticism  of  Mill,  in 
his  Novum  Testeementum  Grcecum  cum  Ledionibus  Yari- 
antihns  (Oxoniie,  1707,  folio),  which  was  soon  followed 
by  Wetstein’s  Novum  Testeementum  Greecum  editiems  re- 
ceptee, cum  Ijediombus  Yariantibus  (Amstelodami,  1751— 
52,  folio),  and  by  which  even  Bengel  was  convinced,  in 
spite  of  his  ecclesiastical  orthodoxy  (comp.  Bengelii  Ap- 
paratus Criticus  Novi  Testamenti,  p.  634  sq.) ; the  Bib- 
lical works  by  II.  Michaelis,  especially  his  Biblia  Uebra - 


632 


INTRODUCTION 


INTRODUCTION 


tea  ex  Manuscript  is  et  impressis  Codicibus  (Hake,  1720), 
ami  Kcmiicott’s  Yttus.Testamentnm  Ilebraicurn  cum  va- 
riis  Lectionibus  (Oxon.  1770),  and  the  revival  of  classi- 
cal philology— all  tliis  gradually  led  to  results  which  co- 
incided with  Simon’s  criticism,  and  showed  the  enor- 
mous difference  between  historical  truth  and  the  arbi- 
trary- ecclesiastical  opinions  which  were  still  prevalent 
iu  the  works  on  Biblical  introduction  by  I'ritius,  Black- 
wall,  < 'arp/.ov,  Van  Til,  Moldenhaucr,  and  others.  J.  I). 
Michaelis  mildly  endeavored  to  reconcile  the  Church 
with  historical  truth,  but  has  been  rewarded  by  the 
anathemas  of  the  ecclesiastical  party,  who  have  pro- 
nounced him  a heretic.  By  their  ecclesiastical  perse- 
cutors, Richard  Simon  was  falsely  described  to  be  a dis- 
ciple of  the  pantheistical  Spinoza,  and  Michaelis  as  a fol- 
lower of  both  Simon  and  Spinoza.  However,  the  medi- 
ating endeavors  of  Michaelis  gradually  prevailed.  His 
Einleitung  in  die  Gottlichen  Schriften  des  Xeuen  Bundes 
(Gottingen,  1750,8vo)  was  greatly  improved  in  later  edi- 
tions, and  the  fourth  (1788,  2 vols.  4to)  was  translated 
and  essentially  augmented  by  Herbert  Marsh,  after- 
wards bishop  of  Peterborough,  under  the  title  Intro- 
duction to  the  Xew  Testament , etc.  (Cambridge,  1791- 
1801,  4 vols.  8vo).  Michaelis  commenced  also  an  intro- 
duction to  the  Old  Testament,  under  the  title  Einleitung 
in  die  Gottlichen  Schriften  des  Allen  Bundes  (Hamburg, 
1787).  Ed.  Harwood’s  Xew  Introduction  to  the  Study 
and  Knowledge  of  the  Xew  Testament  (London,  17(57-71 ; 
translated  into  German  by  Schulz,  Halle,  1770-73,  3 
vols.)  contains  so  many  heterogeneous  materials  that  it 
scarcely  belongs  to  the  science  of  introduction. 

The  study  of  New-Testament  introduction  was  in 
Germany  especially  promoted  also  by  J.  S.  Semler,  who 
died  at  Halle  in  1791.  It  was  by  Sender's  influence 
that  the  critical  works  of  Richard  Simon  were  translated 
into  German,  and  the  works  of  Wot  stein  re-edited  and 
circulated.  The  original  works  of  Semler  on  Biblical 
introduction  are  his  Apparatus  ad  liberalem  Xovi  Tes- 
tamenti  Interpret  at  ionem  (Hake,  1767),  and  his  Abhand- 
Inng  ran  freier  Untersuchung  des  Canons  (Halle,  1771-5, 
4 vols.).  Sender's  school  produced  .1.  J.  Griesbach,  who 
died  at  Jena  in  1812.  Griesbach’s  labors  in  correcting 
the  text  of  the  New  Testament  are  of  great  value.  K. 
A.  Hiinlcin  published  a work  called  JIandbuch  der  Ein- 
leiinng  in  die  Schrifen  des  Xeuen  Testamentes  (Erlangen, 
1791-1802,2  vols.),  in  which  he  followed  the  university 
lectures  of  Griesbach.  A second  edition  of  this  work 
appeared  in  1801-9,3  vols.  This  introduction  contains 
excellent  materials,  but  is  wanting  in  decisive  historical 
criticism. 

J.  G.  Eichhorn,  who  died  at  Gottingen  in  1827,  was 
formed  in  the  school  of  Michaelis  at  Gottingen,  and  was 
inspired  by  Herder’s  poetical  views  of  the  East  in  gen- 
eral, and  of  the  literature  of  the  ancient  Hebrews  in 
particular.  Eichhorn  commenced  his  Introduction  when 
tli > times  were  inclined  to  give  up  the  Bible  altogether 
as  a production  of  priestcraft  inapplicable  to  the  present 
period,  lie  endeavored  to  bring  the  contents  of  the 
Bible  into  harmony  with  modern  modes  of  thinking,  to 
explain,  and  to  recommend  them,  lie  sought,  by  means 
of  hypotheses,  to  furnish  a dew  to  their  origin,  without 
sufficiently  regarding  strict  historical  criticism.  Eich- 
horn’s  Eiule  if  ting  in  das  Alte  Testament  was  first  pub- 
lished at  Lcipsic  in  1780-83,  in  three  volumes.  The 
fifth  edition  was  published  at  Gottingen,  1820-24, in  live 
volumes.  1 1 is  Eiideifung  in  das  Xene  Testament  was  first 
published  at  Leipzig  (1804-27,  6 vols.).  The  earlier  vol- 
umes have  been  republished.  The  external  treatment 
of  the  materials,  the  style,  aim,  and  many  separate  por- 
tions of  both  works,  are  masterly  and  excellent;  hut, 
with  regard  to  linguistic  and  historical  research,  they 
arc  feeble,  and  overwhelmed  with  hypotheses. 

Leouhardt  Bertholdt  was  a very  diligent  but  uncrit- 
ical compiler,  lie  made  a considerable  step  backwards 
in  the  science  of  introduction,  not  only  by  reuniting  the 
Old  and  New  Testament  into  one  whole,  but  bv  even 
intermixing  the  separate  writings  with  each  other,  in 


his  work  entitled  Ilistorisch-kritische  Einleitung  in 
sdmmtliche  kanonische  und  apocryphische  Schriften  des 
Alten  und  Xeuen  Testamentes  (Erlang.  1812-19, 6 vols.). 

Augusti’s  Grundriss  einer  hist. -krit.  Einleit.  ins  A.  T. 
(Lpz.  1806, 1827)  contains  little  new  or  original. 

The  Isagoye  Uistonco-critica  in  Libras  Xori  Foederis 
Sacros  (Jena?,  1830)  of  H.  A.  Schott  is  more  distin- 
guished by  diligence  than  by  penetration. 

The  Lehrbuch  der  llistorisch-kritisehen  Einleitung  in 
die  Bibel  A . und  X.  T.  Berlin  (pt.  i,  O.  T.  1817,  and  oft- 
en since:  pt.  ii.  1826,  ami  later),  by  W.M. L. de  Wette, 
is  distinguished  by  brevity,  precision,  critical  penetra- 
tion, and  in  some  parts  by  completeness.  This  book 
contains  an  excellent  survey  of  the  various  opinions 
prevalent  in  the  sphere  of  Biblical  introduction,  inter- 
spersed with  original  discussions.  Almost  every  author 
on  Biblical  criticism  will  find  that  De  Wette  lias  made 
use  of  his  labors;  but  in  the  purely  historical  portion 
the  book  is  feeble,  and  indicates  that  the  author  did  not 
go  to  the  first  sources,  but  adopted  the  opinions  of  oth- 
ers; consequently  the  work  has  no  internal  harmony. 
An  English  translation  of  this  work,  with  additions  by 
the  translator,  Theodore  Parker,  has  been  published  in 
this  country  (Boston,  1850).  A new  (the  8th),  thor- 
oughly revised  edition  of  the  German,  not  only  embody- 
ing all  the  later  residts  of  exegetical  researches,  but  also 
modifying  many  of  the  views  of  De  Wette,  lias  recently 
been  published  bv  Prof.  E.  Schrader  (Berl.  vol.  i [O.T.], 
1869). 

K.  A.Crcdner  embodied  the  residts  of  liis  method  (see 
above)  of  the  critical  examination  of  the  books  of  the 
New  Testament  in  his  work  Das  Xene  Testament  nach 
seinem  Zweck,  Ursprunge  und  Inhalt  (Giessen,  1841-3,2 
vols.).  His  views  are  the  basis  of  Reus’s  Geschichte  der 
I/eiligen  Schriften  des  Xeuen  Testamentes  (Ilallc,  1842; 
3d  ed.  1860). 

The  critical  investigation  which  prevailed  in  Germa- 
ny after  the  days  of  Michaelis  has  of  late  been  opposed 
by  a mode  of  treating  Biblical  introduction  not  so  much 
in  the  spirit  of  a free  search  after  truth  as  in  an  apolo- 
getical  and  polemical  style.  This  course,  however,  has 
not  enriched  Biblical  science.  To  this  class  of  books 
belong  a number  of  monographs,  or  treatises  on  sepa- 
rate subjects;  also  the  Handb.  der  llistorisch-kritischen 
Einleitung  iu  das  A lie  Testament  of  H.  A.  ( '.  Havernick 
(Erlangen,  1837-49,  2 pts. in  3 vols.;  2d  ed.  1854-6, by 
Keil,  who  also  edited  pt.  i of  the  first  ed.),  of  which  the 
General  Introduction  and  the  Introduction  to  the  Penta- 
teuch have  been  translated  into  English  (Edinb.  1850, 
1852) ; also  11.  E.  E.  Guericke’s  Einleitung  in  das  Xene 
Testament  (Halle,  1828),  in  which  too  frequently  an 
anathema  against  heretics  serves  as  a substitute  for 
demonstration.  The  apologetical  tendency  prevails  in 
the  work  of  G.  Hamilton,  entitled  .1  General  Introduc- 
tion to  the  Study  of  the  Hebrew  Scriptures,  etc.  (Dublin, 
1814);  in  Thomas  Hartwell  Horne’s  Introduction  to  the 
Critical  Study  and  Knowledge,  of  the  Holy  Scriptures , 
etc.  (Loiul.  1818,  4 vols.;  the  10th  ed.  of  this  work  was 
an  entirely  new  production,  and  the  best  hitherto  pro- 
duced in  English,  in  4 vols.  8vo,  1856,  vol.  ii  on  the  O. 
T.  by  Dr.  S.  Davidson  [since  displaced  by  one  by  Mr. 
Ayre],  and  vol.  iv  on  the  N.  T.  by  Dr.  S.  P.  Tregellos) ; 
and  in  J.  Cook’s  Inquiry  into  the  Books  of  the  Xew  Tes- 
tament (Edinburgh,  1824). 

The  Roman  Catholics  also  have,  in  modern  times, 
written  on  Biblical  introduction,  although  the  un- 
changeable decrees  of  the  Council  of  Trent  hinder  all 
free,  critical,  and  scientific  treatment  of  the  subject. 
The  Roman  Catholics  can  treat  Biblical  introduction 
only  in  a polemical  and  apologetical  manner,  and  are 
obliged  to  keep  up  the  attention  of  their  readers  by  in- 
troducing learned  arclneological  researches,  which  con- 
ceal the  want  of  free  movement.  This  latter  mode  was 
adopted  by  J.Jahn  (who  died  at  Vienna  in  1816)  in  his 
Einleitung  in  die  gottlichen  Bucher  des  alten  Bundes  (Vi- 
enna, 1793,  2 vols.,  and  1802,  3 vols.),  and  in  his  Intro - 
ductio  in  Libros  Sacros  Yeleris  Testamenti  in  epitomes 


INTRODUCTION 


G33 


INTROIT 


redacta  (Vienna1, 1805).  This  work  has  been  republish- 
ed by  F.  Ackermann,  in  what  are  asserted  to  be  the  third 
and  fourth  editions,  under  the  title  of  Introductio  in  Li- 
bros  Sucros  Yeteris  Test amenti,  nsibns  aeademicis  nccom- 
modata  (Vienna?,  1825  and  1889).  But  these  so-called 
new  editions  are  full  of  alterations  and  mutilations, 
which  remove  every  free  expression  of  Jahn,  who  be- 
longed to  the  liberal  period  of  the  emperor  Joseph.  J. 
L.  Hug’s  Einleitung  in  das  Xeue  Testament  (Stuttgart 
and  Tilbing.  1800, 2 vols. ; 4th  ed.  1847)  surpasses  Jalui’s 
work  in  ability,  and  has  obtained  much  credit  among 
Protestants  by  its  learned  explanations,  although  these 
frequently  swerve  from  the  point  in  question.  Hug’s 
work  has  been  translated  into  English  by  the  Rev.  1). 
(J.  Wait,  LL.I). ; but  this  translation  is  much  surpassed 
by  that  of  Fosdick,  published  in  the  United  States,  and 
enriched  by  the  addenda  of  Moses  Stuart.  The  polem- 
ical and  apolcgetical  style  prevails  in  the  work  of  J.  G. 
Ilerbst,  II  istorisch-kritische  Einleitung  in  die.  Sch riften 
des  A Hen  Testamentes  (completed  and  edited  after  the 
death  of  the  author  by  Welte,  Carlsruhe,  1840) ; and  in 
I ' Introduction  Historique  et  Critique  aux  Lirres  de  VA  n- 
cien  et  du  Nouveau  Testament,  by  J.  B.  Glaire  (Paris, 
1839,  4 vols.).  The  work  of  the  excellent  Feilmoser, 
who  died  ill  1831,  Einleitung  in  die  Hitcher  des  Neuen 
Bundes  (2d  ed.  Tubingen,  1880),  forsakes  the  position 
of  a true  Roman  Catholic,  inasmuch  as  it  is  distinguish- 
ed by  a noble  ingenuousness  and  candor.  The  same 
remark  in  a great  measure  applies  to  the  still  later  work 
of  Scholz,  Einl.  in  d.  heil.  Schriften  d.  A . und  X.  T.  (vol.  i 
general  introd.  Cologne,  1845).  Among  the  best  Roman 
Catholic  contributions  to  this  branch  of  Biblical  litera- 
ture are  the  works  of  Reusch,  Lehrh.  der  Einleitung  in 
das  A.  T.  (Kreib.  3d  ed.  18G8),  and  Langen,  Grundnss 
der  Einleitung  in  das  N.  T.  (Freib.  18(18). 

In  Great  Britain,  besides  the  above  works  of  Horne 
and  Hamilton,  we  may  especially  name  the  following  as 
introductory  in  their  character.  Collier’s  Sacred  Inter- 
preter (174C>,  2 vols.  8vo)  was  one  of  the  earliest  publi- 
cations of  this  kind.  It  went  through  several  editions, 
and  was  translated  into  German  in  1750.  It  relates  both 
to  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  and  is  described  by 
bishop  Marsh  as  “a  good  popular  preparation  for  the 
study  of  the  holy  Scriptures.”  Lardner’s  History  of  the 
Apostles  and  Evangelists  (175G-57,  3 vols.  8vo)  is  de- 
scribed by  the  same  critic  as  an  admirable  introduction 
to  the  New  Testament.  “ It  is  a storehouse  of  literary 
information,  collected  with  equal  industry  and  fidelity.” 
From  this  work,  from  the  English  translation  of  Micha- 
elis’s  Introduction  (17G1),  and  from  l)r.  Owen’s  Observa- 
tions on  the  Gospels  (17G4),  Dr.  Percy,  bishop  of  Dromore, 
compiled  a useful  manual,  called  A Key  to  the  New  Tes- 
tament, which  has  gone  through  many  editions,  and  is 
much  in  request  among  the  candidates  for  ordination  in 
the  Established  Church.  The  Key  to  the  Old  Testament 
(1790),  by  Dr.  Gray,  afterwards  bishop  of  Bristol,  was 
written  in  imitation  of  Percy’s  compilation;  but  it  is  a 
much  more  elaborate,  performance  than  the  Key  to  the 
Keiv  Testament.  It  is  a compilation  from  a great  vari- 
ety of  works,  references  to  which  are  given  at  the  foot 
of  each  page.  Bishop  Marsh  speaks  of  it  as  “a  very 
useful  publication  for  students  of  divinity,  who  will  find 
at  one  view  what  must  otherwise  be  collected  from 
many  writers.”  It  is  now,  however,  almost  entirely  be- 
hind the  times.  Dr.  Harwood’s  Introduction  to  the  Study 
and  Knowledge  of  the  New  Testament  (1737,  1771,2  vols. 
8vo),  although  noteworthy  in  this  connection, is  not  prop- 
erly an  introduction  to  the  New  Testament,  in  the  usual 
and  proper  sense  of  the  term.  It  does  not  describe  the. 
books  of  the  New  Testament,  but  is  a collection  of  dis- 
sertations relative  partly  to  the  character  of  the  sacred 
writers,  Jewish  history  and  customs,  and  to  such  parts 
of  heathen  antiquities  as  have  reference  to  the  New  Tes- 
tament. The  first  volume  of  bishop  Tomline’s  Elements 
of  Christum  Theology  contains  an  introduction  both  to 
the  Old  and  to  the  New  Testament,  and  has  been  pub- 
lished in  a separate  form.  It  is  suited  to  its  purpose  as 


a manual  for  students  in  divinity;  but  the  standard  of 
present  attainment  cannot  be  very  high  if,  as  Marsh 
states,  “ it  may  be  read  with  advantage  by  the  most  ex- 
perienced divine.” 

The  latest  and  most  important  works  in  this  depart- 
ment are  the  following:  llengstenberg,  Beitrage  zur 
Einleitung  ins  A.  B.  (Berlin,  1831) ; Ilertwig,  Tubellen  z. 
Einleitung  ins  NT.  [a  useful  compilation]  (Berl.  1849; 
3d  ed.  18G5);  Maier  (Roman  Catholic ),  Einleitung  in  d. 
Schriften  des  N.  T.  (Freib.  1852);  Keil,  Lehrbuch  der 
1/istorisch  Kritischen  Einleitung  ins  Alte  Test.  (Frankf. 
and  Erlang.  1853  [a  highly  judicious  work  in  most  re- 
spects]; translated  in  Clarke’s  Library,  Edinb.  1870,2 
vols.) ; Davidson,  Introd.  to  the  O.  Test,  [a  different  work 
from  that  contained  in  Horne  above,  and  strongly  Ra- 
tionalistic] (London,  1862-3,3  vols.  8vo) ; Davidson,  In- 
trod.to  the  X.  T.  [an  excellent,  though  rather  non-com- 
mittal work]  (Loud.  1848-50, 3 vols.  8vo ; last  edit.  18G8 
[more  strongly  inclining  to  Rationalism]) ; Scliolten 
(decidedly  Rationalistic),  Hist.  Krit.  Einl.  ins  N.  T.  (Lpz. 
1853,  J85G);  Block,  Einleitung  in  d.A.  T.  (Berlin,  18G0 
[moderately  Rationalistic] ; translated  into  English, 
Loiul.  18G9,  2 vols.  8vo) ; Blcelc,  Einleit.  in  d.  X.  T.  (Berl. 
I8G2,  18G5 ; translated  into  English,  Edinburgh,  1870, 
2 vols.  8vo) ; Weber,  Kurzgcf.  Einl.  in  d.  Schrift.  A . und 
X.  T.  (Nordl.  18G7,  8vo).  Less  generally  known  arc  the 
following:  llaneberg,  Yersucli  e.  Gesch.  d.  bibl.  nf/enba- 
ruug,  als  Einleitung  ins  A.  und  .V.  T.  (Regensb.  1850) ; 
Prins,  Handbook  to  de  Kennis  v.  d.  heil.  Schriften  d.  0.  e. 
U.  Yerbonds  (Rotterd.  1851-52,  2 vols.)  ; Bauer  (G.  L.), 
Enhv.  e.  krit.  Einl.  in  d.  Schrift.  d.  A.  T.  (Niirnb.  1794, 
1801,  180G);  Ackermann , Introduct.  in  Libros  Yet.  Fad. 
(Vien.  1825);  Schmidt,  Hist. -krit.  Einleitung  ins  X.  T. 
(Giessen,  1804,  2 vols.) ; Sehneckenburger,  Beitr.  z.  Einl. 
ins  X.  T.  (Stnttg.  1832);  Ncudeeker,  Lehrbuch  d.  hist.- 
krit.  Einleit.  ins  X.  T.  (Lpz.  1840);  Roman  Catholic: 
Reithmayr,  Einl.  i.  d.  kanonisch.  Biich.  (Regensb.  1852). 
For  other  works,  see  Walcb,  Hiblii  theca  Theolog.  iii,  31 
sq. ; iv,  196  sq. ; Danz,  Universal.  Worterb.  s.  v.  Bibo!; 
Darling,  Cyclopeedia  Bibliographica,  i,  II  sq. ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop.  s.  v.  Einleitung ; Lange’s  Commentary 
(American  ed.),  i,  G2 ; compare  British  and  For.  Evang. 
Revietr,  October,  1 SGI ; Deutsche  Zeitsch.fchristl.  117s- 
sensch.  April,  18G1 ; Revue  Chret.  1869,  p.  745;  Hauck, 
Theol.  Jahresber.  18G8,  iv,  759.  See  Scriptures,  Holy. 

IntlClbo  (/ trill  go  in),  the  word  taken  from  the  otli 
verse  of  the  42d  Psalm  (in  the  Vulgate),  with  which  the 
Roman  Catholic  priest,  at  the  foot  of  the  altar,  after 
having  made  the  sign  of  the  cross,  begins  the  mass, 
and  to  which  the  servitor  replies  with  the  rest  of  the 
verse.  The  whole  psalm  is  then  recited  alternately  by 
the  priest  and  the  servitor.  In  masses  for  the  dead,  and 
during  Passion-week,  the  psalm  is  not  pronounced. 

Illtroit  (a.)  ( Offieium  Sarunt,  tarot  oc,  Eastern ; Iu- 
gressa, Ambrosian)  is  the  name  (from  the  Latin  introire, 
to  enter)  of  a psalm  or  hymn,  but  now  properly  the  former, 
sung  in  some  churches  as  the  priest  goes  up  to  the  altar 
to  celebrate  the  Eucharist.  “Iutroitum  autem  vocamus 
antiphonam  illam  quam  chorus  cantat  et  saeerdos  ut 
aseendit  ad  altare  legit  cum  versu  et  gloria”  (Martene, 
De  A ntiq.  Monach.  Rit.  1 f,  iv,  9).  According  to  Symeon 
of  Tliessaloniea,  the  introit  typifies  the  union  of  men 
and  angels.  According  to  Freeman  (Princ.  of  JHrine 
Service,  ii,  316),  the  true  introit  consists  of  the  “Hymn 
of  the  only-begotten  Son”  in  the  East,  and  the  Gloria  in 
Excefsis  in  the  further  East  and  the  whole  Western 
Church.  Neale  too  remarks  ( Introd . to  the  East.  ( h.  p. 
363)  that  the  “introitsof  the  liturgies  of  St. Mark,  and 
St.  James,  and  the  Armenian  consist  of  the  hymn  ‘Only- 
begotten  Son.’”  But,  besides  the  introit  proper,  there 
are  general  in  the  Western  Church  a psalm  or  hymn, 
with  antiphon,  varying  according  to  the  season;  and  in 
the  liturgy  of  Chrysostom  we  find  no  less  than  three  of 
these.  Walcott  (Sac.  A rchatol.  p.  331)  says  the  introit 
is  of  two  kinds:  (1.)  regular,  that  sung  daily;  (2.)  the 
irregular,  which  is  chanted  on  festivals.  The  latter  he 


INTRUSION  634  INVESTITURE 


describes  as  having  been  of  old  of  a grand  and  solemn 
character.  “In  a great  church  there  was  a procession 
round  the  nave  to  the  sound  of  bells,  and  with  incense, 
passing  out  by  the  small  gate  of  the  sanctuary  and  re- 
entering by  the  great  doors.  The  deacon  then  went  up 
with  the  Gospel  elevated  in  both  his  hands,  and  set  it 
on  the  midst,  of  the  altar,  so  as  to  be  seen  by  the  people. 
Then  followed  the  introit.  composed  of  several  anthems, 
succeeded  by  prayers  and  the  Trisagion.  The  priest 
and  deacon  intoned  it,  the  choir  and  people  took  it  up, 
and  a candlestick  with  three  lights,  as  a symbol  of  the 
Iloly  Trinity,  was  lighted.”  The  introit  is  believed  to 
have  originated  with  pope  Celestine  (A.D.  422-132),  c. 
430  (comp.  Ilona,  iii,  48).  Before  that  time  the  mass 
had  immediately  succeeded  the  Epistles  of  Paul  and  the 
Gospel.  “ Its  structure  is  that  of  an  antiphon,  followed 
generally  by  a whole  psalm  or  a portion  of  a psalm 
(compare,  however,  Neale,  Pssays  on  Liturgy,  p.  138  sq.), 
and  the  Gloria  Patri,  and  then  by  a repetition  of  the 
whole  or  part  of  the  commencing  antiphon.  In  the  old 
Gregorian  introit  the  antiphon  was  repeated  three  times, 
a custom  found  also  in  the  Sarum  rite;  this  triple  reci- 
tation being  connected  mystically  with  the  three  laws, 
viz.,  the  Natural,  the  Mosaic,  and  the  Evangelic.”  In 
the  English  Chnreh  the  introit  was  introduced  by  Ed- 
ward VI,  in  his  Prayer-book,  before  every  collect,  epistle, 
and  gospel.  It  is  a psalm  containing  something  proper 
for  the  particular  Sunday  or  holiday  to  which  they  were 
applied ; hut  they  were  afterwards  struck  out,  and  the 
choice  of  the  psalm  was  left  to  the  clergyman.  The  in- 
troits  of  each  Sunday  and  holiday  are  given  by  Wheat- 
ley  in  his  Common  Prayer,  p.  205.  See  Blunt,  T/ieol.  Cy- 
clop. i,  355  sq. ; Eadie,  Peeks.  Diet.  s.  v. ; Augusti,  FLind- 
burk  <1.  Chrinfl.  ,4  rckaol.  ii,  773 ; Siegel,  Archaol.  iii,  378. 
See  also  51  ass. 

(5.)  This  word  also  designates  the  verses  sung  at  the 
entering  of  the  congregation  into  the  church,  a custom 
as  old  as  the  4tli  century,  called  ingressa  in  the  Ambro- 
sian Bitual.  See  Palmer,  Oriyines  Lit.  ii,  19. 

Intrusion  (Lat.  intrude,  I thrust  upon),  the  unlaw- 
ful appropriation  or  usurpation  of  a church  benefice,  i.  e., 
if  done  without  the  co-operation  of  the  person  who,  ac- 
cording to  the  canon,  is  entitled  to  the  benefice.  In  the 
Chnreh  of  Scotland,  the  General  Assembly,  in  1736,  pass- 
ed **au  act  against  intrusion  of  ministers  into  vacant 
congregations;”  and  the  reason  assigned  is  the  principle 
of  the  Church  of  Scotland,  “ that  no  minister  shall  be  in- 
truded into  any  church  contrary  to  the  will  of  the  con- 
gregation . . . so  as  none  be  intruded  into  such  parishes, 
as  they  { the  General  Assembly)  regard  the  glory  of  God 
and  edification  of  the  body  of  Christ.”  See  llctliering- 
ton,  / list,  of  Ike  Ch.  of /Scotland,  ii,  218, 302. 

Intuition.  See  Illumination;  Instinct;  Spir- 
itualism. 

Intuition  ok  Goil  See  God. 

Invention  of  the  Cross  is  the.  name  of  a festi- 
val in  the  Latin  and  Greek  churches,  celebrated  May  3, 
in  memory  of  the  invention  of  the  cross  said  to  have 
been  miraculously  discovered  at  Jerusalem  by  Helena, 
the  mother  of  the  emperor  Constantine  the  Great,  in 
32G.  'l'lie  legend  of  it  runs  as  follows : Helena,  being  ad- 
monished in  a dream  to  search  for  the  cross  of  (dirist  at 
Jerusalem,  took  a journey  thither  with  that  intent;  and 
having  employed  laborers  to  dig  at  Golgotha,  after  open- 
ing  the  ground  very  deep  (for  vast  heaps  of  rubbish  had 
purposely  been  thrown  there  by  the  spiteful  dews  or 
heathens),  she  found  three  crosses,  which  she  presently 
concluded  were  the  crosses  of  our  Saviour  and  the  two 
thieves  who  were  crucified  with  him.  But,  being  at  a 
loss  to  know  which  was  the  cross  of  Christ,  she  ordered 
them  all  three  to  be  applied  to  a dead  person.  Two  of 
them,  the  storv  says,  had  no  effect ; but  the  third  raised 
the  carcass  to  life,  which  was  an  evident  sign  to  Helena 
that  that  was  the  cross  she  looked  for.  As  soon  as  this 
was  known,  every  one  was  for  getting  a piece  of  the 
ci  oss,  insomuch  that  in  Pauliims’s  time  (who,  being  a 


scholar  of  St.  Ambrose,  and  bishop  of  Nola,  flourished 
about  the  year  420)  there  was  mueli  more  of  the  relics 
of  the  cross  than  there  was  of  the  original  wood.  Wherc- 
; upon  that  father  says  “ it  was  miraculously  increased ; 
i it  very  kindly  afforded  wood  to  men’s  importunate  de- 
sires without  any  loss  of  its  substance.”  I)r.  Schaff 
comments  on  it  thus : “The  legend  is  at  best  faintly  im- 
plied in  Eusebius,  in  a letter  of  Constantine  to  the  bish- 
op Macarius  of  Jerusalem  ( 1 'it a Const,  iii,  30 — a passage 
which  Gieseler  overlooked— though  in  iii,  25,  where  it 
should  be  expected,  it  is  entirely  unnoticed,  as  Cieseler 
correctly  observes),  and  does  not  appear  till  several  de- 
cennia  later,  first  in  Cyril  of  Jerusalem  (whose  Epist.  ad 
Const antium  of  351,  however,  is  considered  by  Gieseler 
and  others,  on  critical  and  theological  grounds,  a much 
later  production),  then,  with  good  agreement  as  to  the 
main  fact,  in  Ambrose,  Chrysostom,  Paulinus  of  Nola, 
►Socrates,  Sozomen,  Theodoret,  and  other  fathers.  With 
all  these  witnesses  the  fact  is  still  hardly  credible,  and 
has  against  it  particularly  the  following  considerations: 
(1.)  The  place  of  the  crucifixion  was  desecrated  under 
1 the  emperor  Hadrian  by  heathen  temples  and  statues,  be- 
sides being  filled  up  and  defaced  beyond  recognition. 
(2.)  There  is  no  clear  testimony  of  a contemporary.  (3.) 
The  pilgrim  from  Bordeaux,  who  visited  Jerusalem  in 
333,  and  in  a sull  extant  itinerarium  ( Vetera  Rom.  itine- 
raria,  ed.  P.  Wesseling,  p.  593)  enumerates  all  the  sacred 
things  of  the  holy  city,  knows  nothing  of  the  holy  cross 
or  its  invention  (comp.  Gieseler,  i,  2, 279,  note  37 ; Edinb. 
ed.  ii,  36).  This  miracle  contributed  very  much  to  the 
increase  of  the  superstitious  use  of  crosses  and  crucifixes. 
Cyril  of  Jerusalem  remarks  that  about  380  the  splinters 
of’  the  holy  cross  filled  the  whole  world,  and  yet,  accord- 
ing to  the  account  of  the  devout  but  credulous  Paulinus 
of  Nola  {Epist.  3 1 , al.  11)  (whom  we  mentioned  above), 
the  original  remained  in  Jerusalem  undinunislied — a 
continual  miracle  !”  (Schaff,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  450  ; compare 
particularly  the  minute  investigation  of  this  legend  by 
Isaac  Taylor,  The  Invention  of  the  Cross  ami  the  Miracles 
therewith  connected,  in  Ancient  Christianity,  ii,  277-315; 
Wheatley,  Common  Prayer,  p.  61  sq. ; Walcott,  Sacred 
Arc/nrol.  p.  351).  See  Cross.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Investiture  (Latin  investire,  to  put  on  a vest  or 
covering),  in  general,  is  defined  by  medieval  writers  as 
“ the  conferring  or  the  giving  of  possession  of  a fief  or  a 
property  by  a suzerain  lord  to  his  vassal,”  and  was  usu- 
ally accompanied  by  a certain  ceremonial,  such  as  the 
delivery  of  a branch,  a banner,  or  an  instrument  of  of- 
fice, more  or  less  designed  to  signify  the  power  or  au- 
thority which  it  is  supposed  to  convey  (compare  Gott- 
fried. abbot  of  Vendome  [Yindoci  liens  is],  Tractatus  de 
ordinatione  Episcoporum  et  Investitura  Laicorum,  in 
Melch.  Goldasti  A pologiee  pro  Ilenrico  1 V — adr.  Grego- 
rii  VII,  P.  crimimitiones  [Ilamb.  161 1,  p.  2G2]). 

The  contest  about  ecclesiastical  investitures  is  so  in- 
terwoven with  the  whole  course  of  mediaeval  history 
that  a brief  account  of  its  origin  and  nature  is  indis- 
pensable to  a right  understanding  of  many  of  the  most 
important  events  of  that  period. 

1.  By  the  liberality  of  the  northern  nations,  the 
Church  of  Borne  had  gradually  attained  considerable 
wealth,  both  personal  and  real.  “ The  Carlovingian 
and  Saxon  emperors,  the  kings  of  England  and  Leon, 
had  vied  with  their  predecessors  in  bestowing  on  her 
lavish  benefactions,  and  the  clergy  were,  in  consequence, 
no  strangers  to  wealth.  5 1 any  churches  possessed  sev- 
en or  eight  thousand  manses;  one  with  two  thousand 
passed  for  indifferently  rich  (comp.  Hallam,  Middle  Ages , 
ii,  pt.  i,  cli.  vii,  p.  142,  small  English  edition).  Of  the 
lands  possessed  by  the  clergy,  the  greater  part  might 
be  of  little  value  at  t lie  time  they  had  been  given,  per- 
haps consisting  of  wild  and  deserted  tracts  of  country; 
but  they  were  capable  of  cultivation  and  improvement, 
and  as  civilization  and  population  increased  they  be- 
came a source  of  gain  and  profit.”  Nay,  this  accumula- 
tion of  lands  in  the  bands  of  the  clergy  progressed  so 
rapidly  that  it  naturally  excited  the  jealousy  of  the  sow 


INVESTITURE 


635 


INVESTITURE 


ereigns.  These  provocations  were  still  further  sharp-  ; 
ened  by  another  great  source  of  clerical  enrichment,  viz.  | 
the  payment  of  tithes,  which  seems  to  have  received  a 
legal  sanction  in  the  9th  century,  but  which  in  the  12th 
century  had  become  universal.  Still  other  revenues  were  | 
derived  from  the  free  donations  and  offerings  of  the  laity. 
“Some  made  oblations  to  the  Church  before  entering  on 
military  expeditions;  bequests  were  made  by  others  in 
the  terrors  of  dissolution.”  Indeed,  it  became  at  last  a 
pious  custom  to  assign  a portion  of  the  property  of  a de- 
ceased person  to  the  clergy  for  their  distribution  among 
the  poor  and  the  needy.  But  by  degrees  crafty  Boman- 
ists  learned  to  rank  their  churches  among  the  poor, “and 
as  it  was  believed  that  the  deceased  would  regard  them 
with  special  favor,  they  absorbed  the  lion’s  share  of  the 
alms,  until  the  other  poor  were  forgotten  altogether.” 
Thus  what  began  as  a pious  custom  the  Church  gradu- 
ally so  distorted  until  it  all  flowed  into  her  coffers,  and 
was  finally  made  a compulsory  tribute.  But,  as  if  all 
these  sources  of  income  were  not  yet  sufficient  to  meet 
the  wants  of  an  indolent  clergy,  dependent  wholly  for 
their  support  upon  a superstitious  and  ignorant  class,  in 
the  Middle  Ages  as  well  as  in  our  own  day,  the  pen- 
ances were  added,  and,  by  being  made  canonical,  were 
imposed  upon  repentant  offenders;  and  acts  of  lawless- 
ness, which  it  ought  to  have  taken  more  than  an  ordi- 
nary lifetime  to  discharge,  were  allowed  to  be  commit- 
ted for  money  payments.  “ One  day’s  fasting  might  be 
redeemed  with  a penny,  a year’s  fasting  with  thirty 
shillings,  or  with  freeing  a slave  that  was  worth  that 
money  (one  of  the  few  good  things  that  the  Church  of 
the  Middle  Ages  is  guilty  of).  Many,  in  a glow  of 
zeal,  vowed  to  go  on  a crusade,  but,  when  the  first  ardor 
had  cooled  down,  were  glad  to  purchase  exemption. 
Many,  to  atone  for  their  sins,  set  out  on  pilgrimages  to 
well-known  shrines ; and,  as  the  clergy  had  not  failed 
to  inculcate  that  no  atonement  eoidd  he  so  acceptable 
to  Heaven  as  liberal  presents,  large  offerings  were  pre- 
sented to  such  churches  by  the  remorse  of  repentance. 
At  Borne,  in  the  year  of  jubilee,  two  priests  stood  with 
rakes  in  their  hands  sweeping  the  uncounted  gold  and 
silver  from  the  altars.”  No  wonder,  then,  that  the 
Church  and  her  officers  the  bishops,  as  well  as  all  the 
clergy,  with  possessions  so  vast,  and  resources  so  un- 
bounded and  fertile,  became  the  objects  of  suspicion  to 
temporal  princes,  and  objects  of  envy  to  the  nobles. 

2.  But,  while  the  enjoyment  of  these  large  posses- 
sions was  undoubtedly  the  primary  cause  that  provoked 
the  distrust  and  displeasure  of  sovereigns,  the  struggle, 
which  at  the  gjose  of  the  lltli  and  at  the  beginning  of 
the  12th  century  was  especially  fierce  between  Germany 
and  England  on  the  one  side  and  Borne  on  the  other, 
was  directly  brought  about  by  the  symbols  incidental 
to  feudal  tenures.  Investiture  by  the  lord  and  an  oath 
of  fealty  by  the  tenant,  which  were  necessary  in  the 
case  of  all  lay  barons,  had  already,  even  in  the  old 
Frankish  Church,  been  required  of  ecclesiastics  before 
they  were  admitted  to  the  temporalities  of  a see  (llal- 
lam,  Middle  Ages,  ii,  part  i,  ch.  vii,  p.  IS  l ; Beicliel,  See 
of  Rome  in  the.  Middle  Ages.  p.  35G),  and  were  claimed 
to  be  the  special  prerogatives  of  the  king.  But,  instead 
of  fealty  and  homage,  to  which  the  lay  barons  were 
subjected,  the  king  used  symbols  in  the  investiture  of  ec- 
clesiastics. It  had  been  at  first  the  custom  for  the  king 
to  deliver  or  send  to  the  bishops  on  their  installation 
a ring  or  a staff,  the  one  as  a symbol  of  the  close  union 
which  was  to  exist  between  the  bishop  and  his  congre- 
gation, the  other  as  an  emblem  of  his  office  as  guide 
and  shepherd.  The  delivery  of  the  symbols  was  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  fundamental  legal  principle  which 
the  sovereigns  were  anxious  to  impress  on  the  ecclesi- 
astics, viz.  that  all  the  possessions  of  the.  Church  were 
only  held  by  consent  of  the  king  and  as  loans  (benefi- 
cia),  for  which  reason  it  became  also  the  bishop’s  duty 
to  accompany  the  army  when  required  (see  Eichhorn, 
Deutsche  Stauts-  u.  Rechtsgesch.  Gott.  1834,  pt.  i,  p.  202, 
505,  516;  JSugenheim,  Staatsleben  d.  Klerus  i.  Mittelal- 


ter,  Berlin,  1839,  part  i,  p.  315).  The  bestowing  of  the 
symbols  implied  the  installation  into  office,  and  was 
therefore  called  investiture.  The  investiture  with  both 
ring  and  staff  was  not  habitual  at  first.  King  Clo- 
vis I (508)  employed  only  the  ring  (Bouquet,  Rerum 
Gallic,  seriptor.  iv,  616 : “Quicquid  est  fisci  nostril 
per  annulum  tradimus”);  Clovis  II  (623),  Louis  of  Ger- 
many, Arnulf,  and  also  Otto  I,  conferred  only  the  staff, 
while  the  emperors  Henry  II  and  Conrad  II  gave  the 
ring  to  the  bishops  merely  as  a pledge  that  they  would 
afterwards  be  invested  with  the  staff.  It  was  not  till  after 
these  emperors  that  the  investiture  with  both  ring  and 
staff  became  general,  and  the  sceptre  was  added  to  them 
still  later.  (8ee  Musheim,  Jnstitutioncs  hist,  eccles.  p. 
•108,  note  r. ; Hitllmann,  Gesch.d<s  Ursprungs  d.Stande 
i.  Deutschland,  Berlin,  1830,  p.  153;  Planck,  Gesehichte 
der  christlichen  Kirchl.  Gesellschaftsverfassung,  iii,  462.) 
In  the  ninth  century  the  symbols  were  first  interpreted 
as  referring  not  only  to  the  investiture  of  the  clergy  into 
their  office,  but  also  as  an  obligation  answering  to  the 
oath  of  fealty  as  given  by  the  lay  barons. 

For  nearly  two  centuries  the  practice  had  continued 
without  exciting  scandal  or  resistance,  when  the  Church 
began  to  raise  angry  and  frequent  complaints  against  the 
assumption  of  this  right  by  the  lay  suzerains.  “ On  the 
part  of  the  suzerains  it  was  replied  that  they  did  not 
claim  to  grant  by  this  rite  the  spiritual  powers  of  the  of* 

I fiee,  their  function  being  solely  to  grant  possession  of  its 
temporalities,  and  of  the  temporal  rank  thereto  annexed. 
But  the  Church  party  urged  that  the  ceremonial  in  it- 
self involved  the  granting  of  spiritual  powers,  insomuch 
that,  in  ordeT  to  prevent  the  clergy  from  electing  to  a sec 
when  vacant,  it  was  the  practice  of  the  emperors  to  take 
possession  of  the  crosier  and  ring  until  it  should  be  their 
[ own  pleasure  to  grant  investiture  to  their  favorites.” 
The  disfavor  in  which  the  practice  had  long  been  held 
■ by  the  Church  was  first  expressed  by  Clement  II  (sec 
Stenzel,  Gesch.  Deutschl.  u.  d.  franlischen  Kaiser , pt.  i, 
117;  ii,  130), but  its  most  energetic  opponent  it  really 
first  found  in  the  person  of  Gregory  VI 1,  who,  having  in 
the  year  1074  enacted  most  stringent  measures  for  the 
repression  of  simony,  proceeded,  in  the  beginning  of  .the 
year  1075,  to  condemn,  under  excommunication,  the 
] tract  ice  of  investiture,  as  almost  necessarily  connected 
with  simony,  or  leading  to  it.  “The  prohibition  was 
couched  in  the  most  imperious  and  comprehensive  terms. 
It  absolutely  deposed  even'  bishop,  abbot,  or  inferior  ec- 
clesiastic who  should  receive  investiture  from  any  lay 
person.  It  interdicted  him — whosoever  should  be  guilty 
of  this  act  of  ambition  and  rebellion  (which  was  the  sin 
of  idolatry),  until  he  should  have  abandoned  the  bene- 
fice so  obtained — from  all  communion  in  the  favor  of  St. 
Peter,  and  from  admission  into  the  Church.  And  if 
any  emperor,  duke,  marquis,  count,  or  secular  potentate 
or  person  should  presume  to  grant  such  investiture  of 
bishopric  or  inferior  dignity,  he  was  condemned  to  the 
same  sentence.  This  statute  made  a revolution  in  the 
whole  feudal  system  throughout  Europe  as  regarded 
the  relation  of  the  Church  now  dominant  to  the  state. 
In  the  empire  (then  under  Henry  IV)  it  annulled  the 
precarious  power  of  the  sovereign  over  almost  half  his 
subjects.  All  the  great  prelates  and  abbots,  who  were 
at  the  same  time  the  princes,  the  nobles,  the  counsellors, 
the  leaders  in  the  diets  and  national  assemblies,  became 
I to  a great  degree  independent  of  the  crown;  the  em- 
peror had  no  concern,  unless  indirectly,  in  their  promo- 
tion, no  power  over  their  degradation.  Their  lands  and 
estates  were  as  inviolable  as  their  persons.  Where  there 
was  no  fealty  there  could  be  no  treason.  Every  bene- 
fice, on  the  other  hand,  thus  dissevered  from  the  crown 
was  held,  if  not  directly,  yet  at  the  pleasure  of  the  pope. 
For  as  with  him  was  the  sole,  judgment  (the  laity  being 
excluded)  as  to  the  validity  of  the  election,  with  him 
was  the  decision  by  what  offences  the  dignity  might  be 
forfeited  ; and  as  the  estates  and  endowments  were  now 
inalienable,  and  were  withdrawn  from  the  national  prop- 
, erty,  and  became  that  of  the  Church  and  of  God.  the 


INVESTITURE 


636 


INVESTITURE 


pope  might  he,  in  fact,  the  liege  lord,  temporal  and  spir- 
itual, of  half  the  world”  (Mill nan, Lat.  Christianity,  iii, 
416-117).  These  proceedings  of  the  pope  the  kings 
conkl  not,  of  course,  possibly  permit  without  a practical 
abdication  of  all  their  powers,  and  hence  arose  the  con- 
flicts of  investiture  which  resulted  so  triumphantly  for 
the  papacy,  not  only  in  rising  to  a supremacy  over  the 
princes  of  the  earth,  but  drawing  into  their  own  hands 
all  civil  government,  and  which  enabled  some  of  the  in- 
cumbents of  the  papal  see,  e.  g.  Innocent  III,  to  aspire  to 
ha  the  supreme  disposers  of  the  Christian  world,  with  all 
its  belongings  (see  Reichel,  p.  348).  Some  of  the  sover- 
eigns, such  as  Philip  of  France  and  \\  illiain  ol  England, 
paid  no  attention  whatever  to  the  pope’s  mandate,  and 
the  latter,  satisfied  that  they  would  not  actively  oppose 
him,  was  quite  willing  to  let  them  alone;  hut  far  other- 
wise was  his  conduct  towards  the  emperor  Henry  IV, 
whom  he  sought  by  every  possible  exertion  to  compel 
to  submit  to  these  decisions.  For  this  the  licentious 
and  ambitious  character  of  Henry  had  given  him  good 
cause.  Hut  for  a time  he  failed  to  make  any  impression 
on  the  emperor,  who  paid  no  regard  to  the  threats  of 
( Ircgory  VI  I,  but  continued  to  nominate  not  only  to  Ger- 
man, but  also  Italian  bishoprics.  Other  canses  widened 
the  breach  between  the  emperor  and  the  pope.  See  the 
article  Gregory  VII,  vol.  iii,  especially  p.  1003, col.  1. 
After  Hildebrand’s  (Gregory  VII)  death,  the  rivalry  for 
the  papal  throne  assuaged  for  a time  the  controversy  on 
investiture ; each  papal  party,  anxious  to  secure  the 
greatest  number  of,  and  most  powerful  adherents,  will- 
ingly made  all  possible  concessions.  Hut  when  Urban 
IT,  elected  and  supported  by  the  Hildcbrandian  party, 
ascended  the  papal  throne,  the  controversy  was  renewed 
by  his  declaration  “ Nullum  jus  laicis  in  clcricos  esse  volu- 
mes et  censemus,”  and  the  subject  was  even  brought  be- 
fore the  Council  of  Clermont  (1095).  By  canon  15  of  this 
council  clergymen  were  forbidden  to  accept  any  ecclesi- 
astical office  from  a layman;  the  16th  canon  applies  this 
especially  to  kings  and  other  civil  authorities;  canon  17 
forbade  bishops  and  priests  binding  themselves  by  feu- 
dal oaths  to  either  kings  or  other  laymen;  and  canon  18 
threatened  every  one  who,  after  two  warnings,  continued 
in  these  forbidden  relations,  with  deprivation  of  all  office 
and  power.  Yet  Urban  found  more  difficulty  than  he 
had  expected  in  bringing  the  princes  to  second  him  in 
bis  views,  and  he  did  not  succeed  in  enforcing  these  de- 
cisions even  in  Italy,  where  linger  of  Sicily  stoutly  de- 
fended the  rights  of  the  civil  authorities.  Urban, how- 
ever, evaded  the  difficulty  by  naming  linger,  to  whom  he 
was  under  many  obligations,  his  legate  in  Sicily.  The 
death  of  this  pope,  in  1099,  by  no  means  extinguished 
the  opposition,  hut,  instead,  the  contest  became  more  ear- 
nest, and  continued  during  the  most  of  the  11th  century. 
In  the  beginning  of  the  12th  century  it  assumed  a new 
form  under  Pascal  1 1,  whose  name,  of  all  popes,  is  most 
prominently  connected  with  the  question  of  investitures 
both  in  England  and  Germany.  Pascal  II  had  ascended 
the  papal  throne  with  the  intention  of  following  in  the 
footsteps  of  his  predecessors,  but  he  lacked  the  strength 
of  character  necessary  for  determined  action.  “ In  En- 
gland, William  the  Conqueror  had  maintained  his  su- 
premacy over  the  Church  with  an  iron  arm.  Thus  no 
one  was  allowed  to  acknowledge  the  pope,  when  chosen, 
except  by  the  king’s  permission;  no  one  might  receive 
letters  from  Koine  unless  they  had  been  previously 
shown  to  him  for  approval.  The  archbishop  was  not 
permitted  to  frame  any  canon,  although  with  the  assist- 
ance of  the  bishop  of  the  realm,  unless  it  had  been  pre- 
viously sanctioned  by  the  sovereign.  Nor  was  any  bish- 
op allowed  to  excommunicate  a baron  or  minister  of  the 
crown  on  any  charge,  without  having  first  obtained  the 
king’s  consent.  The  same  policy  was  pursued  by  his 
son  V illiam  Kufus,  without  any  difficulties  being  raised 
•m  the  part  of  the  popes.  They  had  too  many  reasons 
for  conciliating  the  friendship  of  the  Normans  in  Italy  to 
venture  to  oppose  their  wishes  in  England.”  Nor  was 
it  otherwise  now  when  archbishop  Anselm  came  for- 


ward, determined  to  execute  the  papal  decisions  con- 
cerning the  investitures,  and  King  Henry  I felt  his  pre- 
rogatives invaded,  and  Anselm  alone  had  to  bear  the 
whole  brunt  of  Henry’s  indignation.  See  Anselm.  In 
1107,  an  agreement  which  had  been  entered  into  be- 
tween the  king  and  the  archbishop  was  finally  proclaim- 
ed with  great  solemnity  at  a synod  convened  for  this 
purpose.  “ By  it  Henry,  whilst  surrendering  an  un- 
necessary ceremony,  retained  a substantial  power;  and 
Anselm’s  scruples  were  set  at  rest  by  a letter  from  Pas- 
chal, in  which  he  freed  those  who  had  received  lay  in- 
vestitures from  the  penalties  pronounced  by  his  prede- 
cessor  Still  more  fortunate  than  the  English 

kings  were  the  kings  of  Castile,  who,  by  directly  yield- 
ing when  Urban’s  decree  was  first  published,  obtained 
from  him  an  absolute  privilege  of  nomination  to  all  bish- 
oprics in  their  dominions — a privilege  which  they  have 
since  retained  by  virtue  of  a particular  indulgence  re- 

I newed  by  the  pope  for  the  life  of  each  prince”  (Reichel, 
p.  363 ; see  Hallam,  Middle  Ayes,  ii,  pt.  i,  ch.  vii,  190). 

But  it  was  in  Germany  that  the  struggle  about  in- 
! vestitures  was  waged  most  fiercely,  and  that  it  also 
; continued  longest.  Taking  advantage  of  the  political 
! troubles  which  were  agitating  the  country,  Paschal  used 
every  exertion  to  detach  the  Church  entirely  from  the 
control  of  the  state.  “ Not  only  had  Paschal  II  begun 
his  course  by  denouncing  lay  investiture  as  strongly  as 
his  predecessor  Urban  II,  but  he  had  also  followed  the 
tactics  of  Urban.”  He  not  only  put  Henry  IY  a second 
time  under  the  ban,  but  even  committed  one  of  the  dark- 
est crimes  in  the  annals  of  history.  He  estranged  from 
llenrv  the  affection  of  those  to  whose  love  and  consider- 
ation he  was  entitled  by  the  nost  sacred  of  laws.  Two 
of  the  sons  of  Henry  IY  were  incited  to  rebellion  against 
their  own  natural  father  (1 101, 1 104),  which  brought  the 
emperor  to  an  untimely  grave  of  broken  heart  (HOG). 
Paschal  now  thought,  of  course,  that  he  had  secured  for 
himself  the  obedience  of  Germany,  and  with  pride  he 
announced  that  henceforth  the  Church  would  begin  to 
enjoy  anew  her  liberty  indeed,  for  death  had  removed, 
and  was  fast  removing,  those  who  opposed  her  suc- 
cess (Mansi,  l.  e.  p.  1209;  Muratori,  Scrip  tores  rerum 
Italic.  Ill,  i,  363);  he  even  caused  the  laws  on  investi- 
ture to  be  reasserted  by  the  councils  of  Troyes,  Bene- 
vento  (1 108),  and  Lateran  ( 1 100).  But  for  once  Paschal 

II  had  made  his  reckoning  without  his  host.  His 
boast,  alas,  how  empty ! “ He  had  not  to  wait  long  be- 
fore he  discovered  its  vainness;  for  Henry  V was  no 
sooner  in  undisputed  possession  of  the  throne  than  he 
maintained  as  stoutly  as  his  father  had  done  his  own 
right  to  invest  bishops.”  Strengthened  in  his  opposi- 
tion by  the  example  of  England,  and  of  France  also,  he 
interpreted  the  actions  of  the  councils  as  threats  at  his 
power,  and  after  a vain  endeavor  to  bring  the  pope  to 
acknowledge  his  right  in  a conference  at  Chalons,  he  re- 
sorted to  arms.  At  the  head  of  a vast  army  he  march- 
ed to  Italy,  and  so  terrified  the  pope  that  he  obtained  a 
very  favorable  compact  without  the  least  difficulty  (Feb. 
9,  1111).  But  the  bishops  refused  to  comply  with  it, 
and  Henry  hesitated  not  to  force  a favorable  conclusion 
by  imprisoning  the  pope  and  his  cardinals.  By  a sec- 
ond treaty,  which  was  now  compacted  (April  8, 1 1 1 1), 
Pascal  II  actually  agreed  to  surrender  all  the  possessions 
and  royalties  with  which  the  Church  had  been  endowed, 
and  which  alone  had  formed  the  subject  of  claim  on  the 
part  of  the  emperor.  To  seal  the  compact  more  firmly, 
the  pope  divided  the  host  with  the  emperor,  and,  after 
coronation,  Henry  returned  to  Germany,  satisfied  that 
Home  had  for  once  been  brought  low  (see  Stenzcl,  pt.  i,  p. 
632  sq.).  This  treaty,  however,  never  had  any  practical 
effect,  for  the  Hildebrandian  party  disapproved  of  the 
pope’s  concessions,  and  “nothing  remained  for  Paschal, 
weak  and  vacillating  Paschal,  lint  to  annul  the  grant,  and 
to  assemble  a council  in  the  Lateran,  and  to  plead  before 
it  that  the  agreement  had  been  concluded  under  the 
pressure  of  circumstances,  in  order  to  save  the  cardinals 
and  the  city  of  Rome ; that  it  was  beyond  his  power  ttf 


INVESTITURE 


637 


INVITATORY 


surrender  any  of  the  liberties  and  rights  of  the  Church  ; 
that  it  was  for  the  assembly  to  examine  the  agreement, 
and  pronounce  thereupon ; hut  that  for  himself  he  would 
adhere  to  his  oath,  and  undertake  nothing  personally 
against  Henry,”  i.  e.  poor  wretched  Paschal  had  sworn 
to  a compact  which  lie  felt  he  could  not  break  himself, 
hut  for  which,  none  the  less  determined  to  abrogate,  he 
sought  a pretext  to  surrender  his  authority  into  the 
hands  of  his  inferiors,  that  they  might  execute  the  wish- 
es of  his  heart,  which  he  dared  not  openly  espouse  as  a 
pope.  The  action  of  the  pope,  however,  in  accordance 
with  his  own  wishes,  was  repudiated  in  a Lateran  coun- 
cil in  1 1 12  (Mansi,  t.  xxi,  p.  49  sq.),  which  even  put.  the 
emperor  again  under  the  ban.  Unfortunately,  llenry 
had  in  the  mean  time  made  himself  many  enemies  at 
home  by  his  course  concerning  the  investitures,  and  the 
excommunication  still  further  increased  his  difficulties; 
yet.  he  succeeded  in  overcoming  them  all  at  the  time 
when  the  papal  see  least  expected  it,  and  his  whole 
power  was  then  directed  against  the  latter,  llenry  re-en- 
tered Italy,  seized  Pome,  and  the  pope,  compelled  to  flee, 
died  at  last  in  banishment,  as  by  his  policy  he  had  well 
deserved  (1118).  Gelasius  II  was  the  next  successor  to 
the  papal  throne;  but  as  he  lived  only  a short  time 
(1119),  the  glory  of  concluding  the  long-]  irotraeted  strug- 
gle was  reserved  for  Calixtus  II,  hut  not  before  one  pre- 
liminary contract  had  been  concluded  and  as  soon  vio- 
lated, nor  before  the  utterance  of  a sentence  of  excom- 
munication and  dethronement  on  Henry  V,  at  the  great 
synod  at  Rheims  (Labbe,  xii).  It  was  now  agreed  that 
every  investiture  should  be  retained,  and  each  bishopric 
restored  to  its  former  incumbent,  but  that  those  belong- 
ing to  the  Church  should  be  governed  according  to  the 
canons,  and  the  secular  ones  bv  the  civil  laws  (Mansi,  t. 
xxi,  p.  244 ; Stenzel,  p.  690).  Upon  a second  consider- 
ation, however,  they  relented,  and  the  question  of  the 
oath  soon  created  new  pretexts  for  the  struggle  between 
them,  and,  in  a synod  of  Kheims  (1119),  Calixtus  put 
the  emperor  under  the  ban,  and  deposed  him  (Mansi,  f. 
c.,  p.  250).  In  the  mean  time,  archbishop  Adalbert,  of 
Mentz,  created  troubles  in  Germany.  Calixtus  strength- 
ened his  position  in  Rome,  and  even  succeeded  in  taking  J 
the  anti-pope,  Gregory  VIII,  whom  the  emperor  had  op- 
posed to  him,  prisoner;  yet  the  public  sentiment  of  Ger- 
many was  strong  enough  to  compel  the  papal  party 
finally  to  adopt  the  course  which  Ivo  of  Chartres  and 
the  monk  Hugo  of  Flenrv  had  commanded.  “It  was 
an  intermediate  course  between  the  extreme,  views  of 
the  Gregorian  party  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  secular- 
izing tendencies  of  their  opponents  on  the  other.  It 
combated  the  Gregorian  position  that  it  was  a degra- 
dation for  the  priesthood  to  own  itself  subject  to  any 
lay  authority,  and  held  fast  to  the  principle  that  to  God 
must  be  rendered  that  which  is  God’s,  and  to  Cwsar  that 
which  is  Caesar’s.  It  therefore  maintained  that  the  king  , 
ought  not  to  invest  the  candidate  bishop  with  staff  and 
ring,  these  being  the  symbols  of  spiritual  jurisdiction, 
and,  as  such,  belonging  to  the  archbishop ; but  it  allow- 
ed homage  to  be  done  to  the  emperor,  and  the  use  of 
some  other  symbol  for  bestowing  the  temporalities.” 
The  celebrated  concordat  of  Worms,  Sept.  1122  (Mansi, 
l.  c.  p.  273  sq.),  finally  settled  the  question  to  the  satis- 
faction of  all  parties,  and  the  Lateran  Council  of  1123 
gave  its  full  approval  (comp.  Mansi,  /.  c.  p.  277).  The 
emperor  agreed  to  give  up  the  form  of  investiture  with 
the  ring  and  pastoral  staff,  to  grant  to  the  clergy  the 
right  of  free  elections,  and  to  restore  all  the  possessions 
of  the  Church  of  Rome  which  had  been  seized  either  by 
himself  or  by  his  father;  while  the  pope,  on  his  part, 
consented  that  the  elections  should  be  held  in  the  pres- 
enee  of  the  emperor  or  his  official,  but  with  a right  of 
appeal  to  the  provincial  synod:  that  investiture  might 
be  given  by  the  emperor,  but  only  by  the  touch  of  the 
sceptre ; and  that  the  bishops  and  other  church  digni- 
taries should  faithfully  discharge  all  the  feudal  duties 
which  belonged  to  their  principality  (see  Montag.  p.43C> 
*q. ; Stenzel,  p.  704).  Lothair  III,  Henry’s  successor, 


rendered  these  conditions  still  more  advantageous  to 
the  Roman*  see  by  substituting  a more  general  profes- 
sion for  the  feudal  oath  (see  J.  D.  Olenschlager,  Etliiu- 
teruny  d.guldenen  Bulk , Frankfort,  1766 ; Urkundmluch , 
p.  19).  This  measure,  to  some  extent,  at  least,  allayed 
the  ill  will  which  the  hierarchical  party  bore  to  the  Con- 
cordat of  Worms.  The  pope  had  in  reality  secured  but 
few  actual  advantages  by  the  concordat,  yet  the  freedom 
of  election  obtained  by  it  in  the  place  of  the  influence 
exercised  over  them  by  the  emperor  was  sure  in  due 
time  to  be  of  great  advantage  to  the  papacy.  It  cer- 
tainly had  considerable  effect  in  restraining  one  of  the 
greatest  abuses  of  the  Middle  Ages,  if  not  in  eradicating 
altogether  the  real  evil  of  simony  and  corrupt  promo- 
tion of  unworthy  candidates  for  ecclesiastical  offices; 
and  although,  even  as  late  as  the  12th  century,  we  find 
instances  of  the  emperor’s  interference  in  the  election 
of  German  bishops,  and  even  of  his  direct  appoint- 
ments to  such  offices  (see  Kugcnlieim,&faatefe£en  d.  Kle- 
iiis  im  Mittelulter,  Ucrlin,  1839,  pt.  i,  p.  153),  these  in- 
stances are,  after  all,  only  few  in  number,  and  disappear 
altogether  after  the  times  of  Otto  IV  and  Frederick  II. 
Civil  interference  in  ecclesiastical  appointments  ceased 
also  in  France, England, and  Spain;  but  in  Naples,  11  an- 
gary, Denmark,  and  Sweden,  the  kings  continued  to  ap- 
point bishops  until  the  13tli  century  (Sugenheim,  p.  197). 

For  monographs,  see  Volbcding,  Index,  p.  1G5.  On  the 
general  subject,  see  Staudenmaier,  (, 'esc /rich te  d.  Eischofs- 
icuhlen  (Tubing.  1830,  p.  249);  Keicliel,  See  of  Rome  in 
the  Middle  Ages,  pt.  ii,  chap,  xii ; Gosselin,  TWer  of  tie 
rope,  ii,  345 ; M ilman,  Hist,  of  Lot.  Christianity,  iii,  415; 
iv,  146  sq. ; Robertson,  Ilist.  of  the  Christian  Church,  p. 
572  sq. ; Ihitler,  IJccles.  Ilist.  to  13 th  Cent.  p.  474  sq.,  492 
sq. ; Mosheim,  Kecks.  Ilist.  p.  327,  et  al. ; Herzog,  Ikal- 
Encyklop.  vi,  s.  v. ; Chambers,  Cyclop,  s.  v.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Invisible  Church.  See  Church. 

Invisibles  is  the  name  given  to  the  school  of  the- 
ologians who  held  that  the  Church  of  Christ  was  not 
always  visible.  See  Hagenbaeh,  History  of  Doctrines, 
i,  354 ; ii,  § 25G. 

Invitatores.  See  Invitatory. 

Invitatory  is  a short  antiphon,  suitable  to  the  oc- 
casion, sung  or  recited  before  tbe  Venite  Exultemus  Dom- 
ino, or  interpolated  between  the  verses  of  this  psalm  and 
the  Gloria  Patti  also.  The  95th  Psalm,  as  an  “invita- 
tion to  praise,”  is  supposed  to  have  been  used  by  the 
early  Christians,  adopted,  no  doubt,  from  the  Temple 
service.  In  the  Greek  as  well  as  the  Latin  churches  it 
is  still  in  use,  though  the  two  churches  differ  somewhat 
in  form.  In  the  East  the  following  three  clauses  only 
are  used : 

“ O come,  let  us  worship  God  our  King; 

O come,  let  ns  worship  and  fall  down  before  Christ  our 
King  and  God; 

O come,  let  us  worship  before  Christ  himself,  our  King 
and  God 

but  in  the  Western  churches  the  whole  psalm  has  al- 
ways been  used,  accompanied  generally  by  the  inrita- 
tory,  the  latter  varying,  of  course,  according  to  the  sub- 
I ject  of  the  office  to  which  they  invite  thought.  It 
always  consists  of  two  clauses:  “both  are  said  before 
the  psalm,  and  at  the  end  of  the  second,  seventh,  and 
last  verses;  the  second  clause  only  at  the  end  of  the 
fourth  and  ninth  verses.  The  Gloria  Patri  is  followed 
first  by  the  second  and  then  by  both  clauses.  The 
, Breviary  of  cardinal  Quignones  restricted  the  invitatory 
to  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  psalms.”  The  ninefold 
1 repetition  of  the  whole  or  a part  of  the  invitatory  is  of 
great  antiquity.  Durandus  thus  refers  to  its  mystical 
bearing:  “The  invitatory  is  repeated  six  times  at  full 
length, because  six  is  the  first  perfect  number;  and  the 
sixfold  repetition,  therefore,  sets  forth  the  perfection 
with  which  we  should  endeavor  to  perform  the  service 
of  God.  Three  is  an  imperfect  number,  and  therefore 
j the  imperfect  repetition  takes  place  three  times.”  On 
1 the  double  feasts  of  the  Western  Church  the  invitatory 
I is  doubled  at  matins,  lauds,  and  vespers.  In  the  Eng- 


INVOCATION  OF  ANGELS  G38  INVOCATION  OF  SAINTS 


lull  Church,  where  the  order  of  daily  prayer  is  chiefly  j 
taken  from  the  corresponding  offices  of  t lie  Sarum  Urey-  j 
i iry  (of  which  the  rubric  runs  thus  [after  the  Gloria 
anil  Allelulia  ] : “ Sequatur  invitatorium  hoc  modo.  Ecce 
venit  rex.  Occuramus  obviam  Salvatori  nostro.  Ps. 
Venite;  post  i,  iii  et  v,  vers,  psalm  repet  at  ur  totum  in- 
vitatorium. Tost,  ii,  vers,  iv  et  vi,  vers.psalmi  repeta- 
tnr  solum  hcec  purs,  Occuramus.  Et  deinde  reincipiatur 
totum  invitatorium"),  the  opening  sentences  of  matins 
and  evensong  are  generally  considered  to  be  of  a similar 
character  (compare  Procter,  Common  Prayer,  p.  182; 
Freeman,  Principles  of  Divine  Service,  i,  152  sq.).  Blunt 
(77 'mol.  Cyclop,  i,  356),  however,  says  that  the  true  invi- 
tatory  of  the  English  Church  “ is  in  the  fixed  versicle 
‘ ] ‘raise  ye  the  Lord,’  with  its  response,  ‘The  Lord’s 
name  be  praised.’  The  singing  of  Allelulia  after  the 
Gloria  Patri,  at  the  commencement  of  matins,  was  or- 
dered in  the  Prayer-book  of  1549.  The  response  was 
inserted  in  1661.  The  95th  Psalm,  with  this  versicle  and 
response,  is  to  be  considered  as  an  unvarying  invitatory 
in  the  modern  English  rite,  except  on  Easter  day,  for 
which  special  provision  is  made.”  See  also  Neale,  Li- 
turgical Essays,  p.  7 sq.,  et  al.;  Comment,  on  the  Psalms, 
i,  43  sq. ; "Walcott,  Sacred  .1  rchieology,  p.  332. 

Invocation  of  Angels,  or  the  act  of  addressing 
prayers  to  angels,  especially  to  the  angel-guardian,  pre- 
vails in  the  Roman  and  the  Greek  churches,  as  well  as 
in  all  the  different  Eastern  churches.  They  hold  that 
angels  are  sharers  of  the  divine  nature,  though  in  a 
somewhat  subordinate  measure.  In  the  same  manner 
they  also  permit  the  invocation  of  saints  (q.  v.)  even, 
anil  designate  this  worship  under  the  technical  term  of 
covXtia,  in  distinction  from  the  worship  of  God  himself, 
which  they  term  Xarptia.  See  Ilagenbach,  History  of 
Doctrines,  i,  141,  142,  338  sq.  Compare  Angels;  Ven- 

EKATIOX. 

Invocation  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  In  the  prayer 
of  the  mediaeval  canon,  retained  also  in  the  Scottish  of- 
fice on  the  consecration  of  the  elements  for  the  Lord’s 
Supper,  the  Holy  Ghost  is  thus  invoked:  Vouchsafe 
so  to  bless  and  sanctify  with  thy  word  and  Iloly  Spirit 
these  thy  gifts  and  creatures  of  bread  and  wine  that 
they  may  be  unto  us  the  body  and  blood  of  thy  most 
dearly  beloved  Son,” 

Invocation  of  Saints,  a form  of  idolatry  pre- 
vailing in  the  Roman,  the  Greek,  and  the  different 
Eastern  churches.  They  ignore  the  doctrine  to  which 
the  Protestants  tenaciously  cling,  that  the  rendering  of 
divine  worship  to  one  Infinite  Being  must  of  necessity 
exclude  the  idea  of  rendering  divine  worship,  no  matter 
how  modified  and  excused,  to  any  other  being,  depend- 
ent upon  and  created  by  the  Supreme  Being.  Thev 
also  deny  that  the  invocation  of  the  created,  instead  of 
the  Creator,  does  in  any  wise  trench  upon  the  honor  due 
only  to  God,  and  that  it  is,  as  we  assert,  irreconcilable 
with  Scripture,  “ which  holds  him  forth  as  the  sole  ob- 
ject of  worship,  and  the  only  fountain  of  mercy.”  They 
cannot,  of  course,  disprove  these  truths  from  Scripture, 
neither  can  they  furnish  any  authority  from  the  holy 
book  for  a practice  unknown  to  the  early  Church,  and 
expressly  condemned  by  the  Council  of  Laodicca  (A.I). 
•1H 1 ) and  by  the  early  fathers.  The  few  passages  which 
they  frequently  cite  they  themselves  claim  only  to  im- 
ply an  intercommunion  of  the  two  worlds  (as  Matt,  xiii, 
3;  Luke  xiv,  17;  Exod.  xxiii,  13),  anil  they  are  there- 
fore obliged  to  have  recourse  to  tradition.  To  this  end 
they  cite  some  of  the  Church  fathers,  such  as  Origen 
(Gpp.  ii,  273),  Cyprian  ( Ep.  60,  Dodwell’s  edition),  I3a- 
sil  ( Opp.  ii,  155),  Gregory  Nazianzen  (Cpp.  i,  2««),  Greg- 
ory of  Xvssa  (ii.  1017)'  Ambrose  (ii,  200),  Chrysostom 
(iv,  419),  and  especially  the  liturgies  of  the  different 
ancient  churches  of  Roman,  Greek,  Syrian,  and  even 
Egyptian  rite.  But,  while  these  testimonies  are  gener- 
ally credited,  it  must  be  remembered  that  they  are  onlv 
unscriptural  additions,  and  that  thev  originated  after 
the  infusion  into  the  Church  system  of  Alexandrian  1 


Neoplatonism  and  Oriental  Magianism,  which  left  its 
traces  even  in  the  most  orthodox  form  of  Christian  wor- 
ship, and  creed  also,  up  to  the  4th  and  5th  centimes,  a 
period  in  the  history  of  the  Christian  Church  when  her- 
esies were,  to  use  a common  phrase,  almost  the  order  of 
the  day.  Nay,  even  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  ad- 
mits that  the  worship  of  saints  was  carried  to  an  excess 
not  only  in  this  age,  but  especially  in  the  medieval  pe- 
riod. The  worship  of  saints  and  of  the  Virgin  Mary 
then  took  the  place  of  the  worship  of  Christ,  the  only 
legal  intercessor  between  God  and  man,  and  thus  virtu- 
ally ignored  the  mediatorship  of  Christ.  It  is  true 
some  of  the  more  enlightened  and  less  bigoted  of  the 
Romanists  claim  that  the  saints  are  only  invoked,  “not 
for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  mercy  or  grace  from  them- 
selves directly,  hut  in  order  to  ask  their  prayers  or  in- 
tercession with  God  on  our  behalf’  (see  Bellarmine, 
Controversy  de  Sanctorum  Beatitudine,  lib.  i,  cap.  xvii). 
But  as  we  have  already  stated  in  our  article  on  the  im- 
maculate conception  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  we  repeat  also 
here,  that  it  is  not  for  ns  to  examine  only  the  intent  of 
the  Romish  liturgy,  but  also  what  her  communicants 
understand  it  to  mean.  Here  lies  the  greatest  difficul- 
ty, to  say  the  least,  against  the  introduction  of  a mode 
of  worship  wholly  unauthorized  by  the  word  inspired 
by  God  to  serve  as  a guide  in  all  things.  It  brings 
borne  again  not  only  the  question  of  the  immaculate 
conception  of  Mary,  but  even  the  infallibility  theory  of 
the  vicar  of  Rome.  Protestants  are  unwilling  to  take 
any  authority  except  the  word  of  God;  they  refuse  to 
acknowledge  as  infallible  any  one  except  the  Infinite 
Being  himself.  It  was  this  view  that  inaugurated  the 
Reformation,  however  much  it  may  have  been  hastened 
by  the  sale  of  indulgences  (see  Ilagenbach,  History  of 
Doctrines,  ii,  § 257).  “The  Church  of  Rome  is  justly 
and  scripturally  charged  with  idolatry  in  the  worship, 
adoration,  and  invocation  which  she  addresses  to  saints 
and  angels.  Idolatry,  in  the  scriptural  application  of 
the  term,  is  of  two  sorts,  and  consists  (1)  either  in  giv- 
ing the  honor  due  to  the  one  true  God,  as  maker  and 
governor  of  the  world,  to  any  subordinate  being,  (2) 
or  in  giving  the  honor  due  to  Christ,  as  the  sole  media- 
tor between  God  and  man,  to  any  subordinate  mediator. 
The  former  is  the  idolatry  forbidden  by  the  Jewish  law, 
and  by  that  of  nature.  The  latter  is  Christian  idolatry, 
properly  so  called,  and  is  the  abomination  condemned 
in  severe  terms  by  the  Gospel.  This  species  of  idolatry 
is,  without  doubt,  chargeable  on  any  Christian  Church 
that  shall  adopt,  in  its  religious  addresses,  another  me- 
diator besides  Jesus  Christ.  But  the  Church  of  Rome, 
not  merely  in  the  private  writings  of  her  divines,  but  in 
the  solemn  forms  of  her  ritual,  publicly  professes,  and 
by  her  canons  and  councils  authoritatively  enjoins,  the 
worship  of  saints  and  angels,  under  the  idea  of  media- 
tors or  intercessors;  not,  indeed,  in  exclusion  of  Christ 
as  the  one  or  chief  mediator,  but  in  manifest  defiance  of 
bis  sole  mediatorship.  This  charge  is  truly  and  justly 
brought  against  her,  as  she  now  stands,  and  hath  stood 
for  many  ages,  and  cannot  by  any  subterfuge  be  evaded. 
Therefore  she  must  be  content  to  have  the  imputation 
of  daemon-worship,  or  anti-Christian  idolatry,  still  ad- 
hering to  her”  (Elliott). 

As  a regular  doctrine,  the  invocation  of  saints  is 
taught  in  a canon  Touching  the  Invocation , Veneration , 
and  on  Relics  of  Saints  and  sacred  Images,  issued  by  the 
Council  of  Trent  in  its  25th  session.  It.  reads  as  follows : 
“ The  holy  synod  enjoins  on  all  bishops,  and  others  sus- 
taining the  office  and  charge  of  teaching,  that,  accord- 
ing to  the  usage  of  the  Catholic  and  Apostolic  Church, 
received  from  the  primitive  times  (!)  of  the  Christian 
religion,  and  according  to  the  consent  of  the  holy  fa- 
thers, and  to  the  decrees  of  sacred  councils,  they  espe- 
cially instruct  the  faithful  diligently  touching  the  inter- 
cession and  invocation  of  saints,  the  honor  paid  to  rel- 
ics, and  the  lawful  use  of  images:  teaching  them  that 
the  saints,  who  reign  together  with  Christ,  offer  un  their 
own  prayers  to  God  for  men;  that  it  is  good  and  useful 


IONA 


INVOCATION  OF  SAINTS  639 


suppliantly  to  invoke  them,  and  to  resort  to  their  pray- 
ers, aid,  and  help  for  obtaining  benefits  from  God,  through 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  who  alone  is  our  Re- 
deemer and  Saviour;  but  that  they  think  impiously 
who  deny  that  the  saints,  who  enjoy  eternal  happiness 
in  heaven,  are  to  be  invoked  ; or  who  assert  either  that 
they  do  not  pray  for  men,  or  that  the  invocation  of 
them  to  pray  for  each  of  us  even  in  particular  is  idola- 
try; or  that  it  is  repugnant  to  the  Word  of  God,  and  is 
opposed  to  the  honor  of  the  one  mediator  between  God 
and  men,  Jesus  Christ ; or  that  it  is  foolish  to  supplicate, 
orally  or  inwardly,  those  who  reign  in  heaven.  Also, 
that  the  holy  bodies  of  holy  martyrs,  and  of  others  now 
living  with  Christ,  which  were  the  living  members  of 
Christ,  and  the  temple  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  which  are 
by  him  to  be  raised  unto  eternal  life,  and  to  be  glorified, 
are  to  be  venerated  by  the  faithful;  through  which 
[bodies]  many  benefits  are  bestowed  by  God  on  men; 
so  that  they  who  affirm  that  veneration  and  honor  are 
not  due  to  the  relics  of  saints;  or  that  these,  and  other 
sacred  monuments,  are  uselessly  honored  by  the  faith- 
ful ; and  that  the  places  dedicated  to  the  memories  of 
the  saints  are  vainly  visited  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining 
their  aid,  are  wholly  to  be  condemned,  as  the  Church 
has  already  long  since  condemned,  and  doth  now  also 
condemn  them.  Moreover,  that  the  images  of  Christ, 
of  the  Virgin  Mother  of  God,  and  of  the  other  saints,  are 
to  be  had  and  retained  particularly  in  temples,  and  that 
due  honor  and  veneration  are  to  be  awarded  them;  not 
that  any  divinity  or  virtue  is  believed  to  be  in  them,  on 
account  of  which  they  are  to  be  worshipped ; or  that  j 
anything  is  to  be  asked  of  them  ; or  that  confidence  is 
to  be  reposed  in  images,  as  was  of  old  done  by  the  Gen-  | 
tiles,  who  placed  their  hope  in  idols ; but  because  the  | 
honor  which  is  shown  unto  them  is  referred  to  the  pro- 
totypes which  they  represent ; in  such  wise  that  by  the 
images  which  we  kiss,  and  before  which  we  uncover  the 
head  and  prostrate  ourselves,  we  adore  Christ  and  ven- 
erate the  saints,  whose  similitude  they  bear.  And  this, 
by  the  decrees  of  councils,  and  especially  of  the  second 
synod  of  Niaea,  has  been  ordained  against  the  oppo- 
nents of  images.  And  the  bishops  shall  carefully  teach 
this:  that,  by  means  of  the  histories  of  the  mysteries  of 
onr  redemption,  depicted  by  paintings  or  other  repre- 
sentations, the  people  are  instructed,  and  strengthened 
in  remembering  and  continually  reflecting  on  the  arti- 
cles of  faith ; as  also  that  great  profit  is  derived  from  all 
sacred  images,  not  only  because  the  people  are  thereby1 
admonished  of  the  benefits  and  gifts  which  have  been 
bestowed  upon  them  by  Christ,  but  also  because  the  ; 
miracles  of  God  through  the  means  of  the  saints,  and 
their  salutary  example,  are  set  before  the  eyes  of  the  ! 
faithful;  that  so  for  these  things  they  may  give  God 
thanks;  may'  order  their  own  life  and  manners  in  imi- 
tation of  the  saints;  and  may  be  excited  to  adore  and 
love  God,  and  to  cultivate  piety.  But  if  any  one  shall 
teach  or  think  contrary  to  these  decrees,  let  him  be 
anathema.” 

Most  ridiculous  is  the  defence  which  Ffoulkes  ( Chris- 
tendom's Divisions,  i,  § 86)  advances  in  behalf  of  this 
species  of  idolatry',  while  y'et  in  communion  with  the 
Romish  Church;  and  his  friends  of  the  High-Church 
party'  of  England  and  our  own  country  may'  do  well  to 
read  it  before  they'  carry  much  farther  the  laughable  af- 
fectations which  they'  term  “ devotions.”  While  defend- 
ing the  gross  forgeries  of  Pius  V in  the  missal  and  bre- 
viarv  of  the  Church,  sometimes  designated  by  Romanists 
as  “ revisions,”  on  the  invocation  of  saints  and  of  Mary, 
he  says,  “ They  were  but  the  expressions  of  what  had 
been  the  devotional  feelings  of  the  whole  Church.  . . . 
His  Holy  Spirit  communing  with  their  spirits,  and  no 
other  agent  or  instrument,  had  taught  them  that  the 
saints  reigning  with  Christ,  and  his  blessed  Mother  es- 
pecially', could  and  would  intercede  for  them  did  tjiey 
ask  their  pray'ers;  and  so  one  asked,  and  had  his  peti- 
tions granted,  and  a3ked  again.  Then  he  breathed  the 
secret  (!)  of  his  success  to  his  brother  or  friend,  till  he  in 


turn  was  encouraged  to  ask.  Then  another,  and  an- 
other, as  the  secret  was  passed  about  from  house  to 
hamlet,  and  from  hamlet  to  town,  and  from  one  country 
to  another,  till  at  length  it  had  spread  over  Christen- 
dom.” If  this  was  the  way  in  which  the  invocation  of 
saints  was  practised,  to  authorize  its  admission  in  the 
litany'  by  Pius  V in  the  1 6tli  century',  and  its  affirmation 
as  a doctrine  by'  the  Council  of  Trent,  then  why'  adduce 
the  Church  fathers  of  the  early'  age,  and  the  practices 
of  some  Christian  churches  of  an  age  when  the  Church 
of  Christ  was  so  greatly'  corrupted  and  overrun  by'  inno- 
vation? The  Protestants  also  believe  in  saints.  They 
believe  in  imitating  the  noble  character  exemplified  in 
their  life  while  on  earth,  which  is  a very  different  thing 
from  invoking  them  to  intercede  in  Christ’s  stead  before 
the  throne  of  God  the  Father.  See  Marheineke, , Sym- 
bol ik,  iii,  439  ; Freeman,  Claggett,  and  Whitby,  in  Gib- 
son’s Preservative,  vii ; Dublin  Per.  April,  1853;  Pusey, 
Pule  of  Faith,  p.  55  sq. ; lluss  (John),  De  Mysterio  A n- 
tichristi,  c.  23  ; Schrockh,  Kirchengesch.  xxxiv,  614  sq. ; 
Elliott,  Delineation  of  Romanism,  p.753  sq. ; Chambers, 
Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Eadie,  Eccles.  Cyclop,  s.  v.  See  also  Im- 
ages ; Saints.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Invocations.  About  the  8th  century',  says  Proc- 
ter (On  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer,  p.  249),  the  invo- 
cations of  saints  (q.  v.)  were  introduced  into  the  church- 
es of  the  West,  and  called  the  Litany,  a name  given  to 
various  other  services.  See  Litany.  (Comp.  Rcnau- 
dot,  IAturg.  Orient,  i,  356;  Bingham,  Antiq.  xv,  i,  § 2; 
Mabillon,  A nalect.  iii,  669  sq.) 

Invocavit,  a name  sometimes  given  to  the  first 
Sunday'  in  Lent  on  account  of  the  Juiroit  (q.  v.’l,  which 
opens,  “ Invocavit  me  et  exaudiam  eum,”  etc.  (Psa.  xci, 
15). — Riddle,  Christian  Antiquities,  p.  668. 

Iona  (formerly  loua ),  one  of  the  most  famous  of  the 
Hebrides.  It  is  about  three  miles  long,  and  varies  in 
breadth  from  a mile  to  a mile  and  a half.  In  1861  it' 
had  a population  of  264.  Its  remarkable  fertility  was 
regarded  as  miraculous  in  the  Dark  Ages,  and  no  doubt 
led  to  its  early'  occupation.  Dunii,  the  highest  point 
on  the  island,  is  330  feet  above  the  sea-level.  Its  his- 
tory' begins  in  the  year  563,  when  St.  Coliunba  (q.  v.), 
leaving  the  shores  of  Ireland,  landed  upon  Iona  with 
twelve  disciples.  Having  obtained  a grant  of  the  isl- 
and, as  well  from  his  kinsman  Conall,  the  son  of  Com- 
ghall,  king  of  the  Scots,  as  from  Bruidi,  the  son  of  Mel- 
ehon,  king  of  the  Piets,  he  built  upon  it  a monastery', 
which  was  long  regarded  as  the  mother-chureli  of  the 
Piets,  and  was  venerated  not  only'  among  the  Scots  of 
Britain  and  Ireland,  but  among  the  Angles  of  the  north 
of  England,  who  owed  their  conversion  to  the  self-deny'- 
ing  missionaries  of  Iona.  From  the  6tli  to  the  17th 
century',  the  island  was  most  generally  called  I,  Ii,  la, 
Jo,  Eo,  Jly,  Hi,  11  ii,  Hie,  Hu,  Y,  or  Yi — that  is,  sim- 
ply', “ the  Island ;”  or  (on  Columba’s  account)  Icolmkill, 
I-Columb-Kille,  or  J/ii-Colum-Kille — that  is,  “the  Isl- 
and of  Columba  of  the  Church.”  From  the  end  of  the 
6th  to  the  end  of  the  8tli  century  Iona  was  scarcely'  sec- 
ond to  any'  monastery'  in  the  British  Lies;  but  the  fierce 
and  heathen  Norsemen  burned  it  in  795,  and  again  in 
802.  Its  “family”  (as  the  monks  were  called)  ol’sixty'- 
eight  persons  were  martyred  in  806.  A second  martyr- 
dom, in  825,  is  the  subject  of  a contemporary  Latin  poem 
by'  Walafridus  Strabus,  abbot  of  the  German  monastery 
of  Reielienau,  in  the  Lake  of  Constance.  On  the  Christ- 
mas evening  of  986  the  island  was  again  wasted  by  the 
Norsemen,  who  slew  the  abbot  and  fifteen  of  liis  monks. 
Towards  the  end  of  the  next  century'  the  monastery  was 
repaired  by  ,St.  Margaret,  the  queen  of  king  Malcolm 
Canmore.  It  was  visited  in  1097  by  king  Magnus  the 
Barefooted,  of  Norway,  being  at  that  time  a part  of  that 
kingdom,  and  so  fell  under  the  ecclesiastical  jurisdiction 
of  the  bishop  of  Man  and  the  archbishop  of  Drontheim. 
In  1203  the  bishops  of  the  north  of  Ireland  disputed  the 
authority'  of  the  Manx  bishop,  pulled  down  a monastery 
which  he  had  begun  to  build  in  the  island,  and  placed 


IONIA 


640 


IRA 


the  abbey  under  the  rule  of  an  Irish  abbot  of  Derry. 
The  Scottish  Church  had  long  claimed  jurisdiction  in 
Iona,  and  before  the  end  of  the  13th  century  the  island 
fell  under  the  rule  of  the  Scottish  king.  Its  abbey  was 
now  peopled  by  Clugniac  monks;  and  a nunnery  of 
Austin  cauoncsses  was  planted  on  its  shores.  Towards 
the  end  of  the  loth  century  it  became  the  seat  of  the 
Scottish  bishop  of  the  Isles,  the  abbey  church  being  his 
cathedral,  and  the  monks  his  chapter.  No  building 
now  remains  on  the  island  which  can  claim  to  have 
sheltered  St.  Columba  or  his  disciples.  The  most  an- 
cient ruins  are  the  Laithricliean,  or  Foundations,  in  a 
little  bay  to  the  west  of  l’ort-a-Clmrraich ; the  Cobban 
Cuildich,  or  Ciddees’  Cell,  in  a hollow  between  Dunii 
and  Dunbhuirg;  the  rath  or  hill-fort  of  Dinibhnirg; 
and  the  Gleaiiii-an-Teampull,  or  (lien  of  the  Church,  in 
the  middle  of  the  island,  believed  to  he  the  site  of  the 
monastery  which  the  Irish  bishops  destroyed  in  1203. 
St.  Oran's  Chapel,  now  the  oldest  church  in  the  island, 
may  probably  be  of  the  latter  part  of  the  11th  century. 
St.  Mary’s  Nunnery  is  perhaps  a century  later.  The 
Cathedral,  or  St.  Mary’s  Church,  seems  to  have  been 
built  chiefly  in  the  early  part  of  the  13th  century.  It 
has  a choir,  with  a sacristy  on  the  north  side,  and  chap- 
els on  the  south  side;  north  and  south  transepts;  a cen- 
tral tower  about  seventy-five  feet  high,  and  a nave. 
An  inscription  on  one  of  the  columns  of  the  choir  ap- 
pears to  denote  that  it  was  the  work  of  an  Irish  ecclesi- 
astic who  died  in  1202.  On  the  north  of  the  cathedral 
are  the  chapter-house  and  other  remains  of  the  conven- 
tual or  monastic  buildings.  In  the  “I’eilig  Oran’’ — so 
called,  it  is  supposed,  from  St.  Oran,  a kinsman  of  St. 
Columba,  the  first  who  found  a grave  in  it — were  buried 
Ecgfrid,  king  of  Northumbria,  in  OS 4 ; Godrcd,  king  of 
the  Isles,  in  1188;  and  llaeo  Ospac,  king  of  the  Isles,  in 
1228.  No  monuments  of  these  princes  now  remain. 
The  oldest  of  the  many  tomb-stones  on  the  island  are 
two  with  Irish  inscriptions,  one  of  them,  it  is  believed, 
being  the  monument  of  a bishop  of  Connor  who  died  at 
Iona  in  1174. — Chambers,  Cyclop,  v,  610;  Duke  of  Ar- 
gyll, in  Good  Words , Sept.  1,  I860,  p.  G14  sq. ; Princeton 
Rep.  1807,  p.  1-22.  See  also  Columba. 

Ionia.  It  lias  been  suggested  that  in  1 Macc.  viii, 
8.  for  tlie  existing  reading  \wnav  t>)v  ’ivcwrjv  tcai 
Mijdiuii',  “India  and  Media,”  should  be  read  r.  ’Ioj- 
viav  Ktii  Mvtriav,  “ Joint  and  My  si  a,”  on  the  ground 
that  to  include  India  and  Media  within  the  domain  of 
Antioclius  111  is  to  contradict  directly  the  voice  of  his- 
tory, which  confines  that  monarch’s  possessions  to  this 
side  the  Taurus  range  (Livy,  J/ist.  xxxvii,  50;  xxxviii, 
38).  See  India.  This  alteration  is  purely  conjectural, 
as  there  is  no  MS.  authority  for  it ; and  it  is  not  easy  to 
see,  supposing  it  to  he  the  correct  reading,  how  the  error 
in  the  text  could  have  arisen.  Michaclis  supposes  that, 
by  a mistake  on  the  part  of  the  translator,  ITS  was 
read  for  "D"2,  and  'in  or  Vi:n  for  and  that  the 

nations  intended  arc  the  Mysians  and  the  ’Everoi  (Ho- 
mer, II  ii,  580)  of  Paphlagonia ; but  this  is  still  more 
improbable  than  the  former  conjecture;  and, besides,  not 
only  was  Paphlagonia  not  within  the  domain  of  Antio- 
cluis,  but  the  Enctians  did  not  at  the  time  exist  (Strabo, 
xii,  Perhaps  the  conjectural  emendation  above 
mentioned  maybe  adopted  on  the  ground  of  its  internal 
probability,  as  the  only  alternative  seems  to  be  to  sup- 
pose gross  geographical  and  historical  ignorance  on  the 
part  ol  the  author.  It  is  followed  by  Luther  (who  puts 
*•  I omen"  in  the  text),  Dtusius,  Grotins,  lloubigant,  etc. 
Adopting  the  reading  Ionia,  the  district  referred  to  is 
that  bordering  on  the  yEgean  Sea  from  Plioeiea  to  Mi- 
letus. I s original  inhabitants  were  Creeks,  but  in  later 
times  a larg  * Jewish  element  was  found  in  the  popula- 
tion (Josephus,  A at.  xvi,  2,  3).  Ionia,  with  its  islands, 
was  celebrated  for  its  twelve,  afterwards  thirteen  cities; 
live  of  which  — Ephesus,  Smyrna,  Miletus,  Chios,  and 
Samos— are  conspicuous  in  the  N.T.  Sec  Asia  Minor. 
Under  the  Homan  dominion  the  name  Ionia  remained, 


but  its  towns  were  distributed  politically  under  othez 
provinces.  Ptolemy  ranks  them  in  Asia  Proper,  while 
Strabo  (xiv,  031),  Pliny  (//.  X.  v,  31),  and  Mela  (i,  17) 
speak  of  Ionia  as  a distinct  territory.  In  the  account 
which  Josephus  gives  (-1  nt.  xvi,  2,  3)  of  the  appeal  of 
the  Jews  in  Ionia  to  Agrippa  for  exemption  from  cer- 
tain oppressions  to  which  they  -were  exposed,  the  an- 
cient name  of  the  country  is  retained.  lie  speaks  of 
tto\v  Tr\i)doQ  ToudaiW  as  inhabiting  its  cities. — Kitto, 
s.  v.  See  also  Javan. 

Ionic  Order.  See  Architecture. 

Ionic  Philosophy.  See  Philosophy  (Greek). 

Iota.  See  Jot. 

Iperen,  Josua  van,  a noted  Dutch  theologian,  was 
born  at  Middelburg,  Feb.  23,  1720.  He  was  descended 
from  an  old  and  respectable  Flemish  family.  His  stud- 
ies, in  which  he  evinced  very  superior  mental  endow- 
ments, w.ere  pursued  first  at  Groningen,  and  afterwards 
at  Leyden,  where  lie  was  permitted  to  enjoy  the  in- 
structions and  friendship  of  the  celebrated  professors  A. 
Schultens  and  T.  Hemsterhnvs.  In  1740  he  was  called 
to  the  pastoral  charge  of  LiUo.  Here  he  labored  with 
zeal  and  fidelity  for  sixteen  years.  In  1752  lie  was 
made  doctor  of  philosophy,  and  in  1766  was  called  to 
Veere,  where  he  remained  ten  years.  Several  of  the 
most  noted  literary,  scientific,  and  poetic  societies  suc- 
cessively elected  him  to  membership.  Zealand  also  ap- 
pointed him  a member  of  the  commission  to  which  was 
intrusted  the  work  of  preparing  a new  poetic  version  of 
the  Book  of  Psalms.  lie  took  an  important  part  in  the 
performance  of  this  duty.  The  work  was  approved  in 
1773,  and  still  continues  in  use  in  the  Reformed  Church 
of  Holland.  It  possesses  a high  degree  of  poetic  merit. 
His  income,  both  at  Lillo  and  Veere,  was  small,  which, 
with  a numerous  family  to  support,  was  the  source  of 
many  trials  and  perplexities.  Accepting  an  appoint- 
ment as  preacher  in  Batavia,  in  the  Dutch  East  India 
possessions,  lie  went  thither  in  1778,  accompanied  by 
his  wife  and  five  children.  He  was  cordially  received, 
and  an  agreeable  field  of  labor  was  opened  to  him.  lie 
labored  here  with  redoubled  zeal  and  fidelity,  but  the 
climate  was  adverse  to  his  health,  and  in  1780,  after 
the  short  space  of  two  years,  he  rested  from  his  labors 
on  earth.  A philological  essay,  dedicated  to  the  Hol- 
land Society  of  Sciences,  and  published  in  1755,  was  re- 
garded as  highly  creditable  to  him  in  a linguistic  point 
of  view,  and  also  as  evincing  a philosophical  spirit.  His 
History  o f Church  Psalmody , published  in  1777,  is  said 
to  exhibit  extensive  historical  knowledge,  combined 
with  good  taste.  lie  seems  to  have  excelled  in  various 
departments  of  knowledge.  See  B.  Glasius,  Godgeleerd 
Nederland,  ii,  190;  II.  Bouman,  Geschiedenis  der  Gel- 
dersehe  Iloogeschool , ii,  190.  (J.  P.W.) 

Iphedei'ah  (Heb.  Yiphdeyali rp^£‘%  set  free  by 
Jehovah ; Sept.  ’Ittpacia),  one  of  the  sons”  of  Shasliak, 
and  a chief  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  resident  at  Jerusa- 
lem (1  Chron.  viii,  25).  B.C.  post  1012  and  ante  588. 

Ir  (Heb.  id.  a city ; Sept.  "Qp  v.  r.  ’Qp«,  Yulg. 
I Hr),  the  father  of  Shuppim  (Shupham)  and  Iliippim 
(Hupham),  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  (1  Chron.  vii,  12); 
probably  identical  with  one  of  the  sons  of  Benjamin 
(Gen.  xlvi,  21),  and  therefore  not  (as  often  supposed) 
the  same  with  Iri  (1  Chron.  vii,  7).  Sec  Benjamin; 
also  comp.  Ir-naiiasii,  Ir-siiemesii,  etc. 

I'ra  (Heb.  Ira',  citizen,  otherwise  watchful; 

Sept  ’fo«C, ’lpd,’Qpai,  El pa'),  the  name  of  three  of  Da- 
vid’s favorite  officers. 

1.  Son  of  Ikkesli,  a Tekoite,  and  one  of  David’s  thirty 
famous  warriors  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  26;  1 Chron.  xi.  28). 
He  was  afterwards  placed  in  command  of  the  sixth  regi- 
ment of  his  troops  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  9).  B.C.  1040-1014. 

2.  A Jethrite,  another  of  David’s  thirty  chief  heroes 
(2  Sam.  xxiii,  38;  1 Chron.  xi,  40).  B.C.  1046. 

3.  A Jairitc  and  priest  (jH2,  A.  V.  “chief  ruler”),  i. 


IKAD 


641 


IRELAND 


e.  royal  chaplain  (2  Sam.  xx,  26).  B.C.  cir.  1022.  As 
he  was  not  of  the  sacerdotal  family,  the  Rabbins  hold 
that  he  was  only  one  of  David’s  cabinet.  See  J.vnt. 

I'rad  (Heb.  I rad",  peril,  runner ; Sept.  PciV- 

Sad,  apparently  by  erroneously  reading  TV  3? : Joseph. 

’1  ctpidijc,  -l nt.  i,  3,  4;  Vulg.  Trad),  one  of  the  antedilu- 
vian patriarchs,  of  the  Cainite  line,  son  of  Enoch  and 
hither  of  Mehujael  (Gen.  iv,  IS).  B.C.  considerably 
post  4045. 

I'ram  (Heb.  Tram',  Df?,  citizen,  otherwise  watch- 
ful; Sept.  ’Hpd/t,  but  ZaQwiv  in  Gen.  xxxvi,  43 ; Vulg. 
Jlirum),  the  last-named  of  the  Edomite  pliylarchs  in 
Mount  Seir,  apparently  contemporary  with  the  Iloritc 
kings  (Gen.  xxxvi,  43;  1 Chron.  i,  54).  B.C.  perhaps  | 
eir.  1618.  See  Idum.ua. 

Ireland,  the  more  western  of  the  two  principal  isl- 
ands of  which  the  kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  I 
is  composed,  between  lat.  51°  25'  and  55°  23'  N.,  and  j 
long.  63  20'  and  10°  20'  W.  Area,  32,513  sq.  miles. 

At  the  time  when  the  island  became  known  to  the 
Greeks  and  the  Romans  its  inhabitants  were  Celts.  Of 
Celtic  origin  is  the  original  name  of  Erin,  which  means  I 
“West  Side,”  and  was  changed  by  the  Greeks  into 
Ierne,  and  by  the  Romans,  who  made  no  endeavors  to  j 
subjugate  the  island,  into  Hibernia.  During  the  whole  ! 
period  of  the  rule  of  the  Romans  over  Brittany  the  his- 
tory of  Ireland  is  enveloped  in  profound  obscurity.  Ac- 
cording  to  later  chronicles,  Ireland  is  said  to  have  had 
in  the  3d  century  five  states,  Momonia,  Connacia,  La- 
genia,  Ultonia,  and  Modia  (Meath).  As  the  people 
were  akin  to  the  Celts  of  Scotland,  Ireland  was,  until 
the  4th  century,  often  called  Great  Scotland  ( Scotia 
major).  Christianity  appears  to  have  been  brought  to  | 
Ireland  at  an  early  time,  perhaps  as  early  as  the  2d  j 
century.  A reference  to  Ireland  is,  in  particular,  found  | 
in  the  words  of  Tertullian,  who  says  that  parts  of  the 
British  Islands  which  had  never  been  visited  by  the 
Romans  were  subject  to  Christ.  In  the  4th  century  a 
number  of  churches  and  schools  are  mentioned,  and  even 
before  the  4th  century  missionaries  went  out  from  Ire- 
land. Coelcstius,  the  friend  and  colaborcr  of  Pelagius,  ! 
was,  according  to  Jerome,  an  Irishman,  and  the  son  of 
Christian  parents.  That  the  Irish  had  received  their 
Christianity  not  from  Rome,  but  from  the  East,  is  shown 
by  their  aversion  against  the  institutions  of  the  Church  I 
of  Rome.  The  first  Roman  missionary,  who  about  430 
was  sent  to  Ireland  by  pope  Coelestius,  was  not  well  re-  j 
ccived,  and  had  soon  to  return  to  Scotland.  Two  years  i 
later  (432),  the  Scotch  monk  St.  Patrick  (q.  v.)  arrived  | 
in  Ireland.  lie  had  spent  his  youth  in  Ireland  as  a j 
slave,  and  had  subsequently  lived  for  some  time  in  Gaul,  i 
With  great  zeal  he  preached  Christianity  throughout 
Ireland,  converted  several,  and  was,  in  particular,  active 
for  the  establishment  of  convents,  so  that  Ireland  was 
ealled  the  island  of  the  Saints,  lie  settled  finally  as 
bishop  of  Armagh,  which  see  thus  received  metropolitan 
power  over  all  Ireland.  According  to  some  writers 
(Wiltsch,  Kirchl.  Statist ik,  ii,  48),  Ireland  was,  however, 
without  its  own  archbishop,  being,  until  the  12th  cen- 
tury, subject  to  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury ; accord- 
ing to  others,  pope  Eugene,  as  early  as  625.  appointed 
four  metropolitan  sees  at  Armagh,  Dublin,  Cashel,  and 
Tuam.  Certain  it  is  that  the  permanent  division  of 
Ireland  into  the  four  ecclesiastical  provinces  of  Armagh, 
Dublin,  Cashel,  and  Tuam  took  place  about  1150  (ac- 
cording to  Moroni  in  1152,  at  the  Council  of  Mellefont; 
according  to  "Wiltsch  in  1155).  From  this  time  the 
primacy  of  Armagh  over  all  the  sees  of  Ireland  was  gen- 
erally recognised.  The  first  bishops  for  a long  time 
maintained  their  independence  with  regaril  to  Rome. 
In  the  7th  century  Rome  endeavored  to  induce  the  Irish 
churches  to  conform  themselves  with  regard  to  the  cel- 
ebration of  Easter  to  the  practice  of  the  Roman  Church, 
instead  of  following,  as  heretofore,  the  rite  of  the  East- 
ern churches.  The  Irish  made  a long  resistance,  until,  in 
717,  the  monks  in  Iona  (q.  v.)  were  on  this  account  either 
IV.— 8 s 


expelled  or  coerced  into  submission.  Most  of  the  Irish 
churches  then  submitted;  yet,  as  late  as  the  12th  cen- 
tury, some  monks  were  found  who  adhered  to  the  East- 
ern practice  of  celebrating  Easter.  In  the  9tli  century 
the  Irish  Church  was  considerably  disturbed  by  the  in- 
vasions of  the  Northmen,  who  destroyed  many  churches, 
and  burned  manuscripts  and  convents.  These  invasions 
were  followed  by  a period  of  anarchy,  during  which  the 
moral  condition  of  the  Irish  clergy  greatly  degenerated. 
The  complaints  of  Rome  at  this  time  referred  chiefly 
to  the  peculiar  ecclesiastical  practices  of  the  Irish — the 
marriage  of  the  clergy,  the  administration  of  baptism 
without  ehrisma,  and  tlie  use  of  their  own  liturgy.  The 
legates  of  the  popes  finally  succeeded  in  obtaining  the 
entire  submission  of  the  Irish  Church  to  the  Church 
of  Rome  about  the  middle  of  the  12th  century,  which 
until  then  is  believed  to  have  been  without  auricular 
confession,  sacrifice  of  the  mass,  and  indulgences,  and  to 
have  celebrated  the  Lord’s  Supper  in  both  kinds.  In 
1155  a bull  of  pope  Hadrian  IV  allowed  king  Henry  II 
of  England  to  subject  Ireland,  the  king,  in  his  turn, 
promising  the  pope  to  protect  the  papal  privileges.  In 
1172,  a synod  at  Cashel  regulated  the  ecclesiastical  af- 
fairs in  accordance  with  the  wishes  of  Rome.  During 
the  time  of  the  following  kings  of  the  house  of  Plantag- 
enet  the  clergy  were  in  a deplorable  condition:  the 
bishops  carried  the  sword,  and  lived  with  their  clergy  in 
open  and  secret  sins.  The  monks,  who  were  very  differ- 
ent from  what  they  had  been  in  former  times,  traversed 
the  country  as  troublesome  beggars,  molesting  the  priests 
as  well  as  the  laity. 

When  Henry  VIII  undertook  to  make  himself  the 
head  of  the  Church  in  his  dominions  he  met  in  Ireland 
with  a violent  opposition.  The  opposition  was  the 
more  popular  as  it  was  intimated  that  henceforth  only 
such  priests  as  understood  the  English  language  would 
be  appointed.  The  Englishman,  George  Brown,  who1 
was  appointed  bishop  of  Dublin,  met,  therefore,  in  spite 
of  his  earnest  and  incessant  labors  in  behalf  of  the  Ref- 
ormation, with  but  little  success.  The  English  liturgy 
was  introduced  in  1551,  under  Edward  VI.  but  the  order 
to  hold  divine  service  in  the  English  language  seems 
not  to  have  been  executed.  The  germs  of  Protestant- 
ism were  wholly  destroyed  under  the  government  of 
Mary.  The  people  were  not  prepared  for  the  Reforma- 
tion, and  the  clergy  were  not  as  corrupt  as  in  many 
other  countries.  Moreover,  there  were  among  the  min- 
isters who  had  been  sent  to  Ireland  a4  Protestant  mis- 
sionaries many  adventurers,  who,  by  disreputable  con- 
duct, strengthened  the  aversion  of  the  people  to  Protes- 
tantism. Under  the  government  of  Elizabeth,  an  order 
was  issued  in  1560  to  introduce  the  general  use  of  the 
English  liturgy  and  of  the  English  language  at  divine 
service.  Some  years  later,  however,  concessions  appear 
to  have  been  made  in  favor  of  the  old  Irish  language. 
In  1602  the  first  translation  of  the  New  Testament  into 
the  Irish  language  by  William  Daniel  appeared,  but  the 
translation  of  the  whole  Bible  was  not  finished  until 
1665.  The  persistent  endeavors  of  the  English  govern- 
ment to  extirpate  the  native  language  established  a 
elose  union  between  the  Irish  nationality  and  the 
Church  of  Rome.  The  excitement  against  England 
greatly  increased  when  Elizabeth  showed  a design  to 
confiscate  the  whole  property  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  in  behalf  of  the  Protestant  clergy.  A number 
of  revolts  consequently  occurred,  which  found  a vigor- 
ous support  on  the  pari,  of  the  pope  and  the  Spanish 
court.  A plan  submitted  by  the  English  lord  lieuten- 
ant, Sir  John  Perrot,  fur  thoroughly  Anglicizing  Ireland, 
was  rejected  as  being  too  expensive,  and  thus  England 
was  compelled  to  maintain  at  a heavy  expense  a large 
military  force  in  Ireland.  In  1505  the  chieftain  Hugh 
O’Niele,  whom  Elizabeth  had  made  earl  of  Tyrone, 
placed  himself  at  the  head  of  a powerful  insurrection, 
which  was  mainlv  supported  by  Irish  soldiers  who  had 
returned  from  military  servi  ?e  in  foreign  countries.  The 
earl  of  Essex,  with  an  aimy  of  22,000  men,  was  unable 


IRELAND 


042 


IRELAND 


to  quell  the  insurrection;  but  his  successor, lord  Mount- 
jo  v,  was  more  successful,  and  pacified  the  whole  island. 
In*  1601  the  Irish  again  rose,  aided  by  Spanish  troops 
under  Aquila  and  Ocampo;  but  the  combined  forces  of 
Ocampo  and  O’Xielc  were,  on  Dec.  24, 1601,  totally  de- 
feated by  Mount  joy  near  Kinsale.  The  Spaniards  left 
Ireland  in  January,  1602,  and  O’Xiele  made  peace  with 
the  English.  At’ the  death  of  Elizabeth  the  whole  of 
Ireland  was  under  English  rule.  As  a large  number  of 
Irish  had  perished  in  this  conflict,  600,000  acres  of  land 
were  confiscated  in  favor  of  English  colonists.  In  view 
of  the  close  alliance  between  the  Church  of  Home  and 
the  native  Irish,  the  government  of  Elizabeth  proceeded 
with  equal  severity  against  both:  the  public  exercise 
of  the  Catholic  religion  was  totally  forbidden,  and  every 
inhabitant,  under  penalty  of  twelve  pence,  was  com- 
manded to  be  present  at  divine  service  celebrated  in  the 
Anglican  churches.  Decrees  like  this  provoked  a gen- 
eral dissatisfaction,  which  was  carefully  fomented  by 
the  Jesuits  of  the  University  of  Douav.  in  the  Xether- 
lands  (now  belonging  to  France).  On  the  accession  of 
James  I to  the  English  throne  the  papal  party  was  very 
powerful : it  expelled  the  Protestant  ministers  from 
many  places,  and  re-established  the  service  of  the  Cath- 
olic Church.  These  attempts  were  forcibly  suppressed, 
and  new  insurrections  consequently  were  caused,  all  of 
which  proved  of  short  duration.  In  order  to  break  the 
power  of  the  Catholic  chieftains,  the  government  of 
James,  following  the  example  of  queen  Elizabeth,  was 
especially  intent  upon  wresting  from  them  their  landed 
property.  Whoever  was  unable  to  prove,  by  means  of 
a bill  of  feoffment,  bis  title  to  bis  property,  lost  it. 
Thus,  in  the  northern  part  of  Ireland  alone,  about 
#00,000  acres  were  confiscated  by  the  crown,  which  sold 
them  to  English  speculators  and  to  Scottish  colonists, 
who  founded  the  town  of  Londonderry.  From  this 
time  dates  the  predominance  of  Protestantism  in  Ulster, 
the  northern  province  of  Ireland.  At  the  same  time, 
however,  many  most  beneficent  measures  were  taken 
for  improving  the  social  condition  of  the  people.  The 
English  law  supplanted  the  previous  lawlessness;  all  i 
inhabitants  were  declared  to  be  free  citizens,  and  the  ] 
country  was  divided  into  parishes.  In  1615  an  Irish 
National  Parliament  was  called  to  sanction  these  meas- 
ures. In  consequence  of  the  interference  of  the  govern- 
ment, there  were  among  the  226  members  of  the  lower 
house  only  101  Catholics,  while  the  upper  house,  con- 
sisting of  50  members,  consisted  almost  entirely  of  Prot- 
estants. The  Catholics  were,  moreover,  excluded  from 
the  public  offices,  because  most  of  them  refused  (hence 
their  name  “ Heeusants”)  to  take  the  oath  of  supremacy, 
which  designated  the  king  of  England  as  head  of  the 
Church.  At  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  Charles  I 
the  Anglican  Church  was  nevertheless  in  a deplorable 
condition.  Many  churches  were  destroyed,  the  bishop- 
rics impoverished,  the  clergy  ignorant,  indolent,  and 
impoverished.  A convocation  called  in  1634  adopted 
the  39  articles  of  the  Church  of  England,  and  retained 
the  104  articles  of  the  Irish  Church  which  had  been 
adopted  by  the  Parliament  of  1615.  The  constitution 
of  the  Church  of  Ireland  was  defined  in  100  canons, 
which  were  of  a somewhat  more  liberal  character  than 
the  1 11  canons  of  the  Church  of  England.  The  Homan 
Catholics  were  generally  allowed  to  celebrate'  divine 
service  in  private  houses,  and  many  priests  who  had 
fled  returned.  At  the  same  time  the  Irish  nationality 
continued  to  he  persecuted,  and  a number  of  new  con- 
fiscations were  added  to  the  old  ones.  ( )n  < )ct.  23, 1644, 
a bloody  insurrection  broke  out  under  the  leadership  of 
Poger  More,  O’Neale,  and  lord  Maguire,  the  descendants 
of  former  chieftains.  Within  a few  days  from  40,000  to 
50,000  Protestant  Englishmen  were  murdered  (accord- 
ing to  other  accounts  the  number  of  killed  amounted  to 
only  6000'),  and  an  equally  large  number  is  said  to  have 
perished  while  trying  to  tlee.  The  enraged  Parliament 
ordered  the  confiscation  of  two  and  a half  million  acres 
of  land,  but,  in  consequence  of  its  conflict  with  the  king, 


was  unable  to  achieve  anything.  The  king’s  lieuten- 
ant, the  marquis  of  Ormond,  concluded  peace  with  the 
Catholic  Irish,  who  received  the  promise  of  religious 
toleration,  and,  in  return,  furnished  to  the  king  an  army 
against  the  Parliament.  When,  after  the  execution  of 
the  king,  Ormond  tried  to  gain  the  support  of  the  Cath- 
olic Irish  for  the  prince  of  Wales  as  king  Charles  II,  the 
English  Parliament  sent  an  army  of  10,000  men  under 
Cromwell  to  Ireland,  which  conquered  the  whole  island. 
The  Catholics  were  punished  with  the  utmost  severity; 
all  their  landed  property,  about  5,000,000  acres,  confisca- 
ted ; about  20,000  Irish  sold  as  slaves  to  the  West  Indies, 
and  40,000  others  compelled  to  flee  to  Spain  and  France. 
The  celebration  of  Catholic  service  was  forbidden,  and 
all  Catholic  priests  ordered  to  quit  Ireland  within  twenty 
days.  The  restoration  of  royalty  caused  no  important 
changes  in  the  condition  of  the  people.  Religious  per- 
secution ceased  by  order  of  Charles  II,  but  the  Protes- 
tants remained  in  possession  of  the  confiscated  property. 
The  accession  of  the  Catholic  James  II  filled  the  Irish 
Catholics  with  the  greatest  hopes,  and  when,  after  his 
expulsion,  he  landed,  at  the  beginning  of  1689,  with  a 
French  army  of  5000  men,  he  was  received  b}r  the  Catli- 
! olics  with  enthusiasm.  His  army  in  a short  time  num- 
bered more  than  38,000  men,  and  he  succeeded  in  cap- 
turing all  the  fortified  places  except  Enniskillen  and 
Londonderry.  Large  numbers  of  Protestants  hail  to 
leave  the  country  because  their  lives  and  property  were 
no  longer  secure.  Soon,  however,  the  victories  of  Wil- 
liam III  over  the  Catholic  party  on  the  Boyne  Liver, 
near  Drogheda  (July  1,  1690),  and  near  Aughrim  (July 
I 13,  1691),  completed  the  subjugation  of  Ireland.  The 
peace  concluded  with  the  British  general  Ginkel  at  the 
| surrender  of  Limerick  promised  to  the  Irish  the  free  ex- 
ercise of  their  religion  as  they  had  possessed  it  under 
Charles  II.  While  Janies  II  had  deprived  2400  Prot- 
estant landowners  of  their  estates,  now  more  than  12,000 
Irishmen  who  had  fought  for  James  voluntarily  went 
into  exile.  A resolution  of  the  English  Parliament  or- 
dered a new  confiscation  of  1,060,000  acres,  which  were 
distributed  among  the  Protestants,  who  began  to  organ- 
ize themselves  into  ( )range  societies.  A number  of  rig- 
orous and  cruel  penal  laws  were  passed  in  order  to  extir- 
pate the  national  spirit  and  the  Homan  Catholic  Church. 
Bishops  and  other  high  dignitaries  were  exiled;  the 
priests  were  confined  to  their  own  counties;  all  instruc- 
tion in  the  Catholic  religion  and  its  public  exercise  were 
forbidden ; the  Catholic  Irishmen  were  not  allowed  to 
own  horses  of  higher  value  than  £b,  or  to  marry  Prot- 
est ants,  and  were  excluded  from  all  public  offices.  The 
irritation  produced  by  these  laws  was  still  increased 
when  the  English  Parliament,  by  imposing  high  duties 
on  the  exports  from  Ireland,  dealt  a heavy  blow  to  the 
commerce  and  prosperity  of  the  island,  and  when,  in 
1727,  it  deprived  the  Catholic  Irish  of  the  franchisc- 
Thcse  harsh  measures  soon  led  to  the  establishment  of 
several  secret  societies,  as  the  “ Defenders,”  the  “ White- 
bovs”  (about  1760),  so  called  from  the  white  shirts  which 
they  threw  over  their  other  clothes  when  at  night  they 
attacked  unpopular  landlords  anti  their  officers ; and 
the  “ Hearts  of  Oak”  (about  1763).  During  the  Amer- 
ican War  of  Independence,  the  Irish,  under  the  pretext 
that  the  French  might  avail  themselves  of  the  with- 
drawal of  most  of  the  British  troops  to  invade  their  isl- 
and, formed  a volunteer  army,  which,  in  the  course  of 
two  years,  increased  to  50,000  men.  Monster  petitions, 
numerously  signed  hv  Irish  Protestants  also,  demanded 
the  abolition  of  the  penal  laws,  the  restoration  of  the 
Irish  Parliament,  reform  of  the  rotten  electoral  law,  and 
relief  of  Irish  commerce.  Fear  of  a general  insurrection 
induced  the  Parliament  to  mitigate  the  penal  laws,  and 
to  allow  the  Catholics  to  establish  schools,  to  own  land- 
ed property,  and  to  exercise  their  religious  worship. 
The  onerous  tithes  which  the  Catholics  had  to  pay  to 
the  Protestant  clergy  soon  led  to  the  establishment  of 
another  secret  society,  the  “ Bight  Boys,”  who,  by  means 
of  oaths  and  threatened  vengeance,  endeavored  to  in- 


IRELAND 


643 


IRELAND 


timidate  the  Catholics  from  paying  tithes.  A still 
more  dangerous  movement  was  called  forth  by  the  out- 
break of  the  French  Revolution.  The  league  of  “ United 
Irishmen,”  which,  in  November,  1791,  was  formed  at 
Dublin  by  former  members  of  the  volunteer  army,  en- 
deavored, iu  union  with  the  French  convent,  to  make 
Ireland  an  independent  republic.  When  the  Catholics, 
at  a meeting  in  Dublin  in  1792,  demanded  equal  rights 
with  Protestants,  the  British  Parliament  abolished  sev- 
eral penal  laws,  and  gave  to  the  Catholics  the  right  of 
becoming  attornevs-at-law  and  of  marrying  Protestants. 

In  1793  the  law  was  abolished  which  fined  the  Catholics 
for  neglecting  to  attend  the  Protestant  Church  on  Sun- 
day; at  the  same  time  they  were  admitted  to  several  j 
lower  public  offices,  and  received  the  right  to  vote.  The  ' 
United  Irishmen,  nevertheless,  assumed  a threatening 
attitude,  and  a French  corps  of  25,000  men,  under  gen-  i 
eral  Iloche,  landed  in  Ireland.  The  latter  had,  how- 
ever, to  leave  again  in  December,  179G,  and  a new  in- 
surrection, which  broke  out  in  May,  1798,  was  unsuccess- 
ful. In  1800  the  Irish  Parliament,  bribed  by  the  Eng- 
lish Parliament,  consented  to  the  legislative  union  of 
Ireland  with  Great  Britain,  and  in  the  next  year  the 
first  united  Parliament  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  as- 
sembled. The  union  of  the  two  parliaments  involved 
the  union  of  the  Anglican  churches  in  the  two  coun- 
tries, which  now  received  the  name  of  the  United  Church 
of  England  and  Ireland.  Several  further  concessions 
were,  however,  about  this  time  made  to  the  Catholics. 
In  1795  a Catholic  theological  seminary  had  been  estab- 
lished at  Mavnooth,  as  the  British  government  hoped 
that  if  the  Catholic  priests  were  educated  upon  British 
territory  they  would  be  less  hostile  to  British  rule.  The 
rules  against  convents  were  also  moderated,  and  at  the 
close  of  the  18th  century  the  Dominican  order  alone  had 
in  Ireland  about  forty-three  convents.  In  1805  the 
“Catholic  Association”  was  formed  to  secure  the  com- 
plete political  emancipation  of  the  Catholics.  It  soon 
became  the  centre  of  all  political  movements  in  Ireland, 
and,  as  the  Orange  lodges  began  likewise  to  be  revived, 
frequent  disturbances  between  Catholics  and  Protestants 
took  place.  In  1825  both  associations  were  dissolved 
by  the  British  government ; but  the  Catholic  association 
was  at  once  reorganized  by  O’Connell,  and  gained  con- 
siderable influence  upon  the  elections.  The  unceasing  ! 
agitation  of  O’Connell,  aided  by  the  moral  support  of 
the  Liberal  party  in  England,  finally  succeeded  in  in-  j 
during  the  British  ministry  to  lay  before  Parliament  a 
bill  of  emancipation,  which  passed  after  violent  debates,  | 
and  was  signed  by  George  IV  on  April  13,  1829.  The  j 
oath  which  the  members  of  Parliament  had  to  take  was 
so  changed  that  Catholics  also  could  take  it.  At  the  | 
same  time  they  obtained  access  to  all  public  offices,  with 
the  only  exception  of  that  of  lord  chancellor.  This  vic- 
tory encouraged  the  Catholics  to  demand  further  con- 
cessions; in  particular,  the  abolition  of  the  tithes  paid 
to  the  Protestant  clergy,  and  the  repeal  of  the  legisla- 
tive union  between  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  To  that 
end  O’Connell  organized  the  “Repeal  Association,”  to 
which  the  ministry  of  earl  Grey  opposed  in  1833  the 
Irish  Coercion  Bill,  which  authorized  the  lord  lieutenant 
of  Ireland  to  forbid  mass  meetings  and  to  proclaim  mar- 
tial law.  When  the  liberal  ministry  of  Melbourne  re- 
scinded the  Coercion  Bill  and  began  to  pursue  a concil- 
iatory policy  towards  Ireland,  O’Connell  dissolved  the 
Repeal  Association.  Earl  Mulgrave,  since  1835  lord 
lieutenant  of  Ireland,  filled  the  most  important  offices 
with  Catholics,  and  in  183(5  suppressed  all  the  Orange 
lodges.  In  1838  the  British  Parliament  adopted  the 
Tithe  Bill.  When,  in  August,  1841,  the  government 
fell  again  into  the  hands  of  the  Tories,  O'Connell  renew- 
ed the  repeal  agitation  so  violently  that  in  1843  he  was 
arrested  and  sentenced  to  one  year’s  imprisonment,  a 
sentence  which  was,  however,  annulled  by  the  Court  of 
Peers.  The  repeal  agitation  ended  suddenly  by  the 
death  of  O’Connell  in  1847,  because  no  competent  suc- 
cessor in  the  leadership  of  the  party  could  be  found.  It 


was  followed  by  the  ascendency  of  the  more  radical 
Young  Ireland  party,  which  did  not,  like  O'Connell, 
court  an  alliance  with  the  Catholic  Church,  but  preferred 
to  it  an  outspoken  sympathy  with  the  radical  Republic- 
ans of  France,  and  is  on  that  account  not  so  much  inter- 
woven with  the  ecclesiastical  history  of  Ireland  as  the 
movements  of  O'Connell. 

The  ultramontane  doctrines  taught  in  the  seminary 
of  Mavnooth  called  forth  an  agitation  in  Protestant 
England  for  a repeal  of  the  annual  subsidy  which  that 
seminary  received  from  the  British  government.  New 
offence  was  given  to  the  bishops  and  the  ultramontane 
party  by  the  establishment  of  three  undenominational 
“Queen's  Colleges.”  The  bishops  unanimously  de- 
nounced the  colleges  as  “godless,”  and  warned  all  Cath- 
olic parents  against  them ; they  could,  however,  not 
prevent  that  ever  from  the  beginning  the  majority  of 
the  students  in  these  colleges  were  children  of  Catholic 
parents.  The  disregard  of  the  episcopal  orders  showed 
a decline  of  priestly  influence  upon  a considerable  por- 
tion of  the  Catholic  Irishmen.  This  decline  of  priestly 
influence  became  still  more  apparent  when,  during  the 
civil  war  in  the  United  States,  the  Fenian  organization 
was  formed  for  the  express  purpose  of  making  Ireland 
an  independent  republic.  As  it  was  chiefly  directed 
against  English  rule  in  Ireland,  the  new  organization, 
like  all  its  predecessors,  had  to  direct  its  attacks  promi- 
nently against  the  Established  Church  of  Ireland,  and 
thus  appeared  to  have  to  some  extent  an  anti-Protes- 
tant character;  but,  being  a secret  society,  it  was  ex- 
communicated by  the  pope,  and  denounced  by  all  the 
Irish  bishops.  The  general  sympathy  with  which  it 
nevertheless  met  among  the  Catholic  Irishmen  both  of 
Ireland  and  the  United  States  is  therefore  a clear  proof 
that  the  Catholics  of  Ireland  no  longer  obey  the  orders 
of  their  bishops  as  blindly  as  formerly. 

The  Established  Church  of  Ireland,  regarding  itself 
! as  the  legitimate  successor  of  the  medieval  Catholic 
j Church,  and  taking  possession  of  all  her  dioceses,  par- 
ishes, and  Church  property,  retained  for  a long  time  the 
same  diocesan  and  parochial  divisions  as  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church.  As  late  as  1833,  the  Church,  notwith- 
standing its  small  membership,  had  4 archbishoprics  and 
18 bishoprics:  namely,  Armagh, with  5 bishoprics;  Dub- 
lin, with  4 bishoprics;  Tuam,  with  4 bishoprics;  and 
Cashel,  with  5 bishoprics.  The  income  of  these  22  arch- 
bishops and  bishops  was  estimated  at  from  £130,000  to 
£185,000.  In  1833  the  first  decisive  step  was  taken  to- 
wards reducing  the  odious  prerogatives  of  the  Estab- 
lished Church.  The  number  of  archbishoprics  was  re- 
duced to  two,  Armagh  and  Dublin,  and  the  number  of 
bishoprics  to  ten,  five  for  each  archbishopric.  As  the 
income  was  very  unequally  distributed,  all  the  benefices 
yielding  more  than  £200  had  a tax  of  from  ten  to  fifteen 
per  cent,  imposed  upon  them,  the  proceeds  of  which 
were  employed  for  church  building,  raising  the  income 
of  poor  clergymen,  and  other  ecclesiastical  purposes.  In 
18(58,  the  English  House  of  Commons,  on  motion  of  Mr. 
Gladstone,  resolved  to  disestablish  the  Church  of  Ire- 
land. The  proposition  was  rejected  by  the  House  of 
Lords.  Public  opinion  expressed  itself,  however,  so 
strongly  against  the  continuance  of  the  privileges  of  the 
Irish  Church,  that  the  report  of  the  royal  commissioners 
on  the  revenues  and  condition  of  the  Church  of  Ireland 
(dated  July  27,  18(58)  recommended  important  reduc- 
tions as  to  the  benefices  of  the  Irish  Church.  This  re- 
port, a volume  of  more  than  GOO  pages,  is  replete  with 
| interesting  information,  and  is  one  of  the  best  sources 
of  information  concerning  the  condition  of  the  Church 
at  this  time.  It  states  that  the  total  revenue  of  the 
Church  from  all  sources  wras  at  this  time  £G  13,984 ; 
1319  benefices  had  a Church  population  of  over  forty 
persons,  and  extending  to  5000  and  upwards.  Four 
bishoprics  were  suggested  for  abolition,  namely,  Meath, 
Killaloe,  Cashel,  and  Kilmorc.  The  commissioners  were 
in  favor  of  leaving  one  archbishopric  only,  that  of  Ar- 
magh. All  bishops  were  to  receive  £3000  a year  in* 


644 


IRELAND 


IRELAND 

come,  and  an  additional  ,£500  when  attending  Parlia- 
ment. The  primate  was  to  get  £G0O0,  and  the  archbish- 
op of  Dublin,  if  continued,  £5000.  The  abolition  of  all  ca- 
thedrals and  deaneries  except  eight  was  recommended. 
With  a view  to  rearrangement  of  benefices,  it  was  pro- 
posed that  ecclesiastical  commissioners  should  have  ex- 
tended powers  to  suppress  or  unite  benefices.  All  benefices 
not  having  a Protestant  population  of  forty  were  to  be 
suppressed.  The  estates  of  all  capitular  bodies  and  of 
the  bishoprics  abolished  were  to  be  vested  in  ecclesias- 
tical commissioners,  and  the  surplus  of  all  property  vest- 
ed in  them  to  be  applicable  at  their  discretion  to  aug- 
mentation of  benefices.  The  ecclesiastical  commission 
was  to  be  modified  by  the  introduction  of  three  unpaid 
laymen  and  two  paid  commissioners,  one  appointed  by 
the  crown,  the  other  by  the  primate.  The  management 
of  all  lands  was  to  be  taken  out  of  the  hands  of  eccle- 
siastical persons  and  placed  in  those  of  the  ecclesiastical 
commissioners.  Mr.  Gladstone  having  become,  towards 
the  close  of  the  year  18G8,  prime  minister,  introduced  in 
March,  1869,  a new  bill  for  the  disestablishment  and 
disendowment  of  the  Irish  Church.  It  passed  a second 
reading  in  the  House  of  Commons,  after  a long  and  ex- 
cited debate,  by  a vote  of  368  to  250,  showing  a major- 
ity in  favor  of  the  passage  of  118;  and  in  the  House  of 
Lords  by  a majority  of  33  in  a house  of  300  members. 
The  amendments  adopted  bv  the  House  of  Lords  were 
nearly  all  rejected  by  the  Commons,  and  on  July  26  it 
received  the  royal  assent.  The  bill,  which  contains 
sixty  clauses,  is  entitled  “A  bill  to  put  an  end  to  the  es- 
tablishment of  the  Church  of  Ireland,  and  to  make  pro- 
vision in  respect  to  the  temporalities  thereof,  and  in 
respect  to  the  royal  College  of  Mavnooth.”  The  dises- 
tablishment was  to  be  total,  but  was  not  to  ta^e  place 
until  Jan.  1, 1870,  when  the  ecclesiastical  courts  were  to 
be  abolished,  the  ecclesiastical  laws  to  cease  to  have 
any  authority,  the  bishops  to  be  no  longer  peers  of  Par- 
liament, and  all  ecclesiastical  corporations  in  the  coun- 
try to  be  dissolved.  The  disendowment  was  technically 
and  legally  to  be  total  and  immediate.  Provision  was 
made  for  winding  up  the  ecclesiastical  commission,  and 
the  constitution  of  a new  commission,  composed  of  ten 
members,  in  which  the  whole  property  of  the  Irish 
Church  was  to  be  vested  from  the  day  the  measure  re- 
ceived the  royal  assent.  A distinction  was  made  be- 
tween public  endowments  (valued  at  £15,500,000).  in- 
cluding everything  in  the  nature  of  a state  grant  or 
revenue,  which  were  to  be  resumed  by  the  state,  and 
private  endowments  (valued  at  £500,000),  which  were 
defined  as  money  contributed  from  private  sources  since 
1600,  which  were  to  be  restored  to  the  disestablished 
Church.  Provision  was  made  for  compensation  to  vest- 
ed interests,  including  those  connected  with  Maynooth 
College  and  the  Presbyterians  who  were  in  receipt  of 
the  ref/ lit  hi  donum.  Among  these  interests,  the  largest 
in  the  aggregate  were  those  of  incumbents,  to  each  of 
whom  was  secured  during  his  life,  provided  he  contin- 
ued to  discharge  the  duties  of  his  benefice,  the  amount 
to  which  he  was  entitled,  deducting  the  amount  he 
might  have  paid  for  curates,  or  the  interest  might,  un- 
der certain  circumstances,  be  commuted,  upon  li'is  appli- 
cation for  a life  annuity.  Other  personal  interests  pro- 
vided lor  were  those  of  curates,  permanent  and  tempo- 
rary, and  lav  compensations,  including  claims  of  parish 
clerks  and  sextons.  The  amount  of  the  Maynooth  grant 
and  the  reffinm  donum  was  to  he  valued’  at  fourteen 
years’  purchase,  and  a capital  sum  etpial  to  it  handed 
over  to  the  respective  representatives  of  the  Presbyte- 
rians and  of  the  Roman  Catholics.  The  aggregate  of 
the  payments  "-end  1 amount  to  about  £8,00(7,1)00,  leav- 
ing about  £7,500,000,  placing  an  annual  income  of  about 
£30,000,000  at  the  disposal  of  Parliament.  This  was  to 
be  appropriated  “mainly  to  the  relief  of  unavoidable 
calamity  and  suffering,  lait  in  such  a way  as  not  to  in- 
terfere with  the  obligation  imposed  upon  property  bv 
the  poor  laws."  A constitution  for  the  disestablished 
Church  was  adopted  by  a General  Convention,  held  in 


Dublin  in  1870.  The  Church  will  be  governed  by  a 
General  Synod,  consisting  of  a House  of  Bishops  and  a 
House  of  Clerical  and  Lay  Delegates.  The  House  of 
Bishops  has  the  right  of  veto,  and  their  veto  prevails 
also  at  the  next  synod ; but  seven  bishops  must  agree 
upon  a veto  to  make  it  valid.  The  bishops  will  be 
elected  by  the  Diocesan  Convention,  but  the  House  of 
Bishops  will  in  all  cases  be  tlie  court  of  selection  when 
the  Diocesan  Synod  does  not  elect  by  a majority  of  two 
thirds  of  each  order  a clergyman  to  fill  the  vacant  see. 
The  primate  (archbishop  of  Armagh)  shall  be  elected 
by  the  Bench  of  Bishops  out  of  their  own  number.  The 
property  of  the  Church  is  to  be  vested  in  a “ Representa- 
tive Church  Body,”  which  is  to  be  permanent.  It  is  to 
be  composed  of  three  classes : the  ex-officio,  or  arch- 
bishops and  bishops;  the  elected  members,  who  are  to 
consist  of  one  clerical  and  two  lay  representatives  for 
each  diocese;  and  the  coopted  members,  who  are  to  con- 
sist of  persons  etpial  in  number  to  such  dioceses,  and  to 
be  elected  by  the  ex-officio  and  representative  members. 

I The  elected  members  are  to  retire  in  the  proportion  of 
one  third  by  rotation.  The  Convention  also  adopted  a 
resolution  against  the  introduction  of  the  ritualistic  prac- 
tices which  have  crept  into  the  Established  Church  of 
England. 

The  following  table  shows  the  population  connected 
with  the  Anglican  Church,  according  to  the  official  cen- 
sus of  18G1,  in  each  of  the  dioceses,  together  with  the 
number  of  Roman  Catholics,  and  the  population  of  other 
religions  denominations  in  each,  as  well  as  the  number 
of  benefices  and  curates.  The  dioceses,  which  are  now 
united  under  one  bishop  (such  as  Armagh  and  Clogher) 
are  given  separately ; 


Diocese. 


1.1  Armagh 

! Clogher 

2. 1 Down 

Couuor 

jDromore 

3.lKilmore 

Elphin  

Ardagli 

4.  Meath 

5.  Tuam 

Killala 


Achonry.. 


1 6.  Derry. 

Raphoe 

Armagh 

Dublin 1 

Glandelach . . / 

Kildare 

Ossory 

Perns 

Leigliliu 

Cashel 

Emly 

Waterford 

Lismore 

Cork 

Cloyne 

Ross 

Killaloe 

Kilfenora 

Clonfert 

Kilmacduagh.. 

Limerick 

Ardfert \ 

Aghadoe j 

Dublin 

Joint  total 


Population — Census  1861. 

1870. 

Irish 

1 Homan 

I Other  Co  m- 

Bene- 

Cu- 

Church. 

1 Catholics. 

| muuilies. 

fices. 

rates. 

S5,5S3 

234,651 

; 66,026 

10S 

36 

65,195 

170,998  26,379 

77 

£5 

23,S6S 

46,451 

SS,G24) 

80,125 

103,245:202,657/ 

12b 

53 

44,474 

66,136 

61,605 

28 

10 

31,046 

169,SS6 

8,1S2 

56 

26 

10,506 

189,508 

1,S65 

41 

7 

11,044 

124,185 

1.069 

31 

19 

16,289 

235,136 

1,929 

111 

23 

9,041 

302,367 

1,553 

55 

17 

4,724 

SI, 337 

1,014 

16 

7 

3,392 

105,203 

275 

12 

3 

43,738 

164,475 

| 85,03S 

70 

49 

22,213| 

126,991 

1 20,000 

42 

15 

456,838 

2,120,569,566,216 

772 

300 

100,267 

396,916 

16,146 

140 

81 

12,499 

84,590 

1,280 

44 

14 

S,25Sj 

131,248 

5S0 

67 

15 

14,3S3 

135,050 

1,335 

64 

15 

13,022 

111,006 

S61 

38 

14 

4,721| 

114, S3! 

459) 

1,414 

60,707 

75/ 

75 

36 

2,943 

39,472 

1,0911 

4,775 

139,769 

721/ 

77 

34 

26,736' 

206,918 

5,559 

75 

23 

11,746 

202,294 

1,126 

90 

17 

4,746 

64,540 

617 

24 

S 

12,700| 

211,098 

1,298) 

6S 

14 

2511 

22,789 

2/ 

7 

1 

2,5211 

61,183 

439/ 

434 

24,333 

31) 

17 

6 

8,679, 

162,324 

l,619t 

126 

2s 

6,424  j 

215,028 

4S7i 

236,519  2,384,696 

33.726 

S71 

306 

,693,357  ■ 

4.505,265  599,942 

1643  | 606 

1 he  Roman  Catholic  Church  in  Ireland  is  governed 
by  four  archbishops,  whose  secs  arc  in  Armagh,  Dublin, 
Cashel,  and  Tuam,  and  twenty-four  bishops;  they  are 
all  nominated  by  the  pope,  generally  out  of  a list  of 
three  names  submitted  to  him  by  the  parish  priests  and 
chapter  of  the  vacant  diocese,  and  reported  on  by  the 
archbishops  and  bishops  of  the  province.  In  case  of 
expected  incapacity  from  age  or  infirmity,  the  bishop 
names  a coadjutor,  who  is  usually  confirmed  by  the  pope, 
with  the  right  ol  succession.  In  many  of  the  dioceses 


IRELAND 


645 


IRELAND 


the  brothers  of  the  Christian  Schools  have  a large  num- 
ber of  institutions. 

The  following  is  a statistical  summary  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Chureh  in  Ireland  in  1809 : 


M eatli 

Clopher 

Rapboe 

| Down  anil  Connor... 

Kilmore 

Ardagh 

Dromore 


Armagh  Province.. 

| Dublin 

Kildare  and  Leiglilin. 


Dublin  Province... 


, Kill  aloe 

Kerry 

Limerick 

I Wnterf’d  and  Lisniore 
jCloyne 

Cashel  Province., 


Xuam  Province . . 
Ireland 


e-  | o'  t 
1 

' ps1 


a chapter  and  cathedral  corps  have  been  revived,  the 
dean  being  appointed  by  the  cardinal  protector  at  Rome. 

The  diocesan  dignitaries  are  the  vicars-general,  of  whom 
there  are  one,  two,  or  three,  according  to  the  extent  of 
the  diocese,  who  have  special  disciplinary  and  other 
powers;  viears-forane,  whose  functions  are  more  re- 
stricted ; the  archdeacon,  and  the  parish  priests  or  in- 
cumbents. All  of  these,  as  well  as  the  curates,  are  ap- 
pointed by  the  bishop.  The  whole  of  the  clergy  are 
supported  solely  by  the  voluntary  contributions  of  their 
flocks.  The  episcopal  emoluments  arise  from  the  men- 
sal  parish  or  two,  the  incumbency  of  which  is  retained 
by  the  bishop,  from  marriage  licenses,  aiul  from  the  ca- 
theilmticum,  an  annual  sum,  varying  from  £2  to  £10, 
paid  by  each  incumbent  in  the  diocese.  The  2425  civil 
parishes  in  Ireland  are  amalgamated  into  1073  ecclesi- 
astical parishes  or  unions,  being  445  livings  less  than  in 
the  Anglican  CInireh.  The  incomes  of  the  parish  priests 
arise  from  fees  on  marriages,  baptisms,  and  deaths,  on 
Easter  and  Christmas  dues,  and  from  incidental  volun- 
tary contributions  either  in  money  or  labor.  The  num- 
ber of  priests  in  Ireland  in  1853  was  2291  (of  whom  1222 
were  educated  at  Maynooth  College);  in  18G9  it  was 
about  3200.  The  curates  of  the  parish  priests  form  more 
than  a half  of  the  whole  clerical  strength  ; aiul  scattered 
through  the  cities  and  towns  are  70  or  80  communities 
of  priests  of  various  religious  orders  or  rules,  lienee  call- 
ed Reyulurs , who  minister  in  their  own  churches,  and, 
though  without  parochial  jurisdiction,  greatly  aid  the 
secular  clergy.  All  the  places  of  public  worship  are 
built  by  subscriptions,  legacies,  and  collections.  There  Eiphi 
are  numerous  monasteries  and  convents;  the  latter  are  I Kl™“^uaeh and Kl1- 
supported  partly  by  sums,  usually  from  £300  to  £500,  ;Oai,way. 
paid  by  those  who  take  the  vows  in  them,  and  partly  1 1 " a ' 
by  the  fees  for  the  education  of  the  daughters  of  re- 
spectable Roman  Catholics.  Various  communities  of 
monks  and  nuns  also  devote  themselves  to  the  gratui-  The  first  Presbytery  in  Ireland  was  formed  at  Car- 
tons education  of  the  children  of  the  poor.  Candidates  riekfergus  in  1642,  and  gave  rise  to  the  Synod  of  Ulster. 
for  the  priesthood,  formerly  under  the  necessity  of  oh-  j The  Presbyterian  Synod  of  Munster  was  formed  about 
taming  their  education  in  continental  colleges,  are  now  | 1GG0.  The  Presbytery  of  Antrim  separated  from  the 
educated  at  home.  The  principal  clerical  college  is  j Synod  of  Ulster  in  1727,  and  the  Remonstrant  Synod  in 
h,  which  was  founded  in  1795  as  Royal  ! 1829.  A num' 


| Total  Priests. 

1 Churches  and 

Chapels. 

Houses  of  Re- 
ligious Orders, 
or  Communi- 

| 

£ 

g 

148 

128 

6 

2 

6 

ns 

147 

3 

4 

10 

74 

3 

3 

89 

83 

3 

3 

61 

44 

2 

11(3 

95 

1 

’i 

4 

90 

94 

•• 

i 

3 

_38 

39 

•• 

i 

4 

nil 

J76 

11 

15 

“isf 

1 427 

165 

19 

13 

47 

( 153 

120 

3 

4 

14 

! 116 

100 

4 

2 

5 

. 132 

93 

4 

4 

10 

|~478 

Vo” 

”23~ 

76 

t 112 

86 

3 

2 

7 

> 115 

77 

7 

2 

10 

! 127 

143 

1 

2 

5 

1 115 

94 

2 

5 

13 

i 135 

99 

5 

5 

10 

i 138 

76 

5 

7 

10 

, 127 

103 

5 

12 

24 

22 

2 

5 ls93 

7iio 

~23“ 

Vi" 

VsT 

l 109 

115 

13 

6 

1 46 

48 

. 42 

37 

2 

5 92 

84 

3 

4 

. 33 

37 

2 

2 

1 43 

26 

4 

3 

6 

. 34 

40 

1 

6 ~399 

387 

TT 

"JiT 

VT 

1 2997 

2341 

76 

84 

20i" 

that  of  Maynooth, 

College  of  St.  Patrick  at  Maynooth.  The  Irish  Parlia- 
ment made  to  it  ail  annual  grant  of  £14,000;  the  Eng- 
lish Parliament  sanctioned  the  grant,  but  reduced  it  to 
£8927,  out  of  which  the  professors  and  480  students 
were  supported.  The  Irish  lord  Dunboync  founded  20 


number  of  seeeders  formed  themselves  into 
the  Secession  Synod  of  Ireland  about  1780.  In  1840, 
the  General  and  Secession  synods,  having  united,  as- 
sumed the  name  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Presby- 
terian Church  in  Preland , comprising  in  185G  510  con- 
gregations, arranged  under  37  presbyteries.  The  m in- 


more  scholarships.  In  1845,  the  government,  under  the  isters  were  supported  by  voluntary  contributions,  the 
administration  of  Sir  Robert  Peel,  raised  the  annual  rents  of  scats  and  pews,  and  the  interest  of  the  reyium 
grant  to  £26,000;  more  recently  this  sum  was  again  j donum,  or  royal  gift.  This  was  first  granted  in  1672  by 
raised  to  £38,000.  In  18G9,  when  the  Augliean  Chureh  1 Charles  II,  and  in  18G9  2G  (first  class)  ministers  received 
was  disestablished,  a capital  sum  equal  to  the  amount  from  the  state  £92  Gs.  2d.  each,  and  551  (second  elass) 
of  the  Maynooth  grant,  valued  at  fourteen  years’  pur-  £G9  4s.  8 d.  each  per  annum.  As  the  ministers  in  the 
chase,  was  handed  over  to  the  representatives  of  the  first  class  died,  their  successors  only  received  the  latter 
Roman  Catliolie  Chureh.  The  Roman  Catholic  Oliver-  amount.  The  refit  m donum,  as  annual  grant,  was  abol- 
sity  at  Dublin  was  established  at  a synodal  meeting  of  islied  by  the  Irish  Church  Bill,  but  a capital  sum  equal 
the  Catliolie  bishops  held  on  May  18,  1854.  At  a con-  to  tlie  amount  of  the  donum,  valued  at  fourteen  years’ 
ference  held  in  1863  the  bishops  resolved  to  enlarge  the  : purchase,  was  handed  over  to  the  representatives  of  the 


university,  and  to  erect  a new  building  at  the  cost  of 
£100,000.  There  are,  besides,  the  Catholic  colleges  of 
St.  Patrick,  Carlow ; St.  Jarlath,  Tuam ; St.  John’s,  Wa- 
terford ; St.  Peter’s,  Wexford ; St.  Oilman's,  Fermoy; 
St.  Patrick’s,  Armagh ; St.  Patrick’s,  Thurles;  St.  Kv- 
ran’s,  Kilkenny ; St.  Mel.  Longford ; All  Hallows  (devo- 
ted exclusively  to  prepare  priests  for  foreign  missions), 
and  Clonliffe,  Dublin,  all  supported  by  voluntary  con- 
tributions. 

There  are  also  for  the  education  of  Irish  priests  two 
colleges  in  Rome,  the  Irish  College  and  the  College  of 
St.  Isidor,  and  one  in  Paris.  The  number  of  religious 
communities  of  men  has  decreased  during  the  last  hun- 
dred years.  The  Dominicans,  at  the  time  of  Benediet 
XIV,  had  29  houses,  in  I860  only  13  houses,  with  about 
50  monks;  the  Augustines  had  formerly  28,  now  14  con- 
vents; the  Carmelites  have  81  houses,  formerly  1G7 ; 
the  Jesuits  4 colleges,  1 home,  and  80  members;  the 
Lazarists,  Passiouists,  and  Redemptorists  2 houses  each ; 


Presbyterian  body.  The  total  sum  for  rtyium  donum 
voted  hv  Parliament  for  the  year  ending  March  31, 1869, 
was  £40,547.  The  minutes  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  1869  state  that  in  the  year  ending  March  31  there 
were.  628  ministers  (besides  51  licentiates  and  ordained 
ministers  without  charge),  560  congregations,  and  2G2 
manses.  The  seat  rents  produced  £38,011;  the  sti- 
pends paid  to  ministers,  £37,853;  raised  for  building  or 
repairing  churches,  manses,  and  seliools,  £17,830  ; Sab- 
bath collections,  £13,575;  mission  collections,  £12,124; 
other  charitable  collections,  £6,835.  The  Congrega- 
tional Debt  was  £37,167. 

The  Presbyterians  have  the  General  Assembly’s  Col- 
lege at  Belfast,  and  Magee  College  at  Londonderry. 
The  latter  was  opened  Oet.  10, 1865.  In  the  year  1846, 
Mrs.  Magee,  widow  of  the  late  Rev.  William  Magee, 
Presbyterian  minister  of  Lurgan,  left  £20,000  in  trust 
for  the  erection  and  endowment  of  a Presbyterian  col- 
lege. This  sum  was  allowed  to  accumulate  for  some 


646 


IRELAND 


IRELAND 


years,  until  eventually  tlie  trustees  were  authorized,  by 
a decree  of  the  lord  chancellor,  to  select  a convenient 
site  at  or  near  the  city  of  Londonderry.  The  citizens 
of  Derrv  subscribed  upwards  of  £5000  towards  the  erec- 
tion of* the  building,  which  cost  about  £10,000.  The 
Irish  Society  have  granted  an  annual  endowment  of 
.£•250  to  the  chair  of  natural  philosophy  and  mathemat- 
ics. and  £'250  for  five  years  towards  the  general  expenses 
of  the  college. 

Remonstrant  Synod  of  lister.— This  synod  was  form- 
ed in  May,  1 830,  in  consequence  of  the  separation  of 
seventeen  ministers,  with  their  congregations,  from  the 
General  Synod  of  Ulster,  on  the  ground  that,  contrary 
to  its  usages  and  code  of  discipline,  it  required  from  its 
members  in  1827  and  1828  submission  to  certain  doc- 
trinal tests  and  overtures  of  human  invention.  There 
arc  4 presbyteries  and  27  congregations  in  this  synod. 

The  Reformed  Presbyterian  Synod  of  Ireland,  consist- 
ing of  4 presbyteries  and  25  congregations,  is  uncon- 
nected with  the  General  Assembly.  It  did  not  partici- 
pate in  the  reyium  donum. 

United  Presbyten y or  Synod  of  Munster. — This  body 
was  formed  in  1809  by  the  junction  of  the  Southern 
Presbytery  of  Dublin  with  the  Presbytery  of  Munster, 
and  is  one  of  the  three  non-subscribing  Presbyterian 
bodies  of  Ireland,  the  other  two  being  the  Presbytery  oj 
Antrim  (now  consisting  of  11  congregations)  and  the 
Remonstrant  Synod  of  Ulster.  A lew  years  ago  these 
three  bodies  united  to  form  the  “ General  Non-subscrib- 
ing Presbyterian  Association  of  Ireland,”  for  the  promo- 
tion of  their  common  principles,  the  right  of  private 
judgment,  and  non-subscription  to  creeds  and  confes- 
sions of  faith.  The  General  Association  meets  trienni- 
ally  for  these  objects,  while  the  three  bodies  of  which  it 
is  composed  retain  their  respective  names  and  indepen- 
dent existence,  being  governed  by  their  own  rules  and 
regulations. 

The  Irish  Confrenee  of  the  Wesleyan  Methodist 
Connection  of  Gk  .t  Britain  numbered  in  18G9  19,059 
members,  ii 27  members  on  trial,  and  174  ministers.  The 
president  of  the  British  Conference  is  also  president  of 
the  Irish  Conference.  The  Primitive  Methodist  Socie- 
ty (also  called  Church  Methodists)  numbered  in  18G9 
87G3  members  in  Ireland.  They  regard  themselves  as 
belonging  to  the  Anglican  Church.  According  to  the 
census  of  18G1,  the  total  Methodist  population  of  Ireland 
amounted  to  45,399.  There  were  also,  according  to  the 
same  census,  4532  Independents,  4327  Baptists,  3G95 
Friends,  1N.798  belonging  to  other  sects,  and  393  Jews. 

The  commissioners  of  public  instruction  and  the  cen- 
sus commissioners  return  the  numbers  in  the  principal 
religious  denominations,  ami  their  percentage  of  the 
general  population,  in  1834  and  18G1,  as  follows: 


Profession. 

1834. 

1861. 

Decrease 
between  lt>34 
and  1861. 

Increase  be- 
tween 1834 
and  1861. 

X um- 

Per 

X um- 

'N  nul- 

Per 

her. 

Ct. 

ber. 

Ct. 

| ber. 

Ct. 

ls  r. 

Ct. 

‘"Church"1  | 

853, ien 

10.7 

693,357i 

11.9 

159,803 

18.7 

.. 

RomnnCnth-  j 

6,436,060 

80.9 

4,505,265 

77.7 

1,930,795 

30.0 

Presbyterians’. 

643, 05* 

8.1 

523,291 

9.0 

119,767 

18.7 

54,839 

Protestant  * 

1 > is. enters  l 

21,82? 

0.3 

7G.G61 

1.4 

251.3 

Jews 

393 1 

Total 

7 .054.1  on 

IU(MI 

|5,70h,9li7 

»">•» 

! 2,210,365 

cTT 

54,8391  .. 

The  census  commissioners  of  1861,  in  their  report  on 
religion  and  education  (p.  5),  remark  that “ the  Wesley- 
an Methodists,  by  a peculiarity  of  their  constitution,  al- 
though frequenting  places  of  worship  distinct  from  those 
of  the  Established  Church,  very  generally  declined  to 
be  reckoned  as  dissenters,  and  were  therefore  included 
(by  the  commissioners  of  public  instruction  of  1834) 
among  the  members  of  the  Established  Church.” 

Between  the  years  1834  and  1861  the  Homan  Catholic 
population  shows  a decline  of  1,930,795  persons — the 
difference  between  G, 430,000  in  1834  and  4,505,205  in 
1861— or  nearly  a third  of  what  was  their  entire  number 
in  1834;  and,  distributing  this  loss  over  the  original 


dioceses  (as  given  in  the  list  of  Anglican  dioceses),  as  in 
the  case  of  the  Established  Church,  we  find  that  it  has 
to  be  divided  among  thirty  out  of  the  thirty-two,  the 
only  exceptions  being  the  dioceses  of  Dublin  and  Con- 
nor, in  both  of  which  the  number  of  Roman  Catholics 
is  something  in  excess  of  what  it  was  in  1834.  The 
total  Roman  Catholic  population  of  the  thirty  dioceses 
in  which  it  is  found  to  have  declined  was  5,949,509  in 
1834,  and  4,005,104  in  1801,  showing  a loss  of  1,944,405, 
or  nearly  a third  of  the  former  population.  In  1834  the 
number  of  Presbyterians  in  Ireland  was  returned  as 
043,058,  and  in  1801  it  had  fallen  to  523,291,  exhibiting 
a reduction  of  119,767,  or  rather  less  than  a fifth  of  their 
number  in  1834.  This  reduction  distributes  itself  over 
ten  of  the  thirty-two  (original  Anglican)  dioceses — 
those,  namely,  of  Achonrv,  Armagh,  Clogher,  Connor, 
Derry,  Down,  Dromore,  Kilfcnora,  Kilmore,  and  Raplioe, 
the  total  Presbyterian  population  of  which  amounted  in 
1834  to  037,784,  and  in  1861  to  505,196,  showing  a re- 
duction of  132,588,  or  20.8  per  cent,  of  the  original  num- 
bers. In  twenty-two  dioceses  the  Presbyterians  have 
very  considerably  increased,  their  gross  population  hav- 
ing been  only  5274  in  1834,  and  18,095  in  1801,  showing 
an  increase  of  243.1  per  cent.  The  proportion  per  cent, 
of  the  members  of  tlie  Established  Church  to  the  gen- 
eral population  has  risen  since  1834  in  twenty-one  out 
of  the  thirty-two  dioceses,  has  remained  stationary  in 
two,  and  fallen  in  nine. 

In  1831  the  grants  of  public  money  for  the  education 
of  the  poor  were  intrusted  to  the  charge  of  the  lord  lieu- 
tenant, to  be  expended  on  the  instruction  of  the  children 
of  every  religious  denomination,  under  the  superintend- 
ence of  commissioners  appointed  by  the  crown,  and 
named  “The  Commissioners  of  National  Education.” 
The  principles  on  which  the  commissioners  act  are,  that 
the  schools  shall  be  open  alike  to  Christians  of  every 
denomination ; that  no  pupil  shall  be  required  to  attend 
at  any  religions  exercise,  or  to  receive  any  religious  in- 
struction which  his  parents  or  guardians  do  not  ap- 
prove, and  that  sufficient  opportunity'  shall  be  afforded 
to  the  pupils  of  each  religious  persuasion  to  receive  sep- 
arately, at  appointed  times,  such  religious  instruction 
as  their  parents  or  guardians  think  proper.  In  1845 
the  commissioners  were  incorporated  under  the  name  of 
“ The  Commissioners  of  National  Education  in  Ireland,” 
with  power  to  hold  lands  to  the  yearly  value  of  £40,000, 
to  purchase  goods  and  chattels,  to  receive  gifts  and  be- 
quests to  that  amount,  to  erect  and  maintain  schools 
where  and  as  many  as  they  shall  think  proper,  to  grant 
leases  for  three  lives  or  thirty-one  years,  to  sue  and  to 
be  sued  by  their  corporate  name  in  all  courts,  and  to 
have  a common  seal,  a power  being  vested  in  the  lord 
lieutenant  to  fill  up  vacancies,  to  appoint  additional 
members,  provided  the  total  number  does  not  exceed 
twenty,  and  to  remove  members  at  liis  pleasure. 

The  following  return  gives  the  number  of  schools  and 
pupils  at  different  periods,  and  the  amount  of  parliamen- 
tary grants  annually  voted  for  their  maintenance: 


Yenr. 

Schools. 

Pupils. 

Pnrlinm. 
G rants. 

j Year. 

Schools. 

Pupils. 

Parham. 

Grants.. 

£ 67,500 

.655 

5124 

535.905 

£215,200 

io78 

232.560 

50,000 

I860 

5632 

804.000 

270,722 

1845 

3426 

432,844 

75,1/00 

1865 

6372 

922,084 

325,583 

| 1850 

4321 

4.80,623 

120.000 

186,8 

6586 

967,563 

••60,195 

The  religious  denomination  of  the  children  who,  on 
Dec.  31, 1808,  were  on  the  rolls  of  the  national  schools, 
was  as  follows: 


Established 

Church. 

Roman 

Catholic 

Presby- 

(Jtlie  r 
Denom. 

Total. 

6852 

201,815  1 

1 957 

368  " 

209,992 

Munster 

4806 

250.639 

622 

558 

256,825 

Clsler 

54,220 

174,619 

105,333 

5635 

339,807 

Connaught 

4424 

155,711 

| 469 

196 

160,620 

Total 

70,302 

762,984 

[ 1U7.401  | 

| 6757 

See  Herzog,  A llyem.  Real-Kncykiop.  vii,  03 ; Wiggers, 
Kirehliehe  Geoyr.  u.  Statist  ik;  Neher,  Kir  chi,  Geoyr.  u. 
Statistik,  ii,  1 sq.;  Thom,  Irish  Almanac;  Porter,  Ucmp. 
Anna!,  eccl.  11 ib.  (Rom.  1090) ; Warrens,  Hibernia  Sacra. 
(Dnbl.17 17) ; Lanigan,  Reel.  IJist.  of  Ireland  (Dubl.1829). 


IRELAND 


647 


IRENiEUS 


Ireland,  Council  op  ( Concilium  Tfibemicutn),  a 
title  of  four  different  councils.  The  first  of  these  was 
hcl  l about  45(5.  By  this  council  were  published  thirty- 
four  canons  under  St.  Patrick’s  name,  and  two  other  bish- 
ops, Auxilius  and  Jcseriuus  (or  Iscrinus).  From  the  Gth 
of  these  canons  it  is  evident  that  the  priests,  deacons, 
and  other  clergy  (to  whom  they  arc  addressed)  were  mar- 
ried (comp.  Wilkins,  Cone,  i,  2).  Another  council  was 
held  about  the  same  time,  or  shortly  after,  also  said  to 
have  been  presided  over  by  St. Patrick;  but  for  this  as- 
sertion no  evidence  exists,  and  there  is  not  only  no  pos- 
sibility of  determining  the  presiding  ollieer,  but  even  the 
place  and  date  where  and  when  it  convened  are  very 
doubtful,  except  that  the  mention  of  a heathen  popula- 
tion in  Canon  2 makes  it  certain  that  it  cannot  have 
been  much  later  than  the  council  above  alluded  to.  P>y 
this  council,  which,  for  convenience  sake,  we  may  call 
the  2d,  32  canons  were  published,  the  7th  of  which  for- 
bids “ to  rebaptize  any  who  have  received  the  outward 
form,  by  whomsoever  administered,  since  the  iniquity 
of  the  sower  infects  not  the  seed  itself.”  A third  coun- 
cil was  held  in  68  I,  according  to  Mansi,  who  adds  that 
the  canons  of  this  and  other  councils  held  about  this 
time  form  together  the  code  known  as  the “ Irish  Code” 
(part  of  it  is  given  in  the  Spicilegium  of  D’Achery,  i, 
491).  Another  council  was  held  about  1097,  but  its  en- 
actments are  of  but  little  importance.  See  Landon, 
J famuil  of  Councils,  p.  267  sq. ; Labbe,  x,  G13;  Wilkins, 
Concil.  i,  4,  374.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Ireland,  John,  D.D.,  an  eminent  English  divine, 
was  born  at  Ashburton,  Devonshire,  in  17G1.  lie  ma- 
triculated at  Oxford  as  Bible  clerk  of  Oriel  College  in 
1781),  and  afterwards  became  successively  vicar  of  Croy- 
don, Surrey,  in  1793,  prebendary  of  Westminster  in  1802, 
dean  of  Westminster  and  rector  of  Islip  in  1810.  He 
died  in  1842.  lie  was  one  of  the  earlier  writers  for  the 
Quarterly  Review,  and  founded  four  scholarships,  an  ex- 
hibition, and  a professorship  at  Oxford.  Ilis  principal 
works  are,  Five  Discourses, with  notes  (Lond.  1796, 8vo): 
— Vindicite  regies;  or,  a defence  of  the  kingly  office 
(Lond.  2d  ed.  1797,  8vo) : — Xuptix  sacra; ; or,  an  inquiry 
Into  the  scriptural  doctrine  of  marriage  and  divorce 
(Lond.  1821,  8vo): — Paganism  and  Christianity  com- 
pared (Lond.  1809, 8 vo): — The  Plague  of  Marseilles  in 
lie  year  1720  (Lond.  1834, 4to). — Darling,  Cyclop.  Bib. 
u v. ; Allibone,  Did.  of  A uthors,  i,  933. 

Irenaeus  (Eroi/imioe^one  of  the  most  distinguished 
if  the  early  Church  fathers,  standing,  with  his  disciple 
Hippolytus,  “ both  of  Greek  education,  but  both  belong- 
ing, in  their  ecclesiastical  relations  and  labors,  to  the 
West,”  at  the  head  of  the  old  Catholic  controversial- 
ists, and  called  by  Theodorct “ the  Light  of  the  Western 
Church,”  was  bishop  of  Lyons,  in  France,  during  the  lat- 
ter half  of  the  2d  century. 

I.  Life. — Of  the  personal  history  of  Irenseus,  especial- 
ly in  his  youth,  but  little  is  known.  The  dates  of  Ins 
birth  are  very  variably  given  by  different  critics.  Thus 
Dodwell  places  it  about  A.D.  97,  Grabe  about  108,  Til- 
lemont  about  120,  Du  Pin  about  140.  Most  of  the  lat- 
est students  of  the  Church  fathers  incline  to  put  it  be- 
tween the  years  120  and  140.  The  place  of  his  birth, 
also,  is  not  definitely  known.  It  is  probable,  however, 
from  his  very  early  acquaintance  with  Polycarp,  the 
illustrious  bishop  of  Smyrna,  of  which  he  himself  tells 
us  (iii,  3,4;  comp.  Eusebius,  Eccles.  Hist.  p.  191,  Bohn’s 
edition),  that  he  was  born  somewhere  in  Asia  Minor; 
and  some  have  assigned  the  city  of  Smyrna  as  his  na- 
tive place.  Ilarvev,  one  of  the  editors  of  his  works, 
however,  thinks  that  lrenmus  was  born  in  Syria,  and 
that  he  came  to  Smyrna  while  yet  very  voting;  was 
there  attracted  by  the  teaching  of  bishop  Polvcarp, 
and  became  at  once  one  of  his  most  ardent  disciples. 
“ Through  this  link  he  still  was  connected  with  the  Jo- 
hannean  age.  The  spirit  of  his  preceptor  passed  over 
to  him.”  Addressing  a former  friend  of  his  own,  Flori- 
nus,  who  had  lapsed  to  Valentinianism,  whom  he  earn- 
estly endeavored  to  bring  back  to  the  Church,  he  bears 


witness  to  this  connection  in  the  following  words: 
“These  opinions,  Florinus,  that  1 may  speak  in  mild 
terms,  are  not  part  of  sound  doctrine;  these  opinions  are 
not  consonant  with  the  Church,  and  involve  their  vo- 
taries in  the  utmost  impiety;  these  opinions  even  the 
heretics  beyond  the  Church’s  pale  have  never  ventured 
to  broach ; these  opinions  those  presbyters  who  pre- 
ceded us,  and  who  were  conversant  with  the  apostles, 
did  not  hand  down  to  thee.  For,  while  I was  yet  a boy, 
I saw  thee  in  Lower  Asia  with  Polvcarp,  distinguishing 
thyself  in  the  royal  court,  and  endeavoring  to  gain  hi  '■ 
approbation.  For  I have  a more  vivid  recollection  of 
what  occurred  at  that  time  than  of  recent  events  (inas- 
much as  the  experiences  of  childhood,  keeping  pace  with 
the  growth  of  the  soul,  become  incorporated  with  it),  so 
that  I can  even  describe  the  place  where  the  blessed 
Polvcarp  used  to  sit  and  discourse — his  going  out  anti 
his  coming  in — his  general  mode  of  life  and  personal  ap- 
pearance, together  with  the  discourses  which  he  deliv- 
ered to  the  people;  also  how  he  would  speak  of  his  fa- 
miliar intercourse  with  John,  and  with  the  rest  of  those 
who  had  seen  the  Lord ; and  how  he  would  call  their 
words  to  remembrance.  . . . What  I heard  from  him, 
that  wrote  I not  on  paper,  but  in  my  heart,  and,  by  the 
grace  of  God,  I constantly  bring  it  fresh  to  my  mind.” 
It  is  not  known  at  what  time  Ircnaeus  removed  to  Gaul, 
but  it  is  supposed  by  some  that  he  accompanied  Pliofi- 
lms (whom  he  afterwards  succeeded  as  bishop)  on  his 
mission  to  Gaul  to  establish  churches  at  Lyons  and  Vi- 
enne. So  much  is  certain,  that  he  was  a presbyter  at 
Lyons  under  Marcus  Aurelius,  according  to  Eusebius  (ut 
sup.  p.  171 ; compare  p.  157),  and  was  sent  by  his  peo- 
ple to  Elcutherns,  bishop  of  Rome  (A.D.  17G-192),  as  a 
mediator  in  the  Montanistic  disputes.  While  yet  on 
this  mission  Photinns  suffered  martyrdom,  and  Irenteus 
was  elected  as  his  successor  (about  A.D.  177).  lie  at 
once  returned  and  zealously  devoted  himself,  by  tongue 
and  pen,  for  the  upbuilding  of  the  Christian  Church, 
so  greatly  suffering  at  this  time  in  Further  Gaul  from 
the  persecutions  of  the  heathen  government.  He  is 
supposed  by  some  to  have  suffered  martyrdom  in  the 
persecutions  under  Scptimins  Scverus,  A.D.  202 ; but 
the  silence  ofTcrtullian  and  Eusebius,  and  most  of  the 
early  Church  fathers,  makes  this  point  very  doubtful. 
“ Irenaeus  was  the  leading  representative  of  the  Asiatic 
Johannean  school  in  the  second  half  of  the  2d  century, 
the  champion  of  catholic  orthodoxy  against  Gnostic 
heresy,  and  the  mediator  between  the  Eastern  and  West- 
ern churches.  Ho  united  a learned  Greek  education 
and  philosophical  penetration  with  practical  wisdom  and 
moderation,  and  a just  sense  of  the  simple  essentials  in 
Christianity.  Wc  plainly  trace  in  him  the  influence  of 
the  spirit  of  John.  ‘The  true  way  to  God,’  says  he,  in 
opposition  to  the  false  Gnosis,  ‘is  love.  It  is  better  to 
be  willing  to  know  nothing  hut  Jesus  Christ  the  cruci- 
I fled,  than  to  fall  into  ungodliness  through  our  curious 
I questions  and  paltry  subtleties.’  He  was  an  enemy  ot 
| all  error  and  schism,  and,  on  the  whole,  the  most  ortho- 
| dox  of  the  ante-Xicene  fathers,  except  in  eschatology, 
i Here,  with  Papias  and  most  of  his  contemporaries,  he 
I maintained  the  millcnarian  views  which  were  subse- 
quently abandoned  by  the  Catholic  Church”  (Sehaflf,  Ch. 
j Hist,  i,  488,489).  Ircnams’s  death  is  commemorated  in 
the  Roman  Church,  June  28. 

II.  Writings  of  I rente  us.  — His  writings,  which  an 
very  extended,  covering,  in  their  translation  into  Eng- 
lish, so  far  as  now  known,  between  six  and  seven  hun- 
dred pages  of  the  “Ante-Xicene  Library”  of  the  Messrs. 
Clark,  of  Edinburgh,  are  perhaps  the  most  valuable  relic 
of  early  Christian  antiquity.  But.  “their  preciousness 
bears  no  proportion  to  their  bulk.”  “Indeed,”  says  a 
writer  in  the  Brit,  and  For.  Fee  mg.  Rev.  (Jan.  1KG9,  p. 
2),  “ it  would  be  possible  to  compress  into  a very  lew 
pages  all  the  statements  of  fact  that  can  be  deemed  real- 
ly valuable  to  us  at  the  present  day.”  Yet  the  same 
writer  adds  (p.  4)  that  the  work  of  Ireweus  is  to  us  “ in- 
i valuable  for  the  light  it  sheds  on  the  views  which  pre- 


IREN/EUS  64 

vailed  in  the  primitive  Church  respecting  many  most 
important  i>oints.”  Especially  valuable,  and  the  most 
important  of  all  the  writings  of  Irenanis,  is  liis  work  j 
' EAeyxoe;  Kai  dvarpo m)  rqg  \ptvcovvpov  yvujctujg,  gen- 
crallv  published  under  the  Latin  title  De  Refutatione  et  I 
Evtrsione  Ealsce  Xcientue  (‘‘A  Refutation  and  Subver-  | 
sion  of  Knowledge  falsely  so  calle<l”),  and  more  com- 
monly even  under  the  shorter  title  of  A drersus  I I (prises 
(“  Against  Heresies”).  This  work,  which  was  mainly 
directed  against  the  Gnostic  error  of  that  day,  was  com- 
posed during  the  pontificate  of  Jileut  herns,  and  “is  at 
once  the  polemic  theological  master-piece  of  the  ante- 
Xieene  age,  and  the  richest  mine  of  information  respect- 
ing the  Gnostics,  particularly  the  Valentinian  heresy, 
and  the  Church  doctrine  of'that  age”  (Scliaff).  The 
work  is  divided  into  five  books.  The  first  of  these  con- 
tains a minute  description  of  the  tenets  of  the  various 
heretical  sects,  with  occasional  brief  remarks  in  illus- 
tration of  their  absurdity,  and  in  confirmation  of  the 
truth  to  which  they  were  opposed.  In  his  second  book, 
Trenails  proceeds  to  a more  complete  demolition  of  those  j 
heresies  which  he  has  already  explained,  and  argues  at 
great  length  against  them,  on  grounds  principally  of 
reason.  The  three  remaining  books  set  forth  more  di- 
rectly the  true  doctrines  of  revelation,  as  being  in  utter 
antagonism  with  the  views  held  by  the  Gnostic  teach- 
ers. “ In  the  course  of  this  argument  many  passages  of 
Scripture  are  quoted  and  commented  on ; many  inter- 
esting statements  are  made,  bearing  on  the  rule  of  faith ; 
and  much  important  light  is  shed  on  the  doctrines  held, 
as  well  as  the  practices  observed  by  the  Church  of  the 
“2d  century.”  As  an  introduction  to  the  study  which 
he  describes,  and  with  which  he  manifestly  had  taken 
great  pains  to  make  himself  familiar,  and  as  an  expose 
and  refutation  of  them,  for  which  the  great  learning  of 
the  writer,  acknowledged  by  nearly  all  his  critics,  for- 
tunately coupled  with  a firm  grasp  of  the  doctrines  of 
the  Holy  Scriptures,  especially  fitted  him,  this  work  is 
truly  invaluable.  And  though  it  must  be  admitted  that 
on  some  points  Irenanis  has  put  forth  very  strange  opin- 
ions, it  cannot  be  denied  that,  upon  the  whole,  his  Ad- 
rersas  1 hr  re  ses  “contains  a vast  amount  of  sound  and 
valuable  exposition  of  Scripture  in  opposition  to  the 
fanciful  systems  of  interpretation  which  prevailed  in  his 
day.”  The  A drersus  Hwreses  was  written  in  Greek,  but 
it  is  unfortunately  now  no  longer  extant  in  the  original. 
The  English  translator  of  it  for  Clark’s  (Edinburgh)  edi- 
tion says  that  “it  has  come  down  to  us  only  in  an  an- 
cient Latin  version,  with  the  exception  of  the  greater 
part  of  the  first  book,  which  has  been  preserved  in  the 
original  Greek,  through  means  of  copious  quotations 
made  by  llippolytus  and  Epiphanius.”  The  text, both 
of  the  Latin  and  of  the  Greek,  as  far  as  extant,  is  often 
most  uncertain,  and  this  has  made  it  a difficult  task  for 
translation  into  English.  In  all  only  three  MSS.  of  it 
are  known  to  exist  at  present;  but  there  is  reason  to 
believe  that  Erasmus,  who  printed  the  first  edition  of  it 
(1520),  had  others  at  hand  in  his  preparation  of  the 
work  for  the  press.  The  Latin  version,  spoken  of  above 
as  the  only  complete  version  of  it,  was,  according  to 
1 Indwell  (Dissert  t. Iren.'y,  9,  10),  prepared  in  the  4th  cen- 
tury; but  it  is  known  that.  Tertullian,  in  his  day,  used 
the  same  version,  and  it  is  highly  probable,  therefore, 
that  it  was  made  even  as  early  as  the  beginning  of  the 
3d  century.  It  is  certainly  to  be  deplored  that  the  oth- 
er codices  which  Erasmus  must  have  used  have  not 
come  down  to  us,  or  that  they  are,  at  least,  not  known 
to  us,  for  they  might,  perhaps,  enable  us  to  determine 
more  definitely  his  meaning  in  many  passages  now  quite 
obscure  to  us  in  their  barbaric  Latin.  From  152(5,  when 
Erasmus  printed  his  first  edition,  to  1571,  several  edi- 
tions were  produced.  I hit.  all  these  had  depended  on 
the  ancient  barbarous  Latin  versions,  and  were  more- 
over defective  towards  the  end  by  five  entire  chapters. 
These  latter  were  first  supplied  in  print  by  Prof.  Fuar- 
dentius,  of  Paris,  in  an  edition  of  1575.  which  was  re- 
printed in  six  successive  editions  Gallasius,  a minis- 


3 IRENJEUS 

ter  of  Geneva,  also  had  in  1570  supplied  the  Latin  with 
the  first  portions  of  the  Greek  text  from  Epiphanius. 
In  1702,  Grabe,  a Prussian,  resident  in  England,  pub- 
lished an  edition  at  Oxford,  which  contained  consider- 
able additions  to  the  Greek  text, besides  some  fragments. 
But  the  first  really  valuable  edition  was  that  by  the 
Benedictine  Massnet  (Paris,  1712;  Venice,  1724,  2 vols. 
fol.),  since  (1857)  added  to  the  Migne  edition  of  the  fa- 
thers, of  which,  very  unfortunately,  all  the  stereotype 
plates  have  lately  been  destroyed  by  fire.  Another  edi- 
tion, containing  the  additions  which  have  been  made 
to  the  Greek  text  from  the  recently  discovered  Fhiloso- 
phoumena  of  Hippolytus,  and  thirty-two  fragments  of  a 
Syriac  version  of  the  Greek  text  of  Irena- us,  culled  from 
the  Nitrian  collection  of  Syriac  MSS.  in  the  British  Mu- 
seum, all  of  which  in  several  instances  rectify  the  read- 
ings of  the  barbarous  Latin  version,  was  prepared  by 
Wigan  Harvey,  at  Cambridge,  in  1837,  under  the  title 
S.  lrenivi  Episcojri  Lugdunensis  libri  quinque  adversus 
fhereses,  and  may  be  considered  the  best  now  extant. 
It  is  also  enriched  with  an  introduction  of  great  length, 
which  supplies  much  valuable  information  on  the  sources 
and  phenomena  of  Gnosticism,  and  the  life  and  writings 
of  Irenaus.  It  furthermore  contains  notes,  which  dis- 
play great  research  and  erudition,  and  are  especially  de- 
serving of  notice  on  account  of  the  hypothesis  which 
the  writer  seeks  to  establish,  that  Irenaus  understood 
Syriac,  and  that  the  version  of  the  Scriptures  used  by 
him  was  in  the  Syriac.  An  attempt  has  also  been  made 
by  H.  AV.  J.  Thiersch  (in  the  Stndien  u.  Kritiken,  1845) 
to  translate  the  Latin  version  of  the  first  four  chap- 
ters of  the  third  book  hack  into  the  original,  in  order 
to  lead  to  a better  understanding  of  Ireuaeus’s  meaning. 
Objections  to  the  genuineness  of  this  work  of  Irenanis 
were  of  course  made  by  the  so-called  “liberal”  German 
theologians,  as  it  is  one  of  the  “ historic  links  associating 
the  Christianity  of  the  present  day  with  that  of  our 
Lord’s  apostles  and  disciples,”  and  a work  on  which  “we 
depend  for  satisfactory  evidence  respecting  the  canon 
of  the  New  Testament”  (see  below,  under  “ Doctrines  of 
Irenaus, ” Froude’s  attack  against  Irenanis  as  a witness 
for  the  Gospels).  They  were  made  first  by  Sender,  but 
were  “ so  thoroughly  refuted,”  says  Dr.  Schaff  (Ch.  Hist. 
i,  489,  foot-note),  “by  Chr.  G.  F.  Waleli  (De  A uthentia 
librorum  Irencei,  1774),  that  Mbhler  and  Stiercn  might 
have  spared  themselves  the  trouble.” 

Besides  Adversus  Jlcereses , Irenaus  also  wrote,  ac- 
cording to  Eusebius,  “several  letters  against  those  who 
at  Rome  corrupted  the  doctrine  of  the  Clmreh : one  to 
Blastus,  concerning  schism  ; another  to  Florinns  (al- 
ready alluded  to),  concerning  the  monarchy,  or  to  prove 
that  God  is  not  the  author  of  evil ; and  concerning  the 
number  eight.;”  but  these  are  all  lost  to  us  with  the 
exception  of  a few  fragments.  Eusebius  also  mentions 
“a  discourse  of  Irenaus  against  the  Gentiles,  entitled 
7T(pt  t7nrm'if.njc  ( Concerning  Knowledge)  ; another  in- 
scribed to  a brother  named  Mareianus,  being  a demon- 
stration of  the  apostolical  preaching;  and  a little  book 
j of  sundry  disputations;”  but  these,  also,  are  mainly  lost 
to  ns.  Pfaff,  in  1715,  discovered  at  Turin  four  more 
Greek  fragments,  which  he  attributed  to  Irenaus  as 
their  author.  The  genuineness  of  these  lias  been  called 
in  question  by  some  Roman  divines,  “ though,”  says  Dr. 
Schaff,  “without  sufficient  reason.”  These  four  frag- 
| incuts  treat  (1)  of  true  knowledge  (Tru/aig  dXtftivi]), 
“which  consists,  not  in  the  true  solution  of  subtle  ques- 
tions, but  in  divine  wisdom  and  the  imitation  of  Christ ;” 
(2)  on  the  Eucharist;  (3)  on  the  duty  of  toleration  in 
subordinate  points  of  difference  with  reference  to  the 
Easter  difficulties;  (4)  on  the  object  of  the  incarnation , 
“ which  is  stated  to  be  the  purging  away  of  sin,  and  the 
final  annihilation  of  all  evil.”  An  edition  containing 
the  Prolegomena  to  the  earlier  editions,  and  also  the 
disputations  of  Maffei  and  Pfaff  on  the  fragments  of 
Irenanis  just  mentioned,  was  published  by  H.  Stiereii 
under  the  title  S.  Irenai  Episcopi  Lugdun.  qua;  super- 
sunt  omnia  (Lips,  1853,  2 vols.). 


IRENiEUS 


649 


IREXJEUS 


III.  Doctrines. — We  have  already  said  that  the  writ- 
ings of  Irenaeus  are  invaluable  to  us  as  an  index  of  the 
views  which  the  primitive  Church  of  Christ  held  on 
many  very  important  points  that  have  become  mat- 
ters of  controversy  between  the  different  branches  of 
the  Christian  Church  up  to  our  own  day.  In  this,  of 
course,  we  shall  be  mainly  dependent  upon  his  exten- 
sive work  against  Heretics,  or  the  Gnostics;  and  though 
some  of  his  views,  especially  on  the  millennium,  may 
not  have  our  approval,  we  must  none  the  less  commend 
the  whole  work  for  the  fervent  piety  which  constantly 
impresses  us  in  the  perusal  of  it. 

1.  God  and  Creation. — The  doctrine  of  the  unity  of 
God  as  the  eternal,  almighty,  omnipresent,  just,  and  holy 
creator  and  upholder  of  all  things,  which  the  Christian 
Church  inherited  from  Judaism,  was  one  which  lhe  ear- 
ly Christian  writers  were  especially  called  upon  to  vin- 
dicate against  the  absurd  polytheism  of  the  pagans, 
and  particularly  against  the  dualism  of  the  Gnostics. 
Accordingly  we  find  most  of  the  creeds  of  the  first  cen- 
turies, especially  the  Apostles’  and  the  Niccne,  begin 
with  the  confession  of  faith  in  God,  the  Father  al- 
mighty, maker  of  heaven  and  earth,  of  the  visible  and 
the  invisible.  In  like  manner,  “with  the  defense  of 
this  fundamental  doctrine  laid  down  in  the  very  first 
chapters  of  the  Bible,  Irenaeus  opens  his  refutation  of 
the  Gnostic  heresies,  saying,  in  the  language  of  Justin 
Martyr,  that  he  would  not  have  believed  the  Lord  him- 
self if  he  had  announced  any  other  God  than  the  Cre- 
ator. He  repudiates  everything  like  an  a priori  con- 
struction of  the  idea  of  God,  and  bases  his  knowledge 
wholly  on  revelation  and  Christian  experience.”  So 
also  on  the  doctrine  of  creation,  Irenaeus,  and  with  him 
Tertullian,  “ most  firmly  rejected  the  hylozoic  and  demi- 
urgic views  of  paganism  and  Gnosticism,  and  taught, 
according  to  the  book  of  Genesis  (comp.  Psa.  xxxiii,  9 ; 
cxlviii,  5;  John  i,  3),  that  God  made  the  world,  includ- 
ing matter,  not,  of  course,  out  of  any  material,  but  out 
of  nothing,  or,  to  express  it  positively,  out  of  his  free, 
almighty  will  by  his  word.  This  free  will  of  God,  a 
will  of  love , is  the  supreme,  absolutely  unconditioned, 
and  all-conditioning  cause  and  final  reason  of  all  exist- 
ence, precluding  every  idea  of  physical  force  or  of  ema- 
nation. Every  creature,  since  it  proceeds  from  the  good 
and  holy  God,  is  in  itself,  as  to  its  essence,  good  (comp. 
Gen.  i,  31).  Evil,  therefore,  is  not  an  original  and  sub- 
stantial entity,  but  a corruption  of  nature,  and  hence 
can  be  destroyed  by  the  power  of  redemption.  Without 
a correct  doctrine  of  creation  there  can  be  no  true  doc- 
trine of  redemption,  as  all  the  Gnostic  systems  show.” 

2.  Person  of  Christ. — On  the  relation  which  Christ 
sustained  to  the  Father  also,  the  views  of  Irenaeus  are 
important,  because  he  is,  after  Polvcarp,  “the  most 
faithful  representative  of  the  Johannean  school.”  He 
certainly  “ keeps  more  within  the  limits  of  the  simple 
Biblical  statements,”  and  in  the  simpler  way  of  the 
Western  fathers,  among  whom  he  may  be  counted,  not- 
withstanding his  early  Greek  training.  “ He  ventures  no 
such  bold  speculations  as  the  Alexandrians,  but  is  more 
sound,  and  much  nearer  the  Nicene  standard.  He  like- 
wise uses  the  terms  \6yoe;  and  Son  of  God  interchangea- 
bly, and  concedes  the  distinction,  made  also  bv  the  Val- 
entinians,  between  the  inward  and  the  uttered  word,  in 
reference  to  man,  but  contests  the  application  of  it  to 
God,  who  is  above  all  antitheses,  absolutely  simple  and 
unchangeable,  and  in  whom  before  and  after,  thinking 
and  speaking,  coincide.  He  repudiates  also  every  spec- 
ulative or  a priori  attempt  to  explain  the  derivation  of 
the  Son  from  the  Father;  this  he  holds  to  be  an  incom- 
prehensible mystery.  He  is  content  to  detine  the  actual 
distinction  between  Father  and  Son  by  saying  that  the 
former  is  God  revealing  himself;  the  latter,  God  reveal- 
ed ; the  one  is  the  ground  of  revelation,  the  other  is  the 
actual,  appearing  revelation  itself.  Hence  he  calls  the 
Father  the  invisible  of  the  Son,  and  the  Son  the  visible 
of  the  Father.  He  discriminates  most  rigidly  the  con- 
ceptions of  generation  and  of  creation.  The  Son,  though 


begotten  of  the  Father,  is  still,  like  him,  distinguished 
from  the  created  world,  as  increate,  without  beginning, 
and  eternal — all  plainly  showing  that  Irenaeus  is  much 
nearer  the  Nicene  dogma  of  the  substantial  identity  of 
the  Son  with  the  Father  than  Justin  and  the  Alexan- 
drians. If,  as  he  does  in  several  passages,  he  still  sub- 
ordinates the  Son  to  the  Father,  he  is  certainly  incon- 
sistent, and  that  for  want  of  an  accurate  distinction 
between  the  eternal  Logos  and  the  actual  Christ.  The 
\oyog  dcrapicog  and  the  \6yog  ivaapKog,  expressions 
like  ‘My  Father  is  greater  than  I,’  which  apply  only 
to  the  Christ,  of  history,  he  refers  also,  like  Justin  and 
Origen,  to  the  eternal  Word.  On  the  other  hand,  he 
has  been  charged  with  leaning  in  the  opposite  direction 
towards  the  Sabellian  and  Patripassian  views,  but  un- 
justly, as  Duncker,  in  his  monograph  Die  Christologie 
des  heilifj.  Irenaus  (p.  50  sq.),  has  unanswerably  shown. 
Apart  from  his  frequent  want  of  precision,  he  steers  in 
general,  with  sure  Biblical  and  churchly  tact,  equally 
clear  of  both  extremes,  and  asserts  alike  the  essential 
unity  and  the  eternal  personal  distinction  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son.  The  incarnation  of  the  Logos  he  ably 
discusses,  viewing  it  both  as  a restoration  and  redemp- 
tion from  sin  and  death,  and  as  the  completion  of  the 
revelation  of  God  and  of  the  creation  of  man.  In  the 
latter  view',  as  tinisher,  Christ  is  the  perfect  Son  of  man, 
in  whom  the  likeness  of  man  to  God,  the  siniilitudo  Dei, 
regarded  as  moral  duty,  in  distinction  from  the  imago 
Dei,  as  an  essential  property,  becomes  for  the  first  time 
fully  real.  According  to  this,  the  incarnation  would  be 
grounded  in  the  original  plan  of  God  for  the  education 
of  mankind,  and  independent  of  the  fall ; it  would  have 
taken  place  even  without  the  fall,  though  in  some  other 
form.  Yet  Irenaeus  does  not  expressly  say  this;  specu- 
lation on  abstract  possibilities  was  foreign  to  his  real- 
istic cast  of  mmd”  (Dr.  Scliaff,  i,  § 77,  78). 

We  now  pass  to  a consideration  of  Ircnaeus’s  views  on 
the  doctrine  of  Christ’s  humanity.  Here,  again,  his  first 
task  is  to  refute  Gnostic  Docetists.  “Christ,”  he  con- 
tends against  them,  “ must  be  a man,  like  us,  if  he  would 
redeem  us  from  corruption  and  make  us  perfect.  As  sin 
and  death  came  into  the  world  by  a man,  so  they  could 
be  blotted  out  legitimately  and  to  our  advantage  only 
by  a man;  though,  of  course,  not  by  one  who  should  be 
a mere  descendant  of  Adam,  and  thus  himself  stand  in 
need  of  redemption,  but  by  a second  Adam,  supernatu- 
rally  begotten,  a new  progenitor  of  our  race,  as  divine  as 
he  is  human.  A new  birth  unto  life  must  take  the  place 
of  the  old  birth  unto  death.  As  the  completer,  also, 
Christ  must  enter  into  fellowship  with  us,  to  be  our 
teacher  and  pattern.  He  made  himself  equal  with 
man,  that  man,  by  Ins  likeness  to  the  Son,  might  be- 
come precious  in  the  Father’s  sight.”  I re  mens  (to  quote 
I)r.  Schaff  still  further)  “conceived  the  humanity  of 
Christ  not  as  mere  corporeality,  though  he  often  con- 
tends for  this  alone  against  the  Gnostics,  but  as  true 
humanity,  embracing  body,  soul,  and  spirit.  Fie  places 
Christ  in  the  same  relation  to  the  regenerate  race 
which  Adam  bears  to  the  natural,  and  regards  him  as 
the  absolute  universal  man,  the  prototype  and  summing 
up  of  the  w hole  race.  Connected  with  this  is  his  beau- 
tiful thought,  found  also  in  flippolvtus  in  the  tenth 
book  of  the  Philosophoumena,  that  Christ  made  the  cir- 
cuit of  all  the  stages  of  human  life,  to  redeem  and  sanc- 
tify all.  To  apply  this  to  advanced  age,  he  singularly 
extended  the  life  of  Jesus  to  fifty  years,  and  endeavored 
to  prove  his  view  from  the  gospels  against,  the  Valen- 
tinians.  The  fidl  communion  of  Christ  with  men  in- 
volved his  participation  in  all  their  evils  and  sufferings, 
his  death,  and  his  descent,  into  the  abode  of  the  dead.” 
Also  on  the  doctrine  of  the  mutual  relation  of  the  divine 
and  the  human  in  Christ,  which  wras  neither  specially 
discussed  nor  brought  to  a final,  definite  settlement  un- 
til the  Christological  controversies  of  the  5th  century, 
Irenaeus,  in  a number  of  passages,  throws  out  hints 
which  deserve  consideration  from  their  importance. 
“ He  teaches  unequivocally  a true  and  indissoluble  union 


650 


IRENiEUS 


IREX.EUS 


of  divinity  and  humanity  in  Christ,  and  repels  the  ! 
Gnostic  idea  of  a mere  external  and  transient  connec-  j 
tion  of  the  divine  2wr//p  with  the  human  Jesus.  The 
foundation  for  that  union  he  perceives  in  the  creation  I 
of  the  world  by  the  Logos,  and  in  man’s  original  like-  1 
ness  to  God  and  destination  for  permanent  fellowship 
with  hirn.  In  the  act  of  union,  that  is,  in  the  super- 
natural generation  and  birth,  the  divine  is  the  active 
principle,  and  the  seat  of  personality;  the  human,  the 
passive  or  receptive;  as,  in  general,  man  is  absolutely 
dependent  on  God,  and  is  the  vessel  to  receive  the  reve- 
lations of  his  wisdom  and  love.  The  medium  and  bond 
of  the  union  is  the  Holy  Ghost  (see  below'),  who  took 
the  place  of  the  masculine  agent  in  the  generation,  and 
overshadowed  the  virgin  womb  of  Mary  with  the  power 
of  the  Highest.  In  this  connection  he  calls  Mary  the 
counterpart  of  Eve,  the  ‘ mother  of  all  living’  in  a 
higher  sense,  wrho,  by  her  believing  obedience,  became 
the  cause  of  salvation  both  to  herself  and  to  the  whole 
human  race,  as  Eve,  by  her  disobedience,  induced  the 
apostasy  and  death  of  mankind  — a fruitful  parallel, 
which  was  afterwards  frequently  pushed  too  far,  and 
turned,  no  doubt,  contrary  to  its  original  sense,  to  favor 
the  idolatrous  worship  of  the  blessed  Virgin,  lrenaens 
seems,  at  least  according  to  Horner  ( Clirisioloyy , i,  495), 
to  conceive  the  incarnation  as  progressive,  the  two  fac- 
tors reaching  absolute  communion  (but  neither  absorb- 
ing the  other)  in  the  ascension ; though  before  this,  at 
even'  stage  of  life,  Christ  was  a perfect  man,  presenting 
the  model  of  every  age”  (Schaff,  i,  § 79). 

3.  The  Holy  Ghost , — On  the  doctrine  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  Iremeus,  more  nearly  than  the  Greek  Church  fa- 
thers, especially  the  Alexandrians,  represents  the  dogma 
of  the  perfect,  substantial  identity  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
with  the  Father  and  the  Son  ; “ though  his  repeated  fig- 
urative (but  for  this  reason  not  so  definite)  designation 
of  the  Son  and  Spirit  as  the  ‘hands’  of  the  Father,  by 
which  he  made  all  things,  implies  a certain  subordina- 
tion (see  Irenanis’s  views  given  below'  under  “Trinity”). 
He  differs  from  most  of  the  fathers  in  referring  the 
Wisdom  of  the  book  of  Proverbs  not  to  the  Logos,  but 
to  the  Spirit,  and  hence  he  must  have  regarded  him  as 
eternal.  Yet  he  was  far  from  conceiving  the  Spirit  as 
a mere  power  or  attribute;  he  considered  him  an  inde- 
pendent personality,  like  the  Logos.  ‘With  God,’  says 
lie  (.  ! dr.  llee res.  iv,  20,  § 1 ),  ‘ are  ever  the  Word  and  the 
Wisdom,  the  Son  and  the  Spirit,  through  whom  and  in 
whom  he  freely  made  all  things,  to  w'hom  he  said,  “ Let 
us  make  man  in  our  image,  after  our  likeness.”’  I3ut 
he  speaks  more  of  the  operations  than  of  the  nature  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  The  Spirit  predicted  in  the  prophets 
the  coming  of  Christ;  has  been  near  to  man  in  all  di- 
vine ordinances;  communicates  the  knowledge  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son ; gives  believers  the  consciousness 
of  Sonship;  is  fellowship  with  Christ,  the  pledge  of  im- 
perishable life,  and  the  ladder  on  which  we  ascend  to 
God”  (Schaff,  § SO). 

4.  The  Trinity.— On  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  the 
language  of  Ircmcus  is  perhaps  plainer  and  more  incon- 
trovertible than  that  of  any  other  of  the  early  Church 
fathers,  and  yet  both  Arians  and  Socinians  have  some- 
times presumed  to  claim  him  as  a supporter  of  their  pe- 
culiar theories,  lint  wre  have  his  own  expressions  mak- 
ing both  ( ’Grist  and  the  Holy  Spirit  parts  of  the  supreme 
divinity.  Nay,  Christ  is  often  expressly  declared  to  be 
God.  Thus,  in  a passage  in  which  I re  incus  is  comment- 
ing on  the  prophecy  respecting  the  birth  of  Emmanuel 
he  says:  “ Can  fully,  then,  has  the  Holy  Ghost  pointed 
out,  by  what  has  been  said,  his  birth  from  a virgin,  and 
his  essence,  that  he.  is  God , for  the  name  Emmanuel  in- 
dicates this”  (iii,  21,  4);  and  again,  in  allusion  to  the  1 
Father:  “ With  him  were  always  present  the  Word  and  I 
Wisdom,  the  Son  and  the  Spirit,  by  w hom  and  in  whom,  | 
freely  and  spontaneously,  he  made  all  things;  to  whom,  I 
also,  he  spoke,  saying,  ‘ Let  us  make  man  after  our  im-  I 
ago  and  likeness.’'”  Indeed,  Dr.  Schaff  (Ch.  Hist,  i,  28(5)  j 
seems  hardly  justified  in  his  statement  that  “ of  a supra-  I 


mundane  trinity  of  essence  Iremeus  betrays  but  faint 
indications.”  He  continually  quotes  from  Genesis,  with 
the  object  of  showing  that  both  Christ  and  the  Holy 
Spirit  existed  with  the  Father  anterior  to  all  creation 
(“ante  oranem  constitutionem”).  With  a WTiter  in  the 
Brit,  and  For.  Evany.  Rev.  (1869,  p.  12),  W'e  are  inclined 
to  believe  that  the  word  “ hands”  is  used  by  Irena?us 
to  indicate  that  they  are  both  co-workers  of  the  Father 
rather  than  his  subordinate  workman  (compare  Ebrard, 
Kirchen-  mid  Doymenyesch.  i,  1 10  and  1 1 1 , note  8).  “ In 
all  things  and  through  all  things  there  is  one  God,  the 
F’ather,  and  one  Word,  and  one  Son,  and  one  Spirit,  and 
one  salvation  to  all  that  believe  in  him.”  Another  very 
beautiful  passage  “reveals  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity 
as  being,  in  fact,  wrapped  up  in  the  official  title  by  which 
the  Saviour  is  designated.”  Says  he : “ In  the  name  of 
Christ  (iii,  18,  3)  is  implied  he  that  anoints,  he  that  is 
anointed,  and  the  unction  itself  with  which  he  is  anoint- 
ed. And  it  is  the  Father  who  anoints,  but  the  Son  who 
is  anointed  by  the  Spirit,  who  is  the  unction,  as  the 
word  declares  by  Isaiah, 1 The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  upon 
me,  because  he  hath  anointed  me,’ thus  pointing  out  the 
anointing  Father,  the  anointed  Son,  and  the  Unction 
which  is  the  Spirit”  — certainly  “a  rich  and  pregnant 
thought,  which  will  bear  much  consideration.  It  is 
very  striking  and  satisfactory  to  find  the  doctrine  of 
the  three  divine  persons  thus  developed  out  of  the  very 
name  which  the  Saviour  bears.  Nor  does  there  seem 
anything  fanciful  in  the  reasoning;  for,  as  we  cannot 
think  of  an  anointed  one  without  necessarily  thinking 
also  of  one  who  anoints,  and  of  the  unction  with  which 
he  is  anointed,  we  are  thus  led  to  conceive,  by  a simple 
remembrance  of  our  Lord’s  official  designation,  of  the 
F’ather,  the  anointer,  the  Son,  the  anointed,  and  the 
Spirit,  the  living  unction  who  came  down,  in  infinite 
fulness,  from  the  Father  on  the  Son — the  three-one  God, 
being  by  means  of  a single  word  thus  brought  before  us 
as  the  God  of  our  salvation”  (Brit,  and  For.  Erany.  Bee. 
1869,  p.  13).  With  all  these  direct  testimonies  staring  us 
in  the  face,  it  is  certainly  ridiculous  to  see  the  efforts  on 
the  part  of  some  nationalistic  theologians  to  assert  that 
Irenoeus  was  not  strictly  Trinitarian  in  his  views  on  this 
subject.  But  more  than  this:  it  was  this  self-same  Irt- 
na?us  who  opposed  the  Philonic  doctrine  of  the  Aoytir, 
which  other  Church  fathers,  especially  of  the  Alexan- 
drian school,  seemed  so  ready  to  accept,  as  Theophilus 
of  Antiochia,  and  even  Tertullian  (comp.  Ebrard,  Kir- 
chen- v.  Doymenyesch.  i,  1 1 6. 

5.  Redemption.  — Of  all  the  Church  fathers,  Irenauis 
was  the  first  who  gave  a careful  analysis  of  the  work  of 
redemption,  “and  his  view,”  says  Dr.  Schaff  (Ch.  Hist. 
i,  297),  “is  by  far  the  deepest  and  soundest  we  find  in 
the  first  three  centuries.  Christ,  he  teaches,  as  the  sec- 
ond Adam,  repeated  in  himself  the  entire  life  of  man, 
from  birth  to  death  and  hades,  from  childhood  to  man- 
hood, and,  as  it  were,  summed  up  that  life  and  brought 
it  under  one  head  (this  is  the  sense  of  his  frequent  ex- 
pression, ' AvaKt<pa\aiovv,  dvaKt(t>a\aiu)mc,  recapitu- 
lare,  rccapitulatio),  with  the  double  purpose  of  restoring 
humanity  from  its  fall  and  carrying  it  to  perfection. 
Redemption  comprises  the  taking  away  of  sin  by  the 
perfect  obedience  of  Christ,  the  destruction  of  death  by 
victorj' over  the  devil,  and  the  communication  of  a new 
divine  life  to  man.  To  accomplish  this  work,  the  Re- 
deemer must  unite  in  himself  the  divine  and  human 
natures;  for  only  as  God  could  he  do  wliat  man  could 
not,  and  only  as  man  could  he  do,  in  a legitimate  way, 
what  man  should.  By  the  voluntary  disobedience  of 
Adam  the  devil  gained  a power  over  man,  but  in  an  un- 
fair way,  by  fraud  (dtssnasio).  By  the  voluntary  obe- 
dience of  Christ  that  power  was  wrested  from  him  by 
lawful  means  (by  suadela , persuasion,  announcement  of 
truth,  not  overreaching  or  deception).  This  took  place 
first  in  the  temptation,  in  which  Christ  renewed  or  re- 
capitulated the  struggle  of  Adam  with  Satan,  but  de- 
feated the  seducer,  and  thereby  liberated  man  from  bis 
thraldom.  But  then  the  whole  life  of  Christ  was  a con- 


IRENiEUS 


651 


IREN^EUS 


tinued  victorious  conflict  with  Satan,  and  a constant 
obedience  to  God.  This  obedience  was  completed  in 
the  suffering  and  death  on  the  tree  of  the  cross,  and  thus 
blotted  out  the  disobedience  which  the  first  Adam  had 
committed  on  the  tree  of  knowledge.  It  is,  however, 
only  the  negative  side.  To  this  is  added  the  commu- 
nication of  a new  divine  principle  of  life,  and  the  per- 
fecting of  the  idea  of  humanity  first  effected  by  Christ.” 
See  Redemption;  Okigen.  r 

G.  The  Sacraments. — On  this  subject,  perhaps  more 
than  upon  any  other  on  which  Iremeus  has  written,  we 
meet  with  a vagueness  of  expression  which  hardly  ena- 
bles us  definitely  to  determine  what  he  actually  believed. 
But  even  “ Romanists  tacitly  admit  that  he  says  noth- 
ing of  confirmation,  ordination,  marriage,  or  extreme 
unction  favorable  to  the  sacramental  character  which 
they  assign  to  these  rites.  And  this  is  3 very  strong 
negative  testimony  against  the  correctness  of  their  opin- 
ions. If  such  an  early  writer  as  lrenauis,  in  the  course 
of  a lengthened  theological  work,  which  naturally  led 
him  to  the  ordinances  as  well  as  doctrines  of  the  Church, 
has  not  a word  to  say  in  regard  to  the  above  so-called 
sacraments,  the  inference  is  pretty  clear  that  they  were 
not  recognised  as  such  in  his  day.  . . . Massuct  makes 
a very  lame  attempt  to  prove  from  the  writings  of  Ire- 
nteus  that  the  sacrament  of  penance  was  practised  in  the 
Church  of  his  day.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the 
passages  to  which  he  refers  (i,  6,  3;  13,  5)  prove  that 
public  confession  of  flagrant  sins  was  common  in  t lie 
Church  of  the  2d  century.  This  was  called  exomologe- 
sis,  and  seems  to  have  been  indispensable  fertile  removal 
of  the  censures  of  the  Church.  But  there  is  nothing  to 
indicate  its  sacramental  character,  and  not  a shadow  of 
support  can  be  derived  from  it  for  the  popish  practice 
of  auricular  confession”  (Brit,  and  For.  Evang.  Rev.  Jan. 
18G9,  p.  18).  See  Confession. 

Of  Infant  Baptism  the  first  clear  trace  is  found  in  the 
writings  of  our  author,  who  thus  writes  of  the  sacrament 
of  baptism  (ii,  22,  4) : “ Christ  caine  to  save  all  who  are 
regenerated  by  him,  infants  and  little  children,  and 
boys,  and  youths,  and  elders.”  II  j thus  applies  it  to  all 
ages,  Christ  having  passed  through  all  the  stages  of 
life  for  this  purpose.  Neander  says  of  this  passage 
(Hist.  Christian  Dogmas , i,  230) : “ If  by  the  phrase  re~ 
nasci  in  Deum  (in  the  Latin  transl.)  baptism  is  intend- 
ed, it  contains  a proof  of  infant  baptism.  Infantes  and 
parvuli  are  distinguished;  the  latter  possess  a devel- 
oped consciousness,  hence  to  them  Christ  is  a pattern 
of  piety,  while  to  the  infantes  he  merely  gives  an  objec- 
tive sanctification;  we  must  therefore  understand  the 
latter  to  mean  quite  little  children.”  But  the  statement 
of  Iremeus  leads  us  to  infer  that  he  believed  in  the  doc- 
trine of  baptismal  regeneration,  which  is  strengthened 
by  another  passage  (iii,  17,  1):  “And  again,  giving  to 
the  disciples  the  power  of  regeneration  unto  God,  he 
said  to  them,  ‘ Go  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them 
in  the  name  of  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.’”  (Compare  an  article  on  this  subject  in  the 
A merican  Presbyterian  Review,  April,  18G7,  p.  239  sq. ; 
Scliaff,  Church  History,  i,  402.) 

On  the  Lord's  Supper,  also,  the  indefinite  statements 
of  Iremeus  have  given  rise  to  much  dispute.  Roman- 
ists stoutly  affirm  that  he  declares  in  favor  of  their  doc- 
trine of  transubstantiation,  and  the  real  presence;  but 
this  arises  from  a variable  reading  of  one  passage,  of 
which  Neander  says  (p.  238),  “ According  to  one  read- 
ing it  is  said,  Yerbum  quod  ojfertur  Deo,  which  must 
mean  the  Logos  which  is  presented  to  God;  therefore, 
the  sacrifice  would  refer  to  the  presentation  of  Christ 
himself.  Yet  we  can  hardly  make  up  our  minds  to  ac- 
cept this  as  the  opinion  of  Iremeus,  who  always  savs 
that  Christians  must  consecrate  all  to  God  in  Christ’s 
name ; for  example,  Ecclesia  offert  j>er  Jesnm  Christum. 
We  cannot  doubt  that  the  other  reading  is  the  correct 
one,  Yerbum  per  quod  ejfertnr  Deo."  Dr.  Schaff  also  de- 
clines to  give  the  Romanists  a hearing  on  this  point, 
and  argues  further,  that  Iremeus  “in  another  place  (iv, 


18  and  passim)  calls  the  bread  and  wine,  after  consccra* 
tion,  ‘ antitypes,’  implying  the  continued  distinction  of 
their  substance  from  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ.  This 
expression  in  itself,  indeed,  might  be  understood  as  mere- 
ly contrasting  here  the  Supper,  as  the  substance,  with 
the  Old-Testament  Passover,  its  type;  as  Peter  calls 
baptism  the  antitype  of  the  saving  water  of  the  flood  (1 
Pet.  iii,  20,  21).  But  the  connection,  and  the  usus  lo~ 
quemli  of  the  earlier  Greek  fathers,  require  us  to  take 
the  term  antitype  in  the  sense  of  type,  or,  more  precise- 
ly, as  the  antithesis  of  archetype.  The  bread  ami  wine 
represent  and  exhibit  the  body  and  blood  of  Christ  as 
the  archetype,  and  correspond  to  them  as  a ccpv  to  the 
original.  In  exactly  t lie  same  sense  it  is  said  in  Ileb. 
ix,  24  (comp,  viii,  5),  that  the  earthly  sanctuary  is  the 
antitype,  that  is,  the  copy  of  the  heavenly”  (i,  387). 
We  think  Iremeus  speaks  more  definitely  of  this  ordi- 
nance in  one  of  the  Fragments  (xxxviii,  Massuet),  from 
which  it  clearly  follows  that  he  by  no  means  believed 
in  the  opus  operation  of  the  Romanists.  (Comp.  Brit, 
and  For.  Evang.  Review,  Jan.  18G9,  p.  19,20.) 

7.  The  Church.— By  the  peculiar  attitude  in  which 
Iremeus  placed  himself  when  combating  the  Gnostic 
heresies,  he  became  unconsciously  one  of  the  most  elab- 
orate writers  on  the  early  Church  that  now  remains  to 
us,  and  the  utterances  of  no  other  of  the  early  Church 
fathers  have  so  frequently  been  misinterpreted  to  prop 
up  the  claims  of  Romanism  as  those  of  Iremeus.  It  is 
beyond  question  that  the  Romanists,  as  well  as  Iligh- 
Chureli  prelatists,  however  hesitatingly,  misconstrued 
the  statements  of  Iremeus  in  defence  of  the  Church  of 
Christ  against  Valentinus,  Basilides,  Marcion,  and  other 
schismatics,  who  in  his  time  threatened  the  very  life  of 
the  early  Christian  Church,  as  statements  favoring  the 
doctrine  of  apostolic  succession  (q.  v.).  Iremeus,  evident- 
ly in  defence  of  his  Church,  and  as  an  opponent  of  the 
heretics,  presents  a “ historical  chain  of  bishops.”  Says 
he  (iii, 3, 1),  “We  are  in  a position  to  reckon  up  those 
who  were  by  the  apostles  instituted  bishops  in  the 
churches,  and  the  successors  of  these  bishops  to  our  own 
times.”  But,  in  naming  the  bishops  in  their  historical 
order,  he  “never  dreams  of  ascribing  to  them  any  sort 
of  spiritual  influence  or  authority  which  was  propagated 
from  one  to  another.  To  show  that  he  could  link  his- 
torically Eleutherius,  who  was  then  head  of  the  Church 
of  Rome,  with  the  apostles,  who  were  supposed  to  have 
founded  that  Church,  was  the  sole  and  simple  object 
contemplated  by  our  author  in  reference  to  the  succes- 
sion.” In  his  arguments  with  the  Valentinians,  Marci- 
onites,  and  others,  he  endeavors  to  prove,  by  constant 
appeals  to  the  Scriptures,  that  their  doctrines  were  not 
in  harmony  with  the  inspired  writings.  “ Ilad  he  found 
‘ the  truth’  among  them,  he  would  have  had  no  occasion 
to  treat  of  the  succession  at  all,  but  would  ac  once  have 
owned  them  as  forming  a part  of  the  Catholic  Church,” 
which  he  defined,  not  as  Romanists  and  High-Church- 
men, to  be  only  where  the  pope’s  supremacy  is  acknowl- 
edged, or  the  Episcopal  Church  doctrines  are  adhered  to, 
but,  he  says,  “ Ubi  ecclesia”— putting  the  Church  first, 
in  the  genuine  catholic  spirit  (iii,  24) — “ibi  et  Spiritus 
Dei;  et  ubi  Spiritus  Dei,  illic  ecclesia  et  onmis  gratia,” 
or,  as  Dr.  Schaff  says,  Protestantism  would  put  it  con- 
versely: “Where  the  Spirit  of  God  is,  there  is  the 
Church  ; and  where  the  Church  is,  there  is  the  Spirit  of 
God  and  all  grace.” 

8.  The  Millennium. — The  peculiar  millennial  views  of 
Irenaens,  which  stamp  him,  by  his  close  adherence  to 
Papias,  as  a Chiliast,  we  hardly  care  to  touch;  they  are 
certainly  the  weak  spot  in  our  author,  and  deserve  to  be 
passed  not  only  without  comment,  but  even  unnoticed. 
They  are  brought  out  specially  near  the  end  of  his  great 
work  (v,  32-36),  declaring  a future  reign  of  the  saints 
on  earth ; arguing  that  such  promises  of  Scripture  as 
those  in  Gen.  xiii,  14;  Matt,  xxvi,  27-29,  etc.,  can  have 
no  other  interpretation. 

9.  The  Easter  Controversy. — The  personal  character 
of  Iremeus,  of  which  we  have  as  yet  said  but  little,  is 


IREXJEUS 


652 


IRENAEUS 


perhaps  best  illustrated  by  his  conduct  in  the  Easter 
controversy  (q.  v.).  Determined  to  work  for  a union  of 
all  Christians  (iv,  33, 7),  he  displayed  an  irenical  dispo- 
sition in  all  disputes  about  unessential  outward  things, 
and  more  especially  in  his  mediation  between  Victor, 
then  bishop  of  Rome,  and  the  Asiatic  churches. 

10.  Testimony  to  the  Scriptures. — The  influence  which 
Iremeus  exerted  at  this  time,  and  in  other  controversies 
that  preceded,  adds  additional  interest  to  the  writings  of 
this  Church  father,  and  makes  especially  valuable  any 
testimony  that  he  may  have  left  us  on  the  authenticity 
of  the  sacred  writings.  A leading  representative  of  the 
Asiatic  Johannean  school  of  the  second  half  of  the  ‘2d 
century,  born  ere  the  apostle  John  had  departed  this 
life,  and  consequently  called  by  Eusebius  “a  disciple  of 
the  apostles,”  and  by  Jerome  “the  disciple  of  John  the 
apostle,”  he  bears  us  such  direct  testimony  in  behalf  of 
the  Gospels,  or,  as  Eusebius  terms  them,  the  “ Homolo- 
goumena,”  that  it  becomes  to  us  of  the  very  highest  im- 
portance among  the  external  proofs  of  their  genuine- 
ness, more  especially  at  the  present  moment,  in  face  of 
the  denials  of  this  truth  by  Rationalists,  and  by  those 
“ who  take  up  themes  which  lie  outside  of  their  chosen 
studies,  or  with  which  they  are  not  profoundly  convers- 
ant,” among  them  figuring  no  less  a personage  than  the 
distinguished  English  historian  Fronde  ( Short  Essays 
on  Great  Subjects).  Now  what  does  I re  incus  say  of 
the  Gospels?  “We  have  not  received,”  he  says,  “the 
knowledge  of  the  way  of  our  salvation  by  any  others 
than  those  by  whom  the  Gospel  has  been  brought  to 
us;  which  Gospel  they  first  preached,  and  afterwards  by 
the  will  of  God  committed  to  writing,  that  it  might  be 
for  time  to  come  the  foundation  and  pillar  of  the  faith.” 
Here  follows  a declaration  that  the  first  Gospel  was 
written  among  the  Jews  by  Matthew ; the  second  by 
Mark,  a companion  of  Peter ; the  third  by  Luke,  a com- 
panion of  Paul;  and  the  fourth  by  John,  of  whom  he 
says,  “Afterwards  John,  the  disciple  of  the  Lord,  who 
also  leaned  upon  his  breast,  he  likewise  published  a gos- 
pel while  he  dwelt  in  Ephesus,  in  Asia.”  “Let  us  as- 
sume now  that  Irenaeus — between  whom  and  the  apos- 
tles there  is  only  one  intervening  link — was  an  honest 
man  and  an  intelligent  man ; in  short,  that  he  is  a com- 
petent witness.  At  the  time  when  he  knew  Polyearp, 
were  the  four  Gospels  extant  and  acknowledged  author- 
ities in  the  Church  ? We  will  here  confine  the  question 
to  the  Gospel  of  John  (q.  v.),  which  is  now  so  much  a 
topic  of  controversy.  Was  or  was  not  this  gospel  re- 
ceived as  the  production  of  him  whose  name  it  bears  by 
Polyearp  and  his  contemporaries  at  the  time  to  which 
Iron  tens,  in  his  graphic  reminiscence,  refers?  If  it  was 
thus  received — received  in  the  neighborhood  of  Ephe- 
sus. in  the  very  region  where  John  had  lived  to  so  ad- 
vanced an  age,  and  where  his  followers  and  acquain- 
tances survived— it  will  be  very  difficult  to  disprove  its 
genuineness.  But  if  it  was  not  thus  received,  when,  we 
ask,  can  it  be  supposed  to  have  first  seen  the  light? 
Who  contrived  a book  of  which  Polyearp  had  known 
nothing,  and  palmed  it  off  on  him  and  on  the  whole  cir- 
cle of  Johannean  disciples  and  churches  in  Asia?  llow 
is  it  that  I re  mens  knows  nothing  of  the  late  discovery 
or  promulgation  of  so  valuable  a book?  Why  does  he 
not  mention  the  momentous  fact — if,  indeed,  it  be  a fact 
— that  after  his  interviews  with  Polyearp  there  was 
found  somewhere,  or  put  forth  by  somebody,  this  price- 
less treasure?  It  is  obvious  that  Iremeus  would  have 
had  something  to  say  of  the  extraordinary  concealment 
and  final  appearance  of  this  Gospel  history  had  he  re- 
membered a time  or  known  of  a time  since  John’s  death 
when  this  Gospel  had  not.  been  a familiar  and  prized 
possession  of  the  Church.  This  testimony  of  Irenams 
is  a tough  piece  of  evidence.  Here  we  have  specific 
declarations  as  to  what  he  had  himself  seen  and  heard, 
"let  the  attempt  is  made  to  disparage  the  value  of  this 
testimony  on  the  ground  of  the  following  passage,  which 
stands  in  connection  with  his  statements  about  the  com- 
position of  the  several  gospels:  ‘Nor  can  there  be  more 


or  fewer  gospels  than  these.  For  as  there  are  four  re- 
gions of  the  world  in  which  we  live,  and  four  catholic 
spirits,  and  the  Church  is  spread  all  over  the  earth,  and 
the  Gospel  is  the  pillar  and  foundation  of  the  Church, 
and  the  spirit  of  life,  in  like  manner  was  it  fit  it  should 
have  four  pillars,  breathing  on  all  sides  incorrnption 
and  refreshing  mankind.  Whence  it  is  manifest  that 
the  Word,  the  former  of  all  things,  who  sits  upon  the 
cherubim  and  upholds  all  things,  having  appeared  to 
men,  has  given  us  a Gospel  of  a fourfold  character,  but 
joined  in  one  spirit.’  (Here  follows  a brief  characteri- 
zation of  the  several  gospels  in  their  relation  to  one  an- 
other.) That  this  is  a fanciful  (if  one  will,  a puerile) 
observation  there  is  no  reason  to  deny;  but  how  it  can 
in  the  least  invalidate  the  credibility  of  the  author’s 
testimony  on  a matter  of  fact  within  his  cognizance,  it  is 
impossible  to  .see.  If  these  analogies  had  exerted  any 
influence  in  determining  Irenaeus’s  acceptance  of  the 
four  gospels  of  the  canon,  the  case  would  be  different. 
But  Fronde  admits  that  such  was  not  the  fact.  He  ac- 
cepts the  Gospels  on  account  of  the  historical  proof  of 
their  genuineness,  as  he  repeatedly  affirms,  and  inde- 
pendently of  these  supposed  analogies.  It  is  the  estab- 
lished and  exclusive  authority  of  the  four  gospels  that 
sends  him  after  these  fancied  analogies  and  accounts  for 
the  suggestion  of  them.  The  suggestion  of  them,  there- 
fore, strengthens  instead  of  weakens  the  evidence  in  be- 
half of  the  canonical  evangelists,  because  it  shows  how 
firm  and  long-settled  must  have  been  the  recognition  of 
them  in  the  Church.  It  is  even  a hasty  inference  from 
such  a passage  that  the  author  was  intellectually  weak. 
If  this  inference  is  to  be  drawn  from  such  an  observa- 
tion, the  ablest  of  the  fathers,  as  Augustine,  must  be 
equally  condemned.  Men  who  are  not  deficient  in  abil- 
ity may  say  sometimes  rather  foolish  tilings.  . . . On 
the  whole,  Iremeus  is  distinguished  for  the  soundness 
and  clearness  of  his  understanding.  (See  Scliaff  in  the 
first  part  of  our  article.)  He  is  rather  averse  to  specu- 
lation, being  of  a pr  .ctical  turn.  There  is  hardly  one 
of  the  early  ecclesiastical  writers  who,  in  all  the  quali- 
ties that  made  up  a trustworthy  witness,  is  to  be  set  be- 
fore him.  There  is  no  reason  to  doubt  that,  in  his 
statements  concerning  the  origin  and  authority  of  the 
Gospels,  he  represents  the  Christians  of  his  time.  It  is 
not  the  sentiment  of  an  individual  merely,  but  the  state 
of  things,  the  general  judgment  of  the  Church,  which 
he  brings  before  us.  No  good  reason  can  be  given  for 
this  general,  exclusive  recognition  of  the  Gospels  now 
included  in  our  canon,  no  even  plausible  solution  of  the 
fact  can  be  rendered,  unless  it  be  granted  that  they  were 
really  handed  down  from  the  days  of  the  aposths,  and 
were  thus  known  to  embody  the  testimony  of  eye-wit- 
nesses and  ear-witnesses  of  the  events  which  they  re- 
cord. Had  Polyearp  known  nothing  of  John’s  Gospel 
— or,  knowing  of  it,  had  he  rejected  it — it  is  impossible 
that  Iremeus  and  his  contemporaries  should  have  been 
ignorant  of  the  fact.  It  is  proved  by  the  most  con- 
vincing array  of  circumstantial  evidence  that  Polyearp, 
a personal  acquaintance  of  John  the  Apostle,  an  honor- 
ed bishop  in  the  neighborhood  where  John  had  labored 
and  died,  considered  the  fourth  gospel  to  be  his  compo- 
sition" (l)r.  G.  P.  Fisher,  of  Yale  College,  in  the  Inde- 
pendent, Feb.  4,  1869;  comp,  the  reply  to  Dr.  Davidson 
[ Introd.  to  the  X.  Test.  Lond.  1868,  2 vols.  8vo],  in  the 
Brit,  and  For.  Er.  Iter.  Jan.  1869,  p.  4-8).  In  a simi- 
lar strain  argues  Mr.Westcott  (History  of  the  Xeio  Test. 
Canon):  “In  the  same  Church  where  Irenaeus  was  a 
presbyter— ‘ zealous  for  the  covenant  of  Christ’ — Photi- 
nus  was  bishop,  already  ninety  years  old.  Like  Poly- 
carp, he  was  associated  with  the  generation  of  St.John, 
and  must  have  been  born  before  the  books  of  the  N.  T. 
were  all  written.  And  how,  then,  can  it  be  supposed 
with  reason  that  forgeries  came  into  use  in  his  time, 
which  he  must  have  been  able  to  detect  by  his  own 
knowledge  ? that  they  were  received  without  suspicion 
or  reserve  in  the  church  over  which  he  presided?  It 
I is  possible  to  weaken  the  connection  of  facts  by  arbitrary 


1EEX.EUS 


G53 


IREXiEUS 


hypotheses ; but,  interpreted  according  to  their  natural 
meaning,  they  tell  of  a Church  united  by  its  head  with 
the  times  of  St.  John,  to  which  the  books  of  the  N.  T. 
furnished  the  unaffected  language  of  hope,  and  resigna- 
tion, and  triumph.  And  the  testimony  of  Iremeus  is 
the  testimony  of  the  Church.”  But  not  only  to  the  au- 
thenticity of  the  Gospels  does  Iremeus  bear  his  testimo- 
ny. lie  also  furnishes  conclusive  evidence  in  support 
of  other  N.-T.  books  which  have  been  questioned  (see 
Brit,  ami  For.  Kr.  Rev.  1869,  p.  7 sq.). 

11.  Canon  of  Scripture.  — Not  a little  surprising,  but 
agreeably  so,  it  must  be  to  the  Christian  of  the  present 
day  to  find  that  in  the  days  of  Iremeus,  even  when  the 
canon  of  Scripture  could  not  be  expected  to  have  been 
so  accurately  defined  as  it  afterwards  was,  we  tiud,  with 
the  exception  of  the  spurious  additions  to  Daniel,  found 
in  the  Septuagint,  and  the  books  of  Baruch,  quoted  un- 
der the  name  of  Jeremiah,  no  writings  of  the  O.  T.,  ac- 
knowledged as  forming  part  of  the  O.-T.  canon,  which 
Protestants  do  not  include  in  it  at  the  present  day. 
So  likewise  of  the  N.  T.,  the  only  book  not  now  accept- 
ed, but  to  which  Iremeus  credited  canonical  authority, 
is  the  “ Shepherd  of  Hernias.”  Altogether,  “ with  the 

most  inconsiderable  exceptions the  canon  of 

both  the  O.  and  N.  T.,  then  accepted  by  the  Church,  was 
coincident  and  conterminous  with  our  own.”  But  more 
than  this,  by  the  language  which  Iremeus  uses,  we  find 
the  Church  of  his  day  harmonizing  with  and  justifying 
the  very  highest  claims  that  have  ever  been  advanced 
in  support  of  the  inspired  authority  and  infallible  accu- 
racy of  the  canonical  writings.  The  utterance  which 
Iremeus  has  made  on  this  subject  Romanists  have  sought 
to  turn  to  account  in  their  assertions  of  the  authority 
of  tradition  as  co-ordinate  with  that  of  Scripture.  But 
though,  as  was  natural  in  such  an  early  writer,  Iremeus 
often  refers  to  the  apostolic  traditions  preserved  in  the 
churches,  he  never  ascribes  to  these  an  authority  inde- 
pendent of  Scripture. 

12.  Literature. — Beaven,  Life  of  Irenceus  (Lond.  1841) ; 
Schaff,  Irenaus,  in  Der  Deutsche,  Kirchenfreund,  vol.  v 
(Mercersb.  1852) ; Gervaise,  La  Vie  de  S.  1 rente  (Paris, 
1723,  2 vols.  8vo);  Stieren,  art.  “ Iremeus,”  in  Ersch  u. 
Gruber,  Eneyklop.  vol.  ii,  sec.  xxiii ; Massuet,  Disserta- 
tions in  Irencei  libros,  prefixed  to  his  edition  of  the  Op- 
era; Deyling,  I renevus,  evangelical  veritatis  confessor  ac 
testis  (Lips.  1721),  against  Massuet ; Ceillier,  Hist.gener. 
des  .4  u tears  sucres  et  Eccles.  i,  495  sq. ; Fabricius,  Bibl. 
Grcec.  vii,  75  sq.;  Ilnhringer,  Kirchengesch.  in  Biogra- 
phien,  vol.  i;  Holder,  Patrologie,  vol.  ii;  Ritter,  Gesch. 
der  Philos,  i,  345  sq. ; Duncker,  Des  heil.  Iren.  Christol.  i. 
Zusammenhange  m.  d.  theol.  utul  anthropol.  Grundlehren 
(largest ellt  (1843,  8vo);  Graul,  D.  christlich  Kirche  a.  d. 
Schwelle  tl.  Iren.  Zeitalters  (Lpz.  1860),  a very  valuable 
little  work  of  168  pages,  in  which  ‘‘the  position  of  Ire- 
naeus is  sketched  with  a bold  and  firm  hand;”  Schrockh, 
Kirchengesehichte , iii,  192  sq.;  .Schaff,  Church  History, 
vol.  i (see  Index);  Neander,  Church  History,  vol.  i (see 
Index);  Shedd,  History  of  Doctrines  (see  Index);  Har- 
rison, Whose  are  the  Fathers f (see  Index);  Augusti, 
Dogmengesch.  voL  i and  ii ; Banmgarten-Crusins,  Dog- 
mengesch.  (see  Index);  Bullet.  Thenlog.  1869,  Oct.  25,  p. 
319;  Rev.  de  deux  Mondes,  1865,  February  15,  art.  viii; 
Christian  Remembrancer,  July,  1853,  p.  226;  Herzog, 
Real- Encyklopa  lie,  vii,  46  sq.  (J.  H.  \Y.) 

Irenceus,  St.,  a Tuscan  martyr,  flourished  in  the 
second  half  of  the  3d  century.  But  very  little  is  known 
of  the  history  of  his  life.  He  suffered  martyrdom  dur- 
ing the  persecutions  under  the  emperor  Aurelius  (275), 
and  is  commemorated  in  the  Roman  Church  July  3. — 
Tillemont,  .1/ emoires  Eccles.  vol.  iv ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog. 
Generale,  xxv,  948. 

Irenaeus,  St.,  another  martyr,  was  bishop  of  Sir- 
mium  (now'  Sirmish,  a Hungarian  village),  his  native 
country,  at  the  beginning  of  the  4th  century.  Many 
inducements  were  offered  him  by  the  then  governor  of 
the  country,  Probns,  who,  no  doubt,  acted  under  instruc- 
tions from  the  emperors  Diocletian  and  Maximus,  to  re- 


nounce Christianity,  but,  all  proving  futile,  he  was  at 
last  beheaded,  after  having  been  subjected  to  various  tor- 
tures. Though  but  little  is  know'll  of  this  Iremeus’s  per- 
sonal history,  it  is  evident,  from  the  efforts  of  the  gov- 
ernor to  secure  his  adhesion  to  the  heathen  practices, 
that  he  was  a man  of  great  influence.  The  date  of  his 
death  is  not  accurately  known.  Some  think  it  to  be 
March  25,  the  day  on  which  his  death  is  commemora- 
ted by  Romanists;  others  put  it  April  6,  A.D.  304.  See 
Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generale,  xxv,  948 ; Ceillier,  Hist, 
des  ciut.  sacr.  iii,  27  ; Butler,  Lives  of  the  tiaints,  iii,  651 
sq. ; Real-Encyklop.f  d.  Kathol.  Deutschland,  v,  715  sq. 
(J.H.W.) 

Irenaeus,  bishop  of  Tvre,  flourished  in  the  first  half 
of  the  5th  century.  He  was  originally  a count  of  the 
empire,  and  first  took  part  in  ecclesiastical  affairs  at  the 
Council  of  Ephesus,  A.D.  431,  where  he  represented  the 
emperor  Theodosius  as  assistant  to  Candidius,  to  settle 
the  controversy  betwreen  Cyril  and  Nestorius,  and  their 
respective  followers.  Both  he  and  Candidius  favored 
Nestorius,  and,  failing  to  prevent  his  condemnation  at 
the  council,  did  their  utmost,  on  their  return  to  court,  to 
counteract  on  the  emperor’s  mind  the  influence  and  de- 
cision of  the  Cvrillians  against  Nestorius.  For  a time 
they  succeeded  well,  as  their  representations  “bore  on 
their  very  face  the  impress  of  truth.”  But  the  Cvrillian 
party  predominating,  and  John,  the  secretary  of  Cyril, 
appearing  himself  at  court  to  counteract  the  efforts  of 
Irenaeus  and  Candidius,  the  feeble  sovereign  was  soon 
turned  in  favor  of  the  Cvrillian  party,  and  Irenaeus  him- 
self was  banished  from  the  court  about  A.D.  435.  He 
at  once  betook  himself  to  his  friends,  the  Oriental  bish- 
ops, and  by  them  w'as  raised  to  the  bishopric  of  Tyre  in 
444.  The  emperor  now’  issued  an  edict  condemning  the 
Nestorians.  and,  in  addition,  it  w'as  ordered  that  Irenaeus 
should  be  deposed  from  the  bishopric,  and  deprived  of 
his  clerical  character.  In  448  the  sentence  was  finally 
executed.  After  his  retirement  Irenaeus  wrote  a history 
of  the  Nestorian  struggle,  under  the  title  of  Tragadia 
seu  Commentarii  de  rebus  in  Synodo  Ephesina  ac  in  Ori- 
■nte  gestis.  The  original,  which  was  written  in  Greek, 
is  lost,  and  only  parts  of  it  remain  to  us  in  a Latin  trans- 
lation published  by  Christian  Lupus,  under  the  inaccu- 
rate title  of  Variorum  Patrum  Epistolce  ad  Concilium 
Ephesinum  pertinentis  (Louv.  1682).  See  Mansi,  Sacr. 
Condi.  Nov.  Collect,  v,  417, 731 ; Tillemont,  Mem.  Eccles. 
xiv ; Cave,  Hist.  Lift.  sub.  ann.  444 ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog. 
Gen.  xxv,  949 ; Neander,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  468  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Irenaeus,  a pseudonym  for  the  celebrated  Church 
historian  Joiiann  Karl  Ludwig  Gieseler  (q.  v.). 

Irenaeus,  Christoph,  one  of  the  most  zealous  de- 
fendants of  the  doctrine  of  the  Flacians,  was  born  at 
Sehweidnitz,  near  the  middle  of  the  16tli  century.  First 
a deacon  at  Aschersleben,'  he  wras  afterwards  called  to 
Eisleben  as  regular  pastor,  and  finally  appointed  court 
preacher  at  Weimar.  Accused  of  favoring  the  view's  of 
Flacius,  a consistent  though  much  persecuted  follower 
of  Luther,  he  was,  with  other  prominent  preachers  guilty 
of  the  same  failing,  dismissed  from  his  position  in  1572. 
He.  now  removed  to  Austria,  w’here  he  published  in  1581 
a pamphlet  against  the  first  article  of  the  Concordien- 
formel,  under  the  title  of  Christoph  Jreneei  Examen  d. 
ersten  Artikels  u.d.  Wirbel-Geistes  i.  d.  neuen  Concordi- 
enbuch  von  der  Erbsiinde.  The  date  of  his  death  is  not 
known  to  us.  See  Aschbach,  Kirchen-Lex.  ii,  781.  See 
Flacius.  (J.I1.W.) 

Irenceus,  Falkovski,  a learned  Russian  priest, 
was  born  May  28, 1762.  He  acquired  a good  knowledge 
of  Hebrew,  Latin,  French,  and  German,  then  went  to 
Hungary  to  study  philosophy,  history,  and  mathematics. 
He  was  married,  hut  his  great  merits  caused  him  to 
be  appointed  bishop,  although,  according  to  the  gener- 
al rules  of  the  Greek  Church,  marriage  is  a bar  to  a 
candidate  for  this  office.  He  died  April  29, 1823.  Ire- 
nfeus  wrote  Chronologic  ecclesiastique  (Moscow,  1797) ; 
— Christiance,  orthodoxce  dogmatico-polemicce  Theologies 


IREXJEUS 


654 


IREXICAL  THEOLOGY 


Compendium  (Moscow,  1802,  2 vols.  8vo),  and  commen- 
taries on  Paul’s  Epistles  to  the  Romans  and  to  the  Ga- 
latians (Kief,  180G,  2 vols.  8vo).  _ jSee  Gagarin,  De  la 
Thtol. dans  VEglise  Russe  (Par.  1857),  p.  53.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Irenaeus,  Klementievski,  a very  able  Russian 
theologian,  was  born  at  Klementief  (Vladimir  district.) 
in  1753.  Of  his  early  history  hut  little  is  known  to  us. 
lie  enjoyed  the  reputation  of  a great  savant,  and  held 
the  bishopric  of  Tvar,  and,  later,  the  archbishopric  of 
pskoi;  and  died  at  St.  Petersburg  April  24,  1818.  Of 
course  lie  belonged  to  the  monastic  order  of  the  Russo- 
Greek  Church,  for,  as  is  well  known,  the  higher  ecclesi- 
astical olliees  of  Russia  are  accessible  only  to  monastic 
orders  (compare  Eckardt,  Modern  Russia).  Archbishop 
Iremeus  wrote  Commentaries  on  the  Twelve  minor  Proph- 
ets:— tit.  Paul's  Epistle  to  the  Romans  unci  to  the  He- 
brews ;—and  also  published  some  of  his  sermons,  deliv- 
ered before  the  royal  household  at  St.  Petersburg  (1794). 
He  likewise  translated  into  Russian  the  writings  of  sev- 
eral of  the  Church  fathers,  and  cardinal  Bellarmine’s 
Commentary  on  the  Psalms  (Moscow,  1807,  2 vols.  4to); 
and  two  other  works  on  aseetism  by  Bellarmine.  See 
Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  949.  (J.  H.  AV.) 

Irene  (E/pityq,  Peace),  empress  of  Constantinople, 
and  one  of  the  most  extraordinary,  though  corrupt  char- 
acters of  the  Byzantine  empire,  was  born  in  Athens 
about  A.I).  725.  An  orphan,  17  years  of  age,  without 
any  fortune  except  her  lieauty  and  talents,  she  excited 
the  admiration  of  the  then  reigning  emperor,  Leo  IV, 
and  in  A.I).  7G9  became  his  lawful  wife.  Her  love  for 
power,  it  is  said,  caused  her  to  commit  the  crime  of  mur- 
der, for  her  husband,  who  died  in  780,  is  generally  be- 
lieved to  have  been  poisoned  by  her.  During  his  reign 
she  had  acquired  not  only  the  love,  but  also  the  confi- 
dence of  the  emperor,  and  in  his  testament  he  declared 
her  “ empress  guardian  of  the  Roman  world,  and  of  their 
son  Constantine  VI,”  who  was,  at  the  decease  of  Leo  IV, 
only  ten  years  of  age.  Educated  in  the  worship  of  im- 
ages, she  was  herself  an  ardent  opponent  of  the  icono- 
clasts, who  held  sway  during  the  reign  of  her  husband, 
and  who,  even  at  one  time,  had  caused  her  banishment 
from  his  court  on  account  of  her  secret  worship  of  images, 
and  her  conspiracies  with  image-worshippers  against 
ieouoelasm.  “ But,  as  soon  as  she  reigned  in  her  own 
name  and  that  of  her  son,  Irene  most  seriously  under- 
took the  ruin  of  the  iconoclasts,  and  the  first  step  of 
her  future  persecution  was  a general  edict  for  liberty  of 
conscience.  In  the  restoration  of  the  monks,  a thou- 
sand images  were  exposed  to  public  veneration  ; a thou- 
sand legends  were  invented  of  their  sufferings  and  mira- 
cles. As  opportunities  occurred  by  death  or  removal, 
the  episcopal  seats  were  judicially  filled;  the  most  eager 
competitors  for  earthly  or  celestial  favor  anticipated  and 
flattered  the  judgment  of  their  sovereign;  and  the  pro- 
motion of  her  secretary,  Tarasi us,  gave  Irene  the  patri- 
arch of  Constantinople,  and  the  command  of  the  Ori- 
ental Church.”  But  the  decrees  of  a general  council 
could  only  be  repeated  effectually  by  a similar  assembly, 
and  to  this  end  she  convened  a council  of  bishops  at 
Constantinople,  A.I).  78(>.  By  this  time,  however,  the 
people  and  the  army  had  learned  to  abhor  the  worship 
of  images  in  place  of  the  true  God,  and  the  council  was 
opposed  bv  a mob,  assisted  by  the  troops,  and  even 
driven  from  the  capital.  This  by  no  means  intimidated 
Irene  in  her  marked  course.  She  had  determined  on 
the  reiutroduction  of  image-worship  and  the  extirpation 
of  all  iconoclasts,  and  well  did  her  zeal  for  the  restora- 
tion of  this  gross  superstition  deserve  to  be  rewarded  by 
the  Church  (Greek)  with  a saiutship  (which  she  still 
occupies  in  the  Greek  calendar).  A second  council  was 
convened  only  a year  after  the  first  had  been  broken  up, 
but  this  time  at  Nice.  ,l  No  more  than  18  days  were 
allowed  for  the  consummation  of  this  important  work; 
the  iconoclasts  appeared  not  as  judges,  but  as  criminals 
or  penitents;  the  seene  was  decorated  by  the  legates  of 
pope  Adrian  and  the  Eastern  patriarchs,  the  decrees 
were  framed  by  the  president  farasius,  and  ratified  by 


the  acclamations  and  subscriptions  of  350  bishops.  They 
unanimously  pronounced  that  the  worship  of  images  is 
agreeable  to  Scripture  and  reason,  to  the  fathers  and 
councils  of  the  Church ; but  they  hesitate  whether  that 
worship  be  relative  or  direct;  whether  the  godhead  and 
the  figure  of  Christ  be  entitled  to  the  same  mode  of  ado- 
ration. Of  this  second  Nieene  Council  the  acts  are  still 
extant;  a curious  monument  of  superstition  and  igno- 
rance, of  falsehood  and  folly”  (Gibbon,  Decline  and  Full 
of  the  Roman  Empire,  v,  37  sq.).  Meanwhile,  however, 
the  young  emperor  was  attaining  the  maturity  of  man- 
hood ; ‘‘the  maternal  yoke  became  more  grievous;  and 
he  listened  to  the  favorites  of  his  own  age,  who  shared 
his  pleasures,  and  were  ambitious  of  sharing  his  power.” 
But  Irene  was  by  no  means  ready  to  concede  to  her  son 
the  power  which  she  preferred  to  hold  in  her  own  hand, 
and,  ever  vigilant,  she  soon  penetrated  the  designs  of 
her  son.  As  a consequence,  there  arose  at  court  two 
factions.  The  young  and  the  vigorous  gathered  around 
the  heir  presumptive,  and  in  790  he  actually  succeeded 
in  assuming  himself  the  government  of  affairs.  As  Con- 
stantino AT  he  became  the  lawful  emperor  of  the  Ro- 
mans, and  Irene  was  dismissed  to  a life  of  solitude  and 
repose.  **  But  her  haughty  spirit  condescended  to  the 
arts  of  dissimulation  : she  flattered  the  bishops  and  eu- 
nuchs, revived  the  filial  tenderness  of  the  prince,  re- 
gained liis  confidence,  and  betrayed  his  credulity.  The 
character  of  Constantine  was  not  destitute  of  sense  or 
spirit;  but  his  education  had  been  studiously  neglected; 
and  the  ambitious  mother  now  exposed  to  the  publie 
censure  the  vices  which  she  herself  had  nourished,  and 
the  actions  which  she  herself  had  secretly  advised.” 
Meanwhile  a powerful  conspiracy  was  also  concocted 
against  Constantine,  and  only  reached  his  ears  when 
he  knew  it  to  be  impossible  for  him  to  successfully  re- 
sist. In  haste  he  fhd  from  the  capital.  But  his  own 
guards  even  had  been  bo  light  in  the  interests  of  Irene, 
and  the  (mperor  was  seized  by  them  on  the  Asiatic 
shore,  and  transported  back  to  Constantinople  to  the 
porphyry  apartment  of  the  palace  where  he  had  first 
seen  the  light.  “In  the  mind  of  Irene  ambition  had 
stifled  every  sentiment  of  humanity  and  nature;”  and 
it  was  decreed,  in  a bloody  council  which  she  had 
assembled,  that  Constantine  must  by  some  means  be 
forever  rendered  incapable  of  assuming  the  govern- 
ment himself.  AVhile  asleep  in  his  bed,  the  hirelings  of 
Irene  entered  the  room  of  the  prince  and  stabbed  their 
daggers  with  violence  and  precipitation  into  his  eyes, 
depriving  him  not  only  of  liis  eyesight,  but  rendering 
his  life  even  critical.  As  if  this  crime  were  in  itself  not 
sufficiently  great,  the  youth  was  even  deprived  of  his 
liberty  when  it  was  found  that  he  had  survived  the  fa- 
tal stroke,  and  confined  in  a dungeon,  where  he  was  left 
to  pine  away.  Thus  the  unnatural  mother,  guilty  of  a 
crime  unparalleled  in  the  history  of  crimes,  secured  for 
herself  the  Teins  of  government.  But  still  Irene  was 
not  free  from  anxieties.  Though  the  punishment  which 
her  crime  deserved  did  not  immediately  follow  the  bloody 
deed,  it  yet  came  surety.  Her  two  favorites,  Stauracius 
and  .Etius,  whom  she  had  raised,  enriched,  and  intrusted 
with  the  first  dignities  of  the  empire,  were  constantly 
embroiled  with  each  other,  and  their  jealousies  only 
ceased  with  the  death  of  the  former,  A.D.  800.  In  or- 
der to  secure  her  possession  of  the  throne,  she  sought 
a marriage  with  Charlemagne;  but  the  Frank  emperor 
had  evidently  no  relish  for  a woman  who  had  commit- 
ted so  many  crimes,  and  the  scheme  proved  abortive. 
Two  years  later,  her  treasurer,  Nicephoros,  rebelled 
against  her.  and,  suddenly  seizing  her  person,  banished 
her  to  the  isle  of  Lesbos,  where  she  was  forced  to  spin 
for  a livelihood.  Here  she  died  of  grief,  A.D.  803.  See 
Icoxoclasm.  (J.  H.AV.) 

Irenical  Theology  is  a term  (from  ti pi]  vp,  peace) 
used  to  designate  the  art  or  seienee  of  conciliating  any 
differences  which  arise  in  religion  and  in  the  Church 
from  one-sided  theories  or  misapprehension.  Making 
peace  implies  a previous  warfare,  hence  irenical  theology 


IRENICAL  THEOLOGY 


655 


is  closely  allied  to  polemics  (q.  v.'),  which, 'in  its  true 
character,  should  be  but  a struggle  for  peace.  For  the 
auvSta/xog  tiptjtnjg,  or  “bond  of  peace”  (Eph.iv,  3), 
embraces  all  Christians,  and  the  a\rj$tvttv  tv  aydiry, 
or  “speaking  the  truth  in  love”  (Eph.  iv,  15),  contains 
two  commandments  which  cannot  be  separated.  Hence 
we  find  in  the  Christian  Church,  from  her  earliest  days 
up  to  our  own  times,  attempts  to  secure  peace  and  unity 
by  conciliating  all  differences  and  by  reuniting  those 
who  had  separated  from  each  other.  Such  was  partic- 
ularly the  case  when  schism  occurred  first  between  the 
Latin  and  the  Greek  churches,  then  between  the  Rom- 
ish  and  the  Protestant,  and,  again,  between  the  Luther- 
an and  the  Reformed.  Irenical  attempts  accompanied 
each  of  these  separations,  as  is  evinced  by  the  large 
number  of  works  known  as  Irenicum,  Unio , Concordia , 
etc.  But  the  labor  of  dogmatical  pc  ace-makers,  or,  as 
some  call  them,  the  angels  of  peace  upon  earth,  is  so 
profoundly,  so  quietly,  and  unostentatiously  done,  that 
the  general  mass  of  professional  theologians  hardly  be- 
come aware  of  it.  As  a regular  science,  however,  or 
systematic  theory,  these  efforts  at  peaceful  agreement 
on  the  points  of  difference  could  only  spring  from  a well 
defined  and  developed  state  of  Christian  doctrine,  and 
Christian  life  and  its  theory,  lienee  irenical  theology 
is  comparatively  modem,  and  its  system  but  little  de- 
veloped as  yet.  No  one  can  deny  that  in  the  N.  T.,  in 
the  works  of  the  apologists,  apostles,  and  fathers,  and 
down  through  a long  series  of  ecclesiastical  writings, 
and  particularly  in  those  of  the  mystics  and  pious  as- 
cetics, there  are  many  pacificatory  elements  which 
might  serve  as  material  for  an  irenical  system.  After 
the  Reformation  we  find  such  fragments  side  by  side 
with  the  most  violent  polemical  works.  We  might 
mention  in  this  connection  Erasmus  ( I)e  amabih  eccle- 
sice  concordat),  George  Wicel,  II.  Cassander,  Fr.  Junius, 
besides  Mclancthon,  Martin  Bncer,  etc.  it  was  against 
one  of  these  peace-makers,  David  Pariens  (f  1(515)  that 
Leonhard  Ilutter  wrote  his  Irenicum  rere  Christianum 
(2d  edit.  Rostock,  1G19),  in  which,  however,  he  admits 
that  the  attainment  of  ultimate  unity  and  peace  is  prob- 
lematical. Among  the  most  active  in  the  cause  of 
union  we  find,  in  the  Reformed  Church,  Hugo  Grotius 
(f  1045),  and,  in  the  Lutheran.  George  Calixtus  (f  1G5(5). 
The  Jesuits,  however,  managed  to  interfere  in  all  these 
attempts,  and  to  render  them  abortive  by  proposing  so- 
phistical and  impossible  bases  of  union.  On  the  other 
hand,  untimely  propositions  on  both  sides,  dictated 
cither  by  fear  or  worldly  motives,  threw  discredit  on 
the  cause  itself.  It  was  now  decried  as  Habelianism, 
Samaritanism,  neutralism,  syncretism,  etc.  Still  there 
continued  to  appear  persons  who  believed  in  the  pos- 
sibility of  union,  and  labored  zealously  for  it.  Among 
them  were  John  Fabricius  of  Hclmstadt  (f  1729),  a dis- 
ciple of  Calixtus,  and  the  Scotch  divine,  John  Dury,  or 
Duneus  (1G30-78),  who,  knowing  the  relation  between 
the  Protestant  confessions,  labored  with  a truly  Chris- 
tian spirit  to  secure  this  end.  Ilis  principal  work,  Iren- 
icoram  tractntuum  Prodromus  (Amstelod.  1GG2,  8vo),  is 
in  itself  a sort  of  irenical  theory,  as  it  treats  of  the  man- 
ner of  removing  the  obstacles  to  union,  of  the  grounds 
sufficient  for  evangelical  unity,  of  the  causes  and  means 
of  religions  reconciliation,  and  of  the  true  method  of  ac- 
complishing that  result.  Similar  works,  like  the  via> 
ad  parent,  etc.,  appeared  in  the  Reformed  Church,  and 
also,  though  not  so  numerously,  in  the  Lutheran.  Among 
the  Romanists  even,  we  find  some  earnest  peace-makers, 
but  their  efforts  met  with  little  success.  Among  the 
most  prominent  was  the  Spaniard,  Christopher  Roja  de 
Bpinola.  appointed  bishop  in  Austria  in  1GG8;  he  made 
great  efforts  towards  reconciling  the  churches,  and  was 
countenanced  by  the  emperor  Leopold  and  pope  Inno- 
cent XI,  but  was  afterwards  disowned  by  the  latter,  and 
Spener  himself  was  obliged  to  caution  all  against  hold- 
ing secret  intercourse  with  him.  He  gained  to  his 
views  the  Lutheran  abbot  Molanus,  of  Loccnm,  in  Han- 
over, who,  in  turn,  found  a zealous  and  distinguished 


IRENICAL  THEOLOGY 

advocate  of  unity  in  Leibnitz.  Correspondence  was  be> 
gun  with  Bossuct  on  this  subject,  ami  Leibnitz  wrote 
a very  ingenious  Systema  Theoloyitv,  which  was  only 
published  iu  1819,  at.  Paris,  and  afterwards  in  German 
by  the  Roman  Catholic  Lorenz  Duller  (Mayence,  1820), 
with  a preface,  in  which  he  asserts  that  Leibnitz  was  at 
heart  a Romanist.  This  brought  an  answer  of  G.  K, 
Schulze,  Ucber  die  Entdeckuny  das  Leibnitz  tin  Katholik 
gewesen  (Gotting.  1827).  The  negotiations  in  the  mean 
time  proved  unsuccessful,  and  matters  remained  un- 
changed; but  still  the  irenical  tendency  was  clearly 
gaining  ground.  Soon  after  the  impulse  towards  a liv- 
ing faith  given  by  Spener  and  his  school,  there  appeared 
a large  number  of  works  for  ami  against  the  union  of 
■ the  Protestant  churches,  which  finally  led,  in  Prussia, 

I to  some  practical  results.  These,  however,  we  shall  not 
dwell  upon  here,  our  present  object  being  only  to  show 
J the  development  of  irenical  theology.  John  Christo- 
pher Kocher  (f  1772)  published  & Bibliotheca  theologian 
| irenicce  (Jena?,  17G4),  which,  though  short,  is  valuable. 

lie  defines  irenical  theology  (§  3)  as  being  “that  part 
: of  controversial  theology  which  inquires  into  the  import 
of  such  doctrines  and  religious  ceremonies  as  either 
| whole  ecclesiastical  bodies  or  personal  members  contend 
about,  with  a view  to  preserve  the  peace  and  unity  of 
the  Church  of  God,  or  to  restore  them  to  the  position 
' which  they  first  held.”  The  tendency  to  unity  now 
giadually  became  transformed  into  a general  toleration; 

' nothing  was  done  towards  the  actual  settlement  of  the 
differences,  though  much  preparation  was  made  in  that 
i direction  by  the  humanistic  tendency,  and  the  spirit  of 
I inquiry  into  all  religions  systems.  (On  the  literature 
of  the  subject  in  that  period,  see  Winer,  Ilandbudi  der 
I thcol.  IAteruturg . i,  356-GO.)  Among  the  works  which 
advocated  a union  of  the  churches,  but  rather  from  a 
j practical  than  a scientific  point  of  view,  are  to  be  men- 
tioned first  those  of  Joseph  Planck  (f  1833)  and  Mar- 
! heineke  (f  1845);  then  those  of  J.  A.  Stark  (f  181G); 
Theoduls  Gastmahl,  the  crypto  - catholic  Protestant 
J court -preacher  of  Darmstadt  (7  th  edit.  1828,  8vo) ; the 
j Christliche  Ilcnotikon  of  Dr.  C.  F.  Bohme  (Halle,  1827); 
j and  ldeen  it.  d.  innern  Zusummenhang  v.  Glanbensreini- 
I gang  n.  Glaubenseiniyung  in  d.  Evangel.  Kirchc,  by  Dan- 
I iel  of  Cologne  (Leipzig,  1823). 

I In  Germany,  Marheiuckc,  who,  in  imitation  of 
Planck,  transformed  symbolics  into  a comparison  of  the 
j different  Christian  confessions,  greatly  advanced  the 
I real  scientific  character  of  irenical  theology,  partly  as 
! the  general  union  of  the  churches,  partly  as  that  of  the 
I different  confessions.  The  same  spirit,  though  joined 
to  much  partiality,  pervades  also  the  Roman  Catholic 
Symbolik  of  Adam  M older,  and  in  a more  liberal  tone 
! Leopold  Schmid’s  Geist  dcs  Katholicismns  oder  Grnndlc- 
\gung  der  christlichen  Ircnik  (1848).  On  the  contrary, 
' such  works  as  Dr.  F.  A.  Staudenmaicr’s  (f  185G)  Zum 
\ religibscn  Fneden  d.Zukunft  (184G,  2 vols.  8vo)  disfigure 
Protestantism  to  such  an  extent,  and  are  written  in  so 
! illiberal  a tone,  that,  if  such  were  more  abundant,  they 
j would  kindle  again  the  fiercest  strife.  Yet  the  scientific 
| basis  of  religious  and  denominational  peace  has  made 
j much  progress  since  Schleiermachcr  gave  a scientific 
| development  to  polemics  and  apologetics.  This  is  espe- 
cially evident  in  J.  Peter  Lange’s  Christliche  Bagnio tik, 
the  third  part  of  which  (Heidelberg,  1852)  contains  a 
clever  sketch  of  practical  dogmatics,  or  of  polemics  and 
irenical  theology.  According  to  him,  it  is  the  province 
of  irenical  theology  to  bring  out  of  the  different  relig- 
ious opinions  those  which  coincide  with  the  Christian 
dogma,  to  free  them  from  all  errors  and  excesses,  and  to 
bring  them  into  the  life  and  consciousness  of  the  Church, 
or  to  submit  them  to  the  Christian  dogmas  (§  5).  It 
has  therefore  to  search  out  the  hidden  efforts  of  truth  in 
all  religious  manifestations.  All  distortions  of  truth  are 
evidences  of  the  existence  of  an  original  truth.  Irenical 
theology  is  again  divided  into  elementary,  i.  c.  an  expo- 
sition of  the  struggles  of  truth  and  of  the  means  of  as- 
sisting it ; and  concrete,  i.  e.  an  exposition  of  the  organic 


IEIIA-HERES 


656 


IR-IIA-IIERES 


Iteration  and  development  of  truth  in  humanity  until 
the  completion  of  the  Church.  Sin,  however,  will  al- 
ways remain  an  obstacle  to  absolute  peace  till  it  is  linal- 
]y  abolished  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  For  this  we  must 
prepare  ourselves  by  adhering  to  Meldeiiius’s  maxim : 
“In  necessariis  unitas,  in  non  necessariis  libertas,  in 
utrisque  caritas.”  See  Dr.  F.  J.  Litcke,  Leber  d.  Alter 
dieses  hircMichen  Friedensspruches  (Gdtt.  1850). — Her- 
zog, Real-Kncyklopadie,  vii,  GO ; Ersch  u.  Gruber’s  Ency- 
Idopiidie,  ii,  23. 

Ir-lia-Heres,  in  the  A.  Vers.  “The  City  of  De- 
strection”  (C*nn  Jr-ha-he'res,v.  r.  Ir-ka-che'- 
res,  ; Sept.  ’A\eptc,  Vulg.  Ciritus  Solis), 

the  name  or  appellation  of  a city  in  Egypt,  mentioned 
only  in  Isa.  xix,  18.  The  reading  C“>n,  litres,  is  that 
of  most  MSS.,  the  Svr.,  Aq.,  and  Theod. , the  other 
reading,  C^H,  Cheres,  is  supported  by  the  Sept.,  but 
only  in  form,  by  Symm.,  who  has  vn!A<r  i)\tov,  and  the 
Yuig.  Gesenius  ( Thesaur . p.  391,  a ; 522)  prefers  the 
latter  reading.  There  are  various  explanations;  we 
shall  first  take  those  that  treat  it  as  a proper  name,  then 
those  that  suppose  it  to  be  an  appellation  used  by  the 
prophet  to  denote  the  future  of  the  city. 

1.  “ The  city  of  the  Sun,”  a translation  of  the  Egyp- 

tian sacred  name  of  Heliopolis,  generally  called  in  the 
Bible  On,  the  Hebrew  form  of  its  civil  name  An  [see 
On],  anil  once  Beth-shemesh,  “the  house  of  the  sun” 
(Jer.  xliii,  13),  a more  literal  translation  than  this  sup- 
posed one  of  the  sacred  name.  .See  Betii-shemesii. 
This  explanation,  however,  is  highly  improbable,  for 
we  find  elsewhere  both  the  sacred  and  the  civil  names 
of  Heliopolis,  so  that  a third  name,  merely  a variety  of 
the  Hebrew  rendering  of  the  sacred  name,  is  very  un- 
likely. The  name  Beth-shemesh  is,  moreover,  a more 
literal  translation  in  its  first  word  of  the  Egyptian  name 
than  this  supposed  one.  It  may  be  remarked,  however, 
as  to  the  last  part  of  the  word,  that  one  of  the  towns  in 
Palestine  called  Beth-shemesh,  a town  of  the  Levites  on 
the  borders  of  Judah  anil  Dan,  was  not  far  from  a Mount 
Heres,  (Jmlg.  i,  35),  so  that  the  two  names, 

as  applied  to  the  sun  as  an  object  of  worship,  might 
probably  be  interchangeable.  See  Heres. 

2.  “ The  city  litres,”  a transcription  in  the  last  part 
of  the  word  of  the  Egyptian  sacred  name  of  Heliopolis, 
II.v-ka,  “the  abode  (liter.  “ house”)  of  the  sun.”  This 
explanation,  however,  woidtl  necessitate  the  omission  of 
the  article. 

3.  Jerome  supposes  01PI  to  be  equivalent  to 

“a  potsherd,”  and  to  be  a name  of  the  town  called  by 
the  Greeks  Ostracine,  ’OornaKivii  (“earthen”).  Akin 
with  this  is  the  view  of  others  (see  Alexander  ad  loe.), 
who  suppose  that  reference  is  made  to  Tahpanes,  the 
brick-kilns  of  which  are  mentioned  by  Jeremiah  (xliii, 
9). 

4.  “A  city  preserved, ” meaning  that  one  of  the  five 
cities  mentioned  should  be  preserved.  Gesenius,  who 
proposes  this  construction,  if  the  last  half  of  the  word 
be  not  part  of  the  name  of  the  place,  compares  the  Ar- 
abic char u.v i,  “ he  guarded,  kept,  preserved,”  etc.  It 
may  be  remarked  that  the  word  Heres  or  Hues,  in  an- 
cient Egyptian,  probably  signifies  “a  guardian.”  This 
rendering  of  Gesenius  is,  however,  merely  conjectural, 
and  has  hardly  been  adopted  by  any  other  leading  in- 
terpreter. 

5.  The  ordinary  rendering,  “or  city  destroyed,”  lit.  “a 
city  of  destruction;"  in  the  A.V.“  the  city  of  destruction,” 
meaning  that  one  of  the  five  cities  mentioned  should  be 
destroyed,  according  to  Isaiah’s  idiom.  Some  maintain 
that  the  prophet  refers  to  live  great  and  noted  cities  of 
Egypt  when  he  says,  “In  that  day  shall  five  cities  in 
the  land  of  Egypt  speak  the  language  of  Canaan but 
they  cannot  agree  as  to  what  these  cities  are.  Others 
suppose  that  by  fee  a round  number  is  meant;  while 
others  think  that  some  proportional  number  is  referred 
to— five  out  of  20,000,  or  live  out  of  1000.  Calvin  inter- 


prets the  passage  as  meaning  five  out  of  six— -five  pro- 
fessing the  true  religion,  and  one  rejecting  it ; and  that 
one  is  hence  called  “ City  of  destruction,”  which  is  not 
its  proper  name,  but  a description  indicative  of  its  doom. 
Egypt  and  Ethiopia  were  then  either  under  a joint  rule 
or  under  an  Ethiopian  sovereign.  We  can,  therefore, 
understand  the  connection  of  the  three  subjects  com- 
prised in  this  and  the  adjoining  chapters.  Chap,  xviii 
is  a prophecy  against  the  Ethiopians,  xix  is  the  Burden 
of  Egypt,  and  xx,  delivered  in  the  year  of  the  capture 
of  Ashdoil  by  Tartan,  the  general  of  Sargon.  predicts 
the  leading  captive  of  the  Egyptians  and  Ethiopians, 
probably  the  garrison  of  that  great  stronghold,  as  a 
warning  to  the  Israelites  who  trusted  in  them  for  aid. 
Chap,  xviii  ends  with  an  indication  of  the  time  to  which 
it  refers,  speaking  of  the  Ethiopians — as  we  understand 
the  passage — as  sending  “a  present”  “to  the  place  of 
the  name  of  the  Lord  of  hosts,  the  Mount  Zion”  (ver.  7). 
If  this  be  taken  in  a proper  and  not  a tropical  sense,  it 
w’ould  refer  to  the  conversion  of  Ethiopians  by  the 
preaching  of  the  law7  while  the  Temple  yet  stood.  That 
such  had  been  the  case,  before  the  Gospel  -was  preached 
is  evident  from  the  instance  of  the  eunuch  of  queen 
Candace,  whom  Philip  met  on  his  return  homeward  from 
worshipping  at  Jerusalem,  and  converted  to  Christianity 
(Acts  viii,  26-39).  The  Burden  of  Egypt  seems  to  point 
to  the  times  of  the  Persian  and  Greek  dominions  over 
that  country.  The  civil  war  agrees  with  the  troubles 
of  the  Dodeearch  v,  then  we  read  of  a time  of  bitter  op- 
pression by  “ a cruel  lord  and  [or  “ even”]  a fierce  king,” 
probably  pointing  to  the  Persian  conquests  anil  rule, 
and  specially  to  Cambyscs,  or  Cambyses  and  Ochus,  and 
then  of  the  drying  of  the  sea  (the  Eed  Sea;  compare  xi, 
15),  and  the  river,  and  canals,  of  the  destruction  of  the 
water-plants,  and  of  the  misery7  of  the  fishers  and  work- 
ers in  linen.  The  princes  and  counsellors  are  to  lose 
their  wisdom  and  the  people  to  be  filled  with  fear,  all 
which  calamities  seem  to  have  begun  in  the  desolation 
of  the  Persian  rule.  It  is  not  easy7  to  understand  what 
follows  as  to  the  dread  of  the  lsmd  of  Judah  which  the 
Egyptians  should  feel,  immediately7  preceding  the  men- 
tion of  the  subject  of  the  article:  “In  that  day  shall 
five  cities  in  the  land  of  Egy7pt  speak  the  language  of 
Canaan,  and  swear  to  the  Lord  of  hosts;  one  shall  be 
called  Ir-ha-lieres.  In  that  day7  shall  there  be  an  altar 
to  the  Lord  in  the  midst  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  a 
pillar  at  the  border  thereof  to  the  Lord.  And  it  shall 
be  for  a sign  and  for  a witness  unto  the  Lord  of  hosts  in 
! the  land  of  Egypt ; for  they  shall  cry7  unto  the  Lord  be- 
cause of  the  oppressors,  and  he  shall  send  them  a sav- 
iour, and  a great  one,  and  he  shall  deliver  them”  (xix, 
18-20).  The  partial  or  entire  conversion  of  Egypt  is 
prophesied  in  the  next  two  verses  (21,  22).  The  time 
of  the  Greek  dominion,  following  the  Persian  rule,  may 
here  be  pointed  to.  There  was  then  a great  influx  of 
Jew'ish  settlers,  and  as  we  know7  of  a Jewish  town,  Onion, 
and  a great  Jewish  population  at  Alexandria,  we  may 
suppose  that  there  were  other  large  settlements.  These 
would  “speak  the  language  of  Canaan,”  at  first  literal- 
ly7, afterwards  in  their  retaining  the  religion  and  cus- 
toms of  their  fathers.  The  altar  would  well  correspond 
to  the  temple  built  by7  Onias;  the  pillar,  to  the  syna- 
gogue of  Alexandria,  the  latter  on  the  northern  and 
western  borders  of  Egypt.  In  this  case  Alexander  would 
be  the  deliverer.  We  do  not  know,  however,  that  at 
this  period  there  was  any  recognition  of  the  true  God 
on  the  part  of  the  Egyptians.  If  the  prophecy7  is  to  be 
understood  in  a proper  sense,  w7e  can,  however,  see  no 
other  time  to  which  it  applies,  and  must  suppose  that 
Ir-ha-heres  was  one  of  the  cities  partly7  or  wholly7  in- 
habited by7  the  Jews  in  Egypt : of  these,  Onion  w7as  the 
most  important,  anil  to  it  the  rendering,  “One  shall  be 
called  a city  of  destruction,”  would  apply7,  since  it  was 
destroyed  by7  Titus,  while  Alexandria,  and  perhaps  the 
( other  cities,  y7et  stand.  If  the  prophecy7  is  to  be  taken 
tropically,  the  best  reading  and  rendering  are  matters 
I of  verbal  criticism.— Smith ; Kitto.  See  Isaiah. 


657 


IRON 


IR-HAM-MELACH 


Ir-ham-Melach.  (r&»n  ‘V’S,  city  0/  the  salt,  so 
called  prob.  from  the  salt  rocks  still  found  in  that  vicin- 
ity; Sept. )'/  7roAi£  7wi'  «X<3v,Vulg.  etWfcts  Autli. 
Vers.  “City  of  Salt”),  a city  in  the  Desert  of  Judah, 
mentioned  between  Nibslian  and  En-gedi  (Josh,  xv,  62) ; 
probably  situated  near  the  south-western  part  of  the 
Dead  Sea.  Compare  the  “ Valley  of  Salt”  (2  Sam.  viii, 
13  ; Psa.  lx,  2). 

Ir-liat -Temarim  city  of  the 

palms , so  called  prob.  from  a palm  grove  in  its  neigh- 
borhood ; Sept.  tto\iq  (potiniaov,  or  ?)  tt6\iq  rw  tyoivi- 
kuv,  Vulg.  eiritas  palmarum,  Auth.  Vers.  “ city  of  palm- 
trees”),  a place  near  or  identical  with  Jericho  (Deut. 
xxxiv,  3;  Judg.  i,  16;  iii,  13;  2 Chrou.  xxviii,  15), 
which  now,  however,  is  utterly  destitute  of  palm-trees. 

I'ri  (Ileb.  Iri',  “’'VI?,  citizen;  Sept.  O opt,  Vulg. 
Urai),  the  last-named  of  the  five  sons  of  Bela,  son  of 
Benjamin  (1  Chron.  vii,  7).  B.C.  between  1856  and 
1658.  See  In. 

IP  I also  appears  in  the  A.  Vers,  of  the  Apocrypha  (1 
Esdr.  viii,  62)  as  tne  name  (Obpia  v.  r.  0 vpi,  Vulg. 
Jorus)  of  the  father  of  the  priest  Marmoth ; evidently 
the  Uriah  (q.  v.)  of  Ezra  viii,  33. 

Iri'jah  (Ileb.  Yiriyah',  seen  by  Jehovah; 

Sept,  yiapovtag,  Vulg.  Jerias),  son  of  Shelemiah,  and  a 
captain  of  the  ward  at  the  gate  of  Benjamin,  who  ar- 
rested the  prophet  Jeremiah  on  the  pretenee  that  he 
was  deserting  to  the  Chaldieans  (Jer.  xxxvii,  13,  14). 
B.C.  589. 

Irish  Church.  See  Ireland. 

Irmensau’l,  a statue  of  unknown  form  and  signifi- 
cance, which  was  erected  at  Eresberge,  in  Ilessen  or 
Westphalia,  and  worshipped  by  the  ancient  Saxons.  In 
772,  Charlemagne,  having  conquered  the  country  and 
brought  the  people  under  subjection,  destroyed  it,  to 
discontinue  the  idolatrous  worship.  It  is  said  that  he 
found  in  the  inside  a great  amount  of  gold  and  silver. 
In  the  cathedral  of  Ilildesheim  they  show  a column  of 
green  marble  which  is  claimed  to  be  the  column  of  Ir- 
mensaul.  See  Grimm,  Irmenstrasse  u.  Irmensaule  (Vien- 
na, 1815) ; Von  der  Hagen,  Irmin,  seine  Saule  u.  s.  Wege 
(Bresl.  1817). — Pierer,  Univ.  Lex.  ix,  66.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Ir-na'hash  [many  Ir'nahash ] (Heb.  Ir-Xachash', 

n3  “Pa*,  serpent  city;  Sept.  7ro\ig  Nat7t,’? Vulg.  urbs 
Naas,  Auth.  Vers,  margin,  “city  of  Nahash”),  a place 
founded  (rebuilt)  by  Tehinnah,  the  son  of  Eshton,  of 
the  tribe  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  iv,  12).  Schwarz  ( Palest . 
p.  116)  thinks  it  the  present  Dir-Nachas,  one  mile  east 
of  Beth-Jibrin ; prob.  the  same  marked  (perh.  inaccu- 
rately) Dar-IIakhas  on  Zimmerman’s  map,  a short  dis- 
tance north-east  of  Beit-Jibrin.  Van  de  Velde  likewise 
identities  it  with  “ Beir-Xakhaz,  a village  with  ancient 
remains  cast  of  Beit-Jibrin”  (Memoir,  p.  322).  See 
Nahash. 

Iron  faf^jbarzel' ; Chald.btP  3,  parzeV;  Gr.  cilhq- 
pog,  Lat.  ferrum),  There  is  not  much  room  to  doubt 
the  identity  of  the  metal  denoted  by  the  above  terms. 
Tubal-Cain  is  the  frst-mentioned  smith,  “a  forger  of  ev- 
ery instrument  of  iron”  (Gen.  iv,  22).  As  this  metal  is 
rarely  found  in  its  native  state,  but  generally  in  combi- 
nation with  oxygen,  the  knowledge  of  the  art  of  forging 
it,  which  is  attributed  to  Tubal-Cain,  argues  an  acquaint- 
ance with  the  difficulties  that  attend  the  smelting  of 
this  metal.  Iron  melts  at  a temperature  of  about  3000° 
Fahrenheit,  and  to  produce  this  heat  large  furnaces  sup- 
plied by  a strong  blast  of  air  are  necessary.  But,  how- 
ever difficult  it  may  be  to  imagine  a knowledge  of  such 
appliances  at  so  early  a period,  it  is  perfectly  certain 
that  the  use  of  iron  is  of  extreme  antiquity,  and  that 
therefore  some  means  of  overcoming  the  obstacles  in 
question  must  have  been  discovered.  What  the  process 
may  have  been  is  left  entirely  to  conjecture;  a method 
is  employed  by  the  natives  of  India,  extremely  simple 
and  of  great  antiquity,  which,  though  rude,  is  very  effee- 
IV.— Tt 


I tive,  and  suggests  the  possibility  of  similar  knowledge 
in  an  early  stage  of  civilization  (Ure,  Diet.  Arts  and 
I Sciences,  s.  v.  Steel).  The  smelting  furnaces  of  /Etlia- 
! lia,  described  by  Diodorus  (v,  13),  remains  of  which 
still  exist  in  that  country,  correspond  roughly  with  the 
modern  bloomeries  (Napier,  Metallurgy  of  the  Bible  p. 
140).  Malleable  iron  was  in  common  use,  but  it  is 
doubtful  whether  the  ancients  were  acquainted  with 
cast-iron.  See  Metal. 

The  mineral  wealth  of  Canaan  is  indicated  by  describ- 
ing it  as  “ a land  whose  stones  are  iron”  (Deut.  viii,  9),  a 
passage  from  which  it  would  seem  that  in  ancient  times 
it  was  a plentiful  production  of  that  vicinity  (compare 
Job  xxviii,  2),  as  it  is  still  in  Syria,  especially  in  the  re- 
gion of  Lebanon  (Volney’s  Trav.  i,  233).  There  appear 
to  have  been  furnaces  for  smelting  at  an  early  period  in 
Egypt  (Deut.  iv,  20 ; comp.  Hengstenberg,  M os.  v.  A eg. 
p.  19).  Winer,  indeed  (Realm,  s.  v.  Eisen),  understands 
that  the  basalt  which  predominates  in  the  Ilauran 
(Burckhardt,  ii,  637)  is  the  material  of  which  Og’s  bed- 
stead (Deut.  iii,  11)  was  made,  as  it  contains  a large 
percentage  of  iron.  But  this  is  doubtful.  Pliny  (xxxvi, 
11),  who  is  quoted  as  an  authority,  says,  indeed,  that 
basalt  is  “ferrei  eoloris  atqne  duritije,”  but  does  not  hint 
that  iron  was  ever  extracted  from  it.  The  book  of  Job 
contains  passages  which  indicate  that  iron  was  a metal 
well  known.  Of  the  manner  of  procuring  it,  we  learn 
that  “ iron  is  taken  from  dust”  (xxviii,  2).  Iron  was  pre- 
pared in  abundance  by  David  for  the  building  of  the 
Temple  (l  Chron.  xxii,3),  to  the  amount  of  one  hundred 
thousand  talents  (1  Chron.  xxix,  7),  or,  rather,  “ with- 
out weight”  (l  Chron.  xxii,  14).  Working  in  iron  was 
considered  a calling  (2  Chron.  ii,  7).  See  Smith.  In 
! Eeclus.  xxxviii,  28,  we  have  a picture  of  the  interior  of 
an  iron-smith’s  (Isa.  xliv,  12)  workshop : the  smith, 
parehed  with  the  smoke  and  heat  of  the  furnace,  sitting 
beside  his  anvil,  and  contemplating  the  unwrought  iron, 
his  ears  deafened  with  the  din  of  the  heavy  hammer, 
his  eyes  fixed  on  his  model,  and  never  sleeping  till  he 
has  accomplished  his  task.  The  superior  hardness  and 
strength  of  iron  above  all  other  substances  is  alluded  to 
in  Dan.  ii,  40;  its  exceeding  utility,  in  Sir.  xxxix,  31. 
It  was  found  among  the  Midianites  (Numb,  xxxi,  22), 
and  was  part  of  the  wealth  distributed  among  the  tribes 
at  their  location  in  the  land  (Josh,  xxii,  8). 

The  market  of  Tyre  was  supplied  with  bright  or  pol- 
ished iron  by  the  merchants  of  Dan  and  Javan  (Ezek. 
xxvii,  19).  Some,  as  the  Sept,  and  Vulg.,  render  this 
“wrought  iron:”  so  De  Wette  “geschmiedetes  Eisen.” 
The  Targum  has  “ bars  of  iron,”  which  would  correspond 
with  the  stricture e of  Pliny  (xxxiv,  41).  But  Kimchi 
(Lex.  s.  v.)  expounds  P Vii  S’,  ’ dshoth , as  “pure  and  pol- 
ished” ( = Span,  acero,  steel),  in  which  he  is  supported 
by  R.  Sol.  Parehon,  and  by  Ben-Zeb,  who  gives  “ gliinz- 
end”  as  the  equivalent  (comp,  the  Homeric  aiOtnv  oitbj- 
pog,  II.  vii,  473).  If  the  Javan  alluded  to  were  Greece, 
and  not,  as  Bochart  (Phaleg,  ii,  21)  seems  to  think,  some 
place  in  Arabia,  there  might  be  reference  to  the  iron 
mines  of  Macedonia,  spoken  of  in  the  decree  of  ..Emilius 
Paulus  (Livy,  xlv,  29) ; but  Bochart  urges,  as  a very 
strong  argument  in  support  of  his  theory,  that,  at  the 
time  of  Ezekiel’s  prophecy,  the  Tyrians  did  not.  depend 
upon  Greece  for  a supply  of  eassia  and  cinnamon,  which 
are  associated  with  iron  in  the  merchandise  of  Dan  and 
Javan,  but  that  rather  the  contrary  was  the  ease.  Pliny 
(xxxiv,  41)  awards  the  palm  to  the  iron  of  Seriea,  that 
of  Parthia  being  next  in  excellence.  The  Chalybes  of 
the  Pontus  were  celebrated  as  workers  in  iron  in  very 
ancient  times  (/Eseh.  Prom.  733).  They  were  identified 
by  Strabo  with  the  Chaldan  of  his  day  (xii,  549),  and 
the  mines  which  they  worked  were  in  the  mountains 
skirting  the  sea-coast.  The  produce  of  their  labor  is 
supposed  to  be  alluded  to  in  Jer.  xv,  12,  as  being  of  su- 
perior quality.  Iron  mines  are  still  in  existence  on  the 
same  coast,  and  the  ore  is  found  “ in  small  nodular  mass- 
es in  a dark  vellow  clay  whieh  overlies  a limestone  rock'- 
(Smith’s  Diet,  of  Class.  Geog . s.  v.  Chalybes). 


658 


IRON 

From  the  earliest  times  we  meet  with  manufactures 
in  iron  of  the  utmost  variety  (some  articles  of  which 
seem  to  be  anticipations  of  what  are  commonly  sup- 
posed to  be  modern  inventions).  Thus  iron  was  used 
for  chisels  (Dent,  xxvii,  5),  or  something  of  the  kind ; 
for  axes  (Dent,  xix,  5;  2 Kings  vi,  5, 6 ; Isa.  x,  34;  comp. 
Homer,  11.  iv,  435) ; for  harrows  and  saws  (2  Sam.  xii, 
31 ; 1 Chron.  xx,  3) ; for  nails  (1  Chron.  xxii,  3),  and  the 
fastenings  of  the  Temple;  for  weapons  of  war  (1  Sam. 
xvii,  7 ; Job  xx,  24),  and  for  war  chariots  (Josh,  xvii, 
16, 18 ;’ Judg.  i,  19;  iv,3, 13).  The  latter  were  plated 
or  studded  with  it,  or  perhaps  armed  with  iron  scythes 
at  the  axles,  like  the  currus  fuleati  of  the  ancient  Ho- 
mans. Its  usage  in  defensive  armor  is  implied  in  2 
Sam.  xxiii,  7 (compare  I lev.  ix,  9),  and  as  a safeguard 
in  peace  it  appears  in  fetters  (Psa.  cv,  13),  prison  gates 
(Acts  xii,  10),  and  bars  of  gates  or  doors  (Psa.  evii,  16; 
Isa.  xlv,  2),  as  well  as  for  surgical  purposes  (1  Tim.  iv, 
2).  Sheet-iron  was  used  for  cooking  utensils  (Ezek.  iv, 
3 ; compare  Lev.  vii,  9),  and  bars  of  hammered  iron  are 
mentioned  in  Job  xl,  18  (though  here  the  Sept,  per- 
A-ersely  renders  aiSgpog  ywroc,  “cast-iron”).  We  have 
also  mention  of  iron  instruments  (Numb.xxxv,7);  barb- 
ed irons,  used  in  hunting  (Job  xii,  7)  ; an  iron  bed- 
stead (Deut.iii,  11) ; iron  weights  (shekels)  (1  Sam.  xvii, 
7) ; iron  tools  (1  Kings  vi,  7:  2 Kings  vi,  5)  ; horns  (for 
symbolical  use,  1 Kings  xxii,  11);  trees  bound  with 
iron  (Dan.  iv,  15) ; gods  of  iron  (Dan.  v,  4),  etc.  It 
was  used  by  Solomon,  according  to  Josephus,  to  clamp 
the  large  rocks  with  which  he  built  up  the  Temple 
mount  (.-l»rf.  xv,  11,  3),  and  by  Hezekiah’s  workmen  to 
hew  out  the  conduits  of  Gihon  (Ecclus.  xlviii,  17).  Im- 
ages were  fastened  in  their  niches  in  later  times  by  iron 
brackets  or  clamps  (Wisd.  xiii,  15).  Agricultural  im- 
plements were  early  made  of  the  same  material.  In  the 
treaty  made  by  Porsena  was  inserted  a condition  like 
that  imposed  on  the  Hebrews  by  the  Philistines,  that 
no  iron  should  be  used  except  for  agricultural  purposes 
(Pliny,  xxxiv,  39).  It  does  not  follow  from  Job  xix, 
24,  that  it  was  used  for  a writing  implement,  though 
such  may  have  been  the  case  (comp.  Isa.  xvii,  1),  any 
more  than  that  adamant  was  employed  for  the  same 
purpose  (Jcr.  xvii,  1),  or  that  shoes  were  shod  with  iron 
and  brass  (Dent,  xxxiii,  25).  Indeed,  iron  so  frequently 
occurs  in  poetic  figures  that  it  is  difficult  to  discriminate 
between  its  litoral  and  metaphorical  sense.  In  such  pas- 
sages as  the  following,  in  which  a “ yoke  of  iron”  (Deut. 
xxviii, 48)  denotes  hard  service;  “a  rod  of  iron”  (Psa. 
ii,  9),  a stern  government ; “ a pillar  of  iron”  (Jer.  i,  18), 
a strong  support;  “and  threshing  instruments  of  iron” 
(Amos  i,3),  the  means  of  cruel  oppression;  the  hardness 
and  heaviness  (Ecclus.  xxii,  15)  of  iron  are  so  clearly  the 
prominent  ideas,  that,  though  it  may  have  been  used  for 
the  instruments  in  question,  such  usage  is  not  of  neces- 
sity indicated.  “ 'l\\e  furnace  of  iron”  (Deut.  iv,  28;  1 
Kings  viii,  51)  is  a figure  which  vividly  expresses  hard 
bondage,  as  represented  by  the  severe  labor  which  at- 
tended the  operation  of  smelting.  Iron  is  alluded  to  in 
the  following  instances:  Under  the  same  figure,  chas- 
tisement is  denoted  (Ezek.  xxii,  18,  20,  22)  ; reducing 
the  earth  to  total  barrenness  by  turning  it  into  iron  (Deut. 
xxviii,  23);  strength,  by  a bar  of  it  (Job  xl,  18) ; afflic- 
tion, by  iron  fetters  ( Psa.  evii,  10) ; prosperity,  by  giving 
silver  for  ir<*u  (Isa.  lx,  17);  political  strength  (Dan.  ii, 
33) ; obstinacy,  by  an  iron  sinew  in  the  neck  (Isa.  xlviii, 
4);  giving  supernatural  fortitude  to  a prophet,  making 
him  an  iron  pillar  (Jcr.  i,  18) ; destructive  power  of  em- 
pires, by  iron  teeth  (Dan.  vii,  7);  deterioration  of  char- 
acter, by  becoming  iron  (Jer.  vi,  28;  Ezek.  xxii,  18), 
which  resembles  the  idea  of  the  iron  age;  a tiresome 
burden,  by  a mass  of  iron  (Ecclus.  xxii,  15) ; the  great- 
est obstacles,  bv  walls  of  iron  (2  Macc.  xi,  9);  the  cer- 
tainty with  which  a real  enemy  w ill  ever  show  his  ha- 
tred, by  the  rust,  returning  upon  iron  (Ecclus.  xii,  10). 
Iron  seems  used,  as  by  the  Hebrew  poets,  metonymieallv 
for  the  sword  (Isa.  x,  34),  and  so  the  Sept,  understands 
it,  puxaipa.  The  following  is  selected  as  a beautiful 


IRON 

comparison  made  to  iron  (Prov.  xxvii,  17),  “Iron  (liter- 
ally) uniteth  iron;  so  a man  uniteth  the  countenance 
of  his  friend,”  gives  stability  to  his  appearance  by  his 
presence. 

It  was  for  a long  time  supposed  that  the  Egyptians 
were  ignorant  of  the  use  of  iron,  and  that  the  allusions 
in  the  Pentateuch  were  anachronisms,  as  no  traces  of  it 
have  been  found  in  their  monuments;  but  in  the  sepul- 
chres at  Thebes  butchers  are  represented  as  sharpening 
their  knives  on  a round  bar  of  metal  attached  to  their 
aprons,  which,  from  its  blue  color,  is  presumed  to  be 
steel.  The  steel  weapons  on  the  tomb  of  Rameses  III 
are  also  painted  blue ; those  of  bronze  being  red  (Wil- 
kinson, A nc.  Eg.  iii,  247).  One  iron  mine  only  has  been 
discovered  in  Egypt,  which  was  worked  by  the  ancients. 
It  is  at  Hammami,  between  the  Nile  and  the  Red  Sea; 
the  iron  found  by  Sir.  Burton  was  in  the  form  of  specu- 
lar and  red  ore  (ibkl.  iii,  246).  That  no  articles  of  iron 
should  have  been  found  is  readily  accounted  for  by  the 
fact  that  it  is  easily  destroyed  by  exposure  to  the  air 
and  moisture.  According  to  Pliny  (xxxiv,  43),  it  was 
preserved  by  a coating  of  white  lead,  gypsum,  and  liquid 
pitch.  Bitumen  was  probably  employed  for  the  same 
purpose  (xxxv,  52).  The  Egyptians  obtained  their 
iron  almost  exclusively  from  Assyria  Proper  in  the  form 
of  bricks  or  pigs  (Layard,  Nineveh , ii,  415),  Specimens 
of  Assyrian  iron-work  overlaid  with  bronze  were  discov- 
ered by  Mr.  Layard,  and  are  now  in  the  British  Museum 
(Nin.  and  Bab.  p.  191).  Iron  weapons  of  various  kinds 
were  found  at  Nimrud,  but  fell  to  pieces  on  exposure 
to  t he  air.  Some  portions  of  shields  and  arrow-heads 
(ib.  p.  194,  596)  were  rescued,  and  are  now  in  England. 
A pick  of  the  same  metal  (ib.  p.  194)  was  also  found,  as 
w'ell  as  part  of  a saw  (p.  195),  and  the  head  of  an  axe 
(p.  357),  and  remains  of  scale-armor  and  helmets  inlaid 
with  copper  (Nineveh,  i,  340).  It  was  used  by  the  Etrus- 
cans for  offensive  weapons,  as  bronze  for  defensive  ar- 
mor. The  Assyrians  had  daggers  and  arrow-heads  of 
copper  mixed  with  iron,  and  hardened  with  an  alloy  of 
tin  (Layard,  Nineveh,  ii,  418).  So  in  the  days  of  Ho- 
mer war-clubs  were  shod  with  iron  (II.  vii,  141);  ar- 
rows were  tipped  with  it  (II.  iv,  123);  it  was  used  for 
the  axles  of  chariots  (II.  v,  723),  for  fetters  (Od.  i,  204), 
for  axes  and  bills  (II.  iv,  485;  Od.  xxi,  3,  81).  Adras- 
tus  (II.  vi,  48)  and  Ulysses  (Od.  xxi,  10)  reckoned  it 
among  their  treasures,  the  iron  weapons  being  kept  in  a 
chest  in  the  treasury  with  the  gold  and  brass  (Od.  xxi, 
61).  In  Od.  i,  184,  Mcntes  tells  Telemachus  that  he  is 
travelling  from  Taphos  to  Tamcse  to  procure  brass  in 
exchange  for  iron,  which  Eustathius  says  was  not  ob- 
tained from  the  mines  of  the  island,  but  was  the  produce 
of  piratical  excursions  (Millin,  Mineral.  Horn.  p.  115,  2d 
ed.).  Pliny  (xxxiv,  40)  mentions  iron  as  used  symbol- 
ically for  a statue  of  Hercules  at  Thebes  (comp.  Dan.  ii, 
33;  v,  4),  and  goblets  of  iron  as  among  the  offerings  in 
the  temple  of  Mars  the  Avenger,  at  Rome.  Alyattes 
the  Lydian  dedicated  to  the  oracle  at  Delphi  a small 
goblet  of  iron,  the  workmanship  of  Glaucus  of  Chios,  to 
whom  the  oiscovery  of  the  art  of  soldering  this  metal  is 
attributed  (Herod,  i,  25).  The  goblet  is  described  by 
Pausanias  (x,  16).  From  the  fact  that  such  offerings 
were  made  to  the  temples,  and  that  Achilles  gave  as  a 
prize  of  contest  a rudely-shaped  mass  of  the  same  metal 
(Homer,  II.  xxiii,  826),  it  has  been  argued  that  in  early 
times  iron  was  so  little  known  as  to  be  greatly  esteemed 
for  its  rarity.  That  this  was  not  the  case  in  the  time 
of  Lycurgiis  is  evident,  and  Homer  attaches  to  it  no  ep- 
ithet which  would  denote  its  preciousness  (Millin,  p. 
106).  There  is  reason  to  suppose  that  the  discovery  of 
brass  preceded  that  of  iron  (Lucret.  v,  1292),  though 
little  weight  can  be  attached  to  the  line  of  Hesiod  often 
quoted  as  decisive  on  this  point  (Op.  et  Dies,  150).  The 
Dactvli  I dad  of  Crete  wore  supposed  by  the  ancients  to 
have  the  merit,  of  being  the  first  to  discover  the  proper- 
ties of  iron  (Pliny,  vii,  57 ; Diod.  Sic.  v,  64),  as  the  Cy- 
clopes were  said  to  have  invented  the  iron-smith’s  forge 
(Pliny,  vii,  57).  According  to  the  Arundelian  marbles, 


IRON 


659 


IRREGULARITY 


Iron  was  known  B.C.  1370,  while  Larclier  (Chronologic 
d' Herod,  p.  570)  assigns  a still  earlier  date,  B.C.  1537. 
— Smith ; Kitto.  See  Steel. 

I 'roil  (Heb.  Yiron',  "pX“H,  place  of  alarm ; Sept. 
Tfpwv),  one  of  the  “ fenced”  cities  of  Naphtali,  mention- 
ed between  En-hazor  and  Migdal-el  (Josh,  xix,  38).  De 
San  Icy  ( Xarrat . ii,  382)  thinks  it  may  be  the  Yaroun 
marked  in  Zimmerman’s  map  north-west  of  Safed,  the 
Yaron  observed  by  Dr.  Ilobinson  (new  ed.  of  Researches, 
iii,  61,  62,  notes).  Van  de  Velde  likewise  remarks  that 
it  is  “now  Yarun,  a village  of  Belad  Besharah.  On 
the  north-east  side  of  the  place  are  the  foundations  and 
other  remains  of  the  ancient  city”  ( Memoir , p.  322). 

Ironside,  Gilbert,  D.D.,  a bishop  in  the  Church 
of  England  during  the  period  of  the  Restoration.  Of 
his  early  history  but  little  is  known  to  us.  lie  was  the 
rector  of  a small  church  in  an  obscure  little  village  in 
Dorsetshire  when  he  was  promoted  to  the  see  of  Bris- 
tol immediately  after  the  Restoration.  Wood  {A  then. 
Oxon.  iii,  940)  says  of  him  that  he  owed  his  promotion 
to  a poor  bishopric  solely  to  his  great  wealth,  lie  died 
in  1671.  Bishop  Ironside  is  the  author  of  a work  en- 
titled The  Sabbath  (Oxford,  1637,  4to).  See  Stoughton, 
Eccles.  History  of  England  ( Church  of  the  Restoration ), 
i,  494. 

Iroquois.  See  Indians. 

Ir'peel  (Hebrew  YirpeeV,  restored  bv  God; 

Sept.  If n<J>at)\),  a city  in  the  tribe  of  Benjamin,  men- 
tioned between  Rekem  and  Taralali  (Josh,  xviii,  27). 
The  associated  names  only  afford  a conjectural  position 
somewhere  in  the  district  west  of  Jerusalem,  possibly  at 
el-Kustul  (Lat.  castellum ),  on  a conical  hill  about  half 
way  between  Kuloniyeli  (Lat.  colonia ) and  Soba  (Rob- 
inson, Researches,  ii,  328). 

Irregularity  is  a technical  term  for  the  want  of 
the  necessary  canonical  qualifications  for  the  acquisition 
and  exercise  of  an  ecclesiastical  office.  These  requisite 
qualifications  are  set  forth  in  canones  or  regulce  enacted 
from  time  to  time  by  the  Church  for  that  purpose.  It 
was  based  first  on  the  apostolic  examples  given  in  1 Tim. 
iii,  1 sq. ; v,  22;  Tit.  i,  6 sq.;  and,  after  the  notion  of  the 
Levitical  priesthood  gained  ground  among  the  clergy, 
on  the  regulations  of  the  O.  Test.,  which  were  explained 
in  a mythical  sense.  The  qualifications  themselves  can 
all  be  reduced  to  this,  that  the  party  ordained  should  not 
be  in  disrepute  for  crime,  or  in  a state  which  would  ren- 
der him  unfit  for  and  incapable  of  ordination.  Innocent 
III  (in  c.  14,  X.  De purgatione  canonica  [v,  33]  an.  1207) 
distinguishes  “nota  delicti ” and  llnota  defectus ” as  “ im- 
pedienta  ad  sacros  ordines  promovendum ;”  and  subse- 
quent canonists  have  therefore  divided  the  impediments 
in  a like  manner.  In  early  times  divers  expressions 
were  made  use  of  to  designate  these  impediments,  but 
since  Innocent  III  irregnlaritus  has  become  the  techni- 
cal name  of  them  in  canon  law  (c.  33,  X.  De  testibus  [ii, 
20]  an.  1203).  See  Incapacity. 

The  Greek  Church  in  general  adhered  more  to  the 
principles  which  had  been  established  during  the  first 
six  centuries  (see  Canones  A postolorum.,  Cone.  Neoceesar. 
an.  314,  can.  9 [c.  11,  dist.  xxxiv] ; Concil.  Nicer n.  eod. 
an.,  Trullianum,  an.  692,  can.  21),  whilst  the  Evangelical 
Church  has  so  far  adopted  also  later  regulations,  which 
were  in  accordance  with  its  general  spirit.  The  formu- 
las of  confession  and  ecclesiastical  discipline  still  con- 
tinue, however,  to  refer  expressly  to  the  above-named 
passages  of  Scripture. 

1.  Irregularity  on  Account  of  a Crime. — The  apostle 
demands  that  he  who  is  to  assume  an  office  over  the 
congregation  shoidd  be  unimpeaehed.  Church  disci- 
pline has  gradually  defined  the  offenses  which  compose 
irregularity.  Originally  it  consisted  of  all  offenses  that 
necessitated  public  penance;  after  the  9th  century,  of 
such  as  were  publicly  known  ( delictum  manifestum,  no- 
torium),  and  all  faults  entailing  dishonor,  in  which  the 
“infamibus  portie  non  patcant  dignitatum”  of  c.  87,  De 


regalis  juris,  was  practically  adhered  to  (comp.  c.  2,  Cod. 
Just.  “ de  dignitatibus,”  xii,  1,  Constantin.).  There  are, 
besides,  other  offenses  named  by  the  law  which,  even 
though  secret  (delicta  occulta),  constitute  irregularity, 
namely,  heresy,  apostasy,  schism,  simony,  anabaptism, 
subreption  of  the  ordination,  promotion  without  passing 
through  the  regular  hierarchical  degrees,  ministration 
without  consecration,  performance  of  worship  whilst  un- 
der excommunication  or  interdict,  disregard  of  the  rule 
of  celibacy,  etc.  (see  Thomassin,  Vetus  et  nova  ecclesiic 
disciplina,  pt.  ii,  lib.  i,  cap.  lvi-lxv;  Ferraris,  Bibliotheca 
canonica,  s.  v.  Irregularitas,  art.  i,  No.  11;  Erseh  und 
Gruber,  Encyklopadie,  s.  v.  Ordination). 

Whilst  the  Greek  Church  generally  adhered  to  these 
regulations,  the  Evangelical  Church  naturally  deviates 
from  them  in  many  particulars,  in  consequence  of  the 
absence  of  an  ecclesiastical  hierarchy,  the  abolition  of 
the  rule  of  celibacy,  etc.  That  a person  who  has  under- 
gone punishment  for  crime  is  incapable  of  being  ordain- 
ed is  self-evident.  If  a party  is  in  bad  repute,  the  con- 
gregation has  a right  to  oppose  his  appointment,  in  case 
the  imputations  arc  well  founded.  This  is  a law  among 
all  Christian  denominations. 

The  Romish  Church  suppresses  the  consequences  of 
irregularity  on  account  of  crime  by  means  of  a dispen- 
sation which  the  bishops  are  empowered  to  give  when 
the  crime  is  not  public,  except  in  case  of  premeditated 
murder  ( Concilium  Trident.  Sess.  xxiv,  cap.  6,  “ De  re- 
form. verb. ;”  Scss.  xiv,  cap.  7,  “ De  reform.”).  In  this 
case  the  dispensation  can  come  only  from  the  pope  him- 
self. So  also  for  public  offences,  except  he  delegates 
special  powers  to  the  bishop  for  that  purpose.  In  the 
Greek  Church,  on  the  contrary,  the  strict  regulations 
of  old  are  maintained,  whereby  irregularity  for  heavy 
offences  cannot  be  removed  (Thomassin,  Vetus  et  nova 
eccles.  disciplina,  cap.  lx,  § 12). 

II.  Irregularity  caused  by  Want  of  Qualification. — 
Irregularity  for  offence  constitutes  also  irregularity  for 
want  of  sufficient  qualification,  as  it  entails  the  loss  of 
good  reputation  {defectus  fames ) ; to  this  are,  however, 
added  other  causes  which  are  considered  as  defects. 
Among  these  are : 

1.  Defectus  cetatis  (want  of  the  canonical  age). — The 
age  appointed  for  ordination  has  undergone  various 
changes.  According  to  the  present  canon  law,  the  pri- 
mary consecration  of  the  Romish  Church  can  be  impart- 
ed in  the  seventh  year;  it  is  the  tonsure  (c.  4,  De  tem- 
porib.  ord.  in  vi  [1,  9]  Boniface  VI II;  Cone.  Trid.  Sess. 
xxiii,  cap.  4,  “ De  reform.”).  The  age  demanded  for  the 
other  orders  is : for  subdeacons,  the  twenty-second ; dea- 
cons, the  twenty-third ; presbyters,  the  twenty-fifth ; 
bishops  must  be  over  thirty  (Cone.  Trid.  Sess.  xxiii,  cap. 
12,  “De  reform.”).  Yet  the  pope  can  grant  dispensa- 
tions. In  the  Greek  Church,  the  old  rule  demanding  that 
deacons  should  be  twenty  years  old  when  ordained,  and 
presbyters  thirty,  is  still  retained  (Nov.  Justin,  cxxxvii, 
cap.  1 ; Cone.  Trullianum,  can.  xii).  The  evangelical 
churches  generally  require  full  majority,  or  twenty-five 
years;  in  some  countries  ordination  is  given  at  twenty- 
one.  Dispensations  are  also  granted  under  certain  cir- 
cumstances. The  Church  of  England  requires  candi- 
dates to  deacons’  orders  to  be  twenty-three,  presbyters 
twenty-four,  and  bishops  thirty. 

2.  Defectus  natalium  (legit imoruni). — Illegitimacy  was 
no  obstacle  to  ordination  in  the  ancient  Church  (c.  8, 
dist.  lvi,  Hieronymus).  It  has  been  considered  so  since 
the  9th  century;  yet  the  rule  was  not  very  strictly  en- 
forced (Concil.  Meldense,  an.  845  [in  cap.  17,  can.  i,  qu. 
vii]  ; Regino,  De  discipl.  eccl.  lib.  i,  c.  416  sq.).  Espe- 
cial action  wras  taken  concerning  the  children  of  ordain- 
ed priests  (Concil.  Pictaviense,  an.  1078  [c.  1,  X.  “ De  fiiiis 
presbvterorum  ordinandis  vel  non,”i,  17  ] ; Claramontan. 
an.  1095  [comp.  c.  14,  dist.  lvi,  Urban  II),  etc. ; see  espe- 
cially dist.  lvi,  tit.  x,  1, 17 ; lib.  vi,  1,11;  Cone.  Trid.  Sess. 
xxv,  cap.  15,  “ De  reform.”),  and  justified  their  laws  by 
the  passage  of  the  O.  T.,  Dent,  xxiii,  2 (comp.  c.  10,  § 
6,  X.  “ De  renunciat.”  i,  9,  Innocent  III,  an.  1206).  This 


660 


IRREGULARITY 


IRREGULARITY 


defect,  however,  can  he  remedied  (a)  by  recognition  (c. 
6,  X.  “Qui  filii  siiit  legitimi,”  iv,  17,  Alexander  III); 
(6)  by  entrance  into  a convent  or  foundation  of  regular 
canons  (c.  1 1,  dist.  lvi,  Urban  II ; c.  1,  X.  “ De  liliis  pres- 
byterorum.”  etc.).  This  regulation,  abolished  by  Six- 
tus V,  was  restored  by  Gregory  X\  I in  1591,  but  with 
this  condition,  that  such  persons  should  be  disabled  from 
prelatical  honors,  (c)  By  dispensation,  which,  for  onli- 
nes minores,  and  for  majores  when  the  defect  is  not  pub- 
licly known,  can  be  granted  by  the  bishop;  otherwise, 
for  or  dines  majores,  and  benefits  connected  with  cure  of 
souls,  the  dispensation  can  be  granted  only  by  the  pope 
(c.  1,  “ I)e  liliis  preshy terorum,”  in  vi  [i,  11]  ; comp.  c. 
20,  25,  X.  “De  electione”  [i,  6]).  The  Greek  Church 
does  not  recognise  this  defect  (Thomassin,  cap.  lxxxi,  § 
4),  neither  does  the  evangelical  Church,  although  many 
jurists  consider  the  canonical  principle  on  which  it  is 
based  as  common  law  (Wiese,  Kirchenrecht,  pt.  iii,  sec. 
I,  p.  160 ; Eichhom,  Deutsches  Pneatrecht,  § 89 ; Kirch- 
enrecht, i,  p.  704). 

3.  Defedus  corporis. — In  imitation  of  the  Mosaic  law 
(Lev.  xxi,  17-20  sip),  it  was  at  an  early  time  demanded 
that  the  candidates  for  orders  shoidd  have  no  bodily 
blemishes  such  as  might  render  them  unfit  for  the  duties 
of  their  office,  or  a subject  of  dislike  to  the  people  (Con- 
stit.  A post.  lib.  vii,  cap.  2,  3;  Canones  Apostolornm,  cap. 
76,  77).  The  Church  became  subsequently  very  strict 
on  this  point,  and  declared  all  bodily  defects  sufficient 
ground  for  irregularity  (cap.  2,  dist.  xxxiii ; cap.  7,  dist. 
xxxiv;  c.  1,  dist.  xxxvi ; c.  1,3,  dist.  lv,  etc.),  but  final- 
ly returned  again  to  the  former  rules  (tit.  x,  “ De  cor- 
por.  vitiatis  orilinandis  vel  non,”  i,  20).  Thus  ordina- 
tion is  refused  to  the  deaf,  dumb,  and  blind  ( Con . Apos- 
iol.  77,  c.  6,  X.  “ De  elerico  aegrotante  vel  debilitato,”  iii, 
6) ; also  to  those  who  have  hut  one  eye,  especially  if  the 
one  wanting  is  the  left  (orulus  canonis),  as  in  reading 
mass  the  Missal  is  placed  on  the  left  side  (cap.  13,  dist. 
lv),  the  lame  (c.  10,  dist.  lv ; c.  56,  dist.  i,  “ De  eonsecr.”), 
epileptics  (c.  1,  2,  can.  vii,  qu.  ii;  c.  21,  X.  “De  electio- 
ne,” i,  6),  lepers  (c.  3,  4,  X.  “ De  clerico  aegrot.”  iii,  6), 
those  who  had  mutilated  themselves  (c.  21  sq. ; Apost. 
c.  7 sq.,  dist.  lv),  hermaphrodites  (Ferraris,  Bibliotheca 
canottica,  s.  v.).  In  some  of  these  cases  there  can  be 
dispensations  granted,  as,  for  instance,  for  the  loss  of  the 
lcit  eye,  when  the  right  lias  gained  more  strength  so  as 
to  compensate  for  the  defect  (Ferraris,  s.  v.  Irregularitas, 
art.  i,  no.  12).  The  Greek  Church  has  retained  the 
original  principle,  and  its  application  by  the  Evangelical 
Church  appears  fully  justified. 

4.  Defedus  aninue.  (want  of  spiritual  capacity) Thus 

madness,  imbecility,  etc.,  are  grounds  of  irregularity  (c. 
2-5,  dist.  xxxiii). 

5.  Defect  us  scientiep  (the  want  of  adequate  educational 
preparation).— In  accordance  with  various  passages  of 
the  O.T.(Jer.i,9;  IIos.iv,6 ; Mai. ii, 7, etc.), even  the  ear- 
ly Church  demanded  of  its  officers  to  have  enjoyed  spe- 
cial educational  advantages,  which  alone  could  qualify 
them  to  act  as  teachers  of  the  people  (comp.  dist.  xxxvi- 
xxxviii,  etc.),  and  the  civil  laws  also  insisted  on  this 
point  (Novella,  v.  vi,  cap.  4,  etc.,  Cojntulnres  of  Charle- 
magne; Lett  berg,  Kirch  enr/esch.  Deutschlands , vol.  ii,  § 
12-1).  With  regard  to  the  different  orders  special  regu- 
lations were  gradually  adopted.  The  Council  of  Trent 
prescribes:  “I’rima  tonsura  non  initientur,  qui  sacra- 
mentum  confirmations  non  susceperint  et  fidei  rudi- 
menta  edocti  non  fuerint,  quique  legerc  et  scribere  nes- 
ciant.  Minores  ordines  iis  qui  saltern  Latinam  linguam 
intelligaut  . . . eonferantur.  Subdiaconi  et  diaconi  or- 
dinentur  ...  in  minoribus  ordinibus  jam  probati,  ac 
libris  et  iis  qnas  ad  ordinem  cxereendum  pertinent  iu- 
structi.  Qui  . . . ad  ordinem  preshyteratus  assumun- 
tur  ...  ail  populum  docenda  ea,  quae  scire  omnibus 
necesse  est  ail  salutem,  ac  iniuistranda  sacramenta  dili- 
genti  examine  pneceilcnte  idonei  comprobentur.  Qui- 
cunijue  postliac  ad  ecclesias  cathedrales  crit  assn  mend  us 
. . . antea  in  universitate  studiorum  magister  sivc  doc- 
tor ant  licentiatus  in  sacra  thcologia  vel  jure  canoni- 


co  merito  sit  promotus,  aut  publico  alicujus  academia! 
testimonio  idoneus  ad  alios  docendos  tendatur”  ( Concil . 
Trid.  Sess.  xxiii,  cap.  4,  11,  13,  14,  “De  reform.;”  Sess. 
xxii,  cap.  2,  “ De  reform.”).  No  dispensations  can  be 
granted  for  this  case ; still  the  pope  may  direct  that  a 
party  be  ordained  without  possessing  the  necessary  in- 
struction, but  should  not  act  in  the  office  until  he  has 
remedied  this  defect.  Otherwise  the  party  thus  or- 
dained is  to  be  deposed  (c.  15,  X.  “De  estate”  [i,  14]). 
The  Evangelical  Church  has  from  the  beginning  attach- 
ed much  importance  to  the  proper  preparation  and  nat- 
ural attainments  of  candidates.  ' They  are  therefore 
generally  subjected  to  examinations  before  ordination. 
See  Licentiate;  Ministry;  Theological,  Educa- 
tion; and  also  the  different  articles  on  Christian  denom- 
inations. 

6.  Defectus  fdei  (want  of  a well-grounded  faith). — In 
consequence  of  the  prescription  of  the  apostle  (1  Tim. 
iii,  6 ; v,  22)  that  no  vtctyrTog  should  be  ordained,  the 
Church  commanded  that  none  should  be  ordained  im- 
mediately after  conversion  {Canon.  Apost.  79;  Concil. 
Niceen.  325,  c.  2 [c.  1,  dist.  xlvii] ; Gregorius,  anno  599 
[c.  2,  eod.]),  and  especially  none  who  had  been  baptized 
in  sickness  ( clinici ) {Cone.  Xeoccesar.  an.  314,  c.  12  [c.  1, 
dist.  lvii]).  Its  original  strictness  against  the  children 
and  relatives  of  heretics  was  subsequently  relaxed,  and 
even  the  decrees  concerning  new  converts  fell  into  dis- 
use where  such  showed  that  they  possessed  a firm  faith 
(c.  7,  X.  “ In  fine  de  rescriptis”  f i,  3]) ; Gonzalez  Tellez, 
Comment.  No.  7 ; Lancelot,  Distit.jur.  can.  lib.  i,  tit.  vii, 
§ 12).  It  was,  however,  always  the  rule  that  no  new 
convert  coidd  he  raised  at  once  to  high  offices  (c.  1 sq., 
dist.  Ixi),  and  this  rule  has  been  maintained  in  the 
Greek  Church  (Synod,  i et  ii,  anno  861,  c.  17).  In  the 
Evangelical  Church  it  was  also  forbidden  to  raise  any 
proselyte  to  office,  but  this  is  not  generally  adhered  to 
in  practice. 

7.  Defectus  perfectee  lenitatis  (want  of  meekness).—. 
It  applies  to  those  who  have  departed  from  the  prineb 
pie  Kcclesia  noil  sitit  sanrpdnem.  Hence,  to  those  wlm 
have  shed  blood  in  war  {Cone.  Tolet.  i,  anno  400,  c.  8 [c. 
4,  dist.  Ii]  ; Innocent  I,  anno  404  [c.  1,  eod.]  ; c.  24,  X. 
“De  homicidio”  [v,  12],  Ilonorius  III) ; also  those  who 
have  sat  as  accuser,  witness,  lawyer,  judge,  or  juryman 
in  a criminal  court,  and  taken  part  in  a sentence  of 
death  ( Concil . Tolet.  iv,  anno  633,  c.  31 ; Cone.  Tolet.  xi, 
anno  675,  c.  6 [c.  29,  30,  can.  xxiii,  qu.  viii]  ; c.  5,  9,  X. 
“ In  clerici  vel  monaehi  negotiis  secularibus  sc  immis- 
ceant,”  iii,  50;  comp.  c.  xxi,  X.  “De  homicidio,”  v.  12, 
etc.,  especially  the  glosses  to  c.  I,  dist.  Ii,  “Ad.  v.  sacer- 
dotiurn”) ; also  all  who  had  practised  surgery,  in  so  far 
as  cutting  and  cauterizing  were  concerned  {quee  ad  us- 
tionem  vel  incisioncm  inelucit ) (c.  9,  X.  cit.  iii,  50). 

8.  Defectus  sacramenti  {matrimonii')  (want  of  adhe- 
rence to  the  rule  of  monogamy). — The  apostolic  com- 
mand about  the  bishops  and  deacons  being  the  husbands 
of  one  wife  (1  Tim. iii, 2, 12;  Tit.i,G)  was  by  the  Church 
considered  as  forbidding  not  only  actual  bigamy  {hieja- 
mia  rera  seu  simultanea),  but  also  second  marriage  {hi- 
f/ennia  successiva)  (dist.  xxvi ; c.  1,  2,  dist.  xxxiii,  tit.  x, 
“ De  bigamis  non  orilinandis,”  i,  21,  etc.).  The  idea  of 
bigamy  was  subsequently  extended  to  include  marriage 
with  a widow  or  a deflowered  virgin  {liffamiit  intepre- 
teitira)  (c.  2,  dist.  xxxiii;  c.  10,  iu,  dist.  xxxiv;  c.  8, 
dist.  i;  c.  10,  § 6,  X.  “De  renunciatione,”  i,  9;  c.  33,  X. 
“ De  testibus,”  ii,  20 ; e.  4,  5,  7,  X.  “ De  bigamis  non  ord.” 
i,  21 ; Novella  Justiniani,  vi,  cap.  1,  § 3 ; cap.  v,  cxxiii; 
cap.  xii) ; also  the  continuation  of  the  marriage,  rilation 
after  a woman  had  committed  adultery  (c.  11,  12,  dist. 
xxxiv).  Finally,  it  was  considered  bigamy  for  those 
who,  by  a vow  of  chastity,  had  been  joined  in  spiritual 
marriage  to  the  Church,  like  monks,  or  who  had  attain- 
ed high  ecclesiastical  positions,  to  marry  even  a virgin 
{Uganda  similitudinaria)  (c.  24,  can.  xxvii,  qu.  i [Cone. 
Anryr.  an.  314]).  In  this  case  the  irregularity  results 
non  propter  sacramenti  defectum , sed  propter affectum 
intenlionis  cum  opere  subsecuto,  as  Innocent  III  expressly 


IRRESISTIBLE  GRACE 


G61 


IRRIGATION 


declares  (c.  4 and  7.  X.  “ De  bigamis  non  ord.”).  This  : 
constitutes  a real  offense,  for  which,  however,  the  bish-  j 
op  can  give  a dispensation  (c.  4,  X.  “ De  clericis  conju-  | 
gatis,”  iv,  B;  c.  1,  X.  “ Qui  clerici  vel  voventes  matrim. 
contrahere  possunt,”  iv,  6).  In  cases  of  real  bigamy,  the 
dispensation  is  granted  by  the  pope  himself  for  higher, 
and  by  the  bishop  for  minor  orders  (see  glosses  on  c.  17, 
dist.  xxxiv,  and  on  c.  2.  X.  “ De  bigamis  non  ord.”). 
The  Greek  Church  follows  the  same  principles,  whilst 
the  Evangelical  Church  thinks  there  is  nothing  repre-  I 
hensible  in  repeated  marriages,  even  with  widows  (see  j 
Rom.  vii,  2,  3 ; 1 Cor.  vii,  39). 

9.  Defectus  famce  (a  bad  reputation). — On  the  many 
cases  of  this  kind  which  may  produce  irregularity,  but 
are  distinguished  from  those  in  which  irregularity  re- 
sults from  a misdeed,  see  Ferraris,  Bibliotheca  canonica , 
s.  v.  Irrcgularitas,  art.  i,  no.  12,  a;  E.  Phillips,  Kirclien-  i 
reckt , vol.  i,  c.  53. 

10.  Defectus  libertatis  (want  of  liberty). — No  one  who 
is  not  perfectly  free  to  dispose  of  himself  can  be  ordain- 
ed  until  consent  has  been  given  to  it  by  the  party  on 
whom  he  depends.  Thus  slaves  require  the  assent  of 
their  master  ( Canones  Apostolorum,  c.  82;  c.  1,  2,  4 sq., 
12,  21,  dist.  liv;  c.  37,  can.  xvii,  qu.  iv,  tit.  x,  “ De  ser- 
vis  non  ordinandis,”  i,  18).  But  on  being  ordained  with 
the  consent  of  their  master  they  become  free;  when 
they  are  ordained  without  his  consent  he  can  reclaim 
them  within  one  year  ( Novella  Justiniani,  cxxiii,  cap. 
xvii,  “Auth.  si  servus”  [c.  37,  Cod.  de  episcopis  et  cler- 
icis, i,  3]).  Yet  we  find  among  the  clergy  of  the  Mid- 
dle Ages  some  who  remained  in  the  dependence  of  their 
former  masters  after  their  ordination,  though  with  some 
restrictions  (see  Fiirth,  Die  Ministerialen , Cologne,  1836, 

§ 272,  p.  462-465).  Those  who  arc  liable  to  civil  or 
military  duties  are  to  free  themselves  from  such  obliga- 
tions before  ordination  {Cod.  Theodos.  tit.  “ De  decuri- 
onibus,”  xii,  1 ; c.  12,  53,  Cod.  Justin.  “De  episcopis  et 
clericis,”  i,  3;  Novella , cxxiii,  cap.  i,  pr.  § 1 ; cap.  xv, 
“Auth.  sed  neque  eurialem”  [Cod.  de  episcopis  et  cleri- 
cis, i,  3]  ; c.  1-3,  dist.  li;  c.  3,  can.  xxiii,  qu.  vi,  etc.). 
Those  who  have  accounts  to  settle  are  to  do  so  before 
being  ordained  {Cone.  Carthag.  anno  348,  c.  8 ; and  c.  3, 
dist.  liv,  cap.  un.  X.  “De  obligatis  ad  ratiocinia  ordi- 
nandis vel  non,”  i,  19;  c.  1,  dist.  Iv  [Gelasius,  494];  c. 
1,  dist.  liii  [Gregor,  i,  598]).  Those  who  are  married 
require  the  consent  of  their  wife,  who  is  then  to  take 
the  vow  of  chastity  or  to  enter  a convent  (c.  6,  dist. 
xxviii  [Condi.  A relat.  ii,  461?] ; c.  8,  X.  “De  clericis 
conjugatio”  [iii,  3],  Innocent  III,  an.  1207;  comp.  c.  5, 
8,  X.  “De  conversione  conjugatorum”  [iii,  32],  Alex. 
Ill;  c.  4,  “De  tempore  ordinat.”  in  vi  [i,  9],  Boniface 
VIII).  According  to  Greek  canon  law  the  presbyter 
may  be  married;  and  it  is  only  in  case  he  should  be 
made  bishop  that  his  wife  is  obliged  to  enter  a convent 
{Cone.  Trullian.  an.  692,  c.  48).  Children  need  the  con- 
sent of  their  parents  until  they 
have  reached  the  age  of  puber- 
ty (fixed  at  14)  (c.  1,  can.  xx, 
qu.  ii;  c.  5,  dist.  xxviii).  See 
Thomassin,r<?t«s  et  nova  eccle- 
sue  disciplina,  part  ii,  lib.  i,  cap. 
xii-xcii;  Phillips, Kirchenrecht, 
vol.  i,  § 46-53. — Herzog,  Real- 
Encyklopddie,  vii,  67  sq.  See 
Ix.vim.iTY.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Irresistible  Grace.  As 
already  stated  in  the  article  on 
Grach,  the  word  grace  is  the 
hinge  of  three  great  theological 
controversies.  One  of  these,  on 
the  nature  of  depravity  and  re- 
generation, between  the  ortho- 
dox doctrine  of  the  Church  and 
Pelagianism,  comprehends  the 
question  of  irresistible  grace. 

Some  of  the  followers  of  Augus- 
tine, in  their  attempt  to  oppose 


Pelagianism,  says  the  Rev.  O.  Adolphus  {Compendium 
Theologicum,  p.  144, 3d  edit.  Cambridge,  England,  1865), 
of  the  Church  of  England,  and  himself  a believer  in 
predestination,  carry  their  views  of  the  absolute preiles- 
tination  of  a limited  number  to  the  ultimate  attainment 
of  salvation,  through  the  influence  of  the  irresistible 
grace  of  God  causing  their  final  perseverance,  to  such  an 
extreme  in  their  logical  deductions  that  there  appeared 
persons  who  charged  the  Augustinian  system  with  lead- 
ing to  the  dangerous  conclusions  that  human  actions 
are  immaterial,  and  human  efforts  for  the  conversion  of 
the  wicked  unavailing,  in  the  face  of  God’s  free  gift  of 
grace  in  accordance  with  his  secret  decrees,  predeter- 
mined from  everlasting.  For  the  Arminian  argument 
on  the  other  hand,  see  Arm ixianism;  Erection  ; Pre- 
destination; Will. 

Irrigation.  Gardens  in  the  East  anciently  were, 
and  still  are,  when  possible,  planted  near  streams,  which 
afford  the  means  of  easy  irrigation.  (See  the  curious 
account  of  ancient  garden  irrigation  in  Pliny,  Hist.  Nat. 
xix,  4.)  This  explains  such  passages  as  Gen.  ii,  9 sq., 
and  Isa.  i,  30.  But  streams  were  few  in  Palestine,  at 
least  such  as  afforded  water  in  summer,  when  alone  wa- 
ter was  wanted  for  irrigation : hence  rain-water,  or  wa- 


Ancient  Egyptians  watering  gardens  liy  buckets  carried 
on  the  shoulder,  and  by  means  of  the  well-sweep. 

ter  from  the  streams  which  dried  up  in  summer,  was  in 
winter  stored  up  in  reservoirs,  spacious  enough  to  con- 
tain all  the  water  likely  to  be  needed  during  the  dry 
season.  See  Pool;  Well.  In  fact,  many  of  our  own 
large  nurseries  are  watered  in  the  same  manner  from 
reservoirs  of  rain-water.  The  water  was  distributed 
through  the  garden  in  numerous  small  rills,  which  trav- 


Modern  Egyptian  Shaduf. 


662 


IRVING 


IR-SHEMESII 

ersed  it  in  all  directions,  and  which  were  supplied  either 
by  a continued  stream  from  the  reservoir,  or  had  water 
poured  into  them  by  the  gardeners,  in  the  manner  shown 
in  the  Egyptian  monuments  (see  Wilkinson,  Anc.  Eg. 
abridgm.  ij  3.‘3  sq.).  See  Gardes.  These  rills,  being 
turned  and  directed  by  the  foot,  gave  rise  to  the  phrase 
“ watering  by  the  foot,”  as  indicative  of  garden  irriga- 
tion (Deut.  xi,  10).  Thus  Dr.  Thomson  says  (Land  and 
Hook,  ii,  279),  “I  have  often  watched  the  gardener  at 
this  fatiguing  and  unhealthy  work.  When  one  place  is 
sufficiently  saturated,  he  pushes  aside  the  sandy  soil  be- 
tween it  and  the  next  furrow  with  his  foot,  and  thus 
continues  to  do  until  all  are  watered.”  The  reference, 
however,  may  be  to  certain  kinds  of  hydraulic  machines 
turned  by  the  feet,  such  as  the  small  water-wheels  used 
on  the  plain  of  Acre  and  elsewhere.  At  Hamath,  Da- 
mascus, and  other  places  in  Syria,  there  are  large  water- 
wheels, turned  by  the  stream,  used  to  raise  water  into 
aqueducts.  But  the  most  common  method  of  raising 
water  along  the  Nile  is  the  Shaduf  or  well-sweep  and 
bucket,  represented  on  the  monuments,  though  not  much 
used  in  Palestine.  (On  the  whole  subject,  see  Kitto, 
Nat.  Hist,  of  Pal.  p.  ccxciii  sq.).  See  Water. 

Ir-she'mesh  (Heb.  ul.  d'ad  "T?,  in  pause 

city  o/the  sun;  Sept.  7 r6\ig  Sdptg,  Vulg.  Hirse- 
mes,  id  est  civitas  solis),  a town  on  the  border  of  Dan, 
mentioned  between  Eshtaol  and  Shaalabbin  (Josh,  xix, 
41) ; probably  the  same  as  the  Betu-suejiesh  (q.  v.)  of 
Josh,  xv,  10. 

I'ru  (Hebrew  Tru',  citizen;  Sept.  ’Hpd,  Vulg. 
Hir),  the  first-named  of  the  sons  of  Caleb,  the  son  of 
Jephunneh  (1  Chron.  iv,  15).  B.C.  1618. 

Irvine,  Mathew,  a minister  of  the  German  Re- 
formed Church,  was  born  in  Cumberland  Co.,  Pa.,  De- 
cember 22, 1817.  In  early  life  he  was  a school-teacher. 
O11  account  of  his  piety  and  gifts  he  was  made  an  elder 
in  the  Church.  II is  call  to  the  ministry  then  became 
more  apparent  to  himself  and  to  others,  and  he  began 
the  study  of  theology  privately  with  his  pastor,  and  in 
1843  was  licensed  and  ordained.  He  took  charge  of 
feeble  and  scattered  German  Reformed  congregations  in 
Bedford  Co.,  Pa.,  where  he  did  the  work  of  a pioneer  in 
a truly  apostolic  spirit.  A number  of  separate  charges 
were  formed  from  time  to  time  out  of  parts  of  his  field. 
1 1 is  ministry  was  greatly  blessed,  and  the  wilderness 
and  solitary  places  all  around  became  glad.  He  accom- 
plished the  work  of  a long  life  in  a comparatively  few 
years,  and  died  in  peace  April  21, 1857. 

Irving,  Edward,  “the  great  London  preacher,  and 
promt. ter  of  a strange  fanaticism,  whose  name  thirty 
years  ago  was  in  everybody’s  mouth,  and  whose  career, 
so  strange,  grotesque,  solemn,  and  finally  so  sad,  was 
the  theme  of  the  sneers  of  the  thoughtless  and  of  the 
wonder  of  the  thoughtful,”  was  born  Aug.  15,  1792,  at 
Annan,  county  of  Dumfries,  Scotland,  where  his  father 
was  a tanner.  lie  was  piously  brought  tip,  having  been 
early  destined  by  his  ambitious  parents  for  the  ministry. 
He  was  educated  at  the  University  of  Edinburgh,  and 
shortly  after  graduation  (1805)  was  appointed  to  super- 
intend the  mathematical  school  at  Haddington,  whence 
be  removed  in  1812  to  Kirkcaldy  to  assume  the  duties  of 
a similar  but  more  eligible  position.  About  this  time 
he  also  began  his  theological  studies,  and,  in  accordance 
with  the  usage  of  his  alma  mater,  he  entered  as  one  of 
her  students  of  theology.  After  a stay  of  about  seven 
years,  having  completed  the  probation  required  by  the 
Church  of  Scotland,  he  attained,  by  action  of  the  Pres- 
bytery of  Annan,  to  “the  ambiguous  position  of  a li- 
censed preacher  and  candidate — a layman  in  fact,  though 
often  recognised  as  a clergyman  by  courtesy;  and  he 
only  waited  an  opportunity  to  escape  from  his  present 
occupation  to  that  for  which  he  had  been  formally  des- 
ignated.” But  not  finding  an  opening  immediately,  and 
tired  of  the  occupation  of  teaching,  lie  recommenced 
study  at  Edinburgh,  devoting  most  of  his  time  to  the 


writings  of  Bacon,  Hooker,  and  Jeremy  Taylor.  At 
last  there  came  an  invitation  to  preach  in  the  hearing 
of  the  celebrated  Dr.  Chalmers,  who  was  desirous  of 
procuring  for  himself  an  assistant  in  the  great  parish  of 
St.  John’s,  Glasgow ; and  shortly  after  Irving  was  cho- 
sen for  this  position,  and  so  enabled  to  begin  “ in  earn- 
est the  great  life-work  for  which  he  had  been  prepar- 
ing, and  which  he  had  anticipated  with  most  painful 
longings.  A parish  of  10,000  souls,  mostly  the  families 
of  poor  artisans  and  laborers,  composed  the  pastorate  of 
St.  John’s,  Glasgow,  and  Irving  at  once  entered  on  its 
varied  duties  with  all  his  energies.”  But  as  his  associ- 
ation in  this  parish  with  Dr.  Chalmers  only  afforded 
him  an  inferior  place,  he  soon  grew  dissatisfied  with  the 
position ; and,  his  preaching  having  secured  him  quite 
a favorable  reputation,  he  was  invited  to  the  great  Eng- 
lish metropolis  as  minister  of  the  Caledonian  Church,  a 
kirk  of  Scotland  in  Cross  Street,  Hatton  Garden.  Early 
in  July,  1822,  he  began  his  labors  in  this  little  out-of- 
the-way  church,  composed  of  only  fifty  members,  occa- 
sionally enlarged  by  some  stray  Scotchmen  visiting  the 
great  city.  In  a very  few  weeks  he  began  to  attract 
large  congregations;  in  three  months  the  applications 
for  seats  had  risen  to  1500 ; at  length  it  became  neces- 
sary to  exclude  the  general  public,  and  to  admit  only 
those  who  were  provided  with  tickets.  Statesmen,  or- 
ators, the  noble,  the  wealthy,  the  fashionable,  occupied 
the  seats  of  the  church,  and  their  carriages  thronged 
the  adjoining  streets.  His  ability  and  success  as  a 
preacher  are  thus  stated  by  a writer  on  “Henry  Drum- 
mond” in  the  London  Quart.  Review,  October,  1860,  p. 
275 : “ The  preacher’s  great  stature,  his  bushy  black  hair 
hanging  down  in  ringlets,  his  deep  voice,  his  solemn 
manner,  the  impressiveness  of  his  action,  his  broad  Scotch 
dialect,  his  antiquated  yet  forcible  st3'le,  all  combined  to 
rivet  attention,  and  made  3-011  feel  that  you  were  in  the 
presence  of  a power.  Nor  did  his  matter  belie  the  im- 
pression which  was  thus  created.  He  was  bent  upon 
accomplishing  the  end  of  the  Gospel  ministry-  in  saving 
souls  from  death;  and  at  the  beginning  of  his  course, 
before  the  disturbing  influences  of  his  position  had  done 
their  full  work  upon  him,  he  preached  with  great  force 
and  effect.”  The  influence  which  Irving  exerted  among 
all  classes  of  society  of  London  was  really  surprising. 
Such  an  amount  of  applause  as  was  awarded  to  his  pul- 
pit discourses  has  never  fallen  to  the  lot  of  man  since  his 
da\r,  excepting  perhaps  in  the  case  of  Spurgeon.  In 
1824,  a volume  containing  some  of  his  discourses  was 
sent  forth,  not  as  sermons,  but  under  the  title  of  Ora- 
tions : For  the  Oracles  of  God , four  Orations ; For 
Judgments  to  come,  an  A rgument  in  nine  Parts.  The 
author  shared  the  same  popular  favor  as  the  preacher, 
and  three  editions  of  the  book  were  sold  in  less  than 
half  a year.  “Aimless,  and  without  a wide  or  lasting 
interest,  curiously  quaint  in  style  and  manner,  while 
the  matter  generally  bears  upon  the  topics  of  the  pass- 
ing hour,  it  contains  1113113-  passages  of  extraordinary 
beauty  and  depth,  many  an  outpouring  of  lofty  devo- 
tion, and  frequent  bursts  of  the  most  passionate  elo- 
quence” ( Encyclop . Britan,  xii,  625).  But,  as  the  pro- 
duction of  the  preacher  of  the  little  Hatton  Garden 
chapel,  everybody  who  wished  to  be  up  with  the  times 
had  to  read  it,  and  so  it  soon  “became  the  talk  of  the 
town,  and  was  criticised  by  each  according  to  his  posi- 
tion and  temper.”  The  book  had  100113-  vulnerable 
points,  one  of  which,  not  the  least  perhaps,  was  the 
thrust  in  his  introduction  against  the  evident  lack  of 
success  of  the  ordinary  instructions  of  the  pulpit,  charg- 
ing it  all  as  the  result  of  the  defective  manner  of  preach- 
ing generally  prevalent  in  England  at  that  time.  But 
if  this  arrayed  a number  of  critics  against  him,  an  es- 
trangement of  the  great  body  of  contemporary-  evangel- 
ical Christians  011I3-  followed  his  course  of  action  in  1824. 
In  this  3'ear  he  was  called  upon,  as  one  of  the  pulpit 
1 eelehrities  of  the  great  metropolis,  to  preach  before  the 
London  Missionary  Society.  He  had  long  dreamed  of 
| a revival  of  apostolical  missions,  and  to  advance  “ these 


IRVING 


663 


IRVING 


sublime  fancies”  this  opportunity  afforded  him  scope. 
“For  three  mortal  hours  the  vast  assembly  was  held 
entranced  by  his  gorgeous  oratory  while  he  depicted, 
not  the  work  of  that  or  any  other  body,  but  a grand 
ideal  of  a mission  scheme  after  the  model  of  apostolic 
times.  During  all  this  time  the  managers  sat  in  pain- 
ful solicitude,  first  for  their  usual  collections,  and  ulti- 
mately for  the  damage  that  such  a discourse  must  entail 
upon  the  cause  in  which  they  were  engaged.  But  no- 
body could  suspect  the  preacher  of  a design  to  harm  the 
cause  he  was  called  to  advocate.  To  his  mind  the  mis- 
sionary work  was  not  the  same  thing  with  that  contem- 
plated by  the  society,  and,  as  he  spoke  from  his  own 
inflamed  fancy  and  full  heart,  his  utterances  were  for- 
eign to  the  subject  as  they  viewed  it.  But  the  discourse 
was  more  than  a blunder;  it  was  a burning  protest, 
though  undesigned,  against  the  spirit  of  cowardly  pru- 
dence in  which  the  work  of  missions  was,  and,  alas! 
that  it  must  be  said,  still  is  prosecuted.  It  unluckily 
struck  precisely  upon  those  points  which  annual  reports 
and  platform  orators  are  usually  careful  to  leave  un- 
touched, and  by  holding  up  the  bright  ideal  it  con- 
demned the  actual”  (Dr.  Curry). 

However  candid  may  have  been  his  manner  and  true 
the  zeal  for  the  Christian  cause  which  unquestionably 
impelled  Irving  at  this  time,  the  effect  was  to  estrange 
from  him  many  of  his  Christian  friends.  But  the  birth 
of  a son  for  a time  turned  his  attention  from  the  con- 
troversy which  his  acts  had  provoked  and  to  him,  so 
f md  of  home  life,  atoned  in  a measure  for  the  loss  of 
friends.  The  child,  however,  soon  died,  and  this  addi- 
tional loss  incited  him  to  the  study  of  prophecy.  His 
attention  had  already  been  called  in  this  direction  by 
Hatley  Frere,  “an  earnest  but  one-sided  student  of  the 
prophecies,”  who  was  propounding  about  this  time  a 
new  theory  of  interpretation,  the  especial  object  of  which 
wa3  to  establish  the  idea  of  a personal  reign  of  Christ 
on  earth.  The  study  and  translation  of  a Spanish  work 
on  this  subject,  generally  attributed  to  Bcn-Ezra,  but 
really  the  production  of  the  Jesuit  Lacunza  (q.  v.)  (pub- 
lished by  Irving  under  the  title  of  The  Coming  of  Mes- 
siah  in  Glorg  anti  Majesty),  aided  in  “turning  the  bal- 
ance of  Irving’s  mind  the  wrong  way  just  at  the  crisis 
of  his  intellectual  fate.  These  prophetical  studies  met 
an  original  bias  in  his  mind,  and  made  him  a fatal  prey 
to  religious  delusion.”  An  opportunity  soon  occurred 
to  lay  before  the  public  his  favorite  theory  of  the  mil- 
lennium by  an  invitation  from  the  Continental  Society 
to  preach  the  annual  sermon  (1825).  Like  the  mission- 
ary sermon  of  the  previous  year,  it  gave  rise  to  consid- 
erable commotion,  more  especially  among  the  friends 
of  “Catholic  Emancipation.”  England  at  this  time 
was  decidedly  in  favor  of  bestowing  upon  Roman  Cath- 
olics unlimited  political  power,  which  Irving  vehement- 
ly opposed.  A good  part  of  his  audience  left  their 
seat3  before  the  speaker  had  finished  his  discourse, 
which,  like  the  missionary  sermon,  occupied  some  “three 
or  more  hours  in  the  delivery.”  To  make  a bad  matter 
still  worse,  Irving  determined  to  publish  his  discourse, 
enlarged  and  rearranged,  in  book  form,  and  during  the 
next  year  sent  it  forth  under  the  title  Babylon  and  In- 
fidelity Foredoomed,  dedicating  it  “ to  my  beloved  friend 
and  brother  in  Christ,  Hatley  Frere,  Esq.”  “Irving 
now  threw  himself  unreservedly,”  says  Dr.  Curry,  “ into 
the  current  that  swept  him  away  from  his  moorings. 
By  the  strange  fascination  which  often  attends  the 
study  of  prophecy  and  the  expectation  of  a terrestrial 
millennium,  he  now  came  to  expect  the  speedy  coming 
of  Christ  to  set  up  his  kingdom  on  earth,  and  this 
wrought  in  him  the  usual  results  of  excitement  and  spe- 
cialty of  religious  thought  and  conversation.  He  had 
reached  that  stage  of  mental  excitemeut  in  which  al- 
most every  event  becomes  a proof  of  the  cherished  ex- 
pectation, and  the  mind’s  own  action  steadily  intensifies 
the  dominant  fascination.  In  this,  too,  he  craved  the 
sympathy  of  other  minds  inspired  with  the  same  senti- 
ments, and  these  he  readily  obtained ; a kind  of  mystic 


circle,  among  whom  were  Hatley  Frere,  now  relieved, 
of  his  isolation,  the  celebrated  Rabbin,  Dr.  Wolff,  Ir- 
ving himself,  and  Henry  Drummond,  with  others  less 
distinguished,  after  numerous  informal  conversations, 
at  length  came  together  in  a conference  at  Albury, 
the  hospitable  residence  of  Mr.  Drummond,  brought  to- 
gether, as  Irving  declared,  by  ‘a  desire  to  compare 
their  views  with  respect  to  the  prospects  of  the  Church 
at  this  present  crisis’”  (comp. art. ix,“On  Drummond,” 
in  the  London  Quart.  Review,  Oct.  18G0).  “Irving  sat 
down  with  his  motley  associates,  a giant  among  pig- 
mies, the  most  docile  of  the  company,  and  quite  ready 
to  yield  his  own  views  to  the  superficial  fancies  of  the 
least  distinguished  of  the  body,  and  to  surrender  his 
clearest  intellectual  convictions  to  what  was  styled  the 
answer  to  prayer.  From  such  sessions  the  only  proba- 
ble results  followed : the  fanaticism  in  which  they  be- 
gan was  heightened  and  confirmed,  especially  in  the 
single  mind  capable  of  being  damaged  by  it.” 

The  popularity  of  the  great  preacher,  however,  con- 
tinued unabated  in  the  midst  of  all  these  difficulties; 
nay,  his  late  meditations  and  yearnings  rather  increased 
his  reputation,  and  soon  a new  and  more  commodious 
church  had  to  be  provided  for  the  throngs  of  hearers 
that  weekly  came  to  listen  to  him.  The  money  for  the 
building  of  a new  edifice  was  easily  procured,  and  early 
in  1827  he  was  installed  pastor  of  the  newly-built  church 
in  Regent  Square,  Chalmers  preaching  on  the  occasion. 
“ The  transition  from  the  little  Caledonian  chapel,  so 
long  thronged  by  a promiscuous  crowd  of  London  fash- 
ionable life,  to  the  commodious  National  Scotch  Church 
in  Regent  Square,  with  its  well-ordered  and  well-defined 
congregation,  marks  the  culmination  and  the  beginning 
of  tlie  descent  of  Irving’s  popularity.”  Shortly  after  his 
removal  to  the  new  church,  he  again  ventured  before 
the  public  as  an  author  by  the  publication  of  three  vol- 
umes (1828)  selected  from  his  discourses  preached  since 
the  commencement  of  his  ministry  at  London.  Up  to 
this  time  many  of  the  extravagances  of  Irving  had 
more  or  less  displeased  his  brother  laborers  in  the  min- 
istry, but  no  one  had  ventured  to  attack  him  publicly 
until  “ an  idle  clergy  mail  called  Cole,”  of  whom  51  r.  Ir- 
ving’s biographer,  Mrs.  Oliphant,  can  barely  speak  with 
civility,  accused  Irving  of  inculcating  heterodox  doc- 
trines on  the  Incarnation  in  the  first  volume  of  his  ser- 
mons, which  treats  chiefly  of  the  Trinity;  first  of  the 
divine  character,  and  especially  of  the  person  and  work 
of  Christ.  “The  perfect  humanity  of  Christ  was  Ir- 
ving’s favorite  theme.  With  the  utmost  intensity  he 
clung  to  the  idea  of  the  brotherhood  of  his  Master — an 
idea  he  held  with  perfect  reverence.  The  first  shock 
of  the  charge  of  heresy,  and  of  heresy,  too,  in  relation 
to  his  adorable  Lord,  utterly  unmanned  him.  The  last 
thought  of  his  heart  would  have  been  to  derogate  from 
the  dignity  of  his  Master,  his  impassioned  reverence  for 
whom  had  probably  stimulated  the  teaching  which  now 
bore  the  brand  of  heresy”  (Lond.  Quart.  Rev.  Oct.  18G2, 
p.  193).  It  would  hardly  be  worth  while  to  follow  up 
the  controversy  incited  by  the  impertinent,  if  not  treach- 
erous conduct  of  51  r.  Cole  in  exaggerating  “an  error 
which  should  have  been  the  groundwork  of  a brotherly 
expostulation,”  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  for  these 
very  views  on  the  incarnation  Irving  was,  some  years 
later,  deposed  from  the  ministry.  As  we  have  already 
said,  he  was  the  last  of  all  persons  who  could  be  led  to 
believe  that  the  views  which  he  set  forth  on  this  sub- 
ject had  anything  novel  or  unusual  in  them.  All  that 
lie  was  possibly  guilty  of,  says  I)r.  Curry,  is  that  uhe 
took  in  a larger  view  which  contemplated  the  whole 
work  of  the  incarnation  of  the  Word  as  redemptive,  in 
that  by  it  the  Godhead  came  into  vital  union  with  human- 
ity, fallen  and  under  the  law.  This  last  thought  carried 
to  liis  realistic  mode  of  thinking  the  notion  of  Christ’s 
participation  in  the  fallen  character  of  humanity,  which 
he  designated  bv  terms  that  implied  a real  sinfulness  in 
Christ.  His  kttempt  to  get  rid  of  the  odiousness  of  that 
idea  by  saying  that  this  was  overborne  and  at  length 


664 


IRVING 


IRVING 


wholly  expelled  by  the  indwelling  Godhead  helped  the 
matter  but  little,  and  still  left  him  open  to  grave  een-  j 
sures  for  at  least  an  unhappy  method  of  statement.  But 
under  all  this  there  is  unquestionably  a most  precious 
Gospel  truth,  and  if  Irving  was  justly  condemned  for 
an  unwarrantable  misstatement  of  certain  doctrmes  of 
Christianity,  the  orthodoxy  of  the  age  may  be  justly 
called  to  account  for  its  partial  exhibition  of  those  doc- 
trines. For  centuries  the  Church  has  been  actively  oc- 
cupied in  setting  forth  and  defending  the  doctrine  of 
Christ’s  divinity,  until  that  of  his  humanity  has  largely 
fallen  out  of  its  thinkings.  It  is  quite  time  to  cease 
from  this  one-sidedness  and  to  take  in  a whole  Gospel. 
Fallen  humanity  demands  a sympathizing  no  less  than 
an  almighty  Saviour;  and  if  indeed  Jesus  is  to  be  that 
Saviour,  he  must  be  apprehended  by  our  faith,  as  ‘ man 
with  man,’  and  as  really  and  fully  ‘touched  with  a seme 
of  our  infirmities.’  The  Church  of  Home  answers  to  the 
heart’s  yearning  for  human  sympathy  in  the  .Mediator 
by  giving  that  office  to  Mary ; while  our  misformed 
practical  creeds  remove  Jesus  beyond  our  sympathies, 
and  give  us  no  other  Mediator.  The  Church  awaits 
the  coming  of  a John,  uprising  from  the  Saviour  s bos- 
om, to  set  forth  in  all  fulness  the  blessedness  of  the 
grace  of  Jesus,  the  incarnate  God,  who  hath  ‘ borne  our 
griefs  and  carried  our  sorrows.’”  With  this  charge  of 
heresy  advanced  against  him,  Irving  set  out  on  a visit 
to  his  native  land  “to  warn,  first  his  father’s  house  and 
kindred,  and  the  country  side  which  had  still  so  great  a 
hold  upon  his  heart,  and  then  universal  Scotland,  of  that 
advent  which  he  looked  for  with  undoubting  and  fer- 
vent expectations;”  and  brilliant  was  the  success  with 
which  he  saw  his  labors  crowned  wherever  he  went. 
For  once  he  was  a prophet  who  received  honors  in  his 
own  country.  Wherever  he  preached,  not  only  whole 
congregations  from  neighboring  towns  came  to  swell  his 
already  large  numbers  of  hearers,  but  oftentimes  even 
the  ministers  would  adjourn  their  services  and  go  with 
their  flocks  en  masse  to  hear  Scotland’s  noble  descend- 
ant. While  preaching  at  Edinburgh  on  the  Apocalypse, 
the  special  theme  of  study  in  these  later  years,  the  ser- 
vices began  at  six  o’clock  A.M.  Of  these  Chalmers 
writes:  “He  is  drawing  prodigious  crowds.  We  at- 
tempted this  morning  to  force  our  way  into  St.  Andrew’s 
Church,  but  it  was  all  in  vain.  He  changes  to  the  West 
Church,  with  its  three  hideous  galleries,  for  the  accom- 
modation of  the  public,”  and  even  then  there  was  not 
room.  As  in  Edinburgh,  so  was  his  success  at  Glasgow 
and  other  places  that  he  visited,  and  we  need  not  won- 
der that  Chalmers  himself  exclaims  “that  there  must 
have  been  a marvellous  power  of  attraction  that  could 
turn  a whole  population  out  of  their  beds  as  early  as  five 
in  the  morning.” 

As  if  to  augment  the  difficulties  already  in  his  way, 
in  his  candid  and  straightforward  manner,  he  further 
estranged  his  friends  of  the  Scottish  Church  bv  extend- 
ing his  sympathy  to  a minister  of  his  native  Church,  a 
Mr.  Campbell,  of  How,  who  was  just  then  under  the  odi- 
um of  teaching  false  notions  on  the  1‘rocrustian  high- 
Calvinistic  doctrine  of  the  Atonement  as  set  forth  in  the 
Westminster  Confession. 

But  the  grand  and  final  divergence  from  his  mother 
Church  further  resulted,  not  from  the  communication 
of  any  doctrinal  excitement  from  the  banks  of  Guirloeli, 
but  from  a very  strange  phenomenon  which  about,  this 
time  took  its  rise  along  the  quiet  banks  of  this  river. 
For  some  time  Irving  had  been  pondering  on  the  heri- 
tage of  the  r/ift  of  tontjnes  (q.  v. ; see  also  Gifts'!,  and 
was  inclined  to  believe  this  spiritual  gift  to  have  been 
not  only  possessed  by  the  apostolic  Church,  but  an  act- 
ual heritage  of  the  Church  of  all  times;  indeed,  a neces- 
sary condition  for  the  healthy  state  of  anv  Church  of 
Christ.  These  thoughts  of  his  became  convictions  when 
seconded  at  this  juncture  by  some  remarkable,  instances. 
In  the  locality  of  Bow,  celebrated  for  the  piety  of  its 
inhabitants,  there  had  lived  and  died  a young  woman, 
Isabella  Campbell  by  name,  of  rare  and  saintly  charac- 


ter. A memoir  which  her  minister  had  written  of  her 
attracted  the  attention  of  people  far  and  near,  and  many 
of  them  came  as  pilgrims  to  visit  the  spot  where  she 
had  lived  and  prayed.  These  visits  to  the  earthly 
dwelling-place,  as  well  as  the  noble  reputation,  if  not 
example  of  a departed  sister,  had  a wonderful  infinence 
on  the  surviving  sister  Mary — “ gifted  with  the  same 
spiritual  temperament,  with  powers  of  mind  of  no  ordi- 
nary character,  and,  moreover,  with  the  personal  fasci- 
nation of  beauty,"  For  a long  time  she  had  been  af- 
flicted with  the  same  disease  which  had  made  a prey  of 
her  sister,  and  while  lying,  as  all  believed,  at  the  point 
of  death,  she  professed  to  have  received  “ the  gift  of 
tongues,”  and,  “ as  she  lay  in  her  weakness,”  the  Holy 
Ghost,  they  said,  had  come  upon  her  with  mighty  pow- 
er, and  “constrained  her  to  speak  at  great  length,  and 
with  superhuman  strength,  in  an  unknown  tongue.” 
Similar  cases  occurred  in  other  neighboring  places, 
and  the  news  of  the  wondrous  phenomena  soon  reached 
the  ears  of  Irving.  To  him,  of  course,  these  indicated 
“ an  approaching  realization  of  his  prophetic  dreams.” 
Not  for  an  instant  was  he  to  hesitate  to  acknowledge 
them  as  the  natural  answer  of  his  aspirations  and  pray- 
er ; and  many  of  his  own  flock,  prepared  by  his  pre- 
vious teachings,  seconded  his  leanings  in  favor  of  these 
long-lost  spiritual  gifts.  Manifestations  of  a similar 
character  soon  appeared  in  his  own  Church,  at  first  pri- 
vately, then  at  the  week-day  matins,  and  finally  even 
in  the  public  service  on  the  Sabbath.  “ The  die”  had 
truly  been  “cast,  and  from  that  time  the  Regent  Square 
church  became  a Babel.”  His  oldest  and  most  discreet 
friends  one  by  one  deserted  him,  finding  that  their  coun- 
sel was  of  no  avail.  Even  a visit  of  Chalmers  and 
Coleridge,  both  his  friends,  could  not  in  the  least  stay 
the  current  that  was  fast  hurrying  him  to  a most 
frightful  abyss.  A collision  between  the  pastor  and  his 
flock  was  inevitable,  though  some  of  his  people  shared 
his  views.  Against  the  continuation  of  the  “ new  proph- 
ets” even  his  own  brother-in-law  voted,  and  the  inev- 
itable result  was  of  course  the  ejectment  of  the  minis- 
ter and  his  believers  in  the  “gilt  of  tongues”  from  Re- 
gent Square  Church.  But  it  must  not  be  supposed  that 
a man  of  Irving’s  great  abilities,  though  his  course  was 
now  downward,  was  surrounded  only  by  a few  weak  fol- 
lowers. Among  those  who  faithfully  followed  their  pas- 
tor were  some  of  London’s  most  distinguished  charac- 
ters, and  when  on  the  following  Sunday  he  met  his  ad- 
herents in  the  hall  of  the  great  infidel  Owen,  no  less 
than  800  were  there  to  partake  of  the  Lord’s  Supper. 
Indeed,  the  place  they  had  temporarily  secured  was  far 
too  small  to  contain  all  that  still  flocked  to  hear  Irving, 
and  they  removed  to  a large  gallery  in  Newman  Street, 
generally  designated  as  West’s  Gallery,  because  it  had 
formerly  belonged  to  West  the  painter.  The  denoue- 
ment of  the  play  had  now  fairly  begun,  and  it  rapidly 
hastened  to  its  close.  The  “gifted  or.es”  at  Newman 
Street  had  things  in  their  own  hands,  and  everything 
proceeded  by  “ vision,”  and  “ prophecy,”  and  in  the 
“Spirit;”  to  all  which  Irving  gave  the  most  reverent 
and  obedient  attention.  The  Presbytery  of  Annan,  by 
which  body  Irving  had  been  first  licensed  to  preach,  but 
not  ordained,  “ by  a remarkable  stretch  of  power”  con- 
I demned  him  as  guilty  of  heresy,  and  excommunicated 
I him  from  the  Church  of  Scotland.  But  as  if  his  cup  of 
sorrows  was  not  yet  sufficiently  bitter,  to  add  to  the  con- 
demnation which  he  had  just  received  at  the  baud  of 
his  mother  Church,  which  he  so  dearly  loved,  he  was, 
j on  his  return  from  Annan  to  London,  deprived  even  by 
, his  own  adherents  of  the  authority  which  by  reason  of 
his  superiority  had  universally  been  granted  to  him,  and, 
in  accordance  with  a “revelation,”  was  interdicted  “ from 
exercising  any  priestly  function,  or  administering  the 
sacraments,  or  even  preaching,  excepting  to  those  less 
sacred  assemblies  to  which  unbelievers  were  admitted. 
Astounded,  he  yet  uttered  no  murmur,  but  sat  in  the 
lowest  places  of  the  Church  which  he  himself  had  cre- 
ated, in  silent  and  resigned  humility.”  Mr.  Andrews,  in 


ISAAC 


665 


ISAAC 


an  article  on  Irving  in  the  New  Englander  (1863,  p.  816 
sq.),  seeks  to  refute  this  statement,  so  generally  accept- 
ed as  made  by  Mrs.  Qliphant  in  her  biography  of  Mr. 
Irving.  But  even  Mr.  Andrews  acknowledges  that  when 
Mr.  Irving  was  finally  reordained  by  these  “ superior”  of- 
ficers, who  claimed  to  have  been  called  by  God  to  high- 
er distinctions,  his  position  “ was  in  some  respects  less  in- 
dependent than  before,”  and  that  it  could  not  have  been 
otherwise  than  “ that  Mr.  Irving  should  have  met  with 
trials  and  difficulties  in  the  progress  of  the  work  un- 
der his  new  phase,”  especially  “a  man  of  his  great 
strength  of  character,  and  gifts  for  leadership,  accus- 
tomed hitherto  to  be  foremost  in  whatever  he  engaged 
in”  (p.  821).  But  for  once  fortune  favored  Irving.  The 
great  degradation  which  he  was  called  upon  to  sutler 
was  to  be  bis  last,  and  a short  one  at  that.  In  the  au- 
tumn of  1834,  the  severe  task  which  he  bad  been  im- 
posing on  his  mind  and  body  began  to  tell  upon  him, 
and  while  on  a journey  to  Scotland  for  the  recovery  of 
his  failing  health,  he  was  taken  dangerously  ill,  and  died 
at  Glasgow  Dec.  8, 1834. 

Of  Irving  it  may  truly  be  conceded  that  a more  de- 
vout or  earnest  spirit  has  not  appeared  on  the  stage  of 
time  in  the  19th  century.  Destined  to  be  a Christian 
minister,  “he  strove”  (said  of  him  a friend  who  knew 
him  well),  “with  all  the  force  that  was  in  him,  to  be  it. 
He  might  have  been  so  many  things;  not  a speaker 
only,  but  a doer — the  leader  of  hosts  of  men.  For  his 
head,  when  the  fog  of  Babylon  had  not  yet  obscured  it, 
was  of  strong,  far-reaching  insight.  Ilis  very  enthusi- 
asm was  sanguine,  not  atrabiliar ; he  was  so  loving,  full 
of  hope,  so  simple-hearted,  and  made  all  that  approach- 
ed him  bis.  A giant  form  of  activity  was  in  the  man  ; 
speculation  was  accident,  not  nature.  There  was  in  him 
a courage  dauntless,  not  pugnacious;  hardly  fierce, by  no 
possibility  ferocious ; as  of  the  generous  war-horse,  gen- 
tle in  its  strength,  yet  that  laughs  at  the  shaking  of  the 
spear.  But,  above  all,  be  he  what  he  might,  to  be  a real- 
ity was  indispensable  for  him.”  In  another  place  the 
same  friend  exclaims:  “But  for  Irving  I had  never 
known  what  the  communion  of  man  with  man  means. 
His  was  the  freest,  brotherliest,  bravest  human  soul  mine 
ever  came  in  contact  with.  I call  him,  on  the  whole, 
the  best  man  I have  ever,  after  trial  enough,  found  in 
this  world,  or  now  hope  to  find.”  Similar  was  the  judg- 
ment of  all  Irving’s  friends,  and  even  of  most  of  his  op- 
ponents. “All  admired  the  man,  bis  many  virtues,  his 
matchless  eloquence ; all  deplored  bis  fall,  and  the  gulf 
of  separation  which  it  created  between  him  and  his 
mother  Church.”  Ilis  works  have  been  collected  by  his 
nephew,  the  Rev.  1*.  Carlyle,  who  has  published  them 
under  the  title  of  Collected  Writings  of  Edward  Irving 
(Loud.  1864-5,  5 vols.  8vo).  See  Mrs.  bliphant,  Life  of 
Edward  Irving  (Loud.  1862;  N.  V.  [Harpers’]  1862, 8vo); 
Carlyle,  Miscellaneous  Essays  ; Meth.  Qu.  Rev.  Jan.  1849  ; 
1863;  Land.  Quart.  Rev.  Oct.  1862,  art.  vi ; Edinb.  Rev. 
Oct.  1862,  art.  vii ; Encyclop.  Britann.  xii,  s.  v. ; Baring 
Gould,  Post  Mediieral  Preachers  (of  England  only);  Lit- 
tell’s  Living  Age  (on  Irving’s  works),  Feb.  23,  1867,  art. 
i;  and  31.  \V.  Andrews  (of  the  Catholic  Apostolic  Church, 
the  name  now  assumed  by  the  Irviugites),  in  the  New 
Englatider,  July,  1863,  art.  i ; Oct.,  art.  vii  i.  (J.  II.  W.) 

I'saac  (Heb.  Yitschak',  p“L'n,  laughter , in  the  poet, 
books  sometimes  pSTIP,  Yischak',  Psa.  cv,  9;  Jer.  xxxiii, 
26;  Amos  vii,  9,  16,  in  the  last  two  passages  spoken  of 
the  Israelitish  nation;  Sept,  and  N.  T.  ’ innate,  Joseph. 
"Imncoc,  Ant.  i,  10,  5),  the  only  son  of  Abraham  by  Sa- 
rah, and  the  middle  one  of  the  three  patriarchs  who  are 
so  often  named  together  as  the  progenitors  of  the  Jew- 
ish race. 

I.  Personal  History.  — The  following  are  the  facts 
which  the  Bible  supplies  of  the  longest-lived  of  the 
three  patriarchs,  the  least  migratory,  the  least  prolific, 
and  the  least  favored  with  extraordinary  divine  revela- 
tions. A few  events  in  this  quiet  life  have  occasioned 
discussion. 


1.  The  promise  of  a son  had  been  made  to  his  parents 
when  Abraham  was  visited  bv  the  Lord  in  the  plains 
of  3Iamre,  and  appeared  so  unlikely  to  be  fulfilled,  see- 
ing that  both  Abraham  and  Sarah  were  “well  stricken 
in  years,”  that  its  utterance  eaused  the  latter  to  laugh 
incredulously  (Gen.  xviii,  1 sq.).  B.C.  2064.  Being 
reproved  for  her  unbelief,  she  denied  that  she  had 
laughed.  The  reason  assigned  for  the  special  visitation 
thus  promised  was,  in  effect,  that  Abraham  was  pious, 
and  would  train  his  offspring  in  piety,  so  that  he  would 
become  the  founder  of  a great  nation,  and  all  the  nations 
of  the  earth  should  be  blessed  in  him.  See  Abraham. 
In  due  time  Sarah  gave  birth  to  a son,  who  received 
the  name  of  Isaac  (Gen.  xxi,  1-3).  B.C.  2063.  This 
event  occurred  at  Gerar.  Isaac  was  thus  emphatically 
the  child  of  promise.  Born,  as  he  was,  out  of  due  time, 
when  his  father  was  a hundred  years  old  and  his  moth- 
er ninety,  the  parents  themselves  laughed  with  a kind 
of  incredulous  joy  at  the  thought  of  such  a prodigy 
(Gen.  xvii,  17 ; xviii,  12),  and  referring  to  the  marvel- 
lousness of  the  event  when  it  had  actually  taken  place, 
Sarah  said  that  not  only  she,  but  all  who  heard  of  it, 
would  be  disposed  to  laugh  (Gen.  xxi,  6).  The  name 
Isaac,  therefore,  was  fitly  chosen  by  God  for  the  child, 
in  commemoration  of  the  extraordinary,  supernatural 
nature  of  the  birth,  and  of  the  laughing  joy  which  it 
occasioned  to  those  more  immediately  interested  in  it. 
This  signification  of  Isaac’s  name  is  thrice  alluded  to 
(Gen.  xvii,  17;  xviii,  12;  xxi,  6).  Josephus  (.4nf.  i, 
12,  2)  refers  to  the  second  of  those  passages  for  the  or- 
igin of  the  name  ; Jerome  (Qncest.  llebr.  in  Gen. ) vehe- 
mently confines  it  to  the  first;  Ewald  ( Gesch . i,  425), 
without  assigning  reasons,  gives  it  as  bis  opinion  that 
all  three  passages  have  been  added  by  different  writers 
to  the  original  record.  There  need  be  no  dispute  as  to 
which  of  these  passages  the  import  of  the  name  refers; 
it  includes  a reference  to  them  all,  besides  according 
with  and  expressing  the  happy,  cheerful  disposition  of 
the  bearer,  and  suggesting  the  relation  in  which  he 
stood,  as  the  seed  of  Abraham,  the  channel  of  the  prom- 
ised blessing,  and  the  type  of  him  who  is  pre-eminently 
the  Seed,  whose  birth  has  put  laughter  into  the  hearts 
of  myriads  of  our  race.  The  preternatural  birth  of  Isaac 
was  a sign  from  heaven  at  the  outset,  indicating  what 
kind  of  seed  God  expected  as  the  fruit  of  the  covenant, 
and  what  powers  would  be  required  for  its  production — 
that  it  should  be  a seed  at  once  coming  in  the  course  of 
nature,  and  yet  in  some  sense  above  nature- — the  special 
gift  and  offspring  of  God.  When  Isaac  was  eight  days 
old  he  received  circumcision,  and  was  thus  received  into 
the  covenant  made  with  his  father;  while  his  mother’s 
sceptical  laughter  was  turned  into  triumphant  exulta- 
tion and  joy  in  God  (Gen.  xxi,  4-7).  (See  De  Wette, 
Krit.  p.  133  sq. ; Ewald,  Gesch.  i,  38* ; Hartmann,  Ueber 
d.  rent  at.  p.  269 ; Lengerke,  Ken.  p.  290 ; Niemeyer,  Cha- 
ract.  ii,  160.)  See  Name. 

2.  The  first  noticeable  circumstance  in  the  life  of 
Isaac  took  place  in  connection  with  his  weaning.  His 
precise  age  at  the  time  is  not  given,  but  we  may  sup- 
pose him  to  have  been  (according  to  Eastern  custom) 
fully  two  years  old.  In  honor  of  the  occasion  Abra- 
ham made  a great  feast,  as  an  expression,  no  doubt,  of 
his  joy  that  the  child  had  reached  this  fresh  stage  in 
his  career — was  no  longer  a suckling,  but  capable  of  self- 
sustenance,  and  a certain  measure  of  independent  ac- 
tion. For  the  parents,  and  those  who  sympathized  with 
them,  it  would  naturally  be  a feast  of  laughter — the 
laughter  of  mirth  and  joy ; but  there  was  one  in  the 
family — Ishmael — to  whom  it  was  no  occasion  of  glad- 
ness, who  saw  himself  supplanted  in  the  more  peculiar 
honors  of  the  house  by  this  younger  brother,  and  who 
mocked  while  others  laughed — himself,  indeed,  laughed 
(for  it  is  the  same  word  still,  p~li*£,  Gen.  xxi,  9),  but 
with  the  envious  and  scornful  air  which  betrayed  the 
alien  and  hostile  spirit  that  lurked  in  his  bosom.  He 
must  have  been  a well-grown  boy  at  the  time ; and  Sa- 
rah, descrying  in  the  manifestations  then  given  the  sure 


ISAAC 


666 


ISAAC 


presage  of  future  rivalry  and  strife,  urged  Abraham  to 
east  forth  the  bondmaid  and  her  son,  since  the  one  could 
not  be  a co-heir  with  the  other.  Abraham,  it  would 
seem,  hesitated  for  a time  about  the  matter,  feeling  pain- 
ed at  the  thought  of  having  Ishmael  separated  from  the 
household,  and  only  complied  when  he  received  an  ex- 
plicit warrant  and  direction  from  above.  At  the  same 
time,  he  got  the  promise,  as  the  ground  of  the  divine 
procedure,  “ For  in  Isaac  shall  thy  seed  be  called,”  that 
is,  in  Isaac  (as  contradistinguished  from  Ishmael.  or  any 
other  sou)  shall  the  seed  of  blessing  that  is  to  hold  of 
thee  as  a father  have  its  commencement.  It  is  proba- 
ble that  Abraham  needed  to  have  this  truth  brought 
sharply  out  to  him,  for  correction  on  the  one  side,  as 
well  as  for  consolation  and  hope  on  the  other,  as  his  pa- 
ternal feelings  may  have  kept  him  from  apprehending 
the  full  scope  of  former  revelations  concerning  the  son 
of  tlagar.  The  high  purposes  of  God  were  involved  in 
the  matter,  and  the  yearnings  of  natural  affection  must 
give  way,  that  these  might  be  established.  In  the  trans- 
actions themselves  the  apostle  Paul  perceived  a revela- 
tion of  the  truth  for  all  times — especially  in  regard  to 
the  natural  enmity  of  the  heart  to  the  things  of  God, 
and  the  certainty  with  which,  even  when  wearing  the 
badge  of  a religious  profession,  it  may  be  expected  to 
vent  its  malice  and  opposition  towards  the  true  children 
of  God  (Rom.  ix,  7, 10 ; Gal.  iv,  28 ; Ileb.  xi,  18).  The 
seed  of  blessing,  those  who  are  supernatifrally  born  of 
God,  like  Isaac,  and  have  a special  interest  in  the  riches 
of  his  goodness,  are  sure  to  be  eyed  with  jealousy,  and, 
in  one  form  or  another,  persecuted  by  those  who,  with  a 
name  to  live,  still  walk  after  the  tlesh  (Gal.  iv,  21-31). 
See  Ishmael. 

It  has  been  asked,  what  were  the  persecutions  sustain- 
ed by  Isaac  from  Ishmael  to  which  Paul  refers  (Gal.  iv, 
29) '{  If,  as  is  generally  supposed,  he  refers  to  Gen.  xxi, 
9,  then  the  word  ira'i^ovra,  may  be  translated 

mocking,  as  in  the  A.  V.,  or  insulting,  as  in  xxxix,  14, 
and  in  that  case  the  trial  of  Isaac  was  by  means  of 
“ cruel  mockings”  (ifnraiypwv),  in  the  language  of  the 
Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  (xi,36).  Or  the  word  may  in- 
clude the  signification  paying  idolatrous  vorship,  as  in 
Exod.  xxxii,  f>,  or  fighting,  as  in  2 Sam.  ii,  14.  These 
three  significations  are  given  by  Jarchi,  who  relates  a 
Jewish  tradition  (quoted  more  briefly  by  AVetstein  on 
Gal.  iv,  29)  of  Isaac  suffering  personal  violence  from 
Ishmael,  a tradition  which,  as  A1  r.  Ellicott  thinks,  was 
adopted  by  Paul.  The  English  reader  who  is  content 
with  our  own  version,  or  the  scholar  who  may  prefer 
either  of  the  other  renderings  of  Jarchi,  will  be  at  no 
loss  to  connect  Gal.  ix,  29  with  Gen.  xxi,  9.  But  Ori- 
gen  (in  Gen.  Horn,  vii,  § 3),  and  Augustine  (Sermo  iii), 
and  apparently  Prof.  Jowett  (on  Gal.  iv,  29),  not  observ- 
ing that  the  gloss  of  the  Sept,  and  the  Latin  versions 
“ playing  with  her  son  Isaac"  forms  no  part  of  the  sim- 
ple statement  in  Genesis,  and  that  the  words  pIT^p, 
iraiZovTa,  are  not  to  be  confined  to  the  meaning  “play- 
ing,” seem  to  doubt  (as  Mr.  Ellicott  does  on  other 
grounds)  whether  the  passage  in  Genesis  bears  the  con- 
struction apparently  put  upon  it  by  St.  Paul.  On  the 
other  hand,  Roseuni  idler  ( Schol . in  Gen.  xxi,  9)  even 
goes  so  far  as  to  characterize  iciwKf — “persecuted” — as 
a very  excellent  interpretation  of  (Sec  Drusius 

on  Gen.  xxi,  9,  in  Crit.  Sacr.,  and  Estius  on  Gal.  iv,  20.) 

AVliat  effect  the  companionship  of  the  wild  and  way- 
ward Ishmael  might  have  had  on  Isaac  it  is  not  easy  to 
say:  but  his  expulsion  was,  no  doubt,  ordered  by  God 
for  the  good  of  the  child  of  promise,  and  most  probably 
saved  him  from  many  an  annoyance  and  sorrow.  Freed 
from  such  evil  influence,  the  child  grew  up  under  the 
nurturing  care  of  his  fond  parents,  mild  and  gentle,  lov- 
ing and  beloved. 

3.  'I'lie  next  recorded  event  in  the  life  of  Isaac  is  the 
memorable  one  connected  with  the  command  of  God  to 
offer  him  up  as  a sacrifice  on  a mountain  in  the  laud  of 
Moriah  (Gen.  xxii).  B.C.  cir.  2047.  Nothing  is  said 


of  his  age  at  the  time  except  that  he  is  called  “ a lad” 
3),  perhaps  sixteen  years  of  age.  According  to  Jo- 
sephus (.4  nt.  i,  13, 2),  he  was  twenty-five  years  old.  That 
Isaac  knew  nothing  of  the  relation  in  wrhich  he  person- 
ally stood  to  the  divine  command,  came  affectingly  out 
in  the  question  he  put  to  his  father  while  they  journey- 
ed together,  “Behold  the  fire  and  the  wood, but  where 
is  the  lamb  for  a b unit-offering?”  Even  then  the  se- 
cret was  not  disclosed  to  him ; and  only,  it  would  ap- 
pear, when  the  act  itself  was  in  process  of  being  con- 
summated, did  the  fearful  truth  burst  upon  his  soul  that 
he  was  himself  to  be  the  victim  on  the  altar.  Yet  the 
sacred  narrative  tells  of  no  remonstrant  struggle  on  the 
part  of  this  child  of  promise,  no  strivings  for  escape,  no 
cries  of  agony  or  pleadings  for  deliverance : he  seems  to 
have  surrendered  himself  as  a willing  sacrifice  to  the 
call  of  Heaven,  and  to  have  therein  showed  how  thor- 
oughly in  him,  as  in  his  believing  parent,  the  mind  of 
the  flesh  had  become  subordinate  to  the  mind  of  the 
spirit.  To  act  thus  was  to  prove  himself  the  fitting 
type  of  him  who  had  the  law  of  God  in  his  heart,  and 
came  to  do,  not  his  own  will,  but  the  will  of  him  that 
sent  him.  But  the  death  itself,  which  was  to  prove  the 
life  of  the  world,  it  belonged  to  the  antitype,  not  to  the 
type,  to  accomplish.  The  ram  provided  by  God  in  the 
thicket  must  meanwhile  take  the  place  of  the  seed  of 
blessing.  In  the  surrender  by  the  father  of  his  “ only 
son,”  the  concurrence  of  the  son’s  will  with  the  father’s, 
the  sacrificial  death  which  virtually  took  place,  and  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead,  whence  Abraham  received 
his  son  “in  figure”  (Ileb.  xi,  19),  are  all  points  of  anal- 
ogy which  cannot  be  overlooked. 

The  offering  up  of  Isaac  by  Abraham  has  been  view- 
ed  in  various  lights.  It  is  the  subject  of  five  disserta- 
tions by  Frischmuth  in  the  Thes.  Theol.  Philol.  p.  197 
(attached  to  Crit.  Sacri ; originally  Jena,  1062-5,  4to). 
By  bishop  AATarburton  (Dir.  Leg.  b.  vi,  § 5)  the  whole 
transaction  was  regarded  as  “ merely  an  information  by 
action  (comp.  Jer.  xxvii,  2 ; Ezek.  xii,  3 ; Hos.  i,  2),  in- 
stead of  words,  of  the  great  sacrifice  of  Christ  for  the  re- 
demption of  mankind,  given  at  the  earnest  request  of 
Abraham,  who  longed  impatiently  to  see  Christ’s  day.” 
This  view  is  adopted  by  dean  Graves  (On  the  Pinta- 
tench,  pt.  iii,  § 4),  and  has  become  popular.  But  it  is 
pronounced  to  be  unsatisfactory  by  Davidson  (Primitive 
Sticrifice,  pt.  iv,  § 2),av1io,  pleading  for  the  progressive 
communication  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Christian  atone- 
ment, protests  against  the  assumption  of  a contempo- 
rary disclosure  of  the  import  of  the  sacrifice  to  Abra- 
ham, and  points  out  that  no  expiation  or  atonement  was 
joined  with  this  emblematic  oblation,  which  consequent- 
ly symbolized  only  the  act,  not  the  power  or  virtue  of 
the  Christian  sacrifice.  Air.  Maurice  ( Patriarchs  and 
Lairgirers,  iv)  draws  attention  to  the  offering  of  Isaac 
as  the  last  and  culminating  point  (compare  Ewald,  Ge- 
schichte,  i,  430-4)  in  the  divine  education  of  Abraham, 
that  which  taught  him  the  meaning  and  ground  of  self- 
sacrifice.  The  same  line  of  thought  is  followed  up  in  a 
very  instructive  and  striking  sermon  on  the  sacrifice  of 
Abraham  in  Doctrine  of  Sacrifice,  iii,  33-48.  Some  Ger- 
man writers  have  spoken  of  the  whole  transaction  as  a 
dream  (Eichhorn,  Biblioth.f  hill.  Liter,  i,  45  sq.),  or  a 
myth  (I)e  AYette),  or  as  the  explanation  of  a hieroglyph 
(Otman,  in  Henke’s  Magazin,  ii,  517),  and  treat  other 
events  in  Isaac’s  life  as  slips  of  the  pen  of  a Jewish 
transcriber.  Even  the  merit  of  novelty  cannot  be  claim- 
ed for  such  views,  which  appear  to  have  been  in  some 
measure  forestalled  in  the  time  of  Augustine  (Sermo  ii, 
De.  tentatione  Abrahrp).  They  are,  of  course,  irrecon- 
cilable with  the  declaration  of  St.  James,  that  it  was  a 
work  by  which  Abraham  was  justified.  Eusebius  ( Preep . 
Prang,  iv,  1G,  and  i,  10)  has  preserved  a singular  and 
inaccurate  version  of  the  offering  of  Isaac  in  an  extract 
from  the  ancient.  Phoenician  historian  Sanehoniathon ; 
but  it  is  absurd  to  suppose  that  the  widely-spread  (see 
Ewald,  .4  Itherthiimer,  p.79,  and  Thomson’s  Hampton  Lec- 
tures, 1853,  p.  38)  heathen  practice  of  sacrificing  human 


ISAAC 


667 


ISAAC 


beings  (so  Bruns,  in  Paulus’s  Memorab.  vi,  1 sq.)  re- 
ceived any  encouragement  from  a sacrifice  which  Abra- 
ham was  forbidden  to  accomplish  (see  Waterland,  Works, 
iv,  203).  Some  writers  have  found  for  this  transaction 
a kind  of  parallel — it  amounts  to  no  more— in  the  clas- 
sical legends  of  Iphigenia  and  Phrixns  (so  Rosen  miiller, 
Morgenl.  i,  95),  etc.  (see  J.  G.  Michaelis,  De  Abr.  et  Is. 
a Grinds  in  Ifyrilum  et  Orionem  conversis , Frcft.  a.  O. 
1721 ; Zeihich,  Isuad  ortus  in  fabula  Orionis  vestigia, 
Ger.  1776).  The  story  of  Iphigenia,  which  inspired 
the  devout  Athenian  dramatist  with  sublime  notions  of 
the  import  of  sacrifice  and  suffering  (xEsch.  A gam.  147, 
et  scq.),  supplied  the  Roman  infidel  only  with  a keen 
taunt  against  religion  (Lucret.  i,  102),  just  as  the  great 
trial  which  perfected  the  faith  of  Abraham  and  mould- 
ed the  character  of  Isaac  draws  from  the  Romanized 
Jew  of  the  first  century  a rhetorical  exhibition  of  his  I 
'own  unacquaintance  with  the  meaning  of  sacrifice  (see  I 
Joseph.  A at.  i,  13, 3).  The  general  aim  of  certain  writ- 
ers has  been,  as  they  consider  it,  to  relieve  the  Bible 
from  the  odium  which  the  narrated  circumstances  are 
in  their  opinion  fitted  to  occasion.  That  the  passage  is 
free  from  every  possible  objection  it  may  be  too  much 
to  assert:  it  is,  however,  equally  clear  that  many  of  the 
objections  taken  to  it  arise  from  viewing  the  facts  from 
a wrong  position,  or  under  the  discoloring  medium  of  a 
foregone  and  adverse  conclusion.  The  only  proper  way 
is  to  consider  it  as  it  is  represented  in  the  sacred  page. 
The  command,  then,  was  expressly  designated  to  try 
Abraham’s  faith.  Destined  as  the  patriarch  was  to  be 
the  father  of  the  faithful,  was  he  worthy  of  his  high  and 
dignified  position?  If  his  own  obedience  was  weak,  he 
could  not  train  others  in  faith,  trust,  and  love  : hence  a 
trial  was  necessary.  That  he  was  not  without  holy  dis- 
positions was  already  known,  and  indeed  recognised  in 
the  divine  favors  of  which  he  had  been  the  object;  but 
was  he  prepared  to  do  and  to  suffer  all  God’s  will  ? Re- 
ligious perfection  and  his  position  alike  demanded  a per- 
fect heart:  hence  the  kind  of  trial.  If  he  were  willing 
to  surrender  even  his  only  child,  and  act  himself  both 
as  offerer  and  priest  in  the  sacrifice  of  the  required  vic- 
tim, if  he  could  so  far  conquer  his  natural  affections,  so 
subdue  the  father  in  his  heart,  then  there  could  be  no 
doubt  that  his  will  was  wholly  reconciled  to  God's,  and 
that  he  was  worthy  of  every  trust,  confidence,  and  honor 
(comp.  Janies  ii,  21).  The  trial  was  made,  the  fact  was 
ascertained, but  the  victim  was  not  slain.  What  is  there 
in  this  to  which  either  religion  or  morality  can  take 
exception?  This  view  is  both  confirmed  and  justified 
by  the  words  of  God  (Gen.  xxii,  16  sq.),  “ Because  thou 
hast  not  withheld  thy  only  son,  in  blessing  I will  bless 
thee,  and  in  multiplying  I will  multiply  thy  seed  as  the 
stars  of  the  heaven,  and  in  t hy  seed  shall  all  the-  nations 
of  the  earth  be  blessed.”  We  remark,  also,  that  not  a 
part,  out  the  whole  of  the  transaction  must  be  taken  un- 
der consideration,  and  especially  the  final  result.  If  we 
dwell  exclusively  on  the  commencement  of  it,  there  ap- 
pears to  be  some  sanction  given  to  human  sacrifices; 
but  the  end,  and  the  concluding  and  ever-enduring  fact, 
has  the  directly  opposite  bearing.  Viewed  as  a whole, 
the  transaction  is,  in  truth,  an  express  prohibition  of 
human  sacrifices.  Nothing  but  a clear  command  from 
God  could  have  suggested  such  a service.  “A  craving 
to  please,  or  propitiate,  or  communicate  with  the  powers 
above”  by  surrendering  “an  object  near  and  dear”  to  one, 
which  canon  Stanley  erroneously  says  is  the  “source 
of  all  sacrifice,"  and  to  which  he  attributes  Abraham’s 
conduct  in  the  present  case  ( History  of  the  Jewish 
Church,  i,  17),  could  never  have  led  to  such  an  act.  The 
idea  is  wholly  improbable  and  irrational.  Kurtz  main- 
tains that  the  basis  for  this  trial  of  Abraham  was  laid  in 
the  state  of  mind  produced  in  him  by  beholding  the 
Canaanitish  human  sacrifices  around  him.  His  words 
are:  “These  Canaanitish  sacrifices  of  children,  and  the 
readiness  with  which  the  heathen  around  him  offered 
them,  must  have  excited  in  Abraham  a contest  of 
thoughts  ....  and  induced  him  to  examine  himself 


whether  he  also  were  capable  of  sufficient  renunciation 
and  self-denial  to  do,  if  his  God  demanded  it,  what  the 
heathen  around  him  were  doing.  But  if  this  question 
was  raised  in  the  heart  of  Abraham , it  must  also  have 
been  brought  to  a definite  settlement  through  some,  outward 
fact.  Such  was  the  basis  for  the  demand  of  God  so  far 
as  Abraham  was  concerned,  and  such  the  educational 
motive  for  his  trial.  The  obedience  of  Abraham’s  faith 
must,  in  energy  and  entireness,  not  lag  behind  that 
which  the  religion  of  nature  demanded  and  obtained 
from  its  professors.  Abraham  must  be  ready  to  do  for 
his  God  what  the  nations  around  him  were  capable  of 
doing  for  their  false  gods.  In  every  respect  Abraham, 
as  the  hero  of  faith,  is  to  out-distance  all  others  in  self- 
denial”  (Hist,  of  the  0.  Coven,  i,  269).  Objectively,  the 
transaction  was  intended  to  recognise  the  element  of 
truth  in  human  sacrifices,  while  condemning  the  sacri- 
fices themselves  (p.  269,  270).  See  Sacuikice. 

4.  Isaac  passed  his  early  days  under  the ‘eye  of  his 
father,  engaged  in  the  care  of  flocks  and  herds  up  and 
down  the  plains  of  Canaan.  At  length  his  father  wish- 
ed to  see  him  married.  Abraham  therefore  gave  a com- 
mission to  his  oldest  and  most  trustworthy  servant  to 
the  effect  that,  in  order  to  prevent  Isaac  from  taking  a 
wife  from  among  the  daughters  of  the  Canaanites,  he 
should  proceed  into  Mesopotamia,  and,  under  the  divine 
direction,  choose  a partner  among  his  own  relatives  for 
his  beloved  son.  Kebekah,  in  consequence,  becomes 
Isaac’s  wife,  when  he  was  forty  years  of  age  (Gen. 
xxiv).  B.C.  2023.  In  connection  with  this  marriage 
an  event  is  recorded  which  displays  the  peculiar  char- 
acter of  Isaac,  while  it  is  in  keeping  with  the  general 
tenor  of  the  sacred  record  regarding  him.  Probably  in 
expectation  of  the  early  return  of  his  father’s  messenger, 
and  somewhat  solicitous  as  to  the  result  of  the  embassy, 
he  went  out  to  meditate  in  the  field  at  the  eventide. 
While  there  engaged  in  tranquil  thought,  he  chanced 
to  raise  his  eyes,  when  lo ! he  beheld  the  retinue  near  at 
hand,  and  soon  conducted  his  bride  into  his  mother’s 
tent.  In  unison  with  all  this  is  the  simple  declaration 
of  the  history,  that  Isaac  “ loved  her."  Isaac  was  evi- 
dently a man  of  kind  and  gentle  disposition,  of  a calm 
and  reflective  turn  of  mind,  simple  in  his  habits,  having 
few  wants,  good  rather  than  great,  fitted  to  receive  im- 
pressions and  follow  a guide,  not  to  originate  important 
influences,  or  perform  deeds  of  renown.  If  his  charac- 
ter did  not  take  a bent  from  the  events  connected  with 
bis  father’s  readiness  to  offer  him  on  Mount  Moriah, 
certainly  its  passiveness  is  in  entire  agreement  with  the 
whole  tenor  of  his  conduct,  as  set  forth  in  that  narra- 
tive. (See  Kitto’s  Daily  Bible  Illust.  ad  loc.) 

Isaac  having,  in  conjunction  with  his  half-brother 
Ishmael,  buried  Abraham  his  father,  “in  a good  old  age, 
in  the  cave  of  Machpclali,"  took  up  a somewhat  perma- 
nent residence  “by  the  well  Lahai-roi,”  where,  being 
blessed  of  God,  he  lived  in  prosperity  and  at  ease  (Gen. 
xxv,  7-11).  B.G.  1988.  One  source  of  regret,  however, 
he  deeply  felt.  Rebekali  was  barren.  In  time,  however, 
two  sons,  Jacob  and  Esau,  were  granted  to  his  prayers 
(Gen.  xxv,  21-26).  B.C.  2003.  As  the  boys  grew,  Isaac 
gave  a preference  to  Esau,  who  seems  to  have  possessed 
those  robust  qualities  of  character  in  which  his  father 
was  defective,  and  therefore  gratified  him  by  such  dain- 
ties as  the  pursuits  of  the  chase  enabled  the  youth  to 
offer;  while  Jacob,  “a  plain  man,  dwelling  in  tents,”  was 
an  object  of  special  regard  to  Kebekah — a division  of 
feeling  and  a kind  of  partiality  which  became  the  source 
I of  much  domestic  unhappiness,  as  well  as  of  jealousy 
and  hatred  between  the  two  sons  (Gen,  xxv,  27,  28). 
See  Esau. 

5.  The  life  of  Isaac,  moveover,  was  not  passed  wholly 
without  trials  coming  in  from  without.  A famine  com- 
pels him  to  seek  food  in  some  foreign  land  (Gen.  xxvi, 
1 sq.).  B.C.  cir.  1985.  At  the  occurrence  of  this  fam- 
ine Isaac  was  expressly  admonished  by  God  not  to  go 
down  into  Egypt,  but  to  abide  within  the  boundaries  of 
the  Promised  Land ; and  occasion  was  taken  to  renew 


ISAAC 


668 


ISAAC 


the  promise  to  him  and  his  seed,  and  to  confirm  in  liis 
behalf  the  oath  which  had  been  made  to  his  father. 
The  Lord  pledged  his  word  to  be  with  him  and  to  bless 
him  in  the  land— which  he  certainly  did,  though  Isaac 
did  not  feel  so  secure  of  the  promised  guardianship  and 
support  as  to  be  able  to  avoid  falling  into  the  snare 
which  had  also  caught  his  father  Abraham.  When  so- 
journing in  the  neighborhood  of  Gerar,  during  the  prev- 
alence of  the  famine,  and  no  doubt  observing  the  wick- 
edness of  the  place,  he  had  the  weakness  to  call  Rebekah 
his  sister,  in  fear  that  the  people  might  kill  him  on 
her  account,  if  they  knew  her  to  be  his  wife.  It  does 
not  appear  that  any  violence  was  offered  to  Rebekah ; i 
and  the  Philistine  king,  on  discovering,  as  he  did,  from 
the  familiar  bearing  of  Isaac  towards  Rebekah,  that  she 
must  be  his  wife,  simply  rebuked  him  for  having,  by 
his  prevarication,  given  occasion  to  a misapprehension 
which  might  have  led  to  serious  consequences  (Gen. 
xxvi,  10). 

No  passage  of  his  life  has  produced  more  reproach  to 
Isaac’s  character  than  this.  Abraham’s  conduct  while  j 
in  Egypt  (eh.  xii)  and  in  Gerar  (ch.  xx),  where  he  con- 
cealed the  closer  connection  between  himself  and  his 
wife,  was  imitated  by  Isaac  in  Gerar.  On  the  one  hand, 
this  has  been  regarded  by  avowed  adversaries  of  Chris- 
tianity as  involving  the  guilt  of ‘-lying  and  endeavor- 
ing to  betray  the  wife’s  chastity,”  and  even  by  Chris- 
tians, undoubtedly  zealous  for  truth  and  right,  as  the 
conduct  of  “ a very  poor,  paltry  earthworm,  displaying 
cowardice,  selfishness,  readiness  to  put  his  wife  in  a ter- 
rible hazard  for  his  own  sake.”  But,  on  the  other  hand, 
with  more  reverence,  more  kindness,  awl  quite  as  much 
probability,  Waterland,  who  is  no  indiscriminate  apolo- 
gist for  the  errors  of  good  men,  after  a minute  examina- 
tion of  the  circumstances,  concludes  that  the  patriarch 
did  “right  to  evade  the  difficulty  so  long  as  it  could 
lawfully  be  evaded,  and  to  await  and  see  whether  di- 
vine Providence  might  not,  some  way  or  other,  inter- 
pose before  the  la-t  extremity.  The  event  answered. 
God  did  interpose”  ( Scripture  Vindicated , in  Works,  iv, 
18<S.  1901. 

There  is  no  improbability,  as  has  been  asserted,  that 
the  same  sort  of  event  should  happen  in  rude  times  at 
different  intervals,  and,  therefore,  no  reason  for  main- 
taining that  these  events  have  the  same  historical  basis, 
and  are,  in  fact,  the  same  event  differently  represented. 
Neither  is  it  an  unfair  assumption  that  Abimelech  was 
the  common  title  of  the  kings  of  Gerar,  as  Pharaoh  was 
of  the  kings  of  Egypt,  or  that  it  may  have  been  the 
proper  name  of  several  kings  in  succession,  as  George 
has  been  of  several  English  kings. 

In  all  respects  except  this  incident,  Isaac’s  connection 
with  the  Philistine  territory  was  every  way  creditable 
to  himself,  and  marked  with  tokens  of  the  divine  favor, 
lie  cultivated  a portion  of  ground,  and  in  the  same  year 
reaped  a hundred  fold  — a remarkable  increase,  to  en- 
courage him  to  abide  under  God’s  protection  in  Canaan, 
llis  flocks  and  herds  multiplied  exceedingly,  so  that  he 
rose  to  the  possession  of  very  great  wealth ; he  even  be- 
came, on  account  of  it,  an  object  of  envy  to  the  Philis- 
tines, who  could  not  rest  till  they  drove  him  from  their 
territory.  lie  reopened  the  wells  which  his  father  had 
digged,  and  which  the  Philistines  had  meanwhile  filled 
up,  and  himself  dug  several  new  ones,  but  they  disputed 
with  him  the  right  of  possession,  and  obliged  him  to 
withdraw  from  them  one  after  another.  Finally,  at  a 
greater  distance,  he  dug  a well,  which  he  was  allowed 
to  keep  unmolested;  and  in  token  of  his  satisfaction  at 
the  peace  he  enjoyed,  he  called  it  Rehoboth  ( room ) 
(Gen.  xxv,  22).  Thence  he  returned  to  Ueersheba, 
where  the  Lord  again  appeared  to  him,  and  gave  him  a 
fresh  assurance  of  the  covenant -blessing;  and  Abime- 
lech, partly  ashamed  of  the  unkind  treatment  Isaac  had 
received,  and  partly  desirous  of  standing  well  with  one 
who  was  so  evidently  prospering  in  his  course,  sent 
some  of  his  leading  men  to  enter  formally  into  a cove- 
nant of  peace  with  him,  Isaac  showed  his  meek  and 


kindly  disposition  in  giving  courteous  entertainment  to 
the  messengers,  and  cordially  agreed  to  their  proposal. 

It  was  probably  a period  considerably  later  still  than 
even  the  latest  of  these  transactions  to  which  the  next 
notice  in  the  life  of  Isaac  must  be  referred.  This  is  the 
marriage  of  Esau  to  two  of  the  daughters  of  Canaan 
(Judith  and  Bashemath),  which  is  assigned  to  the  for- 
tieth year  of  Esau's  life,  coeval  with  Isaac’s  hundredth. 
These  alliances  were  far  from  giving  satisfaction  to  the 
aged  patriarch;  on  the  contrary,  they  were  a gritf  of 
mind  to  him  and  his  wife  Rebekah  (Gen.  xxvi,  36). 

6.  The  last  prominent  event  in  the  life  of  Isaac  is  the 
blessing  of  his  sons  (Gen.  xxvii,  1 sq.).  B.C.  1927.  It 
has  been  plausibly  suggested  (Browne,  Ordo  Saeelo- 
rum,  p.  310)  that  the  forebodings  of  a speedy  demise 
(ver.  2)  on  the  part  of  Isaac,  whose  health  always  ap- 
pears to  have  been  delicate  (Kitto’s  Daily  Bible  Jllnst. 
ad  loc.),  may  have  arisen  from  the  fact  that  his  brother 
Ishmael  died  at  the  age  he  had  just  now  reached  (Gen. 
xxv,  17),  although  he  himself  survived  this  point  for 
many  years  (Gen.  xxxv,  28).  When  old  and  dim  of 
sight  (which  fails  much  sooner  in  Eastern  countries 
than  with  us),  supposing  that  the  time  of  his  depar- 
ture was  at  hand,  he  called  for  his  beloved  son  Esau, 
and  sent  him  to  “ take  some  venison”  for  him,  and  to 
make  his  favorite  “savory  meat,”  that  he  might  eat 
and  “bless”  him  before  his  death.  Esau  prepared  to 
obey  his  father's  will,  and  set  forth  to  the  field;  but 
through  the  deceptions  stratagem  of  Rebekah  the  “sa- 
vory meat”  was  provided  before  Esau’s  return  ; and  Ja- 
cob, disguised  so  as  to  resemble  his  hairy  brother,  im- 
posed on  his  father,  and  obtained  the  blessing,  l et,  on 
the  discovery  of  the  cheat,  when  Esau  brought  in  to  his 
father  the  dish  he  had  prepared,  Isaac,  remembering  no 
doubt  the  prediction  that  “the  elder  should  serve  the 
ycunger,”  and  convinced  that  God  intended  the  blessing 
for  Jacob,  would  not,  perhaps  rather  could  not,  reverse 
the  solemn  words  he  had  uttered,  but  bestowed  an  infe- 
rior blessing  on  Esau  (comp.  Ileb.  xii,  17).  See  Ei>om, 
This  paternal  blessing,  if  full,  conveyed,  as  was  usual,  the 
right  of  headship  in  the  family,  together  with  the  chief 
possessions.  In  the  blessing  which  the  aged  patriarch 
pronounced  on  Jacob,  it  deserves  notice  how  entirely 
the  wislied-for  good  is  of  an  earthly  and  temporal  na- 
ture, while  the  imagery  which  is  employed  serves  to 
show  the  extent  to  which  the  poetical  element  prevail- 
ed as  a constituent  part  of  the  Hebrew  character  (Gen. 
xxvii,  27  sq.).  Most  natural,  too,  is  the  extreme  agi- 
tation of  the  poor  blind  old  man  on  discovering  the 
cheat  which  had  been  put  upon  him.  All  the  parties 
to  this  nefarious  transaction  were  signally  punished  by 
divine  Providence  (comp.  Jarvis,  Church  of  the  Redeem- 
ed, p.  47).  The  entire  passage  is  of  itself  enough  to 
vindicate  the  historical  character  and  entire  credibility 
of  those  sketches  of  the  lives  of  the  patriarchs  which 
Genesis  presents. 

Yet  Isaac’s  tacit  acquiescence  in  the  conduct  of  his 
sons  has  been  brought  into  discussion.  Fairbairn  ( Ty- 
pology, i,  334)  seems  scarcely  justified  by  facts  in  his 
conclusion  that  the  later  days  of  Isaac  did  not  fulfil  the 
promise  of  his  earlier;  that,  instead  of  reaching  to  high 
attainments  in  faith,  he  fell  into  general  feebleness  and 
decay  moral  and  bodily,  and  made  account  only  of  the 
natural  element  in  judging  of  his  sons.  The  inexact 
translation  (to  modern  ears)  of  prey  taken  in  hunt- 
ing, by  “ venison”  (Gen.  xxv,  28),  may  have  contribu- 
ted to  form,  in  the  minds  of  English  readers,  a low 
opinion  of  Isaac.  Nor  can  that  opinion  be  supported 
by  a reference  to  xxvii,  4;  for  Isaac’s  desire  at  such  a 
time  for  savory  meat  may  have  sprung  cither  from  a 
dangerous  sickness  under  which  he  was  laboring  (Blunt, 
Undesir/wd  Coincidences , pt.  i,  eh.  vi),  or  from  the  same 
kind  of  impulse  preceding  inspiration  as  prompted  Eli- 
sha (2  Kings  iii,  15)  to  demand  the  soothing  influence 
of  music  before  he  spoke  the  word  of  the  Lord.  For 
sadness  and  grief  are  enumerated  in  the  Gemara  among 
the  impediments  to  the  exercise  of  the  gift  of  prophecy 


ISAAC 


G69 


ISAAC 


(Smith’s  Select  Discourses , vi,  245).  The  reader  who 
bears  in  mind  the  peculiarities  of  Isaac’s  character  will 
scarcely  infer  from  those  passages  any  fresh  accession 
of  mental  or  moral  feebleness.  Such  a longing  in  an 
old  man  was  innocent  enough,  and  indicated  nothing  of 
a spirit  of  self-indulgence.  It  was  an  extraordinary  ease, 
too,  and  Kalisch  sets  it  in  its  true  light:  “The  venison 
is  evidently  like  a sacrifice  offered  by  the  recipient  of 
the  blessing,  and  ratifying  the  proceedings;  and  hence 
Jacob  killed  and  prepared  two  kids  of  the  goats  (verse 
9),  whereas,  for  an  ordinary  meal,  one  would  have  been 
more  than  sufficient;  it  imparted  to  the  ceremony,  in 
certain  respects,  the  character  of  a covenant  (comp.xxi, 
27-30;  xxvi,  30;  Exod.  xii,  2;  xxiv,  5-11,  etc.);  the 
one  party  showed  ready  obedience  and  sincere  affection, 
while  the  other  accepted  the  gift,  and  granted  in  return 
the  whole  store  of  happiness  he  was  able  to  bequeath. 
Thus  the  meal  which  Isaac  required  has  a double  mean- 
ing, both  connected  with  the  internal  organism  of  the 
book”  {Comm,  on  Gen.  xxvii,  1-4). 

7.  The  stealing,  on  the  part  of  Jacob,  of  his  father’s 
blessing  having  angered  Esau,  who  seems  to  have  look- 
ed forward  to  Isaac’s  death  as  affording  an  opportunity 
for  taking  vengeance  on  liis  unjust  brother,  the  aged 
patriarch  is  induced,  at  his  wife’s  entreaty,  to  send  Ja- 
cob into  Mesopotamia,  that,  after  his  own  example,  his 
son  might  take  a wife  from  among  his  kindred  and  peo- 
ple, “ of  the  daughters  of  Laban,  thy  mother’s  brother” 
(Gen.  xxvii,  41-4(5).  B.C.  1927.  See  Jacob. 

This  is  the  last  important  act  recorded  of  Isaac.  Ja- 
cob having,  agreeably  to  his  father's  command,  married 
into  Laban’s  family,  returned  after  some  time,  and  found 
the  old  man  at  Mam  re,  in  the  city  of  Arbah,  which  is 
Hebron,  where  Abraham  and  Isaac  sojourned  (Gen. 
xxxv,  27).  B.C.  cir.  1898.  Here,  “ being  old  and  full  of 
days”  (180),  Isaac  gave  up  the  ghost,  and  died,  ami  was 
gathered  unto  his  people,  and  his  sons  Esau  and  Jacob 
buried  him”  (Gen.  xxxv,  28).  B.C.  1883. 

In  the  N.  T.  reference  is  made  to  the  offering  of  Isaac 
(Heb.  xi,  17,  and  James  ii,  21)  and  to  his  blessing  his  sons 
(Heb.  xi,  20).  As  the  child  of  the  promise,  and  as  the 
progenitor  of  the  children  of  the  promise,  he  is  contrast- 
ed with  Ishmael  (Korn,  ix,  7,  10;  Gal.  iv,  28;  Heb.  xi, 
18).  In  our  Lord's  remarkable  argument  with  the  Sad- 
ducees,  his  history  is  carried  beyond  the  point  at  which 
it  is  left  in  the  O.  T.,  into  and  beyond  the  grave.  Isaac, 
of  whom  it  was  said  (Gen.  xxxv,  29)  that  he  was  gath- 
ered to  bis  people,  is  represented  as  still  living  to  God 
(Luke  xx,  38,  etc.);  and  by  the  same  divine  authority 
he  is  proclaimed  as  an  acknowledged  heir  of  future  glory 
(Matt,  viii,  11,  etc.). 

1 1.  His  Character. — Isaac,  the  gentle  and  dutiful  son, 
the  faithful  and  constant  husband  (see  Becker,  De  Isa- 
aco , etc.,  Grcifsw.  1750),  became  the  father  of  a house 
in  which  order  did  not  reign.  If  there  were  any  very 
prominent  points  in  his  character,  they  were  not  brought 
out  by  the  circumstances  in  which  he  was  placed.  He 
appears  less  as  a man  of  action  than  as  a man  of  suffer- 
ing, from  which  he  is  generally  delivered  without  any 
direet  effort  of  his  own.  Thus  he  suffers  as  the  object 
of  Ishmael’s  mocking,  of  the  intended  sacrifice  on  Mo- 
riah, of  the  rapacity  of  the  Philistines,  and  of  Jacob’s 
stratagem.  But  the  thought  of  his  sufferings  is  effaced 
by  the  ever-present  tokens  of  God’s  favor;  and  he  suf- 
fers with  the  calmness  and  dignity  of  a conscious  heir 
of  heavenly  promises,  without  uttering  any  complaint, 
and  generally  without  committing  any  action  by  which 
he  would  forfeit  respect.  Free  from  violent  passions,  he 
was  a man  of  constant,  deep,  and  tender  affections. 
Thus  he  mourned  for  his  mother  till  her  place  was  filled 
by  his  wife.  His  sons  were  nurtured  at  home  till  a late 
period  of  their  lives ; and  neither  his  grief  for  Esau’s 
marriage,  nor  the  anxiety  in  which  he  was  involved  in 
consequence  of  Jacob’s  deceit,  estranged  either  of  them 
from  his  affectionate  care.  II is  life  of  solitary  blame- 
lessness must  have  been  sustained  by  strong  habitual 
piety,  such  as  showed  itself  at  the  time  of  Eebekali’s 


barrenness  (Gen.  xxv,  21),  in  his  special  intercourse 
with  God  at  Gerar  and  Beersheba  (xxvi,  2,  23),  in  the 
solemnity  with  which  be  bestows  his  blessing  and  re- 
fuses to  change  it.  His  life,  judged  by  a worldly  stand- 
ard, might  seem  inactive,  ignoble,  and  unfruitful;  but 
the  “guileless  years,  prayers,  gracious  acts,  and  daily 
thank-offerings  of  pastoral  life”  are  not  to  be  so  esteem- 
ed, although  they  make  no  show  in  history.  Isaac’s 
character  may  not  have  exercised  any  commanding  in- 
fluence upon  either  his  own  or  succeeding  generations, 
but  it  was  sufficiently  marked  and  consistent  to  win  re- 
spect and  envy  from  his  contemporaries.  By  his  pos- 
terity his  name  is  always  joined  in  equal  honor  with 
those  of  Abraham  and  Jacob,  and  so  it  was  even  used 
as  part  of  the  formula  which  Egyptian  magicians  in  the 
time  of  Origen  {Contra  Celsum,  i,  22)  employed  as  effi- 
cacious to  bind  the  daemons  whom  they  adjured  (comp. 
Gen.  xxxi,  42,  53). 

If  Abraham’s  enterprising,  unsettled  life  foreshadow- 
ed the  early  history  of  his  descendants;  if  Jacob  was  a 
type  of  the  careful,  commercial,  unwarlike  character  of 
their  later  days,  Isaac  may  represent  the  middle  period, 
in  which  they  lived  apart  from  nations,  and  enjoyed 
possession  of  the  fertile  land  of  promise.  (See  Kalisch, 
Gen.  ad  loc.) 

III.  The  typical  view  of  Isaac  is  barely  referred  to  in 
the  N.  T.,  but  it  is  drawn  out  with  minute  particularity 
by  Philo  and  those  interpreters  of  Scripture  who  were 
influenced  by  Alexandrian  philosophy.  Thus  in  Philo, 
Isaac  (laughter  — the  most  exquisite  enjoyment  — the 
soother  and  clieerer  of  peace-loving  souls)  is  foreshad- 
owed in  the  facts  that  bis  father  had  attained  100  years 
(the  perfect  number)  when  he  was  born,  and  that  he  is 
specially  designated  as  given  to  his  parents  by  God. 
His  birth  from  the  mistress  of  Abraham’s  household 
symbolizes  happiness  proceeding  from  predominant  wis- 
dom. His  attachment  to  one  wife  (Kebckah  = perse- 
verance) is  contrasted  with  Abraham’s  multiplied  con- 
nections, and  with  Jacob’s  toil-won  wives,  as  showing  the 
superiority  of  Isaac’s  heaven-born,  self-sufficing  wisdom 
to  the  accumulated  knowledge  of  Abraham  and  the 
painful  experience  of  Jacob.  In  the  intended  sacrifice 
of  Isaac,  Philo  sees  only  a sign  (laughter  = rejoicing  is 
the  prerogative  of  God,  and  is  a fit  offering  to  him)  that 
God  gives  back  to  obedient  man  as  much  happiness  as 
is  good  for  him.  Clement  of  Pome  (ch.  xxxi),  with 
characteristic  soberness,  merely  refers  to  Isaac  as  an  ex- 
ample of  faith  in  God.  In  Tertullian  he  is  a pattern  of 
monogamy,  and  a type  of  Christ  bearing  the  cross.  But 
Clement  of  Alexandria  finds  an  allegorical  meaning  in 
the  incidents  which  connect  Abimelech  with  Isaac  and 
Iiebekah  (Gen.  xxvi,  8),  as  well  as  in  the  offering  of 
Isaac.  In  this  latter  view  he  is  followed  by  Origen,  and 
by  Augustine,  and  bv  Christian  expositors  generally. 
The  most  minute  particulars  of  that  transaction  are  in- 
vested with  a spiritual  meaning  by  such  writers  as  Ra- 
banus  Maurus,  in  Gen.  § iii.  Abraham  is  made  a type 
of  the  first  person  in  the  blessed  Trinity,  Isaac  of  the 
second;  the  two  servants  dismissed  are  the  Jewish  sects 
who  did  not  attain  to  a perception  of  Christ  in  his  hu- 
miliation; the  ass  bearing  the  wood  is  the  Jewish  na- 
tion, to  whom  were  committed  the  oracles  of  God  which 
they  failed  to  understand ; the  three  days  are  the  Patri- 
archal, Mosaic,  and  Christian  dispensations;  the  ram  is 
Christ  on  the  cross;  the  thicket  they  who  placed  him 
there.  Modern  English  writers  hold  firmly  the  typical 
significance  of  the  transaction,  without  extending  it  into 
such  detail  (see  Pearson,  On  the  Creed , i,  243,  251,  edit. 
1843 ; Fairbairn’s  Typology,  i,  332).  A recent  writer  (A. 
Jukes,  Types  of  Genesis),  who  has  shown  much  ingenu- 
ity in  attaching  a spiritual  meaning  to  the  characters 
and  incidents  in  the  book  of  Genesis,  regards  Isaac  as 
representing  the  spirit  of  sonship,  in  a series  in  which 
Adam  represents  human  nature,  Cain  the  carnal  mind, 
Abel  the  spiritual,  Noah  regeneration,  Abraham  the 
spirit  of  faith,  Jacob  the  spirit  of  service,  Joseph  suffer- 
ing or  glory.  With  this  series  may  be  compared  the 


ISAAC 


670 


ISAAC  ARGYRUS 


view  of  Ewald  (Gesch.  i,  387-400),  in  which  the  whole 
patriarchal  family  is  a pretigurative  group,  comprising 
twelve  members  with  seven  distinct  inodes  of  relation  : 
1.  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob  are  three  fathers,  respect- 
ively personifying  active  power,  quiet  enjoyment,  suc- 
cess after  struggles,  distinguished  from  the  rest  as  Aga- 
memnon, Achilles,  and  Ulysses  among  the  heroes  of  the 
Iliad,  or  as  the  Trojan  Ancliises,  .Eneas,  and  Ascanius, 
and  mutually  related  as  Romulus,  Remus,  and  Numa ; 2. 
Sarah,  with  ilagar,  as  mother  and  mistress  of  the  house- 
hold, 3.  Isaac  as  child;  4.  Isaac  with  Rebekah  as  the 
type  of  wedlock  (comp,  his  A It  erth  timer,  p.  233) ; 5.  Leah 
and  Rachel  the  plurality  of  coequal  wives;  6.  Deborah 
as  nurse  (compare  Anna  and  Caieta,  sh'n.  iv,  054,  and 
vii,  1):  7.  Eliezer  as  steward,  whose  office  is  compared 
to  that  of  the  messenger  of  the  Olympic  deities. 

IV.  Traditions. — Jewish  legends  represent  Isaac  as  an 
angel  made  before  the  world,  and  descending  to  earth 
iu  human  form  (Origen,  in  Johann,  ii,  § 25) ; as  one  of 
the  three  men  in  whom  human  sinfulness  has  no  place, 
as  one  of  the  six  over  whom  the  angel  of  death  has  no 
power  (Eisenmenger,  Entd.Jud.  i,  343,  864).  He  is  said 
to  have  been  instructed  in  divine  knowledge  by  Shem 
(Jarehi,  on  Gen.  xxv).  The  ordinance  of  evening  pray- 
er is  ascribed  to  him  (Gen.  xxiv,  03),  as  that  of  morning 
prayer  to  Abraham  (xix,  27),  and  night  prayer  to  Ja- 
cob (xxviii,  11)  (Eisenmenger,  Knt.  Jud.  i,  483). 

The  Arabian  traditions  included  in  the  Koran  repre- 
sent Isaac  as  a model  of  religion,  a righteous  person  in- 
spired with  grace  to  do  good  works,  observe  prayer,  and 
give  alms  (ch.  xxi),  endowed  with  the  divine  gifts  of 
prophecy,  children,  and  wealth  (ch.  xix).  The  prom- 
ise of  Isaac  and  the  offering  of  Isaac  are  also  mentioned 
(ch.  xi,  38).  Faith  in  a future  resurrection  is  ascribed 
to  Abraham;  hut  it  is  connected,  not,  as  in  Heb.  xi,  19, 
with  the  offering  of  Isaac,  but  with  a fictitious  miracle 
(chap.  ii).  Stanley  mentions  a curious  tradition  of  the 
reputed  jealousy  oflsaac’s  character  that  prevails  among 
the  inhabitants  of  Hebron  respecting  the  grave  of  Re- 
bekah ( Jewish  Church,  i,  490  sq.).  (On  the  notices  of 
Isaac  in  the  Talmud,  sec  Otlio’s  Lex.  Talm.  p.  133 ; Ham- 
burger, Real- Kncyklop.  f Bibel  it.  Talmud,  p.  612  sq.;  for 
the  notices  in  the  Koran,  see  Hottinger’s  Mist.  Orient. 
p.  25,  52). — Kitto;  Smith;  Fairbairn.  See  Bouchier, 
History  of  Isaac  (Lond.  1804).  For  older  treatises,  see 
Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliogruph.  col.  190. 

Isaac,  bishop  of  Langres,  France,  is  supposed  to 
have  been  present  at  the  Council  of  Kiersy  in  840,  as 
deacon  of  Laon.  After  the  death  of  Theutbaldo,  AYulf- 
ade  seized  the  bishopric  of  Langres  in  spite  of  all  oppos- 
ing canons;  but  Ilincmar,  archbishop  of  Rheims,  de- 
clared against  him,  and  Charles  the  Bald  compelled 
him  to  flee.  Hilduin,  lay  abbot  of  St.  Denis,  then  pro- 
posed Isaac  as  bishop,  and  by  his  influence  caused  him 
to  be  appointed.  Isaac  was  ordained  bishop  of  Langres 
about  850.  We  afterwards  find  his  name  in  the  coun- 
cils of  Toni  and  Langres  (859),  of  Tonsv  (800),  of  Pistes 
(802),  of  Verberic,  and  of  Soissons  (806) — an  evidence 
that  he  bad  gained  great  consideration  and  influence. 
His  mildness  caused  him  to  be  surnamed  bonus,  and  the 
martyrology  of  the  Church  of  Dijon  praises  him  highly. 
A lasting  monument  of  his  efforts  to  effect  a reform 
among  the  monastic  orders  is  his  work  on  Canons,  pub- 
lished by  Sirmoud,  Conci/es,  veil,  iii ; Labbe,  Concil.  etc.; 
Baluze,  Capitulaires,  vol.  ii.  See  Gallia.  Christ,  vol.  v, 
col.  533;  Hist.  IAtt.  de  la  France,  v,  528;  Iloefcr,  Nouv. 
I Hoy.  General >,  xxvi,  4.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Isaac  Tim  Syrian  (a),  with  the  surname  of  Doc- 
tor or  Magnus , because  of  his  ability  as  an  ecclesias- 
tical writer,  who  flourished  in  the  first  half  of  the  5th 
century,  was,  iu  all  probability,  a native  of  Syria,  lie 
was  at  first  a monk  in  a convent  not  far  from  Gabala,  in 
Phoenicia,  and  afterwards  became  a priest  at  Antioch. 
He  died  about  456.  He  wrote  several  theological  pam- 
phlets in  Syriac  (and  perhaps  also  in  Greek),  directed 
chiefly  against  the  Nestorians  and  Eutychians.  A work 


on  the  Contempt  of  the  World  would  be  considered  as 
his  chief  claim  to  reputation,  but  the  authorship  of  this 
book  is  not  at  all  well  established.  It  is  by  some  sup- 
posed to  have  been  written  by  the  other  Isaac  the  Syr- 
ian (see  next  art.).  There  seem  to  be  better  grounds 
for  considering  him  as  the  author  of  the  treatise  De 
Cogitationibus,  the  Greek  text  of  which,  together  with 
a Latin  translation,  can  be  found  in  the  Ascetica  of  Pe- 
trus Possinus.  The  library  of  the  Vatican  contains 
some  other  MS.  works  of  Isaac.  He  is  honored  as  a 
saint  both  by  the  Maronites  and  Jacobites  of  Syria. 
Sec  Gennadi  us,  I)e  Script.  Eccles.;  Cave,  Hist.  IAttera- 
ria  ; Fabricius,  Bibliotli.  Grceca , xi,  214;  Hoefer,  Nouv. 
Biog.  Generale , xxvi,  3 ; Joeher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1991. 

Isaac  the  Syrian  ( b ),  generally  with  the  surname 
of  Ninivitu,  an  ecclesiastical  writer  of  the  6th  century, 
became  bishop  of  Nineveh,  but  afterwards  resigned  his 
office  to  enter  a convent,  of  which  he  was  subsequently 
chosen  abbot.  He  died  towards  the  close  of  the  0th 
century.  He  is  generally,  and,  as  it  seems,  justly  con- 
sidered as  the  author  of  the  treatise  De  Contemptu  Mnn- 
di,  de  Operatione  corporali  et  sui  A bjectione  Liber , which 
may  be  found  in  the  O/ihodoxographi  (second  edition, 
Basle,  1569),  Bibliotheca  Patrum  (of  Cologne,  vol.  vi), 
Bibliotheca  Patrum  (of  Paris,  vol.  v),  Bibliotheca  novis- 
sima  (of  Lyons,  vol.  xi),  and  in  Galland,  Bibliotheca  Pa- 
trum (vol.  xii).  All  these  collections  contain  a Greek 
text  with  a Latin  translation,  yet  the  former  appears 
itself  to  be  a translation  from  the  Syriac.  There  are 
twenty-seven  ascetic  sermons  of  his  in  Greek  (MSS.  in 
the  Vienna  Library)  and  some  homilies  (MSS.  in  the 
Bodleian  Library).  See  Cave,  I list.  Liter. ; Fabricius, 
Bibl.  Grceca,  xi,  215;  Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxvi,  4; 
Joeher,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  ii,  1991. 

Isaac  Aboab,  a Spanish  Jew  of  some  distinction 
as  a commentator  and  preacher,  was  born,  according  to 
Griitz  (Gesch.  d.  Juden,\ iii,  225),  in  1433,  and  succeeded 
the  celebrated  Isaac  of  Campanton  as  gaon  of  Castile. 
He  died  in  1493.  Aboab  wrote,  besides  super  commen- 
taries to  the  commentaries  of  Rashi  and  Naehmani, 
PlIVl3,  or  Dissertations  on  a Part,  of  the 
Talmudic  Tract  Jam-Tob  (Beza),  edited  by  Jedidja  Ga- 
laute  (Venice,  1608  ; Wilmcrsdorf,  1716) : — ““PI3, 
or  Homilies , with  free  Use  of  the  Hagadah , edited  by 
Gershom  Soncini  (Constantinople,  1538,  4to ; Zolkicw, 
1806,  4to).  There  are  a number  of  other  works  that 
have  frequently  been  attributed  to  the  pen  of  this 
Isaac,  which  Dr.  Zuuz  assigns,  as  Griitz  believes  very 
properly,  to  another  Isaac  Aboab,  who  flourished  about 
1300-1320.  Among  these,  the  most  important,  which 
Fiirst  (Bibliotheca  Judaica,  i,  4 sq.)  assigns  to  the  pres- 
ent Isaac,  is  ‘*i‘lN53!n  a hagadie  or  ethical  trea- 

tise on  the  Talmud  and  Midrashim,  in  seven  sections 
(published  at  Venice,  1544,  fob,  and  several  times  later; 
also  with  a lleb.  commentary  bv  Frankfurter,  Amsterd. 
1701, 8vo;  and  by  others  with  Spanish,  lit  brew,  German, 
and  Iligh-German  translations  at  different  times  and 
places).  (J.  II. TV.) 

Isaac  Albalag,  a Jewish  philosopher  of  some 
note,  flourished  in  Spain  during  the  latter  half  of  the 
13th  century.  He  was  a contemporary  of  the  celebra- 
ted Falaqucra,  and,  like  him,  well  versed  in  Arabian 
philosophy.  Alhalag  possessed  greater  natural  endow- 
ments than  Falaqucra,  but,  wanting  that  independence 
of  mind  which  made  the  latter  so  justly  celebrated,  he 
failed  to  take  as  prominent  a position.  ' He  died  about 
1294.  About  1292  he  edited  and  improved  Alghazali’s 
Makasul  A Iphilsapha,  under  the  title  of  n'r““  “Jr  pi. 
A part  of  it  has  been  published  by  Schorr  in  Chaluz,  iv 
(1859)  and  vi  (1861).  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  vii, 
252  sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Isaac  Argyrus,  a Greek  monk  who  flourished  in 
the  latter  half  of  the  14th  century  at  vEneus,  in  Thracia, 
w rote  about  1373,  when  he  is  said  to  have  been  at  the 
age  of  sixty,  Computus  Grcecorum  de  solemnitate pascha- 


ISAAC  BEN-ABBA-MAKE 


671  ISAAC  BEX-JACOB  ALFASI 


tis  celebrandi , published  in  Greek  and  Latin  by  J.  Christ- 
mami  (Heidelberg,  1611,  4to),  and  inserted  by  Diony- 
sius Petavius  in  his  l)e  Doctrina  temporum  (iii,  359). 
He  is  also  supposed  to  be  the  author  of  a work  still  in 
MS.  form  on  astronomy.  Of  Isaac’s  personal  history  but 
little  is  clearly  known. — Jocher,  Gelelirt.  Lex.  ii.  1984; 
Mosheim,  Keel.  Hist.  bk.  iii,  cent,  xiv,  pt.  ii,  ell.  ii.  (J. 
H.W.) 

Isaac  ben- Abba-Mare,  a Jewish  exponent  of 
the  Talmud,  was  born  at  Bourg  des  St.  Gilles,  France, 
in  1139.  His  father  was  an  officer  under  the  govern- 
ment of  the  count  of  Toulouse,  and  afforded  Isaac  ev- 
ery opportunitj”  for  distinction,  but  he  early  devoted 
himself  to  the  study  of  the  Talmud  under  the  celebrated 
Rabbi  Tam  of  Rameru.  When  only  seventeen  years 
old  he  prepared  a compendium  of  certain  ritualistic  laws 
of  the  Jews,  in  which  he  evinced  thorough  familiarity 
with  the  Talmud.  He  also  wrote  a commentary  on  one 
of  the  most  difficult  parts  of  the  Talmud,  and  finally 
collected  all  his  investigations  on  the  Jewish  traditions 
under  the  title  of  (probably  in  1179).  It  was 

incompletely  published  by  Josef  ben-Saruk  (Veil.  1608; 
and  since  then,  Warsowa,  1801).  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  d. 
Juden,  vi,  244;  Fttrst,  Biblioth.  Judaica,  ii,  137.  (J.  II. 

W.) 

Isaac  ben -Abraham,  a distinguished  Jewish 
Rabbi  of  the  Karaitic  sect,  was  born  at  Trock,  near  Wil- 
na  (Lithuania)  about  X533.  He  is  especially  celebrated 
as  the  author  of  a work  against  Christianity,  entitled 
p**n,  Chizzuk  Amunah  (munimen  fdei),  written 
in  1593.  It  is  divided  into  two  parts  : the  first,  contain- 
ing fifty  chapters,  consists  of  an  apology  for  Judaism, 
and  a general  attack  on  the  Christian  faith ; the  second 
contains  a critical  examination  of  a hundred  passages 
of  the  N.  T.,  intended  by  the  writer  to  refute  the  proofs 
adduced  by  Christians  from  the  Old  Test.  It  is  consid- 
ered, next  to  the  productions  of  Duran  (q.  v.),  the  ablest 
work  ever  written  by  any  Jew  against  the  Christian  re- 
ligion. It  was  first  published  by  Wagenseil,  with  a Latin 
translation,  in  the  Tela  ignea  S(  dance  (Altdorf,  1682,4to), 
from  a MS.  obtained  from  an  African  Jew,  which,  as 
Griitz  asserts,  was  imperfect.  The  Hebrew  text  was  after- 
wards reprinted  by  the  Jews  (Amsterdam,  1705,  12mo), 
and  by  Gonsset,  with  a Latin  translation  and  a refuta- 
tion (Amst.  1712,  fol.).  Wolf,  in  his  Bibliotheca  llebra- 
ica,  gives  a supplement  and  variation,  said  to  be  derived 
from  a more  perfect  MS.  than  the  one  at  Wagenseil’s 
command.  But  the  best  edition  is  held  to  be  that  of 
Rabbi  Deutscli  (Solirau,  1865).  It  was  also  translated 
into  German  Hebrew  (Amst.  1717,  8vo);  into  German 
by  Gebling,  and  into  Spanish  by  Is.  Athia.  Among  the 
works  written  in  answer  to  it,  which  deserve  especial 
mention,  besides  those  named  above,  are  J.  Muller,  Con- 
futatio  libri  Chizuk  Emuna  (Hamb.  1644, 4to) ; Gebhard, 
Centum  loca  Xori  Testamenti  rindicata  adeersus  Chizuk 
Emuna  (Greifswald,  1699, 4to) ; J.  1*.  Storr,  Erangelisrhe 
Glaitbenslehre  gegen  d.  Werk  Chissuk  Emuna  (Tub.  1703, 
8vo) ; K.  Kidder,  Demonstrat.  of  the  Messiah  (Lond.  1684- 
1700,3  pts.  8vo).  Isaac  ben-Abraham  died  about  1594. 
See  Bossi,  Dizion.  storico  degli  A utori  Ebrei ; Bartolocei, 
Magna  Biblio.  Rabbin.;  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  ix,  490 
sq.;  Iloefer,  A 'ouv.  Bioq.  Gener.  xxvi,  10;  Fiirst, Biblioth. 
Jud.  ii,  139.  (J.H.W.) 

Isaac  ben-Abraham  Akrish,  a Jewish  writer 
of  considerable  note,  was  born  about  1489.  in  Spain;  the 
name  of  the  place  is  not  known  to  us.  He  was  lame  on 
both  feet,  but  this  maimed  condition  by  no  means  pre- 
vented him  from  acquiring  great  learning;  nay,  he 
even  travelled  extensively,  and  enjoyed  the  reputation 
of  a great  scholar.  When  yet  a boy,  the  persecutions 
of  the  Jews  by  the  Spaniards  obliged  him  to  leave  his 
native  land  (1492),  and  he  removed  to  Naples.  But 
also  here  he  and  his  coreligionists  were  sorely  tried  by 
persecution,  and  again  he  fled;  this  time  from  country 
to  country  “whose  languages  he  did  not  understand, 
and  whose  inhabitants  spared  neither  the  aged  nor  the 


young,”  until  he  finalty  found  a home  in  the  house  of  a 
banished  coreligionist  in  far-off  Egypt.  After  a stay  of 
some  ten  years  he  removed  to  Palestine,  and  finally  set- 
tled in  Turkey,  where  he  was  honored  with  the  instruc- 
tion of  one  of  the  princes  of  the  realm.  He  died  after 
1577.  Ilis  works  are  or  on  Jewish  Reign 

during  the  Exile;  containing  (1)  the  correspondence  of 
Chasdai  ben-Isaac  with  Jusuf,  the  king  of  the  Chassars; 
(2)  ‘Tin  irrra,  or  History  of  the  House 

of  David  during  the  reign  of  the  Persians;  also  the  his- 
tory of  Bastanai,  etc.  (Constant.  15  . ,8vo;  Basle,  1589, 
8vo;  and  with  a work  of  Farisaolo,  Offenb.  1720, 12mo). 
See  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  ix,  10  sq.,  420  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Isaac  ben-Calonymos.  See  Natiiax. 

Isaac  ben-Elia  ben-Samuel,  a Jewish  com- 
mentator who  flourished  in  the  beginning  of  the  18tli 
century,  deserves  our  notice  as  the  author  of  (1.)  A Com- 
mentarg  on  the  Psalms,  published  at  Dyrhenfurt,  under 
the  title  of  ■’Blpb  UV  D^nr,  the  Psalms  with 

a valuable  catena  (1728),  consisting  of  excerpts  from  the 
celebrated  expositions  of  Rashi,  D.  Kimchi,  etc.,  giving 
also  an  abridgment  of  Alsheioh's  commentary,  entitled 
r/TCCn,  and  a German  explanation  of  the  difficult 
words.  (2.)  A Commentary  on  Proverbs,  entitled  A' ""2 
3”,  Proverbs  with  a valuable  catena 
(W andsbeck,  1730-31),  composed  of  excerpts  from  the 
expositions  of  Rashi,  1).  Kimchi,  Ibn  Ezra,  Levi  b.-Ger- 
shon,  Salomon  b.-Melcch,  giving  also  a German  expla- 
nation of  the  difficult  expressions,  and  an  abridgment 
of  Alsheich’s  exposition  called  B,,2"I3S  3 and  (3.)  .4 
Commentary  on  the  Sabbatic  Lessons  from  the  Prophets, 
entitled  “CS,  the  face  of  Isaac  (Wandsbeck,  1730), 

which  consists  of  excerpts  from  nine  of  the  most  distin- 
guished commentators,  viz.  Rashi,  Ibn  Ezra,  D.  Kimchi, 
Levi  b.-Gershon,  Abrabanel,  Alsheich,  Samuel  b.-Lania- 
do,  J.  Arama,  and  Joseph  Albo.  The  works  of  Isaac  b.- 
Elia  are  very  valuable,  inasmuch  as  they  enable  the 
Biblical  student  to  see  on  one  page  the  expositions  of 
the  best  and  most  famous  Jewish  commentators  on  ev- 
ery difficult  passage,  without  being  obliged  to  search  for 
them  in  inaccessible  and  costly  volumes. — Kitto,  Bibli- 
cal Cyclopaedia,  ii,  410. 

Isaac  ben-Gikatilla.  See  Ibx-Gikatilt,a. 

Isaac  ben-Jacob  Alfasi  or  Alcalai,  one  of 
the  most  distinguished  Talmudical  scholars  of  the  Mid- 
dle Ages,  was  born  at  Cala-IIammad.  near  Fez,  in  Afri- 
ca, about  1013.  It  had  been  the  custom  among  Jewish 
Rabbis  to  follow  in  the  interpretation  of  the  Talmud  the 
decisions  of  the  Gaonim,  and  thus  direct  inquiry  and  in- 
dependence of  thought  had  well-nigh  become  not  only 
obsolete,  but  even  impossible.  But  when  Alfasi  had  be- 
come sufficiently  familiar  with  the  Talmudic  writings 
to  make  his  voice  heard  among  his  Jewish  brethren,  he 
evinced  such  an  independence  of  thought,  and  a mind 
of  such  penetration,  that  he  was  soon  acknowledged  not 
only  on  Africa’s  shore,  but  even  on  the  other  side  of  the 
sea,  by  Spain’s  Jewish  savans,  as  one  of  the  ablest  in- 
terpreters of  their  tradition.  A work  which  he  publish- 
ed at  this  time,  r‘Z^Pin  “£D,  or  the  Ihdacha's  of  the 
whole  Talmud,  intended  as  a Talmudical  compendium 
(published  at  Cracow,  1597, 8vo;  Basle,  1602, 8vo), which 
has  preserved  its  authority  even  to  the  present  day,  still 
further  increased  his  renown.  During  a time  of  perse- 
cution (1088),  being  obliged  to  flee  his  native  country, 
he  sought  refuge  in  Cordova,  and  there  he  was  received 
with  great  honor.  But  his  distinction  as  a Talmudist, 
and  the  kind  offices  of  his  Spanish  brethren,  seem  to 
have  annoyed  some  of  the  more  distinguished  Rabbis 
of  Spain.  A controversy,  into  which  he  was  unwilling- 
ly drawn,  with  Ibn-Gia  and  Ibn-Albalda,  became  espe- 
cially severe.  After  the  death  of  Ibn-Gia,  he  removed 
to  Lucena,  and  was  there  appointed  the  successor  of  his 
former  opponent.  But  his  controversy  with  Ibu-Albal- 
da  continued  until  the  death  of  the  latter  (1094),  when 


672 


ISAAC 


ISAAC  BEX-JEIIITDAII 

Alfasi  adopted  a son  of  Ibn-Albalda,  and  made  him  one 
of  bis  most  faithful  adherents,  lie  died  in  1 103.  A 
list  of  the  different  editions  of  his  works  may  be  found 
in  Fiirst,  Bibliotheca  Juilaica,  i,  34  sq.  See  Griitz,  Gesch. 
d.  Judea,  vi,  70  sq.,  92  sq. ; Monk, Notice  sur  A boulwahd, 
}).  4 sq. ; Pinsker,  I.ikute  Kadmonijot,  text  No.  210,  and 
note  X.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Isaac  ben-Jehudah.  See  Ibx-Giath. 

fsaac  ben-Joseph,  called  also  Isaac  de  Cor- 
BKii.,  was  born  in  Corbeil.  a city  in  France,  towards  the 
beginning  of  the  13th  century,  and  died  in  1280  accord- 
ing to  Rossi  (Jachia  Ghedalia  and  Abraham  Zakuth  say, 
the  one  1240,  the  other  1270).  He  is  the  author  of  the 
celebrated  work  entitled  ilbia  V,Ammudey  Goleh 

(Constantinople,  1510, 4to;  Cremona,  1557, 4to;  and  with 
glosses  by  Perez  ben-Elia,  and  indications  of  the  pas- 
sages quoted  from  the  Bible  and  the  Talmud,  Cracow, 
1590,  4to).  This  work  is  taken  from  the  n^’3  IS 5 
*n5  ( Sepher  Mitsvoth  Gadol)  of  Moses  of  Coucy,  and  is 
known  also  by  the  name  of  Semak  (from  the  initials  of 
the  three  Hebrew  words  Sepher  Mitsvoth  Eaton).  It 
contains  a synopsis  of  the  precepts  of  the  Jewish  relig- 
ion. It  is  divided  into  seven  parts,  each  containing  reg- 
ulations for  one  day  of  the  week.  Isaac  wrote  it  in  1277, 
at  the  request  of  the  French  Jews,  who  desired  to  have 
a dear  and  convenient  manual  to  guide  them  in  matters 
pertaining  to  their  religion.  It  is  also  known  under  the 
Latin  title  of  Columnc e captivitatis,  and  still  more  fre- 
quently as  the  Liber  Preeceptorum  parvus.  Several  oth- 
er copies  of  it  were  made  by  French  as  well  as  German 
Rabbis,  Jekutiel  Salmon  ben-Mose,  of  Posen,  made  a 
compendium  of  the  work  (Cracow,  1579, 4to).  See  Bar- 
tolocci,  Magna  Biblioth.  Rabbin. ; Wolf,  Biblioth.  He- 
braica  ; Rossi,  Dizion.  storico  degli  A ytori  Ebrei ; Fiirst. 
Biblioth.  Judaica,  i,  186 ; Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Jude n,  vii,  131 ; 
Jost,  Gesch.  d.  Judenthums,  iii,  33.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Isaac  ben-Juda  (Abrabanel).  See  Abraba- 
neu 

Isaac  ben-Latif  or  Allatif,  a Jewish  philoso- 
pher of  some  note,  was  born  about  1270,  somewhere  in 
the  southern  part  of  Spain.  Of  his  early  history  scarce- 
ly anything  is  now  known.  But  some  of  his  works 
have  been  preserved,  and  from  notices  of  distinguished 
contemporaries  we  learn  that  he  was  inclined  to  favor 
the  Cabalists  (q.  v.).  He  is  highly  spoken  of  by  the 
Itabbins  of  his  day,  but  evidently,  judging  from  his 
works,  was  rather  two-sided  on  all  cabalistic  points,  so 
that  he  may  most  appropriately  be  said  to  have  stood 
“ with  one  foot  in  philosophy,  and  with  the  other  in  the 
Cabala.”  He  died  some  time  in  the  first  half  of  the  14tli 
century.  Of  his  ■works  are  printed  “blip  b“ 
a Commentary  on  Kohelet  (Constantinople,  1554,  8vo) : 
— ‘YPS  and  “b*rn  a Cosmology  (Vien. 

1862,  edited  by  S.  Stern) : — ’’(H  “iV'V,  a work  on 
Dogmatics,  Religious  Philosophy,  and  the  Physical  Sci- 
ences, in  4 parts : — r’nb'iFl  b,  a History  of  Man ; 
etc.  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.Juden,  vii,  220  sq. ; Jost,  Gesch. 
d.  Judenthinns,  iii,  80 ; Sachs,  Kerem  Chemed,  viii,  88  sq. ; 
Fiirst,  Bibliotheca  Judaica,  ii,  224.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Isaac  ben-Mose.  See  I’uofiat  Duran. 

Isaac  ben-Moses,  also  called  Avo.ii,  who  flour- 
ished in  the  latter  half  of  the  10th  century,  deserves  our 
notice  as  the  author  of  (1.)  a Commentary  on  the  Penta- 
teuch, entitled  bx  V"Z'T\1T,  or  Consolations  of  God  (Sa- 
loniki,  1578-9);  and  (2.)  a Commentary  on  Ecclesiastes, 
entitled  rbnp  b^np“,  or  the  Gatherer  of  the  Congre- 
gation (ibid.  1597),  which  are  both  valuable  contribu- 
tions to  the  exegctical  literature  of  the  O.-T.  Scriptures. 
See  Kitto,  Bib!.  Cyclop,  ii,  410;  Steinschneider,  Catol. 
Lib.  Jfebr.  in  Biblioth.  Bod.  col.  1139. 

Isaac  ben  - Schescheth  ( Barfat ),  one  of  the 
most  distinguished  Rabbis  of  the  14th  century,  ivas  bom 
about  1310,  at  or  near  Saragossa  (Spain),  lie  presided 


over  the  congregation  at  Saragossa  for  a number  of 
years,  and  when,  in  1391,  the  persecutions  instituted 
against  the  Jew's  made  it  impossible  for  him  to  remain, 
he  removed  to  Algiers,  where  he  continued  to  hold  a 
like  position  until  his  death,  about  1444,  and  appointed 
as  his  successor  the  celebrated  Simon  ben-Simacli  Du- 
ran (q.  v.).  He  was  especially  celebrated  for  his  thor- 
ough acquaintance  with  Jewish  tradition.  Not  only 
from  all  parts  of  Spain,  but  from  the  different  parts  of 
Europe,  he  was  constantly  invited  to  express  his  opin- 
ion on  the  meaning  of  obscure  Talmudical  passages. 
These  wrere  collected,  and  form  a very  important  source 
for  the  study  of  the  interpretation  of  the  Talmud,  and 
convey  at  the  same  time  a pretty  accurate  idea  of  the 
state  of  the  Jew's  in  his  day,  not  only  in  Spain  and  Al- 
giers, but  in  France  and  even  other  countries  as  well. 
His  works  are  nibxd,  a collection  of  Hala- 

choth  (edited  by  Samuel  Levi  in  2 parts,  Constantinople, 
1547,  fol.  and  often) : — b?  2,  or  Commentary  on 
the  Pentateuch,  with  notes  from  the  Talmud f’w 
also  a work  on  the  Talmud.  The  latter  two,  we  think, 
still  remain  in  IMS.  form.  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden, 
viii,  33  sq.,  109  sq. ; Jost,  Gesch.  d.  Judenthums,  iii,  87 ; 
Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Judaica,  ii,  145.  (J.  H.AY.) 

Isaac  ben-Suleiman  ( Salomo ) Israeli,  a Jew-- 
isli  philosopher  and  philologian,  was  born  in  Egypt 
about  845.  He  was  a physician  by  profession,  and  as 
such  attained  to  very  high  distinction,  serving  from  904 
to  his  death  at  Kairuan,  as  private  physician  to  the 
reigning  prince,  and  celebrated  as  the  author  of  sever- 
al medical  works  valuable  even  in  our  day.  But  also  as 
philologian  and  philosopher  he  attained  great  notoriety, 
more  particularly  as  the  author  of  a philosophical  com- 
. mentarv  on  the  first  chapters  of  Genesis,  treating  of  the 
Creation,  of  which,  however,  only  a part  is  now’  extant. 
It  bore  the  title  of  Sefer  Jezirah,  whence  the  error  that 
he  wrote  a commentary  on  the  book  Jezirah.  He  died 
about  940.  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  v,  282  sq.  (J. 
H.  AY.) 

Isaac  Blitz.  See  Jekuthtel  ben-Isaac. 

Isaac  Campanton.  See  Kampaxton. 

Isaac,  Daniel,  a prominent  Methodist  minister, 
commonly  designated  as  the  AYesleyan  “Polemic  Di- 
vine,” was  born  at  Caythorpe,  in  the  county  of  Lincoln, 
England,  July  7,  1778.  He  wras  early  devoted  to  books, 
and,  on  his  conversion  in  his  nineteenth  year,  he  at  once 
determined  to  devote  his  life  to  the  w'ork  of  the  Chris- 
tian ministry.  In  1800  he  joined  the  Conference  on 
probation,  supplying  at  this  time  a vacancy  on  Grimsby 
Circuit.  He  soon  rose  to  great  distinction  among  his 
brethren  in  the  ministry,  and  was  appointed  to  some  of 
the  most  prominent  charges  at  the  command  of  his  de- 
nomination. May  20, 1832,  while  in  Manchester  preach- 
ing in  behalf  of  the  Sunday-school  work,  he  was  seized 
with  paralysis,  from  the  effects  of  which  he  never  recov- 
ered. At  the  session  of  the  next  Conference  he  wras 
present,  and  believed  himself  sufficiently  recovered  to 
re-enter  upon  active  work,  and  w’as  appointed  to  l'ork 
Circuit,  an  old  and  favorite  circuit,  to  which  he  was  now 
sent  for  the  third  time.  But  he  began  to  fail  fast,  and 
died  in  the  midst  of  his  work,  March  21, 1834.  Speak- 
ing of  the  abilities  of  Daniel  Isaac,  the  Rev.  Samuel 
Dunn  says:  “He  w’as  an  independent  thinker,  acute 
reasoner,  formidable  opponent,  dexterous  polemic,  sound 
theologian,  striking,  instructive,  extemporaneous  preach- 
er, perspicuous  w-riter,  generous  benefactor,  faithful 
friend,  and  amiable  Christian.  His  intellect  was  orig- 
inal, subtle,  analogical,  penetrating,  clear,  strong.  II is 
manner  was  deliberate,  grave,  conversational,  pointed, 
humorous,  sarcastic,  ironical.  The  sagaeious  Henry 
Moore  remarked : ‘ Daniel  Isaac,  like  Paul,  reasoned 
with  his  hearers  out  of  the  Scriptures;  and  he  kept  in 
them,  never  went  out  of  them,  and  never  reasoned  him- 
self out  of  them.’  If  at  any  time  he  drew  a smile  from 
his  hearers,  he  would  maintain  the  utmost  gravity  He 


ISAAC  IBX-ALBALTA 


673 


ISAAC  LEVITA 


displayed  great  power  in  grappling  with  the  conscience, 
and  in  bringing  to  light  the  hidden  things  of  darkness. 
Of  the  ludicrous  he  had  a marvellous  perception,  and 
could  present  an  object  in  such  a light  as  to  excite  the 
indignation  or  the  loathing  of  those  who  before  admired 
it.  He  painted  from  life.  Many  hearers  were  disgust- 
ed with  their  own  likeness  as  they  saw  it  in  the  clear 
mirror  he  held  before  them.  He  was  never  declamatory 
or  ornate.  In  debate  he  was  remarkably  cool,  calm, 
collected,  keen,  argumentative,  and  close.  There  was 
no  trembling  hesitancy,  quibbling,  or  artifice.  He  en- 
gaged in  no  sham  tight ; never  brandished  the  sword  at 
a distance,  but  came  at  once  to  close  quarters,  grappled 
with  his  opponent,  pierced  his  vitals,  and  took  from  him 
his  armor.”  lint  the  great  strength  of  Daniel  Isaac  lay 
in  his  pen,  and  he  wielded  it  with  especial  ability  in 
matters  of  controversy,  llis  works  are,  Universal  Res- 
toration (X.  Y.  1830, 12mo),  in  which  he  meets  the  ob- 
jections of  the  Universalists  to  the  eternity  of  punish- 
ment : — Sermons  on  the  Person  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
(Loud.  1815):  — Ecclesiastical  Claims  (Loud.  181G),  the 
views  of  which  his  Conference  disapproved,  but  to 
which,  in  a reply,  he  steadfastly  adhered.  Dr.  George 
Smith  ( History  of  Wesleyan  Methodism,  iii,  7)  says 
of  this  work  and  the  action  of  the  Conference:  “In 
many  important  respects  the  work  does  great  credit  to 
the  author’s  industry  and  research.  It  contains  the 
most  convincing  proofs,  from  Scripture  and  history,  of 
the  groundless  character  and  the  extravagant  claims 
put  forth  on  behalf  of  the  ministerial  order  by  Papists 
and  High-Churchmen,  and  clearly  shows  the  contra- 
dictions, impieties,  and  absurdities  to  which  the  admis- 
sion of  these  claims  must  inevitably  lead.  But  in  doing 
this,  Mr.  Isaac  went  so  far  as  to  impugn  the  scriptural 
position  of  the  Christian  ministry  as  held  by  Wesley 
and  the  Methodist  people.  Nor  is  this  the  only  serious 
defect  in  the  work;  some  passages  therein  are  grossly 
indelicate  and  irreverent,  if  not,  indeed,  profane  (from 
this  charge,  however,  it  should  be  said,  others  seek  to 
free  Mr.  Isaac) ; while,  as  stated  in  the  resolution  of  the 
Conference,  its  ‘ general  spirit  and  style’  are  decidedly 
improper.  . . . The  ease  is  greatly  to  be  regretted.  Mr. 
Isaac’s  ability,  energy,  and  sterling  worth  are  fully  ad- 
mitted, and  it  is  equally  clear  to  our  judgment,  from  a 
careful  perusal  of  the  work,  that  the  Conference  were 
not  only  justified  in  adopting  the  course  they  pursued, 
but  were  compelled  to  pursue  it  by  the  circumstances 
of  the  case.”  His  next  work  was  published  whilst  he 
was  stationed  at  Leicester,  and  on  terms  the  most  friend- 
ly with  Robert  Hall,  the  celebrated  Baptist  minister. 
It  was  entitled  Baptism  Discussed , This  volume  Hall 
would  never  read;  but,  when  urged  to  do  it  by  his 
friends,  he  remarked,  in  good  temper,  “ If  he  has  ex- 
posed our  views  of  baptism  as  he  exposed  the  Episco- 
palians in  his  Ecclesiastical  Claims , the  Lord  have  mercy 
upon  ns.”  Isaac  also  wrote  pamphlets  against  the  use 
of  instrumental  music  in  the  house  of  God,  and  on  the 
Leeds  organ  discussions.  He  edited  the  Life  of  his  fa- 
ther, Memoirs  of  the  Rev.  John  St  r a we,  and  published 
sketches  of  the  Lives  of  Robert  Bolton , John  Corbett , 
awl  other  old  Divines.  In  182G  he  began,  at  the  insti- 
gation of  the  Rev.  Samuel  Dunn,  a work  on  the  Atone- 
ment, which  made  its  appearance  a few  years  after.  His 
works  were  edited  after  his  death  by  the  venerable  John 
Burdsall,  and  published  at  London  (1828,  in  3 vols.  8vo). 
See  Everett,  Polemic  Divine,  or  Memoirs,  etc.,  of  Rev. 
Dan.  Isaac  (Loud.  1839);  Stevens,  Hist,  of  Methodism, 
iii,  482  sq.  (J.I1.W.) 

Isaac  Ibn-Albalia,  a Jewish  writer  of  great  dis- 
tinction, was  born  at  Cordova  about  1035.  lie  mani- 
fested at  an  early  age  superior  talents  and  great  thirst 
for  learning.  Besides  the  study  of  the  Talmud,  and  of 
philosophy,  he  was  eager  for  the  acquisition  of  a thor- 
ough knowledge  of  astronomy  and  the  mathematical 
sciences,  and  when  thirty  years  old  began  a commen- 
tary on  the  most  difficult  parts  of  the  Talmud,  under  the 
title  Kupat  ha-Rochelim,  but  it  was  so  extensive  a work 
IV.— U u 


that  he  did  not  live  long  enongh  to  complete  it.  He 
also  attempted  an  astronomical  work  on  the  principle 
of  the  Jewish  mode  of  calculating  the  calendar,  under 
the  title  Ibbur  (about  10G5).  Becoming  a favorite  of 
the  reigning  prince  of  Spain,  he  was  honored  with  the 
distinguished  position  of  nasi  and  grand  rabbi  of  the 
Jews  of  that  domain.  lie  died  about  1094.  See  Griitz, 
Gesch.  d.  Juden , vi,  72.  ( J.  1 1 . W.) 

Isaac  Ibn-Giat.  See  Ibx-Giat. 

Isaac  Israeli  ben-Josef,  a very  distinguished 
Jewish  writer  who  flourished  at  Toledo  in  the  first  half 
of  the  14th  century  (1300-1340),  deserves  our  notice  as 
the  author  of  fibi?  TiO?,  or  The  Foundation  of  the 
World,  a masterly  production  on  Jewish  chronology, 
including  also  the  entire  lield  of  the  science  of  astrono- 
my, both  theoretically  and  practically  delineated  (Ber- 
lin, 1777, 4to;  and  a better  edition,  ibid.  1848, 4to).  This 
work,  of  which  a part  of  the  MS.  lias  been  preserved, 
was  written  about  1310  at  the  express  wish  of  Israeli’s 
teacher,  Asher  ben-Jechiel.  lie  also  compiled  tables  of 
Jewish  chronology  under  the  title  of  J5J1  “HO  (Zol- 
kiew,  1805, 8vo,  et  el,).  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  vii, 
290;  Carmolv,  Itineraires,  p.  224;  B.  Goldberg,  Isaac 
Israeli  (in  the  Lib.  d.  Or.  1845),  c.  433-435;  Fiirst,  JSib- 
liot  h.  Judaica,  ii,  150.  (J.  11.  W.) 

Isaac  Levita,  or  Johann  Isaac  Levi,  as  he  call- 
ed himself  after  his  change  from  Judaism,  one  of  the 
most  celebrated  Jewish  savans  of  the  16th  century,  was 
born  at  YVetzlar  in  1515.  lie  was  thoroughly  prepared 
by  his  friends  for  the  Rabbinical  office,  and  filled  it  for 
years  with  great  distinction ; but,  becoming  impressed 
with  the  truthfulness  of  the  Christian  interpretation  of 
the  Messianic  predictions,  he  and  his  son  both,  after  a 
careful  and  extended  study  of  the  prophecies,  forsook 
the  faith  of  their  forefathers,  and  joined  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church.  Some  Jewish  writers  have  attributed 
this  course  to  a desire  for  promotion  in  literary  circles, 
which  as  a Jew  were  closed  to  him.  But  there  is  no 
reason  to  believe  it  other  than  the  result  of  associa- 
tion with  Christians,  and  the  study  of  the  writings  of 
Christian  commentators  on  the  prophecies,  especially 
of  Isaiah  (more  particularly  chapter  Ini'),  which  is  said 
first  to  have  led  him  to  a study  of  the  Messianic  predic- 
tions. After  his  conversion  (1546)  he  was  appointed 
professor  of  Hebrew  and  Chaldee  at  the  city  of  Lb  wen, 
and  in  1551  was  called  to  a like  position  in  the  Univer- 
sity of  Cologne.  He  became  a vigorous  defendant  of 
the  Hebrew  text  of  the  Bible,  and  replied  to  Lindanus, 
who  had  attacked  it  (in  his  De  optima  Scripturas  inter- 
pretandi  genere,  Cologne,  1538),  in  a work  entitled  De- 
fensio  Veritatis  Ilebrcece.  sacrarum  scriptnraruni  (Col. 
1559).  He  published  also  the  following  works  on  He- 
brew grammar,  which  rank  among  the  best  in  that  lan- 
guage: (1.)  An  Introduction,  to  the  Hebrew  Grammar, 
and  to  the  Art  of  Writing  a pure  I/ebreio  style,  entitled 
“1T2X  SPOTS  (Colon.  1553),  in  which  he  gave  dif- 
ferent specimens  of  Hebrew  writing,  dialogues,  and  epis- 
tles, both  from  the  O.  T.  and  other  llchrew  writings,  as 
well  as  the  books  of  Obadiah  and  Jonah  in  Hebrew, 
with  a Latin  translation : — (2.)  A grammatical  treatise 
entitled  Meditationes  Ilebraicm  in  Artem  Gramm,  per 
integrum  librum  Ruth  explicate ; adjecta  sunt  queedam 
contra  J).  I.  Fbrsteri  lexicon  (Colon.  1558),  which  con- 
sists of  a useful  analysis  and  excellent  translation  of  the 
entire  book  of  Ruth  : — (3.)  Notes  in  Clenardi  Tabulam, 
ete.  (Colon.  1555),  being  annotations  on  Clenard’s  Ta- 
bles of  Hebrew  Grammar: — (4.)  An  excellent  introduc- 
tion to  tie  edition  of  Elias  Levita’s  Chaldee  Lexicon,  en- 
titled “(Ta-nrs  (Colon.  1560).  lie  likewise  translated 
several  scientific  works  written  by  Jews  into  Latin,  and 
was  an  assistant  to  Pagnini  on  his  great  lexicological 
work.  See  Bartolocci,  Bill.  Rabb. ; J ocher,  Gelehrt.  Lex. 
Addenda,  ii,  2332  sq. ; Rivet,  Isagoge  ad  Sacr.  Script.; 
Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gener.  xxvi,  10 ; Kitto,  Bibl.  Cyclop. 
ii,  410.  (J.H.W.) 


ISAAC  PULGAR 


674 


ISAIAH 


Isaac  Pulgar.  See  Pulgak. 

Isaac  “ the  Blind,”  a Jewish  writer  of  the  13th 
century  (from  1190-1210),  is  noted  as  the  reputed  author 
of  the  modern  cabalistic  system.  See  Cabala.  Some 
writers,  as  is  well  known,  assert  that  the  Cabala  orig- 
inated with  him,  but  this  is  doubted  by  the  best  author- 
ities, and  he  is  considered  only  to  have  been  the  first  to 
give  a new  impulse  to  the  study  of  this  peculiar  philo- 
sophical system,  to  oppose  the  inroads  of  Maimonides’s 
(q.  v.)  philosophical  interpretation  of  the  Scriptures.  It 
is  certain,  at  least,  that  he  had  much  to  do  with  oue  of 
the  mystical  books  of  the  Cabala,  the  Jezirah.  His 
theories  were  further  developed  after  his  death  by  his 
two  disciples  Ezra  and  Azariel  of  Zerona.  Griitz  ( Gescli . 
d.  Judea,  vii,  74  sq.,  444  sq.)  seems  inclined  to  favor  the 
assertion  of  Joseph  Ibn-Gikatilla,  that  the  Cabala  sys- 
tem was  the  production  of  Isaac  the  Blind,  and  that  nei- 
ther the  sacred  Scriptures  nor  Jewish  tradition  bear  any 
reference  to  prove  its  earlier  existence.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Isaacus.  See  Isaac  Levita. 

Isabella  of  Castile,  queen  of  Spain,  one  of  the 
most  celebrated  characters  of  the  15th  century,  deserves 
our  notice  on  account  of  the  part  she  acted  in  the  relig- 
ions history  of  Spain,  and  those  dominions  subject  to 
her  rule.  Isabella,  born  April  23,  1541,  was  the  daugh- 
ter of  John  II,  king  of  Castile  and  Leon.  In  14G9  she 
married  Ferdinand  V,  surnamed  “the  Catholic,”  king  of 
Aragon.  She  was  not  the  heir-apparent  to  the  throne 
on  the  death  of  her  father  in  1481,  as  she  had  an  elder 
sister.  But,  assisted  by  the  powerful  armies  of  her  hus- 
band, a man  of  some  sterling  qualities,  but  of  very  lit- 
tle conscience,  she  succeeded  in  ascending  the  throne. 
Mr.  Prescott  and  most  modern  historians  seek  to  re- 
lieve her  of  the  stigma  that  she  was  responsible  for 
the  cruelties  that  were  inflicted  on  those  of  her  sub- 
jects who  chose  to  differ  with  the  Church  of  Rome  in 
their  worship  of  their  divine  Maker.  It  seems  certain 
that  she  was  deceived  by  the  Jesuits,  and  consented  to 
these  outrages  only  because,  in  her  fervor  for  the  Roman 
Catholic  cause,  she  believed  the  very  existence  of  the 
Church  of  Rome  threatened;  and,  though  we  pity  her 
weakness  in  the  hour  when  resoluteness  on  her  part  was 
most  needed  to  defend  and  protect  her  subjects,  she  saw 
that,  Spain  once  reformed,  Romanism  would  have  passed 
from  the  world  in  the  Kith  century,  instead  of  still  lin- 
gering in  our  midst  at  this  late  hour.  But  if  we  excuse 
the  conduct  of  queen  Isabella  of  Castile  on  the  ground 
of  her  piety  and  misled  devotion  to  the  Church  of  Rome, 
quite  otherwise  must  we  treat  the  conduct  of  her  hus- 
band. lie  it  is  upon  whom  must  fall  the  guilt  of  the 
outrages  committed  in  the  name  of  God  in  Spain  and 
other  lands  under  her  dominion  by  the  “ Holy  League.” 
It  was  the  desire  of  money,  the  longing  for  "power” and 
extension  of  his  government  to  tiie  American  shore 
that  made  him  the  docile  follower  of  the  Jesuits,  and 
brought  ruin  upon  Spain.  But  he  was  well  rewarded 
for  Ins  low  and  parsimonious  conduct  by  the  disturb- 
ances which  followed  the  death  of  Isabella  (Nov.  26. 
1561)  in  Castile,  and  his  expulsion  from  that  country, 
over  which,  by  the  will  of  liis  departed  wife,  he  had  been 
appointed  regent.  See  Sfaix.  (J.  II.  W.) 
Isagogics.  See  I.vnionrcTiox. 

Isai  ah  (prop.  lleb.  Yeshayah',  saved  by 

Jehovah;  but  this  shorter  form  occurs,  with  reference 
to  this  person,  only  in  the  Rabbinic  title  of  the  book: 
the  text  always  has  the  name  in  the  paragogic  form 
Yeshaya'hu.  Sept.,  Josephus,  and  N.T/Hera- 

iag,  Vulg.  Isaias  • Auth.  Vers.  N.  T.  “Esaias:”  but  the 
Heb.  name,  both  in  the  simple  and  prolonged  forms, 
occurs  of  other  persons  likewise,  although  differentlv 
Anglicized  in  the  Eng.  Vers. ; see  Jkshaiaii  ; Jesaiaii), 
one  of  the  most  important  of  “the  Greater  Prophets,” 
who  gave  title  to  one  of  the  books  of  Scripture. 

I.  Personal  History  of  the  Prophet.— Little  is  known 
respecting  the  circumstances  of  Isaiah’s  life.  Kimehi 


(A.D.  1230)  says  in  his  commentary  on  Isa.  i,  1,  “We 
know  not  his  race,  nor  of  what  tribe  he  was.”  His  fa- 
ther’s name  was  Amoz  (i,  1),  whom  the  fathers  of  the 
Church  confound  with  the  prophet  Amos,  because  they 
were  unacquainted  with  Hebrew,  and  in  Greek  the  two 
names  are  spelled  alike  (so  Clem.  Alex. ; Jerome,  Prof 
in  Am.;  August.  Civ.  I).  xviii,  27).  See  Aiioz.  The 
opinion  of  the  Rabbins  (Gemara,  Megilla , x,  2)  that 
Isaiah  was  the  brother  of  king  Amaziah  rests  also  on  a 
mere  etymological  combination  (see  Carpzov,  De  reyiis 
Jesaice  natulibus,  Rost.  1735).  Isaiah  resided  at  Jeru- 
salem, not  far  from  the  Temple  (eh.  vi).  We  learn  from 
ch.  vii  and  viii  that  he  was  married.  Two  of  his  sons 
are  mentioned,  Shear-jasliub  and  Maher-shalal-hash- 
baz.  These  significant  names,  which  he  gave  to  his 
sons,  prove  how  much  Isaiah  lived  in  his  vocation.  He 
did  not  consider  his  children  as  belonging  merely  to  him- 
self, but  rendered  them  living  admonitions  to  the  people. 
In  their  names  were  contained  the  two  chief  points  of 
his  prophetic  utterances:  one  recalled  to  mind  the  se- 
vere and  inevitable  judgment  wherewith  the  Lord  was 
about  to  visit  the  world,  and  especially  his  people ; the 
other,  which  signifies  “ The  remnant  shall  return,” 
pointed  out  the  mercy  with  which  the  Lord  would  re- 
ceive the  elect,  and  with  which,  in  the  midst  of  appar- 
ent destruction,  he  would  take  care  to  preserve  Ins  peo- 
ple and  his  kingdom.  Isaiah  calls  his  wile  a prophetess. 
This  indicates  that  his  marriage-life  was  not  only  con- 
sistent with  his  vocation,  but  that  it  was  intimately  in- 
terwoven with  it.  This  name  cannot  mean  the  wife  of 
a prophet,  but  indicates  that  the  prophetess  of  Isaiah 
had  a prophetic  gift,  like  Miriam,  Deborah,  and  Huldah. 
The  appellation  here  given  denotes  the  suitableness  as 
well  as  genuineness  of  their  conjugal  relation. 

Even  the  dress  of  the  prophet  was  subservient  to  his 
vocation.  According  to  xx,  2,  he  wore  a garment  of 
hair-clotli  or  sackcloth.  This  seems  also  to  have  been 
the  costume  of  Elijah,  according  to  2 Kings  i,  8;  and  it 
was  the  dress  of  John  the  Baptist  (Matt,  iii,  4).  Hairy 
sackcloth  is  in  the  Bible  the  symbol  of  repentance  (com- 
pare Isa.  xx,  11,  12,  and  1 Kings  xxi,  27).  This  cos- 
tume of  the  prophets  was  a sermo  propheticus  realis,  a 
prophetic  preaching  by  fact.  Before  he  has  opened  his 
lips  his  external  appearance  proclaims  peravottrt,  re- 
pent. 

It  is  held  traditionally  that  Isaiah  suffered  martyr- 
dom under  the  wicked  Manasseh,  by  being  sawn  in  two 
under  a memorable  tree  long  said  to  have  stood  in  the 
vicinity  of  Jerusalem  (Gemara,  Jebam.  iv,  13;  compare 
Sanhedr.  f.  103  b,  and  the  Targumites,  in  Assemani,  Ca- 
talog. Bibl.  Vat.  i,  452;  Trypho,  p.  349;  Jerome,  in  Jes. 
Ivii;  Origen,  in  Psalm,  xxvii,  in  Matt,  xxiii ; Tertullian, 
Patient,  xiv;  Augustine,  Civ.  Dei , xviii,  24;  Chronic. 
Pasch.  p.  155).  The  traditional  spot  of  the  martyrdom 
is  a very7  old  mulberry-tree  which  stands  near  the  Pool 
of  Siloam,  on  the  slopes  of  Ophel,  below  the  south-east 
wall  of  Jerusalem.  A similar  account  of  his  death  is 
contained  in  the  Ascension  of  the  Prophet  Isaiah,  an 
apocryphal  work,  the  Greek  original  of  which  was 
known  to  the  early  Church  (Epiphan.  liar,  xl,  2:  Je- 
rome, in  Jes.  xlir,  4,  p.  761,  etc.),  and  of  which  only  re- 
cently an  Ethiopic  version  has  been  found  and  translated 
by  Dr.  Laurence,  Oxford,  1819  (see  Nitzsch,  in  the  >Stn- 
dien  vnd  Krit.  1830,  ii,  209;  Engelhardt,  Kirehengeseh. 
A bhandl,  207  sq.).  The  same  fate  of  Isaiah  appears  to 
be  alluded  to  by  Josephus  (Ant.  x,  3,  1). 

II.  Time  of  Isaiah. — The  heading  of  this  book  places 
the  prophet  under  the  reigns  of  Uzziah,  Jotham,  Ahaz, 
and  Hezekiah,  kings  of  Judah;  and  an  examination  of 
the  prophecies  themselves,  independently  of  the  head- 
ing, leads  us  to  the  same  chronological  results.  Chap- 
ter vi,  in  which  is  related  the  definite  call  of  Isaiah  to 
his  prophetic  office,  is  thus  headed : “ In  the  year  in 
which  king  Uzziah  died  I saw  the  Lord,”  ete.  The 
collection  of  prophecies  is,  therefore,  not  chronological- 
ly arranged,  and  the  utterances  in  the  preceding  chap- 
ters (i  to  vi)  belong,  for  chronological  and  other  reasons, 


ISAIAH 


675 


ISAIAH 


to  the  last  year  of  the  reign  of  Uzziah,  although  the  ut-  1 
teranccs  in  chapters  ii,  iii,  iv,  and  v have  been  errone- 
ously assigned  to  the  reign  of  Jothara.  As,  however,  1 
the  position  of  affairs  was  not  materially  changed  under 
the  reign  of  Jotham,  we  may  say  that  the  first  chapter 
was  uttered  during  that  reign.  The  continuation  of 
prophetic  authorship,  or  the  writing  down  of  uttered 
prophecies,  depended  upon  the  commencement  of  new  | 
historical  developments,  such  as  took  place  under  the 
reigns  of  Ahaz  and  Hezckiah.  Several  prophecies 
(namely,  vii-x,  4;  i,  2-31 ; xvii)  belong  to  the  reign  of 
Ahaz  (xiv,  28-32,  apparently  to  the  occasion  of  his 
death);  and  most  of  the  subsequent  prophecies  to  the 
reign  of  Ilezekiah.  The  prophetic  ministry  of  Isaiah 
under  Ilezekiah  is  also  described  in  a historical  section 
contained  in  chapters  xxxvi-xxxix.  The  data  which 
are  contained  in  this  section  come  down  to  the  fifteenth 
year  of  the  reign  of  Ilezekiah:  consequently  we  are  in 
the  possession  of  historical  documents  proving  that  the 
prophetic  ministry  of  Isaiah  was  in  operation  during 
about  forty-five  years,  commencing  in  the  year  B.C. 
756,  and  extending  to  the  year  B.C.  711.  Of  this  pe- 
riod, at  least  one  year  belongs  to  the  reign  of  Uzziah, 
sixteen  to  the  reign  of  Jothatn,  fourteen  to  the  reign  of 
Ahaz,  and  fourteen  and  upwards  to  the  reign  of  lleze- 
kiah.  It  has  been  maintained,  however,  by  Stiiudlin, 
Jahn,  Bertholdt,  Gesenius,  and  others,  that  Isaiah  lived 
to  a much  later  period,  and  that  his  life  extended  to  the  j 
reign  of  Manasseh,  the  successor  of  Ilezekiah.  For  this 
opinion  the  following  reasons  are  addueed : 

(1.)  According  to  2 Chron.  xxxii,  32,  Isaiah  wrote 
the  life  of  king  Hezekiah.  It  would  hence  appear  that 
he  survived  that  king;  although  it  must  be  admitted 
that  in  2 Chron.  xxxii,  32,  where  Isaiah’s  biography  of 
Ilezekiah  is  mentioned,  the  important  words  “first  and 
last”  are  omitted;  while  in  xxvi,  22,  we  read,  “Now 
the  rest  of  the  acts  of  Uzziah,  Jirst  and  last,  did  Isaiah, 
the  son  of  Amoz,  write.” 

(2.)  We  find  (as  above  stated)  a tradition  current  in 
the  Talmud,  in  the  fathers,  and  in  Oriental  literature, 
that  Isaiah  suffered  martyrdom  in  the  reign  of  Manas- 
seh  by  being  sawn  asunder.  It  is  thought  that  an  allu- 
sion to  this  tradition  is  found  in  the  Epistle  to  the  He- 
brews (xi,37),  in  the  expression  they  were  sawn  asunder 
(tTrp{(jQi](Tav),  which  seems  to  harmonize  with  2 Kings 
xxi,  16,  “Moreover,  Manasseli  shed  innocent  blood  very 
much.” 

(3.)  The  authenticity  of  the  second  portion  of  the 


prophecies  of  Isaiah  being  admitted  (see  below),  the 
nature  of  this  portion  would  seem  to  confirm  the  idea 
that  its  author  had  lived  under  Manasseh.  The  style 
of  the  second  portion,  it  is  asserted,  is  so  different  from 
that  of  the  first  that  both  could  not  well  have  been 
composed  by  the  same  author,  except  under  the  suppo- 
sition that  a considerable  time  intervened  between  the 
composition  of  the  first  and  second  portion.  The  con- 
tents of  the  latter — such  as  the  complaints  respecting 
gross  idolatry,  the  sacrifice  of  children  to  idols,  the 
wickedness  of  rulers,  etc. — seem  to  be  applicable  neither 
to  the  times  of  the  exile,  into  which  the  prcplict  might 
have  transported  himself  in  the  spirit,  nor  to  the  period 
of  the  pious  Ilezekiah,  but  are  quite  applicable  to  the 
reign  of  Manasseh.  This  last  argument,  however,  is 
too  subjective  in  its  character  to  be  of  much  weight ; 
the  difference  of  style  referred  to  may  be  more  readily 
accounted  for  by  the  difference  in  the  topics  treated  of, 
and  it  is  a gratuitous  supposition  that  the  national  sins 
rebuked  in  the  later  prophecies  had  ceased  during  the 
reign  of  Hezekiah.  The  other  arguments  may  be  ad- 
mitted so  far  as  to  allow  a survivorship  on  the  part,  of 
the  prophet  beyond  the  sickness  of  Ilezekiah,  and  suffi- 
! ciently  into  the  reign  of  Manasseh  to  have  suffered 
martyrdom  at  the  order  of  the  latter,  but  it  does  not  ap- 
pear that  he  uttered  any  predictions  during  the  fifteen 
added  years  of  Hezekiah ; at  least  none  are  found  ex- 
tant that  seem  to  belong  to  that  period  (except  ch.  xl 
to  end,  which  may  be  assigned  to  the  year  ensuing  Hez- 
ekiah’s  recovery) ; his  great  age  and  the  absence  of  any 
special  occasion  may  well  account  for  his  silence,  and 
he  may  naturally  be  supposed  to  have  occupied  the 
time  in  writing  down  his  former  predictions.  Nor  will 
this  view,  which  seems  to  meet  all  the  requirements  in 
the  case,  require  to  be  extended  a life-time ; for  if  Isa- 
iah, like  Jeremiah,  was  called  to  the  prophetical  office  in 
his  youth,  perhaps  at  twenty  years  of  age,  he  would 
have  been  but  eighty  years  old  at  the  accession  of  Ma- 
nasseh (B.C.  696),  an  age  no  greater  than  that  of  IIo- 
sea,  whose  prophecies  extend  over  the  same  period  of 
sixty  years  (Hos.  i,  l). 

III.  Historical  Works  of  Isaiah. — Besides  the  collec- 
tion of  prophecies  which  has  been  preserved  to  us,  Isa- 
iah also  wrote  two  historical  works  (comp.  Isa.  xxxvi, 
3,  22).  It  was  part  of  the  vocation  of  the  prophets  to 
write  the  history  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  to  exhibit  in 
this  history  the  workings  of  the  law  of  retribution,  and 
to  exhort  to  the  true  worship  of  the  Lord  (see  Augusti, 


CHRONOLOGICAL  VIEW  OF  ISAIAH’S  PROPHECIES. 


vi : v ; ii,  6-22 ; iii ; iv,  1 ; ii,  1-5 ; iv,  2-6. 
i,  2-31. 

vii,  1-16;  viii,  1-4,  21,  22 ; ix,  1-7 ; viii,  5- 
20 ; ix,  8-21 ; x,  1-4 ; vii,  17-25. 

xvii. 

xiv,  2S-32. 

i,  1 ; xxviii ; xxiv  ; xxxiii ; xxv ; xxvi ; 
xxvii;  xi,  11-16;  xxxv  ; xii ; xxxii,  1- 
8 ; xxxiii,  13-24 ; xxviii,  5,  6,  16  ; xi,  1 
-10. 

XV;  xvi. 


Principal  Theme. 


Probable  Occasion. 


Divine  punishment  and  ultimate  mer- 
ey  on  the  nation. 

Rebuke  of  the  prevalent  apostasy. 

Rebuke  of  the  popular  want  of  faith 
and  justice,  and  typification  of  Mes- 
siah. 

Capture  of  Damascus  by  Assyria. 

Against  the  Philistines. 

I Generally  on  the  fate  of  the  land 

j and  the  a*ra  of  .Messiah. 

Against  the  Moabites. 


The  prophet's  inauguration.  756 


flTxxd ii3;  xxxi’4~9:  xxi)11-  j-  check  at  Jerusalem. 

i ^IVxxxvff.^5  XXH;  X,5_34;  xxsvi>2-|  j.  Defeat  of  Sennacherib, 
xiii ; xiv,  22,  23;  xxi,  1-10 ; xiv,  1-27.  , Overthrow  of  Babylon  and  return  of 

the  Jews. 

xxxviii,  1-6, 21, 22, 7-20 ; xxxix.  Cure  and  reproof  of  Hezekiah. 

Ivi,  9-12 ; lvii ; xlviii,  22  ; lviii ; lix ; lxiii ; 
lxiv;  1;  xl,  27-31;  xlviii,  1-21;  xlvii; 
xlii,  13-17 ; li ; Iii,  1-12  ; Xk  1,  2 ; xli,  8-1 
20;  xlix  ; xli,  1-7;  xliv,  21-28  ; xiv,  1-j 
13;  xli,  21-29;  xliii ; xliv,  6-20;  xiv,! 

14-25;  xlvi;  xl,  12-26;  xlii,  1-12:  xl,3; 

-11;  Iii,  13-15;  liii ; xlii,  18-25;  xliv,  1 
-5 : lx ; Ixi ; ixii  ; liv  ; lv  ; M,  1-8 ; lxv  ; 

i IXV1~ I 


Future  of  the  nation  and  person  of 
Messiah. 


Accession  of  Ahaz. 

Invasion  of  Jerusalem  by 
Rezin  and  Pekah. 

Invasion  of  Tiglath-pileser. 
Death  of  Ahaz. 

A summary. 

In  view  of  the  Assyrian  con- 
quest. 

{Progress  of  the  Assyrian 
j empire. 

(Sennacherib’s  invasion  of 
( Jerusalem. 

Culmination  of  Assyro-Bab- 
yloniau  power. 

Ilezekiah’s  sickness  and  van- 
ity. 


Concluding  summary. 


i™ 


ISAIAH 


676 


ISAIAH 


Emleit.  p.  290;  Bertholdt,  Finleit.  iv,  1349).  Most  of 
the  historical  hooks  in  the  Old  Testament  have  been 
written  by  prophets.  The  collectors  of  the  canon  placed 
most  of  these  hooks  under  the  head  prophets ; hence  it 
appears  that,  even  when  these  historical  works  were  re- 
modelled by  later  editors,  these  editors  were  themselves 
prophets.  "The  Chronicles  are  not  placed  among  the 
prophetical  books  so  called:  we  may  therefore  conclude 
that  they  were  not  written  by  a prophet.  But  their  au- 
thor constantly  indicates  that  lie  composed  his  work 
from  abstracts  taken  verbatim  from  historical  mono- 
graphies  written  by  the  prophets;  consequently  the 
hooks  of  Ruth,  Ezra,  Xehemiah,  and  Esther  are  the  only 
historical  books  of  the  Old  Testament  which  did  not 
originate  from  prophets. 

The  first  historical  work  of  Isaiah  was  a biography  of 
king  Uzziah  (comp.  2 Chron.  xxvi,  22),  “Now  the  rest 
of  the  acts  of  Uzziah,  first  and  last,  did  Isaiah  the  proph- 
et, the  son  of  Amoz,  write.”  The  second  historical  work 
of  Isaiah  was  a biography  of  king  Hezekiah,  which  was 
subsequently  inserted  in  the  annals  of  Judah  and  Israel. 
These  annals  consisted  of  a series  of  prophetic  mono- 
graphies,  which  were  received  partly  entire,  partly  in 
abstracts,  and  are  the  chief  source  from  which  the  in- 
formation contained  in  the  Chronicles  is  derived.  In 
this  work  of  Isaiah,  although  its  contents  were  chiefly  I 
historical,  numerous  prophecies  were  inserted.  Hence 
it  is  called  in  2 Chron.  xxxii,  32,  “th,  The 

Vision  of  Isaiah.  In  a similar  manner,  the  biography 
of  Solomon  by  Ahijah  is  called  in  2 Chron.  ix,  29,  “the 
prophecy  of  Ahijah.”  The  two  historical  works  of  Isa- 
iah were  lost,  together  with  the  annals  of  Judah  and  Is- 
rael, into  which  they  were  embodied.  Whatever  these 
annals  contained  that  was  of  importance  for  all  ages, 
has  been  preserved  to  ns  by  being  received  into  the  his- 
torical books  of  the  Old  Testament,  and  the  predictions 
of  the  most  distinguished  prophets  have  been  formed 
into  separate  collections.  After  this  was  effected,  less 
care  was  taken  to  preserve  the  more  diffuse  annals, 
which  also  comprehended  many  statements,  of  value 
only  for  particular  times  and  places. 

The  so-called  “Ascension  of  Isaiah”  is  a pseudepi- 
graphal  work  of  later  times,  originally  written,  it  would 
seem,  in  Creek  (AvafictTiKvv  ’Haaiov\  of  which  only 
an  old  Latin  translation  (.1  scensio  Isaiie)  was  known  to 
scholars,  until  Bp.  Laurence  discovered  and  published 
the  Ethiopia  version  (Oxford,  1819,  8vo).  See  the  cri- 
tiques above  quoted  on  Laurence’s  edit,  of  the  Ascension 
of  Isaiah;  also  Carpzov,  Introrhct.  iii,  p.  90;  Oesenius, 
Comment,  at  Isa.  i,  3 sq. ; Knobel,  Prophet,  ii,  176  sq. ; 
Stickel,  in  the  Ilall.  Eneyklop.  II,  xv,  371  sq. ; Stuart’s 
Comment,  on  the  Apocalypse,  Introd. ; Whist  on,  A uthen- 
tic  Records , i,  470 ; ( iieseier,  1 Isio  Jesaice  ilhistrata  (Cott. 
1832);  Ofrdror,  Prophetce  veteres  (Stuttg.  1840);  Jolo- 
wicz,  Ilimmelfahrt  u.  Vision  des  Proph.  Jes.  (Lpz.  1854) ; 
lie  heemefraart  van  den  profeet  Jesaja , in  the  Godge- 
Iterde  Bijdragen  for  1862,  pt.  vii,  p.  529-601.  See  Ai*oc- 

KYPllA;  REVELATIONS,  SpITKIOUS. 

IV.  Integral  Authenticity  of  the  Prophecies  of  Isaiah. 
— The  Jewish  synagogue,  and  the  Christian  Church 
during  all  ages,  have  considered  it  as  an  undoubted  fact 
that  the  prophecies  which  bear  the  name  of  Isaiah  real- 
ly originated  from  that  prophet.  Even  Spinoza  did  not 
expressly  assert,  in  his  Tractatus  Theo/ogico-Politinis 
(viii,  8),  that  the  book  of  Isaiah  consisted  of  a collection 
originating  from  a variety  of  authors,  although  it  is  usu- 
ally considered  that  he  maintained  this  opinion.  But 
in  the  last  quarter  of  the  18th  century  this  prevailing 
conviction  appeared  to  some  divines  to  be.  inconvenient. 
All  those  who  attack  the  integral  authenticity  of  Isaiah 
agree  in  considering  the  book  to  be  an  anthology,  or 
gleanings  of  prophecies,  collected  after  the  Babylonian 
exile,  although  they  differ  in  their  opinions  respecting 
the  origin  of  this  collection.  Koppe  gave  gentle  hints 
of  this  view,  which  was  first  explicitly  supported  by 
Eichhom  in  his  Introduction.  Eichhorn  advances  the 
hypothesis  that  a collection  of  Isaian  prophecies  (which 


might  have  been  augmented,  even  before  the  Babylo- 
nian exile,  by  several  not  genuine  additions)  formed  the 
basis  of  the  present  anthology,  and  that  the  collectors, 
after  the  Babylonian  exile,  considering  that  the  scroll 
on  which  they  were  written  did  not  form  a volume  pro- 
portionate to  the  size  of  the  three  other  prophetic  scrolls, 
containing  Ezekiel,  Jeremiah,  and  the  minor  prophets, 
annexed  to  the  Isaian  collection  all  other  oracles  at  hand 
whose  authors  were  not  known  to  the  editors.  In  this 
supposition  of  the  non-identity  of  date  and  authorship, 
many  German  scholars,  and  lately  also  Iiitzig  and  Ev- 
ald, followed  Eichhom.  Oesenius,  on  the  contrary,  main- 
tained, in  his  introduction  to  Isaiah,  that  all  the  non- 
Isaian  prophecies  extant  in  that  book  originated  from 
one  author,  and  were  of  the  same  date.  Umhreit  and 
Roster  on  the  main  point  follow  Gesenius,  considering 
chaps,  xl  to  lxvi  to  be  a continuous  whole,  written  by  a 
pseudo-Isaiah  who  lived  about  the  termination  of  the 
Babylonian  exile.  In  reference  to  other  portions  of  the 
book  of  Isaiah,  the  authenticity  of  which  has  been  ques- 
tioned, Umbreit  expresses  himself  doubtinglv,  and  Kbs- 
tor  assigns  them  to  Isaiah.  Gesenius  declines  to  answer 
the  question  how  it  happened  that  these  portions  were 
ascribed  to  Isaiah,  but  Iiitzig  felt  that  an  answer  to  it 
might  be  expected.  He  accordingly  attempts  to  ex- 
plain why  such  additions  were  made  to  Isaiah,  and  not 
to  any  of  the  other  prophetical  books,  by  the  extraordi- 
nary veneration  in  which  Isaiah  was  held.  He  says 
that  the  great  authority  of  Isaiah  occasioned  important 
and  distinguished  prophecies  to  be  placed  in  connection 
with  his  name.  But  he  himself  soon  after  destroys  the 
force  of  this  assertion  by  observing  that  the  great  au- 
thority of  Isaiah  was  especially  owing  to  those  prophe- 
cies which  were  falsely  ascribed  to  him.  A considera- 
ble degree  of  suspicion  must,  however,  attach  to  the 
boasted  certainty  of  such  critical  investigations,  if  we 
notice  how  widely  these  learned  men  differ  in  defining 
what  is  of  Isaian  origin  and  what  is  not,  although  they 
are  all  linked  together  by  the  same  fundamental  tend- 
ency and  interest.  There  are  very  few  portions  in  the 
whole  collection  whose  authenticity  has  not  been  called 
in  question  by  some  one  or  other  of  the  various  lmpugn- 
ers.  Almost  every  part  has  been  attacked  either  by 
Dbderlein,  or  by  Eichhom  (who,  especially  m a later 
work  entitled  Die  Ilebraischen  Propheten,  Getting.  1816 
to  1819,  goes  farther  than  all  the  others),  or  by  Justi 
(who,  among  the  earlier  adversaries  of  the  integral  au- 
thenticity of  Isaiah,  uses,  in  his  Vcrmischte  Belt riften 
[ vols.  i and  ii],  the  most  comprehensive  and,  apparently, 
the  best-grounded  arguments),  or  by  Paulus,  Rosenm id- 
ler, Bauer,  Bertholdt,  De  YVette, Gesenius,  Iiitzig,  Ewahl, 
Umbreit,or  others.  The  only  portions  left  to  Isaiah  are 
chaps,  i.  3-9 ; xvii.  xx,  xxviii,  xxxi.  and  xxxiii.  All  the 
other  chaps,  are  defended  by  some  and  rejected  by  oth- 
ers ; they  are  also  referred  to  widely  different  dates.  In 
the  most  modern  criticism,  however, we  observe  an  incli- 
nation again  to  extend  the  sphere  of  Isaian  authenticity 
as  much  as  the  dogmatic  principle  and  system  of  the 
critics  will  allow.  Recent  critics  are  therefore  disposed 
to  admit  the  genuineness  of  chaps,  i to  xxiii,  with  the 
only  exception  of  the  two  prophecies  against  Babylon  in 
chaps,  xiii  and  xiv.  and  in  chap,  xxi,  1-10.  Chapters 
xxviii-xxxiii  are  allowed  to  be  Isaian  by  Ewald,  Um- 
breit, and  others. 

Divines  who  were  not  linked  to  these,  critics  by  the 
same  dogmatical  interest  undertook  to  defend  the  in- 
tegrity of  Isaiah,  as  Hensler  ( Jesaias  neu  iibersetzt 
1<  88),  Piper  ( Integritas  Jesaice,  1793),  Beekhaus  ( Ueber 
die  Integritdt  der  Prophetischen  Schrifteu,  1796),  Jahn, 
in  his  Eiideitung,  who  was  the  most  able  among  the  ear- 
lier advocates,  Dercser,  in  his  Bearbeitung  des  Jesaias , 
iv.  1,  and  Greve  ( Vaticinia  Jesaice,  Amsterdam,  1810), 
All  these  works  have  at  present  only  a historical  value, 
because  they  have  been  surpassed  by  two  recent  mon- 
ographs. The  first  is  by  Jo.  Ulrich  Moller  (De  Au- 
thentia  Oracu/orum  Jesaicr,  chap,  xl-xlvi,  Copenhagen, 
1825).  Although  this  work  professedly  defends  only 


ISAIAII 


677 


ISAIAH 


the  latter  portion  of  the  book  of  Isaiah,  there  occur  in 
it  many  arguments  applicable  also  to  the  first  portion. 
The  standard  work  on  this  subject  is  that  of  Kleinert 
( Die  Aechtheit  des  Jesaias,  vol.  i,  Berlin,  1829).  It  is, 
however,  very  diffuse,  and  contains  too  many  hypoth- 
eses. The  comprehensive  work  of  Schleier  ( Wiirdiyung 
der  Einwiirfe  gegen  die  A Itestamentlichen  Weissagungen 
in  Jesaias,  chap,  xiii  and  xiv)  of  course  refers  more  es- 
pecially to  these  chapters,  but  indirectly  refers  also  to 
all  the  other  portions  whose  authenticity  has  been  at- 
tacked. Since  the  objections  against. the  various  parts 
of  Isaiah  are  all  of  the  same  character,  it  is  very  incon- 
sistent in  Keister,  in  his  work  Die  Prophet en  des  alten 
Testamentes,  to  defend,  in  page  102,  the  genuineness  of 
chaps,  xiii,  xiv,  and  xxi,  but  nevertheless,  in  pages  117 
and  297,  to  ascribe  chaps,  xl-lxvi  to  a pseudo  Isaiah. 

We  have  space  here  only  to  indicate  the  following 
reasons  as  establishing  the  integrity  of  the  whole  book, 
and  as  vindicating  the  authenticity  of  the  second  part: 

1.  Externally. — The  unanimous  .testimony  of  Jewish 
and  Christian  tradition—  Ecclus.  xlviii,  21,  25,  which 
manifestly  (in  the  words  wapucuXtat  to vg  mvOouvraij 
iv  Soon  and  vrraSft^e — tu  viroicpv<}>a  irpiv  ij  rrapayt- 
vk<r9ai  aura ) refers  to  this  second  part.  The  use  appa- 
rently made  of  the  second  part  by  Jeremiah  (x,  1-16 ; v, 
25;  xxv,  31 ; 1,  li),  Ezekiel  (xiii,  40, 4L),  and  Zephaniah 
(ii,  15 ; iii,  10).  The  decree  of  Cyrus  in  Ezra  i,  2-4, 
which  plainly  is  founded  upon  Isa.  xliv,  28;  xiv,  1, 13, 
accrediting  Josephus’s  statement  (Ant.  xi,  1,  2)  that  the 
Jews  showed  Cyrus  Isaiah’s  predictions  of  him.  The 
inspired  testimony  of  the  N.  T.,  which  often  (Matt,  iii, 
3,  and  the  parallel  passages;  Luke  iv,  17 ; Acts  viii,  28; 
Rom.  x,  16,  20)  quotes  with  specification  of  Isaiah’s  name 
prophecies  found  in  the  second  part. 

2.  Internally. — The  congruity  of  topic  and  sentiment 
in  the  last  twenty-seven  chapters  with  the  preceding 
parts  of  the  book.  The  oneness  of  diction  which  per- 
vades the  whole  book.  The  peculiar  elevation  and 
grandeur  of  style  which,  as  is  universally  acknowl- 
edged, distinguishes  the  whole  contents  of  the  second 
part  as  much  as  of  the  first,  and  which  assigns  their 
composition  to  the  golden  age  of  Hebrew  literature. 
The  absence  of  any  other  name  than  Isaiah’s  claiming 
the  authorship.  At  the  time  to  which  the  composition 
is  assigned,  a Zecliariah  or  a Malaehi  could  gain  a sep- 
arate name  and  book;  how  was  it  that  an  author  of 
such  transcendent  gifts  as  “ the  great  Unnamed”  who 
wrote  xl-lxvi  could  gain  none  ? The  claims  which  the 
writer  makes  to  the  foreknowledge  of  the  deliverance 
by  Cyrus,  which  claims,  on  the  opposing  view,  must  be 
regarded  as  a fraudulent  personation  of  an  earlier  writer. 
Lastly,  the  predictions  which  it  contains  of  the  character, 
sufferings,  death,  and  glorif cation  of  Jesus  Christ : a be- 
liever in  Christ  cannot  fail  to  regard  those  predictions 
as  affixing  to  this  second  part,  the  broad  seal  of  di- 
vine inspiration,  whereby  the  chief  ground  of  objection 
against  its  having  been  written  by  Isaiah  is  at  once  an- 
nihilated. 

For  a full  vindication  of  the  authenticity  of  Isaiah, 
besides  the  above  works,  see  professor  Stuart  On  the  Old 
Testam.  Canon,  p.  103  sq.,  and  I )r.  Davidson  in  the  new 
edit,  of  Horne’s  Introduction,  ii,  835  sq.,  in  which  latter, 
especially,  copious  references  arc  made  to  the  latest  lit- 
erature on  the  subject.  Other  writers  who  have  taken 
the  same  side  are  especially  Hengstcnberg,  in  his  Chris - 
tology,  vol.  ii ; Hiivernick,  Einleitimg,  vol.  iii  (1849); 
Stier,  in  his  Jesaias  nicht  Pseudo- Jesaias  (1850);  and 
Keil,  in  his  Einleitung  (1853),  in  which  last  the  reader 
will  find  a most  satisfactory  compendium  of  the  contro- 
versy, and  of  the  grounds  for  the  generally  received  view. 

V.  Origin,  Contents,  and  Style  of  the  Compilation. — No 
definite  account  respecting  the  method  pursued  in  col- 
lecting into  books  the  utterances  of  the  prophets  has 
been  handed  down  to  us.  Concerning  Isaiah  as  well  as 
the  rest,  these  accounts  are  wanting.  We  do  not  even 
know  whether  he  collected  his  prophecies  himself.  But 
we  have  no  decisive  argument  against  this  opinion. 


Those  critics  who  reject  the  authenticity  of  the  book 
are  compelled  to  invent  other  authors,  and,  of  course, 
different  theories  with  respect  to  compilers.  None  of 
these  have  proved  satisfactory.  (See  the  authorities 
above  referred  to.)  According  to  the  Talmudists,  the 
book  of  Isaiah  was  collected  by  the  men  of  Ilezekiah. 
But  this  assertion  rests  merely  upon  Prov.  xxv,  1,  where 
the  men  of  Ilezekiah  are  said  to  have  compiled  the 
Proverbs.  To  ns  it  seems  impossible  that  Isaiah  left  it 
to  others  to  collect  his  prophecies  into  a volume,  because 
we  know  that  he  was  the  author  of  historical  works, 
and  it  is  not  likely  that  a man  accustomed  to  literary 
occupation  would  have  left  to  others  to  do  what  he 
could  do  much  better  himself. 

Chaps,  i-v  contain  a series  of  rebukes,  threat enings, 
and  expostulations  with  the  nation,  especially  Jerusa- 
lem its  head,  on  account  of  tne  prevalent  sins,  and  par- 
ticularly idolatry.  Chap,  vi  describes  a theophany  and 
the  prophet’s  own  call,  in  the  last  year  of  Uzziah  (to 
which  tiie  preceding  chapters  may  also  be  assigned,  with 
the  exception  of  chap,  i,  2-31,  which  appears  to  belong 
to  the  first  of  Ahaz).  What  follows  next,  up  to  chap, 
x,  4,  belongs  to  the  reign  of  Ahaz,  and  consists  of  a sub- 
lime prediction  of  the  future  consolation  of  Israel,  in 
the  first  instance  by  the  deliverance  from  surrounding 
enemies  (especially  Damascus  and  Samaria),  and  event- 
ually by  the  Messiah,  who  is  prefigured  by  historical 
signs.  The  same  subject  is  treated  in  a similar  manner 
in  the  succeeding  chapters  (x-xii),  the  deliverance  from 
Assyria  being  there  the  historical  type;  this  is  the  first 
portion  appertaining  to  the  reign  of  Ilezekiah.  Then 
follows  a series  of  prophecies  against  foreign  nations,  in 
which  the  chronological  arrangement  has  been  departed 
from,  and,  instead  of  it,  an  arrangement  according  to 
contents  has  been  adopted.  In  the  days  of  Ilezekiah, 
the  nations  of  Western  Asia,  dwelling  on  the  banks  of 
the  Euphrates  and  Tigris,  more  and  more  resembled  a 
threatening  tempest.  The  prophetic  gift  of  Isaiah  was 
more  fully  unfolded  in  sight  of  the  Assyrian  invasion 
under  the  reign  of  Hezekiah.  Isaiah,  in  a series  of  vis- 
ions, describes  what  Assyria  would  do,  as  a chastising 
rod  in  the  hand  of  the  Lord,  and  what  the  successors  of 
the  Assyrians,  the  Chaldees,  would  perform,  according 
to  the  decree  of  God,  in  order  to  realize  divine  justice  on 
earth,  as  well  among  Israel  as  among  the  heathen.  The 
prophet  shows  that  mercy  is  hidden  behind  the  clouds 
of  wrath.  This  portion  comprises  chaps,  xiii-xxxv,  the 
several  prophecies  of  which  were  uttered  at  various 
times  prior  to  the  Assyrian  invasion,  although  isolated 
portions  appear  to  belong  to  previous  reigns  (c.  g.  chap, 
xvii  to  the  occasion  of  the  alliance  of  Ahaz  with  Tig- 
lath-pileser ; chap,  xiv,  28-82.  to  the  death  of  Ahaz). 
With  the  termination  of  this  war  terminated  also  the 
public  life  of  Isaiah,  who  added  a historical  section  in 
chaps,  xxxvi-xxxix,  in  order  to  facilitate  the  right  un- 
derstanding of  the  prophecies  uttered  by  him  during  the 
most  fertile  period  of  his  prophetic  ministry.  Then  fol- 
lows the  conclusion  of  his  work  on  earth  (chaps,  xl  to 
the  end),  composed  during  the  peaceful  residue  of  Hez- 
ekiah’s  reign,  and  containing  a closely  connected  series 
of  the  most  spiritual  disclosures  touching  the  future  his- 
tory of  the  nation  under  the  Messiah.  This  second  part, 
which  contains  his  prophetic  legacy,  is  addressed  to  the 
small  congregation  of  the  faithfid  strictly  so  called ; it 
is  analogous  to  the  last  speeches  of  Moses  in  the  fields 
of  Moah,  and  to  the  last  speeches  of  Christ  in  the  circle 
of  his  disciples,  related  by  John. 

The  proclamation  of  the  Messiah  is  the  inexhaustible 
source  of  consolation  among  the  prophets.  In  Isaiah 
this  consolation  is  so  clear  that  some  fathers  of  the 
Church  were  inclined  to  style  him  rather  evangelist  than 
prophet.  The  following  are  the  outlines  of  Messianic 
prophecies  in  the  book  of  Isaiah:  A scion  of  David, 
springing  from  bis  family,  after  it  has  fallen  into  a very 
low  estate,  but  being  also  of  divine  nature,  shall,  at  first 
in  lowliness,  but  as  a prophet  filled  with  the  spirit  of 
God,  proclaim  the  divine  doctrine,  develop  the  law  in 


678 


ISAIAH 


ISAIAH 

truth,  and  render  it  the  animating  principle  of  national  | 
life : he  shall,  as  high-priest,  by  his  vicarious  suffering  j 
and  his  death,  remove  the  guilt  of  his  nation,  and  that 
of  other  nations,  and  finally  rule  as  a mighty  king,  not 
onlv  over  the  covenant -people,  but  over  all  nations  of 
the  earth  who  will  subject  themselves  to  his  peaceful 
sceptre,  not  by  violent  compulsion,  but  induced  by  love 
and  gratitude.  He  will  make  both  the  moral  and  the  i 
physical  consequences  of  sin  to  cease;  the  whole  earth 
shall  be  tilled  with  the  knowledge  of  the  Lord,  and  all 
enmity,  hatred,  and  destruction  shall  be  removed  even, 
from  the  brute  creation.  This  is  the  survey  of  the  Mes- 
sianic preaching  by  Isaiah,  of  which  he  constantly  ren- 
ders prominent  those  portions  which  were  most  calcu- 
lated to  impress  the  people  under  the  then  existing  cir- 
cumstances. The  first  part  of  Isaiah  is  directed  to  the 
yliole  people,  consequently  the  glory  of  the  Messiah  is 
here  dwelt  upon.  The  fear  lest  the  kingdom  of  God  ] 
should  be  overwhelmed  by  the  power  of  heathen  na- 
tions is  removed  by  pointing  out  the  glorious  king  to  , 
come,  who  would  elevate  the  now  despised  and  appar- 
ently mean  kingdom  of  God  above  all  the  kingdoms  of 
this* world.  In  the  second  part,  which  is  more  particu- 
larly addressed  to  the  tfcXoy?/,  the  elect,  than  to  the  whole 
nation,  the  prophet  exhibits  the  Messiah  more  as  a di- 
vine teacher  and  higli-priest.  The  prophet  here  preach- 
es righteousness  through  the  blood  of  the  servant  of 
( iod,  who  will  support  the  weakness  of  sinners,  and  take 
upon  himself  their  sorrows. 

Isaiah  stands  pre-eminent  above  all  other  prophets, 
as  well  in  the  contents  and  spirit  of  his  predictions,  as 
also  in  their  form  and  style.  Simplicity,  clearness,  sub- 
limity, and  freshness,  are  the  never-failing  characters 
of  his  prophecies.  Even  Eichhorn  mentions,  among  the 
first  merits  of  Isaiah,  the  concinnity  of  his  expressions, 
the  beautiful  outline  of  his  images,  and  the  fine  execu- 
tion of  his  speeches.  In  reference  to  richness  of  im- 
agery he  stands  between  Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel.  Sym- 
bolic actions,  whkli  frequently  occur  in  Jeremiah  and 
Ezekiel,  seldom  occur  in  Isaiah.  The  same  is  the  case 
with  visions,  strictly  so  called,  of  which  there  is  only 
one,  namely,  that  in  chap,  vi,  and  even  it  is  distinguish- 
ed bv  its  simplicity  and  clearness  above  that  of  the  later 
prophets.  But  one  characteristic  of  Isaiah  is,  that  he 
likes  to  give  signs — that  is,  a fact  then  present,  or  near 
at  hand — as  a pledge  for  the  more  distant  futurity,  and 
that  lie  thus  supports  the  feebleness  of  man  (comp,  vii, 
2<l;  xxxvii.SO;  xxxviii.7  sq.).  The  instances  in  chaps, 
vii  and  xxxviii  show  how  much  he  "was  convinced  of 
his  vocation,  and  in  what  intimacy  he  lived  with  the 
Lord,  by  whose  assistance  alone  lie  could  effect  what 
he  offers  to  do  in  the  one  passage,  and  what  he  grants 
in  the  other.  The  spiritual  riches  of  the  prophet  are 
seen  in  the  variety  of  his  style,  which  always  befits  the 
subject.  When  he  rebukes  and  threatens  it  is  like  a 
storm,  and  when  lie  comforts  his  language  is  as  tender 
and  mild  as  (to  use  his  own  words)  that  of  a mother 
comforting  her  son.  With  regard  to  style,  Isaiah  is 
comprehensive,  and  the  other  prophets  divide  his  riches. 

Isaiah  enjoyed  an  authority  proportionate  to  his  gifts. 
Wc  learn  from  history  how  great  this  authority  was 
during  bis  life,  especially  under  the  reign  of  Hezekiah. 
Several  of  his  most  definite  prophecies  were  fulfilled 
while  lie  was  yet  alive ; for  instance,  the  overthrow  of 
the  kingdoms  of  Syria  and  Israel;  t lie  invasion  of  the 
Assyrians,  and  the  divine  deliverance  from  it ; the  pro- 
longation of  life  granted  to  Ilczekiali;  and  several  pre- 
dictions against  foreign  nations.  Isaiah  is  honorably 
mentioned  in  the  historical  hooks.  The  later  proph- 
ets, especially  Nahum,  Habakkuk,Zephaniah,  Jeremiah, 
Haggai,  Zechariah,  and  Malaolii,  clearly  prove  that  his 
book  was  diligently  read,  and  that  his  prophecies  were 
attentively  studied.  The  authority  of  the  prophet  great- 
ly increased  after  the  fulfilment  of  his  prophecies  by  the 
Babylonian  exile,  the  victories  of  Cyrus,  ami  the  deliver- 
ance of  the  covenant-people.  Even  Cvrns  (according  to 
the  account  in  Josephus,  A nt.  xl,  I,  I and  2)  was  induced 


to  set  the  Jews  at  liberty  by  the  prophecies  of  Isaiah 
concerning  himself.  Jesus  Sirach  (xlviii,  22-25)  bestows 
splendid  praise  upon  Isaiah,  and  both  Philo  and  Josephus 
speak  of  him  with  great  veneration.  He  attained  the 
highest  degree  of  authority  after  the  times  of  the  New 
Testament  had  proved  the  most  important  part  of  his 
prophecies,  namely,  the  Messianic,  to  be  divine.  Christ 
and  the  apostles  quote  no  prophecies  so  frequently  as 
those  of  Isaiah,  in  order  to  prove  that  he  who  had  ap- 
peared was  one  and  the  same  with  him  who  had  been 
promised.  The  fathers  of  the  Church  abound  in  praises 
of  Isaiah. — Ivitto ; Smith.  See  Messiah. 

VI.  The  following  are  express  commentaries  on  the 
whole  of  the  book  of  Isaiah,  the  most  important  being 
designated  by  an  asterisk  (*)  prefixed : Origen,  Frag- 
menta  (in  Opp.  iii,  104);  also  Ilomilice  (in  Jerome,  Opp. 
iv,  1097);  Eusebius,  Commentarii  (in  Montfaucon’s  Col- 
lectio  Novo') ; Ephrem  Svrus,  Emrratio  (from  the  Syr. 
in  Opp.  1,  ii.  535) ; Basil,  Enarrutio  (Gr.  in  his  Opp.  I,  ii, 
535;  tr.  in  Lat.,  Basle,  1518,  4to) ; Jerome,  Commentarii 
(in  Opp.  iv,  1);  also  Adbreviutio  ( ib . iv,  1131);  Chry- 
sostom, Interprctatio  [on  i-viiij  (Gr.  in  Opp.  vi,  1) ; Cy- 
ril, Commentarii  (Gr.  in.  Opp.  ii,  1 sq.)  ; Theodoret,  In- 
terpretation [in  Greek]  (in  Opp.  II,  i) ; Procopius,  Epit- 
ome (Gr.  and  Lat.,  Par.  1580,  fol.)  ; Kupertns,  In  Esaiam 
(in  Opp.  i,  429) ; Ilerveus , Commentarii  (in  Pez,  Thesaur. 
Ill,  i);  S.Jarclii  [i.  e.  “Kashi”],  Comment arivs  (from  the 
Heb.  edit.  Breithaupt,  Goth.  1713, 1714,3  vols.  4to);  D. 
Kimchi,  Commenturins  (from  the  Heb.  by  Malamineus, 
Florence,  1774, 4to);  Abrabanel,  — '“E  (ed.  L’Empereur, 
Lugd.  B.  1631,  8vo)  ; Aquinas,  Commentarii  (Lugd.  1531, 
8vo  ; also  in  Opp.  ii) ; Luther,  Enarrationes  (in  Opp.  iii, 
294);  Melancthon,A?v/w7«ewfM7»  (in  Opp.  iii, 398) ; CEco- 
lampadius,  Hypomnematon  (Basil.  1525,  1567,  4to) ; Zu- 
inglins,  Complanatio  (Tignr.  1529,  fol. ; also  in  Opp.  iii, 
163) ; Dietcrich,  A uslegung  (Norimb.  1 543, 4to) ; Calvin, 
Commentarii  (Gen.  1551,  1559,  1570,  1583,  1587,  1617, 
fol.;  in  French,  ib.  1552, 4to;  1572,  fol. ; in  English  by 
Colton,  Lond.  1609,  fol. ; by  Pringle,  Edinb.  1850, 4 vols. 
8vo) ; Day,  Exposition  (London,  1654,  fol.);  Mnsculus, 
Commentarius  (Basil.  1557,  1570,  1600,  1623,  fol.);  Bor- 
rhasius,  Commentarii  (Basil.  1561.  fol.) ; Draconis,  Com- 
mentarius (Lipsia?,  1563,  fol.)  ; Strigel,  Condones  (Lipsije, 
1563, 12mo) ; Forcrius,  Commentaria  (Venice,  1563,  fol. ; 
Antwerp,  1565, 8vo ; also  in  the  Critid  Sacri,  iv);  Sas- 
bouth,  Commentarius  (Argent.  1563,  8vo);  Mar  lor  at  us, 
Expositio  (Par.  1564;  Gen.  1610,  fol.) ; Pint  us,  Commen- 
taria (Lugd.  1561, 1567 ; Antw.  1567, 1572,  fol.) ; Gualthc- 
rus,  Ilomilice  (Tignr.  1567,  folio);  Bullinger,  Expositio 
(Tignr.  1567.  folio) ; Selneeker,  Erklar.  (Lpz.  1569, 4to) ; 
Castri,  Commentaria  (Salam.  1570,  folio);  De  Palacios, 
Diluddationes  (Salam.  1572, 3 vols.  fol.) ; Sclinepf,  Scho- 
lar (Tub.  1575, 1583,  fol.) ; Osorius,  Paraphrasis  (Bonon. 
1576, 4to;  Col.  Agr.  1579, 1584, 8vo);  Ursinus,  Commen- 
tarius ( in  Opp.  iii) ; Wigand,  A dnotationes  (Erford.  1581, 
8vo) ; Guide!],  Commentarius  (Penis.  1598-1600,  2 vols. 
4to) ; Mont  anus,  Commentarii  (Antw.  1599,  2 vols.  4to).; 
1).  Alvarez,  Commentarii  (Borne,  1599-1702,  2 vols.  fol.; 
Lugd.  1716,  fol.);  Arcularius,  Commentarius  (ed.  Ment- 
zer,  Frankfort,  1607 ; Lips.  1653,  8vo) ; Arama,  -"“‘X 
(Veil.  1608,  8vo;  also  in  Frankfurter’s  Rabbinic 
Bible);  Sancius,  Commentarius  (Lugd.  1615;  Antwerp 
and  Mogunt.  1616,  fol.) ; Hcshusius,  Commentarius  (Ilal. 
1617,  fol.);  Forster,  Commentarius  (Vitemb.  1620,  1664, 
1674, 1679, 4to) ; Oleastre,  Commentarii  (Par.  1622, 1656, 
fol.) ; a Lapide,  In  Esaiam  (Antw.  1622,  folio) ; G.  Alva- 
rez, Expositio  (Lugd.  1623,  fol.);  De  Arcones, Eludda- 
tio  (Lugd.  1642,2  vols.  folio) ; Di  Marino,  cbis*  ‘pjSP 
(Verona.  1652,  4to) ; Laisne,  Commentaire  (Paris,  1654, 
fol.);  Lanado,  tS  ">2  (Veil.  1657,  fol.);  Varenus,  Com- 
| mentarius  (Rost.  1673,  1708,  4to) ; Brentins,  Commenta- 
! rius  (in  Opp.  iv,  Tiib.  1675);  Jackson,  A nnotativns  (Lon- 
j don,  1682,  4to) ; S.  Schmid,  Commentarius  (ed.  Sandha- 
! gen,  Hamb.  1693, 1695, 1702, 1723, 4to);  Sibersma,  Com- 
i mentarius  (Amst.  1700, 4to);  Cocceius,  Commentarius  (in 


ISAUITES 


679 


ISENBIEIIL 


Opp.  ii,  Amst.  1701);  Dorsche,  Comment arius  (ed.Fecht, 
llamb.  1700, 4 to)  ; Hellenbroek, Erklaariny  (Rotterdam, 
1704,  4 vols.  4to) ; Schmuck,  Prcclectiones  (edit.  Mich, 
Dresd.  1708, 4to) ; White,  Commentary  (Loud.  1701),  4to) ; 
Ivor  turn,  U htersuchuny  (Lpz.  1709, 4to) ; *Vitringa,  Com- 
mentarius , Louv.  1714-20,  1724,2  vols.  fol. ; in  German, 
Herb.  1715-22,  2 vols.  fol.;  the  last  abridged  by  Bu- 
sching,  Hal.  1749,  4to) ; Petersen,  Erkldr.  (Frckft.  1719, 

4 to) ; Leigh,  Comment ar  (Brunsw.  1725-34,  6 vols.  4 to) ; 
Iloiieisel,  Observations  (Gedan.  1729,  8vo);  Le  Clerc, 
Commentarius  (an  abstract, Amsterdam,  1731, fol.);  Wo- 
ken, Erkldr.  (Lpz.  1732,  8vo);  Dugnet,  Explication  (in 
French,  Paris,  1734, 5 vols.  12mo) ; Bambach,  Erkldruny 
(Ziir.  1741,  4to) ; Itcichel,  Erlaut.  (Lpz.  and  Gorl.  1755— 
59,  1G  pts.  8vo) ; Vogel,  Umschreibuny  (Hal.  1771, 8vo); 
Struensee,  Uebers.  (Halb.  1773,  8vo);  Crusius,  Ilypom- 
nemata  (Lips.  1773,  8vo) ; *Lowth,  Commentary  (Loud. 
1774,  1778,  4to;  and  frequently  since  in  many  forms; 
finally  in  connection  with  the  notes  of  Bp.  Patrick  and 
others,  in  4 vols.8vo,  Lond.  and  Philadelphia) ; Walther, 
Anmerk.  (Hal.  1774,  4to) ; *Doderlein,  Note;  (Altd.  1775, 
1780, 1783,  8vo)  ; Holden,  Paraphrase  (Chelmsf.  177G,  2 
vols.  8vo) ; Rambach,  Anmerk.  [to  tr.  of  Matt.  Henry’s] 
(Lpz.  1777,  8vo);  Sponscl,  .1  bhandluny  (Xurenb.  1779— 

80.2  vols.4to) ; Koppe,  A nmerk.  [to  Lowth]  (Lpz.  1779— 
81,4  vols.  8vo);  Moldenhaucr,  .1  nmerk.  (Quedlinb.  1780, 
4to) ; Weise,  Redan  (Halle,  1780, 8vo) ; *Sciler,  Erlaut. 
(Erl.  1783, 8vo) ; Cube,  Anmerk.  (Berlin,  1785-G,  2 vols. 
8vo);  Rieger,  Scholien  (Memming.  1788, 8vo)  ; Henssler, 
Anmerk.  (llamb.  and  Kiel,  1788,  8vo);  Berthier,  Notes 
[French]  (Paris,  1789,  5 vols.  12mo);  Kocher,  Y indicia. 
(Tubing.  1790,  8vo);  Dodson,  Notes  (Lond.  1790,  8 vo)  ; 
Kriigelius,  Bearbeituny  (Brem.  1790,  8vo);  Macculloch, 
Lectures  (Lond.  1791-1805,  4 vols.  8vo);  Panins,  Claris 
(Jena,  1793, 8vo) ; Fraser,  Commentary  (Edinburgh,  1800, 
8vo);  Bp.  Stock,  Translation  (Bath,  1805, 4to) ; Van  der 
Palm,  Anmerk.  [Dutch]  (Amst.  1805,  2 vols.  8vo)  ; Ot- 
tensosser,  (Fiirth,  1807, 8vo)  ; Dereser,  Erkldruny 
(Frckft.  a.  M.  1808,  8vo);  *Gesenius,  Commentar  (Lpz. 
1821-9,3  vols.  8vo);  Horsley,  Notes  (in  Biblical  Criti- 
cism, i,  229) ; Moller,  A nmerk.  [Danish]  (Copenli.  1822, 
8vo) ; De  Liere,  Traduction  (Paris,  1823,  8vo) ; Knos, 
Enodatio  (Upsal.  1824, 8vo);  Jones,  Translation  (Oxford, 
1830,  8vo;  1842, 12mo);  Jenour,  Notes  (London,  1830,2 
vols.8vo);  Hendewerk,  Erkldr.  (Konigsberg,  1830-44,  2 
vols.8vo)  ; Mailer,  Erkldr.  (Brem.  1831, 8vo,  pt.  i) ; Ilit- 
zig,  .1  usleyuny  (lleidelb.  1833, 8vo) ; Maurer,  Commenta- 
rius (Lpz.  1836,  8vo) ; Barnes,  Notes  (Bust.  1840,  3 vols. 
8vo;  abridged,  N.  Y.  1848,2  vols.  12mo);  *IIcnderson, 
Commentary  (London,  1840,  1857,  8vo);  Govett,  Notes 
(Lond.  1841, 8vo);  *Umbreit,  Commentar  (llamb.  1841- 

42.2  vols. 8vo);  Ileinemann,  d^S'3  snpp  (Bcrl.1842, 
8vo) ; *Knobel,  Erkldruny  (Lpz.  1843.  8vo) ; Drcschler, 
Erkldr.  (Stuttg.  1845-9,  3 vols.  8vo) ; * Alexander,  Com- 
mentary (X.  Y.  184G-7, 1805,2  vols.  8vo;  Glasgow.  1848, 
8vo;  abridged,  N.  York,  1851, 2 vols.  12mo) ; Stier,  Nicht 
Pseudo- Jesaias  (Barmen,  1850,  2 pts.  8vo) ; Smithson, 
Translation  (Lond.  l8G0,8vo);  Keith,  Commentary  (Lon- 
don, 1850, 8vo) ; Meier,  Erkldr.  (pt.  i,  Pforzh.  1850, 8vo)  ; 
Whish,  Paraphrase  (Lond.  1855,  8vo) ; Williams,  Com- 
mentary (Lond.  1857, 8vo) ; Diedrich,  Erkldr.  (Lpz.  1859, 
8vo) ; Renner,  A usleyuny  (Stnttg.  1865,  8vo);  Lnzatto, 
Commenti  [in  Ileb.]  (Padova,  1865-7,  2 vols.  8vo) ; Sec- 
ond, Commentaire  (Genev.  1866,  8vo)  ; *DeIitzsch,  Com- 
mentar (in  Kcil  and  Delitzsch’s  series,  Lpz.  18GG;  tr.  in 
Clarke’s  Library,  Edinb.  1867,2  vols.8vo);  Cheyne,  Notes 
(Lond.  1868, 8vo);  Ewald , Commentary  (chaps,  i-xxxiii, 
transl.  from  the  Germ,  by  Glover,  London,  1869, 12mo) ; 
Neteler,  Grundlaye  (Munst.  1869, 8vo) ; Birks,  Commen- 
tary (Lond.  1871, 8vo).  See  Prophet. 

Isauites.  See  Obadiaii  (Abu-Isa). 

Is'cah  (Heb.  Yiskah',  Upp*1,  spy;  Sept.  ’Ietrya),  the 
daughter  of  Haran,  and  sister  of  Milcah  and  Lot  (Gen. 
xi,  29 ; comp.  3 1).  Jewish  tradition,  as  in  Josephus  (.1  nt. 
i,  6,  5),  Jerome  ( Queest . in  Genesim ),  and  the  Targum 
Pseudo- Jonathan,  identifies  her  with  Sarah  (q.  v.).  i 


Iscar'iot  (latcapuoTrjg,  probably  from  Heb.  IL'-'N 
niMp,  man  of  Kcrioth),  a surname  of  Judas  the  trai- 
tor, to  distinguish  him  from  others  of  the  same  name 
(Matt,  x,  4,  and  often).  See  Kekiotii;  Judas. 

Is'dael  (’lor«//\,Vulg.  GaddaheV),  the  name  of  one 
of  the  heads  of  families  of  “ Solomon’s  servants”  that  re- 
turned from  the  captivity  (1  Esd.  v,  33);  evidently  the 
GtDDEL  (q.  v.)  of  the  Ileb.  texts  (Ezra  ii,  56;  Neb.  vii, 
58). 

Iselin,  Isaac,  a German  philosopher  and  philan- 
thropist, was  born  at  Brsle  March  27,  1728.  11c  was 

educated  at  the  university  for  the  law  profession,  but 
much  of  his  time  was  devoted  to  the  study  of  philoso- 
phy, and  he  deserves  our  notice  as  the  author  of  a Ge- 
schichte  d.  Menschheit  (Frkf.  and  Lpz.  1764,  2 vols.  8vo, 
and  often),  and  Traiime  tines  Menschenfreuncles  (Zurich, 
1758, 8vo,  and  often).  He  was  a very  conspicuous  help- 
er of  Basedow  (q.  v.)  in  the  philosophic  efforts  of  the 
latter,  founded  a “society  for  the  public  good”  at  Basle, 
aided  in  founding  the  Helvetic  Society  (1761),  in  which 
Ilirzel,  Sarasin,  Pfeffel,  and  others  took  part,  and  was, 
in  short,  one  of  the  most  prominent  leaders  in  the  hu- 
manitarianism  or  philanthropism  which  flourished  in 
the  second  half  of  last  century  in  Germany,  and  more 
especially  in  Switzerland.  Isaac  Iselin  died  June  15, 
1782.  See  Hurst’s  Hagenbach,  Church  llist.  of  the  1 8th 
and  19?/i  Cent,  i,  sect,  xiv ; professor  Vischer,  Proyramm 
(Basle,  1841,  4to).  (J.I1.W.) 

Iselin,  James  Christopher,  a Swiss  Protestant 
theologian  and  philologist,  was  born  at  Basle  June  12, 
1681.  After  he  had  acquired  a good  knowledge  of  the 
classics,  and  especially  of  Greek,  he  applied  himself  to 
the  study  of  Hebrew  and  theology.  He  was  ordained 
in  1701,  and  in  1705  was  appointed  professor  of  history 
and  rhetoric  at  Marburg.  In  1707  he  returned  to  Basle, 
and  became  successively  professor  of  history,  of  antiqui- 
ties, and  finally  (1711)  of  theology,  in  the  university  of 
that  place.  In  1716  he  visited  France  (he  had  previously 
made  a journey  there  in  161)8),  and  was  warmly  received 
at  Paris  by  chancellor  D’Agnessean.  In  1717  he  was 
elected  member  of  the  Academie  des  Inscriptions  et 
Belles  Let tres.  Iselin  died  April  14, 1737.  He  had  been 
in  relation  with  some  of  the  most  eminent  men  of  his 
day,  such  as  cardinal  Passione'i,  the  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury, Wake,  the  marquis  Beretti  Laudi,  ambassador 
of  Spain,  etc.  He  wrote  In  Sententiam  Jac.  Benj.  Bos- 
suet  de  Babylone  bestiisque  et  meretrice  Apocalypseos 
(Basle,  1701,  4to) : — Specimen  observationum  atque  con- 
jecturarum  ad  orientalem  philoloyiam  et  criticen  perti- 
nentium  (Basle,  1704,  4to) : — I)e  Mayorum  in  Persia 
Dominatione  (Marb.  1707, 4to)  : — Dissertatio  qua  mnndi 
(eternitas  aryumentis  historicis  confutatur  (1709, 4to): — 
De  Canone  Novi  Testamenti  (in  Miscellanea  Groninya- 
na,  vol.  iii),  against  Dodwell : etc.  He  also  contributed 
a number  of  articles  to  the  Mercure  Suisse  (1734-5),  etc. 
See  Beck, T7h/  Iselini  ( Tempe  Helvetica,  vol.  iii);  Eloye 
iC  Iselin  ( / list,  de  TA  cad.  des  Inscriptions,  vol.  vi) ; Scliel- 
horn,  Lebensbeselir.  Iselin's  (.I  eta  Hist.  Eccles.  vol.  ii ; iii, 
1156;  iv,  1160);  Moreri,  Diet. ; Chauffepie,  Diet. ; J.  R. 
Iselin,  Laudatio  Iselini.— lloefer,  Nouv.  Bioyr.  Generate, 
xxvi,  50  (J.  X.  P.) 

Isenbiehl,  Joiiaxn  Lauren/.,  a German  Roman 
Catholic  theologian,  was  horn  on  the  Eiclisfeld  in  1744. 
Of  his  early  history  we  know  nothing,  but  in  1773  we 
find  him  appointed  to  the  position  of  professor  of  the 
Oriental  languages  and  exegetical  literature  at  Mentz. 
As  his  first  theme  before  the  students  over  whom  he 
had  been  chosen  to  preside,  he  selected  the  interpreta- 
tion of  Isa.  vii,  14.  He  advanced  the  opinion  that  it 
was  erroneous  to  attribute  any  connection  to  this  pas- 
sage with  Matt,  i,  23,  and  asserted  that  it  did  not  at 
all  refer  to  Immanuel  the  Christ,  or  to  Mary,  the  moth- 
er of  Christ ; that  Matthew  only  alluded  to  this  passage 
because  of  its  similarity  with  the  circumstances  of  the 
1 birth  of  Christ.  Of  course  he  was  at  once  deposed 


680 


ISH-BOSHETH 


ISHAM 


from  lus  position,  and.  as  is  customary  among  Roman 
Catholics,  deprived  of  his  personal  liberty  on  account  ot 
propagating  and  cherishing  heretical  opinions.  lie  was 
returned  to  the  theological  seminary  for  further  instruc- 
tion, and  released  two  years  after.  In  1778,  however,  he 
appeared  before  the  public,  defending  his  original  opin- 
ion under  the  title  of  Xeuer  Versuch  iiber  d.  WAsscyun- 
ycn  v . Immanuel  (Coblenz).  He  had  meanwhile  been 
reappointed  to  the  professional  dignity,  and  his  persist- 
enev  in  defending  his  peculiar  interpretations  again  de- 
prived him  of  his  position,  and  he  was  onee  more  im- 
prisoned and  put  on  trial.  His  book  was  forbidden  to 
all  good  Roman  Catholics  by  all  archbishops  and  bish- 
ops, and  in  1779  a bull  was  issued  against  it  by  the  pope. 
In  the  interim  he  had  made  his  escape  from  prison,  but, 
finding  the  ecclesiastical  authorities  all  opposed  to  him, 
he  recalled  his  former  opinion,  and  was  honored  with 
ecclesiastical  dignity  (1780).  In  1803  his  income  ivas 
reduced  to  a small  pension,  and  he  lived  in  want  until 
his  death  in  1818.  Isenbiehl  also  wrote  on  the  diacrit- 
ical points  under  the  title  of  Corpus  decisiomm  dogmat- 
icarum.  See  Walch,  Neueste  Relig.  Geschichte,  viii,  9 sq. ; 
Sehrockh,  Kirchengesch.  s.  d.  Ref.  vii,  203  sq. ; Ilenke, 
Kirchengesch.  vii,  199  sq. ; Fuhrmann,  Ilandw.  d.  Kir- 
chengesch. ii,  507.  (J.  II.  \V.) 

Isham,  Chester,  a Congregational  minister,  was 
born  in  1798,  and,  after  a course  of  preparatory  study  at 
the  Latin  Grammar  Sehool  in  Hartford,  Conn.,  entered 
Yale  College,  where  he  graduated  in  1820.  Shortly  af- 
terwards he  went  to  Andover  Seminary  to  prepare  for 
the  ministry,  upon  which  he  had  decided  soon  after 
his  conversion  while  at  Yale  College.  In  1824,  on  the 
completion  of  his  theological  course  of  study,  he  accept- 
ed a call  to  a newly-formed  church  at  Taunton,  where 
he  had  been  preaching  during  the  latter  part  of  the  last 
year  spent  at  Andover.  But  the  great  exertions  which 
the  work  demanded  of  him’  were  too  severe  upon  his 
constitution,  and  the  symptoms  of  consumption  appear- 
ing shortly  after,  he  -went  South  in  the  hope  of  recover- 
ing his  health.  He  continued  failing,  however,  and  re- 
turned to  Boston  April  19tli,  to  die  among  his  friends. 
Dr.  Leonard  Bacon,  who  was  a classmate  of  Chester  Ish- 
am at  Yale,  speaks  very  highly  of  his  attainments  and 
religious  bearing,  m Sprague’s  Annals  of  the  American 
Pulpit,  ii,  704  sq. 

Ishaneki  (elect  hand),  a Russian  sect  which  arose 
in  I GOO,  under  the  fear  that  the  printed  Church  books 
were  tainted  with  error,  since  they  differed  from  the  old 
MS.  copies  which  had  been  so  long  in  use.  They  stout- 
ly adhere  to  the  letter  of  Scripture,  deny  different  orders 
among  the  clergy,  and  any  gradation  of  rank  among 
the  people,  but  under  Alexander  I obtained  toleration, 
though  they  had  previously  been  exposed  to  constant 
persecution.  — Kadie,  Eccles.  Diet.  s.  v.  See  also  Eek- 
ardt,  Modem  Russia,  s.  v. 

Ish'bah  (Hebrew'  Yishbaeh,'  praiser ; Sept. 

'lean  fid),  a descendant  of  Judah,  and  founder  (“  father”) 
of  I'.shtemoa  (q.  v.) ; he  probably  was  a son  ofMered 
bv  his  wife  Ilodiali  (1  Cliron.  iv,  17).  B.C.  post  1012. 
See  Miked.  He  is  perhaps  the  same  as  Ism  (q.  v.)  in 
verse  20,  and  apparently  identical  with  the  Naha.u  (q. 
v.)  of  ver.  19. 

Ish:bak  (Ileb.  Yishbak',  leaner;  Sept.  ’Ita- 

fiwK,  ']  ter  fide),  one  of  the  sons  of  Abraham  by  Keturah 
(Gen.  xxv,  2 ; 1 ( ’hron.  i,  32).  B.C.  post  2024.  We  are 
told  that  Abraham  “gave  gifts”  to  the  sons  of  Keturah, 
“ and  sent  them  away  from  Isaac  his  son  eastward,  unto 
the  east  country”  (Gen.  xxv,  1-0).  They  settled  in  the 
region  east  of  the  Arabali,  in  and  near  Mount  Seir,  and 
southward  in  the  peninsula  of  Sinai  (Gen.  xxxvii,  28, 
30;  Exod.  iii,  1 ; Numb,  xxxi,  9, 10).  See  Keturah. 

The  settlements  of  this  people  are  very  obscure,  and 
Pooh*  (in  Smith’s  Diet,  of  the  Bible,  s.  v.)  suggests  as 
possible  that  they  may  be  recovered  in  the  name  of  the 
valley  called  Sabak,  or,  as  it  is  also  called,  “ Sibdk,  in  the 


Dahna”  ( Mardsul , s.  v.).  The  Heb.  root  precisely  cor- 
responds to  the  Arabic  ( sabaq ) in  etymology  and  signi- 
fication. The  Dahna,  in  which  is  situate  Sabak,  is  a 
fertile  and  extensive  tract  belonging  to  the  Beni-Te- 
mim,  in  Nejd,  or  the  highland  of  Arabia,  on  the  north- 
east of  it,  and  the  borders  of  the  great  desert,  reaching 
from  the  rugged  tract  (“  liazn”)  of  Yensu’ah  to  the  sands 
of  Yebrin.  It  contains  much  pasturage,  with  compara- 
tively fewr  wells,  and  is  greatly  frequented  b}-  the  Arabs 
when  the  vegetation  is  plentiful  ( Mushtarak  and  Ma- 
rusid,  s.  v.).  There  is,  how  ever,  another  Dalina,  nearer 
to  the  Euphrates  (ib.),  and  some  confusion  may  exist 
regarding  the  true  position  of  Sabak;  but  either  Dalina 
is  suitable  for  the  settlements  of  Ishbak.  The  first-men- 
tioned Dahna  lies  in  a favorable  portion  of  the  widely- 
stretching  country  known  to  have  been  peopled  by  the 
Keturahites.  They  extended  from  the  borders  of  Pal- 
estine even  to  the  Persian  Gulf,  and  traces  of  their  set- 
tlements must  be  looked  for  all  along  the  edge  of  the 
Arabian  peninsula,  where  the  desert  merges  into  the 
cultivable  land,  or  (itself  a rocky  undulating  plateau) 
rises  to  the  wild,  mountainous  country  of  Nejd.  Ishbak 
seems  from  his  name  to  have  preceded  or  gone  before 
his  brethren : the  place  suggested  for  his  dwelling  is  far 
away  towards  the  Persian  Gulf,  and  penetrates  also  into 
the  peninsula.  See  Arabia.  There  are  many  places, 
however,  of  an  almost  similar  derivation  (root  shabak), 
as  Shebek,  Shibdk,  and  Esh-Shdbak ; the  last  of  winch 
has  especially  been  supposed  (as  by  Schwarz,  Palest,  p. 
215;  Bunsen,  Bibelicerk,  I,  ii,  53)  to  preserve  a trace  of 
Ishbak.  It  is  a fortress  in  Arabia  Petra?a,  and  is  near 
the  well-known  fortress  of  the  Crusaders’  times  called 
El-Karak.  This  great  castle  of  Shobek  “stands  on  the 
top  of  the  mountain  range  which  bounds  the  valley  of 
Arabali  on  the  east,  and  about  twelve  miles  north  of  Pe- 
tra, on  the  crest  of  a peak  commanding  a wide  view. 
It  was  built  by  Baldwin,  king  of  Jerusalem,  in  A.D.  1115, 
on  the  site  of  a much  more  ancient  fortress  and  city, 
and  it  was  one  of  the  chief  strongholds  of  the  Crusaders. 
The  name  they  gave  it  was  Mans  Regalis;  but  by  the 
Arabs,  both  before  and  since,  it  has  been  uniformly  call- 
ed Shobek.  It  was  finally  taken  from  the  Franks  by 
Saladin  in  A.D.  1 188  ( Gesta  Dei  Per  Francos,  p.  420, 
011,  812;  Boliadin,  Vita  Saladini,  p.  38,  54,  and  Index 
Gcographicus,  s.  v.  Sjanbaehum).  The  castle  is  still  in 
tolerable  preservation,  and  a few  families  of  Arabs  find 
within  its  walls  a secure  asylum  for  themselves  and  their 
flocks.  It  contains  an  old  church,  with  a Latin  inscrip- 
tion of  the  crusading  age  over  its  door  (Burekhardt, 
Travels  in  Syiia,  p.  410;  Hand-book  for  Syr.  and  Pal. 
p.  58;  see  Forster.  Geogr.  of  Arabia,  i,  352;  Robinson, 
Bib.  Res.  ii,  104)”  (Kitto).  See  Idoi.ea. 

Ish'bi-be'nob  (Heb.  Yislibi’-Benob', 
my  seat  is  at  Xob,  as  in  the  margin,  for  which  the  text 
has  Yishbo'-Benob',  his  seat  is  at  Xob;  Sept. 

Atafii  nwo  Nw/3,Vnlg.  Jeshi-benob),  one  of  the  Repha- 
im,  a gigantic  warrior  who  bore  a spear  of  800  shekels’ 
weight,  and  came  near  slaying  David  m a personal  ren- 
counter, but  was  slain  by  Abishai  (2  Sam.  xxi,  1G).  B.C. 
eir.  1018.  See  Giant. 

Ish-bo'shetll  [many  Ish'-boshethfi  (Ileb.  Ish-bor- 
slieth,  r man  of  shame , i.  e.  bashful,  other- 

wise disgraceful;  Sept.  ‘lofidoeS  v.  r.  'lefiooSe,  Joseph. 
‘ItfiorrSoc,  Ynlg.  Jsboseth),  the  youngest  of  Saul’s  four 
sons,  and  his  legitimate  successor,  being  the  only  one 
who  survived  him  (2  Sam.  ii— iv).  His  name  appears 
(1  Cliron.  viii,  3S;  ix,  39)  to  have  been  originally  Esh- 
baal,  “ the  man  of  Baal.”  Whether  this  in- 

dicates that  Baal  was  used  as  equivalent  to  Jelioi'ah, 
or  that  the  reverence  for  Baal  still  lingered  m Israelitish 
families,  is  uncertain;  but  it  can  hardly  be  doubted  that 
the  name  (Ish-bosheth,  “ the  man  of  shame")  by  which 
he  is  commonly  known  must  have  been  substituted  for 
the  original  word,  with  a view  of  removing  the  scandal- 
ous sound  of  Baal  from  the  name  of  an  Israelitish  king 


ISII-BOSHETII 


681 


ISII-BOSIIETII 


(see  Ewald,  Isr.  Gesck.  ii,  383),  and  superseding  it  by 
the  contemptuous  word  (Boslieth  — “shame”)  which 
was  sometimes  used  as  its  equivalent  in  later  times  (Jer. 
iii,  24;  xi,  13 ; IIos.  ix,  10).  A similar  process  appears 
in  the  alteration  of  Jerubbaal  (.Judg.viii,35)  into  Jerub- 
beslieth  (2  Sam.  xi,  21)  ; Meri-baal  (2  Sam.  iv,  4)  into 
Mephibosheth  (1  Chron.  viii,34;  ix,40).  The  last  three 
cases  all  occur  in  Saul’s  family.  See  Saul.  lie  is 
thought  by  some  to  be  the  same  with  Isirur  1 

xiv,  49),  these  two  names  having  considerable  resem- 
blance ; but  this  is  forbidden  by  1 Sam.  xxxi,  2,  comp, 
with  1 Chron.  viii,  33.  See  Aiunadab.  He  appears 
to  have  been  forty  years  of  age  at  the  time  of  the  battle 
of  Gilboa  (B.C.  1053),  in  which  he  was  not  himself  pres- 
ent, but  in  which  his  father  and  three  older  brothers 
perished;  and  therefore,  according  to  the  law  of  Orien- 
tal, though  not  of  European  succession,  he  ascended  the 
throne,  as  the  oldest  of  the  royal  family,  rather  than 
Mephibosheth,  son  of  his  elder  brother  Jonathan,  who 
was  a child  of  five  years  old.  Too  feeble  of  himself  to 
seize  the  sceptre  which  had  just  fallen  from  the  hands 
of  Saul,  he  was  immediately  taken  under  the  care  of 
Abner,  his  powerful  kinsman,  who  brought  him  to  the 
ancient  sanctuary  of  Mahanaim,  on  the  east  of  the  Jor- 
dan, be)Tond  the  reach  of  the  victorious  Philistines,  and 
he  was  there  recognised  as  king  by  ten  of  the  twelve 
tribes  (2  Sam.  ii,  8,  9).  There  was  a momentary  doubt 
even  in  those  remote  tribes  whether  they  should  not 
close  with  the  offer  of  David  to  be  their  king  (2  Sam. 
ii,  7 ; iii,  17).  But  this  was  overruled  in  favor  of  Ish- 
bosheth  by  Abner  (2  Sam.  iii,  17),  who  then  for  five 
years  slowly  but  effectually  restored  the  dominion  of 
the  house  of  Saul  over  the  trans-Jordanie  territory,  the 
plain  of  Esdraelon,  the  central  mountains  of  Ephraim, 
the  frontier  tribe  of  Benjamin,  and  eventually  “over  all 
Israel”  (except  the  tribe  of  Judah,  2 Sam.  iii,  9).  In  2 
Sam.  ii,  10  Ish-bosheth  is  said  to  have  reigned  two 
years,  which  some  understand  as  the  whole  amount  of 
his  reign.  As  David  reigned  seven  and  a half  years 
over  Judah  before  he  became  king  of  all  Israel  upon  the 
death  of  Ish-bosheth.  it  is  conceived  by  the  Jewish 
chronologer  (Setter  Olum  Rabbit,  p.  37),  as  well  as  by 
Kimchi  and  others,  that  there  was  a vacancy  of  five 
years  in  the  throne  of  Israel.  It  is  not,  however,  agreed 
by  those  who  entertain  this  opinion  whether  this  va-  I 
cancy  took  place  before  or  after  the  reign  of  Ish-bo-  ' 
sheth.  Some  think  it  was  before,  it  being  then  a mat-  1 
ter  of  dispute  whether  he  or  Mephibosheth,  the  son  of 
Jonathan,  should  be  made  king;  but  others  hold  that 
after  his  death  five  years  elapsed  before  David  was  gen- 
erally recognised  as  king  of  all  Israel.  If  the  reign  of 
Ish-bosheth  be  limited  to  two  years,  the  latter  is  doubt- 
less the  best  way  of  accounting  for  the  other  five,  since 
no  ground  of  delay  in  the  succession  of  Ish-bosheth  is 
suggested  in  Scripture  itself;  for  the  claim  of  Mephibo- 
sheth, the  son  of  Jonathan,  which  some  have  produced, 
being  that  of  a lame  boy  five  years  old,  whose  father 
never  reigned,  against  a king’s  son  forty  years  of  age, 
would  have  been  deemed  of  little  weight  in  Israel.  Be- 
sides, our  notions  of  Abner  do  not  allow  us  to  suppose 
that  under  him  the  question  of  the  succession  could 
have  remained  five  years  in  abeyance.  But  it  is  the 
more  usual,  and  perhaps  the  better  course,  to  settle  this 
question  by  supposing  that  the  reigns  of  David  over 
Judah,  and  of  Ish-bosheth  over  Israel,  were  nearly  con- 
temporaneous, namely,  about  seven  years  each ; and 
that  the  two  years  named  are  only  the  first  of  this  pe- 
riod, being  mentioned  as  those  from  which  to  date  the 
commencement  of  the  ensuing  events  — namely,  the 
wars  between  the  house  of  Saul  and  that  of  David. 
This  appears  to  be  the  view  taken  by  Josephus  (.Inf. 
vii,  1,  3 ; comp.  2, 1).  Ish-bosheth  thus  reigned  seven, 
or,  as  some  will  have  it,  two  years — if'  a power  so  un- 
certain as  his  can  be  called  a reign.  Even  the  sem- 
blance of  authority  which  he  possessed  he  owed  to  the 
will  and  influence  of  Abner,  who  kept  the  real  control 
of  affairs  in  his  own  hands.  The  wars  and  negotia- 


tions with  David  were  entirely  carried  on  by  Abner  (2 
Sam.  ii,  II;  iii,  (5,  12).  After  various  skirmishes  be- 
tween the  forces  of  the  rival  kings,  a pitched  battle  was 
fought,  in  which  the  army  of  David  under  Joab  was 
completely  victorious.  After  this  the  interest  of  David 
continually  waxed  stronger,  while  that  of  Ish-bosheth 
declined  (2  Sam.  iii,  1).  At.  length  Ish-bosheth  accused 
Abner  (whether  rightly  or  wrongly  does  not  appear)  of 
an  attempt  on  his  father’s  concubine,  Rizpah,  which, 
according  to  Oriental  usage,  amounted  to  treason  (2 
Sam.  iii,  7 ; comp.  1 Kings  ii,  13 ; 2 Sam.  xvi,  21 ; xx, 
3).  Although  accustomed  to  tremble  before  Abner, 
even  Ish-boshcth’s  temper  was  roused  to  resentment  by 
the  discovery  that  Abner  had  thus  invaded  the  harem 
of  his  late  father  Saul,  which  was  in  a peculiar  manner 
sacred  under  his  care  as  a son  and  a king.  By  this  act 
Abner  exposed  the  king  to  public  contempt,  if  it  did 
not  indeed  leave  himself  open  to  the  suspicion  of  intend- 
ing to  advance  a claim  to  the  crown  on  his  own  behalf. 
Abner  resented  this  suspicion  in  a burst  of  passion, 
which  vented  itself  in  a solemn  vow  to  transfer  the 
kingdom  from  the  house  of  Saul  to  the  house  of  David, 
a purpose  which  from  this  time  he  appears  steadily  to 
have  kept  in  view.  Ish-bosheth  was  too  much  cowed 
to  answer;  and  when,  shortly  afterwards,  through  Ab- 
ner’s negotiation,  David  demanded  the  restoration  of 
his  former  wife,  Michal,  he  at  once  tore  his  sister  from 
her  reluctant  husband,  and  committed  her  to  Abner’s 
charge  (2  Sam.  iii,  14,  15).  It  is,  perhaps,  right  to  at- 
tribute this  act  to  his  weakness;  although,  as  David 
allows  that  he  was  a righteous  man  (2  Sam.  iv,  10),  it 
may  have  been  owing  to  his  sense  of  justice.  This 
trust  seems  to  have  given  Abner  a convenient  opportu- 
nity to  enter  into  negotiations  with  David;  but  in  the 
midst  of  them  he  himself  fell  a victim  to  the  resentment 
of  Joab  for  the  death  of  Abishai.  The  death  of  Abner 
deprived  the  house  of  Saul  of  their  last  remaining  sup- 
port. See  Abnkk.  When  Ish-bosheth  heard  of  it,  “his 
hands  were  feeble,  and  all  the  Israelites  were  troubled” 
(2  Sam.  iv,  1).  In  this  extremity  of  weakness  he  fell  a 
victim,  probably,  to  a revenge  for  a crime  of  his  father. 
The  guard  of  ish-bosheth,  as  of  Saul,  was  taken  from 
their  own  royal  tribe  of  Benjamin  (l  Chron.  xii,  29). 
But  among  the  sons  of  Benjamin  were  reckoned  the  de- 
scendants of  the  old  Canaanitish  inhabitants  of  Beeroth, 
one  of  the  cities  in  league  with  Gibeon  (2  Sam.  iv,  2,  3). 
Two  of  those  Beerothites,  Baana  and  Rechab,  in  re- 
membrance, it  has  been  conjectured,  of  Saul’s  slaughter 
of  their  kinsmen  the  Gibeonites,  determined  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  the  helplessness  of  the  royal  house  to  destroy 
the  only  representative  that  was  left,  excepting  the 
child  Mephibosheth  (2  Sam.  iv,  4).  They  were  “chiefs 
of  the  marauding  troops”  which  used  from  time  to  time 
to  attack  the  territory  of  Judah  (comp.  2 Sam.  iv,  2;  iii, 
22,  where  the  same  word  THS  is  used;  Yulg . prindpes 
latromm).  They  knew  the  habits  of  the  king  and 
court,  and  acted  accordingly.  In  the  stillness  of  an 
Eastern  noon  they  entered  the  palace,  as  if  to  carry  off 
the  wheat  which  was  piled  up  near  the  entrance.  The 
female,  slave,  who,  as  usual  in  Eastern  houses,  kept  the 
door,  and  was  herself  sifting  the  wheat,  had,  in  the  heat 
of  the  day,  fallen  asleep  at  her  task  (2  Sam.  iv,  5,  6,  in 
Sept,  and  Yulg.).  They  stole  in,  and  passed  into  the 
royal  bedchamber,  where  Ish-bosheth  was  asleep  on  his 
couch  during  his  midday  siesta.^  They  stabbed  him  in 
the  stomach,  cut  oft'  his  head,  made  their  escape,  all 
that  afternoon,  all  that  night,  down  the  valley  of  the 
Jordan  (Arabah,  A.Y.  “plain;”  2 Sam  iv,  7),  and  pre- 
sented the  head  to  David  as  a welcome  present.  B.C. 
104G.  They  met  with  a stern  reception  from  the  mon- 
arch, who — as  both  right  feeling  and  good  policy  re- 
quired— testified  the  utmost  horror  and  concern.  He 
rebuked  them  for  the  cold-blooded  murder  of  an  inno- 
cent man,  and  ordered  them  to  be  executed  ; their  hands 
and  feet  were  cut  off,  and  their  bodies  suspended  over 
the  tank  at  Hebron.  The  head  ,of  Ish-bosheth  was 
carefully  buried  in  the  sepulchre  of  his  great  kinsman 


ISIII 


682 


ISHMAEL 


Aimer,  at  the  same  place  (2  Sam.  iv,  9-12). — Smith; 
Kitto;  Fairbaim.  See  David. 

I'shi  (Hob.  Yishi',  *2X2'),  salutary ; Sept.’l£<r£j,*Eg, 
’Iffffi),  the  name  of  four  men. 

1.  The  son  of  Appaim,  and  father  of  Sheshan,  the 
eighth  in  descent  from  Judah  (1  Chron.  ii,  31).  B.C. 
prol).  post  1012. 

2.  The  father  of  Zoheth  and  Bcn-zoheth,  a descend- 
ant of  Judah,  but  through  what  line  does  not  appear  (1 
Chron.  iv,  20).  The  name  is  possibly  a corruption  for 
the  Isubaii  of  ver.  17.  B.C.  perh.  cir.  1017. 

3.  Father  (progenitor)  of  several  (four  only  are 
named)  Simeonites  who  invaded  Mt.  Seir  and  dispos- 
sessed  the  Amalekites  (1  Chron.  iv,  42).  B.C.  ante  720. 

4.  One  of  the  chiefs  of  Manasseh  East,  of  famous  val- 
or (1  Chron.  v,  24).  B.C.  cir.  720. 

I'SHI  (Ileb.  Ishi',  my  husband;  Sept,  b rimyp 

f.iov,  Vulg.  Yir  metis),  a metaphorical  name  prescribed 
for  himself  by  Jehovah,  to  be  used  by  the  Jewish  Church, 
expressive  of  her  future  fidelity  and  privilege  of  intima- 
cy, in  contrast  with  the  spirit  of  legalism  indicated  by 
the  title  Baali,  “my  master”  (Hos.  ii,  10). 

Ishi 'ah  (Hebrew  Yiskshiyah',  once  1 

Chron.  xii,  6 ; lent  by  Jehovah),  the  name  of  several  men, 
differently  Anglicized. 

1.  (Sept.  ’Itoia,  Vulg.  Jesia,  Author.  Vers.  “ Isliiah.”) 
The  fifth  son  of  Uzzi  (grandson  of  Issacliar),  a valiant 
chieftain  of  his  tribe  (1  Chron.  vii,  3).  B.C.  cir.  1018; 
but  in  ver.  2 lie  is  apparently  made  nearly  contemporary 
with  David.  See  Uzzi. 

2.  (Sept. ’Dcrcrtd  v.r.’lffia/ldia  ; Vulg.  Jesia ; Auth. 
Vers.  “Jesiali,”  “Isshiah.”)  The  second  son  of  Uzziel 
(grandson  of  Levi),  and  father  of  Zecliariah  (1  Chron. 
xxiii,  20;  xxiv,  25).  B.C.  cir.  1018;  although  the  con- 
text seems  to  place  this  one  also  in  the  time  of  David. 

3.  (Sept.  ’Dmuc,  Vulg.  Jesias,  Auth. Vers.  “Isshiah.”) 
The  first  of  the  sons  of  Beliabiali,  and  great-grandson 
of  Moses  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  21;  compare  xxiii,  17 ; xxvi, 
25,  where  he  is  called  Jesiiaiaii).  B.C.  post  1018.  See  I 

IlEIlAllf  All. 

4.  (Sept,  ’lema,  Vulg.  Jesia,  Author.  Vers.  “ Jesiali.”) 
A Korhite,  and  one  of  the  braves  that  joined  David  at 
Ziklag  (1  Chron.  xii,  0).  B.C.  1055. 

5.  (Sept.  ’ I taaia,  Vulg.  Josue,  Auth.  Vers.  “ Ishijah.”) 
One  of  the  “sons”  of  Harim,  who  renounced  his  Gentile 
wife  after  the  captivity  (Ezra  x,  31).  B.C.  459. 

Islii'jah  (Ezra  x,31).  See  Isiiiaii,  5. 

Ish'ma  (Ileb.  Yishma',  X-w*1,  desolation,  otherwise 
hiyh  ; Sept,  ’itrrfia),  a descendant  of  Judah,  apparently 
named  (with  two  brothers  and  a sister)  as  a son  of  the 
founder  (“father”)  of  Etam  (1  Chron.  iv,  3).  B.C.prob. 
cir.  1012. 

Ish'mael  (Heb.  Yishmael',  bnV'Z‘2*  .heard  by  God; 
Sept.  TffjtmiyX,  Joseph.  ItjfidijXoc),  the  name  of  several 
men. 

1.  Abraham’s  eldest  son,  born  to  him  by  the  concu- 
bine llagar  (Gen.  xvi,  15;  xvii,  23).  See  Abraiiam; 
IIacar.  It  may  here  be  remarked  that  the  age  attrib- 
uted to  him  in  Gen.  xxi,  14  is  not  inconsistent  with 
Gen.  xvii,  25  (see  Tuch,  Comm.  p.  382).  The  story  of 
his  birth,  as  recorded  in  Gen.  xvi,  is  ill  every  respect 
characteristic  of  Eastern  life  and  morals  in  the  present 
age.  The  intense  desire  of  both  Abraham  and  Sarah 
for  children ; Sarah’s  gift  of  llagar  to  Abraham  as  wife ; 
the  insolence  of  the  slave  when  suddenly  raised  to  a 
place  of  importance;  the  jealoiusv  and  consequent  tyr- 
anny of  her  high-spirited  mistress;  Ilagar’s  flight,  re- 
turn, and  submission  to  Sarah — for  all  these  incidents 
we  could  easily  find  parallels  in  the  modern  history  of 
every  tribe  in  the  desert  of  Arabia.  The  origin  of  the 
name  Ishmael  is  thus  explained.  When  llagar  fled 
from  Sarah,  the  angel  of  the  Lord  found  her  by  a foun- 
tain of  water  in  the  wilderness  in  the  way  of  Sliur  . . . 
and  he  said,  “ Behold,  thou  art  with  child,  and  shalt  bear 


a son,  and  shalt  call  his  name  Ishmael  (‘God  hears’), 
because  the  Lord  hath  heard  thy  affliction”  (Gen.  xvi, 
11).  llagar  had  evidently  intended,  when  she  fled,  to 
return  to  her  native  country.  But  when  the  angel  told 
her  of  the  dignity  in  store  for  her  as  a mother,  and  the 
power  to  which  her  child,  as  the  son  of  the  great  patri- 
arch, would  attain,  she  resolved  to  obey  his  voice,  and 
to  submit  herself  to  Sarah  (xvi,  10-13). 

1.  Ishmael  was  born  at  Mamre,  in  the  eighty-sixth 
year  of  Abraham’s  age,  eleven  years  after  his  arrival  in 
Canaan,  and  fourteen  before  the  birth  of  Isaac  (xvi,  3, 
10;  xxi,  5).  B.C.  2078.  No  particulars  of  his  early 
life  are  recorded,  except  his  circumcision  when  thirteen 
years  of  age  (xvii,  25).  B.C.  20G5.  His  father  was  evi- 
dently strongly  attached  to  him;  for  when  an  heir  was 
promised  through  Sarah,  he  said,  “ Oh  that  Ishmael 
might  live  before  thee !”  (xvii,  18).  Then  were  renewed 
to  Abraham  in  more  definite  terms  the  promises  made 
to  Hagar  regarding  Ishmael:  “As  for  Ishmael,  I have 
heard  thee;  behold,  I have  blessed  him,  and  will  make 
him  fruitful,  and  will  multiply  him  exceedingly:  twelve 
princes  shall  he  beget : and  I will  make  him  a great  na- 
tion” (ver.  20).  Before  this  time  Abraham  seems  to 
have  regarded  his  first-born  child  as  the  heir  of  the 
promise,  his  belief  in  which  was  counted  unto  him  for 
righteousness  (xv,  0) ; and  although  that  faith  shone 
yet  more  brightly  after  his  passing  weakness  when  Isaac 
was  first  promised,  his  love  for  Ishmael  is  recorded  in 
the  narrative  of  Sarah’s  expulsion  of  the  latter:  “And 
the  thing  was  very  grievous  in  Abraham’s  sight  be- 
cause of  his  son”  (xxi,  11). 

Ishmael  seems  to  have  remained  in  a great  measure 
under  the  charge  of  his  mother,  who,  knowing  his  des- 
tiny, would  doubtless  have  him  trained  in  such  exer- 
cises as  would  fit  him  for  successfully  acting  the  part  of 
a desert  prince.  Indulged  in  every  whim  and  wish  by 
a fond  father,  encouraged  to  daring  and  adventure  by 
the  hardy  nomads  who  fed  and  defended  his  father’s 
flocks,  and  having  a fitting  field  on  that  southern  bor- 
der-land for  the  play  of  his  natural  propensities,  Ishmael 
grew  up  a true  child  of  the  desert — a wild  and  wayward 
boy.  The  perfect  freedom  of  desert  life,  and  his  con- 
stant intercourse  with  those  who  looked  up  to  him  with 
mingled  feelings  of  pride  and  affection  as  the  son  and 
heir-apparent,  of  their  great  chief,  tended  to  make  him 
impatient  of  restraint,  and  overbearing  in  his  temper. 
The  excitement  of  the  chase — speeding  across  the  plains 
of  Beersheba  after  the  gazelles,  and  through  the  rugged 
mountains  of  Engedi  after  wild  goats,  and  bears,  and 
leopards,  inured  him  to  danger,  and  trained  him  for  war. 
Ishmael  must  also  have  been  accustomed  from  child- 
hood to  those  feuds  which  raged  almost  incessantly  be- 
tween the  “ trained  servants”  of  Abraham  and  their  war- 
like neighbors  of  I’liilistia,  as  well  as  to  the  more  seri- 
ous incursions  of  roving  bands  of  freebooters  from  the 
distant  East.  Such  was  the  school  in  which  the  great 
desert  chief  was  trained.  Subsequent  events  served  to 
fill  up  and  fashion  the  remaining  features  of  Ishmael’s 
character.  lie  had  evidently  been  treated  by  Abra- 
ham’s dependents  as  their  master’s  heir,  and  Abraham 
himself  had  apparently  encouraged  the  belief.  The  un- 
expected birth  of  Isaac,  therefore,  must  have  been  to  him 
a end  and  bitter  disappointment.  And  when  he  was  af- 
terwards driven  forth,  with  his  poor  mother,  a homeless 
wanderer  in  a pathless  wilderness ; when,  in  consequence 
of  such  unnatural  harshness,  he  was  brought  to  the  very 
brink  of  the  grave,  and  was  only  saved  from  a painful 
death  by  a miracle;  when,  after  having  been  reared  in 
luxury,  and  taught  to  look  forward  to  the  possession  of 
wealtli  and  power,  he  was  suddenly  left  to  win  a scanty 
and  uncertain  subsistence  by  his  sword  and  bow — we 
need  scarcely  wonder  that  his  proud  spirit,  revolting 
against  injustice  and  cruelty,  should  make  him  what 
the  angel  had  predicted,  “ a wild-ass  man ; his  hand 
against  every  man,  and  every  man’s  hand  against  him” 
(xvi,  32). 

2.  The  first  recorded  outbreak  of  Ishmael’s  rude  and 


ISHMAEL 


683 


ISHMAEL 


wayward  spirit  occurred  at  the  weaning  of  Isaac.  B.C. 
2061.  On  that  occasion  Abraham  made  a great  least 
after  the  custom  of  the  country.  In  the  excitement  of 
the  moment,  heightened  probably  by  the  painful  con- 
sciousness of  his  own  blighted  hopes,  Ishmael  could  not 
restrain  his  temper,  but  gave  way  to  some  insulting  ex- 
pressions or  gestures  of  mockery.  Perhaps  the  very 
name  of  the  child,  Isaac  (“  laughter”),  and  the  exuber- 
ant joy  of  his  aged  mother,  may  have  furnished  sub- 
jects for  his  untimely  satire.  Sec  Isaac.  Be  this  as  it 
may,  Sarah’s  jealous  eye  and  quick  ear  speedily  detect- 
ed him ; and  she  said  to  Abraham,  “ Expel  this  slave 
and  her  son;  for  the  son  of  this  slave  shall  not  be  heir 
with  my  son,  with  Isaac”  (xxi,  10).  Now  Abraham 
loved  the  boy  who  first,  lisping  the  name  “ father,”  open- 
ed in  his  heart  the  gushing  fountain  of  paternal  affec- 
tion. The  bare  mention  of  such  an  unnatural  act  made 
him  angry  even  with  Sarah,  and  it  was  only  when  in- 
fluenced by  a divine  admonition  that  he  yielded.  The 
brief  account  of  the  departure  of  Hagar,and  her  journey 
through  the  desert,  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  and 
touching  pictures  of  patriarchal  life  which  has  come 
down  to  us:  “And  Abraham  rose  early  in  the  morning, 
and  took  bread,  and  a skin  of  water,  and  gave  it  to  I la- 
gar,  putting  it  on  her  shoulder,  and  the  lad  (ib^n),  and 
sent  her  away;  and  she  departed,  and  wandered  in  the 
wilderness  of  Beersheba.  And  when  the  water  was 
spent  in  the  skin,  she  placed  the  lad  under  one  of  the 
shrubs.  And  she  went  and  sat  down  opposite,  at  the 
distance  of  a bowshot;  for  she  said, I will  not  see  the 
death  of  the  lad.  And  she  sat  opposite,  and  lifted  up 
her  voice  and  wept”  (xxi,  14-16). 

Isaac  was  born  when  Abraham  was  a hundred  years 
old  (xxi,  5),  and  as  the  weaning,  according  to  Eastern 
usage,  probably  took  place  when  the  child  wac  about 
three  years  old,  Ishmael  himself  must  have  been  then 
about  sixteen  years  old.  The  age  of  the  latter  at  the 
period  of  his  circumcision,  and  at  that  of  his  expulsion, 
lias  given  occasion  for  some  literary  speculation.  A care- 
fid  consideration  of  the  passages  referring  to  it  fails,  how- 
ever, to  show  any  discrepancy  between  them.  In  Gen. 
xvii,25,  it  is  stated  that  he  was  thirteen  years  old  when 
he  was  circumcised;  and  in  xxi,  14  (probably  two  or 
three  years  later)  “Abraham  . . . took  bread,  and  a 
bottle  of  water,  and  gave  [it]  lmto  Hagar,  putting  [it] 
on  her  shoulder,  and  the  child,  and  sent  her  away.” 
Here  it  is  at  least  unnecessary  to  assume  that  the  child 
was  put  on  her  shoulder,  the  construction  of  the  Hebrew 
(mistranslated  by  the  Sept.,  with  whom  seems  to  rest  the 
origin  of  the  question)  not  requiring  it ; and  the  sense 
of  the  passage  renders  it  highly  improbable : Hagar  cer- 
tainly carried  the  bottle  on  her  shoulder,  and  perhaps 
the  bread:  she  could  hardly  have  also  thus  carried  a 
child.  Again,  these  passages  are  quite  irreconcilable 
with  ver.  20  of  the  last  quoted  chapter,  where  Ishmael  is 
termed  A.V.  “lad”  (comp.,  for  use  of  this  word, 

Gen.  xxxiv,  19;  xxxvii,  2;  xli,  12).  It  may  seem 
strange  to  some  that  the  hardy,  active  boy,  inured  to 
fatigue,  should  have  been  sooner  overcome  by  thirst 
than  his  mother;  but  those  advanced  in  life  can  bear 
abstinence  longer  than  the  young,  and,  besides,  Ishmael 
bad  probably  exhausted  his  strength  in  vain  attempts 
to  gain  a supply  of  food  by  his  how.  Again  Hagar  is 
saved  by  a miracle : “ God  heard  the  voice  of  the  lad 
. . . and  said  unto  her, What  aileth  thee,  Hagar?  Fear 
not  . . . And  God  opened  her  eyes,  and  she  saw  a well 
of  water”  (ver.  17, 19).  And  again  the  cheering  prom- 
ise is  renewed  to  her  son,  “ I will  make  of  him  a great 
nation”  (ver.  18). 

3.  The  wilderness  of  Paran,  lying  along  the  western 
side  of  the  Arabah,  between  Canaan  and  the  mountains 
of  Sinai,  now  became  the  home  of  Ishmael  (see  Baum- 
garten,  Comm.  I,i,  22) : “ And  God  was  with  him,  and  he 
became  a great  archer”  (ver.  20).  Some  of  the  border 
tribes  with  which  the  shepherds  of  Abraham  were  wont 
to  meet  and  strive  at  the  wells  of  Gerar,  Beersheba,  and 


En-Mishpat  probably  received  and  welcomed  the  out- 
cast to  their  tents.  A youth  of  his  warlike  training  and 
daring  spirit  would  soon  acquire  a name  and  a high  po- 
sition among  nomads.  (See  Prokesch,  Spec.  Hist.  A rub , 
p.  46.)  His  relationship  to  Abraham  also  would  add  to 
his  personal  claims.  It  would  seem  to  have  been  the 
original  intention  of  his  mother  to  return  to  Egypt,  to 
which  country  she  belonged ; but  this  being  prevented, 
she  was  content  to  obtain  for  her  son  wives  from  thence 
(Gen.  xxi,  9-21  ; on  which  latter  verse  the  Targum  of 
Jonathan  adds  traditionally  that  he  divorced  his  first 
wife  Ailisha,  and  then  married  an  Egyptian  I’hatima). 
Ilis  mother,  accordingly,  as  soon  as  she  saw  him  settled, 
took  for  him  an  Egyptian  wife — one  of  her  own  people, 
and  thus  completely  separated  him  from  his  Shemitic 
connections.  This  wile  of  Ishmael  is  not  elsewhere 
mentioned;  she  was,  we  must  infer,  an  Egyptian;  and 
this  second  infusion  of  llamitic  blood  into  the  progeni- 
tors of  the  Arab  nation,  Ishmacl’s  sons,  is  a fact  that  has 
generally  been  overlooked.  No  record  is  made  of  any 
other  wife  of  Ishmael,  and  failing  such  record,  the  Egyp- 
tian was  the  mother  of  his  twelve  sons  and  daughter. 
This  daughter,  however,  is  called  the  “sister  of  Neba- 
joth”  (Gen.  xxviii,  9),  and  this  limitation  of  the  parent- 
age of  the  brother  and  sister  certainly  seems  to  point  to 
a different  mother  for  Ishmael’s  other  sons.  The  Arabs, 
probably  borrowing  from  the  above  Rabbinical  tradition, 
assert  that  he  twice  married ; the  first  wife  being  an 
Amalekite,by  whom  he  had  no  issue;  and  the  second  a 
Joktanite,  of  the  tribe  of  Jurlium  (M ir-dt  et-Zemdn , ISIS., 
quoting  a tradition  of  Mohammed  Ibn-Is-hak).  Though 
Ishmael  joined  the  native  tribes  of  Arabia,  his  posterity 
did  not  amalgamate  with  them.  The  Joktanites  have 
' left  traces  of  their  names  and  settlements  chiefly  in  the 
southern  and  south-eastern  parts  of  the  peninsula,  while 
the  Ishmaelites  kept  closer  to  the  borders  of  Canaan 
(see  Forster’s  Geography  of  Arabia,  i,  77  sq.). 

4.  Although  their  lots  were  cast  apart,  it  does  not^ap- 
pear  that  any  serious  alienation  existed  between  Ish- 
mael and  Isaac;  for  when  Abraham  died,  we  read  that 
“ his  sons  Isaac  and  Ishmael  buried  him  in  the  cave  of 
Machpelah.”  The  rival  brothers  then  met,  in  the  vale 
of  Mamre,  at  their  father’s  tomb  (Gen.  xxv,  9).  B.C. 
1989.  (The  Talmud  states  [Baba  Bathra,  16]  that 

I prior  to  Abraham’s  death  Ishmael  had  forsaken  the  no- 
| madic  mode  of  life.)  That  must  have  been  a strange 
and  deeply  interesting  scene  at  the  burial  of  the  great 
patriarch.  All  his  own  old  “ trained  servants,”  with 
I Isaac,  the  peaceful  shepherd  chief,  at  their  head,  were 
I assembled  there ; while  Ishmael,  surrounded  by  the 
whole  body  of  his  wild  retainers  and  allies,  as  was  and 
still  is  the  custom  of  Bedawy  sheiks,  stood  there  too. 
As  funerals  in  the  East  take  place  almost  immediately 
after  death,  it  is  evident  that  Ishmael  must  have  been 
called  from  the  desert  to  the  death-bed  of  bis  father, 
which  implies  that  relations  of  kindness  and  respect  hail 
been  kept  up,  although  the  brevity  of  the  sacred  nar- 
rative prevents  any  special  notice  of  this  circumstance. 
Ishmael  hail,  probably,  long  before  received  an  endow- 
ment from  his  father’s  property  similar  to  that  which  had 
been  bestowed  upon  the  sons  of  Iveturah  (Gen.  xxv,  6). 

5.  Of  Ishmael’s  personal  history  after  this  event  we 
know  nothing.  The  sacred  historian  gives  us  a list  of 
his  twelve  sons,  tells  us  that  Esau  married  his  daughter 
Mahalath,  the  sister  of  Nebajoth  (xxviii,  9),  and  sums 
up  the  brief  simple  sketch  in  these  words:  “These  are 
the  years  of  the  life  of  Ishmael,  a hundred  and  thirty- 
seven  years;  and  he  died,  and  was  gathered  to  his  peo-  • 
pie”  (xxv,  17).  B.C.  1941.  Where  he  died,  or  where 
lie  was  buried,  we  know  not. 

6.  It  has  been  shown,  in  the  article  Arabia,  that 
Ishmael  had  no  claim  to  the  honor,  which  is  usually  as- 

I signed  to  him,  of  being  the  founder  of  the  Arabian  na- 
tion. That  nation  existed  before  he  was  born.  He 
merely  joined  it,  and  adopted  its  habits  of  life  and  char- 
acter; and  the  tribes  which  sprung  from  him  formed 
eventually  an  important  section  of  the  tribes  oi  which 


ISIHIAEL 


684 


ISHMAEL 


it  was  composed.  (See  also  Hottingcr,  Hist.  Orient,  p.  1 
210.)  At  this  period  the  Arabian  desert  appears  to  j 
have  been  thinly  peopled  by  descendants  of  Joktan,  the  : 
son  of  Eber,  “ whose  dwelling  was  from  Mesha,  as  thou  j 
gocst  unto  Septhar,  a mount  of  the  east”  (Gen.  x,  25-30). 
The  Joktanites,  or  Bene-Kahtan,  are  regarded  by  Arab 
historians  as  the  first  and  most  honorable  progenitors  of 
the  Arab  tribes  (D’llerbelot, Bibliotheque  Onentale , s.  v. 
Arabes).  Sec  Joktan. 

Ishmacl  had  twelve  sons:  Nebajoth,  Kedar,  Abdecl, 
Mibsatn,  Mishina,  Dumah,  Massa,  Hadar,  Tema,  Jetur, 
Naphish,  and  Kedemah.  To  the  list  of  them,  the  sa-  1 
cred  historian  appends  (Gen.  xxv,  16)  an  important  piece 
of  information : “ These  are  the  sons  of  Ishmael,  and 
these  are  their  names,  by  their  cities  (EFP“un,  “forti- 
fied towns”),  and  their  camps  (C  nrJ) ; twelve  princes 
according  to  their  nations' ’ (EPEXb).  Every  one  of  the 
twelve  sons  of  Ishmael,  therefore,  like  the  children  of 
Jacob,  was  the  head  of  a tribe,  and  the  founder  of  a dis- 
tinct colony  or  camp.  In  this  respect  the  statements  in 
the  Bible  exactly  accord  with  the  ancient  traditions  and 
histories  of  the  Arabs  themselves.  Native  historians 
divide  the  Arabs  into  two  races:  1.  Pure  Arabs,  de- 
scendants of  Joktan ; and,  2.  Mixed  A rabs,  descendants 
of  Ishmael.  Abulfeda  gives  a brief  account  of  the  sev-  J 
oral  tribes  and  nations  which  descended  from  both  these 
original  stocks  ( Historia  A nteislamica,  cd.  Fleischer,  p.  1 
160,  191  sq.).  Some  of  the  tribes  founded  by  sons  of 
Ishmael  retained  the  names  of  their  founders,  and  were 
well  known  in  history.  The  Xabatheeans , who  took  pos- 
session of  Idumaea  in  the  4tli  century  B.C.,  and  con- 
structed the  wonderful  monuments  of  Petra,  were  the 
posterity  of  Nebajoth,  Ishmael’s  eldest  son.  See  Naba-  j 
ti leans.  The  descendants  of  Jetur  and  Naphish  dis- 
puted with  the  Israelites  possession  of  the  country  east  ! 
of  the  Jordan,  and  the  former,  described  by  Strabo  as  I 
Kcacovpyoi  tt dvreq  (xvi,  2),  gave  their  name  to  a small  j 
province  south  of  Damascus,  which  it  bears  to  this  day. 
See  Itir.ea.  The  black  tents  of  Kedar  were  pitched  1 
in  the  heart  of  the  Arabian  desert,  and  from  their  abun- 
dant flocks  they  supplied  the  marts  of  Tyre  (Jer.  ii,  10;  I 
Isa.  lx,  7;  Ezek.  xxvii,  21).  The  district  of  Tema  lay 
south  of  Edom,  and  is  referred  to  by  both  Job  and  Isai- 
ah (Job  vi,  19;  Isa.  xxi,  14;  Forster’s  (itogr.  of  Arabia, 
i,292;  Heercn’s  Historical  Researches,  ii,  107).  Dumah 
has  left  his  name  to  a small  province  of  Arabia.  Since 
the  days  of  Abraham  the  tents  of  the  Islimaelites  have 
been  studded  along  the  whole  eastern  confines  of  Pales- 
tine, and  they  have  been  scattered  over  Arabia  from  the 
borders  of  Egypt  to  the  banks  of  the  Euphrates.  As 
friends  and  foes,  as  oppressors  and  oppressed — but  ever 
as  freemen  — the  seed  of  Ishmael  have  “dwelt  in  the 
presence  of  their  brethren.” 

Of  this  last  expression  various  explanations  have 
been  given,  but  the  plainest  is  the  most  probable ; which 
is,  that  Ishmael  and  the  tribes  springing  from  him 
should  always  be  located  near  the  kindred  tribes  de- 
scended from  Abraham.  This  was  a promise  of  benefit 
in  that  age  of  migration,  when  Abraham  himself  had 
come  from  beyond  the  Euphrates,  and  was  a stranger 
and  sojourner  in  the  land  of  Canaan.  There  was  thus, 
in  fact,  a relation  of  some  importance  between  this 
promise  and  the  promise  of  the  heritage  of  Canaan  to 
another  branch  of  Abraham's  offspring.  It  had  seem- 
ingly some  such  force  as  this — The  heritage  of  Canaan 
i’  indeed  destined  for  another  son  of  Abraham ; but 
still  the  lot  of  Ishmael,  and  of  those  that  spring  from 
him,  shall  never  be  cast  far  apart  from  that  of  his  breth-  : 
ren.  This  view  is  confirmed  by  the  circumstance  that 
the  Israelites  did,  in  fact,  occupy  the  country  bordering 
on  that  in  which  the  various  tribes  descended  from 
Abraham  or  Tcrah  had  settled — the  Israelites,  Edom- 
ites, Midianites,  Moabites,  Ammonites,  etc.  Most  in- 
terpreters find  in  this  passage  a promise  that  the  de- 
scendants of  Ishmael  should  never  be  subdued.  But 
we  are  unable  to  discover  this  in  the  text ; and,  more- 


over, such  has  not  been  the  fact,  whether  we  regard  the 
Islimaelites  apart  from  the  other  Arabians,  or  consider 
the  promise  made  to  Ishmael  as  applicable  to  the  whole 
Arabian  family.  The  Arabian  tribes  are  in  a state  of 
subjection  at  this  moment;  and  the  great  "Wahaby  con- 
federacy among  them,  which  not  many  years  ago  filled 
"Western  Asia  with  alarm,  is  now  no  longer  heard  of. 

The  prophecy  which  drew  their  character  has  been 
fulfilled  with  equal  minuteness  of  detail.  “He  shall  be 
a icild  ass  of  a man  (C1X  X“)3) ; his  hand  against  ev- 
ery man,  and  every  man’s  hand  against  him.”  This 
means,  in  short,  that  he  and  his  descendants  should  lead 
the  life  of  the  Bedouins  of  the  Arabian  deserts;  and 
how  graphically  this  description  portrays  their  habits 
may  be  seen  in  notes  on  these  verses  in  the  Pictorial 
Bible,  and  in  the  works  of  Niebuhr,  Burckliardt,  Lane, 
etc. ; and,  more  particularly,  in  the  Arabian  romance  of 
Antar , which  presents  the  most  perfect  picture  of  real 
Bedouin  manners  now  in  existence.  A recent  commen- 
tator on  the  passage  has  illustrated  the  prophecy  with 
equal  force  and  beauty.  “The  character  of  the  Ishma- 
elites,  or  the  Bedouins,  could  not  be  described  more  apt- 
ly or  more  powerfully.  Against  them  alone  time  seems 
to  have  no  sickle,  and  the  conqueror’s  sword  no  edge. 
They  have  defied  the  softening  influence  of  civilization, 
and  mocked  the  attacks  of  the  invader.  Ungovernable 
and  roaming,  obeying  no  law  but  their  spirit  of  adven- 
ture, regarding  all  mankind  as  their  enemies,  whom  they 
must  cither  attack  with  their  spears  or  elude  with  their 
faithful  steeds,  and  cherishing  their  deserts  as  heartily 
as  they  despise  the  constraint  of  towns  and  communi- 
ties, the  Bedouins  arc  the  outlaws  among  the  nations. 
Plunder  is  legitimate  gain,  a daring  robbery  is  praised 
as  valor”  (Kalisch,  ad  loc.).  See  Isiimaelite. 

7.  The  notions  of  the  Arabs  respecting  Ishmael  (Is- 
mail) are  partly  derived  from  the  Bible,  partly  from  the 
Jewish  Rabbins,  and  partly  from  native  traditions.  The 
origin  of  many  of  these  traditions  is  obscure,  but  a great 
number  may  be  ascribed  to  the  fact  of  Mohammed’s 
having,  for  political  reasons,  claimed  Ishmael  for  his 
ancestor,  and  striven  to  make  out  an  impossible  pedi- 
gree ; while  both  he  and  his  followers  have,  as  a conse- 
quence of  accepting  this  assumed  descent,  sought  to  ex- 
alt that  ancestor.  Another  reason  may  be  safely  found 
in  Ishmael's  acknowledged  headship  of  the  naturalized 
Arabs,  and  this  cause  existed  from  the  very  period  of 
his  settlement.  See  Arabia.  Yet  the  rivalry  of  the 
Joktanite  kingdom  of  Southern  Arabia,  and  its  inter- 
course with  classical  and  mediieval  Europe,  the  wander- 
ing and  unsettled  habits  of  the  Islimaelites,  their  hav- 
ing no  literature,  and,  as  far  as  we  know,  only  a meagre 
oral  tradition,  all  contributed,  till  the  importance  it  ac- 
quired with  the  promulgation  of  El-Islnm,  to  render  our 
knowledge  of  the  Ishmaelitic  portion  cf  the  people  of 
Arabia,  before  Mohammed,  lamentably  defective.  That 
they  maintained,  and  still  maintain,  a patriarchal  and 
primitive  form  of  life,  is  known  to  ns.  Their  religion, 
at  least  in  the  period  immediately  preceding  Moham- 
med, was  in  Central  Arabia  chiefly  the  grossest  fetish- 
ism, probably  learnt  from  aboriginal  inhabitants  of  the 
land ; southwards  it  diverged  to  the  cosmic  worship  of 
the  Joktanite  llimyeritcs  (though  these  were  far  from 
being  exempt  from  fetishism),  and  northwards  (so  at 
least  in  ancient  times)  to  an  approach  to  that  true  faith 
which  Ishmael  carried  with  him,  and  his  descendants 
thus  gradually  lost.  This  last  point  is  curiously  illus- 
trated by  the  numbers  who,  in  Arabia,  became  either 
Jews  (Karaites)  or  Christians  (though  of  a very  corrupt 
form  of  Christianity),  and  by  the  movement  in  search 
of  the  faith  of  the  patriarchs  which  had  been  put  for- 
ward, not  long  before  the  birth  of  Mohammed,  by  men 
not  satisfied  with  Judaism  or  the  corrupt  form  of  Chris- 
tianity with  which  alone  they  ivere  acquainted.  This 
movement  first  aroused  Mohammed,  and  was  afterwards 
the  main  cause  of  his  success. 

The  Arabs  believe  that  Ishmael  was  the  first-born  of 
Abraham,  and  the  majority  of  their  doctors  (but  the 


ISHMAEL 


685 


ISHMAEL 


point  is  in  dispute)  assert  that  this  son,  and  not  Isaac, 
was  offered  by  Abraham  in  sacrifice.  The  scene  of  this 
sacrifice  is  Mount  ’Arafat,  near  Mecca,  the  last  holy 
place  visited  by  pilgrims,  it  being  necessary  to  the  com- 
pletion of  pilgrimage  to  be  present  at  a sermon  delivered 
there  on  the  9th  of  the  Mohammedan  month  Zu-l-llej- 
jeh,  in  commemoration  of  the  offering,  and  to  sacrifice 
a victim  on  the  following  evening  after  sunset,  in  the 
valley  of  Mink.  The  sacrifice  last  mentioned  is  observ- 
ed throughout  the  Muslim  world,  and  the  day  on  which 
it  is  made  is  called  “The  Great  Festival”  (Lane’s  Mod. 
Egypt,  eh.  iii).  lshmael,  say  the  Arabs,  dwelt  with  his 
mother  at  Mekkeh,  and  both  are  buried  in  the  place 
called  the  “Hejr,”  on  the  north-west  (termed  by  the 
Arabs  the  north)  side  of  the  lvaabeh,  and  inclosed  by  a 
curved  wall  called  the  “ Ilatim.”  lshmael  was  visited 
at  Mekkeh  by  Abraham,  and  they  together  rebuilt  the 
temple,  which  had  been  destroyed  by  a flood.  At  Mek- 
keh, lshmael  married  a daughter  of  Mudad  or  El-Mu- 
dad,  chief  of  the  Joktanite  tribe  Jurhum,  and  had  thir- 
teen children  ( Mir-dt  ez-Zeman,  MS.),  thus  agreeing 
with  the  Biblical  number,  including  the  daughter. 

Mohammed’s  descent  from  lshmael  is  totally  lost,  for 
an  unknown  number  of  generations,  to  ’Admin,  of  the 
twenty-first  generation  before  the  prophet:  from  him 
downwards  the  latter’s  descent  is,  if  we  may  believe  the 
genealogists,  fairly  proved.  But  we  have  evidence  far 
more  trustworthy  than  that  of  the  genealogists;  for, 
while  most  of  the  natives  of  Arabia  are  unable  to  trace 
up  their  pedigrees , it  is  scarcely  possible  to  find  one  who 
js  ignorant  of  his  race , seeing  that  his  very  life  often 
depends  upon  it.  The  law  of  blood-revenge  necessitates 
his  knowing  the  names  of  his  ancestors  for  four  genera- 
tions, but  no  more;  and  this  law,  extending  from  time 
immemorial,  has  made  any  confusion  of  race  almost  im- 
possible. This  law,  it  should  be  remembered,  is  not  a 
law  of  Mohammed,  but  an  old  pagan  law  that  he  en- 
deavored to  suppress,  but  could  not.  In  casting  doubt 
on  the  prophet’s  pedigree,  we  must  add  that  this  cannot 
affect  the  proofs  of  the  chief  element  of  the  Arab  nation 
being  Ishmaelitish  (and  so,  too,  the  tribe  of  lvureysh,  of 
whom  was  Mohammed).  Although  partly  mixed  with 
Joktanites,  they  are  more  mixed  with  Keturahites,  etc.; 
the  characteristics  of  the  Joktanites,  as  before  remarked, 
are  widely  different  from  those  of  the  Ishmaelites;  and, 
whatever  theories  may  be  adduced  to  the  contrary,  we 
believe  that  the  Arabs,  from  physical  characteristics, 
language,  the  concurrence  of  native  traditions  ( before 
Mohammedanism  made  them  untrustworthy),  and  the 
testimony  of  the  Bible,  are  mainly  and  essentially  Ish- 
maelitish.— Kit  to;  Smith. 

2.  The  father  (or  ancestor)  of  Zebadiah,  which  latter 
was  “ruler  of  the  house  of  Judah”  under  Jehoshaphat. 
(2  Chron.  xix,  11).  B.C.  cir.  900. 

3.  Son  of  Jehohanan,  and  captain  of  a “hundred” 
under  the  regency  of  Jehoiada  (2  Chron.  xxiii,  1).  B.C. 
877. 

4.  One  of  the  six  sons  of  Azel,  of  the  tribe  of  Benja- 
min (1  Chron.  viii,  38;  ix,  44).  B.C.  ante  588. 

5.  The  son  of  Nethaniah,  whose  treachery  forms  one 
of  the  chief  episodes  of  the  history  of  the  period  imme- 
diately succeeding  the  first  fall  of  Jerusalem  (Jer.  xl,  7- 
xli,  15,  with  a short  summary  in  2 Kings  xxv,  23-25). 
B.C.  587.  His  full  description  is  “ lshmael,  the  son  of 
Nethaniah,  the  son  of  Elishama,  of  the  seed  royal”  of 
Judah  (Jer.  xli,  1 ; 2 Kings  xxv,  25).  Whether  by  this 
is  intended  that  he  was  actually  a son  of  Zedekiah,  or  of 
one  of  the  later  kings,  or,  more  generally,  that  he  had 
royal  blood  in  his  veins — perhaps  a descendant  of  Eli- 
shama, the  son  of  David  (2  Sam.  v,  16) — we  cannot  tell. 
Jerome  ( Qu . Hebr.  on  2 Chron.  xxviii,  7)  interprets  this 
expression  as  meaning  “of  the  seed  of  Molcch.”  He 
gives  the  same  meaning  to  the  words  “the  king's  son” 
applied  to  Maaseiah  in  the  above  passage.  The  ques- 
tion is  an  interesting  one,  and  has  recently  been  revived 
by  Geiger  ( Urschrift , etc.,  p.  307),  who  extends  it.  to 
other  passages  and  persons.  See  Molech.  Jerome  (as 


above)  further  says — perhaps  on  the  strength  of  a tra- 
dition— that  lshmael  was  the  son  of  an  Egyptian  slave, 
Gera : as  a reason  why  the  “ seed  royal”  should  bear  the 
meaning  he  gives  it.  During  the  siege  of  the  city  he 
had,  like  many  others  of  his  countrymen  (Jer.  xl,  11), 
fled  across  the  Jordan,  where  he  found  a refuge  at  the 
court  of  Baalis,  then  king  of  the  Bene-Ammon  (Jo- 
sephus, Ant.  x,  9,  2).  Ammonitish  women  were  some- 
times found  in  the  harems  of  the  kings  of  Jerusalem  (1 
Kings  xi,  1),  and  lshmael  may  have  been  thus  related 
to  the  Ammonitish  court  on  his  mother’s  side.  At  any 
rate,  he  was  instigated  by  Baalis  to  the  designs  which 
he  accomplished  but  too  successfully  (Jer.  xl,  14;  Jo- 
sephus, Ant.  x,  9,  3).  Several  bodies  of  Jews  appear  to 
have  been  lying  under  arms  in  the  plains  on  the  south- 
east of  the  Jordan,  during  the  last  days  of  Jerusalem, 
watching  the  progress  of  affairs  in  Western  Palestine, 
commanded  by  “princes”  (D‘H',2),  the  chief  of  whom 
were  lshmael,  and  two  brothers,  Johanan  and  Jonathan, 
sons  of  Kareah.  Immediately  after  the  departure  of 
the  Chahkean  army  these  men  moved  across  the  Jordan 
to  pay  their  respects  to  Gedaliah,  whom  the  king  of 
Babylon  had  left  as  superintendent  ("Pp£)  of  the  prov- 
ince. Gedaliah  had  taken  up  his  residence  at  Mizpah, 
a few  miles  north  of  Jerusalem,  on  the  main  road,  where 
Jeremiah  the  prophet  resided  with  him  (xl,  G).  The 
house  would  appear  to  have  been  isolated  from  the  rest 
of  the  town.  We  can  discern  a high  inclosed  court- 
yard and  a deep  well  within  its  precincts.  The  well 
was  certainly  (Jer.  xli,  9 ; comp.  1 Kings  xv,  22),  and 
the  whole  residence  was  probably,  a relic  of  the  military 
works  of  Asa,  king  of  Judah.  lshmael  made  no  secret 
of  his  intention  to  kill  the  superintendent  and  usurp 
his  position.  Of  this  Gedaliah  was  warned  in  express 
terms  by  Johanan  and  his  companions;  and  Johanan, 
in  a secret  interview,  foreseeing  how  irreparable  a mis- 
fortune Gedaliah’s  death  would  be  at  this  juncture  (xl, 
15),  offered  to  remove  the  danger  by  killing  lshmael. 
This,  however,  Gedaliah,  a man  evidently  of  a high  and 
unsuspecting  nature,  would  not  hear  of  (xl,  16;  and  see 
the  amplification  in  Josephus,  Ant.  x,  9,  3).  They  all 
accordingly  took  leave.  Thirty  days  after  (Josephus, 
Ant.  x,  9,  4),  in  the  seventh  month  (Jer.  xli,  1),  on  the 
third  day  of  the  month — so  says  the  tradition — Lshmael 
again  appeared  at  Mizpah,  this  time  accompanied  by 
ten  men,  who  were,  according  to  the  Hebrew  text, 
“princes  of  the  king”  (fjb'art  •'?“),  though  this  is 
omitted  by  the  Sept,  and  by  Josephus.  Gedaliah  en- 
tertained them  at  a feast  (xli,  1).  According  to  the 
statement  of  Josephus,  this  was  a very  lavish  entertain- 
ment, and  Gedaliah  became  much  intoxicated.  It  must 
have  been  a private  one,  for  before  its  close  lshmael  and 
his  followers  had  murdered  Gedaliah  and  all  his  attend- 
ants with  such  secrecy  that  no  alarm  was  given  outside 
the  room.  The  same  night  he  killed  all  Gedaliah’s 
establishment,  including  some  Chaldsean  soldiers  who 
were  there.  Jeremiah  appears  fortunately  to  have  been 
absent,  and,  incredible  as  it  seems,  so  well  had  lshmael 
taken  his  precautions,  that  for  two  days  the  massacre 
remained  perfectly  unknown  to  the  people  of  the  town. 
On  the  second  day  lshmael  perceived  from  his  elevated 
position  a large  party  coming  southwards  along  the 
main  road  from  Sheehcm  and  Samaria.  He  went  out 
to  meet  them.  They  proved  to  be  eighty  devotees, 
who,  with  rent  clothes,  and  with  shaven  beards,  muti- 
lated bodies,  and  other  marks  of  heathen  devotion,  and 
weeping  (Sept.)  as  they  went,  were  bringing  incense  and 
offerings  to  the  ruins  of  the  Temple.  At  his  invitation 
they  turned  aside  to  the  residence  of  the  superintend- 
ent. Here  lshmael  put  into  practice  the  same  strata- 
gem which,  on  a larger  scale,  was  employed  by  Mehe- 
met  Ali  in  the  massacre  of  the  Mamelukes  at  Cairo  in 
1806.  As  the  unsuspecting  pilgrims  passed  v ithin  the 
outer  gates  (Sept,  court-yard)  he  closed  the  entrances 
behind  them,  and  there  he  and  his  band  butchered  the 
whole  number:  ten  only  escaped  by  the  offer  of  heavy 


688 


ISHPAN 


ISIDIAEL 


ransom  for  their  lives.  The  seventy  corpses  were  then 
thrown  into  the  well,  which  (as  in  the  Sepoy  massacre 
at  Cawnpore)  was  within  the  precincts  of  the  house, 
and  which  was  completely  filled  with  the  bodies.  It 
was  the  same  thing  that  had  been  done  by  Jehu— a I 
man  in  some  respects  a prototype  of  Ishmael,  with  the 
bodies  of  the  forty-two  relatives  of  Ahaziah  (2  Kings  x, 
14).  This  done,  he  descended  to  the  town,  surprised 
and*  carried  off  the  daughters  of  king  Zedekiah,  who 
had  been  sent  there  by  Nebuchadnezzar  for  safety,  with 
their  eunuchs  and  their  Chaldiean  guard  (Jcr.  xli,  10, 
10),  and  all  the  people  of  the  town,  and  made  off  with 
his  prisoners  to  the  country  of  the  Ammonites.  Which 
road  he  took  is  not  quite  clear;  the  Hebrew  text  and 
Sept,  say  by  Gibeon,  that  is  north ; but  Josephus,  by 
Hebron,  round  the  southern  end  of  the  Dead  Sea.  The 
news  of  the  massacre  had  by  this  time  got  abroad,  and 
Ishmael  was  quickly  pursued  by  Johanan  and  his  com- 
panions. Whether  north  or  south,  they  soon  tracked 
him  and  his  unwieldy  booty,  and  found  them  reposing 
by  some  copious  waters  (C'S  j E""C).  He  was  attack- 
ed, two  of  his  bravoes  slain,  the  whole  of  the  prey  re- 
covered, and  Ishmael  himself,  with  the  remaining  eight 
of  his  people,  escaped  to  the  Ammonites,  and  thence- 
forward passes  into  the  obscurity  from  which  it  would 
have  been  well  if  he  had  never  emerged.  Johanan’s 
foreboding  was  Mailed.  The  result  of  this  tragedy 
was  an  immediate  panic.  The  small  remnants  of  the 
Jewish  commonwealth— the  captains  of  the  forces,  the 
king’s  daughters,  the  two  prophets  Jeremiah  and  Ba- 
ruch, and  all  the  men,  women,  and  children  — at  once 
took  flight  into  Egypt  (Jer.  xli,  17 ; xliii,  5-7),  and  all 
hopes  of  a settlement  were  for  the  time  at  an  end.  The 
remembrance  of  the  calamity  was  perpetuated  by  a fast 
— the  fast  of  the  seventh  month  (Zech.  vii,  5;  viii,  19), 
which  is  to  this  day  strictly  kept  by  the  Jews  on  the 
third  of  Tisri.  (See  Belaud,  A niiq.  iv,  10:  Kimclii  on 
Zech.  vii,  5).  The  part  taken  by  Baalis  in  this  trans- 
action apparently  brought  upon  his  nation  the  denun- 
ciations both  of  Jeremiah  (xlix,  1-6)  and  the  more  dis- 
tant Ezekiel  (xxv,  1-7),  but  we  have  no  record  to  show 
how  these  predictions  were  accomplished. — Smith.  See 
Geijauah. 

6.  One  of  the  “sons”  of  Pashur,  who  divorced  his 
Gentile  wife  after  the  Exile  (Ezra  x,  22).  B.C.  459. 


Ishmael,  somewhat  like  the  twelve  sons  of  Jacob,  be- 
came so  many  heads  of  tribes  (Gen.  xxv,  13-15),  which 
implies  that  in  the  next  generation  they  spread  them- 
selves pretty  widely  abroad.  It  appears  (Gen.  xxv,  18) 
that  the  head-quarters  of  the  race  lay  in  the  northern 
parts  of  the  Arabian  peninsula;  but  in  process  of  time 
they  would  naturally  stretch  more  inland,  eastward  and 
southward.  That  they  also  extended  their  journeying 
northwards  is  evident  from  the  fact  that  the  brethren 
of  Joseph  espied  “a  company  of  Islimaelites  coming 
from  Gilead,  with  their  camels  bearing  spicerv,  and  balm, 
and  myrrh,  to  carry  it  down  to  Egypt”  (Gen.  xxxvii, 
25).  The  company  has  afterwards  the  name  of  Midian- 
ites  applied  to  it  (ver.  28),  probably  on  account  of  its 
consisting  of  more  than  one  class  of  people,  Midianites 
also  in  part ; but  being  first  called  Islimaelites,  we  can 
have  no  reasonable  doubt  that  these  formed  a consider- 
able portion  of  the  caravan  party.  The  trade  of  inland 
carriers  between  the  countries  in  the  north  of  Africa  on 
the  one  side,  and  those  in  southern  and  western  Asia 
(India,  Persia,  Babylonia,  etc.)  on  the  other,  is  one  in 
which  sections  of  the  Ishmaelitish  race  have  been  known 
from  the  remotest  times  to  take  a part.  It  suited  their 
migratory  and  unsettled  habits;  and  they  became  so 
noted  for  it,  that  others,  who  did  not  belong  to  the  same 
race,  were  not  nnfrequently  called  Ishmaelites,  merely 
because  they  followed  the  Ishmaelitic  traffic  and  man- 
ners. It  is  impossible  to  say  how  far  the  descendants 
of  Ishmael  penetrated  into  Arabia,  or  acquired  settle- 
ments in  its  southern  and  more  productive  regions.  As 
it  is  certain  the  Ishmaelitish  mode  of  life  has  been  al- 
ways less  practised  there,  and  a modified  civilization  is 
of  old  standing,  the  probability  is  that  the  population 
in  those  regions  has  little  in  it  of  Ishmaelitish  blood. 
But,  with  all  their  regard  to  genealogies,  the  Arabic 
races  have  for  thousands  of  years  been  so  transfused 
into  each  other,  that  all  distinct  landmarks  are  wellnigh 
lost.  The  circumstance  of  Mohammed  having,  for  pru- 
dential reasons,  claimed  to  be  a descendant  of  the  son 
of  Abraham,  has  led  to  an  extension  of  the  Ishmaelitish 
circle  far  beyond  what  the  probable  facts  will  bear  out” 
(Fairbairn).  See  Ishmael,  1. 

Ishma'i'ah  (ITeb.  Yishmayah ',  and  in  1 

j Chron.  xxvii,  19  in  the  paragogic  form  Yishmaya'hu, 
heard  by  Jehovah),  the  name  of  two  of  Da- 


Ishmael  (as  a later  name).  See  Ismael. 

Ish'maelite  (Heb.  Yishmeeli ',  "'bxEE'G"',  1 Chron. 
ii,  17 ; xxviii.  3,  etc.,  plur.  usually  Anglicized 

“ Ishmeelitcs,”  q.  v.),  a descendant  of  Ishmael,  the  son  1 
of  Abraham  by  Ilagar.  Ishmaelites  carried  on  a traffic  | 
with  Egypt  (Gen.  xxxvii,  25, 27 ; xxxix;  1),  and  lived 
a wandering  life  as  nomades  at  the  eastward  of  the  He- 
brews and  of  Egypt  as  far  as  to  the  Persian  Gulf  and 
Assyria,  i.  e.  Babylonia  (Gen.  xxv,  18),  which  same  lim- 
its are  elsewhere  assigned  to  the  Amalekites  (1  Sam.  xv, 
7);  so  also  the  names  “Islimaelites”  and  “Midianites” 
appear  to  be  sometimes  applied  to  the  same  people  (Gen. 
xxxvii,  25, 27, 28 ; ,)udg.  viii,  22, 24).  In  Gen.  xxv,  18, 
it  is  said,  “And  they  dwelt  from  ITavilah  unto  Shur, 
that  is  before  Egypt,  as  thou  goest  towards  Assyria: 
ami  lie  died  in  the  presence  of  all  his  brethren.”  As 
Ishmacl’s  death  had  already  been  mentioned,  and  as  the 
Hebrew  term  naphal — rendered  uhe  died,”  properly 

he  fell — is  seldom  used  in  the  Scriptures  iu  reference  to 
“ dying,”  except  in  cases  of  sudden  and  violent  death,  as 
when  one  “ falls”  iu  battle,  the  probability  is  that  na- 
phal here  signifies  that  his  territory  or  possession,#//  to 
him  in  the  presence  of  all  his  brethren,  or  immediately 
contiguous  to  the  borders  of  the  territories  in  which  the 
various  tribes  descended  from  Abraham  or  Terali  had 
settled — the  Israelites,  Edomites,  Midianitcs,  Moabites, 
Ammonites,  etc.  This  interpretation  is  countenanced 
by  the  Sept,  and  Targums,  which  have  dwelt,  and  by  the 
promise  in  Gen.  xvi,  12  (comp,  the  similar  phraseology 
in  Josh,  xxiii,  4;  Psa.  xvi,  6).  “The  twelve  sons  of 


vid’s  officers.  See  David. 

1.  (Sept.  Sapaiag,  Yulg.  Samajas,  Auth.  Vers.  “ Is- 
rnaiah.”)  A Gibeonite,  one  of  the  chiefs  of  those  war- 
riors who  relinquished  the  cause  of  Saul,  the  head  of 
their  tribe,  and  joined  themselves  to  David  when  he 
was  at  Ziklag  (1  Chron.  xii,  4).  B.C.  1046.  lie  is  de- 
scribed as  “a  hero  (gibbor ) among  the  thirty  and  over 
the  thirty”  — i.  e.  David’s  body-guard:  but  his  name 
does  not  appear  in  the  lists  of  the  guard  in  2 Sam.  xxiii 
and  1 Chron.  xi.  Possibly  he  was  killed  in  some  en- 
counter before  David  reached  the  throne. — Smith. 

2.  (Sept.  'S.apaiaq,  Yulg.  Jesmajas,  Auth. Vers.  “Ish- 
maiah.”)  Son  of  Obadiali,  and  viceroy  of  Zebulon  un- 
der David  and  Solomon  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  19).  B.C.  1014. 

Xsh'meelite  occurs  in  the  A.Y.  at  Gen.  xxxvii,  25, 
27,  28;  xxix,  1,  as  a general  name  of  the  Abrahamic 
peoples  of  the  “ east  country”  or  Bene-Kedem  (q.  v.) ; 
but  elsewhere  (1  Chron.  ii,  17)  in  the  strict  sense  of  the 
proper  Ishmaelites  (as  Anglicized  in  Judg.  viii,  24 ; 
Psa.  lxxxiii,  G),  with  which  the  Ileb.  name  corresponds. 

Ish'merai  (Heb.  Yishmeray',  for 

preserved  by  Jehovah  ; Septuag.  ’Itaapapt),  one  of  the 
“sons”  of  Elpaal,  a chief  Benjamite  resident  at  Jerusa- 
lem (l  Chron.  viii,  18).  B.C.  ante  588. 

I'shod  (Heb.  Ishhod “liPVwpX,  man  of  splendor,  i. 
e.  in  countenance  or  in  fame;  Sept,  simply  Zout^Yulg. 
translates  rir  decor  us),  a son  of  Hammoleketh,  the  sis- 
ter of  Macliir  of  Gilead  (1  Chron.  vii,  18).  B.C.  cir.  1658. 

Ish'pan  (Heb.  Yishpan',  “jSwj?,  prob.  hid,  but  Ge- 
senius  bald,  Fiirst  strong;  Sept.  ’lto<pav,Yvilg.  Jes})ham\ 


t 


ISHTOB  687  ISIDORE 


one  of  the  “ sons”  of  Shashak,  a Benjamite  chief  resident 
at  Jernsalem  (I  Chron.  viii,  22).  B.C.  ante  588. 

Ish'-tob  (Heb.  Ish-T6b’,  nilT'CrX,  man  of  Tab  [i.  e. 
good]  ; Sept.  T<yrw/3  ; Josephus  ’'lurojfioc ; Vulg.  Istob), 
apparently  one  of  the  small  kingdoms  or  states  which 
formed  part  of  the  general  country  of  Aram,  named  with 
Zobali,  Behob,  and  Maacah  (2  Sam.  x,  6,  8).  In  the 
parallel  account  of  I Chron.  xix  Islitob  is  omitted.  By 
Josephus  {Ant.  vii,  G,  1)  the  name  is  given  as  that  of  a 
king.  But  though  in  the  ancient  versions  the  name  is 
given  as  one  word,  it  is  probable  that  the  real  significa- 
tion is  “the  men  of  Tob”  (q.  v.),  a district  mentioned 
also  in  connection  with  Ammon  in  the  records  of  Jeph- 
thah  (Jiulg.  xi,  3, 5),  and  again,  perhaps,  under  the  shape 
of  Tobie  or  Tubikxi,  in  the  history  of  the  Maccabees 
(l  Macc.  v,  13 ; 2 Macc.  xii,  17).— Smith. 

Ish'uah  (Heb.  Yishvah',  ni2i%  uniform ; Septuag. 
’Ifffooa,  but  ’leooovci  in  Gen.;  Yulg../ftwu),  the  second 
named  of  the  sons  of  Asher  (Gen.  xlvi,  17;  1 Chron.  vii, 
30,  in  which  latter  passage  it  is  Anglicized  “ fsuah”). 
B.C.  I85G.  He  appears  to  have  left  no  issue  (compare 
Numb,  xxvi,  44). 

Ish'uai  (l  Chron.  vii,  30).  See  Isiiui,  1. 

Ish'ui  (Heb.  Yishvi',  uniform),  the  name  of 

two  men. 

1.  (Sept,  in  Gen.  xlvi,  17,  T**>\  ; Vulg.  Jessui,  Auth. 
Vers.  “Isni;”  in  Numb. xxvi, 44,’If<Toi'/, . /esstti,  “Jesui;” 
in  I Chron.  vii, 30,  ’lrjooui,  Jessui,  “ Ishnai”).  The  third 
named  of  the  sons  of  Asher,  and  founder  of  a family  that 
bore  his  name  (“  Jesuites,”  Numb,  xxvi,  44).  B.C.  185G. 

2.  (Septuag.  ’itooovi,  Josephus  ’ittioot,*,  Ant.  vi.  G,  G; 
Vulg.  Jessui,  Auth.  Vers.  “Isliui”).  The  second  named 
of  the  three  oldest  sons  of  king  Saul  (I  Sam.  xiv,  40) ; 
probably  the  same  with  Abinadab  (1  Sam.  xxxi,  2; 
comp.  I Chron.  viii,  33).  See  Isit-bosiietu. 

Isidore  of  Alexandria,  St.,  was  born  in  Egypt 
about  the  year  318,  and  led  lor  a time  the  life  of  a her- 
mit in  the  wilderness  of  the  Thebaul  and  in  the  desert 
of  Nitria.  St.  Athanasius  ordained  him  priest,  and  gave 
him  the  charge  of  a hospital,  whence  Isidore  is  also  call- 
ed the  Hospitaller.  After  the  death  of  Athanasius,  Isi- 
dore courageously  defended  his  works  and  his  memory 
against  the  attacks  of  the  Arians.  Having  got  into  dif- 
ficulties with  Theopliilus,  patriarch  of  Alexandria,  Isi- 
dore was  obliged  to  flee  to  Constantinople,  where  he 
died  in  403.  The  Greek  Church  commemorates  him  on 
the  loth  of  January.  See  Palladios,  Hist.  Lansiaca ; 
Iloefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gene  rale,  xvi,  5G.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Isidore,  St.,  bishop  of  Cordova,  and  an  eminent 
Spanish  theologian  and  historian,  who  flourished  in  the 
4th  century,  is  supposed  to  have  died  about  380.  The 
chronicle  of  Flaw  Dexter  mentions  him  as  having  con- 
tinued St.  Jerome’s  Chronicou  to  the  year  380;  Sigebert 
de  Gembloux  attributes  to  him  also  a Commentarius  in 
Orosii  Libros  Regum ; but  Florez  and  Antonio  show 
good  grounds  for  discrediting  this  assertion.  Antonio 
even  gives  very  strong  reasons  for  considering  this  Isi- 
dore an  imaginary  individual,  as  well  as  another  Isi- 
dore, likewise  supposed  to  have  been  bishop  of  Cordova 
in  400-430,  whom  Dexter  considers  to  be  the  author  of 
a Liber  Allegoriarum  and  a Commentarius  in  Lueam. 
See  Bivarius,  Xotee  ad  Dextrum;  Antonio,  Bibliotheca 
JHspaua  retus,  i,  249;  Fabricius,  Bib/.  Med.  et  Infirm 
Latinitatis ; Iloefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvi,  5G.  (J.  , 

n.p.) 

Isidore  Mercator  (or  Peccator),  the  supposed 
name  of  a compiler  who,  towards  the  middle  of  the  9tli 
century,  published  the  famous  collection  of  canons 
known  as  the  Psendo-Isidorian.  See  Canons;  Decre- 
tals. It  is  pretty  generally  conceded  that  this  writer 
lived  in  the  dominions  of  Charles  the  Bald,  but  his  real 
name  is  a matter  of  doubt.  As  for  his  collection,  it  is 
evidently  based  on  that  of  Isidore  of  Seville,  numerous 
copies  of  which  were  at  the  time  circulating  in  France ; 
but  it  contains  besides  a vast  number  of  apocryphal  ad- 


ditions. Some  of  these  pieces  had  already  been  in  eir-» 
dilation  for  years,  and  they  were  not  all  made  up  by 
the  Pseudo-Isidore.  The  collection  of  capitularies  of 
Benedict  Levita,  a deacon  of  Mayence  (who  has  by 
some  been  considered  as  the  author  of  the  Pseudo-Isido* 
rian  collection),  which  was  written  about  840,  contains 
already  numerous  extracts  of  the  fictitious  documents 
of  the  work  of  Mercator.  They  circulated  at  first  only 
in  Southern  France.  They  remained  unknown  in  Spain 
until  the  16th  century,  and  in  Germany  and  Italy  but 
few  copies  of  them  are  to  be  found.  They  are  compiled 
from  the  histories  of  Ruiinus  and  Cassiodorus,  the  Liber 
Pontificalis,  the  works  of  the  fathers,  decisions  of  the 
councils,  regular  decretals,  the  Bible  (which,  according 
to  Richter,  he  quotes  from  the  Vulgate,  revised  by 
Rhabanus  Maurus),  and,  finally,  the  Roman  law,  of 
which  he  possessed  a compendium  in  the  Visigoth  lan- 
guage. These  two  latter  circumstances  go  far  to  prove 
that  the  writer  must  have  been  either  a native,  or  at 
least,  at  the  time,  a resident  of  France.  Mavenee  has 
sometimes  been  considered  as  the  place  where  the  pseu- 
do-decretals were  written,  and  Ricnlf  or  Otgar,  arch- 
bishops of  that  city,  or  even  Benedict  Levita,  above  al- 
luded to,  as  their  author;  but  this  seems  unlikely,  the 
more  since  Rhabanus  Maurus,  who  succeeded  Otgar  in 
847,  appears  entirely  unacquainted  with  their  existence. 
It  must  have  been  written  about  the  middle  of  the  9th 
century,  for  it  contains  the  decrees  of  the  council  held 
at  Paris  in  829,  shows  a knowledge  of  Rhabanus  ^Ian- 
nis’s work  against  the  clior-bishops  written  in  847-849, 
and  was  first  made  public  at  the  Synod  of  Chiersy  in 
857.  The  history  of  this  collection  has  never  been  fully 
traced  out ; much  may  perhaps  be  done  for  it  by  a care- 
ful comparison  of  the  numerous  MS.  copies  of  it  which 
are  still  extant.  Among  these  copies,  one  of  the  most 
important  is  the  Codex  Yuticunus,  No.  G30,  written  in 
858-8G7.  It  is  thought  that  the  Capitula  Angilramni, 
another  apocryphal  document  of  canon  law,  must  also 
be  considered  as  the  work  of  the  so-called  Isidore  M cr- 
eator. See,  besides  the  works  already  referred  to  under 
Decretals,  Centuriatores,  Eeclesiustiea  historia,  vol. 
vi,  cap.  vii,  and  vol.  iii,  cap.  vii ; Blondel,  Pseudo-Isido- 
rus  et  Turnanus  vapulanfes ; Van  Espen,  I)e  Collectio- 
ne  Isulori,  Opera,  vol.  iii ; Zaccaria,  .4  ntifebronio,  vol.  i, 
diss.  iii;  Spittler,  Gesch.  des  canonischen  Rechts,  p.  243; 
Kunstmann,  Fragmente  viber  Pseudo-Isidor  (Neue  Sion, 
1855);  Gfrorer,  Untersnehung.iiber  Alter.  Ur  sprung  und 
Zweok  d.  Dekretalen  d.falschen  Isidorus  (Friburg,  1848) ; 
Same,  Gesch.d.  Carolinger,  i,  71 ; Rosshirt, Zu  den  Kirch- 
enrechtliehen  Quelle n u.  z.  den  Pseudo- Isidorisehen  Decre- 
talen  (Heidelberg,  1849) ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate, 
xvi,  71 ; Milman,  Latin  Christianity,  ii,  370  sq.;  Herzog, 
Rea l-Eacyklop.  xii,  337 ; Ilefcle,  in  Wetzer  und  Vfelte, 
Kirchen-Lex.  viii,  859.  (J.  1 1 . W.) 

Isidore  of  Moscow,  a distinguished  Russian  bish- 
op, was  born  at  Thcssalonica  towards  the  close  of  the 
14tli  century.  He  became  successively  archimandrite 
of  the  convent  of  St.Demitri  at  Constantinople,  coadju- 
tor of  the  archbishop  of  Illyria,  and,  finally  (in  1437), 
metropolitan  bishop  of  Russia.  In  this  capacity  he  at- 
tended, at  the  head  of  a hundred  Russian  bishops  and 
priests,  the  Council  of  Florence,  at  which  the  union  of 
the  Latin  and  Greek  churches  was  effected.  See  Flor- 
ence, Council  of.  Isidore  and  Bessarion  played  the 
most  important  part  in  that  council.  In  June,  1439, 
having  fulfilled  his  task,  he  returned  to  Moscow  to  pro- 
claim the  news.  But  the  grand  duke  Vasili,  who  was 
displeased  with  the  results  of  the  council,  had  him 
thrown  into  prison,  and  condemned  to  be  burned  alive ; 
but  on  the  day  appointed  for  the  execution  he  made  his 
escape,  and  fled  to  Rome,  where  Eugene  IV  welcomed 
him  as  a martyr.  As  the  union  effected  by  the  Council 
of  Florence  in"  1439  was  of  very  short  duration,  Isidore 
was  selected  by  the  Roman  pontiff,  Nicholas  V,  as  mes- 
senger to  Constantinople,  to  attempt  again  a union  of 
the  churches,  but  in  this  mission  he  failed.  Isidore  died 
at  Rome  April  27,  1463.  Having  witnessed  the  estab- 


688 


ISIS 


ISIDORE 

lishmcnt  of  Islamism  at  Constantinople,  he  gave  an  ac- 
count of  it  in  two  letters,  one  of  which  was  published  in 
ihc  Lettres  7’«r?uesofReisner,vol.iv;  the  second,  which 
is  dated  Candia,  July  7,  1453,  was  never  printed,  and  is 
probably  contained  in  the  Riecardini  Library  at  Flor- 
ence. Some  Russian  annalists,  especially  -Nikon,  give 
extracts  of  some  of  his  sermons  and  mandaments.  See 
Nannmnitkre  sckoba  Opcoba ; Drevnaia  Rosjeiskaia  Bib- 
lioteca,  vol.  xi;  Stralil,  Der  Russische  Metropolit  Isidor 
u.  sein  Versa  ch  d.  russisch-grieckische  Kirche  mit  d.Rd- 
7ii itch -Ka tolisch en  zn  vereinen  (Tubingen,  1823)  ; Claco- 
nii  et  Oldoini  Vita:  et  Res  gesta?  Pontifcum  et  Cardina- 
Uum  (Roma?,  1677),  ii,  903 ; Statuta  Concilii  Florentim 
(Florence,  1518);  Maimbourg,  Histoire  du  Schisme  des 
Great ; Theiner,  Vicissitudes  de  VEglisc  en  Pologne  et  en 
Russie,  i,  33 ; Uoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generale,  xxvi,  73 ; 
Neale’s  History  of  the  Council  of  Florence,  p.  59;  Covel, 
Account  of  the  Greek  Church , p.  117. 

Isidore  of  Pklusium  (or  Pelusiota),  St.,  an  eccle- 
siastical writer,  was  born  at  Alexandria  about  the  year 
370.  lie  spent  his  life  in  the  neighborhood  of  Pelusi- 
um,  in  a monastery  of  which  he  was  abbot,  and  wrhere 
he  practised  strict  asceticism.  He  was  a great  admirer 
of  St.  Chrysostom,  of  whom,  according  to  some,  he  w'as 
a pupil,  and  whom  he  defended  against  the  attacks  of 
the  patriarchs  of  Alexandria,  Thcophilus  and  Cyril.  In 
the  controversy  waged  by  Cyril  against  Nestorius,  Isi- 
dorus  Pelusiota  favored  the  Cyrillian  party,  his  counsels 
of  moderation  contrasting  greatly  with  the  passion  and 
ambition  of  Cyril,  lie  was  a firm  adherent  to  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Greek  Church,  and  vigorously  opposed  all 
heretical  inroads.  Of  his  writings,  which  “discuss, 
with  learning,  piety,  judgment,  and  moderation,  nearly 
all  the  theological  and  practical  questions  of  his  age,” 
there  remain  to  us  yet  a collection  of  his  letters,  forming 
live  volumes,  though  they  are  probably  not  all  (there 
are  more  than  2000  of  them)  his  own.  These  letters  treat 
almost  all  on  the  interpretation  of  Scripture.  The  first 
three  volumes  wrere  published,  with  a Latin  translation 
and  notes,  by  J.  de  Billy  (Paris,  1585,  fol.),  and  reprint- 
ed, together  with  the  fourth  volume,  by  Conrad  Rittors- 
hausen  (lleidelb.  1605,  fol.),  and  the  fifth  by  the  Jesuit 
Schott  (Antw.  1623,  8vo).  A complete,  though  rather 
faulty  edition  was  finally  published  at  Paris  in  1638, 
folio,  and  in  JMigne’s  edition  of  the  fathers,  vol.  lviii 
(Paris,  1860).  See  Pliotius,  Bibliotheca  (cod.  228,  232); 
Schrockh,  Christliche  Kirchengesch.  xvii,  520, 529;  Heu- 
mann,  Dissertatio  de  Isidoro  Pelusiota  ejusque  epistolis 
(Gottingen,  1737,  4to):  Fabrieius,  Bibliotheca  Greeca,  x, 
480,  494 ; 1 1.  A.  Niemever,  Be  Isid.  Pel.  vita,  scriptis  et 
doctriva  (Halle.  1825);  Tillemont,  Mem.  Ecclesiastiques, 
vol.  xv.;  Du  Pin,  Xouv,  Bibl.  des  aut.  cedes,  iv,  5 sq. ; 
( 'eillier,  /list,  des  ant.  sac.  xiii,  600  sq. ; Neander,  Kirch- 
engesch.  ii,  2, 361  sq. ; Sclialf,  Ch.  Hist,  iii,  941 ; Herzog, 
Real-Kncyklop.  vii,  85;  Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biogr.  Genei'ale, 
xxvi,  57. 

Isidore  of  Seville,  or  Isinoitus  IIispauensis, 
surnnmed  also  “the  young"  to  distinguish  him  from  Isi- 
dore of  Cordova,  one  of  the  most  distinguished  ecclesi- 
astics of  the  7th  century,  was  bom  at  Carthagena  about 
the  year  560  or  570.  lie  was  a son  of  Sevorianus  and 
Theodora,  and  brother  of  St.  Leandcr,  his  predecessor  in 
the  bishopric  of  Seville,  and  of  St.  Fulgent  ins,  bishop  of 
Carthage.  He  was  brought  up  by  his  brother  Leandcr, 
and  it  was  therefore  natural  that  he  should  have  been 
favored  in  the  selection  of  a successor  for  the  bishopric 
of  Seville,  but  it  was  not  principally  owing  to  his  rela- 
tionship to  Leandcr  that  he  w'as  honored  with  this  dis- 
tinguished position.  II is  abilities  fully  entitled  him  to 
this  distinction.  When  he  ascended  to  the  bishopric 
the  Goths  had  been  masters  of  Spain  for  a century  and 
a half.  The  north  and  west  of  Europe  were  shrouded 
in  moral  darkness.  Germany,  occupied  by  a number  of 
adverse  tribes,  was  yet  given  to  idolatry;  Sweden,  Nor- 
way, Denmark,  Scotland,  were  almost  unknown;  Eng- 
land and  Ireland  had  just  received  the  first  faint  glimpse 
of  Christianity;  France  was  torn  by  the  dissensions  of 


petty  monarchs,  and  the  East  itself  w'as  on  the  eve  of 
the  inroads  of  Mohammedanism.  To  counteract  these 
influences,  and  to  build  up  the  Christian  faith  among 
his  countrymen,  was  his  first  care.  To  this  end  he  es- 
tablished schools  to  properly  train  the  young,  entered 
into  closer  relations  with  the  bishop  of  Rome  (Gregory 
the  Great),  and  made  every  effort  to  bring  the  doctrinal 
and  moral  system  of  Christianity  into  harmony  with  the 
habits  and  institutions  of  those  various  races  and  na- 
tionalities which  at  that  time  composed  the  Ilispano- 
Gothic  kingdom ; and  so  successful  was  he  in  his  efforts 
that  he  is  considered  one  of  the  brightest  ornaments  of 
the  Church  of  Spain.  His  abilities  were  further  recog- 
nised by  his  contemporaries  in  permitting  him  to  pre- 
side over  the  two  Councils — half  ecclesiastical,  half  civil 
— of  Seville  (619)  and  Toledo  (Dec.,  633).  On  both  oc- 
casions he  should  great  zeal  for  the  orthodox  side,  and 
strict  opposition  to  all  heretical  manifestations;  espe- 
cially, hovrever,  was  he  opposed  to  Arianism.  So  able 
was  the  conduct  of  Isidore  at  these  councils  that  the 
canons  of  them  may  be  said  to  have  served  as  a basis 
even  for  the  constitutional  law  of  the  Spanish  kingdom, 
both  in  Church  and  State,  down  to  the  time  of  the  great 
constitutional  changes  of  the  15th  century.  Isidore  of 
Seville  died  at  Seville  April  4,  G36,  and  was  canonized 
by  the  Church  soon  after  his  death.  We  have  but  few 
particulars  of  his  life  from  his  writings,  except  that  in 
a letter,  about  the  authenticity  of  which  there  is  much 
doubt,  he  invites  some  bishop  to  join  him  in  a synod  to 
depose  the  bishop  of  Cordova  for  luxuriousness  and 
w'orldliness.  The  great  reputation  which  Isidore  en- 
joyed among  his  colleagues  may  be  best  inferred  from 
the  fathers  of  the  8th  Council  of  Toledo,  who  call  him 
Doctor  egregius , ecclesiee  catkoliece  novissimum , decus, 
preecedentibus  (date  postremus,  doctrince  comparcitione 
non  inf  nuts,  atque,et  quod  majus  est,jam  serculorwm  fini- 
torum  doctissimus,  cum  reverentia  nominandus,  Isidorus. 
According  to  the  testimony  of  his  disciple.  St.Ildefonse, 
he  was  a man  of  wonderful  eloquence.  The  same  au- 
thority names  him  as  the  author  of  De  Genere  Offici- 
orum  (generally  called  De  Officiis  ecclesiasticis ),  Liber 
Procemioinm : — De  Ortu  et  Obitu  Patrum  (sanctorum)  ; 
— Liber  Synonymorum  (sive  lamentationis) : — De  Xatu- 
ra  rerwn : — I Alter  Senteniiarum  : — Liber  Ftymologiarum 
(jOrigines'),  probably  the  last  work  of  Isidore.  The  first 
edition  of  his  works,  which  display  very  extensive 
learning,  and  cover  the  various  departments  of  litera- 
ture— theological,  ascetical,  liturgical,  scriptural,  his- 
torical, philosophical,  and  even  philological — and  thus 
amply  account  for  the  admiration  of  his  contemporaries, 
wras  published  by  Michael  Somnius  (Paris,  1580,  folio); 
another,  very  complete,  was  taken  principally  from  the 
MSS.  of  Alvar.  Gomez,  and  augmented  by  notes  by  J. 
B.  Perez  and  Grial  (Madrid,  1599.  2 vols.  fol.).  The  edi- 
tion of  James  Dubreuil  (Paris,  1601,  folio)  and.  that  of 
Cologne  (1667)  are  taken  from  that  of  Madrid.  The 
latest,  which  is  also  considered  the  best,  is  due  to  Are- 
voli  (Rome,  1797-1803,  7 vols.  4to).  See  St.Ildefonse, 
De  J 'iris  Illustribus;  Sigebert  de  Gembloux,  De  Script. 
Ecclesiast.  (c.  55) ; Tritheim,  De  Script.  Eccles.;  M'Crie, 
Reformation  in  Spain,  p.  52;  Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gener. 
xxvi,  57  sq.;  Chambers,  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Herzog,  Rtul-En- 
cyklop.  vii,  89  sq. ; Smith,  Diet,  of  Class.  Biography,  ii, 
627  sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Isidorus  Hispaliexsis.  See  Isidoiie  of  Se- 
ville. 

Isis  (TImc),  an  Egyptian  deity,  sister  and  wife  of 
Osiris  (q.  v.),  is  called  by  the  Egyptians  IBs,  and  is  by 
them  said  to  have  been  born  on  the  4th  day  of  the  Epa- 
gomena?,  or  five  days  added  to  the  Egyptian  year  of 
360  days.  The  history  of  the  w'orship  of  Isis  is  very 
obscure,  all  the  information  we  possess  on  the  subject 
being  derived  from  Greek  w'riters.  Tradition  said  that 
her  brother  Osiris  having  married  her,  they  together 
undertook  the  task  of  civilizing  men,  and  taught  them 
agriculture;  their  marriage  produced  Horns.  Their  oth- 
er brother,  Typhon,  being  at  enmity  with  them. succeed- 


ISIS 


689 


ISITES 


ed  once  in  surprising  Osiris,  murdered  him,  and  depos- 
ited the  body  in  a box,  which  he  threw  into  the  sea 
(Nile).  Isis,  while  wandering  about  in  mourning,  seek- 
ing Osiris,  heard  that  Osiris,  before  his  departure,  had 
been  enamored  with  her  sister  Neplithys,  who  had  had 
a son,  now  abandoned  by  the  mother  for  fear  of  Typhon. 
By  the  aid  of  some  dogs  Isis  succeeded  in  discovering 
that  son,  Anubes  by  name;  she  at  once  adopted  him, 
and  brought  him  up,  and  he  became  her  faithful  follow- 
er. In  the  mean  time,  the  box  containing  Osiris  drifted 
in  the  sea  towards  Byblos,  in  Phoenicia,  and  was  arrest- 
ed by  a bush,  which  soon  grew  into  a tree,  the  box  re- 
maining inclosed  in  the  wood.  The  king  of  Byblos 
caused  a column  to  be  made  of  this  tree  for  his  palace. 
Isis  hastened  thither  to  investigate  the  rumor,  and,  to 
avoid  recognition,  offered  her  services  to  the  queen  as 
nurse.  At  nightfall  she  put  one  of  the  children  placed 
under  her  care  in  the  fire,  to  divest  it  of  all  that  was 
mortal,  while  she  herself,  in  the  form  of  a swallow,  flew 
around  the  column  which  contained  Osiris.  The  queen, 
seeing  her  child  in  the  fire,  cried  out  loudly,  and  thus 
deprived  him  of  immortality.  The  goddess  now  reveal- 
ed herself  amidst  thunder  and  lightning,  and  at  one 
blow  broke  down  the  column,  out  of  which  the  box  con- 
taining Osiris  fell.  This  she  carried  to  her  son  Horns, 
who  had  been  brought  up  in  Butos,  and  he  hid  it.  Ty- 
phon, however,  discovered  it,  recognised  the  body,  and 
tore  it  into  14  pieces  (according  to  others,  into  ’20  or  28 
pieces).  By  means  of  magic,  Isis  succeeded  in  gather- 
ing all  these  pieces  with  the  exception  of  the  genitals, 
to  replace  which  she  made  artificial  ones.  This  is  the 
reason  why  the  Egyptians  considered  the  Phallus  as  sa- 
cred. The  body  was  now  interred  at  Phils?,  which  be- 
came the  principal  burial-place  of  the  Egyptians.  Osi- 
ris, however,  returned  from  Hades  to  educate  his  son, 
and  Isis  bore  him  again  another  son,  llarpocrates.  As, 
however,  she  allowed  Typhon,  who  had  been  captured 
by  Horns,  and  whom  she  was  to  have  killed,  to  escape, 
llorus  took  the  crown  from  her,  and  in  its  place  Hermes 
placed  bulls’  horns  on  her  head,  since  which  Isis  has  gen- 
erally been  represented  under  the  form  of  a woman  with 
the  horns  of  a cow.  Isis  was  originally  for  the  Egyp- 
tian a personification  of  the  valley  of  the  Nile,  fecun- 
dated by  Osiris,  the  god  of  the  Nile.  In  after  times, 
when,  under  the  influence  of  foreign  notions,  Osiris  came 
to  be  considered  as  the  god  of  the  sun,  Isis  was  trans- 
formed into  the  goddess  of  the  moon,  and  consequently 
as  a friendly  and  life-imparting  deity.  She  was  also 
considered  as  the  goddess  of  the  lower  world,  of  which 
she  was  said  to  hold  the  keys,  and  to  be  the  rider  and 
judge.  She  subsequently  came  to  be  regarded  as  the 
ruler  of  the  sea,  the  law-giver  and  protector  of  marriage, 
the  support  of  the  state,  the  foundress  of  religion  and 
the  mysteries;  and  she  finally  obtained  such  importance 
that  she  was  considered  by  the  philosophers  as  the  fun- 
damental principle  of  the  world,  the  divine  power  which 
is  the  cause  of  all  the  phenomenon  of  nature,  and  the 
source  of  divine  and  human  life. 

In  the  monuments  Isis  is  called  the  goddess-mother, 
the  mistress  of  heaven,  sister  and  wife  of  Osiris,  and 
nurse  of  Horns,  the.  mourner  of  her  brother,  the  eye  of 
the  sun,  and  regent  of  the  gods.  In  her  terrestrial 
character  she  wears  upon  her  head  the  throne  which 
represented  her  name ; in  her  celestial,  the  disc  and 
horns,  or  tall  plumes.  She  is  often  seen  nursing  Horns 
(q.  v.);  sometimes  also  with  the  head  of  a cow  (indi- 
cating her  identity  with  the  cow  Athor,  the  mother  of 
the  sun),  having  a ball  between  her  horns,  the  lotus  on 
the  top  of  her  head,  and  the  sistrum  in  her  hand.  She 
mostly  wore  a cloak  fastened  on  her  bosom  by  a knot ; 
other  images  represent  her  with  a spear,  or,  again,  with 
the  head  of  a hawk  and  wings,  a spear  in  her  right 
hand  and  a snake  in  the  left,  or  with  a flowing  mantle 
and  spreading  a sail.  Isis  was  worshipped  throughout 
Egypt,  and  especially  at  Memphis.  There  was  an  im- 
age of  her  at  Sa'is  with  the  inscription,  “ I am  the  all,  | 
that  has  been,  is,  and  shall  be,  and  my  cloak  has  no 
IT. — X x 


mortal  lifted  yet.”  An  annual  festival  of  ten  days’  du- 
ration commemorated  the  victory  of  Isis  over  Typhon 
by  means  of  the  sistrum  : on  this  occasion  a solemn  fast 
was  succeeded  by  processions,  in  which  sheaves  of  wheat 
were  carried  about  in  honor  of  Isis,  etc.  After  Alexan- 
der the  Great,  the  worship  of  Isis  was  propagated 
throughout  all  the  countries  inhabited  by  the  Greeks; 
in  Greece  temples  were  erected  to  her  at  Phlius,  Mega- 
ra,  Tithorea,  and  Phocis.  The  worship  of  Isis  was  also 
introduced  into  Borne  in  the  time  of  Sulla  (B.C.  8(5), 
but  her  temples  were  often  closed  on  account  of  the  li- 
centiousness of  her  priests.  (Josephus  tells  a story  about 
the  demolition  of  her  temple  at  Borne  by  order  of  the 
emperor  on  account  of  an  intrigue  by  one  Mundus  to  se- 
cure the  gratification  of  his  passion  for  a Boman  matron, 
Ant.  xviii,  3,  4).  Yet,  under  the  emperors,  it  found 
credit,  and  Domitian,  Commodus,  and  Caracalla  were 
themselves  among  her  priests.  Writers  of  those  times 
say  that  it  was  in  their  day  still  the  custom  of  the  Greeks 
! and  Bomans  to  carry  a boat  in  solemn  procession  in 
j honor  of  Isis  on  the  opening  of  spring  (March  5th). 
Hence,  in  the  Boman  calendar,  the  5th  of  March  is  des- 
ignated as  Isidis  narigium.  As  similar  processions  were 
also  made  by  some  of  the  German  nations  in  honor  of 
their  deities,  Tacitus  claims  that  they  also  worshipped 
Isis ; yet  her  name  nowhere  appears  among  them,  neither 
is  it  exactly  known  what  goddess  he  thus  designated. 

“ The  myth  of  Isis,  as  given  by  Plutarch  (I)e  Iside), 
appears  to  be  a fusion  of  Egyptian  and  Phoenician  tra- 
ditions, and  the  esotcrical  explanations  offered  by  that 
writer  and  others  show  the  high  antiquity  and  unintcl- 
1 ligibility  of  her  name.  .She  was  thought  to  mean  the 
cause  or  seat  of  the  earth,  to  be  the  same  as  the  Egyp- 
tian Neith  or  Minerva,  and  Athor  or  Venus;  to  be  the 
Greek  Demeter  or  Ceres,  Hecate,  or  even  Io.  Many 
monuments  have  been  found  of  this  goddess,  and  a tem- 
ple at  Pompeii,  and  a hymn  in  her  honor  at  Antioch. 
The  representations  of  her  under  the  Boman  empire  are 
most  numerous,  Isis  having,  in  the  pantheistic  spirit  of 
the  age,  been  compared  with  and  figured  as  all  the  prin- 
cipal goddesses  of  the  Pantheon”  (Chambers,  Cyclopec- 
dvt,  s.  v.). 

The  fable  was  adopted  and  incorporated  in  the  mysti- 
cism of  the  Gnostics.  Accordingly,  among  other  repre- 
sentations, we  find  a gem  containing  a beetle,  with  Isis 
on  the  opposite  side,  holding  two  children,  the  emblem 
of  maternal  fecundity.  See  Madonna.  On  another 
gem  the  beetle  is  not  cut  on  the  stone,  but  the  stone  is 
formed  into  the  shape  of  the  insect,  and  on  the  convex 
back  is  represented  Isis,  or  the  Egyptian  Ceres,  reclin- 
ing beside  the  Nile,  with  two  vases  of  Egyptian  corn, 
the  emblem  of  vegetable  prolificness,  naturally  expressed 
by  the  emblem  of  the  sun’s  rays  and  the  Nile : from  the 
head  issues  the  lotus,  and  in  one  hand  is  held  a nilomc- 
ter,  or  perhaps  a spade.  It  is  the  exact  form  of  the 
same  agricultural  instrument  as  used  at  this  day  in  the 
East.  An  amulet  of  Isis  was  held  in  great  sanctity. 
See  Egypt. 

See  Herod,  ii,  c.  59;  Ovid,  Metam.  ix,  776;  Bunsen, 
Egypt's  Place , i,  413;  Wilkinson,  J fanners  and  Oust,  iii, 
276;  iv,  366;  Birch,  Gall.  Ant.  p.  31 ; Bcichel,  De  Isis 
apud  Romanos  cultu  (Berlin,  1849);  Pierer,  Universal 
Lexikon,  ix,  82;  Smith,  Diet,  of  Class.  Mythol.  s.  v. 


Gnostic  Gem  of  Isis,  on  a Scarabaeus. 


Isites,  the  name  of  a Mohammedan  sect,  who  de- 
rive their  name  from  their  founder,  Isa-Alerdad.  They 


ISLAM 


690 


ISMAEL 


hold  that  the  Koran  was  created,  notwithstanding  the 
opposition  of  Mohammed  himself  against  such  a state- 
ment, for  he  held  that  it  was  eternal,  and  in  his  day 
anathematized  nil  who  dared  to  dissent  from  his  asser- 
tion. The  Isites,  however,  really  avow  the  same  belief, 
though  they  elothe  it  in  very  different  language.  They 
say  that  the  copy  of  the  Koran  delivered  by  the  Al- 
mighty to  his  Prophet  was  only  a transcription  of  the 
original,  and  that  the  reference  of  eternal  could  not 
therefore  be  to  any  copy  possessed  by  man.  But  their 
real  heresy  consists  in  their  declaration  that  the  Koran 
does  not  contain  that  matchless  eloquence  which  Mo- 
hammedans generally  claim  as  evidence  of  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  book.  See  Broughton,  Biblioth.  Histor.  Sac. 
i,  547. 

Islam  or  Bslam  (Arab.),  the  proper  name  of  the  re- 
ligion known  as  Mohammedanism,  designates  complete 
and  entire  submission  of  body  and  soul  to  God,  his  will 
and  his  service,  as  well  as  to  all  those  articles  of  faith, 
commands,  and  ordinances  revealed  to  and  ordained  by 
Mohammed  his  prophet.  Islam,  the  Mohammedans  say, 
was  once  the  religion  of  all  men;  but  wickedness  and 
idolatry  came  into  the  world  either  after  the  murder  of 
Abel,  or  at  the  time  which  resulted  in  the  flood,  or  only 
after  Amru  Ibn-Lohai,  one  of  the  first  and  greatest  Ara- 
bian idolaters.  Every  child,  they  believe,  is  born  in  Is- 
lam, or  the  true  faith,  and  would  continue  faithful  to  the 
end  were  it  not  influenced  by  the  wickedness  of  its  par- 
ents, “who  misguide  it  early,  and  lead  it  astray  to  Ma- 
gism  [see  Fahsees],  Judaism,  or  Christianity.” — Cham- 
bers, Cyclopecdia,  v,  648.  See  Mohammedanism. 

Island  or  Isle  is  the  invariable  rendering  in  the 
Auth.  Vers,  of  the  Heb.  word  ’’St  (Sept,  vijoog,  Vulg.  in- 
sula'), which  occurs  in  the  following  senses,  chiefly  in 
poetry:  First,  that  of  dry  or  habitable  land  in  opposi- 
tion to  water;  as,  “I  will  make  the  rivers  islands”  (Isa. 
xlii,  15;  comp,  xliii,  19;  lii,2).  Especially  is  it  a mar- 
itime region  or  sea-coast,  like  the  East-Indian  Dsib, 
which  means  both  shore  and  island.  In  Isa.  xx,  6,  the 
isle  of  Aslulod  means  the  country,  and  is  so  rendered  in 
the  margin,  particularly  as  this  was  a sea-shore.  In 
Isa.  xxiii,  2,  6,  “ the  isle”  means  the  country  of  Tyre, 
and  in  Ezek.  xxvii,  6,  7,  that  of  Chittim  and  Elisha, 
both  being  maritime  regions.  (In  Job  xxii, 30, 
moans  the  wo«-guiltless.)  In  this  sense  it  is  more  par- 
ticularly restricted  to  the  shores  of  the  Mediterranean, 
sometimes  in  the  fuller  expression  “islands  of  the  sea” 
(Isa.  xi,  1 1),  or  “ isles  of  the  Gentiles”  (Gen.  x,  5;  comp. 
Zcph.  ii,  1 1 ),  and  sometimes  simply  as  “ isles”  (Psa.  lxxii, 
10;  Ezek.  xxvi,  15, 18;  xxvii,  3, 35;  xxxix,  G ; Dan.xi, 
18) : an  exception  to  this,  however,  occurs  in  Ezek. 
xxvii,  15,  where  the  shores  of  the  Persian  Gulf  are  in- 
tended. Secondly,  it  is  used  both  in  Hebrew  and  Eng- 
lish, according  to  its  geographical  meaning,  for  an  isl- 
and proper,  i.  e.  a country  surrounded  by  water,  as  in 
Jcr.  xlvii,  4,  “the  isle  (margin)  of  Caphtor,”  which  is 
probably  that  of  Cyprus.  “The  isles  of  the  sea”  (Estli. 
x,  1)  arc  evidently  put  in  opposition  to  “the  land”  or 
continent.  Thirdly,  the  word  is  used  by  the  Hebrews 
to  designate  all  those  countries  divided  from  Palestine 
by  water,  as  fully  described  in  .Ter.  xxv,  22,  “ the  isles 
which  are  beyond  the  sea,”  which  were  hence  regarded 
as  the  most  remote  regions  of  the  earth  (Isa.  xxiv,  15; 
xlii,  10;  lix,  18;  compare  the  expression  in  Isa.  lxvi,  19, 
“the  isles  alar  oil  ’),  and  also  as  large  and  numerous 
(Isa.  xl,  15;  1 *sa.  xcvii,  1).  (See  J.  1 ).  Michaelis,  Spici- 
leyinm,  i,  131-112.)  In  Isa.  xi,  1 1,  after  an  enumeration 
of  countries  lying  on  their  own  continent,  the  words 
“and  the  islands  of  the  sea”  are  added  in  order  to  com- 
prehend those  situate  beyond  the  ocean.  It  is  observed 
by  Sir  I.  Newton  (on  Daniel,  p.  27G),  “ By  the  earth  the 
Jews  understood  the  great  continent  of  all  Asia  and  Af- 
rica, to  which  they  had  access  by  land;  and  by  the  isles 
of  the  sea  they  understood  the  places  to  which  they 
sailed  by  sea,  particularly  all  Europe.  (See  Gesenius. 
Thes.  Ileb.  p.  38.)— Kitto  ;*  Smith.  Comp.  Wild  Beast. 


Islands  of  the  Blessed  were,  according  to  a 
very  old  Greek  myth,  certain  happy  isles  situated  to- 
wards the  edge  of  the  'Western  Ocean,  where  the  favor- 
ites of  the  gods,  rescued  from  death,  dwelt  in  joy,  and 
possessed  everything  in  abundance  that  could  contribute 
to  it.— Ch ambers,  Cyclop,  v,  648. 

Islebians  is  the  name  by  which  the  followers  of 
John  Agricola  (q.  v.)  arc  designated,  in  distinction  from 
all  other  Antinomians  (q.  v.).  The  name  is  derived 
from  their  master,  who  was  also  known  as  the  mayister 
Islebius,  because  a native  of  Eisleben,  also  the  birth- 
place of  Luther,  with  whom  he  was  a contemporary. 
.Sometimes  the  Islebians  are  called  Xomomaclii  (q.  v.). 

Islip,  Simon,  an  English  prelate,  flourished  in  the 
14th  century.  But  little  is  known  of  his  early  histo- 
ry. He  became  archbishop  in  1349,  having  previous- 
ly been  canon  of  St.  Paul’s,  dean  of  the  Arches,  and  a 
member  of  the  privy  council  of  the  king.  He  is  espe- 
cially celebrated  as  the  founder  of  the  college  of  Can- 
terburj'  (now  a part  of  Christ  Church,  Oxford).  “He 
built  it,”  says  bishop  Godwin,  in  his  account  of  Islip, 
“ and  endowed  it  with  good  possessions,  appropriating 
unto  the  same  the  parsonages  of  Pagham  and  Mayfield.” 
Perhaps  more  noteworthy  still  is  his  conduct  towards 
Wickliffe,  related  by  Neander  ( Ch.Ilist . v,  135— G,  where 
the  name  is  by  mistake  spelled  Islep,  and  so  even  in  the 
English  translation  by  Torrev).  Islip,  says  Neander, 
was  a firm  friend  of  the  reformer,  and  in  13G3  showed 
his  predilections  for  Wickliffe  by  appointing  him  over- 
seer over  the  Canterbury  college,  characterizing  him 
“as  a man  in  whose  circumspection,  fidelity,  and  activ- 
ity he  had  the  utmost  confidence,  and  to  whom  he  gave 
this  post  on  account  of  his  honorable  deportment  and 
his  learning.”  Of  course,  after  Islip’s  death  in  13G6  (Apr. 
26),  Wickliffe  was  deprived  of  his  place  (comp.  Lewis, 
Life  of  Wickliffe,  1820,  p.  9 sq.).  See  Hook,  Ecclesias- 
tical Biography,  vi,  265.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Ismachi'ah  (Heb.  Yismaky ah', but  only  in  the  pro- 
longed form  Yismachga'hu,  supported  by  Je- 

hovah ; Sept.  Sapayia),  one  of  the  Levites  charged  by 
Hezekiah  with  the  superintendence  of  the  sacred  offer- 
ings under  the  general  direction  of  the  high-priest  and 
others  (2  Chron.  xxxi,  13).  B.C.  72G. 

Is'mael,  a Gneeized  form  of  the  name  Isiimael  (q. 
v.),  found  in  the  A.  V.  of  the  Apocrypha. 

1.  (’loyW/X.)  The  son  of  Abraham  (Judith  ii,  23). 

2.  ( I opaijXog.)  One  of  the  priests  who  relinquished 
their  Gentile  wives  after  the  Captivity  (1  Esdr.  ix,  22). 

Ismael,  the  elder  son  of  Jaafer  Saduk,  the  sixth 
imaum,  in  a direct  line,  from  Ali  Ben-Ali  Talcb  (who 
married  Mohammed’s  daughter  Fatima,  and  foimded 
the  Ali  sect,  also  known  as  Fatimites,  and  more  generally 
as  the  Shiites,  q.v.),  was  to  have  been  the  seventh  imaum 
of  the  Shiites,  but,  as  he  died  during  his  father’s  lifetime, 
Jaafer  appointed  as  his  successor  his  younger  son  Kau- 
zim.  This  main-  of  the  Shiites  opposed,  holding  that, 
as  the  imaum  is  an  incarnate  emanation  of  the  Deity, 
only  a descendant  of  the  direct  line  could  assume  the 
responsibilities  of  this  high  office,  and  claimed  the  dis- 
tinction for  the  sons  of  Ismael,  who  alone,  of  the  descend- 
ants of  Jaafer,  were  entitled  to  be  imaums.  This  con- 
tention caused  a schism  among  the  Shiites  about  the  2d 
century  of  the  Hegira  (8tli  century  of  our  a*ra),  and 
gave  rise  to  a new  sect,  under  the  name  of  ISMAEL- 
1 TES,  or  Ismaeliaxs.  The  Abbassuhe  (friends  and 
followers  of  Abbas,  the  uncle  of  Mohammed),  whose  in- 
terest it  was  to  foster  all  divisions  between  the  power- 
ful Shiites,  in  order  to  assume  the  government  them- 
selves, sided  with  the  Tsmaelites.  But  the  Persians, 
among  whom  the  Ismaelites  at  first  mainly  prospered 
(generally  known  as  Talimis,  from  talimi,  “learning," 
because  they  afterwards  held,  contrary  to  the  orthodox 
Mussulmans,  that  man  can  arrive  at  the  truth  of  any- 
thing only  by  continued  study),  soon  comprehended  the 
designs  of  the  Abbassida?,  and  they  warred  alike  against 


ISMAEL 


691 


ISMAEL 


the  Abbasside»caliphs  ami  the  other  Mussulmans.  Mis- 
sionaries were  sent  through  all  the  territories  settled  by 
the  followers  of  Mohammed,  at  this  time  torn  in  pieces 
by  scores  of  sects,  to  advocate  the  claims  of  the  house 
of  Ismael.  They  flourished  in  the  9th  and  10th  centu- 
ries under  the  name  of  Karmatians  (q.  v.),  and  consti- 
tuted a secret  band,  governed  by  laws  very  much  like  the 
freemasons,  admitting,  however,  some  very  dangerous 
tenets,  and  advocating  the  extirpation  of  their  enemies 
by  the  sword.  They  received  additional  strength  in 
the  11th  century  of  our  a>ra,  when  a family  of  chiefs, 
through  the  means  of  superstition,  established  an  influ- 
ence over  the  minds  of  the  Ismaelians  that  enabled 
them  for  two  centuries  to  control  the  affairs  of  Persia. 
The  first  of  these  chiefs  was  Hussun  Subah  (from  whose 
name  the  Ismaelites  of  this  period  are  often  called  /Jus- 
sitni  or  I/ossoni — a title,  however,  having  no  connec- 
tion [as  has  been  erroneously  supposed  by  some]  with 
the  English  word  assassin,  which  is  really  equivalent 
to  hashish-eaters;"  see  Assassins),  who,  after  many 
years  of  persecution,  succeeded  in  obtaining  a strong- 
hold, and,  there  fortifying  himself,  founded  upon  the  1s- 
maelitic  model  a sect  of  his  own.  Besides  maintaining 
the  principles  of  the  Ismaelites  so  far  as  regarded  then- 
rights  of  succession  to  the  office  of  imaum,  he  also  “in- 
troduced many  new  tenets  more  conformable  to  the 
opinions  of  the  Suffis,  or  philosophical  deists,  than  to 
those  of  orthodox  Mohammedans.  The  Koran,  he  ad- 
mitted, was  a holy  volume;  but  he  insisted  that  its 
spirit,  and  not  its  literal  meaning,  was  to  be  observed. 
He  rejected  the  usual  modes  of  worship,  as  true  devo- 
tion, he  said,  was  seated  in  the  soul,  and  prescribed 
forms  might  disturb,  though  they  could  never  aid,  that 
secret  and  fervent  adoration  which  it  must  always  offer 
to  its  Creator  (Malcolm,  from  a Persian  MS.).  But 
the  principal  tenet  which  Ilnssun  Subah  inculcated  was 
a complete  and  absolute  devotion  to  himself  and  to  his 
descendants.  His  disciples  were  instructed  to  consider 
him  more  as  their  spiritual  than  their  worldly  leader. 
The  means  he  took  to  instil  this  feeling  into  their  minds 
must  have  been  powerful,  from  the  effect  which  was 
produced.  “When  an  envoy  from  Malik  Shah  came  to 
Allahamout,  Ilussun  commanded  one  of  his  subjects  to 
stab  himself,  and  another  to  cast  himself  headlong  from 
a precipice.  Both  mandates  were  instantly  obeyed! 
‘Go,’  said  he  to  the  astonished  envoy,  ‘and  explain  to 
your  master  the  character  of  my  followers’”  (Malcolm, 
Jlist . of  Persia,  i,  399).  One  reason  which  may  be  as- 
signed for  this  control  of  Hussun  over  his  adherents  is 
that  he  formed  them  into  a secret  order,  and,  besides, 
promised  them  advancement  from  one  degree  to  an- 
other, in  the  highest  of  which  a foretaste  of  the  life  that 
is  to  come  was  given  them.  This  extraordinary  mode 
of  procuring  the  devotion  of  his  disciples  he  is  said  to 
have  produced  by  drugs.  “A  youth  who  was  deemed 
worthy,  by  his  strength  and  resolution,  to  be  initiated 
into  the  Assassin  service  was  invited  to  the  table  and 
conversation  of  the  grand  master,  or  grand  prior;  he 
was  then  intoxicated  with  hashish  (the  hemp-plant), 
and  carried  into  the  garden — a true  Eastern  Paradise — 
-where  the  music  of  the  harp  was  mingled  with  the 
songs  of  birds,  and  the  melodious  tones  of  the  female 
singers  harmonized  with  the  murmurs  of  the  brooks.  I 
Everything  breathed  pleasure,  rapture,  and  sensuali-  j 
tv,  and  this,  on  awakening,  he  believed  to  be  Paradise ; | 
everything  around  him,  the  houris  in  particular,  con-  : 
tributed  to  confirm  his  delusion.  After  he  had  expe- 
rienced as  much  of  the  pleasures  of  Paradise,  which  the 
Prophet  had  promised  to  the  blessed,  as  his  strength  ' 
would  admit — after  quaffing  enervating  delight  from  the 
eyes  of  the  houris,  and  intoxicating  wine  from  glitter- 
ing goblets,  he  sank  into  the  lethargy  produced  by  nar- 
cotic draughts,  on  awakening  from  which,  after  a few 
hours,  he  again  found  himself  by  the  side  of  his  supe- 
rior. The  latter  endeavored  to  convince  him  that  cor- 
poreally lie  had  not  left  his  side,  but  that  spiritually  he 
had  been  rapt  into  Paradise,  and  had  there  enjoyed  [ 


a foretaste  of  the  bliss  which  awaits  the  faithful,  who 
devote  their  lives  to  the  service  of  the  faith  and  the 
obedience  of  their  chiefs.  Thus  did  these  infatuated 
youths  blindly  dedicate  themselves  as  the  tools  of  mur- 
der, and  eagerly  seek  an  opportunity  to  sacrifice  their 
lives,  in  order  to  become  partakers  of  a Paradise  of  sen- 
sual pleasure.  What  Mohammed  had  promised  in  the 
Koran  to  the  Moslem,  but  which  to  many  might  ap- 
pear a dream  and  mere  empty  promises,  thev  had  en- 
joyed in  reality ; and  the  joys  of  heaven  animated  them 
to  deeds  worthy  of  hell”  (Madden,  Turkish  Empire,  ii, 
185,  based  on  Hammer’s  Gesrh.  tier  Assasshien).  Mal- 
colm thinks  this  an  improbable  tale,  invented  by  the 
orthodox  Mohammedans,  who  hold  the  Assassins  in 
great  abhorrence,  because  “ the  use  of  wine  was  strictly 
forbidden  them,  and  they  were  enjoined  the  most  tem- 
perate and  abstemious  habits.”  But  this  seems  to  us 
only  an  additional  reason  why  we  should  believe  it  to 
be  true;  for  if  Hussun  used  the  hashish  to  intoxicate  his 
followers  when  their  nerves  needed  strengthening  for 
some  atrocious  deed,  we  could  not  expect  him  to  advocate 
the  free  use  of  intoxicating  beverages.  Kay,  its  truth 
is  further  confirmed  by  the  revelations  which  the  fourth 
successor  of  Ilussun  as  grand  master  made  of  the  im- 
posture. The  use  also  to  this  day7  at  Constantinople 
and  at  Cairo  of  opium  with  henbane  shows  what  an  in- 
credible charm  they  exert  on  the  drowsy  indolence  of 
the  Turk  and  the  fiery  imagination  of  the  Arab. 

Hussun,  on  account  of  several  hill  forts  which  he 
had  seized,  “was  styled  ‘Sheik  el-Jebcl,’  an  Arabic 
title  which  signifies  ‘the  chief  of  the  mountains,’  and 
which  has  been  literally,  but  erroneously,  translated 
‘ the  old  man  of  the  mountain’  ” (Malcolm,  i,  401).  The 
Ismaelites  in  his  time  spread  extensively.  They  flour- 
ished not  only  in  Persia,  but  also  in  Syria  and  Arabia, 
until  A.D.  1253,  when  their  atrocities  became  unbeara- 
ble, and  a general  massacre  against  them  was  inaugu- 
rated. A command  was  issued  by  the  reigning  prince, 
Mangn  Khan,  in  the  (151st  year  of  the  Hegira,  “ to  exter- 
minate all  the  Ismaelites,  and  not  to  spare  even  the  in- 
fant. at  its  mother’s  breast.  . . . Warriors  went  through 
the  provinces,  and  executed  the  fatal  sentence  without 
mercy  or  appeal.  Wherever  they  found  a disciple  of 
the  doctrine  of  the  Ismaelites  they  compelled  him  to 
kneel  down,  and  then  cut  off  his  head.  The  whole  race 
of  Kia  Busurgomid,  in  whose  descendants  the  grand 
mastership  had  been  hereditary,  were  exterminated.  . . . 
Twelve  thousand  of  these  wretched  creatures  were 
slaughtered  without  distinction  of  age.  . . . The  ‘de- 
voted to  murder’  were  not  now  the  victims  of  the  or- 
der’s vengeance,  but  that  of  outraged  humanity.  The 
sword  was  against  the  dagger  [the  weapon  the  Assas- 
sins most  generally  used  to  murder  their  opponents], 
the  executioner  destroyed  the  murderer.  The  seed 
sowed  for  two  centuries  was  now  ripe  for  the  harvest, 
and  the  field  ploughed  by  the  Assassin’s  dagger  was 
reaped  by  the  sword  of  the  mogul.  The  crime  had  been 
terrible,  but  no  less  terrible  was  the  punishment”  (Mad- 
den, ii,  187;  comp.  Milman’s  Gibbon  [ Harper’s  edition], 
Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire,  vi,  215).  But, 
with  all  these  persecutions,  they  still  struggled  on  for 
many  years,  and  even  in  our  own  day  “remains  of  the 
Ismaelites  still  exist  both  in  Persia  and  Syria,  but  mere- 
ly as  one  of  the  many  sects  and  heresies  of  Islamism 
[see  Mohammedanism ],  without  any  claims  to  power, 
without  the  means  of  retaining  their  former  importance, 
of  which  they  seem,  in  fact,  to  have  lost  all  remem- 
brance. The  policy7  of  the  secret  state-subverting  doc- 
trine which  animated  the  followers  of  Ilussun,  and  the 
murderous  tactics  of  the  Assassins,  are  equally  foreign 
to  them.  Their  writings  ere  a shapeless  mixture  of  1s- 
maelitic  and  Christian  traditions,  glossed  over  with  the 
ravings  of  a mystical  theologv.  Their  places  of  abode 
are,  both  in  Persia  and  Syrria,  those  of  their  forefathers, 
in  the  mountains  of  Irak,  and  at  the  foot  of  the  anti- 
Lebanon”  (Madden,  ii,  190, 191).  At  present  many7  stu- 
dents of  Eastern  history  incline  to  the  opinion  that 


ISMAEL 


692 


ISMAEL  BEN-ELISA 


“the  Druses”  (q.  v.),  generally  supposed  to  be  the  de- 
scendants of  the  llivites,  to  whom  they  bear  some  char- 
acteristic resemblances  (com]).  Chasseaud  [ a native  of 
Syria,  and  a very  able  scholar],  Druses  of  the  Lebanon , 
p. 361  sq.), “must  be  looked  upon  as  the  only  true  rep- 
resentatives in  Svria  of  the  Ismaelian  sect  of  the  fol- 
lowers of  Ali,  from  whom  the  Assassins  are  derived” 
(Madden,  ii,  196).  Some  also  hold  to  a connection  of 
the  .1  nsarians  with  the  Assassins,  especially  Mr. Walpole 
( Travels  in  the  further  East  in  1850-51  [London,  2 vols. 
8vo]  ; compare  also  his  Travels  in  the  East , iii,  3 sq.). 
Even  in  India  the  Ismaelites  are  believed  to  have  fol- 
lowers, and  as  such  “ the  Borahs,  an  industrious  race  of 
men,  whose  pursuits  are  commercial,  and  who  are  well 
known  in  the  British  settlements  of  India,  who  still 
maintain  that  part  of  the  creed  of  Hussun  Subah  which 
enjoins  a complete  devotion  to  the  mandate  of  the  high- 
priest”  (Malcolm,  i,  407,  408),  are  mentioned.  See,  be- 
sides the  works  already  cited,  J.  F.  Rousseau,  Memoire 
snr  les  Ismaelis  et  les  Xosairis,  with  notes  by  De  Sacy ; 
the  Rev.  Samuel  Lyde,  The  Ansireeh  and  Ishmaleeh,  a 
Visit  to  the  secret  Beets  of  Xorthern  Syria  (Loud.  1858, 
8vo) ; A static  Researches,  xi,  43  sq.  See  also  Moham- 
medan’s; Shiites.  (J.  H.W.) 

Ismael  Haji,  a Mussulman  reformer,  was  born  on 
the  28th  of  Shawal,  1 196  of  the  Hegira  (Sept.  1 1,  1781), 
in  the  village  of  Pholah,  district  of  Delhi.  Kis  family 
had  furnished  quite  a number  of  distinguished  theolo- 
gians, and  Ismael  began  early  to  preach  and  write 
against  the  superstitious  practices  which  had  been  in- 
troduced into  the  Mohammedan  worship  in  Hindustan. 
In  1819  he  became  connected  with  Ahmed  Shah,  a Mo- 
hammedan of  a family  of  Syeds  of  Bareilly,  in  Upper  In- 
dia, who  was  at  this  time  attracting  a great  deal  of  at- 
tention at  Delhi  by  superior  sanctity,  and  by  his  denun- 
ciations of  the  corrupt  forms  of  worship  then  prevalent. 
In  1822,  he  and  another  Mussulman  of  some  learning  set 
out  with  Ahmed  Shah  on  a visit  to  Arabia  ami  Turkey. 
I n all  the  great  cities  large  congregations  gathered  about 
these  new  reformers,  who  sought  to  enforce  attention  to 
the  precepts  of  the  Koran  independent  of  the  opinions 
of  the  high  dignitaries  of  the  Moslem  Church.  After 
travelling  about  for  more  than  four  years  they  returned 
to  Delhi,  determined  to  establish  a theocratic  form  of 
government  in  India,  and  to  restore  Islamism  to  its 
original  simplicity.  The  reformers  inaugurated  a gen- 
eral war  against  the  unbelieving,  and  laying  particu- 
lar stress  on  the  doctrine  of  the  unity  of  God,  they  soon 
succeeded  in  gaining  considerable  power  by  the' great 
number  of  their  adherents.  The  Sikhs  (q.  v.)  became 
their  chief  opponents,  and  with  them  a protracted  strug- 
gle ensued.  Driven  from  Delhi  by  the  civil  authorities, 
they  retired  in  1827  to  Funjtar  (situated  in  the  Ensof- 
zai  hills,  between  Peshawar  and  the  Indus),  where  they 
found  an  ally  in  Omar,  khan  Afghan  of  Punjtar.  At 
first  these  united  forces  were  successful  in  their  wars 
against  the  Sikhs,  but  the  Afghans  soon  grew  weary  of 
these  conquests  for  strange  allies,  and  Ahmed  and  Is- 
mael being  left  alone,  removed  to  the  left  bank  of  the 
Indus,  and  there,  amid  rugged  mountains,  continued  for 
a time  the  desultory  warfare.  Early  in  May,  1831,  how- 
ever, they  were  surprised  at  a place  called  Balakot,  in 
the  mountains  of  Pahkli,  and  slain. 

The  followers  of  Ahmed  and  Ismael  are  called  Thari- 
cati  Mohammediyat,  and  bear  some  resemblance  in  their 
doctrines  to  the  Sunnites  (q.  v.).  Ismael  composed  for 
the  benefit  of  the  sect,  and  at  the  instigation  of  Alnned, 
the  Tukriu  ul-Imun,  or  “Basis  of  the  Faith,"  in  the 
Urdu,  or  vernacular  language  of  Upper  India,  and  it  was 
printed  at  Calcutta.  “ It  is  divided  into  two  portions,  of 
which  the  first  only  is  understood  to  be  the  work  of  Is- 
mael, the  second  part  (the  Si  rat  A Imostukim,  published 
in  Persian  at  Calcutta,  and  translated  in  the  Journal  of 
the  Asiatic  Society  of  Benyal)  being  inferior,  and  the 
production  of  another  person.  In  the  preface  Ismael 
deprecates  the  opinion  ‘ that  the  wise  and  learned  alone 
can  comprehend  God’s  Word.  God  himself  had  said  a 


prophet  had  been  raised  up  among  the  rude  and  igno- 
rant for  their  instruction,  and  that  he,  the  Lord,  had 
rendered  obedienee  easy.  There  were  two  things  essen- 
tial: a belief  in  the  unity  of  God,  which  was  to  know 
no  other,  and  a knowledge  of  the  Prophet,  which  was 
obedience  to  the  law.  51  any  held  the  sayings  of  the 
saints  to  be  their  guide,  but  the  Word  of  God  was  alone 
to  be  attended  to,  although  the  matings  of  the  pious 
which  agreed  with  the  Scriptures  might  be  read  for  ed- 
ification.’ The  first  chapter  treats  of  the  unity  of  God, 
and  in  it  the  writer  deprecates  the  supplication  of  saints, 
angels,  etc.,  as  impious.  He  declares  the  reasons  given 
for  such  worship  to  be  futile,  and  to  show  an  utter  igno- 
rance of  God’s  Word.  1 The  ancient  idolaters  had  like- 
wise said  that  they  merely  venerated  powers  and  divin- 
ities, and  did  not  regard  them  as  the  equal  of  the  Al- 
mighty; but  God  himself  had  answered  these  heathens. 
Likewise  the  Christians  had  been  admonished  for  giv- 
ing to  dead  monks  and  friars  the  honor  due  to  the  Lord. 
God  is  alone,  and  companion  he  has  none;  prostration 
and  adoration  are  due  to  him,  and  to  no  other.’  Ismael 
proceeds  in  a similar  strain,  but  assumes  some  doubtful 
positions,  as  that  Mohammed  says  God  is  one,  and  man 
learns  from  his  parents  that  he  was  born ; he  believes 
his  mother,  and  yet  he  distrusts  the  apostle;  or  that  an 
evil-doer  who  has  faith  is  a better  man  than  the  most 
pious  idolater”  (Cunningham,  History  of  the  Sikhs,  p. 
190,  foot-note  f).  The  work  was  translated  m the  Jour- 
nal of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  of  Great  Britain  (1852), 
xiii,  317-367.  See  Garcin  de  Tassv,  Ilist.  de  la  Litt.hin- 
doustane , i,  251 ; Hoefer,  Xouv.  Bioyr.  Generate,  xxvi,  81. 
(J.  H.  W.) 

Ismael  ben-Elisa,  Ha-Cohex,  one  of  the  most 
celebrated  Jewish  Rabbis  and  theologians,  was  born 
about  A.D.  60  in  Upper  Galilee,  and  when  yet  a child 
was  carried  as  a captive  to  Rome  on  the  destruction  of 
Jerusalem.  While  he  was  confined  in  prison  in  the 
Eternal  City,  the  Rabbis  Joshua,  Azzariah.and  Gamaliel 
II  had  come  to  Rome  to  implore  mercy  and  pardon  for 
the  captive  Jews  of  the  then  reigning  emperor  Diocle- 
tian (about  A.D.  83),  and  by  accident  passing  the  pris- 
on door  of  this  young  boy,  Rabbi  Joshua  exelaimed  at 
his  door,  “ Who  gave  Jacob  for  a spoil,  and  Israel  to  the 
robbers  V”  (Isa.  xlii,  24)  to  which  Ismael  ben-Elisa  gave 
this  manly  reply : “ The  Lord,  against  whom  we  have 
sinned,  and  would  not  walk  in  his  ways,  nor  be  obedient 
unto  his  law”  (ibid.).  This  remarkable  reply  from  the 
month  of  Ismael  so  interested  the  celebrated  Rabbis 
in  his  behalf  that  they  vowed  to  secure  his  liberation 
before  they  should  quit  the  city.  Ismael  ben-Elisa, 
when  liberated,  placed  himself  under  the  instruction 
of  Rabbi  Joshua,  and  also  studied  under  the  celebrated 
Simon  ben-Jocliai.  At  a later  period  we  find  Ismael 
ben-Elisa  in  Southern  Judaea,  not  far  from  the  Idumtean 
boundaries,  at  Kephar-Aziz  (■‘1*K”^S2),  occupied  in 
the  cultivation  and  sale  of  the  grape.  But  while  thus 
employed  he  was  also  engaged  in  the  noble  effort  of 
maintaining  young  Jewish  maidens,  who,  by  the  desola- 
tions of  the  war,  had  been  impoverished,  and  were  suf- 
fering terribly  from  destitution.  Ismael  ben-Elisa  is 
supposed  to  have  suffered  martyrdom  during  the  perse- 
cutions so  frequent  at.  that  period  (about  A.D.  121). 
llis  especial  service  to  Judaism  was  the  system  of  inter- 
pretation which,  he  inaugurated  in  opposition  to  the 
system  of  Rabbi  Akiba.  The  latter  held  that  “every 
repetition,  figure,  parallelism,  synonyme,  word,  letter, 
particle,  pleonasm,  nay,  the  very  shape,  and  every  or- 
nament of  a letter  or  title,  had  a recondite  meaning  in 
the  Scripture,  ‘just  as  every  fibre  of  a fly’s  wing  or  an 
ant’s  foot  has  its  peculiar  significance.’  lienee  he  main- 
tained that  the  particles  Pit,  Da,  “X,  and  pi,  as  well 
as  the  construction  of  the  finite  verb  with  the  infinitive, 
e.  g.  “D'DIT  DD".“!,  -"i'n  D’lTt,  have  a dogmatic 
significance,  and  he  therefore  deduced  points  of  law 
from  them.  Fliilo  was  of  the  same  opinion  (comp,  oa- 
<p£j<;  tiCiog,  on  Trepirrbv  ovofxa  ovciv  ri? viro  rijg 


ISMAELITES 


G93 


ISRAEL 


rov  irpayparoXoyHP  apv&i}TOV  <popaQ,  De  profu (/is,  ed. 
Mangey,  p.  458),  and  he  even  deduced  from  them  eth- 
ical and  philosophical  maxims;  and  this  was  also  the 
opinion  of  the  Greek  translator  of  Ecclesiastes  in  the 
Septuagint,  as  may  he  seen  from  his  anxiety  to  indicate 
the  Hebrew  particle  PX  by  the  Greek  ovv , which  has 
greatly  perplexed  the  commentators  who,  being  unac- 
quainted with  this  fact,  have  been  unable  to  account  for 
this  barbarism  and  violation  of  grammatical  propriety” 
(comp.  Ginsburg,  Comment,  on  Ecclesiastes , p.  100).  ( )n 
the  other  hand,  Ilabbi  Ismael  ben-Elisa  held  that  the 
Scriptures  (of  course  only  the  O.  T.),  being  a composi- 
tion intended  for  human  eyes  and  comprehension,  “used 
expressions  in  their  common  acceptation,  and  that  many 
of  the  repetitions  and  parallelisms  are  simply  designed 
to  render  the  style  more  rhetorical  and  powerful,  and 
cannot,  therefore,  without  violation  of  the  laws  of  lan- 
guage, be  adduced  in  support  of  legal  deductions.”  In 
accordance  with  this  theory,  he  established  thirteen  ex- 
egetical  rules,  which  are  called  P.'H’a  PlP'i'P  IL'VcJ 
5 X “’2 'il1*1  The  thirteen  Rules  of  R.  Ismael , by 

which  alone,  as  he  maintained,  the  Scriptures  are  to  be 
interpreted  (DPD  PlPlPPlil1).  Comp,  the  very 

valuable  work  of  Dr.  E.  M.  Pinner,  Talmud  Bahli  ( frac- 
tal Berachoth)  mil  deutscher  Uebersetzung,  etc.  (Berlin, 
1842,  fol.),  i,  17-20,  where  Ismael’s  rules  are  given  with 
lengthy  annotations.  See  also  the  article  Midrasii. 
Babbi  Ismael  is  also  the  reputed  author  of  a number 
of  other  ■works.  The  most  important  of  these  are,  an 
allegorical  commentary  on  Exod.  xii-xxiii,  20,  called 
Xrbll,  treating  of  the  ceremonies  prescribed  by  the 
Torah.  Numerous  editions  of  it  have  been  printed; 
the  first  at  Constantinople,  1515,  folio;  the  last,  to  our 
knowledge,  at  Wilna,  1844,  folio.  It  has  been  augment- 
ed by  notes  from  several  other  Jewish  writers,  and  was 
translated  into  Latin  by  Ugolino  ( Thesaurus  A ntiquita- 
tum,  vol.  xiv)  : — “1£,nS  (or  q''n  D),  a work 
on  mystic  theology,  of  which  extracts  have  been  pub- 
lished in  *'T“X  (Venice,  1001,4to;  Cracow,  1648, 

4to),  and  in  other  works.  It  was  printed  separately  un- 
der the  title  *1£*15  dn-I  (Venice,  1677,  8vo; 

Zolkiew,  1833, 8vo).  It  was  also  inserted  in  parts  in  the 
edition  of  the  Zoliar.  Ismael  also  wrote  a cabalistic, 
allegorical  treatise  on  the  nature  and  attributes  of  God, 
under  the  title  •f'Sl’p  also  called  5. 

A part  of  it  was  published  in  the  ^X^T*1  O of  Eleazar 
bcn-Jehiulah  of  Worms  (Amsterd.  1701,  4to,  and  often). 
Another  small  cabalistic  treatise  on  the  shape  and  mys- 
tic value  of  letters,  under  the  title  of  Fi:*P2Plil  0,  was 
published  with  a long  commentary  (Konz,  1774.  4to), 
etc.  See  Fiirst,  Bill.  Judaica , ii,  75  sq. ; Kossi,  Dizion. 
starico  degli  A utori  Ehrei ; Zunz,  Die  Gottesdienstliclien 
Yortrage  der  Juden  (Berlin,  1832),  p.  47  sq. ; Griitz,  Ge- 
schiclite  der  Juden , iv,  68  sq. ; Steinschneider,  Catalogus 
Libr.  Ilebr.  in  Biblioth.  Bodleiana,  col.  1160,  etc.;  Ben- 
Chananja  (Szegedin,  1858),  i,  122  sq.  (J.  II. W.) 

Ismaelites.  See  Ismael. 

Ismai'ah  (1  Chron.  xii,  4).  See  Isiimaiaii,  1. 

Is'pah  (Heb.  Yishpah',  prob.M;  Septnag. 

’Eff^dxv.r.  ’itotpa), one.  of  the  “sons”  of  Beriah,  a chief 
Benjamite  (originally  from  the  neighborhood  of  Aija- 
lon)  resident  at  Jerusalem  (1  Chron.  viii,  16).  B.C.  aute 
588. 

Is'rael  [not  Izred]  (Heb.  YisraeV,  ; Sept, 

and  N.  T.  ’l<xpo//\),  the  name  of  the  founder  of  the  Jew- 
ish nation,  and  of  the  nation  itself,  specially  of  the  king- 
dom comprising  the  ten  northern  tribes  after  the  schism. 

The  name  was  originally  conferred  by  the  angel-Je- 
hovah  upon  Jacob  after  the  memorable  prayer-struggle 
at  I’eniel  (Gen.  xxxii,  28) ; and  the  reason  there  assign- 
ed is  that  the  patriarch  “as  a prince  had  power 
With  God  and  man,  and  prevailed”  (comp.  Gen.  xxxv, 


10;  Hos.  xii,  4).  The  etymology  is  therefore  clearly 
from  the  root  iTliU,  with  the  frequent  adjunct  5X,  God. 
The  verb  itself  occurs  nowhere  else  than  in  the  above 
passages,  where  it  evidently  means  to  strive  or  contend 
as  in  battle ; but  derivatives  are  found,  e.  g.  STITT,  a 
princess,  and  hence  applied  to  Abraham’s  wife  in  ex- 
change for  her  former  name  Sarai.  The  signification 
thus  appears  to  be  that  of  a “ successful  wrestler  with 
God ,”  a sense  with  which  all  the  lexicographers  sub- 
stantially coincide ; e.  g.  Gesenius  (Heb.  Lex.  s.  v.,  and 
Thesaur.  p.  l?>oti),pugnator,  i.  e.  miles  Dei ; Winer  (I kb. 
Lex.  p.  1026),  luctator , i.  e.  puejnator  Dei;  Fiirst  (I kb. 
Worterb.  s.  v.),  Got(~Beherrscher. 

1.  Jacob,  whose  history  will  be  found  under  that 
name.  Although,  as  applied  to  Jacob  personally,  Israel 
is  an  honorable  or  poetical  appellation,  it  is  the  common 
prose  name  of  his  descendants,  while,  on  the  contrary, 
the  title  Jacob  is  given  to  them  only  in  poetry.  In  the 
latter  division  of  Isaiah  (after  the  39th  chapter),  many 
instances  occur  of  the  two  names  used  side  by  side,  to 
subserve  the  parallelism  of  Hebrew  poetry,  as  in  ch.  xl, 
27;  xii, 8, 14,20,21;  xlii,24;  xliii,  1, 22,  28,  etc.;  so,  in- 
deed, in  xiv,  1.  The  modern  Jews,  at  least  in  the  East, 
are  fond  of  being  named  Israeli  in  preference  to  Yahudi, 
as  more  honorable. — Ivitto.  See  Jacob. 

2.  The  Israelites,  i.  e.  the  whole  people  of  Israel, 
the  twelve  tribes ; often  called  the  children  of  Israel 
(Josh,  iii,  17;  vii,  25;  Judg.  viii,  27 ; Jer.  iii,  21);  and 
the  house  of  Israel  (Exod.  xvi,  31 ; xl,  38) ; so  also  in  Is- 
rael (1  Sam.  ix,  9) ; and  land  of  Israel,  i.  e.  Palestine  (l 
Sam.  xiii,19;  2 Kings  vi,.23).  Sometimes  the  whole 
people  is  represented  as  one  person  : “Israel  is  my  son” 
(Exod.  iv,  22;  Numb,  xx,  14 ; Isa.  xii,  8 ; xlii,  24 ; xliii, 
1, 15;  xliv,  1,  5).  Israel  is  sometimes  put  emphatically 
for  the  true  Israelites,  the  faithful,  those  distinguished 
for  piety  and  virtue,  and  worthy  of  the  name  (Psa.  lxxiii, 
1;  Isa.  xiv,  17;  xlix,  3;  John  i,  47;  Kom.ix,  6;  xi,  26). 
Israelites  was  the  usual  name  of  the  twelve  tribes,  from 
their  leaving  Egypt  until  after  the  death  of  Saul.  But 
in  consequence  of  the  dissensions  between  the  ten  tribes 
and  Judah  from  the  death  of  Saul  onward,  these  ten 
tribes,  among  whom  Ephraim  took  the  lead,  arrogated 
to  themselves  this  honorable  name  of  the  whole  nation 
(2  Sam.  ii,  9, 10, 17,  28 ; iii,  10, 17  ; xix,  40-43 ; 1 Kings 
xii,  1) ; and  on  their  separation,  after  the  death  of  Solo- 
mon, into  an  independent  kingdom,  founded  by  Jero- 
boam, this  name  was  adopted  for  the  kingdom,  so  that 
thenceforth  the  kings  of  the  ten  tribes  were  called  Icings 
of  Israel,  and  the  descendants  of  David,  who  ruled  over 
Judah  and  Benjamin,  were  called  kings  of  Judah.  So 
in  the  prophets  of  that  period  Judah  and  Israel  are  put 
in  opposition  (Hos.  iv,  15;  v,  3, 5;  vi,10;  vii,  1 ; viii, 2, 
3,6,8;  ix,  1,7;  Amos  i,  1 ; ii,  6;  iii,  14;  Mic.  i,  5 ; Isa.  v, 
7).  Yet  the  kingdom  of  Judah  could  still  be  reckoned  as 
a part  of  Israel,  as  in  Isa.  viii,  14,  the  two  kingdoms  are 
called  the  two  houses  of  Israel;  and  hence,  after  the  de- 
struction of  the  kingdom  of  Israel  at  Samaria,  the  name 
Israel  began  again  to  be  applied  to  the  whole  surviving 
people. — Gesenius.  See  Hebrew;  Israelite;  etc. 

3.  It  is  used  in  a narrower  sense,  excluding  Judah,  in 
1 Sam.  xi,  8.  It  is  so  used  in  the  famous  cry  of  the 
rebels  against  David  (2  Sam.  xx,  1)  and  against  his 
grandson  (1  Kings  xii,  16).  Thenceforth  it  was  assumed 
and  accepted  as  the  name  of  the  northern  kingdom,  in 
which  the  tribes  of  Judah,  Benjamin,  Levi,  Dan,  and 
Simeon  had  no  share. — Smith.  See  Israel,  Kingdom 
ok. 

4.  After  the  Babylonian  captivity,  the  returned  ex- 
iles, although  they  were  mainly  of  the  kingdom  of  Ju- 
dah, resumed  the  name  Israel  as  the  designation  of  their 
nation,  but  as  individuals  they  are  almost  always  de- 
scribed as  Jews  in  the  Apocrypha  and  N.  T.  Instances 
occur  in  the  books  of  Chronicles  of  the  application  of 
the  name  Israel  to  Judah  (e.  g.  2 Chron.  xi,  3;  xii,  6), 
and  in  Esther  of  the  name  Jews  to  the  whole  people. 
The  name  Israel  is  also  used  to  denote  laymen  as  dis- 


ISRAEL 


694 


ISRAEL 


tinguislied  from  priests,  Lcvites,  and  other  ministers 
(Ezra  vi,  16;  ix,  1;  x,  25;  Neh.  xi,  3,  etc.).— Smith. 
The  twelve  tribes  of  Israel  ever  formed  the  ideal  repre- 
sentation of  the  whole  stock  (1  Kings  xviii,  30,  31 ; Ezra 
vi,  17 ; Jer.  xxxi,  1,  etc.).  Ilcnce  also  in  the  New  Test. 
“Israel”  is  applied  (as  in  No.  2 above)  to  the  true  peo- 
ple of  God,  whether  of  Jewish  or  Gentile  origin  (Korn, 
ix,  6;  Gal.  vi,  16,  etc.),  being,  in  fact,  comprehensive  of 
the  entire  Church  of  the  redeemed.— Fairbairn.  See 
Jews. 

ISRAEL,  Kingdom  of.  The  name  Israel  (q.  v.), 
which  at  first  had  been  the  national  designation  of  the 
twelve  tribes  collectively  (Exod.  iii,  16,  etc.),  was,  on  the 
division  of  the  monarchy,  applied  to  the  northern  king- 
dom (a  usage,  however,  not  strictly  observed,  as  in  2 
Chron.  xii,  6),  in  contradistinction  to  the  other  portion, 
which  was  termed  the  kingdom  of  Judah.  This  limita- 
tion of  the  name  Israel  to  certain  tribes,  at  the  head  of 
which  was  that  of  Ephraim,  which,  accordingly,  in  some 
of  the  prophetical  writings,  as  e.  g.  Isa.  xvii,  13 ; Hos.  iv, 
17,  gives  its  own  name  to  the  northern  kingdom,  is  dis- 
cernible even  at  so  early  a period  as  the  commencement 
of  the  reign  of  Saul,  and  affords  evidence  of  the  exist- 
ence of  some  of  the  causes  which  eventually  led  to  the 
schism  of  the  nation.  It  indicated  the  existence  of  a 
rivalry,  which  needed  only  time  and  favorable  circum- 
stances to  ripen  into  the  revolt  witnessed  after  the  death 
of  S domon. 

I.  Causes  of  the.  Division. — The  prophet  Abijah,  who 
had  been  commissioned  to  announce  to  Jeroboam,  the 
Ephraimite,  the  transference  to  him  of  the  greater  part 
of  the  kingdom  of  Solomon,  declared  it  to  be  the  pun- 
ishment of  disobedience  to  the  divine  law,  and  particu- 
larly of  the  idolatry  so  largely  promoted  by  Solomon  (1 
Kings  xi,  31-35).  I hit  while  this  revolt  from  the  house 
of  David  is  to-be  thus  viewed  in  its  directly  penal  char- 
acter, or  as  a divine  retribution,  this  does  not  preclude 
an  inquiry  into  those  sacred  causes,  political  and  other- 
wise, to  which  this  very  important  revolution  in  Israel- 
itish  history  is  clearly  referable.  Such  an  inquiry,  in-  | 
deed,  will  make  it  evident  how  human  passions  and  jeal- 
ousies were  made  subservient  to  the  divine  purpose. 

Prophecy  had  early  assigned  a pre-eminent  place  to 
two  of  the  sons  of  Jacob — Judah  and  Joseph — as  the 
founders  of  tribes.  In  the  blessing  pronounced  upon 
his  sons  by  the  dying  patriarch,  Joseph  had  the  birth- 
right conferred  upon  him,  and  was  promised  in  his  son 
Ephraim  a numerous  progeny;  while  to  Judah  promise 
was  made,  among  other  blessings,  of  rule  or  dominion 
over  his  brethren— “ thy  father’s  children  shall  bow 
down  before  thee”  (Gen.  xlviii,  19,  22;  xlix,  8,  26;  comp. 

1 < 'hron.  v,  I,  2).  These  blessings  were  repeated  and  en- 
larged in  the  blessing  of  Moses  (Dent,  xxxiii,  7,  17). 
The  pre-eminence  thus  prophetically  assigned  to  these 
two  tribes  received  a partial  verification  in  the  fact  that 
at  the  exodus  their  numbers  were  nearly  equal,  and  far 
in  excess  of  those  of  the  other  tribes ; and  further,  as  be- 
came their  position,  they  were  the  first  who  obtained 
their  territories,  which  were  also  assigned  them  in  the 
very  centre  of  the  land.  It  is  unnecessary  to  advert  to 
the  various  other  circumstances  which  contributed  to 
the  growth  and  aggrandizement  of  these  two  tribes,  and 
which,  from  the  position  these  were  thus  enabled  to  ac- 
quire above  the  rest,  naturally  led  to  tlieir  becoming 
^heads  of  parties,  and,  as  such,  the  objects  of  mutual  rival- 
ry ami  contention.  The  Ephraiinites,  indeed,  from  the 
very  first,  gave  unmistakable  tokens  of  an  exceedingly 
haughty  temper,  and  preferred  most  arrogant  claims 
over  the  other  tribes  as  regards  questions  of  peace  and 
war.  This  may  he.  seen  in  their  representation  to  ( lidcon 
of  the  tribe  of  Manassch  (Judg.  viii,  J),  and  in  their  con- 
duct towards  Jephthah  (Judg.  xii,  1 ).  Now  if  this  over- 
bearing people  resented  in  the  case  of  tribes  so  incon- 
siderable as  that,  of  Manassch  what  they  regarded  as  a 
slight,  it  is  easy  to  conceive  how  they  must  have  eved 
the  proceedings  of  the  tribe  of  Judah,  which  was  more 
especially  their  rival.  Ilcncc  it  was,  that  while  on  the 


first  establishment  of  the  monarchy  in  the  person  of 
Saul,  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin,  the  Ephraimites,  with 
the  other  northern  tribes  with  whom  they  were  associ- 
ated, silently  acquiesced,  they  refused  for  seven  years  to 
submit  to  bis  successor  of  tlic  tribe  of  Judah  (2  Sam.  ii, 
9-1 1),  and  even  after  their  submission  they  showed  a 
disposition  on  any  favorable  opportunity  to  raise  the  cry 
of  revolt : “ To  your  tents,  O Israel”  (2  Sam.  xx,  1).  It 
was  this  early,  long-continued,  and  deep-rooted  feeling, 
strengthened  and  embittered  by  the  schism,  though  not 
concurring  with  it,  that  gave  point  to  the  language  in 
which  Isaiah  predicted  the  blessed  times  of  Messiah: 
“The  envy  also  of  Ephraim  shall  depart,  and  the  adver- 
saries of  Judah  shall  be  cut  off;  Ephraim  shall  not  envy 
Judah,  and  Judah  shall  not  vex  Ephraim”  (Isa.  xi,  13). 
Indeed,  for  more  than  400  years,  from  the  time  that 
Joshua  was  the  leader  of  the  Israelitisli  hosts,  Ephraim, 
with  the  dependent  tribes  of  Manassch  and  Benjamin, 
may  be  said  to  have  exercised  undisputed  pre-eminence 
till  the  accession  of  David.  Accordingly  it  is  not  sur- 
prising that  such  a people  would  not  readily  submit 
to  an  arrangement  which,  though  declared  to  be  of  di- 
vine appointment,  should  place  them  in  a subordinate 
condition,  as  when  God  “refused  the  tabernacle  of  Jo- 
seph, and  chose  not  the  tribe  of  Ephraim,  but  chose  the 
tribe  of  Judah,  even  the  Mount  Zion  which  he  loved” 
(Psa.  Ixxviii,  67, 68).  See  Ephraim. 

There  were  thus,  indeed,  two  powerful  elements  tend- 
ing to  break  up  the  national  unity.  In  addition  to  the 
long-continued  and  growing  jealousy  on  the  part  of  the 
Ephraimites  to  the  tribe  of  Judah,  another  cause  of  dis- 
satisfaction to  the  dynasty  of  David  in  particular  was 
the  arrangement  just  referred  to,  which  consisted  in 
the  removal  of  the  civil,  and  more  particularly  the  eccle- 
siastical government,  to  Jerusalem.  The  Mosaic  ordi- 
nances were  in  themselves  exceedingly  onerous,  and 
this  must  have  been  more  especially  felt  by  such  as 
were  resident  at  a distance  from  the  sanctuary,  as  it  en- 
tailed upon  them  long  journeys,  not  only  when  attend- 
I ing  the  stated  festivals,  but  also  on  numerous  other  oc- 
casions prescribed  in  the  law.  This  must  have  been 
felt  as  a special  grievance  by  the  Ephraimites,  owing 
to  the  fact  that  the  national  sanctuary  had  been  for  a 
very  long  period  at  Shiloh, within  their  own  territory; 
ami  therefore  its  transference  elsewhere,  it  is  easy  to 
discern,  would  not  be  readily  acquiesced  in  by  a people 
who  had  proved  themselves  in  other  respects  so  jealous 
of  their  rights,  and  not  easily  persuaded  that  this  was 
not  rather  a political  expedient  on  the  part  of  the  rival 
tribe,  than  as  a matter  of  divine  choice  (1  Kings  xiv, 
21).  Nor  is  it  to  be  overlooked,  in  connection  with  this 
subject,  that  other  provisions  of  the  theocratic  economy 
relative  to  the  annual  festivals  would  be  taken  advantage 
of  by  those  in  whom  there  existed  already  a spirit  of 
dissatisfaction.  Even  within  to  limited  a locality  as 
Palestine,  there  must  have  been  inequalities  of  climate, 
which  must  have  considerably  affected  the  seasons,  more 
particularly  the  vintage  and  harvest,  with  which  the 
feasts  may  in  some  measure  have  interfered,  and  iii  so 
far  may  have  been  productive  of  discontent  between  the 
northern  and  southern  residents.  That  there  were  in- 
conveniences in  both  the  respects  now  mentioned  would 
indeed  appear  from  the  appeal  made  by  Jeroboam  to 
his  new  subjects,  when,  for  reasons  of  state  policy,  and 
m order  to  perpetuate  the  schism  by  making  it  religious 
as  well  as  political,  he  would  dissuade  them  from  at- 
tendance on  the  feasts  in  Judah:  “It  is  too  much  for 
yon  to  go  uj)  to  Jerusalem”  (1  Kings  xii,  28)  ; and  from 
the  fact  that  he  postponed  for  a whole  month  the  cele- 
bration of  the  feast  of  tabernacles  (vcr.  32),  a change  to 
which  it  is  believed  lie  was  induced,  or  in  the  adop- 
tion of  which  he  wras  at  least  greatly  aided,  by  the  cir- 
cumstance of  the  harvest  being  considerably  later  in  the 
northern  than  in  the  southern  districts  (Piet.  Bible,  note 
on  1 Kings  xii,  32). 

Again,  tlic  burdensome  exactions  in  the  form  of  ser- 
vice and  tribute  imposed  on  his  subjects  by  Solomon 


> 


ISRAEL 


G95 


ISRAEL 


for  his  extensive  buildings,  and  the  maintenance  of  his 
splendid  and  luxurious  court,  must  have  still  further 
deepened  this  disaffection,  which  originated  in  one  or 
other  of  the  causes  already  referred  to.  It  may  indeed 
be  assumed  that  this  grievance  was  of  a character  which 
appealed  to  the  malcontents  more  directly  than  any  oth- 
er; and  that  these  burdens,  required  especially  for  the 
beautifying  of  the  capital,  must  have  been  exceedingly 
disagreeable  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  provinces,  who 
did  not  in  any  way  participate  in  the  glories  in  support 
of  which  such  onerous  charges  were  required.  The  bur- 
dens thus  imposed  were  indeed  expressly  stated  to  be 
the  chief  ground  of  complaint  by  the  representatives  of 
Israel  headed  by  .Jeroboam,  who,  on  the  occasion  of  the 
coronation  at  Shechem,  waited  on  the  son  of  Solomon 
with  a view  to  obtain  redress  (1  Kings  xii,  4).  The 
long  smouldering  dissatisfaction  could  no  longer  be  re- 
pressed, and  a mitigation  of  their  burdens  was  imperi- 
ously demanded  by  the  people.  For  this  end  Jeroboam 
had  been  summoned,  at  the  death  of  Solomon,  from 
Egypt,  whose  presence  must  have  had  a marked  influ- 
ence on  the  issue,  although  it  may  be  a question  wheth- 
er Jeroboam  should  not  be  regarded  rather  as  an  instru- 
ment ealled  forth  by  the  occasion  than  as  himself  the 
instigator  of  the  revolt.  With  this  agrees  the  intima- 
tion made  to  him  from  the  Lord  many  years  before  by 
Ahijali  the  Shilonitc.  The  very  choice  of  Shccliem, 
within  the  territories  of  Ephraim,  as  the  coronation 
place  of  Rehoboam,  may  have  had  for  its  object  the  re- 
pression of  the  rebellious  spirit  in  the  northern  tribes  by 
means  of  so  grand  and  imposing  a ceremony. 

However  this  may  have  been,  or  in  whatever  degree 
the  causes  specified  may  have  severally  operated  in 
producing  the  revolt,  the  breach  now  made  was  never 
healed,  God  himself  expressly  forbidding  all  attempts 
on  the  part  of  Kelioboam  and  his  counsellors  to  subju- 
gate the  revolted  provinces  with  the  intimation,  “ This 
thing  is  from  me”  (1  Kings  xii,  24).  The  subsequent 
history  of  the  two  kingdoms  was  productive,  with  but 
slight  exceptions,  of  further  estrangement. 

II.  Extent  and  Resources  of  the  Kingdom  of  Israel. — 
The  area  of  Palestine,  even  at  its  utmost  extent  under 
Solomon,  was  very  circumscribed.  In  its  geographical 
relations  it  certainly  bore  no  comparison  whatever  to 
the  other  great  empires  of  antiquity,  nor  indeed  was 
there  any  proportion  between  its  size  and  the  mighty 
influences  which  have  emanated  from  its  soil.  Making 
allowance  for  the  territories  on  the  shore  of  the  Medi- 
terranean in  the  possession  of  the  Phoenicians,  the  area 
of  Palestine  did  not  much  exceed  13,000  square  miles. 
This  limited  extent,  it  might  be  shown,  however,  did 
the  present  subject  call  for  it,  rendered  that  land  more 
suitable  for  the  purposes  of  the  theocracy  than  if  it  were 
of  a far  larger  area.  What  precise  extent  of  territories 
was  embraced  in  the  kingdom  of  Israel  cannot  be  very 
easily  determined,  but  it  may  be  safely  estimated  as 
more  than  double  that  of  the  southern  kingdom,  or,  ac- 
cording to  a more  exact  ratio,  as  9 to  4.  Nor  is  it  easy 
to  specify  with  exactness  the  several  tribes  which  com- 
posed the  respective  kingdoms.  In  the  announcement 
made  by  Ahijah  to  Jeroboam,  he  is  assured  often  tribes, 
while  only  one  is  reserved  for  the  house  of  David ; but 
this  must  be  taken  only  in  a general  sense,  and  is  to  be 
interpreted  by  1 Kings  xii,  23  (compare  ver.  21) ; for  it 
would  appear  that  Simeon,  part  of  Dan,  and  the  greater 
part  of  Benjamin,  owing  doubtless  to  the  fact  that  Je- 
rusalem itself  was  situated  within  that  tribe,  formed 
portion  of  the  kingdom  of  Judah  (Ewald,  Geschichte,  iii, 
409).  It  is  to  be  noticed,  however,  that  Judah  was  the 
only  independent  tribe,  and  therefore  it  might  be  spoken 
of  as  the  one  which  constituted  the  kingdom  of  the 
house  of  David.  The  ten  tribes  nominally  assigned  to 
Israel  were  probably  Joseph  (—Ephraim  and  Manas- 
seh),  Issaehar,  Zebulun,  Asher,  Naphtali,  Benjamin,  Dan, 
Simeon,  Gad,  and  Reuben,  Levi  being  intentionally  omit- 
ted; the  ten  actually  embraced  in  it  setm  to  have  been 
Ephraim,  Manasseh  (East  and  West),  Issaehar,  Zebulon, 


Asher,  Naphtali,  Gad,  Reuben,  and  (in  part)  Dan.  With 
respect  to  the  conquests  of  David,  Moab  appears  to  have 
been  attached  to  the  kingdom  of  Israel  (2  Kings  iii,  4) ; 
as  much  of  Syria  as  remained  subject  to  Solomon  (see  1 
Kings  xi,  24)  would  probably  be  claimed  by  his  suc- 
cessor in  the  northern  kingdom ; and  Ammon,  though 
connected  with  Rehoboam  as  his  mother’s  native  land 
(2  Chron.  xii,  13),  and  though  afterwards  tributary  to 
Judah  (2  Chron.  xxvii,  5),  was  at  one  time  allied  (2 
Chron.  xx,  1),  we  know  not  how  closely  or  how  early, 
with  Moab.  The  sea-coast  between  Acclio  and  Japho 
remained  in  the  possession  of  Israel. 

With  regard  to  population,  again,  the  data  are  even 
more  defective  than  with  respect  to  territorial  extent. 
According  to  the  uncompleted  census  taken  in  the  reign 
of  David,  about  forty  years  previous  to  the  schism  of 
the  kingdom,  the  fighting  men  in  Israel  numbered 
800,000,  and  in  Judah  500,000  (2  Sam.  xxiv,  9);  but  in 
1 Chron.  xxi,  5,  G,  the  numbers  arc  differently  stated  at 

1.100.000  and  470,000  respectively,  with  the  intimation 
that  Levi  and  Benjamin  were  not  included  (comp,  xxvii, 
24).  As  bearing  more  directly  on  this  point,  Rehobo- 
am raised  an  army  of  180,000  men  out  of  Judah  and 
Benjamin  to  fight  against  Jeroboam  (1  Kings  xii,  21); 
and  again,  Abijah,  the  son  of  Rehoboam,  with  400,000 
men,  made  Avar  on  Jeroboam  at  the  head  of  an  army  of 

800.000  (2  Chron.  xiii,  3).  According  to  the  general 
laAvs  observable  in  such  cases,  these  numbers  may  be 
said  to  represent  an  aggregate  population  of  from  fire, 
and  a half  to  six  millions , of  which  about  one  third,  or 
tAvo  millions,  may  be.  fairly  arsigned  to  the  kingdom  of 
Judah  at  the  time  of  the  separation. 

Shechem  Avas  the  first  capital  of  the  ucav  kingdom  (1 
Kings  xii,  25),  venerable  for  its  traditions,  and  beauti- 
ful in  its  situation.  Subsequently  Tirzah,  whose  love- 
liness had  fixed  the  Avandering  gaze  of  Solomon  (Cant. 
A’i,  4),  became  the  royal  residence,  if  not  the  capital  of 
Jeroboam  (1  Kings  xiv,  17)  and  of  his  successors  (xv, 
33;  xvi,  8,  17,  23).  After  the  murder  of  Jeroboam’s 
son,  indeed,  Baaslia  seems  to  have  intended  to  fix  his 
capital  at  Kamah,  as  a conx'enient  place  for  annoying 
the  king  of  Judah,  whom  he  looked  on  as  his  only  dan- 
gerous enemy;  but  he  Avas  1'oreed  to  renounce  this  plan 
j (1  Kings  iv,  17,  21).  Samaria,  uniting  in  itself  the 
; qualities  of  beauty  and  fertility,  and  a commanding 
position,  Avas  chosen  by  Omri  (1  Kings  xvi,  24),  and  re- 
mained the  capital  of  the  kingdom  until  it  had  given 
the  last  proof  of  its  strength  by  sustaining  for  three 
years  the  onset  of  the  hosts  of  Assyria.  Jezrcel  xvas 
probably  only  a royal  residence  of  some  of  the  Israel- 
itish  kings.  It.  may  have  been  in  awe  of  the  ancient 
holiness  of  Shiloh  that  Jeroboam  forbore  to  pollute  the 
secluded  site  of  the  tabernacle  Avith  the  golden  calves, 
lie  chose  for  the  religious  capitals  of  his  kingdom  Dan. 
the  old  home  of  northern  schism,  and  Bethel,  a Benja- 
mite  city  not  far  from  Shiloh,  and  marked  out  by  history 
and  situation  as  the  rival  of  Jerusalem. 

III.  Political  and  Religions  Relations  of  the  Kingdom 
of  Israel. — But  whilst,  in  extent  of  territory  and  of  pop- 
ldation,  and  it  might  be  shown  also  in  various  other  re- 
spects, the  resources  of  the  northern  kingdom  Avcre  at 
tiie  Arery  least  double  those  of  its  southern  rival,  the 
latter  embraced  elements  of  strength  which  xvere  en- 
tirely lacking  in  the  other.  There  Avas  first  the  geo- 
graphical position  of  the  kingdom  of  Israel,  which  ex- 
posed its  northern  frontier  to  im-asions  on  the  part  of 
Syria  and  the  Assyrian  hosts.  But  more  than  this,  or 
any  exposure  to  attack  from  without,  xvere  the  dangers 
to  be  apprehended  from  the  polity  on  xA'hich  the  king- 
dom xvas  founded.  Jeroboam’s  public  sanction  of  idol- 
atry, and  his  other  interferences  Avith  fundamental  prin- 
ciples of  the  Mosaic  law,  more  especially  in  the  matter 
of  the  priesthood,  at  once  alienated  from  his  govern- 
ment ail  Avho  Avere  aycII  affected  to  that  economy,  and 
Avho  AA'ere  not  ready  to  subordinate  their  religion  to  any 
political  considerations.  Of  such  there  Avere  not  a few 
Avithin  the  territories  of  the  nexv  kingdom.  The  Le- 


696 


ISRAEL 


ISRAEL 


vites  in  particular  flecl  the  kingdom,  abandoning  their  | 
property  and  possessions:  and  so  did  many  others  be- 
sides ; “ such  as  set  their  hearts  to  seek  the  Lord  God 
of  Israel  came  to  Jerusalem,  to  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord 
God  of  their  fathers.  So  they  strengthened  the  king- 
dom of  Judah”  (2  G’hron.  xi,  13-17).  Not  only  was  one 
great  source  of  strength  thus  at  once  dried  up,  but  the 
strongly  conservating  principles  of  the  law  were  vio- 
lently shocked,  and  the  kingdom  more  than  ever  ex- 
posed to  the  encroachments  of  the  heathenism  which 
extended  along  its  frontier. 

One  element  of  weakness  in  the  kingdom  of  Israel 
was  the  number  of  tribes  of  which  it  was  composed, 
more  especially  after  they  had  renounced  those  princi- 
ples of  the  Mosaic  law  which,  while  preserving  the  in- 
dividuality of  the  tribes,  served  to  bind  them  together 
as  one  people.  Among  other  circumstances  unfavora- 
ble to  unity  was  the  want  of  a capital  in  which  all  had 
a common  interest,  and  with  which  they  were  connect- 
ed by  some  common  tie.  This  want  was  by  no  means 
compensated  by  the  religious  establishments  at  Bethel 
and  Dan.  But  it  is  in  respect  to  theocratic  and  relig- 
ious relations  that  the  weakness  of  the  kingdom  of  Is- 
rael specially  appears.  Any  sanction  which  the  usur- 
pation of  Jeroboam  may  have  derived  at  first  from  the 
announcement  made  to  him  by  the  prophet  Ahijali,  and 
afterwards  from  the  charge  given  to  Rehoboam  and  the 
men  of  Judah  not  to  fight  against  Israel,  because  the 
thing  was  from  the  Lord  (1  Kings  xii,  23),  must  have 
been  completely  taken  away  by  the  denunciations  of 
the  prophet  out  of  Judah  against  the  altar  at  Bethel  (1 
Kings  xiii,  1-10),  and  the  subsequent  announcements  of 
Ahijah  himself  to  Jeroboam,  who  failed  to  fulfil  the  con- 
ditions on  which  the  kingdom  was  given  him  (1  Kings 
xiv,  7-10).  The  setting  up  of  the  worship  of  the  calves, 
in  which  may  be  traced  the  influence  of  Jeroboam’s  resi- 
dence in  Egypt,  and  the  consecrating  of  priests  who 
could  have  no  moral  weight  with  their  fellow-subjects, 
and  were  chosen  only  for  their  subservience  to  the  royal 
will,  ■were  measures  by  no  means  calculated  to  consoli- 
date a power  from  which  the  divine  sanction  had  been 
expressly  withdrawn.  On  the  contrary,  they  led,  and 
very  speedily,  to  the  alienation  of  many  who  might  at 
the  outset  have  silently  acquiesced  in  the  revolution, 
even  if  they  had  not  fully  approved  of  it.  The  large 
migration  which  ensued  into  Judah  of  all  who  were  fa- 
vorable to  the  fonner  institutions  must  still  further  have 
aggravated  the  evil,  as  all  vigorous  opposition  would 
thenceforth  cease  to  the  downward  and  destructive  tend- 
ency of  the  anti-theocratic  policy.  The  natural  result 
of  the  course  appears  in  the  fact  that  the  step  taken  by 
Jeroboam  was  never  retraced  by  any  of  his  successors, 
one  after  another  following  the  example  thus  set  to 
them,  so  that  Jeroboam  is  emphatically  and  frequently 
characterized  in  Scripture  as  the  man  “who  made  Is- 
rael to  sin,”  while  his  successors  are  described  as  follow- 
ing in  “the  sin  of  Jeroboam.” 

Further,  as  the  calves  of  Jeroboam  are  referable  to 
Egypt,  so  the  worship  of  Baal,  which  was  introduced  by 
Ahab,  the  seventh  of  the  Israelitish  kings,  had  its  origin 
in  the  Tyrian  alliance  formed  by  that  monarch  through 
his  marric  ge  with  Jezebel,  daughter  of  Ethbaal,  king  of 
Nidon.  Hitherto  the  national  religion  was  ostensibly 
the  worship  of  Jehovah  under  the  representation  of  the 
calves;  but  under  this  new  reign  every  attempt  was 
made  to  extirpate  this  worship  entirely  by  the  destruc- 
tion of  God’s  prophets  and  the  subversion  of  his  altars. 
It  was  to  meet  this  new  phase  of  things  that  the  stren- 
uous agency  of  Elijah,  Elisha,  and  their  associates  was 
directed,  and  assumed  a quite  peculiar  form  of  prophetic 
ministration,  though  still  the  success  was  but  partial  and 
temporary.  See,  however,  under  Elijah  and  Elisha. 

IV.  Decay  and  Dissolution  of  the  Kinydom  of  Israel. 
— The  kingdom  of  Israel  developed  no  new  power.  It 
was  but  a portion  of  David’s  kingdom  deprived  of  manv 
elements  of  strength.  Its  frontier  was  as  open  and  as 
widely  extended  as  before,  but  it  wanted  a capital  for  ! 


the  seat  of  organized  power.  Its  territory  was  as  fer- 
tile  and  as  tempting  to  the  spoiler,  but  its  people  were 
less  united  and  patriotic.  A corrupt  religion  poisoned 
the  source  of  national  life.  While  less  reverence  attend- 
ed on  a new  and  unconsecrated  king,  and  less  respect 
was  felt  for  an  aristocracy  reduced  by  the  retirement  of 
the  Levites,  the  army  which  David  found  hard  to  con- 
trol rose  up  unchecked  in  the  exercise  of  its  wilful 
strength ; and  thus  eight  houses,  each  ushered  in  by  a 
revolution,  occupied  the  throne  in  quick  succession. 
Tyre  ceased  to  be  an  ally  when  the  alliance  was  no  lon- 
ger profitable  to  the  merchant  city.  Moab  and  Ammon 
yielded  tributq  only  while  under  compulsion.  A pow- 
erful neighbor,  Damascus,  sat  armed  at  the  gate  of  Is- 
rael; and  beyond  Damascus  might  be  discerned  the 
rising  strength  of  the  first  great  monarchy  of  the  world. 

The  history  of  the  kingdom  of  Israel  is  therefore  the 
history  of  its  decay  and  dissolution.  In  no  true  sense 
did  it  manifest  a principle  of  progress,  save  only  in 
swerving  more  and  more  completely  from  the  course 
marked  out  by  Providence  and  revelation  for  the  seed 
of  Abraham ; and  yet  the  history  is  interesting  as  show- 
ing how,  notwithstanding  the  ever-widening  breach  be- 
tween the  two  great  branches  of  the  one  community, 
the  divine  purposes  concerning  them  were  accomplish- 
ed. That  a polity  constituted  as  was  that  of  the  north- 
ern kingdom  contained  in  it  potent  elements  of  decay 
must  be  self-evident,  even  were  the  fact  less  clearly 
marked  on  every  page  of  its  history. 

There  is  reason  to  believe  that  Jeroboam  carried  back 
with  him  into  Israel  the  good-will,  if  not  the  substantial 
assistance  of  Shishak,  and  this  will  account  for  his  es- 
caping the  storm  from  Egypt  which  swept  over  Reho- 
boam in  his  fifth  year  (2  Chron.  xii,  2-9).  During  that 
first  period  Israel  was  far  from  quiet  within.  Although 
the  ten  tribes  collectively  had  decided  in  favor  of  Jero- 
boam, great  numbers  of  individuals  remained  attached 
to  the  family  of  David  and  to  the  worship  at  Jerusalem, 
and  in  the  three  first  years  of  Rehoboam  migrated  into 
Judah  (2  Chron.  xi,  1(5, 17).  Perhaps  it  was  not  until 
this  process  commenced  that  Jeroboam  was  worked  up 
to  the  desperate  measure  of  erecting  rival  sanctuaries 
with  visible  idols  (1  Kings  xii,  27) ; a measure  which 
met  the  usual  ill-success  of  profane  state-craft,  and  ag- 
gravated the  evil  which  he  feared.  Jeroboam  had  not 
sufficient  force  of  character  in  himself  to  make  a lasting 
impression  on  his  people.  A king,  but  not  a founder  of 
a dynasty,  he  aimed  at  nothing  beyond  securing  his 
present  elevation.  "Without  any  ambition  to  share  in 
the  commerce  of  Tyre,  or  to  compete  with  the  growing 
power  of  Damascus,  or  even  to  complete  the  humilia- 
tion of  the  helpless  monarch  whom  he  had  deprived  of 
half  a kingdom,  Jeroboam  acted  entirely  on  a defensive 
policy.  He  attempted  to  give  his  subjects  a centre 
which  they  wanted  for  their  political  allegiance,  in  She- 
cliem  or  in  Tirzah.  He  sought  to  change  merely  so 
much  of  their  ritual  as  was  inconsistent  with  his  author- 
ity over  them.  But,  as  soon  as  the  golden  calves  were 
set.  up,  the  priests,  and  Levites,  and  many  religions  Is- 
raelites (2  Chron.  xi,  16)  left  their  country,  and  the  dis- 
astrous emigration  was  not  effectually  checked  even  by 
the  attempt  of  Baasha  to  huilcl  a fortress  (2  Chron.  xvi, 
6)  at  Ramah.  A new  priesthood  was  introduced  (1 
Kings  xii,  31)  absolutely  dependent  on  the  king  (Amos 
vii,  13) ; not  forming,  as  under  the  Mosaic  law,  a landed 
aristocracy,  not  respected  by  the  people,  and  unable 
either  to  withstand  the  oppression  or  to  strengthen  the 
weakness  of  a king.  A priesthood  created  and  a ritual 
devised  for  secular  purposes  had  no  hold  whatever  on 
the  conscience  of  the  people.  To  meet  their  spiritual 
cravings  a succession  of  prophets  was  raised  up,  great  in 
their  poverty,  their  purity,  their  austerity,  their  self-de- 
pendence, their  moral  influence,  but  imperfectly  organ- 
ized— a rod  to  correct  and  check  the  civil  government, 
not,  as  they  might  have  been  under  happier  circum- 
stances, a staff  to  support  it.  The  army  soon  learned 
its  power  to  dictate  to  the  isolated  monarch  and  disci- 


ISRAEL 


697 


ISRAEL 


nited  people.  Although  Jeroboam,  the  founder  of  the 
kingdom,  himself  reigned  nearly  twenty-two  years,  j-et. 
liis  sou  and  successor  Nadab  was  violently  cut  off  after 
a brief  reign  of  less  than  two  years,  and  with  him  the 
whole  house  of  Jeroboam. 

Thus  speedily  closed  the  first  dynasty,  and  it  was  but 
a type  of  those  which  followed.  Eight  houses,  each 
ushered  in  by  a revolution,  occupied  the  throne  in  rapid 
succession,  the  army  being  frequently  the  prime  movers 
in  these  transactions.  Thus  Baasha,  in  the  midst  of 
the  army  at  Gibbethon,  slew  Nadab,  the  son  of  Jero- 
boam ; and,  again,  Zimri,  a captain  of  chariots,  slew 
Elah,  the  son  and  successor  of  Baasha,  and  reigned  only 
seven  days,  during  which  time,  however,  he  smote  all 
the  posterity  and  kindred  of  his  predecessor,  and  ended 
his  own  days  by  suicide  (1  Kings  xvi,  18).  Omri,  the 
captain  of  the  host,  was  chosen  to  punish  the  usurper 
Zimri,  and  after  a civil  war  of  four  years  he  prevailed 
over  his  other  rival  Tibni,  the  choice  of  half  the  people. 
Omri,  the  sixth  in  order  of  the  Israelitish  kings,  found- 
ed a more  lasting  dynasty,  for  it  endured  for  forty-five 
years,  he  having  been  succeeded  by  his  son  Ahab,  of 
whom  it  is  recorded  that  he  “ did  more  to  provoke  the 
Lord  God  of  Israel  to  anger  than  all  the  kings  of  Israel 
that  were  before  him”  (1  Kings  xvi,  83);  and  he,  again, 
by  his  son  Ahaziah,  who,  after  a reign  of  less  than  two 
years,  died  from  the  effects  of  a fall,  and,  leaving  no  son, 
was  succeeded  by  bis  brother  Jehoram,  who  reigned 
twelve  years,  until  slain  by  Jehu,  the  captain  of  the 
army  at  Ramotli-Gilead,  who  also  executed  the  total 
destruction  of  the  family  of  Ahab,  which  perished  like 
those  of  Jeroboam  and  of  Baasha  (2  Kings  ix,  9). 

Meanwhile  the  relations  between  the  rival  kingdoms 
were,  as  might  be  expected,  of  a very  unfriendly  char- 
acter. “There  was  war  between  Eehoboam  and  Jero- 
boam all  their  days"  (1  Kings  xiv,  30);  so  also  between 
Asa  and  Baasha  (1  Kings  xv,  14,  32).  The  first  men- 
tion of  peace  was  that  made  by  Jehoshaphat  with  Ahab 
(1  Kings  xxii,  44),  and  which  was  continued  between 
their  two  successors.  The  princes  of  Omri’s  house  cul- 
tivated an  alliance  with  the  contemporary  kings  of  Ju- 
dah, which  was  cemented  by  the  marriage  of  Jehoram 
and  Athaliah,  and  marked  by  the  community  of  names 
among  the  royal  children.  Ahab’s  Tyrian  alliance 
strengthened  him  with  the  counsels  of  the  masculine 
mind  of  Jezebel,  but  brought  him  no  further  support. 

The  kingdom  of  Israel  suffered  also  from  foreign  ene- 
mies. In  the  reign  of  Omri  the  Syrians  had  made 
themselves  masters  of  a portion  of  the  land  of  Israel  (1 
Kings  xx,  33),  and  had  proceeded  so  far  as  to  erect 
streets  for  themselves  in  Samaria,  which  had  just  been 
made  the  capital.  Further  incursions  were  checked  by 
Ahab,  who  concluded  a peace  with  the  Syrians  which 
lasted  three  years  (1  Kings  xxii,  1),  until  that  king,  in 
league  with  Jehoshaphat,  king  of  Judah,  attempted  to 
wrest  Ramotli-Gilead  out  of  their  hands,  an  act  which 
cost  him  his  life.  The  death  of  Ahab  was  followed  by 
the  revolt  of  the  Moabites  (2  Kings  i,  4),  who  were 
again,  however,  subjugated  by  Jehoram,  in  league  with 
Jehoshaphat.  Again  the  Syrians  renewed  their  inroads 
on  the  kingdom  of  Israel,  and  even  besieged  Samaria, 
but  fled  through  panic.  In  the  reign  of  Jehu  “ the  Lord 
began  to  cut  Israel  short : and  Hazael  smote  them  in  all 
the  coasts  of  Israel”  (2  Kings  x,  32).  Their  troubles 
from  that  quarter  increased  still  further  during  the  fol- 
lowing reign,  when  the  Syrians  reduced  them  to  the  ut- 
most extremities  (2  Kings  xiii,  7).  To  this  more  pros- 
perous days  succeeded,  with  a reverse  to  Judah,  whose 
king  presumptuously  declared  war  against  Israel. 

Under  Jeroboam  II,  who  reigned  forty-two  years,  the 
affairs  of  the  northern  kingdom  revived.  “ He  restored 
the  coast  of  Israel,  from  the  entering  of  Hamath  unto 
the  sea  of  the  plain  ; ...  he  recovered  Damascus,  and 
Hamath,  which  belonged  to  Judah,  for  Israel”  (2  Kings 
xiv,  25,  28).  Damascus  was  by  this  time  probably 
weakened  by  the  advance  of  the  power  of  Assyria. 
This  period  of  prosperity  was  followed  by  another  of  a 


totally  different  character.  Jeroboam’s  son  and  suc- 
cessor Zachariab,  the  last  of  the  dynasty  of  Jehu,  was 
assassinated,  after  a reign  of  six  months,  by  Shallum, 
who,  after  a reign  of  only  one  month,  was  slain  by  Men- 
ahem,  whose  own  son  and  successor  Pekahiah  was  in 
turn  murdered  by  Fekah,  one  of  his  captains,  who  was 
himself  smitten  by  Hosliea.  In  the  days  of  Menahem, 
and  afterwards  of  Pekah,  the  Assyrians  are  seen  extend- 
ing their  power  over  Israel ; first  under  Pul,  to  whom 
Menahem  paid  a tribute  of  threescore  talents  of  silver, 
that  his  hand  might  be  with  him  to  confirm  the  king- 
dom in  his  hand  (2  Kings  xv,  19).  Now  the  Assyrians 
are  found  pushing  their  conquests  in  every  direction; 
at  one  time,  in  the  reign  of  Pekah,  leading  away  into 
captivity  a part  of  the  inhabitants  of  Israel  (2  Kings 
xv,  29),  and  again  coming  to  the  assistance  of  Ahaz, 
king  of  Judah,  then  besieged  in  Jerusalem  by  the  Isra- 
elites, in  conjunction  with  the  Syrians,  who  had  some- 
how recovered  their  former  ascendency.  See  Syria. 
This  interposition  led  to  the  destruction  of  Damascus, 
and  in  the  succeeding  weak  reign  of  Hosliea,  who  had 
formed  some  secret  alliance  with  Egypt  which  was  of- 
fensive to  the  Assyrian  monarch,  to  the  destruction  of 
Samaria,  after  a three-years’  siege,  by  Shalmaneser,  and 
the  removal  of  its  inhabitants  to  Assyria ; and  thus  ter- 
minated the  kingdom  of  Israel,  after  an  existence  of  253 
years.  Some  gleanings  of  the  ten  tribes  yet  remained 
in  the  land  after  so  many  years  of  religious  decline, 
moral  debasement,  national  degradation,  anarchy,  blood- 
shed, and  deportation.  Even  these  were  gathered  up 
by  the  conqueror  and  carried  to  Assyria,  never  again,  as 
a distinct  people,  to  occupy  their  portion  of  that  goodly 
and  pleasant  land  which  their  forefathers  won  under 
Joshua  from  the  heathen.  (See  Ewald,  Einleituny  in 
die  Geschichte  ties  Volkes  Israel,  and  Geschichte  des  Yolkes 
Israel  bis  Christus,  Getting.  1851 ; also  Witsii,  Aticd^v- 
Xov,  de  decern  tribubns  Israel , in  his  ^Egyptiaca,  p.  308 
sq. ; J.  G.  Klaiber,  Ilist.  regni  Ephraim.,  Stuttg.  1833.) 
— Fairbairn;  Kitto;  Smith. 

V.  Chronological  Difficulties  of  the  Reigns  as  compared 
with  those  of  Judah. — These  will  mostly  appear  by  a 
simple  inspection  of  the  annexed  table,  where  the  num- 
bers given  in  the  columns  headed  “ nominal”  are  those 
contained  in  the  express  words  of  Scripture.  These 
and  other  less  obvious  discrepancies  will  be  found  ex- 
plained under  the  titles  of  the  respective  kings  in  this 
Cyclopcedia,  but  it  may  be  well  here  to  recapitulate  the 
most  prominent  of  them  together. 

1.  The  length  of  Jeroboam’s  reign  is  stated  in  1 Kings 
xiv,  20  to  have  been  twenty-two  years,  which  appear 
to  have  been  reckoned  from  the  same  point  as  Rehobo- 
ani’s  (i.  e.  in  Nisan) ; whereas  they  were  only  current, 
since  Rehoboam’s  accession  took  place  somewhat  prior 
to  that  of  Jeroboam.  This  is  confirmed  by  the  fact 
that  the  reigns  of  Rehoboam  (seventeen  years,  1 Kings 
xiv,  21),  and  Abijah  (three  years,  1 Kings  xv.  2)  were 
but  twenty  years,  and  Nadab  succeeded  Jeroboam  in 
Asa’s  second  year  (ver.  25).  In  like  manner  Nadab’s 
two  nominal  years  (ver.  25)  are  current,  or,  in  reality, 
little  over  one  year;  for  Baasha  succeeded  him  in  Asa’s 
third  year  (verse  28,  33).  .So,  again,  Baasha’s  twenty- 
four  years  of  reign  (verse  33)  must  be  reduced,  for  pur- 
poses of  continuous  reckoning,  to  twaitv-three ; for 
Elah  succeeded  him  in  Asa’s  twenty-sixth  year  (1  Kings 
xvi,  8).  Once  more,  Elah’s  two  years  (ver.  8)  must  be 
computed  as  but  one  full  year,  for  Zimri  slew  and  suc- 
ceeded him  in  Asa’s  twenty-seventh  year  (ver.  10,  15). 
The  cause  of  this  surplusage  in  these  reigns  appears  to 
be  that  at  some  point  during  the  reign  of  Jeroboam  the 
beginning  of  the  calendar  for  the  regnal  years  of  the 
Israelitish  reign  was  changed  (see  1 Kings  xii,  82,  33) 
from  the  spring  (the  Hebrew  sacred  year)  to  the  fall 
(their  older  and  secular  year'),  so  that  they  overlap 
those  of  the  kings  of  Judah  by  more  than  half  a year. 
The  reigns  of  the  line  of  Judah  must  therefore  be  taken 
as  the  standard,  and  the  parallel  line  of  Israel  adjusted 
by  it.  (The  numbers  thirty-five  and  thirty-six  in  2 


ISRAELITE 


ISRAEL  698 


COMPARATIVE  TABLE  OF  THE  CHRONOLOGY  OF  THE  KINGS  OF  JUDAH  AND  ISRAEL. 


ceding  iting 

Length 
of  Reign. 

*oT 

Commencement 
of  Reign. 

B.C. 

Kings 

Judah. 

Age 

Accession. 

Length. 

of 

Reign. 

Year  of  pre- 
ceding King 
of  Israel. 

Queen  Mother 

Judah. 

N^Li- 

Real. 

Nomi- 

Real. 

Uah- 

Clin- 

Wi- 

£ct'. 

Nom- 

inal. 

Real. 

inah* 

Real. 

inat 

Real. 

00 

975 

976 

975 

973 

Rehoboam 

41 

41+ 

17 

11+ 

Naamah. 

958 

959 

957 

956-5 

Abijah 

3 

3 

18th 

18th 

Mnachah. 

955 

956 

955 

953 

Asa 

41 

41 

20th 

20th 

Maachah. 

2d 

2d 

2 

1 Nadab 

954 

955 

954 

951 

3d 

3d 

24 

23  Baasha 

953 

954 

953 

950 

26th 

1 El  ah 

930 

930 

930 

927 

27th 

27th 

7 d. 

7 d. 

Zimri 

929 

930 

92S 

926 

4 

Tibni 

.. 

.. 

926 

31st 

31st 

12 

7 

Omri 

929 

930 

928 

9*22 

*22 

20 

918 

919 

91 S 

915 

914 

915 

914 

912 

Jehoshaphat 

35 

35 

25 

25 

4th 

4th 

Azubah. 

17  th 

17th 

2 

1 

Ahaziah 

898 

S96 

S97 

S95 

ISth 

ISth 

12 

12- 

Jehoram 

896 

895 

S96 

S94 

892 

891 

889 

SS7-6 

Jehoram 

32 

37 

8 

3 

5th 

8-9th 

8S5 

884 

S85 

SS4 

Ahaziah 

22 

■22+ 

1 

1 

12th 

11th 

Athaliah. 

28 

28 

Jehu 

SS4 

883 

SSI 

SS3-2 

(Athafiab) 

6 

6 

878 

877 

87S 

877-6 

Jehoash 

7 

7" 

40 

40— 

7th 

7th 

Zibiah. 

23d 

23d 

17 

17— 

Jehoahaz 

S56 

855 

S56 

855-4 

37th 

39th 

16 

16— 

Jehoash 

841 

S39 

S40 

S3S 

S39 

s:»7 

S3S 

S37 

Amaziah 

25 

25 

29 

29 

2d 

2d 

Jehoaddan. 

15th 

15th 

41 

41 

Jeroboam  II 

825 

823 

825 

S23-2 

S10 

SOS 

S09 

SOS 

Uzziah 

16 

16 

52 

52 

27th 

15th 

Jecholiah. 

[111  [Interregnum] 

7S2-1 

3Sth 

3Sth 

6 m. 

6 m.  Zecbariah 

773 

771 

772 

770 

39  th 

..■vih 

1 m. 

1 m.  Shallum 

772 

770 

771 

770 

39th 

39th 

10 

10+  Mena  hem 

772 

770 

771 

770-69 

50  th 

50th 

2 

2 

Pekahiah 

761 

759 

760 

759-S 

52d 

52d 

20 

20  . 

jPekah 

759 

757 

758 

757-6 

758 

756 

758 

756-5 

Jot  ham 

25 

50 

16 

16+ 

2d 

2d 

Jernsha. 

74*2 

741 

741 

740 

Ahaz 

‘20 

36 

16 

16 

17th 

17th 

[8] 

[Interregnum] 

737-6 

12th 

12  th 

9 

9— 

Hoshea 

730 

730 

729 

729-S 

726 

726 

725 

726 

Hezekiah 

25 

25 

29 

29 

3d 

3d 

Abi. 

6th 

6th 

Samaria  taken 

721 

721 

721 

720 

69S 

697 

696 

697-6 

Mnnasseh 

1*2 

12 

55 

55 

Ilephzibah. 

643 

642 

641 

642-1 

Amou 

22 

22 

2 

2 

Meshnlle- 

meth. 

641 

640 

639 

640-39 

Josiah 

S 

8 

31 

31 

Jedidah. 

610 

609 

609 

609 

Jehoahaz 

23 

23 

3 m. 

3 m. 

Humntal. 

610 

609 

609 

609-8 

Jehoiakim 

25 

25 

11 

10+ 

Zebndah. 

599 

598 

598 

598 

Jehoiachin 

18 

IS 

3 m. 

3 m. 

Nehushta. 

599 

59  S 

59S 

598 

Zedekiah 

21 

21 

11 

10+ 

Hamutal. 

6SS 

587 

5S6 

5S8 

Jerusalem 

destroyed. 

Chron.  xv,  10;  xvi,  1,  are  evidently  a transcriber’s  er- 
ror for  twenty-five  anil  twenty-six;  see  1 Kings  xvi. 3). 

2.  Omri’s  reign  is  stated  in  1 Kings  xvi,  23  to  have 
lasted  twelve  years,  beginning,  not,  as  the  text  seems 
to  indicate,  in  Asa’s  thirty-first  year,  but  in  his  twenty- 
seventh  (for  Zimri  reigned  but  seven  days),  since  Ahab 
succeeded  him  in  Asa’s  thirty-eighth  (ver.  29),  making 
these  really  but  eleven  full  years,  computed  as  above. 
The  thirty-first  of  Asa  is  meant  as  the  date  of  Omri’s 
sole  or  undisputed  reign  on  the  death  of  his  rival  Tibni, 
after  four  years  of  contest.  His  six  years  of  reign  in 
Tirzali  (same  verse)  are  dated  from  this  latter  point, 
and  are  mentioned  in  opposition  to  his  removal  of  his 
capital  at  the  end  of  this  last  time  to  Samaria  (ver.  24), 
where,  accordingly,  he  reigned  one  full  or  two  current 
years,  still  computed  as  above.  This  last-named  fact  is 
again  the  key  to  the  discrepancy  in  the  length  of  his 
successor  Allah’s  reign,  which  is  set  down  in  ver.  29  as 
twenty-two  years  “ in  Samaria for  they  date  from  the 
change  of  capital  to  that  place  (Ahab  having  probably 
been  at  that  time  appointed  viceroy),  being  in  reality 
only  a small  fraction  more  than  twenty  years.  This 
appears  from  the  combination  of  the  residue  of  Asa’s 
reign  (41  —38-3 ; comp,  also  1 Kings  xxii,  41)  and  the 
seventeenth  of  Jehoshaphat,  when  Ahaziah  succeeded 
Ahab  (l  Kings  xxii,  51).  Ahaziah’s  two  years  (same 
verse)  arc  to  be  computed  as  current,  or  one  full  year, 
on  the  same  principle  as  above. 

The  other  difficulties  relate  to  minute  textual  dis- 
crepancies, not  important  to  the  chronology;  some  of 
them  involve  the  supposition  of  interregna.  They  will 
all  be  i Hind  fully  discussed  under  the  names  of  the  re- 
spective kings  to  whose  reigns  they  belong.  For  a 
complete  \ indication  and  adjustment  of  all  the  textual 
numbers  (save  two  or  three  universally  admitted  to  be 
corrupt)  by  means  of  actual  tabular  construction,  see 


| the  Afeth.  Quart.  Review , Oct.  1856.  See  also  Judah, 
Kingdom  ok. 

The  chronology  of  the  kings  has  been  minutely  in- 
vestigated by  Usher,  Chronologia  Sacra  (in  his  1 1 Torhs, 
xii,  95-144) ; by  Lightfoot,  Order  of  the  Texts  of  the  0. 
T.  (in  IUojZ’s,  i,  77-130) ; by  Hales,  New  Analysis  of 
Chronology,  ii,  372-447 ; by  Clinton,  Fasti  Hellenici , iii, 
Append.  § 5;  by  11.  Browne,  Ordo  Seeclorum,  chap,  iv; 
and  by  Wolff,  in  the  Studim  it.  Krit.  (1858,  iv.)  See 
Chronology. 

Israel  ben-Samuel  Maghrebi,  a Jewish  writ- 
er of  the  Karaitic  sect,  flourished  at  the  opening  of  the 
14th  century,  at  Kahira.  He  deserves  our  notice  as  the 
author  of  works  on  the  Jewish  laws  and  traditions,  in 
which  he  advanced  the  peculiar  theories  of  the  Kara- 
ites. Thus,  in  his  work  fYizbn  (written  about 

1306),  he  asserts  that  the  animal,  if  killed  according  to 
law,  and  eaten  according  to  prescription,  develops  it- 
self in  man  to  a higher  state  of  being.  The  “shochet” 
(the  person  killing  the  animal)  must,  however.be  a be- 
liever of  the  migration  of  the  souls  of  animals  into  the 
souls  of  men,  else  it  can  not  only  not  take  effect,  but 
makes  the  meat  unfit  for  food.  But  it  is  also  as  the 
interpreter  of  the  matrimonial  laws  that  he  ranks  high 
among  the  Karaites.  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  tier  Juden,  vii, 
322.  (J.  11.  W.) 

Is'raelite  (Itch.  YisreelT,  2 Sam.  xvii, 

25;  once  [Numb.xxv,  14]  bx+L"'  TTr'X,  man  of  Israel, 
i.  e.  male  Israelite;  fern.  rPlSXPb?,  “ Israelitish  wom- 
an,” Lev.  xxiv,  10 ; Sept,  and  New  Test.  T <7prr7/\iV?jr),  a 
descendant  of  Jacob,  anil  therefore  a member  of  the  cho- 
sen nation,  for  which,  however,  the  simple  name  Isra- 
el (q.  v.)  is  oftener  employed  in  a collective  sense,  but 
with  various  degrees  of  extension  at  different  times: 
(1.)  ’fhe  twelve  tribes  descended  from  Jacob's  sons, 


ISRAELITISH 


699 


ISSACIIAR 


called  “ Israel”  already  in  Egypt  (Exod.  iii,  16),  and  so 
throughout  the  Pentateuch  and  in  the  books  of  Joshua, 
Judges,  Samuel,  and  Kiugs,  often  with  the  explicit  ad- 
dition “ all ” Israel.  (2.)  The  larger  portion,  or  ten 
northern  tribes,  after  the  death  of  Saul  (2  Sam.  ii,  9,  10, 
17,  28),  a distinction  that  prevailed  even  under  David 
(2  Sam.  xix,  40).  (3.)  More  definitely  the  schismatical 
portion  of  the  nation  (consisting  of  all  the  tribes  but 
Judah  [including  Simeon]  and  Benjamin),  which  es- 
tablished a separate  monarchy  at  Samaria  after  the 
death  of  Solomon  (1  Kings  xii,  19).  Seldom  does  the 
legitimate  kingdom  of  Judah  appear  in  the  sacred  nar- 
rative under  this  appellation  (2  Cliron.  xii,  1 ; xv,  17). 
{4.)  After  the  Exile,  the  two  branches  of  the  nation  be- 
came again  blended,  both  having  been  carried  away  to 
the  same  or  neighboring  regions,  and  are  therefore  des- 
ignated by  the  ancient  title  without  distinction  in  Ezra, 
Neliemiah,  and  1 Maccabees.  Gradually,  however,  the 
name  “Jews”  (q.  v.)  supplanted  this  appellation,  espe- 
cially among  foreigners.  (5.)  In  the  N.  Test,  the  term 
“ Israel”  and  “ Israelite”  is  used  of  the  true  theocracy  or 
spiritual  people  (2  Cor.  xi,  22). — Winer,  i,  6 1 7.  See  He- 
brew. 

Israeli'tish  (Lev.  xxiv,  10  sq.).  See  Israelite. 

Xs'sachar,  the  name  of  two  men  in  the  Bible,  and 
of  the  descendants  of  one  of  them,  and  the  region  inhab- 
ited by  them. 

1.  The  ninth  son  of  Jacob  and  the  fifth  of  Leah  ; the 
first  born  to  Leah  after  the  interval  which  occurred  in 
the  births  of  her  children  (Gen.  xxx,  17 ; comp,  xxix, 
35).  lie  was  born  in  Padan-Aram  early  in  B.C.  1914. 
In  Genesis  he  is  not  mentioned  after  his  birth,  and  the 
few  verses  in  Chronicles  devoted  to  the  tribe  contain 
merely  a brief  list  of  its  chief  men  and  heroes  in  the 
reign  of  David  (1  Chron.  vii,  1-5).  At  the  descent  into 
Egypt  four  sons  are  ascribed  to  him,  who  founded  the 
four  chief  families  of  the  tribe  (Gen.  xlvi,  13;  Numb, 
xxvi,  23,  25;  1 Chron.  vii,  1). 

Form  and  Signification  of  the  Name. — Both  are  pecul- 
iar. The  form  is  Ijr.'1  [i.  e.  Yissaskar' ; if  pointed 
as  would  be  regular,  **!22t2“t]  : such  is  the  invariable 
spelling  of  the  name  in  the  Hebrew,  the  Samaritan  Co- 
dex and  Version,  the  Targums  of  Onkelos  and  Pseudo- 
Jonathan,  but  the  Masorctes  have  pointed  it  so  as  to 
supersede  the  second  S,  “2*2127,  Yissa[s]kar' ; Sept, 
’laadyop,  N.  T.  ’I 'may dp,  Josephus  laaaycrpic  (.1  nt.  v, 
I,  22),  referring  to  the  tribal  territory;  Vulg.  Isachitr. 
(See  Gescnius,  Thes.  Ifeb.  p.  1331.) 

As  is  the  case  with  each  of  the  sons  of  Jacob,  the 
name  is  recorded  as  bestowed  on  account  of  .a  circum- 
stance connected  with  the  birth.  But,  as  may  be  also 
noticed  in  more  than  one  of  the  others,  two  explana- 
tions seem  to  be  combined  in  the  narrative,  which  even 
then  is  not  in  exact  accordance  with  the  requirements 
of  the  name.  “ God  hath  given  me  ray  hire  (“2*2,  sd- 
kdr)  . . . and  she  called  his  name  Issachar,”  is  the  rec- 
ord; but  in  verse  18  that  “hire”  is  for  the  surrender  of 
her  maid  to  her  husband,  while  in  verse  14-17  it  is  for 
the  discovery  and  bestowal  of  the  mandrakes.  Besides, 
as  indicated  above,  the  name  in  its  original  form— Isas- 
kar  — rebels  against  this  interpretation,  an  interpreta- 
tion which,  to  be  consistent,  requires  the  form  subse- 
quently imposed  on  the  word,  Is-sachar.  The  verbal 
allusion  is  not  again  brought  forward,  as  it  is  with  Dan, 
Asher,  etc.,  in  the  blessings  of  Jacob  and  Moses.  In  the 
former  only  it  is  perhaps  allowable  to  discern  a faint 
echo  of  the  sound  of  “ Issachar”  in  the  word  shikmo — 
“ his  shoulder”  (Gen.  xlix,  15).  The  words  occur  again 
almost  identically  in  2 Chron.  xv,  7,  and  Jer.  xxxi,  16: 
"G2  27  = “ there  is  a reward  for;”  A.V.  “shall  be  re- 
warded.” An  expansion  of  the  story  of  the  mandrakes, 
with  curious  details,  will  be  found  in  the  Test  amentum 
Isue/iur  (Fabricius,  Cod.  Pseudepigr.  p.  620-623).  They 
were  ultimately  deposited  “in  the  house  of  the  Lord”  (ac- 
cording to  the  same  legend),  whatever  that  may  mean. 


Tribe,  of  Issachar. — Issachar’s  place  during  the  Jour- 
ney to  Canaan  was  on  the  east  of  the  tabernacle,  with 
his  brothers  Judah  and  Zebulun  (Numb,  ii,  5),  the  group 
moving  foremost  in  the  march  (x,  15),  and  having  a 
common  standard,  which,  according  to  the  Rabbinical 
tradition,  was  of  the  three  colors  of  sardine,  topaz,  and 
carbuncle,  inscribed  with  the  names  of  the  three  tribes, 
and  bearing  the  figure  of  a lion’s  whelp  (see  Targum 
Pseudo-Jon.  on  Numb,  ii,  3).  At  this  time  the  captain 
of  the  tribe  was  Nethaneel  ben-Zuar  (Numb,  i,  8 ; ii,  5 ; 
vii,  18;  x,  15).  He  was  succeeded  by  Igal  ben-Joseph, 
who  went  as  representative  of  his  tribe  among  the  spies 
(xiii,  7),  and  he  again  by  Paltiel  ben-Azzan,  who  assist- 
ed Joshua  in  apportioning  the  land  of  Canaan  (xxxiv, 
26).  Issachar  was  one  of  the  six  tribes  who  were  to 
stand  on  Mount  Gerizim  during  the  ceremony  of  bless- 
ing and  cursing  (Dent,  xxvii,  12).  He  was  still  in  com- 
pany with  Judah,  Zebulun  being  opposite  on  Ebal. 
The  number  of  the  fighting  men  of  Issachar  when  taken 
in  the  census  at  Sinai  was  54,100.  During  the  journey 
they  seem  to  have  steadily  increased,  anil  after  the  mor- 
tality at  Poor  they  amounted  to  64,300,  being  inferior  to 
none  but  Judah  and  Dan — to  the  latter  by  100  souls 
only.  The  numbers  given  in  1 Chron.  vii,  2,  4,  5,  prob- 
ably the  census  of  Joab,  amount  in  all  to  145,600. 

The  Promised  Land  once  reached,  the  connection  be- 
tween Issachar  and  Judah  seems  to  have  closed,  to  be 
renewed  only  on  two  brief  occasions,  which  will  be  no- 
ticed in  their  turn.  The  intimate  relation  with  Zebu- 
lun was,  however,  maintained.  The  two  brother-tribes 
had  their  portions  close  together,  and  more  than  once 
they  are  mentioned  in  company.  The  allotment  of  Is- 
sachar lay  above  that  of  Manasseh.  The  specification 
of  its  boundaries  and  contents  is  contained  in  Josh,  xix, 
17-23.  But  to  the  towns  there  named  must  be  added 
Daberath  (a  Levitical  city,  xxi,  28 : Jarmuth  here  is 
probably  the  Ilemeth  of  xix,  21)  and  Ibleam  (Josh,  xvii, 
1 1).  The  boundary,  in  the  words  of  Josephus  (.1  nt.  v,  1, 
22),  “ extended  in  length  from  Carmel  to  the  Jordan,  in 
breadth  to  Mount  Tabor.”  In  fact,  it  almost  exactly 
consisted  of  the  plain  of  Esdraelon  or  Jezreel.  The 
southern  boundary  we  can  trace  by  En-gannim,  the 
modern  Jenin,  on  the  heights  which  form  the  southern 
enclosure  to  the  plain : and  then  further  westward  by 
Taanaeh  and  Megiddo,  the  authentic  fragments  of  which 
still  stand  on  the  same  heights  as  they  trend  away  to 
the  hump  of  Carmel.  On  the  north  the  territory  nearly 
ceased  with  the  plain,  which  is  there  bounded  by  Tabor, 
the  outpost  of  the  hills  of  Zebulun.  East  of  Tabor,  the 
hill-country  continued  so  as  to  screen  the  tribe  from  the 
Sea  of  Galilee,  while  a detour  on  the  S.E.  included  a part 
of  the  plain  within  the  territory  of  Manasseh,  near  Beth- 
shean  and  the  upper  part  of  the  Jordan  valley.  In  a 
central  recess  of  the  plain  stood  Jezreel,  on  a low  swell, 
attended,  just  across  the  border,  on  the  one  hand  by  the 
eminence  of  Mount  Gilboa.  and  on  the  other  by  that 
now  called  Ed-Dnhy,  or  “Little  Hermon,”  the  latter 
having  Shunem,  Nain,  and  Eiulor  on  its  slopes — names 
which  recall  some  of  the  most  interesting  and  important 
events  in  the  history’  of  Israel.  See  Tribe. 

The  following  is  a list  of  all  the  Biblical  localities  in 
the  tribe,  with  their  approved  or  conjectural  identifica- 
tions : 


Abez, 

Town. 

Ukneifis  t 

Anah  aval  h, 

do. 

[Meskarah]  ? t 

Anem, 

do. 

See  En-gannim. 

Aphek, 

do. 

lEl-FulcIt ] t 

Belli-gan, 

do. 

See  En-gannim. 

Beth-pazzez. 

do. 

[ BeihJenv ] t ? 

Beth-shemesh, 

do. 

Kaukab-el-Uaica  ? 

Chesulloth,  or  Chisloth( 
Tabor,  j 

do. 

Iksal. 

Dabareh,  or  Daberath, 

do. 

Lebweh. 

En-ganniin, 

En-haddah, 

do. 

Jenin. 

do. 

[Ain  Maliit]  f 

Gur, 

Hapharaim, 

Ascent, 

[Mukeibileh]  t 

Town, 

[Eh  A fid  eh]  ? 

Ibleam 

do. 

[ Jelameh ] t 

Ittah-kaziu, 

do. 

[Ke/r  Kenna ] t 

Jarmuth, 

do. 

See  ItAMOTn. 

ISSACIIAR 


SOO 


ISSACHAR 


Neah? 


/zfddimfWS 

_Anaha  rathP\Aznoth  -^^>4 

fc>(?v^ShIhon?\  . J , V'- 

Jr^eshpf^  Wdaml 

o En-haddahV  “^A •'”"K\ 

«,T  TASOn  ^Bettv 
p '2*4^-  ^ahazimat 

^Dabereth  S , 

llloth  > V 

nMeno  ''"I 


^:U^/  Ittah-kuzinj' 
^b#^tW,ephepV^ 


Idalah? 


Dabbasheth? 


^ \ Jezreef  *j 

v fTam.oth?o  „<  ■ 

k\  v 

1 \ lbleam|  % j 


Beth-eked 

1,  « 


SC/ILF  OF  MILES. 


Baal-hamon 


Map  of  the  Tribe  of  Issachar. 


Jezreel, 

Jokmeam,  or  Jokneam, 
Kedesh, 

Kibzaim, 

Kishion, 

Maralah, 

Meroz, 

Naiu, 

Nazareth, 

Rabbith, 

Kamoth,  or  Remeth, 

Shahazimah, 

Shili  or, 

Shnnem, 


(Town. 

Zcrin. 

■1  Plain, 

Merj  Ibn-Amer. 

(Fountain, 

A in  Zerin. 

Town. 

El-Kairum. 

do. 

Kashaneht 

do. 

See  Jokneam. 

do. 

See  Kedesh. 

do. 

[ Mujeidil ] ? 

do. 

Kefr  Musr  ? 

do. 

Xein. 

do. 

En-Xasirah. 

do. 

t Smmrieli]  ? 
f[Tell  between  Sun- 

do. 

'S  del  a and  Mukei- 
\ bileh]? 

do. 

[Shant]  ? 

do. 

[ E.sh-Shijrah]  ? 

do. 

Solam. 

This  territory  was,  as  it  still  is,  among  the  richest 
land  in  Palestine.  AY  cstward  was  the  famous  plain 

which  derived  its  name,  the  “seed-plot  of  (loci” such 

is  the  signification  of  Jezreel— from  its  fertility,  and  the 
very  weeds  of  which  at  this  day  testify  to  its  enormous 
powers  of  production  (Stanley,  S',  and  P.  p.  348).  See 
Esdiiaelon ; Jezebel.  On  the  north  is  Tabor,  which, 
even  under  the  burning  sun  of  that  climate,  is  said  to 
retain  the  glades  and  dells  of  an  English  wood  (ibid.  p. 
350).  ( )n  the  east,  behind  Jezreel,  is  the  opening  which 
conducts  to  the  plain  of  the  Jordan— to  that  Beth-Shcan 
which  was  proverbially  among  the  Rabbis  the  gate  of 
Paradise  for  its  fruitfulness.  It  is  this  aspect  of  the 
territory  of  Issachar  which  appears  to  be  alluded  to  in 
the  blessing  of  Jacob.  The  image  of  the  “sturdy  he- 
888  ’ “T -H> — the  large  animal  used  for  burdens  and 

field-work,  not  the  lighter  and  swifter  she-ass  for  riding 
— “ couching  down  between  the  two  stalls,”  chewing  the 
fodder  of  stolid  ease  and  quiet — is  very  applicable,  not 
only  to  the  tendencies  and  habits,  but  to  the  very  size 
and  air  of  a rural  agrarian  people,  while  the  sequel  of 
the  verse  is  no  less  suggestive  of  the  certain  rcsidt  of 
such  tendencies  when  unrelieved  by  any  higher  aspira- 
tions: “ He  saw  that  rest  was  good  and  the  land  pleas- 
ant, and  he  bowed  his  back  to  bear,  and  became  a slave 
to  tribute”— the  tribute  imposed  on  him  by  the  various 
marauding  tribes  who  were  attracted  to  his  territory  by 
the  richness  of  the  crops.  The  blessing  of  Moses  com- 
pletes the  picture.  He  is  not  only  “ in  tents”— in  nom- 


ad or  semi-nomad  life — but  “rejoicing”  in  them;  and  it 
is  perhaps  not  straining  a point  to  observe  that  he  has 
by  this  time  begun  to  lose  his  individuality.  He  and 
Zebulim  are  mentioned  together  as  having  part  posses- 
sion in  the  holy  mountain  of  Tabor,  which  was  near  the 
frontier  line  of  each  (Deut.  xxxiii,  18,  19).  YY’e  pass 
from  this  to  the  time  of  Deborah : the  chief  struggle  in 
the  great  victory  over  Sisera  took  place  on  the  territory 
of  Issachar,  “ by  Taanacli  at  the  waters  of  Megiddo” 
(Judg.  v,  19);  but  the  allusion  to  the  tribe  in  the  song 
of  triumph  is  of  the  most  cursory  nature,  not  consistent 
with  its  having  taken  any  prominent  part  in  the  action. 

One  among  the  judges  of  Israel  was  from  Issachar-^. 
Tola  (Judg.  x,  1) — but  beyond  the  length  of  his  sway 
we  have  only  the  fact  recorded  that  he  resided  out  of 
the  limits  of  his  own  tribe — at  Shamir,  in  Mount  Ephra- 
im. By  Josephus  he  is  omitted  entirely  (see  Ant.  v,  7, 
(>).  The  census  of  the  tribe  taken  in  the  reign  of  David 
has  already  been  alluded  to.  It  is  contained  in  l Chron. 
vii,  1-5,  and  an  expression  occurs  in  it  which  testifies  to 
the  nomadic  tendencies  above  noticed.  Out  of  the 
whole  number  of  the  tribe  no  less  than  36,000  were  ma- 
rauding mercenary  troops — “bands”  (C"7*“15) — a term 
applied  to  no  other  tribe  in  this  enumeration,  though 
elsewhere  to  Gad,  and  uniformly  to  the  irregular  bodies 
of  the  Bedouin  nations  round  Israel.  This  was  proba- 
bly at  the  close  of  David’s  reign.  Thirty  years  before, 
when  two  hundred  of  the  head  men  of  the  tribe  had 
gone  to  Hebron  to  assist  in  making  David  king  over 
the  entire  realm,  different  qualifications  are  noted  in 
them — they  “had  understanding  of  the  times  to  know 
what  Israel  ought  to  do  . . . and  all  their  brethren 
were  at  their  commandment.”  To  what  this  “under- 
standing of  the  times”  was  we  have  no  clew  (see  Dey- 
ling,  Observ.  i,  160  sq.).  By  the  later  Jewish  interpret- 
ers it  is  explained  as  skill  in  ascertaining  the  periods 
of  the  sun  and  moon,  the  intercalation  of  months,  and 
dates  of  solemn  feasts,  and  the  interpretation  of  the 
signs  of  the  heavens  (Targnm,  ad  loc. ; Jerome,  Qucest. 
IIeb.\  Josephus  (Ant.  vii,  2,  2)  gives  it  as  “knowing 
the  things  that  were  to  happen and  he  adds  that  the 
armed  men  who  came  with  these  leaders  were  20,000. 
One  of  the  wise  men  of  Issachar,  according  to  an  old 


ISSENDORP 


701 


ISSUE 


Jewish  tradition  preserved  by  Jerome  ( Queest . Heb.  on 
2 Cbron.  xvii,  16),  was  Amasiah,  son  of  Zichri,  who, 
with  200,000  men,  offered  himself  to  Jehovah  in  the 
service  of  Jehoshaphat  (2  Chron.  xvii,  16) ; but  this  is 
very  questionable,  as  the  movement  appears  to  have 
been  confined  to  Judah  and  Benjamin.  The  ruler  of 
the  tribe  at  this  time  was  Omri,  of  the  great  family  of 
Michael  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  18;  compare  vii,  B).  May  he 
not  have  been  the  forefather  of  the  king  of  Israel  of  the 
same  name — the  founder  of  the  “house  of  Omri”  and  of 
the  “ house  of  Aliab,”  the  builder  of  Samaria,  possibly 
on  the  same  hill  of  Shamir  on  which  the  Issacharite 
judge,  Tola,  had  formerly  held  his  court  ? But,  whether 
this  was  so  or  not,  at  any  rate  one  dynasty  of  the  Is- 
raelitish  kings  was  Issacharite.  Baasha,  the  son  of  Alii- 
jah,  of  the  house  of  Issachar,  a member  of  the  army 
with  which  Nadab  and  all  Israel  were  besieging  Gibbe- 
thon,  apparently  not  of  any  standing  in  the  tribe  (com- 
pare 1 Kings  xvi,  2),  slew  the  king,  and  himself  moimt- 
ed  the  throne  (1  Kings  xv,  27,  etc.).  lie  was  evidently 
a fierce  and  warlike  man  (xvi,  29;  1 Chron.  xvi,  1),  and 
an  idolater  like  Jeroboam.  The  Issacharite  dynasty 
lasted  during  the  twenty-four  years  of  his  reign  and  the 
two  of  his  son  Elah.  At  the  end  of  that  time  it  was 
wrested  from  him  by  the  same  means  that  his  father 
had  acquired  it,  and  Zimri,  the  new  king,  commenced 
his  reign  by  a massacre  of  the  whole  kindred  and  con- 
nections of  Baasha — he  left  him  “ not  even  so  much  as 
a boy”  (xvi,  11). 

Distant  as  Jezreel  was  from  Jerusalem,  the  inhabi- 
tants took  part  in  the  Passover  with  which  Ilezekiali 
sanctified  the  opening  of  his  reign.  On  that  memora- 
ble occasion  a multitude  of  the  people  from  the  north- 
ern tribes,  and  among  them  from  Issachar,  although  so 
long  estranged  from  the  worship  of  Jehovah  as  to  have 
forgotten  how  to  make  the  necessary  purifications,  yet 
by  the  enlightened  piety  of  Ilezekiali  were  allowed  to 
keep  the  feast;  and  they  did  keep  it  seven  days  with 
great  gladness — with  such  tumultuous  joy  as  had  not 
been  known  since  the  time  of  Solomon,  when  the  whole 
land  was  one.  Nor  did  they  separate  till  the  occasion 
had  been  signalized  by  an  immense  destruction  of  idol- 
atrous altars  and  symbols,  “in  Judah  and  Benjamin,  in 
Ephraim  and  Manasseh,”  up  to  the  very  confines  of  Is- 
sachar’s  own  land — and  then  “all  the  children  of  Israel 
returned  every  man  to  his  possession  into  their  own  cit- 
ies” (2  Chron.  xxxi,  1).  Within  five  years  from  this 
date  Shalmaneser,  king  of  Assyria,  had  invaded  the 
north  of  Palestine,  and  after  three  years’  siege  had  taken 
Samaria,  and,  with  the  rest  of  Israel,  had  carried  Issa- 
eliar  away  to  his  distant  dominions.  The  only  other 
scriptural  allusion  to  the  tribe  is  that,  with  the  rest  of 
their  brethren  of  all  the  tribes  of  the  children  of  Israel 
(Dan  only  excepted),  the  twelve  thousand  of  the  tribe 
of  Issachar  shall  be  sealed  in  their  foreheads  (Rev.  vii, 
7). — Smith. 

2.  A Korliite  Levite,  one  of  the  door-keepers  (A.  V. 
“porters”)  of  the  house  of  Jehovah,  seventh  son  of 
Obed-Edom  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  5).  B.C.  1014. 

Issendorp,  Hendrik,  belonged  to  the  Evangelical 
Lutherans  of  Holland.  He  was  called  in  1723  to  the 
charge  of  a Lutheran  church  at  Purmerend.  In  1737 
bodily  infirmities  rendered  a colleague  necessary'.  In 
1743  he  resigned  his  charge.  Though  obliged  to  desist 
from  his  ministerial  work,  he  rendered  himself  eminent- 
ly useful  to  his  denomination  by  presenting  to  the  Dutch 
a translation  of  some  three  or  four  hundred  German 
hymns.  See  Glasius,  Godgeleerel  Nederland,  ii,  196  sq.; 
also  Gesehiedenis  van  het  godselienstig  Gezang  bij  de  Lu- 
thersehen  in  de  Nederlunden  door.  ( J.  P.  W.) 

Isserlein,  Israel  ben-Pet achya,  a Jewish  Rabbi 
of  great  distinction  among  Jewish  scholars  in  the  15tli 
century,  and  one  of  the  representatives  of  truly  learn- 
ed German  synagogal  teachers,  flourished  about  1427- 
1470.  At  first  he  was  settled  over  a congregation  at 
Marburg;  later  he  removed  to  Neustadt,  near  Vienna. 


Isserlein  was  a very  liberal-minded  Jew,  and  did  much 
by  his  influence  to  advance  the  standing  of  Jewish 
scholarship  in  his  day.  More  particularly  was  his  in- 
fluence felt  in  the  theological  schools  of  his  Hebrew 
brethren  all  over  Germany.  From  the  most  distant 
parts  of  Europe  students  flocked  to  the  schools  at  Er- 
furt, Nuremburg,  Regensburg,  and  Prague,  where  the 
Talmud  was  expounded  in  a most  masterly  manner 
(comp.  Zunz,  Znr  Gescft.  it.  Lit.  p.  167  sq.).  According 
to  Jost  (Gesch.  d.  Judenthums  it.  s.Sekten,  iii,  116),  Isser- 
lcin  died  obscurely  in  1452,  but  this  seems  improbable, 
as  Ftirst  has  evidence  of  Isserlein’s  activity  in  1457. 
His  works  are  Hr,  a collection  of  354 

opinions  on  the  different  fields  of  Iiabbinism  (Venice, 
1519, 4to;  Fiirth,  1778,  4to)  on  the 

Halachoth  (Venice,  1519,  4to,  and  often;  FUrth,  1778, 
4to)  : — rrrntt  b"  “ir  H or  Expositions  on 

Kashi’s  Commentary  to  the  Pentateuch  (Venice,  1519, 
4to,  and  often)  "“P/r  C3  or  Com- 

mentary' on  the  Book  Sha’are  Dura  of  Isaac  Duran  (Ven- 
ice, 1548, 4to,  and  often) ; etc.  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Ju- 
den,  viii,  220  sq.;  F first,  Biblioth.  Jnd.  ii,  154;  Frankel, 
Israel  Isserlein  (Lib.  d.  Or.  1847),  e.  67 5-678.  ( J.  II.  W.) 

Isserles,  Mosf.  ben-Israel,  a celebrated  Polish 
Rabbi,  was  bom  at  Cracow  in  1520.  The  son  of  a very 
wealthy  man,  and  a relative  of  the  distinguished  savan 
Mei'r  Katzenellenbogen  of  Padua,  he  was  afforded  pe- 
culiar advantages  for  thorough  culture.  Of  these  he 
readily  availed  himself,  and,  in  consequence,  filled  very 
prominent  positions  at  quite  an  early  age.  He  was  dis- 
tinguished, however,  rather  for  his  early  acquisitions  and 
extended  knowledge  than  any  great  natural  abilities, 
lie  died  in  1573.  The  writings  of  Isserles  are  very  va- 
ried, covering  the  departments  of  theological,  exegeti- 
cal,  ecclesiastical,  and  even  historical  and  philosophical 
literature.  In  all  of  these  he  was  perfectly  at  home. 
His  most  important  works  are  PlHpn  rv'n  D,  on  Sac- 
rifices and  other  subjects  of  Jewish  Antiquities  (Prague, 
1569): — P"n^,  or  Commentary  on  the  Book  of  Es- 
ther (Cremona,  1559,  4to;  Amsterd.  1769,  8vo).  For  a 
list  of  all  his  works,  see  Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  ii,  155  sq. 
See  Frankel,  JIos.  b.- Israel yenaimt  Mose  Isserles , in  the 
Oriented.  Literaturblutt  (1847),  c.  827-SO;  Griitz,  Gesch. 
d.  Juden , ix,  472  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Isshi'ah  (a,  1 Chron.  xxiv,  21 ; b,  1 Chron.  xxiv, 
25).  See  Ishi ah. 

Issue,  besides  its  ordinary  sense  of  yoing  forth  (133 ? 
Cliald.  to  flow,  Dan.  vii.  10;  also  exit,  i.  e. 

source,  Prov.  iv,  23,  frequently  of  the  direction  or  termi- 
nus of  a boundary;  ttcTrapevofiai,  to  go  out,  Rev.  ix,  17, 
18),  and  proegeny  (rriH.T,  Gen.  xlviii,  6,  elsewhere  “ kin- 
dred f shoots,  i.e.  offspring,  Isa.  xxii,24;  owip- 

/i a,  seed,  Matt,  xxii,  25),  is  the  rendering  employed  by 
our  translators  for  several  terms  expressive  of  a purulent 
or  unhealthy  discharge,  especially  from  the  sexual  or- 
gans. The  most  emphatic  of  these  is  2'T,  from  S^.T,  to 
flow , both  the  verb  and  noun  being  frequently  applied 
to  diseased  or  unusual  secretions,  e.  g.  the  monthly 
courses  or  catamenia  of  women,  and  the  seminal  flux  or 
gonorrheea  benigna  of  men  (Lev.  xv  ; Numb,  v,  2).  See 
Disease.  A more  intense  and  chronic  form  of  this  dis- 
charge was  the  “ issue  of  blood,”  or  uterine  liamiorrhage 
of  the  woman  in  the  Gospels  (pvervQ  a'igaroc,  Mark  v, 
25 ; Luke  viii,  43,  44 ; a'tgoppUo,  Matt,  ix,  20),  which,  as 
it  made  her  ceremonially’  unclean,  she  was  so  anxious 
to  conceal  when  she  came  in  contact  with  the  multitude 
and  with  Christ.  (See  monographs  in  Volbeding,  Index, 
p.  49;  Hase,  Leben  Jesu,  p.  141.)  The  term  Ezek. 

xxiii,  20,  signifies  a pouring,  and  is  applied  to  the  emis- 
sio  seminis  of  a stallion,  to  which  the  idolatrous  para- 
mours of  Judaea  are  compared  in  the  strong  language  of 
the  prophet.  See  Adultery.  The  only  other  term  so 
i rendered  is  Hp“,  a fountain,  applied  to  the  womb,  or 


ISSUS  702  ITALIAN  VERSIONS 


pudenda  mutiebra,  as  the  source  of  the  menstrual  dis- 
charge (Lev.  xii,  7;  xx,  18;  comp,  miyi),  Mark  v,  29). 
See  Ft  ax. 

“ The  texts  Lev.  xv,  2, 3 ; xxii,  4 ; Numb,  v,  2 (and  2 
Sam.  iii,  29,  where  the  malady  is  invoked  as  a curse), 
are  probably  to  be  interpreted  of  gonorrhoea.  In  Lev. 
xv,  3 a distinction  is  introduced,  which  merely  means 
that  the  cessation  of  the  actual  flux  does  not  constitute 
ceremonial  cleanness,  but  that  the  patient  must  bide  the 
legal  time,  seven  days  (ver.  13),  and  perform  the  pre- 
scribed purifications  and  sacrifice  (ver.  14).  See,  how- 
ever, Surenhusius’s  preface  to  the  treatise  Zabim  of  the 
Mishna,  where  another  interpretation  is  given.  As  re- 
gards the  specific  varieties  of  this  malady,  it  is  general- 
ly asserted  that  its  most  severe  form  (yon.  virulenta ) is 
modem,  having  first  appeared  in  the  loth  century. 
Chardin  (Voyages  en  Perse , ii,  200)  states  that  he  ob- 
served that  this  disorder  was  prevalent  in  Persia,  but 
that  its  effects  were  far  less  severe  than  in  Western  cli-  j 
mates.  If  this  be  true,  it  would  go  some  way  to  ex-  | 
plain  the  alleged  absence  of  the  gon.  rirul.  from  ancient  j 
nosology,  which  found  its  field  of  observation  in  the 
Hast,  Greece,  etc.,  and  to  confirm  the  supposition  that 
the  milder  form  only  was  the  subject  of  Mosaic  legisla- 
tion.  Put,  beyond  this,  it  is  probable  that  diseases  may 
appear,  run  their  course,  and  disappear,  and,  lor  want  of 
an  accurate  observation  of  their  symptoms,  leave  no 
trace  behind  them.  The  ‘ bed,’  ‘ seat,’  etc.  (Lev.  xv,  5,  G, 
etc.),  are  not  to  be  supposed  to  have  been  regarded  by 
that  law  as  contagious,  but  the  defilement  extended  to 
them  merely  to  give  greater  prominence  to  the  ceremo- 
nial strictness  with  which  the  case  was  ruled.  In  the 
woman’s  ‘ issue,’  (v.  19),  the  ordinary  menstruation  seems 
alone  intended,  supposed  to  be  prolonged  (v.25)  to  a mor- 
bid extent.  The  scriptural  handling  of  the  subject  not 
dealing,  as  in  the  case  of  leprosy,  in  symptoms.it  seems 
gratuitous  to  detail  them  here:  those  who  desire  such 
knowledge  will  find  them  in  any  compendium  of  thera- 
peutics. See  Josephus,  War,  v,  5,  G ; vi,  9, 3;  Mishna, 
Chelim.  i,  3,  8;  Maimon.  ad  Zabim,  ii,  2:  whence  we 
learn  that  persons  thus  affected  might  not  ascend  the 
Temple  mount,  nor  share  in  any  religious  celebration, 
nor  even  enter  Jerusalem.  See  also  Michaelis,  Laws  of 
Moses,  iv,  282”  (Smith).  Sec  Uncleanness. 

Issus,  or,  rather,  Isus  ("Ir roc),  mentioned  by  Jose- 
phus (Ant.  x,  8,  G)  as  high-priest  between  Joram  and 
Axioramus;  apparently  corresponding  to  the  Jehosha- 
phat  of  the  Seder  Olam.  See  Higii-priest. 

Istalcu'ilis.  “ In  1 Esdr.  viii,40.  the  ‘son  of  Is- 
talcurus’  (<»  to v ’laraXicovpov)  is  substituted  for  ‘ and 
Zamh.tij’  of  the  corresponding  list  in  Ezra  (viii,  14). 
The  Keri  has  Zikkur  instead  of  Zabbiul,  and  of  this 
there  is  perhaps  some  trace  in  Istalcunis”  (Smith). 

Is'uah  (l  Chron.  vii,  30).  See  Isiicaii. 

Is'ui  (Gen.  xlvi,  17).  See  Isiiui,  1. 

Itala,  a name  attributed  to  the  old  Latin  version 
which  was  the  foundation  of  Jerome’s  Vulgate.  See 
Italic  Version. 

Ital'ian  (’IrnXncdc)  occurs  but  once  in  Scripture,  in 
the  mention  of  the  “ Italian  band,”  i.  e.  Iloman  cohort, 
to  which  Cornelius  belonged  (Acts  x,  1).  “This  seems 
to  have  been  a cohort  of  Italians  separate  from  the  le- 
gionary soldiers,  and  not  a cohort  of  the  ‘ Legio  ltalica,'1 
of  which  we  read  at  a later  period  (Tacitus,  I fist,  i,  59, 
G4;  ii,  1(10;  iii,  14)  as  being  raised  by  Nero  (Dio  Cass. 
Iv,  24;  Sueton.  Aero,  19).  (See  Biscoc,  On  the  Acts,  p. 
300  scj.)  Wieseler  (Chronol.  p.  145)  thinks  they  were 
Italian  volunteers;  and  there  is  an  inscription  in  Gruter 
in  which  the  following  words  occur:  ‘Cohors  militum 
Italieorum  voluntaria,  qme  est  in  Syria’  (see  Ackerman, 
Numismatic  Illustrations,  p.  34)"  (Conybearc  and  How- 
son,  St.  Paul,  i,  113).  There  is  a monograph  on  the  sub- 
ject : Schwarz,  l)e  cohorte  ltalica  et  A ugusta  (Altdorf, 
1720).  See  Cohort. 

Italian  School  ok  Philosophy.  By  the  Italian 


school  is  properly  understood  the  blending  of  the  Py- 
thagorean and  Eleatic  systems  of  philosophy  into  one. 
It  is  sometimes,  however,  used  of  the  Pythagorean  sys- 
tem merely.  The  reason  for  designating  it  as  the  Ital- 
ian school  is  because  Pythagoras  is  said  to  have  taught 
in  Italy.  See  Pythagoras. 

Italian  Versions  of  the  Scriptures.  The  ear- 
liest translation  of  the  Bible  into  the  modem  Italian  is 
said  to  have  been  made  by  Giacomo  da  Viraggio  (Jaco- 
bus de  Voragine),  archbishop  of  Genoa,  in  the  beginning 
of  the  13th  century.  This  rests  exclusively  on  the  au- 
thority of  Sixtus  Senensis  (Biblioth.  Sand.  lib.  iv),  and 
there  is  weighty  reason  for  doubting  the  statement. 
That  at  an  early  period,  however,  versions  of  parts,  if 
not  of  the  whole  of  Scripture  into  Italian  were  made,  is 
evinced  by  the  fact  that  there  exist  in  various  libraries 
MSS.  containing  them.  In  the  Royal  Library  at  Paris 
is  an  Italian  Bible  in  two  vols.  folio,  as  well  as  several 
eodices  containing  parts  of  the  Bible  in  that  language; 
in  the  library  at  Upsala  is  a Codex  containing  a history 
compiled  from  the  first  seven  books  of  the  O.  T.  in  Ital- 
ian ; in  the  library  of  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  is  an  Ital- 
ian translation  of  the  N.T.,  with  portions  of  the  Old,  and 
in  other  libraries  like  relics  are  preserved  (see  Le  Long, 
Bib.  Sac.  cap.  vi,  § I). 

The  earliest  printed  Italian  Bible  is  that  of  Nicolo  di 
Malermi  (or  Malherbi),  a Venetian  Benedictine  monk  of 
the  order  of  Camaldoli : it  appeared  under  the  title  of 
Biblia  Volgare  Uistoriota,  etc.  (Veil.  1471.)  The  trans- 
lation is  from  the  Vulgate,  and  is  pronouneed  by  R.  Si- 
mon to  be  executed  in  a harsh  style  and  carelessly  (Hist. 
Crit.  du  X.  T.  p.  4N7).  It  was,  however,  repeatedly  re- 
printed; the  best  editions  are  that  superintended  by 
Marini  (Ven.  1477, 2 vols.  fol.),  and  that  issued  at  Venice 
in  15G7  (1  vol.  fob).  In  1530  Antonio  Bruecioli  issued 
his  translation  of  the  N.T.,  and  in  1532  the  first  edition 
of  his  translation  of  the  entire  Bible,  containing  a re- 
vised and  corrected  translation  of  the  N.  T.,  under  the 
title  of  La  Biblia  eke  contiene  Sacri  libri  del  recchio  Test- 
amento  tradotto  nuovamente  de  la  Uebraica  verita  in  lin- 
gua Toscana,  con  divini  libi'i  del  X.  T.  tradotti  da  Greco 
in  lingua  Tosc.  con  prieilegio  de  lo  inclito  Senato  Veneto, 
e letera  a Francesco  I,  liege  Christianissimo  (fob  Ven  icq 
ap.  Luc.  Ant.  Junta?).  This  translation  is  said  by  Simon 
to  follow'  in  the  ().  T.  the  Latin  version  of  Pagnini  rath- 
er than  to  be  made  from  the  original  Hebrew,  aud  to 
partake  of  the  rudeness  and  barbarism  of  Pagn ini’s  style. 
It  was  put  in  the  index  of  the  prohibited  books  among 
works  of  the  first  class.  Many  editions  of  it,  however, 
appeared,  of  which  the  most  important  is  that  ofZanetti 
(Ven.  1540, 3 vols.  fol).  Bruceioli’s  version  of  the  O.  T. 
in  a corrected  form  was  printed  at  Geneva  in  1562,  along 
with  a new  version  of  the  N.  T.  by  Gallars  and  Beza ; to 
this  notes  are  added,  and  especially  an  exposition  of  the 
Apocalypse.  The  translation  of  Marmoeliini,  though 
professedly  original,  is,  in  reality,  only  a revised  edition 
of  that  of  Bruecioli,  the  design  of  which  vras  to  bring  it 
more  fully  into  accordance  with  the  Vulgate.  Several 
translations  of  the  Psalms  (some  from  the  Hebrew)  and 
of  other  parts  of  Scripture  appeared  in  Italy  between 
the  middle  and  end  of  the  lGtli  century,  and  a new  trans- 
lation of  the  N.  T.,  by  a Florentine  of  the  name  of  Zaelia- 
ria,  appeared  in  8vo  at  Venice  in  1542,  and  at  Florence 
in  15G6,  copies  of  which  are  now  extremely  rare.  The 
Jew  David  de  Pomis  issued  a translation  of  Ecclesiastes 
with  the  original  Hebrew  (Ven.  1578). 

In  1607  appeared  at  Geneva  the  first  Protestant  Ital- 
ian version — that  of  Giovanni  Diodati  (La  Biblia : Cio'e 
I Libri  del  Vecchio  e del  Xuovo  Testamento  [sm.  folio]). 
To  this  are  appended  brief  marginal  notes.  This  ver- 
sion was  made  directly  from  the  original  texts,  and 
stands  in  high  esteem  for  fidelity.  It  has  been  repeat- 
edly reprinted.  Being  in  the  piain  Lucchcse  dialect,  it 
is  especially  adapted  for  circulation  among  the  common 
people.  It  is  that  now  adopted  by  the  Bible  Societies. 

Aversion  affeeting  greater  elegance,  but  by  no  means 
so  faithful,  is  that  of  Antonio  Martini,  archbishop  of 


ITALIC  VERSION 


ITALY 


vos 


Florence.  The  N.  T.  appeared  at  Turin  in  1709,  and 
the  O.  T.  in  1779,  both  accompanied  with  the  text  of 
the  Vulgate,  and  with  copious  notes,  chiefly  from  the 
fathers.  This  work  received  the  approbation  of  pope 
Pius  VI.  It  is  made  avowedly  from  the  Vulgate,  and 
is  in  the  pure  Tuscan  dialect,  Repeated  editions  have 
appeared;  one,  printed  at  Livorno  (Leghorn),  and  those 
issued  by  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  (Loud. 
1813, 1821),  want  the  notes,  and  have  consequently  been 
placed  in  the  index  of  prohibited  books.  To  read  and 
circulate  this  book,  though  bearing  the  papal  sanction, 
was,  till  lately,  a grave  offense,  as  the  well-known  case 
of  the  Madiai  in  Florence  proves. — lvitto,  s.  v.  Sec 
Versions. 

Italic  Version  ( I "etus  T tala'),  the  usual  name,  of 
the  old  Latin  version  of  the  Scriptures,  used  prior  to  the 
days  of  Augustine  and  Jerome,  and  probably  made  in 
Northern  Africa  in  the  2d  century.  The  Italic,  howev- 
er, is  properly  a<  revision  of  this  old  Latin  version,  which 
was  in  use  in  Northern  Italy,  or  around  Milan.  Frag- 
ments of  it  have  been  preserved  by  Blanchini  and  Saba- 
tier (Eadie,  Eccles.  Diet.  s.  v.).  Portions  containing  the 
hooks  of  Leviticus  and  Numbers  have  been  published 
by  Lord  Ashburnham  (London,  1870)  from  an  ancient 
Codex  in  his  library.  See  Latin  Versions. 

It'aly  (’IraXi'rt,  of  uncertain  etymology),  the  name 
of  the  country  of  which  Home  was  the  capital  (Acts 
xviii,  2;  xxvii,  1,6;  11  eb.  xiii,  24).  This,  like  most 
geographical  names,  was  differently  applied  at  different 
periods.  In  the  earliest  times  the  name  “Italy"  in- 
cluded only  the  little  peninsula  of  Calabria  (Strabo,  v,  1). 
The  country  now  called  Italy  was  then  inhabited  by  a 
number  of  nations  distinct  in  origin,  language,  and  gov- 
ernment, such  as  the  Gauls,  Ligurians,  and  Veneti  on 
the  north,  and  the  Pelasgi,  Sabines,  Etrurians,  etc.,  on 
the  south.  But,  as  the  power  of  Pome  advanced,  these 
nations  were  successively  annexed  to  the  great  state, 
and  the  name  “Italy"  extended  also,  till  it  eame  to  be 
applied  to  the  whole  country  south  of  the  Alps,  and 
Polybius  seems  to  use  it  in  this  sense  (i,  6;  ii,  14).—  i 
Kitto.  For  the  progress  of  the  history  of  the  word,  see 
Smith's  Dictionary  o f Classical  Gooyraphy,  s.  v.  From 
the  time  of  the  close  of  the  republic  it  was  employed 
as  we  employ  it  now,  i.  e.  in  its  true  geographical 
sense,  as  denoting  the  whole  natural  peninsula  be- 
tween the  Alps  and  the  Straits  of  Messina.  In  the 
New  Testament  it  occurs  three,  or,  indeed,  more  cor- 
rectly speaking,  four  times.  In  Acts  x,  1,  the  Italian 
cohort  at  Caesarea  (»/  inzilpa  t)  ica\ovfitv>]  ’I raXiKi], 
A.V.  “Italian  band”),  consisting,  as  it  doubtless  did,  of 
men  recruited  in  Italy,  illustrates  the  military  relations 
of  the  imperial  peninsula  with  the  provinces.  See 
Army.  In  Acts  xviii,  2,  where  we  are  told  of  the  ex- 
pulsion of  Aquila  and  Priscilla  with  their  compatriots 
“ from  Italy,”  we  are  reminded  of  the  large  Jewish  pop- 
ulation which  many  authorities  show  that  it  contained. 
Acts  xxvii,  1,  where  the  beginning  of  St.  Paul’s  voyage 
“to  Italy  ’ is  mentioned, and  the  whole  subsequent  nar- 
rative, illustrate  the  trade  which  subsisted  between  the 
peninsula  and  other  parts  of  the  Mediterranean.  Lastly, 
the  words  in  Ileb.  xiii,  24, “They  of  Italy  (oi  otto  Tijt • 
’iraXiaij)  salute  you,”  whatever  they  may  prove  for  or 
against  this  being  the  region  in  which  the  letter  was 
written  (and  the  matter  has  been  strongly  argued  both 
ways),  are  interesting  as  a specimen  of  the  progress  of 
Christianity  in  the  West. — Smith.  A concise  account 
of  the  divisions  and  history  of  ancient  Italy  may  be 
found  in  Anthon’s  Class.  Diet.  s.v.  Italia.  See  Rome. 

Italy,  Modern,  a kingdom  in  Southern  Europe,  with 
an  area  of  1 1 2,852  square  miles,  and  a population  in  1870 
of  2(5,500,000  inhabitants.  The  name  originally  belonged 
to  the  southern  point  of  the  Apeiminc  peninsula  alone; 
at  the  time  of  Thucydides  it  embraced  the  whole  south- 
ern coast  from  the  river  Laos,  on  the  Tyrrhenian  Sea, 
to  Metapontium,  on  the  Sicilian  Straits;  after  the  eon- 
O'  est  of  Tarcutum  by  the  Romans  it  was  extended  to 


all  the  country  from  the  Sicilian  Straits  to  the  Arno  or 
Rubicon;  finally,  at  the  time  of  Augustus,  it  came  to  be 
used  of  the  whole  of  the  peninsula.  In  a still  wider 
sense  it  was,  under  Constantine,  the  name  of  one  of  the 
four  ehief  divisions  of  the  Roman  Empire,  being  subdi- 
vided into  three  (according  to  others  into  four  or  two) 
dioceses  — Illyria,  Africa,  and  Italy  Proper.  But  this 
wider  significance  died  out  with  the  dissolution  of  the 
Roman  Empire,  and  the  name  has  since  been  confined 
to  the  Apennine  peninsula.  It  denoted  a country,  the 
people  of  which  gradually  coalesced  into  one  nation, 
united  by  the  same  language,  literature,  and  habits,  but 
which  never,  for  any  length  of  time,  constituted  one  po* 
litical  commonwealth.  Not  until  1859  did  the  national 
aspirations  for  unity  succeed  in  erecting  by  far  the  larger 
portion  of  the  peninsula  into  the  kingdom  of  Italy;  in 
I860  Venetia  was  added,  and  in  1870  the  incorporation 
of  Rome  completed  the  structure  of  national  unity. 

I.  Church  History. — (1.)  The  planting  of  Christianity 
in  Italy  can  be  traced  to  the  first  years  of  the  Christian 
a?ra.  The  apostle  Peter,  according  to  old  accounts,  vis- 
ited Rome  as  early  as  A.D.  42,  but  no  satisfactory  evi- 
dence can  be  adduced  for  the  assertion  of  Roman  theo- 
logians that  Peter  was  at  any  time  bishop  of  the  Church 
of  Rome,  and  still  less  that  lie  held  this  office  for  twen- 
ty-five years.  In  53  the  Christians,  together  with  the 
Jews,  were  expelled  from  Rome  by  order  of  tlie  emperor 
Claudius.  The  Epistle  of  Paul  to  the  Romans  (about 
55)  indicates  that  the  Church  in  Rome  was  at  that  time 
fully  organized.  Under  Nero,  Peter  and  Paul  were  prob- 
ably put  to  death,  together  with  numerous  other  pro- 
lessors  of  Christianity.  Among  those  who  were  put  to 
death  under  Domitian  (81-96)  was  Flavius  Clemens,  a 
man  of  consular  dignity,  and  belonging  to  tlie  imperial 
family.  Many  other  churches  in  Italy,  besides  that  of 
Rome,  trace  their  foundation  to  assistants  of  the  apos- 
tles; thus  Iiaruabas  is  said  to  have  established  the 
Church  of  Milan,  Mark  the  Church  of  Aquileja,  Apolli- 
naris  the  Church  at  Ravenna.  The  churches  of  Lucca, 

| I'iesole,  Bologna,  Bari,  Benevento,  Capua,  Naples,  Paler- 
| mo,  Syracuse,  Pavia,  U rhino,  Mantua,  Verona,  Pisa.  Flor- 
I euce,  and  Sienna  also  claim  to  be  of  apostolic  origin. 
That  many  of  the  churches  were  really  organized  dur- 
ing the  lirst  century  is  not  doubted,  but  hardly  any  of 
them  has  a documentary  history  which  ascends  beyond 
the  beginning  of  the  2d  century.  Even  the  history  of 
the  Church  oi'Rome  is  so  involved  in  obscurity  that  ifc 
is  not  known  in  which  order  the  first  four  bishops  sue* 
ceeded  each  other.  From  the  beginning  of  the  2d  cen- 
tury bishoprics  rapidly  increased,  and  down  to  the  year 
311  there  arc  enumerated  many  seats  of  bishops  in  all 
the  provinces.  The  first  epistle  of  the  Roman  bishop 
Soter  (A.D.  175  sq.)  was  written  to  the  bishops  of  Cam- 
pania, and  his  second  to  the  bishops  of  Italy.  The  Ro- 
man bishop  Zephyrinus  (203-221)  addressed  his  first 
epistle  to  all  the  bishops  of  Sicily,  and  Eusebius  his 
third  to  the  bishops  of  Tuseia  and  Campania.  A “ Pro- 
vincial Synod  of  Rome,”  consisting  of  twelve  bishops, 
was  presided  over  by  Teles  ph  or  us  (142-154) ; it  was  fol- 
lowed by  a synod  under  Anicetus  (IG7-175);  another 
in  197,  and  many  more  in  the  3d  century.  At  the  be- 
ginning of  the  4th  eentury  Christianity  was  so  firmly 
established  throughout  Italy  that  the  pagans  could  make 
no  notable  resistance  when  Christianity  under  Constan- 
tine the  Great  became  the  religion  of  the  state.  The 
apostasy  of  Julian  retarded  but  little  the  victory  of 
Christianity,  which  beeame  complete  when, towards  the 
close  of  the  4th  century,  Theodosius  exterminated  pa- 
ganism by  fire  and  sword.  As  the  bishop  of  Rome  was 
from  the  earliest  period  of  the  Church  one  of  the  three 
great  bishops  of  the  Christian  Church  (Rome,  Alexan- 
dria. and  Antioch),  the  churches  of  Italy  became  subor- 
dinate to  bis  superintendence  and  jurisdiction ; only  the 
Church  provinces  of  the  metropolitans  of  Milan  and 
Aqnileia  remained  independent  of  the  jurisdiction  of 
Rome  for  many  more  centuries.  The  more  the  power 
of  the  bishops  of  Rome  rose,  the  more  the  Church  his- 


ITALY 


Map  of  Ancient  Italy. 


ITALY 


705 


ITALY 


ton”  of  Italy  is  absorbed  by  the  history  of  the  papacy 
and  the  Roman  Church.  In  no  other  country  of  Eu- 
rope was  the  unity  of  faith  better  preserved  and  less  in- 
terrupted than  in  Italy.  The  ride  of  the  Arian  Goths 
(493-503)  lasted  too  short  a time  to  establish  Ariauism 
on  a tirm  foundation,  and  all  the  following  changes  in 
the  secular  government  of  the  country  recognised  the 
predominant  Church.  The  unity  of  the  Italian  Church 
during  the  Middle  Ages  was  but  little  disturbed  by  he- 
retical sects;  the  Catharists  and  Pasagii  never  became 
powerful,  and  soon  disappeared ; only  the  Waldenses,  in 
the  remote  valleys  of  Piedmont,  survived  all  persecu- 
tion. See  Papacy. 

(2.)  History  of  the  Reformation . — Italy,  like  other 
countries,  had  its  forerunners  of  the  Reformation,  the 
most  prominent  of  whom  was  the  Dominican  monk  Sa- 
vonarola (q.  v.),  who  fearlessly  advomited  a radical  re- 
form of  the  Church.  The  revival  of  the  classical  stud- 
ies on  the  one  hand,  and  the  corruption  which  prevailed 
at  the  papal  court  on  the  other,  disposed  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  lOtli  century  many  minds  towards  abandon- 
ing the  doctrines  of  Rome.  In  general,  however,  the 
tendency  towards  freethinking  was  stronger  among  the 
malcontents  than  the  wish  for  a religious  reform.  One 
of  the  most  important  efforts  in  the  latter  direction  was 
made  in  the  time  of  Leo  X by  some  twenty  earnest  men, 
who  formed  a society  for  the  purpose  of  rekindling  in 
the  Church  a spirit  of  piety  in  opposition  to  the  pre- 
vailing corruption.  Among  them  were  Cajetan,  subse- 
quently founder  of  the  order  of  the  Theatines;  Caraffa, 
subsequently  pope  Paul  IV;  and  Contarini,  subsequent- 
ly cardinal.  All  of  them  desired  to  effect  a reformation 
within  the  Church,  though  some  of  them  strongly  in- 
clined towards  the  reformatory  doctrine  of  justification 
by  faith  alone.  To  this  class  of  reformers  belonged  also 
Bruccioli,  who  published  an  Italian  translation  of  the 
Bible  (1530-1532),  which  passed  through  several  edi- 
tions. Among  the  sympathizers  with  this  movement 
were  also  I'oscarari,  bishop  of  Modena ; San  Felice,  bish- 
op of  Cava;  cardinal  Morone,  Grimani,  patriarch  of 
Aquileia,  and  Folengo,  a pious  Benedictine  of  Monte 
Casino.  In  consequence  of  the  frequent  intercourse  of 
Upper  Italy  with  Germany  and  Switzerland,  the  writ- 
ings of  Luther  and  other  reformers  began  to  circulate  in 
Italy  from  the  beginning  of  the  Reformation.  To  evade 
the  Inquisition,  they  were  generally  published  either 
anonymously,  or  under  the  name  of  other  authors. 

Venice  appears  to  have  been  the  first  city  of  I taly  in 
which  the  Reformation  took  root.  This  was  chiefly  due 
to  its  constant  intercourse  with  Germany,  and  to  the  in- 
dependent. position  maintained  by  that  republic  towards 
the  sec  of  Rome.  As  early  as  1520  Luther  received 
news  from  Venice  that  a great  need  was  felt  there  of 
evangelical  preachers  and  books,  and  in  1528  lie  was  in- 
formed that  the  cause  was  making  good  progress.  The 
fact  that  Venice  was  a refuge  for  all  who  in  other  parts 
of  Italy  were  persecuted  for  their  faith  was  likewise  fa- 
vorable to  the  progress  of  Protestantism.  The  proceed- 
ings of  the  Diet  of  Augsburg  (1530)  excited  the  atten- 
tion of  the  friends  of  the  Reformation  at  Venice  to  a 
high  degree,  and  Lucio  Paolo  wrote  a pressing  letter  in 
their  name  to  Melancthon,  imploring  him  to  resist  to 
the  last.  Even  priests  were  found  in  the  evangelical 
party,  as  Valdo  Lupetino,  provincial  of  the  Franciscans, 
who  advised  liis  relative,  M.  Flacins,  of  Illyria,  after- 
wards one  of  the  champions  of  Protestantism,  to  go  to 
Germany,  where  he  would  learn  a better  theology  than 
he  woidd  find  in  a convent  (1537).  Through  such  men, 
who  were  in  personal  communication  with  the  reform- 
ers, Venice  remained  regularly  connected  with  Witten- 
berg. In  1539  Melancthon  addressed  an  epistle  to  Ven- 
ice which  affords  most  valuable  information  concerning 
the  position  of  the  evangelical  party  in  that  city  at  that 
time.  The  evangelical  party  increased  not  only  in  the 
city  of  Venice,  but  in  the  whole  territory  of  the  repub- 
lic, particularly  at  Vicenza  and  Treviso,  and  it  does  not 
appear  that  the  government  ever  interfered  with  its 
IV.— Y v 


peaceful  development.  It  is  only  after  1542  that,  at  the 
instigation  of  Rome,  the  Protestants  of  the  Venetian 
republic  began  to  experience  serious  difficulties.  Al- 
though very  numerous,  they  had  not  till  then  organized 
themselves  into  a society.  They  were  obliged  to  ob- 
serve the  greatest  caution  and  secrecy.  They  were 
without  a leader,  and,  besides,  there  were  differences  of 
opinion  dividing  them.  Balthasar  Altieri,  a native  of 
Aquila,  and  secretary  of  the  English  ambassador,  suc- 
ceeded in  uniting  them,  lie  also  wrote  to  Luther,  ask- 
ing him  to  obtain  for  the  Protestants,  through  the  in- 
tercession of  German  Protestant  princes,  permission  from 
the  senate  to  act  according  to  the  dictates  of  their  con- 
science, at  least  until  the  council  should  decide  on  the 
points  of  difference.  He  also  invoked  the  mediation  of 
Luther  to  allay  the  manifold  divisions  which  weakened 
the  Protestants  of  Venetia.  As  Italy  had  intercourse 
with  Switzerland  as  well  as  with  Germany,  both  the  Re- 
formed and  the  Lutheran  reformations  had  found  their 
adherents;  and,  in  particular,  disputes  arose  about  the 
doctrine  of  the  Eucharist.  Bucer  had  in  vain  endeav- 
ored to  heal  these  difficulties,  and  it  was  now  expected 
that  Luther  •would  be  more  successful.  The  answer  of 
Luther  expressed,  however,  distrust  towards  the  Swiss 
and  their  doctrines,  and  warned  the  people  against  the 
works  of  Bucer.  Melancthon  was  deeply  grieved  at  the 
tone  of  Luther’s  answer,  as  he  knew  the  Italians  to  be 
only  too  prone  to  indulge  in  discussions  and  arguments 
on  disputed  points  of  doctrine.  Probably  about  this 
time  secret  societies  began  to  be  formed  for  the  discus- 
sion of  theological  doctrines,  principally  concerning  the 
Trinity;  and  those  anti-Trinitarian  schemes  which,  in 
the  following  century,  separated  Italian  Protestantism 
from  that  of  other  countries,  originated  in  them.  About 
1542  the  principles  of  Protestantism  were  introduced 
into  Istria  by  Paolo  Vergcrio,  bishop  of  Capo  d’  Istria, 
and  for  a while  made  rapid  progress,  which,  however, 
was  soon  interrupted.  After  opposing  Protestantism 
for  a long  while,  particularly  in  Germany,  where  he 
was  for  a while  papal  legate,  and  took  part  as  such  in 
the  Conference  of  Worms,  Vergcrio  was,  by  the  reading 
of  Luther’s  works,  which  he  had  procured  for  the  pur- 
pose of  refuting  them,  brought,  to  embrace  their  views. 
His  first  convert  was  his  brother,  the  bishop  of  Pola. 
Both  now  labored  zealously,  and  with  great  success,  to 
evangelize  their  dioceses,  until  in  1545  the  Inquisition 
finally  interfered,  and  Vergcrio  was  obliged  to  fiee. 

Next  to  Venice;  Ferrara  became  one  of  the  central 
points  of  Protestantism.  It  was  introduced  there  by 
Renata,  wife  of  Hercules  II,  duke  of  Ferrara,  and  the 
daughter  of  Louis  XII,  king  of  France.  She  had  be- 
come acquainted  with  the  doctrines  of  the  Reformation 
through  Margaret  of  Navarre,  and  when  she  came  to 
Ferrara  in  1527,  she  soon  found  herself  surrounded  by 
persons  holding  the  same  views.  Some  were  scholars 
who  held  offices  in  the  university  or  at  court,  while 
others  were  refugees  who,  persecuted  in  their  own  coun- 
try for  their  Protestant  opinions,  found  there  a safe  ref- 
uge. Calvin  himself  spent  a few  months  there  in  1536, 
and  ever  after  remained  in  active  correspondence  with 
the  duchess;  also  Hubert  Languet,  who  distinguish- 
ed himself  in  the  history  of  the  French  Reformation. 
Among  the  Italians  were  Flaminio  and  Calcaguini,  a 
friend  of  Contarini  and  Poole ; Peter  Martyr  Vermigli, 
Aonio  Paleario,  and  Celio  Secundo  Curione,  who  won 
over  Peregriuo  Morata,  the  tutor  of  the  duke’s  brother, 
to  Protestantism.  The  learned  daughter  of  Morata, 
Olympia,  whose  letters  express  a truly  evangelical  spir- 
it, was  one  of  the  ornaments  of  the  court,  and  the  com- 
panion of  the  young  daughter  of  Renata. 

From  Ferrara  probably  the  movement  spread  over  to 
Modena,  which  belonged  also  to  the  duke  of  Ferrara. 
Already  in  1530  a papal  rescript  commanded  the  Inqui- 
sition to  use  every  exerthui  to  suppress  the  heretical 
tendency  among  t lie  monks  of  the  diocese  of  Ferrara. 
Yet  the  movement  did  not  really  break  out  until  1540, 
when  the  learned  Sicilian  Paolo  Ricci  came  to  Modena 


706 


ITALY 


ITALY 


and  established  a congregation  there.  Ladies  of  high 
rank  protected  the  new  doctrine,  especially  a certain 
countess  liangone.  As  a sign  of  the  spirit  of  opposition 
against  Lome,  we  may  mention  the  satires  which  were 
published,  as,  for  instance,  a letter  purporting  to  come 
from  Jesus  Christ,- and  worded  in  the  manner  of  the  pa- 
pal mandaments,  announcing  that  our  Lord  contempla- 
ted resuming  the  absolute  and  immediate  government 
of  the  Church  himself.  Cardinal  Morone,  bishop  of 
Modena,  although  evangelically  inclined  himself,  com- 
plained much  in  his  letters  (1540-1544),  written  during 
his  stay  in  Germany  as  papal  legate,  of  the  progress  of 
Protestantism  in  his  diocese,  and  said  he  was  told  that 
Modena  had  become  Lutheran.  But  with  the  news  of 
the  progress  of  the  Reformation  came  also  the  informa- 
tion that  the  differences  concerning  the  Eucharist  had 
arisen,  and  Bucer  wrote  to  the  Protestants  of  Modena 
and  Bologna  to  heal  the  breach  (1541).  At  Bologna, 
the  Germans  who  came  there  to  attend  the  university 
gained  many  supporters  to  evangelical  views ; the  most 
important  among  them  was  Giovanni  Mollio,  a Minor- 
ite, who  labored  long  as  a preacher  and  professor.  The 
presence  of  the  Saxon  ambassador,  John  of  Planitz,  who 
came  to  Bologna  with  Charles  V,  gave  the  Protestants 
an  opportunity  to  present  a request  in  which  they  asked 
for  tlie  convocation  of  a synod,  and  expressed  their  ven- 
eration for  the  German  princes  who  had  protected  Prot- 
estantism in  their  states.  They  hoped  by  the  council 
to  get  freed  from  the  yoke  of  Rome,  and  to  obtain  relig- 
ious liberty;  in  the  mean  time  they  wished  only  per- 
mission to  use  their  Bibles  without  being  on  that  ac- 
count considered  as  heretics.  The  movement  was  prop- 
agated also  through  other  parts  of  the  Papal  States,  at 
Faenza  and  lmola;  and  in  Rome  itself  there  were  many 
who  privately  approved  the  doctrines  of  Luther.  In 
Naples,  the  principles  of  the  Reformation  were  imported 
by  the  German  soldiers  in  1527,  and  they  appear  to  have 
taken  root,  for  an  impend  edict  was  issued  in  1536  to 
counteract  the  Protestant  tendencies  by  threatening  the 
severest  punishments  against  the  so-called  heretics. 
Yet  in  the  same  year  the  emperor  himself  sent  to  Na- 
ples the  man  who  was  destined  to  play  the  most,  impor- 
tant part  in  the  evangelization  of  Italy.  Juan  Valdez 
came  to  Naples  as  secretary  of  the  viceroy.  Position, 
education,  intelligence,  and  character  combined  to  make 
him  influential.  A small  but  eminent  circle  silently 
formed  around  him  for  reciprocal  edification  and  the 
promotion  of  an  inner,  living  Christianity.  Among 
them  wore  count  Galeazzo  Caraccioli,  nephew  of  pope 
Paul  IV;  t lie  martyr  Pietro  Carnesecchi,  Roman  proto- 
notary; Giulia  Gouzaga,  duchess  of  Trajetto;  Vittoria 
Colonna,  the  widow  of  Pescara;  and  the  noble  confessor 
Isabella  Maurica.  Valdez  only  continued  Iris  evangel- 
izing labors  for  fonr  years:  lie  died  in  1540.  But  his 
work  was  continued  by  two  of  bis  followers,  Pietro  Mar- 
tyr Vcrmigli  and  Bernardino  Occlrino.  The  former,  hav- 
ing been  scut  as  prior  to  an  Augustinian  convent  at 
Naples,  read  some  of  Bucer’s  and  Zwingle’s  works,  and, 
having  become  converted  to  their  doctrines,  he  began 
working  in  the  same  direction  as  Valdez.  He  delivered 
lectures  on  the  epistles  of  St.  Paul,  which  were  attended 
not  only  by  his  own  monks,  but  also  by  the  most  distin- 
guished members  of  the  clergy  and  the  laity.  In  the 
mean  time  the  Capuchin  Occlrino,  confessor  of  Paul  III, 
general  of  his  order,  and  one  of  t lie  most,  eminent  men 
of  the  Church  at  the  time,  was  invited  to  preacli  the 
Lent  sermons  at  Naples,  first  in  1536,  and  again  in  1539. 
An  attentive  reading  of  the  Bible  had  already  caused 
him  to  regard  faith  as  the  only  means  of  salvation ; Iris- 
intercourse  with  A aldez  strengthened  him  still  more  m 
Iris  views;  he  began  preaching  justification  by  faith, 
and  gained  many  adherents  by  his  fiery  eloquence.  Al- 
though none  of  these  men  thought  as  yet  to  separate 
from  the  Cliurcli  of  Rome,  they  were  soon  looked  upon 
with  suspicion.  The  Theatine  Cajetan,  friend  of  the 
zealot  Caraffa,  was  the  first  to  call  attention  to  them, 
vcrmigli  was  summoned  to  appear,  and  to  justify  him- 


self, but  was  saved  from  any  annoyance  this  time  by  the 
interference  of  several  cardinals.  Soon  after,  having 
been  at  Naples  for  about  three  years,  he  demanded  Ills 
recall ; and  having  been  appointed  prior  at  Lucca,  he 
began  to  labor  for  the  evangelization  of  this  new  field. 
New  persecutions  finally  decided  him  to  separate  openly 
from  the  Church  of  Rome,  and  to  flee  the  country  for 
safety.  Three  of  his  most  intimate  disciples  accompa- 
nied him  : Paolo  Lacisio,  afterwards  professor  at  Stras- 
burg,  Theodosio  Trebellio,  and  Giulio  Terenziano.  Eigh- 
teen others  followed  him  soon  after;  among  them  Celso 
Martinengho,  who  died  as  pastor  of  the  Italian  congre- 
gation at  Geneva ; Em.  Tremellio,  who,  after  various  vi- 
cissitudes, became  professor  of  Hebrew  at  the  Academy 
of  Sedan,  and  II.  Zanclii,  who  occupied  a distinguished 
place  among  the  most  eminent  theologians  of  Germany. 
At  Florence  Vermigli  met  with  Occlrino,  who,  stimulated 
by  his  example,  also  sacrificed  his  position,  and  left  Ita- 
ly. Another  champion  of  the  Reformation,  the  learned 
Celio  Secuudo  Curione,  replaced  for  a while  Martyr  in 
tlie  congregation  at  Lucca,  and  afterwards  labored  at 
various  places,  until  lie  also  was  obliged  to  seek  safety 
in  flight,  and  went  to  Switzerland. 

Thus  the  movement  had  become  general  throughout 
Italy.  Many  admitted  that  no  reforms  were  to  be  ex- 
pected from  the  Church  or  its  hierarchy,  and  separated 
from  it,  some  silently,  others  openly;  the  latter  inclined 
more  and  more  to  a union  with  the  Protestants  of  Ger- 
many and  Switzerland.  Still  a large  number  retained 
the  hope  that  the  Church  itself  would  make  the  neces- 
sary reforms,  either  by  the  long-wished-for  council,  or 
by  other  concessions.  The  evangelical  tendencies  final- 
ly acquired  such  influence,  even  among  the  clergy,  that 
pope  Paul  II T thought  it  best  to  make  apparently  some 
concessions;  he  appointed  Contarini,  Sadolet,  Poole,  and 
Fregoso  (but  at  the  same  time  also  Caraffa),  members 
of  the  college  of  cardinals.  As  a preliminary  step  to- 
wards the  convocation  of  a council,  he  formed  them,  to- 
gether with  some  other  prelates,  into  a congregation, 
with  the  mission  of  drawing  lip  a project  of  the  reforms 
most  needed.  Soon,  however,  the  uncompromising  op- 
ponents of  all  reformatory  measures  gained  the  ascend- 
ency with  the  pope,  and  it  was  resolved  to  put  down 
the  reformatory  movement  at  any  price.  A superior 
tribunal  of  tlie  Inquisition  was  established  at  Rome, 
with  full  power  of  life  and  death  in  all  cases  concerning 
religion,  and  acting  with  the  same  severity  against  all, 
without  distinction  of  rank  or  person.  The  bull  estab- 
lishing the  new  Congregation  of  the  Holy  Office  was  is- 
sued July  21, 1542.  It  was  composed  of  six  cardinals, 
with  Caraffa  at  their  head.  They  were  authorized  to 
appoint  envoys,  with  full  power  to  act  for  them  in  the 
different  provinces.  The  pope  alone  had  the  power  of 
pardoning  those  they  had  condemned.  The  new  insti- 
tution was  soon  adopted  in  Tuscany,  Milan,  and  Naples; 
all  the  Italian  states  gave  it  the  necessary  support. 
Venice  itself  was  unable  to  resist  its  introduction,  though 
here  lay  judges  were  joined  to  the  inquisitors.  Books 
were  also  subjected  to  the  judgment  of  tlie  Inquisition; 
after  1543  no  book  was  permitted  to  be  published  with- 
out its  sanction,  and  soon  there  appeared  lists  of  forbid- 
den books.  Next  to  the  Inquisition,  the  Council  of 
Trent  proved  a heavy  blow  to  Italian  Protestantism. 
Many  who  were  wavering  or  lacked  courage  were  in- 
duced to  return  to  the  old  fold  ; many  others  left  their 
native  land  for  safety,  and  a great  number  became  mar- 
tyrs to  their  faith  in  dungeons  or  at  the  stake.  Rome 
gave  the  signal  of  most  of  the  persecutions  which  the 
Protestants  suffered  in  Italy.  Caraffa  had  spies  every- 
where. Among  the  first  who  were  obliged  to  seek  safety 
in  flight  were  Occlrino  and  Vermigli.  The  congregation 
which  had  been  established  by  them  and  Valdez  at  Na- 
ples was  subjected  to  severe  attacks  as  soon  as  tlie  lat- 
ter was  dead;  many  of  its  members  gave  way  under 
the  persecution,  and  the  others  were  obliged  to  use  the 
utmost  secrecy.  Giovanni  Mollio,  of  Montalcino,  a Fran- 
ciscan, still  officiated  among  them  for  some  time,  but  he 


ITALY 


707 


ITALY 


also  was  obliged  to  leave  Naples  in  1543,  An  Augus- 
tiniau  from  Sicily,  Lorenzo  Romano,  subsequently  shared 
the  same  fate,  and  finally  became  reconciled  with  Rome. 

The  congregation  founded  at  Lucca  by  Peter  Vermigli 
met  with  the  same  fate.  Rome  compelled  the  senate  in 
1545  to  issne  severe  edicts  against  the  Protestants,  who 
here  also  submitted  to  outward  conformity,  and  by  so 
doing  lost  the  spirit  which  had  animated  them,  so  that 
when  the  Inquisition  was  really  established  among  them 
the  greater  number  became  reconciled  to  the  Church. 
Many,  however,  resisted  to  the  last,  and  a number  of 
prominent  citizens  left  for  Geneva,  Berne,  Lyon,  and 
other  plaees.  See  Inquisition. 

The  countess  of  Ferrara  was  no  longer  able  to  protect 
her  fellow-Protestants.  A papal  decree  commanded  that 
all  suspicious  persons  should  be  examined;  imprison- 
ment, banishment, death,  or,  at  best,  flight,  was  the  usual 
fate  of  the  accused.  Fannio,of  Faenza,  fell  a martyr  to 
his  faith.  Renata  herself  was  much  persecuted  by  her 
husband, but  remained  steadfast,  and  after  her  husband’s 
death  retired  to  France,  where  she  showed  herself  a 
courageous  protector  of  the  Protestants.  All  Italy  was 
awed  into  obedience  by  the  Inquisition.  The  prisons 
at  Rome  were  filled  with  prisoners  brought  from  all 
parts  of  Italy.  Mollio,  having  returned  from  Naples  to 
Bologna,  was  taken,  brought  to  Rome,  and  executed. 
The  Gospel  had  made  great  progress  among  the  Fran- 
ciscans, especially  in  Upper  Italy;  a large  number  of 
them  were  imprisoned,  others  escaped,  and  most  of  them 
were  compelled  to  recant.  The  persecution  became  still 
more  violent  when  Caraifa  himself,  aged  seventy-nine 
years,  ascended  the  papal  throne  in  1555  under  the  name 
of  Paul  IV.  To  purify  and  restore  the  Church  was  his 
chief  aim,  and,  in  order  to  attain  this,  he  was  most  zeal- 
ous in  the  persecution  of  all  unbelievers  and  heretics. 
He  spared  none — not  even  the  leaders  of  the  moderate 
reform  party.  The  most  distinguished  of  these  (Con- 
tarini  being  dead),  cardinal  Moronc,  remained  a prison- 
er until  the  pope’s  death,  in  the  eastlc  of  St.  Angelo. 
Bishop  Fosearari,  of  Modena,  and  Sail  Felice,  of  Cava, 
were  also  arrested,  while  cardinal  Poole  was  summoned 
to  come  from  England  to  justify  himself.  Among  the 
chief  points  of  accusation  against  Morone  were  that  he 
doubted  the  correctness  of  the  decisions  of  the  Council 
of  Trent,  especially  in  regard  to  justification;  that  he 
rejected  the  efficiency  of  good  works,  and  advised  his 
hearers  to  trust  only  in  the  redeeming  sacrifice  of  Christ. 
The  first  martyr  in  the  reign  of  Paul  IV  was  Pomponio 
Algieri,  who  had  labored  faithfully  for  the  propagation 
of  evangelical  views  at  Padua;  he  died  courageously  at 
the  stake.  Under  Pius  IV,  the  Inquisition  did  not  re- 
lent in  its  work.  He  was  himself  present  at  an  auto- 
da-fe  at  which  Ludovico  Paseali,  a minister  of  the  Wal- 
denses  of  Calabria,  was  executed.  When  the  Domini- 
can Ghislieri,  former  president  of  ihe  Inquisition,  and  a 
worthy  disciple  of  Caraffa,  ascended  the  papal  throne  in 
15C6,  under  the  name  of  Pius  V,  the  Inquisition  entered 
a new  era  of  prosperity.  lie  accomplished  the  final 
suppression  of  Protestantism  in  Italy.  Prisoners  were 
sent  to  Rome  from  all  parts  of  Italy.  The  duke  of  Flor- 
ence himself  sent  there,  as  his  peace-offering,  the  emi- 
nent apostolical  protonotary,  Pietro  Carnesecchi,  whom 
his  learning,  piety,  and  position  had  heretofore  protect- 
ed, and  who  now  became  a martyr.  The  same  fate  be- 
fel  Antonio  del  Pagliarici  (Aonio  I’aleario).  who,  as  pro- 
fessor of  rhetoric  at  Sienna,  Lucca,  and  Milan,  had  ac- 
quired universal  reputation,  and  who  is  generally  con- 
sidered as  the  author  of  the  treatise  Del  Benefcio  di 
Christo,  a truly  evangelical  work,  which,  by  its  clear 
exposition  of  the  doctrine  of  justification  by  faith,  gain- 
ed many  adherents  to  Protestantism. 

The  numerous  Protestants  of  Venctia  also  experienced 
the  effects  of  the  papal  persecution,  although  the  repub- 
lic resisted  the  Inquisition,  and  sought  to  counteract  it 
by  a number  of  decrees.  Already,  in  1542,  the  papal 
nuncio  Della  Casa  procured  the  arrest  of  a priest,  Giulio 
Milanese,  and,  soon  after,  that  of  the  provincial  of  the 


Minorites,  Baldo  Lnpetino.  The  former,  however,  suc- 
ceeded in  making  good  his  escape.  In  1546  pope  Paul 
III  gave  a fresh  impulse  to  the  persecutions,  and  many 
fled  the  country,  some  recanted,  and  others  were  im- 
prisoned for  life.  The  persecution  was  still  more  vio- 
lent in  the  neighborhood  of  Venice  than  in  the  city  it- 
self. The  bishop  of  Bergamo  himself,  Soranzo,  was 
obliged  to  go  to  Rome  to  give  an  account  of  his  faith, 
and  was  imprisoned.  A few  only  succeeded  in  hiding 
themselves  in  the  midst  of  the  greatest  dangers.  Alti- 
eri,  who  had  so  often  obtained  protection  for  the  Italian 
Protestants  from  the  princes  forming  the  League  of 
Smalcald,  was  at  last  in  danger  himself,  and,  after  many 
escapes,  died  poor  in  the  neighborhood  of  Brescia  in 
1550.  After  1557,  foreigners  who  visited  Venice  for 
study  or  commerce  received,  however,  some  degree  of 
protection.  This  encouraged  the  native  Protestants, 
who  called  a minister,  and  again  formed  a congregation 
in  private.  They  were  soon  betrayed,  and  most  of  them 
! imprisoned.  The  senate  now  for  the  first  time  consent- 
ed that  their  offence  should  be  punished  by  death.  They 
were  not  burnt,  however,  but  thrown  into  the  sea  at 
night.  Baldo  Lnpetino  was  among  these.  The  de- 
struction of  the  little  church  of  the  Waldenses,  who, 
since  the  end  of  the  14th  century,  had  settled  at  St. 
Pisto  and  Montalto,  in  Calabria,  is  one  of  the  saddest 
episodes  of  the  sad  history  of  Italian  Protestantism. 
The  other  evangelical  communities  of  Locarno,  etc.,  met 
with  the  same  fate. 

(3.)  Church  History  from  the  Suppression  of  the  Refor- 
mation until  the  present  Day. — Throughout  the  16th, 
17th,  and  18th  centuries  Italy  remained  dismembered 
into  a number  of  small  states,  which  prevented  the  peo- 
ple from  becoming  one  consolidated  nation.  Its  eccle- 
siastical history  during  this  period  is  as  unimportant 
as  the  political.  Only  once  an  aera  of  ecclesiastical  re- 
forms appeared  to  dawn,  when  Leopold,  grand-duke  of 
Tuscany,  brother  of  emperor  Joseph  II,  attempted,  by 
the  agency  of  Scipio  Ricci,  bishop  of  Pistoia  and  Prato, 
to  reform  the  polity  of  the  Church.  At  a synod  of  his 
clergy  which  Ricci  assembled  at  Pistoia  (1786),  and 
which  was  largely  attended,  the  principles  of  the  Galli- 
can  Church  and  of  the  most  liberal  Jansenism  were 
adopted ; the  prerogatives  claimed  by  the  popes,  and, in 
particular,  the  claim  of  infallibility,  were  severely  de- 
nounced, many  superstitious  ceremonies  were  abolished, 
and  it  was  determined  that  public  worship  should  be 
conducted  in  the  language  of  the  people,  and  that  the 
Scriptures  should  be  circulated  among  them.  But  these 
enactments  were  opposed  by  most  of  the  bishops  of  Tus- 
cany, and  when  Leopold  ascended  the  imperial  throne 
of  Austria,  the  hierarchy  obtained  a complete  victory. 
The  territorial  changes  which  the  French  republic  and 
the  first  Napoleon  introduced  in  Italy  were  not  of  long 
duration,  but  the  revolutionary  ideas  which  during  this 
period  had  been  kindled  in  the  minds  of  many  Italians 
survived.  A secret  society,  the  Carbonari,  which  at 
first  aimed  at  the  introduction  of  a universal  republic, 
but  subsequently  had  tilt  establishment  of  a national 
union  and  the  introduction  of  liberal  reforms,  and,  in 
particidar,  religious  toleration,  for  its  chief  object,  spread 
with  great  rapidity  throughout  the  peninsula,  and  be- 
came the  rallying-point  for  all  the  educated  Italians 
who  wished  to  break  the  omnipotent  influence  of  the 
Church  upon  the  political  and  social  affairs  of  the  peo- 
ple. The  Carbonari  sueeeeded  in  1821  in  compelling 
the  government  of  the  Two  Sicilies  to  grant  a liberal 
constitution,  but  an  armed  intervention  of  the  Austrians 
soou  restored  the  absolute  power  of  the  king  and  the 
despotic  influence  of  the  Church.  It  was,  however,  ap- 
parent that  the  educated  classes  of  Italy  only  yielded  to 
brutal  force,  and  that  the  desire  to  emancipate  the  peo- 
ple from  the  influence  of  the  priests,  and,  in  particular, 
from  the  temporal  rule  of  the  popes,  became  stronger 
every  year.  In  1830  a new  revolution  broke  out  in  the 
papal  provinces,  and  within  a fortnight  four  fifths  of  the 
States  of  the  Church  had  made  themselves  free  from 


ITALY 


ITALY 


papal  rule,  ami  constituted  themselves  an  independent 
state.  Again  it  required  the  armed  intervention  of  Aus- 
tria to  arrest  the  success  of  the  liberal  ami  cnti-papal 
movement  throughout  Italy.  1 he  accession  to  the 
throne  of  Sardinia  of  Charles  Albert  in  1831  gave,  how- 
ever, to  Italy  one  prince  who  openly  adhered  to  the  pro- 
gramme of  the  national  liberal  party,  and  therefore 
awakened  great  hopes  for  the  future.  In  the  same  \ ear 
Mazzini  organized  the  secret  society  Young  Italy,  which 
repeatedly  attempted  insurrections  for  the  purpose  of 
establishing  an  Italian  republic.  All  these  attempts 
were  unsuccessful,  but  they  greatly  increased  the  breach 
between  the  Italian  people  and  the  Church  of  Rome. 
The  liberal  priest  Y.  Gioberti,  in  his  work  on  the  moral 
and  political  primacy  of  the  Italians  (1843),  endeavored 
to  prove  that  a reconciliation  between  the  national  lib- 
eral party  and  a reformed  papacy  was  possible,  and  that 
the  best  way  for  securing  a political  regeneration  of  It- 
aly was  the  establishment  of  a confederation  of  the  sev- 
eral states,  with  a liberal  pope  at  its  head.  When,  in 
1816,  Gregory  XVI  died,  and  the  new  pope,  Pins  IX, 
seemed  to  adopt  some  of  the  views  of  Gioberti,  the  be- 
lief in  the  practicability  of  the  scheme  found  many  ad- 
herents among  the  liberal  party,  hut  the  large  body  of 
the  ultramontane  party  looked  upon  them  with  distrust, 
and  even  regarded  many  steps  taken  by  the  new  pope 
as  a mistaken  policy. 

The  revolutionary  movements  of  1848  at  first  appear- 
ed to  have  a great  influence  upon  the  religious  affairs 
of  the  country.  In  Rome  a Constituent  Assembly  was 
called,  which  on  Feb.  5, 1840, abolished  the  temporal  pow- 
er of  the  pope,  and  proclaimed  the  Roman  republic.  The 
greatest  enemies  of  the  papacy  in  Italy,  Mazzini  and 
Garibaldi,  were  at  the  head  of  the  republic,  which,  how- 
ever, only  a few  months  later  (June  4),  was  struck  down 
by  the  French  troops,  which  Louis  Napoleon,  the  presi- 
dent of  the  French  republic,  had  sent  there  for  the  res- 
toration of  the  temporal  power.  Rut,  although  the  rev- 
olutionary movements,  which,  if  successful,  woidd  have 
abolished  throughout  Italy  the  prerogatives  of  the 
Church  of  Rome,  were  unsuccessful,  one  of  the  state 
governments,  Sardinia,  remained  favorable  to  the  cause 
of  national  union  and  of  a liberal  legislation  in  the  prov- 
ince of  Church  affairs.  The  Legislature,  in  1850,  adopted 
liberal  laws,  introduced  by  the  minister  Siccardi  (hence 
called  the  Siccardian  laws),  which  provided,  1,  that  all 
civil  suits  must  be  decided  in  civil  courts  and  according 
to  the  common  law;  2,  that  all  priests  in  criminal  cases 
he  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  state;  3,  that  crim- 
inals may  be  arrested  in  churches  and  other  sacred 
places.  When  archbishop  Franzoni,  of  Turin,  resisted 
the  new  law  of  the  state,  he  was  promptly  arrested;  and 
when  he  refused  the  sacraments  of  the  Church  to  the 
dying  minister  Santa  Rosa,  he  was  deposed  from  his  of- 
fice (Sept.  2(5, 1850)  and  exiled.  The  archbishop  of  Cag- 
liari shared  his  fate.  In  the  threatening  allocutions  of 
the  pope  (the  first  dated  Nov.  1, 1850),  the  government 
replied  by  sequestrating  the  revenues  of  the  archbishop. 
In  consequence  of  the  violent  opposition  made  to  the 
government  by  the  monks,  the  ministry  of  Cavour  (1852- 
1858),  the  greatest  Italian  statesman  of  modern  times, 
issued  the  stringent  laws  of  March  2,  1855,  by  which 
the  convents  of  all  monks  who  did  not  devote  them- 
selves to  preaching,  to  instruction,  or  to  the  nursing  of 
the  sick  were  suppressed  (331  out  of  605).  The  papal 
anathema  against  the  authors  of  these  laws  remained 
without  the  least  effect.  On  the  contrary,  when  the 
king  of  Sardinia,  in  consequence  of  the  war  against  Aus- 
tria and  the  successful  revolutions  in  central  and  south- 
ern Italy,  united  all  the  provinces  of  Italy,  with  the  only 
execution  of  a part  of  the  papal  territory  and  of  Venc- 
tia,  into  the  kingdom  of  Italy,  the  liberal  Sardinian  laws 
were  not  only  retained,  hut  made  more  stringent.  No- 
body seemed  to  care  about  the  Church  laws  against 
those  who  spoliated  the  patrimony  of  St,  Peter  (the 
States  of  the  Church), and  on  Jan.  1,18(36,  the  obligatory 
civil  marriage  was  introduced.  The  government  and 


the  ParJLiament  were  fully  agreed  in  the  wish  to  coiru 
plete,  as  soon  as  possible,  the  unity  of  Italy,  by  the  an- 
nexation ofVenetia  and  the  remainder  of  the  papal  ter- 
ritory, inclusive  of  the  city  of  Rome.  In  accordance 
with  the  plan  of  Cavour,  the  Parliament,  as  early  as 
1861,  almost  unanimously  declared  in  favor  of  making 
Rome  the  capital  of  Italy,  though  they  expressed  a will- 
ingness to  give  to  the  pope  full  guarantees  for  the  free 
and  independent  exercise  of  his  ecclesiastical  functions. 
The  movements  of  Garibaldi  showed  that  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  papal  provinces  alone,  aided  by  volunteers 
from  other  parts  of  Italy,  would  have  been  fully  able  to 
depose  the  papal  government,  and  unite  the  territory 
with  the  kingdom  of  Italy;  and  it  required  the  presence 
of  a large  French  army  in  Rome  to  maintain  the  de- 
tested papal  rule.  Venctia  was  obtained  as  a result  of 
the  war  of  1866,  hut  the  expedition  of  Garibaldi  against 
Rome  in  1867  led  to  a new  occupation  of  the  papal  ter- 
ritory by  a French  army. 

The  wretched  financial  condition  of  Italy,  which  had 
become  more  threatening  than  ever  by  the  war  of  186(3, 
and  the  September  convention  of  1864,  by  which  the 
government  engaged  to  assume  a part  of  the  papal  debt, 
compelled  the  ministry  in  1867  to  bring  in  a hill  for  the 
confiscation  of  the  property  of  the  Church.  The  sub- 
ject had  been  under  deliberation  since  1865,  when  a per- 
sonal correspondence  took  place  between  the  pope  and 
the  king,  which  induced  the  latter  to  make  to  the 
Church  a few  concessions.  But  the  sale  of  the  Church 
property,  though  for  a time  delayed,  was  urgently  de- 
manded by  the  Parliament  and  public  opinion  as  the 
only  escape  from  a general  bankruptcy,  and  the  govern- 
ment therefore  laid  a bill  before  the  Parliament  which 
met  on  March  22, 1867 ; but  the  committee  elected  by 
the  Parliament  rejected  the  project  of  the  government 
as  too  compromising  and  not  sufficiently  radical,  and  in 
the  very  first  article  of  its  own  draft  demanded  the  ab- 
olition of  all  monastic  institutions,  and  the  confiscation 
of  the  whole  property  of  the  Church.  The  government 
yielded  to  the  views  of  the  committee,  and,  after  sever- 
al modifications  had  been  agreed  upon  by  the  govern- 
ment and  the  Parliament,  both  chambers  adopted  the 
bill  for  the  sale  of  the  Church  property  by  an  immense 
majority  (the  lower  chamber,  on  July  27,  by  296  votes 
against41;  the  senate,  on  Aug.  12,  by  84  against 29).  The 
actual  sale  began  at  Florence  on  October  26, 1867,  though 
even  before  this  drafts  on  the  revenue  to  be  realized  by 
the  sale  had  been  issued  to  the  amount  of  400  million 
francs.  The  new  excommunications  pronounced  against 
all  buyers  of  Church  property  failed  to  have  any  effect ; 
the  government  and  the  overwhelming  majority  of  both 
chambers  unwaveringly  persisted  in  carrying  out  the 
new  laws  concerning  the  Church  and  her  property. 

The  CEcumcnical  Council  which  was  opened  by  the 
pope  at  Rome  on  Dec.  8,  1869,  was  unable  to  improve 
the  influence  and  the  prospects  of  the  papacy  among 
the  Italians.  The  government,  the  Parliament,  and  the 
people  at  large  repudiated  the  claims  of  the  council 
more  generally  than  was  done  in  any  other  purely  Cath- 
olic country.  The  nation  became  more  impatient  than 
ever  for  the  overthrow  of  the  temporal  sovereignty  of 
the  pope,  and  the  incorporation  of  his  states  with  the 
kingdom ; and  when,  in  1870,  the  Franco-German  war 
caused  the  withdrawal  of  the  French  troops  from  Rome, 
and  ultimately  led  to  the  destruction  of  the  French  Em- 
pire, the  Italian  government  could  no  longer  resist  the 
popular  pressure  for  the  annexation  of  the  papal  states. 
In  September,  1870,  count  Ponza  di  San  Martino  was 
sent  to  Rome,  and,  in  the  name  of  the  Italian  govern- 
ment, proposed  to  the  pope  to  renounce  the  temporal 
rule  and  to  dissolve  his  army ; he  was,  in  this  case,  to 
retain  the  Leonine  part  of  Rome,  a civil  list,  and  the 
right  of  diplomatic  representation.  The  government 
also  offered  to  guarantee  the  free  exercise,  by  the  pope, 
the  bishops,  and  the  priests,  of  their  ecclesiastical  juris- 
diction, and  the  immunity  of  all  cardinals  and  ambas- 
sadors. When  the  pope  rejected  all  these  offers  of  com- 


ITALY 


709 


ITALY 


promise,  on  Sept.  11,  the  Italian  troops,  in  compliance 
with  numerous  petitions  from  the  subjects  of  the  pope, 
entered  the  States  of  the  Church,  and  on  Sept.  20,  by 
the  occupation  of  the  city  of  Home,  put  an  end  to  the 
temporal  power  of  the  pope.  A note  from  cardinal  An- 
tonelli,  the  secretary  of  state,  to  the  foreign  govern- 
ment, protested  against  the  act ; and  the  bishops  and 
the  ultramontane  party  in  all  the  countries  re-echoed 
the  protest,  and  many  princes,  both  Catholic  and  Prot- 
estant, were  called  upon  to  interfere  and  to  restore  the 
pope  to  his  throne.  The  pope  issued  a new  brief  of 
excommunication,  in  which  he  said,  “We  declare  to 
you,  venerable  brethren,  and  through  you  to  the  whole 
Church,  that  all  those  (in  whatever  notable  dignity  they 
may  shine)  who  have  been  guilty  of  the  invasion,  usur- 
pation, occupation  of  any  of  our  provinces,  or  of  this 
holy  city,  or  of  anything  connected  therewith,  and  like- 
wise all  who  have  commissioned,  favored,  aided,  coun- 
selled, adhered  to  them,  and  all  others  who  promote  or 
carry  out  the  things  aforesaid,  under  any  pretext  what- 
ever, and  in  any  manner  whatever,  have  incurred  the 
greater  excommunication  (excommunicatio  major),  and 
the  other  censures  and  penalties  which  have  been  pro- 
vided in  the  holy  canons  of  the  apostolical  constitutions 
and  the  decrees  of  the  oecumenical  councils,  in  particu- 
lar that  of  Trent.”  None  of  all  these  measures  produced 
the  least  effect.  When  the  first  Parliament  of  all  Italy 
met,  the  king  declared,  “ We  entered  Home  in  virtue  of 
the  national  right,  in  virtue  of  the  compact  which  unites 
all  Italians  to  one  nation.  We  shall  remain  there,  keep- 
ing the  promises  which  we  have  solemnly  given  to  our- 
selves ; freedom  of  the  Church,  entire  independence  of 
the  pope  in  the  exercise  of  his  religious  functions,  and 
in  his  relations  to  the  Catholic  Church.”  None  of  the 
foreign  governments  interrupted  its  amicable  relations 
with  the  Italian  government.  In  July,  1871,  the  gov- 
ernment transferred  its  seat  to  Rome,  where,  in  spite  of 
all  the  papal  excommunications,  it  received  the  enthu- 
siastic applause  of  a large  majority  of  the  Italian  peo- 
ple, and  where  it  was  at  once  followed  by  the  represent- 
atives of  all  the  foreign  governments. 

Although  nearly  all  the  bishops  and  the  overwhelm- 
ing majority  of  the  priests  showed  themselves  as  parti- 
sans of  the  papacy  in  its  struggle  against  the  govern- 
ment and  the  public  opinion  of  Italy,  the  idea  of  reform- 
ing the  Church  by  rejecting  all  or  much  of  the  corrup- 
tions which  had  crept  into  it  during  the  Middle  Ages 
and  in  modem  times,  and  by  reconciling  it  with  the 
civilization  of  the  19th  century,  found  more  adherents 
among  the  priests  of  Italy  than  among  those  of  any 
other  country.  In  a political  point  of  view,  the  reform- 
ers desired  the  Church,  in  particular,  to  abandon  the 
temporal  rule  of  the  pope,  to  recognise  the  national 
unity  of  Italy,  and  to  aid  in  carrying  through  a separ- 
ation between  Church  and  State.  In  th'e  province  of 
religion  they  all  wished  to  restrict  the  power  of  the 
popes,  to  enlarge  that  of  the  bishops,  and  one  portion 
went  so  far  as  to  enter  into  amicable  relations  with  the 
High-Church  party  of  the  Church  of  England.  They 
had  an  organ,  the  Examined  ore  of  Florence;  and  as  even 
one  of  the  six  hundred  bishops  (cardinal  D’Andrea),  and 
the  Jesuit  Passaglia,who  had  long  been  regarded  by  the 
ultramontane  party  as  one  of  their  ablest  theologians, 
and  other  men  of  high  prominence,  declared  their  con- 
currence with  a part  or  the  whole  of  the  reformatory 
projects,  there  seemed  to  be  good  reason  for  hoping  last- 
ing results  from  the  movement.  More  recently,  the  re- 
formatory movement  in  Germany,  headed  by  Dr.  Dol- 
lingcr,  has  found  the  warmest  sympathy  among  the 
Italian  reformers. 

After  the  suppression  of  the  Reformation  in  the  16th 
century,  cruel  laws  made  it  for  more  than  two  hundred 
years  impossible  for  any  Italian  to  declare  himself  a 
Protestant;  only  the  Wahlenses  (q.  v.),  in  their  remote 
valleys,  maintained  with  difficulty,  and  amidst  great  per- 
secutions, their  organization.  At  the  close  of  the  18th 
century  the  victorious  French  republic  recognised  the 


human  rights  of  the  Wahlenses,  and  proclaimed  relig- 
ious toleration;  but  the  restored  monarchies  revived 
some  of  the  most  intolerant,  laws,  and  even  the  Wal- 
denses  were  placed  in  so  unbearable  a position  that  it 
required  the  intervention  of  England  and  Prussia  to  se- 
cure for  them  the  merest  toleration.  At  length  the  lib- 
eral constitution  of  1848  gave  them  full  political  rights 
in  Sardinia;  they  were  allowed  to  step  forward  out  of 
their  seclusion  in  the  valley,  and,  with  the  most  hearty 
sympathy  of  all  friends  of  religious  toleration,  opened  a 
chapel  in  the  capital  of  the  kingdom,  Turin.  In  the  re- 
mainder of  Italy  the  persecution  of  the  Protestants  con- 
tinued. The  government  of  Tuscany,  though  by  no 
means  the  most  tyrannical  of  the  Italian  governments, 
startled  the  whole  civilized  world  by  its  cruel  measures 
against  the  Madiai  couple,  against  count  Guicciardini 
and  Dominieo  Cecchetti,  and  only  the  most  energetic 
remonstrances  of  the  foreign  powers  prevailed  upon  the 
graml-duke  to  change  the  penalty  of  imprisonment  into 
exile.  Finally,  in  1859,  the  establishment  of  the  king- 
dom of  Italy  gave  to  the  Wahlenses  the  liberty  of  ex- 
tending their  evangelistic  labors  to  all  parts  of  the  pe- 
ninsula. They  soon  occupied  a number  of  important 
places,  transferred  their  theological  seminary  to  Flor- 
ence, and  had  an  able  representative  in  the  Italian  Par- 
liament (the  Turin  banker  Malan).  Many  Italians, 
however,  who  were  eager  to  embrace  Protestant  views, 
did  not  share  all  the  views  of  the  Wahlenses,  especially 
those  on  the  ministry  and  the  Church,  and,  after  the 
model  of  the  Plymouth  Brethren  in  England,  organized 
free  Christian  organizations.  Of  their  leaders,  professor 
Mazarella  and  count  Guicciardini  are  the  best  known. 
Moreover,  a number  of  missionaries  were  sent  out  by  the 
Protestant  churches  of  the  United  States,  Great  Britain, 
and  other  countries,  who  laid  the  foundation  of  several 
other  Church  organizations.  Nearly  every  town  of  im- 
portance has  thus  received  the  nucleus  of  a Protestant 
population.  In  some  places  the  fanaticism  hf  the  priests 
caused  riots  against  Protestants,  none  of  which  was  so 
bloody  as  that  in  Barletta  in  1866;  but  the  government 
of  Italy,  and  the  immense  majority  of  the  Italian  Par- 
liaments, have  secured  the  complete  triumph  of  the 
cause  of  religious  toleration. 

II.  Statistics.  — Nearly  the  whole  population  of  It- 
aly is  nominally  connected  with  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church.  The  total  population  of  the  kingdom  was  es- 
timated in  1870  at  25,7GG,000;  of  whom  33,000  were 
Protestants,  30,000  Jews,  and  2000  members  of  the 
Greek  Church.  Practically  a large  portion  of  the  pop- 
idation  is  no  longer  in  communion  with  the  Church  of 
Rome,  as  can  easily  be  proved  by  the  fact  that  the  gov- 
ernment and  Parliament  have  been  for  years  in  open 
conflict  with  Rome,  and  utterly  disregard  and  set  aside 
the  laws  of  the  Church ; that  the  claims  of  the  pope 
have  only  a few  advocates  in  the  Parliament,  and  that, 
in  particular,  the  radical  party,  with  men  like  Mazzini 
and  Garibaldi  at  their  head,  have  openly  and  formally 
renounced  the  religious  communion  with  Rome. 

According  to  the  Papal  Almanac  (.4  nnuario  rontifico) 
for  1870,  the  country  had,  exclusive  of  Rome  and  of  the 
six  suburban  sees  (the  sees  of  the  cardinal  bishops),  Os- 
tia, Porto,  Palestrina,  Frascati,  Albano,  and  Sabina,  2G8 
dioceses,  which  were  distributed  among  the  former  Ital- 
ian states  as  follows : 


Arch- 

Bishop- 

Arch- 

bishop- 

1 Bishop- 

Naples 

25 

Veuetia 

2 

9 

j States  of  the) 

S9 

Lombardy 

1 

7 

Church  . . . f 

57 

Modena 

1 

4 

! Sardinia 

6 

82 

Parma 

3 

Tuscany 

4 

19 

Total 

47 

221 

Of  these  dioceses,  10  archbishoprics  and  66  bishoprics 
are  immediately  subject  to  the  pope,  and  without  con- 
nection with  an  ecclesiastical  province,  while  37  arch- 
bishops are  heads  of  ecclesiastical  provinces,  containing, 
besides  them,  155  suffragan  bishops.  The  dioceses  of 


ITALY 


710 


ITALY 


Italy,  in  point  of  territorial  extent,  are  smaller  than  in 
any  other  country ; ami  while  the  (nominally)  Catholic 
population  is  no  more  than  one  eighth  of  the  Homan 
Catholic  population  of  the  world,  it  lias  more  than  one 
fourth  of  all  the  dioceses.  Thus  the  Italian  bishops 
have  an  undue  preponderance  at  every  council;  and  as 
thev  generally  hold  the  most  ultramontane  views,  they 
have  considerably  contributed  to  the  success  of  idtra 
papal  theories  within  the  Catholic  Church.  The  gov- 
ernment of  Italy  has  expressed  a wish  to  reduce  the 
number  of  dioceses,  and  a considerable  number  has  there- 
fore been  kept  vacant  since  the  establishment  of  the 
kingdom. 

The  secular  clergy  in  IS66  had  about  115,000  mem- 
bers, or  about  1 to  every  245  inhabitants,  showing  a rel- 
atively larger  number  of  priests  than  in  any  other  coun- 
try of  the  world,  Besides  the  secular  clergy,  Italy  had 
in  18G0  more  than  60,000  monks  in  2050  establishments, 
and  about  30,000  nuns  in  302  establishments.  The 
most  numerous  among  the  monastic  orders  are  the  Fran- 
ciscan monks,  with  1227  houses;  the  Dominicans,  with 
140;  the  Augustinians,  with  138;  the  Carmelites,  with 
125 ; the  Jesuits,  with  57 ; the  Brothers  of  Charity,  with 
49;  the  Redemptorists,  with  31;  the  Franciscan  nuns, 
with  89;  the  Sisters  of  Charity,  with  50.  The  convents 
were  formerly  very  rich,  but  a large  portion  of  their 
property  was  confiscated  during  the  French  invasion  at 
the  end  of  the  18tli  and  the  beginning  of  the  1 9th  cen- 
tury. More  recently  the  government  of  Italy  lias  sup- 
pressed a large  portion  of  all  the  convents,  and  confis- 
cated tlieir  property.  In  I8GG,  the  total  number  of  con- 
vents suppressed  amounted  to  over  2000,  with  38,000 
inmates;  of  these,  1252,  with  20,228  inmates,  belonged 
to  the  mendicant  orders,  and  1IG2,  with  18,108  inmates, 
were  of  other  orders. 

Popular  instruction,  which  until  recently  was  chiefly 
in  the  hands  of  monks  and  nuns,  is,  according  to  official 
accounts,  in  a very  low  condition.  In  1862,  of  the  entire 
male  population,  o..ly  2,620,269  were  able  to  read;  of 
the  female,  only  1,258, ISO;  17,000,000  persons  were  un- 
able to  read  and  write.  Of  every  1000  persons,  there 
were,  unable  to  read — in  Lombardy,  599;  in  Piedmont, 
603;  in  Tuscany,  773 ; in  Modena,  799;  in  the  Romagna, 
802 ; in  Parma,  818 ; in  the  Marca,  851 ; in  Umbria,  858  ; 
in  Naples,  880;  in  Sicily,  902;  in  Sardinia,  911.  Since 
the  establishment  of  the  kingdom  of  Italy  public  in- 
struction lias  made  great  progress.  From  I860  to  1863 
the  number  of  male  teachers  increased  from  12,475  to 
17,004;  that  of  female  teachers  from  6631  to  13,817. 
The  number  of  educational  institutions  amounted  in 
1864  to  31,675,  which  were  attended  by  1,681,296  chil- 
dren. In  the  same  year  Italy  had  452  gymnasia,  with 
22,759  pupils;  123  lycea,  with  864  pupils;  and  344  sem- 
inaries, with  12,923  pupils.  There  were  20  universities, 
15  of  which  were  state  and  5 free.  Six  have  been  de- 
clared by  the  government  to  be  first-class  universities: 
Turin,  Pavia,  Bologna,  Florence,  Naples,  and  Palermo. 
The  number  of  students  had  in  I860  decreased  to  8148, 
from  15.668  in  1862. 

The  Church  of  the  Waldcnscs  is  the  only  fully  organ- 
i/.ed  Protestant  Church  in  Italy.  It  consists  of  16  com- 
munities, with  a membership  of  22,000.  Its  governing 
body  is  called  the  'fable.  The  Theological  School  in 
Florence  had  in  i860  3 professors  ( Revel,  Geymonat,  and 
Ik1  Sanctis)  and  14  students,  4 of  whom  were  formerly 
C atliolic  priests.  According  to  the  report  made  to  the 

aldensian  Synod  in  I860,  evangelistic  work  was  car- 
ried on  by  this  Church  at  23  principal  stations,  which 
were  thus  distributed:  7 in  Piedmont,  3 in  Lombardy, 

1 in  Fmiilia,  3 in  Liguria,  4 in  Tuscanv,  1 in  the  dis- 
trict of  Naples,  I in  Sicily,  1 in  the  Isle  of  Elba,  and  2 in 
France  for  Italians.  To  work  these  stations  it  employ- 
ed 19  pastors,  II  evangelists,  and  29  teachers— in  all,  59 
agents.  The  number  of  attendants  upon  public  wor- 
ship was  reckoned  at  from  2000  to  2500 ; that  of  com- 
municants at  1095.  At  the  Synod  of  1869  the  number 
of  stations  was  announced  as  amounting  to  36,  with  21 


pastors,  16  evangelists,  and  58  teachers — in  all,  95 
agents.  During  these  three  years  the  number  of  con- 
verts had  increased  900 ; favorable  reports  were,  in  par- 
ticular, made  of  the  congregations  in  PigncuJ.  Tu- 
rin, Venice  (in  which  city  the  congregation  numbered 
239  members),  Livorno,  where  the  school  was  attended 
by  300  children,  and  from  Messina,  where  the  rapidly 
increasing  number  of  attendants  at  divine  worship  made 
it  necessary  for  the  congregation  to  rent  three  times  in 
the  course  of  a single  week  larger  halls.  The  Nice  For- 
eigners’ Evangelization  Committee  employed  in  1867 
15  agents,  who  were  stationed  at  Rarletta,  Como,  Milan, 
Kara,  Florence,  Piverone,  Sardinia,  and  Sondrio.  The 
salaries  of  six  of  the  evangelists  arc  paid  by  the  Evan- 
gelical Continental  Society  of  London.  The  total  re- 
ceipts of  the  committee,  including  the  money  received 
from  the  Evangelical  Continental  Society,  were  £1323 ; 
the  expenditures  £1180.  The  American  and  Foreign 
Christian  Union  supports  more  than  40  agents  in  Italy. 
A Theological  Training  School  has  been  established  by 
the  society  at  Milan,  where  in  1866  the  Rev.  Air.  Clark, 
assisted  by  4 Italian  professors,  instructed  19  theological 
students,  superintended  churches  in  8 different  places, 
and  sustained  from  10  to  20  colporteurs  in  North  Italy. 
In  1870  the  training  school  was  transferred  to  the  care 
of  a Committee  of  Evangelization  appointed  by  the 
Free  Christian  Church  of  Italy.  This  body  was  for- 
mally organized  at  Milan  in  June,  1870,  and  consists  of 
a considerable  number  of  evangelical  churches,  two 
thirds  of  which  (more  than  20)  represent  the  results  of 
the  previous  expenditure  and  labor  of  this  society. 
These  churches  and  their  pastors  are  still  sustained  by 
the  board.  Another  missionary  of  the  society  superin- 
tended at  Sarzana  evangelistic  operations  in  some  10 
different  places.  The  Wesleyan  Missionary  Society  had 
in  1867  several  agents  in  Italy  under  the  superintend- 
ence of  the  Rev.  FI.  J.  Piggott  at  Padua.  A Ragged 
School,  supported  by  the  society  in  this  eitv,  was  regu- 
larly attended  by  40  lads.  Florence  also  had  prosperous 
schools ; there  were  increasing  congregations  at  Cremo- 
na, Parma,  Mezzano  Infcriore  (15  miles  from  Parma), 
and  at  Naples ; and  efforts,  with  some  success,  had  been 
made  in  other  places.  The  missionaries  and  other 
agents  were  sustained  at  a cost  of  about  $20,000.  The 
Scotch  Free  Church  had  several  ministers  settled  in  va- 
rious parts  of  Italy,  who  were  engaged,  in  addition  to 
their  regular  labors  among  their  countrymen,  in  super- 
intending the  work  of  Bible  distribution.  In  addition, 
to  these  Protestant  agencies,  free  evangelical  Italian 
churches  were  to  be  found  in  several  parts,  as  in  Genoa, 
Florence,  etc.,  all  of  tlum  being  more  or  less  allied  with 
the  Plymouth  Brethren. 

School-work  is  carried  on  in  connection  witli  most  of 
the  churches  and  stations.  In  Naples  there  were  in  1868 
4 schools,  with  14  teachers  and  373  children,  under  the 
direction  of  a special  committee.  There  were  3 Wal- 
densiau  schools  in  Florence  and  2 in  Leghorn.  The 
Waldensian  schools  in  the  valleys  numbered  80,  with 
3750  children  in  regular  attendance.  The  “Italian 
Evangelical  Publication  Society”  selects  and  translates 
religions  books  and  tracts  suitable  for  Italy,  and  prints 
them  at  the  lowest  possible  rate.  It  prints  the  Eco  della 
Verita  (weekly)  and  the  Amieo  di  Casa  (annual).  It 
has  published  232  new  works,  or  new  editions  of  works, 
amounting  to  520,000  copies,  and  has  sold  since  1862  as 
many  as  390,000  copies.  See  Herzog,  Real- Ency Hop. 
viii,  99;  Wetzer  u.  Welle,  Kirehen-Lexikon,  v,  582  sq. ; 
Wiggers,  Kirchl.  Stafistik,  ii,  3 sq. ; Neher,  Kirchl.  Ge- 
ogr.  u.  Stafistik,  i,  4 sq. ; Nippold,  Ilandbuch  der  neues- 
ten  Kirchengesch.  (2d  ed.  Elberf.  1868) ; Christian  Year- 
book (London,  1867  and  1868);  Uglielli,  Italia  Sacra 
(Pome,  1644,  6 vols.) ; M’Crie,  Hist,  of  the  Progress  and 
Suppression  of  the  Reformation  in  Italy  (Edinb.  1827); 
Erdmann,  Die.  Reformation  v.  ihre  Miirtzrer  in  Italien 
( Rerl.  1855) ; Leopold,  Ueber  die  Ursachen  eler  Reforma- 
tion und  deren  Verfull  in  Italien  (in  Zeitschrift  fur  hist. 
Thtol,  1843) ; Matthes,  Kirchl.  Chromic,  (A.  J.  S.) 


ITCH 


711 


ITINERANCY 


Itch  (D*in,  che'res,  from  &^in,  to  scratch  and  to 
burn),  an  intiammatory  irritation  of  the  skin,  threatened 
to  the  Israelites  as  an  infliction  in  ease  of  idolatry  (Dent, 
xxviii,  27) ; probably  some  cutaneous  or  eruptive  disor- 
der common  in  Egypt,  but  of  what  peculiar  character  is 
uncertain,  if,  indeed,  any  peculiar  malady  is  intended. 
See  Disease. 

Ith,  Johann,  a German  theologian  and  philosopher 
of  some  note,  was  born  at  Herne,  Switzerland,  in  1747. 
In  1781  he  was  appointed  to  the  chair  of  philosophy  at 
the  university  of  his  native  place,  where  he  had  also 
pursued  his  studies,  but  in  179(3  he  entered  the  ministry, 
and  settled  at  Siselen,  where  he  lived  until  1799,  when 
he  was  elected  dean  and  president  of  the  committee  of 
education  and  religion  in  the  canton  of  Herne,  lie  died 
in  1813.  Hesides  a number  of  philosophical,  philolog- 
ical, paxlogogical,  and  even  homiletical  works,  he  wrote 
Versuch  einer  Antliropologie  oder  Philosophic  der  Men- 
schen  (Herne,  1794-5,  2 vols. ; new  edit.  1803  sip),  which 
is  a very  valuable  work: — Verlialtnisse  d.  Staats  z.  Re- 
ligion u.  Kirche  (ibid.  1798,  8vo)  : — Sittenlehre  der  Bra- 
minen  (ibid.  1794,  8vo),  really  a reproduction  of  his 
translation  of  Ezour -Vulam,  an  old  Hindu  work  on  mor- 
als and  religion.  See  Krug,  Philos.  Wurterbucli,  ii,  558. 
(J.  1I.W.) 

Ifchacitts.  See  Id  actus. 

Ith'a’f  (I  Chron.  xi,  31).  See  Ittai. 

Ith'amar  (Heb.  Ithamar',  ‘VarPX, palm-isle;  but 
according  to  Fiirst,  not  high,  i.  e.  little;  Sept.  T&a/mp ; 
Josephus  ’l&apaooe,  Ant.  viii,  1,  3),  the  fourth  and 
youngest  son  of  Aaron  (1  Chron.  vi,  3).  H.C.  1G58.  He 
was  consecrated  to  the  priesthood  along  with  his  broth- 
ers (Exod.  vi,  23 ; Numb,  iii,  2,  3) ; and  after  the  death 
of  Nadab  and  Abihu  (Lev.  x,  1 sq.),  as  they  left  no 
children,  he  and  Eleazar  alone  remained  to  discharge 
the  priestly  functions  (Lev.  x,  G,  12;  Numb,  iii,  4 ; xxvi, 
60  sq.;  1 Chron.  xxiv,  2).  Nothing  is  individually  re- 
corded of  him,  except  that  the  property  of  the  taberna- 
cle was  placed  under  his  charge  (Exod.  xxxviii,  21), 
and  that  he  superintended  all  matters  connected  with 
its  removal  by  the  Levitical  sections  of  Gershon  and 
Merari  (Numb,  iv,  28).  The  sacred  utensils  and  their 
removal  were  intrusted  to  his  elder  brother  Eleazar, 
whose  family  was  larger  than  that  of  Ithamar  (1  Chron. 
xxiv,  4).  Ithamar,  with  his  descendants,  occupied  the 
position  of  common  priests  till  the  high-priesthood  pass- 
ed into  his  family  in  the  person  of  Eli,  under  circum- 
stances of  which  we  are  ignorant.  See  Eli.  Ahiathar, 
whom  Solomon  deposed,  was  the  last  high-priest  of  that 
line,  and  the  pontificate  then  reverted  to  the  elder  line 
of  Eleazar  in  the  person  of  Zadok  (1  Kings  ii,  27).  See 
Higii-priest.  The  traditionary  tomb  of  Ithamar  is 
still  shown  near  that  of  his  brother  Eleazar  in  the  hill 
of  Phinehas  (Schwarz,  Palest,  p.  151).  A priest  by  the 
name  of  Daniel,  of  his  posterity,  returned  from  Babylon 
(Ezra  viii,  2 ; 1 Esdr.  viii,  29). 

Ith'iel  (Heb.  IthieV,  bx^X,  for  Kx  *’SX,  God 
until  me,  or,  according  to  Fiirst,  the  property  of  God; 
Sept,  kiSiif,  Vulg.  Etheel;  but  in  Prov.  xxxi,  1,  both 
translate  ot  irarrivov-tQ  5ttp,  cum  quo  est  Deus  and  Deo 
secum  morante ),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  A person  mentioned  along  with  Ucal  in  Prov. 
xxx,  1,  apparently  as  one  to  whom  the  “ words  of  Agur’s 
prophecy”  had  been  addressed.  B.C.  perhaps  cir.  990. 
See  Agur.  Gesenius  ( Thesam \ Ileb.  p.  88)  thinks  that 
Ithiel  and  Ucal  were  the  children  or  disciples  of  Agur, 
to  whom  he  inscribed  his  aphorisms ; others  regard  both 
words  as  appellatives,  and  render  the  whole  clause  as 
follows : “ Thus  spake  the  man : I hare  toiled  for  God, 
I have  toiled  for  God,  and  have  ceased”  (see  Stuart’s 
Comment,  ad  loc.). 

2.  The  son  of  Jesaiah  and  father  of  Maaseiah,  a Ben- 
jamite,  one  of  whose  posterity  returned  with  a party 
from  Babylon  (Nek.  xi,  7).  B.C.  long  ante  53G. 


Ith 'm ah  (Ileb.  Yithmah',  orphanage ; Sept. 

’ItSepu),  a Moabite,  and  one  of  David’s  supplementary 
body-guard  (L  Chron.  xi,  4G).  B.C.  1046.  See  David. 

Ith'nan  (Heh.  Yithnan',  bestowed,  otherwise 
distance;  Sept.  ’Yhvdv  [but  the  Vat.  MS.  joins  it  to  the 
preceding  word,  ’Aaopaovav,  and  the  Alex,  to  the  fol- 
lowing, T3j/cr£i0],Yidg.  Jethmni),  one  of  the  cities  in 
the  south  of  Judah,  mentioned  between  Ilazor  and  Zipli 
(Josh,  xv,  23) ; perhaps  lying  along  the  southern  edge 
of  the  highland  district.  It  cannot  well  have  been  the 
Jedna  of  the  Onomasticon  (’ItSvci,  the  modern  Jdhna), 
for  this  is  in  the  mountains  west  of  Hebron  (see  Keil’s 
Comment,  ad  loc,).  The  enumeration  in  ver.  32  requires 
us  to  join  this  with  the  following  (there  being  no  copula 
between),  Itlinan-Ziph,  i.  e.  Zephath  (q.  v.).  See  Ju- 
dah. 

Ith'ra  (Heb.  Yithra ',  X^r**,  excellence;  Sept.  ’U- 
Srp,  Vulg.  Jetra),  an  Israelite  (probably  an  error  of  tran- 
scription [see  Thenius,  Comment,  ad  loc.] ; a Jezreelite, 
according  to  the  Sept,  and  Vulg.;  but  [more  correctly] 
an  Ishmaelite,  according  to  1 Chron.  ii,  17),  and  father 
of  Amasa  (David’s  general)  by  Abigail,  David’s  sister 
(1  Kings  ii,  5);  elsewhere  called  J ether  (2  Sam.  xvii, 
25).  B.C.  ante  1023. 

Ith'ran  (Heb.  Yithran',‘^7}'),  excellent ),  the  name 
of  one  or  two  men. 

1.  (Sept.  TSpar,  'I &pav;  Vulg.  Jethram,  Jet h ran.) 
One  of  the  sons  of  Dislion,  and  grandson  of  Seir  the 
Horite  (Gen.  xxxvi,  26 ; 1 Chron.  i,  41).  H.C.  cir.  1964. 

2.  (Sept.  TeSep,  Vulg.  Jethran.)  Apparently  one  of 
the  sons  of  Zopliah,  the  great-grandson  of  Asher  (1 
Chron.  vii,  37);  probably  the  same  as  Jetiier  in  v.  58. 
B.C.  long  post  1856. 

Ith'ream  (Ileb.  Yithream',  superabundance 

of  the  people  ; Sept.  ’ItSspadp,  ’IsSpr/p  ; Josephus  Fe- 
iportpjjt'  [Ant.  vii,  i,  4]),  David’s  sixth  son,  born  of 
Eglah  in  llebron  (2  Sam.  iii,  5;  1 Chron.  iii,  3).  B.C. 
1045.  In  the  ancient  Jewish  traditions  (Jerome,  Qucest. 
Ileb.  in  2 Sam.  iii,  5;  v,  23)  Eglah  is  said  to  have  been 
Miclial,  and  to  have  died  in  giving  birth  to  Ithream ; 
but  this  is  at  variance  with  the  Bible. 

ItlUrite,  or,  rather,  Je'tiierite  (Weh.Yithri', 

Sept.  ’IfSrpaioc  and  Te3ep«,  but  AtSaXeip.  in  1 Chron. 
ii,  53;  Vulg.  Jethrites  and  Jethro? us  or  Jethreus),  the 
posterity  of  some  Jetiier  mentioned  as  resident  in  Kir- 
jath-jearim  (A.V.  “the  Ithrites”  [1  Chron.  ii,  53]); 
probably  the  descendants  of  Ilobab,  the  brother-in-law 
of  Moses  (who  settled  in  this  region,  Judges  i,  16),  and 
so  called  as  being  thus  the  posterity  of  Jethro,  the  fa- 
ther-in-law of  Moses.  See  Kenite,  Two  of  David’s 
famous  warriors,  Ira  and  Gareb,  belonged  to  this  clan 
(2  Sam.  xxiii,  38 ; 1 Chron.  xi,  40).  See  David.  Ira 
has  been  supposed  to  be  identical  with  “ Ira  the  Jairite,” 
David’s  priest  (2  Sam.  xx,  26).  According  to  another 
supposition,  Jether  maybe  only  another  form  for  Ithra 
(2  Sam.  xvii,  25),  the  brother-in-law  of  David,  and  it  is 
possible  that  the  “ Ithrites,”  as  a family,  sprang  from 
him.  According  to  still  another  supposition,  the  two 
Itlirite  heroes  of  David’s  guard  may  have  come  from 
Jattir,  in  the  mountains  of  Judah,  one  of  the  places 
which  were  the  “haunt”  of  David  and  his  men  in  their 
freebooting  wanderings,  and  where  he  had  “friends”  (1 
Sam.  xxx,  27 ; comp.  31). 

Itinerancy,  a word  which  Methodism  has  adopted 
in  its  ecclesiastical  terminology  as  expressing  one  of 
the  most  characteristic  features  of  that  religious  denom- 
ination. Wesley’s  plans  for  the  revival  of  Christian 
life  throughout  the  United  Kingdom  rendered  it  neces- 
sary that  he  should  travel  from  town  to  town.  He  did 
so  quite  systematically  through  his  long  life.  Very 
early  a few  talented  laymen  were  commissioned  by  him 
to  preach  in  the  societies  which  he  had  organized  dur- 
ing his  own  absence,  for  he  usually  staid  but  a day  or 
1 two  in  any  one  place.  These  lay  preachers,  or  “ help- 


ITINERANCY  712 

ers as  he  called  them,  soon  multiplied  to  scores,  at  last 
to  hundreds;  but  the  societies  demanding  their  labors 
in  the  intervals  of  the  great  preacher’s  visits  multiplied 
still  faster.  As  early  as  his  third  Conference  (May,  17 46), 
he  saw  the  necessity  of  extending  and  methodizing  the 
labors  of  his  “helpers”  on  some  plan  of  “itinerancy.” 

He  appointed  them,  therefore,  to  definitive  “circuits” 
this  year.  The  word  “circuit”  has  ever  since  been  an 
important  technical  term  in  Methodism.  The  “ Min- 
utes,” or  journal  of  this  Conference,  show  that  the  whole 
country  was  mapped  into  seven  of  these  “ itinerant”  dis- 
tricts. * Wales  and  Cornwall  each  constituted  one  ; New- 
castle and  its  neighboring  towns  another.  That  of  York- 
shire comprised  seven  counties.  London,  Bristol,  and 
Evesham  were  the  head-quarters  of  others.  By  1749 
there  were  twenty  of  these  “rounds”  in  England,  two  in 
Wales,  two  in  Scotland,  and  seven  in  Ireland ; and  at 
Wesley’s  death  there  were  seventy-two  in  England, 
three  in  Wales,  seven  in  Scotland,  and  twenty-eight  in 
Ireland.  The  circuits  were  long,  comprising  at  least 
thirty  “ appointments”  for  eaeh  month,  or  about  one  a 
day.  The  preachers  were  changed  at  first  from  one  cir- 
cuit to  another,  usually  every  year,  and  invariably  ev- 
ery two  years;  sometimes  from  England  to  Scotland, 
Ireland,  Wales,  and  back  again. 

The  “circuit  system”  has  been  retained  in  England 
down  to  our  day ; even  the  churches  of  the  large  cities 
are  combined  under  a “circuit”  pastorate.  In  “Ameri- 
ca,” the  societies  in  cities,  and  also  the  large  societies  in 
the  country,  are  generally  “stations,”  each  being  sup- 
plied by  its  own  pastor.  The  “ circuit  system,”  howev- 
er, is  maintained  among  the  feebler  churches,  and  quite 
generally  in  the  Far  West,  and  nearly  everywhere  along 
the  frontier  settlements  of  the  country. 

Two  other  characteristic  features  of  Wesley’s  system 
rendered  the  “ itinerancy”  not  only  possibly,  bnt  nota- 
bly effective.  The  “local”  ministry — consisting  of  gift- 
ed laymen  in  secular  business — supplied  the  pulpits  in 
the  absence  of  the  “regular”  or  itinerant  preachers,  as 
the  latter  could  appear  in  any  given  place  on  their  long 
circuits  but  once  a fortnight,  in  most  eases  but  once  a 
month,  and  in  others  but  once  in  six  weeks.  Thus 
public  ministrations  were  kept  up  every  Sunday.  The 
class-meeting, comprising  twelve  “members,”  under  an 
experienced  “leader,”  met  weekly,  and  thus  a sort  of 
pastoral  supervision  of  the  whole  membership  was  main- 
tained in  the  absence  of  the  authorized  pastor  or  itin- 
erant. See  Lav  Ministry. 

In  these  facts,  so  co-ordinate  and  co-operative,  we 
have  the  chief  explanation  of  the  remarkable  success  of 
Wesley’s  ministerial  system.  Some  of  the  circuits,  in 
our  own  country  especially,  were  five  or  six  hundred 
miles  in  extent,  including  scores  or  hundreds  of  socie- 
ties or  “appointments,”  each  of  which  was  regularly 
visited,  at  intervals  of  four  or  six  weeks,  by  the  “circuit 
preacher,”  and  meanwhile  the  “loeal  preachers”  and 
“ class-leaders”  kept  each  fully  supplied  with  Sabbath, 
and,  indeed,  almost  daily  religious  services.  In  nothing, 
perhaps,  does  the  legislative  genius  of  Wesley,  so  high- 
ly estimated  by  iSouthey,  Maeaulav,  and  Buckle,  more 
strikingly  appear  than  in  this  combination  of  pastoral 
provisions. 

If  its  adaptation  to  England  was  eminent,  it  was  pre- 
eminent in  America,  where  the  customary  local  pastorate 
of  other  denominations  seemed  to  afford  no  adequate 
provision  for  the  prodigiously  advancing  population  and 
settlement  of  the  country.  “ Methodism,  with  its  ‘ lav 
ministry’  and  its 1 itinerancy,’  could  alone  afford  the  min- 
istrations of  religion  to  this  overflowing  population  ; it 
was  to  lay  the  moral  foundations  of  many  of  the  great 
states  of  the  West.  The  older  churches  of  the  colonies 
could  never  have  supplied  them  with  ; regular’  or  edu- 
cated pastors  in  any  proportion  to  their  rapid  settlement. 
Methodism  met  this  necessity  in  a manner  that  should 
command  the  national  gratitude.  It  was  to  become  at 
last  the  dominant  popular  faith  of  the  country,  with  its 
standard  planted  in  every  eity,  town,  and  almost  every 


ITINERANCY 


village  of  the  land.  Moving  in  the  van  of  emigiation, 
it  was  to  supply  with  the  means  of  religion  the  frontiers, 
from  the  Canadas  to  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  from  Puget’s 
Sound  to  the  Gulf  of  California.  It  was  to  do  this  in- 
dispensable work  by  means  peculiar  to  itself;  by  dis- 
tricting the  land  into  circuits  which,  from  one  hundred 
to  five  hundred  miles  in  extent,  could  each  be  statedly 
supplied  with  religious  instruction  by  one  or  two  trav- 
elling evangelists,  who,  preaching  daily,  could  thus  have 
charge  of  parishes  comprising  hundreds  of  miles  and 
tens  of  thousands  of  souls.  It  was  to  raise  up,  without 
delay  for  preparatory  training,  and  thrust  out  upon  these 
circuits,  thousands  of  such  itinerants,  tens  of  thousands 
of  * local’  or  lay  preachers  and  ‘ exhorters,’  as  auxiliary 
and  unpaid  laborers,  with  many  thousands  of  class-lead- 
ers, who  could  maintain  pastoral  supervision  over  the 
infant  societies  in  the  absence  of  the  itinerant  preach- 
ers, the  latter  not  having  time  to  delay  in  any  locality 
for  much  more  than  the  public  services  of  the  pulpit. 
Over  all  these  circuits  it  was  to  maintain  the  watchful 
jurisdiction  of  travelling  presiding  elders,  and  over  the 
whole  system  the  superintendence  of  travelling  bishops, 
to  whom  the  entire  nation  was  to  be  a common  diocese” 
(Stevens , History  of  Methodism).  “Without  any  dis- 
paragement of  other  churches,  we  may  easily  see  that 
they  were  not  in  a state  to  meet  the  pressing  wants  of 
the  country.  The  Episcopal  Church  was  much  shat- 
tered and  enfeebled,  was  destitute  of  the  episcopal  or- 
der, had  to  wait  long,  and  urge  her  plea  ardently  upon 
the  attention  of  the  bishops  of  England  before  they 
could  procure  consecration  for  any  of  her  ministers  (and, 
as  is  well  known,  the  non-existence  of  a bishop  involves 
amongst  the  Episcopalians  the  non-existence  of  the 
Church),  so  that  this  community  was  not  in  a position 
to  undertake  to  any  great  extent  an  aggressive  service. 
The  principles  of  the  Independents,  which  subordinate 
the  call  of  a minister  to  the  voice  of  the  Church,  placed 
a bar  in  the  way  of  their  seeking  the  outlying  popula- 
tion, inasmuch  as  there  were  no  Churches  to  address  this 
call ; and,  thoifgh  the  Presbyterian  system  is  not  nec- 
essarily so  stringent  in  these  matters  as  Independent 
churches  acting  on  their  theories,  yet,  as  they  cannot 
move  without  the  aetion  of  their  syuodieal  bodies,  there 
was  little  prospect  of  their  doing  much  missionary  work. 
Thus  this  work  fell  very  much  into  the  hands  of  the 
Methodist  itinerancy.  The  men  were  admirably  fitted 
for  their  task.  Rich  in  religious  enjoyment,  full  of  faith 
and  love,  zealous  and  energetic,  trained  to  labor  and  ex- 
ertion, actuated  by  one  single  motive — that  of  glorifying 
God,  they  thought  not  of  privation,  but  unhesitatingly 
followed  the  emigrants  and  * squatters’  in  their  peregri- 
nations wherever  they  went.  American  society  was 
thus  imbued  with  Christian  truth  and  principle,  as  well 
as  accustomed  to  religious  ordinances,  in  its  normal 
state”  ( London  Quarterly  Review,  October,  1854,  p.  125). 

Wesley  started  with  no  “ theory”  of  ministerial  itin- 
erancy. The  expediency  of  the  plan  alone  led  to  its 
adoption ; but  he  died  believing  in  it  as  a theory,  as,  in- 
deed, the  apostolic  plan  of  evangelization.  In  his  esti- 
mation, it  not  only  had  a salutary  effect  on  the  evangel- 
ists, by  keeping  them  energetic  and  chivalrous,  but  it 
had  the  capital  advantage  of  enabling  one  preacher  to 
minister  the  truth  to  many  places,  and  it  made  small 
abilities  available  on  a large  scale.  He  says  that  he  be- 
lieves he  should  himself  preach  even  his  congregation 
“ asleep”  were  he  to  stay  in  one  place  an  entire  year. 
Nor  could  he  “ believe  that  it  was  ever  the  Lord’s  will 
that  any  congregation  should  have  one  teacher  only.” 
“ We  have  found,”  he  writes,  “ by  long  and  constant  ex- 
perience, that  a frequent  exchange  of  teachers  is  best. 
This  preaeher  has  one  talent,  that  another.  No  one 
whom  I ever  yet  knew  has  all  the  talents  which  are 
needful  for  beginning,  continuing,  and  perfecting  the 
work  of  grace  in  a whole  congregation.”  (A.  S.) 

There  ean  be  no  question  that  an  itinerant  ministry 
has  the  sanction  of  the  highest  scriptural  examples. 
Christ  was  an  itinerant.  His  ministry  in  the  flesh  was 


ITINERANCY 


713 


ITINERANCY 


not  a settled  pastorate ; he  went  about  doing  good. 
The  twelve  disciples  were  itinerants,  both  before  and 
after  the  crucifixion  and  resurrection.  They  went  from 
city  to  city  preaching  the  Gospel  of  the  kingdom.  And 
the  prophets  before  them  were  itinerants.  Samuel  had 
his  circle  of  appointments;  Elijah,  and,  after  him,  Eli- 
sha, had  no  settled  abode  even,  but  moved  about  from 
place  to  place.  These  were  all  itinerants.  If  in  the 
early  Christian  Church,  even  while,  the  apostles  were 
yet  at  work,  there  are  evidences  that  a stationary  min- 
istry was  occasionally  introduced,  it  does  not  appear  to 
have  entered  into  the  original  plan  of  the  Gospel  of  Je- 
sus Christ.  “Is  there  one  word,”  says  Beauchamp 
(Letters  on  the  Call  and  Qualifications  of  Ministers  of 
the  Gospel  [Charleston,  S.  C.,  1849,  18mo],  page  97), 
perhaps  too  strongly,  “in  the  New  Testament  from 
which  anything  can  be  inferred  in  favor  of  a settled 
ministry?  The  whole  of  this  sacred  book  breathes  the 
spirit  of  itinerancy;  and  all  the  transactions  record- 
ed in  it,  in  reference  to  the  ministry,  agree  with  this 
spirit.”  Nay,  it  is  unquestionably  true  that  in  the  early 
Christian  Church,  though  many  were  in  favor  of  a set- 
tled ministry,  and  numerous  the  efforts  to  bring  it  about, 
most  of  the  Christian  preachers  were  “itinerants.”  In 
the  Latin  Church,  itinerant  preachers  have  ever  been 
employed : they  form  a special  religions  order — a class 
of  preaching  monks  (comp.  D’Aubigne,  Ilistoire  de  la 
Heformation , v,  102).  Thus  Bercngcr,  in  France,  em- 
ployed itinerant  ministers  to  spread  his  objections  to  the 
doctrine  of  transnbstantiation ; Wycliffe,  in  England, 
introduced  the  system  of  itinerant  preaching,  and  the 
Swiss  historian  goes  so  far  even  as  tfi  assert  that  the  re- 
formatory movements  among  the  Christians  of  England 
have  all  been  marked  by  an  effort  to  introduce  the  sys- 
tem of  itinerant  preaching.  “ This  kind  of  preaching 
always  reappears  in  England  in  the  grand  epochs  of  the 
Church”  (ibid.  p.  103).  But  if  Wyclitfe  and  the  Keform- 
ers  were  first  in  their  efforts  to  introduce  itinerantpreach- 
ing,  it  is  to  Wesley,  nevertheless,  that  alone  is  due  the 
credit  of  organizing  “itinerancy”  as  a permanent  and 
universal  scheme  of  ministerial  labor  throughout  a large 
denomination. 

The  itinerancy  has  always  been  a feature  cherished 
with  jealous  care  ty  the  Methodist  bodies,  and  with  re- 
spect to  bishops  it  is  hedged  about  by  one  of  the  re- 
strictive rides  in  the  Meth.  Epis.  Church  (see  their  Dis- 
cipline, Powers  of  the  General  Conference).  The  length 
of  time  for  which  the  travelling  preachers  may  remain 
on  the  same  “charge”  (whether  a circuit  or  station)  has 
varied  at  different  times  in  the  Methodist  Episcopal 
Church,  and  is  now  limited  to  three  years.  “ Presiding 
elders”  can  remain  only  four  years  on  the  same  “dis- 
trict.” 

As  to  the  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  itiner- 
ant system,  no  one  has  given  a more  unbiased  account 
of  the  objections  that  have  thus  far  been  presented 
against  the  continuation  of  “itinerancy”  than  Dr.  Crane 
( Method . Quart.  Her.,  Jan.  I860, p.  73  sq.),and  we  follow 
him  in  the  main,  supplementing  it  only  with  what  comes 
from  other  churches. 

1.  “ The  people  are  restricted  in  the  choice  of  their 
pastors.”  If  this  be  true,  no  other  system  so  soon  rem- 
edies the  difficulty  as  the  itinerancy,  for  it  secures  at 
the  same  time  with  the  pastor  a further  change  within 
a short  period,  without  inflicting  dishonor  or  injustice. 

2.  “At  certain  fixed  intervals  it  removes  the  pastor 
with  whom  the  people  have  liecome  acquainted,  and 
substitutes  a stranger  in  his  place.”  In  return,  it  af- 
fords each  church  the  benefit  of  the  varied  endowments 
of  many  ministers,  and,  moreover,  keeps  ministers  and 
people  in  vigorous  action. 

3.  “ Societies  and  congregations  have  less  cohesive 
force  than  their  own  good  demands.”  This,  of  all  objec- 
tions, has  been  the  one  most  frequently  urged,  and  is, 
perhaps,  the  only  one  that  it  is  hard  to  deny.  It  is  with 
a view  to  obviate,  this  evil  that  many  have  advocated 
an  extension  of  the  term  of  service  to  five  or  more  years. 


4.  “ The  change  sometimes  comes  inopportunely.”  If 
this  happen  in  some  instances,  and  they  can,  after  all,  be 
but  few,  much  greater  are  the  advantages  which  arise 
from  this  system,  as  it  never  leaves  a church  without  a 
pastor,  and  at  the  same  time  also  secures  to  the  minister 
a pastorate,  so  long  as  he  is  able  to  work  effectively  in 
the  Gospel  field.  The  greatest  problem  for  other  de- 
nominations to  solve  is  “ unemployed  ministers.”  Thus 
a writer  in  the  Intelligencer , speaking  of  the  trials  re- 
sulting from  a want  of  an  itinerant  ministry  in  the  lie- 
formed  (Dutch)  Church,  says  of  Methodism  : “No  man 
who  can  work,  and  wants  to  work,  need  be  idle,  with 
fields  appointed  and  the  Church’s  benedictions  upon 
those  who  strive  to  till  them,  and  no  man  is  laid  upon 
the  shelf  till  age,  infirmity,  or  misconduct  places  him 
there  ; while,  when  age  and  infirmity  come,  that  Church 
still  supports  and  cherishes  those  who  have  worn  life 
out  in  her  and  the  Master's  work.  That  a Church  thus 
served  with  the  whole  life-long  energies  of  her  ministry 
should  thrive  and  grow  under  the  divine  blessing,  need 
surprise  no  one  who  properly  weighs  the  bearings  of 
cause  and  effect.  The  ruling  out  by  our  churches  of 
half  the  aggregate  effective  force  of  the  ministry,  which 
a growing  fastidiousness  in  the  matter  of  choosing  and 
settling  preachers  causes  to  be  practically  lost  to  the 
Chinch,  has  a gloomy  look  for  her  future  prosperity. 
The  prospect  of  such  a life-voyage  is  not  apt  to  be  spe- 
cially attractive  to  youth  pondering  whether  or  not  to 
embark;  for,  once  embarked,  unless  it  be  a Methodist 
vessel  that  bears  them,  they  may  find  themselves  strand- 
ed high  and  dry,  and  that  from  no  faidt  of  theirs,  ere  the 
voyage  is  half  run.” 

5.  “The  brief  pastorates  are  liable  to  create  an  unwise 
love  of  novelty  and  excitement.”  This,  if  somewhat 
true,  is  not  a very  formidable  objection ; while,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  evil  of  indifference  and  dissatisfaction, 
so  liable  to  be  produced  by  a long  pastoral  term,  is  far 
greater.  The  brief  pastorates  afford  the  minister  time 
and  mental  force  for  the  preparation  of  a comparatively 
small  number  of  sermons,  and  are  therefore  favorable  to 
thorough  preparation  for  the  pulpit.  Says  Dr.  Isaac  Tay- 
lor ( Wesley  and  Methodism,  Lond.  1851),  “Any  one  who, 
endowed  with  some  natural  faculty  and  fluency  of  ut- 
terance, has  made  the  experiment,  will  have  found  it  far 
from  difficult  to  acquire  the  power  of  continuous  and 
pertinent  speaking  upon  familiar  topics,  especially  upon 
religious  topics,  and  so  to  hold  out  for  thirty  or  forty 
minutes  or  more;  and  if  this  habit  of  speaking  be  well 
husbanded,  and  kept  always  within  the  safe  enclosures 
of  conventional  phrases,  and  of  authenticated  modes  of 
thinking,  this  preacher  may  be  always  ready  to  ascend 
the  pulpit,  in  season  and  out  of  season.  His  sermon,  or 
his  set  of  discourses,  is,  in  fact,  the  glib  run  of  the  men- 
tal associations  upon  worn  tracks,  this  way  or  that,  as 
the  mind  may  chance  to  take  its  start  from  a given  text. 
This  sort  of  mindless  facility  of  speaking  proves  a sore 
temptation  to  many  a located  minister,  and  its  conse- 
quence is  to  leave  many  a congregation  sitting  from 
year  to  year  deep  in  a quagmire.  Better  than  this,  un- 
doubtedly, would  be  itinerancy — far  better  is  a frequent 
shifting  of  monotonies  than  a fixedness  of  the  same.” 

But  also  to  the  “itinerant”  himself  the  system  affords 
many  advantages,  though,  it  is  true.it  also  subjects  him 
to  some  disadvantages.  The  pros  and  cons  of  this  part 
of  the  question  are  these: 

1.  “ It  restricts  him  in  the  choice  of  his  field  of  labor.” 
But  if  this  be  a disadvantage,  it  is  fully  atoned  for  by 
the  fact  that,  however  restricted,  the  field  is  certain. 

2.  “It  tends  in  some  cases  to  lessen  the  amount  paid 
for  the  support  of  the  pastor.”  If  this  be  true,  it  can  be 
so  only  measurably,  for  of  late,  at  least,  the  Methodist 
pastor  is  remunerated  as  well  as  his  brethren  in  the  sis- 
ter churches,  while  the  itinerancy  affords  him  a greater 
degree  of  independence,  enabling  him  to  “ speak  boldly, 
as  he  ought  to  speak.” 

3.  “It  deprives  the  minister  and  his  family  of  a per- 
manent place  of  residence.”  This  the  more  prolonged 


714 


ITURiEA 


1TTAIIKAZIX 

stay  has  measurably  remedied, but  it  is  a question  wheth- 
er a still  longer  term  would  not  deprive  the  itinerant  of 
one  of  the  greatest  blessings,  health.  It  is  held  by  com- 
petent judges,  and  the  point  is  also  made  by  Dr.  Crane, 
that  the  itinerancy  is  conducive  to  health  and  long  life, 
as  the  vital  forces  of  a pastor  settled  over  a congrega- 
tion for  many  years  in  succession  are  necessarily  sub- 
jected to  a fearful  strain,  and  thus  what  appears  at  first 
a family  deprivation  turns  out  really  to  be  a great  bless- 
ing to  the  entire  household.  See,  besides  the  articles 
and  books  already  referred  to,  Hodgson,  Eccles.  Polity  of 
Methodism  defended,  especially  p.  95-118;  Porter,  Com- 
pendium of  Methodism. 

It'tah-ka'zin  (Heb.  Eth-katsin ',  ’pSjS  ^me 
[according  to  Fiirst,  people]  of  the  judge,  only  with 
H local,  *|"^p  nnp  ; Sept,  ini  iruXiv  uaaiy  v.  r.  ic  a ra- 
ff ty  ; Vulg.  Tkacasin),  a city  near  the  eastern  boundary 
of  Zebulun  (but  within  Issachar),  between  Gath-hepher 
and  Remmon-methoar  (Josh,  xix,  13),  therefore  a very 
short  distance  (east)  from  Sepphoris  (Seffurieh).  It  is, 
perhaps,  identical  with  the  Kefr  Kenna  usually  regard- 
ed as  the  site  of  Cana  (q.  v.)  of  the  N.  T. 

It'ta'i  (Ileb.  Ittay',  '’PIS!,  perh.  near  or  timely,  other- 
wise possessor ),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  (Sept.'EffS’m.)  Son  of  Ribai,  a Benjamite  of  Gib- 
eah,  one  of  David's  thirty  heroes  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  29),  call- 
ed in  the  parallel  passage  (1  Chron.  xi,  31)  Ithai  (Heb. 
Jthay',  a fuller  form ; Sept.  ’H3uu).  B.C.  1046. 

2.  (Sept.  ’EQt  [and  so  Josephus]  v.  r.  'E 96si).  “ It- 

tai the  Gtttite,”  i.  e.  the  native  of  Gath,  a Philistine 
in  the  army  of  king  David.  He  appears  only  during 
the  rebellion  of  Absalom,  B.C.  cir.  1023.  We  first  dis- 
cern him  on  the  morning  of  David’s  flight,  while  the 
king  was  standing  under  the  olive-tree,  below  the  city, 
Watching  the  army  and  the  people  defile  past  him.  See 
David.  Last  in  the  procession  came  the  GOO  heroes 
who  had  formed  David’s  band  during  his  wanderings  in 
Judah,  and  who  had  been  with  him  at  Gath  (2  Sam.  xv, 
13;  comp.  1 Sam.  xxiii,  13;  xxvii,  2;  xxx,  9,  10;  and 
Josephus,  A nt.  vii,  9.  2).  Among  these,  apparently  com- 
manding them,  was  Ittai  the  Gittite  (v.  19).  He  caught 
the  eye  of  the  king,  who  at  once  addressed  him,  and  be- 
sought him  as  “ a stranger  and  an  exile,”  and  as  one 
who  had  but  very  recently  joined  his  service,  not  to  at- 
tach himself  to  a doubtful  cause, but  to  return  “with  his 
brethren”  and  abide  with  the  king  (v.  19,20).  But  Ittai 
is  firm;  he  is  the  king’s  slave  (“12",  A. V.  “servant”), 
and  wherever  his  master  goes  he  will  go.  Accordingly, 
he  is  allowed  by  David  to  proceed,  and  he  passes  over 
the  Kedron  with  the  king  (xv,  22,  Sept.),  with  all  his 
men,  and  “all  the  little  ones  that  were  with  him.” 
These  “little  ones”  (?^ij"?2,  “all  the  children”)  must 
have  been  the  families  of  the  band — their  “ households” 
(1  Sam.  xxvii,  3).  They  accompanied  them  during 
their  wanderings  in  Judah,  often  at  great  risk  (1  Sam. 
xxx,  6j,  and  they  were  not  likely  to  leave  them  behind 
in  this  fresh  commencement  of  their  wandering  life. 

When  the  army  was  numbered  and  organized  by  Da- 
vid at  Mahanaim,  Ittai  again  appears,  now  in  command 
of  a third  part  of  the  force,  and  (for  the  time  at  least) 
enjoying  equal  rank  with  Joab  and  Abishai  (2  Sam. 
xviii,  2, 3, 12).  But  hero,  on  the  eve  of  the  great  bat- 
tle, jve  take  leave  of  this  valiant  and  faithful  stranger; 
his  conduct  in  the  fight  and  his  subsequent  fate  are 
alike  unknown  to  us.  Nor  is  he  mentioned  in  the  lists 
of  David’s  captains  and  of  the  heroes  ofliis  body-guard 
(see  2 Sam.  xxiii ; 1 Chron.  xi  j,  lists  which  are  possibly 
of  a date  previous  to  Ittai’s  arrival  in  Jerusalem. 

An  interesting  tradition  is  related  by  Jerome  ( Qucest . 
I lehr,  on  1 Chron.  xx,  2).  “David  took  the  crown  off 
the  head  of  the  image  of  Milcom  (A. V. ‘their  king’). 
But,  by  the  law,  it  was  forbidden  to  any  Israelite  to 
touch  either  gold  or  silver  of  an  idol.  Wherefore  they 
say  that  Ittai  the  Gittite,  who  had  come  to  David  from 


the  Philistines,  -was  the  man  who  snatched  the  crown 
from  the  head  of  Milcom ; for  it  was  lawful  for  a He- 
brew to  take  it  from  the  hand  of  a man,  though  not  from 
the  head  of  the  idol.”  The  main  difficulty  to  the  recep- 
tion of  this  legend  lies  in  the  fact  that  if  Ittai  was  en- 
gaged in  the  Ammonitish  war,  which  happened  several 
years  before  Absalom’s  revolt,  the  expression  of  David 
(2  Sam.  xv,  20),  “ thou  earnest  but  yesterday,”  loses  its 
force.  However,  these  wrords  may  be  merely  a strong 
metaphor. 

Prom  the  expression  “thy  brethren”  (xv,  20)  we  may 
infer  that  there  were  other  Philistines  besides  Ittai  in 
the  six  hundred;  but  this  is  uncertain.  Ittai  was  not 
exclusively  a Philistine  name,  nor  does  “ Gittite” — as 
in  the  case  of  Obed-edom,  who  was  a Levite — necessa- 
rily imply  Philistine  parentage.  Still  David’s  words, 
“ stranger  and  exile,”  seem  to  show  that  he  was  not  an 
Israelite. — Smith.  Others,  however,  have  hazarded  the 
supposition  that  this  Ittai  is  the  same  as  the  preceding, 
having  been  called  a Gittite  as  a native  of  Gittaim,  in 
Benjamin  (2  Sam.  iv,  3),  and  a “stranger  and  an  exile” 
as  a Gibeonite,  who,  having  fled  from  Beeroth,  a Gibe- 
onitish  town  (Josh,  ix,  17),  had,  with  his  brethren,  taken 
up  his  residence  in  Gittaim.  All  this  is  very  improba- 
ble. See  Gittite. 

Ittig,  Thomas,  a German  Lutheran  divine,  was  born 
at  Leipzig  Oct. 31, 1643.  He  studied  at  the  universities 
of  Leipzig,  Rostock,  and  Strasburg.  After  filling  the 
pastorate,  he  became,  in  1698,  professor  of  philosophy  in 
the  university  of  his  native  eity.  In  1691  he  was  trans- 
ferred to  the  chair  of  theology.  He  died  April  7, 1710. 
Ittig  was  a very  aTjle  man,  but  he  lacked  all  tolerance 
towards  those  who  chose  to  differ  from  him,  and  in  some 
of  his  writings  he  is  quite  severe  against  other  religious 
bodies  than  Lutherans.  lie  is  especially  celebrated  as 
a collector  of  the  writings  of  the  apostolical  fathers  (see 
below).  His  principal  works  are,  Animadvcrsiones  in 
censitram  facu/tatis  theoloyicce  Parisiensis,  etc.  (Leipzig, 
1685, 4to)  : — Be  Ileresiarcliis  cevi  apostoliei  et  apostolico 
proximi  (Leipz.  1690  and  1703, 4to)  : — Proleyomena  ad 
Flavii  Josephi  opera  Gra;co-Latina  (Cologne,  1691 . fol.) : 
— Bibliotheca  Patrnm  cijwstolieorum  Gneco- Latina,  etc. 
(Leipz.  1699,  2 vols. 8vo)  (above  al’uded  to): — Openm 
Clementis  Alexandrini  Supplementum,  ete.  (Leipz.  1700, 
8vo)  : — Exercitativnum  Theoloyicarum  rarii  aryvmenti, 
etc.  Accedunt  dues  orationes  inanyurales,  etc.  (Leipzig, 
1702) : — Exercitatio  theoloyica  de  novis fanaticorum  quo- 
rnndam  nostree  evtatis  pnryatoriis  (Lpz.  1703,  4to) : — Be 
Synodi  Carentonensis  a reformatis  in  Gallia  tcclesiis 
a?mo  1631  celebrates,  indulgentia  erya  Lutheranos , etc., 
Dissert atio  theoloyica.  A ccedunt  quatuor  Proyrammata 
(Lpz.  1705,  4to)  : — I list  or  iu  Synodorvm  nationedium  a 
refonnatis  in  Gallia  hubitarum,  etc.  (Lpz.  1705): — Be 
Bibliothecis  et  Catenis  Patrnm,  etc.  (Lpz.  1707,  8vo)  : — 
Histories  ecclesiastics  primi  a Christo  nato  seeculi  selects 
Capita  de  scriptoribus  et  scriptis  ecclesiasticis,  etc.  (Lpz. 
1709, 4to): — Schediasma  de  autoribus  guide  scrij>toribus 
ecclesiasticis  eyernnt  (Lpz.  1711, 8vo) : — Ilistoria  Concilii 
Xiceeni  (Leipz.  1712,  4to) : — Opuscula  varia,  edita  enra 
Christiani  Ludovici  (Leipz.  1714,  8vo).  See  Kern,  Be 
Vita,  Obitu , Scriptisquc  Th.  Ittiyii  epistolica  Dissert  atio 
(Lpz.  1710)  ; .1  eta  Eruditornm  Lipsiensia,  p.  221 ; Nice- 
ron,  Me  moires,  xxix,  241-252  ; Sax,  Onomast.  IAterar.  v, 
392 ; Appendix,  vi,  585;  Ersch.  u.  Gruber,  A lly.  Encylc. ; 
J.  Fabricius,  1 list.  Bibliotheca ?,  v,  140,  141, 302, 303, 310; 
vi,  456  ; Iloefcr,  Naur.  Bioy.  Gcnerale,  xxvi,  106 ; Fuhr- 
mann,  Ilandworterbucli  el.  Kirchniyeschichte,  ii,  515. 

Xturas'a  (’Iroi'pnio),  a small  district  in  the  N.E.  of 
Palestine,  forming  the  tetrarchy  of  Philip,  in  connection 
with  the  adjacent  territory  of  Trachonitis  (Luke  iii,  1). 
The  name  is  supposed  to  have  originated  with 
Itur,  or  Jeter,  one  of  Ishmael’s  sons  (1  Chron.  i,  31).  In 
1 Chron.  v,  19,  this  name  is  given  as  that  of  a tribe  or 
nation  with  which  Reuben  (beyond  the  Jordan)  warred ; 
and,  from  its  being  joined  with  the  names  of  other  of 
Ishmael’s  sons,  it  is  evident  that  a tribe  descended  from 


ITURiEA 


715 


IYAH 


his  son  Jetui  is  intimated.  In  the  latter  text  the  Sept, 
takes  this  view,  and  for  “ with  the  Hagarites,  with  Jetur, 
and  Nephish,  and  Nodab,”  reads  “with  the  Hagarites, 
and  Ituncans,  and  Nephisteans,  and  Nadaba;ans.”  The 
old  name  seems  to  be  still  preserved  in  that  of  Jedur, 
which  the  same  region,  or  a part  of  it,  now  bears.  (This, 
however,  has  lately  been  disputed  by  Wetzstein  [Reise- 
bericht,  p.  88  sq.]  on  the  precarious  ground  of  the  pres- 
ent dependent  situation  of  the  district.)  We  may  thus 
take  the  district  to  have  been  occupied  by  Ishmael’s  son, 
whose  descendants  were  dispossessed  or  subdued  by  the 
Amorites,  under  whom  it  is  supposed  to  have  formed 
part  of  the  kingdom  of  Bashan,  and  subsequently  to  have 
belonged  to  that  half  tribe  of  Manasseli  which  had  its 
possessions  east  of  the  Jordan.  From  1 Chron.  v,  19,  it 
appears  that  the  sons  of  Jetur,  whether  under  tribute  to 
the  Amorites  (as  some  suppose),  and  forming  part  of  the 
kingdom  of  Bashan  or  not,  were  in  actual  occupation  of 
the  country,  and  were  dispossessed  by  the  tribes  beyond 
the  Jordan,  who  now  conquered  and  colonized  the  little 
province  of  Jetur,  which  lay  between  Bashan  and  Mount 
Ilermon  (“  in  Libano  monte”  according  to  Muratori, 
Thes.  Inscript,  ii,  G70).  During  the  Exile  this  and  oth- 
er border  countries  were  taken  possession  of  by  various 
tribes,  whom,  although  they  are  called  after  the  original 
liames,  as  occupants  of  the  countries  which  had  received 
those  names,  we  are  not  bound  to  regard  as  purely  de- 
scendants of  the  original  possessors.  These  new  It  unc- 
ans were  eventually  subdued  by  king  Aristobulus  (B.C. 
106),  who  reconquered  the  province,  then  called  by  its 
Greek  name  Iturtea,  and  gave  the  inhabitants  their 
choice  of  Judaism  or  banishment  (Joseph.  Ant.  xiii,  11, 
3).  While  some  submitted,  many  retired  to  their  own 
rocky  fastnesses,  and  to  the  defiles  of  Ilermon  adjoining. 
Nevertheless,  the  Iturteans  were  still  recognisable  as  a 
distinct  people  in  the  time  of  Pliny  (Hist.  Nat.  v,  23). 
They  extended  their  incursions  as  far  as  Phoenicia,  but 
submitted  to  the  Romans  under  Pompey  (Appian,  Mith- 
rid.  106),  and  appear  to  have  been  allowed  to  retain  their 
native  princes  as  vassals.  Itimea  was  first  formally  an- 
nexed to  the  province  of  Syria  by  Claudius  (Tacitus, 
Ann.  xii,  23, 1 ; Dio  Cassius,  lix,  12),  having  been  previ- 
ously included  in  Peraea  as  part  of  the  dominions  of  Her- 
od. (See  F.  Miinter,  De  rebus  Itui'ceoi'um  [Hav.  1824]). 
As  already  intimated,  Herod  the  Great,  in  dividing  his 
dominions  among  his  sons,  bequeathed  Itunea  to  Philip 
as  part  of  a tetrarchy  composed,  according  to  Luke,  of 
Trachonitis  and  Itunea ; and  as  Josephus  (.4  nt.  xv,  10, 1 ; 
comp,  xvii,  8,  1)  mentions  his  territory  as  composed  of 
Auranitis,  Trachonitis,  and  Batamca,  some  have  thought 
(Reland,  p.  106;  Liglitfoot,  Ilor.  lhb.)  that  the  evange- 
list regarded  Auranitis  and  Paneas  as  comprehended 
under  Itunea,  a name  loosely  applied  by  ancient  writers 
(see  Pliny,  v,  19;  Epiphan.  Hcnres.  19;  comp.  Panins, 
Comment,  i,  311 ; Wetstein,  i,  671).  But  it  properly 
denoted  a well-defined  region  distinct  from  Auranitis. 
Pliny  rightly  places  it  north  of  Bashan  and  near  Da- 
mascus (v.  23),  and  J.de  Vitry  describes  it  as  adjoining 
Trachonitis,  and  lying  along  the  base  of  Libanus,  be- 
tween Tiberias  and  Damascus  ( Gestu  Dei,  p.  1074 ; comp, 
p.  771,  1003).  The  districts  mentioned  by  Luke  and 
Josephus  were  distinct,  but  neither  of  these  historians 
give  a full  list  of  all  the  little  provinces  in  the  tetrar- 
chy of  Philip.  Each  probably  gave  the  names  of  such 
as  were  of  most  importance  in  connection  with  the 
events  he  was  about  to  relate.  Both  Batamea  and  An- 
ranitis  appear  to  have  been  included  in  the  “ region  of 
Trachonitis”  (Tpaxmvirilog  ywoo) ; and  as  Josephus 
mentions  a part  of  the  “house  of  Zcnodorus”  which  was 
given  to  Philip,  it  unquestionably  embraced  Burma  (/I  nt. 
xv,  10, 3).  According  to  Strabo  (xvi,  755  sq.),  the  coun- 
try known  to  classical  writers  was  hilly  (comp.  Jac.  de 
Yitriaco,  p.  1074),  with  many  ravines  and  hollows;  the 
inhabitants  were  regarded  as  the  worst  of  barbarians 
(Cicero,  Philip,  ii,  14),  who,  being  deprived  of  the  re- 
sources of  agriculture  (Apul.  Florid,  i,  6),  lived  by  rob- 
bery (Strabo,  xvi,  756),  being  skilful  archers  (Virgil, 


Georg,  ii,  448 ; Lucan,  vii,  230,  514).  The  present  Jedur 
probably  comprehends  the  whole  or  greater  part  of  the 
proper  Burma.  This  is  described  by  Burckhardt  (Syria, 
p.  286)  as  “lying  south  of  Jcbelkessoue,  east  of  Jebel  es- 
Sheik  (Mount  1 Iermon),  and  w'est  of  the  Haj  road.”  It 
is  bounded  on  the  east  by  Trachonitis,  on  the  south  by 
Gaulanitis,  on  the  west  by  Ilermon,  and  on  the  north  by 
the  plain  of  Damascus.  It  is  table-land,  with  an  undu- 
lating surface,  ami  has  little  conical  and  cup-shaped 
hills  at  intervals.  The  southern  section  of  it  has  a rich 
soil,  well  watered  by  numerous  springs,  and  streams  from 
Ilermon.  The  greater  part  of  the  northern  section  is 
entirely  different.  The  surface  of  the  ground  is  cover- 
ed with  jagged  rocks,  in  some  places  heaped  up  in  huge 
piles, in  others  sunk  into  deep  pits;  at  one  place  smooth 
and  naked,  at  another  seamed  with  yawning  chasms,  in 
whose  rugged  edges  rank  grass  and  weeds  spring  up. 
The  rock  is  all  basalt,  and  the  formation  similar  to  that 
of  the  Lejah.  See  Akgob.  The  molten  lava  seems  to 
have  issued  from  the  earth  through  innumerable  pores, 

1 to  have  spread  over  the  plain,  and  then  to  have  been 
rent  and  shattered  while  cooling  (Porter,  Handbook,  p. 
465).  Jedur  contains  thirty-eight  towns  and  villages, 
ten  of  which  are  now  entirely  desolate,  and  all  the  rest 
contain  only  a few  families  of  poor  peasants,  living  in 
wretched  hovels  amid  heaps  of  ruins  (Porter,  Damascus, 
ii,  272  sq.).  See  Robinson,  Bib.  Res.  Appendix,  p.  149 ; 
Jour.  Sac.  Lit.  July,  1854,  p.31 1. 

Itzchaki,  also  called  Ben-Jasus,  and  by  the  long 
Arabic  name  of  A hi  Ibrah  im  Isaac  Ibn-Kastar  (or  Salc- 
tar)  ben-Jasus,  a Jewish  philosopher  of  great  celebrity, 
and  commentator,  was  born  A.D.  982  at  Toledo.  Like 
many  other  Jewish  savans,  he  followed  the  medical  pro- 
fession, and  so  distinguished  himself  that  he  w as  ap- 
pointed physician  to  the  princes  of  Denia  and  Mug’aliid, 
and  to  Ali  Ikbal  Addaula.  He  died  in  1057.  Itzchaki 
vrrote  (I)  a Hebrew  grammar,  called  "ISO, 

The  Book  of  Syntax;  and  (2)  on  Biblical  criticism, 
called  "S3,  The  Work  of  Itzchaki.  Neither  of 

these  works  is  now  known  to  us,  but  from  Aben-Ezra, 
w ho  quotes  them,  we  learn  that  Itzchaki  -was  one  of  the 
earliest  assailants  of  the  Mosaic  authorship  of  some  por- 
tions of  the  Pentateuch.  Thus  he  is  said  to  have  main- 
tained that  the  portion  in  the  Pentateuch  which  describes 
the  kings  of  Idumaea  (Gen.  xxxvi,  30,  etc.)  wras  written 
many  centuries  after  Moses  (eomp.  Aben-Ezra,  Commen- 
taries on  Gen.  xxxvi,  30,  31 ; Numb,  xxiv,  17 ; IIos.  i,  1). 

, See  Gratz,  Geschichte  der  Juden,x\,  53;  Zeitschrift  der 
deutsch.  morgenl.  Gesellsch.  1854,  p.  551 ; 1855,  p.  838. 

Itzchaki,  Solomon.  See  Rasul 

I'vah  (Heb.  IvvalT,  n?“,  for  n^Z.*,  avralT,  an  over- 
turning or  ruin,  as  in  Ezek.  xxi,  32 ; Sept.  ‘Aova,  but  in 
Isa.  xxxvii,  13,  unites  with  the  preced.  w'ord  into  ’Ava- 
eyyovyav  a),  a city  of  the  Assyrians  whence  they  brought 
colonists  to  repeople  Samaria  (2  Kings  xviii,  34 ; xix, 
13 ; Isa.  xxxvii,  13,  where  it  is  mentioned  in  connection 
with  Hena  and  Sepharvaim;  also  in  the  cognate  form 
“Ava,”  2 Kings  xvii,  24,  where  it  stands  in  connection 
1 with  Babylon  and  Cuthali).  Sir  II.  Rawlinson  thinks 
that  the  site  must  be  sought  in  Babylonia,  and  that  it  is 
probably  identical  with  the  modern  Hit,  w'hich  is  theMg 
of  Herodotus  (i,  179),  a place  famous  for  bituminous 
springs  (see  Rich,  First  Memoir  on  Babylon,  p.  64,  and 
Chesney,  Euphrates  Expedition,  i,  55).  This  town  lay 
on  the  Euphrates,  between  Sippara  (Sepharvaim)  and 
Anah  (Hena),  with  which  it  seems  to  have  been  politi- 
cally united  shortly  before  the  time  of  Sennacherib  (2 
Kings  xix,  13).  He  also  regards  it  as  probably  the 
Ah  ava  (Et'HX)  of  Ezra  (viii,  15).  He  believes  the 
name  to  have  been  originally  derived  from  that  of  a 
Babylonian  god,  Ira , who  represents  the  sky  or  .Ether, 
and  to  whom  the  town  is  supposed  to  have  been  dedi- 
cated (Rawlinson,  Herodotus,  1,  606,  note).  In  the  Tal- 
mud the  name  appears  as  Ihih  (X'rr),  whence  might 


IVORY 


716 


IVES 

possibly  be  formed  the  Greek  "Ic,  and  the  modern  / lit 
(where  the  t is  merely  the  feminine  ending),  if  we  might 
suppose  anv  connection  between  the  Greek  and  the  Tal- 
mud. Isidore  of  Charax  seems  to  intend  the  same  place 
by  his  'Ati-iroXig  {Mans.  Parth.  p.  5).  Some  have 
thought  that  it  occurs  as  1st  in  the  Egyptian  inscrip- 
tions of  the  time  of  Thothmes  III,  about  B.C.  1450 
(Birch,  in  Otia  /Egyptiaca,  p.80).  But  these  conject- 
ures are  destitute  of  any  great  probability,  as  the  form 
of  the  Ileb.  name  does  not  well  correspond.  See  Ava. 

Ives,  Levi  Sillijian,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  a theologian  of 
some  note,  more  especially  on  account  of  his  defection 
from  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church  to  Eonianism, 
was  born  in  Meriden,  Conn.,  Sept.  16, 1797.  His  parents 
removed  to  New  York  State  while  he  was  quite  young, 
and  he  was  prepared  for  college  at  Lewisville  Academy. 
At.  tha.outbreak  of  the  war  in  1812,  he  served  his  coun- 
trv  for  one  year,  and  in  1816  finally  entered  upon  his 
collegiate  course  at  Hamilton  College,  pursuing,  at  the 
same  time,  studies  preparatory  for  the  work  of  the  min- 
istry. He  had  been  reared  in  the  Presbyterian  Church, 
but  in  1819,  when  impaired  health  obliged  him  to  quit 
the  college,  he  joined  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church, 
and  continued  his  theological  education  at  N.  Y.  City 
under  bishop  Hobart,  at  whose  hands  he  received  dea- 
con’s orders  in  1822,  and  whose  son-in-law  he  became  in 
1825.  Ilis  first  parish  was  Batavia,  N.  Y. ; but  he  re- 
mained there  only  a few  months,  as  he  received  a call 
in  1823  from  Trinity  Church,  Philadelphia,  which  he  at 
once  accepted,  bishop  White  ordaining  him  to  the  priest- 
hood. In  1827  he  was  called  to  Christ  Church,  Lancas- 
ter, Pa.,  and  the  year  following  became  assistant  rector 
of  Christ  Church,  N.  Y.  City.  This  connection  he  sev- 
ered six  months  later,  to  assume  the  rectorship  of  St. 
Luke’s  Church,  N.  Y.  In  1831  he  was  honored  with  the 
bishopric  of  North  Carolina,  where  he  became  very  pop- 
ular, and  for  a time  wielded  great  influence;  but  in  1848 
he  began  to  advocate  doctrines  inadmissible  by  any 
Protestant  believer  of  the  Christian  doctrines,  and  dis- 
trust and  alienation  on  the  part  of  his  diocese  led  him 
to  renounce  publicly  his  mistaken  course.  But  so  in- 
clined had  he  become  to  the  Roman  Catholic  view  of 
the  apostolical  succession,  and  the  need  of  an  “infallible” 
interpreter  of  the  Scriptures,  that  he  soon  avowed  his 
former  opinions,  and  in  1852,  while  in  Europe,  publicly 
submitted  to  the  authority  of  Rome.  Of  course,  this 
caused  his  deposition  from  the  bishopric  of  N.  Carolina. 
In  defense  of  his  course,  he  published  The  Trials  of  a 
Mind  in  its  Progress  to  Catholicism  (Boston,  1854,  8vo), 
in  which  he  sets  forth  the  Roman  Catholic  view  of  the 
divine  right  of  episcopacy.  Finding  that  the  Protestant 
Epis.  Church  does  not  possess  a regular  apostolical  suc- 
cession (p.  146-157),  he  felt  obliged  to  accept  the  Church 
of  Rome  as  the  true  Church.  This  course  was  very 
naturally  pursued  by  bishop  Ives,  who,  while  yet  in  the 
Episcopal  Church,  had  always  inclined  to  lligh-Chnrch- 
ism.  “Sitting  upon  the  pinnacle  of  lligh-Chnrchism, 
the  head  easily  turns,  or  becomes  so  dizzy  as  to  fall 
down  into  the  abyss  of  Popery.”  Ives  fell,  line  Doane, 
and  Wheaton,  and  Markoe,  by  carrying  out  the  High- 
Church  principles  to  their  legitimate  results.  After 
his  change  he  was  employed  as  professor  of  rhetoric  in 
St.  Joseph’s  Theological  Seminar}',  and  as  lecturer  on 
rhetoric  and  English  literature  in  the  convents  of  the 
Sacred  Heart  and  the  Sisters  of  Charity.  Ex-bishop 
Ives  evidently  was  a man  of  good  parts  and  noble  in- 
tentions, for  during  the  last  years  of  his  life  we  find  him 
incessantly  at  work  in  the  establishment  of  an  institu- 
tion at  Manhattanville  for  the  protection  of  destitute 
children : here  nearly  2000  children  are  now  provided 
for.  He  died  Oct.  13, 1867.  Ives  published  also  a vol- 
nme  of  sermons  On  the  A postles ’ Doctrine  and  Fellow- 
ship, and  another  On  Obedience  o f Faith  (1849, 18mo). 
See  New  Englander,  Aug.  1855,  art',  iv  ; Princeton  Ileriew, 
xvii,  491  (on  his  sermons);  Appleton,  A merican  Cyclop. 
annual  of  1867, 411  sq. ; Allibone,  Dictionary  of  Authors, 
b 945.  (J.II.W.) 


Ivimey,  Joseph,  the  historian  of  the  English  Bap- 
tists, was  born  in  1773,  pursued  his  studies  at  the  Bristol 
Academy,  and  for  twenty-nine  years  was  pastor  of  a 
Baptist  church  in  London.  His  principal  publications 
are,  (1)  an  edition  of  The  Pilgrim's  Progress,  with  Notes: 
— (2)  The  Life  of  John  Bunyan : — (3)  Treatise  on  Bap- 
tism and  Communion: — (4)  The  Life,  Times,  and  Opin- 
ions of  John  Milton : — (5)  History  of  the  English  Bap- 
tists (4  vols.  8vo).  The  last,  his  most  important  work, 
is  highly  commended  by  Robert  Hall  for  the  value  of 
its  historical  substance  and  for  the  quality  of  the  au- 
thor’s style.  His  Life  of  Bunyan  continued  to  be  the 
chief  authority  on  the  subject,  until  the  growing  public 
appreciation  of  the  “ ingenious  dreamer”  enlisted  in  the 
illustration  of  his  life  the  classic  pen  of  Southey  and  the 
minute  diligence  of  Mr.  Offor.  Mr.  Ivimey’s  death  oc- 
curred in  1834.  See  G.  Pritchard,  Memoirs  of  the  Life 
and  Writings  of  Joseph  Ivimey  (London,  1835, 8vo). 

Ivo,  bishop  of  Chartres  ( Caniotensis ).  Little  is 
known  of  the  life  of  this  prelate  beyond  what  we  can 
learn  from  his  works.  The  exact  date  of  his  birth  is 
not  ascertained  (it  is  supposed  to  have  been  about  1040), 
neither  is  his  descent : some  say  that  he  was  of  low  ex- 
traction (“  ex  genere  minime  nobili,”  Gallia  Christiana, 
viii,  1 126),  while  others  give  him  a noble  parentage  (“  in 
agro  Bellovaeensi  natns  nobili  a sanguine  nobilem  ani- 
mum  traxit,”  Vita  D.Ivonis,  Paris  ed.  1647).  He  stud- 
ied philosophy  and  rhetoric  at  Paris,  then  theology  un- 
der Lanfranc  in  the  convent  of  Bee ; and  in  1078  became 
superior  of  the  convent  of  St.  Quentin,  in  which  office 
he  acquired  great  reputation  as  a theologian  and  canon- 
ist. In  1090,  upon  the  deposition  of  the  bishop  of  Char- 
tres for  simony,  Ivo  was  appointed  in  his  place,  yet 
his  predecessor  had  still  such  strong  local  interest  that 
Ivo  had  to  be  nominated  directly  by  the  pope  (Urban 
II),  and  was  only  installed  in  1092,  at  Capua.  He  is 
one  of  the  prelates  who  contributed  most  to  the  exten- 
sion of  papal  authority,  yet  he  did  not  hesitate  to  speak 
plainly  against  the  abuse  of  the  system  of  curacy;  in 
the  Paris  edition  of  his  life  he  is  even  praised  as  one  of 
the  defenders  of  the  Gallican  liberties.  In  the  difficulty 
about  the  question  of  investiture  (q.  v.),  raised  by  Hilde- 
brand and  liis  followers,  the  course  of  Ivo  was  market! 
by  great  moderation,  arising,  not  from  weakness,  but 
from  a desire  of  conciliating  and  meting  justice  to  all 
parties.  He  also  endeavored  to  check  the  persecuting 
spirit  of  the  hierarchy  when  it  began  to  accuse  pope 
Paschal  II  of  heresy  for  having  yielded  to  emperor  Hen- 
ry V.  Ilis  private  character,  as  well  as  his  learning, 
gave  him  great  influence.  When  Philip  I repudiated 
his  legitimate  wife  to  marry  another,  lie  alone  had  the 
courage  to  oppose  him,  and  neither  promises  nor  threats 
could  induce  him  to  sanction  the  misdeed;  and  by  his 
noble  and  straightforward  course  he  excited  the  admi- 
ration of  the  people  and  nobility,  who  all  took  his  part. 
He  died  in  1115  (according  to  Richter  and  Mejer,  in 
1125),  and  was  canonized  in  1570  for  May  20.  As  a 
writer,  he  is  known  as  the  author  of  a Pannormia  and 
a decretum  [sec  Canons  and  Decretals,  Collec- 
tions of);  also  of  287  Letters  (Paris,  1584-85,  1610), 
which  shed  much  light  on  the  history  of  his  time,  and 
show  in  how  high  an  estimation  his  opinions  were  held ; 
24  ecclesiastical  discourses  on  synods, festivals,  etc. ; and, 
finally,  a short  chronicle  of  the  French  kings.  The  most 
complete  collection  of  his  works  has  been  published  at 
Paris  in  1647,  fol.,  but  it  does  not  contain  the  Pannor- 
mia.  In  Migne’s  edition  of  the  fathers  Ivo’s  works  were 
reprinted  in  1855  (Paris).  See  Hist.  Lift,  de  France,  x, 
102;  v,  150;  Herzog,  Ileal- Encyklopddie,  vii,  189  sq. ; 
Mosheim,  Eccles.  Hist,  ii,  180  sq. ; Ceillier,  Hist,  des  A ut. 
Bac.  xxi,  423  sq. ; Schrockh,  Kirchengesch,  xvii,  13  sq. ; 
xxvi,  12  sq. 

Ivory  (C',2ln3d,  shenhabbim',  elephant's  tooth  ; see 
A.  Benary,  in  the  Berliner  Lit.  Jahrbiicher,  1831,  No.  96 ; 
1 Kings  x,  22;  2 Chron.  ix,  21;  and  so  explained  by 
the  Targum,  jllj,  an^  Sept.  odovreg  iXt^dvrivoi  > 


IVORY 


717 


IVORY 


also  simply  *jTl5,  a tooth,  Psa.  xlv,  8;  Ezek.  xxvii,  15; 
Amos  vi,  4 ; N.  T.  i\t<t>avrivoQ,  of  ivory,  Rev.  xviii,  12). 
It  is  remarkable  that  no  word  in  Biblical  Hebrew  de- 
notes an  elephant,  unless  the  latter  portion  of  the  com- 
pound shen-habbim  be  supposed  to  have  this  meaning. 
Gesenius  derives  it  from  the  Sanscrit  ibhas , “an  ele- 
phant;” Keil  (on  1 Kings  x,  22)  from  the  Coptic  (hoy; 
while  Sir  Henry  Rawlinson  mentions  a word  kabba, 
which  he  met  with  in  the  Assyrian  inscriptions,  and 
which  he  understands  to  mean  “ the  large  animal,”  the 
term  being  applied  both  to  the  elephant  and  the  camel 
(Joum.  of  As.  Soc.  xii,4G3).  It  is  suggested  in  Gese- 
nius’s  Thesaurus  (s.  v.)  that  the  original  reading  may 
have  been  “ivory,  ebony”  (compare  Ezek. 

xxvii,  15).  By  some  of  the  ancient  nations  these  tusks 
were  imagined  to  be  horns  (Ezek.  xxvii,  15 ; Pliny,  viii, 
4;  xviii,  1),  though  Diodorus  Siculus  (i,  55)  correctly 
calls  them  teeth.  As  they  were  first  acquainted  with 
elephants  through  their  ivory,  which  was  an  important 
article  of  commerce,  the  shape  of  the  tusks,  in  all  prob- 
ability, led  them  into  this  error.  They  are  genuine 
teeth,  combining  in  themselves,  and  occupying,  in  the 
upper  jaw,  the  whole  mass  of  secretions  which  in  other 
animals  form  the  upper  incisor  and  laniary  teeth.  They 
are  useful  for  defence  and  offence,  and  for  holding  down 
green  branches,  or  rooting  up  water-plants;  but  still 
they  are  not  absolutely  necessary,  since  there  is  a varie- 
ty of  elephant  in  the  Indian  forests  entirely  destitute  of 
tusks,  and  the  females  in  most  of  the  races  are  either 
without  them,  or  have  them  very  small;  not  turned 
downwards,  as  Bochart  states,  but  rather  straight,  as 
correctly  described  by  Plinv.  Only  two  species  of  ele- 
phants are  recognised— the  African  and  the  Indian — 
easily  distinguished  from  each  other  by  the  size  of  the 
ear,  which  in  the  former  is  much  larger  than  in  the  lat- 
ter. The  tusks  of  the  African  elephant  attain  some- 
times a length  of  8 or  even  10  feet,  and  a weight  of  100 
to  120  pounds;  but  those  of  the  Indian  elephant  are 
much  shorter  and  lighter,  while  in  the  females  they  of- 
ten scarcely  project  beyond  the  lips.  “ Elephant’s  tooth,” 
or  simply  “ elephant,”  is  a common  name  for  ivory,  not 
only  in  the  Oriental  languages  and  in  Greek,  but  also 
in  the  Western  tongues,  although  in  all  of  them  teeth 
of  other  species  may  be  included.  There  can  be  no 
doubt,  for  example,  that  the  harder  and  more  accessi- 
ble ivory  obtained  from  the  hippopotamus  was  known 
in  Egypt  at  least  as  early  as  that  obtained  from  the  ele- 
phant. This  kind  of  ivory  does  not  split,  and  therefore 
was  anciently  most  useful  for  military  instruments.  See 
Elephant. 

The  Egyptians  at  a very  early  period  made  use  of 
this  material  in  decoration.  The  cover  of  a small  ivory 
box  in  the  Egyptian  collection  at  the  Louvre  is  “ in- 
scribed with  the  pnenomen  Xefer-ka-re,  or  Neper-chc- 
res,  adopted  by  a dynasty  found  in  the  upper  line  of  the 
tablet  of  Abydos,  and  attributed  by  31.  Bunsen  to  the 
fifth.  ...  In  the  time  of  Thotlnnes  III  ivory  was  im- 
ported in  considerable  quantities  into  Egypt,  either  ‘in 
boats  laden  with  ivory  and  ebony’  from  Ethiopia,  or 
else  in  tusks  and  cups  from  the  Ruten-nn.  . . . The  cel- 
ebrated car  at  Florence  has  its  linchpins  tipped  with 
ivory”  (Birch,  in  Trans,  of  Roy.  Soc.  of  Lit.  iii,  2d  se- 
ries). The  specimens  of  Egyptian  ivory  work,  which 
are  found  in  the  principal  museums  of  Europe,  are,  most 
of  them,  in  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Birch,  of  a date  anterior 
to  the  Persian  invasion,  and  some  even  as  old  as  the 
18th  dynasty.  The  practice  of  inlaying  or  covering 
the  walls  with  ivory  and  other  valuable  substances  was 
in  very  extensive  use  among  the  Egyptians,  who  used 
it  likewise  for  ornamenting  articles  of  furniture,  as  may 
be  seen  in  the  British  Museum.  Amongst  the  articles 
of  household  furniture  there  is  a seat  with  four  turned 
legs  inlaid  with  ivory,  brought  from  Thebes;  also  a 
high-backed  chair  on  lion-footed  legs;  the  back  solid, 
inlaid  with  panels  of  darker  wood,  with  lotus  flowers  of 
ivory.  The  ivory  used  by  the  Egyptians  was  princi- 


pally brought  from  Ethiopia  (Herod,  iii,  114),  though 
their  elephants  were  originally  from  Asia.  The  Ethio- 
pians, according  to  Diodorus  Siculus  (i,  55),  brought  to 
Sesostris  “ ebony  and  gold,  and  the  teeth  of  elephants.” 
Among  the  tribute  paid  by  them  to  the  Persian  kings 
were  “ twenty  large  tusks  of  ivory”  (Herod,  iii,  97).  The 
processions  of  human  figures  bearing  presents,  etc.,  still 
extant  on  the  walls  of  palaces  and  tombs,  attest,  by  the 
black,  crisp-haired  bearers  of  huge  teeth,  that  some  of 
these  came  from  Ethiopia  or  Central  Africa;  and  by 
white  men  similarly  laden,  who  also  bring  an  Asiatic 
elephant  and  a white  bear,  that  others  carne  from  the 


Tribute  of  Elephants’  Tusks  brought  to  Thothmes  III. 

(Thebes.) 

East.  In  the  Periplus  of  the  Red  Sea  (c.  4),  attributed 
to  Arrian,  Coloe  ( Calai ) is  said  to  be  “ the  chief  mart  for 
ivory.”  It  was  thence  carried  down  to  Adouli  (Zulla, 
or  Thulla'),  a port  on  the  Red  Sea,  about  three  days’ 
journey  from  Coloe,  together  with  the  hides  of  hippo- 
potami, tortoise-shell,  apes,  and  slaves  (Pliny,  vi,  34). 
The  elephants  and  rhinoceroses  from  which  it  was  ob- 
tained were  killed  further  up  the  country,  and  few  were 
taken  near  the  sea,  or  in  the  neighborhood  of  Adouli. 
At  Ptolemais  Theron  was  found  a little  ivory  like  that 
of  Adouli  (Periplus,  c.  3).  Ptolemy  Philadelphia  made 
this  port  the  depot  of  the  elephant  trade  (Pliny,  vi,  34). 
According  to  Pliny  (viii,  10),  ivory  was  so  plentiful  on 
the  borders  of  Ethiopia  that  the  natives  made  door- 
posts of  it,  and  even  fences  and  stalls  for  their  cattle. 
The  author  of  the  Periplus  (c.  1G)  mentions  Rhapta  as 
another  station  of  the  ivory  trade,  but  the  ivory  brought 
down  to  this  port  is  said  to  have  been  of  an  inferior 
quality,  and  “ for  the  most  part  found  in  the  woods, 
damaged  by  rain,  or  collected  from  animals  drowned  by 
the  overflow  of  the  rivers  at  the  equinoxes”  (Smith,  Diet, 
of  Class.  Geography,  s.  v.  Rhapta).  The  Egyptian  mer- 
chants traded  for  ivory  and  onyx  stones  to  Barvgaza, 
the  port  to  which  was  carried  down  the  commerce  of 
Western  India  from  Ozene  ( Periplus , c.  49). 

The  Assyrians  appear  to  have  carried  on  a great  traf- 
fic in  ivory.  Their  early  conquests  in  India  had  made 
them  familiar  with  it,  and  (according  to  one  rendering 
of  the  passage)  their  artists  supplied  the  luxurious  Tyr- 


Apes,  Elephant,  and  Ivory  as  Tribnte.  (From  the  Nim- 
rud  Obelisk.) 


718 


IXORA 


IVORY 

ians  with  carvings  in  ivory  from  the  isles  of  Chittim 
(Esek.  xxvii,6).  On  the  obelisk  in  the  British  Muse- 
um the  captives  or  tribute-bearers  are  represented  as 
carrying  tusks.  Among  the  merchandise  of  Babylon 
enumerated  in  Rev.  xviii,  12  are  included  “all  manner 
vessels  of  ivory.”  Mr.  Layard  discovered  several  orna- 
ments made  from  ivory  in  the  Assyrian  mounds  (Kine- 
ve7i,  ii,  to),  but  they  are  of  uncertain  date,  and  exhibit 
marks  of  Egyptian  workmanship  (ib.  p.  1G3, 1 G8).  Many 
specimens  of  Assyrian  carving  in  ivory  have  been  found 
in  the  excavations  at  Nimrud,  and  among  the  rest  some 
tablets  “richly  inlaid  with  blue  and  opaque  glass,  lapis- 
lazuli,  etc.”  (Bonomi,  Nineveh  and  its  Palaces,  p.  334 ; 
comp.  Cant,  v,  14).  Part  of  an  ivory  staff,  apparently  a 
sceptre,  and  several  entire  elephants’  tusks,  were  discov- 
ered by  Mr.  Layard  in  the  last  stage  of  decay,  and  it 
was  with  extreme  difficulty  that  these  interesting  relics 
could  be  restored  (.Vis.  and  Bab.  p.  195). 

In  the  early  ages  of  Greece  ivory  was  frequently  em- 
ployed for  purposes  of  ornament.  The  trappings  of 
horses  were  studded  with  it  (Homer,  II.  v,  584):  it  was 
used  for  the  handles  of  keys  ( Odyssey , xxi,  7)  and  for  the 
bosses  of  shields  (lies.  Sc.  Here.  141,  142).  The  “ivory 
house”  of  Ahab  (1  Kings  xxii,  39)  was  probably  a pal- 
ace, the  walls  of  which  were  panelled  with  ivory,  like 
the  palace  of  Menelaus  described  by  Homer  ( Odys . iv, 
73;  compare  Eurip.  Iph.  A ul.  583,  iXe^avrodirot  Sopot. 
Comp,  also  Amos  iii,  15,  and  Psa.  xlv,  8,  unless  the  “ ivo- 
ry palaces”  in  the  latter  passage  were  perfume-boxes 
made  of  that  material,  as  has  been  conjectured).  It  is 
difficult  to  determine  whether  the  “ tower  of  ivory”  of 
Cant,  vii,  4 is  merely  a figure  of  speech,  or  whether  it 
had  its  original  among  the  things  that  were.  Beds  in- 
laid or  veneered  with  ivory  were  in  use  among  the  He- 
brews  (Amos  vi,  4;  compare  Homer,  Od.  xxiii,  200),  as 
also  among  the  Egyptians  (Wilkinson,  A nc.  Eg.  iii,  1G9). 
The  practice  of  inlaying  and  veneering  wood  with  ivory 
and  tortoise-shell  is  described  by  Pliny  (xvi,  84).  By 
the  luxurious  Phoenicians  ivory  was  employed  to  orna- 
ment the  boxwood  rowing-benches  (or  “hatches”  ac- 
cording to  some)  of  their  galleys  (Ezek.  xxvii,  6).  The 
skilled  workmen  of  Hiram,  king  of  Tyre,  fashioned  the 
great  ivory  throne  of  Solomon,  and  overlaid  it  with 
pure  gold  (1  Kings  x,  18;  2 Chron.  ix,  17).  The  ivory 
thus  employed  was  supplied  by  the  caravans  of  Dedan 
(Isa.  xxi,  13;  Ezek.  xxvii,  15),  or  was  brought  from  the 
East  Indies,  with  apes  and  peacocks,  by  the  navy  of 
Tarshish  (1  Kings  x,  22).  As  an  instance  of  the  super- 
abundant possession  and  barbarian  use  of  elephants’ 
teeth  may  be  mentioned  the  octagonal  ivory  hunting- 
tower  built  by  Akbar,  about  twenty-four  miles  west  of 
Agra:  it  is  still  standing,  and  bristles  with  128  enor- 
mous tusks  disposed  in  ascending  lines,  sixteen  on  each 
face.  Mr.  Roberts,  remarking  on  the  words  of  Amos 
(vi,  4),  they  “ that  lie  upon  beds  of  ivory,  and  stretch 
themselves  upon  couches,”  refers  the  last  word,  in  con- 
formity with  the  Tamul  version,  to  swinging  cots,  often 
mentioned  in  the  early  tales  of  India,  and  still  plenti- 
fidly  used  by  the  wealthy.  But  it  docs  not  appear  that 
they  were  known  in  Western  Asia,  or  that  figures  of 
them  occur  on  Egyptian  bas-reliefs.  It  is  more  likely 
that  palkies  (those  luxurious  travelling  litters)  are 
meant,  which  were  borne  on  men’s  shoulders,  while  the 
person  within  was  stretched  at  ease.  They  were  in 
common  use  even  among  the  Romans,  for  Cicero  fell 
into  his  assassin’s  hands  while  he  was  attempting  to  es- 
cape in  one  of  them  towards  Naples.  Among  the  Ro- 
mans, inlaying  with  ivory  seems  to  have  become,  at 
length,  rather  a common  method  of  ornamenting  the 
interiors  of  the  mansions  of  the  wealthy;  for  Horace 
mentions  it  as  an  evidence  of  his  humble  way  of  life 
that  “no  walls  inlaid  with  ivory  adorned  his  house.” 

Ivy  (Kirrobg)  is  mentioned  but  once  in  the  Scrip- 
tures, and  that  in  the  Apocrypha,  namely,  in  2 Mace, 
vi,  7,  where  it  is  said  that  the  Jews  were  compelled, 
when  the  feast  of  Bacchus  was  kept,  to  go  in  procession 
carrying  ivy  to  this  deity,  to  whom  it  is  well  known  this 


plant  was  sacred.  Ivy,  however,  though  not  mentioned 
by  name,  has  a peculiar  interest  to  the  Christian,  as 


forming  the  “corruptible  crown”  (1  Cor.  ix,  25)  for 
which  the  competitors  at  the  great  Isthmian  games 
contended,  and  which  St.  Paul  so  beautifully  contrasts 
with  the  “incorruptible  crown”  that  shall  hereafter 
encircle  the  brows  of  those  who  run  worthily  the  race 
of  this  mortal  life.  In  the  Isthmian  contests  the  vic- 
tor’s garland  was  either  ivy  or  pine.  — Smith.  See 
Crown. 

The  term  kiooc q or  kittvq  seems  to  have  been  applied 
by  the  Greeks  in  a general  sense,  and  to  have  included 
many  plants,  and  among  them  some  climbers,  as  the 
convolvulus,  besides  the  common  ivy  ( Jledera  helix), 
which  was  especially  dedicated  to  Bacchus,  and  which 
was  distinguished  by  the  name  of  “ Iledera  poetica,  Bi- 
onysia  ciut  Bacchica,  quod  ex  ea  poetarum  corona;  con- 
suerentur."  It  is  well  known  that  in  the  Dionysia,  or 
festivals  in  honor  of  Dionysus,  and  in  the  processions 
called  Oiaoot,  with  which  they  were  celebrated,  women 
also  took  part,  in  the  disguise  of  Bacchic,  Naiades, 
Nymplue,  etc.,  adorned  with  garlands  of  ivy,  etc.  (Ovid, 
Fasti,  iii,  76G).  Bacchus  is  generally  thought  to  have 
been  educated  in  India,  and  the  Indian  Biighes  has  been 
supposed  to  be  the  original  of  the  name.  The  fact  of 
Baghes  being  a compound  of  two  words  signifying  tiger 
and  master  or  lord,  would  appear  to  confirm  the  identi- 
ty, since  Bacchus  is  usually  represented  as  drawn  in  his 
chariot  by  a tiger  and  a lion,  and  tigers,  etc.,  are  de- 
scribed as  following  him  in  his  Indian  journey.  As  the 
ivy,  however,  is  not  a plant  of  India,  it  might  be  object- 
ed to  its  being  characteristic  of  an  Indian  god.  But  in 
the  mountains  which  bound  India  to  the  north  both  the 
ivy  and  the  vine  may  be  found,  and  the  Greeks  were 
acquainted  with  the  fact  that  Mount  Mero  is  the  only 
part  of  India  where  ivy  was  produced.  Indeed,  Alexan- 
der and  his  companions  are  said  to  have  crowned  them- 
selves with  ivy  in  honor  of  Bacchus.  The  ivy,  Iledera 
helix,  being  a native  of  most  parts  of  Europe,  is  too  well 
known  to  require  special  notice. — Ivitto.  See  Bacchus. 

Ixora,  a divinity  of  the  East  Indians,  or  the  wor- 
shippers of  Brahm.  They  hold  him  to  be  of  infinite 
endurance,  and  illustrate  this  belief  by  saying  that 
Brahm  himself,  desirous  of  seeing  Ixora’s  head,  ascend- 


IYAR 


719 


J A AHE-OREGIM 


eii  to  heaven  on  wings,  but  failed  to  gain  admittance,  1 
the  power  of  Ixora  preventing  it.  A very  similar  desire 
Vishnu  cherished,  but  all  his  attempts  also  to  this  end 
Ixora  frustrated.  He  is  said  to  have  two  wives,  one  of 
whom  constantly  resides  with  him,  and  conceals  herself 
in  his  hair;  the  other,  strangely  enough,  they  say,  dies 
annually,  and  is  by  Ixora  restored  to  life  again.  The 
Brahmins  represent  this  idol  standing  on  a pedestal, 
with  no  less  than  sixteen  arms,  each  of  them  grasping 
something  of  value,  or  representing  the  natural  ele- 
ments, or  weapons  indicating  his  power.  His  head  is 
adorned  with  long  and  beautiful  hair;  his  face  is  white 
and  shining;  he  has  three  eyes,  and  a crescent  or  half 
moon  upon  his  forehead. — Broughton,  Bibliotheca  Ilist. 
Bac.  i,  561.  See  Braiiminisji. 

Iyar  (“P"X;  ’lap,  Josephus,  A nt.  viii,  3,  I;  the  Ma- 
cedonian ’Aorspiatog')  is  the  late  name  of  that  month 
which  was  the  second  of  the  sacred,  and  the  seventh  of 
the  civil  year  of  the  Jews,  and  which  began  with  the 
new  moon  of  May.  The  few  memorable  days  in  it  are  I 
the  10th,  as  a fast  for  the  death  of  Eli ; the  14th,  as  the  | 
second  or  lesser  Passover  for  those  whom  uncleanness  or 
absence  prevented  from  celebrating  the  feast  in  Nisan 
(Numb,  ix,  1 1) ; the  23d,  as  a feast  instituted  by  Simon 
the  Maccabee  in  memory  of  his  taking  the  citadel  Acra, 
in  Jerusalem  (1  Macc.  xiii,  51,  52);  the  28th,  as  a fast 
for  the  death  of  Samuel.  See  Calendar. 

Gesenius  derives  Iyar  from  the  Hebrew  root  “"X, 
to  shim;  but  Benfey  and  Stern,  following  out  their  the- 
ory of  the  source  from  which  the  Jews  obtained  such 
names,  deduce  it  from  the  assumed  Zend  representative 
of  the  Persian  bahar,  “ spring”  ( Monatsnanien , p.  134). 
The  name  Iyar  does  not  occur  in  the  O.  T.,  this  month 
being  always  described  as  the  second  month,  except  in 
two  places  in  which  it  is  called  Zif  (1  Kings  vi,  1, 37). 
— Ivitto.  See  Zif. 

Iyim.  See  Island  ; Wild  Beast. 

Iz'ehar  (Numb,  iii,  19).  See  Izhar. 

Iz'eharite  (Numb,  iii,  27).  See  Iztiar. 

IzTiar  (lleb.  Yitshar',  “fl-I"1,  oil,  as  often ; Sept. 
’IfTdoap,  Tffaap),  the  second  son  of  Kohath  (son  of  Levi),  j 


and  father  of  three  sons  (Exod.  vi,  18,  21 ; Numb,  xvi, 
1;  1 Chron.  vi,  2,  18,  88;  xxiii,  12,  18).  In  Numb,  iii, 
19,  his  name  is  Anglicized  “Izeliar.”  His  descendants 
are  called  Iziiarites  (lleb.  Yitskari',  ; Sept. 

’I oactapi,  ’latrapi,  '1  oaaap  [Numb,  iii,  27 ; 1 Chron. 
xxiv,  22;  xxvi,  23,  29,  in  the  first  of  which  passages  it 
is  Anglicized  “Izeharites”]).  B.C.  post  1856.  See  also 
Zouak.  “ In  1 Chron.  vi,  22 , Amminadab  is  substituted 
for  Izhar,  as  the  son  of  Kohath  and  father  of  Korah,  in 
the  line  of  Samuel.  This,  however,  must  be  an  acciden- 
tal error  of  the  scribe,  as  in  ver.  38,  where  the  same  gen- 
ealogy is  repeated,  Izhar  appears  again  in  his  right 
place.  The  Codex  Alex,  in  ver.  22  reads  Izhar  in  place 
of  .1  mminadab,  and  the  Aldine  and  Complut.  read  Am- 
minadab between  Izhar  and  Kore,  making  another  gen- 
eration. But  these  are  probably  only  corrections  of  the 
text.  (See  Burlington,  (Seneal.  of  the  0.  T.)"  (Smith). 

Izrahi'ah  (lleb.  Yizrachyah',  sprout  of 

Jehovah  sc.  into  the  world),  the  name  of  one  or  two  men. 

1.  (Sept.  Tf^pia ; Vulg.  Israhia.)  The  son  of  Uzzi, 
and  grandson  of  Tola,  the  son  of  Issachar  (1  Chron.  vii, 
3).  He  was  the  father  of  five  sons  (ibid.).  B.C.  c.  1618. 

2.  (Sept,  omits,  but  some  copies  have  T t%ptac,  others 


ebrated  the  completion  of  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  after 
j the  Exile  (Neh.  xii,  42).  B.C.  446. 

Iz'rallite  (lleb.  Yizrach',  fHT?,  only  with  the  art. 
rPt’j'n,  the  indigenous,  prob.  by  error  of  transcription  for 
‘■'n-'.JP,  a Yizrachite  [but  Fiirst  makes  it  a man’s  name 
=Izrahiah~\, and  this  again  for  “”“TX,  Kzrachite;  Sept, 
has  Tf£pa^\  v.  r.  ’I tonal- ; Vulg.  Jezerites ),  a patronymic 
: epithet  of  Shamhuth,one  of  David’s  generals  (1  Chron. 
I xxvii,  8),  prob.  so  called  as  being  descended  from  Zerah, 
j Judah’s  son.  See  Ezraiiite. 

Iz'li  (Heb.  Yitsri',  the  Jezerite,  otherwise  a 

j former;  Sept.  ’XtnOpi ; Vulg.  I sari),  the  leader  of  the 
fourth  division  of  Levitical  singers  under  David  (1 
Chron.  xxv,  1 1)  ; prob.  the  same  with  Zert,  of  the  sons 
of  Jedutlnm,  mentioned  in  ver.  3.  B.C.  1014. 


J. 


Ja'akan  (lleb.  Yadhan',  ivrester;  Sept,  has  i 

two  names,  To oaicuv  icai  Ovicdp,  other  copies  simply 
Akuv  or  'lain/i;  Vulg.  Jacan),  the  last  named  of  the 
sons  of  Ezer,  son  of  Seir  the  Ilorite  (1  Chron.  i,  42, 
where  it  is  Anglicized  “Jakan”) ; called  in  the  parallel 
passage  (Gen.  xxxvi,  27)  by  a simpler  form  of  the  same  i 
name,  Akan.  B.C.  ante  1964.  His  descendants  appear  . 
to  have  settled  in  the  northern  part  of  the  Arabah.  lie 
was  the  forefather  of  the  Bene-Jaakan  (q.  v.),  round 
whose  wells  the  children  of  Israel  twice  encamped,  once 
after  they  left  Moseroth,  and  just  before  they  went  on 
to  Hor-Hagidgad  (Numb,  xxxiii,  30-32),  and  again  in 
a reverse  direction  after  they  left  Kadesh-barnea,  and 
before  they  reached  Mount  Hor  or  Mosera  (Deut.  x,  6). 
See  Beeroth-bene-Jaakan. 

Jaak'obah  [some  Jaako'bah ] (Heb.  Yaako’bah, 
HZpvp,  a paragogic  form -of  the  name  Jacob;  Sept. 
’IaKa/jd),  one  of  the  prosperous  descendants 
princes)  of  Simeon  that  emigrated  to  the  valley  of  Ge- 
dor  [Gerar]  (1  Chron.  iv,  36).  B.C.  apparently  cir.  710. 

Ja'ala  [many  Jad'la]  (Heb.  Yadla’,  X* 

Sept.  Tcn>]\  v.  r.  ’DX/jX),  one  of  the  Nethinim  (“ser- 
vants of  Solomon”)  whose  descendants  (or  perhaps  a 
place  whose  former  inhabitants)  returned  from  the  Cap- 
tivity with  Zernbbabel  (Neh.  vii,  58);  called  in  the  par- 
allel passage  (Ezra  ii,  56)  by  the  equivalent  [the  final 
X or  n by  Chaldieism]  name  Jaalah  (“5^,  Sept.  Tt- 
Kd).  B.C.  ante  536. 


Ja'alah  [many  Jaa'lak ] (Ezra  ii,  56).  See  Jaala. 

Ja'alam  [many  Jaa'lam ] (Heb.  Yalam', 
concealer;  Sept.  Tf-yXo/i),  the  second  named  of  Esau’s 
three  sons  by  Aholibamah  in  Canaan  (Gen.  xxxvi,  5. 
14;  1 Chron.  i,  35).  B.C.  post  1964. 

Jaan.  See  Dan-jaan.  . 

Ja'anai  [some  Jad'nai]  (Hebrew  Yanay', 
mourner,  otherwise,  for  ST'2^8,  answered  by  Jehovah; 
Sept.  T aval  v.  r.  ’laviv,  Vulg.  Janat),  one  of  the  chief 
Gadites  resident  in  Bashan  (l  Chron.  v,  12).  B.C.  be- 
tween 1093  and  782. 

Jaaphar  Ibn-Tophail,  a distinguished  Arab  of 
the  12th  century,  deserves  our  notice  as  the  author  of  a 
philosophical  treatise  entitled  the  History  of  Hoi  Ibn- 
Yokdan  (translated  into  Latin  by  Pococke  [Oxf.  1671] 
and  into  English  by  Ocklev  [Oxf.  1708,  8vo]).  It  aims 
to  teach  that  “ the  light  of  nature  is  sufficient  to  lead 
mankind  to  a knowledge  of  the  Deity  without  the  aid 
of  revelation.”  Of  Jaaphar’s  personal  history  we  know 
scarcely  anything.  He  is  supposed  to  have  died  about 
See  Gorton’s  Biographical  Dictionary,  s.  v. 

Ja'are-or'egim  (Hebrew  Yudrey ' Oregim', 
-"“X ; Sept.  ’Apaopyip,  Vulg.  Saltus  polymitarius), 
according  to  the  present  text  of  2 Sam.  xxi,  19,  a Beth- 
lehemite,  and  the  father  of  Elhanan,  who  slew  Goliath 
(the  words  “ the  brother  of”  are  added  in  the  A.  Vers.). 
In  the  parallel  passage  (1  Chron.  xx,  5),  besides  other 
differences.  Jair  is  found  instead  of  Jaure,  and  Oregim 


ibex;  1198. 


720 


JAAZER 


JAASAU 

is  omitted.  Oregim  is  not  elsewhere  found  as  a proper 
name,  nor  is  it  a common  word;  and  occurring  as  it 
does  without  doubt  at  the  end  of  the  verse  (Autli.\  ers. 
“weavers”),  in  a sentence  exactly  parallel  to  that  in  1 
Sam.  xvii,  7,  it  is  not  probable  that  it  should  also  occur 
in  the  middle  of  the  same.  The.  conclusion  of  Kenni- 
cott  (Dissertation,  p.  80)  appears  to  be  a just  one— that  in 
the  latter  place  it  has  been  interpolated  from  the  former, 
and  that  Jair  or  Jaar  is  the  correct  reading  instead  of 
Jaare.  See  El. max  ax.  Still  the  agreement  of  the  an- 
cient versions  with  the  present  Hebrew'  text  affords  a 
certain  corroboration  to  that  text,  and  should  not  be 
overlooked.  See  Jaik.  The  Pesliito,  followed  by  the 
Arabic,  substitutes  for  Jaare-Oregim  the  name  “Ma- 
laph  the  wearer,"  to  the  meaning  of  which  we  have  no 
clew.  The  Targum,  on  the  other  hand,  doubtless  anx- 
ious to  avoid  any  apparent  contradiction  of  the  narra- 
tive in  1 Sam.  xvii,  substitutes  David  for  Elhanan,  Jesse 
for  Jaare,  and  is  led  by  the  word  Oregim  to  relate  or 
possibly  to  invent  a statement  as  to  Jesse’s  calling — 
“And  David,  son  of  Jesse,  weaver  of  the  veils  of  the 
house  of  the  sanctuary,  who  was  of  Bethlehem,  slew 
Goliath  the  Gittite.”  Bv  Jerome  Jaare  is  literally  trans- 
lated “damask-weavers’  grove”  (compare  Qucestinnis  He- 
hraica  on  both  passages).  In  Josephus’s  account  (Ant. 
vii,  12,  2)  the  Israelit-ish  champion  is  said  to  have  been 
“Xephan,  the  kinsman  of  David”  (StrpdvoQ  6 avyytvyjQ 
aiiTov) ; the  word  kinsman  perhaps  referring  to  the 
Jewish  tradition  of  the  identity  of  Jair  and  Jesse,  or 
simply  arising  from  the  mention  of  Bethlehem.  In  the 
received  Hebrew  text  Jaare  is  written  with  a small  or 
suspended  n,  showing  that  in  the  opinion  of  the  Maso- 
retes  that  letter  is  uncertain. — Smith.  The  Jewish 
Midrashim  generally  identify  David  with  Elhanan,  and 
interpret  Jaare-Oregim  fancifully;  e.  g.  (1)  as  David’s 
own  name,  “ because  he  was  great  among  the  forest  [of 
thej  Oregim  or  Weavers  [of  the  Law]  ; i.e.  the  Sanhe- 
drim, who  brought  the  llalachah  (legal  decisions)  be- 
fore him  that  he  might  weave  it,”  as  it  were  (Jalkut  on 
2 Sam.  xxi,  10  sq.);  or  (2)  it  is  David’s  name  as  the 
son  of  a mother  who  “wove  veils  for  the  sanctuary;” 
or  (3)  as  an  epithet  of  Jesse.  See  Oregim. 

Ja'asau  [some  Jad'sau ] (Heb.  Yaasav ; 
Sept,  translates  eTroiycsav  q.  d.  “ -"X  but  the  margin  has 
Yudsny’,  " fabricator,  otherwise  for  t*P  marie 
by  Jehovah,  and  so  Vnlg.  Jasi),  an  Israelite  of  the  “sons” 
of  Bani,  who  renounced  his  Gentile  wife  after  the  return 
from  Babylon  (Ezra  x,  37).  B.C.  459. 

Jaa'siel  (Heb.  Yaasiel',  made  by  God; 

Sept.  ’EfrrmjX  and  ’A<w)\ ; Vulg.  Jasiel),  a Mesobaite,and 
one  of  David’s  body-guard  (1  C’hron.  xi,  47,  where  the 
name  is  Anglicized  “Jasiel”);  probably  the  same  with 
the  son  of  Abner  and  viceroy  over  Benjamin  (1  Chron. 
xxvii,  21).  B.C.  1046-1014. 

Jaazani'ah  (Ileh.  Yadzanyah ',  <V heard  by 
Jehovah ; also  in  the  prolonged  form  Yuazanya'hv, 
[2  Kings  xxv,  23;  Ezek.  viii,  11  ] ; sometimes 
in  the  contracted  form  Yezanynh ',  “Jezaniah” 

[Jer.  xlii,  1],  or  Yezanyahv,  “Jezaniah”  [Jer. 

xl,  8]  ; Septuag.  ’leZoviac,  but  ’Adaptor  in  Jer.  xlii,  f; 
Vulg.  Jezamas),  the  name  of  four  men  about  the  time 
of  the  Captivity. 

1.  The  son  of  Jeremiah,  and  one  of  the  chief  Recha- 

bites  (i.  e.  sheik)  whom  the  prophet  tested  with  the  offer 
of  wine  (.Jer.  xxxv,  3).  11.C.  (506.  See  Jkiionamar. 

2.  The  son  of  Shaplian,  whom  Ezekiel  in  his  vision 
saw  standing  in  the  midst  of  the  seventy  elders  offering 
idolatrous  incense  in  the  “chambers  of  imagery”  at  Je- 
rusalem (Ezek.  viii,  II).  B.C.  593. 

3.  The  soil  of  Azur,  and  one  of  the  “ princes”  among 

the  twenty-live  men  seen  in  vision  by  the  same  prophet 
at  the  east  gate  of  the  Temple,  and  represented  as  en- 
couraging the  city  in  its  wicked  pride  (Ezek.  xi.  1). 
B.C.  593  ' 


4.  The  son  of  Hosliaiah,  a Maachatliite,  who  acted 
in  conjunction  with  Johanan,  the  son  of  Kareah,  after 
the  downfall  of  Jerusalem, first  in  submitting  to  the  Bab- 
ylonian governor  Gedaliah,  and,  after  his  assassination, 
in  requesting  Jeremiah’s  advice  as  to  the  proper  course 
for  the  people  to  pursue  (2  Kings  xxv,  23;  Jer.  xl,  8; 
xlii,  1).  He  appears  to  have  assisted  in  recovering  Ish- 
mael’s  prey  from  his  clutches  (comp.  Jer.  xli,  II).  After 
that  he  probably  went  to  Egypt  with  the  rest  (Jer.  xliii, 
4,  5).  He  is  doubtless  the  same  person  called  Azakiah, 
the  son  of  Hosliaiah,  who  rejected  the  divine  counsel 
thus  asked,  and  insisted  on  fleeing  into  Egypt  (Jer.  xliii, 
1).  B.C.  587.  See  Jeremiah. 

Jaa'zer  (Hebrew  Yaazeyr',  1 Chron.  vi,  81 ; 

xxvi,  31;  elsewhere  the  more  abbreviated  form 
Yazer',  helper ; Sept.  ’ler£//p  [2  Sam.  xxiv,  5,’EXif^p]  ; 
Auth.  Vers.  “ Jaazer”  in  Numb,  xxi,  32 ; xxxii,  35 ; else- 
where “ Jazer”),  a city  on  the  east  of  the  Jordan,  taken 
by  the  Israelites  under  Moses  from  the  Amorites  (Numb, 
xxi,  32),  and  assigned,  with  other  neighboring  places  of 
Gilead, to  the  tribe  of  Gad  (Numb,  xxxiii,  1,3,  35;  Josh, 
xiii, 25) ; also  constituted  a Levitieal  city  (Josh,  xxi, 39 ; 
1 Chron.  vi,  81).  It  must  have  been  a place  of  impor- 
tance, for  it  gave  its  name  to  a large  section  of  country. 
The  “land  of  Jazer”  was  fertile,  and  its  rich  pastures  at- 
tracted the  attention  of  the  tribes  of  Reuben,  Gad,  and 
Manasseh  (Numb. xxxii,  I).  As  it  is  mentioned  between 
Dibon  and  Nimrah,  it  appears  to  have  stood  on  the  high 
plain  north  of  Heslibon  (Numb,  xxxii,  3).  It  was  allot- 
ted to  the  Merarite  Levites  (Josh,  xxi,  39;  1 Chron.  vi, 
81),  but  in  the  time  of  David  it  would  appear  to  have 
been  occupied  by  Hebronites,  i.  e.  descendants  of  Ko- 
hath  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  31).  It  seems  to  have  given  its 
name  to  a district  of  dependent  or  “daughter”  towns 
(Numb,  xxi,  32,  A.V.  “villages;”  1 Mace,  v,  8).  It  is 
mentioned  in  connection  with  the  census  under  David 
(2  Sam.  xxiv,  5;  1 Chron.  xxvi,  31),  and  was  among 
the  Moabitish  places  that  experienced  the  desolating 
march  of  the  Chaldjean  invaders  (Isa.  xvi,8;  Jer.  xlviii, 
32,  in  which  latter  passage  a “sea  of  Jazer”  is  spoken 
ol).  In  the  “burdens”  proclaimed  over  Moab  by  the 
prophets,  Jazer  is  mentioned  so  as  to  imply  that  there 
were  vineyards  there,  and  that  the  cultivation  of  the 
vine  had  extended  thither  from  Sibmali  (Isa.  xvi,8, 9; 
Jer.  xlviii,  32).  After  the  exile  it  remained  in  the 
hands  of  the  Ammonites  (I  Mace,  v,  8).  According  to 
Eusebius  (Onomast.  s.  v.  ’InZijp),  it  lay  10  R.  miles  west 
(south-west)  of  Philadelphia  (Rabbath-Ammon),  and  15 
from  Heshbon.  Josephus  calls  the  place  Jazorus  (’ I «- 
£wpoc,  A nt.  xii,  8,  I),  and  Ptolemy  Guzorus  (ro£wpop, 
v,  16,  9).  Seetzen  (in  Zach’s  Monatl.  Corresp.  xviii, 
429)  thinks  it  is  found  in  the  present  ruins  called  Syr  or 
Sar  (Biirckliardt's  Trav.  in  Syria,  p.  355, 357),  but  this 
is  too  near  Kabbah  according  to  Zimmerman’s  map, 
which  also  gives  the  village  of  Seir  at  the  head  of  a 
wady  of  the  same  name,  at  about  the  proper  location  to 
correspond  with  that,  of  Eusebius.  Raumer  ( Puldst . p. 
254)  thinks  it  is  rather  the  Ain  JIazir  (Burekliardt, 
Trav.  p.609)  ; but  this  is  in  consequence  of  the  statement 
of  Eusebius  in  another  place  (Onomast.  s.  v.  ’A£wp),  that 
it  lay  eight  miles  from  Philadelphia,  confounding  Jazer 
with  Hazor  (see  Keil’s  Comment,  on  Josh,  xiii,  25).  As 
to  the  “ sea  of  Jazer”  mentioned  by  Jeremiah  (xlviii, 
32),  which  Gesenius  ( Comment . on  Isa.  xvi,  8)  thinks  an 
error,  while  Reland  confounds  it  with  the  Jabbok  (Pal- 
rpstina,  p.  825),  and  others  with  other  streams  (Buseliing, 
Krdhesch.  xi,  389);  it  is  probably  (see  Hitzig,  Comm.zn 
Jes.  p.  196)  the  Xahr  Syr  or  the  above-named  wady 
(see  Prof.  Stuart,  in  the  Jiibl.  Repos.  1836,  p.  157).  With 
this  identification  Schwarz  coincides  (Palestine,  p.  230). 
Porter  (in  Kitto’s  Cyclop,  s.  v.)  suggests  that  “ the  land  of 
Jazer”  must  have  extended  to  the  shore  of  the  Dead  Sea, 
and  that  “the  sea  of  Jazer”  may  therefore  have  been  so 
called  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  district,  just  as  the 
northern  lake  took  the  name  of  “ Tiberias,”  and  “ Gen- 
esaret,”  and  “ Chinneretli.”  But  this  is  unconfirmed  by 


JAAZIAII 


721 


JABBOIv 


any  other  passage.  In  Numb.  xxi,24,  where  tne  pres- 
ent Hebrew  text  has  T3  (A.  V.  “ strong”),  the  Sept,  has 
put  'I aZi)p.  Burekhardt,  in  travelling  from  Es-Salt  to 
Ileshbon,  passed  the  last-named-above  ruined  town,  call- 
ed Sir,  situated  on  the  side  of  a bill,  and  immediately 
below  it  was  the  source  of  a stream  which  ran  down  to  j 
the  Jordan  ( Trap . in  Syria,  p.  3G4).  The  ruins  appear 
to  have  been  on  the  left  (east)  of  the  road,  and  below 
them  and  the  road  is  the  source  of  the  wady  Szir 
(Burekhardt),  or  J tojeb  es-Szir  (Seetzen),  answering, 
though  certainly  in  position,  yet  imperfectly  in  charac- 
ter, to  the  wo Tctfibg  fikyiaroQ  of  Eusebius.  .Seetzen  con- 
jectures that  the  sea  of  Jazer  may  have  been  at  the 
source  of  this  brook,  considerable  marshes  or  pools  some- 
times existing  at  these  spots.  (Comp,  his  earlier  sug- 
gestion of  the  source  of  the  wady  Serha,  p.  393.)  Szir, 
or  Seir,  is  shown  on  the  map  of  Van  de  Velde  as  9 1 to- 
man miles  W.  of  Amman,  and  about  12  from  Heshbon. 
There  can  be  little  doubt  that  this  is  the  Jazer  of  the 
Bible  (Van  de  Velde,  Memoir,  p.  323).  The  prophecies 
of  Scripture  are  fidfilled.  The  city  and  country  are 
alike  desolate.  The  vineyards  that  once  covered  the 
hill-sides  are  gone ; and  the  wild  Bedawin  from  the  east- 
ern desert  make  cultivation  of  any  kind  impossible  (Por- 
ter, Hand-book  for  Sytda  and  Palestine,  p.  298  sq.). 

Jaazi'ah  (Ileb.  only  in  the  paragogie  form  Yuiizi- 
ya'hu,  ilPm??,  comforted  by  Jehovah ; Sept. ’O^/n),  ap- 
parently a third  son,  or  a descendant  of  Merari  the  Le- 
vite,  and  the  founder  of  an  independent  house  in  that 
family  (l  Chron.xxiv,  245,  27)  (B.C.  ante  1014) ; but  nei- 
ther he  nor  his  descendants  are  mentioned  elsewhere 
(compare  the  lists  in  xxiii,  21-23;  Exod.  vi,  19).  The 
word  Beno  (132),  which  follows  Jaaziah,  should  proba- 
bly be  translated  “ his  son,"  i.  e.  the  son  of  Merari.  But 
the  text  is  in  such  a state  that  it  is  hard  to  know  in 
what  light  to  regard  the  person  to  whom  it  is  assigned. 
Elsewhere  the  only  sons  of  Merari  mentioned  are  Mahli 
and  Mushi  (Exod.  vi,  10;  Numb,  iii,  33;  I Chron.  vi,  4 
[A.V.  19]  ; xxiii,  21). 

Jaa'ziel  (Ileb.  YadzieV,  comforted  by  God; 

Sept.  'DjouX  v.  r.  ’0£i  i/X),  a Levi  deal  musician  among 
those  of  the  subordinate  part  (1  Chron.  xv,  18) ; doubt- 
less the  same  with  the  Aziee  who  was  one  of  those  that 
performed  the  soprano  (ver.  20).  B.C.  1014. 

Jabajahites  is  the  name  of  a modern  Mohamme- 
dan sect  which  teaches  “that  the  knowledge  of  God  ex- 
tends to  all  things,  but  is  perfected  by  experience;  and 
that  he  governs  the  world  according  to  the  chance  of 
divers  events,  as  not  having  had,  from  eternity,  a per- 
fect knowledge  of  all  things  future.”  Of  course  the  or- 
thodox Mohammedans  look  upon  this  doctrine  as  heret- 
ical, and  condemn  the  Jabajahites  as  an  impious  and 
blasphemous  set.  See  Broughton,  Biblioth.  Hist.  Sac.  i, 
498.  See  Mohammedanism. 

Ja'bal  (Ileb.  Yabul',  ^2%  a stream,  as  in  Isa.  xxx, 
25;  xliv,  4;  Sept.  'Uoj3>)\,  Josephus  ‘1  (ofiijXog,  A nt.  i,  2, 
2),  a descendant  of  Cain,  son  of  Lantech  and  Adah,  and 
brother  of  Jubal;  described  in  Gen.  iv,  20  as  “the  father  ' 
of  such  as  dwell  in  tents,  and  have  cattle.”  B.C.  cir. 
3500.  This  obviously  means  that  Jabal  was  the  first 
who  adopted  that  nomadic  life  which  is  still  followed  by 
numerous  Arabian  and  Tartar  tribes  in  Asia  (compare 
Buttmau,  Mythologus,  i,  1G4  sq.).  Abel  had  long  before 
been  a keeper  of  sheep  (Gen.  iv,  2) ; but  Jabal  invented 
such  portable  habitations  (formed,  doubtless,  of  skins) 
as  enabled  a pastoral  people  to  remove  their  dwellings 
with  them  from  one  place  to  another,  when  they  led 
their  Hocks  to  new  pastures.  See  Tent.  Bochart  (Jlie- 
roz.  i,  ii,  c.  44,  near  the  end)  points  out  the  difference 
between  his  mode  of  life  and  Abel’s.  Jabal’s  was  a mi- 
gratory life,  and  his  possessions  probably  included  other 
animals  besides  sheep.  The  shepherds  who  were  before 
him  may  have  found  the  land  on  which  they  dwelt  suf- 
ficiently productive  for  the  constant  sustenance  of  their 
IV.— Z z 


flocks  in  the  neighborhood  of  their  fixed  abodes.  There 
is  no  need  of  supposing  (with  Hartmann,  Ueb.  Pentat.  p. 
395)  any  historical  anticipation  in  Gen.  iv,  17. 

Jabalot,  Francois  Ferdinand,  an  Italian  preach- 
er of  the  Dominican  order,  was  born  at  Parma  in  1780, 
and  educated  at  the  university  in  that  place.  He  paid 
I particular  attention  to  the  study  of  Hebrew,  and  gained 
notoriety  as  a preacher  and  student  of  the  Oriental  lan- 
guages. He  was  a distinguished  member  of  the  “ Con- 
gregation of  the  Index,”  and  one  of  the  examiners  of 
bishops.  He  died  at  ltome,  March  9, 1834.  His  writ- 
ings are,  Degli  Ebrei  nel  loro  rapporto  colie  nazioni  Cris- 
tiane  (Borne,  1825,  12mo) : — Orazione  funebre  in  morte 
del  conte  .4  ntonio  Cerati  (Parma,  1816,  4to).  See  Iloefer, 
Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvi,  141. 

Jab'bok  (Ileb.  Yabbok',  p2^,  according  to  Simo- 
nis,  Ononuist.  p.  315,  a pouring  out,  by  Chaldaism  from 
pp2;  otherwise,  for  p2Np,  a wrestling,  from  p2X,  a 
coincidence  that  seems  alluded  to  in  Gen.  xxxii,  24 ; 
Sept.  'lafioJK,  but  T«/3a»x  in  Gen.  xxxii,  22 ; Josephus 
'ldf3aicxog,  Ant.  iv,  5,  2;  Chald.  Targ.),  one  of 

the  streams  which  traverse  the  country  east  of  the  Jor- 
dan, and  which,  after  a course  nearly  from  east  to  west, 
between  the  districts  of  Merad  and  Belka  (Seetzen, 
xviii,  427),  falls  into  that  river  nearly  midway  between 
the  Sea  of  Galilee  and  the  Dead  Sea,  or  about  forty-five 
miles  below  the  Lake  of  Tiberias,  another  outlet  for  the 
water  in  time  of  freshets  being  situated  a few  miles 
higher  up  (Ljmch,  Exped.  p.  253,  and  Map).  It  seems 
to  rise  in  the  Ilauran  mountains,  and  its  whole  course 
may  be  computed  at  sixty-five  miles.  It  is  mentioned 
in  Scripture  as  the  boundary  which  separated  the  king- 
dom of  Sihon,  king  of  the  Amorites,  or  the  territory  of 
the  Ammonites,  from  that  of  Og,  king  of  Bashan  (Josh, 
xii,  1-5;  Numb,  xxi,  24 ; Dent,  ii,  37  ; Judg.  xi,  13,  22) ; 
and  it  appears  afterwards  to  have,  been  the  boundary 
between  the  tribe  of  Reuben  and  the  half  tribe  of  Ma- 
nasseh  (Numb,  xxi,  6;  Deut.  iii,  1G).  The  earliest  no- 
tice of  it  occurs  in  Gen.  xxxii,  22,  in  the  account  of  Ja- 
cob’s mysterious  struggle  with  Jehovah  in  its  vicinity 
(south  bank).  According  to  Eusebius  ( Onomast . s.  v.) 
it  was  between  Gerasa  (Jerash)  and  Philadelphia  (Am- 
man). Origen  (Opera,  ii,  43)  says  it  was  known  in 
his  day  by  the  name  Jambice  (’I a/ifiiM)  or  Toju/3/bcij). 

“The  stream  is  important,  in  a geographical  point  of 
view,  and  a knowledge  of  its  topography  helps  us  to 
understand  more  easily  some  passages  of  Scripture.  It 
was  the  boundary  between  the  Amorites  ami  the  Am- 
monites. We  are  told  that  after  the  defeat  of  Sihon, 
king  of  the  Amorites,  at  Jazer,  1 Israel  possessed  his 
land  from  Arnon  unto  Jabbok,  even  unto  the  children 
of  Ammon ; for  the  border  of  the  children  of  Ammon 
was  strong’  (Numb,  xxi,  24).  The  Jabbok,  flowing  in 
a wild  and  deep  ravine  through  the  Gilead  mountains, 
formed  a strong  natural  frontier  for  the  bordering  prin- 
cipalities. It  would  seem  that  at  the  Exodus  the  Am- 
monites possessed  the  country  eastward  and  northward 
of  the  upper  sources  and  branches  of  the  Jabbok,  and 
that  Sihon  and  Og  occupied  the  whole  region  between 
the  Ammonites  and  the  Jordan,  extending  as  far  north 
as  the  Sea  of  Galilee  (Josh,  xii,  2-8;  Josephus,  Ant.  iv, 
5,  2 and  3).  The  Israelites  conquered  Sihon  and  Og, 
and  took  their  kingdoms;  and  the  possessions  of  the 
three  tribes,  thus  acquired,  extended  from  the  Dead  Sea 
to  Hermon;  but  they  were  not  permitted  to  touch  the 
territory  of  Ammon  (Deut.  ii,  37 ; iii,  1G).  About  fif- 
teen miles  from  the  Jordan  the  Jabbok  forks,  one  branch 
coming  down  from  Jerash  on  the  north,  and  the  other 
from  Kabbath- Amman  on  the  south ; these  branches 
formed  the  western  frontier  of  the  Ammonites,  dividing 
them  from  the  Amorites,  and  subscqentlv  from  the  Is- 
raelites (Reland,  Pal.  p.  103).  Previous  to  the  Exodus 
the  territory  of  the  Ammonites  was  much  more  exten- 
sive, embracing  the  whole  region  between  the  Jabbok 
and  the  Arnon;  but  the  Amorites  drove  them  out  of 
that  portion,  and  forced  them  into  the  mountains  around 


m 


JABEZ 


ABESII 


the  sources  of  the  Jabbok,  and  into  the  plains  eastward 
(Judg.  xi,  13  22)”  (Porter  in  Kitto,  s.  v.).  It  now 
called  the  Zerka  [or  Wady  Zurka ] (from  its  “blue” 
color,  Robinson’s  Researches,  iii,  Append,  p.  32G ; but,  ac- 
cording to  Schwarz,  Palest,  p.  52,  from  a fortress  of  the 
same  name  on  the  caravan  route  from  Damascus  to 
Mecca).  Its  sources  are  chiefly  on  the  eastern  side  of 
the  mountains  of  Gilead,  and  it  also  drains  a portion 
of  the  high  plateau  of  Arabia  beyond.  In  its  passage 
westward  across  the  plains  it  more  than  once  passes  un- 
der ground.  The  upper  branches  and  tributaries  are 
mere  winter  streams.  At  the  point  where  the  two  main 
branches  from  Jerasli  and  Ammon  unite,  the  stream  be- 
comes perennial,  and  often,  after  heavy  rain,  is  a foam- 
ing, impassable  torrent.  “ The  ravine  through  which  it 
flows  is  narrow,  deep,  and  in  places  wild.  Throughout 
nearly  its  whole  course  it  is  fringed  by  thickets  of  cane 
and  oleander,  and  the  large  clustering  flowers  of  the  lat- 
ter give  the  banks  a gay  and  gorgeous  appearance  dur- 
ing the  spring  and  early  summer”  (Porter,  Handbook 
for  S.  and  P.  p.  310).  Higher  up,  the  sides  of  the  ra- 
vine are  clothed  with  forests  of  evergreen  oak,  pine,  and 
arbutus;  and  the  undulating  forest  glades  are  carpeted 
with  green  grass,  and  strewn  with  innumerable  wild 
flowers.  The  scenery  along  the  banks  of  the  Jabbok 
is  probably  the  most  picturescpie  in  Palestine;  and  the 
ruins  of  town,  and  village,  and  fortress  which  stud  the 
surrounding  mountain  sides  render  the  country'  as  inter- 
esting as  it  is  beautiful.  The  water  is  pleasant,  and, 
the  bed  being  rocky,  the  stream  runs  clear  (Burckhardt’s 
Syria,  p.  347  ; Irby  and  Mangles,  Tracels,  p.  319;  Buck- 
ingham, Palestine,  il,  109 ; Lindsay,  ii,  123). 

Ja'besh  (Ileb.  Yabesh -2^,  dry,  as  in  Job  xiii,  25; 
Ezek.  xvii,  24,  etc.;  also  written  fully  Yabeysh ',  23“'2^, 

1 Sam.  xi,  1, 3,  5, 10 ; xxxi,  1 1 ; 2 Sam.  ii,  4,  5 ; 1 Chron. 
x,  12,  first  time),  the  name  of  a place  and  also  of  a man. 

1.  (Sept,  in  Sam.  ’lafiig,  in  Chron.  ra/3fi£.)  The 
shorter  form  (1  Sara,  xi,  3,  9,  10;  xx,  12,  13;  1 Chron. 
x,  12,  only)  of  the  name  of  the  city  elsewhere  called 
Jabksii-Gii.eai)  (q.  v.). 

2.  (Sept.  ’lajSeigv.  r.  ’Afiiig,  Joseph.  lafiijoog,  Ant. 
ix,  11, 1.)  The  father  of  Shallum,  which  latter  usurped 
the  throne  of  Israel  by  the  assassination  of  Zachariah 
(2  Kings  xv,  10, 13, 14).  B.C.  ante  770. 

Ja'besh-gil'ead  (lleb.  Yabesh'  Gilad',  ’22^ 
[also  12"2^,  see  Jabesh,  by  which  simple  form  it  is 
sometimes  called];  Sept.  ’lafieig  or  ’lafStc  [in  Chron. 
Po/^ic]  PoXaoo  or  r/)c  T aXaaCindog ; Josephus  'la- 
fiarog  [.4«f.  v,  2,  11],  ’\af3ig  [Anf.vi,  5, 1],  and  ’lor/3i<r- 
oog  [-1  nt.  vi,  14,3]),  a town  beyond  the  Jordan,  in  the 
land  of  Gilead,  distant  a night’s  journey  from  Bethshan 
(1  Sam.  xxxi,  11 ; 2 Sam.  ii,  4;  xxi,  12).  In  the  sense 
denoted  in  this  juxtaposition,  Gilead  included  the  half 
tribe  of  Manasseh  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  21),  as  well  as  the 
tribes  of  Gad  and  Reuben  (Numb,  xxxii,  1-42)  east  of 
the  Jordan;  and  of  the  cities  of  Gilead.  Jabesh  was  the 
chief,  lying  within  the  limits  of  the  half  tribe  of  Manas- 
seh east.  It  is  first  mentioned  in  connection  with  the 
cruel  vengeance  taken  upon  its  inhabitants  for  not  com- 
ing up  to  Mizpeh  on  the.  occasion  of  the  fierce  war  be- 
tween the  children  of  Israel  and  the  tribe  of  Benjamin. 
Every  male  of  the  city  was  put  to  the  sword,  and  all 
the  virgins— to  the  number  of  400 — seized  to  be  given 
in  marriage  to  the  GOO  men  of  Benjamin  that  remained 
(Judg.  xxi,  8-14).  Nevertheless  the  city  survived  the 
loss  of  its  males,  and  is  next  memorable  for  the  siege  it 
sustained  from  Nahash,  king  of  the  Ammonites,  the  rais- 
ing of  which  formed  the  first  exploit  of  the  newly-elect- 
ed king  Saul,  and  procured  his  confirmation  in  the  sov- 
ereignty. The  inhabitants  had  agreed  to  surrender,  and 
to  have  their  right  eyes  put  out  (to  incapacitate  them 
from  military  service),  but  were  allowed  seven  days  to 
ratify  the  treaty.  In  the  mean  time  Saul  collected  a 
large  army,  and  came  to  their  relief  (1  Sam.  xi).  This 
service  was  gratefully  remembered  by  the  Jabeshites, 
and  about  forty  years  after,  when  he  and  his  three  sons 


■were  slain  by  the  Philistines  in  Mount  Gilboa  (1  Sam, 
xxxi,  8),  the  men  of  Jabesh-gilead  came  by  night  and 
took  down  their  corpses  from  the  walls  of  Bethshan, 
where  they  had  been  exposed  as  trophies,  then  burned 
the  bodies,  and  buried  the  bones  under  a tree  near  the 
city,  observing  a strict  funeral  fast  for  seven  days  (ver. 
13).  “Jabesh-gilead  was  on  the  mountain,  east  of  the 
Jordan,  in  full  view  of  Bethshan,  and  these  brave  men 
could  creep  up  to  the  tell  along  wady  Jalud  without  be- 
ing seen,  while  the  deafening  roar  of  the  brook  would 
render  it  impossible  for  them  to  be  heard”  (Thomson, 
Land  and  Book,  ii,  174).  David  does  not  forget  to  bless 
them  for  this  act  of  piety  towards  his  old  master,  and  his 
more  than  brother  (2  Sam.  ii,  15),  though  he  afterwards 
had  the  remains  translated  to  the  ancestral  sepulchre 
in  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  (2  Sam.  xxi,  14).  Jabesh  still 
existed  as  a town  in  the  time  of  Eusebius,  who  places  it 
on  a hill  six  miles  from  Pella,  towards  Gerasa  ( Omrnast . 
s.  v.  ’ApurwB  and  ’la[3f7g).  Mr.  Buckingham  thinks  it 
may  be  found  in  a place  called  Jehaz  or  Jejaz,  marked 
by  mins  upon  a hill  in  a spot  not  far  from  which,  ac- 
cording to  the  above  indications,  Jabesh  must  have  been 
situated  ( Trarels , ii,  130,  134).  It  was  more  probably 
situated  on  the  present  wady  Jabes,  which  Burckhardt 
(True,  in  Syria,  p.  289)  describes  as  entering  the  Jordan 
not  far  below  Beisan.  According  to  Schwarz  (Palest. 
p.  234),  there  is  a village  of  the  same  name  still  existing 
on  this  wady  ten  miles  east  of  Jordan ; but  Dr.  Robin- 
son, during  his  last  visit  to  this  region,  sought  in  vain 
for  any  village  or  ruins  by  that  name  (which,  he  says,  is 
applied  exclusively  to  the  wady), but  thinks  the  site  of 
Jabesh-gilead  may  be  marked  by  that  of  the  mins  called 
by  the  Arabs  ed-Deir  (the  convent),  high  up  the  wady, 
on  the  south  side,  on  a hill,  and  containing  columns  as 
he  was  informed  (new  ed.  of  Researches,  iii,  319).  It  is 
about  six  miles  from  the  ruins  of  Pella,  near  the  line  of 
the  ancient  road  to  Gerasa  (Van  de  Yelde,  Tracels,  ii, 
349-52 ; Porter,  Handbook  for  Syria  and  Palest,  p.  317 ; 
Stanley,  Sinai  and  Pal.  p.  290). 

Ja'bez  (Ileb.  Yabets',  ^22?,  according  to  1 Chron. 
iv,  9,  affliction,  sc.  to  his  mother,  apparently  by  trans- 
position from  the  root  222;  Sept.  ’iyafii]g  and  Va}3i)g 
or  rdfipg),  the  name  of  a man  and  also  of  a place. 

1.  A descendant  of  Judah  (B.C.  post  1012),  but  of 
what  particular  family  is  not  apparent,  although  we 
have  this  remarkable  account  of  him  inserted  among  a 
series  of  bare  pedigrees:  “And  Jabez  was  more  honora- 
ble than  his  brethren  : and  his  mother  called  his  name 
Jabez,  saying,  Because  I bare  him  with  sorrow'  (222} 
o'tseb ).  And  Jabez  called  on  the  God  of  Israel,  saying, 
Oh  that  thou  wouldst  bless  me  indeed,  and  enlarge  my 
coast,  and  that  thine  hand  might  be  with  me,  and  that 
thon  wouldst  keep  me  from  evil,  that  it  may  not  grieve 
me  (h222,  otsbi ')!  And  God  granted  him  that  which 
he  requested”  (1  Chron.  iv,  9, 10).  It  is  very  doubtful 
whether  any  connection  exists  between  this  genealogy 
and  that  in  ii,  50-55.  Several  names  appear  in  both — 
Hur,  Epliratah,  Bethlehem,  Zareathites  (in  A.  V.  iv,  2 
inaccurately  “ Zorathitos”),  Joab,  Caleb;  and  there  is 
much  similarity  between  others,  as  Reehab  and  Rechali, 
Eshton  and  Eshtanlites ; but  any  positive  connection 
seems  undemonstrable.  The  Targum  identifies  Jabez 
and  Otlmiel.  For  the  traditionary  notices  of  this  per- 
son and  his  character,  see  Clarke’s  Comment,  ad  loc. 

2.  A place  described  as  being  inhabited  by  several 
families  of  the  scribes  descended  from  the  lvenites,  and 
allied  to  the  Kechabites  (1  Chron.  ii,  55).  It  occurs  in 
a notice  of  the  progeny  of  Salma,  who  was  of  Judah, 
and  closely  connected  with  Bethlehem  (ver.  51),  possi- 
bly the  father  of  Boaz;  and  also — though  how  is  not 
clear — with  Joab.  The  Targum  states  some  curious 
particulars,  which,  however,  do  not  much  elucidate  the 
difficulty,  and  which  are  probably  a mixture  of  trust- 
worthy tradition  and  of  mere  invention  based  on  philo- 
logical grounds.  Eochab  is  there  identified  with  Ee- 
chabiah,  the  son  of  Eliezer,  Moses’s  younger  son  (1 


JABEZ 


*723 


JABLONSKI 


Chron.  xxvi,  25),  and  Jabez  with  Othhiel  the  Kenezite, 
who  bore  the  name  of  Jabez  “because  he  founded  by 
his  counsel  (ft:*"':?)  a school  (XipE’in)  of  disciples 
called  Tiratliites,  Sliimeathites,  and  Sucathitos.”  See 
also  the  quotations  from  Talmud,  Temurah,  in  Kuxtorfs 
Lex.  col.  966,  where  a similar  derivation  is  given.  As 
the  place  appears  to  have  been  situated  within  the  ter- 
ritory of  Judah,  it  may  have  been  settled  by  the  numer- 
ous posterity  of  the  above  person  by  the  same  name 
(comp.  “ the  men  of  Rechah,”  1 Chron.  iv,  12).  The  as- 
sociated names  would  seem  to  indicate  a locality  near, 
if  not  identical  with  Kirjath-jearim  (comp,  jn  the  same 
region  Kirjath-sepher,  or  book-town,  implying  the  liter- 
ary avocation  of  its  inhabitants),  where  some  of  the 
same  families  appear  to  have  dwelt  (l  Chron.  ii,  53),  e.g. 
the  Ithrites  — Kenitcs,  the  Shumathites  = Simeathites. 

Jabez,  Isaac  ben-Salomo  ben -Isaac  ben-Jo- 
seimt,  a Jewish  commentator  of  some  note,  flourished 
in  the  15th  century.  Of  his  personal  history  we  are 
uninformed,  but  his  works,  of  great  celebrity  in  the 
15th  century,  still  continue  to  be  considered  valuable 
contributions  to  exegetical  literature;  and  Frankfurter, 
in  his  “Rabbinic  Bible,”  inserted  the  following,  which 
are,  however,  rather  compilations  from  different  exposi- 
tors than  the  original  productions  of  Jabez : (1)  rib  nr 
mrP,or  Commentci7'y  on  the  Psalms: — (2) 
or  Commentary  on  Proverbs: — (3)  “H w or  Com- 

mentary on  Proverbs: — (4)  C’E'ip  EHp,  or  Commen- 
tary on  the  Sony  of  Sonys: — (5)  p"”!^  n -U,  or  Com- 
mentary on  Ruth:— (6)  E^EH  rpTi,  or  Commentary 
on  Lamentations: — (7)  ET2  or  Commentary  on 

the  Book  of  Ecclesiastes: — (8)  ElVu  T“EE,  or  Com- 
mentary on  the  Book  of  Esther : — (9)  P3“I3,  or 

Commentary  on  Daniel: — (10)  E^Ein  or  Com- 

mentary on  Ezra  and  Xehemiah.  Besides  these,  Jabez 
wrote  "|*1  j£ “l  p2%  or  homiletical  Commentary  on  the 
Haphtaroth,  or  Sabbatic  Lessons  from  the  prophets 
(Belvidcre,  near  Constantinople,  1593,  folio):  — rbo 
PniEP,  or  Commentary  on  the  Pentateuch.  See  Wolf, 
Biblioth.  Ifebreea,  i,694;  iii,  617  srp;  iv,886;  Fiirst, /AVv-  j 
Hath.  Jud.  ii,  2 ; Steinsclineider,  Cataloyus  Libr.  in  Bib-  ‘ 
lioth.  Bodl.  col.  1125;  C.  D.  Ginsburg,  in  Kitto,  s.  v. 

Ja'bin  (Ileb.  Yabin',  mf2\  discerner ; Sept.  ’lafiig 
[v.  r.  T afiiv,  but  ’lafitiv  in  Psa.  lxxxiii,  9],  Josephus 
’ia/3<V of,  A nt.  v,  5,  1),  the  name  of  two  kings  of  the  Ca- 
naanitisli  city  llazor.  See  Razor.  It  was  possibly  a 
royal  title,  like  Agag  among  the  Amalekites,  and  Abim- 
elech  among  the  Philistines. 

1.  A king  of  Razor,  and  one  of  the  most  powerful  of 
all  the  princes  who  reigned  in  Canaan  when  it  was  in- 
vaded by  the  Israelites  (Josh,  xi,  1-14).  Ilis  dominion 
seems  to  have  extended  over  all  the  north  part  of  the 
country ; and  after  the  ruin  of  the  league  formed  against 
the  Hebrews  in  the  south  by  Adonizedek,  king  of  Jeru- 
salem, he  assembled  his  tributaries  near  the  waters  of 
Merom  (the  Lake  Iluleh),  and  called  all  the  people  to 
arms.  This  coalition  was  destroyed,  as  the  one  in  the 
south  had  been,  and  Jabin  himself  perished  in  the  sack 
of  Razor,  his  capital,  B.C.  cir.  1615.  This  prince  was 
the  last  powerful  enemy  with  whom  Joshua  combated, 
and  his  overthrow  seems  to  have  been  regarded  as  the 
crowning  act  in  the  conquest  of  the  Promised  Land, 
leaving  only  the  Anakim  in  the  mountains  of  Judah 
and  Ephraim  to  be  dispossessed  in  detail  (Josh,  xi,  21- 
23 ; comp,  xiv,  6-15). 

2.  Another  king  of  Hazor.  and  probably  descended 
from  the  preceding  (Judg.  iv,  2,  3),  with  whom  some 
(Maurer,  Comment,  on  Josh,  xi ; Hervev,  Genealoyies,  p. 
228)  have  confounded  him  (see  llavemick,  Einleit.  II,  i, 
53 ; Keil,  on  Joshua  xi,  10-15).  It  appears  that  during 
one  of  the  servitudes  of  the  Israelites,  probably  when 
they  lay  under  the  yoke  of  Cushan  or  Eglon,  the  king- 


dom of  Hazor  was  reconstructed.  The  narrative  gives 
to  this  second  Jabin  even  the  title  of  “ king  of  Canaan 
and  this,  with  the  possession  of  900  iron-armed  war- 
chariots,  implies  unusual  power  and  extent  of  dominion. 
The  iniquities  of  the  Israelites  having  lost  them  the  di- 
vine protection,  Jabin  gained  the  mastery  over  them; 
and,  stimulated  by  the  memory  of  apeient  hostilities, 
oppressed  them  heavily  for  twenty  years,  B.C.  1429- 
1409.  From  this  thraldom  they  were  relieved  by  the 
great  victory  won  by  Barak  in  the' plain  of  Esdraelon, 
over  the  hosts  of  Jabin,  commanded  by  Sisera,  one  of 
the  most  renowned  generals  of  those  times  (Judg.  iv, 
10-16).  See  Siseua.  The  well-compacted  power  of  the 
king  of  Razor  was  not  yet,  however,  entirely  broken. 
The  war  was  still  prolonged  for  a time,  but  ended  in  the 
entire  ruin  of  Jabin,  and  the  subjugation  of  his  territo- 
ries by  the  Israelites  (Judg.  iv,  24).  This  is  the  Jabin 
whose  name  occurs  in  Psa.  lxxxiii,  10.  See  Razor. 

Jabineau,  IIenri,  a French  religious  writer,  bom 
at  Etampes  near  the  opening  of  the  last  century,  was, 
after  completing  his  studies  at  Paris,  appointed  profess- 
or at  the  Vitry-le-Fran^ais  College  on  his  refusal  to 
subscribe  the  formulary  generally  submitted  before  a 
candidate  is  permitted  to  enter  the  priesthood.  But  his 
attainments  were  of  such  superior  order  that  the  arch- 
bishop of  Chalons-sur-Marne  waived  this  obligation, 
and  Jabineau  was  consecrated  a priest.  He  then  be- 
came rector  at  the  College  of  Yitry.  But  he  soon  ex- 
changed the  rostrum  for  the  pulpit,  where,  on  account 
of  his  liberal  views,  he  was  several  times  interdicted. 
In  1768  he  entered  the  lawyer’s  profession,  and  during 
the  Revolution  wrote  a number  of  vehement  articles 
against  the  French  clergy  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church, 
lie  died  in  July,  1792,  shortly  before  the  publication  of 
the  decree  of  the  National  Assembly  against  priests 
(Aug.  26,  1792).  The  most  important  of  his  writings- 
are,  Competence,  de  la  puissance  temporelle  relaticement 
a V erection  et  a la  suppression  des  sieyes  episcopaux  (Par. 
1760,  8 vo;  1790,  and  often): — Exposition  des  principes 
de  lafoi  Catholique  sur  TEylise,  recueillie  des  instructions 
familieres  de  M.  Jab  . . . (published  shortly  after  his 
death,  Par.  1792,  8vo).  See  Iloefer,  Nour.  Bioy.  Gene- 
rale,  xxvi,  142.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jablonski,  Daniel  Ernst,  a distinguished  Ger- 
man theologian,  was  born  at  a little  village  near  Dant- 
zic  Nov.  26,  1660.  The  name  of  his  father,  a preacher, 
was  originally  Figulus,  but  he  in  after  life  exchanged  it 
for  Jablonski,  deriving  the  name  from  that  of  his  na- 
tive place,  Jabltinka,  a small  village  in  Silesia.  Young 
Jablonski  was  educated  at  the  gymnasium  of  Lyssa,  in 
| Prussian  Poland,  and  at  the  University  of  Frankfort  on 
I the  Oder  (now  constituting  the  Berlin  University), 

[ where  he  applied  himself  to  literature  and  philosophy, 
but  more  especially  to  theology  and  the  Oriental  lan- 
I guages.  In  1680  he  visited  the  universities  and  libra- 
ries of  Holland  and  England,  and  spent  considerable 
time  at  Oxford.  On  his  return  in  1683  he  was  appoint- 
ed preacher  at  one  of  the  reformed  churches  of  Magde- 
burg, which  place  he  left  two  years  later  in  order  to  as- 
sume the  rectorship  of  the  gymnasium  at  Lyssa.  In 
1690  he  was  made  court  preacher  at  Ivbnigsberg,  and 
in  1693  his  fame  procured  him  the  place  of  preacher  to 
the  king  at  Berlin.  But  still  other  honorable  otflees 
awaited  him.  Thus,  in  1718,  he  was  made  a member  of 
the  Consistory,  in  1729  a Church  councillor,  and  in  1733 
he  was  elected  president  of  the  Royal  Academy  of  Sci- 
ences at  Berlin.  At  the  request  of  the  king,  Frederick 
I,  he  labored  earnestly,  but  unsuccessfully,  to  accomplish 
a union  of  the  different  Protestant  churches.  lie  died 
at  Berlin  May  25,  1741.  The  greater  part  of  his  life 
had  been  devoted  to  severe  study,  and  he  was  eminently 
successful  as  a preacher.  l)r.  Hagenbaeh  (Hurst’s  transl. 
of  Ch.  Hist,  of  18th  and  19 th  Cent,  i,  410,  412)  says  that 
Jablonski  was  a bishop  among  the  Moravians  (1698),  and 
even  was  “the  eldest  of  the  Moravian  bishops,”  and 
that  he  consecrated  both  David  Nitschmann  (q.  v.l  and 


724 


JABNEII 


JABLONSKI 

count  Zinzendorf  for  the  episcopal  office.  At  the  jn- 
stance  of  the  queen,  he  was  honored  as  early  as  170G 
with  the  degree  of  doctor  of  divinity.  Jablonski  trans- 
lated into  Latin  the  eight  discourses  of  Richard  Bentley 
against  Atheism,  the  treatise  of  Joseph  Woodward  on 
the  religious  societies  of  London,  and  that  of  Burnet  on 
predestination  and  grace ; but  he  is  especially  celebrated 
by  an  edition  of  the  Hebrew  Bible,  with  notes  and  an 
introduction,  published  under  the  title  of  Biblia  Ilebra- 
ica  cum  notis  J Zebra  ids  (Berlin,  1099,  2 vols.  4to;  2d  ed. 
1712,  12mo).  The  preface  has  since  been  printed  in 
other  editions  of  the  Hebrew  Bible.  Both  editions  have 
a list,  by  Lensden,  of  2294  select  verses,  in  which  all  the 
words  to  be  found  in  the  Bible  are  contained.  He  also 
published  an  edition  of  the  Talmud,  and  wrote  a num- 
ber of  religious  works,  the  most  important  of  which  is 
Christliche  Predigten  (Berlin,  1716,  etc.,  10  parts,  4to). 
Many  of  Jablonski’s  writings  bear  on  the  state  of  the 
Church  in  Poland.  One  of  the  roost  able  of  them  is 
the  J/isforia  Consensus  Sendomiriensis  inter  evangelicos 
refjni  Polonies  et  Lithuania  (Berlin,  1731, 4to),  etc.  See 
Ersch  h.  Gruber,  A llg.  Ena/k.  s.  v. ; Jloefer ,Nom\Biog. 
Gen.  xxvi,  145;  Kitto,  Bilil.  Cyclop,  s.  v.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jablonski,  Paul  Ernst,  a distinguished  German 
theologian  and  philologist,  and  son  of  the  former  Ja- 
blonski, was  born  at  Berlin  in  1693.  He  was  educated 
at  the  University  of  Frankfort  on  the  Oder,  where  he 
acquired  such  great  proficiency  in  the  Coptic  as  well  as 
other  Oriental  languages  that  the  government  of  Prus- 
sia sent  the  young  man  of  twenty-one  years,  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  king  (in  1714),  to  visit  the  principal  libra- 
ries and  high  schools  of  Europe,  to  perfect  himself  in 
his  knowledge  of  the  Oriental  tongues,  and  decipher  Cop- 
tic and  other  MSS.  For  this  purpose  lie  visited  the 
universities  of  Oxford,  Leyden,  and  Paris.  After  his 
return  home  he  entered  the  ministry,  and  was  appointed 
pastor  at  Liebenberg  in  1720.  He,  however,  soon  found 
that  his  place  was  in  the  rostrum  rather  than  in  the 
pulpit,  and  in  1721  accepted  the  professorship  of  philos- 
ophy in  his  alma  mater.  In  1722  he  was  honored  with 
the  appointment  of  professor  of  theology,  and  shortly 
after  was  elected  a member  of  the  Royal  Academy  of 
Berlin.  lie  died  December  14,  1557.  Jablonski  was 
one  of  the  most  learned  of  the  many  who  have  endeav- 
ored to  throw  light  on  the  language,  literature,  and  an- 
tiquities of  the  Egyptians.  His  Egyptian  Glossary, 
which  makes  the  first,  volume  of  the  Opuscula  qnibus 
lingua  et  antiquit  as  yEgyptiorum , etc.,  published  by  J.  S. 
te  Water  (Leyden,  1804-10,3  vols.  8vo),  is  pronounced  by 
Quatremere  the  most  complete  work  in  that  department. 
Another  work  of  great  value  in  this  department,  and 
certainly  one  of  the  best  productions  of  Jablonski,  is  the 
Pantheon  yEgyptiorum  sive  de  diis  eorum  commenturius , 
mm  prolegomenis  de  religiom  et  (heologia  x. Egyptiorum 
(Berlin,  1750-52,  3 vols.  8vo).  The  other  works  of  es- 
pial value,  and  of  interest  to  our  readers,  are,  Disquisi- 
tio  de  Lingua  Lycaonica  (Berlin,  1714,  4to;  2d  edition, 
Utrecht,  1724),  an  attempt  to  prove  that  the  language 
ot  Lycaonia,  mentioned  in  Acts  xiv,  11,  bore  no  relation 
to  Greek: — Exercitatio  historico-theologica  de  Xestoria- 
nimo,  etc.  (Berlin,  1724,  8 vo;  German  by  Immermann, 
Magdeburg,  1752, 4 to);  this  work,  intended  as  a defence 
of  Nestoriauism,  excited  great  controversy  among  the 
German  theologians: — Remphan,  yEgyptiorum  Beus , ah 
Israelite  deserto  ciiltus  (Franefort  ad  Oder,  1735,  4 to) : 
—Dissert,  exeg.-histor.  de  Serapi  parabolico , ad  Matt. 
a-uV,  31  et.  32  (Franefort  ad  Oder,  1736,  4to)  :—De  ulti- 
mis  Pauli  apostoli  labor ibus  a beato  Luca  pratermissis 
(Berl.  1746,  4to) : — De  Memnone  G riccorum  et  xEgyptio- 
rum,  huj usque  celeberrima  in  Thebaule  stadia,  Syntag- 
mata III  (Franefort  ad  Oder,  1753,  4 to)  i— Institutions 
historic  Christians  antiquioris  (Franefort  ad  < )der,  1753, 
8vo) : — Institutions  hist.  Christiams  recentioris  (Francf. 
1756, 8 vo) ; the  two  latter  works  were  published  togeth- 
er under  the  title  Inst.  Hist.  Christiana:  (Franefort  ad 
Oder,  1766, 1767,2  vols.  8vo;  revised  and  augmented  bv 
K.  A.  Schulze,  id.  1783.  1784.  2 vols.  8vo;  3d  vol.  by  E. 


H.  D.  Stosch,  containing  the  history  of  tne  18th  centu- 
ry, idem.  1767,  8vo;  revised  and  completed  by  A.  P.  G. 
Schick edanz,  id.  1786,  8vo).  See  Ersch  u.  Gruber,  A lly. 
Encyklop.;  Hoefer.  Nouv.  Riog.  Generate,  xxvi,  146  sq. ; 
Kitto,  Cyclop,  of  Bib.  Lit.  s.  v. ; Ilerzog,  Real-Encyklo- 
padie,  s.  v.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jab'neel  (Hebrew  YabneeV , built  by  God; 

Sept.  T aj3vi)\,  but  ’I aj3ii]\  in  Josh,  xix,  33),  the  name 
of  two  places. 

1.  A town  on  the  northern  boundary  of  Judah,  be- 
tween Mount  Baalah  and  the  Mediterranean  (Josh,  xv, 
II);  probably  the  same  elsewhere  (2  Chron.  xxvi,  6) 
called  Jabxeh  (q.  v.)  or  J amnia  (1  Macc.  iv,  15,  etc.). 

2.  A city  on  the  border  of  Naphtali,  mentioned  be- 
tween Nekeb  and  Lakum  (Josh,  xix,  33).  Schwarz 
(Palest,  p.  181,  182)  affirms  that  the  later  name  of  Jab- 
neel  was  Kefr  Yamah,  “the  village  by  the  sea,”  and  on 
Talmudical  grounds  (comp.  Reland's  Puleest.  p.  545,  716) 
locates  it  on  the  southern  shore  of  Lake  Merom,  and 
thinks  it  identical  with  the  Jamnia  or  Jamnith  men- 
tioned by  Josephus  as  lying  in  this  section  of  Upper 
Galilee  (T dpvia,  Life,  37 ; ’lapviS,  War,  ii,  20,  6). 
This  is  not  improbable,  as  the  boundary-line  here  de- 
scribed appears  to  have  extended  from  the  northern 
limit  of  Palestine  along  the  eastern  bounds  of  Naphtali 
to  the  Jordan  proper.  It  is  perhaps  the  village  Ja'uneh , 
visited  by  Dr.  Robinson,  on  the  declivity  of  the  western 
mountain  south  of  Lake  Huleh,with  a wady  containing 
a small  stream  on  the  south  of  the  village,  and  a few 
ruins  of  the  Jewish  type  {Later  Researches,  p.  3G1, 3G2). 

Jab'neh  (Heb..l'«ineA',  a building;  Hama- 

ker,  Miscell.  Phcen.  p.  256,  compares  the  Arabic  Yubnay ; 
Sept.  'I a(3ijg  v.  r.  ’lafivi}  and  ’lafitic,  Vulg.  Jabnia),  a 
Philistine  town  near  the  Mediterranean,  between  Joppa 
and  Ashdod,  whose  wall  king  Uzziah  demolished  (2 
Chron.  xxvi,  6).  It  is  probably  this  place  whose  name 
many  of  the  copies  of  the  Sept,  insert  in  Josh,  xv,  56 
(lepvat,  ’la/tvai,  ’le/natS,  Cod.Yat.  repvd).  In  later 
times  (Josephus,  War,  i,  7,  7 ; Strabo,  xvi,  759;  Pliny, 
v,  14),  under  the  name  of  Jamnia  (’ia/nda,  1 Macc.  iv, 
15;  ’layveia,  1 Macc.  v,  58;  x,  69;  2 Macc.  xii,  8),  it 
was  inhabited  by  Jews  as  well  as  Gentiles  (Philo,  Opp. 
ii,  575).  According  to  Josephus  (Ant.  xii,  8,  6),  Gor- 
gias  was  governor  of  it;  but  the  text  of  the  Maccabees 
(2  Macc.  xii,  32)  has  Idumiea.  At  this  time  there  was 
a harbor  on  the  coast  (see  Ptol.  v,  16,  2),  to  which,  and 
the  vessels  lying  there,  Judas  set  fire,  and  the  confla- 
gration was  seen  at  Jerusalem,  a distance  of  about 
twenty-five  miles  (2  Macc.  xii,  9).  The  harbor  is  also 
mentioned  by  Pliny,  who,  in  consequence,  speaks  of  the 
town  as  double — duee  Janmes  (see  Reland,  p.823).  Like 
Ascalon  and  Gaza,  the  harbor  bore  the  title  of  MajumaS, 
perhaps  a Coptic  word,  meaning  the  “ place  on  the  sea” 
(Kenriek,  Phcenida,  p.  27,  29).  Pompey  took  the  place 
from  the  Jews  and  joined  it  to  the  province  of  Syria 
(Josephus,  TUar,  i,  7,  7).  Its  distance  from  Jerusalem 
was  240  stadia  (2  Macc.  xii,  7),  from  Diospolis  twelve 
Roman  miles  (I tin.  Anton.'),  from  Ascalon  200  stadia 
(Strabo,  xvi,  759).  At  the  time  of  the  fall  of  Jerusa- 
lem, Jabneh  was  one  of  the  most  populous  places  of  Ju- 
daea, and  contained  a Jewish  school  of  great  fame,  whose 
learned  doctors  are  often  mentioned  in  the  Talmud 
(Mislina,  Rosh  Hasshana,  iv,  I ; Sanhedr.  xi,  4 ; comp. 
Otlio,  Lex.  Rabb.  p.  285  sq. ; Sperbacli,  Diss.  de  Acade- 
mia Jabhnensi  ejnsque  rcctoribus,  Yiteb.  1740;  Lightfoot, 
Academ.Jabn.  hist  or.,  in  his  Opp.  ii,  87  sq.).  The  Jews 
called  this  school  their  Sanhedrim,  though  it  only  pos- 
sessed a faint  shadow  of  the  authority  of  that  great 
council  (Milman,  History  of  the  Jeics , iii,  95,  2d  edit.; 
Lightfoot,  ii,  141-143).  In  this  holy  city,  according  to 
an  early  Jewish  tradition,  was  buried  the  great  Gama- 
liel. His  tomb  was  visited  by  Parchi  in  the  14th  cen- 
tury (Zunz,  in  Asher’s  Benj.  of  Tudela,  ii,  439,  440;  also 
98).  In  the  time  of  Eusebius,  however,  it  had  dwindled 
to  a small  place  (iroXixvij),  merely  requiring  casual 
mention  (Onomasticon,  s.  v.  ’lapvda).  In  the  6th  cen- 


JABRUDA 


725 


JACKAL 


tun',  under  Justinian,  it  became  the  seat  of  a Christian 
bishop  (Epiphanius,  adr.  liver,  lib.  ii,  730).  Under  the 
Crusaders,  who  thought  it  to  be  the  site  of  (lath,  and 
who  built  a fortress  in  it,  it  bore  the  corrupted  name  of 
Jbelin,  and  gave  a title  to  a line  of  counts,  one  of  whom, 
Jean  d’lbelin,  about  1250,  restored  to  efficiency  the  fa- 
mous code  of  the  “Assises  de  Jerusalem”  (Gibbon,  chap. 
Iviii  ad  fin.).  For  the  history  in  full,  see  Reland,  I 'ti- 
ke st.  p.  822 ; Rosenmiiller,  A Iterth.  ii,  2,  p.  36G ; Raumer, 
Puliist.  p.  200 ; comp.  Thomson,  /,.  and  B.  ii,  312  sq. 

The  name  Yebna  is  still  borne  by  a little  village 
among  the  ruins  of  the  ancient  site,  upon  a small  emi- 
nence on  the  western  side  of  wady  Rubin,  about  one 
hour  from  the  sea  (Irby  and  Mangles,  p.  182;  Corresp. 
(FOrient,  v,  p.  373,  374).  According  to  Scholz  (Reisen, 
p.  146),  there  are  here  the  ruins  of  a former  church,  af- 
terwards a mosque;  also,  nearer  the  sea,  the  ruins  of  a 
Roman  bridge  over  the  wady,  with  high  arches,  built 
of  very  large  stones.  On  the  eastern  side  of  the  wady, 
on  a small  eminence,  is  the  tomb  of  Rubin  (Reuben), 
the  son  of  Jacob,  from  whom  the  wady  takes  its  name ; 
it  is  mentioned  by  Mejr  ed-Din  (1495)  as  having  been 
formerly  a noted  place  of  pilgrimage  for  Moslems,  as  it 
still  is  in  some  degree  ( Fundgr, . des  Orients,  ii,  138).  It 
is  about  eleven  miles  south  of  Jaffa,  seven  from  Ramleh, 
and  four  from  Akir  (Ekrou).  (See  Robinson’s  Research- 
es, iii,  22;  Ritter,  Erdk.  xvi,  125.)  It  probably  occu- 
pies its  ancient  site,  for  some  remains  of  old  buildings 
are  to  be  seen,  possibly  relics  of  the  fortress  which  the 
Crusaders  built  there  (Porter,  Handbook,  p.  274). 

This  position  likewise  corresponds  with  that  of  Jab- 
neel  (Josh,  xv,  1 1)  on  the  western  end  of  the  northern 
boundary  of  Judah  (so  Schwarz,  Palestine,  p.  98;  Keil, 
Comment,  ad  loc.),  which'' is  placed  by  Eusebius  and 
Jerome  ( Onomast . s.  v.  Jamnoel)  between  Ashdod  and 
Diospolis.  There  is  no  sign  of  its  ever  having  been 
occupied  by  Judah.  Josephus  (.l7g.  v,  1,  22)  correctly 
attributes  it  to  the  Danites.  There  was  a constant 
struggle  going  on  between  that  tribe  and  the  Philistines 
for  the  possession  of  all  the  places  in  the  lowland  plain 
[see  Dan],  and  it  is  not  surprising  that  the  next  time 
we  meet  with  Jabneel  it  should  be  in  the  hands  of  the 
latter  (2  Chron.  xxvi,  6). 

Jabruda  ('lajSpovdd),  a city  of  Palestine  mention- 
ed by  Ptolemy  (v,  15),  and  as  an  episcopal  city  by  St. 
Paulo  ( Geogr . Suer.  p.  294) ; now  Yebrud,  a village,  but 
still  the  seat  of  a bishop;  rather  more  than  an  hour  to 
the  west  of  the  great  caravan  road  from  Damascus  to 
Homs,  nearly  midway  between  these  two  cities  (Porter, 
Damascus,  i,  360). — Van  de  Velde,  Memoir,  p.  323 ; Rob- 
inson, Later  Researches,  p.  556. 

Ja'chan  (Ileb.  Yukon',  mourner;  Sept.  ’Ia- 

Xav  v.  r.  Twayap),  one  of  seven  chief  Gadite  “broth- 
ers” resideut  in  Bashan  (1  Chron.  v,  13).  B.C.  between 
1093  and  782.  See  also  Akax. 

Ja'chin  (llcb.  Yokin',  firm ; Sept.  ToryuV, 
Tayip),  the  name  of  three  men  and  also  of  a pillar. 

1.  The  fourth  named  of  the  sons  of  Simeon  (Gen. 
xlvi,  10  ; Exod.  vi,  15),  called  Jarib  in  1 Chron.  iv,  24. 
His  descendants  are  called  Jaciiinites  (Heb.  Yakini', 

Sept.  Tayipi,  Numb,  xxvi,  12).  B.C.  1856. 

2.  The  head  of  the  twenty-first  “course”  of  priests  as 
arranged  by  David  (l  Chron.  xxiv,  17).  B.C.  1014. 

3.  One  of  the  priests  that  returned  to  Jerusalem  after 
the  Exile  (l  Chron.  ix,  10;  Neh.  xi,  10).  B.C.  536. 

4.  Jaciun  (Sept,  in  Kings  ’I a\ovg,  Alex.  ’layoiV; 
but  in  Chron.  KaropOioaig  in  both  MSS. ; Josephus  Ta- 
yip  ; Vulg.  Jackin,  Jachim ) and  Boaz  were  the  names 
of  two  columns  (the  former  on  the  right  hand  [south], 
the  latter  on  the  left)  set  up  (according  to  Phoenician 
style : compare  Menander  in  Josephus,  .1  nt.  viii,  5, 3 ; see 
Vatke’s  Bibl.  Theol.  p.  324, 326 ; Movers,  Phbn.  i,  293)  in 
the  porch  (C?X3)  of  Solomon’s  Temple  (1  Kings  vii, 
15-22;  2 Chron.  iii,  17;  comp.  Jer.  Iii,  21),  and  doubt- 
less of  symbolical  import  (Simonis,  Onomast  icon,  p.  430, 


460).  See  Architecture;  Temp i. e.  

Each  was  eighteen  cubits  high  and  twelve  g ■ 

in  circumference,  or  four  in  diameter,  g GpwEp 
They  were  formed  of  brass  (copper  or 
bronze,  perhaps  some,  more  precious  al-  |S 

loy)  four  lingers  in  thickness  (Jer.  Iii,  21).  « _r  ijsipjjjB 
The  capitals  (quadrangular,  Jer.  Iii,  23),  M 2 IfJS 
also  of  brass,  were  five  cubits  high  (1  c.2  1 ffl 

Kings  vii,  16;  Jer.  Iii,  22;  2 Chron.  iii,  .5^  I |W  , 
15).  The  description  of  the  ornaments  "Sc*  jjj  Ju 
(of  the  same  metal,  Jer.  Iii,  22)  of  the  1 1 111 
capitals  (1  Kings  vii,  17  sq. ; compare  2 c | 1 ||| 

Kings  xxv,  17 ; 2 Chron.  ii,  15;  iv,  12;  I 1 
Jer.  Iii,  22)  is  much  confused  and  obscure  I®  ii 
(Ilitzig,  Jerem.  p.  423),  either  on  account  o-|  I j 1 1 
of  the  brevity  or  in  consequence  of  some  SjP-i  | JRj 
corruption  in  the  text,  and  it  is  therefore 

no  wonder  that  antiquarians  (see  Lamy,  

De  Tabern.fad.  p.  1043  sq. ; Meyer,  Blatt.f.hoh.  Warh. 
i,  13  sq. ; ix,  31  sq. ; Griinersen,  in  the  Stuttgart.  Kunstb. 
1831,  No.  77  sq. ; Keil,  Tempel  Solomo's,  p.  95  sq. ; 
Schnaase,  Gesch.  der  bild.  Kunste,  i,  245,  280)  and  archi- 
tects (Schmidt,  Biblic.  Mat  hem.  p.  253  sq.)  should  have 
varied  greatly  in  their  views  and  reconstructions  on  this 
point  (compare  Lamy,  Tab.  18;  Scheuclizer,  Phys.  sacr. 
iii,  tab.  443  sq. ; see  Meyer,  ut  sup).  It  is  clear,  how- 
ever, that  the  capitals  were  swelling  at  the  top,  and  lilv- 
shaped  (I  Kings  vii,  18,  20;  comp.  Josephus,  Ant.  viii, 
3,  4).  (For  discussions  of  various  points  connected  with 
the  subject,  see  Rosenmiiller  on  Jer.  Iii,  22 ; Meyer’s  Bi- 
belt lent.  p.  257;  Jalin,  iii,  261;  Movers,  Chron.  p.  253; 
Hirt,  Gesch.  d.  Baukunst,  tab.  3,  fig.  20;  Bbttcher,  I' rob. 
cdttcst.  Sehriftausl.  p.  335;  Keil,  Comment,  on  I Kings 
vi,  15.  Monographs  on  the  subject  have  been  written 
by  J.  G.  Micliaelis,  Frankft.  1733;  Unger,  Lugd.  1733; 
and  Kilchberger,  Berl.  1783;  especially  31.  Plcsken,  De 
columnis  ceneis,  Viteb.  1719;  also  in  Ugolini  Thesaurus, 
x;  compare  the  treatises  of  Lightfoot,  Keil,  Ilirt,  and 
Bardwell  on  Solomon's  Temple.) — Winer,  i,  520.  See 
Boaz;  Pillar. 

Jachim,  Abraiiam.  See  Lewi  ( Sabbauii ). 

Ja'chinite  (Numb,  xxvi,  12).  See  Jachin  1. 

J aciiltll  (bdtcti’j'oc,  the  hyacinth),  properly  a flower 
of  a deep  purple  or  reddish  blue  (so  iiaicivSrn’oc,  hyacin- 
thine,  i.  e.  hyacinth-colored,  “of  jacinth,”  Rev.  ix,  17); 
hence  a precious  stone  of  like  color  (Rev.  xxi,  20).  Con- 
siderable doubt  prevails  as  to  the  real  mineral  thus  des- 
ignated, if  indeed  any  particular  stone  be  intended,  and 
not  rather  every  purplish  or  azure  gem.  According  to 
Dr.  Moore  (Anc.  Mineralogy,  p.  169),  it  is  most  nearly 
related  to  the  zircon  of  modern  mineralogists.  The 
hyacinth  or  jacinth  stone  was  of  various  colors,  from 
white  or  pale  green  to  purple-red.  Pliny  speaks  of  it 
as  shining  with  a golden  color,  and  in  much  favor  as  an 
amulet  or  charm  against  the  plague  (Hist.  Xat.  xxxvii, 
9).  It  occurs  in  the  Sept,  for  UHP1,  Exod.  xxv,  5 ; also 
for  r3IPl,  Exod.  xxvi,  4;  but  is  usually  supposed  to 
represent  the  Heb.  “figure”  (q.  v.)  (Rosenmiiller, 
Bibl.  Alterthunisk.  IV,  i,  p.  38).  See  Gem. 

Jackal,  the  Persic  shaal,  Turkish  joked,  eanis  au- 
reus of  Linnaeus,  has  been  thought  to  be  denoted  by 
several  Hebrew  words  variously  rendered  in  the  Auth. 
Vers.  See  Fox;  Dragon;  Whelp,  etc.  It  is  a wild 
animal  of  the  canine  family  [sec  Wole;  Dog],  which 
in  Persia,  Armenia,  likewise  Arabia  (Niebuhr,  Beschr, 
166),  and  even  in  Syria  (Russel,  .Aleppo,  ii,  61)  and  Pal- 
estine (around  Jaffa,  Gaza,  and  in  Galilee,  llasselquist, 
7Var.p.271;  among  the  hills  of  Judaea,  Robinson,  ii,  432; 
iii,  188),  is  frequently  met  rvitb,  attaining  a large  size 
(three  and  a half  feet  in  length),  and  so  closely  resem- 
bling a fox  in  color  and  general  appearance  as  to  be  at 
first  readily  mistaken  for  that  animal.  But  the  jackal 
has  a somewhat  peculiarly  formed  head,  not  greatly  un- 
like that  of  a shepherd's  dog,  about  seven  inches  long, 
with  a very  pointed  muzzle,  aud  yellowish-red  hair, 


JACKAL 


726 


JACKSON 


Eastern  Jackals. 


which  resembles  that  of  the  wolf.  The  color  of  the 
body  is  vellowish-gray  above,  whitish  below;  the  back 
anti  sides  sometimes  of  mixed  gray  and  black ; the 
shoulders,  thighs,  and  legs  uniformly  tawny-yellow. 
The  tail  is  round,  projecting,  and  reaching  hardly  to 
the  heel.  The  eyes  are  large,  with  a round  pupil.  It 
is  gregarious  in  its  habits,  hunting  in  packs  (generally 
preying  upon  smaller  animals  and  poultry,  but  frequent- 
ly attacking  the  larger  quadrupeds),  the  pest  of  the 
countries  where  it  is  found.  It  burrows  in  the  earth, 
preferring  forests  and  caverns,  where  it  usually  lies  hid 
during  the  daytime;  but  at  night  it  issues  in  companies 
(sometimes  very  large)  on  predatory  incursions  among 
the  villages,  and  often  the  immediate  vicinity  of  towns. 
Its  favorite  food  is  fowls  or  carrion,  and  it  will  break 
into  graves  to  make  a meal  upon  the  corpse,  and  even 
carry  off  and  devour  young  children  if  found  unprotect- 
ed. In  a wild  state,  this  animal  has  an  intolerably  of- 
fensive odor.  Colonel  Hamilton  Smith,  in  his  Canidce, 
states  that  “jackals  form  a group  of  crepuscular  and 
nocturnal  canines,  never  voluntarily  abroad  before  dark, 
and  then  hunting  for  prey  during  the  whole  night;  en- 
tering the  streets  of  towns  to  seek  for  offals,  robbing  the 
hen-roosts,  entering  out-houses,  examining  doors  and 
windows,  feasting  upon  all  dressed  vegetables  and  ill- 
secured  provisions,  devouring  all  the  carrion  they  find 
exposed,  and  digging  their  way  into  sepulchres  that  are 
not  carefully  protected  against  their  activity  and  vora- 
ciousness; and  in  the  fruit  season,  in  common  with 
foxes,  seeking  the  vineyards,  and  fattening  upon  grapes. 
They  congregate  in  great  numbers,  sometimes  as  many 
as  two  hundred  being  found  together,  and  they  howl  so 
incessantly  that  the  annoyance  of  their  voices  is  the 
theme  of  numerous  apologues  and  tales  in  the  literature 
of  Asia.  This  cry  is  a melancholy  sound,  beginning 
the  instant  the  sun  sets,  and  never  ceasing  till  after  it 
has  arisen.  The  voice  is  uttered  and  responded  to  by 
all  within  hearing,  in  an  accent  of  every  possible  tone, 
from  a short,  hungry  yelp  to  a prolonged  crescendo  cry, 
rising  octave  above  octave  in  the  shrillness,  and  mingled 
with  dismal  winnings,  as  of  a human  being  in  distress.” 
I heir  nightly  howl  lias  a peculiar  wailing  tone  (Russel, 
A leppo,  p.  62 ; Russeggor,  Seise,  iii,  125),  greatly  resem- 
bling the  cry  of  a child.  “These  sinister,  guilty,  wroe- 
begone  brutes,  when  pressed  with  hunger,  gather  in 
gangs  among  the  graves,  and  veil  in  rage,  and  fight  like 
fiends  over  their  midnight  orgies;  but  on  the  battle- 


field is  their  great  carnival” 
(Thomson,  Land  and  Book , i, 
134).  (See,  generally,  Bo- 
chart,  Ilieroz.  ii,  180  sq.,  who 
maintains  that  the  jackal  was 
designated  among  the  Greeks 
and  Romans  by  the  name 
jmc,  $W>£,  Ivampfer,  Amoen. 
ii,  406  sq. ; Gmelin,  Jieise.  ii, 
81  sq.  Gfildenstadt,  in  Xov. 
comment,  acad.  Petropol.  xx, 
449  sq. ; Oedmann,  S a mini,  ii, 
18  sq.) 

This  animal  is  very  gener- 
ally regarded  as  denoted  by 
the  name  "'it  (?,  the  howler,  in 
the  plural,  iyim',  “ wild 
beasts  of  the  islands”),  repre- 
sented as  inhabiting  deserts 
(Isa.  xiii,  22;  xxxiv,  14;  Jer. 
xl,  39).  It  is  more  usually 
recognised  as  the  shu- 

aV , of  Scripture  (aAwr?/£, 
“fox”),  especially  in  the  in- 
stance of  Samson’s  exploit 
(Jiulg.  xv,  4 ; compare  Rosen- 
m filler,  A Iterthtimsk.  IV,  ii, 
15G  sq.,  and  Scholia  ad  Jndi- 
ces,  p.  327).  See  Fox.  We 
have,  however,  no  proof  that  shual'  denotes  exclusive- 
ly the  fox,  and  that  iyim',  and  Solomon’s  little  foxes, 
refer  solely  to  jackals;  particularly  as  these  animals 
were,  if  really  known,  not  abundant  in  Western  Asia, 
even  during  the  first  century  of  the  Roman  empire;  for 
they  are  but  little  noticed  by  the  Greek  writers  and 
sportsmen  who  resided  where  now  they  are  heard  and 
seen  every  evening;  these  authorities  offering  no  re- 
mark on  the  most  prominent  characteristic  of  the  spe- 
cies, namely,  the  chorus  of  bowlings  lasting  all  night — 
a habit  so  intolerable  that  it  is  the  invariable  theme  of 
all  the  Shemitic  writers  since  the  Ilegira  whenever  they 
mention  the  jackal.  We  may  therefore  infer  that  shual', 
if  a general  denomination,  and  that  iyim',  if  the  ctymol- 
ogy  be  just,  is  derived  from  howling  or  barking,  and 
may  designate  the  jackal,  though  more  probably  it  in- 
cludes also  those  wild  Canidte  which  have  a similar 
habit.  Indeed,  as  Ehrenberg  (Icon,  et  descript.  mam- 
mal. dec.  2)  has  remarked,  it  is  likely  that  travellers 
have  usually  confounded  the  jackal  with  the  coins  Syr- 
iacus,  while  a thorough  treatise  on  the  cants  aureus  is 
still  a desideratum  (see  Wood,  Bible  Animals,  p.  5G). 

There  is  also  another  term  in  the  O.  T.,  (tan,  in 
plural  by  Chaldaism,  )“l!r,  tannin’,  regarded  by  others 
as  the  singular,  whence  a true  plur.  E":“Fl,  tanninim', 
“dragons”),  described  as  a wild  animal  inhabiting  des- 
erts, and  uttering  a plaintive  cnr  (dob  xxx,  29;  Mic.  i, 
8);  often  joined  (in  poetic  parallelism)  with  T2, 

“ daughter  of  the  ostrich,”  and  E^X,  iyim ’ (Isa.  xiii, 
22;  xxxiv,  13;  xliii,  20).  The  Syriac  understands  the 
jackal,  and  the  Arabic  the  wo//’ (comp.  Pococke,  Comm, 
in  Mic.  ad  loe. ; Schnurrer,  Diss.philol,  p.  323  sq.).  It  is 
possibly  no  more  than  the  cams  Syriacits  after  all.  Bo- 
chart  (Ilieroz.  iii,  222  sq.)  interprets  it  of  an  enormous 
kind  of  serpent.  See  Dragon. 

Jackson,  Arthur,  an  English  Nonconformist  di- 
vine, was  born  in  Suffolk  in  1593.  lie  studied  at  Trin- 
ity College,  Cambridge,  became  lecturer,  and  afterwards 
minister  of  St. Michael's,  Wood  Street,  London.  Subse- 
quently he  received  the  living  of  St.  Faith’s,  but  was 
ejected  for  nonconformity  in  1G62,  and  died  in  1666. 
His  annotations  are  still  esteemed.  His  writings  are 
principally  in  the  exegetical  department,  and  arc  gener- 
ally considered  valuable  even  iuour  day.  Of  these  the 
best,  are,  A Help  for  the  understanding  of  the  Holy 
Scripture  (Camb.  1643,  3 vols.  4to)  : — A niiotations  on 


JACKSON 


727 


JACKSON 


the  whole  Book  of  Isaiah  (London,  1682, 4 to). — Darling, 
Cyclop . Bibliog.  s.  v.;  Allibone,  Diet,  of  Authors,  s.  v. 

Jackson,  Cyril,  a celebrated  English  divine,  was 
born  in  1742.  He  was  educated  at  Oxford  University, 
and,  after  holding  several  benefices,  was  appointed  dean 
of  Christ  Church,  Oxford,  which  position  he  held  until 
the  time  of  his  death,  April  9, 1819. 

Jackson,  James  B.,  a minister  of  the  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church  South,  was  born  and  reared  in  Clarke 
County,  Ga.  The  date  of  his  birth  is  not  known  to 
us,  neither  are  we  aware  of  the  date  of  his  conversion, 
though  it  appears,  front  the  minutes  of  the  Florida  Con- 
ference, of  which  he  was  a member,  that  it  must  have 
been  about  the  age  of  fourteen.  lie  was  honored  by  his 
associates  in  the  ministry  as  a man  of  superior  abilities, 
and  held  some  of  the  best  appointments  in  the  Florida 
Conference.  He  was  also  professor  in  Andrew  Female 
College  for  a number  of  years.  At  the  time  of  his  death, 
Feb.  18, 1868,  he  was  presiding  elder  of  Jacksonville  Dis- 
trict. In  all,  he  spent  about  thirty  years  in  the  minis- 
try. See  M mutes  of  A tin.  Conf.  J/.  E.  Ch.  South,  iii,  227. 

Jackson,  John,  an  English  Arian  divine  and 
great  Hebraist  of  the  last  century,  was  born  at  Lensev, 
in  Yorkshire,  in  1686.  lie  studied  at  Doncaster  School 
and  at  Jesus  College,  Cambridge,  where  he  took  his  bach- 
elor’s degree,  but  could  not  obtain  that  of  master  of  arts 
on  account  of  his  Arian  principles.  In  1712  the  corpo- 
ration of  Doncaster  presented  him  with  the  rectory  of 
Rossington,  but  the  chancellor  of  the  duchy  of  Lancas- 
ter having  made  him  confrater  of  Wigston’s  Hospital, 
in  Leicester,  a position  which  required  no  subscription 
of  him,  he  removed  to  the  hospital,  and  in  1729  suc- 
ceeded to  its  mastership.  He  died  in  1763.  Jackson 
carried  on  a lively  controversy  with  several  of  England’s 
most  distinguished  orthodox  writers  of  divinity,  more 
especially  with  bishop  Warburton  (q.  v.).  He  also  wrote 
a large  number  of  works,  the  principal  of  which  are, 
The  Duty  of  a Christian  set  forth  anil  explained  in  sev- 
eral practical  Discourses,  being  an  Exposition  of  the 
Lord's  Prayer,  etc.  (Loud.  1728,  12mo) : — The  Existence 
and  Unity  of  God  proved  from  his  Nature  and  Attri- 
butes, being  a Vindication  of  Dr.  Clarke's  Demonstration 
of  the  Being  and  Attributes  of  God,  etc.  (London,  1734, 
8vo): — The  Belief  of  a future  State  proved  to  be  a fun- 
damental A rticle  of  the  Religion  of  the  Hebrews,  and 
held  by  the  Philosophers,  etc.  (Loud,  1745,  8vo) : — Chro- 
nological Antiquities,  etc.,  for  the  Space  office  thousand 
Years  (Lond.  1752, 3 vols.  4to),  and  many  other  contro- 
versial pamphlets.  See  Dr.  Sutton,  Memoirs  of  the  Life 
and  Writings  of  J.  J.,  etc.  (Lond.  1764,  8vo)  ; Chalmers, 
Gen.  Biog.  Dictionary,  s.  v. ; Hook,  Eccles.  Blog.  s.  v. ; 
Hoefer,  Xour.  Biog.  Generale,  xxv,  149 ; Allibone,  Diet, 
of  Authors,  s.  v. ; Gorton,  Biog.  Diet.  s.  v. 

Jackson,  John  Frelinghuysen.  See  Jack- 
son,  William,  1. 

Jackson,  Samuel,  a Wesleyan  minister,  who 
held  the  highest  offices  in  the  gift  of  the  Wesleyans, 
and  for  many  years  was  one  of  the  greatest  powers  of 
English  Wesleyanism,  was  born  towards  the  close  of 
the  last  century.  He  was  particularly  prominent  in  the 
Sabbath-school  movement.  “ To  him  alone,”  says  a 
writer  in  the  London  Quart.  Rev.  1863,  p.  261,  “must  be 
attributed  the  aivakening  among  them  (the  Wesleyans) 
of  that  religious  jealousy  for  the  younger  members  of 
their  societies  and  congregations,  which  of  late  has  so 
much  elevated  their  system  of  Sunday-school  instruction, 
and  has  thrown  the  hedge  of  a more  direct  ministerial 
oversight  and  training  around  multitudes  of  their  youth, 
who  might  otherwise  have  passed  unguarded  through 
the  perils  that  precede  adult  age.  For  some  years  be- 
fore his  death  concern  for  the  spiritual  welfare  of  the 
young  became  a passion  with  Air.  Jackson ; he  wTote 
and  spoke  of  little  besides.”  As  a preacher,  he  was 
plain  in  language,  masculine  in  sentiment,  ever  abound- 
ing in  simple  but  forcible  illustrations.  The  date  of  his  | 


death  is  not  known  to  us.  His  brother  Thomas,  anoth- 
er celebrated  minister  of  the  Wesleyans,  edited  the  ser- 
mons of  Samuel  Jackson,  and  prefaced  them/ with  a 
memoir  of  the  author  (London,  1863,  8vo). 

Jackson,  Thomas,  D.D.  an  eminent  English  di- 
vine, was  born  at  Widowing,  Durham,  in  1579.  He 
studied  at  Queen’s  College,  Oxford,  and  after  1596  at 
Corpus  Cliristi,  of  which  he  became  vice-president.  He 
was  afterwards  appointed  successively  vicar  of  Newcas- 
tle, president  of  his  college  in  1630,  prebendary  of  Win- 
chester in  1633,  and,  finally,  dean  of  Peterborough  in 
1638.  He  died  in  1640.  Dr.  Thomas  Jackson  enjoyed 
a great  reputation  for  piety  and  learning;  he  was  pro- 
foundly read  in  the  fathers,  and  possessed  great  depth 
of  judgment.  His  works  (commentaries,  among  these 
a valuable  commentary  on  the  Apostles’  Creed,  and  ser- 
mons), which  rank  very  high,  form  a magazine  of  theo- 
logical knowdedge,  and  are  remarkable  also  for  elegance 
and  dignity  of  style.  Southey  places  him  among  the 
very  best  of  English  divines,  anil  George  Herbert  says, 
“ I bless  God  for  the  confirmation  Dr.  Jackson  has  given 
me  in  the  Christian  religion  against  the  Atheist,  Jew, 
and  Socinian,  and  in  the  Protestant  against  Rome.”  A 
new  edition  of  his  works,  with  a copious  index,  was  pub- 
lished in  1844  (Oxford,  12  vols.  8vo).  See  Darling,  Cy- 
clop. Bibliog.  s.  v. ; Biograph.  Britannica , s.  v. ; Fuller, 
Worthies ; Wood,  .4  thence  Oxonienses  (see  Index,  vol.  i) ; 
Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  s.  v. 

Jackson,  William  (l),born  in  1732,  was  one  of 
the  earliest  ministers  of  the  Reformed  (Dutch)  Church 
in  New  Jersey.  lie  began  his  studies  for  the  ministry 
with  the  Rev.  John  Frelinghuysen,  whose  daughter  he 
married  in  1757.  The  church  at  Bergen,  N.  J.,  which 
was  the  first  of  any  denomination  in  the  state,  had  exist- 
ed ninety  years  without  a pastor,  being  unable  to  procure 
one  from  the  mother  country.  In  1753,  in  union  with 
the  Church  on  Staten  Island,  a call  was  made  upon  Air. 
Jackson  which  bound  him  to  go  to  Holland,  complete 
his  studies,  and  obtain  ordination  from  the  Classis  of 
Amsterdam.  These  churches  w'ere  to  pay  him  £100  for 
his  support  while  absent.  Four  years  and  three  months 
elapsed  before  his  return  in  1757,  when  he  assumed  full 
pastoral  charge,  dividing  his  services  equally  between 
the  tw'o  congregations.  These  facts  show  both  the 
tenacity  of  Church  life  and  the  devotion  of  the  people 
to  the  idea  of  a thoroughly  educated  ministry.  The 
Ccetus  and  Conferentic  troubles,  which  had  so  long  rent 
the  churches,  and  which  grew  out  of  this  very  question 
of  an  educated  ministry,  were  finally  adjusted  in  1771, 
through  the  great  exertions  of  Dr.  John  H.  Livingston 
(q.  v.)  and  his  associates,  and  both  Air.  Jackson  and 
these  churches  rejoiced  in  the  consummation.  See  Re- 
fohmed  Dutch  Church.  His  ministry  lasted  thirty- 
two  years  (1757-1789),  when  he  became  insane.  lie 
died  in  1813.  Air.  Jackson’s  literary  and  theological 
attainments  were  attested  by  academie  degrees  confer- 
red by  Yale,  Columbia,  and  Princeton  colleges.  He  was 
celebrated  as  a pidpit  orator,  preaching  in  the  Dutch 
language.  His  voice  was  commanding,  and  his  popu- 
larity was  such  that  “in  Aliddlesex  and  Somerset  coun- 
ties lie  was  estimated  as  a field-preacher  second  only  to 
Whitefield.  On  one  occasion,  at  the  Raritan  church, 
the  assembly  was  so  large  that  he  had  to  leave  the  pul- 
pit and  take  a station  at  the  church  door  to  deliver  his 
sermon,”  and  the  throng  outside  was  greater  than  that 
w’hich  filled  the  building.  His  ministry  was  useful,  ac- 
ceptable, and  crowned  with  great  and  permanent  bless- 
ings. One  of  his  five  sons,  the  Rev.  John  Frelinghuy- 
seu  Jackson,  was  for  many  years  the  pastor  of  the  Re- 
formed Dutch  Church  at  Harlem,  New  York,  where  he 
died  in  1836,  at  the  age  of  sixty-eight  years.  He  was 
a laborious,  faithful,  and  devoted  minister,  and  distin- 
guished for  his  pecuniary  liberality. — B.  C. Taylor’s  An- 
nals of  Classis  and  Township  of  Bergen;  Corwin’s  Man- 
ual of  the  Reformed  Church,  p.  120.  (W.  J.  R.  T.) 

Jackson,  William  (2),  an  English  divine,  broth' 


JACKSON 


728 


JACOB 


or  of  Cyril  Jackson,  born  in  1750,  was  educated  at  West- 
minster School  and  Christ  Church,  Oxford.  He  obtain- 
ed the  degree  of  D.I).  in  1799,  and  became,  after  having 
been  preacher  at  Lincoln’s  Inn,  canon  of  Christ  Church, 
regius  professor  of  (.reck  in  181 1,  and  bishop  of  Oxford, 
lie  died  in  November,  1815.  He  published  some  of  his 
sermons  (1784-1804) . See  Rich,  B ibliotheca  .4  mericana 
Xoi'ct,  i,  317. 

Jackson,  William,  D.D.  (3),  a Congregational 
minister,  was  born  in  Cornwall,  Conn.,  Dec.  14,  1708. 
At  the  age  of  sixteen,  when  about  commencing  his  stud- 
ies preparatory  for  college,  his  mind  became  deeply  im- 
pressed with  religions  truth,  and  he  at  once  decided  to 
devote  his  life  to  the  ministry.  He  entered  Dartmouth 
College  in  1786,  and  graduated  in  1790.  For  a time  he 
taught  a school  in  Wethersfield,  Conn.,  but,  finding  that 
his  services  were  needed  in  the  Church,  he  commenced 
finally  the  study  of  theology  under  Drs.  Spring  and 
Emmons.  In  1793  he  was  licensed  to  preach,  and  he 
performed  ministerial  labors  first  near  liis  home,  and  af- 
terwards in  New  Jersey.  A call  which  had  been  given 
him  by  the  Congregational  Society  at  Dorset,  Vt.,  in 
1793,  when  feeble  health  obliged  him  to  decline,  was  re- 
newed three  years  after,  and  this  time  accepted.  He 
was  ordained  Sept.  27, 1790.  In  1837  he  was  obliged  to 
ask  his  people  for  an  assistant;  and  though  his  task  had 
thus  been  made  easier,  his  health  continued  to  fail  him, 
and  he  died  Oct.  15, 1842.  In  1837  Middlebnry  College, 
of  which  he  had  been  a corporation  member  for  several 
years,  conferred  on  him  the  doctorate  of  divinity.  Dr. 
Jackson  possessed  a mind  of  high  order,  sanctified  by 
earnest  devotion  to  the  interests  of  the  Church.  “Dr. 
Porter,  late  of  Andover,  the  companion  of  his  youth, 
and  particular  friend  in  college,  said  of  him,  ‘ He  is  the 
only  minister  of  his  age  who  has  kept  up  with  the  times.’ 
Ilis  mental  enterprise  and  panting  for  progress  never 
left  him.” — Dr.  J.  Maltby,  in  Sprague,  A nn.  of  the  A mer- 
ican  Pulpit,  ii,  840. 

Ja'cob(lIeb.  Yadkob',  -P supplanter,  from  -p?, 
to  bite  the  heel  [to  which  signification  there  is  allusion 
in  (Jen.  xxv,  26 ; xxvii,  36 ; Ilos.  xii,  3]  ; Sept,  and  N.T. 
’latcojf 3;  Josephus  ’T okw/3o£,  which  latter  is  identical 
with  the  Creek  name  for  “James”),  the  name  of  two 
men  in  the  Bible. 

1.  The  second-bom  of  the  twin  sons  of  Isaac  by  Re- 
bekah  (B.C.  2004).  In  the  following  account  of  his  his- 
tory, we  largely  avail  ourselves  of  the  statements  in  Kit- 
to’s,  Smith’s,  and  Fairbairn’s  dictionaries. 

1.  Ilis  conception  is  stated  to  have  been  supernatural 
(Gen.  xxv,  21  sq.).  Led  by  peculiar  feelings,  Rebekah 
went  to  inquire  of  the  Lord  (as  some  think,  through  the 
intervention  of  Abraham),  and  was  informed  that  she 
was  about  to  become  a mother,  that  her  offspring  should 
he  the  founders  of  two  nations,  and  that  the  elder  should 
serve  the  younger — circumstances  which  ought  to  be 
borne  in  mind  when  a judgment  is  pronounced  on  her 
conduct  in  aiding  .Jacob  to  secure  the  privileges  of  birth- 
right to  the  exclusion  of  his  elder  brother  Esau.  He 
was  born  with  Esau,  when  Isaac  was  59  and  Abraham 
159  years  old,  probably  at  the  well  Lahai-roi. 

As  the  boys  grew,  Jacob  appeared  to  partake  of  the 
gentle,  quiet,  and  retiring  character  of  his  father,  and 
was  accordingly  led  to  prefer  the  tranquil  safety  and 
pleasing  occupations  of  a shepherd’s  life  to  the  bold  and 
daring  enterprises  of  the  hunter,  for  which  Esau  had  an 
irresistible  predilection.  The  latter  was  his  father's  fa- 
vorite, however,  while  Rebekah  evinced  a partiality  for 
Jacob  ((Jen.  xxv,  27,  28). 

That  selfishness,  and  a prudence  which  approached 
to  cunning,  had  a seat  in  the  heart  of  the  youth  Jacob, 
appears  hut  too  plainly  in  his  dealing  with  Esau,  when 
he  exacted  from  a famishing  brother  so  large  a price  for 
a mess  of  pottage  as  the  surrender  of  his  birthright  (Gen. 
xxv,  29-34).  B.C.  cir.  1985.  (Sec  Kitto,  Daily  Bible 
J Ihatt.  ad  loc.) 

The  leaning  which  his  mother  had  in  favor  of  Jacob 


would  naturally  be  augmented  by  the  conduct  of  Esau 
in  marrying,  doubtless  contrary  to  his  parents’  wishes, 
two  Hittite  women,  who  are  recorded  as  having  been  a 
grief  of  mind  to  Isaac  and  Uebekah  (Gen.  xxvi,  34, 35). 
B.C.  1964. 

Circumstances  thus  prepared  the  way  for  procuring 
the  transfer  of  the  birthright,  when  Isaac,  being  now 
old,  proceeded  to  take  steps  to  pronounce  the  irrevocable 
blessing,  which  acted  with  all  the  force  of  a modern  tes- 
tamentary bequest.  This  blessing,  then,  it  was  essen- 
tial that  Jacob  should  receive  in  preference  to  Esau. 
Here  Rebekah  appears  as  the  chief  agent;  Jacob  is  a mere 
instrument  in  her  hands.  Isaac  directs  Esau  to  procure 
him  some  venison.  This  Rebekah  hears,  and  urges  her 
reluctant  favorite  to  personate  his  elder  brother.  Jacob 
suggests  difficulties;  they  are  met  by  Rebekali,who  is 
ready  to  incur  any  personal  danger  so  that  her  object  be 
gained  (see  Thomson,  Land  and  Book , ii,  355).  Her 
voice  is  obeyed,  the  food  is  brought,  Jacob  is  equipped 
for  the  deceit;  he  helps  out  liis  fraud  by  direct  false- 
hood, and  the  old  man,  whose  senses  are  now  failing,  is 
at  last  with  difficulty  deceived  (Gen.  xxvii).  B.C.  1927. 
It  cannot  be  denied  that  this  is  a most  reprehensible 
transaction,  and  presents  a truly  painful  picture,  in  which 
a mother  conspires  with  one  son  in  order  to  cheat  her 
aged  husband,  with  a view  to  deprive  another  son  of  his 
rightful  inheritance.  Justification  is  here  impossible; 
but  it  should  not  be  forgotten,  in  the  estimate  we  form, 
that  there  ■was  a promise  in  favor  of  Jacob,  that  Jacob’s 
qualities  had  endeared  him  to  his  mother,  and  that  the 
prospect  to  her  was  dark  and  threatening  which  arose 
when  she  saw  the  negligent  Esau  at  the  head  of  the 
house,  and  his  hateful  wives  assuming  command  over 
herself. 

For  the  sale  of  his  birthright  to  Jacob,  Esau  is  brand- 
ed in  the  N.  Test,  as  a “profane  person”  (Heb.  xii,  16). 
The  following  sacred  and  important  privileges  have 
been  mentioned  as  connected  with  primogeniture  in  pa- 
triarchal times,  and  as  constituting  the  object  of  Jacob’s 
desire:  {a)  Superior  rank  in  the  family  (see  Gen.  xlix, 
3,  4).  ( b ) A double  portion  of  the  father’s  property  (so 

Abcn-Ezra)  (see  Dent,  xxi,  17,  and  Gen.  xlvii,  22).  (c) 
The  priestly  office  in  the  patriarchal  church  (see  Numb, 
viii,  17-19).  In  favor  of  this,  see  Jerome,  ad  Evany. 
Ep.  lxxxiii,  § 6;  Jarclii,  in  Gen.  xxv;  Estius,  in  Jlebr. 
xii ; Shuckford,  Connexion,  bk.  vii ; Blunt,  Undes.  Coinc. 
i,  1,  § 2,  3;  and  against  it,  Vitringa,  Observ.  Sac.,  and 
J.  1).  Michaelis,  Mosaisch.  Recht,  ii,  § 64,  cited  by  Rosen- 
miiller  in  Gen.  xxv.  (d)  A conditional  promise  or  ad- 
umbration of  the  heavenly  inheritance  (see  Cartwright 
in  the  Crit.  Sacr.  on  Gen.  xxv).  (e)  The  promise  of 
the  Seed  in  which  all  nations  should  be  blessed,  though 
not  included  in  the  birthright,  may  have  been  so  regard- 
ed by  the  patriarchs,  as  it  was  bv  their  descendants 
(Rom.  ix,  8,  and  Shuckford,  viii).  The  whole  subject 
lias  been  treated  in  separate  essays  by  Vitringa  in  his 
Obserrat.  Sacr.  i.  11,  § 2;  also  by  J.  H.  Hettinger,  and 
by  J.  J.  Schroder.  See  Evoke,  Be  venditione  primogeni- 
ture Esavi  (Wittemb.  1729);  Gmelin,  De  benedict,  pa- 
terna  Esavo  a Jacobo  prarepta  (Tub.  1706);  Heydeg- 
ger,  [list.  Patriarch,  ii,  14.  See  Biktiikigiit. 

With  regard  to  Jacob’s  acquisition  of  his  father’s 
blessing  (cli.  xxvii),  few  persons  will  accept  the  excuse 
offered  by  St.  Augustine  (Serm.  iv,  § 22,23)  lor  the  de- 
ceit which  he  practised : that  it  was  merely  a figurative 
action,  and  that  his  personation  of  Esau  was  justified  by 
his  previous  purchase  of  ILsau’s  birthright.  It  is  not, 
however,  necessary,  with  the  view  of  cherishing  a Chris- 
tian hatred  of  sin,  to  heap  opprobrious  epithets  upon  a 
fallible  man  whom  the  choice  of  God  has  rendered  ven- 
erable in  the  eyes  of  believers.  Waterland  (iv,  208) 
speaks  of  the  conduct  of  Jacob  in  language  which  is 
neither  wanting  in  reverence  nor  likely  to  encourage 
the  extenuation  of  guilt  : “I  do  not  know  whether  it  be 
justifiable  in  every  particular;  I suspect  that  it  is  not. 
There  were  several  very  good  and  laudable  circumstan- 
ces in  what  Jacob  and  Rebekah  did,  but  I do  not  take 


JACOB 


729 


JACOB 


upon  me  to  acquit  them  of  all  blame.  Blunt  ( Utules . 
Coinc.)  observes  that  none  “ of  the  patriarchs  can  be  set 
up  as  a model  of  Christian  morals.  They  lived  under  a 
code  of  laws  that  were  not  absolutely  good,  perhaps  not 
so  good  as  the  Levitical;  for,  as  this  was  but  a prepara- 
tion for  the  more  perfect  law  of  Christ,  so  possibly  was 
the  patriarchal  but  a preparation  for  the  Law  of  Moses.” 
The  circumstances  which  led  to  this  unhappy  transac- 
tion, and  the  retribution  which  fell  upon  all  parties  con- 
cerned in  it,  have  been  carefully  discussed  by  Benson 
( Hulsean  Lectures  [1822]  on  Scripture  Difficulties,  xvi, 
xvii).  See  also  Woodgate  ( Historical  Sermons , ix)  and 
Maurice  ( Patriarchs  aud  Lawgivers,  v).  On  the  ful- 
filment of  the  prophecies  concerning  Esau  and  Jacob, 
and  on  Jacob’s  dying  blessing,  see  bishop  Newton,  Dis- 
sertations on  the  Prophecies,  § 3,  4. 

Punishment  soon  ensued  to  all  the  parties  to  this  in- 
iquitous transaction  (see  Jarvis,  Church  of  the  Redeemed , 
p.  47).  F ear  seized  the  guilty  Jacob,  who  is  sent  by  his 
father,  at  the  suggestion  of  Rebekah,  to  the  original  seat 
of  the  family,  in  order  that  he  might  find  a wife  among 
his  cousins,  the  daughters  of  his  mother’s  brother,  Laban 
the  Syrian  (Gen.  xxviii).  Before  he  is  dismissed,  Jacob 
again  receives  his  father’s  blessing,  the  object  obviously 
being  to  keep  alive  in  the  young  man’s  mind  the  great 
promise  given  to  Abraham,  and  thus  to  transmit  that 
intluence  which,  under  the  aid  of  divine  Providence,  was 
to  end  in  placing  the  family  in  possession  of  the  land  of 
Palestine,  and, in  so  doing,  to  make  it  “a  multitude  of 
people.”  The  language,  however,  employed  by  the  aged 
father  suggests  the  idea  that  the  religious  light  which 
had  been  kindled  in  the  mind  of  Abraham  had  lost  some- 
what of  its  fulness,  if  not  of  its  clearness  also,  since  “ the 
blessing  of  Abraham,”  which  had  originally  embraced 
all  nations,  is  now  restricted  to  the  descendants  of  this 
one  patriarchal  family.  And  so  it  appears,  from  the 
language  which  Jacob  employs  (Gen.  xxviii,  16)  in  re- 
lation to  the  dream  that  he  had  when  he  tarried  all 
night  upon  a certain  plain  on  his  journey  eastward,  that 
his  idea  of  the  Deity  was  little  more  than  that  of  a local 
god : **  Surely  the  Lord  is  in  this  place,  and  I knew  it 
not."  Nor  does  the  language  which  he  immediately 
after  employs  show  that  his  ideas  of  the  relations  be- 
tween God  and  man  were  of  an  exalted  and  refined  na- 
ture : “ If  God  will  be  with  me,  and  will  keep  me  in  the 
way  that  I go,  and  will  give  me  bread  to  eat  and  rai- 
ment to  put  on,  so  that  I come  again  to  my  father’s 
house  in  peace,  then  shall  the  Lord  be  my  God.”  The 
vision,  therefore,  with  which  Jacob  was  favored  was  not 
without  occasion,  nor  could  the  terms  in  which  he  was 
addressed  by  the  Lord  fail  to  enlarge  and  correct  his 
conceptions,  and  make  his  religion  at  once  more  com- 
prehensive and  more  influential.  (Jacob’s  vision  at 
Bethel  is  considered  by  Miegius  in  a treatise  [ De  Scald 
Jacobi J in  the  Thesaurus  nor  us  Theologico-Philologicus, 
i,  195.  See  also  Augustine,  Serin,  cxxii ; Kurz,  History 
of  the  Old  Covenant,  i,  309.) 

2.  Jacob,  on  coming  into  the  land  of  the  people  of  the 
East,  accidentally  met  with  Rachel,  Laban’s  daughter, 
to  whom,  with  true  Eastern  simplicity  and  politeness,  he 
showed  such  courtesy  as  the  duties  of  pastoral  life  sug- 
gest and  admit  (Gen.  xxix).  Here  his  gentle  and  af- 
fectionate nature  displays  itself  under  the  influence  of 
the  bonds  of  kindred  and  the  fair  form  of  the  youthful 
maiden.  “ Jacob  kissed  Rachel,  and  lifted  up  his  voice 
and  wept.”  It  must  be  borne  in  mind,  however,  that 
Jacob  himself  had  now  reached  the  mature  age  of  sev- 
enty-seven years,  as  appears  from  a comparison  of  Jo- 
seph’s age  (Gen.  xxx,  25;  xli,46;  xlv,  2)  with  Jacob’s 
(Gen.  xlvii,  9 ; xxxi,  41).  After  he  hail  been  with  his 
uncle  the  space  of  a month,  Laban  inquires  of  him  what 
reward  he  expects  for  his  sendees.  He  asks  for  the 
“beautiful  and  well-favored  Rachel.”  His  request  is 
granted  on  condition  of  a seven  years’  service — a long 
period,  truly,  but  to  Jacob  “they  seemed  but  a few  days 
for  the  love  he  had  to  her.”  When  the  time  was  ex- 
pired, the  crafty  Laban  availed  himself  of  the  customs 


of  the  country  in  order  to  substitute  his  elder  and  “ ten- 
der-eyed” daughter,  Leah.  In  the  morning  Jacob  found 
how  he  had  been  beguiled;  but  Laban  excused  himself, 
saying,  “ It  must  not  be  done  in  our  country,  to  give  the 
younger  before  the  first-born.”  Another  seven  years’ 
service  gains  for  Jacob  the  beloved  Rachel.  Leah, 
however,  has  the  compensatory  privilege  of  being  the 
mother  of  the  first-born,  Reuben;  three  other  sons  suc- 
cessively follow,  namely,  .Simeon,  Levi,  and  Judah,  sons 
of  Leah.  This  fruitfulness  was  a painful  subject  of  re- 
flection to  the  barren  Rachel,  who  employed  1 niguage 
on  this  occasion  that  called  forth  a reply  from  her  hus- 
band which  shows  that,  mild  as  was  the  character  of  Ja- 
cob, it  was  by  no  means  wanting  in  force  and  energy 
(Gen.  xxx,  2).  An  arrangement,  however,  took  place, 
by  which  Rachel  had  children  by  means  of  her  maid, 
Bilhah,  of  whom  Dan  and  Naplitali  were  bom.  Two 
other  sons,  Gad  and  Asher,  were  born  to  Jacob  of  Leah’s 
maid,  Zilpah.  Leah  herself  bare  two  more  sons,  name- 
ly, Issachar  and  Zebulun ; she  also  bare  a daughter,  Di- 
nah. At  length  Rachel  herself  bare  a son,  and  she  call- 
ed his  name  Joseph.  As  this  part  of  the  sacred  history 
has  been  made  the  subject  of  cavil  on  the  alleged  ground 
of  anachronism  (see  Hengstenbcrg,  Auth.  des  Pentat.  ii, 
851),  it  may  be  well  to  present  here  a table  showing  the 
chronological  possibility  of  the  birth  of  these  children 
within  the  years  allotted  in  the  narrative  (Gen.  xxix, 
32;  xxx,  24). 


H A. 

Bu 

Rachel, 

By 

Bilhah. 

By 

Zilpah. 

B.C.  I 

1 Reuben 

Summer, 

1919 

2 Simeon 

Spring, 

1918 

3 Levi 

Spring, 

1917 

4 Judah 

Beginning  1916 

5 

Dan 

Spring, 

1916 

6 

Naphtali 

Gad 

Spring, 

1915 

7 

Summer, 

1915 

8 Issachar 

Beginning 

1914 

9 

Asher 

Spring, 

1914 

10  Zebulon 

Fall, 

1914 

It  Dinah 

Summer, 

1913 

| 12 

Joseph 

Fall. 

1913 

Jacob’s  polygamy  is  an  instance  of  a patriarchal  prac- 
tice quite  repugnant  to  Christian  morality,  but  to  be  ac- 
counted for  on  the  groimd  that  the  time  had  not  then 
come  for  a full  expression  of  the  will  of  God  on  this  sub- 
ject. The  mutual  rights  of  husband  and  wife  were  rec- 
ognised in  the  history  of  the  Creation,  but  instances  of 
polygamy  are  frequent  among  persons  mentioned  in  the 
sacred  records,  from  Lamech  (Gen.  iv,  19)  to  Herod  (Jo- 
sephus, A nt.  xvii,  1,  2).  In  times  when  frequent  wars 
increased  the  number  of  captives  and  orphans,  and  re- 
duced nearly  all  service  to  slavery,  there  may  have  been 
some  reason  for  extending  the  recognition  and  protec- 
tion of  the  law  to  concubines  or  half-wives,  as  Bilhah 
and  Zilpah.  In  the  case  of  Jacob,  it  is  right  to  bear  in 
mind  that  it  was  not  his  original  intention  to  marry 
both  the  daughters  of  Laban.  (See,  on  this  subject, 
Augustine,  Contra  Faustnm,  xxii,  47-54.) 

Most  faithfully  and  with  great  success  had  Jacob 
served  his  uncle  for  fourteen  years,  when  he  became  de- 
sirous of  returning  to  his  parents.  At  the  urgent  re- 
quest of  Laban,  however,  he  is  induced  to  remain  for  an 
additional  term  of  six  years.  The  language  employed 
upon  this  occasion  (Gen.  xxx,  25  sq.)  shows  that  Ja- 
cob's character  had  gained  considerably  during  his  ser- 
vice, both  in  strength  and  comprehensiveness;  but  the 
means  which  he  employed  in  order  to  make  his  bargain 
with  his  uncle  work  so  as  to  enrich  himself,  prove  too 
clearly  that  his  moral  feelings  had  not  undergone  an 
equal  improvement  (see  Baumgarten,  Comment.  I,  i,  276), 
and  that  the  original  taint  of  prudence,  and  the  sad  les- 
sons of  his  mother  in  deceit,  had  produced  some  of  their 
natural  fruit  in  his  bosom.  (Those  who  may  wish  to 
inquire  into  the  nature  and  efficacy  of  the  means  which 
Jacob  employed,  may,  ill  addition  to  the  original  narra- 
j tive,  consult  Michaeiis  and  Rosenmuller  on  the  subject, 
! as  well  as  the  following:  Jerome,  Qwest,  in  Gen. ; Pliny, 
i Hist.  Xat.  vii,  10 ; Oppian,  Cyneg.  i,  330  sq. ; Michaeiis, 


JACOB 


730 


JACOB 


Verm.  SchriffA,  61  sq.;  Hastfeer,  Ueber  Schafzucht;  Bo- 
chart,  Ilieroz.  i,  619;  Nitschmann,  JJe  corylo  Jacobi  in 
Thesaur.  nocus  Tkeologico-Pkilologicus , i,  201.  iner 
[Uandwvrterh.  s.v.  Jacob]  gives  a parallel  passage  from 
/Elian,  Hist.  A mm.  vii i,  21.) 

The  prosperity  of  Jacob  displeased  and  grieved  Laban, 
so  that  a separation  seemed  desirable.  His  wives  are 
ready  to  accompany  him.  Accordingly,  he  set  out,  with 
his  family  and  his  property,  “ to  go  to  Isaac  his  father  in 
the  land  of  Canaan”  (Gen.  xxxi)  (B.C.  1907).  It  was 
not  till  the  third  day  that  Laban  learned  that  Jacob  had 
tied,  when  he  immediately  set  out  in  pursuit  of  his 
nephew,  and,  after  seven  days’ journey,  overtook  him  in 
Mount  Gilead.  Laban,  however,  is  divinely  warned  not 
to  hinder  Jacob’s  return.  Beproaeli  and  recrimination 
ensued.  Even  a charge  of  theft  is  put  forward  by  La- 
ban : “ Wherefore  hast  thou  stolen  my  gods  ?”  In  truth, 
l.’achel  had  carried  off  certain  images  which  were  the 
objects  of  worship.  Ignorant  of  this  misdeed,  Jacob 
boldly  called,  for  a search,  adding,  (i  With  whomsoever 
thou  findest  thy  gods,  let  him  not  live.”  A crafty  wom- 
an’s cleverness  eluded  the  keen  eye  of  Laban.  Iiachel, 
by  an  appeal  which  one  of  her  sex  alone  could  make, 
deceived  her  father.  Thus  one  sin  begets  another ; su- 
perstition prompts  to  theft,  and  theft  necessitates  deceit. 
Whatever  opinion  maybe  formed  of  the  teraphim  (q.  v.) 
which  Itachel  stole,  and  which  Laban  was  so  anxious  to 
discover,  and  whatever  kind  or  degree  of  worship  may 
in  reality  have  been  paid  to  them,  their  existence  in  the 
family  suffices  of  itself  to  show  how  imperfectly  instruct- 
ed regarding  the  Creator  were  at  this  time  those  who 
were  among  the  least  ignorant  in  divine  things.  La- 
ban’s conduct  on  this  occasion  called  forth  a reply  from 
Jacob,  from  which  it  appears  that  his  service  had  been 
most  severe,  and  which  also  proves  that,  however  this 
severe  service  might  have  encouraged  a certain  servili- 
ty, it  had  not  prevented  the  development  in  Jacob’s  soul 
of  a high  and  energetic  spirit,  which,  when  roused, 
could  assert  its  rights,  and  give  utterance  to  sentiments 
both  just,  striking,  and  forcible,  and  in  the  most  poetical 
phraseology.  Peace,  however,  being  restored,  Laban  on 
the  ensuing  morning  took  a friendly,  if  not  an  affection- 
ate farewell  of  his  daughters  and  their  sons,  and  return- 
ed home. 

3.  So  far,  things  have  gone  prosperously  with  Jacob; 
the  word  of  God  to  him  at  Bethel,  promising  protection 
and  blessing,  has  been  wonderfully  verified,  and,  with  a 
numerous  family  and  large  possessions,  he  has  again 
reached  in  safety  the  borders  of  Canaan.  But  is  there 
still  no  danger  in  front?  Shortly  after  parting  with 
Laban,  he  met,  we  are  told,  troops  of  angels,  apparently 
a double  band,  and  wearing  somewhat  of  a warlike  as- 
pect, for  he  called  the.  place  in  honor  of  them  by  the 
name,  of  Mahanaim  [ two  hosts ] (Gen.  xxxii,  1,  2). 
Whether  this  sight  was  presented  to  him  in  vision,  or 
took  place  as  an  occurrence  in  the  sphere  of  ordinary 
life,  may  be  questioned,  though  the,  latter  supposition 
seems  best  to  accord  with  the  narrative;  but  it  is  not  of 
material  moment,  for  either  way  the  appearance  was  a 
reality,  and  bore  the  character  of  a specific  revelation  to 
Jacob,  adapted  to  the  circumstances  in  which  he  was 
placed.  It  formed  a fitting  counterpart  to  what  he  for- 
merly had  seen  at  Bethel ; angels  were  then  employed 
to  indicate  the  peaceful  relation  in  which  he  stood  to 
the  heavenly  world  when  obliged  to  retire  from  Canaan, 
and  now,  on  his  return,  they  are  again  employed  with  a 
like  Iriendly  intent — to  give  -warning,  indeed,  of  a hos- 
tile encounter,  but  at  the  same  time  to  assure  Iiim  of  the 
powerful  guardianship  and  support  of  heaven.  The  for- 
mer part  of  the  design  was  not  long  in  finding  confirma- 
tion; for, on  sending  messengers  to  his  brother  Esau  with 
a friendly  greeting,  and  apprising  him  of  his  safe  return 
after  a long  and  prosperous  sojourn  in  Mesopotamia,  he 
learned  that  Esau  was  on  his  way  to  meet  him  with  a 
host  of  400  men.  There  could  be  no  reasonable  doubt, 
especially  after  the  preliminary  intimation  given  through 
the  angelic  bands,  as  to  the  intention  of  Esau  in  advan- 


cing towards  his  brother  with  such  a force.  The  news 
of  Jacob’s  reappearance  in  Canaan,  and  that  no  longer 
as  a dependant  upon  others,  hut  as  possessed  of  ample 
means  and  a considerable  retinue,  awoke  into  fresh  ac- 
tivity t he  slumbering  revenge  of  Esau,  and  led  him,  on 
the  spur  of  the  moment,  to  resolve  on  bringing  the  con- 
troversy between  them  to  a decisive  issue.  This  ap- 
pears from  the  whole  narrative  to  he  so  plainly  the  true 
state  of  matters,  that  it  seems  needless  to  refer  to  other 
views  that  have  been  taken  of  it.  But  Jacob  was  not 
the  man  at  any  time  to  repel  force  with  force,  and  he 
had  now  learned,  by  a variety  of  experiences,  where  the 
real  secret  of  his  safety  and  strength  lay.  His  first  im- 
pressions, however,  on  getting  the  intelligence,  were 
those  of  trembling  anxiety  and  fear ; but,  on  recovering 
himself  a little,  lie  called  to  his  aid  the  two  great  weap- 
ons of  the  believer — pains  and  prayer.  He  first  divided 
his  people,  with  the  flocks  and  herds,  into  two  compa- 
nies, so  that  if  the  one  were  attacked  the  other  might 
escape.  Then  he  threw  himself  in  earnest  prayer  and 
supplication  on  the  covenant-mercy  and  faithfulness  of 
God,  putting  God  in  mind  of  his  past  loving-kindnesses, 
at  once  great  and  undeserved ; reminding  him  also  of 
the  express  charge  he  had  given  Jacob  to  return  to  Ca- 
naan, with  the  promise  of  his  gracious  presence,  and  im- 
ploring him  now  to  establish  the  hopes  he  had  inspired 
by  granting  deliverance  from  the  hands  of  Esau.  So 
ended  the  first  night ; but  on  the  following  day  further 
measures  were  resorted  to  by  Jacob,  though  still  in  the 
same  direction.  Aware  of  the  melting  power  of  kind- 
ness, and  how  “a  gift  in  secret  pacifieth  anger,”  he  re- 
solved on  giving  from  his  substance  a munificent  pres- 
ent to  Esau,  placing  each  kind  by  itself,  one  after  the 
other,  in  a succession  of  droves,  so  that  on  hearing,  as  he 
passed  drove  after  drove,  the  touching  words,  “ A present 
sent  to  my  lord  Esau  from  thy  servant  Jacob,”  it  might 
be  like  the  pouring  of  live  coals  on  the  head  .of  his 
wrathful  enemy.  How  could  he  let  his  fury  explode 
against  a brother  who  showed  himself  so  anxious  to  be 
on  terms  of  peace  with  him?  It  could  scarcely  be,  un- 
less there  were  still  in  Jacob’s  condition  the  grounds  of 
a quarrel  between  him  and  his  God  not  yet  altogether 
settled,  and  imperilling  the  success  even  of  the  best  ef- 
forts and  the  most  skilful  preparations. 

That  there  really  was  something  of  the  sort  now  sup- 
posed seems  plain  from  what  ensued.  Jacob  had  made 
all  his  arrangements,  and  had  got  his  family  as  well  as 
his  substance  transported  over  the  Jabbok  (a  brook  that 
traverses  the  land  of  Gilead,  and  runs  into  the  Jordan 
about  half  way  between  the  Lake  of  Galilee  rnd  the 
Dead  Sea),  himself  remaining  behind  for  the  night.  It 
is  not  said  for  what  purpose  he  so  remained,  but  there 
can  be  little  doubt  it  was  for  close  and  solitary  dealing 
with  God.  While  thus  engaged,  one  suddenly  appeared 
in  the  form  of  a man,  and  in  the  guise  of  an  enemy 
wrestling  with  him  and  contending  for  the  mastery. 
Esau  was  still  at  some  distance,  but  here  was  an  adver- 
sary already  present  with  whom  Jacob  had  to  maintain 
a severe  and  perilous  conflict ; and  this  plainly  an  ad- 
versary in  appearance  only  human,  but  in  reality  the 
angel  of  the  Lord’s  presence.  It  was  as  much  as  to  say, 
“ You  have  reason  to  be  afraid  of  the  enmity  of  one 
mightier  than  Esau,  and,  if  you  can  only  prevail  in  get- 
ting deliverance  from  this,  there  is  no  fear  that  matters 
will  go  well  with  you  otherwise ; right  with  God,  you 
may  trust  him  to  set  you  right  with  your  brother.” 
The  ground  and  reason  of  the  matter  lay  in  Jacob’s  de- 
ceitful and  wicked  conduct  before  leaving  the  land  of 
Canaan,  which  had  fearfnlly  compromised  the  character 
of  God,  and  brought  disturbance  into  Jacob’s  relation  to 
the  covenant.  Leaving  the  land  of  Canaan  covered 
with  guilt,  and  liable  to  wrath,  he  must  now  re-enter  it 
amid  sharp  contending,  such  as  might  lead  to  great 
searchings  of  heart,  deep  spiritual  abasement,  and  the 
renunciation  of  all  sinful  and  crooked  devices  as  utterly 
at  variance  with  the  childlike  simplicity  and  confidence 
in  God  which  it  became  him  to  exercise.  In  the  ear- 


JACOB 


731 


JACOB 


nest  conflict,  he  maintained  his  ground,  till  the  heaven- 
ly combatant  touched  the  hollow  of  his  thigh  and  put  it 
out  of  joint,  in  token  of  the  supernatural  might  which 
this  mysterious  antagonist  had  at  his  command,  and 
showing  how  easy  it  had  been  for  him  (if  he  had  so 
pleased)  to  gain  the  mastery.  But  even  then  Jacob 
■would  not  quit  his  hold;  nay,  all  the  more  he  woidd  re- 
tain it,  since  now  he  could  do  nothing  more,  and  since, 
also,  it  was  plain  he  had  to  do  with  one  who  had  the 
power  of  life  and  death  in  his  hand ; he  would,  there- 
fore, not  let  him  go  till  he  obtained  a blessing.  Faith 
thus  wrought  mightily  out  of  human  weakness — strong 
by  reason  of  its  clinging  affection,  and  its  beseeching 
importunity  for  the  favor  of  heaven,  as  expressed  in 
IIos.  xii, 4:  “By  his  strength  he  had  power  with  God; 
yea,  he  had  power  over  the  angel,  and  prevailed ; he 
wept  and  made  supplication  unto  him.”  In  attestation 
of  the  fact,  and  for  a suitable  commemoration  of  it,  lie 
had  his  name  changed  from  Jacob  to  Israel  (combatant 
or  wrestler  with  God) ; “ for  as  a prince,”  it  was  added, 
by  way  of  explanation,  “hast  thou  power  with  God  and 
with  men,  and  hast  prevailed.”  Jacob,  in  turn,  asked 
after  the  name  of  the  person  who  had  wrestled  with 
him — not  as  if  any  longer  ignorant  who  it  might  be, but 
wishing  to  have  the  character  or  manifestation  of  God- 
head, as  this  had  now  appeared  to  him,  embodied  in  a 
significant  and  appropriate  name.  1 1 is  request,  howev- 
er, was  denied;  the  divine  wrestler  withdrew,  after  hav- 
ing blessed  him.  But  Jacob  himself  gave  a name  to 
the  place,  near  the  Jabbok,  where  the  memorable  trans- 
action had  occurred : he  called  it  Peniel  (the  face  of 
Cod'),  “ for,”  said  he,  “I  have  seen  God  face  to  face,  and 
my  life  is  preserved”  (Gen.  xxxii,  25-31).  The  contest 
indicated  that  he  had  reason  to  fear  the  reverse ; but  his 
preservation  was  the  sign  of  reconciliation  and  blessing. 

This  mysterious  ■wrestling  has  been  a fruitful  source 
of  difficulty  and  misinterpretation  (see  Hofmann,  Yaria 
Sacra,  185  sq. ; Heumann,  Syllog.  diss.  i,  147  sq.).  The 
narrator  did  not,  we  think,  intend  it  for  the  account  of  a 
dream  or  illusion  (see  Ziegler  in  Henke’s  Nat.  Mag.  ii, 
29  sq. ; Hengstenberg,  Bileam , p.  51 ; Herder,  deist  der 
Ileb.  Poesie,  i,  266  ; Tuch’s  Gen.  p.  468).  A literal  inter- 
pretation may  seem  difficult,  for  it  makes  the  Omnipo- 
tent vanquish  one  of  his  own  creatures,  not  without  a 
long  struggle,  and  at  last  only  by  a sort  of  art  or  strata- 
gem (compare  similar  accounts  in  heathen  mythology, 
Bauer,  Ileb.  Mythol.  i,  251  sq.;  Movers,  Phonic,  i,  433  ; 
Buhlen,  Indien , i,  225).  At  the  same  time  it  must  be 
said  that  the  only  way  to  expound  the  narrative  is  to 
divest  ourselves  of  our  own  modern  associations,  and  en- 
deavor to  contemplate  it  from  the  position  in  which  its 
author  stood  (see  Bush’s  Note,  ad  loc.).  Still,  the  ques- 
tion recurs,  What  was  the  fact  which  he  has  set  forth 
in  these  terms?  (see  De  Wette,  Krit.  d.  Is.  Gesch.  p.  132  ; 
Ewahl,  Israeliten,  i,  405;  Rosenmuller,  Scholia,  ad  loc.) 
The  design  (says  Wellbeloved,  ad  loc.),  “ was  to  encour- 
age Jacob,  returning  to  his  native  land,  and  fearful  of 
his  brother’s  resentment,  and  to  confirm  his  faith  in  the 
existence  and  providence  of  God.  And  who  will  ven- 
ture to  say  that  in  that  early  period  any  other  equally 
efficacious  means  coidd  have  been  employed?”  (Comp, 
the  language  already  quoted  [ver.  28].)  A very  obvious 
end  pursued  throughout  the  history  of  Jacob  was  the 
development  of  his  religious  convictions;  and  the  event 
in  question,  no  less  than  the  altars  be  erected  and  the 
dreams  he  had,  may  have  materially  conduced  to  so  im- 
portant a result.  That  it  had  a lasting  spiritual  effect 
upon  Jacob  is  evident  from  the  devout  tenor  of  his  after 
life.  (For  a beautiful  exposition  of  this  event,  see 
Charles  Wesley’s  poem  entitled  “Wrestling  Jacob.” 
Compare  Krummaclier,  Jacob  Wrestling  [Lond.  1838].) 

After  this  night  of  anxious  but  triumphant  wrestling, 
Jacob  rose  from  Peniel  with  the  sun  shining  upon  him 
(an  emblem  of  the  bright  and  radiant  hope  which  now 
iUuminatcd  his  inner  man),  and  went  on  his  way  halt- 
ing— weakened  corporeally  by  the  conflict  in  which  he 
had  engaged,  that  he  might  have  no  confidence  in  the 


flesh,  but  strong  in  the  divine  favor  and  blessing.  Ac- 
cordingly, when  Esau  approached  with  his  formidable 
host,  all  "hostile  feelings  gave  way ; the  victory  had  been 
already  won  in  the  higher  sphere  of  things,  and  he  who 
tumeth  the  hearts  of  kings  like  the  rivers  of  water, 
made  the  heart  of  Esau  melt  like  wax  before  the  liberal 
gifts,  the  humble  demeanor,  and  earnest  entreaties  of  his 
brother.  They  embraced  each  other  as  brethren,  and 
for  the  present  at  least,  and  for  anything  that  appears 
during  the  remainder  of  their  personal  lives,  they  main- 
tained the  most  friendly  relations. 

4.  After  residing  for  a little  on  the  farther  side  of 
Jordan,  at  a place  called  Succoth,  from  Jacob’s  having 
erected  there  booths  (Hebrew  sukkoth)  for  his  cattle,  he 
crossed  the  Jordan,  and  pitched  his  tent  near  Shechcm 
— ultimately  the  centre  of  the  Samaritans.  [In  the  re- 
ceived text,  it  is  said  (Gen.  xxxiii,  18),  “He  came  to 
Shalem,  a city  of  Shechcm” — but  some  prefer  the  read- 
ing Shalom:  “He  came  in  peace  to  city  of  Shechem.”] 
There  he  bought  a piece  of  ground  from  the  family  of 
Shechem,  and  obtained  a footing  among  the  people  as  a 
man  of. substance,  whose  friendship  it  was  desirable  to 
cultivate.  But  ere  long,  having,  by  the  misconduct  of 
llamor  the  Hivite  (see  Dinah)  and  the  hardy  valor  of 
his  sons,  been  involved  in  danger  from  the  natives  of 
1 Shechem  in  Canaan,  Jacob  is  divinely  directed,  and, 
under  the  divine  protection,  proceeds  to  Bethel,  where 
he  is  to  “make  an  altar  unto  God,  that  appeared  unto 
thee  when  thou  fleddest  from  the  face  of  Esau  thy 
brother”  (Gen.  xxxiv,  xxxv)  (B.C.  cir.  1900).  Obedi- 
ent to  the  divine  command,  he  first  purifies  his  family 
from  “strange  gods,”  which  he  hid  under  “the  oak 
which  is  by  Shechem,”  after  which  God  appeared  to 
him  again,  with  the  important  declaration,  “ I am  God 
Almighty,”  and  renewed  the  Abrahamic  covenant. 
While  journeying  from  Bctli-el  to  Ephrath,  his  beloved 
, Rachel  lost  her  life  in  giving  birth  to  her  second  son, 
i Benjamin  (Gen.  xxxv,  16-20)  (B.C.  cir.  1899).  At 
length  Jacob  came  to  his  father  Isaac  at  Mamre,  the 
familv  residence,  in  time  to  pay  the  last  attentions  to 
the  aged  patriarch  (Gen.  xxxv,  27)  (B.C.  1898).  The 
complete  reconciliation  between  Jacob  and  Esan  at 
this  time  is  shown  by  their  uniting  in  the  burial  rites 
of  their  father.  Not  long  after  this  bereavement,  Jacob 
was  robbed  of  his  beloved  son,  Joseph,  through  the  jeal- 
ousy and  bad  faith  of  his  brothers  ( Gen.  xxxvii)  (B.C. 
1896).  This  loss  is  the  occasion  of  showing  us  how 
strong  were  Jacob’s  paternal  feelings;  for.  on  seeing 
what  appeared  to  be  proofs  that  “some  evil  beast  had 
devoured  Joseph,”  the  old  man  “rent  his  clothes,  anti 
put  sackcloth  upon  his  loins,  and  mourned  for  his  son 
many  days,  and  refused  to  be  comforted”  (Gen.  xxxvii, 
33). 

A widely  extended  famine  induced  Jacob  to  send  his 
sons  down  into  Egypt,  where  he  had  heard  there  was 
corn,  without  knowing  by  whose  instrumentality  (Gen. 
xlii  sq.)  (B.C.  1875).  The  patriarch,  however,  retained 
his  youngest  son  Benjamin,  “lest  mischief  should  befall 
him,”  as  it  had  befallen  Joseph.  The  young  men  re- 
turned with  the  needed  supplies  of  corn.  They  related, 
however,  that  they  had  been  taken  for  spies,  and  that 
there  wras  but  one  way  in  which  they  could  disprove 
I the  charge, namely, by  carrying  down  Benjamin  to  “the 
lord  of  the  land.”  This  Jacob  vehemently  refused  (Gen. 
xliii.  36).  The  pressure  of  the  famine,  however,  at 
length  forced  Jacob  to  allow  Benjamin  to  accompany 
his  brothers  on  a second  visit  to  Egypt;  whence,  in  due 
time,  they  brought  back  to  their  father  the  pleasing  in- 
telligence, “Joseph  is  yet  alive,  and  he  is  governor  over 
all  the  land  of  Egypt.”  How  naturally  is  the  effect  of 
this  on  Jacob  told — “and  Jacob’s  heart  fainted,  for  he 
i believed  them  not.”  When,  however,  they  had  gone 
1 into  particulars,  he  added,  “ Enough,  Joseph  my  son  is 
i yet  alive;  1 will  go  and  see  him  before  I die.”  Touches 
I of  nature  like  this  suffice  to  show  the  reality  of  the  his- 
I tory  before  us,  and,  since  they  are  not  unfrequent  in  the 
| book  of  Genesis,  they  will  of  themselves  avail  to  sustain 


732 


JACOB 


JACOB 

its  credibility  against  all  that  the  enemy  can  do.  The 
passage,  too,  with  others  recently  cited,  strongly  proves 
how  much  the  character  of  the  patriarch  had  improved. 
In  the  whole  of  the  latter  part  of  Jacob’s  life  he  seems 
to  have  gradually  parted  with  many  less  desirable  qual- 
ities, and  to  have  become  at  once  more  truthful,  more 
energetic,  more  earnest,  affectionate,  and,  in  the  largest 
sense  of  the  word,  religious.  Encouraged  “ in  the  vi- 
sions of  the  night,”  Jacob  goes  down  to  Egypt  (B.C. 
1874),  and  was  affectionately  met  by  Joseph  (Gen.  xlvi, 
2!>).  Joseph  proceeded  to  conduct  his  father  into  the 
presence  of  the  Egyptian  monarch,  when  the  man  of 
God,  with  that  self-consciousness  and  dignity  which 
religion  gives,  instead  of  offering  slavish  adulation, 
“blessed  l'haraoli.”  .Struck  with  the  patriarch’s  vener- 
able air,  the  king  asked,  “How  old  art  thou?”  What 
composure  and  elevation  is  there  in  the  reply,  “The 
days  of  the  years  of  my  pilgrimage  are  a hundred  and 
thirty  years;  few  and  evil  have  the  days  of  the  years 
of  my  life  been,  and  have  not  attained  unto  the  days  of 
the  years  of  the  life  of  my  fathers  in  the  days  of  their 
pilgrimage”  (Gen.  xlvii,  8-10).  Jacob,  with  his  sons, 
now  entered  into  possession  of  some  of  the  best  land  of 
Egypt,  where  they  carried  on  their  pastoral  occupations, 
and  enjoyed  a very  large  share  of  earthly  prosperity. 
The  aged  patriarch,  after  being  strangely  tossed  about 
on  a very  rough  ocean,  found  at  last  a tranquil  harbor, 
where  all  the  best  affections  of  his  nature  wrere  gently 
exercised  and  largely  unfolded  (Gen.  xlviii,  sq.).  After 
a lapse  of  time,  Joseph,  being  informed  that  his  father 
was  sick,  went  to  him,  when  “ Israel  strengthened  him- 
self, and  sat  up  in  his  bed.”  He  acquainted  Joseph 
with  the  divine  promise  of  the  land  of  Canaan  which 
yet  remained  to  be  fulfilled,  and  took  Joseph’s  sons, 
Ephraim  and  Manasseh,  distinguishing  them  by  an 
adoption  equal  to  that  of  Reuben  and  Simeon,  the  oldest 
of  his  own  sons  (Gen.  xlviii,  5).  How'  impressive  is  his 
benediction  in  Joseph’s  family  (Gen.  xlviii,  15,  16): 
“God, before  whom  m3'  fathers  Abraham  and  Isaac  did 
walk,  the  God  which  fed  me  all  my  life  long  unto  this 
day,  the  angel  which  redeemed  me  from  all  evil,  bless 
the  lads;  and  let  my  name  be  named  on  them,  and  the 
name  of  my  fathers;  and  let  them  grow  into  a multi- 
tude in  the  midst  of  the  earth.”  “And  Israel  said  unto 
Joseph,  Behold,  1 die;  but  God  will  be  with  you,  and 
bring  you  again  unto  the  land  of  your  fathers”  (ver.  21). 
Then,  having  convened  his  sons,  the  venerable  patri- 
arch pronounced  on  them  also  a blessing,  which  is  full 
of  the  loftiest  thought,  expressed  in  the  most  poetical 
diction,  and  adorned  bv  the  most  vividly  descriptive 
and  engaging  imagery  (see  Stiihelin,  Aniriadversiones 
in  Jacobi  vaticininm,  I Ieidelb.  1827),  showing  how  deep- 
ly  religious  his  character  had  become,  how  freshly  it 
retained  its  fervor  to  the  last,  and  how  greatly  it  had 
increased  in  strength,  elevation,  and  dignity:  “Ant. 
when  Jacob  had  made  an  end  of  commanding  his  sons, 
he  gathered  up  his  feet  into  the  bed  [i.  e.  knelt  towards 
the  bed’s  head  (see  Delitzseli  on  Ileb.xi,  21)  rather  than 
bowed  over  the  top  of  his  staff,  as  Stuart,  ad  loc.  (see 
Stake)],  and  yielded  up  the  ghost,  and  was  gathered 
unto  his  people”  (Gen.  xlix,  33),  at  the  ripe  age  of  147 
3*ears  (Gen.  xlvii,  28).  B.C.  1857.  Ilis  body  was  em- 
balmed, carried  with  great  care  and  pomp  into  the  land 
of  Canaan,  and  deposited  with  his  fathers,  and  his  wife 
Leah,  in  the  cave  of  Machpelah.  The  route  pursued  by 
this  funeral  procession  is  ingeniously  supposed  by  Ur. 
Kitto  {Piet.  /lint,  of  Jews,  i,  136)  to  have  been  the  more 
circuitous  one  afterwards  taken  by  the  Israelites  by  the 
wav  of  Mount  Seir  and  across  the  Jordan,  the  object 
being  apparently  in  both  cases  the  fear  of  the  Philis- 
tines, who  lay  in  the  direct  route.  Dr.  Thomson  ob- 
jects to  this  as  an  unnecessary  deviation  ( Land  and 
Book,  ii,  385),  urging  that  the  Bethagla,  which  Jerome 
identities  with  the  Area-Atad  or  Abel-mizraiin  (q.  v.), 
as  the  scene  of  the  mourning  ceremonies,  lay  near  Gaza; 
but  in  this  case  it  is  certainly  difficult  to  explain  the 
constant  statement  that  the  spot  in  question  was  situ- 


ated “beyond  the  Jordan,”  as  it  clearly  implies  a cross- 
ing of  the  river  by  the  cavalcade. 

In  the  list  of  Jacob’s  lineal  descendants  given  in  Gen. 
xlvi,  8-27,  as  being  those  that  accompanied  him  on  his 
removal  to  Egypt,  there  is  evidence  that  the  list  w'as 
rather  made  up  to  the  time  of  his  decease,  or  perhaps 
even  somewhat  later  (see  Hengstenberg’s  Pentateuch,  ii, 
290  sq.)  ; for  we  find  mentioned  not  only  numerous  sons 
(some  of  whom  will  appear  to  be  even  grandsons)  of 
Benjamin,  at  the  date  of  that  emigration  a youth  (see 
xliv,  20,  30-34),  but  also  the  children  of  Pharez,  at  that 
time  a mere  child  (comp,  xxxviii,  1).  See  Benjamin. 
There  has,  moreover,  been  experienced  considerable  dif- 
ficulty in  making  out  the  total  of  seventy  persons  there 
stated,  as  well  as  the  sum  of  sixty-six  included  in  it, 
and  likewise  the  aggregates  of  the  posterity  of  the  sev- 
eral wives  as  there  computed.  This  difficult}'  is  further 
enhanced  by  the  number  sevent}'-five  assigned  by  Ste- 
phen (Acts  vii,  14)  to  Jacob’s  family  at  the  same  date. 
This  last  statement,  however,  cannot  he  disposed  of  in 
the  manner  frequently  adopted  b}'  including  the  wives 
of  Jacob  and  his  sons  (for  it  does  not  appear  that  they 
are  at  all  referred  to,  and  it  is  probable  that  the}'  would 
have  swelled  the  number  more  largely  if  added),  but  is 
ratber  to  be  regarded  as  a quotation  made  (without  in- 
dorsing or  caring  to  discuss  its  accuracy)  from  the  Sept., 
which  gives  that  total  in  the  passage  in  Genesis,  but 
inconsistently  attributes  nine  sons  to  Joseph  in  place  of 
two.  Of  all  the  explanations  of  the  other  discrepancies, 
that  of  Dr.  Hales  is  perhaps  the  most  plausible  ( Analy- 
sis of  Chronology,  ii,  159),  but  it  has  the  insuperable  ob- 
jections of  including  Jacob  himself  among  the  number 
of  his  own  posterity,  and  of  not  conforming  to  the  meth- 
od of  enumeration  in  the  text.  A comparison  of  Numb, 
xxvi,  8,  shows  that  the  name  of  Eliab,  the  son  of  Pallu 
and  grandson  of  Reuben,  has  been  accidentally  dropped 
from  the  list  in  question  ; this  restored,  the  whole,  with 
its  parallel  accounts,  may  be  adjusted  with  entire  har- 
mony, as  in  the  table  on  the  following  pages. 

The  example  of  Jacob  is  quoted  by  the  first  and  the 
last  of  the  minor  prophets.  Hosea,  in  the  latter  days 
of  the  kingdom,  seeks  (xii,  3, 4, 12)  to  convert  the  de- 
scendants of  Jacob  from  their  state  of  alienation  from 
God  by  recalling  to  their  memory  the  repeated  acts  of 
God’s  favor  shown  to  their  ancestor.  Malaehi  (i,  2) 
strengthens  the  desponding  hearts  of  the  returned  ex- 
iles by  assuring  them  that  the  love  which  God  bestow- 
ed upon  Jacob  w'as  not  withheld  from  them.  Besides 
the  frequent  mention  of  his  name  in  conjunction  with 
those  of  the  other  two  patriarchs,  there  are  distinct  ref- 
erences to  events  in  the  life  of  Jacob  in  four  books  of 
the  N.  T.  In  Rom.  ix,  11-13,  Paul  adduces  the  history 
of  Jacob’s  birth  to  prove  that  the  favor  of  God  is  inde- 
pendent of  the  order  of  natural  descent.  In  Heb.  xii, 
16,  and  xi,  23,  the  transfer  of  the  birthright  and  Jacob’s 
dying  benediction  are  referred  to.  His  vision  at  Bethel, 
and  his  possession  of  land  at  Sheehem,  are  cited  in  John 
i,  51,  and  iv,  5, 12.  Stephen,  in  his  speech  (Acts  vii,  12, 
16),  mentions  the  famine  which  was  the  means  of  re- 
storing Jacob  to  his  lost  son  in  Egypt,  and  the  burial 
of  the  patriarch  in  Shecliem. 

In  Jacob  may  be  traced  a combination  of  the  quiet 
patience  of  his  father  with  the  acquisitiveness  which 
seems  to  have  marked  his  mother’s  family ; and  in  Esau, 
as  in  Ishmael,  the  migratory  and  independent  character 
of  Abraham  was  developed  into  the  enterprising  habits 
of  a w arlike  hunter-chief.  Jacob,  w'hose  history  occu- 
pies a larger  space,  leaves  on  the  reader’s  mind  a less  fa- 
vorable impression  than  either  of  the  other  patriarchs 
with  whom  he  is  joined  in  equal  honor  in  the  N.  T. 
(Matt,  viii,  11).  But,  in  considering  his  character,  wre 
must  bear  in  mind  that  ive  know  not  what  limits  w'ere 
set  in  those  days  to  the  knowledge  of  God  and  the  sanc- 
tifying infinence  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  A timid,  thought- 
ful boy  would  acquire  no  self-reliance  in  a secluded 
home.  There  was  little  scope  for  the  exercise  of  intel- 
ligence, wide  sympathy,  generosity,  frankness.  Growing 


JACOB 


JACOB 


734 


JACOB 


BeDjamin 


Ashbel 

Ahiram 


Joseph  1 1 


Names. 


(?  Kaphah) 

Ard 

(Addar) 

(?  ? Ezbon) 
Naaman 
(?  S'  Uzzi) 

Gera 

(?  ? Uzziel) 
[Abisliua] 

(?  ? Jerimoth) 
[Ahoah] 

(Ahiah) 

(?  ? Iri) 

[Uzza] 

[Abihud] 

<y  Ahihud) 
[Bilhan] 
[Hushiin] 
Shnpham 
(Shuppim) 

(?  Shephuphan) 
(Mnppim) 

(?  ? Zemira) 
Hupham 
(Huppim) 

(?  Huram) 

(?  ? Joash) 
[Eliezer] 
[Elioeiiai] 

[Ornri] 

[Jerimoth] 

[Abiah] 

[Anathoth] 

[Alameth] 

[Maachah,  fem.] 


[ Benjamin ] 
Joseph 
Manasseh 
Ephraim 


up  a stranger  to  the  great  joys  and  great  sorrows  of 
uatural  life — deaths, and  wedlock,  and  births;  inured  to 
caution  and  restraint  in  the  presence  of  a more  vigorous 
brother;  secretly  stimulated  bv  a belief  that  God  de- 
signed for  him  some  superior  blessing,  Jacob  was  per- 
haps in  a fair  way  to  become  a narrow,  selfish,  deceitful, 
disappointed  man.  Hut,  after  dwelling  for  more  than 
half  a lifetime  in  solitude,  he  is  driven  from  home  by 
the  provoked  hostility  of  his  more  powerful  brother. 
Then,  in  deep  and  bitter  sorrow,  the  outcast  begins  life 
afresh  long  after  youth  has  passed,  and  finds  himself 
brought  first  of  all  unexpectedly  into  that  close  personal 
communion  with  God  which  elevates  the  soul,  and  then 
into  that  enlarged  intercourse  with  men  which  is  capa- 
ble of  drawing  out  all  the  better  feelings  of  human  na- 
ture. An  unseen  world  was  opened.  God  revived  and 
renewed  to  him  that  slumbering  promise,  over  which  he 
had  brooded  for  threescore  years  since  he  had  learned  it 
in  childhood  from  his  mother.  Angels  conversed  with 
him.  Gradually  he  felt  more  and  more  the  watchful 
care  of  an  ever-present  spiritual  Father.  Face  to  face 
he  wrestled  with  the  representative  of  the  Almighty. 
And  so,  even  though  the  moral  consequences  of  his  early 
transgressions  hung  about  him,  and  saddened  him  with 
a deep  knowledge  of  all  the.  evil  of  treachery  and  domes- 
tic envy,  and  partial  judgment,  and  filial  disobedience, 
yet  the  increasing  revelations  of  God  enlightened  the 
old  age  of  the  patriarch;  and  at  last  the  timid  ‘“sup- 
planter,"  the  man  of  subtle  devices,  waiting  for  the  sal- 
vation of  Jehovah,  dies  the  “soldier  of  God,”  uttering 
the  messages  of  God  to  his  remote  posterity.  (SeeNie- 
mever,  Charakt.  ii,  2(10  sq. ; Stanley,  Jewish  Church,  i,  58 
sq.)  For  reflections  on  various  incidents  in  Jacob’s  life, 
see  Bp.  Hall’s  Contemplations , bk.  iii ; Blunt,  Hist,  of  Ja- 
cob (Bond.  1HJ2, 18f>»). 

Many  Rabbinical  legends  concerning  Jacob  may  be 
found  in  Eisenmenger's  Ent.  Judenth ..  and  in  the  Jerusa- 
lem 1 argum . (See  also  Otho,  Lex.  Itabb.  p.  28G ; Hambur- 


ger, Talmud.  Wbrterb.  s.  v.).  In  the  Koran  he  is  often 
mentioned  in  conjunction  with  the  other  two  patriarchs 
(chap,  ii,  and  elsewhere).  See  Mohammedanism. 

JACOB  also  occurs  in  certain  poetical  and  conven- 
tional phrases,  borrowed  from  the  relations  of  the  patri- 
arch to  the  theocracy  and  state.  **  God  of  Jacob," 
(Exod.  iii,  6;  iv,  5;  2 Sam.  xxiii,  I ; I’sa. 
xx,  2;  Isa.  ii,  3);  or  simply  “Jacob”  (Psa.  xxiv,  6, 
where  the  term  appears  to  have  fallen  out  of  the 

text);  also  “ mighty  One  of  Jacob,”  -p"?  “PpX  (Psa. 
cxxxii,  2),  are  titles  of  Jehovah  as  the  national  deity. 
“Jacob”  frequently  stands  for  his  posterity  or  the  Isra- 
elitish  people;  but  poetically  chiefiv,  “ house  of  Jacob,” 
2p“^  (Exod.  xix,  3;  Isa.  ii,  5,  6;  viii,  17;  Amos 
iii,  13;  ix,  8;  Mic.  ii,  7 ; Obad.  17,  IS),  “seed  of  Jacob,” 
apa?  “ “T  (Isa.  xlv,  19;  Jer.  xxxiii,  2(5),  “sons  of  Ja- 
cob,” ap>"  -:a  (1  Kings  xviii,  37 ; Mai.  iii,  6),  “con- 
gregation of  Jacob,”  aprp  rapp  (Ucut.  xxxiii,  4), 
and  simply  “Jacob,”  -pip1  (Numb,  xxiii,  7,  10,  21,  23; 
xxiv,  5, 17, 19;  Dent,  xxxii,  9 ; xxxiii,  10;  Psa.  xiv,  7, 
11;  xliv,  5;  Isa.  xxvii,  6,  9 ; Jer.  x,  25;  xxxi,  11;  Amos 
vi,  8;  vii,  2;  viii,  7),  all  put  for  the  house  or  family  of 
Jacob;  whence  the  expression  “in  Jacob,”  apa"a  (Gen. 
xlix,  7 ; Lam.  ii,  3),  i.  e.  among  the  Jewish  people.  Verj' 
generally  the  name  is  used  for  the  people  as  an  individ- 
ual, and  with  the  epithets  appropriate  to  their  patriar- 
chal progenitor,  e.  g.  “Jacob,  my  servant”  (Isa.  xliv,  1 ; 
xlv,  4;  xlviii,  20;  Jer.  xxx,  10;  xlvi,  27,  28),  “Jacob, 
thy  (Edom’s)  brother”  (Obad.  10).  In  like  manner  with 
the  term  Israel,  “Jacob”  is  even  spoken  of  the  kingdom 
of  Ephraim,  which  had  arrogated  to  itself  the  title  prop- 
er only  to  the  entire  nation  (Isa.  ix,  7 ; xvii,  4;  Mic.  i, 
5;  Hos.  x,  11 ; xii,  3) ; and,  after  the  destruction  of  the 
northern  kingdom,  the  same  expression  is  employed  of 
the  remaining  kingdom  of  Judah  (Nah.ii,3;  Obad.  18). 


JACOB 


735 


JACOB 


— Gesenius.  See  Isham,  Discriminative  uses  of  “Jacob” 
and  “Israel”  (Lond,  1854).  Comp.  Israel. 

JACOB’S  WELL  (irt]yt)  rov  '1  ajciu/3),  on  the  curb 
c.f  which  Christ  sat  down  during  his  interview  with  the 
Samaritan  woman  of  Sychar  (John  iv,  6).  It  was  a 
deep  spring  (ver.  11)  in  the  vicinity  of  Shechem,  near 
the  road  from  Jerusalem,  probably  so  called  from  having 
been  dug  by  the  patriarch  Jacob  (ver.  8, 28)  when  dwell- 
ing in  this  neighborhood  (Gen.  xxxiii,  18).  It  is  still 
known  by  the  same  title,  about  half  a mile  south-east 
of  Nablits  (Kobinson’s  Researches,  iii,  112),  at  the  foot 
of  Mount  Gerizim  (Arvieux,  ii,  66;  Schubert,  iii,  136). 
It  is  bored  through  the  solid  rock,  and  kept  covered 
with  a stone  by  the  Arabs  (see  Hackett’s  Illustrations, 
p.  199  sq.).  It  is  thus  described  by  Porter  in  Murray’s 
llamlbook  for  Syria,  ii,  340:  “Formerly  there  was  a 
square  hole  opening  into  a carefully  built  vaulted  cham- 
ber, about  ten  feet  square,  in  the  floor  of  which  was  the 
true  mouth  of  the  well.  Now  a portion  of  the  vault  has 
fallen  and  completely  covered  up  the  mouth,  so  that 
nothing  can  be  seen  but  a shallow  pit,  half  filled  with 
stones  and  rubbish.”  Dr.  Wilson  ( Lands  of  the  Bible,  ii, 
57)  carefully  measured  the  well,  and  found  it  nine  feet 
in  diameter,  and  seventy-five  feet  deep.  It  was  proba- 
bly much  deeper  in  ancient  times,  as  there  are  signs  of 
considerable  accumulation  of  stones  and  rubbish  below 
its  present  bottom ; and  Maundrell  (March  24)  says  that 
in  his  time  it  was  thirty-five  yards,  or  one  hundred  and 
five  feet  deep.  It  contains  at  times  a few  feet  of  wa- 
ter, but  at.  others  it  is  quite  dry.  Over  the  well  there 
formerly  stood  a large  church,  built  in  the  4th  century, 
but  probably  destroyed  before  the  time  of  the  Crusades, 
as  Sicwulf  (p.  45)  and  Phocas  do  not  mention  it.  Its 
remains  are  just  above  the  well,  towards  the  south-west, 
merely  a shapeless  mass  of  ruins,  among  which  are  seen 
fragments  of  gray  granite  columns  still  retaining  their 
ancient  polish  (Kobinson’s  Biblical  Researches,  iii,  132). 
(For  older  descriptions,  see  Hamcsveld,  ii,  396  sq.)  See 
Shecheji. 

2.  Jacob  (’I«kw/3)  was  the  name  of  the  father  of  Jo- 
seph, the  husband  of  the  Virgin  Mary  (Matt,  i,  15,  lo). 
B.C.  ante  40.  See  Mary. 

Jacob  of  Edessa  (so  called  after  the  name  of  his 
residence),  one  of  the  most  celebrated  Syrian  writers 
and  theologians,  flourished  in  the  second  half  of  the  7th 
century,  lie  was  born  in  the  village  of  Indaba  (in  An- 
tioch), and  in  early  life  entered  the  monastic  order. 
About  the  year  651  he  was  appointed  bishop  of  Edessa; 
but  his  zeal  for  the  cause  of  the  Church  often  led  him 
astray,  and  he  made  many  enemies  among  the  clergy, 
and  finally  resigned  the  episcopal  dignity,  retiring  to  a 
life  of  seclusion  in  a monastery  at  Toledo.  He  now  be- 
gan an  extended  study  of  the  Sj-riac  Version  of  the  Old 
Testament,  and  made  many  valuable  corrections  and 
annotations,  of  which  parts  still  remain  to  us  (compare 
Sylvestre  de  Sacv,  in  Eichhorn’s  Biblioth.  d.  bill.  Litter. 
viii,  571  sq. ; Notices  et  extra  its  des  MSS.  iv,  648  sq.; 
Eichhorn,  Bibl.  d.  bibl.  Lit.  ii,  270 ; the  same,  Einl.  in  d. 
A.  T.  ii,  § 260  sq.).  After  the  decease  of  his  successor 
at  Edessa  he  was  invited  to  reassume  the  duties  of  the 
bishopric,  but  he  died  while  on  his  journey,  June  5,  708. 
Jacob  of  Edessa  was  a zealous  advocate  of  Monophvsi- 
tism,  and  he  is  greatly  revered  by  the  Jacobites  (q.v.), 
while  he  is  highly  esteemed  also  by  the  Maronites.  lie 
was  distinguished  for  his  thorough  knowledge  of  the 
Syriac,  Hebrew,  and  Greek,  and  translated  a number  of 
Greek  works  into  Syriac,  a task  which  he  so  ably  dis- 
charged that  he  was  honored  with  the  surname  of  “in- 
terpreter of  the  books”  (in  the  Syriac,  NZjrz'l  iOp’^Ep). 
He  wrote  commentaries  and  scholia  on  the  O.  T.  and  N. 
T.,  of  which  extracts  are  contained  in  the  works  of 
Ephraem  (comp.  Assemani,  Biblioth.  Orient,  i,  476  sq.). 
See  Herzog,  Real- Encyliopadie,  vi,  379  sq. ; Halle  Ency- 
klopddie,  2d  sect,  xiii,  165-167.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jacob  of  Hungary,  surnamed  the  Master,  a fa- 
natic and  adventurer,  and  the  chief  of  the  Pastoureaux 


or  Shepherds,  is  supposed  to  have  been  a native  of 
Hungary,  though  nothing  definite  is  known  as  to  his 
origin.  In  his  youth  he  joined  the  Cistercian  order, 
but  is  said  to  have  afterwards  embraced  Islamism  : this, 
however,  is  a matter  of  doubt,  some  even  reversing  the 
order  of  his  conversion  from  one  faith  to  the  other.  He 
was  also  represented  as  having  learned  the  occult  arts 
from  the  Moors  of  Spain, and  also  as  having  been  a traitor 
to  France.  At  any  rate,  we  find  him  at  Easter,  A. I).  1251, 
heading  a popular  movement  in  favor  of  king  St.  Louis, 
then  a prisoner  at  Ciesarea.  The  king,  apparently  for- 
saken by  the  nobility  and  clergy,  was  the  idol  of  the 
people.  Jacob  travelled  through  the  provinces,  preach- 
ing a crusade  in  which  none  but  the  poor  and  lowly 
should  take  part,  God  having  forsaken  the  opulent  and 
the  great  on  account  of  their  pride,  and  the  clergy  on 
account  of  their  licentiousness,  lie  claimed  to  have 
visions,  to  have  received  a direct  message  from  the  Vir- 
gin, etc.  “ He  was  an  aged  man,”  says  Mihnan,  “with 
a long  beard,  and  pale,  emaciated  face;  he  spoke  Latin, 
French,  and  German  with  the  same  fluent  persuasive- 
ness; he  preached  without  authority  of  pope  or  prelate.” 
The  eloquence  of  the  Master  of  Hungary  stirred  the 
lowest  depths  of  society.  The  shepherds,  the  peasants, 
left  their  flocks,  their  stalls,  their  fields,  their  ploughs; 
in  vain  friends,  parents,  wives  remonstrated ; they  took 
no  thought  of  sustenance.  So,  drawing  men  after  him 
“ as  the  loadstone  draws  the  iron,”  he  soon  had  a large 
number  of  followers,  who  received  the  name  of  Pastou- 
rels  or  Pastoureaux,  from  the  fact  that  the  first  and  the 
most  of  his  followers  were  shepherds  or  peasants.  Both 
the  magistrates  and  queen  Blanche,  thinking  they 
might  become  instrumental  in  securing  the  liberation 
of  the  king,  encouraged  them  for  a time.  Soon,  how- 
ever, their  ranks  were  swelled  by  a number  of  vagrants, 
thieves,  highwaymen,  and  all  the  scum  of  the  popula- 
tion, attracted  by  the  prospect  of  spoils.  They  had 
started  from  Flanders  in  the  direction  of  Paris,  and  when 
they  reached  Amiens  they  numbered  30,000.  These 
recruits  wore  daggers,  swords,  battle-axes,  and  all  the 
implements  of  warfare.  Received  and  entertained  by 
the  citizens  of  Amiens,  they  gained  new  adherents,  and 
their  number  swelled  to  50,000,  and  on  their  arrival  at 
the  gates  of  Paris  they  were  a formidable  band  of  100,000 
armed  meh.  Sismondi  says : “ Their  hatred  of  the 
priests  was  as  great  as  their  hatred  of  the  infidels.  They 
had  preachers  who  never  had  been  ordained ; their 
teachings  were  far  from  orthodox,  and  they  assumed 
the  right  of  setting  aside  ecclesiastical  discipline;  they 
granted  divorces,  and  permitted  marriages  which  the 
priests  denounced  as  contrary  to  the  canons.”  They 
were  especially  bitter  against  the  monastic  orders,  and 
a number  of  monks  were  murdered  by  them.  The  au- 
thorities began  to  regret  having  encouraged  them ; yet 
they  were  allowed  to  enter  Paris,  and  Jacob  went  so  far 
as  to  officiate  publicly  in  the  church  of  St.  Eustache. 
Several  murders  marked  their  stay  in  the  capital.  Find- 
ing his  forces  considerably  increased,  Jacob  divided 
them  into  several  bands,  under  pretense  of  embarking 
them  at  different  points  for  the  Holy  Land.  One  of 
these  bands  went  to  Orleans,  where  they  massacred  all 
the  priests  and  monks  they  could  find;  and  thence  to 
Bourges,  where,  the  priests  carefully  keeping  out  of  the 
way,  they  attacked  the  Jews,  demolishing  their  syna- 
gogues and  plundering  their  houses.  Effective  meas- 
ures were  at  last  taken  to  put  a stop  to  these  excesses. 
They  were  excommunicated  by  the  Church,  and  the 
authorities  invited  the  people  to  arm  against  and  war 
on  them.  Jacob  was  still  in  the  capital.  One  day,  by 
order  of  the  queen,  an  executioner  mingled  with  the 
crowd  who  surrounded  him,  and,  while  he  was  preach- 
ing, cut  off  his  head  with  a single  blow  of  the  axe.  At 
the  same  time,  a number  of  knights  charged  on  his  fol- 
lowers, who  were  dispersed.  The  other  bands  met  with 
the  same  fate,  and  an  end  was  put  at  the  same  time  to 
the  depredations  and  to  the  sect.  See  Matthew  Paris, 
Hist.  Anglice ; Guillaume  de  Nangis,  Chron.  in  Spicil.; 


736 


JACOB 


JACOB 

Matthew  of  Westminster ,Histona;  Chron.de  St.  Denys; 
Sismondi,  llist.  des  Frangais , vii,  475  sq. ; Dufcv,  Diet, 
de  la  Conversation,  article  Pastoureaux ; Hoefer,  Xouv. 
Bio,/.  Generate,  xxvi,  1G7  sq. ; Milman,  Latin  Christian- 
ity, vi,  57  sq.;  Semler,  Versuch  e. Kirchengesch.i,  545  sq. 
(J.I1.W.) 

Jacob  OF  Juterbock  (or  Jacobus  Cisterciensis,  etc.) 
was  bom  at  Jiiterbock  about  13*3.  When  yet  quite 
young  he  entered  the  Cistercian  monastery  De  Para- 
diso,  situated  in  Poland,  and  afterwards  went  to  Cracow 
to  procure  the  doctorate.  Distinguished  for  scholarship 
and  piety,  he  soon  became  the  acknowledged  leader 
among  his  fellow  monks,  and  was  finally  elected  abbot 
of  his  convent.  Some  time  after  he  removed  to  Prague, 
but,  growing  dissatisfied  with  the  many  failings  of  men 
who  professed  to  have  quitted  the  world  to  seek  an  alli- 
ance with  God,  but  who,  in  truth,  had  only  entered  the 
monastic  order  because  it  was  the  road  to  distinction,  he 
advocated  a reform  of  the  Church,  and  at  one  time  even 
fostered  the  thought  of  forsaking  the  monastic  life  alto- 
gether. He  changed  to  the  Carthusian  order,  removed 
to  one  of  their  monasteries  at  Erfurt,  was  here  also 
greatly  beloved  for  his  superior  abilities,  and  became 
prior  of  the  monastery.  lie  died  in  1645.  Jacob  of  Ju- 
terbock  may  be  justly  regarded  an  associate  of  the  mys- 
tics of  the  14th  century,  and  virtually  a forerunner  of  the 
Deformation — one  of  the  Johns  preparing  the  way  for 
Luther.  Characteristic  of  his  efforts  for  a reformatory 
movement  are  his  Sermones  notabiles  et  formates  de  tem- 
pore et  de  sanctis  :■ — Libelli  tres  de  arte  curandi  vilia  (in 
Joh.Wesseli  Opp.,  Xm&t.  1617): — Liber  de  veritate  dicen- 
da: — Tract.de  causis  mult  arum  passionum  (in  Pezelii 
Bibliotlu  ascet.  vii)  : — De  indulgentiis : — De  negligentici 
Prcelatorum  (in  Walch,  Monum.  med.  eer.  ii,  Fasc.  1) : — 
De  septem  ecclesice  stutibus  opusculum  (Walch,  Fasc.  2). 
Especially  in  the  last  work  he  declares  that  a reform 
of  the  Church  could  only  be  effected  by  subjecting  the 
whole  clergy,  from  the  pope  downward,  to  a thorough 
change,  lie  vehemently  opposed  the  absolute  power  of 
the  papal  chair,  the  right  of  the  pope  to  control  the 
councils,  and  naturally  enough  denied  the  infallibility 
of  the  so-called  “vicar  of  Christ.”  See  Ullmann,  Re- 
formers before  the  Reformation,  i,  208,  250 ; Trithemii 
Catal.  illustr.  virorum,  i ; llerzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  380, 
381  ; Bibliotheca  Sacra,  i,  434  sq. 

Jacob  of  London,  a Jewish  Rabbi  who  flourished 
in  England  at  the  opening  of  the  13th  century,  was  ap- 
pointed by  king  John,  at  the  commencement  of  his 
reign,  when  yet  friendly  to  the  Jews,  and  uninfluenced 
by  the  diabolical  exertions  of  the  Roman  prelate  Ste- 
phen Langton,  as  chief  Rabbi  of  England  (“  presbvtera- 
tus  omnium  Jiuheorum  totins  Angliie”).  Jacob  was  a 
man  of  great  learning,  especially  conversant  with  Jew- 
ish tradition,  and  held  in  high  esteem  by  Jews  and  Gen- 
tiles. Even  the  king  hesitated  not  to  call  him  his  dear 
friend  (“dilectus  et  familiaris  noster”).  Unfortunately, 
we  have  no  knowledge  of  any  of  his  literary  produc- 
tions, which,  by  a man  of  bis  abilities,  must  have  been 
valuable,  especially  as  an  index  to  the  history  of  the 
Jews  in  England  under  king  John.  Sec  Griitz,  Gesch.  d. 
Juden,  vii,  16.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jacob  of  Mies  (Jacobus  de.  Misa,  also  called,  on 
account  of  his  small  stature,  Jacobelhts,  i.  c.  Jacob  the 
Short),  one  of  the  most  prominent  figures  in  the  polem- 
ical controversy  inaugurated  by  Iluss,  was  born  about 
the  second  half  of  the  14th  century,  at  51  isa,  in  Bohe- 
mia.  lie  was  educated  at  the  University  of  Prague, 
and  then  became  priest  at  Trina,  and  ultimately  at 
Prague.  At  the  instigation  of  Petrus  Dresdensis,  the 
Waldensian,  he  was  led  to  inquire  into  the  antiquity 
of  the  Roman  Catholic  mode  of  administering  the  sac- 
rament, and,  after  a careful  study  of  the  writings  of 
the  early  Church,  became  convinced  that  the  Roman 
Church  had  no  right  or  authority  to  deprive  the  laity  of 
the  cup,  and  by  his  tongue  and  by  his  pen  he  preached 
against  the  malpractice,  himself  also  deviating  from  the 


usage,  and  administering  the  cup  to  the  laity.  Excom- 
municated by  the  archbishop  of  Prague,  he  challenged 
the  university  authorities  to  refute  his  arguments,  and 
further  defended  his  course  by  his  pen : Vindiciie  stu 
Replicatt.  contra  Andreas  Brodam.  The  approbation 
which  his  course  received  from  the  people  seemed  rath- 
er serious  to  the  Council  of  Constance,  just  then  in  ses- 
sion, and  every  effort  was  made  to  refute  Jacob  of  Mies. 
But  soon  Huss  also  came  forward,  and  declared  that  the 
early  fathers  had  been  taught  by  the  disciples  that 
Christ  desired  both  the  wine  and  the  bread  to  be  given 
to  the  laity,  and  when  arraigned  as  a heretic  before  the 
bar  of  the  council,  he  still  continued  to  reiterate  his  for- 
mer statements  (compare  Hist,  et  Monum.  J.  Hus  atque 
llieron.  Pragensis,  Norimb.  1715,  i,  52  sq. ; V.  d.  Hardt, 
Magnum  vecumenicum  Constantiense  Concilium,  etc.,  iv, 
291).  Jacob  of  Mies,  thus  encouraged  by  the  attitude 
of  Huss,  a classmate  of  bis  at  the  university,  more 
vigorously  than  ever  defended  his  position,  and  sought 
further  to  prove  the  accuracy  of  his  statements  in  Dem- 
onstratio  per  testimonia  Scriptures  patrum  atque  docto- 
rum  cominunicationem  calicis  in  plebe  Christiana  esse  ne- 
cessarium  (in  Y.  d.  llardt,  iii,  804  sq.).  Of  course  his 
opponents  could  not  long  continue  in  silence,  and  they 
naturally,  though  awkwardly  enough,  endeavored  to  re- 
fute him  by  proofs  from  the  Bible  and  the  Church  fa- 
thers. Perhaps  the  most  able,  i.  e.  the  most  ridiculous 
of  all,  and  the  most  vehement  of  the  opposition  docu- 
ments, was  an  anonymous  Epistola  Elenchtica  (in  V.  d. 
Hardt).  There  were  even  some  who  attempted  to  prove 
that  the  deprivation  of  the  cup  had  its  sanction  in  the 
Old-Test.  Scriptures!  Thereupon  the  council  convened 
at  Constance  (the  13th  session,  June  15, 1415)  again  con- 
demned the  course  of  Jacob  of  Mies,  although  it  virtu- 
ally admitted  all  that  he  claimed  for  the  laity  (see  Giese- 
ler,  Kirchen  Gesch.  II,  ii,  227  sq.,  in  the  4th  edit.).  Ja- 
cob again  defended  his  course  by  an  Apologia  pro  com- 
munions jdebis,  which  was  replied  to  by  the  celebrated 
Gerson  in  his  Conc.publ.  causam  J.de  Misa  et  Bohemo - 
rum  quoad  communionis  laicalis  sub  utraque  specie  neves - 
sitatem  uberius  discutiendi.  Notwithstanding  the  fre- 
quent denunciations  of  his  course,  he  continued  to  hold 
his  parish,  and  even  took  up  his  pen  in  behalf  of  many 
other  peculiar  doctrines  of  the  Romanists.  Thus  he 
opposed  the  'Waldensians  on  the  doctrine  of  purgatory 
and  the  mass,  in  De  purgatorio  animee  post  mortem 
(in  Walch,  Monum.  medii  eevi,  i,  fasc.  iii,  p.  1 sq.).  He 
also  wrote  De  juramento,  de  antichristo,  and  prepared 
a translation  of  the  works  of  Wycliffe.  lie  died  at 
Prague,  Aug.  9,  1429.  The  result  of  the  controversy  on. 
the  cup  resulted,  as  is  well  known,  in  a triumph  for  Ja- 
cob of  Mies  and  for  Iluss.  See  51  art  ini,  Diss.de  J.  de 
Misa,  etc.,  primo  Eucharist.  Calicis  per  eccles.  Boh.  vin - 
dice  (Altdorf,  1753, 4to) ; Spittler,  Gesch.  d.  Kelchs  i.  lieil. 
Abendmahl,  p.  49  sq. ; Schrdckh,  Kirchengesch.  xxxiii, 
332  sq.;  Herzog,  Real-Encyklopadie,  vi,  391  sq.;  Gillett, 
Life  of  Iluss  (1*71,  2 vols.  8vo).  (J.  II.  W.) 

J acob  of  Nisibis  (often  surnamed  Jacob  the  Greaf), 
the  instructor  of  Ephraem  the  Syrian,  and  a relative  of 
Gregory  the  illuminator,  flourished  as  bishop  of  Nisibis 
(Zoba)  in  the  first  half  of  the  4th  century.  The  little 
that  is  known  of  him  makes  him  out  to  have  been  a 
man  “distinguished  for  ascetic  holiness  and  for  mirac- 
ulous works,”  clothed,  of  course,  like  many  of  the  early 
characters,  in  such  a mythical  dress  that  the  character 
is  often  placed  in  a most  ridiculous  light  (comp.  Stan- 
ley, Eastern  Church,  p.  193).  In  his  early  life  he  “ spent 
many  years  as  a hermit  in  forests  and  caves,  and  lived 
like  a wild  beast  on  roots  and  leaves,”  clothed  in  a rough 
goat’s-hair  cloak;  and  this  dress  and  mode  of  life  he  is 
said  to  have  continued  even  after  he  became  bishop  of 
Nisibis.  That  he  enjoyed  the  confidence  and  esteem  of 
his  contemporaries  is  evinced  by  the  fact  that  lie  was  a 
member  of  the  Council  of  Nicsoa  (Assemani,  Bibl.  Or.  i, 
169;  iii,  587),  and  by  the  distinction  which  he  received 
at  the  hand  of  the  emperor,  who  called  him  one  of  the 
three  pillars  of  the  world  (comp.  Schaff,  Ch.  History,  iii 


JACOB  V i 

269).  He  died  about  338.  As  a writer,  Jacob  of  Nisi- 
bis  harilly  gained  distinction;  his  authorship  is  even 
questioned  by  many.  A number  of  works  are  attributed 
to  him,  but  under  his  name  arc  preserved  only  an  Ar- 
menian translation  of  a letter  to  the  bishops  of  Seleucia 
and  eighteen  sermons,  of  which  a copy  was  prepared  by 
direction  of  Assemani  for  the  Vatican  (Bibl.  Or.  i,  557 
sq.,  632).  An  edition,  with  a Latin  translation  and 
notes,  was  prepared  and  published  by  cardinal  Antonelli 
(1756,  folio;  Venice,  1765;  Const.  1824).  See,  besides 
Schaff  and  Stanley,  Neumann,  Gesch.  d.  A rmen.  Lit.  p. 
18  sq.;  Biographic  Universelle , art.  Jacques  de  Nisibe; 
Herzog,  Real-Encyklopddie. , vi,  396.  (J.  1LW.) 

Jacob  of  SarOg,  a celebrated  writer  and  teacher 
of  the  Syrian  Church,  was  born  at  Curtanum,  on  the 
Euphrates,  in  452.  He  was  made  a presbyter  in  503, 
and  attained  the  distinction  of  bishop  in  519.  lie 
was  honored  by  the  surname  of  “ doctor”  (Syr.  Mal- 
pdna ),  and  by  that  of  “the  universal”  (Syr.  Tibelita). 
lie  was  the  author  of  an  innumerable  number  of  works. 
Thus  no  less  than  763  homilies  in  verse  are  attributed 
to  him  (of  which  Barhebrscus  had  182),  besides  exposi- 
tions, an  anaphora,  a form  of  baptism,  hymns,  and  let- 
ters. But  evidently  many  works  are  falsely  attributed 
to  him,  as  Assemani  {Bill.  Orient,  ii,  332)  has  proved. 
Many  of  his  writings  are  preserved  in  the  Vatican.  He 
died  at  Sarug  Nov.  29,  521.  The  Jacobites  and  Maron- 
ites  both  commemorate  him,  and  the  former  hold  him, 
with  many  other  orthodox  teachers,  in  great  reverence, 
although  it  cannot  be  proved  that  he  in  the  least  devi- 
ated from  the  orthodox  course.  He  certainly  reproached 
Nestorius.  His  expositions  are  still  used  in  the  Syrian 
churches  at  public  worship,  and  have  also  been  translated 
into  Arabic.  Several  of  his  hymns  are  contained  in  the 
Brev.ferile  Syr.  and  in  the  Offic.  Domin.  (Rome,  1787). 
A poetic  eidogy  which  he  pronounced  on  Simeon  the  Sty- 
lite  has  been  translated  into  German  by  Zingerlc  (in  his 
Leben  und  Wirken  des  heil.  Simeon  Stylises,  Innsbr.  1855, 
8vo,  p.  279-298).  See  Etheridge,  Syr.  Churches  (Lond. 
1846, 12mo),  p.  241  sq. ; Herzog,  Real-Encyklopadie , vi, 
397. 

Jacob  of  Vitry  (, Jacobus  de  Vitriaco,  or  Jacobus 
Vitriacus),  so  named  after  his  native  place,  was  born  in 
the  second  half  of  the  12th  century.  He  was  a pres- 
byter at  the  village  of  Argenteuil,  near  Paris,  when, 
attracted  by  the  celebrated  sanctity  of  Maria  of  Og- 
nies,  he  removed  to  her  place  of  residence,  the  diocese 
of  Liege.  She  received  him  kindly,  and  influenced  him 
to  take  a position  in  the  diocese.  At  the  request  of  the 
pope  he  began  preaching  against  the  Albigenses,  and 
finally  devoted  himself  to  the  interests  of  the  sacred  tomb 
at  Jerusalem,  travelling  through  France  to  levy  contri- 
butions. While  thus  engaged  he  was  elected  bishop  of 
Acre,  and  at  the  request  of  pope  Ilonorius  III  went  to 
the  Holy  Land,  lie  there  performed  a noble  work: 
among  other  things,  he  provided  for  the  children  of  the 
Saracens  whom  the  Christians  had  taken,  baptized 
them,  and  intrusted  them  to  the  care  of  pious  Christian 
women.  After  the  retirement  of  the  Christians  from 
Damietta,  he  resigned  in  1225  the  episcopal  office,  and 
returned  to  Ognies.  In  1229  pope  Gregory  IX  appoint- 
ed him  cardinal  and  papal  legate  of  France,  Brabant, 
and  the  Holy  Land.  lie  died  at  Rome  May  1,  1240. 
The  writings  of  Jacob  de  Vitry  are  valuable.  He  prof- 
ited greatly  by  liis  stay  in  the  Holy  Land,  gathering 
much  of  the  material  necessary  for  the  preparation  of 
his  principal  work,  the  llistoria  Orient  alls,  generally  en- 
titled History  of  Jerusalem , published  entire  as  “Cura 
Andre®  Hoji  Brugensis”  (1597) ; also  by  Mar  tone  and  Du- 
rand, Thesaur.  nov.  Anecdotorum , t.  iii  (Par.  1717).  This 
work  of  J acob  de  Vitry  is  divided  into  three  parts.  The 
first  contains  the  history  (this  as  well  as  the  others  are 
mainly  ecclesiastical)  of  Jerusalem  in  brief;  the  second, 
a short  review  of  the  history  of  the  West,  paying  par- 
ticular attention  to  the  history  of  the  different  Church 
orders,  and  the  extent  and  value  of  pilgrimages;  in  the 
IV.— A A A 


7 JACOB 

third  he  returns  to  the  East,  and,  beginning  with  the 
General  Lateran  Couucil,  closes  with  the  surrender  of 
Damietta.  This  last  part  of  the  work  does  not  seem  to 
be  the  production  of  Jacob,  but,  in  all  probability,  was 
written  by  some  other  hand,  to  add  to  the  completeness 
of  the  work.  Ceillier,  however,  attributes  the  whole 
work  to  Jacob,  and  defends  his  view  by  stating,  in  com- 
mendation of  part  third,  “ L’auteur  avait  vu  de  ses  yeiix 
ce  qu’il  raconte”  (in  accordance  with  the  statement  in 
the  preface  of  the  work,  p.  1048).  This  work  has  been 
translated  into  French,  and  inserted  in  the  Collection  des 
memoires  relatifs  it  Vliistoire  de  France,  tom.  xxii.  His 
letters  are  also  of  great  importance  to  the  historian : 
Jacobi  de  Vitriaco  epistola  missa  in  Lotharingiam  de 
capitione  Damiutm  (published  by  Bongarsius  in  the  first 
part  of  the  Gesta  Dei  per  Francos ),  and  Ejusdem  epistolce 
quatuor  ad  Honorium  III  Papam  (in  Martene  and  Du- 
rand’s above-named  work,  and  same  volume) ; a life  of 
the  celebrated  St.  Mary  of  Oguies;  and  sermons  on  the 
Gospels  and  Epistles,  of  which  a portion  was  published 
at  Antwerp  in  1575.  See  Ceillier,  / list,  des  A uteurs  Sa- 
cres , xiii,  537  sq. ; Bibliotheca  Belgica,  i,  542 ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyklopadie,  vi,  398.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jacob  de  Voragine,  archbishop  of  Genoa,  and  au- 
thor of  the  Legenda  aurea,  was  born  at  Viraggio,  near 
Genoa,  in  1230.  He  joined  the  preaching  friars  at  Ge- 
noa in  1244,  and  became  provincial  of  the  order  for  Lom- 
bardy in  1267.  For  services  rendered  to  the  Church 
and  to  his  order  in  different  circumstances,  he  was  final- 
ly made  archbishop  of  Genoa  in  1292,  and  died  in  1298. 
His  reputation  rests  exclusively  on  a compilation  of  le- 
gends which  he  wrote  under  the  title  of  Legenda  Sanc- 
torum, or  Legenda  aurea  (also  known  as  the  llistoria 
Longobardica , on  account  of  a short  Lombard  chron- 
icle it  contains,  attached  to  the  life  of  pope  Pelagius). 
The  work  consists  of  a series  of  fanciful  biographies, 
some  compiled  from  older  works,  others  merely  made  up 
of  the  traditions  current  among  the  people  and  in  con- 
vents. Many  of  the  elements  of  these  biographies  are 
taken  from  apocryphal  Gospels,  Acts  of  the  Apostles, 
and  martyrologies,  and  are  to  be  found  in  other  anterior 
and  contemporary  works,  such  as  the  Passional,  the  le- 
gends of  Mary,  etc.  Some  of  them  are  inventions  of 
the  Middle  Ages,  and  show  how  quickly  fables  become 
mixed  up  with  history:  such  are  the  lives  of  Dominic 
and  of  Francis  of  Assisi.  These  legends  are,  moreover, 
entirely  devoid  of  poetic  beauty,  that  redeeming  feature 
of  many  works  of  this  kind.  Jacob  was  a mere  com- 
piler and  chronicler,  without  taste  and  without  talent;  a 
specimen  of  his  coarseness  is  to  be  found  in  what  he  re- 
lates of  Vespasian  in  his  life  of  the  apostle  James.  The 
only  original  part  of  the  work  is  the  preface  or  introduc- 
tion to  the  life  of  each  saint,  in  which  Jacob  attempts 
to  give  an  explanation  of  the  meaning  of  their  names , 
and  these  explanations  consist  in  wonderful  etymologies 
and  wild  speculations,  such  as  could  be  expected  from 
an  ignorant  monk  unacquainted  with  either  Greek  or 
Hebrew.  The  work  was  soon  esteemed  at  its  just  value. 
The  superior  of  the  order,  Berengarius  de  Laiulora,  sub- 
sequently archbishop  of  Compostella  (f  1330),  commis- 
sioned Bcrnardus  Gnidonis,  afterwards  bishop  of  Lodeve 
(f  1331),  to  write  a life  of  the  saints  from  authentic 
sources.  Bernardus,  who  was  a zealous  historian,  set  to 
work  and  produced  a Speculum  sanctorum  in  four  vol- 
umes. This,  however,  did  not  meet  with  much  success. 
The  Legenda  of  Jacob  became  the  Legenda  aurea,  and 
gained  in  popularity  not  only  because  it  was  shorter 
than  the  voluminous  compilation  of  Bernardus,  but  es- 
pecially on  account  of  its  extravagant  descriptions  and 
relations  of  miraculous  occurrences,  which  suited  the 
spirit  of  the  Middle  Ages  much  better  than  a plain, 
truthful  narration  of  facts.  Many  translations  of  it  were 
made  into  German,  French,  Italian,  Spanish,  and  Eng- 
lish, and  after  the  discovery  of  printing  many  editions 
of  it  were  published.  (See  Brunet,  Manuel  de  V amateur 
de  livres,  iv,  687  sq.  The  latest  edition  is  by  Dr.  Grasse, 
librarian  of  the  king  of  Saxony,  Lpz.  1845, 8vo).  To  us 


JACOB  BEX-CHAJIM 


738 


JACOB  BEX -ABB A-MARI 

the  book  is  very  important  as  an  index  to  the  supersti-  I 
tious  spirit  of  the  Middle  Ages.  Among  the  other  w orks  , 
of  Jacob  de  Voragine  we  may  ment  ion  Sermones  de  tem- 
pore et  quadragesimales  (Paris,  1500;  Venice,  1589,  2 
vols.) Sermones  de  dominicis per  annum  (Venice,  1544, 

4 to,  and  1560,  fob)  i—Quadragesimale  et  de  sanctis '(Ven- 
ice, 1002,2  vols.  4to) : — Sermones  de  Sanctis  (Lyon,  1494; 
Papke,  1500;  Venice,  1580)  i—Mariale  site  sermones  de 
B.  Maria  Yirgine  (Venice,  1497, 4to;  Paris,  1503;  May- 
ence,  1616, 4to) . The  latest  editions  of  his  collected  ser- 
mons appeared  at  Augsburg  (17 60, 4 vols.  fol.).  All  these 
sermons  are  mere  sketches;  those  on  the  saints  are  full 
of  fables,  and  can  be  considered  as  a sort  of  supplement 
to  the  Legenda  aurea;  the  160  sermons  on  Mary  treat, 
in  alphabetical  order,  of  the  virtues,  perfection,  and  mir- 
acles of  the  Virgin.  Lentz,  in  his  Gesch.  d.  Homiktik 
(Brunswick,  1839,  i,  257),  gives  a German  translation  of 
one  of  them  as  a specimen.  Jacob  also  wrote  in  defense 
of  the  Dominicans,  aud  doubtless  against  the  attacks  of 
St.  Amour,  a Defensorium  contra  impugnantes  Fratres 
Prcedicatores , quod  non  vivant  secundum  vitam  apostoli- 
cam  (Venice,  1 504).  An  abridgment  which  he  prepared 
of  the  Summa  virtutum  et  vitiorum  of  Wm.  Peraldus,  and 
his  Be  operibus  et  opusculis  S.  A ugustini  have  never 
been  printed  (Quetif  and  Echard,  i,  458).  His  chroni- 
cle of  Genoa,  down  to  1297,  has  been  published  by  Mu- 
ratori,  Scriptores  rerum  Italic . ix,  1 sq.  The  assertion, 
made  by  Sixtus  Senensis  ( Bibliotli . Sacra,  lib.  iv),  that 
Jacob  wrote  an  Italian  translation  of  the  Bible,  appears 
to  be  erroneous:  no  such  work  has  ever  been  found,  nor 
is  it  mentioned  by  contemporary  writers;  it  is,  more- 
over, highly  improbable  that  the  compiler  of  the  Legen- 
da aurea  should  have  considered  it  desirable  or  profita- 
ble to  give  the  fiction-loving  people  the  Scriptures  in 
the  vernacular.  See  Herzog,  Real- Encyklopadie,  vi, 
399. 

Jacob  ben-Abba-Mari  bex-Simox  (Simson), 
generally  known  as  Jacob  Anatoli  (Anatolio),  a 
Jewish  philosopher,  was  bom  in  Provence  in  the  latter 
half  of  the  12tli  century.  He  was  the  son-in-law  of  the 
celebrated  writer  Samuel  Ibn-Tibbon,  and,  like  him,  be- 
came an  ardent  follower  of  Maimonides.  In  early  life 
he  acquired  a thorough  knowledge  of  the  Arabic  lan- 
guage, and  this  enabled  him  to  translate  many  of  the 
philosophical  works  for  the  benefit  of  his  Jewish  breth- 
ren. But,  unlike  his  great  master,  he  was  inclined  to 
rationalism  to  such  a degree  that  he  set  about  attempt- 
ing to  explain  the  miracles  of  the  O.-T.  Scriptures  in  a 
natural  way.  His  fame  soon  spread  abroad,  and  when 
the  emperor  Frederick  II,  the  last  of  the  Ilolienstaufen, 
looked  about  for  a translator  of  Aristotle,  his  eyes  fell 
on  Anatoli,  and  he  was  invited  to  Naples,  and  paid  an 
annuity  from  the  emperor’s  private  purse  to  perform  the 
arduous  task,  or,  according  to  some,  to  assist  in  the  un- 
dertaking. He  prepared,  in  conjunction  with  Michael 
Scotus,  a translation  of  the  Greek  philosopher,  together 
with  the  commentary  by  the  Arabian  philosopher  Aver- 
roes  (Ibu-Roshd),  into  the  Latin  (comp.  Griitz,  Gesch . d. 
Juden,  vii,  105,  note  1 ; Roger  Bacon,  Opera,  ii,  140 ; Re- 
nan, A verroes  et  V Averroisme,  p.  163  sq.).  Jacob  Ana- 
toli died  about  1250.  See  Scholasticism;  Scotus 
(Michael).  (J.H.W.) 

Jacob  ben-Asheri  bex-Jechiel  bex-Uri  bex- 
Eliakim  bex-Jehudah,  also  called  Baal  Hu-Turim, 
after  his  celebrated  ritual  work,  was  born  in  Germany 
about  A. I).  1280.  At  the  age  of  eighteen  he  was  an 
eye-witness  of  the  fearful  massacres  of  his  Jewish  bret*h- 
ren,  which  began  in  Bavaria  April  20,  1298,  under  the 
leadership  of  Rindfleisch,  and  soon  spread  over  France 
and  Austria,  and  by  which  more  than  100,000  persons 
were  slaughtered  in  less  than  six  months.  The  inse- 
curity of  the  lives  of  Jews  led  him  to  emigrate  in  1303. 
For  more  than  two  years  he. and  his  family  moved  from 
town  to  town,  until  they  found  a resting-place  at  Toledo, 
in  Spain.  Though  in  very  straitened  pecuniary  circum- 
stances, he  began  at  once  literary  labors,  and  as  the  re- 


sult we  have  (1)  A Commentary  on  the  Pentateuch  (£3*1*1  ■'B 
SVVinn  br),  the  basis  of  which  is  Nachmanides’s  expo- 
sition. “He  excluded  from  it  Naclimanides’s  pliilo- 
sophico-cabalistic  portions,  inserted  in  their  stead  re- 
marks of  Rashi,  Joseph  Cara,  Samuel  ben-Meier,  Abra- 
ham ben-Chija,  R.  Tam,  Aben-Ezra,  Joseph  Kimehi, 
Jehudah  the  Pious,  Simon  ben-Abraham,  Meier  of  Ro- 
thenburg,  R.  Asher,  the  father,  and  R.  Jehudah,  the 
brother  of  the  author,  as  well  as  glosses  of  his  own  at 
the  beginning  of  every  Sabbatic  section  [see  Haphta- 
rah],  which  chiefly  consist  of  explanations  of  words  and 
whole  sentences  according  to  the  hermeneutical  rule 
called  (i.  e.  reducing  every  letter  of  a word  to 

its  numerical  value,  and  explaining  it  by  another  word 
of  the  same  quantity  [see  Midrash],  and  which  he 
calls  niNPBPB,  dainty  supplements),  and  recondite  rea- 
sons for  the  critical  remarks  of  the  Masorites  upon  the 
text  (n“H“lO«ri  i £2 2).  This  work  is  of  great  import 
tance  to  the  understanding  of  the  original  design  of  the 
Masorah.  Such  was  the  extraordinary  popularity  of 
the  Gematrical  portions  of  this  commentary  that  they 
were  detached  from  the  exegetical  part  and  printed  in 
a separate  form  in  Constantinople  in  1514,  in  Venice  in 
1544,  and  have  since  appeared  not  only  in  the  Rabbinic 
Bibles  of  Bomberg  (Venice,  1546-48  and  1568),  of  Bux- 
torf  (Basle,  1617-19),  and  Frankfurter  (Amsterdam, 
1724-27),  under  the  title  of  S TSp 

O^Tl^Fl  bV2,  but  also  in  five  editions  of  the  Bible  be- 
tween 1595  and  1653,  and  in  no  less  than  twenty  differ- 
ent editions  of  the  Pentateuch  between  the  years  1566 
and  1804 — whereas  the  exegetical  part  was  not  publish- 
ed till  1805  at  Zolkiew,  and  again  in  1838  at  Hanover : 
— (2)  Fll'a^X,  a celebrated  religious  code,  so 

named  because  it  consists  of  four  parts  or  rows,  respec- 
tively denominated  D “1>in  mix,  the  way  of  life;  FI  TP 
nrn,  the  teacher  of  knowledge',  “IT”FI  *j£X,  the  stone  of 
help;  and  “'ITI,  the  breastplate  of  justice?  It 

treats  of  the  ritual,  moral,  matrimonial,  civil,  and  social 
observances  of  the  Jews,  and  is,  upon  the  whole,  a very 
remarkable  work;  for  a time  it  even  supplanted  the  Jod 
Ha-Chezaka  of  the  renowned  Maimonides,  and  became 
the  text-book  of  Jewish  Rabbins  throughout  the  entire 
known  world.  It  is  indispensable  to  the  student  of 
Jewish  antiquities,  and  we  refer  here  only  to  the  best 
editions  that  have  been  published  of  this  work  (Augs- 
burg, 1540 ; Hanover,  1610).  He  died  in  1340.  See 
Geiger,  Wissenschaftl.  Zeitung  IV  (Stuttg.  1839),  p.  395 
sq. ; Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  vii,  346  sq. ; Fiirst,  Bibliotli. 
Jud.  ii,  16  sq. ; Steinschneider,  Catal.  Libr.  llebr.  in  Bib- 
lioth.  Bodleiana,  col.  1181  sq.;  Kitto,  Cyclop.  Bibl.  Lit. 
ii,  452  sq. 

Jacob  ben-Cliajim  bex- Isaac  Ibx-Adoxia, 
a celebrated  Jewish  wTiter,  was  born  at  Tunis  about 
1470.  During  the  persecutions  of  the  Jews  in  the  first 
half  of  the  16th  century  he  was  obliged  to  flee  his  na- 
tive country',  and  he  went  to  Italy'.  After  residing  at 
Rome  and  Florence  he  removed  to  Venice,  and  engaged 
as  corrector  of  the  press  proofs  of  the  celebrated  Bom- 
berg edition  of  the  Rabbinic  Bible.  This  work  he  per- 
formed with  great  ability',  and  he  afterwards  published 
a second  edition  of  this  Bible  in  four  volumes  folio,  call- 
ed Bomberg' s Second  Rabbinic  Bible  (Venice,  1524-25). 
The  first  was  prepared  under  the  supervision  of  Felix 
Pratensis  (q.  v.).  It  contains  the  Hebrew  text,  with 
the  Masorah,  the  Targums,  the  commentaries  of  several 
of  the  most  noted  early'  Jewish  scholars,  and  copious  in- 
troductions, etc.,  by  the  editor  himself.  Jacob  ben- 
Chajim  deserves  especial  credit  for  the  able  manner  in 
which  he  labored  on  the  Masorah  (q.  v.),  displaying  uo 
small  amount  of  erudition,  sagacity,  and  patience.  With 
the  greatest  of  care  he  sifted  the  indigestible  material 
which  had  gathered  in  the  1st  and  2d  centuries,  and, 
having  brought  order  out  of  chaos,  he  inserted  it  upon 
the  margin  of  his  edition  of  the  Rabbinic  Bible.  In  af- 


JACOB  EMDEN 


JACOB  BEN-ELEAZAR  739 


ter  life  he  embraced  Christianity.  He  died  about  the 
middle  of  the  16th  century.  See  Kitto,  Joum.  Sac.  Lit. 
1863,  p.  521 ; Bill.  Cyclop,  ii,  453;  Kossi , Dizion.  storico 
deyli  Autori  Ebrei,  s.  v. ; Fi'irst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  ii,  17; 
Eichhorn,  Einleit.  in  d.  A.  T.  § 394.  See  Rabbinical 
Bibles.  (J.II.W.) 

Jacob  ben-Eleazar,  a Jewish  grammarian, 
flourished  at  Toledo  in  the  first  half  of  the  12th  centu- 
ry. He  distinguished  himself  by  a work  entitled  "i£0 
(the  book  of  completion),  which  investigates  the 
nature  of  the  vowel-points  of  Hebrew,  and  also  the  ety- 
mology of  proper  Hebrew  names ; it  was  freely  used  by 
Kimchi,  as  is  proved  by  frequent  citations.  “Jacob  ben- 
Eleazar  was  a sound  grammarian,  laid  down  some  ex- 
cellent rules  respecting  the  Hebrew  syntax,  and  mate- 
rially aided  the  development  of  philology  in  Spain  at  a 
time  when  Biblical  exegesis  was  much  neglected  and 
the  study  of  the  Talmud  was  paramount”  (Dr.  G ins- 
burg,  in  Kitto,  s.  v.).  He  was  also  active  in  the  cor- 
rection of  the  Hebrew  text  of  the  O.  Test.,  and  for  this 
purpose  relied  on  the  celebrated  Codex  Hillali  or  He- 
lali,  one  of  the  most  ancient  and  celebrated  Hebrew 
codices.  It  was  written,  according  to  some,  at  Ililla,  a 
town  built  near  .the  ruins  of  the  ancient  Babel,  and 
hence  the  name  by  which  the  BIS.  is  designated ; oth- 
ers, however,  hold  that  it  was  the  production  of  Rabbi 
Moses  ben-Hillcl.  It  bears  date  from  the  beginning  of 
the  7th  century,  according  to  Sakkuto,  who  in  his  day 
(circa  1500)  saw  a portion  of  the  Codex,  and  pronounced 
it  to  be  900  years  old,  and  cites  Kimchi  ( Juchassin , ed. 
Filipowski,  Lond.  1857,  p.  220)  as  saying  in  his  grammar 
on  Numb,  xv,  4,  that  the  Pentateuch  of  this  Codex  was 
in  his  day  extant  at  Toledo.  The  probability  is  that  a 
greater  portion  of  it,  if  not  the  whole,  was  destroyed  at 
Leon,  in  Spain,  where  it  was  last  deposited,  during  the 
persecutions  of  the  Jews  and  the  destruction  of  all  Jew- 
ish writings  in  1197.  Jacob  ben-Eleazar’s  correction  of 
the  text  of  the  O.-T.  Scriptures  by  the  aid  of  this  cele- 
brated Codex  makes  it,  therefore,  doubly  valuable  for  all 
critical  students  of  the  Hebrew  text.  See  Biesenthal 
and  Lebrecht’s  Radicum  Liber  (Berlin,  1817),  p.  15,  26 ; 
Geiger,  in  Ozar  Nechmad  II  (Vienna,  1857),  p.  159  sq. ; 
Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  vi,  132 ; Kitto,  s.  v.  See  Manu- 
scripts, Biblical. 

Jacob  ben-Machir  Tibbon.  See  Profiat. 

Jacob  ben-Meier.  See  Tam. 

Jacob  ben-Sheshet  Gerundi,  a celebrated 
Cabalist  who  flourished  about  the  middle  of  the  13th 
century,  deserves  our  notice  because  of  his  efforts  to 
counteract  the  influence  which  some  of  the  better  edu- 
cated and  more  liberal-minded  Jewish  Rabbins  of  the 
loth  and  14th  centuries  exerted  in  behalf  of  the  intro- 
duction of  a philosophical  mode  of  interpretation  inau- 
gurated by  the  renowned  Maimonides.  Like  many 
others  of  his  conservative  brethren,  he  confronted  the 
liberals  with  harsh  terms  and  low  and  vidgar  epithets, 
and  thereby  only  strengthened  the  cause  of  his  adver- 
saries. Thus  he  called  the  Maimonidists  “ heretics  and 
transgressors  of  the  law,”  and  asserted  that  “ they  seek 
only  the  furtherance  of  the  temporal  good,  of  the  earth- 
ly life,  the  defence  of  life  and  property,  but  deny  all  fu- 
ture rewards  and  punishments,”  etc.  These  gross  mis- 
representations are  contained  in  a work  which  he  pub- 
lished in  defence  of  the  cabalistic  mode  of  interpreta- 
tion. See  Griitz,  Geschickte  der  Juden,  vii,  85;  note 
3,  p.  442-459.  See  Cabala  ; Maimonides.  (J.  H. 
W.) 

Jacob  Baradseus.  See  Jacobites. 

Jacob  Berab,  a Jewish  Rabbi,  born  A.D.  1474  at 
Maqueda,  near  Toledo,  Spain,  was  obliged  by  persecu- 
tion to  leave  his  native  land  when  only  eighteen  years 
old.  After  many  years  of  travel  through  Egypt  to  Je- 
rusalem, and  thence  to  Damascus,  he  at  last  found  a 
resting-place  in  Safet  (about  1534).  Possessing  a large 


fortune  and  great  thirst  for  honor,  he  sought  distinc- 
tion among  his  Palestinian  brethren.  Favored  by  the 
Rabbins  of  his  own  immediate  vicinity,  he  succeeded 
in  re-establishing  (1538)  the  Sanhedrim  in  the  Holy 
Land,  which,  no  doubt,  he  intended  to  serve  as  the 
starting-point  for  the  re-establishment  of  the  Jewish 
kingdom.  LT nfortunatelv,  however,  for  the  Jewish  cause, 
there  was  higher  authority  at  Jerusalem  than  at  Safet ; 
and  when  Berab  sought  a reconciliation  with  the  chief 
Rabbi,  Levi  ben-Cliabib,  by  appointing  him  next  in  au- 
thority, the  consummation  of  the  project  failed,  to  the 
great  detriment  of  Judaism  all  over  the  world.  A con- 
troversy between  the  two  parties  ensued,  which  ended 
with  the  death  of  Berab  (January",  1541)  ; it  completely 
destroyed  the  hope  of  a re-establishment  of  ordination 
and  of  a Jewish  state.  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  J mien , ix, 
cli.  ix  and  x;  Jost,  Geschichte  d.  Judenthums,  iii,  128  sq. 
See  Jews.  (J.II.W.) 

Jacob  Emden  Ashkenasi  (shortened  Jabez),  a 
Jewish  Rabbi  of  great  distinction  among  the  Hebrews 
of  the  last  century',  was  bom  at  Amsterdam  in  1696.  lie 
was  the  son  of  Chacham  Zewi,  another  Rabbi  of  the 
celebrated  Zewi  family.  Being  banished  from  their 
homes,  his  father’s  family  sought  a refuge  first  in  Po- 
land, later  in  Moravia.  Possessed  of  a considerable 
fortune,  Jacob  devoted  most  of  his  time  to  the  study 
of  the  Jewish  traditions,  to  the  exclusion  of  all  secidar 
studies,  which  he  considered  likely  to  be  derogatory  to 
his  firm  belief  in  the  authenticity  of  Rabbinical  writ- 
ings. Even  the  position  of  Rabbi,  which  was  frequent- 
ly offered  him,  he  hesitated  to  accept,  lest  it  should  in 
the  least  interfere  with  his  studies.  But,  once  persuaded 
to  assume  the  sacred  duties  at  Emden,  he  was  thereaf- 
ter always  called  Jacob  Emden,  although  in  the  official 
papers  of  the  Danish  government  he  is  called  Herschel. 
He  soon  returned  to  private  life,  anil  became  a resi- 
dent at  Alton  a (about  1730),  near  Hamburg.  But,  if 
Jacob  did  not  retain  an  official  position  in  the  syna- 
gogue, he  certainly  continued  to  work  actively  for  the 
good  of  Israel ; and  as,  by  his  zeal  for  the  cause  of 
the  Jewish  religion,  he  often  censured,  both  by  pen  and 
tongue,  those  who  departed  from  the  old  and  wonted 
way,  he  thus  made  it  possible  for  his  adversaries,  of 
whom,  like  his  father,  he  had  not  a few,  to  stigmatize 
him  as  the  Jewish  “grand  inquisitor,”  etc.  If  Jacob 
Emden  ever  deserved  to  be  criticised  for  improper  con- 
duct, it  is  for  his  relation  towards  Rabbi  Eibeschlitz,  who 
was  his  competitor  for  the  rabbiship  of  the  Altona,  Ham- 
burg, and  Wandsbeck  congregations,  which  Jacob  did 
not  care  to  fill,  but  which  he  would  gladly  have  had  the 
honor  to  decline.  (Compare  Griitz,  v,  397  sq.)  Em- 
den was  especially  severe  against  all  the  Cabalists,  and 
many  were  the  books  that  he  issued  to  contradict  their 
teachings.  He  even  denied  the  authorship  of  some  of 
the  cabalistic  writings ; thus  he  pronounced  the  book 
Zohar  to  be  a spurious  production  of  his  own  century, 
etc.  He  placed  himself  in  a very  ridiculous  light  by  a 
judgment  which  he  gave  on  Jewish  traditional  law,  upon 
which  the  advice  of  Moses  Mendelssohn  had  also  been 
obtained,  and  in  which,  differing  from  this  great  man,  he 
addressed  him  more  like  a teacher  than  a pupil.  Jacob 
Emden  died  in  1776.  One  of  his  pupils  was  the  celebrated 
Samuel  Dubno.  His  writings,  according  to  his  own  state- 
ment, cover  no  less  than  34  different  works.  The  most 
important  of  them  are  his  contributions  to  the  history  of 
the  fanatics  of  the  last  century,  known  as  the  followers 
of  Sabbatai  Zewi  (q.  v.).  They  arc,  ^£13 

taken  from  the  celebrated  polemical  work  by  Ja- 
cob Sasportas,  on  the  sad  fate  of  Sabbatai  Zewi  (Amst. 
1737,  4to)  : — dis^n  O,  the  most  ably  conducted  po- 
lemic against  Zoliarites  and  Sabbatians,  consisting  of 
different  brochures  (Alton.  1758, 4to) : — “iX3£n  r jin, 
another  collection  against  S.  Zewi  and  his  followers  (Al- 
tona, 1752,  4to)  : — p1 ^52 n ni^ix  nnv^n,  on  the 
Sabbatians  who  espoused  the  Christian  faith  (Altona, 


740 


JACOBI 


JACOB,  HENRY 

1757, 8vo).  Of  his  other  works,  the  most  able  are,  per- 
haps, miS7*  "HQ,  on  the  Temple  service,  the  sacrifice, 
etc.  (Altona,  1745-69, 8vo ; extract  by  >S.  Deutsch,Presb. 

1S35  8vo): "T’QT',  first,  part  of  a great  work 

on  the  Jewish  ritnal  (Altona,  1745,  8vo,  and  often)  : 
T’QX  *’?,  the  Mishnic  tract  Aboth,  with  commentaries 
bv  celebrated  Jewish  savans,  etc.  (Amst.  1751,  4to) ; etc. 
S o Griitz,  Gesch.  il  Juclen,  x (Index) ; Jost,  Gesch.  d.Ju- 
denthums,  iii,  194, 252, 308 ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  J ud.  i,  241  sq. 
(contains  a list  of  all  his  writings) ; Sam.  Dubno, 

—-*-p  (Berl.  1770, 8 vo);  Fiirst,  Jacob  Emden  in  the  Lib. 
d.  Or..  1840,  c.  442.  See  Luzatto;  Jeays  (Modern). 
(j.H.W.) 

Jacob,  Henry,  an  English  Nonconformist,  Avas  born 
in  the  county  of  Kent  in  the  second  half  of  the  10th 
century.  He  avas  educated  at  St.  Mary’s  Hall,  Oxford. 
He  hail  secured  the  living  of  Cheriton,  a place  in  his  na- 
tive county,  but  appearing  before  the  public  in  print  as 
an  advocate  of  a reform  of  the  English  Church  (“Rea- 
sons proving  the  Necessity  of  Reforming  our  Churches 
in  England,”  Lond.  1004),  he  was  deprived  of  his  parish, 
and  even  obliged  to  flee  the  country.  After  residing 
some  time  in  Holland  he  returned  to  England,  and 
founded  the  first  Independent  (Congregational)  church 
in  that  country.  See  Independents.  In  1624  he  em- 
igrated to  Virginia,  and  here  he  died  soon  after  his  ar- 
rival. Henry  Jacob  Avas  an  extensive  Avriter,  but  his 
writings  are  almost  Avithout  exception  of  a polemical 
nature,  and  at  present  very  scarce.  The  most  impor- 
tant are,  a reply  to  bishop  Bilson’s  Sermons  on  Redemp- 
tion (preached  in  1597,  publ.  1598,  8ato),  entitled  Trea- 
tise on  the  Sufferings  and  Victory  of  Christ  (Lond.  1598, 
8vo),  and  Defence  of  the  same  (1600, 4to).  See  Strype, 
Life  of  Whitgift;  Allibone,  Diet.  ofAuth.  i, 948 ; Ilook, 
Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  273. 

Jacob,  Stephen,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
Avas  born  at  Argyle,  N.  Y.,  Feb.  23, 1789;  Avas  conA’erted 
in  Feb.  1810;  entered  the  itinerancy  in  June,  1812;  Avas 
superannuated  in  1818;  and  died  April  24,  1819.  He 
was  a zealous,  acceptable,  and  useful  preacher,  and  de- 
A'otedly  pious. — Minutes  of  Conferences , i,  327. 

Jacobi,  Friedrich  Heinrich,  one  of  Germany’s 
most  eminent  philosophers,  Avas  born  at  Dusseldorf  Jan- 
uary 25, 1 743.  11  is  father  was  a Avealthy  merchant,  and, 
anxious  to  be  assisted  by  his  son,  he  designed  him  for 
the  mercantile  profession.  When  only  sixteen  years 
old,  Jacobi  Avas  sent  to  Frankfort  on  the  Main  to  learn 
the  business.  But  he  daily  evinced  fondness  for  a lit- 
erary profession,  and  a short  time  after,  having  removed 
to  UeneA'a,  he  Avas  further  incited  to  study  by  associ- 
ation Avitli  learned  men,  among  AA'hom  Avas  the  great 
mathematician  Le  Sage.  The  death  of  his  father  obliged 
him  to  return  to  Dusseldorf,  to  look  after  the  business 
interests  of  the  family.  He,  hoAveA'er,  at  the  same 
time,  continued  his  studies,  Avhich  Avcre  uoav  becoming 
multifarious,  not  to  say  contradictory,  and,  according  to 
one  of  his  biographers,  “ presented  the  strange  appear- 
ance of  a philosophical  composite,  including  in  his  sin- 
gle personality  the  quadruple  Arariety  of  an  enlightened 
18th  century  man,  a mystic,  an  atheist,  and  a theist.” 
Appointed  a member  of  the  Exchequer,  he  had  much 
more  leisure  afforded  him  than  ivhile  at  the  head  of  his 
father’s  business,  and  he  nmv  not  only  gave  himself  up 
to  study,  but  also  to  authorship,  to  Avhich  he  had  been 
encouraged  by  his  literary  associates,  among  Avhom  fig- 
ured some  of  Germany’s  most  noted  names.  His  first 
productions  Avere  a collection  of  letters  by  an  imaginary 
person  named  Allwill,  and  a romance  called  “ Woldcmar” 
(1777,  and  often),  which,  like  some  of  the  productions  of 
his  friend  and  present  associate  Gothc,  incorporated  the 
philosophical  opinions  of  the  Avriter.  Brought  more 
prominently  to  the  notice  of  the  gOA'crnment,  he  Avas 
honored  with  a financial  position  in  the  state's  service, 
and  lie  removed  to  Munich.  But  his  unhesitating  ex- 
posures of  the  imprudence  and  injurious  tendency  of  the 


Bavarian  system  of  finance  made  him  many  enemies, 
and  he  retired  to  his  estate  at  Pempelfort,  near  Dus- 
seldorf, where  his  hospitable  nature  soon  gathered  about 
him  “ celebrated  guests  from  all  quarters  of  the  cultiva- 
ted Avorld,”  and  it  Avas  only  natural  that  he  should  now 
continue  his  literary  productions.  Among  other  liter- 
ary enterprises  which  he  A'entured  upon  Avas  a contro- 
versy Avith  Mendelssohn  (in  Briefe  iiber  d.  Lehre  d.  Spi- 
noza [Bresl.  1785,  and  often])  .on  the  doctrines  that  had 
been  advocated  by  the  pantheist  Spinoza,  whose  philos- 
ophy had  at  this  time  been  almost  forgotten.  This 
he  further  and  most  ably  prosecuted  in  Wider  Mendels- 
sohns Beschuldigungen  (Lpz.  1786) ; (comp.  Kahilis,  IJist. 
of  German  Protestantism , p.  156  sq.).  It  was  this  con- 
troversy with  Mendelssohn,  which  had  originated  Avith 
the  discoAxry  by  Jacobi  that  the  friend  of  the  former, 
Lessing,  the  author  of  Nathan,  was  a Spinozist,  Avhich 
Mendelssohn  Avas  determined  to  refute,  but  which  actu- 
ally laid  e\Ten  the  latter  open  to  the  charge  of  advoca- 
ting pantheistical  doctrines,  that  first  brought  clearly  to 
light  the  philosophical  opinions  of  Jacobi,  and  stamped 
him  as  the  “philosopher  of  faith.”  The  points  of  Ja- 
cobi’s position  are  thus  stated  by  Schwegler  ( History  of 
Philosophy,  transl.  by  Seelye,  p.  272)  : “ (1.)  Spinozism. 
is  fatalism  and  atheism;  (2.)  EA'erv  path  of  philosophic 
demonstration  leads  to  fatalism  and  atheism ; (3.)  In  or- 
der that  ayc  may  not  fall  into  these,  Ave  must  set  a limit 
to  demonstrating,  and  recognise  faith  as  the  element  of 
all  metaphysical  knoAvledge.”  Principles  like  these,  ad- 
A’ocated  at  a time  when  atheism  AAras  enthroned  all  o\rer 
Germany  and  France, naturally  enough  aroused  uniArersal 
opposition  in  the  philosophical  Avorld.  “ It  was  charged 
upon  him  that  he  Avas  an  enemy  of  reason,  a preacher 
of  blind  faith,  a despiser  of  science  and  of  philosophy,  a 
fanatic  and  a papist.”  To  controATert  these  opinions,  he 
determined  to  deAxlop  his  principle  of  faith  or  immedi- 
ate knowledge ; he  published  David  Hume  iiber  d.  Glau- 
ber, oder  Idealismus  u.  Realismus  (Bresl.  1787,  8a'o).  This 
brought  doAvn  upon  him  the  followers  of  Kant,  and 
shortly  after  he  also  estranged  the  admirers  of  Fichte  by 
his  Sendsehreiben  an  Fichte  (1799).  His  controversial 
opponents,  howeA-cr,  never  failed  to  acknoAvledge  the 
great  abilities  of  Jacobi,  and  the  sincerity  of  his  charac- 
ter and  opinions.  When  the  troubles  arising  out  of  the 
French  Revolution  extended  to  Germany,  Jacobi  retired 
to  Holstein,  Avhence  he  removed  successively  to  Wands- 
beclc  and  Hamburg ; from  the  latter  he  Avas  called,  in 
1804,  to  Munich,  to  assist  in  the  formation  of  the  neAV 
Academj'  of  Sciences,  of  Avhich  he  was,  in  1807,  appoint- 
ed president.  In  1811  he  further  involved  himself  in  a 
controversy  Avith  another  philosophical  school,  that  of 
Sehelling,  by  the  publication  of  a A\ork  Von  d.gbttlichen 
Dingen  u.  Hirer  Offeubarung  (Lpz.  1811).  This  time  the 
dispute  Avas  Avaged  rather  bitterly;  but,  notAvithstanding 
the  unfaA'orablc  estimate  Avhich  Sehelling  drew,  in  his 
reply,  of  the  literary  and  philosophical  merits  of  Jacobi, 
the  latter  continued  to  maintain  a high  rank  among 
sincere  and  honest  inquirers  after  truth ; and  ca'Cu  if 
it  must  be  confessed  tliat  Jacobi  was  exclusiAxlv  oc- 
cupied with  detached  speculations,  and  that  he  rather 
prepared  than  established  a system  of  philosophy,  yet 
it  remains  undisputed  that  the  profoundness  and  orig- 
inality of  his  A'iews  haA’C  furnished  materials  of  Avhich 
more  systematic  minds  liaA'e  not  scrupled  to  aA'ail  them- 
selves for  the  construction  of  their  oivn  theories.  Ja- 
cobi died  at  Munich  March  10, 1819.  Besides  the  phil- 
osophical productions  already  mentioned,  he  Avrote  Ueber 
| d.  Unternehmen  d.  Kriticismus  d.  Vernunft  z.  Verstande 
zu  briugen  (Bresl.  1802,  8vo).  All  his  Avorks  Avcre  pub- 
lished collectively  at  Leipzig  in  1812.  “ Jacobi  stood  to 

the  philosophy  of  his  day,  as  it  had  floAved  down  from 
Kant  to  Sehelling,  in  a A'ery  peculiar  relation,  lie  Avas 
incited  by  each  of  these  systems;  he  learned  from  each, 
and  on  each  of  them  he  exercised  his  strength.  But  he 
Avas  not  satisfied  by  either  of  them ; yet  he  was  most 
strongly  repelled  by  pantheism.  Avhether  the  earlier  pan- 
theism of  Spinoza,  Avhom  he  highly  esteemed  as  a man. 


JACOBI 


JACOBITES 


m 


or  its  later  form  in  Schelling’s  natural  philosophy.  . . . 
Jacobi  did  not  despise  reason ; he  rather  pleaded  for  it ; 
but  reason  was  not  to  him  a faculty  for  the  creation,  dis- 
covery, or  production  of  truth  from  itself.  By  reason 
he  meant,  according  to  the  derivation  of  the  word,  that 
which  perceives,  the  inmost  and  original  sense.  He  did 
not  regard  reason  and  faith  as  being  in  conflict  with  each 
other,  but  as  one.  Faith  inwardly  supplies  what  knowl- 
edge cannot  gain.  Here  Jacobi  united  with  Kant  in 
acknowledging  the  insufficiency  of  our  knowledge  to 
produce  a demonstration  of  God  and  divine  things.  . . . 
But  the  vacant  place  which  Kant  had  therefore  left  in 
his  system  for  divine  things  . . . Jacobi  filled  up  by  the 
doctrine  of  faith”  (Hurst’s  Hagenhach,  Ch.  Hist.  18/A  and 
19 th  Cent,  ii,  238  sq.).  The  whole  philosophy  of  Jacobi 
is  perhaps  best  stated  thus : “All demonstrative  systems 
must  necessarily  lead  to  fatalism,  which,  however,  is  ir- 
reconcilable with  man’s  consciousness  of  the  freedom  of 
his  rational  nature.  The  general  system  of  nature,  in- 
deed, and  man  himself,  so  far  as  he  is  a part  of  that  sys- 
tem, is  pure  mechanism ; but  in  man  there  is  unques- 
tionably an  energy  which  transcends  and  is  superior  to 
sense,  or  that  faculty  which  is  bound  up  with  and  regu- 
lated by  the  laws  of  nature.  This  higher  energy  is  lib- 
erty or  reason,  and  consequently  sense  and  reason  re- 
veal to  man  two  distinct  spheres  of  his  activity — the 
sensible  or  visible  world,  and  the  invisible  or  intelli- 
gible. The  existence  of  these  worlds  no  more  admits 
of  demonstrative  proof  than  that  of  sense  and  reason 
themselves.  Now  sense  and  reason  are  the  supreme 
and  ultimate  principles  of  all  intellectual  operations,  and 
as  such  legitimize  them,  while  they  themselves  do  not 
receive  their  legitimization  from  aught  else;  and  the 
existence  of  sense  and  reason  necessarily  implies  the  ex- 
istence of  sensible  and  intelligible  objects  about  which 
they  are  conversant.  But  this  existing  system  of  things 
cannot  have  originally  proceeded  either  from  nature  or 
from  man’s  intellect  or  reason,  for  both  nature  and  the 
human  mind  are  finite  and  conditiouate,  and  there  must 
be  something  infinite  and  uneonditionate,  superior  to 
and  independent  both  of  nature  and  man,  to  be  the 
source  and  principle  of  all  things.  This  being  is  God. 
Now  as  man’s  liberty  consists  in  his  personality  or  ab- 
solute individuality,  for  this  constitutes  his  proper  es- 
sence, while  the  mechanism  of  nature  is  hereby  distin- 
guished from  man,  that  none  of  its  members  are  indi- 
vidual of  character,  therefore  that  which  is  superior  both 
to  nature  and  to  man  must  be  perfectly  and  supremely 
individual;  God  consequently  is  one  only,  and  strictly 
personal.  Moreover,  as  the  ground  of  all  subsistence, 
he  cannot  be  without  subsistence;  and  as  the  principle 
of  reason,  he  cannot  be  irrational.  Of  the  existence  of 
this  divine  intelligence,  however,  all  direct  proof  is  as 
impossible  as  a demonstration  of  existence  simply.  Gen- 
erali}', indeed,  nothing  can  be  known  except  upon  testi- 
mony, and  whatever  rests  on  testimony  is  not  certainty, 
but  faith,  and  such  a faith  or  belief,  when  its  object  is  the 
existence  of  a good  and  supreme  being,  is  religion.”  It 
is  apparent,  then,  that  Jacobi  may  appropriately  be  look- 
ed upon  as  an  advocate  of  religion,  but  by  no  means  can 
he  be  admitted  to  have  been  a Christian  philosopher ; 
for,  although  he  believed  in  a revelation  of  God,  he  was 
“ far  from  taking  sides  with  the  believers  of  revelation, 
in  the  ecclesiastical  sense  of  the  word.”  If  it  is  proper 
to  class  the  influence  of  Jacobi's  philosophy  with  that 
of  Fichte  and  Schelling,  as  Farrar  ( Critical  History  of 
Free  Thought,  p.  238)  does,  it  is  well  at  least  to  concede 
that  these  philosophical  systems  all  together  certainly 
“formed  one  class  of  influences,  which  were  operating 
about  the  beginning  of  the  18th  century,  and  were  tend- 
ing to  redeem  alike  German  literature  and  theology.” 
“Their  first  effect  was  to  produce  examination  of  the 
primary  principles  of  belief,  and  to  excite  inquiry;  and, 
though  at  first  only  re-enforcing  the  idea  of  morality, 
they  ultimately  drew  men  out  of  themselves  into  aspira- 
tions after  the  infinite  spirit,  and  developed  the  sense  of 
dependence,  of  humility,  of  unselfishness,  of  spirituality. 


They  produced,  indeed,  evil  effects  in  pantheism  and 
ideology,  but  the  results  were  partial,  the  good  was  gen- 
eral The  problem,  What  is  truth  V was  through  their 
means  remitted  to  men  for  reconsideration ; the  answers 
to  it  elicited  from  the  one  school,  It  is  that  which  I can 
know ; from  the  other,  It  is  that  which  I can  intuitive- 
ly feci,  threw  men  upon  those  unalterable  and  infallible 
instincts  which  God  has  set  in  the  human  breast  as  the 
everlasting  landmarks  of  truth,  the  study  of  which  lifts 
men  ultimately  out  of  error.”  One  of  the  most  cele- 
brated advocates  of  these  views  of  Jacobi  we  find  in 
Scbleiermacher  (compare  Hagenbach,  ii,  332  sq.,  339), 
though,  of  course,  the  former  only  prepared  the  way  for 
the  latter;  and,  indeed,  this  “ faith  philosophy,”  “ with 
some  slight  modifications  in  each  case,  consequent  upon 
their  philosophical  system,”  is  the  theory  not  only  of 
Jacobi  and  of  Schleiermacher,  but  also  of  Nitzsch,  Han- 
sel ( author  of  “ Limits  of  Religious  Thought” ),  and 
probably,  also,  of  the  Scotch  philosopher  Hamilton 
(compare  Cocker,  Christianity  and  Greek  Philosophy, 
p.  70  sq.).  See  Herbst,  Biographic  in  the  Bibliothek 
christlicher  Denker  (Leipz.  1830),  i;  Max  Jacobi,  Brief- 
n-echsel  zwischen  Guthe  v.  Fr.  II.  Jacobi  (Leipz.  1846) ; 
Gervinus,  Geschichte  d.  poet.  Nat.  Lit.  d.  Deutschen  (3d 
edit.),  iv,  556  sq. ; Chalybreus,  Hist.  Specul.  Phil.  p.  60 
sq. ; Ersch  u.  Gruber,  A llyem.  Encyklop. ; English  Cy- 
clop. s.  v. 

Jacobites  is  the  name  by  which  the  different  com- 
munities in  Syria,  Mesopotamia,  and  Babylonia,  who  hold 
to  the  Monophysitc  doctrine,  have  been  known  since 
their  union,  about  the  middle  of  the  6th  century.  See 
Eutyciiianism  ; Monopiiysites.  The  most  prominent 
party  in  accomplishing  the  union  of  these  Monopliy- 
sites,  who,  near  the  middle  of  the  6th  century,  were 
very  weak,  and  threatened  with  extermination,  was  Ja- 
cob (or  James)  Albardai,  or  Baradseus  (or  Zanzalus),  a 
zealous  disciple  of  Severus,  a monk  and  presbyter  of  the 
convent  of  Phasilta,  near  Nisibis,  and  it  is  after  this  Ja- 
cob that  the  united  Monopiiysites  were  named  after 
their  union,  and  not,  as  some  have  supposed,  after 
James,  the  brother  of  Christ,  or  Jacob  the  patriarch,  or 
after  Dioscorus,  who  was  called  Jacob  before  his  ordina- 
tion. It  is  true,  however,  that  these  communities  are 
sometimes  designated  as  the  Severians,  Dioscorians,  Eu- 
tychians,  and  even  as  the  Theodosians  (for  the  Egyptian 
Monopiiysites,  see  Copts;  for  the  Armenian,  see  Ar- 
menian Church:  and  for  the  Abyssinian,  see  Abyssin- 
ian Church).  The  surnames  of  Jacob  who  united  the 
Monopiiysites,  however,  have  no  bearing  on  his  relation 
to  the  sects,  but  are  strictly  personal.  Thus  the  coarse- 
ness of  the  dress  in  which  he  travelled  through  the  East 
for  the  benefit  of  his  party  (says  D’Herbelot,  Bibliotheque 
Orientale,  p.  435)  gained  him  the  name  of  Baradai  (i.  e. 
a coarse  horse-blanket ; compare  Asscmaui,  ii,  66,  414 ; 
Makrizi,  Geschichte  der  Kopten,  edited  by  SVustenfeld ; 
Eutychius,  Annales,  ed.  Pococke,  ii,  144,  147).  Jacob 
was  made  bishop  of  Edessa  in  541,  and  then,  says  Ur. 
Schaff  (Ch.  History,  iii,  775),  “this  remarkable  man  de- 
voted himself  for  seven  and  thirty  years  with  unwea- 
ried zeal  to  the  interests  of  the  persecuted  Monophy- 
sites.  * Light  footed  as  Asahel’  (2  Sam.  ii,  18),  and  in 
the  garb  of  a beggar,  he  journeyed  hither  and  thither 
amid  the  greatest  dangers  and  privations;  revived  the 
patriarchate  of  Antioch ; ordained  bishops,  priests,  and 
deacons ; organized  churches ; healed  divisions ; and 
thus  saved  the  Monophysitc  body  from  impending  ex- 
tinction.” He  died  in  578. 

“ The  Jacobites  have  always  protested  against  being 
considered  followers  of  Eutyches ; but,  while  they  pro- 
fess to  anathematize  that  heresiarcli,  they  merely  re- 
ject some  minor  opinions  of  his,  and  hold  fast  his  great 
distinguishing  error  of  the  absorption  of  the  humanity 
of  our  Saviour  in  his  divine  nature.  They  think  that 
in  the  incamation,  from  two  natures  there  resulted  one. 
In  other  words,  they  believe  that  the  Redeemer  does 
not  possess  two  natures,  but  one  composed  of  two.  illus- 
trating their  dogma  in  this  way : • Glass  is  made  of  sand; 


742 


JACOBITES 


JACOBITES 


but  the  whole  is  only  glass,  no  longer  sand : thus  the 
divine  nature  of  Christ  has  absorbed  the  human,  so  that 
the  two  have  become  one.’  ” A middle  way  between 
Eutvchianism  and  orthodoxy  was  chosen  by  Xenayas 
(q.  v.)  and  his  school,  who  on  the  incarnation  maintain 
*•  the  existence  in  Christ  of  one  nature,  composed  of  the 
divinity  and  humanity,  but  without  conversion,  confu- 
sion, or  commixture.  * He  teaches  that  the  Son,  one  of 
the  Trinity,  united  himself  with  a human  body  and  a 
rational  soul  in  the  womb  of  the  Virgin.  His  body  had 
no  being  before  this  union.  In  this  he  was  born,  in  it 
he  was  nourished,  in  it  he  suffered  and  died.  Yet  the 
divine  nature  of  the  Son  did  not  suffer  or  die.  Nor  was 
his  human  nature,  or  his  agency,  or  death,  merely  vis- 
ionary, as  the  Phantasmists  taught,  but  actual  and  real. 
Moreover,  the  divine  nature  was  not  changed  or  trans- 
muted into  the  human , or  commixed  or  confused  there- 
with ; neither  was  the  human  nature  converted  into  the 
divine,  nor  commixed  or  confused  with  it;  but  an  ad- 
unation  of  the  two  natures  took  place,  of  a mode  equiv- 
alent to  that  which,  by  the  union  of  body  and  soul, 
makes  a human  being;  for  as  the  soul  and  body  are 
united  in  one  human  nature,  so,  from  the  union  of  the 
Godhead  and  manhood  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  there 
has  arisen  a nature  peculiar  to  itself,  not  simple,  but  com- 
plex ; ‘one  double  nature.’”  Here  is  evidently  main- 
tained a distinction  from  the  Eutvchians  that  the  flesh 
ot  Christ  taken  from  the  Virgin  was  actual  and  real, 
and  united  with  the  divine  in  Christ,  “ without  confu- 
sion, change,  or  division and  from  the  orthodox,  in 
holding  that,  after  the  union,  the  two  natures  united 
in  one,  losing  their  distinctiveness.  This  view  of  Xe- 
nayas, says  Etheridge  (Syrian  Churches,  p.  143),  seems 
to  be  at  present  the  doctrine  of  the  Jacobites;  but,  as 
the  laity  is  very  moderately  educated,  this  remark  ap- 
plies only  to  the  clergy.  As  an  indication  that  they 
have  only  an  imperfect  idea  on  this  point,  Etheridge 
cites  their  usage  of  “making  the  sign  of  the  cross  with 
only  the  middle  finger  of  their  hand,  holding  the  others 
so  as  to  render  them  invisible,”  evincing  thereby  that 
the  whole  subject  is  to  them  an  unsolved  mystery. 

Like  the  Greek  Church,  the  Jacobites,  as  a ride,  deny 
the  procession  of  the  Holy  Ghost  from  the  Son,  holding, 
however,  to  the  orthodox  doctrine  of  the  personality 
and  deity. 

Sacraments.— It  is  generally  believed  that  the  Jaco- 
bites, with  the  Roman  Catholics,  hold  to  the  septenary 
number  on  the  sacraments,  but  Etheridge  says  (p.  144) 
that  “this  must  be  taken  in  a qualified  sense,  as  they 
have  no  distinct  service  of  confirmation,  nor  do  they 
use  extreme  unction,  unless  it  be  sometimes  imparted 
to  members  of  the  priesthood.  Auricular  confession, 
too,  is  scarcely  known  among  them.  And  in  the  Eu- 
charist, while  they  profess  to  recognise  the  real  presence, 
it  must  not  be  understood  in  the  Papite  sense  of  tran- 
substantiation,  but  the  presence  of  the  Saviour  which 
accompanies,  in  an  untlescribed  manner,  the  elements 
of  the  bread  and  wine:  a species  of  consubstantiation, 
illustrated  by  liar  Salih  (in  Matt,  xxviii,  Codil.  Syr. 
Clement.  Vatic.  10,  fol.  29)  under  the  idea  of  iron  in 
union  with  fire,  and  receiving  from  it  (lie  properties  of 
light  and  heat,  while  its  own  nature  remains  unaltered” 
(comp,  liar-1  Iobncus,  Menorath  Kudslii,  or  the  “Lamp 
of  the  Saints,”  fundam.  vi,  sect.  2).  At  the  celebration 
of  the  Eucharist  they  administer  newlv-made  unleav- 
ened bread  (Rbdiger,  however,  in  Herzog,  Ileal- Ency- 
liopddie , vi,  400,  asserts  that  they  use  leavened  bread), 
commixed  with  salt  and  oil,  and  of  both  kinds,  but  gen- 
erally dipping,  like  the  Nestorians,  the  cake  into  the 
wine,  'rite  sacrament  of  baptism  they  are  said,  but 
very  improbably,  to  have  performed  by  imprinting  on 
the  subject  (of  course  infants),  with  a burning  iron,  the 
figure  of  the  cross,  on  some  part  of  the  bod}',  generally 
the  arm,  sometimes  even  the  face. 

The  doctrine  of  purgatory  they  wholly  ignore,  though 
it  is  true  they  follow  the  Syrian  custom  in  proving  for 
their  dead. 


Descent. — Their  origin  they  attempt  to  trace  lineally 
from  the  first  Hebrew  Christians.  Dr.  Wolff  (, Journal , 
1839)  says,  “ They  call  themselves  the  Bnay  Israel  (the 
children  of  Israel),  whose  ancestors  were  converted  by 
the  apostle  James;”  and  continues,  that  “there  cannot 
be  the  least  doubt  that  their  claim  to  being  the  de- 
scendants of  the  Jewish  Christians  of  old  is  just.  Their 
physiognomy,  mode  of  worship,  their  attachment  to  the 
Mosaic  law,  their  liturgy,  their  tradition,  so  similar  to 
the  Jewish,  the  technical  terms  in  their  theology,  all 
prove  that  they  are  real  descendants  of  Abraham.” 
They  certainly  followed  the  Jews  at  one  time  in  sub- 
jecting their  male  members  to  circumcision  (comp.  Sa- 
ligniac,  Itinerancy,  viii,  c.  i).  One  thing  is  peculiarly 
characteristic  of  the  Jacobites — they  practise  the  adora- 
tion of  the  saints,  and  particularly  worship  the  mother 
of  Christ.  As  teachers  and  saints,  they  revere  some  of 
the  most  prominent  actors  in  the  Church  History  of  the 
early  centuries,  particularly  Jacob  of  Sarug,  Jacob  of 
Edessa,  Dioscorus,  Severus,  P.  Fullo,  and  Jacob  Bara- 
daeus ; but  Eutyches  they  ignore.  (Compare  Assemani, 
Bibl.  Orient,  ii,  diss.  de  Monophys.  § 8 and  10;  Renau- 
dot,  Ilist.  Patriarch.  Alex.  p.  133  sq. ; id.  Liturg.  ii,  103). 

The  Jacobites  also  impose  upon  themselves  excessive 
fasts:  “five  annual  lents,  during  which  both  the  cler- 
gy and  the  laity  abstain  not  only  from  flesh  or  eggs, 
but  even  from  the  taste  of  wine,  of  oil,  and  of  fish”  (Gib- 
bon, Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire,  iv,  551 ; 
comp.  La  Croze,  Christ ianisnie  de  VEtliiopie,  p.  352). 

Their  clergy  are  constituted  on  the  model  of  a perfect 
hierarchy.  “Extremely  tenacious  of  their  ecclesias- 
tical status  in  this  particular,  they  glory  in  an  apostol- 
ical succession  from  St,  Peter  as  the  first  bishop  of  Anti- 
och, and  exhibit  what  they  hold  to  be  an  unbroken 
series  of  more  than  180  bishops  of  that  see  from  his  day 
to  our  own.”  This  assertion  they  make  in  the  face  of 
the  fact  that  they  only  started  in  the  Cth  century  under 
Jacob,  but  they  certainly  ought  to  enjoy  the  same  priv- 
ileges with  all  other  churches  that  lay  claim  to  a direct 
apostolic  succession  (q.  v.). 

By  the  side  of  the  patriarch,  who  holds  the  highest 
office  in  the  Church,  there  is  a secondary  officer  at  the 
head  of  the  Eastern  Jacobites,  the  Maphrian  (Syriac, 
i.  e.  the  fructifier),  or  Primus  Orienlis,  whose 
mission  it  is  to  ordain  bishops,  and  also  to  consecrate 
the  patriarch  elect  by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  He  oc- 
cupies, to  a certain  degree,  the  same  position  as  the 
now  obsolete  Ivatholikos  ( Catholic ) of  the  Nestorian 
Church,  and  is  sometimes  designated  by  that  name. 
He  resides  at  Mosul,  and  his  jurisdiction  extends  over 
the  Jacobites  of  the  East,  residing  beyond  the  Tigris 
and  a portion  of  Mesopotamia ; the  rest  of  Mesopota- 
mia, Asia  proper,  Phoenicia.  Palestine,  Cilicia,  and  Ar- 
menia are  under  the  immediate  control  of  the  patriarch 
of  Antioch.  (On  Ordination,  see  Etheridge,  Syr.  Ch.  p. 
147  sq.)  With  the  diocese  of  the  patriarch  there  comes 
in  contact  the  patriarchate  of  the  Copts  (q.  v.).  and  of 
late  years  both  churches  have  sustained  a bishop  at  Je- 
rusalem. 

The  Jacobites  are  distinguished  for  the  number  of 
their  convents,  from  which,  as  is  the  custom  in  all  the 
Eastern  churches,  the  higher  officers  of  the  Church  are 
all  chosen.  These  institutions  are,  perhaps  for  this  rea- 
son also,  under  the  supervision  of  the  bishops. 

At  the  time  of  its  greatest  prosperity  the  Jacobite 
Church  produced  many  men  remarkable  for  the  pro- 
foundness of  their  views,  their  teachings,  and  their  writ- 
ings. No  less  than  150  archbishops  and  bishops  have 
been  counted  in  the  different  ages  of  the  sect,  of  whom 
an  account  is  given  in  the  second  part  of  J.  G.  Assema- 
ni’s  Bibliotheca  Orientalis.  The  most  eminent  of  them 
arc  John,  bishop  of  Asia ; Thomas  of  Harkel,  who,  in  the 
beginning  of  the  7th  century,  revised  the  Philoxenian 
translation  oftlieN.T.;  Jacob  of  Edessa;  the  patriarch 
Dionysius  I,  in  the  first  half  of  the  9th  century,  author 
of  a Syriac  chronicle,  of  which  Assemani  has  made 
much  use,  and  of  which  a part  has  been  published  by 


JACOBITES 


?43 


Tullberg  (Upsala,  1850) ; John,  bishop  of  Dara,  in  the 
9th  century;  Moses  Bar-Kipha  (f  913),  whose  treatise 
on  Paradise  was  translated  into  Latin  by  Andr.  Masius ; 
Dionysius  Bar-Salibi,  bishop  of  Amid  in  the  12th  cen- 
tury, author  of  commentaries  on  the  Bible  and  other 
theological  works  (Asscmani,  ii,  15G-21 1) ; Jacob,  bishop 
of  Tagrit  in  the  13th  century;  and  especially  Gregorius 
Abulfaragius ; Bar-Hebra?us,  in  the  13th  century,  who 
was  perhaps  the  greatest  and  noblest  man  of  the  East- 
ern Church;  his  death  was  mourned  alike  by  Jacobites 
and  Nestorians,  by  Greeks  and  Armenians,  all  of  whom 
forgot  the  disputes  which  were  agitating  at  that  time 
the  Eastern  Church,  and  gathered  at  his  grave  to  min- 
gle their  tears  for  the  loss  of  a truly  virtuous  and  great 
man.  The  work  of  Biblical  criticism  known  as  Recensio 
Karkaphensis  is  also,  as  shown  by  Wiseman  (Ilorcn  Syr. 
Rome,  1828, 8 vo,  p.206,2 12),  due  to  the  Jacobite  Church. 

The  present  condition  of  this  sect  is  thus  described  by 
the  Rev.  George  Percy  Badger  (Nestorians  and  their 
Rituals,  i,  60) : “ The  present  hierarchy  of  the  Jacobites 
in  Turkey  consists  of  a patriarch,  who  claims  the  title 
of  ‘ Patriarch  of  Antioch  and  successor  of  St.  Peter,’ 
eight  metropolitans,  and  three  bishops.  Of  these,  one 
resides  at  Mosul,  one  in  the  convent  of  Mar  Mattai,  in 
the  same  district,  one  at  Urfat,  one  at  Diarbekir,  or 
Kharput,  one  at  Jerusalem,  one  at  Mardin,  three  in 
Jebel  Tur,  and  two  are  called  Temeloyo,  i.  e.  universal, 
without  any  regular  dioceses.  . . . The  bishops  gener- 
ally are  illiterate  men,  but  little  versed  in  Scripture, 
and  entirely  ignorant  of  ecclesiastical  history.  They 
scarcely  ever  preach,  and  their  episcopal  visitations  are 
confined  to  occasional  ordinations,  and  to  the  collection 
of  tithes  from  their  several  dioceses.  All  of  them  can, 
of  course,  read  the  Syriac  of  their  rituals,  but  few  thor- 
oughly understand  it.  . . . As  might  naturally  be  ex- 
pected, the  lower  orders  of  the  Syrian  clergy  are  gener- 
ally more  illiterate  than  the  bishops ; and  how  can,  it  be 
otherwise?  . . . Such  being  the  awkwardness  and  inef- 
ficiency of  their  clergy,  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that 
religious  knowledge  and  vital  godliness  are  at  a very 
low  ebb  among  the  Syrian  laity.  Notwithstanding 
the  comparative  affluence  of  this  community,  I believe 
that  there  do  not  exist  among  them  more  than  twenty 
small  schools  in  the  whole  of  Turkey,  where  their  popu- 
lation amounts  to  something  like  100,000  (Etheridge 
says  150,000).  The  following  is  a rough  estimate  in 
villages  of  the  proportion  of  their  numbers  in  the  differ- 
ent districts:  (1)  Jebel  Tur,  150  villages;  (2)  district 
of  Urfah  and  Gawar,  50  villages;  (3)  Kharput,  15  vil- 
lages ; (4)  Diarbekir,  6 villages ; (5)  Mosul,  5 villages ; 
(6)  Damascus,  4 villages,  making  in  all  230  villages 
now  inhabited  by  Syrians.”  (Comp.  Richard  Pococke, 
Travels  in  the  East,  II,  i,  208;  Niebuhr,  Reisebeschreib. 
vol.  ii;  Buckingham,  Trav.  in  Mesopotamia,  i,  321,  341 ; 
Robinson,  Palestine,  iii,  460  sq.) 

As  early  as  the  14th  century  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  used  her  influence  to  effect  a union  of  the  Jac- 
obite and  Western  churches  under  the  sway  of  Rome. 
But,  although  many  accessions  have  been  obtained  from 
the  Jacobites,  they  have  not  yielded  entire,  as  did  the 
Copts  in  the  15th  century.  The  first  really  important 
success  the  Romanists  achieved  in  the  17th  century, 
under  Andreas  Achigian,  when  the  converts,  at  that 
time  quite  numerous,  styling  themselves  “Syrian  Cath- 
olics,” elected  him  as  a rival  patriarch.  He  was  follow- 
ed by  Petriis  (Ignatius,  vol.  xxv),  who  did  not  continue 
long  in  office,  as  the  opposition  party  proved  too  strong 
for  Rome  (Assemani,  ii,  482).  This,  however,  by  no 
means  discouraged  the  Papists,  for  the  undertaking  was 
resumed  shortly  afterwards;  and  they  have  for  some 
time  past  sustained  in  Syria  a patriarch  who  resides  at 
Haleb,  and  they  have  even  “Catholic  Jacobite  con- 
vents.” . The  inferiority  of  the  Syrian  Catholics  to  the 
Jacobites  has  induced  the  Protestants  of  England  and 
America  to  establish  missions  among  them,  and  they 
have  thus  far  met  with  tolerable  success.  See  Assema- 
ni, Bibl.  Or.  ii ; Piss,  de  Monopkys,  § 1-10 ; Neale,  East. 


JACQUELOT 

Church,  iii  (see  Index);  Abudachus,  IHsu  Jacobitarum 
(Oxf.  1700)  ; Gibbon,  Decline  and  Full  of  the  Rom.  Emp. 
(Harper’s  ed.),  iv,  551  sq. ; Migne,  Diet,  des  Ordrcs  re- 
ligieux,  ii,  561;  Wetzer  und  Welte,  Kirchen-Lex.  s.  v. ; 
Herzog,  Real-Encyhiopddie,  vi,  400  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Jacobs,  David,  a minister  of  the  Lutheran  Church, 
was  born  in  Franklin  County,  Pa.,  Nov.  22,  1805.  He 
was  educated  at  Jefferson  College,  Canonsburg,  Penn, 
(class  of  1825).  While  at  college  he  was  particularly 
distinguished  as  a linguist,  and  in  the  absence  of  the 
professor  of  languages  was  requested  to  hear  the  recita- 
tions in  Latin  and  Greek.  lie  commenced  his  theolog- 
ical studies  under  the  direction  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  B.  Kurtz, 
and  completed  them  in  the  Theological  Seminary  at 
Gettysburg  in  1827.  The  same  year  he  took  charge  of 
the  classical  department  established  in  connection  with 
the  seminary,  from  which  Pennsylvania  College  took 
its  origin.  He  was  very  successful  as  a teacher.  No 
one  ever  pursued  his  work  more  nobly,  or  with  an  aim 
more  exalted.  He  received  license  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel in  1829,  but  his  health  was  so  delicate  that  he  seldom 
officiated  in  the  pulpit.  He  died  Nov.  30,  1830,  in  the 
twenty-fifth  year  of  his  age,  at  Shepherdstown,  Va.,  as 
he  was  returning  from  a trip  to  the  South,  whither  he 
had  gone  in  pursuit  of  health.  In  talent  he  was  above 
the  ordinary  standard,  a Tipe  scholar,  and  those  who 
were  brought  in  contact  with  him  appreciated  his  ex- 
cellent character,  and  acknowledged  his  eminent  ser- 
vices. 

Jacomb,  Thomas,  D.D.,  a pious  Nonconformist  di- 
vine who  took  a prominent  part  in  the  ecclesiastical  af- 
fairs of  England  in  the  17tli  century,  was  born  m Leices- 
tershire in  1622.  He  studied  at  Magdalen  Hall,  Oxford, 
and  subsequently  became  fellow  of  Trinity  College, 
Cambridge.  During  the  Rebellion  he  obtained  the  liv- 
ing of  St.  Martin,  Ludgate,  but  was  ejected  in  1662,  dur- 
ing the  Bartholomew  ejectment  of  Nonconformists,  and 
died  March  27,  1687.  Stoughton  (Eccl.  Hist,  of  Engl, 
[ Ch.  of  the  Restoration],  i,  165)  says  that  Jacomb,  while 
a member  of  the  Savoy  Conference  [see  Indepen- 
dents], in  which  he  figured  very  prominently,  “ is  de- 
scribed as  a man  of  superior  education,  of  a staid  mind, 
of  temperate  passions,  moderate  in  his  counsels,  and  in 
the  management  of  affairs,  not  vehement  and  confident, 
not  imposing  and  overbearing,  but  receptive  of  advice, 
and  yielding  to  reason.”  lie  was  one  of  the  continua- 
tors  of  Poole’s  Annotations.  His  works,  which  are  now 
scarce,  are,  .4  Treatise  on  Holy  Dedication  [on  Psa.  xxx] 
(Lond.  1668,  8vo)  : — Several  Sermons  on  the  viiith  Chap- 
ter of  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans  [18  on  the  1st,  2d,  3d, 
and  4th  verses]  (London,  1672,  4to). — Darling,  Cyclop. 
Bibliog.  s.  v. ; Stoughton,  Eccles.  History  (Ch.  of  the  Res- 
toration), ii,  504,  505. 

J acquelot,  Isaac,  a French  Protestant  theologian, 
was  bom  at  Yassy  Dec.  16,  1647.  He  became  a minis- 
ter in  1668,  and  was  colleague  of  his  father,  the  pastor 
of  Yassy,  until  obliged  to  leave  in  consequence  of  the 
revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes.  He  resided  first  at 
Heidelberg,  then  (1686)  at  La  Haye,  where  he  became 
pastor  of  a French  congregation.  In  consequence  of 
some  trouble  he  had  with  Jurieu,  Benoit,  and  others,  he 
accepted  an  offer  of  the  king  of  Prussia,  who  had  heard 
him  preach,  and  had  learned  to  esteem  Jacquelot,  and 
in  1702  he  settled  at  Berlin  as  pastor  of  a French  church. 
He  died  there  Oct.  20,  1708.  He  wrote  Dissertations 
sur  P Existence  de  Dieu  (La  llaye,  1697,  4to;  Par.  1744, 
3 vols.  12mo): — Dissertations  sur  le  Messie  (La  Haye, 
1699,  8vo) : — La  Conformite  de  la  Foi  avec  la  Raison 
(Amst.  1705,  8vo):  — Repome  aux  Entretiens  composes 
par  M.  Bayle  contre  la  Conformite,  etc.  (Amsterd.  1707, 
8vo)  : — Traite  de  la  verite  et  de  V inspiration  du  1 'ieux 
et  du  Nouveau  Testament  (Rotterd.  1715, 8vo) : — Sermons 
(Gen.  1750,  2 vols.  12mo);  and  a number  of  controver- 
sial pamphlets  against  Benoit,  Jurieu,  W erenfels,  etc. 
See  Hist,  des  Ouvrages  des  Savants  (Dec.  1708)  ; Vie  de 
Jacquelot  (in  the  Dissertat.  sur  V Exist,  de  Dieu , Paris  ed. 


JAEL 


JACQUE3IIN  744 


1744)  ; Chauffcpie,  Dictionaire;  Nice'ron,  Memoir  es  (vol. 
vi);  Ilaag,  La  France  Protestante;  lloefer,  Nouv.  Bio<j. 
Generate,  xxvi,  367.  (J.  X.  1*.) 

Jacquemin,  James  Alexis,  a French  Roman  Cath- 
olic priest,  was  bom  at  Nancy  Aug.  4,  1750.  He  enter- 
ed the  Church  in  early  life,  and  was  for  a time  vicar  in 
a parish  of  his  native*  city.  He  met  with  considerable 
success  in  the  pulpit,  but  when,  in  1778,  he  wras  appoint- 
ed professor  of  theology  in  the  University  of  Nancy,  he 
readily  accepted  this  new  position.  During  the  first 
years  of  the  French  Revolution  he  was  one  of  the  ed- 
itors of  the  newspaper  called  Le  Catholiqne  de  Nancy. 
In  1791,  refusing  to  adhere  to  the  civil  constitution 
of  the  clergy,  he  was  obliged  to  leave  France,  and  he 
settled  in  Germany,  where  he  joined  his  bishop,  De  la 
Fare,  also  an  exile.  The  latter  having  appointed  him 
his  vicar-general,  Jacquemin  returned  to  France,  though 
exposed  tu  great  danger,  during  the  “ Reign  of  Terror.” 
He  subsequently  became  professor  of  philosophy  in  the 
College  of  Nancy.  In  1823  he  was  made  bishop  of  St. 
Die,  but  age  and  infirmities  soon  compelled  him  to  re- 
sign this  office,  and  he  retired  to  Nancy,  where  he  died, 
June  15,  1832.  He  wrote  De  Incarnations  Verbi  Domi- 
ni; Abrege  des  memoires  de  VAbbe  Barruel, pour  serrir 
d I'hist.  du  Jacobinisms  (Hamburg  [Nancy],  1801 ; Par. 
1817,  2 vols.  12mo).  See  Henrion,  Annuaire  Biogra- 
phique  (1830-34);  Biog.  des  Hommes  vivants;  lloefer, 
Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvi,  219.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Jactitation  of  Marriage  is  a suit  which  was 
formerly  competent  in  the  English  ecclesiastical  courts, 
and  now  is  competent  in  the  English  Divorce  Court,  to 
settle  a question  of  disputed  marriage.  If  a party  boast 
or  profess  that  he  or  she  is  married  to  another,  the  lat- 
ter may  institute  the  suit,  and  call  upon  the  former  to 
produce  proof  of  the  marriage.  If  this  is  not  done,  then 
a decree  passes  which  enjoins  the  party  to  perpetual  si- 
lence on  the  subject.  This  remedy  is  now  scarcely  ever 
resorted  to,  for,  in  general,  since  lord  Hardwick’s  Act 
(1766),  there  is  sufficient  certainty  in  the  forms  of  legal 
marriage  in  England  to  prevent  any  one  being  in  igno- 
rance whether  he  or  she  is  really  married  or  not — a re- 
proach which,  however,  is  often  made  against  the  law 
of  Scotland.  The  Scotch  suit  of  a declarator  of  putting 
to  silence,  which  is  equivalent  to  jactitation  of  marriage, 
is  often  resorted  to,  the  latest  and  most  notorious  in- 
stance of  its  use  being  that  in  the  Yelverton  marriage 
case. — Chambers,  Cyclopaedia, 

Jacu'bus  (IdicovfioQ  v.  r.  Tdpcrou/3oc,  Yulg.  Accu- 
bus),  given  in  the  Apocrypha  (1  Esdr.  ix,  48)  as  the 
name  of  one  of  the  Levites  who  supported  Ezra  in  read- 
ing the  law ; evidently  the  Akkub  (q.  v.)  of  the  corre- 
sponding Ilcb.  text  (Neh.  viii,  7). 

Ja'da  (Ilcb.  Yada ',  knowing;  Sept.  'Iacrcs  and 
Aovcai ),  the  last  named  of  the  two  sons  of  Onam,  a de- 
scendant of  Judah  through  Jerahmeel;  his  two  sons  are 
likewise  mentioned  (1  Chron.  ii,  28, 32).  B.C.  post  1612. 

Ja'dau  (Heb.  Yaddav',  "I^P,  probably  by  erroneous 
transcription  for  *"7,  Yiddo ',  “ Iddo rather  than  for 
Yadday id.,  as  in  the  margin;  Sept.  'la£«i  v.  r. 
’AeidjYulg.  Jeddu),  one  of  the  “sons”  of  Nebo  who  di- 
vorced their  Gentile  wives  after  the  Exile  (Ezra  x,  43). 
P>.C.  459. 

Jaddai.  See  Jadau. 

J addes,  a name  of  the  priests  of  the  genii  among 
the  islanders  of  Ceylon.  The  pagodas  or  chapels  where 
they  officiate  have  no  revenue,  and  any  pious  person 
who  builds  a chapel  officiates  in  it  himself  as  priest. 
1 he  exteriors  of  these  chapels  are  painted  with  repre- 
sentations of  halberds,  swords,  arrows,  shields,  and  the 
( The  natives  call  these  chapels  Jacco,  i.  e.  the 
devil’s  tenement,  Jacco  or  Jacca  signifying  devil;  the 
islanders  of  Ceylon,  like  many  other  savage  tribes,  wor- 
shipping the  devil  because  of  his  wickedness  and  evil 
propensities  (comp.  Lubbock,  Origin  of  Civilization,  p. 
159  sq.).  The  J addes,  when  lie  celebrates  the  festival 


of  Jacco,  shaves  his  head.  See  Knox,  Description  of 
Ceylon , pt.  iv,  ch.  v ; Broughton,  Biblioth.  Ilist.  Sac.  i, 
499;  Davy,  Account  of  Ceylon,  p.  118.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Jad'dua  (Heb.  Yaddu'a,  known;  Sept.  ’De- 
dova, ’Iadov,  ’ldova),  the  name  of  two  men  after  the 
time  of  the  Captivity. 

1.  One  of  the  chiefs  of  the  people  who  subscribed  the 
sacred  covenant  drawn  up  by  Neliemiah  (Neh.  x,  21). 
B.C.  cir.  410. 

2.  The  son  of  Jonathan,  and  the  last  liigh-priest 
mentioned  in  the  Old  Testament  (Neh.  xii,  11,  22).  He 
is  doubtless  the  person  alluded  to  by  Josephus  (Tnd- 
dovc;,  Ant.  xi,  8,  3-6)  as  exercising  the  pontifical  office 
at  the  time  of  the  capture  of  lyre  by  Alexander,  the 
Great  (B.C.  332),  and  as  coming  forth  from  Jerusalem 
at  the  head  of  the  priestly  body  to  meet  the  advancing 
conqueror,  and  tender  him  the  submission  of  the  city. 
See  Alexander.  In  that  case  his  name  must  have 
been  inserted  by  “ the  great  Synagogue”  after  the  Scrip- 
ture canon  (q.  v.)  had  been  made  up  by  Ezra  (B.C. 
cir.  406).  See  Chronicles.  “ We  gather  pretty  cer- 
tainly that  he  was  priest  in  the  reign  of  the  last  Persian 
king  Darius,  and  that  he  was  still  high-priest  after  the 
Persian  dynasty  was  overthrown,  i.  e.  in  the  reign  of 
Alexander  the  Great.  For  the  expression  ‘ Darius  the 
Persian'  (Neh.  xii,  22)  must  have  been  used  after  the 
accession  of  the  Grecian  dynasty;  and,  had  another 
high-priest  succeeded,  his  name  would  most  likely  have 

j been  mentioned.  Thus  far,  then,  the  book  of  Neliemiah 

: bears  out  the  truth  of  Josephus’s  history,  which  makes 

| Jaddua  high-priest  when  Alexander  invaded  Judiea. 
But  Josephus’s  story  of  his  interview  with  Alexander 
is  not,  on  that  account,  necessarily  true,  nor  his  account 
of  the  building  of  the  Temple  on  Mount  Gerizim  during 
Jaddua’s  pontificate,  at  the  instigation  of  Sanballat,  both 
of  which,  as  well  as  the  accompanying  circumstances, 
may  have  been  derived  from  some  apocryphal  book  of 
Alexandrian  growth,  since  lost,  in  which  chronology  and 
history'  gave  way  to  romance  and  Jewish  vanity.  Jo- 
sephus seems  to  place  the  death  of  Jaddua  after  that  of 
Alexander  (Ant.  xi,  8,  7).  Eusebius  assigns  twenty 
years  to  Jaddua’s  pontificate”  (Smith).  See  Ilervey, 
Genealogy  of  our  Lord,  p.  323  sq. ; Jarvis,  Church  of  the 
Redeemed,  p.  291.  See  High-priest. 

Ja'don  (Heb.  Yadon *} judge;  Sept,  has  Eta- 
ptov  [but  most  eds.  omit],Yulg.  Jadon),  a Mcronotliite 
who  assisted  in  reconstructing  the  walls  of  Jerusalem 
after  the  return  from  Babylon  (Neh.  iii,  7).  B.C.  446. 

JADON  (Tadwv)  is  the  name  attributed  by  Josephus 
(Ant.  viii,  8, 5)  to  the  man  of  God  from  Judah  who  with- 
stood Jeroboam  at  the  altar  at  Bethel — probably  intend- 
ing Iddo  the  seer.  By  Jerome  (Qu.  Hebr.  on  2 Chron. 
ix,  29)  the  name  is  given  as  Jaddo. — Smith. 

Ja'el  (Heb.  Ya'el',  a wild  goat  or  ibex,  as  in 
Psa.  civ,  18;  Job  xxxix,  1;  Sept.  Ta/p\,  Josephus  'Id- 
Ajj),  the  wife  of  Ileber  the  Kenite,  and  the  slayer  of  the 
oppressor  of  the  Israelites  (Judg.  iv,  17-22).  B.C.  1409. 
Heber  was  the  chief  of  a nomadic  Arab  clan  who  had 
separated  from  the  rest  of  his  tribe,  and  had  pitched  his 
tent  under  the  oaks,  which  had,  in  consequence,  received 
the  name  of  “oaks  of  the  wanderers”  (A.  Y.  plain  of  Za- 
anaim,  Judg.  iv,  11),  in  the  neighborhood  of  Kedesh- 
Naplithali.  See  Heber.  The  tribe  of  Heber  had  main- 
tained the  quiet  enjoyment  of  their  pastures  by  adopting 
a neutral  position  in  a troublous  period.  Their  descent 
from  Jethro  secured  them  the  favorable  regard  of  the 
Israelites,  and  they  were  sufficiently  important  to  con- 
clude a formal  peace  with  Jabin,  king  of  Hazor.  See 
Kenite. 

In  the  headlong  rout  which  followed  the  defeat  of 
the  Canaanitcs  by  Barak,  Sisera,  abandoning  his  char- 
iot the  more  easily  to  avoid  notice  (comp.  Homer,  II.  v, 
20),  fled  unattended,  and  in  an  opposite  directiou  from 
that  takeu  by  his  army.  On  reaching  the  tents  of  the 
nomad  chief,  he  remembered  that  there  was  peace  be- 


JAEL 


745 


JAEL 


tween  his  sovereign  and  the  house  of  Heber,  and  there- 
fore applied  for  the  hospitality  and  protection  to  which 
he  was  thus  entitled  (Harmer,  Obs.  i,  460).  “ The  tent 

of  Jael”  is  expressly  mentioned  either  because  the  ha- 
rem of  Ileber  was  in  a separate  tent  (Rosenmiiller,  Mor- 
genL  iii,  22),  or  because  the  Kenite  himself  was  absent 
at  the  time.  In  the  sacred  seclusion  of  this  almost  in- 
violable sanctuary  (Pococke,  East,  ii,  5)  Sisera  might 
well  have  felt  himself  absolutely  secure  from  the  incur- 
sions of  the  enemy  (Calmet,  Fragm.  voh  xxv) ; and 
although  he  intended  to  take  refuge  among  the  Ive- 
nites,  he  would  not  have  ventured  so  openly  to  violate 
all  idea  of  Oriental  propriety  by  entering  a woman’s 
apartments  (D'Herbelot,  Billiot h'eque  Orientale,  s.  v.  11a- 
ram)  had  he  not  received  Jael’s  express,  earnest,  and 
respectful  entreaty  to  do  so.  See  Harem.  He  accept- 
ed the  invitation,  and  she  flung  the  quilt  A. 

V.  “a  mantle;”  evidently  some  part  of  the  regular  fur- 
niture of  the  tent)  over  him  as  he  lay  wearily  On  the 
floor.  When  thirst  prevented  sleep,  and  he  asked  for 
water,  she  brought  him  buttermilk  in  her  choicest  ves- 
sel, thus  ratifying  with  the  semblance  of  officious  zeal 
the  sacred  bond  of  Eastern  hospitality.  Wine  would 
have  been  less  suitable  to  quench  his  thirst,  and  may 
possibly  have  been  eschewed  by  Heber’s  clan  (Jer. 
xxxv,  2).  Curdled  milk,  according  to  the  quotations  in 
Harmer,  is  still  a favorite  Arab  beverage,  and  that  this 
is  the  drink  intended  we  infer  from  Judg.  v,  25,  as  well 
as  from  the  direct  statement  of  Josephus  ( yd\a  da<pQo- 
pbg  ycii,  -1  nt.  v,  5,  4),  although  there  is  no  reason  to 
suppose  with  Josephus  and  the  Rabbis  (D.  Kimchi,  Jar- 
chi,  etc.)  that  Jael  purposely  used  it  because  of  its  sopo- 
rific qualities  (Bochart,  llieroz.  i,  473).  But  anxiety 
still  prevented  Sisera  from  composing  himself  to  rest 
until  he  had  exacted  a promise  from  his  protectress  that 
she  would  faithfully  preserve  the  secret  of  his  conceal- 
ment ; till  at  last,  with  a feeling  of  perfect  security,  the 
weary  and  unfortunate  general  resigned  himself  to  the 
deep  sleep  of  misery  and  fatigue.  Then  it  was  that 
Jael  took  in  her  left  hand  one  of  the  great  wooden  pins 
(A.Y.  “nail”)  which  fastened  down  the  cords  of  the 
tent,  and  in  her  right  hand  the  mallet  (A.Y.  “a  ham- 
mer”) used  to  drive  it  into  the  ground,  and,  creeping 
up  to  her  sleeping  and  confiding  guest,  with  one  terrible 
blow  dashed  it  through  Sisera’s  temples  deep  into  the 
earth.  With  one  spasm  of  fruitless  agony,  with  one 
contortion  of  sudden  pain,  “at  her  feet  he  bowed,  he 
fell;  where  he  bowed,  there  he  fell  down  dead”  (Judg. 
v,  27).  She  then  waited  to  meet  the  pursuing  Barak, 
and  led  him  into  her  tent,  that  she  might  in  his  pres- 
ence claim  the  glory  of  the  deed ! See  Barak. 

Many  have  supposed  that  by  this  act  she  fulfilled  the 
saying  of  Deborah,  that  God  would  sell  Sisera  into  the 
hand  of  a woman  (Judg.  iv,  9;  Josephus,  Ant.v,  5,  4), 
and  hence  they  have  supposed  that  Jael  was  actuated 
by  some  divine  and  hidden  iniluence.  But  the  Bible 
gives  no  hint  of  such  an  inspiration,  and  it  is  at  least 
equally  probable  that  Deborah  merely  intended  to  inti- 
mate the  share  of  the  honor  which  would  be  assigned 
by  posterity  to  her  own  exertions.  If,  therefore,  we 
eliminate  the  still  more  monstrous  supposition  of  the 
Rabbis  that  Sisera  was  slain  by  Jael  because  he  at- 
tempted to  offer  her  violence — the  murder  will  appear 
in  all  its  hideous  atrocity.  A fugitive  had  asked  and 
received  dakhil  (or  protection)  at  her  hands — he  was 
miserable,  defeated,  weary — he  was  the  ally  of  her  hus- 
band— he  was  her  invited  and  honored  guest — he  was 
in  the  sanctuary  of  the  harem— above  all,  he  was  con- 
fiding, defenceless,  and  asleep ; yet  she  broke  her  pledged 
faith,  violated  her  solemn  hospitality,  and  murdered  a 
trustful  and  unprotected  slumberer.  Surely  we  require 
the  clearest  and  most  positive  statement  that  Jael  was 
instigated  to  such  a murder  by  divine  suggestion. — 
Smith.  See  Hospitautv. 

It  does  not  seem  difficult  to  understand,  on  merely 
human  grounds,  the  object  of  Jael  in  this  painful  trans- 
action. Her  motives  seem  to  have  been  entirely  pru- 


dential ; and  on  prudential  grounds  the  very  circum- 
stance which  renders  her  act  the  more  odious — the  peace 
subsisting  between  the  nomad  chief  and  the  king  of  Ha- 
zor — must  to  her  have  seemed  to  make  it  the  more  ex- 
pedient. She  saw  that  the  Israelites  had  now  the  up- 
per hand,  and  was  aware  that,  as  being  in  alliance  with 
the  oppressors  of  Israel,  the  camp  might  expect  very 
rough  treatment  from  the  pursuing  force,  which  would 
be  greatly  aggravated  if  Sisera  were  found  sheltered 
within  it.  This  calamity  she  sought  to  avert,  and  to 
place  the  house  of  Heber  in  a favorable  position  with 
the  victorious  party.  She  probably  justified  the  act  to 
herself  by  the  consideration  that,  as  Sisera  would  cer- 
tainly be  taken  and  slain,  she  might  as  well  make  a 
benefit  out  of  his  inevitable  doom  as  incur  utter  ruin  in 
the  attempt  to  protect  him.  It  is  probable,  however, 
that  at  first  the  woman  was  sincere  in  her  proffers  of 
Arab  friendship ; but  the  quiet  sleep  of  the  warrior  gave 
her  time  to  reflect  how  easily  even  her  arm  might  rid 
her  kindred  people  of  the  oppressor,  and  she  was  thus 
induced  to  plot  against  the  life  of  her  victim.  It  does 
not  appear  that  she  committed  the  falsehood,  which  she 
was  requested  by  him  to  do,  of  denying  the  presence  of 
any  stranger  if  asked  by  a passer-by.  See  Kitto’s  Daily 
Bible  I llustrutions,  ad  loc. 

It  is  much  easier  to  explain  the  conduct  of  Jael  than 
to  account  for  the  apparently  eulogistic  notice  which  it 
receives  in  the  triumphal  ode  of  Deborah  and  Barak ; 
but  the  following  remarks  will  go  far  to  remove  the  dif- 
ficulty : There  is  no  doubt  that  Sisera  would  have  been 
put  to  death  if  he  had  been  taken  alive  by  the  Israelites. 
The  war-usages  of  the  time  -warranted  such  treatment, 
and  there  are  numerous  examples  of  it.  They  had, 
therefore,  no  regard  to  her  private  motives,  or  to  the 
particular  relations  between  Heber  and  Jabin,  but  be- 
held her  only  as  the  instrument  of  accomplishing  what 
was  usually  regarded  as  the  final  and  crowning  act  of  a 
great  victory.  The  unusual  circumstance  that  this  act 
was  performed  by  a woman’s  hand  was,  according  to  the 
notions  of  the  time,  so  great  a humiliation  that  it  could 
hardly  fail  to  be  dwelt  upon  in  contrasting  the  result 
with  the  proud  confidence  of  victory  which  had  at  the 
outset  been  entertained  (Judg.  v,  30).  Without  stop- 
ping to  ask  when  and  where  Deborah  claims  for  herself 
any  infallibility,  or  whether,  in  the  passionate  moment 
of  patriotic  triumph,  she  was  likely  to  pause  in  such 
wild  times  to  scrutinize  the  moral  bearings  of  an  act 
which  had  been  so  splendid  a benefit  to  herself  and  her 
people,  we  may  question  whether  any  moral  commenda- 
tion is  directly  intended.  What  Deborah  stated  was  a 
fact,  viz.  that  the  wives  of  the  nomad  Arabs  would  un- 
doubtedly regard  Jael  as  a public  benefactress,  and  praise 
her  as  a popular  heroine.  “ She  certainly  was  not 
‘ blessed’  as  a pious  and  upright  person  is  blessed  when 
performing  a deed  which  embodies  the  noblest  princi- 
ples, ami  which  goes  up  as  a memorial  before  God,  but 
merely  as  one  who  acted  a part  that  accomplished  an 
important  purpose  of  heaven.  In  the  same  sense,  though 
in  the  opposite  direction.  Job  and  Jeremiah  cursed  the 
day  of  their  birth  ; not  that  they  meant  to  make  it  the 
proper  subject  of  blame,  but  that  they  wished  to  mark 
their  deep  sense  of  the  evil  into  which  it  had  ushered 
them — mark  it  as  the  commencement  of  a life-heritage 
of  sorrow  and  gloom.  In  like  manner,  and  with  a closer 
resemblance  to  the  case  before  us,  the  psalmist  pro- 
nounces happy  or  blessed  those  who  should  dash  the 
little  ones  of  Babylon  against  the  stones  (Psa.cxxxvii, 
9),  which  no  one  who  understands  the  spirit  of  Hebrew 
poetry  would  ever  dream  of  construing  into  a proper 
benediction  upon  the  ruthless  murderers  of  Babylon’s 
children,  as  true  heroes  of  righteousness.  It  merely  an- 
nounces, under  a strong  individualizing  trait,  the  com- 
ing recompense  on  Babylon  for  the  cruelties  she  had 
inflicted  on  Israel ; her  own  measure  should  be  meted 
back  to  her : and  they  who  should  be  the  instruments 
of  effecting  it  would  execute  a purpose  of  God,  whether 
I they  might  themselves  intend  it  or  not.  Let  the  poet- 


JAEL 


V46 


JAGER 


ical  exaltation  of  Jael  be  viewed  in  the  light  of  these 
cognate  passages,  and  it  will  be  found  to  contain  noth- 
ing at  variance  with  the  verdict  which  every  impartial 
mind  must  he  disposed  to  pronounce  upon  her  conduct. 
It  is,  in  reality,  the  work  of  God’s  judgment,  through  her 
instrumentality,  that  is  celebrated,  not  her  mode  of  car- 
rying it  into  execution ; and  it  might  be  as  just  to  re- 
gard the  heathen  Medes  and  Persians  as  a truly  pious 
people  because  they  are  called  God’s  'sanctified  ones’  to 
do  his  work  of  vengeance  on  Babylon  (Isa.  xiii,  3),  as, 
from  tv  hat  is  said  in  Deborah’s  song,  to  consider  Jael  an 
example  of  righteousness’’  (Fairbairn).  See  Deborah. 

As  to  the  morality  of  the  act  of  Jael  for  which  she  is 
thus  applauded,  although  it  can  not  fairly  be  justified  by 
the  usages  of  any  time  or  people,  yet  the  considerations 
urged  by  Dr.  Robinson  (Biblical  Repos.  1831,  p.  007)  are 
of  some  force : “ Wc  must  judge  of  it.  by  the  feelings  of 
those  among  whom  the  right  of  avenging  the  blood  of 
a relative  was  so  strongly  rooted  that  even  Moses  could 
not  take  it  away.  Jael  was  an  ally  by  blood  of  the  Is- 
raelitish  nation ; [Sisera,  the  general  of]  their  chief  op- 
pressor, who  had  mightily  oppressed  them  for  the  space 
of  twenty  years,  now  lay  defenceless  before  her ; and  he 
was,  moreover,  one  of  those  whom  Israel  was  bound  by 
the  command  of  Jehovah  to  extirpate.  Perhaps,  too, 
she  felt  called  to  be  the  instrument  of  God  in  working 
out  for  that  nation  a great  deliverance  by  thus  extermi- 
nating the  chieftain  of  their  heathen  oppressor.  At 
least  Israel  viewed  it  in  this  light ; and,  in  this  view,  we 
can  not  reproach  the  heroine  with  that  as  a crime  which 
both  she  and  Israel  felt  to  be  a deed  performed  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  mandate  of  heaven.”  We  must, 
moreover,  not  forget  the  halo  with  which  military  suc- 
cess gilds  every  act  in  the  popular  eye,  and  that,  in 
times  of  war,  many  things  are  held  allowable  and  even 
commendable  which  would  be  Tcprobated  in  peace.  Dr. 
Thomson,  indeed  ( Land  and  Booh,  ii,  146  sq.),  justifies 
Jael’s  course  by  the  following  considerations  : 1.  Jabin, 
although  nominally  at  peace  with  the  Kenites,  had 
doubtless  inflicted  much  injury  upon  them  in  common 
with  their  neighbors  the  Israelites,  and  may  have  been 
^probably  was — specially  obnoxious  to  Jael  herself.  2. 
We  arc  not  to  assume  that  Bedouin  laws  were  of  strict 
force  among  the  settled  Kenites.  3.  Jael  must  have 
known  her  act  would  be  applauded,  or  she  would  not 
have  ventured  upon  it.  4.  There  is  every  reason  to 
believe  she  was  in  full  sympathy  with  the  Israelites, 
not  only  from  friendly,  but  also  religious  grounds ; and 
the  neutrality  of  the  Kenites  seems  to  be  mentioned 
merely  to  account  for  Sisera’s  seeking  her  tent,  although 
he  appears  to  have  felt  himself  insecure.  Nor  did  her 
promise  of  protection  contain  any  warrant  against  vio- 
lence at  her  hands,  but  only  of  secretion  from  the  hostile 
army.  See  Sisera. 

The  Jael  mentioned  in  Deborah’s  song  (Judg,  v,  6) — 
“In  the  days  of  Sbamgar  the  son  of  Anatb,  in  the  days 
of  Jael,  the  highways  were  unoccupied,  and  the  travel- 
lers walked  through  byways” — has  been  supposed  by 
some  (e.  g.  Gesenius,  Lex.  s.  v. ; Dr.  Robinson,  ut  supra ; 
Fiirst,and  others)  to  have  been  a local  judge  of  the  Is- 
raelites in  the  interval  of  anarch)'  between  Sbamgar 
and  Jabin.  It  is  not  necessary,  for  this  supposition,  to 
make  Jael  the  name  of  a man,  for  the  case  of  Deborah 
shows  that  the  place  of  judge  might  be  occupied  by  a 
female.  The  reasons  for  this  supposition  are,  1.  That 
the  state  of  things  described  in  Judg.  v,  6 as  existing  in 
Jael’s  days,  is  not  the  state  of  things  existing  in  the 
days  of  Jael,  the  wife  of  Ucber,  whose  time  was  famous 
for  the  restoration  of  the  nation  to  a better.  2.  That 
the  wife  of  a stranger  would  hardly  have  been  named  as 
marking  an  epoch  in  the  history  of  Israel.  (See  Ber- 
thcau  in  the  Exeget,  Ilandbuch,  ad  loc.)  But  there  is 
no  evidence  either  of  such  an  interval  or  of  such  a 
judgeship;  and  it  is,  therefore,  more  natural  to  refer  the 
name  to  the  wife  of  Ileber  as  the  most  prominent  char- 
acter of  the  period  referred  to,  the  recollection  of  her 
late  act  giving  her  a distinction  that  did  not  previously 


attach  to  her.  The  circumstance  that  the  name  Jael  is 
masculine  in  the  Hebrew  is  of  no  force,  as  it  is  freely 
used  (literally)  of  the  female  deer  (Prov.  v,  19,  “ roe”). 
See  J ltdges. 

Jaffe,  Piiiupp,  a celebrated  modem  Jewish  scholar, 
was  bom  at  Schwersenz,  near  the  city  of  Posen,  in 
Prussian  Poland,  about  1820.  His  early  education  he 
received  first  at  the  high  school  of  his  native  town,  and 
then  under  the  care  of  the  father  of  the  writer  of  this 
article.  After  graduating  at  the  Gymnasium  of  Posen, 
he  began  his  university  career  by  the  study  of  medi- 
cine, and  duly  obtained  his  degree.  He  declined,  how- 
ever, to  comply  with  the  wishes  of  his  friends  to  en- 
ter the  medical  profession,  and  continued  his  stay  at 
the  university,  devoting  himself  to  his  favorite  studies, 
history  and  philology.  In  1843  he  gave  to  the  world  a 
History  of  the  German  Empire  under  Lotkair  the  Saxon , 
and,  owing  to  the  excellence  of  this  work,  he  subse- 
quently became  a regular  contributor  to  Pertz’s  Mon- 
umenta  Germanics  Historica.  His  articles  and  essays 
— the  outgrowth  of  most  laborious  researches  — were 
read  eagerly,  and  admired  by  all  scholars  interested  in 
the  history  and  literature  of  Germany,  and  led  ulti- 
mately to  his  appointment  as  “extraordinary”  professor 
of  history  at  the  University  of  Berlin.  He  was  the  first 
Jew  upon  whom  the  honor  of  such  a distinguished 
appointment  was  conferred  by  the  Prussian  govern- 
ment. He  now  further  distinguished  himself  by  a eon- 
tribution  to  the  history  of  the  papacy — Regesta  Pontific. 
Roman.  adMCXCVIII  (Berol.l851,4to) — a work  which 
at  once  was  acknowledged  a masterpiece  in  its  depart- 
ment, and  will  forever  remain  valuable  for  the  chrono- 
logical records  of  the  Roman  hierarchy.  In  1868  Jaffe 
embraced  Christianity,  evidently  with  a design  to  fur- 
ther promotion,  from  which,  by  his  religious  profession, 
he  seemed  to  be  barred.  But  he  soon  repented  of  the 
step,  and  so  great  became  the  conflict  in  his  heart  that 
he  committed  suicide  in  the  summer  of  1870.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jagel,  Abraham,  an  Italian  Rabbi,  flourished  at 
Monselice  in  the  second  half  of  the  16th  and  the  first 
half  of  the  17th  century.  He  is  distinguished  as  the 
author  of  an  able  Jewish  catechism  of  doctrine  and  mor- 
als, which  he  published  under  the  title  of  Siu 
(Venice,  1587,  8vo,  and  often).  It  was  translated  into 
Latin  by  Carpzov,  Odhel,  Van  der  Hardt,  and  by  De 
Veil.  The  latter  published  it  with  the  Hebrew  text : 
Doctrina  Bona  (London,  1689,  8vo).  It  was  also  trans- 
lated into  German,  entitled  Das  Buck  von  Guten  Jiidi- 
schen  Lehren  (Lpzg.  1694).  Jagel  became  a eonvert  to 
Romanism,  and  was  baptized  under  the  name  of  Camil- 
lo  near  the  beginning  of  the  17th  century,  and  was  in 
1619  and  1620  Roman  censor  of  all  Hebrew  books.  He 
wrote  also  several  books  on  the  Jewish  doctrines  and 
usages,  of  which  a complete  list,  with  the  translations 
that  have  been  made  of  them,  is  given  by  Fiirst,  Bibli- 
oth.  Jud.  ii,  10  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jagello.  See  Poland. 

Jager,  Nathan,  a Lutheran  minister,  born  in  1823, 
was  educated  for  the  sacred  ministry  first  at  Gettysburg 
Theological  Seminary,  and,  completing  his  course  with 
the  Rev.  J.P.lIecht,  of  East  on.  was  dedicated  to  the  pas- 
toral office  in  the  summer  of  1845.  His  first  charge  was 
at  Orwigsburg,  whence  he  removed  to  Lyken’s  Valley ; 
thence  successively  to  Falkner’s  Swamp,  ITpper  Mount 
Bethel,  and  Reiglesville,  Bucks  County,  Penn.,  where  he 
died,  Jan.  2,  1864.  lie  was  one  of  a large  family  of 
Lutheran  ministers,  consisting  of  his  grandfather,  father- 
in-law,  brother-in-law,  and  a number  of  other  relatives 
of  the  same  name.  Ilis  literary  and  theological  attain- 
ments were  very  respectable,  acquired  amid  difficulties 
that  would  have  disheartened  most  other  men.  He 
studied  when  others  slept,  performing  during  the  day 
the  laborious  duties  of  large  pastorates,  and  pursuing 
his  studies  at  night.  Ilis  theological  knowledge  was 
quite  extensive.  He  was  an  earnest  man,  and  an  ener- 
getic laborer  in  the  cause  of  Christ. 


JAGGER 


747 


JAHATH 


Jagger,  Ezra,  a Methodist  minister,  was  born  at 
Southampton,  Long  Island,  N.  Y.,  Feb.  27, 1806.  He  was 
licensed  to  preach  in  1833,  and  joined  the  New  York 
Conference  the  year  following,  and  successively  filled 
the  circuits  of  Huntington,  Hempstead,  White  Plains 
and  Greenburg,  Westport,  Weston  and  Easton  Village, 
Burlington,  Derby,  Soutliold  and  Cutchogue,  Farming- 
dale,  Smithtown,  and,  at  last,  once  again  Huntington. 
He  died  April  2*2,  1850.  Jagger  was  a man  of  strict 
integrity,  great  benevolence,  mild  and  unassuming  in 
manner,  and  most  beloved  where  best  known.  He  was 
eminently  a man  of  prayer,  and  devoted  to  his  Master’s 
work. — Smith  (W.  C.),  Sacred  Memories  (N.  Y.  1870, 
12mo),  p.  20G,  207. 

Jaggernaut,  or  Jaggernaut  Puri,  or  Puri,  is 
the  name  of  a town  on  the  sea-coast  of  Orissa  (85°  54' 
long.,  and  19°  45'  lat.),  celebrated  as  one  of  the  chief 
places  of  pilgrimage  of  the  Hindus  in  India.  It  con- 
tains a temple  erected  to  Vishnu  in  A.D.  1198,  in  which 
stands  an  idol  of  this  Indian  deity,  called  Jaggernaut 
(commonly  Juggernaut),  a corruption  of  the  Sanscrit 
Jaganndtha,  i.  e.  lord  of  the  world.  “The  idol  is  a 
carved  block  of  wood,  with  a frightful  visage,  painted 
black,  with  a distended  mouth  of  a bloody  color.  On 
festival  days  the  throne  of  the  idol  is  placed  upon  a 
stupendous  movable  tower  sixty  feet  high,  resting  on 
wheels,  which  indent  the  ground  deeply  as  they  turn 
slowly  under  the  ponderous  machine.  Attached  to  it 
are  six  ropes  of  the  length  and  size  of  a ship’s  cable,  by 
which  the  people  draw  it  along.  The  priests  and  at- 
tendants are  stationed  around  the  throne,  on  the  car, 
and  occasionally  address  the  worshippers  in  libidinous 
songs  and  gestures.  Both  the  walls  of  the  temple  and 
the  sides  of  the  car  are  covered  with  the  most  indecent 
emblems,  in  large  and  durable  sculpture.  Obscenity 
and  blood  are  the  characteristics  of  the  idol’s  worship.” 
The  origin  of  this  idolatrous  worship  (which  gained  its 
notoriety  especially  by  the  fanaticism  which  has  in- 
duced, and  still  induces,  thousands  of  Hindus  to  sacrifice 
their  lives,  in  the  hope  of  attaining  eternal  bliss,  by 
throwing  themselves  under  the  wheels  of  the  chariot 
bearing  the  idol)  is  as  follows:  “A  king  desirous  of 
founding  a city  sent  a learned  Brahman  to  pitch  upon 
a proper  spot.  The  Brahman,  after  a long  search,  ar- 
rived upon  the  banks  of  the  sea,  and  there  saw  a crow 
diving  into  the  water,  and,  having  washed  its  body, 
making  obeisance  to  the  sea.  Understanding  the  lan- 
guage of  the  birds,  he  learned  from  the  crow  that  if  he 
remained  there  a short  time  he  would  comprehend  the 
wonders  of  this  land.  The  king,  apprized  of  this  occur- 
rence, built  on  the  spot  where  the  crow  had  appeared  a 
large  city,  and  a place  of  worship.  The  rajah  one  night 
heard  in  a dream  a voice  saying,  ‘ On  a certain  day  cast 
thine  eyes  on  the  sea-shore,  when  there  will  arise  out 
of  the  water  a piece  of  wood  fifty-two  inches  long,  and 
one  and  a half  cubits  broad  ; this  is  the  true  form  of  the 
deity;  take  it  up,  and  keep  it  hidden  in  thine  house 
seven  days;  and  in  whatever  shape  it  shall  then  appear, 
place  it  in  the  temple,  and  worship  it.’  It  happened  as 
the  rajah  had  dreamed,  and  the  image,  called  by  him 
Jaggannatha,  became  the  object  of  worship  of  all  ranks 
of  people,  and  performed  many  miracles.”  Another  le- 
gend, however,  relates  that  “ the  image  arising  from  the 
water  was  an  avatara,  or  incarnation  of  Vishnu;  it  was 
fashioned  by  Viswakarman,  the  architect  of  the  gods, 
into  a fourfold  idol,  which  represented  the  supreme  dei- 
ty, and  the  temple  itself  was  erected  over  it,  and  inau- 
gurated by  the  god  Brahms'!  and  his  divine  court.” 
This  may  have  given  rise  to  the  supposition  that  the 
worship  of  Jaggernath  (as  Max  M idler  [Chips,  i,  57] 
spells  it)  was  originally  in  honor  of  Vishnu.  See  New- 
comb, Cyclop,  of  Missions,  p.  495;  Sterling,  Account  of 
Orissa  (see  Index) ; Chambers,  Cyclop,  s.  v. 

Jaguis  are  the  hermits  of  the  Banians,  a sect  in 
East  India.  There  are  three  distinct  classes  of  them: 
(1)  the  Van-aphrastas,  (2)  the  San-jasiis,  and  (3)  the 
Avadoutas.  The  Van-aphrastas  live  in  forests,  many 


of  them  married  and  having  children,  feeding  on  the 
herbs  and  fruits  that  grow  wild ; but  they  scruple  to 
pluck  up  the  root  of  anything,  considering  it  a sinful 
act,  as  they  believe  the  soul  to  be  contained  in  the  root, 
supposing  everything  to  possess  a spiritual  life;  and,  of 
course,  believing  also  the  transmigration  of  souls.  The 
San-jasiis  affect  greater  abstinence,  oppose  matrimony, 
betel,  and  all  pleasures  whatsoever.  They  have  but 
one  daily  meal,  served  only  on  earthen-ware,  and  live 
on  alms.  Their  garments  they  dye  with  red  earth,  and 
always  cam*  a long  bamboo  cane  in  their  hands.  This 
class  is  a regular  nomad  tribe ; they  do  not  even  stay 
two  nights  in  the  same  place.  They  are  taught  in  their 
sacred  writings  to  look  forward  with  desire  to  the  sepa- 
ration of  the  soul  from  the  body.  Lust,  anger,  avarice, 
pride,  revenge,  and  the  love  of  thyis  world  they  consider 
their  most  formidable  enemies,  and  pray  to  their  gods 
to  deliver  them  from  one  and  all  of  these  sins.  The 
last-named  class,  the  Avadoutas,  forsake  their  families, 
both  their  wives  and  their  offspring,  and  anything  that 
would  make  one  of  them  dependent  on  the  other  for 
production.  Thus  they  deny  themselves  even  the  use 
of  those  things  which  the  other  two  classes  of  Jaguis 
are  wont  to  enjoy.  They  are  habilitated  only  with  a 
small  piece  of  linen  cloth  to  cover  their  sex.  Their 
food  they  procure  from  strangers,  to  whose  houses  they 
go  when  hungry,  and  eat  anything  that  is  offered  them. 
These  devotees  especially  frequent  the  banks  of  the  sa- 
cred Hindu  rivers  and  the  neighborhood  of  great  temples, 
both  for  religious  motives  and  in  order  to  obtain  most 
readily  alms  and  food,  particularly  milk  and  fruits.  They 
have  one  Oriental  custom,  viz.  rubbing  their  body  with 
ashes,  no  doubt  to  free  themselves  from  the  stain  of  sin. 
See  Dissert,  on  the  Religion,  etc.,  of  the  Banians,  apud  Re- 
lig.  Cer.  vol.  iii ; Craufurd,  Sketches  of  the  Hindoos,  i,  235 
sq. ; Broughton,  Biblioth.  Hist.  Sac.  i,  499.  (J.  II.  YT.) 

Ja'gur  (Heb.  Yagur',  place  of  sojourn ; Sept. 
Tayoiip  v.  r.  ’Acwp),  a city  on  the  south  or  ldumajan 
border  of  Judah,  mentioned  between  Eder  and  Kin  ah 
(Josh,  xv,  21).  “ Its  name  might  perhaps  indicate  that 

it  was  one  of  the  fortified  camping-grounds  of  the  bor- 
der Arabs”  (Kitto).  “ The  Jagur,  quoted  by  Schwarz 
( Palest . p.  99)  from  the  Talmud  as  one  of  the  bounda- 
ries of  the  territory  of  Ashkelon,  must  have  been  fur- 
ther to  the  north-west”  (Smith).  The  position  of  the 
town  here  considered  can  only  be  conjectured  as  not 
very  far  from  the  Dead  Sea.  It  is  not  mentioned 
among  the  towns  set  off  to  Simeon  (Josh,  xix,  2-8), 
though  it  probably  was  one  of  them.  It  was  possibly 
situated  in  wady  Jurrah,  which  runs  into  the  south-west 
end  of  the  Dead  Sea. 

Jail  (Heb.  Yah,  PP,  a contraction  for  triPP,  Jeho- 
vah, Psa.  Ixviii,  4,  elsewhere  rendered  “Lord”).  See 
Jehovah  ; Hallelujah.  It  also  enters  into  the  com- 
position of  many  Heb.  names,  as  Adoxijah,  Isaiaii,  etc. 

Ja'hath  (Hebrew*  Yach'ath,  rrp,  prob.  for  rTJT?, 
union ; Sept.  ’It'3,  but  T«3  in  1 Chron.vi,  43,  and  ’iya$ 
v.  r.  Td3-  in  1 Chron.  xxiv,  22),  the  name  of  a descend- 
ant of  Judah  and  of  several  Levites. 

1.  A son  of  Shimei  and  grandson  of  Gershom,  the 
son  of  Levi  (1  Chron.  xxiii,  10) ; yet  no  such  son  is 
mentioned  in  ver.  9,  where  the  three  sons  of  Shimei  are 

] by  some  error  (probably  the  transposition  of  the  latter 
clause)  attributed  to  his  brother  Laadan,  while  in  verse 
11  Jahath  is  stated  to  have  been  “chief”  (i.  e.  most,  nu- 
merous in  posterity)  of  the  four  sons  of  Shimei.  A 
similar  disagreement  appears  in  the  parallel  passage  (1 
Chron.  vi),  where  Jahath  (ver.  43)  occurs  as  the  son  of 
Gershom  (prob.  by  the  transposition  of  Shimei’s  name 
into  the  preceding  verse),  and  again  (ver.  20)  as  a son 
of  Libnah  (i.  e.  Laadan),  instead  of  Shimei  (comp.  Zim- 
nah,  the  son  of  Jahath,  ver.  20,  42).  B.C.  considerably 
post  1856. 

2.  Son  of  Reaiah  (or  Haroeh),  of  the  posterity  of 
Hezron,  and  father  of  two  sons  (1  Chron.  iv,  2).  B.C. 
post  1612. 


748 


JAKN* 


JAHAZ 

3.  One  of  the  sons  of  Shelomoth  (or  Shelomith),  a 
descendant  of  Izliar,  of  the  family  of  Kohath,  appointed 
to  a prominent  place  in  the  sacred  services  by  David  (1 
Chron.  xxiv,  22).  B.C.  1014. 

4.  One  of  the  Levitical  overseers  of  the  Temple  re- 
pairs instituted  by  Josiah ; he  belonged  to  the  family 
of  Merari  (2  Chron.  xxxiv,  12).  B.C.  623. 

Ja'haz  (Heb.  Ya'kats,  yrr,  trodden  down,  Isa.  xv, 
4;  Jer.  xlviii,  34;  Sept.  T aaod;  also  with  !"!  local  and 
in  pause,  rtSH",  Yuh'tsah,  Numb,  xxi,  23,  Sept,  tig 
’ laooct ; Deut.  ii,  32,  Sept,  tig  ’laad;  and  this  even 
with  a prefix,  xi>  20>  SePt-  £*£  ; 

but  likewise  with  !l  paragogic,  Yah'tsah,  Sept. 

'laoad.  Josh,  xiii,  18;  A.  Yers.  “ Jahaza;”  ’Irma,  Jer. 
xlviii,  21,  “ Jahazali ‘laaad,  Josh,  xxi,  36,  “ Jahazah  ;” 
*P t<pdg  v.  r.  ’laood,  2 Chron.  vi,  78,  “ Jahzah”),  a town 
beyond  the  Jordan,  where  Silion  was  defeated,  in  the 
borders  of  Moab  and  the  region  of  the  Ammonites 
(Numb,  xxi,  23;  Deut.  ii,  32;  Judg.  xi,  20);  situated 
in  the  tribe  of  Reuben  (Josh,  xiii,  18),  and  assigned  to 
the  Merarite  Levites  (Josh,  xxi,  36;  1 Chron.  vi,  78). 
In  Isa.  xv,  4;  Jer.  xlviii,  21,  it  appears  as  one  of  the 
Moabitish  places  that  suffered  from  the  transit  of  the 
Babylonian  conquerors  through  the  “plain  country”  (i.  e. 
the  Mishor.  the  mod.  Belka).  The  whole  country  east 
of  the  Dead  Sea  had  originally  been  given  to  the  Moab- 
ites and  Ammonites  (Gen.  xix,  36-38;  Deut.  ii,  19-22); 
but  the  warlike  Amorites  from  the  west  of  the  Jordan 
conquered  them,  and  expelled  them  from  the  region 
north  of  the  river  Arnon.  From  the  Amorites  the  Is- 
raelites took  this  country,  but  subsequently  the  Am- 
monites claimed  it  as  theirs  (Judg.  xi,  13),  and  on  the 
decline  of  Jewish  power  the  Moabites  and  Ammonites 
again  took  possession  of  it.  Ilitzig  (Zu  Jesa.  ad  loc.)  re- 
gards Jaliaz  and  Jalizah  as  different  places  (so  Keil  on 
Josh,  ad  loc.,  urging  that  they  are  distinguished  in  the 
passages  of  Jer.);  but  this  is  unnecessary  (so  Winer, 
lieulu-.  s.  v.  Jahaz),  and  at  variance  with  the  philology. 
It  appears  to  have  been  situated  on  the  edge  of  the  des- 
ert (see  Raumer,  Zug  d.  Isr.  p.  53 ; Hengstenberg,  B il- 
ea m,  p.  239).  See  Exodus.  From  the  terms  of  the  nar- 
rative in  Numb,  xxi  and  Deut.  ii  we  should  expect  that 
Jahaz  was  in  the  extreme  south  part  of  the  territory  of 
Sihon,  but  yet  north  of  the  River  Arnon  (see  Deut.  ii, 
24,  36;  and  the  words  in  verse  31,  “begin  to  possess”), 
and  in  exactly  this  position  a site  named  Jazasa  is 
mentioned  by  Schwarz  (Palest,  p.  227,  “ a village  to  the 
south-west  of  Dhiban”) ; but  this  lacks  confirmation,  es- 
pecially as  Eusebius  and  Jerome  ( Onomast . s.  v.  ’Itaoa, 
Jassa)  place  it  between  Medeba  (Mtjcapdju)  and  Dibon 
(jIlSovc,  Deblathaim);  and  the  latter  states  that  “Ja- 
haz lies  opposite  the  Dead  Sea,  at  the  boundary  of  the 
region  of  Moab.”  These  requirements  are  met  by  sup- 
posing Jahaz  to  have  been  situated  in  the  open  tract  at 
the  head  of  wady  Waleh,  between  Arnun  on  the  east, 
and  Jcbel  Humeh  on  the  west. 

Jaha'za  (Josh,  xiii,  18)  or  Jaha'zah  (Josh,  xxi, 
36;  Jer.  xlviii,  21).  See  Jaiiaz. 

Jahazi'ah  (Heb.  Yachzeyah',  FPTfP,  beheld  by  Je- 
hovah; Sept,  ’lading),  son  of  Tikvah,  apparently  a 
priest,  one  of  those  deputed  by  Ezra  to  ascertain  which 
of  the  Jews  had  married  Gentile  wives  after  the  return 
from  Babylon  (Ezra  x,  15).  B.C.  459. 

Jaha'ziel  (Hebrew  YachazieV , bN“TJV,  beheld  by 
God;  Sept.  1 e£u/X,  Ta£i»/X,  ’O^ojX,  ’A£n/X),  the  name 
of  five  men.  See  also  Jaiizicei.. 

1.  The  third  “son”  of  Hebron,  the  grandson  of  Levi 
through  Kohath  (1  Chron.  xxiii,  19;  xxiv,  33).  B.C. 
probably  post  1618,  perhaps  1014. 

2.  One  of  the  Benjamite  warriors  who  joined  David 
at  Ziklag  (1  Chron.  xii,  4).  B.C.  1055. 

3.  One  of  the  priests  who  preceded  the  sacred  ark 
with  trumpets  on  its  removal  to  Jerusalem  (1  Chron. 
xvi,  6).  B.C.  eir.  1043. 


4.  The  son  of  Zeehariah,  a Levite  of  the  family  of 
Asaph,  who  predicted  to  Jelioshaphat  his  triumph  over 
the  host  of  the  Moabites  with  such  decided  assurances. 
See  Jehoshaphat.  He  is  nowhere  else  mentioned  in 
Scripture,  but  his  prophecy  on  this  occasion  is  given  in 
full : “Then  upon  Jahaziel,  the  son  of  Zeehariah,  the 
son  of  Benaiah,  the  son  of  Jeiel,  the  son  of  Mattaniah,  a 
Levite  of  the  sons  of  Asaph,  came  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  in  the  midst  of  the  congregation;  and  he  said, 
Hearken  ye,  all  Judah,  and  ye  inhabitants  of  Jerusa- 
lem, and  thou,  king  Jehoshaphat,  thus  saitli  the  Lord 
unto  you,  Be  not  afraid  nor  dismayed  by  reason  of  this 
great  multitude;  for  the  battle  is  not  yours,  but  God’s. 
To-morrow  go  ye  down  against  them : behold,  they 
come  up  by  the  cliff  of  Ziz;  and  ye  shall  find  them  at 
the  end  of  the  brook,  before  the  wilderness  of  Jeruel. 
Ye  shall  not  need  to  fight  in  this  battle:  set  your- 
selves, stand  ye  still,  and  see  the  salvation  of  the  Lord 
with  you,  O Judah  and  Jerusalem  : fear  not,  nor  be  dis- 
mayed ; to-morrow  go  out  against  them,  for  the  Lord 
will  be  with  you”  (2  Chron.  xx,  14-17).  B.C.  eir.  896. 

5.  One  of  the  “ sons”  of  Sliechaniah,  whose  son  (Ben- 
Jaliaziel,  but  his  name  is  not  otherwise  given;  indeed, 
there  is  evidently  some  confusion  in  the  text ; comp.  ver. 
3)  is  said  to  have  returned  from  Babylon  with  300  males 
of  his  retainers  (Ezra  viii,  5).  B.C.  ante  459.  See 
Shechaniah. 

Jah'dai  (Heb.  Yahday ',  “•'nfl'1,  prob. grasper;  Sept. 
Tacrn),  a descendant  apparently  of  Caleb,  of  the  family 
of  Hezron;  his  sons’  names  are  given,  but,  as  his  own 
parentage  is  not  stated  (1  Chron.  ii,  47),  it  can  only  be 
conjectured  that  he  was  the  son  of  the  preceding  Gazez, 
the  son  (different  from  the  brother)  of  Haran  (ver.  46). 
B.C.  prob.  post  1612.  Various  other  suggestions  re- 
garding the  name  have  been  made,  as  that  Gazez,  the 
name  preceding,  should  be  Jahdai  (Iloubigant,  ad  loc.)  ; 
that  Jahdai  was  a concubine  of  Caleb  (Gruncnberg, 
quoted  by  Michaelis,  Adnot.  ad  loc.),  etc. ; but  these  are 
mere  groundless  suppositions  (see  Burrington,  i,  216; 
Bertheau,  Comment,  ad  loc.). 

J ah'diel  (Heb.  Yaclidiel ',  made  joyful  by 

God;  Sept.  Ttfti/X),  one  of  the  famous  chieftains  of  the 
tribe  of  Manasseli  resident  in  northern  Bashan  (1  Chron. 
v,  24).  B.C.  apparently  720. 

Jah'do  (Heb.  Yachdo',  "'irP,  his  union ; otherwise 
for  '“Hrr,  united;  Sept,  ’itlcai),  son  of  Buz  and  father 
of  Jeshishai,  of  the  descendants  of  Abihail,  resident  in 
Gilead  (1  Chron.  v,  14).  B.C.  between  1093  and  782. 

Jah'leel  (Heb.  Yachleel ',  hoping  in  God; 

Sept.  ’A^o //X),  the  last  named  of  the  three  sons  of  Zeb- 
ulon  (Gen.  xlvi,  14;  Numb,  xxvi,  26).  His  descend- 
ants are  called  Jahleelites  (Heb.  Yachleeli', 

Sept.  ’AxoqXi,  Numb,  xxvi,  26).  B.C.  1856. 

J ah'Ieelite  (Numb,  xxvi,  2G).  See  Jaiileel. 

Jall'mai  (Heb.  Yachmay',  protector;  Sept. 

’Ftjuou),  one  of  the  “sons”  of  Tola,  grandson  of  Issachar 
(1  Chron.  vii,  2).  B.C.  cir.  1658. 

Jahn,  Joiiaxx,  a distinguished  German  Roman 
Catholic  theologian  and  Orientalist,  was  born  at  Tas- 
witz,  in  Moravia,  June  18, 1750.  He  studied  at  the  Gym- 
nasium of  Znaym,  the  University  of  Ohniitz,  and  the 
Rom.  Cath.  Theological  Seminary  of  Brack,  entered  the 
Church,  and  was  for  some  time  a priest  at  Mislitz.  In 
1782  he  received  the  doctorate  from  Olmiitz,  and,  after 
having  filled  with  great  distinction  the  position  of  pro- 
fessor of  Oriental  languages  and  Biblical  hermeneutics 
at  Bruck,  he  was,  in  1789,  called  to  the  University  of 
Vienna  as  professor  of  the  Oriental  languages,  dogmat- 
ics, and  Biblical  archaeology.  At  this  high  school  he 
labored  successfully  for  seventeen  years,  amid  suspicions 
and  petty  persecutions  from  the  court  of  Rome  which 
pained  his  ingenuous  spirit.  Some  words  in  the  pref- 
ace of  his  Einleit.  in  d.  gottl.  Bucher  d.  alten  Bundes  (Yi- 
• enna,  1703,  1802,  1803,  2 vols.  8vo) ; the  assertion  that 


JAHZAH 


749 


JAIN  AS 


the  books  of  Job,  Jonah,  Judith,  and  Tobit  are  didactic 
peems ; and  that  the  demoniacs  in  the  N.  T.  were  pos- 
sessed with  dangerous  diseases,  not  with  the  devil,  were 
made  charges  against  him.  In  1792  complaints  of  his 
nnsounduess  were  laid  before  the  emperor  Francis  II  by 
cardinal  Migazzi,  which  resulted  in  the  appointment  of 
a special  commission  to  examine  the  charges.  Atliough 
it  was  decided  that  Jahn’s  views  were  not  heterodox, 
they  cautioned  him  to  be  more  careful  in  the  future  in 
expressing  opinions  likely  to  lead  to  interpretations 
contrary  to  the  dogmas  of  the  Church , and  even  suggest- 
ed a change"  of  the  obnoxious  passages  (comp.  Henke, 
Archie/,  d.  neusste  Kirchengeschichte,  ii,  51  sq. ; P.  J.  S. 
Iiuth,  Versuck  einer  Kirchengesch.  d.  \S,en  Jahrh.  ii,  375, 
376).  Though  he  honestly  and  willingly  submitted, 
his  detractors  continued  their  machinations  till  he  was 
(in  1806)  removed  from  the  congenial  duties  of  an  office 
to  which  he  had  dedicated  his  life,  and  was  made,  merely, 
of  course,  to  prevent  scandal  which  might  have  resulted 
from  a deprivation  of  all  dignity,  canon  or  Domherr  in 
the  metropolitan  church  of  St.  Stephen.  Even  before 
he  was  compelled  to  resign  his  professorship,  two  of  his 
books,  Introductio  in  libros  sacros  Veteris  Testamenti  in 
compendium,  redacta  (Vienna,  1804),  and  Archceologia 
Biblica  in  compendium  redacta  (Vienna,  1805),  which 
were  then  very  popular  among  the  university  students, 
were  condemned  and  plaeed  on  the  Index,  without  their 
author  being  heard  in  his  defence.  Jalm  died  Aug.  16, 
1816.  Besides  the  works  which  we  have  had  occasion 
to  cite,  and  a series  of  grammars  and  chrestomathies  on 
the  Hebrew,  Syriac,  Arabic,  and  Chaldee  languages,  he 
wrote,  Biblische  A rchaologie  (Vienna,  1797-1805, 5 vols. ; 
vols. i and  ii, 2d  edition,  1817-1825)  : — Lexicon  Arabico- 
Latinum,  Chrestomathice  Arabicce.  accommodatum  (Vien. 
1802) : this  work  was  considered  the  best  of  its  kind 
until  the  publication  of  a similar  production  by  Sylves- 
ter de  Sacy : — Biblia  Ilebraica  digessit,  et  graviores  lec- 
tionum  rarietates  adjecit  (Vien.  1806,  4 vols.  royal  8vo) : 
— Enchiridion  Hermeneutical  generalis  tabular  um,  etc. 
(Vienna,  1812;  with  an  Appendix  hermeneut .,  s.  exerci- 
tationcs  exegeticce , Vienna,  1813);  — Vaticinia  Prophe- 
tarum  de  Jesu  Messia,  commenturius  criticus  in  libros 
projiketicos  Veteris  Testamenti  (Vien.  1815),  ete.  Some 
time  after  his  death  appeared  Xachtrage  zu  John's  theo- 
logischen  WerTcen , published  from  his  3ISS.  (Tubingen, 
1821),  which  contained  six  interesting  dissertations  on 
various  Biblical  subjects,  and  with  them  some  letters  of 
Jahn’s,  giving  a clew  to  the  motives  of  the  persecutions 
directed  against  him.  Jahn’s  memory  deserves  to  be 
cherished  by  all  true  lovers  of  Oriental  scholarship.  He 
furnished  text-books  for  the  study  of  those  languages 
superior  to  any  of  his  time,  and,  although  they  are  at 
present  obsolete,  he  certainly  aided  modern  scholarship 
by  furnishing  superior  tools.  As  a theological  writer  he 
was  clear  and  methodical,  and  his  numerous  works,  of 
which  several  enjoy  an  English  dress,  “diffused  a 
knowledge  of  Biblical  subjects  in  places  and  circles 
where  the  books  of  Protestants  would  searcely  have 
been  received.  The  latter,  however,  have  appreciated 
his  writings  fully  as  much  as  Roman  Catholics.  He 
was  not  profound  in  any  one  thing,  because  he  scattered 
his  energies  over  so  wide  a field ; but  he  was  a most 
useful  author,  and  one  of  his  books  (the  A rchceology ) is 
still  the  largest  and  best  on  the  subjects  of  which  it 
treats.”  As  a theologian  of  the  Romish  Church  he  was 
certainly  exceedingly  liberal,  so  much  so  that  Ileng- 
stenberg  (on  the  Pentateuch)  rather  finds  fault  with 
him.  See  Felder,  Gelehrt.  Lex.  d.  Kathol.  Geistlichkeit, 

i,  337 ; 11.  Doring,  J).  gelehrten  Tlieologen  Deutschlands , 

ii,  7 sq. ; Meusel,  Gelehrt.  Deutschlands  (5th  ed.),  iii,  510 ; 
x,  13;  xi,  994;  xiv,  255;  xviii,  254;  xxiii,  18;  Ersch 
u.  Gruber,  Allg.  Encyk. ; Kitto,  Bibl.  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Wer- 
ner, Gesch.  d.  Kathol.  Theol.  p.  273  sq. 

Jahzah  (1  Chron.  vi,  78).  See  Jahaz. 

Jah'zeel  (Heb.  YachtseeT , bx’jrr,  allottedby  God ; 
Sept.  ’AatijX),  the  first  named  of  the  sons  of  Naphtali 


(Gen.  xlvi,  24).  His  descendants  are  called  Jahzeel- 
ites  (Heb.  YachtseelT , ibxiirP,  Sept.  ’AaujXi,  Numb, 
xxvi,  48).  In  1 Chron.  vii,  13,  the  name  is  written 
Jahziel  (^SV^rP,  YachtsieV,  id. ; Sept. ’lacrujX).  B. 
C.  1856. 

J ah'zeelite  (Numb,  xxvi,  48).  See  Jahzeel. 

Jah'zerah  (Hob.  Yackze'rah,  PHTrP,  returner; 
but  Gesenius  prefers  to  read  rrTtV,  i.  e.  Jahaziah; 
Sept.  'le^ptag  v.  r.  'E^tpd,  Vulg.  Jezra ),  son  of  Mesliul- 
lam  and  father  of  Adiel,  a priest  (l  Chron.  ix,  12).  B.C. 
long  ante  536.  He  is  probably  the  same  with  Ahasai, 
the  father  of  Azareel  (Neh.  xi,  13),  since  the  preceding 
and  the  following  name  are  alike. 

Jah'ziel  (l  Chron.  vii,  13).  See  Jahzeel. 

Jailor  ( dtopocpvXaZ , guard  of  a prisoner,  Acts  xvi, 
23,  27,  36).  See  Piiison. 

J ainas,  the  name  of  a very  powerful  heterodox  sect 
of  Hindus  particularly  flourishing  in  the  southern  and 
western  parts  of  Hindustan.  Their  name,  Jainas , sig- 
nifies followers  of  Jina,  the  generie  name  of  deified 
saints ; but,  as  these  saints  are  also  called  A rhat,  the 
sect  is  frequently  called  A rhatas.  The  tenets  of  this 
sect  are  in  several  respects  analogous  to  those  of  the 
Buddhists  [see  Buddhism],  but  they  resemble  in  others 
those  of  the  Brahmanical  Hindus.  Like  the  Buddhists, 
they  deny  the  divine  origin  and  authority  of  the  Veda 
(which,  however,  they  do  not  hesitate  to  quote  if  the 
doctrines  of  the  latter  are  conformable  to  the  Jaina  ten- 
ets), and  worship  certain  saints  whom  they  consider  su- 
perior to  the  other  beings  of  their  pantheon.  They  dif- 
fer, indeed,  from  them  in  regard  to  the  history  of  these 
personages,  but  the  original  notion  which  prevails  in  this 
worship  is  the  same.  Like  the  Brahmanical  Hindus, 
on  the  other  hand,  they  admit  the  institution  of  caste, 
and  perform  the  essential  ceremonies  called  Sanskdi'as 
(q.  v.),  and  recognise  some  of  the  subordinate  deities  of 
the  Hindu  pantheon  — at  least  apparently,  as  they  do 
not  pay  especial  homage  to  them,  and  as  they  disregard 
completely  all  those  Brahmanical  rites  which  involve 
the  destruction  of  animal  life.  The  Jainas  have  their 
own  Puninas  and  other  religious  books,  which  in  the 
main  confine  themselves  to  a delineation  of  their  T6r- 
thankharas,  or  deified  teachers  of  the  sect.  The  Vedas 
of  the  Brahmans  they  supply  by  their  Siddhdntas  and 
Agamas. 

Their  peculiar  doctrines  are  that  “all  objects,  mate- 
rial or  abstract,  are  arranged  under  nine  categories,  call- 
ed Tattwas  (truths  or  principles),  of  which  we  need  no- 
tice only  the  ninth  and  last,  called  Moksha,  or  liberation 
of  the  vital  spirit  from  the  bonds  of  action,  i.  e.  final 
emancipation.  In  reference  to  it  the  Jainas  not  only 
affirm  that  there  is  such  a state,  but  they  define  the  size 
of  the  emancipated  souls,  the  place  where  they  live, 
their  tangible  qualities,  the  duration  of  their  existence, 
the  distance  at  which  they  are  from  one  another,  their 
parts,  natures,  and  numbers.  Final  emancipation  is  only 
obtained  ‘in  a state  of  manhood  (not  in  that  of  a good 
demon,  or  brute),  while  in  possession  of  five  senses: 
while  possessing  a body  capable  of  voluntary  motion,  in 
a condition  of  possibility ; while  possessing  a mind, 
through  the  sacrament  of  the  highest  asceticism,  in  that 
path  of  rectitude  in  which  there  is  no  retrogression; 
through  the  possession  of  perfect  knowledge  and  vision; 
and  in  the  practice  of  abstinence.’-  Those  who  attain  to 
final  liberation  do  not  return  to  a worldly  state,  and 
there  is  no  interruption  to  their  bliss.  They  have  per- 
fect vision  and  knowledge,  and  do  not  depend  on  works 
(see  J.  Stevenson,  The  Kalpa  Sutra  and  Nava  Tattica). 
The  principles  of  faith,  as  mentioned  before,  are  common 
to  all  classes  of  Jainas,  but  some  differences  occur  in  the 
practice  of  their  duties,  as  they  are  divided  into  relig- 
ious and  lay  orders — Yatis  and  Sravakas.  Both,  of 
course,  must  plaee  implicit  belief  in  the  doctrines  of  their 
saints;  but  the  Yati  has  to  lead  a life  of  abstinence, 
taciturnity,  aud  contiuence ; he  should  wear  a thin  cloth 


JAIR 


AINAS  750 


over  his  mouth  to  prevent  insects  from  flying  into  it, 
and  he  should  carry  a brush  to  sweep  the  place  on  which 
he  is  about  to  sit/to  remove  any  living  creature  out  of 
the  way  of  danger ; but,  in  turn,  he  may  dispense  with 
all  acts  of  worship,  while  the  Sravaka  has  to  add  to  the 
observance  of  the  religious  and  moral  duties  the  practi- 
cal worship  of  the  saints,  and  a profound  reverence  for 
his  more  pious  brethren.  The  secular  Jama  must,  like 
the  ascetic,  practice  the  four  virtues— liberality,  gentle- 
ness, piety,  and  penance ; he  must  govern  his  mind, 
tongue, and  acts;  abstain  at  certain  seasons  from  salt, 
flowers,  green  fruits,  roots,  honey,  grapes,  tobacco ; drink 
water  thrice  strained,  and  never  leave  a liquid  uncover- 
ed, lest  an  insect  should  be  drowned  in  it;  it  is  his  duty, 
also,  to  visit  daily  a temple  where  some  of  the  images  of 
the  Jaina  saints  are  placed,  walk  round  it  three  times, 
make  an  obeisance  to  the  image,  and  make  some  offer- 
ings of  fruits  or  flowers,  while  pronouncing  some  such 
formida  as  ‘ Salutation  to  the  Saints,  to  the  Pure  Exist- 
ences, to  the  Sages,  to  the  Teachers,  to  all  the  Devout  in 
the  world.’  The  reader  in  a Jaina  temple  is  a Yati,  but 
the  ministrant  priest  is  not  seldom  a Brahman,  since  the 
Jainas  have  no  priests  of  their  own,  and  the  presence  of 
such  Brahraanical  ministrants  seems  to  have  introduced 
several  innovations  in  their  worship.  In  Upper  India 
the  ritual  in  use  is  often  intermixed  with  formulas  be- 
longing more  properly  to  the  Saiva  and  Siikta  wor- 
ship (see  Hindu  Sects  under  India),  and  images  of  Siva 
and  his  consort  take  their  place  in  Jaina  temples.  In 
the  south  of  India  they  appear,  as  mentioned  before,  to 
observe  also  all  the  essential  rites  or  Sanskaras  of  the 
Erahmanical  Hindu.  The  festivals  of  the  Jainas  are 
especially  those  relating  to  events  in  the  life  of  their 
deified  saints ; but  they  observe,  also,  several  common  to 
other  Hindus,  as  the  spriug  festival,  the  Srlpanchami, 
and  others”  (Chambers,  Cyclopedia,  s.  v.). 

The  sect  is  divided  into  two  principal  factions — the 
Digambaras  and  the  Swetambaras.  The  name  of  the 
former  signifies  “ sky-clad,”  or  naked,  and  designated 
the  ascetics  who  went  unclad ; but  at  present  they  wear 
colored  garments,  and  dishabilitate  only  at  meal-times. 
The  name  of  the  latter  faction  means  “ one  who  wears 
white  garments.”  But  it  is  not  mainly  in  dress  that 
these  two  factions  are  distinct  from  each  other ; there 
are  said  to  be  no  less  than  seven  hundred  different  points 
upon  which  they  split,  84  of  which  are  considered  vital 
by  each  party.  Thus,  e.  g.  “ the  Swetambaras  decorate 
the  images  of  their  saints  with  ear-rings,  necklaces,  arm- 
lets,  and  tiaras  of  gold  and  jewels,  whereas  the  Digam- 
baras leave  their  images  without  ornaments.  Again, 
the  Swetambaras  assert  that  there  are  twelve  heavens 
and  sixtv-four  Indras,  whereas  the  Digambaras  main- 
tain that  there  are  sixteen  heavens  and  100  Indras.  In 
the  south  of  India  the  Jainas  are  divided  into  two 
castes ; in  Upper  Hindustan,  however,  they  are  all  of  one 
caste.  It  is  remarkable  that  amongst  themselves  they 
recognise  a number  of  families  between  which  no  inter- 
marriage can  take  place,  and  that  they  resemble  in  this 
respect  also  the  ancient  Brahmanical  Hindus,  who  estab- 
lished similar  restrictions  in  their  religious  codes. 

“ As  regards  the  pantheon  of  the  Jaina  creed,  it  is 
still  more  fantastical  than  that  of  the  Brahmanical  sects 
(whence  it  is  borrowed  to  a great  extent),  but  without 
any  of  the  poetical  and  philosophical  interest  which  in- 
heres in  the  gods  of  the  Vedic  time.  The  highest  rank 
amongst  their  numberless  hosts  of  divine  beings — di- 
vided by  them  into  four  classes,  with  various  subdi- 
visions—they  assign  to  the  deified  saints,  whom  they 
call  Jinn,  or  A rhat , or  Tirthakara,  besides  a variety  of 
other  generic  names.  The  Jainas  enumerate  twenty- 
four  Tirthakaras  of  their  past  age,  twenty-four  of  the 
present,  and  twenty-four  of  the  age  to  come ; and  they 
invest  these  holy  personages  with  thirty-six  superhu- 
man attributes  of  the  most  extravagant  character.  Not- 
withstanding the  sameness  of  these  attributes,  they  dis- 
tinguish the  twenty-four  Jinas  of  the  present  age  from 
each  other  in  color,  stature,  and  longevity.  Two  of 


them  are  red,  two  white,  two  blue,  two  black ; the  rest 
are  of  a golden  hue,  or  a yellowish-brown.  The  other 
two  peculiarities  are  regulated  by  them  with  equal  pre- 
cision, and  according  to  a system  of  decrement,  from 
Rishabha,  the  first  Jina,  who  was  500  poles  in  stature, 
and  lived  8,400,000  great  years,  down  to  Mahavira,  the 
twenty-fourth,  who  had  degenerated  to  the  size  of  a 
man,  and  was  no  more  than  forty  years  on  earth — the 
age  of  his  predecessor,  Par  strand/ ha,  not  exceeding  100 
years.  The  present  worship  is  almost  restricted  to  the 
last  two  Tirthakaras ; and,  as  the  stature  and  years  of 
these  personages  have  a reasonable  possibility,  H.  T. 
Colebrooke  inferred  that  they  alone  are  to  be  consider- 
ed as  historical  personages.  As,  moreover,  amongst  the 
disciples  of  Mahavira  there  is  one,  Indrabhuti,  who  is 
called  Gautama,  and  as  Gautama  is  also  a name  of  the 
founder  of  the  Buddha  faith,  the  same  distinguished 
scholar  concluded  that,  if  the  identity  between  these 
names  could  be  assumed,  it  would  lead  to  the  further 
surmise  that  both  these  sects  are  branches  of  the  same 
stock.  But  against  this  view,  which  would  assign  to 
the  Jaina  religion  an  antiquity  even  higher  than  543 
B.C.  (the  date  which  is  commonly  ascribed  to  the  apo- 
theosis of  Gautama  Buddha),  several  reasons  are  alleged 
by  professor  Wilson.  As  to  the  real  date,  however,  of 
the  origin  of  the  Jaina  faith,  as  the  same  scholar  justly 
observes,  it  is  immersed  in  the  same  obscurity  whieh  in- 
vests all  remote  history  amongst  the  Hindus.  We  can 
only  infer  from  the  existing  Jaina  literature,  and  from 
the  doctrines  it  inculcates,  that  it  came  later  into  exist- 
ence than  the  Buddhist  sect.”  See  Colebrooke,  Miscella- 
neous Essays  ; Wilson,  Woi'ks,  i (Lond.  1862) ; Trevor,  In- 
dia, its  Natives  and  A fissions,  p.  109  sq. ; Chambers,  Cy- 
clopedia, s.  v.  Comp.  India  ; Hinduism. 

Ja'l'r  (Hebrew  rear',  “PSO,  enliyhtener  ; Sept. ’laip, 
Y astp ; but  in  1 Chron.  ii,  22,  some  copies  ’A tip ; in 
Esth.  ii,  5,  ’ laipog ; compare  ’Idtipof,  Mark  v,  22;  Jose- 
phus, I Yar,  vi,  1,  8),  the  name  of  three  men,  also  of  one 
other  of  ditferent  form  in  the  Hebrew. 

1.  The  son  of  Segub,  which  latter  was  of  the  tribe  of 
Manasseh  on  his  mother’s  side  [see  Adoption],  but  of 
Judah  on  his  father’s  (1  Chron.  ii,  22) ; but  Jair  is  reck- 
oned as  belonging  to  Manasseh  (Numb,  xxxii,  41 ; Dcut. 
iii,  14 ; 1 Kings  iv,  13),  probably  on  account  of  his  ex- 
ploits and  possessions  in  Gilead,  where  he  appears  to 
have  been  brought  up  with  his  mother  (comp.  1 Chron. 
ii,  21),  being  perhaps  an  illegitimate  child  (see  llaumer 
in  Tholuek’s  Liter.  Anz.  1836,  p.  11),  or,  at  ah  events,  her 
heir  (Schwarz,  Palest,  p.  185),  although  his  possessions 
might  strictly  be  claimed  as  an  appanage  to  the  tribe 
of  Judah  (Josh,  xix,  34).  See  Judaii  upon  Jordan. 
He  distinguished  himself  in  an  expedition  against  the 
kingdom  of  Bashan,  the  time  of  which  is  disputed,  but 
may  probably  be  referred  to  the  last  year  of  the  life  of 
Moses  (B.C.  1618),  and  which  seems  to  have  formed  part 
of  the  operations  connected  with  the  conquest  of  the  coun- 
try east  of  the  Jordan  (1  Chron.  iii,  23;  Numb,  xxxiii, 
41;  Deut.  iii,  14).  He  settled  in  the  part  of  Argob 
bordering  on  Gilead,  where  we  find  the  small  towns  thus 
taken  (retaken)  by  him  named  collectively  Havoth- 
jair,  or  “Jair’s  villages”  (Numb,  xxxii,  41;  Deut.  iii, 
14;  Josh,  xiii,  30;  1 Kings  iv,  13;  1 Chron.  ii,  22).  See 
Havotii-jair.  These  are  variously  stated  to  have 
been  twenty-three  (1  Chron.  ii,  22),’  thirty  (Judg.  x,  4), 
and  sixty  in  number  (1  Chron.  ii,  23 ; Josh,  xiii,  30 ; 1 
Kings  iv,  13,  in  which  last  passage  they  are  said  to 
have  been  “ great  cities,  with  walls  and  brazen  bars”). 
The  discrepancy  may  easily  be  reconciled  by  the  sup- 
position (warranted  by  Numb,  xxxii,  39,  40)  that  al- 
though Jair,  in  conjunction  with  his  relatives,  captured 
the  whole  sixty  cities  composing  the  Gileadite  district 
of  the  kingdom  of  Og  in  Bashan  (Deut.  iii,  4),  only 
twenty-three  of  these  were  specially  assigned  to  him; 
whereas,  at  a later  date,  his  portion  may  have  received 
some  accessions;  or  the  number  attributed  to  his  de- 
scendant of  the  same  name  may  be  only  a round  or  ap- 
proximate estimate,  as  being  about  one  half  the  entire 


JAIRITE 


V51 


JAMAICA 


number.  (For  other  methods  of  adjustment,  see  Wi- 
ner’s Itealworterbuch,  s.  v.  Jair.) 

2.  The  eighth  judge  of  Israel,  a native  of  Gilead,  in 

Manasseh  (Josephus,  Ant.v,  7,  6,  ’latiprjg),  beyond  the 
Jordan,  and  therefore  probably  descended  from  the  pre- 
ceding, with  whom,  indeed,  he  is  sometimes  confound- 
ed. lie  rided  twenty-two  years  (B.C.  1296-1274),  and 
his  opulence  is  indicated  in  a manner  characteristic  of 
the  age  in  which  he  lived “ He  had  thirty  sons,  that 
rode  on  thirty  ass-colts  (Q*n^),  and  they  had  thirty 
cities  again),  which  are  called  Havoth-jair,  in 

the  land  of  Gilead”  (Judg.  x,  3,  4).  A young  ass  was 
the  most  valuable  beast  for  riding  then  known  to  the 
Hebrews;  and  that  Jair  had  so  many  of  them,  and  was 
able  to  assign  a village  to  every  one  of  his  thirty  sons, 
is  very  striking  evidence  of  his  wealth  (see  Kitto’s  Dai- 
ly Bible  Illustrat.  or  Judg.  v,  6-10).  The  twenty-three 
villages  of  the  more  ancient  Jair  were  probably  among 
the  thirty  which  this  Jair  possessed.  His  burial-place 
was  Camon,  doubtless  in  the  same  region  (Judg.  x,  5). 
It  is  probably  one  of  his  descendants  (so  numerous)  that 
Is  called  a Jairite  (Heb.  Ya'iri',  Sept.  ’lap/,  2 

Sam.  xx,  26).  Possibly,  however,  the  genuine  reading 
was  ‘nrP,  the  Jathrite.  See  Ira. 

3.  A Benjamite,  son  of  Shimei  and  father  of  Morde- 
cai,  Esther’s  uncle  (Esth.  ii,  5).  B.C.  ante  598. 

4.  (Ileb.  Year',  “Pan  marg.,  but  text  Yaor',  ‘Vi^; 

perh.  ciieake;  Sept.  ’I attp,  Vulg.  corruptly  saltus.)  The 
father  of  Elhanan,  which  latter  slew  the  brother  of  Go- 
liath (1  Chron.  xx,  5).  In  the  parallel  passage  (2  Sam. 
xxi,  19)  we  find,  instead  of  Jair,  “ Jaare-”  ("H^,  ap- 
parently the  plur.  of  the  other  word,  q.  d.  a forest; 

Sept.  'I  ape,  Vulg.  again  salt  us),  witli  the  addition  “ Or- 
egim”  (D^^X,  weavers;  Sept.  i^aiVoi'rfC,  Vulg.  poly- 
mitarius),  which  has  probably  been  erroneously  taken 
by  transcribers  from  the  latter  part  of  the  same  verse 
(see  Kennicott’s  Biss.  on  the  Hebrew  Text , i,  78).  B.C. 
ante  1018.  See  Eliianan. 

Ja'irite  (2  Sam.  xx,  26).  See  Jair,  2. 

Ja'l'rus  (’Idfipoe,  see  Jair),  an  otherwise  unknown 
ruler  of  the  synagogue  at  Capernaum,  whose  only 
daughter  Jesus  restored  to  life  (Mark  v,  22;  Luke  viii, 
41 ; comp.  Matt,  ix,  18).  A.D.  27.  Some  have  wrong- 
ly inferred  from  our  Saviour’s  words,  “The  maid  is  not 
dead,  but  sleepeth”  (Rantenberg,  in  the  Hannov.  Bei- 
triiy.  z.  Xutz.  u.  Vergniig.  1761,  p.  88;  Olshausen,  Com- 
ment. i,  321),  that  the  girl  was  only  in  a swoon  (see  Ne- 
ander,  Leben  Jesu,  p.  347). 

JAl'RUS  (Jatipog)  also  occurs  in  the  Apocrypha 
(Esth.  xi,  2)  as  a Gneeized  form  of  the  name  of  Jair 
(q.  v.),  the  father  of  Mordeeai  (Esth.  ii,  5). 

Ja'kan  (1  Chron.  i,  42).  See  Jaakan. 

Ja'keh  (Heb.  Yakeh Tip*, pious;  Sept,  h^dpevog 
[reading  nnp ],  Vulg.  vomens  [reading  Xj^]),  a name 
given  as  that  of  the  father  of  Agur,  the  author  of  the 
apothegms  in  Prov.  xxx,  1 sq.  Interpreters  greatly 
differ  as  to  the  person  intended.  See  Agur.  The  tra- 
ditional view  is  that  which  gives  the  word  a figurative 
import  (q.  d.  obedience , sc.  to  God) ; and  it  will 

then  become  an  epithet  of  David,  the  father  of  Solomon, 
a term  appropriate  to  his  character,  and  especially  so  as 
applied  to  him  by  a son.  Others  understand  a real 
name  of  some  unknown  Israelite;  and,  in  that  case,  the 
most  probable  supposition  is  that  it  denotes  the  father 
of  the  author  of  some  popular  maxims  selected  by  “ the 
men  of  Hezekiah”  (perhaps  composed  by  them,  or  in 
their  time),  and  thus  incorporated  with  the  proverbs  of 
Solomon.  But  the  allusion  to  these  latter  compilers  in 
Prov.  xxv,  1,  appears  only  to  relate  to  an  editing  on 
their  part  of  literary  effusions  (in  part,  perhaps,  retained 
in  the  memory  by  oral  recitation)  which  are  expressly 
assigned  to  Solomon  as  their  author.  See  Proverbs. 
Prof.  Stuart  ( Comment . ad  loc.)  adopts  the  suggestion  of 


Hitzig  (in  Zeller’s  Theol.  Yahrb.  1844,  p.  283),  assented  to 
by  Bertheau  ( Kurzgef.  Exeg.  Handb.  ad  loe.),  and  renders 
the  clause  thus : “ The  words  of  Agur,  the  son  of  her 
who  was  obeyed  (reading  in  Massa and  in  an 

extended  comparison  with  the  parallel  passage  (xxi,  1), 
defends  and  illustrates  this  interpretation,  making  Ja- 
keh  to  have  been  the  son  and  successor  of.  a certain 
queen  of  Arabia  Petriea,  chiefly  on  the  ground  that  the 
phrase  Xi2J"a  will  bear  no  other 

translation  than  The  v'ords  of  Lemuel , king  of  Massa. 
But  if  the  construction  be  thus  rendered  more  facile  in 
this  passage,  it  is  more  difficult  in  the  other,  where 
X&HIH  np_,j2  cannot  be  brought  nearer  his  version 
than  The  son  of  Jakeh  of  Massa.  Even  this  rendering 
violates  in  both  passages  the  Masoretic  punctuation, 
which  is  correctly  followed  in  the  Autli.Vers. ; and  the 
interpretation  proposed,  after  all,  attributes  both  names 
(Agur  and  Lemuel)  to  the  same  person,  without  so  good 
reason  for  such  variation  as  there  woidd  be  if  they  were 
ascribed  as  epithets  to  Solomon.  See  Itiiiel. 

Ja'kim  (Heb.  Yakim ',  E“,jC‘1,  established,  the  name 
of  two  men.  See  also  Jeiioiakim. 

1.  (Sept.  ’EXtaKti/x  v.  r.  Ta/c/ju,  Vulg.  Jacim .)  The 
head  of  the  twelfth  division  of  the  saeerdotal  order  as 
arranged  by  David  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  12).  B.C.  1014. 

2.  (Sept,  ’latetip  v.  r.  laictp,  Vulg.  Jacim.)  One  of 
the  “ sons”  of  Shimhi,  a Benjamite  resident  at  Jerusa- 
lem (1  Chron.  viii,  19).  B.C.  apparently  eir.  588. 

Jakusi,  the  Japanese  divinity  of  physie.  “ His  idol 
is  placed  in  a small  temple  richly  adorned,  standing  up- 
right on  a gilt  tarate  flower,  or  faba  JEgyptiaca,  mider 
one  half  of  a large  cockle-shell  extended  over  his  head, 
which  is  encircled  with  a qrown  of  rays.  He  has  a 
sceptre  in  his  left  hand,  and  in  his  right  hand  something 
unknown.  The  idol  is  gilt  all  over.  The  Japanese,  as 
they  pass  by,  never  fail  to  pay  their  reverence  to  this 
golden  idol,  approaching  the  temple  with  a low  bow,  and 
bareheaded,  w hen  they  ring  a little  bell  hung  up  at  the 
entrance,  and  then,  holding  both  their  hands  to  their 
foreheads,  repeat  a prayer.  The  Japanese  relate  that 
this  temple  was  erected  to  Jakusi  by  a pious  but  poor 
man,  wrho,  having  discovered  an  excellent  medicinal 
powrer,  gained  so  much  money  by  it  as  to  be  able  to  give 
this  testimony  of  his  gratitude  to  the  God  of  physic.” — 
Broughton,  Biblioth.  Hist.  Sac.  i,  499. 

Jakut.  See  Siberia. 

J a'loil  (Heb.  Yalon',  *jib^,  lodger;  Sept.  T a\wv  v.  r. 
’lapj/),  the  last-named  of  the  four  sons  of  Ezra,  of  the 
tribe  of  Judah,  and  apparently  of  a family  kindred  with 
that  of  Caleb  (1  Chron.  iv,  17).  B.C.  prob.  cir.  1618. 

Jamabo.  See  Yamabo. 

Jamaica,  one  of  the  largest  islands  of  the  West  In- 
dies, ivas  discovered  by  Columbus  in  1494,  and  received 
in  1514  the  name  Isla  de  San  Jago.  In  1560  the  native 
population  had  become  nearly  extinct.  For  a time  Ja- 
maica remained  under  the  administration  of  the  de- 
scendants of  Diego,  the  son  of  Columbus ; subsequently 
it  fell  by  inheritance  to  the  house  of  Braganza;  in  1655 
it  was  occupied  by  the  English,  and  in  1670  formally 
ceded  to  England,  which  has  ever  since  retained  posses- 
sion of  it.  The  importation  of  slaves  ceased  in  1807, 
and  in  1838  the  slaves  obtained  their  entire  freedom. 
The  negro  population  increased  very  rapidly,  and,  ac- 
cording to  a census  taken  in  1861,  there  w’ere,  in  a total 
population  of 441 ,264,  only  13,81 6 whites,  mostly  English, 
against  346,374  negroes  and  81,065  mulattoes.  The  col- 
ored population  has  always  complained  of  being  oppress- 
ed and  ill-treated  by  the  former  slaveholders,  wrho  own 
nearly  the  w hole  of  the  landed  property,  and  a large 
number  of  them  have  withdrawn  from  the  towns  and 
plantations  into  the  interior  of  the  island,  w'here  they 
have  formed  a number  of  new  settlements.  In  October, 
1865,  a negro  insurrection  broke  out,  in  the  course  of 
which  several  government  buildings  were  stormed  by 


JAMBLICHUS  752  JAMBLICHUS 


the  insurgents,  and  a number  of  plantations  plundered. 
The  English  governor,  Eyre,  suppressed  the  insurrection 
with  a severity  which  caused  his  suspension  from  office, 
and  the  appointment  of  a special  commission  of  investi- 
gation. The  latter  had,  however,  no  practical  result, 
and  the  Queen's  Bench,  to  which  the  case  of  governor 
Eyre  had  been  referred  by  the  jury,  declined  to  insti- 
tute a trial. 

Before  the  abolition  of  slavery  the  planters  were  in 
general  opposed  to  the  religious  instruction  of  the  slaves. 
In  1754  the  Moravian  Brethren  commenced  a mission 
in  Jamaica,  encouraged  by  several  of  the  planters,  who 
presented  them  an  estate  called  Carmel.  Their  progress 
was  but  slow.  From  the  beginning  of  the  mission  to 
1804  the  number  of  negroes  baptized  was  938.  From 
1838,  when  complete  liberty  was  granted  to  the  negroes, 
the  Moravian  mission  prospered  greatly;  and  in  1850, 
the  number  of  souls  under  the  care  of  the  mission  at  the 
several  stations  was  estimated  at  1300.  In  1842  an  in- 
stitution for  training  native  teachers  was  established. 
In  1867  the  mission  numbered  14  churches  and  chapels, 
with  11,850  sittings,  9350  attendants  at  divine  worship, 
and  4460  members.  The  number  of  schools  was  17,  and 
of  scholars  30.  The  mission  of  English  Weslevans  was 
commenced  by  Dr.  Coke  in  1787.  It  soon  met  with  vi- 
olent opposition,  and  the  Legislative  Assembly  of  the 
island  and  the  town  council  of  Kingston  repeatedly 
passed  stringent  laws  for  cutting  off  the  slave  popula- 
tion from  the  attendance  of  the  Wesleyan  meetings,  and 
for  putting  a stop  to  the  labors  of  the  missionaries. 
From  1807  to  1815  the  missionary  work  was  accordingly 
interrupted,  and  it  was  only  due  to  the  interference  of 
the  home  government  and  the  English  governors  of  Ja- 
maica that  it  could  be  resumed.  But  every  insurrec- 
tionary movement  among  the  negroes  led  to  a new  out- 
cry against  the  missionaries,  in  particular  the  Wesleyan, 
against  whom,  at  different  times,  special  laws  were  is- 
sued. A great  change,  however,  took  place  in  public 
opinion  after  the  abolition  of  slavery,  when  the  House 
of  Assembly  of  the  island  and  the  Common  Council  of 
Kingston  made  grants  to  aid  in  the  erection  of  Wesleyan 
chapels  and  schools.  In  1846  the  number  of  Church 
members  in  connection  witli  the  Wesleyan  mission 
amounted  to  26,585;  but  from  that  time  it  began  to  de- 
crease, and  in  1853  had  declined  to  19,478.  In  1867  the 
Weslevans  had  75  churches  and  chapels,  with  34,105 
sittings,  24,210  attendants  of  public  worship,  26  minis- 
ters, 14,601  members,  5107  Sunday-scholars,  and  36  dav- 
schools,  with  2563  scholars.  The  English  Baptists  en- 
tered upon  their  mission  in  Jamaica  in  1814.  It  soon 
became  very  prosperous:  in  1839  it  numbered  21,000, 
and  in  1841,27,706  members.  .Since  then  it  has  like- 
wise declined,  and,  according  to  the  returns  of  1867,  the 
number  of  members  has  been  reduced  to  18,947.  The 
mission  has  87  churches  and  chapels,  with  51,320  sit- 
tings, 34,200  attendants  of  public  worship,  33  ministers, 
1 college,  and  14  students.  The  statistics  of  other  re- 
ligious bodies  and  societies  in  1867  were  as  follows : 


Churches  and 
Chapels. 

Attendants  of 
pub.  worship. 

Ministers. 

Members. 

Ch.  of  England.. 
London  Mission- 

87 

39,710 

33 

ary  Society. . . . 

33 

5610 

8 

2150 

United  Presbyt's 
United  Free  Ch. 

26 

7955 

IS 

4GS4 

Methodists 

G 

Roman  Catholics 
Amer.  Mission... 

8 

G 

2920 

750 

ii 

i794 

Ch.  of  Scotlaud. . 

1 

450 

Altogether,  the  number  of  persons  under  religious 
instruction  was  estimated  in  1867  at  154,000,  and  the 
churches  and  chapels  together  could  scat  174,000  per- 
sons. Formerly  the  Church  of  England  was  the  State 
church,  and  was  supported  by  the  local  Legislature,  but 
in  1868  the  state  grant  was  abolished.  The  island  is  the 
sec  of  an  Anglican  bishop  and  of  a Homan  Catholic  vicar 
apostolic.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Jamblichus,  or  Iamblichus  (Td/t/3\t xof),  a cele- 


brated Neoplatonic  philosopher  of  the  4th  century,  was 
born  at  Chalcis,  in  Ccele-Syria.  What  little  wc  know 
of  his  life  is  derived  from  the  works  of  Eunapius,  a Soph- 
ist, ivho.se  love  of  the  marvelous  renders  his  testimony 
doubtful  authority.  He  seems,  however,  to  have  studied 
under  Anatolius  and  Porphyry,  and  resided  in  Syria  un- 
til his  death,  which  occurred  during  the  reign  of  Con- 
stantine the  Great,  and  probably  before  A.D.  333  (Sni- 
das,  s.  v.  'IdpflXtxog ; Eunapius,  Iamblich.).  He  was 
deeply  versed  in  the  philosophical  system  of  Plato  and 
Pythagoras,  as  well  as  in  the  theology  and  philosophy 
of  the  Egyptians  and  Chaldreans,  and  enjoyed  great  rep- 
utation, being  by  some  of  his  contemporaries  considered 
even  the  equal  of  Plato.  In  his  life  of  Pythagoras  he 
appears  as  a Syncretist,  or  compiler  of  different  systems, 
but  without  critical  talent.  So  far  as  can  be  gathered 
from  fragments  in  his  works  in  Proclus’s  commentary 
on  the  Vimaeus,  he  went  even  further  than  his  teachers 
in  subtlety  of  arguments,  subdividing  Plotinus’s  trinity, 
and  deriving  therefrom  a series  of  triads.  “ Iamblichus 
distinguishes  first  three  purely  intelligible  triads,  then 
three  intellectual  ones,  thus  forming  the  roTjrfjv  enneati- 
cal  series,  and  the  voepav.  By  the  side  of  the  great 
triad  he  places  inferior  ones,  veot  er/ptovpyoi,  whose  mis- 
sion it  is  to  transmit  the  action  of  the  former.  He  is 
also  distinguished  from  Plotinus  and  Porphyry  by  an  al- 
most superstitious  regard  for  numerical  formulas.  All 
the  principles  of  his  theology  can  be  represented  by 
numbers : the  monad,  the  supreme  unit,  principle  of  all 
unity,  as  well  as  of  all  diversity;  two,  the  intellect,  the 
first  manifestation  or  development  of  unity;  three,  the 
soul,  or  <??7/«oupyoj,  the  principle  which  brings  all  pro- 
gressive beings  back  to  unity;  four,  the  principle  of  uni- 
versal harmony,  which  comprises  the  causes  of  all  things; 
eight,  the  source  of  motion  (yeipi/cic),  taking  all  be- 
ings away  from  the  supreme  principle  to  disperse  them 
through  the  world ; nine,  the  principle  of  all  identity 
and  of  all  perfection ; and  finally,  ten,  the  result  of  all  the 
emanations  of  the  ro  "Eu.  Neither  Plotinus  nor  Por- 
phyry, whatever  their  regard  for  Pythagoras’s  doctrines, 
ever  went  to  such  an  extent  in  reducing  their  principles 
to  numerical  abstractions”  (Vachcrot,  I/ist.  Critique  de 
VEcole  d?A  lexandrie,  vol.  ii).  Jamblichus  did  not  acqui- 
esce in  the  doctrine  of  the  earlier  Ncoplatonists,  but 
thought  that  man  could  be  brought  into  direct  commu- 
nication with  the  Deity  through  the  medium  of  thcurgic 
rites  and  ceremonies,  and  thus  attached  great  importance 
to  mysteries,  initiations,  etc.  He  wrote  a number  of 
works,  the  most  important  of  •which  are : 1.  ntpi  ITu£<r- 
yopov  aipeatiog,  intended  as  a preparation  for  the  strn'y 
of  Plato,  and  consisting  originally  of  ten  books,  five  of 
which  are  now  lost.  The  principal  extant  are  llfot  rot) 
noOayopivoo  jiiov  (published  first  by  J.  Arcerius  Theo- 
doretus,  Franeker,  1598,  4to;  best  ed.  L.  Kuster,  Amst. 
1707,  4to;  and  Th.  Kiessling,  Lpz.  1815,  2 vols.  8vo) ; 
— nporp£7rrocof  \oyoi  tig  <piKoao<t>iav  (Th.  Kiessling, 
Lpz.  1813, 8vo); — Hfpi  Kotvijg  paOgpariKiig  tTnor^pyg 
(ViUoison,Anecf7yfo  6Yree«,  ii,  188  sq. ; J.  G.  Fries,  Copen- 
hagen, 1790,  40) : — Td  SioXoyovptva  rijc  apiGpjjTiicrjg 
(Ch.Wechel,  Paris,  1543,  4to;  Tr.  Ast,  Lpz.  1817,  8vo). 
2.  The  nfo?  pvoniptwv,  in  one  book,  in  which  a priest 
named  Abammon  is  introduced  as  replying  to  a letter 
of  Porphyrius.  He  endeavors  to  vindicate  the  truth, 
purity,  and  divine  origin  of  Egyptian  and  Chaldee  the- 
ology, and  maintains  that  man,  through  thenrgic  rites, 
may  commune  with  the  Deity.  There  has  been  some 
controversy  concerning  the  authenticity  of  this  work, 
but  Tennemann  and  other  eminent  critics  think  there  are 
no  good  reasons  why  the  authorship  should  be  denied  to 
Iamblichus.  It  was  published  by  Ficinus  (Venice,  1483, 
4 to,  with  a Latin  transl.);  N.  Scutellius  (Home,  1556, 
4to),  and  Th.  Gale  (Oxf.  1678,  fol.,  with  a Latin  transl.), 
etc.  See  Eunapius,  Vita;  Sophist. ; Julian,  Or  at.  iv,  146; 
Epist.  40  ; Dodwell,  Excercit.  de  JEtate  Pythag.  1704; 
Hebenstreit,  Dissert atio  de  Jamablid  Doctrina,  Leipz. 
1 704, 4to ; Brucker,  Ilistoria  critica  Philosophic,  ii,  260, 
431;  Tillemont,  Ilist.  des  Empereurs , vi,  246;  Tenne- 


JAMBRES 


753 


JAMES 


marm,  G esch.  tier  Philosophie,  vi,  246 ; Ritter,  Gesch.der 
Philosophic , iv,  647;  Fabricius,  Bibliotheca  Grceca,  vol. 
iv,  ]>t.  iii,  p.  50 ; Tiedmann,  Geist  dec  Spekulat.  Philoso- 
phie, iii, 458 ; Jules  Simon,  f/istoire  de  l' Bcole  d' Alexan- 
dra, ii,  187-265. — Smith,  Diet,  of  Greek  and  Roman  Bi- 
ography, ii,549 ; lloefer,  Xoue.  Blog.  Generate,  xxvi,  805 
st|. ; Lardner,  IForA-s,  vol.  viii ; llutler,  I list.  A nc.  Philos. 
i,  76,  77 ; ii,  321, 329.  See  Neoplatonism. 

Jam'bres  (lapfiopg,  prob.  of  Egyptian  etymolo- 
gy), a person  mentioned  as  one  of  those  who  opposed 
Moses  (2  Tim.  iii,  8).  B.C.  1658.  See  Jaxnks. 

Jam'bri.  Shortly  after  the  death  of  Judas  Macca- 
bauis  (B.C.  161),  “the  children  of  Jambri”  arc  said  to 
have  made  a predatory  attack  on  a detachment  of  the 
Maccabrcan  forces,  and  to  have  suffered  reprisals  (1  Mace, 
ix,  36-41).  The  name  does  not  occur  elsewhere,  and  the 
variety  of  readings  is  considerable  : ’lapf3pi,  ’lap/Sptiv, 
’Apfipot,  ’Ap/3pi  ; Syr.  A mbrei.  Josephus  (.4  nt. xiii,  1, 2) 
read  ot  ’ Apapaiov  Traidtg,  and  it  seems  almost  certain 
that  the  true  reading  is  ’\ppi  (-ti),  a form  which  occurs 
elsewhere  (1  Kings  xvi,22;  Joseph. „* 1 nt.  viii,  12.5,  ’Apa- 
pinog  ; 1 Chron.  xxvii,  18,  Heb.  Yulg.  Amri;  1 

Chron.  ix,  4,  ’Apf3paip,  i.  e.  Amoritcs. 

It  has  been  conjectured  (Drusius,  Michaelis,  Grimm,  1 
Mace,  ix,  36)  that  the  original  text  was  "HY2X  “2^, 

“ the  sons  of  the  Amorites,”  and  that  the  reference  is  to 
a family  of  the  Amorites  who  had  in  early  times  occu- 
pied the  town  Medeba  (ver.  36),  on  the  borders  of  Reu- 
ben (Numb,  xxi,  30, 31). — Smith. 

James,  or  rather  Jacques  ( I aKwfiog,  the  Grceeized 
form  of  the  name  Jacob),  the  name  of  two  or  three  per- 
sons mentioned  in  the  New  Test. 

1.  James,  the  son  of  Zebedee  (AaKiofiog  b too 
7,£i3tCaiov),  and  elder  brother  of  the  evangelist  John,  by 
one  or  the  other  of  which  relationships  he  is  almost  al- 
ways designated.  Their  occupation  was  that  of  fisher- 
men, probably  at  Bethsaida,  in  partnership  with  Simon 
Peter  (Luke  v,  10).  On  comparing  the  account  given 
in  Matt,  iv,  21,  Mark  5, 19,  with  that  in  John  i,  it  would 
appear  that  James  and  John  had  been  acquainted  with 
our  Lord,  and  had  received  him  as  the  Messiah,  some  j 
time  before  he  called  them  to  attend  upon  him  statedly  I 
— a call  with  which  they  immediately  complied.  A.l>. 
27.  Their  mother’s  name  was  Salome  (Matt,  xx,  20; 
xxvii,  56;  comp,  with  Mark  xv,  40;  xvi,  1).  We  find  | 
James,  John,  and  Peter  associated  on  several  interesting  j 
occasions  in  the  Saviour’s  life.  They  alone  were  pres- 
ent at  the  transfiguration  (Matt,  xvii,  1 ; Mark  ix,  2: 
Luke  ix,  28) ; at  the  restoration  to  life  of  Jairus’s  daugh- 
ter (Mark  v,  42;  Luke  viii,  51);  and  in  the  garden  of 
Gcthscmanc  during  the  agony  (Mark  xiv,  33;  Matt, 
xxvi,  37;  Luke  xxi,  37).  With  Andrew  they  listened 
in  private  to  onr  Lord’s  discourse  on  the  fall  of  Jerusa- 
lem (Mark  xiii,  3).  James  and  his  brother  appear  to 
have  indulged  in  false  notions  of  the  kingdom  of  the 
Messiah,  and  were  led  by  ambitious  views  to  join  in  the 
request  made  to  Jesus  by  their  mother  (Matt,  xx,  20-23; 
Mark  x,  35).  From  Luke  ix,  52,  we  may  infer  that  their 
temperament  was  warm  and  impetuous.  On  account, 
probably,  of  their  boldness  and  energy  in  discharging 
their  apostleship,  they  received  from  their  lA»rd  the  ap- 
pellation of  Boanerges  (q.  v.),  or  Sons  of  Thunder  (for 
the  various  explanations  of  this  title  given  by  the  fa- 
thers, see  Suiceri  Thes.  Bedes,  s.  v.  Doner  ii,  and  Liicke’s 
Commentar,  Bonn,  1810,  Einleitung,  c.  i,  § 2,  p.  17).  See 
John.  James  was  the  first  martyr  among  the  apostles 
(Acts  xii,  1),  A.D.  44.  Clement  of  Alexandria,  in  a frag- 
ment preserved  by  Eusebius  (Hist.  Eccles.  i,  9),  reports 
that  the  officer  who  conducted  James  to  the  tribunal  was 
so  influenced  by  the  bold  declaration  of  his  faith  as  to 
embrace  the  Gospel  and  avow  himself  also  a Christian; 
in  consequence  of  which,  he  was  beheaded  at  the  same 
time.— Kitto. 

For  legends  respecting  his  death  and  his  connection 
with  Spain,  sec  the  Roman  Breviary  (in  Best.  S.  Jac.  .4 p.), 
in  which  the  healing  of  a paralvtic  and  the  conversion 
IV.— B b b 


of  Hermogenes  are  attributed  to  him,  and  where  it  is  as- 
serted that  he  preached  the  Gospel  in  Spain,  and  that 
his  remains  were  translated  to  Compostella.  See  also 
the  fourth  book  of  the  Apostolical  History  written  by 
Abdias,  the  (pseudo)  first  bishop  of  Babylon  (Abdias, 
De  historia  certuminis  Apostolici,  Paris,  1566);  Isi- 
dore, De  vita  et  obitu  SB.  utriusque  Testam.  No.  LXXIII 
(Hagonoje,  1529);  Pope  Calixtus  ll’s  four  sermons  on 
St.  James  the  Apostle  (Bibl.  Pair.  Magn.  xv,  324) ; Ma- 
riana, De  Adventn  Jacobi  A postoli  Majoris  in  Ilispuniam 
(Col.  Agripp.  1609) ; Baronins,  Martyrologium  Romanian 
ad  J ul.  25,  p.325  (Antwerp,  1 589) ; Bollandus,  .4  eta  Sanc- 
torum ad  Jul. 25,  vi,  1-124  (Antwerp,  1729) ; Estius, Comhl 
in  Act.  Ap.  c.  xii ; A mutt,  in  difficiliora  locu  S,  Script. 
(Col.  Agripp.  1622);  Tillemont,  Memoires  pour  sereir 
j a r/Iistoire  Ecclesiustique  des  six  premiers  stecles,  i,  899 
(Brussels,  1706).  As  there  is  no  shadow  of  foundation 
I for  any  of  the  legends  here  referred  to,  we  pass  them  by 
without  further  notice.  Even  Baronius  shows  himself 
ashamed  of  them;  Estius  gives  them  up  as  hopeless; 
and  Tillemont  rejects  them  with  as  much  contempt  as 
his  position  would  allow  him  to  show.  Epiphanius, 
without  giving,  or  probably  having  any  authority  for 
or  against  his  statement,  reports  that  St.  James  died  un- 
married (S.  Epiph.  Adc.  IRer.  ii,  4,  p.  491,  Paris,  1622), 
and  that,  like  his  namesake,  he  lived  the  life  of  a Naza- 
rite  (ibid,  iii,  2, 13,  p.  1045).— Smith. 

2.  James,  the  “son”  of  Alim  levs  (Idiciofiog  b too 
’ A\(j>aion ),  one  of  the  twelve  apostles  (Mark  iii,  .8 ; Matt, 
x,  3 ; Luke  vi,  15;  Acts  i,  18).  A.I).  27-29.  His  moth- 
er’s name  was  Mary  (Matt,  xxvi,  56 ; Mark  xv,  40);  in 
the  latter  passage  he  is  called  James  the  Less  (6  piupog, 
the  Little),  either  as  being  younger  than  James,  the  son 
of  Zebedee,  or  on  account  or  his  lowr  stature  (Mark  xvi, 
1;  Luke  xxiv,  10).  There  has  been  much  dispute  as 
to  whether  this  is  the  same  with  “James,  the  Lord’s 
brother”  (Gal.  i,  19);  but  the  express  title  of  Apostle 
given  to  him  in  this  last  passage,  as  well  as  in  1 Cor. 
xv,  7 (comp,  also  Acts  ix,  27),  seems  decisive  as  to  their 
| identity — no  other  James  being  mentioned  among  the 
Twelve  except  “James,  the  brother  of  John,”  who  was 
no  near  relative  of  Christ.  Another  question  is  whether 
he  was  the  same  with  the  James  mentioned  along  with 
Joses,  Simon,  and  Judas,  as  Christ’s  brethren  (Matt,  xiii, 
55;  Mark  vi,  3).  This  depends  upon  the  answer  to  two 
other  questions;  1st.  Is  the  term  “brother”  (dctXQoc) 
to  be  taken  in  the  proper  sense,  or  in  the  general  signifi- 
cation of  kinsman,  in  these  texts?  The  use  of  the  title 
in  the  last  two  passages,  as  well  as  in  John  ii,  12;  Matt, 
xii,  46-50;  Mark  iii,  31-35;  Luke  viii,  19-21 ; Actsi,  14, 
in  explicit  connection  with  his  mother,  and  in  relations 
which  imply  that  they  wore  members  of  Ins  immediate 
family,  most  naturally  requires  it  to  be  taken  in  its  lit- 
eral sense,  especially  as  no  intimation  is  elsewhere  con- 
veyed to  the  contrary.  .See  Brother.  Nor  can  the 
term  “sisters”  (rictXipai),  employed  in  the  same  connec- 
tion (Matt. xiii, 56;  Mark  vi,  8),  be  referred  to  other  than 
uterine  relatives.  This  inference  is  sustained  by  the 
striking  coincidence  in  the  names  of  the  brothers  in  the 
list  of  the  apostles  (namely,  James,  Judas,  and  apparent- 
ly Simon,  Luke  vi,  15, 16;  Acts  i.  13)  with  those  in  the 
reference  to  Christ’s  brothers  (namely,  James,  Judas,  Si- 
mon, and  Joses,  Matt,  xiii,  55 ; Mark  vi,3),and  also  by 
the  fact  that.  “James  the  Less  and  Joses”  are  said  to  be 
the  sons  of  the  same  Mary  who  was  “the  wife  of  Cleo- 
phas”  (Mark  xv,  40;  and  Alatt.  xxvii,  56;  comp,  with 
John  xix,  25).  2d.  Who  is  this  “Mary,  the  wrife  of  Cleo- 
plias?”  In  the  same  verse  (John  xix,  25)  she  is  called 
“his  [Christ’s]  mother’s  sister”  (?)  \ uijrrjp  avrov  Kai  i) 
aCiXipi)  rfjg  prjrpbg  ai<Tob,  Maoia  i)  rob  KAioica,  Kai  y) 
MaycaXijrij) ; and,  although  some  interpreters  distin- 
guish between  these  appellations,  thus  making  four  fe- 
males in  the  enumeration  instead  of  three,  yet  the  inser- 
tion of  the  distinctive  particle  Kai,  “and,”  between  each 
of  the  other  terms,  and  its  omission  between  these,  must 
be  understood  to  denote  their  identity.  It  is  manifest, 
however,  that  no  two  sisters  german  would  ever  have 


754 


JAMES 


JAMES 

the  same  name  given  to  them,  an  unprecedented  over- 
sight that  would  produce  continual  confusion  in  the  fam- 
ily ; besides,  the  law  did  not  allow  a man  to  be  married 
to  two  sisters  at  the  same  time  (Lev.  xviii,  18),  as  Jo- 
seph in  that  case  would  have  been;  nor  would  either  of 
these  objections  be  obviated  by  supposing  the  two  Marys 
to  have  been  half-sisters.  The  only  plausible  conjecture 
is  that  they  are  called  sisters  (i.  e.  sisters-in-law),  be- 
cause of  their  marriage  to  two  brothers,  Cleophas  and  Jo- 
seph; a supposition  that  is  strengthened  by  their  ap- 
parent intimacy  with  each  other,  and  their  similar  con- 
nection with  Jesus  intimated  in  John  xix,25.  Cleophas 
(or  Alphaeus)  seems  to  have  been  an  elder  brother  of 
Joseph,  and  dying  without  issue,  Joseph  married  his 
wife  (probably  before  his  marriage  with  the  Virgin,  as 
he  seems  to  have  been  much  older  than  she)  according 
to  the  Levirate  law  (l)eut.  xxv,  5) ; on  which  account 
his  oldest  son  by  that  marriage  is  styled  the  (legal)  son 
of  Cleophas,  as  well  as  (reputed  half  ) brother  of  Jesus. 
See  Alpileus;  DIauy.  This  arrangement  meets  all 
the  statements  of  Scripture  in  the  case,  and  is  confirmed 
by  the  declarations  of  early  Christian  writers.  (See  No. 
3,  below.)  The  only  objection  of  any  force  against  such 
an  adjustment  is  the  statement,  occurring  towards  the 
latter  part  of  our  Saviour’s  ministry,  that  “neither  did 
his  brethren  believe  on  him”  (John  vii,  5),  whereas  two 
of  them,  at  least,  are  in  this  way  included  among  liis  dis- 
ciples (namely,  James  and  Jude,  if  not  Simon) ; and,  al- 
though they  are  mentioned  in  Acts  i,  14  as  subsequent- 
ly yielding  to  his  claims,  yet  the  language  in  John  vii, 
7 seems  too  decisive  to  admit  the  supposition  that  those 
there  referred  to  sustained  so  prominent  a position  as 
apostles  among  his  converts.  A more  likely  mode  of 
reconciling  these  two  passages  is  to  suppose  that  there 
were  still  other  brothers  besides  those  chosen  as  apos- 
tles, not  mentioned  particularly  anywhere  (perhaps  only 
Joses  and  one  younger),  who  did  not  believe  on  him  un- 
til a very  late  period,  being  possibly  convinced  only  by 
his  resurrection.  Indeed,  if  three  of  these  brethren  were 
apostles,  t lie  language  in  Acts  i.  13, 14,  requires  such  a 
supposition;  for,  after  enumerating  the  eleven  (includ- 
ing, as  usual,  James,  Simon,  and  Jude),  that  passage 
adds,  “ and  with  his  brethren."  Whether  these  mention- 
ed brothers  (as  indeed  may  also  be  said  of  the  sisters,  and 
perhaps  of  Simon)  were  the  children  of  Mary,  Clcophas's 
widow,  or  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  is  uncertain  ; yet  in  the 
expression  “her Jirst-born  son,” applied  to  Jesus  (Luke 
ii,  7),  as  well  as  in  the  intimation  of  temporary  absti- 
nence only  in  Matt,  i,  25,  there  seems  to  be  implied  a 
reference  to  other  children  (see Virgin);  but,  be  that 
as  it  may,  there  can  be  no  good  reason  given  why  such 
shoidd  not.  have  been  the  case;  we  may  therefore  con- 
jecture that  while  James,  Simon,  Jude,  and  Joses  were 
Joseph’s  children  by  Cleophas’s  widow,  and  the  first,  three 
were  of  sufficient  age  to  be  chosen  apostles,  all  the  oth- 
ers were  by  the  Virgin  Diary,  and  among  them  only 
some  sisters  were  of  sufficient  age  and  notoriety  at 
Christ’s  second  visit  to  Nazareth  to  be  specified  by  his 
townsmen  (Matt,  xiii,  55;  Mark  vi,  3),  Joses  and  the 
children  of  the  Virgin  generally  being  the  “brethren” 
that  did  not  believe  in  Jesus  till  late  (John  vii,  5;  Acts 
i,  14).  See  Ji’ini.  To  the  objection  that  if  the  Virgin 
had  had  other  children,  especially  sons  (and  still  more, 
a half-son,  James,  older  than  any  of  them),  she  would 
not  have  gone  to  live  with  the  apostle  John,  a compara- 
tive stranger,  it  may  be  replied  that  they  may  have  been 
still  too  young  (except  James,  who  was  already  charged 
with  the  care  of  his  own  mother),  or  otherwise  not  suit- 
ably circumstanced  to  support  her;  and  if  it  had  been 
otherwise,  still  the  express  direction  of  Jesus,  her  oldest 
son,  would  have  decided  her  residence  with  “the  be- 
loved disciple,”  who  was  eminently  fitted,  as  Christ’s  fa- 
vorite, no  less  than  by  his  amiable  manners  and  com- 
parative aflluenco,  to  discharge  that  duty.  See  John. 
(See  Meth.  Quart.  Rev.  Oct.  1851,  p.  670-672.)  Sec  on 
the  No.  3.  below. 

1 here  have  been  three  principal  theories  on  the  sub- 


ject : 1.  For  the  identity  of  James,  the  Lord’s  brother, 
with  James  the  apostle,  the  son  of  Alphteus,  we  find  (see 
Routh,  Reliq.  Sacr.  i,  16,  43,  230  [Oxon.  1846])  Clement 
of  Alexandria  (Ifypotyposeis,  bk.  vii,  apml  Eusebius,  H. 
K.  i,  12 ; ii,  1)  and  Chrysostom  (in  Gal.  i,  19).  This  hy- 
pothesis, being  warmly  defended  by  St.  Jerome  (in  Hiatt. 
xii,  49)  and  supported  by  St.  Augustine  ( Contra  Faust. 
xxii,  35,  etc.),  became  the  recognised  belief  of  the  West- 
ern Church.  2.  Parallel  with  this  opinion,  there  exist- 
ed another  in  favor  of  the  hypothesis  that  James  was 
the  son  of  Joseph  by  a former  marriage,  and  therefore 
not  identical  with  the  son  of  Alphaeus.  This  is  first 
found  in  the  apocryphal  Gospel  of  Peter  (see  Origen,  in 
Matt,  xiii,  55),  in  the  Protevangelium  of  James,  and  the 
Pseudo- Apostolical  Constitution  of  the  3d  century  (Thi- 

10,  Cotl.  A poor,  i,  228 ; Const.  A post,  vi,  12).  It  is  adopt- 
ed by  Eusebius  (Comm,  in  Esui.  xvii,  6 ; II.  E.  i,  12;  ii, 
1).  Perhaps  it  is  Origen’s  opinion  (see  Comm,  in  J oh. 

11,  12).  St.  Epiphanius,  St.  Hilary,  and  St.  Ambrose  we 
have  already  mentioned  as  being  on  the  same  side.  So 
are  Victorinus  (Viet.  Phil,  in  Gal.  apud  Maii  Script,  vet. 
nor.  coll.  [Roma*.  1828])  and  Gregory  Nvssen  (Opp.  ii, 
844, D.  [Paris  cd.  1618)],  and  it  became  the  recognised 
belief  of  the  Greek  Church.  3.  The  Helvidian  hypothe- 
sis, put  forward  at  first  by  Bonosus,  Hclvklius,  and  Jo- 
vinian,  and  revived  by  Herder  and  Strauss  in  Germany, 
is  that  James,  Joses,  Jude,  Simon,  and  the  sisters  were 
all  children  of  Joseph  and  Diary,  while  James  the  apos- 
tle and  James  the  son  of  Alphams  (whether  one  or  two 
persons)  were,  different  from,  and  not  akin  with  these 
“ brothers  and  sisters”  of  our  Lord.  English  theologi- 
cal writers  have  been  divided  between  the  first  and  sec- 
ond of  these  views,  with,  however,  a preference  on  the 
whole  fbr  the  first  hypothesis.  See,  e.  g.  Lardner.  vi. 
495  (London,  1788) ; Pearson,  Minor  1 1 'arks,  i,  350  (Oxf. 
1844),  and  On  the  Creed,  i,  308;  ii,  224  (Oxford,  1833); 
Thorndike,  i,  5 (Oxf.  1844) ; Home’s  Jntrod.  to  II.  S.  iv, 
427  (Lond.  1834),  etc.  On  the  same  side  are  Light  foot, 
Witsius,  Lampe,  Baumgarten,  Semler,  Gabler,  Eichhorn, 
Hug,  Rcrtholdt,  Guericke,  Sell necken burger,  Meier,  Stei- 
ger, Gieseler,  Thcile.  Lange,  Taylor  (Op.  v,  20  [ London, 
1849]),  Wilson  (Op.  vi,673  [Oxf*  1859]),  and  Cave  (Life 
of  St.  James)  maintain  the  second  hypothesis  with  Vos- 
sius,  Basnage,  Valesius,  etc.  The  third  is  held  by  Dr. 
Davidson  (Introd.  Xew  Test.  vol.  iii)  and  by  Dean  Alford 
(Greek  Test,  iv,  87).  Our  own  position,  it  will  be  per- 
ceived, combines  parts  of  each  of  these  views,  maintain- 
ing with  (l)  the  identity  of  the  two  Jameses,  with  (2) 
the  Levirate  marriage  of  Joseph  and  the  widow  of  Al- 
phseus,  and  with  (3)  that  these  were  all  the  children  of 
Joseph  and  in  part  of  Mary.  See  James,  Epistle  of 
(below). 

3.  James,  the  brother  oe  the  Lord  (6  adtXtyoQ 
tov  Ki’piov  [Gal.  i,  19]).  Whether  this  James  is  iden- 
tical with  the  son  of  Alphseus  is  a question  which  Dr, 
Neandcr  pronounces  to  be  the  most  difficult  in  the  apos- 
tolic history;  it  may  be  well,  therefore,  to  consider  more 
particularly  under  this  head  the  arguments  that  have 
been  urged  in  support  of  the  negative.  We  read  in 
Matt,  xiii,  55,  “ Is  not  his  mother  called  Diary,  and  his 
brethren  James,  and  Joses,  and  Simon,  and  Judas?” and 
in  Mark  vi,  3,“  Is  not  this  the  carpenter,  the  son  of  Diary, 
and  brother  of  James  and  Joses,  and  of  Jiula  and  Simon? 
and  are  not  his  sisters  here  with  us?”  Those  critics 
who  suppose  the  terms  of  affinity  in  these  and  parallel 
passages  to  be  used  in  the  laxcr  sense  of  near  relations, 
have  remarked  that  in  DIark  xv,  40  mention  is  made  of 
“ Diary,  the  mother  of  Janies  the  Less  and  of  Joses;”  and 
that  in  Johp  xix,  25  it  is  said  “there  stood  by  the  cross 
of  Jesus  his  mother  and  his  mother’s  sister,  Diary,  the 
wife  of  Cleophas,  and  Diary  Dlagdalene;”  they  then  fore 
infer  that  the  wife  of  Cleophas  is  the  same  as  the  sister 
of  the  mother  of  Jesus,  and  consequently  that  James 
(supposing  Cleophas  and  Alpluens  to  be  the  same  name, 
the  former  according  to  the  Hebrew,  the  latter  accord- 
ing to  the  Greek  orthography)  was  a first  cousin  of  our 
Lord,  and  on  that  account  termed  his  brother,  and  that 


JAMES 


755 


JAMES 


the  other  individuals  called  the  brethren  of  Jesus  stood 
in  the  same  relation.  It  is  also  urged  that  in  the  Acts, 
after  the  death  of  James,  the  son  of  Zebedee,  we  read 
only  of  one  James  ; and,  moreover,  that  it  is  improbable 
that  our  Lord  would  have  committed  his  mother  to  the 
care  of  the  beloved  disciple  had  there  been  sons  of  Jo- 
seph living,  whether  the  offspring  of  Mary  or  of  a for- 
mer marriage.  Against  this  view  it  has  been  alleged 
that  in  several  early  Christian  writers,  James,  the  broth- 
er of  the  Lord,  is  distinguished  from  the  son  of  Alphams, 
that  the  identity  of  the  names  Alpliseus  and  Cleophas  is 
somewhat  uncertain,  and  that  it  is  doubtful  whether  the 
words  “his  mother’s  sister,”  in  John  xix,  25,  are  to  be 
considered  in  apposition  with  those  immediately  follow- 
ing— “Mary,  the  wife  of  Cleophas,”  or  intended  to  desig- 
nate a different  individual,  since  it  is  highly  improba- 
ble that  two  sisters  should  have  had  the  same  name. 
Wieseler  ( Studien  und  Kritiken,  1840.  iii,  648)  maintains 
that  not  three,  but  four  persons  are  mentioned  in  this 
passage;  and  that,  since  in  Matt,  xxvii,  56,  and  Mark 
xv,  40,  besides  Mary  of  Magdala,  and  Mary,  the  mother 
of  James  and  Joses,  Salome  also  (or  the  mother  of  the 
sons  of  Zebedee)  is  named  as  present  at  the  Crucifixion, 
it  follows  that  she  must  have  been  the  sister  of  our 
Lord’s  mother.  But,  even  allowing  that  the  sons  of  Al- 
pliseus  were  related  to  our  Lord,  the  narrative  in  the 
Evangelists  and  the  Acts  presents  some  reasons  for  sus- 
pecting that  they  were  not  the  persons  described  as  “the 
brethren  of  Jesus.”  (1.)  The  brethren  of  Jesus  are  asso- 
ciated with  his  mother  in  a manner  that  strongly  indi- 
cates their  standing  in  the  filial  relation  to  her  (Matt. 
xii,46;  Mark  iii, 31;  Luke  viii,  19 ; Matt. xiii, 56, where 
“ sisters”  are  also  mentioned) ; they  appear  constantly 
together  as  forming  one  family  (John  ii,  12):  “After 
this  he  went  down  to  Capernaum,  he,  and  his  mother, 
and  his  brethren,  and  his  disciples”  (Kuinoel,  Comment, 
in  Mutt,  xii,  46).  (2.)  It  is  explicitly  stated  that  at  a 

period  posterior  to  the  appointment  of  the  twelve  apos- 
tles, among  whom  we  find  “ the  son  of  Alphams,”  “ nei- 
their  did  his  brethren  believe  in  him”  (John  vii,  5 ; 
Lucke’s  Comment.).  Attempts,  indeed,  have  been  made 
by  Grotius  and  Lardner  to  dilute  the  force  of  this  lan- 
guage, as  if  it  meant  merely  that  their  faith  was  imper- 
fect or  wavering — “ that  they  did  not  believe  as  they 
should;”  but  the  language  of  Jesus  is  decisive:  “My 
time  is  not  yet  come,  but  your  time  is  always  ready; 
the  world  cannot  hate  you,  but  me  it  hateth”  (compare 
this  with  John  xv,  18, 19 : “ If  the  world  hate  you,”  etc.). 
As  to  the  supposition  that  what  is  affirmed  in  John’s 
Gospel  might  apply  to  only  some  of  his  brethren,  it  is 
evident  that,  admitting  the  identity,  only  one  brother  of 
Jesus  would  be  left  out  of  the  “ company  of  the  apos- 
tles.” (3.)  Luke’s  language  in  Acts  i,  13, 14,  is  opposed 
to  the  identity  in  question ; for,  after  enumerating  the 
apostles,  among  whom,  as  usual,  is  “ James,  the  son  of 
Alphams,"  he  adds,  “ they  all  continued  with  one  accord 
in  prayer  and  supplication  with  the  women,  and  Mary, 
the  mother  of  Jesus,  and  with  Ins  brethren."  From  this 
passage,  however,  we  learn  that  by  this  time  his  breth- 
ren had  received  him  as  the  Messiah.  That  after  the 
death  of  the  son  of  Zebedee  we  find  only  one  James 
mentioned,  may  easily  be  accounted  for  on  the  ground 
that  probably  only  one,  “the  brother  of  the  Lord,"  re- 
mained at  Jerusalem  ; and,  under  such  circumstances, 
the  silence  of  the  historian  respecting  the  son  of  Alpha> 
us  is  not  more  strange  than  respecting  several  of  the 
other  apostles,  whose  names  never  occur  after  the  cata- 
logue in  i,  13.  Paul’s  language  in  Gal.  i,  19  has  been 
adduced  to  prove  the  identity  of  the  Lord's  brother  with 
the  son  of  Alphams  by  its  ranking  him  among  the  apos- 
tles, but  others  contend  that  it  is  bv  no  means  decisive 
(Winer,  Grammatik,  4th  edit.,  p.  517 ; Neander,  History 
of  the  Planting , etc.,  ii,  5 [ Engl,  translation]).  Dr.  Nie- 
meyer  ( Charakteristik  der  Bibel,  i,  399  [Halle,  1830]) 
enumerates  not  less  than  five  persons  of  this  name,  by 
distinguishing  the  son  of  Alphams  from  James  the  Less, 
and  assuming  that  the  James  last  mentioned  in  Acts  i, 


13  was  not  the  brother,  but  the  father  of  Judas,  ^midst 
this  great  disagreement  of  views  (seein  Winer’s  Reahcor. 
s.  v.  Jacobus ; Davidson’s  Introd.  to  the  X.  T.  iii,  302  sq. ; 
Horne’s  Introduction,  new  ed.  iv,  591,  n. ; Princeton  Re- 
view, Jan.  1865),  the  most  probable  solution  of  the  main 
question  is  that  given  above  (No.  2),  identifying  James, 
the  son  of  Alphams  or  Cleophas  with  one  of  the  apostles, 
the  literal  brother  of  our  Lord,  and  the  sou  of  Mary,  the 
sister-in-law  of  the  Virgin  by  virtue  of  the  marriage  of 
both  with  Joseph  (but  see  Alford,  l’rolegg.  to  vol.  iv,  pt. 
I of  his  Comment,  p.  88  sq.).  This  Levirate  explanation 
is  summarily  dismissed  by  Andrews  {Life  of  our  Lord, 
p.  108)  and  Moinbert  (in  the  Am.  edit,  of  Lange’s  Com- 
mentary, introd.  to  epist.  of  James,  p.  19)  as  “ needing  no 
refutation  but,  although  conjectural,  it  is  the  only  one 
that  makes  it  possible  for  James  to  have  been  at  once 
(Christ's  brother  and  yet  the  son  of  A Iphceus.  If  he  was 
likewise  the  same  with  the  son  of  Mary,  the  u-ife  of  Cleo- 
phas, the  theory  may  be  said  to  be  demonstrated.  ( )th- 
er  treatises  on  the  subject  are  Dr.  Alill’s  Accounts  of  our 
Lord's  Brethren  Vindicated  (Cambridge,  1843) : Sehalf, 
Das  Verb  lilt niss  des  Jacobus,  Bruders  des  Htrrn,  und  Ja- 
cobus Alphdi  (Berlin,  1842) ; Gablor,  l)e  Jacobo , epistolie 
eidem  a script  a1  auctori  (Altorf,  1787).  For  other  mono- 
graphs, see  Volbeding,  Iiulex  Proyrammatum,  p.  31. 

If  we  examine  the  early  Christian  writers,  we  shall 
meet  with  a variety  of  opinions  on  this  subject.  Euse- 
bius ( Hist . Eccles.  ii,  1)  says  that  James,  the  first  bishop 
of  Jerusalem,  brother  of  the  Lord,  son  of  Joseph,  the  hus- 
band of  Mary,  was  surnamed  the  Just  by  the  ancients 
! on  account  of  his  eminent  virtue.  He  uses  similar  lan- 
I guage  in  his  Evangelical  Demonstration  (iii,  5).  In  his 
i commentary  on  Isaiah  he  reckons  fourteen  apostles,  viz. 
the  twelve,  Paul,  and  James,  the  brother  of  our  Lord.  A 
I similar  enumeration  is  made  in  the  “ Apostolic  Constitu- 
tions" (vi,  14).  Epiphanius,  Chrysostom,  and  Theophv- 
i lact  speak  of  James,  the  Lord’s  brother,  as  being  the  same 
j as  the  son  of  Cleophas.  They  suppose  that  Joseph  and 
i Cleophas  were  brothers, and  that  the  latter  dying  without 
| issue,  Joseph  married  his  widow  for  his  first  wife,  accord- 
1 ing  to  the  Jewish  custom,  and  that  James  and  his  breth- 
I ren  were  the  offspring  of  this  marriage  (Lardner’.*?  Cred- 
I ibility, , ii,  118;  H'or^s,  iv,  548;  i,  163;  v,  160;  llist.  of 
Heretic!),  eh.  xi,  §11 ; Works,  viii,  527  ; Supplement  to  the 
Credibility,  eh.  xvii , IForA's,  vi,  188).  A passage  from 
Josephus  is  quoted  by  Eusebius  {Hist.  Eccles.  ii,  23),  in 
which  James,  the  brother  of  “ him  who  is  called  Christ," 
is  mentioned  (.4  nt.  xx,  9, 1);  but  in  the  opinion  of  Dr. 
Lardner  and  other  eminent  critics,  this  clause  is  an  in- 
i terpolation  (Lardner’s  Jewish  Testimonies,  ch.iv ; 1 1 ”orks, 
l vi,  496).  That  James  was  formally  appointed  bishop  of 
Jerusalem  by  the  Lord  himself,  as  reported  by  Epipha- 
^ niiis  (H ceres,  lxxviii),  Chrysostom  {Horn,  xi  in  1 Cor. 
vii),  Proclus  of  Constantinople  (De  Trad.  Dir.  Liturg.), 
and  Photius  ( Ep.  157),  is  not  likely.  Eusebius  follows 
this  account  in  a passage  of  his  history,  but  says  else- 
where that  he  was  appointed  by  the  apostles  ( II.Eccl . 
ii,  23).  Clement  of  Alexandria  is  the  first  author  who 
speaks  of  his  episcopate  {//ypotyposeis,bk.  v i,  apud  Eu- 
sebius, Hist.  Ecc.  ii,  1),  and  he  alludes  to  it  as  a thing  of 
which  the  ehief  apostles,  Peter,  James,  and  John,  might 
well  have  been  ambitious.  The  same  Clement  reports 
that  the  Lord,  after  his  resurrection,  delivered  the  gift 
of  knowledge  to  James  the  Just,  to  John,  and  Peter,  who 
delivered  it  to  the  rest  of  the  apostles,  and  they  to  the 
seventy.  These  views  of  the  leadership  of  James  in 
the  college  of  the  apostles  agree  with  the  account  in 
Acts  (ix,  27 ; xii,  17 ; xv,  13, 19).  According  to  Ilege- 
sippus  (a  converted  Jew  of  the  2d  century)  James,  the 
brother  of  the  Lord,  undertook  the  government  of  the 
Church  along  with  the  apostles  {gtra  tuv  dirooToXu)!’). 
He  describes  him  as  leading  a life  of  ascetic  strictness, 
and  as  held  in  the  highest  veneration  by  the  Jews  (ap. 
Euseb.  Hist.  Eccles.  ii,  23).  But  in  the  account  he  gives 
of  his  martyrdom  some  circumstances  are  highly  im- 
probable (see  Kouth,  Reliqnice  Sacrce,  i,  228),  although 
the  event  itself  is  quite  credible  (A.D.  62).  In  the  apoc- 


756 


JAMES 


TAMES 


rvphal  Gospel  according  to  the  Hebrews,  he  is  said  to 
have  been  precipitated  from  a pinnacle  of  the  Temple, 
then  assaulted  with  stones,  and  at  last  dispatched  by  a 
blow  on  the  head  with  a fuller’s  pole  (Lardner’s  Supple- 
ment, eh.  xvi,  JForib,  vi,  174;  Neander,  Planting,  etc.,  ii, 
9,  22).  Epiplianins  gives  the  same  account  that  Hege- 
sippus  does,  in  somewhat  different  words,  having  evi- 
dently copied  it  for  the  most  part  from  him.  He  adds 
a few  particulars  which  are  probably  mere  assertions  or 
conclusions  of  his  own  (Uteres,  xxix,  4;  lxxviii,  13). 
lie  calculates  that  James  must  have  been  ninety-six 
vears  old  at  the  time  of  his  death,  and  adds  (on  the  au- 
thority, as  he  says,  of  Eusebius,  Clement,  and  others) 
that  he  wore  the  ttstciXov  on  his  forehead,  in  which  he 
probably  confounds  him  with  St.  John  (Polycr.  apud 
Eusebius,  Jlistor.  Eccles.  v,  24.  But  see  Cotta,  De  him. 
pont.  A pp.  Joan.  Jac.  et  Marci  [Tiib.  1755]).  Gregory 
of  Tours  reports  that  he  was  buried,  not  where  he  fell, 
but  on  the  Mount  of  Olives,  in  a tomb  in  which  he  had 
already  buried  Zacharias  and  Simon  (De  ylor.  mart,  i, 
27).  The  monument — part  excavation,  part  edifice — 
which  is  now  commonly  known  as  the  “Tomb  of  St. 
James,”  is  on  the  east  side  of  the  so-called  Valiev  of  Je- 
hoshaphat.  The  tradition  about  the  monument  in  ques- 
tion is  that  St.  James  took  refuge  there  after  the  capture 
of  Christ,  and  remained,  eating  and  drinking  nothing, 
until  our  Lord  appeared  to  him  on  the  day  of  his  resur- 
rection (sec  Quaresmins,  etc.,  quoted  in  To  bier,  Siloah, 
etc.,  p.  299).  The  legend  of  his  death  there  seems  to  be 
first  mentioned  by  Maundeville  (A.D.  1320:  see  Early 
Trav.  p.  170).  By  the  old  travellers  it  is  often  called 
the  “ Church  of  SL  James.”  Eusebius  tells  us  that  his 
chair  was  preserved  down  to  his  time  (on  which  see 
Heinichen’s  Excursus  [ Etc.  xi,  ad  Euseb.  Hist.  Eccles. 
vii,  19,  vol.  iv,  p.  957,  ed.  Burton]).  We  must  add  a 
strange  Talmudic  legend  which  appears  to  relate  to 
James.  It  is  found  in  the  Midrash  Koheleih,  or  Com- 
mentary on  Ecclesiastes,  and  also  in  the  Tract  A budah 
Zarali  of  the  Jerusalem  Talmud.  It  is  as  follows:  “II. 
Eliezer,  the  son  of  Dama,  was  bitten  by  a serpent,  and 
there  came  to  him  Jacob,  a man  of  Caphar  Seeama,  to 
heal  him  by  the  name  of  Jesn,  the  son  of  Pandera;  but 
E.  Ismael  suffered  him  not,  saying,  ‘ That  is  not  allowed 
thee,  son  of  Dama.’  He  answered,  ‘ Suffer  me,  and  I 
will  produce  an  authority  against  thee  that  is  lawful,’ 
but  he  could  not  produce  the  authority  before  he  ex- 
pired. And  what  was  the  authority?  This:  ‘Which 
if  a man  do,  he  shall  live  in  them’  (Lev.  xviii,  5).  But 
it  is  not  said  that  he  shall  die  in  them.”  The  son  of 
Pandera  is  the  name  that  the  Jews  have  always  given 
to  our  Lord  when  representing  him  as  a magician.  The 
same  name  is  given  in  Epiphanius  (Hares,  lxxviii)  to 
the  grandfather  of  Joseph,  and  by  John  Damascene  (De 
Fide  Orth,  iv,  15)  to  the  grandfather  of  Joachim,  the 
supposed  father  of  the  Virgin  Mary.  For  the  identifi- 
cation of  James  of  Seeama  (a  place  in  Upper  Galilee) 
with  James  the  Just,  see  Mill  ( Historic . Criticism  of  the 
Gospel,  p.  3 IK,  Camb.  1840).  — Kitto;  Smith.  For  the 
apocryphal  works  attributed  to  James,  see  James,  Spu- 
mous WlilTlXOS  OK. 

JAMES,  EPISTLE  OF;  said,  according  to  Eusebius 
(Hist.  Eccles.  ii,  23),  to  be  the  first  of  the  so-called  Cath- 
olic epistles  (koSoXikoi),  as  being  addressed  to  classes 
ol  Christians  rather  than  to  individuals  or  particular 
communities.  See  Epistles,  Catholic. 

I.  Authorship. — As  the  writer  simply  styles  himself 
tl  James,  a servant  o f (l<nl  and  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ ,” 
the  question  as  to  whom  this  may  designate  has  been  a 
subject  of  keen  and  prolonged  controversy,  since,  as  Eu- 
sebius has  again  remarked,  there  were  several  of  this 
name.  James  the  Great,  or  the  son  of  Zebodee,  was 
put  to  death  under  Herod  Agrippa  about  the  year  44. 
and,  therefore,  the  authorship  cannot  with  any  proprie- 
ty be  ascribed  to  him,  though  a Syriac  MS.,  published 
by  V idmandstadt,  and  an  old  Latin  version,  published 
bv  Martianay  and  Sabatier,  make  the  assertion.  The 
authorship  has  been  assigned  by  not  a few  to  James 


the  Less,  b pucpog,  the  son  of  Alphaeus  or  Cleophas,  and 
by  others  to  James,  the  Lord’s  brother.  Many,  how- 
ever, maintain  that  the  two  names  were  borne  by  the 
same  individual,  James  being  called  the  Lord’s  brother 
either  as  being  a cousin  or  adoptive  brother  of  Jesus 
(Lange,  art.  Jacobus  in  Herzog’s  Encyklopadie),  or  as  a 
son  of  Joseph  by  a Levirate  connection  with  the  widow 
ol'  Cleophas — the  opinion  of  Epiphanius  and  Theophy- 
lact;  or  as  a son  of  Joseph  by  a former  marriage — tiie 
view  of  St.  Chrysostom,  11  ilary,  Cave,  and  Basnage.  On 
the  other  hand,  it  is  held  by  some  that  James,  son  of 
Alphaeus,  and  James,  brother  of  our  Lord,  were  distinct 
persons,  the  latter  being  a uterine  brother  of  Jesus,  and 
standing,  according  to  the  representation  of  the.  Gospels, 
in  the  same  relation  with  him  to  their  common  mother 
Mary — as  in  Matt,  xii,  47 ; xiii,  55;  Mark  vi,  3;  John 
ii,  12;  Acts  i,  14.  On  the  whole,  we  are  inclined  to  the 
former  hypothesis,  but  we  cannot  enter  into  the  ques- 
tion, referring  the  reader  to  the  previous  article,  and  to 
that  on  Buotiieks  of  our  Lord.  There  are  also  three 
excellent  monographs  on  the  subject : Blom,  Thiol.  Dis- 
sert. ife  rcig  dceX^oTc  Kvpiov  (Lngd.  Bat.  1839);  S chaff, 
Das  ]'erhaltniss  dcs  Jacobus  Hruders  des  llerrn  (Berlin, 
1842);  Wijbelingh,  Qms  est  epistolee  Jacobi  /Script or  ? 
(Groningen,  1854).  For  the  other  side,  see  Mill  on  the 
Mythical  Interpretation  of  the  Gospels,  p.  219,  ed.  sec., 
18GF.  Dr.  Mill  held  the  perpetual  virginity  of  Mary, 
or  that  she  was,  in  ecclesiastical  language,  (’unrapQevog, 
and  thus  virtually  forecloses  the  entire  investigation. 
It  serves  little  purpose  to  sneer  at  those  who  hold  the 
opposite  theory  as  having  their  prototypes  in  the  Anti- 
dicomarianites  or  Helvidians  of  the  4th  century. 

According  to  our  view,  the  author  of  this  epistle  was 
the  Lord’s  brother,  and  an  apostle,  or  one  of  the  twelve. 
In  Gal.  ii,  9,  Paid  classes  him  with  Peter  and  John,  all 
three  being  pillars  (ittvXoi).  He  is  said  by  Hcgcsippus 
(Eusebius,  Hist,  ii,  23)  to  have  received  the  government 
of  the  Church,  ptra  t ilv  aironTo'hu>v,  not  post  aposlu- 
los,  as  Jerome  wrongly  renders  it,  but  along  with  the 
apostles — as  the  natural  rendering  is — or  was  received 
by  them  into  a collegiate  relation.  In  the  pseudo-Clem- 
entines, and  in  the  Apostolical  Constitutions,  however, 
he  is  traditionally  separated  from  the  apostles.  It  is 
cpiite  groundless  on  the  part  of  Wieseler  (Studien  vnd 
Kritiken,  1842),  Stier,  and  Davidson  to  argue  that  the 
James  mentioned  in  the  first  chapter  of  Galatians  is  a 
different  person  from  the  James  referred  to  in  the  sec- 
ond chapter.  Again,  we  have  Paul  distinctly  acknowl- 
edging the  high  position  of  the  brethren  of  the  Lord 
when  he  ranges  them  between  “other  apostles”  and 
“ Cephas”  in  1 Cor.  ix.  5.  By  universal  consent  James 
was  called  6 etKaiog,  and,  being  martyred,  was  succeed- 
ed by  a cousin,  Symeon.  second  of  the  cousins  of  the 
Lord,  and  a son  of  Alphams  (urra  ai'iipiov  to v Ki’piou 
dei'Ttpov).  Thus  James  was  the  superintendent  of  the 
Church  at  Jerusalem,  and,  probably  on  account  of  con- 
tinuous residence,  possessed  of  higher  influence  there 
than  Peter,  the  apostle  of  the  circumcision,  who  could 
only  be  an  occasional  visitor.  “Certain  from  James” 
(rtvig  e’nro  ’ latcwfiov ) went  down  to  Antioch,  before 
whom  Peter  prevaricated,  as  if  he  had  stood  in  awe  of 
the  stricter  Judaic  principles  of  James  and  his  party 
(Acts  xv ; Gal.  ii).  It  seems,  therefore,  very  natural 
that  one  occupying  this  position  in  the  theocratic  me- 
tropolis should  write  to  his  believing  brethren  cf  the 
Dispersion.  He  sympathized  so  strongly  with  the  myr- 
iads of  the  Jew's  who  believed  and  yet  were  zealous  of 
the  law — utjXtoTai  too  vopov — that  for  their  sakes,  and 
to  ward  off  their  hostility,  he  advised  the  apostle  Paul 
to  submit  to  an  act  of  conformity.  This  conservative 
spirit,  this  zeal  for  the  law'  at  least  as  the  moral  rule  of 
life,  and  this  profession  of  Christianity  along  with  uni- 
form obedience  to  the  “customs,”  seem  to  us  character- 
istic elements  of  the  epistle  before  us. 

The  opinion  that  the  author  of  this  epistle  wras  differ- 
ent from  James,  the  son  of  Alphaeus,  anil  not  an  apostle, 
is  held  by  Clement,  Herder,  De  XVette,  Neander,  Kern, 


JAMES 


757 


JAMES 


SchafF,  Winer,  Stier,  Rothe,  and  Alford.  Davidson, 
while  holding  the  opinion  that  the  Lord’s  brother  and 
James  the  apostle  are  different  persons,  ascribes  the 
epistle  to  the  latter.  But  the  theory  seems  to  violate 
all  the  probabilities  that  may  be  gathered  from  the  early 
fathers  and  historians.  That  James,  the  Lord’s  brother, 
is  James  the  apostle,  is  an  opinion  maintained  by  Baro- 
nins, Lardner,  Pearson,  Gabler,  Eichhorn,  llug,  Guericke, 
Meier,  Gieseler,  Thcile,  and  the  most  of  other  writers. 

II.  Canonical  Authority. — The  epistle  is  found  in  the 
Syriac  Peshito  in  the  2d  century,  a version  which  cir- 
culated in  the  neighborhood  of  that  country  to  which 
James  and  his  readers  belonged,  and  the  translator  and 
his  coadjutors  must  have  had  special  historical  reasons 
for  inserting  James  in  their  canon,  as  they  exclude  the 
Second  and  Third  Epistles  of  John,  the  Epistle  of  Jude, 
anil  the  Apocalypse.  There  are  clauses  in  Clement  of 
Rome  (.1  tl  Cor.  xxxii)  and  in  llermas  (Mandat.  xii,  15) 
which  probably  may  refer  to  correspondent  portions  of 
this  epistle,  though,  perhaps,  they  may  only  allude  di- 
rectly to  the  Septuagint.  The  quotation  from  the  Latin 
version  of  Ireiueus  (.1  deer.*.  If  teres,  iv,  1(3)  appears  to  be 
more  direct  in  the  phrase  “et  amicus  Dei  vocatus  est." 
But  this  phrase,  found  also  in  Clement,  seems  to  have 
been  a current  one,  and  Philo  calls  Abraham  by  the 
same  appellation.  We  cannot,  therefore,  lay  such  im- 
incdiate  stress  on  these  passages  as  is  done  by  Kern, 
Wiesinger,  and  others,  though  there  is  a presumption 
in  favor  of  the  opinion  that  passages  in  the  apostolical 
fathers,  bearing  any  likeness  of  style  or  thought  to  the 
apostolical  writings,  were  borrowed  from  them,  as  either 
direct  imitations  or  unconscious  reproductions.  This 
epistle  is  quoted  by  Origen  (In  Joan.,  in  Opera,  iv,  30G) ; 
and  the  Latin  version  of  Rutinus  uses  the  phrase  Jaco-  j 
bus  apostolus  as  a preface  to  a quotation.  This  father  | 
quotes  the  epistle  also  as  ascribed  to  James — iv  ti)  <pt- 
pop'tvy  Tokio^ou  t7noro\y ; though,  as  Kern  remarks, 
Origen  says  that  the  doctrine  “faith  without  works  is  j 
dead”  is  not  received  by  all — ov  trvyxtopijdlv.  Clement  j 
of  Alexandria  does  not  quote  it,  but  Eusebius  says  that 
he  expounded  all  the  catholic  epistles,  including,  how- 
ever, in  the  range  of  his  comments  the  Epistle  of  Bar- 
nabas and  the  so-called  Apocalypse  of  Peter.  Tertullian 
seems  to  make  no  reference  to  it,  though  Credner  sup- 
poses an  allusion  to  ii,  23  in  the  second  book  Adcersus 
Judteos  (Opera,  ed.  Oehler,  ii,  701).  Eusebius  places  it 
among  the  Antilegomena  (llistor.  Eccles.  ii,  23;  iii,  25), 
saying  of  the  epistle,  under  the  tirst  reference,  after  he 
had  just  spoken  of  its  author’s  death,  iarkov  tog  vo- 
Oevtrai  piv,  etc.,  “It  is  reckoned  spurious — not  many 
of  the  ancients  have  mentioned  it;’’  subjoining,  how- 
ever, that  it  and  Jude  were  used  in  most  of  the  church- 
es. In  other  places  Eusebius  quotes  James  without 
hesitation,  calling  the  epistle  by  the  sacred  title  of 
ypatpi],  and  its  author  o itpbc  diroaroXog.  Jerome  is 
very  explicit,  saying  that  James  wrote  one  epistle, 
which  some  asserted  had  been  published  by  another  in 
his  name,  but  that  by  degrees  and  in  process  of  time 
(“  paullatim  tempore  procedente”)  it  obtained  authority. 
Jerome's  assertion  may  arise  from  the  fact  that  there 
were  several  persons  named  James,  and  that  confusion 
on  this  point  was  one  means  of  throwing  doubt  on  the 
epistle.  There  seems  to  be  also  an  allusion  in  Hippoly- 
tus  (ed.  Lagarile,  p.  122)  to  ii,  13,  in  the  words  i)  yda 
Kpicng  avi\tiog  lari  rip  pt)  ‘ironjaavri  iXtog.  It  was  at 
length  received  by  the  Council  of  Carthage  in  397,  and 
in  that  century  it  seems  to  have  been  all  but  universally 
acknowledged,  both  by  the  Eastern  and  Western  church- 
es— Theodore  of  Mopsuestia  being  a marked  exception, 
because  of  the  allusion  in  it  (v,  11)  to  the  book  of  Job. 
At  the  period  of  the  Reformation  its  genuineness  was 
again  ealled  in  question.  Luther,  in  his  preface  to  the 
N.  T.  in  1522,  comparing  it  “with  the  best  books  of  the 
X.  T.,”  stigmatized  it  as  “ a right  strawy  epistle  (eine 
recht  stroherne  Epistel),  being  destitute  of  an  evangelic 
character.”  Cyril  Lucar  had  a similar  objection,  that 
Christ’s  name  was  coldly  mentioned,  and  that  only  once 


or  twice,  and  that  it  treated  merely  of  morality — (“sola 
a la  moralita  attende” — Lett  res  Anecdotes,  p.  85,  Amster- 
dam, 1718).  Erasmus  had  doubts  about  it,  and  so  had 
cardinal  Cajetan,  Flacius,  and  the  Magdeburg  centuria- 
tors.  Grotius  and  Wetstein  shared  in  these  doubts,  and 
they  are  followed  by  Sclileiermacher)  Schott,  De  Wette, 
Rcuss,  the  Ttibingen  critics  Banr  and  Sclnvegler,  and 
Ritschl  in  his  Entstehuny  der  A It-kathol.  Kirche,  p.  150. 
These  recent  critics  deny  its  apostolic  source,  and  some 
of  them  place  it  in  the  2d  century,  from  its  resemblance 
in  some  parts  to  the  Clementine  homilies.  But  it  is 
plain  that  the  objections  of  almost  all  these  opponents 
spring  mainly  from  doctrinal  and  not  from  critical  views, 
being  rather  originated  and  sustained  by  the  notion  form- 
ed of  the  contents  of  the  epistle  than  resting  on  any  prop- 
er historical  foundation.  We  have  not  space  to  go  over 
the  several  objections,  such  as  the  absence  of  the  term 
apostle  from  the  inscription,  though  this  is  likewise  not 
found  in  several  of  Paul’s  epistles;  the  want  of  individ- 
uality in  the  document,  though  this  may  easily  be  ac- 
counted for  bv  the  circumstances  of  the  author  in  rela- 
tion to  his  readers;  and  the  apparent  antagonism  to  the 
Pauline  doctrine  of  justification  by  faith,  which  we  shall 
afterwards  consider.  It  is  of  no  avail  to  object,  with 
Wetstein  and  Theile,  that  James  refers  to  the  apocry- 
phal writings,  a practice  unknown  till  a later  period,  for 
Theile’s  array  of  passages  (Prolegomena,  p.  4(3)  does  not 
prove  the  statement,  as  1 luther’s  reply  to  this  and  other 
similar  objections  has  shown  at  length,  and  step  by 
step.  Nor,  lastly,  can  it  be  said  that  the  Greek  style  of 
the  epistle  betrays  a culture  which  the  author  could  not 
possess.  The  style  is  nervous,  indeed,  and  is  more  He- 
braistic in  its  general  structure  than  in  its  individual 
j phrases,  as  in  its  short  and  pithy  clauses,  the  absence 
! of  logical  formula?,  the  want  of  elaborate  constructions, 
its  oratorical  fervor,  and  the  simple  and  direct  outflow 
of  thoughts  in  brief  and  often  parallelistic  clauses.  In- 
| tereourse  with  foreign  Jews  must  have  been  frequent  in 
those  days,  and  there  are  always  minds  which,  from  nat- 
ural propensity,  are  more  apt  than  others  to  acquire  a 
tasteful  facility  in  the  use  of  a tongue  which  has  not 
been  their  vernacular.  Taking  all  these  things  into 
account,  we  have  every  reason  to  accept  the  canonical 
authority  of  this  epistle,  the  trial  it  has  passed  through 
giving  us  fuller  confidence  in  it,  since  the  principal  ob- 
jections are  the  offspring  either  of  polemical  prejudice, 
or  of  a subjective  criticism  based  more  on  a?sthetie  ten- 
dencies than  historical  results.  Rauch  has  faintly  ob- 
jected to  the  integrity  of  the  epistle,  asserting  that  the 
conclusion  of  v,  12-20,  may  be  an  interpolation,  because 
it  is  not  in  logical  harmony  with  what  precedes;  but 
he  has  had  no  followers,  and  Kern,  Theile,  Schnecken- 
burger,  and  others  have  refuted  him — logical  sequence 
being  a form  of  critical  argument  wholly  inapplicable  to 
this  epistle.  (See  Davidson,  Introd.  to  X.  T.  iii,  331  sq.) 
See  Antilegomena. 

III.  The  Persons  for  whom  the  Epistle  is  intended.— 
The  salutation  is  addressed  “ to  the  Twelve  Tribes 
which  are  scattered  abroad”  (Talc  Cute  oca  tpvXaig  raig 
iv  7 -y  Ciatnropa).  They  were  Jews,  aCthtpoi— brethren 
or  believing  Jews,  and  they  lived  beyond  Palestine,  or 
in  the  Dispersion.  Such  are  the  plain  characteristics, 
national  and  religious,  of  the  persons  addressed.  There 
are,  however,  two  extremes  of  religious  opinion  about 
them.  Some,  as  Lardner,  Macknight,  Theile,  Credner, 
and  Hug,  imagine  that  the  epistle  is  meant  for  all  Jews. 
But  the  inscription  forbids  such  a supposition.  The 
tone  of  the  epistle  implies  that  “ the  servant  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ”  addressed  fellow-believers — “brethren” — 
“begotten”  along  with  himself  (i)pag)  “by  the  w'ord  of 
truth,”  and  all  of  them  bearing  the  “good  name”  (naXov 
bropd).  The  first  verse  of  the  second  chapter  implies 
also  that  they  held  “ the  faith  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Ciirist, 
the  Lord  of  Glory,”  and  they  are  exhorted  not  to  hold  it 
inconsistently,  along  with  manifest  respect  of  persons,  or 
showing  unfounded  social  preferences.  They  are  told 
besides,  in  v,  7,  to  exercise  patience,  e<og  Ttjg  irapov- 


JAMES 


JAMES  758 


mag  tov  Kvpiov,  till  the  public  promised  advent  of  the 
Lord  their  Saviour.  The  rich  men  denounced  in  v,  1 
may  not  have  belonged  to  the  Church  in  reality,  but 
this  startling  denunciation  carried  in  it  warning  to  them 
and  comfort  to  the  poor  and  persecuted.  May  there  not 
be,  in  a letter  to  a church,  holy  invective  against  those 
without  it,  who  annoy  and  oppress  its  unresisting  mem-  | 
hers?  Dean  Alford,  after  lluther,  inclines  to  include  in  ( 
the  t ia<j7ropd  Jews  also  in  Palestine — Judaea  being  re- 
garded as  the  centre.  He  refers  to  the  phrase,  Acts  viii, 

1 (wdvTtg  ce  Citcnrdpr]<mv  Kara  nig  X(,JPaG  Tijg’iovca-  | 
tug  Kai  Sapaptictg).  But  the  use  of  the  verb  here  in 
its  general  sense  and  in  an  easy  narrative  cannot  modi- 
fy the  popular  meaning  of  itacnropa  as  the  technical  or 
geographic  title  of  Jews  beyond  Palestine. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  has  been  maintained  by  Kbster 
(Studien  u.  Kritikea,  1831),  Kern,  Neudeeker,  and  De 
Wette,  that  the  title  in  the  inscription  is  a symbolic  one, 
and  signifies  simply  Christians  out  of  Palestine,  as  the 
true  Israel  of  God.  A modification  of  this  view  is  held 
by  others,  viz.,  that  while  the  epistle  is  addressed  to  be- 
lieving Jews,  believing  heathen  and  unconverted  Jews 
are  not  excluded.  But  the  phrase  in  the  inscription,  as 
in  Acts  xxvi,  7,  is  to  be  taken  in  its  natural  sense,  and 
with  no  spiritualized  meaning  or  reference.  The  entire 
tone  and  aspect  also  are  Jewish.  The  place  of  ecclesi- 
astical meeting  is  auvaymyt)  ; the  law,  vo/xog , is  of  su- 
preme authority.  The  divine  unity  is  a primary  and 
distinctive  article  of  faith,  the  ordinary  terms  of  Jewish 
obtestation  are  introduced,  as  is  also  the  prophetic  epi- 
thet symbolizing  spiritual  unfaithfulness, poi\a\ictg  (iv, 
4).  Anointing  with  oil  is  mentioned,  and  the  special  re- 
gard to  be  paid  (i,  27)  to  orphans  and  widows  finds  its 
basis  in  repeated  statutes  of  the  Mosaic  law.  The  errors 
refuted  also  are  such  as  naturally  arose  out  of  Pharisaic 
pride  and  formalism,  and  the  acceptance  of  the  promised  1 
Christ  in  a spirit  of  traditional  carnality.  The  fact  that 
the  Dispersion  was  found  principally  in  the  East— that  j 
is,  in  Syria  and  adjacent  countries — countenances  the 
presumption  that  this  epistle  is  found  in  the  l’eshito  at 
so  early  a period  because  it  had  immediate  circulation 
in  that  region,  and  there  had  proved  the  fitness  and  use- 
fulness of  its  counsels  and  warning.  Josephus  says  of 
the  Dispersion,  that  the  Jews  were  scattered  everywhere, 
7r Xtiarov  de  ti)  !’t»| oia  civapepiyptrov  (IPt/r,  vii,  3,  3).  j 
The  persons  addressed  were  poor;  the  rich  were  their  | 
persecutors,  their  own  partialities  and  preferences  were  j 
worldly  and  inconsistent;  they  wanted  perfect  confidence  1 
in  Gotland  stumbled  at  the  divine  dispensations;  sins 
of  the  tongue  were  common,  eagerness  to  be  public 
teachers  was  an  epidemic  among  them;  they  spoke 
rashly  and  hardly  of  one  another;  and  they  felt  not  the 
connection  between  a living  faith  and  a holy  life.  So- 
ciety was  under  a process  of  apparent  disintegration, 
uars  and  fightings  were  frequent,  with  loss  of  life  and 
property.  Its  extremes  were  the  rich  and  the  poor, 
with  no  middle  class  between  ; for,  though  tradings  and 
jonrneyings  quite  in  Jewish  style  are  referred  to  (iv,  13, 
11).  the  principal  occupation  was  husbandry,  with  no 
social  grade  between  those  who  owned  and  those  who 
reaped  the  fields.  See  Dispersion. 

1 V.  Time  mid  place  of  writing  the  Epistle. — The  place 
most  probably  was  Jerusalem,  where  James  had  his  res- 
idence. Many  allusions  in  the  epistle,  while  they  apply  I 
to  almost  any  Eastern  locality,  carry  in  them  a pre- 
sumption in  favor  of  that  country,  in  the  metropolis  of  ' 
which  James  is  known  to  have  lived  and  labored.  These 
allusions  are  to  such  natural  phenomena  as  parching 
winds,  ver.  1-1 1 ; long  drought,  v,  17,  18;  the  early  and 
latter  rain,  v,  7 ; saline  springs,  iii,  12 ; proximity  to  the 
sea,  i,  <>;  iii,  4 (ling’s  EAnhitung,  ii,  439).  Naturally 
from  the  holy  capital  of  Juihea  goes  forth  from  the 
“servant  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ”  a solemn  circular  to 
all  the  believing  brethren  in  the  Dispersion — lor  to 
them  James  was  a living  authority  to  which  they  bow- 
ed, and  Jerusalem  a holy  centre  that  stirred  a thousand 
loyal  associations  within  them. 


It  is  not  so  easy  to  determine  the  time  at  >vhich  me 
epistle  was  written.  Many  place  the  date  about  the 
year  GO — close  on  the  martyrdom  of  James  the  Just,  or 
not  long  before  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem — as  Michae- 
lis,  Pearson,  Mill,  Guericke,  Burton,  Maekniglit,  Block 
( Einlcit . p.  517, 1862),  and  the  older  commentators  gen- 
erally. Hug  and  De  Wette  place  it  after  the  Epistle  to 
the  Hebrews,  to  which  they  imagine  it  contains  some 
allusions — Hug  holding  that  it  was  written  (iiberlegt) 
on  set  purpose  against  Paul  and  his  doctrine  of  justifica- 
tion by  faith.  So  also  Baur  (Paulas,  p.  G77).  But  these 
reasons  are  by  no  means  conclusive.  The  great  argu- 
ment that  the  Epistle  of  James  was  written  to  oppose 
either  the  doctrine  or  counteract  the  abuses  of  the  doc- 
trine of  justification  by  faith  has,  as  we  shall  see,  no 
foundation.  The  notion  that  this  epistle  is  in  some 
sense  corrective  in  its  tone  and  purpose  appears  plausi- 
ble to  us,  as  Paul  is  so  usually  read  by  us  before  James 
that  we  gain  an  earlier  acquaintance  with  him,  while 
James  occupies  also  a later  place  in  the  ordinary  ar- 
rangement of  the  books  of  the  New  Testament. 

But  it  is  claimed  by  many  that  the  state  of  the  Ju- 
doeo-Christians  addressed  in  the  epistle  is  not  that  which 
we  know  to  have  existed  at  and  before  the  year  GO. 
There  is  no  allusion  to  the  fierce  disputations  as  to  the 
value  and  permanence  of  circumcision,  the  authority 
and  meaning  of  the  ceremonial  law,  or  the  condition^ 
on  which  Gentile  converts  should  be  admitted  into  the 
Church — the  questions  discussed  at  the  Council  of  Jeru- 
salem. ( ’ontroversics  on  these  points,  it  is  asserted,  sat- 
urated the  Church  during  many  years  before  the  fall  of 
Jerusalem,  and  no  one  could  address  Jewish  converts  at 
any  length  without  some  allusion  to  them.  The  myri- 
ads who  believed,  as  James  said,  were  “all  zealous  of 
the  law”  (Acts  xxi,  20) ; and  that  zeal  assumed  so  many 
false  shapes,  threw  up  so  many  harriers  in  the  way  of 
ecclesiastical  relationship,  nay,  occasionally  so  infringed 
on  the  unconditioned  freeness  of  the  Gospel  as  to  rob  it 
of  its  simplicity  and  power,  that  no  Jew  addressing  Jew- 
ish believers  with  the  authority  and  from  the  position 
of  James  could  fail  to  dwell  on  those  disturbing  and  en- 
grossing peculiarities.  The  inference,  therefore,  on  the 
part  of  many  critics,  is,  that  the  epistle  was  written  prior 
to  those  keen  and  universal  discussions,  and  to  that  state 
of  the  Church  which  gave  them  origin  and  continu- 
ance; prior,  therefore,  also  to  the  time  when  the  labors 
of  the  apostle  Paul  among  the  Gentiles  called  such  at- 
tention to  their  success  that  “certain  from  James  came 
down”  to  Antioch  to  examine  for  themselves  and  carry 
back  a report  to  the  mother  Church  in  Jerusalem  (Acts 
xv  ; Gal.  ii).  The  epistle,  on  this  view,  might  be  writ- 
ten shortly  before  the  Council  of  Jerusalem— probably 
about  the  year  45.  Such  is  the  opinion  of  Neandcr, 
Schneokenburger,  Theile,  Thiersch,  lluther,  Davidson, 
and  Alford. 

On  the  other  hand,  Wiesinger  and  Bleek  justly  object 
that  the  interval  supposed  is  too  limited  for  such  a 
growth  of  Christianity  as  this  epistle  implies.  More- 
over, although  the  argument  in  favor  of  an  early  date, 
drawn  from  the  supposed  design  of  counteracting  the 
misinterpretation  of  some  of  Paul’s  doctrines  (comp.  2 
Pet.  iii,  1G),  is  scarcely  tenable,  yet  the  epistle  manifest- 
ly presupposes  such  a general  intelligence  of  Gospel 
terms  and  truth  as  could  hardly  have  obtained,  especial- 
ly abroad,  so  early  as  prior  to  the  first  council  at  Jerusa- 
lem (Acts  xv).  Indeed,  many  of  the  above  arguments  in 
favor  of  this  very  early  date  are  self-contradictory ; for 
it  was  precisely  at  this  period  that  the  disputes  and  con- 
troversies in  question  raged  most  fiercely,  not  having  yet 
been  authoritatively  determined  by  any  ecclesiastical 
consultation  (comp.  Paul’s  strong  contention  with  Peter 
and  Barnabas) ; whereas  the  official  edict  of  that  coun- 
cil precluded  any  further  public  discussion.  In  this  re- 
spect the  Epistle  of  James  will  fairly  compare  with  that 
to  the  Hebrews,  written  about  the  same  time.  The 
reasoning,  however,  may  be  allowed  to  hold  good  against 
so  late  a date  as  immediately  preceding  Jerusalem’s 


JAMES 


159 


JAMES 


fall  (so  Macknight  infers  from  v,  1);  for  at  that  time 
the  old  controversy  appears  to  have  been  somewhat  re- 
vived. De  Wette  adduces  the  allusion  to  the  name 
“ Christians”  in  ii,  7,  as  an  evidence  in  favor  of  the  late 
date;  but  this  would  only  require  a date  later  than  that 
of  Acts  xi,  2G.  On  the  whole,  the  evidence  decidedly 
preponderates  in  favor  of  the  interval  between  Paul’s 
two  imprisonments  at  Home,  or  about  A.D.  G2. 

V.  Object  of  Writing . — The  main  design  of  the  epis- 
tle is  not  to  teach  doctrine,  but  to  improve  morality. 
James  is  the  moral  teacher  of  the  N.  Test.;  not  in  such 
sense  a moral  teacher  as  not  to  be  at  the  same  time  a 
maintainer  and  teacher  of  Christian  doctrine,  but  yet 
mainly  in  this  epistle  a moral  teacher.  There  are  two 
ways  of  explaining  this  characteristic  of  the  epistle. 
Some  commentators  and  writers  see  in  James  a man 
who  had  not  realized  the  essential  principles  and  pecul- 
iarities of  Christianity,  but  was  in  a transition  state, 
half  Jew  and  half  Christian.  Schneckenburger  thinks 
that  Christianity  had  not  penetrated  his  spiritual  life. 
Neander  is  of  much  the  same  opinion  ( Pjlanznvg  und 
Leitung,  p.  579).  The  same  notion  may  perhaps  be 
traced  in  Prof.  Stanley  and  dean  Alford.  But  there  is 
another  and  much  more  natural  way  of  accounting  for 
the  fact.  James  was  writing  for  a special  class  of  per- 
sons, and  knew  what  that  class  especially  needed ; and 
therefore,  under  the  guidance  of  God’s  Spirit,  he  adapt- 
ed his  instructions  to  their  capacities  and  wants.  Those 
for  whom  he  wrote  were,  as  we  have  said,  the  Jewish 
Christians,  whether  in  Jerusalem  or  abroad.  James, 
living  in  the  centre  of  Judaism,  saw  what  •were  the 
chief  sins  and  vices  of  his  countrymen , and,  fearing 
that  his  flock  might  share  in  them,  he  lifted  up  his  voice 
to  warn  them  against  the  contagion  from  which  they 
not  only  might,  but  did  in  part  suffer.  This  was  his 
main  object ; but  there  is  another  closely  connected  with 
it.  As  Christians,  his  readers  were  exposed  to  trials 
which  they  did  not  bear  with  the  patience  and  faith 
that  would  have  become  them.  Here,  then,  are  the  two 
objects  of  the  epistle:  1.  To  warn  against  the  sins  to 
which,  as  Jews,  they  were  most  liable.  2.  To  console 
and  exhort  them  under  the  sufferings  to  which,  as 
Christians,  they  were  most  exposed.  The  warnings 
and  consolations  are  mixed  together,  for  the  writer  does 
not  seem  to  have  set  himself  down  to  compose  an  essay 
or  a letter  of  which  he  had  previously  arranged  the 
heads;  but,  like  one  of  the  old  prophets,  to  have  poured 
out  what  was  uppermost  in  his  thoughts,  or  closest  to 
his  heart,  without  waiting  to  connect  his  matter,  or  to 
throw  bridges  across  from  subject  to  subject.  While, 
in  the  purity  of  his  Greek  and  the  vigor  of  his  thoughts, 
we  mark  a man  of  education,  in  the  abruptness  of  his 
transitions  and  the  unpolished  roughness  of  his  style 
we  may  trace  one  of  the  family  of  the  Davideans,  who 
disarmed  Domitian  by  the  simplicity  of  their  minds, 
and  by  exhibiting  their  hands  hard  with  toil  (llegesip- 
pus  upud  Eu*eb.  iii,  20. 

The  Jewish  vices  against  which  he  warns  them  are — 
formalism,  which  made  the  service  (OptjaKtia)  of  God 
consist  in  washings  and  outward  ceremonies,  whereas 
he  reminds  them  (i,  27)  that  it  consists  rather  in  active 
love  and  purity  (see  Coleridge’s  .1  ids  to  lie  flection,  Aph. 
23;  note  also  active  love  = Bp.  Butler’s  “benevolence,” 
and  purity  = Bp.  Butler’s  “ temperance”)  ; fanaticism, 
which,  under  the  cloak  of  religious  zeal,  was  tearing  Je- 
rusalem to  pieces  (i,  20) ; fatalism,  which  threw  its  sins 
on  God  (i,  13) ; meanness,  which  crouched  before  the 
rich  (ii,  2)  ; falsehood,  which  had  made  words  and  oaths 
playthings  (iii,  2-12) ; partisanship  (iii,  14) ; evil  speak- 
ing (iv,  11);  boasting  (iv,  1G) ; oppression  (v,  4).  The 
great  lesson  which  he  teaches  them,  as  Christians,  is 
patience — patience  in  trial  (i,  2);  patience  in  good  works 
(i,  22-25) ; patience  under  provocations  (iii,  17) ; pa- 
tience under  oppression  (v,  7);  patience  under  persecu- 
tion (v,  10);  and  the  ground  of  their  patience  is,  that 
the  coming  of  the  Lord  draweth  nigh,  which  is  to  right 
all  wrongs  (v,  8). 


| VI.  There  are  two  points  in  the  epistle  which  de- 
mand a somewhat  more  lengthened  notice.  These  are, 
(a)  ii,  14-2G,  which  has  been  represented  as  a formal 
opposition  to  Paul’s  doctrine  of  justification  by  faith; 
and  ( b ) v,  14,  15,  which  is  quoted  as  the  authority  for 
the  sacrament  of  extreme  unction. 

(«)  Justification  being  an  act,  not  of  man,  but  of  God, 
both  the  phrases  “justification  by  faith”  and  “justifi- 
cation by  works”  are  inexact.  Justification  must  either 
be  by  grace  or  of  reward.  Therefore  our  question  is, 
Did  or  did  not  James  hold  justification  by  grace?  If 
he  did,  there  is  no  contradiction  between  the  apostles. 
Now  there  is  not  one  word  in  James  to  the  effect  that  a 
man  can  earn  his  justification  by  works;  and  this  would 
be  necessary  in  order  to  prove  that  he  held  justification 
of  reward.  Still  Paul  does  use  the  expression  “justi- 
fied by  faith”  (Rom.  v,  1),  and  James  the  expression 
“justified  by  works,  not  by  faith  only.”  Here  is  an 
apparent  opposition.  But,  if  we  consider  the  meaning 
of  the  two  apostles,  we  see  at  once  that  there  is  no  con- 
tradiction either  intended  or  possible.  Paul  was  oppos- 
ing the  Judaizing  party,  which  claimed  to  earn  accept- 
ance by  good  works,  whether  the  works  of  the  Mosaic 
law,  or  works  of  pietjr  done  by  themselves.  In  opposi- 
tion to  these,  Paul  lays  down  the  great  truth  that  ac- 
ceptance cannot  be  earned  by  man  at  all,  but  is  the  free 
gift  of  God  to  the  Christian  man,  for  the  sake  of  the 
merits  of  Jesus  Christ,  appropriated  by  each  individual, 
and  made  his  own  by  the  instrumentality  of  faith. 
James,  on  the  other  hand,  was  opposing  the  old  Jewish 
tenet  that  to  be  a child  of  Abraham  was  all  in  all ; that 
godliness  was  not  necessary,  if  but  the  belief  was  cor- 
rect. This  presumptuous  confidence  had  transferred  it- 
self, with  perhaps  double  force,  to  the  Christianized 
Jews.  They  had  said,  “ Lord,  Lord,”  and  that  was 
enough,  without  doing  his  Father’s  will.  They  had  rec- 
ognised the  Messiah  : what  more  was  wanted?  They 
had  faith:  what  more  was  required  of  them?  It  is 
plain  that  their  “faith”  was  a totally  different  thing 
from  the  “faith”  of  Paul.  Paul  tolls  us  again  and  again 
that  his  “faith”  is  a “faith  that  worketh  by  love;”  but 
the  very  characteristic  of  the  “faith”  which  James  is 
attacking,  and  the  very  reason  why  he  attacked  it,  was 
that  it  did  not  work  by  love,  but  was  a bare  assent  cf 
the  head,  not  influencing  the  heart;  a faith  such  as 
devils  can  have,  and  tremble.  James  tells  us  that 
“fdes  informin' ’ is  not  sufficient  on  the  part  of  man  for 
justification  ; Paul  tells  us  that  “fdesformata"  is  suffi- 
cient: and  the  reason  why  fdes  informis  will  not  justify 
us  is,  according  to  James,  because  it  lacks  that  special 
quality,  the  addition  of  which  constitutes  its  fdes  for- 
mat a.  See,  on  this  subject,  Bull’s  Ilarmonia  A postolica 
et  Examen  Censnrce ; Taylor’s  Sermon  on  u Faith  icork- 
ing  by  Love,"  viii,  284  (Loud.  1850) ; and,  as  a corrective 
of  Bull’s  view,  Laurence’s  Bampton  Lectures,  iv,  v,  vi. 
Other  discussions  may  be  found  in  Knapp,  Scripta,  p. 
511:  Reuss,  Theologie,  ii,  524;  Hofmann,  Schriftbeu-eis, 
i,  G39 ; Wardlaw’s  Sermons ; Wood’s  Theology,  ii.  408 ; 
Watson’s  Institutes,  ii,  G 14 ; Lochler,  Das  Apostol.  und 
nachaposiolische  Zeitalter,  p.  1G3.  For  monographs,  see 
Walcli,  Biblische  Theologie,  iv,  941  ; Danz,  Wortirbuch, 
s.  v.  Jacobus.  See  Justification;  ILuth. 

(5)  With  respect  to  v,  14,  15,  it  is  enough  to  say  that 
the  ceremony  of  extreme  unction  and  the  ceremony  de- 
scribed by  James  differ  both  in  their  subject  and  in  their 
object.  The  subject  of  extreme  unction  is  a sick  man 
who  is  about  to  die,  and  its  object  is  not  his  cure.  The 
subject  of  the  ceremony  described  by  James  is  a sick 
man  who  is  not  about  to  die,  and  its  object  is  his  cure, 
together  with  the  spiritual  benefit  of  absolution.  James 
is  plainly  giving  directions  with  respect  to  the  manner 
of  administering  one  of  those  extraordinary  gifts  of  the 
Spirit  with  which  the  Church  was  endowed  only  in  the 
apostolic  age  and  the  age  immediately  succeeding  the 
apostles. 

VII.  Contents, — The  errors  and  sins  against  which 
James  warns  his  readers  are  such  as  arose  out  of  their 


JAMES 


760 


JAMES 


situation.  Perfection — TtXttoryg  is  a prominent  idea, 
and  ri\tiog  is  a frequent  epithet — the  “perfect  work 
of  patience,  the  “perfect”  gift  of  God,  the  “perfect  law” 
of  liberty  or  the  new  covenant,  faith  “made  perfect,” 
and  the  tongue-governing  man  is  a “ perfect  man.”  He 
writes  from  a knowledge  of  their  circumstances,  does 
not  set  before  them  an  ethical  system  for  their  leisurely 
study,  but  selects  the  vices  of  opinion  and  life  to  which 
their  circumstances  so  markedly  and  so  naturally  ex- 
posed them.  Patience  is  a primary  inculcation,  it  being 
essential  to  that  perfection  which  is  his  central  thought. 
Trials  develop  patience,  and  such  evils  as  produce  trials 
are  not  to  be  ascribed  in  a spirit  of  fatalism  to  God. 
Spiritual  life  is  enjoyed  by  believers,  and  is  fostered  by 
the  reception,  and  specially  by  the  doing  of  the  word; 
and  true  religious  service  is  unworldly  and  disinterested 
beneficence.  Partial  preferences  are  forbidden  by  the 
royal  law — faith  without  works  is  dead — tongue  and 
temper  are  to  be  under  special  guard,  and  under  the  con- 
trol of  wisdom — the  deceits  of  casuistry  are  to  be  es- 
chewed— contentious  covetousness  is  to  be  avoided  as 
one  of  the  works  of  the  devil,  along  with  ceusorioHS 
pride.  Rich  oppressors  are  denounced,  and  patience  is 
enjoined  on  all;  the  fitting  exercises  in  times  of  glad- 
ness and  of  sickness  are  prescribed ; the  efficacy  of  prayer 
is  extolled  and  exemplified;  while  the  conclusion  ani- 
mates his  readers  to  do  for  others  what  he  has  been  do-  j 
ing  for  them— to  convert  them  “from  the  error  of  their 
way”  (see  Stanley’s  Sermons  and  Essuys  on  the  Apostolic 
Aye,  p.  297). 

The  epistle  contains  no  allusion  to  the  cardinal  doc- 
trines of  Christianity,  though  the}'  are  implied.  It  was 
not  the  writer’s  object  either  to  discuss  or  defend  them. 
It  would  be  unwarranted,  on  that  account,  to  say  that 
Christianity  had  not  penetrated  his  own  spiritual  life,  or 
that  he  was  only  in  a transition  state  between  Judaism 
and  Christianity.  He  might  not,  indeed,  have  the  free 
and  unnational  views  of  Paul  in  presenting  the  Gospel. 
But  a true  Christianity  is  implied,  and  his  immediate 
work  lay  in  enforcing  certain  Christian  duties,  which  he 
does  in  the  style  of  the  Master  himself. 

VIII.  Style  and  Lonyuaye. — The  similarity  of  this 
epistle  in  tone  and  form  to  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount 
has  often  been  remarked.  In  the  spirit  of  the  Great 
Teacher,  he  sharply  reprobates  all  extcrualism,  all  self- 
ishness, inconsistency,  worldliness,  ostentation,  self-de- 
ception, and  hypocrisy.  Thus  in  the  first  chapter  as 
a sample:  comp,  i,  2,  Matt,  v,  10-12;  i. 4,  Matt,  v,  48; 
i,  6,  Matt,  vii,  7,  i,  9,  Matt,  v,  3;  i,  20,  Matt,  v,  22,  etc. 
l'lie  epistle,  in  short,  is  a long  and  earnest  illustration 
of  the  final  warning  given  by  our  Lord  in  the  figures  of 
building  on  the  rock  and  building  on  the  sand.  The 
composition  is  the  abrupt  and  stern  utterance  of  an  ear- 
nest, practical  soul — a rapid  series  of  censures  and  coun- 
scls — not  entirely  disconnected,  but  generally  suggested 
by  some  inner  link  of  association.  Often  a "general  law 
is  epigram m at ically  laid  down,  while  a peculiar  sin  is 
reprobated  or  a pecidiar  virtue  enforced — or  a principle 
is  announced  in  the  application  of  it.  The  style  is  vig- 
orous— lull  of  imperatives  so  solemn  and  categorical  as 
to  dispel  all  idea  of  resistance  or  compromise,  and  of  in- 
terrogations so  pointed  that  they  carry  their  answer 
with  them.  It  is  also  marked  by  epithets  so  bold  and 
forcible  that  they  give  freshness  and  color  to  the  dic- 
tion. The  clauses  have  a rhetorical  beauty  and  power, 
and  as  in  men  of  fervent  oratorical  temperament,  the 
words  often  fall  into  rhythmical  order,  while  the  thoughts 
occasionally  blossom  into  poetry.  An  accidental  hex- 
ameter is  found  in  i,  17  [provided  it  be  lawful  to  make 
the  last  syllable  of  cotng  long]. 

The  Greek  is  remarkably  pure,  and  it  is  difficult  to 
account  for  this  comparative  purity.  Hegesippus,  as 
quoted  by  Eusebius,  says  that  James’s  believing  breth- 
ren desired  him  to  address  the  crowds  assembled  at  the 
Passover ; for  there  were  brought  together  “all  the 
*rmes,  with  also  the  Gentiles”— Traaai  «i  <pv\ai  jura  [ 
(cut  twv  tOrwv ; and  Greek  must  have  been  the  lan-  i 


j guage  employed.  It  is  therefore  quite  preposterous  on 
the  part  of  Bolten,  Betholdt,  and  Schott  to  suspect  that 
the  Greek  of  this  epistle  is  a translation  from  an  Ara- 
maian  original. 

Resemblances  have  sometimes  been  traced  between 
this  epistle  and  the  first  Epistle  of  Peter,  and  these  may 
be  accounted  for  by  the  fact  that  both  authors  were  some- 
I what  similarly  circumstanced  in  relation  to  their  read- 
ers. But  Hug’s  and  Bleek’s  inference  is  a rash  one — 
that  Peter  must  have  read  the  epistle  of  James. 

In  a word,  the  Epistle  of  James  is  a noble  protest 
against  laxity  of  morals — against  supine  and  easy  acqui- 
escence in  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  without  feeling  their 
power  or  acting  under  their  influence,  while  it  presents 
such  ethical  lessons  as  the  Church,  placed  in  multiple  re- 
lations to  a world  of  sense  and  trial,  has  ever  need  of  to 
animate  and  sustain  it  in  its  progress  towards  perfection. 
— Kitto;  Smith. 

IX.  Commentaries. — The  following  are  the  exegetical 
treatises  expressly  on  the  whole  epistle;  to  a few  of  the 
most  important  we  prefix  an  asterisk  (*) : Didymus  Al- 
exandrinus,  In  Ep.  Jacobi  (in  Bill.  Max.  Patr.  v,  320) ; 
Althanier,  1 usleyuny  (Arg.  1527,  8vo);  Zuingle,  Adno- 
tationes  (Tigur.  1 533, 8vo ; also  in  Opp.  iv,  534) ; Foleng, 
Commentarius  (Lugdun.  1555, 8vo) ; Logenhagen,  A dno- 
tationes  (Antw.  1571, 8vo;  1572, 12mo) ; Ileminge,  Com- 
mentary (London,  1577,  4to);  Feuardent,  Commentarius 
(Paris,  1599,  8vo);  Rung,  Commentarius  (Wittenb.  1600, 
8vo);  Bracclie,  Commentarius  (Paris,  1605,  4to) ; Turn- 
bull,  Lectures  (Lond.  1606,  4to) ; Winckelmann,  Explica- 
te (Giess.  1608,  8vo);  S ten  art,  Commentarius  (Ingolst. 
1610,  4to);  Paez,  Commentaria  (Antwerp,  1617,  1623; 
Lugd.  1620,  4to);  Lorin,  Commentarius  [includ.  Jude] 
(Mogunt.  1622;  Colon.  1633,  fob);  Wolzogen,  .1  nnotati- 
ones  (in  Opp.) ; Laurent,  Commentarius  (Amst.  1635, 1662, 
4to) ; Kerner,  Prediyten  (Ulm,  1639,  8vo) ; Mayer,  Ex- 
position (London,  1639, 4to) ; Price,  Commentarii  (Loud, 
1646,  fol.;  also  in  the  Crit.Sacri);  *Manton,  Commentary 
(London,  1653,  4to ; 1840, 1842. 1844,  8vo) ; Brochmand, 
Commentarius  (llafn.  1641,  1706,  4to;  Frankfurt,  1658, 
fob);  Schmidt,  Disputationes  [includ.  Ephes.  etc.]  (Ar- 
gent. 1685,  1699,  4to)  ; Creid , Prediyten  (Frankf.  1694, 
8vo)  ; Smith,  Vitbreidiny  (Amst.  1698,  4to) ; Crevghton, 
Verldaariny  [includ.  John’s  ep.]  (Franeck.  1704,  4to); 
Griebner,  Prediyten  (Lpz.  1720,  8vo);  Grammlieh,  An- 
merk. (Stuttgard,  1721, 8vo) ; Michaelis,  Introductio  (Hal. 
1722,  4to);  Benson,  Paraphrase  (Lond.  1738, 4to;  with 
the  other  cath.  ep.  ib.  1749, 1756, 4to;  in  Latin,  Hal.  1747, 
4to);  Ileisen,  Dissertationes  (Brem.  1739,  4to);  Janson, 
Verklaar.  (Gron.  1742, 4to) ; Danmi,  Anmerk.  (Berk  1747, 
8vo) ; Baumgarten,  A usleyuny  (Hal.  1750, 4to) ; Semler, 
Paraphrasis  (Hal.  1781;  in  Germ.  Potsd.  1789);  Storr, 
Dissertationes  (Tiib.  1784,  4to;  also  in  his  Opusc.  Acad. 
ii,  1-74) ; E.  F.  K.  Rosenmuller,  Anmerk.  (Leipzig,  1787, 
8vo) ; Morns,  Preelectiones  [including  Pet.]  (Lips.  1794, 
8vo);  Goltz,  Yerklaariny  (Amster.  1798,  4to) ; Scherer, 
Erlclar.  (vol.  i,  Marb.  1799,  8vo) ; Antonio,  Yerldaarinye 
(Leyd.  1799,  4to)  ; Hensler,  Erlaut.  (Ilamb.  1801,  8vo) ; 
Clarissc,  Bearbeid.  (Amst.  1802,  8vo)  ; Stuart,  Verklaar. 
(Amst.  1806, 8vo) ; Van  Ivosten,  Yerklaariny  (Amst.  1821, 
8vo) ; *Schulthess,  Commentar.  (Turici,  1824, 8vo) ; ( leb- 
ser,  Erklar.  (Herb  1828.8vo);  *Schneckenburger,  Annot. 
(Stuttg.  1832,  8vo)  ; *Tlieile,  Commentar.  (Lipsiie,  1833, 
8vo) ; Jacobi,  Prediyten  (Berl.  1835,  8vo;  tr.  by  Hyland, 
London,  1838,  8vo) ; Kern,  Erklaruny  (Tiib.  1838,  8vo)  ; 
Scliarling,  Commentarius  [including  Jude]  (Havn.  1840, 
8vo);  *Stier,  Ausleynny  (Barmen,  1845, 8vo) ; Cellerier, 
Commentaire  (Par.  1850, 8vo);  Stanley,  Sermons  (in  Ser- 
mons and  Essays,  p.  291);  *Neander,  Erldnter.  ( Berlin, 
1850, 8vo,  being  vol.  vi  of  his  ed.  of  the  Heiliye  Schrift. ; 
tr.  by  Mrs.  Conant,  X.  Y.  1852,  12mo) ; Driiseke,  Prediy - 
ten  (Lpz.  1851, 8vo) ; Patterson,  Commentary  (in  the  Jour, 
of  Sac.  Lit.  Oct.  1851,  p.  250  sq.) ; *\Vicsinger,  Commen- 
Orr(Konigs.  1854, 8vo,  being  vol.  vi  of  Olshausen’s  Com- 
mentary) ; Viedebraiult,  Bibelstunden  (Berl.  1859,  8vo)  ; 
Porubszky,  Prediyten  (Vienna,  1861, 8vo) ; Wardlaw,  Lec- 
tures (London,  1862,  12mo) ; Hermann  [edit.  Bouman], 


JAMES 


761 


JAMES  I 


Commentarius  (Tr.  ad  Eli.  1865, 8vo);  *Adam,  Discourses 
(Edinb.  1867,  8vo);  Ewald,  Erkldrung  [includ.  Heb.] 
(Gott.  1870, 8vo).  See  Epistle. 

JAMES,  SEURIOUS  WRITINGS  OF.— The  follow- 
ing pseudepi  graph  al  works  have  been  attributed  to  the 
apostle  James : 1.  The  Protevangelium.  2.  Ilistoria  de 
Natiritate  Maria?,  3.  De  miraculis  infantice  Domini 
nostri,  etc.  Of  these,  the  Protevangelium  is  worth  a 
passing  notice,  not  for  its  contents,  which  are  a mere 
parody  on  the  early  chapters  of  Luke,  transferring  the 
events  which  occurred  at  our  Lord’s  birth  to  the  birth 
of  Mary  his  mother,  but  because  it  appears  to  have  been 
early  known  in  the  Church.  It  is  possible  that  Jus- 
tin Martyr  (Dial,  cum  Tryph.  c.  lxxviii)  and  Clement 
of  Alexandria  (Stromata,  iib.  viii)  refer  to  it.  Origen 
speaks  of  it  (in  Matt,  xiii,  55) ; Gregory  Nyssen  (Opp. 
p.  346,  edit.  Paris),  Epiplianius  (fleer,  lxxix),  John  Da- 
mascene (Or at.  i,  ii,  in  Nativ.  Maria),  Photius  (Orat. 
in  Nativ.  Maria?),  and  others,  allude  to  it.  It  was  first 
published  in  Latin,  in  1552,  in  Greek  in  1564.  The  old- 
est MS.  of  it  now  existing  is  of  the  10th  century.  (See 
Thilo’s  Codex  Apocryphus  Novi  Testa  mend,  i,  45,  108, 
159,  337,  Lips.  1852.)— Smith.  See  Apocrypha. 

James,  St.  (of  Compostella),  CHURCH  OF,  a 
very  farnons  church  in  Spain,  dedicated  to  St.  James 
Major,  the  patron  saint  of  the  kingdom.  A wooden 
bust  of  the  saint,  with  tapers  ever  burning  before  it, 
has  stood  on  the  high  altar  for  nine  hundred  years, 
and  the  church  is  the  resort  of  numerous  pilgrims,  who 
kiss  the  image.  Miracles  are  ascribed  to  St.  James, 
such  as  appearing  on  a white  horse  defeating  the  Moors. 
— Eadie,  Eccles.  Did.  s.  v.  See  Compost  ella. 

James’s,  St.,  DAY,  is  a festival  in  some  churches, 
falling  in  the  Western  churches  on  the  25th  of  July, 
and  in  the  Eastern  on  the  23d  of  October,  and  commem- 
orating St.  James  the  Elder,  son  of  Zebedee,  and  brother 
of  St.John.  No  trace  of  this  festival  at  an  early  period 
can  be  found  in  any  country  but  Spain.  James  was  the 
first  of  the  apostles  that  suffered  martyrdom.  This  par- 
ticular day  was  chosen  for  the  commemoration,  not  with 
reference  to  the  date  of  the  apostle’s  death,  which  took 
place  probably  a little  before  Easter,  but  in  connection 
with  the  legend  of  a miraculous  translation  of  the  relic 
of  the  apostle  from  Palestine  to  Compostella,  in  Spain. 
See  Farrar,  Eccles.  Did.  s.  v. 

James,  St.  (the  Less),  FESTIVAL  OF.  See  St. 
Philip. 

James,  St.,  LITURGY  OF,  a form  of  service  which 
was  very  early  used  in  the  patriarchate  of  Antioch  ; the 
Monophvsites  using  it  in  Syriac  and  the  orthodox  in 
Greek,  this  last  having  in  it  many  interpolations  from 
the  liturgies  of  other  places.  Palmer,  in  his  Origines 
Liturgicee,  with  which  Neale  (Inf rod.  East.  Ch.  p.  318) 
agrees,  says,  “ There  are  satisfactory  means  of  ascertain- 
ing the  order,  substance,  and  generally  the  expressions 
of  the  solemn  liturgy  used  all  through  the  patriarchate 
of  Antioch  and  Jerusalem  before  the  year  451 ; that  the 
liturgy  thus  ascertained  coincides  with  the  notices  which 
the  fathers  of  that  country  give  concerning  their  liturgy 
during  the  5th  and  4th  centuries;  that  this  liturgy  was 
used  in  the  whole  patriarchate  of  Antioch  in  the  4th 
century  with  little  variety;  that  it  prevailed  there  in 
the  3d  century,  and  even  in  the  2d.  The  liturgy  of  St. 
James  may  therefore  be  considered  to  have  originated 
near  the  time  of  the  birth  of  Christianity;  at  least  in 
the  first  century  of  our  awa”  (comp.  Neale,  Introd.  East. 
Ch.  bk.  iii,  ch.  i,  especially  p.  319). — Eadie,  Eccles.  Did. 
s.  v. 

James  of  Edessa,  etc.  See  Jacob  of  Edessa,  etc. 

James  I of  England  and  VI  of  Scotland  was 
the  only  offspring  of  Man',  queen  of  Scots,  by  her  sec- 
ond husband,  Henry  Stuart,  lord  Damlev,  who,  through 
his  father,  Matthew  Stuart,  earl  of  Lennox,  being  de- 
scended from  a daughter  of  James  II,  had  some  preten- 
sions to  the  succession  of  the  Scottish  throne  in  case 


of  5 1 ary  dying  without  issue.  He  was  the  grandson, 
as  Mary  was  the  granddaughter,  of  Margaret  Tudor, 
through  whom  the  Scottish  line  claimed  and  eventually 
obtained  the  inheritance  of  the  crown  of  England  after 
the  failure  of  the  descendants  of  Henry  VIII.  The  son 
of  Mary  and  Darnley  (or  king  Henry,  as  he  was  called 
after  his  marriage)  was  bom  in  the.  castle  of  Edinburgh 
June  19, 1566,  and  was  baptized  according  to  the  Roman 
Catholic  ritual  in  Stirling  Castle  December  17  following, 
by  the  names  of  Charles  James.  The  murder  of  Darn- 
ley  took  place  Feb.  18, 1567,  and  was  followed  by  Mary’s 
marriage  with  Botliwell  on  May  15  of  the  same  year; 
her  capture  by  the  insurgent  nobles,  or  Lords  of  the  Con- 
gregation as  they  called  themselves,  at  Carberry,  on 
June  14  ; her  consignment  as  a prisoner  to  the  castle  of 
Loehleven  on  the  17th,  and  her  forced  resignation  of 
the  crown  on  July  24,  in  favor  of  her  son,  who  was 
crowned  at  Stirling  on  the  28th  as  James  VI,  being  then 
an  infant  of  a little  more  than  a year  old.  It  was  at 
this  time  that  the  final  struggle  was  raging  in  Scotland 
between  the  two  great  interests  of  the  old  and  the  new 
religion,  which,  besides  their  intrinsic  importance,  were 
respectively  identified  with  the  French  and  the  English 
alliance,  and  which,  together  with  the  old  and  the  new 
distribution  of  the  property  of  the  kingdom,  made  the 
minority  of  James  stormy  beyond  even  the  ordinary 
experience  of  Scottish  minorities.  Before  his  mother’s 
marriage  with  Bothwell  he  had  been  committed  by  her 
to  the  care,  of  the  earl  of  Mar;  and  James's  education 
was  mainly  intrusted  to  Mar’s  brother,  Alexander  Ers- 
kine,  and  other  distinguished  Scotch  scholars,  among 
whom  figured  most  prominently  the  Protestant  George 
Buchanan,  a zealous  adherent  of  the  Presbyterian  Church. 
During  the  minority  of  the  young  king,  the  earl  of  Mor- 
ton had  been  assigned  the  regency ; but  James’s  guar- 
dians being  anxious  to  control  themselves  the  affairs  of 
state,  in  1578  Morton  was  driven  from  power,  and  James 
nominally  assumed  the  direction  of  affairs.  Morton, 
however,  soon  succeeded  in  re-establishing  himself,  and 
held  the  government  for  another  short  period,  when  he 
was  finally  deposed,  and  the  young  king  again  obtained 
the  control  of  state  affairs.  lie  was  at  this  time  only 
twelve  years  of  age,  and  was  assisted  by  a council  of 
twelve  nobles.  Once  more  great  rejoicings  were  mani- 
fest throughout  the  land.  All  parties  hailed  the  event 
as  the  inauguration  of  a new  ;era,  and  to  all  it  seemed 
to  bring  the  prospects  of  power  and  prosperity.  Pres- 
byterians relied  on  the  early  training  of  the  prince;  Ro- 
manists on  the  descendeney  of  the  young  ruler,  and,  re- 
garding his  mother  as  in  some  sense  a martyr  to  their 
cause,  supposed  that  it  would  naturally  enough  influ- 
ence James  to  incline  to,  if  not  openly  espouse  Roman- 
ism. The  pope  wrote  pleasant  letters  to  the  young 
monarch,  and  Jesuits  were  dispatched  with  all  haste  to 
serve,  in  the  garb  of  Puritans,  the  cause  of  Rome.  The 
greater,  then,  was  the  discontent  among  his  Roman 
Catholic  subjects  when  James  showed  predilections  for 
the  Presbyterian  Church.  Shortly  after  his  accession, 
the  “Book  of  Policy,”  which  up  to  our  day  remains 
j the  guide  of  the  Scottish  Church  in  ecclesiastical  gov- 
| ernment  and  other  affairs  of  a similar  nature,  was  issued, 
j Another  very  important  step  taken  was  the  publication 
J of  a confession  of  faith  by  the  General  Assembly,  which 
the  king  approved  and  swore  to  (comp.  Sack,  Church  of 
j Scotland,  ii,  5 sq.).  New  presbyteries  were  established 
i throughout  the  realm,  and  it  seemed  as  if  the  Puritans 
j were  to  be  the  only  favorites,  when,  on  a sudden,  by  a 
successful  conspiracy  of  a party  of  nobles,  James  was 
imprisoned,  with  the  endeavor  to  force  him  to  more  fa- 
vorable actions  in  behalf  of  his  Roman  Catholic  sub- 
jects. The  whole  affair  is  known  in  English  history 
as  the  “ Raid  of  Ruthven.”  A counterplot  in  1583  se- 
cured the  freedom  of  the  monarch,  but  from  henceforth 
a new  policy  was  inaugurated,  in  which  he  was  wholly 
controlled  by  the  nobles  of  his  court.  In  1584  five 
resolutions  were  published,  known  as  the  “ black  resolu- 
tions,” which  aimed  at  the  total  abrogation  of  the  Pres- 


JAMES  I 


JAMES  I *62 


byterian  Church.  Severe  persecutions  followed,  and  it 
seemed  for  a time  as  if  James  had  actually  turned  to 
Romanism.  After  the  death  of  his  mother,  Elizabeth 
courted  the  favor  of  James,  and  a treaty  was  finally 
concluded  between  them,  by  which  the  two  kingdoms 
bound  themselves  to  an  offensive  and  defensive  alliance 
against  all  foreign  powers  who  should  invade  their  ter- 
ritories, or  attempt  to  disturb  the  reformed  religious  es- 
tablishments of  either.  This  action,  of  course,  at  once 
favored  the  Protestant  subjects  of  James;  for  his  sever- 
ity assumed  towards  them  previous  to  this  alliance  was 
due,  no  doubt,  to  his  endeavor  to  secure,  in  view  of  the 
persecution  of  his  mother  by  Elizabeth,  an  alliance  with 
Spain,  a strong  Roman  Catholic  power.  It  was  sup- 
posed that  the  execution  of  his  mother  would  naturally 
drive  him  to  an  alliance  with  Spain,  but  James,  al- 
though “he  blustered  at  first  under  the  sting  of  the  in- 
sult that  had  been  offered  him,”  was  soon  pacified,  reflect- 
ing upon  the  necessity  of  a friendly  relation  with  Eliz- 
abeth if  he  would  maintain  his  chance  for  the  English 
throne.  Accordingly,  James  lent  his  assistance  to  Eliz-  , 
abeth  in  the  preparations  to  repel  the  attack  of  the  Span-  , 
ish  armada.  Still  more  gracious  seemed  the  attitude  of 
James  towards  the  Puritans  on  his  return  from  Norway 
(15*9),  whither  he  had  gone  to  espouse  princess  Anne, 
the  second  daughter  of  Frederick  II,  king  of  Denmark. 
At  the  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Presby- 
terians in  1590  he  attended  and  spoke  highly  of  their  es- 
tablishment, and  in  1592  he  caused,  by  an  act  of  Parlia- 
ment, the  establishment  of  the  Presbyterian  Church  as 
a national  form  of  religion.  This  action  the  Scottish 
Church  regarded  as  their  true  charter,  but  they  soon 
learned  that  James  had  only  favored  them  because  out- 
ward circumstances  had  necessitated  this  course,  and 
that  inwardly  he  had  changed  to  an  avowed  admirer 
of  episcopacy,  and  inclined  even  towards  popery;  “so 
that  the  alliance  of  Church  and  State  in  this  case  was 
one  of  a very  frangible  nature.”  To  make  matters 
worse,  both  parties  cherished  the  loftiest  opinions  of 
their  powers  and  rights.  Various  unsuccessful  treason- 
able attempts  against  the  government  had  kept  the 
people  in  a high  pressure  of  excitement,  and  when  it 
was  ascertained  that  these  attempts  were  supported, 
if  not  instigated,  by  the  court  and  nobility  of  Spain, 
having  for  their  especial  object  the  intimidation  of  the 
irresolute  monarch,  and  the  re-establishment  of  Roman- 
ism, first  in  Scotland,  and  finally  in  England  also,  the 
people  desired  the  severe  punishment  of  the  traitors. 
Janies,  however,  inflicted  only  a very  mild  punishment, 
and  the  dissatisfied  multitude  began  loudly  to  condemn 
the  policy  of  their  king.  The  Church  also  criticised 
James’s  course,  and  a contest  ensued  that  assumed  verv 
much  the  appearance  of  the  commencement  of  a civil 
war.  Nearly  all  the  aristocracy  and  the  upper  classes, 
however,  were  with  the  king;  and  by  an  unusual  exer- 
tion of  vigor  and  firmness,  very  seldom  manifested  in 
his  personal  history,  James  was  enabled  not  only  com- 
pletely to  crush  the  insurrection,  but  to  turn  the  occa- 
sion to  account  in  bringing  the  Church  into  full  subjec- 
tion to  the  civil  authority.  In  the  course  of  the  follow- 
ing year,  159N,  the  substance  of  episcopacy,  which 
James  by  this  time  had  come  to  espouse  openly,  and  in 
which  he  was  governed  by  the  maxim  “No  bishop,  no 
king,”  was  restored,  in  a political  sense,  by  seats  in 
Parliament  being  given  to  about  fifty  ecclesiastics  on 
the  royal  nomination.  Even  the  General  Assembly  was 
gained  over  to  acquiesce  in  this  great  constitutional 
change. 

Ry  the  death  of  Elizabeth  in  1603  James  finally 
reached  the  object  for  which  he  had  striven  for  many 
years,  and  which  had  induced  him  even  to  court  the  ' 
favor  of  the  murderer  of  Ids  own  mother.  On  March  ' 
24  he  succeeded  to  the  throne  of  England,  and  by  vir- 
tue of  tins  act  became  spiritual  bead  of  the  Church  of 
England.  “ That  Church  had  already  enjoyed  the  honor 
of  having  the  grossest  of  voluptuaries  for  its  supreme  ' 
bead;  it  was  nojv  to  enjoy  the  honor  of  having  the  ! 


greatest  liar,  and  one  of  the  greatest  drunkards  of  his 
age,  in  the  same  position”  (Skeats).  As  in  the  Church 
of  Scotland  the  contest  had  been  waged  between  Ro- 
manists and  Protestants  for  the  favor  of  the  throne,  so 
in  England  the  Established  Church,  the  Episcopal,  and 
the  Puritans  were  arrayed  against  each  other,  and 
James  was  called  upon  to  settle  the  dispute.  Biased  in 
favor  of  the  episcopacy,  James,  however,  decided  on  a 
conference  of  the  two  parties,  anxious  to  display  his 
“proficiency  in  theology,”  and  “determined  on  giving 
both  sides  an  opportunity  of  applauding  his  polemical 
skill,  and  making  his  chosen  line  of  conduct  at  least  ap- 
pear to  result  from  partial  inquiry”  (Baxter,  Engl.  Ck. 
History , p.  550).  As  yet  no  separation  had  taken  place, 
neither  had  the  Puritans  even  renounced  episcopacy, 
nor  did  they  question  regal  supremacy;  they  only  ob- 
jected to  being  bound  against  the  dictates  of  their  con- 
science to  the  observance  of  certain  performances;  they 
desired  purity  of  doctrine,  good  pastors,  a reform  in 
Church  government  and  in  the  Book  of  Common  Pray- 
er; in  short,  a removal  of  all  usages  which  savored  of 
Romanism.  A conference  (q.  v.)  was  consequently  as- 
sembled at  Hampton  Court  in  January,  1604,  and  the 
points  of  difference  discussed  in  James's  presence,  he 
himself  taking,  as  might  have  been  expected,  a con- 
spicuous and  mosfr  undignified  part.  “ Church  writers, 
in  dealing  with  this  subject,  have  felt  compelled  to  em- 
ploy language  of  shame  and  indignation  at  the  conduct 
of  the  king  and  the  bishops  of  this  period,  which  a Non- 
conformist would  almost  hesitate  to  use”  (Skeats).  Oil 
the  episcopal  side  appeared  archbishop  Whitgift,  assist- 
ed by  bishops  Bancroft,  Bilson,  and  others ; on  the  side 
of  the  Puritans  appeared  four  divines,  headed  by  the 
celebrated  Dr.  Reynolds,  at  that  time  president  of  Cor- 
pus Christi  College,  Oxford.  “ It  is  obvious,  from  the 
whole  proceedings,  that  the  conference  was  summoned 
for  a purpose  opposed  to  its  ostensible  aim.  It  was  not 
intended  to  bring  the  two  parties  in  the  Church  into  har- 
mony, but  to  give  occasion  for  casting  out  one  of  them” 
(Skeats).  The  attitude  of  the  king  pleased  the  church 
men,  and  “ the  prelates  accepted  him  with  devout  grat- 
itude. The  more  his  character  became  revealed  to 
them,  the  greater  was  their  satisfaction.  When  he  al- 
most swore  at  the  Puritans,  Whitgift  declared  that  his 
majesty  spoke  hv  the  especial  assistance  of  God’s  Spirit 
(comp.  Baxter,  Ck.  llist.  of  England,  p.  559),  and  Bancroft 
that  he  was  melted  with  joy,  for  that,  since  Christ’s 
time,  such  a king  had  not  been.  When  he  drivelled 
they  held  up  their  hands  in  amaze  at  his  wisdom.” 
Indeed,  it  seems  that  “ the  two  parties  fully  understood 
each  other.  James  had  quite  sufficient  cunning  to  de- 
tect the  ambitious  designs  of  the  prelates,  and  the  prel- 
ates had  sufficient  learning,  and  sufficient  knowledge  of 
the  theory  c»f  morals,  to  know  that  they  were  dealing 
with  a dissembler  and  a fool.  But  it  served  their  pur- 
poses to  play  into  each  other’s  hands.  The  king  could 
put  down  Puritanism  in  the  Church,  and  ‘ harry’  all 
Brownists  and  Anabaptists  out  of  the  land,  and  the  bish- 
ops, in  their  turn,  could  exalt  the  supremacy  of  the 
monarch”  (Skeats).  • But,  as  if  the  ungenerous  and  un- 
gracious action  of  the  king  had  not  yet  reached  the  cli- 
max, the  Hampton  Court  Conference  Convocation  met 
in  the  year  following,  and  framed  a new  set  of  canons 
to  insure  conformity.  “ These  laws — laws  so  far  as  the 
clergy  are  concerned — still  deface  the  constitution  and 

character  of  the  English  Episcopalian  Church They 

are  now  little  else  than  monuments  of  a past  age  of  in- 
tolerance, and  of  the  combined  immobility  and  timidity 
of  the  ecclesiastical  establishments  of  the  present  day. 
Old  bloodhounds  of  the  Church,  with  their  teeth  drawn 
and  their  force  exhausted,  they  are  gazed  at  with  as 
much  contempt  as  they  once  excited  fear”  (Skeats). 
Baxter  (p.  563)  says  of  these  laws,  “ Some  of  them  have 
become  obsolete,  others  inoperative  through  counter  leg- 
islation; but  no  consistent  clergyman  can  forget  that 
they  constitute  the  rule  of  his  pledged  obedience,  al- 
though there  may  be  cases  in  which  attention  to  the 


JAMES  I 


763 


JAMES  I 


spirit  Hither  than  the  letter  will  best  insure  the  object  | 
of  their  enactment.”  But  some  good  sprang  also  from  j 
the  Hampton  Court  Conference;  results  which  none 
probably  had  anticipated.  “ Reynolds,  the  Puritan,  had  ’ 
suggested  a new  translation  of  the  Bible  by  his  majes- 
ty’s special  sanction  and  authority.  The  vanity  of  the 
king  was  touched,  and  the  great  work  was  ordered  to 
be  executed.”  See  English  Versions.  But  what, 
perhaps,  decided  him  in  his  course,  if  decision  could 
ever  become  manifest  in  the  actions  of  James  I,  to  iden- 
tify himseif  wholly  with  the  Episcopalians,  was  the 
gunpowder  plot  (q.  v.),  which  was  maturing  about  this  j 
time  (1604-5).  it  exterminated  in  James  the  last  ves- 
tiges  of  favor  for  Romanism  when  he  found  that  from  j 
Rome  he  never  could  expect  anything  but  a death-war- 
rant unless  the  English  Church  changed  to  a Roman  j 
Catholic  State  Church.  And  if  James  had  declared  in 
Parliament  in  1G04  “that  he  had  never  any  intention 
of  granting  toleration  to  the  Catholics,”  he  could  now  , 
be  justified  in  adding  “that  he  would  drive  every  one  | 
of  them  from  the  land,”  as  he  did  threaten  to  do  towards  I 
all  Nonconformists.  As  if  the  conspiracy,  which  had 
fortunately  failed,  was  not  worthy  the  censure  even  of  j 
Rome,  but  deserved  commendation,  one  of  the  principal  j 
leaders,  the  Jesuit  Garnet,  was  even  canonized  by  the. 
Roman  court,  of  course  not  openly  on  the  strength  of  j 
his  assistance  in  the  diabolical  project,  but  “ on  the  faith 
of  a pretended  miracle , his  face  having,  it  was  said,  been 
seen  in  a straw  sprinkled  with  his  blood.”  Thus  Rome  j 
“ did  its  very  best  to  identify,  or  at  least  to  confound, 
one  of  the  most  diabolical  projects  ever  conceived,  with  [ 
the  evidences  of  transcendent  sanctity”  (Baxter,  p.  5G5),  j 
and  for  Rome’s  treachery  the  honest  Puritans  of  Eng-  | 
land  were  made  to  suffer.  The  policy  of  the  king  (who 
by  this  time  had  assumed  the  title  of  king  of  Great 
Britain)  was,  however,  not  to  be  confined  to  England,  i 
In  Scotland  also  the  power  of  the  Puritans  was  to  be 
utterly  broken,  and  the  episcopate  to  be  re-established. 
In  August,  1G0G,  a Parliament  was  held  at  Perth  which 
had  this  object  in  view,  and  the  decision  arrived  at,  by 
a union  of  the  nobility  and  the  prclatical  faction,  to 
erect  seventeen  bishopries,  and  to  bestow  on  these  new- 
ly-created prelates  the  benefices,  honors,  and  privileges 
heretofore  awarded  to  those  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church.  After  having  properly  disposed  of  the  leaders 
of  the  Scottish  Church,  a General  Assembly  was  uncon-  j 
stitutionally  convened  at  Linlithgow  on  Dec.  10,  1G0G.  i 
As  most  of  the  synods  opposed  its  acts,  new  persecutions  I 
were  the  issue.  Feb.  1G,  1610,  the  king  established  two 
ecclesiastical  tribunals,  to  be  presided  over  by  the  two 
archbishops,  and  designated  these  tribunals  as  “ Courts 
of  High  Commission,”  uniting  the  two  shortly  after 
their  establishment.  This  ecclesiastical  tribunal,  a sort 
of  Inquisition,  combined  the  attributes  of  a temporal 
and  spiritual  tribunal;  but  it  was  bound  to  no  definite 
laws,  and  was  armed  with  the  united  terrors  of  civil  and 
ecclesiastical  despotism.  On  June  8,  1610,  a meeting 
was  finally  held  at  Glasgow,  and  there,  by  means  of 
bribes,  which  are.  said  to  have  reached  the  not  inconsid- 
eralJe  sum  of  .£300,000  sterling,  the  prclatical  measures 
were  carried,  and  all  opposition  nominally  overcome. 
But  the  people  by  no  means  seemed  ready  to  coincide 
with  the  opinion  of  the  king,  and  many  were  the  dis- 
turbances that  prevailed  throughout  the  land.  What- 
ever work  had  to  be  done  to  further  the  royal  schemes 
was  done  quietly,  and  no  General  Assembly  met  until 
August,  1616,  this  time  held  at  Aberdeen,  and  especial- 
ly celebrated  in  the  history  of  Scotland  by  the  issue 
of  a new  confession  of  faith  projected  by  the  prelatical 
party,  and  which,  although  tolerably  orthodox,  was  re- 
markablv  at  variance  with  the  discipline  of  the  Estab- 
lished Church.  Affairs  assumed  another  and  more  seri- 
ous turn  in  the  summer  of  1G17,  when  James,  on  a visit 
which  he  paid  to  Scotland,  succeeded,  though  not  with- 
out great  difficulty,  in  securing  from  Parliament,  which 
he  had  newly  summoned,  as  well  as  from  the  General 
Assembly,  the  approbation  of  such  regulations  as,  along 


with  other  innovations  previously  made  since  his  acces- 
sion to  the  throne  of  England,  brought  the  Scottish 
Church — in  government,  in  ceremonies,  and  in  its  posi- 
tion in  relation  to  the  civil  power — very  nearly  to  the 
model  of  the  ecclesiastical  establishment  of  England. 
Change,  however,  as  the  king  might,  the  constitution 
and  ordinances,  almost  without  number,  published  again 
and  again,  public  opinion  by  no  means  altered  even  for 
a moment,  and  the  19th  century  still  finds  Scotland  true 
to  her  Puritanic  notions  of  the  lGth  century.  The  king 
had  succeeded  in  securing  the  adoption  of  the  “ five  arti 
cles  of  Perth"  (q.  v.);  he  had  succeeded  in  suppressing 
the  Scotch  Presbyterian  Church,  but  he  failed  to  con- 
quer it. 

In  England,  also,  the  shortsighted  policy  of  James 
now  brought  distrust  and  discredit.  The  execution  of 
Raleigh  and  the  denial  of  assistance  to  the  Protestant. 
Bohemians,  both  sacrifices  to  the  court  of  Spain,  the 
latter  even  at  the  expense  of  liis  son-in-law,  whom  the 
Bohemians  had  chosen  for  their  king,  hardly  justify 
Baxter  in  the  statement  that  king  James’s  object  was 
the  consolidation  of  the  Protestant  interests,  and  that 
“ his  treatment  of  the  Puritans  was  marked  by  a lenien- 
cy strongly  contrasting  with  the  more  vigorous  course 
adopted  by  his  predecessors,  and  naturally  occasioning 
a difference  of  opinion  as  to  its  wisdom  and  propriety” 
(p.  5G8).  If  toleration  was  the  policy  of  James  I,  it  did 
not  manifest  itself  against  the  Independents,  who,  “ after 
repeated  and  fruitless  applications  for  toleration”  (Bax- 
ter, ]>.  572),  were  obliged  to  go  to  distant  lands  to  find  a 
place  where  they  could  follow  the  dictates  of  their  con- 
science. Certainly  the  state  did  not  pay  the  expenses 
of  these  pilgrim  fathers  in  1619  because  they  were  Pu- 
ritans, but  simply  because  they  were  likely  to  settle  and 
to  cultivate  land  otherwise  almost  worthless.  In  1G24 
James  was  finally  driven,  both  by  the  opposition  of  Par- 
liament to  his  polity  in  seeking  a closer  alliance  with 
Spain  and  by  the  clamor  of  the.  people  for  a war  with 
that  country,  to  dispatch  an  army  into  Germany  to  ro 
cover  his  son-in-law’s  possessions.  But,  as  if  his  meas- 
ure of  tribulation  was  not  yet  full,  this  enterprise  proved 
a total  failure,  and  brought  discredit  upon  the  English 
name.  The  king  also  assumed  a ridiculous  attitude  on 
the  question  of  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath.  Roman 
Catholicism  is  wont  to  look  upon  Sunday  as  a holiday; 
the  Puritans,  however,  desired  it  observed  as  a Christian 
day  of  rest.  To  counteract  these  efforts,  James  publish- 
ed a “ Book  of  Sports,”  advising  the  people  that  Sunday 
was  not  to  be  a day  mainly  for  religious  rest  and  wor- 
ship, but  of  games  and  revels  (Skeats,  p.  47).  See  Sab- 
batarian Controversy.  This  reign,  so  detrimental 
to  the  interests  of  the  English  and  Scottish  State  and 
the  Church  of  Christ,  were  finally  brought  to  a termina  - 
tion by  the  death  of  James,  March  27.  1625.  Severe  as 
may  have  been  some  of  the  historians  who  have  written 
the  fate  of  this  king,  none  can  be  said  to  have  exagger- 
ated the  many  despicable  features  of  his  character;  and 
we  need  not  wonder  that  his  vacillating  course  towards 
his  subjects,  favoring  first  the  Puritans,  then  the  Epis- 
copalians; tightening  first  the  reins,  and  then  loosening 
them  against  the  Romanists — all  inspired,  not  by  the 
true  spirit  of  toleration,  but  by  artful  designs,  well  ena- 
ble us  to  repeat  of  him  Macaulay’s  judgment,  that  James 
I was  “ made  up  of  two  men — a witty,  well-read  scholar, 
who  wrote,  disputed,  and  harangued,  and  a nervous, 
drivelling  idiot  who  acted.” 

James  1 was  a voluminous  writer,  and,  though  he 
was  far  from  deserving  the  surname  which  the  flattery 
of  his  contemporaries  accorded  him,  “ Solomon  the  Sec- 
ond,” he  was  certainly  not  wholly  destitute  of  literary 
ability,  and,  had  he  pursued  a literary  life  instead  of 
governing  a state,  it  is  barely  possible  that  he  might 
have  earned  a much  higher  position  among  his  fellow- 
beings.  It  brings  to  mind  the  prophetic  utterance  of 
his  tutor,  that  James  was  better  fitted  to  be  a scholar 
than  a rider.  The  writings  of  James  which  deserve 
mention  here  are,  Fruitful  Meditation  upon  a part  of 


JAMES  II 


*76  4 


JAMES  II 


the  Revelation  of  St.John  (Lond.  1588) : — Dmmonologia, 
a dialogue  in  three  books  in  defence  of  the  belief  in 
Witches  (Lond.  I597,4to);  and  yet  the  king  withal  hes- 
itated not  to  punish  his  subjects  for  a like  faith : — Bo- 
oiXikov  Awpov;  instructions  to  his  son  Henry  (who 
died  Nov.  (5,  1612),  in  which  James  laid  down  his  opin- 
ions on  the  power  of  the  throne  over  the  State  and 
Church,  and  which,  for  the  doctrines  it  contained  on 
Church  government,  was  censured  as  libellous  bv  the 
Synod  of  St.  Andrew’s  (Lond.  1599) : — Triplici  Nodo  Tri- 
plex Cuneus,  an  apology  for  the  oath  of  allegiance  that 
James  exacted  of  his  Roman  Catholic  subjects,  which 
was  answered  by  cardinal  Ilellarmine,  and  produced  a 
long  controversy  and  many  other  publications  on  both 
sides,  for  an  account  of  which,  see  a note  by  Dr.  Birch 
in  the  Appendix  to  Harris’s  Life  of  James : — Protesta- 
tio  Antivorstia,  in  qua  rex  suam  exponit  senteatiam  de 
cotifeederatorum  ordinum  effect u et  actis  in  causa  Vorstii 
(London,  1612),  the  successor  of  Arminins  as  professor  of 
divinity  at  the  University  of  Leyden,  whom  he  accused 
of  heresy  [see  Vorstius],  etc.  A complete  edition  of 
his  works  was  published  in  folio  (London,  1616),  and  a 
Latin  translation  by  bishop  Monntaguc  in  1619.  A 
more  complete  edition  was  published  at  Frankfort-on- 
the-Main  in  folio  in  1689.  lie  is  also  said  to  have  writ- 
ten a metrical  version  of  the  Psalms,  completed  up  to 
the  31st  Psalm  (Oxf.  1631, 12mo).  See  James  Welwood, 
Memoirs  of  the  most  material  Transactions  in  England 
for  the  last  100  Years  preceding  the  Revolution  (London, 
1700,  8vo) ; Peyton,  Divine  Catastrophe  of  the  kingly 
Family  of  the  House  of  Stuart  (1731, 8vo);  Wilson,  Life 
and  Reign  of  King  .Tames  I (1653,  foL,  and  reprinted  in 
Bp.  Kennet’s  Complete  History,  vol.  ii);  Lingard,  History 
of  England,  vols.  viii  and  ix ; Baxter,  Ck.  Hist.  ch.  xiii; 
Collier,  Eccles.  Hist. ; llallam,  Constit.  Hist,  (see  Index) ; 
Raumer,  Gesch.  r.  Europe,  vol.  v;  Rudloff,  Gesch.  d.  Re- 
formation in  Schottland,  vol.  i;  Soame,  Elizabethean  His- 
tory, p.  515  sq.;  Skeats,  History  of  the  Free  Churches  of 
England,  p.  35  sq. ; Hunt  (the  Rev.  John),  Religious 
Thought  in  England  (Lond.  1870, 8vo),  voL  i,  ch.  ii  and  iii ; 
English  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Herzog,  Iteul-Encyldop.  vi.  381  sq. 
See  England  (Church  of);  Puritans.  (J.  II.  W.) 

James  II  of  England  and  VII  of  Scotland,  son 
of  Charles  I and  Henrietta  Maria,  was  born  October  15, 
1633.  In  1643  he  was  created  duke  of  Vork.  In  1648, 
during  the  civil  war,  which  resulted  in  the  decapita- 
tion of  his  father,  he  made  his  escape  to  Holland,  and 
thence  to  France,  where  his  mother  resided.  The  early 
education  of  the  duke  of  Yolrk  had,  by  the  wish  of  his 
father,  been  intrusted  to  Protestants,  but  his  mother,  a 
bigoted  Romanist,  now  improved  her  opportunity,  and 
the  young  prince  was  surrounded  by  Roman  Catholic 
influences,  and,  to  be  more  readily  inclined  to  Popery, 
was  assured  that  the  unfortunate  end  of  his  father  was 
due  only  to  his  strict  adherence  to  Protestantism,  and 
that  no  prince  could  hold  the  reins  of  government  suc- 
cessfully who  was  not  supported  by  Rome.  In  1652  he 
entered  the  French  army  under  general  Turenne,  and 
served  in  it  until  the  peace  concluded  with  Cromwell  (Oc- 
tober, 1655)  obliged  James  to  quit  the  territory  of  Louis 
XIV.  lie  was  then  offered  a position  in  the  army  of 
Spain,  which  he  accepted.  At  the  Restoration  (May, 
1660)  lie  returned  to  England,  and  was  immediately 
made  lord  high  admiral  of  England.  In  the  ensuing 
wars  with  Holland  (1664-1672),  which  arc  generally 
supposed  to  have  been  instigated  by  this  prince  and  his 
brother  for  the  especial  purpose  of  crushing  the  Dutch 
as  a Protestant  people,  and  to  disable  them  from  inter- 
fering with  the  re-establishment  of  popery  in  England, 
to  which  they  themselves  inclined,  he  twice  commanded 
the  English  fleet,  and  was  eminently  successful.  In 
1660  he  married  Anne,  daughter  of  lord'chancellor  Ilyde, 
and  the  reason  generally  assigned  for  this  act  is  that  the 
lady  was  far  gone  with  child  when  the  marriage  was 
contracted.  But  she  lived  only  a few  years  (she  died 
March  31,  1671),  suffering,  it  is  supposed,  from  neglect, 
if  not  tne  positive  ill-usage  of  her  husband,  who,  not- 


withstanding his  professions  of  zeal  for  religion,  in- 
dulged in  a large  share  of  the  reigning  licentiousness, 
anti  kept  a mistress  almost  from  the  date  of  his  mar- 
riage. A few  months  before  her  death  the  duchess  had 
signed  a declaration  of  her  reconciliation  to  the  ancient 
religion  (Romanism,  of  course),  and  shortly  afterward 
the  duke  also  publicly  avowed  his  conversion  to  popery, 
an  act  which,  although  his  concealed  inclinations  had 
been  long  suspected,  did  not  fail  to  create  a great  sen- 
sation, especially  as,  from  his  brother’s  want  of  issue, 
he  was  now  looked  upon  as  Charles’s  probable  succes- 
sor to  the  throne  of  England.  On  the  passage,  in  the 
l>eginning  of  1673,  of  the  Test  Act,  which  required  all 
officers,  civil  and  military,  to  receive  the  sacrament 
according  to  the  usage  of  the  Established  Church, 
the  duke  Mras,  of  course,  obliged  to  resign  the  com- 
mand of  the  fleet  and  the  office  of  lord  high  admiral. 
These  duties  were,  however,  assigned  to  a board  of  com- 
missioners, consisting  of  his  friends  and  dependants,  so 
that  he  still  virtually  remained  at  the  head  of  the  navai 
affairs.  On  Nov.  21, 1673,  he  married  again ; this  time 
a Roman  Catholic  princess,  Mary  Beatrix  Eleanora, 
daughter  of  Alphonso  IV,  duke  of  Modena,  a lady  then 
only  in  her  fifteenth  year. 

During  the  great  irritation  against  the  Roman  Cath- 
olics which  followed  the  publication  of  the  Titus  Oates 
(q.  v.)  popish  plot  in  1678-79,  the  duke  of  York,  by  the 
advice  of  king  Charles  11.  quitted  England  and  took  up 
his  residence  on  the  Continent.  While  he  was  absent 
efforts  were  made  to  exclude  him  from  the  throne,  which 
would  have  been  successful  had  not  Parliament  suddenly 
been  prorogued  (31  ay  27,  1679).  In  1680  he  returned 
again  to  England,  but  so  great  was  the  opposition  to- 
wards him  that  Charles  was  obliged  to  send  him  down 
to  govern  Scotland.  The  odium  in  which  the  duke  of 
York  now  stood  among  the  English  was  further  mani- 
fest by  a second  attempt  to  pass  in  Parliament  a bill 
excluding  him  from  the  right  of  succession  to  the  throne, 
which  again  failed  by  another  prorogation  of  the  coun- 
cil of  the  nation.  This  time,  no  doubt,  the  effort  was 
mainly  the  result  of  the  discreditable  relation  which  the 
prince  sustained  towards  the  Meal-tub  Plot,  an  attempt 
on  the  part  of  his  co-religionists  to  counteract — and  in 
j this  they  ivere  grievously  disappointed — the  effect  of 
the  Titus  Oates  plot  discoveries.  In  1682,  when  Charles 
was  involved  in  difficulties  with  his  concubine,  the  duke 
of  York  was  invited  over,  and  he  improved  the  opportu- 
nity, and  knew  so  well  how  to  make  himself  an  indis- 
pensable counsellor  of  his  brother,  that,  in  spite  of  the 
Test  Act,  he  became  (much  more  than  Charles  himself) 
“the  mainspring  and  director  of  the  conduct  of  public 
affairs.”  On  the  death  of  Charles  II,  Feb.  6,  1685,  he 
succeeded  to  the  throne,  strangely  enough,  without  the 
least  opposition.  His  pledge  to  the  people  was,  “ I shall 
make  it  my  endeavor  to  preserve  this  government,  both 
in  Church  and  State,  as  it  is  now  by  law  established,”  a 
declaration  which  seemed  rather  necessary  from  a disci- 
ple of  popery.  It  must,  however,  also  be  acknowledged 
that  James  II  “began  his  reign  with  a frank  and  open 
profession  of  his  religion,  for  the  first  Sunday  after  his 
accession  he  went  publicly  to  mass,  and  obliged  father 
Huddleston,  who  attended  his  brother  in  his  last  hours, 

I to  declare  to  the  world  that  he  died  a Roman  Catholic” 
(Neale,  Puritans,  Harper's  edition,  ii,  315).  But  if  the 
people,  though  hesitatingly,  yet  tacitly,  submitted  to 
the  freedom  of  the  king  to  worship  according  to  the 
dictates  of  his  conscience,  and  even  suffered  Roman- 
ism, the  very  name  of  which,  just  at  this  time,  was  de- 
spised by  nearly  every  English  subject,  to  claim  their 
ruler  for  its  convert,  yet  his  display  of  the  theor)7  that 
a king  was  not  subject  to  the  criticisms  of  his  peo- 
ple— in  short,  his  theory  of  absolute  supremacy  soon 
aroused  the  nation  from  their  lethargy,  though  it  did 
not  at  once  appear  that  the  community  would  ever  seek 
to  relieve  itself  from  the  calamity  which  it  had  just  in- 
curred. Greater  still  became  the  anxiety  of  the  nation 
| when  it  appeared  that,  “ in  spite  of  his  own  solemn  en- 


JAMES  II 


765 


JAMES  II 


gagements  to  govern  constitutionally,  and  heedless  of 
ominous  intimations  which  reached  him,  in  the  shape 
of  addresses,  that  the  religion  of  his  subjects  was  dearer 
to  them  than  their  lives,  he  proceeded  to  carry  out  his 
projects  with  a recklessness  amounting  to  infatuation” 
(Baxter,  Ch.  Hist.  p.  G37).  Bight  in  his  first  measures, 
king  James  showed,  says  Hume  (Hist,  o f England , Har- 
per’s edition,  vi,  28G),  “that  either  he  was  not  sincere  in 
liis  professions  of  attachment  to  the  laws,  or  that  he  en- 
tertained so  lofty  an  idea  of  his  own  legal  power  that 
even  his  utmost  sincerity  would  tend  very  little  to  se- 
cure the  liberties  of  the  people.”  Not  satisfied  with  his 
avowed  confession  of  Romanism,  he  even  made  unneces- 
sary and  offensive  displays  of  his  religious  principles, 
and  thereby  greatly  wounded  the  pride  of  his  subjects. 
The  mass  was  openly  celebrated  with  great  pomp  at 
Westminster  in  Passion  Week  of  this  year  (1(585);  an 
agent  was  sent  to  Rome  to  announce  the  king's  submis- 
sion to  the  so-called  vicar  of  Christ ; a close  alliance  was 
entered  into  with  France;  and  it  was  even  generally 
hinted  that  “the  Church  of  England  was  in  principle  > 
so  closely  allied  to  the  Roman  Catholic  that  it  would  not 
be  difficult  to  prepare  the  way  for  the  readmission  of  the 
English  into  the  bosom  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church” 
(comp.  Sir  John  Dairy  mple,  Memoirs  of  Great  Britain , 
Append,  pt.  i,  p.  100-113;  Fox,  Hist,  of  early  Part  of 
the  Reign  of  James  II).  All  this,  too,  was  done  at  a 
time  when  “ there  was  among  the  English  a strong  con- 
viction that  the  Roman  Catholic,  where  the  interests  of 
his  religion  were  concerned,  thought  himself  free  from 
all  the  ordinary  rules  of  morality ; nay,  that  he  thought 
it  meritorious  to  violate  those  rides,  if  by  so  doing  he 
could  avert  injury  or  reproach  from  the  Church  of  which 
he  was  a member ;”  at  a time  when  “ Roman  Catholic 
casuists  of  great  eminence  had  written  in  defence  of 
equivocation,  of  mental  reservation,  of  perjury,  and  even 
of  assassirfation,”  and  the  fruits  of  this  odious  school  of 
sophists  were  seen  in  the  massacre  of  St.  Bartholomew, 
the  murder  of  the  first  William  of  Orange,  the  murder 
of  Henry  III  of  France,  the  numerous  conspiracies  which 
had  been  formed  against  the  life  of  Elizabeth,  anil,  above 
all,  the  Gunpowder  Plot,  and  when  all  these  could  con- 
stantly be  cited  “as  instances  of  the  close  connection 
between  vicious  theory  and  vicious  practice” — a series 
of  crimes  which,  it  was  alleged,  bad  every  one  of  them 
been  prompted  or  applauded  by  Roman  Catholic  priests 
(comp.  Macaulay,  Hist,  of  England , Harper’s  edit.,  ii,  5 
sq.).  It  was  certainly  sheer  madness  (and  we  need  not 
wonder  that  the  so-claimed  successor  of  Peter  even  so 
declared  it)  to  still  further  aggravate  the  opposition  of 
his  subjects  by  persecution  for  religious  belief.  Him- 
self anxious  to  obtain  for  the  members  of  his  own  con- 
fession complete  toleration,  which,  after  all,  was  only 
“natural  and  right,”  it  seems  simply  preposterous  to 
find  him  persecuting  the  Puritans.  Almost  immediate- 
ly after  his  accession  to  the  throne  James  II  convoked 
the  Parliament  of  Scotland,  where  the  majority  of  the 
population  was  firmly  attached  to  the  Presbyterian  dis- 
cipline, and  where  prelacy  was  abhorred  “ as  an  unscrip- 
tural  and  as  a foreign  institution.”  and  demanded  new 
laws  against  the  unruly  Presbyterians,  who  already 
“ closely  associated  the  episcopal  polity  with  all  the 
evils  produced  by  twenty-five  years  of  corrupt  and  cruel 
maladministration.”  In  a slavish  spirit,  the  Scottish 
Parliament  complied  with  the  royal  request,  forbidding 
inuler  the  death  penalty  preaching  in  any  Presbyterian 
conventicle  whatever,  and  even  attendance  on  such  a 
conventicle  in  the  open  air  (May  8,  1G85\  A short 
time  after,  the  Parliament  of  England  also  was  con- 
voked (May  19),  which,  as  readily  as  the  Scottish, 
complied  with  the  demands  of  the  king,  but,  to  his 
great  sorrow,  nevertheless  evinced  the  possibility  of 
opposition  to  popery,  for  which  he  was  anxious  to  se- 
cure concessions.  But  while  both  Parliaments  were  thus 
slavishly  submitting  to  the  wishes  of  the  absolutist, 
the  countries  were  invaded,  and  this  afforded  the  king 
a favorable  pretext  for  the  introduction  of  Romanists 


into  the  ranks  of  the  army,  in  spite  of  the  legal  test  of 
conformity  to  the  Established  Church  which  was  re- 
quired to  be  taken  by  every  person  filling  any  public 
office;  and  when,  after  a successful  suppression  of  the 
insurrectionary  attempts,  the  king  reassembled  Parlia- 
ment in  November,  he  not  only  stated  that  these  Roman 
Catholics  would  now  be  continued,  but  requested  extra 
supplies  for  the  increase  of  the  army,  evidently  for  the 
purpose  of  adding  largely  men  of  his  own  confession 
to  the  rank  and  file  of  the  army ; and  when  the  people 
seemed  unwilling  to  grant  this  request,  the  king  per- 
emptorily prorogued  Parliament,  after  it  had  sat  a little 
more  than  a week,  James,  however,  was  determined 
to  continue  the  policy  initiated,  and  ordered  patents  to 
be  made  out  under  the  great  seal  for  every  Roman  Cath- 
olic officer  that  he  had  appointed,  and  upon  the  same 
principle  continued  the  benefices  of  some  Protestant  di- 
vines who  claimed  to  have  been  converted  to  Roman- 
ism. Quite  different  continued  to  be  his  dealings  with 
the  dissenters.  Everywhere  they  were  made  to  feel  “ the 
weight  of  the  arm  of  the  conqueror,”  especially  in  the 
provinces  that  had  lately  been  subject  to  invasion,  to 
which  the  Papists,  as  well  as  High-C’hurchmen,  claim- 
ed that  dissenters  had  lent  their  aid.  “Thus  were  the 
Nonconformists  ground  between  the  Papists  on  the  one 
hand  and  the  Iligh-Church  clergy  on  the  other,  while 
the  former  made  their  advantage  of  the  latter,  conclud- 
ing that  when  the  dissenters  were  destroyed,  or  thor- 
oughly exasperated,  and  the  clergy  divided  among  them- 
selves, they  should  be  a match  for  the  hierarchy,  and  ca- 
pable of  establishing  that  religion  which  they  had  been 
so  long  aiming  to  introduce”  (Neale,  Puritans,  ii,  319). 
Roman  Catholic  churches  were  everywhere  opened,  Jes- 
uits and  regular  priests  came  in  numbers  from  abroad, 
schools  were  opened  under  their  control  in  the  English 
metropolis  even,  men  were  forbidden  to  speak  disre- 
spectfully of  the  king’s  religion,  and  all  seemed  turning 
in  favor  of  Rome,  when  at  length  the  eyes  of  the  clergy 
of  the  State  Church  were  opened,  and  they  deemed  it 
high  time  to  preach  against  the  dangerous  tendencies. 
An  open  rupture  with  the  State  Church  had  become  inev- 
itable ; for  the  king,  having  been  made  acquainted  with 
the  position  which  the  clergy  of  the  Church  of  England 
had  taken  to  recover  the  people,  who  were  deserting 
their  churches  in  numbers,  and  to  rescue  the  Protestant 
religion  from  the  danger  into  which  it  had  fallen,  sent 
circular  letters  to  the  bishops,  accompanying  them  with 
an  order  to  prohibit  the  inferior  clergy  from  preaching 
on  the  controverted  points  of  religion.  It  could  not  be 
otherwise  than  that  these  persevering  attempts  of  his 
against  the  established  religion,  as  well  as  upon  the  law 
of  the  land,  should  eventually  involve  him  in  a dispute 
with  the  Episcopalians,  to  be  productive  of  the  most  im- 
portant consequences.  Finding  that  to  carry  his  schemes 
in  favor  of  Romanism  he  must  strengthen  himself  by 
the  opponents  of  the  State  Church,  he  suddenly,  in  the 
beginning  of  April,  1G87,  published  the  famous  Declara- 
. tion  of  Indulgence,  a paper  at  once  suspending  and  dis- 
| pensing  with  all  the  penal  laws  against  dissenters,  and 
all  tests,  including  even  the  oaths  of  allegiance  and  su- 
j premaey,  heretofore  required  of  persons  appointed  to  of- 
| fices  civil  or  military ; but  at  the  same  time  he  repeated 
his  promise,  “already  often  repeated  and  often  violated, 
that  he  would  protect  the  Established  Church  in  the 
enjoyment  of  her  legal  rights.”  At  first  the  dissenters 
hailed  the  seeming  approach  of  a new  a?ra,  and  great 
were  the  rejoicings  in  behalf  of  a declaration  which  se- 
cured them  liberty  of  conscience,  and  threw  open  the 
doors  of  the  prison  that  had  so  long  barred  them ; and 
the  king  felt  not  a little  encouraged  in  his  new-chosen 
course  when  addresses  came  to  him  from  some  of  the 
i dissenters  (though  they  afterwards  proved  to  have  rep- 
resented only  a small  faction  ; comp.  Neale,  Puritans,  ii, 
328).  Emboldened,  he  immediately  showed  his  predi- 
lections for  his  own  Church.  In  Ireland,  all  places  of 
power  under  the  crown  were  put  into  the  hands  of  Ro- 
manists. The  earl  of  Castlemaine  was  at  the  same  time 


766 


JAMES  II 


JAMES  II 

publicly  sent  as  embassador  extraordinary  to  Rome  to 
express  the  king’s  obeisance  to  the  pope,  and  to  effect 
the  reconcilement  of  the  kingdom  with  the  “holy  see,” 
In  return  the  pope  sent  a nuncio  to  England,  who  re- 
sided openly  in  London  during  the  remainder  of  the 
reign,  and  was  solemnly  received  at  court,  in  the  face 
of  the  act  of  Parliament  declaring  any  communication 
with  the  pope  to  be  high  treason.  Four  Roman  Cath- 
olic bishops  were  consecrated  in  the  king’s  chapel,  and 
sent  to  exercise  the  episcopal  function,  each  in  his  par- 
ticular diocese.  In  Scotland  and  England,  as  well  as 
in  Ireland,  offices  of  all  kinds,  both  in  the  army  and 
in  the  state,  were  now  tilled  with  Roman  Catholics; 
even  those  of  the  ministers  and  others  who  had  shown 
themselves  disposed  to  go  furthest  along  with  the  king 
were  dismissed,  or  visibly  lost  his  favor,  if  they  refused 
to  conform  to  the  ancient  religion.  At  last  James’s 
“eye  was  delighted  with  the  aspect  of  catholicity  im- 
parted to  his  metropolis  by  the  spectacle  of  monks  trav- 
ersing its  streets  in  the  habits  of  their  respective  orders , 
lie  was  gratified  by  the  presence  of  an  Italian  prelate, 
D’Adda,  as  nuncio  from  the  pope ; and  he  entertained  a 
sanguine  hope  of  obtaining  a Parliament  elected  under 
the  new  corporation  charters,  which  should  furnish  a 
majority  of  his  adherents,  while  the  lords  were  to  be 
swamped  by  a creation  of  peers  compliant  with  his 
wishes.  The  Nonconformists,  he  calculated,  would  sup- 
port his  views  as  long  as  their  support  would  be  impor- 
tant, and  he  was  weak  enough  to  imagine  that  his  dec- 
laration of  indulgence  placed  him  in  favorable  contrast 
with  the  French  monarch,  to  whose  exiled  Protestant 
subjects,  since  the  revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes 
(1684),  England  was  affording  its  hospitality,  not  aware 
that  his  subjects  were  sufficiently  acquainted  with  the 
genius  and  tactics  of  his  religion  to  know  that  indul- 
gence and  persecution  were  but  indifferent  instruments 
for  its  propagation,  adapted  to  the  different  circum- 
stances of  an  ascendant  or  a declining  Protestantism — 
one  and  the  same  spirit  actuating  the  sovereigns  of 
France  and  of  Great  Britain,  in  pursuance  of  common 
religions,  in  subservience  to  similar  political  objects” 
(Baxter,  Ch.  Ilist.  p.  639).  The  dissenters,  in  particu- 
lar, soon  learned  to  comprehend  the  reality  of  the  situa- 
tion— that  a league  of  the  court  and  Romanism  was  de- 
pendent on  their  assistance  for  its  success  to  overawe 
the  Episcopalians  and  secure  victory  to  popery;  and 
when  they  did  comprehend  the  scheme,  “notwithstand- 
ing the  renewed  sufferings  to  which  they  might  be  ex- 
posed, they  took  part  against  it.  . . . Independents, 
Baptiste,  and  Quakers  vied  with  each  other  in  showing 
lhem  (the  Episcopal  clergy)  their  sympathy.  . . . None 
of  them — not  even  Penn  (q.  v.) — was  in  favor  of  the  tol- 
eration of  Roman  Catholicism.  No  man  who  valued 
the  civil  liberties  of  England  dreamed  of  giving  a foot- 
hold to  the  professors  of  that  intolerant  creed.  Three 
generations  had  not  sufficed  to  wipe  out.  the  memory  of 
its  curse  on  England.  Thousands  still  living  could  rec- 
ollect the  Vaudois  massacres,  and  the  streets  of  London 
were  at  that  moment  crowded  with  sufferers  from  the 
revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes”  (Skeats,  p.  83).  The 
Nonconformists,  almost  as  a body,  refused  to  recognise 
the  legality  of  the  indulgence,  mainly,  of  course,  be- 
cause they  saw  in  the  encroachment  against  the  law  a 
prerogative  which,  if  not  resisted,  might  lead  ultimate- 
ly to  the  establishment  of  popery  as  the  religion  of  the 
state.  But,  whatever  were  the  reasons  of  the  dissent- 
ers, the  attempt  of  the  king  to  gain  their  support  evi- 
dently failed,  and  it  became  daily  more  apparent  that 
the  war  which  the  king  had  opened  with  the  Church 
must  soon  reach  a climax.  An  attempt  had  already 
been  made  to  compel  the  University  of  (’am bridge  to 
confer  a degree  of  master  of  arts  on  a Benedictine  monk. 
This  was  not  persevered  in;  but  soon  after,  a vacancy 
having  happened  in  the  presidency  of  Magdalen  Col- 
lege, Oxford,  the  vice-president  and  fellows  were  order- 
ed bv  royal  mandate  to  fill  it.  up  by  the  election  ofa  per- 
son named  Farmer,  a late  convert  to  popery  Cfor  whom 


was  afterwards  substituted  Parker,  bishop  of  Oxford, 
who  avowed  himself  a Romanist  at  heart),  and  on  their 
refusal  were  cited  before  an  ecclesiastical  commission 
and  expelled.  See  Hough,  John  (1).  Determined,  if 
possible,  to  gain  over  the  Nonconformists,  whose  aid  he 
evidently  needed  to  earn"  out  successfully  his  projects, 
James  published,  April  27,  1688,  a second  declaration  of 
indulgence  to  dissenters,  and  commanded  it  to  he  read 
by  the  clergy  immediately  after  divine  sendee  in  all  the 
churches  of  England.  On  this,  Bancroft,  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  and  six  bishops — Lloyd  of  St.  Asaph,  Ken 
of  Bath  and  Wells,  Turner  of  Ely,  Lake  of  Chichester, 
White  of  Peterborough,  and  Trelawnev  of  Bristol — met 
in  the  archbishop’s  palace  at  Lambeth,  May  18,  and 
drew  up  a petition  to  the  king,  representing  their  aver- 
sion to  obey  the  order,  for  many  reasons,  and  especially 
because  the  declaration  was  founded  upon  such  a dis- 
pensing power  as  Parliament  had  often  declared  illegal. 
For  this  they  were  all,  June  8,  sent  to  the  Tower,  on 
the  charge  of  publishing  a false,  fictitious,  malicious, 
pernicious,  and  seditious  libel.  The  history  of  the  trial, 
and  the  verdict  of  Not  guilty  by  the  jury,  June  29, 1688, 
which  the  nation  approved,  and  which  was  hailed  by 
the  whole  kingdom  as  a great  national  triumph,  forms 
one  of  the  most  glowing  passages  in  the  splendid  narra- 
tive of  Macaulay  (ii,  293).  This  defeat,  however,  in  no 
degree  checked  for  a moment  the  infatuated  king.  To 
quote  the  summary  of  Hume,  “He  struck  out  two  of 
the  judges,  Powel  and  Holloway,  who  had  appeared  to 
favor  the  bishops ; he  issued  orders  to  prosecute  all  those 
clergymen  who  had  not  read  his  declaration,  that  is,  the 
whole  Church  of  England,  two  hundred  excepted ; he 
sent  a mandate  to  the  new  fellows  whom  he  had  ob- 
truded on  Magdalen  College  to  elect  for  president,  in 
the  room  of  Parker,  lately  deceased,  one  Gifford,  a doc- 
tor of  the  Sorbonnc,and  titular  bishop  ofMadaura;  and 
he  is  even  said  to  have  nominated  the  same  person  to 
the  see  of  Oxford.”  It  was  in  the  midst  of  this  great 
contest  with  the  Church  and  the  nation  that,  June  10,  a 
son  was  claimed  to  have  been  born  to  Jamc.  received, 
however,  by  the  people  with  a strong  suspicion  chat  the 
child  was  supposititious,  and  that  the  queen  had  never 
been  delivered  or  been  pregnant  at  all.  For  this  notion, 
however,  it  is  now  generally  admitted  that  there  was 
no  good  ground.  But  the  fact  that  a direct  heir  had 
been  horn,  who,  in  all  probability,  would  restore  popery, 
in  which,  no  doubt,  he  would  be  instructed  from  earliest 
infancy,  turned  the  Protestants’  eyes  towards  James’s 
son-in-law,  the  prince  of  Orange,  “for  the  deliverance 
of  their  country  from  the  perils  with  which  it  was 
threatened;  and  James,  before  the  end  of  September, 
learned  with  consternation  that  his  own  son-in-law,  in 
obedience  to  their  call,  was  preparing  to  land  upon  his 
coasts.”  On  the  night  of  the  same  day  on  which  the 
seven  prelates  of  the  English  Church  had  been  pro- 
nounced not  guilty,  an  invitation  was  dispatched  to  Wil- 
liam, prince  of  ( >range,  signed  by  seven  of  the  leading 
English  politicians,  to  come  over  to  England  and  occu- 
py the  throne.  November  5,  William  landed  at  Torbay 
with  14,000  men.  Vainly  did  James  now  attempt  to 
regain  his  subjects’  confidence  by  retracing  his  steps; 
no  one  would  trust  his  promises,  made  in  the  hour  of 
misfortune,  and,  finding  himself  deserted  not  only  by 
the  nation,  but  even  by  his  own  children,  he  retired  to 
France,  where  he  was  hospitably  received  by  his  co-re- 
ligiouist  and  royal  friend,  Louis  XIV,  and  obliged  to 
live  upon  a pension  settled  upon  him  by  the  king  of  the 
French  until  his  death.  Sept.  6,  1701.  For  England 
his  exit  “effected  a revolution  (November,  1688)  which 
has  deserved  the  epithet  of  glorious,  not  less  through  its 
bloodless  character  than  from  its  identification  with 
those  civil  and  religious  liberties  which  it  secured  to 
every  class  of  Englishmen.”  See,  besides  the  authori- 
ties cited  under  James  I,  Hetberington,  Ch.  of  Scotland, 
ii,  146  sq. ; Stoughton,  Ecclesiastical  Ihst.  of  England 
(see  Index) ; Macaulay,  Hist,  of  England,  vol.  i and  ii ; 
Clarke,  Life  of  James  II  iLond.  1816,  2 vols.  4to);  De- 


JxYMES 


767 


JAMIN 


barv,  Hist,  of  the  Church  of  England  from  James  IT  to 
1717  (Lnntl.  1860,  8vo),  chap,  i-v;  Macpherson,  Hist,  of 
Great  Britain,  i,  450  sq. ; Burnet,  Reign  of  James  If 
(cd.1852).  See  Presbyterians;  Scotland;  Ireland; 
England.  (J.  11.  \V.) 

James,  John,  a minister  of  the  Methodist  Episco- 
pal Church  South,  was  bom  in  Buckingham  County,  Va., 
August  1, 1782.  He  entered  the  Kentucky  Conference 
in  1820,  and  successively  “tilled  some  of  the  most  im- 
portant and  responsible  appointments  acceptably  and 
successfully.”  lie  was  an  ardent  worker  in  the  vineyard 
of  the  Lord,  and  espoused  the  cause  of  his  Master  amid 
persecutions  and  heavy  loss  of  property:  his  father-in- 
law,  a wealthy  man,  disinherited  his  daughter  (the  wife 
of  John  James)  because  her  husband  was  a Methodist 
preacher.  Mr.  James  died,  after  a service  of  half  a cen- 
tury in  the  Church,  in  1860.  As  a preacher,  his  ability 
was  superior,  but  his  sermons  were  more  of  a hortatory 
nature  than  severe  logical  doctrinal  discussions.  “Dur- 
ing his  ministerial  life  he  won  many  souls  to  Christ,  and 
was  regarded  in  his  old  age  as  a father  in  Israel,  lie 
loved  his  work  to  the  last,  and  may  be  said  to  have  de- 
scended from  his  horse  to  the  grave.” — Min.  Ann.  Coif 
M.  E.  Ch.  S.  ii,  193  sq. 

James,  John  Angel!,  an  eminent  Congregational 
minister,  born  at  Blamlford,  Dorsetshire,  June  6,  1785, 
was  educated  at  the  college  at  Gosport,  and  entered  the 
ministry  when  only  seventeen  years  old.  lie  was  a very 
popular  preacher,  and,  before  twenty,  was  settled  as  pas- 
tor of  the  “Church  Meeting  in  Carr’s  Lane,”  Birming- 
ham, where  he  remained  till  his  death,  October  1, 1859. 
“ In  the  course  of  years  Angell  James  came  to  be  consid- 
ered the  most  important  and  influential  public  man  in 
connection  with  his  own  denomination,  and  on  account 
of  his  evangelical  views  of  religion,  he  was  also  much 
esteemed  both  by  the  Low-Church  party  in  the  English 
Establishment,  and  by  Dissenters  generally  in  Scotland 
and  America.”  Air.  James  published,  besides  a multi- 
tilde  of  sermons,  tracts,  addresses,  a number  of  small  re- 
ligious volumes,  the  best  known  being  the  Anxious  In- 
quirer, Christian  Fellowship,  and  Christian  Professor, 
which  had,  and  still  have,  a vast  circulation  both  in  En- 
gland and  in  this  country.  See  Dale’s  Life  and  Letters 
of  John  Angell  James  (London,  1862) ; Pen-Pictures  of 
popular  English  Preachers  (London,  1853,  p.  274  sq.) ; 
New  York  Literary  and  Theological  Revieic,  i,  595.  (J. 

II.W.) 

James,  John  Thomas,  an  English  prolate,  born 
in  1786,  was  educated  at  Christ  Church,  Oxford.  lie 
was  appointed  bishop  of  Calcutta  in  1727,  and  died  in 
1829.  lie  published  several  works  of  travels  in  the 
northern  and  eastern  portions  of  Europe. — Allibone,  D/et. 
of  A uthors,  p.  952. 

James,  Peter,  a minister  of  the  Methodist  Episco- 
pal Church  South,  was  born  in  Pennsylvania  in  1789, 
and  removed  to  Virginia  in  1799,  and  from  thence,  a year 
later,  to  Mississippi.  In  1812  he  joined  the  Mississippi 
Conference.  lie  filled  several  prominent  positions  with- 
in the  limits  of  his  Conference,  and  was  for  a time  pre- 
siding elder.  The  Memphis  Conference  being  formed 
out  of  a part  of  the  Mississippi,  he  was  invited  to  join 
the  latter,  which  he  did ; but  his  health  declining,  he  be- 
came a superannuate.  He  died  March  18, 1869.  “ Peter 
James  possessed  but  limited  literary  attainments;  but, 
by  dint  of  application,  he  became  an  able  minister  of  the 
Gospel.  In  all  the  relations  of  life  he  maintained  his  in- 
tegrity as  a Christian,  and  exemplified  the  virtues  and 
graces  of  our  holy  religion.” — Min.  A nn.  Coif  J/.  E.  Ch. 
S.  iii,  340. 

James,  Thomas,  D.D.  (1),  a learned  divine  and  an 
able  critic,  was  born  at  Newport,  Isle  of  Wight,  in  1571. 
lie  studied  at  Winchester  School  and  New  College,  Ox- 
ford, of  which  lie  became  fellow  in  1593.  lie  was  ap- 
pointed keeper  of  the  Bodleian  Library  at  its  foundation 
in  1602,  and  afterwards  subdean  of  Wells,  and  rector  of 
Mongeham,  Kent.  He  died  in  1629.  Dr.  James,  it  is 


said,  was  one  of  the  most  learned  critics  ol  his  day.  Ilis 
principal  works  are,  Helium  Papule,  sine  concordia  dis- 
cors  Sixti  V ad  dementis  E III,  circa  llieronymianam 
editionem, etc. (Loud.  1600, 4to;  1841, 12mo): — A Treatise 
of  the  Corruption  of  Scripture,  Councils , and  Fathers,  by 
the  Prelates,  Pustors,  and  Pillars  of  the  Church  of  Rome 
for  M aintenance  of  Popery  aiul  Irreligion  (Loud.  1612, 
4to ; reprinted  1688, 1843). — Allibone,  Piet,  of  A uthors,  i, 
952. 

J antes,  Thomas  (2),  a minister  of  the  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church  South,  was  born  in  Madison  County, 
Tenn.,  October  19, 1832.  He  joined  the  Church  at  thir- 
teen years  of  age,  was  admitted  to  the  St.  Louis  Confer- 
ence in  1852,  and  appointed  to  Carthage  Circuit.  He 
then  removed  first  to  Mount  Vernon  Circuit,  next  to  Os- 
ceola Circuit,  then  to  Fredcricktown,  and  finally  to 
Ozark  Circuit.  lie  died  in  the  midst  of  the  work  in 
the  fall  of  1857. — Min.  Ann.  Coif . Methodist  Episcopal 
Church  South,  ii,  14. 

Jameson,  Mrs.  Anna,  an  English  authoress,  de- 
serves our  notice  as  the  writer  of  a series  of  works  on 
Christian  art  and  archeology  of  most  superior  order. 
She  was  born  in  Dublin  May  19, 171*7,  and  was  married 
in  1827  to  Mr.  Jameson,  a barrister,  but  soon  after  sep- 
arated from  her  husband,  and  devoted  herself  to  litera- 
ture. She  died  March  17,  I860.  Her  works  of  interest 
to*  us  are,  Sacred  and  Legendary  A rt  (Lend.  1848,  8vo) : 
— Legends  of  the  Monastic  Orders  (1850): — Legends  of 
the  Madonna  (1852):  — Scriptural  and  Legendary  Bis- 
tort/ of  our  Lord,  etc.,  as  represented  in  Christian  Arts 
(I860). 

Jami  is  a Turkish  name  for  the  temples  in  which 
worship  is  performed  on  Fridays  (the  worship  itself 
bearing  the  name  of  Jema-namazi),  it  being  unlawful  to 
use  the  lesser  temples  (mosques)  on  that  day.  The  first 
Jami,  called  Selalyn  (i.  e.  royal),  being  founded  by  a sul- 
tan, was  built  by  Orkhan  the  Second,  sultan  of  the  Turks, 
who  began  his  reign  in  1326. — Broughton,  Bio.  Hist.  Sac, 
i,  501. 

Jamieson,  John,  D.D.,  a divine  and  philologist, 
was  bom  at  Glasgow  M arch  3, 1759.  He  became  min- 
ister of  the  Anti-Burgher  Secession  Church  in  Scotland, 
and  was  stationed  first  at  Forfar  (in  1781),  and  after- 
wards (1797)  for  forty-three  years  at  Edinburgh.  He 
died  in  1838.  His  principal  works  are,  A 1 'indication 
of  the  Doctrines  of  Scripture  and  of  the  Primitive  Faith 
concerning  the  Deity  of  Christ  (Edinb.  1794,  2 vols.  8vo) : 
“a  very  able  and  learned  reply  to  Priestly's  history  of 
early  opinions:” — An  Alarm  to  Britain,  or  an  Inquiry 
into  the  Causes  of  the  rapid  Progress  of  Infidelity  (Perth, 
1795, 12mo) : — Sermons  on  the  Heart  (Edinb.  1789-90,  2 
vols.  8vo): — The  Use  of  Sacred  History,  confirming  the 
Doctrine  of  Rerelation  (Edinb.  1802,2  vols.  8vo): — An 
Historical  Account  of  the  ancient  Culdees  of  Iona,  and  of 
their  Settlement  in  England, Scotland, and  Ireland  (Edinb. 
1811,  4 to),  etc.  Ilis  reputation,  however,  rests  chiefly 
on  his  Etymological  Dictionary  of  the  Scottish  Language 
(1808-1809),  of  which  he  published  an  abridgment  in 
1818,  and  to  which  he  added  a supplement  in  1825.  See 
Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliog.  s.  v. ; Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors , 
s.  v. 

Ja'min  (Hebrew  Yarnin',  ’P’S*1,  lit.  the  right  hand, 
hence  luck,  as  often  ; i.  q.  Felix ; Sept.  T aptiv  and  T«- 
gir,  but  v.  r.  ’lafitir  in  1 Cliron.  ii,  27,  and  omits  in 
Nch.  viii,  7),  the  name  of  three  men.  See  also  Benja- 
min. 

1.  The  second  named  of  the  sons  of  Simeon  (Gen. 

xlvi,  11;  Exod.  vi,  15;  Numb,  xxvi,  12;  1 Cliron.  iv, 
24).  B.C!  1856.  Ilis  descendants  were  called  Jamin-. 
ites  (Heb.  Yamini',  Sept,  ’lapivt,  Numb,  xxvi, 

12). 

2.  The  second  named  of  the  three  sons  of  Ram,  the 
fourth  in  descent  from  Judah  (1  Chron.  ii,  26).  B.C. 
cir.  1658. 

3.  One  of  the  priests  that  interpreted  the  law  to  the 


JANNES 


JAMINITE  *68 


people  after  the  return  from  Ilabylon  (Neh.  viii,  7).  B. 
C.  eir.  410. 

Ja'minite  (Numb,  xxvi,  12).  See  Jamin,  1. 

Jam'lech  (Heb.  Yamlek',  “ kingly  ; Sept.  ’A/x- 
a\!)X  v.  r.  ’Afict\f]K,  ’If/ioAdy;  Yidg.  Jemlech ),  a chief- 
tain (X":r3)  of  the  tribe  of  Simeon,  apparently  one  of 
those  whose  family  increased  so  greatly  that  they  invaded 
the  valley  of  Gedor  in  the  time  of  Ilezekiah,  and  dis- 
possessed the  Hamites  (1  Chron.  iv,  34).  B.C.  cir.  711. 

Jam 'ilia  (1  applet  v.  r.  ’layvtui),  a Gnecized  or 
later  form  of  the  name  of  the  city  Jabneel  (q.v.),used 
in  the  Apocrypha  (1  A lace,  iv,  15 ; v,  58 ; x,  69 ; xv,  40), 
and  Josephus  (.1  nt.  v,  1,  22;  xiv,  4,  4;  War,  i,  7,  7). 

Jam'nite  (6  iv  ’lapvtia,  o lajuviYije),  an  inhabit- 
ant of  Jam nt a (2  Alaec.  xii,  8, 9, 40)  or  Jabneel  (q.v.). 

Janduno.  See  John  ok  Jandeno. 

Janeway,  Jacob  J.,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minis- 
ter of  some  note,  was  born  in  the  city  of  New-York  in 
1774,  and  graduated  at  Columbia  College  in  1794.  He 
joined  the  Presbyterians,  but  also  served  the  (Dutch) 
Reformed  Church  for  some  time  with  great  distinction. 
The  infirmities  of  age  obliged  him  to  retire  from  the 
pastorate,  and  he  resided  the  last  years  of  his  life  at 
New  Brunswick, N.  J.,  where  he  died  in  1858.  Air.  Jane- 
wav  wrote  quite  extensively.  II is  most,  important  con- 
tributions are  commentaries  on  Romans , Hebrews , and 
Acts  (Philadel.  3 vols.  18mo) : — Internal  Evidence  of  the 
Holy  Bible: — Review  of  Dr.  Schaff on  Protestantism,  etc. 
See  (Pha.)  Presb.  May.  May,  1853. 

Janeway,  James,  an  English  divine,  was  born  in 
Hertfordshire,  and  educated  at  Christ  Church,  Oxford. 
In  1652  he  left  the  State  Church  and  set  up  a dissenting 
congregation  (Presbyterian)  at  Rotherhithe.  He  died 
in  1674.  Besides  a life  of  his  brother  John  (q.  v.)  and 
his  sermons,  he  published  The  Saint's  Encouragement 
(1675, 8vo)  ‘.—Token  for  Children  (1676,  8vo,  and  often)  : 
— Heaven  upon  Earth  (1677,  8vo).  See  Allibone,  Diet, 
of  Authors,  i,  954;  Hook,  Eccles.  Bioy.x  i,  276. 

Janeway,  John,  a very  pious  and  promising 
young  man,  was  born  at  Lilly,  1 lertfordsliire,  in  1633,  of 
religious  parents,  entered  Cambridge  at  seventeen,  and 
at  eighteen  was  converted,  in  part  by  means  of  Baxter’s 
Saint's  Rest.  He  now  glowed  for  the  salvation  of  souls, 
especially  of  those  nearly  related  to  him  ; secret  prayer 
became  his  element.  On  leaving  college,  his  father  be- 
ing dead,  he  went  to  live  in  the  family  of  Dr.  Cox,  where 
his  health  sank  under  his  studies  and  labors,  and  he  fin- 
ished his  short  course  suddenly  in  June,  1657.  His  dy- 
ing bed  was  a scene  of  triumph. — Middleton,  Works,  iii, 
362. 

Jangling,  VAIN  (paraio\oyia,  frivolous  or  empty 
talk). 

Janitores,  persons  appointed  to  take  care  of  the 
doors  of  the  churches  in  time  of  divine  service,  and  to 
make  a distinction  between  the  faithful  and  the  cate- 
chumens, and  excommunicated  persons,  and  others  not 
entitled  to  admission.  See  Dooi&-keei*e1{s. 

Janizaries  ( Jeni-tsheri , “new  soldiers”),  a Turkish 
military  force  which  was  for  some  time  recruited  from 
Christian  prisoners  taken  by  the  ’Parks,  more  especially 
during  the  Crusades.  They  were  originated  by  the 
Osmanli  Emir  Orchan,  about  1330,  of  young  Christian 
prisoners,  which,  after  having  been  distributed  among 
the  Turkish  husbandmen  in  Asia,  there  to  learn  the 
'1  urkish  language,  religion,  and  manners,  were  com- 
pelled to  embrace  Mohammedanism.  This  treatment 
of  Christian  prisoners  sprang  from  the  Mohammedan 
doctrine  that  “all  children  at  their  birth  are  naturally 
disposed  to  Tslamism,”  and  they  reasoned  that,  by  en- 
forcing the  conversion  of  the  young  captives  to  the  true 
faith,  and  enrolling  them  in  the  ranks  of  the  army  of 
the  faithful,  they  were  serving  both  their  temporal* and 
eternal  interests.  But  after  a time  the  recruiting  of 
the  Janizaries  was  also  undertaken  among  the  Chris-  I 


tian  subjects  of  the  Mohammedans,  and  the  execution 
of  this  terrible  scheme  inspired  terror  and  consternation 
among  the  vanquished  Christian  populations  of  Asia 
Minor,  Thrace,  and  Anatolia,  where  the  new  tax  of 
flesh  and  blood  on  families  severed  the  nearest  and 
dearest  ties.  For  a period  of  300  years  it  was  the  cus- 
tom to  raise  annually  for  this  branch  of  the  Turkish 
army  no  less  than  1000  Christian  youths;  and  it  is  esti- 
mated by  Yon  Hammer  that  no  less  than  500,000  young 
Christians  were  thus  converted  into  Mohammedan  Turk- 
ish soldiers  (compare  Creasy,  Hist.  Ottoman  Turks,  i,  21 
sq.).  In  the  second  half  of  the  17th  century  the  old 
system  of  tilling  the  ranks  of  the  Janizaries  exclusively 
with  compulsory  conscripts  from  the  Christian  subjects 
of  the  Turk  was  finally  abandoned,  as  the  many  privi- 
leges which  these  soldiers  enjoyed  as  body-guard  of  the 
sultan,  etc.,  induced  many  young  Turks  to  seek  admis- 
sion to  their  body.  There  were  two  classes  of  Janiza- 
ries, one  regularly  organized,  dwelling  in  barracks  in 
Constantinople  and  a lew  other  towns,  and  whose  num- 
ber at  one  time  amounted  to  no  less  than  60,000,  af- 
terwards, however,  reduced  to  25,000;  and  the  other 
composed  of  irregular  troops,  called  Jamaks,  scattered 
throughout  all  the  towns  of  the  empire,  and  amounting 
in  number  to  300,000  or  400,000.  At  the  head  of  the 
whole  Janizary  force  was  the  Aga,  who  held  his  ap- 
pointment for  life,  and  whose  power  was  almost  with- 
out limit.  In  times  of  peace  they  acted  as  a police 
force;  in  war  they  generally  formed  the  reserve  of  the 
Turkish  army,  and  were  noted  for  the  wild  impetuosity 
of  their  attack.  But  the  many  privileges  which  were 
bestowed  on  them  soon  began  to  make  them  very  unru- 
ly; and  their  history  abounds  in  conspiracies,  assassina- 
tions of  sultans,  viziers,  agas,  etc.,  and  atrocities  of 
every  kind ; so  that,  by  degrees,  they  became  more 
dangerous  to  the  country  than  any  foreign  enemies. 
Attempts  to  reform  or  dissolve  them  were  always  un- 
successful, till  sultan  Mahmoud  II,  in  1826,  being  op- 
posed in  some  of  his  measures  by  them  in  Constantino- 
ple, displayed  the  flag  of  the  Prophet,  and  succeeded  in 
arousing  on  his  own  behalf  the  fanatical  zeal  of  other 
portions  of  his  troops.  Their  own  aga  deserted  them, 
they  were  defeated,  and  their  barracks  burned,  when 
8000  of  them  perished  in  the  flames.  June  17, 1826,  a 
proclamation  announced  the  Janizaries  forever  abolish- 
ed. Everywhere  in  the  empire  they  were  persecuted 
until  “upwards  of  40,000  of  these  troops  were  annihi- 
lated, and  an  equal  number  driven  into  exile.”  See  Fra- 
zer (the  Rev.  R.  W.),  Turkey,  Ancient  and  Modern  (Lon- 
don, 1854, 8vo),  p.  406;  Creasy,  Hist,  of  Ottoman  Turks , 
chiefly  founded  on  Yon  Hammer  (London,  1858,  2 vols. 
8vo),  Yol.  ii ; Knolles,  Turkish  History,  i,  132  sq. ; Mad- 
den (R.  R.),  Turkish  Empire.  (LoncL  1862,  8vo),  eh.  xiii; 
Maefarland,  Constantinople  in  1828.  (J.  II.  AV.) 

Jail'na  (1  avva,  prob.  for  Heb.  yannah’ , flour- 

ishing, although  no  corresponding  name  occurs  in  the 
O.  T.),  the  father  of  Melehi  and  son  of  Joseph,  named 
as  the  sixth  in  ascent  from  Christ  on  his  mother’s  side 
(Luke  iii,  24).  B.C.  cir.  200.  See  Genealogy  of 
Christ. 

Jannaeus.  See  Alexander  Jannjeus. 

Jan'nes  (Tni'i'i/c,  probably  of  Egyptian  etymology 
[see  below]).  Jannes  and  Janibres  are  thought  to  have 
been  two  of  the  Egyptian  magicians  who  attempted  by 
their  enchantments  Exod.  vii,  22,  etc. ; or 

D^fT?,  Exod.  vii,  11,  secret  arts)  to  counteract  the  in- 
fluence on  Pharaoh’s  mind  of  the  miracles  wrought  by 
Moses  (see  Exod.  vii,  viii).  Their  names  occur  nowhere 
in  the  Hebrew  Scriptures,  and  only  once  in  the  New 
Testament  (2  Tim.  iii,  8),  where  Paul  says  no  more  than 
that  they  “withstood  Moses,”  and  that  their  folly  in 
doing  so  became  manifest  (2  Tim.  iii,  8, 9).  He  became 
acquainted  with  them,  most  probably,  from  an  ancient 
Jewish  tradition,  or,  as  Theodore!  expresses  it,  “from 
the  unwritten  teaching  of  the  Jews.”  They  are  found 
frequently  in  the  Talmudical  and  Rabbinical  writings, 


JANNING 


769 


JANOAII 


but  with  some  variations.  Thus,  for  Jannes  we  meet 
with  with,  ■wp,  laser,  oiaT,  tpav  of  these,  the 
last  three  are  forms  of  the  Hebrew  “SJVP,  which  has  led 
to  the  supposition  that  ’I avvijg  is  a contracted  form  of 
the  Greek  'I toavvijc.  Some  critics  (Pfeiffer,  Dub.  vex. 
i,  253)  consider  these  names  to  be  of  Egyptian  origin, 
and  in  that  case  the  Jewish  writers  must  have  been 
misled  by  a similarity  of  sound  to  adopt  the  forms 
above  mentioned,  as  the  Mishna  (Sanhedr.  98,  b;  Choi. 
19,  a)  has  done  in  the  ease  of  other  unknown  proper 
names  (Majus,  Observat.  sacr.  ii,  42).  For  Jambres  we 
find  CPinG*1,  OTa^V',  XIGG,  "mra,  and  in  the  Shal- 
slieleth  Ilakkabala  (xiii,  2)  the  two  names  are  given 
■’IXT',  i.  e.  Johannes  and  Ambrosius! 
The  Targum  of  Jonathan  inserts  them  in  Exod.  vii,  11. 
The  same  writer  also  gives  as  a reason  for  Pharaoh’s 
edict  for  the  destruction  of  the  Israelitish  male  children 
that  “this  monarch  had  a dream  in  which  the  land  of 
Egypt  appeared  in  one  scale  and  a lamb  in  another; 
that  on  awakening  he  sought  for  its  interpretation  from 
his  wise  men;  whereupon  Jamies  and  Jambres  (CF!"1 

said,  “A  son  is  to  be  born  in  the  congrega- 
tion of  Israel  who  will  desolate  the  whole  land  of 
Egypt.”  Several  of  the  Jewish  writers  speak  of  Jannes 
and  Jambres  as  the  two  sons  of  Balaam  (Talmud,  Jal- 
kut  Ruben,  lxxxi,  3),  and  assert  that  they  were  the  I 
youths  (G^7"3,  Auth.  Version  servants)  who  went  with 
him  to  the  king  of  Moab  (Numb,  xxii,  22).  Arabian  j 
tradition  assigns  them  a place  in  Egyptian  history  (see 
the  Asiatic  Journal,  1843,  No.  7,  p.  73).  Their  graves 
were  located  in  Egypt  (Pallad.  Luusiac.  20).  The  Pyth- 
agorean philosopher  Numenius  mentions  these  persons 
in  a passage  preserved  by  Eusebius  ( Prtrparatio  Evany. 
ix,  8),  and  by  Origen  ( c . Cels,  iv,  p.  198,  ed.  Spencer) ; 
also  Pliny  (Hist.  Nat.  xxx,  I),  and  apparently  Apuleius 
Apol.  p.  *94).  The  Arabs  mention  the  names  of  several 
magicians  who  opposed  Moses;  among  them  is  none 
resembling  Jannes  and  Jambres  (D’llerbelot,  s.  v.  Mous- 
sa  Ben  Arnran).  There  was  an  ancient  apocryphal 
writing  entitled  Jannes  and  Mambres,  which  is  referred  . 
to  by  Origen  (in  Matt.  Comment.  § 117;  Opera,  v,  29),  { 
and  bv  Ambrosiaster,  or  Hilary  the  Deacon : it  was  con-  j 
demned  by  pope  Gelasius. — Kit  to. 

Jannes  appears  to  be  a transcription  of  the  Egyptian 
name  A an,  probably  pronounced  Ian.  It  was  the  no-  ^ 
men  of  two  kings:  one  of  the  eleventh  dynasty,  the 
father  or  ancestor  of  Sesertesen  I of  the  twelfth ; the 
other,  according  to  our  arrangement,  fourth  or  fifth  king 
of  the  fifteenth  dynasty,  called  by  Manetho  ’lavrag  or 
’lav tag  (Josephus),  or  'Sraciv  (Africanus).  See  Poole, 
llorai  xEyyptiacce,  p.  174  sq.  There  is  also  a king  bear-  | 
ing  the  name  Annu,  whom  we  assign  to  the  second  dy-  ; 
nasty  (Hor.  AJy.  p.  101).  The  significations  of  Asin  is  j 
doubtful:  the  cognate  word  Aunt  means  a valley  or  ! 
plain.  The  earlier  king  Aim  may  be  assigned  to  the  j 
21st  century  B.C. ; the  later  one  is  thought  to  have  been 
the  second  predecessor  of  Joseph’s  Pharaoh.  This  shows 
that  a name  which  may  be  reasonably  supposed  to  be  [ 
the  original  of  Jannes  was  in  use  at  or  near  the  period 
of  the  sojourn  in  Egypt.  The  names  of  the  ancient 
Egyptians  were  extremely  numerous,  and  very  fluctua- 
ting in  use;  generally,  the  most  prevalent  at  any  time 
were  those  of  kings  then  reigning  or  not  long  dead. — 
Smith. 

See  Wetstenii  A or.  Test.  Grtee.  ii,  302;  Buxtorf,  Lex. 
Talm.Rabb.  col.  945;  Lightfoot’s  Sermon  on  Jannes  and 
Jambres  (in  IForE?,  vii,  89) ; Erubhin,  or  Miscellanies, 
ch.  xxiv  (in  TForfo,  iv,  33) ; Lardner’s  Credibility,  pt.  ii, 
ch.  xxxv  (in  ]Vorks,  vii,  381) ; Fabric .Pseudepiyr.  F.  T. 
i,  813;  Thilo,  Cod.  Apocryph.  i,  553;  the  dissertations 
De  Janm  et  Jarnbre  of  Zentgrav  (Argent.  1699) ; Gro- 
tius  (Ilafn.  1707) ; Michaelis  (Hal.  1747);  and  Hermann, 
De  pseudothaumaturgio  Pharaonis  (Jen.  1745). 

Janning,  Conrap,  a Dutch  theologian,  was  born  at 
Groniugen  Nov.  16,  1650.  He  received  his  early  edu-  [ 
IV.— C c c 


cation  from  his  uncle,  J.  Tinga,  a pastor  at  Groningen. 
As  his  parents  were  devoted  Romanists,  they  were  un- 
willing to  have  him  educated  at  the  Protestant  univer- 
sity of  his  native  city.  He  was  therefore  sent  to  a Jes- 
uit College  in  Westphalia,  and  afterwards  to  Antwerp. 
In  1679  he  was  associated  with  the  Bollandists  in  the 
gigantic  Labor  of  preparing  the  Acta  Sanctorum.  In 
1661  he  visited  Rome,  where  he  completed  his  theolog- 
ical studies,  and  was  consecrated  to  the  priesthood.  In 
Rome  and  throughout  Italy,  and  on  his  whole  route,  he 
collected  materials  for  the  above-named  work.  He  re- 
turned to  Antwerp  in  1686,  but  soon  made  another  tour, 
visiting  different  parts  of  Germany  and  Bohemia  in 
quest  of  further  materials.  In  1697  he  again  went  to 
Rome,  and  rendered  important  service  in  the  work  to 
which  his  life  was  devoted.  To  his  indefatigable  labors 
this  stupendous  task  is  under  very  great  obligations,  as 
thirteen  volumes  are  ascribed  to  his  pen.  Different 
judgments  mav  be  formed  of  this  work.  Prof.  II.  De 
Groot,  of  the  Groningen  University,  a man  of  eminent 
attainments  in  Church  History,  and  distinguished  by  his 
writings  in  this  department,  thus  speaks  of  the  work 
of  the  Bollandists : “ With  many  fables  and  worthless 
legends,  they  communicate  a great  number  of  important 
biographies,  elucidated  generally  with  great  learning, 
and  in  the  earlier  portions,  for  the  most  part,  also  with 
impartiality.  For  a knowledge  of  Church  History  in 
the  primitive  times,  and,  above  all,  in  the  Middle  Ages, 
both  the  lives  and  the  elucidations  are  often  of  inesti- 
mable value.”  Janning  died  August  13,  1723.  See  B. 
Glasius,  Godyeleerd  Nederland,  ii,  159  sq. ; Geschiedenis 
der  Christelijke  Kerk,  door  Profs.  De  Groot,  Ter  Haar, 
Kist,  Moll,  etc.,  v,  34.  (J.  I*.  W.) 

Jano'ah  (Heb.  Yano’ach,  rest;  2 Kings  xv, 
29;  Sept. ’Avib%  v.r.’laviox;  but  in  Josh.xvi,  6, 7 with 
n local,  Yano'chah,  nm^,  to  Janoah;  Sept.  ’I avtv\a 
v.  r.  ’lavtoKct  and  ’lamb,  or  even  Ma^oi;  Vulg.  Janoe ; 
A.  V.  “ Janohah"),  the  name  probably  of  two  places. 

1.  A town  on  the  N.E.  border  of  Ephraim  (see  Keil 
and  Delitzsch,  Comment,  on  Joshua,  etc.,  p.  177,  Clarke’s 
ed.),  and  consequently  in  or  near  the.  Jordan  valley  (Josh, 
xvi,  6, 7).  Euseb.  and  Jerome  state  that  in  their  time 
it  was  still  a village  in  the  district  of  Acrabatine,  twelve 
miles  east  of  Neapolis,  the  ancient  Sichem  (Onomasticon 
s.  v.  Tovw,  Janon).  About  three  and  a half  hours  (12 
miles)  east  by  south  of  Nablus  stands  the  little  village 
of  Yaniin,  situated  in  a vale  which  descends  the  eastern 
slope  of  the  mountains  of  Ephraim  to  the  Jordan.  The 
village  is  now  mostly  in  ruins,  but  it  has  a few  houses 
inhabited,  and  its  ancient  remains  “are  extensive  and 
interesting.  Entire  houses  and  walls  are  still  existing, 
but  covered  with  immense  heaps  of  earth  and  rubbish. 
The  dwellings  of  the  present  inhabitants  are  built  upon 
and  between  the  dwellings  of  the  ancient  Janohah”  (Van 
de  Velde,  Travels,  ii,  303).  Janohah  being  situated  on 
the  side  of  the  mountain  range,  the  border  “ went  down” 
to  Ataroth,  which  lay  in  the  valley  of  the  Jordan. 
About  a mile  up  the  vale  of  Janohah  is  a little  fountain, 
and  on  a hill  above  it  the  prostrate  ruins  of  another  an- 
cient town  which  is  now  called  Khirbet  Yanun  (“ruined 
Yaniin”)  (Robinson,  B.  R.  iii,  297). — Kitto. 

2.  A town  of  Northern  Palestine,  situated  apparently 
between  Abel-bet h-Maaehah  and  Kedesh,  and  within 
the  boundaries  of  Naphtali.  It  was  taken,  with  several 
other  cities,  on  the  first  invasion  of  Palestine  byTiglath- 
Pileser,  king  of  Assyria  (2  Kings  xv,  29).  It  is  mention- 
ed by  Eusebius  and  Jerome,  but  they  strangely  con- 
found it  with  Janohah,  a town  of  Ephraim  (Onomasticon, 
s.  v.  Janon),  and  in  this  they  are  followed  by  Reland 
(Paleestina,  p.  826),  Gesenius  ( Thesaurus , s.  v.),  Schwarz 
Palest,  p.  147),  and  others.  The  modern  village  of  Bu- 
nin, which  stands  on  the  brow  of  a mountain  between 
Abel  and  Kedesh,  and  which  contains  the  massive  ruins 
of  a large  and  strong  castle,  would  answer  to  the  situa- 
tion, and  the  names  have  some  slight  radical  affinity. 
For  a description  of  Hunin,  see  Porter,  Handbook  for 


110 


JANSEN 


JAN  OH  All 

Syria  and  Palestine,  p.  444.— Kitto,  s.  v.  A ruin  called 
Yanuh,  on  a hill  S.W.  of  Haddata  (Robinson,  Later  Re- 
searches, p.  5>S),  seems  by  its  name  to  have  more  corre- 
spondence to  Janoah  than  Hunnin ; but  it  lies  in  the 
centre  of  Gentile  Galilee,  and  Tiglath-Pileser’s  march 
seems  rather  to  have  followed  the  hills  along  the  Huleh 
plain. — Van  de  Velde,  Memoir , p.  324. 

Jano'hah  (Josh,  xvi,  6, 7).  See  Janoah,  1. 

Janow,  Matthias  von,  one  of  the  most  celebrated 
reformers  before  the  Reformation,  and  one  of  the  three 
distinguished  forenmners  of  Iluss  [see  Waldiiauser 
and  M u.tcz],  on  whose  teachings  in  their  day,  more  than 
on  all  the  territorial  aggrandizements  of  the  German 
empire,  the  most  important  results  of  the  latter  half  of 
the  14th  century  were  staked  (Gillett,  Iluss,  i,  37),  was 
the  son  of  a lloliemian  knight.  Of  the  early  history  of 
Matthias  we  know  but  very  little,  lie  was  educated  at 
the  University  of  Prague,  where  he  was  a zealous  disciple 
of  Milicz  (q.  v.),  and  he  is  often  called  Murjister  Parisi- 
ensis,  because  he  spent  six  years  at  the  University  of  Par- 
is, and  obtained  his  master’s  degree  there,  lie  travelled 
extensively,  and  no  doubt  had  attained  great  popularity 
as  a scholar  and  divine  when  quite  young.  He  was 
ambitious  to  secure  some  prominent  position,  and  suc- 
ceeded, on  a visit  to  Rome  in  1380,  in  obtaining  the  ap- 
pointment of  prebendary  at  Prague,  and  confessor  of 
Charles  IV.  lie  entered  upon  the  duties  of  this  office 
Oct.  12,  1381,  and  continued  therein  until  his  death, 
Nov.  30,  1394.  Matthias  of  Janow  does  not  seem  to 
have  been  a very  eloquent  preacher,  but  lie  was  certain- 
ly a man  of  very  earnest  and  deep  piety,  zealous  for  his 
Master’s  cause,  anxious  to  purify  the  Church  from  the 
evils  and  corruptions  which  then  threatened  the  extir- 
pation of  all  religions  feeling;  and  however  small  may 
have  been  his  influence  in  the  pulpit,  “it  was  more 
than  compensated  by  the  influence  which  he  exerted 
through  his  writings,  and  by  his  scientific  exposition  of 
principles.  In  his  works  we  may  find  not  only  the  re- 
formatory ideas  which  passed  over  from  him  to  Iluss, 
but  also  the  incipient  germ  of  those  Christian  principles 
which  at  a later  period  were  unfolded  in  Germany  by 
Luther,  although  the  latter  never  came  under  the  influ- 
ence of  Matthias  of  Janow”  (Neander,  Ch.  Ilist.  v,  192). 
In  his  earlier  period  of  life,  disgusted  with  that  spiritual 
pride  and  contempt  of  the  laity  which  characterized  the 
priests  in  the  14th  and  loth  centuries,  he  was  impressed 
by  Milicz’s  ideas  of  the  universal  priesthood  of  all  Chris- 
tians, more  especially  after  he  had  been  placed  in  the 
confessional,  where  he  had  great  opportunity  to  inform 
himself  more  minutely  of  the  good  or  bad  in  all  classes 
of  society,  and  of  the  religious  wants  of  the  people.  This 
may  be  clearly  seen  not  only  from  his  own  narration  of 
the  change  which  he  experienced  (see  Neander,  Ch.  1 list. 
v,  194  sq. ; Gillett,  Iluss , i,  28  sq.),  but  also  from  his 
writings,  collected  under  the  title  of  l)e  ree/ulis  Veteris 
et  Xovi  Testamenti,  of  which,  unfortunately,  the  greater 
part  still  remains  in  M S.  form  (for  extracts,  see  Jor- 
dan,! orliiufer  d.  Ifusitenthums  in  Bohmen  [Lpz.  1846]). 
Prcssel,  in  Herzog  (s.  v.),  says  that  the  work  might 
more  appropriately  have  been  entitled  Inquiries  concern- 
ing true  and  false  Christianity.  “ It  is  chiefly  taken  up 
with  reflections  on  the  history'  of  the  times,  and  hints 
concerning  the  future,  based  on  the  rules  of  the  Old  and 
New  Testaments,  on  the  prophetical  elements  which 
they  contain.  Although  there  is  a great  deal  in  the  de- 
tails which  is  arbitrary,  particularly  in  the  apocalyptic 
calculations,  yet  grand  prophetic  glances  into  the  future 
are  also  to  be  found.  lie  portrays  the  utter  corruption 
of  the  Church  in  all  its  parts,  and  explains  the  causes 
°1  (Neander).  The  main  object  of  the  work,  how- 
ever, was  the  rejection  of  the  authority  of  human  tradi- 
tions and  popish  decretals,  and  the  substitution  in  their 
stead  of  the  supreme  authority  of  the  divine  Word. 
He  tries  everything  by  this  test.  The  conduct  of  the 
bishops  and  the’ priests  is  severely  arraigned.  The 
antichrist,  he  asserts,  has  already  come,  lie  is  nei- 


ther Jew,  Pagan,  Saracen,  nor  worldly  tyrant  persecu- 
ting Christendom,  but  the  man  who  opposes  Christian 
truth  and  the  Christian  life  in  the  way  of  deception ; 
he  is  and  will  be  the  most  wricked  Christian,  falsely 
styling  himself  by  that  name,  assuming  the  highest  sta- 
tion in  the  Church,  and  possessing  the  highest  consider- 
ation, arrogating  dominion  over  all  ecclesiastics  and  lay- 
men ; one  who,  by  the  worki tig  of  Satan,  knows  how  to 
make  subservient  to  his  own  ends  and  to  his  own  wriU 
the  corporations  of  the  rich  and  wise  in  the  entire 
Church  ; one  who  has  the  preponderance  in  honors  and 
in  riches,  but  wTho  especially  misappropriates  the  goods 
of  Christ,  the  Holy  Scriptures,  the  sacraments,  and  all 
that  belongs  to  the  hopes  of  religion,  to  his  own  ag- 
grandizement and  to  the  gratification  of  his  own  pas- 
sions; deceitfully  perverting  spiritual  things  to  carnal 
ends,  and  in  a crafty  and  subtle  manner  employing  what 
was  designed  for  the  salvation  of  a Christian  people,  as 
means  to  lead  them  astray  from  the  truth  and  power  of 
Christ  (Neander,  v,  196  sq. ; Gillett,  p.  30  sq.).  It  is  ap- 
parent, from  the  tenor  of  Janow’s  writings,  that  he  took 
higher  ground  than  the  other  Hussite  forerunners,  Wald- 
hausen  and  Milicz — the  earliest  Bohemian  reformers — 
and  that  he  was,  in  truth,  the  Wickliffe  of  the  Bohemi- 
an Church.  The  efforts  of  his  predecessors  were  simply 
toward  a reform  in  morals  and  in  doctrine,  but  the  ef- 
forts of  Janow  were  directed  to  a reformation  of  the  cor- 
rupt Latin  system,  with  a view  to  remove  wholly  the 
yoke  of  that  system.  He  strove  not  simply  to  elevate 
the  moral  and  religious  condition  of  the  priest  and  the 
layman,  but  demanded  alike  privileges  for  both.  Not 
to  the  priesthood  only,  but  to  the  laity  also  belonged 
the  communion  of  both  kinds ; not  to  the  popes  only, 
who  had  haughtily  exalted  themselves,  belonged  the 
right  to  govern,  but  all  bishops  should  share  the  same 
privileges;  in  short,  his  idea  was  that  the  organism  of 
the  Church  is  one  in  which  all  the  members  should  be 
connected  according  to  their  several  ranks,  and  co-oper- 
ate together  like  the  head  and  members  in  the  human 
body  (comp,  l’eichel,  See  of  Rome  in  the  Middle  A yes,  p. 
600).  We  need  not  wonder  that  Janow,  although  he 
did  not  suffer  the  punishment  of  a heretic,  was  not  long 
permitted  to  cast  abroad  seeds  which  must  result  in  the 
overthrow  of  the  papal  hierarchy,  and  the  removal  of 
many  strong  barriers  which  protected  the  priesthood  in 
these  days  of  darkness  and  of  sin.  Having  urged  upon 
the  emperor  the  need  of  a council,  the  pope  declared 
Janow  guilty  of  disseminating  heretical  opinions,  and 
he  was  obliged  to  leave  Prague.  It  is  said  that  he  re- 
canted in  1389  before  the  Synod  of  Prague,  which  had 
arraigned  him,  but  it  is  evident  from  his  writings  that 
he  never  changed  his  opinions,  for  one  of  his  last  decla- 
rations was,  “ All  that  remains  for  us  is  to  desire  a ref- 
ormation by  the  overthrow  of  the  antichrist  himself,  to 
lift  up  our  heads  and  see  our  redemption  near.”  Six- 
teen years  after  his  death  (1410),  his  writings,  it  is  gen- 
erally admitted,  were  committed  to  the  flames,  together 
with  those  of  Wickliffe.  See  Palackv,  Geschichte  von 
Bohmen,  III.  i,  173  sq. ; Neander,  Church  History,  v, 
192  sq. ; Gillett,  Iluss  and  his  Times,  i,  26  sq.  (j.  H, 
W.) 

Jansen  or  Jansenius,  Cornelius  (1),  a distin- 
guished Belgian  theologian,  was  born  at  Hulst  in  1510. 
lie  studied  t heology  at  the  University  of  Louvain,  and 
acquired  at  the  same  time  a thorough  knowledge  of 
Greek  and  Hebrew.  In  1538  he.  went  to  Tongerloo  as 
professor  of  theology,  and  became  successively  curate  of 
St.  Martin  at  Court  ray  in  1550,  dean  of  the  theological 
faculty  of  Louvain  in  1562,  and  was  soon  after  sent  by 
Philip  II  to  the  Council  of  Trent.  On  his  return  to  the 
Netherlands  he  was  made  bishop  of  Ghent  in  1568.  He 
died  April  10,  1576.  His  works  on  Scripture  enjoyed 
great  reputation.  He  wrote  Concordia  Ev angelica  et 
ejusdem  Concordue  ratio  (Louvain,  1549,  8vo) : — Para- 
phrasis in  o nines  Psalmos  Davidicos  (Louv.  1849, 4to); 
— Commentarii  in  Concordiam  ac  totam  Ilistoriam  Evan - 
gelicam  (Louvain,  1572, 1577,  and  1617,  fol.;  Lyon,  1597 


JANSEN 

and  1G0G,  folio;  often  reprinted  at  Antwerp  and  Venice 
[this  is  his  chief  work])  : — Annotation?.*  in  librum  Sa- 
jrientice  Salomonis  (Antwerp,  1589, 4to): — Commentarii 
in  Proverbia  Salomonis  et  Ecclesiasticam , etc.  See  Si- 
rnonis,  0 ratio  infitnere  Jansenii ; Gallia  Christiana  (vol. 
vi)  ; Sander,  De  illustribus  Gamlis;  Gcnebrardus,  Chron- 
icon ; Foppens,  Bill.  Belgica ; Mirauis,  Be  Scriptoribus 
Sacidi  xvi;  Pope-Blount,  Censura  A utornm  ; Fabrieius, 
Hist.  Biblioth. — Hoefer,  Xouvelle  Biop.  Generate , xxvi, 
344.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Jansen(ius)  Cornelius  (2),  a celebrated  Dutch 
divine  and  founder  of  the  Jansen  ists,  born  at  Accov, 
near  Leerdam,  in  Northern  Holland,  Oct.  28, 1585,  was  a 
nephew  of  the  above  Cornelius  Jansen,  the  Bp.  of  Ghent. 
He  received  his  early  education  at  Utrecht,  and  in  1602 
entered  the  university  at  Louvain  as  a student  of  phi- 
losophy and  theology.  While  at  this  high-school  lie 
seems  to  have  formed  an  acquaintance  with  the  French- 
man, Jean  Baptiste  Duvergier  (q.  v.)  de  Ilauranne,  gen- 
erally known  by  the  name  of  St.Cvran.  “ Both  he  (i.e. 
Cyran)  and  Jansenius  were  there  brought  into  contact 
with  some  who  in  secret  cherished  the  doctrines  of  grace 
although  in  the  communion  of  Rome,  and  thus  they  re- 
ceived many  principles  of  truth  utterly  opposed  to  those 
ordinarily  held  in  the  Church.  There  also  they  both 
saw  and  felt  the  evil  workings  of  the  Jesuits;  they 
marked  the  inroads  which  that  system  was  making  on 
all  doctrinal  truth  and  practical  morality.”  But  Jan- 
senius's  severe  industry  brought  on  sickness,  and  he  was 
obliged  to  quit  the  university,  and  for  a time  the  two 
bosom-friends  were  separated.  Advised  to  seek  a change 
of  air,  he  undertook  a journey  through  France,  and  final- 
ly stopped  at  Paris  to  prosecute  his  studies  anew.  Again 
the  two  friends  met,  and  together  they  removed  to  Ba- 
yonne, and  spent  another  series  of  years  in  earnest 
study  and  meditation,  particularly  on  the  writings  of  the 
Church  fathers,  of  whom  Augustine  became  their  spe- 
cial favorite.  So  interested  became  Jansenius  in  the 
writings  of  Augustine,  that  from  henceforth  he  deter- 
mined to  make  it  his  life-business  to  arrange  and  method- 
ize everything  in  the  productions  of  this  Church  father 
treating  on  the  subjects  of  the  grace  of  God,  the  condi- 
tion of  man  as  fallen,  free-will  and  human  impotence, 
original  sin,  election,  efficacious  grace,  faith,  and  other 
points  of  like  importance,  with  a view  to  a reformatory 
movement  in  the  Church  to  which  he  belonged,  by  com- 
bating the  increasing  Pelagianism  of  the  Jesuits.  In 
1617  the  two  friends  again  parted,  Jansenius  returning 
to  Louvain  to  obtain  the  doctorate  and  to  assume  the  du- 
ties of  an  extraordinary  professorship  in  the  university. 
In  a controversy  which  ensued  between  this  high-scliool 
and  the  Jesuits  Jansenius  greatly  distinguished  himself, 
and  was  twice  sent  to  Spain  (1G24  and  1G25)  in  the  in- 
terest of  the  university,  Holland  being,  at  that  time,  de- 
pendent on  Spain.  In  1621,  Jansenius  and  Cyran,  who 
had  become  convinced  of  the  necessity  of  a reform  with- 
in the  pale  of  the  Roman  Catholic  communion,  met  again 
at  Louvain  with  a view  to  bringing  about  such  a 
change.  They  divided  the  work  among  themselves, 
Jansenius  taking  the  field  of  doctrine,  Duvergier  that  of 
organization  and  life.  At  the  same  time,  they  entered 
into  intimate  connections  with  distinguished  priests  in 
Ireland  and  with  some  of  the  leaders  of  the  Congregation 
of  the  Oratory  (q.v.).  The  Spanish  Inquisition  seems 
to  have  had  wind  of  this  great  and  daring  undertaking 
of  the  two  noble  spirits,  and  when,  in  1630,  Jansenius  was 
nominated  for  the  regular  professorship  of  sacred  litera- 
ture at  Louvain,  a great  effort  was  made  to  prevent  the 
appointment.  But  Jansenius  was  made  the  recipient  of 
this  honorable  distinction  in  spite  of  the  Jesuits  and  the 
“ Holy  Office.”  He  further  secured  the  favor  of  the 
Spanish  court  by  his  opposition  to  France  and  its  alli- 
ances with  Protestant  powers,  to  which  course  he  seems 
to  have  been  mainly  incited  by  the  tardiness  of  Riche- 
lieu to  enter  into  an  alliance  with  Jansenius  and  Duver- 
gier in  the  intended  reformatory  movement.  He  se- 
verely attacked  the  pretensions  of  France,  which  at  this 


1 JANSEN 

time,  by  her  attitude,  was  threatening  the  Spanish  prov- 
inces of  the  Netherlands,  in  a work  entitled  Mars  Gal- 
licus,  the  publication  of  which  occasioned  the  imprison- 
ment of  Duvergier,  who  was  known  to  have  been  in  con- 
stant epistolary  intercourse  with  Jansenius,  while  to  the 
latter  it  secured  the  see  of  Ypres  (1636).  In  this  city 
he  died  of  the  plague  May  6, 1638,  just  as  he  had  finish- 
ed his  A ugustinus , a work  embodying  the  residt  of  22 
years’  study  of  the  writings  of  St.  Augustine,  and  which, 
according  to  his  own  statement,  he  had  read,  pen  in 
hand,  at  least  ten  times,  and  the  portions  relating  to  sin 
and  grace  no  less  than  thirty  times,  determined  to  ex- 
hibit, expound,  and  illustrate,  not  his  own  views,  but  the 
exact  views  of  the  celebrated  Church  father  (compare 
A ugustinus,  ii,  Prooem.  xxix,  65). 

Jansenius  was  a learned  theologian,  but  a plain,  retir- 
ing man,  who  spent  most  of  his  life  in  his  study,  and  was 
hardly  known  in  his  day  beyond  the  immediate  circle 
surrounding  him.  It  is  thought  likely  that  the  impulse 
communicated  by  Bains  (q.v.)  to  the  school  of  Louvain 
may  have  influenced  Jansenius  in  giving  this  direction 
to  his  studies,  as  Cornelius  Jansen,  the  bishop  of  Ghent, 
who  was  one  of  the  instructors  of  our  Jansen  at  Louvain, 
was  himself  a pupil  of  Baius,  and  that  through  him  he 
had  imbibed  a strong  dislike  to  the  lax  views  of  theolo- 
gy and  morality  advocated  by  the  Jesuits.  Jansenius 
took  the  ground,  in  opposing  the  Jesuits,  that  life  stands 
in  the  closest  relation  to  practical  doctrinal  precepts. 
He  thought  it  impossible  to  attain  true  spiritual  and 
Christian  life  without  the  fullest  faith  in  this  doctrine, 
which  alone  inculcates  true  humility.  On  the  ground 
that  pride  was  the  cause  of  the  fall,  he  sought  to  de- 
stroy all  feeling  of  individual  power,  giving  up  human 
free  agency  to  divine  grace,  and  declaring  human  nature 
to  be  thoroughly  corrupt,  and  unable  by  itself  to  do  any 
good.  While  he  believed  these  to  have  been  the  doc- 
trines of  Augustine  himself,  yet,  as  an  obedient  son 
of  the  Church  of  Rome,  which,  while  he  was  anxious  to 
purge  her  from  the  Pelagianism  of  the  Jesuits,  he  dearly 
loved,  he  in  his  will,  written  half  an  hour  before  his 
death,  said  of  his  yet  unpublished  A ugustinus,  ‘‘I  feel 
that  it  would  be  difficult  to  make  any  changes  in  it ; 
yet,  should  the  Holy  See  require  such,  remember  that  I 
am  an  obedient  son,  and  willing  to  submit  to  the  Church 
in  which  I have  lived  till  death.”  He  willed  the  MS.  to 
Lame,  Fromond,  and  Calenus,  who  published  it  under 
the  title  A ugustinus  . . . seu  doetnna  sancti  A ugustini  de 
hum  ante  natures  sanctitate,  tegritudine,  medicina,  adversus 
Pelagianos  et  Massilienses  (Louvain,  1640,  folio). 

The  Augustinus  is  divided  into  three  parts.  In  the 
first  Jansenius  gives  a historical  account  of  Pelagianism, 
which  heresy  exalted  the  power  of  free-agency,  and  de- 
nied the  original  depravity  of  human  nature,  and,  conse- 
quently, original  sin.  In  the  second  part  the  writer  sets 
forth  the  views  of  St.  Augustine  on  human  nature,  both 
in  its  state  of  primitive  purity  and  in  its  state  of  degra- 
dation after  the  fall.  In  the  third  part,  finally, he  pre- 
sents the  ideas  of  St.  Augustine  touching  grace,  by  which 
Christ  redeems  us  from  our  fallen  state,  also  the  pre- 
destination of  men  and  angels.  The  fundamental  propo- 
sition of  the  work  is  that,  since  the  fall  of  Adam,  free- 
agency  exists  no  longer  in  man,  pure  works  are  a mere 
gratuitous  gift  of  God,  and  the  predestination  of  the  elect 
is  not  an  effect  of  his  prescience  of  our  works,  but  of  his 
free  volition.”  This,  it  will  be  perceived,  is  a close  re- 
production of  the  views  presented  by  Calvin  in  the  pre- 
ceding century.  Such  principles  were,  of  course,  in  di- 
rect opposition  with  those  advocated  in  Spain  and  Hol- 
land by  the  Jesuits  Molina  and  Less  ins,  who  wished  to 
conciliate  the  doctrine  of  salvation  by  grace  with  a cer- 
tain amount  of  human  free-agency.  Jansenius,  besides, 
had  personally  incurred  the  hatred  of  the  “ Order  of  Je- 
sus” by  causing  the  Jesuits  to  be  excluded  as  professors 
from  the  University  of  Louvain;  and,  though  the  work 
had  failed  to  excite  much  attention,  the  Jesuits  were 
determined  now  to  be  revenged  on  their  enemy.  The 
Augustinus  thus  became  the  occasion  of  a theological 


JANSEN-  V 

controversy  by  far  the  most  important  in  its  doctrinal, 
social,  and  even  political  results  which  has  agitated  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church  since  the  great  Keformation  of 
the  16th  century.  The  whole  weight  of  the  order  of 
the  Jesuits  having  been  brought  into  play  to  cause  the 
condemnation  of  the  work  at  Rome,  it  was  accordingly 
and  speedily  done  by  pope  Urban  VIII,  in  his  bull  In  em- 
inently March  G,  1642.  “So  decisive  a point  would  not 
have  been  gained  by  the  Jesuits  had  they  not  succeeded 
in  directing  the  attention  of  the  papal  court  to  a passage 
in  which  Jausenius  brought  forward  a statement  of  St. 
Augustine  as  authoritative,  although  the  same  point 
(without  reference,  of  course,  to  that  father)  had  been 
condemned  at  Rome.  This  was  an  inroad  on  papal  in- 
fallibility, ami  this  caused  the  rejection  of  the  work."  But 
if  the  book  of  Jausenius  had  failed  to  excite  much  at- 
tention, the  issuing  of  a bull  against  its  use,  and  all  this 
at  the  instigation  of  the  Jesuits,  provoked  no  little  in- 
terest. Especially  strong  was  the  opposition  against 
the  bull  in  Belgium  and  in  France,  and  many  were  the 
partisans  thus  secured  for  the  Augustinus,  a number  of 
whom— perhaps  even  the  most — were  animated,  in  all 
likelihood,  less  by  doctrinal  predilection  than  by  an  an- 
tipathy to  the  laxity  of  the  moral  teachings  of  the  Jes- 
uits, with  which  the  opposition  to  the  Augustinus  was, 
of  course,  always  identified.  The  very  strongest  of  the 
partisans  of  the  ugustinus  were  the  recluses  of  Port  - 
I loyal  (q.  v.),  a celebrated  association  of  scholars  and  di- 
vines, among  whom  figured  some  of  the  brightest  names 
in  the  Church  of  France  of  the  17th  century.  One  of 
these,  Antoine  Arnauld  (q.  v.),  in  1643  published  his  De 
la  freqnente  Communion , based  on  the  predestination 
doctrine  of  Augustine  and  Jansenius,  and  thereby  heap- 
ed more  live  coals  on  the  heads  of  the  now  already  much- 
distracted  Jesuits.  Even  the  Dominicans  in  different 
countries  divided  in  opinion,  those  of  Spain  and  Italy 
enlisting  on  the  side  of  the  Jansenists  (as  the  advocates 
of  the  Augustinus  came  by  this  time  to  be  called),  those 
of  France  siding  with  the  Jesuits.  Even  the  Sorbonne, 
of  whom  Arnauld  was  a member,  was  divided;  and, 
after  an  earnest  strife  between  the  contending  parties 
had  waged  in  France  for  some  time,  both  decided  in  1651 
to  carry  it  to  Rome, and  plead  their  cause  before  the  in- 
fallible (!)  judge.  In  1640,  Cornet  Syndic,  of  the  theo- 
logical faculty  at  Paris,  at  the  instigations  of  the  Jesu- 
its, had  drawn  up,  in  connection  with  some  of  them,  five 
propositions,  and  had  submitted  them  to  the  Sorbonne 
as  forming  the  substance  of  .Tansenins’s  work.  These 
the  Jesuits  now  presented  at  Rome,  satisfied  that  if  they 
could  only  once  obtain  the  condemnation  of  these  as 
heretical,  the  fall  of  Jansenism  wras  of  course  secured. 
On  May  31, 1653,  the  Jesuits  finally  secured  their  end, 
and  Innocent  X,  in  his  bull  Cum  occasione,  at  the  insti- 
gation of  his  cardinal  C'liigi,  condemned  the  five  propo- 
sitions, which  had  been  “mostly  couched  in  somewhat 
ambiguous  language,  so  as  to  admit  of  very  different 
explanations,1’  the  object  of  the  Jesuits  being  “to  pro- 
cure their  condemnation  in  any  sense  or  in  any  form.” 
They  are  as  follows:  (1.)  That  there  are  divine  com- 
mands which  virtuous  and  pious  persons,  though  they 
would  gladly  perform  the  same,  cannot  possibly  obey, 
because  God  has  not  given  them  that  measure  of  grace 
which  is  absolutely  necessary  to  enable  them  to  render 
such  obedience.  (2.)  That  no  one  in  this  depraved  state 
of  nature  can  resist  the  influence  of  divine  grace  when  it 
operates  on  the  heart.  (3.)  That,  in  order  to  make  the 
actions  of  men  meritorious,  it  is  not  necessary  that  they 
lie  free  from  necessity , but  only  from  restraint.  (4.) 
That  the  semi-Pclagians  greatly  err  when  they  affirm 
that  the  will  of  man  has  power  to  receive  or  to  resist  the 
influence  of  prevenient  grace.  (5.)  That  they  are  semi- 
Pelagians  who  assert  that  Jesus  ('Iirist,  by  iiis  passion 
and  death,  made  an  atonement  for  the  sins  of  all  men. 
The  | tope  pronounced  the  first  and  the  last  proposition 
presurapt uons,  impious,  and  blasphemous,  but  the  other 
three  simply  heretical.  The  friends  and  adherents  of 
Jausenius  admitted  the  propriety  and  justice  of  eon- 


2 JAN SEX 

demning  these  propositions,  but  main  tamed  that  they 
were  not  found  in  the  work  of  Jansenius. 

France  was  at  this  time  at  enmity  with  Rome,  and 
cardinal  Mazarin,  though  but  little  interested  in  these 
theological  questions,  believed  this  a favorable  opportu- 
nity to  re-establish  amicable  relations  with  Rome,  of- 
fended with  him  on  account  of  his  arrest  of  cardinal 
Retz  (q.  v.).  He  held  an  assembly  at  the  Louvre, 
March  26, 1654.  in  which  thirty-eight  bishops  took  part, 
and  which  declared  that  the  pope’s  decision  should  be 
considered  as  applying  positively  to  Janscnius’s  doc- 
trine, and  that  all  who  held  in  any  way  the  five  con- 
demned propositions  should  be  dealt  with  as  heretics. 
This  decision  was  communicated  to  the  heads  of  all  the 
dioceses  throughout  France,  and  approved  by  the  pope 
September  29.  In  January,  1656,  the  Sorbonne  also 
took  direct  action  against  the  Jansenists  by  condemn- 
ing two  letters  of  Arnauld,  in  which  the  latter  declared 
that  he  could  not  find  the  five  condemned  propositions 
in  Jansenius’s  writings.  He  also  hit  upon  an  expedient 
which  not  only  rendered  the  bull  for  a time  harmless, 
but  which  initiated  a new  movement  against  the  doc- 
trine of  papal  infallibility.  “True,”  he  said,  “the  see 
of  Rome  has  authority  to  decide  with  respect  to  doc- 
trine, and  every  good  Catholic  must  submit  to  its  de- 
cree ; but  the  Holy  See  may  misapprehend  fact  (as  in 
the  papal  condemnation  of  Galileo’s  theory  of  planetary 
movement),  whether  a book  contains  certain  statements 
or  no:  the  meaning  also  of  a writer  may  be  misunder- 
| stood.  Let  the  five  propositions  be  heretical,  yet,  with 
the  exception  of  the  first,  they  are  to  be  found  neither 
in  letter  nor  in  spirit  in  the  writings  of  Jansen.”  Thus 
arose  the  celebrated  distinction  of  de  facto  and  de  jure. 
The  Sorbonne  now  demanded  of  Arnauld  that  he  should 
discontinue  his  opposition  and  submit  to  her  decisions. 
He,  and  sixty  others  with  him,  still  refusing  to  submit, 
they  were  expelled  from  the  theological  faculty.  A 
general  assembly  of  the  clergy  was  also  convened  in 
September  of  this  year,  and  the  following  formula  was 
adopted  on  the  motion  of  De  Marca,  archbishop  of  Tou- 
louse: “I  condemn  with  heart  and  lips  the  doctrine  of 
the  five  propositions  of  Cornelius  Jansenius,  contained 
in  his  book  entitled  A ugustinus,  and  which  the  pope  and 
bishops  have  condemned,  said  doctrine  not  being  that 
of  St.  Augustine,  whom  Jansenius  has  explained  wrong- 
ly, against  the  real  meaning  of  that  holy  doctor.”  A 
bull  of  Alexander  Til,  October  16,  indorsed  the  deci- 
sions of  the  assembly,  and  affirmed  that  the  condemned 
propositions  were  a part  of  the  doctrines  of  Jansenius. 
The  signing  of  the  above  formula,  which  was  required 
of  all  French  priests  and  members  of  religious  orders, 
was  everywhere  opposed.  Louis  XIV,  confounding  the 
Jansenists  with  the  Fronde,  gave  the  Church  the  help 
of  the  civil  authorities.  But  the  members  of  Port-Royal 
continued  in  their  opposition,  thinking  it  perjury  for 
them  to  sign  it.  Another  royal  edict  of  April  29,  1664, 
was  now  issued,  which  was  more  moderate  in  its  de- 
mands. It  merely  required  the  signing  as  a matter  of 
form,  but  at  the  same  time  threatened  such  as  refused 
with  seizure  of  their  income,  and  even  with  excommuni- 
cation. The  opposition  still  continuing,  headed  by  Port- 
Roval,  persecution  now  commenced  in  earnest.  The 
dungeons  of  the  Bastile  were  crowded  with  those  who 
refused  to  violate  their  consciences  by  subscribing  a for- 
mula which  they  did  not  believe  to  set  forth  their  views, 
i Flic  very  passages  of  the  fortress  were  occupied  by  pris- 
oners. Among  those  who  were  thus  treated  was  Le- 
maitre  de  Saev.  spiritual  director  of  the  nuns  of  Port- 
Roval,  who,  accused  of  inciting  them  to  resist,  was  im- 
prisoned in  the  Bastile  in  1666.  As  for  Duvergier  de 
Hauranne,  he  had  already  been  sent  to  Vincennes  thirty 
years  before. 

The  government  and  the  Jesuits,  determined  to  sup- 
press the  rebellious  spirit  of  Port-Royal  (q.  v.),  now  used 
every  effort  that  could  be  devised  to  gain  their  end. 
Two  months  had  elapsed  since  the  expulsion  of  Arnauld 
I from  the  Sorbonne,  when  the  civil  authorities  ordered 


JANSEN 


JANSEN 


r 

that  every  novice  and  scholar  should  he  removed  from 
Port-Royal.  This  sharpened  the  pen  of  Pascal,  and  forth 
came  the  eighteen  famous  Provincial  Letters  (Let (res  a 
an  provincial).  “ In  these  remarkable  letters  the  author 
showed  with  extraordinary  force  how  narrow  the  ques- 
tion really  was — whether  five  propositions  are  in  the 
Augustinus  or  not,  when  no  one  had  there  pointed  them 
out;  he  showed  by  what  unworthy  compromises  the 
condemnation  of  Dr.  Arnauld  had  been  obtained;  and, 
besides  touching  on  doctrinal  points  which  were  in- 
volved, he  firmly  and  manfully  attacked  the  shameless 
casuistry  of  the  Jesuits.  These  letters  had  a wonderful 
efficiency,  for  their  power  was  felt  even  by  those  who 
had  no  apprehension  of  the  present  subject  of  controver- 
sy.” Voltaire  has  said  that  in  wit  the  earlier  of  them 
were  not  excelled  by  the  comedies  of  Moliere,  while  the 
latter  rivalled  the  productions  of  Bossuet  in  eloquence; 
in  fact,  that  they  constituted  an  epoch  in  French  litera- 
ture. Says  I lailam  ( Introd . Literature  of  Europe , Har- 
per’s edition,  ii,  335):  “These  letters  did  more  to  ruin 
the  name  of  Jesuit  than  all  the  controversies  of  Protes- 
tantism, or  all  the  fulminations  of  the  Parliament  of 
Paris.”  “All  Europe,”  says  Macaulay  (History  of  Eng- 
land',  ii,  46),  “read,  admired,  and  laughed.”  But  not 
only  the  Jesuits  felt  this  heavy  blow;  even  the  incum- 
bent of  St.  Peter’s  chair  staggered  and  reeled  under  the 
sudden  attack,  and,  as  a set-off  for  it,  cardinal  Cliigi, 
now  Alexander  VII,  not  only  confirmed  the  position  of 
his  predecessor,  and  again  declared  that  the  live  propo- 
sitions were  contained  de  facto  in  Augustinus,  but,  imi- 
tating the  French  authorities,  accompanied  it  by  the 
requisition  that  every  one  holding  a spiritual  office  in 
the  Church  of  Rome  should  abjure  these  errors  by  sub- 
scribing a formula  prescribed  for  that  purpose.  This 
injudicious  and  oppressive  act  subjected  the  Jansenists 
to  still  severer  persecutions,  and  continued  the  heated 
controversy,  in  which  the  ablest  pens  on  both  sides  were 
enlisted.  A great  point  was  made  by  the  Jesuits  of  the 

S"  illibility  question.  See  Infallibility.  But,  as  the 
troversy  continued,  it  took  a wider  range,  and  came 
to  embrace  such  topics  as  the  rights  of  the  bishops  as 
contradistinguished  from  those  of  the  pope;  the  Jesuit- 
ical views  of  theology  and  morality,  so  ably  censured 
by  Pascal,  as  we  have  already  seen  ; the  vast  and  alarm- 
ing power  of  the  Jesuits,  and  even  many  usages  of  the 
Church  of  Rome.  The  opposition,  which  thus  far  had 
seemed  to  come  mainly  from  Port-Royal  recluses,  was 
found  to  have  spread  even  among  high  dignitaries  of 
the  Church  : four  bishops  refused  to  sign  the  formulary 
which  Rome  dictated,  and  many  others  of  this  high  po- 
sition in  France  took  the  ground  of  “respectful  silence.” 
In  1668  kiug  Louis  succeeded  in  obtaining  the  sanction 
of  Rome  for  a compromise,  substantially  on  the  basis  of 
Arnauld’s  distinction  of  de  facto  and  de  jure,  and  of  re- 
spectful silence. 

“Jansenistic  principles  now  became  far  more  wide- 
ly diffused.  The  authorities  of  the  Church  of  Rome 
thought  a Jansenist  was  not  necessarily  a heretic ; the 
schools  of  Port- Royal  flourished  even  more  than  before 
the  persecution  and  imprisonment;”  the  learned  Tille- 
mont  became  one  of  her  recluses,  and  Racine  one  of  her 
students.  The  incumbents  of  the  papal  chair  even  be- 
came the  friends  of  Port-Roval,  and  obtained  no  little 
aid  from  it  in  their  opposition  to  the  Jesuits,  which  In- 
nocent XI  more  especially  manifested.  This,  of  course, 
exasperated  the  Jesuits  more  than  ever,  and  the  great 
friend  and  protector  of  Jansenism  at  court,  the  duch- 
ess of  Longneville,  having  died,  they  succeeded  in  gain- 
ing over  Louis  XIV,  who,  it  is  said,  “abhorring  Jansen- 
ism quite  as  much  as  he  abhorred  Protestantism,  and 
very  much  more  than  he  abhorred  atheism,”  had  ab- 
stained from  open  violence  only  at  the  instance  of  the 
duchess  of  Longueville.  An  edict  was  issued  forbid- 
ding the  admission  of  new  members  to  Port-Roval,  and 
the  recluses  were  ordered  to  “quit  the  valley  of  Port- 
Royal  at  once  and  forever while  Dr.  Arnauld,  the 
principal  support  of  Jansenism,  was  obliged  to  flee  from 


3 

France,  and  to  seek  a refuge  in  the  Low  Countries,  where 
he  died  in  1694.  Another  and  last  personal  disciple  of 
Cyran  died  in  1695.  In  the  same  and  the  following  year 
passed  away  also  the  other  great  supports  of  Jansenism, 
and  it  was  already  whispered  among  the  Jesuits  and  at 
the  French  court  that  the  heretical  movement  had  been 
successfully  eradicated,  when  suddenly  the  crippled  Jan- 
senism received  a fresh  start.  A priest  of  the  Oratory 
of  Paris,  P.  Quesnel,  a man  of  learning,  zeal,  and  spirit- 
uality of  mind,  had  published  the  New  Testament  with 
annotations  which  were  of  a practical  and  edifying  char- 
acter, but  strongly  tinged  with  Jansenistic  doctrines. 
It  had  been  published  in  successive  portions  from  1671 
to  1687.  It  had  met  at  first  with  a most  favorable  re- 
ception. The  Sorbonne had  approved  it;  pope  Clement 
XI  had  commended  it;  Francois  Ilarle,  archbishop  of 
Paris,  an  avowed  enemy  of  the  Jansenists,  had  express- 
ed his  approbation  of  it;  Louis  Antoine  de  Noaillcs, 
bishop  of  Chalons,  subsequently  archbishop  of  Paris, 
and  finally  a cardinal,  who  was  then  a zealous  advocate 
of  the  Jansenistic  doctrines,  had  even  taken  the  work 
under  his  special  protection,  and  enjoined  its  perusal 
in  his  diocese.  It  had  been  and  still  was  eagerly  read, 
and  had  already  passed  through  many  editions.  An- 
other edition  had  just  (1702)  become  necessary,  which 
was  published  under  the  title  of  Le  nouveau  Testament 
en  Francois,  avec  des  ref  exions  morales  sur  chaque  ver- 
se, pour  en  rendre  la  lecture  plus  utile,  et  la  meditation 
plus  aisee.  The  author  had  never  signed  the  five  prop- 
ositions, and  his  confessor  now  put  the  qnestiou  to  the 
Sorbonne  “whether  he  might  admit  to  communion  a 
spiritual  person  who  had  done  no  more  than  maintain 
the  ‘reverential  silence,’  as  some  of  the  bishops  had 
done,”  and  the  reply  from  the  Sorbonne  came  that,  with 
regard  to  points  of  fact,  respectful  obedience  was  suffi- 
cient obedience.  But  hardly  had  the  cas  de  conscience, 
as  it  is  technically  termed,  become  known  at  Rome, 
when  pope  Clement  XI  condemned  it  in  the  most  severe 
terms  (Feb.  12,  1703),  and  complained  to  the  king  of 
those  who  so  thoughtlessly  stirred  up  the  old  controver- 
sy. Finally,  the  bull  1 'incam  Domini  (July  15,  1705) 
confirmed  and  renewed  all  preceding  condemnations  of 
the  five  propositions.  This  bull  was  accepted  by  the 
assembly  of  the  clergy,  and  registered  in  Parliament. 
But  with  it  the  Jesuits  were  by  no  means  quieted. 
They  desired  complete  victory.  Another  edition  of 
Quesnel’s  Ref  exions  morales  having  become  necessary, 
and  it  being  the  production  of  a decided  Jansenist,  pop- 
ularizing the  Port-Rovalists,  who  made  it  one  of  their 
duties  to  distribute  it  freely  among  the  people,  they  de- 
termined that  it  also  should  be  suppressed.  They  per- 
sisted in  their  efforts  to  secure  the  condemnation  of  the 
work  by  the  papal  see  until  at  last  success  crowned  their 
undertaking.  In  1708  Clement  XI  pronounced  against 
it,  and  in  1712  it  was  prohibited  by  a papal  edict  as  “a 
text-book  of  undisguised  Jansenism.”  By  this  time  the 
king  of  France  (Louis  XIV)  and  the  Jesuits  were  in 
league  together,  and  we  need  not  wonder  that  the  Jan- 
senists, as  opponents  of  the  Jesuits,  were  severely  dealt 
with.  Indeed,  it  is  asserted  that  this  bull,  as  well  as 
many  others  that  were  issued  about  this  time  in  Rome, 
and  aiming  at  the  French  Church,  were  one  and  all  dic- 
tated in  Paris.  Says  Tregelles  (Jansenists,  p.  38),  “The 
king  and  the  Jesuits  procured  whatever  bulls  they  want- 
ed from  the  pope,  and  when  they  did  not  sufficiently 
set  forth  the  Jansenist  heresy,  they  were  returned  from 
Paris  to  Rome  with  corrections  and  alterations,  to  which 
the  pope  acceded.”  No  wonder,  then,  that  the  bull  of 
1712  was  in  1713  followed  by  another  still  severer,  fa- 
mous as  the  bull  Unigenitus,  by  which  ivere  condemned 
all  of  the  writings  of  Quesnel,  and  all  that  had  ever  been 
or  might  ever  be  written  in  their  defence.  It  also  sin- 
gled out  101  propositions  from  the  works  of  Quesnel 
“as  false,  captious,  evil  sounding,  offensive  to  pious  (!) 
ears,  scandalous,  pernicious,  rash,  and  injurious  to  the 
Church  and  its  customs;  contumelious,  not  against  the 
Church  merely,  but  also  against  the  secular  authorities ; 


774 


JANSEN 


JANSEN 


seditious,  impious,  blasphemous,  suspected  of  heresy, 
and  also  savoring  of  heresy  itself;  also  favoring  here- 
tics; heresies,  and  schism,  erroneous,  nearly  allied  to 
heresy,  often  condemned;  and,  furthermore,  also  heret- 
ical ; and  sundry  heresies,  especially  those  contained  in 
t lie  well-known* propositions  of  Jansenius,  and  that,  too, 
in  the  sense  in  which  those  ivere  condemned.”  The 
hull  did  not  specify  which  of  the  propositions  belonged 
severally  to  each  of  these  heads  of  condemnation. . “ This 
was  the*  triumph  of  doctrinal  Jesuitism : Le  Tellier,  the 
king’s  Jesuit  confessor,  arranged  the  terms  of  the  bull. 
It  seemed  as  if  every  feeling  of  piety  towards  God,  and 
every  apprehension  of  his  grace,  was  to  be  extinguished  , 
throughout  the  Papal  Church— as  if  all  who  adhered  at 
all  to  many  doctrines  that  had  been  regarded  as  ortho- 
dox were  to  have  their  feelings  and  their  consciences 
outraged.”  But  the  Gallican  clergy  was  by  no  means 
agreed  as  to  the  acceptance  of  the  bull,  although  the 
Jesuits  earnestly  pressed  it.  Some  were  in  favor  of  its 
unconditional  acceptance,  others  desired  to  make  a qual- 
ifying declaration,  and  still  others  wished  the  qualifica- 
tion to  be  made  by  the  pope  himself.  After  much  dis- 
putation, the  king  himself  decided  the  matter  by  making 
submission  to  the  bull  binding  in  Church  and  State. 
Prom  three  to  four  thousand  volumes,  including  pam- 
phlets, relating  to  the  controversy  which  this  famous 
bull  provoked,  are  found  in  the  great  Parisian  library. 

The  death  of  Louis  XIV  left  the  fate  of  Jansenism 
still  unsettled,  while  it  also  caused  a relaxation  of  the 
repressive  measures.  The  regent,  duke  of  Orleans,  was 
urged  to  refer  the  whole  controversy  to  a national  coun- 
cil, and  the  leaders  of  the  Jansenist  party  appealed  to  a 
general  council.  The  Jansenist  party  thus  formed,  which 
numbered  four  bishops  and  many  inferior  ecclesiastics, 
were  called,  from  this  circumstance,  the  Appellants  (q. 
v.).  The  firmness  of  the  pope,  and  a change  in  the  pol- 
icy (>f  the  regent,  brought  the  Appellants  into  disfavor. 
Even  the  Parliament  of  Paris  was  forced  to  submit,  and 
registered  the  pap,  1 bull  in  a lit  de  justice  (June  4, 
1720),  although  with  a reservation  in  favor  of  the  liber- 
ties of  the  Gallican  Church.  The  Appellants  for  the 
most  part  submitted,  the  recusants  being  visited  with 
severe  penalties ; and,  on  the  accession  of  the  new  kiug, 
Louis  XV,  the  unconditional  acceptance  of  the  bull  was 
at  length  formally  accomplished,  so  far  as  the  general 
public  were  concerned.  From  this  time  forward  the 
Janscnists  were  rigorously  repressed,  and  their  great 
stronghold,  Port-Loyal,  having  been  already,  in  1709- 
1 1,  destroyed  by  connivances  of  the  kiug  and  the  Jesuits, 
a large  number  emigrated  to  the  Netherlands, where  they 
formed  a community,  with  Utrecht  as  a centre.  (See 
below,  Janscnists  in  Holland.) 

“During  the  18th  century  Jansenism  degenerated  in 
France.  In  1727  Francois  de  Paris  died,  and  was  buried 
in  the  cemetery  of  Kt.iledard,  in  Paris,  lie  was  of  an 
honorable  family,  and  had  early  shown  a religious  turn 
of  mind.  11  is  patrimony  he  bestowed  upon  the  poor, 
and  earned  his  livelihood  by  weaving  hose.  In  1720,  at 
the  age  of  thirty,  he  was  made  deacon  of  St.  Medard. 
Cardinal  de  Noailles  would  gladly  have  invested  him 
with  a higher  olhee,  but  he  declined.  In  1722  he  re- 
signed his  deaconsliip,  and  retired  to  a wilderness.  He 
soon  returned  to  Paris,  where  he  lived  in  seclusion  and 
poverty,  denying  himself  the  ordinary  comforts  of  life, 
and  shortening  his  days  by  self-inflicted  torments.  A 
magnilicent  monument  was  erected  to  his  memory  by 
his  brother,  a member  of  the  French  Parliament,  who 
subsequently  renounced  his  worldly  position  and  prop- 
erty, and  lived  a life  of  seclusion  anti  asceticism.  To 
the  grave  of  Francis  de  Paris  multitudes  flocked.  There, 
in  various  ways,  they  testified  their  superstitious  regard 
and  veneration,  and  there  marvellous  cures  were  claimed 
to  lie  wrought  and  miracles  said  to  be  performed.  Strong 
religious  emotions  were  manifested,  and  some  were  seized 
with  convulsions.  Some  were  favored  with  the  spirit 
of  prophecy,  and  predicted  the  overthrow  of  Church 
and  State.  Such  predictions  were  heard  until  within  a 


short  time  previous  to,  and  even  during  the  revolution 
of  1789.  As  late  as  1840  multitudes  of  religious  pilgrims 
still  resorted  to  the  spot,  on  the  anniversary  of  his  death, 
and  crowned  with  garlands  the  grave  of  De  Paris.  The 
superstition  and  fanaticism  which  prevailed  at  his  grave 
soon  after  his  death  were  not  wholly  confined  to  the 
common  people,  but  were  shared  by  a considerable  num- 
ber of  men  of  learning  and  rank.  Those  of  the  latter 
class  who  made  themselves  most  conspicuous  wrere  Hie- 
ronymus N.  de  Paris,  the  parliamentary  member  just  al- 
luded to  ; C.Folard,  widely  and  favorably  know  n by  his 
observations  on  the  history  of  Polybius;  and  Louis  Ra- 
silius  Carre'  de  Montgerou,  a member  of  Parliament,  who 
experienced  a wonderful  conversion  at  the  grave  of  this 
venerated  saint,  and  who  subsequently  narrated  the  mar- 
vellous phenomena  there  witnessed,  and  vindicated  their 
supernatural  and  divine  character.  These  superstitious 
and  fanatical  excesses,  combined  with  the  austerities 
and  even  inhuman  mortifications  practiced  by  many  of 
the  more  zealous  Jansenists,  tended  to  prejudice  the 
more  enlightened  against  their  cause,  and  greatly  weak- 
ened its  moral  power.  Petitpied,  Asveld,  Rollin,  and 
others,  attempted  in  vain  to  stem  the  tide  of  superstition 
and  fanaticism.  These  excesses  ruined  the  cause  of  the 
Jansenists — at  least  in  France,  or,  in  the  words  of  Vol- 
taire, * the  grave  of  St.  Francis  of  Paris  became  the  grave 
of  Jansenism,’  for  thenceforth  the  whole  ecclesiastical 
authority  lost  its  importance”  (Hurst's  Ilagenhcch , ii, 
420).  Yet  men  were  slow'  to  give  it  up  : they  clung  to 
it  even  in  its  death-hours.  Such  as  were  desirous  of  a 
reformation  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  secretly  oi 
openly  espoused  the  cause  of  the  Jansenists.  Those 
who  desired  to  see  the  arrogance  of  the  pope  cheeked 
and  his  power  restrained  favored  the  Jansenistic  cause. 
All  who  were  opposed  to  the  Jesuits  were  regarded  as 
Jansenists.  Enlightened  men  everywhere  sympathized 
with  the  Jansenists  in  their  efforts  to  restrict  papal  en- 
croachments and  the  demoralizing  influence  of  Jesuit- 
ism ; and,  when  its  sun  went  down  in  France,  the  friends 
of  reform  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  turned  towards 
Holland,  and  hoped  that  from  it  would  go  out  a great 
power  for  good.  The  most  distinguished  theologians 
of  Italy,  such  as  Zola,Tamburini,  and  others,  held  a reg- 
ular epistolary  correspondence  with  the  Jansenists  at 
Utrecht.  (See  below.) 

Had  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  been  susceptible  of 
a thorough  reformation,  it  is  reasonable  to  think  that  it 
would  have  been  effected  by  the  enlightened,  zealous, 
self-sacrificing,  and  persevering  efforts  of  the  Jansenists. 
They  were  true  sons  of  the  Church — they  sincerely  de- 
sired its  inward  and  outward  prosperity — they  cherish- 
ed an  almost  servile  devotion  to  it.  Though  their  sys- 
tem of  faith  and  morals  was  essentially  Augnstinian, 
and  thus  in  substantial  agreement  with  that  of  the  Re- 
formers, yet  they  had  no  sympathy  with  the  Reformers, 
and  their  minds  were  filled  with  prejudice  against  them. 
But  they  made  common  cause  with  these  in  tlicir  appre- 
ciation of  the  New-Testament  Scriptures,  in  their  efforts 
to  promote  their  use  among  the  people,  and  in  their  in- 
culcation of  holiness  of  heart  and  life.  To  their  praise 
it  should  be  mentioned  that  a Bible  Society  was  estab- 
lished by  the  Jansenists  of  France  as  early  as  1720,  which 
flourished  for  thirty  years.  Though  the  Jansenistic 
movement  was  unsuccessful  in  reforming  the  Romish 
Church,  yet  it  did  good  service  to  the  cause  of  Christ 
by  counteracting  the  prevalent  spirit  of  corruption,  and 
by  promoting  a spirit  of  sincere  piety.  The  piety  which 
it  fostered  was  never,  it  is  true,  as  enlightened  as  that 
which  prevailed  in  the  Protestant  Church : the  piety 
of  even  its  most  enlightened  advocates  was  not  wholly 
free  from  certain  admixtures  of  superstition,  fanaticism, 
mysticism,  and  asceticism.  We  add,  in  conclusion,  that 
Gallicanism,  as  revived  and  formulated  in  the  four  fa- 
mous propositions  adopted  by  the  Council  of  French 
Clergy  in  1G82,  was  also  under  great  obligations  to  the 
Jansenists. 

Jansenists  in  Holland, — Although  the  fanatical  ex- 


JANSEN 


775 


JANSEN 


cesses  to  which  Jansenism  had  gone  in  France  for  a 
time  darkened  its  prospects  of  ultimate  success,  it  must 
be  conceded,  even  by  Roman  Catholics  of  the  most  ill- 
tramontane  class,  that  Jansenists  in  the  18th  and  19th 
centuries  “preserved  a close  association  with  greater 
purity  of  morals  and  a deeper  faith”  than  their  oppo- 
nents the  Jesuits,  who  for  the  last  200  years  have  ap- 
peared in  behalf  of  the  infallibility  of  the  pope  only  to 
strengthen  and  to  preserve  their  own  existence  as  an 
order.  It  was  this  characteristic  feature  of  the  Jan- 
senists that  “everywhere  smoothed  the  way  for  them.” 
When  persecution  had  driven  them  from  France,  “ we 
find  traces  of  them  in  Vienna  and  in  Brussels,  in  Spain 
and  in  Portugal,  and  in  every  part  of  Italy”  (Ranke, 
Ifist.  Papacy,  London,  1851,  ii,  293).  Everywhere  they 
now  disseminated  their  doctrines,  but  it  is  especially 
in  Protestant  Holland  that  the  sect  has  been  most  suc- 
cessful, and  has  maintained  itself  to  our  own  day.  In 
the  days  of  Philip  II  of  Spain,  Utrecht  had  been  raised 
to  the  dignity  of  an  archiepiseopal  see  (A.D.  1557). 
The  other  United  Provinces,  on  throwing  off  the  Span- 
ish shackles,  became  Calvinists,  but  Utrecht  and  Haar- 
lem continued  faithful  to  the  Roman  hierarchy.  To 
this  part  of  a country,  where  the  evangelical  life  had 
taught  even  the  Roman  Catholic  communist  a spirit  of 
toleration,  the  Jansenists  directed  their  steps,  and  it  is 
here  alone  that  they  still  appear  as  a definite,  tangible 
body.  Their  organization  in  Holland  dates  partly  from 
the  forced  emigration  of  the  French  Jansenists  under 
king  Louis  XIV,  and  partly  from  the  controversy  about 
Quesnel  at  the  opening  of  the  last  century;  but  their 
success  as  an  independent  sect  (if  we  may  thus  style 
adherents  of  the  Roman  Catholic  communion,  but  de- 
fenders of  the  evangelical  doctrine)  dates  from  the  day 
when  the  vicar  apostolic,  Peter  Codde,  an  intimate  friend 
of  Arnauld,  was  suspended  by  Clement  XI  in  1702  from 
his  position  on  account  of  his  firm  adherence  to  Jan- 
senistic  principles,  was  allured  to  Rome,  treacherously 
detained  there  for  three  years  in  defiance  of  all  canon- 
ical^ regulations,  and  a certain  Theodore  de  Cock,  a 
friend  of  the  Jesuits  (so  a Jesuit  sometimes  designates 
himself),  appointed  in  his  stead.  The  chapter  of 
Utrecht,  thus  deprived  of  the  man  of  their  choice,  re- 
fused to  acknowledge  the  new  vicar  named  in  Codde’s 
place,  and  angrily  joined  themselves  to  the  Appellant 
party  in  France,  many  of  whom  had  come  thither.  The 
government  of  Holland  also  interfered  in  1703,  suspend- 
ed the  operation  of  the  papal  bull,  and  deprived  Uc  Cock 
of  the  archbishopric.  Codde,  on  his  return,  did  all  that 
he  could  to  repair  the  injuries  sustained  by  the  Jansen- 
ists during  the  incumbency  of  Ue  Cock,  who  had  made 
many  changes,  had  deprived  many  priests,  some  even 
of  thirty  years’  standing,  of  their  livings,  and  had  ap- 
pointed his  Jesuitical  friends  instead.  At  length,  in 
1723,  they  elected  .an  archbishop,  Cornelius  Steenhoven, 
for  whom  the  form  of  episcopal  consecration  was  obtain- 
ed from  the  French  bishop  Vorlet  (titular  of  Babylon), 
who  had  been  suspended  for  Jansenistic  opinions.  A 
later  Jansenist  archbishop  of  Utrecht,  Meindarts,  estab- 
lished in  1742  Haarlem  and  in  1758  Deventer  as  his  suf- 
fragan sees;  and  in  1703  a synod  was  held,  which  sent 
its  acts  to  Rome,  in  recognition  of  the  primacy  of  that 
see,  which  the  Church  of  Utrecht  professes  to  acknowl- 
edge. Since  that  time  the  formal  succession  has  been 
maintained,  each  bishop,  on  being  appointed,  notifying 
the  pope  of  his  election,  and  craving  confirmation.  The 
popes,  however,  have  uniformly  rejected  all  advances, 
except  on  the  condition  of  the  acceptance  of  the  bull 
Uuiyenitus.  But  the  Jansenists  have  steadfastly  re- 
fused to  comply  with  this  demand,  and  have  even  refused 
to  be  bought  over  to  the  Church  of  Rome,  as  was  at- 
tempted in  1823.  The  recent  act  of  the  Roman  see  in 
defining  as  of  catholic  faith  the  dogma  of  the  immacu- 
late conception  of  the  blessed  Virgin  Mary  has  been  the 
occasion  of  a new  protest.  Their  language  is  firm  and 
explicit : “ We  owe  it  to  ourselves,  to  the  Catholic  faith,” 
say  they,  “and  to  the  defence  of  the  truth,  to  reject 


boldly  the  new  ami  false  dogma  of  the  immaculate  concep- 
tion. We  should  therefore  fail  in  our  duty  if  we  kept 
silence  any  longer.  . . . Our  Church  (the  Jansenist  sect) 
has  often  appealed  to  an  oecumenical  council  to  be  law- 
fully appointed.  We  renew  this  appeal.  . . . We  make 
our  appeal  at  this  time  and  place  because  of  the  viola- 
tion done  to  the  faith,  and  the  injury  which  the  bish- 
ops have  suffered,  since  they  were  not  consulted  when 
the  doctrine  of  the  immaculate  conception  of  the  blessed 
Virgin  Mary,  mother  of  our  Saviour,  was  set  up  as  of 
divine  authority.  May  the  Father  of  lights  enlighten 
us,  and  work  his  will  in  us.  We  sign  ourselves,  with 
veneration,  very  holy  father,  the  humble  servants  of 
your  holiness.”  Then  follow  the  signatures  of  the  me- 
tropolitan archbishop  and  the  two  bishops.  This  letter, 
dated  Sept.  (1, 185G,  is  accompanied  by  a pastoral  exhor- 
tation addressed  to  the  faithful.  The  Romish  court 
replied  by  a formal  anathema  dated  Dec.  4,  of  which 
the  following  is  an  extract : “ The  sacred  congregation 
of  the  most  eminent  and  most  reverend  cardinals  of  the 
holy  Romish  Church,  inquisitors  general  throughout 
the  Christian  republic  against  heretical  perversity,  hav- 
ing heard  the  report  of  the  committee  acting  in  the 
name  of  our  holy  father,  pope  Pius  IX,  do  now  condemn 
the  views  published  by  the  three  false,  schismatical  bish- 
ops of  the  province  of  Utrecht.  . . . The  sacred  congre- 
gation forbid  all  persons,  of  every  state  and  condition, 
in  any  way,  and  under  any  pretext,  to  print  the  said 
document  containing  these  views,  to  keep  it  in  their 
house,  or  read  it ; every  one  must  instantly  give  it  up 
to  the  bishops  or  to  the  inquisitors.”  The  Jansenists 
are  genuine  Roman  Catholics,  but  they  refuse  a servile 
obedience  to  Rome.  They  have  also  come  to  deny  the 
infallibility  of  the  pope  altogether,  and  recognise  him 
only  as  the  “head  of  the  bishops,”  placing  the  highest 
authority  of  the  Church  in  a general  council.  They  eir- 
cnlate  the  Scriptures,  and  insist  on  inward  piety.  They 
denominate  themselves  Roman  Catholics  of  the  cpisco- 
' pal  clergy.  They  still  number  about  5000  souls,  and 
are  divided  over  twenty-five  parishes  in  the  dioceses  of 
| Utrecht  and  Haarlem.  Their  clergy  are  about  thirty 
l in  number,  with  a seminary  at  Amersfoort,  which  was 
1 founded  in  1726.  The  name  of  their  present  archbish- 
op is  Van  Santcn,  whom  Rome  has  again  and  again 
vainly  endeavored  to  induce,  by  the  basest  of  means,  to 
! sign  the  prescribed  formulary  (comp.  Tregelles,  Juusen- 
I ists,  p.  80  sq.).  So  iar  as  they  can  be  said  to  possess  a 
theological  system,  it  may  be  described  as  a compound 
of  Jansenist  and  ultra-Callican  principles. 

Other  1 1 Torks  of  Jansenius. — Besides  the  work  which 
gave  rise  to  the  sehismatical  movement  in  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church,  he  wrote  also  Oratio  de  interions  hom- 
inis  Reformatione  (1627 ; translated  into  French  by  Ar- 
nauld d’Andilly) : — A lexipharmacum  pro  civibus  Bilvce 
Ducensibits,  < id  versus  ministrorum  suorum  fascinum,  sive 
I Responsio  brevis  ad  libellum  eorum  provoccitorium  (Lou- 
vain, 1630):  — Spongia  notarum , quibus  Alexipharma- 
cum  aspersit  Gisbertus  Vcetius  (Louvain,  1631,  8vo): — 
Tetrateuchns , sire  comment  arius  in  quatuor  Kvungelia 
(Louvain,  1639,  4to) : — Pentuteuchus,  sive  commenturius 
in  quinque  libros  J doysis  (Louvain,  1641,  4to)  '.—Analec- 
ta in  Proverbia , Ecclesiasten,  Sapient iam,  JIabacum  et 
Sophoniam  (Louvain,  1644,  4to)  : — Mars  G alliens,  sen 
de  justitia  armorum  et  fedorum  regis  Galliee,  IAbri  II 
(4633).  See  Foppens,  Bibl.  Belgica ; Bayle,  Diet.  Cri- 
tique ; Dumas,  Ilist.  des  cinq  Propositions;  Levdeeker, 
Historia  .lansenismi  (Utrecht,  1695,  8vo);  Frick,  Ueber - 
setznng  der  Bulla  Unigenitm,  etc.  (Ulm,  1717,  4to);  Ge- 
schiedenis  ran  de  Christelijke  Kerk  in  de  18*  eemr,  door 
A.  ljpeij,  xii,  335-387 ; Harcnbcrg,  Geschichte  der  Jesn- 
iten;  Fontaine,  Mern.p.  serrir  a I'Histoire  du  Port-Roy- 
al (1738) ; Hirers  ecrits  touchant  la  signature  duformu- 
laire  (1706);  Hnlsemannus,  De  auxiliis gratia: ; Niemv- 
lands,  Vermaaklijkheden  nit  de  Kerkgeschiedenis ; La 
Constitution  Unigenitns  arec  des  Remarques  (Utrecht) ; 
Walehii  Bibl.  Theolog.;  Henke’s  Kirchengesch ichte  des 
I8'tn  Jahrhunderts ; La  Verite  des  Miracles,  operes  par 


776 


JANSSENS 


JANSEN 

Tintercession  de  Mr.  de  Paris  (1737 , 1745;  written  by 
Montgerou) ; Reuchlin,  Gesch.  von  Port-Royal  (Ilamb. 
1*39, 1844) ; Trait  e dogmatique  sur  les  miracles  du  temps 
(1737) ; Geschiedenis  der  Christ elijke  Kerb,  door  Profs. 
De  Groot,  Ter  Ilaar,  Kist,  Moll,  Nieuwenhuis,  etc.,  voi. 
v (Amsterdam,  1859);  Colonia,  Did.  des  livres  Janse- 
nistes , etc.;  Ste.  Beuve,  Port  Royal,  v ol.  i and  ii;  Tre- 
fjelles,  in  Ivitto’s  Journ.  Sac.  Lit.  Jan.  1851,  and  since 
in  separate  and  enlarged  form,  The  Jansenists  (London, 
1851,  12mo);  51  rs.  Schimmelpenninck,  Select  Memoirs 
of  Port-Royal ; Declaration  des  Eveques  de  Ilollande,  etc. 
(Paris,  1827) ; Gerberon,  Hist,  de  Jansenism ; Voltaire, 
Steele  de  Louis  XI V,  ii,  264 ; Rapin  (Jesuit),  Uistoire  de 
Jansenisme,  edit,  by  Domeneeh  (Paris,  1861,  8vo) ; Am. 
Bib.  Rep.  3d  ser.  iii,  689  sq. ; A m.  Theol.  Rev.  1860,  Aug. 
voL  ii.  See  Jesuits;  Port-Royal. 

Jansen,  Ellert,  an  Anabaptist  martyr,  suffered 
during  the  persecutions  of  the  Anabaptists  near  the  mid- 
dle of  the  16th  century  in  the  Low  Countries,  then  un- 
der the  government  of  Charles  V.  In  the  year  1549  he 
was  imprisoned  at  Amsterdam,  with  nineteen  other  An- 
abaptists. He  was  a tailor  by  trade,  but  his  mental  ca- 
pacity and  force  of  character  designated  him  as  a man 
well  qualified  even  for  one  of  the  learned  professions. 
While  his  other  friends  escaped  from  prison,  he  remained 
behind,  determined  to  profess  openly  his  peculiar  Chris- 
tian views,  or  die  in  defence  of  them.  51  arch  20,  1549, 
he  finally  suffered  the  so  much  coveted  martyrdom  by 
burning.  See  Brown,  Baptist  Mart.  p.  67. 

Jansenism.  See  Jansenius,  2. 

Jansse,  Lucas,  a distinguished  French  Protestant 
theologian  and  writer,  was  born  at  Rouen  about  1605. 
He  studied  theology  at  the  Huguenot  seminary  situated 
at  the  lately  celebrated  Sedan,  and  was  pastor  at  Rouen 
from  1632  to  1682,  when  age  and  infirmities  obliged  him 
to  resign.  At  the  revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes  he 
retired  to  Rotterdam,  where  he  died  April  24th,  1686. 
Jansse  was  a man  of  solid  learning  and  lively  imagina- 
tion. lie  made  himself  especially  conspicuous  by  a pam- 
phlet— La  Messe  trouvee  dans  VEcriture  (YiUefranehe 
[Rouen],  1647, 12mo) — in  which  he  ridiculed  Yeron  for 
having,  in  an  edition  of  the  Louvain  Bible  published 
at  Paris  in  1646,  translated  the  beginning  of  Acts  xiii,2 
by  “As  they  said  mass  unto  the  Lord.”  In  order  to 
avoid  persecution,  Jansse  destroyed  a large  number  of 
copies;  but  it  was  often  reprinted,  as  in  Recueil  de  plu- 
sieurs  pieces  curieuses  (Villefranche  [Holland],  1678, 
P2mo),  and  alone  under  the  title/,?  Miracle  du  P.Veron 
sur  la  Messe  (Loud.  1699, 12mo).  He  wrote,  also,  Traite 
de  la  Fin  du  Monde  (Rouen  and  Quevilly,  1656,  8vo) : — 
Le  Chretien  an  Pied  de  la  Croix  (Rouen,  1683, 8vo),  etc. 
See  ( hauffepic,  Did.  Hist. ; Haag,  La  France  Protest.; 
Hoefcr,  Xouv.  Bioej.  Generate,  xxvi,  354.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Jansseriboy,  the  family  name  of  several  Dutch 
theologians  quite  distinguished  in  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church,  mostly  as  missionaries  of  the  Dominican  order. 

1.  Cornelius,  born  near  the  beginning  of  the  pres- 
ent century,  was  educated  at  Louvain,  then  went  to  Ita- 
ly, and,  after  preaching  and  teaching  for  some  time,  the 
Congregation  of  the  Propaganda  sent  him  in  1623  to 
the  northern  provinces  on  mission  work,  and,  as  his  es- 
pecial field,  Saxony  was  designated.  Failing,  however, 
to  make  many  converts  in  this  country,  the  very  cradle 
of  Protestantism,  he  was  ordered  to  remove  to  Flanders. 
On  his  return  to  Italy  in  1637,  he  was  lost  at  sea  (Oct. 
11).  He  wrote  several  works  of  some  note,  mostly  of  a 
polemical  nature,  amongst  which,  of  especial  interest  to 
us,  his  Defense  de  la  Foi  Catholique. 

2.  Dominicus,  brother  of  the  former,  born  at  Amster- 
dam March  14, 1647,  was  also  dispatched  to  the  north- 
ern provinces  at  the  same  time  as  his  brother  Cornelius, 
lie  resided  at  Hamburg,  but  the  opposition  he  here  en- 
countered by  imprudent  conduct  finally  resulted  in  his 
expulsion  from  the  city;  and  although  the  order  was 
afterwards  revoked, by  reason  of  his  pledges  to  lie  more 
considerate  and  fair  in  his  representations  of  the  Reform- 


ers, he  quitted  Hamburg  in  1634  and  retired  to  a Domin- 
ican convent  at  Cologne.  In  1643  his  superiors  sent  him 
to  Amsterdam,  where  he  died  March  14, 1647.  While 
at  Cologne,  Dominicus  published  several  works  in  de- 
fence of  the  doctrines  and  usages  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church,  but  they  are  rather  of  an  inferior  order. 

3.  Nicholas  was  born  at  Zierickzec,  on  the  island  of 
Schouwen,  Zealand,  in  the  second  half  of  the  16th  cen- 
turj'.  After  having  taken  the  Dominican  garb  at  An- 
vers, he  was  appointed  regent  and  then  superior  of  the 
college  at  Lire,  in  Brabant,  and  afterwards  professor  of 
theology  at  Louvain.  His  superior  ability  pointed  him 
out  as  one  of  the  ablest  men  for  missionary  labor  among 
the  Lutherans  of  Denmark,  and  he  was  intrusted  with 
this  work.  After  a stay  of  several  years  in  Holstein, 
Norway,  and  other  northern  provinces,  he  went  to  Rome 
to  give  an  account  of  his  labors,  and  to  propose  the 
measures  necessary  to  re-establish  Romanism  in  those 
countries.  In  I623.be  was  again  dispatched  to  the 
same  countries,  this  time  reinforced  by  his  brothers 
above  mentioned.  He  failed,  however,  in  making  much 
of  an  impression  on  the  Protestants,  who  had  heard  and 
seen  enough  of  Romanism  and  its  workings  to  be  sat- 
isfied that  salvation  did  not  flow  through  that  channel. 
While  he  was  treated  with  the  utmost  liberality  by  both 
the  government  and  the  people  among  whom  he  came 
to  proclaim  the  doctrines  of  the  Roman  Catholic  relig- 
ion, the  converts  for  his  religion  were  few,  if  any.  But 
it  must  be  conceded  that  Rome  had  well  chosen  the 
man  who  was  likely  to  make  converts  for  popery,  if  such 
a thing  had  been  possible.  Nicholas  was  certainly  a 
man  of  great  erudition,  and  well  qualified  to  gain  even 
the  admiration  of  his  opponents.  He  died  November 
21, 1634.  His  works  are,  Panegyrique  tie  St.  Thomas 
d hi  quin  (Louvain,  1621,  8vo)  : — Vie  de  St.  Dominique 
(Anvers,  1622,  8vo) : — Defensio  Fidti  Cathol.  (Anvers, 
1631, 8vo),  etc.  See  Touron,  Ilommes  il lustres  de  Vordre 
de  St.  Dominique ; Hoefcr,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxvi,  355  sq. 
(J.  II.  W.) 

Janssens.  Erasmus  (Lat.  Erasmus  Johannes),  a 
Dutch  Unitarian  theologian,  was  bom  about  1540.  He 
was  rector  of  the  College  of  Antwerp,  but  his  advocacy 
of  Socinianism  obliged  him  to  resign  that  office  in  1576. 
He  was  next  rector  of  the  College  of  Embden  (Oost 
Frize),  but,  in  consequence  of  new  persecutions,  he  went 
in  1579  to  Frankfort,  and  thence  to  Poland,  where  he  set- 
tled at  Cracovia  in  1584.  Here  he  asked  to  be  permit- 
ted publicly  to  defend  his  opinions.  The  demand  was 
granted,  and  the  renowned  Faustus  Socinius  was  his  op- 
ponent. Their  conference  lasted  two  days  (29th  and 
30th  of  November,  1584),  and  passed  off  calmly;  but, 
both  having  subsequently  published  an  account  of  the 
proceedings,  they  accused  each  other  of  incorrectness. 
Janssens,  however,  on  being  offered  the  pastorship  of  a 
Unitarian  congregation  at  Clausemburg,  in  Transylva- 
nia, retracted  his  former  principles,  and  adopted  those 
of  Socinius  (q.v.),  who,  as  is  well  known,  by  his  great 
ability  not  only  silenced  all  the  anti-Trinitarians  that 
differed  from  his  views,  but  finally  even  gained  them  all 
over  to  his  side  (comp.  Krasinski,  Re  formation  in  Poland 
[Lond.  1840,  2 vols.  8vo],  ii,  366).  Janssens  is  supposed 
to  have  died  near  the  close  of  the  16th  century.  His 
principal  works  were,  Clara  Dernonst ratio  Antichristian 
immediate  post  modem  apostolorum  capisse  regnare  in 
Ecclesia  Christi  (1584, 12mo)  [this  work  gave  rise  to  the 
persecutions  which  obliged  Janssens  to  retire  to  Poland] : 
— Antithesis  doctrinee  Christi  et  Anti-Christi  de  uno  vero 
Deo  (anon.  1585,  12mo;  with  a refutation  by  Jerome 
Zanchio,  Nenstadt,  1586,  4to) : — Scriptum  quo  causas 
propter  quas  vita  ceterna  covtingat  complectitiir,  etc. 
(1589): — Fpidola  ad  Faustum  Socinum,  with  an  answer 
of  the  latter  dated  April  the  20th,  1590 : — De  Unigeniti 
Filii  Dei  existentia,  sire  disputatio  inter  Erasmum  Jo - 
hannem  et  Faustum  Socinum,  etc.  (Cracov.  1595, 12mo): 
— De  Quatuor  Monarchies  : — Commentarius  in  Apoca- 
lypsin.  He  published,  also,  the  Bibliorum  Pars  IV,  id 
est  Libri  Pi'ophetici,  Latina  recensio  ex  IJebrcca  facta. 


JANSSON 


JANUARIUS 


1\ 

Irevibusque  scholiis  illustrata  ab  Immannele  Tremellio  et 
Franc.  Junto  (Fraucf.  1579),  See  Diercksen’s  A ntuerpia 
Christo  nascens,  etc.,  p.  678;  Yriemoet,  A then.  Fris,  p. 
182;  Fauste  Socin,  Epist.  Ill  ad  Matt  A.  Radecium , p. 
386, 437) ; Sandius,  Bill.  A ntitrinit.  p.  72, 84, 87,  88, 105  ; 
Paquot,  Mem.  pour  servir  a I'hist.  des  Pays-Bits , vii,  328- 
333. — Iloefer,  Xouv.  Bioy.  Gener.  xxvi,  357.  (J,  N.  P.) 

Jansson,  Hans  Hendrick,  a Dutch  theologian, 
born  at  Siddebureu  Sept.  3,  1701,  was  educated  at  the 
University  of  Groningen.  His  theological  instructors 
there  were  Otto  Yerbruggc  and  Antonins  Driessen.  At- 
tracted by  the  spirit  and  fame  of  Yitringa,  he  resorted 
to  the  Franeker  University,  and  imbibed  the  spirit  of 
that  celebrated  divine.  After  becoming  a candidate  for 
the  ministry,  he  repaired  to  Utrecht  to  enjoy  the  in- 
structions of  the  distinguished  Lampe.  lie  was  settled 
successively  at  Dirksland  (1723-31)',  Embden  (1731-45), 
Finsterwohle  (1745-48),  Veendam  (1748-52),  and  Gro- 
ningen (1752-80).  His  tirst  work,  by  which  he  made 
himself  known  as  a worthy  disciple  of  Yitringa,  was  an 
exposition  of  the  Epistle  of  James.  It  was  commended 
b}r  competent  theologians  of  his  day  as  being  of  ster- 
ling merit.  He  occupies  in  this  work  high  evangelical 
ground,  insisting  not  on  a heathenish  morality,  but  on 
practical  piety.  In  1750  he  gave  to  the  public  an  ex- 
position of  the  Epistle  of  Jude.  In  this  work  he  op- 
poses the  enthusiasm  and  mysticism  which  prevailed 
around  him,  and  which  tended  to  subvert  vital  godli- 
ness. His  next  work  was  on  the  third  chapter  of  the 
Prophecy  of  Zeehariah.  These  were  all  quarto  vol- 
umes. Several  smaller  volumes  of  an  experimental  and 
practical  character  were  also  published  by  him.  He 
enjoyed  in  a very  high  degree  the  love  and  esteem  of 
the  congregations  which  he  successively  served.  He 
died  March  1,  1780,  universally  lamented.  See  B.  Gla- 
sius,  Godyeleerd  Xederland,  ii,  169  sq.  (J.  P.  \V.) 

Jansson,  Hillebrand,  a Dutch  theologian,  was 
born  at  Zandeweer  April  20,  1718.  lie  was  fitted  for 
the  university  by  his  father,  who  was  also  named  Hille- 
brand, and  who  was  successively  settled  at  Sebaldchu- 
ren,  Noordhorn,  and  Zandeweer.  The  younger  Hille- 
brand first  settled  at  Noordhorn,  where  he  remained 
from  1741-50;  then  removed  to  Ivropswolde,  where  he 
labored  till  1753,  when  he  accepted  a call  to  Yeemlam. 
This  was  at  the  time  one  of  the  largest  and  most  popu- 
lous parishes  of  Holland.  Here  he  labored  for  nearly 
half  a century  with  zeal  and  fidelity.  He  died  Oct.  12, 
1789.  His  name  is  famous  in  the  history  of  the  De- 
formed Church  of  Holland  by  reason  of  the  conspicuous 
part  he  took  in  the  controversy  on  the  sacrament  of  the 
Lord’s  Supper.  Francis  Gomar,  noted  as  the  oppo- 
nent of  Arminius,  was  one  of  the  first  to  give  a latitudi- 
narian  interpretation  to  what  is  said  on  tins  point  in  the 
Confession  of  Faith  (Article  35),  and  in  the  Heidelberg 
Catechism  (81st  Q.  and  A.).  According  to  him,  every 
one  who  openly  acknowledged  the  Christian  religion 
might  come  to  the  table  of  the  Lord  irrespective  of  per- 
sonal piety.  This  view  was  adopted  by  many,  and 
from  time  to  time  found  public  advocates.  In  1764  E. 
Van  Eerde  defended  it  against  J.  K.  Appelius.  lie  ap- 
pealed to  the  standards,  and  he  is  said  to  have  main- 
tained his  views  with  decided  ability.  Jansson  entered 
the  lists  on  the  side  of  Van  Eerde,  and  henceforth  be- 
came the  principal  combatant.  The  position  he  took 
was  this:  “Every  one  who  has  a historical  faith  con- 
fesses the  same,  and  deports  himself  inoffensively  and 
exemplarilv,  and  in  accordance  with  his  confession  not 
only  may,  but  also  must  eome  to  the  Supper;  and  in  so 
far  as  he  does  it  in  obedience  to  Christ’s  command,  in 
expectation  of  his  blessing,  promised  in  connection  with 
the  administration  of  the  Word  and  the  seals  of  the 
covenant,  he  does  not  sin  in  the  thing  itself,  although 
he  always  does  it  ill  as  to  the  manner  so  long  as  he  does 
not  do  it  spiritual^-."  He  seems  to  have  placed  the  ob- 
servance of  this  ordinance  on  the  same  footing  with  that 
of  hearing  the*Word  preached  and  other  acts  of  divine 
worship,  such  as  singing  and  prayer.  Appelius,  on  the 


'1 

contrary,  maintained  “ that  the  Supper  was,  according 
to  the  teaching  of  the  Scriptures  and  that  of  the  Re- 
formed Church,  instituted  for  the  regenerate,  who  pos- 
sess spiritual  life  and  its  attributes.”  This  controversy 
greatly  agitated  the  Church,  and  its  effect  was  in  some 
places  to  restrain  men  from  a public  profession  of  their 
faith,  and  to  deter  those  who  had  already  made  a pro- 
fession from  coming  to  the  communion.  A somewhat 
intermediate  view,  presented  and  advocated  by  the  ac- 
complished 1*.  Bosveld,  served  to  allay  the  agitation, 
and  finally  prevailed  in  the  Church.  His  view  is  sub- 
stantially this:  All  who  have  made  a public  profession 
of  their  faith,  whether  they  possess  the  internal  evi- 
dence of  having  been  truly  converted  or  not,  must  be 
regarded  as  believers,  and,  as  such,  entitled  to  and  bound 
to  observe  this  ordinance ; and  the  minister  must  invite 
all  such  to  eome  to  the  communion,  as  being  their  priv- 
ilege and  duty.  This  view  is  substantially  in  harmony 
with  the  theory  and  practice  of  most  evangelical  denom- 
inations in  this  country.  See  Geschiedenis  van  de  Chris- 
telijke  Kerk  in  de  18,f  eeaw,  door  A.  Ijpeij,  vii,  401  sq.; 
Geschiedenis  der  Xederlandsche  J/ervornide  Kerk , door 
A.  Ijpeij  en  J.  Dermout,  iii,  612  sq.;  Glasius,  Godye- 
leerd Nederlatul,  ii,  175  sq.  (J.  I*.  W.) 

Januarius  is  a name  under  which  some  fourteen 
martyrs  are  honored  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  A 
gens  Januaria,  or  family  of  that  name,  is  found  among 
the  old  inscriptions.  There  is  a monument  in  Turin  to 
the  memory  of  a certain  Januarius  Vint i us.  The  name 
seems  to  have  belonged  especially  to  Africa  and  South' 
ern  Italy.  Its  popularity  is  proved  by  the  large  num- 
ber of  martyrs  bearing  it,  which  is  surpassed  by  few 
others  (perhaps  Alexander,  Felix,  John,  etc.).  The  best 
known  among  them  is  St.  Januarius,  bishop  of  Bene- 
vento,  who  was  beheaded  in  the  early  part  of  tire  4th 
century  (according  to  the  Neapolitan  tradition,  at  I’oz- 
zuoli,  where  many  Christians  suffered  a like  fate,  in  305). 
The  saint’s  day  is  Sept.  19.  Januarius  is  the  patron 
saint  of  Naples.  11  is  head  and  blood,  preserved  in  vials 
and  looked  upon  as  holy  relics,  are  kept  in  the  chapel 
El  Tesoro,  in  the  cathedral  of  Naples,  where  they  were 
placed  Jan.  13,  1497.  According  to  tradition,  a pious 
woman  gathered  at  the  place  of  his  execution  two  bot- 
tles of  his  blood,  and  presented  them  to  bishop  Severus 
of  Naples.  On  three  festivals  each  year,  the  chief  of 
which  is  the  day  of  the  martyrdom,  Sept.  19,  and  on 
occasions  of  public  danger  or  calamity,  as  earthquakes 
or  eruptions,  the  head  and  the  phials  of  the  blood  are 
carried  in  solemn  procession  to  the  high  altar  of  the  ca- 
thedral, or  of  the  church  of  St.  Clare,  where,  after  prayer 
of  greater  or  less  duration,  the  blood,  on  the  phials  being 
brought  into  contact  with  the  head,  is  believed  to  lique- 
fy, and  in  this  condition  is  presented  for  the  veneration 
of  the  people,  or  for  the  conviction  of  the  doubter.  It 
occasionally  happens  that  a considerable  time  elapses 
before  the  liquefaction  takes  place,  and  sometimes  it  al- 
together fails.  The  latter  is  regarded  as  an  omen  of 
the  worst  import ; and  on  those  occasions  when  the  mir- 
acle is  delayed  beyond  the  ordinary  time,  the  alarm  and 
excitement  of  the  congregation  rise  to  the  highest  pitch, 
as  it  is  represented  in  such  a case  to  be  an  evil  sign  for 
the  city  and  the  people.  The  blood  is  exposed  three 
times  evenr  year,  particularly  on  the  first  Sunday  in  May, 
and  in  eases  of  especial  public  affliction.  The  process  of 
the  performance  of  this  so-called  miracle  is  kept  secret 
by  the  clergy  of  Naples.  Of  late  years  the  liquefaction 
of  the  blood  was  interpreted  as  a sign  of  the  saint’s  good- 
will towards  the  government ; but  it  has  done  so  for 
Ferdinand  II,  for  Garibaldi,  and  for  Victor  Emanuel  with 
equal  ease,  which  would  seem  to  indicate  that  the  saint 
is  indifferent  to  the  political  fate  at  least  of  his  devout 
worshippers.  Addison,  in  his  Travels , speaks  of  the 
performance  (in  his  notices  of  Naples)  thus:  “I  had 
twice  an  opportunity  of  seeing  the  operation  of  this  pre- 
tended miracle,  and  must  confess  that,  so  far  from  think- 
ing it  a real  miracle,  1 look  upon  it  as  one  of  the  most 
bungling  tricks  I ever  saw." 


JANUM 

Another  Januarius,  said  to  have  suffered  under  Felix, 
has  Jan.  7 assigned  to  him  in  the  Martyrologium  of  the 
Romish  Church.  Still  another,  said  to  have  suffered 
martvrdom  in  Africa  with  Paul  and  Gerontius,  has  Jan. 
19.  Veda  names  April  8 for  a Januarius  of  Africa,  along 
with  Macaria  and  Maxima.  July  10  is  kept  in  honor 
of  two  saints  of  like  name,  one  of  which  belonged  to  the 
seven  sons  of  Felicitas,  who  are  said  to  have  been  put  to 
death  towards  the  end  of  the  2d  century  at  Rome;  the 
other  suffered  martyrdom  in  Africa  with  Felix  and  Na- 
bor.  Their  remains  were  transferred  to  Milan.  July 
1 1 is  sacred  to  a Januarius  who  died  at  Nicopolis.  An- 
other suffered  martyrdom  at  Carthage,  together  with 
Philippus,  Catulinus*  etc.,  July  15.  A Januarius,  togeth- 
er with  Felicissimus  and  Agapetus,  fell  a martyr  under 
Decius  at  Rome,  and  the  Church  observes  Aug.  6 in  his 
memory.  October  13  is  the  anniversary  of  the  Spanish 
martyrs  Faustus  and  Januarius,  who  suffered  at  Cordova. 
On  Oct.  24  there  is  mention  made  of  a Januarius  who, 
after  being  long  persecuted,  was,  together  with  Felix, 
Audactus,  etc.,  put  to  death  and  buried  near  Carthage. 
The  island  of  Sardinia  has  also  a Januarius,  in  whose 
honor  they  keep  Oct.  25.  On  Dec.  2 we  find  a Janua- 
rius,  with  Severus,  etc.;  and  another  in  Africa  Dec.  15. 
Sec  Herzog,  Real-Encyklopadie , vi,  433  sq. ; Pierer,  Unir. 
Lex.  s.  v. ; Wetzer  und  Welte,  Kirchen-Ler.  v,  500 ; Zell, 
Romische  Epigraphik,  ii,88;  Monument  a Tcturinensia,  ii, 
119;  J. G.  Keysler,  Xeueste  Reisen  (Hanov.  1751) ; Acta 
Sancta,x ol.vi;  Chambers,  Cyclopasd.  s.  v.;  Broughton, 
Biblioth.  Hist.  Sac.  i,  502. 

Ja'num  (Heb.  Yanum',  0*12^,  slumber,  otherwise  for 
‘pr, propagation ; Septuag.  ’luvoup  v.  r.  ‘lepaiv,  Vulg. 
Januii),  a town  in  the  mountains  of  Judah,  mentioned 
between  Eshcan  and  Beth-tappuah  (Josh,  xv,  53).  The 
Ileb.  text  has  (as  if  Yanim',  D‘12>1)  by  a manifest 
error,  which  is  corrected  in  the  Masoretic  marg. ; many 
copies  have  Y anus' , 0*1  V*, flight,  as  in  the  Eng.  margin 
“Janus.”  The  Sv/iac  version  has  Yalian.  Eusebius 
( Onomast . s.  v.  ’I avovit)  mentions  a place,  Janua,  three 
miles  south  of  Legio,  but  admits  that  it  cannot  be  the 
locality  in  question.  M.dc  Saulcy  (Xar.  i,  437)  thinks 
the  site  may  possibly  be  marked  by  the  ruins  of  Jeuheh, 
at  the  foot  of  a hill  nearly  south  of  Hebron  ; but,  accord- 
ing to  Dr.  Robinson,  the  remains  are  little  more  than 
those  of  eaves  (Bib.  Res.  ii,  472).  The  associated  names 
appear  to  indicate  a district  immediately  north-west  of 
Ilebron  (Keil,  Comment,  on  Josh,  ad  loc).  The  position 
corresponds  with  that  of  a ruined  site,  RasJabreh,  mark- 
ed on  the  first  edition  of  Van  de  Velde’s  map  immedi- 
ately on  the  west  of  the  road  directly  north  from  He- 
bron to  Jerusalem,  and  adjoining  Khurbet  cn-Nasara ; 
but  the  second  edition  of  the  map  omits  both  these  sites, 
though  the  latter  is  explicitly  mentioned  in  the  Memoir 
(p.  247)  as  “ a ruined  village”  visited  by  him  as  well  as 
by  Dr.  Robinson  ( Researches , i,  317). 

Janus.  SeeJAxuM. 

Janus,  a very  old  Roman  divinity,  whose  name  is 
merely  a different  form  of  Dianus  (probably  the  sun). 
The  worship  of  this  divinity  held  a high  place  in  the 
regards  of  the  Romans.  “In  every  undertaking  his 
name  was  first  invoked,  even  before  that  of  Jupiter, 
which  is  the  more  singular,  as  Jupiter  was  unquestiona- 
bly the  greatest  of  the  Roman  gods.  Perhaps  it  may 
be  taken  as  a verification  of  the  tradition  that  Janus 
was  the  oldest  of  them,  aud  ruled  in  Italy  before  any  of 
the  others  came  thither.  (See  below,  our  reference  to 
Romulus.)  lie  presided  not  only  over  the  beginning 
of  the  year,  but  over  the  beginning  of  each  month,  each 
day.  and  the  commencement  of  all  enterprises.  On  New 
Year’s  day  people  made  each  other  presents  of  figs,  dates, 
honev-eakes,  sweetmeats,  etc. ; wore  a holiday-dress,  sa- 
luted each  other  kindly,  etc.  The  pious  Romans  prayed 
to  him  every  morning,  whence  his  name  of  Matutinus 
Pater  (Father  of  the  Morning).”  Janus  is  represented 
with  a sceptre  in  his  right  hand  and  a key  in  his  left,  sit- 


78  JAO 

ting  on  a beaming  throne  (probably  a relic  of  the  original, 
or  at  least  very  old  worship  of  Janus  as  the  sun).  He 
has  also  two  (and  sometimes  even  three)  faces  (whence 
the  expression,  applied  to  a deceitful  person,  “Janus- 
faced” [compare  Ovid,  Fasti , i,  135]),  one  youthful  and 
the  other  aged;  the  one  looking  forward,  and  the  other 
backward,  in  which  some  have  professed  to  see  a sym- 
bol of  the  wisdom  of  the  god,  who  beholds  both  the 
past  and  the  future,  and  others  simply  of  the  return  of 
the  year.  Although  it  is  related  that  Romulus  himself 
erected  a temple  to  Janus  in 
Rome,  it  seems  that  a spe- 
cial impulse  to  the  cultus  of 
this  god  was  first  acquired 
by  the  action  in  bis  favor  of 
N uma,  who  dedicated  to  him 
the  passage,  close  by  the  Fo- 
rum, on  the  road  connecting 
the  Quirinal  with  the  Pala- 
tine. This  passage  (errone- 
ously called  a temple,  but 

which  was  merelv  a sacred  _ . ....  , „T 

. . ' ^ Com  with  head  of  Janus, 

gateway  containing  a statue 

of  Janus)  was  open  in  times  of  war,  and  closed  in  times 
of  peace.  The  speculations  as  to  the  origin  of  this  Latin 
deity  has  been  very  extended  and  varied:  thus  some 
have  even  supposed  Janus  of  the  Romans  the  parallel 
of  Noah  of  the  Hebrews,  deriving  his  name  from  *j7?, 
wine,  because  Noah  was  the  first  planter  of  vines,  and  be- 
cause of  his  two  faces,  the  one  representing  his  sight  of 
the  world  before,  the  other  his  sight  of  the  world  after 
the  Deluge  ! See  Chambers,  Cydojmdia,  s.  v. ; Vollmcr, 
Worterb.  dev  Mythol.  p.  913  sq. ; Smith,  Diet,  of  Class. 
Biog. 

Janvier,  Levi,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian  minister,  born 
at  Pittsgrove,  N.  J.,  April  25, 1816,  graduated  at  Prince- 
ton College  with  the  highest  honors  of  his  class  in  1835, 
and  then  pursued  a theological  course  of  study  at  Prince- 
ton Seminary,  teaching  at  the  same  time  in  Lafayette 
College,  where  lie  so  ablv  discharged  his  duties  that  he- 
was  urged  to  accept  a professorship.  But  Janvier  pre- 
ferred the  missionary  work,  and  lie  was  licensed  and  or- 
dained by  the  West  Jersey  Presbytery,  his  father,  also  a 
minister,  preaching  on  the  occasion.  He  went  to  India, 
and  there  was  for  several  years  superintendent  of  the 
mission  press;  he  also  prepared  a translation  of  the  Pen- 
tateuch and  Psalms  into  Punjabi,  and  aided  in  the  prep- 
aration of  a Punjabi  dictionary  and  other  works  in  this 
department.  Impaired  health  obliged  him  to  seek  rec- 
reation, and  he  came  on  a visit  to  his  native  country  in 
1859.  In  I860  he  returned  again  to  the  missionary 
work,  but  he  continued  only  a short  time  to  serve  his 
Master  here  on  earth  : INI  arch  25, 1864,  he  was  murdered 
by  a .Sikh  at  Anandpore,  India.  “ He  was  a missionary 
of  a high  order ; learned,  wise,  gentle,  humble,  winning ; 
whose  loving,  benevolent  life  preached  most  touchingly 
the  Gospel  of  his  Master,”  was  the  testimony  of  one  of 
I the  papers  of  India  after  the  assassination  of  Mr.  Janvier. 
Another  colaborer  (the  Rev.  J.  T.  Gracev)  wrote  to  the 
Methodist , New  York,  in  April,  1864,  that  “great  excite- 
ment prevailed  among  the  people,”  and  that  Janvier’s 
funeral  “was  attended,  with  marked  respect,  by  thou- 
sands of  natives.”  .See  Wilson,  Fresh.  Hist.  A bn.  1866,  p. 
117  sq.  (J.I1.W.) 

Janvier,  Rene-Ambroise,  a French  Benedic- 
tine monk,  was  born  at  Sainte-Osmane,  on  the  Main,  in 
1613.  lie  was  one  of  the  most  distinguished  Hebraists 
of  the  17th  century,  and  is  celebrated  for  his  Latin  trans- 
lations of  several  Jewish  commentaries,  among  which 
are  a translation  of  Kimchi’s  commentary  on  the  Psalms 
entitled  R.  Bar.  Kimchi  Commentarii  in  Psalmos  (Paris, 
1666,  4to).  He  died  at  Paris  April  25, 1682.  See  Hoefer, 
A 'our.  Biog.  tlen.  xxvi,  363 ; Haureau,  Hist.  Litteraire  du 
Main,  ii,  115;  Hist,  litter.de  la  Congreg.  de  St.Maur , p. 
101. 

Jao.  See  Jehovah;  Valextixianism. 


JAPAN 


770 


JAPAN 


Japan,  a country  in  Eastern  Asia,  consisting  of  a 1 
great  number  (about  3850)  of  large  ami  small  islands, 
which  are  situated  between  30°  10'  and  54°  24'  N.  lat., 
and  between  147°  34'  and  104 3 30'  E.  long.  It  is  di- 
vided into  Japan  proper,  which  embraces  the  large  isl- 
ands Japan  or  Nipon  (with  Sado,  Oki,  and  Awadsi), 
Sitkokf,  and  Kiusiu  (with  a number  of  adjacent  islands), 
and  the  dependencies,  to  which  belong  Jeso,  with  adja- 
cent islands,  the  174  Kuriles,  the  less  known  (39)  Bonne, 
and  the  Lieu  Ivieu  Islands.  The  population  is  gener- 
ally estimated  at  from  35  to  40  millions;  its  area  at 
about  150,000  square  miles. 

The  history  of  Japan,  according  to  the  traditions  of 
the  country,  begins  with  the  dynasty  of  the  heavenly 
gods,  consisting  of  seven  generations,  and  reigning  from 
four  to  five  million  years.  It  was  followed  bv  the  dy- 
nasty of  the  earthly  gods,  consisting  of  five  generations, 
and  reigning  2,342,167  years.  The  native  population 
(the  Ainos)  was  at  a very  early  period  (according  to 
some  as  early  as  13.C.  1240)  pushed  back  by  the  immi- 
grants from  China.  Probably  Simnu  (the  divine  war- 
rior), the  founder  of  the  Japanese  empire,  with  whom 
the  authenticated  history  of  the  country  begins,  was 
also  a Chinese.  lie  first  conquered  Kiusiu  (about  B.C. 
667),  subsequently  Nipon,  where  he  erected  a palacious 
temple  (Dairi)  to  the  sun  goddess  (Miako),  and  consti- 
tuted himself  rider,  under  the  honorary  title  of  Mikado. 
When  he  died  he  was  regarded  as  a national  hero.  His 
successors  were  called  Mikado  or  Kin  Itey  (emperor) ; 
also  Ten  Oo  (Heavenly  Prince)  or  Ten  Zin  (Heavenly 
Child).  In  the  century  before  Christ  the  dignity  of  the 
four  commanders-in-chief  (Djogoon)  was  created  in  the 
war  against  the  Ainos.  As  chiefs  of  the  army,  they 
concentrated  the  executive  power  in  their  hands,  stead- 
ily enlarged  it,  and,  under  the  reign  of  a weak  Mikado, 
succeeded  in  making  it  hereditary  in  their  families. 
This  was,  in  particidar,  the  case  with  the  Kubo  (crown 
general)  Yoritimo,  who  had  rescued  the  country  from  a 
perilous  situation  during  the  administration  of  the  Mi- 
kadch'Koeyei  (1141-55);  he  added  to  his  title  Kubo  the 
word  Sanaa  (lord).  Henceforth  he  and  his  successors 
resided  in  Yeddo,  while  Miako  remained  the  residence 
of  the  Mikados;  his  dynasty  was  in  1334  supplanted  by 
another,  but  the  separation  of  the  ecclesiastical  and  sec- 
ular authority  remained  unchanged. 

In  the  middle  of  the  16th  century  the  first  Europeans 
visited  Japan,  which,  up  to  this  time,  had  been  only 
known  to  them  from  Arabian  geographers,  and  from  the 
accounts  given  in  the  13th  century  by  the  traveller 
Marco  Polo,  after  his  return  from  China.  Through  the 
efforts  of  three  runaway  Portuguese  sailors,  who  in  1545 
had  fonnd  a refuge  on  board  a Chinese  merchantman, 
and  who,  having  by  storms  been  driven  to  the  Japanese 
island  Yancga,  had  found  a kind  reception  at  the  resi- 
dence of  the  prince  of  Bungo,  in  Kiusiu,  a lively  com- 
mercial intercourse  arose  with  Portugal,  which  soon 
proved  to  be  of  immense  value  to  the  latter  country.  In 
1549,  the  celebrated  Jesuit  missionary  Francis  Xavier, 
who  had  converted  a Japanese  at  (loa,  arrived  in  Japan. 
During  a stay  of  two  years  he  visited  the  territories  of 
several  princes  and  founded  missions,  which  he  con- 
fided to  zealous  priests  of  his  order.  The  Homan  Cath- 
olic faith  spread  rapidly,  anti  soon  the  Catholic  Church 
numbered  about  250  churches  and  13  seminaries.  The 
Buddhist  priests  made  a desperate  resistance  to  the 
progress  of  Christianity,  but  a number  of-  rhe  Daimios 
favored  it,  as  they  expected  from  the  success  of  Chris- 
tianity great  commercial  advantages.  In  1562  the 
prince  of  Omura,  and  soon  after  the  princes  of  Bungo  and 
Arima,  embraced  Christianity,  and  sent  a splendid  em- 
bassy (embracing  also  three  princes),  with  rich  presents, 
to  pope  Gregory  XIII  and  to  king  Philip  II  of  Spain. 
But  when  the  suspicion  arose  that  the  Daimios  who  had 
embraced  Christianity  intended,  with  the  aid  of  foreign 
Christian  governments  and  of  the  native  Christian  pop- 
ulation, to  establish  their  entire  independence,  the  Kubo 
Sama  Fide  Yose,  an  upstart  who,  being  of  low  birth,  had 


in  1585  usurped  the  dignity  of  Kubo  Sama,  curtailed 
the  rights  of  the  subordinate  princes,  took  from  the  Mi- 
kado everything  except  the  administration  of  the  ec- 
clesiastical affairs,  and  issued  a stringent  edict  against 
Christianity,  which  had  been  favored  by  his  predecessor 
Nabnnanga.  The  edict  provided  for  the  exile  of  all 
the  missionaries  and  the  destruction  of  the  churches. 
It  was  not  executed  at  once,  but  in  1596  a real  persecu- 
tion of  the  Christians  began,  the  beginning  of  a relig- 
ious ami  civil  war  which  lasted  for  forty  years.  Fide 
Yose  died  in  1598,  while  preparing  for  the  invasion  and 
conquest  of  China;  ami  he  was  succeeded  by  the  guar- 
dian of  his  minor  son,  Yie  Yazoo,  prince  of  Mikava, 
whose  descendants  have  reigned  at  Yeddo  until  the  pres- 
ent day.  Yie  Yazoo  made  the  dignity  of  Kubo  hered- 
itary in  the  three  houses  founded  by  his  sons,  shut  the 
Mikado  up  in  his  palace  at  Miaco,  and  gave  to  the  coun- 
try a legislation  and  constitution  under  which  it  remain- 
ed at  peace  for  more  than  two  hundred  years. 

In  the  mean  while  the  Dutch  had  gained  a footing  in 
Japan,  and,  from  commercial  jealousy  against  the  Por- 
tuguese, aided  and  encouraged  the  Kubo  Saina  in  his 
proceedings  against  the  Christians.  With  their  aid,  at 
the  close  of  the  16th  century,  70,000  Christians  who  had 
intrenched  themselves  on  the  peninsula  Siinabara  were 
crushed.  Since  then  the  Roman  Catholic  faith  became 
gradually  extinct.  The  number  of  Christians  put  to 
death  has  been  estimated  at  nearly  two  millions,  and 
the  annals  of  the  Jesuits,  Franciscans,  and  Dominicans 
arc  filled  with  narratives  of  the  deaths  of  members  of 
their  orders  in  Japan.  Besides  Xavier,  the  greatest 
missionaries  wereYalignani,  father  John  Baptist,  a Span- 
ish Franciscan,  Philip  of  Jesus,  a Mexican  Franciscan, 
both  crucified  at  Nagasaki,  father  Charles  Spinola,  etc. 
The  last  Catholic  priest  who  entered  Japan  was  Sedotti, 
who  in  1709  found  means  to  land,  hut  was  never  again 
heard  of. 

The  hatred  of  Christianity,  the  religion  of  the  detest- 
ed foreigners,  induced  the  rulers  of  Japan  to  break  off 
all  intercourse  with  Christian  nations.  Even  the  allied 
Dutch  had  soon  to  suffer  from  this  isolation.  They  had 
to  give  up  in  1641  the  island  of  Firando  (north  of  Na- 
gasaki), which  in  1609  had  been  assigned  to  them  as  a 
trading  station,  and  to  remove  to  the  island  of  Desima, 
where  their  officers  were  subjected  to  a very  rigorous 
superintendence.  They  were  only  allowed  to  export 
annually  goods  to  the  value  of  750,000  florins  (the  Chi- 
nese 1,000,000)  in  two  ships  (the  Chinese  in  ten)  ; more- 
over, they  had  to  send  for  a long  time  annually,  and 
since  1790  every  fourth  year,  tribute  to  Yeddo.  All  the 
efforts  made  hv  the  governments  of  Christian  nations 
(the  English  from  1613  to  1623,  and  in  1803,  the  Rus- 
sians in  1792  and  1804,  and  the  North  Americans  in 
1837)  to  re-establish  commercial  relations  were  unsuc- 
cessful. When  China  was  partly  opened  to  the  Chris- 
tian nations  in  virtue  of  the  treaty  of  Nanking  (1842), 
king  William  II  of  the  Netherlands  (by  a letter  dated 
Feb.  15,  1844)  made  another  attempt  to  prevail  upon 
the  Japanese  government  to  open  several  ports  and  to 
allow  commercial  intercourse,  hut  again  his  request  was 
declined,  as  was  also  that  of  the  American  commodore 
Biddle,  who  in  1846  appeared  in  the  bay  of  Yeddo.  and 
proposed  the  conclusion  of  a commercial  treaty.  More 
successful,  however,  was  the  American  commodore  Per- 
ry, who.  towards  the  close  of  1852,  was  sent  with  a flo- 
tilla to  Yeddo.  After  long-protracted  and  most  difficidt 
negotiations,  he  concluded  on  March  31, 1853,  at  Kana- 
gava,  a treaty  of  peace  and  friendship,  by  which  the 
American  vessels  received  access  to  the  ports  of  Simoda 
and  Hakodade,  to  the  former  immediately,  to  the  latter 
from  March  31,  1855,  in  order  to  take  in  fuel,  water, 
provisions,  and  other  necessaries.  The  long  isolation 
of  Japan  from  the  Christian  world  having  thus  come  to 
an  end,  treaties  with  other  Christian  nations  soon  fol- 
lowed. Thus  England  obtained  the  conclusion  of  a 
treaty  similar  to  the  American  on  Oct.  14, 1854;  Hussia 
on  Feb.  7, 1855;  the  Netherlands  on  Nov.  9, 1855.  The 


JAPAN 


780 


JAPAN 


last-named  treaty  abrogated  the  disgraceful  stipulations  | 
concerning  Christianity  to  which  the  Dutch  had  former- 
ly been  compelled  to  submit,  and  an  additional  stipula- 
tion of  Jan.  30,  1856,  allowed  them  to  celebrate  divine 
worship  in  the  opened  ports.  In  1857  and  1858  new 
treaties  made  further  concessions  to  the  four  treaty 
powers,  and  the  same  rights  were,  by  a treaty  of  Oct.  9, 
1858,  extended  to  France.  From  Jan.  1, 1859,  the  ports 
of  Nagasaki,  Hakodade,  and  Kanagava;  from  Jan.  1, 
1860,  the  port  of  Negato,  and  another  port  on  the  west- 
ern coast  of  Nipon ; and  on  Jan.  1, 1863,  Hiogo,  the  port 
of  Osaca,  were  opened.  Foreigners  were  allowed  to  re- 
side in  these  places,  to  purchase  landed  property,  to 
build  houses  and  cnurches,  and  to  celebrate  their  divine 
worship;  from  Jan.  1,  1862,  they  were  also  permitted 
to  reside  in  Ycddo.  Gradually  other  Christian  nations, 
as  Portugal,  Prussia,  Spain,  and  Austria,  likewise  sent 
expeditions  to  Japan,  which  requested  and  obtained  the 
conclusion  of  similar  treaties. 

The  first  step  towards  opening  intercourse  with  for- 
eign nations  was  soon  followed  by  others.  In  1860  a 
Japanese  embassy  was  sent  to  the  United  States;  an- 
other visited  in  1862  the  London  Exhibition,  as  well  as 
courts  of  Europe.  At  the  Paris  Exhibition  of  1867  even 
the  brother  of  the  Tycoon  appeared  with  a numerous 
retinue.  A number  of  young  Japanese,  including  many 
sons  of  princes,  were  sent  to  the  schools  of  foreign  coun- 
tries, in  particular  those  of  the  United  States;  several 
distinguished  foreigners  were  called  to  high  offices  in 
Japan,  and  a Japanese  consul  general  was  appointed  for 
San  Francisco  in  1869. 

The  great  change  which,  during  the  period  from  1854 
to  1870,  took  place  in  the  relation  of  Japan  to  the  world 
abroad,  was  not  completed  without  producing  many  vi- 
olent commotions,  and  effecting  important  transforma- 
tions at  home.  The  policy  pursued  by  the  Tycoon  at 
Yeddo  -was  bitterly  opposed  and  resisted  by  many  of  the 
most  influential  Daimios,  and  a large  portion  of  the 
Japanese  people  at  large.  On  this  occasion  it  was 
found  out  that  the  European  governments  which  had 
concluded  treaties  with  the  Tycoon  had  been  greatly 
mistaken  concerning  the  true  nature  of  the  office  of 
Tycoon.  They  had  regarded  him  as  being  the  absolute 
ruler  of  Japan;  whereas,  in  fact,  the  Mikado,  although 
actually  confined  to  the  exercise  of  his  religious  func- 
tions, was  still  universally  looked  upon  as  the  head  of 
the  state,  and  the  highest  arbiter  in  all  quarrels  between 
the  Tycoon  and  the  Daimios.  In  union  with  the  Dai- 
mios,  the  Mikado  now  asserted  his  sovereignty  with 
considerable  success.  When  some  of  the  Daimios  com- 
mitted outrages  against  the  foreigners,  the  Tycoon  con- 
fessed his  inability  to  bring  them  to  punishment,  and  the 
European  powers  had  themselves  to  enforce  their  claims 
against  the  princes  of  Satsuma  and  Negato.  Ultimate- 
ly a tierce  civil  wrar  broke  out  between  the  Tycoon 
and  a number  of  the  northern  Daimios  on  the  one  hand, 
and  the  Mikado  and  the  majority  of  the  Daimios  on  the 
other,  which  resulted  in  the  abolition  of  the  office  of  the 
Tycoon  (1868),  and  the  restoration  of  the  Mikado  to 
the  full  power  of  actual  rider.  The  successful  Mikado, 
however,  did  not,  as  many  expected,  change  the  foreign 
policy,  but  showed  himself  eager  to  cultivate  the  most 
friendly  relations  with  foreigners,  and  to  elevate  the 
country  to  a level  with  the  most  civilized  nations  of 
Europe  and  America.  In  May,  1869,  a large  congress 
of  Daimios  w'as  held  at  Yeddo,  and  from  that  time  to 
the  middle  of  the  year  1871  many  important  reforms  in 
the  administration  have  partly  been  carried  through, 
partly  liegun. 

The  authorization  given  by  the  Japanese  government 
to  foreign  residents  of  a free  exercise  of  the  Christian 
religion  in  the  open  ports  was,  of  course,  eagerly  em- 
braced by  both  the  Protestant  and  the  Pom  an  Catholic 
churches.  Missionaries  of  both  established  themselves 
in  several  of  the  ports,  attending  both  to  the  religious 
wants  of  the  foreign  residents,  and  preparing  for  mis- 
sionary operations  among  the  natives.  The  appearance 


of  Roman  Catholic  missionaries  at  Nagasaki  brought  to 
light  the  fact  that  a number  of  the  descendants  of  for- 
mer Christians  in  Japan  still  secretly  adhered  to  the 
Roman  Catholic  faith,  and  now  hoped  for  permission  to 
exereise  it  publicly.  The  Japanese  government,  how- 
ever, did  not  give  the  expected  permission,  but  in  1867 
arrested  and  imprisoned  some  twenty  of  the  native 
Christians.  After  an  imprisonment  of  six  months,  the 
French  charge  d’affaires  obtained  in  December  their 
liberation.  In  the  following  year,  however,  the  perse- 
cution was  renewed  with  great  cruelty.  The  following 
is  one  of  the  official  decrees  published  by  the  govern- 
ment: “As  the  abominable  religion  of  the  Christians  is 
strictly  prohibited,  every  one  shall  be  bound  to  denounce 
to  the  proper  authorities  such  persons  as  appear  suspi- 
cious to  him,  and  a reward  shall  be  given  to  him  for  so 
doing.  Although  the  sect  of  the  Christians  has  been 
many  centuries  ago  persecuted  most  rigorously  by  the 
Kankfu  government,  its  entire  extermination  had  not 
been  arrived  at.  As,  however,  the  number  of  the  fol- 
lowers of  the  Christian  doctrine  has  lately  considerably 
augmented  in  the  village  of  Urakami,  near  Nagasaki, 
whose  peasants  secretly  adhere  to  it,  after  mature  con- 
sideration it  has  been  ordered  by  the  highest  authority 
that  Christians  shall  be  taken  into  custody,  according 
to  the  rules  laid  down  in  the  annexed  document  > ‘As 
the  Christian  doctrine  has  been  prohibited  in  this  coun- 
try since  the  oldest  times,  this  matter  ought  not  to  be 
lightly  treated.  Those  to  whose  custody  Christians 
shall  be  confided  shall  therefore  instruct  them  of  what 
is  right,  with  leniency  and  humanity,  and  shall  do  their 
best  to  again  make  good  men  of  them.  But  if  some 
should  not  repent  and  acknowledge  their  errors,  they 
shall  be  most  severely  punished  without  any  mercy. 
Those  whom  it  concerns  shall  keep  this  wtII  in  mind, 
and  denounce  to  the  proper  authorities  every  one  who 
shall  prove  incorrigible.  Those  men  (Christians),  until 
they  have  repented,  shall  not  be  allowed  to  have  any 
intercourse  with  the  inhabitants  of  the  places  where 
they  are  consigned.  They  shall  be  used  to  clear  land, 
or  to  work  in  the  lime-pits,  or  the  gold  and  coal  mines, 
or  for  any  work  their  officers  may  think  fit  to  employ 
them  on.  They  shall  live  in  the  mountains  and  for- 
ests. One  portion  of  rice  shall  be  allowed  per  head  to 
the  respective  Daimios  for  the  space  of  three  years,  to 
commence  from  a day  to  be  determined  hereafter.  They 
shall  be  brought  in  small  detachments  to  the  places  men- 
tioned below.  The  Daimios  shall,  as  soon  as  they  re- 
ceive the  information  of  the  arrival  of  the  persons  allot- 
ted to  them,  send  soldiers  to  take  them  over.  The 
above  imperial  orders  are  hereby  published  for  observ- 
ance. The  following  Daimios  shall  take  over  the 
Christians  allotted  to  them  at  their  respective  palaces 
at  Osaca.’”  This  decree  was  followed  by  a list  of  thir- 
ty-four Daimios  who  had  Christian  prisoners  allotted 
to  them,  in  numbers  varying  from  30  to  250  each.  The 
following  decree  was  posted  at  the  gates  of  Yokohama : 
“ The  Christian  religion  being  still  forbidden  in  the  same 
manner  as  formerly,  is  strictly  interdicted.  The  devil- 
ish sect  is  strictly  prohibited.” 

On  the  7th  of  July  114  native  Christians,  chiefly  men 
and  heads  of  families,  wTere  put  on  board  the  Japanese 
steamer  Sir  II.  Parkes  at  Nagasaki,  and  carried  away 
to  the  mines  of  the  north  for  penal  servitude.  The  pro- 
test of  the  consuls  at  Nagasaki  and  the  ministers  at 
Yeddo  wrere  of  no  avail.  The  Congress  of  Daimios 
which  met  in  1869  showed  itself  likewise  very  hostile 
to  Christianity.  Only  one  member  dared  to  defend  it, 
while  210  voted  for  a resolution  declaring  Christianity 
to  be  opposed  to  the  state.  Another  resolution  to  inflict 
severe  penalties  for  bringing  back  the  apostates  to  one 
of  the  religions  of  the  country  was  negatived  by  176 
against  44  votes. 

Japan  has  long  had  many  religions  sects  which  have 
lived  peaceably  together.  The  three  principal  sects 
are  the  Sinto  religion,  Buddhism,  and  the  sect  of  Siu. 
The  origmal  and  most  ancient  is  the  Sinto  or  Sinsyoo 


JAPAN 


181 


JAPAN 


sect,  which  is  founded  on  the  worship  of  spirits,  called  | 
in  the  Japanese  language  Kami,  in  the  Chinese  Sin, 
who  control  the  actions  of  men,  and  all  visible  and  in- 
visible things.  The  chief  of  these  spirits  is  Yen  Zio 
Dai  Sin,  which  means  Great  Spirit  of  the  Heavenly 
Light,  who  receives  the  highest  honors  from  all  religions 
parties.  Besides  this  sun-goddess,  thousands  of  inferior 
Kamis  receive  divine  honors.  Most  of  these  are  the 
spirits  of  distinguished  men,  who  were  canonized  on  ac- 
count of  their  merits.  Their  number  is  not  limited,  but 
the  Mikado  still  possesses  the  right  to  canonize  promi- 
nent men,  and  thus  to  elevate  them  to  the  dignity  of  a 
Kami.  The  Sinto  religion  has  five  commandments:  1. 
Preservation  of  the.  pure  fire  as  an  emblem  of  purity  and 
a means  of  purification;  2.  Purity  of  the  soul,  of  the 
heart,  and  the  body;  8.  Observation  of  festivals;  4.  Pil- 
grimages: 5.  Worship  of  the  Kami  in  the  temples  and 
at  home.  The  numerous  temples  (Mva)  contain  no  j 
idols,  but  large  metal  mirrors  and  packets  of  white  pa-  ( 
per  scraps,  as  symbols  of  purity.  The  priests  are  called  j 
Kaminusi,  or  keepers  of  the  gods.  They  live  near  the 
temples,  and  derive  their  income  chiefly  from  the  money 
offerings  made  on  feast-days.  Among  the  twenty-two  ! 
places  of  pilgrimage,  the  temple  Nykoo,  in  the  province 
of  Jsyay,  which  is  sacred  to  the  sun-goddess,  is  the  most 
prominent,  and  every  one  is  bound  to  visit  it  at  least 
once  in  the  course  of  his  life.  The  second  religion  is 
Buddhism,  which  was  introduced  about  532  from  Corea, 
but  received  many  modifications  in  Japan,  and  gradual- 
ly became  the  religion  of  the  vast  majority  of  Japanese. 
The  sect  known  as  Siuto,  or  the  school  of  philosophers, . 
comprises  the  followers  of  Confucius,  and  includes  the 
people  of  the  best  education. 

The  great  political  revolution  through  which  Japan 
passed  in  1*08,  by  the  abolition  of  the  office  of  the  Tv-  j 
coon  and  the  re-establishment  of  the  supreme  power  of 
the  Mikado,  was  accompanied  by  an  effort  to  effect  a 
complete  change  in  the  state  religion  of  the  country. 
An  American  missionary  writes  on  this  subject,  under 
date  of  Dec.  20,  1808,  as  follows:  “Here  the  Buddhist 
religion  is,  or  was,  the  established  religion,  and  the 
priests  have  a monopoly  of  burying  people,  and  pray- 
ing for  them  afterwards.  The  aboriginal  Sinto  religion 
has  fallen  into  disuse,  poverty,  and  consequent  disfavor 
and  disgrace.  This  state  of  things  commenced  about 
three  hundred  years  ago  under  Vie  Yazoo,  the  founder  of 
the  Tycoon  dynasty.  In  the  wars  which  he  waged  he 
was  often  beaten,  and  in  his  flight,  and  in  other  times 
of  calamity,  he  and  his  adherents  found  shelter  and  svm-  ; 
pathy  in  many  a Buddhist  monastery.  At.  last,  when 
he  reached  the  throne,  he  liberally  rewarded  all  those 
priests  who  had  befriended  him  in  his  adversity,  paying 
them  a fixed  sum  out  of  the  public  treasury,  and  be- 
stowing grants  of  land  to  be  held  as  temple  grounds, 
the  revenue  from  which  was  devoted  to  the  support  of 
the  temple.  From  that  time  Buddhism  flourished  in 
Japan,  and  Sintoism  decayed.  The  nation  followed  the 
example  of  the  victorious  Tycoon,  and  thus  Buddh- 
ism became  established  and  popular.  Still,  as  the  Ty- 
coon did  not  ignore  the  Mikado,  but  allowed  him  to  be 
the  nominal  head  of  Japan,  and  even  paid  some  outward 
respect  to  him,  in  the  same  way  Buddhism  did  not  ig- 
nore or  displace  Sintoism,  of  which  the  Mikado  is  pon- 
tifex  maximus.  Where  the  aboriginal  Sinto  gods  were 
worshipped  before,  the  Buddhist  divinities  did  not  re- 
place  or  supersede  them,  but  were  added  to  them,  and 
thus,  in  many  places,  a singular  union  was  effected. 
Buddhism  and  Sinto  divinities  are  worshipped  togeth-  ! 
cr,  and  the  priests  of  both  divisions  often  reside  in  the 
same  temple.  When  this  is  the  case  such  temples  are 
called  Ryobv,  i.  e.  ‘ union  temples.’  Thus  there  are  [ 
pure  Buddhist,  pure  Sinto,  and  the  mixed  or  union  j 
temples.  During  the  recent  revolution  a great  effort  ' 
has  been  made  by  the  adherents  of  the  Mikado  to  re-  J 
vive  the  ancient  faith,  and  cast  off  whatever  is  of  for- 
eign origin,  whether  derived  from  China  or  India.  Ef- 
forts are  made  to  eliminate  the  whole  mass  of  Chinese  i 


characters  from  the  language  and  literature  of  the  land, 
and  to  return  to  the  ancient,  simple,  and  alphabetical 
manner  of  writing.  The  same  principle  is  at  work  in 
the  reaction  against  the  established  religion,  which  is 
of  foreign  origin,  introduced  from  China  and  India  1500 
years  ago.  Since  the  Mikado’s  government  has  been 
established,  it  has  decreed  that,  where  Buddhist  and 
Sinto  divinities  are  worshipped  in  the  same  temple, 
the  former  arc  to  be  set  aside,  and  the  latter  alone  rev- 
erenced. The  priests  of  the  former  religion  arc  urged 
to  embrace  the  ancestral  and  national  faith,  in  which 
case  they  may  continue  to  hold  their  places.  At  vari- 
ous points  over  the  empire  there  are  deserted  Sinto 
temples.  The  ancient  god  holds  his  place,  but,  not  be- 
ing a popular  god,  his  shrine  is  forsaken  by  officiating 
priests  and  worshippers.  The  present  government  has 
made  inspection,  and  found  that  in  mail}'  cases  these 
shrines,  so  sadly  neglected,  are  the  shrines  of  the  true 
and  ancient  gods.  These  arc  to  be  re-erected,  and  en- 
dowed with  government  support.  What  has  been  taken 
from  the  disendowed  Buddhists  will,  no  doubt,  most  of 
it  be  given  to  the  Sintos.  Now,  when  one  of  these  old 
temples  is  re-erected  and  endowed,  the  office  of  priest  in 
it  becomes  desirable.  Not  only  has  it  a revenue  from 
government,  but  the  people  suddenly  wake  up  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  fact  that  this  same  forgotten  god,  in 
the  olden  time,  worked  wonders.  The  early  history  of 
the  divinity  is  involved  in  obscurity,  and  on  the  princi- 
ple ‘ Omne  ignotnm  pro  magnitieo,’  it  is  magnified; 
worshippers  bring  tlieir  offerings,  new  votive  tablets 
are  set  up,  and  the  revenue  hence  accruing,  added  to 
what  is  bestowed  by  government,  makes  a priest’s  office 
a desirable  one,  especially  as  he  is  exempt  from  all  mil- 
itary service.  Many,  therefore,  now  seek  to  obtain  this 
position;  but,  on  presenting  their  petitions  at  the  seat 
of  government,  it  is  generally  decided  that  it  is  desira- 
ble to  have  these  places  filled  by  adherents  of  the  Mi- 
kado from  the  south.”  In  1870  the  Buddhist  priests 
were  compelled  to  pay  to  the  Mikado  the  sum  of  8,000,000 
rios,  or  810,000.000,  for  the  privilege  of  remaining  in 
possession  of  their  temples  and  monuments,  and  of  ob- 
serving their  religious  rites  and  customs  without  restric- 
tion. 

The  reports  on  the  number  of  natives  who  desire  to 
reconnect  themselves  with  the  Roman  Catholic  Church 
greatly  vary.  According  to  a recent  (1870)  report  of 
the  Japanese  government  their  number  amounts  to  3000, 
of  whom  2000  were  at  Urakami,  near  Nagasaki,  100  at 
Omura,  and  1500  at  Fubahori.  Besides,  there  were 
Christians  in  Shimabara,  Amakusa,  llirado,  and  other 
places,  but  their  number  could  not  be  accurately  stated. 
There  is  a strong  force  of  French  Jesuits  at  Kanagawa. 
They  have  lately  opened  a school  for  young  men,  for 
the  purpose  of  teaching  the  French  language  and  liter- 
ature, and  the  sciences.  The  pope  has  erected  Japan 
into  a vicariate  apostolic.  The  Roman  Catholic  mis- 
sionaries assert  that  at  least  100.000  Japanese  would 
openly  join  their  Church  if  religious  toleration  should 
be  established. 

Protestant  missions  were  in  1870  supported  in  Japan 
by  three  American  denominations:  the  Presbyterian 
Church,  the  Dutch  Reformed  Church,  and  the  Protes- 
tant Episcopal  Church.  Several  missionaries  teach  sec- 
ular branches  in  the  government  schools.  Progress  has 
been  made  with  the  translation  of  the  Bible  into  Japan- 
ese, and  Bible-classes  have  been  formed,  but  up  to  1*71 
but  few  of  the  natives  had  made  a profession  of  Chris- 
tianity. The  Presbyterian  missionaries,  who  had  sta- 
tions at  Yokohama  (begun  in  1*50)  and  Yeddo  (begun 
in  1869),  had,  according  to  their  report  of  1870.  baptized 
three  natives.  The  Protestant  Episcopal  Church  sup- 
ported one  missionary  bishop  and  one  missionary.  See 
Charleroix  et  Crasset,  Histoire  lie  Japan  (Paris,  1754); 
Sir  Rutherford  Alcock,  The  Capital  of  the  Tycoon  (Loud. 
1863);  Siebold,  Xipon ; Archie  zur  Besckreibung  von 
Japan  (Levd.  1832-51);  American  Annual  Cyclopedia , 
1868,1870.'  (A.J.S.) 


JAPHA 


JAPHLET 


Japha.  See  J Arm  a,  3. 

Ja'pheth  (Heb.  Ye’pheth,  r?*,  in  pause  Ya'pheth, 
£“2^  wi despreading  [[comp.  Gen.  ix,  2/  J,  although  some 
make  it  signify  fair,  referring  to  the  light  complexion 
of  the  Japhethites;  Sept,  ’leapt*;  Josephus  ’laiptSag, 
j nfm  4^  i)}  one  of  the  three  sons  of  Noah,  mentioned 
last  in  order  (Gen.  v,  32 ; vi,  10 ; vii,  lo ; ix,  18 ; x,  1 ; 1 
Chron.  i.  4),  although  it  appears  from  Gen.  x,  21  (comp, 
ix.  24)  that  he  was  the  eldest  of  Noah’s  sons,  born  one 
hundred  years  before  the  flood  (Miehaelis,  Spicil.  ii,  60). 
B.C.  2016.  He  and  his  wife  were  two  of  the  eight  per- 
sons (1  Pet.  iii,  20)  preserved  in  the  ark  (Gen.  vii,  7). 
In  Gen.  x,  2 sq.he  is  called  the  progenitor  of  the  exten- 
sive tribes  in  the  west  (of  Europe)  and  north  (of  Asia)— 
of  the  Armenians,  Medes,  Greeks,  Thracians,  etc.  (comp. 
Syncellus,  Chron.  p.49;  Mala,  Chronogr.  p.  1 0 ; see  Tuch 
on  ver.  27).  See  Ethnography.  Ue  Wette  ( Kritik , p. 
72)  justly  repudiates  the  opinion  of  the  Targumim,  both 
Jonathan  and  Hieros.,wlio  make  Japheth  the  progeni- 
tor of  the  African  tribes  also.  The  Arabian  traditions 
(D'llerbelot,  Biblioth.  Orient .)  attribute  to  Japheth  won- 
derful powers  (Weil , Biblische  Leyenden,  viii,  46),  and 
enumerate  eleven  of  his  sons,  the  progenitors  of  as  many 
Asiatic  nations,  viz.  Gin  or  Dsliin  (Chinese),  Seklah 
(Slavonians),  Manshuge,  Gomari,  Turk  (Turks),  Kha- 
lage,  Khozar,  Ros  (Russians),  Sussan,  Gaz,  and  Torage. 
In  these  traditions  he  is  called  Aboultierk  (Hottinger, 
Hist.  Orient,  p.  37).  To  the  seven  sons  of  Japheth  men- 
tioned in  Gen.  x,  2 and  1 Chron.  i,  5,  the  Sept,  and  Etise- 
bius  add  an  eighth,  Elisha,  though  not  found  in  the  text. 
Some  (Bnttmann,  J Iytholog.  i,  222 ; Bochart,  Plied,  iii,  1 ; 
andllnsse,  Entdeckung,  ii,  131)  identify  Japheth  with  the 
’ lenriToc  of  Greek  fable,  the  depository  of  many  ethno- 
graphical traditions  (see  Smith’s  Bid.  of  Classic.  Biogr. 
s.  v.  Japetns),  while  others,  again,  connect  him  with  Ke- 
rens, mentioned  by  the  ancient  historian  Sanchoniathon. 
His  act  of  filial  piety,  in  conjunction  with  Shem,  as  re- 
lated in  Gen.  ix,  20-27  (where  some  understand  the 
clause,  “He  shall  dwell  in  the  tents  of  Shem,”  to  refer 
to  God,  and  not  to  Japheth),  became  the  occasion  of  the 
prophecy  of  the  extension  of  his  posterity  (see  Heng- 
stenberg’s  Christology,  i,  42).  See  Shem. 

Japheth  ben-Ali  ha-Levi  (called  in  Arabic 
Abu-Ali  I I assan  ben-Ali  cd-Levi  al-Bozrii),  a very  able 
Karaite  grammarian  and  commentator  on  the  Old  Test., 
flourished  at  Bassra,  in  Arabia,  during  the  latter  half 
of  the  10th  century.  lie  is  reputed  to  have  written  a 
history  of  the  Karaites  (q.  v.),  of  which  traces  still  re- 
main (see  Rule,  Karaites,  p.  106),  and  commentaries 
which  cover  twenty  MS.  volumes  preserved  in  Paris 
and  Leyden.  He  distinguished  himself  by  his  literary 
labors,  and  obtained  the  honorable  appellation  of  Tsb’CSl 
the  great  teacher,  and  a place  among  those  who  are 
mentioned  in  the  Karaite  Prayer-book.  The  late  emi- 
nent Orientalist  Munk  brought,  in  1841,  from  Egypt  to 
the  royal  library  at  Paris,  eleven  volumes  of  this  commen- 
tary, five  of  which  are  on  Genesis  and  many  sections  of 
Exodus,  Leviticus,  and  Numbers;  two  volumes  are  on 
the  Psalms,  one  is  on  Proverbs,  and  one  on  the  Five  Me- 
gilloth.  They  are  written  in  Arabic,  preceded  by  the 
Hebrew  text  and  an  Arabic  translation.  The  indefati- 
gable Pinsker  has  examined  the  entire  twenty  volumes, 
and  made  extracts  from  them.  This  work,  of  such  gi- 
gantic magnitude,  although  it  has  exercised  great  in- 
fluence on  the  development  of  Biblical  exegesis  (as  may 
be  concluded  from  the  fact  that  Aben-Ezra  had  them  con- 
stantly before  him  when  writing  his  expositions  of  the 
O.T.,  and  that  he  quotes  them  with  the  greatest  re- 
• spect),  has  not  as  yet  been  published,  and  wc  have  still 
only  the  fragments  which  Aben-Ezra  gives  ns.  Japheth 
was  also  an  extensive  polemical  writer,  and  engaged  in 
controversies  with  the  disciples  of  Saadia  (q.  v.) ; but 
for  polemics  he  does  not  seem  to  have  possessed  the 
proper  requisites.  See  Gilisburg  in  Kitto,  s.  v.;  Jost, 
Israelitische  A malm  (Frankfort-on-tlie-Main,  1841),  p. 
1 6 ; Barges,  Rabbi  Japhet  ben-11 eli  Bassorensis  Karaitis 


in  Psal.  Commentarii  Prefatio  (1846) ; Pinsker,  Likkute 
Kadmoniot  (Vienna,  1863),  p.  169;  Supplement,  p.  181, 
etc.;  Gratz,  Geschichte  der  J uden,  v,  342.  (J.  H.W.) 

Japheth  ben-Said,  a descendant  of  the  above, 
and  another  great  Karaite,  in  all  probability  also  born 
at  Bassra,  flourished  about  1160-1200.  Besides  the  cel- 
ebrated work  in  defence  of  Karaism  entitled  Ha- A takat 
ha-Tora,  which  he  is  supposed  to  have  written  about 
1167,  he  wrote  commentaries  on  the  Pentateuch  and 
other  books  of  the  O.  T.  Pinsker  fancies,  and  not  with- 
out reason,  that  this  is  the  Japheth  whom  the  Karaites 
describe  as  the  instructor  of  Aben-Ezra,  and  asserts  that 
Ezra’s  quotations  from  the  commentary  on  Exod.  iv,  20 ; 
viii,  13 ; ix,  16 ; x,  5,  21,  belong  to  this  Japheth,  and  not 
to  the  former.  His  commentaries  are  still  in  MS.,  both 
in  the  Paris  and  Leyden  libraries.  See  Pinsker,  Likkute 
Kadmoniot,  p.  222  sq.  and  185  sq.,  Supplement ; Griitz, 
Geschichte  der  Juden,  vi,  305  sq.;  Kitto,  Bill.  Cyclop,  s. 
v.  See  Karaites. 

Japhi'a  (llcb.  Yaphi'a,  5*1Sn,  splendid ,*  Sept,  Ta- 
0(6  v.  r.  To0aycfi  and  d>ayyai,  but  ’H016  in  2 Sam.  v, 
15),  the  name  of  two  men,  and  also  of  a place. 

1.  The  king  of  Lachish,  who  joined  the  confederacy 
at  the  instance  of  Adoni-zedek  against  Joshua,  but  was 
defeated  and  slain  after  confinement  in  the  cave  of  Mak- 
kedah  (Josh,  x,  3 sq.).  B.C.  1618. 

2.  One  of  the  sons  of  David  (q.  v.)  by  some  one  of 
his  full  wives  whose  name  is  not  given,  born  at  Jerusa- 
lem (2  Sam.  v,  15;  1 Chron.  iii,  7 ; xiv,  6).  B.C.  post 
1046. 

3.  A town  on  the  eastern  part  of  the  southern  boun- 
dary of  Zebulon,  situated  on  high  ground  between  Da- 
berath  and  Gath-hepher  on  the  north  (Josh,  xix,  12). 
Relarnl  ( Pulcest . p.  826)  thinks  it  is  the  town  Sycamimtm 
(j)  ^.vKdfiivog  or  'S.vKugivujv,  Steph.  Bvz.  'ZvKctpivov), 
on  the  Mediterranean,  opposite  Carmel,  between  Ptole- 
mais  and  Caesarea  (Pliny,  v,  15, 5),  according  to  the  I tin. 
Anton,  twenty  Roman  miles  from  the  latter;  called  Ile- 
pha  ('H0d)  in  the  time  of  Eusebius  ( Onom . s.  v.  ’Ia<pk8), 
and  still  extant  (Golii  Xot.  ad  Alfrag.  p.  132)  under  the 
name  of  Haifa  (Robinson’s  Researches,  iii,  194).  lie 
also  regards  it  as  the  Jebba  of  Pliny  (v,  18).  which  Ge- 
senins,  however  ( Thesaur . p.  613),  shows  is  distinguish- 
ed from  Sycaminum.  This  position  does  not  agree  with 
the  requirements  of  the  text.  The  place  has  been  iden- 
tified by  Dr.  Robinson  ( Researches , iii,  200)  with  the 
modern  village  Yafa,  about  a mile  and  a half  south- 
west of  Nazareth  (Schubert,  Reise,  iii,  203),  where  the 
Italian  monks  fix  the  residence  of  the  apostle  James 
(Raumer,  Paldst.  p.  127).  See  Quaresmius,  Eluciclatio, 
ii,  843;  and  Early  Travels,  p.  186:  Maumleville  calls  it 
the  “Castle  of  Saffra.”  So,  too,  Von  HartT,  A.D.  1498 
(Pilgerfahrt,  p.  195).  Although  situated  in  a valley, 
the  tribal  line  must  have  crossed  (“went  up,”  text  of 
Joshua)  the  hills  on  the  south  of  it  (lveil,  Comment,  ad 
loc.).  It  contains  about  thirty  houses,  with  the  remains 
of  a church,  and  has  a few  single  palm-trees.  Eusebius 
and  Jerome  doubtless  refer  to  this  place,  as  “Japhet,  in 
the  tribe  of  Zebulon,  still  called  Jophe,  or  the  ascent  of 
.Japho”  (Onom.  s.  v.  Japhic).  The  Japha  (Tn0a)  forti- 
fied by  Josephus  (Life,  37,  45)  was  probably  the  same, 
a large  and  strong  village  of  Galilee,  afterwards  cap- 
tured By  Trajan  and  Titus,  under  the  orders  of  Vespa- 
sian. In  the  storm  and  sack  of  the  place,  according  to 
the  same  writer,  15,000  of  the  inhabitants  were  put  to 
the  sword,  and  2130  made  captives  (lFur,  ii,  20,  6;  iii, 
7,  31).  With  this  location  De  Saulcv  (Xurrat.  i,  73) 
and  Schwarz  ( Palestine , p.  170)  coincide,  as  also  Van  de 
Velde  (Memoir,  p.  321)  and  Porter  (Handbook,  p.  385). 

Japh'let  (Heb.  Yaphlet',  deliverer ; Sept. 

T«0n\>)r),  a son  of  Heber  and  great-grandson  of  Asher; 
several  of  his  sons  are  also  named  (1  Chron.  vii,  32,  33). 
B.C.  between  1856  and  1658.  It  appears  to  have  been 
a branch  of  his  descendants  (Japhletites,  Heb. 

Yaphleti',  Sept.  'I a<p\r)ri,  Vulg.  Jephleti,  Auth.  Version 
“ Japhleti”)  that  are  mentioned  in  Josh,  xvi,  3 as  hav- 


JAPHLETI 


783 


JARIB 


ing  settled  along  the  border  between  Ephraim  and  Dan, 
near  (north  of)  the  present  Jaffa  road,  apparently  east 
of  Beth-horon,  possibly  at  the  present  Beit  Unia.  Olli- 
ers, however,  regard  the  name  in  this  locality  as  a trace 
of  one  of  the  petty  tribes  of  aboriginal  Canaanites  (com- 
pare the  Arehite,  “Archi,”  in  the  verse  preceding,  and  in 
2 Sam.  xv,  32;  the  Ophnite,  “Ophni,”  Josh,  xviii,  24). 

Japh'leti  (Josh,  xvi,  3).  See  Jafiilet. 

J a'pho  (Josh,  xix,  4G).  See  Joppa. 

Jaquelot.  See  Jacquelot. 

Ja'rah  (1  Chron.  ix,  42).  See  Jeiioadail 

Jarclii.  See  Kasiii. 

Jard,  Francois,  a very  celebrated  French  Jansenist 
preacher,  born  at  Bollene,  near  Avignon,  March  3, 1G75, 
was  one  of  the  appellants  against  the  bull  Unigenitus. 
He  died  April  10,  17G8.  Besides  his  sermons,  he  pub- 
lished La  religion  Chretienne  meditee  dans  le  veritable 
esprit  de  ses  maximes  (Paris,  1743,  17G3,  G vols.  12mo; 
new  ed.  Lyons,  1819,  G vols.  12mo).  See  Hoefer,  A out*. 
Biog.  Generate,  xxvi,  372. 

Ja'reb  (Heb.  Yareb',  i.  q.  contentious, 

i.  e.  an  adversary)  occurs  as  a proper  name  in  the  Auth. 
Vers,  of  Hos.  v,  13;  x,  6,  where  a “king  Jareb” 

— 'n'1,  Sept.  fiaaiXevg  lapeip,  Vnlg.  rex  ultor)  is  spoken 
of  as  the  false  refuge  and  final  subjugator  of  the  king- 
dom of  Israel.  It  probably  is  a figurative  title  of  the 
king  of  Assyria  (mentioned  in  the  same  connection), 
who,  like  the  Persian  monarehs,  affected  the  title  of 
“the  great  king”  (Miehaelis,  Supplem.,  actually  derives 
it  from  the  Syriac  ireb,  “to  be  great”) ; here  spoken  in 
irony  towards  the  faithless  nation  as  their  greatest 
scourge  (Gesenius,  Thes.  Heb.  p.  1286).  Had  Jareb  been 
the  proper  name  of  the  king  of  Assyria,  as  it  would  be 
if  this  rendering  were  correct,  the  word  preceding  (“^'0, 
melek,  “ king”)  would  have  required  the  article.  That 
it  is  rather  to  be  applied  to  the  country  than  to  the 
king  may  be  inferred  from  its  standing  in  parallelism 
with  Asshur.  Such  is  the  opinion  of  Fiirst  ( Handle . s. 
v.),  who  illustrates  the  symbolical  usage  by  a compari- 
son with  Kahab  as  applied  to  Egypt.  At  the  same 
time  he  hazards  a conjecture  that  it  may  have  been  an 
old  Assyrian  word,  adopted  into  the  Hebrew  language, 
and  so  modified  as  to  express  an  intelligible  idea,  while 
retaining  something  of  its  original  form.  The  clause  in 
which  it  occurs  is  supposed  by  many  to  refer  to  Judah, 
in  order  to  make  the  parallelism  complete;  and,  with 
this  in  view,  Jarehi  interprets  it  of  Aliaz,  who  sent  to 
Tiglath-Pileser  (2  Kings  xvi,  8)  to  aid  him  against  the 
combined  forces  of  Syria  and  Israel.  But  there  is  no 
reason  to  suppose  that  the  two  clauses  do  not  both  refer 
to  Ephraim,  and  the  allusion  would  then  be,  as  explain- 
ed by  Jerome,  to  Pul,  who  was  subsidized  by  Menaliem 
(2  Kings  xv,  19),  and  Judah  would  be  indirectly  included. 
Other  interpretations  of  the  most  fanciful  character  have 
been  given  (Glass,  Phil.  Baer,  iv,  3,  17,  p.  G44). 

Ja'red  (Heb.  Ye' red,  "H?,  in  pause  Ya'red.  “H11.  de- 
scender; Sept.  ’Idpto,  N.  T.  lapic,  Josephus  T apicijg), 
the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  The  fourth  antediluvian  patriarch  in  descent  from 
Seth,  son  of  Mahalaleel  and  father  of  Enoch ; born  B.C. 
3712, died  B.C.  2750,  aged  9G2  years;  1G2  years  old  at 
the  birth  of  his  heir  (Gen.  v,  15-20;  1 Chron.  i,  2,  “ Je- 
red Luke  iii,  37). 

2.  A son  apparently  of  Ezra,  of  the  tribe  of  Judah, 
by  his  wife  Jeluidijah,  although  in  the  latter  part  of  the 
same  verse  a different  parentage  is  spoken  of;  he  is 
named  as  the  “father”  (i.e. founder)  of  Gedor  (1  Chron. 
iv,  18,  where  the  name  is  Anglicized  “Jered”).  B.C. 
cir.  14312.  The  Kabbins,  however,  give  an  allegorical 
interpretation  to  the  passage,  and  treat  this  and  other 
names  therein  as  titles  of  Moses — Jered  because  he 
caused  the  manna  to  descend. 

Jarenton,  a celebrated  abbot  of  St.Benigne,  at  Di- 


jon, France,  bom  at  Vienna  towards  the  year  1045,  was 
educated  in  the  monastery  at  Clngny.  After  leading  fur 
some  time  a life  of  dissipation,  he  retired  in  1074  to  the 
little  monastery  of  La  Cliaise-Dieu,  of  which  he  soon 
became  the  prior,  distinguishing  himself  among  his  mo- 
nastic associates  by  a display  of  brilliant  abilities  and 
great  erudition.  In  1082  he  was,  after  tilling  various 
other  positions  of  trust,  dispatched  on  a very  important 
mission  by  the  French  papal  legate.  In  1084  he  went 
to  Rome  to  report  the  success  of  his  mission  to  pope 
Gregory  VII,  at.  that  time  confined  by  the  emperor  in  the 
castle  of  Sant-Angelos,  and  he  effected  the  pope’s  liber- 
ation by  encouraging  the  papal  legions  to  offer  resist- 
ance to  the  imperial  troops.  We  need  not  wonder  that 
such  service  was  well  repaid  by  the  papal  court,  and 
that  hereafter  Jarenton  figures  prominently  in  the  Ro- 
man Catholic  Church.  In  1097  he  retired  to  his  abbey, 
which  he  left  only  to  attend,  in  1 100,  the  Council  of  Va- 
lencia. He  died,  apparently,  Feb.  10, 1113.  He  is  sup- 
posed to  have  written  extensively,  but  only  a letter  to 
Thierry,  the  abbot  of  St.  Hubert,  is  now  known.  See 
Iloefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvi,  375.  (J.  H.W.) 

Jaresi'ah  (Heb.  Yaareshyald,  nourished 

by  Jehovah ; Sept.  ’I aapaaia),  one  of  the  “sons”  of  Je- 
roham,  a chief  Benjamite  resident  at  Jerusalem  (1  Chron. 
viii,  27).  B.C.  apparently  ante  588. 

Jar'ha  (Heb.  Yarcha',  etymology  unknown, 

but  probably  Egyptian  ; Sept.  Twy/j\,  Vnlg.  Jama),  the 
Egyptian  slave  of  a Hebrew  named  Sheshan,  who  mar- 
ried the  daughter  of  his  master,  anti  was,  of  course, 
made  free.  As  Sheshan  had  no  sons,  his  posterity  is 
traced  through  this  connection  (1  Chron.  ii,  34-41), 
which  is  the  only  one  of  the  kind  mentioned  in  Scrip- 
ture. Jarlia  thus  became  the  founder  of  a chief  house 
of  the  Jerahmeelites,  which  continued  at  least  to  the 
time  of  king  Hezekiah,  and  from  which  sprang  several 
illustrious  persons,  such  as  Zabad  in  the  reign  of  David, 
and  Azariah  in  the  reign  of  Joash  (1  Chron.  ii,  31  sq). 
B.C.  prob.  ante  1G58. — Kit  to.  It  is  supposed  by  some 
that  the  name  of  Sheshan ’s  daughter  whom  Jarlia  mar- 
ried was  Ahlai,  from  the  statement  in  ver.  31,  compared 
with  that  in  ver.  34;  but  the  masculine  form  of  the 
word,  and  the  use  of  Ahlai  elsewhere  (1  Chron.  xi,  41) 
for  a man,  is  adverse  to  this  conclusion.  As  Sheshan ’s 
oldest  grandson  by  this  marriage  was  called  Attai,  and 
as  the  genealogy  would  run  through  him,  it  is  supposed 
by  others  that  Ahlai  is  a clerical  error  for  Attai;  while 
others  think  Ahlai  ("-nx,  disjoiner,  from  bnx)  was  a 
name  given  to  Jarlia  on  his  incorporation  into  the  fam- 
ily of  Sheshan.  Others  conjecture  that  Ahlai  was  a 
son  of  Sheshan,  born  after  the  marriage  of  his  daughter. 
At  what  time  this  marriage  occurred  we  cannot  cer- 
tainly determine,  but  as  Sheshan  was  the  seventh  in 
descent  from  Hezron,  the  grandson  of  Judah,  it  could 
not  well  have  been  much  later  than  the  settlement  in 
Canaan  (B.C.  1G12),  and  on  the  presumption  that  there 
are  no  lacuna;  in  the  pedigree,  it  would  naturally  fall 
much  prior  to  the  Exode  (B.C.  1658).  In  1 Sam.  xxx, 
13,  mention  is  made  of  an  Egyptian  who  was  servant  to 
an  Amalekite,  and  there  is  no  reason  why  it  should 
seem  strange  that  an  Egyptian  should  also  be  found  in 
the  family  of  a Hebrew,  especially  as,  being  a Jerah- 
meelite,  he  had  (supposing  the  event  to  have  occurred 
in  Palestine)  his  possessions  in  the  same  district  as  the 
Amalekites,  in  the  south  of  Judah,  nearest  to  Egypt  (1 
Sam.  xxvii,  10;  comp.  2 Sam.  xxiii,  20,  21 ; Josh,  xv, 
21;  1 Chron.  xv,  18).  See  Burrington’s  Gene  at. ; Becs- 
ton.  Genealogy ; Hervey’s  Geneed.  p.  34;  Bertheau  on  1 
Chron.  ii,  24,  etc.).  See  Siiesuax. 

Ja'rib  (Heb.  Yarib',  an  adversary,  as  in  Psa. 
xxxv,  1,  etc.;  Sept.  ’I  apeif3,  ’Iap«j3),  the  name  of  three 
or  four  men.  See  also  Jareb. 

1.  A son  of  Simeon  (1  Chron.  iv,  24);  elsewhere 
(Gen.  xlvi,  10,  etc.)  called  Jachix  (q.  v.). 

2,  One  of  the  popular  chiefs  dispatched  by  Ezra  to 


m 


JARVIS 


JARIMOTH 

procure  the  company  of  priests  in  the  return  to  Jerusa- 
lem (Ezra  viii,  16).  B.C.  459. 

3.  One  of  the  priests  of  the  kindred  of  Jeshua  that 
divorced  their  Gentile  wives  after  the  Exile  (Ezra  x, 
18).  B.C.  459. 

4.  A Gracized  or  corrupt  form  (1  Macc.xiv,29;  com- 
pare ii,  1)  of  Joiarib  (q.  v.). 

Jar'imoth  ( I apijuoS),  a Gnecized  form  (1  Esd.  ix, 

28)  of  the  Heb.  name  (Ezra  x,  27)  Jere.motii  (q.  v.). 

Jarkon.  See  Me-jarkon. 

Jarlath  is  the  name  of  the  second  successor  of  St. 
Patrick  to  the  see  of  Armagh,  Ireland,  near  the  middle 
of  the  6th  century.  Scarcely  anything  is  known  of  his 
personal  history.  See  Ireland. 

Jarmoch  (Belaud,  Palcestina,  p.  283)  or  Jarmuk 
(Schwarz,  Palest,  p.  53),  a river  of  Palestine  (“V2""1) 
mentioned  in  the  Talmud  ( Parah , viii,  10;  Baba  Ba- 
thra,  74G)  as  emptying  into  the  Jordan;  the  Ilieromax 
(q.v.)  of  the  Greek  and  Iioman  writers,  and  the  modern 
Yarmuk. 

Jar'muth  (Ileb.  Yarmuth M height;  Sept. 
'lepipovS),  the  name  of  two  places. 

1.  A town  in  the  plain  of  Judah  (Josh,  xv,  35),  in- 
habited after  the  Babylonian  captivity  (Neh.  xi,  29) ; 
originally  the  seat  of  one  of  the  Canaanitish  kings  [see 
Piraji]  defeated  by  Joshua  (Josh,  x,  3,  5,  23;  xii,  11; 
xv,  35).  Eusebius  ( Onomast . s.v.  ’Itpipoi/Q,  also  Tfp- 
^o\'wc)  sets  down  Jarmucha  or  Jertnus  as  ten  Roman 
miles  from  Eleutheropolis  towards  Jerusalem,  but  else- 
where Jarmuth  (s.  v.  'li(o(juou3,  doubtless  the  same 
place)  less  correctly  at  four  miles’  distance,  although  in 
the  neighborhood  of  Eshtaol,  which  is  ten  miles  from 
Eleutheropolis.  Dr.  Robinson  (ffrseflrc/R>s,ii,344)  iden- 
tified the  site  as  that  of  Yarmuk,  a village  about  seven 
miles  north-east  of  Beit-Jibrin  (Schwarz,  Palest,  p.  85).  ( 
As  the  name  implies,  it  is  situated  on  a ridge  (tell  Er- 
mud  or  Armuth,  a different  pronunciation  for  Yarmuth: 
Yan  de  Velde,  Xarrutice,  ii,  193).  It  is  a small  and 
poor  place,  but  contains  a few  traces,  in  its  hewn  stones 
and  ruins,  of  former  strength  and  greatness  (Porter, 
Handbook,  p.  281 ; Van  de  Velde,  Memoir,  p.  324;  Tob- 
Ier,  JJritte  Wanierung,  p.  120,  462). 

2.  A Levitical  city  in  the  tribe  of  Issachar  (Josh.xxi, 

29) ,  elsewhere  called  Remetii  (Josh,  xix,  21)  and  Ra- 
SiOTii  (1  Chron.  vi,  73).  Schwarz  ( Palest . p.  157)  sup- 
poses it  was  the  Iiamali  of  Samuel  (1  Sam.  xix,  22), 
which  he  identifies  with  the  modern  village  of  Rumeh, 
north-west  of  Sheehem ; but  this  place  lies  within  the 
territory  of  Manasseh.  The  associated  names  seem  to 
indicate  a locality  on  the  eastern  edge  of  the  plain  of 
Esdraelon.  See  Remetii. 

Jaro'ah  (lleb.  Yuro'ach,  Hi"!1',  perhaps  born  under 
the  new  moon;  Sept,  has  ’A cat  v.  r.  Tent, Vulg.  Jara), 
son  of  Gilead  and  lather  of  lluri,  of  the  Gadites  resident 
in  Rushan  (1  Chron.  v,  14).  B.C.  long  ante  782. 

Jarque  or  Xarque,  I).  Francisco,  a South  Amer- 
ican Jesuit,  flourished  in  the  17th  century.  He  is  dis- 
tinguished as  the  author  of  Estado  presente  de  las  Mis- 
sioned en  el  Tveuman,  Paraguay  e Rio  de  la  Plata  (1687, 
4to),  for  which  his  intimate  knowledge  of  the  native  el- 
ement eminently  fitted  him.  It  is  remarkable  how  the 
Jesuits  have  succeeded  in  acquiring  foreign  languages, 
and  how  thorough  and  accurate  is  their  knowledge  of 
the  nations  with  w'hoin  thev  are  brought  in  contact. 
(J.Il.W.) 

Jarratt,  Deverecx,  an  early  Protestant  Episco- 
pal minister,  was  born  in  the  county  of  New  Kent,  Va., 
Jan.  6 ((>.  S.),  1732-33.  His  early  education  was  neg- 
lected, and  he  had  few  opportunities  of  receiving  in- 
struction in  youth ; but  he  so  far  improved  himself  as  to 
tie  able,  at  the  age  of  nineteen,  to  take  charge  of  a neigh- 
boring school.  Soon  after,  lie  entered  a family,  in  which 
one  part  of  his  duties  was  to  read  a sermon  of  Flavel’s 
every  night — a task  which  he  performed  at  first  with 


reluctance.  The  effect  of  these  discourses  was  to  con- 
vince him  of  sin.  He  now  perused  Russell’s  Sermons 
and  Burkett’s  Exposition  of  the  N.T.;  but,  being  sub- 
jected to  many  temptations,  he  relapsed  into  his  former 
state.  He  was  finally  relieved  by  a passage  in  Isaiah 
(lxii,  12),  and  resolved  to  enter  the  ministry,  for  which 
purpose  he  went  to  England  in  1762.  On  his  return  he 
served  at  Bath,  Va.,  where  he  was  eminently  successful 
after  some  time,  although  at  first  his  labors  appear  to 
have  been  disregarded.  He  died  January  29, 1801.  He 
wras  the  author  of  three  volumes  of  Sermons , and. 4 Series 
of  Letters  to  a Friend,  republished  in  1806  in  connection 
with  his  Autobiography. — Sprague,  Ann.  v,  214;  Meth- 
odist Quarterly  Review,  1855,  p.  502. 

Jarrige,  Pierre,  a French  Jesuit,  who  was  born  at 
Tulle  in  1605,  is  celebrated  in  history  by  his  desertion 
from  and  severe  attacks  upon  the  Jesuitical  order.  He 
was  a very  popular  teacher  and  preacher  at  the  time, 
when  he  joined  the  Calvinists  in  1647 ; but,  meeting 
with  great  opposition  in  France,  and  his  life  even  being 
threatened,  he  went  to  Leyden,  Hoik,  where  he  preached 
under  the  auspices  of  the  State  Church.  Meanwhile 
the  Jesuitical  order  condemned  him  to  suffer  death,  first 
by  hanging,  then  by  burning.  This  provoked  the  so 
celebrated  work  of  his,  Les  Jesuites  mis  stir  Vechafaud 
(Leyden,  1649, 12mo,  and  often),  in  which  he  thoroughly 
exposed  the  workings  of  that  nefarious  clerical  order. 
A controversy  ensued,  which  finally  resulted  in  the  re- 
turn of  Jarrige,  in  1650,  to  the  Jesuits — due,  no  doubt, 
more  to  the  threats  against  his  life  |han  anything  else. 
He  certainly  turned  the  table  like  a zealous  Jesuit,  and 
now  again  condemned  as  heretics  the  very  Christians 
with  whom  lie  had  so  lately  associated,  and  whose 
cause  he  had  professed  to  have  embraced.  He  died 
Sept.  20,  1660.  Sec  Iloefcr,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxvi,  383 
sq. ; Bayle,  Historical  Dictionary,  s.  v.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jarry,  Pierre-Fran^ois  Tiieopiiile,  a French  Ro- 
man Catholic  religions  writer,  was  born  at  St.  Pierre, 
Normandy,  in  31  arch,  1764.  After  completing  his  stud- 
ies at  Paris,  lie  was  appointed  curate  at  Escots;  but,  re- 
fusing to  sign  the  clerical  obligation  demanded  by  the 
revolutionists,  he  was  obliged  to  leave  the  country  in 
1791.  In  1798  the  bishop  of  Auxerre  met  Jarry  in  Ger- 
many, and  appointed  him  grand-vicar,  and  a short  time 
after  the  exiled  Pius  VI  appointed  him  archdeacon  and 
canon  of  Liege,  Belgium.  Prevented,  however,  from  as- 
suming the  funct  ions  of  this  position,  he  resided  at  Mun- 
ster, where  he  was  instrumental  in  the  conversion  of 
count  Stolberg  (q.  v.).  After  the  Restoration,  he  re- 
tired to  Falaise.  lie  died  at  Lisieux  Aug.  31,  1820. 
Jarrv  wrote  quite  extensively,  especially  against  the 
usurpations  of  the  Revolutionists  of  France.  His  theo- 
logical works  of  note  are,  Dissert,  sur  Vepiscopat  de  St. 
Pierre  a A ntioche,  (tree  la  defense  de  Vauthenticite  des 
ecrits  des  Saints  Peres  (Paris,  1807,  8vo)  : — Examen 
d’une  Dissert,  (of  the  abbot  Emery)  sur  la  mitigation  des 
peines  des  damnis  (Leipz.  IS  l o.  8vo).  See  Hoefer,  Nouv. 
Biographie  Generate,  xxvi,  386.  (J.  H.  4V.) 

Jarvis,  Abraham,  D.D.,  a bishop  of  the  Protes- 
tant Episcopal  Church,  was  born  in  Norwalk,  Conn., 
May  6 (O.S.)  1739.  lie  passed  A.B.  in  Yale  College  in 
1761,  and  became  a lay  reader  at  Middletown,  where, 
two  years  after,  he  settled  as  rector,  having  previously 
received  ordination  in  England.  In  1776  he  presided  at 
a convention  of  the  Episcopal  clergy  held  at  New  Ha- 
ven, when  it  was  resolved  to  suspend  all  religious  wor- 
ship. In  1797  he  wras  elected  bishop.  He  subsequently 
removed  to  Cheshire,  N.  II.,  and  died  May  3, 1813.  His 
style  of  preaching  is  said  to  have  resembled  that  of  Til- 
lotson  and  Sherlock.  11c  published  Two  Sermons.  See 
Sprague,  Annals,  v,  237. 

Jarvis,  Samuel  Farmar,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  was  bom 
at  Middletown,  Conn.,  Jan.  20, 1786,  and  passed  A.B.  at 
Yale  College  in  1805.  In  1811  he  took  charge  of  St. 
Michael's  Church,  Bloomingdale,  anil  in  1813  became 
rector  of  St.  James’s,  N.  Y.  I le  afterwards  became  pro- 


JASAEL 


785 


JASIIER 


fcssor  of  Biblical  literature  in  the  Gen.  Theol.  Seminary, 
N.  V.  In  1819  the  doctorate  of  divinity  was  conferred 
on  him  by  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  and  the  de- 
cree of  LL.D.  in  1837,  by  Trinity  College,  Hartford. 
When  rector  of  St.  Paul’s,  Boston,  in  1820,  he  embarked 
for  Europe  to  procure  materials  for  a work  on  Church 
history.  During  an  absence  of  nine  years,  he  examined 
all  the  important  libraries  of  Europe  on  the  subject  to 
which  his  attention  was  directed,  and,  on  his  return, 
commenced  A Complete  History  of  the  Christian  Church 
[portions  of  it  were  published  in  1841  and  1850J,  which 
remains  unfinished.  He  was  appointed  historiographer 
of  the  Church,  and  occupied  various  posts  of  honor  in 
the  diocese  of  Connecticut,  lie  died  in  1851.  A list 
of  his  writings  is  given  by  Allibone,  Diet,  of  A nth.  i,  95G. 

Jas'ael  (Taowf/Xof  V.  r.  ’AtraijXoe)?  a Gnecized,  or, 
rather,  corrupt  form  (1  Esdr.  ix,  30)  of  the  Hebrew  name 
(Ezra  x,  29)  Siieal  (q.  v.). 

Ja 'shell  (Heb.  Yashen',  y2“\  sleeping,  as  in  Cant,  vii, 
10,  etc. ; Septuag.  Tarsi'  v.  r.  ’Aadv),  a person,  several  of 
whose  “ sons”  are  named  as  among  David’s  famous  body- 
guard (2  Sam.  xxiii,  32),  called  in  the  parallel  passage 
II  as  it  em  the  Gizonite  (1  Chron.  xi,  34).  Other  discrep- 
ancies also  occur  between  the  two  passages:  the  former 
names  three,  while  the  latter  makes  the  first  (Jonathan) 
son  of  the  next,  and  both  (with  slight  verbal  variations) 
assign  special  patronymics  to  the  last  two.  Perhaps 
the  two  accounts  may  best  be  reconciled  by  understand- 
ing the  two  braves  referred  to  as  being  Jonathan  Bcn- 
Shammah  (or  Ben-Sliageh),  and  Ahiam  Bcn-Sharar  (or 
Bcn-Sacar),  grandsons  of  Jashen  (or  llashem)  of  Gizon, 
in  the  mountains  of  Judah  — hence  called  Hararites. 
B.C.  considerable  ante  1046.  This  name  Kennicott  be- 
lieves (Dissertation,  i.  201-3)  lies  concealed  in  the  word 
rendered  “the  Gizonite”  in  Chronicles,  and  accordingly 
proposes  to  read  in  both  places  “Goimi,  of  the  sons  of 
llashem;  Jonathan,  the  son  of  Shamha  the  llararite;” 
his  view  being  supported  by  the  Alex,  copy  of  the  Sept., 
which  reads  utot  Acrdp  o Pwimt  Twi >d$av  viog  Y.ayt)  6 
’Apapi.  However,  the  want  of  the  73  before  h32,  and  the 
H prefixed  to  the  name  read  by  him  as  Gouni.  are  objec- 
tions to  this  view,  and  Bertheau  may  probably  be  right 
( Chronik •.  p.  134),  that  "32  is  due  to  a repetition  of  the 
last  three  letters  of  the  preceding  word,  “ the  Shaalbon- 
ite”  C1I23"3r!l),  and  that  we  should  simply  read  lla- 
shem the  Gizonite.  In  the  list  given  by  Jerome,  in  his 
Qiuestiones  JJebraicce,  Jashen  and  Jonathan  are  both 
omitted.  Sec  David. 

Ja'sher  (Heb.  Yashar',  Tr*.  upright).  A volume 
by  this  title  (“  the  book  of  the  upright  man  ; 

Auth.  Yers.  “book  of  Jasher”)  appears  anciently  to  have 
existed  among  the  Hebrews,  containing  the  records  of 
honored  men,  or  other  praiseworthy  transactions.  The 
work  is  no  longer  extant,  but  is  cited  in  two  passages  of 
the  O.  T.  in  the  following  manner : “And  the  sun  stood 
still,  and  the  moon  stayed,  until  the  people  had  avenged 
themselves  upon  their  enemies.  Is  not  this  written  in 
the  book  of  Jasher?  So  the  sun  stood  still  in  the  midst 
of  heaven,  and  hasted  not.  to  go  down  about  a whole 
day,”  etc.  (Josh,  x,  13).  The  other  passage  is  2 Sam.  i, 
17,  18;  “And  David  lamented  with  this  lamentation 
over  Said  and  over  Jonathan  his  son  (also  lie  bade  them 
teach  the  children  of  Judah  [the  use  of]  the  bow:  be- 
hold, it  is  written  in  the  book  of  Jasher)."  After  this 
follows  the  lamentation  of  David. 

I.  Views  of  the  Incident  in  Joshua's  Career. — The 
book  of  Jasher  has  attracted  attention  because  it  is  ap- 
pealed to  in  connection  with  the  account  of  the  sun  and 
moon  standing  still.  The  compiler  of  the  book  of  Joshua 
refers  to  it  as  containing  a record  of  the  miracle  in  ques- 
tion. It  is  therefore  impossible  to  do  justice  to  our 
subject  without  entering  into  an  interpretation  of  the 
wonderfid  phenomenon  on  which  so  much  ingenuity  has 
been  wasted.  The  misspent  time  which  has  been  de- 
voted to  the  passage  in  Joshua  makes  a critic  sad  in- 
IV.— D D i> 


deed.  Instead  of  looking  at  the  words  in  their  natural 
and  obvious  sense,  men  have  been  led  away  by  their 
adherence  to  the  letter  into  recondite,  foolish,  and  ab- 
surd conjectures.  One  thing  is  a key  to  the  right  in- 
terpretation, viz.  that  the  passage  recording  the  miracle 
is  a quotation  from  the  poetical  book  of  Jasher.  The 
only  difficulty  is  to  discover  where  the  quotation  begins 
anil  where  it  ends.  But,  whatever  difference  of  opinion 
there  may  be  as  to  this  point,  it  is  clear  that  a strictly 
literal  signification  of  the  language  ought  not  to  be 
pressed  upon  a statement  professedly  extracted  from  a 
popular  poetical  work 

1.  The  most  obvious  and  ancient  interpretation  of  this 
difficult  passage  is  the  literal  one.  At  first  it  was  con- 
tended that  the  sun  itself,  which  was  then  believed  to 
have  revolved  round  the  earth,  stayed  his  course  for  a 
day.  Those  who  take  this  view  argue  that  the  theory 
of  the  diurnal  motion  of  the  earth,  which  has  been  the 
generally  received  one  since  the  time  of  Galileo  and  Co- 
pernicus, is  inconsistent  with  the  Scripture  narrative. 
Notwithstanding  the  general  reception  of  the  Coperni- 
can  system  of  the  universe,  this  view  continued  to  be 
held  by  many  divines,  Protestant  as  well  as  Homan  Cath- 
olic, and  was  strenuously  maintained  by  Suddens  (Hist. 
Eccles.  V.  T.  Halle,  1715,  1744,  p.  828  sq.)  and  others  in 
the  last  century. 

But  in  more  recent  times  the  miracle  has  been  ex- 
plained so  as  to  make  it  accord  with  the  now  received 
opinion  respecting  the  earth’s  motion,  and  the  Scripture 
narrative  supposed  to  contain  rather  an  optical  and  pop- 
ular than  a literal  account  of  what  took  place  on  this 
occasion;  so  that  it  was  in  reality  the  earth,  and  not 
the  sun,  which  stood  still  at  the  command  of  Joshua 
(Clarke’s  Commentary , ad  loc.). 

2.  Another  opinion  is  that  first  suggested  by  Spinoza 
(Tract.  Theology  Politic,  c.  ii,  p.  22,  and  c.  vi)  and  after- 
wards maintained  by  Le  Clerc  (Comment,  ad  loe.),  that 
the  miracle  was  produced  by  refraction  only,  causing 
the  sun  to  appear  above  the  horizon  after  its  setting,  or 
by  some  other  atmospherical  phenomena,  which  pro- 
duced sufficient  light  to  enable  Joshua  to  pursue  and 
discomfit  his  enemies.  This  seems  to  be  the  only  view 
which  grants  the  reality  of  the  miracle,  without  encum- 
bering it  with  unnecessary  difficulties. 

3.  The  last  opinion  we  shall  mention  is  that  of  the 
learned  Jew  Maimonidcs  ( More  Xebochim,  ii,  c.  liii), 
viz.  that  Joshua  only  asked  of  the  Almighty  to  grant 
that  he  might  defeat  his  enemies  before  the  going  down 
of  the  sun,  and  (hat  God  heard  his  prayer,  inasmuch  as 
before  the  close  of  the  day  the  five  kings,  with  their  ar- 

| mies,  were  cut  in  pieces.  This  opinion  is  favored  by 
Yatablus,  in  the  marginal  note  to  this  passage  (see  Rob- 
ert Stephens’s  edition  of  the  Bible,  folio  1557),  “Lord, 
permit  that  the  light  of  the  sun  and  moon  fail  us  not 
before  our  enemies  are  difcated.”  Grotius,  while  he 
admitted  that  there  was  no  difficulty  in  the  Almighty’s 
arresting  the  course  of  the  sun,  or  making  it  reappear 
by  refraction,  approved  of  the  explanation  of  Maimoni- 
! des,  which  has  been  since  that  period  adopted  by  many 
divines,  including  Jahn  among  the  Roman  Catholics 
(who  explains  the  whole  as  a sublime  poetical  trope. 
Introd.  p.  ii,  § 30),  and,  among  orthodox  Protestants,  by 
a writer  in  the  Berlin  Evangel ische  Kirchenzeiinng,  Nov. 
1832,  supposed  to  be  the  editor,  the  late  professor  Heng- 
stenberg  (Robinson’s  Biblical  Depository,  1833,  iii,  791 
sq.  See  Seiler’s  Biblical  Hermeneutics,  English  transla- 
tor’s note,  p.  175,  176).  See  Joshua. 

11.  Opinions  as  to  the  Character  of  the  Book  itself 
As  the  word  Jasher  signifies  just  or  upright , by  which 
term  it  is  rendered  in  the  margin  of  our  Bibles,  this 
book  has  generally  been  considered  to  have  been  so  en- 
titled as  containing  a history  of  just  men.  The  funner 
■ of  the  above  passages  in  which  the  book  is  cited  in 
I Scripture  is  omitted  by  the  Sept.,  while  in  the  latter 
the  expression  is  rendered  fiifiAiov  rov  fh6ovg:  the 
! Vulg.  has  liber  just  or  urn  in  both  instances.  The  Peshito 
| Syriac  in  Joshua  has  “the  book  of  praises  or  hymns," 


JASHEE 


786 


J ASHER 


reading  ‘VVEtt  for  and  a similar  transposition 

will  account  for  the  rendering  of  the  same  version  in 
Sam.,  “ the  book  of  A shir”  The  Targum  interprets  it 
“the  book  of  the  law,”  and  this  is  followed  by  Jarchi, 
who  gives,  as  the  passage  alluded  to  in  Joshua,  the 
prophecy  of  Jacob  with  regard  to  the  future  greatness 
of  Ephraim  (Gen.  xlviii,  19),  which  was  fulfilled  when 
the  sun  stood  still  at  Joshua’s  bidding.  The  same  Rabbi, 
in  his  commentary  on  Samuel,  refers  to  Genesis,  “ the 
book  of  the  upright,  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,"  to 
explain  the  allusion  to  the  book  ol  Jasher;  and  Jerome, 
while  discussing  the  “ etymology  of  Israel,”  which  he 
interprets  as  “rectus  Dei,”  incidentally  mentions  the 
ftet  that  Genesis  was  called  “the  book  of  the  just”  (li- 
ber Genesis  appellatur  Mmv,  id  cst,  justorum),  from 
its  containing  the  histories  of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Is- 
rael (Comm,  in  Jes.  xliv,  2).  The  Talmudists  attribute 
this  tradition  to  R.  Johanan.  K.  Eliezer  thought  that 
by  the  book  of  Jasher  was  signified  the  book  of  Deuter- 
onomy from  the  expressions  in  Dent,  vi,  18;  xxxiii,  7, 
the  latter  being  quoted  in  proof  of  the  skill  of  the  He- 
brews in  archery.  In  the  opinion  of  Rabbi  Samuel  ben- 
Nacliman,  the  book  of  Judges  was  alluded  to  as  the 
book  of  Jasher  (A  boda  Zara,  c.  ii) ; and  that  it  was  the 
book  of  the  twelve  minor  prophets  was  held  by  some 
Hebrew  writers,  quoted  without  name  by  Sixtus  Senen- 
sis  (j Bill  Sand.  lib.  ii).  R.  Levi  ben-Gershom  recog- 
nises, though  he  does  not  follow,  the  tradition  given  by 
Jarchi,  while  Ivimchi  and  Aharbanel  adopt  the  render- 
ing of  the  Targum.  This  diversity  of  opinions  proves, 
if  it  proves  nothing  more,  that  no  book  w'as  known  to 
have  survived  which  could  lay  claim  to  the  title  of  the 
book  of  Jasher. 

Josephus,  in  relating  the  miracle  narrated  in  Josh,  x, 
appeals  for  confirmation  of  bis  account  to  certain  docu- 
ments deposited  in  the  Temple  (A  nt.  v,  1,  17),  and  his 
words  are  supposed  to  contain  a covert  allusion  to  the 
book  of  Jasher  as  the  so::roe  of  his  authority.  But  in 
his  treatise  against  Apion  he  says  the  Jews  did  not 
possess  myriads  of  books,  discordant  and  contradictory, 
but  twenty-two  only ; from  which  Abicht  concludes 
that  the  books  of  Scripture  were  the  sacred  books  hint- 
ed at  in  the  former  passage,  while  Alasius  understood  by 
the  same  the  Annals  which  were  written  by  the  proph- 
ets or  by  the  royal  scribes.  Theodoret  (Queest.  xiv  in 
Jesum  Nave)  explains  the  words  in  Josh,  x,  13,  which 
he  quotes  as  to  fiij3Xiov  to  tbpeOtv  (prob.  an  error  for 
(ii6tc,  as  he  has  in  Qucest.  iv  in  2 Reg.),  as  referring  to 
the  ancient  record  from  which  the  compiler  of  the  book 
of  Joshua  derived  the  materials  of  his  history,  and  ap- 
plies the  passage  in  2 Sam.  ii,  18  to  prove  that  other 
documents,  written  by  the  prophets,  were  made  use  of 
in  the  composition  of  the  historical  books.  Jerome,  or, 
rather,  the  author  of  the  Qmest  tones  I/ebraicee,  under- 
stood by  the  book  of  Jasher  the  books  of  Samuel  them- 
selves, inasmuch  as  they  contained  the  history  of  the 
just  prophets.  Samuel,  Gad,  and  Nathan.  Another  opin- 
ion, quoted  by  Sixtus  Scnensis,  but  on  no  authority,  that 
it  was  the  book  of  eternal  predestination,  is  scarcely 
worth  more  than  the  bare  mention. 

That  the  book  of  Jasher  was  one  of  the.  writings 
which  perished  in  the  Captivity  was  held  by  R.  Levi 
ben-Gershom,  though  he  gives  the  traditional  explana- 
tion above  mentioned.  IBs  opinion  has  been  adopted 
by  Junius,  Hettinger  (Thes.  Phil,  ii,  2,  § 2),  and  many 
other  modem  writers  (Woldi  Bill.  lleb.  ii,  223). 

What  the  nature  of  the  book  may  have  been  can  only 
he  inferred  from  the  two  passages  in  which  it  is  men- 
tioned and  their  context,  and,  this  being  the  case,  there 
is  clearly  wide  room  for  conjecture.  The  theory  of  Ma- 
sius  (quoted  by  Abicht)  was,  that  in  ancient  times,  what- 
ever was  worthy  of  being  recorded  for  the  instruction  of 
posterity  was  written  in  the  form  of  annals  by  learned 
men,  and  that  among  these  annals  or  records  was  the 
book  of  Jasher,  so  called  from  the  trustworthiness  and 
methodical  arrangement  of  the  narrative,  or  because  it 
contained  the  relation  of  the  deeds  of  the  people  of  Is- 


rael, who  are  elsewhere  spoken  of  under  the  symbolical 
name  Jeshurun.  Of  the  latter  hypothesis  Fiirst  ap- 
proves (llandw.  s.  v.).  Sanctius  (Comment,  ad  2 Reg.  1) 
conjectured  that  it  was  a collection  of  pious  hymns, 
written  by  different  authors,  and  sung  on  various  occa- 
sions, and  that  from  this  collection  the  Psalter  was  com- 
piled. That  it  was  written  in  verse  may  reasonably  be 
inferred  from  the  only  specimens  extant,  which  exhibit 
unmistakable  signs  of  metrical  rhythm  ; but  that  it  took 
its  name  from  this  circumstance  is  not  supported  by 
etymology.  Lowth,  indeed  (Prcel.  p.306-7),  imagined 
that  it  was  a collection  of  national  songs,  so  called  be- 
cause it  probably  commenced  with  Tir"*  TX,  azyashir, 
“ then  sang,”  etc.,  like  the  song  of  Moses  in  Exod.  xv,  1 ; 
his  view  of  the  question  was  that  of  the  Syriac  and  Ar- 
abic translators,  and  was  adopted  by  Herder.  But, 
granting  that  the  form  of  the  book  was  poetical,  a diffi- 
cidty  still  remains  as  to  its  subject.  That  the  book  of 
Jasher  contained  the  deeds  of  national  heroes  of  all  ages 
embalmed  in  verse,  among  which  David’s  lament  over 
Saul  and  Jonathan  had  an  appropriate  place,  was  the 
opinion  of  Calovius.  A fragment  of  a similar  kind  is 
thought  to  appear  in  Numb.xxi,  14.  Gesenius  conjec- 
tured that  it  was  an  anthology  of  ancient  songs,  which 
acquired  its  name,  “ the  book  of  the  just  or  upright,” 
from  being  written  in  praise  of  upright  men.  He  quotes, 
but  does  not  approve,  the  theory  of  Illgen,  that,  like  the 
Hamasa  of  the  Arabs,  it  celebrated  the  achievements  of 
illustrious  warriors,  and  from  this  derived  the  title  of 
“ the  book  of  valor.”  But  the  idea  of  warlike  valor  is 
entirely  foreign  to  the  root  ydshar.  Dupin  contended, 
from  2 Sam.  i,  18,  that  the  contents  of  the  book  were  of 
a military  nature;  but  Montanus, regarding  rather  the 
etymology,  considered  it  a collection  of  political  and 
moral  precepts.  Abicht,  taking  the  lament  of  David  as 
a sample  of  the  whole,  maintained  that  the  fragment 
quoted  in  the  book  of  Joshua  was  part  of  a funeral  ode 
composed  upon  the  death  of  that  hero,  and  narrating  his 
achievements.  At  the  same  time,  he  does  not  conceive 
it  necessary  to  suppose  that  one  book  only  is  alluded  to 
in  both  instances.  It  must  be  admitted,  however,  that 
there  is  very  slight  ground  for  any  conclusion  beyond 
that  which  affects  the  form,  and  that  nothing  can  be 
confidently  asserted  with  regard  to  the  contents. 

From  the  passage  above  referred  to  (2  Sam.  i,  18 — 
“Also  he  bade  them  teach  the  children  of  Israel  [the 
use  of]  the  bow”),  it  has  been  supposed  by  some  (see  Dr. 
Adam  Clarke’s  Comment,  ad  loc.,  and  Horne’s  Introd.  vol. 
i)  that  the  book  of  Jasher  contained  a treatise  on  arch- 
ery ; but  it  has  been  observed  (see  Parker’s  translation 
of  De  Wette’s  Introd.  i,  301)  that,  according  to  the  an- 
cient mode  of  citation,  which  consisted  in  referring  to 
some  particular  word  in  the  document,  “ the  bow”  which 
the  children  of  Israel  were  to  be  taught  indicated  the 
poetical  passage  from  the  book  of  Jasher  in  which  the 
“bow  of  Jonathan"  is  mentioned  (2  Sam.  i,  22).  One 
writer  (Rev.  T.  M.  Hopkins,  in  the  Biblical  Repository, 
1 845,  p.  97  sq.)  rashly  proposes  to  reject  both  references 
to  the  book  in  question  as  spurious,  and  even  the  whole 
account  of  the  miracle  in  Joshua. 

De  Wette  (Einleitung,  § 169)  endeavors  to  deduce  an 
argument  in  favor  of  the  late  composition  of  the  book  of 
Joshua  from  the  circumstance  of  its  citing  a work  (viz. 
the  book  of  Jasher)  which  “points  to  the  time  of  David, 
inasmuch  as  his  lamentation  over  Saul  and  Jonathan  is 
contained  in  it.”  But  it  has  been  supposed  by  others 
(although  the  American  translator  of  De  Wette’s  Introd. 
looks  upon  this  as  quite  improbable)  that  the  book  may, 
as  a collection  of  poems,  have  received  accessions  at  va- 
rious periods,  and,  nevertheless,  been  still  quoted  by  its 
original  name.  Dr.  Palfrey,  who  adopts  this  view  of 
the  book  of  Jasher  in  his  Lectures,  still  refers  the  compo- 
sition of  Joshua  to  the  time  of  Saul. 

III.  Attempted  Reproductions  of  the  Work. — 1.  Al- 
though conjecture  might  almost  be  thought  to  have  ex- 
hausted itself  on  a subject  so  barren  of  premises,  a schol- 
ar of  our  own  day  has  not  despaired  of  being  able  not 


JASIIER 


787 


JASIIER 


only  to  decide  what  the  book  of  Jashcr  was  in  itself,  but 
of  reconstructing  it  from  the  fragments  which,  accord- 
ing to  his  theory,  he  traces  throughout  the  several  books 
of  the  Old  Test.  In  the  preface  to  his  Jashar,  or  Frag- 
ment a Archelypa  Carminum  Ilebraicorum  in  Masoreth- 
ico  Veteris  Testamenti  textu  passim  tessellata  (London, 
1854, 18G0,  8vo),  Dr.  Donaldson  advances  a scheme  for 
the  restoration  of  this  ancient  record  in  accordance  with 
his  own  idea  of  its  scope  and  contents.  Assuming  that, 
during  the  tranquil  and  prosperous  reign  of  Solomon,  an 
unwonted  impulse  was  given  to  Hebrew  literature,  and 
that  the  worshippers  of  Jehovah  were  desirous  of  pos- 
sessing something  on  which  their  faith  might  rest,  the 
book  of  “ Jashar,”  or  “ uprightness,"  lie  asserts,  was  writ- 
ten, or,  rather,  eompiled  to  meet  this  want.  Its  object 
was  to  show  that  in  the  beginning  man  was  upright, 
but  had,  by  carnal  wisdom,  forsaken  the  spiritual  law : 
that  the  Israelites  had  been  chosen  to  preserve  and  trans- 
mit this  law  of  uprightness;  that  David  had  been  made 
king  for  his  religious  integrity,  leaving  the  kingdom  to 
his  son  Solomon,  in  whose  reign,  after  the  dedication  of 
the  Temple,  the  prosperity  of  the  chosen  people  reach- 
ed its  culminating  point.  The  compiler  of  the  book  was 
probably  Nathan  the  prophet,  assisted,  perhaps,  by  Gad 
the  seer.  It  was  thus  “the  first  offspring  of  the  pro- 
phetic schools,  and  ministered  spiritual  food  to  the  great- 
er prophets.”  Rejecting,  therefore,  the  authority  of  the 
Masoretic  text,  as  founded  entirely  on  tradition,  and  ad- 
hering to  his  own  theory  of  the  origin  and  subject  of  the 
book  ofJasher,  Dr.  Donaldson  proceeds  to  show  that  it 
contains  the  religious  marrow  of  holy  Scripture.  . In 
such  a case,  of  course,  absolute  proof  is  not  to  be  looked 
for,  and  it  would  be  impossible  here  to  discuss  what 
measure  of  probability  should  be  assigned  to  a scheme 
elaborated  with  considerable  ingenuity.  Whatever  an- 
cient fragments  in  the  sacred  books  of  the  Hebrews  ex- 
hibit the  nature  of  uprightness,  celebrate  the  victories  of 
the  true  Israelites,  predict  their  prosperity,  or  promise 
future  blessedness,  have,  according  to  this  theory,  a claim 
to  be  considered  among  the  relics  of  the  book  ofJasher. 
Following  such  a principle  of  selection,  the  fragments 
fall  into  seven  groups.  The  first  part,  the  object  of 
which  is  to  show  that  man  was  created  upright  (T2^, 
ydshdr ),  but  fell  into  sin  by  carnal  wisdom,  contains  two 
fragments — an  Elohistic  and  a Jehovistie,  both  poetical, 
the  latter  being  the  more  full.  The  first  of  these  in- 
cludes Gen.  i,  27, 28;  vi,  1,2, 4, 5;  viii,  21;  vi,  G,  3;  the 
other  is  made  up  of  Gen.  ii,  7-9, 15-18, 25 ; iii,  1-19,  21, 
23,  24.  The  second  part,  consisting  of  four  fragments, 
shows  how  the  descendants  of  Abraham,  as  being  up- 
right yeshdrim),  were  adopted  by  God,  while 

the  neighboring  nations  were  rejected.  Fragment  1, 
Gen.  ix,  18-27 ; fragment  2,  Gen.iv,  2-8, 8-1G;  fragment  I 
3,  Gen.  xvi,  1-4,  15, 1G;  xvii,  9-16, 18-2G;  xxi,  1-14,20, 
21;  fragment 4,  Gen. xxv, 20-34 ; xxvii,  1-10, 14, 18-20, 
25-40;  iv,  18, 19;  xxvi,34;  xxxvi,  2;  iv,  23, 24;  xxxvi, 
8;  xxviii,  9;  xxvi,  35;  xxvii,  4G ; xxviii,  1-4,  11-19; 
xxix,  1,  etc.,  24,  29;  xxxv,  22-2G;  xxiv,  25-29;  xxxv,  | 
9-14, 15;  xxxii,  31.  In  the  third  part  is  related,  under 
the  figure  of  the  Deluge,  how  the  Israelites  escaped  from 
Egypt,  wandered  forty  years  in  the  wilderness,  and  final- 
ly, in  the  reign  of  Solomon,  built  a temple  to  Jehovah. 
The  passages  in  which  this  is  found  are  Gen.  vi,  5-14; 

vii,  6, 11,12;  viii,  6,  7, 8, 12;  v, 29;  viii, 4;  1 Kings  vi; 

viii,  43;  Dent,  vi,  18;  Psa.  v,  8.  The  three  fragments 
of  the  fourth  part  contain  the  divine  laws  to  be  observed 
by  the  upright  people,  and  are  found  in  (1)  Dent,  v,  1-22 ; 
(2)  vi,  1-5;  Lev.  xix,  18;  Deut.  x,  12-21 ; xi,  1-5,  7-9 ; 
and  (3)  viii,  1-3;  vi,  6-18, 20-25.  The  blessings  of  the 
upright,  and  their  admonitions,  are  the  subject  of  the 
fifth  part,  which  contains  the  songs  of  Jacob  (Gen.  xlix), 
Balaam  (Numb,  xxiii,  xxiv),  and  Moses  (Deut.  xxxii, 
xxxiii).  The  wonderful  victories  and  deliverances  of 
Israel  are  celebrated  in  the  sixth  part,  in  the  trium- 
phal songs  of  Moses  and  Miriam  (Exod.  xv,  1-19),  of 
Joshua  (Josh.x,  12, 13),  and  of  Deborah  (Judg.  v,  1-20). 


The  seventh  is  a collection  of  various  hymns  composed 
in  the  reigns  of  David  and  Solomon,  and  contains  Da- 
vid’s song  of  triumph  over  Goliath  (!)  (1  Sam.  ii,  1-10) ; 
his  lament  for  Saul  and  Jonathan  (2  Sam.  i,  19-27),  and 
for  Abner  (2  Sam.  iii,  33,  34) ; his  psalm  of  thanksgiving 
(Psa.  xviii ; 2 Sam.  xxii) ; his  triumphal  ode  on  the  con- 
quest of  the  Edomites  (Psa.  lx),  and  his  prophecy  of 
Messiah’s  kingdom  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  1-7),  together  with 
Solomon’s  Epithalamium  (Psa.  xlv),and  the  hymn  sung 
at  the  dedication  of  the  Temple  (Psa.  lxviii). 

It  cannot  be  denied  that  the  critic  has  shown  great 
ingenuity  and  constructive  skill  in  elaborating  his  the- 
ory. Ilis  commentaries  on  the  individual  fragments 
composing  the  parts  often  exhibit  striking  and  just  re- 
marks, with  a right  perception  of  the  genius  of  some 
portions  of  the  O.  T.  Yet  we  must  pronounce  the  at- 
tempt a failure.  The  leading  positions  are  untenable. 
Donaldson’s  arguments  are  often  weak  and  baseless. 
Most  of  the  contents  which  he  assigns  to  the  book  ot 
Jashar  never  belonged  to  it,  such  as  the  pieces  of  Gen- 
esis which  he  selects,  etc.  But  it  is  needless  to  enter 
into  a refutation  of  the  hypothesis,  ingeniously  set  forth 
in  elegant  Latin,  and  supported  with  considerable  acute- 
ness. Most  of  the  book  of  Jashar  cited  in  Joshua  and  2d 
Samuel  is  lost.  It  is  very  improbable  that  laws  such  as 
those  in  Deut.  vi,  x,  xi,  or  historical  pieces  like  Gen.  xvi, 
1-4,  ever  belonged  to  it.  It  is  also  a most  unfortunate 
conjecture  that  fl’bTT,  in  Gen.  xlix,  10,  is  abridged  from 
ri"2‘?d  ; or,  even  if  it  were,  that  it  furnishes  a proof  of 
the  poem  being  written  while  Solomon  was  king  (p.  27). 
We  are  persuaded  that  the  critic  gives  great  extension 
of  meaning  to  the  Hebrew  word  “T",  in  making  it  al- 
most, if  not  altogether,  an  appellation  of  the  Israelitish 
people.  When  he  assumes  that  it  is  contained 
the  notion  is  erroneous  (p.  23). 

Among  the  many  strange  results  of  Donaldson’s  ar- 
rangement, .Shem,  11am,  and  Japheth  are  no  longer  the 
sons  of  Noah,  who  is  Israel  under  a figure,  but  of  Adam ; 
and  the  circumstances  of  Noah’s  life  related  in  Gen.  ix, 
18-27  are  transferred  to  the  latter.  Cain  and  Abel  are 
the  sons  of  Shem,  Abraham  is  the  son  of  Abel,  and  Esau 
becomes  Lamech,  the  son  of  Methuselah. 

2 and  3.  There  are  also  extant,  under  the  title  of  “ the 
book  ofJasher,”  two  Rabbinical  works,  one  a moral  trea- 
I tise,  written  in  A.D.  1394  by  R.-Shabbatai  Carmine  Levi- 
i ta,  of  which  a copy  in  MS.  exists  in  the  Vatican  library ; 

! the  other  was  written  by  Jacob  bcn-Meir,  or  R.  Tam, 
who  died  in  1171,  and  contains  a treatise  on  Jewish  rit- 
ual questions.  It  was  published  at  Cracow'  in  158G,  4to, 
and  again  at  Vienna  in  1811,  but  incorrectly.  No  trans- 
lation of  either  was  ever  made. — Kitto ; Smith. 

4.  An  anonymous  work  under  the  same  name  was 
published  at  Venice  in  1G25,  at  Cracow  in  1628,  and  at 
Prague  in  1GG8.  It  contains  the  histories  of  the  Penta- 
teuch, Joshua,  and  Judges,  and  intermixes  many  fabu- 
lous things.  It  gives  (lxxxviii,  G4)  the  account  of 
Joshua’s  miracle  nearly  in  the  words  of  Scripture,  mak- 
ing the  sun  to  stand  still  “ thirty-six  times"  (“T “),  i.e. 
hours ; but  does  not  bring  the  history  down  later  than 
the  conquest  of  Canaan.  The  preface  itself  states  that 
it  was  discovered  at  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem  by 
Sidrns.  one  of  the  otlieers  of  Titns,  who,  while  searching 
a house  for  the  purpose  of  plunder,  found  in  a secret 
chamber  a vessel  containing  the  books  of  the  law,  the 
prophets,  and  Ilagiographa,  with  many  others,  which  a 
venerable  man  was  reading.  Sidrus  took  the  old  man 
under  his  protection,  and  built  for  him  a house  at  Se- 
ville, where  the  books  were  safely  deposited,  and  thence 
this  one  was  conveyed  to  Naples,  where  it  was  printed. 
The  book  in  question  is  probably  the  production  of  a 
Spanish  Jew  of  the  13th  century  (Abicht,  De  libr.  Feed, 
in  Thes.  A Tor.  Theol.  Phil,  i,  525-34).  A German  version 
of  it,  with  additions,  was  published  by  R.  Jacob  at  Frank- 
fort-on-the-Main  (1674, 8vo),  with  the  title  HP, 

perfect  and  right.  A stereotyped  translation  of  this 


JASHOBEAM 


788 


JASHUBI-LEHEM 


work  was  published  in  New  3ork  in  3840,  tinder  the  di- 
rection o!'  31.  M.  Noah,  with  certificates  of  its  fidelity  to 
the  original  by  eminent  Hebrew  scholars  who  had  ex- 
amined it. 

5.  The  above  works  must  not  be  confounded  with  the 
various  editions  of  a fabrication  which  was  first  secretly 
printed  at  Bristol,  and  published  in  London  in  1751  (4to), 
bv  an  infidel  type-founder  of  Bristol  named  Jacob  Hive, 
who  was  its  real  author.  It  was  entitled  “ The  Book  of 
Jasher,  with,  Testimonies  and  Notes  explanatory  of  the 
Text:  to  which  is  prefixed  Various  Headings  : translated 
into  English  from  the  Hebrew  by  Alenin  of  Britain,  who 
went  a pilgrimage  into  the  Holy  Land.”  This  book  was 
noticed  in  the  Monthly  Review  for  December,  1751,  which 
describes  it  as  “a  palpable  piece  of  contrivance,  intend- 
ed to  impose  upon  the  credulous  and  ignorant,  to  sap  the 
credit  of  the  books  of  Moses,  and  to  blacken  the  charac- 
ter of  Moses  himself.”  The  preface,  purporting  to  be 
written  by  Alenin,  contains  an  account  of  the  finding  of 
the  book  in  318.  at  Gazna,  in  Persia,  and  the  way  in 
which  it  was  translated.  Having  brought  it  to  England, 
Alcuin  says  that  he  left  it,  among  other  papers,  with  a 
clergyman  in  Yorkshire.  After  two  pages  of  various 
readings,  the  book  itself  follows,  divided  into  thirty- 
seven  chapters.  Testimonies  and  notes  are  appended. 
The  editor  states,  in  a dedication  at  the  beginning,  that 
he  bought  the  318.  at  an  auction  in  the  north  of  Eng- 
land, and  affirms  that  Wiekliffe  had  written  on  the  out- 
side, “1  have  read  the  book  of  Jasher  twice  over,  and  I 
much  approve  of  it  as  a piece  of  great  antiquity  and  cu- 
riosity, but  1 cannot  assent  that  it  should  be  made  a part 
of  the  canon  of  Scripture.”  This  clumsy  forgery  was 
reprinted  at  Bristol  in  1827,  and  published  in  London  in 
1829  (4to),  as  a new  discovery  of  the  book  of  Jasher.  A 
prospectus  of  a second  edition  of  this  reprint  was  issued 
in  1833  by  the  editor,  who  therein  styles  himself  the 
Rev.  C.  K.  Bond.  This  literary  fraud  has  obtained  a 
notoriety  far  beyond  its  merits  in  consequence  of  the 
able  critiques  to  which  it  gave  rise,  having  been  again 
exposed  in  the  Dublin  Christian  Examiner  for  1831,  and 
elaborately  refuted  by  Horne  in  his  Introduction  (ut  sup.; 
new  edition,  iv,  741-6). 

8ce,  besides  the  literature  above  referred  to,  llilliger, 
Be  Libro  Recti  (Lips.  1714);  Nolte,  lie  Libro  Justorum 
(Ilelmst.  3719);  Wolf,  lie  Libro  Rectorum  (Lips.  1742); 
8teger,  Be  vocabulo  (Kiel,  1808) ; Anon.  Jasher  re- 
ferred to  in  Josh,  and  Bam.  (London,  1842);  Hopkins, 
riumbline  Papers  (Auburn,  1862,  ch.  vii) ; and  the  peri- 
odicals cited  by  Poole,  Index , s.v.  Compare  Joshua. 

Jasho'beam  (Ileb.  Yashobam dweller 
among  the  people , or  returner  to  the  people , otherwise, 
to  whom  the  people  returns,  or  a returning  people ; Sept, 
in  1 Chron.  xi,  1 1,  'Ujiaeifi  v.r.  ’Ivraftald  ; in  1 Chron. 
xii,  6,  ’itfjfiad/i  v.  r.  2o/3of«qu  ; in  1 Chron.  xxvii,  2, 
’lofiou  p v.  r.  'lerftouL, ; 3Tilg.  Jesbaam,  but  Jesboam  in 
1 Chron.  xxvii,  2),  the  name  of  several  of  David’s  fa- 
vorite officers. 

1.  Due  of  the  Korhites,  or  Levite  of  the  family  of 
Korali  (and  therefore  probably  not  identical  with  the 
following),  who  joined  David’s  band  at  Ziklag  (1  Chron. 
xii,  6).  B.C.  1053. 

2.  “Son”  of  llaehmoni,  one  of  David's  worthies,  and 
the  Jirst  named  in  the  two  lists  which  are  given  of  them 
(2  Sam.  xxiii,  8 ; 1 Chron.  xi,  1 1).  One  of  these  texts 
is  held  to  have  suffered  through  the  negligence  of  copy- 
ists, and,  as  Jashobcam  is  not  otherwise  historically 
known,  commentators  have  been  much  embarrassed  in 
comparing  them.  The  former  passage  attributes  to  him 
the  defeat  of  800,  the  latter  of  300  Philistines;  and  the 
question  lias  been  whether  there  is  a mistake  of  figures 
in  one  of  these  accounts,  or  whether  two  different  ex- 
ploits are  recorded.  Further  difficulties  will  appear  in 
comparing  the  two  texts.  We  have  assumed  Jashobe- 
am  to  lie  intended  in  both,  but  this  is  open  to  question. 
In  Chronicles  we  read,  “Jashobcam,  the  Ilachmonite, 
chief  of  the  captains:  he  lifted  up  Iris  spear  against  300 


men,  slain  by  him  at  one  time;”  but  in  Samuel  [mar- 
gin], “ Josheb-bassebet  the  Tachmonite,  chief  among  the 
three,  Adino,  of  Ezni,  who  lifted  up  his  spear  against 
800  men,  whom  he  slew.”  That  Jashobcam  the  Hach- 
moniteand  Josheb-bash-shebeth  the  Tachmonite  are  the 
same  person,  is  clear;  but  may  not  Adino  of  Ezni,  whose 
name  forms  the  immediate  antecedent  of  the  exploit, 
which,  as  related  here,  constitutes  the  sole  discrepancy 
between  the  two  texts,  be  another  person?  31  any  so 
explain  it,  and  thus  obtain  a solution  of  the  difficulty. 
But  a further  comparison  of  the  two  verses  will  again 
suggest  that  the  whole  of  the  verse  last  cited  must  be- 
long to  Jashobeam ; for  not  only  is  the  parallel  incom- 
plete if  we  take  the  last  clause  from  him  and  assign  it 
to  another,  but  in  doing  this  we  leave  the  “chief  among 
the  captains”  without  an  exploit,  in  a list  which  records 
some  feat  of  every  hero.  We  incline,  therefore,  to  the 
opinion  of  those  who  suppose  that  Jashobeam,  or  Jo- 
sheb-basli-shebeth,  was  the  name  or  title  of  the  chief, 
Adino  and  Eznite  being  descriptive  epithets,  and  Ilach- 
monite the  patronymic  of  the  same  person ; and  the 
remaining  discrepancy  we  account  for,  not  on  the  sup- 
position of  different  exploits,  but  of  one  of  those  corrup- 
tions of  numbers  of  which  several  will  be  found  in  com- 
paring the  books  of  Chronicles  with  those  of  8amuel  and 
Kings.  B.C.  1014.  See  Adino;  David;  Eznite. 

The  exploit  of  breaking  through  the  host  of  the  Phi- 
listines to  procure  David  a draught  of  water  from  the 
well  of  Bethlehem  is  ascribed  to  the  three  chief  heroes, 
and  therefore  to  Jashobeam,  who  >vas  the  first  of  the 
three  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  13-17;  1 Chron.  xi,  15-19).  B.C. 
1045. 

3.  We  also  find  a Jashobeam  who  commanded  24,000, 
and  did  duty  in  David’s  court  in  the  month  Nisan  (1 
Chron.  xxvii,  2).  He  was  the  son  of  Zabdiel ; if,  there- 
fore, he  was  the  same  as  the  foregoing  Jashobeam,  his 
patronymic  of  “the  Ilachmonite”  must  be  referred  to 
his  race  or  office  rather  than  to  his  immediate  father. 
See  IIachmoni. 

Ja'shub  [or  Jash'ub~\  (Ileb.  Yashub',  re- 
turner; once  by  error,  Yashib',  in  text  1 Chron. 

vii,  1;  Samar.  Pent,  in  Numb.  Yosheb',  D — *‘l ; Sept. 
’Irf(ron/3),  the  name  of  two  men,  or,  perhaps,  the  last  is 
rather  a place.  See  also  Siieak-, jasiiub. 

1.  The  third  named  of  the  four  sons  of  Issachar  (1 
Chron.  vii,  1 ; Numb,  xxvi,  24) ; called  Job  (perhaps  by 
contraction  or  corruption  [or  possibly  only  by  substitu- 
tion, both  having  the  same  meaning,  one  from  — Yi’.  and 
the  other  from  -^X])  in  the  parallel  passage  (Den. 
xlvi,  13).  B.C.  1856.  His  descendants  were  called 
Jashubites  (Hebrew  Yashubi',  “G23^,  Sept.  Tturoe/ii, 

i Numb,  xxvi,  24). 

2.  One  of  the  “sons”  (?  former  residents)  of  Bani, 

| who  divorced  his  Gentile  wife  after  the  Exile  (Ezra  x, 

: 29).  B.C.  459. 

J ash'r.bi-le  'hem  (Heb.  Yashu'bi-Le'chem,  "Z'Z~[ 
[“in  pause”  La’chem,  CH3],  returning  home  from 
battle  or  for  food;  Sept.  dTreorotxpiv  avrovg  v.  r.  dire- 
<TT()t\pav  tig  A tip  ; Yulg.  rerersi  sunt  in  Laheni),  appar- 
ently a person  named  as  a descendant  of  Slielah,  the  son 
of  Judah  (1  Chron.  iv,  22).  B.C.  perhaps  cir.  995,  since 
it  added  at  the  end  of  the  list,  “And  these  are  ancient 
things.  These  were  the  potters,  and  those  that  dwelt 
among  plants  and  hedges;  there  they  dwelt  with  the 
king  [?  Solomon ; but,  according  to  some,  Pharaoh,  dur- 
ing the  residence  in  Egypt]  for  his  work.”  Possibly, 
however,  “it  is  a place,  and  we  should  infer  from  its 
connection  with  3Iaresha  and  Chozeba — if  Chozeba  be 
Chezib  or  Achzib — that  it  lay  on  the  western  side  of  the 
tribe,  in  or  near  the  Shephelah  or  ‘ plain.’  The  Jewish 
explanations,  as  seen  in  Jerome’s  Quast.  llebr.  on  this 
passage,  and,  in  a slightly  different  form,  in  the  Targum 
on  the  Chronicles  (ed.  Wilkins,  p.  29,  30),  mention  of 
I 3Ioab  as  the  key  to  the  whole.  Chozeba  is  Elimelech; 
Joasli  and  Saraph  are  3Iahlon  and  Chilion,  who  ‘had 


JASIIUBITE 


789 


JASPER 


the  dominion  in  MoaV  from  marrying  the  two  Moabite 
damsels:  Jashubi-Lehem  is  Naomi  and  Ruth,  who  re- 
turned (Jashubi)  to  bread,  or  to  Beth-Je/iew,  after  the 
famine:  and  the  ‘ancient  words’  point  to  the  book  of 
Ruth  as  the  source  of  the  whole”  (Smith). 

Jash'ubite  (Numb,  xxvi,  24).  See  Jastiub,  1. 

Jasideans.  See  Yezidis. 

Ja'siel  (1  Chron.  xi,  46).  See  Jaasiel. 

J a'son  Clamor,  he  that  will  cure,  originally  the 
name  of  the  leader  of  the  Argonauts),  a common  Greek 
name,  which  was  frequently  adopted  by  Ilellenizing  • 
Jews  as  the  equivalent  of  Jesus,  Joshua  (’irjfTouf;  comp. 
Josephus,  Ant.  xii,  5, 1 ; Aristeas,  Hist,  apud  Hody,  p.  7), 
probably  with  some  reference  to  its  supposed  connection 
with  idrrxat  (i.e.  the  healer).  A parallel  change  occurs 
in  Alcimus  (Eliakim),  while  Nicolaus,  Dositheus,  Mene- 
laus,  etc.,  were  direct  translations  of  Hebrew  names.  It 
occurs  with  reference  to  several  men  in  the  Apocrypha, 
and  one  in  the  New  Testament. 

1.  Jasox,  the  sox  of  Eleazer  (comp.  Ecclus.  1, 27, 
7?/<7ou£  nio£  ’E\.£a£«p,  Codex  A\  was  one  of  the 
commissioners  sent  by  Judas  Maeeabams,  in  conjunction 
with  Eupolemus,  to  conclude  a treaty  of  amity  and  mu- 
tual support  with  the  Romans,  B.C.  1G1  (1  Macc.  viii, 
17 ; Josephus,  Ant.  xii,  10,  6). 

2.  Jasox,  the  father  of  Axtipater,  who  was  an 
envoy  to  Rome  to  renew  the  treaty,  at  a later  period, 
under  Jonathan  Maccabaeus,  in  conjunction  with  Nume- 
nius,  the  son  of  Antioclius  (1  Macc.  xii,  16;  xiv,  22),  is 
probably  the  same  person  as  No.  1. 

3.  Jasox  of  Cyrexe,  in  Africa,  was  a Hellcnizing 
Jew  of  the  race  of  those  whom  Ptolemy  Soter  sent  into 
Egypt  (2  Macc.  i;  Josephus,  Ant.  xii,  1 ; Prideaux,  Con- 
nection, ii,  176).  He  wrote  in  five  books  the  history  of 
Judas  Maccabaeus  and  his  brethren,  ami  the  principal 
transactions  of  the  Jews  during  the  reigns  of  Seleucus 

IV  Philopator,  Antioclius  IV  Epiphanes,  and  Antiochus 

V Eupator  (B.C.  187-162),  from  which  five  books  most 
of  the  second  book  of  Maccabees  (q.  v.)  is  abridged.  In 
all  probability  it  was  written  in  Greek,  and,  from  the 
fact  of  its  including  the  wars  under  Antiochus  V Eupa- 
tor, it  must  have  been  written  after  B.C.  162.  The 
sources  from  which  Jason  obtained  his  information  are 
unknown,  and  it  is  not  certain  when  cither  he  or  his 
epitomizer  lived.  All  that  we  know  of  his  history  is 
contained  in  the  few  verses  of  the  2d  Macc.  ii,  19-23. 

4.  Jasox,  the  high-priest,  was  the  second  son  of 
Simon  II,  and  the  brother  of  Onias  III.  His  proper 
name  was  Jesus,  but  he  had  changed  it  to  that  of  Jason 
(’Iijcrof’c  'larrova  eavrov  piroivopaotv  [Josephus,  Ant. 
xii,  5,1  j).  Shortly  after  the  accession  of  Antiochus  IV 
Epiphanes,  Jason  offered  to  the  king440  talents  of yearly 
tribute  if  he  would  invest  him  with  the  high-priesthood, 
to  the  exclusion  of  his  elder  brother  (4  Macc.  iv,  17)  (B.C. 
cir.  175).  Josephus  says  that  Onias  HI  was  dead  on  the 
accession  of  Jason  to  the  high-priesthoed,  and  that  Jason 
received  this  post  in  consequence  of  his  nephew,  Onias 
IV.  the  son  of  Onias  III,  being  as  yet  an  infant  {Ant.  xii, 
5, 1).  Jason  also  offered  a further  150  talents  for  the 
license  “to  set  him  up  a place  of  exercise,  and  for  the 
training  up  of  youth  in  the  fashions  of  the  heathen”  (2 
Macc.  iv,  7-9;  Josephus,  Ant.  xii,  5, 1).  This  offer  was 
immediately  accepted  by  Antiochus,  and  Jason  built  a 
gymnasium  at  Jerusalem.  The  effect  of  this  innovation 
was  to  produce  a stronger  tendency  than  ever  for  Greek 
fashions  and  heathenish  manners,  and  they  so  increased 
under  the  superintendence  of  the  wicked  Jason  that  the 
priests  despised  the  Temple,  and  “hastened  to  be  par- 
takers of  the  unlawful  allowance  in  the  place  of  exercise, 
after  the  game  of  Discus  (q.  v.)  called  them  forth”  (2 
Macc.  iv,  14).  Some  of  the  Jews  even  “made  them- 
selves uncircumeised,”  that  they  might,  appear  to  be 
Greeks  when  they  were  naked  (1  Maec.  i,  15;  Josephus, 
Ant.  xii,  5, 1).  At  last,  as  was  the  custom  of  the  cities 
who  used  to  send  embassies  to  Tyre  in  honor  of  Hercules 
(Curtius,  iv,  2 ; Polybius,  Ileliq.  xxxi,  20, 12),  Jason  sent 


special  messengers  (Stwoovg)  from  Jerusalem,  who  were 
the  newlv-elected  citizens  of  Antioch  (’Avnox^g  ovrag; 
comp.  2 Macc.  iv,  9),  to  carry  300  drachmas  of  silver  to 
the  sacrifice  of  that  god.  See  Hercules.  The  money, 
however,  contrary  to  the  wish  of  the  sender,  was  not 
used  for  the  sacrifice  of  Hercules,  but  reserved  for  mak- 
ing triremes,  because  the  bearers  of  it  did  not  think  it 
proper  (ciu  to  / it ) KaSijKtiv)  to  employ  it  for  the  sacri- 
fice (2  Macc.  iv,  19,  20).  In  B.C.  172  Jason  also  gave  a 
festival  to  Antiochus  when  he  visited  Jerusalem,  Jason 
and  the  citizens  leading  him  in  by  torch-light  and  with 
great  shoutings  (2  Mace,  iv,  22).  Josephus  mentions 
this  visit,  but  says  that  it  was  an  expedition  against  Je- 
rusalem, and  that  Antiochus,  upon  obtaining  possession 
of  the  city,  slew  many  of  the  Jews,  and  plundered  it  of 
a great  deal  of  money  {Ant.  xii,  5, 3).  The  craft}-  Ja- 
son, however,  soon  found  a yet  more  cunning  kinsman, 
who  removed  him  from  his  office  in  much  the  same 
manner  as  he  had  done  with  his  brother,  Onias  III. 
Meuelaus,  the  son  of  Simon  (Josephus,  Ant.  xii,  5, 1 ; Si- 
mon’s brother,  2 Maec.  iv,  23),  governor  of  the  Temple, 
having  been  sent  by  Jason  to  Antiochus,  knew  how, 
through  flattery  and  by  offering  300  talents  more  than 
Jason,  to  gain  the  favor  of  the  king.  Antiochus  imme- 
diately gave  him  the  office  of  high -priest,  and  Jason  was 
forced  to  flee  into  the  country  of  the  Ammonites  (2 
Macc.  iv,  26).  See  Mexelaus.  In  B.C.  170,  Antiochus 
having  undertaken  his  second  expedition  into  Egypt, 
there  was  a rumor  that  he  was  dead,  and  Jason  made  an 
attack  upon  Jerusalem  and  committed  many  atrocities. 
He  was,  however,  forced  again  to  flee  into  the  country 
of  the  Ammonites  (2  Macc.  v,  5-7).  At  length,  being 
accused  before  Aretas,  king  of  the  Arabians,  he  was  com- 
pelled “ to  flee  from  city  to  city,  pursued  of  all  men,  and 
being  held  in  abomination  as  an  open  enemy  of  his 
country  and  countrymen,”  and  eventually  retired  into 
Egypt  (2  Mace,  v,  8).  He  afterwards  retired  to  take 
refuge  among  the  Lacedaemonians,  “ thinking  there  to 
j find  succor  bv  reason  of  his  kindred”  (2  Macc.  v,  9 ; 

! compare  1 Macc.  xii,  7, 21 ; Josephus,  A nt.  xii,  4, 10 ; see 
1 Prideaux,  Connect,  ii,  140;  Frankel,  Monatschrift,  1853, 

! p.  456),  anti  perished  miserably  “in  a strange  land” 
(comp.  Dan.  xii,  30  sq.;  Mace,  i,  12  sq.).  His  body  re- 
1 mained  without  burial, and  he  had  “none  to  mourn  for 
1 him”  (2  Macc.  v,  9, 10).  See  High-priest. 

5.  Jasox  of  Tiiessaloxica  was  the  host  of  Paid 
; and  Silas  at  that  city.  In  consequence,  his  house  was 
assaulted  by  the  Jews  in  order  to  seize  the  apostle,  but, 
not  finding  him,  they  dragged  Jason  and  other  brethren 
! before  the  ruler  of  the  city,  who  released  them  on  secu- 
| rity  (Acts  xvii,  5-9).  A.D.  48.  He  appears  to  have 
J been  the  same  as  the  Jason  mentioned  in  Rom.  xvi,21 
’ as  one  of  the  kinsmen  of  Paul,  and  probably  aceompa- 
! nied  him  from  Thessaloniea  to  Corinth  (A.I).  54).  He 
was  not  one  of  those  who  accompanied  the  apostle  into 
Asia,  though  Liglitfoot  conjectures  that  Jason  and  Se- 
eundus  were  the  same  person  (Acts  xx,  4).  Alford  says 
‘ Seen  ml  us  is  altogether  unknown  (Acts,  l.e.).  Accord- 
ing to  tradition,  Jason  was  bishop  of  Tarsus  (Fabrieius, 
| Lux  Ecangelii,  p.  91,  92). 

Jasper  yashepheh ’,  prob.  polished  or  glitter- 

ing, laairio),  a gem  of  various  colors,  as  purple,  cerulean, 
but  mostly  green  like  the  emerald,  although  duller  in 
hue  (Pliny,  Nat.  Hist.  xxxvii,8, 9;  Epiphanius,  De  Gem- 
| mis,  § 6 ; Braun,  De  Vest.  Racer  dot.  ii,  19).  “ It  was  the 

1 last  of  the  twelve  inserted  in  the  high-priest's  breast- 
plate (Exod.  xxviii,  20;  xxxix,  13),  and  the  first  of  the 
twelve  used  in  the  foundation  of  the  new  Jerusalem 
(Rev.xxi,  19) : the  difference  in  the  order  seems  to  show 
that  no  emblematical  importance  was  attached  to  that 
feature.  It  was  the  stone  employed  in  the  superstruct- 
I nre  {ivcopgmg)  of  the  wall  of  the  new  Jerusalem  (Rev. 

: xxi,  18).  It  further  appears  among  the  stones  which 
i adorned  the  king  of  Tyre  (Ezek.  xxviii,  13).  Lastly,  it 
; is  the  emblematical  image  of  the  glory  of  the  divine 
j Being  (Rev.  iv,  3).  The  characteristics  of  the  stone,  as 
I far  as  they  are  specified  in  Scripture  (Rev.xxi,  11),  are 


JASPIS  790  JAVA 


that  it  was  ‘most  precious,’ and  ‘like  crystal’  (KpvaraX- 
\r'wv) ; not  exactly  ‘clear  as  crystal,’  as  in  the  A.  Y., 
but  of  a crystal  hue : the  term  is  applied  to  it  in  this 
sense  by  Dioscorides  (v.  160:  Xidog  iaamg  b pkv  rig 
ion  apapayCi^wv,  6 8i  KpvoTaXXtpSi/g).  \\  e may  also 
infer  from  Rev.  iv,  3 that  it  was  a stone  of  brilliant 
and  transparent  light”  (Smith).  The  ancient  jasper 
thus  appears  to  have  been  frequently  translucent,  but 
the  modern  is  opaque.  A brown  variety  existed  in 
Egypt.  The  jasper  of  the  ancients,  therefore,  compre- 
hended various  precious  stones  not  readily  identifiable 
( Rosen m idler,  Bill.  Altherthum.  IV,  i,  42  ; Moore’s  Anc. 
Min.  p.  163).  What  is  now  properly  called  jasper  by 
mineralogists  is  a sub-species  of  rhomboidal  quartz,  of 
several  varieties,  mostly  the  common,  the  Egyptian , and 
the  striped;  of  different  colors— whitish,  yellow,  green, 
reddish,  etc.,  sometimes  spotted  or  banded ; occurring 
either  in  masses  or  loose  crystals,  and  susceptible  of  a 
fine  polish  (see  the  Bond.  Encyclopcedia,  s.  v.).  See  Geji. 

Jaspis,  Gottfried  Siegmuxd,  a German  theolo- 
gian, was  born  at  Meissen  April  8,  1766.  He  was  edu- 
cated at  the  University  of  Leipzig,  and  entered  the 
ministry  in  1792  as  pastor  at  Piichan.  In  1814  he  was 
called  to  the  Nicolai  church  at  Leipzig,  where  he  died, 
Feb.  15,  1823.  While  he  distinguished  himself  greatly 
as  a preacher,  it  is  particularly  as  a writer  in  Biblical 
literature  that  Jaspis’s  name  deserves  to  be  mentioned 
here.  lie  published  an  excellent  Latin  translation  of 
the  apostolic  epistles  (Lips.  1793-95;  new  ed.  1821,  8vo).  I 
His  polemical  and  homiletical  works  are  now  no  longer 
regarded  as  of  any  value.  ‘'He  was  a man  of  pure 
aims  and  cheerful  piety,  and  a good  scholar  and  preach- 
er.”— Ivitto,  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Adelung’s  Addenda  to  Jocher, 
Gelelirten  Lexikon,  s.  v. 

Jassasa,  Al  (or  the  Spy),  a Mohammedan  name  for 
a beast  which  is  to  be  one  of  their  signs  of  the  approach 
of  the  day  of  judgment : When  the  sentence  shall  be  ready 
to  fall  upon  them , ice  will  cause  a beast  to  come  forth 
unto  them  out  of  the  earth,  which  shall  speak  unto  them. 
It  is  supposed  by  them  that  it  will  appear  first  in  the 
temple  of  Mecca,  or  on  Blount  Safa,  or  in  the  territory 
of  Tayef.  She  is  to  be  a monster  in  size,  and  so  swift 
that  no  human  being  shall  be  able  to  pursue  her  in  her 
rapid  flight  through  this  world,  marking  the  believers 
from  the  unbelievers,  “that  every  person  may  be  known 
at  the  day  of  judgment  for  what  he  really  is.”  See 
Sale,  Prelim.  Dissert,  to  the  Koran,  p.  79;  Broughton, 
Biblioth.  Hist.  Sac.  i,  506. 

Jasu'bus  (’laoovj3og),  the  Grteeized  form  (1  Esd. 
ix,  30)  of  the  Ileb.  name  (Ezra  x,  29)  Jasiii:b  (q.  v.). 

J ataka  (literally  relating  to  birth ) is  the  name  of 
a Buddhistic  work  consisting  of  a series  of  books  which 
contain  an  account  of  550  previous  births  of  Sakya  Mu- 
ni, or  the  Buddha.  Several  tales  that  pass  under  the 
name  of  vEsop’s  fables  are  to  be  found  in  this  collection 
of  legends.  See  Buddhism. 

Ja'tal  (’Arup  v.  r.  ’inrdX),  a corrupt  Greek  form  (1 
Esd.  v,  28)  of  the  Ileb.  name  (Ezra  ii,  42;  Neh.  vii,  45) 
Ater  (q.  v.). 

Jath'niel  (Ileb.  YathnUV,  bs-;r^,  given  by  God, 
otherwise  jjruiser  of  God;  Sept,  ^saiavd  v.  r.  \aSa- 
vapX,  la$avai]\),  the  fourth  son  of  Mesheleraiah,  one 
of  the  Levitieal  (Korhite)  gate-keepers  of  the  Temple  I 
(L  Ghron.  xxvi,  2).  B.C.  1014. 

Jat'tir  (Ileb.  Yuttir',  [in  Josh,  xv,  48,  else-  j 

where  “defectively”  TV)],  pre-eminent;  Sept,  ’h^p  or 
’1  &«p)»  a city  in  the  mountains  of  Judah  (Josh,  xv,  48,  | 
where  it  is  named  between  Shamir  and  Socoh)  assigned 
to  the  priests  (Josh,  xxi,  14;  I Chrou.vi,  57).  It  was  ’ 
one  of  the  places  in  the  south  where  David  used  to 
haunt  in  his  freebooting  days,  and  to  his  friends  in  which 
he  sent  gifts  from  the  spoil  of  the  enemies  of  Jehovah 
(1  Sam.  xxx,  27).  The  two  Ithrite  heroes  of  David’s  j 
guard  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  38;  1 Chron.  xi,  40)  were  possibly 
lrom  Jattir,  living  memorials  to  him  of  his  early  difli-  | 


culties.  According  to  Eusebius  and  Jerome  ( Onomast . 
s.  v.  Jether),  it  was  in  their  day  a very  large  hamlet  in- 
habited by  Christians,  twenty  Roman  miles  from  Eleu- 
theropolis,  in  the  district  of  the  Daroma,  near  Mulatha 
(Relaud,  Palast.  p.  885).  It  is  named  by  Hap-Parehi, 
the  Jewish  traveller;  but  the  passage  is  defective,  and 
little  can  be  gathered  from  it  (Zunz,  in  Asher’s  Benj.  of 
Tudela,  ii,  442).  The  required  position  answers  nearly 
to  that  of  the  modern  village  of  ’A  ttir,  discovered  by 
Dr.  Robinson  ( Researches , ii,  194,  625)  in  this  region, 
“ marked  by  caves  upon  a hill”  (comp.  Wilson,  Lands  of 
Bible,  i,  353),  and  situated  fifteen  miles  south  of  He- 
bron, and  five  north  of  Moladah  (Schwarz,  Palestine , p. 
105).  It  contains  extensive  ruins  (Tristram,  Land  of 
Israel,  p.  388). 

Jauffret,  Gaspard  Jeax  Axdre  Joseph,  a French 
Roman  Catholic  theologian,  was  born  at  La  Roque-Brus- 
sane,  Provence,  Dec.  13, 1759.  He  was  educated  at  Tou- 
lon aud  Aix,  then  entered  the  Church,  and  was  made 
canon  of  Aidp.  He  subsequently  went  to  Paris,  where 
he  continued  his  theological  studies  under  the  priests  of 
St.  Eocli  and  St.Sulpiee,  and  in  1791  established  the  pe- 
riodical Annales  de  la  Religion  et  elu  Sentiment,  aimed 
against  the  civil  constitution  of  the  clergy.  He  after- 
wards became  one  of  the  editors  of  the  Annales  Ilelig- 
ieuses.  About  1801  he  acted  as  vicar-general  of  cardinal 
Fesch,  at  Lvon,  during  the  latter’s  embassy  to  Rome,  and 
he  here  labored  with  the  people  to  reconcile  them  to  the 
Concordat.  Cardinal  Fesch  subsequently  called  him  to 
Paris,  where  Jauffret  established  a number  of  religious 
societies,  and  obtained  many  privileges  for  divers  con- 
gregations of  monks  and  nuns  through  the  influence  of 
his  patron.  Made  chaplain  of  the  emperor,  he  was  in 
July,  1806,  appointed  bishop  of  Metz,  and  consecrated 
Dec.  3 of  the  same  year,  still  retaining  his  imperial  chap- 
laincy. This  position  he  improved  by  establishing  a 
number  of  seminaries  and  Roman  Catholic  schools  of  all 
kinds.  In  1810  he  was  one  of  the  persons  sent  to  meet 
the  archduchess  Maria  Louisa,  and  subsequently  became 
her  confessor.  In  1811  he  was  rewarded  for  his  zeal  in 
promoting  the  divorce  of  Napoleon  from  his  first  wife  by 
the  archbishopric  of  Aix;  but  he  never  really  held  this 
position,  on  account  of  the  difficulties  between  the  pope 
and  the  emperor,  and  finally  felt  constrained  to  renounce 
it.  He  died  at  Paris  May  13, 1823.  He  wrote  De  la 
Religion  a PAssemblee  Nationale  (1790-1, 8vo;  often  re- 
printed under  divers  titles) : — Du  Culte  public  (1795,  2 
vols.  8vo  ; 3d  ed.  1815)  : — Memoir e pour  serrir  a VIHst. 
de  la  Religion  et  de  la  Philosophic  (Anon.  Paris,  1803,  2 
vols.  8vo),  besides  a number  of  controversial  and  practi- 
cal works.  See  A mi  de  la  Religion  et  du  Roi,  xxxvi, 
G5-74  ; Chronique  Religieuse,  vi,  289-305 ; Querard,  La 
France  Litteraire. — Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvi, 
410  sq.  (J.N.r.)’ 

Java,  an  island  in  the  Malay  archipelago,  and,  after 
Sumatra  and  Borneo,  the  largest  in  the  Sunda  group!  is 
the  principal  seat  of  the  Dutch  power  in  the  East.  The 
island  is  630  miles  long,  by  35  to  120  miles  broad,  and 
has  an  area  of  49,730  square  miles.  The  population  has 
very  rapidly  increased  since  the  beginning  of  the  19th 
century.  While  in  1812  it  amounted  only  to  4,500,000 
inhabitants,  it  numbered  in  1845  9,560,000  (of  whom 
106,033  were  Chinese,  31,216  Arabs,  16,308  Europeans 
and  their  descendants,  and  5111  slaves)  ; in  1864, 
13.649,680  (26.460  Europeans,  and  156,390  Chinese); 
and  in  1869,  15,573,000  (Europeans.  29,139 ; Chinese, 
172,280).  The  natives  belong  to  the  Malay  race,  but  to 
two  different  nations — the  Javanese  in  the  east,  and  the 
less  numerous  Soudanese  in  the  west.  The  Javanese  are 
a peaceable,  frugal,  and  industrious  people,  who  have 
made  greater  progress  in  agriculture  than  any  other 
people  of  Asia  except  the  Chinese  and  Japanese.  In 
1327  Java  was  invaded  by  the  Arabs,  who  subjuga- 
ted the  whole  island,  and  established  in  it  the  Moham- 
medan religion  and  customs.  Only  in  the  remote  moun- 
tains a few  thousand  worshippers  of  Buddha  and  Brah- 
ma remain.  The  ruins  of  many  temples,  images,  and 


JAVAN 


791 


JAVAN 


tombs  prove,  however,  that  at  an  early  perioil  Brah- 
manism struck  deep  root  among  the  people.  The 
Portuguese,  who  came  to  Java  in  1579,  as  well  as 
the  English  who  arrived  later,  were  expelled  by  the 
Dutch,  who  established  themselves  in  Java  in  1594, 
and  steadily  advanced  in  the  conquest  of  the  island 
until  only  two  native  states  were  left — Soerakarta,  or 
Solo,  with  090,000  inhabitants,  and  Djodjkarta,  with 
340,000  inhabitants.  From  1811  to  1810  the  island  was 
under  the  rule  of  the  British,  who  had  conquered  it,  but 
in  1810  it  was  restored  to  the  Dutch.  In  consequence 
of  the  bad  administration  a number  of  outbreaks  took 
place,  among  which,  in  particular,  that  of  Djepo  Negoro, 
in  1825,  was  very  dangerous,  until  at  length  the  gov- 
ernors, Van  der  Capellen  and  Jan  van  den  Busch,  suc- 
ceeded, by  encouraging  agriculture,  and  by  other  meas- 
ures, in  developing  the  productivity  and  prosperity  of  the 
island  to  a high  degree.  In  accordance  with  a decree 
of  Jan.  1,  1860,  slavery  was  abolished  in  Java,  as  well 
as  in  all  the  Dutch  colonies.  During  the  rule  of  the 
Portuguese  the  Catholic  missionaries  formed  some  na- 
tive congregations,  of  which  only  a few  remnants  are 
left  at  Batavia  and  Depok.  The  Dutch  government 
was  decidedly  opposed  to  missionary  labor,  and  Protes- 
tant missions  were  not  begun  until  the  island  passed,  in 
1811,  under  the  rule  of  England.  The  first  society  in 
the  field  was  the  London  Missionary  (since  1813),  which 
was  soon  followed  by  the  English  Baptists.  But  both 
societies  confined  their  efforts  chiefly  to  the  Chinese  and 
the  Malays.  Their  missionaries  were  allowed  to  remain 
after  the  restoration  of  the  Dutch  administration,  but 
they  had  to  submit  to  many  restrictions,  until,  in  1842, 
all  non-Dutch  missionaries  in  the  Dutch  colonies  were 
forbidden  to  perform  any  missionary  labors.  Thus  only 
the  Rotterdam  Missionary  Society,  which  had  begun  its 
operations  in  Batavia  and  the  neighborhood  in  1820, 
was  able  to  continue  the  missionary  work.  A new  im- 
pulse was  given  to  the  labors  of  this  society  by  a journey 
of  visitation  on  the  part  of  its  inspector.  A mission  sta- 
tion was  established  at  Samarang,  and  a second  very 
promising  field  opened  in  the  province  of  Surabaya,  with 
Modjo  Warno  as  centre,  whence  the  mission  extended 
to  Kcdiri  and  Malang.  The  society,  in  1806,  supported 
in  Java  three  missionaries  and  several  native  agents. 
In  1851  a society  for  home  and  foreign  missions  was 
formed  at  Batavia,  with  which  the  Dutch  section  of  the 
Java  Committee  at  Amsterdam  associated  itself.  The 
society  labored  in  Batavia  and  the  neighborhood,  in 
particular  among  the  Malays  and  Chinese,  and  took  sev- 
eral brethren  of  the  Society  of  Gossner  into  its  service. 
In  1854  the  Mennonite  Missionary  Society  at  Amster- 
dam (Doopgezinde  Vereeniging)  began  its  operations  at 
Djapara,  while  the  Nederland  Zendings  Vereeniging, 
which  was  established  in  1858,  opened  missions  among 
the  Sundanese,  to  whom  it  has  also  undertaken  to  give 
a translation  of  the  Bible.  It  employed  in  1806  five 
missionaries,  and  had  four  stations.  The  Nedcrl.  Gere- 
formeerde  Zendings  Vereeniging  has  also  established 
several  missions  (iu  1806  three  missionaries)  in  Java, 
and  the  Utrecht  Missionary  Society  has  begun  mission- 
ary operations  on  the  neighboring  island  of  Bali,  where 
Buddhism  is  still  prevalent.  The  Dutch  government 
continues  to  be.  anything  but  favorable  to  the  missions, 
but  patronizes  the  diffusion  of  education,  and  has  re- 
cently established  for  that  purpose  a native  normal 
school  at  Bandong.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church  has 
a vicar  apostolic  in  the  city  of  Batavia.  The  govern- 
ment pays  the  salaries  of  eight  priests.  The  Catholic 
popnlation  consists  almost  exclusively  of  Dutch  soldiers 
and  Indo-Portuguese. — Neweomb,  Cyclopmlia  of  Mis- 
sions; Grundemann,  M issions-A  tins ; Wetzer  u.  Weltc, 
Kirchen-Lexikon,  xii,  569,  591.  (A.  J.  8.) 

Javan  (Hebrew  Tavern',  of  foreign  origin),  the 
name  of  a person  (borrowed  from  that  of  his  descend- 
ants) and  also  of  a city. 

1.  (Sept.  T ciitav  in  Gen.  x,  2,  4;  ’lavdv  iu  1 Chron.  i, 
5, 7 ; j)  "EXXac  in  Isa.  lxvi,  19  and  Ezek.  xxvii,  13 ; else- 


where oi  "EWijvtQ.)  The  fourth  son  of  Japheth,  and 
the  father  of  Elishah,  Tarshish,  Kittim,  and  Dodanim 
(Gen.  x,  2, 4 ; 1 Chron.  i,  5, 7).  B.C.  post  2514.  Hence 
for  the  country  settled  by  his  posterity,  supposed  to  be 
Greece,  i.  e.  Ionia  (whence  the  1 1 eb.  name),  which  prov- 
ince, settled  by  colonists  from  the  mother  country,  was 
better  known  to  the  Orientals,  as  lying  nearer  to  them, 
than  Hellas  itself  (see  Gesenius,  Tilts.  Ifeb.  p.  587).  It 
is  mentioned  among  the  places  where  the  Syrians  ob- 
tained articles  of  traffic  (comp.  Bochart,  Phaley,  iii,  3), 
namely,  brass  ami  slaves  (Ezek.  xxvii,  13) ; as  a distant 
country  among  the  “isles  of  the  sea”  (Isa.  lxvi,  19). 
Alexander  the  Great  is  styled  king  of  Javan  (“  Gra;cia,” 
Dan.  viii,  21 ; x,  20 ; comp,  xi,  2 ; Zeeh.  ix,  13).  In  Joel 
iii,  0,  the  patronymic  occurs  C‘13^n"n23,  sons  of  “ the 
Grecians,”  like  the  poetic  vhg  'Ayo/wr.  See  Ethnol- 
ogy. This  name,  or  its  analogue,  is  found  as  a designa- 
tion of  Greece  not  only  in  all  the  Shemitic  dialects,  but 
also  in  the  Sanscrit,  the  Old  Persic,  and  the  Egyptian 
(Knobcl,  Volkertafel.  p.  78  sq.),  and  the  form  'Idoceg  ap- 
pears in  Homer  as  the  designation  of  the  early  inhabi- 
tants of  Attica  {I liiul,  xiii,  085),  while  iEsehylus  and 
Aristophanes  make  their  Persian  interlocutors  call  the 
Greeks ’laovtg  (^Eschylus, Pers.  174, 555, 911, etc.;  Aris- 
topli.  .4  churn.  104, 100),  and  the  Scholiast  on  the  latter  of 
these  passages  from  Aristophanes  expressly  says,  IT dv- 
raq  tovq  "EWijvag  ’idorctg  oi  ftdpfiapoi  tKaXovv. 
“ The  occurrence  of  the  name  in  the  cuneiform  inscrip- 
tions of  the  time  of  Sargon  (about  B.C.  709),  in  the  form 
of  Yavnrm  or  Yunan,  as  descriptive  of  the  isle  of  Cyprus, 
where  the  Assyrians  first  came  in  contact  with  the  pow- 
er of  the  Greeks,  further  shows  that  its  use  was  not  con- 
fined to  the  Hebrews,  but  was  widely  spread  throughout 
the  East.  The  name  was  probably  introduced  into  Asia 
by  the  Phoenicians,  to  whom  the  Ionians  were  naturally 
better  known  than  any  other  of  the  Hellenic  races  on 
account  of  their  commercial  activity  and  the  high  pros- 
perity of  their  towns  on  the  western  coast  of  Asia  Mi- 
nor. The  extension  of  the  name  westward  to  the  gen- 
eral body  of  the  Greeks,  as  they  became  known  to  the 
Hebrews  through  the  Phoenicians,  was  but  a natural 
process,  analogous  to  that  which  we  have  already  had 
to  notice  in  the  case  of  Chittim.  It  can  hardly  be  im- 
agined that  the  early  Hebrews  themselves  had  any  act- 
ual acquaintance  with  the  Greeks;  it  is,  however,  worth 
mentioning,  as  illustrative  of  the  communication  which 
existed  between  the  Greeks  and  the  East,  that,  amongst 
the  artists  who  contributed  to  the  ornamentation  of 
Esarhaddon’s  palaces,  the  names  of  several  Greek  artists 
appear  in  one  of  the  inscriptions  (Rawlin son’s  Herod,  i, 
483).  At  a later  period  the  Hebrews  must  have  gained 
considerable  knowledge  of  the  Greeks  through  the  Egyp- 
tians. Psammetiehus  (B.C.  064-010)  employed  Ionians 
and  Carians  as  mercenaries,  and  showed  them  so  much 
favor  that  the  war-caste  of  Egypt  forsook  him  in  a body : 
the  Greeks  were  settled  near  Bubastis,  in  a part  of  the 
country  with  which  the  Jews  were  familiar  (Herod,  ii, 
154).  The  same  policy  was  followed  by  the  succeeding 
monarchs,  especially  Amasis(B.C.  571-525),  who  gave  the 
Greeks  Naucratis  as  a commercial  emporium.  It  is  tol- 
erably certain  that  any  information  which  the  Hebrews 
acquired  in  relation  to  the  Greeks  must  have  been 
through  the  indirect  means  to  which  we  have  adverted ; 
the  Greeks  themselves  were  very  slightly  acquainted 
with  the  southern  coast  of  Syria  until  the  invasion  of 
Alexander  the  Great.  The  earliest  notices  of  Palestine 
occur  in  the  works  of  I locations  (B.C.  594-480),  who 
mentions  only  the  two  towns  Canytis  and  Cardytus ; 
the  next  are  in  Herodotus,  who  describes  the  country  as 
Syria  Pahestina,  and  notices  incidentally  the  towns  As- 
calon,  Azotns,  Eehatana  (Batamea?),  and  Cadvtis,  the 
same  as  the  Canytis  of  1 locations,  probably  Gaza.  These 
towns  were  on  the  border  of  Egypt,  with  the  exception 
of  the  uncertain  Ecbatana,  and  it  is  therefore  highly 
probable  that  no  Greek  had,  down  to  this  late  period, 
travelled  through  Palestine”  (Smith).  See  Greece. 

2.  (Sept,  ot voq  v.  r.  ’Iu >vdv,  'I aovdv.)  A region  or 


792 


JEALOUSY 


JAVELIN 

town  of  Arabia  Felix,  whence  the  Syrians  procured 
manufactures  of  iron,  cassia,  and  calamus  (Ezek.  xxvii, 
19) ; probably  the  Javan  mentioned  in  the  Camus  (p. 
1817)  as  “ a town  of  Yemen,”  and  “ a port  of  Ispahan.” 
Some  confound  this  with  the  preceding  name  (Credner 
and  llitzig,  on  Joel  iii,  G ; see  Meier  on  Joel , p.  1GG),  but 
Tuch  (on  Gen.  p.  210)  suggests  that  it  may  have  been  so 
named  as  having  been  founded  by  a colony  of  Greeks. 
Bv  a change  of  reading  (see  Hiivemick,  ad  loc.)  in  an 
associated  word  Uzal,  forVnx*2.  spun,],  e. 

thread),  some  critics  have  thought  they  find  another 
place  mentioned  in  the  same  vicinity  (see  Bochart,PAa- 
lerj,  I,  ii,  21 ; Rosenmiiller,  Bill.  Geog.  iii,  29G-305). 

Javelin  is  the  rendering  in  the  Auth.Vers.  of  two 
Heb.  terms:  PP3n  (chanith',  so  called  from  its  flexibili- 
ty), a lance  (1  Sam.  xviii,  10,  II;  xix,  9,  10;  xx,  33; 
elsewhere  “spear”);  and  JT?~l  (ro'mach,  from  its  pier- 
cing),  a lance  for  heavy-armed  troops  (Numb,  xxv,  7 ; 
“lancet,”  i.  e.  spear-head,  1 Kings  xviii,  28;  “buckler,” 
incorrectly,  1 Chron.  xii,  8;  elsewhere  “spear”).  See 
Armor. 

Jaw  (usually  and  properly  "’nb,  lecki',  rendered  also 
“jaw-bone;”  once  C‘inipb'?,  maikochim “jaws,”  Fsa. 
xxii,  15,  elsewhere  “prey;”  also  mrbp'3,  metkal/eoth'," 
“jaws,”  Job  xxix,  17;  “jaw  teeth,"  Prov.  xxx,  14; 
“cheek  teeth,”  Joel  i,  6).  The  denuded  jaw-bone  of  an 
ass  afforded  Samson  (q.  v.)  a not  unsuitable  weapon 
(see  SeifFerheld,  De  maxilla  asini,  Tubing.  1716)  for  the 
great  carnage  which  he  once  effected  (Jndg.  xv,  15). 
See  Leu  i.  ' 

Jay,  William,  a very  distinguished  English  Inde- 
pendent minister,  was  born  at  Tisbury,  county  of  Wilts, 
in  17G9.  He  was  the  son  of  a poor  stone-cutter,  and  ob- 
tained his  education  by  the  influence  and  charity  of 
friends  he  made  as  a youth,  distinguishing  himself  even 
then  by  great  natural  abilities  and  ready  acquisition. 
When  not  quite  sixteen  years  of  age  he  began  preach- 
ing, and  before  he  had  passed  his  minority  he  is  said  to 
have  delivered  no  less  than  1000  sermons.  Like  Wes- 
ley, he  often  preached  out-doors;  and  he  himself  relates 
the  history  of  his  early  life  thus:  “ In  the  milder  sea- 
sons which  would  allow  of  it,  we  often  addressed  large 
numbers  out  of  doors ; and  many  a clear  and  calm  even- 
ing I have  preached  down  the  day  on  the  corner  of  a 
common,  or  upon  the  green  turf  before  the  cottage  door. 
These  neighborhoods  were  supplied  sometimes  weekly 
and  sometimes  fortnightly,  both  on  the  week-days  and 
on  the  Sabbaths.  We  always  on  the  Sabbaths  avoid- 
ed, if  possible,  the  church  hours;  and  on  week-days  we 
commonly  omitted  the  services  during  the  hay  and  corn 
harvest,  that  we  might  not  give  reasonable  offence  to 
the  farmers,  or  entice  the  peasants  away  from  their  la- 
bor before  their  usual  time.  I would  also  remark  that 
we  did  not  always,  in  these  efforts,  encounter  much  op- 
position ; indeed,  I remember  only  a few  instances  in 
which  we  suffered  persecution  from  violence  or  rude- 
ness.” Jan.  31,  1791,  he  was  made  preacher  of  Argvle 
Chapel,  Bath,  and  here  be  labored  for  sixty-two  years 
with  great  distinction.  Jay  was  not  excelled  even  by  the 
greatest  of  pulpit  orators  for  which  England  has  been  so 
justly  celebrated  within  the  last  100  years.  John  Foster 
calls  him  the  “prince  of  preachers;”  Sheridan  pro- 
nounced him  “the  most  natural  orator”  he  had  ever 
heard;  Dr.  James  Hamilton  as  a preacher  who  filled 
him  “with  wonder  and  delight;”  and  Beckford  as  pos- 
sessing a mind  like  “a  clear,  transparent  stream,  flow- 
ing so  freely  as  to  impress  us  with  the  idea  of  its  being 
inexhaustible.”  lie  died  in  December,  1853,  “beloved 
and  trusted  by  religious  professors  of  all  sects”  (London 
Atkenrrum,  Sept.  30, 1854).  “Mr.  Jay  was  not  only  a pi- 
ous and  eminently  successful  preacher,  but  a very  genial 
and  interesting  man;  a sagacious  observer,  yet  of  child- 
like simplicity  in  taste  and  disposition;  possessed  of  a 
fine,  though  sometimes  quaint  humor;  a most  instruc- 
tive and  pleasant  companion,  rich  in  anecdote  and  remi- 


niscence, and  able,  from  personal  knowledge,  to  give 
living  sketches  of  most  of  the  eminent  men  who  had 
appeared  in  the  religious  world,  high-flying  bigots  ex- 
cepted, during  the  latter  part  of  the  18th  and  the  earlier 

part  of  the  present  century He  was  not  a strict 

Calvinist,  for  he  did  not  believe  in  the  ‘exclusive’  part 
of  the  Calvinistic  creed  in  any  form.  He  believed  in 
‘ two  grand  truths’ — ‘ that  if  we  are  saved,  it  is  entirely 
of  God’s  grace;  and  if  we  are  lost,  it  will  be  entirely 
from  ourselves.’  He  held  to  these  firmly,  though  he 
might  not  see  the  connection  between  them.  ‘ The 
connection,’  he  says,  ‘is  like  a chain  across  the  river;  I 
can  see  the  two  ends,  but  not  the  middle;  not  because 
there  is  no  real  union,  but  because  it  is  under  water.’ 
As  to  Church  polity,  Mr.  Jay  inclined,  on  the  whole,  to 
Presbyterianism,  with  a special  leaning,  perhaps,  on  one 
point — that  of  mutual  ministerial  oversight  and  respon- 
sibility— to  Wesleyan  Methodism.  But  he  did  not  be- 
lieve any  particular  form  of  polity  to  be  of  divine  au- 
thority” (London  Quart.  Review , 1854,  p.  553  sq.).  Best 
known  of  his  varied  and  extensive  writings  are  Morning 
and  Evening  Exercises  (vol.  i-iv  of  the  collective  edition 
of  his  1 To ed.  of  1842) : — The  Christian  contemplated 
(vol.  vi  of  his  Works') : — Mornings  with  Jesus  (1854, 
8vo).  His  IPorfo  were  published  entire  (Bath,  1842-44, 
12  vols.  8vo ; New  York,  3 vols.  8vo).  See  A utobiogra- 
phy  of  the  Rev.  1 Villiam  Jay , with  Reminiscences  of  some 
distinguished  Contemporaries,  Selections  from  his  Corre- 
spondence, etc.,  edited  by  George  Bedford,  D.D.,  LL.D., 
and  John  Angell  James  (Lond.  1854,  8vo;  3d  ed.  1855); 
Wilson,  Memoir  of  Jay  (1854,  8vo);  Wallace,  Portrait- 
ure of  Jay  (1852, 12ino) ; Ailibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors,  i, 
857 ; Princeton  Review,  v,  3G9  sq. ; Meth.  Quart.  Review, 
v,  335.  (J.I1.W.) 

Jayadeva,  a celebrated  Hindu  poet,  who,  accord- 
ing to  some,  lived  about  the  middle  of  the  lltli,  accord- 
ing to  others  about  the  middle  of  the  16th  century  after 
Christ.  His  most  renowned  work  is  the  Gitagovinda, 
an  erotic  poem  in  honor  of  the  Hindu  deity  Krishna  (an 
incarnation  of  Vishnu)  and  his  wife  Badlia.  It  is  inter- 
preted both  in  a literal  and  a mystical  sense.  — Cham- 
bers, Cyclopcedia,  s.  v. 

Jayne,  Peter,  a pioneer  Methodist  Episcopal  min- 
ister, born  at  Marblehead,  Mass.,  in  1778,  entered  the 
itinerancy  in  1797,  and  in  1805-G  was  stationed  in  Bos- 
ton, where  he  died  Sept.  5,  1806.  Mr.  Jayne  was  a man 
of  great  promise  and  rare  abilities.  His  style  was  terse 
and  vigorous,  his  piety  consistent,  and  his  manners  in- 
genuous. His  early  death  was  deplored  by  his  brethren 
as  the  eclipse  of  a morning  star.  See  Minutes  of  Con- 
ferences, i,  14G ; Stevens,  Memorials  of  Methodism,  3,  ch. 
xxvi.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Ja'zar  (>)  T a£t)p  v.  r.  ’la’Cgv),  a Grtecized  form  (1 
Macc.  v,  8)  of  Jaazeu  (q.  v.). 

Ja'zer  (Numb,  xxxii,  1,  3;  Josh,  xxi,  39;  2 Sam. 
xxiv,  5;  1 Chron.  vi,  81 ; xxvi,  31;  Isa.  xvi,  8,  9;  Jer. 
xlviii,  32).  See  Jaazer. 

Ja'ziz  (Heb.  Yaziz',  P'P1,  prominent ; Sept.  Twe£i'£ 
v.  r.  Ta£('£),  a Ilagarite  overseer  of  David’s  flocks  (1 
Chron.  xxvii,  31),  which  were  probably  pastured  on  the 
east  of  Jordan,  in  the  nomad  country  where  the  fore- 
fathers of  Jaziz  had  for  ages  roamed  (comp,  v,  19-22). 
B.C.  1014.  See  IIagahite. 

Jealousy  (ri!S;:£,  Z>j\og),  properly  the  feeling  of 
suspicion  of  a wife’s  purity  (Numb,  v,  14);  often  used 
of  Jehovah’s  sensitive  regard  for  the  true  faith  of  his 
Church  (Exod.  xx,  5,  etc.;  2 Cor.  xi,  2).  See  Mar- 
riage. The  same  term  is  sometimes  used  for  anger  or 
indignation,  or  an  intense  interest  for  the  honor  and 
prosperity  of  another  (Psa.lxxix,  5;  1 Cor.  x,22;  Zech. 
i,  14 ; viii,  2).  Conjugal  jealousy  is  one  of  the  strongest 
passions  of  our  nature  (Prov.  vi,  34 ; Cant,  viii,  6).  When 
God  is  said  to  be  a jealous  God,  or  to  be  moved  to  jeal- 
ousy, or  when  the  still  stronger  expression  is  used,  “Je- 
hovah, whose  name  is  Jealous''  (Exod.  xxiv,  14),  we  arc 


JEALOUSY 


793 


JEARIM 


to  understand  this  language  as  employed  to  illustrate, 
rather  than  to  represent,  the  emotions  of  the  divine 
mind.  The  same  causes  operating  upon  the  human 
mind  would  produce  what  we  call  anger,  jealousy,  re- 
pentance, grief,  etc. ; and  therefore,  when  these  emotions 
are  ascribed  to  the  mind  of  Clod,  this  language  is  used 
because  such  emotions  can  be  represented  to  us  by  no 
other.  Thus  God  is  represented  to  us  as  a husband,  re- 
lated to  his  Church  by  a marriage  covenant  that  binds 
her  to  be  wholly  for  him,  and  not  for  another.  The 
more  sincere  and  constant  the  love,  the  more  sensitive 
is  the  heart  to  the  approach  of  a rival;  and  the  thought 
of  such  affection  being  alienated  or  corrupted  tills  the 
soul  with  grief  and  indignation.  So  God  commends  the 
purity,  the  fervency,  and  the  sincerity  of  his  love  to  his 
Church  by  the  most  terrific  expressions  of  jealousy.  Sec 
Idolatry. 

JEALOUSY,  IMAGE  OF  (nx'.pn  Sept,  d- 
kiuv  rou  Zt)\ovQ,  Vulg.  idolum  zeli),  an  idolatrous  object 
seen  by  the  prophet  in  that  remarkable  vision  which 
portrayed  to  him  the  abominations  that  called  down  the 
divine  vengeance  on  Jerusalem  (Ezek.  viii,  3,  5).  See 
Imagery,  Chamber  of.  It  stood  upon  a pedestal 
“seat”)  within  the  inner  or  priests’  court  of  the  Temple, 
adjoining  the  great  altar,  and  seems  to  have  been  iden- 
tical with  the  statue  of  Astarte,  which  Manasseh  had 
the  audacious  effrontery  to  erect  within  the  sacred  pre- 
cincts (2  Kings  xxi,  7).  See  Asutoretii.  This  idol, 
arresting  the  attention  of  all  who  came  to  worship  just 
as  they  entered,  claimed,  as  the  rival  of  Jehovah,  their 
adoration,  and  thus  was  peculiarly  offensive  to  the  God 
of  heaven  (see  Henderson,  Commentary,  ad  loc.;  Bieder- 
mann,  Be  idolo  zeli,  Freib.  1757).  Sec  Idol. 

JEALOUSY-OFFERING  rnas,  Septuag. 

Swirt  fyiXoTUTriar,  Vulgate  oblatio  zelotypice)  was  the 
name  of  a “ meat-offering”  which  a husband  was  to 
bring  when  he  subjected  his  wife,  under  charge  of  adul- 
tery, before  the  priest,  to  the  ordeal  of  the  bitter  waters 
(Numb,  v,  1 L sq.).  It  consisted  of  a tenth  of  an  ephah 
of  barley-meal,  without  oil  or  frankincense.  The  priest 
must  wave  it  (ver.  25),  and  burn  a handful  on  the  altar 
(ver.  2G).  The  Mishna  gives  more  minute  directions 
(Sot ah,  ii,  1 ; iii,  1,  G).  See  Adultery.  Barley,  as  an 
inferior  gram  to  wheat  (Phajdrus,  ii,  8,  9),  was  symboli- 
cal of  the  suspected  condition  of  the  wife  (Philo,  Opp.  ii, 
307).  Oil  and  incense,  as  emblems  of  joy  and  piety, 
were  obviously  unsuitable  to  the  occasion. — Winer,  i, 
307.  See  Offering. 

JEALOUSY,  WATERS  OFp'n^n  taViSrt  V2, 
Numb.  v.  19,  bitter  waters  that  curse,  Sept,  to  vCmp  too 
iXtypov  tov  k7nKaTapiopsvov,  Vulg.  aqmr  istee  amaris- 
sinue  in  quas  maledicta  conyessi,  A.  V.  “this  bitter  water 
that  causetli  the  curse”),  (See  Acoluthi,  lie  aquis  amaris 
maledictionem  inferentibus  [Lips.  18G2]).  When  a He- 
brew wife  was  suspected  of  adultery,  her  husband  brought 
her  first  before  the  judges,  and,  if  she  still  asserted  her 
innocence,  he  required  that  she  should  drink  the  waters 
of  jealousy , that  God  might,  by  these  means,  discover 
what  she  attempted  to  conceal  (Numb,  v,  12,  etc.).  The 
further  details  are  thus  described  by  Dr.  Clarke  (Com.  ad 
loc.)  from  the  rabbinical  authorities  (com]). Wagenscil’s 
Sota,  pass.):  “ The  man  then  produced  his  witnesses,  and 
they  were  heard.  After  this, both  the  man  and  the  wom- 
an were  conveyed  to  Jerusalem,  and  placed  before  the  San- 
hedrim; and  if  she  persisted  in  denying  the  fact,  she  was 
led  to  the  eastern  gate  of  the  court  of  Israel,  stripped  of 
her  own  clothes,  and  dressed  in  black,  before  great  num- 
bers of  her  own  sex.  The  priest  then  told  her  that,  if 
she  was  really  innocent,  she  had  nothing  to  fear ; but  if 
guilty,  she  might  expect  to  suffer  all  that  the  law  had 
denounced  against  her,  to  which  she  answered  ‘Amen, 
amen.’  The  priest  then  wrote  the  terms  of  the  law  in 
this  form  : ‘ If  a strange  man  hath  not  come  near  you, 
and  von  are  not  polluted  by  forsaking  the  bed  of  vour 
husband,  these  bitter  waters,  which  I have  cursed,  will 


not  hurt  you  ; but  if  you  have  polluted  yourself  by  com- 
ing near  to  another  man,  and  gone  astray  from  your  hus- 
band, may  you  be  accursed  of  the  Lord,  and  become  an 
example  for  all  his  people ; may  your  thigh  rot,  and 
your  belly  swell  till  it  burst;  may  these  cursed  waters 
enter  into  your  belly,  ami,  being  swelled  therewith,  may 
your  thighs  putrefy.’  After  this,  the  priest  filled  a 
pitcher  out  of  the  brazen  vessel  near  the  altar  of  burnt- 
offerings,  cast  some  dust  of  the  pavement  into  it.  min- 
gled something  with  it  as  bitter  as  wormwood,  and  then 
read  the  curses,  and  received  her  answer  of  Amen.  An- 
other priest  in  the  mean  time  tore  off  her  clothes  as  low 
as  her  bosom,  made  her  head  hare,  untied  the  tresses  of 
her  hair,  fastened  her  clothes  (which  were  thus  torn) 
with  a girdle  under  her  breast,  and  then  presented  her 
with  the  tenth  part  of  an  ephah,  or  about  three  pints  of 
barley-meal.  The  other  priest  then  gave  her  the  waters 
of  jealousy  or  bitterness  to  drink,  and,  as  soon  as  the 
woman  had  swallowed  them,  he  gave  her  the  meal,  in  a 
vessel  like  a frying-pan,  into  her  hand.  This  was  stir- 
red before  the  Lord,  and  part  of  it  thrown  into  the  tire 
of  the  altar.  If  the  wife  was  innocent,  she  returned 
with  her  husband,  and  the  waters,  so  far  from  injuring 
her,  increased  her  health,  and  made  her  more  fruitful ; 
but  if  she  was  guilty,  she  grew  pale  immediately,  her 
eyes  swelled,  and,  lest  she  should  pollute  the  Temple,  she 
was  instantly  carried  out  with  these  symptoms  upon 
her,  and  died  immediately,  with  all  the  ignominious  cir- 
cumstances related  in  the  curses.” 

This  ordeal  appears  to  have  contained  the  essence  of 
an  oath  varied  for  the  purpose  of  peculiar  solemnity,  so 
that  a woman  would  naturally  hesitate  to  take  such  an 
oath,  understood  to  be  an  appeal  to  heaven  of  the  most 
solemn  kind,  and  also  to  be  accompanied,  in  case  of  per- 
jury, by  most  painful  and  fatal  effects.  The  drinking 
appears  to  have  been  a symbolical  action.  When  “ the 
priest  wrote  the  curses  in  a book,”  and  washed  those 
curses  into  the  water  which  was  to  be  drunk,  the  water 
was  understood  to  be  impregnated  as  it  were,  or  to  be 
tinctured  with  the  curse,  the  acrimony  of  which  it  re- 
ceived ; so  that  now  it  was  metaphorically  bitter,  con- 
taining the  curse  in  it.  The  drinking  of  this  curse, 
though  conditionally  effective  or  non-effective,  could  not 
but  have  a great  effect  on  the  Avoman’s  mind,  and  an  an- 
swerable effect  on  the  husband’s  jealousy,  which  it  was 
designed  to  cure  and  to  dissipate.  We  read  of  no  in- 
stance in  which  the  trial  took  place;  and,  if  the  admin- 
istration of  the  ordeal  were  really  infrequent,  we  may 
regard  that  as  an  evidence  of  its  practical  utility,  for  it 
would  seem  that  the  trial  and  its  result  were  so  dreadful 
that  the  guilty  rather  confessed  their  crime,  as  they  were 
earnestly  exhorted  to  do,  than  go  through  it.  The  rab- 
bins say  that  a woman  who  confessed  in  such  circum- 
stances was  not  put  to  death,  but  only  divorced  without 
dowry.  It  has  been  well  remarked  that  this  species  of 
ordeal  could  not  injure  the  innocent  at  all,  or  punish  the 
guilty  except  by  a miracle,  whereas  in  the  ordeals  by 
tire,  etc.,  in  the  Dark  Ages,  the  innocent  could  scarcely 
escape  except  by  a miracle.  See  Adultery. 

Jeanes,  Henry,  an  English  divine,  was  bom  at  Al- 
lensav,  county  of  Somerset,  in  1611,  aud  was  educated 
at  Oxford  University.  lie  held  first  the  rectory  of 
Beercrocomb  and  Caplaiul,  and,  after  Walter  Raleigh’s 
expulsion,  the  rectory  of  Chedzov.  He  died  in  1GG2. 
Jeanes  wrote  several  theological  treatises:  (1)  Absti- 
nence from  Evil: — (2)  Indifference  of  Human  Actions: 
— (3)  Oriyinal  Righteousness ; besides  several  polemical 
tracts  in  a controversy  which  he  waged  against  I)r. 
Hammond,  Jeremy  Taylor,  Goodwin,  etc.  An  answer 
to  Milton’s  Iconoclasts,  entitled  The  Image  Unbroken, 
was  generally  believed  to  be  written  by  Jeanes,  but 
Watt  ascribes  the  work  to  Joseph  Jane  (see  Allibone, 
Diet,  of  Authors,  p.  957). — Hook,  Eccles.  Bioyr.  vi,  280. 

Je'arim  (Ileb.  YedrinT,  C forests ; Sept.  ’Ia- 
piipj,  the  name  of  a mountain  on  the  border  of  Judah, 
between  Mount  Seir  and  Beth-shemesh  (Josh,  xv,  10); 


JEBUSI 


JEATERAI  794 


stated  to  be  the  site  of  Chesalon  (q.  v.).  Kesla  stands, 
seven  miles  due  west  of  Jerusalem,  ‘‘on  a high  point  on 
the  north  slope  of  the  lofty  ridge  between  wady  Ghurab 
and  wadv  Ismail.  The  latter  of  these  is  the  south- 
western continuation  of  wady  Beit-Hanina,  and  the  for- 
mer runs  parallel  to  and  northward  of  it,  and  they  are 
separated  by  this  ridge,  which  is  probably  Mount  Jea- 
rim"  (Robinson,  New  Researches , p.  154).  Forests,  in 
our  sense  of  the  word,  there  are  none;  but  we  have  the 
testimony  of  the  latest  traveller  that  “such  thorough 
woods,  both  for  loneliness  and  obscurity,  he  had  not  seen 
since  he  left  Germany”  (Tobler,  Wanderung,  1857,  p. 

178). Smith.  Perhaps  the  hill  behind  Kuryet  el-Enab 

may  be  Mount  Seir;  from  it  the  border  “ passed  over 
(wady  Ghurab)  to  the  shoulder  C|PD”?5t  *Q1“1)  of 
Mount  Jearim  ....  and  then  went  down  to  Beth-she- 
mesh.”  It  may  be  that  a considerable  district  of  the 
mountains  in  this  locality  was  called  Jearim,  for  Baalah 
is  called  Kirjath-JraWnz  (“the  town  of  Jearim”);  and 
if  so,  then  we  can  see  the  reason  why  the  explanatory 
phrase  is  added,  “Mount  Jearim,  which  is  Chesalon ,”  to 
limit  the  more  general  appellative  to  the  narrow  ridge 
between  the  two  wadvs  (see  Keil  on  Joshua , ad  loc.; 
Porter,  Handbook  for  S.  and  Pal.  p.  2S5). — Ivitto.  See 

KlRJATlI-JEARlM. 

Jeat'erai  (Heb.  Yeatheray',  perhaps  for 

‘’"IP?"’,  rich  ; Sept.  ’ I eSpi , V ulg.  Jeth ra i) , son  of  Zerah, 
a Levite  of  the  family  of  Gershom  (l  Chron.  vi,  21) ; 
apparently  the  same  called  Etiixi  in  ver.  41. 

Jebb,  John  (l),  M.D.,  F.R.S.,  a Socinian  writer, 
was  born  in  London  in  1736.  He  studied  at  Trinity 
College,  Dublin,  and  Peterhouse,  Cambridge,  of  which 
latter  he  became  fellow.  He  was  made  rector  of  Ov- 
Ington,  Norfolk,  in  1764,  but,  having  changed  from  or- 
thodoxy to  Socinianism,  he  declined  any  longer  serv- 
ing the  Church,  and  resigned  in  1775,  to  apply  himself 
to  the  study  of  medicine.  He  died  at  London  in  1786. 
His  writings  have  bnen  published  entire,  entitled  1 Fonts, 
Theological,  Medical,  etc.,  with  memoirs  by  John  Disney, 
D.D.  (London,  1787,  3 vols.  8vo).  See  A Letter  to  the 
Per.  Mr.  Jebb  with  Relation  to  his  Sentiments,  etc.  (Loud. 
1778,  8vo);  Resignation  no  Proof,  a Letter  to  Mr.  Jebb, 
by  a member  of  the  University  of  Cambridge  (London, 
1776,  8vo) ; J Letter  to  the  Rer.  John  Jebb,  J/..4.,  etc. 
(Lond.  1776,  8vo);  Atkins,  General  Biography ; Hoefer, 
Nour.  Biogr.  Generate,  xxvi,  609;  Allibone,  Dictionary 
of  A uthors,  i,  957. 

Jebb,  John  (2),  bishop  of  Limerick,  an  eminent 
Irish  theologian,  was  born  at  Drogheda  Sept.  27,  1775. 
He  studied  at  Dublin  University,  where  his  proficiency 
attracted  the  notice  of  Broderick,  bishop  of  Kilmore, 
who  made  him  curate  of  Swanlibar.  When  Broderick 
became  archbishop  of  Cashel,  he  gave  Jebb  the  living 
of  Abington,  one  of  the  richest  in  Ireland.  He  was 
finally  made  bishop  of  Limerick  in  1823.  A Protestant 
bishop  in  a district  chiefly  inhabited  by  Roman  Catho- 
lics, he  overcame  the  prejudices  of  the  people  by  his  lib- 
eral spirit,  and  staunchly  defended  their  rights.  He 
died  at  Limerick  Dec.  7, 1833.  His  principal  works  are 
Sermons  on  Subjects  chiefly  practical,  etc.  (Lond.  1815, 
8 vo,  and  often)  -.—Practical  Theology  (Lond.  1830,  and 
again  1837,2  vols.  8vo): — Pastoral  Instructions  on  the 
Character  of  the  Church  of  England  (London,  1831  [new 
ed.  1844],  sm.  8vo) : — Thirty  Years'  Correspondence  teith 
A lexandrr  Knox,  Esq.  (London.  1834,  2 vols.  8vo).  But 
by  far  his  most  important  work  is  his  Sacred  Literature 
(London,  1820,  8vo,  and  often),  intended  chiefly  as  a re- 
view of  the  works  of  Lowth  on  Hebrew  poetry  and  Isai- 
ah. “Bishop  Jebb  undertakes  to  controvert  some  of 
the  principles  of  I)r.  Lowth,  and  to  show  that  the  crite- 
ria by  which  the  latter  would  determine  what  is  poetry 
in  Hebrew  are  to  be  found  in  the  New  Testament  as 
well  as  the  Old.  Aside  from  this  controversy  with 
Lowth,  the  work  contains  many  illustrations  and  expla- 
nations of  difficult  or  obscure  passages,  valuable  to  the 
Biblical  scholar.  ‘No  book  of  criticism  has  lately  ap- 


peared more  worthy  the  attention  of  the  student  of  the 
Bible.’”  See  Life  of  Bishop  Jebb,  with  a selection  from 
his  letters,  by  Rev.  Charles  Forster  (2d  ed.  Lond.  1837, 
8vo) ; Allibone,  Dictionary  of  Authors,  s.  v.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Jeberechi'ah  (Heb.  Yeberekyah',  only  iu  the  par- 
agogic  form  Yebei’ekya'hu,  blessed  by  Jeho- 

vah; Sept.  Bapayt’c/f)?  the  father  of  Zechariah,  which 
latter  Isaiah  took  as  one  of  the  witnesses  of  his  marriage 
with  “the  prophetess”  (Isa. viii, 2).  B.C. cir. 739.  Both 
the  Sept,  and  the  Yulg.  give  the  name  in  its  ordinary 
form,  Barachiah,  and,  as  we  do  not  find  it  elsewhere, 
the  initial  *'  is  probably  an  error,  which  may  be  account- 
ed for  by  supposing  the  preceding  word  ‘p  to  have  been 
originally  plural,  “OS,  the  two  witnesses  being  both  sons 
of  Barachiah,  and  the  final  letter,  by  a mistake  of  the 
copyist,  to  have  been  prefixed  to  the  following  word. 
The  same  pair  of  names  seems  to  have  been  of  no  un- 
frequent occurrence  in  the  priestly  houses.  Zechariah 
the  prophet  was  son  of  Berechiah  (Zech.  i,  1),  and  we 
have  “ Zacharias,  son  of  Barachias”  (Matt,  xxiii,  3,  5). 
Josephus  also  ( War,  iv,  5,  4)  mentions  another  Zacha- 
rias, son  of  Baruch. — Kitto.  See  Zechariah. 

Je'bus  (Heb.  Yebus',  trodden  hard,  i.  e.  perb. 

fastness;  Sept,  lefiovc),  the  name  of  the  ancient  Ca- 
naanitish  city  which  stood  on  Mount  Zion,  one  of  the 
hills  on  which  Jerusalem  was  built  ( Jebusi , Josh,  xv,  8 ; 
xviii,  16,  28).  In  Judg.  xix,  10  it  is  identified  with  Je- 
rusalem, and  in  1 Chron.  xi,  4,  5,  the  only  other  passage 
in  which  the  name  occurs,  it  is  identified  with  the  cas- 
tle of  Zion,  subsequently  called  the  castle  or  city  of  Da- 
vid. The  sides  of  Zion  descended  precipitously  on  the 
west  and  south  into  the  deep  valley  of  Hinnom,  and  on 
the  east  into  the  Tyropceon,  which  separated  it  from 
Moriah.  On  the  north  side  a branch  valley,  the  upper 
part  of  the  Tyropceon,  swept  round  it;  and  here  was  a 
ledge  of  rock  on  which  a massive  tower  was  afterwards 
founded,  perhaps  on  the  site  of  an  older  one.  Recent 
excavations  on  the  site  remarkably  corroborate  these 
facts.  See  Jerusalem.  Jebns  was  thus  naturally  a 
place  of  great  strength;  and,  being  strongly  fortified 
besides,  it  is  not  strange  that  the  Jebusites  should  have 
gloried  in  it  as  impregnable  (see  Rose,  Premium  Jebu- 
sceorum  eastri  expugnati,  Alt.  1729),  and  that  the  cap- 
ture of  it  by  David  should  have  been  considered  one  of 
his  most  brilliant  achievements  (2  Sam.  v,  8).  Even 
after  Jehus  was  captured,  and  Jerusalem  founded  and 
made  the  capital  of  Israel,  Zion  was  separately  fortified. 
It  seems  that  in  addition  to  the  “castle”  on  the  summit 
of  the  liilj  there  was  a lower  city  or  suburb,  perhaps 
lying  in  the  bottom  of  the  adjoining  valleys;  for  we 
read  that  the  children  of  Judah  bad  captured  and  burn- 
ed Jerusalem  (Judg.  i,  7,  8),  while  afterwards  it  is  said 
“the  Benjamites  did  not  drive  out  the  Jebusites  that 
inhabited  Jerusalem”  (ver.  21).  The  Jebusites  still  held 
the  “ castle,”  which  was  within  the  allotted  territory  of 
Benjamin,  but  the  children  of  Judah  drove  them  out  of 
the  lower  town,  which  was  situated  within  their  bor- 
ders. This  is,  in  substance,  the  explanation  given  by 
Josephus  (.In/,  v,  2,  2 and  5). — Kitto.  See  Jebusite. 

Jeb'usi  (Heb.  Yebusi '),  a word  used  in  the  original 
of  a place  and  its  inhabitants. 

1.  “Jebusi”  (‘,w:C!'ij  — the  Jebusite  ; Sept,  ’\ej3nvfrai, 
’If/3ooc,  Yulg.  Jebaswus),  the  name  employed  for  the 
city  of  Jerus,  only  in  the  ancient  document  describing 
the  landmarks  and  the  towns  of  the  allotment  of  Judah 
and  Benjamin  (Josh.  ^v,  8;  xviii,  16,  28).  In  the  first 
and  last  place,  the  explanatory  words,  “which  is  Jerusa- 
lem,” are  added.  In  the  first,  however,  our  translators 
have  given  it  as  “the  Jebusite.”  A parallel  to  this 
mode  of  designating  the  town  by  its  inhabitants  is 
found  in  this  very  list  in  Zemaraim  (xviii,  22),  Avim 
(ver.  23),  Ophni  (ver.  24),  and  Japhletite  (xvi,  3),  etc. 
— Smith. 

2.  “Jebusite”  or  “Jebusites,”  forms  indiscriminately 
employed  in  the  A.  Yers.,  although  in  the  original  the 


JEBUSITE 


195 


JEDAIAH 


name,  whether  applied  to  individuals  or  to  the  nation, 
is  never  found  in  the  plural ; always  singular.  The  full 
form  is  ; but  in  a few  places — viz.  2 Sam.  v,  6 ; 

xxiv,  1G,  18;  1 Chron.  xxi,  18  only — it  is  “ defectively” 
written  Without  the  article,  it  occurs 

in  2 Sam.  v,  8 ; 1 Chron.  xi,  G ; Zech.  ix,  7.  In  the  first 
two  of  these  the  force  is  much  increased  by  removing 
the  article  introduced  in  the  A.  Vers.,  and  reading  “ anil 
smiteth  a Jebusite.” — Smith.  See  Jebusite. 

Jeb'usite  (Ileb.  Yebusi',  Sept.  ’ltftovoaTog, 

but  Tf/3ou£  in  Josh,  xv,  8 ; xviii,  28,  or  1 tfiovg  in  Judg. 
xix,  11  ; 1 Chron.  xi,  4 ; also  ’Ufiovoai  in  Josh,  xviii, 
1G,  and  ’It/3otm  in  Ezra  ix,  1 ; A.  V.  “Jebusi”  in  Josh, 
xviii,  1G,  28),  the  name  of  the  original  inhabitants  of 
Jebus,  frequently  mentioned  (usually  last  in  the  list) 
amongst  the  seven  Canaanitisli  nations  doomed  to  de- 
struction (Gen.  x,  16;  xv,  21 ; Exod.  iii,  8,  17 ; xiii,  5; 
xxiii,  23;  xxxiii,  2;  xxxiv,  11  ; Numb,  xiii,  29;  Dent. 

vii,  1 ; xx,  17 ; Josh,  iii,  10;  ix,  1 ; xi,  3 ; xii,  8 ; xxiv, 
11 ; Judg.  iii,  5;  1 Kings  ix,20 ; 1 Chron.  i,  14 ; 2 Chron. 

viii, 7;  Ezra  ix,  1 ; Neh.  ix,  8).  They  appear  to  have 
descended  from  a grandson  of  Ilam  (Gen.  x,  16).  “ His 
place  in  the  list  is  between  Ileth  and  the  Amorites  (Gen. 
x,  16;  1 Chron.  i,  14),  a position  which  the  tribe  main- 
tained long  after  (Numb,  xiii,  29;  Josh,  xi,  3);  and  the 
same  connection  is  traceable  in  the  words  of  Ezekiel 
(xvi,  3,  45),  who  addresses  Jerusalem  as  the  fruit  of  the 
union  of  an  Amorite  with  a Ilittite”  (Smith).  At  the 
time  of  the  arrival  of  the  Israelites  (see  Jour.  Sac.  Lit. 
Oct.  1851,  ]).  1G7)  they  were  found  to  be  a considerable 
tribe  on  the  west  of  Jordan  (Josh,  ix,  1),  seated  on  one 
of  the  hills  of  Judah  (some  have  wrongly  inferred  Mo- 
riah from  2 Chron.  iii,  1,  but  in  2 Sam.  v,  9 it  is  clearly 
identified  with  Zion),  near  the  Hittites  and  Amorites 
(Numb,  xiii,  30 ; Josh,  xi,  3),  where  they  had  founded  a 
city  called  Jebus  (Josh,  xviii,  28 ; comp,  xix,  10),  prob- 
ably after  the  name  of  their  progenitor,  and  established 
a royal  form  of  government,  being  then  ruled  by  Adoni- 
zedek  (Josh,  x,  1 , 23).  See  Salem.  They  seem  to  have 
been  a warlike  tribe ; and,  although  they  were  defeated 
with  much  slaughter,  and  Adoni-zedek,  their  king,  slain 
by  Joshua  (Josh,  x),  and  though  a part  of  their  city 
seems  to  have  been  afterwards  taken,  sacked,  and  burn- 
ed by  the  warriors  of  Judah  (Judg.  i,  8),  yet  they  were 
not  wholly  subdued, but  were  able  to  retain  at  least  their 
acropolis  (Judg.  i,  21),  and  were  not  entirely  dispossessed 
of  it  till  the  time  of  David  (2  Sam.  v).  Being  situated 
on  the  border  (Josh,  xv,  8 ; xviii,  16),  between  Judah 
and  Benjamin,  to  either  of  which  it  is  indifferently  as- 
signed (Josh,  xv,  63;  xviii,  28;  Judg.  i,  21),  it  was  only 
at  this  late  date  secured  to  the  actual  territory  of  Da- 
vid’s tribe  (1  Chron.  xi).  He  made  it  the  capital  of  his 
kingdom  instead  of  Hebron  (Ewald,  Isr.  Gcsch.  ii,  583), 
but  did  not  wholl}'  expel  the  natives  (1  Kings  ix,  20). 
By  that  time  the  inveteracy  of  the  enmity  between  the 
Hebrews  and  such  of  the  original  inhabitants  as  re- 
mained in  the  land  had  much  abated,  and  the  rights  of 
private  property  were  respected  by  the  conquerors. 
This  we  discover  from  the  fact  that  the  site  on  which 
the  Temple  afterwards  stood  belonged  to  a Jebusite 
named  Araunali,  from  whom  it  was  purchased  by  king 
David,  who  declined  to  accept  it  as  a free  gift  from  the 
owner  (2  Sam.  xxiv;  1 Chron.  xxi).  This  afterwards 
became  the  site  of  Solomon’s  Temple  (2  Chron.  iii,  1). 
It  appears  that  the  Jebusites  subsisted  under  his  reign 
in  the  state  of  tributaries  or  slaves  (2  Chron.  viii.  7), 
and  even  so  continued  to  the  times  of  the  return  from 
Babylon  (Ezra  ix,  1).  See  Jerusalem. 

The  name  “Jebusite”  is  sometimes  put  for  the  city 
itself  inhabited  by  them  (i.  q.  “city  of  the  Jebusites,” 
Judg.  xix,  11),  as  in  Josh,  xv,  8;  xviii,  16;  also  poetical- 
ly, in  later  times,  for  its  successor,  Jerusalem  (Zech.  ix, 
7).  See  Jebusi. 

“In  the  apocryphal  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  the  ashes 
of  Barnabas,  after  his  martyrdom  in  Cyprus,  are  said  to 
have  been  buried  in  a cave  where  the  race  of  the  Jebu- 


sites formerly  dwelt,  and  previous  to  this  is  mentioned 
the  arrival  in  the  island  of  a pious  Jebusite,  a kinsman 
of  Nero  (.1  ct.  A post.  A poor.  p.  72,73,ed  Tisch.)’’  (Smith). 

Jecami'ah  (1  Chron.  iii,  18).  Sec  Jekamiaii. 

Jechiel  ben- Joseph,  of  Baris,  a Iiabbi,  flourish- 
ed in  the  13th  century,  lie  was  a disciple  of  the  cele- 
brated Jchudah  Sir-Lcon  (q.  v.).  But  little  is  known 
of  the  early  history  of  his  life.  In  the  prime  of  life  we 
find  him  in  Baris,  at  the  head  of  a theological  school, 
and  an  officiating  Kabbi  in  the  capital  of  France.  Dur- 
ing the  reign  of  Louis  IX  the  Humanists  made  every 
effort  to  cause  the  expulsion  of  the  Jews  from  France, 
where  they  were  enjoying  at  this  time  special  favors. 
They  accused  the  Jews  of  manifold  crimes,  and  asserted 
that  the  Talmud  contained  disrespectful  language  to- 
wards Jesus,  etc.;  and  though  the  king  hesitated  to 
believe  this,  he  was  finally  persuaded  to  appoint  a com- 
mission of  both  Christians  and  Jews  to  search  the 
Talmud  for  obnoxious  passages.  Of  the  four  Kabbis 
appointed,  Jechiel  ben-Joseph  headed  the  Jewish  com- 
mission, and  he  alone,  in  the  main,  carried  on  the  dis- 
putation, which  resulted  unfavorably  to  the  Jews.  In 
the  dispute  Jechiel  displayed  great  ability  and  learning, 
but  it  is  to  be  deplored  that  he  injured  his  cause  in  the 
eyes  of  the  historian  by  the  assertion  which  he  made 
that  the  name  of  Jesus  occurring  in  the  Talmud  does 
not  refer  to  Jesus  the  Christ.  See  Jews  in  France; 
Wagenseil,  Tela  iynea  Satanic  (2  vols.  4to) ; Griitz,  G’t- 
schichte  der  Judea,  vii,  115  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

J echoli'ah  (2  Kings  xv,  2).  See  Jecoliaii. 

Jechom'as  (’Ifyovinc),  a Graecizeil  form  of  two 
Hebrew  names  occurring  in  the  Apocrypha  and  N.  T. 

1.  In  Estli.  xi,  4 ; Bar.  i,  3,  9 ; Matt,  i,  11, 12,  for  king 
Jemoiakix  (q.  v.). 

2.  In  1 Esd.  viii,  92  for  Siieciianiaii  (q.  v.),  who  en- 
couraged Ezra  in  the  matter  of  divorcing  the  Gentile 
wives  (Ezra  x,  2). 

Jecoli'ah  (Heb.  Yekotyah',  2 Chron.  xxvi, 

3,  where  the  text  erroneously  has  1"!“^:^  ; Autli.  Vers. 
“Jecholiah;”  in  2 Kings  xv,  2,  the  paragogic  form  Ye- 
kolya'hu,  tllT’b-?, able  through  Jehovah  ; Sept.  ’If \t\ia ; 
Josephus  ’A\i«Xac,  J nt.  ix,  10, 1 ; Vulg.  Jechelia),  a fe- 
male of  Jerusalem,  mother  of  king  Uzziali,  and  conse- 
quently wife  of  king  Amaziali,  whom  she  appears  to 
have  survived : her  character  may  be  inferred  from  the 
general  piety'  of  her  son.  B.C.  824-807. 

Jeconi'ah  (1  Chron.  iii,  1G,  17 ; Jer.  xxiv,  1 ; xxvii, 
20;  xxviii,  4;  xxix,  1 ; Esth.  ii,  G).  See  Jeiioiachix. 

Jeconi'as  (Ttyovioc),  a Graeeized  form  (1  Esd.  i, 
9)  of  the  name  elsewhere  given  (2  Chron.  xxxv,  9)  as 
Coxaxj  aii  (q.v.). 

Jedes'us  (’Iteoiog),  a less  correct  form  (I  Esd.  ix, 
30)  of  the  Hebrew  name  (Ezra  x,  29)  Adalui  (q.  v.). 

Jeda'i'ah  (Heb.  Yeelayah '),  the  name  of  several  men, 
of  different  form  in  the  original. 

1.  (rt'l^,  invoker  of  Jehovah  ; Sept.  'Efre  v.  r.  ’Item 
and  ’I tCaia.)  Son  of  Sliimri  and  father  of  Allon,  of  the 
ancestors  of  Ziza,  a chief  Simeouite  who  migrated  to  the 
valley  of  Gedor  (1  Chron.  iv,  37).  B.C.  long  ante  711. 

2.  (Same  Hebrew  name  as  preceding ; Sept,  ’lee  nr  or.) 
j Son  of  Harumapli,  and  one  of  those  that  repaired  the 

walls  of  Jerusalem  after  the  exile  (Neh.  iii,  10).  B.C. 

446. 

3.  (ITI*  j;,  knowing  Jihovah  ; Sept,  ’leda.)  The 
chief  of  the  second  division  of  priests  as  arranged  by  Da- 
vid (1  Chron.  xxiv,  7).  B.C.  1014. 

4.  (Same  Heb.  name  as  preceding;  Sept.  Tiocot,  ’It£- 
tfoiw,  IrtCiVi,  T itiag,  'Qeoviae;,"E?ioc,  let  t'iov,  AiTtion.) 
A priest  who  officiated  in  Jerusalem  after  the  exile  (1 
Chron.  ix,  10 ; Neh.  xi,  10 ; in  which  latter  passage,  how- 
ever, he  is  styled  the  son  of  Joiarib,  evidently  the  same 
as  the  Jehoiarib  with  whom  he  is  merely  associated  in 

1 the  former  passage).  From  Ezra  ii,  36;  Neh.  vii,  39, 


JEGAR-SAHADUTHA 


JEDDU  V96 


he  appears  to  have  belonged  to  the  family  of  Jeshua 
(973  of  his  relatives  having  returned  with  him  from  Bab- 
ylon), so  that  he  is  probably  the  same  with  the  priest 
Jedaiah  enumerated  (Neh.  xii,  G)  amongst  the  contem- 
poraries of  Jeshua  who  returned  with  Zerubbabel  (the 
name  apparently  being  repeated  in  verse  7 ; comp.  ver. 
19,  21,  where  the  same  repetition  occurs,  although  with 
the  mention  of  different  sons),  and  probably  also  identi- 
cal with  the  Jedaiah  whom  the  prophet  was  directed  to 
crown  with  the  symbolical  wreath  (Zech.  vi,  10,  14). 
B.C.  536-520. 

Jed'du  (Ucdov),  a corrupt  form  (1  Esd.  v,  24)  for 
the  Hebrew'  name  (Ezra  ii,  36)  Jedaiah  (q.  v.). 

Jedia'el  [most  Jedi'deT\  (Heb.  Yedidel', 
known  by  God;  Sept.  'Ia0u)\,’  Aod}\,  ’leStijX),  the  name 
of  at  least  three  men. 

1.  One  of  the  sons  of  Benjamin  (1  Chron.  vii,  6),  whose 
sons  (ver.  10)  and  descendants  are  enumerated  as  being 
17,200  warriors  in  David's  census  (ver.  11).  He  is,  per- 
haps, the  same  elsewhere  called  Ashbel  (1  Chron.  viii, 
1).  See  Benjamin  ; Jacob. 

2.  A Shimrite  (q.  v.) ; one  of  David’s  famous  body- 
guard (1  Chron.  xi,  45) ; probably  the  Manassite  of  the 
same  name  who  joined  David’s  troop  at  Ziklag  (1  Chron. 
xii,  20).  B.C.  1053-1046. 

3.  A Korhite  of  the  Levitical  family  of  Ebiasaph,  sec- 
ond son  of  Meshelemiah,  and  one  of  the  gate-keepers  to 
the  tabernacle  or  Temple  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  2).  B.C.  1014. 

Jedi'dah  (Heb.  Yedidah',  beloved;  Septnag. 

T edcica ; Josephus  Tec//,  A nt.  xi,  4, 1 ),  daughter  of  Adai- 
ah  of  Boskath  and  mother  of  king  Josiah,  consequently 
wife  of  king  Amon,  whom  she  appears  to  have  survived 
(2  Kings  xxii,  1).  Her  character  may  be  inferred  from 
the  piety  of  her  son.  B.C.  648-639. 

J edidi'ah  (Heb.  Yeduleyah',  beloved  by 

Jehovah  ; Sept.  TeckW),  the  name  specially  given  by  the 
Lord  to  Solomon  (q.  v.)  at  his  birth,  through  Nathan, 
in  token  of  the  divine  favor  purposed  towards  him  (2 
Sam.  xii,  25). 

Jedithun.  See  Jedutiiun. 

Jedna  (’Iidvd),  a town  mentioned  by  Eusebius  and 
Jerome  ( Onomast . s.  v.)  as  lying  ‘‘in  the  desert,  six  miles 
from  Eleutlieropolis  towards  Hebron,”  precisely  in  which 
location  stands  the  modern  village  Idhna  (liobinson,  Re- 
searches, ii,  404). 

Jed'uthun  (Hebrew  Yeduthun',  isirvn^  or  ; 
also  Yedithun',  in  1 Chron.  xvi,  38;  Neh.  xi, 

17  ’ ,1>fa-  ;xxx  aiul  lxxvii)  titles;  lander;  Sept.  ’Id&ovv, 
but  TtiiSwv  in  1 Chron.  ix,  16),  a Levite  of  Merari’s  fami- 
ly,  and  one  of  the  four  great  masters  of  the  Temple  music 
appointed  by  David  (1  Chron.  xvi, ’41,  42 ; xxv,  1,  etc.). 
B.C.  1 014.  From  a comparison  of  1 Chron.  xv,  17, 19,  with 
xvi,  41,  42;  xxv,  1,  3,  6:  2 Chron.  xxxv,  15,  some  infer 
that  he  was  identical  with  Ethan  (q.  v.).  In  2 Chron. 
xxxv,  15,  he  bears  the  title  of  “the  king’s  seer.”  His 
sons  sometimes  appear  as  exercising  the  same  office  (1 
Chron.  xxv,  1,  3),  at  others  as  door-keepers  of  the  sacred 
edifice  (1  Chron.  xvi,  42).  Ilis  name  is  also  put  for  his 
descendants  ( Jeduthunites , “sons  of  Jeduthun”),  who 
occur  later  as  singers  and  plavers  on  instruments  (2 
Chron.  xxxv,  15;  Neh.xi,17).  ' In  the  latter  significa- 
tion it  occurs  in  the  superscriptions  to  Psa.  xxxix,  lxii, 
lxxvii  ; but  Aben-Ezra  supposes  it  to  denote  here  a spe- 
cies of  song,  and  Jarchi  a musical  instrument.  The 
form  of  the  phrase  Cpr“P  b’J,  “ upon  Jeduthun”)  fa- 
vors the  latter  interpretation  (Gesenius,  Thes.  Heb.  p. 
569).  indicating  a kind  of  instrumental  music,  or  per- 
haps a style  or  tunc  of  performance  (Ewald,  Ih-b.  Poesie, 
p.  176)  invented  or  introduced  by  Jeduthun;  a conclu- 
sion strengthened  by  finding  a phrase  indicative  of  au- 
thorship (■jSirciT’b,  “to  Jeduthun,”  i.  e.  composed  by 
him),  ascribed  in  a similar  connection  (Psa.  xxxix,  ti- 
tle), since  he  is  elsewhere  recognised  as  an  inspired 
character  (2  Chron.  xxxv,  15).  See  Musician. 


Jeejeebhoy,  Sir  Jamsetjee,  a Parsee  merchant 
prince  and  great  philanthropist,  who  wras  born  of  poor 
parents  at  Bombay,  July  15,  1783,  and  at  the  age  of 
twenty  had  already  amassed  a fortune  vrhich  secured 
him  the  universal  acknowledgment  as  the  “first  mer- 
chant in  the  East,”  spent  a good  portion  of  his  fortune 
in  the  endowment  of  schools  and  hospitals.  From  1822 
to  1858  he  is  reported  to  have  spent  “upwards  of  a quar- 
ter of  a million  pounds  sterling  in  founding,  endowing, 
or  supporting  undertakings  of  a purely  benevolent  char- 
acter;” but  what  is  more  noteworthy  still  is  that  this 
Parsee  merchant  by  no  means  confined  his  charitable 
efforts  to  his  own  confession : Christian,  Hindu,  and 
Mussulman  also  shared  the  benefits  of  his  magnanimous 
acts.  In  1857  queen  Victoria  conferred  on  him  the 
honor  of  knighthood  — the  first  occasion  on  which  that 
dignity  was  bestowed  on  an  Eastern.  He  died  April 
15, 1859.  See  Chambers,  Cyclop,  s.  v. 

Jee'li  (’I Eij\l  v.  r.  Ted/Xei),  a corrupt  Grnecized  form 
(1  Esd.  v.  33)  of  the  Heb.  name  (Ezra  ii,  56)  Jaalaii 
(q.  v.). 

Jee'lus  (Tei/Xoc  v.  r.  Tei/X),  a Groecized  form  (1 
Esd.  viii,  92)  of  the  Heb.  name  (Ezra  x,  2)  Jeihel  (q.  v.). 

Jee'zer  (Hebrew  le'zer,  abridged  for  Able- 

zer;  Sept.  Ayii&p),  a son  of  Gilead  of  Manasseh  (Numb, 
xxvi,  30) ; elsewhere  (Josh,  xvii,  2,  etc.)  called  Abiezer 
(q.  v.).  The  patronymic  Jeezerites  Heb. 

lezeri ',  Sept.  ’Ayif&pi)  is  in  like  manner  applied  to  his 
descendants  (Numb,  xxvi,  30),  elsewhere  called  Abiez- 
rites  (Judg.  vi,  11,  etc.). 

Jee'zerite  (Numb,  xxvi,  30).  See  Jeezer. 

Jeffery,  John,  an  English  theologian,  was  bom  at 
Ipswich  in  1647.  He  studied  at  Catharine  Ilall,  Cam- 
bridge, entered  the  Church,  and  was  appointed  rector 
of  Dennington,  Suffolk;  then  of  a parish  in  Norwich. 
His  exemplar}'  conduct,  sound  teachings,  and  great  eru- 
dition rendered  him  very  popular.  In  1687  he  obtained 
the  livings  of  Kirton  and  Falkenham,  and  in  1694,  Til- 
lotson,  with  whom  he  was  intimately  acquainted,  made 
him  archdeaeon  of  Norwich.  He  died  in  1720.  Jeffery 
w'as  much  opposed  to  religious  controversies,  holding 
that  they  generated  “more  heat  than  light.”  He  pub- 
lished Sir  Thomas  Browne’s  Christian  Morals ; Moral 
and  Reliyious  Aphorisms,  taken  from  Dr.  Wichcote’s  pa- 
pers. A complete  collection  of  his  own  Sermons  and 
Tracts  was  published  (London,  1753,  2 vols.  8vo).  See 
Memoirs  prefixed  to  the  collection;  Hoefcr,  Noav.  Biog. 
Generate , xxvi,  632;  Allibone,  Dictionary  of  Authors,  i, 
959. 

Jeffries,  George,  an  English  lawyer  of  the  crown, 
bom  about  1640,  w’as  chief  justice  of  the  King’s  Bench 
during  the  reign  of  James  II,  and  is  execrated  in  eccle- 
siastical history  for  his  conduct  towards  Baxter  (q.v.) 
and  Fairfax  (q.  v.).  He  seems  to  have  been  a man  of 
low  inclinations,  and  a ready  tool  in  the  hands  of  the 
court.  In  the  year  1688,  after  the  flight  of  king  James, 
he  w'as  recognised  at  London  during  the  riots  by  the 
rabble,  and,  after  “ having  suffered  far  more  than  the 
bitterness  of  death,  he  was  safely  lodged  in  the  fortress 
(the  Tower  of  London),  where  some  of  his  most  illustri- 
ous victims  had  passed  their  last  days,  and  where  his 
own  life  -was  destined  to  close  in  unspeakable  ignominy 
and  horror.”  He  died  April  18, 1689.  No  one  has  bet- 
ter delineated  his  character  than  Macaulay  {History  of 
England , vol.  ii),  and  we  refer  our  readers  to  this  able 
master  for  further  details.  See  also  Neale,  History  of 
the  Puritans,  ii,  317  sq.,  341. 

J e 'gar-sahadu'tha  (Chald.  Yegor' - Sahaduthu 
pile  of  the  testimony ; Sept,  fiovviig  njg 
ftaprnplag,  Vulgate  tumulus  testis ),  the  Aramaean  name 
given  by  Laban  as  a Syrian  to  the  mound  of  stones 
erected  as  a memorial  of  his  league  with  Jacob,  where- 
as the  latter  styled  it  (Gen.  xxxi,  47)  by  the  equivalent 
Hebrew  name  of  Gal-Eed  ^q.  v.). 


JEHALELEEL 


797 


JEIIOAHAZ 


Jehale'leel  [many  Jehal'eleel ] (Heb.  Yehallelel', 
y?,praiser  of  God),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  (Sept.  ’luXXtXijX,  Vulg.  J aided.)  A descendant 
of  Judah,  several  of  whose  sons  are  enumerated,  although 
his  own  immediate  parentage  is  not  mentioned  (1  Chron. 
iv,  16).  B.C.  apparently  cir.  1618. 

2.  (Sept.  Ta\A/y\,  Vulg.  Jalaleel , Auth.  Yers.  “ Jcha- 
lelel.”)  A Levite  of  the  family  of  Merari,  whose  son 
Azariah  aided  in  restoring  the  Temple  services  under 
Hezekiah  (2  Chron.  xxix,  12).  B.C.  ante  72G. 

Jehal'elel  (2  Chron.  xxix, 12).  See  Jeiialeleel,  2. 

Jehdei'ah  [some  J dale 'kill  or  JehdeVuli]  (Hebrew 
Yechdeyah' , only  in  the  paragogic  form  Yech- 

deya'lm,  rejoicer  in  Jehovah ; Sept.  TacVia,  ’I« Siatf),  the 
name  of  two  men. 

1.  A descendant  of  Shubael  or  Shebnel,  of  the  family 
of  Gersliom,  who  appears  to  have  been  head  of  a division 
of  the  Levitical  Temple  attendants  as  arranged  by  Da- 
vid (1  Chron.  xxiv,  20;  comp,  xxiii,  16).  B.C.  10*14. 

2.  A Meronothite,  and  herdsman  of  the  royal  asses 
under  David  and  Solomon  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  30).  B.C. 
1014. 


plies  some  union  of  civil  and  religious  functions  (2  Chron. 
xxxv,  8).  B.C.  623. 

8.  (Sept,  'letiiik  v.  r.  ’LY/yA.)  The  father  of  Obadi ah, 
which  latter  returned  with  his  relatives  of  the  sons  of 
Joab,  218  males,  from  Babylon  with  Ezra  (Ezra  viii,  9). 
B.C.  ante  459. 

9.  (Sept.  TsiyA  v.  r.  ’letifjX,  also  'laYiyA  v.  r.  AtW/X.) 
One  of  the  “sons”  of  Elam  (?  Persian)  who  divorced  his 
Gentile  wife  after  the  exile  (Ezra  x,  26);  probably  the 
same  with  the  father  of  Slieclianiah,  who  proposed  that 
measure  (verse  2).  B.C.  459. 

10.  (Sept.  Tfi/yX  v.  r.  ’It/yA.)  One  of  the  priests, 
“sons”  of  Ilarim,  who  divorced  his  Gentile  wife  after 
the  captivity  (Ezra  x,  21).  B.C.  459. 

Jehi'eli  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  21,22).  See  Jehiel,  1. 

Jehizki'ah  (Heb.  Yechizkiyah ',  only  in  the  para- 
gogic form  Yechizkiya'hu , MiYptrP,  i.  q.  Hezekiah  ; 
Sept.  ’E'^tKiat;),  son  of  Slialhim,  one  of  the  Ephraimitish 
leaders  who,  at  the  instance  of  the  prophet  Oded  (q.  v.), 
insisted  upon  the  liberation  and  humane  treatment  of 
the  captives  taken  and  brought  to  Samaria  in  the  incur- 
sion of  Pekah  upon  the  kingdom  of  Judah  (2  Chron. 
xxviii,  12 ; comp.  8, 13, 15).  B.C.  cir.  738. 


Jehez'ekel  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  16).  See  Ezekiel,  1. 

Jehi'ali  (Hebrew  Yeehiyah',  fYrP,  Jehovah's  living 
one;  Sept.  Tfa»«), a Levite  associated  with  Obed-edom  j 
as  door-keeper  of  the  sacred  ark  when  brought  by  David 
to  Jerusalem  (1  Chron.  xv,  24) ; elsewhere  (vcr.  18)  called 
Jehiel  (q.v.). 

Jelli'el  (Heb.  Yechiel’ , God's  living  one),  the 

name  of  several  men. 

1.  (1  Chron.  ix,35.)  See  Jeiel,  1. 

2.  (1  Chron.  xi,  44.)  See  Jeiel,  2. 

3.  (Sept.  ’ltii)X  or  'Ia/yA,  but  v.  r.  ’laSirjX  in  1 Chron. 

xvi,  5.)  One  of  the  Levites  “ of  the  second  degree”  ap- 
pointed by  David  to  execute  the  music  on  the  occasion 
of  the  removal  of  the  ark  to  Jerusalem  (1  Chron.  xv,  18, 
20,  in  which  latter  passage  they  are  said  to  have  per- 
formed “ with  psalteries  on  Alamoth”).  He  is  apparent- 
ly the  same  with  the  person  mentioned  (verse  24)  by  the 
synonymous  name  Jeihah,  although,  from  the  similar 
collocation  of  names,  others  have  confounded  this  with 
the  Jeiel  of  ch.  xvi,  5,  a name  of  different  signification. 
He  is  probably  identical  with  the  one  named  as  chief 
amongst  the  three  descendants  of  Laadan  (i.  e.  Libni) 
arranged  by  David  in  charge  of  the  Temple  porters  (1 
Chron.  xxiii,  8),  and  hence  likewise  with  the  Gershonite  j 
with  whom  were  deposited  the  gems  offered  by  the  peo- 
pie  for  the  sacred  structures  and  utensils  (1  Chron.  xxix, 
8).  B.C.  1043-1014.  It  is  doubtless  his  descendants 
who  wore  called  Jehielites  (Hebrew  Yechieli,  j 

Sept.  TfujX,  A.  XL  “ Jchieli,”  1 Chron.  xxvi,  21, 22). 

4.  (Sept.  'Ifpo'jX  v.  r.  LiyA,  XTdg.  Jaliiel.)  A Ilacli- 

monite  (“son  of  Ilaelimoni”)  who  appears  to  have  been  j 
tutor  in  the  royal  family  towards  the  close  of  David’s  j 
reign  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  32).  B.C.  cir.  1030.  “ The  men-  I 

tion  of  Ahithophel  (vcr.  33)  seems  to  fix  the  date  of  this  j 
list  as  before  the  revolt.  In  Jerome’s  Qucest.  Jlebruicte 
on  this  passage,  Jehiel  is  said  to  be  David's  son  Chilcab 
or  Daniel;  and  ‘Acliamoni,’  interpreted  as  Sapient  issi- 
tnus,  is  taken  as  an  alias  of  David  himself”  (Smith). 

5.  (Sept.  TcYf/X.)  The  second-named  of  the  six  sons 
of  king  Jehoshaphat  (2  Chron.  xxi,  2),  exclusive  of  his 
first-born  and  heir,  Jehoram,  who,  on  his  accession,  mur- 
dered all  his  brothers  (verse  4).  B.C.  887. 

6.  (Sept.  TiY/yX.)  A descendant  of  Ileman,  and  one 
of  the  Levites  who  assisted  Hezekiah  in  his  reformation 
of  the  public  religion  (2  Chron.  xxix,  14,  where  the  He- 
brew text  has  bx'rp,  YechueV ),  and  who  eventually  was 
appointed  one  of  the  superintendents  of  the  sacred  offer- 
ings (xxxi,  13).  B.C.  726. 

7.  (Sept.  TfV/yX.)  One  of  those  who  contributed  lib- 
erally to  the  renewal  of  the  Temple  sacrifices  under  Jo-  I 
siah ; stated  to  have  been  a “ prince”  or  courtier,  and,  at 
the  same  time,  a “ ruler  of  the  house  of  God,”  which  im- 


Jeho'adah  (Heb.  Yehoaddah’,  fnrifY,  Jehovah 
is  his  ornament- ; Sept,  "lunadei  v.  r.  ’Inca),  son  of  Ahaz, 
and  father  of  Alemeth  and  others  of  the  descendants  of 
Saul  through  Mephiboshetn  (1  Chron.  viii,  36),  called 
Jakaii  Y arah',  dropjnng  of  honey,  as  in  1 Sam. 

xiv,  27,  otherwise  woodsman , but  more  probably  a cor- 
rupt reading  for  i'HIY,  Yuhdu’,  i.  q.  Jehoadah  ; Sept. 
Tn£«,  XTdg.  Java)  in  the  parallel  passage  (l  Chron.  ix, 
42).  B.C.  considerably  post  1037. 

Jehoad'dan  (Heb.  Yehoaddan',  * ;Y“7Y,  i.  q.  Jeho- 
adah ; Sept.  Twacsv),  a female  of  Jerusalem,  motlur  of 
king  Amaziah,  and  consequently  wife  of  king  Jehoasli, 
whom  she  appears  to  have  survived  (1  Kings  xiv,  2;  2 
Chron.  xxv,  1 ; in  the  former  of  which  passages  the  text 
has  ‘,",nr*rY,  Yehoaddin ').  Her  character  may  per- 
haps be  inferred  from  the  partially  good  conduct  of  her 
son.  B.C.  862-837. 

Jeho'akas  (Heb.  Yehodchaz',  fnXTT,  Jehovedi  is 
his  holder,  i.  e.  sustainer ; Sept.  T iod\aZ. ; written  also  in 
the  contracted  form  THNY,  Yoachaz',  2 Kings  xiv,  1 ; 2 
Chron.  xxxvi,  2,  4 ; Sept.  I a)ci\a^ ; A.  XL  “ Jthoahaz”), 
the  name  of  three  kings.  See  also  Joauaz. 

1.  One  of  the  names  of  the  youngest  son  of  Jehoram 
of  Judah  (2  Chron.  xxi,  17,  Sept.  0\o%iai;),  and  father 
of  Josiah  (2  Chron.  xxv,  23,  Sept.  ’I way u Z)  ; usually 
called  Amaziah  (q.v.). 

2.  The  son  and  successor  of  John,  the  twelfth  sepa- 
rate king  of  Israd  (2  Kings  x,35).  He  reigned  seven- 
teen years,  B.C.  855-838  (Josephus  ’Ida^oc,  Aut.  ix.  8, 
5).  As  he  followed  the  evil  courses  of  the  house  of  Jer- 
oboam, the  Syrians,  under  Ilazael  and  Bcuhadad,  were 
suffered  to  prevail  over  him ; so  that  at  length  he  had 
only  left,  of  all  his  forces,  fifty  horsemen,  tin  chariots, 
and  10,000  foot.  Overwhelmed  by  his  calamities,  Jclio- 
ahaz  at  length  acknowledged  the  authority  of  Jehovah 
over  Israel,  and  humbled  himself  before  him,  in  consid- 
eration of  which  a deliverer  was  raised  up  for  Israel  in 
the  person  of  Jehoasli,  this  king’s  son  (B.C.  841.  whence 
the  latter’s  vieeroyship  is  dated,  2 Kings  xiii,  10),  who 
was  enabled  to  expel  the  Syrians  and  re-establish  the 
affairs  of  the  kingdom  (2  Kings  xiii,  1-9,  25).  See  Is-. 

KAEL,  KINGDOM  OK. 

3.  The  third  of  the  four  sons  of  Josiah  by  Hamutal, 

born  B.C.  632,  originally  called  Shallkm.  seventeenth 
separate  king  over  Judah  for  three  months  only,  B.C. 
609  (Josephus  1 J at.  x,  5,  2).  After  his  father 

had  been  slain  in  resisting  the  progress  of  Pharaoh-ne- 
cho,  Jehoahaz,  who  v'as  then  twenty-three  years  of  age, 
was  raised  to  the  throne  by  the  people  in  preference  to 
his  elder  brother  Jehoiakim  (2  Kings  xxiii,  31, 36),  and 

I received  at  Jerusalem  the  regal  anointing,  wrhich  seems 


JEHOASH 


JEHOASH  798 


to  have  been  usually  omitted  in  times  of  order  and  of 
regular  succession  (the  oldest  brother,  Johan  an  [1  Chron. 
iii”l5],  having  apparently  died  without  issue,  and  Zede- 
kiah  being  yet  too  young  [2  Chron.  xxvi,  11]).  He 
found  the  land  full  of  trouble,  but  free  from  idolatry. 
Instead,  however,  of  following  the  excellent  example  of 
his  father,  Jelioahaz  fell  into  the  accustomed  crimes  of 
his  predecessors,  and,  under  the  encouragements  which 
his  example  or  indifference  offered,  the  idols  soon  reap- 
peared. He  is  therefore  described  by  his  contempora- 
ries as  an  evil-doer  (2  Kings  xxiii,32)  and  an  oppressor 
(Ezek.  xix,  3),  and  such  is  his  traditional  character  in 
Josephus  {Ant.  x,  5,  2) ; but  his  deposition  seems  to  have 
been  lamented  by  the  people  (Jer.  xxii,  10  ; Ezek.  xix, 
1).  Pharaoh-necho,  on  his  victorious  return  from  the 
Euphrates,  thinking  it  politic  to  reject  a king  not  nom- 
inated by  himself,  removed  him  from  the  throne,  and 
set  thereon  his  brother  Jehoiakim.  The  deposed  king 
was  at  first  taken  as  a prisoner  to  Riblah,  in  Syria,  but 
was  eventually  carried  to  Egypt,  where  he  died  (2  Kings 
xxiii,  30-35;  2 Chron.  xxxvi,  1-4;  1 Chron.  iii,  15;  Jer. 
xxii,  10, 12).  See  Prideaux,  Connection , an.  G10 ; Ewald, 
Gesch.  Isr.  iii,  719 ; Rosenmiiller,  Schol.  in  Jer.  xxii,  11. 
See  Judah,  kingdom  of. 

Jeho'ash  (Heb.  Yehoash',  Jehovali-given; 

in  most  of  the  passages  in  2 Kings  only;  more  usually  in 
the  contracted  form  Yoash',  “ Joash,”  Sept.  Twdf, 

Josephus  ’I waoog),  the  name  of  two  kings.  See  also 
Joash. 

1,  The  son  of  king  Ahaziali  by  Libnah  of  Beersheba, 
was  horn  B.C.884;  made  king  at  the  age  of  seven  years, 
and  reigned  eighth  over  the  separated  kingdom  of  Ju- 
dah forty  years,  B.C.  877-837.  Jehoash,  when  an  in- 
fant, was  secretly  saved  by  his  aunt  Jehoshebath,  who 
was  married  to  the  high-priest  Jehoiada,  from  the  gen- 
eral massacre  of  the  family  by  Athaliali,  who  had  usurp- 
ed the  throne.  See  Jehoiada.  Jehoram  having  him- 
self killed  all  his  own  brethren,  and  all  his  sons,  except 
Ahaziah,  having  been  killed  by  the  irruption  of  the 
Philistines  and  Arabians,  and  all  Ahaziah’s  remoter  re- 
lations having  been  slain  by  Jehu,  and  now  all  his  sons 
being  put  to  death  by  Athaliah  (2  Chron.  xxi,  4,  17; 
xxii,  1, 8,  9, 10),  the  house  of  David  was  reduced  to  the 
lowest  ebb,  and  Jehoash  appears  to  have  been  the  only 
surviving  descendant  of  Solomon.  By  the  high-priest 
and  his  wife  the  child  was  privately  brought  up  in  the 
chambers  connected  with  the  Temple  till  he  was  in  his 
eighth  year,  when  Jehoiada  deemed  that  the  state  of 
affairs  required  him  to  produce  the  youthful  heir  of  the 
throne  to  the  people,  and  claim  for  him  the  crown  which 
his  grandmother  had  so  unrighteously  usurped.  Find- 
ing the  influential  persons  whom  he  consulted  favorable 
to  the  design,  everything  was  secretly  but  admirably 
arranged  for  producing  Jehoash,  and  investing  him  with 
the  regalia,  in  such  a manner  that  Athaliah  could  have 
no  suspicion  of  the  event  till  it  actually  occurred.  On 
the  day  appointed,  the  sole  surviving  scion  of  David’s 
illustrious  house  appeared  in  the  place  of  the  kings,  bv 
a particular  pillar  in  the  Temple  court,  and  was  crowned 
and  anointed  with  the  usual  ceremonies.  The  high- 
wrought  enthusiasm  of  the  spectators  then  found  vent 
in  clapping  of  hands  and  exulting  shouts  of  “ Long  live 
the  king!”  The  joyful  uproar  was  heard  even  in  the 
palace,  and  brought  Athaliah  to  the  Temple,  from  which, 
at  a word  from  Jehoiada,  she  was  led  to  her  death.  See 
Athaliah. 

Jehoash  behaved  well  during  his  minority,  and  so 
long  after  as  he  remained  under  the  influence  of  the 
high-priest.  Excepting  that  the  high-places  were  still 
resorted  to  for  incense  and  sacrifice,  pure  religion  was 
restored,  large  contributions  were  made  for  the  repair 
of  the  Temple,  which  was  accordingly  restored,  and  the 
country  seems  to  have  been  free  from  foreign  invasion 
and  domestic  disturbance.  But  when  this  venerable 
adviser  died  the  king  seems  to  have  felt  himself  reliev- 
ed from  a yoke,  and,  to  manifest  his  freedom,  began  to 


take  the  contrary  course  to  that  which  he  had  followed 
while  under  pupilage.  Gradually  the  persons  who  had 
possessed  influence  formerly,  when  the  house  of  David 
was  contaminated  by  its  alliance  with  the  house  of 
Ahab,  insinuated  themselves  into  his  councils,  and  ere 
long  the  worship  of  Jehovah  and  the  observances  of  the 
law  were  neglected,  and  the  land  was  defiled  with  idol- 
atries and  idolatrous  usages.  The  prophets  then  uttered 
their  warnings,  but  were  not  heard ; and  the  infatuated 
king  had  the  atrocious  ingratitude  to  put  to  death 
Zechariah,  the  son  and  successor  of  his  benefactor  Je- 
hoiada. For  these  deeds  Jehoash  was  made  an  example 
of  the  divine  judgments.  He  saw  his  realm  devastated 
by  the  Syrians  under  Hazael;  his  armies  were  cut  in 
pieces  by  an  enemy  of  inferior  numbers;  and  he  was 
even  besieged  in  Jerusalem,  and  only  preserved  his  cap- 
ital and  crown  by  giving  up  the  treasures  of  the  Tem- 
ple. Besides  this,  a painful  malady  embittered  all  his 
latter  days,  and  at  length  he  became  so  odious  that  his 
own  servants  conspired  against  him,  and  slew  him  on 
his  bed.  They  are  said  to  have  done  this  to  avenge 
the  blood  of  Zechariah,  who  at  his  death  had  cried, 
“The  Lord  look  upon  it  and  require  it;”  and  it  is  hence 
probable  that  public  opinion  ascribed  all  the  calamities 
of  his  life  and  reign  to  that  infamous  deed.  See  Zecii- 
akiaii.  Jehoash  was  buried  in  the  city  of  David,  but 
a place  in  the  sepulchre  of  the  kings  was  denied  to  his 
remains  (2  Kings  xi ; xii ; 2 Chron.  xxiv).  He  is  one 
of  the  three  kings*  (Ahaziah,  Jehoash,  Amaziah)  omit- 
ted by  Matthew  in  the  genealogy  of  Christ  (Matt,  i,  8). 

With  regard  to  the  different  accounts  of  the  Syrian 
invasion  given  in  2 Kings  and  in  2 Chron.,  which  have 
led  some  (as  Thenius  and  many  other  commentators) 
to  imagine  two  distinct  Syrian  invasions,  and  others  to 
see  a direct  contradiction,  or  at  least  a strange  incom- 
pleteness in  the  narratives,  as  Winer,  the  difficulty  ex- 
ists solely  in  the  minds  of  the  critics.  See  Syria.  The 
narrative  given  above,  which  is  also  that  of  Keil  and  E. 
Bertheau  ( Exeg . handb.  z.  A . T.)  as  well  as  of  Josephus 
{Ant.  ix,  8,  4),  perfectly  suits  the  two  accounts,  which 
are  merely  different  abridgments  of  the  one  fuller  ac- 
count contained  in  the  original  chronicles  of  the  king- 
dom.— Kitto;  Smith.  See  Judah,  Kingdom  of. 

2.  The  son  and  successor  of  Jehoahaz,  king  of  Israel; 
reigned  thirteenth  over  the  separate  kingdom  sixteen 
(nominal)  years,  B.C.  838-823,  and  for  about  one  year 
contemporaneously  with  his  namesake  of  Judah  (2  Kings 
xiv,  1 ; comp,  with  xii,  1,  xiii,  10),  When  he  succeed- 
ed to  the  crown  the  kingdom  was  in  a deplorable  state 
from  the  devastations  of  Hazael  and  Benliadad,  kings 
of  Syria,  of  whose  power  at  this  time  we  had  also  evi- 
dence in  the  preceding  article.  Jehoash,  it  is  true,  fol- 
lowed the  example  of  bis  predecessors  in  the  policy  of 
keeping  np  the  worship  of  the  golden  calves;  but,  apart 
from  this,  he  bears  a fair  character,  and  had  intervals, 
at  least,  of  sincere  piety  and  true  devotion  to  the  God 
of  his  fathers  (comp.  Josephus,  Ant.  ix,  8,  G).  Indeed, 
custom  and  long  habit  had  so  established  the  views  of 
political  expediency  on  which  the  scliismatical  estab- 
lishments at  Dan  and  Bethel  were  founded,  that  at 
length  the  reprehension  which  regidarly  recurs  in  the 
record  of  each  king’s  reign  seems  rather  to  apply  to  it 
as  a mark  of  the  continuance  of  a public  crime  than  as 
indicative  of  the  character  or  disposition  of  the  reigning 
prince,  which  is  to  be  sought  in  the  more  detailed  ac- 
counts of  his  own  eondnet.  These  accounts  are  favora- 
ble with  respect  to  Jehoash.  He  held  the  prophet  Eli- 
sha in  higli  honor,  looking  up  to  him  as  a father.  When 
he  heard  of  his  last  illness  he  repaired  to  the  bedside  of 
the  dying  prophet,  wept  over  liis  face,  and  addressed 
him  as  “ the  chariot  of  Israel  and  the  horsemen  there- 
of.” The  prophet  promised  him  deliverance  from  the 
Syrian  yoke  in  Apliek,  the  scene  of  Allah’s  great  victory 
over  a former  Benliadad  (1  Kings  xx,  2G-30).  He  then 
bid  him  smite  upon  the  ground,  and  the  king  smote 
thrice  and  then  stayed.  The  prophet  rebuked  liim  for 
staying,  and  limited  to  three  his  victories  over  Syria. 


JEIIOIIANAN 


799 


JEHOIACIIIN 


These  promises  were  accomplished  after  the  prophet’s 
death.  God  took  compassion  upon  the  extreme  misery 
of  Israel,  and,  in  remembrance  of  his  covenant  with 
Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  interposed  to  save  them 
from  entire  destruction.  In  three  signal  and  successive 
victories  Jehoash  overcame  the  Syrians,  and  retook 
from  them  the  towns  which  Hazael  had  rent  from  Is- 
rael. These  advantages  rendered  the  kingdom  of  Israel 
more  potent  than  that  of  Judah.  Jehoash,  however, 
sought  no  quarrel  with  that  kingdom,  but  he  neverthe- 
less became  involved  in  a war  with  Amaziah,  king  of 
Judah.  The  grounds  of  this  Avar  are  given  fully  in  2 
Chron.  xx\r.  See  Amaziah.  The  hiring  of  100,000 
men  of  Israel  for  100  talents  of  silver  by  Amaziah  is  the 
only  instance  on  record  of  such  a transaction,  and  im- 
plies that  at  that  time  the  kingdom  of  Israel  was  free 
from  all  fear  of  the  Syrians.  These  mercenary  soldiers, 
having  been  dismissed  by  Amaziah,  at  the  instigation 
of  a prophet,  Avithout  being  alloAved  to  take  part  in  the 
Edomitish  expedition,  returned  in  great  wrath  to  their 
oAvn  country,  and  sacked  and  plundered  the  cities  of 
Judah  in  rei’enge  for  the  slight  put  upon  them,  and  also 
to  indemnify  themseh-es  for  the  loss  of  their  share  of 
the  plunder.  It  AAras  to  aA-enge  this  injury  that  Amazi- 
ah, on  his  return  from  his  triumph  over  the  Edomites, 
declared  Avar  agrinst  Jehoash,  in  spite  of  the  warning 
of  the  prophet ; but  Jehoash,  Avhen  he  receded  the  de- 
fiance from  Amaziah,  ansAvered  Avith  becoming  spirit  in 
a parable  (q.  a-.),  which  by  its  images  calls  to  mind  that 
of  Jotham;  the  cool  disdain  of  the  ans\Arer  must  have 
been,  and  in  fact  Avas,  exceedingly  galling  to  Amaziah  : 
“ The  thistle  that  Avas  in  Lebanon  sent  to  the  cedar  that 
Avas  in  Lebanon,  saying,  Give  thy  daughter  to  my  son 
to  Avil'e;  and  there  came  by  a Avild  beast  that  Avas  in 
Lebanon  and  trod  down  the  thistle.”  This  Avas  admira- 
ble; nor  Avas  the  application  less  so:  “Thou  hast  in- 
deed smitten  Edom,  and  thine  heart  hath  lifted  thee  up : 
glory  of  this,  and  tarry  at  home;  for  Avhy  shouldest 
thou  meddle  to  thy  hurt,  that  thou  shouldest  fall,  even 
thou,  and  Judah  Avith  thee.”  In  the  Avar,  or,  rather,  ac- 
tion which  foIloAved,  Jehoash  Avas  victorious.  Having 
defeated  Amaziah  at  Bcth-shemesh,  in  Judah,  he  ad- 
vanced to  Jerusalem,  broke  doAvn  the  Avail  to  the  extent 
of  400  cubits,  and  carried  away  the  treasures  both  of  the 
Temple  and  the  palace,  together  Avith  hostages  for  the 
future  good  behaA-ior  of  the  crestfallen  Amaziah.  Je- 
lioash  himself  did  not  long  survive  this  victory ; he  died 
in  peace,  and  Avas  buried  in  Samaria  (2  Kings  xiv,  1-17). 
— Kitto;  Smith.  See  Israel,  kingdom  ok. 

J eho'hanan  (Heb.  Yehochanan' , *prrrP,  Jehovah- 
granted,  q.  d.  Bfocwpof),  the  name  of  several  men.  See 
also  Johan  ax;  John,  etc. 

1.  (Sept.  Toil'd  v.)  A Korhite,  and  head  of  the  sixth 
division  of  Levitical  Temple  porters  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  3). 
B.G.  1014. 

2.  (Sept.  ’Iwavav.)  Jehosliaphat’s  second  “ captain,” 
in  command  of  280,000  (?)  men  (2  Chron.  xvii,  15) ; 
probably  the  same  Avhose  son  Azariah  supported  Jelioi- 
ada  in  his  restoration  of  prince  Jehoash  (2  Chron.  xxiii, 
1).  B.C.  cir.  910. 

3.  (Sept.  ’lojavdv,  Auth.  Vers.  “Jolianan.”)  The  fa- 
ther of  Azariah,  Avhich  latter  Avas  one  of  the  Epliraimite 
chiefs  who  insisted  upon  the  return  of  the  captives  from 
the  rh'al  kingdom  (2  Chron.  xxviii,  12).  B.C.  ante  73X. 

4.  (Sept,  ’lioandv,  A.  Vers.  “ Johan  an.”)  A priest, 
the  “son”  of  Eliasliib,  into  Avhose  chamber  Ezra  retired 
to  beAvail  the  profligacy  of  his  countrymen  in  marrying 
Gentile  Avri-es  (Ezra  x,  0)  ; doubtless  the  same  elseAvhere 
called  Joiiaxax  in  the  original  (Xeh.  xii,  22,  23),  and 
perhaps  identical  Avith  No.  7 beloAv. 

5.  (Sept.  Toj avav.)  One  of  the  “ sons”  of  Behai,  Avho 
diA'orced  his  Gentile  wife  after  the  Babvlonian  exile 
(Ezra  x,  28).  B.C.  459. 

6.  (Sept.  'liovdSav  v.  r.  To tvav,  Auth.  Vers.  “ Joha- 
nan.”)  Son  of  Tobiah,  the  Samaritan  enemy  of  the 
JeAvs,  and  son-in-laAV  of  Meshullam  (Xeh.  vi,  18).  B.C. 
446. 


7.  (Sept.  Tuindv.)  One  of  the  priests  Avho  celebra- 
ted Avith  music  the  reparation  of  the  Avails  of  Jerusalem 
(Xeh.  xii,  42).  B.C.  446.  lie  Avas  perhaps  the  same 
with  Xo.  4 or  No.  8. 

8.  (Sept.  T wavai’.)  A leading  priest,  the  son  of 
Amariali,  and  contemporary  with  Joiakim  (Neh.  xii,  13). 
B.C.  cir.  406.  He  may  have  been  identical  Avith  the 
preceding. 

Jehoi'achin  (Heb.  YeMyakin ',  Jehovah- 

appointed ; Sept.  ’I ioa\ip  in  2 Kings  xxiv,  6,  8,  12,  15; 
xxa',  27 ; T{\oi/i'ct£  in  2 Chron.  xxxvi,  8,  9 ; Tukikei/i  in 
Jer.  lii,  31;  Josephus  Tuiayijuoe,  Ant.  x,  6,  3;  7,  1 ; N. 
Test.  Ttyoi/ittf,  “ Jechonias,”  Matt.  i,  1 1, 12 ; contracted 
once  ■p3“‘T*,  Yoyakin',  Ezck.  i.  2,  Sept.  Twaicri^,  Auth. 
Vers.  “ Jchoiachin”),  also  in  the  contracted  forms  Jkc- 
oniaii  (PP22?,  Yekonyali ',  Sept.  TtyoWag  in  Jer.  xxA'ii, 
20;  xxviii,  4;  xxix,  2;  1 Chron.  iii,  16,  17 ; but  omits 
in  Estli.  ii,  6;  likeAvise  paragogic  "PP2:*',  Yekonya'hu , 
Jer.  xxrir.  1,  Sept.  Tt^on'ac),  and  Coxiau  ( Konynh ', 
only  paragogic  Konya' hit,  Jer.  xxii,  24,  28; 

xxxvii,  1,  Sept.  Tfyoiu'ag),  son  of  Jelioiakim,  king  of 
Judah,  by  Nehushta,  daughter  of  Elnathau  of  Jerusa- 
lem ; he  succeeded  liis  father  as  the  nineteenth  monarch 
of  that  separate  kingdom,  but  only  for  three  months  and 
ten  days,  B.C.  598.  He  Avas  then  eighteen  years  of  age 
according  to  2 Kings  xxh-,  8,  but  only  eight  according 
to  2 Chron.  xxxaA,  9.  Many  attempts  liaA-e  been  made 
to  reconcile  these  dates  (see  J.  D.  31  idler,  ])e  rtb.  duar. 
tribuum  regni  Jud.  adverse,  Lipsiie,  1745;  Oeder,  Freie 
Untersnch.  iiber  einige  A Ittest.-Biicher,  p.  214  ; OffV  rliaus, 
Spicileg.  p.  193),  the  most  usual  solution  being  that  he 
bad  reigned  ten  years  in  conjunction  Avith  bis  lather,  so 
that  he  Avas  eight  Avhen  be  began  his  joint  reign,  but 
eighteen  when  he  began  to  reign  alone.  There  are, 
liOAveA'er,  difficulties  in  this  vicAv  which,  perhaps,  IcaA'e 
it  the  safest  course  to  conclude  that  “eight”  in  2 Chron. 
xxxA'i,  9,  is  a corruption  of  the  text,  such  as  might 
easily  occur  from  the  relation  of  the  numbers  eight  and 
eighteen.  (All  the  versions  read  eighteen  in  Kings, 
and  so  the  Vnlg.  and  many  MSS.  of  the  Sept,  in  Chron., 
as  Avell  as  at  1 Esd.  i,  43.  Among  recent  commentators, 
Keil,  Thenius,  and  Ilitzig  favor  the  reading  eighteen, 
Avliile  Bertlieau  prefers  eight.  The  language  in  Jer. 
xxii,  24-30  is  not  decisive,  for  the  epithets  there  applied 
to  Jechoniah  do  not  necessarily  imply  adult  age,  al- 
though they  more  naturally  agree  Avith  it.  The  same 
remark  applies  to  the  allusion  in  Ezek.  xix,  5-9.  The 
decided  reprobation,  lioAve\rer,  in  2 Kings  xxi\%  9,  and  in 
2 Chron.  xxxaT,  9.  Avoidd  hardly  be  used  of  a mere  child. 
The  mention  of  liis  mother  in  2 Kings  xxiv,  12  does  not 
imply  his  minority,  for  the  queen-doAvager  AVas  a veiy 
important  number  of  the  royal  family.  The  number 
eight,  indeed,  Avould  bring  Jehoiaeliin’s  birth  in  the  year 
of  the  beginning  of  the  captivity  by  Nebuchadnezzar's 
invasion,  and  thus  exactly  agree  Avith  the  language  in 
Matt,  i,  11 ; but  the  expression  “and  bis  brethren”  add- 
ed there,  as  Avell  as  the  language  of  the  following  Averse, 
agrees  better  Avith  a less  precise  correspondence,  as  like- 
Avise the  qualifying  “about”  indicates.  The  argument 
draAvn  from  liis  father’s  age  at  death,  thirty-six  [2  Kings 
xxiii,  36],  is  laA'orable  to  Jehoiaeliin’s  maturity  at  the 
time,  for  most  of  these  kings  became  fathers  A’ery  early, 
Josiah,  e.  g.,  at  fifteen  [2  Kings  xxii,  1 , comp,  with  xxiii, 
36].)  He  was,  therefore,  born  in  B.C.  616. 

Jehoiaeliin  folloAved  the  evil  courses  Avhich  had  al- 
ready brought  so  much  disaster  upon  the  royal  house 
of  David,  and  upon  the  people  under  its  sway.  He 
seems  to  have  very  speedily  indicated  a political  bias 
adverse  to  the  interests  of  the  Chalda?an  empire,  for  in 
three  months  after  his  accession  Ave  find  the  generals  of 
Nebuchadnezzar  again  laying  siege  to  Jerusalem,  ac- 
cording to  the  predictions  of  Jeremiah  (xxii,  18-xxrv, 
30).  Jehoiaeliin  had  come  to  the  throne  at  a time 
Avhen  Egypt  Avas  still  prostrate  in  consequence  of  the 
victor}-  at  Carcheinish,  and  Avhen  the  JeAvs  had  been  for 
three  or  four  years  harassed  and  distressed  by  the  in- 


JEHOIACHIN' 


800 


JEHOIADA 


roads  of  the  armed  bands  of  Chaldseans,  Ammonites, 
and  Moabites,  sent  against  them  by  Nebuchadnezzar  in 
consequence  of  Jehoiakim’s  rebellion.  See  Jehoiakui. 
Jerusalem  at  this  time,  therefore,  was  quite  defenceless, 
and  unable  to  offer  any  resistance  to  the  regular  army 
which  Nebuchadnezzar  sent  to  besiege  it  in  the  eighth 
year  of  his  reign,  and  which  he  seems  to  have  joined  in 
person  after  the  siege  was  commenced  (2  Kings  xxiv, 
10, 11).  In  a very  short  time,  apparently,  and  without 
any  losses  from  famine  or  lighting  which  would  indicate 
a serious  resistance,  Jehoiachin  surrendered  at  discre- 
tion ; and  he,  and  the  queen-mother,  and  all  his  servants, 
captains,  and  officers,  came  out  and  gave  themselves  up 
to  Nebuchadnezzar,  who  treated  them,  with  the  harem 
and  the  eunuchs,  as  prisoners  of  war  (Jer.  xxix,  2 ; Ezek. 
xvii,  12 ; xix.  9).  He  was  sent  away  as  a captive  to 
Babylon,  with  his  mother,  his  generals,  and  his  troops, 
together  with  the  artilicers  and  other  inhabitants  of  Je- 
rusalem, to  the  number  of  ten  thousand.  (This  number, 
found  in  2 Kings  xxiv,  14,  is  probably  a round  number, 
made  up  of  the  7000  soldiers  of  ver.  16,  and  the  3023 
nobles  of  Jer.  lii,  28,  exclusive  of  the  1000  artificers  men- 
tioned in  2 Kings  xxiv,  16;  see  Brown’s  Ordo  Sceclorum, 
p.  186.)  Among  these  was  the  prophet  Ezekiel.  Few 
were  left  but  the  poorer  sort  of  people  and  the  unskilled 
laborers ; few,  indeed,  whose  presence  could  he  useful  in 
Babylon  or  dangerous  in  Palestine.  See  Captivity. 
Neither  did  the  Babylonian  king  neglect  to  remove  the 
treasures  which  could  yet  be  gleaned  from  the  palace  or 
the  Temple,  and  he  now  made  spoil  of  those  sacred  ves- 
sels of  gold  which  had  been  spared  on  former  occasions. 
These  were  cut  up  for  present  use  of  the  metal  or 
for  more  convenient  transport,  whereas  those  formerly 
taken  had  been  sent  to  Babylon  entire,  and  there  laid 
up  as  trophies  of  victory.  If  the  Chaldrean  king  had 
then  put  an  end  to  the  show  of  a monarchy  and  annex- 
ed the  country  to  his  own  dominions,  the  event  would 
probably  have  been  less  unhappy  for  the  nation;  but, 
still  adhering  to  his  former  policy,  he  placed  on  the 
throne  Mattauiah,  the  only  surviving  son  of  Josiah, 
whose  name  he  changed  to  Zedekiah  (2  Kings  xxiv,  11- 
16;  2 Chron.  xxxvi,  9,  10;  Jer.  xxxvii,  1).  See  Neb- 
uchadnezzar. 

Jehoiachin  remained  a captive  at  Babylon — actually  in 
prison  (i03  ““2),  and  wearing  prison-garments  (Jer. 
li,  31, 33 — for  tliirtv-six  years,  viz.  during  the  lifetime  of 
Nebuchadnezzar;  but,  when  that  prince  died,  his  son, 
Evil-merodaeh,  not  only  released  him,  but  gave  him  an 
honorable  seat  at  his  own  table,  with  precedence  over 
all  the  other  dethroned  kings  who  were  kept  at  Bab- 
ylon, and  an  allowance  for  the  support  of  his  rank  (2 
Kings  xxv,  27-30 ; Jer.  lii,  31-34).  B.C.  561.  To  what 
he  owed  this  favor  we  are  not  told,  but  the  Jewish  com- 
mentators allege  that  Evil-merodach  had  himself  been 
put.  into  prison  by  his  father  during  the  last  years  of  his 
reign,  and  had  there  contracted  an  intimate  friendship 
with  the  deposed  king  of  Judah.  We  learn  from  Jer. 
xxviii,  4 that,  four  years  after  Jehoiachin  had  gone  to  | 
Babylon,  there  was  a great  expectation  at  Jerusalem  of 
his  return,  but  it  does  not  appear  whether  Jehoiachin 
himself  shared  this  hope  at  Babylon.  The  tenor  of  Jer- 
emiah’s letter  to  the  elders  of  the  captivity  (chap,  xxix) 
would,  however,  indicate  that  there  was  a party  among 
the  captivity,  encouraged  by  false  prophets,  who  were  at 
this  time  looking  forward  to  Nebuchadnezzar’s  over- 
throw and  Jehoiachiu’s  return  ; and  perhaps  the  fearful 
death  of  Ahab,  the  son  of  Kolaiah  (verse  22),  and  the 
close  confinement  of  Jehoiachin  through  Nebuchadnez-  1 
zars  reign,  mat'  have  been  the  result  of  some  disposi- 
tion to  conspire  against  Nebuchadnezzar  on  the  part  of 
a portion  ol  the  captivity.  But  neither  Daniel  or  Eze- 
kiel, who  were  Jehoiachin’s  fellow-captives,  make  any 
further  affusion  to  him,  except  that  Ezekiel  dates  his 
prophecies  by  the  year  “of  king  Jehoiachin’s  captivity” 
(i,  2 ; viii,  1 ; xxiv,  1,  etc.) ; the  latest  date  being  “the 
twenty-seventh  year”  (xxix,  17  ; xl,  1).  We  also  learn 
from  Esth.  ii,  6 that  Kish,  the  ancestor  of  Mordecai,  was  ; 


[ Jehoiachin’s  fellow-captive.  But  the  apocryphal  books 
I are  more  communicative.  Thus  the  author  of  the  book 
I of  Baruch  (i,  3)  introduces  “ Jechonias,  the  son  of  Jehoi- 
akim,  king  of  Judah,”  into  his  narrative,  and  represents 
I Baruch  as  reading  his  prophecy  in  his  ears  and  in  the 
ears  of  the  king’s  sons,  and  the  nobles,  and  elders,  and 
people,  at  Babylon.  At  the  hearing  of  Baruch’s  words, 

[ it  is  added,  they  wept,  and  fasted,  and  prayed,  and  sent 
a collection  of  silver  to  Jerusalem,  to  Joiakim,  the  son 


| which  to  purchase  burnt-offerings,  and  sacrifices,  and  in- 
cense, bidding  them  pray  for  the  prosperity  of  Nebu- 
chadnezzar, and  Belshazzar  his  son.  The  history  of 
Susanna  and  the  elders  also  apparently  makes  Jehoi- 
achin an  important  personage,  lor,  according  to  the  au- 
thor, the  husband  of  Susanna  was  Joiakim,  a man  of 
great  wealth,  and  the  chief  person  among  the  captives, 
to  whose  house  all  the  people  resorted  for  judgment — a 
description  which  suits  Jehoiachin.  Africanus  (Ep.  ad 
Orig. ; Koutli,  Rel.  Sac.  ii,  1 13)  expressly  caffs  Susanna’s 
husband  king,  and  says  that  the  king  of  Babylon  had 
made  him  his  royal  companion  (<rni'3povoc).  He  is 
also  mentioned  in  1 Esd.  v,  5,  but  the  text  seems  to  be 
corrupt.  That  Zedekiah,  who  in  1 Chron.  iii,  16  is  call- 
ed “ his  son,”  is  the  same  as  Zedekiah  his  uncle  (call- 
ed “ his  brother”  in  2 Chron.  xxxvi,  10),  who  was  his 
successor  on  the  throne,  seems  certain.  But  it  is  prob- 
able that  “Assir”  (“i3N  ==  captive),  who  is  reckoned 
amongst  the  family  of  Jeconiah  in  1 Chron.  iii,  17,  may 
really  have  been  only  an  appellative  of  Jeconiah  him- 
self (see  Bertlieau  on  1 Chron.  iii,  16).  See  Assir.  In 
the  genealogy  of  Christ  (Matt,  i,  11)  he  is  named  in  the 
received  text  as  the  “ son  of  Josias”  his  grandfather,  the 
name  of  Jehoiakim  having  probably  been  omitted  by  er- 
roneous transcription.  See  Genealogy.  In  the  dark 
portrait  of  his  early  character  by  the  prophet  (Jer.  xxii, 
30),  the  expression  “ Write  ye  this  man  childless”  refers 
to  his  having  no  successor  on  the  throne,  for  he  had 
children  (see  Meth.  Quar.  Revieic,  Oct.,  1852,  p.  602-4). 
See  Salathiel.  Josephus,  however  (A  nt.  x,  7, 1),  gives 
him  a lair  character  (see  Keil,  Commentary  on  Kings,  p. 
602).  The  compiler  of  1 Esd.  gives  the  name  of  Jecho- 
nias to  Jehoahaz,  the  son  of  Josiah,  who  reigned  three 
months  after  Josiah’s  death,  and  was  deposed  and  car- 
ried to  Egypt  by  Bharaoh-necho  (1  Esd.  i,  34 : 2 Kings 
xxiii,  30).  He  is  followed  in  this  blunder  by  Epiphani- 
us  (i,  21),  who  says  “Josiah  begat  Jechoniah,  who  is 
also  called  Shallum.  This  Jechoniah  begat  Jcclioniah 
who  is  called  Zedekiah  and  Joakim.”  It  has  its  origin, 
doubtless,  in  the  confusion  of  the  names  when  written  in 
Greek  by  writers  ignorant  of  Hebrew. — Kitto ; Smith. 
See  Judaii,  kingdom  of. 

Jehoi'ada  (Hebrew  Yehuyada' , Jehovah- 

knoicn  ; Sept.  Twio^cr,  Twioct,  Twcc/t),  the  name  of  two 
or  more  priests. 

1.  The  father  of  Benaiah,  which  latter  was  one’ of 
David’s  chief  warriors  (2  Sam.  viii,  18;  xx,  23  ; xxiii, 
20,  22 ; 1 Kings  i,  8,  26,  32,  36,  38,  44 ; ii,  25.  29, 34, 35, 
46;  iv,4;  1 Chron.  xi,  22, 24 ; xviii,17  ; xxvii,5).  B.C. 
ante  1046.  He  is  probably  the  same  mentioned  as  as- 
sisting David  at  Hebron  as  leader  ("PS2)  of  3700  armed 
Aaronites  (l  Chron.  xii,  27);  Josephus,  who  calls  him 
T hicapoe,  says  4700  Levites  (-4  nt.  vii,  2, 3).  In  1 Chron. 
xxvii,  34,  his  name  seems  to  have  been  erroneously 
transposed  with  that  of  his  son. 

2.  The  high-priest  at  the  time  of  Athalialfs  usurpa- 
tion of  the  throne  of  Judah  (B.C.  883-877),  and  during 
the  most  of  the  reign  of  Jehoash.  It  does  not  appear 
when  he  first  became  high-priest,  but  it  may  have  been 
as  early  as  the  latter  part  of  Jelioshaphat’s  reign.  He 
married  Jehosheba  or  Jehoshabeath,  daughter  of  king 
Jehoram,  and  sister  of  king  Ahaziah  (2  Chron.  xxii,  1 1) ; 
and  when  Athaliah  slew  all  the  royal  family  of  Judah 
after  Ahaziah  had  been  put  to  death  by  Jehu,  he  and  his 
wife  stole  Jehoash  from  amongst  the  king’s  sons  and  hid 
him  for  six  years  in  the  Temple,  and  eventually  replaced 


JEHOIADA 


801 


JEHOIAKIM 


him  on  the  throne  of  his  ancestors.  See  Athaliah. 
In  effecting  this  happy  revolution,  by  which  both  the 
throne  of  David  and  the  worship  of  the  true  God  accord- 
ing to  the  law  of  Moses  were  rescued  from  imminent 
danger  of  destruction,  Jehoiada  displayed  great  ability 
and  prudence.  Waiting  patiently  till  the  tyranny  of 
Athaliah — and,  we  may  presume,  her  foreign  practices 
and  preferences — had  produced  disgust  in  the  land,  he  at 
length,  in  the  7th  year  of  her  reign,  entered  into  secret 
alliance  with  all  the  chief  partisans  of  the  house  of  Da- 
vid and  of  the  true  religion,  lie  also  collected  at  Jeru- 
salem the  Levites  from  the  different  cities  of  Judah  and 
Israel,  probably  under  cover  of  providing  for  the  Tem- 
ple services,  and  then  concentrated  a large  and  conceal- 
ed force  in  the  Temple  by  the  expedient  of  not  dismiss- 
ing the  old  courses  of  priests  and  Levites  when  their 
successors  came  to  relieve  them  on  the  Sabbath.  By 
means  of  the  consecrated  shields  and  spears  which  Da- 
vid had  taken  in  his  wars,  and  which  were  preserved  in 
the  treasury  of  the  Temple  (comp.  1 Chron.  xviii,  7-11 ; 
xxvi,  20-28;  1 Kings  xiv,  26,  27),  he  supplied  the  cap- 
tains of  hundreds  with  arms  for  their  men.  Having 
then  divided  the  priests  and  Levites  into  three  bands, 
which  ■were  posted  at  the  principal  entrances,  and  filled 
the  courts  with  people  favorable  to  the  cause,  he  pro- 
duced the  young  king  before  the  whole  assembly,  and 
crowned  and  anointed  him,  and  presented  to  him  a 
copy  of  the  Law  according  to  Dent,  xvii,  18-20.  See 
Htlkjaii.  The  excitement  of  the  moment  did  not 
make  him  forget  the  sanctity  of  God’s  house.  None 
but  the  priests  and  ministering  Levites  were  permitted 
by  him  to  enter  the  Temple,  and  he  gave  strict  orders 
that  Athaliah  should  be  carried  without  its  precincts 
before  she  was  put  to  death.  In  the  same  spirit  he  in- 
augurated the  new  reign  by  a solemn  covenant  between 
himself  as  high-priest,  and  the  people  and  the  king,  to 
renounce  the  Baal-worship  which  had  been  introduced 
by  the  house  of  Ahab,  and  to  serve  Jehovah.  This  was 
followed  up  by  the  immediate  destruction  of  the  altar 
and  temple  of  Baal,  and  the  death  of  Mattan,  his  priest. 
He  then  gave  orders  for  the  due  celebratiou  of  the  Tem- 
ple service,  and,  at  the  same  time,  for  the  perfect  re- 
establishment of  the  monarchy,  all  which  seems  to  have 
been  effected  with  great  vigor  and  success,  and  without 
any  cruelty  or  violence.  The  young  king  himself,  un- 
der this  wise  and  virtuous  counsellor,  ruled  his  kingdom 
well  and  prosperously,  and  was  forward  in  works  of  piety 
during  the  lifetime  of  Jehoiada.  The  reparation  of  the 
Temple,  in  the  23d  year  of  his  reign,  of  which  a full  and 
interesting  account  is  given  in  2 Kings  xii  and  2 Chron. 
xxiv,  was  one  of  the  most  important  works  at  this  pe- 
riod. At  length,  however,  Jehoiada  died,  and  for  his 
signal  services  to  his  God,  his  king,  anil  his  country, 
which  have  earned  him  a place  amongst  the  very  fore- 
most well-doers  in  Israel,  he  had  the  unique  honor  of 
burial  amongst  the  kings  of  Judah  in  the  city  of  David. 
— Smith.  His  decease,  though  at  an  advanced  age,  yet 
occurred  too  soon  for  the  welfare  of  the  nation  and  of 
Jehoash,  who  thereupon  immediately  fell  into  idolatry, 
and  was  even  guilty  of  the  most  cruel  ingratitude  to- 
wards the  family  of  Jehoiada.  See  Jehoash,  1.  His 
age  at  his  death  is  stated  (2  Chron.  xxiv,  15)  to  have 
been  130  years,  which  llervey  ( Genealogy  of  our  Lord, 
p.  304)  proposes  to  change  to  103,  in  order  to  lessen  the 
presumed  disparity  between  Jehoiada’s  age  and  that  of 
his  wife,  as  well  as  on  the  ground  that  a man  of  00  could 
hardly  have  exhibited  such  energy  as  he  displayed  in 
displacing  Athaliah ; but  the  change  is  wholly  arbitrary 
and  unnecessary.  Josephus,  in  his  history  (.4  m/.  ix,  7, 
1,  where  he  Grascizes  the  name,  'I todaog),  follows  the 
Bible  account;  but  in  his  list  of  the  high-priests  (A«/. 
x,  8,  6),  the  corresponding  name  seems  to  be  A xioramus 
(*A£twpo/tor,  perhaps  by  corruption  for  “ Joram”).  In 
the  Jewish  chronicle  ( Seder  Olaui),  however,  it  correct- 
ly appears  as  Jehoiadak,  and  with  a date  tolerably  an- 
swering to  the  scriptural  requirements.  In  both  au- 
thorities, many  of  the  adjoining  names  are  additional  to 
IV.— E E E 


those  mentioned  in  the  O.  T.  See  IIigh-priest.  It  is 
probably  this  Jehoiada  who  is  alluded  to  in  Jor.  xxix, 
2G  as  a pre-eminent  incumbent  of  the  office  (see  liosen- 
mllller  and  llitzig,  ad  loc.),  and  he  is  doubtless  the  same 
with  the  Berechiaii  (Bapa^i'ac)  of  Matt,  xxiii,  25. 
See  Zedekiah. 

3.  (Nch.  iii,  G).  See  Joiada. 

Jelioi'akim  (lleb.  Yehuyakim',  C^iPP,  Jeho - 
vah-established ; Sept.  Twmci'/t,  oftener  To muti/i,  Jose- 
phus Twr/Kf/iof  ; compare  Joiakim,  Jokiji),  the  second 
son  of  Josiah  by  Zcbudah,  daughter  of  Pedaiali  of  Ru- 
mah  (probably  the  Dumah  of  josh,  xv,  52);  born  B.C. 
(134,  and  eighteenth  king  of  the  separate  throne  of  Ju- 
dah for  a period  of  eleven  years,  B.C.  G09-598.  He  is 
mentioned  in  2 Kings  xxiii,  34,  35,  3G ; xxiv,  1,  5,  G, 
19;  1 Chron.  iii,  15,  1G;  2 Chron.  xxxvi,  4,  5,  8;  Jer.  i, 
3;  xxii,  18,  24;  xxiv,  1;  xxv,  1;  xxvi,  1,  21,  22,  23; 
xxvii,  1,  20 ; xxviii,  4 ; xxxv,  1 ; xxxvi,  1,  9, 28,  29,  30, 
32;  xxxvii,  1 ; xlv,  1;  xlvi,2;  Iii,  2;  Dan.  i,  1,2.  His 
original  name  was  Eliakim  (q.  v.),  but  the  equivalent 
name  of  Jehoiakim  was  given  him  bv  the  Egyptian 
king  who  set  him  on  his  father’s  throne  (2  Kings  xxiii, 
34).  This  change  is  significant  of  his  dependence  and 
loss  of  liberty,  as  heathen  kings  were  accustomed  to 
give  new  names  to  those  who  entered  their  service 
(Gen.  xli,  45;  Ezra  v,  14;  Dan.  i,  7),  usually  after  their 
gods.  In  this  case,  as  the  new  name  is  lsraelitish,  it  is 
probable  that  Pharaoh-necho  gave  it  at  the  request  of 
Eliakim  himself,  whom  llcngstenbcrg  supposes  to  have 
been  influenced  by  a desire  to  place  his  name  in  closer 
connection  with  the  promise  (2  Sam.  vii,  12),  where  not 
AY, but  Jehovah  is  the  promiser;  and  to  have  done  this 
out  of  opposition  to  the  sentence  of  the  prophets  re- 
specting the  impending  fall  of  the  house  of  David  ( Chris - 
tol.  ii,  401,  Eng.  trails.).  There  exists  the  most  striking 
contrast  between  his  beautiful  name  and  his  miserable 
fate  (Jer.  xxii,  19).  (See  Eckhird,  Yom  Esels-Begrab- 
niss,  Lpz.  17 1G.)  See  Name. 

Jehoiakim’s  younger  brother  Jehoahaz,  or  Shallum, 
as  he  is  called  Jer.  xxii,  1 1,  had  been  in  the  first  instance 
made  king  by  the  people  of  the  land  on  the  death  of  his 
father  Josiah,  probably  with  the  intention  of  following 
up  Josiah’s  policy,  which  was  to  side  with  Nebuchad- 
nezzar against  Egypt,  being,  as  Prideaux  thinks,  bound 
by  oath  to  the  kings  of  Babylon  (i,  50).  See  Jeiio- 
aiiaz.  Pharaoh-necho,  therefore,  having  borne  down 
all  resistance  with  his  victorious  army,  immediately  de- 
posed Jehoahaz,  and  had  him  brought  in  chains  to  Rib- 
lah,  where,  it  seems,  he  was  on  his  way  to  Carchemish 
(2  Kings  xxiii,  33,  34;  Jer.  xxii,  10-12).  See  Nkciio. 
He  then  set  Eliakim,  his  elder  brother,  upon  the  throne 
— changed  his  name  to  Jehoiakim  (see  above) — and, 
having  charged  him  with  the  task  of  collecting  a trib- 
ute of  100  talents  of  silver  and  one  talent  of  gold  = 
nearly  $200,000,  in  which  he  mulcted  the  land  for  the 
part  Josiah  had  taken  in  the  war  with  Babylon,  he 
eventually  returned  to  Egypt,  taking  Jehoahaz  with 
him,  who  died  there  in  captivity  (2  Kings  xxiii,  34; 
Jer.  xxii,  10-12;  Ezek.  xix,  4).  Pharaoh-necho  also 
himself  returned  no  more  to  Jerusalem;  for,  after  his 
great  defeat  at  Carchemish  in  the  fourth  year  of  Jehoi- 
akim, he  lost  all  his  Syrian  possessions  (2  Kings  xxiv, 
7 ; Jer.  xlvi,  2),  and  his  successor  Psammis  (llerod.  ii. 
clxi)  made  no  attempt,  to  recover  them.  Egypt,  there- 
fore, played  no  part  in  Jewish  politics  during  the  seven 
or  eight  years  of  Jehoiakim’s  reign.  After  the  battle 
of  Carchemish  Nebuchadnezzar  came  into  Palestine  as 
one  of  the  Egyptian  tributary  kingdoms,  the  capture  of 
which  was  the  natural  fruit  of  his  victory  over  Necho. 
lie  found  Jehoiakim  quite  powerless.  After  a short 
siege  he  entered  Jerusalem,  took  the  king  prisoner, 
bound  him  in  fetters  to  carry  him  to  Babylon  (2  Chron. 
xxxvi,  G,  7),  and  took  also  some  of  the  precious  vessels 
of  the  Temple  and  carried  them  to  the  land  of  Shinar, 
to  the  temple  of  Bel  his  god.  It  was  at  this  time,  in 
the  fourth,  or,  as  Daniel  reckons,  in  the  third  year  of 


JEIIOIAKIM 


JEHOIAKIM  802 


his  reign  £see  Nebuchadnezzar]*  that  Daniel  and 
Hananiah,  Mishael  and  Azariah,  were  taken  captives 
to  Babylon  (Dan.  i,  1,2);  but  Nebuchadnezzar  seems  to 
have  changed  his  purpose  as  regarded  Jehoiakim,  and 
to  have  accepted  his  submission,  and  reinstated  him  on 
the  throne,  perhaps  in  remembrance  of  the  fidelity  of 
his  father  Josiali  (q.  v.).  The  year  following  the  Egyp- 
tians were  defeated  upon  the  Euphrates  (Jer.  xlvi,  2), 
and  Jehoiakim,  when  he  saw  the  remains  of  the  defeated 
army  pass  by  his  territory,  could  not  but  perceive  how 
vain  had  been  that  reliance  upon  Egypt  against  which 
he  had  been  constantly  cautioned  by  Jeremiah  (Jer. 
xxxi,  1 ; xlv,  1).  In  the  same  year  the  prophet  caused 
a collection  of  his  prophecies  to  be  written  out  by  his 
faithful  Baruch,  and  to  be  read  publicly  by  him  in  the 
court  of  the  Temple.  This  coming  to  the  knowledge 
of  the  king,  he  sent  for  it,  and  had  it  read  before  him. 
But  he  heard  not  much  of  the  bitter  denunciations  with 
which  it  was  charged  before  he  took  the  roll  from  the 
reader,  and,  after  cutting  it  in  pieces,  threw  it  into  the 
brazier  which,  it  being  winter,  was  burning  before  him 
in  the  hall.  The  counsel  of  God  against  him,  however, 
stood  sure;  a fresh  roll  was  written,  with  the  addition 
of  a further  and  most  awful  denunciation  against  the 
king,  occasioned  by  this  foolish  and  sacrilegious  act. 
“ He  shall  have  none  to  sit  upon  the  throne  of  David : 
and  his  dead  body  shall  be  cast  out  in  the  day  to  the 
heat  and  in  the  night  to  the  frost”  (Jer.  xxxvi).  All 
this,  however,  appears  to  have  made  little  impression 
upon  Jehoiakim,  who  still  walked  in  his  old  paths.  See 
Jeremiah. 

After  three  years  of  subjection,  Jehoiakim,  deluded 
by  the  Egyptian  party  in  his  court  (compare  Josephus, 
Ant.  x,  G,  2),  ventured  to  withhold  his  tribute,  and 
thereby  to  throw  off  the  Chaldrean  yoke  (2  Kings  xxiv, 
1).  This  step,  taken  contrary  to  the  earnest  remon- 
strances of  Jeremiah,  and  in  violation  of  his  oath  of  al- 
legiance, was  the  ruin  of  Jehoiakim.  What  moved  or 
encouraged  Jehoiakim  to  this  rebellion  it  is  difficult  to 
say,  unless  it  were  the  restless  turbulence  of  his  own 
bad  disposition  and  the  dislike  of  paying  the  tribute  to 
the  king  of  Babylon,  which  he  would  have  rather  lav- 
ished upon  his  own  luxury  and  pride  (Jer.  xxii,  13-17), 
for  there  was  really  nothing  in  the  attitude  of  Egypt  at 
this  time  to  account  for  such  a step.  It  seems  more 
probable  that,  seeing  Egypt  entirely  severed  from  the 
affairs  of  Syria  since  the  battle  of  Carchemish,  and  the 
king  of  Babylon  wholly  occupied  with  distant  wars,  he 
hoped  to  make  himself  independent.  Though  Nebu- 
chadnezzar was  not  able  at  that  time  to  come  in  person 
to  chastise  his  rebellious  vassal,  he  sent  against  him  nu- 
merous bands  of  Chakkeans,  with  Syrians,  Moabites, 
and  Ammonites,  who  were  all  now  subject  to  Babylon 
(2  Kings  xxiv,  7),  and  who  cruelly  harassed  the  whole 
country,  being  for  the  most  part  actuated  by  a fierce 
hatred  against  the  Jewish  name  and  nation.  It  was 
perhaps  at  this  time  that  the  great  drought  occurred 
described  in  Jer.  xiv  (compare  Jer.  xv,  4 with  2 Kings 
xxiv,  2,  3).  The  closing  years  of  this  reign  must  have 
been  a time  of  extreme  misery.  The  Ammonites  ap- 
pear to  have  overrun  the  land  of  Gad  (Jer.  xlix,  1),  and 
the  other  neighboring  nations  to  have  taken  advantage 
of  the  helplessness  of  Israel  to  ravage  their  land  to  the 
utmost  (Ezek.  xxv).  There  was  no  rest  or  safety  out 
of  the  walled  cities.  We  are  not  acquainted  with  the 
details  of  the  close  of  the  reign.  Probably,  as  the  time 
approached  for  Nebuchadnezzar  himself  to  come  against 
Judaea,  the  desultory  attacks  and  invasions  of  his  troops 
became  more  concentrated.  Either  in  an  engagement 
with  some  of  these  forces,  or  else  by  tin;  hand  of  his  own 
oppressed  subjects,  who  thought  to  conciliate  the  Baby- 
lonians by  the  murder  of  their  king,  Jehoiakim  seems 
to  have  come  to  a violent  end  in  the  eleventh  year  of 
his  reign.  II  is  body,  as  predicted,  appears  to  have  been 
cast  out  ignoniiniouslv  on  the  ground;  perhaps  thrown 
over  the  walls  to  convince  the  enemy  that  he  was 
dead;  and  then,  alter  being  left  exposed  for  some  time, 


to  have  been  dragged  away  and  buried  “ with  the  burial 
of  an  ass,”  without  pomp  or  lamentation,  “beyond  the 
gates  of  Jerusalem”  (Jer.  xxii,  18, 19;  xxxvi,  30;  sec  1 
Chron.  iii,  15 ; 2 Kings  xxiii,  34-37 ; xxiv,  1-7  ; 2 Chron. 
xxxvi,  4-8).  Yet  it  was  not  the  object  of  Nebuchad- 
nezzar to  destroy  altogether  a power  which,  as  tributary 
to  him,  formed  a serviceable  outpost  towards  Egypt,' 
which  seems  to  have  been  the  great  final  object  of  all 
his  designs  in  this  quarter.  He  therefore  still  main- 
tained the  throne  of  Judah,  and  placed  oil  it  Jehoiachin, 
the  son  of  the  late  king.  Nor  does  he  appear  to  have 
removed  any  considerable  number  of  the  inhabitants 
until  provoked  by  the  speedy  revolt  of  this  last  ap- 
pointee. See  Jehoiaciiix. 

The  expression  in  Jer.  xxxvi,  30,  “ He  shall  have 
none  to  sit  upon  the  throne  of  David,”  is  not  to  be  taken 
strictly;  and  yet,  as  the  reign  of  Jehoiachin  was  for 
only  thirteen  weeks,  Jehoiakim  may  be  said  to  have 
been  comparatively  without  a successor,  since  his  son 
scarcely  sat  down  upon  his  throne  before  he  was  de- 
posed. The  same  explanation  applies  to  2 Kings  xxiii, 
34,  where  Eliakim  or  Jehoiakim  is  said  to  have  suc- 
ceeded his  father  Josi ah,  whereas  the  reign  of  Jehoahaz 
intervened.  This  was  also  so  short,  however,  as  not  to 
be  reckoned  in  the  succession.  In  Matt,  i,  11,  in  the  re- 
ceived text,  the  name  of  Jehoiakim  (’ Icjcucti/j , “ Jakim”) 
is  omitted,  making  Jehoiachin  appear  as  the  son  of  Jo- 
siali ; but  in  some  good  MSS.  it  is  supplied,  as  in  the 
margin  (see  Strong’s  Greek  Harmony  of  the  Gospels,  note 
on  § 9).  See  Genealogy. 

Josephus’s  history  of  Jehoiakim’s  reign  is  consistent 
neither  with  Scripture  nor  with  itself.  His  account  of 
Jehoiakim’s  death  and  Jehoiachin's  succession  appears 
to  be  only  his  own  inference  from  the  Scripture  narra- 
tive. According  to  Josephus  (Ant.  x,  6),  Nebuchad- 
nezzar came  against  Judaea  in  the  8th  year  of  Jehoia- 
kim’s reign,  and  compelled  him  to  pay  tribute,  which  he 
did  for  three  years,  and  then  revolted,  in  the  11th  year, 
on  hearing  that  the  king  of  Babylon  had  gone  to  invade 
Egypt.  Such  a campaign  at  this  time  is  extremely 
improbable,  as  Nebuchadnezzar  was  fully  occupied  else- 
where; it  is  possible,  however,  that  such  a rumor  may 
have  been  set  afloat  by  interested  parties.  Josephus 
then  inserts  the  account  of  Jehoiakim’s  burning  Jeremi- 
ah’s prophecy  in  his  fifth  year,  and  concludes  by  saying 
that  a little  time  afterwards  the  king  of  Babylon  made 
an  expedition  against  Jehoiakim,  who  admitted  Nebu- 
chadnezzar into  the  city  upon  certain  conditions,  which 
Nebuchadnezzar  immediately  broke;  that  he  slew  Je- 
hoiakim and  the  flower  of  the  citizens,  and  sent  3000 
captives  to  Babylon,  and  set  up  Jehoiachin  for  king,  but 
almost  immediately  afterwards  was  seized  with  fear  lest 
the  vonng  king  should  avenge  his  father’s  death,  and  so 
sent  back  his  army  to  besiege  Jerusalem;  that  Jehoia- 
chin, being  a man  of  just  and  gentle  disposition,  did  not 
like  to  expose  the  city  to  danger  on  his  own  acconfit, 
and  therefore  surrendered  himself,  his  mother,  and  kin- 
dred to  the  king  of  Babylon’s  officers  on  condition  of 
the  city  suffering  no  harm,  but  that  Nebuchadnezzar,  in 
direct  violation  of  the  conditions,  took  10,832  prisoners, 
and  made  Zedekiali  king  in  the  room  of  Jehoiachin, 
whom  he  kept  in  custody.  See  Judaii,  kingdom  of. 

All  the  accounts  we  have  of  Jehoiakim  concur  in  as- 
cribing to  him  a vicious  and  irreligious  character.  The 
writer  of  2 Kings  xxiii,  37  tells  us  that  “he  did  that 
which  was  evil  in  the  sight  of  Jehovah,”  a statement 
which  is  repeated  in  eh.  xxiv,  9,  and  2 Chron.  xxxvi,  5. 
'l’he  latter  writer  uses  the  yet  stronger  expression  “ the 
acts  of  Jehoiakim,  and  the  abominations  which  he  did” 
(ver.  8).  But  it  is  in  the  writings  of  Jeremiah  that  we 
have  the  fullest  portraiture  of  him.  If,  as  is  probable, 
the  19tli  chapter  of  Jeremiah  belongs  to  this  reign,  we 
have  a detail  of  the  abominations  of  idolatry  practiced 
at  Jerusalem  under  the  king’s  sanction,  with  which  Eze- 
kiel’s vision  of  what  was  going  on  six  years  later,  within 
the  very  precincts  of  the  Temple,  exactly  agrees : incense 
offered  up  to  “ abominable  beasts,”  “ women  weeping  for 


JEHOIARIB 


803 


JEHONADAB 


Thammuz,”  and  men  in  the  inner  court  of  the  Temple,  I 
“with  their  backs  towards  the  temple  of  the  Lord,” 
worshipping  “ the  sun  towards  the  east”  (Ezek.  viii). 
The  vindictive  pursuit  and  murder  of  Urijah,  the  son  of 
Shemaiah,  and  the  indignities  offered  to  his  corpse  by 
the  king’s  command,  in  revenge  for  his  faithful  prophe- 
sying of  evil  against  Jerusalem  and  Judah,  are  samples 
of  his  irreligion  and  tyranny  combined.  Jeremiah  but 
narrowly  escaped  the  same  fate  (Jer.  xxvi,  20-24).  The 
curious  notice  of  him  in  1 Esd.  i,  38 — that  he  put  his 
nobles  in  chains,  and  caught  Zaraees,  his  brother,  in 
Egypt,  and  brought  him  up  thence  to  Jerusalem — also 
points  to  his  cruelty.  His  daring  impiety  in  cutting  up 
and  burning  the  roll  containing  Jeremiah’s  prophecy,  at 
the  verjr  moment  when  the  national  fast  was  being  cel- 
ebrated, has  been  noticed  above  (see  also  Stanley,  Jeicish 
Church,  ii,  597  sq.).  His  oppression,  injustice,  covetous- 
ness, luxury,  and  tyranny  are  most  severely  rebuked 
(Jer.  xxii,  13-17) ; and  it  has  frequently  been  observed, 
as  indicating  his  thorough  selfishness  and  indifference 
to  the  sufferings  of  his  people,  that,  at  a time  when  the 
land  was  so  impoverished  by  the  heavy  tributes  laid 
upon  it  by  Egypt  and  Babylon  in  turn,  lie  should  have 
squandered  large  sums  in  building  luxurious  palaces  for 
himself  (Jer.  xxii,  14, 15). — Smith  ; Kitto.  See  Image- 
ry, Chambers  of. 

Jehoi'arib  (Hebrew  Yelwyarib' , whose 

cause  Jehovah  defends ; Sept,  ’hoapttfi  or  'Jopd/J  v.  r. 
To tapifi;  1 Chron.  ix,  10;  xxiv,  7 only;  elsewhere,  both 
in  Ileb.  and  A.Y.,  the  name  is  abbreviated  to  Joiakib), 
a distinguished  priest  at  Jerusalem  (1  Chron.  ix,  10),  head 
of  the  first  of  the  twenty-four  sacerdotal  “courses”  (1 
Chron.  xxiv,  7).  B.C.  1014.  Of  these  courses,  only  four 
are  mentioned  as  having  returned  from  Babylon — those 
of  Jedaiah,  Itnmer,  Baslinr,  and  llarim  (Ezra  ii,  3G-39; 
Nell,  vii,  39-42) ; and  Jewish  tradition  says  that  each  of 
these  was  divided  into  six,  so  as  to  preserve  the  original 
number  with  the  original  names  (Talm.  Ilieros.  Taanith, 
ch.  iv,  p.  G8,  col.  1 in  ed.  Bomberg).  This  might  account 
for  our  finding,  at  a later  period,  Mattathias  described  as 
of  the  course  of  Joarib  (1  Macc.  ii,  1),  even  though  this 
course  did  not  return  from  Babylon  Jl’rideaux,  Connec- 
tion, i,  13G,  8th  ed.).  "We  find,  however,  that  some  of 
the  descendants  of  Jehoiarib  did  return  from  Babylon  (1 
Chron.  ix,  10 ; Neh.  xi,  10 ; see  Jedaiah)  ; we  find,  also, 
that  in  subsequent  lists  other  of  the  priestly  courses  are 
mentioned  as  returning,  and  in  one  of  these  that  of  Je- 
hoiarib is  expressly  mentioned  (Neh.  x,  2-8;  xii,  1-7), 
and  mention  is  made  of  Mattenai  as  chief  of  the  house 
of  Joiarib  in  the  days  of  Jeshua  (xii,  19).  The  proba- 
bility, therefore,  is,  that  the  course  of  Jehoiarib  did  go 
up,  but  at  a later  date,  perhaps,  than  those  four  men- 
tioned in  Ezra  ii,  3G-39,  and  Neh.  vii,  39-42.  To  the 
course  of  Joiarib  Josephus  tells  us  he  belonged  (.inf.  xi, 
G,  l;  Life,  § 1). — Kitto.  See  Priest. 

Jehon'adab  (Heb.  Yehonadab’ , filin')',  to  whom 
Jehovah  is  liberal,  2 Sam.  xiii,  5;  2 Kings  x,  15,  23; 
Jer.  xxxv,  8,  14,  16,  18;  .Sept.  'luivaSdfi,  Autli.  Version 
“ Jonadab,”  except  in  2 Kings  x,  15,  23),  also  in  the 
contracted  form  Jonadab  (213'1,  Yonadab ',  2 Sam. 
xiii,  3,  32,  35;  Jer.  xxxv,  6,  19,  19;  Sept,  ’liovacdfi), 
the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  A son  of  Shimeah  and  nephew  of  David,  a very 
crafty  person  (“IX "2  22H ; the  word  is  that  usually 
translated  “wise,”  as  in  the  case  of  Solomon,  2 Sam. 
xiii,  3),  i.  e.  apparently  one  of  those  characters  who,  in 
the.  midst  of  great  or  royal  families,  pride  themselves, 
and  are  renowned,  for  being  acquainted  with  the  secrets 
of  the  whole  circle  in  which  they  move.  His  age  nat- 
urally made  him  the  friend  of  his  cousin  Amnon,  heir  to 
the  throne  (2  Sam.  xiii,  3).  He  perceived  from  the 
prince’s  altered  appearance  that  there  was  some  un- 
known grief— “Why  art  thou,  the  king’s  son,  so  lean?” 
— and,  when  he  had  wormed  it  out,  he  gave  him  the 
fatal  advice  for  ensnaring  his  sister  Tamar  (ver.  5,  G). 


I B.C.  cir.  1033.  See  Amnon.  Again,  when,  in  a later 
stage  of  the  same  tragedy,  Amnon  was  murdered  by 
Absalom,  and  the  exaggerated  report  reached  David 
that  all  the  princes  were  slaughtered,  Jonadab  was  al- 
ready aware  of  the  real  state  of  the  case.  lie  was  with 
the  king,  and  was  able  at  once  to  reassure  him  (2  Sam. 
xiii,  32,  33). — Smith.  See  Absalom. 

2.  A son  or  descendant  of  Rechab,  the  progenitor  of 
a peculiar  tribe,  who  held  themselves  bound  by  a vow 
to  abstain  from  wine,  and  never  to  relinquish  the  no- 
madic life  (Jer.  xxxv,  G-19).  See  Rechab.  It  appears 
from  1 Chron.  ii,  55  that  his  father  or  ancestor  Rechab 
(“the  rider”)  belonged  to  a branch  of  the  Kenites,  the 
Arabian  tribe  which  entered  Palestine  with  the  Israel- 
ites. One  settlement  of  them  was  to  be  found  in  the 
extreme  north,  under  the  chieftainship  of  Heber  (Judg. 
iv,  11),  retaining  their  Bedouin  customs  under  the  oak 
which  derived  its  name  from  their  nomadic  habits. 
The  main  settlement  was  in  the  south.  Of  these,  one 
branch  had  nestled  in  the  cliffs  of  Engedi  (Judg.  i,  1G; 
Numb,  xxiv,  21).  Another  had  returned  to  the  frontier 
of  their  native  wilderness  on  the  south  of  Judah  (Judg. 

i,  16).  A third  was  established,  under  a fourfold  divi- 
sion, at  or  near  the  town  of  Jabez,  in  Judah  (1  Chron. 

ii,  55).  See  Kenite.  To  which  of  these  branches  Re- 
chab and  his  son  Jehonadab  belonged  is  uncertain ; he 
was  evidently,  however,  the  chieftain  of  an  important 
family,  if  not  the  generally  acknowledged  head  of  the 
entire  clan.  The  Bedouin  habits,  which  were  kept  up 
by  the  various  branches  of  the  Kenite  tribe  (see  Judg. 
i,  1G;  iv,  11),  were  inculcated  by  Jehonadab  with  the 
utmost  minuteness  on  his  descendants  or  retainers;  the 
more  so,  perhaps,  from  their  being  brought  into  closer 
connection  with  the  inhabitants  of  the  settled  districts. 
The  vow  or  rule  which  lie  prescribed  to  them  is  pre- 
served to  us:  “Ye  shall  drink  no  wine,  neither  ye  nor 
your  sons  forever.  Neither  shall  ye  build  houses,  nor 
sow  seed,  nor  plant  vineyard,  nor  have  any:  but  all 
your  days  ye  shall  dwell  in  tents;  that  ye  may  live 
many  days  in  the  land  where  ye  be  strangers”  (Jer. 
xxxv,  G,  7).  This  life,  partly  monastic,  partly  Bedouin, 
was  observed  with  the  tenacity  with  which,  from  gen- 
eration to  generation,  such  customs  are  continued  in 
Arab  tribes;  and  when,  many  years  after  the  death  of 
Jehonadab,  the  Rechabites  (as  they  were  called  from  his 
father)  were  forced  to  take  refuge  from  the  Chaldtean 
invasion  within  the  walls  of  Jerusalem,  nothing  would 
induce  them  to  transgress  the  rule  of  their  ancestor, 
and,  in  consequence,  a blessing  was  pronounced  upon  him 
and  them  by  the  prophet  Jeremiah  (xxxv,  19) : “Jon- 
adab, the  son  of  Rechab,  shall  not  want  a man  to  stand 
before  me  forever.”  See  Reciiabite. 

Bearing  in  mind  this  general  character  of  Jehonadab 
as  an  Arab  chief,  and  the  founder  of  a half-religions 
sect,  perhaps  in  connection  with  the  austere  Elijah,  and 
the  Nazarites  mentioned  in  Amos  ii,  11  (see  Ewald,  A/~ 
terthumer,  p.  92,  93),  we  are  the  better  able  to  under- 
stand the  single  occasion  on  which  he  appears  before  ns 
in  the  historical  narrative  (2  Kings  x,  15  sq.).  B.C. 
883.  Jehu  was  advancing,  after  the  slaughter  of  Beth- 
eked,  on  the  city  of  Samaria,  when  he  suddenly  met  the 
austere  Bedouin  coming  towards  him  (2  Kings  x,  15). 
It  seems  that  they  were  already  known  to  each  other 
(Josephus,  Ant.  ix,  G,  0).  The  king  was  in  his  chariot ; 
the  Arab  was  on  foot.  It  is  not  altogether  certain  which 
was  the  first  to  speak.  The  Hebrew  text— followed  by 
the  A.Y. — implies  that  the  king  blessed  (A. Vers,  “sa- 
luted”) Jehonadab.  The  Sept,  and  Josephus  (Ant.  ix, 
G,  6)  imply  that  Jehonadab  blessed  the  king.  Eacli 
would  have  its  peculiar  appropriateness.  The  king 
then  proposed  their  close  union.  “ Is  thy  heart  right, 
as  my  heart  is  with  thy  heart  ?”  The  answer  of  Jehon- 
1 adab  is  slightly  varied.  In  the  Hebrew  text  he  vehe- 
: mently  replies,  “It  is,  it  is:  give  me  thine  hand.”  In 
! the  Sept,  and  in  the  A.  V.,  he  replies  simply,  “It  is:” 
and  Jehu  then  rejoins,  “If  it  is,  give  me  thine  hand.” 
I The  hand,  whether  of  Jehonadab  or  Jehu,  was  offered 


804 


JEHORAM 


JEIIOXATIIAX 

an d grasped.  The  king  lifted  him  up  to  the  edge  of 
the  chariot,  apparently  that  he  might  whisper  his  se- 
cret into  his  ear,  and  said, i£  Come  with  me,  and  see  my 
zeal  for  Jehovah.”  It  was  the  first  indication  of  Jehu’s 
design  upon  the  worship  of  Baal,  for  which  he  perceived 
that  the  stern  zealot  would  he  a fit  coadjutor.  Having 
intrusted  him  with  the  secret,  he  (Sept.)  or  his  attend- 
ants (Hcb.  andA.V.)  caused  Jehonadab  to  proceed  with 
him  to  Samaria  in  the  royal  chariot.  Jehonadab  was 
evidently  held  in  great  respect  among  the  Israelites 
generally;  and  Jehu  was  alive  to  the  importance  of  ob- 
taining the  countenance  and  sanction  of  such  a man  to 
his  proceedings;  and  as  it  is  expressly  said  that  Jehon- 
adab went  out  to  meet  Jehu,  it  seems  probable  that  the 
people  of  Samaria,  alarmed  at  the  menacing  letter  which 
they  had  received  from  Jehu,  had  induced  Jehonadab  to 
go  to  meet  and  appease  him  on  the  road.  His  vener- 
ated character,  his  rank  as  the  head  of  a tribe,  and  his 
neutral  position,  well  qualified  him  for  this  mission ; and 
it  was  quite  as  much  the  interest  of  Jehonadab  to  concil- 
iate the  new  dynasty,  in  whose  founder  he  beheld  the 
minister  of  the  divine  decrees,  as  it  was  that  of  Jehu  to 
obtain  his  concurrence  and  support  in  proceedings  which 
he  could  not  but  know  were  likely  to  render  him  odious 
to  the  people.  So  completely  had  the  worship  of  Baal 
become  the  national  religion,  that  even  Jehonadab  was 
able  to  conceal  his  purpose  under  the  mask  of  conformi- 
ty. No  doubt  he  acted  in  concert  with  Jehu  throughout; 
but  the  only  occasion  on  which  he  is  expressly  men- 
tioned is  when  (probably  from  his  previous  knowledge 
of  the  secret  worshippers  of  Jehovah)  he  went  with 
Jehu  through  the  temple  of  Baal  to  turn  out  any  that 
there  might  happen  to  be  in  the  mass  of  pagan  wor- 
shippers (2  Kings  x,  23). — Smith;  Kitto.  See  Jehu. 

Jehon'athan  (Heb.  Yekonathan',  ’jPi’i-P,  Jehovah- 
given;  Sept.  ’IwvaSav),  the  full  form  of  the  name  of  four 
men. 

1.  The  oldest  son  of  king  Saul  (1  Sara,  xiv,  6,  8,  21 ; 
xviii,  1, 3, 4 ; xix,  2, 4, 6,  7 ; xx  throughout,  and  all  later 
passages  except  1 Chron.  x,  2,  in  all  which  the  A.V.  has 
“Jonathan”  [q.  v.],  as  the  Hebrew  likewise  elsewhere 
has). 

2.  Son  of  Uzziah,  and  superintendent  of  certain  of 
king  David’s  storehouses  (r'lUX,  the  word  rendered 
“treasures”  earlier  in  the  verse,  and  in  27,  28  “cellars”) 
(1  Chron.  xxvii,25).  B.C.  1014. 

3.  One  of  the  Levitcs  who  were  sent  by  Jehoshaphat 
through  the  cities  of  Judah,  with  a book  of  the  Law,  to 
teach  the  people  (2  Chron.  xvii,  8).  B.C.  910. 

4.  A priest  (Neh.  xii,  18),  and  the  representative  of 
the  family  of  Shemaiah  (verse  6)  when  Joiakim  was 
high-priest — that  is,  in  the  next  generation  after  the  re- 
turn from  Babylon  under  Zerubbabel  and  Jesluia.  B.C.4 
post  536. 

Jeho'rara  (Ileb.  Yehoram',  JeJiovah-eralt- 

erl,  1 Kings  xxii,  50;  2 Kings  i,  17 ; iii,  1,  6;  viii,  16,  25, 
29;  ix,  15,  17,  21,  22,  23,  24;  xii,  18;  2 Chron.  xvii,  8; 
xxi,  1, 3, 4,  5,  9, 16 ; xxii,  1, 5, 6,  7, 1 1 ; Septuag.  T lopd/j, 
A.  V.“Joram”  in  2 Kings  ix,  15,  17,21,22,23),  also  in 
the  contracted  form  Joram  (3'VT,  Yoram',  2 Sam.  viii, 
10;  2 Kings  viii,  16,  21,  23,  24,  25,  28,  29;  ix,  14,  16,  29; 
xi,  2;  1 Chron,  iii,  11;  xxvi,  25;  2 Chron.  xxii,  5,  7 ; 
Sept.  'I lopdfi,  but  ‘IfSdovpdfi  in  2 Sam.  viii,  10),  the 
name  of  five  men. 

1.  Son  of  Toi,  king  of  Hamath,  sent  by  his  father  to 
congratulate  David  upon  his  victory  over  lladadezer  (2 
Sam.  viii,  10;  lleb.  and  A.  V.  “ Joram”) ; elsewhere  call- 
ed IIadokam  (1  Chron.  xviii,  10). 

2.  A Levite  of  the  family  of  (Jershom,  employed  with 
his  relatives  in  special  sacred  services  connected  with 
the  Temple  treasury  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  25;  Ileb.  and  A.  V. 
“Joram”).  B.C.  1014. 

3.  One  of  the  priests  sent  by  Jehoshaphat  to  instruct 
the  people  in  the  Law  throughout  the  land  (2  Chron. 
xvii,  8).  B.C.  910. 


4.  (Josephus  Twpa/xoc,  Ant.  ix,  2,  2.)  The  son  of 
Ahab  and  Jezebel,  and  successor  to  his  elder  brother 
Ahaziali,  who  died  childless.  He  was  the  tenth  king 
on  the  separate  throne  of  Israel,  and  reigned  12  years, 
B.C.  894-883  (2  Kings  i,  17;  iii,  1).  The  date  of  his 
accession,  in  the  second  year  of  the  reign  of  Jehoram  of 
Judah  (2  Kings  i,  17),  must  be  computed  from  a vice- 
royship  of  the  latter  during  his  father  Jehosliaphat’s 
war  at  Kamoth-gilead  (1  Kings  xxii,  2 sq.).  The  reck- 
oning in  2 Kings  ix,  29  is  according  to  Jelioram’s  actual 
reign  ; that  in  2 Kings  viii,  25,  according  to  the  years 
of  liis  reign  as  beginning  proleptically  with  the  Israel- 
itisli  calendar  or  regnal  point,  i.e.  the  autumn,  as  those 
of  Judah  do  in  the  spring.  See  Israel,  kingdom  of. 

The  Moabites  had  been  tributary  to  the  crown  of  Is- 
rael since  the  separation  of  the  two  kingdoms ; but  king 
Mesh  a deemed  the  defeat  and  death  of  Ahab  so  heavy  a 
blow  to  the  power  of  Israel  that  he  might  safely  assert 
his  independence.  He  accordingly  did  so,  by  withhold- 
ing his  tribute  of  “ 100,000  lambs  and  100,000  rams,  with 
the  wool.”  The  short  reign  of  Ahaziah  had  afforded  no 
opportunity  for  any  operations  against  the  revolters, 
but  the  new  king  hastened  to  reduce  them  again  under 
the  yoke  they  had  cast  off.  The  good  king  of  Judah, 
Jehoshaphat,  was  too  easily  induced  to  take  a part  in 
the  war.  He  perhaps  feared  that  the  example  of  Moab, 
if  allowed  to  be  successful,  might  seduce  into  a similar 
course  his  own  tributary,  the  king  of  Edom,  whom  he 
now  summoned  to  join  in  this  expedition.  Accordingly, 
the  three  kings  of  Israel,  Judah,  and  Edom  marched 
through  the  wilderness  of  Edom  to  attack  Mesha.  The 
three  armies  were  in  the  utmost  danger  of  perishing  for 
want  of  water.  The  piety  of  Jehoshaphat  suggested  an 
inquiry  of  some  prophet  of  Jehovah,  and  Elisha,  the  son 
of  Shaphat,  at  that  time,  and  since  the  latter  part  of 
Ahab’s  reign,  Elijah’s  attendant  (2  Kings  iii,  1 1 ; 1 Kings 
xix,  19-21 ),  was  found  with  the  host.  From  him  Jeho- 
ram received  a severe  rebuke,  and  was  bid  to  inquire  of 
the  prophets  of  bis  father  and  mother — the  prophets  of 
Baal.  Nevertheless,  for  Jehoshaphat’s  sake,  Elisha  in- 
quired of  Jehovah,  and  received  the  promise  of  an  abun- 
dant supply  of  water,  and  of  a great  victory  over  the 
Moabites,  a promise  which  was  immediately  fulfilled. 
The  same  water  which,  filling  the  valley,  and  the  trench- 
es dug  by  the  Israelites,  supplied  the  whole  army  and  all 
their  cattle  with  drink,  appeared  to  the  Moabites,  who 
were  advancing,  like  blood  when  the  morning  sun  shone 
upon  it.  Concluding  that  the  allies  had  fallen  out  and 
slain  each  other,  they  marched  incautiously  to  the  at- 
tack, and  were  put  to  the  rout.  The  allies  pursued  them 
with  great  slaughter  into  their  own  land,  which  they  ut- 
terly ravaged  and  destroyed,  with  all  its  cities.  Ivirhar- 
aseth  alone  remained,  and  there  the  king  of  Moab  made 
his  last  stand.  An  attempt  to  break  through  the  be- 
sieging army  having  failed,  he  resorted  to  the  desperate 
expedient  of  offering  up  his  eldest  son,  the  lit  ir  to  his 
throne,  as  a burnt-offering  upon  the  wall  of  the  city,  in 
the  sight  of  the  enemy.  Upon  this,  the  Israelites  re- 
tired and  returned  to  tlieir  own  land  (2  Kings  iii).  B.C. 
cir.  890.  See  Mesha. 

It  was,  perhaps,  in  consequence  of  Elisha’s  rebuke, 
and  of  the  above  remarkable  deliverance  granted  to  the 
allied  armies  according  to  his  word,  that  Jehoram,  on 
his  return  to  Samaria,  put  away  the  image  of  Baal  which 
Ahab,  his  father,  had  made  (2  Kings  iii,  2) ; for  in  2 
Kings  iv  we  have  an  evidence  of  Elisha’s  being  on 
friendly  terms  with  Jehoram  in  the  offer  made  by  him  to 
speak  to  the  king  in  favor  of  the  Shnnammitess.  (He 
is  highly  spoken  of  in  the  Talmud  \Jierachotli,  10]  ; but 
he  did  not  remove  the  golden  calves  introduced  by  Jer- 
oboam.) The  impression  on  the  king’s  mind  was  proba- 
bly strengthened  by  the  subsequent  incident  of  Naaman’s 
cure,  and  the  temporary  cessation  of  the  inroads  of  the 
Syrians,  which  doubtless  resulted  from  it  (2  Kings  v). 
See  Naamax.  Accordingly,  when, a little  later,  war  again 
broke  out  between  Syria  and  Israel,  we  find  Elisha  be- 
friending Jehoram.  The  king  was  made  acquainted  by 


JEHORAM 


805 


JEHOSHAPIIAT 


the  prophet  with  the  secret  counsels  of  the  king  of  Syria, 
and  was  thus  enabled  to  defeat  them  ; and,  on  the  other 
hand,  when  Elisha  had  led  a large  band  of  Syrian  sol- 
diers, whom  God  had  blinded,  into  the  midst  of  Samaria, 
Jehoram  reverentially  asked  him,  “My  father,  shall  I 
smite  them  ?”  and,  at  the  prophet’s  bidding,  not  only  for- 
bore to  kill  them,  but  made  a feast  for  them,  and  then  sent 
them  home  unhurt.  This  procured  another  cessation 
from  the  Syrian  invasions  for  the  Israelites  (2  Kings  vi, 
23).  See  Best-iiadad.  What  happened  after  this  to 
change  the  relations  between  the  king  and  the  prophet 
we  can  only  conjecture.  But,  putting  together  the  gen- 
eral bad  character  given  of  Jehoram  (2  Kings  iii,  2, 3) 
with  the  fact  of  the  prevalence  of  Baal-worship  at  the 
end  of  his  reign  (2  Kings  x,  21-28),  it  seems  probable 
that  when  the  Syrian  inroads  ceased,  and  he  felt  less  de- 
pendent upon  the  aid  of  the  prophet,  he  relapsed  into 
idolatry,  and  was  rebuked  by  Elisha,  and  threatened 
with  a return  of  the  calamities  from  which  he  had  es- 
caped. Refusing  to  repent,  a fresh  invasion  by  the  Syr- 
ians and  a close  siege  of  Samaria  actually  came  to  pass, 
according  probably  to  the  word  of  the  prophet.  Hence, 
when  the  terrible  incident  arose,  in  consequence  of  the 
famine,  of  a woman  boiling  and  eating  her  own  child, 
the  king  immediately  attributed  the  evil  to  Elisha,  the 
son  of  Sliapliat,  and  determined  to  take  away  his  life. 
The  message  which  he  sent  by  the  messenger  whom  he 
commissioned  to  cut  off  the  prophet’s  head,  “ Behold,  this 
evil  is  from  Jehovah,  why  should  I wait  for  Jehovah 
any  longer?”  coupled  with  the  fact  of  his  having  on 
sackcloth  at  the  time  (2  Kings  vi,  30, 33),  also  indicates 
that  many  remonstrances  and  warnings,  similar  to  those 
given  by  Jeremiah  to  the  kings  of  his  day,  had  passed 
between  the  prophet  and  the  weak  and  unstable  son  of 
Ahab.  The  providential  interposition  by  which  both 
Elisha’s  life  was  saved  and  the  city  delivered  is  narrated 
in  2 Kings  vii,  and  Jehoram  appears  to  have  returned 
to  friendly  feelings  towards  Elisha  (2  Kings  viii,  4). 
B.C.  eir.  888-884.  See  Elisiia. 

It  was  very  soon  after  the  above  events  that  Elisha 
went  to  Damascus,  and  predicted  the  revolt  of  Hazael, 
and  his  accession  to  the  throne  of  Syria  in  the  room  of 
Bcn-hadad ; and  it  was  during  Elisha’s  absence,  proba- 
bly, that  the  conversation  between  Jehoram  and  Gehazi, 
and  the  return  of  the  Shunammitess  from  the  land  of 
the  Philistines,  recorded  in  2 Kings  viii,  took  place.  Je- 
horam seems  to  have  thought  the  revolution  in  Syria, 
which  immediately  followed  Elisha’s  prediction,  a good 
opportunity  to  pursue  his  father’s  favorite  project  of  re- 
covering liamoth-gilead  from  the  S}Trians.  He  accord- 
ingly made  an  alliance  with  his  nephew,  Aliaziah,  who 
had  just  succeeded  Jehoram  on  the  throne  of  Judah,  and 
the  two  kings  proceeded  to  strengthen  the  eastern  fron- 
tier against  the  Syrians  hy  fortifying  Ramotli-gilead, 
which  had  fallen  into  Jehoram's  hands,  and  which  his 
father  had  perished  in  the  attempt  to  recover  from  the 
Syrians.  This  strong  fortress  thenceforth  became  the 
head-quarters  of  the  operations  beyond  the  river.  Ha- 
zael was  scarcely  settled  on  the  throne  before  he  took 
arms  and  marched  against  Ramoth,  in  the  environs  of 
which  the  Israelites  sustained  a defeat.  Jehoram  was 
wounded  in  the  battle,  and  obliged  to  return  to  Jezreel 
to  be  healed  of  his  wounds  (2  Kings  viii,  29;  ix.  14, 15), 
leaving  his  army  in  the  charge  of  Jehu,  one  of  his  ablest 
and  most  active  generals,  to  hold  Ramotli-gilead  against 
Hazael.  Jehu,  however,  in  this  interval  was  anointed 
king  of  Israel  by  the  messenger  of  Elisha,  and  immedi- 
ately he  and  the  army  under  his  command  revolted  from 
their  allegiance  to  Jehoram  (2  Kings  ix),  and  Jehu, 
hastily  marching  to  Jezreel,  surprised  Jehoram,  wound- 
ed and  defenceless  as  he  was.  Jehoram,  going  out  to 
meet  him,  fell  pierced  by  an  arrow  from  Jehu’s  bow  on 
the  very  plat  of  ground  which  Ahab  had  wrested  from 
Naboth  the  Jezreelite,  thus  fulfilling  to  the  letter  the 
prophecy  of  Elijah  (1  Kings  xxi,  21-29).  B.C.  883. — 
Smith;  Kitto.  See  J eii f. 

5.  (Josephus  ’ltbpapog,  Ant.  ix,  5,  1.)  The  eldest 


son  and  successor  of  Jehoshaphat,  and  fifth  king  on  the 
separate  throne  of  Judah,  who  began  to  reign  (alone)  at 
the  age  of  thirty-six  years,  and  reigned  three  years,  B.C. 
887-884.  It  is  indeed  said  in  the  general  account  (2 
Citron,  xxi,  5,  20;  2 Kings  viii,  16)  that  he  began  to 
reign  at  the  age  of  thirty-two,  and  that  he  reigned 
eight  years;  but  the  conclusions  dcducible  from  the  fact 
that  his  reign  began  in  the  fifth  year  of  Jehoram,  king 
of  Israel  (2  Kings  viii,  16),  show  that  the  reign  thus 
stated  dates  back  three  years  into  the  reign  of  his  fa- 
ther, who  from  this  is  seen  to  have  associated  his  eldest 
sou  with  him  in  the  later  years  of  his  reign,  as,  indeed, 
is  expressly  stated  in  this  last  cited  passage  (see  Keifs 
Com.  on  2 Kings  i,  17 ; Reime,  Ilarmon.  vitce  Josaphut, 
Jen.  1713,  and  Diss.  de  num.  annor.  rerjni  Josaph.,  ib.). 
This  appears  to  have  been  on  the  occasion  of  Jeliosha- 
phat’s  absence  in  the  conflict  with  confederate  invaders, 
the  Moabites,  Ammonites,  and  Edomites  (2  Chron.  xx) ; 
and  must  be  distinguished  from  a still  earlier  copartner- 
ship (2  Kings  i,  17),  apparently  during  the  allied  attack 
upon  the  Syrians  at  Ramotli-gilead,  in  which  Ahab  lost 
his  life.  See  Jehoshaphat.  Jehoram’s  daughter  Jc- 
hoslieba  was  married  to  the  higli-priest  Jelioiada  (q.  v.). 
He  had  himself  unhappily  been  married  to  Atlialiah, 
the  daughter  of  Ahab  and  Jezebel,  and  her  influence 
seems  to  have  neutralized  all  the  good  lie  might  have 
derived  from  the  example  of  his  father.  One  of  the 
first  acts  of  his  reign  was  to  put  his  six  brothers  to  death 
and  seize  the  valuable  appanages  which  their  father  had 
in  his  lifetime  bestowed  upon  them.  After  this  we  are 
not  surprised  to  find  him  giving  way  to  the  gross  idola- 
tries of  that  new  and  strange  kind— the  Phoenician — 
which  had  been  brought  into  Israel  by  Jezebel,  and  into 
Judah  by  her  daughter  Atlialiah.  For  these  atrocities 
the  Lord  let  forth  his  anger  against  Jehoram  and  his 
kingdom.  The  Edomites  revolted,  and,  according  to 
old  prophecies  (Gen.  xxvii,  40),  established  their  perma- 
nent independence.  It  was  as  much  as  Jehoram  could 
do,  by  a night-attack  with  all  his  forces,  to  extricate 
himself  from  their  army,  which  had  surrounded  him. 
Next  Libnah,  the  city  of  the  priests  (Josh,  xxi,  13),  one 
of  the  strongest  fortified  cities  in  Judah  (2  Kings  xix, 
8),  and  perhaps  one  of  those  “fenced  cities”  (2  C'hron. 
xxi,  3)  which  Jehoshaphat  had  given  to  his  other  sons, 
renounced  allegiance  to  Jehoram  because  lie  had  for- 
saken Jehovah,  the  God  of  his  Dithers.  But  this  seem- 
ed only  to  stimulate  him  to  enforce  the  practice  of  idol- 
atry hy  persecution,  lie  had  early  in  his  reign  received 
a writing  from  Elijah  the  prophet  admonishing  him  of 
the  dreadful  calamities  which  lie  was  bringing  on  him- 
self by  his  wicked  conduct,  but  even  this  failed  to  effect 
a reformation  in  Jehoram.  See  Elijah.  At  length 
the  Philistines  on  one  side,  and  the  Arabians  and  Cush- 
ites on  the  other,  grew  bold  against  a king  forsaken  of 
God,  and  in  repeated  invasions  spoiled  the  land  of  all  its 
substance;  they  even  ravaged  the  royal  palaces,  and 
took  away  the  wives  and  children  of  the  king,  leaving 
him  only  "one  son,  Aliaziah.  Nor  was  this  all : Jehoram 
was  in  liis  last  days  afflicted  with  a frightful  disease  in 
his  bowels,  which,  from  the  terms  employed  in  describ- 
ing it,  appears  to  have  been  malignant  dysentery  in  its 
most  shocking  and  tormenting  form  (see  R.  Mead,  Bihl. 
Krankh.  44 ; but  comp.  Bartholin.  Morb.  Bibl.  c.  12;  G. 
Detliarding,  I)e  morbo  reg.  Joranri.  Rostock,  1731).  See 
Disease.  After  a disgraceful  reign  and  a most  painful 
death,  public  opinion  inflicted  the  posthumous  dishonor 
of  refusing  him  a plaee  in  the  sepulchre  of  the  kings. 
Jehoram  was  by  far  the  most  impious  and  cruel  tyrant 
that  had  as  yet  occupied  the  throne  of  Judah,  though 
he  was  rivalled  or  surpassed  by  some  of  his  successors 
(2  Kings  viii,  16-24 ; 2 Chron.  xxi).  His  name  ap- 
pears, however,  in  the  royal  genealogy  of  our  Saviour 
(’ I ojpdp , “ Joram,”  Matt.i,8).  See  Judah,  kingdom  of. 

Jelioshab'eath  (2  Chron.  xxii,  11).  See  Je- 
iiosiieba. 

Jehosh'apliat  (Heb.  Yehoshaphat',  tsS’riPP,  Je* 


JEHOSIIAPHAT 


806 


JEHOSIIAPHAT 


kovah-judged,  i.  e.  vindicated;  Sept.  ’Iwcra^ar),  some- 
times in  the  contracted  form  Josiiapiiat  Yo- 

shaphat 1 Chron.  xi,  43;  xv,  24;  Twcra^dr,  A.  Vera, 
in  the  latter  passage  “ Jehoshaphat;”  N.  T.  IcovatpctT, 
“Josaphat,”  Matt,  i,  8 ; Josephus  ’iwcrn^arof),  the  name 
of  six  men. 

1.  A Mithnite,  one  of  David’s  famous  body-guard  (1 
Chron.  xi,  43 ; Heb.  and  A.Y.  “ Josaphat”).  llC.  1046. 

2.  One  of  the  priests  appointed  to  blow  the  trumpets 
before  the  ark  on  its  removal  to  Jerusalem  (1  Chron. 
xv,  24;  Heb.  “Josaphat”).  B.C.  eir.  1043. 

3.  Son  of  Ahilud,  and  royal  chronicler  (q.  v.)  under 
David  and  Solomon  (2  Sam.  viii,  16;  xx,  24;  1 Kings 
iv,  3;  1 Chron.  xviii,  15).  B.C.  1014. 

4.  Son  of  l’aruah,  and  Solomon’s  purveyor  (q.  v.)  in 
Issaehar  (1  Kings  iv,  17).  B.C.  cir.  995.  See  Solo- 
mon. 

5.  The  fourth  separate  king  of  Judah  (“Israel”  in  2 
Chron.  xxi,  2,  last  clause,  is  either  a transcriber’s  error 
or  a general  title),  being  son  of  Asa  (by  Azubah,  the 
daughter  of  Shilhi),  whom  he  succeeded  at  the  age  of 
thirty-five,  and  reigned  twenty-five  years,  B.C.  912-887 
(1  Kings  xxii,  41, 42 ; 2 Chron.  xx,  31).  lie  commenced 
his  reign  by  fortifying  his  kingdom  against  Israel  (2 


take  advantage  of  the  occasion,  and  so  worked  upon  the 
weak  points  of  his  character  as  to  prevail  upon  him  to 
take  arms  with  him  against  the  Syrians,  with  whom, 
hitherto,  the  kingdom  of  Judah  never  had  had  any  war 
or  occasion  of  quarrel.  However,  Jehoshaphat  was  not 
so  far  infatuated  as  to  proceed  to  the  war  without  con- 
sulting God,  who,  according  to  the  principles  of  the  the- 
ocratic government,  was  the  final  arbiter  of  war  and 
peace.  The  false  prophets  of  Ahab  poured  forth  ample 
promises  of  success,  and  one  of  them,  named  Zedekiah, 
resorting  to  material  symbols,  made  him  horns  of  iron, 
saying,  “Thus  saith  the  Lord,  with  these  shalt  thou 
smite  the  Syrians  till  they  be  consumed.”  Still  Jehosh- 
aphat was  not  satisfied ; and  the  answer  to  his  further 
inquiries  extorted  from  him  a rebuke  of  the  reluctance 
which  Ahab  manifested  to  call  Micah  “the  prophet  of 
the  Lord.”  The  fearless  words  of  this  prophet  did  not 
make  the  impression  upon  the  king  of  Judah  which 
might  have  been  expected;  or,  probably,  he  then  felt 
himself  too  deeply  bound  in  honor  to  recede.  He  went 
to  the  fatal  battle  of  Ramoth-gilead,  and  there  nearly 
became  the  victim  of  a plan  which  Ahab  had  laid  for 
his  own  safety  at  the  expense  of  his  too-eonfiding  ally. 
He  persuaded  Jehoshaphat  to  appear  as  king,  while  he 
himself  went  disguised  to  the  battle.  This  brought  the 


Chron.  xvii,  1,2);  and,  having  thus  secured  himself  heat  of  the  contest  around  him,  as  the  Syrians  took  him 
against  surprise  from  the  quarter  which  gave  most  dis-  for  Ahab;  and,  if  they  had  not  in  time  discovered  their 
turbanee  to  him,  he  proceeded  to  cleanse  the  land  from  mistake,  he  would  certainly  have  been  slain  (1  Kings 
the  idolatries  and  idolatrous  monuments  by  which  it  xxii,  1-33).  Ahab  was  killed,  and  the  battle  lost;  but 
was  still  tainted  (1  Kings  xxii,  43).  Even  the  high-  Jehoshaphat  escaped,  and  returned  to  Jerusalem  (2 
places  and  groves  which  former  well-disposed  kings  had  Chron.  xviii).  B.C.  895.  See  Ahab. 
suffered  to  remain  were  by  the  zeal  of  Jehoshaphat  in  a On  his  return  from  this  imprudent  expedition  he  was 


great  measure  destroyed  (2  Chron.  xvii,  6),  although  not 
altogether  (2  Chron.  xx,  33).  In  the  third  year  of  his 
reign,  chiefs,  with  priests  and  Levites,  proceeded  from 
town  to  town,  with  the  book  of  the  Law  in  their  hands, 
instructing  the  people,  and  calling  back  their  wandering 
affections  to  the  religion  of  their  lathers  (2  Chron.  xvii, 
7-9).  The  results  of  this  fidelity  to  the  principles  of 
the  theocracy  were,  that  at  home  he  enjoyed  peace  and 
abundance,  and  abroad  security  and  honor.  Ilis  treas- 
uries were  filled  with  the  “presents”  which  the  blessing 
of  God  upon  the  people,  “ in  their  basket  and  their  store,” 
enabled  them  to  bring.  Ills  renown  extended  into  the 
neighboring  nations,  and  the  Philistines,  as  well  as  the 
adjoining  Arabian  tribes,  paid  him  rich  tributes  in  sil- 
ver and  in  cattle.  lie  was  thus  enabled  to  put  all  his 
towns  in  good  condition,  to  erect  fortresses,  to  organize  a 
powerful  arm}-,  and  to  raise  his  kingdom  to  a degree  of 


met  by  the  just  reproaches  of  the  prophet  Jehu  (2 
Chron.  xix,  1-3).  The  best  atonement  he  could  make 
for  this  error  was  by  the  course  he  actually  took.  He 
resumed  his  labors  in  the  further  extirpation  of  idola- 
try. in  the  instruction  of  the  people,  and  the  improve- 
ment of  his  realm.  He  now  made  a tour  of  his  kingdom 
in  person,  “ from  Beersheba  to  Mount  Ephraim,”  that  he 
might  see  the  ordinances  of  God  duly  established,  and 
witness  the  due  execution  of  his  intentions  respecting 
the  instruction  of  the  people  in  the  divine  law.  This 
tour  enabled  him  to  discern  many  defects  in  the  local 
administration  of  justice,  which  he  then  applied  him- 
self to  remedy  (see  Selden,  De  Synedr.  ii,  ch.  8,  § 4). 
He  appointed  magistrates  in  every  city  for  the  deter- 
mination of  causes  civil  and  ecclesiastical;  and  the  na- 
ture of  the  abuses  to  which  the  administration  of  justice 
was  in  those  days  exposed  may  be  gathered  from  his 


importance  and  splendor  which  it  had  not  enjoyed  since  j excellent  charge  to  them  : “Take  heed  what  ye  do,  for 
the  revolt  of  the  ten  tribes  (2  Chron.  xvii,  10-19).  | ye  judge  not  for  man,  but  for  the  Lord,  who  is  with  you 

The  weak  and  impious  Ahab  at  that  time  occupied  . in  the  judgment.  Wherefore  now  let  the  fear  of  the 
the  throne  of  Israel;  and  Jehoshaphat,  after  a time,  ! Lord  be  upon  you,  take  heed  and  do  it;  for  there  is  no 
having  nothing  to  fear  from  his  power,  sought,  or  at  iniquity  with  the  Lord  our  God,  nor  respect  of  persons, 
least  did  not  repel,  an  alliance  with  him.  This  is  al-  nor  taking  of  gifts.”  Then  he  established  a supreme 
leged  to  have  been  the  grand  mistake  of  his  reign,  and  council  of  justice  at  Jerusalem,  composed  of  priests,  >Le- 
that  it  was  such  is  proved  by  the  consequences.  Ahab  vites,  and  “ the  chiefs  of  the  fathers,”  to  which  difficult 
might  be  benefited  by  the  connection,  but  under  no  eir-  cases  were  referred,  and  appeals  brought  from  the  pro- 
cumstances  could  it  be  of  service  to  Jehoshaphat  or  his  , vineial  tribunals.  This  tribunal  also  was  inducted  by  a 
kingdom,  and  it  might,  as  it  actually  did,  involve  him  weighty  but  short  charge  from  the  king,  whose  conduct 
in  much  disgrace  and  disaster,  and  bring  bloodshed  and  j in  this  and  other  matters  places  him  at  the  very  head 
trouble  into  his  house.  Jelioshaphat’s  eldest  son  Jeho-  of  the  monarelis  who  reigned  over  Judah  as  a separate 
ram  married  Athaliah,  the  daughter  of  Ahab  and  Jeze-  kingdom  (2  Chron.  xix,  4-11). 

bel.  It  docs  not  appear  how  far  Jehoshaphat  encour-  The  activity  of  Jehoshaphat’s  mind  was  next  turned 
aged  that  ill-starred  union.  The  closeness  of  the  alliance  towards  the  revival  of  that  maritime  commerce  which 
between  the  two  kings  is  shown  by  many  circumstances:  had  been  established  by  Solomon.  The  land  of  Edom 
Elijah’s  reluctance  when  in  exile  to  set  foot  within  the  and  the  ports  of  the  Elanitie  Gulf  were  still  under  the 
territory  of  Judah  (Blunt,  Und.  Coinc.  ii,  § 19,  p.  199);  power  of  Judah,  and  in  them  the  king  prepared  a fieet 
the  identity  of  names  given  to  the  children  of  the  two  for  the  voyage  to  Ophir.  Unhappily,  however,  he 
royal  families ; the  admission  of  names  compounded  with  yielded  to  the  wish  of  the  king  of  Israel,  and  allowed 
the  name  of  Jehovah  into  the  family  of  Jezebel,  the  him  to  take  part  in  the  enterprise.  For  this  the  expe- 
zealous  worshipper  of  Baal ; and  the  alacrity  with  which  dition  Avas  doomed  of  God,  and  the  vessels  rvere  Avrecked 
Jehoshaphat  accompanied  Ahab  to  the  field  of  battle,  almost  as  soon  as  they  quitted  port.  Instructed  by  Eli- 
Aceordingly,  AA'e  next  find  him  on  a visit  to  Ahab  in  Sa-  ezer,  the  prophet,  as  to  the  cause  of  this  disaster,  Je- 
maria,  being  the  first  time  any  of  the  kings  of  Israel  and  hoshaphat  equipped  a neAV  fleet,  and,  haA'ing  this  time 
Judah  bad  met  in  peace,  lie  here  experienced  a reeep-  declined  the  co-operation  of  the  king  of  Israel,  the  voy- 
tion  worthy  of  his  greatness ; but  Ahab  failed  not  to  ) age  prospered,  The  trade,  however,  Avas  not  prosecuted 


JEHOSHAPHAT 


807  JEIIOSIIAPHAT,  VALLEY  OF 


with  any  zeal,  and  was  soon  abandoned  (2  Chron.  xx, 
35-37;  i Kings  xxii,  48,  49).  B.C.  895.  See  Com- 
bi ekce. 

After  the  death  of  Ahaziah,  king  of  Israel,  Jehoram, 
his  successor,  persuaded  Jehoshaphat  to  join  him  in  an 
expedition  against  Moab.  B.C.  eir.  891.  This  alliance 
was,  however,  on  political  grounds,  more  excusable  than 
the  two  former,  as  the  Moabites,  who  were  under  tribute 
to  Israel,  might  draw  into  their  cause  the  Edomites, 
who  were  tributary  to  Judah.  Besides,  Moab  could  be 
invaded  with  most  advantage  from  the  south,  round  by 
the  end  of  the  Dead  Sea;  and  the  king  of  Israel  could 
not  gain  access  to  them  in  that  quarter  but  by  marching 
through  the  territories  of  Jehoshaphat.  The  latter  not 
only  joined  Jehoram  with  his  own  arrnv,  but  required 
his  tributary,  the  king  of  Edom,  to  bring  liis  forces  into 
the  field.  During  the  seven  days’  march  through  the 
wilderness  of  Edom  the  army  suffered  much  from  want 
of  water,  and  by  the  time  the  allies  came  in  sight  of 
the  army  of  Moab  they  were  ready  to  perish  from  thirst. 
In  this  emergency,  the  pious  Jehoshaphat  thought,  as 
usual,  of  consulting  the  Lord,  and,  hearing  that  the 
prophet  Elisha  was  in  the  camp,  the  three  kings  pro- 
ceeded to  his  tent.  For  the  sake  of  Jehoshaphat,  and 
for  his  sake  only,  deliverance  was  promised,  and  it  came 
during  the  ensuing  night  in  the  shape  of  an  abundant 
supply  of  water,  which  rolled  down  the  exhausted  wa- 
dys,  and  filled  the  pools  and  hollow  grounds.  After- 
wards Jehoshaphat  took  his  full  part  in  the  operations 
of  the  campaign  till  the  armies  were  induced  to  with- 
draw in  horror  by  witnessing  the  dreadful  act  of  Mesha, 
king  of  Moab,  in  offering  up  his  eldest  son  in  sacrifice 
upon  the  wall  of  the  town  in  which  he  was  shut  up  (2 
Kings  iii.  4-27).  Sec  Jehoram. 

This  war  kindled  another  much  more  dangerous  to 
Jehoshaphat.  The  Moabites,  being  highly  exasperated 
at  the  part  he  took  against  them,  turned  all  their  wrath 
upon  him.  They  induced  their  kindred,  the  Ammon- 
ites, to  join  them,  obtained  auxiliaries  from  the  Syrians, 
and  even  drew  over  the  Edomites,  so  that  the  strength 
of  all  the  neighboring  nations  may  be  said  to  have  been 
united  for  this  great  enterprise.  The  allied  forces  en- 
tered the  land  of  Judah  and  encamped  at  Engedi,  near 
the  western  border  of  the  Dead  Sea.  In  this  extremity 
Jehoshaphat  felt  that  all  his  defence  lay  with  God.  A 
solemn  fast  was  held,  and  the  people  repaired  from  the 
towns  to  Jerusalem  to  seek  help  of  the  Lord.  In  the 
presence  of  the  assembled  multitude,  the  king,  in  the 
court  of  the  Temple,  offered  up  a fervent  prayer  to  God, 
concluding  with,  “ O our  God,  wilt  thou  not  judge  them, 
for  toe  have  no  might  against  this  great  company  that 
eometh  against  ns,  neither  know  we  wrliat  to  do;  but 
our  eyes  are  upon  thee.”  lie  ceased;  and  in  the  midst 
of  the  silence  which  ensued,  a voice  was  raised  pronoun- 
cing deliverance  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  telling 
them  to  go  out  on  the  morrow  to  the  cliffs  overlooking 
the  camp  of  the  enemy,  and  see  them  all  overthrown 
without  a blow  from  them.  The  voice  was  that  of  Ja- 
haziel,  one  of  the  Levites.  His  words  came  to  pass. 
The  allies  quarrelled  among  themselves,  and  destroyed 
each  other;  so  that  wrhen  the  Judahites  came  the  next 
day  they  found  their  dreaded  enemies  all  dead,  and  noth- 
ing was  left  for  them  but  to  take  the  rich  spoils  of  the 
slain.  This  done,  they  returned  with  triumphal  songs 
to  Jerusalem.  This  great  event  was  recognised  even 
by  the  neighboring  nations  as  the  act  of  God ; and  so 
strong  was  the  impression  which  it  made  upon  them, 
that  the  remainder  of  Jehoshaphat’s  reign  was  passed 
in  quiet  (2  Chron.  xx).  B.C.  890.  1 1 is  death,  how- 

ever, took  place  not  very  long  after  this,  at  the  age  of 
sixty,  after  having  reigned  twenty-five  years,  B.C.  887. 
He  left  the  kingdom  in  a prosperous  condition  to  his 
eldest  son  Jehoram,  whom  he  had  in  the  last  years  of 
his  life  associated  with  him  in  the  government.  See 
Jehoram,  5. 

“Jehoshaphat,  who  sought  the  Lord  with  all  his 
heart,”  was  the  character  given  to  this  king  by  Jehu, 


when,  on  that  account,  he  gave  to  his  grandson  an  hon- 
orable grave  (2  Chron.  xxii,  9).  This,  in  fact,  was. the 
sum  and  substance  of  his  character.  The  Hebrew  an- 
nals offer  the  example  of  no  king  who  more  carefully 
squared  all  his  conduct  by  the  principles  of  the  theoc- 
racy. lie  kept  the  Lord  always  before  his  eyes,  and 
was  in  all  things  obedient  to  his  will  when  made  known 
to  him  by  the  prophets.  Few  of  the  kings  of  Judah 
manifested  so  much  zeal  for  the  real  welfare  of  his  peo- 
ple, or  took  measures  so  judicious  to  promote  it.  His 
good  talents,  the  benevolence  of  his  disposition,  and  his 
generally  sound  judgment,  are  shown  not  only  in  the 
great  measures  of  domestic  policy  which  distinguished 
his  reign,  but  by  the  manner  in  which  they  were  exe- 
cuted. No  trace  can  be  found  in  him  of  that  pride 
which  dishonored  some  and  ruined  others  of  the  kings 
who  preceded  and  followed  him.  Most  of  his  errors 
arose  from  that  dangerous  facility  of  temper  which  some- 
times led  him  to  act  against  the  dictates  of  his  naturally 
sound  judgment,  or  prevented  that  judgment  from  being 
fairly  exercised.  The  kingdom  of  Judah  was  never 
happier  or  more  prosperous  than  under  his  reign ; and 
this,  perhaps,  is  the  highest  praise  that  can  be  given  to 
any  king.  His  name  ( lu “Josaphat”)  occurs  in 
the  list  of  our  Saviour’s  ancestors  (Matt,  i,  8). — Kitto. 
See  Judaii,  kingdom  of. 

6.  The  son  of  Nimshi,  and  father  of  king  Jehu  of  Is- 
rael (2  Kings  ix,  2,  14).  B.C.  ante  883. 

JEHOSHAPHAT,  VALLEY  OF  pS^ii-P 
Sept.  Kot\«e  ’lojaatyur,  Vulg.  Vallis  Josuphat),  a valley 
mentioned  in  Scripture  by  the  prophet  Joel  only,  as  the 
spot  in  which,  after  the  return  of  Judah  and  Jerusalem 
from  captivity,  Jehovah  would  gather  all  the  heathen 
(Joel  iii,  2 [iv,  2J),  and  would  there  sit  to  judge  them 
for  their  misdeeds  to  Israel  (Joel  iii,  12  [v,  4]).  The 
nations  referred  to  seem  to  be  those  who  specially  op- 
pressed Israel  and  aided  in  their  overthrow,  particu- 
larly the  Sidonians,  Tyrians,  and  Phoenicians  generally 
(ver.  4).  The  passage  is  one  of  great  boldness,  abound- 
ing in  the  verbal  turns  in  which  Hebrew  poetry  so  much 
delights;  and,  in  particular,  there  is  a play  between  the 
name  given  to  the  spot— Jehoshaphat,  i. e.  “Jehovah’s 
judgment"  — and  the  “judgment”  there  to  be  pro- 
nounced. The  Hebrew  prophets  often  refer  to  the  an- 
cient glories  of  their  nation  : thus  Isaiah  speaks  of  the 
“day  of  Midinn,”  and  of  the  triumphs  of  David  and  of 
Joshua  in  “ Mount  Perazim”  and  in  the  “valley  of  Gib- 
eon,”  and  in  like  manner  Joel,  in  announcing  the  ven- 
geance to  be  taken  on  the  strangers  who  were  annoying 
his  country  (iii,  14),  seems  to  have  glanced  back  to  that 
triumphant  day  when  king  Jehoshaphat — the  greatest 
king  the  nation  had  seen  since  Solomon,  and  the  great- 
est champion  of  Jehovah — led  out  his  people  to  a valley 
in  the  wilderness  of  Tekoali,  and  was  there  blessed  with 
such  a victory  over  the  hordes  of  his  enemies  as  was 
without  a parallel  in  the  national  records  (2  Chron.  xx : 
see  J.  E.  Gerhardt,  Dissert,  r.  th  Citation  ins  Thai  Josa- 
phat [Bayreuth,  1775]).  See  Joed. 

But,  though  such  a reference  to  Jehoshaphat  is  both 
natural  and  characteristic,  it  is  not  certain  that  it  is  in- 
tended. The  name  may  be  only  an  imaginary  one,  con- 
ferred on  a spot  which  existed  nowhere  but  in  the  vis- 
ion of  the  prophet.  Such  was  the  view  of  some  of  the 
ancient  translators.  Thus  Theodotion  renders  it  \dn>a 
Koiaeioc,  and  so  the  Targum  of  Jonathan — “the  plain  of 
the  division  of  judgment.”  Michaelis  ( Bihelfiir  Ungi- 
lehrte,  Remarks  on  Joel)  takes  a similar  view,  and  con- 
siders the  passage  to  be  a prediction  of  the  Maccabtcan 
victories.  By  others,  however,  the  prophet  has  been 
supposed  to  have  had  the  end  of  the  world  in  view  (see 
Henderson,  Keil,  etc.,  ad  loc.). 

The  name  “ Valley  of  Jehoshaphat”  (generally  simply 
el-Jus,  more  fully  wady  Jusajat,  also  wady  Shafat  or 
Faraun),  in  modern  times,  is  attached  to  the  deep  ra- 
vine which  separates  Jerusalem  from  the  Mount  of 
Olives,  through  which  at  one  time  the  Kedron  forced 


JEHOSHAPHAT,  VALLEY  OF  808  JEHOSHAPHAT,  VALLEY  OF 


its  stream.  At  what  period  the  name  was  first  applied  i 
to  tfiis  spot  is  not  known.  There  is  no  trace  of  it  in 
the  Bible  or  in  Josephus.  In  both  the  only  name  used 
for  this  gorge  is  Kidron  (N.  T.  “Cedron”).  "W  e first 
encounter  its  new  title  in  the  middle  of  the  4th  century, 
in  the  Onomasticon  of  Eusebius  and  Jerome  (s.  v.  Codas), 
and  in  the  commentary  of  the  latter  lather  on  Joel. 
Since  that  time  the  name  has  Jjeen  recognised  and 
adopted  by  travellers  of  all  ages'" and  all  faiths.  It  is 
used  by  Christians— as  Arculf,  in  700  (Early  Trav.  p.4) ; 
the  author  of  the  Citez  de  Jherusalem,  in  1187 ; and 
Maundrell,  in  1097  {Early  Trav.  p.  409)— and  by  Jews, 
as  Benjamin  of  Tudela,  about  1 170  (Asher  i,  71 ; see  Be- 
laud, Palvest.  p.  350).  By  the  Moslems  it  is  still  said  to 
be  called  by  the  traditional  name  (Sectzen,  ii,  23, 26), 
though  the  name  usually  given  to  the  valley  is  wady 
Sitti-Maryam.  Both  Moslems  and  Jews  believe  that 
the  last  judgment  is  to  take  place  there.  To  find  a 
grave  there  is  a frecpient  wish  of  the  latter  (Briggs, 
Heathen  and  Holy  Lands , p.  290),  and  the  former  show 
— as  they  have  shown  for  certainly  two  centuries — the 
place  on  which  Mohammed  is  to  be  seated  at  the  last 
judgment : a stone  jutting  out  from  the  east  wall  of  the 
llaram  area,  near  the  south  corner — one  of  the  pillars 
which  once  adorned  the  churches  of  Helena  or  Justin- 
ian, and  of  which  multitudes  are  now  imbedded  in  the 
rude  masonry  of  the  more  modem  walls  of  Jerusalem. 
This  pillar  is  said  to  be  ealled  et-Tarik , “ the  road”  (De 
Sauley,  Voyage,  ii,  199).  From  it  will  spring  the  bridge 
of  As-JSirat,  the  crossing  of  which  is  to  test  the  true  be- 
lievers. Those  who  cannot  stand  the  test  will  drop  off 
into  the  abyss  of  (iehenna,  in  the  depths  of  the  valley 
(Ali  Bey,  p.  224,  5 ; Mejr  ccl-Din  in  Bobinson’s  Research. 
i,  209).  The  steep  sides  of  the  ravine,  wherever  a level 
strip  affords  the  opportunity,  are  crowded — in  places  al- 
most paved — by  the  sepulchres  of  the  Moslems,  or  the 
simpler  slabs  of  the  Jewish  tombs,  alike  awaiting  the 
assembly  of  the  last  judgment.  (For  a full  description 
of  this  valley,  see  Bobinson,  Bibl.  Researches , i,  342, 355, 
390-402;  ii,  249.) 

So  narrow  and  precipitous  a glen  is  quite  unsuited  to 
the  Biblical  event,  but  this  inconsistency  does  not  appear 
to  have  disturbed  those  who  framed  or  those  who  hold 
the  tradition.  It  is,  however,  implied  in  the  Heb.  terms 
employed  in  the  two  eases.  That  by  Joel  is  emek  (p"2^), 
a word  applied  to  spacious  valleys  such  as  those  of  Es- 
draelon  or  Gibeon  (Stanley,  Syria  and  Palest.,  Appendix, 

§ 1).  On  the  other  hand,  the  ravine  of  the  Kidron  is 
invariably  designated  by  nuchal  (^H3),  answering  to  the 
modern  Arabic  wady.  There  is  no  instance  in  the  O.  T. 
of  these  two  terms  being  convertible,  and  this  fact  alone 
would  warrant  the  inference  that  the  tradition  of  the 
identity  of  the  emek  of  Jehoshapliat  and  the  naclial 
Kidron  did  not  arise  until  Hebrew  had  begun  to  beeome 
a dead  language.  The  grounds-  on  which  it  did  arise 
were  probably  these : 

1.  The  frequent  mention  throughout  this  passage  of 
Joel  of  Mount  Zion,  Jerusalem,  and  the  Temple  (ii,  32; 
iii,  1,0, 10, 17, 18)  may  have  led  to  the  belief  that  the 
locality  of  the  great  judgment  would  be  in  the  immedi- 
ate neighborhood.  This  would  be  assisted  by  the  men- 
tion of  the  Mount  of  Olives  in  the  somewhat  similar 
passage  in  Zechariah  (xiv,  3, 4). 

2.  The  belief  that  Christ  would  reappear  in  judgment 
on  the  Mount  of  Olives,  from  which  he  had  ascended. 
This  was  at  one  time  a received  article  of  Christian  be- 
lief, and  was  grounded  on  the  words  of  the  angels,  “IIe 
shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen  him  go 
into  heaven”  (Adrichomius,  Thratr.  Terras  Sanctee , s.  v, 
Jerusalem,  § 192  ; Corn,  ii  Lapide  on  Acts  i).  Sir  John 
Maundeville  gives  a different  reason  for  the  same. 
“Very  near  this” — the  place  where  Christ  wept  over 
Jerusalem — “is  the  stone  on  which  our  Lord  sat  when 
lie  preached ; and  on  tlwit  same  stone  shall  he  sit  on  the 
day  of  doom,  right  as  he  said  himself.”  Bernard  the 
M isc,  in  the  8th  century,  speaks  of  the  church  of  St.  | 


I Leon,  in  the  valley,  “ where  our  Lord  will  come  to  judg- 
ment” (Early  Travels , p.  28). 

3.  There  is  the  alternative  that  the  valley  of  Jehosh- 
aphat  was  really  an  ancient  name  of  the  valley  of  the 
Kidron,  and  that,  from  the  name,  the  connection  with 
Joel’s  prophecy  and  the  belief  in  its  being  the  seene  of 
Jehovah’s  last  judgment  have  followed.  This  may  be 
so,  but  then  we  should  expect  to  find  some  trace  of  the 
existence  of  the  name  before  the  fourth  century  after 
Christ.  It  was  eertainly  'used  as  a bnrying-place  as 
early  as  the  reign  of  Josiah  (2  Kings  xxiii,  6),  but  no 
inference  can  fairly  be  drawn  from  tins. 

But,  whatever  originated  the  tradition,  it  has  held  its 
ground  most  firmly,  as  is  evineed  by  several  local  circum- 
stances. (a)  In  the  valley  itself,  one  of  the  four  remark- 
able monuments  which  exist  at  the  foot  of  Olivet  was 
at  a very  early  date  connected  with  Jehoshapliat.  At 
Arculf’s  visit  (about  700)  the  name  appears  to  have 
been  borne  by  that  now  called  “Absalom’s  tomb,”  but 
then  the  “ tower  of  Jehoshaphat”  {Early  Travels,  p.  4). 
In  the  time  of  Maundrell,  the  “tomb  of  Jehoshaphat” 
was  what  it  still  is — an  exeavation,  with  an  architectu- 
ral front,  in  the  faee  of  the  rock  behind  “Absalom’s 
tomb.”  A tolerable  view  of  this  is  given  in  plate  33  of 
Munk’s  Palestine ; and  a photograph  by  Salzmann,  with 
a description,  in  the  Texte  (p.  31)  to  the  same.  The 
name  may,  as  already  observed,  really  point  to  Jehosha- 
phat himself,  though  not  to  his  tomb,  as  he  was  buried, 
like  the  other  kings,  in  the  city  of  David  (2  Cliron.  xxi, 
1).  See  Absalom’s  Tomb,  (b)  One  of  the  gates  of  the 
city  in  the  east  wall,  opening  on  the  valley,  bore  the 
same  name.  This  is  plain  from  the  Citez  de  Jherusalem, 
where  the  Porte  de  Iosafas  is  said  to  have  been  a “ pos- 
tern” close  to  the  golden  gate-way  {Portez  Oiris),  and  to 
the  south  of  that  gpte  (pars  devers  midi,  § 4).  It  was, 
therefore,  at  or  near  the  small  walled-up  door-way,  to 
which  M.  de  Saulcy  has  restored  the  name  of  the  P6- 
terne  de  Josaphat,  and  which  is  hut  a few  feet  to  the 
south  of  the  golden  gate-way.  However  this  may  be, 
this  “postern”  is  evidently  of  later  date  than  the  wall 
in  which  it  occurs,  as  some  of  the  enormous  stones  of 
the  wall  have  been  cut  through  to  admit  it,  and  in  so 
far,  therefore,  it  is  a witness  to  the  date  of  the  tradition 
being  subsequent  to  the  time  of  Herod,  by  whom  this 
wall  was  built.  It  is  probably  the  “ little  gate,  leading 
down  by  steps  to  the  valley”  of  which  Arculf  speaks. 
Benjamin  of  Tudela  (1103)  also  mentions  the  gate  of 
Jehoshaphat,  but  without  any  nearer  indication  of  its 
position  than  that  it  led  to  the  valley  and  the  monu- 
ments (Aslier,  i,  71).  (e)  Lastly,  leading  to  this  gate 

was  a street  called  the  street  of  Jehoshaphat  {Citez  de 
Jherusalem,  § 7). — Smith. 

If  the  “king’s  dale”  (or  valley  of  Shaveh)  of  Gen. 
xiv,  17,  and  of  2 Sam.  xviii,  18,  be  the  same,  and  if  the 
commonly  -received  location  of  them  be  correct,  then  we 
have  the  valley  of  Jehoshaphat  identified  with  that  of 
Melchizedek,  and  its  history  carries  ns  back  to  Salem’s 
earliest  days.  But  at  what  time  it  became  a cemetery 
we  are  not  informed.  See  Shaveh. 

Cyril,  in  the  4th  century,  mentions  it  in  a way  which 
indicates  that  in  his  day  tradition  had  altered,  or  that 
the  valley  was  supposed  to  embrace  a wider  sweep  of 
country  than  now,  for  he  speaks  of  it  as  some  furlongs 
east  of  Jerusalem — as  bare,  and  fitted  for  equestrian  ex- 
ercises (Beland,  Fairest ina,  p.  355).  Some  old  travellers 
say  that  it  was  “ three  miles  in  length,  reaching  from 
‘the  vale  of  Jehinnon  to  a place  without  the  city  which 
they  call  the  sepulchres  of  the  kings”  {Travels  of  Two 
Englishmen  two  centuries  ago).  Some  of  the  old  trav- 
ellers— such  as  Felix  Fabri,  in  the  I5tli  century — eall  it 
Cele,  from  the  Koilas  of  Eusebius  and  the  Cceias  of  Je- 
rome ; and  they  call  that  part  of  the  Kidron  which  is 
connected  with  it  Criiuirius  or  Krinarius — the  place  of 
judgment  {Evag.  i,  371).  We  may  add  that  these  old 
writers  extend  this  valley  considerably  upwards,  placing 
, Gethsemane  and  the  traditional  tomb  of  the  Virgin  in 
I it.  They  seem  to  have  divided  the  Kidron  bed  into 


JEIIOSIIEBA 


809 


JEHOVAH 


two  parts : the  lower,  called  the  valley  of  Siloam  or  Si- 
loe;  the  upper,  the  valley  of  Jehoshaphat,  from  which 
the  eastern  gate  of  the  city  in  early  times  was  called,  not, 
as  now,  St.  Stephen’s,  but  “ the  gate  of  the  valley  of  Je- 
hoshaphat.” 

The  present  valley  of  Jehoshaphat  occupies  the  Kid- 
ron  hollow  and  the  adjoining  acclivities  on  both  sides. 
Its  limits  have  not  been  defined,  but  it  is  supposed  to 
begin  a little  above  the  fountain  of  the  Virgin  (Urn  ed- 
Deraj),  and  to  extend  to  the  bend  of  the  Kidron,  under 
Scopus.  The  acclivity  to  the  eastern  wall  of  Jerusalem 
is — at  least  towards  the  top — a Turkish  burying-ground ; 
and  the  white  tombs,  with  the  Koran  (in  stone)  at  the 
one  end,  and  a turban  at  the  other,  look  picturesque  as 
they  dot  for  several  hundred  yards  the  upper  part  of  the 
slope.  The  other  acclivity,  ascending  the  steep  between 
Olivet  and  the  Mount  of  Corruption,  is  crowded  all  over 
with  fiat  Jewish  tombs,  each  with  the  Hebrew  inscrip- 
tion, and  speckled  here  and  there  with  bushy  olive- 
trees.  Thus  Moslems  and  Jews  occupy  the  valley  of 
Jehoshaphat  between  them,  with  their  dead  looking  I 


was  a providential  circumstance — “ for  she  was  the  sis- 
ter of  Ahaziali”  (2  Chron.  xxii,  11) — as  inducing  and 
probably  enabling  her  to  rescue  the  infant  Jehoash  from 
the  massacre  of  his  brothers.  By  her  he  and  his  nurse 
were  concealed  in  the  palace,  and  afterwards  in  the  Tem- 
ple (2  Kings  xi,  2,  3;  2 Chron.  xxii,  11),  where  he  was 
brought  up  probably  with  her  sons  (2Chron.  xxiii,  11), 
who  assisted  at  his  coronation.  One  of  these  was  Zecli- 
ariah,  who  succeeded  her  husband  in  his  ollicc,  and 
was  afterwards  murdered  (2  Chron.  xxiv,  20). — Smith. 
Needless  doubt  has  been  thrown  upon  her  marriage 
with  Jelioiada  (Newman,  1 1 eh.  Monarch,  p.  195),  which 
is  not  expressly  mentioned  in  Kings,  as  “a  fiction  of  the 
chronicler  to  glorify  his  greatness.”  This,  however,  is 
certainly  assumed  in  2 Kings  xi,  3,  and  is  accepted  by 
Ewald  ( Geschichte , iii,  575)  as  perfectly  authentic.— Kit- 
to.  Jsee  Jeiioiada. 


Jehosh'ua  (Numb,  xiii,  16),  or  Jehosli'uah  (1 
Chron.  vii,  27).  See  Joshua. 

Jeho'vah  (mrp,  Yekovah',  Sept,  usually  6 Kupjof, 
Auth.  Vers,  usually  “ the  Loud”),  the 
name  by  which  God  was  pleased  to 
make  himself  known,  under  the  cov- 
enant, to  the  ancient  Hebrews  (Exod. 
vi,  2, 3),  although  it  was  doubtless  in 
use  among  the  patriarchs,  as  it  oc- 
curs even  in  the  history  of  the  cre- 
ation (Gen.  ii,  4).  The  theory  of 
Schwind  ( Sentitische  Denhn.  1792), 
that  the  record  is  of  later  origin  than 
the  Mosaic  age,  is  based  upon  the  false 
assumption  that  the  Hehrews  had 
previously  been  polytheistic.  See 
Genesis;  God. 

I.  Modern  Pronunciation  of  the 
Xante. — Although  ever  since  the  time 
of  Galatinus,  a writer  of  the  16th  cen- 
tury (Be  arcanis  catholicce  veritatis, 
lib.  3)  — not,  as  according  to  others, 
since  Raymund  Martin  (see  Gusset. 
Lex.  p.  383) — it  has  been  the  almost 

The  Valley  of  Jehoshaphat  from  the  S.W.,  with  the  so-called  Tombs  of  Ab-  universal  custom  to  pronounce  the 
salom,  Jehoshaphat,  and  Zechariah ; the  Jewish  Burial-plot  in  the  fore-  name  nirp  (in  those  conies  where  it 
ground,  and  the  Mt.  of  Olives  in  the  background.  . , . T,  \ . , , . x , 

is  furnished  with  vowels),  Jehovah, 

across  the  Kidron  into  each  others’  faces,  and  laid  there  I yet,  at  the  present  day,  most  scholars  agree  that  this 
in  the  common  belief  that  it  was  no  ordinary  privilege  j pointing  is  not  the  original  and  genuine  one,  but  that 
to  die  in  Jerusalem  and  be  buried  in  such  a spot.  The  j these  vowels  arc  derived  from  those  of  ‘HX,  Adonai. 


valley  of  the  present  day  presents  nothing  remarkable. 
It  is  rough  to  the  feet  and  barren  to  the  eye.  It  is  still, 
moreover,  frequently  a solitude,  with  nothing  to  break 
the  loneliness  but  perhaps  a passing  shepherd  with  a 
few  sheep,  or  a traveller  on  his  way  to  Anata,  or  some 
inhabitant  of  Silwan  or  Bethany  going  into  the  city  by 
the  gate  of  St.  Stephen.  Tombs,  and  olives,  and  rough, 
verdureless  steeps  are  all  that  meet  the  eye  on  either 
side. — Fairbairn.  See  Jerusalem. 

Jehosh'eba  (Heb.  Yehoshe’ba,  Jehovah- 


For  the  later  Hebrews,  even  before  the  time  of  the  Sept, 
version,  either  following  some  old  superstition  (compare 
Herod,  ii,  86 ; Cicero,  Be  nat.  dear,  iii,  56)  or  deceived  by 
a false  interpretation  of  a certain  Mosaic  precept  (Lev. 
xxiv,  16),  have  always  regarded  this  name  as  too  sacred 
even  to  be  pronounced  (l’hilo,  Be  rit.  Mosis,  iii,  519,  529, 
ed.  Colon.;  Joseph.  A nt.  ii,  12,  4 ; Talmud,  Sanhed.  ii,  90, 
a;  Maimonides  in  Jad.  Chasaha , xiv,  10  ; also  in  More 
Xebochim,  i,  61;  Tlieodoret,  Qwest.  13  in  Exod.;  Euse- 
bius, Prcep.  Evangel,  ii,  305).  Wherever,  therefore,  this 


swearing ; Septuag.  1 utoafiee,  Josephus  lojaafiict]),  the  inelfable  name  is  read  in  the  sacred  books,  they  pro- 
daughter  of  Jehoram,  sister  of  Ahaziali,  and  aunt  of  Jo-  | nounced  (1onatJ?  Lor(j,  in  its  stead ; and  hence, 

ash,  kings  ol  Judah.  The  last  of  these  owed  Ins  life  to  , xl  T ~=  . i , ... 

licr,  and  his  crown  to  her  husband,  the  high-priest  Je-  "'hon  tl,e  Masoret,c  tcxt  cam0  t0  be  w,tl‘  ,ho 

lmiada  (2  Kings  xi,  2).  In  the  parallel  passage  (2 ! vowels,  the  four  letters  rrm  were  pointed  with  the 
Chron.  xxii,  11)  the  name  is  written  Jehosiiabeath  vowels  of  this  word,  the  initial  ■'  taking,  as  usual,  a sim- 
(r?2’jiPP,  Yehoshabath' ; Sept.  ’Uoaafiic).  B.C.  882. 1 pie  instead  of  a compound  Sheva.  This  derivation  of  the 
See  Jehoasii,  1.  Her  name  thus  exactly  corresponds)  vowels  is  evident  from  the  peculiar  pointing  after  the 
in  meaning  to  that  of  the  only  two  other  wives  of  Jew-  ' prefixes,  and  from  the  use  of  the  Dagesli  after  it.  in  both 
ish  priests  who  are  known  to  iis,  viz.  Elisiieba.  the  wife  j which  particidars  it  exactly  imitates  the  peculiarities 
of  Aaron  (Exod.  vi,  23),  and  Elisabeth,  the  wife  of  of  13*1X,  and  likewise  from  the  varied  pointing  when 
Zechariah  (Luke  i,  7).  As  she  is  called  (2  Kings  xi,  2)  i following  in  which  case  it  is  written  rviiT  and 

“ th.e  dauS!uf  °{{oram’  sftef  of  Ahaziah,”  it  has  been  pronoimced “Elohim,”  God , the  vowels  of  which 

rmipptnrpri  tnnt  clip  was  trip  rlfiiiorhl-pr  nnt  nf  Athnliah  1 * *•*- 


conjectured  that  she  was  the  daughter,  not  of  Athaliah, 
but  of  Joram  bjr  another  wife  (comp.  Josephus,  Ant.  ix,  J 


I it  then  borrows,  to  prevent  the  repetition  of  the  sound 


7,  1,  ’O Xolia  bfto Trdrptoe  dct\<pi}).  She 'is  “[he  ' only  ! Admay.  That  a similar  law  or  notion  prevailed  even 
recorded  instance  of  the  marriage  of  a princess  of  the  ! before  the  Christian  a?ra  may  be  inferred  from  the  fact 
royal  house  with  a high-priest.  On  tills  occasion  it  j that  the  Septuag.  renders  nTP  by  o Kuoioc,  like  "3  ”18; 


810 


JEHOVAH 


JEHOVAH 

and  even  the  Samaritans  observed  the  same  custom,  for 
they  used  to  pronounce  by  the  word  Shima, 

i.  e.  Tiiti  name  (Reland,  De  Samuritanis,  p.  12;  Hunt- 
ington, Letters,  p.  33).  (See,  on  this  subject  generally, 
Hadr.  lielaiul,  Decas  exereitationum  philol.  de  ter  apron, 
nominis  Jehova  [Traj.  ad  Klien.  1707]). 

II.  True  Pointing  of  the  Word.— Maimonides  ( More 
Kehochim , i,  02)  gives  an  obscure  account  of  the  tradi- 
tional and  secret  method  of  teaching  its  true  pronuncia- 
tion to  the  priests,  but  avers  that  it  was  unknown  from 
its  form.  Many  adduce  the  statements  of  Greek  writ- 
ers, as  well  profane  as  Church  fathers,  that  the  deity  of 
the  Hebrews  was  called  Jao,  IA£2  (a  few  \tvio,  laov), 
Theodoret  alone  adding  that  the  Samaritan  pronuncia- 
tion was  I ABE  (Diod.  Sic.i,  94;  Porphyry  in  Eusebius, 
Prtep.  Ev.  x,  11;  Tzetzes,  Chiliad,  vii,  120;  Ilesycliius 
often;  Clemens  Alex.  Strom,  v,  p.  GOG,  Oxon. ; Origen, 
in  Dan.  vol.  ii,  p.  45 ; Irenams,  Uteres,  ii,  GG ; Jerome,  in 
Psa.viii;  Theodoret,  Qucest.  15  in  Exod.;  Epiphanius, 
liter,  xx).  The  Gnostics  classed  lata,  as  the  Hebrew 
divinity,  among  their  sacred  emanations  (Irenams,  i,  34 ; 
Epiph.  liter.  20),  along  with  several  of  his  appellations 
(see  Mather,  Ilistoire  du  Gnosticisme , tab.  8-10;  Beller- 
mann,  Ether  die  Gemmen  der  Alten  wit  tlem  Abrax- 
ashilde , fasc.  i,  ii,  Berlin,  1817,  1818);  and  that  famous 
oracle  of  Apollo,  quoted  by  Macrobins  (Sat.  i,  18),  as- 
cribing this  name  (Tatu)  to  the  sun,  appears  to  have 
been  of  Gnostic  origin  (Jablonski,  Pantk.  yEgypt.  i,  250 
sq.). 

Hence  many  recent  writers  have  followed  the  opinion 
of  those  who  think  that  the  word  in  question  was  orig- 
inally pronounced  niPP,  Yahvoh corresponding  to  the 
Greek  ’law.  But  this  view,  as  tvell  as  that  which 
maintains  the  correctness  of  the  common  pointing  FilPP 
(Michaelis,  Supplem.  p.  524;  Meyer,  Blotter  f ar  hbhere 
Wahrheit,  xi,  p.  30G),  is  opposed  to  the  fact  that  verbs 
of  the  class  (PI  b)  from  which  this  word  appears  to  be 
derived  do  not  admit  such  a pointing  (Cholem)  with 
their  second  radical.  Moreover,  the  simple  letters  niFP 
would  naturally  be  pronounced  Jao  by  a Greek  without 
any  special  pointing.  Those,  therefore,  appear  to  have 
the  best  reason  who  prefer  the  pointing  1T1PP,  Yahveh' 
(not  Pi' PP,  Yahaveh',  for  the  first  Pi  being  a mappik-he 
[as  seen  in  the  form  Pi11,  kindred  sum , esse]  does  not 
take  the  compound  Sheva),  as  being  at  once  agreeable 
to  the  laws  of  Hebrew  vocalization,  and  a form  from 
which  all  the  Greek  modes  of  writing  (including  the 
Samaritan,  as  cited  by  Theodoret)  may  naturally  have 
sprung  (■'=!,  1 = o as  a “mater  leetionis,”  and  PI  being 
silent;  thus  leaving  a as  the  representative  of  the  first 
vowel).  From  this,  too,  the  apoeapated  forms  1PP  and 
PP  may  most  readily  be  derived;  and  it  is  further  cor- 
roborated by  the  etymology.  Ewald  was  the  first  who 
used  in  all  his  writings,  especially  in  his  translations 
from  the  O.-T.  Scriptures,  the  form  Jttlive,  although  in 
his  youth  he  had  taken  ground  in  favor  of  Jehovah 
(comp,  his  Et  her  d.  Composition  der  Genesis,  Brunswick, 
1823).  Another  defender  of  Jahveh  was  Ilengstenberg 
(Beitrdge.  zur  Einleit.  ins  A.  T.  Berlin,  1831-39,  vol.  ii). 
Strongest  in  defence  of  Jehovah  is,  among  prominent 
German  theologians,  Ilolemann,  Bibelstudien  (Leipzig, 
1859-00),  vol.  i. 

IH.  Proper  Signification  of  the  Term. — A clew  to  the 
real  import  of  this  name  appears  to  be  designedly  fur- 
nished in  the  passage  where  it  is  most  distinctively  as- 
cribed to  the  God  of  the  Hebrews,  Exod.  iii,  14:  “And 
God  said  to  Moses,  I shall  he  what  I shall  he  (PPIlX 
aild  he  said,  Thus  slialt  thou  say  to  the 
children  of  Israel,  The  I shale  be  has  sent  me  to  you ” 
(where  the  Sept,  and  later  versions  attempt  to  render 
the  spirit  of  the  Hebrew  PPHX  by  b wr,  the  Venetian 
Greek  barbarously  ?)  ovribriig,  Vulg.  qui  sum,  A.  Vers. 
“I  am”).  Here  the  Almighty  makes  known  his  un- 


changeable character,  implied  in  his  eternal  self-exist- 
ence, as  the  ground  of  confidence  for  the  oppressed  Isra- 
elites to  trust  in  his  promises  of  deliverance  and  care 
respecting  them.  The  same  idea  is  elsewhere  alluded 
to  in  the  Old  Test.,  e.  g.  Mai.  iii,  6,  “ I am  Jehovah ; I 
change  not;”  IIos.  xii,  6,  “Jehovah  is  his  memento.” 
The  same  attribute  is  referred  to  in  the  description  of 
the  divine  Redeemer  in  the  Apocalypse  (Rev.  i,  4,  8, 

6 wv  kcu  v gv  Kai  b ipxoptvog,  a phrase  used  indecli- 
nably,  with  designed  identification  with  Jehovah,  see 
Stuart,  Commentary,  adloc.),  with  which  has  been  aptly 
compared  the  famous  inscription  on  the  Saitic  temple 
of  Isis  (’Eyw  ei pi  to  ytyovbg  Kai  or  Kai  ioaptvov,  Plu- 
tarch, De  Isid.  et  Osir.  9),  and  various  parallel  titles  of 
heathen  mythology,  especially  among  Eastern  nations. 
Those,  however,  who  compare  the  Greek  and  Roman  de- 
ities, Jupiter,  Jove,  Aidf,  etc.,  or  who  seek  an  Egyptian 
origin  for  the  name,  are  entirely  in  error  (see  Tholuck’s 
treatise  trails!,  in  the  Bih.  Repos.  1834.  p.  89  sq.;  Heng- 
stenberg,  Genuineness  of  the  Pentateuch,  i,  213 ; for  other 
Shemitic  etymologies,  see  Fiirst,  s.  v.).  Nor  are  those 
(as  A.  MAYhorter,  in  the  Bibliotheca  Sacra,  Jan.  1857, 
who  appears  to  have  borrowed  his  idea  from  the  Journ. 
of  Sac.  Lit.  Jan.  1854,  p.  393  sq. ; see  Tyler,  Jehovah  the 
Redeemer,  Lond.  18GI)  entirely  correct  (see  F first's  Ileh. 
Worterb.  s.  v.)  who  regard  FllPP  as  = Pirn,  and  this  as 
the  actual  fut.  Kai  of  the  verb  PI1PI  = PPln,  and  so  ren- 
der it  directly  he  shall  be,  i.  e.  lie  that  shall  be;  since 
this  form,  if  a verb  at  all,  would  be  in  the  Hipliil  (see 
Koppe  ad  Exod.  loc.,  in  Pottii  Syll.  iv,  p.  59 ; Bolden, 
ad  Gen.  p.  103;  Vatke,  Theolog.  Bib/,  p.  G71)  and  would 
signify  he  that  shall  cause  to  be, i.  e.  the  Creator;  for  the 
real  fut.  Kai  is  FPFP,  Yihyeh as  frequently  occurs. 
It  is  rather  a denominative,  i.  e.  noun  or  adj.,  formed  by 
the  prepositive  ^ prefixed  to  the  verb-root,  and  pointed 
like  Si?  3?  and  other  nouns  of  similar  formation  (Nord- 
heimer’s  I lehr.  Gram.  § 512;  Lee’s  I lehr.  Gram.  § 159). 
The  word  will  thus  signify  the  Existent,  and  designate 
one  of  the  most  important  attributes  of  Deity,  one  that 
appears  to  include  all  other  essential  ideas. — Gcsenius. 

IV.  Application  of  the  Title.  — The  supreme  Deity 
and  national  God  of  the  Hebrews  is  called  in  the  O.  T. 
by  his  own  name  Jehovah,  and  by  the  appellative  Elo- 
ium,  i.  e.  God,  either  promiscuously,  or  so  that  one  or 
the  other  predominates  according  to  the  nature  of  the 
context  or  the  custom  of  the  writer.  Jehovah  Elohim, 
commonly  rendered  the  “Lord  God,”  is  used  by  apposi- 
tion, and  not,  as  some  would  have  it,  Jehovah  of  gods, 
i.  e.  chief  or  prince  of  gods.  This  is  the  customary  ap- 
pellation of  Jehovah  in  Gen.  ii  and  iii;  Exod.  ix,  30, 
etc.  Far  more  frequent  is  the  compounded  form  when 
followed  by  a genitive,  as  “Jehovah  God  of  Israel” 
(Josh,  vii,  13;  viii,  30);  “Jehovah  God  of  thy  fathers” 
(Deut.  i,  21 ; vi,  3);  “Jehovah  God,  thy  God”  (Deut.  i, 
31;  ii,  7);  “Jehovah  of  hosts,”  i.  e.  of  the  celestial  ar- 
mies. .See  Host. 

It  will  be  evident  to  the  attentive  reader  that  the 
term  Lord,  so  frequently  applied  to  Christ  in  t he  N.  T., 
is  generally  synonymous  with  Jehovah  in  the  Old  Test. 
As  Christ  is  ealled  “The  Alpha  and  Omega,  the  be- 
ginning and  the  ending,  which  is,  and  which  was,  and 
which  is  to  come,  the  Almighty ;”  and  also,  “of  him  it 
is  said,  Jesus  Christ,  the  same  yesterday,  to-day.  and 
forever;”  he  must  be  Jehovah,  the  eternally  existing 
and  supreme  God  (Psa.  eii,  25-27;  Ileb.  i,  10-12;  xiii, 
8;  Rev.  i,  4,  8).  See  Logos.  Jah  (PP,  Yah,  Sept.  Kr- 
ptog,  Auth.Vers.  “Lord,”  except  in  Psa.  lxviii,  4)  is  a 
poetic  form  abbreviated  from  Jehovah,  or  perhaps  from 
the  more  ancient  pronunciation  Jahveh.  It  is  chiefly 
employed  in  certain  customary  formulas  or  refrains  (as 
a proper  title  in  Psa.lxxxix, 9;  xeiv,  7, 12;  Isa. xxxviii, 
1 1 ; Exod.  xv,  2 ; Psa.  exviii,  4 ; Isa.  xii,  2 ; Psa.  lxviii, 
5;  Isa.  xxvi,  4).  This,  as  well  as  a modification  of  Je- 
hovah, frequently  occurs  in  proper  names.  See  Hal- 

LELUJAH. 


JEHOYAII- J I R EH 


811 


JEHU 


It  should  be  remembered  that  the  Hebrew  name  Je-  ' 
kovak  is  generally  rendered,  in  the  English  version,  by 
the  word  Lord  (sometimes  Gon),  and  printed  in  small 
capitals,  to  distinguish  it  from  the  rendering  of  ■’3‘IX 
and  K vpiog  by  the  same  word;  it  is  rendered  “Jeho- 
vah” only  in  Exod.  vi,  3;  Psa.  Ixxxiii,  IS;  Isa.  xii,  2; 
xxvi,  4,  and  in  the  compound  proper  names  following. 

VI.  Literature. — For  a full  discussion  of  the  questions 
connected  with  this  sacred  name,  see,  in  addition  to  the 
above-cited  works,  Gataker,  De  nom.  Dei  tetragram .,  in 
his  Opp.  Crit.  (Traj.  ad  Bhen.  1(598) ; Meier,  Lectio  nom. 
tetragram.  exam.  (Viterbo,  1725);  Capellus,  Or.  de  nom. 
Jekova,  in  his  Critica  Sac.  p.  690  ; Crusius,  Comment,  de 
nominis  tetragram.  signif.  (Lips.  1758);  Malani,  De  Dei 
nom.juxta  Heb.  comment,  crit.  (Lucca\  1767) ; Koppc,  In- 
terpret at.  formulee,  etc.  (Gottingen,  1783),  and  in  Pott’s 
Sglloge,  iv,  50-66 ; Eichhorn,  Hiblioth.  v,  556-560;  Wahl, 
D.Xamen  Gottes  Jehova,  excurs.  i to  his  Ilabbukuk;  J.  I). 
Michaclis,  De  Jehova  ab  xEgyptiis  culto,  etc.,  in  his  Zerst. 
hi.  Schrift.  (Jena,  1795) ; Brendel,  War  Jehova  bei  den 
Ileb.  bloss  ein  Xationalgott ? (Landsb.  1821)  [see  Theol. 
Annul,  for  1822,  p.  384]  ; R.  Abr.  ben-Ezra,  Sepher  Ilas- 
shem,  mit  Comm,  by  Lippmann  (Fulda,  1834) ; Landauer, 
Jehova  u.Elohim  (Stuttg.  1836);  Gambier,  Titles  of  Je- 
hovah (London,  1853);  De  Burgos,  De  nomine  tetragrum- 
mato  (Frankf.  1604;  Amsterd.  1634);  Fischer,  id.  (Tub. 
1717);  Jahn,  De  nii"P  (Wittenb.  1755);  Rafael  ben- 
David,  r^^rn  (Venice,  1662) ; Reineccius,  De  Him 
(Leipz.  1695-6) ; Snoilshik,  id.  (Wittenb.  1621) ; Ste- 
pliani,  id.  (Leips.  1677) ; Sylburg,  De  Jehova  (Strasburg, 
1643);  Volkmar,  De  nominibus  dir  inis  (Wittenb.  1679) ; 
Koehler,  De  pronunciatione  et  vi  STTP  (Erlangen,  1867) ; 
Kurtz,  Hist,  of  the  Old  Covenant,  i,  18  sq. ; ii,  98,  215. 
See  Eloiiim. 

Jeho'vah-ji'reh  (Hebrew  Yehovah'  Yireh',  SliPP 
fiX-P,  Jehovah  will  see,  i.  e.  provide ; Sept.  Kf'piog  tldtv, 
Vulg.  Dominus  ridet),  the  symbolical  epithet  given  by 
Abraham  to  the  scene  of  his  offering  of  the  ram  provi- 
dentially supplied  in  place  of  his  son  (Gen.  xxii,  14), 
evidently  with  allusion  to  his  own  reply  to  Isaac’s  in- 
quiry (verse  8).  See  Moriah. 

Jeho'vah-nis'si  (Hebrew  Yehovah ' Xissi',  PPPP 
Jehovah  is  mg  banner;  Septuag.  K up  toe;  Karatpoy)) 
pov,  Vulg.  Dominus  exaltatio  mea) , the  symbolical  title 
bestowed  by  Moses  upon  the  altar  which  he  erected  on 
the  hill  where  his  uplifted  hands  in  prayer  had  caused 
Israel  to  prevail,  stated  in  the  text  to  have  been  intend- 
ed as  a memento  of  God’s  purpose  to  exterminate  the 
Amalekites  (Exod.  xvii,  15).  See  Repiudim.  The 
phraseology  in  the  original  is  peculiar:  “For  [the]  hand 
[is]  on  [the]  throne  (02,  ? read  C3,  banner)  of  Jah,” 
which  the  A.  V.  glosses,  “ Because  the  Lord  hath  sworn,” 
q.  d.  lifted  up  his  hand.  See  Oath  ; Hand.  “ The 
significance  of  the  name  is  probably  contained  in  the 
allusion  to  the  staff  which  Moses  held  in  his  hand  as  a 
banner  during  the  engagement,  and  the  raising  or  low- 
ering of  which  turned  the  fortune  of  battle  iu  favor  of 
the  Israelites  or  their  enemies.  God  is  thus  recognised 
in  the  memorial-altar  as  the  deliverer  of  his  people,  who 
leads  them  to  victory,  and  is  their  rallving-point  in  time 
of  peril.  On  the  figurative  use  of ‘banner,’  see  Psa.  lx, 
4;  Isa.  xi,  10”  (Smith).  See  Banner. 

J eho'vah-sha'lom  (Hebrew  Yehovah'  Shalom', 
C'V.2  nirP,  Jehovah  gives  peace,  i.  e.  prosperity ; Sept. 
Elpt)vr}  Kvpiov,  Vulgate  Domini  pax),  the  appellation 
given  by  Gideon  to  an  altar  erected  by  him  on  the  spot 
where  the  divine  angel  appeared  to  him  and  wrought 
the  miracles  which  confirmed  his  mission;  in  commem- 
oration of  the  success  thus  betokened  to  him  (“  Peace 
be  unto  thee”) ; stated  to  have  been  extant  at  a late  day 
in  Ophrah  (Judg.  vi,  24).  (See  Critici  Sam,  ii,  949; 
Balthasar,  De  Altari  Gideonis,  Grvph.  1746.)  See  Gid- 
eon. 

Jelio'vah-sliam'mah  (Heb.  Yehovah'  Sham' mah, 


HTP,  Jehovah  is  there;  Sept.  Kvptoc  (kh, Vulg. 
Dominus  ibidem,  Auth.  Vers.  “The  Lord  is  there”),  the 
symbolical  title  conferred  by  Ezekiel  upon  the  spiritual 
representation  of  Jerusalam  seen  by  him  in  his  vision 
(Ezck.  xlviii,  35)  ; under  a figure  evidently  of  like  im- 
port with  the  description  of  the  new  Jerusalem  in  the 
Apocalypse  (Rev.  xxi,  3 ; xxii,  3).  In  the  Old-Test, 
prophecy  it  appears  to  have  been  a type  of  the  Gospel 
Church  (comp.  Immanuel),  probably  through  a prima- 
ry reference  to  the  restoration  of  the  Jewish  metropolis 
after  the  Exile,  and  perhaps  of  the  recovery  of  the  Jews 
to  Christianity,  whereas  the  N.-T.  seer  carries  forward 
the  symbol  to  the  heavenly  abode  of  the  saints  (comp. 
Jer.  xxxiii,  16). 

Jeho'vah-tsicPkenu  (Heb.  Yehovah'  Tsidke’nu, 
rvrP,  Jehovah  is  our  righteousness,  i.  e.  deliver- 
er, see  Gesenius,  Thes.  Heb.  p.  1151,  b;  Sept.  Kopioc  cV 
Kaiaauvg  ijpiov,  but  Kvpiog‘  ’ItootCtK  in  Jer.  xxiii,  6; 
Vulg.  Dominus  justus  noster ; Auth.  Vers.  “ The  Lord  our 
righteousness”),  an  epithet  applied  by  the  prophet  to 
the  Messiah  (Jer.  xxiii,  6),  and  likewise  to  Jerusalem 
(Jer.  xxiii,  16),  as  symbolical  of  the  spiritual  prosperity 
of  God’s  people  in  the  Christian  dispensation.  (See 
Clarke’s  Comment,  on  the  passages.)  By  some,  the  epi- 
thet in  the  former  passage,  at  least,  is  regarded  as  as- 
cribing to  the  Messiah  the  name  Jehovah,  and  assert- 
ing that  he  is  or  brings  righteousness  to  man  (Smith’s 
Scripture  Testimony  to  the  Messiah , i,  271, 4th  ed. ; Hen- 
derson’s note  on  the  passage;  Alexander's  Connection 
and  Harmony  of  the  O.and  X.  T.  p.  287,  2d  ed.) ; while 
others  think  that  the  appellation  here  given  to  the  Mes- 
siah is,  like  that  given  by  Moses  to  the  altar  he  erected, 
and  which  he  called  Jehovah -nissi,  simply  a concise 
utterance  of  the  faith  of  Israel,  that  by  means  of  the 
Messiah  God  will  cause  righteousness  to  flourish  (Heng- 
stenberg’s  Christology,  ii,  417).  The  strongest  argu- 
ment in  favor  of  the  latter  is  derived  from  Jer.  xxxiii, 
16,  where  the  same  name  is  given  to  the  city  of  Jerusa- 
lem. and  where  it  can  only  receive  such  an  explanation. 

Jehoz'abad  (Ileb.  Yehozabad',  ‘iTprP,  Jehovah- 
given;  Sept.  ’lioZaftdc,  but  Tai£«/3i£  in  2 Chron.  xxiv, 
26),  the  name  of  three  men.  See  also  Jozabad. 

1.  The  second  son  of  Obed-edom  (q.  v.),  the  Levitical 
gate-keeper  of  the  Temple  (l  Chron.  xxvi,  4).  B.C. 
1014. 

2.  The  last-named  of  Jehoshaphat’s  generals  (Jose- 
phus 'Oyd/3tirot',  Ant.  viii,  15,  2)  in  command  of  (?) 
180,000  troops  (2  Chron.  xvii,  18).  B.C.  fir.  910. 

3.  Son  of  Shomer  (or  Shimrith,  a Moabites*),  one  of 
the  two  servants  who  assassinated  king  Jelioash  of  Ju- 
dah in  that  part  of  the  city  of  Jerusalem  called  Millo  (2 
Kings  xii,  21 ; 2 Chron.  xxiv,  26).  B.C.  837. 

Jehoz'adak  (Ileb.  Yehotsadak',  p"!2*!"P,  Jeho- 
vah-justified; Sept.  ; Auth.  Vers.  “Josedech” 

in  Hag.  and  Zecli.),  also  in  the  contracted  form  Joza- 
dak  (p*T2’P,  Yotsadak',  in  Ezra  and  Xch. ; Sept.  Tw- 
oectK),  the  son  of  the  high-priest  Seraiah  at  the  time 
of  the  Babylonian  captivity  (1  Chron.  vi.  14,  15).  Al- 
though lie  succeeded  to  the  liigh-priesthood  after  the 
slaughter  of  his  father  at  Biblah  (2  Kings  xxv,  18-21), 
he  had  no  opportunity  of  performing  the  functions  of 
his  office  (Sclden,  De  success,  in  Pont,  in  Opp.  ii,  104). 
He  was  carried  into  captivity  by  Neduchadnezzar  (1 
Chron.  vi,  15),  and  evidently  died  in  exile,  as.  on  the 
return  from  the  captivity,  his  son  Joshua  was  the  first 
high-priest  who  ofliciated  (Hag.  i,  1,  12,  14;  ii,  2,  4; 
Zech.  vi,  11 : Ezra  iii,  2,  8;  v,  2;  x,  18;  Neh.  xii,  26). 
B.C.  588.  See  11igh-priest. 

Je'hu  (Heb.  Yehn',  X*iT\  according  to  Gesenius  for 
S<?trp“7,  i.  q.  XJirrrP,  Jehovah  is  He;  but  according 
to  Fiirst  from  X*P|  — !"Pn,  to  live,  q.  d.  the  living;  Sept. 
’Ion,  ’h]ov,  but  T ovea  in  Hos.  i,  4),  the  name  of  five 
men. 


JEHU 


jeiiu  812 


1.  Son  of  Obcd  and  father  of  Azariah,  of  the  tribe  of 
Judah  (1  Chron.  ii,  38).  B.C.  post.  1612. 

2.  An  Antothite,  one  of  the  Benjamite  slingers  that 
joined  David’s  band  at  Ziklag  (1  Chron.  xii,  3).  B.C. 
1055. 

3.  The  son  of  Hanani,  a prophet  (Josephus  Itjovq, 
Ant,  viii,  12,  3)  of  Judah,  but  whose  ministrations  were 
chiefly  directed  to  Israel.  His  father  was  probably  the 
seer  who  suffered  for  having  rebuked  Asa  (2  Chron. 
xvi,  7).  He  must  have  begun  his  career  as  a prophet 
when  very  young.  He  first  denounced  upon  Baasha, 
king  of  Israel,  and  his  house  the  same  awful  doom  which 
had  been  already  executed  upon  the  house  of  Jeroboam 
(1  Kings  xvi,  1,7);  a sentence  which  was  literally  ful- 
filled (ver.  12).  The  same  prophet  was,  many  years 
after,  commissioned  to  reprove  Jehoshaphat  for  his  dan- 
gerous connection  with  the  house  of  Ahab  (2  Chron. 
xix,  2).  He  appears  to  have  been  the  public  chronicler 
during  the  entire  reign  of  Jehoshaphat,  and  a volume 
of  his  records  is  expressly  referred  to  (2  Chron.  xx,  34). 
B.C.  928-886. 

4.  The  eleventh  king  of  the  separate  throne  of  Israel 
(Josephus  ’D/oue,  Ant.  viii,  13,  7),  and  founder  of  its 
fourth  dynasty;  he  reigned  twenty-eight  years,  B.C. 
883-855  (2  Kings  ix,  x;  2 Chron.  xxii,  7-9).  Ilis  his- 
tory was  told  in  the  lost  “Chronicles  of  the  Kings  of 
Israel”  (2  Kings  x,  84).  His  father’s  name  was  Jehosh- 
aphat (2  Kings  ix,  2) ; his  grandfather’s  (which,  as  be- 
ing better  known,  was  sometimes  affixed  to  his  own — 2 
Kings  ix)  was  Nimshi.  In  his  youth  he  had  been  one 
of  the  guards  of  Ahab.  His  first  appearance  in  history 
is  when,  with  a comrade  in  arms,  Bidkar,  or  Bar-Dakar 
(Epliraem  Svrus,  Opp.  iv,  540),  he  rode  (either  in  a sep- 
arate chariot,  Sept.,  or  on  the  same  seat,  Josephus)  be- 
hind Ahab  on  the  fatal  journey  from  Samaria  to  Jez- 
reel,  and  heard,  and  laid  up  in  his  heart,  the  warning 
of  Elijah  against  the  murderer  of  Naboth  (2  Kings  ix, 
25).  But  he  had  already,  as  it  would  seem,  been  known 
to  Elijah  as  a youth  of  promise,  and,  accordingly,  in  the 
vision  at  Horeb  he  is  mentioned  as  the  future  king  of 
Israel,  whom  Elijah  is  to  anoint  as  the  minister  of  ven- 
geance on  Israel  (1  Kings  xix,  16, 17).  This  injunction, 
for  reasons  unknown  to  us,  Elijah  never  fulfilled.  It 
was  reserved  long  afterwards  for  his  successor  Elisha. 
See  Ahab. 

Jehu  meantime,  in  the  reigns  of  Ahaziah  and  Jeho- 
ram,  had  risen  to  importance.  The  same  activity  and 
vehemence  which  had  fitted  him  for  his  earlier  distinc- 
tions still  continued,  and  he  was  known  far  and  wide  as 
a charioteer  whose  rapid  driving,  as  if  of  a madman  (2 
Kings  ix,  21),  could  be  distinguished  even  from  a dis- 
tance. Accordingly,  in  the  reign  of  Jehoram,  Jehu 
held  a command  in  the  Israelitish  army  posted  at  Ita- 
moth-gilead  to  hold  in  check  the  Syrians,  who  of  late 
years  had  made  strenuous  efforts  to  extend  their  fron- 
tier to  the  Jordan,  and  had  possessed  themselves  of 
much  of  the  territory  of  the  Israelites  east,  of  that  river. 
The  contest  was,  in  fact,  still  carried  on  which  had  begun 
many  years  before  in  the  reign  of  Ahab,  Jelioram’s  fa- 
ther, who  had  lost  his  life  in  battle  before  this  very  11a- 
moth-gilead.  Ahaziah,  king  of  Judah,  had  taken  part 
with  Jehoram,  king  of  Israel,  in  this  war;  and  as  the 
latter  had  been  severely  wounded  in  a recent  action, 
and  had  gone  to  Jezreel  to  be  healed  of  his  wounds, 
Ahaziah  had  also  gone  thither  on  a visit  of  sympathy  to 
him  (2  Kings  viii,  28,  29).  B.C.  883.  According  to 
Epliraem  Syrus  (who  omits  the  words  “saith  the  Lord” 
in  2 Kings  ix,  26,  and  makes  “ 1”  refer  to  Jehn),  he  had, 
in  a dream  the  night  before,  seen  the  blood  of  Naboth 
and  his  sons  (Ephr.  Syr.  Opp.  iv,  540).  In  this  state  of 
affairs,  a council  of  war  was  held  among  the  military 
commanders  in  camp,  when,  very  unexpectedly,  a youth 
of  wild  appearance  (2  Kings  ix,  11),  known  by  his  garb  i 
to  he  one  of  the  disciples  of  the  prophets,  appeared  at  [ 
the  door  of  the  tent,  and  called  forth  Jehu,  declaring 
that  he  had  a message  to  deliver  to  him  (2  Kings  ix,  1- 
5).  They  retired  into  a secret  chamber.  The  youth 


uncovered  a vial  of  the  sacred  oil  (Josephus,  Ant.  ix,  6, 
1)  which  he  had  brought  with  him,  poured  it  over 
Jehu’s  head,  and  after  announcing  to  him  the  message 
from  Elisha,  that  he  was  appointed  to  be  king  of  Israel 
and  destroyer  of  the  house  of  Ahab,  rushed  out  of  the 
house  and  disappeared  (2  Kings  ix,  7,  8).  Surprising 
as  this  message  must  have  been,  and  awful  the  duty 
which  it  imposed,  Jehu  was  fully  equal  to  the  task  and 
the  occasion.  He  returned  to  the  council,  probably  with 
an  altered  air,  for  he  was  asked  what  had  been  the  com- 
munication of  the  young  prophet  to  him.  He  tried  at 
first  to  evade  their  questions,  but  then  revealed  the  sit- 
uation in  which  he  had  found  himself  placed  by  the 
prophetic  call.  In  a moment  the  enthusiasm  of  the 
army  took  fire.  They  threw  their  garments — the  large 
square  beged , similar  to  a wrapper  or  plaid — under  his 
feet,  so  as  to  form  a rough  carpet  of  state,  placed  him 
on  the  top  of  the  stairs  (q.  v.),  as  on  an  extempore 
throne,  blew  the  royal  salute  on  their  trumpets,  and 
thus  ordained  him  king  (2  Kings  ix,  1 1-14).  Jehu  was 
not  a man  to  lose  any  advantage  through  remissness. 
He  immediately  cut  off  all  communication  between  Ka- 
moth-gilcad  and  Jezreel,  and  then  set  off  at  full  speed 
with  his  ancient  comrade  Bidkar,  whom  he  made  captain 
of  the  host  in  his  place,  and  a band  of  horsemen.  From 
the  tower  of  Jezreel  a watchman  saw  the  cloud  of  dust 
raised  by  the  advancing  party,  and  announced  his  com- 
ing (2  Kings  ix,  17).  The  messengers  that  were  sent 
out  to  him  he  detained,  on  the  same  principle  of  secrecy 
which  had  guided  all  his  movements.  It  was  not  till 
lie  had  almost  reached  the  city,  and  was  identified  by 
the  watchman,  that  apprehension  was  felt.  But  even 
then  it  seems  as  if  the  two  kings  in  Jezreel  anticipated 
news  from  the  Syrian  war  rather  than  a revolution  at 
home.  Jehoram  went  forth  himself  to  meet  him,  and 
was  accompanied  by  the  king  of  Jndali.  They  met  in 
the  field  of  Naboth,  so  fatal  to  the  house  of  Ahab.  The 
king  saluted  him  with  the  question,  “Is  it  peace,  Jehu?’7 
and  received  the  answer,  “ What  peace,  so  long  as  the 
whoredoms  (idolatries)  of  thy  mother  Jezebel  and  her 
witchcrafts  are  so  many?”  This  completely  opened  the 
eyes  of  Jehoram,  who  exclaimed  to  the  king  of  Judah, 
“There  is  treachery.  O Ahaziah!”  and  turned  to  flee. 
But  Jehu  felt  no  infirmity  of  purpose,  and  knew  that 
the  slightest  wavering  might  be  fatal  to  him.  He 
therefore  seized  his  opportunity,  and  taking  full  aim  at 
Jehoram,  with  the  bow  which,  as  captain  of  the  host, 
was  always  with  him,  shot  him  through  the  heart  (2 
Kings  ix,  24).  Jehu  caused  the  body  to  be  thrown 
back  into  the  field  of  Nabotli,  out  of  which  he  had  pass- 
ed in  his  attempt  at  flight,  and  grimly  remarked  to 
Bidkar,  his  captain,  “ Bemember  how  that,  when  I and 
thou  rode  together  after  Ahab  his  father,  the  Lord  laid 
this  burden  upon  him.”  The  king  of  Jiulah  endeavored 
to  escape,  hut  Jehu’s  soldiers  pursued  and  inflicted  upon 
him  at  Beth-gan  (A.  V.  “ the  garden-house”),  probably 
Engannim,  a wound  of  which  he  afterwards  died  at 
Megiddo.  See  Ahaziah.  Jehu  himself  entered  the 
city,  whither  the  news  of  this  transaction  had  already 
preceded  him.  As  he  passed  under  the  walls  of  the  pal- 
ace, Jezebel  herself,  studiously  arrayed  for  effect,  appear- 
ed at  one  of  the  windows,  and  saluted  him  with  a ques- 
tion such  as  might  have  shaken  a man  of  weaker  nerves, 
“Had  Zimri  peace,  who  slew  his  master?”  But  Jehu 
was  unmoved,  and,  instead  of  answering  her,  called  out, 
“Who  is  on  my  side— who?”  when  several  eunuchs 
made  their  appearance  at  the  window,  to  whom  he 
cried,  “ Throw  her  down !”  and  immediately  this  proud 
and  guilty  woman  lay  a blood-stained  corpse  in  the 
road,  and  was  trodden  under  foot  by  the  horses.  See 
Jkzkbel.  Jehu  then  went  in  and  took  possession  of  the 
palace  (2  Kings  ix,  16-37).  He.  was  now  master  of 
Jezreel,  which  was,  next  to  Samaria,  the  chief  town  of 
the  kingdom ; but  he  could  not  feel  secure  while  the 
capital  itself  was  in  the  hands  of  the  royal  family,  and 
of  those  who  might  be  supposed  to  feel  strong  attach- 
ment to  the  house  of  Ahab.  The  force  of  the  blow 


JEHU 


813 


JEHU 


whicli  he  had  struck  was,  however,  felt  even  in  Sama- 
ria. When,  therefore,  he  wrote  to  the  persons  in  au- 
thority there  the  somewhat  ironical  but  designedly  in- 
timidating counsel,  to  set  up  one  of  the  young  princes 
in  Samaria  as  king  and  tight  out  the  matter  which  lay 
between  them,  they  sent  a very  submissive  answer,  giv- 
ing in  their  adhesion,  and  professing  their  readiness  to 
obey  in  all  things  his  commands.  A second  letter  from 
Jehu  tested  this  profession  in  a truly  horrid  and  ex- 
ceedingly Oriental  manner,  requiring  them  to  appear 
before  him  on  the  morrow,  bringing  with  them  the 
heads  of  all  the  royal  princes  in  Samaria.  A fallen 
house  meets  with  little  pity  in  the  East;  and  when  the 
new  king  left  his  palace  the  next  morning,  he  found 
seventy  human  heads  piled  up  in  two  heaps  at  his  gate. 
There,  in  the  sight  of  these  heaps,  Jehu  took  occasion 
to  explain  his  conduct,  declaring  that  he  must  be  re- 
garded as  the  appointed  minister  of  the  divine  decrees, 
pronounced  long  since  against  the  house  of  Aliab  by  the 
prophets,  not  one  of  whose  words  should  fall  to  the 
ground.  He  then  continued  his  proscriptions  by  exter- 
minating in  Jezreel  not  only  all  in  whose  veins  the  blood 
of  the  condemned  race  flowed,  but  also — by  a considera- 
ble stretch  of  his  commission — those  officers,  ministers, 
ami  creatures  of  the  late  government  who,  if  suffered 
to  live,  would  most  likely  be  disturbers  of  his  own  reign. 
He  next  proceeded  to  Samaria.  So  rapid  had  been 
these  proceedings,  that  on  his  way,  at  “ the  shearing- 
house”  (or  Betheked),  he  encountered  forty-two  sons  or 
nephews  (2  Chron.  xx,  8)  of  the  late  king  of  Judah, 
and  therefore  connected  by  marriage  with  Aliab,  on  a 
visit  of  compliment  to  their  relatives,  of  whose  fall, 
seemingly,  they  had  not  heard.  These  also  were  put 
to  the  sword  at  the  fatal  well,  as,  in  the  later  history, 
of  Mizpali,  and,  in  our  own  days,  of  Cawnpore  (2  Kings 
x,  14).  (See  Ivitto’s  Daily  Bible  Must,  ad  loc.)  As  he 
drove  on  he  encountered  a strange  figure,  such  as  might 
have  reminded  him  of  the  great  Elijah.  It  was  Jehon- 
adab,  the  austere  Arab  sectary,  the  son  of  Rechab.  In 
him  his  keen  eye  discovered  a ready  ally.  The  austere 
virtue  and  respected  character  of  the  Rcchabite  would, 
as  lie  felt,  go  far  to  hallow  his  proceedings  in  the  eyes 
of  the  multitude.  He  took  him  into  his  chariot,  and 
they  concocted  their  schemes  as  they  entered  Samaria 
(2  Kings  x,  15, 16).  See  Jehoxadab.  In  that  capital 
Jehn  continued  the  extirpation  of  the  persons  more  in- 
timately connected  with  the  late  government.  This, 
far  from  being  in  any  way  singular,  is  a common  cir- 
cumstance in  Eastern  revolutions.  But  the  great  stroke 
was  yet  to  conic;  and  it  was  conceived  and  executed 
with  that  union  of  intrepid  daring  and  profound  secrecy 
which  marks  the  whole  career  of  Jehu.  His  main  ob- 
ject was  to  exterminate  the  ministers  and  more  devoted 
adherents  of  Baal,  who  had  been  so  much  encouraged 
by  Jezebel.  There  was  even  a temple  to  this  idol  in 
Samaria;  and  Jehu,  never  scrupulous  about  the  means 
of  reaching  objects  which  he  believed  to  be  good,  laid  a 
snare  by  which  he  hoped  to  cut  off  the  main  body  of 
Baal’s  ministers  at  one  blow.  He  professed  to  be  a 
more  zealous  servant  of  Baal  than  Ahab  had  been,  and 
proclaimed  a great  festival  in  his  honor,  at  which  none 
but  his  true  servants  were  to  be  present.  The  proph- 
ets, priests,  and  officers  of  Baal  assembled  from  all  parts 
for  this  great  sacrifice,  and  sacerdotal  vestments  were 
given  to  them,  that  none  of  Jehovah’s  worshippers 
might  be  taken  for  them.  Soldiers  were  posted  so  that 
none  might  escape.  The  vast  temple  at  Samaria  raised 
by  Aliab  (1  Kings  xvi,  32;  Josephus,  Ant.  x,  7,  6)  was 
crowded  from  end  to  end.  The  chief  sacrifice  was  of- 
fered, as  if  in  the  excess  of  his  zeal,  by  Jehu  himself. 
Jelionadab  joined  in  the  deception.  There  was  some 
apprehension  lest  worshippers  of  Jehovah  might  be 
foiuul  in  the  temple ; such,  it  seems,  had  been  the  inter- 
mixture of  the  two  religions.  As  soon,  however,  as  it 
was  ascertained  that  all,  and  none  but  the  idolaters  were 
there,  the  signal  was  given  to  eighty  trusted  guards, 
and  a sweeping  massacre  removed  at  one  blow  the  whole 


heathen  population  of  the  kingdom  of  Israel.  The  in- 
nermost sanctuary  of  the  temple  (translated  in  the  A. 
V.  “ the  city  of  the  house  of  Baal”)  was  stormed,  the 
great  stone  statue  of  Baal  was  demolished,  the  wooden 
figures  of  the  inferior  divinities  sitting  round  him  were 
torn  from  their  places  and  burnt  (Ewald,  Gesch.  iii,  526), 
and  the  site  of  the  sanctuary  itself  became  the  public 
resort  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  for  the  basest  uses 
(2  Kings  x). 

Notwithstanding  this  zeal  of  Jehu  in  exterminating 
the  grosser  idolatries  which  had  grown  up  under  his 
immediate  predecessors,  lie  was  not  prepared  to  subvert 
the  policy  which  had  led  Jeroboam  and  his  successors 
to  maintain  the  schismatic  establishment  of  the  golden 
calves  in  Dan  and  Beth-el.  See  Jekoboam.  This  was, 
however,  a crime  in  him — the  worship  rendered  to  the 
golden  calves  being  plainly  contrary  to  the  law ; and  he 
should  have  felt  that  he  who  had  appointed  him  to  the 
throne,  would  have  maintained  him  in  it,  notwithstand- 
ing the  apparent  dangers  which  might  seem  likely  to 
ensue  from  permitting  his  subjects  to  repair  at  the  great 
festivals  to  the  metropolis  of  the  rival  kingdom,  which 
was  the  centre  of  the  theocratical  worship  and  of  sacer- 
dotal service.  Here  Jehu  fell  short:  and  this  very  pol- 
icy, apparently  so  prudent  and  far-sighted,  by  which  he 
hoped  to  secure  the  stability  and  independence  of  his 
kingdom,  was  that  on  account  of  which  the  term  of  ride 
granted  to  his  dynasty  was  shortened.  For  this  it  was 
foretold  that  his  dynasty  should  extend  only  to  four 
generations;  and  for  this  the  divine  aid  was  withheld 
from  him  in  his  wars  with  the  Syrians  under  Ilazael  on 
the  eastern  frontier.  Hence  the  war  was  disastrous  to 
him,  and  the  Syrians  were  able  to  maintain  themselves 
in  the  possession  of  a great  part  of  his  territories  beyond 
the  Jordan  (2  Kings  x,  29-33).  lie  died  in  quiet,  and 
was  buried  in  Samaria,  leaving  the  throne  to  his  son 
Jelioahaz  (2  Kings  x,  34-36).  B.C.  855.  His  name  is 
thought  to  be  the  first  of  the  Israelitish  kings  which  ap- 
pears in  the  Assyrian  monuments.  It  seems  to  be  found 
on  the  black  obelisk  discovered  at  Nimrud  (Layard, 
Nineveh,  i,  396),  and  now  in  the  British  Museum,  among 
the  names  of  kings  who  arc  bringing  tribute  (in  this 
case  gold  and  silver,  and  articles  manufactured  in  gold) 
to  Shalmaneser  I.  His  name  is  given  as  “Jehu”  (or 
“Yahua”),  “the  son  of  Khumri”  (Omri).  This  substi- 
tution of  the  name  of  Omri  for  that  of  his  own  father 
may  be  accounted  for  either  by  the  importance  which 
Omri  had  assumed  as  the  second  founder  of  the  north- 
ern kingdom,  or  by  the  name  of  “ Bcth-Khumri,”  only 
given  to  Samaria  in  those  monuments  as  “ the  House  or 
Capital  of  Omri”  (Layard,  Xinevtli  and  Babylon,  p.  643 ; 
Rawlinson’s  llerodot.  i,  465). 

There  is  nothing  difficult  to  understand  in  the  char- 
acter of  Jehu,  lie  was  one  of  those  decisive,  terrible, 
and  ambitious,  yet  prudent,  calculating,  and  passionless 
men  whom  God  from  time  to  time  raises  up  to  change 
the  fate  of  empires  and  execute  his  judgments  on  the 
earth.  He  boasted  of  his  zeal — “ Come  and  see  my  zeal 
for  the  Lord”— but  at  the  bottom  it  was  zeal  for  Jehu. 
His  zeal  was  great  so  long  as  it  led  to  acts  which  squared 
with  his  own  interests,  but  it  cooled  marvellously  when 
required  to  take  a direction  in  his  judgment  less  favor- 
able to  them.  Even  his  zeal  in  extirpating  the  idolatry 
of  Baal  is  not  free  from  suspicion.  The  altar  of  Baal 
was  that  which  Ahab  had  associated  with  his  throne, 
and  in  overturning  the  latter  he  could  not  prudently  let 
the  former  stand,  surrounded  as  it.  was  by  attached  ad- 
herents of  the  house  which  he  had  extirpated.  He 
must  be  regarded,  like  many  others  in  history,  as  an  in- 
strument for  accomplishing  great  purpose's  rather  than 
as  great  or  good  in  himself.  In  the  long  period  during 
which  his  destiny — though  known  to  others  and  per- 
haps to  himself— lay  dormant ; in  the  suddenness  of  his 
rise  to  power;  in  the  ruthlcssness  with  which  he  car- 
ried out  his  purposes ; in  the  union  of  profound  silence 
and  dissimulation  with  a stem,  fanatic,  wayward  zeal, 
he  has  not  been  without  his  likenesses  in  modern  times. 


814 


JEHUDA 


JEHUBBA 

The  Scripture  narrative,  although  it  fixes  our  attention 
on  the  services  which  he  rendered  to  the  cause  of  relig- 
ion by  the  extermination  of  a worthless  dynasty  and  a 
degrading  worship,  yet,  on  the  whole,  leaves  the  sense 
that  it  was  a reign  barren  in  great  results.  His  dynasty, 
indeed,  was  firmly  seated  on  the  throne  longer  than  any 
other  royal  house  of  Israel  (2  Kings  x),  and  under  Jero- 
boam 11  it  acquired  a high  name  among  the  Oriental 
nations.  But  Elisha,  who  had  raised  him  to  power,  as  far 
as  we  know,  never  saw  him.  In  other  respects  it  was  a 
failure;  the  original  sin  of  Jeroboam’s  worship  contin- 
ued ; and  in  the  prophet  Hosea  there  seems  to  be  a ret- 
ribution exacted  for  the  bloodshed  by  which  he  had 
mounted  the  throne:  “I  will  avenge  the  blood  of  Jcz- 
reel  upon  the  house  of  Jehu”  (Hos.  i,  4),  as  in  the  simi- 
lar condemnation  of  Baasha  (1  Kings  xvi,  2).  See  a 
striking  poem  to  this  effect  on  the  character  of  Jehu  in 
the  Lyra  Aptostolica. — Kitto;  Smith.  See  Israel, 

KINGDOM  OF. 

5.  Son  of  Josibiah,  apparently  one  of  the  chief  Sim- 
eonites  who  migrated  to  the  valley  of  Gedor  in  quest  of 
pasturage  during  the  reign  of  Hezekiah,  and  expelled 
t he  aboriginal  Ilagarites  ( 1 Chron.  iv,  35).  B.C.  cir.  71 1 . 

Jehub'bah  (Heb.  Yechubbuh ',  for  which  the 

margin  has  f12.fi),  ve-Ckubbah',  i.  c.  and  Hubbub,  as  if 
the  proper  form  were  nan,  Chubbah',  i.  e.  hidden ; Sept. 
’0/3d  v.  r.  1cr/3a,  Yulg.  II aba),  one  of  the  sons  of  Sha- 
mer,  or  Sliomer,  of  the  tribe  of  Asher  (1  Chron.  vii,  34). 
B.C.  perhaps  eir.  1618. 

Jehu'cal  (Heb.  Yekukal',  able;  Sept.  ’Iw- 

d\a\),  son  of  Shelemiah,  one  of  two  persons  sent  by 
king  Zedekiah  to  the  prophet  Jeremiah  to  request  his 
prayers  on  behalf  of  the  kingdom ; but  who  joined  with 
his  associates  on  his  return  in  demanding  the  prophet’s 
death  on  account  of  his  unfavorable  response  (Jer. 
xxxvii,  3).  In  Jer.  xxxviii,  1 his  name  is  written  in 
the  contracted  form  Jucal  (b3*P,  YukaT,  Sept.  Twd- 
y«\),  and  in  verse  4 hs  is  styled  one  of  “the  princes.” 
B.C.  589. 

Je'hud  (Heb.  Yehud',  *Jfi),  apocopated  from  Ju- 
daii,  as  in  Dan.  ii,  25,  etc.;  Sept.  'lotftf  v.  r.  ’lot&  and 
’A* wo),  a town  on  the  border  of  Dan,  named  between 
Baalah  and  Bene-barak  (Josh,  xix,  45).  It  is  perhaps 
the  present  village  el -Yeliudiyeh,  seven  and  a half  miles 
south  of  east  from  Jaffa  (Robinson's  Researches,  iii,  45; 
new  ed.  iii,  140,  141,  notes;  Schwarz,  Palest,  p.  141). 

Jehudah  (ha-Levi)  de  Modena.  See  Modena. 

Jehudah  ben-Balaam.  See  Ibn-Balaam. 

Jehudah  ben-David.  See  Chajug. 

Jehudah  beu-Koreish.  See  Ibn-Koeeisii. 

Jehudah  (iia-Levi)  ben-Samuel  (called  in  Ar- 
abic Abulhassan)  a distinguished  Spanish  Jew',  great 
alike  as  linguist,  philosopher,  and  poet,  one  of  the  great- 
est lights  in  Jewish  literature,  w'as.born  in  Castile  about 
1086  according  to  Griitz,  or  1 105  according  to  Kappo- 
port.  But  little  is  known  of  the  early  history  of  his 
life ; when  a youth  of  fifteen  lie  was  already  celebrated 
as  a promising  poetical  genius.  In  the  vigor  of  man- 
hood we  find  Jehudah  endeavoring  to  spread  a knowl- 
edge of  Rabbinical  and  Arabian  literature,  both  by  po- 
etical productions  and  by  disciples  whom  he  gathered 
about  him  at  Toledo,  where  lie  founded  a college.  About 
1111  he  is  supposed  to  have  completed  his  Kozari 
(’'“fi-),  generally  called  Cusuri , the  best  work  ever 
written  in  defence  of  the  Jewish  religion,  and  aiming  to 
refute  the  objections  urged  against  Judaism  by  Chris- 
tians, Mohammedans,  philosophical  infidels,  and  that 
sect  of  the  Jew's  know'll  to  be  bitterly  opposed  to  the 
recognition  of  the  authority  of  tradition — the  Karaites. 
Many  eminent  critics,  among  whom  ranks  Bartolocci, 
have  long  discredited  the  supposition  that  it  is  the  pro- 
duction of  Jehudah,  but  of  late  all  seem  agreed  that  he 
was  really  the  author  of  the  work,  which  is  entitled 


*ptajbx  “23  ‘’a  b^bnbjo  n'  bnbx  nstra 

( The  Hook  of  Evidence  and  A rgument  in  Apology  fur  the 
despised  Religion,  i.  e.  Judaism).  In  style,  this  work  is 
an  imitation  of  Plato’s  dialogues  on  the  immortality  of 
the  soul.  According  to  Griitz  ( Geschichte  der  Juden, 
v,  214  sq. ; vi,  146  sq.),  the  Khozars,  a tribe  of  the 
Finns,  which  was  akin  to  the  Bulgarians,  Avarians,  and 
Ugurians,  or  Hungarians,  had  settled  on  the  borders 
of  Asia  and  Europe,  and  founded  a dominion  on  the 
mouth  of  the  Volga  and  the  Caspian  Sea,  very  near 
Astraclian.  After  the  destruction  of  the  Persian  em- 
pire, this  Finnish  tribe  invaded  the  Caucasus,  made  in- 
roads into  Armenia,  conquered  the  Crimea,  exacted 
tribute  from  the  Byzantine  emperors,  made  vassals  of 
the  Bulgarians,  etc.,  and  compelled  the  Russians  to  send 
annually  to  their  kings  a sword  and  a costly  fur.  Like 
their  neighbors,  the  Bulgarians  and  Russians,  they  w'ere 
idolaters,  and  gave  themselves  up  to  gross  sensuality 
and  licentiousness,  until  they  became  acquainted  with 
, Christianity  and  Mohammedanism  through  commercial 
intercourse  with  the  Greeks  and  Arabs,  and  with  Juda- 
ism through  the  Greek  Jews  who  fled  from  the  religious 
persecutions  of  the  Byzantine  emperor  Leo  (A.D.  723). 
Of  these  strangers  called  Khozarians  the  Jews  gained 
the  greater  admiration,  as  they  especially  distinguished 
themselves  as  merchants,  physicians,  and  councillors  of 
state ; and  the  Khozars  came  to  contrast  the  Jewish  re- 
ligion with  the  then  corrupt  Christianity  and  Moham- 
medanism. King  Bulan,  the  officials  of  state,  and  the 
majority  of  the  people,  who  had  determined  to  forsake 
their  idolatrous  worship,  embraced  Judaism,  A.D.  731. 
j This  important  item  of  Jewish  history,  which  is  rigidly 
contended  for  as  authentic  by  some  of  the  best  students 
of  Oriental  history  (compare  Vivien  de  St.  Martin,  Les 
1 Khuzai's,  memoire  lu  a I'Academie  des  Inscriptions  et  des 
Belles-Lettres  [Paris,  1851];  Carmolv,  Itineraires  de  la 
Terre  Sainte  [Bruxelles,  1847],  p.  1-104;  Griitz,  Gesvh.  d. 
Juden,  v,  210  sq.),  throws  light  upon  Eldad  Ha-Dani’s 
description  of  the  lost  tribes;  the  references  in  the  Chal- 
dee paraphrase  on  Chron.  i,  5,  26;  the  allusion  in  Josip- 
pon  ben-Gorion,  ch.  x,  ed.  Breithaupt ; and  many  other 
theories  about  the  whereabouts  of  the  ten  tribes.  See 
Restoration.  It  is  this  item  of  Eastern  history  that 
furnished  Jehudah  a basis  for  his  work.  In  his  Kozari 
he  represents  Bulan  as  determined  to  forsake  idolatry, 
and  earnestly  desirous  to  find  the  true  religion.  To  this 
end  he  sends  for  two  philosophers,  a Christian  and  a Mo- 
hammedan, listens  to  the  expositions  of  their  respective 
creeds,  and,  as  they  all  refer  to  the  Jews  as  the  fountain- 
head, he  at  last  sends  for  an  Israelite,  one  Rabbi  Isaac 
of  Sanger,  probably  a Bithynian,  to  propound  his  re- 
ligious tenets,  becomes  convinced  of  their  divine  origin, 
and  embraces  the  Jewish  religion.  The  real  importance 
of  this  w'ork,  however,  rests  on  the  discussions  into  wdiich 
it  enters  on  many  subjects  bearing  upon  the  exposition  of 
the  Hebrew'  Scriptures,  Jewish  literature,  history,  philos- 
ophy, etc.,  all  of  which  are  in  turn  reviewed.  Thus,  for 
instance,  synagogual  service,  feasts,  fasts,  sacrifices,  the 
Sanhedrim,  the  development  of  the  Talmud,  the  Maso- 
rah,  the  vowel-points,  the  Karaites,  etc.,  are  all  minutely 
discussed  in  this  work,  which  De  Sacy  (see  Biogrciphie 
UniverseUe,  xxii,  101  sq.)  has  pronounced  to  be  one  of 
the  most  valuable  and  beautiful  productions  of  the  Jew- 
ish pen.  Abcn-Ezra  and  David  Kimchi  frequently  re- 
fer to  it,  the  former  in  his  Commentary,  the  latter  in  his 
Lexicon.  A Hebrew  translation  of  Kozari  was  pre- 
pared by  Jehudah  Ibn-Tibbon,  who  named  it  “£0 
■'““izn  (The  Bookof  Kozari),  after  the  heroes  of  it,  and 
it  wras  first  published  at  Fano  in  1506,  then  at  Venice  in 
1547,  with  an  introduction  and  commentary  by  Muscato 
(Venice,  1594) ; with  a Latin  translation  and  disserta- 
tions by  Jo.  Buxtorf,  fil.  (Basle,  1660) ; a Spanish  trans- 
lation of  it  was  made  by  Abendana  without  the  Hebrew 
text  (Amsterd.  1663).  The  work  has  more  lately  been 
published  with  a commentary  by  Satorow  (Berl.  1795)  : 
w'ith  a commentary,  various  readings,  index,  etc.,  by  G. 


JEIITJDAII  815  JEKUTIIIEL 


Breclior  (Prague,  1888-40)  ; and  the  very  latest,  with  a 
German  translation,  explanatory  notes,  etc.,  by  I)r.  Da- 
vid Cassel  (Leipzig,  1853),  which  is  generally  considered 
the  most  useful  edition.  Jehndah,  like  many  other  em- 
inent Jewish  literati  of  his  day,  seems  to  have  practised 
medicine  to  secure  to  himself  a sufficient  income,  which 
his  literary  labors  evidently  failed  to  provide  for  him. 
After  the  completion  of  his  Kozuri  he  determined  to 
emigrate  to  the  Holy  Land,  and  die  and  be  buried  in  the 
land  of  his  forefathers.  Tradition  says  that  he  was 
murdered  by  an  Arab  (about  1142)  while  he  was  lying 
on  his  face  under  the  walls  of  Jerusalem,  overcome  by 
his  contemplations  at  the  ruins  of  Zion,  of  “the  depop- 
ulation of  a region  once  so  densely  inhabited,  the  wil- 
derness and  desolation  of  a land  formerly  teeming  with 
hyxiiriance” — a gift  which  God  had  given  unto  his  fore- 
fathers, who  had  failed  to  appreciate  the  goodness  of 
their  Lord,  lie  is  said  to  be  buried  at  lvephar  Kabul. 
See  Geiger,  Wissenschaftliche  ZeitsvhriJ ?,  i,  158  sq. ; ii, 
3G7  sq. ; Cassel,  Das  Buck  Kusari  (Leipzig,  1853),  p.  v- 
xxxv ; Griitz,  Geschichte  tier  Juden,  vi,  140-167 ; Stein- 
selmeider,  Catalogus  Libr.  flebr.  in  Bibliotheca  Bodlc Ul- 
na, col.  1838-1342;  Sachs,  Relig.  Poesie  der  Juden  in 
Spaniel),  p.  287 ; Turner,  Jewish  Rabbis , p.  22  sq. ; Kitto, 
Bibl.  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; ltule,  Karaites  (London,  1870),  p.  80 
sq. ; Furst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  ii,  35  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jehudah  (Arje-Loeb)  ben-Zebi  (Hirsh), a Jew- 
ish writer  of  some  note,  was  born  at  Krotoschin  (Polish 
Prussia)  about  1680.  He  afterwards  became  rabbi  at 
Carpentras  and  Avignon.  His  works  are:  (1)  A He- 
brew Lexicon,  entitled  iTTfttt?  “'blnX  ( The  Tents  of  Ju- 
dah) (Jesnitz,  1719,  4to),  consisting  of  two  parts;  the 
first  part,  Z'ij  (the  everlasting  name),  confines  it- 

self mainly  to  proper  names;  the  second  part,  E'i)  "P 
{place  and  name),  supplies  the  words  omitted  in  the 
first  part.  This  work  partakes  of  the  nature  of  a con- 
cordance as  well  as  of  a lexicon,  inasmuch  as  it  gives 
the  places  in  Scripture  in  which  every  word  is  to  be 
found: — (2)  A Hebrew  Grammar,  called  pbn 

{The  Portion  of  Judah)  ; of  this  work,  the  introduction 
only,  TL'^rpTi  jV“b  ’VE"'  (The  Foundation  of  the  Sa- 
cred Language'),  was  ever  published  (Wilmersdorf,  1721, 
4to);  it  contains  fifteen  canons  and  paradigms,  with  a 
German  translation:  — and  (3)  a Concordance,  entitled 
{The  Stem  of  Judah),  which  only  goes  as  far 
as  the  root  "IS  (Offenbach,  1732,  4to). — Kitto,  Biblic. 
Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Steinschncider,  Libri  Ilebrcei  in  Biblioth. 
Bodlc iana,  eol.  1378;  Bibliogr.  IJandb.f  llebr.  Sprach- 
htnde  (Leipzig,  1859),  p.  70;  Furst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  i,  145 
sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Jehudah,  ha-Kodesh,  etc.  See  Judaii,  etc. 

Jehu'di  (Hebrew  Yehudi',  a Jew,  as  often; 

Sept.  ’lovSttv  v.  r.  ’lavoiv,  ’lovli,  ’lovSei)  son  of  Neth- 
aniah,  sent  by  the  princes  to  invite  Baruch  to  read  Jer- 
emiah’s roll  to  them,  and  who  afterwards  read  it  to  the 
king  himself  (Jer.  xxxvi,  14,  21).  B.C.  605. 

Jehudi'jah  (Heb.  Yehudiyah' , [ with  the 

art.,  the),  Jewess,  as  in  the  Engl,  margin;  Sept,  ’lei a v. 
’Ac/ti,  Vulg.  Jndaja),  a female  named  as  the  second  wife 
apparently  of  tiered,  and  mother  of  several  founders  of 
cities  in  Judah  (1  Chron.  iv,  18);  probably  the  same 
with  Horn aii  in  the  ensuing  verse,  mentioned  as  the 
sister  of  Naham,  etc.  The  latter  name  is  possibly  by  a 
corruption  of  ha-Yehudiyah.  See  Mered.  B.C.  dr. 
1612. 

Je'hush  (Chron.  viii,  39).  See  Jeusii. 

Jei'el  (Heb.  Yeiel',  snatched  away  by  God), 

the  name  of  several  men.  See  also  Jehiel;  Jeuel. 

1.  (Text  bxilp  [i.  e.  Jeuel],  Sept.  *1  c<»/X  v.  r.  TeZ/X, 
Vulg.  Jekiel,  Autli.  Version  “ Jehiel.”)  A descendant  of 
Benjamin,  apparently  named  as  the  founder  of  and  resi- 
dent at  Gibeon,  the  husband  of  Maachah,  and  the  father 


of  a large  family  (1  Chron.  ix,  35 ; comp,  viii,  29).  B.C. 
prob.  cir.  1618. 

2.  (Text  [i.  c.  Jeuel),  Sept.  Te 'it)\  or  Tm/X, 

Vulg.  Jediel,  Autli.  Vers.  “Jehiel.”)  An  Aroerite,  son 
of  Ilothan,  and  brother  of  Shama,  one  of  David’s  supple- 
mentary heroes  (1  Chron.  xi,  44).  B.C.  1046. 

3.  (Sept.  ’DYZ/X,  Vulg.  Jehiel,  but  Jahiel  in  the  first 
occurrence  in  1 Chron.  xvi,  5.)  One  of  the  Levites  ap- 
pointed by  David  to  celebrate  the  divine  praises  before 
the  ark  on  its  removal  to  Jerusalem  (l  Chron.  xvi,  5); 
apparently  the  same  mentioned  again  in  the  latter  part 
of  the  same  verse  as  a performer  on  “psalteries  and 
harps;”  named  elsewhere  in  like  connection  with  Obed- 
edom,  either  as  a gate-warden  of  the  Temple  (1  Chron. 
xv,  18,  21),  or  as  one  of  the  sacred  musicians  “with 
harps  on  the  Sheminith  to  excel”  (1  Chron.  xv,  21). 
B.C.  1043.  See  Jeihel,  1. 

4.  (Sept.  ’EXfZjX  v.  r.  ’EXfYZyX,  ’EXatjX,  also  Ta Z/X, 
Vulg.  Jehiel.)  A Levite,  son  of  Mattaniah  and  father 
of  Benaiali,  great-grandfather  of  Jahaziel,  who  predicted 
success  to  Jehoshaphat  against  the  Ammonites  and  Mo- 
abites (2  Chron.  xx,  14).  B.C.  considerably  ante  890. 

5.  (Text  [i.  e.  Jeuel],  Sept.  7eii/X,  Vulg.  Je- 

hiel.) A scribe  charged,  in  connection  with  others,  with 
keeping  the  account  of  Uzziali’s  troops  (2  Chron.  xxvi, 
11).  B.C.  803. 

6.  (Sept.  Ton/X,  Vulg.  Jehiel.)  A chief  Reubenite  at 
the  time  of  the  taking  of  some  census,  apparently  on  the 
deportation  of  the  trans-Jordanic  tribes  by  Tilgath-piL 
neser  (L  Chron.  v,  7).  B.C.  782. 

7.  (Text  [i.  e.  Jeuel],  Sept.  TfY/jX,  Vulg.  Ja- 

hiel.) A Levite  of  the  “sons”  of  Elizaphan,  one  of 
those  who  assisted  in  expurgating  the  Temple  in  the 
reign  of  Hezekiah  (2  Chron.  xxix,  13).  B.C.  726. 

8.  (Sept.  ’iti'ZjX,  Vulg.  Jehiel.)  One  of  the  chief  Le- 
vites who  made  an  ottering  for  the  restoration  of  the 
Passover  by  Josiah  (2  Chron.  xxxv,  9).  B.C.  623. 

9.  (Text  [i.  e.  Jeuel],  Sept.  TfZ/X  v.  r.  ’EYZjX, 

Vulg.  Jehiel.)  One  of  the  “last  sons”  of  Adonikam,  a 
leading  Israelite,  who,  with  seventy  males,  returned 
from  Babylon  with  Ezra  (Ezra  viii,  13).  B.C.  459. 

10.  (Sept.  TsaZ/X  v.  r.  TaZjX,XTulg.  Jehiel.)  An  Is- 
raelite, one  of  the  “sons”  of  Nebo,  who  divorced  his 
Gentile  wife  after  the  Exile  (Ezra  x,  43).  B.C.  459. 

J eins.  See  Jains. 

Jeish.  See  Jeusii. 

Jejunia  quatuor  tempcrum  is  the  original 
name  for  the  fasts  of  the  four  seasons  of  the  year,  which 
are  now  commonly  called  Ember  1 1 'eels  (q.  v.).  See 
Bingham,  Antiq.ofthe  Christian  Church,  p.  155,  1190. 

Jejunium.  See  Fastino. 

Jekab'zeel  (Heb.  Yekabtseel',  gathered 

by  God;  Sept.  Ka/3o-fZ/X,  Vulg.  Cabseel),  tlie  name  of  a 
place  in  the  tribe  of  Judah  (Noli,  xi,  25);  elsewhere 
(Josh,  xv,  21)  called  by  the  equivalent  but  shorter 
name  Kabzeel  (q.  v.). 

Jekame'am  (Heb.  Yehamam',  E”ppp  gatherer 
of  the  people;  Sept.  ’itKtptag,  ’leKtpta),  the  fourth  in 
rank  of  the  “sons”  of  Hebron  in  the  Levitical  arrange- 
ment established  by  David  (1  Chron.  xxiii,  19;  xxiv, 
23).  B.C.  1014. 

Jekami'all  (Heb.  Yehvnyah’,  rrpp",  gathered  by 
Jehovah ),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  (Sept.  ’ltnoptag  v.  r.  ’Itxe/dag,  Vulg.  Tcamia.) 
Son  of  Shallum,  and  father  of  Elishama,  of  the  descend- 
ants of  Sheshan  of  Judah  (l  Chron.  ii,  41).  B.C.  prob. 
cir,  588. 

2.  (Sept.  ’\tKtvta  v.  r.  Vulg.  Jecemia,  Auth. 

Version  “ Jecamiah.”)  The  fifth  named  of  the  sons  of 
king  Jeconiah  (l  Chron.  iii,  18),  born  to  him  during  the 
Babylonian  exile,  and,  according  to  tradition,  by  Susan- 
na. See  Jeiioiaciiin.  B.C.  post  598. 

Jeku'thiel  (Heb.  Yehuthiel',  reverence 


JEKUTHIEL  816  JENKS 


of  God;  Sept.  ’IfJc3'J7//\  v.  r.  6 Xeru)\),  “father”  of  Za- 
noali,  and  one  of  the  sons  apparently  of  Mered  by  his 
second  wife  Ilodiali,  or  Jehudijah  (1  Chron.  iv,  18). 
B.C.  cir.  1(318.  See  Mered. 

“ In  the  comment  of  Rabbi  Joseph,  Jered  is  interpreted 
to  mean  Moses,  and  each  of  the  names  following  are 
taken  as  titles  borne  by  him.  Jekuthiel  — ‘trust  in 

God’ is  so  applied  ‘because  in  his  days  the  Israelites 

trusted  in  the  God  of  heaven  for  forty  years  in  the  wil- 
derness.’ In  a remarkable  prayer  used  by  the  Spanish 
ami  Portuguese  Jews  in  the  concluding  service  of  the 
Sabbath,  Elijah  is  invoked  as  having  had  ‘ tidings  of 
peace  delivered  to  him  by  t he  hand  of  Jekuthiel.’  This 
is  explained  to  refer  to  some  transaction  in  the  life  of 
Phineas,  with  whom  Elijah  is,  in  the  traditions  of  the 
Jews,  believed  to  be  identical  (see  Allen,  Modern  Juda- 
ism, p.  229).” — Smith. 

Jekuthiel.  See  Luzatto. 

Jekuthiel  ben-Isaac  Blitz,  also  called  by  his 
father’s  name,  Isaac  Blitz,  was  corrector  of  the  press  at 
the  printing  establishment  of  Uri  Febes  Levi  at  Am- 
sterdam, and  was  the  first  Jew  who  translated  the  whole 
O.  T.  into  German  (in  Hebrew  type).  It  ivas  published 
under  the  title  TSr'l'X  “ :rt  {The  four-and- 

twenty  Boohs  translated  into  German),  with  (r.V'Pi’lr 
-,rrb3  jzr.n)  Eaibag’s  rvnbrir,  or  Usus  on 
Joshua,  Judges,  and  Samuel,  and  a threefold  introduc- 
tion, viz.  a Hebrew  introduction  by  the  translator,  a 
Latin  diploma  from  the  Polish  king,  John  Sobieski  III, 
a Judajo-German  introduction  by  the  publisher,  and  a 
German  introduction  by  the  translator  (Amsterd.  1676- 
78).  A specimen  of  this  translation  is  given  by  Wolf, 
Bibliotheca  Ilebrcea,  iv,  183-187.  Comp,  also  ii,  454  of 
the  same  work ; Steinschneider,  Catalogus  Libr.  Ilebr. 
in  Bibliotheca  Bodleiana,  col.  175;  Griitz,  Geschichte  der 
Juden,  x,  329  sq. ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  i,  120  sq. 

Jekuthiel  ben-Jehudah  Coiien  (also  called 
Salman  Xakdon,  i.  e.  the  Punctuator,  and  by  contrac- 
tion Ieiiabj),  a distinguished  Masorite  and  editor  of  the 
Hebrew  Scriptures,  flourished  in  Prague  in  the  latter 
half  of  the  13th  century.  He  edited  a very  correct  text 
of  the  Pentateuch  (published  for  the  first  time  by  Hei- 
denheim  in  his  edition  of  the  Pentateuch  called  “"X'S 
C*1:’1?  [Kbdelheim,  1818-21])  and  the  book  of  Father 
(also  published  by  Heidenheim  in  his  -"“■’£71  "I"  "H~ 
[Kbdelheim,  1825]),  with  the  vowels  and  accents,  for 
the  preparation  of  which  he  consulted  six  old  Spanish 
codices,  which  he  denominates  53  ?,  p }t,  R S,  D "3X? 
IX,  ax.  and  which  Heidenheim  explains  to  mean 

"inx  vp^r,  ‘panp,  aim,  pi,  ma,  the 

prefix  X denoting  Spain  (comp,  X“iprt  ‘p2  on  Numb, 
xxxir,  28).  The  results  of  his  critical  labors  he  further 
embodied  in  a work  entitled  X“i!p  ‘pS  ( The  Eye  of  the 
Reuder),  and  makes  frequent  quotations  from  the  writ- 
ings of  mail}-  distinguished  Jewish  commentators  of  his 
and  the  preceding  age.  An  appendix  to  the  work  con- 
tains a grammatical  treatise  entitled  ‘Rip:n  *3^*1,  or 
*3ip:n  "573  ( The  Laws  of  the  Vowel  Points).  Comp. 
Zuuz,  Zur  Geschichte  und  Literatur  (Berl.  1845),  p.  115; 
Fiirst,  Bibliotheca  Judaica,  ii,  53 ; Geiger,  Wissenschaf- 
liche  Zeitschrift  f.  Jiidische  Theoloyie,  v,  4 1 8-420 ; Stein- 
schneider, Catalogus  Libr.  I/eh.in  Bibliotheca  Bodleiana, 
col.  1381. — Kit  to,  Cyclop.  Bibl.  Lit.  s.  v. 

Jemi'ma  (Ileb.  Yemimah',  dove,  from  the 

Arab. ; Sept.  'If/iipn,  Vulg.  Dies,  both  mistaking  the  der- 
ivation as  if  from  CP,  day),  the  name  of  the  first  of 
Job’s  three  daughters  born  after  his  trial  (Job  xlii,  14). 
B.C.  cir.  2200.  “The  Rev.  C.  Forster  {Historical  Ge- 
ography  of  A rabia,  ii,  67),  in  tracing  the  posterity  of 
Job  in  Arabia,  thinks  that  the  name  of  Jemima  sur- 
vives in  Jemama,  the  central  province  of  the  Arabian 
peninsula,  which,  according  to  an  Arabian  tradition  (see 


Bochart,  Phaleg,  ii,  § 26),  wras  called  after  Jemama,  an 
ancient  queen  of  the  Arabians”  (Smith). 

Jemini.  See  Benjamin. 

Jem'naan  (hpvaav,  Vnlg.  omits),  a place  men- 
tioned in  the  Apocrypha  (Judith  ii,  20)  among  those 
on  the  sea-coast  of  Palestine  to  which  the  panic  of  the 
incursion  of  Holofernes  extended,  no  doubt  Jabneel  or 
J amnia  (q.  v.). 

Jemu'el  (lleb.  YemueT,  5X!^p,  rfay-light  of  God ; 
Sept.  ’Ityovi/X,  Vidg.  Jatnuel),  the  first-named  of  the 
sons  of  Simeon  (Gen.  xlvi,  10;  Exod.  vi,  15) ; elsewhere 
(Numb,  xxvi,  12)  called  Nemuel  (bx^3,  Nemuel' f 
Sept.  Nrt/uoiu)\,Vulg.  Namnel),  apparently  by  an  error 
of  copyists,  and  his  descendants  Nemuelites  (Hebrew 
Nemueli,  “'5X1  «3,  Sept.  Najuouf/A/,  Yulg.  Numuelitce, 
Numb,  xxvi,  12).  B.C.  1856. 

Jenisck,  Daniel,  a German  theologian  of  some 
note,  was  born  at  Heiligenbeil,  in  East  Prussia,  April  2, 
1762,  and  educated  at  the  University  of  Kbnigsberg. 
In  1786  he  became  pastor  at  the  Marv  Church,  and  af- 
terwards at  the  Nicholas  Church.  Endowed  with  great 
natural  abilities,  and  a very  earnest  worker,  Jenisch 
soon  secured  for  himself  one  of  the  foremost  places  as  a 
theologian  and  a philosophical  writer.  But  too  close 
application  to  study  resulted  in  a derangement  of  his 
mental  powers,  and  he  is  supposed  to  have  violently  end- 
ed his  life  Feb.  9,  1804.  His  works  of  interest  to  us  are 
Ueber  Grand  u.  Werth  d.  Entdeckungen  Kant's  in  der 
Metaphysik,  Moral,  u.  Aesthetik  (Berl.  1796,  large  8vo) : 
— Sollte  Religion  dem  Menschen  jenials  entbehrlich  werden 
(ibid.  1797,  8vo).  Besides  these,  he  published,  after  his 
mind  began  to  be  seriously  affected,  Ueber  Gottesrerehr- 
ung  u.  Kirchliche  Reformen  (ibid.  1802,  8vo),  rather  the 
work  of  a sceptical  Christian,  if  we  may  use  the  expres- 
sion, though  it  contains  also  many  just  criticisms  on 
the  liturgy  and  homiletics  of  the  Lutheran  Church  of 
his  day;  and  Kritik  des  dogmutisch-idealischen  u.  hyper- 
idealischen  Religions-  u.  Moralsystems  (Lpz.  1804,  8vo), 
which  was  the  last  work  of  Jenisch.  See  Dbring,  Ge- 
lehrte  Theologen  Deutschlands,  ii,  20  sq.  (J.  1 1.  AY.) 

Jenkin,  Robert,  an  English  theologian,  was  born 
at  Minster,  Tlianet,  in  1656.  He  studied  at  Canterbury 
and  Cambridge,  of  which  lie  became  fellow.  He  was 
successively  appointed  rector  of  St.John’s  College,  pro- 
fessor of  theology,  and  chaplain  to  Dr.  Lake,  bishop  of 
Chichester.  In  1688  he  refused  to  take  the  oath  re- 
quired of  all  holding  benefices,  and  retired  to  private  life. 
He  died  in  1727.  His  principal  work  is  The  Reasona- 
bleness of  the  Christian  Religion  (six  editions;  the  best 
1734.  2 vols.  8vo).  He  wrote  also  Examination  of  the 
Authority  of  General  Councils  (Loud.  1688,  4to) : — De- 
fensio  sancti  A ugustini  versus  J.  Phereponum  (London, 
1707,  8vo): — Remarks  upon  four  Books  just  published 
(on  Basnage’s  History  of  the  Jews,  Lake’s  Paraphrase 
of  St.  Paul's  Epistle,  Le  Clerc’s  Bibliotheqne  choisie,  etc.). 
He  also  translated  into  English  Tillemont’s  Life  of 
Apollonius  of  Tyana.  See  Gorton,  General  Eiograph. 
Diet.  s.  v.;  Hoefer,  None.  Biogr.  Generate,  xxvi,  650; 
Allibone,  Diet,  of  A uthors,  i,  962.  (J.  N.  P.) 

J enkin,  William.  See  Jenkyn. 

Jenks,  Benjamin,  an  English  divine,  was  born 
in  1646.  Of  his  early  history  but  little  is  known.  He 
was  at  first  rector  at  Harley,  then  at  Kenlev,  and  after- 
wards chaplain  to  the  earl  of  Bradford.  He  died  at 
Harley  in  1724.  He  published  Prayers  and  Offices  of 
Devotion  for  Families,  and  for  particular  Persons  upon 
most  Occasions  (London,  1697,  8vo;  of  which  the  27th 
edition  was  published  in  1810  by  the  Rev.  Charles  Sim- 
eon, fellow  of  King’s  College,  Cambridge,  with  altera- 
tions and  amendments  in  style;  there  is  also  an  edition 
by  Barnes,  12mo,  and  an  abridgment,  12mo) : — Submis- 
sion to  the  Righteousness  of  God  (1700, 8vo;  4th  ed.  1755, 
12mo)  : — Meditations,  with  short  Prayers  annexed  (1701, 
8vo;  2d  edit.  1756,  2 vols.  8vo.  with  a recommendatory 


JENKS 


817  JENYNS 


Preface  by  Mr.  Ilervey): — Ouranoyraphy,  or  Heaven 
Opened  (1710,  8vo) : — The  Poor  Man's  Companion , a 
lesser  Prayer-book  for  Families  on  common  Jhiys  and 
other  Occasions  (Lund.  1713,  8vo),  besides  a number  of 
sermons  on  various  topics.  See  Alii  bone,  Dictionary  of 
A uthors,  i,  963. 

Jenks,  Hervey,  a Baptist  minister,  was  born  at 
Brookfield,  Mass.,  June  16,  1787,  and  was  educated  at 
Brown  University.  After  teaching  a short  time  at  the 
academy  at  that  time  connected  with  the  university,  he 
entered  the  ministry,  and  was  successively  pastor  at 
West  Stockbridge,  Mass.,  and  Hudson,  N.  Y. ; then  at 
Hudson  alone;  next  at  Beverly,  Mass.,  whence  he  again 
returned  to  Hudson.  He  died  July  15,  1814.  He  was 
a young  man  of  great  promise,  and,  though  he  was  only' > 
twenty-eight  years  old  when  he  died,  his  abilities  had 
already  been  generally  recognised. — Sprague,  A nnuls  of 
the  A merican  Pulpit , vi,  587  sip 

Jenks,  William,  D.l).,  a Congregational  minis- 
ter of  great  ability  and  distinction,  was  born  at  Newton, 
Mass.,  in  1778,  but  when  only  four  years  of  age  his  fa- 
ther removed  to  Boston.  He  was  educated  at  Harvard 
College,  where  he  graduated  in  1797.  lie  was  first  settled 
in  the  ministry  over  the  Congregational  Church  in  Bath, 
Me.,  where  he  remained  twelve  years;  he  next  filled  the 
professorship  of  Oriental  and  English  literature  in  Bow- 
doin  College  three  years;  then  lie  went  to  Boston,  and 
was  very  active  in  originating  plans  to  secure  religious 
and  social  privileges  for  seamen,  till  that  time  a neg- 
lected class  of  men.  Some  of  the  more  prominent  in- 
stitutions for  the  benefit  of  sailors  now  existing  in  that 
city  owe  their  origin  to  him.  lie  was  pastor  at  the 
same  time  of  the  Green  Street  church,  which  he  served 
for  twenty-five  years.  He  died  Nov.  13,  1866.  Dr. 
Jenks  was  one  of  the  chief  founders  of  the  American 
Oriental  Society,  and  a prominent  member  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Historical  Society,  lie  was  particularly  dis- 
tinguished as  an  Orientalist,  and  edited  the  Compre- 
hensive Commentary  on  the  Holy  Bible  (Brattlcborough, 
1834,  5 vols.  roy.  8vo;  Supplem.  1 vol.  roy.  8vo),  which 
“still  stands  without  a rival  for  the  purpose  for  which  it 
was  intended.”  He  also  published  an  Explanatory  Bi- 
ble Atlas  and  Scripture  Gazetteer  (1819, 4to).  See  Alli- 
bone,  Diet,  of  A uthors , i,  963 ; Appleton,  Amer.  Annual 
Cyclop.  1 866,  p.  4*20.  ( J.  1 1 . W.) 

Jenkyn,  Robert.  See  Jen  kin. 

Jenkyn,  William,  an  English  Nonconformist  di- 
vine, was  born  at  Sudbury,  Suffolk,  in  1612,  and  edu- 
cated at  St.  John's  College,  Cambridge.  He  first  be- 
came lecturer  of  St.  Nicholas  Aeons,  London,  and  in  1641 
minister  of  Christ  Church,  Newgate  Street,  and  lecturer 
of  St.  Ann’s,  Blackfriars.  Refusing  to  observe  (in  1662) 
the  public  thanksgiving  appointed  by  Parliament  on 
occasion  of  the  destruction  of  the  monarchy,  he  was 
ejected  for  nonconformity.  Soon  after  he  was  sent  to 
the  Tower  for  participation  in  Love’s  plot,  but,  upon  pe- 
tition, was  pardoned,  and  restored  to  the  ministry.  Mr. 
Peak,  who  had  in  the  interim  become  minister  of  Christ 
Church,  was  removed,  and  Mr.  Jenkyn  reinstated.  Upon 
this  he  devoted  himself  with  zeal  to  his  work.  On  the 
passage  of  the  Oxford  Act  he  refused  to  take  the  oath, 
and  retired  from  London  to  Hertfordshire,  where  he 
preached  privately.  After  the  Act  of  Indulgence  in 
1671,  he  returned  again  to  London;  but  when,  in  1682, 
the  tempest  broke  out  against  the  Nonconformists,  he 
fell  into  the  hands  of  his  enemies,  and  was  sent,  to  New- 
gate under  the  Conventicle  Act,  where  he  died,  from  the 
air  and  infection  of  the  prison,  in  1685.  Jenkyn  enjoy- 
ed a very  enviable  reputation  among  his  contempora- 
ries for  Christian  piety  and  great  ability.  Richard  Bax- 
ter pronounced  him  “a  sententious  and  elegant  preach- 
er.” He  published  .4  n Exposition  of  the  Epistle  of  .in  de 
(London,  1652-54, 4to;  another  ed.,  revised  by  the  Rev. 
James  Sherman,  with  memoir  of  the  author,  London, 
1839,  imp.  8vo,  and  often).  See  Allibone,  Diet,  of  Au- 
thors, i,  963;  Nonconformists'  Memorial;  Calamv,  Min- 
‘ IY.—F  v k 


isfers  ejected  (1728);  Hoofer,  Nouv,  Bioyraph.  Generate , 
xxvi,  649. 

Jennings,  David,  D.D.,  an  eminent  Independent 
minister,  was  born  at  Ivibworth,  Leicestershire,  in  1691. 
In  1718  he  became  pastor  of  a congregation  in  Old 
Gravel  Lane,  Wapping,  where  he  remained  for  forty- 
four  years.  In  1744  he  went  as  divinity  tutor  to  Cow- 
ard's Academy,  and  died  Sept.  16,  1762.  His  principal 
works  are,  Jewish  Antiquities , with  a Dissertation  on 
the  Hebrew  Language  (London,  1766;  10th  edition, 
1839,  8vo) ; a work  which  “has  long  held  a distinguish- 
ed character  for  its  accuracy  and  learning,”  and  certain- 
ly one  of  the  best  works  of  the  kind  in  the  English  lan- 
guage:— The  Beauty  and  Benefit  of  early  Piety  (Loud, 
i 1731,  ISino): — .1  I ’indication  of  the  Scripture  Doctrine 
of  Oriyinal  Sin  [Anonym.]  (London,  1740,  8vo) : — An 
Appeal  to  Reason  and  Common  Sense  (1755,  I2mo) : — 
Sermons  to  the  Youny  (1743,  12mo),  etc.  See  Orton, 
Life  of  Doddridye,  p.  16,  243;  Protestant  Dissent.  May. 
vol.  v;  Hocler,  Nouv.  Bioyr.  Generate,  xxvi,  660;  Alli- 
bone, Dictionary  of  Authors,  i,  964. 

Jennings,  John,  an  English  dissenting  minister, 
brother  of  David  Jennings  (see  above),  became,  after 
preaching  for  some  time,  a theological  tutor  at  Kib- 
worth.  He  was  also  tutor  to  Dr.  Doddridge.  He.  died 
in  1723.  lie  wrote  Two  discourses  on  Preachiny  (Lon- 
don, 1754,  12mo;  also  in  E.  Williams’s  Preacher's  A s- 
sistant) , etc.  See  Wilson,  /list,  of  Dissenters;  Iloefer, 
Nouv.  Bioy.  Generate,  xxvi,  660;  .Allibone,  Dictionary 
of  A uthors , i,  964. 

Jennings,  Samuel  Kennedy,  a Protestant 
Methodist  lay  minister  of  great  ability  and  distinction, 
was  born  in  Essex  County,  N.  J.,  June  6, 1771.  He  was 
educated  at  Rutgers  (then  Queens)  College.  After  the 
completion  of  his  collegiate  course  he  studied  medicine, 
and  for  a time  even  practiced  as  a physician.  In  hia 
youth  he  was  a decided  infidel,  although  he  sprang  from 
a family  of  ministers  and  zealous  Christian  workers. 
In  1794  he  was  converted,  and  two  years  after  he  enter- 
ed the  lay  ministry,  and  served  his  Church  very  ably. 
In  1805  bishop  Asbury  ordained  him  a deacon,  aud  in 
1814  bishop  Mdvendree  made  him  an  elder.  In  1817 
he  took  up  his  residence  at  Baltimore,  after  having  fill- 
ed in  various  places  the  position  of  physical!  and  minis- 
ter, and  in  this  city  also  he  made  many  friends  by  his 
Christian  kindness  and  liberality.  He  was  one  of  the 
prime  movers  for  the  introduction  of  lay  representation 
in  the  Conferences  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church, 
and  was  one  of  those  who  were  expelled  from  the  Meth- 
. odist  Episcopal  Church,  and  finally  organized  the  “Meth- 
odist Protestant  Church.”  See  Lay  Dm  .eg  at  ion.  lie 
died  Oct.  19,  1854.  See  Sprague,  Annals  of  the  Amer. 
Pulpit,  vii,  279 ; Stevens,  Hist.  Meth.  Episc . Church.  (J. 
11.  W.) 

Jenyns,  Soame,  an  English  politician,  and  a writer 
on  theological  subjects,  born  at  London  in  1704,  was 
educated  at  St.John’s  College,  Cambridge.  He  was  in 
| bis  early  years  a well-known  infidel,  but  extended  Bib- 
lical studies  caused  his  conversion,  and  he  at  once  en- 
tered the  lists  in  active  defence  of  the  Gospel  truths. 
His  ablest  work,  and  one  which  has  given  rise  to  the 
supposition  on  the  part  of  some  that  Jenyns  published  it 
! only  with  intent  to  injure  the  Christian  cause,  nowgen- 
' erally  refuted  on  good  grounds,  is,  Yieio  of  the  Internal 
j Evidence  of  the  Christian  Reliyion  (1776,  12mo;  10th 
! ed.  1798, 8vo,  and  often  since).  Baxter  ( Ch . History,  p. 
659)  says  that  the  work  “brought  out  the  internal  evi- 
! deuce  to  the  truth  of  Christianity  arising  from  its  pecul- 
! iar  and  exalted  morality,”  and  points  to  it  as  one  of  the 
efforts  by  which  “ infidelity,  if  not  convinced,  was  si- 
lenced.” (See,  for  the  pamphlets  on  the  controversy 
which  this  work  elicited,  Chalmers,  Bioy.  Diet,  xviii, 
520,  note  8).  He  also  wrote  A free  Diquiry  into  the 
Nature  and  Oriyin  of  Evil  (1756, 8vo,  and  often),  which 
was  rather  a failure  as  a theological  treatise,  and  was 
very  severely  criticised  by  Dr.  Johnson  (see  Boswell’s 


JEPIITHAE 


818 


JEPHTIIAII 


Johnson , vear  175G).  The  entire  writings  of  Jenvns  are 
collected’ in  4 vols.  8vo  (Lond.  1790-93),  together  with 
his  biography  by  Charles  Nelson  Cole.  Jcnyns  died 
Dec.  18,  1787.  See  Allibone,  Did.  of  Authors,  i,  9G5; 
English  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jeph'thae  (Ileb.  xi,  32).  See  Jkpiitiiah. 

Jeph'thah  (Heb.  Yiphtacli',  rinS?,  opened  or  open- 
er), the  name  of  a man  and  also  of  a place.  See  also 
Jipiithaii-el. 

1.  (Sept.  ’lt<p$a  v.  r.  'IttfSas  and  ’lt<p2rde,  Josephus 
T tif&iis,  Vidg.  Jephte,  N.  T.  ‘Utj&de,  “ Jephthae”),  the 
ninth  judge  of  the  Israelites  for  a period  of  six  years, 
D.C.  125G-1250.  He  belonged  to  the  tribe  of  Manas  sell 
east,  and  was  the  son  of  a person  named  Gilead  by  a 
concubine,  or  perhaps  harlot.  After  the  death  of  his 
father  he  was  expelled  from  liis  home  by  the  envy  of 
his  brothers,  who,  taunting  him  with  illegitimacy,  re- 
fused him  any  share  of  the  heritage,  and  he  withdrew 
to  the  land  of  Tob,  beyond  the  frontier  of  the  Hebrew 
territories.  It  is  clear  that  he  had  before  this  distin- 
guished himself  by  his  daring  character  and  skill  in 
arms;  for  no  sooner  was  his  withdrawal  known  than 
a great  number  of  men  of  desperate  fortunes  repaired  to 
him,  and  he  became  their  chief.  His  position  was  now 
very  similar  to  that  of  David  when  he  withdrew  from 
the  court  of  Saul.  To  maintain  the  people  who  had 
thus  linked  their  fortunes  with  his,  there  was  no  other 
resource  than  that  sort  of  brigandage  which  is  account- 
ed honorable  in  the  East,  so  long  as  it  is  exercised 
against  public  or  private  enemies,  and  is  not  marked  by 
needless  cruelty  or  outrage.  So  Jephthah  eoniined  his 
aggressions  to  the  borders  of  the  small  neighboring  na- 
tions, who  were  in  some  sort  regarded  as  the  natural 
enemies  of  Israel,  even  when  there  was  no  actual  war 
between  them  (Judg.  xi,  1-3). 

The  tribes  beyond  the  Jordan  having  resolved  to  op- 
pose the  Ammonites,  to  whom  the  Israelites  had  fallen 
under  subjection  after  the  death  of  Jair,  in  consequence 
of  relapsing  into  idolatry,  Jephthah  seems  to  have  occur- 
red to  every  one  as  the  most  fitting  leader.  A deputation 
was  accordingly  sent  to  invite  him  to  take  the  command. 
After  some  demur,  on  account  of  the  treatment  he  had 
formerly  received,  he  consented  to  become  their  captain 
on  the  condition — solemnly  ratified  before  the  Lord  in 
Mizpeh — that,  in  the  event  of  his  success  against.  Am- 
mon, he  should  still  remain  as  their  acknowledged  head. 
The  rude  hero  commenced  his  operations  with  a degree 
of  diplomatic  consideration  and  dignity  for  which  we 
are  not  prepared.  The  Ammonites  being  assembled  in 
force  for  one  of  those  ravaging  incursions  by  which  they* 
had  repeatedly  desolated  the  land,  he  sent  to  their  camp 
a formal  complaint  of  the  invasion,  and  a demand  of  the 
ground  of  their  proceeding.  This  is  highly  interesting, 
because  it  shows  that,  even  in  that  age,  a cause  for  war 
was  judged  necessary,  no  one  being  supposed  to  war 
without  provocation;  and,  in  this  case,  Jephthah  de- 
manded what  cause  the  Ammonites  alleged  to  justify 
their  aggressive  operations.  Their  answer  was,  that  the 
land  of  the  Israelites  beyond  the  Jordan  was  theirs.  It 
had  originally  belonged  to  them,  from  whom  it  had  been 
taken  by  the  Amorites,  who  had  been  dispossessed  by 
the  Israelites,  and  on  this  ground  they  claimed  the  res- 
titution of  these  lands.  Jephthah’s  reply  laid  down  the 
just  principle  which  has  been  followed  out  in  the  prac- 
tice of  civilized  nations,  and  is  maintained  by  all  the 
great  writers  on  the  law  of  nations.  The  land  belonged 
to  the  Israelites  by  right  of  conquest  from  the  actual 
possessors,  and  they  could  not  be  expected  to  recognise 
any  antecedent  claim  of  former  possessors,  for  whom 
they  had  not  acted,  who  had  rendered  them  no  assist- 
ance, and  who  had  themselves  displayed  hostility  against 
the  Israelites.  It  was  not  to  lie  expected  that  they 
would  conquer  the  country  from  the  powerful  kings 
who  had  it  in  possession,  for  the  mere  purpose  of  restor- 
ing it  to  the  ancient  occupants,  of  whom  they  had  no 
favorable  knowledge,  and  of  whose  previous  claims  they 


were  scarcely  cognizant.  But  the  Ammonites  reassert- 
ed their  former  views,  and  on  this  issue  they  took  the 
field.  Animated  by  a consciousness  of  divine  aid,  Jeph- 
thah hastened  to  meet  them,  defeated  them  in  several 
pitched  battles,  followed  them  with  great  slaughter, 
and  utterly  broke  their  dominion  over  the  eastern  Israel- 
ites (Jndg.  xi,  4-33).  See  Pagenstecher,  Jephtes  (Lem- 
go,  174G). 

The  victory  over  the  Ammonites  was  followed  by  a 
quarrel  with  the  proud  and  powerful  Ephraimites  on 
the  west  side  of  the  Jordan.  This  tribe  was  displeased 
at  having  had  no  share  in  the  glory  of  the  recent  victo- 
ry, and  a large  body  of  men  belonging  to  it,  who  had 
crossed  the  river  to  share  in  the  action,  nsed  very  high 
and  threatening  language  when  they  found  their  serv- 
ices were  not  required.  Jephthah,  finding  his  remon- 
strances had  no  effect,  reassembled  some  of  his  disband- 
ed troops  and  gave  the  Ephraimites  battle,  when  they 
were  defeated  with  immense  loss.  The  victors  seized 
the  fords  of  the  Jordan,  and,  when  any  one  came  to  pass 
over,  they  made  him  pronounce  the  word  “ Shibboleth” 
(an  ear  of  com)-,  but  if  he  could  not  give  the  aspira- 
tion, and  pronounced  the  word  as  “ Sibbolcth,”  they 
knew  him  for  an  Ephraimite,  and  slew  him  on  the  spot 
(Judg.  xii,  1-6). 

The  remainder  of  Jephthah’s  rule  was  peaceful,  and, 
at  his  death,  he  left  the  country  quiet  to  his  successor 
Ibzan.  He  was  buried  in  his  native  region,  in  one  of 
the  cities  of  Gilead  (Judg.  xii,  7). 

Jeimitiiah’s  Vow. — When  Jephthah  set  forth  against 
the  Ammonites,  he  solemnly  vowed  to  the  Lord,  “If 
thou  shalt  without  fail  deliver  the  children  of  Ammon 
into  my  hands,  then  it  shall  be  that  whatsoever  cometh 
forth  [i.e.  first]  of  the  doors  of  my  house  to  meet  me, 
when  I return  in  peace  from  the  children  of  Ammon, 
shall  surely  be  the  Lord’s,  and  I will  offer  it  up  for  a 
burnt-offering”  (Judg.  xi, 30,31).  He  u-as  victorious: 
the  Ammonites  sustained  a terrible  overthrow.  He  did 
return  in  peace  to  his  house  in  Mizpeh.  As  he  drew 
nigh  his  house,  the  one  that  came  forth  to  meet  him 
was  his  own  daughter  — his  only  child,  in  whom  his 
heart  was  bound  up.  She,  with  her  fair  companions, 
came  to  greet  the  triumphant  hero  “with  timbrels  and 
with  dances.”  But  he  no  sooner  saw  her  than  he  rent 
his  robes,  and  cried,  “Alas ! my  daughter,  thou  hast 
brought  me  very  low  ....  for  I have  opened  my  mouth 
unto  the  Lord,  and  cannot  go  back.”  Nor  did  she  ask 
it.  She  replied,  “My  father,  if  thou  hast  opened  thy 
mouth  unto  the  Lord,  do  to  me  according  to  that  which 
has  proceeded  out  of  thy  mouth,  forasmuch  as  the  Lord 
hath  taken  vengeance  for  thee  of  thine  enemies,  the 
children  of  Amnion.”  But,  after  a pause,  she  added, 
“Let  this  thing  be  done  for  me:  let  me  alone  two 
months,  that  I may  go  up  and  down  upon  the  moun- 
tains and  bewail  my  virginity,  I and  my  fellows.”  Iler 
father,  of  course,  assented,  and  when  the  time  expired 
she  returned,  and,  we  are  told,  “ he  did  with  her  accord- 
ing to  his  vow.”  It  is  then  added  that  it  became  “a 
custom  in  Israel  that  the  daughters  of  Israel  went  year- 
ly to  lament  the  daughter  of  Jephthah  the  Gileadite 
three  days  in  the  year”  (Judg.  xi,  34-40). 

Volumes  have  been  written  on  the  subject  of  “ Jeph- 
thah’s rash  vow,”  the  question  being  whether,  in  doing 
to  his  daughter  “according  to  his  vow,”  he  really  did 
offer  her  in  sacrifice,  or  whether  she  was  merely  doomed 
to  perpetual  celibacy. 

That  the  daughter  of  Jephthah  was  really  offered  up 
to  God  in  sacrifice — slain  by  the  hand  of  her  father  and 
then  burned — is  a horrible  conclusion,  but  one  which  it 
seems  impossible  to  avoid.  This  was  understood  to  be 
the  meaning  of  the  text  by  Jonathan  the  paraphrast, 
and  ltashi,  by  Josephus  (Ant.  v,  7, 10),  and  by  perhaps 
all  the  early  Christian  fathers,  as  Origen  (in  Joannem, 
tom.  vi,  cap.  3G),  Chrysostom  (Horn,  ad  pop,  A ntiochus, 
xiv,  3 ; Opp.  ii,  145),  Theodoret  (Qucpstiones  in  Judices , 
xx),  Jerome  (Ep.  ad  Jul.  118;  Opp.  i,  791,  etc.),  Au- 
gustine (Quastiones  in  Jud.  viii,  49;  Opp.  iii,  1,  G10); 


JEPIITIIAII 


819 


JEPIITIIAII 


so  also  in  the  Talmud  ( Tanchuma  to  Iieehu-Kothai , p. 
171)  and  Midrash  (R.  1,  § 71),  in  both  of  which  great 
astonishment  is  expressed  with  the  dealings  of  the  liigh- 
priest.  For  the  first  eleven  centuries  of  the  Christian  a;ra 
this  was  the  current,  perhaps  the  universal  opinion  of 
Jews  and  Christians.  Yet  none  of  them  extenuates  the 
act  of  Jephthah.  Josephus  calls  it  neither  lawful  nor 
pleasing  to  God.  Jewish  writers  say  that  he  ought  to 
have  referred  it  to  the  high-priest,  but  either  he  failed 
to  do  so,  or  the  high-priest  culpably  omitted  to  prevent 
the  rash  act.  Origen  strictly  coniines  his  praise  to  the 
heroism  of  Jephthah’s  daughter. 

The  other  interpretation  was  suggested  by  Joseph 
Kimchi.  lie  supposed  that,  instead  of  being  sacrificed, 
she  was  shut  up  in  a house  which  her  father  built  for 
the  purpose,  and  that  she  was  there  visited  by  the 
daughters  of  Israel  four  days  in  each  year  as  long  as  she 
lived.  This  interpretation  has  been  adopted  by  many 
eminent  men  — as  by  Levi  ben  - Gerson  and  Bcchai 
amongst  the  Jews,  and  by  Drusius,  Grotius,  Kstius,  De 
Dieu,  bishop  Hall,  'Watcrland,  Dr.  Hales,  and  others. 
More  names  of  the  same  period,  and  of  not  less  author- 
ity, might,  however,  be  adduced  on  the  other  side. 
Lightfoot  once  thought  ( Eriibkin , § 16)  that  Jephthah 
did  not  slay  his  daughter,  but,  upon  more  mature  reficc- 
tion,  he  came  to  the  opposite  conclusion  ( Harmony , etc. ; 
Judges  xi,  WorTcs,  i,  51). 

1.  The  advocates  for  the  actual  death  of  the  maiden 
contend  that  to  lice  unmarried  was  required  by  no  law, 
custom,  or  devotement  amongst  the  Jews : no  one  had  a 
right  to  impose  so  odious  a condition  on  another,  nor  is 
any  such  condition  implied  or  expressed  in  the  vow 
which  Jephthah  uttered.  It  is  certain  that  human 
sacrifice  was  deemed  meritorious  and  propitiatory  by 
the  neighboring  nations  [see  Sacrifice]  ; and,  consid- 
ering the  manner  of  life  the  hero  had  led,  the  recent 
idolatries  in  which  the  people  had  been  plunged,  and 
the  peculiarly  vague,  notions  of  the  tribes  beyond  the 
Jordan,  it  is  highly  probable  that  he  contemplated  from 
the  first  a human  sacrifice,  as  the  most  costly  offering  to 
God  known  to  him  (comp,  the  well-known  story  of  the 
immolation  of  Iphigenia,  Iliad,  ix,  141  sq.).  It  is  diffi- 
cult to  conceive  that  he  could  expect  any  other  creature 
than  a human  being  to  come  forth  out  of  the  door  of  his 
house  to  meet  him  on  his  return.  His  affliction  when 
Ins  daughter  actually  came  forth  is  quite  compatible 
with  the  idea  that  he  had  not  even  exempted  her  from 
the  sacredness  of  his  promise,  and  the  depth  of  that  af- 
fliction is  scarcely  reconcilable  with  any  other  alterna- 
tive than  the  actual  sacrifice.  In  that  case,  the  circum- 
stance that  she  “knew  no  man”  is  added  as  setting  in  a 
stronger  light  the  rashness  of  Jephthah  and  the  heroism 
of  his  daughter.  If  wre  look  at  the  text,  Jephthah  vows 
that  whatsoever  came  forth  from  the  door  of  his  house 
to  meet  him  “shall  surely  be  the  Lord’s,  and  [Kimchi’s 
rendering  ‘or’  is  a rare  and  harsh  one]  I will  offer  it  up 
for  a burnt-offering,”  which,  in  fact,  was  the  regular 
way  of  making  a thing  wholly  the  Lord’s.  Afterwards 
we  are  told  that  “ he  did  with  her  according  to  his  vow,” 
that  is,  according  to  the  plain  meaning  of  plain  words, 
offered  her  for  a burnt-offering.  (This  circumlocutory 
phrase,  and  the  omission  of  any  direct  term  expressive 
of  death,  are  attributed  to  euphemistic  motives.)  Then 
follows  the  intimation  that  the  daughters  of  Israel  la- 
mented her  four  days  every  year.  People  lament  the 
dead,  not  the  living.  The  whole  story  is  consistent  and 
intelligible  while  the  sacrifice  is  understood  to  have 
taken  place,  but  becomes  perplexed  and  difficult  as  soon 
as  we  begin  to  turn  aside  from  this  obvious  meaning  in 
search  of  recondite  explanations.  The  Jewish  com- 
mentators themselves  generally  admit  that  Jephthah 
really  sacrificed  his  daughter,  and  even  go  so  far  as  to 
allege  that  the  change  in  the  pontifical  dynasty  from 
the  house  of  Eleazar  to  that  of  Ithamar  was  caused  by 
the  high-priest  of  the  time  having  suffered  this  trans- 
action to  take  place.  It  is  true,  human  sacrifices  were 
forbidden  by  the  law ; but  in  the  rude  and  unsettled  age 


in  which  the  judges  lived,  when  the  Israelites  had  adopt- 
ed a vast  number  of  erroneous  notions  and  practices  from 
their  heathen  neighbors  (see  2 Kings  iii,  27),  many 
tilings  were  done,  even  by  good  men,  which  the  law  for- 
bade quite  as  positively  as  human  sacrifice.  Such,  for 
instance,  was  the  setting  up  of  the  altar  by  Gideon  at 
his  native  Ophrali  (Judg.  viii,  27),  in  direct  but  unde- 
signed opposition  to  one  of  the  most  stringent  enact- 
ments (Dcut.  vii)  of  the  Mosaical  code. — Ivitto ; Smith. 
(See  Kitto’s  Daily  Bible  1 Illustrations,  adloc.) 

2.  On  the  other  hand,  it  has  been  well  replied  that 
the  text  expressly,  and  in  varied  terms,  alludes  to  the 
obligation  of  the  girl  to  lead  a life  of  perpetual  virginity 
(ver.  37, 3H,  39).  Such  a state  was  generally  considered 
a calamity  by  the  Israelitish  women,  probably  on  ac- 
count of  the  early  prophecy  of  the  incarnation  (Gen.  iii, 
15).  See  Barrenness.  But,  besides  this,  the  celiba- 
cy of  Jephthah’s  daughter  involved  the  extinction  of 
his  whole  house  as  well  as  dynasty,  and  removed  from 
him  his  only  child,  the  sole  prop  and  solace  of  his  de- 
clining years.  For  it  was  her  duty,  as  the  Lord’s  prop- 
erty, to  dwell  separately  at  Shiloh,  in  constant  attend- 
ance on  the  service  of  the  sanctuary  (compare  Luke  iii, 
37 ; 1 Cor.  vii,  34),  far  from  her  father,  the  companions 
of  her  youth,  and  the  beloved  haunts  of  her  childhood ; 
all  this  was  sufficient  cause  for  lamentation.  But  the 
idea  that  she  was  put  to  death  by  her  father  as  a con- 
sequence of  his  vow  shocks  all  the  feelings  of  human- 
ity, could  only  have  horrified  her  as  well  as  all  other 
parties  concerned,  is  inconsistent  with  the  first  princi- 
ples of  the  Mosaic  law,  and  was  impossible  from  the 
very  nature  of  its  requisitions  in  several  points.  For 
instance,  human  sacrifices  were  among  the  abominations 
for  which  the  idolatrous  nations  of  Canaan  were  devoted 
to  destruction  (Dent,  xviii,  9-14);  and  the  Israelites 
were  expressly  forbidden  to  act  like  them  in  sacrificing 
their  sons  and  daughters  by  fire  (Dent,  xii,  29-31). 
Again,  for  the  redemption  of  any  person  devoted  to  God 
(Exod.  xiii,  11-13),  and  even  for  the  very  case  of  Jeph- 
thah’s singular  vow,  if  understood  to  refer  to  his  daugh- 
ter’s immolation-  provision  was  expressly  made  (Lev. 
xxvii,  2-5),  so  that  he  might,  with  a safe  conscience, 
have  redeemed  her  from  death  by  a small  payment  of 
money.  It  must  be  remembered,  too,  that  by  the  law 
he  could  not  offer  any  victim  as  a burnt-sacrifice  except 
where  the  Lord  had  chosen  to  place  his  name  (Dent, 
xvi,  2,  G,  11, 1G,  compare  with  Lev.  i,  2-13;  xvii,  3-9), 
that  is,  in  the  tabernacle  at  Shiloh  : moreover,  none  but 
a Levite  could  kill,  and  none  but  a priest  could  offer 
any  victim;  ami  the  statement  of  the  Chaldee  para- 
phrast  (ad  loc.)  that  the  sacrifice  took  place  through  a 
neglect  to  consult  IMiinehas,  the  high-pricst,  besides  in- 
volving an  anachronism,  is  utterly  at  variance  with  all 
the  known  conditions  of  the  case.  Moreover,  none  but 
a male  victim  could  be  presented  in  sacrifice  in  any 
case.  It  is  true  that  if  Jephthah  had  been  an  idolater 
he  might  have  offered  his  daughter  in  any  of  the  high- 
places  to  a false  god ; but  he  was  evidently  made  the 
deliverer  of  his  people  from  the  yoke  of  Ammon  because 
he  was  not  an  idolater  (see  Judg.  xi,  29-36 ; comp.  Lev. 
xx,  1-5) ; and  his  whole  conduct  is  commended  by  an 
inspired  apostle  (Heb.  xi,  32:  comp.  1 Sam.  xii,  11)  as 
an  act  of  faith  in  the  true  God.  Such  sanction  is  very 
different  from  the  express  condemnation  of  the  irregu- 
lar and  mischievous  proceeding  on  the  part  of  Gideon 
(Judg.  viii,  27),  for  there  is  nowhere  the  least  intima- 
tion that  Jephthah’s  conduct  was  other  than  entirely 
praiseworthy,  although  his  vow  is  evidently  recorded  as 
a warning  against  inconsiderate  oaths  (Jarvis’s  Church 
of  the  Bedeemed,  p.  115-117).  Indeed,  it  is  very  doubt- 
ful whether  he  had  the  power  to  sacrifice  his  daughter, 
and  it  is  incredible  that  she  should  have  been  the  first 
to  claim  the  fulfilment  of  such  a vow,  as  well  as  incon- 
ceivable how  she  should  have  so  readily  inferred  so  un- 
usual an  import  from  the  brief  terms  in  which  he  first 
intimated  to  her  his  fatal  pledge  (ver.  35,  36) ; whereas 
it  is  altogether- likely  that  (with  her  prompt  consent)  he 


JEPHUXNE  820  JEREMIAH 


hail  the  right  of  dooming  her  to  perpetual  singleness  of 
life  ami  religions  seclusion  (compare  1 Cor.  vii,  30-38). 
Sec  Nazamtk.  It  is  also  worthy  of  note  that  the 
term  employed  to  express  his  promise  of  devotement 
in  this  case  is  *n:,  ne’dtr,  a consecration,  and  not  C"n, 
che'rem,  destruction.  See  Vow;  Anathema.  Nor  ean 
we  suppose  (with  Prof.  Bush,  ad  loe.)  that  during  the 
two  months’  respite  he  obtained  better  information, 
in  consequence  of  which  the  immolation  was  avoided 
by  a ransom-price ; for  it  is  stated  that  he  literally  fid- 
tilled  his  vow,  whatever  it  was  (ver.  39).  The  word 
rendered  “lament”  in  verse  40  is  not  the  common  one 
(n:")  translated  “bewail”  in  verse  37,  38,  but  the  rare 
expression  (HIT)  rendered  “rehearse”  in  cli.  v,  11,  and 
meaning  to  celebrate,  as  implying  joy  rather  than  grief. 

For  a full  discussion  of  the  question,  see  the  notes  of 
the  Pictorial  Bible , and  Bush’s  Notes  on  Judges,  ad  loc. ; 
comp.  Calmet’s  Dissertation  sur  le  Yoeu  de  Jephte,  in  his 
Comment.  Litteral,  tom.  ii;  Dresde,  Yotum  Jephthee  ex 
Antiq.  Judaica  illustr.  (Lips.  1767,  1778);  Bamlolf,  Er- 
kldrung  d.  Geliibdes  Jephtha,  in  Eichhorn’s  Repertorium, 
viii,  13,  Lightfoot’s  Harmony,  under  Judg.  xi,  Erubhin, 
cap.  xvi,  Sermon  on  Judg.  xi,  39;  Bp.  Bussell’s  Connec- 
tion of  Sacred  and  Profane  History,  i,  479-492 ; Hales's 
Analysis  of  Chronology,  ii,  288-292 ; Gleig’s  edition  of 
Staekhouse,  ii,  97 ; Clarke’s  Commentary,  ad  loc. ; Bosen- 
miiller,  ad  loe.;  Hengstenberg’s  Pentat.  ii,  129;  Markii 
Dissert. phil.  theol.  p.  530 ; Michaelis,  M os.  Recht,  iii,  30 ; 
Ziegler,  Theolog.  A bhandl.  i,  337 ; Paulns,  Conservat.  ii, 
197 ; Yatke,  Bibl.  Theolog.  p.  275;  Capelins,  De  vo to  Jeph. 
(Salniur.  10*3) ; I)athe  in  Ddderlein’s  Theolog.  Bibl.  iii, 
327;  Jahn,  Einleit.  ii,  198,  Eckermann,  Theolog.  Beitr. 
V,  i,  62;  Belaud,  Antiq.  sacr.  iii,  10,  6,  p.  363;  Vogel  in 
Biedermann’s  Act.  scholast.  ii,  250;  Georgi,  De  voto 
Jephtce  (Yiteb.  1751);  Heuniann,  A or.  sylloge  dissert,  ii, 
476;  Bernhold,  De  voto  per  Jiphtach.  nuncupato  (Altd. 
1740) ; Schudt,  Vita  Jepht.  (droning.  1753),  ii,  77 ; Bru- 
no in  Eiehhorn’s  Repertor.  viii,  43 ; Buddiei  Hist.Y.T. 
i.  893 ; Hess,  Gesch.  Jos.  u.  der  Ueerfuhrer , ii,  156 ; Nie- 
mever,  Churakt.  iii,  496;  Ewald,  Isr.  Geschichte,  ii,  397 ; 
Selden,  Jus  nut.  et  gent,  i,  11 ; Anton,  Compared,  libror. 
Y.  T.  cet.  pt.  ii,  iii ; F.  Spanheim,  De  voto  Jephtlue,  in  his 
Disseii.  theol.  hist.  p.  135-211 ; H.  Benzel,  De  voto  Jepth. 
incruento  (Loud.  1732) ; Kathlef’s  Theol.  for  1755,  p.  414 ; 
Seiler,  Gemeinniitz.  Beitr.  1779,  p.  386;  Hasehe,  Ueber 
Jeph.  u.s.  Geltibde  (Uresd.  1778;  see  in  the  Dresden  An- 
zeig.  17n7)  ; Pfeiffer,  De  votoJephthie,  in  his  Opp.  p.  591 ; 
Tieroff,  id.  (Jena,  1657);  Munch,  id.  (Altd.  1740);  Bib. 
Repos.  Jan.  1843,  p.  143  sq. ; Meth.  Quart.  Rev.  October, 
1855,  p.  558  sq. ; Unirersedist  Review,  Jan.  1861  ; Evan- 
gelical Rev.  July,  1861 ; Cassel,  in  Herzog’s  Encykl.  s.  v. ; 
also  the  works  cited  by  Darling,  Cyclop,  col.  284. 

2.  See  Jii'iiTAH. 

Jephun'ne  (Tf^oimi/),  a Gra?eized  form  (Ecelus. 
xlvi,  7)  for  the  Hebrew  name  Jeimiunxeu  (q.  v.). 

J ephun'neh  (Ileb.  Yephunneh' , !"!!£*,  nimble),  the 
name  of  two  men. 

1.  (Sept,  ’letyovvii,  also  ’letpovg  and  ’le/povvij.)  The 
father  of  Caleb  (q.  v.),  the  faithful  fellow-explorer  of  Ca- 
naan with  Joshua,  in  which  paternal  connection  alone 
his  name  oeeurs  (Numb,  xiii,  6;  xiv,  6,  30,38;  xxvi, 
65;  xxxii,  12;  xxxiv,  19;  Dent,  i,  36;  Josli.  xiv,  6, 13, 
14 ; XV,  13 ; xxi,  12 ; 1 Chron. iv,  15;  vi. 56).  B.C.  1698. 

2.  (Sept,  ’ldpira.)  One  of  the  sons  of  Jether  or  lth- 
ran,  of  the  descendants  of  Asher  (1  Chron.  vii,  38).  B.C. 
prob.  ante  ft)  17. 

Je'rah  (Ileb.  Ye'rach,  rn*1,  in  pause  rnp,  Yu'rach, 
the  moon,  as  often;  Sept.  Tnp«y,  but  omits  in  1 Chron. 
i,  20,  where,  however,  some  copies  have  Ta£tp  ; Vulg. 
Jure),  the  fourth  in  order  of  the  sons  of  Joktan,  appar- 
ently the  founder  of  an  Arab  tribe,  who  probably  had 
their  settlement  near  Ilazannaveth  and  Hadoram,  be- 
tween which  the  name  occurs  (Gen.  x,  26),  the  general 
location  of  all  the  Joktanida?  being  given  in  verse  30  as 
extending  from  Mesh  a eastward  to  31  omit  Sephar.  Bo- 


ehart  ( Phaleg , ii,  19)  thinks  the  word  is  Hebrew,  but  a 
translation  of  an  equivalent  Arabic  name,  and  under- 
stands the  Alaleei  to  be  meant,  a tribe  inhabiting  the 
auriferous  region  on  the  Bed  Sea  (Agatliareh.  49;  Stra- 
bo, xvi,  p.  277;  Diod.  Sie.  iii,  44),  and  conjectures  that 
their  true  name  was  Benay  llailu,  “ Sons  of  the  Moon,” 
on  account  of  their  worship  of  that  luminary  under  the 
title  Alilat  (Herodotus,  iii,  8).  He  also  observes  that  a 
tribe  exists  near  Mecca  with  the  title  sons  of  the  moon, 
probably  the  Jlilalites  mentioned  by  Niebuhr  ( Descrip- 
tion of  A rabia,  p.  270).  That  the  Aliliei,  however,  were 
worshippers  of  Alilat  is  an  assumption  unsupported  by 
facts;  but,  whatever  may  be  said  in  its  favor,  the  people 
in  question  are  not  the  Bene-Hilal,  who  take  their 
name  from  a kinsman  of  Mohammed,  in  the  fifth  gen- 
eration before  him,  of  the  well-known  stock  of  Keys 
( Canssin,  Essai,  Tab.  X a ; Abu-l-Fida,  Hist,  unteisl.  td. 
Fleiseher,  p.  194).  The  connection  renders  the  opinion 
of  J.  D.  Michaelis  more  probable,  who  (Spicileg.  ii,  60, 
161 ) refers  the  name  to  the  Moon-coast,  or  Mount  of  the 
Moon,  in  the  neighborhood  of  Hadramant  (llazarma- 
vetli),  not  far  from  Shorma  (Edrisi,  p.26,27).  Poeocke 
has  some  remarks  on  the  subject  of  El-Latt,  which  the 
reader  may  consult  ( Spec . Hist.  Arab.  p.  90) ; and  also 
Sir  G.  Wilkinson,  in  his  notes  to  Herodotus  (ed.  Bawlin- 
son,  ii,  402,  foot-note,  and  Essay  i to  bk.  iii) : he  seems 
to  be  wrong,  however,  in  saying  that  the  Arabic  “ ‘ awel,’ 
‘first’”  [eorreetlv,  “ awwal”], is  “related  to”  bx,  or  Al- 
lah, ete.,  and  that  Alitta  and  Mylitta  are  Sliemitic 
names  derived  from  “ weled,  walada,  ‘ to  bear  children’  ” 
( Essay  i,  p.  537).  The  comparison  of  Alitta  and  My- 
litta  is  also  extremely  doubtful;  and  probably  Herodo- 
tus assimilated  the  former  name  to  the  latter.  Indeed, 
Jerah  has  not  been  satisfactorily  identified  with  the 
name  of  any  Arabian  place  or  tribe,  though  a fortress 
(and  probably  an  old  town,  like  the  numerous  fortified 
places  in  the  Yemen,  of  the  old  llimyerite  kingdom) 
named  Yerdkh  is  mentioned  as  belonging  to  the  district 
of  the  Nijjad  (Mardsid,  s.  v.  Yerakh),  which  is  in  Mah- 
reh,  at  the  extremity  of  the  Yemen  ( Kdmus ). — Gese- 
nius;  Smith.  See  Arabia. 

Jerah'meel  (Ileb.  Yerachmeel',  loving 

God  or  beloved  by  God),  the  name  of  three  men. 

1 (Sept.  Ipaptif  and  'ifpepeijX  v.  r.  'Dpapt/X  ) 
First-born  of  llezron,  brother  of  Caleb,  and  father  of 
Bam  (not  Aram),  of  the  tribe  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  ii,  9, 
25,  26,  27,  33,  42).  B.C.  ante  1658.  His  descendants 
were  called  Jerahmeelites  (Hebrew  Yerachmeeli 
Sept.  ’If( oipiijX  and  'Itpquu/X  v.  r.  'DpfpegX, 
1 Sam.  xxvii,  10;  xxx,  29). 

2.  (Sept.  ’IpapaiiX  v.  r.  'leoapn'iX.)  Son  of  Kish,  a 
Levite  whose  relationship  is  undefined  otherwise  (2 
Chron.  xxiv,  29).  B.C.  apparently  1014. 

3.  (Sept.  ’UpepitjX  v.  r.  ItpeptiiX.)  Son  of  llamme- 
leeh  (q.  v.),  one  of  the  two  persons  commanded  by  Jc- 
hoiakim  to  apprehend  Jeremiah  and  Baruch,  who  prov- 
identially escaped  (Jer.  xxxvi,  26).  B.C.  605. 

Jerah'meelite  (1  Sam.  xxvii,  10;  xxx,  29).  See 
Jeraiimeel,  1. 

Jer'echus  (’D'pfxof),  a Gneeized  form  (1  Esdr.  v, 
22)  of  the  name  of  the  city  of  Jericho  (q.  v.). 

Je'red  (a,  1 Chron.  i,  2;  b,  1 Chron.  iv,  18).  See 
Jared. 

Jer'emai  (Hebrew  Yeremay',  dwelling  in 

heights ; Sept,  'lepepi  v.  r.  ’lepapi),  one  of  the  “sons” 
of  Hashum,  who  divorced  his  Gentile  wife  after  the  re- 
turn from  Babylon  (Ezra  x,  33).  B.C.  459. 

Jerenri'ah  (Ileb.  Yirmeyah’,  rp\£“V),  often  in  the 
paragogie  form  mI-P‘2’^,  Yirmeya'hu,  especially  in  the 
book  of  Jeremiah  ; raised  up  [i.  e.  appointed]  by  Jeho- 
vah; Sept,  and  N.  T.'Iepipiag;  “Jeremias,"  Matt,  xvi, 
14;  “Jeremy,”  Matt,  ii,  17;  xxvii,  9;  but  in  this  last 
passage  it  probably  oeeurs  only  by  error  of  copyists ; see 
Zech.  xi,  12,  13),  the  name  of  eight  or  nine  men. 


JEREMIAII 


821 


JEREMIAII 


1.  The  fifth  in  rank  of  the  Gadite  braves  who  joined 
David’s  troop  in  the  wilderness  (1  Chron.  xii,  10).  15.C. 
1061. 

2.  The  tenth  of  the  same  band  of  adventurers  (1 
Chron.  xii,  13).  RC.  1061. 

3.  One  of  the  Benjamite  bowmen  and  slingers  who 
repaired  to  David  while  at  Ziklag  (1  Chron.  xii,  4).  15. 
C.  1058. 

4.  A chief  of  the  tribe  of  Manasseh  east,  apparently 
about  the  time  of  the  deportation  by  the  Assvrians  (1 
Chron.  v,  24).  B.C.  782. 

5.  A native  of  Libnali,  the  father  of  Ilamutal,  wife 
of  Josiah,  and  mother  of  Jehoahaz  and  Zedekiah  (2 
Kings  xxiii,  31 ; xxiv,  18).  B.C.  ante  632. 

6.  Son  of  Habaziniah,  and  father  of  Jaazaniah,  which 

last  was  one  of  the  Ileehabites  whom  the  prophet  tested 
with  the  offer  of  wine  (.lor.  xxxv,  3).  15.C.  ante  (506. 

7.  The  seeond  of  the  “greater  prophets”  of  the  O.T., 
a son  of  llilkiah,  a priest  of  Anathoth,  in  the  tribe  of 
Benjamin  (i,  1 ; comp,  xxxii,  6).  The  following  brief 
aeeount  of  the  prophet’s  career,  which  is  fully  detailed 
in  his  own  book,  is  chiefly  from  Kitto’s  Cyclopmlia. 

1.  Relatives  of  Jeremiah.  — Many  (among  ancient 
writers,  Clement.  Alex.,  Jerome;  among  moderns,  Eich- 
horn,  Calovius,  Maldonatus,  Von  Bolden,  etc.)  have  sup- 
posed that  his  father  was  the  high-priest  of  the  same 
name  (2  Kings  xxii,  8),  who  found  the  hook  of  the  law 
in  the  eighteenth  year  of  Josiah  (Umbreit,  Prakfischer 
Commentar  iiber  den  Jeremia,  p.  x).  This,  however, 
seems  improbable  on  several  grounds  (see  Carpzov,  In- 
trod.  iii,  130 ; also  Keil,  Ewald,  ete.)  : first,  there  is  noth- 
ing in  the  writings  of  Jeremiah  to  lead  us  to  think  that 
his  father  was  more  than  an  ordinary  priest  (“llilkiah 
[one]  of  the  priests,”  Jer.  i,  1);  again,  the  name  llil- 
kiah was  common  among  the  Jews  (see  2 Kings  xviii, 
13 ; 1 Chron.  vi,45;  xxvi,  1 1 ; Neh.  viii,  4 ; Jer.  xxix,  3) ; 
and,  lastly,  his  residence  at  Anathoth  is  evidence  that 
he  belonged  to  the  line  of  Abiatliar  (1  Kings  ii,  26-35), 
who  was  deposed  from  the  high-priest’s  office  by  Solo- 
mon : after  which  time  the  office  appears  to  have  re- 
mained in  the  line  of  Zadok. 

2.  History. — Jeremiah  was  very  young  when  the 
word  of  the  Lord  first  came  to  him  (i,  6).  This  event 
took  place  in  the  thirteenth  year  of  Josiah  (B.C.  628), 
while  the  youthful  prophet  still  lived  at  Anathoth.  It 
would  seem  that  he  remained  in  his  native  city  several 
years;  but  at  length,  in  order  to  escape  the  persecution 
of  his  fellow-townsmen  (xi,  21),  and  even  of  his  own 
family  (xii,  6),  as  well  as  to  have  a wider  field  for  his 
exertions,  he  left  Anathoth  and  took  up  his  resilience  at 
Jerusalem.  The  finiling  of  the  book  of  the  Law,  five 
years  after  the  commencement  of  his  predictions,  must 
have  produced  a powerful  infiuenee  on  the  mind  of  Jere- 
miah, and  king  Josiah  no  doubt  found  him  an  important 
ally  in  carrying  into  effect  the-  reformation  of  religious 
worship  (2  Kings  xxiii,  1-25).  B.C.  623.  During  the 
reign  of  this  monarch,  we  may  readily  believe  that  Jer- 
emiah would  he  in  no  way  molested  in  his  work;  and 
that  from  the  time  of  his  quitting  Anathoth  to  the 
eighteenth  year  of  his  ministry,  he  probably  uttered  his 
warnings  without  interruption,  though  with  little  suc- 
cess (see  eh.  xi).  Indeed,  the  reformation  itself  was 
nothing  more  than  the  forcible  repression  of  idolatrous 
and  heathen  rites,  and  the  re-establishment  of  the  ex- 
ternal service  of  God,  by  the  command  of  the  king.  No 
sooner,  therefore,  was  the  influence  of  the  court  on  be- 
half of  the  true  religion  withdrawn,  than  it  was  evident 
that  no  real  improvement  had  taken  plaee  in  the  minds 
of  the  people.  Jeremiah,  who  hitherto  was  at  least 
protected  by  the  influence  of  the  pious  king  Josiah,  soon 
became  the  object  of  attack,  as  he  must  doubtless  have 
long  been  the  object  of  dislike  to  those  whose  interests 
were  identified  with  the  corruptions  of  religion.  The 
death  of  this  prince  was  bewailed  hv  the  prophet  as  the 
precursor  of  the  divine  judgments  for  the  national  sins 
(2  Chron.  xxxv,  25).  B.C.  609.  See  Lamkntattons. 

We  hear  nothing  of  the  prophet  during  the  three 


months  which  constituted  the  short  reign  of  Jehoahaz; 
but  “ in  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  Jehoiakim”  (B.C. 
607)  the  prophet  was  interrupted  in  his  ministry  by 
“the  priests  and  the  prophets,”  who,  with  the  populace, 
brought  him  before  the  civil  authorities,  urging  that 
capital  punishment  should  be  inflicted  on  him  for  his 
threatenings  of  evil  on  the  city  unless  the  people  amend- 
ed their  ways  (eh.  xxvi).  The  princes  seem  to  have 
been  in  some  degree  aware  of  the  results  which  the  gen- 
eral corruption  was  bringing  on  the  state,  and  if  they 
did  not  themselves  yield  to  the  exhortations  of  the 
prophet,  they  acknowledged  that  he  spoke  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  and  were  quite  averse  from  so  openly  re- 
nouncing his  authority  as  to  put  his  messenger  to  death. 
It  appears,  however,  that  it  was  rather  owing  to  the 
personal  influence  of  one  or  two,  especially  Ahikam, 
than  to  any  general  feeling  favorable  to  Jeremiah,  that 
his  life  was  preserved ; and  it  would  seem  that  he  was 
then  either  placed  under  restraint,  or  else  was  in  so 
much  danger  from  the  animosity  of  his  adversaries  as 
to  make  it  prudent  for  him  not  to  appear  in  publie.  In 
the  fourth  year  of  Jehoiakim  (B.C.  605)  he  was  com- 
manded to  write  the  predictions  which  had  been  given 
through  him,  and  to  read  them  to  the  people.  From 
the  cause,  probably,  which  we  have  intimated  .above,  he 
was,  as  he  says,  “shut  up,”  and  could  not  himself  go 
into  the  house  of  the  Lord  (xxxvi,  5).  He  therefore 
deputed  Baruch  to  write  the  predictions  after  him,  and 
to  read  them  publicly  on  the  fast-day.  These  threat- 
enings being  thus  anew  made  public,  Baruch  was  sum- 
moned before  the  princes  to  give  an  account  of  the  man- 
ner in  whieh  the  roll  containing  them  had  come  into 
his  possession.  The  princes,  who,  without  strength  of 
principle  to  oppose  the  wickedness  of  the  king,  had  suf- 
ficient respect  for  religion,  as  well  as  sagacity  enough  lo 
discern  the  importance  of  listening  to  the  voice  of  God’s 
prophet,  advised  both  Barueh  and  Jeremiah  to  conceal 
themselves,  while  they  endeavored  to  infiuenee  the 
mind  of  the  king  by  reading  the  roll  to  him.  The  re- 
sult showed  that  their  precautions  were  not  needless. 
In  his  bold  self-will  and  reckless  daring  the  monarch 
refused  to  listen  to  any  advice,  even  though  eoming 
with  the  professed  sanction  of  the  Most  High.  Having 
read  three  or  four  leaves,  “he  cut  the  roll  with  the  pen- 
knife and  cast  it  into  the  fire  that  was  on  the  hearth, 
until  all  the  roll  was  consumed,”  and  gave  immediate 
orders  for  the  apprehension  of  Jeremiah  and  Barueh, 
who,  however,  were  both  preserved  from  the  vindictive 
monareh.  At  the  command  of  God  the  prophet  pro- 
cured another  roll,  in  which  he  wrote  all  that  was  in  the 
roll  destroyed  by  the  king,  “and  added  besides  unto 
them  many  like  words”  (xxxvi,  32).  See  Bahucii. 

Near  the  close  of  the  reign  of  Jehoiakim  (B.C.  599), 
and  during  the  short  reign  of  his  successor  Jehoiachin 
or  Jeeoniah  (B.C.  598),  we  rind  him  still  uttering  his 
voice  of  warning  (see  ch.  xiii,  18;  comp.  2 Kings  xxiv, 
12,  and  Jer.  xxii,  24-30),  though  without  effect;  and, 
after  witnessing  the  downfall  of  the  monarehs  whieh  he 
had  himself  predicted,  he  sent  a letter  of  condolence  and 
hope  to  those  who  shared  the  captivity  of  the  royal  fam- 
ily  (eh.  xxix-xxxi).  It  was  not  till  the  latter  part  of 
the  reign  of  Zedekiah  that  he  was  put  in  confinement, 
as  we  find  that  “they  had  not  put  him  into  prison” 
when  the  army  of  Nebuchadnezzar  commenced  the 
siege  of  Jerusalem  (xxxvii,  4,  5)  (B.C.  589).  On  the 
investment  of  the  eitv,  the  prophet  had  sent  a message 
to  the  king  declaring  what  would  be  the  fatal  issue, 
hut  this  had  so  little  effect,  that  the  slaves  who  had 
been  liberated  were  again  reduced  to  bondage  by  their 
fellow-citizens  (ch.  xxxiv).  Jeremiah  himself  was  in- 
carcerated in  the  court  of  the  prison  adjoining  the  palace, 
where  he  predicted  the  certain  return  from  the  impend- 
ing captivity  (xxxii,  33).  The  Chakhcans  drew  off 
their  army  for  a time  on  the  report  of  help  coming  from 
Egypt  to  the  besieged  city,  and  now,  feeling  the  danger 
to  be  imminent,  and  yet  a ray  of  hope  brightening  their 
prospects,  the  king  entreated  Jeremiah  to  pray  to  the 


822 


JEREMIAH 


JEREMIAII 


Lord  for  them.  The  hopes  of  the  king  were  not  re- 
sponded to  in  the  message  which  Jeremiah  received 
from  God.  lie  was  assured  that  the  Egyptian  army 
would  return  to  their  own  land,  that  the  Chakteans 
would  come  again,  and  that  they  would  take  the  city 
and  burn  it  with  tire  (xxxvii,  7,  8).  The  princes,  ap- 
parently irritated  by  a message  so  contrary  to  their 
wishes, 'made  the  departure  of  Jeremiah  from  the  city 
(jor  lie  appears  to  have  been  at  this  time  released  from 
confinement),  during  the  short  respite,  the  pretext,  for 
accusing  him  of  deserting  to  the  Chakkeans,  and  he  was 
forthwith  cast  into  prison,  where  he  might  have  perish- 
ed but  for  the  humanity  of  one  of  the  royal  eunuchs 
(xxxvii,  1 2-xxxviii,  13).  The  king  seems  to  have 
been  throughout  inclined  to  favor  the  prophet,  and 
sought  to  know  from  him  the  word  of  the  Lord ; but  he 
was  wholly  under  the  influence  of  the  princes,  and  dared 
not  communicate  with  him  except  in  secret  (xxxviii, 
14-28),  much  less  could  he  follow  advice  so  obnoxious 
to  their  views  as  that  which  the  prophet  gave.  Jere- 
miah, therefore,  more  from  the  hostility  of  the  princes 
than  the  inclination  of  the  king,  was  still  in  confinement 
when  the  city  was  taken,  B.C.  588.  Nebuchadnezzar 
formed  a more  just  estimate  of  his  character  and  of  the 
value  of  his  counsels,  and  gave  a special  charge  to  his 
captain,  Nebuzar-adan,  not  only  to  provide  for  him, 
but  to  follow  his  advice  (xxxix,  12).  lie  was  accord- 
ingly taken  from  the  prison  and  allowed  free  choice 
either  to  go  to  Babylon,  where  doubtless  he  would  have 
been  held  in  honor  in  the  royal  court,  or  to  remain  with 
his  own  people  (B.C.  587).  With  characteristic  patriot- 
ism he  went  to  Mizpah  with  Gedaliah,  whom  the  Bab- 
ylonian monarch  had  appointed  governor  of  Judaea,  and, 
after  his  murder,  sought  to  persuade  Jolianan,  who  was 
then  the  recognised  leader  of  the  people,  to  remain  in 
the  land,  assuring  him  and  the  people,  by  a message 
from  God  in  answer  to  their  inquiries,  that,  if  they  did 
so,  the  Lord  would  build  them  up,  but  if  they  went  to 
Egypt,  the  evils  which  they  sought  to  escape  should 
come  upon  them  there  (ch.  xlii).  The  people  refused 
to  attend  to  the  divine  message,  and,  under  the  com- 
mand of  Johanan,  went  into  Egypt,  taking  Jeremiah 
and  Baruch  along  with  them  (xliii,  G).  In  Egypt  the 
prophet  still  sought  to  turn  the  people  to  the  Lord, 
from  whom  they  had  so  long  and  so  deeply  revolted  (ch. 
xliv),  but  his  writings  give  ns  no  subsequent  informa- 
tion respecting  his  personal  history.  Ancient  traditions 
assert  that  he  spent  the  remainder  of  his  life  in  Egypt. 
According  to  the  pseudo-Epiphanius,  he  was  stoned  by 
the  people  at  Taphnte  (sn  Td^vaif),  the  same  as  Tah- 
pauhes,  where  the  Jews  were  settled  (De  T It  is  Prophet. 

ii,  239,  quoted  by  Eabricius,  Codex  Pseudepigraphus  V. 
T.  i,  11 10).  It  is  said  that  his  bones  were  removed  by 
Alexander  the  Great  to  Alexandria  (Carpzov,  Introd.  pt. 

iii, p.  138,  where  other  traditions  respecting  him  may  be 
found). 

JEREMIAH,  Book  ok.  Jeremiah  was  contempo- 
rary with  Zephaniah,  Ilabakkuk,  Ezekiel,  and  Daniel. 
No  one.  who  compares  them  can  fail  to  perceive  that 
the  mind  of  Jeremiah  was  of  a softer  and  more  delicate 
texture  than  that  of  his  illustrious  contemporary  Eze- 
kiel, with  whose  writings  his  are  most  nearly  parallel. 
1 1 is  whole  history  convinces  ns  that  lie  was  by  nature 
mild  and  retiring  (Ewald,  Propheten  ties  A It.  Bund.  p.  2), 
highly  susceptible  and  sensitive,  especially  to  sorrow- 
ful emotions,  and  rather  inclined,  as  we  should  imagine, 
to  shrink  from  danger  than  to  brave  it.  Yet,  with  this 
acute  perception  of  injury,  and  natural  repugnance  from 
being  “a  man  of  strife,”  he  never  in  the  least  degree 
shrinks  from  publicity;  nor  is  he  at  all  intimidated  by 
reproach  or  insult,  or  even  by  actual  punishment  and 
threatened  death,  when  he  has  the  message  of  God  to 
deliver. 

1.  The  style  of  Jeremiah  corresponds  with  this  view  of 
the  character  of  his  mini! : though  not  deficient  in  pow- 
er, it  is  peculiarly  marked  by  pathos.  He  delights  in 
the  expression  of  the  tender  emotions,  and  employs  all 


the  resources  of  his  imagination  to  excite  corresponding 
feelings  in  his  readers.  He  has  an  irresistible  sympa- 
thy with  the  miserable,  which  finds  utterance  in  the 
most  touching  descriptions  of  their  condition. 

The  style  of  Jeremiah  is  marked  by  the  peculiarities 
which  belong  to  the  later  Hebrew,  and  by  the  introduc- 
tion of  Aramaic  forms  (Eiehhorn,  Einleitung,  iii,  1 22 ; 
Gesenius,  Gesehichte  der  lleb.  Sprache,  p.  35).  It  was, 
we  imagine,  on  this  account  that  Jerome  complained  of 
a certain  rusticity  in  Jeremiah’s  style.  Lowth,  howev- 
er, says  he  can  discover  no  traces  of  it,  and  regards  Jer- 
emiah as  nearly  equal  in  sublimity  in  many  parts  to 
Isaiah  (De  Sacra  Poesi  lleb.  p.  42G). 

2.  The  canonicity  of  the  writings  of  Jeremiah  in  gen- 
eral are  established  both  by  the  testimony  of  ancient 
writers,  and  by  quotations  and  references  which  occur 
in  the  New  Testament.  Thus  the  son  of  Sirach  refers 
to  him  as  a prophet  consecrated  from  the  womb,  and 
quotes  from  Jer.  i,  10  the  commission  with  which  he 
was  intrusted  (Eeclus.  xlix,  7).  In  2 Maec.  ii,  1-8,  there 
is  a tradition  respecting  his  hiding  the  tabernacle  and 
the  ark  in  a rock,  in  which  he  is  called  “Jeremiah  the 
prophet.”  Philo  speaks  of  him  under  similar  titles, 
as  7rpo (p})r7]c,  pvanjQ,  hpoepavTijc,  and  calls  a passage 
which  lie  quotes  from  Jer.  iii,  4 an  oracle — ypjtr/icv 
(Eiehhorn,  Einleitung , i,  95).  Josephus  refers  to  him 
by  name  as  ttie  prophet  who  predieted  the  evils  which 
were  coming  on  the  city,  and  speaks  of  him  as  the  au- 
thor of  Lamentations  (pt\og  Spytajmcov)  which  are 
still  existing  (Ant.  x,  5, 1).  Ilis  writings  arc  included 
in  the  list  of  canonical  books  given  by  Melito,  Origcn 
(whose  words  are  remarkable:  Tfpfgi'of  rsvv  Sp/ji'ot£ 
Kut  Ti)  iTTiaroXy  tv  f m),  Jerome,  and  the  Talmud  (Eieh- 
horn, Einleitung , iii,  184).  In  the  New  Testament  Jere- 
miah is  referred  to  by  name  in  Matt,  ii,  17,  where  a pas- 
sage is  quoted  from  Jer.  xxxi,  15,  and  in  Matt,  xvi,  14; 
in  lleb.  viii,  8-12,  a passage  is  quoted  from  Jer.  xxxi, 
31-34.  There  is  one  other  place  in  which  the  name  of 
Jeremiah  occurs — Matt,  xxvii,  9 — which  has  occasioned 
considerable  difficulty,  because  the  passage  there  quoted 
is  not  found  in  the  extant  writings  of  the  prophet  (see 
Kuindl,  Com.  ad  loc.).  Jerome  affirms  that  he  found 
the  exact  passage  in  a Hebrew’  apocryphal  book  (Fabri- 
eius,  Codex  Pseuelepigraph ns,  i,  1103),  but  there  is  no 
proof  that  that  book  was  in  existence  before  the  time 
of  Christ.  It  is  probable  that  the  passage  intended  by 
Matthew  is  Zech.  xi,  12, 13,  which  in  part  corresponds 
with  the  quotation  he  gives,  and  that  the  name  is  a 
gloss  which  has  found  its  way  into  the  text  (see  Ols- 
hausen,  Commenfar  iiber  d.  X.  T<st.  ii.  493). 

3.  The  genuineness  of  some  portions  of  the  book  has 
of  late  been  disputed  by  German  critics.  Movers,  whose 
views  have  been  adopted  by  De  Wette  and  Ilitzig,  at- 
tributes x,  1-lfi,  and  ch.  xxx,  xxxi,  and  xxxiii  to  the 
author  of  the  coneluding  portion  of  the  book  of  Isaiah. 
Ilis  fundamental  argument  against  tlic  last-named  por- 
tion is,  that  the  prophet  Zechariah  (viii,  7,  8)  quotes 
from  Jer.  xxxi,  7, 8,  33,  and  in  verse  9 speaks  of  the  au- 
thor as  one  who  lived  “in  the  day  that  the  foundation 
of  the  house  of  the  Lord  of  hosts  was  laid.”  But  there 
is  nothing  in  ver.  7 and  8 of  Zechariah  to  prove  that  it 
is  intended  to  be  a quotation  from  any  written  prophe- 
cy, much  less  from  this  portion  of  Jeremiah.  Hence 
Ilitzig  ( Jeremia , p.  230)  gives  up  the  external  evidence 
on  wliich  Movers  had  relied.  The  internal  evidence 
arising  from  the  examination  of  particular  words  and 
phrases  is  so  slight,  especially  when  the  authenticity 
of  the  latter  portion  of  Isaiah  is  maintained,  that  even 
Ewald  agrees  that  the  chapters  in  question,  as  well  as 
the  other  passage  mentioned  (x,  1—1 G),  are  the  v'ork  of 
Jeremiah.  It  seems,  however,  not  improbable  that  the 
Chaldee  of  verse  11  is  a gloss  which  has  crept  into  the 
text,  both  because  it  is  (apparently  without  reason)  in 
another  language,  and  because  it  seems  to  interrupt  the 
progress  of  thought.  The  predictions  against  Babylon 
■ in  ch.  1 and  li  are  objected  to  by  Movers,  De  Wette,  and 
others  on  the  ground  that  they  contain  many  interpola- 


JEREMIAH 


823 


JEREMIAH 


tions.  Ewahl  attributes  them  to  some  unknown  proph-  ' again  divided  into  strophes  of  from  seven  to  nine  verses, 
et,  who  imitated  the  style  of  Jeremiah.  Their  authcn- 1 frequently  distinguished  by  sueh  a phrase  as  “The 
ticity  is  maintained  by  llitzig  (p.  301)  and  by  Umbreit  Lord  said  also  unto  me.”  These  separate  sections  are 
(p.  290-293),  to  whom  we  must  refer  lor  an  answer  to  arranged  by  Ewald  so  as  to  form  five  distinct  books:  I. 
tiie  objections  made  against  them.  The  last  chapter  is  The  introduction,  eh.  i.  II.  Reproofs  of  the  sins  of  the 
generally  regarded  as  an  appendix  added  by  some  later  Jews,  eh.  ii-xxiv,  consisting  of  seven  sections,  viz.  1.  ch. 
author.  It  is  almost  verbally  the  same  as  the  account  ii;  2.  ch.  iii-vi;  3.  ch.  vii-x;  4.  eh.  xi-xiii ; 5.  ch.  xiv- 


in  2 Kings  xxiv,  18 ; xxv,  30,  and  it  carries  the  history 
down  to  a later  period,  probably,  than  that  of  the  death 
of  Jeremiah.  That  it  is  not  his  work  seems  to  be  indi- 
cated in  the  last  verse  of  eh.  li.  (See  generally  llilver- 
niek’s  Einleitung , ii,  232,  etc.) 

4.  Much  difficulty  has  arisen  with  respect  to  the  wril- 


xvii,  18;  (!.  ch.  xvii,  19-xx;  7.  ch.  xxi-xxiv.  111.  A 
general  review  of  all  nations,  the  heathen  as  well  as  the 
people  of  Israel,  consisting  of  two  sections:  1.  ch.  xlvi- 
xlix  (which  he  thinks  have  been  transposed) ; 2.  chap, 
xxv,  and  a historical  appendix  of  three  sections:  1.  eh. 
xxvi ; 2.  ch.  xxvii ; and  3.  ch.  xxviii,  xxix.  IV.  Two 


ings  of  Jeremiah  from  the  apparent  disorder  in  which  sections  picturing  the  hopes  of  brighter  times:  1.  ch. 
they  stand  in  our  present  copies,  and  from  the  many  xxx,  xxxi;  and  2.  ch.  xxxii,  xxxiii ; to  which,  as  in  the 
disagreements  between  the  Hebrew  text  and  that  found  last  book,  is  added  a historical  appendix  in  three  sections : 
in  the  Septuagint  version,  and  many  conjectures  have  l.ch.  xxxiv,  1-7;  2.  ch.  xxxiv,8-22;  3.  ch.  xxxv.  V. 
been  hazarded  respecting  the  occasion  of  this  disorder.  The  conclusion, in  two  sections;  l.ch.  xxxvi;  2.  ch. xlv. 
The  following  are  the  principal  diversities  between  the  All  this,  he  supposes,  was  arranged  in  Palestine  during 
two  texts : the  short  interval  of  rest  between  the  taking  of  the  city 

(«.)  The  chapters  containing  prophecies  against  for-  and  the  departure  of  Jeremiah  with  the  remnant  of  the 
eign  nations  are  placed  in  a different  part  of  the  book,  Jews  to  Egypt,  in  Egypt,  alter  some  interval,  Jerc- 
and  the  prophecies  themselves  arranged  in  a different  miah  added  three  sections,  viz.  eh.  xxxvii,  xxxix,  xl- 
order,  as  in  the  following  table:  i xliii,  and  xliv.  At  the  same  time,  probably,  he  added 

xlvi,  13-2(5,  to  the  pre- 
vious prophecy  respect- 
ing Egypt,  and,  perhaps, 
made  some  additions  to 
other  parts  previously 
written. 

For  a purely  topical 
analysis  of  the  book,  see 
Ur. Davidson,  in  Horne’s 
Introd.  new  cd.  ii,  870  sq. 
The  exact  chronological 
position  of  some  of  the 
prophecies  is  exceeding- 
ly difficult  to  determine. 


Hebrew. 

Septuagint. 

Chronological. 

All  nations,  xxv,  14^38. 
Egypt,  xliii,  8-13. 

“ xliv,  1-30. 

“ xlvi,  1-28. 
Philistines,  xlvii,  1-7. 
IMoab,  xlviii,  1-17. 
Ammon,  xlix,  1-6. 
Edom,  xlix,  7-22. 
Damascus,  xlix,  23-27. 
Kedar,  xlix,  28-33. 
Elam,  xlix,  34-39. 
Babvlon,  1,1-46. 

P li,  1-64. 

Elam,  xxv,  end  (xlix,  34-39). 

Egypt,  xxvi,  entire  (xlvi,  1-28). 
Babylon,  xxvii,  entire  (1, 1-46). 

“ xxviii,  entire  (li,  1-64). 

Philistines,  xxix,  begin,  (xlvii,  1-7). 
Edom,  xxix,  end  (xlix,  7-22). 

Ammon,  xxx,  begin,  (xlix,  1-5). 

Kedar,  xxx,  middle  (xlix,  2S-33). 
Damascus,  xxx,  end  (xlix,  23-27). 
Moab,  xxxi,  entire  (xlviii,  1-44). 

All  nations,  xxxii,  entire  (xxv,  15^38). 
The  other  chaps,  (xxxiii-li)  follow  iu 
the  same  order  as  the  Jleb.  (xxvi- 
xlv). 

Egypt,  xlvi,  1-12.  B.C.  007. 

Surrounding  na- 
tions, xxv.  “ 607. 

Moab,  Ammon, 

Etlom,  Damas- 
cus, Kedar,  and 

Elam,  xlviii, 

xlix.  “ 595. 

Babylon,  1,  li.  “ 594 

Philistines,  xlvii.  “ 5S9. 

Egypt,  xliii,  S-13, 
xliv,  xlvi,  13-2S.  “ 5S7. 

(6.)  Various  passages  which  exist  in  the  Hebrew  are 
not  found  in  the  Greek  copies  (e.  g.  xxvii,  19-22 ; xxxiii, 
14-2(1 ; xxxix,  4-14 ; xlviii,  45-47).  Resides  these  dis- 
crepancies, there  are  numerous  omissions  and  frequent 
variations  of  single  words  and  phrases  (Movers,  I)e  utri- 
usque  Vuticiniorum  Jeremite  recensiotiis  indole  et  origine, 
p.  8-32).  To  explain  these  diversities,  recourse  has 
been  had  to  the  hypothesis  of  a double  recension,  a 
hypothesis  which,  with  various  modifications,  is  held 
by  most  modern  critics  (Movers,  nt  supra ; DeWelte, 
Lehrbuch  der  Ilist.-Crit.  Ebdeit.  in  d.  Alt.  Test.  p.  303; 
Ewald,  Propheten  des  Alt.  Bund,  ii,  23;  Keil,  Einleit.  p. 
300  sq. ; Wichelhaus,  J)e  Jerem'm  rers.  Alev.  Hal.  1847). 

Various  attempts  have  been  made  to  account  for  the 
present  (apparently)  disordered  arrangement  of  Jere- 
miah's predictions.  Rejecting  those  that  proceed  upon 
the  assumption  of  accident  (Blayney,  Notes,  p.  3)  or  the 
caprice  of  an  amanuensis  (Eichhorn,  End.  iii,  134),  we 
notice  that  of  Ewald  (with  which  Umbreit  substantially 
agrees,  Praktisch.  Comment,  fiber  den  Jeremia , p.  xxvii), 
who  finds  that  various  portions  are  prefaced  by  the 
same  formula,  “The  word  which  came  to  Jeremiah 
from  the  Lord”  (vli,  2 ; xi,  1 ; xviii,  1 ; xxi,  1 ; xxv,  1 ; 
xxx,  1 ; xxxii,  1 ; xxxiv,  1,  8;  xxxv,  1 ; xl,  1 ; xliv,  1), 
or  bv  the  very  similar  expression,  “The  word  of  the 
Lord  which  came  to  Jeremiah”  (xiv,  1 ; xlvi,  1 ; xlvii, 
1 ; xlix.  34).  The  notices  of  time  distinctly  mark  some 
other  divisions  which  are  more  or  less  historical  (xxvi. 
1 ; xxvii,  1 ; xxxvi,  1 ; xxxvii,  1).  Two  other  portions 
are  in  themselves  sufficiently  distinct  without  such  in- 


The  principal  predictions  relating  to  the  Messiah  are 
found  in  chapter  xxiii,  1-8;  xxx,  31-40;  xxxiii,  14-26 
(llengsteuberg’s  Christologie , iii,  495-619). — Kitlo. 

5.  The  following  are  the  special  exegetieal  works  on 
the  whole  of  Jeremiah’s  prophecies,  to  a few  of  the  most 
important  of  which  we  prefix  an  asterisk  [*]:  Origen, 
Ilomilm  (in  Opp.  iii,  125);  also  Selectu  (ibid,  iii,  287) ; 
Ephraem  Kyrus,  Explanatio  (Syriac  and  Lat.  in  Opp.  v, 
98) ; Jerome,  In  Jer.  (in  Opp.  iv,  833) ; Theodoret,  Inter- 
pretatio  (Greek,  in  Opp.  II,  i) ; Rabanus  Maurns,  Com- 
ment arii  (in  Opp.);  Rupertus  Tuitiensis,  In  1 Herein,  (in 
Opp.  i,  466) ; Thomas  Aquinas,  Commentarii  (in  Opp.  ii) ; 
Melancthon,  Argnmentmn  (in  Opp.  ii) ; Arama, 
etc.  [includ.  Isa.]  (Yen.  1608,  4to;  also  in  Frankfurter’s 
Iiabb.  Bible);  Zningle,  Complanatio  (Tiguri,  1531,  fol.; 
also  in  Opp.  iii);  (Ecolampadius,  Commentarii  [includ. 
Lam.]  (Argent.  1533,  4to);  Bugenliagen,  Adnotutiones 
(Vitemb.  1546,  4to);  Do  Castro,  Commcntarius  [includ. 
Lam.  and  Baruch]  (Par.  1559,  Mogunt.  1616,  fob);  Zi- 
chemius,  Enarrationes  (Colon.  1559,  8vo) ; Pintus,  Com- 
menturius  [includ.  Isa.  and  Lam.]  (Lugdun.  1561,  1584, 
1590,  Salmant.  1581,  fob);  Calvin.  Pmdect tones  (Genev. 
1563,  1576,  1589,  fob;  in  French,  ib.  1565,  fob;  trails,  in 
English  by  Owen,  Edinburgh,  1850, 5 vols.8vo) ; fStrigel, 
Condones  (Lips.  1566,  8vo);  tSeluecker,  Auslegnvg  (Lpz. 
1566,  4to) ; Bollinger,  Condones  (Tigurini,  1575,  folio); 
Taillepied,  Commentarius  (Par.  1583,4to);  Jlcillmumer, 
Qutest tones  (Lauing.  1586,  8vo);  Capella,  Commentaria 
(Tarracon.  1586,  4to);  Figuiero,  Paraphrasis  (Lugdun. 


dication  (xxix,  1 ; xlv,  1),  while  the  general  introduc-  1596,  8vo);  Brenz,  Commentaria  (in  Opp.  iv) ; Brough- 
tion  to  the  book  serves  for  the  section  contained  in  ch.  i.  j ton,  Commentarius  [includ.  Lam.]  (Geneva,  1606,  4to) ; 
There  are  left  two  sections  (chap,  ii,  iii),  the  former  of  Polan,  Commentarius  [includ.  Lam.]  (Basil.  1608,  8vo) ; 
which  has  only  the  shorter  introduction,  which  gener-  Sanctius,  Commentarius  [includ.  Lam.]  (Lugdun.  1618, 
ally  designates  the  commencement  of  a strophe;  while  fob) ; A Lapide,  In  Jerem.  etc.  (Antw.  1621, fob);  Ghis- 
the  latter,  as  it  now  stands,  seems  to  be  imperfect,  hav-  ler,  Commentarius  (Lugd.  1633,  3 vols.  fob);  De  Bcira, 
ing  as  an  introduction  merely  the  word  “saying.”  Thus  Considerationes  (Olyssip.  1633,  fob);  llulsemann,  Com- 
the  book  is  divided  into  twenty-three  separate  and  in-  mentariiis  [includ.  Lam.]  (Budolphop.  1663,  Lips.  1696, 
dependent  sections,  which,  in  the  poetical  parts,  are  4to) ; Forster,  Commentarius  (Vitemb.  1672,  1699,  4to) ; 


824 


JEREMIAH  II 


JEREMIAH 


Alting,  Commentarius  (Amst.  1G88,  folio;  also  in  Opp. 
649);  *Seb.  Schmidt,  Commentarius  (Argent.  1G85,  Fr. 
ad  M.  1697,  1705,  2 vols.  4to);  De  Sacy,  Explication  (in 
French,  Paris,  1691,  12mo)  ; Noordbeek,  Yitligginge 
(Franck.  1 701, 4to);  *Lowth,  Commentary  [includ.  Lam.] 
(Lond.  1718, 4to ; also  in  the  “ Commentary  of  Patrick,” 
etc.);  Petersen, Zeugniss  (Francf.  1719, 4to) ; Rapel, P re- 
dif/ten  (Lunenb.  1720,  1755,  2 vols.  4to);  Ittig,  Predigten 
(Dresden,  17*22, 4to);  Michaelis,  Observations  [on  parts, 
includ.  Lam.]  (Gotting.  1743,  4to) ; Burscher,  Erlauter- 
nny  (Leipzig,  175G,8vo) ; Yenema,  Commentarius  (Leov. 

1 765, 2 vols.4to) ; *Blayney,  Notes  [includ.  Lain.]  (Oxf. 
1784, 4to;  3d  ed.  Lond.’l83G,  8vo);  Schnurrer,  Observa- 
tions [on  parts]  (Tub.  1793-4,  4 pts.  4to;  also  in  Yelt- 
hnsen  et  cet.  Comment,  ii-iv) ; Leiste,  Observationes  [on 
parts]  (Gotting.  1794, 8vo,  and  also  in  Pott,  et  cet.  Com- 
ment. ii);  Spohn,  No  ten  (Lips.  1794-1824.  2 vols.  8vo); 
Yolborth,  Anmerkungen  (Celle,  1795,  8vo) ; Uhrich,  De 
Yatib.  sacris  (Dresden,  1797,  4to) ; Schulz,  Scholia  (No- 
rimburg,  1797,  8vo) ; Hensler,  Jiernerkungen  [on  parts] 
(Lpz.  1805,  8vo);  Dercser,  Erklarung  [includ.  Lam.  and 
Baruch]  (F.  ad  M.  1809,  8vo) ; Shalom-Kohen,  Ueber- 
setzung  [with  Hebrew  commentary]  ( Fiirth,  1810, 8vo)  ; 

* Horsley,  Notes  [including  Lam.]  (in  Bibl.  Crit.  ii,  1); 
Gaab,  Erklarung  [on  parts]  (Tub.  1824,  8vo) ; Roorda, 
Commentaria  [on  parts]  (Groning.  1824, 8vo);  *Dahler, 
Notes  (in  French,  Strasb.  1825-30, 2 vols.  8vo) ; *Rosen- 
miillcr,  Scholia  [including  Lam.]  (Lips.  182G-7,  2 vols. 
8vo) ; Movers,  Recensions  Jerem.  (I lamb.  1827,  8vo) ; 
Knobel,  De  Jerem.  Chuldaizante  (Y ratislav.  1831,  4to)  ; 
Kiiper,  J eremite  interpres  (Berlin,  1837,  8vo);  *IIitzig, 
Erklarung  (Leipzig,  1841,  8 vo);  *Umbreit,  Commentar 
(llamb.  i842,  8vo) ; *Henderson,  Commentary  [includ. 
Lam.]  (London,  1851, 12m o) ; Neumann,  A uslegung  [in- 
cluding Lam.]  (Lpz.  185G,  8vo);  Graf,  Erklarung  (Lpz. 
1862,  2 vols.  8vo) ; Cowles,  Notes  (N.  York,  18G9, 12mo). 
See  Phopuets. 

JEREMIAH,  Episti.e  of,  one  of  the  apocryphal 
writings,  purporting  to  proceed  from  the  pen  of  the 
prophet  Jeremiah  (q.  v.). 

1.  Title  and  Position. — This  apocryphal  piece,  which 
derives  its  title,  i mcr-oXi/  Itpegiov  (Sept.,Ynlg.,  Syriac, 
etc.),  from  purporting  to  be  an  epistle  sent  by  the  proph- 
et Jeremiah  “to  them  which  were  to  be  led  captive  to 
Babylon,”  has  different  positions  in  the  different  MSS. 
It  is  placed  after  the  Lamentations  in  Origen’s  Hcxa- 
plas,  according  to  the  Syriac  llexapla  codex  in  the  Am- 
brosian Library  at  Milan,  in  the  Cod.  Alex.,  the  Arabic 
versions,  etc. ; in  some  editions  of  the  Sept.,  in  the  Lat- 
in, and  the  Syriac,  which  was  followed  by  Luther,  the 
Zurich  Bible,  and  the  A.  Yers.  (“ Epistle  of  Jeremy ”),  it 
constitutes  the  sixth  chapter  of  the  apocryphal  book  of 
Baruch,  while  Thcodoret,  Hilary  of  Poitiers,  and  several 
MSS.  of  the  Sept,  entirely  omit  it.  It  is,  however,  an 
independent  production,  and  has  nothing  to  do  with 
Baruch.  See  Bakitcu,  Book  of. 

2.  Design  and  Contents. — The  design  of  this  epistle  is 
to  admonish  the  Jews  who  were  going  into  captivity 
with  the  king  to  beware  of  the  idolatry  which  they 
would  see  in  Babylon.  It  tells  the  people  of  God  not  to 
become  idolaters  like  the  strangers,  but  to  serve  their 
own  God,  whose  angel  is  with  them  (verse  1-7),  and  it. 
exposes  in  a rhetorical  declamation  the  folly  of  idolatry 
(verse  8-72),  concluding  every  group  of  verses,  which 
contains  a fresh  proof  of  its  folly,  with  the  reiterated  re- 
marks, “Seeing  that  they  are  no  gods,  fear  them  not” 
(ver.  1G,  23,  29,  66),  “ How  can  a man  think  that  they 
are  gods?”  (ver.  40, 44,  5G,  G4, 69),  “ How  can  a man  not 
see  that  they  are  not  gods?”  (ver.  49,  53). 

3.  A uthor,  Date , original  Language,  Canonicity,  etc. — 
The  inscription  claims  the  authorship  of  this  epistle  for 
Jeremiah,  who,  it  is  said,  wrote  it  just  as  the  .lews  were 
going  to  Babylon,  which  is  generally  reckoned  to  be  the 
first  year  of  Nebuchadnezzar  the  Great,  or  B.('.  GOG. 
This  is  the  general  opinion  of  the  Roman  Church,  which, 
as  a matter  of  course,  regards  it  as  canonical.  But  mod- 
ern critics,  both  Jewish  and  Christian,  who  deny  the 


power  to  any  Church  to  override  internal  evidence,  and 
defy  the  laws  of  criticism,  have  shown  satisfactorily  that 
its  original  language  is  Greek,  and  that  it  was  written 
by  Hellenistic  Jews  in  imitation  of  Jeremiah,  cli.  x and 
xxix.  This  is  corroborated  by  the  fact  that  this  epistle 
does  not  exist  in  the  Hebrew,  was  never  included  in  the 
Jewish  canon,  is  designated  by  Jerome,  who  knew  more 
than  any  father  what  the  Jewish  canon  contained,  as 
xVcnvct7iiyfta<paQ  {Proem.  Commentar.  in  Jlierom.'),  was 
marked  with  obeli  by  Origen  in  his  Hcxapla,  as  is  evi- 
dent from  the  note  of  Cod.  Chislianus  (Boooey  b\o£ 
w/SfXiorrn  koto,  rove  o),  and  was  passed  over  by  The- 
odoret,  though  he  explained  the  book  of  Baruch.  The 
date  of  this  epistle  cannot  be  definitely  settled.  It  is 
generally  supposed  that  2 Mace,  ii,  2 alludes  to  this  epis- 
tle, and  that  it  must,  therefore,  be  older  than  this  book 
of  Maccabees.  Herzfeld  {Geschichte  d.V.  Israel  ror  der 
Zerstorung  des  ersten  Tempels,  Brunswick,  1847,  p.  31G) 
infers  from  it  the  very  reverse,  namely,  that  this  epistle 
was  written  after  the  passage  in  2 Macc.,  while  Fritzsche 
and  Davidson  are  utterly  unable  to  see  the  appropriate- 
ness of  the  supposed  reference.  It  is  most  probable  that 
the  writer  lived  towards  the  end  of  the  Maccabsean  pe- 
riod. 

4.  Literature. — Amald,  A Critical  Commentary  on  the 
A pocryphal  Books,  being  a Continuation  of  Patrick  end 
Loicth  ; Eichhorn,  Einleitung  in  die  apokryph.  Schriften 
des  Alten  Testaments  (Lpz.  1795),  p.  390  sq. ; De  XVette, 
Einleit.  in  d.  Alte  Testament , sec.  324;  Fritzsche,  Kurz- 
gefasstes  exegetisches  Ilandbuch  z.  d.Apokr.  d.  Alten  Tes- 
tamentes,  part  i (Lpzg.  1851),  p.  205  sq. ; Keil,  Einleitung 
in  das  Alte  Testament  (1859),  p.  731  sq. ; Davidson,  The 
Text  of  the  Old  Testament  considered  (London,  185(5),  p. 
1038;  also  in  Horne’s  Introduction  (London,  185G),  ii, 
1038, 1039. — Kitto.  See  Apocrypha. 

JEREMIAII,  Lamentations  of.  See  Lamenta- 
tions of  Jeremiaii. 

8.  A priest  who  accompanied  Zerubbabel  from  Baby- 
lon to  Jerusalem  (Neli.  xii,  1).  B.C.  53G. 

9.  One  of  those  who  followed  the  princes  in  the  cir- 
cuit of  the  newly-repaired  walls  with  the  sound  of  trum- 
pets (verse  34);  apparently  the  same  with  one  of  the 
priests  who  subscribed  the  sacred  covenant  along  with 
Nehemiah  (Neli.  x,  2).  B.C.  44G-cir.  410.  He  was  pos- 
sibly identical  with  No.  8. 

Jeremiah  II,  patriarch  of  Constantinople,  was 
born  in  1536.  He  was  elected  patriarch  May  5,  1572; 
in  1579  he  was  driven  from  his  see,  but  after  the  death 
of  Metrophanes  (1580)  he  regained  his  position.  Short- 
ly after  he  was  imprisoned  by  order  of  the  sultan  on  a 
charge  of  high  treason.  Liberated  through  the  inter- 
vention of  the  ambassadors  of  France  and  Ycnice,  he 
was  again  exiled  to  Rhodes  in  1585.  Finally,  in  1587, 
he  was  again  reinstated  in  the  patriarchate  by  paying 
500  ducats  yearly  to  the  party  who  had  held  it  during 
his  exile.  The  Church  funds  had  been  so  reduced  in 
consequence  of  all  these  struggles  that  there  was  no 
money  to  meet  the  expenses  for  worship.  LTnder  these 
circumstances,  Jeremiah  was  obliged  to  seek  help  from 
the  czar,  in  return  for  which  he  was  obliged  to  create 
the  metropolitan  of  Moscow  a patriarch.  This  was  ac- 
cordingly done;  but,  Jeremiah  having  stopped  at  Kief 
on  his  return  to  Moscow,  a number  of  bishops,  who  had 
accompanied  him  on  his  journey,  and  who  had  vehe- 
mently opposed  his  course,  left  him,  and  joined  the 
Church  of  Rome.  Some  writers  say  that  Jeremiah  was 
persecuted  for  attempting  to  unite  the  Greek  and  the 
Latin  churches.  lie  was  the  patriarch  with  whom  the 
Tubingen  theologians  entered  into  a correspondence  in 
I 1573,  with  the  intention  to  bring  over  the  Greek  Church 
to  the  Reformers,  and  which  resulted,  as  is  well  known, 
in  the  rejection  of  Luther’s  doctrines  by  the  Greek 
Church.  (See  Chr.  F.  Schnurrer,  Orationes  acad.histo- 
riam  liter,  illustrantes , ed.  II.  E.  G.  Paulus,  Tub.  1828,  p. 
113  sq.).  Jeremiah  11  died  in  1594.  See  A eta  et  Scrip- 
fa  Theologorum  1 1 Ti rt ember gensium  et  Patriarch n>  Con- 
! stantinopolitani  D.  Jlieremiu:  (Wirtemberg,  1584);  Acta 


JEREMIAH 


825 


JERICIIO 


Orientalis  Ecclesicc  contra  Lutheri  heresim , monumentis, 
tiotis  ac  disserlationibus  illust rata  (Rome,  1739).  See 
also  Sobranie  Gosoudarst.  Gramot,  vol.  ii ; Ilaigold,  Bci- 
lagen  zum  neuveranderten  Russlarul  (Riga,  1709),  vol.  i ; 
Levesque,  Iiist.de  liussie,  iii,  117 ; Vicissitudes  de  VEglise 
lies  deuxcrites  en  Pologne  el  en  liussie,  i,  47) ; Document 
relatif  au  Pairiarcat  Moscovite  (Bar  is,  1857);  lloefcr, 
Nour.Biog.  Generate , xxvi,6G8.  See  Greek  Ciiurcii. 

Jeremiah,  archbishop  of  Sens,  flourished  in  the 
latter  half  of  the  8th  and  the  early  part  of  the  9tli  cen- 
tury. Hut  little  is  known  of  his  personal  history,  lie 
was  the  successor  of  Magnus  in  818  to  the  ecclesiastical 
office,  and  is  supposed  to  have  died  in  827.  See  Iloefer, 
Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxv,  067. 

Jeremi'as  (’lepe/nat;),  a Gnecized  form  of  the 
name  of  two  men. 

1.  Jeremiah  (q.  v.)  the  prophet  (Ecdus.  xlix,  6; 
2 Macc.  xv,  14;  Matt,  xvi,  14). 

2.  (1  Esdr.  ix,  34.)  See  Jeremai. 

Jer'emoth  (lleb.  Yeregmoth',  or  Yere- 

moth',  ni'an?,  heights),  the  name  of  several  men.  See 
also  Jerimotii. 

1.  (Sept.  ’lapigibS.}  The  last  named  of  the  three 
sons  of  Mushi,  grandson  of  Levi  (I  Chron.  xxiii,  23) ; 
called  Jerimotii  in  1 Chron.  xxiv,  30.  B.C.  post  1850. 

2.  (Sept.  ’ifpi/twS  v.  r.  ’Upt/iovS,  Vulg.  Jerimotii,  A. 
Y.  “ Jerimoth.”)  One  of  the  “sons”  of  Hecher,  son  of 
Benjamin  (1  Chron.  vii,  8).  B.C.  apparently  1017. 

3.  (Sept.  TtpqtwS.)  A Levite,  chief  of  the  fifteenth 
division  of  Temple  musicians  as  arranged  by  David  (1 
Chron.  xxv,  22);  probablv  the  same  called  Jerimotii 
in  ver.  4.  B.C.  1014. 

4.  (Sept.  ‘laatfiwS  v.  r.  ’Apqiw3.)  One  of  the  “ sons” 
of  Bcriah,  a Bcnjamite  (1  Chron.  viii.  14).  B.C.  appar. 
cir.  588. 

5.  (Sept.  ’ItpifxwS  v.  r.  T apifiibS.)  An  Israelite,  one 
of  the  “sons”  (?  inhabitants)  of  Elam,  who  divorced  his 
Gentile  wife  after  the  exile  (Ezra  x,  26).  B.C.  459. 

6.  (lapfitbS  v.  r.  ’Ap/aoS,  Yulg.  Jerimuth.)  Another 
Israelite,  one  of  the  “sons”  (V  inhabitants)  ofZattu,  who 
likewise  divorced  his  Gentile  wife  after  the  captivity 
(Ezra  x,  27).  B.C.  459. 

7.  (Ezra  x,  29,  “and  Bamoth”)  See  Ramotii. 

Jer'emy,  a familiar  form  (1  Esdr.  i,  28,  32,  47,  57 ; 

ii,  1 ; 2 Esdr.  ii,  18 ; Baruch  vi,  title ; 2 Macc.  ii,  1,  5,  7 ; 
Matt,  ii,  17;  xxvii,  9)  of  the  name  of  the  prophet  Jer- 
emiah (q.  v.). 

JEREMY,  Episti.e  of.  See  Jeremiah,  Epistle  of. 

Jeri'all  (lleb.  Yerigah',  TV***,  founded  by  Jehovah, 
otherwise  fearer  of  Jehovah,  1 Chron.  xxvi,  31 ; Sept. 
’luipiag  v.  r.  Toup(«£,  Yulg.  Jeria,  A.  Yers.  “ Jerijah  ;” 
also  in  the  paragogic  form  Yeriga'hn,  ; Sept.  'It- 

ptn  in  1 Chron.  xxiii,  19,  but  Tftitou  in  1 Chron.  xxiv, 
23;  Yulgate  Jeriuu,  Auth.  Yers.  “Jeriah”),  the  first  in 
rank  of  the  “sons”  of  Ilebron  in  the  Levitical  arrange- 
ments instituted  by  David  (1  Chron.  ut  sup.).  B.C.  1014. 

Jer'ibai  (lleb.  Yeribag',  contentious ; Sept. 

Tnrpt/3at  v.  r.  ’Iapi/3i),  a son  of  Elnaam,  and  (together 
with  his  brother  Joshaviah)  one  of  David’s  famous  body- 
guard (1  Chron.  xi,  46).  B.C.  1046. 

Jer'icho  (Heb.  Yericho',  TP"*),  place  of fragrance, 
prob.  from  balsamous  herbs  growing  there;  Josh,  ii,  1, 
2,  3;  iii.  16;  iv,  13, 19;  v,  10, 13;  vi,  1,  2,  25,  26;  vii,  2 ; 
viii,  2;  ix,  3;  x,  1.  28,  30;  xii,  9;  xiii,  32;  xvi,  1,  7; 
xviii,  12,  21 ; xx,  8 ; xxiv,  1 1 ; 2 Kings  ii,  4, 15,  18 ; also 
written  TT,  Yerecho',  Numb,  xxii,  1;  xxvi.  3.  63: 
xxxi,  12;  xxxiii,  48,  50;  xxxiv,  15;  xxxv,  1 : xxxvi, 
13;  Dent,  xxxii,  49;  xxxiv,  1,3;  2 Sam.  x,  5;  2 Kings 
xxv,  5;  1 Chron.  vi,  78;  xix,  5;  2 Chron.  xxviii,  15; 
Ezra  ii,  34;  Neh.  iii,  2;  vii,  36;  Jer.  xxxix,  5;  Iii,  8; 
once  “IT--,  Yerichoh',  1 Kings  xvi,  34;  Sept,  and  N. 
T.  Tfptyw,  Josephus  Tfpiyorg  [Gen.  -no croc] ; Strabo, 
xvi,  2, 41,  TtpiKowt; ; Ptolem.  v,  16,  7 ; 'Ifprocoug  ; Yulg. 


Jericho ; Justin.  I/ierickus),  a city  situated  in  a plain 
traversed  by  the  Jordan,  and  exactly  over  against  where 
that  river  was  crossed  by  the  Israelites  under  Joshua 
(Josh,  iii,  16).  It  is  first  mentioned  in  connection  with 
their  approach  to  Palestine ; they  “ pitched  in  the  plains 
of  Moab,  on  this  sidfc  Jordan  by  Jericho”  (Numb,  xxii, 
1).  It  was  then  a large  and  strong  city,  and  must  have 
existed  for  a long  period.  The  probability  is  that  on 
the  destruction  of  the  cities  of  the  plain  by  fire  from 
heaven  Jericho  was  founded,  and  perhaps  by  some  who 
had  resided  nearer  the  scene  of  the  catastrophe,  but  who 
abandoned  their  houses  in  fear.  Had  the  city  existed 
in  the  time  of  Abraham  and  Lot,  it  would  scarcely  have 
escaped  notice  when  the  latter  looked  down  on  the  plain 
of  Jordan  from  the  heights  of  Bethel  (Gen.  xiii).  From 
the  manner  in  which  it  is  referred  to,  and  the  frequency 
with  which  it  is  mentioned,  it  was  evidently  the  most 
important  city  in  the  Jordan  valley  at  the  time  of  the 
Exodus  (Numb,  xxxiv,  15;  xxxi,  12;  xxxv,  1,  etc.). 
Such  was  either  its  vicinity  or  the  extent  of  its  territory 
that  Gilgal,  which  formed  their  primary  encampment, 
stood  in  its  east  border  (Josh,  iv,  19).  That  it  had  a 
king  is  a very  secondary  consideration,  for  almost  every  ■ 
small  town  had  one  (xii,  9-24);  in  fact,  monarchy  was 
the  only  form  of  government  known  to  those  primitive 
times — the  government  of  the  people  of  God  presenting 
a marked  exception  to  prevailing  usage.  But  Jericho 
was  further  inclosed  by  walls — a fenced  city — its  walls 
were  so  considerable  that  at  least  one  person  (Bahab) 
had  a house  upon  them  (ii,  15),  and  its  gates  were  shut, 
as  throughout  the  East  still,  “when  it  was  dark”  (v, 5). 
Again,  the  spoil  that  was  found  in  it  betokened  its  af- 
fluence—Ai,  Makkedah,  Libnah,  Lachish,  Eglon,  He- 
bron, Debir,  and  even  Hazor,  evidently  contained  noth- 
ing worth  mentioning  in  comparison  — besides  sheep, 
oxen,  and  asses,  we  hear  of  vessels  of  brass  anil  iron. 
These  possibly  may  have  been  the  first-fruits  of  those 
brass  foundries  “in  the  plain  of  Jordan”  of  which  Solo- 
mon afterwards  so  largely  availed  himself  (2  Chron.  iv, 
17).  Silver  and  gold  were  found  in  such  abundance 
that  one  man  (Achan)  could  appropriate  stealthily  200 
shekels  (100  oz.  avoird.;  see  Lewis,  Heb.  Hep.  vi,  57)  of 
the  former,  and  “ a wedge  of  gold  of  50  shekels  (25  oz.) 
weight;”  “ a goodly  Babylonish  garment,”  purlonied  in 
the  same  dishonesty,  may  be  adduced  as  evidence  of  a 
then  existing  commerce  between  Jericho  and  the  far 
East  (Josh,  vi,  24;  vii,  21).  In  fact,  its  situation  alone 
— in  so  noble  a plain,  anil  contiguous  to  so  prolific  a 
river — would  bespeak  its  importance  in  a country  where 
these  natural  advantages  have  always  been  so  highly 
prized,  and  in  an  age  when  people  depended  so  much 
more  upon  the  indigenous  resources  of  nature  than  they 
are  compelled  to  do  now.  Jericho  was  the  city  to 
which  the  two  spies  were  sent  by  Joshua  from  Shittim  : 
they  were  lodged  in  the  house  of  Bahab  the  harlot  upon 
the  wall,  and  departed,  having  first  promised  to  save  her 
and  all  that  were  found  in  her  house  from  destruction 
(Josh,  ii,  1-21).  The  account  which  the  spies  received 
from  their  hostess  tended  much  to  encourage  the  subse- 
quent operations  of  the  Israelites,  as  it  showed  that  the 
inhabitants  of  the  country  were  greatly  alarmed  at  their 
advance,  and  the  signal  miracles  which  had  marked 
their  course  from  the  Nile  to  the  Jordan.  The  strange 
manner  in  which  Jericho  itself  was  taken  (see  Hacks, 
De  ruina  murorum  Jlierichvntiorum,  Jena,  1696)  must 
have  strengthened  this  impression  in  the  country,  and 
appears,  indeed,  to  have  been  designed  for  that  effect. 
The  town  was  utterly  destroyed  by  the  Israelites,  who 
pronounced  an  awful  curse  upon  whoever  should  rebuild 
it;  and  all  the  inhabitants  were  put  to  the  sword,  ex- 
cept Bahab  and  her  family  (Josh.  vi).  Her  house  was 
recognised  by  the  scarlet  line  bound  in  the  window  from 
which  the  spies  were  let  down,  and  she  and  her  relatives 
were  taken  out  of  it,  and  “lodged  without  the  camp;” 
but  it  is  nowhere  said  or  implied  that  her  house  escaped 
the  general  conflagration.  That  she  “dwelt  in  Israel” 
for  the  future;  that  she  married  Salmon,  son  of  Naas- 


JERICHO 


826 


JERICHO 


son  “ nrince  of  the  children  of  Judah,”  and  had  by  him  grance  (Justin,  xxxvi,  8 ; Josephus  Ant.  iv,  6,  1 ; xiv, 
Boaz,  the  husband  of  Ruth  and  progenitor  of  David  and  4,  1 ; xv,  4,  2 ; War,  i,  6,  6 ; i,  18,  »>  ^ isdom  herself 
of  our  Lord-  and  lastlv,  that  hers  is  the  first  and  only  did  not  disdain  comparison  with  the  rose-plants  of 
Gentile  name  that  appears  in  the  list  of  the  faithful  of  Jericho”  (Eeclus.  xxiv,  14).  Well  might  Strabo  (Geog. 
the  O T given  by  Laid  (Josh,  vi,  25;  1 Chron.  ii,  10;  xvi,  2,  § 41,  ed.  Muller)  conclude  that  its  revenues  were 
Matt  i 5 ■ Heb.  xi,  31)— all  these  facts  surely  indicate  considerable.  The  peculiar  productions  mentioned,  in 
that  she  did  not  continue  to  inhabit  the  accursed  site;  addition  to  those  noticed  above,  were  honey  (Ccdren.  p. 
and,  if  so.  and  in  the  absence  of  all  direct  evidence  from  104)  and,  in  later  times,  the  sugar-cane  (see  Robinson’s 
Scripture,  how  could  it  ever  have  been  inferred  that  her 


house  was  left  standing?  (See  Hoffmann,  Raliabs 
Erettung,  Berl.  1861.)  See  Rahab. 

Such  as  it  had  been  left  by  Joshua,  such  it  was  be- 
stowed by  him  upon  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  (Josh,  xviii, 
21 ; it  lay  also  on  the  border  of  Ephraim  [Josh,  xvi,  7]), 
and  from  this  time  a long  interval  elapses  before  Jeri- 
cho appears  again  upon  the  scene.  It  is  only  incident- 
ally mentioned  in  the  life  of  David  in  connection  with 
his  embassy  to  the  Ammonitish  king  (2  Sam.  x,  5).  The 
solemn  manner  in  which  its  second  foundation  under 
Iliel  the  Bethelite  is  recorded— upon  whom  the  curse 
of  Joshua  is  said  to  have  descended  in  full  force  (1  Kings 
xvi,  34)— would  certainly  seem  to  imply  that  up  to  that 
time  its  site  had  been  uninhabited.  It  is  true,  mention 
is  made  of  “a  city  of  palm-trees’’  (Judg.  i,  16,  and  iii, 
13)  in  existence  apparently  at  the  time  when  spoken  of, 


Researches,  ii,  290  sq.). 

By  the  Romans,  Jericho  was  first  visited  under  Pom- 
pey.  He  encamped  there  for  a single  night,  and  subse- 
quently destroyed  two  forts — Threx  and  Taurus — that 
commanded  its  approaches  (Strabo,  Geogr.  § 40).  Da- 
gon  (Josephus,  lEur,  i,  2, 3)  or  Docus  (1  Macc.  xvi,  15; 
comp,  ix,  50),  where  Ptolemy  assassinated  his  father-in- 
law,  Simon  the  Maccabee,  may  have  been  one  of  these 
strongholds,  which  were  afterwards  infested  by  banditti. 
Gabinius,  in  his  resettlement  of  Juda-a,  made  Jericho  one 
of  the  five  seats  of  assembly  (Josephus,  War,  i,  8,  5). 
With  Herod  the  Great  it  rose  to  still  greater  promi- 
nence: it  had  been  found  full  of  treasure  of  all  kinds; 
as  in  the  time  of  Joshua,  so  by  his  Roman  allies  who 
sacked  it  {ibid,  i,  15,  6) ; and  its  revenues  were  eagerly 
sought  and  rented  by  the  wily  tyrant  from  Cleopatra, 
to  whom  Antony  had  assigned  them  (Ant.  xv,  4,  2). 


and  Jericho  is  twice once  before  its  first  overthrow,  Not  long  afterwards  he  built  a fort  there,  which  he  call- 

and  once  after  its  second  foundation— designated  by  ed  “Cyprus,”  in  honor  of  his  mother  {ibid,  xvi,  5);  a 
that  name  (see  Dent,  xxxiv,  3,  and  2 Chron.  xxviii,  15) ; tower,  which  he  called,  in  honor  of  his  brother,  “Phasae- 
but  these  designations  must  be  understood  to  apply  only  lis ;”  and  a number  of  new  palaces,  superior  in  their 
to  the  site,  in  whatever  condition  at  the  time.  (On  the  construction  to  those  which  had  existed  there  previous- 
presence  of  these  trees,  see  below.)  However,  once  act-  ly,  which  he  named  after  his  friends.  He  even  founded 
ually  rebuilt,  Jericho  rose  again  slowly  in  importance,  a new  town  higher  up  the  plain,  which  he  called,  like 
In  its  immediate  vicinity  the  sons  of  the  prophets  sought  the  tower,  Phasaelis  ( War,  i,  21, 9).  If  he  did  not  make 
retirement  from  the  worid,  and  Elisha  “ healed  the  spring  Jericho  his  habitual  residence,  he  at  least  retired  thith- 
of  the  waters;”  and  over  and  against  it, beyond  Jordan,  er  to  die— and  to  be  mourned,  if  he  could  have  got  his 
Elijah  “ went  up  by  a whirlwind  into  heaven”  (2  Kings  plan  carried  out ; and  it  was  in  the  amphitheatre  of 
ii,  1-22).  In  its  plains  Zedekiali  felt  into  the  hands  of  Jericho  that  the  news  of  his  death  was  announced  to 
the  Chaldieans  (2  Kings  xxv,  5;  Jer.  xxxix,  5).  By  the  assembled  soldiers  and  people  by  Salome  ( War,  i, 
what  may  be  called  a retrospective  account  of  it,  we  38, 8).  Soon  afterwards  the  place  was  burned  and  the 
may  infer  that  Iliei’s  restoration  had  not  utterly  failed,  town  plundered  by  one  Simon,  a revolutionary  that  had 
for  in  the  return  under  Zerubbabel  the  “ children  of  Jer-  been  slave  to  Herod  {Ant.  xvii,  10,6);  but  Arche  laus 
icho,”345  in  number,  are  comprised  (Ezra  iii,  34;  Neh.  rebuilt  the  former  sumptuously,  founded  a new  town  in 
vii,  36);  and  it  is  even  implied  that  they  removed  the  plain,  that  bore  his  own  name,  and,  most  important  of 
thither  again,  for  the  men  of  Jericho  assisted  Neliemiah  all,  diverted  water  from  a village  called  Neaera  to  irrigate 
in  rebuilding  that  part  of  the  wall  of  Jerusalem  which  the  plain,  which  he  had  planted  with  palms  {Ant.  xvii, 
was  next  to  the  sheep-gate  (Neh.  iii,  2).  It  was  event-  13, 1).  Thus  Jericho  was  once  more  “a  city  of  palms’1 
ually  fortified  by  the  Syrian  general  Bacehides  (1  Macc.  when  our  Lord  visited  it.  As  the  city  that  had  so  ex- 
ix,  50 ; Josephus, . 1 nt.  xiii,  1 , 3).  ceptionallv  contributed  to  his  own  ancestry— as  the  city 

The  Jericho  of  the  days  of  Josephus  was  distant  150  which  had  been  the  first  to  fall,  amidst  so  much  cere- 
stadia  from  Jerusalem,  and  sixty  from  the  Jordan.  It  mony,  before  “the  captain  of  the  Lord’s  host  and  his 
lay  in  a plain  overhung  by  a barren  mountain,  whose  servant  Joshua” — we  may  well  suppose  that  his  eyes 
roots  ran  northward  towards  Scythopolis,  and  south-  surveyed  it  with  unwonted  interest.  It  is  supposed  to 
ward  in  the  direction  of  Sodom  and  the  Dead  Sea.  have  been  on  the  rocky  heights  overhanging  it  (hence 
These  formed  the  western  boundaries  of  the  plain,  called  by  tradition  the  Quarentana)  that  lie  was  assail- 
Eastward,  its  barriers  were  the  mountains  of  Moab,  ed  by  the  tempter ; and  over  against  it,  according  to 
which  ran  parallel  to  the  former.  In  the  midst  of  the  tradition  likewise,  he  had  been  previously  baptized -in 
plain— the  great  plain,  as  it  was  called — flowed  the  Jor-  the  Jordan.  Here  he  restored  sight  to  the  blind  (two 
dan,  and  at  the  top  and  bottom  of  it  were  two  lakes:  certainly,  perhaps  three  [Matt,  xx,  30;  Mark  x,  46]  : 
Tiberias,  proverbial  for  its  sweetness,  and  Asplialtites  for  this  was  in  leaving  Jericho ; Luke  says  “ as  he  was  come 
its  bitterness.  Away  from  the  Jordan,  it  was  parched  nigh  unto  Jericho,”  etc.  [xviii, 35]).  Here  the  deseend- 
and  unhealthy  during  summer;  but  during  winter,  even  ant  of  Rahah  did  not  disdain  the  hospitality  of  Zaccliaj- 
when  it  snowed  at  Jerusalem,  the  inhabitants  here  wore  us  the  publican — an  office  which  was  likely  to  be  lucra- 
linen  garments.  Hard  by  Jericho,  bursting  forth  close  tive  enough  in  so  rich  a city.  Finally,  between  Jerusa- 
to  the  site  of  the  old  city  which  Joshua  took  on  his  en-  lem  and  Jericho  was  laid  the  scene  of  his  story  of  the 
trance  into  Canaan,  was  a most  exuberant  fountain,  good  Samaritan,  which,  if  it  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  a 
whose  waters,  before  noted  for  their  contrary  proper-  real  occurrence  throughout,  at  least  derives  interest 
ties,  had  received  (proceeds  Josephus)  through  Elisha’s  from  the  fact  that  robbers  have  ever  been  the  terror  of 
prayers  their  then  wonderfully  salutary  and  prolific  efii-  that  precipitous  road  (comp.  Phocas,  ch.  20;  see  Schn- 
eacy.  Within  its  range — seventy  stadia  (Strabo  says  bert,  iii,  72);  and  so  formidable  had  they  proved  only 
100)  by  twenty — the  fertility  of  the  soil  was  unexam-  just  before  the  Christian  a?ra.  that  Pompey  had  been  in 
pled.  Palms  of  various  names  and  properties— some  duced  to  undertake  the  destruction  of  their  strongholds 
that  produced  honey  scarcely  inferior  to  that  of  the  (Strabo,  as  before,  xvi,  2,  §40;  comp.  Joseph.  Ant. xx, 6, 
neighborhood;  opobalsannun,  the  choicest  of  indigenous  1 sq.).  The  way  from  Jerusalem  to  Jericho  is  still  de- 
fruits; Cyprus  (Arabic  “el-lienna”),  and  myroba'anum  scribed  by  travellers  as  the  most  dangerous  about  Pal- 
(“zukkum”)  throve  there  beautifully,  and  thickly  dot-  estine.  (Sec  llackett’s  Illustra.  of  Script,  p.  206.)  As 
ted  about  the  pleasure-grounds  ( War,  iv,  8, 3).  These  lately  as  1820,  an  English  traveller.  Sir  Frederick  Hen- 
anil  other  aromatic  shrubs  were  here  of  peculiar  fra-  niker,  was  attacked  on  this  road  by  the  Arabs  with  fire- 


JERICHO 


827 


JERICHO 


arras,  who  stripped  him  naked  and  left  him  severely 
wounded. 

Posterior  to  the  Gospels,  Vespasian  found  it  one  of  the. 
toparcliies  of  Judaea  (ir«/*,  iii,  8,  5),  but  deserted  by  its 
inhabitants  in  a great  measure  when  he  encamped  there 
(ibul.  iv,  8,  2).  lie  left  a garrison  on  his  departure  (not 
necessarily  the  10th  legion,  which  is  only  stated  to  have 
marched  through  Jericho)  which  was  still  there  when 
Titus  advanced  upon  Jerusalem.  Is  it  asked  how  Jeri- 
cho was  destroyed?  Evidently  by  Vespasian ; for  Jo- 
sephus, rightly  understood,  is  not  so  silent  as  Dr.  Robin- 
son (Bibl.  Res.  i,  560,  2d  ed.)  thinks.  The  city  pillaged 
and  burnt  in  Josephus  (Hr«r  iv,  9, 1)  was  clearly  Jeri- 
cho, with  its  adjacent  villages,  and  not  Gerasa,  as  may 
be  seen  at  once  by  comparing  the  language  there  with 
that  of  8,  2,  and  the  agent  was  Vespasian.  Eusebius 
and  Jerome  ( Onomast . s.  v.)  say  that  it  was  destroyed 
when  Jerusalem  was  besieged  by  the  Romans.  They 
further  add  that  it  was  afterwards  rebuilt— they  do  not 
say  by  whom — and  still  existed  in  their  day;  nor  had  the 
ruins  of  the  two  preceding  cities  been  obliterated.  Could 
Hadrian  possibly  have  planted  a colony  there  when  he 
passed  through  Judaea  and  founded  .Elia?  (Dion  Cass. 
Hist,  lxix,  c.  II,  ed.  Sturz ; more  at  large  Ch ran.  Paschal. 
p.  254,  ed.  Du  Fresne.)  The  discovery  which  Origen 
made  there  of  a version  of  the  O.  T.  (the  5tli  in  his  Ilex- 
apla),  together  with  sundry  MSS.,  Greek  and  Hebrew, 
suggests  that  it  could  not  have  been  wholly  without  in- 
habitants (Euseb.  E.  IT.  vi,  16 ; Epiplian.  Lib.  de  Pond,  et 
JTensur.  circa  med.) ; or  again,  as  is  perhaps  more  prob- 
able, did  a Christian  settlement  arise  there  under  Con- 
stantine, when  baptisms  in  the  Jordan  began  to  be  the 
rage?  That  Jericho  became  an  episcopal  sec  about  that 
time  under  Jerusalem  appears  from  more  than  one  ancient 
Notitia  (Geograph.  S.  a Carolo  Paulo,  p. 806,  and  the  Par- 
ergon  appended  to  it;  comp.  William  of  Tyre,  Hist.  lib. 
xxiii,  adf.).  Its  bishops  subscribed  t > various  councils 
in  the  4th,  5th,  and  6th  centuries  (ibid.,  and  Le  Quien’s 
Oriens  Christian,  iii,  654).  Justinian,  we  arc  told,  re- 
stored a hospice  there,  and  likewise  a church  dedicated 
to  the  Virgin  (Procop.  De  ml  if.  v,  9).  As  early  as  A.D. 
837,  when  the  Bordeaux  pilgrim  (ed.  Wesseling)  visited 
it,  a house  existed  there  which  was  pointed  out,  after  the 
manner  of  those  days,  as  the  house  of  Rahab.  This  was 
roofless  when  Arculfus  saw  it;  and  not  only  so,  but  the 
third  city  was  likewise  in  ruins  (Adamn.  De  Locis  S.  ap. 
Migne,  Patrolog.  C.  lxxxviii,  799).  Had  Jericho  been 
visited  by  an  earthquake,  as  Antoninus  reports  (ap.  Ugo- 
lini  Thesa u /•.  vi i , p. m cc x i i i , and  note  to  c.  3),  and  as  Syria 
certainly  was,  in  the  27tli  year  of  Justinian,  A.l).  553?  j 
If  so,  we  can  well  understand  the  restorations  already  re-  | 
ferred  to;  and  when  Antoninus  adds  that  the  house  of  i 
Rahab  had  now  become  a hospice  and  oratory,  we  might  j 
almost  pronounce  that  this  was  the  very  hospice  which  [ 
had  been  restored  by  that  emperor.  Again,  it  may  be  j 
asked,  did  Christian  Jericho  receive  no  injury  from  the 
Persian  Bomizan,  the  ferocious  general  of  C'hosroes  II, 
A.D.614?  (Bar-Hebrjei  Chron.  p.  99,  Lat.  v.,  ed.  Kirsch). 
It  would  rather  seem  that  there  were  more  religious  edi- 
fices in  the  7th  than  in  the  6th  century  round  about  it. 
According  to  Arculfus,  one  church  marked  the  site  of  Gil- 
gal ; another  the  spot  where  our  Lord  was  supposed  to  j 
have  deposited  his  garments  previously  to  his  baptism ; I 
a third  within  the  precincts  of  a vast  monastery  dedica-  i 
ted  to  John,  situated  upon  some  rising  ground  overlook-  j 
ing  the  Jordan.  Jericho  meanwhile  had  disappeared 
as  a town  to  rise  no  more.  Churches  and  monasteries 
sprung  up  around  it  on  all  sides,  but  only  to  moulder 
away  in  their  turn.  The  anchorite  caves  in  the  rocky 
flanks  of  the  Quarentana  are  the  most  striking  memorial 
that  remains  of  early  or  medheval  enthusiasm.  Arculf- 
us speaks  of  a diminutive  race — Canaanites  he  calls  them 
— that  inhabited  the  plain  in  great  numbers  in  his  day. 
They  have  retained  possession  of  those  fairy  meadow- 
lands  ever  since,  and  have  made  their  head-quarters  for 
some  centuries  round  the  “square  tower  or  castle”  first 
mentioned  by  Willebraud  (ap.  Leon.  Allat.  2 vppac- . p.  j 


151)  in  A.D.  121 1,  when  it  was  inhabited  by  the  Saracens, 
whose  work  it  may  be  supposed  to  have  been,  though  it 
has  since  been  dignified  by  the  name  of  the  house  of  Zac- 
clianis.  Their  village  is  by  Brocardus  (ap.  Canis.  Thesaur. 
iv,  16),  in  A.D.  1280,  styled  “a  vile  place;”  by  Sir  J. 
Manndeville,  in  A.D.  1322,  “a  little  village;”  and  by 
Henry  Maundrell,  in  A.D.  1697,  “ a poor,  nasty  village;” 
in  which  verdict  all  modern  travellers  that  have  ever 
visited  it  must  concur.  (See  Eurhj  Travels  in  Pal.  by 
Wright,  ]).  177  and  451.)  They  are  looked  upon  by  the 
Arabs  as  a debased  race,  and  are  probably  nothing  more 
or  less  than  veritable  Gipsies,  who  are  still  to  be  met  with 
in  the  neighborhood  of  the  Frank  mountain  near  Jerusa- 
lem, and  on  the  heights  round  the  village  and  convent  of 
St.  John  in  the  desert,  and  are  still  called  “ Sconnmicati” 
by  the  native  Christians — one  of  the  names  applied  to 
them  when  they  first  attracted  notice  in  Europe  in  the 
15th  century  (i.e.  from  feigning  themselves  “penitents” 
and  under  censure  of  the  pope.  See  I Ioyland's  Historical 
Survey  of  the  Gipsies , p.  18;  also  The  Gipsy , a poem  by 
A.  P.  Stanley). 

Jericho  does  not  seem  to  have  ever  been  restored  as  a 
town  by  the  Crusaders;  but  its  plains  had  not  ceased  to 
be  prolific,  and  were  extensively  cultivated  and  laid  out 
in  vineyards  and  gardens  by  the  monks  (Phocas  ap.  Leon. 
Allat.  1vpptKT.[c.  20],  p. 31).  They  seem  to  have  been 
included  in  the  domains  of  the  patriarchate  of  Jerusalem, 
and,  as  such,  were  bestowed  by  Arnulf  upon  his  niece  as 
a dowry  (William  of  Tyre,  Hist,  xi,  15).  Twenlv-tive 
years  afterwards  we  find  Meliscndis,  wife  of  king  Fulco, 
assigning  them  to  the  convent  of  Bethanv,  which  she  bail 
founded  A.D.  1137. 

The  site  of  ancient  (the  first)  Jericho  is  with  reason 
placed  by  Dr.  Robinson  (Bibl.  Res.  i,  552-568)  in  the  im- 
mediate neighborhood  of  the  fountain  ofElisha ; and  that 
of  the  second  (the  city  of  the  New  Test,  and  of  Josephus) 
at  the  opening  of  the  wady  Kelt  (Cheritli),  half  an  hour 
from  the  fountain.  The  ancient,  and,  indeed,  the  only 
practicable  road  from  Jerusalem  zigzags  down  the  rug- 
ged and  bare  mountain  side,  close  to  the  south  bank  of 
wady  el-Ivelt,  one  of  the  most  sublime  ravines  in  Pales- 
tine. In  the  plain,  half  a mile  from  the  foot  of  the  pass, 
and  a short  distance  south  of  the  present  road,  is  an  im- 
mense reservoir,  now  dry,  and  round  it  are  extensive 
mins,  consisting  of  mounds  of  rubbish  and  ancient  foun- 
dations. Riding  northward,  similar  remains  were  seen 
on  both  sides  of  wady  el-Kclt.  Half  a mile  farther  north 
we  enter  cultivated  ground,  interspersed  with  clumps  of 
thorny  nubk  (“  lotc-trec”)  and  other  shrubs ; another  half 
mile  brings  us  to  Ain  es-Sultfin,  a large  fountain  burst- 
ing forth  from  the  foot  of  a mound.  The  water,  though 
warm,  is  sweet,  and  is  extensively  used  in  the  irrigation 
of  the  surrounding  plain.  The  whole  plain  immediately 
around  the  fountain  is  strewn  with  ancient  ruins  and 
heaps  of  rubbish. 

The  village  traditionally  identified  with  Jericho  now 
bears  the  name  of  Riha  (in  Arabic  er-Riha)  and  is  situ- 
ated about  the  middle  of  the  plain,  six  miles  west  from 
the  Jordan,  in  N.  lat.  34°  57',  and  E.  long.  35°  33'.  l)r. 
Olin  describes  the  present  village  as  “the  meanest  and 
foulest  of  Palestine.”  It  may  perhaps  contain  forty 
dwellings,  with  some  two  hundred  inhabitants.  The 
houses  consist  of  rough  walls  of  old  building -stones, 
roofed  with  straw  and  brushwood.  Each  has  in  front 
of  it  an  inclosure  for  cattle,  fenced  with  branches  of  the 
thoruy  nubk;  and  a stronger  fence  of  the  same  materi- 
al surrounds  the  whole  village,  forming  a rude  barrier 
against  the  raids  of  the  Bodawin.  Not  far  from  the  vil- 
lage is  a little  square  castle  or  tower,  evidently  of  Sara- 
cenic origin,  but  now  dignified  by  the  title  of  “the  house 
of  Zacehauis.”  This  village,  though  it  bears  the  name 
of  Jericho,  is  about  a mile  and  a Half  distant  both  from 
the  Jericho  of  the  prophets  and  that  of  the  evangelists. 
Yen’  probably  it  may  occupy  the  site  of  Gilgal  (q.  v.). 
The  ruinous  state  of  the  modern  houses  is  in  part  owing 
to  a comparatively  recent  event.  Ibrahim  Pasha,  on  his 
retreat  from  Damascus,  near  the  close  of  1840,  having 


JERIEL  828  JEROBOAM 


been  attacked  by  the  Arabs  in  crossing  the  Jordan,  sent  | 
a detachment  of  iiis  army  and  razed  Jericho  to  the  ground. 

The  soil  of  the  plain  is  unsurpassed  in  fertility;  there  I 
is  abundance  of  water  for  irrigation,  and  many  of  the  old 
aqueducts  are  almost  perfect ; yet  nearly  the  whole  plain  j 
is  waste  and  desolate.  The  grove  supplied  by  the  foun- 
tain is  in  the  distance.  The  few  fields  of  wheat  and  In- 
dian corn,  and  the  few  orchards  of  figs,  are  enough  to 
show  what  the  place  might  become  under  proper  culti- 
vation. But  the  people  arc  now  few  in  number,  indolent, 
and  licentious.  The  palms  which  gave  the  ancient  city 
a distinctive  appellation  are  gone:  even  that  “single 
solitary  palm”  which  Dr.  Robinson  saw  exists  no  more. 
The  climate  of  Jericho  is  exceedingly  hot  and  unhealthy. 
This  is  accounted  for  by  the  depression  of  the  plain, which 
is  about  1200  feet  below  the  level  of  the  sea.  The  reflec- 
tion of  the  sun’s  rays  from  the  bare  white  cliffs  and  moun- 
tain ranges  which  shut  in  the  plain,  and  the  noisome  ex- 
halations from  the  lake,  and  from  the  numerous  salt- 
springs  around  it,  are  enough  to  poison  the  atmosphere. 
— Smith;  Kitto. 

For  further  details  respecting  Jericho,  see  Iceland’s  Pa- 
fast.  p.  383, 829  sq. ; Lightfoot,  /lor.  lleb.  p.  85  sq. ; Otho’s 
Lex.Rabb.  p.  298  sq. ; Bachicne,  ii,  3,  § 224  sip ; Hames- 
vcldjii,  291  sq.;  Cellar. Xutif. ii, 552  sq. ; Robinson’s  Re- 
searches, ii,  267  sq.;  (Jlin’s  Travels, ii,  195  sq.;  Thomson, 
Land  and  Bool',  ii,  439  sq. 

Jeri'el  (Heb.  YerieV , fearer  of  God,  or  i.  q. 

Jeruel ; Sept.  ’Itpa’jX),  one  of  the  sons  of  Tola,  the  son 
of  Issachar,  mentioned  as  a valiant  chief  of  his  tribe, 
which  were  enrolled  in  the  time  of  David  (1  Chron.  vii, 
2).  B.C.  post  1856. 

Jeri'jall  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  31).  See  Jeriah. 

Jer'imoth  (Heb.  Yerimoth',  heights,  i.  q. 

Jeremotli),  the  name  of  several  men.  See  also  Jere- 
jioth. 

1.  (Sept.  Tep</tou^.)  One  of  the  five  sons  of  Bela, 
son  of  Benjamin,  a valiant  chief  of  his  tribe  (I  Chron. 
vii,  7).  B.C.  post  1856. 

2.  (Sept.  Tfpqua^.)  The  last  named  of  the  three 
sons  of  Mushi,  grandson  of  Levi  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  30) ; 
elsewhere  (1  Chron.  xxiii,  23)  called  Jeremotii  (q.v.). 

3.  (Sept.  TorpqiouS'  v.  r.  ’ApiyioS.)  One  of  the  fa- 
mous Benjamite  archers  and  slingers  that  joined  David’s  j 
band  at  Ziklag  (I  Chron.  xii,  5).  B.C.  1055. 

4.  (Sept.  ’ItotgovB  v.  r.  ’lepiyiaS.)  One  of  the  four- 
teen sons  of  lleman,  and  appointed  a Lcvitical  musician 
under  his  father  in  the  arrangement  of  the  sacred  ser- 
vices by  David  (I  Chron.  xxv,  4) ; probably  the  same 
elsewhere  (ver.  22)  called  Jeremotii. 

5.  (Sept.  TspijuouS  v.  r.  ’Itpi/no^J)  Son  of  Azriel, 
and  “captain”  of  Naphtali  under  David  and  Solomon  (1 
Chron.  xxvii,  19).  B.C.  1014. 

6.  (Sept.  ’EpgobSr  v.  r.  Tfni/iouS.)  A son  of  David, 
whose  daughter  Mahalath  was  Relioboam’s  first  wife  (2 
Chron.  xi,  18).  B.C.  ante  973.  lie  appears  to  have 
been  different  from  any  of  David’s  sons  elsewhere  enu- 
merated (2  Sam.  iii,  2-5 ; 1 Chron.  xiv,  4-7),  having, 
perhaps,  been  born  of  a concubine  (compare  2 Sam.  xvi, 
21).  See  David.  “This,  in  fact,  is  the  Jewish  tradi- 
tion respecting  his  maternity  (Jerome,  Qua’stiones,  ad 
loe.).  It  is,  however,  somewhat  questionable  whether 
Relioboam  would  have  married  the  grandchild  of  a con- 
cubine even  of  the  great  David.  The  passage  2 Chron. 
xi,  18  is  not  quite  clear,  since  the  word  ‘daughter’  is  a 
correction  of  the  Keri:  the  original  text  had  "p,  i.  e. 

‘ son’  ” (Smith). 

7.  (Sept.  Ttpijui 5$.)  A Levite,  one  of  the  overseers 
of  the  Temple  offerings  in  the  time  of  Ilezekiali  (2  Chron. 
xxxi,  13).  B.C.  726. 

J e'rioth  (Heb.  Yerioth',  timidity,  other- 

wise curtains;  ’IfpiwS),  a person  apparently  named  as 
the  latter  of  the  first  two  wives  of  Caleb,  son  of  Ilezron, 
several  children  being  mentioned  as  the  fruit  of  the  mar- 
riage with  one  or  the  other  (1  Chron.  ii,  18).  B.C.  post 


1856.  The  Vulgate  renders  this  as  the  son  of  Caleb  by 
the  first-mentioned  wife,  and  father  of  the  sons  named; 
but  contrary  to  the  Heb.  text,  which  is  closely  followed 
by  the  Sept.  There  is  probably  some  corruption ; pos- 
sibly the  name  in  question  is  an  interpolation : compare 
ver.  19;  or  perhaps  we  should  render  the  connective  1 
by  even,  thus  making  Jerioth  but  another  name  for 
Aznbah. 

Jerment,  George,  D.D.,  a minister  of  the  Secession 
Church  of  Scotland,  was  born  in  1759  at  Peebles,  Scot- 
land, where  his  father  was  at  the  time  pastor  of  a 
church  of  that  branch  of  the  Secession  Church  denom- 
inated before  their  union  in  1819  as  Anti-burgher.  On 
the  completion  of  his  collegiate  course  he  entered  the 
divinity  hall  of  his  denomination,  situated  at  Alloa,  and, 
while  a student  there,  took  a high  standing  in  his  class. 
After  preaching  a short  time  in  Scotland  he  went  to 
London,  to  become  the  colleague  of  Sir.  Wilson,  at  the 
Secession  Church  in  Bow  Lane,  Cheapside,  and  was  or- 
dained in  the  last  week  of  Sept.  1782.  In  the  English 
metropolis  Jerment.  was  well  received,  and  he  labored 
there  for  the  space  of  thirty-five  years,  his  preaching 
attracting  large  and  respectable  congregations  from  the 
Scottish  residents  of  London.  He  died  May  23,1819. 
“ His  character  stood  very  high  in  the  estimate  of  all 
who  knew  him,  as  a man  of  sense,  learning,  prudence, 
and  exalted  piety.”  He  was  one  of  the  first  directors 
of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  and  greatly  encour- 
aged the  enterprise.  The  writings  of  Jerment  intrusted 
to  the  press  are  mainly  public  lectures  and  sermons 
(London,  1791-1813).  Among  these  his  Early  Piety,  il- 
lustrated and  recommended  in  several  Discourses  ; and 
Religion,  a Monitor  to  the  Middle-aged  and  the  Glory  of 
old  Men,  deserve  to  occupy  a conspicuous  place.  See 
Mori  son,  Fathers  and  Founders  of  Lond.Miss,  Society,  p. 
506  sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Jerobo'am  (Heb.  Yai'obam',  increase  of 

the  ])eople;  Sept,  'lepoflody,  Josephus  'hpo/3 ('ayoc'), 
the  name  of  two  of  the  kings  of  the  separate  kingdom 
of  Israel. 

1.  The  son  of  Nebat  (by  which  title  he  is  usually  dis- 
tinguished in  the  record  of  his  infamy)  by  a woman 
named  Zeruah,  of  the  tribe  of  Ephraim  (1  Kings  xi,  26). 
He  was  the  founder  of  the  scliismatical  northern  king- 
dom, consisting  of  the  ten  tribes,  over  which  he  reigned 
twenty-two  (current)  years,  B.C.  973-951.  At  the  time 
he  first  appears  in  the  sacred  history  his  mother  was  a 
widow,  and  he  hail  already  been  noticed  by  Solomon  as 
a clever  and  active  young  man,  and  appointed  one  of 
the  superintendents  of  the  works  which  that  magnifi- 
cent king  was  carrying  on  at  Jerusalem,  having  special 
charge  of  the  services  required  of  the  leading  tribe  of 
Ephraim  (1  Kings  xi,  26-28 ; comp.  Josephus,  Ant.  viii, 
7,  7).  B.C.  1010-998.  This  appointment,  the  reward 
of  his  merits,  might  have  satisfied  his  ambition  had  not 
the  declaration  of  the  prophet  Ahijah  given  him  higher 
hopes.  When  informed  that,  by  the  divine  appoint- 
ment, he  was  to  become  king  over  the  ten  tribes  about 
to  be  rent  from  the  house  of  David,  he  was  not  content 
to  wait  patiently  for  the  death  of  Solomon,  but  began  to 
form  plots  and  conspiracies,  the  discovery  of  which  con- 
strained him  to  fiee  to  Egypt  to  escape  condign  punish- 
ment, B.C.  cir.  980.  The  king  of  that  country  was  but 
too  ready  to  encourage  one  whose  success  must  neces- 
sarily weaken  the  kingdom  which  had  become  great 
and  formidable  under  David  and  Solomon,  and  which 
had  already  pushed  its  frontier  to  the  Red  Sea  (1  Kings 
xi,  29-40). 

When  Solomon  died,  the  ten  tribes  sent  to  call  Jero- 
boam from  Egypt ; and  he  appears  to  have  headed  the 
deputation  that  came  before  the  son  of  Solomon  with 
a demand  of  new  securities  for  the  rights  w'hich  the 
measures  of  the  late  king  had  compromised.  It  may 
somew'hat  excuse  the  harsh  answer  of  Rehoboam  that 
the  demand  wras  urged  by  a body  of  men  headed  by  one 
whose  pretensions  were  so  well  known  and  so  odious  to 


JEROBOAM 


829 


JEROHAM 


the  house  of  David,  ft  cannot  be  denied  that,  in  making 
their  applications  thus  offensively,  they  struck  the  lirst 
blow,  although  it  is  possible  that  they,  in  the  first  in- 
stance, intended  to  use  the  presence  of  Jeroboam  for  no 
other  purpose  than  to  frighten  the  king  into  compliance. 
The  imprudent  answer  of  llehoboani  rendered  a revolu- 
tion inevitable,  and  Jeroboam  was  then  called  to  reign 
over  the  ten  tribes  by  the  style  of  “ King  of  Israel”  (1 
Kings  xii,  1-20).  Autumn,  B.C.  973.  See  Behohoam. 
(For  the  general  course  of  his  conduct  on  the  throne,  see 
the  article  Israel,  Kingdom  or.)  The  leading  object 
of  his  policy  was  to  widen  the  breach  between  the  two 
kingdoms,  and  to  rend  asunder  those  common  interests 
among  all  the  descendants  of  Jacob,  which  it  was  one 
great  object  of  the  law  to  combine  and  interlace.  To 
this  end  lie  scrupled  not  to  sacrifice  the  most  sacred  and 
inviolable  interests  and  obligations  of  the  covenant  peo- 
ple by  forbidding  his  subjects  to  resort  to  the  one  tem- 
ple and  altar  of  Jehovah  at  Jerusalem,  and  by  establish- 
ing shrines  at  Dan  and  Beth-el — the  extremities  of  his 
kingdom — where  “golden  calves”  were  set  up  as  the 
symbols  of  Jehovah,  to  which  the  people  were  enjoined 
to  resort  and  bring  their  offerings.  See  Cali*’,  Gold- 
en. The  pontificate  of  the  new  establishment  he  united 
to  his  crown,  in  imitation  ofthe  Egyptian  kings  (1  Kings 
xii,  26-33).  Tie  was  officiating  in  that  capacity  at  Beth- 
el, offering  incense,  when  a prophet.  (Josephus,  Jnf.viii, 
8,  5,  calls  him  Jadon,  i.  e.  probably  Iddo;  compare  Ant. 
viii,  15,  4;  Jerome,  Queest.  Ihbr.  on  2 Chron.  x,  4)  ap- 
peared, and  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  announced  a coming 
time,  as  yet  far  off,  in  which  a king  ofthe  house  of  Da- 
vid, Josiah  byname,  should  burn  upon  that  unholy  altar 
the  bones  of  its  ministers.  He  was  then  preparing  to 
verify,  by  a commissioned  prodigy,  the  truth  ofthe  ora- 
cle he  had  delivered,  when  the  king  attempted  to  arrest 
him,  but  was  smitten  with  palsy  in  the  arm  he  stretched 
forth.  At  the  same  time  the  threatened  prodigy  took 
place — the  altar  was  rent  asunder,  and  the  ashes  strewed 
tar  around.  Awe-struck  at  this  twofold  miracle,  the 
king  begged  the  prophet  to  intercede  with  God  for  the 
restoration  of  his  hand,  which  was  accordingly  healed 
(l  Kings  xiii,  1-6).  B.C.  973.  This  measure  had,  how- 
ever, no  abiding  effect.  The  policy  on  which  he  acted 
lay  too  deep  in  what  he  deemed  the  vital  interests  of 
his  separate  kingdom  to  be  even  thus  abandoned;  and 
the  force  of  the  considerations  which  determined  his 
conduct  may  in  part  be  appreciated  from  the  fact  that 
no  subsequent  king  of  Israel,  however  well  disposed  in 
other  respects,  ever  ventured  to  lay  a finger  on  this  schis- 
matieal  establishment  (1  Kings  xiii,  33,  34).  Hence 
“the  sin  of  Jeroboam,  the  son  of  Nebat,  wherewith  he 
sinned  and  made  Israel  to  sin,”  became  a standing 
phrase  in  describing  that  iniquity  from  which  no  king 
of  Israel  departed.  See  Idolatry. 

The  contumacy  of  Jeroboam  eventually  brought  upon 
him  the  doom  which  he  probably  dreaded  beyond  all 
others — the  speedy  extinction  of  the  dynasty  which  lie 
had  taken  so  much  pains  and  incurred  so  much  guilt  to 
establish  on  firm  foundations.  11  is  son  Abijah  being 
sick,  he  sent  his  wife,  disguised,  to  consult  the  prophet 
Abijah,  who  had  predicted  that  he  should  be  king  of 
Israel.  The  prophet,  although  he  had  become  blind 
with  age,  knew  the  queen,  and  saluted  her  with,  “Come 
in,  thou  wife  of  Jeroboam,  for  I am  sent  to  thee  with 
heavy  tidings.”  These  were  not  merely  that  the  son 
should  die — for  that  was  intended  in  mercy  to  one  who 
alone,  of  all  the  house  of  Jeroboam,  had  remained  faith- 
ful to  his  God,  and  was  the  only  one  who  should  obtain 
an  honored  grave — but  that  his  race  should  be  violently 
and  utterly  extinguished:  “I  will  take  away  the  rem- 
nant of  the  house  of  Jeroboam  as  a man  taketh  away 
dung,  till  it  be  all  gone”  (1  Kings  xiv,  1-18).  The  son 
died  as  soon  as  the  mother  crossed  the  threshold  on  her 
return;  and,  as  the  death  of  Jeroboam  himself  is  the 
next,  event  recorded,  it  would  seem  that  he  did  not  long 
survive  his  son  (1  Kings  xiv,  20).  B.C.  early  in  951. — 
Kitto.  (See  Kitto’s  Daily  Bible  Illustrations,  ad  loc.) 


“ Jeroboam  was  at  constant  war  with  the  house  of 
Judah,  but  the  only  act  distinctly  recorded  is  a battle 
with  Abijah,  son  of  Behoboam,  in  which,  in  spite  of  a 
skilful  ambush  made  by  Jeroboam,  and  of  much  supe- 
rior force,  he  was  defeated,  and  for  the  time  lost  three 
important  cities — lleth-el.  Jeshanah,  and  Ephraim.  The 
Targum  on  Until  iv,  20  mentions  Jeroboam’s  having 
stationed  guards  on  the  roads,  which  guards  had  been 
slain  by  the  people  of  Netophah ; but  what  is  here  al- 
luded to,  or  when  it  took  place,  we  have  at  present  no 
clew  to”  (Smith).  The  Sept,  has  a long  addition  to  the 
Biblical  account  (at  1 Kings  xii,  24),  evidently  taken 
from  some  apocryphal  source.  Josephus  simply  follows 
the  Hebrew  text.  (See  Cassel,  Konig  Jeroboam , Erfurt, 
1857.) 

2.  The  son  and  successor  of  Jchoash,  and  the  four- 
teenth king  of  Israel,  for  a period  of  forty-one  years,  B.C. 
823-782  (2  Kings  xiv,  23).  He  followed  the  example 
of  the  first  Jeroboam  in  keeping  up  the  idolatry  of  the 
golden  calves  (2  Kings  xiv,  24).  Nevertheless,  the  Lord 
had  pity  upon  Israel  (2  Kings  xiv,  26),  the  time  of  its 
ruin  had  not  yet  come,  and  this  reign  was  long  and 
flourishing,  being  contemporary  with  those  of  Amaziah 
(2  Kings  xiv,  23)  and  Uzziah  (2  Kings  xv,  1)  over  Ju- 
dah. Jeroboam  brought  to  a successful  result  the  wars 
which  his  father  had  undertaken,  and  was  always  vic- 
torious over  the  Syrians  (comp.  2 Kings  xiii,  4;  xiv,  26, 
27).  He  even  took  their  chief  cities  of  Damascus  (2 
Kings  xiv,  28;  Amos  i,  3-5)  and  Hamath,  which  had 
lormerly  been  subject  to  the  sceptre  of  David,  and  re- 
stored to  the  realm  of  Israel  the  ancient  eastern  limits 
from  Lebanon  to  the  Dead  Sea  (2  Kings  xiv,  25;  Amos 
vi,  14).  Ammon  and  Moab  were  reconquered  (Amos  i, 
13;  ii,  1-3);  the  Transjordanic  tribes  were  restored  to 
their  territory  (2  Kings  xiii,  5;  1 Chron.  v,  17-22).  But 
it  was  merely  an  outward  restoration.  The  sanctuary  at 
Beth-el  was  kept  up  in  royal  state  (Amos  vii,  13),  while 
drunkenness,  licentiousness,  and  oppression  prevailed  in 
the  country  (Amos  ii,  6-8;  iv,  1 ; vi,  6;  IIos.  iv,  12-14; 
5,  2),  and  idolatry  was  united  with  the  worship  of  Jeho- 
vah (Hos.  iv,  13";  xiii,  6).  During  this  reign  lived  the 
prophets  Ilosea  (IIos.  i,  1),  Joel  (comp.  Joel  iii,  16  with 
Amos  i,  12),  Amos  (Amos  i,  1),  and  Jonah  (2  Kings  xiv, 
25).  In  Amos  vii,  1 1 , Amaziah,  the  high-priest  of  Beth- 
el, in  reporting  what  he  called  the  conspiracy  of  Amos 
against  Jeroboam,  represents  the  prophet  as  declaring 
tliat  Jeroboam  should  die  by  the  sword ; and  some  would 
regard  this  as  a prophecy  that  had  failed  of  its  fulfil- 
ment, as  there  is  no  evidence  that  his  death  was  other 
than  natural,  for  he  was  buried  with  his  ancestors  in 
state  (2  Kings  xiv,  29),  although  the  interregnum  of 
eleven  years  which  intervened  before  the  accession  of 
his  son  Zechariali  (2  Kings  xiv,  23,  comp,  with  xv,  8) 
argues  some  political  disorder  at  the  time  of  his  death 
(see  the  Sin  dim  vml  Kritiken , 1847,  iii,  648).  But  the 
probability  rather  is  that' the  high-priest,  who  displayed 
the  true  spirit  of  a persecutor,  gave  an  unduly  specific 
and  offensive  turn  to  the  words  of  Amos,  in  order  to  in- 
flame Jeroboam  the  more  against  him.  The  only  pas- 
sages of  Scripture  where  his  name  occurs  are  2 Kings 
xiii, 13;  xiv,  16,  23, 27.  28, 29;  xv,  1,8;  1 Chron.  v,  17; 
Dos.  i,  1 ; Amos  i,  1 ; vii,  9, 10, 11 ; in  all  others  the  for- 
mer Jeroboam  is  intended.  See  Israel,  kingdom  of. 

JeroTiam  (lleb.  Yerocharn',  cherished),  the 

name  of  several  men. 

1.  (Sept.  *lfpr/if»)\,  Tfpo/3o«/t,  Tforrqu.)  The  son 
of  Elihu  (Eliah,  Eliel),  and  father  of  Elkanah,  Samuel's 
father  (1  Sam.  i.  1 ; 1 Chron.  vi.  27,34).  B.C.  ante  1142. 

2.  (Sept,  ’if pong  v.  r.  Tpod/t.)  An  inhabitant  of 
Gedor.  and  hither  of  Joelali  and  Zebadiah,  two  of  the 
Benjamite  archers  who  joined  David’s  band  at  Ziklag 
(1  Chron.  xii.  7).  B.C.  ante  1055. 

3.  (Sept.  Twod/i  v.  r.  ’Iowd/L)  The  father  of  Aza- 
reel,  which  latter  was  “captain”  of  the  tribe  of  Dan  un- 
der David  and  Solomon  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  22).  B.C. 
ante  1017. 


JEROME 


830 


JEROME 


4 ("Sent  ’I iopdu  ) Father  of  Azariah,  which  latter  j lations  from  the  writings  of  the  early  Greek  fathers, 
is  the  first  'mentioned  of  the  two  of  that  name  among  I among  which  the  most  important  are  the  Chronicle  of 
the  “captains  of  hundreds-’  with  whom  Jehoiada  plan-  | 
ned  the  restoration  of  prince  Jehoasli  to  the  throne  (2 
Chron.  xxiii,  1).  B.C.  ante  870. 

5.  (Sept.  \tpodp.  v.  r.  I poop.)  The  father  of  sev- 
eral Benjamite  chiefs  resident  at  Jerusalem  (1  Chron. 
viii,  27).  B.C.  apparently  ante  588.  See  No.  6. 

6.  (Sept,  'Itpodp  v.  r.  Upof3oap.)  The  father  of  Ib- 
neiaii,  which  latter  was  one  of  the  Benjamite  chiefs  res- 
ident* at  Jerusalem  (1  Chron.  ix,  8).  B.C.  apparently 
ante  530.  Possibly  identical  with  the  preceding. 

7.  (Sept,  \tpadp  v.  r.  Io adfi.)  The  son  of  Pashur, 
and  father  of  Adaiah,  which  last  was  one  of  the  chief 
priests  resident  at  Jerusalem  (1  Chron.  ix,  12).  B.C. 
apparently  ante  536. 

8.  (Sept.  'It  pod  pi)  The  son  of  Pelaliah,  and  father 
of  Adaiah,  which  last  was  one  of  the  chief  priests  resi- 
dent at  Jerusalem  after  the  Exile  (Nell,  xi,  12).  B.C. 
ante  440.  Perhaps,  however,  this  Jeroliam  was  the 
same  with  No.  7. 

Jerome  (fully  Latinized  Sophronius  Eusebius  Hie- 
ronymus),  generally  known  as  Saint  Jekosie,  one  of 
the  most  learned  and  able  among  the  fathers  of  the 
Western  Church,  was  born  at  Stridon,  a town  on  the 
confines  of  Dalmatia  anil  Pannonia  (but  whose  site  is 
now  unknown,  as  the  place  whs  destroyed  by  the  Goths 
in  A.D.  377),  at  some  period  between  331  and  345 — ac- 
cording to  Schaff,  it  probably  occurred  near  345.  Ilis 
parents  were  both  Christians.  1 lis  early  education  was 
superintended  bv  his  father,  after  which  lie  studied 
Greek  and  Latin  rhetoric  and  philosophy  under  .Elius  nastieism.  Everywhere  lie  extolled  the  merit  of  that 
Donatus  at  Pome.  While  a resident  in  this  Christian  i mode  of  life,  though  it  had  hitherto  found  few  ad- 
city  he  was  admitted  to  the  rite  of  baptism,  and  decided  I vocates  at  Pome,  and  the  clergy  had  even  violently 
to  devote  his  life,  in  rigid  abstinence,  to  the  service  of  j opposed  it.  He  commended  monastic  seclusion  even 
his  Master.  It  seems  uncertain  whether  a visit  which  j against  the  will  of  parents,  interpreting  the  word  of 


among  whien  tne  most  important  £ 

Eusebius,  and  the  homilies  of  Origen  on  Jeremiah  and 
Ezekiel.  It  cost  Jerome  no  small  sacrifice  to  tear  him- 
self away  from  his  friend  and  instructor  to  return  in  382 
to  Pome  as  mediator  in  the  Meletian  schism,  which 
greatly  agitated  the  Church  of  Antioch  at  this  time. 
In  a council  which  was  convened  at  Pome  Jerome  took 
a prominent  part,  and  afterwards  acted  as  secretary  to 
the  Roman  pontiff.  By  his  adherence  to  Damasus,  a 
close  friendship  sprang  up  between  these  two  great 
men,  which  was  broken  only  by  the  death  of  the  pon- 
tiff. Some  writers  have  criticised  the  conduct  of  Je- 
rome against  the  Eastern  churches,  and  believe  that 
Damasus  purchased  the  influence  of  Jerome  for  his 
party;  but  for  this  opinion,  as  well  as  for  that  of  others, 
that  the  domineering  manner  of  Damasus  made  Jerome 
pliant  and  servile,  there  are  no  good  grounds;  indeed, 
Jerome  was  too  independent  and  determined  in  char- 
acter ever  to  be  swayed  in  his  opinion  by  the  will  of 
others.  It  is  more  likely  that  the  flattery  -which  Dam- 
asus bestowed  on  Jerome  by  recognising  his  abilities  as 
superior,  and  urging  him  to  undertake  those  vast  ex- 
egetical  labors  which  finally  resulted  in  presenting  the 
Church  with  a revised  Latin  version  of  the  Bible  (see 
below  on  the  Vidr/cite),  was  what  drew  Jerome  to  Dam- 
asus, and  made  him  one  of  the  bishop's  most  faithful 
adherents. 

Jerome’s  fame  as  a man  of  eloquence,  learning,  and 
sanctity  was  at  this  period  in  its  zenith,  and  he  im- 
proved his  advantages  to  further  the  interests  of  mo- 


lie  made  to  Gaul  ivas  undertaken  before  or  after  this 
important  event.  At  any  rate,  about  370  we  find  him 
at  Treves  and  at  Aquileia,  busy  in  transcribing  the  eom- 


the  Lord  about  forsaking  father  and  mother  as  if  mo- 
nastieism  and  Christianity  were  the  same.  “Though 
thy  mother,  with  flow  ing  hair  and  rent  garments,  should 


mentaries  of  Hilarius  on  the  Psalms,  and  a work  on  the  1 show  thee  the  breasts  which  have  nourished  thee; 
synods  by  the  same  author;  and  in  composing  his  first  , though  thy  father  should  lie  upon  the  threshold;  yet 
theological  essay,  lie  mttliere  sepfies  percussa,  the  letter  1 depart  thou,  treading  over  thy  father,  and  fly  with  dry 
to  Innocentius.  * In  373  he  set  out  on  a journey  to  the  eyes  to  the  standard  of  the  cross.  . . . The  love  of 
East,  in  company  with  his  friends  Innocentius,  Evagri-  God  and  the  fear  of  hell  easily  rend  the  bonds  of 
us,  and  Ileliodorns,  and  finally  settled  for  a time  at  An-  ! the  household  asunder.  The  holy  Scripture  indeed 
tioch.  During  his  residence  at  this  place  he  was  seized  j enjoins  obedience  to  parents,  but  he  who  loves  them 
with  a severe  fever,  and  in  a dream  which  he  had  in  I more  than  Christ  loses  his  soul.  . . . O desert,  where 
this  sickness  he  fancied  himself  called  before  the  judg-  I the  flowers  of  Christ  are  blooming!  O solitude,  where 
meat  bar  of  God,  and  as  a heathen  Ciceronian  (lie  had  | the  stones  for  the  new  Jerusalem  are  prepared  ! O re- 
hitherto  given  much  of  his  time  to  the  study  of  the  : treat,  which  rejoices  in  the  friendship  of  God!  What 
classical  writers)  so  severely  reprimanded  and  scourged  doest  thou  in  the  world,  my  brother,  with  thy  soul 
that  even. the  angels  interceded  for  him  from  sympathy  ] greater  than  the  world?  How  long  wilt  thou  remain 
with  his  youth,  and  he  himself  was  led  to  take  the  sol-  , in  the  shadow-  of  roofs,  and  in  the  smoky  dungeon  of 
emu  vow  hereafter  to  forsake  the  study  anil  reading  of  ] cities?  Believe  me,  I see  here  more  of  the  light”  (Ep. 
worldly  books,  a pledge  which,  however,  he  did  not  ad-  j xiv).  Many  pious  persons  placed  themselves  under  his 
here  to  in  after  life.  A markell  religious  fervor  thence-  j spiritual  direction;  “even  the  senator  Pammaehius, 
forth  animated  Jerome;  a devotion  to  monastic  hab-  I son-in-law  to  Paula  (one  of  Jerome’s  most  celebrated 
its  became  the  ruling  principle,  wre  might  say  the  female  converts),  and  heir  to  a fortune,  gave  his  goods 
ruling  passion  of  his  iife  he  retired  to  the  desert  of  ! to  the  poor,  exchanged  the  purple  for  the  cowl,  exposed 
Chaleio  in  374,  and  there  spent  four  years  in  penitential  j himself  to  the  mockery  of  his  colleagues,  and  became, 
exercises  and  in  study,  paying  particular  attention  to  ! in  the  flattering  language  of  Jerome,  the  general-in- 
t lie  acquirement  of  the  Hebrew  tongue.  But  his  active  ' chief  of  Roman  monks,  the  first  of  monks  in  the  first  of 
and  restless  spirit  soon  brought  him  again  upon  the  cities”  (Schaff,  ii,  211).  Ilis  converts  for  the  monastic 
public  stage,  and  involved  him  in  all  the  doctrinal  and  life  w’ere,  however,  mainly  of  the  female  sex,  and  mostly 
ecclesiastical  controversies  of  those  controversial  times,  daughters  and  widow’s  of  the  most  i veal  thy  and  honora- 
See  Meukth’s.  In  379  lie  was  ordained  a preshyter  by  ble  classes  of  Rome.  These  patrician  converts  “lie 
bishop  Pauliuus  in  Antioch,  without  receiving  charge  gathered  as  a select  circle  around  him;  he  expounded 
of  a congregation,  as  he  preferred  the  itinerant  life  of  to  them  the  holy  Scriptures,  in  which  some  of  those 
a monk  and  student  to  a fixed  office.  About  380  he  Roman  ladies  were  very  wrell  read;  he  answered  their 
journeyed  to  Constantinople,  where,  although  past  a questions  of  conscience ; he  incited  them  to  celibate  life, 
student’s  age,  he  was  not  ashamed  to  take  his  seat  at  lavish  beneficence,  and  enthusiastic  asceticism ; amlflat- 
r.e  tjie  celebrated  Gregory  Nazianzen,  and  to  tered  their  spiritual  vanity  by  extravagant  praises,  lie 
! anti-Arian  sermons  of  this  learned  father  | was  the  oracle,  biographer,  admirer,  and  eulogist  of 


the  feet  of 
listen  to  the 

of  the  Church.  Indeed,  the  pupil  and  instructor  soon 
became  great  friends ; and  there  resulted  from  his  Study 
of  the  Greek  language  and  literature,  to  which  much  of 
his  time  and  attention  was  here  devoted,  several  trans- 


these  holy  women,  who  constituted  the  spiritual  nobility 
of  Cathoiie  Rome.”  . . . But  “his  intimacy  with  these 
distinguished  women,  whom  he  admired  more,  perhaps, 
than  they  admired  him,  together  w-itli  his  unsparing  at- 


JEROME 


831 


JEROME 


tacks  upon  the  immoralities  of  the  Homan  clergy  ami 
of  the  higher  classes,  drew  upon  him  much  unjust  cen- 
sure and  groundless  calumny,  which  he  met  rather  with 
indignant  scorn  and  satire  than  with  quiet  dignity  and 
Christian  meekness;”  and  when  his  patron  Datnasus 
died,  in  A.D.  384,  ho  found  it  necessary,  or,  at  least, 
thought  it  the  more  prudent  course,  to  quit  Home,  and  to 
seek  a home  in  the  East.  As  “the  solitudes  of  Europe 
were  not  yet  sufficiently  sanctified  to  satisfy  a passion 
for  holy  seclusion,”  by  which  Jerome  was  now  wholly 
controlled,  and  “as  the  celebrity  attending  on  ascetic 
privations  was  still  chiefly  confined  to  the  Eastern 
world,  Jerome  bade  adieu  to  his  native  hills,  to  his  he- 
reditary property,  to  pontifical  Home  herself,”  and,  after 
touching  at  Khegium  and  Cyprus,  where  he  enjoyed  a 
visit  with  Epiphanius,  bishop  of  Salamis,  and  a short 
stay  at  Antioch,  he  continued  his  journey  to  the  Holy 
Land,  and  finally  settled  in  38(5  at  Bethlehem.  “ In  a 
retreat  so  well  qualified  to  nourish  religious  emotion 
even  in  the  most  torpid  heart,  the  zeal  of  Jerome  did 
not  slumber,  but  rather  seemed  to  catch  fresh  fire  from  the 
objects  and  the  recollections  which  surrounded  him. . . . 
In  that  peaceful,  pure,  and  pious  solitude,  where  it  was 
natural  enough  that  he  should  exaggerate  the  mer- 
its of  mortification,  and  fasting,  and  celibacy,  and  pil- 
grimage, and  disparage  the  substantial  virtues,  which 
he  could  rarely  witness,  and  which  he  could  never  prac- 
tice,” he  gave  himself  up  wholly  to  the  further  study  of 
the  sacred  language,  and  here  completed  the  great  lit- 
erary labor  of  his  life,  the  translation  of  the  Scriptures. 
He  was  followed  to  this  place  bv  several  of  his  lady 
friends,  one  of  whom,  Paula  (q.  v.),  founded  here  four  con- 
vents—three  for  nuns,  one  for  monks — the  last  of  which 
she  placed  under  the  care  of  Jerome.  But  his  life,  even 
in  this  retreat,  was  by  no  means  a quiet  or  peaceful  one: 
wild  and  awful  as  the  abode  was,  it  did  not  deter  him 
from  sending  forth  from  these  solitudes  fiery  and  vehe- 
ment invectives  not  only  against  the  opponents  of 
Church  orthodoxy,  like  llelvidius  (against  whom  he 
had  appeared  before  in  384),  Jovinian  (q.  v.),  Yigilan- 
tius  (q.  v.),  and  the  Pelagians  (q.  v.),  but  lie  engaged  in 
controversies  even  with  his  former  friend  Hnfinus  (q.  v.; 
see  also  Oiugexistic  Controversy),  and  in  a moder- 
ate form  even  with  St.  Augustine  (see  Miihler,  Yermischte 
/Schriften,  i,  1 sq. ; Ilicron.  Opera , ed.  Vail,  i,  632  sq.) 
By  his  controversy  with  the  Pelagians  he  had  endan- 
gered his  life,  and  he  was  obliged  to  flee  from  Bethle- 
hem, and  to  live  in  concealment  for  over  two  years.  In 
418  he  returned  again  to  his  monastery  at  Bethlehem, 
worn  out  in  body  and  mind  by  unceasing  toil,  privations, 
and  anxieties,  and,  seized  by  sickness,  his  feeble  frame 
soon  gave  way,  and  he  died  in  419  or  420  (some  say 
Sept.  30,  420). 

The  influence  which  Jerome  exerted  on  his  contem- 
poraries, the  prominence  which  they  assigned  him,  and 
the  regard  which  the  Christian  Church  has  ever  since 
bestowed  upon  him,  may  be  justified  in  view  of  the 
customs  of  the  period  in  which  he  lived.  It  is  by 
considering  both  the  sunny  and  shadowy  side,  not 
only  of  his  own  life,  but  also  of  the  Christian  Church  in 
the  4th  century,  that  we  can  accord  to  him  a place 
among  the  great  teachers  and  holy  men  of  the  early 
Church,  and  can  afford  to  overlook  the  glaring  incon- 
sistencies and  violent  passions  which  disfigure  him  so 
greatly,  and  which  have  inclined  Protestant  writers  not 
unfrequently  to  call  him  “a  Church  father  of  doubtful  I 
character.”  We  think  Dr.Vilmar  (Jahrbiicher  dcutsch-\ 
er  Theol.  x,  746)  has  best  delineated  Jerome’s  character 
when  he  says,  “Jerome  yielded  to  the  spirit  which  an- 
imated the  Church  in  his  day,  and  willingly  intrusted , 
his  spiritual  development  to  her  care  in  so  far  as  he 
lacked  independent  judgment.  And  it  is  in  this  that 
Ills  greatness  consists,  in  his  ability  well  to  discern  the 
true  wants  and  opinions  of  his  day  from  the  vacillating 
views  of  the  masses,  aud  the  capricious  inclinations  of  , 
the  men  of  momentary  power.  No  opposition  could  ' 
move  him  from  the  defence  of  anything  when  once  dis-  | 


cerned  by  him  as  a truth.  . . . Where  he  judged  him- 
self to  be  in  the  right,  he  manifested  the  energy  worthy 
of  a Homan,  even  though  th6  world  was  against  him.” 
Thus  he  hesitated  not  to  encounter  the  opposition  of  all 
Home  when  once  he  believed  it  to  be  his  duty  to  come 
forward  as  a promoter  of  monasticism  “in  a country 
where  it  was  as  yet  but  little  loved,  in  the  great  capital, 
where  the  rigidly  ascetic  tendency  came  into  collision 
with  the  propensities  and  interests  of  many,”  and  where 
“he  coidd  not  fail,  even  on  this  score,  to  incur  the  ha- 
tred of  numbers,  both  of  the  clergy  and  laity"  (Meander, 
ii,  683).  {Still,  to  his  praise  be  it  said,  that  however 
greatly  we  regret  this  attitude  of  Jerome  in  behalf  of 
monachism,  which,  at  this  early  period  of  the  life  of  the 
Christian  Church,  may  be  pardoned  on  the  ground  that 
such  great  personal  sacrifices  and  privations  were  the 
only  proofs  which  the  young  convert  could  bring  to 
evince  his  earnestness  and  zeal  for  the  cause  of  his  Mas- 
ter, yet  “no  one  has  denounced,  no  one  has  branded  more 
energetically  than  he  the  false  monks,  the  false  penitents, 
the  false  widows  and  virgins.  lie  points  out  with  a 
bold  hand  all  the  faults  and  dangers  of  the  institution,” 
so  far,  of  course,  as  an  advocate  of  monasticism  could 
have  ventured  to  do  it  at  all  (compare  Montalembcrt, 
Monies  of  the  West,  i,  406  sq.;  Lea,  Celibacy , p.  72  sq.). 
Jerome,  in  short,  was  in  the  service  of  the  popular  opin- 
ion, and  yet  never  yielded  to  the  opinion  of  the  day. 
In  .the  opinion  of  Neander,  Jerome’s  “better  qualities 
were  obscured  by  the  great  defects  of  his  character,  by 
his  mean  passions,  his  easily  offended  vanity,  his  love 
of  controversy  and  of  rule,  his  pride,  so  often  concealed 
under  the  garb  of  humility.”  Much  milder  is  the  judg- 
ment of  Dr.  .Schaff,  who  pronounces  Jerome  “ indeed 
an  accomplished  and  most  serviceable  scholar,  and  a 
zealous  enthusiast  for  all  which  his  aye  counted  holy 
. . . . and  that  he  reflected  with  the  virtues  the  fail- 
ings also  of  his  age  and  of  the  monastic  system,”  adding 
in  a foot-note  that  “among  later  Protestant  historians 
opinion  has  become  somewhat  more  favorable,”  though 
he  again  modities  this  statement  by  saying  that  tins 
has  reference  “rather  to  his  learning  than  to  his  moral 
character.” 

The  Vulgate . — Jerome  gave  also  great  offence  to  his 
contemporaries  by  Iris  attempt  to  correct  the  Latin  ver- 
sion of  the  Bible,  the  n “ become  greatly  distorted  by  the 
blending  together  of  different  translations,  the  mixing  up 
with  each  other  of  the  different  (iospels,  and  the  igno- 
rance of  transcribers.”  This  he  successfully  completed, 
and  it  is  regarded  by  all  Biblical  scholars  as  “by  far  the 
most  important  and  valuable”  work  of  Jerome,  in  it- 
self constituting  “an  immortal  service"  to  the  Christian 
Church.  “Above  all  his  contemporaries,  and  even  all 
his  successors  down  to  the  Kith  century,  Jerome,  by  his 
linguistic  knowledge,  his  Oriental  travel,  and  his  entire 
culture,  was  best  lifted,  and,  in  fact,  the  only  man  to  un- 
dertake and  successfully  execute  so  gigantic  a task — 
a task  which  just  then,  with  the  approaching  separa- 
tion of  East  and  West,  and  the  decay  of  the  knowledge 
of  the  original  languages  of  the  Bible  in  Latin  Christen- 
dom, was  of  the  highest  necessity.  Here,  as  so  often 
in  history,  we  plainly  discern  the  hand  of  divine  Prov- 
idence” (Schaff).  lie  had  been  urged  to  undertake 
this  work  by  bishop  Damasns,  and  it  was  commenced, 
as  already  noted,  while  Jerome  was  yet  a resident  at 
Home,  and  had  there  amended  the  translation  of  the 
Gospels  and  the  Psalms.  In  his  retreat  at  Bethlehem 
he  extended  this  work  to  the  whole  Bible,  supported  in 
his  task,  it  is  generally  believed,  by  the  Ilexapla  of  Or- 
igen,  which  he  is  supposed  to  have  obtained  from  the 
library  at  Caesarea.  “ Even  this  was  a bold  undertak- 
ing, by  which  he  must  expose  himself  to  being  loaded 
with  reproaches  on  the  part  of  those  who,  in  their  igno- 
rance, which  they  identified  with  a pious  simplicity,  were 
wont  to  condemn  every  deviation  from  the  traditional 
text,  however  necessary  or  salutary  it  might  be.  They 
were  very  ready  to  see,  in  any  change  of  the  only  text 
which  was  known  to  them,  a falsification,  without  in- 


JEROME 


832 


JEROME 


quiring  any  further  into  the  reason  of  the  alteration. 
Yet  here  he  had  in  his  favor  the  authority  of  a Roman 
bishop,  as  well  as  the  fact  that  in  this  case  it  was  im- 
possible to  oppose  to  him  a translation  established  and 
transmitted  by  ecclesiastical  authority,  or  a divine  in- 
spiration of  the  text  hitherto  received.  . . . Hut  he  must 
have  given  far  greater  offence  by  another  useful  under- 
takin"-,  viz.  a new  version  of  the  Old  Testament,  not 
according  to  the  Alexandrian  translation,  which  before 
this  had  alone  been  accepted,  but  according  to  the  He- 
brew. This  appeared  to  many,  even  of  those  who  did 
not  belong  to  the  class  of  ignorant  persons,  a great  piece 
of  impiety— to  pretend  to  understand  the  Old  Testament 
better  than  the  seventy  inspired  interpreters— better 
than  the  apostles  who  had  followed  this  translation,  and 
who  would  have  given  another  translation  if  they  had 
considered  it  to  be  necessary— to  allow  one’s  self  to  be 
so  misled  by  Jews  as  for  their  accommodation  to  falsify 
the  writings  of  the  Old  Testament !”  (Neander,  Church 
History,  ii,  084  sq.)  Rut  with  the  opposition  there  came 
also  friends,  and  among  his  supporters  he  counted  even 
Augustine,  until  gradually  it  was  introduced  in  all  the 
churches  of  the  West.  Of  this  great  work,  as  a whole, 
Dr.  Sehaff  thus  speaks  {Ck.  History,  iii,  975  sq.)  : “The 
Vulgate  takes  the  lirst  place  among  the  Rible  versions 
of  the  ancient  Church.  It  exerted  the  same  intlueuce 
upon  Latin  Christendom  as  the  Septuagint  upon  Greek, 
and  it  is  directly  or  indirectly  the  mother  of  most  of  the 
earlier  versions  in  the  European  vernaculars.  It  is 
made  immediately  from  the  original  languages,  though 
with  the  use  of  all  accessible  helps,  and  is  as  much  snpe- 


ments,  useful  for  its  time,  but  in  many  respects  defec- 
tive, and  now  worthless ; and  Liber  de  situ  et  nominibus 
locorum  Ilebraicorum,  usually  cited  under  the  title  Eu- 
sebii  Onomasticon  (urbium  et  locorum  S.  Script  urte) 
{Opera,  iii,  12 1-290),  a free  translation  of  the  Onomas- 
ticon of  Eusebius,  a sort  of  Biblical  topology  in  alpha- 
betical order,  still  considered  valuable  to  antiquarian 
scholarship. 

Yet  the  busy  life  which  Jerome  led,  and  the  contro- 
versies which  he  waged  in  behalf  of  rigid  orthodoxy  in 
Christian  belief,  prove  that,  so  far  from  confining  himself 
to  the  production  of  exegetical  works, he  was  employed 
on  almost  every  subject — biography,  history,  and  the 
vast  field  of  theology,  and  in  all  he  wielded  the  pen  of 
a scholar,  in  a (Latin)  style  acknowledged  by  all  to  be 
both  pure  and  terse.  “The  phraseology  of  Jerome,” 
says  Prof.  W.  Ramsay  (Smith,  Diet,  of  Greek  and  Roman 
Bioy.  s.  v.),  “is  exceedingly  pure,  bearing  amide  testi- 
mony to  the  diligence  with  which  he  must  have  studied 
the  choicest  models.  No  one  can  read  the  Vulgate 
without  being  struck  by  the  contrast  which  it  presents 
in  the  classic  simplicity  of  its  language  to  the  degener- 
ate affectation  of  Aptdeins,  and  the  barbarous  obscurity 
of  Ammianus,  to  say  nothing  of  the  ecclesiastical  writ- 
ers.” We  lack  the  space  to  go  into  further  details  on 
his  varied  productions,  anti  are  obliged  to  refer  for  a 
more  detailed  statement  to  Smith,  Diet,  of  Greek  and  Ro- 
man Bioy.  (Loud.  1859,  roy.  8vo),  ii,  461  sq.,  and  Hoefer, 
Nour.  Bioy.  Generate,  xxvi,  681  sq.  In  short,  “Jerome 
excelled”  (says  Dr.  Eadie,  in  Appleton’s  Cyclop.  Bioyr.) 

all  his  contemporaries  in  erudition.  lie  wanted  the 


rior  to  the  Itala  as  Luther’s  Bible  is  to  the  older  German  ; glowing  fancy  of  Chrysostom,  and  the  serene  temper 


and  symmetrical  intellect  of  Augustine,  but  he  was  be- 
yond them  both  in  critical  skill  and  taste.  His  faults 
lie  upon  the  surface — a hot  and  hasty  disposition,  which 
so  resented  every  opposition,  and  magnified  trifies,  that, 
in  his  towering  passion,  he  heaped  upon  opponents  op- 
probrious epithets  and  coarse  invective.  Haste,  eager- 
ness, and  acerbity  appear  also  in  his  letters  and  exposi- 
tions. II is  mode  of  life  must  have  greatly  aggravated 
this  touchiness  and  irascibility,  as  it  deprived  him  of 
the  mollifying  influence  of  society  and  friendship.  Ills 
heart  was  estranged  from  human  sympathies;  and,  save 


versions.  From  the  present  stage  of  Biblical  philology 
and  exegesis  the  Vulgate  can  be  charged,  indeed,  with 
innumerable  faults,  inaccuracies,  inconsistencies,  and  ar- 
bitrary dealing  in  particulars;  but,  notwithstanding 
these,  it  deserves,  as  a whole,  the  highest  praise  for  the 
boldness  with  which  it  went  back  from  the  half-deified 
Septuagint  directly  to  the  original  Hebrew;  for  its 
union  of  fidelity  and  freedom ; and  for  the  dignity, 
clearness,  and  gracefulness  of  its  style.  Accordingly, 
after  the  extinction  of  the  knowledge  of  Greek,  it  very 

natnrallv  became  the  clerical  Bible  of  Western  Chris-  [ „ . 

teiulom,*  and  so  continued  to  be  till  the  genius  of  the  when  lighted  up  by  the  ardors  of  his  indignant  passion, 
Reformation  in  Germany,  Switzerland,  Holland,  and  ; it  was,  like  Ins  own  cell,  cold,  gloomy,  and  uninviting. 
England,  returning  to  the  original  text,  and  still  fur-  The  works  of  Jerome  will  always  maintain  for  him  the 
ther  penetrating  the  spirit  of  the  Scriptures,  though  | esteem  of  Christendom.  There  is  in  them  a great  deal 
with  the  continual  help  of  the  Vulgate,  produced  a I that  is  baseless,  fanciful,  and  one-sided,  but  very  much 
number  of  popular  Bibles,  which  were  the  same  to  the  | that  is  useful  and  instructive  in  exegesis  and  theology.” 
evangelical  laitv  that  the  Vulgate  had  been  for  many  | A still  greater,  and  to  us  nearer  authority,  Dr.  Scliaff1 
centuries  to  the  Catholic  clergy.  This  high  place  the  {Ch.  History,  iii,  987  sq.),  thus  sums  up  the  position  and 
Vulgate  holds  even  to  this  day  in  the  Roman  Church,  work  of  Jerome  in  the  Christian  Church : “ Orthodox 
where  it  is  unwarrantablv  and  perniciously  placed  on  in  theology  and  Christologv,  semi-Pelagian  in  anthro- 
an  equality  with  the  original.”  See  Vulgate.  pologv,  Romanizing  in  the  doctrine  of  the  Church  and 

Jerome's  other  U'ritinys. — As  the  result  of  his  crit-  tradition,  anti-chiliastic  in  eschatology,  legalistic  and 
ical  labors  on  the  Holy  Scriptures,  we  have  also  com-  ascetic  in  ethics,  a violent  fighter  of  all  heresies,  a fa- 
mentaries  on  Genesis,  the  major  and  minor  prophets,  natical  apologist  of  all  monkish  extravagances,  Jerome 
Ecclesiastes,  Job,  on  some  of  the  Psalms,  the  Gospel  of  was  revered  throughout  the  Catholic  middle  age  as  the 
Matthew,  and  the  epistles  to  the  Galatians,  Ephesians,  patron  saint  of  Christian  and  ecclesiastical  learning, 
Titus,  and  Philemon,  besides  translations  of  different  and,  next  to  Augustine,  as  maximus  doctor  tcclesw ; but 
parts  of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments.  All  these  pro-  bv  his  enthusiastic  love  for  the  holy  Scriptures,  his  re- 
ductions Dr.  Sehaff  pronounces  “the  most  instructive  course  to  the  original  languages,  his  classic  translation 
we  have  from  the  Latin  Church  of  that  day,  not  except-  of  the  Bible,  and  his  manifold  exegetical  merits,  he  also 
ing  even  those  of  Augustine,  which  otherwise  greatly  played  materially  into  the  hands  of  the  Reformation, 
surpass  them  in  theological  depth  and  spiritual  unction.”  and  as  a scholar  and  an  author  still  takes  the  first  rank, 
Alban  Butler  thus  speaks  of  Jerome’s  exegetical  labors:  and  as  an  influential  theologian  the  second  (after  Au- 
“ Nothing  has  rendered  St.  Jerome  so  famous  as  his  crit-  gustine),  among  the  Latin  fathers.” 
ical  labors  on  the  holy  Scriptures.  For  this  the  Church  Of  the  various  editions  of  Jerome’s  works  a detail- 
acknowledges  him  to  have  been  raised  by  God  through  ed  account  is  given  by  Schonemann  ( Bibliotheca  Pa- 
a special  providence,  and  particularly  assisted  from  trinn  Latinorum,  i,  c.  4,  § 3).  Parts  of  them  were 
above,  and  she  styles  him  the  greatest  of  all  her  doc-  early  published,  but  the  first  critical  edition  ol  his 
tors  in  expounding  the  divine  oracles.”  To  works  of  writings  collectively  was  given  to  the  public  in  1516. 
an  exegetical  character  in  a wider  sense  belong  also  his  It  was  superintended  by  Erasmus,  with  the  assistance 
Liber  de  interpretatione  nominum  Ilebraicorum,  or  De  of  (Ecolampadius  (Basle,  9 vols.  fol. ; reprinted  in  1526 
nominibus  Ilebr.  {Opera,  iii,  1-120),  the  book  On  the  In-  and  1537,  the  last  edition  being  the  best;  and  also  at 
terpretaiion  of  the  Hebrew  Names,  an  etymological  lex-  Lyons,  1530,  in  8 vols.  fol.).  Another  critical  edition 
icou  of  the  proper  Names  of  the  Old  and  New  Testa-  was  prepared  by  Marian  us  Victorinus  (Rome,  1566-72. 


JEROME 


833 


JEROME 


9 vols.  fol. ; reprinted  at  Paris,  1578,  1G08,  4 vols.,  and 
in  1643,  9 vols.).  The  Protestant  Adam  Tribbechovins 
prepared  an  edition  which  was  published  at  Frankfort- 
on-the-Main  and  at  Leipsic,  1084, 12  vols.  foL;  then  ap- 
peared the  Benedictine  edition  prepared  by  John  Mar- 
tianay  and  Anton  Pouget  (Paris,  1093-1700, 5 vols.  fol.), 
which  was,  however,  far  inferior  to,  and  was  wholly  su- 
perseded by,  the  last  and  best  of  all,  prepared  by  Do- 
minieus  Vallarsi  and  Scipio  Maffei  (Verona,  1734-42,  11 
vols.  fol.;  reprinted,  with  improvements,  Yen.  1700-72). 
The  edition  of  Mignc,  Paris  (Pctit-Montrouge),  1845- 
40,  also  in  11  vols.  (tom.  xxii-xxx  of  the  Putrologia 
Lat.),  “notwithstanding  the  boastful  title,  is  only  an 
uncritical  reprint  of  the  edition  of  Vallarsi,  with  unes- 
sential changes  in  the  order  of  arrangement ; the  1 'ita 
Ilieronymi  and  the  Testimonia  de  Hieroiiymo  being  trans- 
ferred from  the  eleventh  to  the  first  volume,  which  is 
more  convenient”  (Dr.  Schaff).  The  so-called  Comes 
of  Hieronymus  ( Liber  Comitis  Lectionurius),  a work  of 
great  value  for  the  history  of  liturgies,  is  falsely  attrib- 
uted to  Jerome,  and  belongs  to  a later  period;  likewise 
his  Martyrologium , and  some  of  the  epistles. 

See  Du  Pin,  Xouvelle  Biblioth.  des  auteurs  Eccles.  iii, 
100-140;  Tillemont,  Mem.  Eccles.  xii,  1-356 ; Martianay, 
La  Vie  de  St.  Jerome  (Paris,  170d) ; Joh.  Stilting,  in  the 
Acta  Sanctorum , Sept,  viii,  418-088  (Antw.  17G2) ; But- 
ler, Lives  of  the  Saints  (sub.  Sept.  30);  Vallarsi  (in  Op. 
Ilieron.  xi,  1-240) ; Sehrbckh,  Kirchengeseh.  viii,  359  sq., 
and  especially  xi,  3-254;  Neander,  Ch.  IHst.  ii,  G82  sq. ; 
Schaff,  Ch.  History , ii,  § 41 ; iii,  § 177:  Sebastian  Dolci, 
Maximus  Hieronymus  Vitce  suee  Scriptor.  (Ancon.  1750, 
4to) ; Engelstoft,  Ilieron.  Stridonensis,  interpres,  criti- 
cus , exegeta,  apologeta,  historicus , doctor,  monachus 
(Ilavn.  1798);  Ersch  und  Gruber’s  Encycl.  sect,  ii,  vol. 
viii ; Collombet,  Histoire  de  St.  Jerome  (Lyons,  1844) ; (). 
Znckler,  Hieronymus , sein  Leben  und  Wirken.  (Gotha, 
18G5,  8vo)  ; Revue  des  Deux  Monies  (18G5,  July  1).  (J. 
II.  W.) 

Jerome  of  Prague,  one  of  the  earliest  and  ablest 
of  the  reformers  before  the  Deformation,  a brave  defend- 
er of  the  truth,  and  a most  devoted  friend  and  follower 
of  John  Huss,  was  a descendant  of  a noble  Bohemian 
family,  whose  real  name  was  Faulfisch.  Of  his  early 
history  all  data  are  wanting,  but  he  appears  to  have 
been  born  about  1375,  as  he  is  known  to  have  been 
somewhat  younger  than  his  friend  Huss,  who  was  born 
in  13G9  (comp.  Neander,  Ch.  Hist,  v,  24G).  After  stud- 
ying for  several  years  at  the  university  of  his  native 
place,  “Jerome,  full  of  life  and  ardor,  of  an  enterprising 
spirit,  not  disposed  to  remain  still  and  quiet  a long  time 
in  one  place,”  continued  his  studies  at  the  universities 
of  Paris,  Cologne,  Heidelberg,  and  Oxford,  from  each 
of  which  he  received  the  doctorate  of  divinity  (about 
1398-1400).  Endowed  with  great  natural  ability,  Je- 
rome obtained  from  such  an  extended  course  of  study 
advantages  which  soon  gave  him  great  reputation  for 
learning,  especially  as  he  was  one  of  the  few  knights 
in  Bohemia  who  had  manifested  any  zeal  for  science 
and  literary  culture.  But  if,  by  a careful  cultivation  of 
his  superior  natural  abilities,  he  secured  for  himself  the 
admiration  and  homage  of  the  men  of  letters,  it  is  un- 
questionable that  his  attachment  to  the  cause  of  the 
great  ante-reformer  was  due,  in  the  main,  to  his  stay  at 
Oxford,  where  he  became  acquainted  with  the  writings 
of  YVickliffe  (q.  v.),  and  at  once  enlisted  with  great  en- 
thusiasm in  defence  of  the  doctrines  of  the  English  re- 
former. “ Until  now,”  he  is  reported  to  have  said  when 
he  commenced  his  copy  of  the  Dialogus  et  Tnalogus, 
“we  had  nothing  but  the  shell  of  science;  Wickliffe 
first  laid  open  the  kernel.”  It  is  thought  possible  by 
some  that  Jerome  had  read  these  works  before  he  went 
to  Oxford,  and  that  his  esteem  for  the  writer,  whom  he 
could  conceive  only  as  a man  of  a noble,  acute,  and  re- 
markable mind,  had  attracted  him  to  Oxford  (compare 
B diringer,  Kirche  Christi  u.  d.  Zeugen,  p.  611) ; but,  be 
this  as  it  may,  so  much  is  certain,  that,  on  his  return  to 
Prague,  Jercme  “professed  himself  an  open  favorer  of 
IV. — G G G 


him  (Wickliffe),  and,  finding  his  doctrines  had  made 
considerable  progress  in  Bohemia,  and  that  Huss  was  at 
the  head  of  that  party  which  had  espoused  them,  he 
attached  himself  to  that  leader”  (Gilpin,  Lives,  p.  234; 
compare,  however,  Gillett,  Life  of  Huss,  i,  G9).  May  28, 
1403,  the  University  of  Prague,  at  the  instigation  of  the 
arcliiepiscopal  officials  and  the  cathedral  chapter  of 
Prague,  publicly  condemned  the  writings  of  John  Wick- 
liffe as  heretical,  in  spite  of  a strong  opposition,  headed 
by  John  Huss,  Jerome,  and  Master  Nicholas  of  Leito- 
mysl  (q.  v.).  For  some  time  past  there  had  been  grow- 
ing a discontent  between  the  native  and  foreign  element 
represented  at  the  university.  When  that  institution 
of  learning  was  founded,  Prague  was  the  residence  of 
the  German  emperor,  but  that  city  was  also  the  capital 
of  Bohemia,  a country  which  “ seemed  fitted  by  loca- 
tion and  general  features  to  become  one  of  the  foremost 
states  of  Europe,”  and  the  people,  aware  of  their  great 
natural  resources,  were  unwilling  to  submit  to  the  policy 
of  the  rulers  to  make  their  country  a province  of  Ger- 
many. A strong  feeling  of  nationality,  such  as  is  again 
witnessed  in  our  day,  developed  itself  in  even-  Slavic 
heart,  and  gradually  Bohemian  literature,  a nation’s 
strength,  which  had  before  succumbed  to  the  German, 
began  to  revive,  and  with  it  there  came  a longing  de- 
sire to  force  from  the  Germans  the  control  of  the  uni- 
versity, in  which  the  native  Bohemians  saw  themselves 
outvoted  by  strangers.  The  Germans  were  Nominal- 
ists, Wickliffe  a Realist;  no  wonder,  then,  that  his  writ- 
ings were  condemned,  even  though  the  Bohemians  were 
in  favor  of  the  Englishman  (see  Reichel,  See  of  Rome 
in  the  Middle  Ages,  p.  602  sq.;  Studien  und  Kritiken, 
1871,  ii,  297  sq.).  Here,  then,  came  an  opportunity  for 
Huss  and  his  friends  to  strike  not  only  in  behalf  of  the 
religious  interests  of  their  countrymen,  but  to  become 
champions  of  their  nation's  rights,  “and  on  this  side 
they  might  count  on  receiving  the  support  of  many  who 
did  not  agree  with  them  in  religious  and  doctrinal  mat- 
ters.” They  could  count  on  the  most  influential  of  the 
nobility ; even  king  Wenzel  himself  was  won  for  their 
cause.  He  was  induced  to  change  the  relation  of  votes 
at  the  University  at  Prague  in  such  a maimer  that  the 
Bohemians  could  gain  the  ascendency,  and,  this  once 
done,  the  election  of  Huss  to  the  rectorate  of  the  univer- 
sity followed.  The  Germans,  of  course,  were  unwilling 
to  submit  readily  to  such  changes,  and  left  Prague  in 
large  numbers,  to  found  a university  at  Leipzig.  They 
also  circulated  the  most  injurious  reports  respecting  the 
Hussites  (as  we  will  hereafter  call  the  adherents  of  Huss 
and  Jerome  for  convenience  sake).  In  the  mean  time 
also,  “by  the  express  admonition  of  the  pope,”  the  arch- 
bishop of  Prague,  Zybneck,  had  issued  (in  140G)  a de- 
cree “that  henceforth  no  one,  imder  severe  penalty, 
should  hold,  teach,  or,  for  purposes  of  academic  debate, 
argue  in  favor  of  Wickliffc’s  doctrines.”  This  same 
Zybneck  was  the  legate  of  Gregory  XII.  To  this  last 
pope  the  king  of  Bohemia  adhered  at  this  time,  but  in 
1409,  when  the  Council  of  Pisa  renounced  the  rival 
popes,  Gregory  XII  and  Benedict  XIII,  and  declared 
Alexander  V the  legitimate  incumbent  of  the  papal 
chair,  IIuss  inclined  to  favor  the  action  of  the  Council 
of  Pisa,  and  won  also  the  king  over  to  his  side,  through 
the  influence  of  Jerome,  who  seems  to  have  been  a fa- 
vorite at  court.  This  brought  about  an  open  rupture 
with  Zybneck,  who  had  hitherto  hesitated  openly  to  at- 
tack Huss  and  Jerome.  Now  there  was  no  longer  any 
need  for  delaying  the  decisive  conflict.  “He  issued  an 
ordinance  forbidding  all  teachers  of  the  university  who 
had  joined  the  party  of  the  cardinals  (who  controlled 
the  Council  of  Pisa)  against  the  schismatic  popes,  and 
had  thus  abandoned  the  cause  of  Gregory,  to  discharge 
any  priestly  duties  within  his  diocese.”  The  Bohemi- 
ans refused"  to  obey  the  mandate ; the  archbishop  then 
complained  to  the  king,  and  found  that  he  was  power- 
less to  enforce  obedience  to  his  decrees;  neither  was  his 
master,  Gregory  XII,  able  to  do  it.  Determined  to  con- 
quer, the  archbishop  now  suddenly  espoused  the  cause 


JEROME  834  JEROME 


of  the  stronger  rival  in  the  papacy,  ami  appealed  to  Al- 
exander V for  his  decision  in  the  conflict  with  the  Bo- 
hemians. A papal  hull  was  secured  condemning  the 
articles  of  Wickliffe,  forbidding  preaching  in  private 
chapels,  and  authorizing  the  archbishop  to  appoint  a 
commission  to  enforce  the  measures  adopted  by  him  for 
the  extirpation  of  the  spreading  heresy.  In  addition  to 
a renewal  of  his  former  decrees,  the  archbishop  now 
condemned  not  only  the  writings  of  Wickliffe,  but  also 
those  of  Muss  and  Jerome,  as  well  as  those  of  their  pre- 
decessors Milicz  and  Janow,  and  caused  them  to  be 
publicly  burned.  “The  deed  was  done.  The  books 
were  burned.  The  ban  of  the  Church  rested  on  those 
who  had  dared  to  object.  Doubtless  the  archbishop 
felt  that  he  had  secured  a triumph.  He  had  executed 
the  papal  sentence,  and  proved  himself  an  able  instru- 
ment of  the  Church  party  who  had  instigated  him  to 
the  bold  deed.  But  it  provoked  more  than  it  overawed. 
The  king,  the  court,  and  a large  proportion  of  the  citi- 
zens of  Prague  were  enraged  and  embittered  by  it.  A 
cry  of  indignation  ran  throughout  Bohemia”  (Gillett, 
J/uss,  i,  157).  Acts  of  violence  followed,  and,  as  is  too 
apt  to  be  the  case,  excesses  were  committed  by  maraud- 
ers, and  the  crime  charged  to  the  reformers.  The  king 
and  the  people  siding  with  the  Hussites,  it  remained  for 
the  papal  party  to  adopt  severer  measures;  these  were 
soon  found  in  the  proclamation  of  an  interdict  on  the 
city  of  Prague,  and  the  excommunication  of  the  leaders. 
Huss  left  the  city  to  avoid  an  open  conflict  between  his 
countrymen,  and  Jerome  also  soon  quitted  the  place,  and 
went  to  Ol'en  (1410).  But  Zybneck  was  unwilling  to  see 
liis  opponent  abroad  proclaiming  everywhere  the  doc- 
trines of  Wickliffe,  and  denouncing  even  popery.  Je- 
rome dared  to  propose  even  such  questions  as  these: 
Whether  the  pope  possessed  more  power  than  another 
priest,  and  whether  the  bread  in  the  Eucharist  or  the 
body  of  Christ  possessed  more  virtue  in  the  mass  of  the 
Koman  pontiff  than  in  that  of  any  other  officiating  ec- 
clesiastic. Nay,  one  day,  while  in  an  open  square,  sur- 
rounded by  several  of  his  friends  and  adherents,  he  ex- 
posed two  sketches,  in  one  of  which  Christ’s  disciples, 
on  one  side,  following,  with  naked  feet,  their  Master 
mounted  on  an  ass ; while  on  the  other  the  pope  and 
the  cardinals  were  represented  in  great  state  on  superb 
horses,  and  preceded,  as  usual,  with  drums  and  trumpets. 
Zybneck  caused  the  arrest  of  Jerome  by  the  archbishop 
of  (Iran,  who,  recognising  the  superior  abilities  and 
great  influence  of  Jerome,  dismissed  him  five  days  after. 
More  vehement  and  serious  became  Jerome’s  opposition 
to  the  papal  party  in  1412,  after  the  publication  of  the 
papal  bull  granting  plenary  indulgence  (q.  v.)  to  all  who 
should  engage  in  “ holy  warfare”  against  king  Ladis- 
laus  (q.  v.)  of  Naples.  Huss,  who  bad  returned  to 
Prague,  and  who  now  was  excommunicated,  simply 
preached  with  all  his  power  against  this  bull,  but  Je- 
rome, urged  on  by  his  impulsive  nature,  was  carried 
far  beyond  the  limits  of  prudence  and  of  decency.  He 
caused  (if  he  did  not  head  the  movement  lie  undoubt- 
edly inspired  it)  the  bull  to  be  carried  about  the  streets 
by  two  lewd  women,  heading  a long  procession  of  stu- 
dents, and,  after  displaying  it  in  this  manner  for  some 
time,  it  was  publicly  burnt,  with  some  indulgence  briefs, 
at  the  pillory  of  the  new  town.  “That  similar  scenes 
not  uufrcquently  occurred  is  most  probable.  Among 
the  charges  brought  against  Jerome  at  the  Council  of 
Constance  are  some  which  imply  that  his  conduct  in 
this  respect  had  been  far  from  unexceptionable.  Some 
of  these  are  denied;  but  the  evidence  is  strong,  if  not 
decisive,  in  regard  to  his  course  on  the  reception  of  the 
papal  bulls  for  the  Crusade.  On  another  occasion  he  is 
said  to  have  thrown  a priest  into  the  Moldau,  who,  but 
for  timely  aid,  would  have  been  drowned.  But  such 
violence  was  bitterly  provoked.  The  burning  of  the 
books  by  Sbynco  (Zybneck),  the  execution  of  three  men 
for  asserting  the  falsehood  of  the  indulgences,  the  ex- 
communication  of  lluss,  to  say  nothing  of  the  course 
pursued  by  his  assailants,  had  excited  a strong  feeling 


against  the  patrons  of  papal  fraud  and  ecclesiastical  cor- 
ruption. We  are  only  surprised  that  the  deep  resent- 
ment felt  was  confined  in  its  expression  within  such 
limits”  (Gillett,  i,  257).  Both  he  and  Huss  were  obliged 
to  flee  from  Prague,  as  the  safety  of  their  lives  was 
threatened.  Huss  (q.  v.)  retired  to  the  castle  of  Kozi 
Hradek,  while  Jerome  went  to  Poland  and  Lithuania. 
But  the  seed  which  they  had  widely  sown  sprang  up 
quickly,  and  a council  which  bad  in  the  mean  time 
convened  at  Constance  cited  Huss  for  a defence  of  his 
course.  When  the  tidings  of  the  imprisonment  of  his 
friend  reached  Jerome  he  determined  to  go  to  Constance 
himself.  He  went  there  at  first  incognito  and  secretly 
(April  4,  1415),  but,  fearing  danger  for  himself  without 
the  possibility  of  affording  relief  to  his  friend,  he  left 
for  a town  four  miles  distant,  and  thence  demanded  of 
the  emperor  a safe-conduct  to  Constance,  that  he  might 
publicly  answer  before  any  one  to  every  charge  of  here- 
sy that  might  be  brought  against  him.  Not  being  able 
to  obtain  such  a safe-conduct,  he  caused  to  be  affixed 
the  next  day,  on  the  gates  of  the  emperor’s  palace,  on 
the  doors  of  the  principal  churches,  the  residences  of  the 
cardinals,  and  other  eminent  prelates,  a notice  in  the 
Bohemian,  Latin,  and  German  languages,  wherein  he 
declared  himself  ready,  provided  only  he  shoidd  have 
full  liberty  and  security  to  come  to  Constance  and  to 
leave  it  again,  to  defend  himself  in  public  before  the 
council  against  every  accusation  made  against  his  faith. 
Not  obtaining  what  he  demanded,  he  procured  a certifi- 
cate to  be  drawn  up  to  that  effect  by  the  Bohemian 
knights  resident  in  Constance  and  sealed  with  their 
seals,  and  with  this  to  serve  as  a vindication  of  himself 
to  his  friends,  he  prepared  to  turn  his  face  towards  Bo- 
hemia. The  papists  determining  to  secure  his  attend- 
ance at  the  council,  a passport  was  now  sent  him  from 
the  council,  guaranteeing  his  safety  from  violence,  but 
not  from  punishment,  if  he  were  adjudged  guilty  of  the 
heresy  charged  against  him;  but  this  Jerome — Huss 
having  been  already  sent  to  prison — deemed  insufficient, 
and  be  proceeded  on  his  journey.  But  his  enemies  suc- 
ceeded in  waylaying  him,  and  on  the  road  he  was  ar- 
rested near  Hirsclian,  a small  town  in  Suabia,  April  25, 
1415,  and  delivered  over  into  the  power  of  the  council 
May  23.  He  was  immediately  brought  before  a public 
convocation  of  that  body.  A citation  was  sent  to  him, 
which,  it  was  said,  had  been  posted  up  in  Constance  in 
reply  to  his  declarations  to  the  council.  He  denied  to 
have  seen  them  before  he  left  the  vicinity  of  Constance, 
where  lie  had  waited  sufficiently  long  to  be  reached  by 
any  reply  made  within  a reasonable  limit  of  time,  and 
that  he  would  have  complied  with  the  summons  had  it 
reached  him  even  on  the  confines  of  Bohemia.  But 
this  declaration  rather  aggravated,  if  anything,  the 
members  of  the  council,  so  eager  to  find  a plea  to  con- 
demn the  prisoner.  Many  members  of  this  council 
came  from  the  universities  of  Paris,  Heidelberg,  and 
Cologne,  and  recollecting  him,  they  desired  to  triumph 
over  the  man  who  had  always  far  outstripped  them. 
“Accordingly  one  after  another  addressed  him,  and  re- 
minded him  of  the  propositions  which  he  had  set  forth. 
The  first  among  these  was  the  learned  chancellor  Ger- 
son,  who  captiously  charged  him  with  wishing  to  set 
himself  up  as  an  angel  of  eloquence,  and  with  exciting 
great  commotions  at  Paris  by  maintaining  the  reality 
of  general  conceptions.  We  may  observe  here,  as  well 
as  in  other  like  examples,  the  strong  propensity  which 
now  prevailed  to  mix  up  together  philosophical  and 
theological  disputes.  But  Jerome  distinguished  one 
from  the  other,  and  declared  that  he,  as  a university 
master,  had  maintained  such  philosophical  doctrines  as 
had  no  concern  with  faith.  In  reference  to  all  that  had 
been  objected  to  him  by  different  parties,  he  held  him- 
self ready  to  recant  as  soon  as  he  was  taught  anything 
better.  Amid  the  noisy  shouts  was  heard  the  cry.  ‘Je- 
rome must  be  burnt.’  He  answered  with  coolness, 
‘ Well,  if  you  wish  my  death,  let  it  come,  in  God’s 
name !’  ” Wiser  counsels,  however,  prevailed  at  the  mo- 


JERQUE 


835 


JERUBBESHETII 


ment,  and  Jerome  was  remitted  to  prison,  where  he  was 
bound  to  a stake,  with  his  hands,  feet,  and  neck  so  that 
lie  could  scarcely  move  his  head.  Thus  he  lay  two 
days,  with  nothing  to  eat  hut  bread  and  water.  Then 
fur  the  lirst  time  lie  obtained,  through  the  mediation  of 
l’eter  Maldonisuritz,  who  had  been  told  of  his  situation 
by  his  keepers,  other  means  of  subsistence.  This  se- 
vere imprisonment  threw  him  into  a violent  fit  of  sick- 
ness. 11c  demanded  a confessor,  which  was  at  first  re- 
fused, and  then  granted  with  difficulty.  After  he  had 
spent  several  months  in  this  severe  confinement,  lie 
heard  of  the  martyrdom  of  his  friend,  whose  death  and 
the  imprisonment  of  Jerome  produced  the  greatest  ex- 
asperation of  feeling  among  the  knights  in  Bohemia 
and  Moravia.  On  the  2d  of  September  they  put  forth 
a letter  to  the  council,  in  which  they  expressed  their 
indignation,  declared  that  they  had  known  Muss  but  as 
a pious  man,  zealous  for  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel ; 
and  that  he  had  fallen  a victim  only  to  his  enemies  and 
the  enemies  of  his  country.  They  entered  a bitter  com- 
plaint against  the  captivity  of  the  innocent  Jerome, 
who  had  made  himself  famous  by  his  brilliant  gifts; 
perhaps  he,  too,  had  already  been  murdered  like  lluss. 
They  declared  themselves  resolved  to  contend,  even  to 
the  shedding  of  their  blood,  in  defence  of  the  law  of 
Christ  and  of  his  faithful  servants”  (Neandcr,  Ch.  Hist. 
v,  375).  This  decided  stand  of  Jerome’s  friends  forced 
the  council  to  milder  terms,  and  they  determined,  if 
possible,  to  induce  him  to  recant  of  his  heretical  opin- 
ions, a point  which  the  effect  of  Jerome’s  close  confine- 
ment, and  the  sufferings  that  he  had  endured  for  the 
past  six  months,  made  them  believe  might  be  carried 
without  much  difficulty.  They  mainly  pressed  him  to 
recant  his  opinion  on  the  doctrine  of  transubstantiation ; 
and  on  the  third  examination,  Sept.  11,  1415,  Jerome, 
by  this  time  worn  out  both  in  body  and  mind,  made  a 
public  and  unqualified  recantation  of  the  Hussite  state- 
ment of  the  eucharistic  theory.  Here  the  disreputable 
conduct  of  the  Romanists  might  well  have  rested,  and 
Jerome  have  been  permitted  to  return  to  his  native  land. 
But  there  were  men  in  the  council  who  well  understood 
that  Jerome  had  been  induced  to  recant  only  because  he 
saw  no  other  door  to  lead  from  the  prison,  and  that,  his 
liberty  once  regained,  he  would  return  to  his  friends,  to 
preach  anew  the  truth  as  he  had  heard  it  from  the  lips 
of  Huss,  and  as  he  had  received  it  from  the  writings  of 
AVickliffc.  Indeed,  they  had  reasons  to  fear  that  if  he 
ever  escaped  with  his  life,  it  would  be  given  to  the  cause 
in  which  lluss  had  just  fallen.  On  the  other  hand,  there 
were  men  of  honor  in  the  council  — men  who,  though 
they  had  narrowed  themselves  down  until  they  could  see 
Christ  exemplified  only  in  those  who  bowed  submissive- 
ly before  the  papal  chair,  yet  would  not  make  pledges 
only  to  break  them  as  soon  as  they  found  it  to  their  in- 
terest to  do  so.  One  of  these  was  the  cardinal  of  Cam- 
bray,  who  insisted  that  Jerome  ought  now  to  be  liber- 
ated, as  had  been  promised  him  before  his  recantation. 
The  counsel  of  the  more  cunning,  however,  prevailed, 
and  Jerome  was  detained  to  answer  other  and  more  se- 
rious accusations.  Tired  of  the  crooked  ways  of  these 
so-called  defenders  of  the  Christian  faith,  Jerome  finally 
declined  to  be  any  longer  subjected  to  private  exam- 
inations, and  declared  that  publicly  only  would  he  be 
ready  to  answer  the  calumnies  of  his  accusers.  May  23, 
14 IG,  he  finally  succeeded  in  obtaining  a public  hear- 
ing. On  this  day,  and  on  the  2Gth,  he  spent  from  six 
in  the  morning  until  one  in  the  afternoon  in  replying  to 
the  different  accusations  made  against  him,  and  closed, 
to  the  surprise  of  all  the  council,  by  passionately  dis- 
claiming his  former  cowardly  recantation.  “ Of  all  the 
sins,”  he  exclaimed  now,  with  great  feeling,  “that  I 
have  committed  since  my  youth,  none  weigh  so  heavily 
on  my  mind  and  cause  me  such  poignant  remorse  as 
that  which  I committed  in  this  fatal  place  when  I ap- 
proved of  the  iniquitous  sentence  rendered  against  AVick- 
liffe  and  against  the  holy  martyr  John  Huss,  my  master 
and  friend.”  If  his  defence  had  been  delivered  with 


such  presence  of  mind,  with  so  much  eloquence  and 
wit  as  to  excite  universal  admiration  and  to  incline  his 
judges  to  mercy,  the  closing  declaration  against  his  for- 
mer recantation  certainly  scaled  his  own  deatli-wrarrant, 
and  left  not  the  least  hope  for  escape  from  martyrdom. 
Yet  there  were  some  among  his  judges  in  whom  he  had 
excited  so  deep  a sympathy  that  they  would  not  de- 
clare against  him;  there  were  also  some  who  dared  not, 
by  this  new  martyrdom,  provoke  still  further  the  angry 
feelings  of  the  Bohemians,  lie  was  granted  a respite 
of  forty  days  for  reflection,  and  an  opportunity  wras  af- 
forded to  those  who  still  wavered  in  condemning  the  her- 
etic to  influence  him  possibly  to  recant  of  this  decided 
opposition  to  the  Church.  But  Jerome  remained  stead- 
fast this  time.  If  he  had  seen  a period  when, like  Crau- 
mer’s,  his  faith  faltered,  it  had  passed,  and  he  was  now 
ready  to  die  rather  than  again  deny  that  he  thought 
and  felt  as  a Hussite.  May  30  had  been  appointed  to 
pass  final  judgment.  He  still  refusing  to  recant,  the 
council  pronounced  against  him,  and  he  was  handed 
over  for  execution  to  the  secular  authorities.  The  whole 
trial  and  his  last  hours  are  vividly  pictured  by  a Roman 
Catholic  eye-witness,  Poggio,  a Florentine,  who  is  freely 
cited  by  Neander  (Ch.  Hist,  v,  378  sq.),  and  is  given  in 
full  by  Gilpin  ( Lives , p.  255  sq.).  ( )f  his  last  hours  Pog- 
gio relates  as  follows : “AATith  cheerful  looks  he  went 
readily  and  willingly  to  his  death ; he  feared  neither 
death  nor  the  fire  and  its  torture.  No  stoic  ever  suffer- 
ed death  with  so  firm  a soul  as  that  with  which  he 
seemed  to  demand  it.  Jerome  endured  the  torments  of 
the  fire  with  more  tranquillity  than  Socrates  displayed 
in  drinking  his  cup  of  hemlock.”  Jerome  was  burned 
like  his  friend  and  master  lluss,  and  his  ashes  likewise 
throwm  into  the  Rhine.  “ Historians,  [Roman]  Catholic 
and  Protestant  alike,  vie  with  each  other  in  paying 
homage  to  the  heroic  courage  and  apostolic  resignation 
with  which  Jerome  met  his  doom.  Posterity  has  con- 
firmed their  verdict,  and  reveres  him  as  a martyr  to  the 
truth,  who,  unwearied  in  life  and  noble  in  death,  has  ac- 
quired an  immortal  renown  for  his  share  in  the  Refor- 
mation.” Indeed  ure  question  whether  to  Jerome  and 
lluss  sufficient  credit  is  given  for  their  share  in  the  Rcf- 
t ormation  of  the  16th  century.  AVe  fear  that  it  is 
I through  neglect  alone  that  to  Huss  and  Jerome  is 
I denied  a place  by  the  side  of  Luther  and  Calvin,  to 
1 which,  as  Gillett  (Huss  and  his  Times , Preface)  rightly 
says,  they  arc  justly  entitled.  “It  is  true,  indeed,  that 
the  great  reform  movement,  of  which  lluss  was  the 
leader,  was,  to  human  view,  after  a most  desperate  and 
prolonged  struggle,  crushed  out ; not,  however,  without 
leaving  behind  it  most  important  results.”  See  Gillett, 
lluss  and  his  Times  (2  vols.  8vo,  new  edit.  1871);  Nean- 
der, Church  History , vol.  v (see  Index);  Tisclicr,  Lehen 
d.  Hieron.  v.  Pray.  (Lpz.  1835);  Ilelfert,  Hus  it.  I Iieron . 
(Prag.  1853,  p.  151  sq.,  208  sq.;  perhaps  the  most  impor- 
tant, though  rather  partial);  Czerwenka,  Gesch.der  evan- 
gel. Kirclie  in  Bohmen  (Biclef.  1869),  vol.  i;  Bbhringer, 
Die  Kirche  Christi , ii,  4,  G08  sq. ; Krnmmel,  Geseh.  der 
bithm.  Reformation  (Gotha,  18G7,  8vo);  Palacky,  Gisch. 
\ Rohm.  vol.  iii  and  iv.  See  lluss.  (J.  II.  AY.) 

Jeromites.  See  IIieronymites. 

Jerubb'aal  (Heb.  Yerubba'al,  contender 

with  Baal ; comp.  Ishbaal;  Sept.  TtpoyhiaX),  a sur- 
name of  Gideon  (q.  v.),  the  judge  of  Israel,  given  him 
in  consequence  of  his  overthrow  of  the  idol  (Judg.  vi, 
32;  vii,  1 ; viii,  29,  35;  ix,  1,  2,  5,  16,  19,  24,  28,  57 ; 1 
Sam.  xii,  11).  “The  name  Jcrubbaal  appears  in  the 
Gnecizcd  form  of  Ilierombal  (itpopfiaXor)  in  a fragment 
of  Philo-Byblius  preserved  by  Eusebius  (/’ray?.  Evany . 
i,  9) ; but  the  identity  of  name  does  not  authorize  us  to 
conclude  that  it  is  Gideon  who  is  there  referred  to.  In 
the  Palmyrene  inscriptions,  ’lapif3o\og  appears  as  the 
name  of  a deity  (Gesenius,  Monum.  Phcenic.  p.  229 ; Mo- 
vers, Phunicier,  i,  434)”  (Kitto).  Josephus  omits  all  ref- 
erence to  the  incident  (Ant.  v,  6).  See  Jerubbesiietii. 

Jerub'besheth  (Heb.  Yerubbe'skefh,  con- 


JERUEL  836  JERUSALEM 


tender  with  the  shame,  i.  e.  idol;  compare  Ishbosheth  ; 
Sept.  'ltpofiaaX),  a surname  (probably  to  avoid  men- 
tioning the  name  of  a false  god,  Exod.  xxiii,  13)  of  Gid- 
eon (q.  v.),  the  Israelitish  judge,  acquired  on  account 
of  his  contest  with  the  idolatry  of  Baal  (2  Sam.  xi,  21). 
See  Jerubbaal. 

Jeru'el  (Heb.  YerueV,  founded  by  God,  oth- 

erwise fear  of  God;  compare  Jkriei.;  Sept.  Upu)X),  a 
desert  p2bT2,  i.  e.  open  common)  mentioned  in  the  pre- 
diction by  Jahaziel  of  Jelioshaphat’s  victory  over  the 
Moabites  and  Ammonites,  where  it  is  described  as  being 
situated  on  the  ascent  from  the  valley  of  the  Dead  Sea 
towards  Jerusalem,  at  the  loot  of  the  valley  leading  to- 
wards the  cliff  Ziz  (l  Chron.  xx,  16).  The  “ desert”  was 
probably  so  called  as  adjoining  some  town  or  village  of 
the  same  name.  F rom  the  context  it  appears  to  have 
lain  beyond  the  wilderness  of  Tckoa  (ver.  20),  in  the  di- 
rection of  Engedi  (ver.  2),  near  a certain  watch-tower  ! 
overlooking  the  pass  (ver.  24).  It  appears  to  corre- 
spond to  the  tract  el-Hussasah,  sloping  from  Tekoa  to 
the  precipice  of  Ain-Jidv,  described  by  Dr.  Robinson  as 
fertile  in  the  north-western  part  ( Researches , ii,  212), but 
sterile  as  it  approaches  the  Ghor  (p.  243),  and  forming 
part  of  the  Desert  of  Judiea.  The  invading  tribes,  hav- 
ing marched  round  the  south  of  the  Dead  Sea,  had  en- 
camped at  Engedi.  The  road  thence  to  Jerusalem  as- 
cends from  the  shore  by  a steep  and  “ terrible  pass” 
(Walcott,  Bib.  Sac.  i,  69),  and  thence  leads  northward, 
passing  below  Tekoa  (Robinson,  Bib.  lies,  i,  501,  508). 
The  valley  (“brook,”  ver.  16),  at  the  end  of  which  the 
enemy  were  to  be  found,  was  probably  the  wady  Jehar, 
which,  with  its  continuation  wady  el-Ghar,  traverses 
the  southern  part  of  this  plateau  (Robinson’s  lies,  ii, 
185) ; and  its  upper  end  appears  to  have  been  the  same 
through  which  the  triumphant  host  passed  on  their  re- 
turn. and  named  it  Beraciiaii  (q.  v.),  i.  e.  blessing , in 
commemoration  of  the  victory  (ver.  26). 

Jeru'salem  (Heb.  Yeruskala'im,  fully  [in 

1 Chron.  iii,  5;  2 Chron.  xxv,  1 ; Esth.  ii,  6;  Jer.  xxvi, 
18]  Yeruskala'yim  [with  final  >1  directive, 

rrcVrip?,  1 Kings  X,  2;  fully  2 Chron. 

xxxii,  9] ; Chald.  or  tVjn",  Yerushelem'  ; 

Syr.  U risMem ; Gr.  or  [rn]  Tepo (ToXvfia 

[Gen.  -vfuov~\ ; Latin  Hierosotyma),  poetically  also  Sa- 
lem (3P’j,  Shalem '),  and  once  Ariel  (q.  v.)  ; original- 
ly Jebus  (q.  v.);  in  sacred  themes  the  “City  of  God,” 
or  the  “ Holy  City”  (Neh.  xi,  1,  16;  Matt,  iv,  5),  as  in 
the  modern  Arab,  name  el-Kkuds,  the  Holy  (comp. \fpa- 
7ro\tc,  Philo,  Opp.  ii,  524) ; once  (2  Chron.  xxv,  28)  the 
“city  of  Judah.”  The  Heb.  name  is  a dual  form  (see 
Gesenius,  Lehrg.  p.  539  sq. ; Ewald, Krit.  Gramm,  p.  332), 
and  is  of  disputed  etymology  (see  Gesenius,  Thes.  Heb. 
p.  628;  Rosenmuller,  AUherth.  II,  ii,  202;  Ewald,  Jsr. 
Gesch.  ii,  584),  but  probably  signifies  possession  of  peace 
(q.  d.  [rather  than  cVj  Jp,?,  i.  e.  founda- 

tion of  peace,  as  preferred  by  Gesenius  and  Fitrst]),  the 
dual  referring  to  the  two  chief  mountains  (Zion  and  Mo- 
riah) on  which  it  was  built,  or  the  two  main  parts  (the 
Upper  and  the  Lower  City,  i.  e.  Zion  and  Acra).  It  has 
been  known  under  the  above  titles  in  all  ages  as  the 
Jewish  capital  of  Palestine. 

1.  History. — This  is  so  largely  made  up  of  the  history 
of  Palestine  itself  in  different  ages,  and  of  its  successive 
rulers,  that  for  minute  details  we  refer  to  these  (see  es- 
pecially Jld.ka)  ; we  here  present  only  a general  sur- 
vey, chiefly  condensed  from  the  account  in  lvitto’s  Cy- 
clopaedia. 

L This  city  is  mentioned  very  early  in  Scripture,  be- 
ing usually  supposed  to  be  the  Salem  of  which  Mel- 
chizedek  was  king  (Gen.  xiv,  18).  B.C.  cir.  2080.  Such 
was  the  opinion  of  the  Jews  themselves;  for  Josephus, 
who  calls  Melchizedek  king  of  Solyma  (SoXu/ua),  ob- 
serves that  this  name  was  afterwards  changed  into  Hi- 
erosolvma  (A  nt.  i,  10, 3).  AH  the  fathers  of  the  Church, 


Jerome  excepted,  agree  with  Josephus,  and  understand 
Jerusalem  and  Salem  to  indicate  the  same  place.  The 
Psalmist  also  says  (lxxvi,2),  “In  Salem  is  his  taber- 
nacle, and  his  dwelling-place  in  Zion.”  See  Salem. 

The  mountain  of  the  land  of  Moriah,  which  Abraham 
(Gen.  xxii,  2)  reached  on  the  third  day  from  Beersheba, 
there  to  offer  Isaac  (B.C.  cir.  2047),  is,  according  to  Jo- 
sephus {Ant.  i,  13, 2),  the  mountain  on  which  Solomon 
afterwards  built  the  Temple  (2  Chron.  iii,  1).  See  Mo- 
riah. 

The  question  of  the  identity  of  Jerusalem  with  “Ca- 
dy tis,  a large  city  of  Syria,”  “ almost  as  large  as  Sardis,” 
which  is  mentioned  by  Herodotus  (ii,  159 ; iii,  5)  as  hav- 
ing been  taken  by  Pliaraoh-Necho,  need  not  be  investi- 
gated in  this  place.  It  is  interesting,  and,  if  decided  in 
the  affirmative,  so  far  important  as  confirming  the  Scrip- 
ture narrative,  but  does  not  in  any  way  add  to  our 
knowledge  of  the  history  of  the  city.  The  reader  will 
find  it  fully  examined  in  Rawlinson’s  Herodotus,  ii,  246; 
Blakeslev’s  Herodotus — Excursus  on  Bk.  iii,  ch.  v (both 
against  identification) ; and  in  Kenrick’s  Egypt,  ii,  406, 
and  Diet,  of  Gic.  and  Rom.  Geogr.  ii,  17  (both  for  it). 

Nor  need  we  do  more  than  refer  to  the  traditions — if 
traditions  they  are,  and  not  mere  individual  specula- 
tions— cf  Tacitus  ( Hist.v , 2)  and  Plutarch  (/s.  et  Osir. 
ch.  xxxi)  of  the  foundation  of  the  city  by  a certain  Ili- 
erosolymus,  a son  of  the  Typhon  (see  Winer’s  note,  i, 
545).  All  the  certain  information  to  be  obtained  as  to 
the  early  history  of  Jerusalem  must  be  gathered  from 
the  books  of  the  Jewish  historians  alone. 

2.  The  name  Jerusalem  first  occurs  in  Josh,  x,  1 , where 
Adonizedelc  (q.  v.),  king  of  Jerusalem,  is  mentioned  as 
having  entered  into  an  alliance  with  other  kings  against 
[ Joshua,  by  whom  they  were  all  overcome  (comp.  Josh. 

! xii,  10).  B.C.  1618.  See  Joshua. 

In  drawing  the  northern  border  of  Judah,  we  find  Je- 
rusalem again  mentioned  (Josh,  xv,  8;  compare  Josh, 
xv iii,  16).  This  border  ran  through  the  valley  of  Ben- 
Hinnom;  the  country  on  the  south  of  it,  as  Bethlehem, 
belonged  to  Judah  ; but  the  mountain  of  Zion,  forming 
the  northern  wall  of  the  valley,  and  occupied  by  the 
Jebusites,  appertained  to  Benjamin.  Among  the  cities 
of  Benjamin,  therefore,  is  also  mentioned  (Josh,  xviii, 
28)  “ Jebus,  which  is  Jerusalem”  (comp.  Judg.  xix,  10; 
1 Chron.  xi,  4).  At  a later  date,  however,  owing  to  the 
conquest  of  Jebus  by  David,  the  line  ran  on  the  north- 
ern side  of  Zion,  leaving  the  city  equally  divided  be- 
tween the  two  tribes.  See  Tribe.  There  is  a rabbini- 
cal tradition  that  part  of  the  Temple  was  in  the  lot  of 
Judah,  and  part  of  it  in  that  of  Benjamin  (Liglitfoot,  i, 
1050,  Lond.  1684).  See  Temple. 

After  the  death  of  Joshua,  when  there  remained  for 
the  children  of  Israel  much  to  conquer  in  Canaan,  the 
Lord  directed  Judah  to  fight  against  the  Canaanites; 
and  they  took  Jerusalem,  smote  it  with  the  edge  of  the 
sword,  and  set  it  on  fire  (Judg.  i,  1-8),  B.C.  cir.  1590. 
After  that,  the  Judaliites  and  the  Benjamites  dwelt  with 
the  Jebusites  at  Jerusalem;  for  it  is  recorded  (Josh,  xv, 
63)  that  the  children  of  Judah  could  not  drive  out  the 
Jebusites  inhabiting  Jerusalem;  and  we  are  farther  in- 
formed (Judg.  i,  21)  that  the  children  of  Benjamin  did 
not  expel  them  from  Jerusalem  (comp.  Judg.  xix,  10- 
12).  Probably  the  Jebusites  were  removed  by  Judah 
only  from  the  lower  city,  but  kept  possession  of  the 
mountain  of  Zion,  which  David  conquered  at  a later  pe- 
riod. This  is  the  explanation  of  Josephus  (A  nt.  v,  2, 2). 
See  Jebus.  Jerusalem  is  not  again  mentioned  till  the 
time  of  Saul,  when  it  is  stated  (1  Sam.  xvii,  54)  that  Da- 
vid took  the  head  of  Goliath  and  brought  it  to  Jerusa- 
lem, B.C.  cir.  1063.  When  David,  who  had  previously 
reigned  over  Judah  alone  in  Hebron,  was  called  to  rule 
over  all  Israel,  he  led  his  forces  against  the  Jebusites, 
and  conquered  the  castle  of  Zion  which  Joab  first  scaled 
(1  Sam.  v,  5-9;  1 Chron.  xii,  4-8).  He  then  fixed  liis 
abode  on  this  mountain,  and  called  it  “the  city  of  Da- 
vid,” B.C.  cir.  1044.  He  strengthened  its  fortifications 
[see  Millo],  but  does  not  appear  to  have  enlarged  it. 


JERUSALEM  838  JERUSx\LEM 


Thither  he  carried  the  ark  of  the  covenant;  and  there 
he  built  to  the  Lord  an  altar  in  the  threshing-floor  of 
Araunah  the  Jebusite,  on  the  place  where  the  angel 
stood  who  threatened  Jerusalem  with  pestilence  (2  Sam. 
xxiv  15-25).  But  David  could  not  build  a house  for 
the  name  of  the  Lord  his  God  on  account  of  the  wars 
which  were  about  him  on  every  side  (2  Sam.  vii,  13 ; 1 
Kinn-s  v,3-5).  Still  the  Lord  announced  to  him,  through 
the  prophet  Nathan  (2  Sam.  vii,  10),  “1  will  appoint  a 
place  for  my  people  Israel,  and  will  plant  them,  that 
they  may  dwell  in  a place  of  their  own  and  move  no 
more,”  B.C.  cir.  1043.  From  this  it  would  seem  that 
even  David  had,  then  at  least,  no  assurance  that  Jerusa- 
lem in  particular  was  to  be  the  place  which  had  so  of- 
ten been  spoken  of  as  that  which  God  would  choose  for 
the  central  seat  of  the  theocratical  monarchy,  and  which 
it  became  after  Solomon’s  Temple  had  been  built.  See 
Tejiple. 

3.  The  reasons  which  led  David  to  fix  upon  Jerusalem 
as  the  metropolis  of  his  kingdom  are  noticed  elsewhere 
[see  David],  being,  chiefly,  that  it  was  in  his  own  tribe 
of  Judah,  in  which  his  influence  was  the  strongest,  while 
it  was  the  nearest  to  the  other  tribes  of  any  site  he  could 
have  chosen  in  Judah.  The  peculiar  strength  also  of 
the  situation,  inclosed  on  three  sides  by  a natural  trench 
of  valleys,  could  not  be  without  weight.  Its  great 
strength,  according  to  the  military  notions  of  that  age, 
is  shown  by  the  length  of  time  the  Jebusites  were  able 
to  keep  possession  of  it  against  the  force  of  all  Israel. 
David  was  doubtless  the  best  judge  of  his  own  interests 
in  this  matter;  but  if  those  interests  had  not  come  into 
play,  and  if  he  had  only  considered  the  best  situation 
for  a metropolis  of  the  whole  kingdom,  it  is  doubtful 
whether  a more  central  situation  with  respect  to  all 
the  tribes  would  not  have  been  far  preferable,  especially 
as  the  law  required  all  the  adult  males  of  Israel  to  re- 
pair three  times  in  the  year  to  the  place  of  the  divine 
presence.  Indeed,  the  burdensome  character  of  this  ob- 
ligation to  the  more  distant  tribes  seems  to  have  been 
one  of  the  excuses  for  the  revolt  of  the  ten  tribes,  as  it 
certainly  was  for  the  establishment  of  schismatic  altars 
in  Dan  and  Betli-el  (1  Kings  xii,  28).  Many  travellers 
have  suggested  that  Samaria,  which  afterwards  became, 
the  metropolis  of  the  separated  kingdom,  was  far  prefer- 
able to  Jerusalem  for  the  site  of  a capital  city;  and  its 
central  situation  would  also  have  been  in  its  favor  as  a 
metropolis  for  all  the  tribes.  But  as  the  choice  of  Da- 
vid was  subsequently  confirmed  by  the  divine  appoint- 
ment, which  made  Mount  Moriah  the  site  of  the  Tem- 
ple, we  arc  bound  to  consider  the  choice  as  having  been 
providentially  ordered  with  reference  to  the  contingen- 
cies that  afterwards  arose,  by  which  Jerusalem  was 
made  the  capital  of  the  separate  kingdom  of  Judah,  for 
which  it  was  well  adapted. . See  Judah. 

The  promise  made  to  David  received  its  accomplish- 
ment when  Solomon  built  his  Temple  upon  Mount  Mo- 
riah, B.C.  1010.  lie  also  added  towers  to  the  walls,  and 
otherwise  greatly  adorned  the  city.  By  him  and  his 
father  Jerusalem  had  been  made  the  imperial  residence 
of  the  king  of  all  Israel;  and  the  Temple,  often  called 
“ the  house  of  Jehovah,”  constituted  at  the  same  time 
the  residence  of  the  King  of  kings,  the  supreme  head 
of  the  theocratical  state,  whose  vicegerents  the  human 
kings  were  taught  to  regard  themselves.  It  now  be- 
longed, even  less  than  a town  of  the  Levites,  to  a par- 
ticular tribe:  it  was  the  centre  of  all  civil  and  religious 
affairs,  the  very  place  of  which  Moses  spoke,  Deut.  xii, 
5:  “The  place  which  the  Lord  your  God  shall  choose 
out  of  all  your  tribes  to  put  his  name  there,  even  unto 
his  habitation  shall  ye  seek,  and  thither  thou  shalt  come” 
(eomp.ix,6;  xiii,  1*4;  xiv,  23;  xvi,  11-10;  Fsa.  cxxii). 
Bee  Solomon. 

Jerusalem  was  not,  indeed,  politically  important:  it 
was  not  tl*c  capital  of  a powerful  empire  directing  the 
affairs  of  other  states,  but  it  stood  high  in  the  bright 
prospects  foretold  by  David  when  declaring  his  faith  in 
the  coming  of  a Messiah  (Psa.ii,G;  1,2;  lxxxvii;  cii, 


1G-22;  cx,  2).  In  all  these  passages  the  name  Zion  is 
used,  which,  although  properly  applied  to  the  southern- 
most part  of  the  site  of  Jerusalem,  is  often  in  Scripture 
put  poetically  for  Jerusalem  generally,  and  sometimes 
for  Mount  Moriah  and  its  Temple.  Sec  Zion. 

The  importance  and  splendor  of  Jerusalem  were  con- 
siderably lessened  after  the  death  of  Solomon,  under 
whose  son  liehoboam  ten  of  the  tribes  rebelled,  Judah 
and  Benjamin  only  remaining  in  their  allegiance,  B.C. 
973.  Jerusalem  was  then  only  the  capital  of  the  very 
small  state  of  Judah.  When  Jeroboam  instituted  the 
worship  of  golden  calves  in  Betli-el  and  Dan,  the  ten 
tribes  went  no  longer  up  to  Jerusalem  to  worship  and 
sacrifice  in  the  house  of  the  Lord  (1  Kings  xii,  2G-80). 
Sec  ISUAKL,  KINGDOM  OK. 

After  this  time  the  history  of  Jerusalem  is  continued 
in  the  history  of  Judah,  for  which  the  second  book  of 
the  Kings  and  of  the  Chronicles  are  the  principal  sources 
of  information.  After  the  time  of  Solomon,  the  king- 
dom of  Judah  was  almost  alternately  ruled  by  good 
kings, “who  did  that  which  was  right  in  the  sight  of 
the  Lord,”  and  by  such  as  were  idolatrous  and  evil-dis- 
posed; and  the  reign  of  the  same  king  often  varied,  and 
was  by  turns  good  or  evil.  The  condition  of  the  king- 
dom, and  of  Jerusalem  in  particular  as  its  metropolis, 
was  very  much  affected  by  these  mutations.  Under 
good  kings  the  city  flourished,  and  under  bad  kings  it 
suffered  greatly.  Under  liehoboam  (q.  v.)  it  was  con- 
quered by  Shishak  (q.  v.),  king  of  Egypt,  who  pillaged 
the  treasures  of  the  Temple  (2  Chron.  xii,  9),  B.C.  970. 
Under  Amaziah  (q.  v.)  it  was  taken  by  Jehoash,  king  of 
Israel,  who  broke  down  four  hundred  cubits  of  the  wall 
of  the  city,  and  took  all  the  gold  and  silver,  and  all  the 
vessels  that  were  found  in  the  Temple  (2  Kings  xiv,  13, 
14),  B.C.  cir.  830.  Uzziali  (q.v.),  son  of  Amaziah,  who 
at  first  reigned  well,  built  towers  in  Jerusalem  at  the 
corner-gate,  at  the  vallev-gate,  and  at  the  turning  of 
the  wail,  and  fortified  them  (2  Chron.  xxvi,  9),  B.C.  cir„ 
807.  His  son,  Jotham  (q.  v.),  built  the  high  gate  of  the 
Temple,  and  reared  up  many  other  structures  (2  Chron. 
xxvii,  3,  4),  B.C,  cir.  755.  Hezekiah  (q.  v.)  added  to 
the  other  honors  of  his  reign  that  of  an  improver  of  Je- 
rusalem (2  Chron.  xxix,  34,  B.C.  72G.  At  a later  date, 
however,  lie  despoiled  the  Temple  in  some  degree  in  or- 
der to  pay  the  levy  imposed  by  the  ki  lg  of  Assyria  (2 
Kings  xviii,  15,  1G),  B.C.  713.  But  in  the  latter  part 
of  the  same  year  he  performed  his  most  eminent  service 
for  the  city  by  stopping  the  upper  course  of  Gilion,  and 
bringing  its  waters  by  a subterraneous  aqueduct  to  the 
west  side  .of  the  city  (2  Chron.  xxxii,  30).  This  work 
is  inferred,  from  2 Kings  xx,  to  have  been  of  great  im- 
portance to  Jerusalem,  as  it  cut  off  a supply  of  water 
from  any  besieging  enemy,  and  bestowed  it  upon  the  in- 
habitants of  the  city.  The  immediate  occasion  was  the 
threatened  invasion  by  the  Assyrians.  See  Sennache- 
rib. Hezekiah’s  son,  Manasseh  (q.  v.),  was  punished  by 
a capture  of  the  city  in  consequence  of  his  idolatrous 
desecration  of  the  Temple  (2  Chron.  xxxiii,  11),  B.C.  cir. 
GOO ; but  in  his  later  and  best  years  he  built  a strong 
i and  very  high  wall  on  the  west  side  of  Jerusalem  (2 
Chron.  xxxiii,  14).  The  works  in  the  city  connected 
with  the  names  of  the  succeeding  kings  of  Judah  were, 
so  far  as  recorded,  confined  to  the  defilement  of  the  house 
of  the  Lord  by  bad  kings,  and  its  purgation  by  good 
kings,  the  most  important  of  the  latter  being  the  repair- 
ing of  the  Temple  by  Josiah  (2  Kings  xx,  xxiii),  B.C. 
G23,  till  for  the  abounding  iniquities  of  the  nation  the  city 
and  Temple  were  abandoned  to  destruction,  after  several 
preliminary  spoliations  by  the  Egyptians  (2  Kings  xxiii, 
33-35),  B.C.  609,  and  Babylonians  (2  Kings  xxiv,  14),  B. 
C.  GOG,  and  again  (2  Kings  xxiv,  13),  B.C.  598.  Finally, 
after  a siege  of  three  years,  Jerusalem  was  taken  by 
Nebuchadnezzar,  who  razed  its  walls,  and  destroyed  its 
Temple  and  palaces  with  fire  (2  Kings  xxv ; 2 Chron. 
xxxvi ; Jer.  xxxix),  B.C.  588.  Thus  was  Jerusalem 
1 smitten  with  the  calamity  which  Moses  had  prophesied 
I would  befall  it  if  the  people  would  not  keep  the  com- 


JERUSALEM 


839 


JERUSALEM 


Ancient  Assyrian  delineation  of  a hostile  city  resembling  Jerusalem  in  situation. 


mandments  of  the  Lord,  but  broke  his  covenant  (Lev. 
xxvi,  14;  Deut.  xxviii).  The  finishing  stroke  to  this 
desolation  was  put  by  the  retreat  of  the  principal  Jews, 
on  the  massacre  of  Gedaliah,  into  Egypt,  B.C.  587,  where 
they  were  eventually'  involved  in  the  conquest  of  that 
country’  by  the  Babylonians  (Jer.  xl-xliv).  Meanwhile 
the  feeble  remnant  of  the  lower  classes,  who  had  clung 
to  their  native  soil  amid  all  these  reverses,  were  swept 
away7  by7  a final  deportation  to  Babylon,  which  left  the 
land  literally7  without  an  inhabitant  (Jer.  lii,  30).  B.C. 
582.  See  Nebuchadnezzar. 

Moses  had  long  before  predicted  that  if,  in  the  land  of 
their  captivity7,  his  afilicted  countrymen  repented  of  their 
evil,  they  should  be  brought  back  again  to  the  land  out 
of  which  they7  had  been  cast  (Deut.  xxx,  1-5;  comp.  I 
Kings  viii,  46-53 ; Neh.  i,  8,  9).  The  Lord  also,  through 
Isaiah,  condescended  to  point  out  the  agency7  through 
which  the  restoration  of  the  holy  city  was  to  be  accom- 
plished, and  even  named,  long  before  his  birth,  the  very 
person,  Cy’rns,  under  whose  orders  this  was  to  be  effect- 
ed (Isa.  xliv,  28 ; comp.  Jer.  iii,  2,  7, 8 ; xxiii,  3 ; xxxi, 
10;  xxxii,  36, 37).  Among  the  remarkably  precise  in- 
dications should  be  mentioned  that  in  which  Jeremiah 
(xxv,  9-12)  limits  the  duration  of  Judah’s  captivity  to 
seventy  years.  See  Captivity.  These  encourage- 
ments were  continued  through  the  prophets,  who  them- 
selves shared  the  captivity'.  Of  this  number  was  Daniel, 
to  whom  it  was  revealed,  while  yet  pray'ing  for  the  res- 
toration of  his  people  (Dan.  ix,  16, 19),  that  the  streets 
and  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  should  be  built  again,  even 
in  troublous  times  (vcr.25).  See  Seventy  Weeks. 

4.  Daniel  lived  to  see  the  reign  of  Cyrus,  king  of  Per- 
sia (Dan.  x,  1),  and  the  fulfilment  of  his  pray'er.  It  was 
in  the  yrear  B.C.  536,  “ in  the  first  y'ear  of  Cyrus,”  that,  in 
accomplishment  of  the  prophecy  of  Jeremiah,  the  Lord 
stirred  up  the  spirit  of  this  prince,  who  made  a procla- 
mation throughout  all  his  kingdom,  expressed  in  these 
remarkable  words : “ The  Lord  God  of  heaven  hath  given 
me  all  the  kingdoms  of  the  earth,  and  he  has  ckarr/ed  me 
to  buihl  him  a house  at  Jerusalem,  which  is  in  Judah. 
Who  is  there  among  you  of  all  his  people?  his  God  be 
with  him,  and  let  him  go  up  to  Jerusalem,  and  build  the 
house  of  the  Lord  God  of  Israel”  (Ezra  i,  2, 3).  This 
important  call  was  answered  by'  a considerable  number 
of  persons,  particularly  priests  and  Levites;  and  the 
many  who  declined  to  quit  their  houses  and  possessions 
in  Babylonia  committed  valuable  gifts  to  the  hands  of 
their  more  zealous  brethren.  Cywns  also  caused  the  sa- 
cred vessels  of  gold  and  silver  which  Nebuchadnezzar 
had  taken  from  the  Temple  to  be  restored  to  Slieslibaz- 
zar,  the  prince  of  Judah,  who  took  them  to  Jerusalem, 
followed  by  42,360  people,  besides  their  servants,  of  whom 
there  were  7337  (Ezra  i,  5-11). 

On  their  arrival  at  Jerusalem  they  contributed,  ac- 
cording to  their  ability,  to  rebuild  the  Temple;  Jeshua 
the  priest,  and  Zerubbabel,  reared  up  an  altar  to  offer 
burnt-offerings  thereon ; and  when,  in  the  following 
year,  the  foundation  was  laid  of  the  new  house  of  God, 


“ the  people  shouted  for  joy’, 
but  many  of  the  Levites 
who  had  seen  the  first  Tem- 
ple wept  with  a loud  voice” 
(Ezra  iii,  2, 1 2).  When  the 
Samaritans  expressed  a 
wish  to  share  in  the  pious 
labor,  Zerubbabel  declined 
the  offer,  and  in  revenge,  the 
Samaritans  sent  a deputa- 
tion to  king  Artaxerxes  of 
Persia,  carrying  a present- 
ment in  which  Jerusalem 
was  described  as  a rebel- 
lious city  of  old  time, which, 
if  rebuilt,  and  its  walls  set 
up  again,  would  not  pay 
toll,  tribute,  and  custom, 
and  would  thus  endamage 
the  public  revenue.  The  deputation  succeeded,  and 
Artaxerxes  ordered  that  the.  building  of  the  Temple 
should  cease.  The  interruption  thus  caused  lasted  to 
the  second  y’ear  of  the  reign  of  Darius  (Ezra  iv,  24), 
when  Zerubbabel  and  Jeshua,  supported  by  the  proph- 
ets Ilaggai  and  Zecliariah,  again  resumed  the  work,  and 
would  not  cease  though  cautioned  by  the  Persian  gov- 
ernor of  Juda?a,  B.C.  520.  On  the  matter  coming  be- 
fore Darius  Ily’staspis,  and  the  Jews  reminding  him 
of  the  permission  given  by'  Cyrus,  he  decided  in  their 
favor,  and  also  ordered  that  the  expenses  of  the  work 
should  be  defrayed  out  of  the  public  revenue  (Ezra  vi, 
8).  In  the  sixth  year  of  the  reign  of  Darius  the  Tem- 
ple was  finished,  when  they  kept  the  dedicatory'  festi- 
val with  great  joy’,  and  next  celebrated  the  Passover 
(Ezra  vi,  15, 16, 19),  B.C.  516.  Afterwards,  in  the  sev- 
enth year  of  the  second  Artaxerxes  (Longimanus),  Ezra, 
a descendant  of  Aaron,  came  up  to  Jerusalem,,  accompa- 
nied by7  a large  number  of  Jews  who  had  remained  in 
Babylon,  B.C.  459.  lie  was  highly  patronized  by  the 
king,  who  not  only'  made  him  a large  present  in  gold 
and  silver,  but  published  a decree  enjoining  all  treas- 
urers of  JucUea  speedily  to  do  whatever  Ezra  should  re- 
quire of  them ; allowing  him  to  collect  money  through- 
out the  whole  province  of  Babylon  for  the  wants  of  the 
Temple  at  Jerusalem,  and  also  giving  him  full  power 
to  appoint  magistrates  in  his  country  to  judge  the  peo- 
ple (Ezra  vii,  viii).  At  a later  period,  in  the  twentieth 
year  of  king  Artaxerxes,  Nchemiah,  who  was  his  cup- 
bearer, obtained  permission  to  proceed  to  Jerusalem,  and 
to  complete  the  rebuilding  of  the  city’  and  its  wall,  which 
he  happily’  accomplished,  in  spite  of  all  the  opposition 
which  he  received  from  the  enemies  of  Israel  (Neh.  i,  ii, 
iv,  vi),  B.C.  446.  The  eitv  was  then  capacious  and  large, 
but  the  people  in  it  were  few,  and  many'  houses  still  lay 
in  ruins  (Neh.  vii,  4).  At  Jerusalem  dwelt  the  rulers 
of  the  people  and  certain  of  the  children  of  Judah  and 
of  the  children  of  Benjamin ;”  but  it  was  now  determined 
that  the  rest  of  the  people  should  cast  lots  to  bring  one 
of  ten  to  the  capital  ( Neh.  xi,  1-4),  B.C.  cir.  440.  On 
Nehemiah’s  return,  after  several  years’  absence  to  court, 
all  strangers,  Samaritans, Ammonites.  Moabites,  etc.,  were 
removed,  to  keep  the  chosen  people  from  pollution;  min- 
isters were  appointed  to  the  Temple,  and  the  service  was 
performed  according  to  the  law  of  Moses  (Ezra  x ; Neh. 
viii,  x,  xii,  xiii),  B.G.  cir.  410.  Of  the  Jerusalem  thus  by 
such  great  and  long-continued  exertions  restored,  very- 
splendid  prophecies  were  uttered  by  those  prophets  who 
flourisheti  after  the  exile ; the  general  purport  of  which 
was  to  describe  the  Temple  and  city7  as  destined  to  bo 
glorified  far  beyond  the  former,  by7  the  advent  of  the 
long  and  eagerly-expected  Messiah,  “ the  desire  of  all 
nations”  (Zech.  ix,  9;  xii,  10;  xiii,  3;  Hagg.  ii,  6,  7; 
Mai.  iii,  11).  See  Ezra;  Neiiejiiaii. 

5.  For  the  subsequent  history7  of  Jerusalem  (which  is 
closely  connected  with  that  of  Palestine  in  general), 
down  to  its  destruction  by'  the  Homans,  we  must  draw 
chiefly  upon  Josephus  and  the  books  of  the  Maccabees. 


JERUSALEM  840  JERUSALEM 


It  is  said  by  Josephus  (Ant.  xi,8)  that  when  the  do- 
minion of  this  part  of  the  world  passed  from  the  Per- 
sians to  the  Greeks,  Alexander  the  Great  advanced 
against  Jerusalem  to  punish  it  for  the  fidelity  to  the 
Persians  which  it  had  manifested  while  he  was  engaged 
in  the  siege  of  Tyre.  His  hostile  purposes,  however, 
were  averted  by  the  appearance  of  the  high-priest  Jad- 
dua  at  the  head  of  a train  of  priests  in  their  sacred  vest- 
ments. Alexander  recognised  in  him  the  figure  which 
in  a dream  had  encouraged  him  to  undertake  the  con- 
quest of  Asia.  He  therefore  treated  him  with  respect 
and  reverence,  spared  the  city  against  which  his  wrath 
had  been  kindled,  and  granted  to  the  Jews  high  and  im- 
portant privileges.  The  historian  adds  that  the  high- 
priest  failed  not  to  apprise  the  conqueror  of  those  proph- 
ecies in  Daniel  by  which  his  successes  had  been  predict- 
ed. The  whole  of  this  story  is,  however,  liable  to  sus- 
picion, from  the  absence  of  any  notice  of  the  circum- 
stance in  the  histories  of  this  campaign  which  we  pos- 
sess. See  Alexander  the  Great. 

After  the  death  of  Alexander  at  Dabvlon  (B.C.  324), 
Ptolemy  surprised  Jerusalem  on  the  Sabbath  day,  when 
the  Jews  would  not  fight,  plundered  the  city,  and  car- 
ried away  a great  number  of  the  inhabitants  to  Egypt,, 
where,  however,  from  the  estimation  in  which  the  Jews 
of  this  period  were  held  as  citizens,  important  privileges 
were  bestowed  upon  them  (Joseph.  A nt.  xii,  1).  In  the 
contests  which  afterwards  followed  for  the  possession  of 
Syria  (including  Palestine),  Jerusalem  does  not  appear 
to  have  been  directly  injured,  and  was  even  spared  when 
Ptolemy  gave  up  Samaria,  Acco,  Joppa,  and  Gaza  to  pil- 
lage. The  contest  was  ended  by  the  treaty  in  B.C.  302, 
which  annexed  the  whole  of  Palestine,  together  with 
Arabia  Petraea  and  Coele-Syria  to  Egypt.  Under  easy 
subjection  to  the  Ptolemies,  the  Jews  remained  in  much 
tranquillity  for  more  than  a hundred  years,  in  which 
the  principal  incident,  as  regards  Jerusalem  itself,  was 
the  visit  which  was  paid  to  it,  in  B.C.  245,  by  Ptolem}' 
Euergctes,  on  his  return  from  his  victories  in  the  East. 
He  offered  many  sacrifices,  and  made  magnificent  pres- 
ents to  the  Temple.  In  the  wars  between  Antiochus 
the  Great  and  the  kings  of  Egypt,  from  B.C.  221  to  197, 
Judina  could  not  fail  to  suffer  severely;  but  wc  are  not 
acquainted  with  any  incident  in  which  Jerusalem  was 
principally  concerned  till  the  alleged  visit  of  Ptolemy 
Philopator  in  B.C.  211.  lie  offered  sacrifices,  and  gave 
rich  gifts  to  the  Temple,  but,  venturing  to  enter  the 
sanctuary  in  spite  of  the  remonstrances  of  the  high- 
priest,  he  was  seized  with  a supernatural  dread,  and  tied 
in  terror  from  the  place.  It  is  said  that  on  his  return  to 
Egypt  he  vented  his  rage  on  the  Jews  of  Alexandria  in 
a very  barbarous  manner.  See  Alexandria.  But  the 
whole  story  of  his  visit  and  its  results  rests  upon  the  sole 
authority  of  the  third  book  of  Maccabees  (chaps,  i and 
iii),  and  is  therefore  not  entitled  to  implicit  credit.  To- 
wards the  end  of  this  war  the  Jews  seemed  to  favor  the 
cause  of  Antiochus;  and  after  he  had  subdued  the  neigh- 
boring country,  they  voluntarily  tendered  their  submis- 
sion, and  rendered  tiieir  assistance  in  expelling  the  Egyp- 
tian garrison  from  Mount  Zion.  For  this  conduct  they 
were  rewarded  by  many  important  privileges  by  Anti- 
ochus. He  issued  decrees  directing,  among  other’things, 
that  the  outworks  of  the  Temple  should  he  completed, 
and  that  all  the  materials  for  needful  repairs  should  be 
exempted  from  taxes.  The  peculiar  sanctity  of  the 
1cm pic  was  also  to  be  respected.  No  foreigner  was  to 
pass  the  sacred  walls,  and  the  city  itself  was  to  be  pro- 
tected Irom  pollution ; it  being  strictly  forbidden  that 
the  flesh  or  skins  of  any  beasts  which  t he  Jews  account- 
ed unclean  should  be  brought  into  it  (Joseph.  Ant.  xii, 3, 
3).  These  were  very  liberal  concessions  to  what  the 
king  himself  must  have  regarded  as  the  prejudices  of 
the  Jewish  people. 

Under  their  new  masters  the  Jews  enjoyed  for  a time 
nearly  as  much  tranquillity  as  under  the  generally  be- 
nign and  liberal  government  of  the  Ptolemies.  But  in 
B.C.  176,  Scleueus  Philopator,  hearing  that  great  treas- 


ures were  hoarded  up  in  the  Temple,  and  being  distress- 
ed for  money  to  carry  on  his  wars,  sent  his  treasurer, 
Heliodorus,  to  bring  away  these  treasures.  But  this 
personage  is  reported  to  have  been  so  frightened  and 
stricken  by  an  apparition  that  be  relinquished  the  at- 
tempt, and  Seleucus  left  the  Jews  in  the  undisturbed 
enjoyment  of  their  rights  (2  Macc.  iii,  4-40 ; Joseph.  Ant. 
xii,  3, 3).  His  brother  and  successor,  Antiochus  Epiph- 
anes,  however,  was  of  another  mind.  He  took  up  the 
design  of  reducing  them  to  a conformity  of  maimers  and 
religion  with  other  nations;  or,  in  other  words,  of  abol- 
ishing those  distinctive  features  which  made  the  Jews  a 
peculiar  people,  socially  separated  from  all  others.  This 
design  was  odious  to  the  great  body  of  the  people,  al- 
though there  were  many  among  the  higher  classes  who 
regarded  it  with  favor.  Of  this  way  of  thinking  was 
Menelaus,  whom  Antiochus  had  made  high-priest,  and 
who  was  expelled  by  the  orthodox  Jews  with  ignominy, 
in  B.C.  169,  when  they  heard  the  joyful  news  that  Anti- 
ochus had  been  slain  in  Egypt.  The  rumor  proved  un- 
true, and  Antiochus,  on  his  return,  punished  them  by 
plundering  and  profaning  the  Temple.  Worse  evils  be- 
fell them  two  years  after;  for  Antiochus,  out  of  humor 
at  being  compelled  by  the  Bomans  to  abandon  his  de- 
signs upon  Egypt,  sent  his  chief  collector  of  tribute, 
Apollonius,  with  a detachment  of  22,000  men,  to  vent 
his  rage  on  Jerusalem.  This  person  plundered  the  city 
and  razed  its  walls,  with  the  stones  of  which  he  built  a 
citadel  that  commanded  the  Temple  Mount.  A statue 
of  Jupiter  was  set  up  in  the  Temple;  the  peculiar  ob- 
servances of  the  Jewish  law  were  abolished,  and  a per- 
secution was  commenced  against  all  who  adhered  to 
these  observances,  and  refused  to  sacrifice  to  idols.  Je- 
rusalem was  deserted  by  priests  and  people, and  the  daily 
sacrifice  at  tlie  altar  was  entirely  discontinued  (1  Maec. 
i,  29-40 ; 2 Macc.  v,  24-26 ; Joseph.  A nt.  xii,  5, 4).  See 
Antiochus  Epipiianes. 

This  led  to  the  celebrated  revolt  of  the  Maccabees, 
who,  after  an  arduous  and  sanguinary  struggle,  obtain- 
ed possession  of  Jerusalem  (B.C.  163),  and  repaired  and 
purified  the  Temple,  which  was  then  dilapidated  and  de- 
serted. New  utensils  were  provided  for  the  sacred  ser- 
vices: the  old  altar,  which  had  been  polluted  by  heathen 
abominations,  was  taken  away,  and  a new  one  erected. 
The  sacrifices  were  then  recommenced,  exactly  three 
years  after  the  Temple  had  been  dedicated  to  Jupiter 
Olympius.  The  castle,  however,  remained  in  the  hands 
of  the  Syrians,  and  long  proved  a sore  annoyance  to  the 
Jews,  although  Judas  Maccabanis  surrounded  the  Tem- 
ple with  a high  and  strong  wall,  furnished  with  towers, 
in  which  soldiers  were  stationed  to  protect  the  worship- 
pers from  the  Syrian  garrison  (1  Macc.  i,  36, 37 ; Joseph. 
Ant.  vii,  7).  Eventually  the  annoyance  grew  so  intol- 
erable that  Judas  laid  siege  to  the  castle.  This  attempt 
brought  a powerful  army  into  the  country  under  the 
command  of  the  regent  Lysias,  who,  however,  being 
constrained  to  turn  his  arms  elsewhere,  made  peace 
with  the  Jews;  but  when  he  was  admitted  into  the 
city,  and  observed  the  strength  of  the  place,  he  threw 
down  the  walls  in  violation  of  the  treaty  (1  Macc.  vi, 
48-65).  In  the  ensuing  war  with  Baccliides,  the  gen- 
eral of  Demetrius  Sotcr,  in  which  Judas  was  slain,  the 
Syrians  strengthened  their  citadel,  and  placed  in  it  the 
sons  of  the  principal  Jewish  families  as  hostages  (1 
Macc.  ix,  52,  53 ; Joseph.  A nt.  xiii,  1,3).  The  year  af- 
ter (B.G.  159)  the  temporizing  high-priest  Alcimus  di- 
rected the  Avail  which  separated  the  court  of  Israel  from 
that  of  the  Gentiles  to  be  cast  down,  to  afford  the  latter 
free  access  to  the  Temple;  but  he  AA'as  seized  Avith  palsy 
as  soon  as  the  Avork  commenced,  and  died  in  great  ago- 
ny (l  Macc.  ix,  51-57).  When,  a fcAV  years  after,  De- 
metrius and  Alexander  Balas  sought  to  outbid  each  oth- 
er for  the  support  of  Jonathan,  the  hostages  in  the  cas- 
tle were  released ; and  subsequently  all  the  Syrian  gar- 
risons in  Judjea  Avere  eAyacuated,  excepting  those  of  Jc- 
i rusalcm  and  Betlizur,  Avhieh  Avere  chiefly  occupied  by 
I apostate  JeAvs,  Avho  AArere  afraid  to  leave  their  places  of 


JERUSALEM 


841 


JERUSALEM 


refuge.  Jonathan  then  rebuilt  the  walls  of  Jerusalem, 
and  repaired  the  buildings  of  the  city,  besides  erecting 
a palace  for  his  own  residence  (1  Mace,  x,  2-4;  Joseph. 
Ant.  xiii,  2, 1).  The  particular  history  of  Jerusalem  for 
several  years  following  is  little  more  than  an  account  of 
the  efforts  of  the  Maccabaean  princes  to  obtain  possession 
of  the  castle,  and  of  the  Syrian  kings  to  retain  it  in  their 
hands.  At  length,  in  B.C.  142,  the  garrison  was  forced 
to  surrender  by  Simon,  who  demolished  it  altogether, 
that  it  might  not  again  be  used  against  the  Jews  by 
their  enemies.  Simon  then  strengthened  the  fortifica- 
tions of  the  mountain  on  which  the  Temple  stood,  and 
built  there  a palace  for  himself  (I  Mace,  xiii,  43-52 ; 
Joseph.  .4  nt.  xiii,  6, 6).  This  building  was  afterwards 
turned  into  a regular  fortress  by  John  Ilyrcanus  (q.v.), 
and  was  ever  after  the  residence  of  the  Maccabrean 
princes  (Joseph.  A nt.  xv,  11,4).  It  is  called  by  Josephus 
•‘the  castle  of  Baris,”  in  his  history  of  the  Jews;  till  it 
was  strengthened  and  enlarged  by  Herod  the  Great, 
who  called  it  the  castle  of  Antonia,  under  which  name 
it  makes  a conspicuous  figure  in  the  Jewish  wars  of  the 
Homans.  See  Maccabeus. 

6.  Of  Jerusalem  itself  we  find  no  notice  of  consequence 
in  the  next  period  till  it  was  taken  by  Pompey  (q.  v.) 
in  the  summer  of  B.C.  63,  and  on  the  very  day  observed 
by  the  Jews  as  one  of  lamentation  and  fasting,  in  com- 
memoration of  the  conquest  of  Jerusalem  by  Nebuchad- 
nezzar. Twelve  thousand  Jews  were  massacred  in  the 
Temple  courts,  including  many  priests,  who  died  at  the 
very  altar  rather  than  suspend  the  sacred  rites  (Joseph. 
Ant.  xiv,  1-4).  On  this  occasion,  Pompev,  attended  by 
his  generals,  went  into  the  Temple  and  viewed  the  sanc- 
tuary; but  he  left  untouched  all  its  treasures  and  sacred 
things,  while  the  walls  of  the  city  itself  were  demolish- 
ed. From  this  time  the  Jews  are  to  be  considered  as 
under  the  dominion  of  the  Komans  (Joseph,  Ant.  xiv, 
4,  5).  The  treasures  which  Pompey  had  spared  were 
seized  a few  years  after  (B.C.  51)  by  Crassns.  In  the 
year  B.C.  43,  the  walls  of  the  city,  which  Pompey  had 
demolished,  were  rebuilt  by  Antipater,  the  father  of  that 
Herod  the  Great  imder  whom  Jerusalem  was  destined 
to  assume  the  new  and  more  magnificent  aspect  which 
it  bore  in  the  time  of  Christ,  and  which  constituted  the 
Jerusalem  which  Josephus  describes.  See  Herod.  Un- 
der the  following  reign  the  city  was  improved  with  mag- 
nificent taste  and  profuse  expenditure ; and  even  the 
Temple,  which  always  formed  the  great  architectural 
glory  of  Jerusalem,  was  taken  down  and  rebuilt  by 
Ilerod  the  Great,  with  a splendor  exceeding  that  of  Sol- 
omon’s (Mark  xiii,  1 ; John  ii,  20).  See  Temple.  It 
was  in  the  courts  of  the  Temple  as  thus  rebuilt,  and  in 
the  streets  of  the  city  as  thus  improved,  that  the  Sav- 
iour of  men  walked  up  and  down.  Here  he  taught, 
here  he  wrought  miracles,  here  he  suffered;  and  this 
was  the  Temple  whose  “ goodly  stones”  the  apostle  ad- 
mired (Mark  xiii,  1),  and  of  which  he  foretold  that  ere 
the  existing  generation  had  passed  away  not  one  stone 
should  be  left  upon  another.  Nor  was  the  city  in  this 
state  admired  by  Jews  only.  Pliny  calls  it  “longc  ela- 
rissimam  urbium  orientis,  non  Jiultete  modo”  ( IHst.Xat . 
v,  16). 

Jerusalem  seems  to  have  been  raised  to  this  greatness 
as  if  to  enhance  the  misery  of  its  overthrow.  As  soon 
as  the  Jews  had  set  the  seal  to  their  formal  rejection  of 
Christ  by  putting  him  to  death,  and  invoking  the  re- 
sponsibility of  his  blood  upon  the  heads  of  themselves 
and  of  their  children  (Matt,  xxvii,  25),  its  doom  went 
forth.  After  having  been  the  scene  of  horrors  without 
example,  during  a memorable  siege,  the  process  of 
which  is  narrated  by  Josephus  in  full  detail,  it  was,  in 
A.P.  70,  captured  to  the  Ilomans,  who  razed  the  city 
and  Temple  to  the  ground,  leaving  only  three  of  the 
towers  and  a part  of  the  western  wall  to  show  how 
strong  a place  the  Roman  arms  had  overthrown  (Joseph. 
War,  vii,  1, 1).  Since  then  the  holy  city  has  lain  at 
the  mercy  of  the  Gentiles,  and  will  so  remain  **  until  the 
times  of  the  Gentiles  are  fulfilled.” 


The  destruction  of  Jerusalem  by  the  Romans  did  not 
cause  the  site  to  be  utterly  forsaken.  Titus  (q.  v.)  left 
there  in  garrison  the  whole  of  the  tenth  legion,  besides 
several  squadrons  of  cavalry  and  cohorts  of  foot.  For 
these  troops,  and  for  those  who  ministered  to  their 
wants,  there  must  have  been  dwellings;  and  there  is  no 
reason  to  suppose  that  such  Jews  or  Christians  as  ap- 
peared to  have  taken  no  part  in  the  war  were  forbidden 
to  make  their  abode  among  the  ruins,  and  building  them 
up  so  far  as  their  necessities  might  require.  But  noth- 
ing like  a restoration  of  the  city  could  have  arisen  from 
this,  as  it  was  not  likely  that  any  but  poor  people,  who 
found  an  interest  in  supplying  the  wants  of  the  garrison, 
were  likely  to  resort  to  the  ruins  under  such  circumstan- 
ces. However,  we  learn  from  Jerome  that  for  fifty  years 
after  its  destruction,  until  the  time  of  Hadrian,  there  still 
existed  remnants  of  the  city.  But  during  all  this  period 
there  is  no  mention  of  it  in  history. 

Up  to  A.D.  131  the  Jews  remained  tolerably  quiet, 
although  apparently  awaiting  any  favorable  opportuni- 
ty of  shaking  off  the  Roman  yoke.  The  then  emperor, 
Hadrian  (q.  v.),  seems  to  have  been  aware  of  this  state' 
of  feeling,  and,  among  other  measures  of  precaution,  or- 
dered Jerusalem  to  be  rebuilt  as  a fortified  place  where- 
with to  keep  in  check  the  whole  Jewish  population. 
The  works  had  made  some  progress  when  the  Jews,  un- 
able to  endure  the  idea  that  their  holy  eitv  should  be 
occupied  by  foreigners,  and  that  strange  gods  should  be 
set  up  within  it,  broke  out  into  open  rebellion  under  the 
notorious  Bareliochebas  (q.  v.),  who  claimed  to  be  the 
Messiah.  His  success  was  at  first  very  great,  but  he 
was  crushed  before  the  tremendous  power  of  the  Ho- 
mans, so  soon  as  it  could  be  brought  to  bear  upon  him ; 
and  a war  scarcely  inferior  in  horror  to  that  under  Ves- 
pasian and  Titus  was,  like  it,  brought  to  a close  by  the 
capture  of  Jerusalem,  of  which  the  J ews  had  obtained 
possession.  This  was  in  A.D.  135,  from  which  period 
the  final  dispersion  of  the  Jews  has  often  been  dated. 
The  Romans  then  finished  the  city  according  to  their 
first  intention.  It  was  made  a Roman  colony,  inhabited 
wholly  by  foreigners,  the  Jews  being  forbidden  to  ap- 
proach it  on  pain  of  death  : a temple  to  Jupiter  Capito- 
linus  was  erected  on  Mount  Moriah,  and  the  old  name 
of  Jerusalem  was  sought  to  be  supplanted  by  that  of 
JElia  Capitolina,  conferred  upon  it  in  honor  of  the  em- 
peror vElius  Hadrianus  and  Jupiter  Capitolinus.  By 
this  name  was  the  city  known  till  the  time  of  Constan- 
tine, when  that  of  Jerusalem  again  became  current, 
although  vElia  was  still  its  public  designation,  and  re- 
mained such  so  late  as  A.D.  536,  when  it  appears  in  the 
acts  of  a synod  held  there.  This  name  even  passed  to 
the  Mohammedans,  by  whom  it  was  long  retained ; ar.d 
it  was  not  till  after  they  recovered  the  city  from  the 
Crusaders  that  it  became  generally  known  among  thwn 
by  the  name  of  El-Kliuds — “the  holy” — which  it  still 
bears. 

7.  From  the  rebuilding  by  Hadrian  the  history  of  Je- 
rusalem is  almost  a blank  till  the  time  of  Constantine, 
when  its  history,  as  a place  of  extreme  solicitude  and 
interest  to  the  Christian  Church,  properly  begins.  Pil- 
grimages to  the  Holy  City  now  became  common  and 
popular.  Such  a pilgrimage  was  undertaken  in  A.D. 
326  by  the  emperor’s  mother  Helena,  then  in  the  eighti- 
eth year  of  her  age,  who  built  churches  on  the  alleged 
site  of  the  nativity  at  Bethlehem,  and  of  the  resurrec- 
tion on  the  Mount  of  Olives.  This  example  may  prob- 
ably have  excited  her  son  to  the  discovery  of  the  site 
of  the  holy  sepulchre,  and  to  the  erection  of  a church 
thereon.  He  removed  the  temple  of  Venus,  with  which, 
in  studied  insult,  the  site  had  been  encumbered.  The 
holy  sepulchre  was  then  purified,  and  a magnificent 
church  was,  by  his  order,  built  over  and  around  the  sa- 
cred spot.  This  temple  was  completed  and  dedicated 
with  great  solemnity  iu  A.D.  335.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  the  spot  thus  singled  out  is  the  same  that  has 
lever  since  been  regarded  as  the  place  in  which  Christ 
I was  entombed;  but  the  correctness  of  the  identification 


JERUSxVLEM  842  JERUSALEM 


then  made  lias  of  late  years  been  much  disputed,  on 
grounds  which  have  been  examined  in  the  article  Gol- 
gotha. The  very  cross  on  which  our  Lord  suffered 
was  also,  in  the  course  of  these  explorations,  believed  to 
have  been  discovered,  under  the  circumstances  which 
have  elsewhere  been  described.  See  Cross. 

By  Constantine  the  edict  excluding  the  Jews  from 
the  city  of  their  fathers’  sepulchres  was  so  far  repealed 
that  they  were  allowed  to  enter  it  once  a year  to  wail 
over  the  desolation  of  “the  holy  and  beautiful  house”  in 
which  their  fathers  worshipped  God.  When  the  neph- 
ew of  Constantine,  the  emperor  Julian  (q.v.),  abandoned 
Christianity  for  the  old  Paganism,  he  endeavored,  as  a 
matter  of  policy,  to  conciliate  the  Jew's.  lie  allowed 
them  free  access  to  the  city,  and  permitted  them  to  re- 
build their  Temple.  They  accordingly  began  to  lay  the 
foundations  in  A.D.  3G2;  but  the  speedy  death  of  the 
emperor  probably  occasioned  that  abandonment  of  the 
attempt  which  contemporary  w'riters  ascribe  to  super- 
natural htnderances.  The  edicts  seem  then  to  have 
been  renewed  which  excluded  the  Jew's  from  the  city, 
except  on  the  anniversary  of  its  capture,  when  they 
w'ere  allowed  to  enter  the  city  and  weep  over  it.  Their 
appointed  wailing-place  remains,  and  their  practice  of 
wailing  there  continues  to  the  present  day.  From  St. 


The  Jews  “ Wailiug-Place,"  in  the  western  wall  of  the 
9 Uaram  inclosnre. 


James,  the  first  bishop,  to  Jude  IT,  who  died  A.D.  136, 
there  had  been  a scries  of  fifteen  bishops  of  Jewish  de- 
scent ; and  from  Marcus,  who  succeeded  Simeon,  to  Ma- 
carius, who  presided  over  the  Church  of  Jerusalem  un- 
der Constantine,  there  w'as  a series  of  twenty-three  bish- 
ops of  Gentile  descent,  but,  beyond  a bare’  list  of  their 
names,  little  is  known  of  the  Church  or  of  the  city  of 
Jerusalem  during  the  whole  of  this  latter  period. 

In  the  centuries  ensuing  the  conversion  of  Constan- 
tine, the  roads  to  Zion  were  thronged  with  pilgrims 
from  all  parts  of  Christendom,  and  the  land  abounded  in 
monasteries,  occupied  by  persons  who  wished  to  lead  a 
religions  life  amid  the  scenes  which  had  been  sanctified 
by  the  Saviour's  presence.  After  much  struggle  of  con- 
tiicting  dignities,  Jerusalem  was,  in  A.D.  451,  declared  a 
patriarchate  by  the  Council  of  Chalcedon.  See  Patri- 
archate of  Jerusalem.  In  the  theological  contro- 
versies wdiich  followed  the  decision  of  that  council  w’ith 
regard  to  the  two  natures  of  Christ,  Jerusalem  bore  its 
share  with  other  Oriental  churches,  and  tw’o  of  its  bish- 
ops w'ere  deposed  by  Monophysitc  fanatics.  The  Synod 
of  Jerusalem  in  A.D.  53G  confirmed  the  decree  of  the 


Synod  of  Constantinople  against  the  MonophVsites.  See 
Jerusalem,  Councils  of.  In  the  same  century  it  found 
a second  Constantine  in  Justinian,  who  ascended  the 
throne  A.D.  527.  He  repaired  and  enriched  the  former 
structures,  and  built  upon  Mount  Moriah  a magnificent 
church  to  the  Virgin,  as  a memorial  of  the  persecution 
of  Jesus  in  the  Temple.  He  also  founded  ten  or  eleven 
convents  in  and  about  Jerusalem  and  Jericho,  and  estab- 
lished a hospital  for  pilgrims  in  each  of  those  cities. 

In  the  following  century,  the  Persians,  who  had  long 
harassed  the  empire  of  the  East,  penetrated  into  Syria, 
and  in  A.D.  G14,  under  Chosroes  II,  after  defeating  the 
forces  of  the  emperor  Ileraclius,  took  Jerusalem  by 
storm.  Many  thousands  of  the.  inhabitants  were  slain, 
and  much  of  the  city,  including  the  finest  churches — 
that  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre  among  them — wras  destroy- 
ed. When  the  conquerors  withdrew  they  took  away 
the  principal  inhabitants,  the  patriarch,  and  the  true 
cross;  but  when,  the  year  after,  peace  -was  concluded, 
these  were  restored,  and  the  emperor  Heraclius  entered 
Jerusalem  in  solemn  state,  bearing  the  cross  upon  his 
shoulders. 

The  damage  occasioned  by  the  Persians  w\as  speedily 
repaired.  But  Arabia  soon  furnished  a more  formida- 
ble enemy  in  the  klialif  Omar,  whose  troops  appeared 
before  the  city  in  A.D.  G36,  Arabia,  Syria,  and  Egypt 
having  already  been  brought  under  the  Moslem  yoke. 
After  a long  siege  the  austere  klialif  himself  came  to 
the  camp,  and  the  city  w’as  at  length  surrendered  to  him 
in  A.D.  637.  The  conqueror  of  mighty  kings  entered 
the  holy  city  in  llis  garment  of  camel’s  hair,  and  con- 
ducted himself  with  much  discretion  and  generous  for- 
bearance. By  his  orders  the  magnificent  mosque  which 
still  bears  his  name  w'as  built  upon  Mount  Moriah,  upon 
the  site  of  the  Jew'ish  Temple. 

8.  Jerusalem  remained  in  possession  of  the  Arabians, 
and  was  occasionally  visited  by  Christian  pilgrims  from 
Europe  till  towards  the  year  1000,  when  a general  belief 
that  the  second  coming  of  the  Saviour  was  near  at  hand 
drew'  pilgrims  in  unwonted  crow'ds  to  the  Holy  Land, 
and  created  an  impulse  for  pilgrimages  thither  which 
ceased  not  to  act  after  the  first  exciting  cause  had  been 
forgotten.  The  Moslem  government,  in  order  to  derive 
some  profit  from  this  enthusiasm,  imposed  the  tribute 
of  a piece  of  gold  as  the  price  of  entrance  into  the  holy 
city.  The  sight,  by  such  large  numbers,  of  the  holy 
place  in  the  hands  of  infidels,  the  exaction  of  tribute, 
and  the  insults  to  which  the  pilgrims,  often  of  the  high- 
est rank,  were  exposed  from  the  Moslem  rabble,  excited 
an  extraordinary  ferment  in  Europe,  and  led  to  those 
remarkable  expeditions  for  recovering  the  Holy  Sepul- 
chre from  the  Mohammedans  which,  under  the  name  of 
the  Crusades,  will  al\va3’s  fill  a most  important  and  cu- 
rious chapter  in  the  history  of  the  world.  (See  Gib- 
bon’s History  of  the  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Em- 
pire.)  See  Crusades. 

The  dominion  over  Palestine  had  passed  in  A.D.  9G0 
from  the  khalifs  of  Bagdad  to  the  Fatimite  khalifs  of 
Egypt,  and  these  in  their  turn  were  dispossessed  in  A.D. 
1073  by  the  Turkomans,  w ho  had  usurped  the  powrers  of 
the  Eastern  khalifat.  The  severities  exercised  by  these 
more  fierce  and  uncivilized  Moslems  upon  both  the  na- 
tive Christians  and  the  European  pilgrims  supplied  the 
immediate  impulse  to  the  first  Eastern  expedition.  But 
by  the  time  the  Crusaders,  under  Godfrey  of  Bouillon, 
appeared  before  Jerusalem,  on  the  17th  of  June,  1099, 
the  Egyptian  khalifs  had  recovered  possession  of  Pales- 
tine, and  driven  the  Turkomans  beyond  the  Euphrates. 

After  a siege  of  forty  days,  the  holy  city  was  taken 
by  storm  on  the  15th  day  of  July,  and  a dreadful  mas- 
sacre of  the  Moslem  inhabitants  followed,  without  dis- 
tinction of  age  or  sex.  As  soon  as  order  w'as  restored, 
and  the  city  clearwl  of  the  dead,  a regular  government 
was  established  by  the  election  of  Godfrey  as  king  of 
Jerusalem.  One  of  the  first  cares  of  the  new  monarch 
was  to  dedicate  anew  to  the  Lord  the  place  where  his 
presence  had  once  abode,  and  the  Mosque  of  Omar  be- 


JERUSALEM 


843 


JERUSALEM 


B'-S 

© 

S-  5° 


| 

05 


c.- 

f0a 

II 


oTg  1-  1 


O-SH 


Syd* 

1 3 

© sjJ 

2 £"d 

II 


wg« 


II — 3 


>»=  s 

S = ; 


^.O  >>  " 

ll«s 


W-§| 


B-o-'-ga 

•°§g*a 

-'g 

o|.2$| 

C-.  T3  « iH  -g 
g a fctw 
,,  g02  D i» 

II  © C2'° 


^ II- 


II 

.6  © 

>>  © g 

I is 

o2S 
Z tr-§ 
©■»■-  , 


II — 3 


-c-3 
S g 


came  a Christian  cathedral,  which  the  historians  of  the 
time  distinguish  as  “ the  Temple  of  the  Lord  (Trngum 
Domini).  The  Christians  kept  possession  of  Jerusalem 
eighty-eight  years.  Sec  below,  J krksai.em,  Kmui  ™ 
ok.  During  this  long  period  they  appear  to  ha' e er 
ed  several  churches  and  many  convents.  Of  the  latter, 
few,  if  an  v,  traces  remain;  and  of  the  former,  save  one 
or  two  ruins,  the  Church  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre,  which 
they  rebuilt,  is  the  only  memorial  that  attests  the  ex- 
istence of  the  Christian  kingdom  of, Jerusalem.  In  . . . 
1187  the  holy  city  was  wrested  from  the  hands » of  the 
Christians  by  the  sultan  Saladm,  and  the  cider ‘ |,f 
was  then  reversed.  The  cross  was  removed  u ith  igno- 
miny from  the  sacred  dome,  the  holy  places  were > = 
tied  from  Christian  stain  with  rose-water  brought  fro 
Damascus,  and  the  call  to  prayer  by  the  muezzin  once 


more  sounded  over  the  city.  From  that  time  to  the 
present  dav  the  holy  city  has  remained,  with  slight  m- 
1 temmtion,  in  the  hands  of  the  Moslems.  On  the  threat- 
ened siege  by  Diehard  of  England  in  1192,  Saladin  took 
great  pains  in  strengthening  its  defences.  New  walls 
and  bulwarks  were  erected,  and  deep  trenches  cut,  and 
in  six  months  the  town  was  stronger  than  it  ever  had 
been,  and  the  works  had  the  firmness  and  solidity  of  a 
rock.  But  in  A.D.  1219,  the  sultan  Melck  el-Moaddm 
of  Damascus,  who  then  had  possession  of  Jerusalem,  or- 
dered all  the  walls  and  towers  to  be  demolished,  except 
the  citadel  and  the  inclosurc  of  the  mosque,  lest  the 
Franks  should  again  become  masters  of  the  city  and 
find  it  a place  of  strength.  I11  this  defenceless  state  Je- 
rusalem continued  till  it  was  delivered  over  to  the  Chris- 
tians in  consequence  of  a treaty  with  the  emperor  1‘  recl- 
erick  II,  in  A.D.  1229,  with  the  understanding  that  the 
walls  should  not  be  rebuilt.  Yet  ten  years  later  (A.D. 
P239)  the  barons  and  knights  of  Jerusalem  began  to 
build  the  walls  anew,  and  to  erect  a strong  fortress  on 
the  west  of  the  city.  But  the  works  were  interrupted 
by  the  emir  David  of  Kerek,who  seized  the  city,  stran- 
gled the  Christian  inhabitants,  and  east  down  the  new- 
ly erected  walls  and  fortress.  Four  years  after,  howev- 
er (A.D.  1243),  Jerusalem  was  again  made  over  to  the 
Christians  without  any  restriction,  and  the  works  ap- 
pear to  have  been  restored  and  completed ; for  they  are 
mentioned  as  existing  when  the  city  was  stormed  by 
the  wild  Ivharismian  hordes  in  the  following  year,  short- 
ly after  which  the  city  reverted  for  the  last  time  into 
the  hands  of  its  Mohammedan  masters,  who  have  sub- 
stantially kept  it  to  the  present  day,  although  111  12/7 
Jerusalem  was  nominally  annexed  to  the  kingdom  ol 

Sicily.  , . . 

9.  From  this  time  Jerusalem  appears  to  have  suntc 
very  much  in  political  and  military  importance,  and  it 
is  scarcely  named  in  the  history  of  the  Mameluke  sul- 
tans who  reigned  over  Egypt  and  the  greater  part  of 
Syria  in  the  14tli  and  15th  centuries.  At,  length,  with 
the  rest  of  Syria  and  Egypt,  it  passed  under  the  sway 
of  the  Turkish  sultan  Selim  I in  1517,  who  paid  a hasty 
visit  to  the  holy  city  from  Damascus  after  his  return 
from  E^vpt.  From  that  time  Jerusalem  has  formed  a 
part  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  and  during  this  period  has 
been  subject  to  few  vicissitudes;  its  history  is  accord- 
ingly barren  of  incident.  The  present  walls  of  the  city 
were  erected  bv  Suleiman  the  Magnificent,  the  successor 
of  Selim,  in  A.D.  1542,  as  is  attested  by  an  inscription 
over  the  Jaffa  gate.  As  lately  as  A.D.  1808,  the  b tiurch 
of  the  Holy  Sepulchre  was  partially  consumed  by  tire; 
but  the  damage  was  repaired  wjtli  great  labor  and  ex- 
pense by  September,  1810,  and  the  traveller  now  finds 
in  this  imposing  fabric  no  traces  of  that  calamity. 

I11  A.D.  1832  Jerusalem  became  subject  to  Moham- 
med Ali,  the  pasha  of  Egypt,  the  holy  city  opening  its 
gates  to  him  without  a siege.  During  the  great  in- 
surrection in  the  districts  of  Jerusalem  and  Nablus  in 
1834  the  insurgents  seized  upon  Jerusalem,  and  held 
possession  of  it  for  a time;  but  by  the  vigorous  opera- 
tions of  the  government  order  was  soon  restored,  and 
the  city  reverted  quietly  to  its  allegiance  on  the  ap- 
proach of  Ibrahim  Pasha  with  his  troops.  In  1841  Mo- 
hammed Ali  was  deprived  of  all  his  Syrian  possessions 
bv  European  interference,  and  Jerusalem  was  again  sub- 
jected to  the  Turkish  government,  under  which  it  now 

remains.  , rf  a 

In  the  same  year  took  place  the  establishment  of  a 
Protestant  bishopric  at  Jerusalem  by  the  English  and 
Prussian  governments,  and  the  erection  upon  Mount 
Zion  of  a church  calculated  to  hold  500  persons,  for  the 
celebration  of  divine  worship  according  to  the  ritual  oi 
the  English  Church.  Sec  d erusalem,  See  of  (below  )• 
In  1850  a dispute  about  the  guardianship  of  the  holy 


111  loou  a inline  uuwui  j T 

places  between  the  monks  of  the  Greek  and  Latin 
churches,  in  which  Nicholas,  emperor  of  hussia,  sided 
with  the  Greeks,  and  Loins  Napoleon,  emperor  of  the 
French,  with  the  Latins,  led  to  a decision  of  the  question 


JERUSALEM 


844 


JERUSALEM 


bv  the  Porte,  which  was  unsatisfactory  to  Russia,  and  I Bessoie,  Storia  della  Basilica  diP.  Croce  in  Gems.  (Rome, 
which  resulted  in  a war  of  considerable  magnitude,  1750);  C.Cellarius,  De  yElia  Capitolina,  etc.,  in  his  Pro- 
known  as  “the  Crimean  War,”  between  that  country  on  | yrammata,  p.  441  sq. ; Poujoulat,  Ilistoire  de  Jerusalem 


the  one  side,  and  the  allied  forces  of  England  and  France 
on  the  other.  This  war  has  led  to  greater  liberties  of 
all  classes  of  citizens  in  the  enjoyment  of  their  religious 
faith,  and  to  a partial  adjustment  of  the  rival  claims  of 
the  Greek  and  Latin  monks  to  certain  portions  of  the 
holy  places;  it  has  also  resulted  in  much  more  freedom 
towards  Frank  travellers  in  visiting  the  city,  so  that 
even  ladies  have  been  allowed  to  enter  the  mosque  in- 
closure ; but  it  has  caused  uo  material  alteration  in  the 
city  or  in  its  political  relations. 

For  details,  see  Witsius,  Hist.  Uierosolymce , in  his  Mis- 
cell.  Sacr.  ii,  187  sq. ; Spalding,  Gesch.  d.  Christl.  K6- 
niysreichs  Jerusalem  (Berlin,  1803) ; Devling,  yhliai  Ca- 
pitolina Oriyy.et  Historia  (Lips.  1743);  Wagnitz,  Ueb. 
d.  Phiinomane  vor  d.  Zerstbruny  Jer.  (Halle,  1780) ; R. 


(Brux.  1842) ; F.  Miinter’s  treatise  on  the  Jewish  1 Vai 
under  Hadrian,  transl.  in  the  Biblioth.  Sacra  for  1843, 
p.  393  sq. ; Raumer’s  Paldstina  ; Robinson’s  Bib . lies, 
in  Palestine ; and  especially  Williams,  Holy  City,  vol.  i. 

II.  Ancient  Topoyraphy. — This  has  been  a subject  of 
no  little  dispute  among  antiquarian  geographers.  We 
prefer  here  briefly  to  state  our  own  independent  conclu- 
sions, with  the  authority  on  which  each  point  rests,  and 
we  shall  therefore  but  incidentally  notice  the  controver- 
sies, which  will  be  found  discussed  under  the  several 
heads  elsewhere  in  this  Cyclopaedia. 

1.  Natural  Features. — These,  of  course,  are  mostly 
the  same  in  all  ages,  as  the  surface  of  the  region  where 
Jerusalem  is  situated  is  generally  limestone  rock.  Yet 
the  wear  of  the  elements  has  no  doubt  caused  some 


Map  of  Ancient  Jerusalem. 


JERUSALEM 


845 


JERUSALEM 


minor  changes,  and  the  demolition  of  large  buildings 
successively  has  effected  very  considerable  differences 
of  level  by  the  accumulation  of  rubbish  in  the  hollows, 
and  even  on  some  of  the  hills;  while  in  some  cases  high 
spots  were  anciently  cut  away,  valleys  partially  filled, 
and  artificial  platforms  and  terraces  formed,  ami  in  oth- 
ers deep  trenches  or  massive  structures  have  left  their 
traces  to  this  day. 

(A.)  Hills. — (1.)  Mount  Zion,  frequently  mentioned  in 
the  Old  Testament,  only  once  in  the  New  (Uev.  xiv,  1), 
called  by  Josephus  “the  Upper  City”  (War,  v,  4,  l),was 
divided  by  a valley  (Tyropceon)  from  another  hill  oppo- 
site (Acra),  than  which  it  was  “higher,  and  in  length 
more  direct”  (ibid.).  It  is  almost  universally  assigned, 
in  modern  times,  as  the  south-western  hill  of  the  city. 
See  Ziox. 

(2.)  Mount  Moriah , mentioned  in  2 Chron.  iii,  1,  as 
the  site  of  the  Temple,  is  unmistakable  in  all  ages.  Orig- 
inally, according  to  Josephus  ( 1 Var,  y,  5, 1),  the  summit 
was  small,  and  the  platform  was  enlarged  by  Solomon, 
who  built  up  a high  stone  terrace  wall  on  three  sides 
(east,  south,  and  west),  leaving  a tremendous  precipice 
at  the  (south-eastern)  corner  (Ant.  xv,  11,  3 and  5). 
Some  of  the  lower  courses  of  these  stones  arc  still  stand- 
ing. See  Moriah. 

(3.)  The  hill  A era  is  so  called  by  Josephus,  who  says 
it  “ sustained  the  Lower  City,  and  was  of  the  shape  of  a 
moon  when  she  is  horned,”  or  a crescent  (War,  v,  4, 1). 
It  was  separated  from  another  hill  (Bezetha)  by  a broad 
valley,  which  the  Asmonaeans  partly  filled  up  with  earth 
taken  from  the  top  of  Acra,  so  that  it  might  be  made 
lower  than  the  Temple  (ibul.).  Concerning  the  posi- 
tion of  this  hill  there  is  much  dispute,  which  can  only 
be  settled  by  the  location  of  the  valleys  on  either  side 
of  it  (see  Caspari,  in  the  Stud,  und  Krit.  ii,  1864).  See 
Acra. 

(4.)  The  hill  Bezetha,  interpreted  by  Josephus  as 
meaning  “New  City,”  placed  by  him  opposite  Acra,  and 
stated  to  be  originally  lower  than  it,  is  said  by  him  also 
to  lie  over  against  the  tower  Antonia,  from  which  it  was 
separated  by  a deep  fosse  ( War,  v,  4,  1 and  2).  See 
Bezetha. 

(5.)  Ophel  is  referred  to  by  Nehemiah  (iii,  26,27),  as 
well  as  by  Josephus  (IF«r,  v,  4,  2),  in  such  connection 
with  the  walls  as  to  show  that  none  other  can  be  in- 
tended than  the  ridge  of  ground  sloping  to  a point 
southward  from  the  Temple  area.  See  Opiiel. 


(6.)  Calvary,  or  more  properly  Golgotha,  was  a small 
eminence,  mentioned  by  the  evangelists  as  the  place  of 
the  crucifixion.  Modern  tradition  assigns  it  to  the  site 
of  the  Church  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre,  but  this  is  greatly 
contested ; the  question  turns  chiefly  upon  the  course 
of  the  second  wall,  outside  of  which  the  crucifixion  un- 
doubtedly took  place  (John  xix,  17).  See  Calvary. 

(7.)  The  Mount  of  Olives  is  so  often  referred  to  by 
Josephus,  as  well  as  in  the  Bible,  that  it  can  be  taken 
for  no  other  than  that  which  now  passes  under  the  same 
name.  See  Olivet. 


(8.)  Scopus  is  the  name  assigned  by  Josephus  to  an 
elevated  plain  about  seven  furlongs  distant  from  the 
city  wall  in  a northerly  direction  (War,  ii,  19,  4;  v,  2, 
3),  an  interval  that  was  leveled  by  Titus  on  his  ap- 
proach from  Samaria  (ibid,  iii,  2).  By  this  can  there- 
fore be  meant  neither  the  rocky  prominences  on  the 
southern,  nor  those  on  the  northern  edge  of  that  part 
of  the  valley  of  Jchoshaphat  which  sweeps  around  the 
city  on  the  north,  for  the  former  are  too  near,  and  the 
latter  intercepted  by  the  valley ; but  rather  the  gentle 
slope  on  the  north-west  of  the  city. 

Besides  these,  there  is  mentioned  in  Jcr.  xxxi,  39, 
“ the  hill  Gareb,”  apparently  somewhere  on  the  north- 
west of  the  city,  and  Goatli,  possibly  an  eminence  on  the 
west.  “ Mount  Gihon,”  so  confidently  laid  down  on  cer- 
tain maps  of  the  ancient  city,  is  a modern  invention. 

(B.)  Valleys. — (I.)  The  principal  of  these  was  the  one 
termed  by  Josephus  that  of  the  Tyropeeon,  or  Cheese- 
makers,  running  between  Zion  and  Acra,  down  as  far  as 
Siloam  (War,  v,  4, 1).  The  southern  part  of  this  is  still 
clearly  to  be  traced,  although  much  choked  up  by  the 
accumulated  rubbish  of  ages;  but  as  to  the  northern 
part  there  is  considerable  discrepancy.  Some  (as  Ur. 


Section  of  the  Tyropoeon  Valley  and  Mt.  Moriah,  showing 
the  present  as  well  as  the  original  surface.  (From  Lt. 
Warren’s  Sketch,  Oct.  21,  iu  Tracings  of  the  “ Palestine 
Exploration  Fund.”) 

Bobinson)  make  it  bend  around  the  northern  brow  of 
Zion,  and  so  end  in  the  shallow  depression  between  that 
hill  and  the  eminence  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre ; while  oth- 
ers (Williams,  with  whose  views  in  this  particular  we 
coincide)  carry  it  directly  north,  through  the  depression 
along  the  western  side  of  the  mosque  area,  and  east- 
ward of  the  church,  in  the  direction  of  the  Damascus 
Gate.  See  Tyropceon. 

(2.)  The  only  other  considerable  valley  within  the 
city  was  that  above  referred  to  as  lying  between  Acra 
and  Bezetha.  The  language  of  Josephus,  in  the  pas- 
sage where  he  mentions  this  valley  (War,  v,  4, 1),  has 
been  understood  by  some  as  only  applicable  to  the  up- 
per portion  of  that  which  is  above  regarded  as  the  Ty- 
ropceon, because  he  calls  it  “ a broad  valley,”  and  this  is 
the  broadest  in  that  vicinity.  But  the  Jewish  historian 
only  says  that  the  hills  Acra  and  Bezetha  “ were  for- 
merly divided  by  a broad  valley;  but  in  those  times 
when  the  Asmonaeans  reigned,  they  filled  up  that  valley 
with  earth,  and  had  a mind  to  join  the  city  to  the  Tem- 
ple : they  then  took  off  a part  of  the  height  of  Acra, 
and  reduced  it  to  a less  elevation  than  it  was  before, 
that  the  Temple  might  be  superior  to  it.”  From  this  it 
is  clear  that  in  the  times  of  Josephus  this  valley  was 
not  so  distinct  as  formerly,  so  that  we  must  not  look  for 
it  in  the  plain  and  apparently  unchanged  depression 
west  of  the  Temple,  but  rather  in  the  choked  and  ob- 
scure one  running  northward  from  the  middle  of  the 
northern  side  of  the  present  mosque  inclosnre.  The 
union  of  the  city  and  Temple  across  this  valley  is  also 
more  explicable  on  this  ground,  because  it  not  only  im- 
plies a nearly  level  passage  effected  between  the  Temple 
area  and  that  part  of  the  city  there  intended — which  is 
true  only  on  the  northern  side,  but  it  also  intimates  that 
there  had  previously  been  no  special  passage-way  there — 
whereas  on  the  west  the  Temple  was  connected  with 
Zion  by  a bridge  or  causeway,  besides  at  least  two  other 
easy  avenues  to  the  parts  of  the  city  in  that  direction. 

(3.)  The  longest  and  deepest  of  the  valleys  outside 
the  walls  was  the  Valley  of  Jehoshuphat,  which  ran 
along  the  entire  eastern  and  north-eastern  side,  forming 
the  bed  of  the  brook  Kedron.  Ilespecting  the  identity 
of  this,  the  modern  name  leaves  no  room  for  dispute. 
See  Jeiioshaphat,  Valley  of. 

(4.)  On  the  south  side  ran  the  Valley  ben-Ilinnom  (i. 


846 


JERUSALEM 


JERUSALEM 


e.  “son  of  Ilinnom”),  corrupted  in  our  Saviour’s  time 
into  Gehenna,  and  anciently  styled  Tophet.  Of  this 
also  the  modern  name  is  still  the  same.  See  Gehenna. 

(5.)  On  the  west,  forming  the  northern  continuation 
of  the  last,  was  what  has  acquired  the  appellation  of  the 
Valley  of  Gihon , from  the  pools  of  that  name  situated 
in  it.  See  Gihon. 

(C.)  Streams . — Of  these  none  were  perennial,  but  only 
brooks  formed  by  the  winter  rains  that  collected  in  the 
valleys  and  ran  off  at  the  south-eastern  corner  towards 
the  Dead  Sea.  The  brook  Kedron  was  the  principal 
of  these,  and  is  mentioned  in  both  the  Old  and  New 
Testaments  (2  Sam.  xv,  23 ; John  xviii,  1),  and  by  Jo- 
sephus (IF «r,  v,  2, 3),  as  lying  between  the  city  and  the 
Mount  of  Olives.  See  Kedron. 

(D.)  Fountains.  — (1.)  En-rogel , first  mentioned  in 
Josh,  xv,  7, 8,  as  a point  in  the  boundary-line  of  Judah, 
on  the  south  side  of  the  hill  Zion.  It  is  generally  iden- 
tified with  the  deep  well  still  found  at  the  junction  of 
the  valleys  of  Hinnom  and  Jehoshaphat,  and  currently 
known  as  the  well  of  Joab  or  Nehemiah.  It  is  evidently 
the  same  as  that  called  by  Josephus  “the  fountain  in 
the  king's  garden”  (.!  nt.  vii,  11,  4).  Its  water  is  pecul- 
iar, but  no  underground  connection  has  been  traced  with 
any  other  of  the  fountains.  See  En-rogel. 

(2.)  Siloam  or  Shiloah  is  mentioned  in  the  Old  and 
New  Testaments,  as  well  as  by  Josephus,  and  the  last 
indicates  its  site  at  the  mouth  of  the  Valley  of  Tvropoe- 
on  (War,  v,  4,  1).  It  is  identical  with  the  modern 
fount  of  Selwan.  See  Siloam. 

(3.)  The  only  remaining  one  of  the  three  natural 
springs  about  Jerusalem  is  that  now  known  as  the  Foun- 
tain of  the  Virgin  (Um  ed-Deraj,  “ the  mother  of  steps”), 
above  the  Pool  of  Siloam.  It  is  intermittent,  the  over- 
flow apparently  of  the  Temple  supply;  and  it  is  con- 
nected by  a passage  through  the  rock  with  the  Pool  of 
Siloam  (Robinson,  Researches,  i,  502  sq.).  It  is  appar- 
ently the  same  with  the  “king’s  pool”  (Xeh.ii,  14 ; comp, 
iii,  10)  and  “Solomon’s  Pool”  (Josephus,  11 v,  4,  2). 
This  we  are  inclined  (with  Lightfoot  and  Robinson)  to 
identify  with  the  11  Pool  of  Bethesda"  in  John  v,  2.  See 
Bethesda. 

There  are  several  other  wells  adjoining  the  Temple 
area  which  have  the  peculiar  taste  of  Siloam,  but  wheth- 
er they  proceed  from  a living  spring  under  Moriah,  or 
are  conducted  thither  by  the  aqueduct  from  Bethlehem, 
or  come  from  some  distant  source,  future  explorations 
can  alone  determine.  Some  such  well  has,  however, 
lately  been  discovered,  but  how  far  it  supplies  these  va- 
rious fountains  has  not  yet  been  fully  determined  (Jour. 
Sac.  Lit.  April,  1864).  See  Solomon’s  Pool. 

(E.)  Reservoirs,  Tanks,  etc. — (l.)  The  Upper  Fool  of 
Gihon,  mentioned  in  Isa.  vii,  3;  2 Chron.  xxxii,  30,  etc., 
can  be  no  other  than  that  now  found  in  the  northern 
part  of  the  valley  at  the  west  of  the  city.  This  is  prob- 
ably what  is  called  the  “ Dragon  Well ” bv  Nehemiah 
(ii,  13),  lying  in  that  direction.  Josephus  also  inciden- 
tally mentions  a “ Serpent's  Pool ” as  lying  on  the  north- 
western side  of  the  city  (H«r,  v,  3,  2),  which  the  simi- 
larity of  name  and  position  seems  to  identify  with  this. 
See  Giiion. 

(2.)  The  Lower  Pool  (of  Gihoti),  referred  to  in  Isa. 
xxii,  0,  is  also  probably  that  situated  in  the  southern 
part  of  the  same  valley.  Sec  Pool. 

(3.)  There  still  exists  on  the  western  side  of  the  city 
another  pool,  which  is  frequently  termed  the  Pool  of 
Ilezekiah,  on  the  supposition  that  it  is  the  one  intended 
to  hold  the  water  which  that  king  is  said  (2  Kings  xx, 
20;  2 Chron.  xxii,  30)  to  have  brought  down  to  the  city 
by  a conduit  from  the  upper  pool.  It  is  to  this  day  so 
connected  by  an  aqueduct,  which  renders  the  identifica- 
tion probable.  But  it  does  not  follow  (as  some  argue) 
that  this  pool  was  within  the  second  wall  in  the  time 
of  Christ,  if,  indeed,  it  ever  lay  strictly  within  the  city ; 
the  statements  above  referred  to  only  show  that  it.  was 
designed  as  a reservoir  for  supplying  the  inhabitants, 
especially  on  Mount  Zion,  within  the  bounds  of  which 


it  could  never  have  been  embraced.  This  pool  is  per- 
haps also  the  same  as  one  mentioned  by  Josephus,  under 
the  title  of  Amggdalon,  as  opposite  the  third  of  the 
“ banks”  raised  by  Titus  ( War,  v,  11,  4).  He  there  lo- 
cates it  “a  great  way  off”  from  Antonia,  yet  “on  the 
north  quarter”  of  the  city;  and  a more  suitable  place 
for  an  assault  could  not  have  been  selected,  as  it  was  in 
the  corner  where  the  three  walls  joined,  being  evidently 
within  the  outer  one,  and  in  front  of  the  inner  one  (yet 
to  be  taken),  but  not  necessarily  within  the  middle  wall 
(which  had  been  taken  and  demolished).  See  IIeze- 
kiaii’s  Pool. 

(4.)  Josephus  also  mentions  a deep  trench  which  was 
dug  on  the  north  of  the  tower  Antonia  for  its  defence 
(llV,  v,  4,  2).  The  western  part  of  this  seems  to  have 
been  filled  up  during  the  siege,  in  order  to  prepare  a 
way  for  the  approach  of  the  Homan  engines  first  to  the 
tower  and  afterwards  to  the  Temple  wall  (Wur,  v,  11, 
4 ; vii,  2,  7).  The  eastern  portion  still  exists,  and  ap- 
pears to  have  been  wider  and  deeper  than  elsewhere 
(being  uninclosed  by  the  wall),  forming,  indeed,  quite  a 
receptacle  for  rain-water.  This  pit  we  are  inclined  to 
identify  with  the  pool  Struthius,  which  Josephus  locates 
at  this  spot  ( War,  v,  11,  4).  In  modern  times  it  has 
often  been  assigned  as  the  site  of  the  Pool  of  Bethesda, 
but  this  can  hardly  be  correct.  What  is  now  known  as 
the  pool  of  Bethesda  is  perhaps  a reservoir  built  in  the 
pit  from  which  Herod  quarried  the  stone  for  reconstruct- 
ing the  Temple. 

(5.)  Of  aqueducts,  besides  the  two  already  mentioned 
as  supplying  respectively  the  pools  of  Siloam  and  Heze- 
kiah,  there  still  exists  a long  subterranean  conduit  that 
brings  water  from  the  pools  of  Bethlehem  (attributed  to 
Solomon);  which,  passing  along  the  south-western  side 
of  the  Valley  of  1 1 innom,  then  crossing  it  above  the  low- 
er pool,  and  winding  around  the  northern  brow  of  Zion, 
at  last  supplies  one  or  more  wells  in  the  western  side  of 
the  mosque  inclosure.  This  is  undoubtedly  an  ancient 
work,  and  can  be  no  other  than  the  aqueduct  which  the 
Talmud  speaks  of  (as  we  shall  see)  as  furnishing  the 
Temple  with  an  abundance  of  water.  It  was  probably 
reconstructed  by  Pilate,  as  Josephus  speaks  of  “aque- 
ducts whereby  he  brought  water  from  the  distance  of 
400  [other  editions  read  300,  and  even  200]  furlongs” 
(JPg/-,  ii,  9,  4).  (See  below,  water  supply  of  modern 
Jerusalem.) 

2.  Respecting  the  ancient  walls , with  their  gates  and 
toicers,  our  principal  authority  must  be  the  description 
of  ancient  Jerusalem  furnished  by  Josephus  (lFor,  v,  4, 
2),  to  which  allusion  has  so  often  been  made.  The  only 
other  account  of  any  considerable  fulness  is  contained  in 
Nehemiah’s  statement  of  the  portions  repaired  under  his 
superintendence  (eh.  iii).  Besides  these,  and  some  in- 
cidental notices  scattered  in  other  parts  of  these  authors 
and  in  the  Bible  generally,  there  are  left  us  a few  ruins 
in  particular  places,  which  we  may  combine  with  the 
natural  points  determined  above  in  making  out  the  cir- 
cuit and  fortifications  of  the  city.  (See  below,  fortifica- 
tions of  the  city.) 

(F.)  The  First  or  Old  Wall. — Josephus’s  account  of 
this  is  as  follows:  “Beginning  on  the  north  from  the 
tower  Hippicus  (so  called),  and  extending  to  the  Xystus 
(so  called),  thence  touching  the  council-[house],  it  join- 
ed the  western  cloister  of  the  Temple;  but  in  the  other 
direction,  on  the  west,  beginning  from  the  same  tower, 
and  extending  through  tiie  place  Bethso  (so  called)  to 
the  gate  of  the  Essenes,  and  thence  on  the  south  turn- 
ing above  the  fountain  Siloam,  and  thence  again  bend- 
ing on  the  east  to  the  Pool  of  Solomon,  and  reaching  as 
far  as  a certain  place  which  they  call  Ophla,  it  joined 
the  eastward  cloister  of  the  Temple.”  It  was  defended 
by  sixty  towers  (ibid.  § 3),  probably  at  equal  distances, 
and  of  the  same  average  dimensions  (but  probably  some- 
what smaller  than  those  of  the  outer  wall),  exclusive 
of  the  three  towers  specially  described. 

(1.)  On  the  north  side  it  began  at  the  Tower  of  Ilip- 
jncus.  This  has  been  with  great  probability  identified 


JERUSALEM 


847 


JERUSALEM 


with  the  site  of  the  present  citadel  or  Castle  of  David, 
at  the  north-western  corner  of  Zion.  This  tower  is 
stated  by  Josephus  to  have  been  25  cubits  (about  45 
feet  square),  and  solid  to  the  height  of  30  cubits  (llr«/:, 
v,  4,  3).  At  the  north-western  corner  of  the  modern 
citadel  is  a tower  45  feet  square,  cut  on  three  sides  to  a 
great  height  out  of  the  solid  rock,  which  (with  Mr. Wil- 
liams) we  think  can  be  no  other  than  Ilippicus.  This 
is  probably  the  tower  at  the  Valley  Gate  mentioned  in  2 
Chron.  xxvi,  9.  See  IIipimcus. 

(2.)  Not  far  from  Ilippicus,  oti  the  same  wall,  Josephus 
places  the  Tower  of  Phasaelus , with  a solid  base  of  40 
cubits  (about  73  feet)  square  as  well  as  high  (ibid.).  To 
this  the  tower  on  the  north-eastern  corner  of  the  modern 
citadel  so  nearly  corresponds  (its  length  being  70  feet, 
and  its  breadth  now  shortened  to  50  feet,  the  rest  hav- 
ing probably  been  masonry),  that  they  cannot  well  be 
regarded  as  other  than  identical. 

(3.)  Not  far  from  this  again,  Josephus  locates  the 
Tower  of  Manamne,  20  cubits  (about  36  feet)  square 
and  high  (ibid.).  This  we  incline  (with  3Ir.  Williams) 
to  place  about  the  same  distance  east  of  Phasaelus. 

(4.)  The  Gate  Gennath  (i.  e.  “ garden”),  distinctly  stated 
by  Josephus  as  belonging  to  the  first  wall  (lUur,  v,  4,  2), 
apparently  not  far  east  of  Mariamne.  The  arch  now 
known  by  this  name,  near  the  south  end  of  the  bazaars, 
evidently  is  comparatively  recent.  See  Gennath. 


Modern  “Gate  of  Gennath,”  explored  by  Lieutenant  War- 
ren in  his  excavations  at  Jerusalem.  ‘(From  Tracing  of 
Feb.  1, 1S67,  of  the  “Palestine  Exploration  Fund.”) 


(5.)  There  is  another  “ obscure  gate”  referred  to  bv 
Josephus,  as  lying  near  Ilippicus,  through  which  the 
Jews  made  a sally  upon  the  Romans  ( lUur,  v,  0;  vi,  5). 
This  could  not  have  been  on  the  north  side,  owing  to 
the  precipice.  It  must  be  the  same  as  that  through 
which  he  says  elsewhere  (ibid,  vi i.  3)  water  was  brought 
to  the  tower  Ilippicus,  evidently  from  the  Upper  and 
Lower  I’ools,  or  from  Siloam.  It  can  therefore  only  be 
located  just  south  of  Ilippicus.  It  appears  to  be  iden- 
tical with  that  mentioned  in  the  Old  Testament  as  the 
Valley  Gate  (Neh.  iii,  13;  compare  2 Chron.  xxvi,  9; 
xxiii,  14). 

(0.)  On  the  southern  side  of  this  wall  we  next  come 
(omitting  “ Bethso”  for  the  present)  to  Josephus’s  “Gate 
of  the  Fssenes."  This  we  should  naturally  expect  to 
find  opposite  the  modern  Zion  Gate;  but.  as  the  ancient 
city  took  in  more  of  this  hill  than  the  modern  (for  the 
Tomb  of  David  is  now  outside),  we  must  look  for  it 
along  the  brow  of  Zion  at  the  south-west  corner.  Here, 
accordingly,  the  Dung-gate  is  mentioned  in  Neh.  ii,  13, 
and  iii,  13,  as  lying  next  to  the  Vallev-gate ; and  in  this 
latter  passage  it  is  placed  at  1000  cubits  (1320  feet)  from 
it — the  accordance  of  the  modem  distance  with  which 
may  be  considered  as  a strong  verification  of  the  cor- 
rectness of  the  position  of  both  these  gates.  The  Dung- 
gate  is  also  referred  to  in  Neh.xii,  31,  as  the  first  (after 


the  Valley-gate,  out  of  which  the  company  appear  to 
have  emerged)  toward  the  right  (i.  e.  south)  from  the 
north-west  corner  of  the  city  (i.  e.  facing  the  wall  on  the 
outside). 

From  this  point,  the  escarpments  still  found  in  the 
rock  indicate  the  line  of  the  wall  as  passing  along  the 
southern  brow  of  Zion,  as  Josephus  evidently  means. 
Beyond  this,  he  says  it  passed  above  the  fountain  Si- 
loam,  as  indeed  the  turn  in  the  edge  of  Zion  here  re- 
quires. 

(7.)  At  this  south-east  corner  of  Zion  probably  stood 
the  Pottery-gate , mentioned  (Jer.  xix,  2,  where  it  is  mis- 
translated “east-gate”)  as  leading  into  the  ATalley  of 
Ilinnom;  and  it  apparently  derived  its  name  from  the 
“ Potter’s  Field,”  lying  opposite.  See  Potteu’s  Field. 

Beyond  this,  it  becomes  more  difficult  to  trace  the 
line  indicated  by  Josephus.  1 1 is  language  plainly  im- 
plies that  in  skirting  the  southern  brow  of  Zion  it  curved 
sufficiently  to  exclude  the  Pool  of  Siloam,  although  it 
has  been  strongly  contended  by  some  that  this  fountain 
must  have  been  within  the  city. 

(3.)  At  the  month  of  theTyropoeon  we  should  natu- 
rally look  for  a gate,  and  accordingly  we  find  mention  of 
a Fountain-gate  along  the  A'alley  of  Ilinnom  beyond  the 
Dung-gate  (Neh.  ii,  14;  xii,  37),  and  adjoining  the  Pool 
of  Siloali  (Neh.  iii,  15),  which  seems  to  fix  its  position 
with  great  certainty.  The  next  bend  beyond  Siloam 
would  naturally  be  at  the  termination  of  the  ridge  com- 
ing down  from  the  Temple.  From  this  point,  according 
to  Josephus,  it  curved  so  as  to  face  the  east,  and  extend- 
ed to  the  Fountain  of  the  ATirgin  (Solomon’s  Pool),  thus 
passing  along  the  verge  of  Ophel.  If  this  fountain  re- 
ally be  the  Pool  of  Bethesda,  we  must  locate  here 

(9.)  The  Sheep-gate,  which,  on  the  whole,  we  are  in- 
clined to  fix  in  this  vicinity  (Neh.  xii,  39;  iii,  1,32; 
John  v,  2). 

The  line  of  the  wall,  after  this,  according  to  Josephus, 
ran  more  definitely  upon  the  edge  of  Ophel  (thus  imply- 
ing a slight  bend  to  the  east),  and  continued  along  it 
till  it  reached  the  Temple.  AVe  are  not  compelled,  by 
his  language,  to  carry  it  out  to  the  extreme  south-east- 
ern corner  of  the  Temple  area,  because  of  the  deep  prec- 
ipice which  lay  there  (.1  nt.  xv,  II,  4).  Just  so.  the 
modern  wall  comes  up  nearly  in  the  middle  of  the  south 
side  of  this  area.  The  ancient  point  of  intersection  has 
been  discovered  by  the  recent  excavations  of  the  Eng- 
lish engineers.  (See  the  sketch  of  Ophel  above.) 

From  this  account  of  the  first  wall,  we  should  natu- 
rally conclude  that  Josephus’s  Upper  City  included  the 
Tyropocon  as  well  as  Ophel ; but  from  other  passages  it 
is  certain  that  Zion  had  a separate  wall  of  its  own  on 
its  eastern  brow,  and  that  Josephus  here  only  means 
to  speak  of  the  outer  wall  around  the  west,  south,  and 
east.  Thus  lie  states  ( War,  vi,  7,  2)  that,  after  the  de- 
struction of  the  Temple,  the  Romans,  having  seized  and 
burned  the  whole  Lower  City  as  far  as  Siloam,  were  still 
compelled  to  make  special  efforts  to  dislodge  the  Jews 
from  the  Upper  City;  and  from  his  account  of  the  banks 
raised  for  this  purpose  between  the  Xystus  and  the 
bridge  (ibid.  3, 1),  it  is  even  clear  that  this  wall  extend- 
ed around  the  north-eastern  brow  of  Zion  quite  to  the 
north  part  of  the  old  wall,  leaving  a space  between  the 
Upper  City  and  the  Temple,  lie  also  speaks  (ibid.  6, 
2)  of  the  bridge  as  parting  the  tyrants  in  the  Upper  ( ’ity 
from  Titus  in  the  western  cloister  of  the  Temple.  This 
part  of  the  Tyropoeou  was  therefore  inclosed  by  barriers 
on  all  its  four  sides,  namely,  by  the  wall  on  the  west 
and  north,  by  the  Temple  on  the  east,  and  by  the  bridge 
on  the  south.  The  same  conclusion  of  a branch  from 
the  outer  wall,  running  up  the  western  side  of  the  Tyro- 
pceon,  results  from  a careful  inspection  of  the  account  of 
the  repairs  in  Neh.  iii.  The  historian  there  states  that 
adjoining  (“after  him")  the  part  repaired  around  the 
Fountain-gate  at  Siloah  (verse  15)  lay  a portion  ex- 
tending opposite  the  “ sepulchres  of  David”  (verse  16). 
By  these  can  only  be  meant  the  tomb  of  David,  still  ex- 
tant on  the  crown  of  Zion,  to  which  Peter  alludes  (Acts 


848 


JERUSALEM 


JERUSALEM 

ii,  29)  as  existing  in  his  day  within  the  city.  But  we 
cannot  suppose  Nehemiah  to  be  here  returning  along 
the  wall  in  a westerly  direction,  and  describing  repairs 
which  lie  had  just  attributed  to  others  (verses  14  and 
15) ; nor  can  he  be  speaking  of  the  wall  eastward  of  Si- 
loam,  which  would  in  no  sense  be  opposite  David’s  tomb, 
but  actually  intercepted  from  it  by  the  termination  of 
Ophel:  the  only  conclusion  therefore  is,  that  he  is  now 
proceeding  along  this  branch  wall  northward,  lying  op- 
posite David’s  tomb  on  the  east.  By  “the  pool  that 
was  made,”  mentioned  as  situated  here  (verse  10),  can- 
not therefore  be  meant  either  Siloam,  or  the  Lower  Pool, 
or  even  the  Virgin’s  Fountain,  but  some  tank  in  the  val- 
ley, since  filled  up,  probably  the  same  with  the  “ ditch 
made  between  the  two  walls  for  the  water  of  the  old 
pool”  (Isa.  xxii,  11),  which  might  easily  be  conducted 
(from  either  of  the  pools  of  Gihon)  to  this  spot,  along  the 
line  of  the  present  aqueduct  from  Bethlehem.  More- 
over, it  was  evidently  along  this  branch  wall  (“the  go- 
ing up  of  the  wall”)  that  one  party  of  the  priests  in 
Neh.  xii,  37  ascended  to  meet  the  other.  This  double 
line  of  wall  is  also  confirmed,  not  only  by  this  passage, 
but  likewise  by  the  escape  of  Zedekiah  “ by  the  way  of 
the  [Fountain-]  Gate  between  the  two  walls,  which  is 
by  the  king’s  garden”  (i.  e.  around  Siloam),  in  the  direc- 
tion of  the  plain  leading  to  Jericho  (2  Kings  xxv,  4,  5; 
Jer.  xxix,  4 ; lii,  7).  From  2 Chron.  xxvii,  3 ; and  xxiii, 
14,  it  is  also  evident  that  Ophel  was  inclosed  by  a sep- 
arate wall.  We  will  now  endeavor  to  trace  this  branch 
wall  around  to  the  Temple  and  to  the  gate  Gennath  as 
definitely  as  the  intricate  account  in  Nehemiah,  togeth- 
er with  other  scattered  notices,  will  allow. 

We  may  take  it  for  granted  that  this  part  of  the  wall 
would  leave  the  other  at  the  south-eastern  corner  of 
Zion,  near  the  Pottery-gate,  where  the  hill  is  steep,  and 
keep  along  the  declivity  throughout  its  whole  extent, 
for  the  sake  of  more  perfect  defence.  There  were  stairs 
in  this  wall  just  above  the  wall  that  continued  to  the 
Fountain-gate  (Neh.  xii,  37;  iii,  15),  which  imply  at 
least  a small  gate  there,  as  they  led  into  the  Upper  City. 
They  would  naturally  be  placed  within  the  outer  wall 
for  the  sake  of  security,  and  at  the  eastern  side  of  this 
corner  of  Zion,  where  the  rock  is  still  precipitous  (al- 
though the  stairs  have  disappeared),  so  that  they  afford 
additional  confirmation  to  the  wall  in  question. 

(10.)  Above  the  Sepulchre  of  David,  and  beyond  “ the 
pool  that  was  made,”  Neliemiah  (chap,  iii,  1G)  places 
“the  house  of  the  mighty,"  apparently  a Giants'  Tower, 
to  defend  the  wall.  Immediately  north  of  this  we  may 
conjecture  would  be  a gate , occurring  opposite  the  mod- 
ern Zion-gate,  and  over  against  the  ancient  Slieep-gate, 
although  the  steepness  of  the  hill  would  prevent  its  gen- 
eral use. 

Farther  north  is  apparently  mentioned  (Neh.  iii,  19) 
another  minor  entrance,  “ the  going  up  to  the  armory  at 
the  turning  of  the  wall,”  meaning  probably  the  bend  in 
the  brow  of  Zion  opposite  the  south-western  corner  of 
the  Temple,  near  where  the  bridge  connected  them. 

Farther  on,  another  “turning  of  the  wall,  even  unto 
the  corner,”  is  mentioned  (Neh.  iii,  24),  but  in  what  di- 
rection, and  how  far  off,  cannot  be  determined  with  any 
degree  of  certainty.  It  may  mean  the  junction  with 
the  wall  of  the  bridge. 

From  this  point  it  becomes  impossible  to  trace  the  or- 
der pursued  bj  Neliemiah  in  the  rest  of  the  third  chap- 
ter, as  he  does  not  describe  the  wall  from  point  to  point, 
but  mostly  refers  to  certain  objects  opposite  which  they 
lay,  and  frequently  omits  the  sign  of  continuity  (“after 
him”).  All  that  can  be  definitely  gathered  as  to  the 
consecutive  course  of  the  wall  is  that,  by  various  turns 
on  different  sides,  its  respective  parts  faced  certain  fixed 
points,  especially  “ the  tower  lying  out”  (verses  25,  26. 
27) ; that  it  contained  three  gates  (the  “ Water-gate,” 
verse  26;  the  “Horse-gate,”  verse  28;  and  the  gate 
“ Miphkad,”  verse  31) ; that  it  adjoined  Ophel  (verse  27) ; 
and  that  it  completed  the  circuit  of  walls  in  this  direc- 
tion (verse  32).  It  needs  but  a glance  to  see  that  all 


this  strikingly  agrees,  in  general,  with  the  above-men- 
tioned  inclosure  in  the  valley  of  the  Tyropoeon  just 
above  the  bridge,  which  certainly  embraced  all  the  ob- 
jects referred  to  by  Nehemiah,  as  we  shall  see ; and  this 
fact  of  the  quadrilateral  form  of  these  portions  of  the 
wall  will  best  account  for  the  apparent  confusion  of  this 
part  of  his  statement  (as  our  total  ignorance  of  many  of 
the  elements  of  elucidation  makes  it  now  seem),  as  well 
as  his  repeated  use  of  the  peculiar  mode  of  description, 
“over  against.”  Our  best  course  is  to  follow  the  pre- 
sumed line,  which  the  nature  of  the  ground  seems  to  re- 
quire, and  identify  the  points  as  they  occur,  trusting  to 
the  naturalness  with  which  they  may  fall  in  with  our 
scheme  for  its  vindication. 

After  leaving  the  bend  at  the  junction  with  the 
bridge,  we  should  therefore  indicate  the  course  of  the 
wall  as  following  the  natural  declivity  on  the  north-east 
edge  of  Zion  in  a gentle  curve,  till  it  joined  the  north- 
ern line  of  the  old  wall,  about  half  way  between  the 
gate  Gennath  and  the  Temple.  Indeed,  the  language 
of  Nehemiah  (xii,  37)  implies  that  “ the  going  up  of  the 
[branch]  wall”  extended  “above  the  house  of  David” 
(i.  e.  the  “king’s  house”),  and  thence  bent  “even  unto 
the  Water-gate  eastward.” 

(11.)  On  this  part  of  the  wall,  at  its  junction  with  the 
bridge,  we  think  must  be  placed  the  Horse-gate  (2  Kings 

xi,  16;  2 Chron.  xxiii,  15;  Neh.  iii,  28;  Jer.  xxxi,  38- 
40). 

(12.)  Not  far  to  the  north  of  this  must  be  placed  “ the 
Toicer  lying  out"  (Neh.  iii,  25,  26,  27). 

(13.)  On  the  north  side  of  the  space  included  by  the 
parts  of  this  -wall  we  place  the  Water-gate  (Neh.  iii,  26; 

xii,  37 ; comp. Neh.  viii,  1,3, 16);  probably  the  same  with 
the  Middle-gate  (Jer.  xxxix,  3;  compare  2,4,5). 

(14.)  The  only  remaining  gate  in  this  part  of  the 
walls  is  the  Prison-gate,  in  the  middle  of  the  bridge  op- 
posite the  Water-gate  (Neh.  xii,  30-40);  probably  the 
same  with  the  gate  Miphkad,  referred  to  by  Nehemiah 
as  lying  between  the  Horse-gate  and  the  Sheep-gate 
(chap,  iii,  28, 31,32),  an  identity  which  the  name  favors 
— being  literally  Gate  of  reviewing , perhaps  from  the 
census  being  taken  at  this  place  of  concourse,  or  (with 
the  Vulgate)  Gate  of  judgment,  from  its  proximity  to 
the  prison. 

(G.)  The  Second  or  Middle  Wall. — Josephus’s  state- 
ment of  the  course  of  this  wall  is  in  these  words:  “But 
the  second  [wall]  had  (first)  its  beginning  from  the 
gate  which  they  called  Gennath,  belonging  to  the  first 
wall,  and  then,  encircling  the  northern  slope  only,  went 
up  [or,  returned]  as  far  as  Antonia”  ( War,  v,  4,  2).  It 
had  forty  towers  (ibid.  3),  probably  of  the  same  general 
size  as  those  of  the  outer  wall.  If  we  have  correctly 
identified  Acra,  it  must  be  this  hill  that  Josephus  calls 
“the  northern  slope;”  and  the  direction  of  this  will  re- 
quire that  the  wall,  after  leaving  Gennath,  should  skirt 
the  lowest  edge  of  Golgotha  in  nearly  a straight  line 
till  it  reached  the  upper  end  of  the  Tyropoeon,  opposite 
the  western  edge  of  Acra.  This  direct  course  agrees 
with  the  absence  of  any  special  remark  in  Josephus  re- 
specting its  line  between  these  two  points.  Neither  is 
there  mention  of  any  gate  or  tower  along  it,  near  Gen- 
nath nor  opposite  Golgotha ; so  that, 

(1.)  The  first  point  of  note  in  this  direction  is  the 
Tower  of  Furnaces,  which  may  be  located  on  the  north- 
eastern slope  of  the  elevation  assumed  to  be  that  of  Gol- 
gotha (Neh.  iii,  8,  II,  13;  xii,  38;  comp.  2 Chron.  xxvi, 
9) ; and  (2.)  on  the  western  bank  of  this  entrance  of  the 
Tyropoeon  would  be  situated  the  Comer-gate  (compare 
Jer.  xxxi,  38). 

From  this  point  the  wall  would  rnn  directly  across 
the  broad  beginning  of  the  Tyropoeon,  to  meet  the  north- 
western brow  of  Acra,  which  Josephus  intimates  it  only 
served  to  include.  This  part  spanning  the  valley  must 
be  the  Broad  Wall , referred  to  in  Neh.  iii,  8;  xii,  38,  as 
lying  here.  A stronger  wall  would  be  needed  here,  as 
there  was  no  natural  breastwork  of  rock,  and  it  was  on 
this  side  that  invaders  always  approached  the  city.  Ac- 


JERUSALEM 


849 


JERUSALEM 


cordinglv,  this  strengthening  of  the  wall  in  this  part  by 
an  additional  thickness  was  first  effected  by  Alanasseh 
(2  Chron.  xxxiii,  ] 4) ; and  having  been  broken  down  in 
Hczekiah’s  time,  it  was  rebuilt  by  him  as  a defence 
against  the  Assyrians  (2  Chron.  xxxii,  5),  and  again 
broken  down  by  the  rival  Jehoash,  on  his  capture  of  the 
city  (2  Kings  xiv,  13). 

(3.)  On  the  eastern  slope  of  this  depression,  we  think, 
must  be  placed  the  Ephraint-gaie  (Nib.  iit,  38,  39;  2 
Kings  xiv,  13;  conip.Neh.viii,  Id),  corresponding  to  the 
modern  “ Damascus-gate,”  and  probably  identical  with 
the  1 ienjmnin-gate  (Jer.  xxxvii,  12,  13;  comp,  xxxviii, 
7 ; see  Zech.  xiv,  10),  but  different  from  the  “ High  gate 
of  Benjamin,  that  was  by-  the  house  of  the  Lord”  (Jer. 
xx,  2).  The  character  of  the  masonry  at  the  present 
Damascus-gate,  and  the  rooms  on  each  side  of  it,  inui- 
catf  this  as  one  of  the  ancient  entrances  (Kobinson, 
Researches,  i,  4(53, 464). 

From  this  point  the  wall  probably  ran  in  a circular 
north-east  course  along  the  northern  declivity  of  Acra, 
about  where  the  modern  wall  does,  until  it  reached, 

(4.)  The  Old-gate,  which  appears  to  have  stood  at  the 
north-east  corner  of  Acra  (Nell,  iii,  3,  0, 8 ; xii,  39) ; ap- 
parently the  same  as  the  First-gate  (Zech.  xiv,  10). 

Here,  we  conceive,  the  wall  took  a bend  to  the  south, 
following  the  steep  eastern  ridge  of  Acra;  for  Josephus 
states  that  it  “only  inclosed”  tins  hill,  and  then  joined 
the  tower  Antonia.  For  this  latter  reason,  also,  it  must 
have  passed  along  the  edge  of  the  valley  which  con- 
nects this  point  with  the  western  end  of  the  ptsctulo- 
Ilethesda  (evidently  the  valley  separating  Acra  and 
Bczetha) ; ami  this  will  give  one  horn  of  the  “ crescent- 
shape”  attributed  by  him  to  the  Upper  City,  including 
the  Temple  in  the  middle,  and  Ophel  as  the  other  horn. 
We  should  therefore  indicate  for  the  line  of  the  rest  of 
this  wall  a very  slight  outward  curve  from  near  Her- 
od’s Gate  to  about  the  middle  of  the  northern  side  of 
the  mosque  area. 

(5.)  The  only’  remaining  gate  expressly  referred  to  as 
lying  in  this  wall  is  the  Fish-gate,  which  stood  not  very’ 
far  from  the  junction  with  Antonia  (Neli.iii,  1,3,6;  xii, 
39;  comp.  2 Chron.  xxxiii,  14;  Zeph.  i,  10). 

(6.)  The  Tower  Antonia,  at  which  we  thus  arrive, 
was  situated  (according  to  Josephus,  lU«r,  v,  5, 8)  at  the 
comer  of  the  Temple  court  where  the  northern  and 
western  cloisters  met.  This  shows  that  it  did  not  cov- 
er the  whole  of  the  platform  north  of  the  Temple,  but 
only’  had  “courts  and  broad  spaces”  occupying  this  en- 
tire area,  with  a tower  at  each  of  the  four  corners  (ibid.). 
Of  these  latter  the  proper  Antonia  seems  to  have  been 
one,  and  theyr  were  all  doubtless  connected  byr  porticoes 
and  passages.  They’  were  all  on  a precipitous  rock,  fifty 
eubits  high,  the  proper  tower  Antonia  being  forty’  cubits 
above  this,  the  south-eastern  tower  seventy’,  and  the  oth- 
ers fifty  cubits  (ibid.).  It  was  originally’  built  by’  the 
Asmomean  princes  for  the  safe  keeping  of  the  high- 
priest’s  vestments,  and  called  by’  them  Baris  (ibid.,  A nt. 
xv,  11,  4).  It  was  “the  castle”  into  which  Paul  was 
taken  from  the  mob  (Acts  xxi,  34, 37).  See  Antonia. 

(7.)  That  one  of  these  four  towers  which  occupied 
the  north-east  corner  of  the  court  of  Antonia  we  are  in- 
clined to  identify’  with  the  ancient  Tower  of  Hananeel, 
between  the  tower  of  Mcah  and  the  Fish-gate  (Neh.  iii, 
1,3;  xii, 39),  and  at  the  most  north-eastern  point  of  the 
city’  (Jer.  xxxi,  38,  compared  with  Zcch.  xiv,  10). 

(8.)  The  south-east  one  of  these  towers,  again,  we 
take  to  be  the  ancient  Tower  of  Meah,  referred  to  in 
the  above  passages  of  Nehcmiah. 

Pierotti  has  found  a subterraneous  passage  extending 
from  the  Golden-gate  in  a north-westerly  direction  (Je- 
rusalem Explored,  i,  64).  He  could  not  trace  it  com- 
pletely; only’  in  two  unconnected  fragments,  one  130 
feet  long,  anil  another  1 50  feet.  This  may’  be  the  se- 
cret passage  ( Kpvrrri ) Cid>pri)  which  Herod  excavated 
from  Antonia  to  the  eastern  gate,  where  he  raised  a 
tower,  from  which  he  might  watch  any  seditions  move- 
ment of  the  people;  thus  establishing  a private  commu- 
IV.— II  H H 


I nication  with  Antonia,  through  which  he  might  pour 
soldiers  into  the  heart  of  the  Temple  area  as  need  re- 
quired (Josephus,  Ant.  xv,  11,7). 

This  will  make  out  the  circuit  of  the  general  tower 
of  Antonia,  the  proper  castle  standing  on  the  south-west 
corner,  and  thence  extending  a wing  to  reach  the  tower 
on  the  north-west  corner;  and  the  two  towers  on  the 
east  side  being  built  up  on  the  basis  of  the  ancient  ones. 
It  had  gates  doubtless  on  all  sides,  but,  besides  that  on 
the  south  (which  will  be  considered  under  the  Temple), 
there  is  distinct  evidence  of  none  except, 

(9.)  'flic  Golden-gate,  so  called  in  modern  times.  It 
is  a double-arched  passage  in  the  outer  wall  of  the  11a- 
ram,  now  closed  up,  but  evidently  a work  of  antiquity’, 
from  its  Homan  style  of  architecture,  which  would  nat- 
urally’ refer  it  to  this  time  of  Herod’s  enlargement  of 
Antonia.  Its  position,  as  we  shall  see,  is  such  as  to 
make  it  a convenient  entrance  to  this  inclosure.  See 
Fenced  City. 

The  eastern  wall  of  the  Temple  area,  which  evident- 
ly served  for  that  of  the  city,  and  connects  Josephus’s 
first  and  second  walls  on  this  part,  we  reserve  for  consid- 
eration under  the  head  Temple. 

(11.)  The  Third  or  Outer  Wall.  — This  was  not  yet 
j built  in  the  time  of  Christ,  having  been  begun  by  Her- 
od Agrippa  I about  A.D.  43.  Josephus’s  account  of  its 
course  is  in  the  following  words  (IFflr,  v,4,  2):  “The 
starting-point  of  the  third  [wall],  however,  was  the 
! tower  Hippicus,  whence  stretching  as  far  as  the  nortli- 
1 ern  slope  to  the  tower  Psephinos,  thence  reaching  op- 
I posite  the  monuments  of  Helena,  . . . and  prolonged 
through  [the]  royal  vaults,  it  bent  in  the  first  place  with 
, a corner  tower  to  the  (so-styled)  Fuller’s  monument, 
j and  then  joining  the  old  circuit  [i.  e.  the  former  wall], 
: ended  at  the  (so-called)  valley’  Kcilron.”  It  inclosed 
I that  part  of  the  town  called  Bczetha,  or  the  “ New  City’,” 
j and  was  (in  parts  at  least)  ten  cubits  thick  and  twenty- 
five  high  (ibid.).  It  was  defended  by  ninety’  towers 
twenty’  cubits  square  and  high,  two  hundred  cubits 
apart  (ibid.  3). 

(1.)  The  first  mark,  then,  after  leaving  Hippicus,  was 
! the  Tower  Psephinos,  described  (ibid.)  as  being  an  octa- 
I gon,  seventy’  cubits  high,  at  the  north-west  corner  of 
the  city,  opposite  Hippicus.  It  was  situated  quite  off 
the  direct  road  by  which  Titus  approached  the  city  from 
the  north  (ibid,  ii,  2),  and  lay  at  a bend  in  the  northern 
wall  at  its  western  limit  (ibid,  iii,  5).  All  these  partic- 
! tdars  agree  in  identifying  it  with  the  foundations  of 
i some  ancient  structure  still  clearly’  traceable  on  the 
j north-western  side  of  the  modern  city,  opposite  the  Up- 
per Pool.  Indeed,  the  ruins  scattered  along  the  whole 
distance  between  this  point  and  the  present  Jaffa-gate 
suffice  to  indicate  the  course  of  this  part  of  the  third 
wall  along  the  rocky’  edge  of  the  Valley  of  Gihon.  We 
therefore  locate  Psephinos  opposite  the  southernmost 
two  of  four  square  foundations  (apparently  the  towers  at 
intervals)  which  we  find  marked  on  Air.  Williams’s  Plan, 
and  indicating  a salient  point  in  the  wall  here,  which 
' is  traceable  on  either  side  by’  a line  of  old  foundations. 
These  we  take  to  be  remnants  of  that  part  of  this  outer 
wall  which  Josephus  says  was  begun  with  enormous 
! stones,  but  was  finished  in  an  inferior  manner  on  account 
1 of  the  emperor’s  jealousy’  ( 117/r,  nt  sup.).  Although  no 
gate  is  referred  to  along  this  part  of  the  wall,  yet  there 
probably  was  one  not  far  below  Psephinos,  where  the 
path  comes  down  at  the  north-west  corner  of  the  pres- 
ent city’  wall. 

(2.)  Between  the  tower  Psephinos  and  the  gate  lead- 
ing to  the  north-west  were  the  Womens  Towns,  where 
a sallying  party-  came  near  intercepting  Titus  (Joseph. 
117/2-,  v,  2 ; compare  3, 3).  They-  appear  to  have  issued 
from  the  gate  and  followed  him  to  the  towers. 

(3.)  Not  very-  fir  beyond  this,  therefore,  was  the  gate 
through  which  the  above  party-  emerged.  This  could 
have  been  none  other  than  one  along  the  present  public 
| road  in  this  direction,  a continuation  of  that  leading 
i through  the  Ephraim-gate  up  the  head  of  the  Tyrovoe- 


JERUSALEM 


850 


JERUSALEM 


Street  in  modern  Jerusalem. 


failed  to  be  one  at  the  notch  opposite  the  north-east  cor- 
ner of  the  present  city.  Below  this  spot  the  ancient  and 
modern  walls  would  coincide  in  position. 

3.  As  to  the  internal  subdivisions  of  the  city,  few  data 
remain  beyond  the  arrangement  necessarily  resulting 
from  the  position  of  the  hills  and  the  course  of  the  walls. 
Little  is  positively  known  respecting  the  streets  of  an- 
cient Jerusalem.  Josephus  says  (liar,  v,  4, 1)  that  the 
corresponding  rows  of  houses  on  Zion  and  Acra  termi- 
nated at  the  Tvropceon,  which  implies  that,  there  were 
streets  running  across  it.;  but  we  must  not  think  here 
of  wide  thoroughfares  like  those  of  our  cities,  but  of 
covered  alleys,  which  constitute  the  streets  of  Oriental 
cities,  and  this  is  the  general  character  of  those  ofmod- 
i ern  Jerusalem.  The  same  remark  will  apply  to  the 
“narrow  streets  leading  obliquely  to  the  [second]  wall” 
on  the  inside,  several  times  referred  to  in  the  account  of 
the  capture  of  the  city  (War,  v,  8, 1).  The  principal 
thoroughfares  must  be  gathered  from  the  position  of  the 
gates  and  the  nature  of  the  ground,  with  what  few  hints 
are  supplied  in  ancient  authors.  In  determining  their 
position,  the  course  of  the  modern  roads  or  paths  around 
the  city  is  of  great  assistance,  as  even  a mule-track  in 
the  East  is  remarkably'  permanent. 

We  must  not,  however,  in  this  connection,  fail  to  no- 
tice the  famous  bridge  mentioned  byr  Josephus  (.1  nt.  xiv, 
4, 2 ; War,  i,  7.  2 ; ii,  16,  3 ; vi,  6,  2 ; vi,  3,  1)  as  having 
anciently  connected  the  hill  Zion  with  the  Temple  near 
its  south-west  angle.  Dr.  Robinson  (who  was  in  Pal- 
estine in  1838,  and  published  his  book  in  1841)  claims 
to  have  discovered  this  {Researches,  i,  425  sq.)  in  tha 


on.  It  appears  that  the  gates  in  this  outer  wall  had  no 
specific  names. 

(4.)  The  language  of  Josephus  im- 
plies that  after  the  sweep  of  the  wall 
(in  its  general  northern  course)  at  the 
tower  Psephinos,  it  took,  on  the  whole, 
a pretty'  direct  line  till  it  passed  east 
of  the  Monuments  of  Helena.  It  should 
therefore  be  drawn  with  a slight  curve 
from  the  old  foundations  above  refer- 
red to  (north-east  of  Psephinos)  to  the 
base  of  a rocky  eminence  just  to  the 
north  of  the  present  north-west  road, 
upon  which,  we  think,  must  be  placed 
the  monuments  in  question  (Jose- 
phus, Ant.  xx, 4,3\ 

(5.)  The  next  point  referred  to  by 
Josephus  is  the  Royal  Vaults,  which 
have  been  with  most  probability  iden- 
tified with  the  ruins  still  found  on  the 
north  of  the  city  at  and  around  the 
“Tombs  of  the  Kings.” 

(6.)  Next  in  Josephus’s  description 
comes  the  Corner  Tower,  at  which 
the  wall  bent  in  a verv  marked  man-  Remains  of  Arch  of  Bridge  at  the  south-west  angle  of  the  Temple  Area. 

uer  (lienee  doubtless  the  name),  evidently  on  meeting  three  ranges  of  immense  stones  still  jutting  out  from 
the  Valley  of  Jehoshaphat.  the  Haram  wall  at  this  point;  whereas  Dr.  Olin  (who 

For  the  rest  of  the  way  the  wall  therefore  must  have  visited  Palestine  in  1840,  and  published  in  1843)  asserts 
followed  the  ridge  of  the  Valley  of  Jehoshaphat,  and  our  that  this  relic  had  hitherto  been  unmentioned  by'  any 


only'  task  is  to  identify  points  of  interest  along  it. 

(7,)  A little  to  the  east  of  this  corner  tower,  in  the  , 
retreating  angle  of  the  wall,  which  accommodates  a 
small  ravine  setting  up  southward  from  the  Valley  of 
Jehoshaphat,  we  locate  the  gate,  which  Titus  was  ap- 
proaching when  he  met  the  above-mentioned  sally'. 


traveller,  although  well  known  to  the  citizens  of  Jerusa- 
lem {Travels,  ii,  26).  The  controversy  which  arose  on 
the  subject  was  closed  by'  a letter  from  the  Rev.  H.  A. 
Homes,  of  Constantinople,  stating  that  the  existence 
and  probable  character  of  the  remains  in  question  were 
suggested  in  his  presence  to  Dr. Robinson  by  the  mis- 


(3.)  The  last  point  mentioned  by  Josephus  is  the  sionaries  then  resident  at  Jerusalem.  The  excavations 
/ idler's  Monument,  which  we  locate  on  the  eminence  not  of  the  English  engineers  on  the  spot  have  demonstrated 
very  far  east  of  the  above  gate,  and  it  would  thus  be  the  the  truth  of  the  identification  thus  proposed.  See  Tem- 
north-east  corner  of  the  outer  wall.  Amid  the  numer-  i>le. 

ous  sepulchral  caves,  however,  with  which  the  whole  Doubtless  Jerusalem  anciently,  like  all  other  eit- 
face  of  the  hill  is  perforated,  it  is  impossible  to  identify  ies,  had  definite  qutirters  or  districts  where  particular 
anv  one  in  particular.  classes  of  citizens  especially  resided,  but  there  was  not 

from  this  point  the  wall  naturally  returned  in  a dis-  the  same  difference  in  religion  which  constitute  such 
tinctly  southern  course,  along  the  edge  of  iie  valley',  marked  divisions  within  the  bounds  of  the  modern  city', 
until  it  joined  the  ramparts  of  the  court  of  Antonia,  at  It  is  clear,  however,  as  well  from  the  great  antiquity'  of 
the  tower  of  llananeel.  Although  there  is  no  allusion  . the  Upper  City’,  as  from  its  being  occupied  in  part  by 
to  any  gate  along  this  part,  yet  there  could  scarcely'  have  I palaces,  that  it  was  the  special  abode  of  the  nobility  (so 


JERUSALEM 


851 


JERUSALEM 


Recovery  of  the  Pier  of  the  ancient  Arch  across  the  Tyro- 
pceon  at  the  south-west  corner  of  the  Temple.  (From 
Lieutenant  Warren’s  Sketch,  August  2 2,  1SGS,  in  Tracings 
of  the  “Palestine  Exploration  Fund.”) 

to  speak),  including  perhaps  the  higher  order  of  the 
priesthood.  Ophcl  appears  (from  Neh.  iii,  20;  x,  21)  to 
have  been  the  general  residence  of  the  Levites  and  low- 
er officers  connected  with  the  Temple.  The  Lower  City, 
or  Acra,  would  therefore  constitute  the  chief  scat  of  busi- 
ness, and  consequently  of  tradesmen’s  and  mechanics’ 
residence,  while  Bczetha  would  be  inhabited  by  a mis- 
cellaneous population.  There  are,  besides  these  general 
sections,  but  three  particular  districts,  the  names  of 
which  have  come  down  to  us;  these  arc : 

(1.)  Bethso , which  is  named  by  Josephus  as  lying 
along  the  western  side  of  the  first  wall ; but  we  are  ig- 
norant of  its  extent  or  special  appropriation. 

(2.)  Millo  is  mentioned  in  several  places  in  the  Old 
Testament  (2  Sam.  v,  9;  1 Kings  ix,  15,  24;  xi,  27 ; 2 
Kings  xii,  20)  in  such  connections  as  to  imply  that  it 
was  the  name  of  some  tract  adjoining  Zion  in  the  inte- 
rior of  the  city,  and  we  have  therefore  ventured  to 
identify  it  with  the  space  so  singularly  inclosed  by  the 
walls  on  the  north  side  of  the  bridge.  See  Millo.  * 
(3.)  The  Suburbs  mentioned  by  Josephus  (.1  nl.  xv, 
1G,  5)  as  the  quarter  to  which  the  middle  two  of  the  four 
western  Temple-gates  led,  we  think,  must  he  not  simply 
Bczetha  in  general  (which  was  separated  from  the  Tem- 
ple by  the  intervening  Lower  City),  hut  rather  the  low 
ground  (naturally,  therefore,  indifferently  inhabited)  ly- 
ing immediately  north  of  Zion  ami  in  the.  upper  expan- 
sion of  the  Tyropoeon,  including  a tract  on  both  sides  of 
the  beginning  of  the  second  wall. 

4.  It  remains  to  indicate  the  location  of  other  public 


buildings  and  objects  of  note  connected  with  the  ancient 
city.  The  topography  of  the  Temple  will  be  consider- 
ed in  detail  under  that  article. 

(cl)  Within  the  Upper  City — Zion (1.)  Herod's  Pul- 

ace.  This,  Josephus  states  (ICccr,  v,  4,  4),  adjoined  the 
towers  Ilippicus,  etc.,  on  the  north  side  of  the  old  wall, 
being  “entirely  walled  about  to  the  height  of 30  cubits, 
with  towers  at  equal  distances.”  Its  precise  dimensions 
in  all  are  not  given,  hut  it  must  have  covered  a large 
area  with  its  “ in  numerable  rooms,”  its  “ many  porticoes’' 
and  “courts,”  with  “several  groves  of  trees,  amt  long 
walks  through  them,  with  deep  canals  and  cisterns.” 
Similar  descriptions  are  also  given  in  Ant.  xv,  9. 3;  lVar, 
i,  21, 1.  We  do  not  regard  it,  however,  as  identical  with 
the  dining-liull  built  by  Herod  Agrippa  on  Zion  (Ant. 
xx,  8, 11),  for  that  was  only  a wing  to  the  former  palace 
of  the  Asmonaxms  (apparently  a reconstruction  of  the 
ancient  “king’s  house”),  and  lay  nearer  the  Temple. 
(1  Vur,  ii,  16,3) — the  adjoining  “portico”  or  “gallery” 
mentioned  in  these  passages  being  probably  a covered 
portion  of  the  Xystus.  One  of  the  ground  apartments 
of  this  building  appears  to  have  been  the  procurator’s 
preetorium,  mentioned  in  the.  account  of  Christ’s  trial 
before  Pilate  (John  xviii,  28, 33;  xix,  9;  Mark  xv,  10), 
as  Josephus  informs  ns  (lU«r,  ii,  14,  8)  that  the  Roman 
governors  took  up  their  quarters  in  the  palace,  and  set 
up  their  tribunal  (compare  Matt.xxvii,  19)  in  front  (i.  c. 
at  the  eastern  entrance)  of  it  (namely,  on  the  “ Pave- 
ment" of  John  xix,  13). 

(2.)  There  is  no  reason  to  suppose  that  David's  Tomb 
occupied  any  other  position  than  that  now  shown  as  his 
burial-plaee  on  Mount  Zion.  It  was  within  the  pre- 
cincts of  the  old  city  (1  Kings  ii,  10);  Xehemiali  men- 
tions it  as  surviving  the  first  overthrow  of  the  city  (Neb. 
iii,  1G):  Peter  refers  to  it  as  extant  at  Jerusalem  in  his 
time  (Acts  ii,  29);  and  Josephus  alludes  to  it  as  a costly 
and  noble  vault  of  sepulture  (Ant.  xiii,  8,  4;  xvi,  7, 1). 
The  present  edifice,  however,  is  doubtless  a compara- 
tively modern  structure,  erected  over  the  site  of  the  an- 
cient monument,  now  buried  by  the  accumulated  rubbish 
of  ages. 

(3.)  The  A rmory  referred  to  in  Nth.  iii,  19,  has  al- 
ready been  located  at  the  bend  of  the  branch  wall  from 
a north-east  to  a north-west  direction,  a little  below  the 
bridge.  Its  place  was  probably  represented  in  our  Sav- 
iour’s time  by  an  improved  building  for  some  similar 
public  purpose. 

(4.)  The  King's  House , so  often  mentioned  in  the  Old 
Testament,  has  also  been  sufficiently  noticed  above,  and 
its  probable  identity  with  Herod  Agrippa’s  “dining-hall” 
pointed  out. 

(b.)  Within  the  Lower  City — Acra  and  Oph el. — (1.) 
Josephus  informs  us  (War,  vi,  6, 3)  that  “Queen  Hele- 
na's Palace -was  in  the  middle  of  Acra,”  apparently  upon 
the  summit  of  that  hill,  near  the  modem  site  of  the  tra- 
ditionary “palace  of  Herod.”  It  is  also  mentioned  as 
the  (north-east)  limit  of  Simon’s  occupancy  in  the  Low- 
er City  ( War,  v,  6',  1). 

(2.)  There  were  doubtless  Bazaars  in  ancient  as  in 
modem  Jerusalem,  hut  of  these  we  have  no  account  ex- 
cept in  two  or  three  instances.  Josephus  mentions  “a 
place  where  were  the  merchants  of  wool,  the  braziers, 
and  the  market  for  cloth, ’’  just  inside  the  second  wall, 
not  far  from  its  junction  with  the  first  (War,  v,  8, 1). 
It  would  also  seem  from  Neh.  viii,  1, 1(5,  that  there  was 
some  such  place  of  general  resort  at  the  head  of  the  Ty- 
ropfeon.  A “ baker’s  street”  or  row  of  shops  is  referred 
to  in  Jer.  xxxvii,  21,  hut  its  position  is  not  indicated,  al- 
though it  appears  to  have  been  in  some  central  part  of 
the  city.  See  also  Maktesil  Perhaps  bazaars  were 
stretched  along  the  low  tract  between  the  Ephraim-gate 
and  the  northern  brow  of  Zion. 

(3.)  The  Xystus  is  frequently  mentioned  by  Josephus 
as  a place  of  popular  assemblage  between  Zion  and  the 
Temple,  and  between  the  bridge  and  the  old  wall  (HT«r, 
v,  4,  2 ; vi,  3, 2 ; 6, 2 ; 8,  1).  We  have  therefore  thought 
that  it  would  scarcely  he  included  within  the  Upper 


JERUSALEM 


852 


JERUSALEM 


City,  the  abode  of  the  aristocracy,  where, 
moreover,  it  would  not  be  so  generally  ac- 
cessible. 

(4.)  The  Prison,  so  often  referred  to  in  the 
Old  Testament  (Neh.  iii,  24,  25;  Jer.  xxxii, 

2 ; xxxviii,  G),  must  have  been  situated  in 
the  north-west  corner  of  the.inclosure  which 
we  have  designated  as  “Millo,”  near  the 
“Prison -gate”  (Neh.  xii,  39),  and  Peter’s 
“ iron  gate”  (Acts  xii,  10).  See  Prison. 

(5.)  < >n  the  ridge  of  Ophel,  not  far  from 
the  “Fountain  of  the  Virgin,”  appears  to 
have  stood  the  Palace  of  Monobazus,  other- 
wise stvled  that  of  Grapte  (Josephus,  War, 
v,  6, 1 4,  2 ; iv,  9, 11;  vi,  7, 1). 

(G.)  Josephus  states  (.!»/.  xv,  8,1)  that 
Ilerod  “ built  a theatre  at  Jerusalem,  as  also 
a very  great  amphitheatre  in  the  plain;” 
but  this  notice  is  too  indefinite  to  enable  ns 
to  fix  the  site  of  these  buildings.  lie  also 
speaks  elsewhere  {Ant.  xvii,  10,  2)  of  a hip- 
podrome somewhere  near  the  Temple,  but 
whether  it  was  the  same  as  the  amphithea- 
tre is  impossible  to  determine;  the  purposes 
of  the  three  edifices,  however,  would  appear 
to  have  been  different. 

(c.)  Within  the  New  City — Bezetka. — (1.)  The  Mon- 
uments o/kiug  Alexander,  referred  to  by  Josephus  ( War, 
v,  7, 3)  were  on  the  south-west  edge  of  the  proper  hill 
liezetha,  nearly  opposite  the  Fish-gate,  as  the  circum- 
stances there  narrated  seem  to  require.  This  will  also 
agree  with  the  subsequent  erection  of  the  second  engine 
bv  the  Romans  (evidently  by  the  same  party  of  be- 
siegers operating  on  this  quarter,  “ a great  way  off”  from 
the  other),  which  was  reared  at  20  cubits’ distance  from  j 
the  pool  Struthius  {ibid,  xi,  4),  being  just  south  of  this 
monument. 

(2.)  The  Sepulchre  of  Christ  was  not  far  from  the 
place  of  the  Crucifixion  (John  xix,  42);  if,  therefore, 
the  modern  church  occupy  the  true  Calvary,  we  see  no 
good  reason  to  dispute  the  identity  of  the  site  of  the 
tomb  still  shown  in  the  middle  of  the  west  rotunda  of 
that  building.  See  Golgotiia. 

(3.)  The  Camp  of  the  Assyrians  was  on  the  north- 
west side  of  the  city  (Isa.  xxvi,  2;  2 Kings  xviii,  17), 
identical  with  the  site  of  Titus’s  second  camp  within  the 
outer  wall,  but  sufficiently  outside  the  second  wall  to  be 
beyond  the  reach  of  darts  from  it  (Josephus,  War,  v,  7, 

3 ; 12,  2 ),  so  that  we  can  well  refer  it  only  to  the  western 
part  of  the  general  swell  which  terminates  in  the  knoll 
of  Calvary. 

(4.)  The  Monument  o/the  high-priest  John  is  to  he  lo- 
cated near  the  bottom  of  the  north  edge  of  Zion,  a little 
east  of  the  tower  Mariamne  (Josephus,  War,  v,  11,  4;  G, 
2;  9.2;  7,3). 

(d.)  In  the  Environs  of  the  city.— (1.)  HeroeTs  Monu- 
ments we  incline  to  locate  on  the  brow  of  the  ridge  south 
of  the  “ upper  pool  of  Gihon”  (see  Josephus,  War,  v,  3, 
2;  12,2). 

(2.)  The  Village  of  the  Erebinthi  is  mentioned  by  Jo- 
sephus (ibid.)  as  lying  along  this  line  of  blockade  south 
of  Herod’s  Monuments,  and  therefore  probably  on  the 
western  edge  of  Gihon,  near  the  modern  hamlet  of  Abu- 
AVa’ir. 

(3.)  The  F idlers'  Field  we  take  to  be  the  broad  Valley 
of  Gihon,  especially  between  the  two  pools  of  that  name; 
lor  not  only  its  designation,  but  all  the  notices  respect- 
ing it  (Isa.  vii,  3;  xxxvi,  2;  2 Kings  xviii,  17),  indicate 
its  proximity  to  these  waters.  .See  Fullers’  Field. 

(4.)  Pompefs  Camp  is  placed  by  Josephus  ( War,  v, 
12. 2)  on  a mountain,  which  can  be  no  other  than  a low- 
er spur  of  the  modern  “Hill  of  Evil  Counsel.”  This 
must  have  been  that  general’s  preliminary  camp,  for, 
when  he  captured  the  city,  “he  pitched  his  camp  with- 
in [his  own  line  of  circumvallation,  the  outer  wall  being 
then  unbuilt],  on  the  north  side  of  the  Temple”  (.1  nt. 
xiv,  4, 2).  1 ' 


■Whites! ^ 

• Jerusalem  from  “ the  Well  of  Joab.” 

(5.)  There  is  no  good  ground  to  dispute  the  tradi- 
tionary site  of  Aceldama  or  the  Potter's  Field  (Matt, 
xxvii,  7,  8),  in  the  face  of  the  south  brow  of  the  Valley 
of  Ilinnom.  Sec  Aceldama. 

(G.)  The  Monument  of  A nanus  [i.e.  Annas  or  Hana- 
niah],  the  high-priest,  mentioned  by  Josephus  ( War,  v, 
12,  2),  must  have  been  just  above  the  site  of  Aceldama. 

(7.)  The  King's  Garden  (Neh.  iii,  15)  could  have  been 
no  other  than  the  well-watered  plot  of  ground  around 
the  well  of  En-Rogel,  where  were  also  the  king's  wine- 
presses  (Zecli.  xiv,  10). 

(8.)  The  rock  Peristereon  (literally  “pigeon-holes”), 
referred  to  by  him  in  the  same  connection,  has  been  not 
inaptly  identified  with  the  perforated  face  of  the  Valley 
of  Jelmshaphat  at  the  foot  of  the  Mount  of  Olives,  where 
modern  tradition  assigns  the  graves  of  Jehoshaphat,  Ab- 
salom, James,  and  Zechariah. 

(9.)  The  second  of  these  ruins  from  the  north  is  prob- 
ably the  veritable  Pillar  of  Absalom,  referred  to  in  the 
Scriptures  (2  Sam.  xviii,  18),  and  by  Josephus  as  if  ex- 
tant in  his  day  (“a  marble  pillar  in  the  king’s  dale  [the 
Valley  of  Jehoshaphat,  which  led  to  ‘the  king’s  gar- 
dens’], tico  furlongs  distant  from  Jerusalem”  (Ant.  xii, 
10, 3).  See  Absalom’s  Tomb. 

(10.)  The  last  and  most  interesting  spot  in  this  sur- 
vey is  the  garden  of  Gethsemane,  which  tradition  has  so 
consistently  located  that  nearly  every  traveller  has  ac- 
knowledged its  general  identity.  Respecting  its  size, 
however,  we  know  very  little ; but  we  are  unable  to  per- 
ceive the  propriety  of  supposing  a village  of  the  same 
name  to  have  been  located  near  it.  See  Gethsemane. 

(11.)  Finally,  we  may  briefly  recapitulate  the  differ- 
ent points  in  the  Romans’  wall  of  circumvallation,  dur- 
ing the  siege  by  Titus,  as  given  by  Josephus  (War,  v, 
12,  2),  at  the  same  time  indicating  their  identity  as 
above  determined : “ Titus  began  the  wall  from  the 
camp  of  the  Assyrians,  where  his  own  camp  was  pitch- 
ed [ i.e., near  the  north-west  angle  of  the  modern  city 
wall],  and  drew  it  [in  a north-east  curve]  down  to  the 
lower  parts  of  the  New  City  [following  the  general  di- 
rection of  the  present  north  wall]  ; thence  it  went  [south- 
easterly] along  [the  eastern  bank  of]  the  Valley  of  Ke- 
dron  to  the  Mount  of  Olives;  it  then  bent  [directly]  to- 
wards the  south,  and  encompassed  the  [western  slope  of 
that]  mountain  as  far  the  rock  Peristereon  [the  tombs 
of  Jehoshaphat,  etc.],  and  [of]  that  other  hill  [the  Mount 
of  Offence]  which  lies  next  it  [on  the  south  ], and  [which] 
is  over  [i.  e.  east  of]  the  Valley  [of  Jehoshaphat]  which 
reaches  to  Si  loam ; whence  it  bent  again  to  the  west,  and 
went  down  [the  hill]  to  the  Valley  of  the  Fountain  [the 
wady  En-Nar],  beyond  which  it  went  up  again  at  the 
mouument  of  Ananus  the  liigh-priest  [above  Aceldama], 


JERUSALEM 


853 


JERUSALEM 


and  encompassing  that  mountain  whore  Pompev  had 
formerly  pitched  his  camp  [the  extremity  of  t he  Hill  of 
Evil  Counsel],  it  returned  to  [i.  e.  towards]  the  north 
side  of  the  city,  and  was  carried  [along  the  south-west- 
ern bank  of  (iihon  Valley]  as  far  as  a certain  village 
called  the  house  of  the  Erebinthi  [at  Abu-Wa’ir]  ; after 
which  it  encompassed  [the  foot  of  the  eminence  on  which 
stood]  Herod’s  monument  [south  of  Upper  ( iihon],  and 
there  on  the  east  [end]  was  joined  to  Titus’s  own  camp, 
where  it  began.  Now  the  length  of  this  wall  was  forty 
furlongs  less  one.”  Along  the  line  thus  indicated  it 
would  be  precisely  this  length ; it  would  make  no  sharp 
turns  nor  devious  projections,  and  would  keep  on  com- 
manding eminences,  following  the  walls  at  a convenient 
distance  so  as  to  be  out  of  the  reach  of  missiles. 

For  a further  discussion  of  the  various  points  connect- 
ed with  the  ancient  topography  of  Jerusalem,  see  Yillal- 
pandi,  .1  ppuvutus  vrbis  Jlierosol.  in  pt.  3 of  Pradi  and 
Yillalp.  Explunat.  in  Ezech . (Home,  Hi04) ; Lamv,  De  [ 
Ttib.jied.  sand.  civ.  etc.,  vii  (Paris,  17:20),  bk.  iv,  p.  552-  1 
687 ; Reland,  Pa  best.  p.  832  sq. ; Offcnhaus,  Descript,  ret. 
I/iei-osal.  (I)aventr.  1714);  Faber,  Archteol.  i,  273  sq. ; 

I Iamesveld,  ii,  2 sq. ; Rosenm idler,  A Iterth.  II,  ii,  202  sq. ; 
Robinson,  Researches , i,  408-516;  Williams,  l loin  City , 
ii,  13-64;  Bibliotheca  Sacra,  1843,  p.  154  sq.;  1846,  p. 
413  sq.,  605  sq. ; 1848,  p.  92  sq. ; Reisner,  lerusulem  IV- 
tustissima  Descripta  (Francof.  1563);  Olshausen,  Zur 
Tnpoyruphie  d.  alien  Jerusalem  (Kiel,  1833);  Adriclio- 
mius,  Jlierusalem  sicut  Christi  tempore  floruit  (Colon. 
1593) ; Chrysanthi  (Beat.  Patr.  Hierosolymorum)  I/isfo- 
ria  et  Descriptio  Term  Sanctce,  Vrhisque  Sanctre  1/ieru- 
salem  (Yenet.  172&)  [this  work  is  in  Creek] ; D’Anville, 
JJissert.  sur  l' Eteiulue  de  I'A  ncierme  Jerusalem  (Paris,  i 
1747);  Tlirupp,  .1  ncic-nt  Jerusalem  (Loud.  1855) ; Strong’s 
Harmony  and  Expos,  of  the  Gospels,  Append,  ii ; Sepp,  \ 
Jerusalem  (Munich,  1863);  Barclay,  City  of  the  Great  j 
King  (Phila.  1858) ; Fergusson,  Ancient  Topoyrapby  of  | 
Jerusalem  [altogether  astray]  (Lond.  1847);  Lewin,./c-  ! 
rnsulem  (London,  1861);  Pierotti,  Jerusalem  Explored 
(Loudon,  1864) ; Unruh,  Das  ulte  Jerusalem  (Langens. 
1861);  Scholz,  De  Hierosolynue  situ  (Bonn,  1835). 

III.  Modem  City. — 1.  Situation. — The  following  able  | 
sketch  of  the  general  position  of  Jerusalem  is  extracted 
from  Dr.  Robinson’s  Researches  (i,  380-384):  “Jerusa- 
lem lies  near  the  summit  of  a broad  mountain-ridge,  1 
extending  without  interruption  from  the  plain  of  Es- 
draelon  to  a line  drawn  between  the  south  end  of  the  \ 
Dead  Sea  and  the  south-east  corner  of  the  Meditcrrane-  ■ 
ail ; or,  more  properly,  perhaps,  it  may  be  regarded  as  1 
extending  as  jar  south  as  to  Jebel  Araif,  in  the  Desert,  I 
where  it  sinks  down  at  once  to  the  level  of  the  great  . 
western  plateau.  This  tract,  which  is  everywhere  not  j 
less  than  from  20  to  25  geographical  miles  in  breadth,  1 
is,  in  lact,  high,  uneven  table-land.  It  everywhere  forms 
the  precipitous  western  wall  of  the  great  valley  of  the  ' 
Jordan  and  the  Dead  Sea,  while  towards  the  west  it 
sinks  down  by  an  offset  into  a range  of  lower  hills, 
which  lie  between  it  and  the  great  plain  along  the  coast 
of  the  Mediterranean.  The  surface  of  this  upper  region 
is  everywhere  rocky,  uneven,  and  mountainous,  and  is, 
moreover,  cut  up  by  deep  valleys  which  run  east  or 
west  on  either  side  towards  the  Jordan  or  the  Mediter- 
ranean. The  line  of  division,  or  water-shed,  between 
the  waters  of  these  valleys — a term  which  here  applies 
almost  exclusively  to  the  waters  of  the  rainy  season — 
follows  for  the  most  part  the  height  of  land  along  the 
ridge,  yet  not  so  hut  that  the  heads  of  the  valleys, 
which  run  off  in  different  directions,  often  interlap  for 
a considerable  distance.  Thus,  for  example,  a valley 
which  descends  to  the  Jordan  often  lias  its  head  a mile 
or  two  westward  of  the  commencement  of  other  valleys 
which  run  to  the  western  sea. 

“ From  the  great  plain  of  Esdraelon  onwards  towards 
the  south,  the  mountainous  country  rises  gradually, 
forming  the  tract  anciently  known  as  the  mountains  of 
Ephraim  and  Judah,  until,  in  the  vicinity  of  Hebron,  it 
attains  an  elevation  of  nearly  3000  Paris  feet  above  the 


level  of  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  Further  north,  on  u 
line  drawn  from  the  north  end  of  the  Dead  Sea  towards 
the  true  west,  the  ridge  has  an  elevation  of  only  about 
2500  Paris  feet,  and  here,  close  upon  the  water-shed,  lies 
the  city  of  Jerusalem.  Its  mean  geographical  position 
is  in  lat.3l°  46' 43"  N.,  and  long.  So3  13'  E.  from  (irecu- 
wich. 

“ Six  or  seven  miles  north  and  north-west  of  the  city 
is  spread  out  the  open  plain  or  basin  round  about  el-Jib 
(Gibeon),  extending  also  towards  el-Bireh  (Bceroth), 
the  waters  of  which  How  off  at  its  south-east  part 
through  the  deep  valley  here  called  by  the  Arabs  wady 
Beit  Ilanina,  but  to  which  the  monks  and  travellers 
have  usually  given  the  name  of  the  * Yallcv  of  Turpen- 
tine,’ or  of  the  Terebinth,  on  the  mistaken  supposition 
that  it  is  the  ancient  Yallev  of  Elah.  This  great  valley 
passes  along  in  a ‘south-west  direction  an  hour  or  more 
west  of  Jerusalem,  and  finally  opens  out  from  the  moun- 
tains into  the  western  plain,  at  the  distance  of  six  or 
eight  hours  south-west  from  the  city,  under  the  name 
of  wady  es-Sfirfir.  The  traveller,  on  his  way  from  Ram- 
leh  to  Jerusalem,  descends  into  and  crosses  t his  deep  val- 
ley at  the  village  of  Kuldnieli,  on  its  western  side,  an 
hour  and  a half  from  the  latter  city.  On  again  reach- 
ing the  high  ground  on  its  eastern  side,  he  enters  upon 
an  open  tract  sloping  gradually  downward  towards  the 
east,  and  sees  before  him,  at  the  distance  of  about  two 
miles,  the  walls  and  domes  of  the  holy  city,  and  beyond 
them  the  higher  ridge  or  summit  of  the  Mount  of  Ol- 
ives. The  traveller  now  descends  gradually  towards 
the  city  along  a broad  swell  of  ground,  having  at  some 
distance  on  his  left  the  shallow  northern  part  of  the  Yal- 
lcy  of  Jehoshaphat ; close  at  hand,  on  his  right,  the  ba- 
sin which  forms  the  beginning  of  the  Yalley  of  Ilin- 
nom.  Farther  down  both  these  valleys  become  deep, 
narrow,  ami  precipitous;  that  of  Ilinnom  bends  south 
and  again  east  nearly  at  right  angles,  and  unites  with 
the  other,  which  then  continues  its  course  to  the  Dead 
Sea.  Upon  the  broad  and  elevated  promontory  within 
the  fork  of  these  two  valleys  lies  the  holy  city.  All 
around  are  higher  hills;  on  the  east,  the  Mount  of  Ol- 
ives; on  the  south,  the  Ilill  of  Evil  Counsel,  so  called, 
rising  directly  from  the  Yale  of  Ilinnom;  on  the  west 
the  ground  rises  gently,  as  above  described,  to  the  bor- 
ders of  the  great  wady;  while  on  the  north,  a bend  of 
the  ridge,, connected  with  the  Mount  of  Olives,  bounds 
the  prospect  at  the  distance  of  more  than  a mile.  To- 
wards the  south-west  the  view  is  somewhat  more  open, 
for  here  lies  the  plain  of  Rcphaim,  commencing  just  at 
the  southern  brink  of  the  Yalley  of  Ilinnom,  and  stretch- 
ing off  south-west,  where  it  runs  to  the  western  sea.  In 
the  north-west,  too,  the  eye  reaches  up  along  ttie  upper 
part  of  the  Yalley  of  Jehoshaphat,  and  from  many  points 
can  discern  the  Mosque  of  Neby  Samwil,  situated  on  a 
lofty  ridge  beyond  the  great  wady,  at  the  distance  of 
two  hours. 

“The  surface  of  the  elevated  promontory  itself,  on 
which  the  city  stands,  slopes  somewhat  steeply  towards 
the  east,  terminating  on  the  brink  of  the  Yalley  of  Je- 
hoshaphat. From  the  northern  part,  near  the  present 
Damascus-gate,  a depression  or  shallow  wady  runs  in  a 
southern  direction,  and  is  joined  by  another  depression 
or  shallow  wady  (still  easy  to  he  traced)  coming  down 
from  near  the  jaffa-gate.  It  then  continues  obliquely 
down  the  slope,  but  with  a deeper  bed,  in  a southern  di- 
rection, quite  to  the  Pool  of  Siloam  and  the  Yalley  of’ 
Jehoshaphat.  This  is  the  ancient  Tyropoeon.  West  of 
its  lower  part  Zion  i*ises  loftily,  lying  mostly  without 
the  modern  city;  while  outlie  east  of  the  Tyropoeon  lie 
Bezctha,  Moriah,  and  Ophel,  the  last  a long  and  com- 
paratively narrow  ridge,  also  outside  of  the  modern  city, 
and  terminating  in  a roekv  point  over  the  Pool  of  Silo- 
am. These  last  three  hills  may  strictly  be  taken  as 
only  parts  of  one  and  the  same  ridge.  The  breadth  of 
the  whole  site  of  Jerusalem,  from  the  brow  of  the  Yalley 
of  Hinnom,  near  the  Jaffa-gate,  to  the  brink  of  the  Yal- 
ley of  Jehoshaphat,  is  about  1020  yards,  or  nearly  half  a 


JERUSALEM 


854 


JERUSALEM 


Map  of  the  Environs  of  Jerusalem. 


JERUSALEM 


855 


JERUSALEM 


geographical  mile,  of  which  distance  318  yards  are  oc- 
cupied by  the  area  of  the  great  mosque  el-llaratn  esh- 
Shcrif.  North  of  the  Jaff'a-gatc  the  city  wall  sweeps 
round  more  to  the  west,  and  increases  the  breadth  of  the 
city  in  that  part. 

“The  country  around  Jerusalem  is  all  of  limestone 
formation,  and  not  particularly  fertile.  The  rocks  ev- 
erywhere come  out  above  the  surface,  which  in  many 
parts  is  also  thickly  strewed  with  loose  stones,  and  the 
aspect  of  the  whole  region  is  barren  and  dreary ; yet  the 
olive  thrives  here  abundantly,  and  lields  of  grain  are 
seen  in  the  valleys  and  level  places,  but  they  arc  less 
productive  than  in  the  region  of  llebrou  and  Nablus. 
Neither  vineyards  nor  tig-trees  flourish  on  the  high 
ground  around  the  city,  though  the  latter  arc  found  in 
the  gardens  below  Siloam,  and  very  frequently  in  the 
vicinity  of  Bethlehem.” 

“The  elevation  of  Jerusalem  is  a subject  of  constant 
reference  and  exultation  by  the  Jewish  writers.  Their 
fervid  poetry  abounds  with  allusions  to  its  height,  to 
the  ascent  thither  of  the  tribes  from  all  parts  of  the 
country.  It  was  the  habitation  of  Jehovah,  from  which 
‘he  looked  upon  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  world’  (Psa. 
xxxiii,  id):  its  kings  were ‘higher  than  the  kings  of 
the  earth’  (Psa.  Ixxxix,  27).  In  the  later  Jewish  litera- 
ture of  narrative  and  description  this  poetry  is  reduced 
to  prose,  and  in  the  most  exaggerated  form.  Jerusalem 
was  so  high  that  the  flames  of  Janmia  were  visible  from 
it  (2  Mace,  xii,  0).  From  the  tower  of  Psephinus,  out- 
side the  walls,  could  be  discerned  on  the  one  hand  the 
Mediterranean  Sea,  on  the  other  the  country  of  Arabia 
(Josephus,  War,  v,  4, 3).  Hebron  could  be  seen  from  the 
roofs  of  the  Temple  (Light foot,  Chur.  Cent.  xlix).  The 
same  thing  can  be  traced  in  Josephus’s  account  of  the  en- 
virons of  the  city,  in  which  he  has  exaggerated  what  is, 
in  truth,  a remarkable  ravine  [and  has,  by  late  excava- 
tions, been  proved  to  have  been  much  greater  ancient- 
ly J,  to  a depth  so  enormous  that  the  head  swam  and  the 
eyes  failed  in  gazing  into  its  recesses  (Ant.  xv,  1 1,  5)” 
(Smith). 

The  heights  of  the  principal  points  in  and  round  the 
city,  above  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  as  given  by  lieuten- 
ant Van  dc  Velde,  in  the  Memoir  (p.  179,  ISO)  accom- 


panying his  Map,  1858,  arc  as  follow : Feel 

North-west  corner  of  the  city  {Kasr  Jalnd) 2010 

Mount  Zion  ( Coenaculinn ) 2537 

Mount  Moriah  (H  tram  esh-Shcrif) 2429 

Bridge  over  the  Ivedrou,  near  Gethsemaue 22S1 

Pool  of  siloam 2114 


Jiir-Eyub,  at  the  confluence  of  llimtom  and  Kedrou.  1996 
Mount  of  Olives,  Church  of  Ascension  on  summit...  2724 
A table  oflevels  differing  somewhat  from  these  will  be 
found  in  Barclay’s  City  of  the  Great  King,  p.  103  sq. 

2.  Respecting  the  supply  of  the  city  with  water , we 
learn  from  Strabo’s  account  of  the  siege  of  Jerusalem  by 
Ponipev  that  the  town  was  well  provided  with  water 
within  the  walls,  but  that  there  was  none  in  the  envi- 
rons (Geog.  xvi,  2,  40).  Probably  the  Roman  troops 
then  suffered  from  want  of  water,  as  did  other  armies 
which  laid  siege  to  Jerusalem.  In  the  narratives  of  all 
such  sieges  wc  never  read  of  the  besieged  suffering  from 
thirst,  although  driven  to  the  most  dreadful  extremities 
and  resources  by  hunger,  while  the  besiegers  arc  fre- 
quently described  as  suffering  greatly  from  want  of  wa- 
ter, and  as  being  obliged  to  fetch  it  from  a great  dis- 
tance. The  agonies  of  thirst  sustained  by  the  iirst  Cru- 
saders in  their  siege  of  Jerusalem  will  he  remembered 
by  most  readers  from  the  vivid  picture  drawn  by  Tasso, 
if  not  from  the  account  furnished  by  William  of  Tyre. 
Yet  when  the  town  was  taken  plenty  of  water  was  found 
within  it.  This  is  a very  singular  circumstance,  and  is 
perhaps  only  in  part  explained  by  reference  to  the  sys- 
tem of  preserving  water  in  cisterns,  as  at  this  day  in 
Jerusalem.  Solomon’s  aqueduct  near  Bethlehem  to  Je- 
rusalem could  have  been  no  dependence,  as  its  waters 
might  easily  have  been  cut  off  by  the  besiegers.  All 
the  wells,  also,  are  now  outside  the  town,  and  no  interi- 
or fountain  is  mentioned  save  that  of  Hezekiah,  which 


is  scarcely  fit  for  drinking.  At  the  siege  by  Titus  the 
well  of  Siloam  may  have  been  in  possession  of  the  Jews, 
i.  c.  within  the  walls;  but  at  the  siege  by  the  Crusaders 
it  was  certainly  held  by  the  besieging  Franks,  and  yet 
the  latter  perished  from  thirst,  while  the  besieged  had 
“ingentes  copias  aquae.”  We  cannot  here  go  through 
the  evidence  which  by  combination  and  comparison 
might  throw  some  light  on  this  remarkable  question. 
There  is,  however,  good  ground  to  conclude  that  from 
very  ancient  times  there  lias  been  under  the  Temple  an 
unfailing  source  of  water,  derived  by  secret  and  subter- 
raneous channels  from  springs  to  the  west  of  the  town, 
and  communicating  by  other  subterranean  passages  with 
the  Pool  of  Siloam  and  the  Fountain  of  the  Virgin  in  the 
cast  of  the  town,  whether  they  were  within  or  without 
the  walls  of  the  town. 

The  existence  -of  a perennial  source  of  water  below 
the  Temple  has  always  been  admitted.  Tacitus  knew 
of  it  (Hist,  v,  12);  and  Aristcas,  in  describing  the  an- 
cient Temple,  informs  us  that  “ the  supply  of  water  was 
unfailing,  inasmuch  as  there  was  an  abundant  natural 
fountain  flowing  in  the  interior,  and  reservoirs  of  admi- 
rable construction  under  ground,  extending  five  stadia 
round  the  Temple,  with  pipes  and  conduits  unknown  to 
all  except  those  to  whom  the  service  was  intrusted, 'by 
which  the  water  was  brought  to  various  parts  of  the 
Temple  and  again  conducted  off.”  The  Moslems  also 
have  constantly  affirmed  the  existence  of  this  fountain 
or  cistern;  but  a reserve  has  always  been  kept  up  as  to 
the  means  by  which  it  is  sup] died.  This  reserve  seems 
to  have  been  maintained  by  the  successive  occupants  of 
Jerusalem  as  a point  of  civic  honor;  and  this  fact  alone 
intimates  that  there  was  danger  to  the  town  in  its  be- 
coming known,  and  points  to  the  fact  that  the  supply 
came  from  without  the  city  by  secret  channels,  which  it 
was  of  importance  not  to  disclose.  Yet  wc  are  plainly 
told  in  the  Bible  that  Hezekiah  “stopped  the  upper 
water-course  of  Gihon,  and  brought  it  down  to  the  west 
side  of  the  city  of  David”  (1  Kings  i,  33,  38) ; from  2 
Chron.  xxxii,  30,  it  seems  that  all  the  neighboring  foun- 
tains were  thus  “stopped”  or  covered,  and  the  brook 
which  they  had  formed  diverted  by  subterraneous  chan- 
nels into  the  town,  for  the  express  purpose  of  preventing 
besiegers  from  finding  the  “ much  water”  which  previ- 
ously existed  outside  the  walls  (comp,  also  Ecelus.  xlviii, 
17).  Perhaps,  likewise,  the  prophet  Ezekiel  (xlvii,  1- 
12)  alludes  to  this  secret  fountain  under  the  Temple 
I when  lie  speaks  of  waters  issuing  from  the  threshold  of 
' the  Temple  towards  the  cast,  and  flowing  down  towards 
the  desert  as  an  abundant  and  beautiful  stream.  This 
figure  may  be  drawn  from  the  waters  of  the  inner  source 
under  the  Temple,  being  at  the  time  of  overflow  dis- 
charged by  the  outlets  at  Siloam  into  the  Ividron,  which 
takes  the  eastward  course  thus  described. 

There  are  certainly  wells,  or  rather  shafts,  in  and 
near  the  Temple  area,  which  arc  said  to  derive  their 
waters  through  a passage  of  masonry  four  or  five  feet 
high,  from  a chamber  or  reservoir  cut  in  the  solid  rock 
under  the  grand  mosque,  in  which  the  water  is  said  to 
rise  from  the  rock  into  a basin  at  the  bottom.  The  ex- 
istence of  this  reservoir  and  source  of  water  is  affirmed 
by  the  citizens,  and  coincides  with  the  previous  intima- 
tions, but  it  must  be  left  for  future  explorers  to  clear  up 
all  the  obscurities  in  which  the  matter  is  involved. 
Even  Dr.  Barclay,  who  gave  great  attention  to  this  snl>- 
ject,  was  unable  fully  to  clear  it  up  (City  of  the  Great 
King , p,  293). 

The  pools  and  tanks  of  ancient  Jerusalem  were  very 
abundant,  and,  each  house  being  provided  with  what 
wc  may  call  a bottle-necked  cistern  for  rain-water, 
drought  within  the  city  was  rare ; and  history  shows  ns 
that  it  was  the  besiegers,  not  the  besieged,  that  gener- 
ally snffered  from  want  of  water  (Gul.  Tyr.  bk.  viii,  p.  7 ; 
De  Waha,  Labores  Godfredi,  p.  421),  though  occasion- 
ally this  was  reversed  (Josephus,  I For.  v,  9,  4).  Yet 
neither  in  ancient  nor  modern  times  could  the  neigh- 
borhood of  Jeiusalem  be  called  “waterless.”  as  Strabo 


856 


JERUSALEM 


JERUSALEM 


describes  it  ( Geoyr . xvi,  2,  36).  In  summer  the  fields 
and  hills  around  are  verdureless  and  gray,  scorched  with 
months  of  drought,  yet  within  a radius  of  seven  miles 
there  are  some  thirty  or  forty  natural  springs  (Barclay’s 
City  of  the  Great  King,  p.  295).  The  artificial  provision 
for  a supply  of  water  in  Jerusalem  in  ancient  times  was 
perhaps  the  most  complete  and  extensive  ever  under- 
taken for  a city.  Till  lately  this  was  not  fully  credited ; 
but  Barclay’s,  and,  more  recently,  Whitty’s  and  Pierot- 
ti’s  subterraneous  excavations  have  proved  it.  The 
aqueduct  of  Solomon  (winding  along  lor  twelve  miles 
and  a quarter)  pours  the  waters  of  the  three  immense 
pools  into  the  enormous  Temple  wells,  cut  out  like  cav- 
erns in  the  rock;  and  the  pools,  which  surround  the  city 
in  all  directions,  supply  to  a great  extent  the  want  of  a 
river  or  a lake  (Traill’s  Josephus,  vol.  i ; Append,  p.  57, 
60).  For  a description  of  these,  see  Thomson,  Land  and 
Book,  ii,  523  sq. 

The  ordinary  means  taken  by  the  inhabitants  to  se- 
cure a supply  of  water  have  been  described  under  the 
article  Cistern;  for  interesting  details,  see  Baumer’s 
PaUistina,  p.  329-333;  Robinson’s  Researches,  i,  479- 
516;  Olin’s  Travels,  ii,  168-181;  and  Williams’s  Holy 
City,  ii,  453-502. 

3.  We  present  in  this  connection  some  additional  re- 
marks on  the  fortifications  of  the  city.  Dr.  Robinson 
thinks  that  the  wall  of  the  new  city,  the  vElia  of  Hadri- 
an, nearly  coincided  with  that  of  the  present  Jerusalem ; 
and  the  portion  of  Mount  Zion  which  now  lies  outside 
would  seem  then  also^to  have  been  excluded ; for  Euse- 
bius and  Cyril,  in  the  4th  century,  speak  of  the  denun- 
ciation of  the  prophet  being  fulfilled,  which  describes 
Zion  as  “a  ploughed  field”  (Mic.  iii,  2). 

In  the  Middle  Ages  there  appear  to  have  been  two 
gates  on  each  side  of  the  city,  making  eight  in  all;  a 
number  not  greatly  short  of  that  assigned  in  the  above 
estimate  to  the  ancient  Jerusalem,  and  probably  occu- 
pying nearly  the  places  of  the  most  important  of  the 
ancient  ones. 

On  the  west  side  were  two  gates,  of  which  the  prin- 
cipal was  the  Porta  David,  gate  of  David,  often  men- 
tioned by  the  writers  on  the  Crusades.  It  wras  called 
by  the  Arabs  Bab  el-Mihrab,  and  corresponds  to  the 
present  Jaffa-gate,  or  Bab  el-Khulil.  The  other  was 
the  gate  of  the  Fuller’s  Field  ( Porta  Yittcc  Fullonis),  so 
called  from  Isa.  vii,  3.  This  seems  to  be  the  same,  which 
others  call  Porta  Judiciaria , and  vdiich  is  described  as 
being  in  the  wall  over  against,  the  church  of  the  Holy 
Sepulchre,  leading  to  Silo  (Neby  Samwil)  and  Gibeon. 
This  seems  to  be  that  which  the  Arabian  writers  call 
Serb.  There  is  no  trace  of  it  in  the  present  wall. 

On  the  north  there  w'ere  also  two  gates,  and  all  the 
Middle-Age  writers  speak  of  the  principal  of  them  as 
the  gate  of  St.  Stephen,  from  the  notion  that  the  death 
of  the  protomartyr  took  place  near  it.  This  was  also 
called  the  gate  of  Ephraim,  in  reference  to  its  probable 
ancient  name.  Arabic  writers  called  it  Bab  ’.-I  mud  el- 
Ghurab,  of  which  the  present  name,  Bab  el-' Annul,  is 
only  a contraction.  The  present  gate  of  St.  Stephen  is 
on  the  east  of  the  city,  ami  the  scene  of  the  martyrdom 
is  now  placed  near  it;  but  there  is  no  account  of  the 
change.  Further  cast  was  the  gate  of  Benjamin  ( Porta 
Bevjamims),  corresponding  apparently  to  what  is  now 
called  the  gate  of  Ilerod. 

On  the  east  there  seem  to  have  been  at  least  two 
gates,  'l’lie  northernmost  is  described  by  Adamnanus 
as  a small  portal  leading  down  to  the  Valley  of  Jehosli- 
aphat.  It  was  called  the  gate  of  Jehoshaphat  from  the 
valley  to  which  it  led.  It  seems  to  be  represented  by 
the  present  gate  of  St.  Stephen.  The  Arabian  writers 
call  it  Bab  el-Usbat,  gate  of  the  Tribes,  being  another 
form  of  the  modern  Arabic  name  Bab  ts-Subut.  The 
present  gate  of  St.  Stephen  has  four  lions  sculptured 
over  it  on  the  outside,  which,  as  well  as  the  architec- 
ture, show  that  it  existed  before  the  present  walls.  Dr. 
Robinson  suggests  that  the  original  “small  portal”  was 
rebuilt  on  a larger  scale  by  the  Franks  when  they  built 


up  the  walls  of  the  city,  either  in  A.D.  1 178  or  1239. 
The  other  gate  is  the  famous  Golden  Gate  ( Porta  aurea) 


Interior  of  the  “Golden  Gate.” 


in  the  eastern  wall  of  the  Temple  area.  It  is  now  called 
by  the  Arabs  Bab  ed-Dahariyeh,  but  formerly  Bab  er- 
Rameh,  “Gate  of  Mercy.”  The  name  Golden  Gate  ap- 
pears to  have  come  from  a supposed  connection  with 
one  of  the  ancient  gates  of  the  Temple,  which  are  said 
to  have  been  covered  with  gold ; but  this  name  cannot 
be  traced  back  beyond  the  historians  of  the  Crusades. 
Tliis  gate  is,  from  its  architecture,  obviously  of  Roman 
origin,  and  is  conjectured  to  have  belonged  to  the  inclo- 
sure of  the  temple  of  Jupiter  which  was  built  by'  Hadrian 
upon  Mount  Moriah.  The  exterior  is  now  walled  up; 
but,  being  double,  the  interior  forms  within  the  area  a 
recess,  which  is  used  for  prayer  by  the  Moslem  worship- 
per. Different  reasons  are  given  for  the  closing  of  this 
gate.  It  was  probably  because  it  was  found  inconven- 
ient that  a gate  to  the  mosque  should  be  open  in  the 
exterior  -wall.  Although  not  walled  up,  it  was  kept 
closed  even  when  the  Crusaders  were  in  possession  of 
the  city',  and  only  opened  once  a year,  on  Palm  Sunday, 
in  celebration  of  our  Lord’s  supposed  triumphal  entry 
through  it  to  the  Temple. 

Of  all  the  towers  with  which  the  city  was  anciently 
adorned  and  defended,  the  most  important  is  that  of 
Hippicus,  which  Josephus,  as  we  have  already'  seen,  as- 
sumed as  the  starting-point  in  his  description  of  all  the 
walls  of  the  city.  Herod  gave  to  it  the  name  of  a 
friend  who  was  slain  in  battle.  It  was  a quadrangular 
structure,  twenty-five  cubits  on  each  side,  and  built  up 
entirely  solid  to  the  height  of  thirty  cubits.  Above 
this  solid  part  was  a cistern  twenty  cubits;  and  then, 
for  twenty-five  cubits  more,  were  chambers  of  various 
kinds,  writh  a breastwork  of  two  cubits,  and  battlements 
of  three  cubits  upon  the  top.  The  altitude  of  the  whole 
tow'er  vras  consequently'  eighty  cubits.  The  stones  of 
which  it  wras  built  were  very  large,  twenty  cubits  long 
by  ten  broad  and  five  high,  and  (probably  in  the  upper 
part)  were  of  white  maible.  Dr.  Robinson  has  shown 
that  this  tower  should  be  sought  at  the  north-west  cor- 
ner of  the  upper  city',  cr  Mount  Zion.  This  part,  a lit- 
tle to  the  south  of  the  Jaffa-gate,  is  now'  occnpied  by 
the  citadel.  It  is  an  irregular  assemblage  of  square 
towers,  surrounded  on  the  inner  side  towards  the  city 
byr  a low'  wall,  and  having  on  the  outer  or  west  side  a 
deep  fosse.  The  towers  which  rise  from  the  brink  of 
the  fosse  are  protected  on  that  side  by'  a low  sloping 
bulwark  or  buttress,  which  rises  from  the  bottom  of  the 
trench  at  an  angle  of  forty-five  degrets.  This  part 
bears  evident  marks  of  antiquity,  and  I)r.  Robinson  is 
inclined  to  ascribe  these  massive  outworks  to  the  time 
of  the  rebuilding  and  fortifying  of  the  city  by  Hadrian. 
This  fortress  is  described  by'  the  Middle-Age  historians 
as  the  tower  or  citadel  of  David.  Within  it,  as  the 
traveller  enters  the  city'  by  the  Jaffa-gate,  the  north- 
eastern tower  attracts  his  notice  as  bearing  evident 
marks  of  higher  antiquity  than  any  of  the  others.  The 


JERUSALEM 


857 


JERUSALEM 


upper  part  is,  indeed,  modern,  but  the  lower  part  is  built  i 
of  larger  stones,  bevelled  at  the  edges,  and  apparently 
still  occupying  their  original  places.  This  tower  has 
been  singled  out  by  the  Franks,  and  bears  among  them 
the  name  of  the  tower  of  David,  while  they  sometimes 
give  to  the  whole  fortress  the  name  of  the  castle  of  Da- 
vid. Taking  all  the  circumstances  into  account,  Dr. 
l’obinson  thinks  that  the  antique  lower  portion  of  this 
tower  is  in  all  probability  a remnant  of  the  tower  of 
Hippicus,  which,  as  Josephus  states,  was  left  standing 
by  Titus  when  he  destroyed  the  city.  This  discovery, 
however,  is  not  new,  the  identity  having  been  advoca- 
ted by  Raumer  ami  others  before  Dr.  Robinson  travelled. 
This  view  has  been  somewhat  modified  by  Mr.  Williams, 
who  shows  that  the  north-western  angle  of  the  present 
citadel  exactly  corresponds  in  size  and  position  to  the 
description  of  Josephus,  while  other  portions  of  the  same 
general  structure  have  been  rebuilt  upon  the  old  foun- 
dations of  the  adjoining  towers  of  Mariamne  and  Pha- 
saclus  ( Holy  City , ii,  14- 1G). 


The  “ Castle  of  David.” 

The  present  Damascus-gate  in  particular,  from  its 
massive  style  and  other  circumstances,  seems  to  have 
occupied  a prominent  point  along  the  ancient  “second 
wall”  of  the  city.  Connected  with  its  structures  are  the 
immense  underground  quarries,  on  which,  as  well  as  out 


Plan  of  Quarries  nuder  Jerusalem. 


of  which,  the  city  may  be  said  to  be  built.  From  them 
have  been  hewn,  in  past  ages,  the  massive  limetone 
blocks  which  appear  in  the  walls  and  elsewhere.  In 
these  dark  chambers  one  may,  with  the  help  of  torches, 
wander  for  hours,  scrambling  over  mounds  of  rubbish; 
now  climbing  into  one  chamber,  now  descending  into 
another,  noting  the  various  cuttings,  grooves,  cleavages 
and  hammer-marks;  and  wondering  at  the  different 
shapes— bars  here,  slices  there,  boulders  there,  thrown 
up  together  in  utter  confusion.  Only  in  one  corner  do 
wc  find  a few  drippings  of  water  and  a tiny  spring;  for 
these  singular  excavations,  like  the  great  limestone  cave 
at  Klnireitun  (beyond  Bethlehem,  probably  Adullam), 
are  entirely  free  from  damp ; and  though  the  only  bit 
of  intercourse  with  the  upper  air  is  by  the  small  twenty- 
inch  hole  at  the  Damascus-gato,  through  which  the  en- 
terprising traveller  wriggles  into  them  like  a serpent, 
yet  the  air  is  fresh  and  somewhat  warm  (Stewart’s  Tent 
anil  Khan,  p.  2G3-2GIP.  These  are  no  doubt  the  subter- 
ranean retreats  referred  to  by  Josephus  as  occupied  by 
the  despairing  Jews  in  the  last 
days  of  Jerusalem  ( War,  vi,  7, 
3 ; vi,  8, 4)  ; and  to  which  Tas- 
so alludes  when  relating  the 
wizard’s  promise  to  conduct 
the  “ Soldan”  through  God- 
frey’s leaguer  into  the  heart 
of  the  city  (Gems.  Liber.  x,29). 
The  native  name  for  the  quar- 
ries is  Mayhdret  el-Kotton , the 
Cotton  Cave.  For  a full  de- 
scription of  these  caverns,  see 
Barclay,  City  of  the  Great  King, 
p.4G0  sq. ; Thomson,  Land  and 
/)Y>o/-,ii,4!)L  sq. ; Wilson  in  the 
Ordnance  Surrey  (18G5,  p.  G3). 

4.  The  following  description 
of  the  present  city  is  chiefly 
abridged  from  the  excellent 
account  of  Dr.  Olin  ( Travels , 
vol.  ii,  chap.  iv).  The  general 
view  of  the  city  from  the  Mt. 
of  Olives  is  mentioned  more  or  less  by  all  travellers  as 
that  from  which  they  derive  their  most  distinct  and 
abiding  impression  of  Jerusalem. 

The  summit  of  the  Mount  of  Olives  is  about  half  a 
mile  east  from  the  city,  which  it  completely  overlooks, 
every  considerable  edifice  and  al- 
most every  house  being  visible. 
The  city,  scon  from  this  point,  ap- 
pears to  be  a regular  inclined  plain, 
sloping  gently  and  uniformly  from 
west  to  cast,  or  towards  tlie  ob- 
server, and  indented  by  a slight 
depression  or  shallow  vale,  run- 
ning nearly  through  the  centre  in 
the  same  direction.  The  south- 
east corner  of  the  quadrangle — for 
that  may  he  assumed  as  the  figure 
formed  bv  the  rocks — that  which 
is  nearest  to  the  observer,  is  occu- 
pied by  the  mosque  of  Omar  and  its 
extensive  and  beautiful  grounds. 
This  is  Mount  Moriah,  the  site  of 
Solom ( >n ’s Temple ; and  t h c ground 
embraced  in  this  inclosurc  occu- 
pies about  an  eighth  of  the  whole 
modern  city.  It  is  covered  with 
greensward,  and  planted  sparingly 
with  olive,  cypress, and  other  trees, 
and  it  is  certainly  the  most  lovely 
feature  of  the  town,  whether  we 
have  reference  to  the  splendid 
structures  or  the  beautiful  lawn, 
spread  out  around  them. 

The  south-west  quarter,  em- 
bracing that  part  of  Mount  Zion 


JERUSALEM 


858 


JERUSALEM 


■*  ■ ' - ~*s 

s'  . ■ J o - • “ 

. 

sS.saS 


- TO^BS!^"  **, 
'“Bir.kol 


Bouse. -Pot'  „ +'pi 
Che  CreckJ^rch  Imnridri  I c 


Map  of  Modern  Jerusalem. 


which  is  within  the  modern  town,  is  to  a great  ex- 
tent occupied  by  the  Armenian  convent,  an  enormous 
edifice,  which  is  the  only  conspicuous  object  in  this 
neighborhood.  The  north-west  is  largely  occupied  by 
the  Latin  convent,  another  very  extensive  establish- 
ment. About  midway  between  these  two  convents  is 
the  castle  or  citadel,  close  to  the  Bethlcliem-gate,  al- 
ready mentioned.  The  north-east  quarter  of  Jerusalem 
is  but  partially  built  up,  and  it  has  more  the  aspect  of  a 
rambling  agricultural  village  than  that  of  a crowded 
city.  The  vacant  spots  here  are  green  with  gardens 
and  olive-trees.  There  is  another  large  vacant  tract 
along  the  southern  wall,  and  west  of  the  llaram,  also 
covered  with  verdure.  Near  the  centre  of  the  city  also 
appear  two  or  three  green  spots,  which  are  small  gar- 
dens. The  Church  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre  is  the  only 
conspicuous  edifice  in  this  vicinity,  and  its  domes  are 
striking  objects.  There  are  no  buildings  which,  either 


from  their  size  or  beauty,  are  likely  to  engage  the  at- 
tention. Eight  or  ten  minarets  mark  the  position  of  so 
many  mosques  in  different  parts  of  the  town,  but,  they 
are  only  noticed  because  of  their  elevation  above  the 
surrounding  edifices.  Upon  the  same  principle  the  eye 
rests  for  a moment  upon  a great  number  of  low  domes, 
which  form  the  roofs  of  the  principal  dwellings,  and  re- 
lieve the  heavy  uniformity  of  the  flat  plastered  roofs 
which  cover  the  greater  mass  of  more  humble  habita- 
tions. Man}'  ruinous  piles  and  a thousand  disgusting 
objects  are  concealed  or  disguised  by  the  distance.  Many 
inequalities  of  surface,  which  exist  to  so  great  an  extent 
that  there  is  not  a level  street  of  any  length  in  Jerusa- 
lem, are  also  unperceived. 

From  the  same  commanding  point  of  view  a few  ol- 
ive and  fig  trees  are  seen  in  the  lower  part  of  the  Talley 
of  Jehoshaphat,  and  scattered  over  the  side  of  Olivet 
from  its  base  to  the  summit.  They  are  sprinkled  yet 


JERUSALEM 


859 


JERUSALEM 


more  sparingly  on  the  southern  side  of  the  city  on 
Mounts  Zion  and  Ophel.  North  of  Jerusalem  the  olive 
plantations  appear  more  numerous  as  well  as  thriving, 
and  thus  oiler  a grateful  contrast  to  the  sunburnt  fields 
and  bare  rocks  which  predominate  in  this  landscape. 
The  region  west  of  the  city  appears  to  be  destitute  of 
trees.  Fields  of  stunted  wheat,  yellow  with  the  drought 
rather  than  white  for  the  harvest,  arc  seen  on  all  sides 
of  the  town. 

Within  the  gates,  however,  the  city  is  full  of  inequal- 
ities. The  passenger  is  always  ascending  or  descending. 
There  are  no  level  streets,  and  little  skill  or  labor  has  been 
employed  to  remove  or  diminish  the  inequalities  which 
nature  or  time  has  produced.  Houses  are  built  upon 
mountains  of  rubbish,  which  are  probably  twenty,  thir- 
ty, or  fifty  feet  above  the  natural  level,  and  the  streets 
are  constructed  with  the  same  disregard  to  conven- 
ience, with  this  difference,  that  some  slight  attention  is 
paid  to  the  possibility  of  carrying  off  surplus  water. 
The  streets  are,  without  exception,  narrow,  seldom  ex- 
ceeding eight  or  ton  feet  in  breadth.  The  houses  often 
meet,  and  in  some  instances  a building  occupies  both 
sides  of  the  street,  which  runs  under  a succession  of 
arches  barely  high  enough  to  permit  an  equestrian  to 
pass  under  them.  A canopy  of  old  mats  or  of  plank  is 
suspended  over  the  principal  streets  when  not  arched. 
This  custom  had  its  origin,  no  doubt,  in  the  beat  of  the 
climate,  which  is  very  intense  in  summer,  and  it  gives 
a gloomy  aspect  to  all  the  most  thronged  and  busy 
parts  of  the  city.  These  covered  ways  are  often  per- 
vaded by  currents  of  air  when  a perfect  calm  prevails  in 
other  places.  The  principal  streets  of  Jerusalem  run 
nearly  at  right  angles  to  each  other.  Very  few,  if  any 
of  them,  bear  names  among  the  native  population.  They 
are  badly  paved,  being  merely  laid  irregularly  with  raised 
stones,  with  a deep  square  channel  for  beasts  of  burden 
in  the  middle;  hut  the  steepness  of  the  ground  contrib- 
utes to  keep  them  cleaner  than  in  most  Oriental  cities. 

The  houses  of  Jerusalem  are  substantially  built  of  the 
limestone  of  which  the  whole  of  this  part  of  Palestine  is 
composed:  not  usually  hewn,  but  broken  into  regular 
forms,  and  making  a solid  wall  of  very  respectable  ap- 
pearance. For  the  most  part,  there  are  no  windows 
next  to  the  street,  and  the  few  which  exist  for  the  pur- 
poses of  light  or  ventilation  are  completely  masked  by 
casements  and  lattice-work.  The  apartments  receive 
their  light  from  the  open  courts  within.  The  ground 
plot  is  usually  surrounded  by  a high  inclosure,  common- 
ly forming  the  walls  of  the  house  only,  but  sometimes 
embracing  a small  garden  and  some  vacant  ground. 
The  rain-water  which  falls  upon  the  pavement  is  care- 
fully conducted,  by  means  of  gutters,  into  cisterns,  where 
it  is  preserved  for  domestic  uses.  The  people  of  Jerusa- 
lem rely  chiefly  upon  these  reservoirs  for  their  supply 
of  this  indispensable  article.  Every  house  has  its  cis- 
tern, and  the  larger  habitations  arc  provided  with  a 
considerable  number  of  them,  which  occupy  the  ground 
story  or  cells  formed  for  the  purpose  below  it.  Stone  is 
employed  in  building  for  all  the  purposes  to  which  it 
can  possibly  be  applied,  and  Jerusalem  is  hardly  more 
exposed  to  accidents  by  lire  than  a quarry  or  subterra- 
nean cavern.  The  floors,  stairs,  etc.,  are  of  stone,  and 
the  ceiling  is  usually  formed  by  a coat  of  plaster  laid 
upon  the  stones,  which  at  the  same  time  form  the  roof 
and  the  vaulted  top  of  the  room.  Doors,  sashes,  and  a 
few  other  appurtenances,  are  all  that  can  usually  be  af- 
forded of  a material  so  expensive  as  wood.  Tlie  little 
timber  which  is  used  is  mostly  brought  from  Mount 
Lebanon,  as  in  the  time,  of  Solomon.  A rough,  crooked 
stick  of  the  tig-tree,  or  some  gnarled,  twisted  planks 
made  of  the  olive — the  growth  of  Palestine,  are  occa- 
sionally seen.  In  other  respects,  the  description  in  the 
article  House  will  afford  a sulliciciit  notion  of  those  in 
Jerusalem.  A large  number  of  houses  in  Jerusalem  are 
in  a dilapidated  and  ruinous  state.  Nobody  seems  to 
make  repairs  so  long  as  his  dwelling  does  not  absolutely 
refuse  him  shelter  and  safety.  If  one  room  tumbles 


about  his  ears  lie  removes  into  another,  and  permits 
rubbish  and  vermin  to  accumulate  as  they  will  in  the 
deserted  halls.  Tottering  staircases  are  propped  to  pre- 
vent their  fall;  and,  when  the  editice  becomes  untena- 
ble^thc  occupant  seeks  another  a little  less  ruinous,  leav- 
ing the  wreck  to  a smaller  or  more  wretched  family,  or, 
more  probably,  to  a goatherd  and  his  flock.  Habita- 
tions which  have  a very  respectable  appearance  as  seen 
from  the  street,  are  often  found,  upon  entering  them,  to 
be  little  better  than  heaps  of  ruins. 

Nothing  of  this  would  be  suspected  from  the  general 
appearance  of  the  city  as  seen  from  the  various  com- 
manding points  without  the  walls,  nor  from  anything 
that  meets  the  eye  in  the  streets.  Few  towns  in  the 
East  offer  a more  imposing  spectacle  to  the  view  of  the 
approaching  stranger,  lie  is  struck  with  the  height 
and  massiveness  of  the  walls,  which  are  kept  in  perfect 
repair,  and  naturally  produce  a favorable  opinion  of  the 
wealth  and  comfort  which  they  arc  designed  to  protect. 
Upon  entering  the  gates,  he  is  apt,  after  all  that  lias 
been  published  about  the  solitude  that  reigns  in  the 
streets,  to  be  surprised  at  meeting  large  numbers  ofpeo- 
ple  in  the  chief  thoroughfares,  almost  without  excep- 
tion decently  clad.  A longer  and  more  intimate  ac- 
quaintance with  Jerusalem,  however,  does  not  fail  to  cor- 
rect this  too  favorable  impression,  and  demonstrate  the 
existence  and  general  prevalence  of  the  poverty  and 
even  wretchedness  which  must  result  in  every  country 
from  oppression,  from  the  absence  of  trade,  and  the  ut- 
ter stagnation  of  all  branches  of  industry.  Considerable 
activity  is  displayed  in  the  bazaars,  which  are  supplied 
scantily,  like  those  of  other  Eastern  towns,  with  provis- 
ions, tobacco,  coarse  cottons,  and  other  articles  of  prime 
necessity.  A considerable  business  is  still  done  in  beads, 
crosses,  and  other  sacred  trinkets,  which  are  purchased 
to  a vast  amount  by  the  pilgrims  who  annually  throng 
the  holy  city.  The  support  and  even  the  existence  of 
the  considerable  population  of  Jerusalem  depend  upon 
this  transient  patronage  — a circumstance  to  which  a 
great  part  of  the  prevailing  poverty  and  degradation  is 
| justly  ascribed.  The  worthless  articles  employed  in 
j this  pitiful  trade  are,  almost  without  exception,  brought 
. from  other  places,  especially  Hebron  and  Bethlehem— 
| the  former  celebrated  for  its  baubles  of  glass,  the  latter 
! chictly  for  rosaries,  crucifixes,  and  other  toys  made  of 
mother-of-pearl,  olive-wood,  black  stones  from  the  Dead 
, Sea,  etc.  These  are  eagerly  bought  up  by  the  ignorant 
| pilgrims,  sprinkled  with  holy  water  by  the  priests,  or 
consecrated  by  some  other  religious  mummery,  and  car- 
ried off"  in  triumph  and  worn  as  ornaments  to  charm 
away  disease  and  misfortune,  and  probably  to  be  buried 
with  the  deluded  enthusiast  in  his  coffin,  as  a sure  pass- 
I port  to  eternal  blessedness.  "With  the  departure  of  the 
j swarms  of  pilgrims,  however,  even  this  poor  semblance 
of  active  industry  and  prosperity  deserts  the  city.  With 
the  exception  of  some  establishments  for  soap-making,  a 
tannery,  and  a very  few  weavers  of  coarse  cottons,  there 
| do  not  appear  to  be  any  manufacturers  properly  belong- 
ing to  the  place.  Agriculture  is  almost  equally  wretch- 
1 ed,  and  can  only  give  employment  to  a few  hundred 
people.  The  masses  really  seem  to  be  without  any  reg- 
ular employment.  A considerable  number,  especially 
of  the  Jews,  professedly  live  on  charity.  Many  Chris- 
tian pilgrims  annually  tind  their  way  hither  on  similar 
resources,  and  the  approaches  to  the  holy  places  are 
thronged  with  beggars,  who  in  piteous  tones  demand 
alms  in  the  name  ol'(  'hrist  and  the  blessed  Virgin.  The 
general  condition  of  the  population  is  that  of  abject  pov- 
erty. A few  Turkish  officials,  ecclesiastical,  civil,  and 
military;  some  remains  of  the  old  Mohammedan  aris- 
tocracy— once  powerful  and  rich,  but  now  much  impov- 
erished and  nearly  extinct;  together  with  a few  trades- 
i men  in  easy  circumstances,  form  almost  the  only  excep- 
j tions  to  the  prevailing  indigence.  There  is  not  a sin- 
gle broker  among  the  whole  population,  and  not  the 
! smallest  sum  can  he  obtained  on  the  best  bill3  of  ex- 
l change  short  of  Jaffa  or  Beirut. 


S60 


JERUSALEM 


JERUSALEM 


5.  The  population  of  Jerusalem  has  been  variously  I 
estimated  by  different  travellers,  some  making  it  as  I 
high  as  30,000,  others  as  low  as  12,000.  An  average 
of  these  estimates  would  make  it  somewhere  between 
12,000  and  15,000;  but  the  Egyptian  system  of  taxa- 
tion and  of  military  conscription  in  Syria  has  lately  fur- 
nished more  accurate  data  than  had  previously  been  ob- 
tainable, and  on  these  Dr.  Robinson  estimates  the  popu- 
lation at  not  more  than  11,500, distributed  thus: 

Mohammedans 4,500 

Jews 3,000 


11,000 

If  to  this  be  added  something  for  possible  omissions, 
and  the  inmates  of  the  convents,  the  standing  popula- 
tion, exclusive  of  the  garrison,  would  not  exceed  1 1,500. 
Dr.  Barclay  is  very  minute  in  regard  to  the  Christian 
sects,  and  his  details  show  that  Robinson  greatly  under- 
estimated them  when  he  gave  their  number  as  3500. 
Barclay  shows  them  to  be  in  all  4518  (p.  588).  The 
latest  estimate  of  the  population  is  that  of  Pierotti,  who 
gives  the  entire  sum  as  20,330,  subdivided  as  follows: 
Christian  sects,  5068;  Moslems  (Arabs  and  Turks),  7556 ; 
Jews,  7706. 

The  language  most  generally  spoken  among  all  class- 
es of  the  inhabitants  is  the  Arabic.  Schools  are  rare, 
and  consequently  facility  in  reading  is  not  often  met 
with.  The  general  condition  of  the  inhabitants  has  al- 
ready been  indicated. 

The  Turkish  governor  of  the  town  holds  the  rank  of 
pasha,  but  is  responsible,  to  the  pasha  of  Beirut.  The 
government  is  somewhat  milder  than  before  the  period 
of  the  Egyptian  dominion;  but  it  is  said  that  the  Jew- 
ish and  Christian  inhabitants  at  least  have  ample  cause 
to  regret  the  change  of  masters,  and  the  American  mis- 
sionaries lament  that  change  without  reserve  {Aw.  Lit. 
Repos,  for  1843).  Yet  the  Moslems  reverence  the  same 
spots  which  the  Jews  and  Christians  account  holy,  the 
holv  sepulchre  only  excepted;  and  this  exception  arises 
from  their  disbelief  that  Christ  was  crucified,  or  buried, 
or  rose  again.  Formerly  there  were  in  Palestine  monks 
of  the  Benedictine  and  Augustine  orders,  and  of  those 
of  St.  Basil  and  St.  Anthony;  but  since  1304  there  have 
been  none  but  Franciscans,  who  have  charge  of  the  Lat- 
in convent  and  the  holy  places.  They  resided  on  Mount 
Zion  till  A. I).  1561,  when  the  Turks  allowed  them  the 
monastery  of  St.  Salvador,  which  they  now  occupy. 
They  had  formerly  a handsome  revenue  out  of  all  Ro- 
man Catholic  countries,  but  these  sources  have  fallen 
off  since  the  French  Revolution,  and  the  establishment 
is  said  to  be  poor  and  deeply  in  debt.  The  expenses 
arise  from  the  duty  imposed  upon  the  convent  of  ■enter- 
taining pilgrims,  and  the  cost  of  maintaining  the  twen- 
ty convents  belonging  to  tbe  establishment  of  the  Terra 
Santa  is  estimated  at  40,000  Spanish  dollars  a year. 
Formerly  it  was  much  higher,  in  consequence  of  the 
heavy  exactions  of  the  Turkish  government.  Burek- 
hardt.  says  that  tbe  brotherhood  paid  annually  £12,000 
to  the  pasha  of  Damascus.  But  the  Egyptian  govern- 
ment relieved  them  from  these  heavy  charges,  and  im- 
posed instead  a regular  tax  on  the  property  possessed. 
For  the  buildings  and  lands  in  and  around  Jerusalem 
the  annual  tax  was  fixed  at  7000  piastres,  or  350  Span- 
ish dollars.  It.  is  probable  that  the  restored  Turkish 
government  has  not  yet,  in  this  respect,  recurred  to  its 
old  oppressions.  The  convent  contains  fifty  monks,  half 
Italians  and  half  Spaniards.  In  it  resides  the  intemlant 
or  the  principal  of  all  the  convents,  with  the  rank  of  ab- 
bot,  and  the  title  of  guardian  of  Mount  Zion  and  custos 
of  the  Holy  Land.  lie  is  always  an  Italian,  and  has 
charge  of  all  tbe  spiritual  affairs  of  the  Roman  Catho- 
lics in  the  Holy  Land.  There  is  also  a president  or  vi- 
car, who  takes  the  place  of  the  guardian  in  case  of  ab- 
sence or  death:  he  was  formerly  a Frenchman,  but  is 
now  cither  an  Italian  or  Spaniard.  The  procurator, 
who  manages  their  temporal  affairs,  is  always  a Span- 
iard. A council,  called  Diseretorium,  composed  of  these 


officials  and  three  other  monks,  has  the  general  man- 
agement of  both  spiritual  and  temporal  matters.  Much 
of  the  attention  of  the  order  is  occupied,  and  much  of 
its  expense  incurred,  in  entertaining  pilgrims  and  in  the 
distribution  of  alms.  The  native  Roman  Catholics  live 
around  the  convent,  on  which  they  are  wholly  depend- 
ant. They  are  native  Arabs,  and  are  said  to  be  de- 
scended from  converts  in  the  times  of  the  Crusades. 

There  is  a Greek  patriarch  of  Jerusalem,  but  he  usu- 
ally resides  at  Constantinople,  and  is  represented  in  the 
holy  city  by  one  or  more  vicars,  who  are  bishops  resid- 
ing in  the  great  convent  near  the  church  of  the  Holy 
Sepulchre.  At  present  the  vicars  are  the  bishops  of 
Lydda,  Nazareth,  and  Kerek  (Petra),  assisted  bv  the 
other  bishops  resident  in  the  convent.  In  addition  to 
thirteen  monasteries  in  Jerusalem,  they  possess  the  con- 
vent of  the  Holy  Cross,  near  Jerusalem;  that  of  St. He- 
lena, between  Jerusalem  and  Bethlehem ; and  that  of 
St.  John,  between  Jerusalem  and  the  Dead  Sea.  All 
the  monks  of  the  convents  are  foreigners.  The  Chris- 
tians of  the  Greek  rite  who  are  not  monks  are  all  native 
Arabs,  with  their  native  priests,  who  are  allowed  to  per- 
form the  Church  services  in  their  mother  tongue — the 
Arabic. 

The  Armenians  in  Jerusalem  have  a patriarch,  with 
three  convents  and  100  monks.  They  have  also  con- 
vents at  Bethlehem,  Ramleh,  and  Jaffa.  Few  of  the 
Armenians  are  natives:  they  are  mostly  merchants,  and 
among  the  wealthiest  inhabitants  of  the  place,  and  their 
convent  in  Jerusalem  is  deemed  the  richest  in  the  Le- 
vant. Their  church  of  St.  James,  upon  Mount  Zion,  is 
very  showy  in  its  decorations,  but  void  of  taste.  The 
Coptic  Christians  at  Jerusalem  arc  only  some  monks  re- 
siding in  the  convent  of  es-Sultan,  on  the  north  side  of 
the  pool  of  Ilezekiah.  There  is  also  a convent  of  the 
Abyssinians,  and  one  1 elonging  to  the  Jacobite  Syrians. 

The  estimate  of  the  number  of  the  Jews  in  Jerusalem 
at  3000  is  given  by  Dr.  Robinson  on  the  authority  of 
Mr.  Nieolavson,  the  resident  missionary  to  the  Jews; 
yet  in  the  following  year  (1839)  the  Scottish  deputation 
set  them  down  at  six  or  seven  thousand  on  the  some 
authority.  (See  Dr.  Barclay’s  estimate  above.)  They 
inhabit  a distinct  quarter  of  the  town,  between  Mount 
Zion  and  Mount  Moriah.  This  is  the  worst  and  dirtiest 
part  of  the  holy  city,  and  that  in  which  the  plague  never 
fails  to  make  its  first  appearance.  Few  of  tbe  Jerusalem 
Jews  are  natives,  and  most  of  them  come  from  foreign 
parts  to  die  in  the  city  of  their  fathers’  sepulchres.  The 
greater  proportion  of  them  are  from  different  parts  of 
the  Levant,  and  appear  to  be  mostly  of  Spanish  and 
Polish  origin.  Few  are  from  Germany,  or  understand 
the  German  language.  They  are,  for  the  most  part, 
wretchedly  poor,  and  depend  in  a great  degree  for  their 
subsistence  upon  the  contributions  of  their  brethren  in 
different  countries.  These  contributions  vary  ecu  sid 
erablv  in  amount  in  different  years,  and  often  occa- 
sion much  dissatisfaction  in  their  distribution  (see  the 
Xarratire  of  the  Scottish  deputation,  p.  148).  An  ef- 
fort, however,  is  now  making  in  Europe  for  the  promo- 
tion of  Jewish  agriculture  in  Palestine,  and  a society 
formed  for  that  purpose,  under  whose  auspices  several 
Jewish  families  have  emigrated  to  their  sacred  father- 
land,  and  are  engaged  in  the  culture  of  the  productions 
for  which  the  soil  was  anciently  so  famous.  Prominent 
among  these  philanthropic  exertions  are  those  of  Sir 
Moses  Montefiore,  of  London,  who  has  established  a farm 
in  tbe  vicinity  of  Jerusalem  for  the  benefit  of  his  Jewish 
brethren  (Benjamin,  Right  Years  in  Asia  and  Africa, 
p.  34).  Under  the  reforms  and  religious  toleration  in- 
troduced by  the  present  sultan  an  amelioration  of  the 
condition  of  the  Jewish  and  Christian  inhabitants  of  Je- 
rusalem may  be  expected.  It  should  also  be  added  that 
European  enterprise  has  projected  a railway  from  Jaffa 
to  Jerusalem  as  one  of  the  fruits  of  the  alliance  during 
the  late  war,  and  on  its  completion  an  additional  impulse 
will  doubtless  be  given  to  this  ancient  metropolis  by  the 
facilities  of  travel  and  transportation  thus  afforded. 


JERUSALEM,  COUNCILS  OF  861 


JERUSALEM,  NEW 


6.  The  most  recent  and  complete  works  on  modern  Je- 
rusalem are  Dr.  Titus  Tobler’s  Zwei  Wicker  Topogruphie 
von  Jerusalem  uml  seine  Umgebnngen  (13erl.lH53.et  seq.), 
which  contains  (vol.  i,  p.  xi-civ)  a nearly  full  list  of  all 
works  hv  travellers  and  others  on  the  subject,  with  brief 
criticisms  (continued  in  an  appendix  to  his  Dritte  Wan- 
der ung,  Gotha,  1851),  and  greatly  enlarged  in  his  Jiiblio- 
grupliia  Geogruphicti  Palwsthuv,  Lpz.  1867),  and  Prof. 
Sopp's  Jerusalem  uml  das  lle'dige  Lund  (Milucheu,  1864, 
2 vols.),  which  almost  exhaustively  treats  the  sacred 
topography  from  the  Roman  Catholic  point  of  view.  The 
city  has  been  more  or  less  described  by  nearly  all  who 
have  visited  the  Holy  Land ; see  especially  Harriett's 
ir«/fa  about  Jerusalem  (Lond.  18-12).  The  map  of  Van 
de  Velde  (Gotha,  1838),  with  a memoir  by  Tobler,  has 
remained  the  most  exact  one  of  the  present  city  till  the 
publication  of  the  English  Ordnance  Surrey  (London, 
18(34-5,  1866;  N.  V.,  1871),  which  contains  minute  de- 
tails. The  most,  perfect  pictorial  representation  i the 
Panorama  of  Jerusalem,  taken  from  the  Mount  of  Ol- 
ives, in  three  large  aquatint  engravings,  with  a key,  pub- 
lished in  Germany  (Munich,  1830).  Many  new  and  in- 
teresting details  have  been  furnished  by  the  scientific 
surveys  and  subterranean  explorations  of  the  engineers 
lately  employed  under  the  auspices  of  the  “Palestine 
Exploration  Fund”  of  England,  the  results  of  which  are 
detailed  in  their  successive  Quarterly  Statements,  and 
popularly  summed  up  in  their  volume  entitled  Jerusalem 
Recovered  (Lond.  and  X.  Y.  1871,  8vo).  See  Palestine. 

JERUSALEM,  COUNCILS  OF  ( Concilia  Uieroso- 
lymitana).  Much  depends,  in  determining  the  number 
of  councils  held,  on  the  significance  of  the  name.  See 
the  article  Council.  We  have  room  here  only  for  the 
principal  councils  held  at  Jerusalem.  They  are,  I.  The 
first  ecclesiastical  council  mentioned  in  Acts  xv,  which 
is  believed  to  have  been  held  during  the  year  47,  under 
James  the  Less,  bishop  of  Jerusalem,  in  consequence  of 
the  dispute  in  the  Church  ,of  Antioch  on  the  propriety 
of  dispensing  with  circumcision  (probably  provoked  by 
Judaizers).  By  the  decisions  of  this  council,  the  faith- 
ful were  commanded  to  abstain  (!)  from  meats  which 
had  been  offered  to  idols  (so  as  not  even  to  appear  to 
countenance  the  worship  of  the  heathen),  (2)  from  blood 
and  strangled  things  (probably  to  avoid  giving  offence 
to  the  prejudices  of  the  Jewish  converts),  and  (3)  from 
fornication  (the  prevailing  vice  of  the  Gentiles).  See 
Council,  Apostolical,  at  Jerusalem.  II.  In  335, 
when  many  bishops  had  met  in  the  sacred  city  to  con- 
secrate the  church  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre,  Constantine 
directed  that  an  effort  should  be  made  to  heal  the  divi- 
sions of  the  Church.  It  was  by  this  council  that  Arius 
was  restored  to  fellowship,  and  allowed  to  return  to  Al- 
exandria. Eusebius  ( Yit.  ( ’oust.  iv.  47)  pronounces  it  the 
largest  he  knew  next  to  the  Council  of  Nice,  with  which 
he  even  compares  it.  III.  One  in  349,  by  Maximus, 
bishop  of  Jerusalem,  and  some  sixty  bishops,  upon  the 
return  of  Athanasius  (q.v.)  to  Alexandria,  after  the  death 
of  Gregory.  They  rescinded  the  decree  which  had  been 
published  against  him,  and  drew  up  a synodal  letter 
to  the  Church  in  Alexandria.  IV.  Held  in  399,  in  con- 
sequence of  a synodal  letter  from  Tlieophilns  of  Alexan- 
dria on  the  decrees  passed  in  council  against  the  Origen-  j 
ists.  They  concurred  in  the  judgment,  and  stated  their 
resolution  not  to  hold  communion  with  any  who  denied 
the  equality  of  the  Son  and  the  Father.  See  Orioen  ; 
Trinity.  V.  In  453,  on  Juvenal's  restoration,  by  the 
emperor  Marcian,  to  the  bishopric  of  Jerusalem  (from 
which  he  had  been  deposed  on  account  of  his  concur- 
rence in  the  oppression  of  Flavianus  in  the  Latrocinium 
at  Ephesus),  and  the  expulsion  of  Theodosius,  a Euty- 
chian  heretic,  who  had  become  bishop  by  prejudicing  , 
the  empress  Eudoxia  and  the  monks  against  Juvenal  (q. 
v.).  VI.  Held  in  518,  under  the  patriarch  John  III, 
and  composed  of  thirty-three  bishops.  They  addressee! 
a synodal  letter  to  John  of  Constantinople  indorsing 
the  decisions  of  the  council  of  that  city,  and  condemned 
the  Severians  and  Eutychians.  VII.  About  536,  under  j 


I patriarch  Peter,  attended  by  forty-five  bishops.  They 
indorsed  the  acts  of  the  Council  of  Constantinople  (536) 

\ concerning  the  deposition  of  the  Monothelite  patriarch 
Anthymus  and  the  election  of  Menai  in  his  stead.  The 
Aeephalists  were  also  condemned  by  them.  VIII.  Held 
. in  553,  where  the  acts  of  the  fifth  oecumenical  council  of 
Constantinople  were  received  by  all  the  bishops  of  Pal- 
estine with  the  exception  of  Alexander  of  Abilene,  who 
was  therefor  deposed.  IX.  In  634.  In  this  council  the 
patriarch  Soplironius  addressed  a synodal  letter  to  the 
different  patriarchs,  informing  them  of  his  election,  and 
urging  them  to  oppose  the  Monotlielites.  X.  In  1443, 
| under  Arsenins  of  Caesarea,  ordering  that  no  ordination 
of  a clerk  should  be  considered  valid  if  performed  by  a 
bishop  in  communion  with  Home,  unless  the  clerk  proved 
to  the  orthodox  bishops  his  adhesion  to  the  faith  of  the 
Greek  Church.  XI.  By  far  the  most  important  council 
held  there  was  that  of  1672.  It  was  convened  by  Dosi- 
tliens,  at  that  time  patriarch  of  Jerusalem.  There  were 
present  fifty-three  prelates  of  his  diocese,  including  the 
ex-patriarch  Neetarius;  six  metropolitans,  archiman- 
j orates,  presbyters,  deacons,  and  monks.  The  council  call- 
| ed  itself  (unrig  ( pxoCoKiag  i)  <x7ru\oyia.  Its  main  ob- 
ject was  to  eradicate  Calvinism, which  threatened  to  find 
j many  adherents  amongst  this  branch  of  the  Eastern 
Church,  into  which  it  had  been  introduced  by  Cyrillus 
Lucaris.  The  declarations  of  belief  put  forth  by  this 
| council  gave  rise  to  considerable  trouble  in  the  Eastern 
| Church.  Many  charged  it  with  Homanistic  tendencies, 
j especially  because  it  avoided  all  utterance  on  points  of 
difference  between  the  two  churches;  and  it  was  claim- 
ed, also,  that  their  confession  directly  opposed  the  con- 
cession of  Cyril.  (Consult  Harduin,  xi,  179;  Kimmel, 
Libri  Symbolici  eccles.  Orient.)  See  VI ansi,  Suppl.  i,  coll. 
271  ; Baronins,  iv,  Cone.  p.  1588;  v,  Cone.  p.  275,  739; 
Mansi,  note  to  Ravnaldus,  ix,  420 ; Landon,  Man.  Coun- 
cils, p.  271  sq. ; Herzog,  Real-Encyklopadie,  vi,  501  sq. 

JERUSALEM  CREED.  The  early  churches  of  the 
sacred  city  are  now  generally  acknowledged  to  have 
had  a creed  of  their  own,  which  some  believe  to  have 
been  the  production  of  Cyril  of  Jerusalem,  while  others 
claim  that  it  originated  before  his  time.  It  has  been 
preserved  in  the  catechetical  discourses  of  Cyril,  and 
reads  as  follows  : “ I believe  in  one  God,  the  Father  Al- 
mighty, maker  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  of  all  things 
visible  and  invisible ; and  in  one  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the 
only-begotten  Son  of  God,  begotten  of  the  Father  before 
all  worlds;  very  God  by  whom  all  things  were  made, 
who  was  incarnate  and  made  man,  crucified  and  buried, 
and  the  third  day  ascended  into  the  heavens,  and  sat 
down  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Father,  and  is  coming  to 
judge  quick  and  dead.  And  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  the 
Paraclete,  who  spake  by  the  prophets ; and  in  one  holy 
catholic  Church  ; and  resurrection  of  the  flesh  ; and  in 
life  everlasting.”  See  J library  of  the  Fathers  (Oxford 
transl.  1838),  ii.  52  sq.;  Migne, Patrologia  Grceca, xxxiii, 
505  sq. ; Riddle,  Christian  Antiquities,  p.474. 

JERUSALEM,  FRIENDS  OF,  is  the  name  of  a fa- 
natical sect  in  Wiirtemberg  who  claim  it  to  be  the  duty 
of  the  believers  of  the  Bible  to  rebuild  the  Temple  at 
Jerusalem,  and  to  congregate  there,  according  to  Ezek. 
xl  and  sq. 

JERUSALEM,  KNIGHTS  OF.  The  possession  of 
Jerusalem  by  a Christian  power  during  the  period  of 
the  Latin  kings  (see  above,  history  of  Jerusalem),  gave 
birth  to  the  two  great  orders  of  knighthood,  that  of  the 
Temple,  and  that  of  St.John  of  Jerusalem;  the  former 
of  which  was  distributed  throughout  Europe,  and  the 
latter— known  also  under  the  name  of  Knights  Hospi- 
tallers (q.  v.) — first  fixed  themselves  at  Rhodes,  and  af- 
terwards dwindled  down  into  the  little  society  of  the 
Knights  of  Malta  (q.  v.).  The  Teutonic  order  sprung 
up  at  Acre  in  1191,  and  its  grand  masters,  who  became 
hereditary,  were  the  ancestors  of  the  house  of  Branden- 
burg and  the  kings  of  Prussia.  See  Templars. 

JERUSALEM,  NEW,  the  symbolic  name  of  the  Chris- 
tian Church ; also  called  “ the  Bride,  the  Lamb’s  wife” 


JERUSALEM 


JERUSALEM  8 

(Rev.  xxi,  2-21 ; iii,  12).  The  apostle,  from  the  sum- 
mit of  a high  mountain,  beheld,  in  a pictorial  symbol 
or  scenic  representation,  a city  resplendent  with  celes- 
tial brightness,  which  seemed  to  descend  from  the  heav- 
ens to  the  earth.  It  was  built  upon  terraces,  one  rising 
above  another,  each  terrace  having  its  distinct  wall  sup- 
porting or  encircling  it : and  thus,  although  each  wall 
was  only  144  cubits  = 252  feet  high,  the  height  of  the 
whole  city  was  equal  to  its  diameter.  This  was  stated 
to  be  a square  of  about  400  miles;  or  12,000  stadia  = 
about  1600  miles  in  circumference— of  course  a mystical 
number,  denoting  that  the  city  was  capable  of  holding 
almost  countless  myriads  of  inhabitants.  In  its  general 
form,  the  symbolic  city  presents  a striking  resemblance 
to  that  of  the  new  city  in  Ezck.  xl-xlviii.  The  picto- 
rial symbol  must  be  regarded  as  the  representation  not 
of  a place  or  state,  but  of  the  Church  as  a society , the 
“body  of  Christ”  (Eph.  v,  23-30;  Gal.  iv,  26).  As  Je- 
rusalem and  Zion  are  often  used  for  the  inhabitants  and 
faithful  worshippers,  so  the  new  Jerusalem  is  emblemat- 
ical of  the  Church  of  God,  part  on  earth  and  part  in 
heaven.  To  suppose  the  invisible  world  to  be  exclu- 
sively referred  to  would  deprive  the  contrast  between 
the  Law  and  the  Gospel  economy,  Sinai  and  Zion,  of  its 
appositeness  and  force.  Moreover,  the  distinction  be- 
tween “the  general  assembly  of  the  enrolled  citizens,” 
and  “ the  spirits  of  the  just  made  perfect”  (Heb.  xii,  22- 
24),  can  be  explained  only  by  interpreting  the  former 
of  the  Church  militant,  or  the  body  of  Christ  on  earth, 
and  the  latter  of  the  Church  triumphant  in  heaven. 
Thus  we  see  why  the  New  Jerusalem  was  beheld,  like 
Jacob’s  ladder,  extending  from  earth  to  heaven.  See 
Ziox. 

JERUSALEM,  NEW,  CHURCH.  See  New-Jkku- 

SALEM  Cl! ElJClt. 

JERUSALEM,  PATRIARCHATE  OF.  See  Patri- 
archate of  Jerusalem. 

JERU SALEM,  the  new  SEE  of  St.  James  in.  The 
city,  sacred  alike  to  the  Jew,  the  Gentile,  and  the  Turk,  ' 
never  felt  the  influence  of  Protestant  teachings  until  the 
opening  of  the  present  tera,  and,  strange  to  say,  the  des- 
titute condition  of  the  Jews  first  caused  the  appoint- 
ment of  two  missionaries  to  Palestine.  These  were  sent 
in  IS  1 8 by  the  North  American  Missionary  Society,  of  ! 
Huston.  In  Europe,  no  action  was  taken  until  1832  : in  ■ 
this  year  the  London  Jewish  Missionary  Society  also  ; 
entered  the  field.  In  1840,  at  last,  the  expedition  of 
the  great  European  Powers  to  the  East  gave  rise  to  the  ! 
hope  that,  though  Protestantism  might  not  immediate- 
ly secure  a strong  foothold,  the  power  of  the  Moham- 
medans at  least  would  be  broken,  and  an  opening  be 
made  for  Christian  influences  on  the  inhabitants  of  the 
sacred  land.  The  great  ambition  of  king  Frederick  i 
William  IV.  of  Prussia  was  to  establish  a Protestant 
bishopric  in  the  holy  city;  and  when,  at  the  ratification  ' 
(July  15, 1840)  of  the  treaty  between  the  Christian  and  i 
Mussulman  Powers,  he  failed  to  obtain  the  desired  sup- 
port for  his  proposition  in  favor  of  entire  religious  liber- 
ty for  Eastern  Christians,  he  dispatched  a special  embas- 
sy to  the  queen  of  England,  the  archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury, and  the  bishop  of  London  (recognising  in  them 
the  spiritual  heads  of  the  English  Church),  and  pro- 
posed a plan  for  these  two  great  Protestant  nations — 
Prussia  and  England — to  establish  and  support  in  com- 
mon a Protestant  bishopric  in  Jerusalem,  which  should 
be  equally  shared  in  (i.  e.  alternately)  bv  both  the  Ger-  j 
man  Evangelical  and  the  Anglican  churches.  “ It  was 
anticipated,”  says  Dr.  Ilagenbach  ( Church  Hist.  18 tli  and 
VMh  Cent,  ii,  397  sq.),  “that  by  this  means  Protestant- 
ism would  be  more  firmly  established,  and  an  important 
centre  formed  for  missionary  labors.  While  Prussia  had 
formally  united  with  England  in  the  attainment  of 
great  ecclesiastical  ends,  it  now  seemed  that  England, 
by  the  position  which  Providence  had  given  her,  was 
adapted  to  the  realization  of  this  plan ; and  the  influ- 
ence which  she  had  gained  as  a European  Power  in  the 
East  and  in  Jerusalem,  encouraged  the  hope  without. 


o 

while  it  was  inwardly  strengthened  by  the  fixed  forms 
of  her  ecclesiastical  character,  and  by  the  halo  of  her 
episcopal  dignity.”  Of  course,  people  differed  in  their 
opinion  concerning  the  proposition.  There  were  many 
eminent  German  theologians  who  doubted  the  wisdom 
of  affiliating  with  the  English  Church,  which  they  de- 
cried as  one  of  exterior  formalism,  etc.,  while,  amongst 
the  English,  many  hesitated  to  cast  in  their  lot  with 
German  rationalistic  divines.  But  the  plan  was,  after 
all,  adopted  by  the  higher  clergy  of  England,  as  well  it 
might  be,  for  it  secured  to  them  not  only  the  first  se- 
lection, but  Prussia  also  stipulated  that  the  bishopric  to 
be  formed  at  the  Church  of  St.  James,  in  Jerusalem, 
should  be  after  the  plan  of  the  Established  Church  in 
England,  and  that  the  stationed  bishop,  though  he  be  a 
German,  should  receive  his  appropriate  consecration  at 
the  hands  of  the  primate  of  the  Anglican  Church  (the 
archbishop  of  Canterbury),  and  subscribe  to  the  39  arti- 
cles of  the  Establishment.  The  plea  which  the  English 
clergy  made  on  its  adoption  was  that  it  gave  rise  to  the 
hope  of  bringing  about  by  this  means  a reconciliation 
between  the  two  denominations : the  archbishop  even 
expressed,  on  the  occasion,  the  hope  that  this  would  lead 
to  “a  unity  of  discipline  as  well  as  of  doctrine  between 
our  own  Church  and  the  less  perfectly  constituted  of  the 
Protestant  churches  of  Europe.”  The  endowment  of 
the  bishopric  was  fixed  at  £30,000  sterling,  to  insure  the 
bishop  a yearly  income  of  £1200.  The  bishop  was  to 
be  named  alternately  by  England  and  Prussia,  the  pri- 
mate of  England,  however,  hairing  the  right  to  veto  the 
nomination  of  the  latter.  The  protection  to  be  afforded 
to  the  German  Evangelists  is  provided  for  by  the  ordi- 
nances of  1841-2,  containing  the  following  specifications : 
1st.  The  bishop  will  take  the  German  congregation  un- 
der his  protection,  and  afford  them  all  the  assistance  in 
his  power.  2d.  He  will  be  assisted  by  competent  Ger- 
man ministers,  ordained  according  to  the  ritual  of  th«* 
Church  of  England,  and  required  to  yield  him  obedi- 
ence. 3d.  The  liturgy  is  to  be  taken  from  the  received 
liturgies  of  the  Prussian  Church,  carefully  revised  by 
the  primate.  4th.  The  rite  of  confirmation  is  to  be  ad- 
ministered according  to  the  form  of  the  English  Church. 
In  the  mean  while,  an  act  of  Parliament,  under  date  of 
Oct.  5, 1841,  decided  that  persons  could  be  consecrated 
bishops  of  the  Church  of  England  in  foreign  countries 
without  thereby  becoming  subjects  of  the  crown,  but 
that  such  would  also  take  the  oath  of  allegiance  to  the 
archbishop,  in  order  that  they,  and  such  deacons  and’ 
ministers  as  they  might  ordain,  may  have  the  right  to 
fulfil  the  same  functions  in  England  and  Ireland.  In 
consequence,  Dr.  M'Caul,  of  Ireland,  having  declined  the 
appointment.  Dr.  Michael  Salomon  Alexander,  professor 
of  Hebrew  and  Rabbinical  literature  at  Christ’s  College, 
London,  a converted  Jew,  and  formerly  a Prussian  sub- 
ject (having  been  bom  in  Polish  Prussia  in  1799),  was 
made  first  incumbent  of  the  new  bishopric.  He  died 
Nov.  23, 1845,  near  Cairo.  His  successor  was  Samuel 
Gobat,  of  Cremine,  canton  Berne,  a student  of  the  Basle 
Mission  House,  nominated  by  Prussia,  and  experienced 
for  missionary  labors  by  his  residence  in  Abyssinia. 
Since  then,  the  news  from  Jerusalem  has  been  gratify- 
ing. Jan.  21, 1849,  a newly-created  Evangelical  church, 
called  Christ  Church,  situated  on  Mount  Zion,  was  dedi- 
cated. The  Gospel  is  preached  there  in  Hebrew,  En- 
glish, German,  French,  Spanish,  and  Arabic.  Belonging 
to  it  are  a burial-ground;  a school  attended  by  the  chil- 
dren of  Jews,  Mohammedans,  and  different  Christian 
denominations ; a hospital  for  the  Jews,  in  which  they 
have  an  opportunity  of  hearing  the  Scriptures;  a hos- 
pital for  proselytes,  etc.,  which  is  attended  to  by  deacon- 
esses; a house  of  industry  for  proselytes,  and  an  indus- 
trial school  for  Jewish  females.  The  number  of  Jewish 
converts  averages  from  seven  to  nine  annually.  In  con- 
sequence of  the  firman  granting  to  Protestants  the  same 
rights  as  are  possessed  by  other  churches,  they  have  es- 
tablished small  schools  in  Bethlehem,  Jaffa,  Nablus,  and 
Nazareth. 


JERUSALEM 


863 


JESIIOIIAIAII 


For  accurate  accounts,  see  Herzog,  Real-EncyHop.  vi, 
503  sq. ; Abeken,  Das  eranyelische  Bisthum  in  Jerusalem 
(Berlin,  1842).  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jerusalem,  Joiiann  Friedrich  Wilhelm,  a Ger- 
man theologian— one  of  the  best  apologetic  ami  practi- 
cal theologians  of  the  last  century,  was  born  at  Osna- 
briick  Nov.  22, 1709,  ami  was  educated  at  the  Universities 
of  Leipzig  ami  Wittenberg;  at  the  latter  he  took  his  mas- 
ter’s degree.  Disinclined  to  enter  the  ministry,  for  which 
he  had  prepared  himself,  and  too  young  to  enter  the 
ranks  of  academical  instructors,  he  went  to  the  Low 
Countries,  and  studied  at  Leyden,  where  he  enjoyed  the 
counsels  of  such  men  as  Albert  Schultens,  l’eter  Bur- 
man,  etc.  lie  sought  and  secured  the  friendship  of  the 
leading  minds  of  the  different  Christian  denominations 
of  Holland,  and  learned  to  appreciate  men  out  of  the 
pale  of  his  own  band.  After  his  return  to  his  native 
place,  still  only  twenty-four  years  old,  he  received  the 
most  flattering  offers,  one  of  which  was  a position  at  the 
newly-created  University  of  Gottingen,  which  he  in- 
clined to  accept.  Fearing  that  he  might  not  be  thor- 
oughly prepared,  he  again  set  out  on  a journey,  this  time 
to  spend  a year  of  further  preparatory  study  in  England, 
more  especially  at  Loudon.  He  there  became  acquaint- 
ed with  the  master  theologians  of  that  age  and  country. 
Thomas  Sherlock,  Daniel  Waterland,  Samuel  Clarke  free- 
ly admitted  the  young  scholar  to  their  studies,  and  so 
interested  became  he  in  English  theology  that  he  re- 
mained there  three  years  and  declined  to  go  to  Gottin- 
gen. In  1740  lie  returned  to  Germany,  and  was  appoint- 
ed tutor  and  preacher  of  prince  Charles  William  Ferdi- 
nand of  Brunswick.  In  1743  he  was  appointed  provost 
of  the  monasteries  of  St.  Crueis  and  JEgidi ; in  1749  he 
was  made  abbot  of  Marienthal,  and  in  1752  abbot  of  the 
convent  of  Biddagsliauscn,  a theological  training-school 
of  the  Brunswick  ministry,  with  which  he  remained  as- 
sociated for  two  scores  of  years,  and  in  which  he  labored 
earnestly  to  promote  especially  the  religious  spirit  of  the 
young  preachers.  Indeed,  so  well  were  his  labors  per- 
formed, that  a late  biographer  of  Jerusalem  is  found  to 
say  that  in  no  small  measure  the  religious  spirit  of 
Brunswick  of  our  day  is  due  to  the  work  which  he  per- 
formed at  this  institution.  In  1771  he  became  vice- 
president  of  the  consistory  of  Wolfcnbtittel.  In  the  lat- 
ter part  of  his  life  he  was  severely  afflicted  by  the  suicide 
of  his  son  (1775),  who  had  gone  to  Wetzlar  to  practice 
law.  Jerusalem  died  Sept.  2, 1789.  His  most  important 
work,  Betrachtungen  ii.  < l.fornehmsten  Warheiten  der  Re- 
ligion, written  for  the  instruction  of  the  hereditary  prince 
of  Brunswick  (Braunsch.  17(18-79,  1785,  1795,  2 vols.), 
has  been  translated  into  most  European  languages.  Of 
his  other  works,  we  notice  two  collections  of  sermons 
(Braunsch.  1745-53,  1788-89) ; for  a full  list,  see  Dbring’s 
1).  deutschen  Kanzelredner  d.  18  v.  19  Jahrhunderts ; Je- 
rusalems Sclbsibiographie  (Braun.  1791). — Herzog,  Real- 
Encyklop.  s.  v.;  Jbcher,  Gelehrt.  Lex,  (Adelung’s  Adden- 
da), s.  v. ; Dorner,  Geschichfe  der  Protest.  Theolog.  bk.  ii, 
divis.  iii,  § 1 ; Tholuck,  Geseh.  des  Rationalism  us,  pt.  i ; 
Hurst's  Ilagenbach,  Ch.  Hist.  18 th  and  19 th  Cent,  i (see 
Index) ; Zeitsehr.  hist.  Tlieol.  18(19,  p.  530  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Jeru'sha  (Hcb.  Yerusha',  possession  ; Sept. 

'Itpovad),  the  daughter  of  Zadok,  and  mother  of  king 
Jothan,  consequently  wife  of  Uzziah,  whoni  she  appears 
to  have  survived  (2  Kings  xv,  33);  written  Jerusiiaii 
(!T2:n%  Yerushali',  id .;  Sept,  'itpovad)  in  the  parallel 
passage  (2  Chron.  xxvii,  1).  B.C.  806. 

Jeru'shah  (2  Chron.  xxvii,  1).  See  Jerusha. 

Jesa'i'ah  [many  Jesai’uh^  («,  Neh.  xi,7,  6,1  Chron. 
iii,  21).  See  Jeshaiaii. 

Jeshai'ah  [many  Jeshai'ah]  (Hebrew  Yeshayah', 
deliverance  of  Jthorah;  1 Chron.  iii,  21 ; Ezra 
viii,  7, 19 ; Nch.  xi,  7 ; elsewhere  in  the  paragogic  form 
simr::?,  Yeshaya’hu),  the  name  of  several  men. 

1.  (Sept.  Xlnaiag  v.  r.  'Iwtriag,  Vulg.  Isajas,  Author. 
Vers.  “ Jesbaiah.”)  Son  of  Rehabiali,  and  father  of  Jo- 


ram,  of  the  Lcvitical  famity  of  Eliezcr  (1  Chron.  xxvi, 
25).  B.C.  considerably  ante  1014. 

2.  (Sept.  Tffai  v.  r.  'I ataij  ; ’Irriuij  v.  r.  T lomd  ; Vulg. 
Jesejas,  Auth.  Vers.  “Jesbaiah.”)  One  of  the  sons  of 
Jeduthun,  appointed  under  him  among  the  sacred  harp- 
ers (1  Chron.  xxv,  3),  at  the  head  of  the  eighth  divis- 
ion of  Lcvitical  musicians  (vcr.  15).  B.C.  1014. 

3.  See  Isaiah. 

4.  (Septuag.  ‘Uaatia  v.  r.  'itaiti,  Vulg.  Isaja,  Auth. 
Vers.  “ Jcsaiah.”)  Father  of  Ithiel,  a Benjamite,  whose 
descendant  Sallu  resided  in  Jerusalem  after  the  exile 
(Nch.  ix,  7).  B.C.  long  ante  539. 

5.  (Septuagint  ’hotia  v.  r.  '1  taiag,  Vulgate  Jesejas, 
Auth.  Vers.  “Jcsaiah.”)  The  second  of  the  three  sons 
of  llananiah,  son  of  Zerubbabel  (l  Chron.  iii,  21;  see 
Strong’s  Harmony  and  Expos,  of  the  Gosp.  p.  17).  B.C. 
post  536. 

6.  (Septuag.  'Uaata  v.  r.  T traiag,  Vulg.  Isajas,  Auth. 
Vers.  “Jesbaiah.”)  Son  of  Athaliah,  of  the  “sons”  of 
Elam,  who  returned  with  70  male  relatives  from  Baby- 
lon (Ezra  viii,  7).  B.C.  459. 

7.  (Sept.  * I crata , Vulg.  Isajas,  Author.  Vers.  “ Jeshai- 
ah.”)  A Lcvilc  of  the  family  of  Merari,  who  accom- 
panied Ilashabiah  to  the  river  Ahava,  on  the  way  from 
Babylon  to  Palestine  (Ezra  viii,  19).  B.C.  459. 

Jesha'nah  [many  Jesli'anah ] (I lib.  Ycshcmah', 
old,  q.  d.  n«A«nj7ro\ic,' ; Sept,  ’\tavvd  v.  r.  *Avu), 
a city  of  the  kingdom  of  Israel,  taken  with  its  suburbs 
from  Jeroboam  by  Abijah,  and  mentioned  as  situated 
near  Bethel  and  Ephraim  (2  Chron.  xiii,  19).  It  ap- 
pears to  be  the  “village  Isanas ” (’locn'ag),  mentioned 
by  Josephus  as  the  scene  of  Herod’s  encounter  with 
Pappus,  the  general  of  Antigonus,  in  Samaria  (.4  nt.  xiv, 
15, 12 ; compare  ’ laavct , Ant.  viii,  11,3).  It  is  not  men- 
tioned by  Jerome  in  the  Onomasticon,  unless  we  accept 
the  conjecture  of  Reland  (Pal erst.  p.  861),  that  “ Jcthaba, 
urbs  antiqua  Judaxe”  is  at  once  a corruption  and  a trans- 
lation of  the  name  Jeshana.  According  to  Schwarz 
(Palestine,  p.  158),  it  is  the  modern  village  al -Sanin,  two 
miles  west  of  Bethel ; but  no  such  name  appears  on  Zim- 
mermann’s  map,  unless  it  be  Ain  Sinia,  a village  sur- 
rounded by  vineyards  and  fruit-trees,  with  vegetable 
gardens  watered  from  a well,  situated  at  a fork  of  the 
valley  about  a mile  N.E.  of  Jufna  (Robinson’s  Researeh- 
es,  iii,  80), 

Jeshar'elah  [some  Jeshare'lak ] (lleb.  Yeshare'- 
lah,  upright  towards  God;  some  copies  read 

Yesare’lah  ; Septuag.  ’lapajXd  v.  r.  ’latpojX; 
Vulg.  Isreehi),  the  head  of  the  seventh  division  of  Le- 
vitical  musicians  (1  Chron.  xxv,  14);  elsewhere  called 
by  the  equivalent  name  Asahelaii  (vcr.  2).  B.C.  1014. 

Jesheb'eab  (Hob.  Yeshebab',  seat  of  his 

father ; Sept.  ‘lafiadX  v.  r.  ’UofiadX,  Vulg.  Ishbaab), 
the  head  of  the  fourteenth  division  of  priests  as  ar- 
ranged by  David  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  13).  B.C.  1014. 

Je  sher  (Hcb.  Ye'sher,  ***1*^,  upright;  Sept,  ’lmacrdp 
v.  r.  Iaereip),  the  first  named  of  the  three  sons  of  Caleb 
(son  of  Ilezron)  by  his  first  wife  Azubah  (1  Chron.  ii, 
18).  B.C.  ante  1658.  SccJeiuotii. 

Jesh'imou  is  the  rendering  in  the  Auth.  Version 
(Numb,  xxi,  20;  xxiii,  28;  1 Sam.  xxiii.  19,  24;  xxvi, 
1,3)  of  (yeshimon'),  which  simply  denotes  a 

wilderness,  as  in  the  margin  (so  the  Sept.),  and  else- 
where in  the  text  (Dent,  xxxii,  10;  Psa.  lx  viii,  7 ; “des- 
ert.” Psa.  lxxviii,  40;  evi,  14;  Isa.  xliii,  19,  20,  “soli- 
tary” way,  Psa.  evii,  4).  See  Desert. 

JeshimotlL  Sec  Beth-jesiiimotii. 

Jesh'ishai  [many  Jeshish 'at,  some  Jeshisha'i] 
(Heb.  Yeshishay ',  grayish,  peril,  q.  d.  born  of  an 

old  man;  Sept,  ’lean in  v.  r.  Dr rat),  the  son  of  Jahdo 
and  father  of  Michael,  of  the  ancestry  of  Abihail,  a Gad- 
ite  chief  in  Bashan  (1  Chron.  v,  14).  B.C.  long  ante  782, 

Jeshoha'i'ah  (Heb.  Jeshochayah',  wor- 


JESHUA 


864 


JESSE 


shipper  of  Jehovah;  Sept,  ’laaovta),  a chief  Simeonite,  I 
apparently  one  of  those  who  migrated  to  the  valley  of 
Geilor  (l  Chum,  iv,  3G).  B.C.  prob.  cir.  71 1. 

Jesh'ua  (Heb.  Yeshu’a,  "VJ % a contracted  form 
of  Joshua,  i.  q.  Jesus  ; Sept.  ’Djtroec),  the  name  of 
several  men,  also  of  a place. 

1.  (Xeh.  viii,  17.)  See  Joshua. 

2.  The  head  of  the  ninth  sacerdotal  “class”  as  ar- 
ranged by  David  (t  Citron,  xxiv,  11,  where  the  name 
is  Anglicized  « Jeshuah”).  15. C.  1014.  He  is  thought 
bv  some  to  be  the  Jeshua  of  Ezra  ii,  30.  But  see  Xo.  G. 

3.  One  of  the  Levites  appointed  by  Hezekiali  to  dis- 
tribute the  sacred  offerings  in  the  sacerdotal  cities  (2 
Chron.  xxxi,  15).  B.C.  720. 

4.  A descendant  (or  native)  of  Pahath-moab  (q.  v.) 
mentioned  along  with  Joab  as  one  whose  posterity,  to 
the  number  of  2812  (2818),  returned  from  Babylon  (Ezra 
ii,  G ; Xeh.  vii,  1 1 ).  B.C.  ante  53G. 

5.  A Levite  named  along  with  Kadmiel  as  one  whose 
descendants  (called  “children”  [V inhabitants]  ol  Hoda- 
viah  or  Ilodeviah),  to  the  number  of  74,  returned  from 
Babylon  (Ezra  ii, 40 ; Xeh.  vii, 43).  B.C.  ante  53G.  See 
Nos.  9 and  10. 

6.  Jeshua  (or  Joshua  as  he  is  called  in  Hag.  i,  1, 12; 
ii,  2,  4;  Zech.  iii,  1,  3,  G,  8,  9),  the  “son”  of  Jozadak  or 
Jozedech,  and  high-priest  of  the  Jews  when  they  re- 
turned, under  Zerubbabel,  from  the  Babylonian  exile 
(Xeh.  vii,  7;  xii,  1,  7,  10,  26;  Ezra  ii,  2:  x,  18).  B.C. 
536.  He  was  doubtless  born  during  the  exile.  His 
presence  and  exhortations  greatly  promoted  the  rebuild- 
ing of  the  city  and  Temple  (Ezra  v,  2).  B.C.  520-446. 
The  altar  of  tiie  latter  being  first  erected  enabled  him  to 
sanctify  their  labor  by  the  religious  ceremonies  and  of- 
ferings which  the  law  required  (Ezra  iii,  2, 8, 9).  Jeshua 
joined  with  Zerubbabel  in  opposing  the  machinations 
of  the  Samaritans  (Ezra  iv,  3) ; and  he  was  not  found 
wanting  in  zeal  (comp.  Ecclus.xlix,  12)  when  the  works, 
after  having  been  interrupted,  were  resumed  in  the  sec- 
ond year  of  Darius  ITystaspis  (Ezra  v,  2;  Hagg.  i,  12).  I 
Several  of  the  prophet  llaggai’s  utterances  are  address- 
ed to  Jeshua  (Hagg.  i,  1 ; ii,  2),  and  his  name  occurs  in 
two  of  the  symbolical  prophecies  of  Zechariah  (iii,  1-10; 
vi,  11-15).  In  the  first  of  these  passages,  Jeshua,  as 
pontiff,  represents  the  Jewish  people  covered  at  first 
with  the  garb  of  slaves,  and  afterwards  with  the  new 
and  glorious  vestures  of  deliverance.  In  the  second  he 
wears  for  a moment  crowns  of  silver  and  gold,  as  sym- 
bols of  the  sacerdotal  and  regal  crowns  of  Israel,  which 
were  to  be  united  on  the  head  of  the  Messiah,— Ivitto. 
See  IIkhi-priest.  He  is  probably  the  person  alluded 
to  in  Ezra  ii,  3G;  Xeh.  vii,  39.  See  Jedaiah. 

7.  Father  of  Jozabad,  which  latter  was  one  of  the 
Levites  appointed  by  Ezra  to  take  charge  of  the  offer- 
ings for  the  sacred  services  (Ezra  viii,  33).  B.C.  ante 
459. 

8.  The  father  of  Ezer,  which  latter  is  mentioned  as 
“the  ruler  of  Mizpah”  who  repaired  part  of  the  walls  of 
Jerusalem  after  the  exile  (Xeh.  iii,  19).  B.C.  ante  446. 

9.  A Levite,  son  of  Azaniah  (Xeh.  x,  9),  who  actively 
co-operated  in  the  reformation  instituted  by  Xehemiah 
(Xeh.  viii,  7;  ix,  4,  5;  xii,  8).  B.C.  cir.  410.  lie  was 
possildv  identical  with  Xo.  5. 

10.  Son  of  Kadmiel,  one  of  the  Levites  in  the  Tem- 
ple on  its  restoration  after  the  captivity,  in  the  time  ef 
Eliashih  (Xeh.  xii,  24).  B.C.  cir.  40G.  I’erhaps,  how- 
ever, “son"  is  here  a transcriber’s  error  for  “and;”  so 
that  this  Jeshua  will  be  the  same  as  Xo.  5. 

11.  A city  of  Judah  inhabited  after  the  captivity, 

mentioned  in  connection  with  Jekabzeel,  Moladah,  and 
other  towns  in  the  lowlands  of  Judah  (Xeh.  xi,  26). 
According  to  Schwarz  (Palest,  p.  110),  it  is  the  village 
Leslie,  near  Khulda,  five  English  miles  east  ofEkron; 
doubtless  the  village  Yeshita  [locally  pronounced  Esh- 
u'<<  ] seen  by  Dr.  Bobinson  (new  edit,  of  Researches,  iii, 
15 1, 1 55),  and  laid  down  on  Van  de  Velde’s  Map  on  wady 
Glmrab,  between  Zorah  and  Chesalon.  ” | 


Jesh'uah.  (1  Chron,  xxiv,  11).  See  Jeshua,  2. 

JeEh'urun  (Heb.  Yeshurun',  a poetical  ap- 

pellation of  the  people  of  Israel,  used  in  token  of  affec- 
tion and  tenderness,  occurring  four  times  (Dent,  xxxii, 
15,  Sept.  Tttjrw/3,  Vulg.  dilectus;  Dent,  xxxiii,  5,  26,  and 
Isa.  xliv,  2 [A.  Vers,  in  this  latter  passage  “ Jesurun”] ; 
Sept.  ?iyaTr>i[iivoc,  Vulgate  rectissimus).  The  term  is 
(according  to  Mercer  in  Pagnini,  Thes.  i,  p.  1105;  Mich, 
in  tiuppL,  and  others)  a diminutive  (after  the  form  of 
Zebulun,  Jeduthnn,  etc.)  from  1*1  i.  q.  (compare 
Clb'CJ  and  obtE),  q.  d.  reetulus , a “rightling,”  i.  e.  the 
dear  upright  people.  Aquila,  Symmachus,  and  Theo- 
dotion  have  in  Isaiah  tvSvg,  elsewhere  evjvtutuc  ; 
Kimchi  says,  “ Israel  is  so  called  as  being  among  the 
nations;”  so  also  Aben-Ezra  and  Saadias  (in  the  J’ent.) 
interpret.  Others,  as  Grotius,  understand  the  word  as 
a diminutive  from  “Israel”  itself,  and  so  apparently  the 
Chald.,  Syriac,  and  Saadias  (in  Isaiah),  but  against  the 
analogy  of  derivation.  Ilgen  (l)e  imhre  lapuleo,  p.  25, 
and  in  Paulus,  Memorahil.  vi,  p.  157)  gives  a far-fetched 
derivation  from  the  Arabic,  and  other  fanciful  explana- 
tions may  be  seen  in  Jo.  Olpius’s  hiss,  de  (pne- 

side  Tlieod.  Hasieo,  Brerme,  1730).  The  passages  where 
it  is  employed  seem  to  express  the  idea  that  in  the  char- 
acter of  righteous  Jehovah  recognised  his  people  in  con- 
sideration of  their  covenant  relation  to  him,  whereby, 
while  they  observed  the  terms  of  that  covenant,  they 
stood  legally  justified  before  him  and  clean  in  his  sight. 
It  is  in  this  sense  that  the  pious  kings  are  said  to  have 
done  “ that  which  was  right”  in  the  eyes  of  Je- 

hovah, i.  e.  what  God  approved  (l  Kings  xi,  34,  etc.). — 
Gesenius ; Kitto. 

Jesi'ah  (a.  1 Chron.  xii,  G;  b,  1 Chron.  xxiii,  20). 
See  Isihah,  2,  4. 

Jesim'iel  (Heb.  Yesimiel',  appointed  of 

God;  Sept.  ’layagX),  apparently  one  of  the  chief  Sim- 
eonites  who  migrated  to' the  valley  of  Gedor  in  search 
of  pasture  (1  Chron.  iv,  3G).  B.C.  cir.  711. 

Jessaeans.  According  to  Epiphanius,  the  first  dis- 
tinctive appellation  of  Christians  was ’lfrrffotof,  Jessa> 
ans,  but  it  is  doubtful  from  whom  the  title  was  derived, 
or  in  what  sense  it  was  applied.  Some  suppose  it  was 
from  Jesse,  the  father  of  David ; others  (ami  with  far 
greater  probability  of  accuracy)  trace  it  to  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus.  Philo  is  known  to  have  written  a work 
on  the  first  Church  of  St.  Mark  at  Alexandria,  which  he 
himself  entitled  wfoi  ’leaaaitvv,  which  is  now  extant 
under  the  title  of  7T£oi  fii ov  StionrjTiKov  (of  the  contem- 
plative life),  and  so  is  cited  by  Eusebius  even  : Jerome, 
however,  knew  the  work  intimately,  and  for  this  reason 
gave  Philo  a place  in  his  list  of  ecclesiastical  writers. 
Eusebius  also  mentions  the  name  Jessceans  as  a distinc- 
tive appellation  of  the  early  Christians.  Comp.  Bing- 
ham, Anfiq.  l>k.  i,  eh.  i,  § 1 ; Riddle,  Christian  Antiqui- 
ties, p.  181. 

Jes'se  (Heb.  Yishay' , perhaps  frm,  otherwise 

living;  once  I shay',  either  by  prosthesis,  or  manly, 

1 Chron.  ii,  13 ; Sept,  and  X.  T.  ’Itoaai ; Josephus  'ita- 
traioc,  Ant.  vi,  8,  1),  a son  (or  descendant)  of  Obed,  the 
son  of  Boaz  and  Ruth  (Ruth  iv,  17,  22;  Matt,  i,  5,  6 ; 
Luke  iii,  32;  1 Chron.  ii,  12).  He  was  the  father  of 
eight  sons  (1  Sam.  xvii,  12),  from  the  youngest  of  whom, 
David,  is  reflected  all  the  distinction  which  belongs 
to  the  name,  although  the  latter,  as  being  of  humble 
birth,  was  often  reproached  by  his  enemies  with  this  pa- 
rentage (1  Sam.  xx,  27,  36,  31 ; xxii,  7, 8 ; xxv,  10 ; 2 
Sam.  xx,  1 ; 1 Kings  xii,  10:  2 Chron.  x,  10).  “*S7ew  of 
Jesse ” is  used  poetically  for  the  family  of  David  (Isa.  xi, 
1),  and  uRoot  [i.  e.  root-shoot,  or  sprout  from  the  stump, 
i.  q.  scion']  of  Jesse"  for  the  Messiah  (Isa.  xi,  10 ; Rev.  v, 
5;  comp,  xxii,  1G).  He  seems  to  have  been  a person  of 
some  note  and  substance  at  Bethlehem,  his  property  be- 
ing chiefly  in  sheep  (1  Sam.  xvi,  1,11;  xvii,  20;  eomp. 
Psa,  Ixxviii,  71).  It  would  seem  from  1 Sam.  xvi,  10, 


JESSE 


865 


JESUITS 


that  he  must  have  been  aware,  of  the  high  destinies 
which  awaited  his  son,  but  it  is  doubtful  if  he  ever  lived 
to  see  them  realized  (see  1 Sam.  xvii,  12).  The  last 
historical  mention  of  Jesse  is  in  relation  to  the  asylum 
which  David  procured  for  him  with  the  king  of  Moab  (1 
Sam.  xxii,  3).  B.O.  cir.  10G8-10GI.  See  David. 

“According  to  an  ancient  Jewish  tradition,  recorded 
in  the  Tafgum  on  2 Sam.  xxi,  19,  Jesse  was  a weaver  of 
the  vails  of  the  sanctuary;  but  as  there  is  no  contradic- 
tion, so  there  is  no  corroboration  of  this  in  the  Bible,  and 
it  is  possible  that  it  was  suggested  by  the  occurrence  of 
the  word  oregim , ‘weavers,’  in  connection  with  a member 
of  his  family.  See  Jaare - OitEGUt.  Who  the  wife 
of  Jesse  was  we  are  not  told.  The  family  contained,  in 
addition  to  the  sons,  two  female  members — Zeruiah  and 
Abigail ; but  it  is  uncertain  whether  these  were  Jesse’s 
daughters,  for,  though  they  are  called  the  sisters  of  his 
sons  (1  Chron.  ii,  10),  yet  Abigail  is  said  to  have  been 
the  daughter  of  Nahash  (2  8am.  xvii,  25).  Of  tins,  two 
explanations  have  been  proposed.  (1.)  The  Jewish: 
that  Nahash  was  another  name  for  Jesse  (Jerome,  Qucest. 
llebr.  on  2 Sam.  xvii,  25,  and  the  Targum  on  Until  iv, 
22).  (2.)  Prof.  Stanley’s  : that  Jesse’s  wife  had  formerly 
been  wife  or  concubine  to  Nahash,  possibly  the  king  of 
the  Ammonites  ( Jewish  Church , ii,  50, 51)”  (Smith).  See 
Naiiasii. 

Jesse,  Tree  of,  in  ecclesiastical  architecture,  is  a 
representation  of  the  genealogy  of  Christ  on  scrolls  of 
foliage  so  arranged  as  to  represent  a tree,  and  was  quite 
a common  subject  for  sculpture,  painting,  and  embroid- 
ery. Iu  ancient  churches,  the  candlesticks  often  took 
this  form,  and  was  therefore  called  a Jesse.  See  Parker, 
Gloss.  A rchif.  s.  v. ; Walcott,  Sacred  Archaeology,  p.  333. 

Jes'sue  (Itaaous  v.  r.  'bjaovs  and  Tjjtroue,  1 Esdr. 
v,  20),  or  Je'su  (’L/aonf,  1 Esdr.  viii,  03),  corrupt  forms 
(see  Ezra  ii,  40;  viii,  33)  of  the  name  of  Jesuit  a (q.  v.). 

JESU  is  likewise  used  in  modern  poetry  for  the  name 
of  Jesus,  our  Saviour,  especially  as  a vocative  or  geni- 
tive. 

Jesuates,  a monastic  order,  so  called  because  its 
members  frequently  pronounced  the  name  of  Jesus.  The 
founders  were  John  ofColombiui,gonfaloniere,aiid  Fran- 
cis Mi  no  Vineentini  of  Sienna.  This  institution  was 
continual  by  Urban  V in  the  year  13G8,  and  continued 
till  the  seventeenth  century,  when  it  was  suppressed  by 
Clement  IX.  The  persons  belonging  to  it  professed 
poverty,  and  adhered  to  the  institute  of  Augustine. 
They  were  not,  however,  admitted  to  holy  orders,  but 
professed  to  assist  the  poor  with  their  prayers  and  other 
offices,  and  prepared  medicine  for  them,  which  they  dis- 
tributed gratuitously:  we  find  them,  for  that  reason,  call- 
ed sometimes  Apostolic  Clerks.  They  were  also  known 
as  the  Congregation  of  Saint  Hieronymus,  their  patron. 
Having  become  largely  interested  in  the  distillery  of 
brandies,  etc.,  they  were  by  the  people  called  Padri  dell 
aqua  vitee.  A female  order  of  the  same  name,  and  a 
branch  of  the  male  order,  was  founded  by  Catharina 
Colombina.  They  still  continue  to  exist  in  Italy  as  a 
branch  organization  of  the  Augustinian  order.  See  Her- 
zog, Real-Eneyklop.  s.  v. ; Farrar,  Ecclesiast.  Dirt.  p.  340 ; 
Ilclyot,  Geschiehte  d.  Kloster  und  Ritterorden,  iii,  484  sq. 

Jes'ui,  Jes'tiite  (Numb,  xxvi,  44).  See  Isitui,  1. 

Jesuits,  or  the  Society  of  Jesus  (Societas  Jesit),  the 
most  celebrated  among  the  monastic  institutions  of  the 
Homan  Catholic  Church. 

I.  Foundation  of  the  Order. — It  was  founded  by  the 
Spanish  nobleman  Don  Inigo  (Ignatius)  of  Loyola  (q. 
v.).  Thirst  for  glory  caused  him  at  an  early  age  to  en- 
ter the  army.  Having  been  wounded,  May  20,  1521, 
during  the  siege  of  Pamplona  by  the  French,  he  turned 
during  the  slow  progress  of  his  recovery  from  his  former 
favorite  reading  of  knights’  novels  to  the  study  of  the 
life  of  Jesus  and  the  saints.  His  heated  imagination 
suggested  to  him  an  arena  in  which  even  greater  dis- 
tinction could  be  won  than  in  military  life,  and  lie  re- 
solved henceforth  to  devote  his  life  to  the  service  of  | 
IV.— I i i 


God  and  of  the  Church.  Having  recovered,  he  first 
went  to  the  Benedictine  abbey  of  Montserrat,  where, 
after  a general  confession,  he  took  the  vow  of  chastity, 
hung  up  his  sword  and  dagger  on  the  altar,  and  then 
proceeded  to  Manresa,  where,  after  a short  stay  in  the 
hospital,  he  hid  himself  in  a roeky  cavern  near  the 
| town,  in  order  to  devote  himself  wholly  to  prayer  and 
ascetic  exercises.  Here  he  is  believed  to  have  made 
\ his  first  draft  of  the  “Spiritual  Exercises”  ( Exercitia 
Spirituals),  a work  which  in  1548  a brief  of  pope  Paul 
III  warmly  commended  to  all  the  faithful,  and  to  which 
the  thorough  soldier-like  discipline  that  characterizes 
the  order  of  the  Jesuits,  and  the  ultra  papal  system  of 
which  they  have  been  the  pioneers,  are  greatly  due.  As 
Ignatius  himself  subsequently  states,  the  idea  of  a new 
religious  order  which  was  to  take  a front  rank  under 
the  banner  of  Christ  in  the  combat  against  the  prince 
of  darkness  likewise  originated  with  him  at  this  time. 
During  a brief  pilgrimage  which  Ignatius  made  in  1523 
to  Palestine,  lie  became  aware  that  he  utterly  lacked 
the  necessary  literary  qualification  for  carrying  out  the 
plans  which  he  had  conceived.  Accordingly,  when  lie 
had  returned  to  Spain,  he  entered  a grammar-school  at 
Barcelona,  and  subsequently  visited  the  universities  of 
Alcala  and  Salamanca,  and  at  last  went  to  Paris,  where 
he  studied  from  1528  to  1535,  and  in  1533  acquired  the 
title  of  doctor  of  philosophy.  In  Paris  Ignatius  gradu- 
ally gathered  around  himself  the  first  members  of  the 
order  he  intended  to  found.  His  first  associates  were 
Lcfevrc  (Petrus  Faber),  from  Savoy,  Francis  of  Xavier, 
i from  Navarre,  and  the  Spaniards  Jacob  Lainez,  Alfons 
| Salmeron,  Nicolaus  Bobadilla,  and  Simon  Bodriguez. 
i They  were  for  the  first  time  called  together  by  Ignatius 
j in  July,  1534,  and  soon  after,  on  August  15,  the  festival  of 
the  Assumption  of  Diary,  they  took  the  vows  of  poverty, 
chastity,  and  of  making  a pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem,  in 
order  to  labor  in  the  Holy  Land  for  the  conversion  of 
the  infidels.  In  case  they  should  be  unable  to  carry 
out  this  project  within  one  year  after  their  arrival  in 
Venice,  they  would  go  to  Home  and  place  themselves 
at  the  disposal  of  the  pope.  On  Jan.  (>,  1537,  Ignatius 
was  joined  in  Venice  by  all  of  his  disciples  and  three 
l more  Frenchmen — Le  Jay,  Codure,  and  Brouet.  All 
took,  two  months  later,  holy  orders,  but  their  plan  to  go 
, to  Jerusalem  they  could  not  execute,  as  the  republic  of 
Venice  was  at  Avar  with  sultan  Suleiman  II.  They  con- 
sequently went  to  Rome  to  await  the  orders  of  the  pope. 

I Paul  III  received  them  kindly,  gave  to  Faber  and  Lai- 
nez chairs  in  the  Sapicnza,  and  requested  Ignatius  to 
labor  as  a city  missionary  for  the  improvement  of  the 
religious  life.  In  March,  1538,  the  other  associates  also 
arrived  in  Home,  and  it  was  now  formally  resolved  to 
establish  a new  religious  order.  Ignatius  was  elected 
to  submit  their  plan  to  the  pope,  anil  to  obtain  his  sanc- 
tion. This  was  given  on  Sept.  27,  1540,  in  the  bull 
Reginald  M Hit antis  ecclesice,  which,  however,  restricted 
the  number  of  professi  to  forty.  Three  years  later 
(March  14,  1543),  another  bull,  Injunctum  A "obis,  re- 
moved this  restriction.  Reluctantly  Ignatius  accepted 
the  dignity  of  the  first  general  of  the  order,  to  which  he 
had  been  unanimously  elected.  He  entered  upon  his 
office  on  April  17,  1541;  and  soon  after,  in  accordance 
with  the  request  of  Paul  III,  the  draft  of  the  constitu- 
tion of  the  new  order  was  made  by  him  (not,  as  is  often 
maintained,  by  Lainez;  see  Genelli,  Ltben  des  heil.  Ig- 
natius, p.  2 1 2).  Before  being  finally  sanctioned,  the  con- 
stitution was  to  undergo  several  revisions;  but  before 
these  were  made,  Ignatius  (lied,  July  31, 155G. 

II.  Constitution  and  Form  of  Gorernment. — The  laws 
regulating  the  order  are  contained  in  the  so-called  Insti- 
tuium  (official  edition,  Prague,  1757,2  vols. ; new  edit. 
Avignon,  1827-38).  The  work  opens  with  a collection 
of  all  the  bulls  and  decrees  of  the  apostolic  see  concern- 
ing the  new  society.  This  is  followed  by  a list  of  the 
privileges  which  have  been  granted  to  the  order,  and 
by  the  General  Examination,  which  serves  a§  an  intro- 
duetion  to  the  constitutions,  and  is  laid  before  every  ap- 


8GG 


JESUITS 


JESUITS 


plicant  for  admission.  The  most  important  portion  of  I 
the  code,  the  constitutions,  consists  of  ten  chapters,  to  | 
each  of  which  are  added  explanations  (Declarat  tones), 
which,  .according  to  the  intentions  ol  the  founder,  are  to 
be  equally  valid  as  the  constitutions.  Next  follow  the 
decrees  and  canons  of  the  general  congregations;  the 
plan  of  studies  (Ratio  Studiorum ),  which,  however,  in 
1832  was  considerably  changed  by  the  general  John 
Roothahn;  the  decrees  of  the  generals  ( Ordinationes 
Generalium),  as  they  were  revised  by  the  eighth  Gen- 
eral Congregation  in  1615;  and,  in  conclusion,  by  three 
ascetic  writings  — the  Industrie?  ad  eitrandos  animal 
morbos  of  general  Claudius  Aquaviva,  the  Spiritual  Ex- 
ercises of  Ignatius,  and  the  Lirectorium,  an  official  in- 
struction for  the  right  use  of  these  exercises.  At  the 
head  of  the  order  is  a general  (Prcepositus  Generalise 
who  is  elected  for  life,  must  reside  at  Rome,  and  is  only 
subject  to  the  pope.  His  power  is  unlimited,  as  the 
Council  of  Assistants  has  only  a deliberative  vote.  He 
is,  however,  bound  to  the  constitutions,  which  he  can 
neither  change  nor  set  aside.  The  constitution  provides 
for  the  deposition  of  a general  in  particular  cases  by  the 
General  Congregation,  but  the  case  has  not  yet  occurred. 
For  the  administration  of  the  provinces  into  which  the 
order  is  divided  the  general  appoints  provincials  for 
the  term  of  three  years.  Several  provinces  are  united 
into  an  assistentia,  which  is  represented  in  the  council 
of  the  general  by  an  assistant.  There  were  in  1871  five 
assistants  for  Italy,  France,  Spain,  England,  and  Ger- 
many. The  assistants  are  appointed  by  the  General 
Congregation,  but  in  case  of  the  death  or  a long  absence 
of  an  assistant  the  general  can  substitute  another,  with 
the  consent  of  the  majority  of  the  provincials.  Subor- 
dinate to  the  provincial  are  the  prsepositi,  who  govern 
the  houses  of  the  professed,  and  the  rectors,  who  govern 
the  colleges  and  the  novitiates.  They  arc  likewise  ap- 
pointed by  the  general.  At  the  head  of  the  minor  es- 
tablishments (residential)  are  “superiors.”  Each  of 
these  officers  has  by  bis  side  a cousultor  to  advise,  and 
a monitor  to  watch  and  admonish  him.  As  in  every 
religious  order,  the  members  are  divided  into  priests  and 
lay  brothers  (Coadjutores  temporales ).  The  latter  take  j 
the  simple  vows  after  a two-years’  novitiate,  and  the 
solemn  vows  after  having  been  in  the  order  for  at  least 
ten  years.  Those  candidates  who,  on  entering  the  or- 
der, leave  their  future  employment  entirely  to  the  dis- 
position of  their  superiors,  are  called  Indijj'erentes ; but, 
according  to  a decree  of  the  General  Congregation,  their 
final  destination  must  be  assigned  to  them  at  least  with- 
in two  years.  The  candidates  for  the  priesthood  are, 
during  the  first  two  years,  Xovitii  scholustici;  then, 
after  binding  themselves  to  the  order  by  taking  simple 
vows,  they  become  /Scholustici  approbati , devote  them- 
selves for  several  years  to  classical  and  philosophical 
studies,  and  are  for  some  time  employed  as  teachers  or 
educators  in  the  colleges,  before  they  begin  the  study 
of  theology,  which  lasts  for  four  years.  After  the  com- 
pletion of  the  theological  course  they  are  ordained 
priests,  and  now  enter  into  a third  novitiate,  the  sole 
object  of  which  is  to  increase  their  zeal.  At  the  end  of 
this  novitiate  the  candidate  is  admitted  to  the  solemn 
profession  of  the  vows,  and  enrolled  either  in  the  class 
of  the  professed  or  that  of  the  spiritual  coadjutors.  ( )nlv 
the  former  class,  the  professed,  who  take  the  fourth  vow 
of  an  unconditional  obedience  to  the  pope,  possess  the 
full  rights  of  members  of  the  society.  The.  professed  of 
a province  every  third  year  meet  in  a provincial  con- 
gregation, and  out  of  their  midst  choose  a procurator, 
who  lias  to  make  a report  on  the  affairs  and  condition 
of  the  province  to  the  general.  On  the  death  of  a gen- 
eral the  Provincial  Congregation  elects  two  deputies, 
who,  together  with  the  provincials,  constitute  the  Gen- 
eral Congregation,  which  elects  the  new  general.  In 
this  General  Congregation  the  supreme  legislative  power 
is  vested;  it  can  be  called  together  on  extraordinary- 
occasions  by  the  general,  and,  in  case  the  latter  neglects 
his  duty,  by  the  assistants.  Thus  the  order  bears  the 


aspect  of  military  aristocracy,  and  never,  during  the 
whole  history  of  the  Church  of  Rome,  have  the  popes 
had  in  their  service  a body  of  men  so  thoroughly  dis- 
ciplined. “ Before  any  ono  could  become  a member,  he 
was  severely  and  appropriately  tested  in  the  novitiate. 
Of  the  actual  members,  only  a few  choice  spirits  reached 
the  perfect  dignity  ot'  the  professed,  from  whom  alone 
were  chosen  the  principal  officers,  the  superiors  and  the 
provincials,  constituting  a well-organized  train  of  au- 
thorities up  to  the  general.  Every  individual  was  pow- 
erful in  his  appropriate  sphere,  but  in  every  act  he  was 
closely  watched  and  guarded  lest  he  should  transcend 
his  proper  limits.  So  perfect  was  the  obedience  incul- 
cated by  a long  course  of  discipline,  and  strengthened 
by  every  spiritual  means,  that  a single  arbitrary-  but  in- 
flexible will  controlled  every-  movement  of  the  order  in 
all  parts  of  the  world.  Although  every-  individual  pos- 
sessed no  more  will  of  his  own  than  the  particular  mem- 
bers of  the  human  body-,  he  expected  to  be  placed  in 
precisely  that  position  in  which  his  talents  would  be 
best  developed  for  the  common  benefit:  in  exercises  of 
monastic  devotion,  in  literary  and  scientific  pursuits,  in 
the  secular  life  of  courts,  or  in  strange  adventures  and 
eminent  offices  among  savage  nations”  (Hase,  Church 
History,  § 383). 

III.  History  from  1540  to  1750. — On  the  death  of  Ig- 
; natius  the  General  Congregation  could  not  meet  imme- 
diately, as  the  Spaniards,  who  were  at  war  with  the 
pope,  blocked  up  the  roads  to  Rome.  On  June  19, 1557, 
Jacob  Lainez,  the  most  gifted  member  of  the  order,  was 
| elected  the  second  general  of  the  order.  The  eonstitu- 
' tions  were  once  more  revised,  and  unanimously-  adopted; 
but  the  pope  (Paul  IV)  disliked  several  of  its  provisions, 

I and  in  particular  wished  to  have  the  general  elected  for 
a term  of  only-  three  years,  and  an  observance  of  the 
canonical  hours.  The  Jesuits  had  to  submit  in  the  lat- 
ter points,  but  when  the  aged  pope  soon  after  (bed  they 
returned  to  their  original  practice.  The  society  spread 
rapidly,  and  numbered  at  the  death  of  Lainez  (Jan.  19, 
1565)  eighteen  provinces  and  130  houses.  During  tl.e 
administration  of  the  two  following  generals,  the  Span- 
iard Francis  Borgia  (1565-72)  and  the  Belgian  Mercu- 
rian (1572-80),  the  order  was  greatly  favored  by  the 
popes,  and  new  provinces  were  organized  in  Peru,  Mex- 
ico, and  Poland.  The  fourth  General  Congregation,  on 
Feb.  19,  1581,  elected  as  general  the  Neapolitan  Clau- 
dius Aquaviva  (1581-1615),  a man  of  rare  administra- 
tive genius,  who  successfully  carried  the  society-  through 
the  only-  internal  commotion  of  importance  through 
which  it  has  passed,  and  who,  next  to  its  founder,  has 
done  more  than  any-  other  general  in  moulding  its  char- 
acter. The  leading  Spanish  Jesuits,  mortified  at  seeing 
the  generalship,  which  they-  had  begun  to  regard  as  a 
domain  of  their  nationality-,  pass  into  the  hands  of  an 
Italian,  meditated  an  entire  decentralization  of  the  or- 
der and  the  hegemony  of  the  Spaniards  at  the  expense 
of  the  unity  and  the  monarchical  principle.  The  plan 
met  with  the  approval  of  Philip  II ; but  the  energy  of 
pope  Sixtus  V,  who  took  sides  with  Aquaviva,  foiled 
it.  Lender  Clement  VIII  the  Spaniards  renewed  their 
scheme,  and  the  commotion  produced  by  them  became 
so  great  that  in  1593  the  fifth  General  Congregation 
(the  first  extraordinary  one)  was  convoked.  The  Span- 
iards hoped  that  Aquaviva  would  be  removed,  but  again 
their  designs  were  defeated,  and  the  centralistic  admin- 
istration of  the  general  sustained.  The  administrative 
crisis  was  followed  by-  violent  doctrinal  controversies. 
The  book  of  the  Portuguese  Jesuit  Molina  involved  the 
order  in  a quarrel  with  the  Dominicans,  and  a work 
(published  in  1599)  in  which  the  Spanish  Jesuit  Mari- 
ana justified  tyrannicide  raised  a storm  of  indignation 
against  the  society  throughout  Europe,  although  Aqua- 
viva, in  1614,  strictly  forbade  all  members  of  the  order 
to  advance  this  doctrine.  During  the  administration 
of  Aquaviva  (about  1680)  the  order  numbered  27  prov- 
inces, 21  houses  of  professed,  287  colleges,  33  novitiates, 
96  residences,  and  10,581  members.  During  the  admin- 


JESUITS 


867 


JESUITS 


istration  of  the  Roman  Mutius  Vitelleschi  (1615-45)  the 
order  celebrated  its  tirst  centenary  (1640).  The  eighth 
General  Congregation,  on  Jan.  7,  1646,  elected  as  gen- 
eral the  Neapolitan  Vincenz  CaratFa.  On  January  1 of 
this  year  pope  Innocent  X had  issued  a brief,  according 
to  which  a General  Congregation  was  to  be  held  every 
ninth  year,  and  the  administration  of  the  superiors  was 
limited  to  three  years.  'Flic  latter  provision  was  re- 
pealed by  Alexander  VII  (Jan.  1, 1663) ; the  former  did 
not  take  elfeet  until  1661,  as  the  short  administration 
of  the  generals  Vincenz  CaratFa  (f  June  8, 1649),  Francis 
Piccolomini  (f  June  17, 1651),  and  Aloys  Gotti frcdi  had 
practically  suspended  it.  On  March  17, 1652.  the  Gen- 
eral Congregation  for  the  first  time  elected  as  general  a 
German,  Goswin  Nickel,  of  Julich,  to  whom,  on  account 
of  his  great  age,  the  eleventh  Congregation,  on  June  7, 
1661,  gave  Paul  Oliva  as  coadjutor,  with  the  right  of 
succession.  Oliva  was  general  for  more  than  seventeen 
years,  and  was  succeeded  by  the  Belgian  Noyelle  (1682- 
86)  and  the  Spaniard  Thyrsus  Gonzalez  (1687-1705). 
Pope  Innocent  XI  was  unfavorable  to  the  order,  and  in  | 
1684  the  Congregation  of  the  Propaganda  forbade  it  to 
receive  any  more  novices;  but  in  1686  this  decree  was  ! 
cancelled  by  Innocent  himself.  Gonzalez  caused  con-  1 
siderable  excitement  by  publishing  a wurk  against  the  j 
doctrine  of  Probabilism,  which  had  been  generally  taught 
by  the  theologians  of  the  society,  lie  was  succeeded 
by  the  generals  Tamburini  (1706-30),  Kctz  (1730-50), 
Visconti  (1751-55),  Centurione  (1755*57),  Ricci  (1758- 
73);  under  the  latter  the  order  was  suppressed  (1773). 
The  order  during  all  this  time  had  steadily,  though  not 
rapidly  increased  in  strength.  It  numbered  in  1720  5 
assistants,  37  provinces,  24  houses  of  professed,  612  col- 
leges, 59  novitiates,  340  residences,  157  seminaries,  200 
missions,  and  19,998  members,  among  whom  were  9957 
priests.  In  1762  the  order  had  increased  to  39  prov- 
inces, 639  colleges,  61  novitiates,  176  seminaries,  335  res- 
idences, 223  missions,  and  22,787  members,  among  whom 
were  11,010  priests. 

Soon  after  the  establishment  of  the  order,  the  pope, 
the  bishops,  and  those  monarchs  who  were  opposed  to 
the  Reformation  recognised  the  Jesuits  as  the  most  effi- 
cient organization  for  saving  the  old  Church.  Thus 
the  spread  of  the  order  was  rapid.  At  the  Council  of 
Trent  the  Spanish  ambassadors  declared  that  their  king, 
Philip  II,  knew  only  two  ways  to  stay  the  advance  of 
the  Reformation,  the  education  of  good  preachers,  and 
the  Jesuits.  Calls  were  consequently  received  from  va- 
rious countries  for  members  of  the  order;  but,  as  they 
not  only  opposed  Protestantism,  but  defended  the  most 
excessive  claims  of  the  popes  with  regard  to  secidar 
governments,  they  soon  encountered  a violent  resistance 
on  the  part  of  those  governments  which  refused  a ser- 
vile submission  to  the  dictates  of  the  papacy.  In  many 
cases  the  bishops  sided  against  them,  as  the  Jesuits 
were  found  to  be  always  ready  to  extend  the  papal  at 
the  cost  of  the  episcopal  authority.  This  was  especial- 
ly the  case  in  the  republic  of  Venice,  where  the  patri- 
arch Trevisani  showed  himself  their  decided  opponent. 
Subsequently,  when  they  defended  the  interdict  which 
Paul  V had  pronounced  against  Venice,  they  were  ex- 
pelled (in  1606),  and  not  until  1656  did  pope  Alexander 
VII  succeed  in  obtaining  from  the  republic  a reluctant 
consent  to  their  return.  At  the  beginning  of  the  18th 
century  the  Piedmontese  viceroy  in  Sicily,  MafFei,  ex- 
pelled them  from  that  island,  because  they  were  again 
the  most  eager  among  the  clergy  to  enforce  a papal  in- 
terdict. Nowhere  did  the  order  render  to  the  Church 
of  Rome  so  great  services  as  in  Germany  and  the  north- 
ern countries  of  Europe,  where  Protestantism  had  be- 
come predominant.  While  taking  part  in  all  the  efforts 
against  the  spread  of  Protestantism,  they  labored  with 
particular  zeal  for  the  establishment  of  educational  in- 
stitutions, and  for  gaining  the  confidence  of  the  princes. 
In  both  respects  'they  met  with  considerable  success. 

- Their  colleges  at  Ingolstadt,  Munich,  Vienna,  Prague, 
Cologne,  Treves,  Mentz,  Augsburg,  Ellwangen,  and  other 


places  became  highly  prosperous,  and  attracted  a large 
number  of  pupils,  especially  from  the  aristocratic  fami- 
lies, most  of  whom  remained  throughout  life  warm  sup- 
porters of  all  the  schemes  of  the  order.  Under  emperor 
Rudolph  II  the  Jesuits  established  themselves  in  all 
parts  of  Germany.  At  most  of  the  courts  Jesuits  were 
confessors  of  the  reigning  princes,  and  invariably  used 
the  influence  thus  gained  for  the  adoption  of  forcible 
measures  against  Protestantism.  At  the  instigation  of 
the  Jesuits  a counter-reformation  was  forcibly  carried 
through  in  a number  of  provinces  in  which  Protestant- 
ism, before  their  arrival,  appeared  to  be  sure  of  success. 
Thus,  in  particular,  Austria,  Styria,  Bavaria,  or  Baden, 
were  either  gained  back  by  them  or  preserved  for  the 
Church  of  Rome,  and  from  1648  to  1748  they  are  said 
to  have  persuaded  no  less  than  forty-live  princes  of  the 
empire  to  join  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  As  advi- 
sors of  the  princes,  they  became  to  so  high  a degree  in- 
volved in  political  affairs  that  frequently  even  the  gen- 
erals of  the.  order  and  the  popes  deemed  it  necessary  to 
recommend  to  them  a greater  caution.  They  were  call- 
ed into  Hungary  by  the  archbishop  of  Gran  as  early  as 
1561,  but  there,  as  well  as  in  Transylvania,  the  vicissi- 
tudes of  the  religious  wars  for  a long  time  prevented 
them  from  gaining  a firm  footing.  When,  however,  the 
policy  of  the  Austrian  government  finally  succeeded  in 
breaking  the  strength  of  the  Protestant  party,  the  Jes- 
uits became  all-powerful.  In  1767  they  had  in  these 
two  countries  18  colleges,  20  residences,  11  missionary 
stations,  and  990  members.  In  Poland,  Petrus  Canisius 
appeared  in  1558  at  the  Diet  of  Petrikau;  about  twenty 
years  later  the  favor  of  king  Stephen  Bathori  empower- 
ed the  Jesuits  to  found  a number  of  colleges,  and  to  se- 
cure the  education  of  nearly  the  whole  aristocracy.  John 
Casimir,  the  brother  of  Vladislav  IV,  even  entered  the 
order  on  Sept.  25, 1643,  and,  although  not  yet  ordained 
priest,  was  appointed  cardinal  in  1647 ; yet,  after  the 
death  of  his  brother,  he  became  king  of  Poland  (1648- 
68).  The  Jesuit  Possevin  was  in  1581  sent  as  embassa- 
dor of  Gregory  XIII  to  Ivan  IV  of  Russia,  and  subse- 
quently the  Jesuit  Vota  made  a fruitless  attempt  to 
unite  the  Greek  with  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  Pe- 
ter the  Great,  in  1714,  expelled  the  few  Jesuits  who  at 
that  time  were  laboring  in  his  dominions.  In  Sweden, 
in  1578,  the  Jesuits  induced  the  king,  John  III,  to  make 
secretly  a profession  of  the  Roman  Catholic  faith ; and 
queen  Christina,  the  daughter  of  Gustavus  Adolphus, 
was  likewise  prevailed  upon  in  1654.  by  the  Jesuits  Ma- 
cedo  and  Casati,  to  join  the  Church  of  Rome;  but,  with 
regard  to  the  people  at  large,  the  efforts  of  the  Jesuits 
were  entirely  fruitless.  To  England,  Salmeron  and 
Brouet  were  sent  by  Ignatius.  They  were  unable  to 
prevent  the  separation  of  the  English  Church  from 
Rome,  but  they  confirmed  James  V of  Scotland  in  the 
Roman  Catholic  faith,  encouraged  the  people  of  Ireland 
in  their  opposition  to  the  English  king  and  the  Angli- 
can reformation,  and,  having  returned  to  the  Continent, 
established  several  colleges  for  the  education  of  Roman 
Catholic  priests  for  England.  Elizabeth  expelled  all 
the  Jesuits  from  her  dominions,  and  forbade  them,  upon 
penalty  of  death,  to  return.  During  her  reign  the  Jes- 
uit Campion  was  put  to  death.  In  1605  father  Garnet 
was  executed,  having  been  charged  with  complicity  in 
the  Gunpowder  Plot,  which  had  been  communicated  to 
him  in  the  confessional.  In  1678  the  Jesuits  were  ac- 
cused by  Titus  Oates  of  having  entered  into  a conspira- 
cy against  Charles  II  and  the  state,  in  consequence  of 
which  six  members  of  the  order  were  put  to  death.  The 
j first  Jesuits  who  were  brought  to  the  Netherlands  were 
some  Spanish  members  of  the  order,  who,  during  the 
| war  between  France  and  Charles  V,  were  ordered  to 
! leave  France.  The  bishops  showed  them,  on  the  whole, 
less  favor  than  in  the  other  countries,  and  the  magis- 
trates in  the  cities,  on  whose  consent  the  authorization 
to  establish  colleges  was  made  contingent,  generally 
opposed  them;  but  they  overcame  the  opposition,  and 
in  the  southern  provinces  (Belgium)  soon  became  more 


JESUITS 


JESUITS  868 


numerous  and  influential  than  in  most  of  the  other  Euro-  I 
pean  countries.  They  attracted  great  attention  hv  their  j 
attacks  upon  Bajus  and  the  Jansenists,  both  of  whom 
were  condemned  at  Home  at  their  instigation.  In  the 
northern  provinces  (Holland)  stringent  laws  were  re- 
peatedly passed  against  them,  and  they  were  charged 
with  the  assassination  of  William  of  Orange,  as  well  as 
with  the  attempt  against  the  life  of  Maurice  of  Nassau, 
but  both  charges  were  indignantly  denied  by  the  order. 
In  France,  where  the  Jesuits  established  a novitiate  at 
Paris  as  early  as  1540,  they  encountered  from  the  begin- 
ning the  most  determined  opposition  of  the  University 
and  the  Parliament,  and  the  bishop  of  Paris  forbade 
them  to  exercise  any  priestly  functions.  In  1550  the 
cardinal  of  Lorraine  obtained  for  them  a favorable  patent 
from  Henry  II,  but  the  Parliament  refused  to  record  it. 
In  1561  Lainez  received  from  the  Synod  of  Poissy  the 
concession  that  the  Jesuits  should  be  permitted  to  estab- 
lish themselves  at  Paris  under  the  name  of  “ Fathers  of 
the  College  of  Clermont.”  This  college,  which  was  sanc- 
tioned by  Charles  IX  in  1565,  and  by  llenrv  III  in  1580, 
attained  a high  degree  of  prosperity,  and  in  the  middle 
of  the  17th  century  numbered  upwards  of  2000  pupils. 
In  the  south  of  France  the  Jesuits  gained  a greater  in- 
fluence than  in  the  north,  and  were  generally  regarded 
as  the  leaders  in  the  violent  struggle  of  the  Catholic 
party  for  the  arrest  and  suppression  of  Calvinism.  They 
were  closely  allied  with  the  Ligue,  but  general  Aquaviva 
disapproved  the  openness  of  this  alliance,  and  removed 
fathers  Matthieu  and  Sommier,  who  had  been  chiefly 
instrumental  in  bringing  about  the  alliance,  to  Italy 
and  Belgium.  The  Jesuit  Toletus  brought  about  the 
reconciliation  between  the  Ligue  and  Henry  IV,  who 
remained  a warm  protector  of  the  order.  Nevertheless, 
Jesuits  were  charged  with  the  attempts  made  upon  the 
life  of  Henry  by  Chastcl  (1594)  and  Kavaillac  (1610),  as 
they  bad  before  been  charged  with  complicity  in  the 
plot  of  Clement  (1589)  against  Henry  HI.  The  Parlia- 
ment of  Paris  instituted,  accordingly,  proceedings  against 
the  Jesuit  Guignard,  who  had  been  the  instructor  of 
Chastel,  sentenced  him  to  death,  deprived  the  Jesuits 
of  their  goods,  and  exiled  them  from  France.  Henry 
IV  was,  however,  prevailed  upon  to  recall  them,  contin-  i 
ued  to  be  their  protector,  and  again  chose  a Jesuit  as 
his  confessor.  The  same  office  was  tilled  by  members 
of  the  order  during  nearly  the  whole  reigns  of  Louis  i 
XIII,  Louis  XIV.  and  Louis  XV,  and  through  the  royal 
confessors  the  order  therefore  did  not  cease  to  exercise  a 
very  conspicuous  influence  upon  the  policy  of  the  kings  j 
both  at  home  and  abroad.  The  connivance  of  these 
confessors  with  the  scandalous  lives  of  the  kings  did 
more  than  anything  else  to  undermine  the  respect  for 
the  Homan  Catholic  Church,  and  for  religion  in  general, 
among  the  educated  classes.  To  Pome,  however,  they 
rendered  invaluable  services  by  heading  the  opposition 
against  Louis  XIV  and  the  bishops  when  the  latter  con- 
jointly tried  to  enforce  throughout  the  Catholic  Church 
of  France  submission  to  the  four  Gallican  articles,  and 
after  effecting  a full  reconciliation  between  Rome  and 
Louis,  by  securing  the  aid  of  the  secular  arm  for  arrest- 
ing the  progress  and  averting  a victory  of  Jansenism, 
which  had  obtained  full  control  of  the  best  intellects  in 
the  Church  of  France.  In  Spain,  which  had  been  the 
cradle  of  the  order,  its  success  was  remarkably  rapid. 
As  early  as  1554  three  provinces  of  the  order  (Castile, 
Aragon,  and  Andalusia)  had  been  organized.  They 
were,  however,  opposed  by  the  learned  Melchior  ('anus; 
in  Saragossa  they  were  expelled  by  the  archbishop,  and 
the  Inquisition  repeatedly  drew  them  before  their  tri- 
bunal as  suspected  of  heresy.  But  the  royal  favor  of 
the  three  Philips  (Philip  II,  III,  and  IV)  kept  their  in- 
fluence unimpaired.  In  Portugal,  Francis  Xavier  and 
Simon  Rodriguez  visited  Lisbon  on  their  way  to  India. 
They  w-ere  well  received  by  the  king,  and  Rodriguez 
was  induced  to  remain,  and  became  the  founder  of  a 
province,  which  soon  belonged  to  the  most  prosperous 
of  the  order. 


IV.  Suppression  of  the  Order  (1750-73). — In  the  mid- 
dle of  the  18th  century  the  order  was  at  the  zenith  of 
its  power.  As  confessors  of  most  of  the  reigning  princes 
and  a large  number  of  the  first  aristocratic  families,  and 
as  the  instructors  and  educators  of  the  children,  they 
■wielded  a controlling  influence  on  the  destinies  of  most 
of  the  Catholic  states.  At  the  same  time  they  had 
amassed  great  wealth,  which  they  tried  to  increase  by 
bold  commercial  speculations.  Both  influence  and  wealth 
they  used  with  untiring  energy,  and  with  a consistency 
of  which  the  history  of  the  world  hardly  knows  a par- 
allel, for  the  development  of  their  ultra  papal  system. 
In  point  of  doctrine,  extermination  of  Protestantism, 
and  every  form  of  belief  opposed  to  the  Church  of  Rome, 
and  within  the  Church  blind  and  immediate  submission 
to  the  doctrinal  decision  of  the  infallible  pope;  in  point 
of  ecclesiastical  polity,  the  weakening  of  the  episcopal 
for  the  benefit  of  the  papal  authority,  the  defence  of  the 
most  exorbitant  claims  of  the  popes  with  regard  to  sec- 
ular government,  and  a controlling  influence  upon  the 
popes  by  the  order— these  were  the  prominent  features 
of  the  Jesuit  system.  As  the  Jesuits  were  anxious  to 
crush  out  everything  opposed  to  the  Roman  Catholic 
l system,  as  they  understood  it,  it  was  natural  that  all 
these  elements  should,  in  self-defence,  combine  for  plan- 
ning the  destruction  of  so  formidable  an  antagonist.  As 
the  Jesuits  had  attained  their  influential  position  chief- 
ly through  the  favor  of  the  princes,  the  same  method 
was  adopted  for  crushing  them.  The  first  great  victory 
was  won  against  them  in  Portugal.  Sebastian  Jose 
Calvalho,  better  known  under  the  title  (which  he  re- 
ceived in  1770)  of  marquis  of  Pombal,  probably  the 
greatest  statesman  which  Portugal  has  ever  had,  was 
fully  convinced  that  commerce  and  industry,  and  all  the 
material  interests  of  the  country,  could  be  successfully 
developed  only  when  the  monarchy  and  the  nation  were 
withdrawn  from  the  depressing  connection  with  the  hi- 
erarchy and  the  nobility,  and  that  the  first  step  towards 
effecting  such  a revolution  was  the  removal  of  the  Jes- 
uits. Opportunities  for  disposing  the  king  against  the 
order  soon  offered.  In  Paraguay,  a portion  of  which 
had  in  1753  been  ceded  by  Spain  to  Portugal,  an  insur- 
rection of  the  natives  broke  out  against  the  new  rule. 
The  Jesuits,  according  to  their  own  accounts,  had  estab- 
lished in  Paraguay  a theocratic  form  of  government, 
which  gave  them  the  most  absolute  power  over  the 
minds  of  the  natives.  They  were  therefore  opposed  to 
the  cession  of  a portion  of  this  territory  to  Portugal,  and 
spared  no  efforts  to  prevent  it.  When,  therefore,  the 
natives  rose  generally  in  insurrection,  it  was  the  gen- 
eral opinion  that  an  insurrection  in  a country  like  Par- 
aguay was  impossible  without  at  least  the  connivance 
of  the  order.  The  Jesuits  themselves  denied,  however, 
all  participation  in  the  insurrection,  and  asserted  that 
the  provincial  of  the  order  in  Paraguay,  Barreda,  in 
loyal  compliance  with  the  order  of  the  general,  Visconti, 
had  endeavored  to  induce  the  natives  to  submit  to  the 
partition  of  the  country.  Pope  Benedict  XIV  was  pre- 
vailed upon  to  forbid  the  Jesuits  to  engage  in  commer- 
cial transactions  (1758),  and  the  patriarch  of  Lisbon, 
who  was  commissioned  by  the  pope  to  reform  them, 
withdrew  from  them  all  priestly  functions.  An  attempt 
i to  assassinate  the  king  (Sept.  3, 1758)  supplied  an  occa- 
sion for  impeaching  them  of  high  treason,  as  the  duke 
of  Aveiro,  when  tortured,  named  two  Jesuits  as  his  ac- 
complices. The  two  accused  denied  the  guilt,  and  the 
writers  of  the  order  generally  represent  the  whole  affair 
as  arranged  by  Pombal  in  order  to  give  him  a new  pre- 
text for  criminal  proceedings  against  the  order.  On 
Sept.  3,  1759,  a royal  decree  forever  excluded  the  order 
from  Portugal  and  confiscated  its  property.  Most  of  the 
members  were,  on  board  of  government  ships,  sent  to 
Italy;  and  one  of  their  prominent  members,  Malagrida, 
was  in  1761  burned  nt  the  stake.  The  pope,  in  vain, 
had  interceded  for  them ; the  nuncio  had  to  leave  the 
country  in  1760,  and  all  connection  with  Rome  was 
I broken  off. 


JESUITS 


869 


JESUITS 


In  France  the  numerous  enemies  of  the  order  found  a 
'welcome  opportunity  for  arousing  public  opinion  against 
it  in  the  commercial  speculations  of  the  Jesuit  Lava- 
lette,  the  superior  of  the  mission  of  Martinique.  When, 
in  the  war  between  France  and  England,  his  ships  were 
captured,  his  creditors  applied  for  payment  to  father  De 
Sacv,  the  procurator-general  of  all  the  Jesuit  missions 
in  Paris.  He  satisfied  them,  and  instructed  Lavalettc 
to  abstain  from  speculations  in  future.  When  Lavalettc 
disregarded  these  instructions,  and  when,  consequently, 
new  losses  occurred,  amounting  to  2,400,000  livres,  Sacy 
refused  to  hold  himself  responsible.  The  creditors  ap- 
plied to  the  Parliament,  whose  jurisdiction  was  (1700) 
recognised  by  the  Jesuits.  The  Parliament  demanded 
a copy  of  the  constitution  of  the  order  for  examination. 
On  April  IS,  1701,  a decree  of  Parliament  suppressed  the 
congregations  of  the  Jesuits;  on  May  8 the  whole  order 
was  declared  to  be  responsible  for  the  debt  of  Lavalette ; 
on  August  G the  constitution  of  the  order  was  declared 
to  be  an  encroachment  upon  Church  and  State,  twenty- 
four  works  of  Jesuit  authors  were  burned  as  heretical  and 
dangerous  to  good  morals,  and  the  order  was  excluded 
from  educational  institutions.  A protest  from  the  king 
(Aug.  29,  1761),  who  annulled  these  decrees  of  the  Par- 
liament for  one  year,  was  as  unavailing  as  the  interces- 
sion of  the  majority  of  the  French  bishops  and  of  pope 
Clement  XIII.  Other  Parliaments  of  France  followed 
the  example  given  hv  the  Paris  Parliament:  on  April 
1, 1762,  eighty  colleges  of  the  order  were  closed ; and  on 
August  6 a decree  of  the  Parliament  of  Paris  declared 
the  constitution  of  the  Jesuits  to  be  godless,  sacrilegious, 
and  injurious  to  Church  and  State,  and  the  vows  of  the 
order  to  be  null  and  void.  In  the  beginning  of  1764:  all 
the  members  were  ordered  to  forswear  their  vows,  and 
to  declare  that  their  constitution  was  punishable,  abom- 
inable, and  injurious.  Only  live  complied  with  this 
order ; among  them  father  Cerutti,  who  two  years  before 
had  written  the  best  apology  of  the  order.  On  Nov.  26, 
1764,  Choiseul  obtained  the  sanction  of  the  king  for  a 
decree  which  banished  the  Jesuits  from  France  as  dan- 
gerous to  the  state.  Clement  XIII,  the  steadfast  friend 
of  the  order,  replied  to  the  royal  decree  on  Jan.  8,  1765, 
by  the  bull  Apostolicnm , in  which  he  again  approved 
the  order  and  its  constitution. 

In  Spain,  Aranda,  the  minister  of  Charles  III,  was  as 
successful  as  Pombal  in  Portugal  and  Choiseul  in  France. 
During  the  night  from  Sept.  2 to  Sept.  3,  1768,  all  the 
Jesuits  of  the  kingdom,  about  6000  in  number,  were 
seized  ami  transported  to  the  papal  territory.  When 
the  pope  refused  to  receive  them,  they  were  landed  in 
Corsica,  where  they  remained  a few  months,  until,  in 
1768,  that  island  was  annexed  to  France.  They  were 
then  again  expelled,  and  this  time  found  refuge  in  the 
papal  territory.  In  Naples  from  3000  to  4000  Jesuits 
were  seized  in  the  night  from  Nov.  3 to  4, 1767,  by  order 
of  the  regent  Tanucci,  the  guardian  of  the  minor  Ferdi- 
nand IV,  and  likewise  transported  to  the  States  of  the 
Church.  The  government  of  Parma  seized  the  Jesuits 
on  Feb.  7,  1768,  because  the  pope,  claiming  to  be  the 
feudal  sovereign  of  Parma,  had  issued  a brief  declaring 
an  order  of  the  Parmese  government  (the  Pragmatic 
Sanction  of  Jan.  16,  1768)  null  and  void,  and  excom- 
municating its  authors.  All  the  Bourbon  courts  took 
sides  in  this  question  with  Parma,  forbade  the  publica- 
tion of  the  papal  brief,  and  when  Clement  XIII  refused 
to  repeal  it,  France  occupied  Avignon,  and  the  govern- 
ment of  Naples  Benevent  and  Pontecorvo.  At  the  same 
time,  the  grand  master  of  the  Knights  of  St.John,  Fon- 
seca, was  induced  to  seize  the  Jesuits  of  Malta  and 
transport  them  to  the  Papal  States.  When  Clement 
XIII,  who  had  steadfastly  refused  the  demand  of  the 
Bourbons  to  abolish  the  order  of  the  Jesuits  for  the 
whole  Church,  died,  on  Feb.  2,  1769,  there  was  a severe 
struggle  in  the  conclave  between  the  friends  (Zelanti) 
and  the  enemies  of  the  Jesuits.  The  demands  of  the 
French  ami  Spanish  ambassadors  to  pledge  the  new  pope 
that  he  would  abolish  the  order  were  firmly  repelled  by 


[the  College  of  Cardinals;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
ambassadors  succeeded  in  securing  the  election  of  car- 
dinal (Janganelli  (Clement  XIV),  who,  while  before  tne 
election  he  was  regarded  by  both  parties  as  a friend, 
soon  disclosed  an  intention  to  sacrifice  the  hated  order 
to  the  combined  demands  ami  threats  of  the  Bourbon 
! courts.  The  reconciliation  with  the  courts  of  Portugal 
and  Parma  was  obtained  by  making  to  them  great  con- 
cessions; the  brother  of  Pombal  was  appointed  cardinal ; 

! the  geueral  of  the  Jesuits,  Bicci,  was  alone,  among  all 
the  generals  of  religious  orders,  excluded  from  the  usual 
' embrace;  and  when  lie  solicited  the  favor  of  an  audience 
he  was  twice  refused.  Papal  letters  to  Louis  X V (Sept. 
30,  1769)  and  Charles  III  (Nov.  20)  admitted  the  guilt 
of  the  Jesuits  and  the  necessity  of  abolishing  the  order, 
but  asked  for  delay.  When,  on  July  4, 1772,  the.  mild 
Azpura  bad  been  succeeded  as  ambassador  of  Spain  by 
the  more  energetic  Joseph  Monino  (subsequently  count 
of  Florida  Blanca),  other  measures  against  the  order  fol- 
lowed in  more  rapid  succession.  In  September  the  Ito- 
man  college  was  closed,  in  November  the  college  at 
Frascati.  At  last  the  brief  Doniinus  uc  Redemptor  nos- 
ter  (which  had  been  signed  on  July  21,  at  three  o’clock 
in  the  morning)  announced  on  August  16  to  the  whole 
world  the  abolition  of  the  order,  on  the  ground  that  the 
peace  of  the  Church  required  such  a step. 

IV.  From  the  Abolition  of  the  Order  until  its  Restora- 
tion, 1773-1814. — The  suppression  of  the  order  in  the 
city  of  Borne  was  carried  through  with  particular  sever- 
ity by  a committee  of  live  cardinals  and  two  prelates, 
all  of  them  violent  enemies  of  the  order.  The  general, 
Bicci,  bis  five  assistants,  and  several  other  Jesuits,  were, 
thrown  into  prison,  where  they  had  to  remain  for  several 
years.  Pius  VI  confirmed  the  decree  of  abolition,  and 
did  not  dare  to  release  the  imprisoned  Jesuits;  when, 
finally,  they  were  released,  they  had  to  promise  to  ob- 
serve silence  with  regard  to  their  trial.  Some  of  them 
took  the  demanded  oath,  but  others  refused.  The  gen- 
eral. Bicci,  had  previously  died,  Nov.  24,  1775,  emphat- 
ically asserting  bis  own  and  the  order’s  innocence.  The 
brief  of  abolition  was  received  with  great  satisfaction  in 
Portugal.  Spain  and  Naples  were  dissatisfied  because 
they  wished  a bull  of  excommunication  (as  a more 
weighty  expression  of  the  papal  sentence)  instead  of  a 
brief.  In  Germany,  where  the  empress  Maria  Theresa 
had  long  opposed  the  abolition  of  the  order,  the  brief 
was  promulgated,  but  the  Jesuits,  after  laving  down  the 
habit  of  the  order,  were  allowed  to  live  together  in  their 
former  colleges  as  societies  of  secular  priests.  In  France 
the  brief  was  not  officially  promulgated,  and  the  Jesuits, 
otherwise  so  ultra  papal  in  their  views  of  the  validity 
of  papal  briefs,  now  inferred  from  this  circumstance  that 
the  order  had  not  been  abolished  in  France  at  all.  In 
Prussia  Frederick  II  forbade  the  promulgation  of  the 
brief,  and  in  1775  obtained  permission  from  Pins  VI  to 
leave  the  Jesuits  undisturbed.  Soon,  however,  to  please 
I the  Bourbon  courts,  the  Prussian  Jesuits  were  requested 
to  lay  aside  the  dress  of  the  order,  and  Frederick  Wil- 
liam  II  abolished  all  their  houses.  In  Bussia  Catlia- 
I rine  II  also  forbade  the  promulgation  of  the  brief,  and 
ordered  the  Jesuits  to  continue  their  organization.  The 
Jesuits  reasoned  that,  since  the  brief  in  Borne  itself 
' had  not  been  published  in  due  form,  they  had  a right  to 
comply  with  the  imperial  request  until  the  brief  should 
be  communicated  to  them  by  the  bishops  of  the  dio- 
ceses. This  official  communication  was  never  made, 

, and  Clement  XIV  himself,  in  a secret  letter  to  the  em- 
press, permitted  the  continuation  of  the  Jesuit  colleges 
i in  Russia.  When  the  archbishop  of  Mohilev,  in  1779, 

I authorized  the  Jesuits  to  open  a novitiate,  Pius  VI  was 
prevailed  upon  by  the  Bourbon  courts  to  represent  the 
step  taken  by  the  Russian  bishop  as  unauthorized; 

! orally,  however,  as  the  Jesuits  maintain,  he  repeatedly 
I confirmed  what  officially  he  had  disowned.  Thus  the 
| Jesuits  attempt  to  clear  themselves  from  the  charge  of 
having  disobeyed  the  pope,  by  charging  the  latter  with 
I deliberate  duplicity.  The  Russian  Jesuits  were  placed 


870 


JESUITS 


JESUITS 

under  the  vice-generals  Czerniewicz  (1782-85),  Lienkic-  ; 1822,  twenty-five  of  them  were  killed;  but  when  the 
w'*ez  (1785-1)8)  and  Careu  (1799-1802).  The  brief  of  insurrection  was  in  1824  subdued  by  the  French,  the 
Clement  XIV  was  in  1801  repealed  by  Tins  VII,  so  far  Jesuits  returned.  In  the  civil  war  of  1834  they  were 
as  Russia  was  concerned,  and  the  next  superior  of  the  again  expelled ; in  Madrid  a fearful  riot  was  excited 
liussi  in  Jesuits,  Gabriel  Gruber  (1802-5),  assumed  the  against  them  by  the  report  that  they  had  poisoned  the 
title  of  a o-ener’al  for  Kussia,  and  since  July  31,  1804,  wells,  and  fourteen  were  massacred.  On  July  7,  1835, 
also  lhr  Naples.  The  successor  of  Gruber,  Brzozowski  the  order  was  abolished  in  the  Spanish  dominions  by  a 
(1x05-20),  lived  to  see  the  restoration  of  the  order  by  decree  of  the  Cortes.  Since  1848  they  began  silently 
the  pope/  Soon  after  (1815)  the  persecution  of  the  or-  to  return,  but  the  law,  which  had  not  been  repealed,  was 
der  began  in  Kussia;  Dec.  20,  1815,  they  were  expelled  again  enforced  against  them  by  the  revolution  of  1868. 
from  St.  Petersburg,  in  1820  from  all  Russia.  In  other  Only  in  Cuba  they  remained  undisturbed.  To  Portugal 
countries  of  Europe  the  ex-Jesuits  had  formed  societies  the  Jesuits  were  recalled  by  Dorn  Miguel  in  1829,  and 
which  were  to  serve  as  substitutes  of  the  abolished  or-  in  1832  they  received  the  college  of  Coimbra,  w here 
der.  In  Belgium  the  ex-Jesuits  De  Broglie  and  Tour-  they  numbered  the  great-grandson  of  Pombal  among 
nely  established  in  1794  the  Society  of  the  Sacred  Heart  their  pupils.  After  the  overthrow  of  Dorn  Miguel,  the 
of  Jesus,  which,  after  its  expulsion  from  Belgium,  estab-  laws  of  Pombal  were  again  enforced  against  them  by 
lished  its  centre  in  Austria.  In  accordance  with  the  Dom  Pedro,  and  ever  since  they  have  been  excluded 
wish  of  the  pope,  and  through  the  mediation  of  arch-  from  Portugal.  In  France  a number  of  bishops  ex- 
bishop Migazzi,  of  Vienna,  this  society,  under  the  sue-  pressed,  immediately  after  the  restoration  of  the  order, 
eessor  of  Tournelv  (f  1797),  father  Varin,  united,  on  a desire  to  place  the  boys’ seminaries  under  their  charge, 
April  8,  1799,  with  the  Baecanarists  (q.  v.),  or  Fathers  and  Talleyrand  declared  himself  in  favor  of  their  legal 
of  the  Faith  of  Jesus.  Under  this  name  Baccanari  (or  restoration,  but  the  king  did  not  consent.  Neverthe- 


Paccanari),  a layman  of  Trent,  had,  in  union  with  sev- 
eral ex-Jesuits,  established  in  1798  a society  in  Italy, 
which,  after  the  union  with  the  Society  of  the  Sacred 
Heart  of  Jesus,  made  considerable  progress  in  Italy, 
France,  Germany,  and  England.  Most  of  the  members 
hoped  gradually  to  smooth  the  way  for  a reunion  with 
the  Jesuits  in  Russia;  but  as  Baccanari,  who  in  the 
mean  while  had  become  a priest,  did  not  appear  to  be 
in  sincere  sympathy  with  this  project,  he  was  abandon- 
ed by  many  members  and  by  whole  houses.  In  1807 
he  was  even  arrested  by  order  of  Pius  VII,  but  the 
French  liberated  him  in  1809,  since  which  year  he  en- 
tirely disappears.  The  last  house  of  the  society,  that 
of  St.  Sylvester,  in  Rome,  joined  the  restored  Jesuits  in 
1811, 

V.  History  of  the  Order  from  its  Restoration  in  1814 
to  1871. — Soon  afeer  his  return  from  the  French  captiv- 
ity, Pius  VII  promulgated  (Aug.  7, 1814)  the  bull  Sol- 
licitudo  omnium  ecclesiarum,  by  which  he  restored  the 
order  of  the  Jesuits  for  the  whole  earth.  Father  Paniz- 
zone,  in  the  name  of  the  general  of  the  order,  Brozow- 
ski,  who  resided  in  Russia,  received  back  from  the  pope 
the  church  Al  Gesu,in  Rome.  When  Brozowski  died, 
the  order  had  to  pass  through  a severe  trial.  The  vicar- 
general,  father  Petrucci,  in  union  with  father  Pietroboni, 
tried  to  curtail  the  electoral  freedom  of  the  General  Con- 
gregation, and  his  plans  were  supported  by  cardinal 
Della  Genga;  but  the  other  members  invoked  the  inter- 
vention of  the  pope,  and,  freedom  of  election  having 
been  secured,  elected  as  general  father  Fords,  of  Verona 
(1820-29),  who  was  succeeded  by  father  Roothan,  of 
Amsterdam  (1829-53),  and  father  Becks,  a Belgian  (elect- 
ed July  2,  1853).  Within  a few  years  after  the  resto- 
ration the  order  had  again  established  itself  in  all  parts 
of  Italy.  Ferdinand  III,  in  1815,  called  them  to  Mode- 
na; and  the  ex-king  of  Sardinia,  Emanuel  IV,  entered 
the  order  in  1815;  he  died  in  1819.  The  fear  which 
the  election  of  cardinal  Della  Genga  as  pope  in  1823 
caused  to  the  order  proved  to  he  ungrounded,  for  the 
new  pope  (Leo  XII)  was  henceforth  the  warm  patron 
of  the  Jesuits,  and  restored  to  them  the  Roman  college 
(482 1).  They  were  expelled  from  Naples  and  Piedmont 
in  consequence  of  the  revolutionary  movements  in  1820 
and  1821,  but  were  soon  restored.  In  1830  they  were  ad- 
mitted to  the  Lombardo- Venetian  kingdom,  and  in  Ve- 
rona cardinal  Odescalchi  in  1838  entered  the  novitiate, 
hut  died  in  1841.  General  Roothan  witnessed  the  expul- 
siuu  of  the  Jesuits  from  all  Italy,  and  even  from  Rome, 
in  18  18,  buthe  lived  to  see  their  restoration  in  Naples 
and  Rome  in  1850.  The  war  of  1859  again  destroyed 
the  provinces  of  Naples  and  Sicily;  in  18GG  also  Venice. 
In  Spain,  Ferdinand  ATI,  by  decree  of  May  15, 1815,  de- 
clared the  charges  which  former  Spanish  governments 
had  made  against  the  Jesuits  false.  The  revolution  of 
1820  drove  them  from  their  houses,  and  on  Nov.  17, 


less,  the  number  and  the  influence  of  the  Jesuits  stead- 
ily increased,  and  they  labored  witli  particidar  zeal  for 
the  restoration  of  the  Church  of  Rome  by  means  of 
holding  “missions.”  They  re-established  the  “congre- 
gations” among  the  laymen,  and  other  religious  associa- 
tions. In  182G  they  had  two  novitiates,  two  residences, 
and  eight  colleges,  the  most  celebrated  of  which  was  St. 
Aeheul.  La  Mcnnais  in  vain  endeavored  to  gain  the 
Jesuits  for  his  revolutionary  ideas.  As  all  the  liberal 
parties,  and  even  many  Legitimists,  like  count  Montlo- 
sier,  united  for  combating  the  Jesuits,  royal  ordinances 
of  July  10,  1828,  took  from  the  Jesuits  all  their  schools, 
and  limited  the  number  of  pupils  in  the  boys’  semina- 
ries to  20,000.  The  revolution  of  July,  1830,  dissolved 
all  the  houses  of  the  order,  and  drove  all  the  members 
out  of  France;  but  gradually  many  returned,  and  Ra- 
vignan,  in  Paris,  gained  the  reputation  of  being  one  of 
the  first  pulpit  orators  of  his  country.  On  motion  of 
Thiers,  the  Chamber  of  Deputies,  in  1845,  requested  the 
government  to  abolish  the  order  in  France;  but  the 
government  preferred  to  send  a special  ambassador 
(Rossi)  to  Rome  in  order  to  obtain  the  suppression  of 
the  Jesuits  from  the  pope.  Gregory  XAT  declined  to 
make  any  direct  concessions,  but  the  general  of  the  or- 
der deemed  it  best  to  reduce  the  number  of  members  in 
France  in  order  to  evade  the  storm  rising  against  the 
order.  The  revolution  of  1848,  the  government  of 
Louis  Napoleon,  and  the  revolution  of  1870,  left  them 
undisturbed,  and  they  were  allowed  to  erect  a consider- 
able number  of  colleges  in  the  four  provinces  into  which 
France  is  divided.  In  England  the  Jesuits  continued, 
after  the  abolition  of  the  order,  to  live  in  common.  In 
1790  they  received  from  Thomas  AA'eld  the  castle  of 
Stonyhurst,  which  soon  became  one  of  the  most  popular 
educational  institutions  of  the  English  Roman  Catholics. 

In  1803  they  were  allowed  to  join  the  Russian  branch 
of  the  order.  In  Belgium  the  Fathers  of  the  Faith 
joined  in  1814  the  restored  order.  The  Dutch  govern- 
ment expelled  the  Jesuits,  but  they  returned  after  the 
Belgian  revolution  of  1830,  and  soon  became  very  nu- 
merous. The  Jesuits  who  in  1820  had  been  expelled 
from  Russia,  came  to  Gallieia,  and  opened  colleges  at  ( 
Tarnopol  and  Lemberg.  Others  were  called  to  Him-  * 
gary  by  the  archbishop  of  Colocza,  and  father  Landes 
made  his  appearance  in  ATenna.  As  they  secured  the 
special  patronage  of  the  emperor  and  the  imperial  fam- 
ily, they  gained  a great  influence,  and  were,  as  in  all 
other  countries,  regarded  by  the  Liberal  party  as  the 
most  dangerous  enemies  of  religious  and  civil  liberty. 
They  were  therefore  expelled  hv  the  revolution  of  1848, 
but  returned  again  when  the  revolutionary  movement 
was  subdued,  and  received  from  the  Austrian  govern- 
ment in  1857  the  theological  faculty  of  the  University 
of  Innspruck.  To  Switzerland  eight  Fathers  of  the 
Faith  were  in  1805  called  from  Rome  by  the  govern- 


JESUITS 


871 


JESUITS 


ment  of  Yalais.  They  soon  broke  off  the  connection 
with  Baccanari,  and  in  1810  were  incorporated  with  the 
society  in  I Jussi  a.  After  the  restoration  of  the  order, 
they  soon  established  colleges  in  other  Catholic  cantons, 
particularly  in  Freiburg,  Lucerne,  and  Seliwvtz.  When 
the  government  of  the  canton  of  Lucerne,  on  Oct.  24, 
1844,  resolved  to  place  the  episcopal  seminary  of  the 
city  of  Lucerne  under  the  charge  of  the  Jesuits,  two 
volunteer  expeditions  (Dec.  1844,  and  March,  1845) 
were  undertaken  for  the  purpose  of  overthrowing  the 
goverment  of  Lucerne,  but  both  were  unsuccessful.  As 
most  of  the  I’rotcstant  cantons  demanded  the  expulsion 
of  the  Jesuits  from  the  whole  of  Switzerland,  those  can- 
tons which  cither  had  called  Jesuits  to  cantonal  institu- 
tions or  which  patronized  them  (namely,  Lucerne,  Uri, 
Scliwvtz,  Unterwalden,  Zug,  Freiburg,  and  Yalais) 
strengthened  a separate  alliance  (the  “ Sonderbund”), 
which  had  already  been  formed  in  1843,  ami  appointed 
a council  of  war  lor  the  emergency  of  a civil  conflict. 
In  September,  1847,  the  Federal  Diet  decreed  the  disso- 
lution of  the  Sonderbund  and  the  expulsion  of  the  Jes- 
uits, and  when  the  seven  cantons  refused  submission,  the 
Sonderbund  war  broke  out,  which,  in  November,  1847, 
ended  in  the  defeat  of  the  Sonderbund  and  the  expul- 
sion of  the  Jesuits.  The  revised  federal  constitution 
of  Switzerland  forbids  the  establishment  of  any  Jesuit 
settlement.  From  the  German  States,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  Austria,  the  Jesuits  remained  excluded  until  the 
revolutionary  movements  of  1848  established  the  prin- 
ciple of  religious  liberty,  and  gained  for  them  admission 
to  all  the  states,  in  particular  to  Prussia,  where  they  es- 
tablished in  rapid  succession  houses  in  Munster,  Pader- 
born,  Aix-la-Chapelle,  Cologne,  Bonn,  Coblentz,  Treves, 
and  other  cities.  They  gained  a considerable  influence 
on  the  Catholic  population  in  particular  by  holding 
numerous  missions  in  all  parts  of  Germany. 

The  membership  of  the  order,  during  the  period  from 
1841  to  18GG,  increased  from  35GG  to  8155.  At  the  be- 
ginning of  1867  the  numerical  strength  of  the  order  was 
as  follows : 


Assistant's  District. 

Province. 

| Tufunbrs.j  Priests. 

1.  Italy 

1.  Rome 

4s3 

245 

2.  Naples  (scattered).. 

3.  Sicily  (scattered)... 

352 

194 

222 

141 

4.  Turin  (scattered). . . 

2112 

173 

5.  Venice  (scattered).. 

223 

12S 

2.  Gennany 

1.  Austria 

443 

160 

2.  Belgium 

CO  2 

260 

3.  Gallicia 

185 

70 

4.  Germany 

053 

260 

5.  Holland 

2«3 

95 

3.  France 

1.  Champagne 

566 

224 

2.  Paris  .v 

G50 

3C6 

3.  Lyons 

702 

316 

4.  Toulouse 

540 

271 

4.  Spaiu 

1.  Aragon  (scattered). 

492 

144 

2.  Castile  (scattered). 

70S 

183 

3.  Mexico  (scattered). 

IS 

10 

5.  England 

1.  England 

312 

151 

2.  Ireland 

167 

77 

3.  Maryland 

23S 

SO 

4.  Missouri 

204 

75 

Total,  21  provinces,  8331  members  (3563  priests,  2332 
scholastics,  and  2436  brothers). 

YI.  The  Labors  of  the  Order  in  the  Missionary  Field. 

—From  the  beginning  of  the  order,  the  extension  of  the 
Church  of  Rome  in  pagan  countries  constituted  one  of 
the  chief  aims  of  the  Jesuits,  whose  zeal  in  this  field 
was  all  the  greater,  as  they  hoped  that  here  the  losses 
inflicted  upon  the  Church  by  Protestantism  would  be 
more  than  balanced  by  new  gains.  The  energy  which 
they  have  displayed  as  foreign  missionaries  is  recognised 
on  all  sides;  the  spirit  of  devotion  and  self-sacrifice  of 
many  of  tht%  members,  which  is  illustrated  by  the 
martyrdom  of  about  800  of  the  order,  has  also  met  with 
deserved  recognition  even  among  Protestants.  On  the 
other  hand,  within  their  own  Church,  charges  were 
brought  against  Jesuit  missions,  as  a class,  that  they 
received  candidates  for  baptism  too  easily,  and  without 
having  sufficient  proofs  of  their  real  conversion,  and 


that  they  were  too  accommodating  to  pagan  views  ana 
customs.  These  charges  led  to  long  controversies  be- 
tween the  Jesuits  ami  other  monastic  orders,  and  to 
several  decisions  of  the  popes  against  them.  In  India, 
the  first  missionary  ground  occupied  by  the  Jesuits, 
Xavier  and  his  companions,  Camero  and  Mansilla,  in- 
duced a large  number  of  natives  to  join  the  Church  of 
Rome.  In  Travancore  forty  churches  had  to  be  built 
for  the  converts,  and  Francis  Xavier  is  reported  to  have 
baptized  10,000  pagans  within  one  month.  As  it  v'as 
soon  discovered  that  the  chief  obstacle  to  the  mission 
was  the  rigid  caste  system,  the  Jesuits  concluded  to  let 
some  members  of  the.  order  adopt  the  mode  of  life  of  the 
Brahmins,  and  others  that  of  other  castes.  According- 
ly, the  Jesuits  Fernandez,  De  Nobili,  and  others  began 
to  practice  the  painful  penances  of  the  Brahmins,  en- 
deavored even  to  outdo  them  in  the  ligor  of  these  pen- 
ances, and  thus,  making  the  people  believe  that  they 
were  Brahmins,  or  Indians  of  other  castes,  they  made  in 
some  districts  considerable  progress.  The  Catholic  con- 
gregations in  Madura,  Carnatc,  Mogar,  and  Ceylon  are 
said  to  have  numbered  a native  population  of  upwards 
of  150,000.  Japan  was  also  visited  by  Francis  Xavier, 
who  arrived  there  with  two  other  missionaries  in  1549. 
They  gained  the  favor  of  several  Daimios,  and,  with 
their  efficient  aid,  made  considerable  progress.  In  1575 
the  number  of  Roman  Catholics  was  estimated  at  40,000 ; 
in  1582  three  Christian  Daimios  sent  ambassadors  to 
pope  Gregory  XIII;  in  1613  they  had  houses  of  pro- 
fessed at  Nagasaki,  Miaco,  and  Fakata,  colleges  at  Na- 
gasaki and  Arima,  and  residences  at  Oasaca  and  seven 
other  places.  During  the  persecution  which  broke  out 
in  the  17tli  century  and  extirpated  Christianity,  more 
than  a hundred  members  of  the  order  perished,  together 
with  more  than  a million  of  native  Christians.  The 
first  Catholic  missionaries  in  China  were  the  Jesuits 
Roger  and  Ricci.  The  latter  and  several  of  his  success- 
ors, in  particular  father  Adam  Schall,  gained  considera- 
ble influence  upon  the  emperors  by  means  of  their 
knowledge  of  astronomy  and  Chinese  literature,  and  the 
number  of  those  whom  they  admitted  to  the  Church 
was  estimated  as  early  as  1663  at  300,000.  They  show- 
ed, however,  so  great  an  accommodation  with  regard  to 
the  pagan  customs  that  they  were  denounced  in  Rome 
by  other  missionaries,  and  several  popes,  in  particular 
Benedict  XIY,  condemned  their  practices.  In  Cochin 
China  the  first  Jesuits  arrived  in  1614,  in  Tunkin  in 
1627.  In  both  countries  they  succeeded,  in  spite  of 
cruel  persecutions,  in  establishing  a number  of  congre- 
gations which  survived  the  downfall  of  the  order.  They 
met  with  an  equal  success  in  the  Philippine  Islands,  and 
in  the  Marianas;  but  their  labors  on  the  Caroline  Isl- 
ands were  a failure.  Their  labors  in  Abyssinia,  Moroc- 
co, anti  other  parts  of  Africa,  likewise,  did  not  produce 
any  lasting  results.  Congo  and  Angola  were  nominally 
converted  to  Christianity  by  Jesuit  and  other  missiona- 
ries, but  even  Roman  Catholic  writers  must  admit  that 
the  religion  of  the  mass  of  the  population  differed  bnt 
little  from  paganism,  into  which  they  easily  relapsed  as 
soon  as  they  found  themselves  without  European  mis- 
sionaries. In  1549,  Ignatius  Loyola,  at  the  request  of 
king  John  III  of  Portugal,  sent  Emanuel  de  Nobrega 
and  four  other  Jesuits  to  Brazil,  where  they  gathered 
many  man-eating  Indians  in  villages,  and  civilized 
them.  Among  the  many  Jesuits  who  followed  these 
pioneer  missionaries,  Joseph  de  Anchieta  (f  1597)  and 
the  celebrated  pulpit  orator  Anthony  Yieira  (about  the 
middle  of  the  17th  century’)  are  the  most  noted.  Among 
the  Jesuits  who  labored  in  the  American  provinces  of 
Spain  was  Peter  Claver,  who  is  said  to  have  baptized 
more  thau  300,000  negroes,  and  is  called  the  apostle  < f 
the  negroes.  In  1580  they  were  called  by  the  bishop 
of  Tucuman  to  Paraguay,  which  soon  became  the  most 
prosperous  of  all  their  missions.  The  Christian  tribes 
were  gathered  by  the  missionaries  into  the  so-called 
missions,  and  in  173G  the  tribe  of  the  Guaranis  alone 
numbered  in  thirty-two  towns  from  30,000  to  40,00(1 


JESUITS  S' 

families.  When,  in  1753,  the  Spaniards  ceded  seven 
reductions  to  Portugal,  and  30,000  Indians  were  ordered 
to  leave  their  villages,  an  insurrection  broke  out,  which 
led  to  the  expulsion  of  the  Jesuits  by  the  Spanish  gov- 
ernment. In  Mexico  the  Jesuits  joined  in  1572  the 
other  monastic  orders  in  the  missionary  work.  They 
directed  their  attention  chiefly  to  the  unsubdued  tribes, 
and  in  1680  numbered  500  missionaries  in  70  missionary 
stations.  The  Jesuit  Salvatierra  and  his  companion 
Paeolo  in  1607  gained  firm  footing  in  California,  where 
thev  gradually  established  sixteen  stations.  In  New 
California,  which  was  first  discovered  by  the  Jesuit 
Kuhn,  they  encountered  more  than  usual  obstacles,  but 
gradually  the  number  of  their  stations  rose  to  fourteen. 
In  Florida  they  met  with  hardly  any  success.  In  New 
France,  where  the  first  Jesuit  missionary  appeared  in 
161],  father  Brebeuf  became  the  first  apostle  of  the  IIii- 
rons.  The  Abenakis  were  fully  Christianized  in  1680; 
subsequently  nearly  the  whole  tribe  of  the  Illinois,  on 
the  Mississippi,  was  baptized.  In  Eastern  Europe  and 
in  Asia  Minor  the  Jesuits  succeeded  in  inducing  a num- 
ber of  Greeks  and  Armenians  to  recognise  the  suprem- 
acy of  the  pope.  After  the  restoration  of  the  order  the 
Jesuits  resumed  their  missionary  labors  with  great  zeal. 

VII.  The  Work  at  Home. — While  abroad  the  order 
was  endeavoring  to  extend  the  territory  of  the  Church, 
their  task  at  home  was  to  check  the  further  progress  of 
Protestantism,  and  every  other  form  of  opposition  to  the 
Church  of  Pome,  and  to  become  within  the  Church  the 
most  powerful  organization.  They  regarded  the  pulpit 
as  one  of  the  best  means  to  establish  an  influence  over  the 
mass  of  the  Catholic  people,  and  many  members  gained 
considerable  reputation  as  pulpit  orators.  I’ourd  alone, 
Bavignan,  and  Felix  in  France,  Segneri  in  Italy,  Tolet 
in  Spain,  Yievra  in  Portugal,  were  regarded  as  among 
the  best  pulpit  orators  in  those  countries;  but,  on  the 
whole,  the  effect  of  their  preaching  was  more  sensational 
than  lasting.  In  order  to  train  the  youth  in  the  princi- 
ples of  rigid  ultramontanism,the  constitution  of  the  order 
enjoined  upon  the  members  to  cultivate  with  particular 
zeal  eatecheties.  A large  number  of  catechisms  were  ac- 
cordingly compiled  by  Jesuit,  authors,  among  which  those 
of  Canisius  and  cardinal  Bellarmine  gained  the  greatest 
reputation  and  the  widest  circulation.  In  modern  times 
the  gradual  introduction  of  the  catechism  of  the  Jesuit 
Deharbc  by  the  ultramontane  bishops  is  believed  to 
have  been  one  of  the  chief  instruments  in  the  revival 
of  ultramontane  principles  among  the  German  people. 
As  confessors,  the  Jesuits  were  famous  for  their  indul- 
gent and  lax  conduct  not  only  towards  licentious  princes, 
but  towards  all  who,  in  their  opinion,  might  be  expect- 
ed to  benefit  the  order.  In  their  works  on  moral  theol- 
ogy they  developed  a comparatively  new  branch,  cas- 
uistry; and  many  of  their  writers  developed  on  the 
theory  of  Probubilism  (q.v.)  ideas  which  a large  portion 
of  the  Church  indignantly  repudiated  as  dangerous  in- 
novations, and  which,  in  some  instances,  even  the  popes 
deemed  it  necessary  to  censure.  In  order  to  effect  among 
their  adherents  as  strict  an  organization  as  the  order 
itself  possessed,  so-called  “congregations”  were  formed 
among  their  students,  and  among  all  classes  of  society, 
who  obeyed  the  directions  of  the  order  as  absolutely  as 
its  own  members.  Wherever  there  were  or  are  houses 
of  Jesuits,  there  is  a Jesuitic  party  among  the  laity 
which  pursues  the  same  aims  as  the  order.  Thus  the 
Jesuits  have  become  a power  wherever  they  have  estab- 
lished themselves,  while,  on  the  other  hand,  the  fanati- 
cism invariably  connected  with  their  movements  has 
always  and  naturally  produced  against  them  a spirit  of 
bitterness  and  hatred  which  has  never  manifested  itself 
to  the  same  degree  against  any  other  institution  of  the 
Homan  Catholic  Church.  The  importance  of  schools 
for  gaining  an  influence  upon  society  was  appreciated 
by  the  Jesuits  more  highly  than  had  ever  before  been 
the  case  in  the  Homan  Catholic  Church.  The  most  fa- 
mous ot  their  educational  institutions  was  the  Homan 
College  (Collegium  Jionutnum).  Paul  IV  conferred  upon 


2 JESUITS 

it  in  1556  the  rank  and  privileges  of  a university;  Greg- 
ory XIII.  in  1581,  a princely  dotation.  In  1584  it  num- 
bered 2107  pupils.  Eight  of  its  pupils  (Urban  VIII, 
Innocent  X,  Clement  IX.  Clement  X,  Innocent  XII, 
Clement  XI,  Innocent  XIII,  and  Clement  XII)  ascended 
the  papal  throne;  several  others  (Alovsius  of  Gonzaga, 
Camillus  of  Lellis,  Leonardo  of  Porto  Maurizio)  were 
enrolled  among  the  canonized  saints.  In  1710  the  Jes- 
uits conferred  the  academical  degrees  at  24  universities 
and  612  colleges,  and  157  boarding-schools  were  under 
their  management.  After  the  restoration  of  the  order 
the  Jesuits  displayed  the  same  zeal  in  establishing 
schools  and  colleges,  and  have  revived  their  reputation 
of  strict  disciplinarians,  who  know  how  to  curb  the  im- 
petuosity and  passions  of  youth;  but  neither  in  the  for- 
mer nor  in  the  present  period  of  their  history  have  they 
been  able  to  raise  one  of  their  schools  to  that  degree  of 
eminence  which,  as  in  the  case  of  some  of  the  German 
universities,  must  be  admitted  by  friend  and  foe.  The 
number  of  writers  which  the  order  has  produced  is  im- 
mense. As  early  as  1608  Kibadenevra  published  a cat- 
alogue of  the  writers  of  the  order  containing  167  pages. 
Alegambe  (1643)  and  Southwell  (1675)  extended  it  into 
a large  volume  in  folio.  More  recently  the  Belgian 
Jesuits  Augustine  and  Aloys  de  Backer  began  a bibliog- 
raphy of  the  order,  which,  though  not  yet  completed, 
numbered  in  1870  seven  volumes  (quarto).  A new  edi- 
tion of  this  work,  to  be  published  in  three  volumes  (in 
folio),  is  in  the  course  of  preparation.  The  following 
writers  of  the  order  belong  among  those  who  are  best 
known  : Bellarmine,  Less,  Molina,  Petavius,  Suarez,  To- 
let, Vasquez,  Maldonat,  Salmeron,  Cornelius  a Lapide, 
Hardouin,  Labbe,  Sirmond,  the  Bollandists,  Mariana, 
Perronc,  Passaglia,  Gury,  Secchi  (astronomer).  Quite 
recently  the  order  has  also  attempted  to  establish  its  own 
organs  in  the  province  of  periodical  literature.  Publica- 
tions of  this  kind  are  the  semi-monthly  Cirilta  Cuttolica 
of  Home,  which  is  generally  regarded  as  the  most  daring 
expounder  of  the  principles  of  the  most  advanced  ultra- 
montane school ; Etudes  historiques  of  France,  The  Mouth 
in  England,  and  the  Stimmen  von  Maria  Loach  (a  month- 
ly published  by  the  Jesuits  of  Maria  Laaeh  since  August, 
1871)  in  Germany. 

VIII.  Some  Errors  concerning  the  Jesvits. — As  the 

Jesuits,  by  their  systematic  fanaticism,  provoked  a vio- 
lent opposition  on  the  part  of  all  opponents  of  ultra- 
montane Catholicism,  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that 
occasionally  groundless  charges  were  brought  against 
them,  and  that  some  of  these  were  readily  believed. 
Among  the  erroneous  charges  which  at  one  time  have 
had  a wide  circulation,  but  from  which  the  best  histo- 
rians now  acquit  them,  are  the  following:  1.  That  they 
are  responsible  for  the  sentiments  contained  in  the  fa- 
mous volume  Manila  Secretu  (q.  v.).  This  work  was 
not  written  by  a Jesuit,  but  is  a satire,  the  author  of 
which  was,  however,  as  familiar  with  the  movements 
of  the  Jesuits  as  with  their  history  (see  Gieseler,  Kirch- 
engesch.  iii,  2,  656  sq.).  2.  That  the  superior  of  the  or- 

der has  the  power  to  order  a member  to  commit  a sin. 
It  is  now  generally  admitted  that  the  passage  of  the 
constitution  on  which  the  charge  is  based  ( visum  tst  no- 
bis nullas  const itutiones  declarationes  vil  ordinem  ullum 
vicendi  posse  obligationem  ad  peceatum  inducere , nisi 
Sujyei'ior  e&juberet)  has  been  misunderstood.  3.  That 
the  order  holds  to  the  maxim  that  “ the  end  justifies  the 
means.”  Although  many  works  of  Jesuits  (in  particu- 
lar those  on  tyrannicide)  were  well  calculated  to  instil 
such  an  opinion  into  the  minds  of  the  reader,  the  order 
has  never  expressly  taught  it. 

IX.  Literature.—' The  number  of  works  on  the  Jesuits 
is  legion.  The  titles  of  most  may  be  found  in  Carayon, 
Bibliographic  hist,  de  la  Comp,  de  Jesus  (Paris,  1864). 
The  most  important  work  in  favor  of  the  Jesuits  is  Cre- 
tincau-Joly,  Hist,  de  la  Comp,  de  Jesus  (3d  cd.  Par.  1859, 
6 vols.).  The  best  that  has  been  written  on  the  subject 
are  the  chapters  concerning  the  Jesuits  in  Banke’s  work 
on  the  Homan  popes,  (A.  J.  S.) 


JESURUN 


873 


JESUS  CHRIST 


Jes'urun  (Isa.  xliv,  2).  See  Jeshukux. 

Je'sus  (’I?j<roDe,  Gen.,  Dat.,  and  Voc.  -oD,  Acc.  -ovv, 
from  the  Ileb.  Yesliu'a,  “Joshua”  or  “Joshua;” 

Syr.  Yeshu),  the  name  of  several  persons  (besides  our 
Saviour)  in  the  New  Testament,  the  Apocrypha,  and  Jo- 
sephus. For  a discussion  of  the  full  import  and  applica- 
tion of  the  name,  see  Jesus  Christ. 

1.  Joshua  (q.  v.)  the  son  of  Nun  (2  Esdr.  vii,  37 ; 
Ecclus.  xlvi,  1 ; 1 Mace,  ii,  55 ; Acts  vii,  45 ; lleb.  iv,  8 ; 
so  also  Josephus,  passim). 

2.  Josiiua,  or  Jesiiua  (q.  v.)  the  priest,  the  son  of 
Jchozadakfl  Esdr. v, 5,8, 24,48, 56,68,70;  vi,2;  ix,19; 
Ecclus.  xlix,  12 ; so  also  Josephus,  Ant.  xi,3, 10  sq.). 

3.  Jesiiua  (q.  v.)  the  Levite  (1  Esdr.  v,  58;  ix,  48). 

4.  JESUS,  THE  SON  OF  SIRACH  (lyaovg  viog 
Etiprtx;  Vulgate  Jesus  Jitius  Switch),  is  described  in  the 
text  of  Ecelesiasticus  (1,  27)  as  the  author  of  that  book, 
which  in  the  Sept.,  and  generally  in  the  Eastern  Church, 
is  called  by  his  name — the  Wisdom  of  Jesus,  the  Son  of 
Sirach , or  simply  the  1 1 'isdoni  of  Sirach , but  in  the 
Western  churches,  after  the  Vulgate,  the  Book  ofEccle- 
siasticus.  The  same  passage  speaks  of  him  as  a native 
of  Jerusalem,  and  the  internal  character  of  the  book  con- 
firms its  Palestinian  origin.  The  name  Jesus  was  of 
frequent  occurrence  (see  above),  and  was  often  repre- 
sented by  the  Greek  Jason  (see  Josephus,  A nt.  xii,  5, 1). 
In  the  apocryphal  list  of  the  seventy-two  commissioners 
sentbyEleazar  to  Ptolemy  it  occurs  twice  (Aristophanes, 
Ilist.  ap.  Ilodv,  L)e  Text.  p.  vii),  but  there  is  not  the  slight- 
est ground  for  connecting  the  author  of  Ecelesiasticus 
with  either  of  the  persons  there  mentioned.  The  vari- 
ous conjectures  which  have  been  made  as  to  the  posi- 
tion of  the  son  of  Sirach  from  the  contents  of  his  book — 
as,  for  instance,  that  he  was  a priest  (from  vii,  29  sq. ; 
xlv;  xlix,  1),  or  a physician  (from  xxxviii,  1 sq.) — are 
equally  unfounded.  The  evidences  of  a date  B.C.  cir. 
310-270,  are  as  follows : 1.  In  ch.  xliv,  1-1,21,  the  praises 
of  the  ancient  worthies  are  extolled  down  to  the  time 
of  Simon,  who  is  doubtless  Simon  I,  or  “ the  Just”  (B.C. 
370-300).  2.  The  Talmud  most  distinctly  describes  the 
work  of  Ben-Sira  as  the  oldest  of  the  apocryphal  books 
(comp.  Tosefoth  Idaim,  ch.  ii).  3.  It  had  a general  cur- 
rency, and  was  quoted  at  least  as  early  as  the  2d  centu- 
ry B.C.  (comp.  A both,  i,  5 ; Jerusalem  Xazier,  v,  3),  which 
shows  that  it  must  have  existed  a considerable  period  to 
have  obtained  such  circulation  and  respect;  and, 4.  In  the 
description  of  these  great  men,  and  throughout  the  whole 
of  the  book,  there  is  not  the  slightest  trace  of  those  Ila- 
gadic  legends  about  the  national  worthies  which  were 
so  rife  and  numerous  in  the  second  century  before  Christ. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  mention  of  the  “38tli  year  of 
king  Euergetes”  (translator’s  prologue)  argues  a later 
date.  Sec  Eccj.esi  acticus. 

Among  the  later  Jews  the  “ Son  of  Sirach”  was  cele- 
brated under  the  name  of  Ben-Sira  as  a writer  of  prov- 
erbs, and  some  of  those  which  have  been  preserved  offer 
a close  resemblance  to  passages  in  Ecelesiasticus;  but 
in  the  course  of  time  a later  compilation  was  substituted 
for  the  original  work  of  Ben-Sira  (Zunz). 

According  to  the  first  prologue  to  the  book  of  Eccle- 
siasticus,  taken  from  the  Synopsis  of  the  Pseudo-Atha- 
nasius (iv,  377,  ed.  Migne),  the  translator  of  the  book 
bore  the  same  name  as  the  author  of  it..  If  this  conjec- 
ture were  true,  a genealogy  of  the  following  form  would 
result : 1.  Sirach.  2.  Jesus,  son  (father)  of  Sirach  ( au- 
thor of  the  book).  3.  Sirach.  4.  Jesus,  son  of  Sirach 
(translator  of  the  book).  It  is,  however,  most  likely 
that  the  last  chapter,  “ The  prayer  of  Jesus,  the  Son  of 
Sirach ,”  gave  occasion  to  this  conjecture.  The  prayer 
was  attributed  to  the  translator,  and  then  the  table  of 
succession  followed  necessarily  from  the  title  attached 
to  it. 

As  to  the  history  and  personal  character  of  Ben-Sira,  I 
this  must  be  gathered  from  his  book,  as  it  is  the  only  ! 
source  of  information  which  we  possess  upon  the  sub-  [ 
ject.  Like  all  his  co-religionists,  he  was  trained  from  | 


his  early  life  to  fear  and  love  the  God  of  his  fathers, 
lie  travelled  much  both  by  land  and  sea  when  he  grew 
up,  and  was  in  frequent  perils  (Ecclus.  xxxiv,  11, 12)c 
Being  a diligent  student,  and  having  acquired  much 
practical  knowledge  from  his  extensive  travels,  he  was 
intrusted  with  some  office  at  court,  and  his  enemies,  who 
were  jealous  of  him,  maligned  him  before  the  king, 
which  nearly  cost  him  his  life  (li,  G,  7).  To  us,  howev- 
er, his  religious  life  and  sentiments  are  of  the  utmost  im- 
portance, inasmuch  as  they  describe  the  opinions  of  the 
Jews  during  the  period  elapsing  between  the  O.  and  N. 
Test.  Though  deeply  penetrated  with  the  fear  of  God, 
which  he  declared  was  the  only  glory  of  man,  rich,  no- 
ble, or  poor  (x,  22-24),  still  the  whole  of  Ben-Si ra’s  te- 
nets may  be  described  as  limited,  and  are  as  follows : 
Resignation  to  the  dealings  of  Providence  (xi,  21-25) ; 
to  seek  truth  at  the  cost  of  life  (iv,  28) ; not  to  use  much 
babbling  in  prayer  (vii,  14) ; absolute  obedience  to  par- 
ents, which  in  the  sight  of  God  atones  for  sins  (iii,  1—16 ; 
vii,  27, 28) ; humility  (iii,  17-19 ; x,  7-18,  28) ; kindness 
to  domestics  (iv,  30;  vii,  20, 21;  xxxiii,  30, 31) ; to  re- 
lieve the  poor  (iv,  1-9) ; to  act  as  a father  to  the  father- 
less, and  a husband  to  the  widow  (iv,  10);  to  visit  the 
sick  (vii,  35);  to  weep  with  them  that  weep  (vii,  34) ; 
not  to  rejoice,  over  the  death  of  even  the  greatest  ene- 
my (vii,  7),  and  to  forgive  sins  as  we  would  be  forgiven 
(xxviii,  2, 3).  lie  has  nothing  in  the  whole  of  his  book 
about  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  a future  judgment, 
the  existence  of  spirits,  or  the  expectation  of  a Messiah. 
— Smith  ; Kitto.  See  Sikacii. 

5.  See  Babauuas. 

6.  (Col.  iv,  11).  See  Justus. 

JESUS  is  also  the  name  of  several  persons  mention- 
ed by  Josephus,  especially  in  the  pontifical  ranks.  See 
HlGIl-PltlEST. 

1.  A liigh-priest  displaced  bv  Antiochus  Epiplianes 
to  make  room  for  Onias  (Ant.  xii,  5, 1 ; xv,  3, 1). 

2.  The  son  of  Phabet,  deprived  by  Herod  of  the  high- 
priesthood  in  order  to  make  way  for  his  own  father-in- 
law  Simon  (.4  nt.  xv,  9,  4). 

3.  Son  of  Sie,  successor  of  Eleazar  (A  nt.  xvii,  13,  1). 

4.  The  son  of  Dammvtis,  made  high-priest  by  Agrip- 
pa  in  place  of  A nan  us  (Ant.  xx,  9, 1). 

5.  The  son  of  Gamaliel,  and  successor  of  the  preceding 
in  the  high-priesthood  (.1  nt.  xx,  9, 4 ; compare  IFar,  iv, 
4,3). 

6.  Son  of  Ananas,  a plebeian,  and  the  utterer  of  the 
remarkable  doom  against  Jerusalem,  which  was  fulfilled 
during  the  last  siege  simultaneously  with  his  own  death 
(IFflr,  vi,  5, 3). 

7.  A priest,  son  of  Thcbutluis,  who  surrendered  to  Ti- 
tus the  sacred  utensils  of  the  Temple  ( War,  vi,8, 3). 

8.  Son  of  Sepphias,  one  of  the  chief  priests  and  gov- 
ernor of  Tiberias  ( ll'«?yii,  20, 4). 

9.  Son  of  Sapliat,  a ringleader  of  the  Sicarii  during 
the  last  war  with  the  Romans  ( War,  iii,  9, 7). 

Jesus  Christ  (Ujirovg  XpioTi’g,  T?;rrouc  6 Xpur- 
rog ; sometimes  by  Paul  in  the  reverse  order  “ Christ 
Jesus  ’),  the  ordinary  designation  of  the  incarnate  Son 
of  God  and  Saviour  of  mankind.  This  double  designa- 
tion is  not,  like  Simon  Peter,  John  Mark,  Joses  Barna- 
bas, composed  of  a name  and  a surname,  but,  like  John 
the  Baptist,  Simon  Magus,  Bar-Jesus  Elvmas,  of  a prop- 
er name,  and  an  official  title.  Jesus  was  our  Lord’s 
proper  name,  just  as  Peter,  James,  and  John  were  the 
proper  names  of  three  of  his  disciples.  To  distinguish 
our  Lord  from  others  bearing  the  name,  he  was  termed 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  (John  xviii,  7,  etc.,  strictly  Jesus  the 
X(izarene,’h]irovg  6 Xa^iopalog),  and  Jesus  the  son  of 
Joseph  (John  vi,  42,  etc.). 

I.  Import  of  the  name. — There  can  be  no  doubt  that 
Jesus  is  the  Greek  form  of  a Hebrew  name,  which  had 
been  borne,  by  two  illustrious  individuals  in  former  pe- 
riods of  the  Jewish  history — the  successor  of  Moses  and 
introducer  of  Israel  into  the  promised  land  (Exod.  xxiv, 
13),  and  the  high-priest  who,  along  with  Zerubbabcl 
(Zech.  iii,  1),  took  so  active  a part  in  the  re-establish- 


JESUS  CHRIST  8^ 

ment  of  the  civil  and  religious  polity  of  the  Jews  on 
their  return  from  the  Babylonish  captivity.  Its  orig- 
inal and  full  form  is  Jehoshua  (Numb,  xiii,  16).  By 
contraction  it  became  Joshua , or  Jeshna ; and  when 
transferred  into  Greek,  by  taking  the  termination  char- 
acteristic of  that  language,  it  assumed  the  form  Jesus. 
It  is  thus  that  the  names  of  the  illustrious  individuals 
referred  to  are  uniformly  written  in  the  Sept.,  and  the 
first  of  them  is  twice  mentioned  in  the  N ew  Testament 
by  this  name  (Acts  vii,  45 ; lleb.  iv,  8). 

The  original  name  of  Joshua  was  Iloshea  (i  jiS""!, 
saving),  as  appears  in  Numb,  xiii,  8,  16,  which  was 
changed  by  Moses  into  Jehoshua  Jehovah  is  his 

stdration),  as  appears  in  Numb.  xiii.  16 ; 1 Ohron.  vii,  27, 
being  elsewhere  Anglicized  “Joshua.”  After  the  exile 
he  is  called  by  the  "abridged  form  of  this  name,  Jeshua 
(5 -viv't/.),  whence  the  Greek  name  'Itjaovr,  by  which 
this  is  always  represented  in  the  Sept.  This  last  Heb. 
form  differs  little  from  the  abstract  noun  from  the  same 
root,  yeshuah ',  deliverance,  and  seems  to  have 

been  understood  as  equivalent  in  import  (see  Matt.  i,22 ; 
eomp.  Keel  ns.  xlvi,  1). 

The  “name  of  Jesus”  (Phil,  ii,  10)  is  not  the  name  Je- 
sus, but  “ the  name  above  every  name”  (ver.  9) ; i.  e.  the 
supreme  dignity  and  authority  with  which  the  Father 
has  invested  Jesus  Christ  as  the  reward  of  his  disinter- 
ested exertions  in  the  cause  of  the  divine  glory  and  hu- 
man happiness;  and  the  bowing  iv  t<o  ovopart  ’lytrov 
is  obviously  not  an  external  mark  of  homage  when  the 
mme  Jesus  is  pronounced,  but  the  inward  sense  of  awe 
i ml  submission  to  him  who  is  raised  to  a station  so  ex- 
alt hI. 

The  conferring  of  this  name  on  our  Lord  was  not  the 
result  of  accident,  or  of  the  ordinary  course  of  things, 
but  was  the  effect  of  a direct  divine  order  (Luke  i,31  ; 
ii,  21),  as  indicative  of  his  saving  function  (Matt,  i,  21). 
Like  the  other  name  Immanuel  (q.  v.),  it  does  not  neces- 
sarilv  import  the  di  .fine  character  of  the  wearer.  This, 
however,  clearly  results  from  the  attributes  given  in  the 
same  connection,  and  is  plainly  taught  in  numerous  pas- 
sages (see  especially  Horn,  i,  3, 4 ; ix,  5). 

For  the  import  and  application  of  the  name  Christ, 
see  Messiah. 

For  a full  discussion  of  the  name  Jesus,  including 
many  fanciful  etymologies  and  explanations,  with  their 
refutation,  see  Gcsenius,  Thes.  Ileb.  ii,  582 , Simon.  Guam. 
F.  T.  p.  519  sq. ; Fritzsche,  Da  nomine  Jesu  (Freiburg, 
1705);  Clodius,  I)e  nom.  Chr.  et  Mar  ice  Arabicis  (Lips. 
1721) ; llottinger.  Hist.  Orient,  p.  153,157 ; Seelen,  M ed- 
it (it.  exec/.  ii,  413 ; Thiess,  Krit.  Comment,  ii,  395;  A.  Pfeif- 
fer, I)e.  nomine.  Jesu,  in  his  treatise  De  Talmude  Judceo- 
rnm,  p.  177  sq. ; B uimgarten,  Betrucht.  <1.  X aniens  Jesu 
(Halle,  1736);  Chrysander,  I)e  vent  forma  atque  em- 
jthusi  nominis  Jesu.  (Kin tel.  1751) ; Osiander,  Harmonia 
Evungelica  (Basil.  1561  ),lib.i,c.O;  Chemnitius,  De  nom- 
ine Jesu,  in  the  Thes.  Tkeol.  Philol.  (Am.st.  1702),  vol.  ii, 
p.  62 ; ( 'anini,  Disquis.  in  loc.  aliq.  X.  T.,  in  the  Crit.  Sac. 
ix;  Gass,  l)e,  utroque  J.  C.  nomine,  Dei  flit  et  nominis 
(Vratistl.  1810);  and  other  monographs  cited  in  Volbe- 
ding's  Index,  p.  6,  7 ; and  in  llase’s  Leben  Jesu,  p.  51. 

II.  Personal  Circumstances  of  our  Lord.  — (In  this 
branch  of  our  subject  we  largely  translate  from  Winer, 
i,  556  sq.)  1.  General  View. — The  following  is  a naked 
statement  of  the  facts  of  his  career  as  they  may  be  gath- 
ered from  the  evangelical  narratives,  supposing  them  to 
he  entitled  simply  to  the  credit  due  to  profane  historv. 

( For  literature,  see  Volbeding,  p.  56;  lluse,  p.  8.)  The 
founder  of  the  Christian  religion  was  horn  (B.C.  6)  at 
Bethlehem,  near  Jerusalem,  under  the  reign  of  the  em- 
peror Augustus,  of  Mary,  at  the  time  betrothed  to  the 
carpenter  (riie-iov)  Joseph,  and  descended  from  the 
royal  house  of  David  (Matt,  i,  1 sq.;  Luke  iii,  23  sq.; 
comp.  John  vii.  42).  Soon  after  his  birth  he  was  com- 
pelled to  escape  from  the  murderous  designs  of  llerod 
the  Great  by  a hasty  flight  into  the  adjacent  parts  of 
(Matt,  ii,  13  sip;  according  to  tiie  tradition  at 


4 JESUS  CHRIST 

Matarea,  see  Evangel,  infant . A rob.  e.  24 ; apparently  a 
place  near  old  Heliopolis,  where  is  still  shown  a very 
old  mulberry-tree  under  which  Mary  is  said  to  have 
rested  with  the  babe,  see  Prosp.  Alpin,  Iter.  JEg.  i,  5,  p. 
24;  Paidus,  Samml.  iii,  256  sq.;  Tischendorf,  Reisen,  i, 
141  sq.;  comp,  generally  Hartmann,  Erdbeschr.  v.  Afri- 
ca, i,  878  sq.).  See  Egypt  ; Herod.  But  immediate- 
ly after  the  death  of  this  king  his  parents  returned  to 
their  own  eountry,  and  settled  again  (Luke  i,  26)  in 
Nazareth  (q.v.),  in  Lower  Galilee  (Matt,  ii,  23;  eomp. 
Luke  iv,  16;  John  i,  46,  etc.),  where  the  youthful  Jesus 
so  rapidly  matured  (Luke  ii,  40,  52),  that  in  his  twelfth 
year  the  boy  evinced  at  the  metropolis  traits  of  an  un- 
common religious  intelligence,  which  excited  astonish- 
ment in  all  the  spectators  (Luke  ii,  41  sq.).  With  this 
event  the  history  of  his  youth  concludes  in  the  canon- 
ical gospels,  and  we  next  find  him,  about  the  thirtieth 
year  of  his  age  (A.D.  25),  in  the  neighborhood  of  the 
Dead  Sea,  at  the  Jordan,  where  he  suffered  himself  to 
be  consecrated  for  the  introduction  of  the  new  divine 
dispensation  (fictatXnct  rov  0c on)  by  the  symbol  of  wa- 
ter baptism  at  the  hands  of  John  the  Baptist  (Matt,  iii, 
13  sq. ; Mark  i,  9 sip;  Luke  iii,  21  sq.;  John  i,  32  sq.). 
He  now  began,  after  a forty-days’  fast  (comp.  1 Kings 
xix,8)  spent  in  the  wilderness  of  Judaea  (Matt.iv,  1-11; 
Mark  i,  12  sq.;  Luke  iv,  1-13)  in  quiet  meditation  upon 
his  mission,  to  publish  openly  in  person  this  “kingdom 
of  God,”  by  earnestly  summoning  his  countrymen  to  re- 
pentance, i.  e.  a fundamental  reformation  of  their  senti- 
ments and  conduct,  through  a new  birth  from  the  Holy 
Spirit  (John  iii,  3 sq.).  He  repeatedly  announced  him- 
self as  the  mediator  of  this  dispensation,  and  in  pursu- 
ance of  this  character,  in  correction  of  the  sensual  ex- 
pectations of  the  people  with  reference  to  the  long- 
hoped-for  Redeemer  (comp.  Luke  iv,  21),  he  chose  from 
among  his  early  associates  and  Galilaean  countrymen  a 
small  number  of  faithful  disciples  (Matt,  x),  and  with 
them  travelled,  especially  at  the  time  of  the  Paschal 
festival  and  during  the  summer  months,  in  various  di- 
rections through  Palestine,  seizing  every  opportunity 
to  impress  pure  and  fruitful  religious  sentiments  upon 
the  populace  or  his  immediate  disciples,  and  to  enlight- 
en them  concerning  his  own  dignity  as  God’s  legate 
(uibg  tov  0cof>),  who  should  abolish  the  sacrificial  ser- 
vice, and  teach  a worship  of  God,  as  the  common  Father 
of  mankind,  in  spirit  and  in  truth  (John  iv,  24).  With 
these  expositions  of  doctrine,  which  all  breathe  the  no- 
blest practical  spirit,  and  were  so  carefully  adapted  to 
the  capacity  and  apprehension  of  the  hearers  that  in 
respect  to  clearness,  simplicity,  and  dignified  force  they 
are  still  a pattern  of  true  instruction,  he  coupled,  in  the 
spirit  of  the  Old-Testament  prophets,  and  as  his  age 
expected  from  the  Messiah,  wonderful  deeds,  especially 
charitable  cures  of  certain  diseases  at  that  time  very 
prevalent  and  regarded  as  incurable,  but  to  these  he 
himself  appears  to  have  attributed  a subordinate  value. 
By  this  means  he  gathered  about  him  a considerable 
company  of  true  adherents  and  thankful  disciples,  chief- 
ly from  the  middle  class  of  the  people  (John  vii,  49; 
and  even  from  the  despicable  publicans,  Matt,  ix,  9 sq. ; 
Luke  v.  27  sq.) ; for  the  eminent,  and  learned  were  re- 
pelled by  the  severe  reproofs  which  he  uttered  against 
their  corrupt  maxims  (Mark  xii,38  sq.),  their  sanctimo- 
[ nious  (Luke  xii.  1 ; xviii,9  sq.)  and  hypocritical  punctil- 
iousness (Luke  xi,39  sq.;  xviii,  9 sq.),  and  against  their 
prejudices,  as  being  subversive  of  all  true  religion  (John 
viii,  33;  ix,  16),  as  well  as  by  the  slight  regard  which 
(in  comparison  with  their  statutes)  he  paid  to  the  Sab- 
bath (John  v,  16);  and  as  he  in  no  respect  correspond- 
ed to  their  expectations  of  the  Messiah,  full  of  animosi- 
ty, they  made  repeated  attempts  to  seize  his  person 
("Mark  xi,  18;  John  vii,  30,  44).  At  last  they  succeed- 
ed, by  the  assistance  of  the  traitor  Judas,  in  taking  him 
prisoner  in  the  very  capital,  where  he  had  just  partaken 
of  a parting  meal  in  the  familiar  circle  of  his  friends 
(the  l’assover),  upon  which  he  engrafted  the  initiatory 
rite  of  a new  covenant;  and  thus,  without  exciting  any 


JESUS  CHRIST 


875 


JESUS  CHRIST 


surprise  on  his  part,  in  surrendering  him  into  the  hands 
of  the  Roman  authorities  as  a popular  insurrectionist. 
He  was  sentenced  to  death  by  crucifixion,  as  he  had 
often  declared  to  his  disciples  would  be  his  fate,  and  suf- 
fered himself,  with  calm  resignation,  to  be  led  to  the 
place  of  execution  between  two  malefactors  (on  their 
traditional  names,  see  Thilo,  A pocryph.  i,  580  sq. ; comp. 
Evang.  infant.  A rah.  c.  23) ; but  he  arose  alive  on  the 
third  day  from  the  grave  which  a grateful  disciple  had 
prepared  for  him,  and  after  tarrying  forty  days  in  the 
midst  of  his  disciples,  during  which  he  confidently  in- 
trusted the  prosecution  of  the  great  work  into  their 
hands,  and  promised  them  the  divine  help  of  a Paraclete 
(7 rapdicAtjroc'),  he  finally,  according  to  one  of  the  narra- 
tors, soared  away  visibly  into  the  sky  (A.D.  29).  (See 
Volbeding,  p.  G.) 

2.  Sources  of  Information.  — The  only  trustworthy 
accounts  respecting  Jesus  are  to  be  derived  from  the 
evangelists.  (See  Volbeding,  p.  5.)  See  Gospels,  Spi>  1 
Riot's.  They  exhibit,  it  is  true,  many  chasms  (Caussc, 
lie  rationibus  ob  quas  nonplura  quam  quie  extant  ad  J. 
C.  vitam  pertinentia  ab  Evang.  Uteris  sint  consignata, 
Franckf.  17G6),  but  they  wear  the  aspect  of  a true,  plain, 
lively  narrative.  Only  two  of  these  derive  their  mate- 
rials from  older  traditions,  doubtless  from  the  apostles 
and  companions  of  Jesus;  but  they  were  all  first  written 
down  a long  time  after  the  occurrences : hence  it  has 
often  been  asserted  that  the  historical  matter  was  even 
at  that  time  no  longer  extant  in  an  entirely  pure  state  i 
(since  the  objective  and  the  subjective,  both  in  views  j 
and  opinions,  arc  readily  interchanged  in  an  unscien- 
tifically formed  style);  but  that  after  Jesus  had  been  so 
gloriously  proved  to  be  the  Messias,  the  incidents  were 
improved  into  prodigies,  especially  through  a considera- 
tion of  the  Old-Testament  prophecies  (Kaiser,  Bill. 
Thcol.  i,  199  sq.).  Yet  in  the  synoptical  gospels  this 
could  only  be  shown  in  the  composition  and  connection 
of  single  transactions;  the  facts  themselves  in  the  re- 
spective accounts  agree  too  well  in  time  and  circum- 
stances, and  the  narrators  confine  themselves  too  evi- 
dently to  the  position  of  writers  of  memoirs,  to  allow  the  j 
supposition  of  a (conscious)  transformation  of  the  events 
or  any  such  developments  from  Old-Testament  prophe- 
cy: moreover,  if  truth  and  pious  poetry  had  already 
become  mingled  in  the  verbal  traditionary  reports,  the 
eye-witnesses  Matthew  and  John  would  have  known  l 
well,  in  a fresh  narration,  how  to  distinguish  between 
each  of  these  elements  with  regard  to  scenes  which  they  ( 
had  themselves  passed  through  (for  memory  and  imag- 
ination were  generally  more  lively  and  vigorous  among 
the  ancients  than  with  11s)  (Ur.  iib.  Rationalismus,  p.  248 
sq. ; compare  Ileydenrcich,  Utb.  Unzuliissigkeit  d.  myth. 
A ujfassnng  des  llistor.  im  X.  T.  und  im  Christenth.  Her- 
born,  1831-5;  see  Hose,  p.  9).  Sooner  would  we  sup- 
pose that  the  fertile-minded  John,  who  wrote  latest,  has 
set  before  us,  not  the  pure  historical  Christ,  but  one  . 
apprehended  bv  faith  and  confounded  with  his  own  ; 
spiritual  conceptions  (Br.  iiber  Rational,  p.  352).  But  I 
while  it  is  altogether  probable  that  even  he,  by  reason  | 
of  his  individuality  and  spiritual  sympathy  with  Jesus, 
apprehended  and  reflected  the  depth  and  spirituality  of 
his  Master  more  truly  than  the  synoptical  evangelists,  1 
who  depict  rather  the  exterior  phenomena  of  his  char- 
acter, at  the  same  time  there  is  actually  nothing  con- 
tained in  the  doctrinal  discourses  of  Jesus  in  John,  either 
in  substance  or  form,  that  is  incompatible  with  the 
Christ  of  the  first  three  evangelists  (see  lleydenreich,  in 
his  Zeitschr.jnr  Predigermiss.  i,  pt.  1 and  2) ; yet  these 
latter  represent  Jesus  as  speaking  comparatively  seldom, 
and  that  in  more  general  terms,  of  his  exaltation,  dig- 
nity, and  relation  with  the  Father,  whereas  that  Christ 
would  have  explained  himself  much  more  definitely 
and  fully  upoji  a point  that  could  not  have  remained 
undisenssed,  is  of  itself  probable  (see  Hase,  p.  10).  Hence 
also,  although  we  cannot  believe  that  in  such  represen- 
tations we  are  to  understand  the  identical  words  of 
Christ  to  be  given  (for  while  the  retention  of  all  these  ] 


extended  discourses  in  the  memory  is  improbable,  on 
the  other  hand  a writing  of  them  down  is  repugnant  to 
the  Jewish  custom),  yet  the  actual  sentiments  of  Jesus 
are  certainly  thus  reported.  (See  further,  Bauer,  Bibl. 
Theol.  X.  T.  ii,  278  sq. ; B.  Crusius,  Bibl.  Theol.  p.  81 ; 
Fleck,  Otium  theolog.  Lips.  1831;  and  generally  Krum- 
macher,  Ueber  den  deist  und  die  Form  der  evang.  Gesch. 
Lpz.  1805;  Fichhorn,  Einleit.  i,  089  sq.;  on  the  mytlii- 
cism  of  the  evangelists,  see  Gabler,  Xeuest.  theol.  Journ. 
vii,  39G ; Bertholdt,  Theol.  Jourti.  v,  235  sq.) 

In  the  Church  fathers,  we  find  very  little  that  appears 
to  have  been  derived  from  clearly  historical  tradition, 
but  the  apocryphal  gospels  breathe  a spirit  entirely  for- 
eign to  historical  truth,  and  are  filled  with  accounts  of 
petty  miracles  (Tholuck,  G limb iv ii rdigkc it , p.  40G  sq. ; 
Ammon,  Leb.  Jesu,  i,  90  sq. ; compare  Schmidt,  End.  ins 
X.  T.  ii,  234  sq.,  and  Biblioth.f.  Krit.  u.  Exegese , ii,  481 
sq.).  The  passage  of  Josephus  (A nt.  xviii,  3,  3 ; see 
Gieseler,  Eccles.  Ilist.  § 24),  which  Eusebius  (llist.Eccl. 
i,  11 ; Bemonstr.  Ev.  iii,  7)  was  the  first  among  Christian 
writers  to  make  use  of,  has  been  shown  (sec  Hase,  p.  12), 
although  some  have  ingeniously  striven  to  defend  it 
(sec,  among  the  latest,  Bretschneider,  in  his  Biss,  capita 
theolog.  Jud.  dogmat.  e Josepho  collect.  Lips.  1812 ; Bbh- 
mert,  Ueber  lies  Jos.  Zengniss  von  Christo,  Leipz.  1823  ; 
Scluidel,  El.  Joseph,  de  J.  Chr.  testatus,  Lips.  1840),  to  be 
partly,  but  not  entirely  spurious  (see  Eichstiidt,  Flaviani 
de  Jesu  Christo  testimonii  avStvria  quo  jure  jiuper  rursus 
def  -nsa  sit,  Jena,  1813 ; also  his  G Progr.  m.  einem  auctar. 
1841 ; Paulus,  in  the  Ileielelberg  Jahrb.  1813,  i,  2G9  sq. ; 
Thcilc,  in  the  X.  kritisch.  Journ.  d.  theolog.  Lit.  ii,  97  sq. ; 
1 kinichen,  Exc.  1 zu  Euseb.  II.  E.  iii,  331  sq. ; also  Suppl. 
notaiius  ad  Eusebium , p.  73  sq. ; Ammon,  Leben  Jesu,  i, 
120  sq.).  8ce  Josephus.  (See  Volbeding,  p.  5.)  The 
Koran  (q.  v.)  contains  only  palpable  fables  concerning 
Jesus  (llottingir,  llistor.  Or.  105  sq. ; Schmidt,  in  his 
Bibl.f.  Krit.  n.  Exegese,  i,  110  sq. ; D'Herbelot,  Biblioth. 
Orientate,  ii.  349  sq. ; compare  Augusti,  Christologiee  Ko- 
ran lineam.  Jena,  1799),  and  the  Jewish  History  of  Jesus 
r‘”5'n,  edit.  Iluldriei,  Lugd.  Bat.  1703;  and  in 
Wagenseil,  Tela  ign.  Satan.  Alt  dor  f,  1G81)  betrays  itself 
as  an  abortive  fabrication  of  Jewish  calumny,  destitute 
of  any  historical  value  (see  Ammon,  Bibl.  Theol.  ii,2G3), 
while  the  allusions  to  Jesus  in  the  Talmud  and  the  Rab- 
bins have  only  a polemical  aim  (see  Mcclfiihrer,  Jesus  in 
Talmude.  Altdorf,  1G99,  ii,  4 ; Werner,  Jisus  in  Tuhnude , 
Stadie,  1731;  comp.  By  metis,  Be  natali  J.  C.  ii,  4).  (See 
Volbeding,  p.  5.)  The  genuine  Acts  of  Pilate  (“Acta 
Pilati,"  Eusebius,  Citron.  A rm.  ii,  2G7 ; compare  Henke, 
Opusc.  p.  199  sq.)  are  no  longer  extant  [see  Pilate]; 
what  we  now  possess  under  this  title  is  a later  fabrica- 
tion (see  Ammon,  i,  102  sq.).  In  the  Greek  and  Roman 
profane  authors,  Jesus  is  only  incidentally  named  (Taei- 
tus,  Annul,  xv, 44, 3;  Pliny,  Epist.  x, 97 ; Lamprid.  Yit. 
A lex.  Ser.  c.  29,  43 ; Porphyry,  Be  philosoph.  ex.  orac.  in 
Euseb.  Bemonstr.  Evang.  iii,  7 ; Lilian,  in  Socr.  Ilist.  Ev. 
iii,  23  ; Lucian,  Mors  peregr.  c.  11, 13).  On  Suidas,  s.  v. 
’hjaovc,  see  Walter,  Codex  in  Suida  menilax  de  Jesu 
(Lips.  1724).  Whether  by  Chrestus  in  Suetonius  (Claud. 
p.  25)  is  to  be  understood  Christ,  is  doubted  by  some 
(comp.  Ernesti  and  Wolf,  ad  loc. ; see  Claudius),  but 
the  unusual  name  Christus  might  easily  undergo  this 
change  (see  also  Philostr.  Soph,  ii,  11)  in  popular  refer- 
ence (see  generally  Eckliard.  Xon-Christtanor.  de  Christo 
testimonia,  Quedlinb.  1737 ; Kcccher , Hist.  Jesu  Christo  ex 
scriptorib.  profan.  eruta,  Jena,  172G;  Meyer,  Yersuch  e. 
Yertheid.  u.  Erlaut.  der  Geschichte  Jesu  u.  d.  A postol.  a. 
griech.  u.  rum.  Prof unserib.  Hannov.  1805;  Fronmullcr, 
in  the  Studien  der  viirtemb.  Geistf.  x,  1.  On  the  Jesus 
of  the  book  of  Sirach,  xliii,  25,  see  Seelcn,Zte  Jesu  in  Jesu 
Sirac.frvstra  queesito,  Lubec.  1724  ; also  in  his  Medit. 
exeg.  i,  207  sq.). 

3.  The  scientific  treatment  of  the  life  of  Jesus  belongs 
to  the  modern  period  of  theological  criticism.  Among 
earlier  contributions  of  a critico-chronological  character 
is  that  of  Offerliaus  (Be  vita  J.  C.privata  et publico,  in 
his  Spicil.  histor.  chronol.  Groningen,  1739).  Greiling 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST  876 


(Halle,  1813)  first  undertook  the  adjustment,  in  a lively 
narrative,  of  the  recent  (rationalistic)  exposition  that 
has  resulted,  to  the  actual  career  of  Christ.  An  indepen- 
dent but,  on  the  whole,  unsatisfactory  treatise  is  that  of 
Planck  (Geseh.  d.  Christentk.  in  tier  Periode  seiner  ersten 
Kinfuhr.  in  die  Welt  durchJesum  u.  die  Apostel,  Gottin- 
gen, IS  IK).  Kaiser  has  attempted  an  analysis  (Bibl. 
Thiol,  i,  230  sq.).  Still  more  severe  in  his  method  of 
criticism  is  Paulus  (Dus  Leben  Jesu  als  Grundlnye  einer 
reinen  Geseh.  d.  Urchristenth.  Ileidclb.  1828),  and  bold  to 
a degree  that  has  alarmed  the  theological  world  is  D.  K 
Strauss  (Leben  J.  krit.  bearbeit.  Tithing.  1835,  and  since). 
The  latter  anew  reduced  the  evangelical  histories  (with 
the  exception  of  a few  plain  transactions)  to  a mythical 
composition  springing  out  of  the  Old-Test,  prophecies 
and  the  expectations  of  the  Messiah  in  the  community, 
and,  in  his  criticism  upon  single  points,  generally  stands 
upon  the  shoulders  of  the  preceding  writers.  In  oppo- 
sition to  him,  numerous  men  of  learning  and  courage 
rose  up  to  defend  the  “historical  Christ,”  some  of  them 
insisting  upon  the  strictly  supernatural  interpretation 
(Lange ; Harless ; Tholuek,  Glaubwnrdiykcit  der  evangel. 
Geseh.  Hamb.  1838 ; lvrabbe,  Tories,  iiber  das  Leben  Jesu , 
llamb.  1830),  while  others  concede  or  pass  over  single 
points  in  the  history  (Neander,  Leben  J.  Chr.  Hamburg, 
1837).  Into  this  controversy,  which  grew  highly  per- 
sonal, a philosophical  writer  (Weisse,  Evany.  Geschichte 
Krit.  it. philosoph.  Bearbeituny,  Leipz.  1840)  beeame  in- 
volved, and  attempted,  by  an  ingenious  but  decidedly 
presumptuous  criticism,  to  distinguish  the  historical  and 
the  nnliistorical  element  in  the  evangelical  account.  At 
the  same  time,  Theile  ( Zur  Bioyraphie  Jesu.  Leipzig, 
1837)  gave  a careful  and  conciliatory  summary  of  the 
materials  of  the  discussion,  but  llase  has  published  (in 
the  4 th  ed.  of  his  Leben  Jesu,  Leipz.  1840)  a masterly  re- 
view, showing  the  gradual  rejection  of  the  extravagances 
of  criticism  since  1829.  The  substance  of  the  life  of 
Jesus  has  thus  now  become  established  in  general  belief 
as  historical  truth;  yet  Bauer  (Krit.  der  evanyel.  Geseh. 
d.  Synoptiker , Leipz.  1841),  after  an  analysis  of  the  gos- 
pels as  literary  productions,  calls  the  original  narrative 
concerning  Jesus  “a  pure  creation  of  the  Christian  con- 
sciousness,” and  he  pronounces  the  evangelical  history 
generally  to  be  “solved.”  Thenius  has  met  him  with  a 
proof  of  the  evangelical  history,  drawn  from  the  N.-Test. 
epistles,  in  a few  but  striking  remarks  (Das  Evany,  ohne 
die  Evanyelien,  Leipz.  1843),  but.  A.  Ebrard  ( 1 1 dss.  Krit. 
d.  eunny.  Geseh.  Frankf.  1842)  has  fully  refuted  him  in  a 
learned  but  not  unprejudiced  work  (see  also  Weisse,  in 
the  Jen.  Lit.-Z.eit.  18 13,  No. 7-9,  13-15).  But  this  heart- 
less and  also  peculiarly  insipid  criticism  of  Bauer — 
which,  indeed,  often  degenerates  into  the  ridiculous— 
appears  to  have  left  no  impression  upon  the  literary 
world,  and  may  therefore  be  dismissed  without  further 
consideration  (comp,  generally  Grimm,  GlaubicimUykeit 
d.  evanyel.  Geseh.  in  Bczuy  anf  Strauss  und  Bauer,  Jena, 
1815).  Lately,  Von  Ammon  (Geseh.  d.  Leb.  Jesu,  Leipz. 
1812)  undertook,  in  his  style  of  combination,  carefully 
steering  between  the  extremes,  a narrative  of  the  life  of 
Jesus  full  of  striking  observations.  Whatever  else  has 
been  done  in  this  department  (Gfrbrer,  Geschichte  des 
Crchristenth.  Stuttg.  1838;  Salvador,  Jesus  Christ  et  sa 
doctrine , Bar.  1838)  belongs  rather  to  the  origin  of  Chris- 
tianity than  to  the  data  of  the  life  of  Jesus.  In  Catho- 
lic literature  little  has  appeared  on  this  subject  (Kuhn, 
Leben  Jesu  tcissensch.  beurbeitet,  Mainz,  1838;  of  a more 
general  character  are  the  works  of  Francke,  Leipz.  1838, 
and  Storeh,  Leipz.  1841).  (On  the  bearing  of  subjective  j 
views  upon  the  treatment  of  the  Gospel  history,  there 
are  the  monographs  cited  in  Yolbeding,  p.  t>.)  See  lit- 
erature below,  and  compare  the  art.  Cm  histology. 

4.  Chronoloyical  Data.— a.  The  year  of  Christ’s  birth 
(for  the  general  condition  of  the  age,  see  Knapp,  De  statu  * 
temp,  mito  Christo , 1 Ial.  1757 ; and  the  Church  histories  of  I 
(iieseler,  Neander,  etc.;  on  a special  point,  see  Masson,  1 
Jam  tempi.  Christo  nascente  reseratum,  Rotterdam,  1700) 
cannot,  as  aU  investigations  on  this  point  have  proved 


! (Fabricii  Bibl.  antiquar.  p.  187  sq.,  342  sq. ; Thiess,  Krit. 
Comment,  ii,  339  sq.;  comp,  especially  S.  van  Tilde,  De 
anno,  metise  et  die  nati  Chr.  Lugd.  Bat.  1700,  prsef.  J.  G. 
Walch,  Jena,  1740;  K.  Michaeles,  Ueber  das  Geburts-  u. 
Sterbejahr  J.  C.  Wien,  1790,  ii,  8),  be  determined  with 
full  certainty  (Reccard,  Pr.  in  rationes  et  limites  incerti- 
tudinis  circa  temp.  nat.  Christi,  Reg.  1768) ; yet  it  is  now 
pretty  generally  agreed  that  the  vulgar  sera  (Hamber- 
ger,  De  epoehce  Dionys.  ortu  et  auctore,  Jen.  1704;  also 
in  Martini  Thes.  Diss.  Ill,  i,  341  sq.),  of  which  the  first 
year  corresponds  to  4714  of  the  Julian  Period,  or  754 
(and  latter  part  of  753 ; see  Jarvis,  Introd.  to  hist,  of  the 
, Church , p.  54,  610)  of  Rome  (Sanelemente,  De  vuly.  cerce 
i emendat.  Rom.  1793;  ldeler,  Chronol.  ii,  383  sq.),  has  as- 
J signed  it  a date  too  late  by  a few  years  (see  Strong’s 
Harm,  ami  Expos.  Append,  i),  since  the  death  of  Herod 
j the  Great  (Matt,  ii,  1 sq.),  according  to  Josephus  (.4a/. 
xvii,  8,  1 ; comp,  xiv,  14,  5;  xvii,  9,  3),  must  have  oc- 
curred before  Easter  in  B.C.4  (see  Browne’s  Or  do  S<e- 
cloruw,  p.  27  sq.).  Hence  Jesus  may  have  been  born  in 
the  beginning  of  the  year  of  Rome  750,  four  years  before 
the  epoch  of  our  a*ra,  or  even  earlier  (Uhland,  Christum 
anno  ante  ter.  vuly.  4 exeunte  nutum  esse , Tubing.  1775; 
so  Bengel,  Anger,  Wieseler,  Jarvis),  but  in  no  ease  later 
(comp,  also  Otferhaus,  Spiciley.  p.  422  sq. ; Paulus,  Com- 
ment. i,  206  sq. ; Vogel,  in  Gabler’s  Journ.f.  auserl.  the - 
oloy.  Lit.  i,  244  sq. ; and  in  the  Studien  der  vurternbery. 
Geistlichk.  1,  i,  50  sq.).  A few  passages  (as  Luke  iii,  1, 
23;  Matt,  ii,  2 sq.)  afford  a closer  determination  [see 
Cykenius]  ; the  latter  gave  occasion  to  the  celebrated 
Kepler  to  connect  the  star  of  the  Magi  with  a planetary 
conjunction  (of  Jupiter  and  Saturn),  and  more  recent 
writers  have  followed  this  suggestion  (Wurm,  in  Ben- 
gel’s  A rchiv.  II,  i,  261  sq.;  ldeler,  IJatidb.  d.  Chronol.  ii, 
399  sq.,  and  Lehrb.  d.  Chronol.  p.  428  sq.;  compare  also 
Munter,  Stern  der  Weisen,  Copenli.  1827;  Klein’s  Oppo- 
sitionsschr.Y,  i,  90  sq. ; Schubert,  Lehrb.  d.  Sternhmde, 
p.  226  sq.),  fixing  upon  I3.C.  6 as  the  true  year  of  the 
nativity.  See  Nativity.  But  Matt,  ii,  16  seems  to 
state  that  the  Magi,  who  must  have  arrived  at  Jerusa- 
lem soon  after  the  birth  of  Jesus,  had  indicated  the  first 
appearance  of  the  phenomenon  as  having  occurred  a 
lony  time  previously  (probably  not  exactly  two  years 
before),  and  on  that  view  Jesus  might  have  been  born 
earlier  than  B.C.  6,  the  more  so  inasmuch  as  the  acces- 
sion of  Mars  to  the  same  conjunction,  occurring  in  the 
spring  of  B.C.  6,  according  to  Kepler,  may  have  first 
excited  the  full  attention  of  the  Magi.  Lately  Wiese- 
ler (Chronoloy.  Synapse,  p.  67  sq.)  has  brought  down  the 
nativity  to  the  year  B.C.4,  and  in  additional  confirma- 
tion of  this  date  holds  that  a comet,  which,  according  to 
Chinese  astronomical  tables,  was  visible  for  more  than 
two  months  in  this  year,  was  identical  with  the  star  of 
the  wise  men,  at  the  same  time  adducing  Luke  ii,  I sq. ; 
iii,  23,  as  pointing  to  the  same  year.  But  if  the  Magi 
had  first  been  incited  to  their  journey  by  the  appearance 
of  that  comet,  the}-  could  not  well  have  designated  to 
llerod  as  the  Messianic  star  the  planetary  conjunction  of 

A. U.C.  747  or  748,  then  almost  two  years  ago,  seeing  this 
was  an  entirely  distinct  phenomenon.  Under  this  sup- 
position, too,  Herod  would  have  made  more  sure  of  his 
purpose  if  he  had  put  to  death  children  three  years  old. 
According  to  this  view,  then,  we  should  place  Christ’s 
birth  rather  in  B.C.  7 than  B.C.  4.  Some  uncertainty, 
however,  must  always  attend  the  use  of  these  astronom- 
ical data.  See  Stah  in  the  East.  As  an  element  in 
determining  the  year  of  the  nativity,  Luke  iii,  1,  comp. 
23,  must  also  be  taken  into  the  account.  Jesus  is  there 
positively  stated  to  have  entered  upon  his  public  min- 
istry at  thirty  years  of  age,  and  indeed  soon  after  John 
the  Baptist,  whose  mission  began  in  the  fifteenth  year 
of  the  reign  of  Tiberius,  so  that,  by  reckoning  back 
about  thirty  years  from  this  latter  date  (August,  781,  to 
August,  782,  of  Rome,  A. IX  28-29),  we  arrive  at  about 

B. C.  3 as  the  year  of  Christ’s  birth,  which  corresponds 
to  the  statements  of  Irenteus  (l Beret,  iii,  25),  Tertullian 
(.lcfr.  Jud.  8),  and  Eusebius  (Hist,  Ec.  i,  5),  that  Jesus 


JESUS  CHRIST 


877 


JESUS  CHRIST 


was  bom  in  the  year  41  (42)  of  the  reign  of  Augustus, 
i.  e.  751  of  Rome,  or  11.C.  3 (Ideler,  Chrono/og.  ii,  335). 
As  Luke’s  language  in  that  passage  is  somewhat  indefi- 
nite (“  about,”  with),  we  may  presume  that  Christ  was 
rather  over  than  under  thirty  years  of  age;  and  this 
will  agree  with  the  computation  of  the  fourth  year  be- 
fore the  Dionysian  <*era,  i.  e.  750  of  Rome.  If,  however, 
we  suppose  (but  see  Browne,  Ordo  Scedorum,  p.  67)  the 
joint  reign  of  Tiberius  with  Augustus,  i.  e.  his  associa- 
tion with  him  in  the  government  especially  of  the  prov- 
inces (Veil.  Paterc.  Hist.  Rom.  ii,  121 ; Sueton.  iii,  20,  21 ; 
Tacitus,  Annctl.  i,  3 ; Dio  Cass.  Hist.  Rom.  ii,  103),  three 
and  a half  years  before  his  full  reign  (Jarvis,  Introd.  p. 
228-230),  to  be  meant,  we  shall  again  be  brought  to 
about  B.C.  6,  or  possibly  7,  as  the  year  of  the  nativity. 
The  latest  conclusion  of  Block  (Das  irahre  Geburtsjahr 
Christi , Berl.  1843),  that  Jesus  was  born  in  the  year  735 
of  Rome,  or  nineteen  years  before  the  beginning  of  the 
vulgar  rera,  based  upon  the  authority  of  the  later  Rab- 
bins, does  not  call  for  special  examination  (yet  see  AViese- 
ler,  Cki'onol.  Synapse,  p.  132).  See  Advent. 

The  month  and  day  of  the  birth  of  Christ  cannot  be 
determined  with  a like  degree  of  approximation,  but  it 
could  not,  at  all  events,  have  fallen  in  December  or  Jan- 
uarv,  since  at  this  time  of  the  year  the  Hocks  are  not 
found  in  the  open  fields  during  the  night  (Luke  ii, 8),  but 
in  pens  (“the  first  rain  descends  the  17th  of  the  month 
Marchesvan  [November],  and  then  the  cattle  returned 
home;  nor  did  the  shepherds  any  longer  lodge  in  huts 
in  the  fields,”  Gemara,  Xedttr.  63);  moreover,  a census 
(uTTuyaaty)}),  which  made  travelling  necessary  (Luke  ii, 
2 sq.),  would  not  have  been  ordered  at  this  season.  AVe 
may  naturally  suppose  that  the  month  of  Alarch  is  the 
time  for  driving  out  cattle  to  pasture,  at  least  in  Southern 
Palestine  (Siiskind,  in  Bengel’s  A rchir.  i,  215;  comp.  A. 
J.  u.  d.  llardt,  De  moment  is  quibnsd.  hist,  et  eh  rou.  ad  de- 
tenu in.  Chr.  diem  natal.  Ilelmst.  1754  ; Kiirner,  De  die  na- 
tali  Servutoris,  Lips.  1778;  Fnnek,  De  die  Servat.  natali, 
Rint.  1735  ; also  in  his  Dissert.  Acad.  p.  140  sq. ; Miinter, 
Stern  der  Weisen , Copenli.  1827,  p.  110  sq.).  If  we  can 
rely  upon  a statement  of  the  Jewish  Rabbins,  that  the 
first  of  the  twentv-fonr  courses  of  priests  entered  upon 
their  duties  in  the  regular  cycle  the  very  week  in  which 
the  Temple  was  destroyed  bv  the  Romans  (Alislma,  iii, 
298,3),  we  are  furnished  with  the  means,  by  comparison 
with  the  time  of  the  service  of  Zachariah  (Luke  i,  5,8), 
who  belonged  to  the  eighth  division  (1  Cliron.xxiv,  10), 
of  determining  with  considerable  certainty  (Browne’s 
Or  do  Sreclorum,  p.  33  sq.)  the  dat^  of  the  nativity  as 
occurring,  if  in  B.C.  6,  about  the  month  of  August 
(Strong’s  Harm,  and  Expos.  Append,  i,  p.  23).  The  at- 
tempts of  Scaliger  and  Benge!  to  determine  the  month 
of  the  nativity  from  this  element  (compare  Alaurit.  De 
sortit.  p.  334  sq.)  are  unsatisfactory  (see  A"an  Til,  ut  sup. 
p.  75  sq. ; Allix,  Diatr.  de  anno  et  mense  J.  C.  nat.  p.  44 
sq. ; Panins,  Comment,  i,  36  sq.).  Lately  Jarvis  ( Introd . 
p.  535  sq.)  has  endeavored  to  maintain  the  traditionary 
date  of  Christmas  of  the  Latin  Church;  and  Seyffarth 
has  anew  adopted  the  conclusion  ( Chrono/og . Sacra , 
p.  97  sq.)  that  John  the  Baptist  was  born  on  the  24th 
of  June,  and  consequently  Jesus  on  the  25th  (22d  in  his 
Summary  of  recent  Discoveries  in  Chronology.  N.  A'ork, 
1857,  p.  236)  of  December,  based  on  the  supposition  that 
the  Israelites  reckoned  by  solar  months:  this  pays  no 
regard  to  Luke  ii,  8 (see  llase,  p.  67).  See  Chkiktmas. 

b.  The  year  of  Christ’s  crucifixion  is  no  less  disputed 
(comp.  Paulus,  Comment,  iii,  784  sq.).  The  two  extreme 
limits  of  the  date  are  the  above-mentioned  loth  year  of 
Tiberius,  in  which  John  the  Baptist  began  his  career 
(Luke  iii,  1),  i.  e.  Aug.  781  to  Aug.  782  of  Rome  (A.D. 
28-29),  and  the  year  of  the  death  of  that,  emperor,  790  of 
Rome  (A.D.  37),  in  which  Filate  had  already  left  the 
province  of  Judaea.  Jesus  appears  to  have  begun  his 
public  teaching  soon  after  John’s  entrance  upon  his  mis- 
sion; for  the  message  of  the  Sanhedrim  to  John,  which 
is  placed  in  immediate  connection  with  the  beginning 
of  Christ’s  public  ministry  (John  i,  19;  comp,  xxix,  35; 


ii,  1),  and  comes  in  just  before  the  Passover  (John  ii,  12 
sq.),  must  have  been  within  a year  after  John’s  public 
appearance.  This  being  assumed,  a further  approxima- 
tion would  depend  upon  the  determination  of  the  num- 
ber of  Passovers  which  Jesus  celebrated  during  his  min- 
istry; but  this  itself  is  tjuite  a difficult  question  (see  un- 
der No.  5,  below).  It  is  now  generally  conceded  that 
he  could  not  well  have  passed  less  than  three  Paschal 
festivals,  and  probably  not  more  than  four  (i.  e.  one  at 
the  beginning  of  each  of  Christ’s  three  years,  and  a 
fourth  at  the  close  of  the  last);  thus  we  ascertain  as  the 
terminus  a.  quo  of  these  festivals  the  year  A.D.  28,  and 
as  the  probable  terminus  ad  quern  the  year  A.D.  32;  or, 
on  the  supposition  (as  above)  that  the  joint  reign  of  Ti- 
berius is  meant,  we  have  as  the  limits  of  the  Passovers 
of  Jesus  A.D.  25-29.  This  result,  would  be  rendered 
more  definite  and  certain  if  we  could  ascertain  wheth- 
er in  the  last  of  these  series  of  years  (A.D.  29  or  32)  the 
Jewish  Passover  fell  on  a Friday  (Thursday  evening 
and  the  ensuing  day),  as  this  was  the  week-day  on 
which  tire*  death  of  Christ  is  generally  held  to  have 
taken  place.  There  have  been  various  calculations  by 
means  of  lunar  tables  (Linbrunn,  in  the  A bhundluny  der 
bayerschen  Akademie  der  1 1 ’iss.  vol.  vi;  AATmn,  in  Ben- 
gel’s  Archie.  II, i, 292  sq. ; Anger,  De  temporum  in  Act. 
A post,  ratione  diss.  i,  Lips.  1830,  p.  30  sq. ; Browne,  Ordo 
Sevclorum,  Lund.  1844, p.  504),  to  determine  during  which 
of  the  years  of  this  period  the  Paschal  day  must  have  oc- 
curred on  Friday  (see  Strong’s  Harm,  and  Exposit.  Ap- 
pend. i,  p.  8 sq.) ; but  the  inexactness  of  the  Jewish  cal- 
endar makes  every  such  computation  uncertain  (AATirm, 
ut  sup.  p.  294  sq.).  A'ct  it  is  worthy  of  notice  that  the 
two  most  recent  investigations  of  AVurm  and  Anger  both 
make  the  year  A.D.  31,  or  784  of  Rome,  to  be  such  a cal- 
endar year  as  we  require.  AA’ieseler,  Chronol.  Synops. 
p.  479),  on  the  other  hand,  protests  against  the  forego- 
ing computations,  and  insists  that  in  A.D.  30  alone  the 
Paschal  day  fell  on  Friday.  According  to  other  calcu- 
lations, A.D.  29  and  33  are  the  only  years  of  this  period 
in  which  the  Paschal  eve  fell  on  Thursday  (see  Browne, 
Ordo  Sa’clorum,  p.  55),  while  so  great  discrepancy  pre- 
vails between  other  computations  (see  Townsend’s  Chro- 
nological X.  T.  p.  *159)  that  little  or  no  reliance  can  be 
placed  upon  this  argument  (see  Strong’s  Harm,  and  Ex- 
posit. Append,  i,  p.  8 sq.).  See  Passover.  The  opin- 
ion of  some  of  the  ancient  writers  (Irenams,  ii,  22,  5), 
that  Jesus  died  at  40  or  50  years  of  age  (compare  John 
viii,  57),  is  altogether  improbable  (see  Pisanski,  Z>e  er- 
rot'e  Jrena  i in  determinanda  rr fate  Christi,  licgiom.  1777). 
The  most  of  the  Church  fathers  (Tertull.  J dv.  Jud.  8; 
Lactantins,  lustitnt.  iv,  10 ; Augustine,  Civ.  dei,  xviii,  54  ; 
Clem.  Alex.  Strom,  i.  p.  147,  etc.)  assign  but  a single  year 
as  the  duration  of  Christ’s  ministry,  and  place  his  death 
in  the  consulship  of  the  two  Gemini  (AT1I  Cal.  April. 
Coss.  C.  Ruhellio  Gcmino  et  C.  Rutio  Gemino),  i.  e.  782 
of  Rome,  A.D.  29,  the  15th  year  of  Tiberius’s  reign, 
which  Idcler  ( Chronology , ii. 418  sq.)  has  lately  (so  also 
Browne,  Ordo  Sadorum,  p.  80  sq.)  attempted  to  recon- 
cile with  Luke  iii,  1 (but  see  Seyffarth,  Chronol.  Sacra, 
p.  115  sq. ; Eusebius,  in  his  Citron.  Armen,  ii,  p.  264, 
places  the  death  of  Jesus  in  the  19tli  year  of  Tiberius, 
which  Jerome,  in  his  Latin  translation,  calls  the  18th; 
on  the  above  reckoning  of  the  fathers,  see  Petavius, 
madvers.  p.  146  sq. ; Tliilo,  Cod.  Apocr.  i,  497  sq.).  Op 
the  observation  of  the  sun  at  the  crucifixion  (Matt, 
xxvii,  45;  Mark  xv,  33;  Luke  xxiii,  44),  see  Eclipse. 
(On  the  chronological  elements  of  the  life  of  Jesus,  see 
generally  liottinger,  Pentas  dissert  at.  bibl.-chronol.  p.218 
sq. ; AAiss , De  unnis  Christi  dissert  at.  Amst.  1643 ; Lupi, 
De  notis  chronolog.  anni  mortis  et  nativ.  J.  C.  dissertat. 
Rom.  1744;  Horix,  Observat.  hist,  chronol.de  unnis  Chr. 
Mogunt.  1789 ; compare  A'olbeding,  p.  20 ; Hase,  p.  52.) 
See  Chronology. 

4.  The  two  family  registers  of  Jesus  (Matt,  i and  Luke 
iii),  of  which  the  first,  is  descending  and  the  latter  as- 
cending, vary  considerably  from  each  other;  inasmuch 
I as  not  only  entirely  different  names  of  ancestors  are  giv- 


878 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST 

en  from  Joseph  upwards  to  Zerubbabel  and  Salathiel 
(Matt,  i,  12  sq.;  Luke  iii,  27),  but  also  Matthew  carries 
back  Joseph’s  lineage  to  David’s  son  Solomon  (ver.  6 
sq.),  while  Luke  refers  it  to  another  son  Nathan  (ver. 
31).  Moreover,  Matthew  only  goes  back  as  far  as  Abra- 
ham (as  he  wrote  for  Jewish  readers),  but  Luke  (in 
agreement  with  the  general  scope  of  his  gospel)  as  far 
as  Adam  < < Jod).  This  disagreement  early  engaged  the 
attention  of  the  Church  fathers  (see  Eusebius,  Ilist.Ev. 

i,  7),  and  later  interpreters  have  adopted  various  hy- 
potheses for  the  reconcilement  of  the  two  evangelists 
(see  especially  Surenhus.  Bi/iXoij  KaraWaytjc,  p.  320 
sq. ; Kits,  Harmon.  evang.  i,  05  sq. ; Thiess,  Krit.  Com- 
mentin', ii,  271  sq. ; Ivuindl,  Proleg.  in  Mutt.  § 4).  T.  here 
are  properly  only  two  general  representations  possible. 
For  the  history  of  Christ’s  parents,  see  Joseph;  Mary. 

(a)  Matthew  traces  the  lineage  through  Joseph,  Luke 
gives  the  maternal  descent  (comp,  also  Neander,  p.  21) ; 
so  that  the  person  called  Eli  in  Luke  iii,  23,  appears  to 
have  been  the  father  of  51  ary  (see  especially  Helvicus, 
in  Crcnii  Erercitat.philul.hist.  iii,  p.  332  sq. ; Spanbeim, 
Dubiu  evang.  i,  13  sq. ; Bengal,  Ileumann,  Paulus,  Kui- 
niil,  in  their  Commentaries ; Wieseler,  in  the  Studien  u. 
Krit.  1815,  p.  361  sq. ; on  the  contrary,  Bleek,  Beit  rage 
z.  Ecnngelienkrit.  p.  101  sq.).  But,  in  the  first  place,  in 
that  case  Luke  would  hardly  have  written  so  expressly 
“the  son  of  Eli”  (jov  'HA/'),  since  we  must  understand 
all  the  following  genitives  to  refer  to  the  actual  fathers 
and  not  to  the  fathers-in-law  (the  appeal  to  Ruth  i,  11 
sq.,  for  the  purpose  of  showing  that  a daughter-in-law 
could  ha  called  daughter  among  the  Hebrews,  is  una- 
vailing for  the  distinction  in  question) ; although,  in  the 
second  place,  we  need  not  understand  the  Salathiel  and 
Zerubbabel  named  in  one  genealogy  to  have  been  both 
different  persons  from  those  mentioned  in  the  other 
(Paulus,  Comment,  i,  243  sq. ; Robinson,  Or.  Ifurmong, 
p.  1*6),  which  is  a very  questionable  expedient  (see 
especially  II  tig,  Einleitung,  ii,  266;  Methodist  Quart  trig 
Review,  ( let.  1852,  p.  602  sq.).  Aside  from  the  fact  that 
Luke  does  not  even  mention  the  mother  of  Jesus  (but 
only  Matt.i,  16), and  from  the  further  fact  that  the  Jews 
were  not  at  all  accustomed  to  record  the  genealogies  of 
women  ( liaha  liuthra,  f.  1 10,  “The  father’s  family,  not 
the  mother’s,  is  accounted  t tie  true  lineage;”  compare 
AVetstein,  i,  231),  we  might  make  an  exception  in  the 
case  of  the  Messiah,  who  was  to  be  descended  from  a 
virgin  (compare  also  Paulus,  Leben  J.  i,  00).  A still  dif- 
ferent explanation  (Voss,  ut  sup.;  comp,  also  Sell  lever, 
in  the  Theol.  Quartalschr.  1836,  p.  4113  sq.,  539  sq.),  name- 
ly, that  Eli,  although  the  father  of  Mary,  is  here  intro- 
duced as  being  the  grandfather  of  Joseph  (according  to 
the  supposition  that  Mary  was  an  heiress,  Numb,  xxvii, 
8),  proceeds  upon  an  entirely  untenable  interpretation 
(sec  Paulus,  Comment,  i,  243, 261).  Notwithstanding  the  I 
foregoing  objection  to  the  view  under  consideration,  it 
moots,  perhaps  better  than  any  other,  the  difficulties  of 
the  subject.  See  Genealogy. 

(b)  Some  assume  that  the  proper  father  of  Joseph 
was  Eli : he,  as  a brother,  or  (as  the  difference  of  the 
names  up  to  Salathiel  necessitates)  as  the  nearest  rela- 
tive (half-brother?),  had  married  Mary,  the  wife  of  the 
deceased  childless  Jacob,  and  according  to  the  Lcvirate 
law  (q.  v.)  Joseph  would  appear  as  the  son  of  Jacob,  and 
would,  in  lact,  have  two  fathers  (so  Ambrosius);  or  con- 
versely, we  may  suppose  that  Jacob  was  the  proper  fa- 
ther ol  Joseph,  anil  Eli  his  childless  deceased  uncle 
(comp.  Julius  Afric.  in  Eusebius,  Hist.  Ev.  i,  7;  Calix- 
tns,  Clerieus).  This  hypothesis,  which  still  conflicts 
with  the  Lcvirate  rule  that  only  the  deceased  is  called 
father  of  the  posthumous  son  ( Dent,  xxv,  6),  Hug  ( Einl. 

ii,  268  sq. ),  has  been  so  modified  as  to  presume  a Levirate 
marriage  as  far  hack  as  Salathiel,  by  which  the  mention 
of  Salathiel  and  Zerubbabel  in  both  lists  would  be  ex- 
plained; and  Hug  also  introduces  such  a marriage  be- 
tween the  parents  of  Joseph,  and  still  another  among 
more  distant  relatives.  This  is  ingenious,  but  too  com- 
plicated (see  generally  Paulus,  ut  sup.  p.  260).  If  a di-  | 


! red  descent  of  Jesus  could  have  been  laid  down  from 
David,  there  remains  no  reason  why,  when  the  natural 
extraction  of  the  Messiah  straight  from  David  was  so 
important,  the  very  evangelist  who  wrote  immediately 
for  Jewish  readers  should  have  traced  the  indirect  line- 
! age.  But  if  so  many  as  three  Levirate  marriages  had 
occurred  together  (as  Hug  thinks),  we  should  suppose 
that  Matthew,  on  account  of  the  infrequency  of  such  a 
case,  would  have  given  his  readers  some  hint,  or  at  least 
not  have  written  (ver.  16)  “ begat”  ( iytvvtjat ) in  a man- 
ner quite  calculated  to  mislead.  Moreover,  this  hypoth- 
esis of  Hug  rests  upon  an  interpretation  of  1 Chron.  iii, 
18  sq.,  which  that  scholar  himself  could  only  have  cho- 
sen in  a genealogical  difficulty.  See  Lev t rath  Law. 

(c)  If  both  the  foregoing  explanations  be  rejected, 
there  remains  no  other  course  than  to  renounce  the  at- 
tempt to  reconcile  the  two  family  lines  of  Jesus,  and 
frankly  acknowledge  a discrepancy  between  the  evan- 
gelists, as  some  have  done  (Stroth,  in  Eiclihorn’s  Re- 
pert.  ix,  131  sq. ; Ammon,  Bibl.  Theol.  ii,  266;  Thiess, 
Krit.  Comment,  ii,  271  sq. ; Fritzsche,  ad  Matt.  p.  35; 
Strauss,  i,  105  sq. ; De  Wette,  B.  Crusius,  Alford,  on  Luke 
iii).  In  the  decayed  family  of  Joseph  it  might  not  have 
been  possible,  especially  after  so  much  misfortune  as  be- 
fell the  country  and  people,  to  recover  any  written  ele- 
ments for  the  construction  of  a family  register  back  to 
David.  Were  the  account  of  Julius  Africanus  (in  Eu- 
sebius, i,7 ; compare  Schottgen,  Hor.  Hebr.  p.  885),  that 
king  Herod  had  caused  the  family  records  of  the  Jews 
to  be  burned,  correct,  the  want  of  such  information 
would  be  still  more  evident  (but  see  AVetstein,  i,  p.  232; 
AA'icseler,  in  the  Stud.  u.  Kritik.  1845,  p.  369).  In  that 
case,  after  the  need  of  such  registers  had  arisen,  persons 
would  naturally  have  set  themselves  to  compiling  them 
from  traditional  recollections,  and  the  variations  of  these 
may  readily  have  resulted  in  a double  lineage.  But 
even  on  this  view  it  has  been  insisted  that  both  lines 
present  the  descent  of  Joseph  and  not  of  Alary,  since  it 
was  unusual  to  exhibit  the  maternal  lineage,  and  the 
Jews  would  not  have  regarded  such  an  extraction  from 
David  as  the  genuine  one.  There  are,  at  all  events,  but 
two  positions  possible:  either  the  supernatural  genera- 
tion of  Jesus  by  the  Holy  Spirit  was  admitted,  or  Jesus 
was  considered  a son  of  Joseph  (Luke  iii,  33).  In  the 
latter  case  a family  record  of  Joseph  entirely  sufficed  for 
the  application  of  the  O.-T.  oracles  to  Jesus;  in  the  for- 
mer case  it  has  been  conceived  that  such  a register 
would  have  been  deemed  superfluous,  and  every  natural 
lineage  of  Jesus  from  David  (Rom.  i,  3)  wotdd  have 
thrown  his  divine  origin  into  the  background.  This 
has  been  alleged  as  the  reason  why  John  gives  no  gen- 
ealogy at  all,  and  generally  says  nothing  of  the  extrac- 
tion of  Jesus  from  the  family  of  David  (see  ATon  Ammon, 
Leb.  Jes.  i,  179  sq.).  The  force  of  these  arguments,  how- 
ever, is  greatly  lessened  by  the  consideration  that  the 
early  Christians,  in  meeting  the  Jews,  would  be  very 
anxious,  if  possible,  to  prove  Christ’s  positive  descent 
from  David  through  both  his  reputed  and  his  real  par- 
ent; the  more  so,  as  the  former  was  avowed  to  be  only 
nominally  such,  leaving  the  whole  actual  lineage  to  be 
made  out  on  the  mother’s  side.  (See  generally  Baum- 
garten,  J)e  genenlogia  Chr.  Hal.  1749;  Durr,  Geneulogia 
Jesu,  Gott.  1778;  Btisching’s  Harmon,  d.  Evang.  p.  187 
sq.,  264  sq.)  See  Genealogy  of  Christ. 

5.  The  wonderful  birth  of  Jesus  through  the  inter- 
vention of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  only  the  synoptical 
gospels  relate  (Luke  i,  26  sq. ; Matt,  i,  is  sq. ; the  apoc- 
ryphal gospels,  in  order  to  remove  all  idea  of  the  con- 
ception of  Alary  by  Joseph,  make  him  to  have  been 
absent  a long  time  from  home  at  work,  I/istor.  Josephi, 
c.  5;  Ilist.  de  Xaiiv.  Maria1,  c.  10),  has  been  imagined 
by  many  recent  interpreters  (Ammon,  Biblie.  Theol.  ii, 
251  sq.,  and  Comm,  in  narrutionnm  de  primordiis  J.  C. 
fontes,  increment  a et  nexum  c.  rel.  Chr.  Gott.  1798 ; also 
in  his  Xor.  Opusc.  p.  25  sq. ; Bauer,  Theol.  X.  T.  i,  310 
sq. ; Briefe  iiber  Rutionalismus , p.  229  sq.;  Kaiser,  Bibl. 
Theolog.  i,  231  sq.;  Greiling,  p.  24  sq.)  to  have  been  a 


JESUS  CHRIST 


879 


JESUS  CHRIST 


myth  suggested  by  the  O.-Test.  prophecies  (Isa.  vii,  14),  1 
and  they  have  held  Joseph  to  be  the  proper  hither  of  j 
Jesus  (as  it  is  well  known  that  many  in  the  earliest 
Church,  and  individuals  later,  from  time  to  time,  have 
done,  Unschuld.  Xavhr.  1711,  p.  622  sq. ; Walther,  ] 'ers. 
eines  schriftmass.  Beweisse  (lass  Joseph  del’  wahre  Vater 
Christisei , Berl.  1791 ; on  the  contrary,  Oertel,  Antijose- 
phismus  oder  Kritik  des  Schriftm.  Beiv.,  etc.,  Germ. 
1793;  Ilasse,  Josephum  venim  patrem  e /Script ura  non 
fuisse , I teg.  1792;  Ludewig,  Ilistor.  Untersuch.  iiber  die  j 
versch.  Meinnngen  r.  d.  Abknnft  Jes.  Wolfcnbiittel,  1831 ; I 
comp,  also  Korb,  Anticar  us  oder  histor.-krit.  Beleuchtung 
der  Schrift;  “ Die  mitiirl.  Geburt  Jesu  u.  s.  ?/•.”  Leipzig, 
1831)  on  the  following  noways  decisive  grounds:  («) 
“John,  who  stands  in  so  near  a relation  to  Jesus,  and 
must  have  known  the  family  affairs,  relates  nothing  at 
all  of  this  wonderful  birth,  although  it  was  very  appo- 
site to  bis  design.”  But  this  evangelist  shows  the  high 
dignity  of  Jesus  only  from  his  discourses,  the  others 
from  public  evidences  and  a few  astonishing  miracles ; 
moreover,  his  prologue  (i,  1-18)  declares  dogmatically 
pretty  much  the  same  thing  as  the  synoptical  gospels 
do  historically  in  this  respect.  (Compare  also  the  de- 
portment of  Mary,  John  ii,  3 sq.;  see  Neamler,  p.  16 
sq.)  ( b ) “Neither  Jesus  nor  an  apostle  ever  appeals 
in  any  discourse  to  this  circumstance.  Paul  always 
says  simply  that  Jesus  was  born  ‘of  the  seed  of  David’ 
(Bom.  i,  3;  2 Tim.  ii,  8);  once  (Gal.  iv,  4),  more  defi- 
nitely, ‘of  a woman’  (tic  yvvaiKog,  not  irapSivov).”  It 
must  be  admitted,  however,  that  an  appeal  to  a fact 
which  only  one  individual  could  positively  know  by  ex- 
perience would  be  very  ineffectual ; and  an  apostle 
would  be  very  likely  to  subject  himself  to  the  charge  of 
irrelevancy  if  he  resorted  to  such  an  appeal  (comp.  Nic- 
meyer,  Pr.  ad  illustrand.  plurimor.  X.  T.  scriptoram  si- 
lentium  de  primordiis  vitie  J.  C.  Halle,  1790).  But  this 
would  be  laying  as  improper  an  emphasis  upon  the  word 
y vvij  (Gal.  iv,  4)  as  that  of  the  older  theologians  upon 
(Isa.  vii,  14).  (c)  “Mary  calls  Joseph,  without 

qualification,  the  father  of  Jesus  (Luke  ii,  48),  and  also 
among  the  Jews  Jesus  was  generally  called  Joseph’s 
son  (Matt,  xiii,  55;  Mark  vi,  3;  Luke  iii,  23;  iv,  22; 
John  i,  46 ; vi,  42).”  This  last  argument  is  wholly  des- 
titute of  force;  but  Mary  might  naturally,  in  common 
parlance,  call  Joseph  Jesus’s  father , just  as,  in  modern 
phrase,  a foster-father  is  generally  styled  father  when 
definiteness  of  expression  is  not  requisite.  (</)  “The 
brothers  of  Jesus  did  not  believe  in  him  as  the  Messiah 
(John  vii,  5),  which  would  be  inexplicable  if  the  Deity 
bad  already  indicated  him  as  the  Messiah  from  his  very 
birth.”  Yet  these  brothers  had  not  themselves  person- 
ally known  the  fact;  and  it  is,  moreover,  not  uncommon 
that  one  son  in  a family  who  is  a general  favorite  ex- 
cites the  ill-will  of  the  others  to  such  a degree  that  they 
even  deny  his  evident  superiority,  or  that  brothers  fail 
to  appreciate  and  esteem  a mentally  distinguished  broth- 
er. (e)  “ History  shows  in  a multitude  of  examples 
that  the  birth  of  illustrious  men  has  been  embellished 
with  fables  (Wetstein,  X.  T.  i,  p.  236) ; especially  is  the 
notion  of  a birth  without  connection  with  a man  (wop- 
Sti’oyfjojc)  wide  spread  in  the  ancient  world  (Georgi, 
A fphabet.  Tibet.  Bom.  1762,  p.  55  sq.,369  sq.),  and  among 
the  Indians  and  Chinese  it  is  even  applied  to  the  found- 
ers of  religion  (Paul,  a Bartholom.  System.  Brahman,  p. 
158;  Du  Halde,  Beschr.  d.  Chines.  Reichs , iii,  26).”  In 
case  it  is  meant  by  this  that  a wonderful  generation  of 
a holy  man,  effected  immediately  by  the  Spirit  of  God, 
was  embraced  in  the  circle  of  Oriental  belief  (Bosen- 
mliller,  in  G alder’s  Journ.f.  ansserl.  theol.  Liter,  ii,  253 
sq.),  this  argument  might  make  the  purely  historical 
character  of  the  doctrine  in  question  dubious,  were  it 
capable  of  proof  that  such  an  idea  also  harmonizes  with 
the  principles  of  the  Israelitish  monotheism,  or  could  it 
be  .made  probable  (Weisse,  Leben  Jesu,  i,  176  sq.)  that 
this  account  of  the  birth  of  Jesus  is  a heathen  produc- 
tion (see,  on  the  contrary,  Neander,  p.  12  sq.).  On  the 
other  hand,  however,  this  statement  stands  so  isolated  , 


in  the  Christian  tradition,  and  so  surpasses  the  range  of 
the  profane  conceptions,  that  we  can  hardly  reject  the 
idea  that  it  must  have  operated  to  enhance  the  estimate 
of  Christ’s  dignity.  It  has  been  suggested  as  possible 
(Pauliis,  Leben  Jesu,  i,  97  sq.)  that,  the  hope  had  already 
formed  itself  in  the  soul  of  Mary  that  she  would  become 
the  mother  of  the  Messiah  (which,  however,  is  contra- 
dicted by  her  evident  surprise  and  difficulty  at  the  an- 
nouncement, Luke  i,  29,  34),  and  that  this*  had  drawn 
nourishment  from  a vision  in  a dream,  as  the  angelic 
annunciation  (Luke  i,  26  sip)  has  been  (but  with  the 
greatest  violence)  interpreted  (see,  however,  Van  Oos- 
terzee,  De  Jesu  e Virgine  nato,  Utr.  1840).  See  Coxcei- 

TIOX. 

Bethlehem,  too  (Wagner,  De  loco  nat.  J.  Chr.  Colon. 
Brandenb.  1673),  as  the  place  of  Christ's  birth,  has  been 
deemed  to  belong  to  the  mythical  dress  of  the  narrative 
(comp.  Mic.  v,  1 ; see  Thicss,  Krit.  Comment,  ii.  414),  and 
it  has  therefore  been  inferred  that  Jesus  was  not  only 
begotten  in  Nazareth,  but  also  born  there  (Kaiser.  Bibh 
Theol.  i,  230) — which,  nevertheless,  does  not  follow  from 
John  i,  46.  That  Jesus  was  born  in  Bethlehem  is  stated 
| in  two  of  the  evangelical  accounts  (Matt,  ii,  1 ; Luke  ii, 
4),  as  may  also  be  elsewhere  gathered  from  the  events 
i which  follow  his  birth.  But  a more  direct  discrepancy 
between  Matthew  and  Luke  (Hase,  p.  44),  respecting  Jo- 
j seph’s  belonging  to  Bethlehem  (Matt,  ii,  22,23;  Luke  i, 
26;  ii,  4),  cannot  be  substantiated  (compare  generally 
I Gelpe,  Jugendgesch.  d.  Herrn,  Beme,  1841.)  See  Betii- 

, LEITEM. 

6.  Among  the  relatives  of  Jesus,  the  following  are 
named  in  the  N.Test. : (a)  Mary,  Jesus’s  mother’s  sister 
(John  xix,  25).  According  to  the  usual  apprehension 
of  this  passage  [see  Salome],  she  was  married  to  one 
j Clopas  or  Alplueus  (q.  v.),  and  had  as  sons  James  (q.  v.) 
i the  younger  (Acts  i,  13)  and  Joses  (Matt,  xxvii,  56; 

1 Mark  xv,  40).  See  Map.v.  (6)  Elizabeth,  who  is  called 
the  relative  {<rvyyevi]c,  “cousin”)  o l Mary  (Luke  i,36). 
Bespeeting  the  degree  of  relationship,  nothing  can  be 
determined:  it  has  been  questioned  (Paulns,  Comment. 
i,  78)  whether  she  was  of  the  tribe  of  Levi,  but  this  ap- 
pears certain  from  Luke  i,  5.  In  a fragment  of  Hippol- 
ytus  of  Thebes  (in  Fabricii  Pseudepigr.  ii,  290)  she  is 
called  Sube,  the  daughter  of  Mary’s  mother’s  sister.  She 
was  married  to  the  priest  Zacliarias,  and  bore  to  him 
John  the  Baptist  (Luke  i,  57  sq.).  See  Elizabeth. 
(c)  Brethren  of  Jesus  (ditXtpoi,  Matt,  xii,  46,  and  paral- 
lel passages;  John  ii,  12;  vii, 3, 5, 10;  Acts  i, 14;  ddA- 
<poi  tov  Ki’pioe,  1 Cor.  ix,  5),  by  the  name  of  James, 
Joses  (q.  v.),  Simon,  and  Judas  (Matt,  xiii,  55,  and  the 
parallel  passage,  Mark  vi,  3).  (On  these  see  Clemen,  in 
the  Zeitschr.f.  n-iss.  Theol.  iii, 329  sq.;  A.H.  Bloom. De 
I roig  dfeXpotg  et  raig  dhXcp.  tov  Kvpiov,  Lugd.  Bat. 
j 1839;  Wicselcr,  in  the  StmHcn  u.  Kritik.  1842,  i,  7 1 sq.; 
Scliaff,  Das  1 '<  rhaltn.  dis  Jacob.  Brud.  d.  Herrn  zu  Jacob. 
A Iphai,  Berl.  1842,  p.  1 1 sq.,  34  sq. ; Grimm,  in  the  Hall. 
Encycl.  2,  sect,  xxiii,  p.  80  sq.;  Method.  Quar.  Per.  Oct. 
1851,  p.  670-672;  on  their  descendants,  Euseb .llist.Ev. 
iii,  20, 33;  see  Kiirncr,  De  propinqnor.  Serratoris  pc-rse- 
cutione.  Lips.  1782.)  In  the  passages  Matt,  xii,  46 ; xiii, 
55;  John  ii.  12;  Acts  i,  14,  are  unquestionably  to  be  un- 
derstood proper  brothers,  as  they  me  all  together  named 
conjointly  with  the  mother  of  Jesus  (and  with  Joseph, 
Matt,  xiii,  55) ; the  same  is  the  natural  inference  from 
the  statement  (John  vii,  5)  that  the  brethren  (d£tX<poi) 
of  Jesus  had  not  believed  in  him  as  the  Messiah.  On 
“James,  the  brother  of  the  Lord”  fldicwdot;  b dStXQug 
K i.'pior,  Gal.  i,  19),  see  James.  These  brethren  were 
regarded  as  mere  relatives,  or.  more  exactly,  cousins 
(namely,  sons  of  Mary,  Jesus’s  mother’s  sister),  by  the 
Church  fathers  (especially  Jerome,  ad  Matt,  xii,  46); 
also  lately  bv  Jessieu  ( Authentic . epist.  Jud.  p.  36  sq.), 
Sclnieekenburger  (Ep.  Jac.  p.  144  sq.),  Olshausen  ( Com- 
ment. i,  465  sq.),  Glbekler  (Evany,  i,  407),  Kuhn  (Jahrb. 
f.  Theol.  und  christl.  Philos.  1834,  iii,  pt.  i),  and  others, 
partly  on  the  ground  that  the  names  James  and  Joses 
appear  among  the  sons  of  the  other  Mary  (Matt,  xxvii. 


JESUS  CHRIST  880  JESUS  CHRIST 


56),  partly  that  it  is  not  certain  that  Mary,  after  her  first 
conception  l>v  the  Holy  Spirit,  ever  became  the  mother 
of  other  children  by  her  husband  (see  Origen,  in  Matt. 
iii,  4ti:5,  cd.  tie  la  llue;  comp.  Eusebius,  Hint.  Keel,  ii,  1). 
The  latter  argument  is  of  no  force  (see  Schaff,  p.  20)  ; on 
the  former,  see  below.  But  the  term  “ brethren”  (ddtX- 
(pot),  since  it  does  of  itself  indicate  blood  relatives,  can- 
not without  utter  confusion  be  used  of  mere  cousins  in 
immediate  connection  with  the  mother.  And  if  it  de- 
notes proper  brothers,  as  also  Bloom  and  Wieseler  sup- 
pose, the  question  still  remains  whether  these  had  both 
parents  the  same  with  Jesus  (i.e.  were  his  full  brothers), 
or  were  the  sons  of  Joseph  by  a former  marriage  (half- 
brothers;  compare  Theophyl.  ad  1 Cor.  9).  The  latter 
opinion  [sec  JoskimiJ.  which  is  based  upon  an  old  (Ebi- 
onitic)  tradition  (see  Fabricius,  Pseudepiyr.  i,  291;  Thilo, 
Cod.  A poor,  i,  109,  208,  362  sq.),  is  held  as  probable  by 
(irotius  (ad  Jut.  i,  1),  Yorstius  (De  llebr.  Nov.  Test.  ed. 
Fischer,  p.  71  sq.),  Paulus  ( Comment . i,  61 13),  Bertholdt 
( Kinleit.v , 656  sq.),  and  others;  the  former  by  Herder 
(Briefe  zweener  K ruder  J.  p.7  sq.),  Pott  ( Prolee) . in  Kp. 
Jac.  p.  90),  Ammon  (Bill.  Theol.  ii,  259),  Eichhorn  (Kid. 
ins  X.  T.  iii,  570  sq.),  Kuinbl  (ad  Matt,  xii,  46),  Clement 
(ut  sup.),  llengel  (in  his  X.  Archie,  ii,  9 sq.),  Stier  (.4 n- 
deut.  i,  404  sq.),  Fritzsche  (ad  Matt.  481),  Neandcr  (Leb. 
Jest/,  p.  39  sq.),  Wieseler  and  Schaff  (ut  sup.),  and  oth- 
ers. An  intimation  that  favors  this  last  view  is  con- 
tained in  the  expression  “first-born”  (Matt,  i,  25;  Luke 
ii,  7),  which  is  further  corroborated  by  the  statement  of 
abstinence  from  matrimonial  intercourse  until  the  birth 
of  Jesus  (Matt,  i,  25;  but  see  Olshausen,  ad  loc.),  which 
seems  to  imply  that  the  brothers  in  question  were  later 
sons  of  Joseph  and  Mary.  The  circumstance  that  the 
sister  of  Jesus’s  mother  had  two  sons  similarly  named — 
James  and  Joses  (or  three,  if  we  understand  T ovSae;  ’ler- 
Kiofiou  [Luke  vi,  16]  to  mean  “ brother  of  James”  [see 
Jl'das]) — is  not  conclusive  against  this  view,  since  in 
two  nearly-related  families  it  is  not  even  now  unusual 
to  find  children  of  the  same  name,  especially  if,  as  in  the 
present  ease,  these  names  were  in  common  use.  Eicli- 
horn’s  explanation  (ut  sup.  p.  571)  is  based  upon  a long 
since  exploded  hypothesis,  and  requires  no  refutation. 
John  xix,  26,  contains  no  valid  counter-argument:  the 
brothers  of  Jesus  may  have  become  convinced  by  his 
resurrection  (Matt,  xxviii,  10),  and,  even  had  they  been 
so  at  his  death,  yet  perhaps  the  older  and  more  spirit  u- 
ally-kindred  John  may  have  seemed  to  Jesus  more  suit- 
able to  carry  out  his  last  wishes  than  even  bis  natural 
brothers  (see  Pott,  ut  sup.  p.76  sq.;  Clement,  ut  sup.  p. 
360  sip).  At  all  events,  the  brothers  of  Jesus  arc  not 
only  expressed  as  having  become  at  length  believers  in 
him,  but  they  even  appear  somewhat  later  among  the 
publishers  of  the  Gospel  (Acts  i,  14;  1 Cor.  ix,5).  See 
IhtoriiKus.  (d)  Sisters  of  Jesus  arc  mentioned  in  Matt, 
xiii,  56;  Mark  vi,  3 (in  Mark  iii,  32,  the  words  uai  <-i 
itStXipui  are  of  very  doubtful  authenticity).  Their 
names  are  not  given.  That  we  arc  to  understand  own 
sisters  is  plain  from  the  foregoing  remarks  respecting 
bis  brothers.  (e)  Finally,  an  ecclesiastical  tradition 
makes  Salome,  the  wife  of  Zebcdee,  and  mother  of  the 
apostles  James  and  John  (Mark  xv,4i);  xvi.  1,  etc.),  to 
have  been  a relative  of  Jesus.  (See  Ilase,  p.  55.)  See 
Salome. 

7.  Jesus  was  educated  at  Nazareth  (Ilase,  p.  57;  Wcisse, 
J)e  ./.  C.  edueatione,  llelmst.  1698;  Lange,  l)e  profectib. 
Christi  adolese.  Altdorf,  1699),  but  attended  no  (Habbin- 
ieal)  schools  (John  vii,  15).  lie  appears,  according  to 
the  custom  of  the  times,  to  have  learned  the  trade  ol'his 
adopted  father  (Justin  Mart.  c.  Tn/ph.  88,  p.316,  ed.  Col.; 
comp.  Theodor.  Hist.  Keel,  iii,  28;  Sozomcn,  vi,  2,  etc.')’ 
but  this  lie  did  not  continue  to  practice  at  the  same  time 
with  his  career  of  teaching,  as  was  usual  with  all  the 
Habbins  (compare  Neander,  p.  54).  By  this  means  he 
may  in  part  have  acquired  his  subsistence  (comp.  Mark 
vi,  3 ; but  Origen,  Contra  Celsum,  6,  p.  299,  denies  this 
statement,  and  Tischeudorf  omits  6 t/ktmv).  Besides, 
his  followers  supplied  him  with  liberal  presents,  and,  on 


his  journeys,  the  Oriental  usages  of  hospitality  (John  v, 
45;  xii,  2)  served  him  in  good  stead  (see  llau,  UndeJes. 
aliment  a ritee  aeceperit,  Erlang.  1794).  See  Hospital- 
ity. A number  of  grateful  women  also  accompanied 
him  for  a considerable  time,  who  cared  for  his  mainten- 
ance (Luke  viii,  2;  Mark  xv, 41).  lie  had  a common 
travelling-purse  with  the  apostles  (John  xii,  6;  xiii,  29), 
from  which  the  stock  of  provisions  for  the  journey  was 
provided  (Luke  ix,  13;  Matt,  xiv,  17  sq.,  etc.).  We 
certainly  cannot  regard  Jesus  as  properly  poor  in  the 
sense  of  indigent  (see  Walch,  Miscell,  Saer.  p.  866  sq.), 
for  this  apiiears  (Henke’s  Mus.  ii,  610  sq.)  neither  from 
Matt,  viii,  20  (see  Lunze,  De  Christi  divitiis.et paupe/iate, 
Lips.  1784),  nor  yet  from  2 Cor.  viii,  9 (see  Beitraye  z. 
vern'unftiyeu  Denk.  iv,  160  sq.),  and  John  xix,  23,  rather 
shows  the  contrary  (comp.  Bar-Hebneus,  Chron.  p.  251) ; 
yet  his  parents  were  by  no  means  in  opulent  circum- 
stances (see  Luke  ii,  24;  comp.  Lev.  xii,  8),  and  he  him- 
self possessed  (Matt,  viii,  20)  at  least  no  real  estate  what- 
ever (see  generally  Bau,  De  cavsis  car  J.C.  paupertati 
se  subjecerit.  p/'eecipuis,  Erlang.  1787 ; Siebenhaar,  in  the 
Sachs,  eget.  Stud,  ii,  168  sq.).  See  Humiliation.  Dur- 
ing his  public  career  of  teaching,  Jesus  (when  not  trav- 
elling) staid  chiefly  and  of  choice  at  Capernaum  (Matt, 
iv,  13),  and  only  on  one  or  two  occasions  (Luke  iv,  16; 
Mark  vi,  1)  visited  Nazareth  (see  Kiesling,  De  J.  Nazar, 
ingrata  patria  exule,  Lips.  1741).  In  exterior  he  con- 
stantly observed  the  customs  of  his  people  (see  A.  Ge- 
senius,  Ch/'ist.  deeoro gentis  sme  se  aceommodasse,  llelmst. 
1734  ; Gude,  De  Christo  et  discipulis  ejus  decori  studiosis, 
in  the  Nor.  miscellan.  Ups.  iii,  563  sq.),  and,  far  from 
wishing  to  attract  attention  by  singularity  or  austerity, 
he  took  part  in  the  pleasures  of  social  life  (John  ii,  1 sq.; 
Luke  vii,  31  sq.;  Matt,  xi,  16  sq. ; compare  ix,  14  sip). 
Nevertheless,  he  never  married  (compare  Clem.  Alex. 
Strom,  iii,  191  sq. ; see  Scldeiermacher,  Der  Christliche 
Glanbe,  1st  ed.  ii,  526),  for  the  supposition  of  Schulthess 
(Neatest,  theolog.  Ntichr.  1826,  i,  20  sq. ; 1828,  i,  102  sip) 
that  Jesus  was  married  according  to  Jewish  usage,  with 
the  addition  that  his  wife  (and,  perhaps,  several  children 
by  her)  had  died  before  his  entrance  upon  public  life,  is 
a pure  hypothesis  that  at  least  deserves  no  countenance 
from  the  silence  in  the  N.T.  as  to  any  such  occurrences; 
and  the  stupendous  design  already  in  the  mind  of  the 
youthful  Jesus  afforded  no  motive  for  marriage,  and,  in- 
deed, did  not  admit  (compare  Matt,  xix,  12)  such  a con- 
finement to  a narrower  circle  (see  Wcisse,  Leben  Jesu,  i, 
249  sq. ; comp.  Ilase,  p.  109).  Additional  literature  may 
be  seen  in  Yolbeding,  p.  17, 18 ; Ilase,  p.  59.  Sec  Naza- 

ItKXE. 

8.  The  length  of  Jesus’s  public  ministry  (beginning 
about  the  30th  year  of  his  age,  Luke  iii,  24;  sec  Bosch, 
in  the  Brem.  u.  Verel.  Biblioth.  iii,  813  sip),  as  well  as 
the  chronological  sequence  of  the  single  events  related 
in  the  Gospels,  is  very  variously  estimated.  (See  Hase, 
p.  17.)  The  first  three  evangelists  give,  as  the  seene 
of  their  transactions  (after  his  temptation  and  the  im- 
prisonment of  the  Baptist,  Matt,  iv,  1-13).  almost  exclu- 
sively Galilee  (De  Galilcea  opportuno  Serrataris  mirae- 
vlor.  themra,  Giitt.  1775),  inasmuch  as  Jesus  had  his  res- 
idence then  in  the  city  Capernaum,  especially  in  the 
winter  months  (Matt,  iv,  13;  viii,  5;  xvii,  24;  Mark  i, 
21 ; ii,  1,  etc.).  For  the  most  part,  we  find  him  in  the  ro- 
mantic and  thickly  settled  neighborhood  of  the  Sea  of 
Tiberias,  or  upon  its  surface  (M at t.  viii,  23  sq. ; xiii,  1 
sq.;  xiv,  13;  Luke  viii,  22),  also  on  the  other  side  in 
Persea  (Matt,  viii, 28;  Luke  viii, 26;  Mark  vii, 31).  Once 
he  went  as  far  as  within  the  Phoenician  boundaries 
(Matt,  xv,  21 ; Mark  vii, 24  sq.).  But  in  the  synoptical 
gospels  lie  only  appears  once  to  have  visited  Jerusalem, 
at  the  time  of  the  last  Passover  (Matt,  xxi  sq.;  Mark 
xi  sq.;  Luke  xix  sq.).  According  to  this,  the  duration 
of  his  teaching  might  lie  limited  to  a single  year  (Euseb. 
iii,  24),  and  many  (appealing  to  Luke  iv,  19;  comp.  Isa. 
lxi,  1 sip;  see  Origen,  Horn.  32 ; comp.  Tcrtull.  .4  dr.  Jud. 
C.8;  but  see  Korncr,  p.  4)  already  in  the  ancient  Church 
(Clem.  Alex.  «S7row.  i,  p.  147 ; Origen,  Drineip.  iv,  5)  only 


JESUS  CHRIST 


881 


JESUS  CHRIST 


allow  this  space  to  his  public  mission  (compare  Mann, 
Three  Years  of  the  Birth  ami  Death  of  Christ,  p.  101; 
Priestly,  Harmony  of  the  Evangelists,  London,  1774,  ii,  4 ; 
Browne,  Ordo  Sieclorum,  p.  634  sip) ; although,  inde- 
pendently of  all  the  others,  Luke  vi,  1 (second-Jirst  Sab- 
bath) affords  indication  of  a second  Passover  which  Je- 
sus celebrated  during  his  public  career.  See  Sabbatii. 

On  the  other  hand,  John’s  Gospel  shows  (comp.  Jaco- 
bi, Zur  Chronul.  d.  Lebens  J.  iin  Evang.  Joh.  in  the  Stud. 
v.Krit.  15S3S,  iv,  845  sq.)  that  Jesus  was  not  only  often- 
er,  but  generally  in  Judaea  (whence  he  once  travelled 
through  Samaria  to  Galilee,  John  iv,  4;  compare  his  re- 
turn, Luke  xvii,  11),  namely,  in  the  holy  city  Jerusalem 
(but  this  difference  agrees  with  the  respective  designs 
of  the  several  gospels;  see  Neander,  p.  385  sq.),  and  in- 
forms us  of  fee  Jewish  festivals  which  Jesus  celebrated 
at  Jerusalem.  The  first,  occurring  soon  after  the  bap- 
tism of  Jesus  (John  ii,  13),  is  a Passover;  the  second 
(John  v,  1)  is  called  indefinitely  “a  feast  of  the  Jews” 
(toon)  tu>v  ’lovCttiiov);  the  third  was  the  Festival  of 
Tabernacles  (John  vii,‘2) ; the  fourth  the  Feast  of  Ded- 
ication (John  x,  22);  and,  lastly,  the  fifth  (John  xii, 
xiii)  again  a Passover:  mention  is  also  made  (John  vi, 
4)  of  still  another  Passover  which  Jesus  spent  in  Galilee, 
lienee  it  would  seem  that  Jesus  was  engaged  some  three 
years  (Origcn,  Contra  Celsum,  ii,p.G7)  as  a public  teach- 
er; and  if  by  the  “feast”  of  John  v,  1 we  are  also  to 
understand  a Passover  (Paulus,  Comm,  i,  901  sq.;  Siis- 
kind,  in  Bengel’s  Archie,  i,  182  sq. ; B.  Crusius,  ad  loc. ; 
Seyffarth,  Chronul.  Sacra,  p.  114;  Bobinson,  Harmony, 
p.  193),  which, however,  is  not  certain  (Liicke,  ad  loo.; 
Anger,  De  temp,  in  Ac/. . 1 post,  ratione,  i,  24  sq. ; Jacobi, 
ut  sup.  p.  8G4  sq.),  we  must  assign  a period  of  three  and 
a half  years  (Eusebius,  i,  10,3),  as  lately  Seyffarth  has 
done  (Summary  of  recent  Discoveries  in  Ckronol.  N.  Y. 
1857,  p.  183),  although  on  the  most  singular  grounds 
(see  Alford,  Commentary  on  John  v,  1).  Otherwise  the 
evangelists  hardly  afford  more  than  two  years  and  a few 
months  (see  Anger,  ut  sup.  p.  28;  llase,  p.  17  sq.)  to  the 
public  labors  of  Jesus  (see  generally  Laurbeck,  De  un- 
ms  ministerii  Chr.,  Altdorf,  1700 ; Kdmer,  Quot  Paschata 
Christus  post  baptism,  celebraverit,  Lips.  1779;  Pries,  De 
tiumero  Paschatum  Christ i,  Bostock,  1789;  Lahode,  JJe 
die  et  anno  nit.  Pasch.  Chr.  Ilal.  1749;  Marsh’s  remarks 
in  Michaclis’s  Introd.  ii,  4G  sq.).  Again,  as  the  apostles 
were  not  uninterruptedly  in  company  with  Jesus,  the 
time  of  their  proper  association  with  him  might  be  still 
further  reduced  somewhat,  although  we  can  not  (with 
Himlcin,  De  temporis,  quo  J.  C.  cum  Apostol.  versatus  est, 
duratione,  Erl.  179G)  assume  it  to  have  been  barely  some 
nine  months.  Tender  these  three  (or  four)  Paschal  fes- 
tivals writers  have  repeatedly  endeavored,  for  historical 
and  particularly  apologetic  purposes,  to  arrange  all  the 
single  occurrences  which  the  first  evangelists  mention 
without  chronological  sequence,  and  so  to  obtain  a com- 
plete chronological  view  of  Jesus’s  entire  journeys  and 
teaching.  Yet,  notwithstanding  so  great  a degree  of 
ingenuity  has  been  expended  upon  this  subject,  none  of 
the  Gospel  Harmonics  hitherto  constructed  can  be  re- 
garded as  more  than  a series  of  historical  conjectures, 
since  the  narrative  of  the  first  three  evangelists  presents 
but  little  that  can  guide  to  a measurably  certain  con- 
clusion in  such  an  arrangement,  and  John  himself  does 
not  appear  to  relate  the  incidents  in  strictly  chronolog- 
ical order  according  to  these  Passovers  (see  generally 
Eichhorn,  Einl.  ins  X.  T.  i,  G92  sq.).  The  most  impor- 
tant of  these  attempts  are,  Lightfoot,C7»’OHic/e  of  the  0. 
ami  A'.  T.  Loud.  1G55 ; Doddridge,  Expositor  of  the  X.  T. 
London,  1739;  Pus,  Harmony i Evangelistar.  Jen.  1727  ; 
Macknight,  Harmony  of  the  four  Gospels,  London,  175G, 
Latine  fecit  notasque  adjeeit  Riickersfelder,  Brem.  1772; 
Bengel.  Richt.  Harmonie  der  4 Evangel.  3d  edit.  Tubing. 
17GG ; Newcome,  I/armony  of  the  Gospels,  Dublin,  1778 ; 
Paulus,  Comment,  i,  44G  sq. ; ii,  1 sq.,  384  sq. ; iii,  82  sq. ; 
Kaiser,  Ueb.  die  sgnopt.  Zusammenstell.  der  4 Evang.  N li- 
re mb.  1828;  Clausen,  Quat,  evangel,  tabu  lie  synopt.sec.  ra- 
tionem  tempor.  Copenhagen,  1829 ; Wieseler,  Chronolog. 
IY. — K K K 


Synopse  der  4 Evang.  Hamb.  1843;  Townsend’s  Chronol. 
A rrang,  of  the  X.  Test.  Loud.  1821,  Bust.  1837 ; Greswell, 
Hurmvhin  Evang.  Loud.  1830;  Bobinson,  Harmony  of 
the  Gospels  (Greek),  Post.  1845  (Engl,  id.) ; Tiscliendorf, 
Synopsis  Evangel.  Leipz.  1851;  Strong,  Harmony  of  the 
Gospels  (English),  N.  Y.  1852  (Greek),  ib.  1854;  Stroud, 
Greek  Harmony,  Loud.  1853.  See  Haiimoxies. 

9.  Besides  the  twelve  apostles  (q.  v.),  Jesus  also  chose 
seventy  (q.  v.)  persons  as  a second  more  private  order 
(Luke  x,  1 sq.),  who  have  been  supposed  by  some  to 
correspond  to  some  Jewish  notion  of  the  seventy  nations 
of  the  world,  inasmuch  as  Luke  shows  a tendency  to 
such  generalization ; but  this  number  was  probably  se- 
lected (see  Kuiubl,  ad  loc.)  with  reference  to  the  seven- 
ty elders  of  the  Jews  (Numb,  xi,  1G  sip),  composing  the 
Sanhedrim,  just  as  the  twelve  apostles  represented  the 
twelve  tribes  of  Israel  (compare  generally  Burniann,  A>- 
ercit.  Acad,  ii,  95  sq. ; llcumann,  De  70  Christi  leyatis, 
Dotting.  1743).  Their  traditional  names  (see  Assemani, 
Biblioth.  Or.  1 1 1,  i,  31 9 sq. : Fabric.  Lux , p.  1 15  sq.),  some 
of  which  are  cited  by  Eusebius  (i,  12),  might  have  some 
historical  ground  but  for  the  manifest  endeavor  to  place 
in  the  illustrious  rank  of  the  seventy  every  conspicuous 
individual  of  the  apostolical  age,  concerning  whom  noth- 
ing positive  was  known  to  the  contrary.  The  account 
of  Luke  himself  has  sometimes  been  called  in  question 
as  unhistorical  (Strauss,  i,  5GG  sq. ; Sehwegler,  Xack- 
apost.  Zeit alter,  ii,  45;  see,  on  the  other  hand,  Neander, 
p.  541  sq.). 

Respecting  the  characteristics  of  Jesus’s  teaching  (see 
especially  Winkler,  Uebir  J . Lehrfahiykeit  vnd  Lehrart, 
Leipz.  1797 ; Behn,  Utb. die.  Lehrart  Jesu  it. seiner  Apos- 
tel,  Liibcck,  1791 ; llaulT, Bemerhtngen  iiber  die  Lehrart . 
Jesu,  Offenbach,  1788;  II.  Ballauf,  Die  Lehrart  Jesu  als 
vortrejjlicli  geztigt,  Hannov.  1817 ; II.  N.  la  Cle,  De  Jcsn 
Ch.  instituendi  methodo  horn,  ingenia  excolente , Griming. 
1835 ; Ammon,  Bib/.  Theol.  ii,  328  sq. ; Planck,  Geschichte 
d.  Christenth.  i,  1G1  sq. ; llase,  Leben  Jes.  p.  123  sq. ; Ne- 
andcr,  p.  151  sq. ; Wcissc,  i,  37G  sq.),  we  may  remark 
that  all  his  discourses,  which  were  delivered  sometimes 
in  the  synagogues  (Matt,  xiii,  54;  Luke  iv,  22,  etc.), 
sometimes  in  public  places,  and  even  in  the  open  field, 
sometimes  in  the  Temple  court,  were  suggested  on  the 
occasion  (John  iv,  32  sq. ; vii,  37  sq.),  either  by  some 
transaction  or  natural  phenomenon,  or  else  by  some  re- 
cital (Luke  xiii,  1),  or  expression  of  others  (Matt,  viii, 
10).  He  loved  especially  to  clothe  his  sentiments  in 
comparisons  (see  G veiling,  p.  201  sq.),  parables  (Matt, 
xiii,  1 1 sq.,  34  sq.)  (for  these  are  pre-eminently  distin- 
guished for  simplicity,  conciseness,  natural  beauty,  in- 
telligibleness, and  dignity;  see  especially  Unger,  Depar- 
abolar.  Jesu  natura,  intrrpretatione,  usu,  Leipz.  1828),  al- 
legories (John  vi,32  sq. ; x;  xv),and  apothegms  (Matt, 
v),  sometimes  also  paradoxes  (John  ii,  19;  vi,  53:  viii, 
58),  which  exactly  suited  the  comprehension  of  his  au- 
dience (Mark  iv, 33;  Luke  xiii,  15  sq.;  xiv,  5 sq.);  and 
he  even  adapted  the  novelty  and  peculiarity  of  his  doc- 
trines to  familiar  Jewish  forms,  which  in  his  mouth  lose 
that  ruggedness  and  uwesthctic  character  in  which  they 
have  come  down  to  us  in  the  Talmud  (comp.  Wcisse,  De 
more  Domini  acceptos  a magistris  Jud.  loquendi  uc  dis- 
serendi  modos  sapienter  emendandi,Yrteb.  1 7 92) . See  Al- 
legory; Parable.  In  contests  with  learned  Jews,  Je- 
sus knew  how,  by  simple  clearness  of  intellect,  to  defeat 
their  arrogant  dialectics,  and  yet  was  able  to  pursue 
their  own  method  of  inferential  argument  (Matt,  xii, 
25).  When  they  proposed  to  him  captious  questions,  he 
brought  them,  not  unfrequentlv  by  similar  questions, 
mostly  in  the  form  of  a dilemma  (Matt,  xxi,  24 ; xxii," 
20;  Luke  x,  29  sq.;  xx,  3 sq.),  or  by  appeal  to  the  ex- 
plicit written  law  or  to  their  sacred  history  (Matt,  ix, 
13 ; xii,  3 sq. ; xix,  4 sq. ; Luke  vi,  2 sq. ; x,  26  sip ; xx, 
28  sq.),  or  by  analogies  from  ordinary  life  (Matt,  xii,  10 
sq.),  to  maintain  silence,  or  put  them  to  embarrassment 
with  all  their  sagacity  and  legal  zeal  (Matt,  xxii,  42  sq. , 
John  viii,  3 sq.) ; sometimes  he  disarmed  them  by  thj 
exercise  of  his  miraculous  power  (Luke  v,  24),  With  a 


JESUS  CHRIST 


8S2 


JESUS  CHRIST 


few  exceptions,  John  alone  assigns  longer  speeches  of  a 
dogmatic  character  to  Jesus;  nor  is  it  any  matter  of 
surprise  that  the  Wisdom  which  delivered  itself  to  the 
populace  in  maxims  and  similes  should  permit  itself  to 
be  understood,  in  the  circle  of  the  priests  and  those  eru- 
dite in  the  law,  connectedly  and  mystically  on  topics  of 
the  higher  gnosis,  although  even  in  John,  of  course,  we 
can  not  expect  the  ipsissinui  re/ba.  In  a formal  treat- 
ment, moreover,  his  representations,  especially  those  ad- 
dressed to  the  people,  could  not  be  free  from  accommoda- 
tion (I',  van  llemert,£W>.  Accommod.  ini  X.  T.  Dortmund 
and  Lcipz.  1797) ; but  whether  he  made  use  of  the  ma- 
terial (not  merely  negative)  species  of  accommodation 
is  not  a historical,  but  a dogmatic  question  (comp,  there- 
on Hretschneider,  J/undb.d.  Dogni.  i , 420  sq.;  Wegsclmei- 
der,  I nut  it  uf.  p.  119  sq. ; De  Wette,  Sittenlehre,  iii,  181 
sq.;  Neandcr,  p.216  sq.).  See  Accommodation.  Like 
the  U.-T.  prophets,  he  sometimes  also  employed  symbol- 
ical acts  (John  xiii,  1 sip,  20, 22;  comp.  Luke  ix,  47  sq.). 
A dignified  expression,  a keen  but  affectionate  look,  a 
gesticulation  reflecting  the  inward  inspiration  (Hege- 
mcister,  Christum  gestus  pro  condone  usurpasse , Servest. 
1774),  may  have  contributed  not  a little  to  the  force  of 
his  words,  and  gained  for  him,  in  opposing  the  Phari- 
sees and  lawyers,  the  enlogium  of  eloquence  (compare 
John  vii,  46;  xviii,  G;  Matt,  vii,  28  sq.).  The  tuition 
which  Jesus  imparted  to  the  apostles  (comp.  Greiling,  p. 
218  sq.),  was  apparently  private  (Matt,  xiii,  11  sq. ; sec 
Chilli,  liibl.  Theol.  ii,  14).  See  Apostle.  Finally,  Jesus 
commonly  spoke  Syro-Chaldee  (comp.  e.  g.  Mark  iii,  17 ; 
v,  41 ; vii,  34;  Matt.  xxvii,47 ; see  Malala,  Chronograph. 
p.  13),  like  the  Palestinian  Jews  generally  [see  Lan- 
guage], not  Greek  (Diodati,  l)e  Christo  Greece  loqnente, 
Neap.  17G7,  translated  in  the  A ni.  liibl.  Repos.  Jan.  1844, 
p.  1 80  sq. ; comp,  on  the  contrary,  Erncsti,  Xeueste  theol. 
liibl.  i,2(!9  sq.),  although  he  might  have  understood  the 
latter  language,  or  even  Latin  (Wernsdorf,  De  Christo 
Ratine  loqnente,  Viteb. ; see  generally  lleiske,  De  lingua 
vern.  J.  C.  Jen.  1G70;  Ilh.  de  Rossi,  Della  lingua  propria 
di  Christo,  Parm.  1773 ; Zeibich ,De  lingua  Judeeor.  temp. 
Christ  i et.  A post.  Vitebsk,  1791;  Wisemann,  in  his  I/or. 
S/jdac.  Horn.  1828).  No  writings  of  his  are  extant  (the 
spuriousness  of  the  so-called  letter  to  the  king  of  Edessa, 
given  by  Eusebius,  i,  13,  is  evident;  comp,  also  Rijhr’s 
Krit.  Vrediger-hiblioth.  i,  1G1  sq.  [see  Abgar]  : the  al- 
leged written  productions  of  Jesus  may  be  seen  in  Fa- 
bricii  Cod.  Apocr.  i,303  sip),  nor  was  there  need  of  any, 
since  he  had  provided  for  the  immediate  dissemination 
of  his  doctrines  through  the  apostles,  and  he  wished 
even  to  turn  away  attention  from  the  literature  of  the 
age  to  the  spirit  and  life  of  a thorough  piety  (compare 
llauff \ ItrUjc  d.  Werth  der  schriftl.  Rel.-Urkunel.  betref- 
fend,  i,  91  sq. ; Sartorius,  Cur  Chris/us  scripti  nihil  re- 
liquerit,  Lcipz.  1815;  Witting,  Warum  J.mchts  Schriftl. 
hinterluxsen,  Ilsehw.  1822;  Gicsccke,  Warum  hat  J.  C. 
iiber  sich  u.  s.  Relig.  nichis  Schriftl.  hinterlassen,  Liineb. 
1828 ; 15.  Crusius,  liibl.  Theol.  p.  22  sq. ; Neandcr,  p.  150 ; 
comp,  llase,  p.  11).  Jesus  has  been  improperly  entitled 
a Rabbi,  or  high  rank  of  religious  teacher  pan,  p«/5/3(), 
in  the  sense  of  the  Jewish  schools,  as  having  been  thus 
styled  not  only  by  the  populace  (Mark  x.  51 ; John  xx, 
1G),  or  bis  disciples  (John  i,  39, 50 ; iv,  31;  ix.  2;  xi,  8; 
Matt.  xxvi,25,  etc.), but  also  by  Nicodcmus  (John  iii,  2), 
and  even  his  enemies  (vi,  25)  themselves  (Vitringa,  Sy- 
nag.  ret.  p.  700;  Panins,  Leben  Jes.  i,  122  sip ; sec,  on  the 
contrary,  G.  E.  Schmid,  De  promoiione  acad.  Christo  e/us- 
qne  disdpnlis  perperam  tribnta , Lips.  1740).  In  the  time 
of  Jesns  persons  had  no  occasion  to  aspire  to  the  formal- 
ity unearned  honors,  as  in  later  ages  (Neandcr,  p.  50), 
and  Jesus  had  little  sympathy  with  such  an  ostentatious 
spmt  (John  vii,  15).  Sec  Rvmu.  (Additional  litera- 
tnre  may  be  seen  in  Volbeding.  p.  25.)  See  Pkouhet. 

A l he  Jews  expected  miracles  of  the  Messiah  (John 
vu,  31 ; 4 Ksdr.  xiii,  50;  eomp.  Matt,  viii,  17  ; John  xx, 
80  sip;  see  I Sort  hold  t,  Christ  ohgia  Judwor.  p.  1G8  sip), 
as..'1csl!s  lK‘r*°rmcd  (reoara,  tnj/aia,  cvWiutic). 
ihese  all  had  a moral  tendency,  and  aimed  at  beneficent 


results  (on  Matt,  viii,  28  sq.,  s?e  Paulus,  ad  loc.;  Bret- 
schneidcr,  Uandb,  d.  Dogtn.  i,  307  sq. ; llase,  Leben  Jesu, 
p.  134 ; on  Matt,  xxi,  18  sq.,  see  Fleck,  1 ’ ertheid . d.  Chris- 
tenth.  p.  138  sq.),  in  which  respects  they  are  in  strik- 
ing contrast  with  the  silly  thanmaturgy  of  the  apocry- 
phal gospels  (see  Tholuck,  Gluubwurdigk.d.evang,  Gesch. 
p.  40G  sq.),  consisting  mostly  of  raising  the  dead  and 
the  cure  (Mark  vi,  5G)  of  such  maladies  as  had  baffled 
all  scientific  remedies  (insanity,  epilepsy,  palsy,  leprosy, 
blindness,  etc.).  He  asked  no  reward  (comp.  Matt,  x, 
8),  and  performed  no  miracles  to  gratify  curiosity  (Matt. 

xvi,  1 sq. ; Mark  viii,  11  sq.),  or  to  excite  the  astonish- 
ment of  a sensuous  populace;  rather  he  repeatedly'  for- 
bade the  public  report  of  bis  extraordinary  deeds  (Matt, 
ix,  30;  Mark  i,  44;  vii,  3G;  viii,  2G;  Luke  v,  14;  viii, 
5G ; Plitt,  in  the  Dess.  Debopfer , 1850,  p.  890  sq.,  takes 
an  erroneous  view  of  Mark  v,  19,  for  in  verse  20  Jesus 
bids  the  man  relate  his  cure  to  his  relatives  only'),  and 
he  avoided  the  popular  outbursts  of  joy',  which  would 
have  swelled  loudly  at  his  particularly  successful  acliicv- 
ments  (John  v,  18),  only  suffering  these  miracles  to  be 
acknowledged  to  the  honor  of  God  (Luke  viii,  39  sq. ; 

xvii,  IG  sq.).  In  effecting  cures  he  sometimes  made  use 
of  some  means  (Mark  vii,  33;  viii,  23;  John  ix,  G sq. ; 
comp.  Spinoza,  Tract,  theol.  pol.  c.  6,  p.  244,  cd.  Paul.; 

j Med.-henn.  Untersuch.  p.  335  sq. ; Paulus,  Leben  Jesu,  i, 
223),  but  in  general  he  employed  simply'  a word  (Matt, 
viii,  1 sq. ; John  v,  8,  etc.),  even  at  a distance  (Matt, 
viii,  5 sq. ; Luke  vii,  G sq. ; John  iv,  50),  or  merely  a 
touch  of  the  invalid  (Matt,  viii,  3,  15)  or  the  afflicted 
member  (blind  eyes,  Matt,  ix,  29;  xx,  34;  see  Seiler, 
Christ,  an  in  operibus  mirabilib.  arcanis  usus  sit  remediis, 
Erlang.  1795;  also,  Jesus  an  miraculu  suis  ipsius  viribus 
ediderit,  ib.  1799);  on  the  other  hand,  likewise,  a cure 
was  experienced  when  the  infirm  touched  his  garment 
(Matt,  ix,  20  sq. ; xiv,  3G),  but  in  such  a case  always  on 
the  presumption  of  a firm  faith  (Matt,  ix,  28;  compare 
John  v,  6),  so  that  when  this  failed  the  miraculous 
power  was  not  exercised  (Matt,  xiii,  58;  Mark  xi,  5). 
On  this  very  account  some  moderns  have  asserted  (Guts- 
rnuth,  Diss.de  Christo  Med.  Jen.  1812  [on  the  opposite, 
Ammon’s  Theolog.  Journ.  i,  177  sq.];  Enncmoser,  Mag- 
net ism.  p.  473  sq. ; Kieser,  Sgst.  des  Tellurism.  ii,  502  sq. ; 
Meyer,  Nuturuntdogien  od.  die  Erschein.  d.  anim.  Mag- 
net. mil  JJins.  auf  Theol.  Ilarab.  1839;  comp.  Wcisse,  i, 
349  sq.)  that  these  cures  were  principally  effected  by 
Jesus  through  the  agency'  of  animal  magnetism  (comp. 
Luke  viii,  48 ; see  generally'  Pfati,  De  Christo  academ. 
X.  T.  medico  primario.  Erlang.  1743;  Schultliess,  in  the 
Xeuest.  theol.  Xachr.  1829,  p.  3G0  sq.).  See  Healing. 
That  the  Jewish  Rabbis  and  the  Essenes  performed,  or 
perhaps  only'  pretended  to  perform,  similar  cures,  at  least 
upon  dicmoniacs,  appears  from  Matt,  xii,  27 ; Luke  xi, 
19;  Mark  ix,  38  sq. ; comp.  Joseplyis,  War,  ii, 8,6;  Ant. 
viii,  2,  5).  The  sentiments  of  Jesus  himself  as  to  the 
value  and  tendency  of  his  miracles  are  undeniable:  he 
disapproved  that  eagerness  for  wonders  displayed  by  his 
contemporaries  (Matt,  xvi,  1 ; John  ii,  18)  which  sprung 
from  sensuous  curiosity  or  from  pure  malevolence  (Matt, 
xii,  39;  xvi,  4;  Mark  viii,  11  sq.),  or  else  had  a thank- 
less regard  merely  to  their  own  advantage  (John  iv,  48; 
vi,  24),  but  which  ever  desired  miracles  merely  as  such, 
while  he  regarded  them  as  a national  method  for  at- 
taining his  purpose  of  awakening  and  calling  forth  faith 
(John  xi,  42;  comp.  Matt,  xi,  4 sq. ; Luke  vii,  21  sq.), 
and  hence  often  lamented  their  ineffectualness  (Matt, 
xi,  20  sq. ; Luke  x,  13;  see  especially  Nitzsch,  Quantum 
Christus  miruculis  tribuerit,  Viteb.  179G;  Schott,  Opusc. 
i,  111  sq. ; Lehiierdt,  De  nonnullis  Chr.  effuiis  unde  ipse 
quid  quanta mq.  tribuerit  miruculis  cognoscetur,  Regiom. 
1833 ; comp.  Paulus,  in  the  Xeu.  theol.  Journ.  ix,  312  sq., 
413  sq. ; Storr,  in  Flatt’s  Magaz.  iv,  178  sq. ; Eiseln,  in 
the  Kirchenbliitter  fiir  das  Bisth.  Rottenburg,\,  1G1  sq. ; 
De  Wette,  Biblisch.  Dogm.  p.  19G  sq. ; Strauss,  Ghiubens - 
lehre,  i,  8G  sq.).  As  ail  undeniably'  effective  means  of 
introducing  Christianity',  these  miracles  have  ever  re- 
tained a profound  significance,  of  which  they  cannot  be 


JESUS  CIIKIST 


883 


JESUS  CIIKIST 


deprived  by  any  efforts  to  explain  them  on  natural  prin-  | 
ciples  (Br.  iib.  Rationulisinus , p.  215  sq.),  or  to  ascribe 
them  to  traditional  exaggeration;  for  all  investigations  1 
of  this  character  have  as  yet  generally  resulted  only  in 
a contorted  exegesis,  and  are  oftentimes  more  difficult  j 
of  belief  than  the  miraculous  incidents  themselves  (see 
on  the  subject  generally  Koster,  Immanuel  Oder  Charact . 
der  neutest.  I Vundererzahlunyen,  Lpz.  1821;  Johannsen,  | 
in  Sclirbter  and  Klein’s  Oppositionschr.  v,  571  sq. ; vi,  31 
sq. ; M idler,  De  mirac.  J.  Ch.  nat.  et  necess.  Marburg  and  , 
llal.  1839 ; Neaiuler,  p.  256  sq.).  See  Miracle. 

10.  Several  of  the  circumstances  of  Christ’s  passion 
(q.  v.)  are  explained  under  Bloody  Sweat,  Cross,  Li- 
thostroton,  Pilate,  Eclipse,  etc.  (compare.  Merillii 
Xotee  in  passion.  J.  Chr.  Par.  1622,  Ercf.  and  Lips.  1740; 
Walt  her,  Jurist.-histor,  Betracht.  iib.  d.  Geschidite  v.  d. 
Leid.  u.  ISterb.  Christ i,  Breslau,  1738,  1774;  Die  Leidens- 
e/esch.  Jesu  exeyetisch  und  archaoloy.  bearbeitet,  Stuttg. 
1809;  Ilug,  in  the  Zeitschr.f.  d.  Erzbisth.  Freibury , v, 

1 sq. ; Eriedlieb,  Archiiol.  d.  Leidensyeseh,  Bonn,  1843). 
The  question  of  the  legality  or  illegality  of  the  sentence 
of  death  pronounced  upon  Jesus  by  the  Sanhedrim  and 
procurator  has  of  late  been  warmly  discussed  (see,  for 
the  former  view,  Salvador,  Ilistoire  des  institutions  de 
Moise,  Bruxel.  1822,  ii,  c.  3 ; also,  Jesus  Christ  et  sa  doc- 
trine, Par.  1838;  llase,  Leben  Jes.  p.  197  sq. ; on  the  op- 
posite, Dupin,  Vaine  Jesus  demnt  Ca'ipht  et  Pilate , Par. 
1829 ; Ammon,  Fortbild.  i,  341  sq. ; B.  Crusius,  Opusc.  p. 
149  sq. ; Neamler,  p.  683  sq. ; comp,  also  Dauiner,  Syst.  I 
der  specul.  Philos,  p.  41  sq. ; and  Ncubig,  1st  J.  wit  roll. 
It  edit  e den  Tod  eines  Yerbrechers  yestorben ? Erl.  1836).  j 
The  Sanhedrim  condemned  Jesus  as  a blasphemer  of 
Cod  (Matt,  xxvi,  65  sq. ; Mark  xiv,  64;  compare  John 
xix,  7),  for  which  the  Law  prescribed  capital  punish- 
ment (Lev.  xxiv,  16);  but  he  would  have  been  guilty 
of  this  crime  if  he  had  falsely  claimed  (Matt,  xxvi,  63 
sq. ; Luke  xxii,  67  sq.)  to  be  the  Messiah  (Son  of  Cod), 
and  the  fact  of  this  profession  was  substantiated  indi- 
rectly by  witnesses  (Matt,  xxvi,  60  sq. ; Mark  xiv,  57 
sq.),  and  directly  by  Jesus’s  own  declaration  (Matt, 
xxvi,  63  sq. ; 31  ark  xiv,  61  sq.).  So  far  the  transaction 
might  seem  to  be  tolerably  regular,  except  that  swear- 
ing the  prisoner  as  to  his  own  crime  is  an  unheard- 
of  process  in  law.  Moreover,  there  was  more  than  a 
single  superficial  examination  of  witnesses  (Matt,  xxvi, 
60),  and  Jesus  had  really  uttered  (John  ii,  19)  what 
the  deponents  averred.  But  that  Jesus  could  not  be 
the  Messiah  was  presupposed  by  the  Sanhedrim  on  the 
ground  of  their  Christological  views ; and  here  were 
they  chiefly  to  blame.  More  exact  inquiries  concern- 
ing the  teachings  and  acts  of  Jesus  would  have  sure- 
ly corrected  their  impression  that  Jesus  was  a blas- 
phemer, and  perhaps  led  them  to  a rectification  of  their 
expectations  respecting  the  Messiah.  Another  point  is 
entitled  to  consideration  in  estimating  their  judicial  ac- 
tion. The  Sanhedrim’s  broader  denunciation  of  Jesus 
before  Pilate  as  a usurper  of  royal  power,  and  their  j 
charging  him  with  treason  ( crimen  lessee  mujestuiis)  | 
(Matt,  xxvii,  1 1 ; Mark  xv,  2 ; Luke  xxiii,  2 ; John  xviii, 
33),  is  explained  by  the  fact  that  the  Messiah  was  to  be 
a theocratic  king,  and  that  the  populace  for  a few  days 
saluted  Jesus  with  huzzas  as  the  Son  of  David  (Matt, 
xxi;  John  xii).  Jesus  certainly  did  not  aspire  to  roy- 
alty in  the  political  sense,  as  he  declared  before  Pilate 
(John  xviii,  36  sq.):  this  the  Sanhedrim,  if  they  bad 
been  dispassionate  judges,  must  have  been  assured  of, 
even  if  they  had  not  previously  inquired  or  ascertained 
how  far  Jesus  was  from  pretensions  to  political  author- 
ity. The  sentence  itself  is  therefore  less  to  be  repro- 
bated than  that  the  high  court  did  not,  as  would  have 
been  worthy  itself,  become  better  informed  respecting 
the  charges;  their  indecorous  haste  evinces  an  eagerness 
to  condemn  the  prisoner  at  all  hazards,  and  their  vindic- 
tive manner  clearly  betrays  their  personal  malice  against 
him.  That  Pilate  passed  and  executed  the  sentence  of 
death  contrary  to  his  better  judgment  as  a civil  officer 
is  beyond  all  doubt.  See  Pilate. 


That  Jesus  passed  through  a merely  apparent  death 
has  been  supposed  by  many  (see  especially  Bahrdt, 
Zwecke,  Jesu,  x,  174  sq. ; Paul  us,  Commeut.  iii,  810  sq., 
and  Leben  Jesu,  I,  ii,  281  sq.;  oil  the  contrary,  see  Hieli- 
ter,  De  morte  Bervatoris  in  cruce , Gbtt.  1757,  also  in  his 
Diss.  4 med.  p.  1 sq. ; Gruner,  De  Jes.  C.  morte  vera , non 
simulata,  Jena,  1805;  Schmidt  maim,  Medic. -philos.  Be- 
weis , dass  J.  uadi  s.  Kreuziyuny  nicht  ron  einer  todtahnl. 
Ohnmacht  befallen  yewesen , Osnabr.  1830).  * The  pierc- 
ing of  the  side  of  Jesus  by  the  lance  of  a lloman  soldier 
(John  xix,  34;  his  name  is  traditionally  given  as  Lonyi- 
nus,  see  Thilo,  Apocr.  p.  586)  has  been  regarded  as  the 
chief  circumstance  upon  which  everything  here  depends 
(Trillcr,  De  mirando  laieris  cordisque  Christi  rulnere,  in 
Gruner's  Tract,  de  deemoniucis,  Jena,  1775 ; Eschenbacli, 
Bcripta  med.-bibl.  p.  82  sq. ; Bartholini,  De  latere  Christi 
aperto,  Lngd.  Bat.  1646),  inasmuch  as  before  this  punc- 
ture the  above  cited  physicians  assume  but  a torpor  and 
siruon,  which  might  seem  the  more  probable  because 
crucifixion  could  hardly  have  caused  death  in  so  short  a 
time  (Mark  xv,  44).  See  Crucify.  But  the  account 
of  the  wound  in  the  side  is  not  such  as  to  allow  the 
question  to  be  by  that  means  fully  and  absolutely  de- 
termined (see  Brief e iiber  Rational  ism  us,  p.236  sq.),  since 
the  evangelist  does  not  state  which  side  (TrXevpei)  was 
pierced,  nor  where,  nor  how  deeply.  It  is  therefore  sure- 
ly a precarious  argument  to  presume  the  left  side  (al- 
though the  position  of  the  soldier,  holding  the  spear  in 
I his  right  hand  and  thrusting  it  opposite  him,  would 
strongly  countenance  this  supposition),  and  equally  so 
j to  assume  a very  deep  incision,  penetrating  the  pericar- 
dium and  heart,  thus  changing  a swoon  into  actual 
death;  nevertheless,  comp.  John  xx,25,  26,  in  favor  of 
this  last  particular.  The  purpose  of  the  stab — to  ascer- 
tain whether  the  crucified  person  was  still  alive — also 
demanded  a forcible  thrust,  and  the  issue  of  blood  and 
water  vouched  for  by  the  evangelist  (iUiXStv  tvBi<c 
aqua  Kai  vCtop,  perhaps  a liendiadys  for  bloody  water) 
would  certainly  point  to  real  death  as  immediately  re- 
sulting. By  this  we  must  understand  the  clotted  blood 
( cruor ) in  connection  with  the  watery  portion  ( serum ), 
which  both  flow  together  from  punctures  of  the  larger 
blood-vessels  (etuis)  of  bodies  just  dead  (from  the  arte- 
ries of  the  hreast,  as  supposed  by  llase  [/.eft.  Jesu,  2d  ed. 
p.  193],  no  blood  would  issue,  for  these  are  usually  empty 
in  a corpse),  and  the  piercing  of  the  side  would  therefore 
not  cause,  but  only  indicate  death.  .See  Blood  and 
Water.  In  fine,  the  express  assertion  of  the  evangel- 
ists, that  Jesus  breathed  his  last  (i^tTrvtvae  [Mark  xv, 
37 ; Luke  xxiii,  46],  a term  exactly  equivalent  to  the 
Latin  expiruril,  he  expired,  and  so  doubtless  to  be  under- 
stood in  its  common  acceptance  of  death),  admits  no  oth- 
er hypothesis  than  that  of  actual  and  complete  dissolu- 
tion. See  Agony. 

The  fact  of  the  return  of  Jesus  alive  from  the  grave 
(comp.  Ammon,  De  vera  J.  C.  reririscentia,  Erlang.  1808 ; 

! Gricsbach,  De  fvntib.  male  Eranyel.  suns  de  resit rrectione 
Domini  narraiimes  hauserint.  Jena,  1783;  Friedrich,  in 
Eiehhorn’s  Biblioth.  vii,  204  sq. ; Diiderl.  De  J.  C.  in  vit. 
reditu,  LTtr.  1841)  is  not  invalidated  by  Strauss’s  ingeni- 
ous hypotheses  (ii,  645;  see  llase,  p.  212;  Theile,  p.  105 
sq. ; comp.  Kuhn,  \Yie  yiny  Ch.durch  des  Grabes  Thiir, 
Strals.  1838) ; but  if  Jesus  had  been  merely  dead  in  ap- 
pearance, so  delicate  a constitution,  already  exhausted 
by  sufferings  before  crucifixion,  would  certainly  not  have 
revived  Without  special  — that  is,  medical — assistance 
(Neamler,  p.  708)  : in  the  cold  rock-vault,  in  an  atmo- 
sphere loaded  with  the  odor  of  aromatics,  bound  hand 
and  foot  with  grave-clothes,  in  utter  prostration,  he 
would,  in  the  ordinary  course  of  things,  have  rather 
been  killed  than  resuscitated.  His  return  to  life  must 
therefore  be  regarded  as  a true  miracle.  See  Besur- 
rection.  On  the  grave  of  Jesus,  see  Golgotha. 

After  he  had  risen  (he  lav  some  thirty-six  hours  in 
the  grave ; not  three  full  days,  as  asserted  by  St  yffarth, 
Summary  ofChronol.  Discor.  X.  Y.  1857,  p.  188\  he  first 
showed  himself  to  Mary  Magdalene  (Matt,  xxviii.  9; 


884 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST 


Mark  xvi,  9;  John  xx,  14;  but  about  the  same  hour  to 
the  other  women,  see  Strong's  Greek  Harmony,  p.3G4), 
then  to  his  apostles  in  various  places  in  and  about  Jeru- 
salem (Luke  xxiv,  13  sq.,  3G  sq.;  John  xx,  19  sq.),and 
was  recognised  by  them— not  immediately,  it  is  true  (for 
the  few  past  days  of  suffering  may  have  considerably 
disfigured  him  bodily),  but  yet  unequivocally— as  their 
crucified  teacher  (Xeander,  p.715  sq.),  and  even  handled, 
although  with  some  reserve  (Luke  xxiv,  37;  John  xxi, 
12).  He  did  not  appear  in  public;  had  he  done  so, his 
enemies  would  have  found  opportunity  to  remove  him 
a second  time  out  of  the  way,  or  to  represent  him  to  the 
people  as  a sham  Jesus:  his  resurrection  could  have  its 
true  significance  to  his  believers  only  (see  generally 
Jahu,  Xachtraye,  p.  1 sq.).  After  a stay  of  40  days,  he 
was  visibly  carried  up  into  the  sky  before  the  eyes  ol 
his  disciples  (Luke  xxiv,  51 ; Acts  i,  9.  Mark  xvi,  19,  is 
of  doubtful  authenticity).  Of  this,  three  evangelical 
witnesses  (Matthew,  Mark,  and  John)  relate  nothing 
(for  very  improbable  reasons  of  this,  see  Flatt’s  Mayaz. 
viii,  55  sq.),  although  the  last  implies  it  in  the  words  of 
Jesus,  I ascend  to  my  Father,”  and  closes  his  Gospel 
with  the  last  interview  of  Jesus  in  Galilee,  at  the  Sea  of 
Tiberias  (John  xxi;  compare  Matt,  xxviii,  1G).  The 
apostles,  in  the  doctrinal  expositions,  occasionally  allude 
to  this  ascension  (andXt/ipic)  of Jesus  (Aetsiii,  21;  1 Tim. 
iii,  1(»;.  llev.  xii,  5),  and  often  speak  (Acts  ii,  33 ; v,  31 ; 
vii,  55, 5G;  Horn,  viii,  34;  Eph.  i,  20;  Col.  iii,  1)  of  Christ 
as  seated  at  the  right  hand  of  God  (see  Griesbaeh,  Syl- 
loye  locor.  X.  T.  ad  adscen s.  Christi  in  cal.  spectantinm, 
Jena,  1793;  also  in  his  Opuscnl.  ii,  471  sq.;  II.  Crusius, 
liihl.  Theol.  p.  400).  Over  the  final  disposal  of  the  body 
of  Christ  after  its  ascension  from  the  earth,  an  impene- 
trable veil  must  ever  rest.  The  account  of  the  ascen- 
sion (see  tit ud.  nnd  Krit.  1841,  iii,  597  sq.)  is  still  treated 
by  many  of  the  critical  theologians  (comp.  Amnion,  .4a- 
censns  J.  C.  in  cal,  histor.  Bib/.  Gutting.  1300,  .also  in  his 
A’ or.  opusc.  theol. ; Horst,  in  Horn’s  Gbttiny.  J I use  am  f. 
Theol.  I,  ii,  3 sq. ; Ur.  iiber  Rational,  p.  233  sq. ; Strauss, 
ii,  G72  sq. ; Hase,  p.  220)  as  one  of  the  myths  (moulded 
on  the  well-known  O.-T.  examples,  Gen.  v,  24 ; 2 Kings 
ii,  11,  and  serving  as  a basis  of  the  expectation  of  his 
visible  return  from  heaven,  Acts  i,  1 1 ; for,  that  the  Jews 
of  that  day  believed  in  an  ascension  of  the  Messiah  to 
heaven  [comp.  John  vi,C2],  appears  from  the  book  Za- 
har [Schottgen,  Jlorce  Ilebr.  ii,  59G]  : the  comparisons 
with  heathen  apotheoses  are  not  in  point  [B.  Hasse,  llis- 
toriie  de  ('hr.  in  viturn  et  cal.  redcunte  ex  narrut.  Lie.  de 
Iloinulo  illnst  ratio,  Begiom.  1305 ; Gfrbrer,  Urchristenth. 
I,  ii,  374  sip],  and  the  theories  of  Bauer  in  Flatt’s  May. 
xvi,  173  sip,  .Seiler,  Weichert,  and  Himly  [see  Bret- 
schneidcr,  Syst.  Knticickel.  p.589;  Otterbein,  I)e  adscen- 
sione  in  calum  udspectubili  rnodo  facta , Duisb.  1802;  or 
Fogtmann,  Comm,  de  in  calum  aclscensit,  Havn.  182G]  are 
as  little  to  the  purpose)  that  originated  among  the  Chris- 
tians, or  were  even  invented  by  the  apostles  (Gram berg, 
Reliyionmd.  ii,  461)  — a view*  that  is  forbidden  by  the 
close  proximity  of  the  incident  in  point  of  time  (London 
[ \\  cslovau  ] Review,  July,  18GI).  It  can,  therefore,  only 
be  regarded  as  a preternatural  occurrence  (Xeander,  p. 
72G).  See  Ascension. 

11.  Respecting  the  personal  appearance  of  Jesus  we 
know  nothing  with  certainty.  According  to  Eusebius 
(Hist.  Lccl.  vii,  18),  the  woman  who  was  cured  of  her 
hemorrhage  (Matt,  ix,  20)  had  erected  from  thankful- 
ness a brazen  statue  (see  llasyei  Uissertat.  syfioye,  p.314 
sip;  comj).  Ileinichen,  L'xc.  10  ad  Rusebius,  iii,  397  sq. ; 
1 lulu,  ( od.  apocr.  i,  5G2  sip)  of  Jesus  at  Pane  as  (Ciesa- 
rea-l’liilippi),  which  was  destroyed  (Sozoin.  J list.  Red. 
v,  21)  at  the  command  of  the  emperor  Julian  (compare 
Niceph.  Hist.  Reel,  vi,  15).  Jesus  himself,  according  to 
several  ancient  (hut  scarcely  trustworthy)  statements 
(Evagr.  iv,  27  ; Nieeph.  ii,  7),  sent  his  likeness  to  Al>- 
garus  (q.  v.)  at  Edessa  (comp.  Bar-llebr.  Chron.  p.  1 18), 
v.  here  was  also  said  to  have  been  found  the  handker- 
c nd  <ii  Christ  with  an  imprint  of  his  countenance  (Ce- 
dreuus,  Hut,  p.  17G ; Bar-Ilebr;eus,  Chron.  p.  163),  Still 


another  figure  of  Jesus  is  also  mentioned  (Xicephorus,  nt 
supr .;  this  credulous  historian  names  the  evangelist 
Luke  as  the  painter  successively  of  Jesus,  Alary,  and 
several  apostles),  and  a certain  Publius  Lentulu.-,  a Ro- 
man officer  (according  to  one  MS.  a proconsul)  is  report- 
ed to  have  composed  a description  of  Christ’s  personal 
appearance,  which  (with  great  variation  of  the  text)  is 
still  exhibited  as  extant  (comp.  Fabricii  Cod.  apocr.  X. 
Test . i,  301  sq. ; Pseudolentuli,  Joa.  Daniasc.  et  Xiceph. 
[Hist.  Eccles.  i,  40]  prosopoyraph.  J.  C.  edit.  Carpzov, 
Helmst.  1774).  This  last,  according  to  the  text  of  Gab- 
ler  (in  Latin),  reads  as  follows;  ‘"A  man  of  tall  stature, 
good  appearance,  and  a venerable  countenance,  such  as 
to  inspire  beholders  both  with  love  and  awe.  His  hair, 
worn  in  a circular  form  and  curled,  rather  dark  and  shin- 
ing, flowing  over  the  shoulders,  and  parted  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  head,  after  the  style  of  the  Nazarenes.  His 
forehead,  smooth  and  perfectly  serene,  with  a face  free 
from  wrinkle  or  spot,  and  beautified  with  a moderate 
ruddiness,  and  a faultless  nose  and  mouth.  His  beard 
full,  of  an  auburn  color  like  his  hair,  not  long,  but  part- 
ed. His  eyes  quick  and  clear.  His  aspect  terrible  in 
rebuke,  placid  and  amiable  in  admonition,  cheerful  with- 
out losing  its  gravity:  a person  never  seen  to  laugh,  but 
often  to  weep,”  etc.  (compare  Xieeph.  i,  40).  (See  Yol- 
beding,  p.  G.)  The  description  given  by  Epiphanius 
(J lonach.  p.  29,  ed.  Dressel)  has  lately  been  discovered 
bv  Tiseliendorf  (Cod.  Ven.  cl.  i,  cod.  3,  No.  12,000)  in  a 
somewhat  different  and  perhaps  more  original  form  (in 
Greek),  as  follows:  ••But  my  Christ  and  God  was  ex- 
ceedingly beautifid  in  countenance.  His  stature  was 
fully  developed,  his  height  being  six  feetv  He  had  au- 
burn hair,  quite  abundant,  and  flowing  down  mostly 
over  his  whole  person.  His  eyebrows  were  black,  and 
not  highly  arched ; his  eyes  brown,  and  bright.  He 
had  a family  likeness,  in  his  tine  eyes,  prominent  nose, 
and  good  color,  to  his  ancestor  David,  who  is  said  to 
have  had  beautifid  eyes  and  a ruddy  complexion.  He 
wore  his  hair  long,  for  a razor  never  touched  it;  nor 
was  it  cut  by  any  person,  except  by  his  mother  in  his 
childhood.  11  is  neck  inclined  forward  a little,  so  that 
the  posture  of  his  body  was  not  too  upright  or  stiff.  Ills 
face  was  full,  but  not  quite  so  round  as  his  mother’s; 
tinged  with  sufficient  color  to  make  it  handsome  and 
natural;  mild  in  expression,  like  the  blandness  in  the 
above  description  of  his  mother,  whose  features  his  own 
strongly  resembled.”  This  production  bears  evident 
marks  of  being  a later  fabrication  (see  Galiler,  2 Proyr. 
in  anthentiam  epist.  Lentuli,  etc.,  Jen.  1819,  1822;  also  in 
his  Opusc.  ii,  G38  sq.).  There  is  still  another  notice  of 
a similar  kind  (see  the  Jen.  IJt.-Zcit . 1821,  sheet  40), 
and  also  an  account  of  the  figure  of  Jesus,  which  the 
emperor  Alexander  Severus  is  said  to  have  had  in  his 
lurarium  or  household  shrine  (see  Zeibieh  in  the  Xov. 
Miscell.  Lips,  iii,  42  sq.).  See  Christ,  Images  of. 

From  the  New  Test,  the  following  particulars  only 
may  he  gathered:  Jesus  was  free  from  bodily  defects 
(for  so  much  is  implied  in  the  type  of  an  unblemished 
victim  under  the  law,  and  otherwise  the  people  would 
not  have  recognised  in  him  a prophet,  while  the  Phari- 
sees would  have  been  sure  to  throw  any  phvsieal  defor- 
mity in  his  teeth),  but  his  exterior  could  have  presented 
nothing  remarkable,  since  Mary  Magdalene  mistook  him 
for  the  gardener  (John  xx,  15),  and  the  two  disciples 
on  the  way  to  Emmaus  (Luke  xxiv,  1G),  as  well  as  the 
apostles  at  his  last  appearance  bjr  the  Sea  of  Gennesareth 
(John  xxi,  4 sq.),  did  not  at  first  recognise  him ; blit  his 
form  then  probably  bore  many  permanent  marks  of  his 
severe  sufferings.  The  whole  evangelical  narrative  in- 
dicates sound  and  vigorous  bodily  health.  In  look  and 
voice  he  must  have  had  something  wonderful  (John 
xviii,  G),  but  at  the  same  time  engaging  and  benevolent: 
his  outward  air  was  the  expression  of  the  high,  noble, 
and  free  spirit  dwelling  within  him.  The  assertions  of 
the  Church  fathers  (Clem.  Alex.  Pceelay.  iii,  92;  Strom. 
vi,  93 ; Origen.  Cels,  vi,  327,  ed.  Spenc.)  that  Christ  had 
an  unprepossessing  appearance  are  of  no  authority,  being 


JESUS  CHRIST 


885 


JESUS  CHRIST 


evidently  conformed  to  Isa.  liii  (but  see  Piiartii  Assertio 
de  sinyulari  J.  Ch.  piilchrituiline,  Par.  1651;  see  gener- 
ally, in  addition  to  the  above  authorities,  F.Vavassor, 
De  forma  Christi,  Paris,  1649;  on  the  portraits  of  .leans, 
Reiske,  De  imayinibus  Christi , Jena,  1685;  Jablonsky, 
Op  use.  edit.  Te  Water,  iii,  377 ; Junker,  Ueber  Christus- 
kopfe,  in  Mcusel’s  Miscelf.  artist.  Ink.  pt.  25,  p.  28  sq. ; 
Ammon,  Ueb.  Christ uskopfe,  in  bis  Mayaziti.f  christi. 
J'red.  I,  ii,  315  sq. ; Tholuck,  Literar.  Anzeiy.  1834,  No. 
71;  Grimm,  Die  Saye  ibid  Urspruny  der  Christusbililer, 
Berl.  1843  ; Mrs.  Jameson,  Hist,  of  our  Lord  exemplified 
in  Works  of  Art  [Loud.  1865]).  (See  further  in  Yol- 
beding,  p.  19 ; Ilase,  p.  65 ; Meth.  Quart.  Rev.  Oct.  1862, 
p.  679.) 

12.  It  might  be  an  interesting  question,  had  we  the 
means  of  accurately  determining,  how  and  by  what  in- 
strumentalities Jesus,  in  a human  point  of  view,  attained 
his  spiritual  power,  or  to  what  influence  (aside  from  di- 
vine inspiration)  he  owed  his  intellectual  formation  as 
a founder  of  religion  (Ammon,  Bibl.  Theoloy.  i,  234  sq. ; 
llundbuch  der  christi.  Sittenlehre,  i,  43  sq. ; Kaiser,  Bibl. 
Theoloy.  i,  234  sq. ; De  Wette,  Bibl.  Doym.  p.  185  sq. ; 
Colin,  Bibl.  Theoloy.  ii,  8 sq. ; Hase,  p.  56  sq. ; compare 
Kail,  De  momentis  iis  quee  ad  Jes.  dirinar.  rerum  scientia 
imbuenditm  viri  habuisse , videuntur,  Erlang.  1796;  Grei- 
ling,  Leben  Jesit , p.  58  sq. ; Planck,  i,  23  sq. ; Briefe  iiber 
Rational,  p.  154  scp).  But  while  there  has  evidently 
been  on  the  one  side  a general  tendency  to  exaggerate 
the  difficulties  which  the  natural  improvement  of  Jesus 
had  to  overcome  (Reinhard,  Plan  Jesit,  p.  485  sq.),  yet 
none  of  the  hypotheses  proposed  for  the  solution  of  the 
question  has  satisfied  the  conditions  of  the  problem,  or 
been  free  from  clear  historical  difficulties.  Many,  for 
instance,  suppose  that  Jesus  had  his  religious  education 
in  the  order  of  the  Essencs  (q.  v.),  and  they  think  that 
in  the  Christian  morals  they  especially  find  many  points 
of  coincidence  with  the  doctrines  of  that  Jewish  sect 
(Rcim,  Christus  unddie  Yernunf.  p.  668  sq. ; Stiiiullein, 
Geseh.  d.  Sittenlehre  Jesit,  i,  570  sq. ; see,  on  the  contrary, 
Liidenvald,  in  Henke’s  Mayaz.  iv,  378  sq. ; Bengcl,  in 
Platt’s  Mayaz.  vii,  126  sq. ; J.  II.  Dorfmiiller,  De  dispari 
Jesit  Essteorumqite  disciplinary 1803 ; Wegncrn, 
in  Illgcn’s  Zeitschr.  1841,  pt.  2 ; comp.  Heubner,  5th  Ap- 
pend. to  his  edit,  of  Rcinhard’s  Plan  Jesit).  Others  at- 
tribute the  culture  of  Jesus  to  the  Alcxandrio-Jewish 
religious  philosophy  (Balirdt,  Briefe.  iiber  die  Bibcl  im 
Yolkston,  i,  376  sq.;  Gfrorer,  in  the  Gesch.  des  Urchris- 
tenth.X  Still  others  imagine  that  Sadducafism  [see  Sad- 
dl'cee]  , or  a comparison  of  this  with  Pharisaism  [see 
Pharisee],  was  the  source  of  the  pure  religious  views 
of  Jesus  (Ilenke,  Mayaz.  v,  426  sq. ; Des  Cotes,  Schutz- 
schr.  fur  Jesus  von  Nazareth,  p.  128  sq.).  Although 
single  points  in  the  teaching  and  acts  of  Jesus  might  be 
illustrated  by  each  of  these  theories  (as  could  not  fail  to 
be  the  case  with  respect  to  one  who  threw  himself  into 
the  midst  of  the  religious  efforts  of  the  age,  and  com- 
bined efficiency  with  right  aims),  yet  the  whole  of  his 
spiritual  life  and  deeds,  the  high  dearness  of  under- 
standing, the  purity  of  sentiment,  and,  above  all,  the 
independence  of  spirit  and  matchless  moral  power  which 
stamp  each  particular  with  a significance  that  was  his 
alone,  cannot  be  thus  explained  (Thomson,  Land  and 
Book,  ii,  86  sq.).  A richly-endowed  and  profound  mind 
is,  moreover,  presupposed  in  all  such  hypotheses  (comp, 
Paulus,  Leb.  Jesu,  i,  89).  Our  object  is  simply  to  inves- 
tigate the  influences  that  aroused  these  spiritual  facul- 
ties, unfolded  them,  and  directed  them  in  that  path. 
And  in  determining  these,  it  is  clear  at  the  outset  that 
a powerful  impulse  must  have  been  given  to  the  natural 
development  of  Jesus's  mind  (Luke  ii,  52)  by  a diligent 
study  of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  especially  in  the  prophet- 
ical books  (Isaiah  and  the  I’salms,  Paulus,  Leben  Jesu,  i, 
119  sq.),  which  contained  the  germs  of  an  improved 
monotheism,  and  are,  for  the  most  part,  free  from  Jew- 
ish niceties.  He  would  also  derive  assistance  from  a 
comparison  of  the  Pharisaical  statutes,  which  were  un- 
questionably known  to  Jesus,  and  particularly  of  the 


Jewish  Hellenism  (Alexandrianism  ; sec  Alexandrian 
School),  with  those  simple  doctrines  of  the  old  Mosa- 
ism,  especially  as  spiritualized  by  the  prophets.  How 
much  may  have  been  derived  from  outward  circum- 
stances we  do  not  know;  that  the  maternal  training, 
and  even  the  open  (Luke  iv,  29)  and  romantic  situation 
of  Nazareth,  had  a beneficial  influence  in  unfolding  and 
cultivating  his  mind  (Greiling,  Leb.  Jesu,  p.  48),  scarcely 
admits  a doubt,  nor  that  the  neighborhood  of  Gentile 
inhabitants  in  the  entire  vicinity  might  have  already 
weakened  and  repressed  in  the  youthful  soul  of  Jesus 
the  old  Jewish  narrow-mindedness.  The  age  also  af- 
forded a crisis  for  bringing  out  and  determining  the 
bent  of  his  genius.  Learned  instruction  (see  No.  -6 
above)  Jesus  had  not  enjoyed  (Matt,  xiii,  54  sq. ; John 
vii,  15),  although  the  Jewish  fables  ( Toledoth  Jesu , p. 
5)  assign  him  a youthful  teacher  named  Elhanan 
("jinbx),  and  Christian  tradition  (/ listona  Josepln,  c. 
48  sq.)  attributes  to  him  wonderful  aptness  in  learning 
(see  generally  Paulus,  Leben  Jesu,  i,  121  sq.).  In  addi- 
tion to  all  these  natural  infiuenees  operating  upon  his 
human  spirit,  there  Avas,  above  all,  the  plenary  inspira- 
tion (John  iii,  34)  Avhich  he  enjoyed  from  the  intercom- 
munication of  the  divine  nature;  for  the  bare  facts  of 
his  career,  even  on  the  lowest  view  that  can  be  taken 
of  the  documents  attesting  these,  are  incapable  of  a ra- 
tional explanation  on  the  ground  of  his  mere  humanity 
(sec  J.  Young,  Christ  of  History,  Lond.  1855,  N.  Y.  1857). 
See  Christ.  (For  additional  literature,  see  Volbcding, 
p.  36  sq.)  His  prediction  of  future  events  Avould  not  of 
itself  be  an  evidence  of  a higher  character  than  that  of 
other  prophets.  See  Prophecy. 

13.  Respecting  the  enterprise  on  behalf  of  mankind 
Avhich  Jesus  had  conceded,  and  Avhich  he  undeviating- 
ly  kept  in  view  (see  especially  Reinhard,! "ersuch.ub.d. 
Plan  den  der  St  if  ter  der  chr.  Rel.  zum  Besten  der  Mensch. 
entvearf  5th  edit,  by  Heubner,  Wittemb.  1830  [compare 
the  Nates  theol.  Jonrn.  xiv,  24  sq.] ; 1 < rZiceck  Jesu  ye~ 
sehichtl.  u.  seelkundl.  duryestellt,  Leipz.  1816 ; Planck,  i,  7 
sq.,  86  sq. ; Greiling.  p.  120  sq. ; Strauss,  i,  463  sq. ; Ne- 
ander,  p.  115  sq. ; Weisse,  i,  117  sq.),  a few  obsen’ations 
only  can  here  be  indulged.  See  Redemption.  That 
Jesus  sought  not  simply  to  be  a reformer  of  Judaism 
(John  iv,  22;  Matt,  xv,  24;  compare  Matt.  A',  17)  [see 
Laav],  much  less  the  founder  of  a secret  association 
(Klotzsch,  De  Christo  ab  instituendu  societate  elamkstina 
alieno,  Viteb.  1786),  but  to  unite  all  mankind  in  one 
great  sacred  family,  is  vouched  for  by  his  own  declara- 
tions (John  iv,  23;  x,  16),  by  the  Avholc  tendency  of  his 
teaching,  by  his  constant  expression  of  the  deepest  sym- 
pathy Avith  humanity  in  general,  and  finally  by  the  se- 
lection of  the  apostles  to  continue  his  Avork ; only  he 
Avislied  to  confine  himself  personally  to  the  boundaries 
of  Judiea  in  the  publication  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
(Matt.  x\r,  24),  Avhereas  his  disciples,  led  by  the  Holy 
Spirit,  should  eventually  traverse  the  Avorld  as  heralds 
of  the  truth  (Matt,  xxviii,  19  sq.).  It  is  evident  that 
to  Jesus  himself  the  outline  of  his  design  Avas  ahvays 
clearly  defined  in  the  course  of  his  labors,  but,  on  ac- 
count of  the  dogmatic  conformity  of  the  delineations  in 
John’s  Gospel,  and  the  loose,  unchronological  deA’clop- 
rnent  of  it  in  the  synoptical  gospels,  it  is  impossible  ac- 
curately to  sIioav  historically  the  gradual  realization  of 
this  subjccth’e  scheme.  But  that  Jesus  at  any  moment 
of  his  life  AvhateA'er  had  stated  the  political  element  of 
the  theocracy  as  being  blended  Avith  his  spiritual  emol- 
uments (Ilase,  Leb.  Jesu,  p.  86  sq.,  2d  edit.)  is  an  umvar- 
rantable  position  (comp.  Heubner,  in  Reinhard,  ut  sup. 
p.  394  sq. ; Liicke,  Pr.  examinatur  sententia  de  mutato 
per  event  a adeoque  sensitn  emendato  Christi  consilio,  Gott, 
1831 ; Neander,  p.  121  scp).  The  reason  Avhy  he  did  not 
directly  announce  himself  to  the  popidar  masses  as  the 
expected  Messiah  (indeed,  ne  CA’en  eA'aded  the  question, 
Luke  xx,  1 sq.,  and  forbade  the  spread  of  this  report, 


ticipations  from  the  true  idea  of  the  Messiah  (q.  x.).  He 


886 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST 


strove,  therefore,  on  even’  occasion  to  set  this  idea  itself 
in  a right  position  before  them,  and  occasionally  sug- 
gested the  identification  of  his  person  with  the  Messiah, 
partly  bv  the  epithet  " Son  of  Man,”  which  he  applied 
to  himself  (see  especially  Matt.  xii,  8),  partly  by  explic- 
it statements  (Matt,  xiii,  16  sq.;  Luke  iv,  21).  Hence 
it  is  not  surprising  that  the  opinion  of  the  people  re- 
specting him  declined,  and  the  majority  regarded  him 
onlv  as  a great  prophet,  chiefly  interesting  for  his  won- 
der-working. lie  decidedly  announced  himself  as  the 
Messiah  only  to  individual  susceptible  hearts  (John  iv, 
26 ; ix,  36  sq.),  and  also  to  the  high-priest  at  the  conclu- 
sion of  his  career  (^Matt.  xxvi,  64).  The  disciples  re- 
quired it  merely  for  the  confirmation  of  the  faith  they 
had  already  attained  (Matt,  xvi,  13  sq. ; Luke  ix,  20). 
See  Kingdom  of  Heaven. 

The  moral  and  religious  character  of  Jesus  (humanly 
considered),  which  even  in  the  synoptical  gospels,  that 
are  certainly  chargeable  with  no  embellishment,  appears 
in  a high  ideality,  has  never  yet  been  depicted  with  ac- 
curate psychological  skill  (see  Volbeding,  p.  35),  but  usu- 
ally as  a model  of  virtue  in  general  (yet  see  Jerusalem, 
Xachyelass.  Schrift,  i,  75  sq. ; Greiling,  p.  9 sq.;  E.  G. 
Winckler,  Vers.  e.  Psychocor/raphie  Jesu , Lpz.  1826 ; Ull- 
mann,  SiimUimyk.  Jes.  p.  35  sq. ; Ammon,  Leb.  Jes.  i,  240 
sq. ; Thiele,  in  the  Darmst.  Kirch.-Zeit.  1844,  No.  92-94). 
(Comp.  1 lase,  p.  62, 64.)  On  the  (choleric)  temperament 
of  Jesus,  see  G.  Walch,  De  iemperamento  Christi  hom. 
Jen.  1753.  Deep  humility  before  God  (Luke  xviii,  19), 
and  ardent  love  towards  men  in  view  of  the  determined 
sacrifice  (John  x,  18),  were  the  distinguishing  traits  of 
his  noble  devotion,  while  the  divine  zeal  that  stirred 
his  great  soul  concentrated  all  his  virtues  upon  his  one 
grand  design.  Jesus  appears  as  the  harmonious  com- 
plete embodiment  of  religious  resignation  ; but  this  was 
so  far  from  being  a result  of  innate  weakness  (although 
Jesus  might  have  had  a slender  physical  constitution), 
that  his  natural  force  of  character  subsided  into  it  (for 
examples  ot  high  energy  in  feeling  and  act,  see  John,  ii, 
16  Sq. ; viii,  44  sq.;  Matt,  xvi,  23;  xxiii,  5,  etc.).  Ev- 
erywhere to  this  deep  devotion  was  joined  a clear,  pru- 
dent understanding  — a combination  which  alone  can 
preserve  a man  of  sensibility  and  activity  from  the  dan- 
ger of  becoming  a reckless  enthusiast  or  a weak  senti- 
mentalist. This  is  most  unmistakably  exhibited  in  the 
account  of  his  passion  and  death.  Neither  do  we  find 
in  Jesus  any  trace  ol  the  austerity  and  gloomy  stern- 
ness of  other  founders  of  religion,  or  even  of  his  contem- 
porary the  baptist  (Matt.  xi.  18  sq.).  In  the  midst  of 
eager  listeners  in  the  public  streets  or  in  the  Temple,  he 
spoke  with  the  high  dignity  of  a messenger  of  God; 
yet  how  alL-ctionately  sympathetic  (John  xi,  35),  how 
solicitous,  how  self-sacrificing  did  he  exhibit  himself  in 
the  bosom  of  the  family, in  the  dear  circle  of  his  friends ! 
"What  tender  sympathy  expressed  itsell  in  him  on  every 
occasion  (Lukevii,  13;  Matt,  ix,  36.  xiv,  14,  xxx,34). 
lie  was  both  (compare  Korn,  xii,  15)  tearful  among  the 
tearful  (John  xi,  35),  and  cheerful  among  the  cheerful 
(John  ii.  1 sq.;  Luke  v it. 34).  On  this  very  account  the 
character  of  Jesus  has  at  all  times  so  irresistibly  won 
the  hearts  of  the  good  and  noble  of  all  people,  since  it 
evinces  not  merely  the  rarest  niagnanimitv,  such  n3  to 
cause  amazement,  but  at  the  same" time  the'  purest,  most 
disinterested  humanity,  and  thus  presents  to  the  ob- 
server not  simply  an  object  of  esteem,  but  also  of  love. 
Hie  history  ol  Jesus’s  life  is  equally  interesting  to  the 
child  and  the  full-grown  man,  and  certainly  his  exam- 
ple has  effected  at  all  times  not  less  than  his  precepts 
In  accordance  with  this  unmistakable  sum  of  his  char- 
acter, certain  single  passages  of  the  Gospels  (c.  g.  Matt. 
X11.  46  sq. ; XV',  21  sq. ; John  ii,  4),  which,  verbally  ap- 
prehended [see  Cana],  might  perplex  us  concerning  Ji- 
sus  (comp.,).  F.  Volbeding,  Utrum  Christ  us  mat  nan  yenus- 
que  snum  dissimularerit  ct  despexerit,\ itch.  1781;  K.  j. 
lvlemni,  lie.  necessitudine  J.  Christo  e.  eonsamjuinds  in- 
trreedente,  Lips.  1846),  may  lie  more  correctly  explained 
(see  Ammon,  Leb.Jtsu,  i,  213  sq.),  and  may  be  placed  in 


harmony  with  others  (e.  g.  Luke  ii,  51 ; compare  Lange, 
De  subjectione  Chr.  sub  parentib.  Lips.  1738).  See  En- 
s ample. 

The  task  of  the  world’s  redemption,  acting  as  an 
ever-present  burden  upon  the  Saviour’s  mind,  produced 
that  pensiveness,  not  to  say  sadness,  which  was  a mark- 
ed characteristic  of  all  his  deportment.  Karcly  did  his 
equanimity  rise  to  exuberant  joy,  and  that  only'  in  con- 
nection with  the  great  ruling  object  of  Iris  life  (Luke  x, 
21);  oftener  did  it  experience  dejection  of  spirit  (John 
xii,  27),  at  times  to  the  depths  of  mental  anguish  (Mark 
xiv,  34).  See  Agony.  It  was  this  interior  pressure 
that  so  frequently’  burst  forth  in  sighs  and  tears  (John 
xi,  33;  Luke  xix,  41),  and  made  Jesus  the  ready  sym- 
pathizer with  human  affliction  (John  xi,  35).  It  is  such 
spiritual  and  unselfish  trials  that  ripen  every’  truly'  great 
moral  character,  and  it  was  accordingly  needful  that 
God,  “in  bringing  many’  sons  unto  glory’,  should  make 
the  Captain  of  their  salvation  perfect  through  suffer- 
ings.” The  fact  that  Jesus  was  emphatically  “a  man 
of  sorrows  and  acquainted  with  grief,”  is  the  real  key 
to  the  subdued  and  self-collected  tone  of  liis  entire  de- 
meanor. See  Iyenosis. 

For  an  adequate  explanation  of  the  astonishing  power 
which  our  Saviour  exercised  over  liis  auditors,  and,  in- 
deed, exerted  over  all  who  came  within  his  circle  of  in- 
fluence, we  are  doubtless  to  look  to  two  or  three  facts 
which  have  never  yet  been  exhibited,  at  least  in  con- 
nection, with  such  graphic  portraiture  as  to  make  liis 
life  stand  out  to  the  modern  reader  in  its  true  moral 
grandeur,  force,  and  vividness.  These  elements  are  part- 
ly suggested  in  the  evangelist’s  statement  that  those 
who  first  hung  upon  the  lledeemer’s  lips  found  in  liis 
discourses  a new  and  divine  assurance : “ He  taught 
them  as  one  liaviny  authority,  and  not  as  the  scribes' ' 
(Matt,  vii,  29). 

(1.)  His  doctrines  were  novel  to  his  hearers.  It  was 
not  so  much  because  he  announced  to  them  the  usher- 
ing in  of  a new  dispensation,  for  upon  this  lie  merely 
touched  in  his  introductory  addresses  and  by’ way  of  ar- 
resting their  attention ; all  details  respecting  that  fresh 
sera  which  could  gratify  curiosity',  or  even  awaken  it,  he 
sedulously’ avoided,  and  he  seemed  anxious  to  divert  the 
popular  expectation  from  himself  as  the  central  figure 
in  the  coming  scenes.  It  was  the  spiritual  truths  he 
communicated  that  burned  upon  the  hearts  of  the  list- 
ening populace  with  a strange  intensity.  True,  the  es- 
sential features  of  a religious  life  had  been  illustrated  in 
their  sacred  books  for  centuries  by  holy’  men  of  old,  and 
the  most  vital  doctrines  of  the  Gospel  may’  be  said  to 
have  been  anticipated  in  the  Mosaic  code  and  the  pro- 
phetical comments;  nay, living  examples  were  not  want- 
ing to  confirm  the  substantial  identity  of  religious  ex- 
perience under  whatever  outward  economy’.  Yot,  at  the 
time  of  our  Lord’s  advent,  the  fundamental  principles 
of  sound  piety’  seem  to  have  been  forgotten  or  overlook- 
ed, especially’  by  the  Pharisees,  whose  views  and  prac- 
tices were  regarded  as  the  models  by’  the  nation  at  large. 
When,  therefore,  our  Lord  brought  back  the  popular  at- 
tention to  the  simple  doctrines  of  love  to  God  and  man, 
not  only’  as  lying  at  the  foundation  of  the  O.-T.  ethics, 
but  as  comprising  the  whole  duty  of  man,  the  simplici- 
ty, pertinence,  and  truthfulness  of  the  sentiment  came 
with  an  irresistible  freshness  of  conviction  to  the  minds 
of  the  humblest  hearers.  For  this,  too,  they  had  al- 
ready been  prepared  by’  the  sad  contrast  between  the 
precepts  and  the  conduct  of  the  highest  sectaries  of  the 
day’,  by  the  tedious  burden  of  the  Mosaic  ritual,  and, 
above  all,  by’  the  hitter  yearnings  after  religions  liberty 
in  their  own  souls,  which  the  current  system  of  belief 
failed  to  supply’.  JSi  n yret  lay’  as  a load  of  anguish  upon 
their  hearts,  and  they  eagerly  embraced  the  gentle  in- 
vitations of  the  IJedeemer  to  the  bosom  of  their  offend- 
ed heavenly  Father.  It  was  precisely’  the  resurrection 
of  these  again  obscured  teachings  that  gave  such  power 
to  the  preaching  of  Luther,  Whiteficld,  Wesley’,  Edwards, 
and  others  in  subsequent  times,  and  which  converted 


JESUS  CHRIST 


887 


JESUS  CHRIST 


the  moral  desert  of  their  day  into  a spiritual  Eden.  But 
there  was  this  to  enhance  the  effect  in  the  Saviour’s 
promulgations,  that  they  awakened  the  expectation  of 
a millennial  reign;  an  idea  misconstrued,  indeed,  by 
many  of  the  Jews  into  that  of  a temporal  dominion,  but 
on  that  very  account  productive  of  a more  boundless 
and  extravagant  enthusiasm.  The  national  spirit  was 
roused,  and  Jesus  even  found  it  necessary  to  repress  and 
avoid  the  fanatical  and  disloyal  manifestations  to  which 
it  was  instantly  prone.  Yet  in  those  hearts  which  bet- 
ter understood  “the  kingdom  of  heaven,”  there  arose 
the  dawn  of  that  Sabbatic  day  of  which  the  Pentecostal 
effusion  brought  the  meridian  glory.  (For  the  best  elu- 
cidation of  this  difference  between  Christ’s  and  his  pre- 
decessors’, as  well  as  rivals’  teaching,  see  Sticr’s  Words 
of  Jesus,  passim.) 

(2.)  He  spoke  as  God.  Later  preachers  and  reform- 
ers have  felt  a heroic  boldness,  and  have  realized  a mar- 
velous effect  in  their  utterances,  when  fully  impressed 
with  the  conviction  of  the  divinity  of  their  mission  and 
the  sacred  character  of  their  communications;  but  Jesus 
r.’as  no  mere  ambassador  from  the  court  of  heaven;  he 
was  the  Word  of  the  Lord  himself.  Ancient  prophets 
had  made  their  effata  by  an  inspired  impulse,  and  cor- 
roborated them  by  outward  miracles  that  enforced  re- 
spect, if  they  did  not  command  obedience;  but  Jesus 
possessed  no  restricted  measure  of  the  Spirit,  and  wrought 
wonders  in  no  other’s  name;  in  him  dwelt  all  the  ful- 
ness of  the  Godhead  bodily,  and  the  Shekinah  stood  re- 
vealed in  his  every  act,  look,  and  breath.  “Never  man 
spake  like  this,”  was  the  significant  confession  extorted 
from  his  very  foes,  lie  who  came  from  the  bosom  of 
the  Father  told  but  the  things  he  had  seen  and  known 
when  he  unveiled  eternal  verities  to  men.  His  daily 
demeanor,  too,  under  whatever  exigency,  or  temptation, 
or  provocation,  was  a most  pungent  and  irrefragable 
comment  on  all  lie  said — a faultless  example  reflecting 
a perfect  doctrine.  Unprecedented  as  were  his  mira- 
cles, his  life  itself  was  the  greatest  wonder  of  all.  The 
manner,  it  is  often  truly  observed,  is  quite  as  important 
in  the  public  speaker  as  the  matter;  and,  we  may  add, 
his  personal  associations  with  his  hearers  are  often  more 
influential  with  them  than  either.  In  all  these  partic- 
ulars Christ  has  no  parallel — lie  had  no  defect.  (Sec 
this  argument  admirably  treated  in  Bushnell’s  Nature 
and  the  Supernatural,  chap,  x.) 

(0.)  The  author  of  Kcce  Homo  (a  work  which  admira- 
bly illustrates  the  human  side  of  Christ  and  his  religion, 
although  it  lamentably  ignores  the  d trine  element,  in 
both)  forcibly  points  (chap,  v)  to  the  faet  that  the  bare 
miracles  of  Jesus,  although  they  were  so  public  and  so 
stupendous  as  to  compel  the  credit  and  awe  of  all,  were 
in  themselves  not  sufficient  to  command  even  reverence, 
much  less  a loving  trust;  nay,  that,  had  they  been  too 
freely  used,  they  were  even  calculated  to  repel  men  in 
affright  (comp.  Luke  v,  8)  and  consternation  (sec  Luke 
viit,  37).  It  was  the  self-restraint  which  the  Possessor 
of  divine  power  evidently  imposed  upon  himself  in  this 
respect,  and  especially  his  persistent  refusal  to  employ 
his  supernatural  gift  either  for  his  own  personal  relief 
and  comfort,  or  for  the  direct  promotion  of  his  kingdom 
by  way  of  a violent  assault  upon  hostile  powers,  that 
intensified  the  astonished  regard  of  his  followers  to  the 
utmost  pitch  of  devoted  veneration.  This  penetrating 
sense  of  attachment  to  one  to  whom  they  owed  every- 
thing, and  who  seemed  to  be  independent  of  their  aid, 
and  even  indifferent  to  his  own  protection  while  serving 
others,  culminated  at  the  final  tragedy,  which  achieved 
a world’s  redemption  at  bis  own  expense.  “It  was  the 
combination  of  greatness  and  self-sacrifice  which  won 
their  hearts,  the  mighty  powers  held  under  a mighty 
control,  the  unspeakable  condescension,  the  Cross  of 
Christ ” (p.  57) — a topic  that  ever  called  forth  the  full 
enthusiasm  of  Paul’s  heart,  and  that  fired  it  with  a he- 
roic zeal  to  emulate  his  Master. 

III.  Narrative  of  our  Saviour's  Life  and  Ministry. — 
(For  the  further  literature  of  each  topic,  see  the  articles 


referred  to  at  each.)  See  Gospels.  About  four  hun- 
dred years  had  elapsed  since  Malaclii,  the  last  of  the 
prophets,  had  foretold  the  coming  of  the  Messiah’s  fore- 
runner, and  nearly  the  same  interval  had  transpired 
since  Ezra  closed  the  sacred  canon,  and  composed  the 
concluding  psalm  (cxix) ; a still  greater  number  of  years 
ha<!  intervened  since  the  latest  miracle  of  the  Old  Test, 
had  been  performed,  and  men  not  only  in  Palestine,  but 
throughout  the  entire  East,  were  in  general  expectation 
of  the  advent  of  the  universal  Prince  (Suetonius,  Vesp. 
4;  Tacitus,  Hist,  v,  13) — an  event  which  the  Jews  knew, 
from  their  Scriptures  (Dan.  ix,  25),  was  now  close  at 
hand  (see  Luke  ii,  211,  38).  Sec  An  vent.  It  w'as  un- 
der such  circumstances,  at  a time  when  the  lfoman  em- 
pire, of  which  Judaea  then  formed  a part,  was  in  a state 
of  profound  and  universal  peace  (Orosius,  Hist.  vi,^?>.). 
under  the  rule  of  Augustus  (Luke  ii,  1),  that  an  incident 
occurred  which,  although  apparently  personal  and  incon- 
siderable, broke  like  a new  oracle  the  silence  of  ages 
(comp.  2 Pet.  iii,  4),  and  proved  the  dawn  of  the  long- 
looked-for  day  of  Israel’s  glory  (sec  Luke  i,  78).  A priest 
named  Zacliariah  was  performing  the  regular  functions 
of  his  office  within  the  holy  place  of  the  Temple  at  Je- 
rusalem, when  an  angel  appeared  to  him  with  the  an- 
nouncement that  his  hitherto  childless  and  now  aged 
wife,  Elisabeth,  should  bear  him  a son,  who  was  to  be 
the  harbinger  of  the  promised  Bcueemer  (Luke  i,  5—25). 
Sec  Zaohaiuas.  To  punish  and  at  the  same  time  re- 
move his  doubts,  the  power  of  articidate  utterance  was 
miraculously  taken  from  him  until  the  verification  of 
the  prediction  (probably  May,  B.C.  7).  See  John  the 
Baptist.  Nearly  half  a year  after  this  vision,  a still 
more  remarkable  annunciation  (q.v.)  was  made  by  the 
same  means  to  a maiden  of  the  now  obscure  lineage  of 
David,  resident  at  Nazareth,  and  betrothed  to  Joseph,  a 
descendant  of  the  same  onee-royal  family  [see  Geneal- 
ogy] : namely,  that  she  was  the  individual  selected  to 
become  the  mother  of  the  Messiah  who  had  been  ex- 
pected in  all  previous  ages  (Luke  i,  26-38).  See  M ap.y. 
Her  scruples  having  been  obviated  by  the  assurance  of 
a divine  paternity  [see  Incarnation],  she  acquiesced 
in  the  providence,  although  she  could  not  have  failed  to 
foresee  the  ignominy  to  which  it  would  expose  her  [see 
Adultery],  and  even  joined  her  relative  Elizabeth  in 
praising  God  for  so  high  an  honor  (Luke  i,  39-56).  As 
soon  as  her  condition  became  known  [see  Conc  eption], 
Joseph  was  divinely  apprised,  through  a dream,  of  his 
intended  wife’s  innocence,  and  directed  to  name  her 
child  Jesus  (see  above),  thus  adopting  it  as  his  own 
(Matt,  i,  18-25;  probably  April,  B.C.  6).  See  Joseph. 

Although  the  parents  resided  in  Galilee,  they  had  oc- 
casion just  at  this  time  to  visit  Bethlehem  (q.v.)  in  order 
to  be  enrolled  along  with  their  relatives  in  a census  now 
in  progress  by  order  of  the  Homan  authorities  [see  Cv- 
hexius],  and  thus  Jesus  was  born,  during  their  stay  in 
the  exterior  buildings  of  the  public -khan  [see  Cara- 
vanserai], at  that  plaec  (Luke  ii,  1-7),  in  fulfilment  of 
an  express  prediction  of  Scripture  (Mic.  v,  2),  prob.  Aug. 
B.C.  6.  See  Nativity.  The  auspieious  event  was  her- 
alded on  the  same  night  by  angels  to  a company  of 
shepherds  on  the  adjacent  plains,  and  was  recognised  by 
two  aged  saints  at  Jerusalem  [see  .Simeon;  Anna], where 
the  mother  presented  the  babe  at  the  usual  time  for  the 
customary  offerings  at  the  Temple,  the  rite  of  circumcis- 
ion (q.v.)  having  heen  meanwhile  duly  performed  (Luke 
ii,  8-39 ; prob.  Sept.  B.C.  6).  Public  notice,  however, 
t was  not  attracted  to  the  event  till,  on  the  arrival  at  the 
capital  of  a party  of  Eastern  philosophers  [see  Magi], 
who  had  been  directed  to  Palestine  by  astronomical 
phenomena  as  the  birthplace  of  some  noted  infant  [see 
Star  of  the  Wise  Men],  the  intelligence  of  their  in- 
quiries reached  the  jealous  ears  of  Herod  (q.  v.),  who 
thereupon — first  ascertaining  from  the  assembled  Sanhe- 
drim the  predicted  locality — sent  the  strangers  to  Beth- 
lehem, where  the  holy  family  appear  to  have  continued, 
pretending  that  he  wished  himself  to  do  the  illustrioi  s 
babe  reverence,  but  really  only  to  render  himself  more 


888 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST 


sure  of  his  destruction  (Matt,  ii,  1-12).  This  attempt 
was  foiled  bv  the  return  of  the  Magi  home  by  another 
route,  through  divine  intimation,  and  the  child  was  pre- 
served from  the  murderous  rage  of  Herod  by  a pre- 
cipitous flight  of  the  parents  (who  were  in  like  manner 
warned  of  the  danger)  into  Egypt  [see  Alexandria] 
under  a like  direction  (prob.  July,  B.C.  5).  Here  they 
remained  [see  Egypt]  until,  on  the  death  of  the  tyrant, 
at  the  divine  suggestion,  they  returned  to  Palestine;  but, 
avoiding  Judaea,  where  Archelaus,  who  resembled  his 
father,  had  succeeded  to  the  throne,  tliey.settled  at  their 
former  place  of  residence,  Nazareth,  within  the  territory 
of  the  milder  Antipas  (Matt.ii,  19-23;  prob.  April,  B.C. 
4).  See  Xazarenk.  The  evangelists  pass  over  the  boy- 
hood of  Jesus  with  the  simple  remark  that  his  obedience, 
intelligence,  and  piety  won  the  affections  of  all  who  knew 
him  (Luke  ii,  40,  51,  52).  A single  incident  is  recorded 
in  illustration  of  these  traits,  which  occurred  when  he 
had  completed  his  twelfth  year— an  age  at  which  the 
Jewish  males  were  expected  to  take  upon  them  the  re- 
sponsibility of  attaching  themselves  to  the  public  wor- 
ship, as  having  arrived  at  years  of  discretion  (Luke  ii, 
41-50;  see  Lightfoot  and  Wetstein,  ad  loc.).  Having 
accompanied  his  parents,  on  this  occasion,  to  the  Pass- 
over  at  Jerusalem,  the  lad  tarried  behind  at  the  close  of 
the  festal  week,  and  was  discovered  by  them,  as  they 
turned  back  to  the  capital  from  their  homeward  journey, 
after  considerable  search,  sitting  in  the  midst  of  the  Rab- 
bis in  one  of  the  anterooms  of  the  sacred  edifice,  seek- 
ing information  from  them  on  sacred  themes  (or  proba- 
bly rather  imparting  than  eliciting  truth,  after  the  man- 
ner of  the  Socratic  questionings)  with  a clearness  and  I 
profundity  so  far  beyond  his  years  and  opportunities  as 
to  excite  the  liveliest  astonishment  in  all  beholders 
(April,  A.I).  K).  Ilis  pointed  reply  to  his  mother’s  ex- 
postulation for  his  seeming  neglect  of  filial  duty  evinces 
a comprehension  already  of  his  divine  character  and 
work  : Knew  ye  not  th.it  I must  be  at  my  Father’s?” 
(tv  ruttj  rou  Harp  6 1;  fiov). 

1.  Introductory  Year. — Soon  after  John  the  Baptist 
had  opened  his  remarkable  mission  at  the  Jordan,  among 
the  thousands  of  all  classes  who  flocked  to  his  preaching 
and  baptism  (q.  v.),  Jesus,  then  thirty  years  old,  pre- 
sented himself  for  the  same  initiatory  rite  at  his  hands  ' 
as  the  only  acknowledged  prophet  extant  who  was  em- 
powered to  administer  what  should  be  equivalent  to  the  I 
holy  anointing  oil  of  the  kingly  and  priestly  offices 
(Matt,  iii,  13  17 ; Luke  iii,  1-1K,  23 ; and  parallels).  See  | 
Messiah.  John  did  not  at  once  recognise  Jesus  as  the 
Messiah,  although  he  had  just  declared  to  the  people 
the  near  approach  of  his  own  Superior;  yet,  being  doubt- 
less personally  well  acquainted  with  his  relative,  in 
whom  he  must  have  perceived  the  tokens  of  an  extraor-  ' 
dinary  religious  personage,  he  modestly  declined  to  per- 
lorm  a ceremony  that  seemed  to  imply  his  own  pre-em- 
inence; but  upon  his  compliance  with  the  request  of 
Jesus,  on  the  ground  of  the  propriety  of  this  prelimina- 
ry ordinance,  a divine  attestation,  both  in  a visible  [see  I 
Dove] and  an  audible  [see  Batu-kol]  form,  was  pub- 
licly given  as  to  the  sacred  character  of  Jesus,  and  in 
such  clear  conformity  to  a criterion  which  John  him- 
self had  already  received  hv  the  inward  revelation,  that 
he  at  once  began  to  proclaim  the  advent  of  the  Messiah 
in  his  person  (prob.  August,  A.I).  25).  See  John  the 
Bautin i\  After  this  inauguration  of  his  public  career, 
Jesus  immediately  retired  into  the  desert  of  Judsea, 
where,  during  a fast  of  forty  days,  he  endured  those  in- 
terior temptations  of  Satan  which  should  suffice  to  prove 
the  superiority  of  his  virtue  to  that  power  to  which 
Adam  hail  succumbed;  and  at  its  close  he  successfully 
resisted  three  special  attempts  of  the  devil  in  a personal 
f"nn  move  him  first  to  doubt  and  then  to  presume 
upon  th;  divine  care,  and  finally  to  bribe  him  to  such 
barefaced  idolatry  that  Jesus  indignantly  repelled  him 
irom  his  presence  (Matt,  iv,  1-1 1,  and  parallels).  See 
iCMPTATiox.  The  effect  of  John’s  open  testimony  to 
the  character  of  Jesus,  as  lie  began  his  preaching  afresh  j 


Map  of  our  Lord’s  Journeys  during  the  introductory  Year 
of  his  Ministry. 

N.B. — The  heavy  lines  on  the  Map  indicate  those  parts  of  the  route  along 
which  Jesus  likewise  returned. 

the  next  season  on  the  other  side  of  the  Jordan,  was  such 
as  not  only  to  lead  to  a deputation  of  inquiry  to  him 
from  the  Sanhedrim  on  the  subject,  hut  also  to  induce 
two  of  the  Baptist’s  disciples  to  attach  themselves  to 
Christ,  one  of  whom  immediately  introduced  his  own 
brother  to  his  newly-found  Master,  and  to  these,  as  he 
wras  departing  for  Galilee,  were  added  two  others  of  their 
acquaintance  (John  i,  19-36).  On  arriving  at  Cana 
(q.v.),  whither  he  had  been  invited  with  his  relatives 
and  friends  to  a wredding  festival,  Jesus  performed  his 
first  miracle  by  changing  water  into  wine  for  the  supply 
of  the  guests  (John  ii,  1—11 ; prob.  March,  A.D.  26). 

2.  First  more  jmblic  Year. — After  a short  visit  at  Ca- 
pernaum, Jesus  returned  to  J uiljva  in  order  to  attend  the 
Passover  ; and  finding  the  entrance  to  the  Temple 
choked  with  various  kinds  of  merchant-stalls,  he  forci- 
bly expelled  their  sacrilegious  occupants,  and  vindicated 
his  authority  by  a prediction  of  his  resurrection,  which 
w'as  at  the  time  misunderstood  (John  ii,  12-22).  His 


JESUS  CHRIST 


889 


JESUS  CHRIST 


miracles  daring  the  Paschal  week  confirmed  the  popular 
impression  concerning  his  prophetic  character,  and  even 
induced  a member  of  the  Sanhedrim  to  seek  a private 
interview  with  him  [see  Nicodemus]  ; but  his  doctrine 
of  the  necessity  of  a spiritual  change  in  his  disciples 
[see  Regeneration],  and  his  statement  of  his  own 
passion  [see  Atonement],  were  neither  intelligible  nor 
agreeable  to  the  worldly  minds  of  the  people  (John  ii, 
23-25;  iii,  1-21).  Jesus  now  proceeded  to  the  Jordan, 
and  by  the  instrumentality  of  his  disciples  continued 
the  inaugural  baptism  of  the  people  instituted  by  John, 
who  had  meanwhile  removed  further  up  the  river, 
where,  so  far  from  being  jealous  of  Jesus’s  increasing 
celebrity,  he  gave  still  stronger  testimony  to  the  supe- 
rior destiny  of  Jesus  (John  iii,  22-8(5) ; but  the  impris- 
onment of  John  not.  long  afterwards  by  order  of  Herod 
(Matt,  xiv,  3 sq. ; Mark  vi,  17  sq. ; Luke  iii,  19)  ren- 
dered it  expedient  (Matt.  5v,  12;  Mark  i,  14),  in  con- 
nection with  the  odium  excited  by  the  hierarchy  (John 
iv,  1-3),  that  Jesus  shotdd  retire  into  Galilee  (Luke  iv, 
14).  On  his  way  thither,  his  conversation  with  a Sa- 


I maritan  female  at  the  well  of  Jacob  (q.  v.),  near  She- 
cliem,  on  the  spiritual  blessings  of  God’s  true  worship- 
pers, led  to  her  conversion,  with  a large  number  of  her 
fellow-citizens,  among  whom  he  tarried  two  days  (John 
iv,  4-42;  prob.  December,  A.D.  2(5).  On  his  arrival  in 
Galilee  he  was  received  with  great  respeet  (John  iv,  43- 
45),  and  his  public  announcements  of  the  advent  of  the 
Messianic  age  (Matt,  iv,  17 ; Mark  i,  14,  15)  in  all  the 
synagogues  of  that  country  spread  his  fame  still  more 
widely  (Luke  iv,  14,  15).  In  this  course  of  preaching 
he  revisited  Cana,  ami  there,  by  a word,  cured  the  son 
of  one  of  Herod’s  courtiers  that  lay  at  the  point  of  death 
at  Capernaum  (John  iv,  46-54).  Arriving  at  Nazareth, 
lie  was  invited  by  his  townsmen  to  read  the  Scripture 
lesson  (Isa.  lxi,  1,  2)  in  the  synagogue,  but  they  took 
such  offence  at  his  application  of  it  to  himself,  and  still 
more  at  his  comments  upon  it,  that  they  hurried  him 
tumultuously  to  the  brink  of  a precipice,  and  would 
have  thrown  him  off  had  he  not  escaped  from  their 
hands  (Luke  iv,  16-30).  Thenceforward  he  fixed  upon 
Capernaum  (q.  v.)  as  his  general  place  of  residence 


Ruins  of  the  “Synagogue”  at  Tell-IInm  (probably  Caper- 
naum). (From  Photograph  54  of  the  “ Palestine  Explo- 
ration Fund.”) 


(Matt,  iv,  13-16).  In  one  of  his  excursions  in  this 
neighborhood,  after  addressing  the  people  on  the  lake 
shore  from  a boat  on  the  water,  he  directed  the  owners 
of  the  boat  to  a spot  further  out  from  the  shore,  where 
they  caught  so  evidently  miraculous  a draught  of  fish 
as  to  convince  both  them  and  their  partners  of  his  su- 
perhuman character,  and  then  invited  all  four  of  the 
fishermen  to  become  his  disciples,  a call  which  they 
promptly  obeyed  (Luke  v,  1-10;  Matt,  iv,  19-22;  and 
parallels).  On  his  return  to  Capernaum  he  restored  a 
daunoniac  among  the  assembly  whom  he  addressed  in  the 
synagogue,  to  the  astonishment  of  the  audience  and  vi- 
cinity (Mark  i,  21-29,  and  parallels),  and,  retiring  to  the 
house  of  one  of  these  lately  chosen  followers,  he  cured  his 
mother-in-law  of  a fever,  as  well  as  various  descriptions 
of  invalids  and  deranged  persons,  at  sunset  of  the  same 
day  (Mark  i,  29-34;  Matt,  viii,  17 ; and  parallels).  Ris- 
ing the  next  morning  for  solitary  prayer  before  any  of 
the  family  were  stirring,  he  set  out,  notwithstanding 
the  remonstrances  of  his  host  as  soon  as  he  had  discov- 
ered him,  to  make  a general  tour  of  Galilee,  preaching 
to  multitudes  who  flocked  to  hear  him  from  all  direc- 
tions, and  supporting  his  doctrines  by  miraculous  eures 
of  every  species  of  physical  and  mental  disease  (Mark  i, 
35-38;  Matt,  iv,  23-25;  and  parallels;  prob.  February, 
A.D.  27).  One  of  these  eases  was  a leper,  whose  resto- 
ration to  purity  caused  such  crowds  to  resort  to  Jesus  as 
compelled  him  to  avoid  public  thoroughfares  (Mark  i, 
40-45,  and  parallels).  On  his  return  to  Capernaum  his 
door  was  soon  thronged  with  listeners  to  his  preaching, 
including  many  of  the  learned  Pharisees  from  Jerusa- 
lem ; and  the  cavils  of  these  latter  at  his  pronouncing 
spiritual  absolution  upon  a paralytic  whom  earnest 
friends  had  been  at  great  pains  to  let  down  at  the  feet 
of  Jesus  by  removing  the  balcony  roof  above  him,  he 
refuted  by  instantly  enabling  the  helpless  man  to  walk 


890 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST 


home,  carrying  his  couch  (Luke  v,  17-2G,  and  paral- 
lels; prob.  March,  A.D.  27).  On  another  excursion  by 
the  lake  shore,  after  preaching  to  the  people,  lie  sum- 
moned as  a disciple  the  collector  of  the  Homan  imposts 
(Mark  ii,  13,  I t,  and  parallels;  probably  April,  A.D.  27). 
See  Matthew. 

3.  Second  more  public  Fear.— The  Passover  now  drew 
near,  which  Jesus,  like  the  devout  Jews  generally,  was 
careful  to  attend  at  Jerusalem  (Saturday,  April  12,  A.D. 
27).  See  Passover.  As  he  passed  by  the  pentago- 
nal pool  of  Bethesda,  near  the  sheep-gate  of  the  city, 
he  observed  in  one  of  its  porches  an  invalid  await- 
ing the  intermittent  influx  of  the  water,  to  which 
the  populace  had  attributed  a miraculously  curative 
power  to  the  first  bather  thereafter;  but,  learning  that 
lie  had  been  thus  infirm  for  thirty-eight  years,  and  as- 
certaining from  him  that  he  was  even  too  helpless  to 
reach  the  water  in  time*to  experience  its  virtue,  he  im- 
mediately restored  him  to  vigor  by  a word.  See  Be- 
thesda.  This,  happening  to  occur  on  the  Sabbath,  so 
incensed  the  hierarchy  that  they  charged  the  author  of 


the  cure  with  a profanation  of  the  day,  and  thus  drew 
from  Jesus  a public  vindication  of  his  mission  and  an 
exposure  of  their  inconsistency  (John  v,  1-47).  As  he 
was  preparing  to  return  to  Galilee,  on  the  Sabbath  ensu- 
ing the  Paschal  week  (Saturday,  April  19,  A.D.  27),  his 
disciples  chanced  to  pluck,  as  strangers  were  privileged 
to  do  (Deut.  xxiii,  25),  a few  of  the  ripe  heads  from  the 
standing  barley,  through  which  they  were  at  the  time 
passing,  in  order  to  allay  their  hunger;  and  this  being 
captiously  alleged  by  some  Pharisee  by-standers  as  a 
fresh  violation  of  the  sacred  day,  Jesus  took  occasion  to 
rebuke  their  over-scrupulousness  as  being  confuted  by 
the  example  of  David  (1  Sam.  xxi,  1-G),  the  practice  of 
the  priests  themselves  (Numb,  xxviii,  9-19),  and  the 
tenor  of  Scripture  (IIos.  vi,  6;  compare  1 Sam.  xv,  22), 
and,  at  the  same  time,  to  point  out  the  true  design  of 
the  Sabbath  (q.  v.),  namely,  man’s  own  benefit  (Matt, 
xii,  1-8,  and  parallels).  On  an  ensuing  Sabbath  (prob. 
Saturday,  April  2G,  A.D.  27),  entering  the  synagogue 
(apparently  of  Capernaum),  he  onee  more  excited  the 
same  odium  by  curing  a man  whose  right  hand  was 
palsied;  but  his  opponents,  who  had  been  watching  the 
opportunity,  were  silenced  by  his  appeal  to  the  philan- 
thropy of  the  act,  yet  they  thenceforth  began  to  plot  his 
destruction  (Mark  iii,  1-G,  and  parallels).  Periling  to 
the  Sea  of  Galilee,  he  addressed  the  multitudes  who 
thronged  here  from  all  quarters,  and  cured  the  sick  and 
daimoniaes  among  them  (Mark  iii,  7-12;  Matt,  xii,  17- 
21,  and  parallels).  After  a night  spent  in  prayer  on  a 
mountain  in  the  vicinity,-  he  now  chose  twelve  persons 
from  among  his  followers  to  be  his  constant  attendants 
and  future  witnesses  to  his  career  (Luke  vi,  12— 1G,  and 
parallels).  See  Apostle.  Then,  descending  to  a par- 
tial plain,  he  cured  the  diseased  among  the  assembled 
multitude  (Luke  vi,  17-19),  and,  seating  liimself  upon  an 
eminence,  he  proceeded  to  deliver  his  memorable  sermon 
I exhibiting  the  spirituality  of  the  Gospel  in  opposition 
I to  the  formalism  of  the  prevalent  theology  (Matt,  v,  1- 
i 12;  Luke  vi,  24-2G;  Matt,  v,  17-24,  27-30,  33-48;  vi, 
j 1-8, 1G-18  ; vii,  1-5, 12, 15-18,  20,  21,  24-27  ; viii,  1,  and 
[ parallel  passages ; prob.  May,  A.D.  27).  See  Sermon 
on  the  Mount.  On  his  return  to  Capernaum,  Jesus, 
at  the  instance  of  the  Jewish  elders,  cured  the  son  of  a 
modest  and  pious  centurion,  who,  although  a Gentile, 
had  built  the  village  synagogue,  and  whose  faith  in  the 
power  of  Jesus  to  restore  by  his  mere  word  the  distant 
invalid  excited  the  liveliest  interest  in  the  mind  of  Je- 
sus himself  (Luke  vii,  1-10,  and  parallel).  The  ensuing 
day,  passing  near  Nain,  he  met  a large  procession  issu- 
i ing  from  the  village  for  the  interment  of  the  only  son  of 
a widow,  and,  commiserating  her  double  bereavement, 
j he  restored  the  youth  instantly  to  life,  to  the  astonish- 
| ment  of  the  beholders  (Luke  vii,  1 1-17).  John  the  Bap- 
j tist,  hearing  while  in  prison  of  these  miracles,  sent  two 
messengers  to  Jesus  to  obtain  more  explicit  assurance 
from  his  own  lips  as  to  the  Messiah,  which  he  seemed 
so  slow  plainly  to  avow;  but,  instead  of  returning  a di- 
I rect  answer,  Jesus  proceeded  to  perform  additional  mira- 
I cles  in  their  presence,  and  then  referred  them  to  the 
Scripture  prophecies  (Isa.  lxi,  1 ; xxxv,5,G)  of  these  dis- 
I tinctive  marks  of  the  Messianic  age;  but  as  soon  as  the 
messengers  had  departed,  he  eulogized  the  character  of 
John,  although  the  introducer  of  an  a?ra  less  favored 
than  the  period  of  Jesus  himself,  and  concluded  bv  se- 
vere  denunciations  of  the  cities  (especially  Capernaum, 
Chorazin,  and  Bethsaida)  which  had  continued  impeni- 
tent under  his  own  preaching  (Luke  vii,  18-35;  Matt, 
xi,  20-24 ; and  parallels).  About  this  time,  a Pharisee 
J invited  him  one  dav  to  dine  with  him,  but,  while  he  was 
reclining  at  the  table,  a female  notorious  for  her  immo- 
rality came  penitently  behind  him  and  bedewed  with 
her  tears  his  unsandaled  feet  extended  beyond  the  couch, 
then  wiped  them  with  her  hair,  and  finally  affectionate- 
ly anointed  them  with  ointment  brought  for  that  pur- 
pose, while  the  host  scarcely  restrained  his  surprise  that 
Jesus  should  suffer  this  familiarity;  but,  in  a pointed 
parable  of  two  debtors  released  from  dissimilar  amounts, 


JESUS  CHRIST 


891 


JESUS  CHRIST 


Ruins  of  the  “ Synagogue”  at  Kerazeh  (Chorazin).  (From 
Photograph  51  of  the  “Palestine  Exploration  Fond.”) 

Jesus  at  once  justified  the  love  of  the  woman  and  re- 
buked the  sordidness  of  the  host,  who  had  neglected 
these  offices  of  respect,  and  then  confirmed  the  woman’s 
trembling  hopes  of  pardon  for  her  past  sins  (Luke  vii, 
36-50).  He  next  set  out  on  his  second  tour  of  Galilee 
(summer  of  A.D.  27j,  accompanied  by  several  grateful 
females  who  bore  his  expenses  (Luke  viii,  1-3).  No 
sooner  had  he  returned  to  Capernaum  (prob.  Oct.  A.D. 
27)  than  such  crowds  reassembled  at  his  house  that  his 
friends  sought  to  restrain  what  they  deemed  his  exces- 
sive enthusiasm  to  address  them,  while  the  jealous  hi- 
erarchy from  Jerusalem,  who  were  present,  scrupled  not 
to  attribute  to  collusion  with  .Satan  the  cure  of  a blind 
and  dumb  da?moniac  which  he  wrought.  But,  refuting 
this  absurd  cavil  (since  his  act  was  directly  in  opposi- 
tion to  diabolical  influences),  he.  denounced  it  as  an  un- 
pardonable crime  against  the  Holy  Spirit,  who  was  the 
agent,  and  proceeded  to  characterize  the  rancor  of  heart 
that  had  prompted  it ; then,  after  refusing  to  gratify  the 
curiosity  of  one  of  his  enemies,  who  interrupted  him  by 
demanding  some  celestial  portent  in  confirmation  of  his 
claims  (for  he  declared  no  further  miracle  should  be 
granted  to  them  except  his  eventual  resurrection,  which 
he  compared  to  the  restoration  of  Jonah  from  the  maw 
of  the  fish),  he  contrasted  the  obduracy  of  the  genera- 
tion that  heard  him  with  the  penitence  of  the  Ninevites 
and  the  eagerness  of  the  queen  of  Sheba  to  listen  to  far 
inferior  wisdom,  and  closed  by  comparing  their  aggra- 
vated condition  to  that  of  a relapsed  daunouiac  (Mark 
iii,  19-21;  Matt,  xii,  22-45;  and  parallels).  A woman 
present  pronounced  his  mother  happy  in  having  such  a 
son,  but  he  declared  those  rather  happy  who  obeyed  his 
teaching  (Luke  xi,  27).  At  that  moment,  being  inform- 
ed of  the  approach  of  his  relatives,  and  their  inability  to 
reach  him  through  the  crowd,  he  avowed  his  faithful 
followers  to  be  dearer  than  his  earthly  kindred  (Matt, 
xii,  40-50,  and  parallels).  A Pharisee  (q.  v.)  present  in- 
vited him  to  dinner,  but,  on  his  evincing  surprise  that 
his  guest  did  not  perform  the  ablutions  customary  before 
eating,  Jesus  inveighed  against  the  absurd  and  hypocrit- 
ical zeal  of  the  sect  concerning  externals,  while  they 
neglected  the  essentials  of  piety;  and  when  a devotee 
of  the.  law  [see  Lawyer]  complained  of  the  sweeping 
character  of  these  charges,  he  denounced  the  selfish  and 
ruinous  casuistry  of  this  class  likewise  with  such  severi- 
ty that  the  whole  party  determined  to  entrap  him.  if 
possible,  into  some  unguarded  expression  against  the 
religious  or  civil  power  (Luke  xi,  37-42.  44-46,  52-54, 
and  parallel).  See  Scribe.  On  his  way  home  he  con- 
tinued to  address  the  immense  concourse,  first  against 
the  hypocrisy  which  he  had  just  witnessed,  and  then — 
taking  occasion  from  the  demand  of  a person  present 
that  he  would  use  his  authority  to  compel  his  brother 
to  settle  their  father’s  estate  with  him,  which  he  refused 
on  the  ground  of  its  irrelevancy  to  his  sacred  functions 
— he  proceeded  to  discourse  on  the  necessity  and  pro- 
priety of  trust  in  divine  Providence  for  our  temporal 
wants,  illustrating  this  duty  by  the  parable  of  the  sud- 


den death  of  a rich  worldling,  by  a comparison  with 
various  natural  objects,  by  contrast  with  the  heathen, 
and  by  the  higher  importance  of  a preparation  for 
heaven  (Luke  xii,  1,  6,  7,  13-31,  33,  34,  and  parallels). 
Being  informed  of  a recent  atrocity  of  Herod  against 
some  Galileans,  he  declared  that  an  equally  awful  fate 
awaited  the  impenitent  among  his  hearers,  and  enforced 
the  admonition  by  the  parable  of  the  delay  in  cutting 
down  a fruitless  tree  (Luke  xiii,  1-9).  Again  leaving 
his  home  the  same  day,  he  delivered,  while  sitting  in  a 
boat,  to  a large  audience  upon  the  lake-shore,  the  sev- 
eral parables  of  the  different  fate  of  various  portions  of 
seed  ilia  field,  the  true  and  false  wheat  growing  togeth- 
er till  harvest,  the  gradual  but  spontaneous  develop- 
ment of  a plant  of  grain,  the  remarkable  growth  of  the 
mustard-shrub  from  a very  small  seed,  and  the  dissem- 
ination of  leaven  throughout  a large  mass  of  dough 
(Matt,  xiii,  1-9,24-30;  Mark  iv,  26-29;  Matt,  xiii,  31- 
36;  and  parallels);  but  it  was  only  to  the  privileged 
disciples  (as  he  informed  them)  in  private  that  he  ex- 
I plaindd,  at  their  own  request,  the  various  elements  of 
the  first  of  these  parables  as  referring  to  the  different 
| degrees  of  improvement  made  by  the  corresponding 
I classes  of  his  own  hearers,  adding  various  admonitions 
(by  comparisons  with  common  life)  to  diligence  on  the 
i part  of  the  apostles,  and  then,  after  explaining  the  par- 
i able  of  the  false  wheat  as  referring  to  the  divine  for- 
; bearance  to  eradicate  the  wicked  in  this  scene  of  proba- 
tion, he  added  the  parable  of  the  assortment  of  a licto- 
! rogeneous  draught  of  fish  in  a common  net,  indicative  of 
the  final  discrimination  of  the  foregoing  characters,  with 
two  minor  parables  illustrating  the  paramount  value  of 
piety,  and  closed  with  an  exhortation  to  combine  nov- 
elty with  orthodoxy  in  religious  preaching,  like  the  va- 
ried stores  of  a skilful  housekeeper  (Matt,  xiii,  10,  11, 
j 13-23;  v,  14-16;  vi,  22,  23;  x,  26,  27;  xiii,  12,  86-43, 
| 47-50,  44-46,  51-53;  and  parallels).  See  Parable.  As 
j Jesus  was  setting  out,  towards  evening  of  the  same  day, 
to  cross  the  lake,  a scribe  proposed  to  become  his  con- 
stant  disciple,  but  was  repelled  by  being  reminded  by 
I Jesus  of  the  hardships  to  which  he  would  expose  him- 
self in  his  company;  two  others  of  his  attendants  were 
refused  a temporary  leave  of  absence  to  arrange  their 
domestic  affairs,  lest  it  might  wean  them  altogether 
from  his  service  (Matt,  viii,  18-22;  Luke  xi.61,62;  and 
parallels').  While  the  party  were  crossing  the  lake,  Je- 
sus, overcome  with  the  labors  of  the  day,  had  fallen 
asleep  on  the  stern  bench  of  the  boat,  when  so  violent  a 
sepiall  te>ok  them  that,  in  the  utmost  consternation,  they 
appealed  to  him  for  preservation,  and,  rebuking  their 
distrust  of  his  defending  presence,  he  calmed  the  tem- 
I pest  with  a word  (Matt,  viii,  23-27,  and  parallels).  See 
I Galilee,  Sea  or.  On  reaching  the  eastern  shore,  they 
, were  met  by  two  frantic  dicmoniacs,  roaming  in  the  de- 
| sorted  catacombs  of  Gadara,  who  prostrated  themselves 
before  Jesus,  and  implored  his  forbearance;  but  the  Sa- 
tanic infiuence  that  possessed  them,  on  being  expelled 
by  him,  with  his  permission  seized  upon  a large  herd  of 
swine  feeding  near  (probably  raised,  contrary  to  the  law, 
for  supplying  the  market  of  the  Grcck-imitating  Jews), 
and  caused  them  to  rush  headlong  into  the  lake,  where 
they  were  drowned  [see  D.emoniac]  ; and  this  loss  so 
offended  the  worldly-minded  owners  of  the  swine  that 
the  neighbors  generally  requested  Jesus  to  return  home, 
which  he  immediately  did,  leaving  the  late  maniacs  to 
fill  the  country  with  the  remarkable  tidings  of  tin  ir 
| cure  (Mark  v,  1-21.  and  parallels).  Not  long  aftc  rwards, 
on  occasion  of  a large  entertainment  made  for  Jesus  by 
Matthew,  the  Pharisees  found  fault  with  the  disciples 
because  their  Master  had  condescended  to  associate  with 
the  tax-gatherers  and  other  disreputable  persons  that 
were  guests;  but  Jesus  declared  that  such  had  most 
need  of  his  intercourse,  his  mission  being  to  reclaim  sin- 
! ners  (Matt,  ix,  10-13,  and  parallels).  At  the  same  time 
' lie  explained  to  an  inquirer  why  he  did  not  enjoin  sea- 
sons of  fasting  like  the  Baptist,  that  his  presence  as  yet 
; should  rather  be  a cause  of  gladness  to  his  followers, 


892 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST 

and  lie  illustrated  the  impropriety  of  such  severe  re-  I 
quirements  prematurely  by  the  festivity  of  a marriage  ^ 
week,  and  by  the  parables  of  a new  patch  on  an  old  gar- 
meat,  and  new  wine  in  old  skin-bottles  (Matt,  ix,  14-17, 
and  parallels).  In  the  midst  of  these  remarks  he  was 
entreated  by  a leading  citizen  named  Ja'irus  (q.v.)  to 
visit  his  daughter,  who  lay  at  the  point  of  death  ; and 
while  going  for  that  purpose  he  cured  a female  among 
the  crowd  of  a chronic  haemorrhage  (q.v.)  by  her  secret- 
ly touching  the  edge  of  his  dress,  which  led  to  her  dis- 
covery and  acknowledgment  on  the  spot;  but  in  the 
meantime  information  arrived  of  the  death  of  the  sick 
girl:  nevertheless,  encouraging  the  father’s  faith, he  pro- 
ceeded to  the  house  where  her  funeral  had  already  be- 
gun, and,  entering  the  room  with  her  parents  and  three 
disciples  only,  restored  her  to  life  and  health  by  a sim- 
ple touch  and  word,  to  the  amazement  of  all  the  vicin- 
ity (Mark  v,  22-43,  and  parallels).  As  he  was  leaving 
Jairus’s  house  two  blind  men  followed  him,  whose  re- 
quest that  he  would  restore  their  sight  lie  granted  by  a 
touch;  and  on  his  return  home  he  cured  a dumb  demo- 
niac, upon  which  the  Pharisees  repeated  their  calumny 
of  his  collusion  with  Satan  (Matt,  ix,  27-34).  Visiting 
Nazareth  again  shortly  afterwards,  his  acquaintances 
were  astonished  at  his  eloquence  in  the  synagogue  on 
the  Sabbath,  but  were  so  prejudiced  against  his  obscure 
family  that  but  few  had  sufficient  faith  to  warrant  the 
exertion  of  liis  miraculous  power  in  cures  (Mark  vi,  1-6, 
and  parallel).  About  this  time  (probably  Jan.  and  Feb. 
A.D.  23),  commiserating  the  moral  destitution  of  the 
community,  Jesus  sent  out  the  apostles  in  pairs  on  a gen- 
eral tour  of  preaching  and  miracle-working  in  different 
directions  (but  avoiding  the  (lentiles  and  Samaritans), 
with  special  instructions,  while  he  made  his  third  cir- 
cuit of  (Jalilce  for  a like  purpose  (Matt,  ix,  35-38;  x, 

1,  5-14,  40-42;  xi,  1 ; Mark  vi,  12,  13;  and  parallels  '. 
Upon  their  return,  Jesus,  being  apprized  of  the  execu- 
tion of  John  the  Baptist  by  Herod  (Mark  vi,  21-29 ; 
probably  March,  A.D.  23),  and  of  the  tetrarch’s  views  of 
himself  (Mark  vi,  14-16;  see  John  the  Baptist),  re- 
tired with  them  across  the  lake,  followed  by  crowds  of 
men,  with  their  families,  whom  at  evening  he  miracu- 
lously fed  with  a few  provisions  at  hand  (Mark  vi,  30- 
44,  and  parallels),  an  act  that  excited  such  enthusiasm 
among  them  as  to  lead  them  to  form  the  plan  of  forci- 
bly proclaiming  him  their  political  king  (John  vi,  14, 
15);  this  design  Jesus  defeated  by  dismissing  the  mul- 
titude, and  sending  away  the  disciples  by  themselves  in 
a boat  across  the  lake,  while  be  spent  most  of  the  night 
alone  in  prayer  on  a neighboring  hill ; but  towards  day- 
light lie  rejoined  them,  by  walking  on  the  water  to  them 
as  they  were  toiling  at  the  oars  against  the  wind  and 
tempestuous  waves,  and  suddenly  calming  the  sea, 
brought  them  to  the  shore,  to  their  great  amazement; 
then,  as  he  proceeded  through  the  plain  of  (lennesareth. 
the  whole  country  brought  their  sick  to  him  to  be  cured 
(Matt,  xiv,  22-36,  and  parallels),  the  populace  whom  he 
had  left  on  the  eastern  shore  meanwhile  missing  him, 
returned  by  boats  to  Capernaum  (John  vi,  22-24;  prok 
Thursd.  and  Friday,  March  25  and  26,  A.D.  23).  Meet- 
ing them  in  their  search  next  day  in  the  synagogue,  he 
took  occasion,  in  alluding  to  the  recent  miracle,  to  pro- 
claim himself  to  them  at  large  as  the  celestial  “man- 
na for  the  soul,  hot  cooled  their  political  ambition  by 
u timing  them  that  the  benefits  of  his  mission  could 
only  lie  received  through  a participation  hv  faith  in  the 
atoning  sacrifice  shortly  to  he  made  in  his  own  person  ; 
a doctrine  that  soon  discouraged  their  adherence  to  him,  ^ 
but  proved  no  stumbling-block  to  the  steadfast  faith  of  ' 
eleven  of  his  apostles  (John  vi,  25-71 ; prob.  Saturday, 
March  27,  A.D.  23).  * 

4.  Third  more  public  Year. — Avoiding  the  malicious 
plots  of  the  hierarchy  at  Jerusalem  hv  remaining  at 
( apernaum  during  the  Passover  (John  vii,  1 : probably 
Nnulay,  March  23.  A.D.  23),  Jesus  took  occasion,  from 
the  fault  found  by  some  Pharisees  from  the  capital 
against  his  disciples  for  eating  with  unwashed  hands ! 


Map  of  our  Saviour’s  Travels  clnring  the  third  more  pub- 
lic Year  of  his  Ministry. 

[see  Ablution],  to  rebuke  their  traditional  scrupulous- 
ness as  subversive  of  the  true  intent  of  the  Law,  and  to 
expound  to  liis  disciples  the  true  cause  of  moral  defile- 
ment, as  consisting  in  tlic  corrupt  affections  of  the  heart 
(Mark  vii,  1-16;  Matt,  xv,  12-20;  and  parallels).  Be- 
tiring  to  the  borders  of  Phoenicia,  he  was  besought  with 
such  importunity  by  a (icntile  woman  to  cure  her  de- 
moniac daughter,  that,  after  overcoming  with  the  most 
touching  arguments  his  assumed  indifference,  her  faith 
gained  his  assent,  and  on  reaching  home  she  found  her 
daughter  restored  (Matt,  xv,  21-28,  and  parallel;  prob. 
May,  A.D.  28).  Thence  returning  through  the  Dcc-ap- 
olis,  publicly  teaching  tin  the  way,  he  cured  a deaf  and 
dumb  person,  with  many  other  invalids,  and,  miracu- 
lously feeding  the  great  multitude  that  followed  him, 
he  sailed  across  to  the  western  shore  of  the  lake  (Mark 
vii,  3 1-37;  Matt,  xv,  30-39;  and  parallels),  where  he  re- 
buked the  Pharisees’  demand  of  some  celestial  prodigy  by 
referring  them  to  the  tokens  of  the  existing  sera,  which 
were  as  evident  as  signs  of  the  weather,  and  admonish- 
ing them  of  the  coming  retribution  (Matt,  xvi,  1-3;  v. 


JESUS  CHRIST 


893 


JESUS  CHRIST 


25,  26),  and,  again  hinting  at  the  crowning  miracle  of 
liis  resurrection,  he  returned  to  the  eastern  side  of  the 
lake,  warning  liis  disciples  on  the  way  of  the  pernicious 
doctrine  of  the  sectaries,  which  lie  compared  to  leaven 
(Matt,  xvi,  4-12,  and  parallels).  Proceeding  to  Beth- 
saida  (in  Peraea),  he  cured  a blind  man  in  a gradual 
manner  by  successive  touches  of  his  eyes  (Mark  viii, 
22-26),  and  on  his  way  through  the  environs  of  Ca>sa- 
rea-Pliilippi,  after  private  devotion,  he  elicited  from  the 
disciples  a profession  of  their  faith  in  him  as  the  Mes- 
siah, and  conferred  upon  them  the  right  of  legislating 
for  his  future  Church,  but  rebuked  Peter  for  demurring 
at  his  prediction  of  his  own  approaching  passion,  and 
enjoined  the  strictest  self-denial  upon  his  followers,  in 
view  of  the  eventual  retribution  shortly  to  be  foreshad- 
owed by  the  overthrow  of  the  Jewish  nation  (Matt,  xvi, 
13-28,  and  parallels ; prob.  May,  A.D.  28).  A week  af- 
terwards, taking  three  disciples  only  with  him,  he  as- 
cended a lofty  mountain  in  the  vicinity  (prob.  llermon), 
where  his  person  experienced  a remarkable  luminous- 
ness [see  Transfiguration], with  other  prodigies,  that 
at  first  alarmed  the  disciples;  and,  on  descending  the 
mountain,  he  explained  the  allusion  (Mai.  iv,  5,  6)  to 
Elijah  (who,  with  Moses,  had  just  conversed  with  him 
in  a glorified  state)  as  meaning  John  the  Baptist,  lately 
put  to  death  (Matt,  xvii,  1-13,  and  parallels).  On  his 
return  to  the  rest  of  the  disciples,  he  found  them  dis- 
puting with  the  Jewish  sectaries  concerning  a demoniac 
deaf-mute  child  whom  the  former  had  vainly  endeavor- 
ed to  cure ; the  father  now  earnestly  entreating  Jesus  to 
exercise  his  power  over  the  malady,  although  of  long 
duration,  lie  immediately  restored  the  lad  to  perfect 
soundness,  and  privately  explained  to  the  disciples  the 
cause  of  their  failure  as  lying  in  their  want  of  faith 
(Mark  ix,  14-28,  and  parallels),  which  would  have  ren- 
dered them  competent  to  any  requisite  miracle  (Luke 
xvii,  5,  6,  and  parallel)  if  coupled  with  devout  humility 
(Mark  ix,  20,  and  parallel).  Thence  passing  over  into 
Galilee,  he  again  foretold  his  ignominious  crucifixion 
and  speedy  resurrection  to  his  disciples,  who  still  failed 
to  apprehend  his  meaning  (Mark  ix,  30-32,  and  paral- 
lels). On  the  return  of  the  party  to  Capernaum,  the 
collector  of  the  Temple-tax  waited  upon  Peter  for  pay- 
ment from  his  Master,  who,  although  stating  his  exemp- 
tion by  virtue  of  his  high  character,  yet,  for  the  sake  of 
peace,  directed  Peter  to  catch  a fish,  which  would  be 
found  to  have  swallowed  a piece  of  money  sufficient  to 
pay  for  them  both  (Matt,  xvii,  24-27 ; prob.  June,  A. I). 
28).  About  this  time  Jesus  rebuked  the  disciples  for  a 
strife  into  which  they  had  fallen  for  the  highest  honors 
under  their  Master’s  reign  by  placing  a child  in  their 
midst  as  a symbol  of  artless  innocence ; and  upon  John’s 
remarking  that  they  bad  lately  silenced  an  unknown  per- 
son acting  in  his  name,  he  reprimanded  such  bigotry, 
enlarging  by  various  similes  upon  the  duty  of  tenderly 
dealing  with  new  converts,  and  closing  with  rules  for 
the  expulsion  of  an  unworthy  member  from  their  socie- 
ty, adding  the  parable  of  the  unmerciful  servant  to  en- 
force the  doctrine  of  leniency  (Mark  ix,  33-40,  42,  49, 
50;  Matt,  xviii,  10,  15-35;  and  parallels).  Some  time 
afterwards  (prob.  September,  A.I).  28)  Jesus  sent  seven- 
ty of  the  most  trusty  among  liis  followers,  in  pairs, 
through  the  region  which  he  intended  shortly  to  visit, 
with  instructions  similar  to  those  before  given  to  the 
apostles,  but  indicative  of  the  opposition  they  would  be 
likely  to  meet  with  (Luke  x,  1-3;  Matt,  vii,  G;  x,  23- 
26;  and  parallels);  and  then,  after  declining  to  accom- 
pany his  worldly-minded  brothers  to  the  approaching 
festival  of  Tabernacles  at  Jerusalem,  to  which  they 
urged  him  as  a favorable  opportunity  for  exhibiting  his 
wonderful  powers,  near  the  close  of  the  festal-week  he 
went  thither  privately  (John  vii,  2-10),  experiencing 
on  the  way  the  inhospitalitv  of  the  Samaritans  with  a 
patience  that  rebuked  the  indignation  of  one  of  his  dis- 
ciples (Luke  ix,  51-56),  and  receiving  the  grateful  ac- 
knowledgments of  a single  Samaritan  among  ten  lepers 
whom  he  cured  (Luke  xvii,  1 1-19). 


5.  Last  half  Year. — On  the  opening  of  the  festival  at 
Jerusalem  (Sunday,  Sept.  21,  A.D.  28),  the  hierarchy 
eagerly  inquired  for  Jesus  among  the  populace,  who 
held  discordant  opinions  concerning  him ; but,  on  his 
arrival,  he  boldly  taught  in  the  Temple,  vindicating  his 
course  and  claims  so  eloquently  that  the  very  officers 
sent  by  his  enemies  to  arrest  him  returned  abashed, 
while  the  people  continued  divided  in  their  sentiments, 
being  inclined  to  accept  his  cordial  invitations  (Matt, 
xi,  28-30), but  deterred  by  the  specious  objections  of  the 
hierarchy  (John  vii,  11-53).  Next  morning,  returning 
from  the  Mt.  of  Olives  (prob.  the  residence  of  Lazarus 
at  Bethany),  in  the  midst  of  his  teaching  in  the  Tem- 
ple he  dismissed,  with  merely  an  admonition,  a female 
brought  to  him  as  an  adulteress  (q.  v.),  with  a view  to 
embarrass  him  in  the  disposal  of  the  case,  none  of  his 
conscience-stricken  accusers  daring  to  be  the  first  in  ex- 
ecuting the  penalty  of  the  law  when  allowed  to  do  so 
by  Jesus  (John  viii,  1-1 1).  He  then  continued  his  ex- 
postulations with  his  captious  hearers  respecting  his  own 
character,  until  at  length,  on  his  avowing  his  divine 
pre-existence,  they  attempted  to  stone  him  as  guilty 
of  blasphemy,  but  he  withdrew  from  their  midst  (John 
viii,  12-59).  The  seventy  messengers  returning  shortly 
afterwards  (prob.  Oct.  A.D.  28)  with  a report  of  great 
success,  Jesus  expressed  his  exultation  in  thanks  to  God 
for  the  humble  instrumentality  divinely  chosen  for  the 
propagation  of  the  Gospel  (Luke  x,  17-21,  and  parallel). 
Being  asked  by  a Jewish  sectary  the  most  certain  meth- 
od of  securing  heaven,  he  referred  him  to  the  duty,  ex- 
pressed in  the  law  (Dent,  vi,  5 ; Lev.  xix,  8),  of  supreme 
love  to  God  and  cordial  philanthropy,  and,  in  answer  to 
the  other’s  question  respecting  the  extent  of  the  latter 
obligation,  he  illustrated  it  by  the  parable  of  the  benev- 
olent Samaritan  (Luke  x,  25-37).  lieturning  at  even- 
ing to  the  home  of  Lazarus,  lie  gently  reproved  the  im- 
patient zeal  of  the  kind  Martha  in  preparing  for  him  a 
meal,  and  defended  Mary  for  being  absorbed  in  liis  in- 
structions (Luke  x,  38-42).  After  a season  of  private 
prayer  (prob.  in  Gethsemane,  on  his  way  to  Jerusalem, 
next  morning),  he  dictated  a model  of  prayer  to  his  dis- 
ciples at  their  request,  stating  the  indispensableness  of 
a placable  spirit  towards  others  in  order  to  our  own  for- 
giveness by  God,  and  adding  the  parable  of  the  guest  at 
midnight  to  enforce  the  necessity  of  urgency  in  prayer, 
with  assurances  that  God  is  more  willing  to  grant  his 
children’s  petitions  for  spiritual  blessings  than  earthly 
parents  are  to  to  supply  their  children’s  temporal  wants 
(Luke  xi.  1-13.  and  parallels).  As  he  entered  the  city, 
Jesus  noticed  a man  whom  he  ascertained  to  have  been 
blind  from  his  birth,  and  to  the  disciples’  inquiry  for 
whose  sin  the  blindness  was  a punishment,  he  answered 
that  it  was  providentially  designed  for  the  divine  glory, 
namely,  in  his  cure,  as  a means  to  which  he  moistened 
a little  elav  with  spittle,  touched  the  man’s  eyes  with  it, 
and  directed  him  to  wash  them  in  the  Pool  of  Siloam 
(Saturday,  Nov.  28,  A.D.  28) ; but  the  hierarchy,  learn- 
ing the  cure  from  the  neighbors,  brought  the  man  before 
them,  because  the  transaction  had  taken  place  on  the 
Sabbath,  and  disputed  the  fact  until  testified  to  by  his 
parents,  and  then  alleging  that  the  author  of  the  act, 
whose  name  was  yet  unknown  even  to  the  man  himself, 
must  have  been  a sinner,  because  a violator  of  the  sa- 
cred day,  they  were  met  with  so  spirited  a defence  of 
Jesus  by  the  man  himself,  that,  becoming  enraged,  they 
immediately  excommunicated  him.  Jesus,  however, 
meeting  him  shortly  after,  disclosed  to  his  ready  faith 
his  own  Messianic  character,  and  then  discoursed  to  his 
captious  enemies  concerning  the  immunities  of  true  be- 
lievers in  him  under  the  simile  of  a fold  of  sheep  (John 
ix;  x,  1-21).  The  same  figure  he  again  took  up  at  the 
ensuing  Festival  of  Dedication,  upon  the  inquiry  of  the 
Jewish  sectaries  directly  put  to  him  in  Solomon’s  por- 
tico of  the  Temple,  as  to  his  Messiahship,  and  spoke  so 
pointedly  of  his  unity  with  God  that  his  auditors  would 
have  stoned  him  for  blasphemy  had  he  not  hastily  with- 
drawn from  the  place  (cir.  Dec.  I,A.D.  28),  and  retired 


JESUS  CHRIST 


894 


JESUS  CHRIST 


to  the  Jordan,  where  he  sained  many  adherents  (John 
x,  22-42).  Lazarus  at  this  time  falling  sick,  his  sisters 
sent  to  Jesus,  desiring  his  presence  at  Bethany ; but  af- 
ter waiting  several  days,  until  Lazarus  was  dead,  he  in- 
formed his  disciples  of  the  fact  (which  he  assured  them 
would  turn  out  to  the  divine  glory),  and  proposed  to  go 
thither.  On  their  arrival,  he  was  met  first  by  Martha, 
and  then  by  Mary,  with  tearful  expressions  of  regret  for 
his  absence,  which  he  checked  by  assurances  (not  clear- 
lv  apprehended  by  them)  of  their  brother’s  restoration 
to  life;  then  causing  the  tomb  to  be  opened  (after  over- 
ruling Martha’s  objection),  he  summoned  the  dead  Laz- 
arus forth  to  life,  to  the  amazement  of  the  spectators 
(John  xi,  1-46 ; probably  Jan.  A.D.  29).  See  Lazakus. 
This  miracle  aroused  afresh  the  enmity  of  the  Sanhe- 
drim, who,  after  consultation,  at  the  haughty  advice  of 
Caiaphas,  determined  to  accomplish  his  death,  thus  un- 
wittingly fulfilling  the  destined  purpose  of  his  mission 
(John  xi,  47-53).  Withdrawing  in  consequence  to  the 
city  of  Kphron  (John  xi,  54),  and  afterwards  to  Fersea, 
Jesus  continued  his  teaching  and  miracles  to  crowds 
that  gathered  about  him  (Mark  x,  1,  and  parallel).  As 
he  was  preaching  in  one  of  the  synagogues  of  this  vi- 
cinity one  Sabbath,  he  cured  a woman  of  chronic  paraly- 
sis of  the  back,  and  refuted  the  churlish  cavil  of  one  of 
the  hierarchy  present  at  the  day  on  which  this  was 
done,  by  a reference  to  ordinary  acts  of  mercy  even  to 
animals  on  the  Sabbath  (Luke  xiii,  10-17;  prob.  Feb. 
A.1).  29).  Jesus  now  turned  his  steps  towards  Jerusa-  [ 
lem,  teaching  on  the  way  the  necessity  of  a personal 
preparation  for  heaven,  without  trusting  to  any  exter-  j 
nal  recommendations  (Luke  xiii,  22-30);  and  replying 
to  the  Hiarisees’  insidious  warning  of  danger  from  Iler-  t 
od,  that  Jerusalem  alone  was  tf. a destined  place  of  peril  i 
for  him  (Luke  xiii,  31-33).  On  one  Sabbath,  while  eat-  1 
ing  at  the  house  of  an  eminent  Pharisee,  he  cured  a man 
of  the  dropsy,  and  silenced  all  objections  by  again  ap- 
pealing to  the  usual  care  of  domestic  animals  on  that 
day;  he  then  took  occasion,  f'om  the  anxiety  of  the 
guests  to  secure  the  chief  places  of  honor  at  tlie  table, 
to  discourse  to  the  company  on  the  advantages  of  mod- 
esty and  charity,  closing  by  an  admonition  to  prompt 
compliance  with  the  offers  of  the  Gospel  in  the  parable 
of  the  marriage-feast  and  the  wedding-garment  (Luke 
xiv,  1-15;  Matt,  xxii,  1-14,  and  parallel;  prob. March, 
A.D.  29).  To  the  multitudes  attending  hint  he  pre- 
scribed resolute  self-denial  as  essential  to  true  disciplc- 
sliip  (Luke  xv,  25,  20,  and  parallel),  under  various  fig- 
ures (Luke  xiv,  28-33) ; while  he  corrected  the  jealousy 
of  the  Jewish  sectaries  at  his  intercourse  with  the  lower  , 
classes  (Luke  xv,  1,2),  by  teaching  the  divine  interest 
in  penitent  wanderers  front  him  (Luke  xix,  10,  and  par- 
allel), under  the  parables  of  stray  sheep  (Luke  xv,  3-7, 
and  parallel),  the  lost  piece  of  money,  and  the  prodigal 
son  ( Luke  xv,  8-32).  At  the  same  time,  he  illustrated 
the  prudence  of  securing  the  divine  favor  by  a prudent 
use  of  the  blessings  of  this  life  in  the  parable  of  the 
fraudulent  steward  (Luke  xvi,  1-12),  showing  the  in- 
compatibility of  worldliness  with  devotion  (Luke  xvi, 
13,  and  parallel)  ; and  the  self-sufficiency  of  the  Phari- 
sees he  rebuked  in  the  parable  of  the  rich  man  and  Laz-  | 
arus  (Luke  xvi,  14,15,  19-31),  declaring  to  them  that 
the  kingdom  ol  the  Messiah  had  already  conte  unob-  I 
served  (Luke  xvii,  20,  21),  lie  impressed  upon  both 
classes  of  his  hearers  the  importance  of  perseverance, 
anil  yet  humility,  in  prayer,  by  the  parables  of  the  im-  ' 
port  unate  widow  before  the  unjust  judge,  and  the  peni- 
tent publican  in  contrast  with  the  self-righteous  Phari- 
see (Luke  xviii,  1 11).  To  the  insidious  questions  of 
the  Jewish  sectaries  concerning  divorce,  he.  replied  that 
it  \\as  inconsistent  with  the  original  design  of  marriage,  1 
being  only  suffered  by  Moses  (with  restrictions)  on  ae-  I 
count  of  the  inveterate  customs  of  the  nation,  but  really  j 
justifiable  only  in  cases  of  adultery;  but  at  the  same 
time  explained  privately  to  the  disciples  that  the  oppo-  ! 
site  extreme  of  celibacy  was  to  be  voluntarv  only  (Matt.  I 
xix,  3-12,  and  parallels),  lie  welcomed  infants  to  his  I 


arms  and  blessing,  as  being  a symbol  of  the  innocence 
required  by  the  Gospel  (Mark  x,  13-16,  and  parallels), 
A rich  and  honorable  young  man  visiting  him  with 
questions  concerning  the  way  of  salvation,  Jesus  was 
pleased  with  his  frankness,  but  proposed  terms  so  hum- 
bling to  his  worldly  attachments  that  he  retired  with- 
out accepting  them,  which  furnished  Jesus  an  oppor- 
tunity of  discoursing  to  his  followers  on  the  prejudicial 
influence  of  wealth  on  piety,  and  (in  reply  to  a remark 
of  Peter)  of  illustrating  the  rewards  of  self-denying  ex- 
ertion in  religious  duty  by  tlie  parables  of  the  servant  at 
meals  after  a day’s  work,  and  the  laborers  in  the  vine- 
yard (Mark  x,  17-29;  Matt,  xix,  28,  29 ; Luke  xvii,  7- 
10;  Matt,  xx,  1-16;  and  parallels).  As  they  had  now 
arrived  at  the  Jordan  opposite  Jerusalem,  Jesus  once 
more  warned  the  timid  disciples  of  the  fate  awaiting 
him  there  (Mark  x,  32-34);  but  they  so  little  under- 
stood him  (Luke  xvii,  34),  that  the  mother  of  James 
and  Joint  ambitiously  requested  of  him  a prominent 
post  for  her  sons  under  his  administration,  they  also  ig- 
norantly professing  their  willingness  to  share  his  suffer- 
ings, until  Jesus  checked  rivalry  between  them  and  their 
fellow-disciples  by  enjoining  upon  them  all  a mutual 
deference  in  imitation  of  his  self-sacrificing  mission 
(Matt,  xx,  20-28).  As  they  were  passing  through  Jer- 
icho, two  blind  men  implored  of  hint  to  restore  their 
sight,  and,  although  rebuked  by  the  by-standers,  they 
urged  their  request  so  importunately  as  at  length  to 
gain  the  ear  of  Jesus,  who  called  them,  and  with  a touch 
enabled  them  to  see  (Mark  x,  46-52,  and  parallels). 
Passing  along,  lie  observed  a chief  publican,  named  Zae- 
ehajiis  (q.  v.),  who  had  run  in  advance  and  climbed  a 
tree  to  get  a sight  of  Jesus,  but  who  now,  at  Jesus’s  sug- 
gestion, gladly  received  hint  to  his  house,  and  there  vin- 
dicated himself  from  the  calumnies  of  the  insidious  hi- 
erarchy by  devoting  one  half  his  property  to  charity, 
an  act  that  secured  his  commendation  by  Jesus  (Luke 
xix,  2-9),  who  took  occasion  to  illustrate  the  duty  of 
fidelity  in  improving  religious  privileges  by  the  parable 
of  the  “ talents”  or  “ pounds”  (Luke  xix,  11-28,  and  par- 
allel). Beaching  Bethany  a week  before  the  Passover, 
when  the  Sanhedrim  were  planning  to  seize  him,  Jesus 
was  entertained  at  the  house  of  Lazarus,  and  vindicated 
Mary’s  act  in  anointing  (q.  v.)  his  head  with  a flask  of 
precious  ointment,  from  the  parsimonious  objections  of 
Judas,  declaring  that  it  should  ever  be  to  her  praise  as 
highly  significant  in  view  of  his  approaching  burial 
(John  xi,  55-57 ; xii,  1-1 1 ; and  parallels). 

6,  Passion  Week.  — The  entrance  of  Jesus  into  Jeru- 
salem next  morning  (Monday,  March  14,  A.D.  29)  was 
a triumphal  one,  the  disciples  having  mounted  him 
upon  a young  ass,  which,  by  his  direction,  they  found  in 
the  environs  of  the  city,  and  spread  their  garments  and 
green  branches  along  the  road,  while  the  multitude  es- 
corting him  proclaimed  him  as  the  expected  descendant 
of  David,  to  the  ehagriu  of  the  hierarchy,  who  vainly 
qndcavorcd  to  check  the  popular  declamations  [sec  Ho- 
sanna] ; Jesus  meanwhile  was  absorbed  in  grief  at  the 
ruin  awaiting  the  impenitent  metropolis  (Matt,  xxi,  1- 
9;  John  xii,  16, 17, 19;  Luke  xix, 39-44;  and  parallels). 
Arriving  at  the  Temple  amid  this  general  excitement, 
he  again  cleared  the  Temple  courts  of  the  profane  trades- 
men, while  the  sick  resorted  to  him  for  euro,  and  the 
children  prolonged  his  praise  till  evening,  when  he  re- 
turned to  Bethany  for  the  night  (Matt,  xxi,  10-17,  and 
parallels).  On  his  .wav  again  to  the  city,  early  in  tlie 
morning,  he  pronounced  a curse  upon  a green  but  fruit- 
less fig-tree  (q.  v.)  (to  which  he  had  gone,  not  having 
yet  breakfasted,  as  if  in  hopes  of  finding  on  it  some  of 
last  year’s  late  figs),  as  a symbol  of  the  unproductive 
Jewish  nation,  the  day  being  occupied  in  teaching  at 
the  Temple  (where  tlie  multitude  of  his  hearers  pre- 
vented the  execution  of  the  liierarchal  designs  against 
him),  and  the  night,  as  usual,  at  Bethany.  On  the  en- 
suing morning  the  fig-tree  was  found  withered  to  the 
very  root,  which  led  Jesus  to  impress  upon  the  disciples 
the  efficacy  of  faith,  especially  in  their  public  functions 


JESUS  CHRIST 


895 


JESUS  CHRIST 


896 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST 


(Matt,  xxi,  18,19;  Luke  xxi,  37, 38;  xix,47,48;  Matt. 

xxi,  20-22).  This,  the  last  day  of  Jesus’s  intercourse 
with  the  public,  was  filled  with  various  discussions  (Wed- 
nesday, March  1G,  A.D.  29).  The  hierarchy,  demanding 
the  authority  for  his  public  conduct,  were  perplexed  by 
his  counter-question  as  to  the  authority  of  the  Baptists 
mission,  and  he  seized  the  occasion  to  depict  their  incon- 
sistency and  criminality  by  the  parables  of  the  two  son3 
sent  by  their  father  to  work,  and  the  murderous  garden- 
ers, with  so  vivid  a personal  reference  as  to  cover  them 
with  confusion  (Matt,  xxi,  23-46,  and  parallels).  The 
mooted  question  of  the  lawfulness  of  tribute  to  a Gent  ile 
power,  being  insidious!}’  proposed  to  him  by  a coalition 
of  the  Pharisees  and  Herodians,  was  so  readily  solved  by 
him  by  an  appeal  to  the  very  coin  paid  in  tribute,  that 
tlicv  again  retired,  unable  to  make  it  a ground  for  pub- 
lic charges  against  him  (Matt,  xxii,  15-22,  and  parallels). 
The  case  of  seven  brothers  successively  married  (under 
the  Levirate  law)  to  the  same  woman  being  next  sup- 
posed by  the  Sudducees,  he  as  easily  disposed  cf  the  im- 
aginary difficulty  concerning  her  proper  husband  in  the 
other  world  by  declaring  the  non-existence  of  such  re- 
lations there,  and  refuted  their  infidelity  as  to  the  future 
life  by  citing  a passage  of  Scripture  (Matt,  xxii,  23-33, 
and  parallels).  Seeing  the  Sadducees  so  completely  si- 
lenced, one  of  the  Pharisaical  party  undertook  to  puzzle 
Jesus  by  raising  that  disputed  point,  What  Mosaic  in- 
junction is  the  most  important?  but  Jesus  cited  the  du- 
ties of  supreme  devotion  to  God  and  general  benevolence 
to  man  as  comprising  all  other  moral  enactments,  to 
which  the  other  so  cordially  assented  as  to  draw  a com- 
mendation from  Jesus  on  his  hopeful  sentiments  (Mark 
xii,  28-84,  and  parallel).  Jesus  now  turned  the  tables 
upon  his  opponents  by  asking  them,  Whose  descendant 
the  Messiah  should  be?  and  on  their  replying,  David’s, 
of  course,  he  then  asked  how  (as  in  Psa.  cx,  1)  he  could 
still  be  David’s  Lord ? which  so  embarrassed  his  ene- 
mies that  they  desisted  from  this  mode  of  attack  (Matt. 

xxii,  41—40).  Jesus  then  in  plain  terms  denounced  be- 
fore the  concourse  the  hypocrisy  and  ostentation  of  the 
hierarchy,  especially  their  priestcraft,  their  sanctimony, 
their  ambition,  their  extortion,  their  casuistry,  and  their 
intolerance,  and  bewailed  the  impending  fate  of  the 
city  (M  att.  xxiii,  1 -1 2, 1 4-21 , 29-39,  and  parallels).  Ob- 
serving a poor  widow  drop  a few  of  the  smallest  coins 
into  the  contribution-box  in  the  Temple,  he  declared 
that  she  had  shown  more  true  liberality  than  wealthier 
donors,  because  she  had  given  more  in  proportion  to  her 
means,  and  with  greater  self-denial  (Mark  xii,  41-44, 
and  parallel).  A number  of  proselytes  [see  TIelenist] 
requesting  through  Philip  an  interview  with  Jesus,  he 
met  them  with  intimations  of  his  approaching  passion, 
while  a celestial  voice  announced  the  glory  that  should 
thereby  accrue  to  God,  and  he  then  retired  from  the  un- 
believing public  with  an  admonition  to  improve  their 
present  spiritual  privileges  (John  xii.  20-50).  As  he 
was  crossing  the  Mount  of  Olives,  his  disciples  calling 
his  attention  to  the  noble  structure  of  the  Temple  oppo- 
site, he  declared  its  speedy  demolition,  and  on  their  ask- 
ing the  time  and  tokens  of  this  catastrophe,  he  discoursed 
to  them  at  length,  first  on  ,the  coming  downfall  of  the 
city  and  nation  (warning  them  to  escape  betimes  from 
the  catastrophe),  and  then  (by  a gradual  transition,  in 
which,  under  varied  imagery,  he  represented  both  events 
more  or  less  blended)  he  passed  to  the  scenes  of  the  final 
judgment  (described  as  a forensic  tribunal),  interspers- 
ing constant  admonitions  (especially  in  the  parable  of 
the  ten  virgins)  to  preparation  for  an  event  the  date  of 
which  was  so  uncertain  (Matt,  xxiv,  1-8;  x,  17-20,34- 
36 ; xxiv,  9, 10;  x,  28;  xxiv,  13-37;  Luke  xxi.  34-36; 
Matt,  xxiv,  43,44;  Luke  xii.  41, 42;  Mark  xiii.31,34; 
Matt,  xxiv, 45-51 ; Luke  xii, 47,48;  Matt,  xxiv, 42;  xxv, 
1-12;  Luke  xii,  35-38;  Matt,  xxv,  18,31-46).  As  the 
Passover  was  now  approaching,  the  Sanhedrim  held  a se- 
cret meeting  at  the  house  of  the  high-priest,  where  they 
resolved  to  get  possession,  but  by  private  means,  of  the 
person  of  Jesus  (Thursday,  March  17,  A.D.  29),  and  Ju- 


das Iscariot,  learning  their  desire,  went  and  engaged  to 
betray  his  Master  into  their  hands,  on  the  first  opportu- 
nity, for  a fixed  reward  (Matt,  xxvi,  1-5, 14-1 G,  and  par- 
allels). 

The  same  day  Jesus  sent  two  of  his  disciples  into  the 
city,  with  directions  w here  to  prepare  the  Passover  meal 
(Luke  xxii,  7-13),  and  at  evening,  repairing  thither  to 
partake  of  it  with  the  w’hole  number  of  his  apostles  [see 
Lord’s  Supper],  he  affectionately  reminded  them  of 
the  interest  gathering  about  this  last  repast  with  them ; 
then,  while  it  was  progressing,  he  washed  their  feet  to 
reprove  their  mutual  rivalry  and  enforce  condescension 
to  one  another  by  his  own  example  [see  Washing  the 
Feet],  and  immediately  declared  his  own  betrayal  by 
one  of  their  number,  fixing  the  individual  (by  a sign 
recognised  by  him  alone)  among  the  amazed  disciples 
(Luke  xxii,  14-17,  24;  John  xiii,  1-15;  Luke  xxii,  25- 
30;  John  xiii,  17-19,  21,  22;  Matt,  xxvi,  22-24;  John 
xiii,  23-26;  Matt,  xxvi,  25;  and  parallels).  Judas  im- 
mediately withdrew,  full  of  resentment,  but  without  the 
rest  suspecting  his  purpose;  relieved  of  his  presence, 
Jesus  now  began  to  speak  of  his  approaching  fate,  when 
he  was  interrupted  by  the  surprised  inquiries  of  his  dis- 
ciples, who  produced  their  weapons  as  ready  for  his  de- 
fence, while  Peter  stoutly  maintained  his  steadfastness, 
although  warned  of  his  speedy  defection  (John  xiii,  27- 
33,  36-38;  Matt,  xxvi,  31-33;  Luke  xxii,  31-38;  and 
parallels);  then,  closing  the  meal  by  instituting  the 
Eucharist  (q.  v.)  (Matt,  xxvi,  26-29,  and  parallels),  Je- 
sus lingered  to  discourse  at  length  to  his  disciples  (whose 
questions  showed  how  little  they  comprehended  him) 
on  his  departure  at  hand,  and  the  gift  (in  consequence) 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  with  exhortations  to  religions  activ- 
ity and  mutual  love,  and,  after  a prayer  for  the  divine 
safeguard  upon  them  (John  xiv,  1-xv,  17;  xiii,  34,  35; 
xv,  18-xvii,  26),  he  retired  with  them  to  the  Mount  of 
Olives  (John  xviii,  1,  and  parallels).  Here,  entering 
the  garden  of  Gethsemane,  he  withdrew,  with  three  of 
the  disciples,  a short  distance  from  the  rest,  and,  while 
they  fell  asleep,  he  three  times  prayed,  in  an  agony  (q. 
v.)  that  forced  blood-tinged  sweat  from  the  pores  of  his 
forehead,  for  relief  from  the  horror-stricken  anguish  of 
his  soul  [see  Bloody  Sweat],  and  was  partially  re- 
lieved by  an  angelic  message ; hut  Judas,  soon  appear- 
ing with  a force  of  Temple  guards  and  others  whom  he 
conducted  to  this  frequent  place  of  his  Master’s  retire- 
ment, indicated  him  to  them  by  a kiss  (q.  v.);  Jesus 
then  presented  himself  to  them  with  such  a majestic 
mien  as  to  cause  them  to  fall  back  in  dismay,  but  while 
Peter  sought  to  defend  him  by  striking  off  with  his 
sword  the  ear  of  one  of  the  assailants  (which  Jesus  im- 
mediately cured  with  a touch,  at  the  same  time  rebuk- 
ing his  disciple’s  impetuosity),  Jesus,  after  a short  re- 
monstrance upon  the  tumultuous  and  furtive  manner 
of  his  pursuers’  approach,  and  a stipidation  for  his  dis- 
ciples’ security,  suffered  himself  to  be  taken  prisoner, 
with  scarcely  one  of  his  friends  remaining  to  protect 
him  (Matt,  xxvi,  36-50;  John  xviii,  4-9;  Luke  xxii, 
49;  Matt. xxvi,  51-56;  Mark  xiv, 51, 52;  and  parallels). 
See  Betrayal.  He  was  first  led  away  to  the  palace 
of  the  ex-pontiff  Annas,  who,  after  vainly  endeavoring 
to  extract  from  him  some  confession  respecting  himself 
or  his  disciples  (while  Peter,  who,  with  John,  had  fol- 
lowed after,  three  times  denied  any  connection  with  him 
[see  Peter],  when  questioned  by  the  various  servants 
in  the  court-yard,  hut  was  brought  to  pungent  penitence 
by  a look  from  his  Master  within  the  house),  sent  him 
for  further  examination  to  the  acting  high-priest  Cai- 
aphas  (John  xviii,  13-16, 18, 17,  25,  19-23,  26,27  : Luke 
xxii,  61,62;  John  xxiii.  24;  and  parallels).  This  func- 
tionary, assembling  the  Sanhedrim  at  daylight  (Friday, 
March  18,  A.D.  29),  at  length,  with  great  difficulty,  pro- 
cured two  witnesses  who  testified  to  Jesus’s  threat  of 
destroying  the  Temple  (see  John  ii,  19),  but  with  such 
discrepancy  between  themselves  that  Caiaphas  broke  the 
silence  of  Jesus  by  adjuring  him  respecting  his  Messi- 
anic claims,  and  on  his  avowal  of  his  character  made 


JESUS  CHRIST 


897 


JESUS  CHRIST 


Map  of  our  {Saviour’s  Jouruey  ou  the  last  Day  of  his  Life. 
IV. — L L L, 


898 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST 


use  of  this  admission  to  charge  him  with  blasphemy,  to 
which  the  Sanhedrim  present  assented  with  a sentence 
ofdeatli ; the  officers  who  held  Jesus  thereupon  indulged 
in  the  vilest  insults  upon  his  person  (Matt,  xxvi,  57, 59- 
63 ; Luke  xxii,  67-71, 63-65 ; and  parallels).  See  Caia- 
i»has.  After  a formal  vote  of  the  full  Sanhedrim  (q.  v.) 
early  in  the  forenoon,  Jesus  was  next  led  to  the  procu- 
rator Pilate’s  mansion  for  his  legal  sanction  upon  the 
determination  of  the  religious  court,  where  the  hierar- 
chv  sought  to  overcome  his  reluctance  to  involve  him- 
self in  the  matter  (which  was  increased  by  his  exami- 
nation of  Jesus  himself,  who  simply  replied  to  their 
allegations  by  giving  Pilate  to  understand  that  his 
claims  did  not  relate" to  temporal  things)  by  charging 
him  with  sedition,  especially  in  Galilee,  an  intimation 
that  Pilate  seized  upon  to  remand  the  whole  trial  to 
Herod  (who  chanced  to  be  in  Jerusalem  at  the  time), 
as  the  civil  head  of  that  province  (John  xviii,  28-38; 
■Matt,  xxvii,  P2-14 ; Luke  xxiii,  4-7).  Herod,  however, 
on  eagerly  questioning  Jesus,  in  hopes  of  witnessing 
some  display  of  his  miraculous  power,  was  so  enraged  at 
his  absolute  silence  that  he  sent  him  back  to  Pilate  in 
a mock  attire  of  royalty  (Luke  xxiii,  8-12).  The  proc- 
urator, thus  compelled  to  exercise  jurisdiction  over  the 
case,  convinced  of  the  prisoner’s  innocence  (especially 
after  a message  from  his  wife  to  that  effect),  proposed 
to  the  populace  to  release  him  as  the  malefactor  which 
enstom  required  him  to  set  at  liberty  on  the  holiday  of 
the  Passover  (q.  v.) ; but  the  hierarchy  insisted  on  the 
release  of  a notorious  criminal,  Barabbas,  instead,  and 
enforced  Iheir  clamor  for  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus  with 
so  keen  an  insinuation  of  Pilate’s  disloyalty  to  the  em- 
peror, that,  after  varied  efforts  to  exonerate  himself  and 
discharge  the  prisoner  (whose  personal  bearing  enhanced 
his  idea  of  his  character),  he  at  length  yielded  to  their 
demands,  and,  after  allowing  Jesus  to  be  beaten  [see 
Flagellation]  and  otherwise  shamefully  handled  by 
the  soldiers  [see  Mocking],  he  pronounced  sentence  for 
his  execution  on  the  eross  (Luke  xxiii,  13-16;  Matt, 
xv,  17-19,  16,  20-30;  John  xix,  4-16;  and  parallels). 
See  Pilate.  The  traitor  Judas,  perceiving  the  enor- 
mity of  his  crime,  now  that,  in  consequence  of  his  Mas- 
ter’s acquiescence,  there  appeared  no  chance  of  his  es- 
cape, returned  to  the  hierarchy  with  the  bribe,  which, 
on  their  cool  reply  of  indifference  to  his  retraction,  he 
Hung  down  in  the  Temple,  and  went  and  hung  himself 
in  despairing  remorse  (Matt,  xxvii,  3-10).  See  Judas. 
On  his  way  out  of  the  city  to  Golgotha,  where  he  was 
to  be  crucified,  Jesus  fainted  under  the  burden  of  his 
cross,  which  was  therefore  laid  upon  the  shoulders  of 
one  Simon,  who  chanced  to  pass  at  the  time,  and  as 
they  proceeded  Jesus  bade  the  disconsolate  Jewish  fe- 
males attending  him  to  weep  rather  for  themselves  and 
their  nation  than  for  him;  on  reaching  the  place  of  ex- 
ecution [see  Golgotha],  after  refusing  the  usual  nar- 
cotic, he  was  suspended  on  the  cross  between  two  male- 
factors, while  praying  for  his  murderers;  and  a brief 
statement  of  his  offence  (which  the  Jews  in  vain  en- 
deavored to  induce  Pilate  to  change  as  to  phraseology) 
was  placed  above  his  head,  the  executioners  meanwhile 
having  divided  his  garments  among  themselves:  while 
hanging  thus,  Jesus  was  reviled  by  the  spectators,  by 
the  soldiers,  and  even  by  one  of  his  fellow-sufferers 
(whom  the  other  penitently  rebuking,  was  assured  by 
Jesus  of  speedy  salvation  for  himself  [sec  Thief  on  this 
( 'boss]),  and  committed  his  mother  to  the  eare  of  John ; 
then,  at  the  close  of  the  three  hours’  preternatural  dark- 
ness [see  Eclipse],  giving  utterance  (in  the  language 
of  Psa.  xxii)  to  his  agonized  emotions  [see  Sabactha- 
xr  ] amid  the  scoffs  of  his  enemies,  he  ealled  for  some- 
thing to  quench  his  thirst,  which  being  given  him,  he 
expired  with  the  words  of  resignation  to  God  upon  his 
lips,  while  an  earthquake  (q.  v.)  and  the  revivification 
of  the  sleeping  dead  bore  witness  to  his  sacred  charac- 
ter, as  the.  by-standers  [sec  Centurion]  were  foreed  to 
acknowledge  (Matt,  xxvii,  31,  32;  Luke  xxiii,  27-31- 
Mark  xv,  22,  23,  25,  27,  28;  Luke  xxiii,  34;  John  xix, 


19-24;  Matt,  xxvii,  36,  39-43;  Luke  xxiii,  36,  37,  39- 
43;  John  xix,  25-27;  Matt,  xxvii,  45-47,  49 ; John  xix, 
28-30;  Luke  xxiii,  46;  Matt,  xxvii,  51-53;  Luke  xxiii, 
47,  48;  and  parallels).  See  Passion.  Towards  even- 
ing, on  account  of  the  approaching  Sabbath,  the  Jews 
petitioned  Pilate  to  cause  the  crucified  persons  to  be 
killed  by  the  usual  process  of  hastening  their  death  [see 
Crucifixion],  and  their  bodies  removed  from  so  public 
a place;  and  as  the  soldiers  were  executing  this  order, 
they  were  surprised  to  find  Jesus  already  dead ; one  of 
the  soldiers,  however,  tested  the  body  by  plunging  a 
spear  into  the  side,  when  water  mixed  with  clots  of 
blood  issued  from  the  wound  (John  xix,  31-37).  See 
Blood  and  Water.  A rich  Arimathaean,  named  Jo- 
seph (q.  v.),  a secret  believer  in  Jesus,  soon  came  and 
desired  the  body  of  Jesus  for  burial,  and  Pilate,  as  soon 
as  he  had  ascertained  the  actual  death  of  Jesus,  gave 
him  permission;  accordingly,  with  the  help  of  Nicode- 
mus,  he  laid  it  in  his  own  new  vault,  temporarily  wrap- 
ped in  spices,  while  the  female  friends  of  Jesus  observed 
the  place  of  its  sepulture  (Mark  xv,  42-44 ; John  xix, 
38-42;  Luke  xxiii,  25,  26;  and  parallels).  See  Sepul- 
chre. Next  day  (Saturday,  March  19,  A.D.  29)  the 
hierarchy,  remembering  Jesus’s  predictions  of  his  own 
resurrection,  persuaded  Pilate  to  secure  the  entrance  to 
the  tomb  by  a large  stone,  a seal,  and  a guard  [see 
Watch  ] at  the  door  (Matt,  xxvii,  62-66).  The  women, 
meanwhile,  prepared  additional  embalming  materials  in 
the  evening  for  the  body  of  Jesus  (Mark  xvi,  1).  See 
Embalm. 

Very  early  next  morning  (Sunday,  March  20,  A.D. 
29)  Jesus  arose  alive  from  the  tomb  [see  Resurrec- 
tion], which  an  angel  opened,  the  guards  swooning 
away  at  the  sight  (Matt,  xxviii,  2-4,  and  parallel). 
The  women  soon  appeared  on  the  spot  with  the  spices 
for  completing  the  embalming,  but,  discovering  the  stone 
removed  from  the  door,  Mary  Magdalene  hastily  return- 
ed to  tell  Peter,  while  the  rest,  entering,  missed  the  body, 
but  saw  two  angels  at  the  entrance,  who  informed  them 
of  the  resurrection  of  their  Master,  and.  as  they  were  re- 
turning to  inform  the  disciples,  they  met  Jesus  himself; 
but  the  disciples,  oil  their  return,  disbelieved  their  re- 
port (Mark  xxi,  2-4;  John  xx,  2;  Luke  xxiv,  3-8; 
Matt,  xxviii,  7-LO;  Luke  xxiv,  9,  10;  and  parallels). 
The  guard,  however,  had  by  this  time  recovered,  and, 
on  reporting  to  the  hierarchy,  they  were  bribed  to  circu- 
late a story  of  the  abreption  of  the  body  during  their 
sleep  (Matt,  xxxiii,  11-15).  Mary  Magdalene  mean- 
while had  roused  Peter  and  John  with  the  tidings  of  the 
absence  of  the  body,  and,  on  their  hastening  to  the  tomb, 
they  both  observed  the  state  of  things  there,  without 
arriving  at  any  satisfactory  explanation  of  it)  ; but  Ma- 
ry, who  arrived  soon  after  they  had  left,  as  she  stood 
weeping,  saw  a person  of  whom,  mistaking  him  for  the 
keeper  of  the  garden,  she  inquired  for  the  body,  but  was 
soon  made  aware  by  bis  voice  that  it  was  Jesus  himself, 
when  she  fell  at  his  feet,  being  forbidden  a nearer  ap- 
proach, but  bidden  to  announce  his  resurrection  to  the 
disciples  (John  xx,  11-18;  Mark  xvi,  11 ; and  parallels). 
On  the  same  day  Jesus  appeared  to  two  of  the  disciples 
who  were  going  to  Emmans,  and  discourse^  to  them  re- 
specting the  Christology  of  the  Old  Test.,  but  they  did 
not  recognise  him  till  they  were  partaking  the  meal  to 
which,  at  their  journey’s  end,  they  invited  him,  and 
then  they  immediately  returned  with  the  news  to  Jeru- 
salem, where  they  found  that  he  had  in  the  meanwhile 
appeared  also  to  Peter  (Luke  xxiv,  13-33,  and  parallels). 
At  this  moment  Jesus  himself  appeared  in  their  midst, 
and  overcame  their  incredulity  by  showing  them  his 
wounds  and  eating  before  them,  and  then  gave  them 
instructions  respecting  their  apostolical  mission  (Luke 
xxiv,  36-49;  John  xx,  21;  Mark  xvi,  15-18;  John  x, 
4,  22,  23 ; and  parallels).  Thomas,  who  had  been  absent 
from  this  interview,  and  therefore  refused  t<»  believe  his 
associates’  report,  was  also  convinced,  at  the  next  ap- 
pearance of  Jesus  a week  afterwards  (Sunday  evening, 
March  27,  A.D.  29),  by  handling  him  personally  (John 


JESUS  CUEIST 


899 


JESUS  CHRIST 


Xx,  24-20).  Some  time  afterwards  (prob.  Wednesday, 
March  80,  A.D.  29)  Jesus  again  appeared  to  liis  disciples 
on  the  shore  of  the  Sea  of  Tiberias,  as  they  were  fishing ; 
and,  after  they  had  taken  a preternatural  quantity  of 
fish  at  his  direction,  coming  ashore,  they  partook  of  a 
meal  which  he  had  prepared,  alter  which  he  tenderly 
reproved  Peter  for  his  unfaithfulness,  and  intimated  to 
him  his  future  martyrdom  (Matt,  xxviii,  1G;  John  xxi, 
1-23).  Soon  afterwards  (probably  Thursday,  March  31, 
A.L).  29)  he  appeared  to  some  five  hundred  of  his  disci- 
ples (l  Cor.  xv,  G)  at  an  appointed  meeting  on  a moun- 
tain in  Galilee,  where  he  commissioned  his  apostles 
afresh  to  their  work  (Matt,  xxviii,  1G-20).  Next  he 
appeared  to  James  (1  Cor.  xv,  7),  and  finally  to  all  the 
apostles  together  [see  Aiu’earance  (of  risen  Christ)], 
to  whom,  at  the  end  of  forty  days  from  his  passion 
(Thursday,  April  28,  A.D.  29),  he  now  gave  a general 
charge  relative  to  their  mission  [see  Apostle],  and, 
leading  them  towards  Bethany,  while  blessing  them  he 
was  suddenly  carried  up  bodily  into  the  sky  [see  Ascen- 
sion] and  enfolded  from  their  sight  in  a cloud  [sec  In- 
tercession], angels  at  the  same  time  appearing  and 
declaring  to  them,  in  their  astonishment,  his  future  re- 
turn in  a similar  manner  (Acts  i,  2-12,  and  parallels). 
(For  a fuller  explanation  of  the  details  of  the  foregoing 
narrative,  see  Strong’s  Harmony  and  Exposition  of  the 
Gospels,  N.  Y.,  1852.)  See  Gospels. 

IV.  Literature. — Much  of  this  has  been  cited  under 
the  foregoing  heads.  We  present  here  a general  sum- 
mary. 

1.  The  efforts  to  produce  a biography  of  the  Saviour 
of  mankind  may  be  said  to  have  begun  with  the  at- 
tempts to  combine  and  harmonize  the  statements  of  the 
evangelists  (see  llase,  Leben  Jesu,  p.  20).  See  Harmo- 
nies. The  early  Church  contented  itself  simply  with 
collating  the  narratives  of  the  different  apostles  and  an 
occasional  comment  on  some  passages.  See  Monotes- 
saron.  Tn  the  Middle  Ages,  as  also  later  in  the  lloman 
Catholic  Church,  the  works  written  on  the  life  of  Christ 
were  uncritical,  fantastic,  and  fiction-like,  being  mere 
religious  tracts  (llase,  p.  2G).  Even  after  the  Informa- 
tion had  given  rise  to  speculation  and  religious  theory, 
the  works  on  the  life  of  Christ  continued  to  be  of  a like 
character.  It  was  not  till  near  the  close  of  the  18th 
century,  when  the  Wolfenbiittel  Fragmentists  had  at- 
tacked Christianity  [sec  Lessing],  that,  the  Apologists 
felt  themselves  constrained  to  treat  the  history  of  Christ 
in  his  twofold  nature,  as  God  and  also  as  man.  This 
period  was  therefore  the  first  in  which  the  life  of  Christ 
was  treated  in  a critical  and  pragmatical  manner  (comp. 
Strauss,  Leben  Jesu , 18G4,  p.  1).  Soon,  however,  these 
efforts  degenerated  into  humanitarianism,  and  even  pro- 
fanity. Herder,  the  great  German  poet  and  theologian, 
wrote  distinct  treatises  on  the  life  of  “the  Son  of  God” 
and  on  the  life  of  “the  Son  of  man.”  Some  treated  of 
the  prophet  of  Nazareth  (Bahrdt,Venturini ; later  Langs- 
dorf) ; others  even  instituted  comparisons  with  men  like 
Socrates,  oftentimes  drawing  the  parallel  in  favor  rather 
of  the  latter.  Others  (Paulus,  Greiling),  in  order  to 
suit  the  tendency  of  the  age,  hesitated  not  to  strip  the 
life  of  Christ  of  all  the  miraculous,  and  painted  him 
simply  as  the  humane  and  wise  teacher.  Such  a theo- 
ry was,  of  course,  “the  reductio  ad absurdum  of  a ration- 
alism pure  and  simple”  (compare  Humptre,  Christ  and 
Christendom,  Boyle  Leet.  186G,  p.  329).  The  more  mod- 
ern theology  (we  refer  here  mainly  to  German  theology 
since  Schleiermaeher)  attempted  to  crowd  forward  the 
ideal.  Thus  llase  proposed  for  his  task  the  treatment 
“how  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  according  to  divine  predesti- 
nation, by  the  free  exercise  of  liis  own  mind,  and  by  the 
will  of  his  age,  had  become  the  Saviour  of  the  world.” 

A still  more  destructive  attitude  (comp.  Lange,  I,  x 
sq.)  was  assumed  by  Strauss,  who,  while  not  denying 
that  Jesus  had  lived,  yet  recognised  in  the  accounts 
of  the  gospels  simply  a mythical  retlex  of  what  the 
young  Christian  society  had  invented  to  connect  with 
the  prophetical  announcements  of  the  old  covenant, 


though,  of  course,  he  added  that  it  had  been  done  urn 
consciously  and  thoughtlessly.  Thus  the  (poetieo-spec- 
ulative)  truth  of  the  ideal  Christ  was  to  be  maintained, 
but  it  soon  vanished  in  the  clouds  like  a mist.  In  a 
modified  form  this  mythical  theory  was  advocated  by 
Wcisse,  who,  like  others  before  him,  endeavored  to  solve 
the  miraculous  in  the  life  of  Christ  by  the  introduction 
of  higher  biology  (magnetism,  etc.),  and  used  Strauss’s 
hypotheses  in  order  to  dispose  of  whatever  he  found 
impracticable  in  his  own  view.  The  Tubingen  theolo- 
gian, Bruno  Bauer  (Kritik.  der  evangel.  Gesch.  vol.  iii), 
went  further,  and  declaring  that  he  could  not  see  in 
the  accounts  of  the  apostles  a harmless  poesy,  branded 
them  as  downright  imposture.  A much  more  moderate 
position  was  taken  by  one  who  utterly  disbelieved  the 
fulfilment  of  the  prophecies,  Salvador  the  Jew.  lie  ac- 
knowledged the  historical  personality  of  Jesus,  though 
the  Saviour,  in  his  treatment,  came  to  be  nothing  but  a 
Jewish  reformer  (and,  of  course,  a demagogue  also). 

It  must  be  acknowledged,  however,  that  these  criti- 
cisms provoked  a more  thorough  study  of  the  subject, 
and  that  orthodox  Christianity  is  therefore  in  no  small 
measure  indebted  to  German  rationalism  for  the  great 
interest  which  has  since  been  manifested  in  the  history 
of  our  Lord.  The  rationalistic  works  called  forth  innu- 
merable critiques  and  rejoinders  (most  prominent  among 
which  were  those  of  W.  Iloffmann,  Stuttg.  1838  sq. ; 
Hengstenbcrg,  in  the  Evangel.  Kirchenzeituug,  183G; 
Sehweizer,  in  the  Stud.  u.  Krit.  1837,  No.  iii;  Tholuck, 
Hamburg,  1838 ; Ullmann,  llamb.  1838) ; and  finally  re- 
sulted in  the  publication  of  a vast  number  of  produc- 
tions on  the  life  of  Jesus. 

We  call  attention,  likewise,  to  the  efforts  of  the  Dutch 
theologians,  among  whom  are  Meijboom  (Groning.  18G 1 ), 
Van  Osterzee,  and  others.  A new  treatment  of  the  sub- 
ject was  promised  by  the  late  chevalier  Bunsen  (Preface 
to  his  Hippolytus,  p.  xlix)  but  it  never  made  its  appear- 
ance. Ewald,  however,  continued  his  work  on  the  Jew's 
(Gesch.  d.  Volkes  Israel),  closing  in  a fifth  volume  with 
the  life  of  Christ  ( Leben  Christus).  The  author  evi- 
dently is  a non-believer  in  our  Lord’s  godhead  (compare 
Liddon,  Bampt.  Lecture,  18GG,  p.  505).  ITis  method  of 
dealing  with  the  subject  has  something  of  the  same  in- 
definiteness  which  characterized  the  work  of  Sehleier- 
macher  (compare  Plumptre,  Boyle  Lecture,  18GG,  p.  336). 
Ewald  views  Jesus  “as  the  fulfilment  of  the  O.  T.— as 
the  final,  highest,  fvdlest,  clearest  revelation  of  God — as 
the  true  Messiah,  who  satisfies  all  right  longing  for  God 
and  for  deliverance  from  the  curse — as  the  eternal  King 
of  the  kingdom  of  God.  But  with  all  this,  and  while 
he  depicts  our  Lord’s  person  and  work,  in  its  love,  activ- 
ity, and  majesty,  with  a beauty  that  is  not  often  met 
with,  there  is  but  one  nature  accorded  to  this  perfect 
Person,  and  that  nature  is  human.”  Of  a very  different 
character  from  all  these  wrorks  are  the  lectures  of  Prof. 
C.  J.  Riggenbach,  of  Basle,  who  presents  us  the  picture 
of  our  Lord  from  a harmonistico-apologetic  point  of  view. 

Here  deserve  mention  also  the  labors  of  Neander,  who, 
“in  the  conviction,  which  runs  through  his  Church  His- 
tory, that  Christendom  rests  upon  the  personality  of 
Christ,”  was  not  a little  alarmed  by  the  production  of 
Strauss,  and  “ with  fear  and  trembling,  feeling  that  con- 
troversy w'as  a duty,  and  yet  also  that  it  marred  the  de- 
votion of  spirit  in  which  alone  the  life  of  his  Lord  and 
Master  could  be  contemplated  rightly,”  entered  the  lists 
against  rationalistic  combatants.  II  is  excellent  wfork 
has  found  a -worthy  translator  in  the  late  Rev.  Dr. 
M'Clintoek.  TVe  pass  over  men  like  llare,  “who  re- 
produce more  or  less  the  rationalism  of  Paulus”  (perhaps 
the  first  conspicuous  work  of  the  rationalistic  Germans, 
though  it  failed  to  awraken  the  general  interest  that 
Strauss’s  work  did  ; comp.  Plumptre,  Boyle  Leet.  1866,  p. 
329) ; others  also,  who,  like  Ebrard  anil  Lange,  “avow- 
edly assume  the  position  of  apologists,  though  their 
works  are  at  least  evidence  (as  are  bishop  Ellioott’s  Ilnl- 
sean  Leet.,  and  the  many  elaborate  commentaries  on  the 
Gospels  in  our  country  and  abroad)  that  orthodox  theo- 


JESUS  CHRIST 


JESUS  CHRIST  900 


logians  do  not  shrink  from  the  field  of  inquiry  thus 
opened.” 

A time  of  quiet  and  rest  seemed  now  to  have  dawned 
upon  this  polemical  field  of  Christian  theology,  when 
suddenly,  in  1«G3,  the  learned  Frenchman  Kenan  ap- 
peared with  his  1 Ye  de  Jesus , and  stirred  anew  the  spir- 
its, as  Strauss  had  done  thirty  years  before.  Most  ar- 
bitrarily did  Mr.  Kenan  deal  with  the  data  upon  which 
his  work  professed  to  be  based ; while  theologically  he 
proceeded  throughout  “on  a really  atheistic  assumption, 
disguised  beneath  the  veil  of  a pantheistic  phraseology. 
...  It  is,  however,  when  we  look  at  the  lYe  de  Jesus 
from  a moral  point  of  view  that  its  shortcomings  arc 
most  apparent  in  their  length  and  breadth.  Its  hero 
is  a fanatical  impostor,  who  pretends  to  be  and  to  do 
that  which  he  knows  to  be  beyond  him,  but  who,  never- 
theless, is  held  up  to  onr  admiration  as  the  ideal  of  hu- 
manity” (Liddon,  p.  500).  It  is  sufficient  to  reply  to 
this  caricature  by  Mr.  Kenan  that,  “ If  this  be  the  found- 
er of  Christianity,  and  if  Christianity  be  the  right  be- 
lief, then  all  religion  must  cease  from  the  earth ; for  not 
only  is  this  character  unfit  to  sustain  Christianity,  but 
it. is  unfit  to  sustain  any  religion;  it  wants  the  bond" 
(Lange,  I,  xviii).  Yet  “it  may  be  that  to  the  thou- 
sands whose  thoughts  have  either  rested  in  the  symbols 
of  the  infancy  and  the  death  which  the  cidtus  of  the 
Latin  Church  brings  so  prominently  before  them,  or 
who,  having  rejected  these,  have  accepted  nothing  in 
their  place,  the  Vie  de  Jesus  has  given  a sense  of  human 
reality  to  the  Gospel  history  which  they  never  knew 
before,  and  led  them  to  study  it  with  a more  devout 
sympathy”  (Plumptre,  p.  337).  Conntless  editions  and 
translations  were  made  of  the  work,  and  it  was  read 
everywhere  with  as  much  interest  as  if  it  had  been  sim- 
ply a work  of  fiction;  indeed  German  theologians,  even 
the  nationalists,  hesitated  not  to  rank  it  among  French 
novels.  Innumerable  are  the  works  which  were  writ- 
ten against  and  in  defence  of  this  legendary  hypothesis. 
In  Germany,  especially,  the  contest  raged  fiercely,  and 
for  a time  it  seemed  as  if  the  materialistic  Frenchman 
was  to  uproot  all  Christian  feelings  in  the  hearts  of  the 
common  people  of  Germany,  when  Strauss  suddenly 
reappeared  on  the  stage  in  behalf  of  his  mythical  the- 
ory with  a new  edition  of  his  Leben  Jesu,  this  time 
prepared  for  the  tcants  of  the  German  people , “ and  the 
new  work,  more  popular  in  form,  more  caustic  and  sneer- 
ing in  its  hostility,  has  been  read  as  widely  as  the  old. 
. . . Mustering  all  old  objections  and  starting  anew,  he 
seeks  to  prove  that  the  first  three  gospels  contradict 
each  other  and  the  fourth.  Without  entering  into  the 
more  elaborate  theories  as  to  their  origin  and  their  re- 
lation to  the  several  parties  and  sects  in  early  Christen- 
dom, as  Kaur  did  afterwards,  he  has  a general  theory 
which  accounts  for  them.  Men’s  hopes  and  wishes, 
their  reverence  and  awe,  tend  at  all  times  to  develop 
themselves  into  myths.  . . . The  myths  were  not  ‘cun- 
ningly devised,’  but  were  the  spontaneous,  unconscious 
growth  of  the  time  in  which  they  first  appeared.  If 
men  asked  what,  then,  was  left  them  to  believe  in— what 
was  the  idea  which  had  thus  developed  itself  through 
what  had  been  worked  on  as  the  facts  of  Christianity, 
the  answer  was  that  God  manifested  himself,  not  in 
Christ,  but  in  humanity  at  large — humanity  is  the  union 
of  the  two  natures,  the  finite  and  the  infinite,  the  child 
of  the  visible  mother  and  the  invisible  father.  . . . The 
outcry  against  the  book  was,  as  might  be  expected, 
enormous.  It  opened  the  eyes  of  those  who  had  dallied 
with  unbelief  to  see  that  they  were  naked,  and  it  strip- 
ped off  the  fig-leaf  covering  of  words  and  phrases  with 
which  they  had  sought  to  hide  their  nakedness.  What 
was  offered  as  the  compensation  for  all  this  work  of  de- 
struction, if  it  were  offered  in  any  other  spirit  than  that 
of  the  mockery  even  then,  and  yet  more  now,  so  charac- 
teristic of  the  author,  was  hardly  enough  to  give  warmth 
and  shelter  to  any  human  soul”  (Plumptre,  p.  334). 
The  ablest  among  Christian  divines  and  scholars  came 
forward  to  refute  the  naked  falsehoods,  and  up  to  our  day 


the  contest  rages,  nor  can  it  be  said  how  soon  it  will  be 
ended ; it  is  certain,  however,  that  orthodox  Christianity 
is  daily  gaining  ground,  even  in  the  very  core  of  the 
heart  of  Rationalism.  In  France  it  drew  forth  the  able 
work  of  Pressense,  Jesus  Christ  son  Temps,  sa  Vie  son 
GZuvre  (Paris,  1865),  which  has  since  appeared  in  an 
English  dress  in  this  country.  In  England,  Ecce  Ilomo , 
a survey  of  the  life  and  work  of  Jesus  Christ  (London, 
1866),  was  a response  to  French  and  German  Rational- 
ists, in  so  far  as  the  reality  of  our  Saviour’s  human  ca- 
reer is  concerned.  (See  above,  11,3.) 

Great  service  has  also  been  done  for  the  truth  by  the 
productions  of  Weiss  ( Seeks  Vortrage  iiber  die  Person 
Jesu  Christi , Ingolst.  1864),  Liddon  ( Hampton  Lecture, 
1866;  see  Christian  Remembrancer,  Jan.  1868,  article  vi), 
and  particvdarly  by  Eow  (London,  1868;  N.Y.  1871 ; see 
Princeton  Rev.  1810,  art.  v),  Plumptre  ( Boyle  Led.  1866), 
R.  Payne  Smith  ( Bampton  Lecture,  1869),  Leaf  lies,  1 1 Tit- 
ness  of  St.  John  to  Christ  {Boyle  Led.  1870),  Andrews,  and 
llanna.  Several  popular  treatises  on  the  subject  were 
also  produced  in  Germany,  England,  and-America,  among 
which  are  those  of  Abbott  and  Eddy.  Henry  Ward 
Beecher  has  just  published  vol.  i of  a similar  work. 

2.  The  following  is  a list  of  the  most  important  of  the 
very  numerous  works  relating  to  the  person  and  history 
of  Christ,  of  which  Germany  has  been  especially  fruitful 
(comp.  Walch,  iii,  404;  Ilase,  p.  28,  37,  41;  Andrews, 
Preface). 

(1.)  Of  a general  character  are  treatises  by  the  fol- 
lowing authors,  respecting  the  proper  method  of  inves- 
tigating the  career  of  Christ : Doderlein  (Jena,  1783  sq.), 
Sender  (Ilal.  1786),  Eberhard  (Hal.  1787),  Albers  (Gbtt. 
1793),  Ammon  (Gbtt.  1794),  Briiggeman  (Gbtt.  1795), 
Stuckert  (Francfort,  1797),  Muller  (Stuttg.  1785),  Piper 
(Gbtt.  1835),  Sextroh  (Gbtt.  1785),  Peterson  (Liib.1838), 
Scholten  (Traj.  1840),  Wiggers  (Rost.  1837).  On  pro- 
fane and  apocryphal  materials:  Kbcher  (Jena,  1726), 
Meyer  (ITamb.  1805),  Augusti  (Jena,  1799), Huldric  (L.  B. 
1705),  Werner  (Stad.  1781).  Diatessura  of  the  Gospel 
history  have  been  composed  by  the  following:  J.  F. 
Bahrdt  (Lpz.  1772),  Boos  (Tubingen,  1776),  Mutschelle 
(Mllnch.  1784),  C.  F.  Bahrdt  (Beri.  1787),  Bergen  (Gies- 
sen, 1789  sq.), White  (Oxon.  1800),  Keller  (Stuttg.  1802), 
Horn  (Niirnburg,  1803),  Sebastiani  (Lpzg.  1806),  Hum- 
mer (Wien,  1807),  Langsdorf  (Mannheim,  1830),  KUchler 
(Lips.  1835),  and  others.  See  Harmonies. 

Discussions  on  the  life  of  Jesus,  in  a more  historical 
form,  of  a hostile  character,  are  by  the  following : Reimar 
(Braunschweig,  1778  sq.),C.F.  Bahrdt  (Halle,  1782;  Berl. 
1784  sq.),  J.  G.  Selndthess  (Ziir.  1783),Yenturiui  (Kopcn. 
1800),  Langsdorf  (Mannh.  1831),  D.  F.  Strauss  (Tubing. 
1835, 1837, 1838  [the  work  which  provoked  the  innumer- 
able critiques  and  rejoinders,  as  above  stated],  Sack 
(Bonn,  1836),Theile  (Lpzg.  1832),  Hahn  (Leipzig,  1839). 

Of  an  apologetic  character  [besides  those  in  express 
opposition  to  Strauss]  are  the  following:  Keinhard  (Wit- 
tenberg, 1781 ; 5th  edition,  with  additions  by  Heubner, 
1830),  Iless  (Zurich,  1774,  rewritten  1823),  Yermehren 
(Halle,  1799),  Opitz  (Zcrbst,  1812),  Planck  (Gbtt.  1818), 
Bodent  [Rom.  Catli.]  (Gerniind.  1818  sq.),  Panins  (Hci- 
dclb.  1828),  J.  Selndthess  (Zurich,  1830),  Hase  (Lpzg. 
1829, 1835),  Neander  (1  Iamb.  1837;  translated  by  M’CIin- 
tock  and  Blumentlial,  N.  Y.  1840),  Kleuker  (Brem.  1776; 
LTlm.  1793),  Basedow  (Lpz.  1784),  Wizemnan  (Lpz.  1780), 
Herder  (Riga,  1796),  Hacker  (Leipzig,  1801-3),  Schoreli 
(Lpzg.  1841),  Kolthoff  (Ilafn.  1852),  Hofmann  (Leipzig, 
1852),  Keim  (Ziir.  1861, 1864),  Wisenmann  (1864),  Weiss 
(Ingolst.  1864).  See  Rationalism. 

Among  those  of  a more  practical  character  are  the 
following:  Walch  (Jena.  1740),  Hilniber  (Frankf.  1763), 
lloppenstedt  (Ilannov.  1784  sq.),  Hunter  (Loud.  1785), 
Fleetwood  (Lond.),  Cramer  (Lpz.  1787),  Marx  (Munster, 
1789, 1830),  Gosner  (Leipzig,  1797;  Zurich,  1818),  Sinte- 
nis  (Zcrbst,  1800),  Meister  (Basel,  1802),  Reiehenberger 
(Wien,  1793,  1826),  Gerhard  and  Muller  (Erfurt,  1801), 
Bauriegel  (Neustadt,  1801, 1821),  Greiling  (Halle,  1813), 
Jacobi  (Gotha,  1817 ; Senders.  1819),  Pflaum  (Niirnburg, 


JESUS  CHRIST 


901  JESUS  CHRIST,  ORDERS  OF 


1819),  Ammon  (Lpzg.  1842-7,  3 vols.),  Muller  (Berlin, 
1819, 1821),  Schmidt  (Wien,  1822, 1826),  Francke  (Bresl. 
1823,  Lpzg.  1838, 1842),  Buchfelncr  (blanch.  182G),  Ne- 
vels  (Aachen,  182G),  Stephani  (Magdeb.  1830),  Onymus 
(Snlzb.  1831),  Blunt  (London,  1835),  Hartmann  (Stuttg, 
1837),  Weisse  (Lpzg.  1838),  Kuhn  (Mainz,  1838),  Lelir- 
reicli  (Quedl.  1840),  Ilirsclier  (Ttibing.  1839),  Wiirkerts 
(Meiss.  1840),  Hug  (1840),  Kranc  (Cass.  1850),  Lichten- 
stein (Erl.  I855),Rougemont  (Paris  and  Lausanne,  185G), 
J.  Bucher  (Stuttgard,  1859),  Krunimaclier  (Biclf.  1854), 
Baumgarten  (Brunsw.  1859),Uhlhorn  (llamb.  1866;Bost. 
18G8),  Ellieott  (London,  1859),  Andrews  (N.  Y.  18G2). 

Among  those  pictoriallv  illustrated  are  the  works  of 
Schleich  (Munch.  1821),  Langer  (Stuttgart,  1823),  Kitto 
(Loud.  1847),  Abbott  (N.  Y.  18G4),  Crosby  (N.  Y.  1871). 

Among  those  of  a poetical  character  are  Juveneus, 
ed.  Arevalus  (Rom.  1792), Vida  (L.  B.  15G6,  cd.  Midler; 
Hamb.  1811),  Wilmsen  (Berlin,  1816,  182G),  Gittermann 
(Hannov.  1821),  Schincke  (Hal.  182G),  Klopstock  (Hal. 
1751,  and  often),  Lavater  (Winterth.1783).  Halem  (llan- 
nov.  I8]0),  Weihe  (Elberf.  1822,  1824).  Wilmy  (Sulzb. 
1825),  lvirsch  (Lpz.  1825),  Gopp  (Lpz.  1827). 

(2.)  Of  a more  special  nature  are  treatises  on  particu- 
lar portions  of  Christ’s  outward  history  or  circumstances, 
e.  g.  his  relatives:  Walther  (Berl.  1791),  Oertel  (Germ. 
1792),  Hasse  (Regiom.  1792;  Berl.  1794),  Ludcwig  (Wolf- 
enb.  1831),  Tiliander  (Upsal.  1772),  Gevcr  (Viteb.  1777), 
Blom  (L.  Bat.  1839),  Oostcrzce  (Traj.  a.  R.  1840);  ami 
his  country:  Konigsman  (Slesvic.  1807).  Among  those 
on  his  birth : Korb  (Lpz.  1831),  Meerheim  (Viteb.  1785), 
Keimer  (Lnbec,  1653).  Getter  (Numb.  1774);  and  in  a 
chronological  point  of  view,  among  others : Masson 
(Roterd.  1700),  Mains  (Kilon.  1708;  id.  1722),  Ileinec- 
cius  (Ilal.  1708),  Liebknecht  (Giess.  1735),  Hager  (Chem- 
nit.  1743),  Mann  (Loud.  1752),  Jost  (Wirceb.  1754),  Ilai- 
den  (Prague,  1759),  Reccared  (Regiom.  17G8;  id.  17G6), 
Horix  (Mogunt.  1789),  Sanelemcnte  (Rome,  1795),  Mi- 
ehaelis  (Wien,  1797),  Miiiiter  (Ivopenh.  1827),  Fcldholf 
(Fraukf.  1832),  Mayer  (Gryph.  1701),  llardt  (Helmstadt, 
1754),  Korner  (Lipsia?,  1778),  Mynster  (Ivopenh.  1837), 
Huschke  (Bresl.  1810),  Caspari  (Hamb.  1869);  compare 
Stud.  u.  Krit.  1870,  ii,  357  ; 1871,  ii;  Baptist  Quarterly, 
1871,  p.  113  sq.;  and  see  Zumpt,  Das  Geburtsjahr  Christi 
(Leipzig,  1869).  On  his  infancy,  education,  etc. : Nie- 
meyer  (Halle,  1790),  Ammon  (Gutting.  1798),  Schubert 
(Gryph.  1813),  Carpzov  (llelmst.  1771),Weise  (Helmst. 
1798),  Lange  (Aid.  1G99),  Arnold  (Regiom.  1730),  Rau 
(Erl.  179G),  Bandelin  (Liib.  1809).  On  the  duration  of 
his  ministry:  Chrysander  (Brunsw.  1750),  Pisanski  (Re- 
giom. 1778),  Loeber  (Altcnb.  17G7),  Korner  (Lips.  1779), 
Priestley  (Birmingham,  1780),  Newcome  (Dublin,  1780), 
Priess  (Rost.  1789),  Hanlein  (Erlang.  1796).  See  Apos- 
tle. On  his  baptism,  see  John  the  Baptist.  On  his 
travels : Schmidt  (Ilmenau,  1833 ; Paris,  1837).  On  his 
celibacy : Xiedner  (Schneeberg,  1815).  On  his  teaching : 
Tschucke  (Lipsia?,  1781),  Balirdt  (Berlin,  178G),  Mander- 
baeli  (Elberf.  1813),  Martini  (Rost.  1794),  Stier  (Leipzig, 
1853  sq. ; Edinb.  185G  sip).  See  Sermon  on  the  Mount. 
On  his  alleged  writings:  Ittig  (Lipsia?,  1G9G),  Epistola 
apocrypha  J.  C.  ad  Petrum  (Rom.  1774),  Sartorius  (Ba- 
sil. 1817),  Gieseke  (Liinenb.  1822),  Witting  (Braunschw. 
1823).  SeeAnoAR.  On  his  miracles  (q.v.) : Ileumann 
(Gbtt.  1747),  Pfaff  (Tubingen,  1752),  Pauli  (Riga,  1773), 
Trench  (Loud.  1848;  N.  Y.  1850).  On  his  transfigura- 
tion (q.v.) : Reusmann  (Gutting.  1747),  Georgi  (Viteb. 
1744),  anonymous  Essay  (Loml.  1788),  Ilaubold  (Gott. 
1791),  Eger  (1794),  Rau  (Erl.  1797) ; and  his  white  gar- 
ment, Franke  (Lips.  1672),  Sagittarius  (Jena,  1673  ).  On 
his  temptation  (q.v.):  Baumgarten  (Halle,  1755),  De 
Saga  (Gott.  1757),  Farmer  (London,  1671),  Sauer  (Bonn, 
1789),  Postius  (Zweibr.  1791),  Ziegenhagen  (Franckfort, 
1791),  Domey  (Upsal.  1792),  Schittze  (llamb.  1793),  Dahl 
(Upsal.  1800),  Bertholdt  (Erl.  1812),  Gelleriehts  (Altenb. 
1815),  Richter  (Viteb.  1825),  Sehweizcr  (Zurich,  1833), 
Ewald  (Bayreuth,  1833) ; comp,  the  Zeitschr.f  u'issensch. 
Theol.  1870, p.  188  sq.  On  his  passion  (q.v.) : Iken  (Brem. 
1743;  Tr.  a.  R.  1758),  Baumgarten  (Halle,  1757),  Glanz 


(Stuttg.  1809),  Henneberg  (Lpzg.  1823),  Schlcgel  (Lpzg. 
1775),Mosche  (Franckfort,  1785),  Ewald  (Lcmgo,  1785), 
Fischer  (Lpzg.  1794),  Kindervatcr  (Lpzg.  1797 ),  M osier 
(Kisenb.  1816),  Krummacher  (Berl.  1817),  Jongh  (Tr.  a. 
R.  1827),  Adriani  (Tr.  a.  R.  1827),  Walther  (Bresl.  1738; 
Lpzg.  1777).  On  his  crucifixion  (q.v.):  Schmidtman 
(Osnabr.  1830),  Neubig  (Erl.  1836),  Ilasert  (Berl.  1839), 
Karig  (Lpzg.  1842),  Stroud  (Loud.  1847).  Sec  Agony  : 
Atonement.  On  his  words  upon  the  cross:  Ildpncr 
(Lips.  1641),  Dankauer  (Arg.  1641),  Luger  (Jena,  1739), 
Scharf  (Viteb.  1677),  Niemann  (Jena,  1671),  Lokerwitz 
(Viteb.  1680).  On  his  burial:  Te  Water  [i.  c.Wcsscl- 
ing]  (Traj.  a.  Rh.  1761).  Sec  Calvary.  On  his  res- 
urrection (q.v.):  among  others,  Buttstedt  (Germ,  1749), 
Sherlock  (London,  1751),  Seidel  (Helmst.  1758),  Weiekh- 
mann  (Viteb.  1767),  Burkitt  (Meining.  1774),  Rehkopf 
(Helmstadt,  1775),  Liiderwald  (Helmst.  1778),  Less  (Gbtt. 
1779),  Scheibel  (Frankf.  1779),  Mosche  (Frankf.  1779), 
Sender  (Halle,  1780),  Moldenhauer  (Hamb.  1779),  Velt- 
liusen  (Helmst.  1780),  Pfeiffer  (Erlang.  1779, 1787),  Mi- 
chaclis  (Hal.  1783).  Schmid  (Jena,  1784),  Plessing  (Hal. 
1788),  Volkmar  (Bresl.  1786),  Henneberg  (Lpzg.  1826), 
Frege  (llamb.  1833),  Griesbach  (Jena,  1784),  Niemeyer 
(Hal.  1824),  Roscnmiiller  (Erlang.  1780),  Paulus  (Jena, 
1795),  Pisansky  (Regiom.  1782),  Zeibich  (Gene,  1784), 
Rusmeyer  (Gryph.  1734),  Feuerlein  (Gbtt.  1752),  Gut- 
schmidt  (Halle,  1753),Miiller  (Hafn.  1836).  On  his  as- 
cension (q.v.),  among  others:  Griesbach  (Jena,  1793), 
Seiler  (Erlang.  1798, 1803),  Ammon  (Gbtt.  1800),  Otter- 
bein  (Duisb.  1802),  Fliigge  (Argent.  181  l),Weichert  (Vi- 
teb. 1811),  Fogtmann  (Havn.  1826),  Hanna,  The  Forty 
Days  after  our  Lord's  Resurrection  (London,  1863). 

The  following  are  some  of  the  treatises  on  th  e personal 
traits  of  Jesus,  e.  g.  his  physical  constitution:  Weber 
(Hal.  1825),  Engelmann  (Lpz.  1834),  Gieseler  (Gutting. 
1837).  On  his  dress:  Zeibich  (Witt.  1754),  Gerberon 
(Par.  1677).  His  language:  Reiske  (Jena,  1670),  Kla?- 
den  (Viteb.  1739),  Diodati  (Neapol.  1767),  Pfannkuche 
(in  Eichhorn’s  Ally.  Bill,  vii,  365-480;,  Wiseman  (in  his 
/lor.  Syr.  Rome,  1828),  Zeibich  (Viteb.  1791),  Paulus 
(Jena,  1803).  On  his  mode  of  life : Lunze  (Lips.  1784), 
Rau  (Erl.  1787, 1796),  Jacobieus  (Hafn.  1703),  Schreiber 
(Jena,  1743),Tragard  (Gryph.  1781).  On  his  intercourse 
with  others:  Gesenius  (Helmstadt,  1734),  Jetze  (Liegn. 
1792).  Respecting  the  inner  nature  of  his  character, 
the  following  may  be  named,  e.  g.  on  his  (human)  dis- 
position and  temperament:  Woytt  (Jena,  1753),  Buck- 
ing (Stcndal.  1793),  Schinmaier  (Flensb.  1774  sq.),  Wink- 
ler (Lpz.  1826),  Dorner  (Stuttg.  1839);  on  his  psychol- 
ogy, see  the  Biblioth.  Sacra,  April,  1870.  On  his  sinless- 
ness, among  others : Walther  (Viteb.  1690),  Baumgarten 
(Hal.  1740),  Erbstein  (Meiss.  1787),  Weber  (Viteb.  1796), 
Ewald  (Hannov.  1798;  Gene,  1799),  Ullmann  (Hamburg, 
1833,  translated  in  Clark’s  Biblical  Cabinet,  Edinburgh), 
Fritzsche  (Halle,  1835).  See  Messiah. 

Jesus  Christ,  Orders  of.  These  were  formed 
of  temporal  knights  in  the  countries  paying  homage  to 
the  Roman  see  for  the  protection  and  promotion  of  the 
Roman  Catholic  religion. 

I.  Such  was  the  order  founded  under  this  name,  also 
known  as  the  Order  of  Dobrin,  in  1213,  by  duke  Conrad 
of  Masovia  and  Kujavia,  Poland.  They  followed  the 
rules  of  St.  Augustine  as  a religious  society,  and  their 
aim  was  to  counteract  the  influences  of  the  heathenish 
Prussians,  their  western  neighbors.  Their  stronghold 
was  the  burgh  of  Dobrin,  in  Prussia.  The  insignia  and 
dress  of  the  order  were  a white  mantle,  on  the  left  breast 
a red  sword,  and  a five-pointed  red  star.  The  order  was 
merged  into  the  German  order  in  1234. 

II.  In  Spain  such  an  order  was  founded  in  1216  by 
Dominicus.  The  knights  bound  themselves  to  practise 
monastic  duties,  and  to  battle  in  defence  of  their  Church. 
It  was  approved  by  pope  Honorius  III,  and  confirmed, 
under  various  names,  by  different  popes.  When  Pius 
V founded  the  congregation  of  St.  Peter  the  Martyr  at 
Rome,  composed  of  the  cardinals,  grand  inquisitors,  and 
other  dignitaries  of  the  Holy  Office,  this  order  was 


JETIIER 


JESUS.  CONGREGATION  OF  902 


merged  into  it.  In  1815  king  Ferdinand  II  command- 
ed the  members  of  the  luquisitioii  to  wear  the  insignia 
of  the  order. 

III.  Another  of  like  name  was  started  in  Portugal  in 
1317  bv  king  Dionysius  of  Portugal,  in  concert  with 
pope  John  XXII,  and  was  composed  of  the  knights  of 
the  former  Knights  Templars  (q.  v.).  See  Christ,  Or- 
der of,  vol.  ii,  p.  2G8. 

IV.  Another  of  this  class  was  the  Order  of  Jesus  and 
J/ary,  and  was  founded  in  1643byEudes  (q.  v.).  Their 
insignia  are  a gilded  Maltese  cross,  enamelled  with  blue, 
surrounded  hv  a golden  border,  and  in  the  centre  of 
which  is  the  name  cf  Jesus:  it  is  worn  at  the  button- 
hole. The  full-dress  cloak  is  of  white  camlet,  with  the 
cross  of  the  order  in  blue  satin,  with  gilt  border,  and 
name  on  the  left  side.  The  order  consists  of  a grand 
master,  thirty-three  commanders  (in  commemoration  of 
the  years  of  Christ’s  life),  knights  of  uprightness  and 
of  grace,  chaplains,  and  serving  brethren.  See  Ilerzog, 
Real-Encyklop.  vi,  615 ; Pierer,  Univ.  Lex,  viii,  809. 

Jesus  (Holy  Child),  Congregation  of,  the 

Daughters  of  the,  is  the  name  of  a society  existing  in 
Home,  and  was  founded  by  Anna  Moroni,  of  Lueea,  ay  ho 
in  early  years  went  to  Rome,  and  there  amassed  a for- 
tune, which  she  decided  to  devote  to  a religious  pur- 
pose. In  its  character,  she  made  it  an  institution  sim- 
ilar to  that  of  the  “ Hospital  Sisters,”  for  the  edu- 
cation of  young  women,  so  as  to  enable  them  to  earn  a 
livelihood.  The  congregation  was  confirmed  by  pope 
Clement  X in  IG73.  The  number  of  the  members  is  set 
down  at  thirty-three,  corresponding  with  the  years  Je- 
sus spent  on  earth;  they  assume  the  vow  of  poverty, 
chastity,  and  obedience.  The  novitiate  lasts  three  years, 
but  they  may  withdraw  before  taking  the  vow,  leaving, 
however,  to  the  congregation  whatever  they  may  have 
brought  there  on  their  admission.  The  discipline  of 
the  congregation  is  strict ; the  dress  is  a full  dark  brown 
garment  and  white  cowl.  There  existed  also  a similar 
order  under  the  name  of  “Sisters  of  the  good  Jesus” 
early  in  the  15th  century.  Their  main  object  was  the 
promotion  of  a life  of  chastity  among  females. — Herzog, 
Real-Encyklop.  y i,  G15.  See  Hospital  Sisters. 

Jesus’s  Sacred  Heart,  Society  of.  In  the 
beginning  of  the  18th  century,  the  Jesuits,  fearing  the 
suppression  of  their  own  order,  actively  engaged  in  the 
establishment  of  other  orders  likely  to  continue  the 
same  peculiar  work.  More  particularly  these  were  the 
Societies  of  the  Sacred  Heart  of  Jesus,  which  they 
formed  in  nearly  every  part  of  the  world  where  Roman 
Catholicism,  especially  Jesuitism,  had  a foothold.  Os- 
tensibly they  were  to  be  societies  of  a purely  religious 
character,  but  in  reality  they  proved  to  be  nothing 
more  nor  less  than  the  society  of  the  Jiaccana rists — 
an  asylum  for  the  ex-Jesuits,  a society  in  the  Church 
of  Rome  advocating  the  doctrines  of  the  Jesuits  under  a 
new  name  and  form.  Such  was  evidently  the  aim  of 
this  society  in  1794,  when  the  ex-Jesuit  ahbes  Charles 
de  Rroglic,  Pey,  Tournely,  and  others  of  lesser  note,  or- 
ganized it  at  a country  retreat  near  Lowen,  in  Relgium. 
with  Tournely  (q.  v.)  as  superior.  After  the  battle  of 
Fleurus  (June  26,  1794),  not  only  the  fate  of  Belgium 
seemed  determined,  but  also  that  of  this  society,  and 
it  was  post-haste  removed  to  more  congenial  climes. 
They  found  a protector  in  the  elector  Clemens  Wcnccs- 
laus,  and  settled  at  Treves.  “ The  Jesuits  who  dwelt 
there,”  says  a Roman  Catholic  writer,  “would  gladly 
have  welcomed  them  as  of  their  own  number  if  these 
Frenchmen  had  only  been  masters  of  the  Herman  lan- 
guage. ’ 1 hey  flourished  at  Treves  for  more  than  two 

years,  when  the  approach  of  the  victorious  French  army 
obliged  them  again  to  pull  up  stakes,  and  they  settled 
first  at  Passan,  next  at  Vienna,  and,  when  driven  from 
the  imperial  city,  removed  to  its  very  shades,  entering, 
even  after  this  (1797),  quite  frequently  the  limits  of 
' ,cnna*  1,1  1799  the  order  was  merged  into  that  of  the 
Jiuccunurists  (q.v.). 


A female  order  of  like  name  with  the  above,  whose 
origin  is  also  attributed  to  the  Jesuits,  was  founded  in 
1800  at  Paris.  The  first  leader  of  it  was  the  maid- 
en Barat,  and  it  was  approved  by  Leo  XII 'December 
22,  182G.  As  they  engage  in  the  education  of  young 
females,  they  enjoy,  not  only  in  Roman  Catholic  coun- 
tries, a favorable  reputation,  but  are  in  a flourishing 
condition  in  many  Protestant  countries  also.  They 
have  in  Europe  alone  more  than  a hundred  establish- 
ments. They  exist  also  in  America  and  Africa.  Their 
private  aims,  no  doubt,  are  those  of  the  Jesuitical  order. 
See  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  v,  11G;  Wetzer  und  Weltc, 
Kirchen-Lex.  iv,  485  sq. ; Ilenrian-Fehr,  Mbnchsorden, 
ii,  G2  sq. ; Sehlor,  Die  Frauen  v.  heil.  Herzen  Jesu  (Griitz, 
1846,  8vo).  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jesus,  Society  of.  See  Jesuits. 

Je'tlier  (Ileb.  Ye'lher , surplus ),  the  name  of 

six  men,  and  perhaps  also  of  a place. 

1.  (Sept.  ToSrp.)  A son  of  Jada  and  great-grandson 
of  Jerahmeel,  of  the  family  of  Judah ; he  had  a brother 
Jonathan,  but  no  children  (1  Chron.  ii,  32).  B.C.  con- 
siderably post  1850. 

2.  (Sept.  ToSup,  Vulg.  Jethro , Auth.  Vers.  “Jethro.”) 
The  father-in-law  of  Moses  (Exod.  iv,  18,  first  clause), 
elsewhere  (last  clause  of  the  same  verse)  called  Jethro 
(q.  v.). 

3.  (Sept.  ’IfSrp.)  The  first  named  of  the  sons  of 
Ezra  (?  Ezcr),  of  the  tribe  of  Judah  (his  brothers  being 
Mercd  [q.v.],  Epher,  and  Jalon),but  whose  connections 
are  not  otherwise  defined  (1  Chron.  iv,  17).  B.C.  prob. 
cir.  1618.  In  the  Sept,  the  name  is  repeated:  “and 
Jcther  begat  Miriam,”  ete.  By  the  author  of  the  Qucest. 
Ilebr.  in  Par.  he  is  said  to  have  been  Aaron,  Ezra  being 
another  name  for  Amram  (q.v.).  Miriam  (q.  v.)  in  the 
second  part  of  the  verse — explained  by  the  Targum  to 
be  identical  with  Efrath — is  taken  by  many  to  be  a 
male  name. 

4.  (Sept.  ’ifSfp.)  The  oldest  son  of  Gideon,  who, 
when  called  upon  by  his  father  to  execute  the  captured 
Midianite  kings,  Zebah  and  Zalmunna,  timidly  declined 
on  account  of  his  youth  (Judg.  viii,  20).  B.C.  1362. 
According  to  Judg.  ix,  8,  he  was  slain,  together  with 
69  of  his  brothers — Jonathan  alone  escaping — “upon 
one  stone”  at  Ophrah,  by  the  hands  of  Abimeleeh,  the 
son  of  Gideon’s  concubine,  of  Slicehem.  See  Gideon. 

5.  (Sept.  ’L'Sep,  ’itSIp.)  The  father  of  Amasa,  Da- 

vid’s general  (1  Kings  ii,  5,  32;  I Chron.  ii,  17);  else- 
where (2  Sam.  xvii,  6)  called  Ithra  (q.  v.).  He  is  de- 
scribed in  1 Chron.  ii,  17  as  an  Islimaelite,  which,  again, 
is  more  likely  to  be  correct  than  the  “ Israelite”  of  the 
Hebrew  in  2 Sam.  xvii,  or  the  “ Jezreelite”  of  the  Sept, 
and  Vulg.  in  the  same  passage.  “ Ishmaelite”  is  said 
by  the  author  of  the  Quast.  JIcbr.  in  lib.  Reg.  to  have 
been  the  reading  of  the  Hebrew,  but  there  is  no  trace 
of  it  in  the  MSS.  The  Talmud  records  two  divergent 
opinions  on  the  subject  (Jer.  Jebam.9,  c;  comp.  Babli, 
Jeb.  77,  a).  According  to  R.  Samuel  bar-Naelimani,  Je- 
tlicr  was  an  Ishmaelite  by  birth,  but  became  a proselyte : 
lienee  the  two  appellations.  Another  opinion  is  that,  a 
staunch  upholder  of  David’s  reign,  he,  when  the  king’s 
descent  through  Ruth,  a Moabitish  woman,  was  made  a 
pretext  by  some  of  his  antagonists  to  deprive  him  of 
his  crown,  “girded  his  loins  like  an  Israelite,”  and 
threatened  to  uphold  by  the  sword,  if  need  be,  the  au- 
thority of  the  Ilalacha,  which  had  decided  that  “a  Mo- 
abitish man,  but  not  a Moabitish  woman , an  Ammoni- 
tish  man , but  not  an  Ammonitish  vroman,  should  be 
prohibited  from  entering  into  the  congregation.”  Sim- 
ilarly we  find  in  the  Targ.  to  1 Chron.  ii,  17  (Wilkins’s 
edition — this  verse  belongs  to  those  wanting  in  Beck) 
that  the  father  of  Amasa  was  Jether  the  Israelite,  but 
that  he  was  called  Jether  the  Ishmaelite  because  he  aid- 
ed David  (~  rP3)  before  the  tribunal 

[Wilkins,  “cum  A rabibus ! ”].  Later  eommefitators 
(Kashi,  Abrabanel,  David  lvinichi)  assume  that  he  was 
an  Israelite  by  birth,  but  dwelt  in  the  land  of  Ishmael, 


JETHRO 


JETIIETII  903 


and  was  for  this  reason  also  called  the  Ishmaclite,  as 
Obcd  Edom  is  also  called  the  Gittite  (2  Sam.  vi),  or  Hi- 
ram's father  the  Zuri  or  Tyrian  (1  Kings  vi).  David 
Kimchi  also  adduces  a suggestion  of  his  father,  to  the 
effect  “ that  in  the  land  of  Ishmael  Jethcr  was  called 
the  Israelite  from  his  nationality,  and  in  that  of  Israel 
they  called  him  the  Ishmaclite  on  account  of  his  living 
in  the  land  of  Ishmael.”  Josephus  calls  him  ’I t^apoyt; 
(_4 «/.  vii,  10, 1).  lie  married  Abigail,  David’s  sister, 
probably  during  the  sojourn  of  the  family  of  Jesse  in 
the  land  of  Moab,  under  the  protection  of  its  king.  Sec 
Am  asa. 

6.  (Sept.  Tt&p  v.  r.  Tf3//o.)  An  Asherite  (head  of  a 
warrior  family  numbering  26,000)  whose  three  sons  are 
named  in  1 Chron.  vii,  38;  possibly  the  same  with  Itii- 
ran  of  the  preceding  verse. 

7.  Whether  the  Jthrites  (*HrP,  Sept.  'EhpatoQ, 
Tf3pi,  Te3fpt,  Ttcrpm/c, Yulg.  Jethritei <,  Jethraus,  etc.) 
Ira  and  Gareb,  mentioned  in  2 Sam.  xxiii,  38,  etc.,  were 
natives  of  an  otherwise  unknown  place  called  Jethcr, 
or  of  Jathir,  "Pr"',  one  of  David's  places  of  refuge  (1 
Sam.  xxx,  27),  or  descendants  of  one  Jethcr— the  least 
probable  suggestion — cannot  now  be  determined.  Sec 
Ithiute. 

Je'thetll  (Heb.  Yetheth ',  “P?,  prob.  a peg,  or  fig.  a 
prince;  Sept.  Tf3e3  and  ’leSio,  the  last  apparently  from 
falsely  reading  "UTH;  Yulg.  Jetheth),  tlie  third  named  of 
the  petty  Edomitisli  sheiks  in  Mount  Seir  (Gen.  xxxvi, 
40;  1 Chron.  i,  51).  II. C.  ante  1G58.  See  Esau.  As 
to  identification,  El-Wet uleh  is  a place  in  Ncjd,  said  to 
be  in  the  Dahnii  [see  Isiibak.];  there  is  also  a place 
called  El-Wetid,  and  El-  Wetiddt,  which  is  the  name  of 
mountains  belonging  to  Bene  Abd-Allali  Ibn-Ghatfiin 
(iftirdsitl.  s.  v.)  (Smith).  See  Arabia. 

Jeth'lall  (Heb.  Yithlah ',  Ptbr^,  suspended,  i.  e.  lof- 
ty; Sept.  ’Ff3X«  v.  r.  Si\«3d,  Yulg.  Jethelii),  a city  on 
the  borders  of  the  tribe  of  Dan,  mentioned  between 
Ajalon  and  Elon  (Josh,  xix,  42).  The  associated  names 
seem  to  indicate  a locality  in  the  eastern  part  of  the 
tribe,  not  far  from  the  modern  el-Atrun  (Ataroth),  per- 
haps the  ruined  site  marked  on  Yau  de  Yelde’s  Map 
(last  ed.)  as  Arnicas  (Nicopolis).  See  Emmaus,  2. 

Jeth'ro  (Heb.  Yithro ',  i“P"\  i.  q.  ‘jilPP,  excellence 
or  gain,  as  often  in  Eccles. ; occurs  in  Exod.  iii,  1 ; iv, 
18;  xviii,  1,  2,  5,  6,  9,  10,  12;  Sept.  ’lo3op)  or  Jetiier 
("iP^,  ahuuditnce,  as  often  ; occurs  with  reference  to  this 
person,  Exod.  iv,  18,  where  it  is  Anglicized  “Jethro” 
in  the  Auth.Yers.,  though  in  the  Heb.-Sam.  text  and 
Sam.  version  the  reading  is  Hr*1,  as  in  the  Syriac  and 
Targ.  Jon.,  one  of  Kennieott’s  MSS.,  and  a MS.  of  Targ. 
Onk.,  No.  16  in  De  Rossi’s  collection;  Sept.  ’Io3op),  a 
“priest  or  prince  (for  the  word  carries  both  signi- 
fications, and  both  these  offices  were  united  in  the  pa- 
triarchal sheiks)  of  Midian,  a tract  of  country  in  Ara- 
bia Petnea,  on  the  eastern  border  of  the  Red  Sea,  at  no 
great  distance  from  Mount  Sinai,  where  Moses  spent  his 
exile  from  the  Egyptian  court,  B.C.  1698.  The  family 
of  this  individual  seems,  in  the  sequel  at  least,  to  have 
observed  the  worship  of  the  true  God  in  common  with 
the  Hebrews  (Exod.  xviii,  11,  12),  and  from  this  cir- 
cumstance some  suppose  it  to  have  been  a branch  of  the 
posterity  of  Midian,  fourth  son  of  Abraham,  by  Ketn- 
rah,  while  others,  on  the  contrary,  maintain  that  the 
aspersion  cast  upon  Moses  for  having  married  a Cushite 
is  inconsistent  with  the  idea  of  its  genealogical  descent 
from  that  patriarch  (Calmet).  See  Midian. 

“ Considerable  difficulty  has  been  felt  in  determining 
who  this  person  was,  as  well  as  his  exact  relation  to 
Moses;  for  the  word  “PH,  which,  in  Exod.  iii,  1 ; Numb, 
x,  29;  Judg.  iv,  11,  is  translated  father-in-law , and  in 
Gen.  xix,  14,  son-in-law,  is  a term  of  indeterminate  sig- 
nification, denoting  simply  relationship  by  marriage; 
and  besides,  the  transaction  which  in  one  place  (Exod. 


xviii,  27)  is  related  of  Jetliro,  seems  to  be  in  another 
related  of  Hobab  (Numb,  x,  28).  Hence  some  have 
concluded  that,  as  forty  years  had  elapsed  since  Moses’s 
connection  with  this  family  was  formed,  his  father-in- 
law  (Exod.  ii,  18),  Reuel  or  Raguel  (the  same  word  in 
the  original  is  used  in  both  places),  was  dead,  or  con- 
fined to  his  tent  by  the  infirmities  of  age,  and  that  the 
person  who  visited  Moses  at  the  foot  of  Sinai  was  his 
brother-in-law,  called  Hobab  in  Numb,  x,  29;  Judg.  iv, 
1 1 ; Jethro  in  Exod.  iii,  1 ; and  in  Judg.  i,  16,  Keni 
which  there,  as  well  as  in  iv,  11,  is  rendered  ‘the  Kc- 
nite’)”  (Kitto).  Against  this  explanation,  however, 
there  lies  this  serious  objection,  that  in  Numb,  x,  29 
Hobab  is  expressly  called  the  son  of  Raguel  (or  Reuel), 
who  in  Exod.  ii,  16-21  is  evidently  made  the  father-in- 
law  of  Moses,  and  in  iii,  1 is  clearly  the  same  as  Jethro. 
Nor  will  the  interpretation  of  the  Targum  avail,  which 
makes  Reuel  the  grandfather  of  Moses’s  wife  (by  a fre- 
quent Hebraism  of  “ daughter”  for  granddaughter,  etc.); 
for  then  Moses’s  real  father-in-law  would  be  nowhere 
named ; and  it  is  clearly  Jethro  whose  flocks  he  kept, 
and  to  whom  he  “ made  obeisance”  (Exod.  xviii,  7) ; 
which,  with  other  incidental  allusions,  are  all  natural 
on  the  supposition  that  Moses  was  his  sou-in-law,  but 
are  out  of  place  in  a brother-in-law.  Besides,  it  is  Jethro 
who  is  called  the  sacerdotal  and  tribal  head  of  the  elan, 
which  could  not,  under  the  patriarchal  domestic  consti- 
tution, have  been  the  case  had  his  father  Reuel  been 
still  ajive.  If,  indeed,  we  could  accept  the  ingenious 
conjecture  of  Ewald  ( Gesch . des  hr.  sec.  ii,  33)  that,  by 
an  ancient  clerical  error,  the  words  *p  ‘HP",  “Jethro, 
son  of,”  had  dropped  out  before  the  name  of  Reuel, 
it  would  then  be  easy,  with  the  Targum  Jonathan, 
Abcn-Ezra,  Rosenmuller,  etc.,  to  assume  that  Jethro 
was  Reuel’s  sun ; but  there  is  no  trace  of  such  an  error. 
All  those  methods  of  adjusting  these  accounts  must 
therefore  be  abandoned  which  maintain  the  identity  of 
Jethro  and  Hobab,  in  whatever  way  they  seek  (see 
Winer’s  Eealworterbuch,  s.  v.  Raguel)  to  reconcile  the 
discrepancies;  and  the  whole  of  the  statements  may  be 
cleared  up  by  understanding,  with  Yon  Lengerke  (Ke- 
nuan,  i,  393),  Bcrtheau  (Gesch.  Isra.  sec.  242),  Kalisch 
(Exod.  p.  35),  and  others,  that  Jethro  and  Raguel  were 
but  different  names  of  Moses’s  father-in-law,  and  that 
the  son  Hobab  was  his  brother-in-law  (referring  "(Pri 
in  Numb,  x,  29  to  Raguel,  and  in  Judg.  iv,  11  taking  it 
in  the  general  sense  of  affinis,  relative  by  marriage). 
Josephus,  in  speaking  of  Raguel,  remarks  once  (Ah#,  ii, 
12,  1)  that  he  “had  lothor  ( lo3(>p,  i.  e.  Jethro)  for  a 
surname”  (’IfStyXmoc  yv  hriKXypa  rig  ’P«yoo>)\). 
“The  abbreviated  form  of  his  name  (Jethcr  or  Jethro, 
for  Jethron)  is  enumerated  by  the  Midrash  as  the  first 
of  the  seven  (or,  according  to  another  version,  eight) 
names  by  which  this  Midianitish  priest  was  known  [viz. 
Jether  or  Jethro,  because  he  heaped  up  ("“P'n)  good 
deeds,  or  because  ‘he  added  a Parasha  to  tlie  Torah;’ 
Cheber  (“! 2 n),  because  he  was  a friend  of  the  Lord; 
Chobeb  (--*“!),  because  he  was  beloved  by  the  Lord,  or 
because  ‘ he  loved  the  Torah ;’  Reuel,  because  he  was  a 
companion  (SH)  to  the  Lord;  Petnel,  because  he  freed 
himself  ("CS)  from  idolatry].  Indeed,  Jether  is  con- 
sidered his  original  name,  to  which,  when  he  became  a 
believer  and  a convert  to  the  faith,  an  additional  letter 
(‘)  was  affixed.  According  to  the  XI  id  rash  (fol.  53, 54), 
he  had  been  one  of  Pharaoh’s  musicians,  and  had  got 
possession  of  Adam’s  staff,  which  had  belonged  to  Jo- 
seph ; but  he  was  driven  from  Egypt  because  he  opposed 
the  decree  for  drowning  the  Israelitish  infants”  (Kitto). 
See  Hobab;  Raguel. 

“The  hospitality,  free-hearted  and  unsought,  which 
Jethro  at  once  extended  to  the  unknown,  homeless  wan- 
derer, on  the  relation  of  his  daughters  that  he  had  wa- 
tered their  flock,  is  a picture  of  Eastern  manners  no  less 
true  than  lovely.  We  may  perhaps  suppose  that  Je- 


jetiiro 


904 


JETZER 


thro,  before  his  acquaintance  with  Moses,  was  not  a wor- 
shipper of  the  true  (i<*<l.  Traces  of  this  appear  in  the 
delay  which  Moses  had  suffered  to  take  place  with^  re- 
spect to  the  circumcision  of  his  son  (Exod.  iv,  24-zG) : 
indeed,  it  is  even  possible  that  Zipporah  had  afterwards 
been  subjected  to  a kind  of  divorce  (Exod.  x\  iii,  2, 
on  account  of  her  attachment  to  an  alien 
creed,  but  that  growing  convictions  were  at  work  in  the 
mind  of  Jethro,  from  the  circumstance  of  Israel’s  con- 
tinued prosperity,  till  at  last,  acting  upon  these,  he 
brought  back  his  daughter,  and  declared  that  his  im- 
pressions were  confirmed,  for  ‘ now  he  knew  that  the 
Lord  was  greater  than  all  gods,  for  in  the  thing  wherein 
thev  dealt  proudly,  he  was  above  them:’  consequently 
we 'are  told  that  ‘Jethro,  Moses’s  father-in-law,  took  a 
burnt-offering  and  sacrifices  for  God:  and  Aaron  came, 
and  all  the  elders  of  Israel,  to  eat  bread  with  Moses’s  fa- 
ther-in-law before  God,'  as  if  to  celebrate  the  event  of 
his  conversion”  (Smith).  See  Moses. 

“Shortly  after  the  Exodus  (B.C.  1G58),  Jethro  paid  a 
visit  to  Moses,  while  the  Hebrew  camp  was  lying  in  the 
environs  of  Sinai,  bringing  with  him  Zipporah,  Moses’s 
wife,  who,  together  with  her  two  sons,  had  been  left 
with  her  family  while  her  husband  was  absent  on  his 
embassy  to  Pharaoh.  The  interview  was  on  both  sides 
affectionate,  and  was  celebrated  first  by  the  solemn  rites 
of  religion,  and  afterwards  by  festivities,  of  which  Aaron 
and  the  elders  of  Israel  were  invited  to  partake.  On 
the  following  day,  observing  Moses  incessantly  occupied 
in  deciding  causes  that  were  submitted  to  him  for  judg- 
ment, his  experienced  kinsman  remonstrated  with  him 
on  the  speedy  exhaustion  which  a perseverance  in  such 
arduous  labors  would  superinduce ; and  in  order  to  re- 
lieve himself,  as  well  as  secure  a due  attention  to  every 
case,  he  urged  Moses  to  appoint  a number  of  subordinate 
officers  to  divide  with  him  the  duty  of  the  judicial  tri- 
bunals, with  power  to  decide  in  all  common  affairs,  while 
the  weightier  and  more  serious  matters  were  reserved 
to  himself.  This  wise  suggestion  the  Hebrew'  legislator 
adopted  (Exod.  xviii).  As  the  Hebrews  were  shortly 
afterwards  about  preparing  to  decamp  from  Sinai,  the 
kinsmen  of  Moses  announced  their  intention  to  return 
to  their  own  territory,”  and  Moses  interposed  no  special 
objection  to  the  purpose  on  the  part  of  his  father-in- 
law,  whose  presence  was  doubtless  essential  at  home, 
and  who  accordingly  took  his  deparure  (Exod.  xviii, % 
27).  His  brother-in-law  Hobah  naturally  purposed  to 
accompany  his  father  back  to  Midian,  and  at  first  ex- 
pressed a refusal  to  the  invitation  of  Moses  to  accompa- 
ny the  Israelites  to  Canaan  (Numb,  x,  29,  30).  It  is 
not  stated  whether  he  actually  returned  with  his  father, 
“ but  if  he  did  carry  that  purpose  into  execution,  it  was 
in  opposition  to  the  urgent  solicitations  of  the  Jewish 
leader,  who  entreated  him,  for  his  owrn  advantage,  to 
cast  in  his  lot  with  the  people  of  God ; at  all  events  to 
continue  with  them,  and  afford  them  the  benefit  of  his 
thorough  acquaintance  with  the  wilderness.  4 Leave  us 
not,  1 pray  thee,’  said  Moses,  ‘forasmuch  as  thou  know- 
e>t  how  w'e  are  to  encamp  in  the  wilderness,  and  thou 
may  ext  1>e  to  m instead  of  eyes which  the  Sept,  has  ren- 
dered ‘and  thou  slialt  be  an  elder  among  us.’  But  there 
can  be  little  doubt  that  the  true  meaning  is  that  Hobah 
might  perform  the  office  of  a hyber  or  guide  (see  Bruce’s 
Travels , iv,  5NG) — his  influence  as  an  Arab  chief,  his 
knowledge  of  the  routes,  the  situation  of  the  wells,  the 
places  for  fuel,  the  prognostics  of  the  w'eather,  and  the 
most  eligible  stations  for  encamping,  rendering  him  pe- 
culiarly qualified  to  act  in  that  important  capacity.  See 
< ’ahavan.  It  is  true  that  God  was  their  leader,  by  the 
pillar  of  cloud  by  day  and  of  fire  by  night,  the  advance- 
ment or  the  halting  of  which  regulated  their  journeys 
and  fixed  their  encampments.  But  beyond  these  gen- 
eral directions  the  tokens  of  their  heavenly  guide  did 
not  extend.  As  smaller  parties  were  frequently  sallying 
lorth  from  the  main  body  in  cpiest  of  forage  and  other 
necessaries,  which  human  observation  or  enterprise  were 


sufficient  to  provide,  so  Moses  discovered  his  wisdom 
and  good  sense  in  enlisting  the  aid  of  the  son  of  a native 
sheik,  who,  from  his  family  connection  with  himself,  his 
powerful  influence,  and  his  long  experience,  promised  to 
render  the  Israelites  most  important  services.”  To  these 
solicitations  we  may  infer,  from  the  absence  of  any  fur-, 
ther  refusal,  that  Ilobab  finally  yielded;  a conclusion 
that,  indeed,  seems  to  be  explicitly  referred  to  in  Judg. 

i,  1G;  iv,  11.  See  Kenite;  Itiirite. 

No  other  particulars  of  the  life  of  Jethro  are  known, 
but  the  Arabs,  who  call  him  Shoaib,  have  a variety  of 
traditions  concerning  him.  They  say  that  Michael,  the 
son  of  Taskir,  and  grandson  of  Midian,  was  his  father: 
this  last  was  the  immediate  son  of  Ishmael,  according 
to  the  author  of  Leb-Tarik,  but  Moses  makes  no  men- 
tion of  Midian  among  the  sons  of  Ishmael  (Gen.  xxv, 
13,  14).  Jethro  gave  his  son-in-law  Moses  the  miracu- 
lous rod  ; it  had  once  been  the  rod  of  Adam,  and  was  of 
the  myrtle  of  Paradise,  etc.  (Lane’s  A'oron,p.  190;  Weil’s 
Bibl.  Legends, p.  107-109).  Although  blind  (Lane,  p.  180, 
note),  he  was  favored  with  the  gift  of  prophecy,  and  God 
sent  him  to  the  Midianites  to  preach  the  unit}'  of  God, 
i and  to  withdraw  them  from  idolatry.  A commentator 
on  the  Koran  affirms  that  whenever  Jethro  performed  his 
devotions  on  the  top  of  a certain  mountain,  the  moun- 
tain became  lower,  in  order  to  render  his  ascent  more 
easy.  Another  Arabian  commentator  says  that  Jethro 
took  pains  to  reform  the  bad  customs  of  the  Midianites, 
such  as  stealing,  having  two  sorts  of  weights  and  meas- 
ures, for  buying  by  the  larger  and  selling  by  the  small- 
er. Besides  these  frauds  of  the  Midianites  in  their  trad- 
ing, they  offered  violence  to  travellers,  and  robbed  them 
on  the  highways.  They  threatened  even  Jethro  for  his 
remonstrances.  This  insolence  obliged  God  to  manifest 
his  wrath : he  sent  the  angel  Gabriel,  who,  with  a voice 
of  thunder,  made  the  earth  to  tremble,  which  destroyed 
them  all  except  Jethro,  and  those  who,  like  him,  be- 
lieved the  unity  of  God  (Lane,  p.  179-181).  After  this 
j punishment  Jethro  went  to  Moses,  as  related  in  Exod. 

! xviii.  1-3.  The  Mohammedans  term  him,  from  the  ad- 
j vice  he  gave  to  Moses,  “The  preacher  of  the  prophets” 
I (D’Herbelot,  Bibl.  Orient,  iii,  273  sq. ; comp.  J.  C.  Maier, 
De  dethrone , Helmst.  1715).  44  The  name  of  Sho’eib  still 
remains  attached  to  one  of  the  wadvs  on  the  east  side 
of  the  Jordan,  opposite  Jericho,  through  which,  accord- 
ing to  the  tradition  of  the  locality  (Sectzen,  Reisen,  1854, 

ii,  319, 37G),  the  children  of  Israel  descended  to  the  Jor- 
dan. Other  places  bearing  his  name  and  those  of  his 
two  daughters  are  shown  at  Sinai  and  on  the  Gulf  of 
Akaba  (Stanley,  Syr.  and  Pal.  p.  33)”  (Smith). 

Je'tur  (Heb.  Yetur',  ’“1*112’?,  prob.  i.  q.  “1*172,  an  inch- 
sure,  i.  e.  nomadic  camp;  Sept.  ’I troop,  ’ItTiovg,  but 
’Iroupoioi  in  1 Chron.v,  19),  one  of  the  twelve  sons  of 
Ishmael  (Gen.  xxv,  15;  1 Citron,  i,  31).  B.C.  post  20G3. 
i His  name  stands  also  for  his  descendants,  the  Iturceuns 
(L  Citron,  v,  19),  a people  living  east  of  the  northern 
Jordan  (Luke  iii,  1),  where  he  appears  to  have  settled. 
See  Iti’r.-ea, 

Jetzer,  Joiiaxn,  a religious  fanatic,  a tailor  by  trade, 
who  lived  in  the  early  part  of  the  IGth  century,  was  a 
lay  brother  of  the  Dominican  convent  at  Berne.  The 
order  to  which  he  belonged  about  this  time  were  en- 
gaged in  a controversy  with  the  Franciscans  on  the 
doctrine  of  the  immaculate  conception.  Some  noted 
monks  and  priests  of  the  former  had  so  fiercely  assailed 
it  that  they  had  been  summoned  to  Borne  to  answer  for 
their  conduct.  The  Dominicans  of  Wimpfen  thereupon 
determined  to  appear  to  one  of  their  novitiates  at  Berne 
— this  very  Jetzer — at  midnight,  and,  representing  de- 
parted spirits,  assured  him  that  in  the  other  world  the 
doctrine  of  immaculate  conception  was  denied,  and  that 
those  who  had  in  this  world  persecuted  the  opponents 
of  the  doctrine  were  still  in  Purgatory,  and  there  expi- 
ating their  crime.  He  at  first  was  completely  duped, 
i and  created  a great  excitement  among  the  masses, which 
I was  all  that  the  monks  had  desired  in  order  to  secure 


JEUEL 


905 


JEW 


the  liberation  of  their  comrades  at  Rome.  But  when 
Jetzer  found  that  he  had  been  imposed  upon,  he  serious- 
ly opposed  the  plot  at  the  danger  of  his  life.  For  fur- 
ther particulars,  see  Xlosheim,  Eccles.  Hist,  book  iv,cent. 
xvi,  sec.  1,  ch.  i,  § 12.  See  also  Berne  Conference. 

Jeu'el  (Heb.  Yeiiel',  5N5!"?,  snatched  away  by  God , 

i.  e.  protected;  Sept.  ’U//A,Ynlg.  Jehuel),  a descendant 
of  Zerah,  who,  with  his  kindred  to  the  number  of  090, 
resided  in  Jerusalem  after  the  captivity  (1  Chron.  ix, 
6).  B.C.  536.  This  name  is  also  everywhere  written 
in  the  text  for  See  Jeiel.  In  the  Apocrypha 

(1  Esdr.  viii,  39)  it  stands  for  the  Heb.  Jeuel  (Ezra  viii, 
13)  as  the  name  of  one  of  the  Bcne-Adonikam  who  re- 
turned to  Jerusalem  after  the  captivity. 

Je'usll  (Hebrew  Yeiish',  assembler;  written 

Yeish',  in  the  text  of  Gen.  xxxvi,  5,  14;  1 Chron. 
vii,  10),  the  name  of  several  men. 

1.  (Sept.  \tovg,  but  in  1 Chron.  i,  35;  Vulg. 

Jehus').  The  oldest  of  the  three  sons  of  Esau  by  Aholi- 
baniah,  the  daughter  of  Anah,  born  in  Canaan,  but  af- 
terwards a sheik  of  the  Edomites  (Gen.  xxxvi,  5, 14, 18 ; 
1 Chron.  i,  35).  B.C.  post  1964. 

2.  (Sept.  ’lsw£  v.  r.  laou£,Vulg.  Jehus.)  The  first 
named  of  the  sons  of  Bilhau,  grandson  of  Benjamin  (1 
Chron.  vii,  10).  B.C.  considerably  post  1856. 

3.  (Sept.  Ta>ag,  Yulg.  Jans.)  A Levite,  one  of  the 
four  sons  of  Shimei ; not  having  many  sons,  he  was  reck- 
oned with  his  brother  Beriah  as  the  third  branch  of  the 
family  (1  Chron.  xxiii,  10,  11).  B.C.  1014. 

4.  (Sept.  ’Ifoi'f,  Vulg.  Jehus.)  One  of  the  three  sons 
of  Rehoboam,  apparently  by  Abihail,  his  second  wife  (2 
Chron.  xi,  19).  B.C.  post  973. 

5.  (Sept.  'IcVig  v.  r.  4«c, Yulg.  Jehus,  A.Yers.  “ Je- 
hnsh.”)  The  second  son  of  Esliek,  brother  of  Azel,  of 
the  ilescendants  of  Said  (1  Chron.  viii,  39).  B.C.  cir. 
588. 

Je'iiz  (Heb.  Yeiits',  V""?,  counsellor,  q.  d.  Ei^3oy- 
Xo q;  Sept.  Doee  v.  r.  ’le/3oug,  Yulg.  Jehus),  a chief 
Benjamite,  one  of  the  sons  apparently  of  Shaharaim, 
born  of  his  wife  Hodesh  or  Baara  in  the  land  of  XIoab 
(l  Chron.  viii,  10).  B.C.  perh.  cir.  1618. 

Jew  (IIeb.lVfMc///,H“n7,plur.  sometimes 

Esth. iv, 7 ; viii,  1,7,13;  ix,  15, 18  text;  fern. 

1 Chron. iv,  18;  Chald.in  plur.  emphat. 

Dan.  iii,  8;  Ezra  iv,  12;  v,  1,5;  adv.  Jmlaice, 

in  the  Jews’  language,  2 Kings  xviii,  26;  Neh.  xiii,  24 ; 
Sept,  and  N.  T.  ’lovcaiog,  hence  verb  ’Ioncm^w,  to  Ju- 
daize.  Gal.  ii,  14;  adj.  ’loccoiKoe,  Jewish,  Tit.  i,  14,  etc.), 
a name  formed  from  that  of  the  patriarch  Judah,  and 
applied  in  its  first  use  to  one  belonging  to  the  tribe  or 
country  of  Judah,  or  rather,  perhaps,  to  a subject  of  the 
separate  kingdom  of  Judah  (2  Kings  xvi,  6;  xxv,  5; 
Jer.  xxxii,  12;  xxxviii,  19;  xl,  11;  xli,  3;  xliv,  1 ; lii, 
28),  in  contradistinction  from  the  seceding  ten  tribes, 
who  retained  the  name  of  Israel  or  Israelites.  During 
the  captivity  the  term  seems  to  have  been  extended 
(see  Josephus,  A nt.  xi,  5,  6)  to  all  the  people  of  the  He- 
brew'language  and  country,  without  distinction  (Esth. 
iii,  6,  9;  Dan.  iii,  8,  12);  and  this  loose  application  of 
the  name  was  preserved  after  the  restoration  to  Pales- 
tine (Hag.  i,  14 ; ii,  2;  Ezra  iv,  12;  v,  1,5;  Noli,  i,  2;  ii, 
16;  v,  1.8, 17),  when  it  came  to  denote  not  only  every 
descendant  of  Abraham  in  the  largest  possible  sense 
(2  XIaec.  ix,  17;  John  iv,  9;  Acts  xviii,  2, 24,  etc.),  es- 
pecially in  opposition  to  foreigners  (“Jews  and  Greeks,” 
Acts  xiv,  l ; xviii,  4 ; xix,  10 ; 1 Cor.  i,  23, 24),  but  even 
proselytes  who  had  no  blood-relation  to  the  Hebrews 
(Acts  ii,  5 ; comp.  10).  An  especial  use  of  the  term  is 
noticeable  in  the  Gospel  of  John,  where  it  frequently 
stands  for  the  chief  Jew’s,  the  elders,  who  were  opposed 
to  Christ  (John  i,  19;  v,  15,  16;  vii,  1,  11,13;  ix,  22; 
xviii,  12, 14,  etc.;  comp.  Acts  xxiii,  20).  See  Judah. 

The  original  designation  of  the  Israelitish  nation  was 
the  Hebrews,  by  which  all  the  legitimate  posterity  of 


Abraham  were  known,  not  only  among  themselves  (Gen. 
xl,  15;  Exitd.  ii,  7 ; iii,  18;  v,  3;  vii,  16;  ix,  13;  Jonah 
i,  9;  comj).  4 Xlace.  ix — although  the  name  Jew  was  in 
later  times  prevalent ; see  the  Targum  of  Jonathan  on 
Exod.,  nt  sup.),  but  also  among  foreigners  (as  the  Egyp- 
tians, Gen.  xxxix,  14;  xli,  12;  Exod.  i,  16;  the  Philis- 
tines, 1 Sam.  iv,  6,9;  xiii,  19;  xxix,  3;  the  Assyrians, 
Judith  xii,  11 ; and  even  the  Greeks  and  Romans,  see 
Plutarch,  Sympos.  iv,  5;  Appian,  Cic.  ii,  71;  I’ausan.  i, 
6,  24;  v,  7,  3;  x,  12,  5;  Porphyry,  Vit.  Pythug.  p.  185; 
Tacit.  Hist,  v,  2).  See  Israelite.  After  the  exile,  the 
title  Jews  became  the  usual  one  (compare  1 Mace,  viii), 
while  the  term  “ Hebrews”  fell  into  disuse,  being  still 
applied,  however,  to  the  Samaritans  (Josephus,  A nt.  xi, 
8,  6),  or  more  commonly  to  designate  the  vulgar  Syro- 
Chaldee  spoken  by  the  Palestinian  Jews  (comp.  Acts  ix, 
29;  Eusebius  iii,  24),  in  distinction  from  the  Hellenists 
(Acts  vi,  1 ; comp,  the  title  of  the  “ Epistle  to  the  He- 
brews,” and  see  Bleek,  Einleit.  in  d.  lir.  a.  d.  Hebr.  p.  32 
sip;  Euseb.  vi,  14).  See  Hellenist.  Yet  Paid,  who 
spoke  Greek,  was  appropriately  styled  a Hebrew  (2  Cor. 
xi,  22;  Phil,  iii,  5);  and  still  later  the  terms  Hebrew 
and  Jew  wfere  applied  with  little  distinction  to  persons 
of  Jewish  descent  (Eusebius,  Ilist.  Ev.  ii,  4 ; Philo,  iii,  4). 
See  Hebrew.  (For  a further  discussion  of  these  epi- 
thets, see  Gescnius,  Gesch.d.  Ilebr.  Sprache.9  sq. ; Ileng- 
stenberg,  B ileum,  p.  207  sq. ; Ew’ald,  Kvit.  Gramm,  p.  3, 
and  Israel.  Gesch.  i,  334;  Hoffmann,  in  the  Ilall.Ency- 
ciop.  II,  iii,  307  sq.;  Henke’s  J I us.  ii,  639  sq.;  Carpzov, 
Grit.  Sacra,  p.  170  sq.) 

The  history  of  the  Jew’ish  nation  previous  to  the 
Christian  sera,  is  interwoven  with  that  of  their  country 
and  capital.  See  Palestine;  Jerusalem.  During 
the  Biblical  periods  it  consists  mostly  of  the  narratives 
of  the  progenitors  and  rulers  of  the  people,  or  of  the 
events  that  marked  its  leading  epochs.  See  Abraham; 
Jacob;  Moses;  Joshua;  Judges;  David;  Solomon; 
Judah;  Israel;  Captivity ; Maccabees ; Herod; 
Juieka.  (For  further  details,  see  list  of  works  below',) 

1.  Strictly  speaking,  a history  of  the  Jews  ought  per- 
haps to  commence  with  the  return  of  the  remnant  of 
the  chosen  people  of  God  from  the  exile  (q.v.),  but  this 
portion  of  their  history,  down  even  to  the  time  of  their 
final  dispersion,  A.D.  135,  has  already  been  treated  at 
length  in  other  parts  of  this  work  (w'e  refer  the  reader 
to  the  articles  Hadrian  ; Bar-Cociieba;  Dispersed; 
Jerusalem).  It  was  the  effort,  under  the  leadership  of 
Bar-Cocheba,  to  regain  their  independence,  that  brought 
about  a repetition  of  scenes  enacted  under  Titus,  and 
resulted  actually  in  the  depopulation  of  Palestine.  Tal- 
mud and  Midrash  (especially  Midrash  Echo)  alike  ex- 
haust even  Eastern  extravagance  in  describing  the  ter- 
rible consequences  that  followed  the  capture  by  the  Ro- 
mans of  the  last  of  the  Jewish  forts — Either,  their  great- 
est stronghold.  The  wdiole  of  JiuUva  was  turned  into  a 
desert;  about  985  towns  and  villages  were  laid  in  ash- 
es; fifty  of  their  fortresses  were  razed  to  the  ground; 
even  the  name  of  their  capital  w’as  changed  to  ./Elia 
Capitolina,  and  they  w'ere  forbidden  to  approach  it  on 
pain  of  death;  thousands  of  those  who  had  escaped 
death  w'ere  reduced  to  slavery,  and  such  as  could  not  be 
thus  disposed  of  were  transported  into  Egypt.  “The 
previous  invasions  and  conquests,  civil  strifes  and  op- 
pressions, persecution  and  famine,  had  carried  hosts  of 
Jewish  captives,  slaves,  fugitives,  exiles,  and  emigrants 
into  the  remotest  provinces  of  the  Meilo-Persian  em- 
pire, all  over  Asia  Minor,  into  Armenia,  Arabia,  Egypt, 
Cvrene,  Cyprus,  Greece,  and  Italy.  The  Roman  con- 
quest and  persecutions  completed  this  work  of  disper- 
sion and  thus  suddenly  scattered  abroad  into  almost 
every  part  of  the  empire,  in  the  regions  of  XI  t.  Atlas,  on 
both  sides  of  the  Pyrenees,  on  the  Rhine,  the  Danube, 
and  the  Po,  the  Jews  w'ere  deprived  of  the  bond  of  con- 
nection which  the  possession  of  a common  country  only 
can  afford.  Their  lot  henceforth  was  oppression,  pov- 
erty, and  scorn. 

Yet  even  in  their  utmost  depression,  their  religious 


906 


JEW 


JEW 


life  assorted,  as  it  has  ever  done,  its  superiority  over  all 
the  disasters  of  time.  No  sooner  had  the  war  termina- 
ted than,  as  if  rising  from  the  ruins  of  the  tomb,  the 
Sanhedrim  q.  v.)  and  the  synagogue  reappeared.  Out 
of  Palestine  innumerable  congregations  of  various  sizes 
had  long  been  established;  but  the  late  events  in  Egypt, 
Cyrenaica.  t vprus,  and  Mesopotamia,  as  well  as  Pales- 
tine. would  have  insured  their  annihilation  but  for  the 
religious  idiosyncrasy  of  the  people.  If  but  three  per- 
sons were  left*  in  a neighborhood,  they  would  rally  at 
the  tryst ing-place  of  the  law.  The  sense  of  their  com- 
mon dangers,  miseries,  and  wants  bound  the  Jewish 
people  more  closely  to  one  another.  A citizen  of  the 
world,  having  no  country  he  could  call  his  own,  the 
Jew  nevertheless  lived  within  certain  well-defined  lim- 
its, beyond  which,  to  him,  there  was  no  world.  Thus, 
though  scattered  abroad,  the  Israelites  had  not  ceased 
to  he  a nation ; nor  did  any  nation  feel  its  oneness  and 
integrity  so  truly  as  they.  Jerusalem, indeed, had  ceased 
to  lie  their  capital;  hut  the  school  and  the  synagogue, 
and  not  a Lovitieal  hierarchy,  now  became  their  impreg- 
nable citadel,  and  the  law  their  palladium.  The  old 
men,  schooled  in  sorrows,  rallied  about  them  the  man- 
hood that  remained  and  the  infancy  that  multiplied,  re- 
solving that  they  would  transmit  a knowledge  of  their 
religion  to  future  generations.  They  founded  schools 
as  well  as  synagogues,  until  their  efforts  resulted  in  the 
writing  of  a code  of  laws  second  only  to  that  of  Moses — 
a system  of  traditionary  principles,  precepts,  and  cus- 
toms to  keep  alive  forever  the  peculiar  spirit  of  Juda- 
ism (see  Pule.  Karaites,  p.  59). 

Among  the  first  t lungs  to  he  accomplished  by  the  Jews 
of  Palestine  at  this  period  of  their  history  was  the  elec- 
tion, in  place  of  the  late  Gamaliel  11  (q.v.),of  a patriarch 
from  the  eminent  rabbins  who  had  escaped  the  sword 
of  the  Human  conqueror.  A synod  congregated  at  Us- 
eba  (q.  v.),  and  Simon  ben-Gamaliel,  presenting  the  best 
hereditary  claims  for  this  distinguished  office,  was  cho- 
sen, and  intrusted  with  the  reconstruction  of  the  syna- 
gogue ami  school  at  Jamnia  (q.  v.),  there  to  re-estab- 
lish with  fresh  efficiency  a rabbinical  apparatus.  Soon 
another  and  more  important  institution  was  founded  on 
the  banks  of  the  Lake  Gennesarcth,  in  the  pleasant 
town  of  Tiberias  (q.  v.).  Here  also  was  reorganized 
the  Sanhedrim  (q.  v.),  until  Judaism  was  brought  to 
stand  out  even  in  holder  relief  than  it  had  darecl  to  do 
since  the  calamities  under  Titus.  In  a great  meas- 
ure this  success  of  the  Jews  was  due  to  the  Homans, 
who,  under  the  government  of  the  Aiitonines,  mitigated 
their  severity  against  this  unfortunate  people,  restoring 
to  them  many  ancient  privileges,  and  permitting  them 
to  enjov  even  municipal  honors  in  common  with  other 
citizens.  Indeed,  of  Antoninus  Pius,  Jewish  writers  as- 
sert that  he  had  secretly  become  a convert  to  their  faith 
(comp,  dost,  Ceseh.  </..  Israelite)),  bk.  xiii,  cli.  ix),  hut  for 
this  statement  there  seems  to  he  no  very  good  reason; 
at  least  Griitz  ( ( iesclt.  dev  Jutlen,  iv,  225,  220)  does  not 
even  allude  to  it.  Most  prominently  associated  with 
Gamaliel  II  in  this  work  of  reconstruction,  among  the 
Jews  of  the  West,  were  Meir,  .Juda,  Jose,  Simon  ben- 
Joehni.  to  whose  respective  biographical  articles  we  re- 
fer lor  further  details;  also  Juda  lla-Nasi,  the  succes- 
sor of  ( lamnlicl  II.  In  Babylonia  likewise  the  Jews  had 
strained  every  nerve  to  regain  their  lost  power  and  in- 
fluence. and  they  had  established  a patriarchate  very 
much  like  that  of  the  West.  At  first  they  had  looked 
to  t lie  Homan  Jews  for  counsel,  and  had  virtually  ac- 
knowledged the.  superiority  of  their  Jerusalem  brethren 
in  all  spiritual  matters,  confining  to  temporal  matters 
alone  the  office  ofthe  Hath  (Udutha  (q.v.).or,  “Prince  of 
the  ( aptivity,”  as  they  called  their  rulers;  hut  as  the 
chances  lor  a rebuilding  of  the  Temple  and  a return 
to  power  in  the  holy  city  grew  less  and  less,  they  de- 
termined, encouraged  by  the  growing  celebrity  of* their 
own  schools  at  Nisibis  (q.  v.)  and  Nahardea  *(q.  v.),  to 
establish  their  total  independence  ofthe  schools  of  Pal- 
estine. and  to  unite  in  their  officer  Hesh  (Jelutha,  who 


was  chosen  from  those  held  to  be  descended  from  the 
house  of  David,  both  spiritual  and  temporal  authority 
(see  Etheridge,  Ini  rod.  to  lleb.  Lit.  p.  152, 153).  We  are 
told  of  the  Hesh  Gelutha  that,  after  the  consolidation  of 
the  temporal  and  spiritual  offices,  lie  exercised  a power 
almost  despotic,  and,  though  a vassal  of  the  king  of  Per- 
sia, he  assumed  among  his  own  people  the  style  of  a mon- 
arch, lived  in  great  splendor,  had  a body-guard,  counsel- 
lors, cup-bearers,  etc. ; in  fact,  his  government  was  quite 
an  imperium  in  imperio,  and  possessed  a thoroughly  sac- 
erdotal, or  at  least  theocratic  character.  His  subjects 
were,  many  of  them  at  least,  extremely  wealthy,  and 
pursued  all  sorts  of  industrial  occupations.  They  were 
merchants,  hankers,  artisans,  husbandmen,  and  shep- 
herds, and,  in  particular,  had  the  reputation  of  being 
the  best  weavers  of  the  then  famous  Babylonian  gar- 
ments. What  was  the  condition  of  the  Jews  at  this 
time  further  east  we  cannot  tell,  but  it  seems  quite 
certain  that  they  had  obtained  a footing  in  China,  if 
not  before  the  time  of  Christ,  at  least  during  the  1st  cen- 
tury. They  were  first  discovered  by  the  Jesuit  mission- 
aries of  the  17tli  century.  They  did  not  appear  ever  to 
have  heard  of  Christ,  but  they  possessed  the  book  of 
Ezra,  and  retained,  on  the  whole,  a very  decided  na- 
tionalism of  creed  and  character.  From  their  language, 
it  was  inferred  that  they  had  originally  come  from  Per- 
sia. At  one  time  they  would  appear  to  have  been  high- 
ly honored  in  China,  and  to  have  held  the  highest  civil 
and  military  offices.  In  India  also  they  gained  a foot- 
hold, and  since  the  Russian  embassies  into  Asia  Jews 
have  been  found  in  many  places  (see  North  A merican 
Jieriew,  1831,  p.  244). 

Reverting  to  the  Jews  of  the  Homan  empire,  we  find 
them  perfectly  resigned  to  their  fate,  and  comparatively 
prosperous,  until  the  time  of  Constantine  the  Great  (q. 
v.).  Indeed,  the  closing  part  of  the  2d  and  the  first 
part  ofthe  3d  century  will  ever  remain  among  the  most 
memorable  years  in  the  annals  of  Jewish  history.  It 
was  during  this  period  that  Judah  Hakkodesh  (q.  v.) 
flourished,  and  it  was  under  his  presidency  over  the 
school  at  Tiberias  that  the  Jews  proved  to  the  world 
that,  though  they  were  now  left  without  a metropolis, 
without  a temple,  and  even  without  a country,  they 
could  still  continue  to  be  a nation.  Driven  from  the 
sacred  city,  they  changed  Tiberias  into  a kind  of  Jerusa- 
lem, where,  instead  of  building  in  wood  and  stone,  they 
employed  workmen  in  rearing  another  edifice,  which 
even  to  this  day  continues  to  proclaim  the  greatness  of 
the  chosen  people  of  God  after  their  dispersion  — the 
Mislina  (q.  v.),  and  the  Gemara,  better  known  as  the 
Babylonian  Talmud  (q.  v.),  the  so-called  Oral  Late  re- 
duced to  writing,  arranged,  commented  upon,  and  ex- 
plained, which  became  in  the  course  of  a few  centuries 
a complete  Digest  or  Encyclopaedia  of  the  law,  the  re- 
ligion, and  the  nationality  of  the  Jews.  See  Hap.ijim.s3I. 

2.  We  have  already  said  that  under  the  Homan  em- 
perors of  the  2d  and  3d  centuries  the  Jews  were  in  a 
somewhat  flourishing  condition.  Quite  different  became 
their  fate  in  the  4tli  century,  when  the  emperor  of  Home 
knelt  before  the  cross,  and*  the  empire  became  a Chris- 
tian state.  Not  only  were  converts  from  Judaism  pro- 
tected from  the  resentment  of  their  countrymen,  but 
Christians  were  prohibited  from  becoming  Jews.  The 
equality  of  rights  to  which  the  pagan  emperors  had 
admitted  them  was  by  degrees  restricted.  In  short, 
from  the  establishment  of  Christianity  in  the  Homan 
empire  dates  the  great  period  of  humiliation  of  the 
Jews;  hereafter  they  change  to  a condemned  and  perse- 
cuted sect.  But  if  the  ascendency  of  Christianity  be- 
came baneful  to  the  Jews,  it  does  by  no  means  follow 
that  Christianity  is  to  hear  the  blame.  Nay,  the  Jews 
of  that  age  and  country  are  altogether  responsible  for 
their  sufferings.  They  appeared  as  the  persecutors  of 
the  new  religion  whenever  the  opportunity  presented 
itself.  Thus  they  allied  themselves  to  Arians  during 
the  revolution  of  353  in  destroying  the  property  and 
lives  of  the  Catholics.  See  Alexandkia.  Yet,  though 


JEW 


907 


JEW 


decried  “as  the  most  hateful  of  all  people,”  they  con- 
tinued to  till,  after  this  period,  important  civil  and  mil- 
itary situations,  had  especial  courts  of  justice,  and  exer- 
cised the  influence  which  springs  from  the  possession 
of  wealth  and  knowledge.  Under  the  rule  of  Julian  the 
Apostate  everything  changed  again  in  their  favor.  The 
heathen  worshipper  felt,  that  the  Jew,  as  the  opponent 
of  the  Christian,  was  his  natural  ally;  and,  fresh  from 
oppression  and  tyranny  which  a Christian  government 
had  heaped  upon  them,  the  Jews  hesitated  not  to  un- 
sheath the  sword  in  union  with  the  Apostate’s  legions. 
A gleam  of  splendor  seemed  to  shine  on  their  future 
destiny;  and  when  Julian  (q.  v.)  determined  “to  belie, 
if  possible,  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecies,”  and  gave 
them  permission  to  rebuild  their  Temple  at  Jerusalem, 
the  transport  which  they  manifested,  it  is  said,  is  one 
of  the  most  sublime  spectacles  in  their  history.  (Comp., 
as  to  the  views  of  Christian  writers  on  the  miracle  said 
to  have  been  wrought  here,  preventing  the  Jews  from 
the  rebuilding  of  the  Temple,  especially,  Etheridge,  in- 
trod,  to  Hebrew  Lit.  p.  134  sq.)  The  attempt,  as  is  well 
known,  was  signally  defeated.  The  emperor  suddenly 
died,  and  from  that  event  the  policy  adopted  by  the 
Homan  government  towards  the  Jews  was  more  or  less 
depressive,  though  never  severe.  “ In  short,  down  to 
the  time  that  terminated  the  Western  patriarchate  (A. 
1).  415),  the  conduct  of  the  emperors  towards  the  Jews 
appears  to  hnve  been  marked  by  an  inflexible  determi- 
nation to  keep  them  in  order,  tempered  by  a wise  and 
worthy  moderation.”  Thus,  in  the  code  of  Theodosius 
II,  their  patriarchs  and  officers  of  the  synagogue  are 
honorably  mentioned  as  “ Viri  spectutissimi , Must  res,  cla- 
rissimi."  They  enjoyed  absolute  liberty  and  protec- 
tion in  the  observance  of  their  ceremonies,  their  feasts, 
and  their  sabbaths.  “ Their  synagogues  were  protected 
by  law  against  the  fanatics,  who,  in  some  parts  of  Asia 
and  Italy,  attacked  and  set  them  on  lire.  Throughout 
the  empire  the  property  of  the  Jews,  their  slaves,  and 
their  lands  were  secured  to  them.  Yet  the  Christians 
were  exhorted  to  hold  no  intercourse  with  the  unbeliev- 
ing people,  and  to  beware  of  the  doctrines  of  the  syna- 
gogue. The  laws,  however,  could  not  prevent  the  zeal 
of  several  bishops  from  stirring  up  the  hatred  of  the 
populace  against  the  Jews.  Even  Ambrose  imputed  as 
a crime  to  some  Asiatic  bishops  and  monks  the  effort  to 
rebuild,  at  their  own  expense,  a synagogue  which  they 
had  demolished.”  Nor  ought  we  to  omit  here  the  dis- 
reputable acts  of  another  great  father  of  the  Christian 
Church,  Cyril  (cp  v.),  who,  in  A.D.  415,  during  the  reign 
of  Theodosius  II,  caused  the  expulsion  of  all  Jews  from 
the  bishopric  of  Alexandria. 

3.  The  condition  of  this  people  became  even  worse 
after  the  division  of  the  Roman  world  (A.I).  305)  into 
the  Eastern  and  Western  empires,  especially  in  the 
East,  under  Justin  I (A.D.  518-27),  where  they  were 
deprived  of  their  citizenship,  which  they  had  hitherto 
enjoyed,  and  were  classed  with  heretics.  Justinian  (A. 
I).  527-65)  went  still  further.  He  not  only  confirmed 
former  enactments,  but  made  others  still  more  onerous, 
intended,  no  doubt,  to  drive  the  Jews  into  the  Church. 
“The  emperor, laying  it  down  as  a principle  that  civil 
rights  could  only  belong  to  those  who  professed  the  or- 
thodox faith,  entirely  excluded  the  Jews  in  his  code 
(codex)  and  his  edicts  (novelhe).  Anything  which 
could  in  the  least  interfere  with  the  festivals  of  the 
Christian  Church  was  strictly  forbidden  them;  all  dis- 
cussion with  Christians  was  looked  upon  as  a crime,  and 
all  proselytism  punished  with  death.  Even  their  right 
of  holding  property  was  restricted  in  many  ways,  espe- 
cially in  the  matter  of  wills.  The  emperor  declared 
himself  with  especial  severity  against  the  traditions  and 
precepts  of  the  Talmud.”  Such  oppression  naturally 
enough  provoked  the  Jews  to  repeated  rebellion,  only 
to  be  subjected,  after  complete  failure  to  regain  their 
freedom,  to  increased  bitterness  of  their  cup  of  degrada- 
tion [see  Justinian],  until,  deprived  of  the  last  de- 
gree of  political  importance,  many  of  their  number 


quitted  the  Byzantine  empire  to  seek  a refuge  in  Persia 
and  Babylon,  where  the  Israelite  was  treated  with  more 
leniency.  Compare  also  Samakitans. 

As  we  have  said,  their  condition  was  more  tolerable 
in  the  Western  empire,  where,  upon  the  irruption  of  the 
barbarous  tribes,  they  were  more  favorably  regarded 
than  their  Christian  neighbors.  The  Jews  also  formed 
a part  of  all  the.  kingdoms  which  rose  up  out  of  the  ruins 
of  ancient  Rome;  but,  unfortunately,  our  information 
respecting  them,  for  a considerable  period  at  least,  is 
very  imperfect.  “ In  the  absence  of  a literature  of  their 
own,  we  know  of  them  only  through  ecclesiastical  writ- 
ers, who  take  notice  of  them  chietly  as  the  objects  of 
the  converting  zeal  of  the  Catholic  Church.  The  suc- 
cess of  the  Christian  priesthood  among  their  barbarous 
invaders  inspired  them  with  hopes  of  gaining  converts 
among  the  Jews.  But  the  circumstances  of  the  two 
classes  were  altogether  different.  Among  the  heathen, 
when  a prince  or  a successful  warrior  was  converted  to 
the  faith,  he  carried  along  with  him  all  his  subjects  or 
his  companions  in  war.  But  the  Jews  moved  in  masses 
only  in  matters  connected  with  their  own  religion;  in 
every  other  respect  they  were  wholly  independent  of 
each  other.  Their  conversion,  therefore,  could  only  be 
the  effect  of  conviction  on  the  part  of  each  individual. 
The  character  of  the  Christian  clergy  did  not  fit  them 
for  so  arduous  an  undertaking.  Their  ignorance  and 
frequent  immorality  placed  them  at  a disadvantage  in 
regard  to  the  Jews,  who  were  in  possession  of  the  O.-T. 
Scriptures,  and  had  arguments  at  command  which  their 
opponents  could  not  answer.  Besides,  there  were  no 
inducements  of  a worldly  nature  at  this  period  to  influ- 
ence the  Jews  in  exchanging  their  religion.  They  had 
no  wish  for  the  retreat  of  the  cloister,  nor  did  they  stand 
in  need  of  protection  on  account  of  deeds  of  violence  and 
rapine.  Their  habits  were  of  a description  altogether 
different  from  those  of  the  monk  or  brigand.  The  at- 
tempts of  the  clergy,  however,  were  unremitted,  and 
threats  and  blandishments  were  alternately  resorted  to, 
so  that  the  struggle  was  constant  between  Catholicism 
and  Judaism  . . . till  the  appearance  of  a new  religion 
wrought  a diversion  in  favor  of  the  latter.” 

4.  According  to  Griitz  {Gesch.  d.  Juden,  v,  81),  the  his- 
tory of  the  Jews  in  Arabia  a century  preceding  Moham- 
med’s appearance  and  during  his  activity  presents  a 
beautiful  page  in  Jewish  annals.  Many  were  the  Ara- 
bian chiefs  and  their  tribes  who  had  assimilated  with 
the  Jews  or  become  actual  converts  to  the  Mosaic  relig- 
ion. Indeed,  for  several  centuries  previous  to  Moham- 
med's appearance,  a Jewish  kingdom  had  existed  in  the 
south-west  of  Arabia,  and  some  even  claim  that  it  ex- 
tended back  previous  to  the  birth  of  Christ.  Others  as- 
sert that  a Jew  did  not  mount  the  throne  of  Yemen  (q. 
v.)  until  about  A.D.  320;  while  Griitz  (v,  91  sq.,  442  sq., 
especially  p.  443, 447)  holds  that  the  conversion  of  the 
Himvaritic  kingdom  to  Judaism  did  not  take  place  until 
the  otli  century.  So  much,  however,  is  now  settled,  that 
in  the  early  part  of  the  6tli  century  (about  A.D.  520- 
530)  the  last  king  who  reigned  over  the  country  Znnaan 
or  Zn-n-Nuwas  was  a Jew  (comp.  Perron,  Snr  V hist  air t 
des  Arabes  (leant  I'/slamisme,  in  the  Journal  Asiatique, 
1838,  Oct.,  Nov.,  p.  353  sip,  443  sq.),  and  that  only  with 
his  death  Judaism  ceased  to  be  the  religion  of  the 
llimyarites  (q.  v.).  See  article  Arabia  (Religion).  The 
influence,  then,  which  the  Jews  must  have  exerted  in 
the  Arabian  peninsula  at  the  time  of  Mohammed’s  ap- 
pearance failed  not  to  be  perceived  by  the  prophet,  and 
he  hastened  to  secure  the  aid  of  these  countrymen  of 
his,  who  were  equally,  with  his  other  Arabian  brethren, 
the  descendants  of  Abraham,  and  had  with  them  at 
least  the  common  cause  of  extirpating  idolatry  and 
Christianity.  There  was,  perhaps,  also  another  rea- 
son why  the  prophet  of  Arabia  should  have  sought  an 
association  with  the  Jews.  His  own  mother  was  a 
Jewess  by  descent,  and  had  only  in  after  life  Veen  con- 
verted to  Christianity  by  the  Syrian  monk  Sergius. 
To  her  maternal  instructions  he  is  supposed  to  have 


908 


JEW 


JEW 

been  indebted  for  his  first  religious  impressions;  and  I 
though  lie  did  not  remain  long  under  her  care,  yel  the  | 
sliglir  knowledge  of  pure  religion  which  he  thus  oh-  l 
taiued  must  certainly  have  inclined  him  to  draw  the  Jew- 
ish inti  lienee  to  his  side  in  his  attacks  against  the  idol- 
atrous hordes  of  Arabia  (comp.  Ocklev,  Saracens,  i,  98; 
You  1 lainmer,  A ssassins,  chap,  i).  The  Jews,  however, 
soon  became  convinced  that  the  cause  of  Mohammed 
was  not  their  own  ; that  his  object  was  a union  of  all 
forces  under  his  sceptre,  the  supremacy  of  Islam,  and 
the  subjugation,  if  not  ultimately  utter  extinction  of 
all  rival  religions;  and  the  compact  so  lately  formed 
was  as  quickly  broken  by  an  open  revolt.  Mohammed, 
howeve  r,  proved  the  stronger,  and  in  the  wars  which  he 
waged  against  the  different  Jewish  tribes  he  came  forth 
conqueror.  From  624  to  628  several  of  the  latter  were 
subjugated  or  wholly  destroyed,  or  obliged  to  quit  the 
Arabian  territory.  In  632  all  Jews  were  finally  driven 
from  Arabia,  and  they  settled  in  Syria.  A greater  dis- 
play of  heroism  than  the  Jews  exhibited  during  these 
struggles  with  the  Islamitish  impostor  has  never  been 
witnessed,  and  we  do  not  wonder  that  a Jewish  writer 
8hmdd  point  to  the  epoch  as  one  of  which  every  Jew 
has  reason  to  be  proud.  The  prophet  himself  very  near- 
ly paid  by  bis  life  for  the  victories  which  lie  had  gained 
over  Mosaism;  but  it  seems  that,  when  Mohammedan- 
ism had  acquired  sufficient  strength  to  spread  beyond 
Arabia,  the  animosity  towards  the  Jews  was  forgotten, 
and  they  were  kindly  treated.  So  much  is  certain,  that 
the  extension  of  the  religion  of  the  Crescent  through 
Asiatic  Turkey,  Persia,  Egypt,  Africa,  and  the  south  of 
Spain,  proved,  on  the  whole,  advantageous  to  the  Jews. 
Excepting  accidental  persecutions,  such  as  those  in  Mau- 
ritania A.D.  790,  and  in  Egypt  A.D.  1010,  they  enjoyed, 
under  the  caliphs  and  Arabian  princes,  comparative 
peace.  The  Jews  actually  entered  upon  a prosperous  i 
career  in  every  country  to  which  the  Moslem  arms  ex- 
tended.  In  North  Africa,  in  Egypt,  in  Persia,  their 
condition  greatly  improved,  and  in  Moorish  Spain, where 
their  religion  enjoyed  full  toleration,  theft  numbers 
greatly  increased,  and  they  became  famous  for  their 
learning  as  well  as  for  trade.  “In  the  new  impulse 
given  to  trade  l»y  the  progress  of  the  Moslem  arms,  the 
Jews,  ever  awake  to  their  own  interests,  took  their  ad- 
vantage. In  the  wide  extent  of  conquest,  new  wants 
were  created  by  the  advance  of  victorious  armies : king- 
doms which  had  long  ceased  to  hold  intercourse  with 
each  other  were  brought  into  union,  and  new  channels 
of  commercial  intercourse  were  opened  up;  and,  leaving  i 
the  pursuits  of  agriculture,  which  were  placed  at  a dis-  i 
advantage  by  the  policy  of  the  caliphs,  the  Jews  be- 
came the  merchants  by  whom  the  business  between^ the 
Eastern  anil  the  Western  world  was  conducted.  In  the 
court  of  the  caliphs  they  were  favorably  received,  and 
for  centuries  the  whole  management  of  the  coinage  was 
intrusted  to  them,  from  the  superior  accuracy  and  ele- 
gance with  which  they  could  execute  it,  and  from  their 
opportunities,  by  the  extent  and  variety  of  their  com- 
mercial relations,  to  give  it  tlu:  widest  circulation,  and 
at  the  same  time  to  draw  in  all  the.  previous  mint- 
ages.’ Put,  as  we  have  already  said,  it  was  not  only  in 
commercial  greatness  that  they  nourished.  Not  a few 
ol  them  distinguished  themselves  in  the  walks  of  sci- 
ence and  literature.  They  were  counsellors,  secretaries, 
astrologers,  or  physicians  to  the  Moorish  rulers;  and 
this  period  may  well  he  considered  the  golden  age.  of 
Jewish  literature.  Poets,  orators,  philosophers  of  high- 
est eminence  arose,  not  isolated,  hut  in  considerable 
numbers ; and  it.  is  a well-established  fact,  that  to  them 
is  chictly  duo — through  the  Arab  medium — the  preser- 
vation and  subsequent  spreading  in  Europe  of  ancient  I 
classical  literature,  more  especially  of  philosophy.  (Com- 
parc,  on  the  efforts  of  Ncstnrian  Christians  in  this  direc-  j 
tion.  Etheridge,  Syrian  Churches,  p.239  sq.)  Their  chief 
attention,  however,  continued  to  he  even  then  directed 
t<>  the  Talmud  and  its  literature,  especially  in  llabylo- 
uia,  where  they  still  had  a Resli-gelutha  as  their  imme- 


diate ruler.  Here  their  great  schools,  reorganized  un- 
der the  Seboraim  (thinkers),  were  put  in  a still  more 
flourishing  condition  by  the  Geonim  (eminent),  of  whom 
the  most  prominent  are  Saadias  (q.v.)  (about  892-942), 
the  translator  of  the  Pentateuch  into  Arabic,  whom,  for 
his  great  linguistic  attainments,  Aben-Ezra  designates 
as  the  hz3,  C "nan  EH  dsh;  Sherira  Gaon  (q. 

v.)  (died  997),  grandson  of  Judah,  to  whom  we  owe  our 
most  accurate  knowledge  of  the  Jewish  schools  in  Bab- 
ylonia. In  this  period  (from  the  6th  to  the  8th  centu- 
ries) the  Masora  was  developed,  followed  by  numerous 
commentaries  on  it  and  on  the  Turgum  of  Jerusalem, 
besides  a collection  of  the  earlier  JIaggadas  (e.  g.  Ben- 
hith-rabba),  now  mostly  known  as  Midrashim.  See 
Midrasii.  F’rom  Palestine,  also,  came  about  this  time 
signs  of  freshness  and  vigor  in  Jewish  literature:  the 
admirable  vowel  system;  talmudical  compends  and  writ- 
ings on  theological  cosmogony.  See  Cabala.  The 
Karaites  (q.  v.)  likewise,  according  to  some  authorities, 
originated  about  the  8th  century  (this  is,  however,  dis- 
puted now  by  Rule,  Karaite  Jews,  Loud.  1870,  sm.  8vo, 
who  believes  them  to  be.  of  much  earlier  date),  and  un- 
der their  influence  a whole  kingdom,  named  Khozar,  is 
believed  to  have  been  converted  to  Judaism,  on  the 
shores  of  the  Caspian  Sea.  See  Jehudah  (Ha-Levi) 
bkn-Samuel.  Here  deserve  mention,  also,  the  most 
celebrated  of  the  Jews  in  Africa  under  the  Saracen 
princes,  the  grammarians  Ibn-Koraisli  (q.  v.),  Dnnash 
(q.  v.)t  Chavug  (q.  v.)  ; the  lexicographer  Hefetz,  and 
Isaac  ben-Soleyman. 

Very  different  was  the  fate  of  the  Jews  under  Chris- 
tian rulers.  Few  were  the  monarchs  of  Christendom 
who  rose  above  the  barbarism  of  the  Middle  Ages.  By 
considerable  pecuniary  sacrifices  only  could  the  sons  of 
Israel  enjoy  tolerance.  In  Italy  their  lot  had  always 
been  most  severe.  Now  and  then  a Roman  pontiff 
would  afford  them  his  protection,  but,  as  a rule,  they 
have  received  only  intolerance  in  that  country.  Down 
even  to  the  time  of  the  deposition  of  Pius  IX  from  the 
temporal  power,  it  has  been  the  barbarous  custom,  on  the 
last  Saturday  before  the  Carnival,  to  compel  the  Jews  to 
proceed  “ en  masse”  to  the  capitol,  and  ask  permission  of 
the  pontiff  to  reside  in  the  sacred  city  another  year.  At 
the  foot  of  the  hill  the  petition  was  refused  them,  but, 
after  much  entreaty,  they  were  granted  the  favor  when 
they  had  reached  the  summit,  and,  as  their  residence, 
the  Ghetto  was  assigned  them. 

Their  circumstances  were  most  favorable  among  the 
Franks.  Charlemagne  is  said  to  have  had  implicit 
confidence  not  only  in  the  ability,  but  also  in  the  integ- 
rity of  the  Jewish  merchants  in  his  realm,  and  he  even 
sent  the  Jew  Isaac  as  his  ambassador  to  the  court  of 
Ilaroun  Alraschid.  To  Isaac’s  faithfulness  and  ability 
may  perhaps  be  attributed  the  great  privileges  which 
the  Jews  enjoyed  under  Louis  le  Debonnaire,  who  is 
said  to  have  made  them  “all-powerful.”  Put  if  these 
two  Christian  rulers  were  noble  and  generous  towards 
the  Jews,  the  clergy  of  their  day  by  no  means  shared 
the  same  feeling  towards  the  despised  race.  Many  a 
bishop  of  the  Church  of  Rome,  and  many  a member  of 
the  lower  orders,  were  heard  before  the  throne  and  be- 
fore the  people  complaining  of  the  kind  treatment  which 
the  Jews  received.  One.  prelate  hesitated  not  to  con- 
demn the  Jews  because  the  “country  people  looked 
upon  them  as  the  only  people  of  God  !”  Hence  we  can- 
not wonder  that  after  t lie  decease  of  these  two  noble 
monarchs,  when  the  weaker  Carlovingians  began  to  rule, 
anil  the  Church  to  advance  with  imperious  strides,  a 
melancholy  change  ensued — kings,  bishops,  feudal  bar- 
ons, and  even  the  municipalities,  all  joined  in  a carni- 
val of  persecution,  and  the  history  of  the  Jews  became 
nothing  else  than  a successive  series  of  massacre.  (See 
below,  5 ; Brit,  and  For.  Rev.  1842,  p.  459  sq.) 

In  England  the  Jews  made  their  first  appearance 
during  the  period  of  the  Saxons.  They  are  mentioned 
in  the  ecclesiastical  constitutions  of  Egbert,  archbish- 


JEW 


909 


JEW 


op  of  York,  A.D,  740 ; they  are  also  named  in  a charter 
to  the  monks  of  Croyland,  A.L).  833.  They  enjoyed 
many  privileges  under  William  the  Conqueror  and  his 
son,  William  Rufus,  who  favored  them  in  many  ways. 
The  lands  of  the  vacant  bishoprics  were  farmed  out  to 
them,  which  proves  that  the  Jews  must  have  been  ag- 
riculturists at  this  time:  while  in  the  schools  they  held 
many  honorable  positions.  Thus,  at  Oxford,  even  at 
this  time  a great  seat  of  learning,  they  possessed  them- 
selves three  halls — Lombard  Hall,  Moses  Hall,  and  Ja- 
cob Hall,  to  which  Christians  as  well  as  Jews  went  for 
instruction  in  the  Hebrew  tongue.  They  enjoyed  these 
and  other  privileges  until  the  period  of  the  Crusades 
suddenly  changed  everybody  against  them.  (See  below.) 

In  Germany  their  position  was  perhaps  more  servile 
than  in  any  other  European  country.  They  were  re- 
garded as  the  sovereign’s  property  (Jcammerknechte, 
chamber-servants),  and  were  bought  and  sold.  They 
had  come  to  that  country  as  early  as  the  days  of  Con- 
stantine, but  they  did  not  become  a numerous  class  until 
the  days  of  the  Crusaders,  and  we  therefore  postpone 
further  treatment  to  the  next  section. 

In  Spain  their  circumstances  at  first  were  most  for- 
tunate. Especially  during  the  wdiole  brilliant  period 
of  Moorish  rule  in  the  Peninsula  they  shared  the  same 
favorable  condition  as  in  all  other  countries  to  which 
the  Moslem  arms  had  extended ; “ they  enjoyed,  indeed, 
what  must  have  seemed  to  them,  in  comparison  with 
their  ordinary  lot,  a sort  of  Elysian  life.  They  were  al- 
most on  terms  of  equality  with  their  Mohammedan  mas- 
ters, rivalled  them  in  civilization  and  letters,  and  prob- 
ably surpassed  them  in  wealth.  The  Spanish  Jews  were 
consequently  of  a much  higher  type  than  their  brethren 
in  other  parts  of  Europe.  They  were  not  reduced  to 
the  one  degrading  occupation  of  usury,  though  they  fol- 
lowed that  too;  on  the  contrary,  they  were  husband- 
men, landed  proprietors,  physicians,  financial  adminis- 
trators, etc. ; they  enjoyed  special  privileges,  and  had 
courts  of  justice  for  themselves.  Nor  was  this  state  of 
things  confined  to  those  portions  of  Spain  under  the 
sovereignty  of  the  Moors;  the  Christian  monarchs  of 
the  north  and  middle  gradually  came  to  appreciate  the 
value  of  their  services,  and  we  find  them  for  a time  pro- 
tected and  encouraged  by  the  rulers  of  Aragon  and  Cas- 
tile. But  the  extravagance  and  consequent  poverty  of 
the  nobles,  as  well  as  the  increasing  power  of  the  priest- 
hood, ultimately  brought  about  a disastrous  change. 
The  estates  of  the  nobles,  and,  it  is  also  believed,  those 
attached  to  the  cathedrals  and  churches,  were  in  many 
cases  mortgaged  to  the  Jews;  hence  it  was  not  diflieidt 
for  ‘conscience’  to  get  up  a persecution,  when  goaded 
to  its  ‘ duty’  by  the  pressure  of  want  and  shame.  Grad- 
ually the  Jews  were  deprived  of  the  privilege  of  living 
where  they  pleased;  their  rights  were  diminished,  and 
their  taxes  augmented”  (Chambers).  More  in  the  next 
paragraph. 

5.  In  tracing  the  history  of  the  Jewish  people  in  the 
Middle  Ages,  the  Crusades  form  a distinct  epoch  amid 
these  centuries  of  darkness  and  turmoil.  If  the  Jew  had 
hitherto  suffered  at  the  hand  of  the  Christian,  and  had 
been  gradually  reduced  in  social  privilege,  he  was  now 
grossly  abused  in  the  name  of  the  religion  of  him  who 
taught,  “ Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.”  Undertaken 
to  bring  about  a union  of  the  Christians  of  the  world— 
“that  ideal  of  a Christian  commonwealth  which  forms 
the  centre  of  the  polemical  and  religious  life  of  the  Mid- 
dle Ages’— the  crusading  movement,  was  inaugurated 
by  a wholesale  massacre  and  persecution  first  of  the  Jew, 
and  afterwards  of  the  Mussulman.  The  latter,  perhaps, 
had  given  just  provocation  by  his  endeavors  to  sup- 
plant the  Cross  by  the  Crescent,  but  what  had  the  inof- 
fensive and  non-proselvting  Jew  done  to  deserve  sueli 
acts  of  violence  and  rapine?  Shut  out  from  all  oppor- 
tunities for  the  development  of  their  better  qualities, 
the  Jews  were  gradually  reduced  to  a decline  both  in 
character  and  condition.  From  a learned,  influential, 
and  powerful  class  of  the  community,  wc  find  them,  after 


the.  inauguration  of  the  Crusades,  sinking  into  misera- 
ble outcasts;  the  common  prey  of  clergy,  and  nobles, 
and  burghers,  and  existing  in  a state  worse  than  slav- 
ery itself.  The  Christians  deprived  the  Jews  even  of 
the  right  of  holding  real  estate,  and  confined  them  to 
the  narrower  channels  of  traffic.  “Their  ambition  being 
thus  fixed  upon  one  subject,  they  soon  mastered  all  the 
degrading  arts  of  accumulating  gain;  and  prohibited 
from  investing  their  gains  in  the  purchase  of  land,  they 
found  a more  profitable  employment  of  it  in  lending  it 
at  usurious  interest  to  the  thoughtless  and  extravagant. 
The  effect  of  this  was  inevitable.  At  a time  when  com- 
mercial pursuits  were  held  in  contempt,  the  assistance 
of  the  Jews  became  indispensable  to  the  nobles,  whose 
hatred  rose  in  proportion  to  their  obligations;  and, 
where  there  was  the  power,  the  temptation  to  cancel  the 
debt  by  violence  became  irresistible.”  A raid  against 
the  Jews  was  a favorite  pastime  of  a bankrupt  noble, 
and  we  need  not  wonder  that  the  Jew  had  recourse  to 
the  only  revenge  that  was  left  him  to  atone  for  this 
gross  injustice — the  exaction  of  a more  exorbitant  gain 
when  the  opportunity  was  afforded  him.  Thus,  in  Eng- 
land, at  the  enthronement  of  Richard  I (1189),  the  Cru- 
saders, on  their  departure  for  the  Holy  Land,  hesitated 
not  to  inaugurate  their  warfare  by  a pillage  of  the  Jews. 
In  the  desperate  defence  which  the  latter  waged  against 
the  knights  of  England  in  the  castle  at  York,  finding 
resistance  useless,  500  of  them,  having  first  destroyed 
everything  of  value  that  belonged  to  them,  murdered 
their  wives  and  children,  and  then  deprived  themselves 
of  life,  rather  than  fall  a prey  to  Christian  warriors. 
(See  Hume,  History  of  England.')  A like  treatment  the  . 
Jews  received  under  the  two  following  monarchs ; their 
lives  and  wealth  were  protected  only  for  a considera- 
tion. With  the  tyrannical  treatment  they  received  at 
the  hand  of  king  John  (q.  v.)  every  reader  of  history 
is  familiar.  Under  Henry  III  they  were  treated  still 
worse,  if  possible.  The  reign  of  Edward  I (1272-1307) 
finally  brought  suddenly  to  a terminus  the  miserable 
condition  of  this  people  by  a wholesale  expulsion  from 
the  kingdom  (A.D.  1290),  after  a vain  attempt  on  the 
part  of  the  priesthood  to  convert  them  to  Christianity, 
preceded,  of  course,  by  a wholesale  confiscation  of  their 
property.  These  exiles  amounted  to  about  16,000.  They 
emigrated  mostly  to  Germany  and  France.  In  the  former 
country  the  same  sort  of  treatment  befell  them.  In  the 
Empire  they  had  to  pay  all  manner  of  iniquitous  taxes 
—body-tax,  capitation  tax,  trade  taxes,  coronation  tax, 
and  to  present  a multitude  of  gifts,  to  mollify  the  ava- 
rice or  supply  the  necessities  of  emperor,  princes,  and 
barons.  It  did  not  suffice,  however,  to  save  them  from  the 
loss  of  their  property.  The  populace  and  the  lower  cler- 
gy also  must  be  satisfied ; they,  too,  had  passions  to  grat- 
ify. A wholesale  slaughter  of  the  “ enemies  of  Chris- 
tianity” was  inaugurated.  Treves,  Metz,  Cologne,  Mentz, 
Worms,  Spires,  Strasburg,  and  other  cities,  were  deluged 
with  the  blood  of  the  “ unbelievers.”  The  word  Hep 
(said  to  be  the  initials  of  Hierosolyma  est  perdita , Jeru- 
salem is  taken)  throughout  all  the  cities  of  the  empire 
became  the  signal  for  massacre,  and  if  an  insensate 
monk  sounded  it  along  the  streets,  it  threw  the  rabble 
into  paroxysms  of  murderous  rage.  The  choice  of  death 
or  conversion  was  given  to  the  Jews,  but  few  were 
found  willing  to  purchase  their  life  by  that  form  of  per- 
jury. Rather  than  subject  their  offspring  to  conver- 
sion and  such  Christian  training,  fathers  presented  their 
breast  to  the  sword  after  putting  their  children  to  death, 
and  wives  and  virgins  sought  refuge  from  the  brutality 
of  the  soldiers  by  throwing  themselves  into  the  river 
with  stones  fastened  to  their  bodies.  (Comp.  Gibbon, 
Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  [Harpers’  edit.], 
v,  554.)  Not  less  than  17,000  were  supposed  to  have 
perished  in  the  German  empire  during  these  persecu- 
tions ; yet  those  who  survived  clung  to  the  land  that  had 
given  them  birth,  and  suffered  from  pillage  and  mal- 
treatment until  they  were  expelled  by  force — from  Vi- 
enna (A.D.  1196),  Mecklenburg  (1225),  Breslau  (1226), 


910 


JEW 


JEW 

Brandenburg  (1243),  Frankfort  (1241),  Munich  (1285), 
Xurcnburg  (139U),  Prague  (1391),  and  Ratisbon  (1476). 
The  “ Black  Death,”  in  particular,  occasioned  a great 
and  widespread  persecution  (1348-1350).  They  were 
murdered  and  burned  by  thousands,- and  many  even 
sought  death  amidst  the  contiagrations  of  their  syna- 
gogues. From  Switzerland  to  Silesia  the  land  was 
drenched  with  innocent  blood,  and  even  the  interfer- 
ence of  the  emperor  and  the  pope  long  proved  insuffi- 
cient to  put  an  end  to  the  atrocities  that  were  perpetra- 
ted. When  the  race  had  almost  disappeared  from  Ger- 
many, feelings  of  humanity  as  well  as  the  interests  of 
his  kingdom  caused  Charles  IV  to  concede  them  some 
privileges;  and  in  the  Golden  Hull  (I35G)  the  future 
condition  of  the  Jews  was  so  clearly  pointed  out,  that  it 
prevented,  in  a great  measure,  further  bloodshed,  though 
it  still  continued  to  leave  them  subject  to  oppression 
and  injustice.  Their  residence  was  forbidden  in  some 
places,  and  in  many  cities  to  which  they  had  access 
they  were  confined  to  certain  quarters  or  streets,  known 
as  ghettos  or  Jews’  streets  ( Judenstrasse ). 

Xo  better,  nay  worse,  if  possible,  was  their  condition 
in  France  from  the  1 1th  to  the  1 6th  centuries.  All  man- 
ner of  wild  stories  were  circulated  against  them : it  was 
said  that  they  were  wont  to  steal  the  host,  and  to  con- 
temptuously stick  it  through  and  through ; to  inveigle 
Christian  children  into  their  houses  and  murder  them; 
to  poison  wells,  etc.  They  were  also  hated  here  as  else- 
where on  plea  of  excessive  usury.  Occasionally  their 
debtors,  high  and  low,  hesitated  not  to  have  recourse  to 
what  they  called  Christian  religion  as  a very  easy  means 
of  getting  rid  of  t heir  obligations.  Thus  Philippe  Au- 
gustus { 1 173- 1223),  under  whose  rule  the  Jews  seem  to 
have  held  mortgages  of  enormous  value  on  the  estates 
of  Church  and  state  dignitaries,  simply  confiscated  the 
debts  due  to  them,  forced  them  to  surrender  the  pledges 
in  their  possession,  seized  their  goods,  and  finally  even 
banished  them  from  France;  but  the  decree  appears  to 
li  ivc  taken  eflect  chiefly  in  the  north;  yet  in  less  than 
twenty  years  the  same  proud  but  wasteful  monarch  was 
glad  to  let  them  come  back  and  take  up  their  abode  in 
Pans.  Louis  IX  (1226-1270),  who  was  a very  pious 
prince,  among  other  relif/ious  acts,  cancelled  a third  of 
the  claims  which  the  Jews  had  against  his  subjects, 
''for  (hr  benefit  of  his  soul."  An  edict  was  also  issued 
for  the  seizure  and  destruction  of  their  sacred  books, 
ami  we  are  told  that  at  Paris  twenty-four  carts  filled 
with  copies  of  the  Talmud , etc.,  were  consigned  to  the 
flames.  .See  Tai.mui>.  The  Jews  were  also  forbidden 
to  hoht  social  intercourse  with  their  Christian  neigh- 
bors, and  the  murderer  of  a Jew,  if  he  were  a Chris- 
tian, went  unpunished.  Xced  we  wonder,  then,  that 
when,  in  the  following  century,  a religious  epidemic, 
known  as  the  Kising  of  the  Shepherds,  seized  the  com- 
mon people  in  Languedoc  and  the  central  regions  of 
l ranee  (A. I).  1321 ),  they  indulged  in  horrible  massacres 
of  the  detested  race;  so  horrible,  indeed,  that  in  one 
place,  Verdun,  on  the  Garonne,  the  Jews,  m the  mad- 
ness <if  their  agony,  threw  down  their  children  to  the 
('hristion  mob  from  the  tower  in  which  they  were  gath- 
ered, hoping,  but  m vain,  to  appease  the  diemoniacal  fury 
of  t heir  assailants.  “ ( >ne  shudders  to  read  of  what  fol- 
lowed; m whole  provinces  every  Jew  was  burned.  At 
( hi  non  a drop  ditch  was  dug,  an  enormous  pile  raised, 
and  I GO  if  hath  seres  burned  together!  Yet  Christianity 
never  produced  more  resolute  martyrs;  as  they  sprang 
into  the  place  of  torment,  they  sang  hymns  as  though 
they  were  going  to  a wedding;”  and,  though  “savage 
and  horrible  as  such  self-devotion  is.  it  is  impossible  not 
to  admire  the  strength  of  heart  which  it  discovers;  and, 
wit  hout  inspiration,  one  might  foretell  that,  so  long  as 
a solitary  heart  of  this  description  was  left  to  beat,  it 
Would  treasure  its  national  distinction  as  its  sole  remain- 
ing pride.”  At  last,  in  1504,  they  were  indefinitely  ban- 
ished from  France,  and  the  sentence  rigidly  executed 
(see  Schmidt,  Geseh.  Frankreivhs,  i,  504  sq.)* 

Such  is  the  frightful  picture  of  horrors  and  gloom 


which  the  Jewrs  of  Germany,  France,  England,  and  Ita- 
ly offer  in  their  medneval  history.  “ Circumscribed  in 
their  rights  by  decrees  and  law  s of  the  ecclesiastical  as 
well  as  civil  power,  excluded  from  all  honorable  occupa- 
tions, driven  from  place  to  place,  from  province  to  prov- 
ince, compelled  to  subsist  almost  exclusively  by  mer- 
cantile occupations  and  usury,  overtaxed  and  degraded, 
in  the  cities,  kept  in  narrow  quarters,  and  marked  in 
their  dress  with  signs  of  contempt,  plundered  by  lawless 
barons  and  penniless  princes,  an  easy  prey  to  all  parties 
during  the  civil  feuds,  again  and  again  robbed  of  their 
pecuniary  claims,  owned  and  sold  as  serfs  (chamber- 
servants)  by  the  emperors,  butchered  by  mobs  and  re- 
volted peasants,  chased  by  the  monks,  and  finally  burn- 
ed in  thousands  by  the  Crusaders,  who  also  burned  their 
brethren  at  Jerusalem  in  their  synagogues,  or  tormented 
by  ridicule,  abusive  sermons,  monstrous  accusations  and 
trials,  threats  and  experiments  of  conversion.” 

In  Spain  and  Portugal,  indeed,  the  days  of  prosperity 
to  the  Jew’s  lingered  longest.  As  we  have  already  no- 
ticed, they  enjoyed  in  these  countries,  while  they  re- 
mained nnder  Moorish  ride,  almost  equality  with  the 
Moslems.  As  in  France  under  the  Carlovingians,  so  in 
Spain  under  Saracen  rule,  their  literature  betokens  an 
uncommon  progress  in  civilization — a progress  which 
left  far  in  the  distance  all  other  nations,  even  those  who 
professed  to  unfurl  the  banner  of  the  Cross.  But  this 
was  especially  true  of  the  Spanish  Jews.  Acquainted 
with  the  Arabic,  they  coidd  easily  dive  into  the  treas- 
ures of  that  language;  and  the  facility  with  which  the 
Jews  mastered  all  languages  made  them  ready  inter- 
preters between  Mussulman  and  Christian.  It  was 
through  their  original  thinkers,  such  as  Aviccbron  (Ibn- 
Gebirol,  q.  v.)  and  Moses  Mainionides  (q.  v.),  that  the 
West  became  leavened  with  Greek  and  Oriental  thought 
(Lewes,  Philos,  ii,  63),  and  the  same  persecuted  and  dc-‘ 
spised  race  must  be  regarded  as  the  chief  instruments 
whereby  the  Arabian  philosophy  was  made  effective  on 
European  cidture.  “Dans  le  monde  Musulman  comme 
dans  le  monde  chreticn,”  said  the  late  professor  Munk, 
of  Paris  ( Melanges , p.  335),  “les  Juifs  exelns  de  la  vie 
publique,  voues  ii  la  haine  et  au  mdpris  par  la  religion 
dominante,  tonjours  en  pre'sence  des  dangers  dont  les 
mena^ait  le  fanatisme  de  la  foule,  ne  trouvaient  la 
tranquillite  et  le  bonheur  que  dans  un  isolement  com- 
plct.  Ignores  de  la  societe  les  savants  Juifs  vouaient 
aux  sciences  un  culte  desinteresse."  But  all  their  abil- 
ity, learning,  and  wealth  did  not  long  ward  off  the  un- 
restrained religious  hatred  of  the  common  people,  who 
felt  no  need  of  culture,  and  enjoyed  no  opportunities  to 
borrow  money  from  them.  The  wrorld,  which  before 
seemed  to  have  made  a kind  of  tacit  agreement  to  allow 
them  time  to  regain  wealth  that  might  be  plundered, 
and  blood  that  might  be  poured  out  like  water,  now 
seemed  to  have  entered  into  a conspiracy  as  extensive 
to  drain  the  treasures  and  the  life  of  this  devoted  race. 
Kingdom  after  kingdom,  and  people  after  people,  fol- 
lowed the  dreadful  example,  and  strove  to  peal  the  knell 
of  the  descendants  of  Israel ; till  at  length,  what  we 
blush  to  call  Christianity,  with  the  Inquisition  in  its 
train,  cleared  the  fair  and  smiling  provinces  of  Spain  of 
this  industrious  part  of  its  population,  and  brought  a 
self-inflicted  curse  of  barrenness  upon  the  benighted  land 
(Milman,  Hist,  of  Jeics , iii ; comp.  Prescott,  Ferd.  and  Is- 
abella, pt.  i,  ch.  vii ; .lost,  Geseh.  d.  Israel'iten , vi,  75, 110, 
184,  216,  200 ; Da  Costa,  Israel  and  the  Gentiles,  p.  221). 

The  condition  of  the  Jew’s  in  Spain  continued  to  be 
favorable  from  near  the  close  of  the  11th  century  (to 
which  time  we  traced  them  in  the  preceding  sec- 
tion) until  the  middle  of  the  14tli  century,  when  the 
star  of  their  fortune  may  be  said  to  have  culminated. 
It  is  true,  the  Mohammedan  power  was  now  on  the 
w’ane,  but  then  the  Christian  rulers  felt  not  yet  suffi- 
ciently well  established  in  the  peninsula  to  take  severe 
measures  against  the  Jews  (I>a  Costa,  Israel  and  the 
Gentiles,  p.  189  sq.,  224).  A capitation  tax  was  paid  by 
the  numerous  synagogues,  and  presents  were  made  to 


JEW 


Oil 


JEW 


the  infante,  the  nobility,  or  the  Church ; but  in  every 
other  respect  the  Jews  lived  like  a separate  nation, 
framing  and  executing  their  own  civil  and  criminal 
jurisdiction.  It  is  true  they  had  not  here  a Reshgelu- 
tha  as  their  authority,  but  a substitute  was  afforded 
them  in  the  “ rabbino  mayor,”  the  Jewish  magistrate, 
who  “exercised  his  right  in  the  king’s  name,  and  sealed 
his  decrees,  which  the  king  alone  could  annul,  with  the 
royal  arms.  He  made  journeys  through  the  country 
to  take  cognizance  of  all  Jewish  affairs,  and  inquire 
into  the  disposal  of  the  revenues  of  the  different  syna- 
gogues. He  had  under  him  a ‘ vice-rabbino  mayor,’  a 
chancellor,  a secretary,  and  several  other  officers.  T wo 
different  orders  of  rabbins,  or  judges,  acted  under  him 
in  the  towns  and  districts  of  the  kingdom.”  The  first 
important  danger  that  threatened  them  was  in  1218, 
when  a multitude  of  foreign  knights  and  soldiers  gather- 
ed together  at  Toledo  preparatory  to  a crusade  against 
the  Moors.  The  campaign  was  to  be  opened,  as  had 
been  done  in  Germany,  by  a general  massacre  of  the 
Jews;  but,  by  the  intervention  of  Alphonso  IX,  sur- 
named  the  (rood,  the  attempt  was  in  a great  measure 
defeated,  and  the  Jews  continued  to  prosper,  after  a [ 
similar  attempt  made  by  the  Cortes  of  Madrid  had  I 
failed,  until  the  middle  of  the  11th  century.  By  this  ! 
time  the  general  hatred  against  the  Jews  had  spread  j 
alarmingly  in  all  countries  of  Europe,  as  we  have  al- 
ready had  occasion  to  see,  in  consequence  of  the  terror 
which  the  black  death  caused  throughout  that  portion  I 
of  the  globe.  They  were  now  also  in  Spain  confined  to 
particular  quarters  of  cities  in  which  they  resided,  and 
attempts  were  made  for  their  conversion.  In  1250  an  in- 
stitution had  even  been  erected  for  the  express  purpose  of  1 
training  men  to  carry  on  successfully  controversies  with 
the  Jews,  and,  if  possible,  to  bring  about  their  conver- 
sion. But  very  different  results  followed  the  bloody  j 
persecutions  which  were  actually  and  successfully  inau-  j 
gurated  against  them  at  Seville  in  1391,  1392.  These  ' 
were  the  outbursts  of  priestly  and  popular  violence,  and  ' 
had  no  sooner  commenced  in  that  city  than  Cordova, 
Toledo,  Valencia,  Catalonia,  and  the  island  of  Majorca 
followed  in  its  train;  immense  numbers  were  murdered, 
and  wholesale  theft  was  perpetrated  by  the  religious 
rabble.  Escape  was  possible  only  through  flight  to 
other  countries,  or  by  accepting  baptism  at  the  point 
of  the  sword,  and  the  number  of  such  enforced  converts 
to  Christianity  is  reckoned  at  no  less  than  200,000.  If 
the  persecutions  in  Germany,  England,  France,  and  else- 
where had  severely  tried  the  Jewish  race,  these  persecu- 
tions in  Spain  completely  extinguished  all  hope  of  fur- 
ther joy,  for  they  hit,  so  to  speak,  the  very  core  of  the 
Jewish  heart,  and  form  a sad  turning-point  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  Jews,  and  the  15th  of  March,  1391,  forms  a 
memorable  day  not  only  for  the  Jew,  not  only  for  the 
Spaniard,  but  for  all  the  world ; it  was  the  seed  from 
which  germinated  that  monster  called  the  Inquisition 
(Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  viii,  61  sq.).  Daily  now  the  con- 
dition of  this  people,  even  in  the  Spanish  peninsula, 
grew  worse  and  worse,  until  it  fairly  beggars  descrip- 
tion. A.D.  1412-1414  they  had  to  endure  another  bloody 
persecution  throughout  the  peninsula,  and  by  the  mid- 
dle of  the  15th  century  we  read  of  nothing  but  perse-  ! 
cution,  violent  conversion,  massacre,  and  the  tortures  of  | 
the  Inquisition.  “Thousands, were  burned  alive.  ‘In 
one  year  280  were  burned  in  Seville  alone.’  Sometimes 
the  popes,  and  even  the  nobles,  shuddered  at  the  fiend-  j 
ish  zeal  of  the  inquisitors,  and  tried  to  mitigate  it,  but 
in  vain.  At  length  the  hour  of  final  horror  came.  In 
A.I).  1492,  Ferdinand  and  Isabella  issued  an  edict  for  the 
expulsion,  within  four  months,  of  all  who  refused  to  be- 
come Christians,  with  the  strict  inhibition  to  take  nei- 
ther gold  nor  silver  out  of  the  country.  The  Jews  of- 
fered an  enormous  sum  for  its  revocation,  and  for  a mo- 
ment the  sovereigns  hesitated ; but  Torquemada,  the 
Dominican  inquisitor-general,  dared  to  compare  his  roy- 
al master  and  mistress  to  Judas;  they  shrank  from  the 
awful  accusation ; and  the  ruin  of  the  most  industrious, 


the  most  thriving,  the  most  peaceable,  and  the  most 
learned  of  their  subjects — and  consequently  of  Spain  her. 
self — became  irremediable.”  (See  Inquisition  in  this 
volume,  p.  601  sq.)  This  is  perhaps  the  grandest  and 
most  melancholy  hour  in  their  modern  history.  It  is 
considered  by  themselves  as  great  a calamity  as  the  de- 
struction of  Jerusalem.  300,000  (some  even  give  the 
numbers  at  650,000  or  800,000)  resolved  to  abandon  the 
country,  which  a residence  of  seven  centuries  had  made 
almost  a second  Judaea  to  them.  The  incidents  that 
marked  their  departure  are  heart-rending.  Almost  ev- 
ery land  was  shut  against  them.  Some,  however,  ven- 
tured into  France,  others  into  Italy,  Turkey,  and  Mo- 
rocco, in  the  last  of  which  countries  they  suffered  the 
most  frightful  privations.  Of  the  80,000  who  obtained 
an  entrance  into  Portugal  on  payment  of  eight  gold 
pennies  a head,  but  only  for  eight  months,  to  enable 
them  to  obtain  means  of  departure  to  other  countries, 
many  lingered  after  the  expiration  of  the  appointed  time, 
and  the  poorer  were  sold  as  slaves.  In  A.I).  1495,  king 
Emanuel  commanded  them  to  quit  his  territories,  but 
at  the  same  time  issued  a secret  order  that  all  Jewish 
children  under  14  years  of  age  should  be  torn  from  their 
mothers,  retained  in  Portugal,  and  brought  up  as  Chris- 
tians. Agony  drove  the  Jewish  mothers  into  madness; 
they  destroyed  their  children  with  their  own  hands, 
and  threw  them  into  wells  and  rivers,  to  prevent  them 
from  falling  into  the  hands  of  their  persecutors.  Nei- 
ther were  the  miseries  of  those  who  embraced  Chris- 
tianity, but  who,  for  the  most  part,  secretly  adhered  to 
their  old  faith  (Onssim,  A nussim — “ yielding  to  violence, 
forced  ones”)  less  dreadful.  It  was  not  until  the  17th 
century  that  persecution  ceased.  Autos-da-fe  of  sus- 
pected converts  happened  as  late  as  A.D.  1655  (Cham- 
bers, s.  v.).  See  Markanos. 

6.  The  discovery  of  America,  the  restoration  of  letters 
occasioned  by  the  invention  of  the  art  of  printing,  and 
the  reformation  in  the  Christian  Church  opened  in  a 
certain  sense  a somewhat  more  beneficial  a>ra  to  the 
Jews.  It  is  true,  they  reaped  the  benefits  of  this  trans- 
formation less  than  anv  other  portion  of  European  soci- 
ety; “still,  the  progress  of  civilization  was  silently  pre- 
paring the  way  for  greater  justice  being  done  to  this 
people ; and  their  conduct,  in  circumstances  where  they 
were  allowed  scope  for  the  development  of  their  better 
qualities,  tended  great ly  to  the  removal  of  the  preju- 
dices that  existed  against  them.”  They  found  a friend 
in  Renchlin  (q.  v.),  who  made  strenuous  exertions  in 
behalf  of  the  preservation  of  Jewish  literature.  Lu- 
ther, in  the  earlier  part  of  his  public  career,  is  supposed 
to  have  favored  the  conversion  of  the  Jews  by  violent 
means  (questioned  by  some  ; comp.  Griitz,  Gesckichte  des 
Juden,  ix,  220  sq. ; 333  sq. ; Etheridge,  p. 440  sq.;  Jost, 
Gesch . des  Judenthums  u.  s.  Sekten , iii,  217) ; and  it  is  a 
fact  that  all  through  Germany,  where  the  Protestant 
element,  if  any  where,  was  strong  in  those  days,  their 
lot  actually  became  harder  than  it  had  ever  been  be- 
fore. See  below.  On  the  other  hand,  we  find  a Roman 
pontiff  (Sixtus  V,  1585-90)  animated  by  a far  more 
wise  and  kindly  spirit  towards  them  than  any  Protes- 
tant prince  of  liis  time.  In  1588  he  abolished  all  the 
persecuting  statutes  of  his  predecessors,  allowed  them  to 
settle  and  trade  in  every  city  of  his  dominions,  to  enjoy 
the  free  exercise  of  their  religion,  and,  in  respect  to  the 
administration  of  justice  and  taxation,  placed  them  on  a 
footing  with  the  rest  of  his  subjects.  Of  course,  all  this 
was  done  for  a consideration.  The  Jews  had  money , 
and  it  he  made  them  furnish  freely,  but  then  they  en- 
joyed at  least  certain  advantages  by  virtue  of  their  pos- 
sessions. 

Strange  indeed  must  it  appear  to  the  student  of  his- 
tory that  one  of  the  first  countries  in  modern  days  that 
rose  above  the  barbarism  of  the  Middle  Ages,  and  grant- 
ed the  Jews  the  most  liberal  concessions,  was  a part  of 
the  possessions  of  their  most  inveterate  enemy,  Philip 
II  of  Spain,  and  that  one  of  the  principal  causes  contrib- 
uting to  this  change  was  the  very  instrument  selected 


912 


JEW 


JEW 

bv  the  hatred  of  the  Dominicans— the  bloody  Inquisi-  | 
ti'on.  It  was  the  active,  energetic,  intelligent  Holland-  1 
er,  readilv  appreciating  the  business  qualifications  ol  his 
Jewish  brother,  that  permitted  him  to  settle  by  his  side 
as  earlv  as  ltlo.i.  It  is  true,  the  Jew  did  not  enjoy  even 
in  Holland  the  rights  of  citizenship  until,  after  nearly 
two  hundred  years  of  trial  (17%),  he  had  been  found  the 
equal  of  his  Christian  neighbor  whenever  he  was  per- 
mitted to  exchange  the  garb  of  a slave  for  that  of  a , 
master.  It  was  Holland  that  afforded  to  the  hunted  j 
victims  of  a cmel  and  relined  fanaticism  a resting-place  ' 
on  which  they  could  encamp,  and  finally  enjoy  even 
equality  with  the  natives  of  the  soil.  Many  of  the  Por- 
tuguese Jews  (so  the  Jews  of  the  Spanish  peninsida  are 
termed)  left  their  mother  country,  and  in  this  new  re- 
public vied  with  its  citizens  in  the  highest  qualities  of 
commercial  greatness.  Soon  came  the  Jews  of  Poland 
and  Germany  also  to  enjoy  the  special  privileges  which 
the  Dutch  stood  ready  to  administer  to  them.  Denmark 
and  Hamburg  partook  of  the  liberal  spirit,  and  there  also 
the  Jews  were  heartily  welcomed.  In  England,  also, 
they  soon  after  (1055),  by  the  success  of  the  Indepen- 
dents, gained  anew  a foothold.  It  is  true,  they  did  not 
really  obtain  public  permission  to  settle  again  in  the 
island  until  the  reign  of  Charles  II  (1000-85),  but 
Cromwell,  it  is  generally  believed,  favored  their  admis- 
sion to  the  country,  and  no  doubt  permitted  it  quietly 
in  a great  many  instances.  The  right  to  possess  land, 
however,  they  did  not  acquire  until  1723,  and  the  right 
of  citizenship  was  not  conferred  on  them  until  1753. 
Into  Prance,  also,  they  were,  in  the  middle  of  the  16th 
century,  admitted  again,  though,  of  course,  at  first  the 
plans  which  opened  their  gates  to  them  were  few  in- 
deed. Most  of  those  who  came  thither  were  relics  of 
that  mighty  host  of  exiles  which  had  left  Spain  and 
Portugal  after  the  establishment  of  the  Inquisition  (see 
above).  They  went  in  considerable  numbers  to  the 
provinces  Avignon,  Lorraine,  and  Alsace,  and  of  the  cit- 
ies among  the  first  to  bid  them  enter  were  Bayonne  and 
Bordeaux.  The  outbreak  of  the  French  devolution,  to- 
wards the  close  of  the  18th  century,  finally  caused  here, 
as  elsewhere,  a decided  change  in  their  favor  (of  which 
more  below).  In  Germany,  as  we  have  already  said, 
tlicir  worth  failed  to  he  recognised.  They  were  mal- 
treated even  under  the  great  and  otherwise  liberal 
monarch,  Frederick  II;  and,  as  Prussia  (Brandenburg) 
was  even  then  in  the  vanguard  of  German  affairs,  the 
intolerant  treatment  which  they  here  received  was  aped 
in  t he  other  ami  less  important  realms  of  tlic  em- 
pire. They  were  driven  out  of  Bavaria  in  1553,  out  of 
Brandenburg  in  1573,  and  similar  treatment  befell  them 
elsewhere.  They  also  excited  numerous  popular  tu- 
mults (as  late  even  as  1730  in  Hamburg,  of  whose  liberal 
treatment  of  the  Jews  we  spoke  above  in  connection 
with  the  Low  < ountries'),  and,  in  fact,  during  the  whole 
of  the  17th  and  nearly  the  whole  of  the  18th  century, 
the  hardships  inflicted  on  them  by  the  German  gov- 
ernments became  positively  more  and  more  grievous. 
Biissiu  also  tailed  to  treat  with  the  least  consideration 
the  Jewish  people.  Admitted  into  the  realm  by  Peter 
the  Great  (16x0-1725),  they  were  expelled  from  the  em- 
pire, 35.000  strong,  in  1713  by  the  empress  Elizabeth. 
'I  hey  were,  however,  readmitted  l»y  the.  empress  Cath- 
arine II.  The  only  other  two  countries  which  truly 
aflorded  the  Jews  protection  were  Turkey  and  Po- 
land. The  Mohammedan <,  as  we  have  already  had 
opportunity  to  observe, ha. e,  ever  since  the  decease  of 
the  founder  of  their  religion,  been  considerate  in  their 
dealings  with  their  Jewish  subjects.  In  Turkey,  the 
Jews  were  at.  this  period  held  in  higher  estimation  than 
the  conquered  Greeks;  the  latter  were  termed  texhir 
(slaves  i,  but  the  Jews  mnnsaphir  (visitors).  They  were 
permitted  to  re-establish  schools,  rebuild  synagogues, 
and  to  settle  in  all  the  commercial  towns  of  the  Levant. 
In  l "land,  where  they  arc  to  this  day  more  numerously 
represented  than  in  any  other  European  country,  they 
met  a most  favorable  reception  as  early  as  the  11th  cen- 


tury by  king  Casimir  the  Great,  tvhose  friendship  for 
the  Jews  is  attributed  to  the  love  he  bore  a Jewish  mis- 
tress of  his.  For  many  years  the  whole  trade  of  the 
country  was  in  their  hands.  During  the  17th  and  the 
greater  part  of  the  18th  century,  however,  they  were 
much  persecuted,  and  sank  into  a state  of  great  igno- 
rance and  even  poverty.  The  French  Revolution — - 
which,  in  spite  of  the  severity  and  barbarism  of  Russian 
intolerance,  affected  more  or  less  the  Polish  people — 
also  greatly  benefited  the  Jews  of  Poland.  See  below. 

7.  The  Modern  Period . — The  appearance  of  Moses 
Mendelssohn  (q.  v.),  the  Jewish  philosopher,  on  the 
stage  of  European  history  greatly  improved  the  status  of 
the  Jews  not  only  in  Germany,  but  all  over  Europe,  and 
we  might  say  the  world.  Various  other  causes,  among 
which,  especially,  the  American  and  French  revolutions, 
and  the  great  European  war  of  1812-15,  also  contributed 
to  this  change.  Efforts  to  ameliorate  the  condition  of 
the  Je>vs,  indeed,  began  to  be  manifested  even  before 
these  important  events.  In  Italy,  as  early  as  1740, 
Charles  of  Naples  and  .Sicily  gave  to  the  Jews  the  right 
to  resettle  in  his  kingdom,  with  the  privileges  of  unre- 
stricted commerce.  In  England  w'e  notice  as  early  as 
1753  a Jews’  Naturalization  Bill  pass  the  houses  of  Par- 
liament, and  in  Austria  the  emperor  Francis  published 
his  celebrated  toleration  edict,  which  gave  the  Jews  a 
comfortable  standing  in  his  dominions,  in  1782.  With 
this  last  date  virtually  opens  the  new  jera. 

The  low  ebb  to  which  Rabbinism  had  sunk  about  the 
middle  of  the  18th  century  made  a Jewish  Reformation 
not  only  possible,  but  necessary.  In  the  preceding  cen- 
turies, before  and  even  after  the  Christian  Reformation, 
again  and  again  false  Messiahs  had  come  forward,  and 
sought  to  impose  themselves  upon  the  unfortunate  leaders 
as  embassadors  from  on  high  to  ameliorate  their  condi- 
tion, and  to  fulfil  the  law  and  the  prophets.  See  Saeba- 
thai  Zfavi  ; Chasidim  ; Jacob  Frank.  The  people,  in 
their  forlorn  condition,  had  gravitated  with  their  teach- 
ers, and  had  fallen  deep  in  the  slough  of  ignorance  and 
superstition.  No  man  was  better  qualified  to  raise  them 
up  from  this  low  estate,  and  transform  the  Jewish  race 
into  a higher  state,  than  the  “third  Moses,”  who — born 
in  Germany  (in  1729),  an  ardent  disciple  of  the  great 
Moses  of  the  12th  century  [see  Maimoxides],  the  as- 
sociate of  the  master  minds  of  Germany  of  the  last  half 
of  the  1 8th  century,  and  the  bosom  friend  of  Lessing — 
eminently  possessed  every  quality  necessary  to  consti- 
tute a leader  and  a guide;  and  it  is  to  Moses  Mendels- 
sohn that  pre-eminently  belong  the  honor  and  glory  of 
having  transformed  the  Jewish  race  all  over  the  world 
to  a position  of  equality  with  their  fellow'-beings  of  the 
Christian  faith,  not  only  mentally  and  morally,  but  po- 
litically also.  It  is  true  the  change  was  slowly  wrought, 
and  there  is  even  yet  much  to  be  accomplished.  Still, 
in  Germany,  there  is  hardly  an  avenue  of  temporal  pur- 
suit in  which  the  Jew'  is  not  found  occupying  the  first 
positions.  In  the  rostrum  of  the  best  German  universi- 
ties lie  is  largely  represented;  on  the  bench,  however 
great  the  obstacles  that  might  seem  to  bar  him  from 
promotion,  he  has  secured  the  most  honorable  distinc- 
tions. As  physicians,  the  Jews  are  among  the  elite  of 
the  profession;  and  so  in  all  the  other  vocations  of  life 
they  have  proved  that  they  are  worthy  of  the  trust  re- 
posed in  them.  The  country  in  Europe,  however,  in 
which  the  Jew  holds  the  highest  social  position  is 
France.  There  Napoleon,  in  1806,  conferred  upon  them 
many  privileges,  and  they  have  since  entered  the  high- 
est offices  in  the  government,  in  the  army,  and  navy. 
At  present  they  enjoy  like  privileges  in  England  also. 
The  progress  in  removing  “ Jewish  disabilities”  was 
j rather  slow,  but  it  was  finally  effected  in  1860,  when 
j the  Jew  was  admitted  to  Parliament.  In  Holland  and 
i Belgium  all  restrictions  were  swept  awray  by  the  revo- 
lution of  1830.  In  Russia,  which  contains  about  two 
thirds  of  the  Jewish  population  of  Europe,  their  condi- 
tion has  been  very  variable  since  the  opening  of  the 
1 present  century.  In  1805  and  1809  the  emperor  Alex- 


JEW 


913 


JEW,  TIIE  WANDERING 


aniler  issued  decrees  granting  them  liberty  of  trade  and 
commerce,  but  the  barbarous  Nicholas  deprived  them  of 
all  these,  and  treated  them  quite  inhumanly,  especially 
in  Poland,  where  they  were  known  to  be  in  sympathy 
with  the  Revolutionists.  Since  the  accession  of  Alex- 
ander II  their  condition  has  been  improving,  and  there 
is  reason  to  hope  for  still  further  amelioration  of  their 
circumstances.  In  Italy  they  were  subject,  more  or  less, 
to  intolerance  and  oppression  until  the  dethronement  of 
the  papal  power.  .Since  the  establishment  of  a united 
kingdom  they  enjoy  there  the  same  high  privileges  as 
in  France.  In  Spain,  too,  the  establishment  of  a repub- 
lican government,  so  lately  remodelled  into  a monarchy, 
brought  “glad  tidings”  to  the  Jews.  They  had  suffer- 
ed under  the  yoke  of  Romanism  the  general  fate  of  the 
heretic;  the  downfall  of  the  Bourbon  dynasty,  and  the 
establishment  of  a popular  government,  at  once  secured 
for  all  religious  toleration,  and  it  has  since  been  ascer- 
tained that  Spain  contains  many  adherents  to  the  Jew- 
ish faith  among  the  attendants  of  the  Romish  service. 
In  Denmark  they  were  granted  equality  with  other  na- 
tives in  1814.  In  Norway  they  were  excluded  until  I860, 
and  in  Sweden  their  freedom  is  as  yet  limited.  In  Aus- 
tria, as  in  other  countries  where  Roman  Catholicism  has 
so  long  swayed  the  sceptre  with  mediajval  barbarity,  the 
political  changes  of  late  years  have  placed  the  Jew  on 
an  equality  with  his  Christian. neighbor,  and  not  a few 
of  the  higher  positions  of  the  state  are  filled  by  Jews. 
Our  notice  of  their  condition  in  other  countries  (aside 
from  the  United  States  of  America,  for  which  see  no- 
tice below)  must  be  necessarily  brief  on  account  of 
our  limited  space.  In  Turkey,  in  spite  of  the  exaction 
of  pashas,  the  insolence  of  janizaries,  and  the  miseries 
of  war,  they  are  quite  numerous  and  thriving.  In  Pal- 
estine, where  they  are  rapidly  increasing,  they  are  very 
poor,  and  depend  mainly  on  their  European  brethren 
l'or  assistance.  See  Jerusalem.  In  Arabia  their  num- 
ber is  small,  and  they  enjoy  much  independence.  In 
Persia  they  are  quite  numerous,  but  their  condition 
is  rather  pitiable.  They  exist  also  in  Afghanistan,  a 
country  whose  importance  will  now  be  more  realized 
since  the  occupation  of  Turkistan  (June,  1871)  by  Rus- 
sia leaves  Afghanistan  the  only  independent  country 
separating  the  Russian  empire  from  the  wealth  of  India. 
The  Jews  here  thrive  as  traffickers  between  Cabul  and 
China.  Jews  are  likewise  found  in  India  and  Cochin- 
China,  where  they  are  both  agriculturists  and  artisans; 
as  a nourishing  colony  in  Surinam;  in  Bokhara,  where 
they  possess  equal  rights  with  the  other  inhabitants, 
ami  are  skilled  in  £he  manufacture  of  silks  and  metals; 
in  Tartary  and  China,  where,  however,  their  number  is 
believed  not  to  be  adequately  known.  In  Africa,  also, 
they  exist  in  large  numbers;  especially  numerous  are 
they  all  along  the  North-African  coast,  where,  indeed, 
they  have  had  communities  for  perhaps  more  than  a 
thousand  years,  which  were  largely  re-enforced  in  con- 
sequence of  the-  great  Spanish  persecutions.  They  are 
numerous  in  Fez  and  Morocco,  are  found  in  small  num- 
bers in  Egypt  and  Nubia,  more  numerous  in  Abyssinia, 
and  it  is  ascertained  that  they  have  even  made  their 
way  into  the  heart  of  Africa ; they  exist  in  Sudan,  and 
are  also  found  further  south.  America,  too,  has  invited 
their  spirit  of  enterprise.  In  the  United  States,  as  in 
Great  Britain,  they  enjoy  absolute  liberty.  (See,  for 
further  particulars  of  the  history  of  the  Jews  in  our 
country,  the  article  Judaism.)  They  have  been  in 
Brazil  since  1625,  and  in  Cayenne  since  1639,  and  are 
also  settled  in  some  parts  of  the  West  Indies. 

The  entire  number  of  Jews  in  the  world  is  reckoned 
variously  at  between  31-  and  15  millions.  Chambers, 
taking  the  former  estimate,  distributes  them  as  follows : 
about  1,700,000  to  Russian,  Austrian,  and  Prussian 
Poland,  about  600,000  to  Germany,  about  240,000  to 
Hungary  and  Transylvania,  about  200,000  to  Galicia, 
about  300,000  to  Turkey,  about  47,000  to  Italy,  about 
30,000  to  Great  Britain;  Asia,  about  138,000;  Africa, 
about  504,000 ; and  America,  about  30.000.  We  are  in- 

IV.— M 31  31 


dined  to  estimate  the  number  of  Jews  to  be  no  less  than 
six  millions,  and  of  these  give  to  Europe  about  4,000,000, 
and  to  the  LT  nited  States  of  America  about  500,000.  The 
estimate  of  Chambers  for  the  United  States  might  be 
more  accurately  adopted  as  the  census  of  the  city  of 
New  York  only.  The  llandbnch  dev  Vcrgleichenden  Sta~ 
tistik  by  G.  von  Kolb  (Leipzig,  1868)  gives  the  following 
as  the  number  of  Jews  in  the  countries  named  : 

Germany 478,500  Denmark 4,200 

Austria 1,124,000  Sweden 1.000 

Great  Britain 40,000  Greece 500 

France so, 000  European  Turkey ...  70,000 

European  Russia.. .2, 277,000' Asiatic  Turkey  and 

Italy 20,200  Syria 52,000 

Portugal 3,000  Morocco  and  North 

Switzerland 4,200  Africa 010,000 

Belgium 1,500  Eastern  Asia 500,800 

Netherlands 64,000  America 400,000 

Luxemburg 1,500 

See  Jost,  Geschichte  d.  Ismejiten  (since  the  time  of  the 
Maccabees)  (Berlin,  1820-29,  9 vols.  8vo),  liis  Severe 
Gesch.  (Berl.  1846-7,  3 vols.  8vo),  and  also  bis  Gesch.  d. 
Judenthums  n.  s.  Sekten  (Leipzig,  1857-9,  3 vols.  8vo)  ; 
Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden  (vol.  iii-xi ; vols.  i and  ii,  treating 
of  the  earliest  period  of  Jewish  history,  have  not  yet. 
made  their  appearance) ; Milman,  History  of  the  Jews 
(London  and  N.  York,  new  edit.,  revised  and  augmented, 
1869-70,  3 vols.  sm.  8vo) ; Geiger,  Jvdenthum  u.  s.  Gesch. 
(Lpz.  1864-5,  2 vols.  8vo);  Dessauer,  Gesch.  d.  Isrueliten 
(Leipzig,  1845)  ; Da  Costa,  Israel  and  the  Gentiles  (Loud. 
1850,  12mo);  Kaiserling,  Gesch.  der  Juden  in  Portugal 
(Lpz.  1859,  8vo) ; Morgoliouth,  History  of  Jews  in  Great 
Britain  (Lond.  1851,3  vols.  8vo) ; Ca]  letigue,  Hist.ph  ilos. 
des  Juifs  (Par.  1838);  Depping,  Les  Juifs  dans  le  moyen- 
| age  (Paris,  1834);  Etheridge,  Introd.  to  II eh.  Literature, 
j (Lond.  1856, 12mo) ; Ilaller,  Des  Juifs  en  France  (Paris, 
1845) ; Bedanide,  Les  Juifs  en  France,  en  Italie  et  en 
Kspagne  (Paris,  1859);  Smncker,  Ilist.  of  Modern  Jews 
| (N.  Y.  I860) ; Beer,  Gesch.  Lehren  u.  Meinung.  der  Juden 
(Lpz.  1825,  8vo);  Jenks  (William),  History  of  the  Jeics 
(Bost.  1847, 12mo) ; Mills,  British  Jews,  their  Religious 
Ceremonies  (Lond.  1862);  Ockley,  History  of  the  present 
Jews  (translated  from  the  Italian  of  Jeh.  Arj.  da  Mode- 
na, Lond.  1650);  Schimding,  Bit  Juden  in  Oesierretch, 
Preussc-n  und  Sachsen  (Lpz.  1842);  Towav,  Anglia  Ju- 
daica  (Oxf.  1738);  Benjamin,  Eight  Years  in  Asia  and 
Africa  (Ilanovcr,  1859);  Finn,  Sephardim,  or  History 
of  the  Jeers  in  Spain  and  Portugal  (London,  1841,  8vo; 
reviewed  in  Brit,  and  For.  Rev.  1842,  p.  459  sq.) ; Frit, 
and  For.  Rev.  1837,  p.  402  sq. ; Lond.  Quarterly  Review, 
xxxviii,  114  sq. ; Christian  Examiner,  1848,  p.  48  sq. ; 
1830,  p.  290  sq. ; North  Am.  Rev.  1831,  p.  234  sq.  The 
work  of  Basnage  (Hist,  de  la  Religion  des  Juifs  depins 
Jesus-Christ  jusqua  present  (Haag,  1716,  15  vols.  8vo) 
was  compiled  from  second-hand  sources,  and  so  teems 
with  errors  and  unjust  statements  towards  Jews  that  we 
can  hardly  advise  its  perusal  to  any  who  seek  accuracy 
and  erudition.  For  the  religious  views,  etc.,  of  the  Jews, 
see  Judais3i.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jew,  the  Wandering.  While  the  tradition  ob- 
tained in  the  Christian  Church  that  the  “ disciple  whom 
Jesus  loved”  should  not  die  (John  xxi,  23),  we  find  as  a 
counterpart  the  tradition  of  an  enemy  of  the  Redeemer, 
whom  remorse  condemned  to  ceaseless  wanderings  until 
the  second  coming  of  the  Lord.  This  tradition  of  the 
Wandering  Jew  has,  like  other  traditions,  undergone 
various  changes.  The  first  Christian  writer  by  whom 
we  find  it  mentioned  is  the  Benedictine  chronicler  Mat- 
thams  Parisian  (f  1259).  According  to  the  account  he 
gives  in  his  Ilistoria  Major — an  account  which  he  pro- 
fesses to  have  received  from  an  Armenian  bishop,  to 
whom  the  Wandering  Jew  had  himself  told  it— his  his- 
tory was  as  follows  : His  name  was  Cartuphilus,  and  he 
was  door-keeper  of  the  palace,  in  the  employ  of  Pilate. 
When  the  Jews  dragged  Jesus  out  of  the  palace,  after 
his  sentence  had  been  pronounced,  the  door-keeper 
struck  him,  saying  mockingly,  “ Go  on,  Jesus,  go  faster ; 
why  dost  thou  linger?”  Jesus  turned  around  sternly, 
and  said,  “1  am  going,  but  thou  shalt  remain  waiting 


914 


JEWESS 


JEWEL 


until  I return.”  The  door-keeper  was  then  about  thirty 
rears  old ; lint  since,  whenever  he  reaches  his  hundredth 
vear,  a sudden  faintness  overcomes  him,  and  when  he 
awakes  from  his  swoon  he  finds  himself  returned  to  the 
a"e  he  was  at  the  time  the  Lord  pronounced  his  punish-  J 
ment.  ( artdphilus  was  baptized  with  Ananias  under 
the  name  of  Joseph,  which  caused  him  afterwards  to  be 
confounded  with  Joseph  of  Arimathea.  As  a Christian, 
he  led  a life  of  strict  penitence,  in  the  hope  of  obtaining 
forgiveness.  The  scene  of  action  of  this  Wandering 
Jew  is  in  the  East— namely,  Armenia. 

The  tradition  of  the  West  is  somewhat  different. 
Here  we  find  him  first  mentioned  in  the  Kith  century, 
under  the  name  of . I hasuerus,  and  he  is  said  to  have! 
appeared  in  1547  in  Hamburg,  then  in  Dantzig  and  in 
other  cities  of  Germany,  and  in  other  countries  also. 
L)r.  Panins,  of  Eizen,  bishop  of  Schleswig — the  Ston- 
ges— heard  him  relate  his  history  as  follows:  Ahasue- 
rns  was  a shoemaker  in  Jerusalem  during  the  life  of 
Jesus,  and  one  of  the  loudest  in  crying  “ Crucify  him.” 
When  Jesus  was  led  to  the  place  of  execution,  he  passed 
before  the  shoemaker's  house.  Tired  with  the  weight 
of  the.  cross,  the  Saviour  leaned  against  the  porch  for 
rest ; but  the  shoemaker,  who  stood  at  his  door  with  a 
child  in  his  arms,  bade  him  harshly  move  on  (according 
to  some  he  even  struck  him),  when  Christ,  turning 
round  and  looking  severely  at  him,  said,  “ 1 shall  stay 
and  rest, but  thou  shalt  move  on  until  the  last  day.” 

Towards  the  end  of  the  17th  century  and  the  begin- 
ning of  the  l*th,  the  tradition  of  the  Wandering  Jew, 
in  England,  changed  to  the  original  Eastern  account. 
A stranger  made  his  appearance  claiming  to  be  an  offi- 
cer of  the  upper  council  of  Jerusalem,  and  that  be  had 
done  what  was  generally  attributed  to  Cartapliilus — 
namely,  bad  struck  Jesus  as  the  latter  left  Pilate’s  pal- 
ace, and  said  to  him, “Go,  move  on;  why  dost  thou 
yet  linger  here?”  The  English  universities  sent  their 
ablest  professors  to  question  him.  lie  proved  himself 
aide  to  answer  them  all;  he  related  a great  deal  con- 
cerning the  apostles,  as  also  about  Mohammed,  Tamer- 
lane, Soli  mail,  etc,,  all  of  whom  he  professed  to  have 
known  personally ; he  knew  all  the  dates  of  the  events 
connected  with  the  Crusades,  etc.  Some  considered  him 
an  impostor  or  a visionary,  while  others  believed  him. 

Whether  the  allegory  of  Ahasuerus,  or  this  ever-rest- 
less  being,  is  to  be  understood  as  a type  of  the  anti-  I 
Christian  spirit  of  scepticism,  or  whether,  in  a more  j 
concrete  sense,  it  is  meant  to  typify  the  ever-wandering, 
homeless,  vet  still  unchanged  Jewish  people,  is  a ques- 
tion for  critics  to  decide.  We  will  only  add  that  this 
fanciful  tradition  has  become  the  theme  for  a great 
number  of  works  of  imagination.  It  has  been  worked 
lip  into  songs,  as  l»v  Schubert,  Sehlegel,  etc.;  into  epics, 
as  by  Julius  Mospu,  Nioli.  Lenaw,  etc.:  into  dramas,  as 
by  Klingemaun.  French  writers  also  have  used  it ; 
Edgar  (Juinct  and  Hcranger  have  composed  songs  on 
the  Wandering  Jew.  Put  the  most  remarkable  produc- 
tion to  which  this  legend  has  given  rise  is  Eugene  Sue’s 
novel,  The  Wandering  Jew  (Le  Juif errant,  Paris,  1*44). 
See  1 >r.  J.  G.  Til.  Griissc,  Sage  r.  ewigen  Jit  (Ian,  historisch 
cntu'ickclt  (Dresden  u.  Leipz.  1*44.  *vo);  Ilerzog,  Real- 
Encghl opiid ie,  vii,  131  sq.  (J.  N.  P.) 

Jewel  is  the  representative  in  the  A.V.of  the  follow- 
ing terms  in  the  original : CT3  ( ne'zem , a ring),  a nose-ring 
i Prov.  xi,  ‘22 ; Isa.  iii,  21 ; Ezek.  xvi,  12 ; everywhere  else 
rendered  “ear-ring,”  Gen.  xxiv,  22,  30,  47 ; see  Jerome 
on  Ezek.  ad  loc.;  Hartmann’s  J/ehrderin,  \\,  166;  iii, 
205),  or  an  ear-ring  (Gen.  xxxv.  4 ; Exod.  xxxii,  2,  3) ; 
elsewhere  without  specifying  the  part  of  the  person  on 
which  it  was  worn  (Judg.viii,  24  -20;  Exod.  xxxv,  32; 
Job  xlii,  11;  Prov.  xxv,  12;  IIos.  ii,  15).  ■'bn  (chali', 
so  called  as  being  polished),  a necklace  or  trinket.  (Cant, 
vii,  1 ; “ ornament,”  Prov.  xxv,  1 2),  and  !V3n  ( chelguh ', 
fem.  of  preced.),  a necklace  or  female  ornament  (Hos.  ii, 
13'.  ■'22  (Mi',  an  implement  or  vessel  of  any  kind),  an 

article  of  silver-ware  or  other  precious  material  (Gen. 


xxiv,  53;  Exod.  iii,  22;  xi,  2;  xii,35;  Numb,  xxvi,  50, 
51;  1 Sara,  vi,  8,  15;  Job  xxviii,  17 ; Prov.  xx,  15),  or 
any  elegant  trappings  or  piece  of  finery  in  dress  (Isa.  lxi, 
10;  Ezek.  xvi,  7,  39;  xxiii,  1G),  elsewhere  rendered 
“vessel,”  etc.  flbSD  (segullak',  property),  wealth  or 
treasure  (Mai. iii,  17 ;’ elsewhere  usually  “peculiar  treas- 
ure," Exod.  xix,  5 ; Psa.  exxxv,  4,  ete.).  See  Dress; 
Precious  Stoxu;  etc. 

Jewell,  John,  a learned  English  writer  and  bishop, 
one  of  the  fathers  of  the  English  Protestant  Church, 
was  bom  May  24, 1522,  at  Buden,in  the  county  of  Dev- 
on, and  educated  at  Oxford,  where  he  took  the  degree 
of  bachelor  of  arts  in  1541,  became  a noted  tutor,  and 
was  soon  after  chosen  lecturer  on  rhetoric  in  his  college. 
He  had  early  imbibed  the  principles  of  the  Reformation, 
and  inculcated  them  upon  his  pupils,  though  it  had  to 
be  done  privately  till  the  accession  of  king  Edward  the 
Sixth,  which  took  place  in  154G,  when  he  made  a public 
declaration  of  his  faith,  and  entered  into  a close  friend- 
ship with  Peter  Martyr,  who  was  visiting  Oxford  about 
this  time.  On  the  accession  of  queen  Mary  in  1553,  he 
was  one  of  the  first  to  feel  the  rage  of  the  storm  then 
raised  against  the  Reformation;  he  was  obliged  to  flee, 
and,  after  encountering  many  difficulties,  joined  the 
English  exiles  at  Frankfort,  in  the  second  year  of  queen 
Mary’s  reign,  and  here  made  a public  recantation  of  his 
forced  subscription  to  the  popish  doctrines.  He  then 
went  to  Strasburg,  and  afterwards  to  Zurich,  w here  he 
resided  with  Peter  Martyr.  He  returned  to  England 
in  1559,  after  the  death  of  queen  Mary,  and  in  the 
following  year  was  consecrated  bishop  of  Salisbury. 
He  now  preached  and  wrrote  anew  in  favor  of  the  Ref- 
ormation, and  sought  in  every  wray  to  extinguish  any 
j attachment  still  remaining  for  the  Roman  Catholics. 
It  was  at  this  time,  after  more  than  twenty  years  spent 
in  researches,  that  he  published  his  famous  A pologia  pro 
Ecclesia  A nglicana  (translated  into  six  different  lan- 
guages, and  into  English  by  lady  Bacon  [wife  of  the 
councillor  J,  under  the  title,  An  Apology  or  Anstcer  in 
defence  of  the  Church  of  England,  15G2,  4to).  But  his 
watchful  and  laborious  manner  of  life  impaired  his 
health,  and  brought  him  quickly  to  the  grave.  He 
died  at  Monkton  Farley  Sept. 22, 1571.  “He  was  a prel- 
ate of  great  learning,  piety,  and  moderation  ; irreproach- 
able in  his  private  life ; extremely  generous  and  charita- 
ble to  the  poor,  to  whom,  it  is  said,  his  doors  alw  ays  stood 
open.  He  was  of  a pleasant  and  affable  temper,  modest, 
meek,  and  temperate,  and  a great  master  of  his  passions. 
His  memory  was  naturally  strong  and  retentive,  but  he 
is  said  to  have  greatly  improved  it  bv  art,  insomuch  that 
marvellous  things  are  related  of  it  by  his  biographers.” 
The  writings  of  bishop  Jewell,  which  are  chiefly  contro- 
versial, are  greatly  valued  even  in  our  day,  and  are 
freely  used  in  two  departments  of  Church  controversy — ■ 
on  the  question  between  the  Church  of  England  and  the 
Church  of  Rome,  and  on  the  question  respecting  the  de- 
votional sentiments  of  the  English  Protestant  fathers. 
Besides  his  Apology,  he  wrote,  in  reply  to  Thomas  Har- 
divtg  (q.  v.),  A Defence  of  the  Apology  (1565  and  1567, 
folio),  the  reading  of  which  was  obligatory"  in  all  par- 
ishes until  the  time  of  Charles  I : — A 1 iew  of  a seditious 
Bull  sent  into  England  by  Pope  J’ius  Yin  1569: — A Trea- 
tise on  the  Holy  Scriptures  (Loud.  1582,  8vo): — An  Ex- 
position of  the  tiro  Epistles  to  the  Thessalvnians : — A 
Treatise  on  the  Sacraments  (Loud.  1583,  8vo);  besides 
several  sermons  and  controversial  treatises.  His  works 
were  collected  and  published  in  one  folio  volume  (Loud. 
1609, 1611, 1631, 1711 ; recent  editions,  Camb.  1845-50,4 
vols.  sm.  Ihl. ; Oxf.  1847,  1*48, 8 vols.  8vo).  See  Fuller, 
Church  llist.;  Burnet,  Hist,  of  Deformation ; L.  Hum- 
frey,  Life  oj  John  Jewell  (1573) ; Hoefer,  JYouv.Biog.  Gen. 
xxvi,  710;  Allibone,  Diet,  of  A nth.  i.  967;  AVood,  Athe- 
ne Oxon.  vol.  i (see  Index) ; Chas.  Webb  le  Bas,  Life  of 
Bishop  Jewell  (1835) ; Middleton,  Reformers,  iii,  352  sq. 
(J.H.W.) 

Jewess  ( lonoflio),  a woman  of  Hebrew"  birth,  with- 
out distinction  of  tribe  (Acts  xvi,  1 ; xxiv,  24).  It  is 


JEWETT 


915 


JEZEBEL 


Applied  in  the  former  passage  to  Eunice,  the  mother  of 
Timothy,  who  was  unquestionably  of  Hebrew  origin 
(comp.  2 Tim.  iii,  15),  and  in  the  latter  to  Drusilla,  the 
wife  of  Felix  and  daughter  of  Herod  Agrippa  I. — Smith. 
See  Jew. 

Jewett,  William,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minis- 
ret,  was  born  in  Sharon,  Conn.,  in  the  year  1789.  At 
the  age  of  seventeen  he  was  converted,  commenced 
preaching  the  year  following,  and  travelled  a circuit  by 
direction  of  a presiding  elder.  In  1808  he  joined  the 
New  York  Annual  Conference.  His  ministerial  labors 
were  uninterrupted  from  1807  to  1851,  a period  of  forty- 
four  years,  during  nineteen  of  which  he  held  the  office 
of  presiding  elder.  His  appointments  were  Middletown, 
Conn.;  Poughkeepsie,  New  York  City,  and  from  1832  on 
the  Hudson  River,  White  Plains,  Newburgh,  Pough- 
keepsie, and  Rhinebeck  districts.  The  last  six  years  of 
his  life  he  sustained  to  the  Conference  a superannuated 
relation.  As  a man,  Mr.  Jewett  possessed  many  estima- 
ble traits  of  character.  As  a Christian,  he  was  distin- 
guished for  a marked  decision  and  tirmness  of  character. 
As  a preacher,  he  was  plain,  simple,  and  eminently  prac- 
tical. As  a pastor,  he  was  wise,  diligent,  faithful,  and 
unusually  successful,  leaving  behind  him,  wherever  he 
went,  a holy  influence.  As  a presiding  elder,  he  com- 
manded the  confidence  and  respect  of  his  brethren.  He 
died  at  Poughkeepsie,  N.  Y.,  June  27, 1857.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Jewett,  William  D.,  a Methodist  Episcopal  min- 
ister, was  born  at  Ballston,  N.  Y.,  about  1788;  was  con- 
verted in  1811 ; was  licensed  to  preach  in  1821,  and 
preached  much,  and  was  ordained  deacon  previous  to 
entering  the  Genesee  Conference  in  1830;  was  superan- 
nuated in  1845,  and  died  at  Huron,  N.  Y.,  Nov.  10, 1855. 
Mr.  Jewett  was  a man  of  “unobtrusive  piety,  and  a pat- 
tern of  ministerial  fidelity’'.”  He  labored  with  all  faith- 
fulness and  love  until  his  strength  failed  him.  At  death 
he  left  his  property,  about  63000,  to  the  Bible  and  Mis- 
sionary societies,  and  the  superannuated  brethren  of  his 
own  Conference. — Minutes  of  Con f.  vi,  102.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Jewish  (’loi/tfahcoc),  of  or  belonging  to  Jews:  an 
epithet  applied  to  the  Rabbinical  legends  against  which 
the  apostle  Paul  warns  his  younger  brother  (Tit.  i,  14). 
— Smith.  See  Jew. 

JEWISH  CHRISTIANS.  See  Judaizers. 

Jew'ry  0*!"P,  Yehud'. Chald., Dan.v,  15, last  clause; 
“Judina”  in  Ezra  v,  8;  elsewhere  “Judah;”  ’lovdaia, 
Luke  xxiii,  5;  John  vii,  1;  elsewhere  “Judiea”),  the 
nation  of  the  Jews,  i.  e.  the  kingdom  of  Jrimir,  later 
Jud.ea.  “Jewry”  also  occurs  frequently  in  the  A.V. 
of  the  Apocrypha  (1  Esdr.  i,  32 ; ii,  4 ; iv,  49 ; v,  7,  8,  57  ; 
vi,  1 ; viii,  8*1 ; ix,  3 ; Bel  33 ; 2 Mace,  x,  24). 

Jews.  See  Jew. 

Jezani'ah  (Jcr.  xl,8;  xlii,  1).  See  Jaaz.sniaii,  4. 

Jez'ebel  (Hebrew  Ize’bel, noi-cokabited,  q.  d. 
dXoxoQ,  compare  Plato,  p.  249 ; Lat.  A gnes , i.  c.  Intacta, 
chaste;  an  appropriate  female  name,  remarks  Geseniiis, 
and  not  to  be  estimated  from  the  character  of  Ahab's 
queen;  comp.  Isabella ; Sept.  T=£d/3s/\  ; N.  T. ’1 
Rev.  ii,  20  ; Joseph,  'la'sfiikic.  Ant.  ix,  (1, 4 ; Vulg.  Jez- 
abel), the  consort  of  Ahab,  king  of  Israel  (1  Kings  xvi, 
31),  was  the  daughter  of  Ethbaal  (q.  v.),  king  of  Tyre 
ami  Sidon,  and  originally  a priest  of  Astarte  (Josephus, 
Apion,  i,  18).  This  unsuitable  alliance  proved  most  dis- 
astrous to  the  kingdom  of  Israel;  for  Jezebel  induced 
her  weak  husband  not  only  to  connive  at  her  introducing 
the  worship  of  her  native  idols,  but  eventually  to  be- 
come himself  a worshipper  of  them,  and  to  use  all  the 
means  in  his  power  to  establish  them  in  the  room  of 
the  God  of  Israel.  The  worship  of  the  golden  calves, 
which  previously  existed,  was,  however  mistakenly,  in- 
tended in  honor  of  Jehovah ; but  this  was  an  open  alien- 
ation from  him,  and  a turning  aside  to  foreign  and 
strange  gods,  which,  indeed,  were  no  gods  (but  sec  Vat- 
ke,  Bihl.  Theol.  i,  406).  Most  of  the  particulars  of  this 
bad  but  apparently  highly-gifted  woman’s  conduct  have 


been  related  in  the  notices  of  Aiiab  and  Elijah.  From 
the  course  of  her  proceedings,  it  would  appear  that  she 
grew  to  hate  the  Jewish  system  of  law  and  religion  on 
account  of  what  must  have  seemed  to  her  its  intoler- 
ance and  its  anti-social  tendencies.  She  hence  sought 
to  put  it  down  by  all  the  means  she  could  command ; 
and  the  imbecility  of  her  husband  seems  to  have  made 
all  the  powers  of  the  state  subservient  to  her  designs. 
The  manner  in  which  she  acquired  and  used  her  power 
over  Ahab  is  strikingly  shown  in  the  matter  of  Naboth, 
which,  perhaps, -more  than  all  the  other  affairs  in  which 
she  was  engaged,  brings  out  her  true  character,  and  dis- 
plays the  nature  of  her  influence.  B.C.  cir.  897.  When 
she  found  him  puling,  like  a spoiled  child,  on  account  of 
the  refusal  of  Naboth  to  gratify  him  by  selling  him  his 
patrimonial  vineyard  for  a “garden  of  herbs,”  she  taught 
him  to  look  to  her,  to  rclv  upon  her  for  the  accom- 
plishment of  his  wishes;  and  for  the  sake  of  this  im- 
pression, more  perhaps  than  from  savageness  of  temper, 
she  scrupled  not  at  murder  under  the  abused  forms  of 
law  and  religion  (1  Kings  xxi,  1-29).  She  had  the  re- 
ward of  her  unscrupulous  decisiveness  of  character  in 
the  triumph  of  her  policy  in  Israel,  where,  at  last,  there 
were  but  7000  people  who  had  not  bowed  the  knee  to 
Baal,  nor  kissed  their  hand  to  his  image.  Nor  was  her 
success  confined  to  Israel;  for  through  Athaliah  — a 
daughter  after  her  own  heart — who  was  married  to  the 
son  and  successor  of  Jehoshaphat,  the  same  policy  pre- 
vailed for  a time  in  Judah,  after  Jezebel  herself  had  per- 
ished and  the  house  of  Ahab  had  met  its  doom.  It 
seems  that  after  the  death  of  her  husband,  Jezebel  main- 
tained considerable  ascendency  over  her  son  Jehoram; 
and  her  measures  and  misconduct  formed  the  principal 
charge  which  Jehu  cast  in  the  teeth  of  that  unhappy 
monarch  before  he  sent  forth  the  arrow  that  slew 
him.  The  last  effort  of  Jezebel  was  to  intimidate  Jehu 
as  he  passed  the  palace  by  warning  him  of  the  eventual 
rewards  of  even  successful  treason.  It  is  eminently 
characteristic  of  the  woman  that,  even  in  this  terrible 
moment,  when  she  knew  that  her  son  was  slain,  and 
must  have  felt  that  her  power  had  departed,  she  dis- 
played herself,  not  with  rent  veil  and  dishevelled  hair, 
“ but  tired  her  head  and  painted  her  eyes”  before  she 
looked  out  at  the  window.  The  eunuchs,  at  a word 
from  Jehu,  having  cast  her  down,  she  met  her  death  be- 
neath the  wall  [see  Jehu];  and  when  afterwards  the 
new  monarch  bethought  him  that,  as  “a  king’s  daugh- 
ter,” her  corpse  should  not  be  treated  with  disrespect, 
nothing  was  found  of  her  but  the  palms  of  her  hands 
and  the  soles  of  her  feet.:  the  dogs  had  eaten  all  the 
rest  (l  Kings  xvi, 31 ; xviii,4, 13, 19;  xxi, 5-25;  2 Kings 
ix,  7, 22, 30-37).  B.C.  883.— Kit  to. 

The  name  of  Jezebel  appears  anciently  (as  in  modem 
times)  to  have  become  proverbial  for  a wicked  terma- 
gant (comp.  2 Kings  ix,  22),  and  in  this  sense  it  is  prob- 
ably used  in  Rev.  ii,  20,  where,  instead  of  “that  woman 
Jezebel”  Qn)v  yvvaiKa  L^q3//\),  many  editors  prefer 
the  reading  “thy  wife  Jezebel”  (n)i>  y vvaiicu  aov 
ufitX'),  i.  e.  of  the  bishop  of  the  Church  at  Thyatira, 
who  seems  to  have  assumed  the  office  of  a public  teach- 
er, although  herself  as  eorrupt  in  doctrine  as  in  prac- 
tice. In  this  address  to  the  representative  of  the 
Church  she  is  called  his  wife,  i.  e.  one  for  whose  char- 
acter and  conduct,  as  being  a member  of  the  congrega- 
tion over  which  he  had  charge,  he  was  responsible,  and 
whom  he  should  have  taken  care  that  the  Church  had 
long  since  repudiated.  Her  proper  name  is  probably 
withheld  through  motives  of  delicacy.  We  need  not 
suppose  that  she  was  literally  guilty  of  licentiousness, 
but  only  that  she  disseminated  and  acted  upon  such  cor- 
rupt religious  principles  as  made  her  resemble  the  idol- 
atrous wife  of  Ahab  in  her  public  influence.  (See  Ja- 
blonski,  Dm.  de  Jezabele  Thyatirenor.  pseudo-j)rophetr 
essa,  Frankf.  1739;  Stuart’s  Comment,  ad  loc.)  Others, 
however,  maintain  a more  literal  interpretation  of  the 
passage  (see  Clarke  and  Alford,  ad  loc.).  See  Nicolai- 

TAX. 


916 


JEZIRAH 


JEZELUS 

Jeze'lus  (’If^Xec)*  the  ^necizcd  form  (in  the 
Apocrypha)  of  the  name  of  two  .lews  whose  sons  are 
:>aul  to  have  returned  from  Babylon  with  Ezra ; but  a 
comparison  with  the  Hebrew  text  seems  to  indicate  an 
identity  or  else  confusion. 

1.  (Vulgate  Zvchdeus.')  The  father  of  Seclicnias,  of 
‘•the  sons  of  Zathoe"  (1  Esdr.  viii,  32);  evidently  the  j 
Jaiiaziil  of  Ezra  viii,  5. 

2.  (Vulg.  J (lidus.)  The  father  of  Abadias,  of  “the 
sons  of.Toab”  (1  Esdr.  viii, 35);  evidently  the  Jkhiel  of 
Ezra  viii.  0. 

Je'zer  (1  Icb. Yc'tser, “ 11*, formation ; Sept,  ’\aadap, 
’licr to,  but  in  Cliron.  X.adn  v.  r.  ‘Am)n),  the  third  named 
of  the  four  sons  ofNaphtali  (Gcn.xlvi,24;  Numb,  xxvi, 
43;  1 Cliron.  vii,  13),  and  progenitor  of  the  family  of 
Jkzf.rites  (Hcb.  Yitsri',  Septuag.  Trcrrpi,  Numb, 
xxvi,  49 ; see  Iziti).  B.C.  183G. 

Je'zerite  (Numb,  xxvi,  49).  See  Jfzfr. 

Jezi'all  (Heb.  Yizziyah ',  m""",  for  FT  “"7^,  sprinlc- 
h <1  by  Jehovah ; or  perhaps  to  he  written  n“P,  Yhyuh ', 
for  assembled  by  Jehovah , comp.  Jkzill;  Sept. 

’A^ia,  Vulgate  Jezitt),  an  Israelite,  one  of  the  “sons”  of 
Parosii,  who  divorced  his  Gentile  wife  after  the  exile 
(Ezra  x,  25).  B.C.  439. 

Je'zisl  [some  Jezi’U]  (Ifeb.  YezieV,  as  in 

the  margin,  assembled  by  God;  Sept.  ’A’^u'/X  v.  r.  Tw?/X, 
etc. ; Vulg.  Jaziel),  a “son”  of  Azmaveth, who,  with  his 
brother,  was  one  of  the  Benjamitc  archers  that  rein- 
forced David  at  Ziklag  (1  Cliron.  xii,3).  B.C.  1055. 

Jezirall  (“^"II*1  ISO,  Sepher  Yetsirdh ),  or  the 
J'.nol of  Creation,  is  the  name  of  one  of  the  cabalistic 
books  which,  next  to  the  Zoiiar,  forms  the  principal 
source  whence  we  derive  our  knowledge  of  Jewish  mvs- 
tici>m.  The  age  of  the  book  it  has  thus  far  been  im- 
possible exactly  to  determine.  Jewish  tradition  claims 
it  to  be  of  divine  origin.  It  was  intrusted  by  the  Lord 
to  Abraham,  and  he  handed  it  down  to  Akiba  (q.  v.). 
Modern  scholars  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
Jezirah  is  the  product  of  the  Jewish  schools  in  Egypt  at 
the  time  of  Philo  Judaeus.  Dr.  Zunz,  however,  assigns 
it  to  the  Gconasric  period, the  8tli  or  9tli  century.  For 
the  latter  assertion  there  seems  to  us  to  be  no  good  rea- 
son, and  we  are  inclined  to  believe  it  was  composed 
during  the  period  of  the  first  Mishnaists,  i.  e.  between 
a century  before  and  about  eighty  years  after  the  birth 
"f  Christ  (comp.  Etheridge,  lot  rod  to  Heb.  Lit.  p.  300  sq. ; 
Enfield,  Hist.  Philos,  p.  405).  See  Cabala,  vol.  ii,  p.  l’ 
We  do  this  after  having  determined  that  the  Hebrew 
of  this  work  is  of  that  dialectic  kind  used  bv  the  learned 
Jews  at  the  time  of  the  opening  of  the  Christian  .-era. 
Indeed,  it  is  barely  possible  that  the  work  itself  was  a 
collection  of  fragments  of  various  earlier  times:  a kind  ! 
of  resume  of  what  had  hitherto  been  determined  on  the 
occult  subject  of  which  it  treats.  The  Jezirah  treats 
of  the  ( reation  of  the  \\  orld,  and  “is,  in  fact,  an  ancient 
effort  of  the  human  mind  to  discover  the  plan  of  the 
universe  at  large,  and  the  law  or  band  which  unites  its 
various  parts  into  one  harmonious  whole.  It  opens  its 
instructions  with  something  of  the  tone  and  manner  of 
the  Bible,  and  announces  that  the  universe  bears  upon 
itself  the  imprint  of  the  name  of  God;  so  that,  bv  means 
ol  the  great  panorama  of  the  world,  the  mind  may  ac- 
quire a conception  of  the  Deity,  and  from  the  unity 
which  reigns  in  the  creation,  it  may  learn  the  oneness 
of  the  Creator.”  So  far,  so  good.  But  now,  instead  of 
tracing  in  the  universe  the  laws  which  govern  it,  so  as 
to  ascertain  from  those  laws  the  thoughts  of  the  law- 
giver, “it  is  sought  rather  to  arrive  at  the  same  end  bv 
tinning  some  tangible,  analogy  between  the  things  which 
exist,  and  the  signs  of  thought,  or  the  means  bv  which 
thought  an.l  knowledge  are  principally  communicated 
ami  interpreted  among  men:  and  recourse  is  had  for 
tins  purpose  to  the  twenty-two  letters  of  the  Hebrew 


alphabet,  and  to  the  first  ten  of  the  numbers”  (compare 
Etheridge,  p.  304  sq.). 

“ The  book  of  Jezirah  begins  by  an  enumeration  of 
the  thirty-two  ways  of  wisdom  («T23n  pin^P?),  or,  in 
plainer  terms,  of  the  thirty-two  attributes  of  the  divine 
mind  as  they  are  demonstrated  in  the  founding 

of  the  universe.  The  book  shows  why  there  are  just 
I thirty-two  of  these;  by  an  analysis  of  this  number  it 
! seeks  to  exhibit,  in  a peculiar  method  of  theosophical 
| arithmetic,  so  to  speak  (on  the  assumption  that  figures 
! are  the  signs  of  existence  and  thought),  the  doctrine 
that  God  is  the  author  of  all  things,  the  universe  being 
a development  of  original  entity,  and  existence  being  but 
thought  become  concrete;  in  short,  that,  instead  of  the 
heathenish  or  popular  Jewish  conception  of  the  world 
as  outward  or  coexistent  with  Deity,  it  is  coequal  in 
birth,  having  been  brought  out  of  nothing  by  God,  thus 
establishing  a pantheistic  system  of  emanation,  of  which, 
principally  because  it  is  not  anywhere  designated  by 
this  name,  one  would  think  the  writer  was  not  himself 
cpiite  conscious.  The  following  sketch  will  illustrate 
the  curious  process  of  this  argumentation.  The  number 
32  is  the  sum  of  10  (the  number  of  digits)  and  22  (the 
number  of  the  letters  of  the  Ileb.  alphabet),  this  latter 
being  afterwards  further  resolved  into  3 + 7 + 12.  The 
first  chapter  treats  of  the  former  of  these,  or  the  de- 
cade, and  its  elements,  which  are  designated  as  figures 
(rr^SS,  Sephirotli),  in  contradistinction  from  the  22 
letters.  This  decade  is  the  sign  manual  of  the  universe. 
In  the  details  of  this  hypothesis,  the  existence  of  divin- 
ity in  the  abstract  is  really  ignored,  though  not  formally 
denied;  thus  the  number  1 is  its  spirit  as  an  active  prin- 
ciple, in  which  all  worlds  and  beings  are  yet  inclosed;  2 
is  the  spirit  from  this  spirit,  i.  e.  the  active  principle  in 
so  far  as  it  has  beforehand  decided  on  creating ; 3 is  wa- 
ter ; 4 lire,  these  two  being  the  ideal  foundations  of  the 
material  and  spiritual  worlds  respectively;  while  the  six 
remaining  figures,  5 to  10,  are  regarded  severally  as  the 
signs  manual  of  height,  depth,  east,  west,  north,  and 
south,  forming  the  six  sides  of  the  cube,  and  represent- 
ing the  idea  of  form  in  its  geometrical  perfection. 

“ lVc  sec,  however,  that  this  alone  establishes  nothing 
real,  but  merely  expounds  the  idea  of  possibility  or  ac- 
tuality, at  the  same  time  establishing  the  virtiuditcr  as 
existing  in  God,  the  foundation  of  all  things.  The  ac- 
tual entities  are  therefore  introduced  in  the  subsequent 
chapters  under  the  22  letters.  The  connection  between 
the  two  series  is  evidently  the  II  "oimd,  which  in  the  first 
Sephirali  (number)  is  yet  identical  in  voice  and  action 
with  the  spirit;  but  afterwards  these  elements,  sepa- 
rating as  creator  and  substance,  together  produce  the 
world,  the  materials  of  which  are  represented  by  the 
letters,  since  these,  by  their  manifold  combinations, 
name  and  describe  all  that  exists.  Next,  three  letters 
are  abstracted  from  the  22  as  the  three  mothers  (compo- 
sing the  mnemotcclniic  word  ir^X),  i.  e.  the  univer- 
sal relations  of  principle,  contrary  principle,  and  bal- 
ance, or  in  nature— fire,  water,  and  air;  in  the  world — 
the  heavens,  the  earth,  the  air;  in  the  seasons — heat, 
cold,  mild  temperature:  in  humanity — the  spirit,  the 
body,  the  soul ; in  the  body — the  head,  the  feet,  the. 
trunk;  in  the  moral  organization — guilt, innocence, law, 
etc.  " These  are  followed  by  seven  doubles  (consisting 
of  i.  e.  the  relations  of  things  which  are 

subject  to  change  (opposition  without  balance),  e.  g.  life 
and  death,  happiness  and  misery,  wisdom  and  insanity, 
riches  and  poverty,  beauty  and  ugliness,  mastery  anil 
servitude.  But  these  seven  also  designate  the  material 
world,  namely,  the  six  ends  (sides)  of  the  cube,  and  the 
palace  of  holiness  in  the  middle  (the  immanent  deity) 
which  supports  it : also  the  seven  planets,  the  seven 
heavenly  spheres,  the  seven  days  of  the  week,  the  seven 
weeks  (from  l’assover  to  Pentecost),  the  seven  portals 
of  the  soul  (i.  c.  the  eyes,  ears,  nose,  mouth,  etc.).  This 
theory  further  has  express  reference  to  the  fact  that 


JEZLIAII 


917 


JEZREEL 


from  the  combination  of  the  letters  results,  with  mathe- 
matical certainty  and  in  a geometrical  ratio,  a quantity 
of  words  so  great  that  the  mind  cannot  enumerate  them; 
thus,  from  two  letters,  two  words ; from  three,  six ; from 
four,  twenty-four,  etc. ; or,  in  other  words,  that  the  let- 
ters, whether  spoken  as  results  of  breath,  or  written  as 
elements  of  words,  are  the  ideal  foundation  of  all  things. 
Finally,  the  twelve  single  letters  (constituting  the  re- 
mainder of  the  alphabet)  show  the  relations  of  things  so 
far  as  they  can  be  apprehended  in  a universal  category. 
Their  geometrical  representative  is  the  regular  twelve- 
sided polygon,  such  as  that  of  which  the  horizon  con- 
sists; their  representation  in  the  world  gives  the  twelve 
signs  of  the  zodiac  and  the  twelve  months  of  the  lirnar 
year;  in  human  beings,  the  twelve  parts  of  the  body  and 
twelve  faculties  of  the  mind  (these  being  very  arbitrari- 
ly determined).  They  are  so  organized  by  God  as  to 
form  at  once  a province  and  yet  be  ready  for  battle,  i.  e. 
they  are  as  well  fitted  for  harmonious  as  for  contentious 
action”  (Herzog). 

The  text  of  the  Jezirah  is  divided  into  six  chapters, 
which  are  subdivided  into  sections.  Its  style  is  purely 
dogmatic,  having  the  air  and  character  of  aphorisms, 
or  theorems  laid  down  with  an  absolute  authority. 
The  abstract  character  is.  however,  relieved  by  an  ha- 
gadistic  addition  which  relates  the  conversion  of  Abram 
from  Clialdiean  idolatry  to  pure  theism,  so  treated  as  to 
render  the  work  a kind  of  monologue  of  that  patri- 
arch on  the  natural  world,  as  a monument  or  manifesta- 
tion of  the  glory  of  the  one  only  God.  The  book  of 
Jezirah  has  been  published  with  five  commentaries 
(Mantua,  1562) ; with  a Latin  translation  and  notes  by 
Rittangelius  (Amst.  1642),  and  with  a German  transla- 
tion and  notes  by  Meyer  (Lpzg.  1830).  See  Griitz,  in 
Frankel’s  Monatsschrift,  viii,  67  sq.,  103  sq.,  140  sq. ; 
Steinschneider,  Catalog.  Libr.  Hebr.  in  Bibliotheca  Bocll. 
col.  335  sq.,  552,  63!)  sq. ; Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Jud.  i,  27  sq. ; 
ii,  258  sq.  See  Pantheism. 

Jezli'ah  (Heb.  Yizliah ',  tlNTiP,  perh.  drawn  out, 
i.  e. preserved;  Sept.  Tf£A<a  v.  r.  ’if^Xiac,  Vulg.  Jezlia), 
one  of  the  “ sons”  of  Elpaal,  and  apparently  a chief  Ben- 
jamite  resident  at  Jerusalem  (1  Chron.  viii,  18).  B.C. 
prob.  cir.  588. 

Jezo'ar  [some  Jez'oar]  (1  Chron.  iv,  7).  See 

ZOAR. 

Jezrahi'ah  (Neh.  xii,  42).  See  Israiiiah,  2. 

Jez'reel  (Heb.  Yizreel ,'  bxrnn,  once  bxrnt?,  2 
Kings  ix,  10;  sown  by  God;  Sept.  Tt£p«i)A,  but  some- 
times Tc£p(ijfA,T c£pac\  or  Ts^oalA  ; Josephus 

T t<rpdt]\a,  Ant.  viii,  13,  6 ; ’itopdtAa,  Ant.  ix,  6,  4),  the 
name  of  two  places  and  of  several  men. 

1.  A town  in  the  tribe  of  Issachar  (Josh,  xix,  18), 
where  the  kings  of  Israel  had  a palace  (2  Sam.  ii,  8 sq.), 
and  where  the  court  often  resided  (1  Kings  xviii,  45 ; 
xxi,  1 ; 2 Kings  ix,  30),  although  Samaria  was  the  me- 
tropolis of  that  kingdom.  It  is  most  frequently  men- 
tioned in  the  history  of  the  house  of  Ahab.  “ In  the 
neighborhood,  or  within  the  town  probably,  was  a tem- 
ple and  grove  of  Astarte,  with  an  establishment  of  400 
priests  supported  by  Jezebel  (1  Kings  xvi,33  ; 2 Kings 
x,  11).  The  palace  of  Ahab  (1  Kings  xxi,  1 ; xviii,  46), 
probably  containing  his  ‘ ivory  house’  (1  Kings  xxii, 
39),  was  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  city,  forming  part  of 
the  city  wall  (comp.  1 Kings  xxi,  1 ; 2 Kings  ix,  25,  30, 
33).  The  seraglio,  in  which  Jezebel  lived,  was  on  the 
city  wall,  and  had  a high  window  facing  eastward  (2 
Kings  ix,  30).  Close  by,  if  not  forming  part  of  this  se- 
raglio (as  Josephus  supposes,  Ant.  ix,  6,  4),  was  a watch- 
tower,  on  which  a sentinel  stood,  to  give  notice  of  ar- 
rivals from  the  disturbed  district  beyond  the  Jordan  (2 
Kings  ix,  17).  This  watch-tower,  well-known  as  ‘the 
tower  in  Jezreel,’  may  possibly  have  been  the  tower  or 
migdal  near  which  the  Egyptian  army  was  encamped  in 
the  battle  between  Necho  and  Josiah  (Herod,  ii,  159). 
An  ancient  square  tower  which  stands  amongst  the 
hovels  of  the  modern  village  may  be  its  representative. 


The  gateway  of  the  city  on  the  east  was  also  the  gate- 
way of  the  palace  (2  Kings  ix,  34).  Immediately  m 
front  of  the  gateway,  and  under  the  city  wall,  was  an 
open  space,  such  as  existed  before  the  neighboring  city 
of  Bethslian  (2  Sam.  xxi,  12),  and  is  usually  found  by 
the  walls  of  Eastern  cities,  under  the  name  of  ‘the 
mounds’  (see  .4  rabian  Nights,  passim),  whence  the  dogs, 
the  scavengers  of  the  East,  prowled  in  search  of  offal  (2 
Kings  ix,  25).  See  Jezebel.  A little  further  east, 
but  adjacent  to  the  royal  domain  (1  Kings  xxi,  l),was 
a smooth  tract  of  land  cleared  out  of  the  uneven  valley 
(2  Kings  i,  25),  which  belonged  to  Naboth,  a citizen  of 
Jezreel  (2  Kings  ix,  1),  by  a hereditary  right  (1  Kings 
xxi,  3);  but  the  royal  grounds  were  so  near  that  it 
would  have  easily  been  turned  into  a garden  of  herbs 
for  the  royal  use  (2  Kings  xxi,  2).  Here  Elijah  met 
Ahab,  Jehu,  and  Bidkar  (1  Kings  xxi,  17)”  (Smith). 
Here  was  the  vineyard  of  Naboth,  which  Ahab  coveted 
to  enlarge  the  palace-grounds  (1  Kings  xviii,  45,  46 ; 
xxi),  and  here  Jehu  executed  his  dreadful  commission 
against  the  house  of  Ahab,  when  Jezebel,  Jehoram,  and 
all  who  were  connected  with  that  wretehed  dynasty  per- 
ished (2  Kings  ix,  14-37 ; x,  1-1 1).  These  horrid  scenes 
appear  to  have  given  the  kings  of  Israel  a distaste  for 
this  residence,  as  it  is  not  again  mentioned  in  their  his- 
tory. It  is,  however,  named  by  Hosea  (i,4;  compare  i, 
11;  ii,  22) ; and  in  Judith  (i,  8;  iv,  3;  vii,  3)  it  occurs 
under  the  name  of  Esdraelou  (’E rrfpqXiov),  near  Do- 
thaim.  In  the  days  of  Eusebius  and  Jerome  it  was  still 
a large  village,  12  R.  miles  from  Scythopolis  and  10  from 
Legio,  called  Esdruela  ('ErrtfpaqAa,  Onomast.  s.  v.  'lt^- 
pai'e, A,  Jezrael) ; and  in  the  same  age  it  again  occurs  as 
Stradela  (I tin.  Ilieros.  p.  586).  Nothing  more  is  heard 
of  it  till  the  time  of  the  Crusades,  when  it  was  called  by 
the  Franks  Parcum  Gerimm,  and  by  the  Arabs  Zerin 
(an  evident  corruption  of  the  old  name);  and  it  is  de- 
scribed as  commanding  a wide  prospect — on  the  east  to 
the  mountains  of  Gilead,  and  on  the  west  to  Mount  Car- 
mel (Will.  Tyr.  xxii,  26).  But  this  line  of  identification 
seems  to  have  been  afterwards  lost  sight  of.  and  Jezreel 
came  to  be  identified  with  Jenin.  Indeed,  the  village 
of  Zerin  ceased  to  be  mentioned  by  travellers  till  Tur- 
ner, Buckingham,  and  others  after  them  again  brought 
it  into  notice;  and  it  is  still  more  lately  that  the  iden- 
tification of  Zerin  and  Jezreel  has  been  restored  (Rau- 
mer,  Palastina,  p.  155 ; Schubert,  iii,  164 ; Elliot,  ii,  379 ; 
Robinson,  iii,  164). 

Zerin  is  seated  on  the  brow  of  a rocky  and  very  steep 
descent  into  the  great  and  fertile  valley  of  Jezreel,  which 
runs  down  between  the  mountains  of  Gilboa  and  Iler- 
raon.  Lying  comparatively  high,  it  commands  a wide 
and  noble  view,  extending  down  the  broad  valley  on 
the  east  as  far  as  the  Jordan  (2  Kings  ix,  17)  to  Beisan 
(Bethshean),  and  on  the  west  quite  across  the  great 
plain  to  the  mountains  of  Carmel  (1  Kings  xviii,  46). 
It  is  described  by  Dr.  Robinson  ( Researches , iii,  163)  as  a 
most  magnificent  site  for  a city,  which,  being  itself  a 
conspicuous  object  in  every  part,  would  naturally  give 
its  name  to  the  whole  region.  In  the  valley  directly 
under  Zerin  is  a considerable  fountain,  and  another  still 
larger  somewhat  further  to  the  east,  under  the  northern 
side  of  Gilboa,  called  Ain  Jalud.  There  can,  therefore, 
be  little  question  that  as  in  Zerin  we  have  Jezreel,  so  in 
the  valley  and  the  fountain  we  have  the  “ valley  of  Jez- 
reel”  and  the  “fountain  of  Jezreel”  of  Scripture.  Ze- 
rin has  at  present  little  more  than  twenty  humble  dwell- 
ings, mostly  in  ruins,  and  with  few  inhabitants.  (See 
De  Sanlcy,  i,  79 ; ii,306  sq. ; Schwarz,  p.  164 ; Thomson, 
ii,  180.) — Kitto. 

The  inhabitants  of  this  city  were  called  Jezreklites 
(Heb.  Yezre'eli',  1 Kings  xxi,  1,4,  6,  7, 15, 16 ; 

2 Kings  ix,  21,  25). 

Jezreel,  Blood  of  (“‘‘“‘n,  i.  e.  bloodshed),  put  for 
the  murders  perpetrated  by  Ahab  and  Jehu  at  this  place 
(Hos.  i,  4).  See  below. 

Jezreel,  Day  of  (CP,  i.  e.  period),  put  for  the  pre- 


JEZREEL,  DITCH  OF 


918 


JEZREEL,  VALLEY  OF 


. . many  lilllHUJfceu  uy  a iici.uu  anu  naumc  itttc  »i»u  iuiu 

simply  the  fortification  or  mtrenchments  siirroundmg  «chariotsofiron->  (Josh.xvii,  1G).  The  region  fell  chiefly 
the  city,  outside  ol  which  N ahot  1 w as  exeen  e ( » t0  tbe  ]0t  of  lssachar,  but  neither  this  tribe  nor  its  more 

xxi,  23;  comp.  ver.  13).  bee  i.encti.  . powerful  neighbor  Ephraim  was  able  to  drive  out  the  an- 

Jezkeel,  Fountain'  of  (i“3‘,  always  a perennial  cjcilt  people  (xix,  18).  The  “ valley  of  Jezreel”  became 
natural  spring),  a place  where  Saul  encamped  before  the  the  s :ene  of  one  of  the  most  signal  victories  ever  achieved 
f.nal  battle  of  < iilboa  (1  Sam.  xxix,  1).  Still  in  the  py  tjie  Israelites,  and  of  one  of  the  most  melancholy  de- 
laine eastern  direction  from  Zerin  are  two  springs,  cine  feats  they  ever  sustained.  In  the  time  of  the  Judges, 
12  minutes  from  the  town,  the  other  20  minutes  (Robin-  t]ie  Midianites,  Amalekites,  and  “children  of  the  East’' 
son,  Pib.  Res.  iii,  1G7).  This  latter  spring  “flows  from  crossed  the  Jordan,  and  “pitched  in  the  valley  of  Jez- 
under  a sort  of  cavern  in  the  wall  of  conglomerate  rock,  reel,”  almost  covering  its  green  pastures  with  their 
which  here  forms  the  base  of  (iilboa.  The  water  is  ex-  tents>  flocks,  and  herds  (Judg.  vi,  33  sq.).  Gideon  has- 
cellent ; and  issuing  from  crevices  in  the  rocks,  it  spreads  tjlv  summoned  the  warriors  of  Israel  round  his  standard, 
out  at  once  into  a tine  limpid  pool  40  or  50  feet  in  diam-  an(j  took  up  a position  on  the  lower  slopes  of  Gilboa, 
cter,  lull  of  fish”  (Robinson,  iii,  1G8).  This  probably,  ciose  to  the  “well  of  Harod”  (vii,  1 : also  called  “the 
both  from  its  size  and  situation,  is  the  one  above  re-  fountain  of  Jezreel”),  about  a mile  east  of  the  city.  (See 
I'erred  to.  It  is  also  probably  the  same  as  the  spring  aPove.)  See  Gideon.  Two  centuries  later  the  Philis- 
(A.V.  “well”)  of  “ llarod,”  where  Gideon  encamped  be-  t;nes  tooj.  Up  t],e  identical  position  formerly  occupied 
fore  his  night  attack  on  the  Midianites  (Judg.  vii,  1).  py  Gie  Midianites,  and  the  Israelites  under  Sanl  pitched 
(Possibly  the  nearer  spring  may  distinctively  have  been  on  Gideon’s  old  camping-ground  bv  the  “fountain  of 
called  that  of  Jezreel,  and  the  farther  one  that  of  liar-  jczreel”  (1  Sam.  xxLx,  1-11).  The  Israelites  were  ele- 
od.)  The  name  of  llarod,  “ trembling,”  probably  was  feate{]>  aml  Saul  and  Jonathan,  with  the  flower  of  their 
taken  from  the  “ trembling”  of  Gideon's  army  (J udg.  vii,  troopSj  fcll  on  tlle  heights  of  Gilboa  (xxxi,  1_G).— Kitto. 
It  was  the  scene  of  successive  encampments  of  the  See  Saul. 

In  later  ages  the  valley  of  Jezreel  seems  to  have  ex- 


Crusaders  and  Saracens,  and  was  called  by  the  Chris- 
tians i 

ol  Goliath  (Robinson,  bib.  lu-a.  iii,G9).  lliis  last  name,  draelon,  which  continued  to  be  the  scene  of  the  greatest 
which  it  still  bears,  is  dented  from  a tradition  men-  military  evolutions  of  Palestine.  This  latter  is.  indeed, 
tioned  by  the  the  most  extensive  level  in  the  Holy  Land  (ro  ireciov 


( ioliath.  The  tradition  may  be  a confused  reminiscence 


H'tya  simply,  1 Macc,  xii,  49;  Josephus,  Ant.  xv,  1,  22; 


of  many  battles  fought  in  its  neighborhood  (Ritter,  Jo?--  ^ 2,  3 iii,  8,  5:  xv,  8,  5 ; War,  iii,  3,  1 ; Life,  41 ; 
</,?»,  p.  416) ; or  the  word  may  be  a corruption  of  “Gil-  fully  r6  ^ya  ’EocfgXwp,  Judith  i,  8).  It  is  the 


, * . xiri,  1G).  It  extends  about  thirty  nines  jii  louiiLu  noiii 

were  executed,  where  the  dogs  and  swine  heked  up  their  east  to  west  and  eighteen  in  breadth  from  north  to 
blood  and  that  of  Ahab,  and  where  the  harlots  bathed  south>  It  is  bounded  on  the  north  by  the  mountains  of 
in  the  blood-stained  water  (Sept.).  l>ut  the  natural  in-  Galilee,  and  on  the  south  by  those  of  Samaria;  on  the 
ferenee  from  the  present  text  of  1 Kings  xxn,  38  makes  . 


eastern  part  by  Mount  Tabor,  the  Little  Hermon,  and 


the  seem  of  11, cw  events  to  be  the  pool  of  Samaria—  • and  „„  th  WMt  bv  Carmcl  tet„.ec„  wMcb 

Smith.  See  Naboth.  1 - 


Jezreel,  Portion  of  (psn),  merely  signifies  the 
field  or  country  adjoining  the  city,  where  the  crime  of 


range  and  the  mountains  of  Galilee  is  an  outlet,  where- 
by the  river  Kishon  winds  its  way  to  the  bay  of  Aero 
(see  Robinson’s  Researches,  iii,  1G0-1G2, 181, 227).  Here, 


Ahab  had  been  perpetrated,  and  where  its  retribution  in  the  most  fertile  part  of  the  land  of  Canaan  (see  Has- 


was  to  he  exacted  (2  Kings  ix,  10.  21,  Sfi,  37 ; comp.  ver. 
23,  2G).  Naboth  was  stoned  to  death  outside  the  city 
of  Jezreel  (1  Kings  xxi,  13),  and  the  dogs  licked  up 


selquist,  Truv.  p.  17G;  Troilo,  p.  545;  Maundrell,  p.  7G; 
Schubert,  iii,  103,  IGG),  the  tribe  of  Issacliar  rejoiced  in 
their  tents  (Deut.  xxxiii,  18).  In  the  first  ages  of  Jew- 


Aliab  s blood  that  was  clotted  in  the  bottom  of  his  char-  isli  history,  as  well  as  during  the  Roman  empire  and 
iot,  before  it  was  washed,  near  the  pool  of  Samaria  (1  , the  Crusades,  and  even  in  later  times,  this  plain  has 
Kings  xxii,  3o,  38) ; hence  Schwarz  {Palest,  p.  1G5,  note)  I been  the  scene  of  many  a memorable  contest  (see  Rob- 


proposes  to  render  the  expression  E'.p*:2 
“in  the  place  where”  (occurring  in  the 
sentence  of  retaliation,  1 Kings  xxi,  19),  as 
signifying  “in  punishment  for  that;”  but  this 
construction  is  not  in  accordance  with  the 
Hob.  idiom  (see  Gesenius’s  Lex.  s.  v.  Cip*3), 
and  the  other  incidents  furnish  a sufficient- 
ly exact  fulfilment  of  the  prediction  (see 
Clarke’s  Comment,  ad  loc.). 

Jezreel,  Tower  of  (bnsp,  Sept.  irm- 
yoc),  was  one  of  the  turrets  or  bastions  guard- 
ing the  entrance  to  the  city,  and  sentinelled 
as  usual  by  a watchman  (2  Kings  ix,  17). 
Sec  above. 

Jkzreeg  Valley  of  (p22,  Josh,  xvii, 
16;  Judg.  vi.  33;  Hos.  i,  5).  On  the  north- 
ern side  of  the  city,  between  the  parallel 
ridges  of  Gilboa  and  Moreli  (now  called  Jehel 
ed-1  hihv;  see  Morkii),  lies  a rich  valley 
(hence  its  name,  Gods  seeding-ptace),  an  uff- 


Map  ol  the  Valley  of  Jezreel  and  Plaiu  of  Esdraelon. 


JEZIIEEL 


919 


JIPIITHAII-EL 


inson,  Researches,  ii,  233).  The  same  plain  was  the 
scene  of  the  conflict  of  the  Israelites  ami  the  Syrians  (1 
Kings  xx,  26-30).  Here  also  Josiah,  king  of  Jiulali, 
fought  in  disguise  against  IS’ echo,  king  of  Egypt,  anil 
fell  by  the  arrows  of  his  antagonist  (2  Kings  xxiii,  29). 
Josephus  often  mentions  this  remarkable  part  of  the 
Holy  Land,  and  always  (as  above)  under  the  appella- 
tion of  Me  Great  Plain;  under  the  same  name  it  is  also 
spoken  of  by  Eusebius  and  Jerome  (in  the  Onomast.). 
“It  has  been  a chosen  place  for  encampment,”  says  Dr. 
E.  Clarke,  “in  every  contest  from  the  days  of  Nabucha- 
donosor,  king  of  the  Assyrians,  in  the  history  of  whose 
war  with  Arphaxad  (Judith  i,  8)  it  is  mentioned  as  the 
great  plain  of  Esdraelon,  until  the  disastrous  march  of 
the  late  Napoleon  Bonaparte  from  Egypt  into  Syria. 
Jews,  Gentiles,  Saracens,  Christian  crusaders,  Egyptians, 
Persians,  Druses,  Turks,  Arabs,  and  French,  warriors  out 
of  every  nation  which  is  under  heaven,  have  pitched 
their  tents  in  the  plain  of  Esdraelon,  and  have  beheld 
the  various  banners  of  their  nation  wet  with  the  dews 
of  Tabor  and  of  Ilermon.”  (For  other  notices  of  this 
place,  see  De  Saitlcy’s  Narrative,  ii,  300-31 1 .)  This  no- 
ble plain,  like  the  greater  portion  of  all  the  rich  plains 
of  Palestine  and  Syria,  is  in  the  hands  of  the  govern- 
ment, and  is  only  partially  cultivated;  the  soil  is  deep, 
of  a dark  red  color,  inclined  to  be  clayey,  and  cannot  be 
surpassed  in  natural  fertility  (see  Relaml,  Palcest.  p.  366 
sq. ; llamesveld,  i,  418  sq.).  See  Esdkaklox. 

2.  A town  in  the  mountains  of  Judah,  mentioned  be- 
tween Juttah  and  Jokdcam  (Josh,  xv,  56),  situated  (ac- 
cording to  the  associated  names)  in  the  district  south- 
east of  Hebron,  on  the  edge  of  the  desert  of  Judah.  It 
is  possibly  identical  with  the  modern  ruined  site  'Zurtut , 
which  lies  in  a fertile  region  (Robinson,  Researches,  ii, 
201),  as  the  name  Jezreel  implies.  See  No.  3.  It  was 
probably  this  place  (1  Sam.  xxv,  43)  from  which  came 
Ahinoam,  one  of  David’s  wives  (comp,  the  neighboring 
Carmel,  where  Abigail,  his  other  wife,  taken  about  the 
same  time,  resided),  the  Jezueelitess  (PhblO‘‘n)1',  1 
Sam.  xxvii,  3;  xxx,  5;  2 Sam.  ii,  2;  iii,  2;  IChron.  iii, 
1).  SeeAuEZ. 

3.  A descendant  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  iv,  3,  where  two 
brothers  and  a sister  are  also  mentioned),  apparently 
of  the  same  family  with  I’enuel  anil  Ezer,  “sons”  of 
Ilur,  the  grandson  of  llezron  (ver.  4).  From  the  fre- 
quent association  of  names  of  places  in  the  vicinity  of 
Bethlehem  in  the  same  connection,  it  is  probable  that 
this  Jezreel  was  the  founder  of  the  town  in  the  tribe  of 
Judah  (No.  2,  above)  which  bore  his  name.  In  the 
text  it  is  stated  of  him  and  his  relatives,  “ these  are  the 
father  of  Etam”  (QI2‘,3;  “^X  r&X),  Sept,  icai  ovrot 
inoi  Air  dp,  Vulg.  ista  quoque  stirps  Etam,  Auth.  Vers, 
“and  these  are  of  the  fathers  of  Etam”),  meaning  ap- 
parently that  they  founded  or  resided  in  the  place  by 
that  name;  and,  as  several  other  towns  in  the  same 
general  neighborhood  are  expressly  assigned  to  separate 
individuals  in  the  enumeration,  this  must  be  ascribed 
specially  to  Ishma  and  Idbash,  who,  with  their  sister, 
are  the  onl)T  two  not  thus  particularly  identified  with 
any  other  locality.  B.C.  cir.  1612. 

4.  A symbolical  name  given  by  the  prophet  Ilosea 
to  his  oldest  son  (Hos.  i,  4),  then  just  born  (Il.C.  cir. 
782),  in  token  of  a great  slaughter  predicted  by  him, 
like  that  which  had  before  so  often  drenched  the  soil  of 
the  plain  of  Esdraelon  with  blood  (ii,  2).  He  is  after- 
wards made,  together  with  his  brother  Lo-ammi  and 
his  sister  Lo-ruhama  (i,  6,  9),  emblems  of  the  Jewish 
’people  to  be  restored  after  punishment  and  dispersion  in 
the  approaching  exile,  and  to  be  augmented  by  new  fa- 
vors (ii,  24,25).  In  this  way  is  to  be  understood  the 
vexed  passage  of  the  same  prophet  (Hos.  ii,  22),  “And 
the  earth  shall  hear  [rather,  answer,  and  yield]  the 
corn,  and  the  wine,  and  the  oil  [due  from  the  soil];  and 
they  [i.  e.  these  gifts  of  the  earth]  shall  hear  [answer] 
Jezreel,”  i.  e.  the  earth,  rendered  fertile  from  heaven  (see 
ver.  21),  shall  yield  anew  her  produce  to  (the  tillers  of) 


Jezreel.  The  prophet  then  (ver.  23)  carries  out  the  ref- 
erence to  his  son,  with  evident  allusion  to  the  significa- 
tion of  the  name  Jezreel,  which  implies  the  productive- 
ness of  that  plain,  “ And  I will  sow  her  [i.  e.  him  and  it, 
Jezreel  being  construed  as  a fern.,  like  other  collectives, 
c.  g.  Ephraim  in  Isa.  xvii,  10,  11,  etc.]  unto  me  in  the 
earth  ; and  I will  have  mercy  upon  her  that  had  not  ob- 
tained mercy  [i.  e.  again  cherish  Lo-ruhama'],  and  I 
will  say  to  them  which  were  not  my  people  [ i.  e.  to 
Lo-ammi],  Thou  art  my  people,  and  they  shall  say, 
Thou  art  my  God  i.  e.  the  whole  people  of  Israel,  whom 
the  prophet  thus  emblematically  represents  by  his  three 
children,  will  again  be  planted,  cherished,  and  claimed 
by  Jehovah  as  his  own. — Gesenius.  See  Hose  A.  “ From 
this  time  the  image  seems  to  have  been  continued  as  a 
prophetical  expression  for  the  sowing  the  people  of  Is- 
rael, as  it  were  broadcast;  as  if  the  whole  of  Pales- 
tine and  the  world  were  to  become,  in  a spiritual  sense, 
one  rich  plain  of  Jezreel.  ‘ I will  sow  them  among  the 
people,  and  they  shall  remember  me  in  far  countries’ 
(Zech.  x,  9).  ‘ Ye  shall  be  tilled  and  sown,  and  I will 

multiply  men  upon  you’  (Ezek.  xxxvi,  9, 10).  ‘ I will 

sow  the  house  of  Israel  and  the  house  of  Judah  with  the 
seed  of  men  and  with  the  seed  of  beast’  (Jer.  xxxi,  27). 
Hence  the  consecration  of  the  image  of  ‘sowing,’  as  it 
appears  in  the  N.  T.  (Matt,  xii,  2)”V(Smith). 

Jez'reelite  (1  Kings  xxi,  1,  4, 6, 7, 15, 16 ; 2 Kings 
ix,  21, 25),  an  inhabitant  of  Jezreel  (q.v.),  in  Issachar. 

Jez'reelitess  (1  Sam.  xxvii,  3;  xxx,  5;  2 Sam.  ii, 
2;  1 Chron.  iii,  1),  a woman  of  Jezreel  (q.v.),  in  Ju- 
dah. 

Jib'sam  (Hebrew  Yibsam',  pleasant ; Sept. 

’]tl3arrdfi  v.  r. ' f ( paaav),  one  of  the  “soils”  of  Tola,  the 
son  of  Issachar,  a valiant  chief,  apparently  of  the  time 
of  David  (1  Chron.  vii,  2).  B.C.  cir.  1017. 

Jid'laph  (Hebrew  Yullaph',  S&'l?,  tearful;  Sept. 
’If \Scaf),  the  seventh  named  of  the  eight  sons  of  Nahor 
(Abraham’s  brother)  by  Milcah  (Gen.  xxii,  22).  B.C. 
cir.  2040. 

Jim'na  (Numb.  xxvi,44),  Jim'nah  (Gen.  xlvi,  17), 
Jim'nite  (Numb,  xvi,  44).  Sec  Imxa. 

Jiph'tali  (Heb.  Yiphtach',  nns*1,  the  same  name 
as  Jephthah;  Sept.  Tt^S’d),  a town  in  the  “lowland” 
district  of  Judah,  mentioned  between  Ashan  and  Ash- 
mah  (Josh,  xv,  43),  and  lying  in  the  southern  medial 
group  west  of  Hebron  and  east  of  Elcutheropolis.  See 
JlTDAii.  Some  (e.  g.  Keil,  ad  loc.)  have  located  it  in 
the  mountain  district,  contrary  to  the  text;  but,  al- 
though the  import  of  the  name  implies  a “defile”  ad- 
joining, and  the  associated  names  are  indicative  of  nat- 
urally strong  positions,  yet  the  “plain”  or  tihephelah  (q. 
v.)  here  actualhr  comes  quite  far  in  this  direction  to  the 
proper  “hill  country”  (Robinson,  Researches,  iii,  13). 
)Ve  may  therefore  presume  a location  for  Jiphtah  at  the 
ruined  village  Jimrin,  where  a smaller  valley  runs  up 
south  from  wady  el-Melck  (Robinson, ii, 342,  note;  Van 
de  Velde’s  Map,  ed.  1864). 

Jiph'thali-el  (Ileb.  Yiphtach'-el,  ^XTirS"1,  open- 
ing of  God;  Sept.  [ Tni]  ’UrpSaif),  a valley  at  the  in- 
tersection of  the  line  between  Asher  and  Naphtali  with 
the  northern  boundary  of  Zebulon  (Josh,  xix,  14,  27). 
Dr.  Robinson,  with  great  probability,  suggests  (new  ed. 
of  Researches,  iii,  106, 107)  that  the  name  is  represented 
by  that  of  Jotapata  (Iwrairara),  the  renowned  fortress 
of  Galilee  mentioned  by  Josephus  as  having  been  forti- 
fied by  himself  (ire/r,  ii,  20,  6;  Life,  37),  and  then  as 
having  held  out,  under  his  own  command,  against  the 
continued  assaults  of  Vespasian,  and  where  he  was  at 
last  taken  prisoner  after  the  downfall  of  the  place  (1  Var, 
iii,  7,  3-36).  He  describes  it  as  surrounded  by  a preci- 
pice, except  on  the  north,  where  the  city  extended  out 
upon  the  sloping  extremity  of  the  opposite  mountain; 
the  deep  valleys  on  the  other  sides  were  overlooked  by 
surrounding  mountains.  It  contained  no  fountains,  but 
only  cisterns,  with  caverns  and  subterranean  recesses. 


JIREII 


920 


JOAB 


Roland  had  already  remarked  ( Paleest . p.  816,  867)  tliat 
the  (I, , paint  a (XrrS'3)  of  the  Talmudic  writings,  three 
miles  from  Scpphoris,  was  probably  identical  with  this 
place.  1 1 is  doubtless  the  modern  Jefat,  which  lies  four 
or  five  English  miles  from  Sefurieh.  It  was  first  visited 
and  identified  by  Schultz  (Kilter,  Erdh  xvi,  763  si].). 
The  valley  in  question  would  thus  answer  to  the  great 
wady  Abilin,  which  runs  south-westerly  from  Jefat,  the 
boundary  between  Asher  and  Zebulon  following  the  line 
of  hills  'between  Sukhnin  and  Kefr  Menda,  in  which 
this  wady  has  its  head  (Robinson,  ut  sup.'),  rather  than 
to  the  deeper  wady  Jiddin,  considerably  south  of  this, 
and  running  in  the  same  direction,  on  the  southern  side 
of  which  stands  the  village  of  Arukah,  therefore  not  al- 
together answering  to  Beth-Emek  (as  thought  by  Dr. 
Smith,  Bibliotheca  Sacra , 1853,  p.  121),  which  was  thus 
situated  on  the  valley  Jiphthah-el  (Josh,  xix,  27).  Dr. 
Thomson,  while  justly  objecting  to  the  latter  valley,  as 
being  too  far  north  (Land  and  Book,  i,  472),  proposes  as 
the  site  of  Jiphthah  the  ruined  site  Jiftah,  “situated  on 
the  edge  of  the  long  valley  [rather  plain]  of  Turan ,” 
which  he  would  identify  with  the  “valley  of  Jiphthah- 
el”  ( ib . ii,  122);  but  this,  on  the  other  hand,  lies  even 
south  of  Kumaneh  (Ilimmon),  which  undoubtedly  lay 
within  Zebulon  (l  Chron.  vi,  77).  The  title  (5^3,  rav- 
ine, and  not  bn2,  wady,  i.  e.  “valley  watered  by  a 
brook see  Gescnius,  Lexic.  s.  v.)  properly  designates 
this  fine  pass  (hence  the  superlative  name,  God's  Defile), 
which  connects  the  rich  plain  el-Buttauf  on  the  east 
with  the  yet  more  fertile  plain  of  Acre  on  the  west,  and 
is  described  by  the  Scottish  deputation  as  “inclosed 
with  steep  wooded  hills;  sometimes  it  narrates  almost 
to  the  straitness  of  a defile.  . . . The  valley  is  long,  and 
declines  very  gently  towards  the  west;  the  hills  on 
either  side  are  often  finely  wooded,  sometimes  rocky 
and  picturesque.  The  road  is  one  of  the  best  in  Pales- 


bnt,  being  whetted  by  the  natural  rivalry  of  position 
between  him  and  Abner,  he  afterwards  made  it  the  ex- 
cuse of  his  policy  by  treacherously,  in  the  act  of  friend- 
ly communication,  slaying  Abner,  at  the  very  time 
when  the  services  of  the  latter  to  David,  to  whom  he 
had  then  turned,  had  rendered  him  a most  dangerous 
rival  to  him  in  power  and  influence  (2  Sam.  iii,  22-27). 
That  Abner  had  at  first  suspected  that  Joab  would  take 
the  position  of  blood-avenger  [see  Blood- revenge]  is 
clear  from  the  apprehension  which  he  expressed  (2  Sam. 
ii,  22) ; but  that  he  thought  that  Joab  had,  under  all 
the  circumstances,  abandoned  this  position,  is  shown  by 
the  unsuspecting  readiness  with  which  he  went  aside 
with  him  (2  Sam.  iii,  26,  27);  and  that  Joab  placed  his 
murderous  act  on  the  footing  of  vengeance  for  his  broth- 
er’s blood  is  plainly  stated  in  2 Sam.  iii,  30;  by  which 
it  also  appears  that  the  other  brother,  Abishai,  shared 
in  some  way  in  the  deed  and  its  responsbilities.  At  the 
same  time,  as  Abner  was  perfectly  justified  in  slaying 
Asahel  to  save  his  own  life,  it  is  very  doubtful  if  Joab 
would  ever  have  asserted  his  right  of  blood-revenge  had 
not  Abner  appeared  likely  to  endanger  his  influence 
with  David.  The  king,  much  as  he  reprobated  the  act, 
knew  that  it  had  a sort  of  excuse  in  the  old  customs  of 
blood-revenge,  and  he  stood  habitually  too  much  in  awe 
of  his  impetuous  and  able  nephew  to  bring  him  to  pun- 
ishment, or  even  to  displace  him  from  his  command. 
“ I am  this  day  weak,”  he  said,  “ though  anointed  king, 
and  these  men,  the  sons  of  Zeruiah,  be  too  hard  for  me” 
(2  Sam.  iii,  39).  B.C.  1046.  Desirous  probably  of  mak- 
ing some  atonement  before  David  and  the  public  for 
this  atrocity,  in  a way  which  at  the  same  time  was 
most  likely  to  prove  effectual,  namely,  by  some  daring 
exploit,  Joab  was  the  first  to  mount  to  the  assault  at  the 
storming  of  the  fortress  on  Mount  Zion,  which  had  re- 
mained so  long  in  the  hands  of  the  Jebusites,  B.C.  cir. 
1044.  By  this  service  he  acquired  the  chief  command 


tine,  and  was  no  doubt  much  frequented  in  ancient  days”  } 0f  the  army  of  all  Israel,  of  which  David  was  by  this 


(Report,  p.  309,  310).  There  seems  also  to  be  an  allu* 
sion  to  the  etymological  force  of  the  name  (q.  d.  the 
openiny  out  of  a gorge  into  a plain)  in  the  statement 


(Josh,  xix,  II), “And  the  outgoings  thereof  are  in  the  equipment  and  baggage  (2 
valley  of  Jiphthah-el”  (comp.  Dent,  xxxiii,  18,  “And  of  the  charge,  formerly  belongii 
Zebulon  he  said,  Rejoice,  Zebulon,  in  thy  goings  out").  giving  the  signal  by  trumpc 


time  king  (2  Sam.  v,  6-10).  He  had  a chief  armor- 
hearer  of  his  own,  Naharai,  a Beerothite  (2  Sam.  xxiii, 
37 ; 1 Chron.  xi,  39),  and  ten  attendants  to  carry  his 
;agc  (2  Sam.  xviii,  15).  lie  had 
belonging  to  the  king  or  judge,  of 
giving  the  signal  by  trumpet  for  advance  or  retreat  (2 
Sam.  xviii,  16).  lie  was  called  by  the  almost  regal 
title  of  “lord”  (2  Sam.  xi,  11),  “the  prince  of  the  king’s 

t '”0.  /it  i -i - ....  T , , ■ , ■ s army”  (I  Chron.  xxvii,  34).  His  usual  residence  (ex- 

Jo  ab  (lleb.  Iroab , "X**,  Jehovah  is  Ins  father;  / , . \ 7 . T , , . . , , 

, , * t ’ J ’ cept  when  campaigning)  was  in  Jerusalem,  but  he  had 

nt.  Imaii.  but  in  1 Chron.  ii.  16V  the  name  a h011ge  ail([  property,  with  barley-fields  adjoining,  in 

the  country  (2  Sam.  xiv,  30),  in  the  “wilderness”  (1 
Kings  ii,  34),  probably  on  the  north-east  of  Jerusalem 
(compare  1 Sam.  xiii,  18 ; Josh,  viii,  15,  20),  near  an  an- 
cient sanctuary,  called  from  its  nomadic  village  “ Baal- 


iojoice, 

Jireh.  See  Jkiiovah-jireii. 
Jizchaki.  SeeR.vsiii;  Saktar. 


Sept,  'hodfi,  but  ’I wfidfi  in  1 Chron.  ii,  16),  the  name 
of  tlire"'  men.  See  also  Atauotii-ketii-Joab. 

1.  The  son  of  Seraiah  (son  of  Kenaz,  of  the  tribe  of 
Judah),  and  progenitor  of  the  inhabitants  of  Charashim 
or  craftsmen  (1  Chron.  iv,  14).  B.C.  post  1567. 


2.  One  of  the  three  sons  of  Zeruiah,  the  sister  of  Da-  hazor”  (2  Sam.  xiii,  23;  compare  with  xiv,  30),  where 


vid  (2  Sam.  viii,  16;  xx,  13),  and  “captain  of  the  host' 
(generalissimo  of  the  army)  during  nearly  the  whole  of 
David’s  reign  (2  Sam.  ii,  13;  x,  7 ; xi,  1;  1 Kings  xi, 
15;  2 Sam.  xviii,  2).  It  is  a little  remarkable  tliat  he 
is  designated  by  his  maternal  parentage  only,  his  father’s 


there  were  extensive  sheepwalks.  It  is  possible  that 
this  “house  of  Joab”  may  have  given  its  name  to  Ata- 
rotli  Beth-Joab  (1  Chron.  ii,  54),  to  distinguish  it  from 
Ataroth-adar.  II  is  great  military  achievements,  which 
he  conducted  in  person,  may  be  divided  into  three  cam- 


name  being  nowhere  mentioned  in  the  Scriptures.  Jo-  paigns:  (a)  The  first  was  against  the  allied  forces  of 
Kophns  ( F utdiiotj),  indeed,  gives  (.1  ut.  vii,  1,3)  the  father’s  Syria  and  Ammon.  He  attacked  and  defeated  the  Syr- 
nnmc  as  Sni'i  (1’m-pi),  but  this  maybe  merely  a repet  i-  ians,  while  his  brother  Abishai  did  the  same  for  the 
tiou  ol  the  preceding  Sarouiah  (2apom«).  Perhaps  he  Ammonites.  The  Syrians  rallied  with  their  kindred 
was  a foreigner,  lie  seems  to  have  resided  at  Bcthle-  tribes  from  beyond  the  Euphrates,  and  were  finally 
hein,  and  to  have  died  before  his  sous,  as  we  find  men-  routed  hv  Tlnviil  tnmcntf  Sno  H inini*7iriT  elS  TRp 
tion  of  his  sepulchre  at  tliat  place  (2  Sam.  ii,  32). 


routed  by  David  himself.  See  Hadakezer.  (6)  The 
second  was  against  Edom.  The  decisive  victory  was 
Jonh  first  appears  associated  with  his  two  brothers,  gained  by  David  himself  in  the  “valley  of  salt,'”  ancl 

celebrated  by  a triumphal  monument  (1  Sam.  viii,  13). 
But  Joab  had  the  charge  of  carrying  out  the  victory, - 
and  remained  for  six  months  extirpating  the  male  pop- 
ulation, whom  lie  then  buried  in  the  tombs  of  Petra  (1 
Kings  xi,  15,  16).  So  long  was  the  terror  of  his  name 


Abishai  and  Asahel,  in  the  command  of  David’s  troop 
against  Abner,  who  had  set  up  the  claims  of  a son  of 
Saul  in  opposition  to  those  of  David,  then  reigning  in 
Hebron.  The  armies  having  met  at  the  pool  of  Gibeon, 
a general  action  was  brought  on,  in  which  Abner  was 
worsted,  B.( 1053.  See  Gibkon.  In  his  flight  he  had  j preserved  that  onlv  when  The  fugitive  prince  of  Edom, 
the  misfortune  to  kill  Joab’s  brother,  the  swift-footed  ; in  the  Egyptian  court,  heard  that-  “David  slept  with 
Asahel.  by  whom  he  was  pursued  (2  Sam.  ii,  13-32).  j his  fathers,  and  that  Joab,  the  captain  of  the  host,  was 
bm.k,  Asauku  Joab  smothered  lor  a time  his  i dead”  did  he  venture  to  return  to  his  own  country  (ib. 
resentment  against  the  shedder  of  his  brother’s  blood;  | xi,  21,  22).  (c)  The  third  was  against  the  Ammonites. 


JOAB 


921 


JOACIM 


They  were  again  left  to  Joab  (2  Sam.  x,  7-19).  He 
went  against  them  at  the  beginning  of  the  next  year, 
“ at  the  time  when  kings  go  out  to  battle” — to  the  siege, 
of  Kabbah.  The  ark  was  sent  with  him,  and  the  whole 
army  was  encamped  in  booths  or  huts  round  the  be- 
leaguered city  (2  Sam.  xi,  1,  11).  After  a sortie  of  the 
inhabitants,  which  caused  some  loss  to  the  Jewish  army, 
Joab  took  the  lower  city  on  the  river,  and  then,  with 
true  loyalty,  sent  to  urge  David  to  come  and  take  the 
citadel,  “ Kabbah,”  lest  the  glory  of  the  capture  should 
pass  from  the  king  to  his  general  (2  Sam.  xii,  26-28). 

It  is  not  necessary  to  trace  in  detail  the  later  acts  of 
Joab,  seeing  that  they  are  in  fact  part  of  the  public  rec- 
ord of  the  king  he  served.  See'  David.  lie  served 
him  faithfully,  both  in  political  and  private  relations; 
for,  although  he  knew  his  power  over  David,  and  often 
treated  him  with  little  ceremony,  there  can  be  no  doubt 
that  he  was  most  truly  devoted  to  his  interests.  Hut 
Joab  had  no  principles  apart  from  what  he  deemed  his 
duty  to  the  king  and  the  people,  and  was  quite  as  ready 
to  serve  his  master’s  vices  as  his  virtues,  so  long  as  they 
did  not  interfere  with  his  own  interests,  or  tended  to 
promote  them  by  enabling  him  to  make  himself  useful 
to  the  king.  (See  Niemeyer,  Charcikt.  iv,458  sq.)  His 
ready  apprehension  of  the  king’s  meaning  in  the  matter 
of  Uriah,  and  the  facility  with  which  he  made  himself, 
the  instrument  of  the  murder,  and  of  the  hypocrisy  by 
which  it  was  covered,  are  proofs  of  this,  and  form  as 
deep  a stain  upon  his  character  as  his  own  murders  (2 
Sam.  xi,  14-25),  B.C.  1035.  As  Joab  was  on  good  terms 
with  Absalom,  and  had  taken  pains  to  bring  about  a rec- 
onciliation between  him  and  his  father,  we  may  set  the 
higher  value  upon  his  firm  adhesion  to  David  when  Ab- 
salom revolted,  and  upon  his  stern  sense  of  duty  to  the 
king — from  whom  he  expected  no  thanks — displayed  in 
putting  an  end  to  the  war  by  the  slaughter  of  his  favor- 
ite son,  when  all  others  shrunk  from  the  responsibility 
of  doing  the  king  a service  against  his  own  will  (2  Sam. 
xviii,  1-14).  B.C.  cir.  1023.  In  like  manner,  when  Da- 
vid unhappily  resolved  to  number  the  people,  Joab  dis- 
cerned the  evil  and  remonstrated  against  it,  and  al- 
though he  did  not  venture  to  disobey,  he  performed  the 
duty  tardily  and  reluctantly,  to  afford  the  king  an  op- 
portunity of  reconsidering  the  matter,  and  took  no  pains 
to  conceal  how  odious  the  measure  was  to  him  (2  Sam. 
xxxiv,  1-4).  David  was  certainly  ungrateful  for  the 
services  of  Joab  when,  in  order  to  conciliate  the  pow- 
erful party  which  had  supported  Absalom,  he  offered 
the  command  of  the  host  to  Amasa,  who  had  command- 
ed the  army  of  Absalom  (2  Sam.  xix,  13).  But  the  in- 
efficiency of  the  new  commander,  in  the  emergency 
which  the  revolt  of  Bichri’s  son  produced,  arising  per- 
haps from  the  reluctance  of  the  troops  to  follow  their 
new  leader,  gave  Joab  an  opportunity  of  displaying  his 
superior  resources,  and  also  of  removing  his  rival  by  a 
murder  very  similar  to  that  of  Abner,  and  in  some  re- 
spects less  excusable  and  more  foul.  See  Amasa.  Be- 
sides, Amasa  was  his  own  cousin,  being  the  son  of  his 
mother’s  sister  (2  Sam.  xx,  1-13).  B.C.  cir.  1022. 

When  David  lay  apparently  on  his  death-bed,  and  a 
demonstration  was  made  in  favor  of  the  succession  of 
the  eldest  surviving  son,  Adonijah.  whose  interests  had 
been  compromised  by  the  preference  of  the  young  Solo- 
mon, Joab  joined  the  party  of  the  former.  B.C.  cir. 
1015.  It  would  be  unjust  to  regard  this  as  a defection 
from  David.  It  was  nothing  more  or  less  than  a dem- 
onstration in  favor  of  the  natural  heir,  which,  if  not  then 
made,  could  not  be  made  at  all.  But  an  act  which 
would  have  beeu  justifiable  had  the  preference  of  Solo- 
mon been  a mere  caprice  of  the  old  king,  became  crimi- 
nal as  an  act  of  contumacy  to  the  divine  king,  the  real 
head  of  the  government,  who  had  called  the  house  of 
David  to  the  throne,  and  had  the  sole  right  of  determin- 
ing which  of  its  members  should  reign.  We  learn  from 
David’s  last  song  that  his  powerlessuess  over  his  court- 
iers was  even  then  present  to  his  mind  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  6, 
7),  and  now  he  recalled  to  Solomon’s  recollection  the  two 


murders  of  Abner  and  Amasa  (1  Kings  ii,  5, 6),  with  an 
injunction  not  to  let  the  aged  soldier  escape  with  impu- 
nity. When  the  prompt  measures  taken  under  the  di- 
rection of  the  king  rendered  Adonijah’s  demonstration 
abortive  (1  Kings  i,  7),  Joab  withdrew  into  private  life 
till  some  time  after  the  death  of  David,  when  the  fate 
of  Adonijah,  and  of  Abiathar — whose  life  was  only  spared 
in  consequence  of  his  sacerdotal  character — warned  Joab 
that  lie  had  little  mercy  to  expect  from  the  new  king, 
lie  fied  for  refuge  to  the  altar;  but  when  Solomon  heard 
this,  he  sent  Benaiah  to  put  ium  to  death ; and,  as  he 
refused  to  come  forth,  gave  orders  that  he  should  be 
slain  even  at  the  altar.  Thus  died  one  of  the  most  ac- 
complished warriors  and  unscrupulous  men  that  Israel 
ever  produced.  II  is  corpse  was  removed  to  his  domain 
in  the  wilderness  of  Judah,  and  buried  there  (1  Kings 
ii,  5,  28-34).  B.C.  cir.  1012.  He  left  descendants,  but 
nothing  is  known  of  them,  unless  it  may  be  inferred 
from  the  double  curse  of  David  (2  Ham.  iii,  39)  and  of 
Solomon  (1  Kings  ii,  23)  that  they  seemed  to  dwindle 
away,  stricken  by  a succession  of  Visitations — weakness, 
leprosy,  lameness,  murder,  starvation.  His  name  is  by 
some  supposed  (in  allusion  to  his  part  in  Adonijah’s  cor- 
onation on  that  spot)  to  be  preserved  in  the  modern  ap- 
pellation of  Enrogel — “ the  well  of  Job” — corrupted  from 
Joab. — Kitto;  Smith. 

3.  One  of  the  “sons”  of  Pahatli-moab  (1  Esdr.  viii, 
35),  whose  descendants,  together  with  those  of  Jeshua, 
returned  from  the  exile  to  the  number  of  2812  or  2818 
(Ezra  ii,  6;  Neh.  vii,  11),  besides  218  males  subsequent- 
lv  under  the  leadership  of  one  Obadiah  (Ezra  viii,  9). 
B.C.  ante  536. 

Jo'achaz  (’l<im%a£  v.  r.  T i<>\aZ,  and  Tr^ov/ae),  a 
Grsecizcd  form  (1  Esdr.  i,  34)  of  the  name  of  king  Jeho- 
iiaz  (q.  v.). 

To'acllim  (Twava'p),  a Onecized  form  of  the  Heb. 
name  Jeiioiakim,  and  applied  in  the  Apocrypha  to 

1.  The  king  of  Judah,  sou  of  Josiah  (Bar.  i,3). 

2.  A priest  (o  teptvQ,  A.  V.  “high-priest”),  said  to  be 
son  of  Hilkiah  at  the  time  of  the  burning  of  Jerusalem 
by  the  Babylonians  (Bar.  i,  7).  See  Joacim,  4.  As  no 
such  pontiff  occurs  at  this  time  (see  High-priest),  the 
person  intended  may  perhaps  have  been  not  the  suc- 
cessor, but  only  a junior  son  of  Hilkiah — if,  indeed,  the 
whole  narrative  be  not  spurious.  See  Barucii. 

Joachim,  abbot  of  Floris,  was  born  at  Celico,  in 
the  diocese  of  Cosenza,  about  1130.  After  a short  resi- 
dence at  the  court  of  Roger  of  Sicily,  lie  journeyed  to 
Jerusalem,  and  on  his  return  joined  the  Cistercians,  and 
became  abbot  of  Corace  (Curatium),  in  Calabria.  This 
office  he  resigned,  however,  some  time  after,  and  found- 
ed himself  a monastery  at  Floris,  near  Cosenza.  Joa- 
chim died  between  1201  and  1202.  He  enjoyed  great 
reputation  during  his  life:  he  was  reverenced  by  many 
as  a prophet,  and  stood  in  high  consideration  with  popes 
and  princes,  but  since  his  day  he  has  been  very  vari- 
ously judged.  Praised  as  a prophet  by  J.  G.  Sv  Hansens, 
and  defended  by  the  Jesuit  Papebroch,  he  was  accused 
of  heresy  by  Bonaventura,  and  called  a pseudo-prophet 
by  Baronius.  Ilis  partisans  claimed  that  he  worked 
miracles,  but  it  appears  better  proved  that  he  wrote 
prophecies,  and  denounced  in  the  strongest  terms  the 
growing  corruption  of  the  Romish  hierarchy.  He  en- 
deavored to  bring  about  a reformation.  His  character 
has  perhaps  been  best  delineated  by  Neander  (Ch.  Hist. 
iv,  220),  who  says  of  him  : “ Grief  over  the  corruption 
of  the  Church,  longing  desire  for  better  times,  profound 
Christian  feeling,  a meditative  mind,  and  a glowing 
imagination,  such  are  the  peculiar  characteristics  of  his 
spirit  and  his  writings.”  lie  complained  of  the  deifica- 
tion of  the  Roman  Church,  opposed  the  issue  of  indul- 
gences, condemned  the  Crusades  as  antagonistic  to  the 
express  purpose  of  Christ,  who  had  himself  predicted 
only  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem,  decried  the  simonious 
habits  of  the  clergy,  and  even  argued  against  the  be- 
: stowal  of  temporal  power  on  the  pope,  feariug  that  the 


JOACHIM 


922 


JOAN 


contentions  in  his  day  for  temporal  power  might  ulti- 
mately result,  as  they"  eventually  did,  in  the  assumption 
of  “ spiritual  things  which  do  not  belong  to  him.”  Joa- 
chim's doctrines,  however,  are  somewhat  peculiar.  Ilis 
fundamental  argument  is  that  the  Christian  a>ra  closes 
witli  the  year  1261),  when  a new  sera  would  commence 
under  another  dispensation.  Thus  the  three  persons  of 
t lie  Godhead  divided  the  government  of  ages  among 
them : the  reign  of  the  Father  embraced  the  period 
from  the  creation  of  the  world  to  the  coming  of  Christ; 
that  of  the  Son,  the  twelve  centuries  and  a half  ending 
in  1260,  and  then  would  commence  the  reign  of  the 
Iloly  Spirit.  This  change  would  he  marked  by  a prog- 
ress" similar  to  that  which  followed  the  substitution  of 
the  new  for  the  old  dispensation.  Thus  man,  after  hav- 
ing been  carnal  under  the  Father,  half  carnal  and  Half 
spiritual  under  the  Son,  would,  under  the  Holy  Ghost, 
become  exclusively  spiritual.  So  there  have  been  three 
stages  of  development  in  society,  in  which  the  suprem- 
acy belonged  successively  to  warriors,  the  secular  clergy, 
and  monks  (comp.  Neander,  Church  History,  iv,  229  sq.). 
As  Joachim  found  many  adherents,  the  third  Lateran 
Council,  at  the  request  of  Alexander  III,  condemned 
Joachim’s  “ mystical  extravagances Alexander  TV  was 
still  more  severe  in  opposition  to  Joachim ; and  in  12G0 
the  Council  at  Arles  finally  pronounced  all  followers  of 
Joachim  heretics.  Joachim’s  ideas  were  chiefly  present- 
ed in  the  form  of  meditations  on  the  N.  T.  He  strongly 
opposed  the  scholastic  theology,  which  aimed  at  estab- 
lishing the  principles  of  faith  dialectically,  and  also  the 
manner  in  which  Peter  Lombard  explained  the  doctrine 
of  the  Trinity.  Towards  the  middle  of  the  18th  centu- 
ry these  views  had  gained  a large  number  of  adherents. 
Among  the  many  works  attributed  to  Joachim  some  are 
undoubtedly  spurious,  while  others  have  probably  been 
subjected  to  additions,  etc.,  in  consequence  of  his  popu- 
larity (compare  Neander,  iv,  221,  note).  The  Expositio 
super  A poculypsim  (Venice,  1517,  4to,  often  reprinted), 
Conrnrdiw  Veter  is  ac  Xori  Testaments  libri  v (Venice, 
1519,  Mvo),  and  the  Psalterium  decent  Chordarum  appear 
to  be  genuine.  Among  the  others  bearing  hia  name  are 
comm  fntaries  on  Jeremiah,  the  Psalms,  Isaiah,  parts  of 
Nahum,  llabakkuk,  Zcehariah,  and  Malachi ; also  a 
number  of  prophecies  concerning  the  popes,  and  predict- 
ing the  downfall  of  the  papacy.  All  these  were  pub- 
lished at  \ cuice  (1519-1524)  and  Cologne  (1577).  His 
Life  was  written  by  Gregory  di  Lauro  (Naples,  1660, 
4 to).  Among  the  MS.  works  attributed  to  him,  Pro- 
phethr  et  Hr  posit  iones  Sibylla  rum ; Excerptiones  e lihris 
Jotirhiini  dr  Mundi  fine,  de  Terroribus  et  xErumnis,  seu 
de  pseudo-Christ  is ; Prophetic  de  Oneribus  Prorincin- 
rttm ; Epistolir  Joachimi  de  suis  Prophetiis ; and  1‘eve- 
bttinnes,  are  to  he  found  in  the  public  libraries  of  Paris. 
See  libit.  IAtter.de.  la  France,  y ol.  xx;  l)om  Gervaise, 
Il'tshtire  de  Vabbe  Joachim , Tiraboschi,  Storia  della 


. ,„.j.  ..  , — , -i  Kirchenyescli. 

A bhundlunyen  (Erl.  1832). 

Joachim  I am1  II.  See  Information  (German). 

Joachimites.  See  Joachim  of  Flows. 

Jo'acim  another  Gnecized  form  of  the 

I lob.  name  Joachim,  applied  in  the  Apocrypha  to 

1 1’he  son  of  Jonah,  king  of  Judah  (1  Esdr.  i,  37,  38, 

2.  15y  corruption  for  Jeiioiaciun,  the  next  king  of 

Judah  (I  Esdr.  i,  43).  h 

3.  A sou  of  Zcrublmbel,  who  returned  to  Jerusalem 
after  the  exile  ( I Esdr.  v,  5),  apparently  a mistake  for 
Zerul.h-ihel  Inniscif. 

4 " I’lie  high-priest  which  was  in  Jerusalem”  (Judith 
jv,  <>,  U>  in  the  time  of  Judith,  and  who  welcomed  the 
hemme  after  the  death  of  llolofernes,  in  company  with 

the  ancients  of  the  el,  il,  Iren  of  Israel”  (/,  yt  novo  in  rwv 
tutor  IffjKiiyX,  xv,  8 sq.).  The  name  occurs  with  the 


various  reading  Elialcim , but  it  is  impossible  to  identify 
him  Avith  any  historical  character.  No  such  name  oc- 
curs in  the  lists  of  high-priests  in  1 Chron.  vi  (compare 
Josephus,  Ant.  x,  8,  G) ; and  it  is  a mere  arbitrary  con- 
jecture to  suppose  that  Eliakim,  mentioned  in  2 Kings 
xviii,  18,  was  afterwards  raised  to  that  dignity.  Still 
less  can  be  said  for  the  identification  of  Joacim  with 
Ililkiah  (2  Kings  xxii.  4;  Josephus  ’EXuaciac,  Ant.  x, 
4,  2;  Sept.  XeXictac).  The  name  itself  is  appropriate 
to  the  position  which  the  high-priest  occupies  in  the 
story  of  Judith  (“The  Lord  hath  set  up”),  and  the  per- 
son must  be  regarded  as  a necessary  part  of  the  fiction. 
— Smith.  See  Judith. 

5.  The  husband  of  Susanna  (Sus.  1 sq).  The  name 
seems  to  have  been  chosen,  as  in  the  former  case,  with 
a reference  to  its  meaning;  and  it  Avas  probably  for  the 
same  reason  that  the  husband  of  Anna,  the  mother  of 
the  Virgin,  is  called  Joacim  in  early  legends  ( Protev . 
Jac.  i,  etc.). — Smith.  See  Susanna. 

Joada'nus  (’Iwacdroc,  Vulg.  Joadeus),  one  of  the. 
priests,  “ sons  of  Jesus,  the  son  of  Josedec,  and  his  breth- 
ren,” Avho  had  married  foreign  wives  after  the  exile  (1 
Esdr.  ix,  19) ; apparently  the  same  as  Gedaliaij  in  the 
corresponding  IlebrcAV  text  (Ezra  x,  18)  by  a corruption 
(see  Barrington,  Genealoyies,  i,  1G7). 

Jo 'ah  (Heb.  Yoiich',  ny."",  Jehovah  is  his  brother , i. 
e.  helper),  the  name  of  four  men. 

1.  .(Sept.  'I mud  v.  r.  liou3,  Vulg.  Joaha.)  The  third 
son  of  Obed-edom  (q.  a\),  appointed  Avith  bis  brethren 
to  take  charge  of  the  sacred  furniture  (1  Chron.  xxA'i,4). 
B.C.  1014. 

2.  (Sept.  A max  v>  r*  Ta>d/3>  I wag,  Tama  ; but  in  2 
Chron.  first  occurrence  ’1  am  v.  r.  ’lwdaafi,  second  Tam- 
Xa ; Vulg.  Joah .)  A LeA'ite  of  the  family  of  Gershoni, 

( the  son  of  Zimmah  and  father  of  Iddo  (1  Cliron.  vi,  21) ; 
apparently  the  same  elseAvhere  called  Ethan,  and  father 
of  Adaiah  (ver.  42).  He  is  probably  the  same  as  the 
person  Avho,  Avith  his  son  Eden,  aided  Hezekiali  in  his 
elforts  at  a religious  reformation  (2  Chron.  xxix,  12). 
B.C.  72G. 

3.  (Sept.  Tamg,  in  Isa.  ’I tony,  Vulg.  Joahe.)  Son  of 
Asaph  and  historiographer  of  king  Hezekiah,  Avho  Avas 

j one  of  the  messengers  that  received  the  insulting  mes- 
| sage  of  Rabshakeli  (2  Kings  xviii,  18, 2G,  37 ; Isa.  xxxvi, 

1 3,11,22).  B.C.712. 

4.  (Sept.  ’1  ovax  v.  r.  'Tome,  Vulg.  Joha;  Josephus 
Tomri/e,  Ant.  x,  4,  1.)  Son  of  Joaliaz  and  liistoriogra- 

j pher  of  king  Josiali;  he  Avas  one  of  the  officers  that  su- 
! perintended  the  repairs  of  the  Temple  (2  Citron,  xxxn*, 

| 8).  B.C.  G23. 

Jo'ahaz  (Heb.  Yoachaz',  TmX'P,  a contracted  form 
I of  the  name  Jehoaiiaz,  for  which  it  occurs  in  speaking 
, of  others  of  the  same  name;  Sept.  Tomya^Vulg.  Joa- 
chaz),  the  father  of  Joah,  Avliich  latter  Avas  historiogra- 
pher in  the  reign  of  Josiah  (2  Chron.  xxxiv,  8).  B.C. 
ante  G23. 

Joan,  pope(ss),  is  the  name  of  a fictitious  female 
I who  Avas  supposed  to  haAre  occupied  the  chair  of  St.Pe- 
i ter,  as  John  VIII,  betAA’een  the  popes  Leo  IV  and  Bene- 
dict III.  about  853-855.  This  personage  is  first  said  to 
I have  been  spoken  of  as  a Roman  pontiff  by  Marianus 
Scotus.  a monk  of  the  abbey  of  Fulda,  aa  Iio  died  at  Alentz 
in  1086,  and  Avho  says  in  his  chronicle  (AA'hicli  many 
authorities  declare  to  be  spurious),  under  the  year  853, 
the  thirteenth  year  of  the  reign  of  the  emperor  Lotha- 
I rius,  that  Leo  IV  died  on  the  1st  of  August,  and  that  to 
him  succeeded  Joan,  a Avoman,  Avhose  pontificate  lasted 
two  years,  five  months,  and  four  days,  after  Avhich  Ben- 
edict 111  Avas  made  pope.  But  Anastasias,  who  lived  at 
the  time  of  the  supposed  pope  Joan,  and  Avho  Avrote  the 
| lives  of  the  popes  doAvn  to  Nicholas  I,  who  succeeded 
| Benedict  III,  says  that  fifteen  days  after  Leo  IV’s  death 
Benedict  III  succeeded  him.  Further,  Hincmar  of 
Uhcims,  a contemporary,  in  his  tAventy-sixth  letter  to 
i Nicholas  1.  states  that  Benedict  III  succeeded  Leo  IV 
I immediately.  It  is  j roved,  moreover,  by  the  unques- 


JOAN 


923 


JOAN 


tionable  evidence  of  a diploma  still  preserved,  and  of  a 
contemporary  coin  which  Garampi  has  published,  that 
Benedict  III  was  actually  reigning  before  the  death  of 
the  emperor  Lothaire,  which  occurred  towards  the  close 
of  855.  It  is  true  that  some  MS.  copies  of  Anastasius, 
among  others,  one  in  the  king’s  library  at  Paris,  contain 
the  story  of  Joan ; but  this  has  been  ascertained  to  be 
an  interpolation  of  later  copyists,  who  have  inserted  the 
tale  in  the  very  words  of  Martinus  Polonus,  a Cistercian 
monk  and  confessor  to  Gregory  X (latter  part  of  the  12th 
century),  who  wrote  the  Lives  of  the  Popes , in  which, 
after  Leo  IV,  he  places  “John,  an  Englishman,”  and 
then  adds,  “ Hie,  ut  asseritur , foemina  fuit.”  Other  au- 
thorities for  this  story  are  Sigbert  of  Gemblours  (f  1113) 
and  Stephen  de  Bourbon,  who  wrote  about  1225. 

According  to  these  accounts,  she  was  the  daughter  of 
an  English  missionary,  was  born  at  Mayence  or  Ingel- 
heim,  and  was  a woman  of  very  loose  morals.  She  is 
said  to  have  removed  to  Fulda,  and  having  there  estab- 
lished an  improper  intimacy  with  a monk  of  the  con- 
vent, assumed  male  attire,  entered  the  convent,  and 
afterwards  eloped  with  her  paramour,  who  was  a very 
learned  man,  to  Athens,  where  she  applied  herself  to  the 
study  of  Greek  and  the  sciences  under  her  lover’s  able 
directions.  After  the  death  of  her  companion  she  went 
to  Borne,  where  she  became  equally  proficient  in  sacred 
learning,  for  which  her  ^reputation  became  so  great,  un- 
der the  assumed  name  of  Johannes  Anglicanus.  that  she 
easily  obtained  holy  orders,  and  with  such  ability  and 
adroitness  clad  the  deception  that  at  the  death  of  Leo 
she  was  unanimously  elected  as  his  successor,  under  the 
general  belief  of  her  male  sex.  Continuing  to  indulge 
in  sexual  intercourse,  the  fraud  was  finally  discovered, 
to  the  infinite  mortification  of  the  Roman  Church,  by 
her  sudden  delivery  of  an  infant  in  the  public  streets, 
near  the  Colosseum,  while  heading  a religions  procession 
to  the  Latcran  Basilica.  The  mother  and  child  died 
soon  after,  and  were  buried  in  856.  This  event  is  said 
to  have  caused  the  adoption  of  the  Sella  stcrcoraria, 
which  was  in  use  from  the  middle  of  the  11th  century 
to  the  time  of  Leo  X,  for  the  purpose  of  proving  the  sex 
of  the  popes  elect. 

The  story  was  generally  credited  from  the  latter  part 
of  the  11th  until  the  opening  of  the  16th  century.  All 
Church  historians  after  Martinus  generally  copied  it 
from  him,  and  presented  it  as  an  authentic  narrative. 
The  first  to  doubt  the  accuracy  of  the  story  was  Platina 
(1421-1481),  who,  although  repeating  it  in  his  Lives  of 
the  Popes , concludes  with  these  words:  “The  things  I 
have  above  stated  are  current  in  vulgar  reports,  but  are 
taken  from  uncertain  and  obscure  authorities,  and  I have 
inserted  them  briefly  and  simply  not  to  be  taxed  with 
obstinacy.”  Panvinius,  Flatina’s  continuator,  seems  to 
have  been  more  critical : he  subjoins  a very  elaborate 
note,  in  which  he  shows  the  absurdity  of  the  tale,  and 
proves  it  to  have  been  an  invention.  Later  Roman 
Catholic  writers,  seeing  the  arguments  which  their  op- 
ponents in  doctrine  obtained  from  this  story  against  pa- 
pal succession,  took  great  pains  to  impeach  its  accuracy ; 
but  it  is  truly  curious  that  the  best  dissertation  on  the 
subject  is  that  of  David  Blondel,  a Protestant,  who  com- 
pletely refutes  the  story  in  his  Familhr  Ecluircissement 
de  la  question  si  une  Femme  a ete  assise,  an  Siege  Papal 
entre  Leon  IV  et  Benoit  III  (Amsterdam,  1649).  He 
was  followed  on  the  same  side  by  Leibnitz  ( Flores  sparsi 
in  tumulum  Pupissa ?,  in  [Cbr.  L.  Scheidt]  Biblioth.  Hist. 
[Gutting.  1758],  i,  297  sq.),  and, although  attempts  have 
been  made  from  time  to  time  by  a few  writers  to  main- 
tain the  tale  (among  which  one  uf  the  most  noted  was 
a work,  published  in  1785  by  Humphrey  Shuttleworth, 
entitled  A Present  for  a Papist,  or  the  History  of  the 
Life  of  Pope  Joan , proving  that  a Wmnan  called  Joan 
really  teas  Pope  of  Rome),  it  has  been  all  but  universal- 
ly discarded,  its  latest  patron  being  professor  lvist,  of 
Leyden,  who  but  a few  years  since  devoted  an  elaborate 
essay  (Verhandeling  over  de  Paiisin  Joanna ) to  the  sub- 
ject. Nearly  all  ecclesiastical  writers  of  our  day  seem 


to  be  agreed  that  no  feminine  character  ever  filled  the 
papal  chair,  but  there  is  certainly  a variety  of  opinions 
as  to  the  causes  which  provoked  the  story.  Some  at- 
tribute it  to  a misconception  of  the  object  of  the  Sella 
stercoraria ; the  canons  excluded  eunuchs  from  the  pa- 
pal throne,  and  the  sella  stercoraria  was  contrived  to 
prove  that  the  person  elected  fulfilled  the  requirements 
of  the  canons.  Others  consider  it  as  a symbolical  satire. 
Still  others  look  upon  it  as  a lampoon  on  the  inconti- 
nence of  the  pope,  John  VIII;  or,  and  perhaps  more 
correctly,  as  a satire  on  the  female  regiment  (under  Ma- 
rozia)  during  the  popedom  of  John  X-X1I.  See,  for 
further  details,  Gieseler’s  Kirchengeschichte,  vol.  ii,  pt.  i 
(4tli  ed.),  29  sq. ; also  Wensing,  Over  de  Paiisin  Joanna 
—in  reply  to  lvist — (S’Gravenhage,  1845);  Bianchi  Gi- 
ovini’s  Esame  Critico  degli  atti  relativi  alia  Papessa 
Giovunna  (Milan,  1845) ; Bower,  Hist.  Popes,  iv,  246  sq. ; 
Fuhrmann,  Handworterb.  der  Kirchengesch.  ii,  469  sq. ; 
Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.x i,  721  ; Christ.  Examiner,  lxxv, 
197 ; Western  Rev.  April,  1864,  p.  279.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Jean  d’Albp.et.  See  Huguenots;  France. 

Joan  of  Arc  (French  Jeanne  d'Arc),  or  “the  Maid 
of  Orleans,”  is  the  name  of  a character  whose  history 
concerns  not  only  the  secular  historian;  it  deserves  the 
careful  consideration  also  of  the  ecclesiastical  student. 
The  remarkable  fate  of  this  heroine  is  truly  a phenome- 
non in  religious  philosophy.  We  have  room  here,  how- 
ever, only  for  a short  biographical  sketch  of  the  heroine, 
and  refer  the  student  to  Bbttiger,  Weltgesch.  in  Biogra- 
phien,  iv,  474 ; Michelet,  Hist,  de  .France,  vii,  44;  Gorres, 
Jungfrau  v.  Orleans  (Regensb.  1834)  ; Hase,  Xeue  Pro- 
pheten  (Lpz.  1851);  Strass,  Jean  d'Arc  (1862);  Eysell, 
Joh.  d'Arc  (1864);  Locher,  Schlaf  u.  Trdume  (Zurich, 
1853);  and  especially  (mainly  on  her  visions,  etc.)  the 
celebrated  German  theologian  of  Bonn  University,  Dr. 
J.  P.  Lange,  in  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vii,  165  sq. 

Joan  was  the  daughter  of  respectable  peasants,  and 
was  born  in  1412,  in  the  village  of  Domremy,  in  the  de- 
partment of  Vosges,  France.  She  was  taught,  like  other 
young  women  of  her  station  in  that  age,  to  sew  and  to 
spin,  but  not  to  read  and  write.  She  was  distinguished 
from  other  girls  by  her  greater  simplicity,  modesty,  in- 
dustry, and  piety.  When  about  thirteen  years  of  age 
she  believed  that  she  saw  a flash  of  light,  and  heard  ail 
unearthly  voice,  which  enjoined  her  to  be  modest,  and 
to  be  diligent  in  her  religious  duties.  The  impression 
J made  upon  her  excitable  mind  by  tne  national  distresses 
of  the  time  soon  gave  a new  character  to  the  revelations 
which  she  supposed  herself  to  receive,  and  when  fifteen 
years  old  she  imagined  that  unearthly  voices  called  her 
! to  go  and  fight  for  the  Dauphin.  Her  story  was  at  first 
I rejected  as  that  of  an  insane  person ; but  she  not  only 
succeeded  in  making  her  way  to  the  Dauphin,  but  in 
J persuading  him  of  her  heavenly  mission.  She  assumed 
| male  attire  and  Avarlike  equipments,  and,  with  a SAvord 
and  a white  banner,  she  put  herself  at  the  head  of  the 
French  troops,  whom  her  example  and  the  notion  of  her 
i heavenly  mission  inspired  with  new  enthusiasm.  April 
I 29,  1429,  she  threvv  herself,  with  supplies  of  provisions, 

I into  Orleans,  then  closely  besieged  by  the  English,  and 
from  the  4th  to  the  8th  of  May  made  successful  sallies 
[ upon  the  English,  and  finally  compelled  them  to  raise 
the  siege.  After  this  important  victor}’  the  national 
ardor  of  the  French  Avas  rekindled  to  the  utmost,  and 
Joan  became  the  dread  of  the  previously  triumphant 
enemy.  She  conducted  the  Dauphin  to  Rheinis,  where 
he  Avas  crowned,  July  17,  1429,  and  Joan,  vvith  many 
tears,  saluted  him  as  king.  She  now  wished  to  return 
home,  deeming  her  mission  accomplished ; but  Charles 
. importuned  her  to  remain  Avitli  his  army,  to  which  she 
consented.  Noaa’,  however,  because  she  no  longer  heard 
I any  unearthly  voice,  she  began  to  have  fearful  forebod- 
ings. She  continued  to  accompany  the  French  army, 
and  Avas  present  in  many  conflicts.  May  24, 1430,  while 
j heading  a sally  from  Compiegne,  which  the  Burgun- 
| dian  forces  were  besieging,  she  Avas  taken  prisoner,  and 


924 


JO  ASH 


JOAN" 

s„H  by  a Burgundian  officer  to  the  English  for  the  sura  | 
of  16,000  francs.  Being  conveyed  to  Koucn,  the  head-  1 
quarters  of  the  English,  she  was  brought  before  the 
spiritual  tribunal  of  the  bishop  of  Beauvais  as  a sorcer- 
ess  and  heretic;  and  after  a long  trial,  accompanied 
with  many  shameful  circumstances,  of  which  perhaps 
the  most  astounding  is  the  fact  that  her  own  country- 
men, and  the  most  learned  of  these,  representing  the 
University  of  l’aris,  pronounced  her  under  the  influence 
of  witchcraft.  By  their  advice,  she  was  condemned  to 
be  burned  to  death.  Recanting  her  alleged  errors,  her 
punishment  was  commuted  into  perpetual  imprison- 
ment. But  the  English  feared  her,  and  determined  at 
all  hazards  to  sacrifice  her  life,  and  they  finally  succeed- 
ed in  renewing  the  trial ; words  which  fell  from  her 
when  subjected  to  great  indignities,  and  her  resumption 
of  male  attire  when  all  articles  of  female  dress  were 
carefully  removed  from  her,  were  made  grounds  of  con- 
cluding that  she  had  relapsed,  and  she  was  brought  to 
the  stake  May  30,  1431,  and  burned,  and  her  ashes  cast 
into  the  Seine.  Her  family,  who  had  been  ennobled 
on  her  account,  obtained  in  1440  a rcvisal  of  her  trial, 
and  in  1456  she  was  formally  pronounced  by  the  high- 
est ecclesiastical  authorities  to  have  been  innocent.  The 
doubts  respecting  the  fate  of  Joan  d’Arc  raised  by  M. 
Dclapicrre  in  his  Uoute  historique  (ISOS'),  who  is  in- 
clined to  think  that  she  never  suffered  martyrdom,  and 
that  another  person  was  executed  in  her  stead,  seem  to 
have  no  good  ground. — Chambers,  Cyclop,  s.  v. 

Joan  of  Kent  is  the  name  of  a female  character 
who  flourished  in  the  first  half  of  the  16th  century,  and 
who  was  condemned  to  death  as  a heretic,  April  25, 1552, 
for  holding  the  doctrine  that  *•  Christ  was  not  truly  in- 
carnate of  the  Virgin,  whose  flesh,  being  sinful,  he  could 
not  partake  of;  hut  the  Word,  by  the  consent  of  the 
inward  man  in  the  Virgin,  took  flesh  of  her.”  This 
scholastic  nicety  appalled  all  the  grandees  of  the  Eng- 
lish Church,  including  even  Cranmer,  who,  finding  the 
king  slow  to  approve  the  condemnation  of  Joan  of  Kent, 
presented  to  the  sovereign  the  practice  of  the  Jewish 
Church  in  stoning  blasphemers  as  a counterpart  of  the 
duty  of  the  head  of  the  English  Church,  and  secured 
the  king’s  approval  for  the  execution  of  the  poor  woman, 
who  “could  not  reconcile  the  spotless  purity  of  Christ's 
human  nature  with  his  receiving  flesh  from  a sinful 
creature."  Sec  Neal,  Puritans,  i,  49 ; Strvpe,  Memorials 
of  the  Reformation,  ii,  214. 

Joa'nan  (’Imaudv  v.  r.  ’Iwvav),  a Gracized  form  j 
(1  Esdr.  ix,  1)  of  the  name  of  Johanax  (q.  v.),  the  son  I 
of  Eli  ash  ib  (Ezra  x,  6). 

Joanes  (or  J canes),  Vicente,  a celebrated  Span-  ! 
ish  painter  whose,  subjects  arc  exclusively  religious,  was 
born  at  Eucnte  la  lliguera,  in  Valencia,  in  1523.  lie  j 
studied  in  Italy,  and,  as  wc  may  infer  from  his  style, 
chiefly  the  works  of  the  Roman  school,  and  died  Dec. 
21,  1579,  while  engaged  in  finishing  the  altar-piece  of 
the  church  of  Bocaircntc.  His  body  was  removed  to 
Valencia,  and  deposited  in  the  church  of  Santa  Cruz  in 
15s|.  Joanes  was  one  of  the  best  of  the  Spanish  paint- 
ers: he  is  acknowledged  as  the  head  of  the  school  of 
Valencia,  and  is  sometimes  termed  the  Spanish  Raffa- 
elle.  His  drawing  is  correct,  and  displays  many  suc- 
ccssfid  examples  of  foreshortening;  his  draperies  arc 
well  cast,  his  coloring  is  sombre  (lie  was  particularly 
fond  of  mulberry  color),  and  his  expression  is  mostly  in 
perfect  accordance  with  his  subject,  which  is  generally 
devotion  or  impassioned  resignation,  as  in  the  “ Baptism 
of  ( lirist  in  the  cathedral  of  Valencia.  Like  liis  coun- 
trymen ^ argas  and  1)’ Amato  of  Naples,  he  is  said  to 
have,  always  taken  the  sacrament  before  he  commenced 
an  altar-piece.  II  is  best  works  arc  in  the  cathedral  of 
A aleneia,  and  there  are  several  good  specimens  in  the 
I rado  at  Madrid. — English  Cyclopedia,  s.  v. 

Joan'na,  the  name  of  a man  (prop.  Joannas ) and 
also  of  a woman  in  the  New  Testament. 

1.  ( lunu'j'fif,  probably  i.  ’Iuiuvvtjf,  John.)  The 


(great)  grandson  of  Zerubbabel,  in  the  lineage  of  Christ 
(Luke  iii,  27);  probably  the  same  called  Arnan  in  the 
Old  Testament  (1  Cbron.  iii,  21.  See  Strong’s  Harm, 
and  Expos,  of  the  Gospels,  p.  16, 17).  B.C.  considerably 
post  536.  See  Genealogy  of  Christ. 

2.  (’1  wavva,  prob.  femin.  of  ’ImdvvTjg,  John.')  The 
wife  of  Chuza,  the  steward  of  Herod  Antipas,  tetrareh 
of  Galilee  (Luke  viii,  3).  She  was  one  of  those  women 
who  followed  Christ,  and  ministered  to  the  wants  of  him 
and  his  disciples  out  of  their  abundance.  They  had  all 
been  cured  of  grievous  diseases  by  the  Saviour,  or  had 
received  material  benefits  from  him ; and  the  customs 
of  the  country  allowed  them  to  testify  in  this  way  their 
gratitude  and  devotedness  without  reproach.  It  is  usu- 
ally supposed  that  Joanna  was  at  this  time  a widow.  She 
was  one  of  the  females  to  whom  Christ  appeared  after 
his  resurrection  (Luke  xxiv,  10).  A.D.  27-29. — Kitto. 

Joan'nan  (hoavvdv  v.  r.  ’I uidvvqg),  the  eldest 
brother  of  Judas  Maccabaeus  (1  Maec.  ii,  2) ; elsewhere 
i called  John  (q.  v.). 

Joannes.  See  John. 

Jo'arib  (’lu>api/3  v.  r.  ’hoapeift),  a Gnecized  form 
(I  Macc.  ii,  1)  of  the  name  of  the  priest  Jehoiarib  (1 
I Chron.  xxiv,  7). 

Jo'ash  (Heb.  Yoash',  the  name  of  several  persons, 
written  in  two  forms  in  the  original. 

1.  (‘"XT,  a contracted  form  of  Jehoash;  Septuag. 
T (uag.)  The  father  of  Gideon,  buried  in  Ophrah,  where 
he  had  lived  (Jndg.  vi,  11,  29;  vii,  14;  viii,  13,29,32). 
Although  himself  probably  an  idolater,  he  ingeniously 

! screened  his  son  from  the  popular  indignation  in  over- 
throwing the  altar  of  Baal  (Judg.  vi,  30, 31).  B.C.  1362. 
See  Gideon. 

2.  (Same form  as  preceding;  Sept.Twpcic  v.  r. ’Itodg.) 
A son  of  Shemaah  or  llasmaah  the  Gibeathite,  and  sec- 
ond only  to  his  brother  Ahiezer  among  the  brave  Bcn- 

‘ jamite  archers  that  joined  David  at  Ziklag  (L  Chron. 
xii,  3).  B.C.  1055. 

3.  (Same  form  as  preceding ; Sept.  T (oag.)  One  of  the 
descendants  of  Shelah,  son  of  Judah,  mentioned  among 
those  who  were  in  some  way  distinguished  among  the 
.Moabites  in  early  times  (1  Chron.  iv,  22).  B.C.  peril, 
cir.  995.  See  Jasiiubi-lehem.  “ The  Hebrew  tradi- 
tion, quoted  by  Jerome  (Quest.  Ilebr.  in  Parol.)  and 
Jarchi  (Comm,  ad  loc.),  applies  it  to  Mahlon,  the  son  of 
Elimelech,  who  married  a Moabitess.  The  expression 
rendered  in  tlie  A. V., ‘who  had  the  dominion  (1^22) 
in  Moab,’  would,  according  to  this  interpretation,  signify 
‘ who  married  in  Moab.’  The  same  explanation  is  giv- 
en in  the  Targum  of  R.  Joseph”  (Smith). 

4.  (Same  form  as  preceding;  Sept.  ’I mag.)  An  emi- 
nent officer  of  king  Ahab,  to  whose  close  custody  the 
prophet  Micaiah  was  remanded  for  denouncing  the  al- 
lied expedition  against  Ramoth-Gilead  (1  Kings  xxii, 
26 ; 2 Chron.  xviii,  25).  B.C.  896.  He  is  styied  “ the 
king’s  son,”  which  is  usually  taken  literally,  Thenius 
(Comment,  ad  loc.,  in  Kings)  suggesting  that  he  may 
have  been  placed  with  the  governor  of  the  city  for  mili- 
tary education.  Geiger  conjectures  that  Maaseiah,  “ the 
king’s  son,”  in  2 Chron.  xxviii,  7,  was  a prince  of  the  Mo- 
loch worship,  and  that  Joash  was  a priest  of  the  same 
( Urschrift,  p.  307).  The  title,  however,  may  merely  in- 

\ dicate  a youth  of  princely  stock. 

5.  (Same  form  as  preceding:  Sept.  Twag.)  King  of 

j Judah  (2  Kings  xi,  2;  xii,  19,20:  xiii,  1,10;  xiv,  1,3, 
17,23;  1 Chron.  iii,  11 ; 2 Chron.  xxii,  11 ; xxiv,  1 ['2N’1], 
I 2,  4,  22, 24 ; xxv,  23, 25).  See  Jehoash,  1. 

6.  (Same  form  as  preceding;  Sept,  ’lotdg.)  King  of 
Israel  (2  Kings  xiii,  9,  12,  13,  14,  25;  xiv,  1,  23,  27;  2 
Chron.  xxv,  17,  18,  21,  23 ; Hos.  i,  1 ; Amos  i.  1).  See 
Jehoash,  2. 

7.  ('2 21 1,  to  whom  Jehovah  hastens,  i.e.  for  aid;  Sept. 
Toiog.)  One  of  the  “ sons”  of  Becher,  son  of  Benjamin, 
a chieftain  of  his  family  (1  Chron.  vii,  8).  B.C.  prob. 
cir.  1017. 


JOATHAM 


925 


JOB 


8.  (Same  form  as  last ; Septuag.  'iwnfO  The  person 
having  charge  of  the  royal  stores  of  oil  under  David 
and  Solomon  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  28).  B.C.  1014. 

Jo'atham  (Matt,  i,  19).  See  Jotiiam. 

Joazab'dus  (houZafidog  v.  r.  ’ha^aftSog),  a Grie- 
cizcd  form  (1  Esdr.  ix,  48)  of  the  name  of  Jozabad  (q. 
v.),  the  Levite  (Neli.  viii,  7). 

Joasar  (’lw«s«pof,  'Ub^apog,  i.  c.Joezer),  a son  of 
Boetlnis,  ami  brother-in-law  of  the  high-priest  Matthias 
(q.  v.),  whom  he  succeeded  in  the  pontifical  office  by  the 
arbitrary  act  of  Herod  the  Great  on  the  day  preceding 
an  eclipse  of  the  moon  (Josephus,  Ant.  xvii,G,  4),  which 
occurred  March  13,  B.C.  4.  He  was  deprived  of  the  of- 
fice by  Cyrcnius  (although  he  had  aided  that  officer  in 
enforcing  the  tax,  ib.  xviii,  1,1)  in  the  37th  year  after 
the  battle  of  Actium  {ib.  xviii,  2,  1),  i.  c.  A.D.  7-8.  It 
appears,  however,  that  he  hail  been  temporarily  removed 
(A.D.  4)  by  Arclielaus  during  the  short  term  of  his 
brother  Eleazar,  and  then  of  Jesus,  the  son  of  Sie  {ib. 
xvii,  13,  1),  and  restored  by  popular  acclamation  (ib. 
xviii,  2, 1).  See  High-priest. 

Job,  the  name  of  two  persons,  of  different  form  in 
the  original. 

1.  I yob',  persecuted;  Sept,  and  N.  T.  ’Iw/3.) 

An  Arabian  patriarch  and  hero  of  the  book  that  bears 
his  name;  mentioned  elsewhere  only  in  Jlzek.  xiv,  14, 
20;  Jas.  v,  11.  The  various  questions  connected  with 
his  history  are  involved  in  the  discussion  of  the  poem 
itself.  In  the  following  statements  we  largely  avail 
ourselves  of  the  articles  in  Smith’s  Dictionary  of  the 
Bible  and  Ivitto’s  Cydopcedia. 

1.  Analysis  of  Contents. — 1.  The  Introduction  (i,  1-ii, 
10)  supplies  all  the  facts  on  which  the  argument  is 
based.  Job,  a chieftain  in  the  land  of  Uz  (apparently 
a district  of  Northern  Arabia— see  Uz),  of  immense 
wealth  and  high  rank,  is  represented  to  us  as  a man  of 
perfect,  integrity,  and  blameless  in  all  the  relations  of 
life.  The  highest  goodness  and  the  most  perfect  tem- 
poral happiness  are  combined  in  his  person ; under  the 
protection  of  God,  surrounded  by  a numerous  family,  he 
enjoys  in  advanced  life  (from  xlii,  1G  it  has  been  infer- 
red that  he  was  about  seventy  years  old  at  this  time), 
an  almost  paradisiacal  state,  exemplifying  the  normal 
results  of  human  obedience  to  the  will  of  a righteous 
God. 

One  question,  however,  could  be  raised  by  envy : May 
not  the  goodness  which  secures  such  direct  and  tangible 
rewards  be  a refined  form  of  selfishness?  In  the  world 
of  spirits,  where  all  the  mysteries  of  existence  are 
brought  to  light,  Satan,  the  accusing  angel,  suggests 
this  doubt,  and  boldly  asserts  that  if  those  external 
blessings  were  withdrawn  Job  would  cast  off  his  alle- 
giance. The  question  thus  distinctly  propounded  is  ols- 
vionslv  of  infinite  importance,  and  could  only  be  an- 
swered by  inflicting  upon  a man,  in  whom,  while  pros- 
perous, malice  itself  could  detect  no  evil,  the  calamities 
which  are  the  due,  and  were  then  believed  to  be  inva- 
riably the  results,  even  in  this  life,  of  wickedness.  The 
accuser  receives  permission  to  make  the  trial.  He  de- 
stroys Job’s  property,  then  his  children ; and  afterwards, 
to  leave  no  possible  opening  for  a cavil,  is  allowed  to 
inflict  upon  him  the  most  terrible  disease  known  in  the 
East.  8ee  Jon’s  Disease.  Each  of  these  calamities 
assumes  a form  which  produces  an  impression  that  it 
must  be  a visitation  from  God,  precisely  such  as  was  to  be 
expected,  supposing  that  the  patriarch  had  been  a suc- 
cessful hypocrite,  reserved  for  the  day  of  wrath.  Job’s 
wife  breaks  down  entirely  under  the  trial — in  the  very 
words  which  Satan  hail  anticipated  that,  the  patriarch 
himself  would  at  last  utter  in  his  despair,  she  counsels 
him  “ to  curse  God  and  die.”  (The  Sept,  has  a remark- 
able addition  to  her  speech  at  ii,  9,  severely  reproaching 
him  as  the  cause  of  her  bereavements.)  Job  remains 
steadfast.  The  destruction  of  his  property  draws  not 
from  him  a word  of  complaint ; the  death  of  his  children 
elicits  the  sublimest  words  of  resignation  which  ever 


fell  from  the  lips  of  a mourner — the  disease  which  made 
him  an  object  of  loathing  to  man,  and  seemed  to  desig- 
nate him  as  a visible  example  of  divine  wrath,  is  home 
without  a murmur;  he  repels  his  wife’s  suggestion  with 
the  simple  words,  “ What ! shall  we  receive  good  at  the 
hand  of  the  Lord,  and  shall  we  not  receive  evil?”  “ In 
all  this  Job  did  not  sin  with  his  lips.” 

2.  The  Controversy  (ii,  11-xxxi,  40). — Still  it  is  clear 
that,  had  the  poem  ended  here,  many  points  of  deep  in- 
terest would  have  been  left  in  obscurity.  Entire  as  was 
the  submission  of  Job,  he  must  have  been  inwardly 
perplexed  by  events  to  which  he  had  no  clew,  which 
were  quite  unaccountable  on  any  hypothesis  hitherto 
entertained,  and  seemed  repugnant  to  the  ideas  of  jus- 
tice engraven  on  man’s  heart.  It  was  also  most  desira- 
ble that  the  impressions  made  upon  the  generality  of 
men  by  sudden  and  unaccountable  calamities  shoidd 
be  thoroughly  discussed,  and  that  a broader  and  firmer 
basis  than  heretofore  should  be  found  for  speculations 
concerning  the  providential  government  of  the  world. 
An  opportunity  for  such  discussion  is  afforded  in  the 
most  natural  manner  by  the  introduction  of  three  men, 
representing  the  wisdom  and  experience  of  the  age,  who 
came  to  condole  with  Job  on  hearing  of  his  misfortunes. 
Some  time  appears  to  have  elapsed  in  the  interim,  dur- 
ing which  the  disease  had  made  formidable  progress, 
and  Job  had  thoroughly  realized  the  extent  of  his  mis- 
ery. The  meeting  is  described  with  singular  beauty. 
At  a distance  they  greet  him  with  the  wild  demonstra- 
tions of  sympathizing  grief  usual  in  the  East;  eomirg 
near,  they  arc  overpowered  by  the  sight  of  liis  wretch- 
edness, and  sit  seven  days  and  seven  nights  without  ut- 
tering a word  (ii,  11-13).  This  awful  silence,  whether 
Job  felt  it  as  a proof  of  real  sympathy,  or  as  an  indica- 
j tion  of  inward  suspicion  on  their  part,  drew  out  all  his 
I anguish.  In  an  agony  of  desperation  he  curses  the  day 
j of  his  birth,  and  sees  and  hopes  for  no  end  of  his  misery 
| but  death  (ch.  iii). 

i This  causes  a discussion  between  him  and  his  friends 
I (ch.  iv-xxxi),  which  is  divided  into  three  main  parts, 

! each  with  subdivisions,  embracing  alternately  the 
J speeches  of  the  three  friends  of  Job  and  his  answers; 
j the  last  part,  however,  consists  of  only  two  subdivisions, 
j the  third  friend,  Zophar,  having  nothing  to  rejoin ; a 
• silence  by  whieh  the  author  of  the  book  generally  des- 
ignates the  defeat  of  Job’s  friends,  who  are  defending  a 
common  cause.  (It  has,  however,  been  argued  with 
I much  force  by  Weinyss,  that  some  derangement  has  oc- 
j eurred  in  the  order  of  the  composition  ; for  chap,  xxvii, 
j 13-23,  appears  to  contain  Zophar’s  third  address  to  Job, 

! while  ch.  xxviii  seems  to  be  the  conclusion  of  the  whole 
■ book,  containing  the  moral,  added  perhaps  by  some 
j later  hand.)  But  see  below,  § 5. 

I (a.)  The  results  of  the  Jirst  discussion  (chap,  iii-xiv) 

! may  be  thus  summed  up.  We  have  on  the  part  of 
j Job’s  friends  a theory  of  the  divine  government  resting 
j upon  an  exact  and  uniform  correlation  between  sin  and 
) punishment  (iv,  G,  11,  and  throughout).  Afflictions  are 
! always  penal,  issuing  in  the  destruction  of  those  who 
are  radically  opposed  to  God,  or  who  do  not  submit  to 
j his  chastisements.  They  lead,  of  course,  to  correction 
and  amendment  of  life  when  the  sufferer  repents,  con- 
fesses his  sins,  puts  them  away,  and  turns  to  God.  In 
that  ease  restoration  to  peace,  and  even  increased  pros- 
perity, may  be  expected  (v,  17-27).  Still  the  fact  of 
the  suffering  always  proves  the  commission  of  some  spe- 
cial sin,  while  the  demeanor  of  the.  sufferer  indicates  the 
true  internal  relation  between  him  and  God. 

These  principles  are  applied  by  them  to  the  ease  of 
Job.  They  are,  in  the  first  plaee,  scandalized  by  the  ve- 
hemence of  his  complaints,  and  when  they  find  that  he 
maintains  his  freedom  from  wilful  or  eonscious  sin,  they 
are  driven  to  the  conclusion  that  his  faith  is  radically 
unsound ; his  protestations  appear  to  them  almost  blas- 
phemous; they  become  convinced  that  he  has  been  se- 
cretly guilty  of  some  unpardonable  sin,  and  their  tone, 
at  first  courteous,  though  warning  (compare  ch.  iv  with 


JOB 


926 


JOB 


ch.  xv),  becomes  stem,  and  even  harsh  and  menacing. 
It  is  dear  that,  unless  they  are  driven  from  their  partial 
and  exclusive  theory,  they  must  be  led  on  to  an  unqual- 
ified condemnation  of  Job. 

In  this  part  of  the  dialogue  the  character  of  the  three 
friends  is  clearly  developed.  Eliphaz  represents  the 
true  patriarchal  chieftain,  grave  and  dignified,  and  err- 
ing only  from  an  exclusive  adherence  to  tenets  hitherto 
unquestioned,  and  influenced  in  the  first  place  by  genu- 
ine regard  for  Job  and  sympathy  with  his  affliction. 
Bildad,  without  much  originality  or  independence  of 
character,  reposes  partly  on  the  wise  saws  of  antiquity, 
partly  on  the  authority  of  his  older  friend.  Zophar  dif- 
fers fnun  both : lie  seems  to  be  a young  man ; his  lan- 
guage is  violent,  and  at  times  even  coarse  and  offensive 
(see,  especially,  his  second  speech,  ch.  xx).  He  repre- 
sents the  prejudiced  and  narrow-minded  bigots  of  his 
age. 

Iu  order  to  do  justice  to  the  position  and  arguments 
of  Job,  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  direct  object 
of  the  trial  ivas  to  ascertain  whether  he  would  deny  or 
forsake  Hod,  and  that  his  real  integrity  is  asserted  by 
God  himself.  Ilis  answers  throughout  correspond  with 
these  data,  lie  knows  with  a sure  imvard  conviction 
that  he  is  not  an  offender  in  the  sense  of  his  opponents: 
he  is  therefore  confident  that,  whatever  may  be  the  ob- 
ject of  the  alllictions  for  which  he  cannot  account,  God 
knows  that  he  is  innocent.  This  consciousness,  which 
from  the  nature  of  things  cannot  be  tested  by  others, 
enables  him  to  examine  fearlessly  their  position.  He 
denies  the  assertion  that  punishment  follows  surely  on  j 
guilt,  or  proves  its  commission.  Appealing  boldly  to  ■ 
experience,  he  declares  that,  in  point  of  fact,  prosperity  ! 
and  misfortune  are  not  always  or  generally  coramensu-  j 
rat  e ; both  are  often  irrespective  of  man’s  deserts ; “ the  ! 
tabernacles  of  robbers  prosper,  and  they  that  provoke 
God  are  secure”  (xii,  6).  In  the  government  of  I’rovi-  j 
deuce  he  can  see  but  one  point  clearly,  viz.  that  all 
events  and  results  are  absolutely  in  God’s  hand  (xii,  9-  j 
•Jo ).  but  as  for  the  principles  which  underlie  those  events  j 
lie  knows  nothing.  In  fact,  he  is  sure  that  his  friends  ' 
are  equally  uninformed,  and  are  sophists  defending  their 
position,  out  of  mere  prejudice,  by  arguments  and  state- 
ments false  in  themselves  and  doubly  offensive  to  God,  | 
being  hypocritically  advanced  in  his  defence  (xiii,  1-13).  I 
Still  he  doubts  not  that  God  is  just,  and  although  he  ! 
cannot  see  how  or  when  that  justice  can  be  manifested, 
lie  feels  confident  that  his  innocence  must  be  recognised. 
“Though  he  slay  me,  yet  will  1 trust  in  him,  he  also  I 
will  be  my  salvation”  (xiii,  11,  1G).  There  remains, 
then,  but  one  course  open  to  him,  and  that  he  takes. 
He  turns  to  supplication,  implores  God  to  give  him  a 
fair  and  open  trial  (xiii,  lx-28).  Admitting  his  liabil- 
ity to  such  sins  as  are  common  to  man,  being  unclean 
by  birth  (xiii,  26;  xiv,  4),  he  yet  protests  his  substan- 
tial innocence,  and  in  the  bitter  struggle  with  his  mis- 
ery he  first  meets  the  thought  which  is  afterwards  de- 
veloped with  remarkable  distinctness.  Relieving  that 
wuh  dentil  all  hope  connected  with  this  world  ceases, 
lie  prays  that  he  may  be  hidden  in  the  grave  (xiv,  13) 
and  there  reserved  for  the  day  when  God  will  trv  his 
cause  and  manifest  himself  in  love  (verse  15).  ‘This 
prayer  represents  but  a dim,  yet  a profound  and  true 
presentiment,  drawn  forth,  then  evidently  for  the  first 
lime,  as  tile  possible  solution  of  the  dark  problem.  As 
lor  a renewal  of  life  Ju  re,  he  dreams  not  of  it  (verse  14) 
nor  will  he.  allow  that  the  possible  restoration  or  pros- 
perity  of  Ins  descendants  at  all  meets  the  exigencies  of 
Ills  ease  (vor.  Jl,  22). 

(b.)  Ill  the  second  discussion  (ch.  xv-xxi)  there  is  a ! 
more  resolute,  elaborate  attempt  on  the  part  of  Job’s 
rieiids  to  vindicate  their  theory  of  retributive  justice, 
tins  requires  an  entire  overthrow  of  the  position  taken 
Ibey  cannot  admit  his  innocence.  The  fact 
>at  his  calamities  are  unparalleled  proves  to  them  that 

t T 'X  ST°thin-  quUe  unifl“*  in  his  guilt,  Eli- 
1 * . (eh.  x\  ),  who,  as  usual,  lays  down  the  basis  of  the 


I argument,  does  not  now  hesitate  to  impute  to  Job  the 
j worst  crimes  of  which  man  could  be  guilty.  His  de- 
I fence  is  blasphemous,  and  proves  that  he  is  quite  god- 
I less;  that  lie  disregards  the  wisdom  of  age  and  expe- 
rience, denies  the  fundamental  truths  of  religion  (verse 
3-16),  and  by  his  rebellious  struggles  (ver.  25-27)  against 
God  deserves  every  calamity  which  can  befall  him  (ver, 
28-30).  Bildad  (ch.  xviii)  takes  up  this  suggestion  of 
ungodliness,  and,  after  enlarging  upon  the  inevitable 
results  of  all  iniquity,  concludes  that  the  special  evils 
which  had  come  upon  Job,  such  as  agony  of  heart,  ruin 
of  home,  destruction  of  family,  are  peculiarly  the  penal- 
ties due  to  one  who  is  without  God.  Zophar  (ch.  xx) 
draws  the  further  inference  that  a sinner’s  sufferings 
must  needs  be  proportioned  to  his  former  enjoyments 
(ver.  5-14),  and  his  losses  to  his  former  gains  (ver.  15- 
19),  and  thus  not  only  accounts  for  Job’s  present  calam- 
ities, but  menaces  him  with  still  greater  evils  (ver.  20- 
29). 

In  answer,  Job  recognises  the  hand  of  God  in  his  af- 
flictions (xvi,  7-1 G,  and  xix,  6-20),  but  rejects  the  charge 
of  ungodliness;  he  has  never  forsaken  his  Maker,  and 
never  ceased  to  pray.  This,  being  a matter  of  inward 
consciousness,  cannot  of  course  be  proved.  He  appeals 
therefore  directly  to  earth  and  heaven : “ My  witness  is 
in  heaven,  and  my  record  is  on  high”  (xvi,  19).  The 
train  of  thought  thus  suggested  carries  him  much  fur- 
ther in  the  v,*ay  towards  the  great  truth — that  since  iu 
this  life  the  righteous  certainly  are  not  saved  from  evil, 
it  follows  that  their  ways  are  watched  and  their  suffer- 
ings recorded,  with  a view  to  a future  and  perfect  man- 
ifestation of  the  divine  justice.  This  view  becomes 
gradually  brighter  and  more  definite  as  the  controversy 
proceeds  (xvi,  18, 19 ; xvii,  8,  9,  and  perhaps  13-16),  and 
at  last  finds  expression  in  a strong  and  clear  declaration 
of  his  conviction  that  at  the  latter  day  (evidently  that 
day  which  Job  had  expressed  a longing  to  see,  xiv.  12- 
14)  God  will  personally  manifest  himself  as  his  nearest 
kinsman  or  avenger  [see  Goel],  and  that  he,  Job,  al- 
though in  a disembodied  state  (‘'*'-2”,  without  my 
flesh),  should  survive  in  spirit  to  witness  this  posthu- 
mous vindication,  a pledge  of  which  had  already  often 
been  given  him  (■‘IX^  "2*'^) — he,  notwithstanding  the 
destruction  of  his  skin,  i.  e.  the  outward  man,  retaining 
or  recovering  his  personal  identity  (xix,  25-27).  There 
can  be  no  doubt  that  Job  here  virtually  anticipates  the 
final  answer  to  all  difficulties  supplied  by  the  Christian 
revelation. 

On  the  other  hand,  stung  by  the  harsh  and  narrow- 
minded bigotry  of  his  opponents,  Job  draws  out  (chap. 

xxi)  with  terrible  force  the  undeniable  fact  that,  from 
the  beginning  to  the  end  of  their  lives,  ungodly  men, 
avowed  atheists  (ver.  14, 15),  persons,  in  fact,  guilty  of 
the  very  crimes  imputed,  out  of  mere  conjecture,  to 
himself,  frequently  enjoy  great  and  unbroken  prosperity. 
From  this  he  draws  the  inference,  which  he  states  in  a 
very  unguarded  maimer,  and  in  a tone  calculated  to  give 
just  offence,  that  an  impenetrable  veil  hangs  over  the 
temporal  dispensations  of  God. 

(c.)  In  the  third  dialogue  (chap,  xxii-xxxi)  no  real 
progress  is  made  by  Job’s  opponents.  They  will  not 
give  up  and  cannot  defend  their  position.  Eliphaz  (ch. 

xxii)  makes  a last  effort,  and  raises  one  new  point  which 
he  states  with  some  ingenuity.  The  station  in  which 
Job  was  formerly  placed  presented  temptations  to  cer- 
tain crimes;  the  punishments  which  he  undergoes  are 
precisely  such  as  might  be  expected  had  those  crimes 
been  committed;  hence  he  infers  they  actually  were 
committed.  The  tone  of  this  discourse  thoroughly  har- 
monizes with  the  character  of  Elipliaz.  He  could 
scarcely  come  to  a different  conclusion  without  surren- 
dering his  fundamental  principles,  and  he  urges  with 
much  dignity  and  impressiveness  the  exhortations  and 
warnings  which  in  his  opinion  were  needed.  Bildad 
has  nothing  to  add  but  a few  solemn  words  on  the  in- 
comprehensible majesty  of  God  and  the  nothingness  of 


JOB 


027 


JOB 


man.  Zopliar,  the  most  violent  ami  least  rational  of 
the  three,  is  put  to  silence,  and  retires  from  the  contest 
(unless  we  adopt  the  above  suggestion  of  a transposition 
of  the  text). 

In  his  last  two  discourses  Job  does  not  alter  his  posi- 
tion, nor,  properly  speaking,  adduce  any  new  argument, 
but  lie  states  with  incomparable  force  and  eloquence  the 
chief  points  which  he  regards  as  established  (ch.  x\vi). 
All  ereation  is  confounded  by  the  majesty  and  might  of 
God;  man  catches  but  a faint  echo  of  God’s  word,  and 
is  baffled  in  the  attempt  to  comprehend  his  ways.  He 
then  (ch.  xxvii)  describes  even  more  completely  than 
his  opponents  had  done  the  destruction  which,  as  a rule, 
ultimately  falls  upon  the  hypocrite,  and  which  he  cer- 
tainly would  deserve  if  he  were  hypocritically  to  dis- 
guise the  truth  concerning  himself,  and  deny  his  own 
integrity.  He  thus  recognises  what  was  true  in  his  op- 
ponents’ arguments,  and  corrects  his  own  hasty  and  un- 
guarded statements.  Then  follows  (chap,  xxviii)  the 
grand  description  of  Wisdom,  and  the  declaration  that 
human  wisdom  does  not  consist  in  exploring  the  hidden 
and  inscrutable  ways  of  God,  but  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord, 
and  in  turning  away  from  evil.  The  remainder  of  this 
discourse  (ch.  xxix-xxxi)  contains  a singularly  beauti- 
ful description  of  his  former  life,  contrasted  with  his  ac- 
tual misery,  together  with  a full  vindication  of  his  char- 
acter from  all  the  charges  made  or  insinuated  by  his 
opponents. 

Taking  a general  view  of  the  argument  thus  far,  Job’s 
three  friends  may  be  considered  as  asserting  the  follow- 
ing positions : 

(1.)  No  man  being  free  from  sin,  we  need  not  wonder 
that  we  are  liable  to  calamities,  for  which  we  must  ac- 
count by  a reference,  not  to  God,  but  to  ourselves.  From 
the  misery  of  the  distressed,  others  are  enabled  to  infer 
their  guilt ; and  they  must  take  this  view  in  order  to 
vindicate  divine  justiee. 

(2.)  The  distress  of  a man  proves  not  only  that  he  has 
sinned,  but  shows  also  the  degree  and  measure  of  his  sin; 
and  thus,  from  the  extent  of  calamity  sustained,  may 
be  inferred  the  extent  of  sins  committed,  and  from  this 
the  measure  of  impending  misfortune. 

(3.)  A distressed  man  may  recover  his  former  happi- 
ness, and  even  attain  to  greater  fortune  than  he  ever 
enjoyed  before,  if  he  takes  a warning  from  his  afflic- 
tions, repents  of  his  sins,  reforms  his  life,  and  raises  him- 
self to  a higher  degree  of  moral  rectitude.  Impatience 
and  irreverent  expostulation  with  God  serve  but  to  pro- 
long and  increase  punishment;  for,  by  accusing  God  of 
injustice,  a fresh  sin  "is  added  to  former  transgressions. 

(4.)  Though  the  wicked  man  is  capable  of  prosperity, 
still  it  is  never  lasting.  The  most  awful  retribution 
soon  overtakes  him ; and  his  transient  felicity  must  it- 
self be  considered  as  punishment,  since  it  renders  him 
heedless,  and  makes  him  feel  misfortune  more  keenly. 

In  opposition  to  them,  Job  maintains: 

(1.)  The  most  upright  man  may  be  highly  unfortu- 
nate— more  so  than  the  inevitable  faults  and  shortcom- 
ings of  human  nature  would  seem  to  imply.  There  is  a 
savage  cruelty,  deserving  the  severities  of  the  divine 
resentment,  in  inferring  the  guilt  of  a man  from  his  dis- 
tresses. In  distributing  good  and  evil,  God  regards 
neither  merit  nor  guilt,  but  acts  according  to  his  sover- 
eign pleasure.  His  omnipotence  is  apparent  in  every 
part  of  the  creation,  but  liis  justice  cannot  be  seen  in 
the  government  of  the  world;  the  afflictions  of  the 
righteous,  as  well  as  the  prosperity  of  the  wicked,  are 
evidence  against  it.  There  are  innumerable  cases,  and 
Job  considers  his  own  to  be  one  of  them,  in  which  a suf- 
ferer has  a right  to  justify  himself  before  God,  and  to 
appeal  to  some  other  explanation  of  his  decrees.  Of 
this  right  Job  freely  avails  himself,  and  maintains  it 
against  his  friends. 

(2.)  In  a state  of  composure  and  calmer  reflection, 
Job  qualities,  chiefly  in  his  concluding  speech,  some  of 
his  former  rather  extravagant  assertions,  and  says  that, 
although  God  generally  afflicts  the  wicked,  and  blesses 


the  righteous,  still  there  are  exceptions  to  this  rule,  sin- 
gle cases  in  which  the  pious  undergo  severe  trials ; the 
inference,  therefore,  of  a man’s  guilt  from  his  misfor- 
tunes is  by  no  means  warranted.  For  the  exceptions 
established  by  experience  prove  that  God  does  not  al- 
ways distribute  prosperity  and  adversity  after  this  rule, 
but  that  he  sometimes  aets  on  a different  principle,  or 
as  an  absolute  lord,  according  to  his  mere  will  and 
pleasure. 

(3.)  Humbly  to  adore  God  is  our  duty,  even  when  we 
are  subject  to  calamities  not  at  all  deserved;  but  we 
should  abstain  from  harshly  judging  of  those  who,  when 
distressed,  seem  to  send  forth  complaints  against  God. 

3.  Thus  ends  the  discussion,  in  which  it  is  evident 
both  parties  had  partially  failed.  Job  has  been  betray- 
ed into  very  hazardous  statements,  while  his  friends  had 
been  on  the  one  hand  disingenuous,  on  the  other  bigot- 
ed, harsh,  and  pitiless.  The  points  which  had  been 
omitted,  or  imperfectly  developed,  are  now  taken  up  by 
a new  interlocutor  (ch.  xxxii-xxxvii),  who  argues  the 
justice  of  the  divine  administration  both  from  the  na- 
ture of  the  dispensations  allotted  to  man,  and  from  the 
essential  character  of  God  himself.  Elihu,  a young 
man,  descended  from  a collateral  branch  of  the  family 
of  Abraham,  has  listened  in  indignant  silence  to  the  ar- 
guments of  his  elders  (xxxii,  7),  and,  impelled  by  an 
inward  inspiration,  he  now  addresses  himself  to  both 
parties  in  the  discussion,  and  specially  to  Job.  He 
shows,  first,  that  they  had  accused  Job  upon  false  or  in- 
sufficient grounds,  and  failed  to  convict  him,  or  t«  vin- 
dicate God’s  justice.  Job,  again,  had  assumed  his  entire 
innoeence,  and  had  arraigned  that  justice  (xxxiii,  9-11). 
These  errors  he  traces  to  their  both  overlooking  one 
main  object  of  all  suffering.  God  speaks  to  man  by 
chastisement  (ver.  14,  19-22) — warns  him,  teaches  him 
self-knowledge  and  humility  (ver.  16, 17) — and  prepares 
him  (ver.  23)  by  the  mediation  of  a spiritual  interpreter 
(the  angel  Jehovah  of  Genesis)  to  implore  and  to  obtain 
pardon  (ver.  24),  renewal  of  life  (ver.  25),  perfect  access 
and  restoration  (ver.  26).  This  statement  does  not  in- 
volve any  charge  of  special  guilt,  such  as  the  friends 
had  alleged  and  Job  had  repudiated.  Since  the  warn- 
ing and  suffering  are  preventive  as  w'ell  as  remedial, 
the  visitation  anticipates  the  commission  of  sin ; it  saves 
man  from  pride,  and  other  temptations  of  wealth  and 
power,  and  it  effects  the  real  object  of  all  divine  inter- 
positions, the  entire  submission  to  God’s  will.  Again, 
Eliliu  argues  (xxxiv,  10-17)  that  any  charge  of  injus- 
tice, direct  or  implicit,  against  God  involves  a contra- 
diction in  terms.  God  is  the  only  source  of  justiee;  the 
very  idea  of  justiee  is  derived  from  his  governance  of 
the  universe,  the  principle  of  which  is  love.  In  his  ab- 
solute knowledge  God  sees  all  secrets,  and  by  bis  abso*- 
lute  power  he  controls  all  events,  and  that  for  the  one 
end  of  bringing  righteousness  to  light  (verse  21-30). 
Man  has,  of  course,  no  claim  upon  God;  what  he  re- 
ceives is  purely  a matter  of  grace  (xxxv,  6-9).  The 
occasional  appearance  of  unanswered  prayer  (verse  9), 
when  evil  seems  to  get  the  upper  band,  is  owing  merely 
to  the  fact  that  man  pqiys  in  a proud  and  insolent  spirit 
(ver.  12,  13).  Job  may  look  to  his  heart,  and  lie  will 
see  if  that  is  true  of  himself. 

Job  is  silent,  and  Elihu  proceeds  (ch.  xxxvi)  to  show 
that  the  almightiness  of  God  is  not,  as  Job  seems  to  as- 
sert, associated  with  any  contempt  or  neglect  of  his 
creatures.  Job,  by  ignoring  this  truth,  has  been  led 
into  grave  error,  and  terrible  danger  (ver.  12;  comp.  18), 
but  God  is  still  drawing  him,  and  if  lie  yields  and  fol- 
lows he  will  yet  be  delivered.  The  rest  of  the  discourse 
brings  out  forcibly  the  lessons  taught  by  the  manifesta- 
tions of  goodness  as  well  as  greatness  in  creation.  In- 
deed, the  great  object  of  all  natural  phenomena  is  to 
teach  men — “ Who  teacheth  like  him  V”  This  part  dif- 
fers from  Job’s  magnificent  description  of  the  mystery 
and  majesty  of  God’s  works,  inasmuch  as  it  indicates  a 
clearer  recognition  of  a loving  purpose — and  from  the 
address  of  the  Lord  which  follow’s,  by  its  discursive  and 


JOB 


928 


JOB 


argumentative  tone.  The  last  words  are  evidently  spo- 
ken while  a violent  storm  is  coming  on,  in  which  Elilm 
views  the  signs  of  a Thcophany,  such  as  cannot  tail  to 
produce  an  intense  realization  of  the  nothingness  of  man 
before  < iod. 

4.  The  Almighty's  Response.  — l rum  the  preceding 
analysis  it  is  obvious  that  many  weighty  truths  have 
been  developed  in  the  course  of  the  discussion— nearly 
overv  tlicorv  of  the  objects  and  uses  of  suffering  has 
been  reviewed— while  a great  advance  has  been  made 
towards  the  apprehension  of  doctrines  hereafter  to  be 
revealed,  such  as  were  known  only  to  God.  But  the 
mystery  is  not  as  yet  really  cleared  up.  The  position  of 
the  three  original  opponents  is  shown  to  be  untenable — 
the  views  of  Job  himself  to  be  but  imperfect— while  even 
Eliliu  gives  not  the  least  intimation  that  he  recognises 
one  special  object  of  calamity.  In  the  case  of  Job,  as 
we  are  expressly  told,  that  object  was  to  try  his  sincer- 
ity, and  to  demonstrate  that  goodness,  integrity  in  all 
relations,  and  devout  faith  in  God  can  exist  independent 
of  external  circumstances.  This  object  never  occurs  to 
the  mind  of  any  one  of  the  interlocutors,  nor  could  it  be 
proved  without  a revelation.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
exact  amount  of  censure  due  to  Job  for  the  excesses  into 
which  lie  had  been  betrayed,  and  to  his  three  opponents 
for  their  harshness  and  want  of  candor,  could  only  be 
awarded  by  an  omniscient  Judge. 

Accordingly,  from  the  midst  of  the  storm,  Jehovah, 
whom  Job  had  several  times  vehemently  challenged  by 
appeal  to  decide  the  contest,  now  speaks.  In  language 
of  incomparable  grandeur  he  reproves  and  silences  the 
murmurs  of  Job.  God  does  not  condescend,  strictly 
speaking,  to  argue  with  his  creatures.  The  speculative 
questions  discussed  in  the  colloquy  are  unnoticed,  but 
the  declaration  of  God’s  absolute  power  is  illustrated  by 
a marvellously  beautiful  and  comprehensive  survey  of 
the  glory  of  creation,  and  his  all-embracing  providence 
bv  reference  to  the  phenomena  of  the  animal  kingdom, 
lie  who  would  argue  with  the  Lord  must  understand  at 
least  the  objects  for  which  instincts  so  strange  and  man- 
ifold are  given  to  the  beings  far  below  man  in  gifts  and 
powers.  This  declaration  suffices  to  bring  Job  to  a right 
mind : he  confesses  his  inability  to  comprehend,  and 
therefore  to  answer  his  Maker  (xl,  3,  4).  A second  ad- 
dress completes  the  work.  It  proves  that  a charge  of 
injustice  against  God  involves  the  consequence  that  the 
accuser  is  more  competent  than  he  to  rule  the  universe, 
lie  should  then  be  able  to  control,  to  punish,  to  reduce 
all  creatures  to  order — but  he  cannot  even  subdue  the 
monsters  of  the  irrational  creation.  Baffled  by  levia- 
than and  behemoth,  how  can  lie  hold  the  reins  of  gov- 
ernment. how  contend  with  him  who  made  and  rules 
them  all? 

5.  Job's  unreserved  submission  terminates  the  trial 
(eli.  xxxviii  xlii.  There  is  probably  another  transpo- 
sition at  xl,  l 14,  which  belongs  after  xlii,  1-6).  lie 
expresses  deep  contrition,  not,  of  course,  lor  sins  falsely 
imputed  to  him,  but  for  the  bitterness  and  arrogance 
which  had  characterized  some  portion  of  his  complaints, 
lu  flic  rebuke  then  addressed  to  Job’s  opponents  the  in- 
tegrity of  his  character  is  distinctly  recognised,  while 
they  are  condemned  for  untruth,  which,  inasmuch  as  it 
was  not  wilful,  but  proceeded  from  a real  hut  narrow- 
minded conviction  of  the  divine  justice,  is  pardoned  on 
the  intercession  of  Job.  The  restoration  of  his  external 
prosperity,  which  is  an  inevitable  result  of  God’s  per- 
sonal manifestation,  symbolizes  the  ultimate  compensa- 
tion of  the  righteous  for  all  sulFerings  undergone  upon 
earth. 

II.  Design  of  the  Rook. — 1 . From  this  analysis  it  may 
seem  clear  that  certain  views  concerning  the  general 
object  of  the  book  are  partial  or  erroneous,  a.  It  can- 
not be  the  object  of  the.  writer  to  prove  that  there  is  no 
connection  between  guilt  and  sorrow,  or  that  the  old 
orthodox  doctrine  of  retribution  was  radically  unsound. 
Job  himself  recognises  the  general  truth  of  the  doctrine, 
which  is,  in  fact,  confirmed  by  his  ultimate  restoration 


to  happiness,  b.  Nor  is  the  development  of  the  great 
doctrine  of  a future  state  the  primary  object.  It  would 
not,  in  that  case,  have  been  passed  over  in  Job’s  last  dis- 
course, in  the  speech  of  Eliliu,  or  in  the  address  of  the 
Lord  God.  In  fact,  critics  who  hold  that  view  admit 
that  the  doctrine  is  rather  suggested  than  developed, 
and  amounts  to  scarcely  more  than  a hope,  a presenti- 
ment, at  the  most  a subjective  conviction  of  a truth  first 
fully  revealed  by  him  “who  brought  life  and  immortality 
to  light.”  (See  Pareau,  De  Immortalitatis  nods  in  libro 
, Jobi,  Devent.  1807.)  The  cardinal  truth  of  the  immor- 
tality of  the  soul  is,  indeed,  clearly  implied  throughout 
I Job’s  reasoning,  as  it  is  elsewhere  assumed  in  the  O.  T. 

! (comp.  Matt,  xxii,  32)  ; and  this  thought,  in  fact,  con- 
stitutes the  afflicted  patriarch’s  ground  of  consolation 
and  trust,  especially  in  that  sublime  passage  (xix,  25- 
27)  where  he  expresses  his  confidence  in  his  posthumous 
vindication,  which  could  he  of  no  satisfaction  unless  his 
spirit  should  survive  to  witness  it.  Yet  this  belief  is 
i nowhere  carried  out  at  length,  as  would  have  been  the 
j case  had  this  been  the  main  theme  of  the  epopee, 
j Much  less  is  the  later  doctrine  of  the  resurrection  of 
' the  body  contained  in  the  poem.  See  Resurrection. 
c.  On  tlie  doctrine  of  future  retribution,  see  below.  See 
Future  Life;  Immortality. 

2.  It  may  be  granted  that  the  primary  design  of  tlie 
poem  is  that  which  is  distinctly  intimated  in  the  intro- 
duction, and  confirmed  in  the  conclusion,  namely,  to 
show  the  effects  of  calamity  in  its  worst  and  most  awful 
form  upon  a truly  religious  spirit.  Job  is  no  Stoic,  no 
Titan  (Ewald,  p.  26),  struggling  rebelliouslv  against 
God;  no  Prometheus  victim  of  a jealous  and  unrelent- 
ing Deity:  he  is  a suffering  man,  acutely  sensitive  to 
all  impressions  inward  and  outward,  grieved  by  tlie  loss 
of  wealth,  position,  domestic  happiness,  the  respect  of 
his  countrymen,  dependents,  ami  followers,  tortured  by 
a loathsome,  incurable,  and  all  but  unendurable  disease, 
and  stung  to  an  agony  of  grief  and  passion  by  the  in- 
sinuations of  conscious  guilt  and  hypocrisy.  Under 
such  provocation,  being  wholly  without  a clew  to  the 
cause  of  his  misery,  and  hopeless  of  restoration  to  hap- 
piness on  earth,  he  is  shaken  to  the  utmost,  and  driven 
almost  to  desperation.  Still  in  the  centre  of  his  being 
he  remains  firm  and  unmoved — with  an  intense  con- 
sciousness of  his  own  integrity — without  a doubt  as  to 
the  power,  wisdom,  truth,  or  absolute  justice  of  God, 
and  therefore  awaiting  with  longing  expectation  tlie 
final  judgment  which  lie  is  assured  must  come  and  bring 
him  deliverance.  The  representation  of  such  a charac- 
ter, involving  the  discomfiture  of  man’s  great  enemy, 
and  tlie  development  of  the  manifold  problems  which 
such  a spectacle  suggests  to  men  of  imperfect  knowl- 
edge, but  of  thoughtful  and  inquiring  mind,  is  the  more 
direct  object  of  the  writer,  who,  like  all  great  spirits  of 
the  ancient  world,  dealt  less  with  abstract  propositions 
than  with  the  objective  realities  of  existence.  Such  is 
the  impression  naturally  made  by  the  book,  and  which 
is  recognised  more  distinctly  in  proportion  as  the  reader 
grasps  tlie  tenor  of  the  arguments,  and  realizes  the  char- 
acters and  events. 

3.  Still,  beyond  and  beneath  tins  outward  and  occa- 
sional design  there  evidently  lies  a grander  problem, 
which  lias  exercised  the  refiection  of  all  pious  and  con- 
siderate minds,  and  which  we  know  was  vividly  pressed 
upon  the  contemplation  even  of  the  Oriental  saint  of 
early  times  (Psa.  xxxvii).  Hence  the  nearly  unani- 
mous voice  of  critics  and  readers  has  decided  that  tlie 
ultimate  object  of  the  book  is  the  consideration  of  the 
question  how  the  afflictions  of  the  righteous  and  the 
prosperity  of  the  wicked  can  be  consistent  with  God’s 

! justice.  But  it  should  be  observed  that  the  direct  prob- 
lem exclusively  refers  to  the  first  point,  the  second  be- 
ing only  incidentally  discussed  on  occasion  of  the  leading 
j theme.  If  this  is  overlooked,  the  author  would  appear 
to  have  solved  only  one  half  of  his  problem : the  case 
from  which  the  whole  discussion  proceeds  has  reference 
i merely  to  the  leading  problem. 


JOB 


929 


JOB 


There  is  another  fundamental  error  which  has  led 
nearly  all  modern  interpreters  to  a mistaken  idea  of  the 
design  of  this  book.  They  assume  that  the  problem 
could  be  satisfactorily  solved  only  when  the  doctrine  of 
retribution  in  another  life  had  been  first  established, 
which  had  not  been  done  by  the  author  of  the  book  of 
Job : a perfect  solution  of  the  question  was  therefore  not 
to  be  expected  from  him.  Some  assert  that  his  solution 
is  erroneous,  since  retribution,  to  be  expected  in  a future 
world,  is  transferred  by  him  to  this  life ; others  say  that 
he  cut  the  knot  which  he  could  not  unloose,  and  lias 
been  satisfied  to  ask  for  implicit  submission  and  devo- 
tedness, showing  at  the  same  time  that  every  attempt 
at  a solution  must  lead  to  dangerous  positions:  blind 
resignation,  therefore,  was  the  short  meaning  of  the 
lengthened  discussion.  Upon  the  doctrine  of  retribu- 
tion after  death  our  author  does  not  enter;  but  that  he 
knew  it  may  be  inferred  from  several  passages  with 
great  probability;  as,  for  instance,  xiv,  14,  “If  a man 
die,  shall  he  live  again?  All  the  days  of  my  appointed 
time  will  I wait,  till  my  change  come.”  The  if  here 
shows  that  the  writer  had  been  before  engaged  in  con- 
sidering the  subject  of  life  after  death ; and  when  such 
is  the  case,  a pious  mind  will  necessarily  iudulge  the 
hope,  or  will,  at  least,  have  an  obscure  presentiment  of 
immortality.  The  truth  also  of  God’s  undoubted  grace, 
on  which  the  doctrine  of  immortality  is  based,  will  be 
found  clearly  laid  down  in  chap.  xix.  Still  the  author 
does  not  recur  to  this  hope  for  the  purpose  of  solving 
his  problem ; he  did  not  intend  in  his  discussion  to  ex- 
ceed the  limits  of  what  God  had  clearly  revealed,  and 
this  was  in  his  time  confined  to  the  vague  notion  of  life 
continued  after  death,  but  not  connected  with  rewards 
and  punishments.  From  these  considerations  it  appears 
that  those  interpreters  who,  with  Bernstein,  De  Wette, 
and  Umbreit,  assume  that  the  book  of  Job  was  of  a 
sceptical  nature,  and  intended  to  dispute  the  doctrine 
of  retribution  as  laid  down  in  the  other  books  of  the  Old 
Testament,  have  entirely  misunderstood  ir. 

On  nearer  examination,  however,  it  appears  that  the 
doctrine  of  retribution  after  death  is  not  of  itself  alone 
calculated  to  lead  to  a solution  of  the  problem.  The  be- 
lief in  a final  judgment  is  firm  and  rational  only  when 
it  rests  in  the  belief  in  God’s  continued  providential 
government  of  the  world,  and  in  his  acting  as  sovereign 
Lord  in  all  the  events  of  human  life.  Temporary  in- 
justice is  still  injustice,  and  destroys  the  idea  of  a holy 
and  just  God.  A God  who  has  something  to  redress  is 
no  God  at  all.  Even  the  ancient  heathen  perceived 
that  future  awards  would  not  vindicate  incongruities 
in  divine  providence  here  (see  Barth,  Notes  to  Claiulian, 
1078  sq.).  God’s  just  retribution  in  this  world  is  extol- 
led throughout  the  Old  Testament.  The  New  Testa- 
ment holds  out  to  the  righteous  promises  of  a future  life, 
as  well  as  of  the  present;  and  our  Saviour  himself,  in 
setting  forth  the  rewards  of  those  who,  for  his  sake,  for- 
sook everything,  begins  with  this  life  (Matt,  xix,  29). 
A nearer  examination  of  the  benedictions  contained  in 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  (Matt,  v)  shows  that  none  of 
them  exclusively  refer  to  future  blessings;  the  judg- 
ment of  the  wicked  is  in  his  view  proceeding  without 
interruption,  and  therefore  his  examples  of  the  distribu- 
tion of  divine  justice  in  this  world  are  mingled  with 
those  of  requital  in  a future  order  of  things.  The  Gali- 
leans, whose  blood  Pilate  had  mingled  with  their  own 
sacrifices  (Luke  xiii,  1),  were  in  Christ’s  opinion  not  ac- 
cidentally killed ; and  he  threatens  those  who  would  not 
repent  that  they  should  in  like  manner  perish.  That 
sickness  is  to  be  considered  as  a punishment  for  sin  we 
are  clearly  taught  (John  v,  14;  Luke  v,  20,  24):  in  the 
former  passage  it  is  threatened  as  a punishment  for  sins 
committed;  in  the  latter  it  is  healed  in  consequence  of 
pimishment  remitted.  The  passage  in  John  ix,  2,  3, 
which  is  often  appealed  to  in  proof  that  our  Lord  did 
not  consider  siekness  as  a punishment  for  sin,  does  not  | 
prove  this,  but  only  opposes  the  Jewish  position — found-  , 
ed  on  the  mistaken  doctrine  of  retribution — that  all  se-  I 
IV.— N x n 


vere  sicknesses  and  infirmities  were  conseqnences  of 
crimes.  The  solution  of  the  problem  regarding  the  suf- 
ferings of  the  righteous  rests  on  two  positions: 

(1.)  Their  Necessity . — Even  the  comparatively  right- 
eous are  not  without  sin,  which  can  be  eradicated  only 
by  afflictions,  and  he  who  patiently  endures  them  will 
attain  a clearer  insight  into  the  otherwise  obscure  ways 
of  God.  The  trials  of  the  pious  issue  at  once  from  God’s 
i justice  and  love.  To  him  who  entertains  a proper  sense 
of  the  sinfulness  of  man,  no  calamity  appears  so  great  as 
I not  to  be  deserved  as  a punishment,  or  useful  as  a cor- 
rective. 

(2.)  The  Compensations  attending  them. — Calamity,  as 
| the  veiled  grace  of  God,  is  with  the  pious  never  expe- 
rienced alone,  but  manifest  proofs  of  divine  favor  accom- 
i pany  or  follow  it.  Though  sunk  in  misery,  they  still 
' are  happier  than  the  wicked,  and  when  it  has  attained 
its  object  it  is  terminated  by  the  Lord.  The  consola- 
| tions  offered  in  the  Old  Testament  are,  agreeably  to  the 
weaker  judgment  of  its  professors,  derived  chiefly  from 
external  circumstances,  while  in  the  New  Testament 
they  are  mainly  spiritual,  the  ej’e  being,  moreover,  di- 
rected beyond  the  limits  of  this  world, 
j It  is  this  purely  correct  solution  of  the  problem  which 
occurs  in  the  book  of  Job,  It  is  not  set  forth,  however, 
in  any  one  set  of  speeches,  but  is  rather  to  be  gathered 
from  the  concurrent  drift  of  the  entire  discussion.  For, 

[1.]  The  solution  cannot  be  looked  for  in  Job's  speech- 
es, for  God  proves  himself  gracious  towards  him  only 
after  he  has  been  corrected  and  humbled  himself.  Al- 
i though  the  author  of  the  book  does  not  say  (i,  22;  ii, 

| 10;  comp,  xlii,  7)  that  Job  had  charged  God  foolishly, 
and  sinned  with  his  lips,  yet  the  sentiment  calling  for 
I correction  in  his  speeches  is  clearly  pointed  out  to  be 
that  “ he  was  righteous  in  his  own  eyes,  and  justified 
j himself  rather  than  God”  (xxxii,  1,  2).  The  entire  pu- 
rity of  his  character  did  not  prevent  his  falling  into 
misconceptions  and  even  contradictions  on  this  impor- 
tant topic,  which  the  discussion  only  tended  the  more  to 
perplex.  Job  continues  to  be  embarrassed  for  the  solu- 
tion, and  he  is  only  certain  of  this,  that  the  explanation 
of  his  friends  cannot  be  satisfactory.  Job  erred  chiefly 
I in  not  acknowledging  his  need  of  chastisement ; not- 
withstanding his  integrity  and  sincere  piety,  this  pre- 
vented him  from  apprehending  the  object  of  the  calam- 
ity inflicted  on  him,  led  him  to  consider  God’s  dispen- 
sations as  arbitrary,  and  made  him  despair  of  the  return 
of  better  days.  The  greatness  of  his  sufferings  was  in 
some  measure  the  cause  of  his  misconception,  by  excit- 
ing his  feelings,  and  preventing  him  from  calmly  con- 
sidering his  case.  He  was  in  the  state  of  a man  tempt- 
ed, and  deserving  God’s  indulgence.  He  had  received 
considerable  provocation  from  his  friends,  and  often  en- 
deavored to  soften  his  harsh  assertions,  which,  particu- 
larly in  ch.  xxvii,  leads  him  into  such  contradictions  as 
must  have  occurred  in  the  life  of  the  tempted ; he  is 
loud  in  acknowledging  the  wisdom  of  God  (ch.  xxviii), 
and  raises  himself  at  times  to  cheering  hopes  (comp.  ch. 
xix).  But  this  can  only  excuse,  not  justify  him,  and 
therefore  it  is  in  the  highest  degree  honorable  to  him 
that  he  remains  silent  when,  in  Eliliu’s  speeches,  the 
correct  solution  of  the  question  is  suggested,  and  that  he 
ultimately  acknowledges  his  fundamental  error  of  doing 
justice  to  himself  only. 

[2.]  The  solution  of  the  question  mooted  cannot  be 
contained  in  the  speeches  of  Job's  friends.  Their  de- 
meanor is  reproved  by  God,  and  represented  as  a Teal 
sin,  so  mueh  so,  indeed,  that  to  obtain  pardon  for  them 
Job  was  directed  to  offer  a propitiatory  sacrifice.  Their 
error  proceeded  from  a crude  notion  of  sin  in  its  exter- 
nal appearance;  and,  inferring  its  existence  from  calam- 
ity, they  were  thus  led  to  condemn  the  afflicted  Job  as 
guilty  of  heinous  crimes  (eh.  xxxii).  The  moral  use  of 
sufferings  w'as  unknown  to  them,  which  evidently  proved 
that  they  themselves  were  not  yet  purged  and  cleared 
from  guilt.  If  they  had  been  sensible  of  the  nature  of 
man,  if  they  had  understood  themselves , they  would,  on 


930 


JOB 


JOB 

seeing  the  misery  of  Job,  have  exclaimed,  “God  be  1 
merciful  to  us  sinners !”  There  is,  indeed,  an  important 
correct  principle  in  their  speeches,  whose  centre  it  forms, 
so  much  so  that  they  mostly  err  only  in  the  application 
of  the  general  truth.  It  consists  in  the  perception  of 
the  invariable  connection  between  sin  and  misery,  which 
is  indelibly  ingrafted  on  the  heart  of  man,  and  to  which 
many  ancient  authors  allude.  The  problem  of  the  book 
is  then  solved  by  properly  uniting  the  correct  positions 
of  the  speeches’ both  of  Job  and  his  friends,  by  main- 
taining his  innocence  as  to  any  moral  obliquity  (al- 
though cherishing  a view  which  must  have  resulted  in 
spiritual  pride,  had  not  the  Lord  thus  mercifully  exposed 
its  character  before  it  ripened  into  guilt),  and  at  the 
same  time  avoiding  the  idea  that  misfortune  is  neces- 
sarily a punitive  infliction  (being  only  a curse  when  it 
follows  the  violation  of  the  physical  laws  of  the  Creator, 
and  even  then  capable  of  being  overruled  for  the  wel- 
fare of  his  saints),  thus  tracing  the  errors  of  both  par- 
ties to  a common  source,  the  want  of  a sound  insight 
into  the  nature  of  sin.  Job  considers  himself  righteous, 
and  not  deserving  of  such  inflictions,  because  he  was  not 
conscious  of  having  committed  any  crime ; and  his 
friends  fancy  they  must  assume  that  he  was  highly 
criminal,  in  order  to  justify  his  misery. 

[3.]  The  solution  of  the  question  at  issue  is  not  ex- 
clusively given  in  the  addresses  of  God,  which  contain 
only  the  basis  of  the  solution,  not  the  solution  itself.  In 
setting  forth  his  majesty,  and  in  showing  that  imputing 
to  him  injustice  is  repugnant  to  a correct  conception  of 
his  nature,  these  addresses  establish  that  there  must  be 
a solution  which  docs  not  impair  divine  justice.  This 
is  not,  indeed,  the  solution  itself,  but  everything  is  thus 
prepared  for  the  solution.  We  apprehend  that  God 
must  be  just,  but  it  remains  further  to  be  shown  how  he 
can  be  just,  and  still  the  righteous  be  miserable. 

[4.]  Nor  yet  can  wc  justly  regard  the  speech  of  Elihu  \ 
as  affording  altogether  a correct  solution  of  this  main  I 
question;  for,  as  the  preceding  analysis  has  shown,  it 
falls  short  of  the  purpose,  and  the  text  itself  (xxxviii,  j 
2)  expressly  states  its  bewilderment  and  incompetency. 
Nevertheless,  the  position  of  this  in  the  poem,  and  the 
general  agreement  of  its  doctrines  with  the  final  result, 
indicate  that  it  contains,  in  germ  at  least,  the  correct 
solution,  as  far  as  human  sagacity  can  go.  The  leading 
principle  in  Elilni's  statement  is,  that  calamity  in  the 
shape  of  trial  was  inflicted  even  on  the  comparatively  ' 
best  men,  but  that  God  allowed  a favorable  turn  to  take  i 
place  as  soon  as  it  had  attained  its  object.  Now  this  is  j 
the  key  to  the  events  of  Job’s  life.  Though  a pious  I 
and  righteous  man,  he  is  tried  by  severe  afflictions.  lie 
knows  not  for  what  purpose  he  is  smitten,  and  his  ca- 
lamity continues;  but  when  he  learns  it  from  the  ad-  j 
dresses  of  Elihu  and  God,  and  humbles  himself,  he  is  ' 
relieved  from  the  burden  which  oppresses  him,  and  am-  I 
pic  prosperity  atones  for  the  afflictions  he  has  sustained 
(the  last  vestige  of  injustice  on  the  part  of  the  Almighty  j 
in  thus  afflicting  a good  man  at  the  instance  of  Satan,  ■ 
and  for  the  sake  of  the  example  to  future  ages,  disap- 
pearing  with  the  consideration  that  the  subject  of  it 
himself  required  the  severe  lesson  for  his  own  spiritual 
profit ).  Add  to  this  that  the  remaining  portion  of  Eli- 
lui’s  speeches,  in  which  he  points  to  God’s  infinite  maj- 
esty as  including  his  justice,  is  continued  in  the  ad- 
dresses of  God;  that  Elihu  foretells  God’s  appearance; 
that  be  is  not  punished  by  God  as  are  the  friends  of 
dob;  m tine,  that  Job,  by  liis  very  silence,  acknowledges 
the  problem  to  have  been  solved  bv  Elihu;  and  his  si- 
Cncc  is  the  more  significant,  because  Elihu  had  urged 
him  (o  defend  himself  (xxxiii,  32),  ami  because  Job  had 
repeatedly  declared  he  would  “hold  his  peace”  if  it  was 
shown  to  him  wherein  lie  had  erred  (vi,  24,  25;  xix  4).  i 
his  view  of  the  hook  of  Job  has  among  modern  authors  I 
been  supported  chiefly  by  Staudlin  (Beitram  zur  lie - 
ligyms  und  Stttenlehre,  ii,  133)  and  Stickel  (Das  Buck  j 
Lpz"'  though  in  both  it  is  mixed  up  with 

much  erroneous  matter;  and  it  is  further  confirmed  by 


the  whole  Old  Testament  giving  the  same  answer  to 
the  question  mooted  which  the  speeches  of  Elihu  offer: 
in  its  concentrated  form  it  is  presented  in  Psa.  xxxvii, 
xlix,  Ixxiii. 

At  the  same  time,  it  must  be  conceded  that  the  rep- 
rehension of  Elihu’s  speech  by  Jehovah  himself,  as  sa- 
voring of  presumption,  intimates,  as  the  tenor  of  the 
whole  succeeding  portion  of  the  poem  also  implies,  that 
there  are  mysteries  in  divine  providence,  the  full  solu- 
tion of  which,  in  this  life  at  least,  God  does  not  deign 
nor  think  best  to  make  to  his  creatures  who  are  the  sub- 
jects of  them.  The  inscrutability  of  God’s  ways  by  hu- 
man judgment  is  a necessary  inference  from  his  infinity, 
and  the  character  of  this  life  as  a probation  requires  the 
withholding  of  many  of  his  plans  in  order  to  their  prop- 
er disciplinary  effects.  Especially  is  the  saint  required 
to  “walk  by  faith  and  not  by  sight,”  and  the  growth 
and  fullest  exercise  of  this  faith  can  only  occur  under 
such  circumstances  as  those  in  which  Job  was  placed. 
While  it  is  pre-eminently  the  doctrine  of  both  the  Old 
and  the  New  Testament  that  afflictions  are  the  earthly 
lot  of  the  righteous,  it  is  equally  a maxim  under  both 
dispensations  that  the  most  ennobling  motive  for  their 
patient  endurance  is  the  simple  fact  that  they  are  dis- 
pensed by  our  heavenly  Father,  who  alone  fully  knows 
why  they  are  best  for  us.  Could  the  subject  of  them  at 
the  time  perceive  clearly  their  necessity  and  advantage, 
half  their  value  would  be  destroyed ; for  an  assurance 
of  this  he  must  trust  the  known  kindness  and  wisdom 
of  the  Hand  that  smites  him  (Heb.  xii,  1).  It  was  this 
sublime  position,  finally  attained  by  the  tried  patriarch 
(Job  xxiii,  10),  which  gilds  his  character  with  its  most 
sacred  hue.  The  above  is  substantially  the  view  of  the 
moral  design  of  the  book  entertained  by  the  latest  ex- 
positors (e.  g.  Conant,  Delitzsch,  etc.),  although  they 
do  not  bring  out  these  ethical  considerations  with  suffi- 
cient distinctness. 

It  remains  to  consider  the  view  taken  by  Ewald  re- 
specting the  design  of  the  book  of  Job.  He  justly  re- 
jects the  common,  superficial  view  of  its  design,  which 
has  recently  been  revived  and  defended  by  Hirzel  (see 
his  Commentar , Lpzg.  1830),  and  which  represents  the 
author  as  intending  to  show  that  man  cannot  apprehend 
the  plans  of  God,  and  does  best  to  submit  in  ignorance, 
without  repining  at  afflictions.  Nowhere  in  the  whole 
book  is  simple  resignation  crudely  enjoined,  and  no- 
where does  Job  say  that  he  submits  to  such  an  injunc- 
tion. The  prologue  represents  his  sufferings  as  trials, 
and  the  epilogue  declares  that  the  end  had  proved  this; 
consequently  the  author  was  competent  to  give  a the- 
odicy with  reference  to  the  calamity  of  Job  and  if  such 
is  the  case  he  cannot  have  intended  simply  to  recom- 
mend resignation.  The  Biblical  writers,  when  engaged 
on  this  problem,  know  how  to  justify  God  with  refer- 
ence to  the  afflictions  of  the  righteous,  and  have  no  in- 
tention of  evading  the  difficulty  when  they  recommend 
resignation  (see  the  Psalms  quoted  above,  and,  in  the 
New  Testament,  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrew's,  chap.  xii). 
The  view  of  the  book  of  Job  alluded  to  would  isolate  it, 
and  take  it  out  of  its  natural  connection.  Thus  far, 
then,  we  agree  with  Ewald,  but  we  cannot  approve  of 
his  own  view  of  the  design  of  the  book  of  Job.  Accord- 
ing to  his  system,  “calamity  is  never  a punishment  for 
sms  committed,  but  always  a mere  phantom,  an  imag- 
inary show,  above  which  we  must  raise  ourselves  by 
the  consciousness  of  the  eternal  nature  of  the  human 
mind,  to  which,  by  external  prosperity,  nothing  can  be 
added,  and  from  which,  by  external  misfortune,  nothing 
can  be  taken  away.  It  w'as  (says  Ewald)  the  merit  of 
the  book  of  Job  to  have  prepared  these  sounder  views 
of  worldly  evil  and  of  the  immortality  of  mind,  trans- 
mitting them  as  fruitful  buds  to  posterity.”  But  such 
a system  as  this  must  be  abortive  to  console  under 
any  considerable  affliction,  and  is  equally  opposed  to 
the  whole  tenor  of  Scripture,  which,  while  recognising 
the  reality  and  naturalness  of  sorrow,  and  even  allowing 
its  exhibition,  yet  knows  bow  effectually  to  cure  its 


JOB 


931 


JOB 


wounds  by  the  most  substantial  considerations.  Nor  is 
it  in  accordance  with  the  book  itself,  which  nowhere 
impugns  or  mitigates  the  extent  of  Job’s  calamities,  but, 
from  the  high  vantage  ground  of  the  prologue  and  epi- 
logue, impresses  us  with  a more  solemn  insight  into  their 
significance  than  even  Job  was  enabled  to  take,  and 
throughout  the  discussion  (both  on  the  part  of  the  three 
friends — whose  argument  is  based  upon  their  tangibil- 
ity as  evidence  of  the  divine  displeasure,  and  especially 
in  the  key  furnished  by  Elihu — which  exalts  them  to 
the  most  interesting  degree  of  importance  in  the  moral 
discipline  of  the  people  of  God),  admits  and  therefore 
seeks  to  justify  their  pungency.  Their  design  is  as  far 
from  stoicism  as  from  insensibility.  Viewed  in  the  light 
of  the  foregoing  purpose,  this  book  becomes  one  of  the 
most  precious  legacies  to  the  Church — to  which  tribula- 
tion in  this  world  has  been  left  as  a heritage;  and  a 
sublime  exposition  of  some  of  the  most  interesting  prob- 
lems of  religious  experience  in  its  most  highly  developed 
phase. 

III.  Historical  Character  of  the  Work. — On  this  sub- 
ject there  are  three  opinions.  (1.)  Some  contend  that 
the  book  contains  an  entirely  true  history.  (2.)  Others 
assert  that  it  contains  a narrative  entirely  imaginary, 
and  constructed  by  the  author  to  teach  a great  moral 
truth.  (3.)  The  third  opinion  is  that  the  book  is  found- 
ed on  a true  history,  which  has  been  recast,  modified, 
and  enlarged  by  the  author. 

1.  The  first  view,  taken  by  numerous  ancient  inter- 
preters, is  now  abandoned  by  nearly  all  expositors. 
Until  a comparatively  late  time,  the  general  opinion  was 
not  only  that  the  persons  and  events  which  it  describes 
are  real,  but  that  the  very  words  of  the  speakers  were 
actually  recorded.  It  was  supposed  either  that  Job 
himself  employed  the  latter  years  of  his  life  in  writing 
it  (A.  Schultens),  or  that  at  a very  early  age  some  in- 
spired Hebrew  collected  the  facts  and  sayings,  faithfully 
preserved  by  oral  tradition,  and  presented  tliem  to  his 
countrymen  in  their  own  tongue.  Some  such  view 
seems  to  have  been  adopted  by  Josephus,  for  he  places 
Job  in  the  list  of  the  historical  books,  and  it  was  prev- 
alent with  all  the  fathers  of  the  Church.  In  its  sup- 
port several  reasons  are  adduced,  of  which  only  the  first 
and  second  have  any  real  force ; and  even  these  are  out- 
weighed by  other  considerations,  which  render  it  impos- 
sible to  consider  the  book  of  Job  as  an  entirely  true  his- 
tory, but  which  may  be  used  in  defence  of  the  third 
view  alluded  to.  It  is  said.  (1.)  That  Job  is  (Ezek.xiv, 
14-20)  mentioned  as  a public  character,  together  with 
Noah  and  Daniel,  and  represented  as  an  example  of  pi- 
ety. (2.)  In  the  Epistle  of  James  (v,  11),  patience  in 
sufferings  is  recommended  by  a reference  to  Job.  (3.) 
In  the  Greek  translation  of  the  Sept,  a notice  is  append- 
ed to  the  book  of  Job,  evidently  referring  to  Geu.  xxxvi, 
33,  and  stating  that  Job  was  the  king  Jobab  of  Edom. 
It  is  as  follows:  “And  it  is  written  that  he  will  rise 
again  with  those  whom  the  Lord  will  raise  up.  This 
is  translated  out  of  a Syrian  book.  lie  dwelt  indeed  in 
the  land  of  Ausitis,  on  the  confines  of  Idumaea  and  Ara- 
bia. Ilis  first  name  was  Jobab;  and  having  married 
an  Arabian  woman,  he  had  by  lier  a son  whose  name 
was  Ennon.  He  was  himself  a son  of  Zare,  one  of  the 
sons  of  Esau,  and  his  mother’s  name  was  Bosorra;  so 
that  he  was  the  fifth  in  descent  from  Abraham.  And 
these  were  the  kings  who  reigned  in  Edom,  over  which 
country  lie  also  bore  rule.  The  first  was  Balak,  the  son 
of  Beor,  and  the  name  of  his  city  was  Dennaba.  And 
after  Balak,  Jobab,  who  is  called  Job ; and  after  him 
Asom,  who  was  governor  from  the  region  of  Thaiman- 
itis;  and  after  him  Adad,  son  of  Barad,  who  smote  Ma- 
dian  in  the  plain  of  Moab,  and  the  name  of  his  city  was 
Gethaim.  And  the  friends  who  came  to  him  were  Eli— 
phaz  of  the  sons  of  Esau,  the  king  of  the  Tliaimamtes; 
Baldad,  the  sovereign  of  the  Sauchaeans ; and  Sophar, 
the  king  of  the  Miuaians.”  An  account  is  given  at  the 
close  of  the  Arabic  version  so  similar  that  the  one  has 
every  appearance  of  having  been  copied  from  the  other, 


or  of  their  having  had  a common  origin.  Aristseus, 
Philo,  and  Polyliistor  acknowledged  the  account  to  be 
true,  as  did  the  Greek  and  Latin  fathers.  It  is  not  un- 
likely that  the  tradition  is  derived  from  the  Jews.  This 
statement  is  too  late  to  be  relied  on,  and  originates  in 
an  etymological  combination  [see  Jobab]  ; and  that  it 
must  be  erroneous  is  to  a certain  extent  evident  from 
the  contents  of  the  book,  in  which  Job  is  not  represent- 
ed as  a king.  (4.)  In  the  East  numerous  traditions  (see 
D’Herbelot,  s.  v.  Ayoub)  about  the  patriarch  and  his 
family  show  the  deep  impression  made  by  his  character 
and  calamities:  these  traditions  may  possibly  have  been 
derived  from  the  book  itself,  but  it  is  at  least  equally 
probable  that  they  bad  an  independent  origin.  Indeed, 
Job’s  tomb  continues  to  be  shown  to  Oriental  tourists. 
Now  the  fact  of  a Job  having  lived  somewhere  would 
not  of  itself  prove  that  the  hero  of  our  narrative  was 
that  person,  and  that  this  bottle  contained  a purely  his- 
torical account.  Moreover,  his  tomb  is  shown  not  in 
one  place,  but  in  six,  and,  along  with  it,  the  dunghill 
on  which  Job  is  reported  to  have  sat!  (See  Carpzov, 
Inirod.  ii,  33 ; Jahn,  Einleit.  I,  i,  761 ; Micliaelis,  Einleit. 
i,  1 ; Bertholdt,  v,  2040).  (5.)  l)r.  Hales  and  others  have 
even  gone  so  far  as  to  fix  his  exact  year,  by  a calcula- 
tion of  the  constellation  alluded  to  in  ix,  9;  xxxviii,31 ; 
but  the  uncertainty  of  such  a process  is  too  evident  to 
need  consideration,  as  the  very  names  of  the  planets  al- 
luded to  are  doubtful. 

Against  this  view  it  must  be  remarked  generally,  that 
the  whole  work  is  arranged  on  a well-considered  plan, 
proving  the  author’s  power  of  independent  invention; 
that  the  speeches  are,  in  their  general  structure  and  in 
their  details,  so  elaborate  that  they  could  not  have  been 
brought  out  in  the  ordinary  course  of  a conversation  or 
disputation;  that  it  would  be  unnatural  to  suppose  Job 
in  bis  distressed  state  to  have  delivered  such  speeches, 
finished  with  the  utmost  care;  and  that  they  exhibit 
uniformity  in  their  design,  fulness,  propriety,  and  color- 
ing, though  the  author,  with  considerable  skill,  repre- 
sents each  speaker  whom  he  introduces  arguing  accord- 
ing to  his  character.  Moreover,  in  the  prologue  and 
epilogue,  as  well  as  in  the  arrangement  of  the  speeches, 
the  figures  3 and  7 constantly  occur,  with  the  decimal 
number  formed  by  their  addition.  The  transactions  be- 
tween God  and  Satan  in  the  prologue  absolutely  require 
that  we  should  distinguish  between  the  subject-matter 
forming  the  foundation  of  the  work  and  its  enlargement, 
which  can  be  only  done  when  a poetical  principle  is  ac- 
knowledged in  its  composition.  God’s  speaking  out  of 
the  clouds  would  be  a miracle,  without  an  object  corre- 
sponding to  its  magnitude,  and  having  a merely  per- 
sonal reference,  while  all  the  other  miracles  of  the  Old 
Testament  arc  in  connection  with  the  tlieocratical  gov- 
ernment, and  occur  in  the  midst  and  for  the  benefit  of 
the  people  of  God. 

2.  Impelled  by  the  force  of  these  arguments,  many 
critics  have  adopted  the  opinion  either  that  the  whole 
work  is  a moral  or  religious  apologue,  or  that,  upon  a 
substratum  of  a few  ruaimental  facts  preserved  by  tra- 
dition, the  genius  of  an  original  thinker  has  raised  this, 
the  most  remarkable  monument  of  the  Shemitic  mind. 
The  first  indications  of  this  opinion  are  found  in  the 
Talmud  ( Baba  JJathru , xv,  1).  In  a discussion  upon  the 
age  of  this  book,  while  the  Rabbins  in  general  maintain 
its  historical  character,  Samuel  Bar-Nacliman  declares 
his  conviction  “ Job  did  not  exist,  and  was  not  a created 
man,  but  the  work  is  a parable.”  Ilai  Gaon  (Ewald  and 
Duke’s  Beitrdr/e,  iii,  165),  A.D.  1000,  who  is  followed  by 
Jarchi,  altered  this  passage  to  “Job  existed,  and  was 
created  to  become  a parable.”  They  had  evidently  no 
critical  ground  for  the  change,  but  bore  witness  to*  the 
prevalent  tradition  of  the  Hebrews.  Mairaonides  (J/o- 
reh  Xebochim , iii,  22),  with  bis  characteristic  freedom  of 
mind,  considers  it  an  open  question  of  little  or  no  mo- 
ment to  the  real  value  of  the  inspired  book.  Ralbag, 
i.  e.  R.  Levi  Ben-Gershom,  treats  it  as  a philosophic  work. 
A late  Hebrew  commentator,  Simcha  Arieh  (Sclilott- 


JOB 


932 


JOB 


mann,  p.4),  denies  the  historical  truth  of  the  narrative 
„n  the  ground  that  it  is  incredible  that  the  patriarchs 
of  the  chosen  race  should  he  surpassed  in  goodness  by  a 
child  of  Edom.  This  is  worth  noting  hi  corroboration 
of  the  argument  that  such  a fact  was  not  likely  to  have 
been  imputed  by  an  Israelite  of  any  age. 

In  opposition  to  this  view,  the  following  arguments 
may  tie  adduced:  (1.)  It  lias  always  seemed  to  pious 
writers  incompatible  with  any  idea  of  inspiration  to  as- 
sume that  a narrative,  certainly  not  allegorical,  should 
be  a mere  fiction,  and  irreverent  to  suppose  that  the  Al- 
mighty would  be  introduced  as  a speaker  in  an  imagin- 
ary colloquy. 

"(2.)  We  are  led  to  the  same  conclusion  by  the  sound- 
est principles  of  criticism.  ICwald  says  ( Ebd.  p.  1 5)  most 
truly,  "The  invention  of  a history  without  foundation 
hi  facts — the  creation  of  a person,  represented  as  having 
a real  historical  existence,  out  of  the  mere  head  of  the 
poet — is  a notion  so  entirely  alien  to  the  spirit  of  all  an- 
tiquity. that  it  only  began  to  develop  itself  gradually 
in  the  latest  epoch  of  the  literature  of  any  ancient  peo- 
ple, and  in  its  complete  form  belongs  only  to  the  most 
modern  times.”  In  the  canonical  books  there  is  not  a 
trace  of  any  such  invention.  Of  all  people,  the  Hebrews 
were  the  least  likely  to  mingle  the  mere  creations  of 
imagination  with  the  sacred  records  reverenced  as  the 
peculiar  glory  of  their  race. 

It  is  true  that  the  arguments  advanced  by  Ewald  to 
show  the  historical  character  of  the  chief  features  of  the 
book  are  not  entirely  conclusive,  especially  the  literature 
of  the  name  Job,  which  may  have  reference  to  the  char- 
acter he  sustains  in  the  narrative  (from  to  hate, 
q. d.  ‘‘the  assailed,” i. e. tempted;  see  Gesenins,  Theft. Ileb. 
p.  Ki) ; still  they  must  be  allowed  to  have  some  weight, 
and,  taken  in  connection  with  the  general  usage  of  Scrip- 
ture in  its  poetical  and  rhetorical  amplifications,  and  es- 
pecially with  the  considerations  presently  to  be  adduced 
in  relation  to  the  author  of  this  book,  justify  the  pre- 
sumption of  a historical  foundation,  not  only  for  the  facts 
and  personages  represented  in  the  book,  but  also,  to  a 
certain  extent,  for  the  speeches. 

('•'{.)  To  this  it  must  be  added  that  there  is  a singular 
air  of  reality  in  the  whole  narrative,  such  as  must  either 
proceed  naturally  from  a faithful  adherence  to  objective 
truth,  or  be  the  result  of  the  most  consummate  art. 
The  elfect.  is  produced  partly  by  the  thorough  consist-  ! 
oncy  of  all  the  characters,  especially  that  of  Job,  not ! 
merely  as  drawn  in  broad,  strong  outlines,  but  as  devel- 
oped under  a variety  of  most  trying  circumstances; 
partly  also  by  the  minute  and  accurate  account  of  iuci-  ! 
dents  which  in  a fiction  would  probably  have  been  noted  I 
by  an  ancient  writer  in  a vague  ami  general  manner.  ! 
Thus  we  remark  the  mode  in  which  the  supernatural  j 

trial  is  carried  into  execution  by  natural  agencies by 

< 'ball lean  and  Sabscmi  robbers  by  whirlwinds  common 
in  and  peculiar  to  the  desert— by  tire— and,  lastly,  by  the 
elephantiasis  (see  Sehlottmaim,  p.  15;  Ewald, /.c.,*  and  j 
I lc  ngstenberg ),  the  most  formidable  disease  known  in  ! 
the  East.  I lie  disease  was  indeed  one  which  the  In- 
diaus  and  most  Orientals  then  probably  believed  to  be  j 
peculiarly  indicative  of  divine  wrath,  and  would  therefore  I 
lie  naturally  selected  bv  the  writer  (see  the  analysis 
above),  lint  the  symptoms  are  described  so  faithfully 
as  t<>  leave  no  doubt  that  the  writer  must  either  have  I 
introduced  them  with  a view  to  giving  an  air  of  truth-  ! 

I illness  to  bis  work,  or  have  recorded  what  lie  himself 
witnessed  or  received  from  an  exact  tradition.  The 
former  supposition  is  confuted  by  the  fact  that  the  pe- 
culiar symptoms  are  not  described  in  any  one  single 
passage,  so  as  to  attract  the  reader’s  attention,  but  are 
made  out  by  a critical  and  scientific  examination  of 
words  occurring  here  and  there  at  intervals  in  the  com- 
plaints of  the  sufferer.  The  most  refined  art  fails  in 
producing  such  a result;  it  is  rarely  attempted  in  the 
most  artificial  ages,  was  never  dreamed  of  by  ancient 
writers,  ami  must  here  be  regarded  as  a strong  instance 
ot  the  undesigned  coincidences  which  the  soundest  crit- 


icism regards  as  the  best  evidence  of  genuineness  and 
authenticity  in  any  work. 

3.  Luther  first  suggested  the  theory  which,  in  some 
form  or  other,  is  most  generally  received.  In  his  intro- 
duction to  the  first  edition  of  his  translation  of  the  Bi- 
ble be  speaks  of  the  author  as  having  so  treated  the  his- 
torical facts  as  to  demonstrate  the  truth  that  God  alone 
is  righteous ; and  in  the  Tischreden  (ed.  Waleh,  xxii, 
2093)  lie  savs:  “I  look  upon  the  book  of  Job  as  a true 
history,  yet  I do  not  believe  that  all  took  place  just  as 
it  is  written,  but  that  an  ingenious,  pious,  and  learned 
man  brought  it  into  its  present  form.”  This  position 
was  strongly  attacked  by  Bellarmine  and  other  Roman 
theologians,  and  was  afterwards  repudiated  by  most  Lu- 
therans. The  fact  that  Spinoza,  Clericus,  Du  Pin,  and 
Father  Simon  held  nearly  the  same  opinion,  the  first  de- 
nying, and  the  others  notoriously  holding  low  views  of 
the  inspiration  of  Scripture,  had  of  course  a tendency  to 
bring  it  into  disrepute.  J.  D.  Michaelis  first  revived  the 
old  theory  of  Bar-Nachman,  not  upon  critical,  but  dog- 
matic grounds.  In  a mere  history  the  opinions  or  doc- 
trines enounced  by  Job  and  his  friends  could  have  no 
dogmatic  authority:  whereas,  if  the  whole  book  were  a 
pure  inspiration,  the  strongest  arguments  could  be  de- 
duced from  them  on  behalf  of  the  great  truths  of  the 
resurrection  and  a futnre  judgment,  which,  though  im- 
plied in  other  early  books,  arc  nowhere  so  distinctly  in- 
culcated. The  arbitrary  character  of  such  reasoning  is 
obvious.  At  present  no  critic  doubts  that  the  narrative 
rests  on  facts,  although  the  prevalent  opinion  among 
Continental  scholars  is  certainly  that  in  its  form  and 
general  features,  in  its  reasonings  and  representations  of 
character,  the  book  is  a work  of  creative  genius. 

Taking  this  view,  we  must  still  abstain  from  under- 
taking to  determine  what  the  poet  derived  from  tradi- 
tion, and  what  be  added  himself,  since  we  know  not  bow 
far  tradition  had  already  embellished  the  original  fact. 
Thus  much  only  will  it  be  safe  to  conclude : that  the  in- 
dividual really  existed, possibly  in  the  region  indicated; 
that  he  literally  underwent  a trial  substantially  like  that 
represented,  and  that  a discussion  grew  out  of  it,  held, 
perhaps,  between  him  and  a party  of  his  friends  after  its 
first  severity  was  passed,  covering  the  essential  principles 
developed  in  the  book,  but  brietlv  and  simply  expressed. 

IV.  Descent , Country,  and  A ye  of  the  A uthor. — 1.  Opin- 
ions differed  in  ancient  times  as  to  the  nation  to  which 
the  author  belonged,  some  considering  him  to  have  been 
an  Arab,  others  an  Israelite.  Various  indications  favor 
the  latter  supposition:  (1st),  We  find  in  our  book  many 
ideas  of  genuine  Israelitish  growth  : the  creation  of  the 
world  is  described,  in  accordance  with  the  prevailing 
notions  of  the  Israelites,  as  the  immediate  effect  of  di- 
vine omnipotence;  man  is  formed  of  clay;  the  spirit  of 
man  is  God’s  breath;  God  employs  the  angels  fur  the 
performance  of  his  orders ; Satan,  the  great  enemy 
of  the  children  of  God,  is  his  instrument  for  tempting 
them;  men  are  weak  and  sinful;  nobody  is  pure  in  the 
sight  of  God ; moral  corruption  is  propagated.  There 
is  promulgated  to  men  the  law  of  God,  which  they  must 
not  infringe,  and  the  transgressions  of  which  are  visited 
on  offenders  with  punishments.  Moreover,  the  nether 
world,  or  Slieol,  is  depicted  in  hues  entirely  Hebrew.  To 
these  particulars  might,  without  much  trouble,  be  added 
many  more,  but  the  deep-searching  inquirer  will  par- 
ticularly weigh,  (2dly),  the  fact  that  the  hook  displays  a 
strength  and  fervor  of  religions  faith  such  as  could  only 
be  expected  within  the  domain  of  revelation.  Mono- 
theism, if  the  assertions  of  ancient  Arabian  authors  may 
be  trusted,  prevailed,  indeed,  for  a long  period  among  the 
Arabs,  and  it  held  its  ground  at.  least  among  a portion 
of  the  nation  till  the  age  of  Mohammed,  who  obtained 
for  it  a complete  triumph  over  polytheism,  which  was 
spreading  from  Syria.  Still  the  god  of  the  Arabs  was, 
as  those  of  the  heathens  generally  were,  a retired  god, 
dwelling  far  apart,  while  the  people  of  the  Old  Covenant 
enjoyed  the  privilege  of  a vital  communion  with  God; 
and  the  warmth  with  which  our  author  enters  into  this 


JOB 


933 


JOB 


view  incontrovertiblv  proves  that  he  was  an  Israelite. 
(3dly),  As  regards  the  language  of  our  book,  several  an- 
cient writers  asserted  that  it  was  originally  written  in 
the  Aramaean  or  Arabic  tongue,  and  afterwards  trans- 
lated into  Hebrew  by  Moses,  David,  Solomon,  or  some 
unknown  writer.  Of  this  opinion  was  the  author  of  the 
Appendix  in  the  Septuagint.,  and  the  compiler  of  the 
tract  on  Job  added  to  the  works  of  Origen  and  Jerome ; 
in  modem  times  it  has  been  chiefly  defended  by  Span- 
lieim,  in  his  IJistoria  Jobi.  But  for  a translation  there 
is  too  much  propriety  and  precision  in  the  use  of  words 
and  phrases;  the  sentences  are  too  compact,  and  free 
from  redundant  expressions  and  members;  and  too  much 
care  is. bestowed  on  their  harmony  and  easy  flow.  The 
parallelism  also  is  too  accurate  and  perfect  for  a trans- 
lation, and  the  whole  breathes  a freshness  that  could  be 
expected  from  an  original  work  only. 

Sensible  of  the  weight  of  this  argument,  others,  as 
Eiehhorn,  took  a medium  course,  and  assumed  that  the 
author  was  a Hebrew,  though  he  did  not  live  among  his 
countrymen, but  in  Arabia.  “The  earlier  Hebrew  his- 
tory,” the}’  say,  “is  unknown  to  the  author,  who  is  igno- 
rant of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob.  In  portraying  na- 
ture, also,  he  proves  himself  always  familiar  with  Arabia, 
while  he  is  silent  respecting  the  characteristics  of  Pales- 
tine. With  Egypt  he  must  have  been  well  acquainted, 
which  can  be  accounted  for  better  by  supposing  him  to 
have  lived  in  Arabia  than  in  Palestine.”  Ilitzig  and 
Hirzel  accordingly,  among  the  latest  writers,  hold  that 
the  writer  was  an  Egyptian.  Wetzstein  and  Delitzseh 
say  that  he  tvas  a native  of  the  Ilauran.  The  occasional 
use  of  the  name  Jehovah,  however,  appears  to  imply  a 
Later  date  than  the  Exode,  and  the  absence  of  allusion 
to  the  events  of  Jewish  history,  it  has  been  thought, 
may  be  accounted  for  by  the  peculiar  line  of  argument 
(from  natural  religion)  pursued  in  the  book,  as  in  Eccle- 
siastes. It  has  further  been  suggested  that  the  author, 
without  directly  mentioning  the  Pentateuch,  frequently 
alludes  to  portions  of  it,  as  in  iii,  4,  to  Gen.  i,  3 ; in  iv,  19, 
and  xxxiii,  G,  to  Moses’s  account  of  the  creation  of  man  ; 
in  v,  14,  to  Deut.  xxxii,  32 ; in  xxiv,  11,  to  Dent.  xxv,4. 
Moreover,  history  says  nothing  of  the  Israelites  having 
permanently  taken  up  their  residence  in  the  land  of 
Arabia,  so  as  to  allow  the  supposition  of  the  above  or- 
igin of  the  book  of  Job  by  a Hebrew  thus  isolated  from 
Palestine;  nor  will  most  of  the  arguments  adduced  to 
prove  the  acquaintance  (and  therefore  neighborhood)  of 
the  author  with  Egypt  bear  a close  examination.  Thus 
it  is  a mistake  to  suppose  that  the  description  of  the 
working  of  mines  in  ch.  xxviii  must  necessarily  have 
reference  to  Egypt ; Phoenicia,  Arabia,  and  Edom  afford- 
ed much  better  materials.  That  the  author  must  have 
known  the  Egyptian  mausolea  rests  on  an  erroneous  in- 
terpretation of  iii,  14,  which  may  also  be  said  of  the  as- 
sertion that  xxix,  18,  refers  to  the  Egyptian  mythus  of 
the  phoenix.  Casting  aside  these  arbitrarily  assumed 
Egyptian  references,  we  have  only  the  following : Our 
author  knows  the  Egyptian  vessels  of  bulrushes,  ix,  26; 
the  Nile-grass,  viii,  12;  the  Nile-horse  (Behemoth)  and 
the  crocodile  (Leviathan),  xi,  15;  xli,  1.  Now,  as  these 
things  belong  to  the  more  prominent  peculiarities  of  a 
neighboring  country,  they  must  have  been  known  to 
every  educated  Israelite:  the  vessels  of  bulrushes  are 
mentioned  also  in  Isa.  x viii, 2.  Neither  are  we  disposed 
to  adopt  the  compromising  view  of  Stickel.who  assumes 
that  the  author  wrote  his  book  in  the  Israelitish  territory 
indeed,  but  close  to  the  frontier,  in  the  far  south-east  of 
Palestine.  That  the  author  had  there  the  materials  for 
his  descriptions,  comparisons,  and  imager}'  set  better  be- 
fore Ins  eyes  than  anywhere  else,  is  true,  for  there  he 
had  an  opportunity  of  observing  mines,  caravans,  drying 
up  of  brooks,  etc.  But  this  is  not  sufficient  proof  of  the 
author  having  lived  permanently  in  that  remote  part  of 
Palestine,  and  of  having  there  written  his  book : he  was 
not  a mere  copyist  of  nature,  but  a poet  of  considerable 
eminence,  endowed  with  the  pow’er  of  vividly  represent- 
ing things  absent  from  him. 


2.  As  to  the  age  of  the  author  of  this  book,  we  meet 
with  three  opinions:  (a.)  That  he  lived  before  Moses, 
or  was,  at  least,  his  contemporary.  ( b .)  That  he  lived 
in  the  time  of  Solomon,  or  in  the  centuries  next  follow- 
ing— the  opinion  of  Hahn,  Sehlottmann  (Berl.  1857),  and 
Delitzseh.  (c.)  That  he  lived  shortly  before,  or  during, 
or  even  after  the  Babylonian  exile.  Against  this  last 
view  (adopted  by  Le  Clerc  among  earlier  interpreters, 
and  among  modern  expositors  by  Bernstein,  Gesenius, 
Umbreit,  and  De  Wette)  it  is  conclusively  objected,  (I. ) 
That  the  book  is  referred  to  in  the  Old  Testament  itself 
(Ezek.  xiv,  14-20)  as  well  known  before  the  Chaldean 
exile.  Others,  with  less  plausibility,  urge  what  they 
deem  imitations  of  various  sentiments  and  even  pas- 
sages of  Job  in  the  ante-exilian  prophets,  e.  g.  Jer.  xx, 
14,  comp,  with  Job  iii  (see  Kiiper,  Jeremius  hbrorum  sa- 
crorum  interpres  atque  vindex,  p.  164  sq.) ; Lam.  ii,  16, 
comp.  Job  xvi,  13 ; Lam.  iii,  7,  9,  comp.  Job  xix,  8 ; Isa. 
xl.  2,  comp.  Job  i (and  x,  17;  xiv,  14);  Isa,  li,  9,  comp. 
Job  xxvi,  13,  Isa.  xix,  5,  comp.  Job  xiv,  11 ; Psa.  evii, 
42,  comp.  Job  v,  16.  (2.)  The  absence  of  those  Chalda- 

isms  in  Job  which  occur  in  books  written  about  the  time 
of  the  captivity.  (3.)  The  poetical  character  of  the 
book,  which  is  wholly  different  from  the  declining  style 
of  the  later  period. 

The  most  complete  statement  of  the  reasons  in  sup- 
port of  the  opinion  that  the  book  of  Job  was  written 
between  the  age  of  Moses  and  the  Exile  may  be  found 
in  Richter’s  essay,  De  -Etate  Jobi  dejinienda,  reprinted 
in  Bosenmiiller's  edition  of  Lowth’s  Pralectiones  de  Po- 
esi  Sacra  Ihbrceorum,  in  which  he  maintains  that  ic 
was  written  in  the  age  of  Solomon.  Most  of  these  rea- 
sons, indeed,  are  either  not  conclusive  at  all,  or  not  quite 
cogent.  Thus  it  is  an  arbitrary  assumption,  proved  by 
modern  researches  to  be  erroneous,  that  the  art  of  writ- 
ing was  unknown  previous  to  the  age  of  Moses.  The 
assertion,  too,  that  the  marks  of  cultivation  and  refine- 
ment observable  in  our  book  belonged  to  a later  age 
rests  on  no  historical  ground.  Further,  it  cannot  be 
said  that  for  such  an  early  time  the  language  is  too 
smooth  and  neat,  since  in  no  Shemitie  dialect  is  it  pos- 
sible to  trace  a progressive  improvement.  The  evident 
correspondence  also  between  our  book  and  the  Proverbs 
and  Psalms  is  not  a point  proving  with  resistless  force 
that  they  were  all  written  at  the  same  time.  Nor  is 
it  altogether  of  such  a kind  that  the  authors  of  the 
Proverbs  and  Psalms  (comp,  especially  Psa.  xxxix,  13, 
with  Job  vii,  19;  xiv,  6;  x,  20,  21;  vii,  8,  21,  in  the 
Hebrew  Bible),  can  be  exactly  said  to  have  copied  our 
book , but  it  may  be  accounted  for  by  their  all  belong- 
ing to  the  same  class  of  writings,  by  the  very  great  uni- 
formity and  accordance  of  religious  conceptions  and 
sentiments  expressed  in  the  Old  Testament,  and  bv  the 
stability  of  its  religious  character.  The  striking  coin- 
cidence, in  particular,  observable  between  the  eulogy  of 
“wisdom”  contained  in  Job  xxviii  and  the  numerous 
similar  didactic  strains  found  in  the  writings  of  Solo- 
mon (comp,  especially  I’rov.  iii,  iv),  may  be  accounted 
for  by  the  above  supposition  that  this  chapter  was  add- 
ed by  a later  hand  than  the  author  of  the  rest  of  the 
book,  or  at  least  as  a sequel  to  the  traditional  part  of  the 
poem. 

The  traditionary  view  of  the  authorship  of  the  book  of 
Job  ascribes  it  to  Moses:  the  arguments  in  favor  of  this 
view  have  been  collected  by  8panheim,  and  may  be 
seen  with  replies  in  Wemvss  (Life  and  Times  of  Job,  p. 
82  sq.).  The  following  leading  points  are  deserving  of 
consideration  : (1.)  There  is  m the  book  of  Job  no  direct 
reference  to  the  Mosaic  legislation  ; and  its  descriptions 
and  other  statements  are  suited  to  the  period  of  the  pa- 
triarchs: as,  for  instance,  the  great  authority  held  by 
old  men,  the  high  age  of  Job,  and  fathers  offering  sacri- 
fices for  their  families — -which  leads  to  the  supposition 
that  when  our  book  was  written  no  sacerdotal  order  yet 
existed.  Nor  is  this  ignoring  of  all  the  most  interest- 
ing objects  and  associations  of  Judaism  fully  explainable 
on  the  ground  of  the  author  s desire  to  base  the  question 


934 


JOB 


JOB 

at  issue  wholly  on  religious  consciousness  and  experi- 
ence; for  many  of  the  incidents  of  Jewish  and  even  pa- 
triarchal history  were  too  apposite  to  his  topic  to  be 
passed  over  (e.  g.  the  overthrow  of  Pharaoh  and  the  de- 
struction of  the  cities  of  the  plain),  unless  we  suppose  a 
degree  of  studied  impersonation  at  variance  with  the 
naturalness  and  practical  aims  of  Scripture.  (’2.)  The 
language  of  the  book  of  Job  seems  strongly  to  support 
the  opinion  of  its  having  been  written  as  early  as  the 
time  of  .Moses.  It  has  often  been  said  that  no  writing 
of  the  Old  Testament  may  be  more  frequently  illustrated 
from  the  Arabic  than  this  book.  Jerome  observes  (Pro- 
fit. in  Dan.),  “ Jobum  cum  Arabica  lingua  plurimam 
habere  sneietatem;”  and  Schtiltens  proved  this  soincon- 
trovertibly  that  Gcsenius  was  rather  too  late  in  denying 
the  fact  ( see  his  Geschichte  tier  Hebraischen  Sprache,  p. 
33).  Now,  from  this  character  of  its  language  we  might 
be  induced  to  infer  that  the  work  was  written  in  the 
remotest  times,  when  the  separation  of  the  dialects  had 
only  begun,  but  had  not  yet  been  completed.  It  is  true 
that  this  peculiarity  of  idiom  is  not  such  as  to  be  of  it- 
self conclusive  as  to  the  date ; and  it  might  even  have 
been  to  some  extent  assumed  in  order  to  correspond 
with  the  foreign  garb  of  the  poem.  It  also  contains 
some  Aramaisms  and  other  signs  of  degeneracy;  but 
these  (unless  attributable  to  copyists)  may  easily  be  ac- 
counted for  by  the  supposition  of  a later  editorship 
merely.  (3.)  The  Jewish  tradition  of  the  authorship  of 
Moses  (see  ( )tho,  Lex.  Rabbin,  p.  3'23;  comp.  Tobit  ii,  12; 
Enseb.  Prwp.  Ev.  ix,  25),  although  not  entirely  uniform, 
seems  to  have  been  firmly  established  at  an  early  pe- 
riod; and,  lightly  as  it  has  been  treated  by  some  (see 
l)r.  Davidson,  in  the  new  ed.  of  Horne’s  Introd.  ii,  727), 
still  affords  the  only  writer  of  sufficient  note  to  whom 
the  work  has  ever  been  definitely  ascribed.  The  fa- 
cilities enjoyed  by  Moses  during  his  quiet  sojourn  in 
Midian  were  greater  perhaps  than  those  of  any  other 
Hebrew  author  for  such  a production;  and  the  contem- 
plations of  his  active  and  well-stored  mind  may  have 
furnished  as  ample  a motive  for  the  task  as  can  be  found 
at  any  other  period,  or  in  the  case  of  any  other  writer 
to  whom  the  book  has  been  assigned,  even  if  no  special 
outward  occasion  can  be  shown  to  have  led  to  the  liter- 
ary effort  at  that  time.  This  date,  moreover,  is  pre- 
cisely such  as  to  admit  the  incorporation  of  Jewish  the- 
ology without  its  history,  and  affords  a locality  where 
all  the  elements  of  the  poem  were  at  hand.  (4.)  The 
period  in  which  Job  himself  lived  is  a distinct  question 
from  that  of  the  age  in  which  the  book  was  written,  it 
being  only  necessary  (on  the  supposition  of  the  reality  of 
the  narrative)  to  locate  the  author  subsequently  to' the 
times  of  his  hero,  and  under  such  circumstances  as  to 
suggest  the  topic.  The  ante-Mosaic  date  of  Job’s  life 
is  evident  from  his  longevity  (probably  two  centuries 
and  a half,  xliii,  1(5, 17 — where  the  Sept,  expressly  gives 
his  total  age  as  210  years,  assigning,  however,  170  of 
these  as  preceding  his  affliction),  which  seems  to  mark 
him  as  contemporary  with  Peleg,  Reu,  or  Serug  (RCJ. 
2111  2122),  as  well  as  from  the  primitive  character  of 
bis  social  relations,  which  are  similar  to  those  of  Abra- 
ham (RC.  2 1(13-1 9X8).  Ilis  country  could  not  have 
been  far  from  the  Sinaitic  peninsula.  See  Uz.  There 
is  thus  found  to  he  a reasonable  presumption  in  favor  of 
the  Mosaic  authorship  of  this  book,  so  far  as  time  and 
plac  ■ arc  concerned,  while  there  is  no  internal  evidence 
decidedly  opposed  to  the  tradition  in  its  favor.  Our 
conclusion,  as  being  the  most  probable  combination  of 
all  the  lacts  in  the  ease,  is  that,  as  a recitative  poem  in 
a rudimentary  form,  it  was  originally  framed  in  Job’s 
age  (by  that  romance  style  of  composition  spontaneous 
with  Orientals),  and  that,  in  its  Arabic  dress,  it  was 
gathered  by  Moses  from  the  lips  of  the  Midiauitish 
hards  during  his  residence  among  them;  that  it  was 
first  composed  by  him  in  the  Hebrew  language,  hut  not 
reduced  to  ns  present  complete  form  till  considerably 
later,  perhaps  by  Solomon.  This  progressive  kind  of 
authorship  is  vindicated  by  the  fact  that  other  epics 


have  come  down  to  us  through  similar  stages  of  heroic 
legend,  oral  preservation,  collection,  formal  composition, 
and  editorship,  and  is  even  illustrated  in  the  origin  of 
other  less  obscurely  traceable  books  of  the  Bible.  See 
Gexesis.  (5.)  In  defence  of  the  theory  that  the  book 
was  written  during  the  Assyrian  invasion,  B.C.  cir.  700, 
see  the  introduction  to  Merx’s  Buck  Job  (Jena,  1870). 

X.  Integrity  of  the  Book. — It  is  satisfactory  to  find 
that  the  arguments  employed  by  those  who  impugn  the 
authenticity  of  considerable  portions  of  this  book  are, 
for  the  most  part,  mutually  destructive,  and  that  the 
most  minute  and  searching  investigations  bring  out  the 
most  convincing  proofs  of  the  unity  of  its  composition, 
and  the  coherence  of  its  constituent  parts.  One  point 
of  great  importance  is  noted  by  the  latest  and  one  of  che 
most  ingenious  writers  (M.  E.  Renan,  Le  Livre  de  Job, 
Par.  1859)  on  this  subject.  After  some  strong  remarks 
upon  the  inequality  of  the  style,  and  appearance  of  in- 
terpolation, M.  E.  Renan  observes  (p.  xliv) : “ The  He- 
brews, and  Orientals  in  general,  differed  widely  from  us 
in  their  views  about  composition.  Their  works  never 
have  that  perfectly  defined  outline  to  which  we  are  ac- 
customed, and  we  should  be  careful  not  to  assume  inter- 
polations or  alterations  ( retouches ) when  we  meet  with 
defects  of  sequence  which  surprise  us.”  He  then  shows 
that  in  parts  of  the  work,  acknowledged  liy  all  critics 
to  be  by  one  hand,  there  are  very  strong  instances  of 
what  Europeans  might  regard  as  repetition,  or  suspect 
of  interpolation : thus  Elihu  recommences  his  argument 
four  times;  while  discourses  of  Job,  which  have  distinct 
portions,  such  as  to  modern  critics  might  seem  uncon- 
nected and  even  misplaced,  are  impressed  with  such  a 
character  of  sublimity  and  force  as  to  leave  no  doubt 
that  they  are  the  product  of  a single  inspiration.  To 
this  just  and  true  observation  it  must  be  added  that  the 
assumed  want  of  coherence  and  of  logical  consistency  is, 
for  the  most  part,  only  apparent,  and  results  from  a rad- 
ical difference  in  the  mode  of  thinking  and  enunciating 
thought  between  the  old  Eastern  and  modern  European. 

1.  Objections  have  been  made  to  the  introductory  and 
concluding  chapters  (1.)  on  accoimt  of  the  style.  Of 
course  there  is  an  obvious  and  natural  difference  be- 
tween the  prose  of  the  narrative  and  the  highly  poetical 
language  of  the  colloquy.  Yet  the  best  critics  now  ac- 
knowledge that  the  style  of  these  portions  is  quite  as 
antique  in  its  simple  and  severe  grandeur  as  that  of  the 
Pentateuch  itself  (to  which  it  bears  a striking  resem- 
blance : see  above,  and  comp.  Lee,  Job,  p.  49),  or  as  any 
other  part  of  the  book,  while  it  is  as  strikingly  unlike 
the  narrative  style  of  all  the  later  productions  of  the 
Hebrews.  Ewald  says  with  perfect  truth,  “ These  pro- 
saic words  harmonize  thorough  1)'  with  the  old  poem  in 
subject-matter  and  thoughts,  in  coloring  and  in  art ; 
also  in  language,  so  far  as  prose  can  be  like  poetry.” 
(2.)  It  is  said,  again,  that  the  doctrinal  views  are  not  in 
harmony  with  those  of  Job.  This  is  wholly  unfounded. 
The  fundamental  principles  of  the  patriarch,  as  developed 
in  the  most  solemn  of  his  discourses,  are  identical  with 
those  maintained  throughout  the  book.  The  form  of 
worship  belongs  essentially  to  the  early  patriarchal  type; 
with  little  of  ceremonial  ritual,  without  a separate  priest- 
hood, thoroughly  domestic  in  form  and  spirit.  The  rep- 
resentation of  the  angels,  and  tlicir  appellation,  “sons 
of  God,”  peculiar  to  this  book  and  to  Genesis,  accord 
entirely  with  the  intimations  in  the  earliest  documents 
of  the  Shemitic  race.  (3.)  It  is,  moreover,  alleged  that 
there  are  discrepancies  between  the  facts  related  in  the 
introduction,  and  statements  or  allusions  in  the  dialogue. 
Rut  the  apparent  contradiction  between  xix,  17  and 
the  statement  that  all  Job’s  children  had  perished  rests 
upon  a misinterpretation  of  the  words  "233  "23,  “chil- 
dren of  my  womb,”'i.  e.  “of  the  womb  that  bare  me” — 
“ my  brethren,”  not  “ my  children”  (compare  iii,  10) : 
indeed,  the  destruction  of  the  patriarch’s  whole  family 
is  repeatedly  assumed  in  the  dialogue  (e.g.viii.4;  xxix, 
5).  Again,  the  omission  of  all  reference  to  the  defeat 


JOB 


935 


JOB 


of  Satan  in  the  last  chapter  is  quite  in  accordance  with 
the  grand  simplicity  of  the  poem  (Scldottmann,  p.  89, 
40).  It  was  too  obvious  a result  to  need  special  notice, 
and  it  had,  in  fact,  been  accomplished  by  the  steadfast 
faith  of  the  patriarch  even  before  the  discussions  com- 
menced. No  allusion  to  the  agency  of  that  spirit  was 
to  be  expected  in  the  colloquy,  since  Job  and  his  friends 
are  represented  as  wholly  ignorant  of  the  transactions 
in  heaven.  At  present,  indeed,  it  is  generally  acknowl- 
edged that  the  entire  work  would  be  unintelligible  with- 
out these  portions.  (4.)  The  single  objection  (Ilenan, 
p.  40)  which  presents  any  difficulty  on  the  ground  of 
anachronism  is  the  mention  of  the  Olialdaians  in  the  in- 
troductory chapter.  It  is  certain  that  they  first  appear 
in  Hebrew  history  about  the  year  B.O.  770.  But  the 
name  of  Chesed,  the  ancestor  of  the  race,  is  found  in  the 
genealogical  table  in  Genesis  (xxii,22),a  fact  quite  suf- 
ficient to  prove  the  early  existence  of  the  people  as  a 
separate  tribe.  It  is  highly  probable  that  an  ancient 
race  bearing  that  name  in  Kurdistan  (see  Xenoph.  Cyr. 
iii,  1,34;  Anab.  iv,  3,  4;  v,  5, 17)  was  the  original  source 
of  the  nation,  who  were  there  trained  in  predatory  hab- 
its, and  accustomed,  long  before  their  appearance  in 
history,  to  make  excursions  into  the  neighboring  des- 
erts, a view  quite  in  harmony  with  the  part  assigned  to 
them  in  this  book. 

2.  Strong  objections  are  made  to  the  passage  chap, 
xxvii,  from  ver.  7 to  the  end  of  the  chapter.  Here  Job 
describes  the  ultimate  fate  of  the  godless  hypocrite  in 
terms  which  some  critics  hold  to  be  in  direct  contradic- 
tion with  the  whole  tenor  of  his  arguments  in  other  dis- 
courses. Dr.  Kennieott,  whose  opinion  is  adopted  by 
Eichliorn,  Fronde,  and  others,  held  that,  owing  to  some 
confusion  or  omission  in  the  MS.,  the  missing  speech  of 
Zophar  has  been  put  into  the  mouth  of  Job.  The  fact 
of  the  contradiction  is  denied  by  able  writers,  who  have 
shown  that  it  rests  upon  a misapprehension  of  the  pa- 
triarch’s character  and  fundamental  principles.  He  had 
been  provoked  under  circumstances  of  peculiar  aggrava- 
tion into  statements  which  at  the  close  of  the  discussion 
he  would  be  anxious  to  guard  or  recall : he  was  bound, 
having  spoken  so  harshly,  to  recognise,  what,  beyond 
doubt,  he  never  intended  to  deny,  the  general  justice  of 
divine  dispensations  even  in  this  world.  Moreover,  he 
intimates  a belief  or  presentiment  of  a future  retribu- 
tion, of  which  there  are  no  indications  in  any  other 
speaker  (see  ver.  8).  The  whole  chapter  is  thoroughly 
coherent:  the  first  part  is  admitted  by  all  to  belong  to 
Job ; nor  can  the  rest  be  disjoined  from  it  without  inju- 
ry to  the  sense.  Ewald  says,  “Only  a grievous  misun- 
derstanding of  the  whole  book  could  have  misled  the 
modern  critics  who  hold  that  this  passage  is  interpolated 
or  misplaced.”  Other  critics  have  abundantly  vindi- 
cated the  authenticity  of  the  passage  (Ilahn,  Schlott- 
mann,  etc.).  As  for  the  style,  E.  Renan,  a most  com- 
petent authority  in  a matter  of  taste,  declares  that  it  is 
one  of  the  finest  developments  of  the  poem.  It  certain- 
ly differs  exceedingly  in  its  breadth,  loftiness,  and  de- 
vout spirit  from  the  speeches  of  Zophar.  for  whose  si- 
lence satisfactory  reasons  have  already  been  assigned 
(see  the  analysis).  This  last  argument,  however,  ap- 
plies rather  to  chap,  xxviii,  which  may,  without  any 
impeachment  of  the  integrity  of  the  poem,  be  regarded 
as  an  embellishment  representing  the  times  and  senti- 
ments of  the  final  editor  (i.  e.  Solomon). 

3.  The  last  two  chapters  of  the  address  of  the  Al- 
mighty have  been  rejected  as  interpolations  by  main", 
of  course  rationalistic,  writers  (Stuhlman,  Bernstein, 
Eichhold,  Ewald.  Meier),  partly  because  of  an  alleged 
inferiority  of  style,  partly  as  not  having  any  bearing 
upon  the  argument ; but  the  connection  of  reasoning, 
involved,  though,  as  was  to  be  expected,  not  drawn  out, 
in  this  discourse,  has  been  shown  in  the  preceding  anal- 
ysis; and  as  for  the  style,  few  who  have  a true  ear  for 
the  resonant  grandeur  of  ancient  Hebrew  poetry  will  | 
dissent  from  the  judgment  of  E.  Renan,  whose  sugges-  j 
tion,  that  it  may  have  been  written  by  the  same  author  i 


at  a later  date,  is  far  from  weakening  the  force  of  his 
observation  as  to  the  identity  of  the  style. 

4.  The  speech  of  Elihu  presents  greater  difficulties, 
and  has  been  rejected  by  several  rationalists,  whose 
opinion,  however,  is  controverted  not  only  by  orthodox 
writers,  but  by  some  of  the  most  sceptical  commenta- 
tors. The  former  support  their  decision  on  the  appar- 
ent, and,  to  a certain  extent,  the  real  difference  between 
this  and  other  parts  of  the  book  in  tone  of  thought,  in 
J doctrinal  views,  and,  more  positively,  in  language  and 
general  style.  Much  stress  also  is  laid  upon  the  facts 
! that  Elihu  is  not  mentioned  in  the  introduction  nor  at 
the  end,  and  that  his  speech  is  unanswered  by  Job,  and 
unnoticed  in  the  final  address  of  the  Almighty.  These 
points  were  observed  by  very  early  writers,  and  were 
accounted  for  in  various  ways.  On  the  one  hand, Elihu 
was  regarded  as  a specially  inspired  person  (Schlott- 
maun,  p.  58).  • In  the  Seder  Olam  (a  rabbinical  system 
of  chronology)  he  is  reckoned  among  the  prophets  who 
declared  the  will  of  God  to  the  Gentiles  before  the  prom- 
ulgation of  the  law.  S.  Bar-Nachman  (12th  century) 
j notes  his  connection  with  the  family  of  Abraham  as  a 
! sign  that  he  was  the  fittest  person  to  expound  the  ways 
j of  God.  The  Greek  fathers  generally  follow  Chrvsos- 
! tom  in  attributing  to  him  a superior  intellect,  while 
l many  of  the  best  critics  of  the  last  two  centuries  eon- 
j sider  that  the  true  dialectic  solution  of  the  great  prob- 
lems  discussed  in  the  book  is  to  be  found  in  his  dis- 
course. On  the  other  hand,  Jerome,  who  is  followed  by 
Gregory,  and  many  ancient  as  well  as  modem  writers 
| of  the  Western  Church,  speak  of  his  character  and  argu- 
j ments  with  singular  contempt.  Later  critics,  chiefiy 
; rationalists,  see  in  him  but  an  empty  babbler,  introduced 
j only  to  heighten  by  contrast  the  effect  of  the  last  solemn 
I and  dignified  discourse  of  Job.  The  alternative  of  re- 
jecting his  speech  as  an  interpolation  was  scarcely  less 
objectionable,  and  has  been  preferred  by  Stuhlman,  Bern- 
stein, Ewald,  Renan,  and  other  writers  of  similar  opin- 
ions in  other  countries.  A candid  and  searching  exam- 
ination, however,  leads  to  a different  conclusion.  It  is 
proved  (see  Schlottman,  Einl.  p.  55)  that  there  is  a close 
internal  connection  between  this  and  other  parts  of  the 
book.  There  are  references  to  numerous  passages  in  the 
1 discourses  of  Job  and  his  friends,  so  covert  as  only  to  be 
1 discovered  by  close  inquiry,  yet,  when  pointed  out,  so 
striking  and  natural  as  to  leave  no  room  for  doubt. 
, Elihu  supplies  exactly  what  Job  repeatedly  demands — 
a confutation  of  his  opinions,  not  merely  produced  by  an 
overwhelming  display  of  divine  power,  but  by  rational 
and  human  arguments,  and  proceeding  from  one  not, 
like  his  other  opponents,  bigoted  and  hypocritical,  but 
upright,  candid,  and  truthful  (comp,  xxxiii,  3,  with  vi, 
24, 25).  The  reasonings  of  Elihu  are  moreover  such  as 
J are  needed  for  the  development  of  the  doctrines  incul- 
] cated  in  the  book,  while  they  are  necessarily  cast  in  a 
i form  which  could  not  without  irreverence  be  assigned 
j to  the  Almighty.  As  to  the  objection  that  the  doc- 
J trinal  system  of  Elihu  is  in  some  points  more  advanced 
l than  that  of  Job  or  his  friends,  it  may  be  answered,  first, 
that  there  are  no  traces  in  this  discourse  of  certain  doc- 
I trines  which  were  undoubtedly  known  at  the  earliest 
j date  to  which  those  critics  would  assign  the  interpola- 
tion, whereas  it  is  evident  that  if  known  they  would 
have  been  adduced  as  the  very  strongest  arguments  for 
a warning  and  consolation.  No  reader  of  the  Psalms  and 
of  the  Prophets  could  have  failed  to  urge  such  topics  as 
the  resurrection,  the  future  judgment,  and  the  personal 
advent  of  Messiah.  Secondly,  the  doctrinal  system  of 
Elihu  differs  rather  in  degree  than  in  kind  from  that 
which  has  been  either  developed  or  intimated  in  several 
passages  of  the  work,  and  consists  chiefly  in  a specific 
application  of  the  mediatorial  theory,  not  unknown  to 
Job,  and  in  a deeper  appreciation  of  the  love  manifested 
in  all  providential  dispensations.  It  is  quite  consistent 
with  the  plan  of  the  writer,  and  with  the  admirable  skill 
shown  m the  arrangement  of  the  whole  work,  that  the 
highest  view  as  to  the  object  of  afflictions,  and  to  the 


936 


JOB 


JOB 

source  to  which  men  should  apply  for  comfort  and  in-  Rupert,  In  Jobum  (in  Opp.  i,  1034) ; Peter  of  Blois,  Con- 
struction, should  he  reserved  for  this,  which,  so  far  as  re-  pendium  (in  Opp.nl  19)  ( Aquinas,  Commentarii (in  Opp. 


gards  the  human  reasoners,  is  the  culminating  point  of  i;  also  Yen.  1505,  fol.;  Rom.  1562,  4to)  •,  Banolas  (i.  e. 
the  discussion.  Little  can  be  said  for  Lightfoot’s  theory  Ralbag),  'jllS  (Ferrara,  1477,  4to ; with  various  super- 


eonsetons  impression  n a . u v - (Argeut>  et  Basi].  1526,  8v0),  Luce?,  Cammed 

est  exponent  of  t te  ru  l.  is  < . (aria  (Argent.  1528  folio);  CEcolampadius,  Exegemata 

tlu,  two  of  the  most  impartial  ami  d.«*n  ng entto  ' 163^, fo).,  ^ 153^ 4to . Genev.  1532, 1553, 1578, 

(KwaU  an,  lfonan)  wl.o  unite  ...  tlenv  n«  a . to  be  a n ^ _ F (JeMr-  15J2  4t0)  Com,Mal 

original  an  l integral  IKirt.on  the  work,  hilly  acknowl-  ; ^ ,1M2>  Basil.  1539,  loll,  Genev.  1590,  fol.); 

edtjc  its  intrinsic  exce  cnee  am  eau  v . . . ! Cajetan,  Commenturius  (Horn.  1535,  folio) ; Is.  ben-Salo- 

There  is  no  difficulty  in  accounting  for  the  omission  J ’ • ' ' „ *.  , 

of  E lihu’s  name  in  the  introduction.  No  persons  are  (ha-Kohen),  W10  (Constantin.  lo45,  4to) ; Titel- 
narneil  in  the  book  until  they  appear  as  agents,  or  as  maun,  Elucidutio  (Paris,  1548,  1550,  8vo;  1553,  12mo; 
otherwise  concerned  in  the  events.  Thus  Job’s  breth-  Lugd.  1554,  Antw.  1566, 12mo) ; herus,  Explicatio  (Col. 
ren  are  named  iucideiftally  in  one  of  his  speeches,  and  1558,  1574,  Lugduu.  1567,  8vo) ; Lntzius,  Adnotationes 
his  relatives  are,  for  the 'first  time,  in  the  concluding  (Basil.  1559,  1563,  8vo) ; Calvin,  Sermons  (in  French, 
chapter.  Had  Elilni  been  mentioned  at  first, we  should  . Genev.  156o,  1611,  fol.;  in  Lat.  ib.  1569,  1593,  fol.  [also 
of  course  have  expected  him  to  take  part  in  the  discus-  in  Opp.  iii]  ; in  Engl.,  Lond.  1584,  fol.;  in  Germ.,  Herb, 
sion,  and  the  impression  made  by  his  startling  address  . 1587,  4 vols.  4to) ; Strigel,  Scholia  (Lipsia?,  1566,  1571, 
would  have  been  lost.  Job  does  not  answer  him,  nor,  1575,  8vo);  Steueh,  Enarrationcs  (Yen.  1567,  4to) ; Fo- 
indeed,  could  he  deny  the  cogency  of  his  arguments,  bian  (Mos.  b.-El.),  etc.  (modern  Greek  in  Heb. 

while  this  silence  brings  out  a curious  point  of  coin ci-  characters,  Constantinople,  1576,  4to);  Ibn-Jaish  (Bar. 
dence  with  a previous  declaration  of  the  patriarch  (vi,  bcn_Ig>)  r [includ.  Eccles.]  (Constant.  1576, 

24, 2o).  Again,  the  discourse,  being  substantially  true,  . . . - ' i ‘ T . . iru1  TJ 

diil  not  need  correction,  and  is  therefore  left  unnoticed  I ° •) , - ar  ora  us;  '-rposi  w ( ’’ixn . o . °),  ® u" 

in  the  final  decode  of  the  Almighty.  Nothing,  indeed,  «ga,  [on  eh.  i-xy...,  me  ml.  kant.]  (Com- 

conld  In.  more  in  harmony  with  the  ancient  traditions  ! ! "(  ")  ' . e2a.  ommen  uryis( eIle'*  » •» 

of  the  liait  than  that  a v'ooth,  moved  bv  a special  and  ' IS’,',mc!>’  ^mmentarm  (lolet  1584,  Homm, 

supernatural  impulse  to  speak  out  God’s  truth  in  the  i J3®1"  ^ i Lavater,  Connomis  (lignr.  585  fol.)  ; I(ol- 
proscnce  of  his  elders,  should  retire  into  obscurity  when  j '««*-  Commmtanm  (Geneva,  1590,  8vo) ; Duran  (Sun. 
he  had  done  l.is  work.  More  weight  is  to  ho  attached  1 bcn-Zemach),  3SV3-3  3nut  (Venice,  1590, 4to;  also  in 
t<»  the  objection  resting  upon  diversity  of  style  and  dia-  Frankfurter’s  Rabbinic  Bible) ; Farissol  (Abr.  b.-Mard.), 
K-tic  peculiarities.  The  most  acute  critics  differ  in-  'jtps  (in  the  Rabbinic  Bibles) ; Mord.  b.- Jacob  (of  Cra- 
deed  in  their  estimate  of  both,  and  are  often  grossly  de-  COw)"  nu  (Prague,  1597,  4to) ; *De  Pineda  [Roman 
oe.veil  (sec  Sehlottmam.,  p.  01) ; stiU,  there  can  be  little  | ,-ath.-|  Commentarii  (Madrit.  1597-1001,  2 vols.  folio ; 
doubt  as  to  the  fact.  It  may  be  accounted  for  either  on  r,  , AA  . , ,AAA  . 1P1A  ._Art 

.he  supposition  that  the  anti, or  adhered  strictly  to  the  Colon’  1600’  1C0°’  108o>  Al'twP- 1603’'  e"ct’ 1613’  1,()9' 
form  in  which  tradition  handed  down  the  dialogue— in  Lr8eL  1627’  Dans,  1031,  Lugdun.  1701,  fol.) ; Alschech, 
which  case  the  speech  of  a Syrian  might  he  expected  to  j Pl5^'?  (Ycnice,  1603,  4to ; Jesnitz,  1722,  fol.) ; 

heir  traces  of  his  dialect — or  that  the  Chaldaie  forms  ' Feuardcntius,  Homilim  [on  prose  parts]  (Par.  1606,  fol.); 
and  idioms,  which  are  far  from  resembling  later  vulgar-  \ Struck,  Predigten  (Cassel,  1607,  4to) ; Humfry,  Dialogue 
isms  or  corruptions  of  Hebrew,  and  occur  only  in  highly  (Lond.  1607,  4to);  Joannes  a Jesu  Maria,  Paraphrasis 
jHKitic  passages  of  the  oldest  writers,  are  such  as  pecnl-  I (Rom.  1611,  4to),  Piscator,  Comment  or  ins  (Herb.  1612, 
larly  suit  the  style  of  the  young  and  fiery  speaker  (see  j 8vo) ; De  Pineda,  Commenturius  (Colon.  1613, 1701, fol.); 
Sehlottmann,  End.  p.  61).  It  has  been  observed,  and  \ Ruhlich.  Predigten  (Wittcnb.  1617, 3 vols.  4to)  ; Janson, 
wit  h apparent  truth,  that  the  discourses  of  the  other  in-  | Enarratio  (Lovan.  1623,  1643,  folio) ; Quarles,  Medita- 
torlocutors  have  each  a very  distinct  and  characteristic  tions  (London,  1624,  4to) ; Sanctius,  Commentarii  (Lugd. 
coloring,  shown  not  only  in  the  general  tone  of  thought,  I 1625,  folio ; Lips.  1712, 4to) ; Olcarius,  Predif/ten  (Lpzg. 
>l,t  arit,e‘s  of  expression  (Ewald  and  Sclilott-  1633, 1665, 1672,  4to) ; Drusius,  Scholia  (Amsterd.  1636, 

maun).  1 he  excessive  obscurity  of  the  style,  which  is  4to;  also  in  Crit.  Sac.);  Diodati,  Explications  [nieliid. 
universally  admitted,  may  be  accounted  for  in  a similar  | l'sa.,  etc.]  (in  French,  Genev.  1038, 4to)  ; Yavassor,  Met- 
manucr.  A young  nun  speaking  under  strong  excite-  ! uphrasis  (Par.  1638, 12mo,  1679, 8vo;  Francf.  1654. 4to); 
mui  , c m >arrassc<  >y  the  presence  of  his  ciders  and  l>y  Bnlducius,  Comm-enturia  (Par.  1638  2 vols.  fob);  Abbott, 
Hie  peculiar  resnonsibilitv  of  his  nosition.  miaht  ho  zt  


V\  Commentaries.— The  following  is  a list  of  the  cx- 


[ including  Prov.,  etc.] 
(L.  B.  1651,  fol.);  Oodurcus,  Scholia  (Paris,  1651,  4to); 


Cuper,  Amst.  1666,  4to);  Zel- 
i.  1667,  4to) ; Spanheim,  Historia 
B.  1672,  8vo);  fiercer,  Commen- 
Bat.  1651,  folio);  Hack,  Postill 
; Hottinger,  Anah/sis  (Tigur.  1679, 


ZXfiii  r*?,?  i to'nn'l  4^  ■■■■ 1 ^ Urgent.  1680, 1690, 

translmi..!.  //'•  i ; also 


translation  i„  Emflish  isit  - i i7  , ’ 4tu)  ? labricius,  Predigten  (Nonmb. 

t Mvmpiodorus  et^/vlL  i ’/  ’ 4 V°K  Hvo)  ? ^^ck.  Paraphrase  (Lond.  1685,  8vo);  Cla 

duii,  1657  folio)  iiruno  1st  ^P^ti.-all  (Edinh.  1685,  fol.);  Yan  11 

‘ Astensis,  In  Jobum  (in  Opp.  i) ; . legging  (Loyd.  1697, 4to) ; H utcheson,  Lectun 


1705,  4to) ; Fahrioius,  Predigten  (Norimb.  1681,  4to) ; 

lark,  Exerci - 
Iloeeke,  1 ~yt- 
Lectures  (Loudon, 


JOB 


937 


JOB 


1699,  fol.) ; Blackmore,  Paraphrase  (Lond.  1700,  folio) ; 
An  ton  ides,  I 'erklaaring  (Leyd.  1700,  4to;  in  Germ.  F.  a. 
M.  1702,  4 to) ; Stisser,  Predigten  (Lpz.  1704,  4to);  Ish- 
am,  Notes  [includ.  Prov.,  etc.]  (Lond.  1706,  8vo);  Kor- 
tUm,  Anmerk.  (Lipsiie,  1708,  4to);  Daniel,  Analysis  (in 
French,  Leyd.  1710, 12mo);  Ob.  ben-J.  Sphorno, 
p'IS  (in  the  Rabb.  Bibles  and  in  Duran’s  Comment. ; in 
Latin,  Gotha,  1713-14, 3 vols.  4to)  ; Egard,  Erlauterung 
(Halle,  1716,  4to);  Michaelis,  Notce  (Halle,  1720,  4to); 
Scheuckzer,  Xaturwissensch.,  etc.  (Ziir.  1721,  4to);  Dis- 
tel,  De  salute  uxoris  Jobi  (Alt.  1722,  4to) ; Is.  ben-Salo- 
mou  Jabez,  *'-T3  riXTH  (in  the  Amst.  Rabb.  Bible,  1724) ; 
Yon  dcr  Hardt,  In  Jobum  (vol.  i,  Helmst.  1728,  fol.  [vol. 
ii  never  appeared,  having  been,  it  is  said,  consigned  to 
the  llanies  by  the  author  himself  as  absurd])  ; Crinsoz, 
Notes  (in  French,  Rotterd.  1729,  4to);  llardouin,  Para- 
phrase (in  French,  Par.  1729, 12mo) ; Duguet,  Indica- 
tion [mystical]  (Par.  1732,  4 vols.  I2mo) ; Anon.  Expli- 
cation (in  French,  Par.  1732,  2 vols.  12mo);  Fenton,  A n- 
notations [includ.  Psa.]  (London,  1732,  8vo) ; Hoffmann, 
Erkldrung  (Hamb.  1734,  4to);  S.  Wesley,  Dissert  a tiones 
(Lond.  1736,  fob);  Vogel,  Commentarius  (Lugd.  1757,  2 
vols.  4to;  abridged,  ibid.  1773,  8vo);  *Schultens,  Com- 
mentarius (L.  B.  1737,  2 vels.  4 to),  also  Animadversiones 
(Tr.  ad  Rh.  1708,  8vo),  and  Observations  (Amst.  1748, 
8vo)  ; abridged  by  Grey  (Lond.  1741, 8vo)  and  by  Vogel 
(Hal.  1773-4,  2 vols.  8vo) ; Bauingarten,  Auslegung  (pt. 
i,  Hal.  1740,  4to);  Oetinger,  Anmerkung.  (F.  a.  M.  1743, 
8vo) ; Koch,  Anmerkung.  (Lemg.  1743-7,  3 vols.  4to); 
Balirdt,  Erkldrung  (Lipsiie,  1744,  4to) ; Bellamy,  Para- 
phrase (Lond.  1748, 4to) ; Reinhard,  Erkldr.  (Lpz.  1749- 
50,  2 vols.  4 to) ; Hodges,  Scope,  etc.  (London,  1750,  4to, 
1756, 8vo;  DubL  1758,  8vo) ; Garnet, Dissertation  (Lond. 
1751,  4to) ; Chappelow,  Paraphrase  (Camb.  1752, 2 vols. 
4to);  Heath,  Essay  (London,  1755,  4to;  ib.  1756,  4to); 
Peters,  Dissertation  [against  Warburton]  (Lond.  2d  ed. 
1757,  8vo);  Bonllier,  Observationes  (Amst.  1758,  8vo); 
fetuss,  De  Epopcca  Jobcea  (Gotha,  1758,  4to);  Cernti, 
Giobbo  (Rome,  1764,  1773,  8vo),  J.  Uri-Seheraga,  11TX 
r.^3  (F. a. 0.1765, fob);  Sticht,  De  colloquio  Dei 
cum  Satana  (Altona,  1766,  4to)  ; Grynteus,  Anmerkung. 
(Basel,  1767,  4to) ; Froriep,  Ephraemiana  in  J.  (Lipsiie, 
1769,  8vo);  Cube,  Uebers.  (Berl.  1769-71,  3 vols.  8vo); 
Meintel,  Erkldrung  (Xiimb.  1771,  4to),  also  Metapkra- 
sis  (ibid.  1775,  4to);  Scott,  Remarks  (London,  1771, 4to, 
1773,  8vo) ; Anon.  Hist,  of  Job  (Lond.  1772,  8vo) ; Dres- 
ler,  Erldut.  [on  parts]  (Herb.  1773,  8vo) ; Eckermann 
Umschreibung  (Liib.  1778,  4to);  also  Animadversiones 
(ibid.  1779, 8vo) ; Reiske,  Conjectures  [includ.  Proverbs] 
(Lips.  1779,  8vo);  Dessau,  ’“O;?  (Berl.  1779,  4to); 
Sander,  I Hob  (Lpz.  1780,  8vo);  Mohlenhauer,  Uerbersetz. 
(Lpz.  1780-1,  2 vols.  8vo)  ; Hufnagel,  Anmerk.  (Erlang. 
1781,  8vo) ; Kessler,  Anmerkung.  (Tubingen,  1784,  8vo) ; 
Sclinurrer,  A nimadversiones  [on  parts]  (Tub.  1787  sq.,  2 
pts.  4to) ; Greve,  Notce  [ on  last  ch.]  (Davent.  1788,  4to) ; 
Dathe,  Notce  [includ.  Prov.,  etc.]  (Hal.  1789,  8vo);  II- 
gen,  Natura  Jobi  (Lipsiie,  1789,  8vo);  Heins,  Anmerk. 
(in  Danish,  Kiobenh.  1790,  8vo);  Ab.  Wolfssohn, 
(Prague,  1791,  Vienna,  1806,  8vo);  Bellermann,  Xum  sit 
liber  J.  historia  (Erf.  1792, 4to) ; also  De  Jobi  indole  (ib. 
1793, 4to);  also  Ueber  d.  Plan  Hiob  (Berlin,  1813, 8vo); 
Muntinghe,  Anmerk.  (in  Dutch,  Amster.  1794,  8vo);  in 
Germ.,  Lpz.  1797,  8vo);  Jacobi,  Annotationes  [on  parts] 
(Jen.  1795, 8vo) ; Garden,  Notes  (Lond.  1796, 8vo) ; Ber- 
gius,  Exercitationes  (Upsala,  1796.  8vo) ; Pape,  Versuch 
(Gutting.  1797, 8vo) ; Wheelden,  Delineation,  etc.  (Lond. 
1799,  8vo);  Block,  Uebers.  (Ratzeb.  1799,  Hamb.  1804, 
8vo)  ; Riedel,  Gesange  (Pressb.  1799,  8vo) ; Satanow, 
etc.  (Berlin,  1799,  8vo);  Richter,  De  cetate  Jobi 
(Lipsiie,  1799,  4to);  Eichhom,  Uebers.  (Lpz.  1800,  8vo; 
also  in  his  Biblioth.  iv,  10  sq.);  Kern,  Inhalt,  etc.  (in 
Bengel’s  A rchiv,  viii,  352  sq.) ; also  Observationes  (Tub. 
1826,  4to) ; Stuhlmann,  Erldut.  (Hamburg,  1804,  8vo) ; 
Stock,  Notes  (Bath,  1805, 8vo)  ; Ottensosser,  E*S“>n,  etc. 


(Offenb.  1807  [?],  8vo);  Pareau,  De  immorfalitate,  etc. 
(Davent.  1807,  8vo);  Polozk  (Pinch.  ben-Jeh.), 

CJTPS  (Wilna,  1808, 4to) ; Gaab,  Hiob  (Ttib.  1809, 8vo); 
Elizabeth  Smith  [ed.  Randolph],  Annotations  (London, 
1810, 8vo) ; *Good,  Notes  (Lond.  1812,  8vo) ; G.  H.  Bern- 
stein,  Zweck,  etc.  (in  lveil’s  Analekten,  1813, 1,  iii,  1-137) ; 
Neumann,  Charakteristik,  etc.  (Bresl.  1817,  4to);  Mid- 
deldorpf,  Syr.-hexapl.  etc.  (Vratisl.  1817,  4to) ; Bridcl, 
Commentaire  (in  part  only,  Paris,  1818,  8vo);  Schiirer, 
Erldut.  (Bern,  1818-20,  2 vols.  8vo);  J tiger,  De  integri- 
tate,  etc.  (Tub.  1820,  8vo) ; Autenrietk,  I Hob  (Tub.  1823, 
8vo);  Melsheimer,  Anmerk.  (Mannh.  1823, 8vo);  *lTm- 
breit,  Ausleg.  (Hcidelb.  1824, 1832, 8vo ; in  Engb,  Edinb. 
1836-7,  2 vols.  12mo);  *BosenmUller,  Scholia  (Lipsiie, 
1824,  8vo) ; llrubieszow,  (Lemberg,  1824, 1834, 

Warsaw,  1838,  8vo);  Hunt,  Translation  (Bath,  1825, 
8vo);  Levasseur,  Traduction  (Par.  1826, 8vo);  Blumeu- 
feld,  Commetit.  (in  Ileb.,  Vienna,  1826,  8vo);  Fry,  Expo- 
sition (Lond.  1827,  8vo);  Biicksel,  Erldut.  (Hamb.  1830, 
8vo) ; lvoster,  Uebers.  [includ.  Eccles.]  (Schleswig,  1831, 
8vo);  G.  Lange,  Uebers.  (Halle,  1831,  8vo);  Petri,  Com- 
ment at  iones  (Brunsw.  1833,  4to) ; Sachs,  Charukt..  etc. 
(in  Stud,  unci  Krit.  1834,  p.  910  sq.);  Jeitteles, 
etc.  (Vienna,  1834,  8vo);  lvnobel,  De  Jobi  argnmento 
(Vratisl.  1835,  8vo);  Arnheim,  Commentar  (Glog.  1836, 
8vo);  *Ewald,  Erkldr.  (Giitt.  1836,  8vo);  Fockens,  De 
Jobeide  (Ziitphen,  1836,  8vo) ; *Lee,  Commentary  (Lond. 
1837,  8vo);  Anon.  Paraphrase  [poetical,  on  last  10  ch.) 
(Lond.  1838,  8vo);  Dessauer,  E^P,  etc.  (Pressb.  1838, 
8vo) ; Iiolzhansen,  Uebers.  (Gbtt.  1839, 8vo) ; Holscher, 
Uebers.  (Osnab.  1839,  8vo);  Laurens,  Traduction  [in- 
clud. Psalms]  (Par.  1839,  8vo);  *Wemyss,  Job's  Times 
(Lond.  1839,  8vo);  *Hirzel,  Erkldr.  (Lpz.  1839,  ed.  Ols- 
hausen,  1852,  ed.  Dillmann,  1864,  8vo);  Justi,  Erlduter. 
(Kassel,  1840,  8vo) ; Jenour,  Translation  (London,  1841, 
8vo);  *Vaihinger,  Erlduter.  (Stuttg.  1842,  1856,  8vo); 
Stickel,  Bemerk.  (Lpzg.  1842,  8vo);  J.Wolfson,  Erldut. 
(Lpzg.  1843,  8vo) ; Gleiss,  Beitrage  (Hamb.  1845,  8vo) ; 
i 1’olak,  Ijjob  (in  Dutch,  Amst.  1845,  8vo);  Tattam,  Tr. 
' from  Coptic  (London,  1846, 8 vo);  lleiligstedt,  Comment. 
(in  new  ed.  of  Maurer,  Lips,  et  Berl.  1847,  8vo);  Welte, 
Erkldr.  (Freib.  1849,  8vo) ; Hahn,  Commentar  (Berlin, 
1849, 8vo) ; * Noyes,  Notes  (Bost.  1850, 1854, 1867. 12mo) ; 
Barnes,  Notes  (N.  Y.  and  Lond.  1850, 1854, 2 vols.  12mo) ; 
*Sehlottmann,  Erldut.  (Berlin,  1851, 8vo);  Mercier,  Com- 
mentarius [including  Prov.]  (Lugd.  1651,  fol.);  Froude, 
Job  (in  the  Westminster  Rev.  1853;  reprinted  in  Short 
Studies,  London,  1858) ; Kcmpe,  Lectures  (London,  1855, 
12mo);  Evans,  Lectures  (London,  1856, 8vo);  Krahmer, 
Hiob  (in  the  Thtol.  Literaturbl.  1856);  *I4engstenberg, 
1 Hob  (Berl.  1856,  1870  sq.,  8vo);  Anonym.  Illustrations 
(Lond.  1856, 8vo) ; *Conant,  Job  (in  public,  of  American 
Bible  Union,  N.  Y.  1856,  4to  and  12nio);  Carey,  Expla- 
nation (Lond.  1858,  8vo);  *Ebrard,  Erldut.  (Land.  1858, 
8vo) ; C.  H.  Bernsteiu,  Bar-IIebrcei  Scholia  (Yratislav, 
1858,  8vo);  Berkholz,  Hiob  (Riga,  1859,  8vo) ; *Renan, 
Livre  de  Job  (Paris,  1859,  1860,  8vo);  Crelier,  Line  de 
Job  [against  Renan]  (Par.  1860, 8vo);  Ilnpfeld,  Bedeu- 
tung,  etc.  (in  the  Zeitschr.f.  Christ.  Wissensch.  Aug.  and 
| Sept.  1860) ; Wagner,  Sermons  (Lond.  1860,  8vo) ; Inin- 
son,  Kritik  (Kbnigsberg,  1861, 4to) ; Leroux,  Traduction 
| (Par.  1861,  8vo);  Davidson,  Commentary  (vol.  i,  Loud. 
1862,  8vo) : Odiosus,  Erldut.  (Berlin,  1863, 8vo) ; Croly, 
Job  (Lond.  1863,  8vo) ; Bernard,  Job  (vol.  i,  Lond.  186*4, 
8vo);  Rodwell,  Translation  (London,  1864,  8vo);  *l)e- 
litzsch,  Commentar  (Lpz.  1864, 8 vo;  in  English,  Edinb. 
1866,  2 vols.  8vo) ; Mourad,  Oversult.  (Kjobenh.  1865, 
i 8vo)  ; Mathes,  ] "erklaaring  (Utrecht,  1866, 2 vols.  8vo); 
| Reuss,  Vortrag  (Strassb.  1869, 8vo) ; Anon.  Notes  (Lond. 
1869, 4to)  ; Volk,  Summit,  etc.  (Dorpat,  1870, 4to).  See 
Poetry. 

JOB’S  DISEASE.  The  opinion  that  the  malady 
under  which  Job  suffered  was  elephantiasis,  or  black 
leprosy,  is  so  ancient  that  it  is  found,  according  to  Or- 
igen’s  Hexapla,  in  the  rendering  which  one  of  the  Greek 


JOB 


938 


JOCHANAN 


versions  has  made  of  ii,  7.  It  was  also  entertained  by 
A hulled  a (Hist.  Anteisl.  p.  20),  aud,  in  modern  times,  by 
the  best  scholars  generally.  The  passages  which  are 
considered  to  indicate  this  disease  are  found  in  the  de- 
scription of  his  skin  burning  from  head  to  foot,  so  that 
lie  took  a potsherd  to  scrape  himself  (ii,  7,8);  in  its  be- 
ing covered  with  putrefaction  and  crusts  of  earth,  and 
being  at  one  time  stiff  and  hard,  while  at  another  it 
cracked  and  discharged  fluid  (vii,  5) ; in  the  offensive 
breath,  which  drove  away  the  kindness  of  attendants 
(xix,  17),  in  the  restless  nights,  which  were  either 
sleepless  or  scared  with  frightful  dreams  (vii,  13,  14 ; 
xxx,  17) ; in  general  emaciation  (xvi,  8);  and  in  so  in- 
tense a loathing  of  the  burden  of  life  that  strangling  and 
death  were  preferable  to  it  (vii,  15).  In  this  picture  of 
Job’s  sufferings  the  state  of  the  skin  is  not  so  distinctly 
described  as  to  enable  us  to  identify  the  disease  with 
elephantiasis  in  a rigorous  sense.  The  difficulty  is  also 
increased  by  the  fact  that  ■fnd  (shackin',  a sore,  Sept. 
i\koq)  is  generally  rendered  “ boils.”  But  that  word, 
according  to  its  radical  sense,  only  means  burning/,  in- 
flammation— a hot  sense  of  pain,  which,  although  it  at- 
tends boils  and  abscesses,  is  common  to  other  cutaneous 
irritations.  Moreover,  the  fact  that  Job  scraped  him- 
self with  a potsherd  is  irreconcilable  with  the  notion 
that  his  body  was  covered  with  boils  or  open  sores,  but 
agrees  very  well  with  the  thickened  state  of  the  skin 
which  characterizes  the  disease. — Kitto.  See  Leprosy. 

2.  (2' *,  Yob ; if  genuine,  perh.  returning , from  = 

I'X;  Sept.  Tamw/3,Yulg.  Job.)  The  third-named  of  the 
four  sons  of  Issaehar  (Gen.  xlvi,  13),  elsewhere  called 
Jashub  (Numb,  xxvi,  24;  1 Chron.  vii,  1),  for  which 
this  is  probably  an  erroneous  transcription. 

Job  of  Iit'sroFF,  first  patriarch  of  the  Russo-Greek 
Church,  flourished  in  the  second  half  of  the  lGth  century. 
We  have  already  had  occasion  to  refer  to  the  circum- 
stances under  which  Russia  succeeded  in  establishing  an 
independent  patria- -hate  in  her  dominions  in  the  bio- 
graphical sketch  of  the  Greek  patriarch  Jeremiah  (q.  v.). 
This  important  event  took  place  in  1583,  and  was  sol- 
emnly confirmed  by  the  Gonstantinopolitan  patriarch  in 
a synod  of  the  Greek  Church  held  in  1592.  The  act  was 
also  confirmed  in  1619  by  Theophil,  the  patriarch  of  Je- 
rusalem. By  the  other  Oriental  patriarchs  Job  was  rec- 
ognised as  the  fifth  patriarch  of  the  orthodox  Church. 
Of  his  personal  history  we  are  ignorant.  See  Ascii  bach, 
Kirclv  n-Lex.  iii,  291 ; Stanley,  East.  Church,  p.  435, 436 ; 
Strahl,  Russ- K irch engesch . i,  619.  Sec  Greek  Church, 
vol  iii,  p.  9s  1,  col.  2. 

Jo  bab  (Ilcb.  Yobab',  2^*^,  probably  dweller  in  the 
ilesrrt,  from  the  Arabic;  Sept.  ’lw/3«/3,  but  in  1 Chron.  I, 
23,  rop  ICoi  Kui  rbv  'Hoag,  v.  r.  simply  Tu>a/3),  the  name 
of  several  men. 

1.  The  last-named  of  the  sons  of  Joktan,  and  founder 
of  n tribe  in  Arabia  (Gen.  x,  29 ; 1 Chron.  i,  23),  I1J  ’.  post 
2114  15  , chart  compares  (I'hileg,  ii,  *29)  the  Jobaritin 
( ItoAanirai)  of  l'tolemv  (vi.7, 24),  a people  on  the  east- 
ern coast  of  Arabia,  near  the  Socalit:u,  which,  after  Snl- 
lnasius,  he  supposes  to  be  for  Jobnbihc;  so  also  Miclia- 
ehs  (Sgicileg.  ii,  303 ; Supplem.  1013). 

2.  Son  of  /erali  of  Bozrah,  king  of  Edom  after  Bela 
and  before  Uusham  (Gen.  xxxvi,  33,34;  1 Chron.  i, 44 
4o),  15  < '.  prob.  long  ante  1617.  The  supposition  that  lie 
was  identical  with  the  patriarch  Job  rests  onlv  upon  the 
apocryphal  addition  to  the  hook  of  Job  in  the  Sept.,  and 
is  utterly  unworthy  of  credit.  See  Jon. 

3.  1 lie  Canaanitish  king  of  Madon,  one  of  those  whose 
aid  Jahm  invoked  in  the  struggle  with  the  Israelites 
(Josh,  xi,  1 ),  B.C.  1617. 


4-  The  first-named  of  the  sons  of  Shaharaim  by  one 
of  his  wives,  llodcsh  or  Baara,  of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin, 
chirp'  “l*parentl'v  1,001  1,1  ^Moab  (1  Clmjii.viii,9),B.C. 

5.  One  of  the  “ sons”  of  Elpaal.  a chief  of  Benjamin, 
at  Jerusalem  (l  Chron.  viii.  ls>,  Ij.c.  probably  cir.  588. 


Joceline,  bishop  of  Bath  axd  Wells.  See  Joirx 

( king  of  England). 

Joceline  of  Salisbury,  a prelate  of  the  early  Eng- 
lish Church,  flourished  from  1142  to  1184.  In  the  con- 
troversy of  Thomas  a Beeket  with  King  Henry  II  on 
investitures,  he  played  no  unimportant  part,  for  he  sided 
with  the  king  in  this  great  ecclesiastical  war,  and  thus 
fell  under  the  displeasure  of  the  archbishop.  See  In- 
vestiture. The  latter,  in  accordance  with  his  indom- 
itable spirit,  soon  found  a pretext  to  impress  his  in- 
ferior with  his  power  at  Rome  by  condemning  Joee- 
line  for  his  assent  to  the  royal  election  or  appoint- 
ment of  John  of  Oxford  to  the  deanery  of  Salisbury, 

I notwithstanding  the  archbishop’s  prohibition.  Joceline 
| adhering  to  his  former  course,  Beeket  pronounced  ex- 
communication against  the  rebellious  prelate,  and  this 
i act  was  approved  shortly  after  by  pope  Alexander  III 
(1 166).  Of  course  the  bishop  remained  in  his  place,  hut 
he  encountered  many  difficulties  from  the  subordination 
I of  inferior  ecclesiastics,  as  in  the  ease  of  tire  monks  of 
Malmesbury  about  1180  (comp.  Inett,  Hist.  Engl.  Ch.  ii, 
ch.  xv,  § 19).  See  England,  Church  of. 

Joch,  Johann  Georg,  a German  theologian,  born 
l at  Rotenburg,  in  F ranconia,  in  1685,  became  professor  of 
j theology  at  Wittenberg,  aud  died  in  1731.  To  him  be- 
longs the  credit  of  having  been  the  first  to  assert  the  su- 
periority of  practical  Christianity  over  the  then  prevail- 
! ing  pietism,  in  the  principal  stronghold  of  Lutheran  the- 
[ ology,  the  cathedra  Lutheri  of  Wittenberg.  While  yet 
I at  Jena,  the  centre  of  pietism  in  the  beginning  of  the 
18th  century,  he  was,  both  as  a student  and  as  private 
tutor,  one  of  the  disciples  of  Spener,  and  an  ardent  pie- 
tist ; but  when  he  became  superintendent  of  the  gymna- 
sium of  Dortmund,  where  dogmatics  and  polemics  alone 
filled  the  churches  and  the  halls  of  learning,  Joch  turned 
his  attention  to  the  subjects  of  conversion  and  second 
birth.  He  was  of  course  involved  in  a controversy,  hut 
he  seems  to  have  been  quite  successful,  for  in  1726  lie* 
was  made  a professor  of  theology  at  Wittenberg. — Her- 
zog, Real- Enajklop.  s.  v.  See  Augusti,  Der  Pietismus  in 
Jena,  etc.  (Jena,  1837) ; Gobel,  Gesch.  d.  Christl.  Lebens 
in  d.  rli.-westph.  ev.  Kirchc. 

Jochaiian  Bar-Nap acii a,  a distinguished  rabbi, 
was  born  in  JucLea  about  A.  D.  170.  He  is  said  to  have 
studied  under  Judah  Hakkodesh  and  other  Jewish  teach- 
ers, and  is  believed  to  have  formed  a school  of  his  own  at 
Tiberias  when  quite  a youth.  Ilis  history,  like  that  of 
all  other  distinguished  rabbis  of  that  period,  has  been  so 
intermingled  with  extraordinary  legends  that  it  is  well- 
nigh  impossible  to  arrive  at  anything  definite  concern- 
ing his  fife.  So  much  appears  certain,  that  he  lived 
to  a very  old  age,  instructing  very  nearly  to  his  last 
hour  (in  279).  He  is  by  some  Hebraists  supposed  to 
have  collected  all  the  works  written  on  the  Jerusalem 
Talmud  (q.  v.);  but  this  seems  unreasonable.  See  J. 
Fiirst.  Biblioth.  Judaica,  ii,  94,  99  ; Griitz,  Geschichte  der 
Juden,  iv,  285  sq.  See  Judaii  iiak-Kodesii.  (J.  H. 
W.) 

J ochanan  Bfn-Zachai.  a Jewish  rabbi  of  some  note, 
and  contemporary  of  the  celebrated  Gamaliel  II,  whom 
lie  succeeded  in  the  patriarchal  dignity,  was  born  about 
B.C.  50.  But  little  is  known  of  his  personal  history, 
i lie  is  said  to  have  been  a decided  peace  man,  and  to 
have  greatly  discouraged  any  revolutionary  efforts  of 
his  suffering  countrymen.  This  may  account  for  the 
esteem  in  which  he  was  held  at  the  court  of  Vespasian, 

| who  was  always  found  ready  to  oblige  his  Jewish  friend. 
Jochaiian  Ben-Zaehai  is  regarded  as  the  restorer  of  Jcw- 
ish  learning  and  scholastic  habits  after  the  destruction 
i of  the  Temple,  by  the  founding  of  a school  at  Jabneh, 
aud  a new  sanhedrim,  of  which  he  was  the  first  presi- 
j dent,  thus  presenting  to  the  unfortunate  and  dispersed 
' race  another  centre  in  place  of  the  lately-destroyed  cap- 
! ltak  How  long  he  served  his  people  at  Jabneh  is  not 


j known;  Griitz  inclines  to  put  it  at  about  ten  years 
j (comp.  Frankel,  Monatsschrift  [1852,  p.  201  sq.]).  He 


JOCHANAN 


939 


died  about  A.D.  70.  For  details,  see  Griitz,  Gesch.  der  [ 
Jnden,  iv,  ch.  i;  Basnage,  / list,  des  Juifs,  v,  15  sq. ; ix, 
95  sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Jochanan  of  Gischala.  See  John  of  Gischa- 
la. 

Jocll'ebed  (Hob.  Yoke'bed,  “QS'P,  Jehovah  is  her 
glory ; Sept.  ’1  tux«/3£C  or  Tw\;«/3fjj,  the  wife  of  Ara- 
ram,  and  mother  of  Miriam,  Aaron,  and  Moses  (Numb, 
xxvi,  59).  B.C.  1738.  In  Exod.  vi,  20  she  is  expressly 
declared  to  have  been  the  sister  of  Amram’s  father,  and 
consequently  the  aunt  of  her  husband.  As  marriage 
between  persons  thus  related  was  afterwards  forbidden 
by  the  law  (Lev.  xviii,  12),  various  attempts  have  been 
made  to  show  that  the  relationship  was  more  distant 
than  the  text  in  its  literal  meaning  indicates.  But  the 
mere  mention  of  the  relationship  implies  that  there  was 
something  remarkable  in  the  case.  The  fact  seems  to 
be,  that  where  this  marriage  was  contracted  there  was 
no  law  forbidding  such  alliances,  but  they  must  in  any 
case  have  been  unusual,  although  not  forbidden;  and 
this,  with  the  writer’s  knowledge  that  they  were  subse- 
quently interdicted,  sufficiently  accounts  for  this  one 
being  so  pointedly  mentioned.  The  candor  of  the  his- 
torian in  declaring  himself  to  be  sprung  from  a mar- 
riage afterwards  forbidden  by  the  law,  delivered  through 
himself,  deserves  especial  notice.  — Kit  to.  In  Numb, 
xxvi,  59,  Jochebed  is  stated  to  have  been  “ the  daugh- 
ter of  Levi,  whom  her  mother  bore  to  Levi  in  Egypt,” 
from  which  it  likewise  appears  that  she  was  literally 
the  sister  of  Kohath,  Levi’s  son  and  Amram’s  father 
(Exod.vi,  16, 18.  On  the  chronology,  see  Brown’s  Ordo 
Bteclorum , p.  301).  The  courage  and  faith  of  this  ten- 
der mother  in  braving  Pharaoh’s  edict  by  her  ingenious 
secretion  and  subsequent  exposure  of  the  infant  Moses 
(Exod.  ii,  I— 10)  are  alluded  to  with  commendation  by 
the  apostle  (Heb.  xi,  23),  and  were  signally  rewarded  by 
divine  providence ; to  her  pious  example  and  precepts  I 
the  future  lawgiver  doubtless  owed  much  of  that  integ- 
rity which  so  eminently  characterized  him.  Sec  Moses. 

Jo' da  (TwJa),  a corrupt  form  (1  Esdr.  v,  58)  of  the 
name  of  Judaii  (q.  v),  the  Levite  (Ezra  iii,  9). 

Jo'ed  (Ileb.  Yoed',  Jehovah  is  his  witness  ; 

Sept.  Twd5),  son  of  Pedaiali,  father  of  Mcshullam,  and 
grandfather  of  Sallu,  which  last  was  one  of  the  Bcnja- 
mites  who  resided  in  Jerusalem  after  the  captivity  (Nell, 
xi,  7).  B.C.  considerably  ante  538. 

Jo'el  (Heb.  YoeV,  Jehovah  is  his  God;  Sept, 

and  N.  T.  TonjX),  the  name  of  at  least  twelve  men. 

1.  The  oldest  of  the  two  sons  of  Samuel,  appointed 
by  him  as  judges  in  Beer-sheba,  where  their  maladmin- 
istration led  to  the  popular  desire  for  a monarchy  (1 
Sam.  viii,  2).  See  Samuel.  In  1 Chron.  vi,  26,  by  a 
clerical  error,  he  is  called  Vashni  (q.  v.).  B.C.  cir. 
1094.  lie  appears  to  have  been  the  fattier  of  Heman, 
the  Levitical  singer  (1  Chron.  vi,  33;  xv,  17). 

2.  A descendant  of  lteuben  (but  by  what  line  does 
not  appear),  and  father  of  Shemaiali  or  Shema,  several 
incidents  in  the  history  of  whose  posterity  are  related 
(1  Chron.  v,  4,  8).  B.C.  considerably  ante  1092. 

3.  Brother  of  Nathan  of  Zobah,  and  one  of  David’s 
famous  warriors  (1  Chron.  xi,  38) ; called  Igal  (q.  v.) 
in  the  parallel  passage  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  36). 

4.  The  third  named  of  the  four  sons  of  Izraliiah,  a 
chieftain  of  the  tribe  of  Issachar  (1  Chron.  vii,  3).  B.C. 
proh.  cir.  1017. 

5.  A chief  Levite  of  the  family  of  Gcrshom,  at  the 
head  of  130  Temple  servitors  (1  Chron.  xv,  7, 11) ; prob- 
ably the  same  with  the  third  of  the  “ sons”  of  Laadan 
(1  Chron.  xxiii,  8),  and  also  with  the  son  of  Jehiel,  who, 
with  Zetham  his  brother,  had  charge  of  the  “ treasures 
of  the  house  of  the  Lord”  (1  Chron.  xxvi,  22).  B.C. 
1014. 

6.  Son  of  Pedaiali,  and  prince  of  the  half-tribe  of  Ma- 
nasseh  west  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  20).  B.C.  1014. 

7.  Son  of  Pethuel,  and  second  of  the  twelve  minor 


JOEL,  BOOK  OF 

prophets  (Joel  i,  1).  His  history  is  only  known  from 
the  contents  of  the  book  that  bears  his  name. 

JOEL,  BOOK  OF.  I.  Personal  Circumstances.  — 1. 
Birthplace. — Pscudo-Epiplianius  (ii,  245)  records  a tra- 
dition that  the  prophet  Joel  was  of  the  tribe  of  Beuben, 
born  and  buried  at  Bcthhoron  (v.  r.  Betlioim,  etc.),  be- 
tween Jerusalem  and  Caesarea.  It  is  most  likely  that 
he  lived  in  Jiulsea,  for  his  commission  was  to  Judah,  as 
that  of  Hosea  had  been  to  the  ten  tribes  (Jerome,  Com- 
ment. in  Joel.).  He  exhorts  the  priests,  and  makes  fre- 
quent mention  of  Judah  and  Jerusalem  (i,  14;  ii,  1,  15, 
32;  iii,  1,  12,  17,  20,  21).  It  has  been  made  a question 
whether  he  were  a priest  himself  (Wilier,  Realw.),  but 
there  do  not  seem  to  be  sufficient  grounds  for  determin- 
ing it  in  the  affirmative,  though  some  recent  writers  (e. 
g.  Maurice,  Prophets  and  Kings,  p.  189)  have  taken  this 
view. 

2.  Date. — Various  opinions  have  been  held  respecting 
the  period  in  which  Joel  lived.  It  appears  most  proba- 
ble that  he  was  contemporary  with  Amos  and  Isaiah, 
and  delivered  his  predictions  in  the  reign  of  Uzziali,  B. 
C.  cir.  800.  This  is  the  opinion  maintained  by  Abar- 
banel,  Yitringa,  Boscnmiillcr,  De  Wette,  Holzliausen, 
and  others  (see  D.  ll.v.  Kolln,  Biss,  tie  Joel  cctate,  Marb. 
1811;  Jiiger,  in  the  Tubing,  theol.  Zeitschr.  1828,  ii,  227). 
Credner  {Joel,  p.  38  sq.),  with  whom  agree  M overs 
{Chron.  119  sq.),  Hitzig  ( Kleine  Propli.  p.  4),  and  Meier 
{Joel,  p.  16  sq.),  places  him  in  the  time  of  Joasli ; Bcr- 
tlioldt  (Einleit.  iv,  1604)  in  that  of  Hezekiah ; Cramer 
and  Eckermann  in  Josiali’s  reign ; Jalin  {Einl.  ii,  476)  in 
Manasseli’s ; and  Schroder  still  later ; while  some  have 
placed  him  during  the  Babylonian  captivity  (Stcudel, 
in  Bengel’s  Archie,  ii,  232),  and  even  after  it  (Vatke, 
Bibl.  Theol.  p.  462).  The  principal  reason  for  the  above 
conclusion,  besides  the  order  of  the  books  (the  Sept., 
however,  places  Joel  after  Amos  and  Micah),  is  the  spe- 
cial and  exclusive  mention  of  the  Egyptians  and  Edom- 
ites as  enemies  of  Judah,  no  allusion  being  made  to  the 
Assyrians  or  Babylonians,  v ho  arose  at  a later  period. 

II.  Contents. — We  find,  what  we  should  expect  on  the 
supposition  of  Joel  being  the  first  prophet  to  Judah,  only 
a grand  outline  of  the  whole  terrible  scene,  which  was 
to  be  depicted  more  and  more  in  detail  by  subsequent 
prophets  (Browne, Ordo  Scrcl.  p.  691).  The  scope,  there- 
fore, is  not  any  particular  invasion,  but  the  ■whole  day 
of  the  Lord.  “This  book  of  Joel  is  a type  of  the  early 
Jewish  prophetical  discourse,  and  may  explain  to  us 
what  distant  events  in  the  history  of  the  land  would 
expand  it,  and  bring  fresh  discoveries  within  the  sphere 
of  the  inspired  man’s  vision”  (Maurice,  Prophets  and 
Kings,  p.  179).  The  proximate  event  to  which  the 
prophecy  related  was  a public  calamity,  then  impending 
on  Judaea,  of  a twofold  character:  want  of  water,  and  a 
plague  of  locusts,  continuing  for  several  }-ears.  The 
prophet  exhorts  the  people  to  turn  to  God  with  peni- 
tence, fasting,  and  prayer,  and  then,  he  says,  the  plague 
shall  cease,  and  the  rain  descend  in  its  season,  and  the 
land  yield  her  accustomed  fruit — nay,  the  time  will  be  a 
most  joyful  one ; for  God,  by  the  outpouring  of  his  Spirit, 
will  impart  to  his  worshippers  increased  knowledge  of 
himself,  and,  after  the  excision  of  the  enemies  of  his 
people,  will  extend  through  them  the  blessings  of  true 
religion  to  heathen  lands.  Browne  {Ordo  Sercl.  p.  692) 
regards  the  contents  of  the  prophecy  as  embracing  two 
visions,  but  it  is  better  to  consider  it  as  one  connected 
representation  (Hengstenberg,  Winer).  For  its  inter- 
pretation we  must  observe  not  isolated  facts  of  history, 
but  the  idea.  The  swarm  of  locusts  was  the  medium 
through  which  this  idea,  “ the  ruin  upon  the  apostate 
Church,”  was  represented  to  the  inward  contemplation 
of  the  prophet ; but,  in  one  unbroken  connection,  the 
idea  goes  on  to  penitence,  return,  blessing,  outpouring  of 
the  Spirit,  judgments  on  the  enemies  of  the  Church  (1 
Pet.  iv,  17),  final  establishment  of  God’s  kingdom.  All 
prior  destructions,  judgments,  and  victories  are  like  the 
smaller  circles,  the  final  consummation  of  all  things,  to 
which  the  prophecy  reaches,  being  the  outmost  one  of 


JOEL,  BOOK  OF 


940 


JOEL,  BOOK  OF 


thus  four  natural  divisions  of  the  entire  | eousness,”  with  margin  of  A.V.,Hengstenberg,  and  oth- 


all.  There  are 
book. 

1.  The  prophet  opens  his  commission  by  announcing 
an  extraordinary  plague  of  locusts,  accompanied  with 
extreme  drought,  which  he  depicts  in  a strain  of  ani- 
mated and  sublime  poetry  under  the  image  of  an  in- 
vading army  (i,  1-ii,  11).  The  fidelity  of  his  liighlv- 
wrouglif  description  is  corroborated  and  illustrated  by 
the  testimonies  of  Shaw,  Volnev,  Forbes,  and  other  em- 
inent travellers,  who  have  been  eye-witnesses  of  the 
ravages  committed  by  this  most  terrible  of  the  insect 
tribe?  See  Locust.  It  is  to  be  observed  that  locusts 
are  named  by  Moses  as  instruments  of  the  divine  justice 
(Dent,  xxviii,  3S,  30),  and  by  Solomon  in  his  prayer  at 
the  dedication  of  the  Temple  (1  Kings  viii,  37).  In  the 
second  chapter  the  formidable  aspect  of  the  locusts,  their 
rapid  progress,  their  sweeping  devastation,  the  awful 
murmur  of  their  countless  throngs,  their  instinctive 
marshalling,  the  irresistible  perseverance  with  which 
they  make  their  way  over  every  obstacle  and  through 
every  aperture,  are  delineated  with  the  utmost  graphic 
force  (Justi,  Die  Ileuschrecken  - Vei'U'iisiung  Joel  ii,  in 
Eichhorn’s  Bibliothek , iv,  30-79).  Dr.  llengstenberg 
calls  in  question  the  reality  of  their  flight,  but,  as  it  ap- 
pears to  ns,  without  adequate  reason.  Other  particu- 
lars are  mentioned  which  literally  can  apply  only  to  lo- 
custs, and  which,  oil  the  supposition  that  the  language 


ers.  The  allusion  to  the  Messiah  which  Hengstenberg 
finds  in  this  word,  or  to  the  ideal  teacher  (Deut.  xviii, 
18),  of  whom  Messiah  was  the  chief,  scarcely  accords 
with  the  immediate  context. 

2.  The  prophet,  after  describing  the  approaching  judg- 
ments, calls  on  his  countrymen  to  repent,  assuring  them 
of  the  divine  placability  and  readiness  to  forgive  (ii, 
12-17).  He  foretells  the  restoration  of  the  land  to  its 
former  fertility,  and  declares  that  Jehovah  would  still 
be  their  God  (ii,  18-26 ; comp.  Miiller,  Anrmrk.  iib.  ii,  16, 
in  Brem.  and  Verd.  Biblioth.  ii,  161). 

3.  The  of  iii,  1 in  the  Hebrew,  “afterwards," 

ii,  27  of  the  A.  A'.,  raises  us  to  a higher  level  of  vision, 
and  brings  into  view  Messianic  times  and  scenes  (comp. 
Tysclien,  Illustratio  vatuinii  Joelis  iii  [Gott.  1788]; 
Steudel,  Disq.  in  Joelis  iii  [Tilbing.  1820]).  Here,  says 
Steudel,  we  have  a Messianic  prophecy  altogether.  If 
this  prediction  has  ever  yet  been  fulfilled,  we  must  cer- 
tainly refer  the  event  to  Acts  ii.  The  best  commenta- 
tors are  agreed  upon  this.  We  must  not,  however,  in- 
terpret it  thus  to  the  exclusion  of  all  reference  to  pre- 
paratory events  under  the  earlier  dispensation,  and  still 
less  to  the  exclusion  of  later  Messianic  times.  Acts  ii 
virtually  contained  the  whole  subsequent  development. 
The  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  on  the  day  of  Pentecost 

_ was  the  c’nrapxn,  while  the  full  accomplishment  and  the 
is  allegorical,  are  explicable  only  as  being  accessory  | finai  reaiity  are  yet  to  come.  But  here  both  are  blend- 
traits  for  filling  up  the  picture  (Davidson,  Sacred  Her-  ed  in  one>  and  tlie  wi10le  passage  has  therefore  a double 


meneutics,  p.  310). 

Maurice  ( Prophets  and  Kings , p.  180)  strongly  main- 


aspect  (see  Dresde,  Proph.  Joelis  de  effusione  Sp.  S.  [ Witt. 
1782]).  The  passage  is  well  quoted  by  Peter  from  the 


figurative  interpretation  was  adopted  by  an  early  par-  ed  his  referc‘nce  to  the  end  of  the  dispensation.  The 
aplirast,  Ephrem  the  Syrian  (A.D.350),  who  supposes  expression  “all  flesh”  (Acts  ii,  17)  is  explained  by  the 
that  by  the  four  different  denominations  of  the  locusts  foUowing  clauses,  by  which  no  principle  of  distribution 


were  intended  Tiglath-pileser,  Shalmaneser,  Sennache- 
rib, and  Nebuchadnezzar.  The  Jews,  in  the  time  of 


is  meant,  but  only  that  all  classes,  without  respect  of 
persons,  will  be  the  subjects  of  the  Spirit’s  influences. 


Jerome  (,U>.  41(0),  understood  by  tbe  tirst  term  the  As-  , Au  ,Uatillction  of  rac,;Sj  t00)  „.m  be  donc  away  (c„mp. 


r appears  10  nave  mrctnatea  uetween  tne  ; the  attd  dei)0rtations  of  the  Jews  |jy  neighboring 
t»„  opinions,  though  more  mclmccl  to  the  allegorical  , merchants,  anti  sale  to  the  Macedonians  (1  JIaec.  iii, 41 ; 
vtew.  < rrohtts  applies  the  description  to  the  tt, vast,, ns  Ezek_  xxviii  13)  foUowcd  b the  sweepi,,g  away  of  the 

by  ul  and  Mialmaneser.  HoUUansen  attempts  to  unite  j neighboring  nations  (Maurice) ; in  tbe  events  accumpa- 

. , r;  ,n  ,",Wrr  a| ’"'r  ",c  ,la"f riving  the  crucifixion,  in  the  fall  of  Jerusalem,  in  the 

It, -rally  to  the  locusts  and  metaphorically  to  the  Assyr-  ; b«akit.g  up  of  all  human  polities.  But  here  again  the 
■ins.  is  snrgu  ar,  oneter.  t ra  ,i  a lostile  invasion  - jdea  incbldcs  ab  manifestations  of  judgment,  ending 
!*  " “ T1'  l;;,t  *.h‘  '“f  h»  “S1™1  of '*r80,“1  "W  j witk  the  1««.  The  whole  is  shadowed  forth  in  dim 

mini  7 'r  1°  T l!,'i"  SI1  S\  i'i  11"ln'i  < , l.tC  effects  are  . ,,u t lino,  and,  while  some  crises  are  past,  others  are  yet  to 
confined  entirclv  to  the  vegetable  productions  and  the  , ...  10  ,T  ‘ .’  , v J ■ v 

rattle.  Dr.  llengstenberg.  while  sL.glv  averse  from  I ^21  "“h  Ma“'  XXlV  a"d  EeV'  X‘X)’ 

kai  nwaidior  Tmiv  ’ “ cTP'  1”  “”r  'ill.  The  style'  of  Joel,  it  has  been  remarked,  unites 

ciieinv  ’her  mnHs°“n  i * ,(trc  a^  0 mva‘  ers*  ^ lc  , the  strength  -if  Micali  with  the  tenderness  of  Jeremiah, 
ciumn,  he  remarks,  “arc  designated  oiilv  as  north  conn-  • T • -j  „ , . . . , XT  , , . , 

, • „ | - , r ‘ • ,,  V In  vividness  of  description  lie  rivals  Nahum,  and  in  sub- 

th°  H-ity  and  maiestv  is  scarcely  inferior  to  Isaiah  and 

I ef  n , 1 , ,1  “v  " ° ',ave;  Hahakkuk  (Coi.z,  i)m.  ele  character'. poetic  Joelis  [Tub. 

tin  refnre,  no  reason  to  tlimk  exclusively  of  any  one  of  ,733]).  est  elega„s,  clarlfs,  fllslls,  fluc„Lsque . 

valde  etiam  sublimis  accr,  fervidus”  (Lowtli,  De  Sacra 
Poesi  Hebr.  Pixel,  xxi).  Many  German  divines  hold 
that  Joel  was  the  pattern  of  all  the  prophets.  Some 
say  that  Isaiah  ii,  2-4 ; Micah  iv,  1-3,  are  direct  imita- 
tions of  him.  Parts  of  the  New  Test,  also  (Rev.  ix,  2 
sq. ; xiv,  18)  are  pointed  out  as  passages  in  his  style. 

The  canonidty  of  this  book  has  never  been  called  in 
question. — Kitto;  Smith. 

IV.  Commentaries. — The  special  exegetical  helps  on 
the  book  of  Joel  as  a whole  arc  the  following,  to  the 
most  important  of  which  we  prefix  an  asterisk:  Eplirem 
Syrus,  Explanatio  (in  Syr.,  in  Opp.  v,  249) ; Hugo  a St. 
Victor,  Annotationes  (in  Opp.  i) ; Seb.  Munster,  Comment 
tarius  (Aben-Ezra’s,  Basil.  1530,  8vo) ; Luther,  Enarra - 
tio  [brief,  with  Amos  and  Obadiali]  (Argent.  1536,  8vo) ; 
also  Commentarius  (Vitemb.  1547, 4to ; both  in  German* 


them ; nor  ought  we  to  limit  the  prophecy  to  the  peo- 
ple ol  the  old  covenant.  Throughout  all  centuries  there 
is  but  one  Church  of  God  existing  in  unbroken  connec- 
tion. 1 lint  this  Church,  during  the  first  period  of  its 
existence,  was  concentrated  in  a land  into  which  hostile 
irruptions  were  made  from  the  north  was  purely  acci- 
dental. lb  make  this  circumstance  the  boundary-stone 
of  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy  were  just  as  absurd  as  if 
one  were  to  assert  that  the  threatening  of  Amos,  ‘ Bv  the 
sword  shall  all  sinners  of  my  people  die,’  has  not  been 
iuUillcd  in  those  who  perished  alter  another  manner” 
( Cfiristologg , Keith’s  translation,  iii,  1 04 ).  1 n accordance 
with  tlie  literal  (and  certainly  the  primary)  interpreta- 
tion of  the  prophecy,  we  should  render  iTHtsrrrN;  as  in 
our  A. V., “the  former  rain,”  with  Rosenin idler  and  the 
lexicographers,  rather  than  “ a (or  the)  teacher  of  right- 


JOELAH 


941 


JOHAN AN 


Jen.  1553,  4to;  and,  together  with  Sentential,  in  Opp.  iii, 
497 ; iv,  781,  821) ; Seb.  Tuscan,  Commentarius  (Colon. 
155G,  fol.) ; Topsell,  Commentarius  (London,  1556,  1613, 
4to ; also  in  Engl.  ib.  1599,  4to) ; Mercier,  Commentarius 
[on  first  five  minor  propli.]  (Paris,  s.  a.  fol. ; Lugd.  1621, 
4to) ; Genebrard,  Adnotationes  (from  Aben-Ezra  and  oth- 
ers, Paris,  1563,  4to)  ; Dr  aeon  is,  Explicatio  [with  3 1 i call 
and  Zecli.]  (Yitemb.  1565,  fol.;  and  later  separately); 
Selnecker,  Anmerkungen  (Lpz.  1578, 4to) ; Schadieus,  Sy- 
nopsis (Argent.  1588,  4to);  Matthias,  Preelectiones  (Ba- 
sil. 1590,  8vo) ; Simonis,  Joel  propheta  (Cracov.  1593, 
4to) ; Bunny,  Enarratio  (Lond.  1583, 1595,  8vo);  Bone- 
rus,  Paraphrases  (F.  ad  0. 1597,4to);  Woldcr,  Biexodus 
(Yitemb.  1605,  4to) ; Gesner,  Comment.  (Yitemb.  1614. 
8vo) ; Tarnovius,  Commentarius  (Rost.  1627,  4to)  ; Ursi- 
nns,  Commentarius  (Francf.  1641,  8vo) ; Strahl,  Erklar. 
(Wittenb.  1650,  4to);  Lensden,  Explicatio  [Rabbinical, 
includ.  Obad.]  (Ultraj.  1657,  8vo) ; De  Ycil,  Commentu- 
rius  (Par.  1676, 8vo);  *Pocock,  Commentary  (Oxf.  1691, 
fol. ; in  Latin,  Lipsia?,  1695, 4to) ; Hase,  A na lysis  (Brem. 
1697,  4to);  *Yan  Toll,  Yitlegyinye  (Utrecht,  1700,  4to); 
Schnrrmann,  Schaubiihne  (VYesel,  1700,  4to ; in  Dutch, 
ib.  1703, 4to) ; Zierold,  .4 usleyuny  [mystical]  (Francfort, 
1720, 4to);  J.  A.  Turretin,  in  his  Be  S.  S.  Interpretatione, 
p.  307-45  (cd.  Teller,  Tr.  ad  Rh.  1728,  8vo) ; Chandler, 
Commentary  (Lond.  1735, 4to)  ; Richter,  Animadversiones 
(Yitemb.  1747,  8vo) , Baumgarten,  Ausleepmy  (Halle, 
1756, 4to) ; Cramer,  Commentarius  (in  his  Scyth.  Benkm. 
Kiel  and  Hamb.  1777-8,  p.  143-245)  ; Couz,  Dissertatio, 
etc.  (Tiib.  1783, 4to) ; Btittner,  Joel  rates  (Coburg,  1784, 
8vo) ; Eekermann,  Erklaruny  (Tub.  u.  Lpz.  1786,  8vo) ; 
Justi,  Erliiuteruny  (Lpz.  1792, 8vo)  ; Wiggers,  Erklaruny 
(Gbtt.  1799, 8vo) ; Horsley,  X otes  (in  Bibl.  Crit.  ii,  390) ; 
M.  Philippson,  rrn*!riI3  [including  Ilos.]  (Dessau, 

1805,  8vo) ; Swanborg,  Xotce  (Upsala,  1806,  8vo) ; ♦Ro- 
seau) idler,  Scholia  (in  vol.  vii,  pt.  i,  Lipsise,  1827,  8vo)  ; 
Schroder,  Anmerk.  [inclnd.  other  poet,  books]  (in  Har- 
fenklange,  etc.,  Hildsh.  1827,  8vo;  also  separately,  Lpz. 
1829, 8vo);  Holzhausen,Tr«Vs«3rM»5),  etc.  (Giitting.  1829, 
8vo);  *Credner,  Erklaruny  [Rationalistic]  (Halle,  1831, 
8vo) ; *Meier,  Erklaruny  (Tiib.  1844,  8vo) ; Robinson, 
Homilies  (Lond.  1865,  8vo).  See  Prophets,  Minor. 

8.  A chief  of  the  Gadites,  resident  in  Bashau  (1  Chron. 
v,  12).  B.C.  cir.  782. 

9.  A Levite,  son  of  Uzziah  or  Azariah,  and  father  of 
Elkanah,  of  the  family  of  Kohath  (1  Chron.  vi,  36),  and 
one  of  those  who  co-operated  with  Hezekiah  in  his  res- 
toration of  the  Temple  services  (2  Chron.  xxix,  12). 
B.C.  726.  In  1 Chron.  vi,  24  he  is  called  Siiaul  by  an 
evident  error  of  transcribers. 

10.  A descendant  of  Simeon,  apparently  one  of  those 
whose  enlarging  families  compelled  them  to  emigrate 
to  the  valley  of  Gedor,  whose  aboriginal  inhabitants 
they  expelled  (1  Chron.  iv,  35).  B.C.  cir.  712. 

11.  Son  of  Ziehri,  and  privfect  of  the  Bcnjamites  res- 
ident at  Jerusalem  after  the  captivity  (Xeh.  xi,  9).  B.C. 
536. 

12.  One  of  the  “sons”  of  Nebo,-wlio  divorced  his 
Gentile  wife  after  the  return  from  Babylon  (Ezra,  x,43). 
B.C.  459. 

Joe'lah  (Heb.  Yoelah',  derivation  uncer- 
tain; Sept. ’Ion/Xd  v.  r.  Yulg.  Joelu),  one  of  the 

two  sons  of  Jeroham  of  Gedor,  mentioned  along  with  the 
brave  Benjamite  archers  and  others  who  joined  David’s 
fortunes  at  Ziklag  (1  Chron.  xii,  7).  B.C.  1055. 

Joe'zer  (Heb.  Yoe'zer,  “tr'P,  Jehovah  is  his  help ; 
Sept.  T oZadp  v.r.  ’lui^apa),  one  of  the  Korhites  who 
reinforced  David  while  at  Ziklag,  and  remained  among 
his  famous  body-guard  (1  Chron.  xii,  6).  B.C.  1055. 

Joga.  See  Hinduism  ; Yisiixu. 

Jog'behah  (Heb.  Yoyhah R23P,  only  with  H par- 
agogic,  lofty ; Sept,  'itytfiact,  hut  vxpojaav  au- 

ras in  Numb. ; Yulg.  Jeybaa),  a place  mentioned  (be- 
tween Jazer  and  Beth-nimrah)  among  the  “fenced  cities 
and  folds  for  sheep”  rebuilt  by  the  Gadites  (Numb,  xxxii, 


35).  It  lay  on  the  route  of  Gideon  when  pursuing  the 
nomadic  Midianites,  near  Nobah,  beyond  Penuel,  iu  the 
direction  of  Karkor  (Judg.  viii,  11).  These  notices  cor- 
respond sufficiently  with  the  locality  of  the  ruined  vil- 
lage YA-Jebeiha  (Robinson’s  Researches,  iii,  Append,  p. 
168),  laid  down  on  Robiuson’s  and  Zimmerman’s  maps 
on  the  edge  of  the  desert  east  of  Jcbel  el-Fukeis. 

Jogee.  See  Yogee. 

Jog'li  (Heb.  Yoyli’,  ‘‘‘blP,  exiled ; Sept.  TticXi'),  the 
father  of  Bukki,  which  latter  was  the  Danite  commis- 
sioner for  partitioning  the  land  of  Canaan  (Numb.xxxiv, 
22).  B.C.  ante  1618. 

J ogues,  or  Yugs,  is  a name  among  the  Hindus  for 
periods  of  extraordinary  length  spoken  of  in  their  myth- 
ological chronology. 

Jo'ha  (Heb.  Yocha',  Stn’P,  probably  contracted  for 
njnr,  whom  Jehovah  revives'),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  (Sept.  ‘hoaZat  v.  r.  ’lai^af.)  A person  mentioned 

as  a Tizite,  along  with  his  brother  Jediael,  the  son  of 
Shimri,  among  David’s  famous  body-guard  (1  Chron.  xi, 
45).  B.C.1046. 

2.  (Sept.  ’Iwaya  r.r.’Iiofia.)  The  last-named  among 
the  Benjamite  chiefs,  descendants  of  Beriah,  resident  at 
Jerusalem  (1  Chron.  viii,  1G).  B.C.  apparently  588  or  536. 

Joha'nan  (Heb.  Yochanan',  ■j3rp>,  a contracted 
form  of  the  name  Jejioiianan;  comp,  also  John),  the 
name  of  several  men.  See  also  Jehoiianan,  3, 4,  6. 

1.  (Sept,  ’ihjvctv  v.r.  ‘Imavav.’)  ■ The  eighth  of  the 
Gadite  braves  who  joined  David’s  band  in  the  fastness 
of  the  desert  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  xii,  1 2).  B.C.  cir.  1061. 

2.  (Sept.  ’Itoavdi'.)  One  apparently  of  the  Benja- 
niite  slingers  and  archers  who  joined  David  at  Ziklag  (1 
Chron.  xii,  4).  B.C.  1055. 

3.  (Sept,  ’iwavag  v.  r.  ’Imai'dv,  To >vdg.)  Son  of 
Azariah  and  father  of  Azariah,  liigh-priests  (1  Chron. 
vi,  9, 10,  where  perhaps  an  erroneous  repetition  of  names 
has  occurred).  He  is  thought  by  some  to  have  been 
the  same  with  Jeiioiada  (2  Chron.  xxiv,  15).  Jose- 
phus, however  (Ant.  x,  8,  6),  seems  to  call  him  Joram, 
and  the  Seder  Olam  Jehoahaz,  whom  it  places  in  the 
reign  of  Jeliosliaphat.  See  High-priest. 

4.  (Sept.  I Maveiv.)  The  oldest  son  of  king  Josiah 
(1  Chron.  iii,  15).  He  must  have  been  born  in  the  fif- 
teenth year  of  his  father’s  age,  and  he  seems  to  have 
been  of  so  feeble  a constitution  as  not  to  have  survived 
his  father.  B.C.  cir.  635-610.  See  Jeiioaiiaz,  2. 

5.  (Sept,  ’luiva,  in  Jer. ’I uiavav  and  Aojavvav ; Jo- 
sephus Grsecizes  the  name  as  John,  'Iwavvijc,  Ant.  x,  9, 
2).  The  son  of  Careali  (Kareah),  and  one  of  the  Jewish 
chiefs  who  rallied  around  Gedaliali  on  his  appointment 
as  governor  by  the  Chaklieans  (2  Kings  xxv,  23;  Jer. 
xl,  8).  It  was  lie  that  warned  Gedaliali  of  the  nefa- 
rious plans  of  Islimael,  and  offered  to  destroy  him  in 
anticipation,  but  the  unsuspecting  governor  refused  to 
listen  to  his  prudent  advice  (Jer.  xl,  13,  16).  After 
Gedaliah’s  assassination,  Jolianan  pursued  the  murderer, 
and  rescued  the  people  taken  away  by  him  as  captives 
to  the  Ammonites  (Jer.  xii,  8, 13, 15, 16).  lie  then  ap- 
plied to  Jeremiah  for  counsel  as  to  what  course  the  rem- 
nant of  the  people  should  pursue,  being  apprehensive  of 
severe  treatment  at  the  hands  of  the  Chaldaian  authori- 
ties, as  having  interfered  with  the  government  (Jer.  xlii, 
1,  8) ; but,  on  hearing  the  divine  injunction  to  remain 
in  the  land,  he  and  his  associates  violated  their  promise 
of  obedience,  and  persisted  in  retiring,  with  all  their 
families  and  effects  (earn  ing  with  them  the  prophet 
himself),  to  Tahpanes,  in  Egypt  (Jer.  xliii,  2, 4, 5),  where, 
doubtless,  they  experienced  the  threatened  punishment 
ou  the  conquest  of  that  country  likewise  by  the  Chal- 
daean  arms.  B.C.  587. 

6.  (Sept,  lojdvav.)  Son  of  Katan  (Hakkatan),  of 
the  “sons”  of  Azgad,  who  returned  with  110  males  from 
Babylon  with  Ezra  (Ezra  viii,  12).  B.C.  459. 

7.  (Sept.  Awavdv.)  A chief  priest,  son  (?  grandson) 
of  Eliashib,  named  as  last  of  those  whose  contemporaries 


942 


JOHN 


JOHANNES 


the  Levites  were  recorded  in  “ the  book  of  the  Chroni- 
cles” i N\*h.  xii,  22,23).  He  appears  to  be  the  same 
called  J ei  101 1 as  an  (in  the  text,  but  “Johanan”  in  the 
Auth.Vers.)  in  Ezra  x,  6;  also  Jonathan,  the  son  of 
Juiada  and  father  of  Jaddua,  in  Nch.  xii,  11;  comp.  22. 
B.C.  prob.  459. 

8 Sept*  'I (oavcifiS)  The  fifth  named  of  the  seven 
sons'  of  Hlioeuai,  of  the  descendants  of  Zerubbabel  (1 
Chrun.  iii,  24).  He  is  apparently  the  same  with  the 
Naih-m  mentioned  among  the  ancestry  of  Christ  (Luke 
iii,  25.  See  Strong’s  Harm.  atul  Expos,  of  the  Gosp.  p. 
16,17).  B.C.  somewhat  post  406.  See  Genealogy  of 
Christ. 

Johan'nes  (’I mavvijg,  the  Greek  form  of  the  name 
John  or  Jehohanan)  occurs  in  this  form  in  the  A.  Y.  of 
two  men  in  the  Apocrypha. 

1.  A son  of  xVcatan  (1  Esdr.  viii,  38) ; the  Johanan  of 
Ezra  viii,  12. 

2.  A “ son”  of  Bebai  (1  Esdr.  ix,  29) ; the  Jehohanan 
of  Ezra  x,  28. 

Johannites.  See  Knights  of  Malta. 


Johlsohn,  J.  Joseph,  a Jewish  scholar  of  some  re- 
nown, was  born  in  Fulda  in  1777.  Being  the  son  of  a 
rabbi,  he  was  instructed  from  his  early  youth  in  the 
language  and  literature  of  the  Old  Testament,  in  which 
he  became  a great  adept.  When  quite  young,  he 
left  his  native  place  and  went  to  Frankfort-on-the- 
Main,  where  he  engaged  in  private  tuition,  pursuing 
himself,  at  the  same  time,  an  extended  course  of  study 
in  languages  and  metaphysics.  Later  he  removed  to 
Kreuznacli,  and  became  professor  of  Hebrew,  etc.,  in  a 
public  academy,  but  was  called  back  in  1813  by  the 
government  to  the  professorial  chair  of  Hebrew  and  re- 
ligion in  the  Jewish  academy  at  Frankfort,  known  as 
the  “ Philantropin.”  Johlsohn’s  activity  in  this  once- 
renowned  capital  of  the  German  empire  fell  in  a time 
marked  in  Jewish  annals  as  a period  of  agitation.  The 
reform  movement  [see  Judaism],  which  shortly  after 
developed  more  fully,  was  just  budding,  and  he,  partak- 
ing more  or  less  of  that  spirit,  earnestly  labored  for  the 
introduction  of  sermons  in  the  vernacular,  hours  of  de- 
votion on  the  Christian  Sabbath,  etc.  To  further  en- 
courage this  awakening  of  a religious  spirit,  especially 
in  the  young,  he  published  (1)  a hymn-book  entitled 
Gesangbuchjur  Israeliten  (Frkf.  1816,  and  often,  8vo) : — 
also  (2)  a valuable  work  on  the  fundamentals  of  the  Jew- 
ish re) i;f ion,  entitled  nn  “'1'"-’,  with  an  Appendix  de- 
scribing the  manners  and  customs  of  the  Hebrews  (Frkf. 
2d  ed.  1819) : — (3)  A Chronological  History  of  the  Bible , 
in  lleb.,  with  the  moral  sayings  of  the  Scriptures,  seven 
Psalms  with  Ivimchi’s  Commentary,  a Hebrew  Chresto- 
mathy  with  notes,  and  a glossary  called  r”lbin 


(1820;  2detl.  1837); — (-1)  The  Pentateuch  translated  int 
German, with . I mutations  (1831) (5)  The  sacred  Scrip 
tores  of  the  Jews,  translated  into  German,  with  Annoto 
U nis  (of  which  only  2 vols.  were  ever  published),  vol. 

containing  Joshua,  Samuel,  and  Kings  (1836): (6)  „ 

Hi  brew  Grammar  for  Schools,  entitled  ’p’”pn  8*^3* 
forming  a second  part  to  the  new  ed.  of  the  Chrestomc 
thy  (18.J8):  (7)  .1  Hebrew  Lexicon,  giving  also  th 
syiioiiymcs,  with  an  appendix  containing  an  explanatio 
of  t he  abbreviations  used  in  the  Rabbinical  writings,  ei 
titled  C 5 - p"  (1840):  — (8)  A historical  and  dot 
mafic  Treatise  on  Circumcision  (1843).  Johlsohn  died  i 
Frankfort  June  13,  1851.  See  Stem,  Gescb.  des  Jude, 
' P’  181  “l- ; *%cin.  Zeitung  des  Judenth.  18.51,  i 
Job;  kaysorliug  (Dr.  M.),  Biblioth. jiid.  Kanzelredm 
(Berlin,  18,0),  p.  382;  Stein,  Israelii.  Yolkslehrer.  i,  14 
sq. ; 1-  ilrst,  /Lb).  Jud.  ii,  99  sq. ; Kitto,  s.  v.  (J.  11.  W 

John  (hoeivvnc,  the  ( ireek  form  of  Jehohanan;  conn 
Josephus,  Ant.  viii,  15,  2),  a common  name  among  th 
Jews  after  the  captivity. 

1.  the  Apocrypha  the  following  occur  under  th! 
rendering  in  the  A.V. : 


1.  The  father  of  Matathias,  of  the  Maccabsean  family 
(I  Macc.  ii,  1).  See  Maccabees. 

2.  The  son  of  Accos,  and  father  of  Eupolemus,  which 
latter  was  one  of  the  envoys  sent  by  Judas  Maccabaeus 
to  Home  (I  Macc.  viii,  17 ; 2 Macc.  iv,  11). 

3.  Surnamed  Caddis  (q.  v.),  the  eldest  son  of  the  same 
Matathias,  and  one  of  the  Maccabsean  brothers  (1  Macc. 
ii,  2,  Johanan ; less  correctly  Joseph  in  2 Macc.  viii,  22). 
He  had  been  sent  by  his  brother  Jonathan  on  a message 
to  the  Nabathseans,  when  he  was  taken  prisoner  by  “the 
children  of  Jambri”  (q.  v.),  from  Medeba,  and  appears  to 
have  been  put  to  death  by  them  (1  Macc.  ix,  35, 36,38). 

4.  One  of  the  persons  sent  by  the  Jew  s with  a petition 
to  the  Syrian  general  Lysias  (2  Macc.  xi,  17). 

5.  The  son  of  Simon  Maccabaus  (1  Macc.  xiii,  53;  xvi, 
1, 2, 9, 19, 21, 23),  better  known  by  the  epithet  Hyucanus 
(q.  v.). 

II.  In  the  New  Testament  the  following  are  all  that  are 
mentioned,  besides  John  the  Apostle  and  John  the 
Baptist,  who  are  noticed  separately  below : 

1.  One  of  the  high-priest’s  family,  who,  with  Annas 
and  Caiaphas,  sat  in  judgment  upon  the  apostles  Peter 
and  John  for  their  cure  of  the  lame  man  and  preaching 
in  the  Temple  (Acts  iv,  6),  A.D.  29.  Lightfoot  identifies 
him  with  Ii.  Johanan  Ben-Zachai,  who  lived  forty  years 
before  the  destruction  of  the  Temple,  and  wras  president 
ol  the  great  synagogue  after  its  removal  to  Jabne,  or 
Jamnia  (Lightfoot,  Cent.  Chor.  Matth.  praef  ch.  15;  see 
also  Selden,  lie,  Synedriis,  ii,  ch.  xv).  Grotius  merely 
says  he  wras  known  to  Rabbinical  writers  as  “John  the 
priest”  ( Comm . in  A ct.  iv). — Smith. 

2.  The  Hebrew  name  of  the  evangelist  Mark  (q.  v.), 
who  throughout  the  narrative  of  the  Acts  is  designated 
by  the  name  by  which  he  was  known  among  his  coun- 
trymen (Acts  xii,  12, 25 ; xiii,  5, 13 ; xv,  37). 

III.  In  Josephus  the  following  are  the  most  notewor- 
thy of  this  name,  besides  the  above  and  John  of  Gis- 
ciiala,  whom  we  notice  separately  below : 

1.  A high-priest  (son  of  Judas,  and  grandson  of  Elia- 
shib),  who  slew  his  brother  Jesus  in  the  Temple,  thereby 
provoking  the  vengeance  of  Bagoses,  the  Persian  vice- 
roy under  Artaxerxes  {Ant.  xi,7, 1).  He  corresponds  to 
the  Jonathan  (q.  v.),  son  of  Joiada,  of  Neb.  xii,  10, 11. 
See  High-priest. 

2.  Son  of  Dorcas,  sent  by  the  Sicarii  with  ten  execu- 
tioners to  murder  the  persons  taken  into  custody  by 
John  of  Gischala  on  his  arrival  in  Jerusalem  (Josephus, 
liar,  iv,  3,  5). 

3.  Son  of  Sosas,  one  of  the  four  popular  generals  of  the 
lduma?ans  who  marched  to  Jerusalem  in  aid  of  the  zeal- 
ots at  the  instance  of  John  of  Gischala  (Josephus,  iVar, 
iv,  4,  2).  He  was  possibly  the  same  ivith  John  the  Es- 
sene,  spoken  of  as  commander  of  the  topareliy  of  Sham- 
ma  at  an  earlier  stage  of  the  war  (ib.  ii,  20,4:  comp,  iii, 
2, 1).  He  was  mortally  wounded  by  a dart  during  the 
final  siege  (ib.  v,  6, 5). 

John  (’[warper)  the  Apostle,  and  brother  of  the 
apostle  James  “the  greater”  (Matt,  iv,  21;  x, 2;  Mark 
i,  19;  iii,  17;  x,  35;  Luke  v,  10;  viii,  3;  etc.). 

I.  Personal  History. — 1.  Early  Life. — It  is  probable 
that  he  was  born  at  Bethsaida,  on  the  Lake  of  Galilee. 
The  general  impression  left  on  us  by  the  Gospel  narra- 
tive is  that  he  was  younger  than  the  brother  whose 
name  commonly  precedes  his  (Matt,  iv,  21 ; x,  3;  xvii, 
I,  etc.;  but  compare  Luke  ix,  28,  where  the  order  is  in- 
verted in  most  codices),  younger  than  his  friend  Peter, 
possibly  also  than  his  Master.  The  life  which  was  pro- 
tracted to  the  time  of  Trajan  (Eusebius,  II.  E.  iii,  23, 
following  Ireiupus)  can  hardly  have  begun  before  the 
year  B.C.  4 of  the  Dionysian  .-era.  The  Gospels  give 
us  the  name  of  his  father  Zebedaus  (Matt,  iv,  21)  and 
his  mother  Salome  (comp.  Matt  xxvii,  56  with  Mark 
xv,  40 ; xvi,  1).  Of  the  former  we  know  nothing  more. 
See  Zebedee.  The  traditions  of  the  fourth  century 
(Epiphan.  iii,  Ilrer.  78)  make  the  latter  the  daughter 
of  Joseph  by  his  first  wife,  and  consequently  half-sister 
to  our  Lord.  By  some  recent  critics  she  has  been  iden- 


JOHN 


943 


JOHN 


tified  with  the  sister  of  Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus,  in 
John  xix,  25  (Wieseler,  in  iStud.  u.  Krit . 1840,  p.  648). 
Ewald  (Gesch.  Israels,  v.  171)  adopts  Wieseler’ s conjec- 
ture, and  connects  it  with  his  own  hypothesis,  that  the 
sons  of  Zebedee,  and  our  Lord,  as  well  as  the  Baptist, 
were  of  the  tribe  of  Levi.  On  the  other  hand,  more  so- 
ber critics,  like  Neander  ( Pjhinz . u.  Leit.  p.  609  [4th  ed.]) 
and  Liicke  ( Johannes , i,  9),  reject  both  the  tradition  and 
the  conjecture.  See  Salome.  They  lived,  it  may  be 
inferred  from  John  i,  44,  in  or  near  the  same  town  as 
those  who  were  afterwards  the  companions  and  part- 
ners of  their  children.  See  Bethsaida.  There,  on  the 
shores  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  the  apostle  and  his  brother 
grew  up.  The  mention  of  the  “ hired  servants”  (Mark 
i,  20),  of  his  mother’s  “substance”  (fl7ro  rwv  vv ap\ov- 
tmv,  Luke  viii,  3),  of  “his  own  house”  (ra  idia,  John 
xix,  27),  implies  a position  removed  by  at  least  some 
steps  from  absolute  poverty.  The  fact  that  the  apostle 
was  known  to  the  high-priest  Caiaphas,  as  that  knowl- 
edge was  hardly  likely  to  have  begun  after  he  had 
avowed  himself  the  disciple  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  sug- 
gests the  probability  of  some  early  intimacy  between 
the  two  men  or  their  families.  The  name  which  the 
parents  gave  to  their  younger  child  was  too  common  to 
serve  as  the  ground  of  any  special  inference ; but  it  de- 
serves notice  (1)  that  the  name  appears  among  the  kin- 
dred of  Caiaphas  (Acts  iv,  6) ; (2)  that  it  was  given  to 
a priestly  child,  the  son  of  Zacliarias  (Luke  i,  13),  as  the 
embodiment  and  symbol  of  Messianic  hopes.  The  fre- 
quent occurrence  of  the  name  at  this  period,  unconnect- 
ed as  it  was  with  any  of  the  great  deeds  of  the  old  heroic 
days  of  Israel,  is  indeed  in  itself  significant  as  a sign  of 
that  yearning  and  expectation  which  then  characterized 
not  only  the  more  faithful  and  devout  (Luke  ii,  25, 38), but 
the  whole  people.  The  prominence  given  to  it  by  the 
wonders  connected  with  the  birth  of  the  future  Baptist 
may  have  imparted  a meaning  to  it  for  the  parents  of  the 
future  evangelist  which  it  would  not  otherwise  have 
had.  Of  the  character  of  Zebedteus  we  have  hardly  the 
slightest  trace.  He  interposes  no  refusal  when  his  sons 
are  called  on  to  leave  him  (Matt,  iv,  21).  After  this  ho 
disappears  from  the  scene  of  the  Gospel  history,  and  we 
are  led  to  infer  that  he  had  died  before  his  wife  followed 
her  children  in  their  work  of  ministration.  Her  char- 
acter meets  us  as  presenting  the  same  marked  features 
as  those  which  were  conspicuous  in  her  son.  From  her, 
who  followed  Jesus  and  ministered  to  him  of  her  sub- 
stance (Luke  viii,  3),  who  sought  for  her  two  sons  that 
they  might  sit,  one  on  his  right  hand,  the  other  on  his 
left,  in  his  kingdom  (Matt,  xx,  20),  he  might  well  derive 
his  strong  affections,  his  capacity  for  giving  and  receiv- 
ing love,  his  eagerness  for  the  speedy  manifestation  of 
the  Messiah’s  kingdom.  The  early  years  of  the  apostle 
we  may  believe  to  have  passed  under  this  influence. 
He  would  be  trained  in  all  that  constituted  the  ordinary 
education  of  Jewish  boyhood.  Though  not  taught  in 
the  schools  of  Jerusalem,  and  therefore,  in  later  life,  lia- 
ble to  the  reproach  of  having  no  recognised  position  as  a 
teacher,  no  Rabbinical  education  (Acts  iv,  13),  he  would 
yet  be  taught  to  read  the  Law  and  observe  its  precepts, 
to  feed  on  the  writings  of  the  prophets  with  the  feeling 
that  their  accomplishment  was  not  far  off. 

2.  Incidents  recorded  of  him  in  the  New  Testament. — 
The  ordinary  life  of  the  fisherman  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee 
was  at  last  broken  in  upon  by  the  news  that  a prophet 
had  once  more  appeared.  The  voice  of  John  the  Bap- 
tist was  heard  in  the  wilderness  of  Judaea,  and  the  pub- 
licans, peasants,  soldiers,  and  fishermen  of  Galilee  gath- 
ered round  him.  Among  these  were  the  two  sons  of 
Zebedasus  and  their  friends.  With  them  perhaps  was 
One  whom  as  yet  they  knew  not.  They  heard,  it  may 
be,  of  John’s  protests  against  the  vices  of  their  own  ruler 
^against  the  hypocrisy  of  Pharisees  ,and  Scribes.  But 
they  heard  also,  it  is  clear,  words  which  spoke  to  them 
of  their  own  sins — of  their  own  need  of  a deliverer. 
The  words  “ Behold  the  Lamb  of  God  that  taketh  away 
the  sins”  imply  that  those  who  heard  them  would  enter 


into  the  blessedness  of  which#  they  spoke.  Assuming 
that  the  unnamed  disciple  of  John  i,  37-40  was  the 
evangelist  himself,  we  are  led  to  think  of  that  meeting, 
of  the  lengthened  interview  that  followed  it  as  the 
starting-point  of  the  entire  devotion  of  heart  and  soul 
which  lasted  through  his  whole  life.  Then  Jesus  loved 
him  as  he  loved  all  earnest  seekers  after  righteousness 
and  truth  (comp.  Mark  x,  21).  The  words  of  that  even- 
ing, though  unrecorded,  were  mighty  in  their  effect. 
The  disciples  (John  apparently  among  them)  followed 
their  new  teacher  to  Galilee  (John  i,  44),  were  with  him, 
as  such,  at  the  marriage-feast  of  Cana  (ii,  2),  journeyed 
with  him  to  Capernaum,  and  thence  to  Jerusalem  (ii, 
12,  22),  came  back  through  Samaria  (iv,  8),  and  then, 
for  some  uncertain  interval  of  time,  returned  to  their 
former  occupations.  The  uncertainty  which  hangs  over 
the  narratives  of  Matt,  iv,  18  and  Luke  v,  1-11  (comp, 
the  arguments  for  and  against  their  relating  to  the  same 
events  in  Lampe,  Comment,  ad  Joann,  i,  20),  leaves  us 
in  doubt  whether  they  received  a special  call  to  become 
“fishers  of  men”  once  only  or  twice.  In  either  case 
they  gave  up  the  employment  of  their  life  and  went  to 
do  a work  like  it,  and  j'et  unlike,  in  God’s  spiritual  king- 
dom. From  this  time  they  take  their  place  among  the 
company  of  disciples.  Only  here  and  there  are  there 
traces  of  individual  character,  of  special  turning-points 
in  their  lives.  Soon  they  find  themselves  in  the  num- 
ber of  the  Twelve  who  are  chosen,  not  as  disciples  only, 
but  as  their  Lord’s  delegates — representatives — apostles. 
In  all  the  lists  of  the  Twelve  those  four  names  of  the 
sons  of  Jonah  and  Zebedajus  stand  foremost.  . They 
come  within  the  innermost  circle  of  their  Lord’s  friends, 
and  are  as  the  ticXtieTwv  iicXfKrorfpoi.  The  three,  Pe- 
ter, James,  and  John,  are  with  him  when  none  else  are, 
in  the  chamber  of  death  (Mark  v,  37),  in  the  glory  of 
the  transfiguration  (Matt,  xvii,  1),  when  he  forewarns 
them  of  the  destruction  of  the  Holy  City’'  (Mark  xiii,  3, 
Andrew,  in  this  instance,  with  thcrr\  in  the  agony  of 
Getlisemane.  Peter  is  throughout  the  leader  of  that 
band ; to  John  belongs  the  yet  more  memorable  distinc- 
tion of  being  the  disciple  whom  Jesus  loved.  This  love 
is  returned  with  a more  single,  undivided  heart  by  him 
than  by  any  other.  If  Peter  is  the  fltXoxpiaroc,  John 
is  the  ptXttjaovg  (Grotius,  Prolegom.  in  Joann.).  Some 
striking  facts  indicate  why  this  was  so;  what  the  char- 
acter was  which  was  thus  worthy  of  the  love  of  Jesus 
of  Nazareth.  They  hardly  sustain  the  popular  notion, 
fostered  by  the  received  types  of  Christian  art,  of  a na- 
ture gentle,  yielding,  feminine.  The  name  Boanerges 
(Mark  iii,  17)  implies  a vehemence,  zeal,  intensity, 
which  gave  to  those  who  had  it  the  might  of  Sons  of 
Thunder.  That  spirit  broke  out  once  and  again  when 
they  joined  their  mother  in  asking  for  the  highest  places 
in  the  kingdom  of  their  Master,  and  declared  that  they 
were  ready  to  face  the  dark  terrors  of  the  cup  that  he 
drank,  and  the  baptism  that  he  was  baptized  with  (Matt, 
xx,  20-24;  Mark  x,  35-41)  — when  they  rebuked  one 
who  cast  out  devils  in  their  Lord’s  name  because  he  was 
not  one  of  their  company  (Luke  ix,  49) — when  they 
sought  to  call  down  fire  from  heaven  upon  a village  of 
the  Samaritans  (Luke  ix,  54).  About  this  time  Salome, 
as  if  her  husband  had  died,  takes  her  place  among  the 
women  who  followed  Jesus  in  Galilee  (Luke  viii,  3), 
ministering  to  him  of  their  substance,  and  went  up  with 
him  in  his  last  journey  to  Jerusalem  (Luke  xxiii,  55). 
Through  her,  we  may  well  believe,  John  first  came  to 
know  Mary  Magdalene,  whose  character  he  depicts  with 
such  a life-like  touch,  and  that  other  Mary,  to  whom  he 
was  afterwards  to  stand  in  so  close  and  special  a rela- 
tion. The  fulness  of  his  narrative  of  what  the  other 
evangelists  omit  (John  xi)  leads  to  the  conclusion  that 
he  was  united  also  by  some  special  ties  of  intimacy  to 
the  family  of  Bethany.  It  is  not  necessary  to  dwell  at 
length  on  the  familiar  history  of  the  Last  Supper.  What 
is  characteristic  is  that  he  is  there,  as  ever,  the  disciple 
whom  Jesus  loved;  and,  as  the  chosen  and  favored 
friend,  reclines  at  table  with  his  head  upon  his  Master’s 


JOHN 


944 


JOHN 


breast  (John  xiii,  23).  Jo  him  the  eager  Peter-they 
hail  been  sent  together  to  prepare  the  supper  (Luke  xxn, 
8 )— makes  signs  of  impatient  questioning  that  he  should 
ask  what  was  not  likely  to  be  answered  if  it  came  from 
anv  other  (John  xiii,  24).  As  they  go  out  to  the  Mount 
of  Olives  the  chosen  three  are  nearest  to  their  Master. 
They  only  are  within  sight  or  hearing  of  the  conflict  in 
Gethsemane  (Matt,  xxvi,  37).  When  the  betrayal  is 
accomplished,  Peter  ami  John,  after  the  lirst  moment  of 
confusion,  follow  afar  off,  while  the  others  simply  seek 
safety  in  a hasty  flight  (John  xviii,  15).  The  personal 
acquaintance  which  existed  between  John  and  Caiapbas 
enabled  him  to  gain  access  both  for  himself  and  Peter, 
but  the  latter  remains  in  the  porch,  with  the  officers  and 
servants,  while  John  himself  apparently  is  admitted  to 
the  council-chamber,  and  follows  Jesus  thence,  even  to 
the  pnetorium  of  the  Homan  procurator  (John  xviii,  1G, 
Ifl,  2<S).  Thence,  as  if  the  desire  to  see  the  end,  and  the 
love  which  was  stronger  than  death,  sustained  him 
through  all  the  terrors  and  sorrows  of  that  day,  he  fol- 
lowed—accompanied  probably  by  his  own  mother,  Mary 
the  mother  of  Jesus,  and  Mary  Magdalene — to  the  place 
of  crucifixion.  The  teacher  who  had  been  to  him  as  a 
brother  leaves  to  him  a brother’s  duty.  He  is  to  be  as 
a son  to  the  mother  who  is  left  desolate  (John  xix,  2G- 
27).  The  Sabbath  that  followed  was  spent,  it  would 
appear,  in  the  same  company,  lie  receives  Peter,  in 
spite  of  his  denial,  on  the  old  terms  of  friendship.  It  is 
to  them  that  Mary  Magdalene  first  runs  with  the  tidings 
of  the  emptied  sepulchre  (John  xx,  2) ; they  are  the 
first  to  go  together  to  see  what  the  strange  words  meant. 
Not  without  some  bearing  on  their  respective  characters 
is  the  fact  that  John  is  the  most  impetuous,  running  on 
most  eagerly  to  the  rock-tomb:  Peter,  the  least  restrain- 
ed by  awe,  the  first  to  enter  in. and  look  (John  xx,  4-6). 
For  at  least  eight  days  they  continued  in  Jerusalem 
(John  xx,  26).  Then,  in  the  interval  between  the  res- 
urrection and  the  ascension,  we  find  them  still  together 
on  the  Sea  of  Galilee  (John  xxi,  l),  as  though  they 
would  calm  the  eager  suspense  of  that  period  of  expec- 
tation by  a return  to  their  old  calling  and  their  old  fa- 
miliar haunts.  Here,  too,  there  is  a characteristic  dif- 
ference. John  is  the  first  to  recognise  in  the  dim  form 
seen  in  the  morning  twilight  the  presence  of  his  risen 
Lord;  Peter  the  first  to  plunge  into  the  water  and  swim 
towards  the  shore  where  he  stood  calling  to  them  (John 
xxi,  7 ).  The  last  words  of  the  Gospel  reveal  to  ns  the 
deep  affection  which  united  the  two  friends.  It  is  not 
enough  for  Peter  to  know  his  own  future.  That  at  once 
suggests  the  question— “And  what  shall  this  man  do?” 
(John  xxi,  21).  The  history  of  the  Acts  shows  the 
same  union.  They  are  of  course  together  at  the  ascen- 
sion and  on  the  day  of  Pentecost.  Together  they  enter 
the  Temple  as  worshippers  (Acts  iii,  1),  and  protest 
against  the  threats  of  the  Sanhedrim  (iv,  13).  They 
arc  fellow-workers  in  the  first  great  step  of  the  Church’s 
expansion.  The  apostle  whose  wrath  had  been  roused 
by  the  unbelief  of  the  Samaritans  overcomes  his  nation- 
al exclusiveness,  and  receives  them  as  his  brethren  (viii, 
11).  The  persecution  which  was  pushed  on  by  Saul  of 
Tarsus  did  not  drive  him  or  any  of  the  apostles  from 
their  post  (viii,  1).  When  the  persecutor  came  back  as 
the  convert,  lie,  it  is  true,  did  not  see  him  (Gal.  i,  19), 
hut  this,  of  course,  does  not  involve  the  inference  that  he 
hail  left  Jerusalem.  The  sharper  though  slim  ter  perse- 
cution which  followed  under  Herod  Agrippa  brought  a 
great  sorrow  to  him  in  the  martyrdom  of  his  brother 
(Acts  xii,  2).  Ilis  friend  was  driven  to  seek  safety  in 
flight.  Fifteen  years  after  Paul’s  lirst  visit  he  was  still 
at  Jerusalem,  and  helped  to  take  part  in  the  great  set- 
tlement of  the  controversy  between  the  Jewish  and  the 
Gentile  l Christians  (Acts  xv,  G).  His  position  and  rep- 
utation there  were  those  of  one  ranking  among  the  chief 
“ P'Uars”  of  the  < ’lmreh  (Gal.  ii,  9).  Of  the  work  of  the 
apostle  during  this  period  we  have  hardly  the  slightest 
trace.  There  may  have  been  special  rails  to  mission- 
work  like  that  which  drew  him  to  Samaria.  There 


may  have  been  the  work  of  teaching,  organizing,  ex- 
horting the  churches  of  Judina.  His  fulfilment  of  the 
solemn  charge  intrusted  to  him  may  have  led  him  to  a 
life  of  loving  and  reverent  thought  rather  than  to  one 
of  conspicuous  activity.  We  may,  at  all  events,  feel 
sure  that  it  was  a time  in  which  the  natural  elements 
of  his  character,  with  ail  their  fiery  energy,  became 
purified  and  mellowed,  rising  step  by  step  to  that  high 
serenity  which  we  find  perfected  in  the  dosing  portion 
of  his  fife.  Here,  too,  we  may,  without  much  hesitation, 
accept  the  traditions  of  the  Church  as  recording  a his- 
toric fact  when  they  ascribe  to  him  a life  of  celibacy 
(Tertull.  De  Monoy.  c.  xiii).  The  absence  of  his  name 
from  1 Cor.  ix,  5 tends  to  the  same  conclusion.  It  har- 
monizes with  all  we  know  of  his  character  to  think  of 
his  heart  as  so  absorbed  in  the  higher  and  diviner  love 
that  there  was  no  room  left  for  the  lower  and  rlie  human. 

8.  Sequel  of  his  Career.— The  traditions  of  a later  age 
come  in,  with  more  or  less  show  oflikeliliood,  to  fill  up 
the  great  gap  which  separates  the  apostle  of  Jerusalem 
from  the  bishop  of  Ephesus.  It  was  a natural  conjec- 
ture to  suppose  that  he  remained  m Judsea  till  the  death 
of  the  Virgin  released  him  from  his  trust.  When  this 
took  place  we  can  only  conjecture.  The  hypothesis  of 
Baronius  and  Tillemont,  that  the  Virgin  accompanied 
him  to  Ephesus,  has  not  even  the  authority  of  tradition 
(Lampe,  i,  51).  There  are  no  signs  of  his  being  at  Je- 
rusalem at  the  time  of  Paul’s  last  visit  (Acts  xxi).  The 
pastoral  epistles  set.  aside  the  notion  that  he  had  come 
to  Ephesus  before  the  work  of  the  apostle  of  the  Gen- 
tiles was  brought  to  its  conclusion.  Out  of  many  con- 
tradictory statements,  fixing  his  departure  under  Claud- 
ius, or  Nero,  or  as  late  even  as  Domitian,  we  have  hardly 
any  data  for  doing  more  than  rejecting  the  two  ex- 
tremes. Lampe  fixes  A.D.  GG,  when  Jerusalem  was  be- 
sieged by  the  Roman  forces  under  Cestius,  as  the  most 
probable  date.  Nor  is  it  certain  that  his  work  as  an 
apostle  was  transferred  at  once  from  Jerusalem  to  Eph- 
esus. A tradition  current  in  the  time  of  Augustine 
( (Invest . Evany,  ii,  19),  and  embodied  in  some  MSS.  of 
the  New  Test.,  represented  the  1st  Epistle  of  John  as 
addressed  to  the  Parthians,  and  so  far  implied  that  his 
apostolic  work  had  brought  him  into  contact  with  them. 
In  the  earlier  tradition  which  made  the  apostles  for- 
mally partition  out  the  world  known  to  them,  Parthia 
falls  to  the  lot  of  Thomas,  while  John  receives  Procon- 
sular Asia  (Eusebius,  Hist.  Eecl.  iii,  1).  In  one  of  the 
legends  connected  with  the  Apostles’  Creed,  Peter  con- 
tributes the  first  article,  John  the  second  ; but  the  tradi- 
tion appears  with  great  variations  as  to  time  and  order 
(comp.  Pseudo-August.  Serm.  ccxl,  ccxli).  When  the 
form  of  the  aged  disciple  meets  us  again,  in  the  twilight 
of  the  apostolic  age,  we  are  still  left  in  great  doubt  as  to 
the  extent  of  his  work  and  the  circumstances  of  lus  out- 
ward life.  Assuming  the  authorship  of  the  Epistles  and 
the  Revelation  to  be  bis,  the  facts  which  the  New  Test, 
writings  assert  or  imply  are:  (1)  that,  having  come  to 
Ephesus,  some  persecution,  local  or  general,  drove  him 
to  Patinos  (Rev.  i,  9);  (2)  that  the  seven  churches,  of 
which  Asia  was  the  centre,  were  special  objects  of  his 
solicitude  (Rev.  i,  11);  that  in  his  work  he  had  to  en- 
counter men  who  denied  the  truth  on  which  his  faith 
rested  (1  John  iv,  1 ; 2 John  7),  and  others  who,  with  a 
railing  and  malignant  temper,  disputed  his  authority  (3 
John  9, 10).  If  to  this  we  add  that  he  must  have  out- 
lived all,  or  nearly  all,  of  those  who  bad  been  the  friends 
and  companions  even  of  his  maturer  years — that  this 
lingering  age  gave  strength  to  an  old  imagination  that 
his  Lord  bad  promised  him  immortality  (.John  xxi,  23) 
— that,  as  if  remembering  the  actual  words  which  had 
been  thus  perverted,  the  longing  of  his  soul  gathered 
itself  up  in  the  cry,  “Even  so,  come,  Lord  Jesus”  (Rev. 
xxii,  20) — that  from  some  who  spoke  with  authority  he 
received  a solemn  attestation  of  the  confidence  they  re- 
posed in  hint  (John  xxi,  24) — we  have  stated  all  that 
has  any  claim  to  the  character  of  historical  truth.  The 
picture  which  tradition  tills  up  for  us  has  the  merit  of 


3011N 


945 


JOHN 


being  full  and  vivid,  but  it  blends  together,  without 
much  regard  to  harmony,  things  probable  and  improba- 
ble. He  is  shipwrecked  off  Ephesus  (Simeon  Metaph. 
In  vita  Johann,  c.  2 ; Lampe,  i,  47),  and  arrives  there  in 
time  to  cheek  the  progress  of  the  heresies  which  sprang 
up  after  1 'aid's  departure.  Then,  or  at  a later  period, 
he  numbers  among  his  disciples  men  like  Folycarp,  Pa- 
pias,  Ignatius  (Jerome,  De  vir.  Must.  c.  xvii).  In  the 
persecution  under  Domitian  he  is  taken  to  Rome,  and 
there,  by  his  boldness,  though  not  by  death,  gains  the 
crown  of  martyrdom.  The  boiling  oil  into  which  he  is 
thrown  has  no  power  to  hurt  him  (Tertull.  Ik  Prescript. 
c.  xxxvi).  The  scene  of  the  supposed  miracle  was 
outside  the  Porta  Latina,  and  hence  the  Western  Church 
commemorates  it  by  the  special  festival  of  “St.  John 
Port.  Latin.’’  on  May  Gtli.  He  is  then  sent  to  labor  in 
the  mines,  and  Patinos  is  the  place  of  his  exile  (Victo- 
rinus,  In  A poc.  ix ; Lampe,  i,  G6).  The  accession  of 
Nerva  frees  him  from  danger,  and  lie  returns  to  Ephesus. 
There  he  settles  the  canon  of  the  Gospel  history  by  for- 
mally attesting  the  truth  of  the  first  three  Gospels,  and 
writing  his  own  to  supply  what  they  left  wanting  (Eu-  ' 
seb.  II.  E.  iii,  24).  The  elders  of  the  Church  are  gath- 
ered together,  and  he,  as  by  a sudden  inspiration,  begins 
with  the  wonderful  opening,  “ In  the  beginning  was  the 
word”  (Jerome,  De  vir.  Must.  29).  Heresies  continue  to 
show  themselves,  but  he  meets  them  with  the  strongest 
possible  protest.  He  refuses  to  pass  under  the  same 
roof  (that  of  the  public  baths  of  Ephesus)  with  their 
foremost  leader,  lest  the  house  should  fall  down  on  them 
and  crush  them  (Iren.  iii. 3 ; Euseb.  II.  E.  iii,  28;  iv,  14). 
Eusebius  and  Ireweus  make  Cerinthus  the  heretic.  In 
Epiplianius  (liter,  xxx,  c.  24)  Ebion  is  the  hero  of  the 
story.  To  modem  feelings  the  anecdote  may  seem  at 
variance  with  the  character  of  the  apostle  of  love,  but  it  j 
is  hardly  more  than  the  development  in  act  of  the  prin- 
ciple of  2 John  10.  To  the  mind  of  Epiphanius  there 
was  a difficulty  of  another  kind : nothing  less  than  a 
special  inspiration  could  account  for  such  a departure 
from  an  ascetic  life  as  going  to  a bath  at  all.  Through 
his  agency  the  great  temple  of  Artemis  is  at  last  reft  of 
its  magnificence,  and  even  (!)  levelled  with  the  ground 
(Cyril.  Alex.  Or  at.  de  Mar.Yirg. ; Nicephor.  II.  E.  ii,  42 ; 
Lampe,  i,  90).  He  introduces  and  perpetuates  the  Jew- 
ish mode  of  celebrating  the  Easter  feast  (Eusebius,  II.  E. 
iii,  3) — at  Ephesus,  if  not  before,  as  one  who  was  a true 
priest  of  the  Lord,  hearing  on  his  brow  the  plate  of  gold 
(7rirco\on;  compare  Suieer.  Thes.  s.  v.),  with  the  sacred 
name  engraved  on  it,  which  was  the  badge  of  the  Jew- 
ish pontiff  (Polvcrates,  in  Eusebius,  II.  E.  iii,  31 ; v,  24). 
In  strange  contrast  with  this  ideal  exaltation,  a later 
tradition  tells  how  the  old  man  used  to  find  pleasure  in 
the  playfulness  and  fondness  of  a favorite  bird,  and  de- 
fended himself  against  the  charge  of  unworthy  trifling 
by  the  familiar  apologue  of  the  bow  that  must  some- 
times be  unbent  (Cassian.  Collat.  xxiv,  c.  2).  More  true 
to  the  N.-T.  character  of  the  apostle  is  the  story,  told 
with  so  much  power  and  beauty  by  Clement  of  Alexan- 
dria (jQuis  dives,  c.42),  of  his  special  and  loving  interest 
in  the  younger  members  of  his  flock — of  his  eagerness 
and  courage  in  the  attempt  to  rescue  one  of  them  who 
had  fallen  into  evil  courses.  The  scene  of  the  old  and 
loving  man,  standing  face  to  face  with  the  outlaw-chief 
whom,  in  days  gone  bv,  he  had  baptized,  and  winning 
him  to  repentance,  is  one  which  we  could  gladly  look  on 
as  belonging  to  his  actual  life — part  of  a story  which  is, 
in  Clement’s  words,  o v pvOog  ctWa  Aoyof.  Not  less 
beautiful  is  that  other  scene  which  comes  before  us  as 
the  last  act  of  his  life.  When  all  capacity  to  work  and 
teach  is  gone — when  there  is  no  strength  even  to  stand — 
the  spirit  still  retains  its  power  to  love,  and  the  lips  are 
still  opened  to  repeat,  without  change  and  variation,  the 
command  which  summed  up  all  his  Master’s  will,  “ Little 
children,  love  one  another”  (Jerome,  in  Gal.  vi).  Other 
stories,  more  apocryphal  and  less  interesting,  we  may 
pass  over  rapidly.  That  he  put  forth  his  power  to  raise 
the  dead  to  life  (Euseb.  II.  E.  v.  18) ; that  he  drank  the 
IV.— O o o 


cup  of  hemlock  which  was  intended  to  cause  his  death, 
and  suffered  no  harm  from  it  (Pseudo-August.  Soliloq.; 
Isidor.  Hispal.  De  Morte  Sand.  c.  73)  ; that  when  he  felt 
his  death  approaching  he  gave  orders  for  the  construction 
of  his  own  sepulchre,  and  when  it  was  finished  calmly 
laid  himself  down  in  it  and  died  (Augustin.  Trad,  in 
Joann,  cxxiv) ; that  after  his  interment  there  were 
strange  movements  in  the  earth  that  covered  him  ( ib .)  ; 
that  when  the  tomb  was  subsequently  opened  it.  was 
found  empty  (Nieeph.  II.  E.  ii,  42) ; that  he  was  reserved 
to  reappear  again  in  conflict  with  the  personal  anti- 
christ in  the  last  days  (Suieer,  Thes.  s.  v.  ’Imdi'vgg) — 
these  traditions,  for  the  most  part,  indicate  little  else 
than  the  uncritical  spirit  of  the  age  in  which  they  passed 
current.  The  very  time  of  his  death  lies  within  the  re- 
gion of  conjecture  rather  than  of  history,  and  the  dates 
that  have  been  assigned  for  it  range  from  A.D.  89  to  A.D. 
120  (Lampe,  i,  92) Smith. 

See  Perionii  I it  re  A postal,  p.  95  sq. ; Edzard,  De  Joan- 
ne Cerinthi  preesentiam  fugiente  (Viteb.  1732) ; Schwoll- 
mann,  Comment,  de  Jo.  in  Pathmo  exilio  (Halle,  1757) ; 
Hering,  Yon  d.  S chide  d.  A post.  Joh.  zu  Ephesus  (Bresl. 
1774);  Bishop,  Life , etc.,  of  St.  John  (London,  1827); 
Webb,  The  Beloved  Disciple  (Loiul.  1848) ; Krummaeher 
(in  Life  of  Cornelius,  etc.) ; Lee,  Life  of  St.John  (N.Y. 

1854)  ; Macfarlane,  The  Disciple  whom  Jesus  loved  ( Lond. 

1855)  ; Kienkel,  her  Apostel  Johannes  (Berlin,  3871). 

II.  The  most  prominent  traits  of  John's  character  ap- 
pear to  have  been  an  ardent  temperament  and  a delicacy 
of  sentiment.  These  combined  to  produce  that  devoted 
attachment  to  his  Master  which  leads  him  to  detail  all 
his  discourses  and  vindicate  his  character  on  all  occa- 
sions. Yet,  with  all  his  mildness  anti  amiability  of  tem- 
per— doubtless,  in  part,  the  fruit  of  divine  grace,  for  we 
trace  also  a degree  of  selfishness  in  Mark  ix,38;  x.35 — 
he  was  not  altogether  feminine  in  dispositicn,  but  pos- 
sessed an  energy  and  force  iff  mind  which  gave  him  the 
title  of  one  of  the  “sons  of  thunder”  (Mark  iii,  17),  burst- 
ing forth  in  vehement  language  in  his  writings,  and  on 
one  occasion  calling  even  for  rebuke  (Luke  ix,  54.  55). 
See  Boaneuges.  It  was  these  traits  of  mind  that  en- 
abled him  to  take  so  profound  and  comprehensive  a vit  w 
of  the  nature  and  office  of  the  incarnate  Son  of  God,  evi- 
dent in  all  his  writings,  anti  especially  developed  in  the 
introduction  to  his  Gospel. 

See  Von  Melle,  Entu  urf  einer  Lebensbesehreibung  und 
Charakteristik  d.  A post.  Joh.  (Heidelb.  1808);  Niemcyer, 
Charakteristik  der  Bibel,  i,  303  sq. ; Wernsdorf,  Meletema 
de  Elogio  jilior.ioniiriti  (Helmst.  1755);  Obbar,  Ik  Tem- 
peramento  Joa.  cholerieo  (Gbtt.  1738) ; F.  Trench,  Life 
and  Character  of  John  the  Evangelist  (London,  1850); 
Stanley,  Sermons  and  Essays  on  the  Apost.  Age,  seim.  iv ; 
W.  Grimm,  in  Erscli  und  Gruber’s  Encycl.  sect,  ii,  pt.  22, 
p.  1 sq. ; Ad.  Monod,  Sermons  ( La  Parole  vivante)  (Par. 
1858) ; Pressense,  A postolic  JEra , p.  415. 

JOHN,  GOSPEL  OP’.  The  fourth  in  order  of  the 
evangelical  narratives  in  nearly  all  editions,  though  a 
few  MSS.  place  it  immediately  after  Matthew.  See 
Gospels. 

I.  Genuineness. — There  is  no  reason  to  doubt  that  the 
fourth  Gospel  was  from  the  beginning  received  in  the 
Church  as  the  production  of  the  apostle  whose  name  it 
bears.  We  may  decline  to  accept  as  a testimony  for 
this  the  statement  at  the  close  of  the  Gospel  itself  (xxi, 
24),  for  this  can  have  the  force  of  an  independent  testi- 
mony tally  on  the  supposition  that  the  passage  was  add- 
ed by  another  hand;  and  though  there  is  an  evident 
allusion  in  2 Pet.  i,  14  to  what  is  recorded  in  John  xxi, 
18,  19,  yet,  as  that  saying  of  the  Lord  was  one  which 
tradition  would  be  sure  to  send  forth  among  the  breth- 
ren (compare  vor.  23),  it  cannot  be  inferred  from  Peter’s 
allusion  to  it  that  it  was  then  put  on  record  as  we  have 
it  in  the  Gospel.  We  may  also  admit  that  the  passages 
in  the  writings  of  the  apostolic  fathers  which  have  been 
adduced  as  evincing,  on  their  part,  acquaintance  with 
this  Gospel  are  not  decisive.  The  passages  usually  cited 
for  this  purpose  are  Barnab.  Ep.  v,  vi,  xii  (comp.  John 


JOIIX 


946 


JOHN 


iii,  14) ; Herm.  Past.  Sim.  ix,  12  (compare  John  x,  7.  9 ; 
xiv,  6);  Ignat.  Ad  Magnes.  vii  (comp.  John  xii,  49;  x, 
30;  xiv,  11).  See  Larduer,  Works,  vol.  ii.  All  of  them 
m(]y  owe  their  accordance  with  John’s  statements  to  the 
influence  of  true  tradition,  or  to  the  necessary  resem- 
blance of  the  just  utterance  of  Christian  thought  and 
fueling  by  different  men;  though  in  three  other  pas- 
sages cited  from  Ignatius  (.Id  Horn,  vii;  Ad  Trail,  viii ; 
and  A <1  Philail.  vii)  the  coincidence  of  the  first  two  with 
John  vi,  32  sq.,  and  of  the  last  with  John  iii,  8,  is  al- 
most too  close  to  be  accounted  for  in  this  way  (Ebrard, 
Eeang.  Joh.  p.  102;  llothe,  A nj tinge  der  Christl.  Kirche, 
p.  715).  1 Jut  Eusebius  attests  that  this  Gospel  was 

among  the  books  universally  received  in  the  Church 
( Hist.  /Cedes,  iii,  25);  and  it  cannot  be  doubted  that  it 
formed  part  of  the  canon  of  the  churches,  both  of  the 
East  and  West,  before  the  end  of  the  2d  century.  See 
Canon.  It  is  in  the  1’esliito, and  in  the  Muratori  Frag- 
ment. It  is  quoted  or  referred  to  by  Justin  Martyr 
(Apol.  i,  52,  61;  ii,  G;  e.  Tri/ph.  105,  etc.;  compare  Ols- 
hausen,  Edit  be  it  der  Kan.  Erv.  p.  304  sq.) , by  Tatian 
(Orut.  ad  Gntcos,  4,  13,  19),  who,  indeed,  composed  a I 
Iliatessaron  (Eusebius,  Hist.  EccLiv,  29 ; Tlieod.  Hceret.  \ 
Fab.  i,  20),  in  preparing  which  he  must  have  had  this 
gospel  before  him;  in  the  Epistle  of  the  Church  at  Vi- 
enne and  Lyons  (Enseb.  v,  1);  by  VI elito  of  Sardes  (see 
I’itra,  Spinier/.  Solmense , i,  Prolegom.  p.  5,  Paris,  1852); 
by  Athcnagoras  (Ley.  pro  Christ.  10);  by  Apollinaris 
(Frag.  Chron.  Paseh.  p.  14,  ed.  Dindorf) ; by  Polycratcs, 
bishop  of  Ephesus  (Enseb.  Hist.  Ecel.x , 24);  and  in  the 
Clementine  llomilies  (xix,  22,  cd.  Drcssel,  1853),  in  such 
a way  that  not  only  is  its  existence  proved,  but  evidence 
is  afforded  of  the  esteem  in  which  it  was  held  as  canon-  j 
ical  from  the  middle  of  the  2d  century.  Still  more  pro-  1 
cise  is  the  testimony  of  Theophilus,  bishop  of  Antioch,  I 
who  not  only  composed  a Harmony  of  the  four  evange- 
lists ( Jerome,  He  riris  Illust.  25;  Ep.  151,  ad  Algasiam), 
but  in  an  extant  work  (ud . 1 utol.  ii,  22)  expressly  quotes 
John  l,  1 as  part  of  holy  Scripture,  and  as  the  produc- 
tion of  the  apostle,  whom  he  ranks  among  the  -kviv - 
parotpbpot.  More  important  still  is  the  testimony  of 
Iroiueus  ( liar,  iii,  11,3,  p.  218,  ed.  Grabe),  both  because  j 
of  his  acquaintance  in  early  youth  with  Polycarp,  and  l 
localise  of  the  distinctness  and  confidence  with  which  he  ' 
asserts  the  Johanncan  origin  of  this  Gospel.  See  Ihe- 
N.Kfs.  To  these  testimonies  may  be  added  that  of  Cel- 
sus,  the  enemy  of  the  Christians,  who,  in  preparing  his 
attack  upon  them,  evidently  had  the  four  canonical  Gos- 
pels before  him,  and  of  whose  citations  from  them  some 
are  undoubtedly  from  that  of  John  (compare  Olshausen, 
ut  sup.  p.  319,  355;  Liiekc,  Comment,  i, 68  sq.,  3d  edit); 
which  shows  that,  at  the  time  when  he  wrote,  this  Gos- 
pel must  have  been  in  general  acceptance  by  the  Chris- 
tians as  canonical.  The  heretic  Marcion,  also,  in  reject- 
ing this  Gospel  on  dogmatical  grounds,  is  a witness  to 
the  fact  that  its  canonical  authority  was  generally  held 
by  the  Christians  (Tertidl.  c.  Marriott,  iv,  5;  lie  Came 
Christi ).^  That  the  Gospel  was  recognised  as  canonical 
by  the  Valent inians,  one  of  the  most  important  sects  of 
the  2d  century,  is  placed  beyond  doubt  by  the  state- 
ment of  Ireiueus  (Hwr.  iii,  1 1 ),  and  by  the  fact  that  it  is 
quoted  by  Ptoleraams,  a disciple  of  Valentinus  ( Epiphan. 
Hrrr.  xxxiii,  3),  and  was  commented  on  bv  Heracleon, 
another  of  his  disciples,  both  of  whom  lived  about  the 
middle  of  the  2d  century.  That  Valentinus  himself  ; 
knew  and  used  the  book  is  rendered  probable  bv  this,  i 
and  by  the  statement  of  Tertullian  (He  Parser.  '/Irrret.  j 
38),  that  Valentinus  accepted  the  Biblical  canon  entire*  | 
though  he  perverted  its  meaning;  and  this  probabilitv 
is  raised  to  certainty  by  the  fact  that,  in  the  recently 
discovered  work  of  llippolytus,  Valentinus  is  found  twice 
i P/tilasoph.xi , 33, 34,  ed.  Miller)  citing  the  phrase  6 <tp- 
\mv  tov  Korrpov  rovrou,  as  applied  to  the  devil,  which 
occurs  only  in  John’s  Gospel,  and  repeatedly  there  (xii, 
•M  ; xiv,  30;  xvi,  11);  and  also  quoting  the  saying,  John  I 
x,  , as  the  word  of  ( -hrist.  From  the  same  source  also 
2‘>  P-  ‘-J2,  242)  we  learn  that  Basilidcs  was  ac-  I 


quainted  with  John’s  Gospel,  and  cited  it;  and  this 
brings  us  up  to  the  beginning  of  tlie  2d  century,  within 
a short  time  of  the  apostle’s  death. 

This  concurrence  of  external  testimony  is  the  more 
noticeable  as  there  are  certain  peculiarities  in  tlie  fourth 
Gospel  which  would  have  thrown  suspicion  on  its  genu- 
ineness had  not  that  been  placed  beyond  doubt  by  the 
knowledge  which  tlie  Christians  had  of  its  having  pro- 
ceeded from  the  pen  of  John.  Such  are  the  promi- 
nence given  to  the  extra-Galilscan  ministry  of  our  Lord ; 
the  record  of  remarkable  miracles,  such  as  the  healing 
of  the  impotent  man  (ch.  v),  of  the  blind  man  (eh.  ix), 
the  raising  from  the  dead  of  Lazarus,  and  others,  omit- 
ted by  the  other  evangelists;  the  insertion  of  so  many 
discourses  of  Jesus,  of  which  no  hint  is  found  in  the 
other  Gospels,  as  well  as  the  omission  of  remarkable 
facts  in  the  evangelic  history,  especially  the  institution 
of  the  supper  and  the  agony  in  the  garden;  and  certain 
important  apparent  discrepancies  between  this  and  the 
synoptical  Gospels.  In  perfect  keeping  with  this  as- 
sumption, also,  is  the  entire  tone,  spirit,  and  character 
of  tlie  Gospel ; it  is  emphatically,  as  Clement  of  Alexan- 
dria calls  it,  the  Tn’tvpariKov  evayyiXtov,  and  breathes 
throughout  the  spirit  which  was  characteristic  of  the 
disciple  whom  Jesus  loved.”  The  work  is  evidently 
the  production  of  one  who  w'as,  as  the  writer  professes 
to  be  (i,  14  [comp.  1 John  i,  1 ; iv,  14] ; xix,  35;  xxi, 
24),  an  eye-witness  of  what  he  narrates;  and  there  is  a 
simplicity,  a naturalness,  and  a vividness  in  the  whole 
narrative  which  no  forger  of  a later  age  could  have  at- 
tained— which  the  very  consciousness  of  composing 
what  was  intended  to  be  an  imposition  would  have  pre- 
cluded. The  remarkable  manner  also  in  which  the 
writer  avoids  introducing  John  by  name  (xiii,  23;  xix, 
16;  xx,  2,  3,  4;  xxi,  7,  24)  affords  additional  evidence 
that  John  himself  was  the  writer.  It  has  been  urged 
also  by  some  (Bleek,  Ebrard,  Credner)  that  tlie  use  of 
the  simple  ’Iujcivviiq,  without  in  any  case  the  addition 
of  the  usual  6 Bn7rntm)t;,  to  designate  the  Baptist,  in 
this  Gospel,  is  an  evidence  of  its  being  the  production 
of  John  the  apostle,  on  the  ground  that,  “ supposing  the 
apostle  not  to  be  the  wrriter,  one  would  expect  that  he 
should,  like  the  Synoptists,  discriminate  the  Baptist 
from  the  apostle  by  this  epithet,  whereas,  supposing  the 
apostle  himself  to  be  the  writer,  he  would  feel  less 
prompted  to  do  so”  (Bleek,  Einleit.  in  das  N.  T.  p.  148); 
but  to  this  much  weight  cannot  be  attached;  for,  though 
it  is  probable  that  a writer,  taking  his  materials  from 
tlie  other  evangelists,  -would  have  designated  John  as 
they  do,  and  though,  as  Meyer  suggests  (Krit.  Exeget. 
Comm.,  Einleit  ting  in  das  Ev.  des  Johannes,  p.  23),  it  is 
probable  that  John,  who  had  been  a disciple  of  the  Bap- 
tist, might  prefer  speaking  of  him  by  the  name  by 
which  he  had  been  accustomed  to  designate  him  during 
their  personal  intercourse  rather  than  by  his  historical 
name,  yet,  as  -we  cannot  tell  what  considerations  might 
have  occurred  to  a forger  writing  in  the  apostle’s  name 
to  induce  him  to  drop  the  distinctive  epithet,  it  is  hard- 
ly competent  for  us  to  accept  this  omission  as  a proof 
that  the  wrork  is  not  the  production  of  a forger.  It  is 
needless  to  press  every  minute  particular  into  the  ser- 
vice of  the  argument  for  the  genuineness  of  this  Gospel ; 
it  is  impossible  to  read  it  without  feeling  that  it  is  Jo- 
liannean  in  all  its  parts,  and  that,  bad  it  been  the  pro- 
duction of  any  other  than  the  apostle,  that  other  must, 
in  mind,  spirit,  affection,  circumstances,  and  character, 
have  been  a second  John. 

Attempts  to  impugn  the  genuineness  of  this  Gospel 
have  been  comparatively  recent  ( Guerike,  Einleit  ung,  p. 
303).  The  work  of  Bretschneider,  entitled  Probabifia 
de  Evangelti  et  Epp.  Johannis  apost.  indole  et  origine 
(Lips.  1820),  is  the  earliest  formal  attack  of  any  impor- 
tance made  upon  it;  and  this,  the  author  has  himself 
assured  ms,  was  made  by  him  with  a view  to  exciting 
anew  and  extending  inquiry  into  the  genuineness  of 
the  Joliannean  writings,  an  end  which,  he  adds,  has 
been  gained,  so  that  the  doubts  he  suggested  may  be 


JOHN 


947 


JOHN 


regarded  as  discharged  ( Dogmatik , i,  268, 3d  ed.).  Since 
that  work  appeared,  the  claims  of  the  Gospel  have  been 
opposed  by  Strauss  in  his  Leben  Jesu;  by  Weisse  in  his 
Evangelische  Geschichte ; by  Liitzelberger  (Die  Kirch* 
liche  Tradition  iib.  d.  A post.  Joh.  Lpz.  1848,  and  in  many 
other  forms  since)  ; by  Banr  (Krit,  Untersuch.  iiber  die 
Kanonischen  Evang.) ; by  Hilgenfelcl  (Das  Evang.  mid 
die  Briefe  Joh.  nach  ihrem  Lehrbegr.  dargestellt,  Halle, 
1849),  and  by  others.  But  the  reasons  advanced  by 
these  writers  have  so  little  force,  and  have  been  so  thor- 
oughly replied  to,  that  even  in  Germany  the  general 
opinion  has  reverted  to  the  ancient  and  catholic  belief 
in  respect  of  the  authorship  of  the  fourth  Gospel.  See 
Tholuck,  Glaubu'iirdigkeit  dev  Evangel.  Gesch. ; Ebrard, 
Kritik  d. Evangel.  Geschichte  (Ziir.  1850, 2d  ed.);  Ewald, 
Jahrbuch , iii,  146;  v,  178;  Meyer,  Kritik.  Exeg.  Comm. 
ii,  Th.  2 Abt.  (Gott.  1856,  3d  edit.) ; Bleek,  Einl.  in  das 
N.  T.  (Berlin,  1862) ; Davidson,  Introduction  to  the  New 
Test,  i,  233  sq.;  Schaff,  Church  History  ( Apostolic  Age), 
§ 105.  The  importance  of  the  fourth  Gospel  as  a proof 
of  the  divine  character  of  Jesus  Christ  led  to  this  spe- 
cial assault  on  its  genuineness  by  the  nationalists  of  the 
Tubingen  school  and  their  imitators  elsewhere,  but 
without  shaking  the  convictions  of  the  Church  at  large. 
See  Jesus  Christ.  For  further  details  of  the  contro- 
versy, see  Fisher,  Supernat.  Origin  of  Christianity  (new 
edit.  N.  Y.  1870)  ; Pressense,  A postal.  Age  (N.  V.  1871), 
p.  509  sq.  See  Rationalism.  The  most  important 
other  express  treatises  in  opposition  to  the  authenticity 
of  John’s  Gospel  are  those  of  Bruno  Bauer  (Brcm.  1840, 
Berl.  1850),  Zeller  (Jahrb.  1845  sq.),  Kostlin  (ib.  1853), 
Volkmar  (in  several  works  and  arts,  in  Germ,  journals), 
Seholten  (Leid.  1864,  etc.),  Matthes  (ib.  1867),  Tayler 
(Loud.  1867);  in  favor,  Stein  (Brandenb.  1822),  Crome 
(Lpzg.  1824),  Ilauft*  (Nurnb.  1831,  and  in  the  Stud,  und 
Krit.  1846,  1849),  Weitzel  (ib.  1849),  Mayer  (Sehaffh. 
1854),  Schneider  (Berl.  1854),  Tischendorf  (Lpzg.  1865 
and  since),  Kiggenbach  (Basel,  1866),  Witticher  (Elberf. 
1869),  Pfeiffer  (St.  Gall.  1870),  Row  (in  the  Journal  of 
Sacred  Lit.  1865,  1866,  etc.),  Clarke  (in  the  Christian 
Examiner,  1868) ; see  also  the  Brit,  and  Ear.  Er.  Rev. 
July,  1861,  p.  553 ; Westminster  Rev . Ap.  1865,  p.  192. 

III.  Integrity. — Certain  portions  of  this  Gospel  have 
been  regarded  as  interpolations  or  later  additions,  even 
by  those  who  accept  the  Gospel  as  a whole  as  the  work 
of  John.  One  of  these  is  the  closing  part  of  verse  2, 
from  beStx optvwv,  and  the  whole  of  ver.  4,  in  regard  to 
which  the  critical  authorities  fluctuate,  and  which  con- 
tain statements  that  give  a legendary  aspect  to  the  nar- 
rative, such  as  belongs  to  no  other  of  the  miracles  re- 
lated in  the  Gospels.  Both  are  rejected  by  Tischendorf, 
but  retained  by  Lachmann  ; and  the  same  diversity  of 
judgment  appears  among  interpreters,  some  rejecting 
both  passages  (Liicke,  Tholuck,  Olshausen),  others  re- 
taining both  (Bruckner),  others  rejecting  ver.  4,  but  re- 
taining verse  2 (Ewald),  while  some  leave  the  whole  in 
doubt  (De  Wette). 

Another  doubtful  portion  is  the  section  relating  to  the 
woman  taken  in  adultery  (vii,  53-viii,  11).  This  is 
regarded  as  an  interpolation  because  of  the  deficiency 
of  critical  evidence  in  its  favor  (see  Tischendorf  or  Al- 
ford, ad  loe.),  and  because  of  reasons  founded  on  the  pas- 
sage itself,  viz.  the  apparently  forced  way  in  which  it 
is  connected  with  what  precedes  by  means  of  vii,  53 ; 
the  interruption  caused  by  it  to  the  course  of  the  narra- 
tive, the  words  in  viii,  12  being  evidently  in  continua- 
tion of  what  precedes  this  section ; the  alleged  going  of 
Jesus  to  the  Mount  of  Olives  and  return  to  Jerusalem, 
which  would  place  this  occurrence  in  the  last  residence 
of  onr  Lord  in  Jerusalem  (Luke  xxi,  37);  the  absence 
of  the  characteristic  usage  of  the  oiV,  which  John  so 
constantly  introduces  into  his  narratives,  and  for  which 
we  have  in  this  section  Si,  used  as  John  generally  uses 
ovv ; and  the  presence  of  the  expressions  opSpor,  7rdc 
6 Xaog , KaSiaag  idtSaaictv  avrovg,  oi  ypappartig  icai 
oi  ipapiaaioi,  impevtiv,  dvapdpTrjrog,  KctraXtiTTtoSai, 
and  Karaicpiveiv,  which  are  foreign  to  John’s  style.  On 


I the  other  side,  it  is  urged  that  the  section  contains,  as 
\ Calvin  says,  “ Nihil  apostolico  spiritu  indignuni,”  that 
it  has  no 'appearance  of  a later  legend,  but  bears  every 
trace  of  an  original  account  of  a very  probable  fact,  and 
that  it  has  a considerable  amount  of  diplomatic  evidence 
in  its  favor.  The  question  is  one  which  hardly  admits 
of  a decided  answer.  The  preponderance  of  evidence  is 
undoubtedly  against  the  Johannean  origin  of  the  sec- 
tion, and  it  has  consequently  been  regarded  as  an  inter- 
polation by  the  great  majority  of  critics  and  interpret- 
. ers,  including  among  the  latter  Calvin,  Beza,  Tittmann, 
j Tholuck,  Olshausen,  Liicke,  and  Luthardt,  as  well  as 
Grotius,  De  Wette,  Paulus,  and  Ewald.  At  the  same 
time,  if  it  did  not  form  part  of  the  original  Gospel,  it  is 
difticidt  to  account  for  its  being  at  so  early  a period  in- 
serted in  it.  From  a passage  in  Eusebius  (Hist.  Eccl. 
iii,  39)  some  have  concluded  that  Tapias  inserted  it  from 
: the  Gospel  according  to  the  Hebrews;  but  it  is  not  cer- 
I tain  that  it  is  to  this  section  that  the  words  of  Eusebius 
i refer,  nor  is  it  certain  that  he  meant  to  say  that  Tapias 
inserted  the  story  he  refers  to  in  the  Gospel.  See  Adul- 
tery, vol.  i,  p.  87. 

More  important  than  either  of  these  portions  is  chap, 
xxi,  which  is  by  many  regarded  as  the  addition  of  a 
later  hand  after  the  apostle’s  death.  This  opinion  rests 
wholly  on  internal  grounds,  for  there  is  no  evidence 
that  the  Gospel  was  ever  known  in  the  Church  without 
’this  chapter.  At  first  sight  it  certainly  appears  as  if 
the  original  work  ended  with  ch.  xx,  and  that  ch.  xxi 
was  a later  addition,  but  whether  by  the  apostle  him- 
self or  by  some  other  is  open  to  question.  The  absence 
of  any  trace  of  the  Gospel  having  ever  existed  without 
it  must  be  allowed  to  afford  strong  primer  facie  evidence 
of  its  having  been  added  by  the  author  himself;  still 
this  is  not  conclusive,  for  the  addition  may  have  been 
1 made  by  one  of  his  friends  or  disciples  before  the  work 
j was  in  circulation.  Grotius,  who  thinks  it  was  made 
by  the  elders  at  Ephesus,  argues  against  its  genuineness, 
j especially  from  ver.  24 ; but,  though  the  language  there 
has  certainly  the  appearance  of  being  rather  that  of 
others  than  that  of  the  party  himself  to  whom  it  refers, 
still  it  is  not  impossible  that  John  may  have  referred  to 
himself  in  the  third  person,  as  he  does,  for  instance,  in 
xix,  35;  and  as  for  the  use  of  the  pi.  oiSapiv,  that  may 
be  accounted  for  by  his  tacitly  joining  his  readers  with 
himself,  just  as  he  assumes  their  presence  in  xix,  35. 
There  is  more  difficulty  in  accepting  ver.  25  as  genuine, 
for  such  a hyperbolical  mode  of  expression  does  not  seem 
to  comport  with  the  simplicity  and  sincerity  of  John; 
but  there  seems  to  be  no  valid  reason  for  calling  into 
doubt  any  other  part  of  the  chapter. 

IV.  Design. — At  the  close  of  the  Gospel  the  apostle 
has  himself  stated  his  design  in  writing  it  thus:  “These 
are  written  that  ye  might  believe  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  and  that,  believing,  ye  might 
have  life  through  his  name”  (xx,  31).  Taken  in  the 
general,  this  may  be  said  to  be  the  design  of  all  the 
evangelical  narratives,  for  all  of  them  are  intended  to 
produce  the  conviction  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  the 
Messiah  promised  to  the  fathers,  and  so  to  exhibit  him 
in  his  saving  power  that  men  believing  on  him  might 
enjoy  that  life  which  lie  had  come  to  bestow.  We  must 
seek,  therefore,  John’s  specific  design  either  in  some  spe- 
cial occasion  which  he  sought  to  meet,  or  in  some  pe- 
culiarity in  his  mode  of  presenting  the  claims  of  Jesus, 
by  which  not  merely  his  Messiahship  should  be  evinced, 
but  the  higher  aspect  of  his  person,  and  the  spiritual 
effects  of  his  working,  should  be  prominently  exhibited. 
Trobably  both  of  these  concurred  in  the  apostle’s  design; 
and  we  shall  best  conceive  his  purpose  by  neither,  on 
the  one  hand,  ascribing  to  him  a merely  historical,  nor, 
on  the  other,  a purely  dogmatical  design.  It  is  an  old 
and  still  prevalent  opinion  that  John  wrote  his  Gospel 
to  supply  the  omissions  of  the  other  three ; but  no  such 
impression  is  conveyed  by  the  Gospel  itself,  which  is  as 
far  as  possible  from  having  the  appearance  of  a mere 
scries  of  supplemental  notes  to  previously  existing  writ- 


JOHN 


948 


JOHN 


in^s-  indeed  if  this  had  been  the  apostle’s  purpose,  it  of  which  is  introductory  to  the  other.  The  former  (ch. 
cannot  be  said  that  he  has  in  any  adequate  way  fulfilled  xiii-xvii)  presents  to  us  our  Lord  in  the  retirement  of 
it  Nor  is  there  anv  ground  for  believing  that  it  was  a1  private  life,  in  his  intercourse  with  his  immediate  fol- 
volemical  object  which  chiefly  prompted  him  to  write  lowers,  to  whom  he  pours  out  his  soul  in  loving  counsel, 
this  Gospel  though  such  a suggestion  has  often  been  warning,  and  promise,  m the  prospect  of  his  departure 
made  Thus  Irenams  (7/ier.iii,  11,1)  says  that  the  Gos-  from  them ; and  in  communion  with  his  heavenly  Fa- 
pel  was  written  against  the  errors  ofCerinthus.  Jerome  ther,  with  whom,  as  one  who  had  finished  the  work  he 
\l)e  vir.  Illust.  9)° adds  the  Kbionites;  and  later  writers  had  received  to  do,  he  intercedes  for  those  whose  re- 
have  maintained  that  the  Gnostics  or  the  Docetse  are  demption  from  sin  and  evil  is  the  coveted  recompense 
the  parties  against  whom  the  polemic  of  the  apostle  is  of  his  obedience.  To  this  succeeds  the  account  of  the 
bore  directed"  All  this,  however,  is  mere  supposition.  Passion,  and  the  appearances  of  Christ  to  his  disciples 
Doubtless  in  what  John  has  written  there  is  that  which  after  his  resurrection  (ch.  xviii-xxi),  which  forms  the 
furnishes  a full  refutation  of  all  Ebionitisli,  Gnostic,  and  other  part  of  the  second  portion  of  the  book.  See  the 
Docetic  heresy;  but  that  to  confute  these  was  the  design 
of  the  apostlej  as  these  writers  affirm,  cannot  be  proved. 

Sec  Gnostics.  At  the  same  time,  though  he  may  have 
had  no  intention  of  formally  confuting  any  existing  her- 
ersv,  it  is  more  than  probable  that  he  was  stimulated  to 


seek  by  means  of  this  record  to  counteract  certain  ten- 
dencies which  he  saw  rising  in  the  Church,  and  by  which 
the  followers  of  Christ  might  he  seduced  from  that  sim- 
ple faith  in  him  by  which  alone  the  true  life  could  be 
enjoyed.  Still  this  must  he  regarded,  at  the  utmost,  as 
furnishing  only  the  occasion,  not  the  design,  of  his  writ- 
ing. The  latter  is  to  lie  sought  in  the  effect  which  this 
Gospel  is  fitted  to  produce  on  the  mind  of  the  reader  in 


minute  analysis  of  Lampe  in  his  Comment .,  and  a briefer 
one  in  Westcott,  Introd.  to  Study  of  the  Gospels , p.  281  sq. 

The  greater  part  of  the  book  is  occupied  with  the  dis- 
courses of  our  Lord,  the  plan  of  the  evangelist  being  ob- 
viously to  bring  the  reader  as  much  as  possible  into 
personal  contact  with  Jesus,  and  to  make  the  latter  his 
own  expositor.  Regarding  the  discourses  thus  reported, 
the  question  has  arisen,  How  far  are  they  to  be  accept- 
ed as  an  exact  report  of  what  Jesus  uttered?  and  in  re- 
ply to  this,  three  opinions  have  been  advanced : 1.  That 
both  in  substance  and  in  form  we  have  them  as  they 
came  from  the  lips  of  Christ;  2.  That  in  substance  they 
present  what  Christ  littered,  but  that  the  form  in  which 


regard  to  the  claims  of  Jesus  as  the  divine  Redeemer, ; they  appear  is  due  to  the  evangelist ; and,  3.  That  they 
the  source  of  light  and  life  to  darkened  and  perishing  are  not  the  discourses  of  Christ  in  any  proper  sense,  hut 
humanity.  With  this  view  John  presents  him  to  us  as  | only  speeches  put  in  his  mouth  by  the  evangelist  to  ex- 
ile tabernacled  among  men,  and  especially  as  he  taught  | press  what  the  latter  conceived  to  be  a just  representa- 
when  occasion  called  forth  the  deeper  revelations  which  ; tion  of  his  doctrine.  Of  these  views  the  last  has  found 
he,  as  the  Word  who  had  come  forth  from  the  invisible  adherents  only  among  a few  of  the  sceptical  school ; it 
God  to  reveal  unto  men  the  Father,  had  to  communi-  is  without  the  slightest  authority  from  the  book  itself, 


cate.  John’s  main  design  is  a theological  one;  a con- 
viction of  which  doubtless  led  to  his  receiving  in  the 
primitive  Church  the  title  tear  i£ox>'iv  of  0£o\oyoe. 


is  irreconcilable  with  the  simplicity  and  earnestness  of 
the  writer,  is  foreign  to  the  habits  and  notions  of  the 
class  to  which  the  evangelist  belongs,  and  is  contradict- 


ut  the  historical  character  of  his  writing  must  also  be  | ed  by  the  frequent  explanations  which  he  introduces  of 
acknowledged.  As  one  who  had  been  privileged  to  the  sense  in  which  he  understood  what  he  reports  (comp, 
‘•company"  with  Jesus,  he  seeks  to  present  him  to  us  as  45, 19.  21 , vii,  38,  39;  xii,  32,  33,  etc.),  by  the  brief  no- 
lle really  appeared  among  men,  in  very  deed  a partaker  tices,  which  evince  an  actual  reminiscence  of  the  scenes 
of  their  nature,  yet,  under  that  nature,  veiling  a higher,  and  circumstances  amid  which  the  discourse  was  deliv- 
wliich  ever  and  anon  broke  forth  in  manifestation,  so  ered  (e.  g.  xiv,  31),  and  by  the  prophetic  announcements 
that  those  around  him  '•beheld  his  glory  as  the  glory  j of  his  impending  sufferings  and  death  ascribed  to  the 
of  the  Only  Ucgottcn  of  the  Father”  (i,  14).  " There  is  j Saviour,  which  are  couched  in  language  such  as  he 
here  no  history  of  Jesus  and  his  teaching  after  the  man-  might  naturally  use,  such  as  accounts  for  those  to  whom 
ner  of  the  other  evangelists;  hut  there  is,  in  historical  he  spoke,  even  his  disciples,  not  understanding  his  mean- 
f»mi,  a representation  of  the  Christian  faith,  in  relation  j ing,  hut  such  as  it  is  utterly  incredible  that  one  not  dc- 
to  the  person  of  Christ,  as  its  central  point,  and  in  this  ( sirous  of  reporting  his  very  words  should,  writing  after 
representation  there  is  a picture,  on  the  one  hand,  of  the  | the  fulfilment  of  these  predictions,  impute  to  him  (comp, 
antagonism  of  the  world  to  the  truth  revealed  in  him,  I vii,  33-36;  viii,  21,  22;  x,  17-20;  xii.  23-36;  xiv,  1-4, 
and  on  the  other  of  the  spiritual  blessedness  of  the  few  18,  28;  xvi,  16,  19,  etc.).  Some  of  these  considerations 
v io  )ield  themselves  to  him  as  the  Light  of  Life”  are  of  weight  also  as  against  the  second  of  the  opinions 
( ‘cuss,  iwh.  der  lied.  Sch.  d.  A.  T.  p.  204).  As  John  above  stated;  for,  if  John  sought  merelv  to  give  the 
doubtless  had  the  other  Gospels  before  him,  without  for-  substance  of  the  Saviour’s  teaching  in  his  own  words, 
ma  \ designing  to  supplement  them,  lie  would  naturally  why  clothe  predictions,  the  meaning  of  which  at  the 
eu  arg<  more  particularly  upon  those  portions  which  time  of  his  writing  he  perfectly  understood,  in  obscure 
they  had  left  untouched, or  passed  over  more  briefly.  and  difficult  phraseology?  Why  especially  impute  to 
•i  • i <\>>l  IC  *xOSPcl  begins  with  a prologue,  in  the  speaker  language  of  which  he  feels  it  necessarv  to 

v m i ie  aut  lor  presents  the  great  theme  ol  which  his  give  an  explanation,  instead  of  at  once  putting  the  in- 
MiUseqiiciit  narrative  is  to  furnish  the  detailed  illustra-  telligihle  statement  in  his  discourse?  Undoubtedly  the 
t ii'1 . ie.,  1,e^.°",cf  l">nnramm<‘  of  his  history,”  as  impression  which  one  gets  from  the  narrative  is  that 
las  ea  c<  i , and  which  another  lias  compared  to  John  means  the  discourses  he  ascribes  to  Jesus  to  be  rc- 
“ T J?  a.,nu8.,cal  ^'Position  in  which  the  lead-  eeived  as  faithful  reports  of  what  he  actually  uttered; 

■ 1 • H *,Kce  lri  cx  Passed  fb  1-5).  The  histor-  and  this  is  confirmed  when  one  compares  his  report  of 

cal  exposition  begins  with  verse  6,  and  the  rest  of  the  John  the  Baptist’s  ' - ' * 

nook  mav  tie  mvulml  into  o r , „ 


solemn  consecration  to  it  by  God,  to  its  close  in  ascribes^ 

:UUu:pnrtl,,‘VVC  h.ave  thp.  “Saviour  Pel  and  in  his  Epistles,  as  betrays  in  the  former  the 


the  Passion  Week. 


s own  style,  both  in  this  Gos- 


lirescntn.i  i.,  >,  ■ o • ,•  ' i"-1  rqiisues,  as  oeiravs  m tne  iorme 

L a “cachet  5„'!'  I"  <»  lund,  not  of  a faithful  reporter,  hut  of  cue  who  gives  in 

cated  bv  sif-ns  mil  w i*  ’ W "i*80  nilShl<m  1S  authenti-  the  manner  natural  to  himself  the  substance  of  what  his 
Sue  VSIm  LTSr1^  - 86  d0Ct"nCS’  trul>'  Master  111  thw  there  is  some  force,  which  is 

limits  of  human  snecnlnf  i”*  t lc  narrow  hut  partially  met  bv  the  suggestion  that  John  was  so 

JX  bv  a ZSZHm  CaTheerroP;  "'Cd  imbnc‘1  "ith  ,hc  of  Christ,  so  in. 

(ch.  xiii-vth  imv  , , ) <'0"'1  P"rtlon  formed  by  his  doctrine,  and  so  filled  bv  his  spirit,  that 

0 “V  1x5  dl' lnt°  two  llart3'  th=  one  bio  own  manner  of  thought  and  utterance  became  the 


JOHN- 


940 


JOHN 


same  as  that  of  Christ,  and  he  insensibly  wrote  and 
spoke  in  the  style  of  his  Lord.  Reuss  objects  to  this 
that  on  this  supposition  the  style  of  Jesus  “must  have 
been  a very  uniform  and  sharply-defined  one,  and  such 
as  excludes  the  very  different  style  ascribed  to  him  by 
the  synoptists”  ( Gesch . der  II.  S.  des  N.  T.  p.  203).  But 
the  facts  here  are  overstated;  the  style  of  our  Lord’s 
discourses  in  John  is  by  no  means  perfectly  uniform,  nor 
is  it  mneh  further  removed  from  that  ascribed  to  him  by 
the  synoptists  than  the  difference  of  subject  and  circum- 
stance will  suffice  to  account  for.  As  for  the  objection 
that  it  is  inconceivable  that  the  evangelist  could  have 
retained  for  so  many  years  a faithful  recollection  of  dis- 
courses heard  by  him  only  once,  we  need  not,  in  order  to 
meet  it,  resort  to  the  foolish  suggestion  of  Bertholdt 
that  he  had  taken  notes  of  them  at  the  time  for  his  own 
behoof;  nor  need  we  to  lay  stress  on  the  assurance  of 
Christ  which  John  records  that  the  Holy  Ghost  whom 
the  Father  should  send  to  them  would  teach  them  all 
things,  and  bring  all  things  to  their  remembrance  what- 
soever he  had  said  unto  them  (John  xiv,  26),  though  to 
the  believer  this  is  a fact  of  the  utmost  importance.  It 
will  suffice  to  meet  the  objection  if  we  suggest  that,  as 
the  apostle  went  forth  to  the  world  as  a witness  for 
Christ,  he  did  not  wait  till  he  sat  down  to  write  his 
Gospel  to  give  forth  his  recollections  of  his  Master’s 
words  and  deeds.  What  he  narrates  here  in  writing  is 
only  what  he  must  have  been  repeating  constantly  dur- 
ing his  whole  apostolic  career.  Still,  after  due  allowance 
has  been  made  for  all  these  considerations,  it  must  yet 
be  admitted  that  the  decided  Joliannean  cast  of  all  these 
discourses,  as  compared  with  our  Lord’s  sayings  reported 
in  the  synoptical  Gospels,  shows  that  while  the  evangel- 
ist gives  the  substance  and  essential  form  of  Christ’s 
public  utterances,  he  nevertheless,  to  a large  degree, 
moulds  them  into  his  own  style  of  phraseology  and  co- 
herence. This  is  especially  true  of  xii,  44-50,  which  is 
evidently  a summary  of  statements  made  on  perhaps 
more  than  one  occasion  not  definitely  given.  Indeed, 
it  is  doubtful  if  any  of  the  evangelists  give  us  the  exact 
words  of  our  Lord,  as  they  certainly  do  not  tally  in  this 
particular  any  more  than  they  do  in  the  order  and  con- 
nection in  which  these  are  narrated.  (See  Tholnck, 
GlaubwUrdigkeit  der  evangel  ischen  Geschiclite  [2d  edit.], 
p.  314  sq.).  See  Harmonies. 

V.  Characteristics . — 1.  As  to  matter,  the  peculiarities 
of  John’s  Gospel  more  especially  consist  in  the  four  fol- 
lowing doctrines:  (l.)  The  mystical  relation  of  the  Son 
to  the  Father.  (2.)  That  of  the  Redeemer  to  believers. 
(3.)  The  announcement  of  the  Holy  Ghost  as  the  Com- 
forter. (4.)  The  peculiar  importance  ascribed  to  love. 
Yet  these  peculiarities  are  not  confined  to  this  Gospel. 
Although  there  can  be  shown  in  the  writings  of  the  oth- 
er evangelists  some  isolated  dicta  of  the  Lord  which 
seem  to  bear  the  impress  of  John,  it  can  also  be  shown 
that  they  contain  thoughts  not  originating  with  that 
disciple,  but  with  the  Lord  himself.  Matthew  (xi,  27) 
speaks  of  the  relation  of  the  Son  to  the  Father  so  en- 
tirely in  the  style  of  John  that  persons  not  sufficiently 
versed  in  Holy  Writ  are  apt  to  search  for  this  passage 
in  the  Gospel  of  John.  The  mystical  union  of  the  Son 
with  believers  is  expressed  in  Matt,  xxviii,  20.  The 
promise  of  the  effusion  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  order  to 
perfect  the  disciples  is  found  in  Luke  xxiv,  40.  The 
doctrine  of  Paid  with  respect  to  love,  in  1 Cor.  xiii,  en- 
tirely resembles  what,  according  to  John,  Christ  taught 
on  the  same  subject.  Paid  here  deserves  our  particular 
attention.  In  the  writings  of  Paid  are  found  Christian 
truths  which  have  their  points  of  coalescence  only  in 
John,  viz.,  that  Christ  is  the  image  o f the  invisible  God, 
by  whom  all  things  are  created  (Col.  i,  15, 16).  raid 
considers  the  Spirit  of  God  in  the  Church  the  spiritual 
Christ,  as  Jesus  himself  does  (John  xiv,  16),  frequently 
using  the  words  elvai  iv  Xpiartp. 

2.  As  to  form,  there  is  something  peculiar  in  the  evan- 
gelist’s manner  of  writing.  His  language  betrays  traces 
of  that  Hebraistic  character  which  belongs  generally  to 


the  N.-T.  writers,  and  the  author  shows  his  Jewish  de- 
scent by  various  incidental  indications;  but  he  writes 
purer  Greek  than  most  of  the  others,  and  his  freedom 
from  Judaic  narrowness  is  so  marked  that  some  have 
founded  on  this  an  argument  against  the  genuineness 
of  the  book,  forgetting  that  the  experiences  of  the  apos- 
tle in  his  more  advanced  years  would  materially  tend  to 
correct  the  prejudices  and  party  leaidngs  of  his  earlier 
career.  The  apostle’s  style  is  marked  by  ease,  simplic- 
ity, and  vividness;  his  sentences  are  linked  together 
rather  by  inner  affinity  in  the  thoughts  than  by  out- 
ward forms  of  composition  or  dialectic  concatenation — 
they  move  on  one  after  the  other,  generally  with  the 
help  of  an  o vv,  sometimes  of  a k ai,  and  occasionally  of  a 
ok,  and  favorite  terms  or  phrases  are  repeated  without  re- 
gard to  rhetorical  art.  The  author  wrote  evidently  for 
Hellenistic  readers,  but  he  makes  no  attempt  at  Greek 
elegance,  or  that  wisdom  of  words  which  with  many  in 
his  day  constituted  the  perfection  of  Greek  art.  One 
of  the  peculiarities  of  John  is  that,  in  speaking  of  the 
adversaries  of  Jesus,  he  always  calls  them  ot  ToncVnoi. 
The  simplicity  of  John’s  character  is  also  evinced  by  the 
repetition  of  certain  leading  thoughts,  reproduced  in  the 
same  words  both  in  the  Gospel  and  in  the  Epistles,  such 
as paprvpict, testimony ; do%a, glory  ; d\i]9eta,  truth;  (f>wc, 
light;  (TKotoc,  darkness  ; aiiovioc,  eternal  life ; gi- 

rt iv,  to  abide. — Kitto.  See  Kaiser,  De  speciali  Joan. 
Grammatica,  etc.  (Erlang.  1842) ; Westcott,  Introd.  to 
Study  of  the  Gospels,  ch.  v. 

VI.  Place  of  Writing. — Ephesus  and  Patmos  are  the 
two  places  mentioned  by  early  writers,  and  the  weight 
of  evidence  seems  to  preponderate  in  favor  of  Ephesus. 
Iremeus  (iii,  1 ; also  apud  Euseb.  II.  E.  v,  8)  states  that 
John  published  his  Gospel  whilst  he  dwelt  in  Ephesus 
of  Asia.  Jerome  {Prol.  in  Matt.')  states  that  John  was 
in  Asia  when  he  complied  with  the  request  of  the  bish- 
ops of  Asia  and  others  to  write  more  profoundly  con- 
cerning the  divinity  of  Christ.  Theodore  of  Mopsuestia 
{Prol.  in  Joannem)  relates  that  John  was  living  at  Eph- 
esus when  he  was  moved  by  his  disciples  to  write  his 
Gospel. 

The  evidence  in  favor  of  Patmos  comes  from  two 
anonymous  writers.  The  author  of  the  Synopsis  of 
Scripture,  printed  in  the  works  of  Athanasius,  states 
that  the  Gospel  was  dictated  by  John  in  Patmos,  and 
published  afterwards  in  Ephesus.  The  author  of  the 
work  De  XII  Apostolis,  printed  in  the  Appendix  to  Fa- 
brici us’s  Hippolytus  (p.  952  [ed.  31  igne ]),  states  that  John 
j was  banished  by  Domitiau  to  Patmos,  where  he  wrote 
his  Gospel.  The  later  date  of  these  unknown  writers, 
and  the  seeming  inconsistency  of  their  testimony  with 
John’s  declaration  (Rev.  i,  2)  in  Patmos,  that  he  had  pre- 
viously borne  record  of  the  Word  of  God,  render  their 
testimony  of  little  weight. 

After  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem,  A.D.  70,  Ephesus 
probably  became  the  centre  of  the  active  life  of  Eastern 
Christendom.  Even  Antioch,  the  original  source  of 
missions  to  the  Gentiles,  and  the  future  metropolis  of 
the  Christian  patriarch,  appears,  for  a time,  less  conspic- 
uous in  the  obscurity  of  early  Church  history  than  Eph- 
esus, to  which  Paul  inscribed  his  Epistle,  and  in  which 
John  fonnd  a dwelling-place  and  a tomb.  This  half- 
Greek,  half-Oriental  city,  “visited  by  ships  from  all  parts 
of  the  Mediterranean,  and  united  by  great  roads  with 
the  markets  of  the  interior,  was  the  common  meeting- 
place  of  various  characters  and  classes  of  men”  (C’ony- 
beare  and  Howson,  St.  Paul,  ch.  xiv).  It  contained  a 
large  church  of  faithful  Christians,  a multitude  of  zeal- 
ous Jews,  an  indigenous  population  devoted  to  the  wor- 
ship of  a strange  idol,  whose  image  (Jerome,  Prof,  in 
Ejthes.)  was  borrowed  from  the  East,  its  name  from  the 
West — in  the  Xvstus  of  Ephesus  free-thinking  philoso- 
phers of  all  nations  disputed  over  their  favorite  tenets 
(Justin,  Trypho,  i,  vii).  It  was  the  place  to  which  Ce- 
rinthus  chose  to  bring  the  doctrines  which  he  devised  or 
learned  at  Alexandria  (Xeamler,  Church  History,  i,  396 
[Torrey’s  trans.]).  In  this  city,  and  among  the  lawless 


JOHN 


950 


JOHN 


heathens  in  its  neighborhood  (Clem.  Alexan.  Quis  dives 
still',  § 42),  John  was  engaged  in  extending  the  Chris- 
tian Church  when,  for  the  greater  edification  of  that 
( hurch,  his  Gospel  was  written.  It  was  obviously  ad- 
dressed’primarily  to  Christians,  not  to  heathens.  See 
Em  list  s. 

VII.  Date  of  Writing.— Attempts  have  been  made  to 
elicit  from  the  language  of  the  Gospel  itself  some  argu- 
ment which  should  decide  the  question  whether  it  was 
written  before  or  after  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem; 
but, considering  that  the  present  tense  “is”  is  used  in  v, 
2,  and  the  past  tense  “ was”  in  xi,  IS ; xviii,  1 ; xix,  41, 
it  would  seem  reasonable  to  conclude  that  these  passages 
throw  no  light  upon  the  question. 

Clement  of  Alexandria  (apud  Eusebius,  If.  E.  vi,  14) 
speaks  of  John  as  the  latest  of  the  evangelists.  The 
apostle's  sojourn  at  Ephesus  probably  began  after  Paul’s 
Epistle  to  the  Ephesians  was  written,  i.e.  after  A.D.  56. 
Eusebius  (//.  E.  iii,  20)  specifies  the  fourteenth  year  of 
Domitian,  i.e.A.D.  95,  as  the  year  of  his  banishment  to 
Patraos.  Probably  the  date  of  the  Gospel  may  lie  be- 
tween these  two,  about  A.D.  90.  The  references  to  it 
in  the  1st  Epistle  and  the  Revelation  lead  to  the  suppo- 
sition that  it  was  written  somewhat  before  those  two 
books,  and  the  tradition  of  its  supplementary  character 
would  lead  us  to  place  it  some  considerable  time  after 
the  apostle  bad  fixed  his  abode  at  Ephesus. — Smith. 

VIII.  Commentaries. — The  following  are  the  separate 
exegetieal  helps  on  the  whole  of  John’s  Gospel  exclu- 
sively (including  the  principal  monographs  on  its  spe- 
cial features),  to  the  most  important  of  which  we  prefix 
an  asterisk  [*] : Origen,  Commentaria  (in  Opp.  iv,  1 ; 
nlso  Berlin,  1831,  3 vols.  12mo);  Jerome,  Expositio  (in 
Opp.  Snppos.  xi,  77, 773) ; Augustine,  Tract  at  ns  (in  Opp. 
iv,  385:  translated,  Homilies  [includ.  1st  Ep.],  Oxford, 
1848-9,2  vols.  Svo) ; Chrysostom,  llomiliec  (in  Opp.viii, 
1 ; transl.  Homilies,  Oxf.  1848-52,  2 vols.  8vo);  also  In- 
terpretatio  (in  Can't  si  us,  i,  217);  Nonnus,  Metaphrases 
(Gr.  and  Eat.  in  1>.,1.  Max.  Pair,  ix,  437 ; also  ed.  Hein- 
si us,  E.  15. 1627,  8vo,  1639,  fol. ; also  ed.  Passovius,  Eips. 
1833,  8 vo);  Cyril  of  Alexandria,  Commentarii  (in  Opp. 
iv,  1 1123);  Bede,  in  Joann,  (in  Opp.  v,  451);  Alcuin, 
< ' ommentarii  (in  Opp.  I,  ii,  457 ; also  August.  1527, 8vo) ; 
Hugo  a St. Victor,  Annotationes  (in  Opp.  i,  233);  Aqui- 
nas, Commentarii  (in  Opp.  v)  ; also  Catena  (in  Opp.  iii ; 
t rausl.  as  vol.  iv  of  “ Catena  Aurea,”  Oxford,  1845, 8vo) ; 
Boiiaventura,  Expositio  (in  Opp.  il,  313);  also  Collado - 
nes  lib.  ii,  167) ; Albert  us  Magnus,  Comment  ani  (in  Opp. 
xi);  Zwiligle,  Annotationes  (in  Opp.  iv,  283);  Melaue- 
t lion,  Enarrationes  (Vitcmb.  1528,  fol.;  also  in  Opp.); 


Eugd.  1553,  1558,  1563,  Lovan.  1559,  8vo;  ed.  Medina, 
Complut.  1 569,  1578,  Mogunt.  1572,  Home,  1578,  folio); 
Sarcer, » Scholia  (I5asil,  1510,  8vo);  Cruciger,  Enurrutio 
(Vitcmb.  151°,  Argent.  1516,  8V0);  Bidlinger,  Commen- 


s (Basil.  1553,  8vo) ; Calvin,  Commentarii  (Ge- 
nev.  1553,  1555,  fol.;  also  in  Opp.;  with  a harmony,  Ge- 
licv.  1563;  in  French,  ib.  1563;  in  English,  bv  Feterston, 


' "mu  tne  i^ann,  uv  J imrae,  Loud.  1575,  fol.) ; 
A ret  ins,  Coniine, Uarins  (Eausannc,  1578,  Svo);  Damvus 
Comment  arias  (Geneva,  1585,  8 vo);  llunnins,  Commen- 
tanas  (Francof.  1585, 1591, 1505,  Svo) ; Delphimis.  Com- 
mentor d [includ.  Hebrews]  (ed.  Scrnanus,  Home,  15S7, 
*Vo);  ( Hyti-.iius, Scholia  (ed.  Sehineke,  V.  ad  M.  1588, 
vo  "Ictus  [ Horn.  Cath.],  Commentarii  (Horn,  1 5S8, 
lol.  1.00,  2 vols.  4t<»;  Lugd.  1589,  1614,  fol.;  Yen.  1589, 
iinx.  1003,  4to) ; llemmingius,  Comment  or  ins  (Basil. 
l->-'l,fol.);  Zeppcr,  A na/ysis  ( 1 1 orb.  1595, Svo);  Bollock 
t ommenturius  (Gcuev.  1599, 1618,  8vo) ; Agricola,  Com- 


ment arius  (Colon.  1599,  8vo);  Capponus,  Commentarius 
(Ven.  1604,  4to);  Pererius,  Disputationes  (Lugd.  1608- 
10),  2 vols.  4to) ; Pelargus,  Qucesita  (Francof.  1615. 4to) ; 
De  Ribera,  Commentarius  (Lugdun,  1623,  4to);  Mylius, 
Commentarius  (Francof.  1624, 4to);  Tamovius,  Commen- 
tarius (Host.  1629,  4to);  Jansonius,  Commentarius  (Lo- 
van.  1630,  Svo) ; Corderius,  Catena  (Antw.  1630,  folio) ; 
Leiueus,  Commentarius  (Holm.  1640,  4to)  ; Gomarus, 
lllustratio  (Amst.  1644,  fol.;  also  in  Opp.);  Lyser,  Dis- 
putationes (Vitemb.  1646,  4to);  Virginins,  Xotce  (Dorp. 
1647, 4to) ; Amyrant,  Paraphrase  (Fr.,  Salm.  1651, 8vo); 
Petrus,  Arend,  etc.  (Dutch,  Amsterd.  1658,  3 vols.  4to) ; 
Schlichting,  Commeutaria  [including  other  books  of  the 
N.T.]  (Irenop.  1656,  fol.) ; Hutcheson, Exposition  (Lond. 
1657,  fol.,  1840,  Svo);  Nifanius,  Commentarius  (F.  ad  M. 
1684, 4to);  S.  Schmidt,  Paraphrasis  (Argent.  1685, 1689, 
4to ; also  in  Germ.,  Hal.  1716, 8vo) ; Vassor,  Paraphrase 
(Fr.,  Paris,  1689,  12mo);  Comazzi,  Diniomtrazione , etc. 
(Naples,  1706,  Svo);  Sibersma,  Explication  (in  French, 
Amst.  1717,  4to;  in  Germ.,  Basel,  1718,  4to);  Guillaers, 
A dnotationes  [includ.  begin,  of  Matt,  and  Luke]  (Gan- 
dav.  1724,  4to);  *Lampe,  Commentarius  (Amst.  1724-6, 
Basil.  1725-7,  3 vols.  4to;  in  German,  Lpz.  1729,  4to); 
also  Syntagma  (Amst.  1737,  2 vols.  4to);  Merrick,  An- 
notations [on  i-iii]  (Lond.  1764-7,  2 vols.  Svo);  Light- 
foot,  Exercitations  (in  IPorfo?,  xii) ; also  Ckor.ographia 
(in  Ugoliuo,  Thesaurus,  v,  1117);  Semler,  Paraphrasis 
(Halle.  1771-2,  2 vols.  Svo);  Mosheim,  Erkldrung  (ed. 
Jacobi,  Weim.  1777,  4to) ; Hezel,  Anleitung  (pt.  i,  Frkft. 
1792, Svo);  Oertel, Erlaut.  [includ.  Epistles]  (Frkft.  and 
Gorl.  1795,  2 vols.  Svo) ; Morus,  Recitationes  (edit.  Din- 
dorf,  Prag.  1795,  Lips.  1796,  1808,  1821,  8vo);  S.  Lange, 
Erklarumj  [including  Epistles]  (Weimar,  1795-7,3  vols. 
Svo) ; Shepherd,  Notes  [including  Epistles]  (Lond.  1796, 
4to) ; Schmid,  Theoloyia , etc.  (Jen.  1800,  Svo) ; Schulze, 
Charakter , etc.  (Lpz.  1803, 8vo) ; Paulus,  Commentar  (pt. 

i,  Tubing.  1806,  Svo) ; Breitenstein,  .4 nmerlcungen  (Frkft. 
1813, 1823,  Svo) ; *Tittmann,  Commentarius  (Lips.  1816, 
Svo;  tr.  in  English,  Edinb.  1844,  2 vols.  12mo) ; Mayer, 
Beit  rage  (Lps.  1820,  Svo);  *Li\cke,  Commentar  [includ. 
Epistles]  (Bonn,  1820-32,  1833-5,  1840-43,  3 vols.  8vo; 
vol.  iii  [epistle]  transl.  into  Engl.,  Edinb.  1837,  12mo); 
Moysey,  Lectures  (Oxf.  1821-23,  2 vols.  8vo);  Pitman, 
Lectures  [on  i-x]  (Loud.  1822, 8vo) ; Sevffarth,  Special- 
ckarakteristik , etc.  (Lpzg.  1823,  8vo);  *Tholuck,  Com- 
mentar (I lamb.  1826,  1828, 1831,  1833;  Lips.  1837, 1844; 
Gotha,  1857  ; in  Engl,  by  Kaufman,  Boston,  1836, 12mo; 
by  Krauth,  l’hila.  1859,  *8vo) ; Klee,  Commentar  (Mainz, 
1829,  Svo) ; Fickenscher,  Anslegung  (Numb.  1831-33,  3 
vols.  8vo) ; Grimm,  Christologia,  etc.  (Lips.  1838,  Svo); 
Sumner,  Exposition  (Lond.  1835,  Svo);  Matthiii,  Ausle- 
gnng  (vol.  i,  Gbtt.  1837,  Svo)  ; Slade,  Readings  (London, 
1837,  1843,  12mo);  Simson,  Theologici,  etc.  (Reg.  1839, 
Svo) ; Fromann,  Lehrbegrif,  etc.  (Leipzig,  1839,  Svo) ; 
Wirth,  Erhlti rung  ( U1  m , 1839,  Svo)  ; Patterson,  Lectures 
[xiv-xvi]  (London,  1840, 12mo) ; Anderson,  Exposition 
(London,  1841,  2 vols.  12nio);  Drummond,  Exposition 
(Lond.  1841, 12mo)  ; Herberden,  Reflections  (Lond,  1842, 
12mo);  Kostlin,  Lehrbegrijf,  etc.  (Berlin,  1843,  Svo); 
Baumgarten-Crusius,  A uslegung  [includ.  Epistles]  (Jen. 
1843-5,  2 vols.  8vo);  Jones,  Sermons  [xiii-xvii]  (Oxf. 
1844,  8vo);  Aislabee,  Translation  (Lond.  1845,  12mo); 
Ford,  Illustration  (Lond.  1852,  8vo);  Lutliardt,  Eigen - 
thiimlichkeit , etc.  (Lpz.  1852-3,  2 vols.  8vo);  Bouchier, 
Exposition  (London.  1854,  12mo);  Cumming,  Readings 
( London,  185G,  8vo) ; Maurice,  Discourses  (Camb.  1857, 
12mo) ; 5 Clergymen,  Revision  (Lond.  1857, 8vo) ; Reuss, 
Introd.  (in  bis  Hist,  de  la  theol.  Chretienne  Strasb.  1860, 

ii,  272  sq.) ; Fawcett,  Exposition  (London,  1860,  Svo); 
*E\vald,  Erkldrung  [includ.  Epistles]  (Gbtt.  1861  sq.,  3 
vols.  Svo) ; *Hengstenberg,  Erlduternng  (Berl.  1861-64, 
3 vols.,  1869,  2 vols.  8vo;  tr.  in  English,  Edinb.  1865,  2 
vo]s.  8vo) ; Malan,  Notes  (Lond.  1862,  4to);  Astie,  Ex- 
plication (Geneve,  1862-4,3  vols.  8vo);  Klofutar,  Com - 
mentarins  (Vienna,  1863,  8vo);  Brown,  Lectures  (Oxf. 
1863,  2 vols.  8vo);  Biiumlein,  Commentar  (Stuttg.  1863, 
8vo);  Scholteu,  Onderzock.  (Levd,  1864  sq.,  2 vols, Svo); 


JOHN 


951 


JOHN 


Godet,  Comnientaire  (vol.  i,  1864,  8vo) ; Ryle,  Thoughts 
(Loud.  1865-6,  2 vols.  8vo) ; Anon.  Erlauterung  (Berlin, 
1866,  8vo) ; Von  Burger,  Erklarung  (Nordl.  1867,  8vo) ; 
Roffhack,  Auslegung  (Leipzig,  1871,  *2  vols.  8vo).  See 
GosrEi.s. 

JOHN,  FIRST  EPISTLE  OF,  the  most  important 
of  the  so-called  catholic  or  “ general”  Epistles,  of  which 
it  is  the  fourth  in  order.  See  Bible,  vol.  i,  p.  800,  col.  2. 

I.  Its  Authenticity. — That  this  is  the  production  of  the 
same  author  as  wrote  the  fourth  Gospel  is  so  manifest 
that  it  has  universally  been  admitted  (comp.  Ilauff,  Die 
A uthentie  u.  der  hohe  Worth  des  Evang.  Johan,  p.  137  sq.). 
The  establishment  of  the  genuineness  of  the  one,  there- 
fore, involves  the  admission  of  that  of  the  other.  The 
evidence,  however,  in  favor  of  the  Epistle  is  sufficient  to 
establish  its  claims,  apart  from  its  relation  to  the  Gospel. 
Sec  § 7,  below. 

1.  External. — Eusebius  informs  us  that  Papias  knew 
and  made  use  of  it  (If.E.  iii,  39) ; Polycarp  quotes  a pas- 
sage (iv,3)  from  it  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Philippians,  ch. 
vii ; Ireiueus  uses  it  (comp.  A dr.  Ilcer.  iii.  15 ; v,  8,  with 
1 John  ii,  18;  iv,  1,3;  v,  1) ; it  is  quoted  or  referred  to 
by  Clement  of  Alexandria  (Strom.  ii,389)  andTertullian 
(Scorpiac.  c.  22 ; Adr. Prax.  c.  1 5) ; and  Eusebius  assures 
us  that  it  was  universally  and  always  acknowledged  in 
the  Church  (II.  E.  iii,  25, 26).  It  is  found  in  the  Peshito 
and  in  all  the  ancient  versions,  and  is  included  in  every 
catalogue  of  the  canonical  books  which  has  come  down 
to  us  (Lardner,  ll’orfo,  vi,  584).  In  fact,  the  only  per- 
sons who  appear  not  to  have  recognised  this  Epistle  are 
the  ancient  heretics,  the  Alogi  and  the  Marcionites,  the 
latter  of  whom  were  acquainted  with  none  of  the  writ- 
ings of  John,  and  the  former  rejected  them  all,  ascribing 
them  to  Cerinthns,  not  upon  critical,  but  purely  arbitrary 
and  dogmatical  grounds. 

2.  With  this  the  internal  evidence  fully  accords.  The 
wrork  is  anonymous,  but  the  apostle  John  is  plainly  indi- 
cated throughout  as  the  writer.  The  author  asserts 
that  he  had  been  an  immediate  disciple  of  Jesus,  and 
that  he  testifies  wThat  he  himself  had  seen  and  heard  (i, 
1-4;  iv,  14),  and  this  assumption  is  sustained  through- 
out in  a Avav  so  natural  and  unaffected  that  it  would  be 
doing  violence  to  all  probability  to  suppose  that  it  conld 
have  been  attained  by  one  who  felt  that  he  was  practis- 
ing in  this  a deliberate  imposition.  The  circumstances 
also  of  the  writer  to  which  he  alludes,  the  themes  on 
which  he  chiefly  dwells,  and  the  spirit  which  his  writing 
breathes,  are  all  such  as  fall  in  with  what  we  know  of 
the  apostle  John,  and  suggest  him  as  the  w riter.  If  this 
be  the  work  of  a pretender,  he  has,  as  De  Wette  remarks 
(Exeget.  Hdb.),u shown  incredible  subtlety  in  concealing 
the  name  of  the  apostle,  whilst  he  has  indirectly,  and  in 
a most  simple  natural  way,  indicated  him  as  the  writer.” 

A few  German  theologians  in  our  own  times  (Lange, 
Schriften  des  Johan,  iii,  4 sq. ; Cludius,  Uransiehten  des 
Ch  ristenth.  p.  52  sq. ; Bretschneider,  Probabilia,  p.  1 66  sq. ; 
Zeller,  in  the  Theol.Jahrb.  1845)  have  been  the  first  crit- 
ics to  throw  doubts  on  the  genuineness  of  any  of  John’s 
writings,  and  this  altogether  on  internal  grounds,  but 
they  have  met  with  complete  refutations  from  the  pens 
of  Bertholdt  (vi),  Harmsen  (.4  uthent.  d.  Schr.  d.  Evangel. 
Johan."),  and  Liicke  ( Commentar , iii).  See  above.  The 
only  serious  objections  to  the  Epistles  are  those  of  Bret- 
schneider, who  has  equally  attacked  the  genuineness  of 
the  Gospel. 

(1.)  He  maintains  that  the  doctrine  concerning  the 
Logos , and  the  anti-docetic  tendency  of  John's  1st  Epis- 
tle. betray  an  author  of  the  second  century,  whom  he  as- 
sumes to  be  John  the  Presbyter.  But  it  is  beyond  all 
question,  says  Lhcke  (l.  c.),  that  the  Logos  doctrine  of 
John,  substantially,  although  not  fully  developed,  exist- 
ed in  the  Jewish  theological  notions  respecting  the  Son  of 
God,  and  that  we  find  it  distinctly  expressed,  although  in 
different  words,  in  the  Pauline  representation  of  Christ’s 
exalted  dignity  (compare  Coloss,  i with  Heb.  i) ; that 
the  rudiments  of  it  appear  in  the  literature  of  the  Jews, 
canonical  and  apocryphal,  Chaldaic  and  Alexandrian ; { 


that  in  the  time  of  Christ  it  was  considerably  developed 
in  the  writings  of  Philo,  and  still  more  strongly  in  the 
fathers  of  the  second  century,  who  were  so  far  from  re- 
taining the  simple,  Hebraizing,  and  canonical  mode  of 
expression  peculiar  to  John  that  in  them  it  had  assumed 
a gnostically  erudite  form,  although  essentially  identical. 
John  intends  by  the  Word  (Logos)  to  express  the  divine 
nature  of  Christ,  but  the  patristic  logology  attempts  to 
determine  the  relation  between  the  Logos  and  the  invis- 
ible God  on  one  side,  and  the  world  on  the  other.  The 
earliest  fathers,  as  Justin  Martyr  and  Tatian,  while  they 
make  use  of  John’s  phraseology,  further  support  their 
doctrines  by  ecclesiastical  tradition,  which,  as  Liicke  ob- 
serves, must  have  its  root  in  doctrines  that  Avere  knoivn 
in  the  first  century.  But,  from  Theophilus  of  Antioch 
doAvinvards,  the  fathers,  mentioning  John  by  name,  ex- 
pressly connect  their  elucidations  Avitli  the  canonical 
foundation  in  the  Gospel  of  John,  Avithout  the  granting 
oi  Avhich  the  language  of  Justin  would  be  inexplicable 
(Olshausen,  On  the  Genuineness  of  the  Eonr  Gospels,  p. 
300  sq.). . Accordingly,  adds  Liicke,  on  this  side,  the 
authenticity  of  the  Gospel  and  Epistle  remains  unassail- 
able. See  Logos. 

(2.)  On  similar  grounds  may  be  refuted  Bretselinei- 
der’s  arguments  derived  from  the  anti-docetic  character 
of  John’s  Epistle.  It  is  true,  docetism,  or  the  idealistic 
philosophy,  Avas  not  fully  deA'olopcd  before  the  second 
century,  but  its  germ  existed  before  the  time  of  Christ, 
as  has  been  shown  by  Mosheim,  Walch.  and  Niemeyer, 
Traces  of  JeAvish  theology  and  Oriental  theosophy  hav- 
ing been  applied  to  the  Christian  doctrine  in  the  apos- 
tolic age  are  to  be  found  in  the  Epistles  of  Raul,  and  it 
Avould  be  unaccountable  to  suppose  that  the  fully  devel- 
oped docetism  should  haA'e  first  made  its  appearauce  in 
the  Epistles  of  Iremeus  and  Folycarp.  We  have  the 
authority  of  the  former  of  these  for  the  fact  that  Cerin- 
thus  taught  the  docetic  heresy  in  the  lifetime  of  John 
in  the  simple  form  in  Avhich  it  seems  to  be  attaeked  in 
1 John  ri’,  1-3 ; ii,  22 ; 2 John  7.  See  Docetve. 

II.  Integrity — The  genuineness  of  only  tAvo  small  por- 
tions of  this  Avriting  haAre  been  called  in  question,  A'iz., 
the  AA'ords  o bp oXoywv  rov  vi bv  icai  riv  irartpa  txti 
(ii,  23),  and  the  AA'ords  iv  rep  oi’pavip  b Tlaryp,  b Aoyog 
K'ii  ro  ay ioi»  Yli'tvpa’  icai  ovroi  oi  -pug  ev  fieri.  Kai 
rpue;  fieri v oi  paprvpovvTtc  iv  ry  yrj  (v,  7,  8).  The 
former  of  these  is  omitted  in  the  Text.Rec.,  and  is  print- 
ed in  italics  in  the  A.Y.  It  is,  hoAveA’er,  supported  by 
sufficient  authority,  and  is  inserted  by  Griesbach,  Lach- 
mann,  Tischendorf,  Scholz,  etc.  The  latter  of  these  pas- 
sages has  ghren  rise  to  a Avorld- famous  controA’ersy, 
which  can  hardly  he  said  to  have  yet  ended  (Orme, 
Memoir  of  the  Controversy  respecting  the  Heavenly  Wit- 
nesses [Lond.  1830]).  The  prei  ailing  judgment,  Iioav- 
ever,  of  all  critics  and  interpreters  is  that  the  passage  is 
spurious  (see  Griesbach,  Append,  ad X.  T.  ii,  1-25;  Tisch- 
endorf on  the  passage;  Liicke, Comment,  on  the  Epistles 
oj  John , in  Lib.  Cabinet,  No.  xa',  etc.).  See  Witnesses, 
the  Three  Heaa  exey. 

III.  Time  and  Place  of  wilting  the  First  Epistle. — On 
these  points  nothing  certain  can  be  determined. 

1.  It  has  been  conjectured  by  many  interpreters,  an- 
cient and  modern,  that  it  Avas  AA'ritten  at  the  same  place 
as  the  Gospel.  The  more  ancient  tradition  places  the 
Avriting  of  the  Gospel  at  Ephesus,  and  a less  authentic 
report  refers  it  to  the  island  of  I 'atm  os.  Hug  (Introel.) 
infers,  from  the  absence  of  Avriting  materials  (3  John  13), 
that  all  John’s  Epistles  AA-ere  composed  at  Patmos.  The 
most  probable  opinion  is  that  it  was  Avritten  somewhere 
in  Asia  Minor,  in  which  Avas  the  ordinary  residence  of 
the  apostle  (Eusebius,  Hist.  Eccl.  iii,  23) ; perhaps,  accord- 
ing to  the  tradition  of  the  Greek  Church,  at  Ephesus, 
but  for  this  Ave  have  no  historical  Avarrant  (Liicke,  Com- 
mentary). 

2.  It  is  equally  difficult  to  determine  the  time  of  the 
Avriting  of  this  Epistle,  although  it  A\'as  most  probablv 
posterior  to  the  Gospel,  Avhich  seems  to  be  referred  to  in 
1 John  i,4.  Some  are  of  opinion  that  the  Epistle  Avas 


JOHN  952  JOHN 


an  envelope  or  accompaniment  to  the  Gospel,  and  that 
they  were  consequently  written  nearly  simultaneously 
i 1 lug,  Introd.).  As, however,  the  period  when  the  Gos- 
pel was  written,  according  to  the  evidence  of  tradition 
and  criticism,  "fluctuates  between  the  sixth  and  ninth 
deceuuium  of  the  first  century  (Liieke,  Conunentai  y),\\e 
are  at  a loss  for  data  on  which  to  found  any  probable 
hypothesis  respecting  the  exact  time  of  the  writing  of 
the  Epistle;  but  that  it  was  posterior  to  the  Gospel  is 
further  rendered  probable  from  the  fact  that  it  is  formed 
on  such  a view  of  the  person  of  Jesus  as  is  found  only  in 
John's  Gospel,  and  that  it  abounds  in  allusions  to  the 
speeches  of  Jesus  as  there  recorded.  Liieke  concludes, 
from  its  resembling  the  Gospel  in  its  apologetical  and 
polemical  allusions,  that  it  indicates  such  a state  of  the 
Christian  community  as  proves  that  it  must  be  posterior 
even  to  the  last  Epistles  of  Paul,  and  consequently  that 
the  ancient  Church  was  justified  in  classing  it  among 
the  catholic  Epistles,  which  all  bear  this  chronological 
character. 

It  has  been  argued  by  several,  from  ii,  18  ( taxccn)  iopa 
ioTir),  that  the  Epistle  was  written  before  the  destruc- 
tion of  Jerusalem,  while  others,  founding  their  conjecture 
on  the  same  passage,  maintain  the  very  reverse.  Among 
the  former  are  to  be  found  the  names  of  llammoiul,  Gro- 
tius,  Calovius,  Lange,  and  Hiinlein,  and  among  the  lat- 
ter those  of  llaronius,  Basnage,  Mill,  and  Le  Clerc. 

Equally  unsatisfactory  is  the  argument,  in  respect  to 
the  time  when  this  Epistle  was  written,  derived  from  its 
supposed  senile  tone;  for,  although  the  style  is  somewhat 
more  tautological  than  the  Gospel,  this  can  he  accounted 
for  by  its  epistolary  character,  without  ascribing  it  to  the 
effects  of  senile  forgetfulness.  In  fact,  this  character  is 
altogether  denied  by  some  of  the  ablest  critics.  Still, 
from  the  patriarchal  tone  assumed  in  the  Epistle,  and  the 
frequent  use  of  the  appellation  “little  children,”  we  may 
reasonably  conclude  that  it  was  written  in  advanced 
age,  perhaps  not  long  after  the  Gospel,  or  about  A.D.  92. 

IV.  For  whom  written. — The  writer  evidently  had  in 
his  eye  a circle  of  readers  with  whom  he  stood  in  close 
personal  relation— Christians,  apparently,  who  vrere  liv- 
ing in  the  midst  of  idolaters  (v,  21),  and  who  were  ex- 
posed to  danger  from  false  speculation  and  wrong  meth- 
ods of  presenting  the  truths  of  Christianity  (ii,  22-2G; 
iv,  1-3;  v,  1-G,  etc.).  If  the  Epistle  was  written  by 
John  at  Ephesus,  we  may,  from  these  circumstances, 
with  much  probability  conclude  that  the  Christians  in  j 
that  region  were  the  parties  for  whose  behoof  it  was  first  I 
designed.  Augustine  ((incest . EcanyeK  ii,  39)  says  it  was  j 
addressed  “ad  l’arthos,”  and  this  inscription  appears  in  [ 
several  MSS.  of  the  Vulgate,  and  has  been  defended  by  I 
Grotius,  l’aulus,  and  others,  as  giving  the  real  destina- 
tion of  the.  Epistle.  John,  however,  had  no  relations 
with  the  Earth ians  that  we  know  of,  nor  does  a single 
ancient  testimony  confirm  the  statement  of  Augustine, 
except  on  the  part  of  later  writers  of  the  Latin  Church, 
who  probably  simply  followed  him.  It  has  been  sug- 
gested that,  as  the  2d  Epistle  is  by  some  of  the  ancients 
described  as  irpiuj  irapStvovg  (Clem.  Alex.  Fray.,  edit. 
Potter,  p.  1011),  this  may  have  been  changed  into  -n-pug 
llophwr,  and  by  mistake  applied  to  the  1st  Epistle 
(Whistoii, Comment,  on  the  Cath.  Epistles;  Hug,  Introd. 
p.  1G 1,  Eosdick’s  transl.).  This  is  possible,  but  not  very 
probable.  The  suggestion  of  Wegscheider,  that  “ad 
1 art  bos  is  an  error  for  “ad  Sparsos,”  an  inscription 
which  actually  is  found  in  several  MSS.  (Scliolz,  Jiibl. 
A nt.  R<  ise,  p.  G7),  is  ingenious,  and  may  be  correct.  If 
we  are  to  understand  the  term  catholic,  as  applied  to  this 
Epistle,  in  the  sense  of  circular,  we  may  naturally  infer, 
lrotn  the  absence  of  the  epistolary  form,  that  this  was  an 
encyclical  letter  addressed  to  several  of  John's  congrega- 
tions, and  in  all  probability  to  the  churches  of  the  Apoc- 
alypse. See  § K,  below.  Lardner  is  clearly  right  when 
he  says  that  it  was  primarily  meant  for  the  churches  in 
Asia  under  John’s  inspection,  to  whom  he  had  already 
orally  delivered  his  doctrine  (i,3;  ii, 7).  Sec  Hevkla- 
TION. 


V.  Character. — Though  ranked  among  the  catholic 
Epistles,  this  writing  has  not  the  form  of  an  epistle — in 
this  respect  it  more  resembles  a free  homily;  still,  in 
fact,  it  undoubtedly  was  sent  as  a letter  to  the  persons 
for  whose  instruction  it  was  designed.  The  general 
strain  is  admonitory,  and  the  author  seems  to  have  writ- 
ten as  he  would  have  spoken  had  those  whom  he  ad- 
dresses been  present  before  him.  One  great  thought 
pervades  the  book— the  reality  of  Christ’s  appearance  in 
the  flesh,  and  the  all-sufficiency  of  his  doctrine  for  sal- 
vation— a salvation  which  manifests  itself  in  holiness 
and  love.  But  the  author  does  not  discuss  these  topics 
in  any  systematic  or  logical  form ; he  rather  allows  his 
thoughts  to  flow  out  in  succession  as  one  suggests  anoth- 
er, and  clothes  them  in  simple  and  earnest  w ords  as  they 
arise  in  his  mind.  Some  have  imputed  a character  of 
senility  to  the  work  on  this  account,  but  without  reason. 
Under  a simple  and  inartificial  exterior  there  lies  deep 
thought,  and  the  book  is  pervaded  by  a suppressed  in- 
tensity of  feeling  that  recalls  the  youthful  Boanerges  in 
the  aged  apostle.  The  mighty  pow'er  that  is  in  it  has 
drawn  to  it  in  all  ages  the  reverence  and  love  of  the  no- 
blest minds,  “ especially  of  those  wrho  more  particularly 
take  up  Christianity  as  a religion  of  love — a religion  of 
the  heart”  (Liieke,  Int.  p.  55). 

VI.  Contents. — A strict  analysis  of  this  Epistle,  there- 
fore, seems  hardly  possible,  as  the  writer  does  not  appear 
to  have  been  systematic  in  its  plan,  but  rather  to  have 
written  out  of  a full  and  loving  heart.  “ He  asserts  the 
pre-existent  glory  and  the  real  humanity  of  our  Lord, 
in  opposition  to  false  teachers,  and  for  the  comfort  of 
the  Church  (i,  1-7).  Then  follows  a statement  of  the 
sinfulness  of  man,  and  the  propitiation  of  Christ,  this 
propitiation  being  intended  to  stir  us  up  to  holiness  and 
love  (i,  8;  ii,  17);  Jesus  and  the  Christ  are  asserted  to 
be  one,  in  opposition  to  the  false  teachers  (ii,  18-29). 
The  next  chapter  seems  devoted  to  the  singular  love  of 
God  in  adopting  us  to  be  his  sons,  with  the  happiness 
and  the  duties  arising  out  of  it,  especially  the  -duty  of 
brothefly  love  (ch.  iii).  The  following  chapter  is  prin- 
cipally occupied  with  marks  by  which  to  distinguish  the 
teaching  of  the  Spirit  of  God  from  that  of  false  teachers 
and  of  Antichrist,  with  repeated  exhortations  to  ‘love  as 
brethren’  (ch.  iv).  The  apostle  then  shows  the  connec- 
tion between  faith,  renewal,  love  to  God  and  to  the 
brethren,  obedience,  and  victory  over  the  world,  and 
concludes  with  a brief  summary  of  what  had  been  al- 
ready said  (ch.  v)”  (Fairbairn).  See  § 8,  below\ 

VII.  Relation  to  the  Fourth  Gospel. — The  close  affinity 
between  this  Epistle  and  John’s  Gospel  has  already  been 
alluded  to.  In  style,  in  prevailing  formulae  of  expres- 
sion. in  spirit,  anil  in  thought,  the  two  are  identical.  “ It 
is  evident  that  the  writer  of  each  had  a similar  class  of 
opponents  in  his  mind — those  who,  like  the  Docetae,  de- 
nied the  true  humanity  of  Christ ; those,  again,  who  de- 
nied that  the  man  Jesus  was  the  Christ  and  Son  of  God ; 
and  those  who,  under  pretence  of  being  his  disciples, 
were  habitually  living  in  violation  of  his  commands.  In 
both  hooks  is  the  same  deeply  loving  and  contemplative 
nature;  in  both,  a heart  completely  imbued  writh  the 
teaching  of  the  Saviour;  in  both,  also,  the  same  tenden- 
cy to  abhorrence  of  those  who  opposed  his  Lord.  Re- 
markable, too  (to  use  the  words  of  Ebrard),  is  the  simi- 
larity of  the  circle  of  ideas  in  both  writings.  The  no- 
tions, light,  life,  darkness,  truth,  lie,  meet  us  in  the  Epis- 
tle with  the  same  broad  and  deep  meaning  which  they 
bear  in  the  Gospel;  so,  also,  the  notions  of  propitiation 
(<\«<r/ioc),of  doing  righteousness,  sin,  or  iniquity  ( it  pap - 
riai’,  avopiav),  and  the  sharply-presented  antitheses  of 
light  and  darkness,  truth  and  lie,  life  and  death,  of  lov- 
ing and  hating,  the,  love  of  the  Father  and  of  the  world, 
children  of  God  and  of  the  devil,  spirit  of  truth  and  of 
error”  ( Fairbairn).  Macknight,  and,  still  more  fully,  De 
\\  ette,  have  drawn  out  a copious  comparison  of  expres- 
sions common  to  the  Gospel  and  Epistle. 

This  similarity  has  led  to  the  suggestion  that  both,  in 
a sense,  form  one  whole,  the  Epistle  being,  according  to 


JOHN 


953 


JOHN 


some,  a prolegomenon  to  the  Gospel;  according  to  oth- 
ers, its  practical  conclusion ; and  according  to  others,  its 
commendatory  accompaniment.  The  probability  is  that 
both  were  written  at  the  same  period  of  the  author’s 
life,  and  that  they  both  contain  in  writing  what  he  had 
been  accustomed  to  testify  and  teach  during  his  apos- 
tolic ministry;  but  whether  any  closer  relation  than 
this  exists  between  them  must  remain  matter  entirely 
of  conjecture. 

VIII.  Design. — That  the  apostle  sought  to  confirm  the 
believers  for  whom  he  wrote  in  their  attachment  to 
Christianity  as  it  had  been  delivered  to  them  by  the 
ambassadors  of  Christ  is  evident  on  the  surface  of  the 
Epistle.  It  is  clear,  also,  that  he  had  in  view  certain 
false  teachers  by  whose  arts  the  Christians  were  in  dan- 
ger of  being  seduced  from  the  faith  of  Jesus  as  the  in- 
carnate Sou  of  God,  and  from  that  holy  and  loving  course 
of  conduct  to  which  true  faith  in  Jesus  leads;  but  who 
these  false  teachers  were,  or  to  what  school  they  be- 
longed, is  doubtful.  It  is  an  old  opinion  that  they  were 
Docet;e  (Tertullian,  J)e  came  Christi , i,  24;  Diouys.  Al. 
ap.  Eusebius,  11.  E.  vii,  25),  and  to  this  many  recent  in- 
quirers have  given  in  their  adherence.  Liicke,  who 
strenuously  defends  this  view,  attempts  to  show  that 
Docetism  was  in  vogue  as  early  as  the  time  of  John  by 
an  appeal  to  the  case  of  Ccrinthus,  and  to  the  references 
to  Docetism  in  three  of  the  epistles  of  Ignatius  (Ad 
Smyra.  2 sq. ; A d Trail,  ix ; Ad  Eph.  vii) ; but  the  doc- 
trine of  Cerinthus  respecting  the  person  of  Jesus  Christ 
was  not  Docetic  in  the  proper  sense,  and  the  passages 
cited  from  Ignatius  are  all  subject  to  the  suspicion  of 
being  interpolations,  as  none  of  them  are  found  in  the 
Syriac  recension.  Liicke  lays  stress  also  on  the  words 
iv  capid  iXrjXvSoTci  (iv. 2;  comp.  2 John  vii)  as  indicat- 
ing an  express  antithesis  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Docctics 
that  Christ  had  come  only  in  appearance.  It  may  be 
doubted,  however,  whether  this  means  anything  more 
than  that  Christ  had  really  come,  the  phrase  iv  (rapid 
iXSeiv  being  probably  a familiar  technicality  for  this 
among  the  Christians.  It  may  be  questioned,  also, 
whether  the  passage  should  not  be  translated  thus, 
“ Every  spirit  which  confcsseth  Jesus  Christ  having 
[who  has]  come  in  the  flesh  is  of  God,”  rather  than 
thus,  “ Every  spirit  which  confesseth  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  come,”  etc.  (for  bpoXo-ytiv  with  the  accusative,  see 
John  ix,  22;  Acts  xxiii,  8;  Horn,  x,  9 ; 1 Tim.  vi,  12), 
ami  in  this  case  eveu  the  appearance  of  allusion  to  a 
contrary  doctrine  vanishes  (see  Week,  Einleit.  p.  593). 
It  may  be  added  that,  had  John  intended  to  express  a 
direct  antithesis  to  Docetism,  he  would  hardly  have  con- 
tented himself  with  merely  using  the  words  iv  (rapid , 
for  there  is  a sense  in  which  even  the  Docetae  would 
have  admitted  this. — Kitto. 

The  main  object  of  the  Epistle,  therefore,  does  not 
appear  to  be  simply  that  of  opposing  the  errors  of  the 
Docctm  (Schmidt,  Bcrthcldt,  Nieineyer),  or  of  the  Gnos- 
tics (Klcukcr),  or  of  the  Nicolaitans  (Macknight),  or 
of  the  Ceriuthians  (Michaelis),  or  of  all  of  them  togeth- 
er (Townsend),  or  of  the  Sabians  (Barkev,  Storr,  Keil), 
or  of  Judaizcrs  (Loftier,  Sender),  or  of  apostates  to  Ju- 
daism (Lange,  Eichhorn,  Hanlein) : the  leading  pur- 
pose of  the  apostle  appears  to  be  rather  constructive 
than  polemical.  John  is  remarkable  both  in  his  history 
and  in  his  writings  for  his  abhorrence  of  false  doctrine, 
but  he  does  not  attack  error  as  a controversialist.  He 
states  the  deep  truth  and  lays  down  the  deep  moral 
teaching  of  Christianity,  and  in  this  way,  rather  than 
directly,  condemns  heresy.  In  the  introduction  (i,  1^1) 
the  apostle  states  the  purpose  of  his  Epistle.  It  is  to 
declare  the  Word  of  life  to  those  whom  lie  is  address- 
ing, in  order  that  he  and  they  might  be  united  in  true 
communion  with  each  other,  and  with  God  the  Father, 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  He  at  once  begins  to  explain 
the  nature  and  conditions  of  communion  with  God,  and, 
being  led  on  from  this  point  into  other  topics,  he  twice 
brings  himself  back  to  the  same  subject.  The  first  part 
of  the  Epistle  may  be  considered  to  end  at  ii,  28.  The 


apostle  begins  afresh  with  the  doctrine  of  sonship  or 
communion  at  ii,  29,  and  returns  to  the  same  theme  at 
iv,  7.  His  lesson  throughout  is,  that  the  means  of 
union  with  God  are,  on  the  part  of  Christ,  his  atoning 
blood  (i,  7;  ii,  2;  iii,  5;  iv,  10,  14;  v,  6)  and  advocacy 
(ii,  I) — on  tbe  part  of  man,  holiness  (i,  G),  obedience  (ii, 
3),  purity  (iii,  3),  faith  (iii,  23;  iv,  3;  v,  5),  and,  above 
all,  love  "(ii,  7 ; iii,  14 ; iv,  7 ; v,  1).  John  is  designated  as 
the  Apostle  of  Love,  and  rightly ; but  it  should  be  ever 
remembered  that  his  “love”  does  not  exclude  or  ignore, 
but  embraces  both  faith  and  obedience  as  constituent 
parts  of  itself.  Indeed,  Paul’s  “ faith  that  worketh  by 
love,”  and  James’s  “works  that  are  the  fruit  of  faith,” 
and  John’s  “love  which  springs  from  faith  and  pro- 
duces obedience,”  are  all  one  and  the  same  state  of 
mind  described  according  to  the  first,  third,  or  second 
stage  into  which  we  are  able  to  analyze  the  complex 
whole. — Smith. 

IX.  Commentaries. — The  special  exegetical  helps  on 
the  whole  of  the  three  epistles  of  John,  besides  those 
mentioned  under  the  Gospel  above,  are  the  following, 
of  which  we  designate  the  most  important  by  prefixing 
an  asterisk:  Didvmus,/n  Ep.  Jo.  (in  Bibl.  M ax.  Patr.  v ; 
also  in  Bibl.  Patr.  Gall,  vi) ; Bede,  Expositio  (in  Opp. 
v);  Althamer,  Commentarius  (Argent.  1521,  1528,  8vo); 
Hemming,  Commentarius  (Yitcmb.  1569,  8vo)  ; Selneck- 
cr,  Homiliee  (Franc.  1580, 1597, 8vo);  Danseus,  Commen- 
tarius (Geuev.  1585,  8vo);  Horne,  Expositio  [including 
Jude]  (Brunsw.  1654,  4to);  Rappolt,  Commentaiio  (ed. 
Carpzov,  Lips.  IG87,  and  later,  4to) ; Creyghton,  Ontleed- 
ing  (Franec.  1704,  4to);  J.  Lange,  Exegesis  (Hal.  1713, 
4to;  including  Pet.,  ib.  1724,  fol.) ; li usm ever,  Erklarung 
(Ilamb.  1717,  4to) ; Whiston,  Commentary  (Lond.  1719, 
8vo) ; Tgildc,  Verllaaring  (Delph.  1736,  4to) ; Publius, 
Notoe  (Amst.  1739, 12mo)  ; Benson,  Notes  (London,  1749, 
4to;  includ. other  cath.  ep.,ib.  1756,  4to);  Kchirmer,  Er- 
klarung (Breslau.  1780,  8vo) ; Morns,  Prcelectiones  (edit. 
Hcmpel,  Lips.  1797,  8vo);  Ilawkins,  Commentary  (Hal- 
ifax. 1808, 8 vo) ; Jaspis,  A dnotatio  [includ.  Kev.]  (Lips. 
1816,  1821,  8vo) ; Paulus,  Erklarung  (Heidelberg,  1829, 
8vo);  Bickerstcth,  Exposition  [includ.  Jude]  (London, 
1846,  I2mo) ; Braune,  Auslegung  (Grim.  1847,  8vo); 
Mayer,  Commentar  (Wien,  1851, 8 vo)  ; Sander.  Commen- 
tar  (Elbcrf.  1851,  8vo);  Besser,  Auslegung  (Halle,  1851, 
1856, 1862,  1 2mo);  *Diisterdieck,  Commentar  (Gotting. 
1852-56,  2 vols.  8vo);  * I hit  her,  in  Meyer’s  JIandbuch 
(Getting.  1853, 1861,  8vo);  *Maurice,  Lectures  (Cambr. 
1857,  1867,  8vo). 

On  the  First  Epistle  alone  there  are  the  following : 
Augustine,  Tractutus  (in  Opp.  iv,  1091 ; tr.  into  French, 
Par.  1670, 12mo);  Luther,  Commentarius  (ed.  Neumann, 
Lips.  1708;  ed.  Bruns,  Lub.  1797,  8vo;  also  in  Germau, 
in  )Verke,  Lpz.  xi,  572;  Halle,  ix,  906);  (Ecolampadins, 
Homilue  (Basil.  1525,  8vo) ; Zwiugl e,  Annotations  (in 
Opp.  iv,  585) ; Tyndale,  Exposition  (London,  1531,  8vo; 
reprinted,  in  Expositions,  ib.  1829,  p.  145);  Megander, 
Adnotationes  [includ.  Hebrews]  (Tigur.  1539,  8vo) ; Fo- 
lcng,  Commentaria  (Venice,  1546, 8vo)  ; Beurlinus,  Com- 
mentarius (Tithing.  1571,  8vo);  Ilunnius,  Ena r ratio  (F. 
ad  M.  1586,  1592,  8vo) ; Ilcssels,  Commentarius  (Duaci, 
1599,  8vo);  Eckhard,  Disputationes  (Gics.  1609,  8vo); 
Socimis,  Commentarius  (Hacov.  1614,  8vo;  also  in  Opp. 
i,  157);  Egard,  Erklarung  (Gosl.  1628,  8vo);  Cundisius, 
Qiuestiones  (Jena,  1648,  i 698,  4to);  Roberts,  Evidences, 
etc.  (Lond.  1649,  8vo);  Mestrezat,  Exposition  (Fr.,  Ge- 
neve, 1651,  2 vols.  I2mo);  Cotton,  Commentary  (Lond. 
1656,  fol.);  Hardy,  Unfolding  [on  i-iii]  (Lond.  1656-9, 
2 vols.  4to) ; *S.  Schmid,  Commentarius  (F.  et  Lipsia?, 
1687, 1707, 1736,  4to);  Dorsche,  Disputationes  (Rostock, 
1697,  4to)  ; Spener,  Erklarung  (Halle,  1699,  1711,  4to); 
Zeller,  Predigten  (Lpz.  1709, 8vo) ; Marperger,  A uslegung 
(Numb.  1710,  4to) ; Oporinus,  Liberatio  (Getting.  1741, 
4to)  ; Frcylinghauscn,  Erklarung  (Halle,  1741,  8vo); 
Steinhofer,  Erklarung  (Tithing.  1762,  Hamb.  1848,  8vo) ; 
Carpzov,  Scholia  (Hclmstadt,  1773, 4to) ; Sender,  Para- 
phrasis (Riga,  1792,  12mo);  Hesselgren,  Prolegomena 
(Upsala,  1800,  8vo);  Weber,  De  authenfia,  etc.  (Hallo 


JOHN 


JOHN  954 


1823,  4 to);  Rickli,  Erlclarung  (Luz.  1828,  8vo);  Pierce, 
Sermon*  (Lone!.  1835. 2 vols.  8vo) ; Johamisen,  l'redvjten 
(Alton.  18-38,  8vo);  Paterson,  Commentary  (Lund.  184*2, 
ISmo) ; Thomas,  Etudes,  etc.  (Gen.  i849,  8vo) ; *Xean- 
der,  Eiiduierung  (Berl.  1851,  8vo;  tr.  into  Engl,  by  Mrs. 
Couant,  X.  V.  1852,  l2mo);  Erdmann,  A rgumenlum.  etc. 
(Berol.  1855,  8vo);  Graham,  Commentary  (Land.  1857, 
12mo)-,  Myrberg,  Commentarius  (Upsala,  1859,  8vo) ; 
Ilandcouk,  Exposition  (Edinburgh,  18(11, 8vo);  Candlish, 
Lectures  (Edinburgh,  1866,  8vo) ; Ilaupt,  Einleituny,  etc. 
(Colb.  18(19,  8vo).  .See  Epistles  (Catholic). 

JOHN,  SECOND  ani>  THIRD  EPISTLES  OF. 
The  title  catholic  does  not  properly  belong  to  the  2d 
and  3d  Epistles.  It  became  attached  to  them,  although 
addressed  to  individuals,  because  they  were  of  too  little 
importance  to  be  classed  by  themselves,  and,  so  far  as 
doctrine  went,  were  regarded  as  appendices  to  the  1st 
Epistle. 

I.  . t uthorship. — 1.  The  external  evidence  for  the  gen- 
uineness of  these  two  Epistles  is  less  copious  and  deci- 
sive than  that  for  the  1st  Epistle.  They  are  not  in  the 
Peshito  version,  which  shows  that  at  the  time  it  was  ex- 
ecuted they  were  not  recognised  by  the  Syrian  church- 
es; and  Eusebius  places  them  among  the  avTiXtyofitva 
(II.  E.  iii.  25).  See  Astilegomena.  The  11th  verse 
of  the  2d  Epistle,  however,  is  quoted  by  Irenceus  (/her. 

1,  1(1,  3)  as  a saying  of  John,  the  disciple  of  the  Lord, 
meaning  thereby,  without  doubt,  the  apostle.  Clement 
of  Alexandria  (Strom,  ii),  in  referring  to  John's  1st  Epis- 
tle, uses  the  words  Icodi >vt]Q  tv  nj  pti^ovi  imaroXy, 
which  shows  that  he  was  acquainted  with  at  least  two 
Epistles  of  John ; there  is  extant,  in  a Latin  translation, 
a commentary  bv  him  on  the  2d  Epistle;  and,  as  Euse- 
bius and  Photius  both  attest  that  he  wrote  commenta- 
ries on  all  the  secen  catholic  Epistles,  it  would  appear 
that  he  must  have  known  and  acknowledged  the  3d 
also.  If  the  Adumhratinnes  are  Clement's,  he  bears  di- 
rect testimony  to  the  2d  Epistle  (Adumbr.  p.  1011,  edit. 
Potter).  Origcn  sneaks  of  the  apostle  John  having 
left  a 2d  and  3d  Epiotle,  which,  however,  he  adds,  all  did 
not  accept  as  genuine  ( In  Joan.  ap.  Eusebius,  vi,  25). 
Dionysius  of  Alexandria  (ibid,  vii,  25)  recognises  them 
as  productions  of  the  same  John  who  wrote  the  Gospel 
and  the  1st  Epistle,  and  so  do  all  the  later  Alexandrian 
writers.  Eusebius  himself  elsewhere  refers  to  them 
(/tem.  Evany,  iii,  5)  without  hesitation  as  John's;  and  in 
the  synod  held  at  Carthage  ( A.  1).  256),  Aurelius,  bishop 
of  Chullahi,  continued  his  vote  by  citing  2 John  10  sq. 
as  the  language  of  the  apostle  John  (Cyprian,  Opp.  ii, 
120,  od.  OherthUr).  Ephrein  Syrus  speaks  of  them  in 
the  same  way  in  the  fourth  century.  In  the  fifth  cen- 
tury they  are  almost  universally  received.  A homily, 
wrongly  attributed  to  St. Chrysostom,  declares  them  un- 
cauonicnl.  1 n the  .1/ uratori  Fragment,  which,  however, 
in  the  part  relating  to  the  Epistles  of  John,  is  somewhat 
confused  or  apparently  vitiated,  there  are  at  least  two 
Epistles  of  John  recognised,  for  the  author  uses  the  plu- 
ral in  mentioning  John’s  Epistles.  In  all  the  later  cat- 
alogues, with  the  exception  of  the  Iambics  ad  Seleuntm, 
th.-v  are  inserted  with  the  other  canonical  hooks  of  the 
X.  T.  There  is  thus  a solid  body  of  evidence  in  favor 
of  the  genuineness  of  these  epistles.  That  they  were 
not  universally  known  and  received  is  probably  to  be 
accounted  for  by  their  character  as  private  letters  to  in- 
dividuals, which  would  naturally  he  longer  in  coming 
under  general  recognition  than  such  as  were  addressed 
to  . hurches  or  (he  Christians  of  a district. 

1 he  only  antagonistic  testimony  which  has  reached  us 
from  antiquity  is  that  of  Jerome,  who  says  ( I)e  rir.  Illust. 
ix,  18  that  both  epistles  were  commonly  reputed  to  be 
the  production,  not  of  John  the  apostle,  hut  of  John  the 
presbyter,  confirmed  by  the  statement  of  Eusebius  (iii, 

2. »)  that  it  was  doubtful  whether  they  were  the  produc- 
tion of  the  evangelist  or  of  another  John.  On  this  it 
may  be  observed,  I.  That  the  statement  of  Jerome  is 
certainly  not  true  in  its  full  extent,  for  there  is  evidence 
enough  that  both  ni  his  own  time  and  before,  as  well  as 


I after  it,  the  general  belief,  both  in  the  Latin  and  the 
1 Greek  churches,  was  that  they  were  written  hv  John 
I the  apostle.  2.  Both  Jerome  and  Eusebius  concur  in  at- 
testing that  all  ascribed  these  Epistles  either  to  John 
the  apostle  or  John  the  presbyter  as  their  author,  which 
may  be  accepted  as  convincing  evidence  that  they  are 
not  forgeries  of  an  age  later  than  that  of  the  apostle. 
3.  The  question  being  between  John  the  apostle  and 
John  the  presbyter,  we  may,  without  laying  stress  on 
the  fact  that  the  existence  of  the  latter  is,  to  say  the 
least,  involved  in  doubt  [see  John  the  Presdyter], 
call  attention  to  the  consideration  that,  whilst  the  use  of 
the  expression  6 Trpeafivrtpog  by  the  writer  of  the  2d 
Epistle  may  have  given  rise  to  the  report  which  Jerome 
and  Eusebius  attest,  there  lies  in  this  a strong  evidence 
that  the  writer  was  John  the  apostle,  and  not  John  the 
presbyter;  for  it  is  quite  credible  that  the  former,  writ- 
ing in  his  old  age,  should  employ  the  term  TrptafivTspog 
to  express  this  fact  just  as  Paul  does  (Philem.  9),  and  as 
Peter  does  (1  Epist.  v,  1),  whereas  it  is  incredible  that  the 
latter,  with  whom  presbyter  was  a title  of  office,  should, 
in  writing  a letter  to  an  individual,  designate  himself 
thus,  inasmuch  as,  the  office  being  common  to  him  with 
many  others,  the  title,  in  the  absence  of  his  name,  was 
no  designation  at  all,  to  say  nothing  of  the  fact  that 
there  is  no  evidence  that  the  members  of  tine  TrpeofSv- 
tijoiov  in  the  primitive  churches  ever  received  Trpta- 
fioTtpog  as  a title,  any  more  than  the  members  of  the 
Church,  though  collectively  oi  ttyioi  and  oi  ddtX<poi,  re- 
ceived individually  uywq  or  dctXtyuc  as  a title  (see  be- 
low). On  these  grounds  there  seems  to  he  no  reason  for 
attaching  much  importance  to  the  opinion  or  tradition 
reported  by  Jerome,  though  it  has  been  adopted  by  Eras- 
mus, Grotius,  Credner,  Jachmann  (Comm.  iib.  d.  Kathol. 
Hr.),  and  more  recently  by  Ebrard  (Olshausen,  Comment. 
vi,  4,  E.  T.  vol.  x,  and  in  II erzog,  Encyc.  vi,  736).  A late 
writer  (Williclien,  Der  geschichtliche  Ckarakter  des  Ev. 
Joh.  Elberf.  1869)  holds  that  tlie  2d  and  3d  Epistles  are 
the  production  of  disciples  of  John  the  apostle. 

2.  If  the  external  testimony  is  not  as  decisive  as  we 
might  wish,  the  internal  evidence  is  peculiarly  strong. 
Mill  has  pointed  out  that  of  the  thirteen  verses  which 
compose  the  2d  Epistle,  eight  are  to  be  found  in  the  1st 
Epistle.  Either,  then,  the  2d  Epistle  proceeded  from 
the  same  author  as  the  1st,  or  from  a conscious  fabri- 
cator who  desired  to  pass  off  something  of  his  own  as 
the  production  of  the  apostle;  but,  if  the  latter  alterna- 
tive had  been  true,  the  fabricator  in  question  would  as- 
suredly have  assumed  the  title  of  John  the  apostle  in- 
stead of  merely  designating  himself  as  John  the  elder , 
and  he  would  have  introduced  some  doctrine  which  it 
would  have  been  his  object  to  make  popular.  The  title 
and  contents  of  the  Epistle  are  strong  arguments  against 
a fabricator,  whereas  they  would  account  for  its  non- 
universal  reception  in  early  times;  and  if  not  the  work 
of  a fabricator,  it  must,  from  style,  diction,  and  tone  of 
thought,  be  the  work  of  the  author  of  the  1st  Epistle, 
and,  we  may  add,  of  the  Gospel.  The  private  nature 
of  their  contents  removes  also  the  suspicion  that  they 
could  have  been  forged,  since  it  would  be  difficult  to 
discover  any  purpose  which  could  have  led  to  such  a 
forgery. 

The  reason  why  John  designates  himself  as  rrptofiv- 
rtpoq  rather  than  ottootoXoc  (2  Epist.  1 ; 3 Epist.  1)  is 
no  doubt  the  same  as  that  which  made  Peter  designate 
himself  by  the  same  title  (1  Pet.  a*,  1),  and  which  caused 
James  and  Jude  to  give  themselves  no  other  title  than 
“the  servant  of  God  and  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ” 
(James  i,  1).  “the  servant  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  brother 
of  James”  (Jude  1).  Paul  had  a special  object  in  de- 
claring himself  an  apostle.  Those  who  belonged  to  the 
original  Twelve  had  no  such  necessity  imposed  upon 
them.  With  them  it  was  a matter  of  indifference 
whether  they  employed  the  name  of  apostle,  like  Peter 
(1  Per.  i.l,  2 Pet.  i.  i)  , or  adopted  an  appellation  which 
they  shared  with  others,  like  John,  and  James,  and  Jude. 
See  Elder. 


JOHN- 


955 


JOHN 


II.  The  second  Epistle  is  addressed  to  one  whom  the 
writer  calls  ifrXf/cn)  Kvpta.  This  has  been  differently 
understood.  By  some  it  has  been  regarded  as  desig- 
nating the  Church  collectively,  by  others  as  designating 
a particular  congregation,  and  by  others  as  denoting  an 
individual.  This  expression  cannot  mean  the  Church 
(Jerome),  nor  a particular  church  (Cassiodorus),nor  the 
elect  Church  which  comes  together  on  Sundays  (Micha- 
elis),  nor  the  Church  of  Philadelphia  (Whiston),  nor  the 
Church  of  Jerusalem  (Whitby).  These  opinions  are 
rendered  improbable  partly  by  the  reference,  in  verse  11 
to  the  children , and  in  verse  13  to  the  sister  of  the  party 
addressed,  partly  by  the  want  of  any  authority  for  such 
a usage  of  the  term  Kvpta  as  would  thus  be  imputed  to 
the  apostle.  By  those  who  understand  this  of  an  indi- 
vidual there  are  three  renderings : according  to  one  in- 
terpretation she  is  “the  lady  Electa;’’  to  another,  “the 
elect  Kvria to  a third,  “ the  elect  lady.”  The  first  in- 
terpretation is  that  of  Clement  of  Alexandria  (if  the 
passage  above  referred  to  in  the  Adumbrationes  be  his), 
Wctstein,Grotius,  Middleton;  the  second  is  that  of  Ben- 
son, Carpzov,  Schlcusncr,  Heumanu,  Bengel,  llosenmUl- 
ler,  De  Wette,  Lucke,  Neander,  Davidson  ; the  third  is 
the  rendering  of  the  English  version,  Mill,  Wall,  Wolf, 
Le  Clcrc,  Lardner,  Beza,  Eiclihorn,  Newcome,  Wakefield, 
Mackniglit.  For  the  rendering  “ the  lady  Electa”  to  be 
right,  the  word  Kvpiy  must  have  preceded  (as  in  modern 
Greek)  the  word  i/cXetery,  not  followed  it ; and,  further, 
the  last  verse  of  the  Epistle,  in  which  her  sister  is  also 
spoken  of  as  hcXticn),  is  fatal  to  the  hypothesis.  The 
rendering  “the  elect  lady”  is  probably  wrong,  because 
there  is  no  article  before  the  adjective  itcXacnj.  It  re- 
mains that  the  rendering  “the  elect  Kyria”  is  probably 
right,  though  here  too  we  should  have  expected  the  ar- 
ticle— as,  indeed,  we  should  under  any  of  the  three  ren- 
derings (though  the  rendering  “an  elect  lady”  is  not 
demanded ; see  Alford,  Gr.  Test.  vol.  v,  prolegg.).  The 
choice,  therefore,  being  between  the  last  two  of  these 
renderings,  two  circumstances  seem  to  be  decisive  in  fa- 
vor of  the  former  : Kyria  occurs  elsewhere  as  a proper 
name  [see  Cyria];  and  that  itcXacn)  is  to  be  taken  in 
its  usual  signification  is  rendered  probable  by  its  being 
applied  in  verse  13  to  the  sister  of  the  party  addressed. 
See  Electa. 

At  the  time  of  writing  this  Epistle  the  apostle  was 
with  the  sister  of  the  lady  addressed,  but  expresses  a 
hope  ere  long  to  see  the  latter,  and  converse  with  her 
on  matters  of  which  he  could  not  then  write.  From 
this  we  may  infer  either  that  the  apostle  was  at  the 
time  on  a journey  from  which  he  expected  ere  long  to 
return,  or  that  the  lady  in  question  resided  not  very  far 
from  his  usual  residence,  and  that  he  intended  soon  to 
pay  her  a visit.  Adopting  the  latter  hypothesis  as  the 
more  probable,  and  viewing  it  in  connection  with  the 
apostle’s  styling  himself  TrptoflvrtpoG,  we  may  infer 
that  the  Epistle  was  written  at  a late  period  of  the 
apostle’s  life. 

The  object  of  the  apostle  in  writing  the  2d  Epistle 
was  to  warn  the  lady  to  whom  he  wrote  against  abetting 
the  teaching  known  as  that  of  Basilides  and  his  follow- 
ers, by  perhaps  an  undue  kindness  displayed  by  her  to- 
wards the  preachers  of  the  false  doctrine.  After  the  in- 
troductory salutation,  the  apostle  at  once  urges  on  his 
correspondent  the  great  principle  of  love,  which  with 
him  (as  we  have  before  seen)  means  right  affection 
springing  from  right  faith,  and  issuing  in  right  conduct. 
The  immediate  consequence  of  the  possession  of  this 
love  is  the  abhorrence  of  heretical  misbelief,  because  the 
latter,  being  incompatible  with  right  faith,  is  destructive 
of  the  producing  cause  of  love,  and  therefore  of  love 
itself.  This  is  the  secret  of  John’s  strong  denunciation 
of  the  “ deceiver,”  whom  he  designates  as  “Antichrist.” 
Love  is  with  him  the  essence  of  Christianity,  but  love  i 
can  spring  only  from  right  faith.  Wrong  belief,  there- 
fore, destroys  love,  and  with  it  Christianity.  Therefore 
says  he,  “ If  there  come  any  unto  you  and  bring  not  this 
doctrine,  receive  him  not  into  your  house,  neither  bid  | 


him  God  speed,  for  he  that  biddeth  him  God  speed  is 
partaker  of  his  evil  deeds”  (2  Epist.  10, 11). 

III.  The  tim'd  Epistle  is  addressed  to  Caius,  a Chris- 
tian brother  noted  for  his  hospitality  to  the  saints. 
Whether  this  be  one  of  those  mentioned  elsewhere  in 
the  N.  T.  by  this  name  is  uncertain;  he  may  have  been 
the  same  mentioned  Acts  xix,  28.  See  Gaius.  The 
apostle  writes  for  the  purpose  of  commending  to  the 
kindness  and  hospitality  of  Caius  some  Christians  who 
were  strangers  in  the  place  where  he  lived.  It  is  prob- 
able that  these  Christians  carried  this  letter  with  them 
to  Caius  as  their  introduction.  It  would  appear  that 
the  object  of  the  travellers  was  to  preach  the  Gospel  to 
the  Gentiles  without  money  and  without  price  (3  Epist. 
7).  The  apostle  had  already  written  to  the  ecclesias- 
tical authorities  of  the  place  (typa\f,a,  vcr.  9,  not  “scrip- 
sissem,”  as  the  Yulg.),  but  they,  at  the  instigation  of 
Diotrephes,  had  refused  to  receive  the  missionary  breth- 
ren, and  therefore  the  apostle  now  commends  them  to 
the  care  of  a layman.  It  is  probable  that  Diotrephes 
was  a leading  presbyter  who  held  Judaizing  views,  and 
woidd  not  give  assistance  to  men  who  were  going  about 
with  the  purpose  of  preaching  solely  to  the  Gentiles. 
The  apostle  intimates  the  probability  of  his  soon  per- 
sonally visiting  the  church,  when  he  would  deal  with 
Diotrephes  for  his  misconduct,  and  would  communicate 
to  Caius  many  things  of  which  he  could  not  then  write. 
In  the  mean  time  he  exhorts  him  to  follow  that  which 
is  good,  commends  one  Demetrius,  and  concludes  with 
benediction  and  salutation.  Whether  this  Demetrius 
(ver.  12)  was  a tolerant  presbyter  of  the  same  commu- 
nity, whose  example  John  holds  up  as  worthy  of  com- 
mendation in  contradistinction  to  that  of  Diotrephes,  or 
W'hether  he  wras  one  of  the  strangers  who  bore  the  letter, 
we  are  now  unable  to  determine. 

From  their  general  similarity,  we  may  conjectnre  that 
the  two  epistles  were  written  shortly  after  the  1st  Epis- 
tle from  Ephesus.  They  both  apply  to  individual  cases 
of  conduct  the  principles  v hich  had  been  laid  dowrn  in 
their  fulness  in  the  1st  Epistle. — Kitto;  Smith. 

IV.  Commentaries. — The  following  are  the  exegetical 
helps  on  the  whole  of  both  the  latter  epistles  exclusive- 
ly, in  addition  to  those  noticed  above:  Jones,  Commen- 
tary [including  Philcm. etc.]  (Lond.  1035, fol.);  Smith, 
Exposition  [on  2d  Epistle]  (Lond.  1063,  4to) ; Sonntag, 
Hypomnemata  (Altorf,  1G97,  8vo)  ; Feustking,  Cotnmen- 
tarins  (Yitcmb.  1707,  fol.);  Verpoorten,  Exercitutioncs 
(Gedan.  1741, 4to)  ; Heumann,  Commentar  [on  3d  Epist.] 
(Helmst.  1778, 8vo) ; M idler, Commevtarius  [on2d  Epist.] 
(Schleiz,  1783, 4to) ; Sommel,  Jsagoge  (Lond.  1798, 4to) ; 
Bambonnet,  Specimen,  etc.  [on  2d  Epistle]  (Tr.  ad  Iih. 
1818,  8vo) ; Gachon,  Authenticite,  etc.  (Montaub.  1851, 
8vo) ; Cox,  Private  Letters  of  Sts.  Paul  and  John  (Lond. 
1807, 8vo).  See  Commentary. 

JOHN,  REVELATION  OF.  See  Revelation. 

John  the  Baptist  (’lojcivvpQ  6 jiairriariiQ,  or  simply 
’I utavvijc,  when  the  reference  is  clear,  as  in  Matt.  iii,4; 
iv,  12;  Lat.  Joannes  [Tacitus,  Ilist.  v,  12]  ; Ileb. 
denoting  grace,  or  favor  [see  Simonis,Lca-.  N.  T.  p.513]). 
In  the  Church  John  commonly  bears  the  honorable  title 
of  “ forerunner  of  the  Lord” — antecursor  et  pneparator 
vianim  Domini  (Tertull.  adr.Marc.  iv,  33);  in  Greek, 
TTpUpopoq,  TrpodyytXoQ  Kup/oii.  The  accounts  of  him 
which  the  Gospels  present  are  fragmentary  and  imper- 
fect; the}'  involve,  too,  some  difficulties  which  the 
learned  have  found  it  hard  to  remove;  yet  enough  is 
given  to  show'  that  he  was  a man  of  a lofty  character, 
and  that  the  relation  in  which  he  stood  to  Christianity 
wras  one  of  great  importance.  Indeed,  according  to  our 
Lord’s  own  testimony,  he  was  a more  honored  character 
and  distinguished  saint  than  any  prophet  w ho  had  pre- 
ceded him  (Luke  vii,  28).  See  Prophet. 

1.  John  was  of  the  priestly  race  by  both  parents,  for 
his  father  Zacharias  was  himself  a priest  of  the  course 
of  Abia,  or  Abijah  (1  Chron.  xxiv,  10),  offering  incense 
at  the  very  time  when  a son  was  promised  to  him  ; and 


JOHN 


JOHN  956 


Elizabeth  was  of  the  daughters  of  Aaron  (Luke  i,  5), 
the  latter  "a  cousin”  (<ruyyua)c,  relative ) of  Mary,  the 
mother  of  Jesus,  whose  senior  John  was  by  a period  of 
six  months  (Luke  i).  Loth  parents,  too,  were  devout 
persons,  walking  in  the  commandments  of  God,  a.nd 
waiting  for  the  fulfilment  of  his  promise  to  Israel.  The 
divine  mission  of  John  was  the  subject  of  prophecy 
many  centuries  before  his  birth,  for  Matthew  (iii,  3) 
tolls  us  that  it  was  John  who  was  prefigured  by  Isaiah 
as  “ the  voice  of  one  crying  in  the  wilderness,  Prepare 
Ve  the  way  of  the  Lord,  make  his  paths  straight  ’ (Isa. 
xl,  3),  while  by  the  prophet  Malaehi  the  Spirit  announ- 
ces more  definitely,  “ Behold,  I will  send  my  messenger, 
and  he  shall  prepare  the  way  before  me”  (iii,  1).  His 
birth— a birth  not  according  to  the  ordinary  laws  of  na- 
ture, but  through  the  miraculous  interposition  of  Al- 
mighty power — was  foretold  by  an  angel  sent  from  God, 
who  announced  it  as  an  occasion  of  joy  and  gladness  to 
many,  and  at  the  same  time  assigned  to  him  the  name 
of  John,  to  signify  either  that  he  was  to  be  born  of  God’s 
especial  favor,  or,  perhaps,  that  he  was  to  be  the  har- 
binger of  grace.  The  angel  Gabriel,  moreover,  pro- 
claimed the  character  and  office  of  this  wonderful  child 
even  before  his  conception,  foretelling  that  he  would  be 
filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost  from  the  first  moment  of  his 
existence,  and  appear  as  the  great  reformer  of  his  coun- 
trymen—another  Elijah  in  the  boldness  with  which  he 
would  speak  truth  and  rebuke  vice — but,  above  all,  as 
the  chosen  forerunner  and  herald  of  the  long-expected 
Messiah.  These  marvellous  revelations  as  to  the  char- 
acter and  career  of  the  son  for  w hom  he  had  so  long 
prayed  in  vain  were  too  much  for  the  faith  of  the  aged 
Zacharias,  and,  when  he  sought  some  assurance  of  the 
certainty  of  the  promised  blessing,  God  gave  it  to  him 
in  a judgment— the  privation  of  speech — until  the  event 
foretold  should  happen— a judgment  intended  to  serve 
at  once  as  a token  of  God’s  truth  and  a rebuke  of  his 
own  incredulity.  And  now  the  Lord’s  gracious  promise 
tarried  not.  Elizabeth,  for  greater  privacy,  retired  into 
the  hill-country,  whither  she  was  soon  afterwards  fol- 
lowed by  her  kinswoman  Mary,  w ho  was  herself  the  ob- 
ject and  channel  of  divine  grace  beyond  measure  great- 
er and  more  mysterious.  The  two  cousins,  w?ho  were 
thus  honored  above  all  the  mothers  of  Israel,  came  to- 
gether in  a remote  city,  and  immediately  God's  pur- 
pose was  confirmed  to  them  by  a miraculous  sign ; for, 
as  soon  as  Elizabeth  heard  the  salutations  of  Mary,  the 
babe  leaped  in  her  womb,  thus  acknowledging,  as  it 
were,  even  before  birth,  the  presence  of  his  Lord  (Luke 
i, 43, 41).  Three  months  after  this,  and  while  Mary  still 
remained  with  her,  Elizabeth  was  delivered  of  a son, 
L.C.  (5.  '1  he  exact  spot  where  John  was  born  is  not  de- 
termined. The  rabbins  (Otlio,  Lex.  Babb.  p.  324 ; Witsii 
Miscell.  Sacr.  ii,  3S9)  fix  on  Hebron,  in  the  hill-country 
of  Judiea ; raulns,  Kninoel,  and  Meyer,  after  Reland,  are 
in  favor  of  Jutta,  “ a city  of  Juda.”  See  Juttah.  On 
the  eighth  day  the  child  of  promise  was,  in  conformitv 
w ith  the  law  of  Moses  (Lev.  xii,  3),  brought  to  the  priest 
for  circumcision,  and,  as  the  performance  of  this  rite  was 
the  accustomed  time  for  naming  a child,  the  friends  of 
the  family  proposed  to  call  him  Zacharias,  after  the 
name  of  his  father.  The  mother,  however,  required 
that  lie.  should  be  called  John,  a decision  which  Zacha- 
rias, still  speechless,  confirmed  by  writing  on  a tablet, 
“his  name  is  John.”  The  judgment  on  his  want  of 
faith  was  then  at  once  withdrawn,  and  the  first  use 
w hich  he  made  of  his  recovered  speech  was  to  praise 
Jehovan  for  his  faithfulness  and  merev  (Luke  i,  (54). 
God’s  wonderful  interposition  in  the  birth  of  John  had 
impressed  the  minds  of  many  with  a certain  solemn  awe 
and  expectation  (Luke  iii,  15).  God  was  surely  again 
visaing  his  people.  Ilia  providence,  so  long  hidden, 
seemed  once  more  about  to  manifest  itself.  The  child 
thus  supematurally  born  must  doubtless  be  commission- 
ed to  perform  some  important  part  in  the  history  of  the 
chosen  people.  Could  it  be  the  Messiah  ? Could  it  be 
Elijah  V Was  the  era  of  their  old  prophets  about  to  be 


restored?  With  such  grave  thoughts  were  the  minds 
of  the  people  occupied  as  they  mused  on  the  events 
w-hich  had  been  passing  under  their  eyes,  and  said  one 
to  another,  “ What  manner  of  child  shall  this  be  ?”  while 
Zacharias  himself,  “filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost,”  broke 
forth  in  a glorious  strain  of  praise  and  prophecy  — a 
strain  in  which  it  is  to  be  observed  that  the  father,  be- 
fore speaking  of  his  own  child,  blesses  God  for  remem- 
bering his  covenant  and  promise  in  the  redemption  and 
salvation  of  his  people  through  him  of  whom  his  owrn 
son  was  the  prophet  and  forerunner.  A single  verse 
contains  all  that  we  know  of  John’s  history  for  a space 
of  thirty  years,  the  whole  period  which  elapsed  between 
his  birth  and  the  commencement  of  his  public  ministry : 
“The  child  grew  and  waxed  strong  in  the  spirit,  and 
was  in  the  deserts  till  the  day  of  his  showing  unto  Is- 
rael” (Luke  i,  SO).  John,  it  will  be  remembered,  was  or- 
dained to  be  a Xazarite  (see  Numb,  vi,  1-21)  from  his 
birth,  for  the  words  of  the  angel  were,  “ He  shall  drink 
neither  wine  nor  strong  drink”  (Luke  i,  15).  What  we 
are  to  understand  by  this  brief  announcement  is  proba- 
bly this:  the  chosen  forerunner  of  the  Messiah  and  her- 
ald of  his  kingdom  was  required  to  forego  the  ordinary 
pleasures  and  indulgences  of  the  world,  and  live  a life 
of  the  strictest  self-denial  in  retirement  and  solitude. 
The  apocryphal  Protev.  Jae.  ch.  xxii,  states  that  his 
mother,  in  order  to  rescue  her  son  from  the  murder  of 
the  children  at  Bethlehem  which  Herod  commanded, 
fied  with  him  into  the  desert.  She  could  find  no  place 
of  refuge ; the  mountain  opened  at  her  request,  f.nd  gave 
the  needed  shelter  in  its  bosom.  Zacharias,  being  ques- 
tioned by  Herod  as  to  where  his  son  was  to  be  found, 
and  refusing  to  answer,  was  slain  by  the  tyrant.  At  a 
later  period  Elizabeth  died,  when  angels  took  the  youth 
under  their  care  (Fabricius,  Cod.  Apocryph.  p.  117  sq. ; 
comp.  Kuhn,  Leben  Jesu,  i,  163,  remark  4).  It  was  thus 
that  the  holy  Xazarite,  dwelling  by  himself  in  the  wild 
and  thinly-peopled  region  westward  of  the  Dead  Sea, 
called  “ desert”  in  the  text,  prepared  himself  by  self-dis- 
cipline, and  by  constant  communion  with  God,  for  the 
wonderful  office  to  which  he  had  been  divinely  called. 
Here  year  after  year  of  his  stern  probation  passed  by, 
till  the  time  for  the  fulfilment  of  his  mission  arrived. 
The  very  appearance  of  the  holy  Baptist  was  of  itself  a 
lesson  to  his  countrymen ; his  dress  was  that  of  the  old 
prophets — a garment  woven  of  camel’s  hair  (2  Kings  i, 
8),  attached  to  the  body  by  a leathern  girdle.  His  food 
was  such  as  the  desert  spontaneously  afforded — locusts 
(Lev.  xi,  22)  and  wild  honey  (Psa.  lxxxi.  16)  from  the 
rock.  (See  Endemann,  I)e  victu  Jo.  Bapt.  Hersfeld,  1752 ; 
Thadd.  a St.  Adamo,  l)e  victu  Joa.  Bapt.  in  desertu,  Bonn, 
17«5;  Muller,  Varia  de  victu  Joa.  Baptist.  Bonn,  1829; 
Hackett,  Illustr.  of  Script,  p.  96.)  Desert  though  the 
place  is  designated,  the  country  where  he  spent  these 
early  years — the  wild  mountainous  tract  of  Judah,  lying 
between  Jerusalem  and  the  Dead  Sea,  along  which  it 
stretches — was  not  entirely  destitute  of  means  for  sup- 
porting human  existence  (Matt,  iii,  1-12;  Mark  i,  1-8; 
Luke  iii,  1-20;  John  x,  28;  Justin  Martyr,  Dial,  cum 
Tryph.  c.  8.S).  Josephus,  in  his  Life  (ii,  2),  gives  an 
account  of  one  of  his  instructors,  Banus,  which  throws 
light  on  John’s  condition  in  the  desert:  “He  lived  in 
the  desert,  and  had  no  other  food  than  what  grew  of  its 
own  accord,  and  bathed  himself  in  cold  water  frequent- 
ly, both  by  night  and  by  day.  I imitated  him  in  these 
things,  and  continued  with  him  three  years.”  Some 
writers  infer  that  John  was  ail  Essene;  so  says,  e.  g. 
Taylor,  editor  of  Calmet’s  Dictionary  of  the  Bible;  comp. 
Johnson,  Monks  before  Christ  (Bost.  1870, 12mo),  p.  109 
sq.  But  this  is  denied  by  Henan,  Vie  de  Jesus  (13th  ed. 
Paris,  1867),  p.  101  sq. 

2.  At  length,  in  the  fifteenth  year  of  the  associate 
reign  of  the  emperor  Tiberius  (see  Jarvis,  Chron.  Introd. 
p.  228  sq.,  462  sq.),  or  A.D.  25,  the  long-secluded  hermit 
came  forth  to  the  discharge  of  his  office.  His  supernat- 
ural birth,  his  hard  ascetic  life,  his  reputation  for  ex- 
traordinary sanctity,  and  the  generally-prevailing  ex- 


JOHN 


057 


JOHN 


pectation  that  some  great  one  was  about  to  appear — 
these  causes,  without  the  aid  of  miraculous  power,  for 
“John  did  no  miracle”  (John  x,  41),  were  sufficient  to 
attract  to  him  a great  multitude  from  “ every  quarter” 
(Matt,  iii,  5).  Brief  and  startling  was  his  first  exhorta- 
tion to  them — “ Repent  ye,  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
is  at  hand.”  A few  scores  of  verses  contain  all  that  is 
recorded  of  John’s  preaching,  and  the  sum  of  it  all  is  re- 
pentance— not  mere  legal  ablution  or  expiation,  but  a 
change  of  heart  and  life.  Herein  John,  though  exhib- 
iting a marked  contrast  to  the  scribes  and  Pharisees 
of  his  own  time,  was  but  repeating,  with  the  stimulus 
of  a new  and  powerful  motive,  the  lessons  which  had 
been  again  and  again  impressed  upon  them  by  their 
ancient  prophets  (comp.  Isa.  i,  1 (5, 17 ; lv,  7 ; Jer.  vii,  3-7 ; 
Ezek.  xviii,  19-32,  xxxvi,  25-27 , Joel  ii,  12, 13 ; Micah 
vi,  8 ; Zech.  i,  3,  4).  But,  while  such  was  his  solemn 
admonition  to  the  multitude  at  large,  he  adopted  to- 
wards the  leading  sects  of  the  Jews  a severer  tone,  de- 
nouncing Pharisees  and  Sadducees  alike  as  “a  genera- 
tion of  vipers,”  and  warning  them  of  the  folly  of  trust- 
ing to  external  privileges  as  descendants  of  Abraham 
(Luke  iii,  8).  Now,  at  last,  he  warns  them  that  “the 
axe  was  laid  to  the  root  of  the  tree,”  that  formal  right- 
eousness would  l»e  tolerated  no  longer,  and  that  none 
would  be  acknowledged  for  children  of  Abraham  but 
such  as  did  the  works  of  Abraham  (comp.  John  viii.  39). 
Such  alarming  declarations  produced  their  effect,  and 
many  of  every  class  pressed  forward  to  confess  their  sins 
and  to  be  baptized. 

What,  then,  was  the  baptism  which  John  adminis- 
tered ? See  Washing.  (Comp.  Olshausen,  Comment,  ad 
loc.  Joh. ; Dale,  Johunnic  Baptism , Phila.  1871.)  Not  al- 
together a new  rite,  for  it  was  the  custom  of  the  Jews  to 
baptize  proselytes  to  their  religion ; not  an  ordinance  in 
itself  conveying  remission  of  sins,  but  rather  a token  and 
symbol  of  that  repentance  which  was  an  indispensable 
condition  of  forgiveness  through  him  whom  John  point- 
ed out  as  “the  Lamb  of  God  that  taketli  away  the  sins 
of  the  world.”  Still  less  did  the  baptism  of  John  impart 
the  grace  of  regeneration — of  a new  spiritual  life  (Acts 
xix,  3, 4).  This  was  to  be  the  mysterious  effect  of  bap- 
tism “ with  the  Holy  Ghost,”  which  was  to  be  ordained 
by  that  “mightier  one”  whose  coming  he  proclaimed. 
The  preparatory  baptism  of  John  was  a visible  sign  to 
the  people,  and  a distinct  acknowledgment  by  them  that 
a hearty  renunciation  of  sin  and  a real  amendment  of 
life  were  necessary  for  admission  into  the  kingdom  of 
heaven,  which  the  Baptist  proclaimed  to  be  at  hand. 
But  the  fundamental  distinction  between  John’s  bap- 
tism unto  repentance  and  that  baptism  accompanied 
with  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Spirit  which  our  Lord  af- 
terwards ordained  is  clearly  marked  by  John  himself 
(Matt,  iii,  1 1 , 12).  See  Baptism  of  John.  As  a preach- 
er, John  was  eminently  practical  and  discriminating. 
Self-love  and  covetousness  were  the  prevalent  sins  of 
the  people  at  large  on  them,  therefore,  he  enjoined 
charity  and  consideration  for  others.  The  publicans  he 
cautioned  against  extortion,  the  soldiers  against  vio- 
lence and  plunder.  His  answers  to  them  are,  no  doubt, 
to  be  regarded  as  instances  of  the  appropriate  warning 
and  advice  which  he  addressed  to  every  class.  The 
first  reason  assigned  by  John  for  entering  on  his  most 
weighty  and  perilous  office  was  announced  in  these 
words:  “The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand.”  It  was 
his  great  work  to  prepare  the  mind  of  the  nation,  so 
that  when  Jesus  himself  came  they  might  be  a people 
made  ready  for  the  Lord.  "What  was  the  exact  idea 
which  John  intended  to  convey  by  the  term  “kingdom 
of  heaven”  it  is  not  easy,  at  least  in  the  space  before  us, 
to  determine  with  satisfaction.  (See  Richter.  lie  munere 
sacro  Joarmi  Bapf.  divinitus  dele  rj a to,  Lips.  1756.)  We 
feel  ourselves,  however,  justified  in  protesting  against 
the  practice  of  those  who  take  the  vulgar  Jewish  notion 
and  ascribe  it  to  John,  while  some  go  so  far  as  to  deny 
that  our  Lord  himself,  at  the  first,  possessed  any  other. 
Had  we  space  to  develop  the  moral  character  of  John, 


we  could  show  that  this  fine,  stern,  high-minded  teacher 
possessed  many  eminent  qualities;  but  his  personal  and 
official  modesty  in  keeping,  in  all  circumstances,  in  the 
lower  rank  assigned  him  by  God  must  not  pass  without 
special  mention.  The  doctrine  and  manner  of  life  of 
John  appear  to  have  roused  the  entire  of  the  south  of 
Palestine,  and  people  Hocked  from  all  parts  to  the  spot 
where,  on  the  banks  of  the  Jordan,  he  baptized  thou- 
sands unto  repentance.  Such,  indeed,  was  the  fame 
which  he  had  gained,  that  “people  were  in  expectation, 
and  all  men  mused  in  tlicir  hearts  of  John,  whether  he 
were  the  Christ  or  not”  (Luke  iii,  15).  Had  he  chosen, 
John  might  without  doubt  have  assumed  to  himself  the 
higher  office,  and  risen  to  great  worldly  power ; but  he 
was  faithful  to  his  trust,  and  never  failed  to  declare,  in 
t Be  fullest  and  clearest  manner,  that  he  was  not  the 
Christ,  but  merely  his  harbinger,  and  that  the  sole  work 
he  had  to  do  was  to  usher  in  the  day-spring  from  on 
high.  (See  Beecher,  Life  of  Jesus , vol.  i,  ch.  v.) 

The  more  than  prophetic  fame  of  the  Baptist  reached 
the  ears  of  Jesus  in  his  Nazarcne  dwelling,  far  distant 
from  the  locality  of  John  (Matt,  ii,  9, 11).  The  nature 
of  the  report— namely,  that  his  divinely-predicted  fore- 
runner had  appeared  in  Jud:va — showed  our  Lord  that 
the  time  had  now  come  for  his  being  made  manifest  to 
Israel.  The  mission  of  the  baptist—  an  extraordinary 
one  for  an  extraordinary  purpose — was  not  limited  to 
those  who  had  openly  forsaken  the  covenant  of  God, 
and  so  forfeited  its  principles;  it  was  to  the  whole  peo- 
ple alike.  This  we  must  infer  from  the  baptism  of  one 
who  had  no  confession  to  make,  and  no  sins  to  wash 
away.  Jesus  himself  came  from  Galilee  to  Jordan  to 
be  baptized  of  John,  on  the  special  ground  that  it  be- 
came him  “to  fulfil  all  righteousness,”  and,  as  man,  to 
submit  to  the  customs  and  ordinances  which  were  bind- 
ing upon  the  rest  of  the  Jewish  people.  John,  however, 
naturally  at  first  shrank  from  offering  the  symbols  of 
purity  to  the  sinless  Son  of  God.  Immediately  on  the 
termination  of  this  symbolical  act,  a divine  attestation 
was  given  from  the  opened  vault  of  heaven,  declaring 
Jesus  to  be  in  truth  the  long  looked-for  Messiah — “This 
is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I am  well  pleased”  (Matt, 
iii,  17).  The  events  which  are  found  recorded  in  John 
i,  19  sq.  seem  to  have  happened  after  the  baptism  of  Je- 
sus by  John.  See  J esus  Christ. 

Here  a difficidt  question  arises — How  is  John’s  ac- 
knowledgment of  Jesus  at  the  moment  of  his  presenting 
himself  for  baptism  compatible  with  his  subsequent  as- 
sertion that  he  knew  him  not  save  by  the  descent  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  upon  him,  which  took  place  after  his  bap- 
tism? It  is  difficult  to  imagine  that  the  two  cousins 
diil  not  personally  recognise  each  other,  from  their  close 
relationship,  and  the  account  which  John  could  not  have 
failed  to  receive  of  the  remarkable  circumstances  attend- 
ing Jesus’s  birth ; hence  his  general  deference  at  that 
time,  but  his  explicit  testimony  subsequently  (see  Kui- 
nol,  Alford,  Comment,  on  Matt,  iii,  14).  The  supposition 
that  John  was  not  personally  acquainted  with  Jesus  is 
therefore  out  of  the  question  (see  Lilcke,  Comment,  on 
John  i,  31).  Yet  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  their 
places  of  residence  were  at  the  two  extremities  of  the 
country,  with  but  little  means  of  communication  be- 
tween them.  Perhaps,  too,  John’s  special  destination 
and  mode  of  life  may  have  kept  him  from  the  stated 
festivals  of  his  countrymen  at  Jerusalem.  It  is  possi- 
ble, therefore,  that  the  Saviour  and  the  Baptist  had 
not  often  met.  It  was  certainly  of  the  utmost  impor- 
tance that  there  should  be  no  suspicion  of  concert  or 
collusion  between  them.  John,  however,  must  assured- 
ly have  been  in  daily  expectation  of  Christ’s  manifesta- 
tion to  Israel,  and  so  a word  or  sign  would  have  sufficed 
to  reveal  to  him  the  person  and  presence  of  our  Lord, 
though  we  may*  well  suppose  such  a fact  to  be  made 
known  by  a direct  communication  from  God,  as  in  the 
case  of  Simeon  (Luke  ii,  26 ; comp.  Jackson  on  the  Creed, 
Works,  Oxf.  ed.  vi,  404).  At  all  events,  it  is  wholly  in- 
conceivable that  John  should  have  been  permitted  to 


JOHN 


958 


JOHN 


baptize  the  Son  of  God  without  being  enabled  to  distin- 
guish him  from  any  of  the  ordinary  multitude.  Upon 
the  whole,  the  true  meaning  of  the  words  icdyw  ovk 
ijCitv  avTov  would  seem  to  be  as  follows : And  I,  even  I, 
though  standing  in  so  near  a relation  to  him,  both  per- 
sonal and  ministerially,  had  no  assured  knowledge  of 
him  as  the  Messiah.  I did  not  know  him,  and  I had 
not  authority  to  proclaim  him  as  such  till  I saw  the  pre- 
dicted sign  in  the  descent  of  the  Holy  Spirit  upon  him. 
It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  John  had  no  means  of 
knowing  by  previous  announcement  whether  this  won- 
derful acknowledgment  of  the  divine  Son  would  be 
vouchsafed  to  his  forerunner  at  his  baptism  or  at  any 
other  time  (see  Dr.  Mill’s  Hist.  Character  of  St.  Luke's 
Gospel,  and  the  authorities  quoted  by  him).  See  Bap- 
tism of  Jesus. 

With  the  baptism  of  Jesus  John’s  more  especial  office 
ceased.  The  king  had  come  to  his  kingdom.  The 
function  of  the  herald  was  discharged.  It  was  this  that 
John  had  with  singular  humility  and  self-renunciation 
announced  beforehand : “He  must  increase,  but  1 must 
decrease.”  It  seems  but  natural  to  think,  therefore, 
when  their  hitherto  relative  position  is  taken  into  ac- 
count, that  John  would  forthwith  lay  down  his  office  of 
harbinger,  which,  now  that  the  Sun  of  Righteousness 
himself  had  appeared,  was  entirely  fulfilled  and  termi- 
nated. Such  a step  he  does  not  appear  to  have  taken. 
From  incidental  notices  we  learn  that  John  and  his  dis- 
ciples continued  to  baptize  some  time  after  our  Lord  en- 
tered upon  his  ministry  (see  John  iii,  23;  iv,  1).  We 
gather  also  that  John  instructed  his  disciples  in  certain 
moral  and  religious  duties,  as  fasting  (Matt,  ix,  14; 
Luke  v,33)  and  prayer  (Luke  xi,  I).  In  short,  the  lan- 
guage of  Scripture  seems  to  imply  that  the  Baptist 
Church  continued  side  by  side  with  the  Messianic 
(Matt,  xi,  3;  Luke  vii,  19;  John  xiv,  25),  and  remained 
long  after  John’s  execution  (Acts  xix,  3).  Indeed,  a 
sect  which  bears  the  name  of  lt  John’s  disciples”  exists 
to  the  present  day  in  the  East,  whose  sacred  books  are 
said  to  be  pervaded  by  a Gnostic  leaven.  (See  Gcse- 
nius,  in  the  A Ihjern.  Literaturzeituny , 18 1 7,  No.  48,  p.  378, 
and  in  the  Hall.  Eneyclnp.,  probeheft,  p.  95  sq.;  Burck- 
hardt,  L<s  Xazormms  apelles  Zt  line  ns  et  Chretiens  ele  St. 
Jean,  seete  Gnostique,  Strasb.  1810;  also  Blarkev,  in  the 
Jiihl.  Hay.  iv,35c  sq.;  Schaflf, . 1 post.  Hist. p. 279  sq.).  See 
John,  Sr.,  (dims mans  of.  They  are  hostile  alike  to 
Judaism  and  Christianity,  and  their  John  and  Jesus  are 
altogether  different  from  the  characters  bearing  these 
names  in  our  evangelists.  Still,  though  it  has  been 
generally  assumed  that  John  did  not  lay  down  his  of- 
fice, we  .are  not  satisfied  that  the  New  Testameut  estab- 
lishes this  alleged  fact.  John  may  have  ceased  to  exe- 
cute his  own  peculiar  work  as  the  forerunner,  but  may 
justifiably  have  continued  to  bear  his  most  important 
testimony  to  the  Messiahship  of  Christ ; or  he  mav  even 
have  altogether  given  up  the  duties  of  active  life  some 
time,  at  least,  before  bis  death;  and  yet  his  disciples, 
both  before  and  alter  that  event,  may  have  maintained 
their  individuality  as  a religious  communion.  Nor  will 
the  student  of  the  New  Testament  and  of  ecclesiastical 
history,  who  knows  how  grossly  a teacher  far  greater 
tli.in  John  was,  both  during  his  life  and  after  his  cruci- 
fixion, misunderstood  and  misrepresented,  think  it  im- 
possible that  some  misconception  or  some  sinister  motive 
may  have  had  weight  in  preventing  the  Baptist  Church 
from  dissolving  and  passing  into  that  of  Christ.  (See 
\ eber, ./.  </.  liinfer  and  die  Parteien  seiner  Zeit , Gotha, 
1*<0.)  It  was,  not  improbablv,  with  a view  to  remove 
some  error  of  this  kind  that  John  sent  the  embassy  of 
his  disciples  to  Jesus  which  is  recorded  in  Matt,  xi,  3 ; 
Luke  vn,  19.  The  spiritual  course  which  the  teachings 
of  Jesus  were  more  and  more  taking,  and  the  apparent 
failure,  or  at  least  uneasy  postponement  of  the  promised 
kingdom  in  the  popular  sense,  especially  after  their  es- 
teemed master  lay  in  prison,  and  was  in  imminent  dan- 
ger of  losing  his  life,  may  well  have  led  John's  disciples 
to  doubt  it  Jesus  were  in  truth  the  expected  Messiah; 


but  no  intimation  is  found  in  the  record  that  John  re- 
quired evidence  to  give  him  satisfaction.  (See  below.) 
Be  that  as  it  may,  it  is  certain  that  John  still  continued 
to  present  himself  to  his  countrymen  in  the  capacity  of 
witness  to  Jesus.  Especially  did  he  bear  testimony  to 
him  at  Bethany  beyond  Jordan  (for  Bethany,  not  Beth- 
abara,  is  the  reading  of  the  best  MSS.).  So  confidently, 
indeed,  did  he  point  out  the  Lamb  of  God,  on  whom  he 
had  seen  the  Spirit  alighting  like  a dove,  that  two  of 
his  own  disciples,  Andrew,  and  probably  John,  being 
convinced  by  his  testimony,  followed  Jesus  as  the  true 
Messiah. 

3.  But  shortly  after  he  had  given  his  testimony  to 
the  Messiah,  John’s  public  ministry  was  brought  to  a 
close.  He  had,  at  the  beginning  of  it,  condemned  the 
hypocrisy  and  worldliness  of  the  Pharisees  and  Saddu- 
cees,  and  he  had  now  occasion  to  denounce  the  lust  of  a 
king.  In  daring  disregard  of  the  divine  laws,  Herod 
Antipas  had  taken  to  himself  the  wife  of  his  brother 
Philip;  and  when  John  reproved  him  for  this,  as  well 
as  for  other  sins  (Luke  iii,  19),  Herod  cast  him  into  pris- 
on. Josephus,  however,  assigns  a somewhat  different 
cause  for  Herod’s  act  from  that  given  in  the  Gospels: 
“ Now  some  of  the  Jews  thought  that  the  destruction 
of  Herod's  army  came  from  God,  and  that  very  justly, 
as  a punishment  of  what  he  did  against  John  that  was 
called  the  Baptist;  for  Herod  slew  him,  although  he 
was  a good  man,  and  commanded  the  Jews  to  exercise 
virtue,  both  as  to  righteousness  one  towards  another 
and  piety  towards  God,  and  so  to  come  to  baptism. 
Now  when  others  came  in  crowds  about  him — for  they 
were  greatly  moved  by  hearing  his  words — Herod,  who 
feared  lest  the  great  influence  John  had  over  the  people 
might  put  it  into  his  power  and  inclination  to  raise  a re- 
bellion (for  they  seemed  ready  to  do  anything  he  should 
advise),  thought  it  best,  by  putting  him  to  death,  to 
prevent  any  mischief  he  might  cause,  and  not  bring 
himself  into  difficulties  by  sparing  a man  who  might 
make  him  repenc  of  it  when  it  should  be  too  late.  Ac- 
cordingly he  was  sent  a prisoner,  out  of  Herod’s  suspi- 
cious temper,  to  Machaerus,  the  castle  I before  mention- 
ed, and  was  there  put  to  death’’  (.  1 nt.  xviii,  5, 2).  There 
is  no  contrariety  between  this  account  and  that  which 
is  given  in  the  New  Testament.  (See  Lamy,  Hiss,  de 
vinculis  Joa.  Bapt. ; Tan  Til,  De  Joa.  Bapt.  incarcera- 
iione  Jictitia  Ilerodiana  vincula  antecedente,  L.  B.  1710.) 
Both  may  be  true : John  was  condemned  in  the  mind 
of  Herod  on  political  grounds,  as  endangering  his  posi- 
tion, and  executed  on  private  and  ostensible  grounds,  in 
order  to  gratify  a malicious  but  powerful  woman.  The 
scriptural  reason  was  but  the  pretext  for  carrying  into 
effect  the  determination  of  Herod’s  cabinet.  That  the 
fear  of  Herod  was  not  without  some  ground  may  be 
seen  in  the  popularity  which  John  had  gained  (Mark 
xi,  32;  see  Lardner,  Works,  vi,  483). 

The  castle  of  Macluerus,  where  John  was  imprisoned 
and  beheaded,  was  a fortress  lying  on  the  southern  ex- 
tremity of  Penea,  at  the  head  of  the  Lake  Asplialtites, 
between  the  dominions  of  Herod  and  Aretas,  king  of 
Arabia  Petrrea,  and  at  the  time  of  our  history  appears  to 
have  belonged  to  the  former  (Lardner,  vi,  483).  lt  was 
here  that  the  above-moqt ioned  reports  reached  him  of 
the  miracles  which  our  Lord  was  working  in  .Jiukea — 
miracles  which,  doubtless,  were  to  John’s  mind  but  the 
confirmation  of  what  he  expected  to  hear  as  to  the  es- 
tablishment of  the  Messiah’s  kingdom.  But  if  Christ’s 
kingdom  were  indeed  established,  it  was  the  duty  of 
John's  own  disciples,  no  less  than  of  all  others,  to  ac- 
knowledge it.  They,  however,  would  naturally  cling  to 
their  own  master,  and  be  slow  to  transfer  their  allegiance 
to  another.  With  a view,  therefore,  to  overcome  their 
scruples,  John  sent  two  of  them  to  Jesus  himself  to  ask 
the  question,  “Art  thou  he  that  should  come?”  They 
were  answered  not  by  words,  but  by  a series  of  miracles 
wrought  before  their  eves — the  very  miracles  which 
prophecy  had  specified  as  the  distinguishing  credentials 
of  the  Messiah  (Isa.  xxxv,  5;  lxi,  i)  ; and  while  Jesus 


jonisr 


959 


JOIIX 


bade  the  two  messengers  carry  back  to  John  as  his  only  I 
answer  the  report  of  what  they  had  seen  and  heard,  he  j 
took  occasion  to  guard  the  multitude  who  surrounded 
him  against  supposing  that  the  Baptist  himself  was  , 
shaken  in  mind,  by  a direct  appeal  to  their  own  knowl-  j 
edge  of  his  life  and  character.  Well  might  they  be  ap- 
pealed to  as  witnesses  that  the  stern  prophet  of  the  wil- 
derness was  no  waverer,  bending  to  every  breeze,  like 
the  reeds  on  the  banks  of  Jordan.  Proof  abundant  had 
they  that  John  was  no  worldling,  with  a heart  set  upon 
rich  clothing  and  dainty  fare — the  luxuries  of  a king’s 
court — and*they  must  have  been  ready  to  acknowledge 
that  one  so  inured  to  a life  of  hardness  and  privation 
was  not  likely  to  be  affected  by  the  ordinary  terrors  of 
a prison.  But  our  Lord  not  only  vindicates  his  fore- 
runner from  any  suspicion  of  inconstancy,  he  goes  on  to 
proclaim  him  a prophet,  and  more  than  a prophet;  nay, 
inferior  to  none  bom  of  woman,  though  in  respect  to 
spiritual  privileges  behind  the  least  of  those  who  were 
to  be  born  of  the  Spirit  and  admitted  into  the  fellowship 
of  Christ’s  body  (Matt,  xi,  11).  It  should  be  noted  that 
the  expression  6 tie  /.tiKporepog,  k.  r.  X.,  is  understood 
by  Chrysostom,  Augustine,  Hilary,  and  some  modern 
commentators  to  mean  Christ  himself,  but  this  inter- 
pretation is  less  agreeable  to  the  spirit  and  tone  of  our 
Lord’s  discourse.  Jesus  further  proceeds  to  declare  that 
John  was,  according  to  the  true  meaning  of  the  proph- 
ecv,  the  Elijah  of  the  new  covenant,  foretold  by  Malachi 
(iii,  4). 

The  event,  indeed,  proved  that  John  was  to  Herod 
what  Elijah  had  been  to  Aliab,  and  a prison  was  deemed 
too  light  a punishment  for  his  boldness  in  asserting 
God’s  law  before  the  face  of  a king  and  a queen.  Noth- 
ing but  the  death  of  the  Baptist  would  satisfy  the  re- 
sentment of  Herodias.  Though  foiled  once,  she  contin- 
ued to  watch  her  opportunity,  which  at  length  arrived. 
A court  festival  was  kept  in  honor  of  the  king’s  birth- 
day. After  supper  the  daughter  of  Herodias  came  in 
and  danced  before  the  company,  and  so  charmed  was 
the  king  by  her  grace  that  he  promised  with  an  oath  to 
give  her  whatsoever  she  should  ask.  Salome,  prompt- 
ed by  her  abandoned  mother,  demanded  the  head  of 
John  the  Baptist.  The  promise  had  been  given  in 
the  hearing  of  his  distinguished  guests,  and  so  Herod, 
though  loth  to  be  made  the  instrument  of  so  bloody  a 
work,  gave  instructions  to  an  officer  of  his  guard,  who 
went  and  executed  John  in  the  prison,  and  his  head 
was  brought  to  feast  the  eyes  of  the  adulteress  whose 
sins  he  had  denounced.  See  Herodias.  According  to 
the  Scripture  account,  the  daughter  of  Herodias  ob- 
tained the  Baptist’s  head  at  the  entertainment,  without 
delay.  IIow  could  this  be  when  Machierus  lay  at  a dis- 
tance from  Jerusalem  ? The  feast  seems  to  have  been 
made  at  Macha?rus,  which,  besides  being  a stronghold, 
was  also  a palace,  built  by  Herod  the  Great,  and  here 
Antipas  appears  to  have  been  spending  some  time  with 
his  paramour  Herodias. 

4.  Thus  was  John  added  to  that  glorious  army  of 
martyrs  who  have  suffered  for  righteousness’  sake.  I lis 
death  seems  to  have  occurred  just  before  the  third  Pass- 
over,  in  the  course  of  the  Lord’s  ministry,  A.D.  28. 
Herod  undoubtedly  looked  upon  him  as  some  extraor- 
dinary person,  for  no  sooner  did  he  hear  of  the  miracles 
of  Jesus  than,  though  a Sadducee  himself,  and,  as  such, 
a disbeliever  in  the  resurrection,  he  ascribed  them  to 
John,  whom  he  supposed  to  have  risen  from  the  dead. 
See  Herod  Antipas.  Holy  Scripture  tells  us  that  the 
body  of  the  Baptist  was  laid  in  the  tomb  by  his  disci- 
ples, and  ecclesiastical  history  records  the  honors  which 
successive  generations  paid  to  his  memory,  lie  is  men- 
tioned in  the  Koran,  with  much  honor,  under  the  name 
of  Johja  (see  Hottinger,  Ilis/oria  Orientalis , p.  144-149, 
Tigur.  1660 ; Herbelot,  Biblioth.  Or.  ii,  283  sq.). 

The  brief  history  of  John's  life  is  marked  throughout 
with  the  characteristic  graces  of  self-denial,  humility, 
and  holy  courage.  So  great,  indeed,  was  his  abstinence 
that  worldly  men  considered  him  possessed.  “John 


I came  neither  eating  nor  drinking,  and  they  said  he  hath 
| a devil.”  His  humility  was  such  that  he  had  again 
j and  again  to  disavow  the  character  and  decline  the 
I honors  which  an  admiring  multitude  almost  forced  upon 
him.  To  their  questions  he  answered  plainly  he  was 
not  the  Christ,  nor  the  Elijah  of  whom  they  were  think- 
ing, nor  one  of  their  old  prophets.  He  was  no  one — a 
voice  merely — the  voice  of  God  calling  his  people  to  re- 
pentance in  preparation  for  the  coming  of  him  whose 
shoe-latchet  he  was  not  worthy  to  unloose.  For  his 
boldness  in  speaking  truth,  he  w ent  a w illing  victim  to 
prison  and  to  death. — Smith ; Kitto. 

Resembling,  though  John  did,  in  so  many  things  the 
Elijah  of  former  days,  the  exit  of  the  one  from  his  field 
of  labor  was  remarkable  for  its  humiliating  circum- 
stances, as  the  other  for  its  singular  glory — the  one  dy- 
ing as  a felon  by  the  hand  of  the  executioner,  the  other, 
without  tasting  at  all  of  death,  ascending  to  heaven  in 
a chariot  of  lire.  But  in  John’s  case  it  could  not  be 
otherwise;  the  forerunner,  no  more  than  the  disciple, 
could  be  above  his  Master;  and  especially  in  the  treat- 
ment of  the  one  must  the  followers  of  Jesus  be  prepared 
for  what  was  going  to  be  accomplished  in  the  other. 
After  John’s  death,  and  growing  out  of  it,  a whole  series 
of  special  actions  and  discourses  were  directed  to  this 
end  by  our  Lord.  The  manner  of  John’s  death,  there- 
fore, is  on  no  account  to  be  regarded  as  throwing  a de- 
preciatory reflection  on  his  position  and  ministry.  He 
was,  as  Christ  himself  testified,  “ a burning  and  a shin- 
ing light”  (John  v,  35),  and  he  fulfilled  his  arduous 
course  in  a truly  noble  and  valiant  spirit. — Fairbairn. 

5.  For  the  literature  connected  with  this  subject,  see, 
besides  the  treatises  noticed  above,  Hase,  Leben  Jesu 
(4th  ed.  Leipzig,  1854),  p.  82,  86, 149 ; Volbeding.  Index 
Programmatum , p.  20  sep,  23,  125;  Walch,  Bibliotheca 
Theologica , iii,  402 ; Witsii  Ex  ere.  de  Joanne  Bapi.  (in 
his  Miseett.  Sacra,  ii,  867) ; Leopold,  Johannes  der  Tau- 
fer  (Ilannov.  1825);  Usteri,  Nuchrichten  von  Johannes 
deni  Taufer  (in  the  Stndien  and  Kritiken,  1829,  iii,  439); 
Von  Rohden,  Johannes  der  Taufer  (Liibeck,  1838  );  Ne- 
ander,  Leb.  Jesu  (Hamb.  1837),  p.  49 ; Keim,  Leb.  Jesu,  i, 
469-523 ; Hausrath,  Lebni  Jesu,  p.  316-340.  The  eccle- 
siastical traditions  touching  John  may  be  found  in  the 
A eta  Sauct.  iv,  G87-846 ; and,  in  a compendious  form,  in 
Tillemont,  Memoires,  i,  82-108,  482-595.  Oilier  treat- 
ises of  a more  special  character,  in  addition  to  those 
above  cited,  are : Hottinger,  Penfets  dissert.  Bibl.*chro- 
nol.  (Traj.  a.  R.  1723)  p.  143  sq. ; Deyling,  Observations 
sacr.  iii,  251  sq. ; Ammon,  Pr.  de  doctrina  et  morfe  Jo. 
Bapt.  (Erlangen,  1809) ; Ran,  Pr.  de  Joan.  Bapt.  in  rem 
Christ,  stud  iis  (Frlang.  1785),  ii,  4;  Abegg,  Or  at.  de  Jo. 
Bapt.  (Heidell).  1820) ; Bax,  Specim.  de  Jo.  Bapt.  (L.  B. 
1821) ; Stein,  Ueb.  Gesch.  Lehre  v.  Schicksale  Joh.  d.  T. 
(in  Keifs  A nalect.  iv,  i,  37  sq.) ; Wessenberg,  Johannes 
der  Yorldnfer  tins.  Ilerm  (Constanz,  1821);  Muller,  Pr. 
de  Jo.  Bapt.  (Helmst.  1733) ; Asp,  Obs.  Phil.  hist,  de  Jo. 
Bapt.  (Upsala,  1733);  Lisco,  Billische  Beitr.iiber  J.  d. 
Taufer  (Berlin,  1826) ; Eckliard,  Josephus  de  Jo.  Bapt. 
testatus  (Eisen.  1785) ; Haruiberg,  De  cibo  Jo.  Bapt.  (in 
Otia  Gand.  sacra,  Traj.  ad  R.  1740,  p.  1 sq.) ; Amnele, 
Amictus  et  rictus  J.  Bapt.  (Upsal.  1755);  Stollberg,  id. 
(Vitemb.  1673) ; Carpzov.  De  cultu  Jo.  B.  Antiquat.  Clir. 
(Rome,  1755) ; Hutli,  Xum.  Jo.  B.  Maria  et  diseip.  Chr. 
fuerint  baptizati  (Erlangen,  1759) ; Blatt,  A Dissert,  on 
John's  Message  to  our  Saviour  (London,  1789);  Zeiger- 
mann,  Comm,  de  consil.  quo  Jo.  diseip.  ad  Jesum  ablega- 
verit  (Nuremb.  1813) ; Frank,  Joh.  d.  Taufer  (Eisleben, 
1841);  Kromayer,  De  baptisme  Christ i (Lips.  1680). 

John  ./EgeatEs  (o  Aiyedrrjg),  a presbyter  of  ^Egae 
(Aiyai)  (probably  in  Cilicia,  between  Mopsuestia  and 
lssus).  Photius  calls  him  {Cod.  55)  a Nestorian,  but 
Fabricius,  with  reason,  supposes  that  he  wras  a Eutych- 
ian.  When  he  flourished  is  not  known ; he  may  perhaps 
be  consigned  to  the  latter  half  of  the  5th  century.  Yos- 
sius  places  him  under  Zeno  the  Isaurian,  but  Cave 
thinks  he  was  later,  lie  is  the  reputed  author  of  (1) 
’EKKXrjoiaemKi)  ioropia  (// istoria  Ecclesiastica ),  in  ten 


JOHN 


JOHN  9G0 


books,  of  which  ITiotius  had  read  five,  containing  the 
history  of  the  Church  from  the  deposition  of  Nestorius 
at  the  Council  of  Ephesus  (the  third  general  council,  A. 
1).  431)  to  the  deposition  of  Petrus  Fullo  (A.D.  477), 
who  had  usurped  the  see  of  Antioch  in  the  reign  of  the 
emperor  Zeno.  As  the  Council  of  Ephesus  is  the  point 
at  which  the  ecclesiastical  history  of  Socrates  leaves  off, 
it  is  probable  that  the  history  of  John  of  /Eg®  com- 
menced, like  that  of  Evagrius,  at  that  point,  and  conse- 
quently that  these  five  books  were  the  first  five  of  his 
history.  Photius  describes  his  style  as  perspicuous  and 
florid,* and  says  that  he  was  a great  admirer  of  Diosco- 
rus  of  Alexandria,  the  successor  of  Cyril,  and  extolled 
the  Synod  of  Ephesus  (A.D.  449),  generally  branded 
with  the  epithet  i)  Xi/rrrnnc//,  ‘-the  synod  of  robbers,” 
while  he  attacked  the  Council  of  Chalcedon.  How  late 
a period  the  history  came  down  to  cannot  be  deter- 
mined : — (2)  A work  which  Photius  describes  as  Kara 
rijg  ayiag  Ttrapryg  ouvocov  (.1  dversus  Quartam  Sanc- 
tum Synodum).  This  must  be  Photius’s  description,  not 
the  original  title  of  the  work;  for,  opposed  as  we  infer 
John  to  have  been  to  the  authority  of  the  Council  of 
Chalcedon,  he  would  hardly  have  described  it  as  “the 
fourth  sacred  council.”  Photius  commends  the  style  in 
which  the  work  was  written.  Fabricius  identifies  John 
of  .Eg®  with  the  Joannes  6 haicpivoptvoc,  i.  e.  “the 
dissenter,”  cited  by  the  anonymous  writer  of  the  Ai- 
aordatig  avvropot  xpovi/cai  ( Breves  Demonstration es 
Chronographicct),  given  by  Corabefis  (in  his  Origeuum 
C.  Politinarum  Munipulus,  p.  24, 33),  but  Combefis  him- 
self (ibid.  p.  59)  identifies  this  John  with  John  Mai  alas. 
Whether  John  of  /Eg®  is  the  John  o 'P/jrwp,  “the 
Klietorician,”  cited  bv  Evagrius  Scholasticus  (Hist.  Heel. 
i,  10;  ii,  12;  iii,  10,  etc.)  is  doubtful.  Le  (juieu  (Ope- 
ra S.  Joanuis  Damtisceni , i,  363,  note)  identifies  them, 
but  Fabricius  thinks  they  were  different  persons.  See 
Photius,  Hill.  Cod.  41,  55;  Fabricius,  Bill.  Or.  vii,  419; 
Cave,  Hist.  Lit.  i,  456,  ed.  Oxford,  1740-43;  Smith,  Diet, 
of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography , ii.  585. 

John  Agricola.  See  Agricola. 

John  Alasco.  See  Lasco. 

John  ok  Alexandria.  See  John  Niciota  ; John 
Talaia. 

John  Alexandrines.  See  John  tiie  Laborious. 

John  the  Ai.msgivku  (Johannes  Eleejiosyna- 
iiH'sv  one  of  the  best  of  the  patriarchs  of  the  East- 
ern ( 'hurch,  was  horn  of  noble  parentage  at  Amanthus, 
in  Cyprus,  about  550.  lie  had  married  young,  but, 
losing  his  wife,  he  distributed  his  possessions  among  the 
poor,  and  devoted  himself  to  a life  of  ascetic  practices. 
So  irreproachable  was  his  conduct,  and  so  great  his  rep- 
utation for  piety  and  charity,  that,  on  the  murder  of 
Theodore,  he  was  unanimously  demanded  as  successor 
in  the  patriarchate.  11c  was  appointed  by  the  emperor 
in  A.l).  606.  The  first  years  of  his  reign  were  quiet; 
not  so  the  last  years,  which  were  marked  by  the  suc- 
cessful invasions  of  Chosroes  II,  king  of  the  Persians, 
during  the  reign  of  Phocas,  into  the  Roman  possessions 
of  the  Orient  (compare  Gibbon,  Decline  and  Fall  of  the 
Rom.  Empire,  cli.  xlvi).  From  all  parts  of  Syria  Chris- 
tians tied  to  Alexandria  to  find  a protector  in  John,  and 
when  at  last  Jerusalem  also  had  fallen  (A.D.  619),  not 
content  with  feeding  and  clothing  the  refugees  he  found 
right  at  his  own  door,  he  sent  large  sums  of  money  to  the 
1 Inly  ( Tty  to  redeem  Christian  captives  and  prevent  fur- 
ther massacre.  (The  statement  that  at  this  fall  of  Je- 
rusalem “90,000  Christians  were  massacred,  and  that 
principally  by  the  Jews,  who  purchased  them  from  the 
Persians  on  purpose  to  put  them  to  death"  ( Neale],  has 
no  hotter  basis  than  the  inventions  of  prejudiced  monas- 
tics, bent  on  the  destruction  of  the  Jews.  ( 'omp.  Griitz 
Gesch.  d.  Juden , v.  34  sq.,  433  sq.).  In  620,  when  the 
1 ersians  threatened  Egypt  also,  he  lied  to  his  native 
island,  and  died  there  a short  time  after  his  arrival. 
He  is  commemorated  in  the  Oriental  Church  November 
11,  and  in  the  Latin  January  23.  Curiously  enough,  he 


is  also  commemorated  by  the  Jacobites.  It  is  from  this 
John  that  the  famous  order  of  the  Hospitallers , in  the 
first  instance,  derived  its  name.  Gardiner,  bishop  of 
Winchester,  ascribed  to  him  the  authorship  of  the  cele- 
brated Epistola  ad  Ccesarium,  with  which  most  Protes- 
tant and  some  Homan  Catholic  critics  credit  Chrysos- 
tom. Three  biographical  accounts  were  written  of  him : 
(1)  by  Joannes  Moschus  and  Sophronius  (no  longer  ex- 
tant); (2)  by  Leontius,  bishop  of  Neapolis,  in  Cyprus 
(translated,  between  858  and  867,  into  Latin  by  Anasta- 
sius  Bibliothecarius,  and  repeatedly  printed) ; found  in 
the  A da  Sanctorum  of  the  Bollandists  (Jan.  23,  ii,  495) ; 
(3)  by  Simeon  Metaphrastes  (but  not  trustworthy).  See 
Neale,  JJist. East.  Ch.  ( Alexandria ), ii,  52  sq. ; Wetzer  u. 
Welte,  Kirchen-Lexikon,  v,  718  sq. ; Fabricius,  Biblioth. 
Grceca,  i,  699,  note  xx  ; viii,  322 ; x,  262.  (J.  II.  W.) 

John  of  Antioch  (1),  a prelate  of  the  early  Greek 
Church,  distinguished  for  the  part  he  took  in  the  con- 
troversy between  Cyril  and  Nestorius,  flourished  in  the 
first  half  of  the  5th  century,  and  succeeded  Theodotns 
in  the  patriarchate  of  Antioch  about  A.D.  427.  Favor- 
ably disposed  towards  Nestorius,  who  is  said  to  have 
been  a schoolmate  of  his  in  the  monastery  of  St.  Eupre- 
pius,  near  Antioch,  he  was  forced  to  take  decided  ground 
against  Cvril  by  the  impolitic  conduct  of  the  latter  at 
the  Council  of  Ephesus  (q.  v.).  Among  the  Eastern 
bishops  who  came  with  John  of  Antioch  to  attend  the 
council,  he  was  the  acknowledged  leader,  and  we  need 
not  wonder,  therefore,  that  he  swayed  them  all  in  favor 
of  Nestorius,  Avhen,  on  arriving  at  Ephesus,  they  learn- 
ed that  the  sessions  had  not  only  commenced,  but  that 
Nestorius  had  already  been  actually  condemned  without 
their  sanction.  As  long  as  Ireineus  (q.  v.)  and  Candidi- 
us  succeeded  in  maintaining  the  Nestorians  at  the  court 
of  the  emperor  Theodosius,  John  proved  faithful  to  his 
course  taken  at  Ephesus;  but  when  he  found  the  Cyril- 
lian  party  gaining  the  upper  hand,  he  slowiy  modified 
his  position  until  a reconciliation  with  Cyril  followed 
(A.D.  432).  He  now  turned  actually  against  his  former 
friend  Nestorius,  and  after  much  trouble  and  opposition, 
which  he  vanquished,  partly  by  persuasion,  partly  by 
deposing  the  pertinacious,  the  other  Eastern  bishops 
also — in  provincial  councils  held  at  Antioch  (A.D.  432), 
Anazarbus  (A.D.  433),  and  Tarsus  (A.D.  434) — declared 
for  Cyril  and  the  decrees  of  the  third  (Ecumenical  Coun- 
cil. Nay,  it  is  said  that  John  of  Antioch  was  even  the 
man  who  instigated  the  emperor  to  make  the  banish- 
ment of  Nestorius  perpetual;  no  doubt  actuated  by  a 
desire  to  convince  the  Cyrillians  of  the  truthfulness  of 
his  conversion.  In  the  controversy  with  Theodore  of 
M ops ues tia  he  took  more  liberal  ground,  declining,  at  a 
council  held  in  438,  to  condemn  the  writings  and  opin- 
ions of  Theodore;  according  to  Liberatus,  he  even  ap- 
peared in  his  defence.  John  died  in  441  or  442.  He  is 
spoken  of  by  Gennadius  (DeViris  Illustribus,  c.  54)  as 
possessed  of  great  rhetorical  power.  He  wrote  (1) 

' ^TnuToXai  ( Epistolce ) and  ' Avatpooai  (Relations)  re- 
specting the  Nestorian  controversy  and  the  Council  of 
Ephesus,  of  which  several  are  contained  in  the  various 
editions  of  the  Concilia: — (2)  'O piXia  ( Uomilia ),  the 
homily  or  exhortation  delivered  at  Chalcedon,  just  after 
the  Council  of  Ephesus,  to  the  people  of  Constantinople, 
with  the  aim  to  animate  them  to  continue  steadfast  ui 
their  adherence  to  the  old  Nicene  Confession ; a frag- 
ment of  it  we  have  in  the  Concilia (3)  nfpi  rmv  Me- 
aa\ ini’iTiov  (De  Messalianis),  a letter  to  Nestorius,  enu- 
merated by  IMiotius  (Bill.  Cod.  32)  among  the  episcopal 
and  synodical  papers  against  that  heretical  body,  con- 
tained in  the  history  or  acta  of  the  Council  of  Side  (A. 
D.  333): — (4)  Contra  eos  qui  una  tantum  substantia  as- 
serunt  adorandum  Christum  (only  known  to  us  by  Gen- 
nadius ; probably  the  work  from  which  the  passages  are 
taken  with  which  Eidogius  credits  John  of  Antioch). 
See  Smith,  Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Biog.  ii,  586  sq. ; Tille- 
mont,  Mcmoires,  vol.  xiv;  Mansi,  Concilia,  iv,  1259  sq. ; 
Neale,  Hist.  East.  Ch.  ( Alexandria ),  i,  bk.  ii,  sect,  ii  and 
iii;  Ilefele,  Conciliengesch.  ii,  178  sq. ; Schafti  Ch.  Hist. 


joiin 


961 


JOHN 


iii,  § 138-140;  Milman,  Latin  Christianity , i,  224  sq. ; 
Gibbon,  Decl.  and  Fall  Rom.  Kmp.  ch.  xlvii.  (J.  II.  \\\) 

John  of  Antioch  (2),  surnamed  Codonatus,  the 
successor  of  Petrus  Gnapheus,  or  Fullo  (the  Fuller),  after 
his  deposition,  in  the  patriarchate  of  Antioch,  A.I).  447. 
John  had  previously  been  bishop  of  Apamea ; but,  af- 
ter holding  the  patriarchate  three  months,  he  was  de- 
posed by  r.  synod  of  Eastern  bishops,  and  succeeded  bv 
Stephen.  Tlieophanes  incorrectly  places  the  appoint- 
ment of  John  after  Stephen's  death.  Both  John  and 
his  predecessor  Petrus  had  been,  at  the  instigation  of 
Acacias  of  Constantinople,  excommunicated  by  the  pope; 
yet,  after  the  deposition  of  John,  the  same  Aeacius  pro- 
cured  his  elevation  to  the  bishopric  of  Tyre.  Theopha- 
nes  incorrectly  ascribes  this  appointment  to  Calendion 
of  Antioch.  Sec  Theophanes,  Chronog.  p.  110,  etc.,  ed. 
Paris  (p.  88,  etc.,  ed.  Venice;  p.  199,  etc.,  ed.  Bonn); 
Valesius,  Not.  ad  Evagrii  //.  E.  iii,  15,  and  Observatio- 
n's, Ecdes.  ad  Eragrium , ii,  8. — Smith,  Did.  Greek  and 
Roman  Biog.  ii,  586. 

John  of  Antioch  (3),  surnamed  Scholasticus,  an 
eminent  Greek  legist,  flourished  in  the  6th  century.  lie 
entered  the  Church,  and  became  patriarch  of  Constan- 
tinople (564-578).  lie  compiled  a collection  of  ecclesi- 
astical laws,  Avliich  greatly  surpassed  in  extent  and 
method  those  which  preceded  it,  and  which  has  remain- 
ed the  basis  of  canon  law  in  the  Greek  Church.  An- 
other of  his  works,  entitled  Nomocanon,  was  an  attempt 
to  harmonize  Justinian’s  constitutions  relating  to  the 
Church  with  the  older  rules.  Both  works  were  for 
many  centuries  held  in  high  estimation,  and  were  in- 
serted in  Yoell  and  Justel’s  Bib/,  juris  canonici  veteris 
(Paris,  1961),  ii,  603-789.  See  Fabricius,  Bill.  Graca. 
xi,  100 ; Iloefer,  Nonv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxvi,  530.  (J.  X.  P.) 

John  Archaph  (’Apyo0),  an  Egyptian  schismatic 
of  some  note,  was  a contemporary  of  Athanasius.  He 
was  a devoted  follower  of  Melitius,  who,  just  before  his 
death,  which  occurred  shortly  after  his  condemnation 
by  the  Council  of  Nice  (A.D.  325),  made  John  the  Me- 
letian  bishop  of  Memphis,  and  intrusted  to  him  also  the 
leadership  of  the  Melitians  as  a body.  John,  supported 
by  the  Arians,  renewed  the  attacks  against  the  ortho- 
dox party,  and  the  schism  soon  became  as  violent  as 
ever.  Athanasius,  now  patriarch  of  Alexandria,  and 
leader  of  the  orthodox  party,  was  the  great  object  of 
attack;  and  John  and  his  followers  sought  to  throw  on 
him  the  odium  of  originating  the  disturbances,  and  of 
persecuting  his  opponents;  and,  especially,  they  charged 
him  with  the  murder  of  Arsenins,  a Melitiau  bishop, 
whom  they  had  secreted  in  order  to  give  color  to  the 
charge.  Athanasius  (q.  v.),  on  hi3  part,  appealed  to 
the  emperor,  Constantine  the  Great,  charging  John  and 
his  followers  with  unsonndness  in  the  faith,  with  a de- 
sire to  alter  the  decrees  of  the  Xicene  Council,  and  with 
raising  tumults  and  insulting  the  orthodox;  he  also  ob- 
jected to  them  as  being  irregularly  ordained,  lie  re- 
futed their  charges,  especially  the  charge  of  murder, 
ascertaining  that  Arsenius  was  alive,  and  obliged  them 
to  remain  quiet.  John  professed  to  repent  of  his  disor- 
derly proceedings  and  to  be  reconciled  to  Athanasius, 
and  returned  with  his  party  into  the  communion  of  the 
orthodox  Church,  but  the  reconciliation  was  not  sincere 
or  lasting;  troubles  broke  out  again,  and  a fresh  sepa- 
ration took  place,  John  and  his  followers  either  being 
ejected  from  communion  by  the  Athanasian  party,  or 
their  return  opposed.  The  Council  of  Tyre  (A.D.  335), 
in  which  the  opponents  of  Athanasius  were  triumphant, 
ordered  them  to  be  readmitted;  but  the  emperor,  deem- 
ing John  to  he  a contentious  man,  or  at  least  thinking 
that  his  presence  was  incompatible  with  the  peace  of 
the  Egyptian  Church,  banished  him  (A.D.  336),  just 
after  he  had  banished  Athanasius  into  Gaul.  The  place 
of  his  exile  and  his  subsequent  fate  are  not  known. — 
Sozomen,  Ilist.  Ecdes.  ii,  21 , 22, 25. 31 ; Athanasius,  .1  pal.' 
contra  A rianos,  c.  65,  67,  70,  71 ; Tillemont,  Memoires, 
vol.  vi  passim,  vol.  viii  passim : Xeale,  Ilist.  Eastern  Ch. 
IV.— P i>  r 


( Alexandria ) i,  161 ; Smith,  Diet.  Greek  and  Rom.  Biog. 
ii,  587. 

John  Argyropulus  (j  ApyvpoTrovXoc),  one  of  the 
learned  Greeks  whose  flight  into  Western  Europe  con- 
tributed so  powerfully  to  the  revival  of  learning,  was 
bom  at  Constantinople  of  a noble  family,  and  was  a 
presbyter  of  that  city,  on  the  capture  of  which  (A.I). 
1453)  he  is  said  by  Fabricius  and  Cave  to  have  fled  into 
Italy;  but  there  is  every  reason  to  believe  that  his  re- 
moval was  antecedent  to  that  event,  and  that  he  was 
in  Italy  several  times  previously.  A passage  cited  by 
Tirabosclii  ( Storia  della  Lett.  Italiana , vi,  198)  makes  it 
likely  that  lie  was  at  Padua  A.D.  1434,  reading  and  ex- 
plaining the  works  of  Aristotle  on  natural  philosophy. 
In  A.D.  1439  an  Argyropulus  was  present  with  the  em- 
peror John  Palieologus  at  the  Council  of  Florence  (Mi- 
chael Ducas,  Ilist.  Byzant.  c.  31),  and,  though  it  is  not 
certain  that  this  was  our  John,  it  yet  seems  very  prob- 
able. In  A.D.  1441  he  was  at  Constantinople,  as  ap- 
pears from  a letter  of  Francesco  Filelfo  to  Pietro  Pcrleoni 
(see  Philelphus,  Epistol.  3),  engaged  in  public  teaching, 
but  it  is  uncertain  how  long  he  had  been  established 
there.  Probably  he  had  returned  some  time  between 
A.D.  1434  and  1439,  and  accompanied  Bessariou  to  and 
from  the  Council  of  Florence.  Among  his  pupils  at 
Constantinople  was  Michael  Apostolius.  During  his 
abode  in  Italy,  after  his  last  removal  thither  in  1453,  he 
was  honorably  received  by  Cosmo  de’  Medici,  and  was 
made  preceptor  to  Lorenzo  do’  Medici,  the  celebrated 
son  of  Pietro,  in  Greek  and  in  the  Aristotelian  philoso- 
phy, especially  in  ethics.  When  Lorenzo  succeeded  to 
the  throne  in  A.I).  1469  he  established  a Greek  academy 
in  that  city,  and  in  it  Argyropulus  read  and  expounded 
the  classical  Greek  writers  to  the  Florentine  youth. 
From  Florence  he  removed  to  Rome,  on  account  of  the 
plague  which  had  broken  out  in  the  former  city ; the 
time  of  his  removal  is  not  ascertained,  but  it  was  before 
1471.  At  Rome  he  obtained  an  ample  subsistence  by 
teaching  Greek  and  philosophy,  and  especially  by  pub- 
| licly  expounding  the  works  of  Aristotle.  He  (lied  at 
the  age  of  seventy  from  an  autumnal  fever  said  to  have 
! been  brought  on  by  eating  too  freely  of  melons,  but  the 
j year  of  his  death  is  variously  stated;  all  that  appears 
j to  be  certainly  known  is  that  he  survived  Theodore 
' Gaza,  who  died  A.D.  1478.  The  attainments  of  Argy- 
ropulus were  highly  estimated  in  his  own  and  the  suc- 
I ceeding  age.  Thus  it  is  related  of  Theodore  Gaza  that, 
when  lie  found  that  Argyropulus  was  engaged  in  trans- 
lating some  pieces  of  Aristotle,  on  which  he  had  also 
been  occupied,  he  burnt  his  own  versions,  that  he  might 
not,  by  provoking  any  unfavorable  comparison,  stand  in 
the  way  of  his  friend’s  rising  reputation.  The  works 
of  Argyropulus  are  as  follows:  Original  works — 1.  Ilipt 
ri]£  rov  ayiov  n vtvparo^  tKiroptriTSMC,  De  Proccssi- 
one  Spirit  us  Sandi ; printed  with  a Latin  version  in  the 
Gracia  Orthodoxa  of  Leo  Allatius,  i,  400-418: — 2.  Gra- 
tia quarta  pro  Synodo  Florentina , cited  by  Xieolaus 
Comnenus  Papadopoli  in  his  Prcenotiones  Mystagogicce. 
We  do  not  know  if  this  has  been  published,  or  whether 
i it  is  in  Latin  or  Greek: — 3.  Commcntarii  in  Ethiea  Ni- 
comachea  (Florence,  1478).  This  work  comprehends 
the  substance  of  his  expository  lectures  on  the  Xieo- 
i machian  ethics  of  Aristotle,  taken  down  and  published 
| by  Donatus  Acciajnoli,  who  is  mentioned  as  a pupil  of 
Argyropulus : — 4.  Commentarii  in  Aristotelis  Metaphys- 
ica,  published  with  Bessarion’s  version  of  that  work 
(Paris,  1515,  fob).  The  other  original  works  of  Argy- 
ropulus are  scattered  in  MSS.  through  the  libraries  of 
Europe  (of  which  a full  list  is  given  by  Smith,  ut  infra). 
I He  also  translated  the  Prcedicalilia,  or  De  quinqve  rod- 
bus  of  Porphyry,  and  the  Homilicc  S.  Basilii  in  llexa'e- 
• meron.  His  version  of  Porphyry  was  printed  with  his 
| translations  of  Aristotle  at  Venice  in  1496,  and  that  of 
1 Basil  at  Rome  in  1515.  See  Hody,  De  Greeds  Illustri- 
■ bus,  p.  187-210;  Wharton  in  Cave,  Gist.  Lift,  ii,  Appen- 
j dix,  p.  168;  Fabricius,  Bibl.  Grac.  iii,  496,  etc.;  xi, 460, 
| etc. ; Smith,  Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Biog.  ii,  587. 


JOHX 


962 


JOHX 


John,  abbot  OK  St.  Arxoul  of  Metz,  is  first  men- 
tioned in  960.  when  he  succeeded  Anstee  in  that  office, 
lie  was  reputed  to  be  a learned  and  very  liberal  man 
for  the  times.  lie  granted  a charter  of  freedom  to  the 
inhabitants  of  Maurvillc,  formerly  serfs  of  the  abbey, 
and  divided  the  land  among  them,  retaining  only  for 
the  abbey  the  right  of  levying  certain  taxes.  He  died 
alioiit  977.  John  wrote  a Life  of  St.Glodcsinde  (Mabil- 
lon,  Acta  Sanctce,  vol.  ii,  col.  1087)  and  the  Life  of  St. 
John  de  Vcndierc,  abbot  of  Gorze  (Bollandii,  vol.  iii, 
Feb.).  See  Gallia  Christ,  vol.  xiii,  coL  900;  Hist.  Lift. 
(I  la  France , vii.  421 : lloefer,  Xouveuu  Biog.  Generale, 
xxvi,  530.  (J.  X.  1*.) 

John  of  Avila  ( Juan  de  A rila ),  the  apostle  of  An- 
dalusia in  the  loth  century,  was  born  at  Almodovar  del 
Campo,  a small  city  of  the  province  of  Toledo,  about 
the  year  1500.  II  is  father  intended  him  for  the  profes- 
sion^ law,  but,  after  a short  stay  at  the  University  of 
Salamanca,  he  returned  home,  and  spent  three  years  in 
strict  asceticism.  Then,  after  extended  studies  in  phi- 
losophy and  theology  under  Domingo  de  Soto,  he  com- 
menced preaching  with  great  success.  His  popularity 
excited  envy,  and  he  was  imprisoned  for  a very  short  | 
time  by  the  Inquisition.  After  preaching  for  nine  years  | 
in  Andalusia,  he  visited  also  Cordova,  Granada,  Baeza, 
Mnntilla,  etc.,  where  his  sermons — chiefly  in  honor  of  ! 
the  Virgin  Mary— proved  a great  success.  The  highest 
ecclesiastical  offices  were  now  offered  him ; pope  Paul 
III  contemplated  even  creating  him  cardinal,  but  John 
preferred  to  continue  the  work  of  an  itinerant  mission- 
ary. With  a view  to  the  early  religious  education  of 
the  people,  and  to  elevate  their  moral  standing  perma- 
nently, lie  established  schools  at  Seville,  Ubeda,  Baeza, 

( Jranada,  ( Ordova,  and  Montilla.  His  health  failed  him, , 
however,  and  he  remained  for  twenty  years  sick  at  the 
latter  place,  which  accounts  for  his  not  accompanying  I 
the  archbishop  of  Granada  to  the  Council  of  Trent. 

1 lore  he  composed  his  Fpistolario  espiritual (2  vols.  4to), 
which  has  been  translated  into  several  languages,  lie 
died  May  10,  1569.  1 1 is  Life  has  been  written  by  Luis 
de  Granada  (see  Obras  del  U.  P.  M.  Luis  de  Granada, 
Madrid,  1849;  Luis  Munnoz,  Vida  del  Ven.  Varon  el 
Maestro  Juan  de  Avila;  Antonio  de  Capinany,  Teatro 
kistoriro  de  la  elocuencin  Espanmla).  See  Fr.  J.  Schir- 
mer,  Werke  des  Juan  de  Avila  ( Sermones  del  santissiino 
snrram°nt<> ; de  la  inrarnacion  del  Hijo  de  Dios;  del 
Kspiritu  San'o ; las  festivitates  de  la  santissima  virgen 
Maria,  etc.),  Regensburg,  1856. — Herzog,  Real-Encyklo- 
pdlie,  vi,  737. 

John  Baptist,'  a French  missionary  priest  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  18th  and  the  beginning  of  the  19th 
century.  The  son  of  the  emperor  of  Cochin  China,  Gva- 
4 Long,  having  come  to  France  with  the  bishop  of  Adran 
in  1787,  concluded  a treaty  with  king  Louis  XVI,  by 
which  the  latter  was  to  aid  him  in  regaining  his  throne, 
which  he  had  lost,  by  a revolution.  Events  prevented 
Louis  from  keeping  his  promise,  but  Gva-Long,  bavin"- 
regained  his  kingdom,  called  to  his  court  the  bishop  of 
Adran,  who  became  his  prime  minister,  and  John  Bap- 
tist, who  had  acted  as  general  vicar  to  the  bishop,  lie 
also  enacted  several  laws  favoring  Roman  Catholicism. 
The  bishop  of  Adran  died  in  1817,  and  Gya-Long  him- 
self  in  181*1.  1 1 is  successor  being  opposed  to  ( 'hristian- 
it.v.  John  Baptist  left  llue-Foo,  the  capital  of  the  em- 
pire of  Anuaiii,  where  he  had  resided,  travelled  through 
the  East,  and  in  1827  settled  in  the  convent  of  St.  Fran- 
cis at  Macao,  where  he  died  July  9,  1817.  lb-  is  said  to 
have  left  a collection  of  interesting  documents  on  China 
and  the  other  countries  he  visited.  See  Le  Constitution- 
nel,  Oct.  17,  1817. — lloefer,  A ouv.  Biog.  Generale,  xxvi 
5G7.  (J.  N.  P.)  ’j 

John  ok  Bassora  is  the  name  of  a prelate  of  the  I 
Eastern  Church  who  nourished  at  Bassora,  the  ancient  j 
Bostra,  from  A.D.  617-650,  after  whom  one  of  the  litur- 
gies  of  the  Oriental  ( ’luireli  is  named.  He  was  formerly  j 
supposed  to  be  the  author  of  it,  but  Neale  thinks  it  of  , 


later  date,  and  supposes  it  had  its  origin  in  the  north- 
ern parts  of  Arabia.  See  Neale,  Hist,  of  East.  Church , 
Introd.  p.  328  (G). 

John  Bessariox.  See  Bessariox. 

John  ok  Beverly.  See  Beverly. 

John  Borellus.  See  John  of  Parma. 

John  of  Bruges.  Sec  Joris,  David;  Axabap- 

TISTS. 

John  Buridanus,  a celebrated  Nominalist  of  the 
14th  century,  was  born  at  Bethune,  in  Artois.  He  is  re- 
puted to  have  been  a pupil  of  Occam,  then  to  have  lec- 
tured with  great  ability  and  success  in  Paris,  and  to 
have  risen  to  the  distinction  of  rector  of  the  university 
of  that  city  about  1330,  and  to  have  quitted  that  place 
only  after  the  Realists  had  gained  the  ascendency  [see 
Realism  and  Nominalism],  and  to  have  assisted  in 
the  founding  of  the  university  at  Vienna.  He  was 
looked  upon  by  his  contemporaries  as  one  of  the  most 
powerfid  adversaries  of  Realism,  and  distinguished  him- 
self also  by  his  rides  for  finding  the  middle  term  in 
logic,  a species  of  contrivance  denominated  by  some  the 
Ass's  Bridge,  as  well  as  by  his  inquiries  concerning  free- 
will, wherein  he  approached  the  principles  of  Determi- 
natism,  maintaining  that  we  uecossarily  prefer  the 
greater  of  two  goods.  As  for  the  celebrated  illustration 
which  bears  his  name,  of  an  ass  dying  for  hunger  be- 
tween two  bundles  of  hay,  it  is  not  to  be  found  in  his 
writings,  which  are,  Qucestiones  in  X libb.  Ethicorum 
A ristot.  (Paris,  1489,  fol. ; Oxford,  1637,  4to) : — Quast.  in 
Polit. . 1 rist.  (Par.  1 500,  fol.) : — Compendium  Logical  (Ven. 
1499,  fol.): — Summula  de  Dialecticd  (Paris,  i487,  fol.); 
ilrc.  Complete  editions  of  his  works  were  published  at 
Paris  in  1500,  1516,  and  1518.  See  Bayle,  Jlistor.  Diet. 
art.  Buridanus;  Tennemann,  Gesrh.  der  Phil,  viii,  2,  914 
sq. ; Man.  of  Philos,  (transl.  by  M or  ell),  p.  246. 

John  ok  Capistrax.  See  Capistrax. 

John  tiie  Cappadocian,  patriarch  of  Constantino- 
ple (he  was  the  second  patriarch  of  the  name  of  John, 
Chrysostom  being  John  I)  from  A.D.  517  or  518,  was, 
before  his  election  to  the  patriarchate,  a presbyter  and 
syncellus  of  Constantinople.  Originally  be  sided  with 
the  opponents  of  the  Council  of  Chalcedon,  but  he  had 
cither  too  little  firmness  or  too  little  principle  to  follow 
out  steadily  the  inclination  of  his  own  mind,  for  he  ap- 
pears to  have  been  in  a great  degree  the  tool  of  others. 
On  the  death  of  Anastasius,  and  the  accession  of  the 
emperor  Justin  I,  the  orthodox  party  among  the  inhab- 
itants of  Constantinople  raised  a tumult,  and  compelled 
John  to  anathematize  Scverus  of  Antioch,  and  to  insert 
in  the  diptychs  the  names  of  the  fathers  of  the  Council 
of  Chalcedon,  and  restore  to  them  those  of  the  patriarchs 
Euphcmins  and  Macedonius.  These  diptychs  were  two 
tables  of  ecclesiastical  dignitaries,  one  containing  those 
who  were  living,  and  the  other  those  who  hail  died  in 
the  peace  and  communion  of  the  Church,  so  that  inser- 
tion was  a palpable  declaration  of  orthodoxy,  and  erasure 
of  heresy  or  schism.  These  measures,  extorted  in  the 
first  instance  by  popular  violence,  were  afterwards  sanc- 
tioned by  a synod  of  forty  bishops.  In  A.D.  519,  John, 
at  the  expressed  desire  of  Justin,  sought  a reconciliation 
with  the  Western  Church,  from  which,  under  Anasta- 
sius, the  Eastern  Church  had  separated,  and  in  this  task 
John  displayed  considerable  cunning.  Not  only  was  he 
successful  in  restoring  a friendly  and  unionlike  feeling 
between  the  Greek  and  Roman  churches,  but  Hormisdas 
even  left  to  him  the  task  of  bringing  about  also  the  rec- 
onciliation of  the  patriarchs  of  Antioch  and  Alexandria 
to  the  orthodox  Church.  See  Hormisdas.  In  this  he 
failed.  John  died  about  the  beginning  or  middle  of  the 
year  520,  as  appears  by  a letter  of  Hormisdas  to  his  suc- 
cessor Epiplianius.  John  wrote  several  letters  or  other 
papers,  a few  of  which  arc  still  extant.  Two  short  let- 
ters ('E7ri<7ToXm),  one  to  John,  patriarch  of  Jerusalem, 
•and  one  to  Epiplianius,  bishop  of  Tyre,  are  printed  in 
Greek,  with  a Latin  version,  in  the  Concilia,  among  the 
documents  relating  to  the  Council  of  Constantinople  in 


JOHN 


963 


JOHN 


A.D.  536  (v,  col.  185,  ed.  Labbe;  viii,  1065-67,  ed.  Man-  | 
si).  Four  rclationes,  or  Libclli,  arc  extant  only  in  a 
Latin  version  among  tlie  Epistohe  of  pope  Ilormisdas 
(in  the  Concilia,  iv,  1472, 1486,  1491,  15*21,  edit.  Labbe; 
viii,  436,  451,  457,  488,  edit.  Mansi),  it  is  remarkable 
that  in  the  two  short  Greek  letters  addressed  to  Eastern 
prelates  John  takes  the  title  of  oiKovptviKog  irarpidpx^iQi 
cecumenicul,  or  universal  patriarch  [see  Patriarch], 
and  is  supposed  to  be  the  first  that  assumed  this  ambi- 
tious designation.  It  is  remarkable,  however,  that  in 
those  pieces  of  his  which  were  addressed  to  pope  llor- 
misdas,  and  which  are  extant  only  in  the  Latin  version, 
the  title  does  not  appear;  and  circumstances  are  not 
wanting  to  lead  to  the  suspicion  that  its  presence  in  the 
(ireek  epistles  is  owing  to  the  mistake  of  some  tran- 
scriber, who  has  confounded  this  John  the  Cappadocian 
with  John  the  Faster.  It  is  certainly  remarkable  that 
the  title,  if  assumed,  should  have  incurred  no  rebuke 
from  the  jealousy  of  the  popes,  not  to  speak  of  the  other 
patriarchs  equal  in  dignity  to  John ; or  that,  if  once  as- 
sumed, it  should  have  been  dropped  again,  which  it 
must  have  been,  since  the  employment  of  it  by  John 
the  Faster  (q.  v.),  many  years  after,  was  violently  op- 
posed by  pope  Gregory  1 as  an  unauthorized  assump- 
tion. We  may  conjecture,  perhaps,  that  it  was  assumed 
by  the  patriarchs  of  Constantinople  without  opposition 
from  their  fellow-prelates  in  the  East  during  the  schism 
of  the  Eastern  and  Western  churches,  and  quietly  drop- 
ped on  the  termination  of  the  schism,  that  it  might  not 
prevent  the  re-establishment  of  friendly  relations.  See 
Theophanes,  Ch ronog.  p.  140-142,  ed.  Paris  (p.  112,  113, 
ed.  Yen. ; p.  253-256,  ed.  Bonn) ; Cave,  Hist.  Lift,  i,  503 ; 
Fabricius,  Bihl.  Gr.  xi,  99;  Smith,  Did.  Gr.  and  Rom. 
Eiog.  ii,  592. 

John  Chrysostom.  See  Chrysostom. 

John  of  Citrus  (now  Kitro  or  Kidros),  in  Mace- 
donia, the  ancient  Pydna,  was  bishop  of  that  see  about 
A.D.  1200.  He  is  the  author  of  ATroKptmig  rrpog  Kwn- 
OTav-ivov’ hpxinriaKOTTov  Avppa\iov  rbv  KafiaoiXav 
(Responsa  ad  Const antinum  Cabasifum , A rchiepiscopum 
Dyrrachii),  of  which  sixteen  answers,  with  the  ques- 
tions prefixed,  are  given  with  a Latin  version  in  the  Jus 
( / rwvo-Rom anorttm  of  Leunclavius  (Frankf.  1596,  folio), 
v,  323.  A larger  portion  of  the  Responsa  is  given  in 
the  Synopsis  Juris  Greed  of  Thomas  Diplovaticius  (Di- 
plovatizio).  Several  MSS.  of  the  Responsa  contain 
twenty-four  answers,  others  thirty-two;  and  Nicholas 
Comnenus  Fapadopoli,  citing  the  work  in  his  Pnvno- 
tiones  Mystagogiae,  speaks  of  a hundred.  In  one  MS. 
he  is  mentioned  with  the  surname  of  Dtdassimts.  Al- 
latius,  in  his  De  Consensu,  and  Contra  Hot  finger  um, 
cpiotes  De  Consueiudinibus  et  Dogmatibus  Latinorum  as 
the  production  of  John  of  Citrus.  See  Fabricius,  Bihl. 
Greeca,  xi,  341 , 590 ; Cave,  Ilist.  Lit.  ii.  279 ; Smith,  Dic- 
tionary of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography,  ii,  593. 

John  Cumacus.  See  John  tiie  Scholar,  2. 

J ohn  the  Constant,  elector  of  Saxony.  See  Ref- 
ormation (in  Germany). 

John  of  Constantinople.  See  John  the  Dea- 
con; John  the  Faster. 

John  (I,  patriarch)  of  Constantinople.  See 
Chrysostom. 

John  (II,  patriarch)  of  Constantinople.  See 
John  the  Cappadocian. 

John  (III,  patriarch)  of  Constantinople.  See 
John  the  Scholar  (1). 

John  (VI,  patriarch)  of  Constantinople  was  ap- 
pointed by  the  emperor,  Philippicus  Bardanes,  A.D.  712, 
for  his  Monothelite  opinions  and  his  rejection  of  the  au- 
thority of  the  sixth  oecumenical  (third  Constantinopol- 
itan)  council.  Cyrus,  the  predecessor  of  John,  was  de- 
posed to  make  way  for  him,  according  to  Cave.  John 
was  deposed,  not  long  after  his  elevation,  in  consequence, 
apparently,  of  the  deposition  of  his  patron  Philippicus, 
and  the  elevation  of  Artemius  or  Anastasius  II.  l'lie- 


ophancs  docs  not  notice  the  fate  of  John,  but  records 
the  elevation  of  his  successor,  Germanus,  metropolitan 
of  Cyzicus,  to  the  patriarchate  of  Constantinople  A.D. 
715.  John  wrote  ’E7rtfrroXi)  irpbg  Kuivaravrlvov  rbv 
ayabrarov  rrcvnav  'Vwpqg  cnroXoytriKr]  ( Epistola  ad 
Constantinum  Sanctissimum  Papain  Romanian  Apologet- 
ica),  in  which  lie  defends  certain  transactions  of  the 
reign  of  Philippicus.  This  letter  is  published  in  the 
Concilia  (vi,  col.  1407,  ed.  Labbe ; xii,  col.  196,  ed.  Man- 
si). It  had  previously  been  published  in  the  A uctarimn 
Novum  of  Combcfis,  ii,  211.  See  Fabricius,  Bibl.  Gr.  xi, 
152;  Cave,  Ilist.  Lit.  i,  619;  Smith,  Dictionary  of  Greek 
and  Roman  Biography,  ii,  593. 

John  of  Cornwall  was  an  eminent  theologian  of 
the  12th  century  whom  both  England  and  France  claim 
as  their  own.  Little  is  known  of  his  life,  lie  appears 
to  have  studied  at  Paris  mider  Peter  Lombard  and  Rob- 
ert of  Melun,  and  to  have  died  towards  the  close  of  the 
12th  century.  Great  uncertainty  also  prevails  respect- 
ing his  writings;  still  he  is  generally  considered  as  the 
author  of  a work  entitled  Eulogium  (publ.  by  Martenc, 
Anecdota,  v,  col.  1637).  It  is  a special  treatise  on  the 
human  nature  of  Christ,  refuting  the  subtle  distinctions 
of  Gilbert  de  la  Porree  and  other  scholastic  theologians, 
who  maintained  that  Christ,  quoad  liominem,  could  not 
be  considered  as  a mere  person,  aliquis;  or,  in  other 
words,  his  humanity  was  but  a contingent  or  accidental 
form  of  his  nature.  This  doctrine  had  already  been 
‘ condemned  by  pope  Alexander  III  in  the  Council  of 
Tours  (1163).  Casimir  Oudin  considers  him  also  as  the 
author  of  Libellus  de  Canone  mystici  Ubaminis,  contained 
in  the  works  of  lingo  of  St.  X'ictor,  vol.  ii,  etc.  See  Cas. 
Oudin,  De  Script.  Eccles. ; Hist.  Lit.  de  la  France,  vol. 
xiv. — Hocfer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Gen.  xxvi,  543. 

John  of  Crejia,  a cardinal  who  flourished  in  the 
first  half  of  the  12th  century,  is  celebrated  for  his  exer- 
tions in  behalf  of  the  cause  of  pope  Calixtus  II  against  his 
adversary  Burdin,  and  especially  for  bis  activity  in  the 
English  Church,  whither  he  was  sent  by  pope  Honorius 
II,  in  1 126,  to  enforce  the  laws  of  celibacy  on  the  English 
clergy,  llow  successful  he  was  in  this  mission  may  be 
best  judged  from  the  sudden  termination  of  his  stay  on 
the  English  continent.  Not  only  did  the  English  cler- 
gy violently  oppose  the  cardinal’s  efforts,  but  he  was 
even  entrapped  into  a snare  that  must  have  considera- 
bly annoyed  the  eminent  Roman  Catholic  ecclesiastic. 
Says  Lea  (Hist.  Sacerdotal  Celib.  p.  293 ; compare  lnett, 
Ilist.  Eng.  Ch.  ii,  chap,  viii),  the  cardinal,  “after  fiercely 
denouncing  the  concubines  of  priests,  and  expatiating 
on  the  burning  shame  that  the  body  of  Christ  should 
be  made  by  one  who  had  just  left  the  side  of  a harlot, 
he  was  that  very  night  surprised  in  the  company  of  a 
courtesan,  though  he  had  on  the  same  day  celebrated 
mass.”  Although  instrumental,  after  his  return  to  Rome, 
in  the  election  of  pope  Innocent  II  (1130),  the  latter  af- 
terwards forsook  him,  and  John  for  a time  espoused  the 
cause  of  the  rival  pope,  Anacletns,  returning,  of  course, 
again  to  obedience  to  Innocent  II  as  soon  as  he  had 
learned  that  by  such  an  act  only  he  could  advance  his 
own  interests.  The  time  of  his  death  is  not  known 
to  us. 

John,  the  deacon  and  orator  (Aiokoroc  kcii  P rr 
rujp ) of  Constantinople,  was  a deacon  of  the  great  church 
(St.  Sophia)  in  that  city  about  the  end  of  the  9tli  cen- 
tury. He  wrote  Abyog  tig  rbv  (31  ov  rov  iv  ciyloig  rra- 
rpbg  ijpdjv  ’ l lom'ifi,  rov  i’pvoypctfov  (T  it  a S.  Josephi 
Ilymnographi),  published  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum  (April 
j 3),  vol.  i,  a Latin  version  being  given  in  the  body  of 
the  work,  with  a learned  Commentarius  Pravius  at  p. 
266,  etc.,  and  the  original  in  the  Appendix,  p.  xxxiv. 
! Alla ti us  (De  Psellis,  c.  xxx)  cites  another  work  of  this 
I writer,  entitled  Tig  o aicoTrbg  r<p  3 sop  rqg  irpiorqg  rov 
j civSpunrov  nXdentsig,  k.  r.  X.  (Quid  est.  Consilium  Dei  in 
i prima  Hominis  formatione,  etc.).  The  designation  Jo- 
l annes  Diaconus  is  common  to  several  mediaeval  writ- 
j ers,  as  John  Galcnus  or  Pediasmus;  John  Hypatius,- 


JOHN 


9G4 


JOHN 


John,  deacon  of  Rome;  and  John  Diacmius,  a contem- 
porary and  correspondent  of  George  of  Trchizond.  See 
A eta  Sanctorum,  1.  c. ; Fabricius,  Biblica  Grccca , x,  264 : 
xi,  604;  Cave,  Hist.  Lit.  ii,  Dissertatio  i.  11 ; Gudin,  De 
Scriptoribus  et  Scriptis  Ecdesiasticis,  ii,  335.— Smith, 
Diet.  Greek  and  Roman  Biop.  ii,  564. 

John  of  CniissY.  See  John  tite  Monk. 

John  Cypabissiota  (Kviraparffuorgg),  snrnamed 
the  Wise,  an  ecclesiastical  writer,  lived  in  the  latter  half 
„f  the  14th  century,  not  in  the  middle  of  the  12tli,  as 
erroneously  stated  by  Labbe  in  his  Chronologia  Brevis 
Ecclesiast icorum  Scriptorum.  Cvparissiota  was  an  op- 
ponent of  Gregory  Palamas  (q.  v.)  and  his  followers  (the 
believers  in  the  light  of  Mount  Tabor),  and  most  of  his 
works  (of  which  some  were  written  alter  1359)  had  ref- 
erence to  that  controversy.  They  compose  a series  of 
live  treatises,  but  only  the  first  and  fourth  books  of  the 
first  treatise  of  the  series,  Palamiticarum  Transgressio- 
nmn  Libri  ir , have  been  published.  They  appeared, 
with  a Latin  version,  in  the  Auetarium  Xovissimum  of 
Comhefis,  ii,  68-105,  and  the  Latin  version  was  given  in 
the  Bibliotheca  Patrum,  xxi,  476,  etc.  (ed.  Lyons,  1677). 
Cvparissiota  wrote  also  "Eie^fcnf;  oToiyfoOii//';  pijaewv 
HfoXoyocioy  ( Ex  posit  io  Materiarum  eorum  qwe  de  Deo  a 
Theolog'ts  dinmtur ).  The  work  is  divided  into  one  hun- 
dred chapters,  which  are  subdivided  in  ten  decades  or 
portions  of  ten  chapters  each,  from  which  arrangement 
the  work  is  sometimes  referred  to  by  the  simple  title  of 
Decades.  A Latin  version  of  it  by  Franciscus  Turrianus 
was  published  at  Rome  in  15K1,  4to,  and  was  reprinted 
in  the  Bibliotheca  Patrum,  xxi, 377,  etc. — Combefis,  .1  uc- 
tar.  Xovissim.  ii,  105 ; Fabricius,  Bibl.  Gr.  xi,  507 ; Cave, 
Hist.  Lift.  vol.  ii,  Appendix  by  Gery  and  Wharton,  p.  65 ; 
Oudin,  De  Scriptor.  et  Scriptis  Ecdesiasticis,  iii,  1062; 
Smitli,  Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Biog.  ii,  594. 

John  of  Damascus  (Johannes  Damascenes,  Tw- 
dvvrjr  Aa/taotjKvog)  (1),  one  of  the  early  ecclesiastical 
writers,  and  the  author  of  the  standard  text-book  of 
dogmatic  theology  in  the  Greek  Church,  was  born  at 
Damascus  about  the  year  676.  His  oratorical  talents 
caused  him  to  be  snrnamed Chrgsorrhoas  (golden  stream) 
bv  his  friends  (the  Arabs  called  him  Mansur).  Little 
is  known  of  his  life  except  that  he  belonged  to  a high 
family,  was  ordained  priest,  and  entered  the  convent  of 
St.  Sabas  at  Jerusalem,  where  he  passed  his  life  in  the 
midst  of  literary  labors  and  theological  studies.  The 
other  details  found  concerning  him  in  his  biography  by 
John,  patriarch  of  Jerusalem,  arc  considered  untrust- 
worthy. According  to  this  writer,  John  Damascemis’s 
father  was  a Christian,  and  governor  of  the  province  of 
Damascus,  then  in  the  hands  of  the  Saracens,  and  John 
was  ablv  educated  by  an  Italian  monk.  Under  Leo  the 
Isaurhn  and  Constantine  Capronymus  he  zealously  de- 
fended image  worship  both  by  his  pen  and  tongue,  and 
even  went  to  Constantinople  on  that  account.  A leg- 
endary story  relates  that  Leo,  who  was  then  a decided 
iconoclast,  forged  a treasonable  letter  from  John  to  him- 
self, which  he  contrived  to  pass  into  the  hands  of  the 
calipli,  who  sentenced  John  to  have  his  right  hand  cut 
oil)  when  the  severed  hand  was  restored  to  the  arm  by 
a miracle.  About  that  time,  however,  John  withdrew 
from  the  caliph's  court  to  the  monastery  of  St.  Saba, 
near  .Jerusalem,  where  he  passed  the  remainder  of  his 
life  in  ascetic  practices  and  study,  lie  died  between 
75  f and  7*7.  In  the  former  year  we  find  his  last  public 
a<  t,  a protest  against  the  Iconoclastic  Synod  at  Constan- 
tinople, and  in  the  latter  the  (Ecumenical  Council  of 
A'icc  honored  his  memory  with  a eulogy.  The  Greek 
Church  commemorates  liim  on  November  29  and  De- 
cember 4,  and  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  on  May  6. 
( Imrcli  writers  agree  in  considering  John  Damascenus 
as  superior  to  all  his  contemporaries  in  philosophy  and 
erudition;  yet  his  works,  though  justifying  his  reputa- 
tion, are  deficient  in  criticism. 

The  most  important  literary  achievement  of  Damas- 
cenus IS  the  11/jy,)  yvwotug  (Source  of  Knowledge), 


comprising  the  following  three  works : 1.  Kf^aXnta 
<l>i\o<TO<piica,  or  Dialectics,  which  treats  almost  exclu- 
I sivclv  of  logical  and  ontological  categories,  based  main- 
ly on  Aristotle  and  Porphyry:— 2.  nfpi  aipeaeiov  iv 
cvvTovia,  De  hceresibus,  containing  in  103  articles  a 
chronological  synopsis  of  the  heresies  in  the  Christian 
Church,  with  a few  articles  on  the  errors  of  pagans  and 
Jews  (the  first  eighty  are  really  the  work  of  Epiplia- 
nius;  the  remainder  partly  treat  of  the  heresies  from 
the  time  of  Epiphanius  to  that  of  the  image  controver- 
sies, according  to  Theodoretus,  Sophronius,  Leontius  of 
Byzantium,  etc.,  and  partly  of  fictitious  sects,  which 
merely  represent  possible,  uot  actual  errors  of  belief) : — 
3.  The  third  and  most  important  work,  to  which  the 
former  two  were  really  simply  the  introduction,  is  enti- 
tled “EkSooiq  atcpifi>)g  rijg  Trirrrtuig  6p$oSb%ov,  Doc- 
trines of  the  Orthodox  Church,  collected  from  the  writ- 
ings of  the  Church  fathers,  especially  Gregory  of  Nazi- 
I anzum,  Athanasius,  Basil  the  Great,  Gregory  of  Nyssa, 
Chrysostom,  Epiphanius,  Cyril,  Nemesius,  and  others. 
The  whole  work  is  divided  into  100  sections  or  four 
books  (the  latter  is  probably  a later  arrangement),  and 
treats  of  the  following  subjects : (a)  God's  existence,  es- 
sence, unity,  and  the  jwssibility  o f knowing  him.  Though 
John  teaches  that  it  is  neither  impossible  to  know  God, 
nor  possible  to  know  him  all;  that  his  essence  is  neither 
expressible  nor  entirely  inexpressible,  he  nevertheless 
inclines  to  the  transcendental  character  of  the  idea  of 
God,  assigning  to  human  thought  incapacity  for  its 
conception,  and  referring  man,  in  the  end,  as  Areopagi- 
tes  does,  to  the  records  of  divinely  revealed  truth.  It 
may  be  considered  as  a characteristic  feature  of  his  the- 
ology that  it  principally  dwells  on  God’s  metaphysical 
attributes,  hardly  touching  the  ethical  question.  ( b ) 
The  Trinity,  to  which  he  gives  great  prominence,  lie 
not  only  repeats  the  doctrines  of  the  Greek  Church,  as 
well  as  the  arguments  of  the  Greek  fathers,  but  resumes 
a scientific  construction  of  the  dogma  within  the  estab- 
lished creed,  though  admitting  that  there  are  certain 
bouids  to  the  inquiry,  which  human  reason  cannot 
scale  (’Achvarov  yap  eopeSijvai  iv  r/j  tcTtrru  etKtiva 
d7rapciAAdiCTwg  iv  iavri ) ror  rporrov  rijg  dyiag  Tpia- 
cog  TrapuSiiKvvovaav).  The  Trinity,  therefore,  can- 
not lie  adequately  conceived  nor  defined,  llis  real  ob- 
ject in  the  discussion  seems  to  be  to  found  the  personal- 
ity of  the  Adyof  and  of  the  Trvevpa  ayiov  upon  the 
unity  of  the  divine  essence,  and,  further,  to  describe  the 
nature  of  coexistence,  and  of  personal  difference  in  the 
Triune,  and  the  reciprocal  relations  of  the  three  persons 
— 7Tf pixtoptjmg — with  all  attainable  strictness,  and  he  at- 
tempts to  achieve  this  result  rather  by  the  negative  pro- 
cess of  excluding  fallacies  than  by  positive  demonstra- 
tion. Whenever  he  ventures  upon  the  latter  be  fluctuates 
between  Pcripateticisra,  tending  to  Tritlieism.and  Plato- 
nism, leading  almost  imperceptibly  to  Sabelliauism  and 
Modalism.  (c)  Creation,  Angels,  and  Daanons.  On  these 
be  simply  collects  the  doctrines  of  his  predecessors,  clos- 
ing with  a somewhat  lengthy  exposition  of  his  views 
on  heaven,  heavenly  bodies,  light,  fire,  winds,  water, 
earth,  also  chiefly  based  on  the  authority  of  the  fathers. 
Some  singular  opinions  of  his  own  he  attempts  to  sup- 
port by  scriptural  passages.  (iT)  Man,  his  creation  and 
nature,  are  so  treated  by  him  that  they  may  aptly  be 
termed  a psychology  in  mice.  Here  he.  again  depended 
on  Aristotle  and  other  Greek  authors,  in  part  directly, 
and  in  part  through  the  medium  of  Nemesius,  irtoi  (pv- 
atug  dvSpunrov.  Like  a genuine  son  of  the  Greek 
Church,  he  lays  particular  stress  on  the  doctrine  of  free 
will  and  its  ettieacy  for  good,  and  treats  in  connection 
therewith  of  the  doctrines  of  providence  and  predesti- 
nation, following  in  the  footsteps  of  Chrysostom  and 
Nemesius.  (e)  Man's  fall  is  merely  adverted  to  in  the 
vague  oratorical  manner  of  Semipelagian  writers,  with- 
out the  least  regard  for  the  great  development  which 
this  doctrine  had  received  in  the  Western  Church.  ( f ) 
The  doctrine  of  the  person  of  Christ  is  argued  with 
greatest  fullness,  and  lie  evinces  no  little  ingenuity  and 


JOHN 


965 


JOHN 


dialectic  skill  in  treating  of  the  personal  unity  in  Christ’s 
twofold  nature  (which  he  conceived  as  enliypostasis,  not 
anliypostasis,  of  the  human  nature  in  the  Logos),  of  the 
communicatio  idiomatum  (which,  however,  amounts  to 
merely  a verbal  one),  and  of  volition  and  the  operation 
of  volition  in  Christ.  This  exposition  of  Christology  is 
followed  by  controversial  tracts  against  the  Aeepliali : 
irtpi  avvSrtrov  <pvo(wg ; and  against  the  Monothclitcs : 
irepi  rwv  iv  Xptcrrui  dvo  StXgpdriov  icai  ivtpyeiwv  icai 
Xonrwv  (pvrrtKiov  ifiunpdruiv,  etc.  (comp.  Raur,  Gesch.d. 
Dreieinigkeit,  ii,  1 7(5  sq. ; Christologie,  ii,  257).  (7)  Bap- 

tism (which  is  allegorically  represented  as  sevenfold)  lie 
holds  to  be  necessary  for  the  forgiveness  of  sin  and  for 
eternal  life.  Body  and  soul,  to  he  purified  and  saved, 
need  regeneration,  which  comes  from  the  water  and  the 
Spirit,  (h)  Faith  “ is  the  acceptance  of  the  7ropd()o(Ti£ 
rijg  tKK\i)!Tiac  icaSoXucpg,  and  of  the  teachings  of  Scrip- 
ture; it  is  also  confidence  in  the  fulfilment  of  Cod’s 
promises  and  in  the  efficacy  of  our  prayers.  The  for- 
mer depends  on  ourselves,  the  latter  is  a gift  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.”  On  the  relation  of  faith  to  works,  on  regener- 
ation and  sanctification,  he  but  imperfectly  repeats  the 
Semipelagian  views  of  the  earlier  Creek  teachers.  His 
remarks  on  the  cross  and  on  adoration  reflect  the  mirac- 
ulous spirit  of  the  times.  ( i ) The  Eucharist  John 
teaches  to  be  the  means  by  which  Cod  completes  his 
communication  of  himself  to  man,  and  thus  restores  him 
to  immortality.  Transubstantintion,  in  the  full  accep- 
tance of  the  term,  he  docs  not  teach,  though  Romanists 
have  tried  to  interpret  his  writings  in  favor  of  their 
views.  He  admits,  it  is  true,  that  the  Eucharist  is  the 
actual  body  of  Christ,  but  he  does  not  consider  it  identi- 
cal with  that  which  was  glorified  in  heaven,  and  does 
not  deem  the  bread  and  wine  mere  accidental  phenom- 
ena. (j)  On  Mart/,  the  Immaculate  Conception , Relics , 
and  the  Worship  of  Images,  he  expresses  himself  more 
explicitly  in  separate  treatises.  The  authority  for  ador- 
ing the  cross,  images,  etc.,  he  finds,  not  in  Scripture,  but 
in  tradition,  (k)  In  his  remarks  011  the  Scrijdures  he 
alludes  simply,  and  that  very  briefh',  to  inspiration,  and 
the  value  of  Holy  Writ,  repeats  the  canon  of  the  O.  T. 
according  to  Epipbanius,  and  includes  in  the  books  of 
the  N.  T.  the  canons  of  the  apostles  according  to  the 
Trullan  canon.  Incidentally  lie  also  adverts  to  the  four 
different  formulas  used  in  Scripture  to  designate  Christ 
ami  the  origin  of  evil,  which  he  holds  can  neither  be 
assigned  to  God,  nor  to  an  evil  principle  independent  of 
God.  Celibacy  John  attempts  to  vindicate  by  the 
Scriptures;  he  alludes  to  the  abrogation  of  circumcision, 
to  anti-Christ,  resurrection,  and  the  last  judgment. 
These  are  the  principal  contents  of  John’s  main  work. 
He  has  by  no  means  done  equal  justice  to  all  its  parts; 
the  important  questions  of  atonement,  sin,  grace,  and 
the  means  of  salvation,  receive  only  a cursory  notice. 
The  style  of  his  discourse,  owing  to  the  diversity  of  his 
sources,  is  not  uniform;  while,  for  the  most  part,  it  has 
strength  and  fluency,  it  sometimes  lapses  into  rhetorical 
prolixity  and  affectation.  John  was  particularly  in- 
clined to  the  philosophy  of  Aristotle,  and  wrote  various 
popular  tracts,  in  which  he  collected  and  illustrated  that 
philosopher’s  principles.  He  wrote  also  letters  and 
treatises  against  heretics,  especially  against  the  Mani- 
chaeans  and  Nestorians.  His  works  have  been  collected 
by  Le  Quien  under  the  title  Opera  omnia  Damasceni 
Jolt,  qiue  extant , etc.,  Gr.  and  Lat.  (Yenet.  1748,  2 vols. 
8vo).  This  edition  contains  K tipdXaia  (piXoaotpncd ; 
n«pi  aioiaeuiv  ; "EicIooic  (ucpifigg  t ijg  0 p$o£6£ov  rria- 
Ttujg ; npeg  roec;  ciafidXXovrag  rug  dying  thcovcig; 
Aif3e\\og  TTtpi  do.S'oi)  irpovogparog ; Tdpog ; Kara 
Xlavi\aiiov  AtdXoyof  ; AidXoyo?  Xapaicpvov  xai 
Xoioriavov  ; nfpi  Cpaicuvrinv  ; ntpi  dyiag  Tpiddog  ; 
mpi  roi)  rptaayion  vpvov  ; Ilfpi  rwi'  dyiujv  vijoreuov  ; 
ntoi  rwv  oktu)  rijg  irovifoiag  irvtvpdrwv ; Eicrayioyi) 
doypdrujv  oTotxfudFpg  ; nfpi  owSirov  (fivotug ; Hfpi 
riov  iv  ng  Xptarig  evo  StXgpdrujv  icai  ivtaynuiv  icai 
Xoittwv  (pvmKtLv  icuofidrtnv ; "E7rog  ducptfifirrarov  Kara 
Srtoorvyovg  aiptatwg  ruiv  X tcropiavdv  \ n«c\dXior; 


Aoyop  dirodiucrncbg  Trepi  nov  dyiwv  icai  aeirriov  tiico- 
vojv  ; nfpi  ruiv  dZvpiov  ; 'If pci  7rapdX\t]\a,  etc. 

John  of  Damascus  is  now  generally  regarded  as  one 
of  the  ablest  men  of  the  Greek  Church  in  the  8th  cen- 
tury; but  he  by  no  means,  on  that  account,  deserves  to 
be  honored  with  the  title  of  “philosopher.”  lie  was 
not  an  independent  inquirer,  but  simply  “an  acute  and 
diligent  compiler  and  expounder  of  what  others  had 
thought,  and  the  Church  received."  “ He  was,”  as  an 
American  ecclesiastic  has  well  put  it,  “ in  design,  meth- 
od, and  spirit,  the  precursor  of  the  scholastic  theologi- 
ans. They,  indeed,  lived  in  another  quarter  of  the 
globe  from  Syria,  spoke  a different  language,  and  drew 
their  materials  from  a different  source.  With  them 
Augustine  was  the  chief  authority,  whereas  Damas- 
cenus  followed  Gregory  of  Nazianzum  and  other  Greek 
fathers  as  his  principal  guides.  The  spirit  of  the  age 
no  doubt  acted  in  a similar  way  upon  both.  It  was 
considered  unsafe,  both  in  a religious  and  in  a civil 
point  of  view,  to  think  differently  from  the  Church  and 
its  reverend  teachers.  In  the  West,  as  well  as  in  the 
East,  Aristotle  had  come  to  be  regarded  as  an  oracle. 
These  circumstances  may  account,  in  part,  for  the  simi- 
larity which  we  perceive  both  in  the  Greek  theologian 
and  in  Peter  of  Lombardy,  the  first  great  rcholastic  the- 
ologian of  the  Latin  Church.  But  no  one  who  has  com- 
pared the  orthodox  faith  of  the  one  with  the  sentences 
of  the  other  can  well  doubt  that  some  of  the  early  trans- 
lations of  the  former  were  employed  in  the  composition 
of  the  latter.  It  cannot,  probably,  be  far  from  the  truth 
I to  say  that,  while  Augustine  is  the  father  of  the  sclio- 
' lastic  theology  as  to  the  matter  of  it,  the  learned  Greek 
of  Damascus  was  the  father  of  it  as  to  its  form.” 

I John  of  Damascus  is  generally  considered  as  the  re- 
1 storer  of  the  practice  of  chanting  in  the  Greek  Church, 
and  he  is  also  named  as  the  author  of  a number  of 
hymns  yet  in  use  in  that  Church.  It  is  by  no  means 
proved,  however,  that  he  was  the  inventor  of  musical 
notation,  as  some  have  affirmed.  Copies  of  a MS.  trea- 
tise on  Church  music,  of  which  he  is  considered  the  au- 
J tlior,  are  to  be  found  in  several  European  (public)  libra- 
ries : it  was  published  by  abbe  Gerbert  in  the  2d  vol.  of 
his  treatise  De  Cantu  et  Musica  Sacra.  It  was  trans- 
lated into  French  by  Yilloteau  in  his  memoir  Sur  VEtut 
actuel  de  l' Art  musical  en  Fggpte  (in  Description  de 
FlCggpte,  xiv,  380  sq.).  See  Jean  de  Jerusalem,  J7<?  de 
St.Jetm  de  Dumas  (in  Surius,  Vitce  Sanctorum,  May  6); 
Lenstrbm,  De  fdei  orthod.  auctore  J.  Damasceno  (Up- 
sal.  1839);  Fabricins,  Bill.  Groca,  ix.  682-744;  Cave, 
Hist.  Litt.  i,  482  (Lond.  ed.  1688) ; Ceillier,  IJistoire  gen . 
des  auteurs  sucres , xviii,  110  sq. ; Schrbckh,  Kirchen- 
gesek.  xx,  420;  Christian  Rev.  vii,  594  sq. ; Ilagenbach, 
Doctrines  (see  Index);  Fetis,  Biog.  des  Musiciens. 

John  of  Damascus  (2).  See  John  of  Jerusa- 
lem (3). 

John,  Jacobite  bishop  of  Dara  (a  city  in  Mesopo- 
tamia, near  Nisibis)  in  the  first  half  of  the  9tli  century 
(not  in  the  6th  or  7th,  as  says  Cave  in  his  Jlist.  Litt. 
ii,  131,  nor  in  the  4th,  as  is  maintained  by  Abraham  Ec- 
chelensis,  nor  in  the  8th,  as  it  is  said  by  Assemani  in 
his  Bibliotheca  Orientalis,  ii,  118;  see  also  ii,  219  and 
347).  He  was  a contemporary  of  Dionys.  of  Tclmahar, 
who  dedicated  his  chronicle  to  him  (see  Assemani,  Bill. 
Orient,  ii,  247).  A manuscript  of  the  Vatican,  used  by 
Abraham  Ecchelensis,  contains  three  works  in  Syriac  by 
John:  1.  De  resurrectione  corporum,  in  four  books 2. 
De  hitrarckia  ceelesti  et  ecclesiasiica,  two  books,  ascribed 
to  the  pseudo-Dionysius  on  account  of  the  similarity  of 
names  : — 3.  De  sacerdotio,  four  books  (Assemani,  ii.  1 18 
sq.).  He  is  also  considered  as  the  author  of  the  book  De 
Anima  (Assemani,  ii,  219),  which  he  probably  composed 
after  the  work  of  Gregory  of  Nyssa,  whose  writings  he 
I also  used  otherwise  (Assemani,  iii,  22)  ; and  also  an  An- 
aphora (according  to  the  Catalogus  liturgiarum,  by 
Selinlting,  pt.  iii.  p.  106,  No.  29). — Herzog.  Real-Encyk. 
vi,  746.  (J.  N.  P.) 


JOHN 


966 


JOHN 


John  i»e  Diet  (Johannes  a Deo),  saint,  founder  of 
th  • order  of  diarity,  was  born  at  Monte-Mor-el-Novo, 
Portugal,  Mareli  8,  1495.  An  unknown  priest  stole  him 
from  his  father,  a pour  man  called  Andrea  Ciudad,  and 
afterwards  abandoned  him  at  Oropesa,  in  Castile.  After 
roving  about  many  years,  he  was  led  to  dedicate  him- 
self to"a  religious  life  by  the  preaching  of  John  of  Avila, 
whom  he  heard  at  Grenada.  So  excited  became  he, 
that,  according  to  liiehard  and  Giraud,  he  went  through 
the  town  flogging  himself,  and  never  stopped  till  he 
went,  half  dead,  to  the  hospital.  1 Ie  resolved  to  devote 
himself  to  the  care  of  the  sick,  and  changed  his  family 
name  for  de  Iheu  (a  Deo),  by  permission  of  tbe  bishop 
of  Tni.  In  1540  he  opened  the  first  house  of  his  order 
at  Seville,  and  died  March  8, 1550,  without  leaving  any 
set  rules  for  his  disciples.  In  1572  pope  Pius  V subject- 
ed them  to  the  rule  of  St,  Augustine,  adding  a vow  to 
devote  themselves  to  the  care  of  the  sick,  and  sundry 
other  regulations.  See  Charity,  Brothers  of.  John 
dc  Dieu  was  canonized  by  pope  Alexander  VIII,  Octo- 
ber 10, 1G90.  He  is  commemorated  on  the  8th  of  March. 
See  Castro  et  Girard  de  Yille-Thierri,  Vies  de  St.  Jean  de 
Dieu ; Baillet,  Vies  des  Saints,  March  8 ; lleliot.  Ilistoire 
d<s  Ordres  Monastiques,  vol.  tv,  eh.  xviii ; Iloefer,  A 'our. 
JH»g.  Gene  rale,  xxvi,  442  sq. 

John  of  Pranoorf,  a Saxon  Hussite,  renowned  as 
one  of  the  ablest  of  the  German  reformers  before  the 
Deformation,  was  bom  of  noble  parentage  at  Slieben,  or 
Schlieben,  in  the  diocese  of  Meissen,  about  the  beginning 
of  tbe  loth  century,  lie  studied  at  Dresden  under  the 
celebrated  Peter  Dresdensis,  then  went  to  Prague,  and 
further  imbibed  reformatory  opinions,  and  finally  com- 
pleted bis  studies  at  the  newly-founded  University  of 
Leipzig.  Unable  to  obtain  ordination  on  account  of  his 
heretical  proclivities,  he  travelled  through  Germany  and 
Bohemia,  preaching  against  all  unfaithful  shepherds  of 
the  Roman  Church,  and  finally  succeeded  in  gathering 
a congregation,  first  at  Weinsberg,  then  at  Heilbronn. 
The  civil  authorities,  however,  interfered,  and  he  was 
imprisoned  and  transported  to  Heidelberg,  there  to  be 
judged  by  the  faculty  of  the  university,  which  took  so 
active  a part  in  the  trial  and  condemnation  ofllnss  and 
Jerome  ar  the  Council  of  Constance.  The  faculty  met 
l obrnary  13, 1425,  and,  after  a few  days’  hearing,  John 
of  Driindorf  was  condemned  as  a heretic,  and  was  burned 
at  Worms  in  great  haste,  lest  the  laymen,  as  these  doc- 
tors have  it,  should  partake  of  his  heretical  spirit.  See 
Krummcl,  in  Theol.  Stud,  wul  Krit.  1869,  i.  130  so.  < J 
II. W.)  1 ^ ' 

John  Pens  Scotch.  See  Di  ns  Scotfs. 

John  of  Egypt  (Joannes  JCgvptifs),  a Christian 
martyr  who  suffered  in  Palestine  in  the  Diocletian  per- 
secution, is  spoken  of  by  Eusebius,  who  knew  him  per- 
sonally. as  (lie  most  illustrious  of  the  sufferers  in  Dales- 
tine,  and  especially  worthy  of  admiration  for  his  philo- 
sophic (i.  e.  ascetic)  life  and  conversation,  and  for  the 
wonderful  strength  of  his  memory.  After  the  loss  of 
his  eyesight  he  acted  as  anagnostes,  or  reader  in  the 
Church,  supplying  the  want  of  sight  l»v  his  extraordi- 
nary ] lower  of  memory,  lie  could  'recite  correctlv 
whole  books  of  Scripture,  whether  from  the  Prophets 
the  Gospels,  or  the  apostolic  Epistles.  ]„  the  seventh 
year  <.l  the  persecution,  A.D.310,  he  was  treated  with 
great  cruelty ; one  foot  was  Intrncd  off,  and  lire  was  ap- 
plied to  his  sightless  eyeballs  for  the  mere  purpose  of 
orture.  As  lie  was  unable  to  undergo  the  toil  of  the 
mines  or  the  public  works,  lie  and  several  others  (among  ' 
whom  was  Sflvauus  of  Gaza),  whom  age  or  infirmity 
had  disabled  from  labor,  were  confined  in  a place  bv 
l 'cn'*lv^  I„  ,1,0  fiKli,l,  v,,,r  tl,e  per**., tie, i, 

, ’ . ’ 1 '?  wholc  Part.v,  thirty-nine  in  number,  were 

decap, tated  in  one  day  by  order  of  Maximin  Daza.  who  1 
t hen  governed  tbe  eastern  provinces.  See  Eusebius,  l)e  I 
j ' ■ 7 (!!,.cstlno’'  subjoined  to  the  eighth 


John  Eleemosynaries.  See  John  the  Alms- 
giver. 

John  (surnamed  Lackland)  king  of  England,  and 
youngest  son  of  Henry  II,  was  born  at  Oxford  Dec.  24, 
1166.  After  the  conquest  of  Ireland,  his  father,  in  ac- 
cordance with  a bull  from  tbe  pope  authorizing  Henry 

II  to  invest  any  one  of  his  sons  with  the  lordship  of  Ire- 
land, appointed  him  to  the  government  of  that  country 
in  1178,  and  he  removed  thither  in  1185;  but.  be  fail- 
ed so  utterly  in  tbe  task  that  lie  was  recalled  in  a few 
months.  He  had  always  been  the  favorite  of  his  fa- 
ther. and  is  said  to  have  caused  his  death  by  joining 
his  elder  brothers  in  rebellion  against  Henry  (of  course, 
the  controvers3r  with  Thomas  ii  Becket,  anti  his  remorse 
after  the  archbishop's  death,  contributed  no  little  to  the 
sudden  death  of  Henry  II).  Upon  his  brother  Richard’s 
succession  he  obtained  a very  favorable  position  in  the 
English  realm;  indeed,  so  many  earldoms  were  confer- 
red on  him  that  he  was  virtually  sovereign  of  nearly 
one  third  of  the  kingdom.  But  this  by  no  means  satis- 
fied John,  by  nature  base,  cowardly,  and  covetous.  Dur- 
ing the  absence  of  his  brother  on  a crusade,  he  sought 
even  to  obtain  for  himself  the  crown,  but  failed  signally, 
earning  only  a very  unenviable  reputation  for  himself, 
while  greatly  increasing  the  affection  of  the  English 
people  for  Richard.  Upon  the  death  of  the  latter,  John, 
by  express  wish  of  Rtchard  on  his  death-bed,  ascended 

, tbe  long-coveted  throne  (May  26, 1199).  Tbe  aceusa- 
i tion  that  John  avoided  the  claims  of  Arthur,  the  sou  of 
I his  elder  brother  Geoffrey,  by  imprisoning  him  and  then 
' privately  putting  him  out  of  the  way,  are  questions 
which  belong  to  secular  historians.  It  remains  for  us 
to  state  here  only  that  king  Philip  Augustus  of  France, 
who  had  espoused  John’s  cause  in  opposition  to  Richard, 

J now  espoused  the  cause  of  Arthur,  and  involved  John  in 
a war  in  which  the  latter  was  severely  the  loser,  France 
regaining  by  1204  the  provinces  that  had  been  wrested 
from  her.  Far  more  serious  were  the  results  of  another 
contest  into  which  he  was  drawn,  in  1205,  by  the  death 
i of  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  which  forms  a 
most  important  chapter  in  the  history  of  investiture. 
Insisting  upon  the  royal  right  of  investiture,  John  first 
waged  war  against  his  own  clergy,  until  finally  Innocent 

III  also  took  up  the  gauntlet,  and  thus  dre\y  upon  him- 
self not  only  the  formidable  hostility  of  tbe  whole  body 
of  the  national  clergy,  but  also  of  one  of  the  ablest  and 

, most  imperious  pontiffs  of  Rome  (see  Innocent  III). 
The  question  at  issue  was,  of  course,  the  election  of  a 
I successor  to  the  lately  vacated  archbishopric.  It  had 
j hitherto  been  the  custom  of  the  clergy  to  defer  the  elec- 
| dun  to  any  vacancies  in  their  ranks  until  the  king  had 
favored  them  with  a conge  d’elire.  In  this  instance 
some  of  the  juniors  of  the  monks  or  canons  of  Christ 
Church,  Canterbury,  who  possessed  the  right  of  voting 
in  the  choice  of  their  archbishop,  had  proceeded  to  the 
election  without  such  a grant  from  the  royal  chair, 
and  chosen  Reginald,  their  sub-prior,  as  successor,  and 
installed  him  in  the  arehiepiscopal  throne  before  day- 
light. Having  enjoined  upon  him  the  strictest  se- 
crecy. they  sent  him  immediately  to  Rome  to  secure  the 
pontiff's  confirmation  of  their  act.  The  foolish  Reg- 
inald, however,  disclosed  the  secret,  and  it  came  to  the 
ears  of  the  king  and  the  suffragan  bishops  of  Canter- 
bun'.  lie  at  once  caused  the  canons  of  Christ  Church 
to  proceed  to  a new  election,  and  suggested  John  de 
Gray,  bishop  of  Norwich,  for  the  honorable  position, 
who  was  accordingly  installed,  likewise  against  the  wish 
of  the  suffragran  bishops.  Those  appealed  to  Rome, 
and  John  and  the  canons  of  Canterbury  were  forced  to 
do  likewise.  This  afforded  Innocent  III,  ever  on  the 
alert  to  make  Iiis  imperial  power  felt,  a valuable  oppor- 
tunity to  place  forever  at  his  own  disposal  one  of  the 
most  important  dignities  in  the  Christian  Church.  Ac- 
ceding to  the  doctrine  of  the  invalidity  of  Reginald’s 
election,  lie  maintained  that  the  new  vacancy  could 
only  have  been  declared  such  by  tbe  sovereign  pontiff, 
attd  that  therefore  the  choice  of  the  bishop  of  Norwich 


JOHN 


967 


JOHN 


also  was  illegal,  and  put  forth  as  the  candidate  for  the 
primacy  cardinal  Langton,  an  Englishman  hy  birth, but 
a devoted  follower  of  the  papal  prince.  Of  course  the 
monks,  however  reluctantly,  acted  on  the  suggestion  of 
the  supreme  head  of  the  Church  ; but  John  by  no  means 
gave  his  adhesion  to  an  act  the  important  results  of 
which  he  could  well  foresee,  lie  at  Mice  initiated  vio- 
lent measures  against  the  native  clergy,  determined  to 
retain  for  the  crown  the  rights  of  investiture  (q.  v.). 
Innocent  I IT,  however,  finding  that  he  could  not  con- 
quer the  stubborn  John  by  kind  measures,  at  first  mild- 
ly hinted  the  interdict,  and  in  1208  actually  subjected 
the  whole  kingdom  to  this  ecclesiastical  chastisement, 
and  the  year  following  added  to  it  the  excommunica- 
tion of  John  himself,  absolving  his  subjects  from  their 
allegiance  to  him,  and  permitting  them  even  to  depose 
him  from  the  throne.  But  John  paid  little  heed  to  this 
display  of  “ ecclesiastical  thunder,”  and  in  the  midst  of  it 
even  ventured  to  engage  in  war  with  Scotland,  and  with 
an  energy  quite  uncommon  to  him  suppressed  all  rebel- 
lious outbursts  in  his  own  domains.  Innocent,  finding 
his  “ecclesiastical  artillery”  to  be  inefficient  against 
England’s  king,  entered  into  league  with  Philip  Au- 
gustus, and  caused  the  latter  to  prepare  for  an  invasion 
of  England.  This  undertaking  soon  brought  John  to 
terms,  and  in  1213  (May  13)  he  at  last  consented  to  sub- 
mit to  all  the  demands  of  the  Holy  See,  of  which  the 
admission  of  the  pope’s  nominee,  Stephen  de  Langton, 
to  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury,  was  the  first.  Nay, 
he  even  yielded  much  more  than  could  have  consistent- 
ly been  asked  of  him  by  the  Roman  see,  and  perpetra- 
ted an  act  of  disgraceful  cowardice,  which  has  heaped 
everlasting  infamy  on  his  memory.  Two  days  after,  he 
made  over  to  the  pope  the  kingdoms  of  England  and 
Ireland,  to  be  held  by  him  and  by  the  Roman  Church 
in  fee,  and  took  to  his  holiness  the  ordinary  oath  taken 
by  vassals  to  their  lords  (see  Reichel,  The  Roman  See  in 
the  Middle  Ayes,  p.  251  sq.).  It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at 
that  the  Roman  see  now  readily  conceded  to  the  de- 
mand of  John  that  hereafter  there  should  be  an  oblivion 
of  the  past  on  both  sides,  and  that  the  bull  of  excommu- 
nication should  be  revoked  by  the  pope,  while,  in  return, 
John  was  obliged  to  pledge  that  of  his  disaffected  Eng- 
lish subjects  those  who  were  in  confinement  should  be 
liberated,  and  those  who  had  tied  or  been  banished  be- 
yond seas  should  be  permitted  to  return  home.  Philip, 
whose  ambition  was  not  a little  mortified  by  this  sudden 
agreement  of  pope  and  king,  persisted  in  his  invasion 
scheme,  though  no  longer  approved  by  Rome;  but  the 
French  fleet  was  totally  defeated  in  the  harbor  of  Dam- 
me, 300  of  their  vessels  were  captured  and  above  100 
destroyed.  Subsequent  events,  however,  proved  more 
favorable  to  France,  and  aggravated  the  discontent  at 
home  against  John.  At  length  the  English  barons,  tired 
of  their  tyrannical  ruler,  after  vainly  petitioning  for  more 
liberal  concessions,  assembled  at  Stamford  to  wage  war 
themselves  against  him,  and  marched  directly  on  London, 
where  they  were  hailed  with  great  joy  by  the  citizens. 
The  king,  fearing  for  his  throne,  now  gladly  consented 
to  a conference.  They  met  the  king  at  Runnymead, 
aud,  as  a result  of  this  meeting,  they  obtained,  on  June 
15th,  1215,  the  Great  Charter  (Magna  Charta),  the  basis 
of  the  English  Constitution.  The  pope,  who  had  con- 
stantly opposed  the  English  in  their  revolutionary  move- 
ments, soon  after  annulled  the  charter,  and  the  war 
broke  out  again.  The  barons  now  called  over  the  dau- 
phin of  France  to  be  their  leader,  and  Louis  landed  at 
Sandwich  on  May  30th,  1216.  In  attempting  to  cross 
the  Wash,  John  lost  his  regalia  and  treasures,  was  taken 
ill,  and  died  at  Newark  Castle  on  Oct.  19th,  1216,  in  the 
49th  year  of  his  age.  “All  English  historians  paint  the 
character  of  John  in  the  darkest  colors;  and  the  history 
of  his  reign  seems  to  prove  that  to  his  full  share  of  the 
ferocity  of  his  line  he  conjoined  an  unsteadiness  and 
volatility,  a susceptibility  of  being  suddenly  depressed 
by  evil  fortune,  and  elated  beyond  the  bounds  of  moder- 
ation and  prudence  by  its  opposite,  which  gave  a little- 


ness to  his  character  not  helonging  to  that  of  any  of  hi* 
royal  ancestors.  lie  is  charged,  in  addition,  with  a sav- 
age cruelty  of  disposition,  and  with  the  most  unbounded 
licentiousness,  while,  on  the  other  hand,  so  many  vices 
are  not  allowed  to  have  been  relieved  by  a single  good 
quality”  (Engl.  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v.).  Of  course  this  may 
all  be  due  to  the  fact  that  John  has  had  no  historian, 
that  his  cause  expired  with  himself,  and  that  every 
writer  of  his  story  has  told  it  in  the  spirit  of  the  oppo- 
site and  victorious  party;  and,  further,  that  the  intense 
disgust  always  felt  by  every  class  of  his  countrymen  at 
his  base  surrender  of  his  kingdom  in  vassalage  to  the 
pope  may  have  led  them  to  regard  with  less  distrust  all 
adverse  reports  respecting  his  general  character.  See 
Milman,  Lat.  Christ,  v,  ch.  v;  II allain, Middle  A ges ; Lin- 
gard,  Hist,  of  England,  ii,  ch.  ii ; Hume,  Hist,  of  Engl,  i, 
ch.  xi;  Gieselcr,  Ch.  llist.  iii,  § 54;  Neamler,  Cft.  Hist. 
vii,  235  sq. ; Inett,  Hist.  Engl.  Ch.  ii,  ch.  xix  sq. ; Riddle; 
Papacy,  ii,  212  sq.  (J.  I I.  W.) 

John,  Monophysite  (missionary)  bishop  of  Ephe- 
sus, generally  called  Episcopus  A sice,  as  Ephesus  is  the 
most  important  see  of  Asia  Minor  (see  Assemani,  Bill. 
Orient,  t.  ii,  Diss.  de  Monophysit.  § ix,  s.  v.  Asia),  was  a 
native  of  Amid  (?),  Syria,  and  lived  in  the  6tli  century 
(about  591).  He  resided  chiefly  in  Constantinople,  and 
was  highly  esteemed  at  court,  especially  during  the  reign 
of  Justinian.  The  latter  appointed  him  to  inquire  into 
the  state  of  the  heathen,  of  whom  there  was  yet  a large 
number  in  the  empire,  even  in  Constantinople,  and  to 
secure  their  conversion.  Quite  successful  in  his  efforts 
at  home,  the  emperor  authorized  John  to  take  a mission- 
ary tour  through  the  whole  empire,  and  we  are  told  that 
this  time  he  converted  70,000  people,  and  founded  96 
churches  (comp.  Gibbon,  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman 
Empire,  ch.  xlvii).  He  seems  not  to  have  had  any  di- 
rect spiritual  jurisdiction  over  the  metropolis  of  Asia 
Minor,  but  to  have  been  honored  with  the  title  simply 
on  account  of  his  great  success  as  a missionary,  and  we 
are  inclined  to  believe  that  in  reality  he  was  simply  a 
“ missionary  bishop,”  for  he  is  often  styled  “ he  who  is 
eet  over  the  heathen”  (Syr.  and  also  “the 

destroyer  of  idols”  (Syr.  X"cr*S  -).  How  long 
John  remained  a favorite  with  Justinian  we  do  not 
know,  but  have  reason  to  suppose  that  his  fate  depend- 
ed upon  the  success  of  his  Monophysite  brethren.  In 
the  reign  of  Justin  II  he  shared  largely  in  the  sufferings 
which  befell  the  Monophysites  at  the  instigation  of  John 
of  Sirimis.  The  period,  circumstances,  and  place  of  his 
death  are  uncertain.  lie  is  probably  the  John  Rhetor 
mentioned  by  Evagrius  and  Thcodorus  Lector,  and 
whom  the  former  calls  (lib.  v,  c.  24)  his  compatriot  and 
his  relative.  Assemani  (Bib!.  Orient,  ii,  84)  opposes  this 
identity,  but  without  good  reasons.  John  wrote  a his- 
torical work,  in  three  parts,  in  Syriac,  which  is  of  great 
importance  for  the  Church  history  of  the  East.  The 
first  part  appears  to  be  totally  lost,  and  of  the  second 
only  a few  fragments,  quoted  by  Assemani,  are  preserved 
to  us.  It  is  indeed  the  third  part  alone  that  has  come 
down  to  us,  and  that  only  in  a somewhat  mutilated 
form.  Dionysius  of  Telmahar,  in  his  chronicle  (from 
Theodosius  the  younger  to  Justin  II),  used  this  part 
freely ; and  Assemani  obtained  his  passages  ( Biblioth . 
Orient,  i,  359-363,  409,  4 1 1 -4 1 4 ; i i,  48  sq.,  5 1 , 52,  87-90, 
312,  328,  329)  from  this  source  and  from  Bar-Hebrieus 
( Chron . Syr.  ed.  Bruns  and  Kirsch,  p.  2, 83,  S4).  These 
were  the  only  sources  through  which  the  work  of  John 
was  known  to  us  until  the  third  part  of  it  (somewhat  in- 
complete) was  discovered  by  William  Cureton  among 
the  Syrian  MSS,  brought  to  England  from  the  Syrian 
monasteries  of  Egypt  by  Dr.  Tattam  and  A.  Pacho,  in 
1843, 1847,  and  1850.  This  third  part  was  published  un- 
der the  title  The  Third  Part  of  the  Ecclesiastical  History 
of  John,  Bishop  of  Ephesus.  Now  frst  edited  by  William 
Cureton  (Oxf.  1855, 4to,  pp.  420).  The  first  two  parts, 
forming  twelve  books,  contained,  as  the  author  himself 
says  (p.  2),  the  history  of  the  Church  from  the  begin- 


JOHN 


JOHN  968 


ning  of  the  Roman  Empire  to  the  sixth  year  of  the  I 
reign  of  Justinus  II,  nephew  of  Justinian,  and  conse-  , 
quentlv  to  the  year  571.  The  third  part  forms  six 
chapters,  of  which  we  have  only  the  second  and  filth 
i„  fuii;  the  others  arc  all  more  or  less  incomplete  (see  I 
1 lenistci  n,  Zeitsch.  der  1).  Merge  id.  Gesellschaft,  viii,397).  j 
It  continues  the  history  to  the  third  year  after  the  death 
of  Justinus  II  (581)  (see  bk.  vi,  ch.  xxv,  p.  402),  and 
mentions  even  later  dates  down  to  583.  We  find  in  it 
accounts  of  many  facts  of  ecclesiastical  history  not  to  | 
be  discovered  in  other  sources.  It  is  the  more  impor- 
tant from  the  fact  that  the  author,  although  a partisan 
of  the  Monophysite  doctrine,  and  occasionally  somewhat 
over-credulous,  was  a contemporary,  and  often  an  eye- 
witness of  the  facts  he  relates.  Cureton  promised  an 
English  translation  of  the  work,  but  to  our  knowledge 
it  has  not  yet  appeared.  The  German  scholar  Sclion- 
lelder  (Die  Kirchengesehichte  des  Johannes  von  Ephesus. 
.1  us  dem  Syrischen  iibersetzt.  M it  einerA  bhandlung  ii.  il. 
Tritheiten  [Munch.  18152, 8vo])  has,  however,  furnished 
a German  translation,  of  which  those  who  do  not  read 
the  Oriental  languages  can  avail  themselves  in  their 
studies  of  the  Eastern  Church.  In  1856  a young  Dutch 
scholar,  Dr.  Land,  published  a treatise  on  John,  Bishop 
of  Ephesus,  the  first  Syriac  Church  historian  (for  the 
full  title,  see  below),  in  which  he  discussed  the  general 
relations  of  Syriac  literature,  and  the  productions  of  the 
Syriac  Church  historians  in  particular,  the  person  and 
history  of  bishop  John,  his  style  and  treatment  of  Church 
history,  and  the  contents  of  his  work.  Since  then,  Dr. 
Land  has  continued  his  studies  of  the  Syriac  writers, 
and  in  vol.  ii  of  his  Anecdota  Sgriaea  (also  under  the 
special  title  Jounnis,  Episcopi  MonophysiUv  Scripta  Ilis- 
torica  [Levd.  18tJ8,8vu]),  has  published  all  the  inedited 
works  of  John  of  Ephesus.  See  I Icrzog,  Iteal-Encyklop. 
vi,  747 ; lvitto,  Journ.  Sac.  Lit.  xvi,  207  sq.  (J.  II.  W.) 

John  ok  Ekciiaita  (Euchaitce  or  Euchania)  (a  city 
afterwards  called  Theodoropolis)  was  archbishop  of  Eu- 
chaita  (MtjrpoTroXiriie  Eeyotrwn),  and  lived  in  the  time 
of  the  emperor  Constantine  and  Monomaehus  (A.D. 
1042-1054),  but  nothing  further  is  known  of  him.  He 
was  surnamed  Jfuuropus  (Mavpovo&g),i.  e.“  IJlackfoot.” 
lie  wrote  a number  of  iambic  poems,  sermons,  and  let- 
ters. A volume  of  his  poems  was  published  by  Matthew 
Host  (Eton,  1610,  4to).  They  were  probably  written 
on  occasion  of  the  Church  festivals,  as  they  are  com- 
memorative of  the  incidents  of  the  life  of  Christ  or  of 
the  saints.  An  OJjicinm,  or  ritual  service,  composed  by 
him,  and  containing  three  canones  or  hymns,  is  given  by 
Nicolaus  Kayams  i.;  nis  dissertation  be  Acohmtliia  Of- 
ficii Canonici,  prefixed  to  the  Acta  Sanctorum,  Junii, 
vol.  ii.  John  wrote,  also,  1 it  a S.  iJorothei  Junioris, 
given  in  the  . 1 eta  Sanctorum,  J unii,  i,  605,  etc.  Various 
sermons  lor  the  Church  festivals,  and  other  works  of  his, 
are  extant  in  MS.  See  Fabricius,  Biblioth.  Orient,  viii, 
30!i,  (527,  etc.;  x,  221,  226;  xi,  79;  Cave,  Hist.  Liter,  ii, 
139  ; Gudin,  Do  Scriptoribns  et  Srriptis  Eccles.  ii,  606; 
Smith,  Did.  of  Greek  and  Roman  Bing.  ii.  595. 

John  ok  Fai.kesueug,  surnamed  Jacobita  de  Sax- 
onia,  or  Doctor  de  J’ratensis,  a German  Dominican,  is 
celebrated  for  the  zeal  with  which  he  defended  pope 
Gregory  XII  in  the  Council  of  Constance.  lie  also  en- 
deavored to  defend  the  regieidal  opinions  of  John  Petit, 
but  be  failed  in  both  instances,  lie  next,  at  the  re- 
quest of  the  Knights  of  the  ( ,’ross,  wrote  a libel  against 
Wladislas  JagcUou,  king  of  Poland,  for  which  lie  was  de- 
clared a heretic,  and  condemned  to  imprisonment  for  life 
at  Rome.  Pope  Martin  V,  however,  liberated  him  a few 
years  after,  ami  John,  encouraged,  now  demanded  of 
Paul  of  Russdorf,  grand  master  of  the  Knights  of  the 
( ross,  the  price  of  the  libel  he  had  written.  The  latter 
offering  him  but  a small  amount,  John  of  Falkenberg 
insulted  him,  whereupon  he  was  again  imprisoned,  and 
H«»d  «nmed  to  he  drowned,  lie  escaped,  however,  re- 
tir  d tu  the  convent  of  Kiimpen,  and  wrote  against  the 
order.  IIC  was  present  at  the  Council  of  Basle,  in  1431, 


and  died  shortly  after.  See  Eeliard,  Script.  Ord.  Freed. ; 
Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvi,  563. 

John  the  Faster  (Johannes  Jejunator  or  Nes- 
teutes),  of  humble  extraction,  became  patriarch  of 
Constantinople  in  582.  lie  was  distinguished  lbr  his 
piety,  benevolence,  strong  asceticism,  and  fasting.  He 
was' the  first  who  assumed  the  title  of  “ oecumenical  pa- 
triarch,” and  thereby  involved  himself  in  difficulties 
with  the  bishops  of  Rome,  Pelagius  II  and  Gregory  I, 
the  opening  of  a struggle  which  resulted  finally,  in  the 
11th  century  (1054),  in  a complete  rupture  of  the 
churches  of  Rome  and  Constantinople.  (See  the  article 
Gregory  I,  and  Ffoulkes,  Christendom's  Divisions,  voL 
i,  § 17.)  John  died  Sept.  2,  595.  The  Greek  Church 
counts  him  among  its  saints.  He  is  reputed  the  author 
of  ’AnoXovSia  mi  radix t*  rmv  iiopoXoyovpkvxnv  ; Aoyo q 
t rpot;  rbv  pkWovra  iiayoptixrcu  rbv  avrov  m’tvpan- 
kov  vwv,  which  belongs  to  the  earliest  penitential  works 
of  the  Greek  Church  (pub.  by  Morin  us,  Comm.  hist,  de 
administratione  sacramenti  pcenitentice,  Paris,  1651,  Yen. 
1792,  etc.).  See  Gudin,  De  Scr.  Eccles.  i,  1473  sq. ; Fa- 
bricius, Bibl.  Grceca,  x,  164  sq. ; Le  Quien,  Oriens  Chris- 
tian. i,  216  sq. ; Schrockh,  Kirchengesch.  xvii,  56  sq. ; 
Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  748 ; Aschbacli,  Kirchen-Lex. 
iii,  556. 

John  (called  also  Jeannelin),  abbot  op  Fecamp, 
Franee,  was  born  in  the  neighborhood  of  Ravenna.  His 
lamily  name  Labbe  supposes  to  have  been  Dalge,  or 
D'.  I Ige.  He  eame  to  France  with  William,  abbot  of  St. 
Benignc  of  Dijon,  and  studied  under  that  learned  man. 
He  practiced  medicine  with  success;  hut  William  going 
to  Fecamp  to  reform  the  abbey,  and  install  there  a col- 
ony of  Benedictines,  John  accompanied  him,  was  made 
prior,  and  finally  succeeded  William  as  abbot.  He  re- 
formed several  convents,  and  by  his  firm  adherence  to 
discipline  embroiled  himself  with  many  prelates,  sus- 
tained, however,  in  every  instance  by  the  pope.  In 
1054  he  visited  England,  where  he  was  welcomed  by 
king  Edward,  but,  having  subsequently  undertaken  a 
journey  to  the  Holy  Land,  he  was  made  prisoner  by  the 
Mohammedans,  and  is  said  to  have  only  returned  to 
France  in  1076.  He  died  Feb.  2,  1079.  He  wrote  a 
book  of  prayers,  the  preface  of  which  is  to  be  foiuul  in 
Mabillon,  Analecta,  i,  133,  and  three  chapters  in  the 
Meditationes  S.  .4  ugustini.  He  is  also  considered  as  the 
author  of  a treatise,  De  Birina  Contemplatione,  publ.  in 
1539,  under  the  title  of  Confessio  Theologica,  and  attrib- 
uted to  John  Cassien,ete.  See  Gallia  Christ. xi, col. 206 ; 
1 list.  Lift,  de  la  France,  viii,  48;  Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biogr. 
Generate,  xxvi,  531. 

John  Frederick,  elector  of  Saxony.  See  Refor- 
mation; Saxony. 

J ohn  Gallexsis.  See  Canon  Law,  vol.  ii,  p.  88  (2). 

John  of  Gischala,  son  of  Levi,  named  after  his 
native  place  [see  Gischala],  was  one  of  the  most  cele- 
brated leaders  of  the  unfortunate  Jews  of  Galilee  in  their 
final  struggle  with. the  Romans,  A.I>.  66-67.  Of  his 
personal  history  we  know  scarcely  anything.  The  only 
writer  to  whom  we  can  go  for  information— Josephus — 
is  prejudiced,  because  John  of  Gischala  proved  the  most 
formidable  rival  of  the  renowned  Jewish  historian,  and 
he  is  on  that  account  depicted  by  Josephus  in  a very 
disparaging  manner.  His  deeds,  however,  indicate  to 
every  fair-miuded  person  that  he  belonged  to  that  class 
of  men  who,  for  the  defense  of  their  country,  readily  ig- 
nore all  other  duties.  We  are  furthermore  encouraged 
to  give  credence  to  the  noble  picture  which  Griitz 
(Gesch.  der  Juden,  iii,  396)  has  drawn  of  John,  when  we 
remember  that  the  virtuous  and  learned  Simon  ben-Ga- 
maliel  was  a devoted  and  life-long  friend  of  our  hero. 
(By  this  it  must,  however,  by  no  means  be  inferred  that 
we  are  ready  to  accept  Griitz’s  views  on  the  character 
of  Josephus,  for  which  we  refer  our  readers  to  the  art.  Jo- 
SKPiiKs.)  Though  hv  nature  Josephus’s  superior,  more 
particularly  in  the  art  of  warfare,  he  readily  submitted 


JOHN 


969 


JOHN 


himself  to  the  commands  of  the  man  whom  the  Sanhe- 
drim had  seen  fit  to  invest  with  superior  authority.  Not 
so  patriotic  was  the  conduct  of  Josephus,  who,  in  his 
jealousy,  hesitated  not  to  put  every  obstacle  in  the  way 
of  John,  so  as  to  prevent  the  success  of  his  noble  and 
patriotic  efforts.  This  impolitic  conduct  of  Josephus 
towards  all  who  seemed  to  present  any  likelihood  of  be- 
coming rivals  in  office  continued  until  the  people’s  at- 
tention was  directed  to  it,  and  their  anger  against  him 
was  so  great  that  his  very  life  was  in  danger.  Instead, 
however,  of  profiting  by  this  sad  experience,  Josephus, 
in  his  vanity  and  blindness,  continued,  so  soon  as  he  felt 
that  the  danger  had  passed,  his  animosity  towards  his 
colaborers,  especially  towards  John  of  Gischala,  whom 
he  hesitated  not  to  accuse  even  of  having  headed  the 
attacks  upon  his  life  (Josephus,  Life,  18, 19),  a reproach 
which  was  not  in  the  least  deserved  by  John,  who,  how- 
ever great  his  disappointment  in  Josephus,  never  sought 
relief  by  violent  measures.  It  is  true  that,  when  he 
found  the  people’s  confidence  in  Josephus  restored,  he 
sent  messengers  to  Simon  ben-Gamaliel  and  to  the  San- 
hedrim to  remove  the  man  in  whom  public  confidence 
was  so  misplaced.  Ordered  to  the  defence  of  his  native 


John  tiie  Grammarian.  See  John -the  Labori- 
ous. 

John  Hyrcanus.  See  Hyrcanus. 

John  the  Italian  {Johannes  Itulus ) (1).  a monk 
of  the  10th  century.  He  was  at  first  canon  at  Rome, 
but  his  acquaintance  with  Odon,  abbot  of  Clugnv,  led 
him  to  France,  and  he  entered  a convent  there.  Some 
say  that  he  afterwards  returned  to  Italy,  and  became 
prior  of  a Roman  convent,  while  others  say  that  he  be- 
came abbot  of  some  French  Cistercian  convent,  and  that 
he  died  in  France  after  945.  Our  information  regard- 
ing his  personal  history  is  derived  only  from  his  biogra- 
phy in  the  Life  of  St.  Odon  (in  Mabillon,  Acta  Sand,  vii, 
152).  lie  published  extracts  of  St.  Gregory’s  Moralia. 
See  Hist.  Lift,  de  la  France , vi,  265 ; Ceillier,  Hist,  des 
A uteurs  Sacres,  xii,  825. 

John  the  Italian  ( Itulus , TraAog)  (2),  a Greek 
philosopher  and  heretic  who  flourished  in  the  time  of 
Alexius  I Comnenus  (1081-1118),  escaped  to  Italy  after 
the  revolt  of  Maniaces  against  Constantine,  and  there 
prosecuted  his  preparatory  studies.  He  finally  returned 
again  to  Constantinople,  and  became  a disciple  of  Mi- 
chael I’sellus  the  younger.  His  learning  and  ability 


impossible  to  hold  the  city  with  his  handful  of  country-  t‘0'a  retum  to  tbe  Byzantine  empire,  selected  John  Ita- 
men,  more  accustomed  to  the  ploughshare  than  to  the  | lus  for  ^ purpose,  and  dispatched  him  to  Dyrrachium. 
sword,  he  made  his  escape  by  a game  of  strategy  which  , Hp  howcver>  proved  unfaithful  to  the  trust,  and,  his 
his  enemy  could  never  forgive  him.  Having  obtained  intJi£,nes  bayjng  become  public,  was  obliged  to  flee  to 
an  armistice  from  the  Romans  on  pretence  that  the  day  | Kome  tQ  ayoitl  persecution.  He  was  subsequently  al- 
was  their  Sabbath,  he  improved  the  opportunity  to  lowod  to  return  to  Constantinople,  ancl  there  entered  the 
make  his  escape  with  his  forces  to  Jerusalem.  The  sa-  j mona8torv  0f  pcga.  When  Psellus  was  banished  in 
credcity  was  at  this  time  unfortunately  divided  of  itself,  107- "Jojui  was  "made  first  professor  of  philosophy 
anarchy  reigned  within  the  walls,  and  it  was  with  great  ’ r(;w  ^tXo mthwv),  and  filled  this  place  with 
difficulty  that  John  succeeded  in  rallying  the  people  to  t snecc?s>  Yet  he  was  better  acquainted  with  logic 
their  defence  against  a common  enemy.  He  actually  b • 

aroused  them  to  sally  forth  against  the  Roman  invaders, 
and  succeeded  in  destroying  the  first  works  erected  by 
them  to  besiege  the  city.  Not  so  happy  were  they  in 


and  Aristotle’s  philosophy  than  with  the  other  branches 
of  science,  and  was  but  little  versed  in  grammar  and 
rhetorie.  He  was  very  passionate  and  hasty  in  argu- 
ment, and  sometimes  even  resorted  to  bodily  violence, 


their  future  undertakings.  Defeat  after  defeat  finally  ]mt  j’e  fortunately,  prompt  in  acknowledging  his 
obliged  John  to  seek  refuge  in  the  tower  of  Antonia.  errQrs>  He’expounded  to  his  pupils  Proclus,  Plato,  Jam- 
Soon  after  followed  the  fall  of  Jerusalem  (A.D.  70),  and  b]ichljs  porphyrins,  and  Aristotle,  but  often  in  a manner 
John  now  sought  refuge  in  a neighboring  cave,  deter-  i(e  inconsistent  with  the  position  of  Christian  ortho- 


mined  not  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  Titus.  But  hunger 
soon  proved  even  a more  formidable  foe  than  the  Ro- 
mans, and  John  gladly  went  forth  from  his  hiding-place 


quite  inconsistent  with  the  position  c 
doxy.  Alexius,  soon  after  ascending  the  throne,  caused 
I talus’s  doctrines  to  he  examined,  and  summoned  him 
before  an  ecclesiastical  court.  Notwithstanding  the 


to  surrender  himself  to  them,  who,  in  their  pride  and  protection  0f  the  patriarch  Eustratius,  John  Italus  wa 
the  savage  state  of  that  age,  hesitated  not  to  increase  | J,bli„ed  publicly  to  recant  and  anathematize  eleven  lie- 


he 


the  mental  agonies  of  the  poor  Jew  by  marching  him,  ret£al  opjni0ns  advanced  in  his  lectures.  Among  othc: 
with  700  other  fellow-countrymen,  at  the  head  of  the  thin<TS  be  wag  accused  of  “ridiculing  image-worship.’ 
victorious  legions  to  the  Eternal  City,  to  enhance  the  ConBnning,  however,  to  teach  the  same  doctrines,  hi 
magnificence  of  his  public  triumph.  The  grand  spec-  wag  anati,ematized  by  the  Church,  and,  fearing  pcrsecu- 
tacle  over,  John  was  imprisoned  at  Rome,  and  died  don  be  forsook  tlie  rostnim.  It  is  said  that  in  his  later 
in  a dungeon  of  broken  heart.  Not  so  lucky,  even,  was  yca^  he  pilb]idy  renounced  his  errors.  II  is  principal 
his  brother  in  arms,  Simon  bar-Giora  (q.  v.),  who  was  ^Qrkg  (a]1  in  yj^S.)  are,  "EkVociq  tk  ci  expo  pa  'OlTi'ipa- 
dragged  through  the  streets  of  Rome  by  a rope,  and  ra . tk  r«  totukii  ; mpi  haXtK-iKijQ ; Mt£o- 


finallv  executed,  in  accordance  with  Roman  custom, 
which  demanded  a human  sacrifice  in  honor  of  a victory' 
gained  over  their  enemies.  See  Josephus,  War,  iv,  2 
sq. ; Griitz,  Geschichte  d.Juelen , vol.  iii,  ch.  xiv  and  xv; 
Raphall,  Post  Bibl.IIist.of  the  Jews,  ii,41G  sq.  (J.II.W.) 

John  Gocii.  See  Gocii. 

John  of  Gorz,  a French  monk  of  some  note  who 
flourished  in  the  10th  century,  was  born  at  Yendiere, 
near  Pont-a-Mousson,  and  studied  theology  under  Ber- 
ner, deacon  of  Toul.  After  joining  various  convents 
— among  the  last  that  of  the  Recluses — and  not  finding 
that  earnest  piety' and  strict  ascetie  life  which  he  sought 
to  impose  upon  himself,  he  finally  gathered  a few  true 
friends  of  like  mind  in  the  convent  of  Gorz,  presented 
to  them  by  bishop  Adalbert,  of  Mayence.  In  the  latter 
part  of  his  life,  Otho  the  Great  sent  him  as  ambassador 
to  Abderrahman  II,  in  Cordova.  His  biography  was 
written  by  a friend  and  contemporary,  St.  Arnulph  (died 
984),  and  is  given  by  Pertz,  Monum.  iv,  335. 


Es-^omc  t „ . 

<?oc  fnjTopucpg  tKCoStiaa  Kara  avro^tv ; some  dis- 
courses, etc.  See  Anna  Comnenus,  A lexius,  v,  8,  9 ; Fa- 
bricius,  Bibl.  Grceca , iii,  213-217;  vi,  131  ; xi,  646-652  ; 
Cave,  Hist.  Lift,  ii,  154;  Gudin,  Comment,  de  ScriptonLiis 
et  Scriptis  Kccles.  ii,  col.  760;  Lambcce,  Comment ar.  de 
Biblioth.  Ciesar.  iii,  col.  411,  edit.  Kollar ; Le  Beau,  Hist, 
du  Bas-Empire,  lxxxi,49 : Hase,  Notices  d.  M unuscripts, 
vol.  ix. — Hoefcr,  Xouv.  Bioy.  Gen.  xxvi,  057. 

John  Jejunatou.  See  John  the  Faster. 

John  of  Jerusalem  (1),  originally  a monk,  was 
bishop  of  Jerusalem  (A. I).  386)  when  not  much  more 
than  thirty  y ears  of  age  (Jerome,  Epist.  Lxxxii,  8). 
Some  speak  of  him  as  patriarch,  but  Jerusalem  was  not 
elevated  to  the  dignity  of  a patriarchate  until  the  fol- 
lowing century.  John  was  a man  of  insignificant  per- 
sonal appearance  (Jerome,  Lib.  contra  Joan.  e.  10),  but 
he  was  generally'  celebrated  for  eloquence,  talent,  and 
learning.  lie  was  acquainted,  at  least  in  some  degree, 
with  the  Hebrew  and  Syriac  languages,  but  it  is  doubt- 


JOIIX 


970 


JOHX 


ful  if  he  was  acquainted  with  Latin.  He  is  said  to  have  I 
been  at  one  period  an  Arian,  or  to  have  sided  with  the  | 
Arians  when  they  were  in  the  ascendant  under  the  em-  ; 
peror  Valens  (.Jerome,  Lib.  contra  Joan . c.  4,  8).  For 
eight  years  after  his  appointment  to  the  bishopric  he 
was  on  friendly  terms  with  St.  Jerome,  who  was  then 
living  a monastic  life  in  Bethlehem  or  its  neighborhood; 
but  towards  the  close  of  that  period  strife  was  stirred 
up  by  Kpiphanius  of  Constantia  (or  Salamis),  in  Cy- 
prus, who  came  to  Palestine  to  ascertain  the  truth  of  a 
report  which  had  reached  him,  that  the  obnoxious  sen- 
timents of  Origen  were  gaining  ground  under  the  pat- 
ronage of  John.  Epiphanius’s  violence  against  all  that 
had  even  the  appearance  of  Origenism  led  him  into  a con- 
troversy with  John  also.  See  Eimpiiaxius.  Whether 
John  really  cherished  opinions  at  variance  with  the  or- 
thodoxy of  that  tune,  or  only  exercised  towards  those 
who  held  them  a forbearance  which  was  looked  upon 
with  suspicion,  we  do  not  know;  but  he  became  again 
involved  in  squabbles  with  the  supporters  of  orthodox 
views,  lie  was  charged  by  them  with  favoring  Pela- 
gias, who  was  then  in  Palestine,  and  who  was  accused 
of  heresy  in  the  councils  of  Jerusalem  and  Diospolis  (A. 
1).  115),  but  was  in  the  latter  council  acquitted  of  the 
charge,  and  restored  to  the  communion  of  the  Church. 
See  Pelagii’s.  In  the  controversies  waged  against 
Chrysostom,  John  of  Jerusalem  always  sided  decidedly 
with  Chrysostom.  See  Chrysostom.  John  wrote,  ac- 
cording to  Gennadius  (Ik  Yiris  IUnstr.  c.  30),  Adrer- 
8iis  Obtrc-ctatores  sui  Stwlii  Liber , in  which  he  showed 
that  he  rather  admired  the  ability  than  followed  the 
opinions  of  Origen.  Fabrieius  and  Ceillier  think,  and 
with  apparent  reason,  that  this  work,  which  is  lost,  was 
the  apologetic  letter  addressed  by  John  to  Theophilus, 
patriarch  of  Alexandria,  which  resulted  in  a reconcilia- 
tion between  John  and  Jerome.  No  other  work  of 
John  is  noticed  by  the  ancients;  but  in  the  17th  centu- 
ry two  huge  volumes  appeared,  entitled  Jounnis  Xepo- 
Sylvani,  Iliemsolym.  Fplseopi  xlir , Opera  omnia 
(par  hactenus  incoynita,  reperiri  pntuerunt:  in  unum  col- 
lect a,  tiuoque  .1  net  or  i et  Auctoritnti  tribus  Yindiciarum 
fibrin  assert  a per  .4.  It.  P.  Pet  rum  Wnstelium  (Brussels, 
1<)  id.  fol.).  The  Vindicite  occupied  the  second  volume. 
The  works  profess  to  be  translated  from  the  Greek,  and 
arc  as  follows:  (1)  Liber  de  Institutione  primorum  Mo- 
nachorum , in  Leye  Veter  i exortorum  et  in  Xoca  per  sere- 
rant  imn,  ad  Caprasium  Mona  chum.  Interprete  Aym^r- 
ico  I'alriarchn  .1  ntiochenn.  This  work  is  mentioned  by 
Trithemius  (aptid  Fabrieius,  Bibl.  Or.  x,  520)  as  “ 1 o/u- 
men  insiynede  principle  et  prof ectu  ordinis  Carmelitiei 
and  is  ascribed  by  him  to  a later  John,  patriarch  of  Je- 
rusalem (in  the  8th  century).  It.  is  contained  in  several 
editions  ol  the  Bibliotheca  Put  rum , in  which  'work,  in- 
deed, it.  seems  to  have  been  first  published  (vol.  ix,  Par. 
158b,  fob),  and  in  the  works  of  Thomas  a Jesu,  the  Car- 
melite (i.  410,  etc.,  Cologne,  1084,  (olio).  It  is  gener- 
ally admitted  to  he  the  production  of  a Latin  writer, 
and  of  much  later  date  than  our  John:— (2)  In  struta- 
yemata  Head  Jnbi  lAbri  iii,  a commentary  on  the  first, 
three  chapters  of  the  book  of  Job,  often  printed  in  Latin 
among  the.  works  of  ( trigen,  but  supposed  to  belong  nei- 
ther to  him  nor  to  John: — -(3)  In  ,S.  Matthunun , an  im- 
perfect commentary  on  the.  Gospel  of  Matthew,  usually 
printed,  under  the  title  of  Opus  imperfect um  in  Muttlur- 
um,  among  the  works  of  Chrysostom,  in  the  Latin  or 
Gneeo- Latin  editions  of  that  father,  but  supposed  to  be 
the  work  of  some  Arian  or  Anonm-an  about  the  end  of 
the  6th  or  some  part  of  the  7th  century:— (4)  Fraymenta 
ex  Coinmentarin  ail  prima  Capita  xi  S.  Marci,  cited  by 
Thomas  Aquinas  (Catena  A urea  ad  Frany.)  as  a work 
of  Chrysostom  ( 5)  Fraymentu  ex  Commentario  in  Lu- 
can,, extant  under  the  name  of  Chrysostom,  partly  in 
editions  of  his  works,  partly  in  the  Latin  version  of  a 
Greek  Catena  in  Lncum  published  by  Corderius  ( Vntw 
1028,  folio),  and  partly  in  the  Catena  A urea  of  Thomas 
Aquinas : (0)  Ihmilim  Ixiii,  almost  all  of  them  among 

those  published  in  the  works  of  Chrysostom.  There  £ 


no  good  reason  for  ascribing  any  of  these  works  to  John ; 
nor  are  they,  in  fact,  ascribed  to  him  except  by  the  Car- 
melites. See  Fabrieius,  Bibl.  Or.  ix,  299;  x,  525,  etc.; 
Cave,  1 list.  Lift,  i,  281,  etc.;  Dupin,  A "our.  Biblioth'eque 
des  Auteui's  Fcclesiastiques , iii,  87,  ed.  Par.  1690 ; Smith, 
Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography,  ii,  596. 

John  of  Jerusalem  (2).  A synodical  letter  of 
John,  who  was  a patriarch  of  Jerusalem  early  in  the  6th 
century,  and  his  suffragan  bishops  assembled  in  a coun- 
cil at  Jerusalem  A.D.  517  or  518,  to  John  of  Constanti- 
nople [John  of  Cappadocia],  is  given  in  the  Concilia 
(vol  v,  cob  187,  etc.,  ed.  Labbe ; viii,  1067,  ed.  Mansi). 

John  of  Jerusalem  (3)  [or  of  Damascus,  2]. 
Three  extant  pieces  relating  to  the  Iconoclastic  contro- 
versy bear  the  name  of  John  of  Jerusalem,  but  it  is 
doubtful  how  far  they  may  be  ascribed  to  the  same  au- 
thor, hence  we  add  them  here  simply  under  a separate 
heading.  They  are,  1.  ’1  umvvov  tv\a(3tGTaTov  tov 
'If poGoXvpiTov  povaxov  An)yrjaig,  or  Joannis  Ilieroso- 
lymitani  reverendissimi  Monaehi  Karr  ado,  a very  brief 
account  of  the  origin  of  the  Iconoclastic  movement,  pub- 
lished by  Combefis  among  the  Scriptores  post  Theopha- 
nem  (Par.  1685,  fob),  and  reprinted  at  Venice,  A.D.  1729, 
as  part  of  the  series  of  Byzantine  historians;  it  is  also 
included  in  the  Bonn  edition  of  that  series.  It  is  also 
printed  in  the  Bibliotheca  Pat  rum  of  Gallandius,  xiii, 
270  : — 2.  AtaAoyof  GTijXirtvriKbq  ytvoptvoq  rrapd  ttig- 
tujv  Kai  opS oioZuiv  Kai  ttoSov  Kai  %ij\ov  exovruiv 
7rpog  tXtyxov  rutv  ivavriiov  Tijg  7rioTtioq  Kai  ryg  c?t- 
daoKciXiaq  tuiv  ctyiiov  Kai  6pSoS6£u)v  i)pu,v  Traripwv, 
or  Disceptatio  invectiva  quie  habita  est  a fidelibus  et  or- 
tliodoxis,  studiumque  ac  zelum  hubentibus  ad  confutandos 
adversarios  Jidei  atque  doctrinm  sanctorum  orthodoxo- 
rumque  patrum  nostrorum,  first  published  by  Combefis 
in  the  Scriptores  post  Theophanem  as  the  work  of  an 
anonymous  writer,  and  contained  in  the  Venetian,  but 
not  in  the  Bonn  edition  of  the  Byzantine  writers.  It  is 
also  reprinted  by  Gallandius  (nt  supra),  p.352,  and  as- 
cribed to  John  of  Damascus  or  John  of  Jerusalem,  some 
MSS.  giving  one  name,  and  others  giving  the  other. 
Gallandius  considers  that  he  is  ealled  Damascus  from 
bis  birthplace.  The  author  of  this  invective  is  to  be 
distinguished  from  the  greatly  celebrated  John  of  Da- 
mascus (q.  v.),  his  contemporary,  to  whom,  perhaps,  the 
transcribers  of  the  manuscripts,  in  prefixing  the  name 
Damascus,  intended  to  ascribe  the  work: — 3.  ’1  uidvvov 
povaxov  Kai  TrptofivTtpov  tov  AapaGKijvov  Aoyof 
dnroSeiKTiKog  Trtpi  tuiv  dyiuiv  Kai  otTCTuiv  hkovujv, 
irpbq  TravTug  Xpioriavovg  Kai  7rpbg  tov  (3aGiXta  Kop- 
orai'Tivov  tov  KafiaXlvov  Kai  i rpog  TrdvTag  aiptn- 
Kovg,  or  Joannis  Dwnaseeni  Monaehi  ac  Presbyter i Ora - 
do  demonstrative  de  sacris  ac  venerandis  imayinibus , ad 
Chrisdanos  omnes,  adrersusque  Imperatorem  Constanti- 
num  Cabalinnm.  The  title  is  given  in  other  MSS., 
’E7rirrro/\;)  ’hodi'vov  'UpoGoXi'pujv  dpxil iriGKOTrov,  k.  t. 
X. — Fpistola  Joannis,  or  llierosolymitani  .4  rchiepiscopi , 
etc.  The  work  was  first  printed  in  the  .4  uctarium  Xo- 
vum  of  Combefis  (Paris,  1648,  folio),  vol.  ii,  and  was  re- 
printed by  Gallandius  (ut  supra),  p.  358,  etc.  Fabrieius 
is  disposed  to  identify  the  authors  of  Nos.  1 and  3,  and 
treats  No.  2 as  the  work  of  another  and  unknown  writer; 
but  Gallandius,  from  internal  evidence,  endeavors  to 
show  that  Nos.  2 and  3 are  written  by  one  person,  but 
that  No.  1 is  by  a different  writer,  and  this  seems  to  be 
the  preferable  opinion.  lie  thinks  there  is  also  internal 
evidence  that  No.  3 was  written  in  the  year  770,  and 
was  subsequent  to  No.  2.  See  Fabrieius,  Bibl.  Gr.  vij, 
682;  Gallandius,  Bibl.  Patrum,  xiii,  Prolegomena,  eh. 
x,  p.  15 ; Smith,  Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Bioy.  ii,  596. 

John  of  Jerusalem  (4),  patriarch  of  Jerusalem, 
Mho  flourished  probably  in  the  latter  half  of  the  JOtli 
century,  uras  the  author  of  a life  of  Joannes  Damaseenus, 
lho£  too  6 Gtov  narpbg  ijpiuv  ’luiavvov  tov  Aupao- 
Ki]voi>  Gvyypatytiq  rrapd  'Uodi’vov  -l Tarptdpxov  'lepooo- 
Xvpuiv  (Yita  saneti  Patris  nostri  Joannis  Damasceni  a 
Joanne  Patriarcha  Uierosolymitano  conscripta).  The 


JOHN 


JOHN  9: 

work  is  a translation  from  the  Arabic,  or  at  least  founded  i 
upon  an  Arabic  biography,  and  was  written  a consider- 
able time  after  the  death  of  John  of  Damascus  (A.D. 
756),  and  after  the  cessation  of  the  Iconoclastic  contest, 
which  may  be  regarded  as  having  terminated  on  the 
death  of  the  emperor  Theophilus  (A.D.  842).  But  we 
have  no  data  for  determining  how  long  after  these 
events  the  author  lived.  Le  Quien  identifies  him  with 
a John,  patriarch  of  Jerusalem,  who  was  burnt  alive  by 
the  Saracens  in  the  latter  part  of  the  reign  (A.D.  963-9) 
of  Nicephoros  Phocas,  upon  suspicion  that  he  had  exci- 
ted that  emperor  to  attack  them  (Cedrenus,  Compend. 
p.  661,  edit.  Paris;  ii,  374,  ed.  Bonn).  This  life  of  John 
of  Damascus  was  first  published  at  Pome  with  the  ora- 
tions of  Dainaseenus  (De  Sacris  Imarjinibus  [1553, 
8vo]) ; it  was  reprinted  at  Basel  with  all  the  works 
of  John  of  Damascus  A.D.  1575;  in  the  Acta  Sancto- 
rum (May  6),  vol.  ii  (the  Latin  version  in  the  body 
of  the  work  [p.  Ill,  etc.],  and  the  original  in  the  Ap- 
pendix [p.  723,  etc.]) ; and  in  the  edition  of  the  Works 
of  Damascenus  by  Le  Quien,  vol.  i (Paris,  1712,  folio). 
The  Latin  version  is  given  (s.  d.  6 Maii)  in  the  Vita 
Sanctorum  of  Lippomani,  and  the  De  Probatis  Sancto- 
rum Vitis  of  Suriu3.  See  Le  Quien,  Joannis  Damasceni 
Opera,  note  at  the  beginning  of  the  Vita  S.J.  Damasc. ; 
and  Or  tens  Christianity,  iii,  466. — Fabricius,  JHbl.  Grceca, 
ix,  686,  689 ; x,  261 ; Cave,  Hist.  Lift,  ii,  29 ; Smith,  Diet. 
Gr.  and  Rom.  Biop.  ii,  598. 

J ohn  tiie  Laborious  (Johannes  Piiiloponus,  also 
snrnamed  Alexandrines  and  Grammaticus),  an  East- 
ern scholar  of  great  renown,  was  born  at  Alexandria  to- 
wards the  close  of  the  6th  century  or  the  beginning  of 
the  7th.  Of  his  personal  history  but  very  little  seems 
to  be  definitely  known.  He  is  said  to  have  been  pres- 
ent at  the  capture  of  that  city  by  the  Mohammedans 
(A.D.  639),  and  to  have  temporarily  embraced  their 
creed  to  prevent  the  burning  of  the  Alexandrian  libra- 
ry, but  the  truth  of  this  story  is  rather  doubtful  (comp. 
Gibbon,  Decline  and  Fall  Rom.  Emp.  ch.  Ii).  The  great 
renown  of  John  Philoponus  is  due  mainly,  perhaps,  to 
his  speculations  on  Christian  doctrine,  more  especially 
his  theories  on  the  Trinity,  cosmogony,  and  immortali- 
ty. lie  was  a passionate  admirer  of  Plato  and  Aristo- 
tle, and  hence  his  persistency  in  amending  Christian 
dogma  by  philosophy,  and  hence  much  ambiguity  in 
his  position  on  Christian  doctrines,  and  hence  also  the 
reason  why  he  has  so  frequently  been  the  subject  of  at- 
tack as  a heretic.  It  is  especially  his  theory  on  the 
Trinity  that  has  classed  him  among  the  Tritlieists,  of 
which  he  has  even  often,  though  inaccurately,  been 
pointed  out  as  the  founder,  while  in  truth  he  was  only 
a forerunner  of  them.  See,  however,  Tritiieism.  Ilis 
principal  work  on  dogmatics,  A lanyryg  y mot  iviooiutg, 
is  lost,  yet,  from  extracts  of  it  still  extant,  the  following 
has  been  determined  to  be  his  position  on  the  doctrine 
of  the  Trinity.  Nature  and  hypostasis  he  regards  as 
identical ; a double  nature  in  Christ  is  incompatible  with 
one  hypostasis ; and  to  the  objection  that  in  the  Trinity 
there  are  confessedly  three  hypostases  and  but  one  na- 
ture, he  argues  that  in  the  Trinity  three  particular  and 
individual  existences  or  hypostases  are  comprised  un- 
der the  idea  of  unity.  This  unit}',  however,  is  merely 
the  generic  term,  winch  comprehends  the  several  par- 
ticulars, the  Komoc  tqv  hum  Xuyog.  If  this  be  called 
nature,  it  is  done  in  an  abstract  sense,  and  is  inductively 
derived  from  particulars;  but  if  <{)vmg  is  to  convey  the 
sense  of  independent  existence,  it  must  join  the  particu- 
lar, individual  being,  and,  therefore,  the  hypostasis.  Ap- 
plying this  argument  to  Christ,  he  concludes  that  to  the 
unity  of  his  hypostasis  belongs  also  the  unity  of  nature. 
(Comp,  again  Tritheism,  and  Dorner,  Doct.  Person  of 
Christ,  diss. ii,  vol.  i, p.148,414.)  llisworks  extant  are. 
(1)  De  ceternitate  mundi,  or  flrpt  aiCioTtjTog  Ktiopov 
(Yen.  1535,  fol.),  in  which  he  attempts  to  establish  the 
Christian  dogma  of  creation  by  reason  alone,  without  ref- 
erence to  Biblical  authority.  The  ideas  are  eternal  only 
wheu  they  are  regarded  as  creative  thoughts  of  God; 


1 

as  such  they  arc  inherent  in  Frovidence.  and  their  real- 
ization adds  nothing  to  divine  perfection.  God,  by  his 
f£ig,  was  eternally  Creator,  and  his  essence  required  no 
new  characteristics  by  the  ivipyeia.  The  world  itself 
cannot  be  eternal,  for  the  effect  cannot  be  equal  to  the 
cause ; — (2)  In  his  Commentaria  in  Mosaicam  mundi  cre- 
ationem,  or  I Dpi  Kocruoirouag  (edited  by  Corder,  Vienna, 
1630),  he  attempts  to  reconcile  the  Mosaic  account  of 
creation  with  the  facts  derived  from  our  own  experience : 
— (3)  In  his  Hfpi  dvaardfftmg  (known  to  us  only  from 
Pliotins  [Cod.  21-23],  Nicephoros  [//.A.  xviii,  47],  and 
Timotheus  [De  receptn  h tv  ret.  in  Cotil.  Mon.  iii,  414  sq.]) 
he  separates  the  sensual  from  the  spiritual  creation,  a 
concession  to  philosophy  made  at  the  expense  of  Chris- 
tianity. “The  rational  soid,”  lie  argues,  “is  not  only 
an  tlcog,  but  an  imperishable  substance,  entirely  distinct 
from  all  irrational  existence,  in  which  matter  is  always 
associated  with  form.  In  consequence  of  this  insepara- 
ble connection  of  matter  and  form,  the  natural  body  is 
destroyed  and  annihilated  by  death.  The  resurrection 
of  the  body  is  the  new  creation  of  the  body — (4)  Ilf  pi 
ryg  tov  d<TTpoXdf3ov  %p/)crfwe  (published  by  Hase,  Bonn, 
1839) : — (5)  lltpi  dyaXpartov  against  Jamblichus):  — 
(6)  Commentaries  on  Aristotle  (Venice,  1509, 1534,  1535, 
etc.): — (7)  Grammatical  Essays  (in  Labbc,  Glossaria, 
London,  1816),  etc.  See  J.  (».  Scharfenberg,  De  J.  Pit. 
(Leipzig,  1768);  Fabricius,  Biblioth.  Grceca,  x,  639  sq.; 
Ritter,  Gesch.  d.  Philos,  vi,  500  sq. , Stud.  v.  Ki'it.  1835, 
p.  95  sq. ; Herzog,  Reul-Encyklop.  vi,  760;  Smith,  Diet, 
of  Greek  ami  Roman  Biography,  iii,  321. 

John  a Lasco.  See  Lasco. 

John  of  Leitomysl.  See  Leitomysl. 

John  of  Leyden.  Sec  Boccold. 

John  the  Little,  or  Johannes  Parvus  ( Jean  Pe- 
tit), a French  theologian,  was  born  in  Normandy  in  the 
latter  half  of  the  14th  century.  He  was  at  one  time 
professor  of  theology  in  the  University  of  Paris,  but  was 
deposed  for  having,  on  the  8th  of  March,  1408,  pro- 
nounced a discourse  in  justification  of  the  murder  of  the 
duke  of  Orleaus,  brother  of  the  king  of  France,  who  was 
assassinated  by  the  duke  of  Burgundy.  He  died  at 
Hesdin,  France,  in  1411. — Pierer,  Unir.Lex. 

John  Maro.  See  Maijonites. 

John  of  Matiia,  St.,  founder  of  the  Order  of  the 
Holy  Trinity  (also  called  Fathers  of  Mercy  in  Spam,  and 
Mathurins  in  Paris),  was  born  at  Faucon,  in  Provence,  in 
1154,  of  noble  parents.  lie  studied  at  Paris  University, 
and  then  entered  the  Church.  “At  his  first  celebration 
of  divine  service,”  the  legend  goes,  “ he  beheld  a vision 
of  an  angel  clothed  in  white,  having  a cross  of  red  and 
bine  on  his  breast,  with  his  hands,  crossed  over  each 
other,  resting  on  the  heads  of  two  slaves,  who  knelt  on 
each  side  of  him ; and  believing  that  in  this  vision  of 
the  mind  God  spoke  to  him,  and  called  him  to  the  de- 
liverance of  prisoners  and  captives,  he  immediately  sold 
all  his  goods,  and  forsook  the  world,  to  prepare  himself 
for  his  mission.”  In  conjunction  with  Felix  of  Valois  he 
arranged  the  constitutions  of  the  new  order,  and  togeth- 
er they  went  to  Rome  to  obtain  the  approval  of  pope 
Innocent  III.  Felix  having  had,  the  legend  continues, 
a similar  dream,  the  pope  gladly  complied  with  their  re- 
quest, and  the  order  was  approved  Feb.  2,  1199.  Gau- 
cher III,  of  Chatillon,  having  given  them  the  estate  of 
C’erfroi,  they  there  established  their  first  convent.  They 
also  obtained  several  other  convents  and  hospitals  in 
France  and  Spain,  and  a convent  and  church  at  Rome. 
Having  collected  large  suras  of  money,  John  dispatched 
two  of  his  brotherhood  to  the  coast  of  Africa,  whence 
they  returned  with  186  Christians  redeemed  from  the 
Mussulman’s  bonds.  The  year  following  John  himself 
went  to  Tunis,  preaching  on  his  way  all  through  Spain, 
and  creating  many  friends  for  his  noble  undertaking; 
he  returned  with  110  captives.  From  another  voyage 
he  returned  with  120  Christians.  Hereafter  he  devoted 
himself  to  preaching  at  Rome.  He  died  there  Dee.  21, 


JO  Htf 


972 


JOHN 


1013  and  was  canonized  bv  Innocent  XI,  July  30,  1679.  I village  in  the  district  of  Klatau,  about  the  middle  of 
He  is  commemorated  on  February  8.  The  dress  of  the  the  14th  century.  After  taking  orders,  he  rose  rapidly 
order  consists  in  a flowing  white  gown,  with  a red  and  to  distinction.  He  was  created  a canon  of  the  Catlie- 
blue  cross  on  the  breast.  See  P.  Ignace  Dillaud,  Vie  de  dral  of  Prague,  and  eventually  vicar  general  of  the  dio- 
HKJetm  de  Matha  (1095) ; llaillet,  Vies  des  Saints , Feb.  | cese.  The  queen,  Sophia,  the  second  wife  of  Wenzel  or 
H •*  II oefer  Xour.  Bioe/r.Gen.  xxvi,441;  31  rs.  Jameson,  Wenceslaus  IV,  having  selected  him  for  her  confessor, 
1 /ends  of  Monastic  Orders,  p.  217  sq.  Wenceslaus,  himself  a man  of  most  dissolute  life,  con- 

John  or  Mki.a,  St.,  founder,  or  rather  reformer  of  the  ceiving  suspicions  of  her  virtue,  required  of  John  tore- 
onliT  of  the  ffu»tUiati,was  horn  at  Meda.  near  Como,  to-  ' <tal  to  h,m  , that  he  knew  of  her  hfe  Iron,  the  confes- 
wartls  the  close  ofthe  1 1th  eeuturv.  He  was  a member  <"»'»  hai1  made  to  lmn.  John  steadfastly 

of  the  Oldrati  familv  of  Milan.  ' After  ordination  he  refused,  a"d  the  k'ttg  resolved  to  he  revenged  for  the 
withdrew  to  the  sn'litiule  of  Ilondenario,  near  Como,  relusal.  An  opportun tty  occurred soon  afterwards  when 
which  he  snhsequcntlv  left  to  loin  the  Humiliati,  then  the  monks  of  the  Boned.ct.no  abbey  of  Madron  elected 
a lav  congregation.  Chosen  their  superior,  he  subjected  aa  >“  opposition  to  the  des.gn  of  the  king  who 

them  to  the  rule  of  St.  Benedict,  onlv  changing  the  ap-  "'shcd  » ^stow  “P°“  °“e  “f  hl?  °"nl  <Ussu  favor- 
pellations  of  brethren  and  monks  into  canons.  He  obliged  >tes,  and  obta.ned  from  John,  as  y, car  general,  at  once  a 
then,  also  to  sat-  the  Virgin's  mass  evert-  dat . and  com-  conhrmation  ot  thetr  chotce  \\  ouceslans  having  flmt 
i wised  a special'  breviary  for  their  use,  which  was  call-  1“*  to  the  torture,  at  winch  he  himself  personalty 
Id  canons'  office.  The  Humiliati  v.)  thus  became  a presulcl,  had  Inn,  tied  hand  and  foot,  and  flung,  already 
regular  order,  with  clerical  and  lav  members.  John  of  ‘all  dead  from  the  rack,  into  the  Jloldan  (March,  1393). 
Meda  gained  a large  number  of  proselytes  by  his  p reach-  Ihesc  htstorica  tacts  have  been  considerably  enlarged, 
lug,  and  was  reputed  verv  charitahl'e.  He  died  Sept.  “'«•  embellished  with  legendary  additions,  in  Ins  htog- 
9k  115D,  and  was  canonized  a few  .lavs  after  his  death  raphy  by  Bohnslav  Balbmits.  According  to  these,  his 
hv  pope  Alexander  III.  .See,  St.  Antonin,  Hist,  part  ii.  W«h  was  signalled  by  miraculous  signs,  and  after  his 
tfxv.  ch.xxiii;  Kvh-estre  Manrolvc,  Mare  Ocean  di  talti  martyrdom  his  body  was  discovered  by  a miraculous 
ft  Hell,,.;  Moreri;  Grand  Did.  bistorique .-  Hiohard  et  >'Sht  which  issued  from  it,  was  taken  up,  and  buried 
( iiraud,  ISiblioth.  .Sac.- Iloofer,  X.nmJle  JJioa.  Generate,  the  greatest  honor.  Several  able  Romanist  writers 

xxvi  4-11.  have  frequently  attempted  to  reconcile  the  points  of 

T , ,,  , r , ir  , , T conflict  between  the  legend  and  the  historical  account. 

John  tiie  Monk  (Johannes  Monachus),  or  John  of  ,,  . . T.  , ,,  q . • T,  , , • 

r,  t i ■.  i /n  See  Herzog,  Real-Encuklop.  vi,  i49  sq. ; Pelzel,  Raiser 

( ukssv,  a Irencli  canonist,  was  born  at  Cressv,  Pon-  ...  . { ...  ,*  ...  , . 

fi  ; , (k„  i-ni  , IT  * , Wenceslaus,  1, 262  sq. ; \\  etzer  u.  \\  cite,  hire  ken- Lex.  v, 

t men,  in  the  13th  century.  lie  was  a Cistercian  monk,  ’ ’ 1 — - -•  - - - - 


and  was  created  cardinal.  He  died  in  1313.  lie  wrote 


725  sq.  Dr.  Otto  Abel  (Die  Seiae  v.  heil.  Johan,  v.  Nep.) 

.aiuiiiiii.  jjc  men  in  1010.  ne  wrote  1 , . . , , . 

commentaries  on  the  decretals  of  Boniface  VIII  and  ">e  lcScml  ? be  f Jesmttcal  mveutton,  and  to 

Benedict  IX.  and  was  the  limt  who  wrote  on  the  whole  date  from  the  restoration  of  popery  ,n  Bohemia  to  serve 
.Sedas  of  Boniface  VXli.  The  same  work  was  after-  “ “ P0I'"I1?r  counterpart  to  the  mar  yrclom  of  Hnss  and 
wards  done  hv  Cuido  de  Baisio,  and  still  better  hv  Jo-  ”.ls  memor-v  “ cbenshed  " lth  Pec'‘llar  aff?c 

hannes  Atulrck  The  glossaries  of  Johannes  Monachus  '?  h“  ,,atlv‘ ‘ “■“‘‘T-  ««  ™ canontml  as  a mint  of 

were  annotated  and  published  hvPItikPiohun, doctor  of  ! he  Homan  Catholic  Church  by  Benedict  XIII  ...  1.29, 
the  school  of  Bom-gcs.  Ills  MSS.,  tinder  the  title  Glos-  ”s  feast  being  hxed  for  the  20th  of  March.  By  some 
...»  in  sertum  decretal!, m,  are  preserved  in  the  public  11-  hlstor,ans>  |"'0  dlst,,nct  l*»»»»g»  of  the  same  name  are 
br.1  ry  of  Chartres,  lie  is  also  considered  by  some  as  ™u"*™ted-stnio  the  martyr  of  the  confessional  seal, 
the  author  ofthe  Defemorum  Juris,  hut  this  is  not  the  other  of  the  resistance  to  the  stmomacal  tyranny  ot 
prove, h See  Savigny,  Cataloe/ue  de  la  Bibl.  de  Chartres,  " .eneeslaus;  hut  the  identity  of  the  two  ts  well  sustam- 
iv,  274. — Iloefcr,  Xouc.  Bwq.  Gcn.  xxvi,  559.  (J.N.I’A  el1  hy  Palacky,  Gesch.  von  Uohnutn,  in,  62.  hoe  Cham- 
T , y bers,  Ci/clop.  s.  v. : Aschbacb,  Kircheu-Lex.  iii,  556  sq. 

Jonn  of  Month  Couvino,  a celebrated  early  Ro- 
man missionary  among  tlie  Mongols,  belonged  to  the  John  Niciota  (from  Nidus,  probably  the  city  of 
Franciscan  order,  and  flourished  towards  the  close  of  that  name  in  the  ThebaTs),  also  surnamed  the  Recluse , 
the  13th  century,  lie  was  born  in  Monte  Corvino  a patriarch  of  the  Jacobite  Alexandrian  Church,  flourish^ 
small  city  in  Apulia,  and  bad,  previous  to  his  appoint-  i 0(1  *n  the  ear,y  Part  tlie  6th  century,  and  was  in  the 
ment.  ns  Eastern  missionary,  distinguished  himself  (in  patriarchal  chair  from  507  to  517.  He  is  noted  for  his 
1272)  as  ambassador  of  the  emperor  Michael  Palaeolo-  ' violent  opposition  to  the  decrees  of  theCouncil  of  t'halce- 
gus  to  pope  (Iregory  X in  behalf  of  a contemplated  union  1 ''on>  anL*  sahl  to  have  refused  communication  with  any 
of  the  Eastern  and  Western  churches.  lie  had  travelled  ^lat  not  expressly  anathematize  them,  and  to  have 
in  the  East,  and,  aware  of  the  opening  for  Christian-  I promised  the  emperor  Anastasias  two  hundred  pounds 
ily  among  the  Mongols,  had  urged  the  Roman  see  to  | °f  gold  if  he  would  procure  their  final  and  decisive  abro- 
dispatch  missionaries  to  them;  hut  their  efforts  proved  , trillion  (see Neale, Hist. East.  Ch.  [Alexandria]  ii, 26, 27 ; 
unsuccessful,  and  in  1289  lie  finally,  at  the  instance  of  ‘ Theophanes,  s.  a.  A.D.  512).  Among  the  Jacobites,  who 
pope  Nicholas  IV,  set  out  for  that  distant  field  himself.  m his  day  enjoyed  especial  favor  at  the  imperial  court 


that  ho  had  to  buy  the  children  of  natives  in  order  to  ‘ arc'1  John  II  of  Alexandria,  is  reckoned  among 
educate  them  in  Christian  doctrines,  and  through  them  sahits.  lie  is  believed  to  he  the  author  of  a leai 
to  influence  nmturor  minds.  About  1305  he  had  some 
six  thousand  converts,  and  the  prospect  of  still  greater 


the 
learned 

work  against  the  Pelagians,  addressed  to  pope  (lelasius. 
Some  think  it  was  written  by  John  1 of  Alexandria,  hut 


additions  In  13(17  other  laborers  were  sent  into  the  probability  the  production  of  John  Niciota, 

a id,  and  John  de  Monte  Corvino  was  appointed  arch-  a,,d  was  written  before’ his  accession  to  the  patriarchal 
bishop  (his  see  was  named  Camhalu).  and  the  Christian  1 fhair.  (J.  H.  W.) 
interests  were  advanced  among  the  Mongols  even  after 
Johns  death  (1328),  until  the  downfall  ofthe  Mongol 
dynasty.  Sec  Mon<;oi.s.  ( J.  II.  W.) 

John  of  XicmMCK  (more  properlv  Pomitk),  a very 
p<  1 'id nr  Ilohemian  saint  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church, 
anil  honored  hy  them  as  a martyr  ofthe  inviolability 
"I  i lie  seal  of  confession.  11c  was  bom  at  I’oinuk.  a 


John  of  Nicki.ausiiafsen,  a German  religious  fa- 
natic, flourished,  in  the  second  half  of  the  15th  century, 
at  Nicklaushausen,  in  the  diocese  of  Wurzburg.  lie 
was  earning  his  livelihood  as  a swineherd  when  it  sud- 
denly occurred  to  him  that  an  attack  upon  the  clergy, 
and  a summons  to  them  to  reform  their  profligate  ways, 
might  meet  with  applause  from  the  people,  to  whom  at 


JOHX 


973 


JOIIX 


this  time  “ the  clergy,  as  a body,  had  become  a stench  } 
in  their  nostrils.”  He  was  not  slow  openly  and  loudly 
to  proclaim  his  mission  (in  1476),  to  which  he  claimed 
he  had  been  inspired  by  the  Virgin  Man',  and  soon  im- 
mense flocks  gathered  about  him,  who  came  from  the 
Eliine  lands  to  Misnia,  and  from  Saxony  to  Bavaria,  so 
that  at  times  he  preached  to  a congregation  of  20,000  or 
30,000  men.  “ llis  doctrines,”  says  Lea  (Hist.  Celibacy , 
p.  397),  “ were  revolutionary,  for  he  denounced  oppres-  | 
sion  both  secular  and  clerical ; but  he  was  particularly 
severe  upon  the  vices  of  the  ecclesiastical  body.  A j 
special  revelation  of  the  Virgin  had  informed  him  that  i 
God  could  no  longer  endure  them,  and  that  the  world 
could  not,  without  a speedy  reformation,  be  saved  from 
the  divine  wrath  consequent  upon  them”  (comp.  Trithe- 
mius,  Chron. Hirsang.  aim.  1476).  The  unfortunate  man, 
who  was  a lit  precursor  of  Miincer  and  John  of  Leyden, 
was  seized  by  the  bishop  of  Wurzburg,  the  fanatical 
zeal  of  his  unarmed  followers  easily  subdued,  and  he 
himself  suffered,  for  his  rashness,  death  at  the  stake  a 
few  days  after  his  trial.  (J.  II.  W.) 

John  of  Nicomkoia,  a presbyter  of  the  Church  of 
Nicomedia,  in  Bithvnia,  in  the  time  of  Constantine  the 
Great,  is  noted  as  the  autlmr  of  Naprvpiov  too  ayiov 
BaniXsojQ  tmanoTrov  ’Apamiac,  Acta  martyrii  S.  Bu- 
silei  episcopi  A mas  Ur,  which  is  given  in  the  Acta  > Sanc- 
torum of  the  Bollandists  (Aprilis,  vol.  iii);  the  Latin 
version  in  the  body  of  the  work  (p.  417),  with  a prelimi- 
nary notice  by  Henschcn,  and  the  Greek  original  in  the 
Appendix  (p.  30).  An  extract  from  the  Latin  version, 
containing  the  history  of  the  female  saint  Glaphyra, 
had  previously  been  given  in  the  same  work  (Januar.  i, 
771).  The  Latin  version  of  the  Acta  Martyrii  S.  Basi- 
lei  had  already  been  published  by  Aloysius  Lippomani 
(Vitas  Sanctor.  Pat  mm,  vol.  vii)  and  by  Surius  (I)e  pro- 
bat is  Sanctorum  I 'it is,  s.  d.  26  Aprilis).  Basileus  was  put 
to  death  about  the  close  of  the  reign  of  Licinins,  A.D. 
322  or  323,  and  John,  who  was  then  at  Nicomedia,  pro- 
fesses to  have  conversed  with  him  in  prison.  Cave 
thinks  that  the  Acta  have  been  interpolated,  apparently 
by  Metaphrastes.  See  A eta  Sanctorum,  11.  cc. ; Cave, 
Hist.  Lift,  i,  185. — Smith,  Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Biog.  ii,  601 . 

John  of  Oxford,  an  English  prelate,  flourished  in 
the  second  half  of  the  12th  century,  and  took  an  ac- 
tive and  important  partin  the  controversy  between  king 
Henry  II  of  England  and  his  archbishop  Thomas  ii 
Becket  in  behalf  of  his  royal  master,  whose  favor  and 
unlimited  confidence  he  enjoyed.  lie  had  attended  the 
Diet  at  Wi'uzburg  in  1165,  held  to  cement  a union  be- 
tween Henry  and  the  emperor  of  Germany,  and  had  , 
there  taken  the  oath  of  fidelity  to  the  rival  pope  of  Al- 
exander, Paschal  III,  whom  the  emperor  supported.  1 
For  his  success  in  this  mission,  John,  on  his  return,  was 
rewarded  by  king  Henry  II  with  the  appointment  of 
dean  of  Salisbury.  Of  course  the  archbishop,  at  this  | 
time  himself  claiming  the  right  to  fill  these  positions,  j 
disapproved  of  the  appointment,  and  even  suspended  ; 
and  cited  before  him  for  trial  the  bishop  of  the  diocese  j 
of  Salisbury,  who  had  approved  the  royal  action.  (See 
Inett,  History  of  the  English  Church,  vol.  ii,  pt.  i,  p.  337, 
note;  Bobertson,  Life  of  Becket,  p.  186,  note  d ; compare 
art.  J offline  of  Salisbury  and  Clarendon  Consti- 
tutions.) John,  disregarding  the  archbishop’s  censures, 
was  finally  punished  by  excommunication  (in  11 66).  The 
king  at  once  dispatched  a special  embassy  to  pope  Al-  , 
exander,  John  of  Oxford  being  one  of  the  number,  and. 
notwithstanding  the  archbishop’s  serious  actions  against 
John  of  Oxford,  the  pope,  anxious  to  continue  friendly  j 
relations  with  the  English  court,  favorably  received 
John,  and  the  latter  even  measurably  succeeded  in  the  j 
object  of  their  mission  [see  art.  Becket],  securing  also  | 
the  pope’s  confirmation  of  his  appointment  as  dean  of 
Salisbury.  After  the  close  of  the  controversy  and  the 
return  of  Becket,  John  of  Oxford  was  appointed  by  the 
king  to  meet  and  reinstate  the  archbishop,  a not  very  | 
moderate  reproval  to  the  haughty  prelate , and  upon  j 


the  death  of  the  latter  John  further  received  evidence 
of  the  grateful  remembrance  of  his  royal  master  by  the 
appointment  to  the  bishopric  of  Norwich  (1175),  and 
as  such  attended  the  Lateran  Council  in  1179.  The  ex- 
act time  of  his  decease  is  not  known  to  us,  neither  are 
we  aware  that  he  performed  any  literary  work  of  value ; 
in  all  probability,  liis  active  part  in  the  king’s  contro- 
versy absorbed  all  his  interests.  See  Milraan,  Latin 
Christianity,  iv,  364  sq.,  408.  (J.  II.  W.) 

John  of  Paris,  a celebrated  French  Dominican  of 
the  13th  century,  was  professor  of  theology  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Paris,  lie  owes  his  renown  to  the  part  he 
took  in  the  controversy  then  waging  between  his  king, 
Philip  the  Fair,  and  pope  Boniface  VIII.  The  latter, 
fearing  his  deposition  on  the  plea  that  the  resignation 
of  his  predecessor  Celestine  was  illegal,  took  every  means 
to  advance  the  doctrine  of  papal  absolutism.  Not 
only  in  matters  spiritual,  but  also  in  matters  tempo- 
ral, the  pope  was  t«  be  regarded  supreme;  in  short,  to 
save  his  office,  he  carried  his  schemes  for  the  enlarge- 
ment of  the  papal  power  to  the  verge  of  frenzy.  Un- 
luckily for  Boniface,  however,  he  found  his  equal  in 
Philip  the  Fair,  who  not  only  denied  the  temporal  pow- 
er of  the  pope,  but  finally  even  scorned  the  foolish  con- 
duct of  Boniface  in  seeking  to  frighten  him  by  issuing 
bulls  against  him  and  his  kingdom.  The  University 
of  Paris  sided  with  the  king,  and  among  his  most  out- 
spoken friends  were  John  of  Paris  and  Accidius  of  Borne. 
The  former  even  published  a work  against  the  papal 
assumptions,  entitled  De  regia  potestate  papali  (in  tl.c 
collection  of  Goldast,  vol.  ii),  in  which  he  dared  to  as- 
sert that  “the  priest,  in  spiritual  things,  was  greater 
than  the  prince,  but  in  temporal  things  the  prince  was 
greater  than  the  priest. ; though,  absolutely  considered, 
the  priest  was  the  greater  of  the  two.”  lie  also  main- 
tained that  the  pope  had  no  power  over  the  property 
either  of  the  Church  or  her  subjects.  As  the  kingdom 
of  Christ  is  a spiritual  one,  having  its  foundation  in  the 
hearts  of  men,  not  in  their  possessions,  so  the  power 
conferred  on  the  pope  relates  simply  to  the  wants  or  to 
the  advantage  of  the  universal  Church.  lie  also  stood 
up  in  defence  of  the  independent  power  of  the  bishops 
and  priests,  and  denied  that  this  is  derived  from  God 
through  the  mediation  of  the  pope  alone,  maintaining 
that  it  springs  directly  from  God,  through  the  choice  or 
concurrence  of  the  communities.  “For  it  was  not  Pe- 
ter, whose  successor  is  the  pope,  that  scut  forth  the 
other  apostles,  whose  successors  arc  the  bishops ; or  who 
sent  forth  the  seventy  disciples,  whose  successors  are 
the  parish  priests;  hut  Christ  himself  did  this  directly. 
It  was  not  Peter  who  detained  the  apostles  in  order  to 
impart  to  them  the  Holy  Ghost;  it  was  not  lie  who 
gave  them  power  to  forgive  sins,  but  Christ.  Nor  did 
Paul  say  that  he  received  from  Peter  his  apostolical  of- 
fice, but  he  said  that  it  came  to  him  directly  from  Christ 
or  from  God ; that  three  years  had  elapsed  after  he  re- 
ceived his  commission  to  preach  the  Gospel  before  he  had 
an  interview  with  Peter.”  But  more  than  this  he  argued. 
The  pope  himself  was  even  amenable  to  a worldly  power 
for  his  conduct  in  the  papal  chair.  As  such  he  regarded 
not  simply  the  (Ecumenical  Council,  but  to  the  secular 
princes  also  he  believed  this  right  belonged,  subject, 
however,  to  a demand  on  the  part  of  the  clergy  for  aid. 
Neander  says  (Ch.  Hist,  v,  18),  “ If  the  pope  gave  scan- 
dal to  the  Church,  and  showed  himself  incorrigible,  it 
was  in  the  power  of  secular  rulers  to  bring  about  his 
abdication  or  his  deposition  by  means  of  their  influence 
on  him  or  on  his  cardinals.”  If  the  pope  would  not 
yield,  they  might  so  manage  as  to  compel  him  to  yield. 
They  might  command  the  people,  under  severe  penal- 
ties, to  refuse  obedience  to  him  as  pope.  John  of  Paris 
finally  enters  into  a particular  investigation  of  the 
question  whether  the  pope  can  be  deposed  or  can  abdi- 
cate, a query  that  had  been  raised  by  the  family  of  the 
Colonnas,  whom  the  pope  had  estranged,  and  who  were 
anxious  to  make  null  and  void  the  resignation  of  pope 
Celestine,  and  to  reassert  the  latter’s  claim  to  the  papa- 


JOHN 


974 


JOHN 


cy.  What  conclusions  he  must  have  arrived  at  on  this 
point  may  be  gathered  from  the  preceding  remarks, 
lie  distinctly  affirmed  that,  as  the  papacy  existed  only 
for  the  benefit  of  the  Church,  the  pope  ought  to  lay 
down  his  ofiice  whenever  it  obstructed  this  end,  the 
highest  end  of  Christian  love.  Though  he  measurably 


Sanctorum  of  the  Bollandists,  Maii  li,  ad  init.  See  Al- 
latius,  AvppiKra,  Pnefatiuncula;  Fabricins,  Bibl.  6’r.iv, 
662 ; viii,  99. — Smith,  Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Biog.  ii,  601. 

John  Phurnes  (<bo vpvijg'),  a monk  of  the  monastery 
of  Mount  Ganus,  who  flourished  in  the  reign  of  the  em- 
peror Alexis  Coranenus  (11th  century),  was  an  opponent 


served  Boniface  VIII  by  his  last  conclusions,  he  had  yet  of  the  Latin  Church,  and  is  noted  as  the  author  of 
sufficiently  aroused  the  hatred  ol  the  Ionian  see  to  ear  ,^7r0\0yJ*a>  Defensio,  or  Atd\t£tg,  Disceptatio , a discus- 
for  his  position  in  the  Church;  and  no  sooner  did  an  gjon  was  carried  on  with  Peter,  archbishop  of 

opportunity  present  itself  to  Bom  I ace  than  John  was  jn  tpe  presence  of  the  emperor.  If  this  is  the 

made  to  leel  the  strong  arm  ol  Ins  opponent.  Having  work  y.-pfoh  John  Yeccus  cites  and  replies  to  in  his 
advocated  in  the  pulpit,  contrary  to  the  human  Catholic  ; ])e  Unione  Ecclesiarum  Oratio  (apud  Allatium,  Gracia 


dogma  of  the  real  presence,  a so-called  vnpanahon,  viz.  j Orthodoxn,  i}  179)  etCi)j  it  appears  that  the  form  of  a 
“that,  in  virtue  ol  a union  of  the  body  and  blood  o • <jiai0gue  was  assurned  for  convenience’  sake,  and  that  it 
I'hrist  with  the  bread  and  wine,  like  the  union  o,  le  wag  )lot  tke  dialogue  of  a real  conference.  According 

imtuxno  irv  Pliriwt  tlin  nrofltodtoc  fif  tllA  nnp  TTllinlt  . . . . ‘ . « . , . , --  - 


two  natures  in  Christ,  the  predicates  of  the  one  might 
be  transferred  over  to  the  other,”  he  was  prohibited 


to  Fabricius,  Allatius  also  published  in  his  work  De 
Consensu  (sc.  De  Ecclesia  Occidentals  et  Orientals  per- 


from  preaching  by  the  bishop  of  Paris.  An  appeal  to  , a Co„se'nsioHe)  p/1153  a work  0f  John  which  is 

* Is  Aifiln  nnrl  Inc  frAllhlhC  hiniPtl  _ i - . 


the  pope,  of  course,  proved  futile,  and  his  troubles  ended 
oidy  with  his  life,  in  1304.  lie  embodied  his  views  of 
the  sacrament  in  his  work  Determinate  de  modo  exS- 
tendi  corporS  ChrSti  in  Sacramento  altaris  (London, 
10*6, 8 vo): — Correctorium  doctrince  sancti  Thomee.  See 
Neander,  Ch.  I/St.  iv,  340;  v,  sect,  i;  Moslieim,  Eccles. 
//St.  bk.  iii,  cent,  xiii,  pt.  ii,  ch.  iii,  § 14.  See  also  Box- 
ikace;  Papacy;  Lord’s  Supper. 

John  of  Parma,  also  called  Joannes  Borellus 
or  Bfrallus,  a learned  monk  of  the  loth  century,  was 
born  at  Parma  about  1209.  lie  became  a Franciscan, 
taught  theology  with  great  success  at  the  universities 


described  as  EpStola  de  Ritibus  immutatS  in  Sacra 
Communione.  Other  works  of  John  are  extant  in  31 S. 
See  Allatius,  Grac.  Orthodox.  1.  c.;  Fabricius,  Bibl.  Gr. 
xi,  648,  650. — Smith,  Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Bwg.  ii,  601. 

John  the  Presbyter,  a supposed  disciple  of  Jesus, 
and  instructor  of  Papias  of  llierapolis,  is  said  to  have 
been  a contemporary  of  the  apostle  John  (with  whom  it 
is  thought  he  has  been  confounded  by  earl}-  Church  his- 
torians), and  to  have  resided  at  Ephesus.  For  the  as- 
sertion that  there  existed  such  a person,  the  testimony 
advanced  is  (1)  that  of  Papias  (in  Eusebius,  Hist.  Eccles. 


of  Naples,  Holin', la,  ami  Paris,  ami  in  1247  was  ma.le  'n-  f >-  'v,1°>  <*  ‘ « personal  efforts  lie  put 

general  of  Iris  onler  by  the  chapter  assemble, 1 at  Avig-  I to  cstabhsh  hlm8el!:  m,th®  Chnsfan  faith,  says: 
non.  He  showe.l  great  aeal  for  the  reformation  of  eon-  , " he"cvet  ,m*  ,on-  * a s . 1,ntcrcou.rse 

vents,  ami  strictly  enforced  the  discipline.  In  1249  he  ",‘h  ,h.c  eU,ers  <"!«  I made  inquiry 

was  sent  to  Greece  hv  Innocent  IV,  with  a view  to  the  c™cfr"'"S  «te  declaratmns  of  these , what  Andrew, 
reeou cilia, ion  of  the  Eastern  Church,  but  failed  in  that  i ";h«  nr  I h.hp,  or  Thomas,  or  James,  or  John,  or 

undertaking,  ami  returned  to  Italy  in  1251.  A chapter  Matt  lcw‘  "r  a,'-v  :"!,w  »f  l'"’  'l‘*ciples- ol  the  Lord  said, 
held  at  Home  in  I25G  accused  him  of  favoring  the  her-  ™ ",!s0,  "'h'"  ArKl,"a  John 

esies  of  Joachim,  abbot  of  Finns,  whose  work, '77, e Km-  °-f"K  Lonl’  !'or  1 Sieved  that  I should  not  de- 

liutiH)  GmjW,  he  edited,  and  accompanied  with  a pref-  n™.s0  nu,ch  “dvantage  from  books  as  from  living  and 
- oiiwiinre  Aamt,™ » Eusebius,  in  reporting  this,  takes 


him  to  be  condemned  to  imprisonment,  but  the  protec-  , James’  ancl  Matthew,  "’here  only  the  apostle  ( 
tion  of  cardinal  Ottoboni,  afterwards  Adrian  V,  prevent-  ! tended*  nnd  a9utH  almd  v‘ith  A where  he  illshn' 

ed  the  execution  of  the  sentence.  lie  was  nevertheless  I Wnshes  him  bU  the  title  °f  “the  Presbyter Eusebius 
obliged  to  bide  himself  in  the  convent  of  Grecchia,  near  further  states  that  this  confirms  the  report  of  those  who 
h’ieti.  He  subsequently  set  out  to  return  to  Greece,  but  relatc  that  there  were  tw0  men  in  Asia  Millor  who  bore 
died  at  Cainerino  in  1289.  He  was  canonized  in  the  that  name’  and  had  been  doselv  connected  with  Christ, 


lnth 

hi. 


fill  century  by  the  Congregation  of  Bites.  None  of  and  then  continues  by  showing  that  tiro  tombs  had  been 
s writings  were  published.  See  //St.  Litteraire  de  la  fnmtI  in  EPhesus  faring  the  name  of  John.  Further 
France,  xx,  23;  Wadding,  Script.  Ord.  Minor.;  Fleurv  proof  is  fon.nd  in  anotber  Part  of  his  bistor}r  (vii,  25), 

//»*..#  \ ft*  t r it.  ...  . _ ' wliPrp  Yip  nifpc  Tliniivcinc  Iticlinn  pf  AlovnnJrtn  nlmuf 


//St.  End.;  Ireneo  Affo,' Memorie  degli Scrittori  et  Lit-  where.be  cites  Dionysius,  bishop  of  Alexandria,  about 


John  Parvus.  See  John  the  Little. 

John  Pimloi'onus.  Sec  John  the  Laborious. 
John  Pilot  'As  (ffioKflfj),  a Cretan  monk  and  nriest 


which  Eusebios  himself  was  inclined  to  do.  The  exist- 
ence of  a presbyter  John  is  (2)  declared  in  the  Apostol- 
ical Constitutions  (vii,  36),  where  it  is  said  that  the  sec- 
ond John  was  bishop  of  Ephesus  after  John  the  Apos- 
tle, and  that  it  was  by  the  latter  that  he  was  instituted 


,1  , ; j , T * • *•«  uuaa  iiiviiiii]  ms  ciiisucin  dmianms  evi 

v ^ t\(ToJ  l’fH0V  t'aorrpiov  Kai  \«jowv  defence  of  the  existence  of  such  a person  as  John  the 

if-pmc  *ai  tyoiviKgg  KOi  tCov  K-«rd  HaXatarivgv  uyimv  \ ' 1 


riimov,  Compendiaria.  Rescripts 


Presbyter  appear  prominently  among  modern  critics 


was  mnrrioil  lwfnrr.  im  1,1.™™  • .1  , ..  1 ”or  ,ie  I l'vo  epistles  of  John,  generallv  believed  to  be  the  pro- 

li-shod  hv  gVllatius  with  « I otin  ,ir,es.t^ a”d  b»ally  pub-  ductions  of  John  the  Apostle;  also  Liicke,  Bleek,  De 
tu  i U4G.  The  Latin  ver-i  ' ' ^rsu,,b  in  bis  Avpf.uK-  Wette,  and  Neamler,  who  consider  John  the  Presbyter 
so  s a so  given  m the  Acta  I the  author  of  the  Apocalypse.  The  simple  question 


JOHN- 


975 


JOHN 


whether  another  John  existed  in  Asia  Minor  contempo- 
rary with  John  the  Apostle  would,  of  course,  be  of  little 
import,  but  the  fact  that  the  apostolical  authorship  of 
some  of  the  epistles  and  of  the  Apocalypse  is  doubted 
has  called  to  critical  inquiry  most  of  the  leading  theo- 
logical minds  of  our  day.  The  result  is  that,  while 
some  have  conceded  the  existence  of  another  John, 
clothed  even  with  episcopal  dignity  (Dbllinger,  First 
Age  of  the  Church,  p.  113),  others  have  denied  alto- 
gether the  probability  of  the  existence  of  such  a person 
contemporary  with  the  apostle  John  (see  Scliaff,  Church 
History . Apostolic  Age,  p.  421,  note).  Dr.W.  L.  Alex- 
ander, in  reviewing  the  proofs  of  those  who  assert  the 
existence  of  John  and  his  authorship  of  some  of  the  Jo- 
hannean  writings,  thinks  that  in  the  way  of  this  assump- 
tion stands  the  following:  1.  “The  negative  evidence 
arising  from  the  silence  of  all  other  ancient  authorities, 
especially  the  silence  of  Polycrates,  bishop  of  Ephesus, 
who,  in  a list  of  eminent  teachers  and  bishops  in  Asia 
Minor,  preserved  by  Eusebius  (Ilist.  Feel,  v,  24),  makes 
no  mention  of  John  the  Presbyter;  and,  2.  The  positive 
evidence  afforded  by  the  statement  of  Irenjeus,  who  not 
only  omits  all  mention  of  the  Presbyter,  but  says  that 
Papias  was  a hearer  of  John  the  Apostle  along  with 
Polycarp  (ade.  I/ieres.  v,  33).  [Not  so  thinks  Donald- 
son in  his  Hist.  Christ.  Lit.  and  Doetr.  i,  312  sq.]  This 
counter  evidence  has  appeared  to  some  so  strong  that 
they  have  thought  it  sufficient  to  set  aside  that  of  Pa- 
pias, who,  they  remind  us,  is  described  by  Eusebius  as  j 
a man  of  a very  small  intellect  (aitn'Jpa  opiKpbg  tLv  I 
vovv,  Hist.  Fecks,  iii,  39).  [See  Scliaff  below.]  But 
this  seems  going  too  far.  Papias  describes  himself  as  a 
hearer  of  the  presbyter  John  (Euseb.  v,  24),  and  in  this 
he  could  hardly  be  mistaken,  whatever  was  his  defi- 
ciency in  intellectual  power  [this  view  is  advocated  by 
Zahn  (in  his  Hernias)  and  Eiggenbach  ( Jahrh . devtseher 
Theol.  xiii,  319);  against  it,  see  Steitz  (in  Jahrh.  xiv, 
145  sq.)]  ; whereas  it  is  very  possible  that  Irenauis  may 
have  confounded  the  presbyter  with  the  apostle,  the 
latter  of  whom  would  be  to  his  mind  much  more  famil- 
iar than  the  former.  The  silence  of  Polycrates  may  he 
held  proof  sufficient  that  no  John  the  Presbyter  was 
bishop  of  Ephesus,  or  famed  as  a teacher  of  Christianity 
in  Asia  Minor;  but,  as  Papias  does  not  attest  this,  his 
testimony  remains  unaffected  by  this  conclusion.  On 
the  whole,  the  existence  of  a John  the  Presbyter  seems 
to  be  proved  by  the  testimony  of  Papias;  but  beyond 
this,  and  the  fact  that  he  was  a disciple  of  the  Lord, 
nothing  is  certainly  known  of  him.  Credner  contends 
that  TcpeofivTipcq  is  to  be  taken  in  its  ordinary  sense 
of  ‘older,’  and  that  it  was  applied  to  the  person  men- 
tioned by  Papias  cither  because  he  was  the  senior  of 
St.John,  or  because  he  arrived  before  him  in  Asia  Mi- 
nor; but  this  is  improbable  in  itself;  and,  had  Papias 
meant  to  intimate  this,  he  would  not  have  simply  called 
him  6 7rpf<Tj3unpoc  Twnri'ijp  (see  Liddon,  p.  514).  In 
his  statement  7rpf<r/3u-fpoc  is  plainly  opposed  to  d.Tro(r- 
toXoq  as  a distinctive  title  of  office”  (Kitto,  Cyclop,  s.  v.). 
We  cannot  close  without  permitting  Dr.  Scliaff  (J post. 
Ch.  Hist.  p.  421  sq.)  to  give  his  view  on  this  important 
question.  He  says:  “There  is  room  even  to  inquire 
whether  the  very  existence  of  this  obscure  presbyter 
and  mysterious  duplicate  of  the  apostle  John  rests  not 
upon  sheer  misunderstanding,  as  Herder  suspected  (Of- 
ftnb.  Joh.  p.  206,  in  the  xiitli  vol.  of  Herder’s  Werke  zvr 
Theol.).  We  candidly  avow  that  to  us,  notwithstand- 
ing what  Liieke  (5v,  396  sq.)  and  Credner  ( Finleit . in's 
N.  Test,  i,  694  sq.)  have  said  in  its  favor,  this  man’s 
existence  seems  very  doubtful.  The  only  proper,  orig- 
inal testimony  for  it  is,  as  is  well  known,  an  obscure 
passage  of  Papias  in  Eusebius,  iii.  39.”  After  doubting 
the  propriety  of  giving  credit  to  a statement  of  Papias 
not  reiterated  by  any  other  authority  of  the  early 
Church,  he  says : “ It  is  very  possible  that  Papias  meant 
in  both  cases  one  and  the  same  John,  and  repeated  his 
name  perhaps  on  account  of  his  peculiarly  close  contact 
with  him.  (See  above,  Dr.  Alexander’s  view.)  So  Ire- 


meus,  at  least,  seems  to  have  understood  him,  when  he 
calls  Papias  a disciple  of  the  apostle  John  (without  men- 
tioning any  presbyter  of  that  name)  and  friend  of  Poly- 
carp (.4  dv.  flier,  v,  33).  The  arguments  for  this  inter- 
pretation arc  the  following:  (1)  The  term  ‘presbyter’  is 
here  probably  not  an  official  title,  but  denotes  age,  in- 
cluding the  idea  of  venerableness,  as  also  Credner  sup- 
poses (p.  697),  and  as  may  be  inferred  from  2 John  1 
and  3 John  1,  and  from  the  usage  of  Irenams,  who  ap- 
plies tlx*,  same  term  to  his  master  Polvcarp  (A  dr.  liar. 
v,  30),  and  to  the  Koman  bishops  before  Soter  (v,  24). 
This  being  so,  we  cannot  conceive  how  a contemporary 
of  John,  bearing  the  same  name,  should  be  distinguished 
from  the  apostle  by  this  standing  title,  since  the  apostle 
himself  had  attained  an  unusual  age,  and  was  probably 
even  sixty  when  he  came  to  Asia  Minor.  (2)  Papias, 
in  the  same  passage,  styles  the  other  apostles  also  ‘pres- 
byters,’ the  ancients,  the  fathers;  and,  on  the  other 
hand,  calls  also  Aristion  and  John  (personal)  ‘disciples 
of  the  Lord.’  (3)  The  evangelist  designates  himself  as 
‘the  elder'  (2  John  1 and  3 John  1),  which  leads  us  to 
suppose  that  he  was  frequently  so  named  by  his  ‘little 
children,’  as  he  loves  to  call  his  readers  in  his  first  epis- 
tle. For  this  reason  also  it  would  have  been  altogether 
unsuitable,  and  could  only  have  created  confusion,  to 
denote  by  this  title  another  John,  who  lived  with  the 
apostle  and  under  him  in  Ephesus.  Credner  supposes, 
indeed,  that  these  two  epistles  came  not  from  the  apos- 
tle, but,  like  the  Apocalypse,  from  the  ‘presbyter  John’ 
in  question.  But  it  is  evident  at  first  sight  that  these 
epistles  are  far  more  akin,  even  in  their  language,  to 
the  first  epistle  than  to  the  Apocalypse  (comp.  2 John  4- 
7 with  1 John  ii,  7.  8 ; iv,  2,  3 ; 2 John  9 with  1 John  ii, 
27 ; iii,  9,  etc.).  This  is  De  Wette’s  reason  for  consid- 
ering them  genuine.  When  Credner  supposes  that  the 
presbyter  afterwards  accommodated  himself  to  the  apos- 
tle’s way  of  thinking  and  speaking,  he  makes  an  entire- 
ly arbitrary  assumption  which  he  himself  condemns  in 
pronouncing  a like  change  in  the  apostle  ‘altogether 
unnatural  and  inadmissible’  (p.  733).  (4)  The  Ephesian 
bishop  Polyerates,  of  the  2d  century,  in  his  letter  to 
Victor,  bishop  of  Eomc,  on  the  Paschal  controversy  (in 
Euseb.  v,  24),  mentions  but  one  John,  though  he  there 
enumerates  the  prydXa  <mnyfiVz  of  the  Asian  Church, 
Philip,  with  his  pious  daughters,  Polycarp,  Thraseas,  Sa- 
garis,  Papirius,  Mclito,  most  of  whom  were  not  so  im- 
portant  as  the  presbyter  John  must  have  been  if  he  were 
a personal  disciple  of  the  Lord,  and  the  author  of  the 
Apocalypse.  We  can  hardly  think  that  in  this  connect 
tion,  where  it  was  his  object  to  present  as  many  authors 
ties  as  possible  for  the  Asiatic  usage  respecting  the  feast, 
Polvcrates  would  have  passed  over  this  John  if  he  had 
known  anything  about  him,  and  if  his  tomb  could  have 
been  really  pointed  out  in  Ephesus,  as  the  later  Diony- 
sius and  Jerome  intimate.  Jerome,  however,  in  speak- 
ing of  this,  expressly  observes,  ‘Nonnulli  putant,  duas 
menmrias  ejusdem  Johannis  evangelistic  esse’  (lie  Fir. 
III.  c.  9) ; which,  again,  makes  this  whole  story  doubt- 
ful, ami  destroys  its  character  as  a historical  testimony 
in  favor  of  this  obscure  presbyter.” 

Ridiculous,  certainly,  is  the  argument  which  some 
have  advanced,  that  the  different  Johannean  epistles 
differ  so  much  in  style  that  they  cannot  possibly  be  as- 
cribed to  one  and  the  same  person.  On  this  argument 
Ebrard  ( Finleitung ) laid  particular  stress,  but  he  is  ably 
answered  by  Dr.  Tholuek  in  his  Glanhwiirdigkeit  dev 
evangel.  Geschiehte,  2d  ed.  p.  283.  From  the  rich  treas- 
ury of  his  reading  the  latter  draws  such  analogies  as  the 
“varietas  diction  is  Appulejana* the  difference  between 
the  Dialogus  de  Oratoribus  and  the  A nnales  of  Tacitus; 
between  the  Leges  and  the  earlier  dialogues  of  Plato; 
the  sermons  and  the  satires  of  Swift,  etc.  “ This  cata- 
logue,” says  Dr.  Seliaft’,  “ may  easily  be  increased  from 
the  history  of  modern  literature.  Think,  for  example, 
of  the  immense  distance  between  Schleiermacher’s  Re- 
den liber  die  Religion  and  his  Dinlektik;  Hegel's  Logik 
and  Aesthetik;  the  first  and  second  part  of  Gcithe’s/uwsO 


JOHN 


JOHN 

Carlyle’s  Life  of  Schiller  and  his  Latter-day  Pamphlets , I 
etc.”*  Corai).  also  Liddon,  Divinity  of  Christ,  p.  512  sq. 
See  John,  second  and  third  Episti.es  of. 

John,  Prester  ( Priest  John),  a supposed  Christian  | 
kins  ami  priest  of  a medieval  kingdom  in  the  interior 
of  Asia,  the  locality  of  which  is  vague  and  undefined.  | 
In  the  11th  and  12tli  centuries  the  Nestorian  missiona- 
ries penetrated  into  Eastern  Asia,  and  made  conversions 
among  the  Keraeit  or  Krit  Tartars,  which,  according  to 
the  earliest  reports,  are  said  to  have  included  the  khan 
or  sovereign  of  the  tribe.  Ung  (or  Ungh)  Khan,  who  re- 
sided at  Karakorum,  and  to  whom  the  afterwards  cele- 
brated Genghis  Khan  was  tributary.  This  name  the 
Syrian  missionaries  translated  by  analogy  with  their 
own  language,  converting  Uny  into  “ Jachanan”  or 
‘•John,”  and  rendering  Khan  bv  t;  priest.”  In  their  re- 
ports to  the  Christians  of  the  West,  accordingly,  their 
royal  convert  figured  as  at  once  a priest  and  the  sover- 
eign of  a rich  and  magnificent  kingdom.  Genghis 
Khan  having  thrown  off  his  allegiance,  a war  ensued, 
which  ended  in  the  defeat  and  death  of  Ung  Khan  in 
1202;  but  the  tales  of  his  piety  and  magnificence  long 
survived,  and  not  only  furnished  the  material  of  num- 
berless mediieval  legends  (which  may  be  read  in  Asse- 
mani’s  Bibliotheca  OHentulis,  III,  ii,  4*4),  but  supplied 
the  occasion  of  several  of  those  missionary  expeditions 
from  Western  Christendom  to  which  we  owe  almost  all 
our  knowledge  of  mediaeval  Eastern  geography . The 
reports  regarding  Ung  Khan,  carried  to  Europe  by  two 
Armenian  legates  in  1145  to  Eugene  III,  created  a most 
profound  impression;  and  the  letters  addressed  in  his 
name,  but  drawn  up  by  the  Nestorian  missionaries,  to 
the  pope,  to  the  kings  of  France  and  Portugal,  and  to 
the  Greek  emperor,  impressed  all  with  a lively  hope  of 
the  speedy  extension  of  the  Gospel  in  a region  hitherto 
regarded  as  hopelessly  lost  to  Christianity.  They  are 
printed  in  Assemani’s  Bibliotheca  Orientalis.  The  ear- 
liest mention  of  Prester  John  is  in  the  narrative  of  the 
Franciscan  father  John  Carpini,  who  was  sent  by  pope 
Innocent  IV  to  the  court  of  Rata  Khan  of  Kiptchak, 
the  grandson  of  Genghis  Khan.  Father  Carpini  sup- 
posed that  Prester  John’s  kingdom  lay  still  further  to 
the  east,  but  he  did  not  prosecute  the  search.  This  was 
reserved  for  a member  of  the  same  order,  father  llubru- 
quis,  who  was  sent  as  a missionary  into  Tartarv  by  St.  , 
U>uis,  and,  having  reached  the  camp  of  Rath  Khan,  was 
by  him  sent  forward  to  Karakorum,  the  seat  of  the 
supposed  Prester  John.  lie  failed,  however,  of  his  hope 
of  finding  such  a personage,  the  Khagan  of  Karakorum, 
Mnngft,  being  still  an  unbeliever;  and  his  intercourse 
with  the  Nestorian  missionaries  whom  he  found  estab- 
lished there  satisfied  him  that  the  accounts  yvere  griev- 
ously exaggerated.  Ilis  narrative,  which  is  printed  in 
Pure  lias's  Collection,  is  one  of  the  most  interesting 
among  those  of  mediaeval  travellers.  Under  the  same 
vague  notion  of  the  existence  of  a Christian  prince  and 
a Christian  kingdom  in  the  East,  the  Portuguese  sought 
for  traces  of  Prester  Joint  in  their  newly -acquired  In- 
dian territory  in  the  15th  century.  A similar  notion 
prevailed  as  to  the  Christian  kingdom  of  Abyssinia, 
yvliich,  in  the  hope  of  finding  Prester  John,  yvas*  visited 
so  late  as  the  reign  of  John  11  of  Portugal  ( 14*1-95)  by 
1 edro  ( ov Ilham  and  Alfonzo  di  Payva,  the  former  of 
yvhom  married  and  settled  in  the  country. — Chambers, 
Cyclop,  s.  v.  See  Gieseler’s  Kirchenyeschichte , 111,  iii, 
4:1 ; Ritter’s  Erdhnnde  von  Asien.  i,  2*5  sq.:  Schmidt, 
Forschunyen  im  Gvbieie  <1.  iilteren  Bildnm/syesch.  <L  Mon- 
yolen  and  Tubeter  (Petersb.  1*24  ),  p.  102. 

John  Pepper.  See  Gocii. 

John  ITngkns  Asinum.  See  John  of  Paris. 

John  Raitiu-ensis  or  Raitiienes,  i.  e.  of  Raithus 
or  Bait hu  (you  ,l*oV3oj'),hegumenos  or  abbot  of  a mon- 
astery at  Elim,  or  the  Seventy  Springs,  on  the  yvestern 
coast  of  the  peninsula  of  Mount  Sinai,  nourished  in  the 
Cth  century,  lie  is  celebrated  on  account  of  the  friend- 
ly relations  he  sustained  and  the  influence  he  exerted 


6 

over  John  the  Scholar,  or  John  Climaeus.  It  yvas  at 
the  desire  of  Raitliuensis  that  Climaeus  wrote  the  work 
KXipalZ  or  Scala  Parudisi,  from  which  he  derives  his 
name,  ami  to  yvhich  Raitliuensis  yvrote  a Commendatio 
and  Scholia.  The  ’EttiotoX;)  t ov  dyiov  'luxxrvov  to v 
t)yonpivov  too  'VaiSov,  Litterce  Joannis  Raithuensis , 
addressed  to  Climaeus,  requesting  him  to  undertake  the 
yvork,  and  the  ansyver  of  Climaeus  are  given  by  Raderus 
in  the  original  Greek,  yvitli  a Latin  version,  in  his  edi- 
tion of  the  yvorks  of  Climaeus  (Paris,  1633,  fol.).  This 
version  of  the  Litterce  of  Raitliuensis,  and  a Latin  ver- 
sion of  his  Commendatio  and  Scholia,  are  given  in  va- 
rious editions  of  the  Bibliotheca  Patrum:  the  Litterce  in 
vol.  iii,  edit.  Paris,  1575;  the  Litterce  and  Commendatio , 
vcl.  v,  edit.  Paris,  1589  and  1654;  the  Litterce.,  Epistola , 
Commemlatio,  anil  Scholia,  in  vol.  vi,  pt.  ii,  eil.  Cologne, 
1618,  and  vol.  x,  eil.  Lyme,  1677.  See  Eabricius,  Bill. 
Gr.  ix,  523-524;  Ittigius,  De  Biblioth.  Patrum. — Smith, 
Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Bioy.  ii,  601. 

John  of  Ravenna.  See  Nicholas  I ; Ravenna. 

John  the  Recluse.  See  John  Niciota. 

John  de  la  Rochelle,  a French  theologian,  yvas 
born  in  the  early  part  of  the  13tli  century,  probably  in 
the  city  of  La  Rochelle.  He  joined  the  Franciscans, 
and  studied  under  Alexander  de  Hales,  yvhom  he  suc- 
ceeded in  1238,  but  resigned  in  1253  in  favor  of  St.Ro- 
naventura.  lie  died  at  Paris  in  1271.  according  to  Luc 
Wadding.  John  de  la  Rochelle  yvas  a successful  teach- 
er, yet  his  yvorks  did  not  enjoy  much  renoyvn,  probably 
because  he  did  not  folloyv  the  mystical  tendency  of  the 
times.  Among  his  yvorks  yve  notice  commentaries  on  a 
number  of  the  books  of  the  Bible ; sermons,  preserved 
in  the  MS.  collections  of  divers  libraries,  chiefly  in  that 
of  Troyes,  France;  De  Anima,  MSS.  in  the  library  of 
St.  Victor;  and  he  is  also  considered  the  author  of  some 
other  yvorks,  but  on  doubtful  grounds.  He  is  especially 
deserving  of  notice  as  one  of  the  first,  if  not  the  first, 
yvlio  attempted  to  explain  Aristotle’s  nepi  Arvxyq,  a 
task  of  yvliich  he  ably  disposed.  Thomas  Aquinas  prob- 
ably availed  himself  of  this  yvork.  See  Cas.  (Judin,  De 
Script.  Eccles. ; Jlistoire  Lift,  de  la  France,  xix,  171 ; I». 
Ilaure'au,  De  la  Philosophie  Scolastique,  i,  475;  lloefer, 
A "our.  Bioy.  Generate,  xxvi,  548.  (J.  N.  P.) 

John  of  Rupescissa  or  Roquet aillade,  a French 
Franciscan,  yvho  flourished  near  the  middle  of  the  Nth 
century,  at  Aurillae,  in  Auvergne,  is  noted  for  his  severe 
denunciations  of  the  gross  immoralities  of  the  clergy  of 
the  Roman  Church  in  Iris  day.  lie  yvas  especially  op- 
posed to  the  court  at  Avignon,  and  hesitated  not  to 
brand  the  yvhole  papal  court  as  the  seat  of  a great 
yvhorcdom.  Popes  Clement  VI  and  Innocent  VI  im- 
prisoned him  on  account  of  his  continued  remonstrances 
and  prophesying,  but  even  yvhile  in  prison  he  wrote 
much  against  the  papal  court  and  the  clergy.  He  died 
yvhile  in  prison,  but  the  cause  of  his  death  is  not  knoyvii. 
His  yvorks  of  interest  are,  (1)  Vademecnm  in  tribula- 
tione  (in  Ed.  Broyvn’s  addition  to  Orturii  Gratii  fascic. 
rer.  expectandar.  et  fuyiendar.  London,  1690),yvlierein  he 
handles  the  French  clergy  yvitliout  gloves,  and  prophe- 
sies much  trouble  to  their  native  land  on  account  of 
their  sins: — (2)  A Commentary  on  the  prophecies  of  the 
hermit  Cyril  of  Mount  Carmel  and  of  abbot  Joachim 
(q.  v.\  See  Trithemius,  De  script.  Eccles.  c.  61 1 (in  Fa- 
brieius,  Bib.  Eccl.  pt.  ii,  p.  145) ; Wolfius,  Lectt.  memorab. 
cent,  xiv,  p.  623  sq. ; Fuhrmann,  llandtc.  der  Kirch  en- 
yesch.  ii,  4*2 ; Asclibacli,  Kireh.-Lex.  iii,  565.  (J.  H.W.) 

John  of  Salisbury,  an  eminent  English  prelate, 
yvas  born  at  Salisbury  (old  Sarum ) about  1116.  He 
yvas  first  educated  at  Oxford,  and  in  1136  yvent  to  France, 
yvhere  lie  continued  his  studies  under  Abelard,  and 
many  other  celebrated  French  divines  of  that  age. 
About  1151  be  returned  to  England,  and  yvas  appointed 
chaplain  of  Theobald,  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Sent 
| on  a mission  to  pope  Hadrian  IV  in  1156,  he  openly  ap- 
[ proaelied  the  latter  on  the  abuses  of  the  Church  and  of 
I the  papacy,  though  always  an  earnest  advocate  of  the 


JOHN 


977 


JOHN 


unitv  ancl  liberty  of  the  Church,  and  the  independence 
of  tne  episcopate  from  the  secidar  princes.  He  was  an 
intimate  friend  and  admirer  of  Thomas  ;i  Bccket,  whose 
cause  he  espoused  warmly,  and  whom  he  followed  into 
exile,  returning  only  to  England  with  him  in  1170,  and 
after  his  death  secured  his  canonization.  John  was 
called  Beeket’s  eye  and  arm.  In  1 17G  he  was  appointed 
bishop  of  Chartres,  and  died  about  1180.  II is  works, 
which  evince  positive  Realistic  tendencies,  and  bear  evi- 
dence of  fruitful  genius,  sound  understanding,  and  great 
erudition,  are,  Fo/icraticus  s.  de  nugis  curialimu  ct  vesti- 
giis philosophorum  (Leyden,  IG91)  (an  excellent  treatise 
on  the  employments,  duties,,  virtues,  and  vices  of  great 
men — a curious  and  valuable  monument  of  the  litera- 
ture of  John  of  Salisbury’s  time): — Metalogicus  (Leyd. 
1G10,  Am st.  1GG4),  an  exhibition  of  true  and  false  sci- 
ence;— Entheticus  de  dogm ate  philosophorum  (pub.  by 
Chr.  Petersen,  I Iamb.  1843) : — Vita  ac  Pussio  S.  Thomcc 
(a  Life  of  Thomas  a Beeket),  etc.  llis  collective  works 
have  been  published  by  J.  A.  Giles  (Lond.  1848,  5 vols. 
8vo).  Sec  II.  Reuter,  J.  von  Salisbury  (Berl.  1842);  J. 
Schmidt,  Joan  Pare.  Sarisb .,  etc.  (1838) ; Hist.  Lift,  de 
la  France , etc.,  xiv,  89  sq. ; Ritter,  Gcsch.  d.  Philos,  vii, 
G05;  Darling,  Cyclop.  Bibliogr.  s.  v.  See  Becket;  Pa- 
pacy. 

John  III.  the  patriarch,  surnamed  the  Scholar  (1), 
was  born  at  Sirimis,  near  Antioch,  towards  the  middle 
of  the  Gtli  century.  He  became  successively  attorney, 
then  presbyter  of  Antioch,  and  finally,  in  5G5,  patriarch 
of  Constantinople  under  Justinian  I.  He  died  in  577. 
He  prepared  a large  Collectio  canomnn  under  fifty  head- 
ings, which  became  authoritative  in  the  whole  Greek 
Church.  He  is  also  considered  as  the  author  of  a col- 
lection of  ecclesiastical  rules  and  regulations  under  the 
title  Nomocanon  (both  in  Justelli,  Biblioth.  juris  cuno- 
nici  [Paris,  1GG2],  ii,  499,  G03,  6G0).  He  is  also  said  to 
have  delivered  a dissertation  on  the  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity  which  involved  him  in  a controversy  with  the 
renowned  so-called  Tritheist  John  rhiloponus  (Phot. 
Cod.  75). 

John  the  Scholar  (2)  (Johannes  Sciiolarticus 
or  Climaccs),  a monk  of  the  latter  half  of  the  Gth  cen- 
tury, was  a zealous  partisan  of  monastic  life,  and  became 
ablxd  of  a convent  on  Mount  Sinai.  He  died  there 
about  GOG.  He  wrote  K\t/ui£  too  7rapavfi<ror,  an  as- 
cetic mystical  work  (Latin,  Scala  parodist,  Ambrosius, 
Venice,  1531,  etc.),  which  was  greatly  celebrated  and 
widely  circulated  among  Greek  monks  for  centuries  af- 
ter his  death  : — Liber  ad  religiosum  postorem,  qui  est  de 
officio  ccenobiarchm  (publ.  by  Mattli.  Rader,  1G0G).  A 
collection  of  his  works  in  Greek  and  Latin  has  been  pub- 
lished by  Matth.  Rader  (Paris,  1633). — Pierer,  Univers. 
Lex.  s.  v. 

John  Scotus  Erigena.  See  Scotus. 

John  of  ScYTiioroLis,  a Greek  ecclesiastical  w'riter, 
who  in  all  probability  flourished  in  the  latter  part  of 
the  5th  century  or  the  beginning  of  the  Gth,  wrote  a 
work  against  the  followers  of  Eutyclies  and  Dioscorus, 
entitled  Kara  tu>v  «7ro<rxi<m5i'  ti)q  hucXqmac,  Contra 
desertores  ecclesice.  It  was  divided  into  twelve  parts, 
and  was  undertaken  at  the  suggestion  of  a certain  prel- 
ate, one  Julianus,  in  reply  to  an  anonymous  Eutycliian 
writer,  who  had  published  a book  deceitfully  entitled 
Kara  Nforopiun’,  .1  d versus  Xestorium,  and  whom  Pho- 
tius  ( Bibl . Cod.  95,  107)  supposed  to  be  Basilius,  a pres- 
byter of  Cilicia.  This  Basilius  wrote  a reply  to  John 
in  very  abusive  style,  charging  him,  among  many  other 
things,  with  being  a Maniclnean,  and  with  restricting 
Lent  to  a period  of  three  weeks,  and  not  abstaining  from 
flesh  even  in  that  shortened  period.  Certain  Ilapa^i- 
GtiQ,  Scholia , to  the  works  of  the  pseudo  Dionysius  A re- 
opagita,  which  Usher  has  observed  to  be  mingled  in 
the  printed  editions  of  Dionysius  with  the  Scholia  of 
St.  Maximus,  have  been  ascribed  to  John  of  Scythopo- 
lis.  Anastasius  Bibliothecarius,  in  the  8th  century, 
made  a Latin  translation  of  these  mingled  scholia,  not 
IV.— (J  Q Q 


now  extant,  in  which  he  professed  to  distinguish  those 
of  Maximus  from  those  of  John  by  the  mark  of  a cross. 
Fabricius  {Bibl.  Gr.  vii,  9;  x,  707,  710)  identifies  the 
Scholia  of  John  writh  the  Commentarii  in  Dionysiim 
Areopagitam  cited  by  John  Cyparissiota  as  by  Diony- 
sius of  Alexandria.  See  Usher,  Dissert,  de  Scriptis  Di~ 
onys.  Areop.  suppositis.  p.  299,  subjoined  to  his  Jlistoria 
Dogmutica  tic  Scriptoris  Vernaculis,  etc.  (London,  1G89, 
4to) ; Cave,  Hist.  Lift,  i,  4GG. — Smith,  Diet,  of  Gr.  and 
Ilom.  Biog.  ii,  602. 

John  of  T alai A or  Talaida  (otherwise  Tabennisi- 
ota,  TalitwanioTijc,  from  the  monastery  of  Tahenna, 
near  Alexandria ; or  of  A lexandria,  from  his  patriarchal 
see;  or  from  the  offices  which  he  had  previously  held, 
eeconomus  \_oiKoi>opoQ~\  and  jiresbyter),  a celebrated  ec- 
clesiastic in  the  Eastern  Church,  was  one  of  the  dep- 
utation sent  by  Salofaciolus,  the  twenty-seventh  patri- 
arch of  Alexandria  (A.D.  4G0-482),  shortly  before  his 
decease,  to  the  emperor  Zeno,  to  secure  his  leave  for  a 
free  election  of  the  next  patriarch  from  among  the  de- 
fenders of  the  Council  of  Clialcedon  by  the  clergy  and 
laity  of  Alexandria.  " The  emperor,”  says  Neale  (Fast. 
Church  [ri lexamlS\,  ii,  18),  “received  the  deputies  gra- 
ciously, complied  with  their  request,  and  in  the  letter 
which  he  gave  them  by  way  of  reply  spolc  strongly  in 
favor  of  John."  Soon  after  the  return  of  John,  Timo- 
tlieus  Salofaciolus  died,  and  John  was  unanimously  elect- 
ed to  succeed  him,  but  was  almost  immediately  expelled 
from  his  see  by  order  of  the  emperor.  The  cause  of  his 
expulsion  is  differently  stated.  Liberatus  says  that  he 
was  expelled  mainly  through  the  jealousy  of  Acacius, 
patriarch  of  Constantinople,  to  whom,  on  different  occa- 
sions, he  had  failed  in  paying  due  attention.  According 
to  Evagrius,  who  quotes  Zacharias  as  his  authority,  lie 
was  detected  in  having  procured  his  own  election  by 
bribery,  and  had  broken  an  oath  which  he  had  taken 
before  Zeno  not  to  seek  for  himself  the  patriarchate. 
But  Neale  thinks  it  doubtful  whether  John  ever  took 
such  an  oath,  and  holds  that,  even  if  he  had,  he  can  see 
no  reason  for  the  harshness  with  which  he  was  treated, 
and  for  his  ejection  from  the  see,  so  long  as  it  was  fredv 
proffered  to  him  (which  seems  clear  from  the  unanimous 
elect ion).  The  true  reason  seems  to  be  John’s  careless 
delay  of  the  announcement  of  his  election  to  the  patri- 
arch of  Constantinople,  sending  the  message  by  Illus, 
who  was  then  in  Antioch,  instead  of  dispatching  a mes- 
senger direct,  as  he  had  done  in  the  case  of  Rome  and 
Antioch,  thereby  provoking  the  patriarch  of  Constanti- 
nople, also  his  selection  of  Illus  for  the  messenger,  when 
the  latter  was  then  the  object  of  jealousy  and  suspicion 
to  Zeno,  if  not  actually  in  rebellion  against  him.  John, 
expelled  from  Alexandria,  first  resorted  to  Illus,  then  to 
Antioch ; and  having,  through  Ulus’s  intervention,  ob- 
tained from  the  patriarch  of  Antioch  and  his  suffragans 
a synodical  letter  commending  him  to  pope  .Simplicius, 
departed  to  Rome  to  plead  his  cause  there  in  person. 
.Simplicius,  with  the  usual  papal  jealousy  of  the  patri- 
archs of  Constantinople,  took  the  side  of  John ; but  nei- 
ther the  exertions  of  Simplicius  nor  those  of  his  suc- 
cessor Felix  could  obtain  the  restoration  of  the  banished 
patriarch,  and  John  finally  accepted  from  Felix  the 
bishopric  of  Nola,  in  Campania,  which  he  held  several 
years,  and  at  last  died  peaceably  (the  precise  date  of  his 
decease  is  not  known).  John  (whom  Theoplianes  ex- 
tols for  his  piety  and  orthodoxy)  wrote  ITpoc-  PeXocioi' 
TUP  Td'/njg  (\-o\nyia,  Ad  Gelasium  Papam  Apologia , 
in  which  lie  anathematized  Pelagianism,  as  well  as  its 
defenders  Pelagias  and  Celcstius,  and  their  successor  Ju- 
lianus.  The  work,  which  is  noticed  by  Photius,  is  not 
extant.  See  Tillemont,  Mem.  vol.  xvi ; Cave,  H ist.  Lift. 
i,  445. — Smith,  Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Biog.  ii,  602;  Neale, 
Hist.  Fast.  Ch.  (.1  lex.)  ii,  18  sq.  (J . HAV.) 

John,  surnamed  the  Teuton,  from  his  nationality, 
abbot  of  St.Victor,was  a native  of  the  diocese  of  Treves. 
He  studied  at  Paris,  joined  the  canon  regulars  of  St. 

| Victor,  and  became  their  abbot  in  1203  He  was  one 


JOHN 


JOHN  978 


of  the  ablest  of  the  glossatores  (q.  v.)  on  canon  law,  and 
appears  to  have  exerted  great  influence  in  general  over 
the  ecclesiastical  affairs  of  his  time,  and  to  have  been  in 
great  favor  both  with  the  pope  and  with  the  king  of 
France.  He  died  at  Paris  Nov.  28,  1229.  lie  left 
thirty-seven  sermons,  which  are  preserved  among  the 
Mss’,  of  the  Imperial  Library  at  Paris.  (Two  Domin- 
ican monks  of  like  name  flourished  in  the  latter  half  of 
the  13th  and  the  first  half  of  the  14th  century.)  See 
( Ysaire  d’llcisterbah,  Illustr.  Mirac.  et  I/istoire  Memor. 
lib.  vi,  c.  12;  Jacques  de  Vitrv,  Hist.  Occidental,  c.  24; 
Hist.  JAtt.  de  la  France,  xviii,  67 ; Gallia  Christ,  vol.  x, 
col.  (173;  lloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvi,  547. 

John,  archbishop  of  Tuessalonica,  who  flourished 
in  the  7th  century,  is  noted  as  a stout  defender  of  the 
orthodox  faitli  against  the  Monothelites.  He  attended 
as  papal  legate  the  third  Constant inopolitan  (sixth 
oecumenical)  Council  (A.D.  f>80),  and  in  that  character 
subscribed  the  Acta  of  the  council  ( Concilia , vol.  vi,  col. 
107)8,  oil.  Labbe;  vol.  iii,  col.  1425,  ed.  llardouin ; vol.  xi, 
col.  (339,  ed.  Mansi).  The  time  of  liis  death  is  alto- 
gether uncertain.  He  wrote  (1)  Ei’e  rag  /ivpo<f>6povg 
yvva'iKag,  In  mulieres  ferentes  unguenta,  a discourse  or 
treatise  in  which  he  argues  that  there  is  no  contradic- 
tion in  the  several  accounts  of  the  resurrection  of  Christ 
given  by  the  four  evangelists.  This  piece  appears  to 
have  been  regarded  by  some  as  a work  of  Chrysostom, 
and  was  first  published  (but  from  a mutilated  and  cor- 
rupt text)  by  Savile  in  his  edition  of  Chrysostom  (v, 
710,  Eton.  1(310,  fob),  though  with  an  expression  of 
doubt  as  to  its  genuineness.  It  was  subsequently  print- 
ed more  correctly  in  the  Novum  A uctnrinm  of  Combefis 
(vol.  i,  Paris,  1648,  folio),  and  by  him  assigned  to  the 
right  author.  It  is  given  in  a mutilated  form  in  Mont- 
faucon’s  edition  of  Chrysostom  among  the  Spuria,  viii, 
17)9  ( Paris,  1718,  fol.),  or  in  viii,  816  of  the  8vo  reprint 
(Paris.  1839).  It  is  also  given  in  the  Bibliotheca  Pa- 
tram  of  (lallandius,  xiii,  185.  etc.  A Latin  version  is 
given  in  the  Bibliotheca  Pat  mm , vol.  xii  (Lyons,  1677)  : 
— (2)  A nyog,  Oratio,  of  which  a considerable  extract 
was  read  by  Nicolaus,  bishop  of  Cyzicus,  at.  the  second 
Nicene  (seventh  oecumenical)  Council,  and  is  printed 
in  the  Concilia,  vol.  vii,  cob  353,  ed.  Labbe ; vol.  iv,  cob 
292,  cd.  1 lardouin ; vol.  xiii,  cob  163,  ed.  Mansi ; and  by 
( lallandius  in  his  Bibliotheca  Put  rum,  xiii,  196.  See 
Cave,  Hist.  Lift,  i,  597;  Fabricius.  Bill.  Grcec.  x,  250. — 
Smith,  Diet.  Or.  and  Rom.  Bioy.  ii,  603. 

John  of  Tirrecremata.  See  Turrecremata. 

John  of  Wesel.  See  Wesel. 

J ohn  of  Wessel.  See  Wessel. 

John  I,  pope  of  Home,  a Tuscan  by  birth,  ascended 
the  papal  throne  Aug.  13.  523.  About  this  time  the 
bigoted  Eastern  emperor  Justus  11  had  issued  an  edict 
against  heretics  of  all  denominations,  commanding  them 
to  be  put  to  death  wherever  found  in  his  dominions; 
but,  as  it  was  principally  aimed  against  the  detested 
Mauiehieans,  all  went  well  until,  in  524,  the  emperor  is- 
sued another  edict,  this  time  against  the  Arians  of  Italy, 
i heir  patron  1 hcodoric,  king  of  the  ( )strogoths,  was  in- 
duced to  intercede  for  them  in  Byzantium,  and  he  des- 
patched an  embassy  for  this  purpose,  beaded  by  the 
orthodox  pope  John  himself,  who  had  thus  to  plead  a 
eause  for  which  he  had  no  sympathy.  The  latter  prom- 
is'd, in  undertaking  the  mission,  to  procure  the  rovoea- 
ti  >u  ol  the  edict,  and  in  this  lie  succeeded,  but,  failing 
t>  procure  also  the  emperor’s  permission  for  all  those 
who  had  forsaken  Ariauism  unwillingly  to  return  to 
their  former  faith,  and  Tbeodoric  fearing  that  the  whole 
work  on  the  part  of  the  pope  was  a piece  of  deception, 
and  that  the  Homans,  with  the  bishop  at  their  head, 
instead  of  seeking  relief  from  the  intolerance  of  Creek 
orthodoxy,  solicited  aid  against  the  Coths,  imprisoned  . 
the  pope  on  his  arrival  at  Havenna,  where  he  died.  May 
18,  <)26.  A Homan  tradition  reports,  not  without  some  ! 
complacency,  that  in  Constantinople  the  emperor  bowed 
down  be  I ore  the  bishop  of  Home,  and  that  at  high  mass  I 


the  scat  of  the  latter,  by  his  special  request,  was  raised 
above  that  of  the  patriarch;  seemingly,  of  course,  a 
concession  of  superiority  to  the  Homan  see.  John  is 
numbered  among  the  martyrs.  Two  letters  are  ascribed 
to  him  by  Baronins  and  others,  but  they  are  now  gener- 
ally rejected.  See  Bower,  Hist,  of  the  Popes,  ii,  312  sq. ; 
Hiddle,  Papacy,  i,  199. 

John  II,  Pope,  a Homan  by  birth,  surnamed  Mer- 
curius,  succeeded  Boniface  II  in  the  Roman  see  in  532, 
being  elected  by  the  clergy  and  the  people  of  Rome  after 
considerable  agitation  and  many  simoniaeal  practices, 
and  confirmed  by  king  Athalarie,  for  which  confirmation 
a certain  payment  was  fixed  by  an  edict  of  the  same 
king.  The  emperor  Justinian,  in  a letter  addressed  to 
him  shortly  after  his  accession,  after  earnest  assurances 
of  his  endeavor  to  unite  the  Western  and  Eastern 
churches,  makes  full  confession  of  superior  power  be- 
longing to  the  Roman  hierarchy,  designating  him  as 
“the  bead  of  the  holy  Church.”  The  only  other  im- 
portant events  in  liis  life  are  bis  decision  on  the  Trinity 
question  in  favor  of  Justinian  (q.v.)  [see  Accemet.eJ, 
and  in  the  case  of  the  bishop  of  Riez  (q.  v.).  He  died 
in. 535.  See  Bower,  Jlist.  of  the  Popes,  ii,  333  sq. ; Rid- 
dle, Papacy,  i,  203. 

J ohn  III,  Pope,  a native  of  Rome,  was  elected  to 
succeed  Pelagius  I in  560,  and  was  confirmed  by  the 
exarch  of  Ravenna  in  the  name  of  the  emperor  Justin- 
ian. Like  many  of  his  predecessors,  he  used  his  powers 
mainly  for  the  aggrandizement  of  the  IJoman  see.  He 
is  noted  for  his  interference  in  behalf  of  the  two  French 
bishops  of  Embrun  and  of  (lap,  who  had  been  deposed 
by  local  councils  for  improper  conduct..  Though  known 
to  be  guilty,  he  ordered  their  restoration,  which  (lon- 
tram,  the  Burgundian  king,  was  only  too  happy  to  en- 
force in  opposition  to  the  French  clergy.  But  the  Gal- 
lican  Church,  which  had  with  very  great  hesitancy 
permitted  the  restoration  of  the  guilty  men,  soon  proved 
them  to  be  unworthy  of  ecclesiastical  office,  and  a new 
French  council  confirmed  their  previous  deposition. 
John  died  in  574.  See  Riddle,  Papacy,  i,  210;  Bower, 
History  of  the  Popes , ii,  426  sq. 

J ohn  IV,  Pope,  a Dalmatian  by  birth,  was  conse- 
crated Dec.  25,  640.  He  displayed  great  zeal  in  found- 
ing convents  and  endowing  the  churches  of  Rome.  But 
lie  is  noted  especially  for  his  strife  against  his  Greek 
rival.  The  Mouothelite  creed  of  the  patriarcli  Sergius, 
promulgated  hv  the  emperor  Herodius  as  ticSumc,  was 
denounced  by  John  as  heresy,  and  condemned  by  a 
Roman  synod  A.D.  641.  John  IV  defended  Honorius 
from  the  charge  made  by  the  Eastern  Church  that  he 
was  guilty  of  the  Monothelite  heresy,  and  Eutyehius 
informs  ns  that,  before  his  death  (Oct.  12,  642),  the  em- 
peror Constans  gave  John  IV  the  promise  of  withdraw- 
ing the  i-icStoig,  but  the  controversy  continued  under  his 
successors.  See  Bower,  History  of  the  Pojies,  iii,  24  sq. ; 
Herzog,  Real- Fncyklop.  vi,  754. 

John  V,  Pope,  a native  of  Syria,  elevated  to  the 
papal  dignity  in  May  or  July,  685,  hardly  ever  left  the 
bed  during  the  short  time  of  bis  insignitieant  pontificate. 
The  authenticity  of  the  letters  assigned  to  him,  and  of 
the  hook  De  dignitate  pallii,  has  been  contested.  lie 
died  Aug.  2,  686. 

John  VI  and  VII,  Popes,  both  Greeks  by  birth, 
were  quite  insignificant  occupants  of  the  papal  throne. 
The  former  was  consecrated  October  10,  701,  and  buried 
January  10,  705.  He  was  defended  by  Roman  soldiers 
against  the  exarch  Theopliylaet,  who  was  ordered  to 
drive  him  from  the  apostolic  see.  In  a council  which 
he  held  at  Rome  he  acquitted  Wilfred,  archbishop  of 
York,  of  several  charges  brought  against  him  by  the 
English  clergy.  The  latter  (consecrated  March  1,  705, 
buried  Oct.  18,  707)  is  described  as  weak  and  spiritless. 
The  happiest  illustration  of  the  weakness  of  the  Roman 
see  at  this  time  is  afforded  us  in  the  action  of  this  pope, 
who  did  not  dare  to  venture  to  express  an  opinion  on 
the  Trullan  canon,  submitted  to  his  examination  by  the 


JOHN- 


979 


JOHN 


emperor  Justinian  II,  for  fear  of  giving  offence  to  some- 
body; and  we  do  not  wonder  that  an  able  ecclesiastical 
writer  of  our  day  (Butler,  in  his  Ch.  History,  i,  359)  says 
that  the  whole  period  from  Gregory  I to  Gregory  II 
“may  be  briefly  designated  as  that  in  which  the  popes 
were  under  subjection  to  the  emperors  of  the  East  and 
their  lieutenants,  the  exarchs  of  Ravenna.’’  See  the 
Vihe  in  Anastasins ; Bower,  History  of  the  Popes,  iii,  159 
sq.,  167  sq.;  Riddle,  Papacy,  i,  305  sq. 

John  VIII,  Pope  (styled  the  ninth  by  those  who 
believed  in  the  story  of  pope  Joan  [q.  v.],  whom  they 
style  John  IV//),  a native  of  Rome,  succeeded  Adrian 
II  Dec.  14,  872.  He  displayed  much  tact,  and  harbored 
great  schemes,  but  was  destitute  of  noble  motives,  and 
the  spirit  displayed  during  his  administration  is  in  keep- 
ing with  the  ideas  of  the  pseudo-Isidorian  collection,  to 
which  his  predecessor  Nicholas  I had  first  ventured  to 
appeal.  John’s  designs,  however,  found  but  a tardy  re- 
sponse in  the  little  minds  with  which  he  had  to  deal, 
and  the  prevalence  of  general  anarchy  was  not  more 
auspicious  to  their  execution.  The  pope,  as  well  as  the 
clergy,  in  the  strife  after  power,  actuated  only  by  world- 
ly ambition,  knew  no  other  arms  than  cunning  and  in- 
trigue, and  with  these  they  were  neither  able  to  control 
the  nule  powers  which  sapped  the  foundations  of  the 
Carlovingian  monarch}’,  nor  to  erect  on  its  ruins  the 
fabric  of  ecclesiastical  dominion.  When  Louis  II  died, 
875,  without  an  heir  to  his  land  and  crown,  Charles 
the  Bald  marched  hastily  into  Italy,  and  took  posses- 
sion of  the  Italian  dominions.  Then  he  proceeded  to 
Rome,  and  accepted  (Christmas,  875),  as  a boon  of  the 
chair  of  St.  Peter,  the  imperial  crown,  to  which  he  had 
no  lawful  claim.  Some  Church  annalists  claim  that 
the  two  then  entered  into  a compact  by  which  the  em- 
peror ceded  to  the  pope  the  absolute  and  independent 
government  of  Rome,  a confirmation  and  amplification 
of  Pepin’s  donation;  but  documentary  proof  (and  that 
of  an  ambiguous  kind)  can  be  deduced  only  for  the  sur- 
render of  Capua  (compare  Mansi,  Concil.  xvii,  10).  By 
this  alliance  not  much  was  directly  gained  by  either 
part}’,  for  Charles,  having  once  secured  his  coronation, 
cared  but  little  for  the  papal  interests;  yet  eventually 
the  manner  in  which  Charles  had  become  possessed  of 
the  empire  and  of  Italy  increased  very  materially  the 
papal  power,  especially  when,  in  a moment  of  fear  for  his 
throne,  Charles  the  Bald  suffered  the  pope  to  declare 
that  to  him  had  been  intrusted  the  imperial  diadem  by 
the  only  power  on  earth  that  could  claim  its  disposal — 
the  vicar  of  Rome.  The  emperor,  however,  failed  to 
protect  the  papal  dominions  from  the  attacks  of  the 
Saracens.  It  is  true  he  at  one  time  led  an  army  against 
the  infidels  (877),  but  his  sudden  death  cut  off  all  further 
hope  of  relief,  especially  after  Athanasius’s  (bishop-duke 
of  Naples)  double-handed  game  of  pleasing  the  pope  and 
forming  alliances  with  the  Saracens  became  known  at 
Rome,  and  we  do  not  wonder  that  the  plundering  of 
Campania  and  the  exactions  of  John  make  Milman  say 
of  the  pope’s  difficulties  from  this  score  that  “ the 
w'hole  pontificate  of  John  VIII  was  a long,  if  at  times 
interrupted,  agony  of  apprehension  lest  Rome  should  fall 
into  the  hands  of  the  unbeliever”  ( Latin  Christianity,  iii, 
84).  Much  more  precarious  became  the  condition  of 
the  Roman  pontiff  after  the  death  of  Charles  the  Bald, 
whose  son  and  successor  in  the  West  Frank  dominion, 
Louis  the  Hammerer,  engaged  in  warfare  with  the  Nor- 
mans, found  himself  neither  in  a position  to  be  an  aspi- 
rant for  the  imperial  crown,  nor  to  afford  assistance  to 
the  vicar  of  Christendom.  The  only  one  from  whom 
the  pope  really  received  any  assurances  of  succor  was 
Carloman,  who  at  this  time,  with  an  army  in  Upper  It- 
aly, and  just  recognised  as  king  at  Pavia,  was  aiming  at 
the  imperial  throne  against  the  French  line.  But,  finding 
the  pope  more  favorably  inclined  towards  the  French,  he 
suddenly  departed,  and  left  to  his  nobles  the  disposition 
of  the  pope’s  case.  Lambert,  duke  of  Spoleto,  and  Adel- 
bert,  count  of  Tuscany,  immediately  made  themselves 
masters  of  Rome,  and,  after  imprisoning  the  pope,  com- 


pelled the  clergy  and  the  nobles  ~o  swear  allegiance  to 
Carloman.  But  no  sooner  had  Rome  been  cleared  of  Car- 
loman’s  friends  than  the  pope  himself  set  out  for  France, 
determined  no  longer  to  conceal  his  desire  to  create  for 
himself  an  emperor  whom  all  the  world  should  recognise 
as  absolutely  indebted  for  the  crown  to  the  see  of  Rome 
only.  Arrived  in  France,  the  pope  made  Provence  his 
refuge.  Everywhere  he  was  received  with  great  re- 
spect, hut  especial  deference  was  paid  him  by  one  Boso, 
duke  of  Lombardy,  connected  with  the  imperial  house 
by  marriage,  possessed  of  great  influence  and  wealth, 
and  an  aspirant  for  the  imperial  purple.  He  succeeded 
in  winning  the  good  graces  of  the  Roman  pontiff,  and 
was  designated  for  the  vacant  throne  (comp,  the  letter  in 
Mansi,  xvii,  121).  Boso  was,  however,  only  made  king 
of  Burgundy,  as  Charles  the  Fat  proved  too  fast  for  the 
pope ; he  had  marched  with  a preponderating  force  into 
Italy,  and  the  pope,  foreseeing  that  the  prince  would 
not  be  likely  to  await  his  decision  as  to  the  rights  of 
the  Carlovingians  to  the  throne,  hastened  to  meet  him 
at  Ravenna,  and  reluctantly  (though  contriving  to  avoid 
the  appearance  of  constraint)  placed  the  crown  upon 
the  head  of  Charles  the  Fat.  But,  if  John  failed  in 
placing  upon  the  throne  his  own  favorite,  he  certainly 
succeeded  even  now  in  exalting,  as  he  had  done  under 
Charles  the  Bald,  the  pope  above  the  emperor.  To  this, 
as  well  as  to  his  efforts  to  make  the  clergy  independent 
of  the  temporal  princes,  may  be  ascribed  his  popularity 
as  a pope,  and  the  magnificent  reception  he  enjoyed  on 
his  visit  to  France.  “At  the  Council  of  Ravenna  in 
877,  and  again  at  another  at  Troyes,  which  he  convened 
in  the  following  year,  during  his  stay  in  France,  he  pro- 
pounded several  decrees,  to  the  astonishment  of  the 
bishops  themselves,  claiming  for  them  various  rights 
and  privileges  which  they  had  not  themselves  hitherto 
ventured  to  demand.  This  proceeding  produced  upon 
their  minds  the  greater  impression,  inasmuch  as  they 
had  long  been  desirous  of  advancing  their  social  posi- 
tion. Never  until  now  had  they  been  made  aware  of 
the  points  at  which  they  ought  to  aim  in  order  to  se- 
cure for  themselves  the  highest  rank  and  influence  in 
the  state,  and  the  pontiff  who  gave  them  powerful  as- 
sistance in  this  weighty  affair  could  not  but  be  highly 
popular  among  them.  It  was  perhaps  by  this  meas- 
urc  that  John  principally  contributed  to  the  strength- 
ening of  the  papacy  to  such  an  extent  that  it  remained 
without  any  considerable  loss  during  a long  succession 
of  unworthy,  or  impotent  and  inactive  popes,  who  occu- 
pied and  disgraced  the  see  during  the  troubles  which 
shook  Italy  for  more  than  half  a century”  (Riddle,  Pa- 
pacy,  ii,  31,  32).  The  controversy  with  the  Eastern 
Church  on  the  question  of  ecclesiastical  jurisdiction  over 
Bidgaria  was  continued  under  John.  At  first  he  in- 
clined to  favor  Photius  (q.  v.),  and  acknowledged  him 
as  patriarch  of  Constantinople,  but  he  was  afterwards 
obliged  to  excommunicate  him,  as  the  Latin  party  se- 
verely condemned  his  course.  Ffoulkes  ( Christendom's 
Division,  ii,  p.  vii)  says  that  the  fable  of  pope  Joan  must 
have  originated  with  the  Latin  party  of  this  time,  and 
that  it  was  aimed  against  John  VIII,  “not  because  his 
theology  was  defective,  or  his  life  immoral,  or  his  rule 
arbitrary,  but  solely  because  he  had  had  the  courage, 
the  manliness , to  appreciate  the  abilities  and  desire  to 
cultivate  the  friendship  of  the  great  patriarch  his  broth- 
er.” But  his  excommunication  of  Photius  was  by  no 
means  the  only  one  he  pronounced.  Indeed,  “no  pope 
was  more  prodigal  of  excommunion  than  John  VIII. 
Of  his  letters,  above  300  (found  in  Mansi,  Concilia,  vol. 
xvi),  it  is  remarkable  how  large  a proportion  threaten, 
inflict,  or  at  least  allude  to  this  last  exercise  of  sacerdo- 
tal power”  (Milman,  Lat.  Christianity , iii,  92  sq.).  John 
found  his  death,  as  the  .1  nnales  Fuldenses  relate,  through 
a conspiracy  of  his  own  curia.  The  assassins  first  tried 
poison;  when  this  did  not  operate  quick  enough,  they 
slew  him  with  a hammer.  Dec.  15,  882.  See  Milman, 
Lat . Christ,  bk.  v,  ch.  iii ; Bower,  History  of  the  Popes,  v, 
30  sq. ; Riddle,  Papacy,  ii,  27  sq. ; Reichel,  Pom.  See  in 


JO  IIX 


980 


JOHN 


the  Middle  .1  y es,  p.  109  sq. ; Gieseler,  Eecles.  IJist.  ii,  347 ; 
Giesebrecht,  Cesch.  der  deutseken  Kaiserzeit,  5,  139  sq.; 

I lc  rzotr,  Peal-Kncyklop.  vi,  754 ; Muratori,  Scriptt.  iii,  pt. 

i,  ii.  (J.u.w.) 

John  IX,  Popp,  a Benedictine  of  Tivoli,  was  con- 
secrated to  the  pontifical  office  June,  £98.  He  held  two 
councils,  one  at  St.  Peter's,  where  the  wrong  done  to  his 
badlv-abused  predecessor  Formosus  was  redressed;  the 
other  at  Kavenna.  which  passed  an  act  for  the  better 
protection  of  Church  property  against  thieves  and  in- 
cendiaries. John  displayed  an  honest  zeal  in  defending 
the  rights  and  regulating  the  discipline  of  the  Church. 

II  is  rival  for  the  papal  throne,  Sergius  (q.  v.),  he  suc- 
cessfully combated,  and,  by  authority  of  a council  he 
had  called,  excommunicated  him,  with  several  other  ec- 
clesiastical accessories.  John  died  July,  900.  On  his 
life,  see  Muratori,  vol.  iii,  pt.  ii;  on  the  synods,  Mansi, 
vol.  xviii.  See  also  Milman,  Latin  Christianity,  iii,  112 
sip ; Power,  History  of  the  Popes,  v,  77  sq. 

John  X,  Pope,  according  to  Liutpraml  (discredited 
by  Milmau.  Latin  Christianity,  iii,  103),  owed  his  pro- 
motion in  ecclesiastical  offices  to  the  dissolute  Theodora 
(q.  v.),  who,  attracted  by  his  handsome  figure,  made 
him  successively  archbishop  of  Bologna,  Kavenna,  and 
finally  pope  (May  15,  914).  The  profligacy  of  his  times, 
especially  in  Kome,  surpassed  that  of  the  most  degener- 
ate period  of  paganism.  The  popes  were  merely  the 
contemptible  creatures  of  the  Roman  nobility.  But,  if 
the  archbishop  of  Ravenna  was  not  a fit  example  of  pi- 
ety or  holiness  to  be  selected  for  the  spiritual  head  of 
Christendom,  “ho  appears,”  says  Milman  ( Latin  Chris- 
tianity, iii,  ltil),  “to  have  been  highly  qualified  for  the 
secular  part  of  his  office.”  lie  was  a man  of  ability  and 
daring,  eminently  needed  at  this  juncture  to  save  Rome 
from  becoming  the  prey  of  Mohammedan  conquest. 
The  Saracens  from  Africa,  who  had  landed  in  Italy  and 
fortified  themselves  near  the  banks  of  the  Liris,  had 
made  frequent  irruptions  into  the  Roman  territory.  At 
first  John  contented  himself  with  inciting  the  neighbor- 
ing dukes  to  come  to  his  defence;  but,  finding  the  aid  of 
the  two  emperors  necessary  to  combat  successfully  the 
Mohammedans,  he  crowned  Berenger  emperor  of  the 
\\  est,  March  24,  91(5,  and,  alter  having  united  all  forces 
previously  at  his  command  with  Berenger  and  the 
dukes  of  Beuevento  and  Naples,  he  marciied  in  person 
against  them,  and  completely  routed  and  exterminated  1 
them.  After  a reign  of  fourteen  years,  this  powerful 
prelate  of  Rome  came  to  a miserable  end  by  the  legiti- 
mate. consequences  of  the  same  vices  that  had  been  in- 
strumental in  raising  him  to  his  high  dignity.  Maro- 
zia,  the  daughter  of  Theodora,  anxious  to  secure  for 
lier.Ncll  and  her  lover  the  government  of  Rome,  and  find-  j 
iug  John  too  much  in  their  way,  surprised  him  in  the 
Lntcrnn  palace,  and  thrust  him  into  a prison,  where, 
some  months  after,  he  died,  either  of  want  or  by  some 
more  summary  means  ( A.D.  929).  ( bmp.  Bower,  Hist, 

o/  /h,  Copes,  v,  90  sq. . Ilbflcr,  Die  deutschen  Piibste,  i,  18; 
.Milman,  Lat.  Christ,  iii,  158  sq.  (.1. 11.4V.) 

John  XI,  I’opc,  a natural  son  of  Marozia,  and,  in  all 
probability,  of  pope  Sergius  III,  was  seated  on  St.  Pe- 
ters chair  bv  bis  mother,  in  whose  hands  rested  at  this 
time  (9.51)  the  power  to  supply  any  vacancies  in  the 
papal  chair.  (>l  course  spiritual  government  was  by, 
such  people  not  in  consideration;  in  fact,  Rome  was 
now  by  all  ('hristendom  detested  like  a pestiferous 
swamp.  “Marozia,  not  content  with  having  been  the 
wife  ol  a marquis,  the  wife  of  a wealthv  mid  powerful 1 
duke  ol  liseauy.  perhai  •*  the  mistress  of  one,  certainlv  I 
the  mother  of  another  pope,  looked  still  higher  in  her 
ustlul  ambition;  she  must  wed  a monarch.  To  the 
kmg  ol  Italy  her  hand  was  offered,  and  bv  him  accepted, 
'•‘it,  .1  the  Romans  had  brooked  the  rule  of  a Roman 
"oman,  they  would  not  so  readily  consent  for  her  para- 
mour. * foreigner,  to  rule  over  them,  and,  headed  bv 
. laro/.ia  s own  son  Alberic,  the  nobles  put  an  end  to  the 
govirnment  of  Marozia  (and  Hugh  of  Provence)  and  of 


! pope  John  XI  by  expelling  the  former  and  imprisoning 
j the  latter,  who  died  of  poison,  as  is  generally  supposed, 
in  January,  93(5.  .Sec  Milman,  Lat.  Christ,  iii,  165  sq.; 

I Du  Chcsne,  Hist,  des  Papes,  ii,  4G0 ; Aschbach,  Kirchen- 
1 Lex.  iii,  518 ; Bower,  Hist,  of  the  Popes,  v,  96  sq. 

John  XII,  Pope,  a son  of  Alberic,  and  grandson  of 
j the  profligate  and  ambitious  Marozia,  whose  vices  he 
seems  to  have  inherited,  succeeded  to  the  dignity  of 
Roman  patrician  upon  the  death  of  his  father  Alberic, 
and  in  November,  955,  after  the  death  of  Agapetus,  was 
elevated  to  the  papal  see,  though  only  about  sixteen 
years  old.  His  own  name  was  Octavianus,  but  as  pope 
lie  took  that  of  John  XII,  thus  inaugurating  the  prac- 
tice which  has  ever  since  been  followed  by  the  popes 
of  assuming  a pontifical  name.  Ambitious  to  extend 
the  boundaries  of  the  States  of  the  Church,  he  soon 
involved  himself  in  a disastrous  war  with  Berenger 
II,  himself  full  of  ambition,  and  anxious  to  become 
master  of  Rome.  In  this  most  extreme  hour  of  need 
the  pope  hesitated  not  to  beseech  help  from  one  whom 
he  had  formerly  declined  to  receive  as  worthy  of  the 
imperial  crown,  the  emperor  Otho  I.  Daring  and  in- 
domitable as  was  the  spirit  of  Otho  I,  he  was  no  sooner 
asked  by  Rome  than  we  find  him  crossing  the  Alps 
with  a large  army,  and,  having  entered  Rome,  he  secured 
to  the  pope  not  only  personal  safety,  but  also  confirm- 
ed his  title  to  the  States  of  the  Church.  The  extent 
of  these  promises,  however,  has  been  subject  to  contro- 
versy, and  it  is  not  without  a reason  that  the  Vatican 
record,  by  which  Pepin’s  donation  was  confirmed  and 
enlarged,  is  withheld  from  critical  scrutiny.  See  Pa- 
pacy. At  Pavia,  already,  Otho  had  been  crowned  king 
of  Italy,  here,  at  the  Eternal  City,  he  received  from  the 
pope  himself  the  imperial  diadem.  “Never  did  a more 
important  event  in  history  take  place,  making  less  im- 
pression on  those  who  witnessed  it,  and  less  commemo- 
rated by  subsequent  historians,  than  the  coronation  of 
Otho  I at  Rome  in  the  year  962.  By  the  coronation  of 
Charles  162  years  earlier  the  first  foundations  had  been 
laid  for  the  empire;  by  the  coronation  of  Otho  that  em- 
pire itself  was  founded  afresh,  and  from  that  time  for- 
wards it  had  an  uninterrupted  existence”  (Reichel.  Po- 
rn an  Pee  in  the  Middle  A yes,  p.  124).  For  a short  period 
the  spiritual  and  temporal  beads  of  Christendom  seemed 
to  be  happily  united,  but  the  fickle  John,  influenced 
either  by  mistrust  or  jealousy,  soon  again  interrupted 
that  happy  concord  by  concocting  anew  intrigues  with 
Alberia,  the  son  of  Berenger.  Rumors  of  the  treacher- 
ous conduct  of  John  reached  the  ears  of  Otho  I,  but  the 
noble  German  would  hardly  believe  the  reports  until 
some  trustworthy  officers  whom  he  had  hastily  dis- 
patched to  Italy  pronounced  them  true.  The  profligacy 
and  vices  of  the  pope  Avere  also  reported  to  Otho  I,  and 
the  latter  determined  to  return  to  Rome  and  depose  the 
vicar,  if  found  guilty  of  the  charges  preferred  against 
him.  A council  composed  of  the  first  ecclesiastics  of 
Germany,  France,  and  Italy  was  quickly  called  by  Otho 
I,  be  himself  presiding,  and  the  vicar  of  Christ,  accused 
of  the  crimes  of  murder,  adultery,  and  perjury,  was  sum- 
moned to  appear  in  defence.  Failing  to  comply  with 
the  emperor’s  request,  judgment  was  pronounced,  and 
be  was  deposed  and  excommunicated  Dec.  4,  963,  and 
Leo  VIII  (q.v.)  declared  his  successor.  Hardly  had  the 
emperor  left  Rome  when  John,  supported  by  the  Roman 
nobility,  returned,  convened  another  synod  at  St.  Pe- 
ter’s, and  caused  it  to  rescind  the  resolutions  of  the  for- 
mer one.  Otho  I,  informed  of  these  outrages,  was  pre- 
paring for  a return  to  Rome  for  the  third  time,  when 
John  suddenly  died  of  apoplexy  while  he  was  engaged 
in  an  adulterous  intrigue,  May  14,  964.  “lie  was  a 
man  of  most  licentious  habits,  associating  with  women 
of  every  station,  and  filling  the  Lateran  with  the  noisy 
profanity  of  a brothel.”  Panvinius,  in  a note  to  Plati- 
ua’s  account  of  pope  Joan,  suggests  that  the  licentious- 
ness of  John  XII.  who,  among  his  numerous  mistresses, 
had  one  called  Joan,  who  exercised  the  chief  influence 
at  Rome  during  his  pontificate,  may  have  given  rise  to 


JOHN 


981 


JOHN 


the  story  of  “pope  Joan.”  Comp.  Luitprand,  IJistoria 
Ottonis , in  Monum.  Germ.  Script,  vol.  iii ; Milman,  Lat. 
Christ,  iii,  175  sq. ; Neander,  Ch.  History ; Gieseler,  Ch. 
Ilist.  ii,  350;  Reicliel,  See  of  Rome  in  the  Middle  Ayes , 
p.  121  sq. ; Riddle,  Papacy , ii,  39  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

John  XIII,  Pope,  who  was  made  such  A.D.  9G5, 
was  of  noble  descent,  and  held,  previous  to  his  election, 
the  bishopric  of  Narni.  Provoking  the  wrath  of  the 
Roman  nobility  on  account  of  his  severity,  and  being 
a favorite  of  the  imperial  party,  they  instigated  a riot 
against  him,  and  finally  secured  him  as  prisoner.  The 
pope,  however,  effected  his  escape,  and  returned  to  the 
city  about  a year  after,  when  the  emperor  himself  made 
his  appearance,  visiting  the  disorderly  factions  of  the 
city  with  unmitigated  severity.  After  the  appointment 
of  a prefect  as  representative  of  the  imperial  power,  Otho 
the  Great  went  to  Ravenna,  followed  by  the  pope.  Here 
a great  and  influential  council  was  held,  Easter,  967, 
ami  fresh  guarantees  offered  to  the  pontifical  chair  on 
all  the  territory  to  which  it  had  ever  been  entitled,  in- 
cluding Ravenna.  In  return  for  these  favors,  John 
crowned  the  younger  Otho  (afterwards  Otho  II)  as  em- 
peror, and  associate  king  of  Germany;  also  his  wife 
Theopliania,  the  daughter  of  the  Greek  emperor.  He 
also  evinced  his  gratefulness  by  establishing,  at  the  em- 
peror’s expressed  desire,  a mission  among  the  north- 
eastern Slavonians.  John  died  in  972.  His  few  letters 
are  found  in  Mansi,  Concil.  Suppl.  i,  1142,  and  Harduin, 
Concil.  vi,  pt.  i,  G39.  See  Pagi,  Brer.  Pontif.  R.  ii,  233 
sq.;  Asclibach, Kircken-Lex.  iii,  520 ; Herzog,  Real-En- 
cyklop.  vi,  757. 

John  XIV,  Pope,  who  was,  previous  to  his  eleva- 
tion, Peter,  bishop  of  Pavia,  and  archchancellor  of  the 
emperor,  was  elected  pope  through  the  influence  of  Otho 
II  in  November  or  December,  983,  in  place  of  Bon- 
iface VII  (q.  v.).  Unfortunately,  however,  his  patron 
died  at  Rome  December  7 of  the  same  year,  and  the  ex- 
pope, encouraged  by  the  anti-empirical  party,  ventured 
to  return  the  following  spring  (April,  984)  from  Con- 
stantinople, whither  he  had  fled,  and  proving  sufficient- 
ly strong  to  overcome  John,  his  person  was  secured,  and 
he  was  imprisoned  in  the  Castle  del  Angelo,  where  he 
was  either  poisoned  or  starved  to  death.  See  Asclibach, 
Kirehen-Lexikon,  iii,  520. 

John  XV,  Pope,  who  began  his  inglorious  reign 
in  September,  985,  was  in  reality  only  the  puppet  of 
Creseentius,  the  true  governor  of  Rome,  for  he  presided 
and  ruled  at  the  Castle  del  Angelo  as  patricius.  At 
one  time  John  fled  to  Tuscany,  but  at  the  interven-  , 
tion  of  Otho  III  he  was  afterwards  permitted  to  return  ■ 
and  to  live  in  the  Lateran,  but  he  remained  destitute  of  j 
all  authority.  By  way  of  compensation  for  his  lack  of  ! 
power,  he  enriched  himself  and  his  relatives  with  the  ; 
revenues  of  the  Church.  Concerning  the  dispute  about 
the  bishopric  of  Blieims,  see  Sylvester  II.  He  died  in 
April,  996. 

Some  believe  that  another  John,  son  of  the  Roman 
Rnpertus,  was  the  fifteenth  pontiff  under  the  name  of 
John,  anil  that  the  present  John  was  the  sixteenth  pope 
of  that  name,  holding  that  he  was  pope  four  months  af- 
ter the  murder  of  Boniface  VIII ; but  this  is  a very  du- 
bious statement,  and  is  wholly  denied  by  modern  critics. 
Comp.  Willman’s  Jahrhucher  des  deutsehen  Reichs  unter 
Otto  III,  p.  208,  212;  Aschbach,  Kirchen-Lex.  iii,  520; 
Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  757. 

John  XVI  (or  XVII),  Pope,  a native  of  Greece,  a 
Calabrian  and  bishop  of  Piacenza,  was  appointed  in  997 
by  Creseentius,  in  opposition  to  Gregory  V;  but  when 
Otho  III,  in  February,  998,  brought  Gregory  Y back  to  j 
Rome,  he  imprisoned,  mutilated,  and  ill  treated  John  j 
most  shamefully,  and  put  to  death  Creseentius  and  his 
partisans.  See  Gregory  V.  Though  a rival  pope,  and 
in  office  only  ten  months,  John  is  generally  numbered  j 
in  the  series  of  the  popes. 

John  XVII  (or  XVIII),  Pope,  succeeded  Sylves- 
ter II  in  1003,  and  died  four  months  after  his  election.  | 


John  XVIII  (or  XIX,  with  the  surname  Fasa- 
nus ),  Pope,  succeeded  the  preceding,  and  died  about 
1009.  The  history  of  the  popes  during  this  period  is 
very  obscure,  and  the  chronology  confused.  lie  seems 
to  have  been  on  a good  footing  with  the  Greek  Church, 
for  his  name  found  a place  in  the  great  book  of  the  Con- 
stantinopolitan  Church.  See  Aschbach,  Kirchen-Lex. 
iii,  521. 

John  XIX  (or  XX),  Pope,  son  of  count  Gregory 
of  Tuscany,  procured  the  papal  throne  by  violence  and 
bribery  after  the  decease  of  his  brother  Benedict.  VIII, 
in  the  year  1024,  and  died  in  1034.  He  crowned  the 
emperor  Conrad,  but  is  especially  noted  for  his  imbecil- 
ity and  simoniacal  inclinations.  The  latter  so  much 
controlled  him  that  he  came  very  near  disposing  of  the 
Roman  supremacy  over  the  Eastern  Church  for  a pecu- 
niary consideration. 

John  XX.  See  John  XXI. 

J ohn  XXI  (who  should  really  have  been  counted 
XX),  Pope  (whose  true  name  was  Petrus  Juliani,  car- 
dinal bishop  ofTusculum,  a native  of  Lisbon),  was  elect- 
ed Sept.  13, 127G.  He  was  a man  of  learning  and  hon- 
est intentions,  but  weak,  and  unable  to  carry  out  any 
honest  designs.  Whether  he  is  identical  with  Petrus 
Hispanns,  the  writer  of  many  medical  and  philosophical 
works,  is  not  certain.  Ilis  efforts  to  unite  the  European 
powers  for  a crusade  were  unsuccessful.  It  is  said  that 
lie  found  his  death  May  1G,  1277,  at  Viterbo,  by  the 
falling  of  a ceiling.  See  Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vi,  758. 

John  XXII,  Pope,  one  of  the  most  celebrated  of  the 
pontiffs  of  Avignon,  whose  family  name  was  James  de 
Cahors,  was  elected  pope  in  1316,  on  the  death  of  Clem- 
ent V.  Attempting  to  carry  out.  in  very  altered  circum- 
stances, the  vast  and  comprehensive  policy  of  Gregory 
VII  and  Innocent  III,  John  interposed  his  authority  in 
the  contest  for  the  imperial  crown  in  Germany  between 
Louis  of  Bavaria  and  Frederick  of  Austria,  by  not  only 
espousing  the  cause  of  the  latter,  but  even  excommu- 
nicating his  rival.  Public  opinion,  however,  and  the 
political  relations  of  the  papacy  founded  upon  it,  had 
already  begun  to  change.  The  people  of  Germany  op- 
posed this  policy,  and  encouraged  the  Diet  of  Frank- 
furt to  ignore  the  papal  action,  and  it  was  by  this  body 
declared  that  the  imperial  authority  depended  upon 
God  alone,  and  that  the  pope  had  no  temporal  author- 
ity, direct  or  indirect,  within  the  empire.  A long  con- 
test ensued,  which  resulted  in  his  deposition.  (.See  be- 
low.) In  Italy  also  lie  experienced  much  trouble. 
The  Guelplis  or  papal  party,  led  by  Robert,  king  of 
Naples,  defeated  the  Ghibellines,  and  the  pope  excom- 
municated Matteo  Visconti,  the  great  leader  of  that 
party,  and  likewise  Frederick,  king  of  Sicily.  Between 
Guelplis  and  Ghibellines,  Italy  was  at  that  time  in  a 
dreadful  state  of  confusion.  The  pope  preached  a cru- 
sade against  Visconti,  Cane  della  Seala,  and  the  Este, 
as  heretics.  Robert,  with  the  assistance  of  the  pope, 
aspired  to  the  dominion  of  all  Italy,  and  the  pope  sent  a 
legate,  who,  at  the  head  of  an  army,  assisted  Robert  and 
the  other  Guelplis  against  the  Ghibellines  of  Lombardy. 
But  the  Ghibellines  had  clever  leaders;  Castruccio  Cas- 
tracani,  Cane  della  Seala,  and  the  Visconti  kept  the  fate 
of  the  war  in  suspense  until  Louis  of  Bavaria  sent 
troops  to  their  assistance.  In  1327  Louis  finally  came 
himself  to  Italy,  and,  after  being  crowned  at  Milan  with 
the  iron  crown,  proceeded  to  Rome,  where  the  people 
roused  in  his  favor,  drove  away  the  papal  legate,  and 
caused  Louis  to  be  crowned  emperor  in  St.  Peter’s  by  the 
bishops  of  Venice  and  of  Aleria.  After  the  coronation, 
Louis  held  an  assembly  in  the  square  before  the  church, 
in  which  he  summoned  John  under  his  original  name, 
James  of  Cahors,  to  appear  to  answer  the  charges  of 
heresy  and  high  treason  against  him.  After  this  mock 
citation,  the  emperor  proceeded  to  depose  the  pope,  and 
to  appoint  in  his  stead  Peter  de  Corvara,  a monk  of 
Abruzzo,  who  assumed  the  name  of  Nicholas  V.  Louis 
also  proclaimed  a law,  which  was  sanctioned  by  the  peo- 


JOHN 


982 


JOHN’S,  EVE  OF  ST. 


pie  of  Home,  to  the  effect  that  the  pope  should  reside  at 
Home,  and,  if  absent  more  than  three  months,  should  be 
considered  as  deposed.  These  measures,  however,  were 
attended  with  little  residt.  Louis  returned  to  Germany, 
and  the  Guclphic  predominance  at  Home  was  restored, 
the  papal  representative  resuming  his  authority.  But 
John  XXII  never  personally  visited  Home,  having  died 
at  Avignon  in  1334,  when' he  had  accumulated  in  his 
coffers  The  enormous  sum  of  18, 1)00, 000  florins  of  gold. 
John  is  renowned  in  theological  history  as  the  author  of 
that  portion  of  the  canon  law  called  the  Extrnvagantes , 
and  also  for  the  singular  opinion  he  entertained  that  the 
just  will  not  be  admitted  to  the  beatitie  vision  until 
after  the  general  resurrection.  This  opinion  he  was 
obliged  formally  to  retract  before  his  death  (see  Reiehel, 
Homan  See  in  the  Ml  Idle  Ages , p.  421).  Under  Ins  pon- 
tificate the  clergy  and  people  of  the  towns  were  deprived 
of  the  right  of  electing  their  bishops,  which  right  lie 
reserved  to  himself  on  payment  of  certain  fees  by  the 
person  elected.  He  was  especially  rapacious  in  the  col- 
lection of  the  Annates,  or  First  Fruits.  See  Bower,  IJis- 
tory  of  the  Popes,  vi,  413  sq.;  Labbe,  xv,  147 ; English 
Cyclopaedia,  s.  v. 

John  XXIII,  Pope,  a native  of  Naples,  and  previ- 
ously to  his  election  known  as  cardinal  Cosset,  succeeded 
Alexander  V in  1410.  A man  of  great  talents,  hut 
worthless  in  character,  his  reputation  as  cardinal  under 
his  predecessor  is  by  no  means  enviable.  Indeed,  he  is 
accused  of  having  poisoned  Alexander  V (q.  v.).  As  a 
pope,  he  supported  the  claims  of  Louis  of  Anjou  against 
Ladislaus,  king  of  Naples;  but  Ladislaus,  having  de- 
feated his  rival  in  battle,  advanced  to  Home,  and  obliged 
John  to  flee  to  Florence.  He  then  preached  a cru- 
sade against  Ladislaus,  which  gave  occasion  to  denun- 
ciations and  invectives  from  John  lluss.  Meantime 
the  great  schism  continued,  and  Gregory,  styled  XII, 
and  Benedict,  antipopes,  divided  with  John  the  homage 
of  the  Christian  states.  In  his  exile,  wishing  to  secure 
the  favor  of  the  emperor,  he  proposed  to  Sigismund  the 
convocation  of  a general  council  to  restore  peace  to  the 
t liiircli,  and  Sigismund  fixed  on  the  city  of  Constance 
as  the  place  of  assembly.  ( >n  hearing  of  the  death  of 
Ladislaus,  by  which  event  Home  became  again  open  to 
him,  John  repented  of  what  he  had  proposed,  but  was 
obliged  to  comply  with  the  general  wish  by  repairing 
to  Constance.  By  this  council  (see  vol.  ii,  p^  486)  John 
was  forced  to  drop  the  papal  tiara;  hut  soon  after,  by 
the  assistance  of  Frederick  of  Austria,  lie  resumed  his 
authority  by  ordering  the  council  to  dissolve.  This 
provoked  the  question  whether  the  pope  is  the  supreme 
authority  in  the  Church,  and  the  fourth  and  fifth  ses- 
sions decided  “that  the.  General  Council,  once  assem- 
bled, is  superior  to  the  pope,  and  can  receive  no  orders 
from  him.”  A formal  process  was  now  instituted  against 
Jolm;  sixty  charges  were  laid  against  him,  and  he  was 
finally  deposed  on  May  29, 1415,  and  given  into  the  cus- 
tody „f  the  elector  palatine.  After  the  election  of  Mar- 
tm  v ,ll,d  the  termination  of  the  Council  of  Constance, 
John,  now  again  Baltha/.ar  Cossa,  escaped  from  Ger- 
many, and  made  his  submission  to  the  new  pope,  who 
treated  him  kindly,  and  gave  him  the  first  rank  among 
the  cardinals.  lie  died  soon  after,  Nov.  22,  1419,  at 
Florence.  The  name  of  Jolm,  which  most  of  those  who 
bore  it  disgraced,  either  by  debauchery,  simony,  or  other 


John  (Sr.),  Christians  of.  See  Bahians. 

Johns  (St.)  Day,  a festival  to  commemorate  the 
nativity  of  John  the  Baptist.  It  was  observed  as  early 
as  the  1th  century.  The  birth  of  J„h„  is  known  to 
ha\  e preceded  that  of  Jesus  Christ  six  months,  and  June 
* i is  therefore  the  day  fixed  upon  for  tills  festival  Au- 
gustine lmd  commented  upon  the  peculiarity  of  observ- 
ing ins  birthday  rather  than  Ids  martyrdom,  ami  the 


Church  of  Home  seems  to  have  acted  on  this  suggestion, 
for  it  set  aside  also  a day,  namely,  August  29,  in  com- 
memoration of  his  beheading;  but  both  his  birth  and 
martyrdom  are  celebrated  on  the  same  day  in  the  ser- 
vice "of  the  Church  of  England,  the  chief  passages  rela- 
ting to  his  life  and  death  being  included  in  the  lessons. 
See  below,  John’s,  Eve  ok  St. 

John  (St.)  the  Evangelist’s  Day,  the  festival 
in  honor  of  John  the  beloved  disciple,  the  brother  of 
James.  The  first  trace  of  this  festival,  held  on  Decem- 
ber 27,  occurs  in  the  writings  of  “the  venerable”  Bede. 
It  is  presumed  that  the  observance  of  it  at  first  was  only 
local.  The  Council  of  Lyons,  A.D.  1240,  ordered  that  it 
should  be  perpetually  and  universally  celebrated. 

John’s,  Eve  of  St.,  one  of  the  most  joyous  festi- 
vals of  Christendom  during  the  Middle  Ages,  was  cele- 
brated on  the  eve  of  the  birthday  of  John  the  Baptist 
(q.  v.).  From  the  account  given  of  it  by  Jakob  Grimm 
( Deutsche  Mytkologie,  i,  578,  581,  583  sq.),  it  would  ap- 
pear to  have  been  observed  with  similar  rites  in  every 
country  of  Europe.  Fires  were  kindled  chiefly  in  the 
streets  and  market-places  of  the  towns,  as  at  Paris, 
Metz,  etc.;  sometimes,  as  at  Gernsheim,  in  the  district 
of  Mainz,  they  were  blessed  by  the  parish  priest,  and 
prayer  and  praise  offered  until  they  had  burned  out; 
but,  as  a rule,  they  were  secular  in  their  character,  and 
conducted  by  the  laity  themselves.  The  young  people 
leaped  over  the  flames,  or  threw  flowers  and  garlands 
into  them,  with  merry  shoutings;  songs  and  dances 
were  also  a frequent  accompaniment.  At  a compara- 
tively late  period  the  very  highest  personages  took  part 
in  these  festivities.  In  England,  we  are  told  (see  H. 
Chambers’s  Boole  of  Days,  June  24),  the  people  on  the 
Eve  of  St.John’s  were  accustomed  to  go  into  the  woods 
and  break  down  branches  of  trees,  which  they  brought 
to  their  homes  and  planted  over  their  doors,  amid  great 
demonstrations  of  joy,  to  make  good  the  prophecy  re- 
specting the  Baptist,  that  many  should  rejoice  in  his 
birth.  This  custom  was  universal  in  England  till  the 
recent  change  in  manners.  Some  of  the  superstitious 
notions  connected  with  St.  John’s  Eve  are  of  a higldy 
fancifid  nature.  The  Irish  believe  that  the  souls  of  all 
people  on  this  night  leave  their  bodies,  and  wander  to 
the  place,  by  land  or  sea,  where  death  shall  finally  sep- 
arate them  from  the  tenement  of  clay.  It  is  not  im- 
probable that  this  notion  was  originally  universal,  and 
was  the  cause  of  the  widespread  custom  of  watching  or 
sitting  up  awake  on  St.John’s  night,  for  we  may  well 
believe  that  there  would  be  a general  wish  to  prevent 
the  soid  from  going  upon  that  somewhat  dismal  ramble. 
In  England,  and  perhaps  in  other  countries  also,  it  was 
believed  that  if  any  one  sat  up  fasting  all  night  in  the 
church  porch  he  would  see  the  spirits  of  those  who  were 
to  die  in  the  parish  during  the  ensuing  twelve  months 
come  and  knock  at  the  church  door  in  the  order  and 
succession  in  which  they  were  to  die.  We  can  easily 
perceive  a possible  connection  between  this  dreary  fancy 
and  that  of  the  soul’s  midnight  ramble.  The  kindling 
of  the  tire,  the  leaping  over  or  through  the  flames,  and 
the  flower  garlands,  clearly  show  that  these  rites  are  es- 
sentially of  heathen  origin,  and  of  a sacrificial  charac- 
ter. They  are  obviously  connected  with  the  sun  and 
fire  worship  of  the  ancient  heathen  nations,  particularly 
the  Ariaus  (comp.  Agni,  of  the  Hindus  [q.  v.] ; Mitte- 
ra,  of  the  Persians;  the  vestal  virgins,  and  the  Homan 
f stival  of  Palilia),  and  the  Celts,  Germans,  and  Slavi. 
In  old  heathen  times,  Midsummer  and  Yule  (q.  v.),  the 
summer  and  winter  solstices,  were  the  two  greatest  and 
most  widespread  festivals  in  Europe.  The  Church  of 
Home,  in  its  accommodating  spirit,  instead  of  abolishing 
the  custom,  yielded  to  popular  feeling,  and  retained  this 
heathen  practice  under  the  garb  of  a Christian  name. 
‘"’H?  I)e  r*(u  ignis  in  natuli  S.Johannis  accensi 

0 ieima,  1759);  Paciandi,  De  cult  it  S.Joannis  Bapt.  un- 
tiqq.  Christ.  (Horn.  1758);  Ersch  mid  Gruber,  Allg.  Erf 
cyUop.  ii,  22,  ]>.  265;  F.  Nork,  Eest-Kalendcr  (Stuttgart!, 
1847),  p.  406.— Chambers,  Cyclop,  s,  v. 


JOHNS 


983 


JOHNSON 


Johns,  Richard,  a celebrated  member  of  the  So- 
ciety cf  “ Friends,”  was  born  at  Bristol,  England,  in  1645, 
and,  coming  to  this  country  in  early  manhood,  settled  in 
Maryland.  He  was  won  over  to  the  Quakers  by  George 
Fox,  and  preached  for  many  years,  lie  died  Oct.  16, 
1717.  For  further  details,  sec  Janncy,  Hist,  of  Friends, 
iii,  190. 

Johns,  W.  G.,a  minister  of  the  Methodist  Episco- 
pal Church  South,  was  born  in  Pulaski  County,  Ky., 
October  24, 1823,  joined  the  Church  at  thirteen  years  of 
age,  was  licensed  to  preach  in  1845,  and  continued  in  the 
work  for  twenty-one  years,  with  interruptions  for  want 
of  health.  Indeed,  it  is  said  that  so  great  was  his  de- 
votion to  the  Christian  ministry  that  lie  often  preached 
when  barely  able  to  leave  his  room.  He  died  October 
23, 1866. — Conf.  Min.  Moth.  Kpisc.  Church  South,  iii,  157. 

Johnson,  Albert  Osborne,  an  American  mis- 
sionary of  the  Presbyterian  Church  to  India,  was  born 
in  Cadiz,  Ohio,  June  22, 1833.  He  was  educated  at  Jef- 
ferson College,  l'a.,  where  he  was  converted,  and,  on  grad- 
uation (1852),  went  to  the  Theological  Seminary  at  Al- 
leghany, where  he  graduated  in  1855,  and  was  ordained  I 
by  the  presbytery  of  Ohio  June  12,  in  the  same  year. 
He  at  once  entered  the  missionary  work,  which  was 
shared  by  his  wife,  whom  he  had  married  the  day  he 
left  the  Theological  Seminary.  But  both  did  not  long 
endure  the  toils  of  a missionary  life ; during  the  Sepoy 
rebellion  in  1857  they  suffered  martyrdom  at  the  hands 
of  the  Indian  rebels.  For  details,  see  Walsh,  Memorial 
of  the  Futtehgurh  Mission  and  her  Martyred  Mission- 
anes  (Philada.  1859, 12mo),  p.  241  sq.  Mr.  Johnson  is 
spoken  of  by  Walsh  as  “a  man  of  very  genial  influences 
ami  of  fine  social  qualities.  As  a Christian  he  was 
zealous  and  devoted,  a man  of  prayer,  and  faithful  in  all 
his  duties ; as  a missionary  he  bade  fair  to  excel  in 
every  department  of  labor.  Ilis  qualifications  were  of 
a high  order.” 

Johnson,  Enoch,  a "Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
was  born  in  North  Carolina;  he  was  early  converted; 
joined  the  itinerancy  in  1819,  and  died  November  25, 
1824.  lie  was  a man  of  deep  piety  and  useful  talents. 
His  labors  were  abundantly  successful,  and  his  character 
greatly  beloved. — Minutes  of  Conferences,  i,  432. 

Johnson,  Evan  M.,  D.D.,  a minister  of  the  Prot- 
estant Episcopal  Church,  was  a native  of  Bhode  Island. 
He  was  ordained  to  the  ministry  in  Trinity  Church, 
Newport,  by  bishop  Griswold,  July  8, 1813  ; removed  to 
New  York  City  in  1814,  and  became  assistant  rector  of 
Grace  Church,  but  the  year  following  he  exchanged  this 
position  for  the  rectorate  of  St.  James’s  Church,  New- 
town, L.  I.  In  1824  he  settled  in  Brooklyn,  and  built 
St.  John’s  Church.  During  bis  ministry  he  united  near- 
ly 4000  couples  in  marriage,  and  baptized  nearly  10,000 
children.  He  was,  at  the  time  of  his  decease,  March  19, 
1865  (in  his  seventy-third  year),  the  oldest  settled  Epis- 
copal clergyman  in  the  State  of  New  York. 

Johnson,  Haynes,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minis- 
ter, was  bom  at  Newbury,  Vermont,  in  1801 ; converted 
in  1829;  entered  the  New  Hampshire  Conference  in  1831, 
and  died  at  Newbury,  April  9, 1856.  He  was  “a  faith- 
ful and  laborious  preacher,”  and  during  the  ten  months 
previous  to  his  death  he  made  nine  hundred  pastoral  vis- 
its. He  was  very  successful  in  winning  souls  to  Christ. 
— Minutes  of  Conferences , vi,  75. 

Johnson,  Herman  Merrill,  S.T.D.,  LL.D.,  a 
prominent  minister  and  educator  of  the  Methodist  Epis- 
copal Church,  was  bom  in  Oswego  County,  N.Y.,  Nov. 
25,  1815.  After  preparation  at  Cazenovia  Seminary,  he 
entered,  in  1837,  the  junior  class  of  Wesleyan  University, 
graduating  with  distinction  in  1839.  The  same  year 
he  was  elected  professor  of  ancient  languages  in  St. 
Charles’s  College,  Missouri,  where  he  remained  for  three 
years.  Thence  he  was  called  to  occupy  the  chair  of 
ancient  languages  in  Augusta  College,  Kentucky,  which 
he  held  for  two  years,  when  he  was  elected  professor  of 


ancient  languages  and  literature  in  the  Ohio  Wesleyan 
University  at  Delaware,  Ohio.  Here  he  performed  for 
a while  the  duties  of  acting  president  of  the  institution, 
organizing  its  curriculum,  and  was  especially  interested 
in  introducing  therein  a Biblical  course  of  study  as  a 
method  of  ministerial  education.  In  1850  he  was  elect- 
ed professor  of  philosophy  and  English  literature  in 
Dickinson  College,  a position  which  he  filled  for  ten 
years,  when  lie  was  called  to  the  presidency  of  this  in- 
stitution, together  with  the  chair  of  moral  science,  in 
1860.  Dr.  Johnson  died  April  5, 1868,  just  after  the  me- 
morials in  behalf  of  the  Methodist  centenary  had  secured 
to  Dickinson  College  a fair  endowment.  He  contributed 
largely  to  the  Church  periodicals,  especially  the  New 
York  Christum  Advocate  and  the  Methodist  Quarterly 
Review.  Indeed,  lie  was  decidedly  able  both  as  a writer 
and  an  instructor,  and  his  contributions  were  al  ways  read 
with  imeommon  interest ; for,  as  a thinker,  he  was  clear, 
concise,  original,  and  his  writings  were  often  eminently 
distinguished  for  their  simplicit  y and  grace  of  expression. 
He  had  an  especial  liking  for  all  questions  of  historical 
and  philological  inquiry,  and  published  a learned  edition 
of  the  Clio  of  Herodotus  (N.Y.  1842,  and  often).  He  left 
unfinished  another  large  and  valuable  philological  con- 
tribution, the  translation  and  revision  of  Eberhard’s 
great  Svnonymieal  Dictionary  of  German,  French,  Ital- 
ian, Spanish,  and  English.  It  is  especially  to  be  regret- 
ted that  he  did  not  live  to  complete  his  Commentary  on 
the  historical  Books  of  the  Old  Test.  “ Personally,  Dr. 
Johnson  was  a man  of  many  and  rare  excellencies.  He 
was  pre-eminently  a scholar,  extensively  learned,  and 
yet  distinguished  for  culture  rather  than  for  mere  learn- 
ing. He  was  especially  eminent  as  a teacher,  and  as  an 
administrator  and  disciplinarian  he  had  few  superiors. 
In  private  he  was  a model  Christian  gentleman,  affable, 
refined,  and  unassuming;  able  and  entertaining  in  con- 
versation, and  as  a companion  genial, without  descend- 
ing to  any  thing  out  of  harmony  with  his  elevated  char- 
acter and  position.  As  a preacher  he  was  both  forcible 
and  instructive,  though  too  rigidly  correct  in  his  tastes 
to  allow  him  to  become  extensively  popular.  In  his  re- 
lations to  the  Church  he  belonged  to  an  important  but 
very  small  class.  His  Christian  character,  his  learning, 
and  his  confessed  abilities  fitted  him  for  almost  any  one 
of  the  highest  and  most  responsible  offices  in  the  Church. 
Such  was  the  place  he  occupied,  while  others  of  equal 
dignity  and  importance  were  ready  to  be  offered  to  him” 
( Christian  A dvocatc,  N.  Y.,  April  1*6, 1868).  (J.  H.  W.) 

Johnson,  John  (1),  an  eminent  and  learned  cti- 
vine  of  the  Church  of  England,  was  bom  Dec.  30, 1662. 
He  was  educated  at  King’s  School,  in  the  city  of  Can- 
terbury, and  at  St.  Mary  Magdalen  College,  Cambridge. 
Soon  after  graduation  (1682)  he  was  nominated  by  the 
dean  and  chapter  of  Canterbury  to  a scholarship  in  Cor- 
pus Christi  College,  and  there  took  the  degree  of  master 
of  arts  in  1685.  Shortly  after  he  entered  into  deacon’s  or- 
ders, and  became  curate  to  Thomas  Hardrcs,  at  Hardrc  s, 
near  Canterbury.  In  1686  he  became  vicar  of  Houghton 
under  the  Bleam,  and  in  1687  he  held  the  vicarage  of 
Hernhill,  adjoining  to  Boughton.  In  1697  he  obtained 
the  living  of  St.John,  in  the  Isle  of  Tlianet,  which  lie 
shortly  after  exchangedfor  that  of  Appledon.  and  in  1707 
he  was  inducted  to  the  vicarage  of  Cranbrook.  He 
died  in  1725.  His  works  display  the  highest  scholar- 
ship, a mastenr  both  of  the  Greek  and  Hebrew  lan- 
guages, and  a deep  research  into  the  Holy  Scriptures. 
His  Unbloody  Sacrifice  (London,  1714,  8vo;  latest  ed. 
Oxf.  1847,  2 vols.  8vo)  is  the  most  complete  work  on 
the  Eucharist,  considered  as  a sacrifice,  extant,  particu- 
larly on  account  of  its  large  \collcction  of  authorities 
from  the  fathers,  which  are  printed  in  full.  These  are 
cited  to  prove  that  the  Eucharist  is  a proper  matenal 
sacrifice:  that  it  is  both  encharistic  and  propitiatory-; 
that  it  is  to  be  offered  by  proper  officers;  that  the  ob- 
lation is  to  be  made  on  a proper  altar;  that  it  is  to  be 
consumed  by  manducation ; together  with  arguments  to 
prove  that  what  our  Saviour  speaks  concerning  eating 


JOHNSON  984  JOHNSON 


his  flesh  anti  drinking  his  blood  in  the  6th  chapter  of 
St.John’s  C.ospcd  is  principally  meant  of  the  Eucharist. 
This  publication,  having  involved  him  in  a bitter  con- 
troversy on  account  of  its  High-Church  views,  induced 
him  to  publish,  in  1717,  The  Unbloody  Sacrifice , and  Al- 
tar unveiled  and  supported , part  ii,  showing  the  agree- 
ment and  disagreement  of  the  Eucharist  with  the  sac- 
ritices  of  the  ancients,  and  the  excellency  of  the  former-, 
the  great  importance  of  the  Eucharist  both  as  a feast 
and  a sacrifice ; the  necessity  of  frequent  communion ; 
the  unity  of  the  Eucharist;  the  nature  of  excommunica- 
tion; the  primitive  method  of  preparation,  with  devo- 
tions for  the  altar.  His  other  works  are,  .1  Collection 
of  all  Ecclesiastical  Laics,  etc.,  concerning  the  Gorern- 
ment,  etc.,  of  the  Church  of  England  (Loud.  1720,2  vols. 
8vo ; ( )xford,  1850-51 , 2 vols.  8vo) A Collection  of  Dis- 
courses, etc.  (Loud.  1728.  2 vols.  8vo)  -.—The  Psalter,  or 
Holy  David  and  his  old  English  Translators  cleared 
( London,  1707,  8vo).  See  Life,  by  Rev.  Thos.  Brett.— 
Hook,  Eccles.  Diet.  s.  v.;  Allibone,  Did.  Engl,  and  Am. 
A nth.  ii,  s.  v.  (E.  de  P.) 

Johnson,  John  (2),  an  able  and  popular  minister 
of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church,  born  in  Louisa  Co., 
Va.,  Jan.  7,  1783;  joined  the  Church  in  1807,  and  en- 
tered the  Conference  at  Liberty  Hill,  Tennessee  in  1808. 
Two  years  after  he  removed  to  Kentucky,  and  was  ap- 
pointed first  to  the  Sandy  River  Circuit,  and  in  1811  to 
Natchez  Circuit.  His  early  educational  advantages  had 
been  few,  and  when  he  entered  the  ministry  of  his 
Church  he  can  hardly  be  said  to  have  possessed  a fair 
English  education ; but  unremitting  efforts  to  gain 
knowledge  at  last  made  him  one  of  the  best  scholars  of 
his  Conference.  Thus,  while  at  the  Natchez  Circuit, he 
displayed  an  extensive  knowledge  of  the  Greek  anil  1 le- 
brew,  of  which  no  one  had  believed  him  to  have  an  idea 
even,  and  from  that  time  he  began  to  rise  rapidly  in 
the  estimation  of  his  colleagues.  He  now  took  rank 
with  Lakin,  Sale,  Page,  Blackman,  and  Oglesby,  and  was 
regarded  by  many  as  the  most  remarkable  preacher  of 
the  West.  In  1812  he  was  appointed  to  the  Nashville 
Circuit;  then  successively  to  the  Livingston,  Christian, 
and  ( loose  Creek,  and  finally  again  to  the  Livingston  Cir- 
cuit ; and  in  1818  he  was  sent  to  the  Nashville  Station. 
While  here  lie  engaged  in  a controversy  on  the  ques- 
tion of  immersion  with  the  Baptist  preacher  Vardeman, 
in  which  he  is  generally  believed  to  have  come  off  vic- 
tor; at  least  from  this  event  dates  his  great  popularity 
in  the  West.  “ 1 lenceforth,”  says  Bedford  (Methodism  in 
Kentucky,  ii,  143),  “the  name  of  John  Johnson  wa3  the 
synonym  of  success  in  religious  controversies.”  From 
1820  he  filled  successively  the  Red  River,  Hopkinsville, 
and  Russellville  Circuits,  and  in  1823  he  was  stationed  at 
Louisville,  and  in  1824  at  Maysville,  and,  after  several 
years  of  rest,  was  in  1831  appointed  presiding  elder  of 
the  Green  River,  and  in  1832  of  Hopkinsville  District. 
In  183.)  lie  was  finally  located,  and  he  now  removed  to 
Mt. Vernon,  Illinois.  Here  he  died  April  9, 1858.  “As 
a ( Miristian,”  says  the  Western  Christian  Advocate  (May 
26,  1*58),  “ brother  Johnson  was  consistent,  exemplary, 
and  deeply  devoted.  ‘Holiness  to  the  Lord’ appears  to 
have  been  his  motto.  He  died  in  great  peace,  testify- 
ing, as  his  tlcsh  anil  heart  failed,  that  God  was  tlie 
strength  of  his  heart  and  his  portion  forever.”  (J.  II.W.) 
Johnson,  John  (3).  See  Johnsonians. 

Johnson,  John  Barent,  a minister  of  the  Re- 
f irmed  (Dutch)  Church,  was  born  in  1769  in  Brooklyn, 
L.  I.;  graduated  at  Columbia  ( College,  1792;  studied  the- 
ology under  Dr.  John  11.  Livingston,  and  entered  the 
ministry  m 1795.  He  was  eopastor  of  the  Reformed 
1 bitch  Church,  Albany,  with  Rev.  Dr.  John  Bassett,  from 
L96  to  18(12,  an(i  afterwards  pastor  of  the  church  in 
Brooklyn,  1802-3.  Of  prepossessing  appearance  and  en- 
gaging manners,  he  won  many  friends  by  his  dignified 
and  courteous  bearing.  lie  was  popular  with  all  class- 
es, especially  with  the  young.  As  a preacher  he  was 
distinguished  for  a melodious  voice,  a natural  manner, 


and  effective  oratory.  His  eulogy  on  General  Wash- 
ington “ produced  a great  sensation  throughout  the  com- 
munity. The  exordium  was  spoken  of  at  the  time  as  a 
rare  specimen  of  eloquence ; and  the  whole  performance 
was  certainly  of  a very  high  order.”  It  was  published 
by  the  Legislature,  at  whose  request  it  was  delivered. 
He  also  published  several  other  discourses,  and  contrib- 
uted largely  to  literary  periodicals  of  his  day.  In  per- 
son he  was’  tall,  slender,  well  proportioned,  and  graceful 
His  imagination  was  brilliant  and  his  fervor  profound, 
His  intellectual  qualities  and  theological  and  literary 
attainments  were  eminent.  He  wrote  his  sermons,  but 
delivered  them  extemporaneously,  with  great  simplic- 
ity, directness,  and  unction.  He  died  of  consumption, 
Aug.  29, 1803.  Of  his  three  children,  two  became  Epis- 
copalian clergymen  : one  at  Jamaica,  L.  I. ; the  other  a 
professor  in  the  General  Theological  Seminary  at  New 
York.  — Rogers,  Historical  Discourse  (Albany,  1858); 
Sprague,  Annals,  ix,  167.  (W.  J.  If.  T.) 

Johnson,  Joseph,  an  Indian  preacher,  was  born 
at  Mohegan,  near  Norwich,  Conn.,  about  1750.  After  a 
brief  course  of  instruction  under  Mr.Wheelock  at  Leba- 
non, he  was  sent,  at  the  age  of  fifteen,  as  a schoolmaster 
to  the  Six  Nations  of  Indians  in  New  York,  and  remain- 
ed there  a couple  of  years.  Afterwards  he  spent  a va- 
grant life  for  some  time,  until,  during  a fit  of  sickness 
occasioned  by  his  irregularities,  he  became  a sincere 
penitent,  and  determined  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 
He  was  soon  licensed  to  preach,  and  for  several  years 
was  a missionary  in  the  State  of  New  York.  He  was 
well  acquainted  with  theology.  The  date  of  his  death 
is  not  known  to  us. 

Johnson,  Samuel  (1),  an  English  divine,  and  a 
learned  hut  violent  writer  against  popery  in  the  reign 
of  James  II,  was  born  in  Warwickshire  in  1649.  He 
studied  at  St.  Paul’s  School  and  at  Trinity  College,  Cam- 
bridge. In  1670  be  obtained  the  living  of  Corringham, 
Essex,  but  continued  to  reside  in  London,  and  mingled 
much  in  politics,  lie  was  a friend  of  Essex,  and  chap- 
lain to  lord  William  Russell,  and  advocated  the  succes- 
sion of  the  duke  of  York.  He  was  a decided  opponent 
of  king  James  II  and  of  his  schemes  to  introduce  popery 
as  the  religion  of  the  state,  and  attacked  Dr.  Hiekes  (q. 
v.),  the  upholder  of  passive  obedience,  in  a pamphlet 
entitled  Julian  the  Apostate.  He  would  have  gone  fur- 
ther had  not  the  death  of  his  protector,  lord  Russell, 
obliged  him  to  become  more  prudent,  and  to  keep  his 
Julian's  Arts  to  undermine  Christianity  unpublished. 
For  having  written  the  former  work  he  was  summoned 
before  judge  Jeffries,  and  of  course  condemned  to  a 
heavy  line.  Unable  to  pay  the  fine,  he  was  imprisoned, 
and  during  his  confinement  wrote  .4  n humble  and  hearty 
Address  to  all  Protestants  in  the  present  Army,  intended 
to  provoke  a rebellion  against  king  James  II.  He  was 
now  put  in  the  pillory  in  Palace  Yard,  at  Charing  Cross, 
whipped,  and  fined,  after  being  degraded  from  orders. 
After  the  Revolution  of  1688,  William  III  caused  the 
verdict  to  he  reversed,  and  gave  him  an  indemnity.  He 
died  in  1703.  His  writings  were  collected  and  publish- 
ed under  the  style  I Boris  (2d  ed.  Lond.  1713,  fob).  See 
Biographia  Britannica ; Ilocfer,  Xonc.  Biog.  Generate , 
xxvi,  791  ; Debar)’,  1 list.  Ch.  of  Engl,  from  James  II  to 
1717,  p.  70;  Allibone,  Diet.  Engl,  and  Amcr.  Authors,  ii, 
971.  (E  de  P.) 

Johnson,  Samuel  (2),  D.D.,  an  American  divine, 
was  born  at  Guilford,  Conn.,  Oct.  14,  1696,  and  passed 
A.B.  in  1714  at  Yale  College,  then  situated  at  Saybrook. 
On  the  removal  of  Yale  to  New  Haven  he  became  one 
of  its  tutors,  and  in  1720  pastor  of  the  Congregational 
Church,  West  Haven.  Determined  to  change  his  eccle- 
siastical relations,  he  went  to  England,  and  received 
episcopal  ordination  in  1723.  lie  then  visited  Oxford 
and  Cambridge,  where  he  was  made  A.M.,  and  returned 
to  America.  Upon  his  arrival  he  entered  on  the  mis- 
sion of  Stratford,  Conn.,  and  formed  the  acquaintance 
of  Y\  illiam  Burnet,  son  of  the  bishop  of  Salisbury.  His 


JOHNSON 


985 


JOHNSON 


ministerial  duties  were  now  considerably  increased,  and 
his  pen  warmly  engaged  for  some  years  in  defence  of 
episcopacy.  In  1743  he  was  made  D.D.  by  the  Uni- 
versity of  Oxford.  In  1744  he  was  appointed  president 
of  King’s  College,  New  York,  in  which  office  he  contin- 
ued till  1754,  when  he  returned  to  Stratford,  where  he 
spent  a tranquil  and  dignified  old  age,  chiefly  in  literary 
labor.  In  1740  he  issued  A System  of  Morality,  and  in 
1752  A Compendium  of  Loyir,  Metaphysics,  and  Ethics, 
and  other  theological  and  miscellaneous  treatises  after 
this  date.  He  died  Jan.  0,  1772. — Sprague,  Annals,  v, 
52 ; Allibone,  Diet.  Eng.  and  A m.  A uth.  ii,  971 . ( E.  de  P.) 

Johnson,  Samuel  (3),  LL.U.,  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  literary  men  of  the  eighteenth  century, 
was  born  at  Lichfield  September  18,  1709.  His  early 
education  was  acquired  in  his  native  town.  In  1728 
he  was  entered  at  Pembroke  College,  Oxford,  but,  in 
consequence  of  the  want  of  means,  did  not  remain  long 
enough  to  obtain  his  degree.  In  1731  his  father  died 
insolvent.  In  the  same  year  he  went  to  Bosworth  as 
usher  of  a school.  He  soon  became  disgusted  with 
the  drudgery  of  teaching,  and  preferred  to  support  him- 
self by  working  for  booksellers  in  Birmingham.  In 
1736  lie  married  Mrs.  Porter,  the  widow  of  a mercer, 
who  brought  him  £800.  Failing  in  an  effort  to  estab- 
lish an  academy,  he  repaired  in  1737  to  London,  accom- 
panied by  his  celebrated  pupil  David  Garrick.  He  now 
devoted  himself  entirely  to  literary  labor.  His  first 
production  which  attracted  notice  was  his  London,  a 
poem  in  imitation  of  the  third  satire  of  Juvenal.  Hav- 
ing entered  into  an  engagement  with  the  Gentleman's 
Magazine,  he  published  the  parliamentary  debates, 
which,  being  then  a breach  of  privilege,  came  out  under 
the  fiction  of  Debates  in  the  Senate  of  Lilliput.  These 
obtained  great  celebrity  on  account  of  their  extraordi- 
nary eloquence,  and  were  almost  exclusively  the  prod- 
uct of  his  own  invention.  The  works  which  were  now 
produced  were  celebrated  beyond  measure,  and  will  ever 
be  regarded  as  extraordinary  monuments  both  of  vigor 
and  originality  in  thinking,  and  of  great  though  pon- 
derous power  of  expression. 

But  Dr.  Johnson  had  excellencies  far  superior  to  mere 
literary  accomplishments.  He  was  truly  a devout  man, 
and  he  possessed  a vigor  and  independence  of  mind 
which  enabled  him  to  scorn  the  ridicule  and  silence  the 
opposition  of  wits  and  worldlings  to  serious  religion. 
He  often  recurred  in  after  life  to  the  impression  made 
upon  his  tender  imagination  by  his  mother’s  example 
and  instruction.  While  a student  at  Oxford  these  im- 
pressions were  revived  and  intensified,  according  to  his 
own  account,  by  the  careful  study  of  Law’s  Serious  Call, 
in  consequence  of  which  he  was  incited  to  a devout  and 
holy  life.  Serious  and  pious  meditations  and  resolu- 
tions had  been  early  familiar  to  his  mind.  The  pious 
gratitude  with  which  he  acknowledged  mercies  upon 
e%rery  occasion,  the  humble  submission  which  lie  breathes 
when  it  is  the  will  of  his  heavenly  Father  to  try  him 
with  affliction,  show  how  seriously  the  mind  of  Johnson 
had  been  impressed  with  a sense  of  religion. 

Dr.  Johnson  is  generally  charged  with  extreme  big- 
otry, and  want  of  charity  towards  religionists  who  dif- 
fered from  him.  This  charge,  however,  is  very  unfair 
in  the  face  of  his  repeated  declaration  to  the  contrary. 
“All  denominations  of  Christians,”  he  is  reported  to 
have  said,  “have  really  little  difference  in  point  of  doc- 
trine, though  they  may  differ  widely  in  external  forms.” 
“For  my  part,  I think  all  Christians,  whether  papist  or 
Protestant,  agree  in  the  essential  articles,  and  that  their 
differences  are  trivial,  and  rather  political  than  relig- 
ious.” He  spoke  in  the  highest  terms  of  Wesley  from 
intimate  knowledge  of  his  character,  having  been  at  the 
same  college  with  him,  and  said  that  “he  thought  of 
religion  only.”  “ Whatever  might  be  thought  of  some 
Methodist  teachers,”  he  said,  “he  could  scarcely  doubt 
the  sincerity  of  that  man,  who  travelled  900  miles  in  a 
month,  and  preached  twelve  times  in  a week ; for  no 
adequate  reward,  merely  temporal,  could  be  given  for 


such  indefatigable  labor.  The  established  clergy  in 
general  did  not  preach  plain  enough ; polished  periods 
and  glittering  sentences  flew  over  the  heads  of  the  com- 
mon people  without  impression  on  their  hearts.  Some- 
thing might  be  necessary  to  excite  the  affections  of  the 
common  people,  who  were  sunk  in  languor  and  lethargy, 
and  therefore  he  supposed  that  the  new  concomitants 
of  Methodism  might  probably  produce  so  desirable  an 
effect.  The  mind,  like  the  body,  delighted  in  change 
and  novelty,  and  even  in  religion  itself  courted  new  ap- 
pearances and  modifications.”  His  views  on  the  great 
subjects  of  original  sin,  in  consequence  of  the  hill  of 
man,  and  of  the  atonement  made  by  our  Saviour,  as 
reported  by  his  celebrated  biographer,  were  decided  and 
evangelical.  His  sentiments  on  natural  and  revealed 
religion  were  equally  explicit.  In  short,  it  appears 
that  few  men  have  ever  lived  in  whose  thoughts  re- 
ligion had  a larger  or  more  practical  share.  ‘ Ilis 
habitual  piety,”  says  lord  Brougham,  “ his  sense  of 
his  own  imperfections,  his  generally  blameless  conduct 
in  the  various  relations  of  life,  have  already  been  suf- 
ficiently described.  He  was  a good  man,  as  he  was  a 
great  man  ; and  he  had  so  firm  a regard  for  virtue  that 
1 he  wisely  set  much  greater  store  by  his  worth  than 
by  his  fame.”  “Though  consciousness  of  superiority 
might  sometimes  induce  him  to  carry  it  high  with  mail 
(and  even  this  was  much  abated  in  the  latter  part  of  his 
. life),  his  devotions  have  shown  to  the  whole  world  how 
humbly  he  walked  at  all  times  with  his  God.”  “ If, 
then,  it  be  asked,”  says  lord  Mahon,  “who  first  in  Eng- 
land, at  that  period,  breasted  the  waves  and  stemmed 
the  tide  of  infidelity — who  enlisted  wit  and  eloquence, 
together  with  argument  and  learning,  on  the  side  of 
revealed  religion,  first  turned  the  literary  current  in  its 
favor,  mainly  prepared  the  reaction  which  succeeded — 
that  praise  scetns  most  justly  to  belong  to  Dr.  Samuel 
Johnson.  Befigion  was  with  him  no  mere  lip  service 
nor  cold  formality;  he  was  mindful  of  it  in  his  social 
hours  as  much  as  in  his  graver  lucubrations;  and  he 
brought  to  it  not  merely  erudition  such  as  few  indeed 
possessed,  but  the  weight  of  the  highest  character,  and 
the  respect  which  even  his  enemies  could  not  deny  him. 
It  may  be  said  of  him  that,  though  not  in  orders,  he  did 
the  Church  of  England  belter  service  than  most  of  those 
who  at  that  listless  »ra  ate  her  bread.” 

The  death  of  this  great  man  was  a beautiful  com- 
mentary on  his  life.  “ When  at  length,”  says  lord  Ma- 
caulay, “ the  moment  dreaded  through  so  many  years 
came  close,  the  dark  cloud  passed  away  from  Johnson’s 
mind.  His  temper  became  unusually  patient  and  gen- 
tle; he  ccasetl  to  think  of  death  and  of  that  which  lies 
beyond  death,  and  he  spoke  much  of  the  mercy  of  God 
and  the  propitiation  of  Christ.  Though  the  tender  care 
which  had  mitigated  his  sufferings  during  months  of 
sickness  at  Streatham  was  withdrawn,  he  was  not  left 
desolate.  ...  In  this  serene  frame  of  mind  lie  died, 
Dec.  13,  1784;  a week  later  he  was  laid  in  Westminster 
Abbey,  among  the  eminent  men  of  whom  he  had  been 
the  historian — Cowley  and  Denham,  Dryden  and  Con- 
greve, Gay,  Prior,  and  Addison.”  (E.  de  P.) 

It  remains  for  us  to  append  a brief  outline  of  all  the 
literary  labors  of  his  life.  In  addition  to  his  contribu- 
| tions  to  the  Gentleman's  Magazine  and  his  poem  London, 
' Johnson  wrote  in  1744  an  interesting  Life  of  Richard 
Savage;  in  1749  his  best  poem,  The  Vanity  of  Human 
Wishes,  an  imitation  of  the  tenth  satire  of  Juvenal;  and 
| in  1750  commenced  The  Rambler,  a periodical  which  he 
conducted  for  two  years,  and  the  contents  of  which  were 
almost  wholly  his  own  composition.  But  perhaps  one 
of  liis  greatest  accomplishments  is  his  Dictionary , a no- 
ble piece  of  work,  entitling  its  author  to  be  considered 
the  founder  of  English  lexicography;  it  appeared  in 
1755,  after  eight  years  of  solid  labor.  The  Idler , an- 
other periodical,  was  begun  by  him  in  1758.  and  carried 
on  for  two  years  also;  and  in  1759  occurred  one  of  the 
most  touching  episodes  of  his  life — the  writing  of  Ras- 
i selas  to  pay  the  expenses  of  his  mother’s  funeral.  It 


JOHNSON 


936 


JOIADA 


parts  of  England.  He  denied  that  faith  was  a duty,  or 
even  action  of  the  soul,  and  defined  it  “ an  active  prin- 
ciple” conferred  by  grace;  and  denied  also  the  duty  of 
ministers  to  exhort  the  unconverted,  or  preach  any 
moral  duties  whatever.  Though  Mr.  Johnson  enter- 
tained high  supralapsarian  notions  on  the  divine  de- 
crees, he  admitted  the  universality  of  the  death  of 
Christ.  On  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  his  followers 
are  said  to  have  embraced  the  indwelling  scheme,  with 
Calvinistie  views  of  justification  and  the  atonement. 
. See  Johnson’s  Faith  of  God's  Elect ; Brine’s  Mistakes 
of  Mr.  Johnson  (1745). 

Johnston,  Arthur,  a Scottish  writer  of  great  ce- 
lebrity, a native  of  Caskieben,  near  Aberdeen,  was  born 
in  1587.  He  was  a physician  by  profession,  but  spent 
most  of  his  time  in  literary  pursuits;  especially  thor- 
ough was  his  acquaintance  with  Latin,  and  it  is  mainly 
for  his  Latin  version  of  the  Psalms,  one  of  his  last  and 
best  works,  that  we  mention  his  name  here.  They  were 
published  under  the  title  of  Psalnwrum  Davidis  Para- 
phrasis Poetica,  et  Canticorum  Evangelicorum  (Aberd. 
1637,  l'2mo,  and  often  since).  As  another  writer  of  note, 
George  Buchanan,  also  furnished  a Latin  version  of  the 
Psalms,  a comparison  was  frequently  instituted  as  to 
the  comparative  merits  of  their  work,  llallam  {Liter. 
Hist,  of  Europe , 4th  ed.  Lond.  1854,  iii,  53),  in  alluding 
to  it,  thinks  that  “ Johnston’s  Psalms,  all  of  which  are  in 
, elegiac  metre,  do  not  fall  far  short  of  those  of  Buchanan 
eitlier  in  elegance  of  style  or  correctness  of  Latinity.” 
Johnston  spent  the  earlier  part  of  his  life  in  France  and 
Italy.  His  medical  degree  he  obtained  at  Padua.  He 
returned  to  Scotland  in  1625,  and  about  1628  was  ap- 
pointed physician  to  the  court  of  Charles  I.  In  1637 
his  literary  attainments  received  recognition  by  his 
election  to  the  rectorate  of  King’s  College.  He  died  in 
1G41.  Besides  the  Psalms,  he  translated  into  Latin  the 
Te  Deuni,  Creed,  Decalogue,  etc.;  also  Solomon's  Son g 
(Lond.  1683,  8vo).  His  other  publications  are  Elegia 
in  Ohitum  It.  Jacobi  (Lond.  1625,  4to) : — Epigram  ?nata 
(Aberdeen,  1632, 8vo).  See  memoirs  of  him  in  Benson’s 
ed.  of  Johnston’s  version  of  the  Psalms;  Allibone,  Diet, 
of  Eng.  and  A mer.  A uthors,  ii,  983 ; Cyclop.  Iirit.  vol. 
xii,  s.  v. 

Johnston,  John,  a Scotch  minister,  was  a native 
of  Aberdeen,  and  flourished  in  the  latter  half  of  the  16th 
1 century.  He  was,  like  his  relative  Arthur  Johnston  (q. 
v.),  of  a poetical  turn  of  mind,  but  he  also  served  his 
Church  (the  Presbyterian)  in  the  capacity  of  professor 
of  divinity  at  St.  Andrew’s  College.  lie  died  in  1612, 
lie  wrote  Consolatio  Christiana  sub  Cruce,  etc.  (1609, 
8 vo) : — Jamhi  Sacra  (1611) : — Tertrastivhn  et  Lemmata 
Sacra — Item  Cantica  Sacra — Item  leones  Regum  J n iece 
et  Israelis  (Lngd.  Bat.  1612,  4to);  etc.  See  Allibone, 
Diet,  of  English  and  A merican  A uthors,  vol.  ii,  s.  v. 

Johnstone,  Buyce,  an  eminent  Scottish  theologian 
and  writer,  was  born  at  Annan,  Dumfriesshire,  in  1747. 
lie  studied  at  the  University  of  Edinburgh,  where  he 
graduated  D.D.  lie  entered  the  Church,  and  was  for  a 
long  time  pastor  of  Ilolyrood  (from  1771),  and  died  m 
1805.  He  wrote,  Commentary  on  the  Rei'elaiion  of  John 
(1791, 2 vols.  8vo)  : — On  the  Influence  of  Religion  on  civil 
Society  and  civil  Government  (1801).  All  of  his  Sermons 
and  Life  w ere  published  by  his  nephew,  the  Lev.  John 
Johnstone  (1807,  8vo);  etc.  See  Gorton’s  Biogr.  Dic- 
tionary, s.  v. ; Allibone,  Did.  Engl,  and  A m.  A nth.  s.  v. 

Joi'ada  (Ileb.  Yoyatla’,  "T’T1,  a contraction  of  Je- 
moiada,  found  only  in  Xehemiah,  who  invariably  uses 
it),  the  name  of  two  men. 


was  written,  he  tells  us,  “ in  the  evenings  of  a week.” 

But,  with  all  these  publications  before  the  public,  he 
did  not  really  emerge  from  obscurity  until  1762,  when  a 
pension  of  £300  a year  was  conferred  on  him  by  lord 
Bute;  and  in  the  foilowing  year  occurred  an  event,  ap- 
parently of  little  moment,  but  which  had  a lasting  in- 
fluence" upon  his  fame:  this  was  his  introduction  to 
James  Boswell,  whose  Life  of  Dr.  Johnson  is  probably 
more  imperishable  than  any  of  the  doctor’s  own  vot- 
ings. In  1764  the  famous  Literary  Club  was  instituted, 
ami  in  the  following  year  began  his  intimacy  with  the 
Th rales.  In  the  same  year  appeared  his  edition  of 
Shakspeare.  In  1773  he  visited  the  Highlands  with 
Boswell,  and  in  1781  appeared  his  Lives  of  the  Poets,  his 
last  literary  work  of  any  importance.  See  Boswell,  Life 
of  Johnson;  Wilkes,  Christian  Essays;  Murphy,  Life, 
in  preface  to  IUw£s ; Memoir  by  Walter  Scott;  Essays 
by  Macaulay  and  Carlyle ; a brief  but  elaborate  charac- 
ter of  l)r.  Johnson,  written  by  Sir  James  Mackintosh,  in 
his  Life,  ii,  166-9;  Dr.  Johnson,  his  Religious  Life  and 
Death  (X.  V.  1850,  8vo) ; Chambers,  Cyclop,  s.  v. ; Eng- 
lish Cyclop,  s.  v. ; and  the  excellent  and  elaborate  article 
in  Allibone,  Did.  Engl,  and  A mer.  Authors,  s.  v. 

Johnson,  Thomas,  a minister  of  the  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church  South,  w'as  born  in  Virginia,  July  11. 

1802;  went  to  Missouri  in  1822,  and  commenced  the 
work  of  the  ministry  in  1825.  He  labored  as  an  itiner- 
ant in  the  bounds  of  the  St.  Louis  Conference,  filling 
some  of  the  most  important  stations;  but  spent  his 
greatest  labors,  and  was  most  successful,  as  missionary 
to  the  Indians.  His  name  will  ever  be  connected  with 
the  history  of  Indian  missions.  Wise  and  earnest,  he 
carried  success  with  him  in  his  responsible  and  arduous 
labors.  He  honorably  sustained  his  character  as  a 
Christian  minister  through  all  liis  pilgrimage,  and  died 
an  approved  servant  of  God.  He  was  shot  by  unknown 
parties  in  the  night  of  Jan.  3, 1865,  probably  on  account 
of  his  political  principles.  Among  his  colleagues  in  the 
Conference  Johnson  ranked  with  the  first,  and  was 
highly  esteemed  hy  all.  Says  one  of  them : “ He  was 
a man  of  principle ; one  of  the  very  few  among  the 
many  thousands  who,  on  all  occasions  and  under  all 
circumstances,  acted  upon  the  settled  principle  of  mo- 
rality and  religion.”  See  Conf.  Min.  M.  E.  Ch.  S.  iii, 

16m. 

Johnson,  William  Bullien,  D.D.,  a Baptist 
minister,  was  born  on  John’s  Island,  near  Charleston,  S. 

C.,  June  13,  1782.  lie  was  intended  for  the  jurist’s  pro- 
fession, hut  after  conversion  (1804)  he  decided  for  the 
ministry,  and  was  ordained,  January,  1806,  pastor  of  a 
church  at  Lutaw,  S.  C.  In  1809  he  removed  to  Colum- 
bia; later  he  lived  at  Savannah,  Ga..  whence  he  return- 
ed to  Columbia  in  1*16.  In  1822  he  was  placed  i„ 
charge  of  the  female  academy  at  ( Ireenville,  S.  C.  Eight 
or  nine  years  later  he  removed  to  Edgeville,  S.  C.?as 
pastor,  teaching  also  at  the  same  time  at  a female  high 
school,  and  subsequently  to  Anderson,  S.  C.,  where  a 
university  for  ladies  bears  his  name.  I Ie  finally  returned 
to  Greenville.  S.  where  ho  labored  faithfully  for  the 
< hurch  of  lus  choice  up  to  the  hour  of  his  death,  in  perfect. 

vigor  of  mind  and  soundness  of  body  very  unlike  an  octo- 

geiianan.  lie  died  in  1867  or  1868.  The  degree  of  D.D. 
was  conferred  upon  him  by  Brown  University  in  1833. 

Dr.  Johnson  was  a prominent  member  of  the*Bihle  Ile- 
vtsion  Society,  and  one  of  the  presidents  of  the  General 
Uipttst  Convention  of  the  United  States  (formed  in 
l in.  Over  the  Baptist  Convention  of  his  native  state 
he  presided  for  a score  and  a half  of  years.  lie  wrote 
largely  for  the  religious  periodicals  of  his  Church,  and 

\hrongh  the  Gorernnamt  "Lfonfoof the  Churches he-  - n ^ JV  A' 

sides  sermons,  circulars,  and  addresses.- Appleton  ’ Cu-  1 1J.e,f1Tda*  > . Son  of  Pa?eah’  and  apparently  one  of  the 
clop,  x,  :sti.  * 1 ’ J | chief  priests;  in  conjunction  with  Meshullam  he  repair- 

ed the  Old  Gate  [see  Jekcsat.em],  with  its  appurte- 
nances, after  the  captivity  (Xeh.  iii,  6).  B.C.  446. 

2.  (Sept.  ’Iwatd  v.  r.  ’lunadtt,  Ttu^aL)  Son  and 
successor  of  Eliashib  in  the  high-priesthood,  himself 


Johnsonians,  followers  of  John  Johnson,  a Baptist 
whom at  Ll v'  r|M,;;L  England,  in  the  last  century,  of 
thcre  arc  Ml11  several  congregations  in  different 


JOIAKIM 


987 


JOKTAN 


succeeded  by  his  son  Jonathan  (Neh.  xii,  10,  11,  22); 
another  of  his  sons  having  married  a daughter  of  San- 
ballat,  on  which  account  he  was  banished  (Neh.  xiii, 
28).  11. C.  post  446.  Josephus  (Ant.  xi,  7,  1)  Graeeizes 

the  name  as  Judus  (lovca^).  See  High-priest. 

Joi'akim  (Ileb.  Yoyakim',  a contraction 

of  Jehoiakim,  used  exclusively  by  Nehemiah;  Sept. 
’hoaictip  v.  r.  ' l atari  p),  son  of  Jeshua  and  father  of  Eli- 
asliib,  high-priests  successively  (Neh.  xii,  10,  12,  26). 
B.C.  ante  446.  Josephus  does  not  mention  him.  See 
High-priest. 

Joi'arib  (Heb.  Yoyarib',  a contraction  of 

Jeiioiarib,  occurring  exclusively  in  Ezra  and  Nehemi- 
ah), the  name  of  three  or  four  persons. 

1.  (Sept.  v.  r.  'Iwpi/3.)  A priest  named  (Neh. 

xi,  10)  in  connection  with  Jacliin,  and  as  father  of  Jed- 
aiali  (q.  v.),  but  by  some  error;  eompare  1 Chron.  ix,  10, 
where  he  is  called  Jeiioiarib  (q.  v.),  well  known  as 
founder  of  one  of  the  sacerdotal  “ courses.”  See  Priest. 

2.  (Sept.  ’Uoictptfi.')  A descendant  of  Judah,  son  of 
Zecliariah  and  father  of  Adaiah  (Neh.  xi,  5),  apparently 
through  Shelah.  See  Siuloni.  B.O.  considerably  ante 
536. 

3.  (Sept,  lujiaptt/3,  ’hoapi/3.)  One  of  the  priests 
wlio  returned  from  Babylon  with  Zerubbabel  (Neh.  xii, 
6).  lie  was  the  father  of  Mattenai,  a contemporary 
with  the  liigh-priest  Joiakim  (Neh.  xii,  19).  B.C.  536. 

4.  (Sept,  ’luiaptifx  v.  r.  ’Iwapifi.)  A person  men- 
tioned in  connection  with  Elnathan  as  a “ man  of  un- 
derstanding” (the  others  being  called  “ chief  men”),  ap- 
parently among  the  priests,  sent  for  by  Ezra  at  the 
river  of  Ahava  to  devise  means  for  obtaining  a company 
of  Levites  to  return  with  him  to  Jerusalem  (Ezra  viii, 
16).  B.C.  459. 

Joining,  besides  its  common  sense  (pp'n,  to  cling  or 
adhere),  is  .technically  used  of  the  binders  (r^lStva, 
mechabberoth''),  whether  of  wood  or  stone,  of  the  walls 
of  a building  (1  Chron.  xxii,  3).  See  Coupling. 

Joint,  besides  its  usual  meaning  (pp~  de'bek,  capi], 
etc."),  is,  in  one  passage  (Cant,  vii,  1),  very  erroneously 
employed  in  the  A.V.  as  a rendering  of  fpISH,  cham- 
mitkim'  (Sept,  vaguely  pvSrpoi  .Yidg.juncturee,  occurs  no- 
where else),  the  wrappers  ~(ot  the  thighs),  i.  e.  drawers, 
a part  of  the  female  dress ; which,  in  the  case  of  bridal 
toilette,  are  represented  as  being  fringed  with  a worked 
edging  like  lace  or  a skilfully  chased  jewel.  See  Attire. 

Jok'd  earn  (Heb.  Yokcfeam',  D“7pn,  burning  of  the 
people;  Sept.  IticSacip, Vulg.  Jueadam),  a town  in  the 
mountains  of  Judah,  mentioned  between  Jezreel  and  Za- 
noali  (Josh,  xv,  56).  The  associated  names  indicate  a 
locality  in  the  district  south-east  of  Hebron,  perhaps  at 
the  ruined  site  marked  as  ed-Dar  on  Van  de  Velde’s 
Map,  just  north  of  Jebel  Ziph. 

Jo'kim  (Heb.  Yokim E‘p‘"',  prob.  a contraction 
of  Joiakim;  Sept.  ’linmcttp  v.  r.  lujatclp,  Vulg.  para- 
phrases qui  stare  fecit  soleni),  a person  mentioned  among 
the  descendants  of  Shelah  (his  third  son,  according  to 
Burlington),  son  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  iv,  22).  B.C.  prob. 
ante  588.  See  Jasiiubi-leiiem.  “The Targum  trans- 
lates, * and  the  prophets  and  scribes  who  came  forth  from 
the  seed  of  Joshua.’  The  reading  which  that  and  the 
Vulg.  had  evidently  was  C"p^,  applied  by  some  Rabbin- 
ical tradition  to  Joshua,  and  at  the  same  time  identify- 
ing Joasli  and  Sarapli,  mentioned  in  the  same  verse,  with 
Mahlon  and  Chilion.  Jerome  quotes  a Hebrew  legend 
that  Jokim  w\as  Elimelecli,  the  husband  of  Naomi,  in 
whose  days  the  sun  stood  still  on  account  of  the  trans- 
gressors of  the  law  (Qwest.  Heb.  in  Paral.y'  (Smith). 

Jok'meam  (Heb.  Yokmeatn'  .'ZVfl'pf.  gathering  of 
the  people ; in  1 Kings  iv,  12,  Sept.  ltypdan  v.  r.  Aop- 
icop,Vulg.  Jecmaan,  Auth.  Vers.  “ Jokneam in  1 Chron. 
vi,  68  [53],  ’itKpadv,  Jecmciam ),  a place  elsewhere  call- 


ed Kibzaim  (Josh,  xxi,  22),  but  better  known  as  Jokite- 
am  (Josh,  xii,  22,  etc.). 

Jok'neara  (Heb.  Yoknedm',  E^'3p^,  possession  of 
the  people;  Sept.  ’ItKovap,  Vulg.  Jachanan , Jeconam, 
Jecnam ),  a royal  city  of  the  Canaanites  (Josh,  xii,  22), 
situated  on  the  southwestern  boundary  of  Zebulon  (but 
not  within  it  [see  Tribe]),  near  Dabbasheth,  and  front- 
ed by  a stream  [the  Kish  on]  (Josh,  xix,  11) ; assigned 
out  of  the  territory  of  Zebulon  to  the  Levites  of  the  fam- 
ily of  Merari  (Josh,  xxi,  34).  From  1 Chron.  vi,  68,  the 
name  appears  to  have  been  in  later  times  written  in  the 
nearly  synonymous  form  of  Jokmeam,  and  it  thus  ap- 
pears (in  the  original)  as  the  boundary  point  of  one  of 
the  purveyorships  of  Solomon  (1  Kings  iv,  12).  It  also 
seems  to  have  been  identical  with  the  Levitieal  city 
Kibzaim  (see  Lightfoot,  Opp.  ii,  233)  in  Mount  Ephraim 
(Josh,  xxi,  22).  Dr.  Robinson  has  lately  identified  it 
with  the  modern  Tell  Kaimon,  a commanding  position 
at  the  foot  of  Mount  Carmel,  across  the  Kishon  from  the 
plain  of  Esdraelon,  and  in  a locality  exactly  agreeing 
with  the  scriptural  data,  and  in  name  and  situation  with 
the  Cyamon  (q.  v.)  of  the  Apocrypha  (Judith  vii,  3),  as 
well  as  with  that  of  the  Cammona  of  Eusebius  and  the 
Cimana  of  Jerome,  although  (in  their  Onomasticon ) they 
profess  ignorance  of  the  site  of  Jokneam  (new7  ed.  of 
Bill.  Researches , iii,  1 15).  Schwarz  (Palest,  p.  91 ) gives 
a conjecture  agreeing  with  the  latter  part  of  this  identi- 
fication. (See  also  Van  de  Velde,  Memoir , p.  326 ; Trist- 
ram, Land  of  Israel,  p.  1 1 9.) 

Jok'shan  (Heb.  Yokshan',  V't*)??’  snarer;  Sept. 
’lt&tj'V.  r.  Tf£di'  or  'hfrorlr),  the  second  son  of  Abra- 
ham and  Keturali,  whose  sons  Sheba  and  Dedan  appear 
to  have  been  the  ancestors  of  the  Sabgeans  and  Dedan- 
ites,  that  peopled  a part  of  Arabia  Felix  (Gen.  xxv,  2, 3 ; 
1 Chron.  i,  32,  33).  B.C.  cir.  2020.  “ If  the  Keturahites 
stretched  across  the  desert  from  the  head  of  the  Ara- 
bian to  that  of  the  Persian  Gulf  (see  Dedan),  then  we 
must  suppose  that  Jokshan  returned  westwards  to  the 
trans-Jordanic  country,  where  are  placed  the  settlements 
of  Lis  sons,  or  at.  least  the  chief  of  their  settlements,  for 
a wide  spread  of  these  tribes  seems  to  be  indicated  in 
the  passages  in  the  Bible  w'hich  make  mention  of  them. 
The  MTitings  of  the  Arabs  are  rarely  of  use  in  the  case 
of  Keturahite  tribes,  whom  they  seem  to  confound  with 
Ishmaelites  in  one  common  appellation.  They  mention 
a dialect  of  Jokshan  (Ynkisli,  who  is  Yokslnin,  as  having 
been  formerly  spoken  near ’Aden  and  El-Jened,  in  South- 
ern Arabia:  Yakut’s  Moajam,  cited  in  the  Zeitschrift 
d.  Deutseh.  Morgenl.  Gesellschaft,  viii,  600-1 ; x,  30-1)  ; 
but  that  Midianites  penetrated  so  far  into  the  peninsula 
we  hold  to  be  highly  improbable”  (Smith).  “ Knobtl 
(Genes,  p.  188)  suggests  that  the  name  Jokshan  may 
have  passed  into  Kashan  ('( — ‘p),  and  that  his  descend- 
ants w7ere  the  Cassanitre  (KaaaavlTat)  of  Ptolemy  (vi, 
7,  6)  and  Stepli.  Byzant.  (s.  v.),  the  Cusundres  (K aarar- 
tiptiz)  of  Agatliarchides  (p.  6,  ed.  IIuds.),the  Gasandres 
(rcteRm’ipitc)  of  Diod.  Sic.  (iii,  44),  and  the  Casani  or 
Gasani  of  Pliny  (Hist.  Xut.  vi,  82),  who  dwelt  by  the 
Red  Sea,  to  the  south  of  the  Ciusedocolpites,  and  ex- 
tended to  the  most  northern  of  the  Joktanites”  (Kitto). 
See  Arabia. 

Jok'tan  (Heb.  Yoktan',  “jEp^1,  little;  Sept,  ’lucrdv ; 
Josephus  ’lovKrag,  A nt.  i,  6, 4 ; Vulg.  Jectan),  a Shemite, 
second  named  of  the  two  sons  ofEber,  his  brother  being 
Peleg  (Gen.  x,  25 ; 1 Chron.  i,  19).  B.C.  cir.  2400.  He 
is  mentioned  as  the  progenitor  of  thirteen  sons  or  heads 
of  tribes,  supposed  to  have  resided  in  Southern  Arabia 
(Gen.  x,  26-30) ; 1 Chron.  i,  20-23).  The  Arabians  call- 
ed him  Kahtan,  and  assert  that  from  him  the  eight  orig- 
inal residents  of  Yemen  sprang.  His  name  is  still  point- 
ed out  by  them  near  Keshin  (Niebuhr,  Beschreib.  p.  287), 
and  traces  of  the  same  name  appear  in  a city  mentioned 
by  Niebuhr  (Beschr.  p.  275)  as  lying  three  days’ jour- 
ney north  of  Nejeran,  perhaps  the  station  Jaktan  alluded 
to  by  Edrisi  as  situated  in  the  district  of  Sanaa.  (See 


988 


JOKTIIEEL 


JOKTAX 


A.  Schultcns,  I list . imp.  retust.  Joctanidar.  in  Ar.  Ftl. 
ex  A bulftda , etc.,  I larderov.  17SG ; Pococke,  Specim.  hist. 
Arab.  p.  32  sq.;  Asscmani.  Bibl.  Orient.  Ill,  ii,  553  sq.: 
Bochart’s  Phaleg,  iii,  15.)— Winer,  i,  595. 

The  original  limits  of  the  JoktauicUe  are  stated  in  the 
Ihhle:  “Their  dwelling  was  from  Alesha,  as  thou  gocst 
unto  Sephar,  a mount  of  the  East"  (Gen.  x,  30).  The 
position  cf  Mcslia,  which  is  reasonably  supposed  to  be 
the  western  boundary,  is  still  uncertain  [see  Mesiia]; 
but  Sephar  is  well  established  as  being  the  same  as  Za- 
f.iri  the  sea-port  town  on  the  east  of  the  modern  Yemen, 
and  formerly  one  of  the  chief  centres  of  the  great  In- 
dian and  African  trade.  See  Sepiiar. 

1.  The  native  traditions  respecting  Joktan  himself 
commence  with  a difficulty.  The  ancestor  of  the  great 
southern  peoples  was  called  Kahtan,  who,  say  the  Arabs, 
was  the  same  as  Joktan.  To  this  some  European  crit- 
ics have  objected  that  there  is  no  good  reason  to  ac- 
count for  the  change  of  name,  and  that  the  identifica- 
tion of  Kahtan  with  Joktan  is  evidently  a Jewish  tra- 
dition adopted  by  Mohammed  or  his  followers,  and  con- 
sequently at  or  after  the  promulgation  of  El-Islam.  M. 

( 'anssin  dc  Perceval  commences  his  essay  on  the  history 
of  Yemen  (Essai,  i,  39)  with  this  assertion,  and  adds, 

“ Le  nom  dc  Cahtitn,  disent-ils  [les  Arabes],  est  le  nom 
dc  Y’cctan,  legercmcnt  altere  en  passant  d’une  langue 
otrangere  dans  la  langue  Arabc."  In  reply  to  these  ob- 
jectors, we  may  state : 

(1.)  The  Rabbins  hold  a tradition  that  Joktan  settled 
in  India  (see  Joseph.  Ant.  i,  6,4),  and  the  supposition  of 
a Jewish  influence  in  the  Arab  traditions  respecting 
him  is  therefore  untenable.  In  the  present  case,  even 
were  this  not  so,  there  is  an  absence  of  motive  for  Mo- 
hammed’s adopting  traditions  which  alienate  from  the 
race  of  Ishmael  many  tribes  of  Arabia:  the  influence 
here  suspected  may  rather  be  found  in  the  contradictory 
assertion,  put  forward  by  a few  of  the  Arabs,  and  reject-  I 
cd  by  the  great  majority  and  the  most  judicious  of  their 
historians,  that  Kahtan  was  descended  from  Ishmael. 

(2.)  That  the  traditions  in  question  are  post-Moliam- 
medan  cannot  be  proved ; the  same  may  be  said  of  ev- 
erything which  Arab  writers  tell  us  dates  before  the 
prophet’s  time;  for  then  oral  tradition  alone  existed,  if 
we  except  the  rock-cut  inscriptions  of  the  llimyarites, 
whicli  are  too  few,  and  our  knowledge  of  them  is  too 
slight  to  admit  of  much  weight  attaching  to  them. 

__  (3-)  In  the  Mir-ut  ez-Zeman  it  is  stated,  “Ibn  El- 
Kclbl  says,  Yuktan  [the  Arabic  equivalent  of  Joktan] 
is  the  same  as  Kahtan,  son  of  ’Abir,"  i.  e.  Eber,  and  so 
say  the  generality  of  the  Arabs.  El-Beladliirt  says, 
“People  differ  respecting  Kahtan;  some  say  he  is  the 
same  as  Yuktan,  who  is  mentioned  in  the  Pentateuch  ; 
but  the  Arabs  arabicized  his  name,  and  said  Kahtan, 
the  son  of  I ldd  [because  they  identified  their  prophet 
1 1 ltd  with  Eber,  whom  they  call  ’Abir];  and  some  say, 
sou  of  Es-Semeyfa,”  or,  as  is  said  in  one  place  by  the  au- 
thor here  quoted,  “ El-I I emeysa,  the  son  of  Ncbt  [or 
Nabit,  i.  e.  Ncbaioth],  the  son  of  Ismail,"  i.  e.  Ishmael.  ! 
He  then  proceeds,  in  continuation  of  the  former  passage, 

“ Abi-llauileli  ed-Dinawarl  says,  He  is  Kahtan,  the 
son  of  Abir,  and  was  named  Kahtan  only  because  of 
his  suffering  Irom  drought”  [which  is  termed  in  Ara- 
bic Kalit].  ( Mir-ut  ez-Zeman;  account  of  the  sons  of 
Shorn.)  ()f  similar  changes  of  names  l>v  the  Arabs 
there  arc  numerous  instances.  (Sec  the  remarks  occur- 
ring in  the  Koran,  chap,  ii,  24K,  in  the  Expositions  of  Ez- 
/amakhsheri  and  El-Bevdawl.) 

(4.)  If  the  traditions  of  Kahtan  be  rejected  (and  in 
this  rejection  we  cannot  agree),  they  arc,  it  must  be  re- 
membered, immaterial  to  the  fact  that  the  peoples  call- 
ed by  the  Arabs  descendants  of  Kahtan  are  certainly 
.b.ktnnites.  llis  sons’  colonization  of  Southern  Arabia 
1 l»r<>VC(l  by  indisputable  and  undisputed  identifications, 
and  the  great  kingdom  which  there  existed  for  many 
ages  before  our  a*r«,  and  in  its  later  days  was  renowned 
in  the  world  of  classical  antiquity,  was  as  surely  Jok- 
tanitie.  * J 


2.  The  settlements  of  the  sons  of  Joktan  are  exam- 
ined in  the  separate  articles  bearing  their  names,  and 
generally  in  Arabia.  They  colonized  the  whole  of  the 
south  of  the  peninsula,  the  old  “Arabia  Felix,”  or  the 
Yemen  (for  this  appellation  had  a very  wide  signifi- 
cance in  early  times),  stretching,  according  to  the  Arabs 
(and  there  is  in  this  case  no  ground  for  doubting  their 
general  correctness),  to  Mekkeh  on  the  north-west,  and 
along  nearly  the  whole  of  the  southern  coast  eastwards, 
and  far  inland.  At  Mekkeh  tradition  connects  the  two 
great  races  of  Joktan  and  Ishmael  by  the  marriage  of  a 
daughter  of  Jurhum  the  Joktanite  with  Ishmael.  It  is 
necessary,  in  mentioning  this  Jurhum,  who  is  called  a 
“ son”  of  Joktan  (Kahtan),  to  observe  that  “son”  in  these 
cases  must  be  regarded  as  signifying  “ descendant,”  and 
that  many  generations  (though  how  many,  or  in  what 
order,  is  not  known)  are  missing  from  the  existing  list 
between  Kahtan  (embracing  the  most  important  time 
of  the  Joktanites)  and  the  establishment  of  the  compar- 
atively modern  Himyaritic  kingdom,  from  this  latter 
date,  stated  by  Canssin,  Essai,  i,  63,  at  B.C.  cir.  100,  the 
succession  of  the  Tubbaas  is  apparently  preserved  to  us. 
At  Mekkeh  the  tribe  of  Jurhum  long  held  the  office  of 
guardians  of  the  Kaabeh,  or  temple,  and  the  sacred  in- 
closurc,  until  they  were  expelled  by  the  Islimaelitcs 
(Kutb  ed-Din,  Hist,  of  Mekkeh,  ed.  Wiistenfeld,  p.  35  and 
39  sq. ; and  Canssin,  Essai , i,  194). 

But  it  was  at  Seba,  the  Biblical  Sheba,  that  the  king- 
dom of  Joktan  attained  its  greatness.  In  the  south- 
western angle  of  the  peninsula,  Sana  (Uzal),  Seba  (She- 
ba), and  Iladramaut  (Hazarmaveth),  all  closely  neigh- 
boring, formed  together  the  principal  known  settlements 
of  the  Joktanites.  Here  arose  the  kingdom  of  Sheba, 
followed  in  later  times  by  that  of  Ilimyar.  The  domi- 
nant tribe  from  remote  ages  seems  to  have  been  that  of 
Seba  (or  Sheba,  the  Sabevi  of  the  Greeks),  while  the 
family  of  Himyar  (llomerite e)  held  the  flrst  place  in  the 
tribe.  The  kingdom  called  that  of  Himyar  we  believe 
to  have  been  merely  a late  phasis  of  the  old  Sheba, 
dating,  both  in  its  rise  and  its  name,  only  shortly  before 
our  a?ra. 

Next  in  importance  to  the  tribe  of  Seba  was  that  of 
Iladramaut,  which,  till  the  fall  of  the  Himyaritic  power, 
maintained  a position  of  independence  and  a direct  line 
of  riders  from  Kahtan  (Caussin,  i,  135-6).  Joktanic 
tribes  also  passed  northwards  to  Hireli,  in  El-Irak,  and 
to  Gliasian,  near  Damascus.  The  emigration  of  these 
and  other  tribes  took  place  on  the  occasion  of  the  rup- 
ture of  a great  dike  (the  dike  of  El-Arim),  above  the 
metropolis  of  Seba;  a catastrophe  that  appears,  from 
the  concurrent  testimony  of  Arabic  writers,  to  have  de- 
vastated a great  extent  of  country,  and  destroyed  the 
city  Ma-rib  or  Seba.  This  event  forms  the  commence- 
ment of  an  a*ra,  the  dates  of  which  exist  in  the  inscrip- 
tions on  the  dike  and  elsewThere ; but  when  we  should 
place  that  commencement  is  still  quite  an  open  ques- 
tion. (See  the  extracts  from  El-MesiUli  and  other  au- 
thorities, edited  by  Schiiltens ; Canssin,  i,  84  sq.) — Smith. 
See  Tnch,  Commentary  on  Genesis  (Halle,  1838),  chap,  x ; 
Knobol,  Volkertafel,  p.  178  sq. ; Ritter,  JIalbinsel  Ara- 
bien,  i,  3H  sq. ; l)r.  Ley,  De  Templi  Meccani  origine  (Ber- 
lin, 1849). 

Jok'theel  (Hebrew  Yokthe'el',  subdued  by 

God),  the  name  of  two  cities. 

1.  (Sept.  v.  r.  Toyapt/jX.)  A town  in  the 

plain  of  Jndali,  mentioned  between  Mizpeh  and  Lachish 
(Josh,  xv,  38).  The  associated  names  indicate  a local- 
ity in  the  district  south-west  or  west  of  Eleutheropolis 
(Keil’s  Commentary,  ad  loc.);  possibly  at  Balin,  a small 
modern  village  a little  south  of  Tell  es-Safieh  (Robin- 
son, Researches , ii,  368). 

2.  (Sept.  ’IfK&o ij\  v.  r.  ’USoijA.)  The  name  given 
by  king  Amaziah  to  Selah,  the  capital  of  Iduma?a,  or 
Arabia  Petraea,  and  subsequently  borne  by  it  (2  Kings 
xiv,  7) ; from  which  circumstance  he  appears  to  have 
improved  it  after  having  captured  it.  See  Petra. 


JOLLY 


989 


JONAH 


Jolly,  Alexander,  an  English  prolate,  was  bom  in 
1750.  lie  was  ordained  for  the  ministry  in  1777.  and 
became  pastor  at  Tariff  the  same  year.  In  1778  he  re- 
moved to  Frasersburgh,  where  he  resided  for  forty-nine  1 
years.  In  1790  he  was  elevated  to  the  bishopric  of 
Dundee,  and  later  he  became  bishop  of  Moray,  a see  1 
founded  in  the  12tli  century,  and  which,  after  bishop 
Jolly’s  decease,  was  absorbed  in  other  dioceses.  Tie  died 
in  1838.  Bishop  Jolly’s  works  are,  Baptismal  Regener- 
ation (Lond.  1820;  new  edition,  with  Life  of  author  by 
Chevne,  1840, 12mo) : — Sunday  Sendees  and  Holy  Bays, 
etc.  (1828;  3d  ed.,  with  Memoir  of  author  by  Bp.  Walker, 
Edinb.1840, 12mo)  : — The  Christian  Sacrifice  in  the  Eu- 
charist (1832, 12tno ; 2d  ed.  Aberdeen,  1847, 12mo).  See 
Allibone,  Bid.  of  Engl,  and  American  Authors,  ii,  980. 

Jomtob.  See  Lippmanx. 

Jon,  Francis  Du.  See  Junius. 

Jo'na  (John  i,  42).  See  Jonas. 

Jon'adab,  a shortened  form  of  the  name  Jehona- 
dab,  for  which  it  is  used  indifferently  in  the  Hebrew  as 
applied  to  either  of  two  men  in  certain  passages;  but 
these  have  not  been  accurately  represented  in  the  A.  V., 
which  applies  the  briefer  form  indeed  to  either,  but  the 
full  form  to  but  one  in  three  of  these  passages.  See 
Jeiionadab. 

1.  The  son  of  Shimeah  and  nephew  of  David  (A.  V. 
correctly  in  2 Sam.  xiii,  3 twice,  32,  35;  incorrectly  in 
ver.  5,  where  the  Hebrew  has  Jelionadab). 

2.  The  Bechabite  (Jer.  xxxv,  G.  10,  19;  incorrectly 
in  verse  8, 14, 10, 18). 

Jo'nah  (Heb.  Tonak',  n3“P,  a dove,  as  often,  but  in 
that  sense  fern.,  Sept,  ‘hovd  in  2 Kings  xiv,  25;  else- 
where and  in  the  X.  T.  Twp«c : see  Jonas),  the  son  of 
Amittai,  the  fifth  in  order  of  the  minor  prophets.  Xo 
a?ra  is  assigned  to  him  in  the  book  of  his  prophecy,  yet 
there  is  little  doubt  of  his  being  the  same  person  who  is 
spoken  of  in  2 Kings  xiv,  25  as  having  uttered  a proph- 
ecy of  the  relief  of  the  kingdom  of  Israel,  which  was  ac- 
complished by  Jeroboam’s  recapture  of  the  ancient  ter- 
ritory of  the  northern  tribes  between  Ccele-Svria  and 
the  Glior  (compare  ver.  29).  The  Jewish  doctors  have 
supposed  him  to  be  the  son  of  the  widow  of  Sarepta  by 
a puerile  interpretation  of  1 Kings  xvii,  24  (Jerome, 
Prcefat.  in  Jonani).  His  birthplace  was  Gath-liepher, 
in  the  tribe  of  Zebulon  (2  Kings  xiv,  25).  Jonah  nour- 
ished in  or  before  the  reign  of  Jeroboam  II  (B.C.  cir. 
820),  since  he  predicted  the  successful  conquests,  en- 
larged territory,  and  brief  prosperity  of  the  Israelitish 
kingdom  under  that  monarch’s  sway  (comp.  Josephus, 
Ant.  ix,  10,  1).  The  oracle  itself  is  not  extant,  though 
Hitzig  has,  by  a novel  process  of  criticism,  amused  him- 
self with  a fancied  discovery  of  it  in  chaps,  xv  and  xvi 
of  Isaiah  ( Iks  Propli.  Jon.  Orakel.  iiber  Moab  kritisch 


more  probably  (Drake)  Tarsus  in  Cilicia,  a port  of  com- 
mercial intercourse.  The  providence  of  God,  however, 
watched  over  him,  first  in  a storm,  and  then  in  his  being 
swallowed  by  a large  fish  (b“H5  5'n)  for  the  space  of  three 
days  and  three  nights  (see  Ilauber,  Jonas  im  Bauche  des 
Wallfisehes  [Lemg.  1753] ; Delitzscli,  in  Zeitschr.f.  Lu- 
ther. Kirche  u.  Theol.  [1840],  ii,  112  sq. ; Baumgarten, 
ibid.  [1841],  ii,  187 ; Keil,  Bill.  Commentar  zu  d.  Kl.  Pro- 
pheten  [Leipz.  18GG]).  After  his  deliverance  Jonah  ex- 
ecuted his  commission ; and  the  king,  having  heard  of 
his  miraculous  deliverance  (dean  Jackson,  On  the  Creed, 
bk.  ix,  c.  42),  ordered  a general  fast,  and  averted  the 
threatened  judgment.  But  the  prophet,  not  from  per- 
sonal, but  national  feelings,  grudged  the  mercy  shown 
to  a heathen  nation.  He  was  therefore  taught,  by  the 
significant  lesson  of  the  “gourd,”  whose  growth  and  de- 
cay (a  known  fact  to  naturalists:  Lavard’s  Nineveh,  i, 
123,  124)  brought  the  truth  at  once  home  to  him,  that 
he  was  sent  to  testify  by  deed,  as  other  prophets  would 
afterwards  testify  by  word,  of  the  capacity  of  Gentiles  for 
salvation,  and  the  design  of  God  to  make  them  partakers 
of  it.  This  was  “the  sign  of  the  prophet  Jonas”  (Luke 
xi,  29-32),  which  was  given  to  a proud  and  perverse 
generation  of  Jews  after  the  ascension  of  Christ  by  the 
preaching  of  his  apostles.  (See  the  monographs  on 
this  subject  cited  by  llase,  Leben  Jesu,  p.  1G0).  But 
the  resurrection  of  Christ  itself  was  also  shadowed  forth 
in  the  history  of  the  prophets,  as  is  made  certain  to  us 
by  the  words  of  our  Saviour  (see  Jackson  as  above,  bk. 
ix,  c.  40).  Titcomb  ( Bible  Studies,  p.  237,  note)  sees  a 
correspondence  between  Jon.  i,  17  and  IIos.  vi,  2.  Be- 
sides this,  the  fact  and  the  faith  of  Jonah’s  prayer  in 
the  belly  of  the  fish  betokened  to  the  nation  of  Israel 
the  intimation  of  a resurrection  and  of  immortality. 

On  what  portion  of  the  coast  Jonah  was  set  down  in 
safety  we  are  not  informed.  The  opinions  held  as  to 
the  peculiar  spot  by  rabbins  and  other  thanmaturgic 
expositors  need  not  be  repeated.  According  to  modern 
tradition,  it  was  at  the  spot  now  marked  as  Khan  Xebi 
Yunas,  near  Sidon  (Kelly’s  Syria,  p.  302).  The  partic- 
ular plant  (■ji‘1p*1p,  kikayon',  “gourd”)  which  sheltered 
Jonah  was  possibly  the  Picinus,  whose  name  Kiki  is  yet 
preserved  in  some  of  the  tongues  of  the  East.  It  is 
more  likely,  however,  to  have  been  some  climbing  plant 
of  the  gourd  tribe.  The  Sept,  renders  it  ko\okvvSi). 
Jerome  translates  it  hedcra,  but  against  his  better  judg- 
ment and  for  fear  of  giving  offence  to  the  critics  of  his 
age,  as  he  quietly  adds  in  justification  of  his  less  prefer- 
able rendering,  “ Sed  timuimus  grammaticos.”  (See  an 
! elucidation  of  the  passage  in  the  Beitr.  zur  BefOrd.  etc. 
1 xix,  p.  183.)  See  Gourd. 

Various  spots  have  been  pointed  out  as  the  place  of 
his  sepulchre,  such  as  Mosul  in  the  East,  and  Gath-lie- 


vindiciri,  etc.,  Heidelb.  1831). 

The  personal  history  of  Jo- 
nah is,  with  the  exception  of 
this  incidental  allusion,  to  be 
gathered  from  the  account  in 
the  lwiok  that  bears  his  name. 

Having  already,  as  it  seems 
(from  1 in  i,  1),  prophesied  to 
Israel,  he  was  sent  to  Xineveh. 

The  time  was  one  of  political 
revival  in  Israel;  but  ere  long 
the  Assyrians  were  to  be  em- 
ployed by  God  as  a scourge 
upon  them.  The  Israelites 
consequently  viewed  them 
with  repulsiveness ; and  the 
prophet,  in  accordance  with  his 
name  ( nr-1,  “ a dove”),  out  of  timidity  and  love  for  his  I plier  in  Palestine ; while  the  so-called  Epiphanius  speaks 
country,  shrunk  from  a commission  which  he  felt  sure  ] of  his  retreating  to  Tyre,  and  being  buried  there  in  the 
would  result  (iv,  2)  in  the  sparing  of  a hostile  city.  He  | tomb  of  Cenezasus,  judge  of  Israel.  (See  Otho,  Lexicon 
attempted,  therefore,  to  escape  to  Tarshish,  either  Tar-  Babb.  p.  32G  sq.;  comp.  Ephrrem  Syrus’s  Repentance  of 
tessus  in  Spain  (Bochart,  Titcomb,  Ilengstenberg),  or  , Xineveh,  transl.  by  Dr.  Burgess,  Lond.  1853.)  Apocry- 


“Tomb  of  the  Prophet  Jonah”  at  Mosul. 


JOXAII 


990 


JOXAII 


phal  prophecies  ascribed  to  Jonah  may  be  found  in  the 
pseudo- Epiphani us  (De  Vitis  Prophet,  c.  10)  and  the 
Chronic.  Paschale , pi  149. 

Jonah’s  Pkoimiecy  contains  the  above  account  of 
the  prophet's  commission  to  denounce  Nineveh,  and  of 
his  refusal  to  undertake  die  embassy— of  the  method  he 
employed  to  escape  the  unwelcome  task,  and  the  mirac- 
ulous ’means  which  God  used  to  curb  his  self-willed 
spirit,  and  subdue  his  petulant  and  querulous  disposi- 
tion (Bciildel,  Die  Semhmg  d.  Proph.  Jonas  nach  Xinice. 
I5.unb.  1820).  llis  attempt  to  flee  from  the  presence  of 
the  Lord  seems  like  a partial  insanity,  produced  by  the 
excitement  of  distracting  motives  in  an  irascible  and 
melancholy  heart  (J.  C.  Lange,  Piss,  de  mirahili  fuga 
Jotue , Hal.  1751). 

I.  Historical  Character  of  the  Book. — The  history  of 
Jonah  is  certainly  striking  and  extraordinary.  Its  char- 
acteristic prodigy  does  not  resemble  the  other  mirac- 
ulous phenomena  recorded  in  Scripture,  yet  we  must 
believe  in  its  literal  occurrence,  as  the  Bible  affords  no 
indication  of  its  being  a mvtlius,  allegory,  or  parable 
(I’iper,  Histona  Jonce  a recentior.  conatibns  vindicata, 
Gryph.  178(5).  On  the  other  hand,  our  Saviour’s  point- 
ed and  peculiar  allusion  to  it  is  a presumption  of  its  j 
reality  (Matt,  xii,  40).  The  historical  character  of  the 
narrative  is  held  by  Hess,  Lilienthal,  Sack,  Reindel,  Hav- 
eruiek.  Ilengstenberg,  Labcrenz,  Baumgarten,  Delitzsch, 
Wclte,  Stuart,  and  Keil,  Einleitung,  sec.  89.  (See  Fried- 
richsen,  Krit.  Uebersicht  der  verschied.  Ansichten  von  dem 
Buch  Jonas,  2d  edit.  1841.)  The  opinion  of  the  earlier 
Jews  (Tobit  xiv,  4,  8;  3 Macc.  vi,  8;  Josephus,  Ant.  ix, 
10,  2)  is  also  in  favor  of  the  literalitv  of  the  adventure 
(sec  Buddei  Hist.  V.  Test,  ii,  589  sq.).  It  requires  less 
faith  to  credit  this  simple  excerpt  from  Jonah’s  biogra- 
phy than  to  believe  the  numerous  hypotheses  that  have 
been  invented  to  deprive  it  of  its  supernatural  character, 
the  great  majority  of  them  being  clumsy  and  far-fetch- 
ed, doing  violence  to  the  language,  and  despite  to  the 
spirit  of  revelation  ; distinguished,  too,  by  tedious  ad- 
justments, laborious  combinations,  historical  conjecture, 
and  critical  jugglery.  In  vindication  of  the  realitv  of 
this  striking  narrative,  it  may  be  argued  that  the  allu- 
sions of  Christ  to  Old-Testament  events  on  similar  oc- 
casions  are  to  actual  occurrences  (John  iii,  14;  vi,  48); 
that  the  purpose  which  God  had  in  view  justified  his 
miraculous  interposition;  that  this  miracle  must  have 
had  a salutary  effect  both  on  the  minds  of  the  Ninevites 
and  on  the  people  of  Israel.  Neither  is  the  character 
of  Jonah  improbable.  Many  reasons  might  induce  him 
to  avoid  the  discharge  of  his  prophetic  duty— fear  of 
being  thought  a false  prophet,  scorn  of  a foreign  and 
hostile  race,  desire  for  their  utter  destruction,  a false 
dignity  which  might  reckon  it  beneath  his  prerogative 
to  officiate  among  uncircnmcised  idolaters  (Yerschuir, 
Opnsc.  p.  73,  etc.;  Alber,  Institnt.  Hr  mien.  Yet.  Test.  iii. 
399.  407 ; .lahn,  Introduction  to  the  Old  Testament,  transl. 
bv  Turner,  p.  372.  373,  translator’s  notes;  Laberenz,  De 
Vera.  lib.  dome  Inferp.  Fulda,  1 830). 

Others  regard  this  book  as  an  allegory,  such  as  Ber- 
tholdt  and  llosenm idler,  Gesenius  and  Winer.  Espe- 
cially have  many  deemed  it  a parody  upon  or  even  the 
original  ol  the  various  heathen  fable’s  of  Arion  and  the 
Dolphin  1 1 lorodot.  i,  2 f),  and  the  wild  adventure  of  Her- 
cules which  is  referred  to  in  Lycophron  ( Cassandra , v, 
J.»;  see  I orbiger,  De  Lyenphr.  Cassandra  c.  epi metro  de 
Join/,  Lips.  1827 ; comp.  Hind,  xx,  145,  xxi,  442;  Diod. 
Su;  * v*  l-  5 I’h  ilostr.  ] con.  12;  II  vgin.  Fab.  89 ; Apollod! 
n.  .1,9)  and  Perseus  (Apollod.  ii.  4,3;  ( >vid,  Met  am.  iv, 
hi*2  sq. ; llygin.  (54;  Phot.  Cod.  18(5,  p.  231),  Joppa  be- 
ing even  famous  as  the  scene  of  Andromeda’s  exposure 
(Pliny,  y,  14,34;  ix,  4;  Strabo,  xvi,  759).  Cyrill  Al- 
cx  ind.,  in  his  Comment,  in  Jon.,  notices  this  similitude 
between  the  incident  of  Jonah  and  the  fabled  enter- 
prise of  the  son  of  Alcmena  (sec  Allat.  Excerpt,  var.  p. 

1 ; Eudoeia  Viol,  in  Villoison’s  A tier.  (}r.  i.  344;  An- 
ton, f'ompnratin  libmrum  V.  T.  et  scriptor.  profan.  cet. 
p.  10,  Gorlic.  1831 ; compare,  too,  Theophylaet,  Opp.  iv, 


169).  Bleek  justly  says  ( Einleit . p.  576)  that  there  is 
not  the  smallest  probability  of  the  story  of  Jonah’s  tem- 
porary sojourn  in  the  belly  of  the  whale  having  been 
either  mediately  or  immediately  derived  from  those 
Greek  fables.  F.  von  Banr’s  hypothesis  of  the  story  of 
the  hook  being  a compound  of  some”popular  Jewish  tra- 
1 ditions  and  the  Babylonian  myth  respecting  a sea  mon- 
ster Cannes,  and  the  fast  for  Adonis,  is  now  universally 
j regarded  as  exploded.  For  further  discussion  of  this  part 
of  Jonah’s  history,  see  Gesenius,  in  the  Hall.  Lit.-Zeit. 
1813,  No.  23;  Friedriclisen,  Krit.  Ueberblick  der  A nsich- 
ten rom  Jonas  (Leipz.  1841) ; Delitzsch,  in  Rudelbach’s 
Zeitschrift , 1840,  ii,  112  sq.  These  legendary  parallels 
may  be  seen  drawn  out  at  length  by  professor  .Stowe  in 
the  Bibliotheca  Sacra  for  Oct.  1853,  p.  744  sq.  See 
Joppa. 

Some,  who  cannot  altogether  reject  the  reality  of  the 
narrative,  suppose  it  to  have  had  a historical  basis, 
though  its  present  form  be  fanciful  or  mythical.  Such 
an  opinion  is  the  evident  result  of  a mental  struggle  be- 
tween receiving  it  as  a real  transaction,  or  regarding  it 
as  wholly  a Action  (Goldliorn,  Exclirs.  z.  B.  Jon.  p.  28; 
Friedrichsen,  Krit.  Ueberblick  der  Ansichten  B.  Jon.  p. 
219).  Grimm,  in  bis  Uebersetz.  p.  61,  regards  it  as  a 
dream  produced  in  that  sleep  which  fell  upon  Jonah  as 
he  lay  in  the  sides  of  the  ship.  The  fanciful  opinion 
of  the  famous  Herman  von  der  Ilardt,  in  his  Jonas  in 
luce,  etc.,  a full  abstract  of  which  is  given  by  Ilosenmiil- 
ler  ( Prolegom . in  Jonam,  p.  19),  was,  that  the  book  is  a 
historical  allegory,  descriptive  of  the  fate  of  Manas- 
seh,  and  Josiah  bis  grandson,  kings  of  Judali.  Tar- 
shish,  according  to  him,  represents  the  kingdom  of 
Lydia ; the  ship,  the  Jewish  republic,  whose  captain  was 
Zadok  the  high-priest ; while  the  casting  of  Jonah  into 
the  sea  symbolized  the  temporary  captivity  of  Manas- 
seli  in  Babylon.  Less  (lorn  historischen  Styl  der  Ur- 
welf)  supposed  that  all  difficulty  might  be  removed  by 
imagining  that  Jonah,  when  thrown  into  the  sea,  was 
taken  up  by  a ship  having  a large  fish  for  a figure-head 
— a theory  somewhat  more  pleasing  than  the  rancid  hy- 
pothesis of  Anton,  who  fancied  that  the  prophet  took 
refuge  in  the  interior  of  a dead  whale,  floating  near  the 
spot  where  he  was  cast  overboard  (Rosenm.  Prolegom. 
in  Jon.  p.  328).  Not  unlike  the  opinion  of  Less  is  that 
of  Charles  Taylor,  in  his  Fragments  affixed  to  Calmei’s 
Dictionary,  No.  cxlv.,  that  rn  signifies  a life-preserver, 
a notion  which,  as  his  manner  is,  he  endeavors  to  sup- 
port by  mythological  metamorphoses  founded  on  the 
form  and  names  of  the  famous  fish-god  of  Philistia. 
There  are  others  who  allow,  as  De  "Wctte  and  Knobel, 
that  Jonah  was  a real  person,  but  bold  that  the  book  is 
made  up,  for  didactic  purposes,  of  legendary  stories  which 
had  gathered  around  him.  A slender  basis  of  fact  has 
been  allowed  by  some  — by  Bunsen,  for  example,  who, 
strangely  enough,  fixes  upon  the  very  portion  which  to 
most  of  his  rationalistic  countrymen  bears  the  clearest 
marks  of  spuriousness,  as  the  one  genuine  part  of  the 
whole — Jonah’s  thanksgiving  from  the  perils  of  ship- 
wreck (as  Bunsen  judges);  and  thinks  that  some  one 
had  mistaken  the  matter,  and  fabricated  out  of  it  the 
present  story — by  others,  such  as  Krahmer  ( Das  Buck 
Jonas,  i nt rod.),  who  suppose  that  Jonah  was  known  to 
have  uttered  a prophecy  against  Nineveh,  and  to  have 
been  impatient  at  the  delay  which  appeared  in  the  ful- 
filment, and  was  hence,  for  didactic  purposes,  made  the 
hero  of  the  story. 

Hut  the  more  common  opinion  in  the  present  day 
with  this  school  of  divines  is,  that  the  story  is  purely 
moral,  and  without  any  historical  foundation ; nor  can 
any  clew  be  found  or  imagined  in  the  known  history  of 
the  times  why  Jonah  in  particular,  a prophet  of  Israel 
in  the  latter  stages  of  the  kingdom,  should  have  been 
chjsen  as  the  ground  of  the  instruction  meant  to  be 
conveyed.  So  Ewald,  Bleek,  etc.,  who,  however,  differ 
in  some  respects  as  to  the  specific  aim  of  the  book,  while 
they  agree  as  to  its  lion-historical  character.  In  short, 
that  the  book  is  the  grotesque  coinage  of  a Hebrew  im- 


JONAH 


991 


JOXAII 


agination  seems  to  be  the  opinion,  variously  modified, 
of  Sender,  Micliaelis,  Herder,  Stiiudlin,  Eiehhorn,  Au- 
gust!, Meyer,  Pareau,  Hitzig,  and  Maurer. 

The  plain,  literal  import  of  the  narrative  being  set 
aside  with  misapplied  ingenuity,  the  supposed  design 
of  it  has  been  very  variously  interpreted.  Micliaelis 
(Uebersetz.  d.  N.  T.  part  xi,  p.  101)  and  Sender  (Apparat. 
ad  Lib.  Vet.  Test.  Interpret,  p.  271)  supposed  the  narra- 
tive to  be  intended  to  show  the  injustice  of  the  arrogance 
and  hatred  cherished  by  the  Jews  towards  other  nations. 
So  in  substance  Bleek.  Similarly  Eiehhorn  (Einleit. 
§ 577)  and  Jahn  ( Introduct . § 127)  think  the  design  was 
to  teach  the  Jews  that  other  people  with  less  privileges 
excelled  them  in  pious  obedience.  Kegel  ( Libel  d.  A . 
und  N.  Test,  vii,  129  sq.)  argues  that  this  episode  was 
meant  to  solace  and  excite  the  prophets  under  the  dis- 
charge of  difficidt  and  dangerous  duties  ; while  Panins 
(Memorabilia,  vi,  32  sq.)  maintains  that  the  object  of 
the  author  of  Jonah  is  to  impress  the  fact  that  God  re- 
mits punishment  on  repentance  and  reformation.  Sim- 
ilar is  the  idea  of  Kimchi  and  Pareau  ( Interpretation  of 
Old  Testament,  Biblical  Cabinet,  No.  xxv.  p.  2(13).  Krah- 
mcr  thinks  that  the  theme  of  the  writer  is  the  Jewish 
colony  in  its  relation  to  the  Samaritans  ( Das  B.  Jon. 
Krit.  untersueht,  p.  65).  Maurer  ( Comment . in  Proph. 
Min.)  adheres  to  the  opinion  which  lies  upon  the  sur- 
face, that  it  inculcates  the  sin  of  not  obeying  God,  even 
in  pronouncing  severe  threatenings  on  a heathen  peo- 
ple. Ewald  would  make  the  design  quite  general, 
namely,  to  show  how  the  true  fear  of  God  and  repent- 
ance bring  salvation — first,  in  the  case  of  the  heathen 
sailors;  then  in  the  case  of  Jonah;  finally,  in  that  of 
the  Ninevites.  Ilitzig  (first  in  a separate  treatise,  then 
in  his  commentary  on  the  minor  prophets)  supposes  the 
book  to  have  been  written  by  some  one  in  the  4th  cen- 
tury before  Christ,  “ in  Egypt,  that  land  of  wonders,” 
and  chiefly  for  the  purpose  of  vindicating  Jehovah  for 
having  failed  to  verify  the  prophecy  in  Obadiah  re- 
specting the  heathen  Edomites.  Similarly,  Koster  (Pie 
Prophefen  des  A . und  X.  Test.,  Leipz.  1839)  favors  the 
malignant  insinuation  that  its  chief  end  was  to  save  the 
credit  of  the  prophets  among  the  people,  though  their 
predictions  against  foreign  nations  might  not  be  fulfill- 
ed, as  Nineveh  was  preserved  after  being  menaced  and 
doomed. 

These  hypotheses  are  all  vague  and  baseless,  and  do 
not  merit  a special  refutation.  Endeavoring  to  free  us 
from  one  difficulty,  they  plunge  us  into  others  yet  more 
intricate  and  perplexing.  We  notice  the  principal  ex- 
ternal objections  that  have  been  brought  against  the 
book. 

(1.)  Much  profane  wit  lias  been  expended  on  the  mi- 
raculous means  of  Jonah’s  deliverance,  very  unnecessa- 
rily and  very  absurdly;  it  is  simply  said,  “The  Lord 
had  prepared  a great  fish  to  swallow  up  Jonah.”  Now 
the  species  of  marine  animal  is  not  defined,  and  the 
Greek  Ki}rog  is  often  used  to  specify,  not  the  genus 
whale,  but  any  large  fish  or  sea-monster.  All  objec- 
tions to  its  being  a whale  which  lodged  Jonah  in  its 
stomach,  from  its  straitness  of  throat  or  rareness  of 
haunt  in  the  Mediterranean,  arc  thus  removed.  Ile- 
sychius  explains  kijtoq  as  GaXderaiog  I’ycb'c  irapyeyeOgg. 
Eustathius  explains  its  correspondent  adjective  K>)Tibea- 
<t av  by  (in  the  Iliad,  ii,  581).  Diodorus  Sicu- 

lm  speaks  of  terrestrial  monsters  as  kijtwci}  a,  and 
describes  a huge  fish  as  icr/rog  cittkttov  to  pkyeQog. 
The  Scripture  thus  speaks  only  of  an  enormous  fish, 
which  under  God’s  direction  swallowed  the  prophet,  and 
does  not  point  out  the  species  to  which  the  voracious 
prowler  belonged.  There  is  little  ground  for  the  sup- 
position of  bishop  Jebb,  that  the  asylum  of  Jonah  was 
not  in  the  stomach  of  a whale,  but  in  a cavity  of  its 
throat,  which,  according  to  naturalists,  is  a very  capa- 
cious receptacle,  sufficiently  large,  as  captain  Scoresby 
asserts,  to  contain  a merchant  ship’s  jolly-boat  full  of 
men  (bishop  Jebb,  Sacred  Literature,  p.  178).  Since 
the  days  of  Bochart  it  has  been  a common  opinion  that 


the  fish  was  of  the  shark  species,  Lamia  cams  carcha- 
7'ias,  or  “ sea-dog”  (Bochart,  Op.  iii,  72 ; Calmet’s  Dis- 
sertation sur  Jon.).  Entire  human  bodies  have  been 
found  in  some  fishes  of  this  kind.  The  stomach,  too, 
has  no  influence  on  any  living  substance  admitted  into 
it.  Granting  all  these  facts  as  proof  of  what  is  termed 
the  economy  of  miracles,  still  must  we  say,  in  reference 
to  the  supernatural  preservation  of  Jonah,  Is  anything 
too  hard  for  the  Lord?  Sec  Whale. 

(2.)  What  is  said  about  the  size  of  Nineveh,  also,  is  in 
accordance  with  fact  (see  Piet.  Bible,  note,  ad  loc.).  It 
was  “an  exceeding  great  city  of  three  days’ journey.” 
Built  in  the  form  of  a parallelogram,  it  made,  according 
to  Diodorus  (ii,  7),  a circuit  of  480  furlongs,  or  about  GO 
miles.  It  has  been  usual,  since  the  publication  of  Lay- 
ard’s  Nineveh,  to  say  that  the  great  ruins  of  Koyimjik, 
Nimrud,  Kcrcmles,  and  Khorsabad  form  such  a paral- 
lelogram, the  distances  from  north  to  south  being  about 
18  miles,  and  from  east  to  west  about  12;  the  longer 
sides  thus  measuring  36  miles,  and  the  shorter  ones  24. 
But  against,  this  view  professor  Bawlinson  has  recently 
urged,  with  considerable  force,  that  the  four  great  ruins 
bore  distinct  local  titles;  that  Nimrud,  identified  with 
Calah,  is  mentioned  in  Scripture  as  a place  so  far  sep- 
arated from  Nineveh  that  “a  great  city” — llesen — lay 
between  them  (Gen.  x,  12);  that  there  are  no  signs  of 
a continuous  town;  and  that  the  four  sites  are  fortified 
“on  what  would  be  the  inside  of  the  city.”  Still  Nine- 
veh, as  represented  by  the  ruins  of  Koyunjik  and  Neb- 
bi-Yumis,  or  Tomb  of  Jonah,  was  of  an  oblong  shape, 
with  a circuit  of  about  eight  miles,  and  was  therefore  a 
place  of  unusual  size — “ an  exceeding  great  city.”  The 
phrase,  “ three  days’  journey,”  may  mean  that  it  would 
take  that  time  to  traverse  the  city  and  proclaim  through 
all  its  localities  the  divine  message;  and  the  emphatic 
point  then  is,  that  at  the  end  of  his  first  day’s  journey 
the  preaching  of  Jonah  took  effect.  The  clause,  “ that 
cannot  discern  their  right  hand  from  their  left  hand,” 
probably  denotes  children,  and  120,000  of  these  might 
represent  a population  of  more  than  half  a million  (Kaw- 
linson’s  Fivg  Great  Monarchies,  i,  310 ; Sir  Henry  Baw- 
linson’s  Comment,  on  Cuneif.  Inscriptions,  p.  17 ; Captain 
Jones’s  Topography  of  Nineveh , in  the  Jour,  of  A s.  So- 
ciety, xv,  298).  Jonah  entered  the  city  “a  day’s  jour- 
ney,” that  is,  probably  went  from  west  to  east  uttering 
his  incisive  and  terrible  message.  The  sublime  audac- 
ity of  the  stranger — the  ringing  monotony  of  his  sharp, 
short  cry — had  an  immediate  effect.  The  story  of  his 
wonderful  deliverance  had  perhaps  preceded  him  (Thom- 
son, Land  and  Book,  i,  100).  The  people  believed  God, 
and  proclaimed  a fast,  and  man  and  beast  fasted  alike. 
The  exaggeration  ascribed  to  this  picture  adds  to  its 
credibility,  so  prone  is  Oriental  nature  to  extremes.  If 
the  burden  of  Jonah  was  to  have  any  effect  at  all,  one 
might  say  that  it  must  be  profound  and  immediate.  It 
was  a panic — we  dare  not  call  it  a revival,  or,  with  Dr. 
Pusey,  dignify  it  into  conversion.  There  was  plainly 
no  permanent  result.  After  the  sensation  had  passed 
away,  idolatry  and  rapacity  resumed  their  former  sway, 
as  is  testified  by  the  prophets  Isaiah,  Naluim,  and  Zepli- 
aniali ; yet.  the  appalled  conscience  of  Nineveh  did  con- 
fess its  “evil  and  its  violence”  as  it  grovelled  in  the 
dust.  Various  causes  may  have  contributed  to  deepen 
this  consternation— the  superstition  of  the  people,  and 
, the  sudden  and  unexplained  appearance  of  the  foreigner 
with  his  voice  of  doom.  “ The  king,"  as  Layard  says, 
“ might  believe  him  to  be  a special  minister  from  the 
supreme  deity  of  the  nation,”  and  it  was  only  “ when 
the  gods  themselves  seemed  to  interpose  that  any  check 
was  placed  on  the  royal  pride  and  lust.”  Layard  adds, 
“ It  was  not  necessary  to  the  effect  of  his  preaching  that 
Jonah  should  be  of  the  religion  of  the  people  of  Nine- 
veh. I have  known  a Christian  priest  frighten  a whole 
Mussulman  town  to  tents  and  repentance  by  publicly 
proclaiming  that  he  had  received  a divine  mission  to 
announce  a coming  earthquake  or  plague”  (Nineveh  and, 
Babylon,  p.  632).  The  compulsory  mourning  of  the 


992 


JONAH 


JONAH 


brute  creation  nas  at  least  one  analogy  in  the  lamenta- 
tion made  over  the  Persian  general  Mnsistius : The 
horses  and  beasts  of  burden  were  shaved  (Herodotus, 
ix  M)  According  to  Plutarch,  also,  Alexander  com- 
manded the  observance  of  a similar  custom  on  the  death 
of  Ilcphiestion.  Therefore,  in  the  accessories  of  the 
narrative  there  is  no  violation  of  probability— all  is  in 
accordance  with  known  customs  and  facts.  See  Nine- 

(3.)  It  has  appeared  to  some,  in  particular  to  Bleek 
( Kittle  it . p.  571),  improbable,  and  against  the  historical 
verity  of  this  book,  that  on  the  supposition  of  all  that  is 
here  related  having  actually  occurred,  there  should  be 
in  the  relation  of  them  such  a paucity  of  circumstantial 
details — nothing  said,  for  instance,  of  the  place  where 
Jonah  was  discharged  on  dry  land,  or  of  the  particular 
king  who  then  reigned  at  Nineveh — and  not  only  so, 
but  no  apparent  reference  in  the  future  allusions  to  Nin- 
eveh in  Scripture,  to  the  singular  change  (if  so  be  it 
actually  took  place)  wrought  through  the  preaching  of 
Jonah  on  the  religious  and  moral  state  of  the  people. 
These  are  still  always  regarded  as  idolaters,  and  the 
judgments  of  God  uttered  against  them,  as  if  they  stood 
in  much  the  same  position  with  the  heathen  enemies 
generally  of  God’s  cause  and  people.  It  may  fairly  be 
admitted  that  there  is  a certain  degree  of  strangeness 
in  such  things,  which,  if  it  were  not  in  accordance  with 
the  character  both  of  the  man  and  of  the  mission,  and 
in  these  found  a kind  of  explanation,  might  not  unnat- 
urally give  rise  to  some  doubts  of  the  credibility  of 
what  is  written.  But  Jonah’s  relation  to  Nineveh  was 
altogether  of  a special  and  peculiar  nature;  it  stood 
apart  from  the  regular  calling  of  a prophet  and  the  or- 
dinary dealings  of  God;  and  having  for  its  more  speci- 
fic object  the  instruction  and  warning  of  the  covenant- 
people  in  a very  critical  period  of  their  affairs,  the  reserve 
maintained  as  to  local  and  historical  details  may  have 
been  designed,  as  it  was  certainly  fitted,  to  make  them 
think  less  of  the  parties  immediately  concerned,  and 
more  of  what  through  these  God  was  seeking  to  impress 
upon  themselves.  The  whole  was  a kind  of  parabolical 
action;  and  beyond  a certain  limit  circumstantial  mi- 
nuteness would  have  tended  to  mar,  rather  than  to  pro- 
mote, the  leading  aim.  Then,  as  to  the  change  pro- 
duced upon  the  Ninevites,  we  are  led  from  the  nature 
of  the  case  to  think  chiefly  of  the  more  flagrant  iniqui- 
ties as  the  evils  more  particularly  cried  against;  and 
Israel  itself  afforded  many  examples  of  general  refor- 
mations in  respect  to  these,  of  whieh  little  or  no  trace 
was  to  he  found  in  the  course  even  of  a single  genera- 
tion. Much  more  might  such  be  expected  to  have  hap- 
pened in  the  ease  of  Nineveh. 

II.  Slyle,  Date,  etc. — The  book  of  Jonah  is  a simple 
narrative,  with  the  exception  of  the  prayer  or  thanks- 
giving in  chap.  ii.  Its  style  and  mode  of  narration  are 
uniform.  There  are  no  traces  of  compilation,  as  Nachti- 
gall  supposed ; neither  is  the  prayer,  as  l)e  Wctte  (Kin- 
h'if • § -37 ) imagines,  improperly  borrowed  from  some 
other  sources.  That  prayer  contains,  indeed,  not  only 
imagery  peculiar  to  itself,  but  also  such  imagery  as  at 
once  was  suggested  to  the  mind  of  a pious  Hebrew  pre- 
served in  circumstances  of  extreme  jeopardy.  On  this 
principle  we  account  for  the  similarity  of  some  portions 
of  its  phraseology  to  Psa,  lix,  xlii,  etc.  The  language 
in  both  places  had  been  hallowed  by  frequent  usage,  and 
bad  become  the  consecrated  idiom  of  a distressed  and 
succored  Israelite.  Perhaps  the  prayer  of  Jonah  might 
he  uttered  by  him,  not  during  his  mysterious  imprison- 
ment, but  after  it  (Pijnn  z , out,  i.  e.  when  out  of 

the  ji*h's  belly ; comp.  Job  xix,’  26 ; xi,  15).  The  hymn 
seems  to  have  been  composed  after  his  deliverance,*  and 
the  reason  why  his  deliverance  is  noted  after  the  hymn 
is  recorded  may  he  to  show  the  occasion  of  its  composi- 
tion. “Thu  Ijord  had  spoken  unto  the  fish,  and  it  had 
vomited  Jonah  on  the  dry  land!”  (See  further  Hau- 
lier, in  his  /lib/.  Betracht unyen,  Lemgo,  1753 ; also  an  ar- 
ticle on  the  subject  in  the  Brit.  Theul . May.  i,  3,  p.  18.) 


There  was  little  reason  either  for  dating  the  compo- 
sition of  this  book  later  than  the  age  of  Jonah,  or  for 
supposing  it  the  production  of  another  than  the  prophet 
himself.  The  Chaklaisms  which  Jahn  and  others  find 
may  be  accounted  for  by  the  nearness  of  the  canton  of 
Zebulon,  to  which  Jonah  belonged,  to  the  northern  ter- 
ritory, whence  by  national  intercourse  Aramaic  pecul- 
iarities might  be  insensibly  borrowed.  (Thus  we  have 
n"iO  — a ship  with  a deck — not  the  more  common 
Hebrew  term;  — a foreign  title  applied  to  the  cap- 
tain; rti'a,  to  appoint  — found,  however,  in  Psa.  lxi,  a 
psalm  which  Hupfeld  without  any  valid  grounds  places 
after  the  Babylonian  captivity;  to  commatul,  as 

in  the  later  books;  Ci‘a,  command , referring  to  the 
royal  decree,  and  probably  taken  from  the  native  As- 
syrian tongue;  “ITH,  to  row , a nautical  term;  and  the 
abbreviated  form  of  the  relative,  which,  however,  occurs 
in  other  books,  etc.)  Gesenius  and  Bertholdt  place  it 
before  the  exile ; Jahn  and  Kbster  after  it.  Rosenm fil- 
ler supposes  the  author  may  have  been  a contemporary 
of  Jeremiah ; Hitzig  postpones  it  to  the  period  of  the 
Maccabees.  The  general  opinion  is  that  Jonah  was  the 
first  of  the  prophets  (Rosenmiiller,  Bp.  Lloyd,  Davison, 
Browne,  Drake):  Hengstenberg  would  place  him  after 
Amos  and  Hosea,  and,  indeed,  adheres  to  the  order  of 
the  books  in  the  canon  for  the  chronology.  He,  as  well 
as  Hitzig,  would  identify  the  author  with  that  of  Oba- 
diah,  chiefly  on  account  of  the  initial  “ and.”  The  king 
of  Nineveh  at  this  time  is  supposed  (Usher  and  others) 
to  have  been  Pul,  who  is  placed  by  Layard  (Xin.  and 
Bab.  p.  624)  at  B.C.  750;  but  an  earlier  king,  Adramme- 
lech  II,  B.C.  *40,  is  regarded  as  more  probable  by  Drake. 
— Kitto;  Smith;  Fairbaim.  The  date  above  assigned 
to  Jonah  would  seem  to  indicate  the  husband  of  the 
famous  Semiramis.  See  Assyria. 

III.  Commentaries, — The  following  are  the  special 
exegetical  helps  expressly  pn  the  whole  book,  the  most 
important  of  whieh  we  designate  by  prefixing  an  aste- 
risk: Ephraem  Syrus,  In  Jonam  (in  Opp.  iii,  5G2 ; transl. 
from  the  Syriac  by  Burgess,  Homily,  Lund.  1*53, 12mo) ; 
Basil,  In  Jonam  (in  Opp.  p.  66) ; Tertullian,  Carmen  (in 
Opp.  p.  576);  Theopliylact,  Commentarius  (in  Opp.  iv); 
Brentius,  Commentarius  (in  Opp.  iv)  , Luther,  .1  usleyuny 
(Wittcub.  1526,  4to  and  *vo;  Erf.  1526,  1531,  8vo;  also 
in  Werke,  Witten b.  ed.  v,  310 ; Jen.  iii,  214;  Alt.  iii,  351 ; 
Lpz.  viii,  516;  Hal.  vi,  496;  in  Latin,  by  Jonas,  in  Opp. 
Viteinb.  iv,404 ; and  separately  by  Opsopauis,  Hag.  1526, 
*vo ; and  Lonekci,  Argent.  1526,  *vo) ; Artopoais,  Com- 
mentarius  (Stet.  1545,  Basil.  155*,  *vo) ; Bugenhagen, 
Expositio  (Vitemb.  1550,  1561,  *vo) ; Hooper,  Sermons 
(London,  1550,  12mo;  also  in  Writinys,  p.  431) ; Ferus, 
Commentarius  (Lugd.  1554,  Antw.  1557,  Yen.  1567,  *vo; 
also  in  German,  Coin,  1567,  *vo) ; Willich,  Commenta- 
rius [inchid.  sev.  minor  proph.]  (Basil.  1566,  8 vo) ; Sel- 
i neeker,  A usleyuny  [including  Nahum,  etc.]  (Lpz,  1567, 
4to);  Tuscan,  Commentarius  (Yen.  1573,  *vo) ; Calvin, 
Lectures  (trans.  by  Baxter,  Lond.  1578,  4to);  Pomarius, 
.1  usleyuny  (Magdeb.  1579,  Lpz.  1599,  4to;  Stettin,  1664, 
*vo);  Baron,  Pnelectiones  (ed.  Lake,  Lond.  1579,  folio) ; 
Grynanis,  Enarrafio  (Basil.  15*1,  *vo) ; Schadams,  Sy- 
nopsis (Argent.  15*8,  4to) ; Junius,  Lectiones  (Heidelb. 
1594, 4to;  also  in  Opp.  i,  1327) ; *l\ing,  Lectures  (Lond. 
1594, 1600, 1611, 1618;  Oxf.  1597, 1599, 4to) ; Feuardent, 
Commentarius  (Colon.  1594,  folio;  1595.  *vo)?  Abbott, 
Exposition  (Lond.  1600,  1613,  4to;  1845,  2 vols.  1 2 mo) ; 
Wolderus,  Diexodus  [inchid.  Joel]  (Yitcmb.  1605,  4to); 
Krackewitz,  Commentarius  (Hamb.  1610,  Giessen,  1611, 
*vo) ; Miley,  Erkldruny  (Heidelb.  1614, 4to) ; Tarnovius, 
Commentarius  (Rost.  1616,  1626,  4to);  Schnepf,  Com- 
mentarius (Rost.  1619, 4to) ; Quarles,  Poem  (Lond.  1620, 
4to) ; Treminius,  Commentcirii  (Oriola,  1 623, 4to) ; Mvlins, 
Commentarius  (Franeof.  1624,  Regiom.  1640, 4to;  also  in 
his  Sylloye,  Amst,  1701,  fol.,  p.  976  sq.) ; Urven,  Commen- 
tarius (Antw.  1640,  fob);  Acosta,  Commentarius  (Lugd. 
1641,  fol.) ; Ursinns,  Commentarius  (Franeof.  1642,  8vo) ; 

, Paeiuchelli,  Lezzioni  (Yen.  1650, 1660,  1664,  1701,  folio; 


JONAH  B. -ABRAHAM 


993 


JONAS 


also  in  Latin,  Monacli.  1672,  fol. ; Antw.  1681-3,  3 vols. 
fol.);  l)e  Salinas,  Comment urii  (Lugd.  1652  sq.,  3 vols. 
fol.;;  Croeius,  Commentarius  (Cassel.  1656,  8vo) ; Leus- 
den,  Paraphrasis  [Rabbinical]  (Tr.  ad  Eh.  1656,  8vo) ; 
Petrseus,  Notes  [to  a traiisl.  from  the  /Etli.]  (L.  II.  1660, 
4to);  *Scheid,  Commentarius  (Argent.  1650, 1665,  4to); 
Gerhard,  Annotationes  [includ.  Amos]  (.Jen.  1663, 1670, 
4to)  ; Tfeiffer,  Preelections  (Vitemb.  1671,  1706,  Lipsia?, 
1686,  4to;  also  in  Opp.  i,  1131  sq.),  Moebius,  Jonas  typi- 
cus  (Lips.  1678, 4to);  Cliristianus,  Illustratio  (Lips.  1683, 
8vo) ; Birchcrod,  Exposiiio  (Hafn.  1686,  4to) ; Yon  der 
Ilardt,  xEnigmata,  etc.  (Helnistadt,  in  separate  treatises, 
1719;  together,  1723,  fol.);  Outhof,  Verkletaring  (Amst. 
1723,  4to);  Stenersloot,  Ontleeding  (Leyden,  1730,  4to); 
Van  dcr  Meer,  Verklaariny  (Gor.  1742,  4to);  lieiehen- 
bach.  De  Rabbinzs  errantibus , etc.  (Alt.  1 76 1 , 4to) ; Lessing, 
Obsercationes  (Chemnitz,  1780,  8vo) ; Lava  ter,  Prediyten 
(Wintenth.  1782, 2 vols.  8vo)  ■,  Adam,  Sendungsgeschichte , 
etc.  (Bonn,  1786,  4to) ; Piper,  Vindicatio  (Gryph.  1786, 
4to) ; Luderwald,  A lleyorie,  etc.  (Helmstadt,  1787, 8vo) ; 
Ildpfner,  Curie  in  Sept.,  etc.  (Lips.  1787-8,  3 parts  4to); 
Kordcs,t)foc?Toi'7or2es*rt/S,fyjt.,  etc. (Jena,  1788, 4to) ; Lowe, 
*‘S2  (Berl.  1788, 8vo;  also  in  his  general  commentary, 
Dessau,  1805)  ; Grimm,  Erklarung  (Diisseld.  1789, 8vo)  ; 
Fabrieius,  Commentarius , ete.  [from  Jewish  sources] 
(Gbtt.  1792, 8 vo) ; Grangaard,  Uebersetzung  (Lpzg.  1792, 
8vo) ; Paulus,  Zireck,  etc.  (in  his  Memorabilien , Leipzig, 
1794,  vi,  32  sq.);  Griesdorf,  Inferpretandi  ratio , etc.  (Yi- 
temb.  1794,  2 dissert.  4to)  ? Benjoin,  Notes  (C'ambr.  1796, 
4to) ; Xaclitigall,  A vfschrifi,  etc.  (in  Eichliorn’s  L'iblio- 
tliek,  Lips.  1799,  ix,  221  sq.) ; Elias  of  Wilna,  (Wil- 
na, 1800, 4to);  Goldhorn,  Excurse  (Lpz.  1803, 8 vo) ; Jones, 
Portrait , etc.  (London,  1810,  and  often  since,  12mo); 
*F riedriehsen,  Ueberblick,  etc.  (Alt.  1817,  Lpz.  1841, 8vo) ; 
Young,  Lectures  (London,  1819,  8vo)  ; Reindel,  Yersuch, 
etc.  (Bamberg,  1826,  8vo) ; *Eosenm  filler,  Scholia  (part 
vii,  vol.  ii;  Lpzg.  1827,  8vo);  Ilitzig,  Orakel  iib.Moub 
(Ileidelb.  1831 , 4to) ; Cunningham,  Lectures  (Loud.  1833, 
12mo);  Sibthorp,  Lectures  (Loud.  1834, 8vo);  Ivrahmer, 
Untersuchu ng  (Kassel.  1839,  8vo)  ; Preston,  Lectures 
(London,  1810,  8vo);  Jiiger,  Endzireck , etc.  (Tiib.  1840, 
8vo) ; Peddie,  Lectures  (Edinb.  1862, 12mo);  Fairbairn, 
Jonah's  Life,  etc.  (Edinburgh,  1849, 12mo) ; Maepherson, 
Lectures  (Edinb.  1849, 12mo);  Tweedie,  Lessons  (Edinb. 
1850,  12mo);  Drake,  Notes  [including  Ilosea]  (Cambr. 
1853, 8vo) ; Harding,  Lectures  (Lond.  1856, 12mo) ; Muir, 
Lessotis  (Edinb.  1854,  1857,  8vo);  Wright,  Glossaries, 
etc.  (Lond.  1857,  8vo) ; Desprez,  Illustrations  (London, 
1857, 12mo);  Broad,  Lectwes  (Lond.  1860,  8vo);  *Kau- 
len,  Expositio  (Mognnt.  1862,  8vo) ; *Martin,  Jonah's 
Mission  (Lond.  1866,  8vo).  See  Prophets,  Minor. 

Jonah  ben -Abraham  Gerundi,  a Jewish  sa- 
vant, and  one  of  the  principal  leaders  of  the  opposition 
to  the  school  of  Maimonides,  was  born  about  1195.  A 
disciple  of  the  celebrated  Salomo  of  Montpensier,  he  had 
espoused  the  cause  of  the  latter.  He  was  one  of  the 
parties  that  pronounced  the  ban  against  all  who  should 
dare  to  read  the  writings  of  the  celebrated  Jewish  phi- 
losopher, and  his  opposition  had  in  every  way  been  so 
bitter  against  the  Maimonidists  that  it  caused  no  little 
surprise  in  the  Jewish  camp  when  he,  upon  the  attempt 
of  the  inquisitors  to  destroy  all  eopies  of  the  Rabbinical 
writings,  openly  declared  his  former  course  a mistake, 
and  pronounced  the  second  Moses  a great  and  good  man. 
He  even  entered  upon  a pilgrimage  to  the  grave  of  the 
man  whose  writings  and  disciples  he  had  formerly  op- 
posed; and  when,  at  the  solicitation  of  a Jewish  con- 
gregation which  demanded  his  services,  he  halted  on 
the  journey,  and  there  died  (about  1270),  his  death  was 
attributed  by  some  of  his  superstitious  brethren  as  a 
punishment  of  heaven  for  the  non-fulfilment  of  his  duty 
to  visit  the  grave  of  Maimonides,  and  there  declare  the 
folly  of  his  former  course.  Jonah  was  a man  of  splendid 
parts,  and  did  much  to  allay  strife  among  his  people.— 
Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  vii,  46, 117  sq.  See  Salomo  of 
Montpensjer.  (J.  H.  W.) 

IV.— R r r 


Jo'nan  fhovav,  perh.  contr.  for  Jonathan  or  Jo- 
li  an  an,  or  i.  q.  Jonas),  the  son  of  Eliakim  and  lather 
of  Joseph  among  the  maternal  ancestors  of  Christ  (Luke 
iii,  30).  He  is  not  mentioned  in  the  Old  Test.  B.C, 
considerably  ante  876.  Sec  Genealogy  of  Christ. 

JoTias  (Toivde,  for  the  Ileb.  Jonah),  the  Grsecized 
form  of  the  name  of  three  men  in  the  Apocrypha  and 
New  Testament. 

1.  The  prophet  Jonah  (2  Esdr.  i,  39;  Tobit  xiv,  4, 
8;  Matt,  xii,  39,  40,  41 ; xvi,  4 ; Luke  xi,  29,  30,  32). 

2.  A person  occupying  the  same  position  in  1 Esdr. 
ix,  23  as  Eliezer  in  the  corresponding  list  in  Ezra  x,  23. 
Perhaps  the  corruption  originated  in  reading 

for  as  appears  to  have  been  the  case  in  1 Esdr. 

ix,  32  (compare  Ezra  x,  31).  The  former  would  have 
caught  the  compiler’s  eye  from  Ezra  x,  22,  and  the 
original  form  Elionas,  as  it  appears  in  the  Vulg.,  could 
easily  have  become  Jonas. — Smith. 

3.  The  father  of  the  apostle  Peter  (John  xxi,  15,  16, 
17).  In  John  i,  42  the  name  is  less  correctly  Anglicized 
“Jona”  (some  MSS.  have  ’I loavvgc).  A.D.  ante  25. 
See  also  Bar-jona.  Instead  of  ’I euva  (genitive)  in  all 
the  above  passages,  good  codices  have  Iw«i  fop  or  'l  o- 
avov,  which  latter  Lachmann  has  introduced  into  the 
text.  Perhaps  Jonas  is  but  a contraction  for  Joannas 
(Luke  iii,  27),  which  is  the  same  as  John. 

Jonas,  bishop  of  Orleans,  an  eminent  prelate  in  the 
Latin  Church,  nourished  in  the  first  half  of  the  9th  cen- 
tury. He  died  in  842.  Jonas  took  an  active  part  in  the 
ecclesiastical  affairs  of  his  time,  and  played  no  unim- 
portant part  in  the  Iconoclastic  controversy,  in  which  lie 
assumed  a mediate  course.  In  his  I)e  cidiu  Imaginum 
(1645,  16mo)  he  wrote  both  against  Claudius,  bishop  of 
Turin,  and  the  Iconoclasts.  The  work  was  dedicateel 
to  king  Charles  the  Bald,  with  whom  he  was  in  great 
favor.  Although  condemning  the  destroyers  of  images, 
he  did  not  approve  the  worship  of  them,  and  the  most 
eminent  Catholic  writers,  such  as  Bcllarmine,  therefore 
disapprove  of  his  work.  His  other  principal  works 
arc,  Libri  tres  de  institutione  laicali  (transl.  into  French 
by  De  Mege,  1662. 12mo): — De  institutione  regia  (transl. 
into  French  by  Desmarets,  1661 , 8vo).  These  two  works 
are  to  be  found  in  Latin  in  D’Achcry’s  Spidleg.  He  is 
also  the  author  of  a treatise  on  Miracles  (in  Eibl.  Patri.). 
.See  Milman,  Latin  Christ,  iv,  421 ; Schreickh,  Kirchenge- 
sclnchte,  xxiii,  294  sq.,  416  sq. ; Aschbacli,  Kirchen-Lex. 
iii,  573. 

Jonas,  Justus,  one  of  the  most  eminent  reformers 
in  Germany,  a contemporary  and  associate  of  Luther, 
was  born  at  Nordliausen,  June  5, 1493.  He  studied  law 
at  the  University  of  Erfurt.  In  1519,  however,  encour- 
aged by  the  advice  of  both  Hess  and  Erasmus,  he  de- 
cided to  study  theology,  and,  inclining  to  the  cause  of 
the  Reformers,  he  allied  himself  to  Luther  in  1521,  and 
thereafter  became  closely  connected  with  the  great  re- 
former. lie  went  to  Worms  with  him,  and  was  soon 
after  appointed  provost  of  the  church  at  Wittenberg. 
Here  he  was  made  D.D.  by  the  university,  in  which  he 
became  a professor,  and  ever  after  worked  zealously  for 
the  propagation  of  the  principles  of  the  Reformation. 
His  legal  knowledge  was  of  especial  service  to  the  Re- 
formers. In  1529  he  accompanied  Luther  to  Marburg, 
and  his  letters  on  this  occasion  are  a valuable  historical 
contribution.  In  1530  wc  find  him  assisting  Melanc- 
thon  in  the  completion  of  his  Augustana.  In  1541  he 
removed  to  Halle  to  assume  pastoral  duties  at  St.Marv’s 
Church  in  that  city,  but  in  1546  duke  Maurice  ordered 
him  to  quit  the  place,  and  he  returned  only  after  the 
elector  John  Frederick  had  taken  possession  of  the  city 
in  1547.  The  battle  of  Mfihlberg,  which  falls  in  this 
year,  again  turned  the  fate  of  the  Protestants,  and  he 
once  more  quitted  Halle.  In  1 551  he  was  appointed  court 
preacher  at  Coburg,  and  in  1553  superintendent  of  Eis- 
feld,  where  he  died  Oct.  9.  1555.  Jonas  was  particular- 
ly distinguished  as  a ready  speaker  and  as  a writer. 
He  took  part  in  the  translation  of  the  Bible  by  Luther, 


994 


JONATHAN 


JONAS 

and  wrote  Preefatio  in  Epistolas  diri  Pauli  Apostoli , tid 
Corinth  ios,  etc.  (Erfurt,  1520,  4to) Epitome  Judicii  J. 
Jorue,  prupos.  1 1 'ittemb.,  de  corriyendis  cterimoniis  (1523): 
— .1  nnotutiones  J.Jonee  in  Ada  Apostolorum  (Wittemb. 
1524,  Basle,  1525)  : — Yom  alien  v.  neuen  Gott,  Glauben  u. 
J j lire  (Wittenb.  1520):— Welch  die  rechte  Kirehe , uml 
dayerjen  welch  d.  Jalsche  Kirehe  ist  (YY  ittenb.  1534, 4to) : 

0 ratio  Justi  Jonce,  dod.  theol. , de  Stud i is  Theoloyicis 

(Wittemb.  1539 ; Melancthon.  Select.  Declamat.  i,  23) 
Des  xx  Psalms  Ausleyuny  (Wittemberg,  1540): — Kurze 
I I ist  or  ia  v.  Luthers  biblischen  u.  yeistlichen  An/echtunyen 
(in  Luther's  Works)  ; etc.  He  also  published  a number 
of  translations  into  German,  especially  of  works  of  Lu- 
ther and  Melancthon;  also  translations  from  German 
into  Latin.  See  Eeinhard,  Commentatio  hist,  theoloy.  de 
Vita  et  Obitu  Just i J once,  etc.  (Weimar,  1731);  Knapp, 
Xarratio  de  Jnsto  Jona,  etc.  (Halle,  1817,  4to):  Ersch 
u.  Gruber,  A llyemeine  Encyklop. ; Herzog,  Pea l- Encyklop. 
vii,  1 sq.;  l’ressel,  Leben  u.  ausyew.  Schriften  d.  Vaters 
u.  Beyriinders.  d.  luther.  Kirehe  (1862),  voL  viii. 

Jonas,  Ludwig,  one  of  the  ablest  German  theo- 
logians of  our  day,  was  born  at  Nenstadt  a.  O.  February 
11,  1797.  During  the  Franco-Prussian  war  of  1812- 
1815  he  fought  against  the  foreign  invader,  but  as  soon 
as  peace  dawned  on  his  native  land  he  resumed  his  the- 
ological studies  under  the  celebrated  Selileiermaeher,  of 
whom  he  was  one  of  the  most  prominent  and  faithful 
followers.  After  preaching  at  different  places,  he  re- 
moved to  Berlin  in  1834,  and  soon  secured  a place  in 
the  foreground  among  Berlin’s  large  array  of  theological 
writers.  lie  published  Schleiermacher’s  MSS. : bis  phil- 
osophical Essays  and  Dissertations  in  1835,  the  Dialec- 
tic in  1839,  Morals  in  1843,  Letters  in  1858.  He  died 
Sept.  19,  1859.  Jonas  was  one  of  the  founders  of  the 
Monatsschrift  of  the  United  Church  of  Prussia  (com- 
prising the  Deformed  and  Lutheran  churches  at  that 
time.  See  art.  Prussia). 

Jon'athan  (Ileb.  Yonathan / ■jpai*’,  1 Sam.  xiii,  2, 
3. 1(1,  22;  xiv,  1, 3,  4, 12,  13,  14, 17,  ll,  27,  29,  39, 40,  41, 
42,43,44,  45,49;  xix,  1;  1 Kings  i,  42, 43 ; 1 Chron.  ii, 
32,33;  x,  2;  xi,  34;  Ezra  viii,  6;  x,  15;  Neh.  xii,  11, 
14,35;  Jer.  xl,  8;  Sept.  ’lojiaiSav),  a contracted  form 
of  J eiio  x ati  l ax  (*,rr>r, q.d.  Theodore,  1 Chron.  xxvii, 
25;  2 Chron.  xvii,  8;  Neh.  xii,  18;  Anglicized  “Jona- 
than” elsewhere,  Judg.  xviii,30.  1 Sam.  xiv,  G,  8;  xviii, 
1,3,4;  xix,  1,2, 4, 6, 7;  xx,  1.3,4,  5, 9,  10, 11, 12,13  1G 
17, 18, 25,  27, 28, 80, 32, 33, 34,35, 37, 38, 39, 40,  42 ; xxiii’ 
1G,  18;  xxxi,  2;  2 Sam.  i,  4,  5,  12, 17,  22,  23,  25,  20;  iv’ 
4 ; ix,  1,  3,  G,  7 ; xv,  27,  3G;  xvii,  17  20;  xxi.  7,  12,  is| 
14,21;  xxiii, 32;  1 Chron. viii, 33, 34;  ix, 39,40;  xx,7; 
xxvii,  32;  Jer.  xxxyii,  15,  20 ; xxxviii.26;  Sept,  ’hola- 
3ov),  the  name  of  fifteen  or  more  men  in  the  canonical 
Scriptures,  besides  several  in  the  Apocrvpha  and  Jose- 
phus. 

1.  A Levite  descended  from  Gersliom,  the  son  of  Mo- 
sos  (Judg.  xviii,  30).  It  is  indeed  said,  in  our  Maso- 
rctie  copies,  that  the  Gershom  from  whom  this  Jona- 
than sprang  was  “the  son  of  Manasseh;”  but  it.  is  on 
very  good  grounds  supposed  that  in  the  name  Moses 
(nr -),thc  single  letter  n (J)  has  been  interpolated  (and 
it  is  usually  written  suspended,  Bnxtorf,  Tiber,  p.  14) 
changing  it  into  Manasseh  (n‘r:r),in  order  to  save  the 
character  oi  the  great  lawgiver  from  the  stain  of  having 
an  idolater  among  his  immediate  descendants  (Baba 
. '!  hra'  10  ’’  h)'  T1,.e  sinS»lar  name  Gershom,  and  the 

! f<:  ol.  tho  transaction,  go  far  to  establish  this  view. 
Accordingly  the  Vulgate,  and  some  copies  of  the  Ken- 
iiagmt,  actually  exhibit  the  name  of  Moses  instead  of 
Manasseh.  (.See  Clarke’s  Comment,  ad  loo.)  The  his- 

1 IT'  'S  invoh’e(1  in  tiK‘  narrative  which 

cc  ijnes  Judges  xvii,  xviii,  and  is  one  of  the  two  ac- 

Tl  e even  tsM  “ ***  of  aWe,jdix  to  that  book, 

tc  u ' cT1,'  ^ a,’1>ear  to  have  "cenrred  soon  al- 

r the  death, 0|  Joshua,  and  of  the  elders  who  outlived 
bin.,  when  the  government  was  in  u most  unsettled 


state.  Its  proper  place  in  the  chronological  order  would 
have  been  between  the  second  and  third  chapters  of  the 
book.  B.C.  cir.  1590. 

Jonathan,  who  was  resident  at  Bethlehem,  lived  at  a 
time  when  the  dues  of  the  sanctuary  did  not  afford  a 
livelihood  to  the  numerous  Levites  who  had  a claim 
upon  them,  and  belonged  to  a tribe  destitute  of  the 
landed  possessions  which  gave  to  all  others  a sufficient 
maintenance.  He  therefore  went  forth  to  seek  his  for- 
tune. In  Mount  Ephraim  he  came  to  “ a house  of  gods,” 
which  had  been  established  by  one  Micah,  who  wanted 
nothing  but  a priest  to  make  his  establishment  com- 
plete. See  Micah.  This  person  made  Jonathan  what 
was  manifestly  considered  the  handsome  offer  of  en- 
gaging him  as  his  priest  for  Iris  victuals,  a yearly  suit 
of  clothes,  and  ten  shekels  (about  six  dollars)  a year  in 
money.  Here  he  lived  for  some  time,  till  the  Danite 
spies,  who  were  sent  by  their  tribe  to  explore  the  north, 
passed  this  way  and  formed  his  acquaintance.  When, 
not  long  after,  the  body  of  armed  Danites  passed  the 
same  way  in  going  to  settle  near  the  sources  of  the 
Jordan,  the  spies  mentioned  Alicah’s  establishment  to 
them,  on  which  they  went  and  took  away  not  only 
“ the  ephod,  the  teraphim,  and  the  graven  image,”  hut 
the  priest  also,  that  they  might  set  up  the  same  worship 
in  the  place  of  which  they  wrere  going  to  take  posses- 
sion. Micah  vainly  protested  against  this  robbery ; but 
Jonathan  himself  was  glad  at  the  improvement  in  his 
prospects,  and  from  that  time,  even  down  to  the  cap- 
tivity, he  and  his  descendants  continued  to  he  priests  of 
the  Danites  in  the  town  of  Laish,  the  name  of  which 
was  changed  to  Dan. 

There  is  not  any  reason  to  suppose  that  this  estab- 
I lishment,  whether  in  the  hands  of  Micah  or  of  the  Dan- 
I ites,  involved  an  apostasy  from  Jehovah.  It  appears 
rather  to  have  been  an  attempt  to  localize  or  domesti- 
cate his  presence,  under  those  symbols  and  forms  of 
service  which  were  common  among  the  neighboring  na- 
tions, but  were  forbidden  to  the  Hebrews.  The  offence 
here  was  twofold— the  establishment  of  a sacred  ritual 
different  from  the  only  one  which  the  law  recognised, 
and  the  worship  by  symbols,  naturally  leading  to  idola- 
try, with  the  ministration  of  one  who  could  not  legally 
be  a priest,  but  only  a Levite,  and  under  circumstances 
in  which  no  Aaronic  priest  could  legally  “have  officiated. 
It  is  more  than  likely  that  this  establishment  was  event- 
ually merged  in  that  of  the  golden  calf,  which  Jeroboam 
set  up  in  this  place,  his  choice  of  which  may  very  pos- 
sibly have  been  determined  by  its  being  already  in  pos- 
session of  “ a house  of  gods.” — Kitto. 

The  Targnm  of  R.  Joseph,  on  1 Chron.  xxiii,  16,  iden- 
tifies this  Jonathan  with  Shebtiel,  the  son  of  Gershom, 
who  is  there  said  to  have  repented  (XS-rrt  ‘IS")  in 
his  old  age,  and  to  have  been  appointed  hv  David  as 
chief  over  his  treasures.  All  this  arises  from  a play 
upon  the  name  Shebuel,  from  which  this  meaning  is  ex- 
tracted in  accordance  with  a favorite  practice  of  the 
Targnmist. — Smith. 

2.  Second  of  the  two  sons  of  Jada,  and  grandson  of 
Jerahmeel,  of  the  family  of  Judah ; as  his  brother  Jetlier 
died  without  issue,  this  branch  of  the  line  was  continued 
through  the  two  sons  of  Jonathan  (1  Cliron.  ii,  32,  33). 
B.C.  considerably  post  1612. 

3.  The  eldest  son  of  king  Saul  and  the  bosom  friend 
of  David  (Josephus  'ImvciSaj,  Ant.  vi,  6, 1).  lie  first  ap- 
pears some  time  after  his  father’s  accession  (1  Sam.  xiii, 
2).  If  his  younger  brother  Ishbosheth  was  forty  at  the 
time  of  Saul’s  death  (2  Sam.  ii,8),  Jonathan  must  have 
been  at  least  thirty  when  he  is  first  mentioned.  Of  his 
own  family  we  know  nothing  except  the  birth  of  one 
son,  five  years  before  his  death  (2  Sam.  iv,  4).  He  was 
regarded  in  his  father’s  lifetime  as  heir  to  the  throne. 
Like  Saul,  he  was  a man  of  great  strength  and  activity 
(2  Sain,  i,  23),  of  which  the  exploit  at  Michmash  was  a 
proof.  He  was  also  famous  for  the  peculiar  martial  ex- 
ercises in  which  his  tribe  excelled — archery  and  sling- 
iug  (1  Cliron.  xii,  2).  His  how  was  to  him  what  the 


JONATHAN 


995 


JONATHAN 


spear  was  to  his  father:  “the  low  of  Jonathan  turned 
not  back”  (2  Sam.  i,  22).  It  was  always  about  him  (1 
Sam.  xviii,  4 ; xx,  35).  It  is  through  his  relation  with 
David  that  he  is  chiefly  known  to  us,  probably  as  re- 
lated by  his  descendants  at  David’s  court.  But  there  is 
a baekgromid,  not  so  clearly  given,  of  his  relation  with 
his  father.  From  the  time  that  he  first  appears  lie  is 
Sanl’s  constant  companion.  He  was  always  present  at 
his  father’s  meals.  As  Abner  and  David  seem  to  have 
occupied  the  places  afterwards  called  the  captaincies  of 
“the  host”  and  “ of  the  guard,”  so  he  seems  to  have  been 
(as  Hushai  afterwards)  “the  friend”  (comp.  1 Sam.  xx, 
25;  2 Sam.  xv,  37).  The  whole  story  implies,  without 
expressing,  the  deep  attachment,  of  the  father  and  son. 
Jonathan  can  only  go  on  his  dangerous  expedition  (1 
Sam.  xiv,  1)  by  concealing  it  from  Saul.  Saul’s  vow  is 
confirmed,  and  its  tragic  effect  deepened,  by  his  feeling 
for  his  son,  “ though  it  be  Jonathan  my  son”  (ibid,  xiv, 
39).  “ Tell  me  what  thou  hast  done”  (ibid,  xiv,  43). 

Jonathan  cannot  bear  to  believe  his  father’s  enmity  to 
David : “ My  father  will  do  nothing,  great  or  small,  but 
that  he  will  show  it  to  me : and  why  should  my  father 
hide  this  thing  from  me?  it  is  not  so”  (1  Sam.  xx,  2). 
To  him,  if  to  any  one,  the  wild  frenzy  of  the  king  was 
amenable  — “Saul  hearkened  unto  the  voice  of  Jona- 
than” (1  Sam.  xix,  6).  Their  mutual  affection  was  in- 
deed interrupted  by  the  growth  of  Saul’s  insanity.  Twice 
the  father  would  have  sacrificed  the  son:  once  in  con- 
sequence of  his  vow  (1  Sam.  xiv) ; the  second  time,  more 
deliberately,  on  the  discovery  of  David’s  flight ; and  on 
this  last  occasion,  a momentary  glimpse  is  given  of  some 
darker  history.  Were  the  phrases  “ son  of  a perverse  re- 
bellious woman” — “shame  on  thy  mother’s  nakedness” 
(1  Sam. xx, 30, 31),  mere  frantic  invectives?  or  was  there 
something  in  the  story  of  Ahinoam  or  Rizpah  which  we 
do  not  know  ? “ In  fierce  anger”  Jonathan  left  the  roy- 

al presence  (ib.  34).  But  he  cast  his  lot  with  his  father’s 
decline,  not  with  his  friend’s  rise,  and  “in  death  they 
were  not  divided”  (2  Sam.  i,  23 ; 1 Sam.  xxiii,  1G). 

1.  The  first  main  part  of  his  career  is  connected  with 
the  war  with  the  Philistines,  commonly  called,  from  its 
locality,  “ the  war  of  Michmash”  (1  Sam.  xiii,  21,  Sept.), 
as  the  last  years  of  the  Peloponnesian  War  were  called, 
for  a similar  reason,  “ the  war  of  Decelea.”  In  the  pre- 
vious war  with  the  Ammonites  (1  Sam.xi,  4-15)  there  is 
no  mention  of  him;  and  his  abrupt  appearance,  without 
explanation,  in  xiii,  2,  may  seem  to  imply  that  some  part 
of  the  narrative  has  been  lost.  B.C.  1 073.  He  is  already 
of  great  importance  in  the  state.  Of  the  3000  men  of 
whom  Saul’s  standing  army  was  formed  (xiii,  2;  xxiv, 
2;  xxvi,  1.  2),  1000  were  under  the  command  of  Jona- 
than at  Gibeah.  The  Philistines  were  still  in  the  gen- 
eral command  of  the  country;  an  officer. was  stationed 
at  Geba,  either  the  same  as  Jonathan’s  position  or  close 
to  it.  In  a sudden  act  of  youthful  daring,  as  when  Tell 
rose  against  Gessler,  or  as  in  sacred  history  Moses  rose 
against  the  Egyptian,  Jonathan  slew  this  officer  (Anth. 
Vers.  “ garrison,”  Sept,  tov  N aatfi,  1 Sam.  xiii,  3, 4.  See 
Ewald,  ii,  47G),  and  thus  gave  the  signal  for  a general 
revolt.  Saul  took  advantage  of  it,  and  the  whole  pop- 
ulation rose.  But  it  was  a premature  attempt.  The 
Philistines  poured  in  from  the  plain,  and  the  tyranny  be- 
came more  deeply  rooted  than  ever.  See  Sacl.  Saul 
and  Jonathan  (with  their  immediate  attendants)  alone 
had  arms,  amidst  the  general  weakness  and  disarming 
of  the  people  (1  Sam.  xiii,  22).  They  were  encamped 
at  Gibeah,  with  a small  body  of  GOO  men,  and  as  they 
looked  down  from  that  height  on  the  misfortunes  of 
their  country,  and  of  their  native  tribe  especially,  they 
wept  aloud  (Sept.  tic\awv,  1 Sam.  xiii,  1G). 

From  this  oppression,  as  Jonathan  by  his  former  act 
had  been  the  first  to  provoke  it,  so  now  he  was  the  first 
to  deliver  his  people.  On  the  former  occasion  Saul  had 
been  equally  with  himself  involved  in  the  responsibility 
of  the  deed.  Saul  “ blew  the  trumpet Saul  had  “ smit- 
ten the  officer  of  the  Philistines"  (xiii,  3, 4).  But  now 
it  would  seem  that  Jonathan  was  resolved  to  undertake 


the  whole  risk  himself.  “The  day,”  the  day  fixed  by 
him  (Sept,  ylvtrai  ?/  i)i.upa,  1 Sam. xiv,  1), approached; 
and  without  communicating  his  project  to  any  one,  ex- 
cept the  young  man,  whom,  like  all  the  chiefs  of  that 
age,  he  retained  as  his  armor-bearer,  he  sallied  forth  from 
Gibeah  to  attack  the  garrison  of  the  Philistines  station- 
ed on  the  other  side  of  the  steep  defile  of  Michmash 
(xiv,  1).  His  words  are  short, but  they  breathe  exact- 
ly the  ancient  and  peculiar  spirit  of  the  Israelitish  war- 
rior: “Come,  and  let  us  go  over  unto  the  garrison  of 
these  uncircumcised ; it  may  be  .that  Jehovah  will  work 
for  ns;  for  there  is  no  restraint  to  Jehovah  to  save  by 
many  or  by  few."  The  answer  is  no  less  characteristic 
of  the  close  friendship  of  the  two  young  men,  already 
like  that  which  afterwards  sprang  up  between  Jona- 
than and  David.  “ Do  all  that  is  in  thine  heart ; . . . . 
behold,  I am  with  thee ; as  thy  heart  is  my  heart  (Sept., 
1 Sam.  xiv,  7).”  After  the  manner  of  the  time  (and 
the  more,  probably,  from  having  taken  no  counsel  of  the 
high-priest  or  any  prophet  before  his  departure),  Jona- 
than proposed  to  draw  an  omen  for  their  course  from 
the  conduct  of  the  enemy.  If  the  garrison,  on  seeing 
them,  gave  intimations  of  descending  upon  them,  they 
would  remain  in  the  valley;  if,  on  the  other  hand, they 
raised  a challenge  to  advance,  they  were  to  accept  it. 
The  latter  turned  out  to  be  the  case.  The  first  appear- 
ance of  the  two  warriors  from  behind  the  rocks  was 
taken  by  the  Philistines  as  a furtive  apparition  of  “ the 
Hebrews  coming  forth  out  of  the  holes  where  they  had 
hid  themselves;”  and  they  were  welcomed  with  a scof- 
fing invitation  (such  as  the  Jebnsites  afterwards  offered 
to  David),  “ Come  up,  and  we  will  show  you  a thing” 
(xiv,  4-12).  Jonathan  immediately  took  them  at  their 
word.  Strong  and  active  as  he  was,  “strong  as  a lion, 
and  swift  as  an  eagle”  (2  Sam.  i,  23),  he  was  fully  equal 
to  the  adventure  of  climbing  on  his  hands  and  feet  up 
the  face  of  the  cliff.  When  he  came  directly  in  view 
of  them,  with  his  armor-bearer  behind  him,  they  both, 
after  the  manner  of  their  tribe  (1  Chron.  xii,  2),  dis- 
charged a flight  of  arrows,  stones,  and  pebbles  from  their 
bows,  cross-bows,  and  slings,  with  such  effect  that  twen- 
ty men  fell  at  the  first  onset.  A panic  seized  the  garri- 
son, thence  spread  to  the  camp,  and  thence  to  the  sur- 
rounding hordes  of  marauders;  an  earthquake  combined 
with  the  terror  of  the  moment;  the  confusion  increased; 
the  Israelites  who  had  been  taken  slaves  bj”  the  Philis- 
tines during  the  last  three  days  (Sept.)  rose  in  mutiny; 
the  Israelites  who  lay  hid  in  the  numerous  caverns  and 
deep  holes  in  which  the  rocks  of  the  neighborhood 
abound,  sprang  out  of  their  subterranean  dwellings. 
Saul  and  his  iittle  band  had  watched  in  astonishment 
the  wild  retreat  from  the  heights  of  Gibeah ; he  now 
joined  in  the  pursuit,  which  led  him  headlong  after  the 
fugitives,  over  the  rugged  plateau  of  Bethel,  and  down 
the  pass  of  Beth-horon  to  Ajalon  (xiv,  15-31).  See 
Gibeah.  The  father  and  son  had  not  met  on  that  day : 
Saul  only  conjectured  his  son’s  absence  from  not  finding 
him  when  he  numbered  the  people.  Jonathan  had  not 
heard  of  the  rash  curse  (xiv,  24)  which  Saul  invoked  on 
any  one  who  ate  before  the  evening.  In  the  dizziness 
and  darkness  (Hebrew,  1 Sam.  xiv,  27)  that  came  on 
after  his  desperate  exertions,  he  put  forth  the  staff  which 
apparently  had  (with  his  sling  and  bow)  been  his  chief 
weapon,  and  tasted  the  honey  which  lay  on  the  ground 
as  they  passed  through  the  forest.  The  pursuers  in 
general  were  restrained  even  from  this  slight  indul- 
gence by  fear  of  the  royal  curse;  but  the  moment  that 
the  day,  with  its  enforced  fast,  was  over,  they  flew,  like 
Muslims  at  sunset  during  the  fast  of  Ramadan,  on  the 
captured  cattle,  and  devoured  them,  even  to  the  brutal 
neglect  of  the  law  which  forbade  the  dismemberment  of 
the  fresh  carcasses  with  the  blood.  This  violation  of 
the  law  Saul  endeavored  to  prevent  and  to  expiate  by 
erecting  a large  stone,  which  served  both  as  a rude  ta- 
ble and  as  an  altar ; the  first  altar  that  was  raised  under 
the  monarchy.  It  was  in  the  dead  of  night,  after  this 
wild  revel  was  over,  that  he  proposed  that  the  pursuit 


996 


JONATHAN 


JONATHAN 

should  be  continued  till  dawn ; and  then,  when  the  si- 
lence of  the  oracle  of  the  high-priest  indicated  that 
something  had  occurred  to  intercept  the  divine  favor, 
the  lot  was  tried,  and  Jonathan  appeared  as  the  culprit. 
Jeplithah's  dreadful  sacrifice  would  have  been  repeated ; 
but  the  people  interposed  in  behalf  of  the  hero  of  that 
great  day,  and  Jonathan  was  saved  (xiv,  2-4-46). 

2.  Ilut  the  chief  interest  of  Jonathan’s  career  is  de- 
rived from  the  friendship  with  David,  which  began  on 
the  day  of  David’s  return  from  the  victory  over  the 
champion  of  Gath,  and  continued  till  his  death.  It  is 
the  lirst  Biblical  instance  of  a romantic  friendship,  such 
as  was  common  afterwards  in  Greece,  and  has  been  since 
in  Christendom ; and  is  remarkable  both  as  giving  its 
sanction  to  these,  and  as  filled  with  a pathos  of  its  own, 
which  has  been  imitated,  but  never  surpassed,  in  modern 
works  of  fiction.  “ The  soul  of  Jonathan  was  knit  with 
the  soul  of  David,  and  Jonathan  loved  him  as  his  own 
soul" — ‘‘Thy  love  to  me  was  wonderful,  passing  the 
love  of  women”  (I  Sam.  xviii,  1 ; 2 Sam.  i,  26).  Each 
found  in  each  the  affection  that  he  found  not  in  his  own 
family ; no  jealousy  of  rivalry  between  the  two,  as 
claimants  for  the  same  throne,  ever  interposed:  “Thou 
slialt  be  king  in  Israel,  and  I shall  be  next  unto  thee” 
(1  Sam.  xxiii,  17).  The  friendship  w as  confirmed,  after 
the  manner  of  the  time,  by  a solemn  compact  often  re- 
peated. The  first  was  immediately  on  their  first  ac- 
quaintance. Jonathan  gave  David  as  a pledge  his  royal 
mantle,  his  sword,  his  girdle,  and  his  famous  bow  (xviii, 
41.  llis  fidelity  was  soon  called  into  action  by  the  in- 
sane rage  of  his  father  against  David.  He  interceded 
for  his  life,  at  first  with  success  (1  Sam.  xix,  1-7).  Then 
the  madness  returned,  and  David  fled.  It  was  in  a se- 
cret interview  during  this  flight,  by  the  stone  of  Ezel, 
that  the  second  covenant  was  made  between  the  two 
friends,  of  a still  more  binding  kind,  extending  to  their 
mutual  posterity- — Jonathan  laying  such  emphasis  on 
this  portion  of  the  compact  as  almost  to  suggest  the  be- 
lief of  a slight  misgiving  on  his  part  of  David’s  future 
conduct  in  this  respect.  It  is  this  interview  which 
brings  out  the  character  of  Jonathan  in  the  liveliest  col- 
ors— liis  little  artifices — his  love  for  both  his  father  and 
his  friend— his  bitter  disappointment  at  his  father’s  un- 
manageable furj' — his  familiar  sport  of  archery.  With 
passionate  embraces  and  tears  the  two  friends  parted, 
B.C.  cir.  1062,  to  meet  only  once  more  (1  Sam.  xx). 
That  one  more  meeting  was  far  away  in  the  forest  of 
Ziph,  during  Saul’s  pursuit  of  David.  Jonathan’s  alarm 
lor  bis  friend’s  life  is  now  changed  into  a confidence  that 
he  will  escape:  “He  strengthened  his  hand  in  God.” 
Finally,  and  for  the  third  time,  they  renewed  the  cove- 
nant, and  then  parted  forever  (1  Sam.  xxiii,  1G-1JS).  B. 
<J.  cir.  1061. 

From  this  time  forth  we  hear  no  more  till  the  battle 
of  Gilboa.  In  that  battle  lie  fell,  with  his  two  brothers 
and  bis  father,  and  bis  corpse  shared  their  fate  (1  Sam. 
xxxi,  2,  X).  B.C.  1053.  llis  remains  were  buried  first 
at  Jabesli-Gilcad  (ib.  13),  but  afterwards  removed  with 
those  of  his  father  to  Zelah  in  Benjamin  (2  Sam.  xxi, 
12).  I he  news  ol  his  death  occasioned  the  celebrated 
elegy  of  David,  in  which,  as  the  friend,  he  naturally  oc- 
cupies the  chief  place  (2  Sam.  i,  22, 23, 25,  26),  and  which 
seems  to  have  been  sung  in  the  education  of  the  archers 
ol  Judah,  in  commemoration  of  the  one  great  archer, 
Jonathan : “ lie  hade  them  teach  the  children  of  Judah 
the  use  of  the  how”  (2  Sam.  i,  17,  18). 

Jonathan  left  one  son,  aged  live  years  old  at  the  time 
of  his  death  (2  Sam.  iv,  4).  to  whom  he  had  probably 
given  his  original  name  of  Mcrib-baal,  afterwards 
changed  for  Mephibosheth  (comp.  1 Chron.  viii,  34;  ix, 
J").  See  MtciMituosiiKTii.  Through  him  the  line  of 
descendants  was  continued  down  to  the  time  of  Ezra  (1 
Gbrou.  ix,  10),  ami  even  then  their  great  ancestor’s 
archery  was  practiced  among  them. — Smith.  See  D t- 

VII). 

See  Niemeyer,  ('hur  aider.  iv,  413;  Herder,  Grift,  tier 
Utbr.  J’oesie,  ii,  287 ; Rosier,  in  the  Stud.  u.  Krit . 1832, 


ii,  366;  Ewald,  Isr.  Gesch.  ii,  530;  Pareau,  Elegia  Da- 
vidis,  etc.  (Groning.  1829);  Simon,  De  amicitia  Davidis 
et  Jon.  (Hildburgh.  1739). 

4.  Son  of  Shage,  a relative  of  Ahiam,  both  among 
David’s  famous  warriors  and  descendants  of  Jashen  of 
the  mountains  of  Judah  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  32;  1 Chron.  xi, 

34) .  B.C.  1046.  See  Hararite. 

5.  Son  of  the  higli-priest  Abiathar,  and  one  of  the 
adherents  to  David’s  cause  during  the  rebellion  of  Ab- 
salom (2  Sara,  xv,  27,  36).  He  remained  at  En-rogel 
under  pretence  of  procuring  water,  and  reported  to  his 
master  the  proceedings  in  the  camp  of  the  insurgents  (2 
Sam.  xvii,  20;  Josephus  'IwwtJi/r,  Ant.  vii,  9,  2).  B.C. 
cir.  1023.  At  a later  date  his  constancy  was  manifested 
on  a similar  occasion  by  announcing  to  the  ambitious 
Adonijah  the  forestalment  of  bis  measures  by  the  suc- 
cession of  Solomon  (1  Kings  i,  42,  43).  B.C.  cir.  1015. 
“ On  both  occasions  it  may  be  remarked  that  he  appears 
as  the  swift  and  trusty  messenger.  He  is  the  last  de- 
scendant of  Eli  of  whom  we  hear  anything”  (Smith). 
See  David. 

6.  Son  of  Shammah  (Sliimeah  or  Shimea),  and  Da- 
vid’s nephew,  as  well  as  one  of  his  chief  warriors,  a po- 
sition which  he  earned  by  slaying  a gigantic  relative 
of  Goliath  (2  Sam.  xxi,  21 ; 1 Chron.  xx,  7 ; Josephus 
’IwvaBgg,  Ant.  vii,  12, 2).  B.C.  1018.  He  was  also  made 
secretary  of  the  royal  cabinet  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  32,  where 
Til  is  mistaken  in  the  Auth.  Vers,  for  the  usual  sense 
of  “uncle”).  B.C.  1014.  “Jerome  (Quicst.  Ifebr.  on  1 
Sam.  xvii,  12)  conjectures  that  this  was  Na’than  the 
prophet,  thus  making  up  the  eighth  son,  not  named  in 
1 Chron.  ii,  13-15.  But  this  is  not  probable”  (Smith). 

7.  Son  of  Uzziah,  and  steward  of  the  agricultural 
revenue  of  David  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  25;  Heb.  and  A.V. 
“ Jehonatiian”). 

8.  One  of  the  Levites  sent  by  Jehoshaphat  to  aid  in 
teaching  the  Law  to  the  people  (1  Chron.  xvii,  8 ; Heb. 
and  A. V.  “Jeiionatiian”). 

9.  A scribe  whose  house  was  converted  into  a prison 
in  which  Jeremiah  was  closely  confined  (Jer.  xxvii,  15, 
20  ; xxxviii,  26).  B.C.  589. 

10.  Brother  of  Johanan,  the  son  of  Kareah,  and  as- 
sociated with  him  in  his  intercourse  with  Gedaliah,  the 
Babylonian  governor  of  Jerusalem  (Jer.  xl,  8).  B.C.  587. 

11.  Son  of  Shemaiah  and  priest  contemporary  with 
Joiakim  (Neh.  xii,  18:  Heb.  and  A.V.  “Jehonatiian”). 

12.  Soil  of  Melicu  and  priest  contemporary  witli  Joi- 
akim (Neh.  xii,  14).  B.C.  between  536  and  459. 

13.  Father  of  Ebed,  which  latter  was  an  Israelite  of 
the  “sons”  of  Adin  that  returned  from  Babylon  with 
Ezra  (Ezra  viii,  6)  at  the  bead  of  fifty  males,  a number 
which  is  increased  to  250  in  1 Esdr.  viii,  32,  where  Jon- 
athan is  written  Twi'djng.  B.C.  ante  459. 

14.  Son  of  Asahel,  a chief  Israelite  associated  with 
Jahaziah  in  separating  the  returned  exiles  from  their 
Gentile  wives  (Ezra  viii,  15).  B.C.  459. 

15.  Son  of  Joiada  and  father  of  Jaddua,  Jewish  high- 
priests  (Neh.  xii,  11) ; elsewhere  called  Johanan  (Xeh. 
xii,  22),  and  apparently  John  by  Josephus,  who  relates 
his  assassination  of  his  own  brother  Jesus  in  the  Tem- 
ple (Ant.  xi,  7, 1 and  2).  Jonathan,  or  John,  was  high- 
priest  for  thirty-two  years,  according  to  Eusebius  and 
the  Alcxandr.  Chron.  (Selden,  De  Success,  in  Poatif.  cap. 
vi,  vii).  Sec  High-priest. 

16.  Son  of  Shemaiah,  of  the  family  of  Asaph,  and 
father  of  Zeehariah,  which  last  was  one  of  the  priests 
appointed  to  flourish  the  trumpets  as  the  procession 
moved  around  the  rebuilt  walls  of  Jerusalem  (Neh.  xii, 

35) .  B.C.  ante  446. 

17.  A son  of  Mattathias,  and  leader  of  the  Jews  in 
their  war  of  independence  after  the  death  of  his  brother 
Judas  Maccabieus,  B.C.  161  (1  3Iacc.ix,  19  sq.), — Smith. 
See  Maccabees, 

18.  A son  of  Absalom  (1  Macc.  xiii,  11),  sent  by  Si- 
mon with  a force  to  occupy  Joppa,  which  was  already 
in  the  hands  of  the  Jews  (1  Macc.  xii,  33),  though  prob- 


997  JONATHAN  BEN-UZZIEL 


JONATHAN  BEN-ANAN 

ably  held  only  by  a weak  garrison.  Jonathan  expelled  I 
the  inhabitants  {rovg  ovtccq  iv  aurt) ; comp.  Josephus, 
A nt.  xiii,  6, 3)  and  secured  the  city.  Jonathan  was  prob- 
ably a brother  of  Mattathias  (2)  (1  Mace,  xi,  70). — 
Smith. 

19.  A priest  who  is  said  to  have  offered  up  a solemn 
prayer  on  the  occasion  of  the  sacrifice  made  by  Nelic- 
miah  after  the  recovery  of  the  sacred  fire  (2  Mace.'  i,  23 
sq.;  compare  Ewald,  Gescli.  d.  V.  1st',  iv,  184  sq.).  The 
narrative  is  interesting,  as  it  presents  a singular  exam- 
ple of  the  combination  of  public  prayer  with  sacrifice 
(Grimm,  ad  2 Mace.  1.  c.). — Smith. 

20.  A Sadducee  at  whose  instigation  Hvrcanus  (q. 
v.)  abandoned  the  Pharisees  for  their  mild  sentence 
against  his  maligner  Eleazar  (Josephus,  Ant.  xiii,  10,6). 

21.  Son  of  Ananus,  appointed  Jewish  high-priest,  A. 
D.  36,  by  Yitellius  in  place  of  Joseph  Caiaphas  (.1  nt.  xviii, 
4,  2),  and  deposed  after  two  years,  when  his  brother  Tlie- 
ophilus  succeeded  him  (ib.  5, 2).  He  was  reappointed  by 
Agrippa  A.D.  43,  but  this  time  he  declined  that  honor 
in  favor  of  his  brother  Matthias  (Josephus,  Ant.  xix,  6, 
4);  he  was  sent  by  Cumanus  to  Claudius  in  a quarrel 
with  the  Samaritans,  but  appears  to  have  been  released 
by  the  emperor  (I Par,  ii,  12,  6 and  7);  lie  was  at  last 
murdered  by  the  Sicarii  {War,  ii,  13, 3).  He  was  per- 
haps the  high-priest  whom  Felix  caused  to  be  assassi- 
nated for  his  reproofs  of  his  bad  government  (Josephus, 
Ant.  xx,  8,  5).  (See  Frankel,  Monatsschrift,  i,  589; 
Griitz,  Gesck.  der  Juden , iii,  263,  287,  357.)  See  Higii- 

PR1EST. 

22.  A common  weaver,  leader  of  the  Sicarii  in  Cy- 
rene,  captured  and  put  to  death  by  the  Romans  after 
various  adventures  (Josephus,  War,  vii,  11, 12). 

23.  A Jew  who  challenged  the  Romans  to  single 
combat  during  the  last  siege,  and,  after  slaying  one 
combatant,  Pudens,  was  at  length  killed  by  Priscus  (Jo- 
sephus, War,  vi,  2, 10). 

Jonathan  ben-Anan.  See  Jonathan,  21. 

Jonathan  ben-Uzziel,  the  celebrated  translator 
of  the  Hebrew  prophetical  writings  into  Chaldee,  a disci- 
ple of  Hillel  I,  one  of  the  first  of  those  thirty  disciples  of 
Hillcl  who,  in  the  language  of  the  Talmud,  “were  worthy 
to  possess  the  power  of  stopping  the  sun  like  Joshua,” 
flourished  about  B.C.  30.  His  expositions  were  especially 
on  Haggai,  Zechariah,  and  Malaehi,  a fanciful  reason  for 
which  is  given  in  the  Talmud  : “When  the  illuminating 
sun  arose  upon  the  dark  passages  of  the  prophets,  through 
this  translation,  the  length  and  breadth  of  Palestine 
were  agitated,  and  everywhere  the  voice  of  God  (r2 
b“ip)  or  the  voice  of  the  people  (vox  populi  vox  dei) 
was  heard  asking,  ‘Who  has  disclosed  these  mysteries 
to  the  sons  of  men?’  With  great  humility  and  becom- 
ing modesty  Jonathan  b.-Uzziel  answered, ‘I  have  dis- 
closed the  mysteries;  but  thou,  O Lord,  knowest  that  1 
have  not  done  it  to  get  glory  for  myself,  or  for  the  house 
of  my  father,  but  for  thy  glory’s  sake,  that  discussion 
might  not  increase  in  Israel’”  ( Megilla , 3,  a).  From 
these  notices  in  the  Talmud,  it  is  manifest  that  Jona- 
than was  only  the  Chaldee  translator  of  the  prophets ; 
for  it  is  distinctly  declared  in  the  last  quoted  passage 
that  when  Jonathan  wished  also  to  translate  the  Ha- 
giographa  (C^ITS),  the  same  voice  from  heaven 
(bip  P3)  emphatically  forbade  it  ("p“H),  because  of 
the  great  Messianic  mysteries  contained  therein  (P“,S<bl 
PP'w’S  *pp  PP3),  especially  in  the  book  of  Daniel 
(comp.  Kashi  in  loco).  But  tradition  has  also  ascribed 
to  him  the  paraphrase  of  the  Pentateuch  known  under 
the  name  of  Pseudo-Jonathan  and  the  Targum  of  the 
five  Megilloth. 

The  question  of  the  authorship  of  the  paraphrases 
will  be  treated  in  full  in  the  article  Targum  (q.  v.). 
We  have  room  here  only  for  a few  points  in  the  discus- 
sion, and  will  mainly  speak  of  the  work  which  is  gen- 
erally fastened  upon  him.  Firstly,  then,  as  to  this  Par- 


aphrase on  the  Prophets  fi'ijin 

Cijnnxi),  which  embraces  Joshua,  Judges,  Samuel, 
Kings,  Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  Ezekiel,  and  the  twelve  minor 
prophets,  its  importance  is  not  only  great  because  it  con- 
tains expositions  of  Haggai,  Zechariah,  and  Malaclii, 
but  mainly  so  because,  dating,  as  it  does,  from  a period 
when  the  Hebrew  language  gave  place  to  the  Aramaic 
dialect,  and  when  ancient  Jewish  traditions  and  scrip- 
tural expositions  were  introduced  in  the  paraphrases 
read  during  the  divine  services  of  the  Jewish  people,  it 
contains  very  many  ancient  readings,  which  go  far  to 
explain  many  an  obscure  passage  in  the  prophetical 
writings,  and  thus  prevent  false  criticism  and  loose 
conjecture.  A list  of  these  various  readings  has  been 
collected  in  the  Hebrew  annual  entitled  j’l^nn  (Lem- 
burg,  1852),  i,  109  sq.  The  paraphrase  was  first  pub- 
lished in  1494,  and  afterwards  with  that  of  Onkelos  on 
the  Pentateuch  (Venice).  It  is  found  in  all  the  Rab- 
binic Bibles ; also  in  Walton’s  Biblia  Polygl.  (ii,  iii,  and 
iv),  and  in  Buxtorf’s  Biblia  Ilebrcea  (Basle,  1720,  ii— iv), 
etc.,  with  a Latin  translation. 

As  to  the  other  reputed  writings  of  Jonathan,  we  have 
(«)  the  Paraphrase  on  the  Pentateuch  CjroV1 
n-nrn  ^“);  it  is  nothing  more  or  less  than  a com- 
pleted version  of  what  is  called  the  Jerusalem  or  Pales- 
tine Targum  (‘’fib'iJY'Y’  Dl5“ir),  which  of  itself  is  in 
reality  only  desultory  glosses  on  Onkelos’s  paraphrase. 
This  completed  version  was  at  first  called  Targum  Jeru- 
salem, after  the  fragment  on  which  it  was  based,  but  af- 
terwards it  obtained  the  name  of  Targum  Jonathan,  by 
erroneously  resolving  the  abbreviation  “'Hz: 
“iTsilL'Y'P  into  -,rr.rr  D’W'P.  The  additions  to  the 
work  were  probably  not  made  prior  to  the  seventh  cen- 
tury. The  work  was  first  published  in  Venice  1590-91, 
with  the  Hebrew  text  of  the  Pentateuch,  the  paraphrase 
of  Onkelos,  the  fragments  of  the  Jerusalem  glosses,  the 
commentaries  of  Kashi  and  Jacob  ben-Asher,  then  in 
Basle  (1607),  Hanau  (1614),  Amsterdam  (1640),  Prague 
(1646),  etc.,  and  has  lately  been  printed,  with  a com- 
mentary, in  the  beautiful  edition  of  the  Pentateuch  with 
the  Rabbinic  commentaries  (Vienna,  1859).  Explana- 
tions of  it  were  also  written  by  David  b.-Jacob  (Prague, 
1609),  Feiwel  b.-David  Secharja  (Hanau,  1614),  Morde- 
cai  Kremsier  (Amsterdam,  1671);  and  it  was  translated 
into  Latin  by  Chevallier,  in  Walton’s  Polyglot.  An 
English  translation  was  published  by  the  late  learned 
Wesleyan  preacher,  J.  W.  Etheridge  (Lond.  1862, 2 vols. 
8vo) ; but  the  masterly  treatises  on  this  Fseudo-Jona- 
than  are  by  Seligsolin  and  Traub,  and  by  Frankel,  Zeit- 
schr.  f d.  relig.  ltd.  d.  Judentli.  (1846),  p.  100  sq.  (comp. 
Seligsohn  and  Traub,  in  Frankcl’s  Monatsschrift,  Lpz. 
1856,  vi,  96-114,  138-149  ; Etheridge,  Introd.  to  Jewish 
Lit.  p.  195;  Wiener,  Be  Jonatlianis  in  Pent,  paraph rasi 
Chaldaica  ; Petcrmann,  De  dnabus  Pent,  paraph rasibus 
Chaldaicis ): — (b)  the  Paraphrase  on  the  Five  Megilloth. 
Some  early  critics  have  attributed  this  work  to  Alar  Jo- 
sef, of  Sora  (died  332),  but  of  late  it  is  assigned  to  a 
later  period  even  than  the  paraphrase  of  the  Penta- 
teuch, and  is  considered  simply  a compilation  from  an- 
cient materials  made  by  several  individuals.  This  ver- 
sion is  generally  published,  together  with  the  Hebrew 
text,  in  the  Jewish’ editions  of  the  Pentateuch,  and  is 
contained  in  all  the  Rabbinic  Bibles.  A rhymed  ver- 
I sion  of  the  whole  of  this  paraphrase  was  published  by 
Jacob  ben-Samuel,  also  called  Koppelmann  ben-Bonem 
(about  1584).  A Latin  version  of  it  is  given  in  Wal- 
ton’s Polyglot.  Gill  has  given  an  English  translation 
of  the  entire  paraphrase  on  the  Song  of  Songs  {Com- 
ment. on  the  Song,  1728) ; and  Dr.  Ginsburg  has  lately 
translated  the  first  chapter  of  the  paraphrase  of  the  Song 
{Comment,  on  the  Song,  p.  29  sq.),  and  the  whole  of  Ec- 
clesiastes ( Comment . on  Eccles.  p.  503  sq.).  Hebrew  com- 
mentaries on  this  paraphrase  have  been  written  by  Mor- 
decai  Lorca  (Cracow,  1580)  and  Chajim  Feiwel  (Berlin, 
1705).  See  also  Bartolocci,  Biblioth.  Magna  Bubbinica, 


998 


JONES 


JON  ATI  IAS 


iii,  788  sq.;  Wolf,  Biblioth.  Ilebrna,  ii,  1159  sq.;  Zunz, 
I)ie  Gottesdientl.  Vortrdge  d.  Juden,  p.  62  sq. ; Geiger, 
Vnchrift  u.Uebersetzungen  d.Bibel;  Jost ,Geschichte  d. 
Juden,  i,  269  ; Fl'irst,  Bibliotheca  Juduica , ii,  105,  107 ; 
Kitto’,  Cyclop.  Biblical  Lit.  ii,  s.  v.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Jon'athas  (TiovdSav  v.  r.  'lazdv,  Vnlg.Jonathus 
v.  r.  Nathan),  the  Latin  form  of  the  common  name  Jon- 
athan, which  is  preserved  in  the  A.  V.  at  Tob.  v,  13. 

Jo,uath-e'Iem-recho,kim(C*’pn“i  nbx  rr,", 
yonath'  e'lem  rechokim',  dove  o/the  dumbness  of  the  dis- 
tances. i.  e.  the  silent  dove  in  distant  places,  or  among 
strangers;  Scptuag.  vi rip  rob  Xaov  tov  enrb  tuiv  uyitov 
inuaKpVfififvov,  Vulg.  pro  populo  qui  a Sanctis  longe 
factus  cst),  an  enigmatical  title  of  Psa.  lvi,  variously  in- 
terpreted. but  probably  descriptive  of  David’s  solitary 
feelings  while  absent  from  the  worship  of  the  Temple 
among  the  Philistines;  comp.  l*sa.  xxxviii,  13;  Ixv,  5; 
lxxiv,  19.  (See  Alexander,  Comment,  ad  loc.)  The  ex- 
pression “upon”  (b?),  preceding  this  phrase,  would  seem 
to  indicate  that  it  was  the  name  or  opening  clause  of 
some  well-known  air  to  which  the  ode  was  set,  a sup- 
position not  inconsistent  with  the  above  appropriation. 
Its  original  application  would  in  that  case  be  unknown, 
like  that  of  similar  superscriptions  of  other  Psalms. 
“Raslii  considers  that  David  employed  the  phrase  to 
describe  his  own  unhappy  condition  when,  exiled  from 
the  land  of  Israel,  he  was  living  with  Achish,  and  was 
an  object  of  suspicion  and  hatred  to  the  countrymen  of 
Goliath : thus  was  he  amongst  the  Philistines  as  a mute 
(r^bx)  dove.  Kimchi  supplies  the  following  com- 
mentary: ‘The  Philistines  sought  to  seize  and  slay  Da- 
vid (1  Sam.  xxix,  4-11),  and  he,  in  his  terror,  and  pre- 
tending to  have  lost  his  reason,  called  himself  Jonath, 
even  as  a dove  driven  from  her  cote.’  Knapp’s  explana- 
tion ‘on  the  oppression  of  foreign  rulers’— assigning  to 
Klein  the  same  meaning  which  it  has  in  Exod.  xv,  15 — 
is  in  harmony  with  the  contents  of  the  psalm,  and  is 
worthy  of  consideration.  De  Wette  translates  ‘ dove  of 
the  distant  terebinths,’  or  ‘of  the  dove  of  dumbness 
(Stummheit)  among  the  strangers’  or  ‘ in  distant  places.’ 
According  to  the  Septuagiut,  the  phrase  means  ‘on  the 
people  far  removed  from  the  holy  places’  (probably 
E5X  - -3“X,  the  Temple-hall;  see  Orient.  Liter atur- 
blntt.  p.  579,  year  1811),  a rendering  which  very  nearly 
accords  with  the  Chaldee  paraphrase : ‘ On  the  congre- 
gation of  Israel,  compared  with  a mute  dove  while  ex- 
iled from  their  cities,  hut  who  come  hack  again  and  of- 
fer praise  to  the  Lord  of  the  Universe.’  Aben-Ezra 
regards  Jonath-elem-rechokini  as  merely  indicating  the 
modulation  or  the  rhythm  of  the  psalm.  In  the  notes 
to  Mendelssohn’s  version  of  the  Psalms,  Jonath-elem- 
rechokim  is  mentioned  as  a musical  instrument  which 
produced  dull,  mournful  sounds.  ‘.Some  take  it  for  a 
pipe  called  in  Greek  iXvpoc,  PIT', from  6' reel-,  which 

would  make  the  inscription  read  “ the  long  Grecian 
pipe,”  but  this  does  not  appear  to  us  admissible’  {Pref- 
ace, p.  26)”  (Smith).  See  Psalms. 

Joncourt,  Petkk  di:,  a French  Protestant  theolo- 
gian, was  born  at  Clermont  towards  the  middle  of  the 
1 ( tli  century.  A few  years  before  the  revocation  of  the 
Edict  ot  Nantes  he  removed  to  Holland,  and  became 
pastor  of  Middelburg  in  1678,  and  of  La  Have  in  1699. 
lie  died  in  the  latter  city  in  1725.  lie  was* considered 
one  of  the  best  preachers  of  his  day.  He  wrote  Fntre- 
tiens  snr  les  dijerentes  J lethodes  d'erpliqner  V Kcriture  et 
deprecherde  ceuxqn'on  appelle  Caere iens  et  Yoeliens,  etc. 
(Amst.  1707,  12mo): — Nonreaux  ent  retie  ns,  etc.  (Amst. 
1708, 1 2mo) ; quite  a controversy  resulted  from  this  work, 
but  Joncourt  was  ordered  by  the  synod  of  Nimeguen  to 
desist  from  Ids  attacks,  and  to  retract,  which  he  did  in 
the  Lett  re  aux  eglises  Wullonnes  des  Pags-Bas  ( La  Have, 
1708.  12mo) : — Pensees  utiles  aux  Chretiens  de  tons  'les 
etats,  etc.  (La  llaye,  1710, 8 vo) Let  Ires  sur  les  Jens  de 
J/asunl  et  sur  l' usage  de  sc  faire  celer  pour  biter  tine 
visite  incommode  (La  Have,  1713, 12mo),  mostly  against 


La  Plaeette’s  Divers  Traites  sur  des  matieres  de  conscience 
(Amst.  1708, 12mo),  and  a work  which  gave  rise  to  sev- 
eral pamphlets  on  this  question : — Lettres  critiques  sur 
divers  sujets  importants  de  FEcriture  Sainte  (Amst.  1715, 
12mo): — Entretiens  sur  Vet  at present  de  la  Religion  en 
France  (La  Have,  1725, 12mo).  He  also  published  a re- 
vised edition  of  Clement  Marot  and  Th.  de  Beza’s  trans- 
lation of  the  Psalms  (Amsterd.  1716, 12ino).  See  J.  G. 
Walch,  Biblioth.  Theologica  selecta,  vol.  ii ; Journal  des 
Savants,  June,  1714,  p.  579 ; January,  171 5, p.  85;  Febru- 
ary, p.  123;  Querard,  La  France  Litteraire  ; Haag,  La 
France  Protestante ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvi, 
901.  (J.N.P.) 

Jones,  Benjamin  (1),  an  early  Methodist  Episco- 
pal minister,  was  born  in  South  Carolina  about  1774; 
entered  the  itinerancy  in  1801;  was  stationed  at  Charles- 
ton in  1802;  and  died  suddenly  on  Bladen  Circuit  in 
1804.  He  was  a man  of  much  seriousness  and  Chris- 
tian gentleness,  and  a very  useful  preacher. — Conf.  Min- 
utes, i,  125.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Jones,  Benjamin  (2),  a Methodist  Episcopal  min- 
ister, was  born  at  Sandwich,  Mass.,  July  28, 1786 ; united 
with  the  Church  in  1805;  entered  the  New  York  Con- 
ference in  1809;  was  made  presiding  elder  in  1820;  was 
delegate  to  the  General  Conference  in  1832  and  in  1840 ; 
was  by  poor  health  superannuated  in  1846;  and  died  at 
Lincolnville,  Me.,  July  18,  1850,  aged  64.  Mr.  Jones 
was  a man  of  more  than  ordinary  ability  and  influence. 
His  preaching  was  bold,  sustained,  and  independent; 
dealing  in  truthful  logic  and  the  word  of  God  rather 
than  fancy,  and  very  strong  in  argument.  His  efforts 
were  often  eloquent  in  the  highest  degree. — Conf.  Min. 
iv,  606 ; Stevens,  Memorials  of  Methodism,  chap.  xlii. 
(G.L.T.) 

Jones,  Charles  Colcock,  D.D.,  a Presbyterian 
divine,  was  born  at  Liberty  Hall,  Ga.,  Dec.  20,  1804. 
While  yet  a youth  he  entered  a large  counting-house 
in  Savannah,  Ga.,  but  when  converted,  in  his  18th  year, 
he  decided  to  quit  mercantile  life  and  enter  the  minis- 
try. He  prepared  for  college  at  Phillips  Academy,  then 
entered  Andover  Seminary,  and  later  the  theologica] 
seminary  at  Princeton.  He  was  licensed  in  1830  by  the 
New  Brunswick  Presbytery  at  Allentown,  New  Jersey, 
and  returned  to  Georgia  in  the  autumn,  and  shortly  af- 
terwards became,  missionary  to  the  negroes  of  Liberty 
County,  Ga.  He  soon  became  interested  in  the  colored 
race,  and  during  the  remainder  of  his  life  sought  by 
extensive  correspondence,  by  his  annual  reports  as  a 
missionary,  and  by  all  other  means  in  his  power,  to  en- 
gage the  attention  of  the  Christian  public  to  the  moral 
condition  of  this  class  of  our  population.  In  1835  he 
was  elected  professor  of  Church  history  and  polity  in 
the  seminary  at  Columbia,  and  after  having  been  earn- 
estly urged  to  accept  the  chair,  on  the  plea  that  he 
might  even  there  continue  to  work  for  the  colored  peo- 
ple, by  inciting  the  students  to  engage  with  him  in  the 
work,  he  accepted  the  position  in  1836.  But  he  felt 
restless  in  his  new  place,  and  in  1838  returned  again  to 
his  former  work.  In  1847  he  was  re-elected  to  the  pro- 
fessorship, and  again  prevailed  upon  to  accept  the  prof- 
fered honor ; he  now  continued  in  the  seminary  until 
its  close  in  1850.  At  the  same  time  he  filled  the  posi- 
tion of  secretary  to  the  Board  of  Missions  for  the  South 
and  South-west.  In  1850  he  removed  to  Philadelphia, 
to  assume  the  duties  of  secretary  of  the  Assembly’s 
Board  of  Domestic  Missions,  and  this  position  he  tilled 
until  Oct.  1853,  when  failing  health  necessitated  his  re- 
turn to  Georgia.  During  the  Rebellion  he  attached 
himself  to  the  Southern  cause.  But  his  health  was  too 
feeble  to  permit  much  exertion,  for  he  suffered  from  con- 
sumption. He  died  March  16, 1863.  “Dr.  Jones  filled 
a large  place  in  the  esteem  and  affections  of  the  Church 
of  God.  As  a man  there  was  decision  and  energy  of 
character,  united  with  great  friendliness  of  heart,  cheer- 
fulness of  disposition,  activity  of  mind,  and  ease  and  pol- 
i ish  of  manners.  Few  equalled  him  in  all  that  makes 


JONES 


999 


JONES 


up  the  ease  and  polish  of  the  Christian  gentleman.  As 
a preacher  there  was  much  that  was  attractive  in  his 
appearance  and  manner.  A delightful  simplicity,  ease, 
and  unction  pervaded  his  happiest  efforts.”  I)r.  Jones 
published  a Catechism  of  Scripture  Doctr.tvml  Practice: 

' — Catechism  on  the  Creed: — Hist.  Catechism  of  the  0.  and 
JY.  T.;  besides  several  pamphlets  on  the  Religious  Instr. 
of  the  Negro.  Ilis  Catechism  of  Script.  Doctrine  and 
Practice  was  extensively  used,  and  was  found  so  ser- 
viceable to  missionaries  generally  that  it  was  translated  1 
into  several  languages,  and  was  made  a manual  for  the 
instruction  of  the  heathen.  He  also  began  a History  of 
the  Chui'ch  of  God,  which  he  did  not  live  to  complete  (it 
was  published  by  Scribner).  See  Wilson,  Presb.  Hist. 
Almanac,  1867,  p.  438.  (J.  II. W.) 

Jones,  Cornelius,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minis- 
ter, was  born  at  Hinsdale, ‘Mass.,  May  20, 1800 ; was  con- 
verted in  Geauga  Co.,  Ohio,  Feb.  1821 ; entered  the  Pitts- 
burg Conference  in  1827 ; and  died  at  Alleghany  town, 
Aug.  27, 1835.  He  was  a diligent  student,  an  able  min- 
ister, and  a successful  evangelist. — Conference  Minutes, 

11,  483. 

Jones,  David  (1),  a Baptist  minister,  was  born  in 
White  Clay  Creek  Hundred,  Newcastle  Co,,  Del.,  May 

12,  1736.  In  1758  he  was  converted,  and  soon  after 
determined  to  improve  his  education,  which  had  been 
somewhat  neglected.  He  entered  Hopewell  School,  and 
remained  there  three  years,  eagerly  pursuing  the  study 
of  the  classic  languages.  In  1761  he  became  a licen- 
tiate, and  was  regularly  ordained  pastor  in  1767  to  the 
church  at  Freehold,  Monmouth  Co.,  New  Jersey.  In 
1772  he  removed  to  enter  upon  the  missionary  work 
among  the  Indians  in  Ohio.  But  he  failed  so  utterly 
in  these  efforts  that  after  the  lapse  of  two  years  he  re- 
turned again  to  his  former  charge.  In  the  Revolution- 
ary War  he  served  as  chaplain,  and  only  resumed  the 
regular  work  of  the  ministry  at  the  close  of  the  war. 
In  1786  he  became  pastor  at  Southampton,  Fa.  In  1794 
he  again  entered  the  army,  this  time  at  the  special  re- 
quest of  general  Wayne.  He  also  served  as  chaplain 
during  the  War  of  1812.  He  died  in  Chester  Co.,  Fa., 
Feb.  5,  1820.  See  Sprague,  Annals  A m.  Pulpit,  vi,  85  sq. 

Jones,  David  (2),  another  Baptist  minister,  was 
born  in  the  north  of  Wales  in  April,  1785.  He  united 
with  the  Independent  Church  when  about  fifteen  years 
old.  Shortly  after  he  emigrated  to  this  country,  and 
lived  in  Ohio.  After  a stay  of  two  years  among  the 
Baptists,  who  were  thickly  settled  in  that  immediate 
vicinity,  he  joined  tlieir  Church,  and  was  licensed  to 
preach.  He  accepted  a call  to  the  Beaver  Creek  Bap- 
tist Church,  teaching  at  the  same  time.  From  1810  to 
1813  he  had  no  settled  charge,  and  he  travelled  through 
several  of  the  middle  and  border  states,  preaching  from 
place  to  place.  In  1813  he  went  to  Newark,  New  Jer- 
sey, as  pastor,  from  which,  in  1821,  lie  was  called  to 
assume  the  pastorate  of  the  Baptist  Church  at  “ Low- 
er Dublin,”  near  Philadelphia,  where  he  had  preached 
occasionally  before  his  departure  for  Newark.  With 
this  people  he  spent  the  remainder  of  his  life.  He  died 
April  9,  1833.  He  was  (in  part)  the  author  of  a tract 
on  Baptism,  entitled  Letters  of  David  and  John,  and 
wrote  also  the  tract  Salvation  by  Grace,  published  by 
the.  Baptist  General  Tract  Society.  See  Sprague,  An- 
nais  Am.  Pulpit,  vi,  518  sq. 

Jones,  Greenbury  R.,  a Methodist  Episcopal 
minister,  was  born  at  Brownsville,  Fa.,  April  7,  1784 ; 
was  converted  in  August,  1803 ; entered  the  itinerancy 
at  Steubenville,  Ohio,  in  1818;  was  presiding  elder  on 
Scioto  District  in  1821 ; Miami  District  in  1827 ; Port- 
land District  in  1832;  but  superannuated  in  that  year, 
and  so  remained  until  1839;  and  died  at  Marietta  Con- 
ference Sept.  20,  1844.  Mr.  Jones  was  a zealous  and 
capable  minister,  of  fine  tact  and  sound  judgment.  He 
was  several  times  secretary  of  the  Ohio  Conference,  nine 
years  presiding  elder,  and  twice  delegate  to  the  General 
Conference.  He  was  faithful  in  all  things,  and  much 


beloved. — Minutes  of  Conferences,  iii,  651 ; Spragpe,  An- 
nals A m.  Pulpit,  vii,  587.  (G.  L.  T.) 

J ones,  Griffith,  a Welsh  divine,  generally  known 
as  the  Welsh  Apostle,  was  born  at  Kilreddis,  Caermar- 
tlienshire,  in  1684.  Ilis  parents,  who  were  eminently 
pious,  took  great  pains  to  imbue  the  mind  of  their  son 
from  his  earliest  years  with  impressions  of  religion. 
The  serious  turn  which  they  thus  gave  to  his  mind  in- 
clined him  towards  the  Christian  ministry.  At  the 
completion  of'his  theological  studies  he  was  ordained 
by  bishop  Bull,  Sept.  19, 1708,  and  shortly  after  appoint- 
ed to  the  rectory  of  Llanddowror  by  Sir  John  Philips, 
whose  own  religious  character  made  him  anxious  to  se- 
cure the  services  of  a man  of  piety  and  learning  like 
Jones.  “ In  this  situation,”  says  Middleton  ( Evangelical 
Biography,  s.  v.),  “ he  soon  developed  all  the  best  qual- 
ities of  a man  of  God,  and  a most  eloquent  and  evangel- 
ical preacher.  Christ  was  all  to  him ; and  it  was  his 
greatest  delight  to  publish  and  exalt  the  unsearchable 
riches  of  his  Redeemer’s  righteousness.  Nor  was  he  less 
blessed  in  his  private  plans  of  doing  good.  He  founded 
among  his  countrymen  free  schools,  and  by  this  means 
more  than  a hundred  and  fifty  thousand  poor  people 
were  taught  to  read.  lie  also  circulated  thirty  thou- 
sand copies  of  the  Welsh  Bible  among  them,  besides 
other  religious  and  useful  books.  His  humility  gave 
lustre  to  all  these  labors  of  love.  On  his  dying  bed  he 
said, ‘I  must  bear  witness  to  the  goodness  of  God  to 
me.  Blessed  be  God,  his  comforts  fill  my  soul.’  He 
died  in  April,  1761.  It  may  be  truly  said  of  Griffith 
Jones  that  few  lives  were  more  heavenly  and  useful, 
and  few  deaths  more  triumphant.”  Jones  also  wrote  and 
published  several  religious  treatises  in  Welsh  and  Eng- 
lish, of  which  many  thousands  were  distributed  as  had 
been  the  Bible.  See  Jamieson,  Cyclop.  Relig.  Biog.  p. 
289 ; Allibone,  Diet.  Engl,  and  Amer.  A uthors,  vol.  ii,  s.  v. 

Jones,  Horatio  Gates  (son  of  David  Jones,  1\ 
also  a Baptist  minister,  was  born  at  Easttown,  Ches- 
ter County,  Pa.,  Feb.  II,  1777.  His  early  education  was 
quite  thorough,  and  remarkably  so  for  a young  man 
destined  for  agricultural  life.  Gifted  with  great  fluen- 
cy of  speech,  young  Jones  became  “ the  politician”  of 
his  own  immediate  vicinity,  and  before  he  had  reached 
his  majority  enjoyed  the  prospect  of  preferment  in  po- 
litical life.  Just  about  this  time  he  became  conscious, 
however,  of  his  responsibility  to  his  Maker,  and,  believ- 
ing himself  to  have  been  the  subject  of  spiritual  reno- 
vation, he  made  public  declaration  of  his  belief,  June  24, 
1798,  and  determined  to  devote  his  life  to  the  Christian 
ministry.  He  was  licensed  Sept.  26,  1801,  and  called 
to  Salem,  New  Jersey,  Feb.  13, 1802.  In  1805  his  health 
became  enfeebled,  and  he  was  obliged  to  resign,  how- 
ever reluctantly,  the  charge.  Hereafter  he  devoted 
himself  to  farm  life  on  a place  which  he  bought  on  the 
banks  of  the  Schuylkill  River,  about  five  miles  above 
Philadelphia.  But  Jones  had  engaged  too  heartily  in 
the  cause  of  his  Master  not  to  be  tempted  to  re-en- 
ter the  work  of  the  Christian  ministry  whenever  his 
health  should  warrant  the  task.  At  first  lie  went  to 
different  places  from  time  to  time  and  preached;  finally 
he  made  “Thomson’s  Meeting-house”  at  Lower  Mori- 
on, Montgomery  County,  belonging  to  the  Presbyteri- 
ans, his  head-quarters,  and  he  succeeded,  after  several 
years  of  ardent  labor,  in  building  up  there  a Baptist 
Church,  which  he  served  until  the  end  of  his  earthly 
days,  Dec.  12,  1853.  Mr.  Jones  held  a prominent  po- 
sition in  the  board  of  trustees  of  the  University  of  Lew- 
isburg,  Pa.,  and  was  at  one  time  its  chancellor.  This 
high  school  conferred  on  him  the  degree  of  D.D.  The 
degree  of  M.A.  he  received  from  Brown  University  in 
1812.  He  was  also  a member  of  the  Baptist  Board  of 
Missions,  and  was  at  one  time  (1829)  president  of  the 
Philadelphia  Baptist  Association,  of  which  society  he 
published  a History  in  1823,  and  held  a co-editorship  of 
the  Latter-day  Luminary,  an  early  Baptist  missionary 
magazine.  Indeed,  we  are  told  that  “ few  men  of  his 


JONES  1000  JONES 


day  have  written  so  much  and  so  well,  and  published  so 
little.'*  See  Sprague,  Annals  .1  m.  Pulpit,  vi,  452  sq. 

Jones,  Jeremiah,  a learned  English  dissenting 
minister,  was  horn,  as  is  supposed,  of  parents  in  opulent 
circumstances,  in  the  north  of  England,  in  1093.  After 
linishing  his  education  under  the  Rev.  Samuel  Jones, 
of  Tewksbury,  who  was  also  the  tutor  of  Chandler,  But- 
ler, Seeker,  and  many  other  distinguished  divines,  lie 
became  minister  of  a congregation  at  Forest  Green,  in 
Gloucestershire,  where  he  also  kept  an  academy.  He 
died  in  1734.  His  works  are  as  follows:  A Vindica- 
tion of  the  former  Part  of  the  Gospel  by  Matthew  from 
Mr.  \V hist oits  Charge  of  Dislocation , etc.  (London,  1719, 
Nvo;  Salop,  1721,  8 vo,  Clarendon  Press,  Oxford,  1803) : 
— also,  .1  new  and  full  Method  of  settling  the  Canonical 
Authority  of  the  Xew  Testament  (London,  1726,  2 vols. 
8vo;  vol.  iii,  1727,  8vo;  Clarendon  Press,  Oxford,  1798, 
3 vols.  8yo,  and  since).  See  Chalmers,  Biog.  Diet.  (Lon- 
don) ; Gentlemans  Magazine , vol. xxiii ; Monthly  Maga- 
zine, April,  1803;  Alii  bone,  Diet,  of  English  anil  Ameri- 
can .4  uihors,  ii,  988. 

Jones,  Joel,  a celebrated  lay  writer  on  theological 
subjects,  and  jurist  by  profession,  was  born  of  Puritan 
ancestry  at  Coventry,  Conn.,  ( let.  20, 1795,  and  educated 
at  Yale  College,  where  he  graduated  in  1817.  He  was 
one  of  the  judges  of  the  Philadelphia  District  Court, 
and  later  mayor  of  Philadelphia.  In  1848  he  was 
elected  president  of  Girard  College,  and  he  held  that 
position  for  two  years.  He  died  Feb.  3,  I860.  Distin- 
guished for  his  great  legal  abilities,  judge  Jones  deserves 
a place  in  our  work  on  account  of  his  extended  re- 
searches in  the  Biblical  department.  II  is  acquirements 
extended  far  beyond  the  widest  range  of  professional  at- 
tainment. Judge  Jones  wrote  extensively  for  literary 
journals  and  quarterlies;  he  also  published  largely.  Of 
special  interest  to  the  theological  student  are,  Sforg  of 
Joseph,  or  Patriarchal  Age  (originally  published  for 
the  use  of  Girard  College  students): — The  Knowledge 
o f One  .1  notker  in  the  F 'uture  State : — Xotes  on  Scripture 
(published  by  his  widow,  Phila.  1860).  lie  also  edited 
several  English  works  on  Prophecy,  which  he  published 
under  the  title  of  Literalist  (5  vols.  8vo),  enriched  with 
many  valuable  additions  of  his  own ; and  translated 
from  the  French,  Outlines  of  a History  of  the  Court  of 
Rome  and  of  the  Temporal  Power  of  the  Popes  (to  which 
he  appended  many  original  notes).  Judge  Jones  was  a 
ruling  elder  in  the  Presbyterian  Church,  and  held  posi- 
tions iu  various  ecclesiastical  boards,  where  his  services 
wore  greatly  prized.  See  Princeton  Review,  Index,  ii, 
219  sq. 

Jones,  John  (l),  an  English  Roman  Catholic  the- 
ologian, was  born  at  London  in  1575.  lie  studied  at 
St.  John's  College,  Oxford,  w-here  he  roomed  with  Land, 
afterwards  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Having  turned 
Roniau  Catholic,  he  went  to  Spain,  completed  ids  stud- 
ies at  the  University  of  Compostello,  and  became  a 
Benedictine  under  the  name  of  Leunder  a Sancto- 
Mnrtiuo.  After  teaching  for  a while  Hebrew  and 
theology  in  the  College  of  St.  Vedast,  lie  returned  to 
England  at  the  invitation  of  Laud,  and  died  at  Lon- 
don, | )ec.  17,  1636.  He  wrote  Sacra  A rs  Memoria>,  ad 
Scripturas  dicinas  in  promptu  habendas  accomodata 
(I)ouay,  1623,  8vo): — Conciliatio  locornm  communium 
totins  Senptiine  (Douav,  1623,  Hvo).  He  also  publish- 
ed some  editions  of  the  Bible,  with  interlinear  glosses  (6 
vols.  liil.) ; of  the  works  of  Blosins ; of  Arnobe,  A dversus 
Rentes  (Douay,  1634);  and  worked  with  I’.  Rcvner  on 
the . 1 postolatus  Benedictinorum.  See  Wood,  A theme  Ox- 
oniensis,  vol.  i;  Dodd,  Ck.  History ; Hoofer,  Xouv.  Biog. 
Gene  rale,  xxvi,  905.  (J.  X.  P.) 

Jones,  John  (2),  an  English  Protestant,  divine,  was 
born  m 17ii0.  He  was  educated  at  Worcester  College 
Oxford,  and  ordained  in  1726.  Having  become  vicar 
of  Aeoulmry,  be  resigned  in  1751,  to  take  the  rectorv  of 
Moume  Burnt,  Bedfordshire.  His  death  was  caused  bv 
a fall  from  liis  horse;  the  time  of  its  occurrence  is  not 


recorded.  He  wrote  [Anon.]  Free  and  ca?idid Disquisi- 
tions relating  to  the  Church  of  England,  etc.  (Loud.  1749- 
50,  8vo) : this  work  produced  a great  controversy,  last- 
ing several  years  -.—Cursory  Animadversions  upon  “Free 
and  Candid' Disquisitions,"  etc.  (Lond.  1753, 8vo) : — Cath- 
olic Faith  and  Practice  (1765).  See  Nichols,  Literary 
Anecdotes;  London  Genii.  Magazine,  lxxxi,  pt.  i,  p.  510 
sq, , Allibone,  Diet.  Engl,  and  Am.  Auth.  ii,  s.  v. 

Jones,  John  (3),  LL.J).,  a Welsh  Socinian  divine 
and  philological  writer.  was  born  in  Caermarthenshire, 
and  educated  at  the  Unitarian  New  College,  Hackney. 
In  1792  Mr.  Jones  was  appointed  classical  and  mathe- 
matical teacher  in  the  Welsh  Academy,  Swansea,  which 
situation  he  held  about  three  years,  and  then  settled  at 
Plymouth  Dock  over  the  Unitarian  congregation.  In 
1797  lie  beeame  minister  of  the  Unitarian  congregation 
at  Halifax,  in  Yorkshire,  and  about  1800  he  removed  to 
London,  where  he  resided  during  the  remainder  of  his 
life,  chiefly  occupied  as  a classical  teacher,  and  preach- 
ing only  occasionally.  He  died  January  10,1827.  A 
few  years  before  his  death  he  received  the  diploma 
of  LL.D.  from  the  University  of  Aberdeen.  Dr.  Jones 
was  the  author  of  several  works,  some  of  which  are  re- 
ligions. chiefly  in  support  or  defence  of  the  evidences  of 
Christianity.  Of  these  the  most  important  are  Illustra- 
tions of  the  Four  Gospels,  founded  on  circumstances  pe- 
culiar to  our  Lord  and  the  Evangelists  (Lond.  1808, 8vo) : 
— Ecclesiastical  Researches,  or  Philo  and  Josephus  proved 
to  be  historians  and  apologists  of  Christ,  etc.  (London, 
1812 — a sequel,  1813,  2 vols.  8vo): — Epistle  to  the  Ro- 
mans analyzed  (1802,  8vo)  :—Xew  Version  of  the  Epis- 
tles to  the  Colossians,  Thessalonians,  Timothy,  Titus,  and 
the  general  Epistle  of  James  (1819-20, 12mo) : — Xew  Ver- 
sion of  the  frst  three  Chapters  of  Genesis  (1819,  8vo). 
He  also  wrote  a number  of  philological  works  which  are 
considered  valuable.  It  may  not.  be  out  of  place  here 
to  state  that  Dr.  Jones  was  the  first  English  philologian 
who  taught  Greek  by  the  medium  of  the  English  in- 
stead of  the  Latin.  See  Lond.  Genii.  Mag.  April,  1827; 
Engl.  Cgclop.  s.  v. ; Allibone,  Diet.  Engl,  and  Am.  A uth. 
ii,  s.  v. 

Jones,  John  M.,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister 
and  native  of  England,  was  horn  about  1810.  He  was 
educated  a Romanist  in  France,  and  while  young  emi- 
grated first  to  Canada  and  then  to  Maryland,  where  he 
was  a teacher  in  a Romish  institution  in  St.  George’s 
County.  He  was  converted  to  Protestantism  in  1834, 
and  two  years  after  entered  the  Baltimore  Conference, 
and  “for  twenty  years  pursued  the  ministerial  calling, 
laboring  day  and  night  with  quenchless  zeal  to  rescue 
souls  from  death.”  He  died  at  South  Baltimore  Sta- 
tion April  20, 1855.  He  “ was  a man  of  rare  excellence 
and  many  virtues,”  of  deep  piety,  and  an  able  and  de- 
voted minister. — Conf.  Minutes,  vi,  201.  (G.  L.  T.) 

Jones,  John  Taylor,  D.D.,  a Baptist  missionary, 
was  horn  at  New  Ipswich,  N.  II.,  July  16,  1802.  lie 
graduated  at  Amherst  College  in  1825;  studied  theology 
at  Andover  and  Newton  Seminary ; and,  having  joined 
the  Baptist  Church  in  1828,  was  the  following  year  ap- 
pointed a missionary  to  Bnrmah.  He  arrived  at  Maul- 
main,  his  destined  place  of  labor,  in  Feb.  1831,  and,  after 
having  mastered  the  Taling  and  Siamese  languages,  he 
was  chosen  to  go  to  the  kingdom  of  Siam,  and  reached 
Bangkok  in  April,  1833.  After  a successful  mission,  he 
left  Siam  in  1839,  on  account  of  his  children,  went  to 
Singapore,  and  thence  on  a visit  to  the  United  States. 
After  returning  to  Siam  for  six  years  he  came  home 
again  in  1846,  and  in  the  fall  of  1847  went  away  for  the 
last  time.  He  died  at  Bankok  Sept.  13, 1851.  The  de- 
gree of  D.D,  was  conferred  upon  him  a few  years  before 
his  death.  Dr.  Jones  published  three  tracts  in  Siam- 
ese, 1834;  and  a translation  of  the  New  Testament  in 
the  same  language,  Oct.  1843.  The  Rev.  William  Dean 
says  of  Dr.  Jones’s  qualifications  for  the  missionary 
work,  “ Take  him  altogether,  I have  never  seen  his 
equal ; and  among  more  than  a hundred  men  I have  met 


JONES 


1001 


JONES 


among  the  heathen,  I would  select  Dr.  Jones  as  the 
model  missionary.” — Sprague,  .4  minis  A m.  Pulpit , vi,772. 

Jones,  Joseph  Huntington,  D.D.,  an  able  Pres- 
byterian minister,  and  brother  of  judge  Joel  (see  above), 
was  bom  at  Coventry,  Conn..  Aug.  24, 1797,  and  gradu- 
ated at  Harvard  College  in  1817.  After  teaching  a short 
time  at  Bowdoin  College,  he  decided  on  the  ministry  for 
his  life-work,  and  entered  Princeton  Theological  Semi- 
nary. His  first  charge  he  entered  J une  1 , 1824,  at  Wood- 
bury, New  Jersey.  The  year  following,  after  a most 
successful  work  on  the  small  and  feeble  charge,  he  was 
called  to  New  Brunswick,  and  was  installed  the  second 
Wednesday  of  July,  1825.  In  1838  he  removed  to  Phil- 
adelphia, to  take  charge  of  the  Sixth  Presbyterian 
Church  in  that  city,  and  he  continued  his  relation  there 
for  twenty-three  years.  “ Beginning  with  a church  re- 
duced so  low  that  a resuscitation  was  deemed  well-nigh 
impossible,  and  struggling  with  difficulties  that  would 
have  discouraged  ordinary  men,  a manifest  blessing 
crowned  his  efforts.”  In  1861,  finding  that  the  secreta- 
ryship of  the  committee  on  the  “ fund  for  disabled  min- 
isters,” etc.,  which  he  had  filled  nearly  for  seven  years 
in  connection  with  his  pastoral  duties,  was  of  itself  oner- 
ous enough  in  its  duties,  he  resigned  his  position  as  pas- 
tor, and  devoted  himself  hereafter  entirely  to  this  noble 
cause  of  providing  for  those  of  his  brethren  who  were  in 
need  of  assistance.  He  died  Dec.  22, 1868,  in  the  midst 
of  his  work,  “ suddenly,  as  it  were  with  the  harness 
on.”  In  1843  Lafayette  College  conferred  on  him  the 
degree  of  D.D.  Dr.  Jones  published  Recitals  of  Relip- 
ion  (I’liila.  1839): — Effects  of  Physical  Causes  on  Chris- 
tian Experience  (1846,  and  often,  18mo): — Memoir  of 
the  Rev.  Ashbel  Green , D.D.  (N.  Y.  1849,  8vo)  : — History 
of  the  Revival  at  New  Brunswick  in  1837 ; and  several 
of  his  sermons  and  essays. — Princeton  Review , Index, 
voL  ii,  222  sq. 

Jones,  Lot,  D.D.,  a clergyman  of  the  Protestant 
Episcopal  Church,  was  born  in  Brunswick,  Maine,  Feb. 
21,  1797,  and  was  educated  at  Bowdoin  College,  Maine, 
where  he  graduated  in  1821.  Joining  the  Protestant 
Episcopal  Church,  he  studied  for  the  ministry  under 
bishop  Griswold,  and  was  by  him  ordained  deacon  Jan- 
uary, 1823,  and  priest  September,  1823.  In  1823  he  was 
settled  at  Marblehead  and  Marshfield.  Mass. ; in  1825  at 
Macon,  Ga.;  in  1827  at  Savannah;  in  1828  at  Gardiner, 
Maine:  in  1829  at  South  Leicester,  Mass.;  and  in  Jan- 
uary, 1833,  he  removed  to  New  York,  and  took  charge 
of  the  new  mission  church  of  the  Epiphany.  Here  liis 
humility,  single-hearted  devotion  to  his  one  great  work, 
and  untiring  industry,  made  his  ministry  remarkably 
effective.  In  1858  he  published  his  25th  anniversary 
discourse.  During  those  25  years  he  baptized  2501 — 253 
adults  and  2248  children,  married  759  couples,  presented 
915  for  confirmation,  enrolled  1494  as  communicants, 
and  attended  1362  funerals.  He  died  in  Philadelphia 
Oct.  12,  1865.  His  death  was  the  result  of  accident  in 
falling  upon  the  pavement  at  St.  Luke’s  Church,  where 
he  was  in  attendance  upon  the  meeting  of  the  Board  of 
Missions. — Church  Review , Jan.  1866. 

Jones,  Robert  C.,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minis- 
ter, was  born  at  Petersburg,  Va.,  Dec.  23,  1808.  lie 
graduated  at  William  and  Mary’s  College  in  1828,  stud- 
ied law  and  was  ready  for  practice,  when  he  was  con- 
verted in  1833,  and  at  once  prepared  for  the  ministry. 
He  entered  the  Yirginia  Conference  in  1836,  and  died 
Aug.  2,  1838.  Mr.  Jones  was  a man  of  good  abilities, 
much  modesty,  and  a consistent  witness  of  sanctifying 
grace.  He  was  a dignified  and  conscientious  minister, 
and  a very  successful  evangelist. — Corf.  Minutes,  ii,  667. 

Jones,  Samuel,  D.D.,  a Baptist  minister,  was 
born  in  Glamorganshire,  South  Wales,  Jan.  14, 1735,  and 
was  brought  by  his  parents  to  this  country  during  his 
infancy,  and  was  educated  in  the  College  of  Philadel- 
phia, where  he  received  the  degree  of  M.A.  May  18, 
1762,  and  turned  his  attention  to  the  study  of  theology. 
He  was  ordained  in  January,  1763,  and  became  pastor 


of  the  united  churches  of  Pennepek  and  Southampton. 
In  the  same  year  lie,  by  request,  remodelled  the  draft 
of  the  charter  of  a college  in  Newport,  R.  I.,  which  in- 
stitution afterwards  became  Brown  University.  In  1770 
he  resigned  the  care  of  the  Southampton  Church,  and 
devoted  himself  thereafter  to  that  of  Pennepek,  after- 
wards called  Lower  Dublin.  He  received  the  honorary 
degree  of  M.A.  from  the  College  of  Rhode  Island  in 
1769,  and  that  of  D.D.  from  the  College  of  Pennsylva- 
nia in  1788.  While  attending  faithfully  to  his  minis- 
terial labors,  he  also  devoted  much  time  to  teaching,  in 
which  he  was  very  successful.  He  died  Feb.  7,  1814. 
Dr.  Jones  made  several  compilations  for  divers  associa- 
tions in  which  he  filled  high  offices,  and  published  some 
occasional  sermons — Sprague,  Annals,  vi,  104  sq. 

Jones,  Thomas,  an  English  divine,  was  bom  in 
1729,  and  educated  at  Queen’s  College,  Cambridge.  He 
was  chaplain  at  St.  Savior’s,  Southwark,  and  is  noted  for 
his  deep  piety  and’ great  exertions  in  behalf  of  the  con- 
version of  the  masses  at  a time  when  the  English  pulpit 
was  in  that  deep  lethargy  from  which  Wesley  and  his 
coadjutors  first  earnestly  aroused  it.  Like  the  Wesley- 
ans,  he  met  with  much  opposition  in  his  noble  efforts, 
and  “his  sweetness  of  natural  temper,”  says  his  biogra- 
pher, “great  as  it  was,  would  never  have  supported  him 
under  the  numberless  insults  he  met  with  had  it  not 
been  strengthened,  as  well  as  adorned,  by  a sublimer 
influence.”  1 1 is  health  finally  gave  way  under  his  ex- 
traordinary labors,  and  he  died,  while  yet  a young  man, 
in  1761. — Middleton,  Evany.  Biop.  iv,  380. 

Jones,  William,  M.A..  E.R.S.,  of  Nayland.  as  he 
is  generally  called,  was  born  at  Lowick,  in  Northamp- 
tonshire, July  30.  1726.  He  was  educated  at  the  Char- 
ter House  and  University  College,  Oxford.  He  there 
became  a convert  to  the  philosophy  of  Hutchinson,  and, 
having  induced  Mr.  Horne,  afterwards  bishop  of  Nor- 
wich, to  adopt  the  same  system,  together  they  became 
the  principal  champions  of  that  philosophy.  He  was 
admitted  to  deacon’s  orders  after  having  received  the 
degree  of  B.A.,  in  1749.  In  1751  he  was  ordained  priest 
by  the  bishop  of  Lincoln,  and  on  quitting  the  university 
became  curate  of  Finedon,  and  afterwards  of  Wadsolioe, 
both  in  his  native  county.  In  1764  archbishop  Seeker 
presented  him  to  the  vicarage  of  Bethersden,  in  Kent, 
and  in  the  next  year  to  the  rectory  of  Pluckley,  in  the 
same  county.  In  1776  he  took  up  his  residence  at  Nay- 
land,  in  Suffolk,  where  he  held  the  perpetual  curacy ; 
and  soon  after  he  exchanged  his  living  of  Pluckley  for 
the  rectory  of  Paston,  in  Northamptonshire.  In  1780 
he  became  fellow  of  the  Royal  Society  of  London.  Dur- 
ing many  years  he  was  engaged  in  the  composition  of  a 
treatise  on  philosophy,  which  was  intended  to  elucidate 
his  favorite  system.  In  that  work  he  displayed  great 
learning  and  ingenuity,  as  well  as  ardent  attachment  to 
the  interests  of  piety  and  virtue,  united  with  the  eccen- 
tric peculiarities  of  the  Hutcliinsonian  school.  Alarmed 
at  the  progress  of  radical  and  revolutionary  opinions 
during  the  French  Revolution,  he  employed  his  pen  in 
opposition  to  the  advocates  of  such  destructive  princi- 
ples, and  his  writings  were  widely  circidated  by  the 
friends  of  the  British  government.  He  treated  with 
equal  success  questions  of  theology,  morals,  literature, 
philosophy,  and.  in  addition  to  all  these,  showed  great 
talents  in  musical  composition.  “He  was  a man  of 
quick  penetration,”  says  bishop  Horsley,  “of  extensive 
learning,  and  the  soundest  piety,  and  he  had  the  talent 
of  writing  upon  the  deepest  subjects  for  the  plainest  un- 
derstanding.” In  the  year  1792  he  met  with  a severe 
loss  in  the  death  of  his  most  intimate  friend,  bishop 
Horne,  to  whom  he  was  chaplain.  Being  now  of  ad- 
vanced age,  and  obliged,  by  his  growing  infirmities,  to 
discontinue  his  practice  of  taking  pupils,  that  he  might 
not  be  subjected  to  inconvenience  from  the  diminntio.n 
of  his  income,  in  the  year  1798  the  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury presented  him  to  the  sinecure  rectory  of  IIul- 
lingbourn  in  Kent,  which,  however,  he  did  not  live  long 


JONES 


1002 


JOPPA 


to  enjoy,  living  Feb.  6, 1800,  in  consequence  of  a para- 
lytic .stroke.  His  most  important  works  are,  A full 
A nsirer  to  J ip.  Clayton's  Essay  on  Spirit  (1753,  8vo):— 
Catholic  Doctrine  of  the  Trinity  proved  from  Scripture 
(1757)  -.  — Course  of  Lectures  on  the  Figurative  Lan- 
guage of  the  Holy  Scriptures  (1787,  8vo):  — Sermons 
(171)11,  2 vols.  8vo): — The  Scholar  armed  against  the 
Errors  of  the  Times  (2  vols.  8vo) Memoirs  of  the  Life, 
Studies,  and  Writings  of  George  Home  (1795  and  1799, 
8vo).  The  most  complete  collection  of  his  works  is  that 
in  pi  vols.  8vo  (Loud.  1801).  The  theological  and  mis- 
c.dlaneous  works  were  republished  separately  (London, 
1.S10,  G vols.  8vo).  Two  posthumous  volumes  of  ser- 
mons were  published  for  the  first  time  in  1830  (London, 
8vo).  See  \V.  Stevens,  Life  of  IT.  Jones  (1801) , Aikin, 
Gen.  Biography',  Hoofer,  Nonv.  Biogr.  Generate,  xxvi, 
908;  Ihick ; Davenport;  Darling,  Cyclopedia  Bihliog.  ii, 
1682.  (E.  de  P.) 

Jones,  Sir  William,  an  eminent  poet,  scholar, 
and  lawyer,  was  bom  in  London  Sept.  28, 1746,  and  was 
sent  to  Harrow  in  1753,  where  he  soon  eclipsed  all  his 
fellows,  particularly  in  classical  knowledge.  In  17G4  he 
was  entered  at  University  College,  Oxford,  where  he  was 
enabled  to  gratify  that  desire  for  a knowledge  of  the 
( Irieutal  languages  which  had  shown  itself  during  the 
last  two  years  of  his  residence  at  Harrow.  In  1765  he 
left  Oxford,  to  become  tutor  to  the  eldest  son  of  earl 
Spencer,  with  whom  he  travelled  on  the  Continent.  In 
1770  he  was  admitted  to  the  Inner  Temple,  and  the 
same  year  he  published,  at  the  request  of  the  king  of 
Denmark,  a Life  of  Xadir  Shah,  translated  into  French 
from  the  Persian ; in  the  following  year  a Persian  Gram- 
mar, republished  some  years  ago,  with  corrections  and 
additions,  by  the  late  professor  Lee;  and  in  1774  his  i 
Commentaries  on  Asiatic  Poetry,  republished  by  Eicli- 
hom  at  Lcipsic  in  177G.  In  177G  he  was  made  a com- 
missioner of  bankrupts.  In  1780  he  completed  a trans- 
lation of  seven  Arabic  poems,  known  as  the  Moalldkat; 
wrote  an  essay  On  the  Legal  Mode  of  Suppressing  Plots,  ' 
and  another,  entitled  Essay  on  the  Law  of  Bailments,  \ 
and  two  or  three  odes.  In  March,  1783,  Jones  obtained  1 
a judgeship  in  the  Supreme  Court  of  Judicature  in  Ben- 
gal, and  landed  at  Calcutta  in  September.  He  at  once 
set  about  the  acquisition  and  promulgation  of  the  knowl- 
edge of  Oriental  languages,  literature,  and  customs.  He 
established  the  Koval  Asiatic  Society  “for  investigating 
the  history,  antiquities,  arts,  sciences,  and  literature  of 
Asia/’  of  which  he  was  the  first  president.  To  the  vol- 
umes of  the  Asiatic  Researches  Sir  William  contributed 
largely.  Besides  these,  he  wrote  and  published  a story  ! 
in  verse,  called  The  Enchanted  Fruit,  or  the  Hindu  Wife;  \ 
and  a translation  of  an  ancient  Indian  drama,  cailed 
Sncontuln,  or  the  Fatal  Ring.  A translation  by  him  of 
the  Ordinances  of  Menu  (q.  v.)  appeared  in  1794.  He 
was  busily  employed  on  a digest  of  the.  Hindu  and  Mo- 
hammedan laws,  when  lie  was  attacked  with  an  inflam- 
mation of  the  liver,  which  terminated  fatally  April  27, 
1794.  Sir  Wm.  Jones  was  one  of  the  first  linguists  and 
Oriental  scholars  that  Croat  Britain  has  produced,  be- 
ing  more  or  less  acquainted  with  no  less  than  twentv- 
eiglit  different  languages.  11  is  poems  are  always  ele- 
gant, often  animated,  and  their  versification  is  melliflu- 
ous. I Its  learning  was  extensive,  his  legal  knowledge 
was  profound,  and  lie  was  an  enlightened  and  zealous 
champion  of  constitutional  principles.  He  was  also  an 
earnest  ( hristian.  To  devotional  exercises  he  was  lia- 
lr'ir  ''  ®tte,,tl  ve-  1 11  addition  to  the  above  works,  Sir 
\\  ill  lain  Jones  published  a translation  of  Isams , and  also 
translations  of  two  Mohammedan  law  tracts  On  the  Law 
oj  Inheritance,  and  of  Succession  to  Property  of  I ntes- 

XaerF  \ Tl  h :-T,ro'  to 

JracnU;  and  Extracts  from  the  Vedas.  The  East  In- 

(ha  Company  erected  a monument  to  his  memorv  in  St. 

Lb  1 n ■'  a\a,,<.1  a Statue  in  Hensal.  A complete  i. 
Jo  ™ 1 , -S,W°rk? 111  6rK  4t°’  'VaS  PuWi8hwl  by  lad v tb 
do  c*  m b!)  ; and  another  appeared, in  13  vols.  8vo,  in 
180/,  with  a life  of  the  author  by  lord  Teignmouth. 


Jonsson,  Finn  (known  also  by  the  Latin  name 
of  Finnus  Johunnceus'),  the  historian  of  the  Icelandic 
Church  and  literature,  was  born  on  the  16th  of  January, 
1704,  at  Hitardal,  in  Iceland,  where  his  father,  Jon  Hal- 
dorsson,  was  minister.  He  was  educated  at  the  School 
of  Skalholt,  and  in  1725  passed  to  the  University  of  Co- 
penhagen. On  his  return  to  Iceland  his  intention  was 
to  become  a lawyer,  but  the  death  of  his  uncle,  a parish 
priest,  who  left  behind  him  a numerous  family  of  small 
children,  led  his  father  to  request  him  to  alter  his  views 
to  the  Church,  that  he  might  bring  up  the  orphans.  He 
obtained  the  vacant  benefice,  brought  up  the  family, 
married,  and  in  1754  was  appointed  to  the  bishopric  of 
Skalholt.  He  was  very  attentive  to  the  revenues  of  his 
diocese,  and  the  account  of  his  episcopate  by  Petursson 
is  chiefly  occupied  with  his  disputes  with  refractory 
tenants  of  Church  property.  He  died  oil  the  23d  of 
July,  1789.  He  composed  several  works  in  Latin  and 
Icelandic,  especially  a Ilistoria  Ecclesiastica  Islandice, 
first  published  with  valuable  additions  by  his  son  Fii in- 
son  (Copenhagen,  1772-8,  4 vols.  4to),  and  continued  by 
Petursson  down  to  1840  (ib.  1841),  a valuable  and  inter- 
esting work,  embracing  the  literary  as  well  as  ecclesias- 
tical affairs  of  Iceland. — English  Cyclop,  s.  v. 


Jop'pa  (Heb.  Yapho’,  "2^,  Josh,  xix,  46;  2 Chron. 
ii,  16;  Jonah  i,  3,  or  5V2‘,!  Ezra  iii,  7 ; beauty ; Sep t.,  N. 
T.,  and  Josephus  ’lomn],  other  Greek  writers  ‘Imwtij, 
’lihirt],  or  ’low?] ; Vulgate  Joppe ; Autli.Vers.  “Japlio,” 
except  in  Jonah;  usually  “Joppe”  in  the  Apocrypha), 
a town  on  the  south-west  coast  of  Palestine,  the  port  of 
Jerusalem  in  the  days  of  Solomon,  as  it  has  been  ever 
since. 

1.  Legends. — The  etymology  of  the  name  is  variously 
explained  ; Kabbinical  writers  deriving  it  from  Japhet, 
but  classical  geographers  from  Jopa  (low?]),  daughter 
of  riSolus  and  wife  of  Cepheus,  Andromeda’s  father,  its 
reputed  founder;  others  interpreting  it  “the  watch- 
tower  of  joy,”  and  so  forth  (Iieland,  Palcest.  p.  864). 
The  fact  is,  that,  from  its  being  a sea-port,  it  had  a pro- 
fane as  well  as  a sacred  history.  Pliny,  following  Mela 
{De  situ  Orb.  i,  12),  says  that  it  was  of  antediluvian  an- 
tiquity {Hist.  Nat.  v,  14);  and  even  Sir  John  Maunde- 
ville,  in  the  14th  century,  bears  witness — though,  it  must 
be  confessed,  a clumsy  one  — to  that  tradition  {Early 
Travels  in  P.  p.  142).  According  to  Josephus,  it  origin- 
ally belonged  to  the  Phoenicians  (A  nt.  xiii,  1 5, 4).  Here, 
writes  Strabo,  some  say  Andromeda  was  exposed  to  the 
w'hale  {Geograph,  xvi,  p.759;  comp.  Muller’s  Hist.  Greec. 
Frag???,  iv,  325,  and  his  Geograph.  G?'eec.  Min.  i,  79),  and 
he  appeals  to  its  elevated  position  in  behalf  of  those  wdio 
laid  the  scene  there;  though,  in  order  to  do  so  consis- 
tently, he  had  already  shown  that  it  would  he  neces- 
sary to  transport  ^Ethiopia  into  Phoenicia  (Strabo,  i, 
43).  However,  in  Pliny’s  age — and  Josephus  had  just 
before  affirmed  the  same  ( lUar,  iii,  9,  3)  — they  still 
showed  the  chains  by  which  Andromeda  was  bound ; 
and  not  only  so,  but  M.  Scaurus  the  younger,  the  same 
that  was  so  much  employed  in  Judaea  by  Ponipev  ( lUar, 
i,  6,  2 sq.),  had  the  bones  of  the  monster  transported  to 
Kome  from  Joppa,  where  till  then  they  had  been  ex- 
hibited (Mela,  ibid.),  and  displayed  them  there  during 
his  tedileship  to  the  public  amongst  other  prodigies. 
Nor  would  they  have  been  uninteresting  to  the  modern 
geologist,  if  his  report  be  correct ; for  they  measured 
forty  feet  in  length,  the  span  of  the  ribs  exceeding  that 
of  the  Indian  elephant,  and  the  thickness  of  the  spine 
or  vertebra  being  one  foot  and  a ball’ (“sesqnipedalis,” 
i.  e.  in  circumference — when  Solinus  says  “ semipedalis,” 
he  means  in  diameter,  see  Pliny,  Ilist.  Nat.  ix,  5 and 
the  note,  Delphin  eel.).  Belaud  would  trace  the  adven- 
tures of  Jonah  in  this  legendary  guise  [see  Jonah]; 
hut  it  is  far  more  probable  that  it  symbolizes  the  first 
interchange  of  commerce  between  the  Greeks,  personi- 
fied in  their  errant  hero  Perseus,  and  the  Phoenicians, 
whose  lovely,  but  till  then  unexplored  clime  may  be 
shadowed  forth  in  the  fair  virgin  Andromeda.  Perseus, 


JOPPA 


1003 


JOPPA 


in  the  tale,  is  said  to  have  plunged  his  dagger  into  the 
right  shoulder  of  the  monster.  Possibly  lie  may  have 
discovered  or  improved  the  harbor,  the  roar  from  whose 
foaming  reefs  on  the  north  could  scarcely  have  been 
surpassed  by  the  barkings  of  Seylla  or  Charybdis.  Even 
the  chains  shown  there  may  have  been  those  by  which 
his  ship  was  attached  to  the  shore.  Kings  used  by  the 
Romans  for  mooring  their  vessels  are  still  to  be  seen 
near  Terracina,  in  the  south  angle  of  the  ancient  port 
(Murray’s  Handbk.for  S.  Italy,  p.  10, 2d  ed.). 

2.  History. — We  find  that  Japho  or  Joppa  was  situa- 
ted in  the  portion  of  Dan  (Josh,  xix,  40),  on  the  coast 
towards  the  south,  and  on  a hill  so  high,  says  Strabo, 
that  people  affirmed  (but  incorrectly)  that  Jerusalem 
was  visible  from  its  summit.  Having  a harbor  attach- 
ed to  it — though  always,  as  still,  a dangerous  one — it 
became  the  port  of  Jerusalem,  when  Jerusalem  became 
metropolis  of  the  kingdom  of  the  house  of  David,  and 
certainly  never  did  port  and  metropolis  more  strikingly 
resemble  each  other  in  difficulty  of  approach  both  by 
sea  and  land.  Hence,  except  in  journeys  to  and  from 
Jerusalem,  it  was  not  much  used.  Accordingly,  after 
the  above  incidental  notice,  the  place  is  not  mentioned 
till  the  times  of  Solomon,  when,  as  being  almost  the 
only  available  sea-port,  Joppa  was  the  place  fixed  upon 
for  the  cedar  and  pine  wood  from  Mount  Lebanon  to  be 
landed  by  the  servants  of  Hiram,  king  of  Tyre,  thence 
to  be  conveyed  to  Jerusalem  by  the  servants  of  Solo- 
mon for  the  erection  of  the  first  “house  of  habitation” 
ever  made  with  hands  for  the  invisible  Jehovah.  It 
wras  by  way  of  Joppa  similarly  that  like  materials  were 
conveyed  from  the  same  locality,  by  permission  of  Cy- 
rus, for  the  rebuilding  of  the  second  Temple  under  Ze- 
rubbabel  (1  Kings  v,  9;  2 Chron.  ii,  16;  Ezra  iii,  7). 
Here  Jonah,  whenever  and  wherever  he  may  have  lived 
(2  Kings  xiv,  25,  certainly  does  not  clear  up  the  first  of 
these  points),  “ took  ship  to  fiee  from  the  presence  of 
his  Maker”  (Jonah  i,3),  and  accomplished  that  singular 
history  which  our  Lord  has  appropriated  as  a type  of 
one  of  the  principal  scenes  in  the  great  drama  of  his 
own  (Matt.  xii,40). 

After  the  close  of  O.-T.  history  Joppa  rose  in  impor- 
tance. The  sea  was  then  beginning  to  be  the  highway 
of  nations.  Greece,  Egypt,  Persia,  and  some  of  the  lit- 
tle kingdoms  of  Asia  Minor  had  their  fleets  for  com- 
merce and  war.  Until  the  construction  of  Caesarea  by 
Herod,  Joppa  was  the  only  port  in  Palestine  proper  at 
which  foreign  ships  could  touch;  it  was  thus  not  only 
the  shipping  capital,  but  the  key  of  the  whole  country 
on  the  sea-board.  During  the  wars  of  the  Maccabees  it 
was  one  of  the  principal  strongholds  of  Palestine  (1 
Macc.  x,  75;  xiv,  5,  34;  Josephus,  Ant.  xiii,  15, 1).  It 
would  seem  that  Jews  then  constituted  only  a minority 
of  the  population,  and  the  foreign  residents — Greeks, 
Egyptians,  and  Syrians — were  so  rich  and  powerful,  and 
so  aided  by  the  fleets  of  their  own  nations,  as  to  be  able 
to  rule  the  city.  During  this  period,  therefore,  Joppa 
experienced  many  vicissitudes.  It  had  sided  with  Apol- 
lonius, and  was  attacked  and  captured  by  Jonathan  Mac- 
cabteus  (1  Macc.  x,  76).  It  witnessed  the  meeting  be- 
tween the  latter  and  Ptolemy  (ibid.  xi,6).  Simon  had 
his  suspicions  of  its  inhabitants,  and  set  a garrison  there 
(ibid,  xii,  34),  which  he  afterwards  strengthened  con- 
siderably (ibid,  xiii,  11).  But  when  peace  was  restored, 
he  re-established  it  once  more  as  a haven  (ibid,  xiv,  5). 
He  likewise  rebuilt  the  fortifications  (ibid,  v,  34).  This 
occupation  of  Joppa  w'as  one  of  the  grounds  of  com- 
plaint urged  by  Antiochus,  son  of  Demetrius,  against 
Simon ; but  the  latter  alleged  in  excuse  the  mischief 
which  had  been  done  bjr  its  inhabitants  to  his  fellow- 
citizens  (ibid,  xv,  30  and  35).  It  would  appear  that  Ju- 
das Maccaba?us  had  burnt  their  haven  some  time  back 
for  a gross  act  of  barbarity  (2  Macc.  xii,  6).  Tribute 
was  subsequently  exacted  for  its  possession  fronTHyr- 
canus  by  Antiochus  Sidetes.  By  Pompey  it  was  once 
more  made  independent,  and  comprehended  mider  Syria 
(Josephus,  Ant.  xiv,  4, 4) ; but  by  Ca*sar  it  was  not  only 


restored  to  the  Jews,  but  its  revenues — whether  from 
land  or  from  export-duties — were  bestowed  upon  the  2d 
Hy rcanus  and  his  heirs  (xiv,  10,  6).  When  Herod  the 
Great  commenced  operations,  it  was  seized  by  him,  lest 
he  should  leave  a hostile  stronghold  in  his  rear  when  he 
marched  upon  Jerusalem  (xiv,  15, 1),  and  Augustus  con- 
firmed him  in  its  possession  (xv,  7,  4).  It  was  after- 
wards assigned  to  Archelaus  when  constituted  ethnarch 
(xvii,  11,4),  and  passed  with  Syria  under  Cyrenius  when 
Archelaus  had  been  deposed  (xvii,  12,  5).  Under  Ces- 
tius  (i.  e.  Gessius  Florus)  it  was  destroyed  amidst  great 
slaughter  of  its  inhabitants  (11 rar,  ii,  18, 10);  and  such 
a nest  of  pirates  had  it  become  when  Vespasian  arrived 
in  those  parts  that  it  underwent  a second  and  entire 
destruction,  together  with  the  adjacent  villages,  at  his 
hands  (iii,  9, 3).  Thus  it  appears  that  this  port  had  al- 
ready begun  to  be  the  den  of  robbers  and  outcasts  which 
it  was  in  Strabo’s  time  (Geograph,  xvi,  759),  while  the 
district  around  it  was  so  populous  that  from  Jamnia,  a 
neighboring  town,  and  its  vicinity,  40,000  armed  men 
could  be  collected  (ibid.).  There  was  a vast  plain 
around  it,  as  we  learn  from  Josephus  (Ant.  xiii,  4, 4) ; it 
lay  between  Jamnia  and  Ca?sarea — the  latter  of  which 
might  be  reached  “on  the  morrow”  from  it  (Acts  x,  9 
and  24) — not  far  from  Lydda  (Acts  ix,  38),  and  distant 
from  Antipatris  150  stadia  (Joseph.  Ant.  xiii,  15, 1). 

It  was  at  Joppa,  on  the  house-top  of  Simon  the  tan- 
ner, “hy  the  sea-side”  — with  the  view  therefore  cir- 
cumscribed on  the  east  by  the  high  ground  on  which 
the  town  stood,  but  commanding  a boundless  prospect 
over  the  western  waters — that  the  apostle  I’eter  had  his 
“ vision  of  tolerance,”  as  it  has  been  happily  designated, 
and  went  forth  like  a second  Perseus — but  from  the 
east  to  emancipate,  from  still  worse  thraldom,  the  vir- 
gin daughter  of  the  west.  The  Christian  poet  Arator 
has  not  failed  to  discover  a mystical  connection  between 
the  raising  to  life  of  the  aged  Tabitha — the  occasion  of 
Peter’s  visit  to  Joppa — and  the  baptism  of  the  first 
Gentile  household  ( De  Act.  Apostol.  1.  840,  ap.  Migne, 
Patrol.  Curs.  Compl.  lxviii,  164). 

In  the  4th  century  Eusebius  calls  Joppa  a city  (Ono- 
mast.  s.  v.)  ; and  it  was  then  made  the  seat  of  a bishop- 
ric, an  honor  which  it  retained  till  the  conquest  of  the 
country  by  the  Saracens  (Reland,  p.  868;  S.  Paul,  Geogr. 
Sac.  p.  305) ; the  subscriptions  of  its  prelates  are  pre- 
served in  the  acts  of  various  synods  of  the  5tn  and  6th 
centuries  (Le  Quien,  Oriens  Christian,  iii,  629).  Joppa 
has  been  the  landing-place  of  pilgrims  going  to  Jerusa- 
lem for  more  than  a thousand  years,  from  Arculf  in  the 
7th  century  to  his  royal  highness  the  prince  of  Wales 
in  the  19tli,  and  it  is  mentioned  in  almost  all  the  itin- 
eraries and  hooks  of  travel  in  the  Holy  Land  which  have 
appeared  in  different  languages  (Early  Travels  in  Pal. 

р.  10,  34, 142,  286).  None  of  the  early  travellers,  how- 
ever, give  ain*explicit  description  of  the  place.  Dur- 
ing the  Crusades  Joppa  was  several  times  taken  and 
retaken  by  Franks  and  Saracens.  It  had  been  taken 
possession  of  by  the  forces  of  Godfrey  de  Bouillon  pre- 
viously to  the  capture  of  Jerusalem.  The  town  had 
been  deserted,  and  was  allowed  to  fall  into  rum,  the 
Crusaders  contenting  themselves  with  possession  of  the 
citadel  (William  of  Tyre,  Hist,  viii,  9);  and  it  was  in 
part  assigned  subsequently  for  the  support  of  the  Church 
of  the  Resurrection  (ibid,  ix,  16),  though  there  seem 
to  have  been  bishops  of  Joppa  (perhaps  only  titular 
after  all)  between  A.D.  1253  and  13G3  (Le  Quien,  1291 ; 
compare  p.  1241).  Saladin,  in  A.D.  1188,  destroyed  its 
fortifications  (Samit.  Secret.  Fid.  Crucis,  lib.  iii,  part  x, 

с.  5);  but  Richard  of  England,  who  was  confined  here 
by  sickness,  rebuilt  them  (ibid.,  and  Richard  of  Devizes 
in  Bohn’s  A nt.  Lib.  p.  61).  Its  last  occupation  by  Chris- 
tians was  that  of  St.  Louis,  A.D.  1253,  and  when  he  came 
it  was  still  a city  and  governed  by  a count.  “ Of  the 
immense  sums,”  says  Joinville,  “ which  it  cost  the  king 
to  inclose  Jaffa,  it  does  not  become  me  to  speak,  for 
they  were  countless.  He  inclosed  the  town  from  one 
side  of  the  sea  to  the  other;  and  there  were  twenty- 


1004 


JORDAN 


JOPPA 

four  towers,  including  small  and  great.  The  ditches 
were  well  scoured,  and  kept  clean,  both  within  and 
without.  There  were  three  gates’  (Chron.  of  Crus.  p. 

4 <15  Holm).  So  restored,  it  fell  into  the  hands  of  the 
sultans  of  Egvpt,  together  with  the  rest  of  Palestine, 
bv  whom  it  was  once  more  laid  in  ruins;  so  much  so 
that  11  r fraud  de  la  llrocquiere,  visiting  it  about  the  ( 
middle  of  the  loth  century,  states  that  it  then  consisted 
only  <>f  a few  tents  covered  with  reeds,  having  been  a 
strong  place  under  the  Christians.  Guides,  accredited 
hv  the  sultan,  here  met  the  pilgrims  and  received  the 
customary  tribute  from  them:  and  here  the  papal  in- 
dulgences offered  to  pilgrims  commenced  {Early  Trav- 
elst p.  ysG).  Finally,  Jaffa  fell  under  the  Turks,  in  whose 
hand's  it  still  is,  exhibiting  the  usual  decrepitude  of  the 
cities  possessed  by  them,  and  depending  on  Christian 
commerce  for  its  feeble  existence.  During  the  period 
of  their  rule  it  has  been  three  times  sacked  — by  the 
Arabs  in  1722,  by  the  Mamelukes  in  1775,  and  lastly 
by  Napoleon  I in  1709,  when  a body  of  4000  Albanians, 
who  held  a strong  position  in  the  towD,  surrendered  on 
promise  of  having  their  lives  spared.  Yet  the  whole 
4000  were  afterwards  pinioned  and  shot  on  the  strand ! 
When  Napoleon  was  compelled  to  retreat  to  Egypt,  be- 
tween 400  and  500  French  soldiers  lay  ill  of  the  plague 
in  the  hospitals  of  Joppa.  They  could  not  be  removed, 
and  Napoleon  ordered  them  to  be  poisoned!  (Porter, 
llatvlbook  for  S.  and  P.  p.  288). 

3.  Description. — Yafa  is  the  modern  name  of  Joppa, 
and  is  identical  with  the  old  Hebrew  Japho.  It  con- 
tains about  5000  inhabitants,  of  whom  1000  are  Chris- 
tians, about  150  Jews,  and  the  rest  Moslems.  It  is 
beautifully  situated  on  a little  rounded  hill,  dipping  on 
the  west  into  the  waves  of  the  Mediterranean,  and  on 
the  land  side  encompassed  by  orchards  of  orange,  lemon, 
apricot,  and  other  trees,  which  for  luxuriance  and  beau- 
ty are  not  surpassed  in  the  world.  They  extend  for  1 
several  miles  across  the  great  plain.  Like  most  Orien-  I 
taL  towns,  however,  it  looks  best,  in  the  distance.  The 
houses  are  huddled  together  without  order;  the  streets 
are  narrow,  crooked,  and  filthy;  the  town  is  so  crowded 
along  the  steep  sides  of  the  hill  that  the  rickety  dwell- 
ings in  the  upper  part  seem  to  he  toppling  over  on  the 
Hat  roofs  of  those  below.  The  most  prominent  features 
of  the  architecture  from  without  are  the  flattened  domes 
by  which  most  of  the  buildings  are  surmounted,  and  the 
appearance  of  arched  vaults.  But  the  aspect  of  the 
whole  is  mean  and  gloomy,  and  inside  the  place  has  all 
the  appearance  of  a poor  though  large  village.  From 
the  steepness  of  the  site  many  of  the  streets  are  con- 
nected by  flights  of  steps,  and  the  one  that  runs  along 
the  sea-wall  is  the  most  clean  and  regular  of  the  whole. 
There  are  three  mosques  in  Joppa,  and  Latin,  Greek, 
and  Armenian  convents.  The  former  is  that  in  which 
European  pilgrims  and  travellers  usually  lodge.  The 
bazaars  are  worth  a visit.  The  chief  manufacture  is 
soap.  It  has  no  port,  and  it  is  only  under  favorable 
circumstances  of  wind  and  weather  that  vessels  can 
ride  at  anchor  a mile  or  so  from  the  shore.  There 
is  a place  on  the  shore  which  is  called  “ the  har- 
bor.” It  consists  of  a strip  of  water  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  yards  wide  and  two  or  three  deep,  inclosed  on  1 
the  sea  side  by  a ridge  of  low  and  partially  sunken 
rocks.  It  may  afford  a little  shelter  to  boats,  but  it  is 
worse  than  useless  so  far  as  commerce  is  concerned. 
The  town  is  defended  by  a wall,  on  which  a few  old 
guns  are  mounted.  With  the  exception  of  a few  broken 
columns  scattered  about  the  streets,  and  through  the 
gardens  on  the  southern  slope  of  the  hill,  and  the  large 
stones  in  the  foundations  of  the  castle,  Joppa  has  no  re- 
mains of  antiquity;  and  none  of  its  modern  buildings, 
not  even  the  reputed  “house  of  Simon  the  tanner,” 
which  the  monks  show,  are  worthy  of  note,  although 
the  locality  of  the  last  is  not  badly  chosen  (Stanley,  S. 
an  l P.  p.  2G:3,  27  4 ; and  see  Seddon’s  Memoir,  p.  86, 185). 
'llic  town  has  still  a considerable  trade  as  the  port  of 
Jerusalem.  The  oranges  of  Jaffa  are  the  finest  in  all 


Palestine  and  Syria;  its  pomegranates  and  watermelons 
are  likewise  in  high  repute,  and  its  gardens  and  orange 
and  citron  groves  deliciously  fragrant  and  fertile.  But 
among  its  population  are  fugitives  and  vagabonds  from 
all  countries;  and  Europeans  have  little  security,  wheth- 
er of  life  or  property,  to  induce  a permanent  abode  there. 
A British  consul  is  now  resident  in  the  place,  and  a rail- 
road has  been  projected  to  Jerusalem. 

See  Raumer’s  Palastina ; Volney,  i,  136  sq. ; Chateau- 
briand, ii,  103 , Clarke,  iv,  438  sq. ; Buckingham,  i,  227 
sq. ; Richter,  p.  12;  Richardson,  ii,  1G;  Skinner,  i,  175- 
184;  Robinson,  i,  18;  Stent,  ii,  27,  M‘Culloeh’s  Gazet- 
teer ; Reland,  p.  864 ; Cellar.  Xot.  ii,  524 ; Haraelsveld,  i, 
442;  ii,  229;  Ilasselquist,  p.  137 ; Niebuhr,  iii,  41;  Jol- 
iffe,  p.243;  Light,  p.  125;  Ritter,  Erdk.  ii,  400 ; Schwarz, 
p.  142,  373,  375 ; Thomson,  Land  and  Book,  ii,  273. — 
Kitto;  Smith. 

Jop'pe  (loirmf),  the  Greek  form  (1  Esdr.  v,  55;  l 
jNIacc.  x,  75,  76;  xi,  6 ; xii,  33 ; xiii,  11  ; xiv,  5,  34 ; xv, 
28,35;  2 Mace,  iv,  21;  xii,3,7  [To7r7rir>/c;])  of  the  name 
of  the  town  Joppa  (q.  v.). 

Jo 'rah  (Heb.  Yorah',  STli"1,  prob.  for  sprink - 

ling,  or  autumnal  rain  ; Sept.  ’Lopd  v.  r.  Ovpd,  Ynlg. 
Jora ),  a man  whose  descendants  (or  a place  whose  for- 
mer inhabitants)  to  the  number  of  112  returned  from 
the  Babylonian  captivity  (Ezra  ii,  18) ; called  Hariph 
in  the  parallel  passage  (Neh.  vii,  24).  “In  Ezra  two 
of  De  Rossi’s  MSS.,  and  originally  one  of  Kennieott’s, 
had  rTVP,  i.  e.  Jodah,  which  is  the  reading  of  the  Syriac 
and  Arabic  versions.  One  of  Kennicott’s  MSS.  had  the 
original  reading  in  Ezra  altered  to  i.  e.  Joram; 

and  two  in  Nehemiah  read  i.  e.  Ilarim,  which 

corresponds  with  'Aptly  of  the  Alexandrian  MS.,  and 
Churom  of  the  Syriac.  In  any  case,  the  change  or  con- 
fusion of  letters  which  might  have  caused  the  variation 
of  the  name  is  so  slight  that  it  is  difficult  to  pronounce 
which  is  the  true  form,  the  corruption  of  Jorah  into 
llariph  being  as  easily  conceivable  as  the  reverse.  Bur- 
lington (Gemal.  ii,  75)  decides  in  favor  of  the  latter,  but 
from  a comparison  of  both  passages  with  Ezra  x,  31  we 
should  be  inclined  to  regard  Harim  (C“H)  as  the  true 
reading  in  all  cases.  But,  on  any  supposition,  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  account  for  the  form  Azephurith.  or,  more  prop- 
erly, 'ApoapovpiS,  in  1 Esdr.  v,  16,  which  Bnrrington 
considers  as  having  originated  in  a corruption  of  the  two 
readings  in  Ezra  and  Nehemiah,  the  second  syllable 
arising  from  an  error  of  the  transcriber  in  mistaking  the 
uncial  E for  2”  (Smith). 

Jo'rai  (Heb.  Yoray',  ‘HY',  peril,  i.  q.  Jorah;  Sept. 
TuiptfjYulg.  Jorai),  the  fourth  name  of  the  seven  chief- 
tains of  the  Gadites  other  than  those  resident  in  Bashan 
(i  Chron.  v,  13).  B.C.  peril,  cir.  782.  “Four  of  Ken- 
nicott’s MSS.,  and  the  printed  copy  used  by  Luther, 
read  "HY’,  1.  e.  Jodai”  (Smith). 

Jo'ram  (lleb.  ClY ; Sept.  T iopdy),  prop,  a short- 
ened form  of  the  name  Jeiioram  (q.  v.),  for  which  it  is 
indifferently  used  in  the  Heb.,  and  arbitrarily  in  the  A. 
V.,  as  the  following  classification  shows : a.  The  king 
of  Zobah  (2  Sam.  viii,  10;  Sept.  'ItcSovpdy  ; elsewhere 
called  Hauoram).  b.  The  king  of  Judah  (2  Kings  viii, 
21,  23,  2 4;  xi,  2;  I Chron.  iii,  11 ; elsewhere  Jehoram). 
r.  The  king  of  Israel  (2  Kings  viii,  16,  25,  28  f twice], 
29  [twice];  ix,  14  [twice],  15,  16  [twice],  29;  incor- 
rectly for  Jehoram,  2 Kings  ix,  17,  21  [twice],  22,  23; 
elsewhere  correctly  so),  d.  The  Levite  (1  Chron.  xxvi, 
25,  C“"*).  e.  By  error  for  Jozabad  (1  Esdr.  i,  9). 

Jor'dan  (lleb.FHrJc-w',  ■jU'?!;,  always  with  the  arti- 
cle 4 'Iop$ui  7)g),  the  chief  and  most  celebrated 

river  of  Palestine,  flowing  through  a deep  valley  down 
the  centre  of  the  country  from  north  to  south.  In  the 
following  account  we  largely  cite  from  Kitto’s  Cyclo- 
pedia and  Smith’s  Dictionary  of  the  Bible,  s.  v.  See 
River. 


JORDAN 


1005  JORDAN 


1.  The  Name. — This  signifies  descender,  from  the  root 
“ to  descend” — a name  most  applicable  to  it,  wheth- 
er we  consider  the  rapidity  of  its  current,  or  the  great 
depth  of  the  valley  through  which  it  runs.  From  what- 
ever part  of  the  country  its  banks  are  approached,  the 
descent  is  long  and  steep.  That  this  is  the  true  ety- 
mology of  the  word  seems  evident  from  an  incidental 
remark  in  Josh,  iii,  16,  where,  in  describing  the  effect 
of  the  opening  of  a passage  for  the  Israelites,  the  word 
used  for  the  “coming  down”  of  the  waters  (D^Elll 

is  almost  the  same  as  the  name  of  the  river 
(see  Stanley,  S.  and  P.  p.  279,  note).  Other  derivations 
have  been  given.  Some  say  it  is  compounded  of  “iX"1, 
a river,  and  *^,  the  name  of  the  city  where  it  rises,  but 
this  etymology  is  impossible  (Iieland,  Paliest.  p.  271), 
Another  view  is,  that  the  river  having  two  sources,  the 
name  of  the  one  was  Jor,  and  of  the  other  Dan;  hence 
the  united  stream  is  called  Jordan.  So  Jerome  {Comm, 
in  Matt,  xvi,  13).  This  theory  has  been  copied  by 
Adamnanus  {De  Loc.  Sanct.  ii,  19),  William  of  Tyre 
(xiii,  18),  Brocardus  (p.  3),  Adrichomius  (p.  109),  and 
others;  and  the  etymology  seems  to  have  spread  among 
the  Christians  in  Palestine,  from  whom  Burckhardt 
heard  it  ( Travels  in  Syria,  p.  42, 43 ; see  Robinson,  Bib. 
Pes.  iii,  412,  note).  Arab  geographers  call  the  river 
either  El-Unlon,  which  is  equivalent  to  the  Hebrew,  or 
Esh-sheriali,  which  signifies  “the  watering-place;”  and 
this  latter  is  the  name  almost  universally  given  to  it  by 
the  modern  Syrians,  who  sometimes  attach  the  appella- 
tive el-Kebir,  “ the  great,”  by  way  of  distinction  from 
the  Sheriat  el-Mandlmr,  or  Ilieromax. 

2.  Sources. — The  snows  that  deeply  cover  Hermon 
during  the  whole  w inter,  and  that  still  cap  its  glittering 
summit  during  the  hottest  days  of  summer,  are  the  real 
springs  of  the  Jordan.  They  feed  its  perennial  foun- 
tains, and  they  supply  from  a thousand  channels  those 
superabundant  waters  which  make  the  river  “overflow' 
all  its  hanks  in  harvest  time”  (Josh,  iii,  15).  The  Jor- 
dan has  two  historical  sources,  a.  In  the  midst  of  a 
rich  but  marshy  plain,  lying  between  the  southern  pro- 
longation of  Hermon  and  the  mountains  of  Naphtali,  is 
a low  cup-shaped  hill,  thickly  covered  with  shrubs.  On 
it  once  stood  l)an,  the  northern  bordcr-citv  of  Palestine ; 
and  from  its  western  base  gushes  forth  the  great  foun- 
tain of  the  Jordan.  The  waters  at  once  form  a large 
pond  encircled  with  rank  grass  and  jungle — now  the 
home  of  the  wild  boar — and  then  flow  off  southward. 
'Within  the  rim  of  the  cup,  beneath  the  spreading 
branches  of  a gigantic  oak,  is  a smaller  spring.  It  is 
fed,  doubtless,  by  the  same  source,  and  its  stream,  break- 
ing through  the  rim,  joins  its  sister,  and  forms  a river 
some  forty  feet  wide,  deep  and  rapid.  The  modern 
name  of  the  hill  is  Tell  el-Kady,  “the  hill  of  the  judge 
and  both  fountain  and  river  are  called  Leddan — evi- 
dently the  name  Dan  corrupted  by  a double  article,  El- 
ed-Dan  (Robinson,  Bib.  Res.  iii,  394 ; Thomson,  Land 
and  Book,  p.  214;  and  in  Bibliotheca  Sac.  1846,  p.  196). 
Josephus  calls  this  stream  “Little  Jordan”  {tou  puepcv 
’lopdeivtiv,  War,  iv,  1,1;  comp.  A lit.  i,  10, 1 ; viii,  8, 4) ; 
but  it  is  the  principal  source  of  the  river,  and  the  largest 
fountain  in  .Syria. 

b.  Four  miles  east  of  Tell  el-Kady,  on  a lower  terrace 
of  Hermon,  amid  forests  of  oak,  lie  the  ruins  of  Banias, 
the  ancient  Ceesarea-Pliilippi,  and  more  ancient  Panium. 
Beside  the  ruins  is  a lofty  cliff  of  red  limestone,  having 
a large  fountain  at  its  base.  Beneath  the  cliff  there 
■was  former!}',  as  Josephus  tells  us,  a gloomy  cave,  and 
within  it  a yawning  abyss  of  unfathomable  depth,  filled 
with  wTater.  This  was  the  other  source  of  the  Jordan 
(B«?-,i,21,3;  comp.  A nt.  xv,  10,  3;  Pliny,  v,  12;  Mish- 
na,  Para,  viii,  12).  A temple  was  erected  over  the  cave 
by  Herod,  and  its  ruins  now  fill  it  and  conceal  the  foun- 
tain. From  it  a foaming  torrent  still  bursts,  and  dashes 
down  to  the  plain  through  a narrow'  rocky  ravine,  and 
then  glides  swiftly  on  till  it  joins  the  other  about  four 


miles  south  of  Tell  el-Kady  (Robinson,  iii,  397 ; Porter, 
Handbook,  p.  446). 

c.  The  Jordan  has  also  a fabled  fountain,  thus  de- 
scribed by  Josephus : “ Apparently  Panium  is  the  source 
of  the  Jordan,  but  the  water  is,  in  reality,  conveyed 
thither  unseen  by  a subterranean  channel  from  Phiala, 
as  it  is  called,  which  lies  not  far  from  the  high  road,  on 
the  right  as  you  ascend  to  Trachonitis,  at  the  distance 
of  120  stadia  from  Cwsarea.  . . . That  the  Jordan  hence 
derived  its  origin  was  formerly  unknown,  until  it  was 
ascertained  by  Philip,  tetrarch  of  Trachonitis,  who,  hav- 
ing thrown  chaff  into  Phiala,  found  it  cast  out  at  Palli- 
um” {War,  iii.  10,  7).  The  lake  here  referred  to  ap- 
pears to  be  Burket  eiyRam,  which  Robinson  visited  and 
described  (Bib.  Res.  iii,  399).  The  legend  has  no  foun- 
dation in  reality. 

d.  Other  fountains  in  this  region,  though  unnamed 
in  history,  contribute  much  to  the  Jordan.  The  chief 
of  these,  and  the  highest  perennial  source  of  the  Jor- 
dan, is  in  the  bottom  of  a valley  at  the  western  base  of 
Hermon,  a short  distance  from  the  towrn  of  Hasbeiya, 
and  twelve  miles  north  of  Tell  el-Ivady.  The  fountain 
is  in  a pool  at  the  foot  of  a basalt  cliff';  the  stream  from 
it, called  Hasbfiny  (from  Hasbeiya), flows  through  a nar- 
row glen  into  the  plain,  and  falls  into  the  main  stream 
about  a mile  south  of  the  junction  of  the  Leddan  and 
Baniasy.  The  relative  size  of  the  three  streams  Rob- 
inson thus  estimates:  “That  from  Banias  is  twice  as 
large  as  the  Hasbany,  while  the  Leddan  is  twice,  if  not 
three  times  the  size  of  that  from  Banias”  (Bib.  Res.  iii, 
395).  The  united  river  flows  southward  through  the 
marshy  plain  for  six  miles,  and  then  falls  into  Lake  Ilu- 
leh,  called  in  Scripture  “ The  Waters  of  Merom.”  See 
Mekom. 

e.  Besides  these,  a considerable  stream  comes  down 
from  the  plain  of  Ijon,  west  of  the  Hasbany;  and  two 
large  fountains  (called  Balat  and  Mellahah)  burst  forth 
from  the  base  of  the  mountain-chain  of  Naphtali  (Por- 
ter, Handbook  for  S.  and  P.  p.  436). 

3.  Physical  Features  of  the  Jordan  and  its  Valley. — 
The  most  remarkable  feature  of  the  Jordan  is,  that 
throughout  nearly  its  entire  course  it  is  below  the  level 
of  the  sea.  Its  valley  is  thus  like  a huge  fissure  in  the 
earth’s  crust.  The  following  measurements,  taken  from 
Van  de  Velde’s  Memoir  accompanying  his  Map,  will 
give  the  best  idea  of  the  depression  of  this  singular  val- 
ley: 

Fountain  of  Jordan  at  Hasbeiya. . . 1700  ft.  elevation. 

“ “ Banias' 1147  “ 

“ “ Dan C47  “ 

Lake  Hideh about  120  “ 

Lake  of  Tiberias 050  ft.  depression. 

Dead  Sea 1312 

There  may  be  some  error  in  the  elevations  of  the  foun- 
tains as  here  given.  Lake  Huleh  is  encompassed  by  a 
great  plain,  extending  to  Dan ; and  as  it  appears  to  the 
eye  almost  level,  it  is  difficult  to  believe  that  there  could 
be  a difference  of  500  feet  in  the  elevations  of  the  foun- 
tain and  the  lake.  Porter  estimated  it  on  the  spot  at 
not  above  100  feet ; but  it  is  worthy  of  note  that  Von 
Wiltlenbruch  makes  it  by  measurement  537  feet,  and 
De  Bertou  344. 

The  general  course  of  the  Jordan  is  due  south.  From 
their  fountains  the  three  streams  flow  south  to  the 
points  of  junction,  and  continue  in  the  same  direction 
to  the  Hideh;  and  from  the  southern  extremity  of  this 
lake  the  Jordan  again  issues  and  resumes  its  old  course. 
For  some  two  miles  its  banks  are  flat,  and  its  current 
not  very  rapid  ; but  on  passing  through  Jisr  Ben  tit  Ya- 
kub (“the  Bridge  of  Jacob’s  Daughters”),  the  banks  sud- 
denly contrac  t and  rise  high  on  each  side,  and  the  river 
dashes  in  sheets  of  foam  over  a rock}r  bed,  rebounding 
from  cliff  to  cliff  in  its  mad  career.  Here  and  there  the 
retreating  banks  have  a little  green  meadow,  with  its 
fringe  of  oleanders  all  wet  and  glistening  with  spray. 
Thus  it  rushes  on,  often  winding,  occasionally  doubling 
back  like  the  coils  of  a serpent,  till,  breaking  from  rocky 
barriers,  it  enters  the  rich  plain. of  Batihah,  where  on 


JORDAN 


1006 


JORDAN 


the  left  bank  stand  the  ruins  of  Bethsnida  (q.  v.).  The 
stream  now  expands,  and  glides  lazily  along  till  it  falls 
on  the  still  bosom  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee.  Between  Betli- 
saida  and  the  sea  the  Jordan  averages  about  twenty 
yards  in  width,  and  Hows  sluggishly  between  low  allu- 
vial banks.  Bars  of  sand  extend  across  its  channel  here 
and  there,  at  which  it  is  easily  forded  (Porter,  Hand- 
book, p.  4:2(1 ; Robinson,  ii,  414  sq.;  Burckhardt,  Syria,  p. 
31a).  From  Jisr  Benat  Yakub  the  distance  is  only  seven 
miles,  and  yet  in  that  distance  the  river  falls  700  feet. 
The  total  length  of  the  section  between  the  two  lakes 
is  about  eleven  miles  as  the  crow  flies. 

An  old  tradition  tells  us  that  the  Jordan  flows  direct 
through  the  Sea  of  Galilee  without  mingling  with  its 
waters.  The  origin  of  the  story  may  be  the  fact  that 
the  river  enters  the  lake  at  the  northern  extremity,  and 
leaves  it  at  a point  exactly  opposite  at.  the  southern, 
without  apparent  increase  or  diminution. 

The  third  section  of  the  river,  lying  between  the  Sea 
of  Galilee  and  the  Dead  Sea,  is  the  Jordan  of  Scripture, 
the  other  two  sections  not  being  directly  mentioned 
either  in  the  O.  T.  or  N.  T.  Until  the  last  few  years 
little  was  known  of  it.  The  notices  of  ancient  geogra- 
phers are  not  full.  Travellers  had  crossed  it  at  several 
points,  but  all  the  portions  between  these  points  were 
unknown.  When  the  remarkable  depression  of  the 
Dead  Sea  was  ascertained  by  trigonometrical  measure- 
ment, and  when  it  was  shown  that  the  Jordan  must 
have  a fall  of  1400  feet  in  its  short  course  of  about  100 
miles,  the  measurements  were  called  in  question  by  that 
distinguished  geographer  Dr.  Robinson,  in  a paper  read 
before  the  Royal  Geographical  .Society  in  1847  (Journal. 
vol.  xvlii,  part  ii).  In  that  same  year  lieutenant  Moly- 
neux,  R.X.,  conveyed  a boat  from  the  Sea  of  Galilee  to 
the  Dead  Sea,  mostly  in  the  river,  but  in  places  on  the 
backs  ol  camels,  where  rocks  and  rapids  prevented  nav- 
igation. Owing  to  the  hostility  of  the  Arabs  the  ex- 
pedition was  not  successful,  and  the  Jordan  was  not 
yet  explored.  Lieutenant  Lynch,  of  the  United  States 
Navv,  headed  a much  more  successful  expedition  in 
1*1*,  and  was  the  first  fully  to  describe  the  course,  and 
fully  to  solve  the  mysteries  of  the  Jordan.  His  Official 
Report  is  the  standard  work  on  the  river.  Molyneux’s 
paper  in  the  Journal  oj  the  Royal  Geog.  Society  also  con- 
tains some  useful  matter  (vol.  xviii,  part  ii). 

The  valley  through  which  this  section  of  the  Jordan 
flows  is  a long,  low  plain,  running  from  north  to  south, 
and  shut  in  by  steep  and  rugged  parallel  ridges,  the 
eastern  ridge  rising  fully  500u'  feet  above  the  river’s 
bed,  and  the  western  about  3000.  This  plain  is  the 
great  plain  of  the  later  Jews;  the  great  desert  (iro\\i)v 
imtptuv)  of  Josephus;  the  Aulon  or  “channel”  of  the 
Greek  geographers;  the  “region  of  Jordan”  of  the  N.T. 
(Matt,  iii,  5;  Luke  iii,  3);  and  the  Ghor  or  “sunken 
plain”  of  the  modern  Arabs  (Stanley,  p.  277;  Josephus, 
IVar,  iii,  9,  7 ; iv,  8,  2;  Relaud,  I'akest.  p.  305,  361,  377 
wp).  It  is  about  six  miles  wide  at  its  northern  end,  but 
it  gradually  expands  until  it  attains  a width  of  upwards 
ol  twelve  at  Jericho.  Its  sides  are  not  straight  lines, 
nor  is  its  surface  perfectly  level.  The  mountains  on 
each  side  here  and  there  send  out  rocky  spurs,  and  long, 
low  roots  far  into  it.  Winter  torrents,  descending  from 
wdd  ravines,  cut  deeply  through  its  soft  strata/  As  a 
Avhole  it  is  now  a desert.  In  its  northern  division,  above 
the  lords  of  Succoth,  small  portions  are  cultivated  around 
fountains,  and  along  the  banks  of  streamlets,  where  irri- 
gation IS  easy ; but  all  the  rest  is  a wilderness— in  spring 
covered  with  rank  grass  and  thistles,  but  in  summer 
parched  and  bare.  The  southern  section— known  as 
the  “ plain  of  Jericho" — is  different  in  aspect.  Its  sur- 
face m covered  with  a white  nitrous  crust,  like  hoar- 
frost, through  which  not  a blade  of  grass  or  green  herb 
springs.  Nothing  could  be  imagined  more  dreary  or 
desolate  than  this  part  of  the  plain. 

Down  the  midst  of  the  plain  winds  a ravine,  varying 
from  200  yards  to  half  a mile  in  breadth,  and  from  40  to 
lot)  feet  m depth.  Through  this  the  Jordan  flows  in 


a tortuous  course,  now  sweeping  the  western,  and  now 
the  eastern  bank ; now  making  a wide,  graceful  curve, 
and  now  doubling  back,  but  everywhere  fringed  by  a 
narrow,  dense  border  of  trees  and  shrubs.  The  river 
has  thus  two  distinct  lines  of  banks.  The  first  or  lower 
banks  confine  the  stream,  and  are  from  five  to  ten  feet 
high,  the  height  of  course  decreasing  in  spring  when 
the  river  is  high ; the  second  or  upper  are  at  some  dis- 
tance from  the  channel,  and  in  places  rise  to  a height 
of  150  feet.  The  scenery  of  the  river  is  peculiar  and 
striking.  Lynch  thus  describes  the  upper  section : 
“The  high  alluvial  terraces  on  each  side  were  every- 
where shaped  by  the  action  of  the  winter  rains  into 
numbers  of  conical  hills,  some  of  them  pyramidal  and 
cuneiform,  presenting  the  appearance  of  a giant  en- 
campment. This  singular  conformation  extended  south- 
wards as  far  as  the  eye  could  reach.  At  intervals  I 
caught  a glimpse  of  the  river  in  its  graceful  meander- 
ings,  sometimes  glittering  like  a spear-head  through  an 
opening  in  the  foliage,  and  again  clasping  some  little 
island  in  its  shining  arms,  or,  far  away,  snapping  with 
the  fierceness  and  white  foam  of  a torrent  by  some  pro- 
jecting point.  . . . The  banks  were  fringed  with  the 
| laurnstinus,  the  oleander,  the  willow,  and  the  tamarisk, 
and  further  inland,  on  the  slope  of  the  second  terrace, 

I grew  a small  species  of  oak,  and  the  cedar.” 

The  Jordan  issues  from  the  Sea  of  Galilee  close  to  the 
hills  on  the  western  side  of  the  plain,  and  sweeps  round 
a little  peninsula,  on  which  lie  the  ruins  of  Tariclisea 
(Porter,  Handh.  p.  321 ; Robinson,  i,  538).  The  stream 
is  about  100  feet  wide,  and  the  current  strong  (Lynch). 
A short  distance  down  are  the  remains  of  a Roman 
bridge,  whose  fallen  arches  greatly  obstruct  the  river, 
and  make  it  dash  through  in  sheets  of  foam.  Below 
this  are  several  weirs,  constructed  of  rough  stones,  and 
intended  to  raise  the  water  and  turn  it  into  canals,  so  as 
to  irrigate  the  neighboring  plain  (Molyneux).  Five 
miles  from  the  lake  the  Jordan  receives  its  largest  trib- 
utary, the  Sheriat  el-Mandliur  (the  Hieromax  of  the 
Greeks),  which  drains  a large  section  of  Bashan  and 
Gilead.  This  stream  is  130  feet  wide  at  its  mouth. 
Two  miles  further  is  Jisr  el-Mejamia,  the  only  bridge 
now  standing  on  the  Lower  Jordan.  It  is  a quaint 
structure,  one  large  pointed  arch  spanning  the  stream, 
and  double  tiers  of  smaller  arches  supporting  the  road- 
way on  each  side.  The  river  is  here  deep  and  impetu- 
ous, breaking  over  high  ledges  of  rocks. 

Below  this  point  the  ravine  inclines  eastwards  to  the 
centre  of  the  plain,  and  its  banks  contract.  Its  sides 
are  bare  and  white,  and  the  chalky  strata  are  deeply 
furrowed.  The  margin  of  the  river  has  still  its  beauti- 
ful fringe  of  foliage,  and  the  little  islets  which  occur 
here  and  there  are  covered  with  shrubbery.  Fifteen 
miles  south  of  the  bridge,  wady  Yabes  (so  called  from 
Jabesh-gilead),  containing  a winter  torrent,  falls  in  from 
the  east.  A short  distance  above  it  a barren  sandy  isl- 
and divides  the  channel,  and  with  its  bars  on  each  side 
forms  a ford,  probably  the  one  by  which  Jacob  crossed, 
as  the  site  of  Succoth  has  been  identified  on  the  western 
bank.  The  plain  round  Succoth  is  extensively  cidti- 
vated,  and  abundantly  watered  by  fountains  and  stream- 
lets from  the  adjoining  mountains.  The  richness  of  the 
soil  is  wonderful.  Dr.  Robinson  says,  “ The  grass,  in- 
termingled with  tall  daisies  and  wild  oats,  reached  to 
our  horses’  backs,  while  the  thistles  sometimes  over- 
topped the  riders’  heads.  All  was  now  dry,  and  in  some 
places  it  was  difficult  to  make  our  way  through  this  ex- 
uberant growth”  (iii,  p.  313).  Jacob  exercised  a wise 
choice  when  “ he  made  booths  for  his  cattle”  at  this  fa- 
vored spot  (Gen.  xxxiii,  17).  No  other  place  in  the 
great  plain  equals  it  in  richness.  The  ravine  of  the 
Jordan  is  here  150  feet  below  the  plain,  and  shut  in  by 
steep,  bare  banks  of  chalky  strata  (Robinson,  l.  c.  p.  31 0). 

About  nine  miles  below  Succoth,  and  about  half  way 
between  the  lakes,  the  Jabbok,  the  only  other  consider- 
able tributary,  falls  into  the  Jordan,  coining  down 
through  a deep,  wild  glen  in  the  mountains  of  Gilead. 


JORDAN" 


1007 


JORDAN 


When  Lynch  passed  (April  17)  it  was  “a  small  stream 
trickling  down  a deep  and  wide  torrent  bed.  . . . There 
was  another  bed,  quite  dry,  showing  that  in  times  of 
freshet  there  were  two  outlets.”  Lynch  gives  some 
good  pictures  of  the  seenery  above  the  junetion.  “ The 
plain  that  sloped  away  from  the  bases  of  the  hills  was 
broken  into  ridges  and  multitudinous  cone-like  mounds. 
...  A low,  pale  yellow  ridge  of  eonieal  hills  marked 
the  termination  of  the  higher  terrace,  beneath  which 
swept  gently  this  low  plain,  with  a similar  undulating 
surface,  half  redeemed  from  barrenness  by  sparse  ver- 
dure and  thistle-eovered  hillocks.  Still  lower  was  the 
valley  of  the  Jordan — its  banks  fringed  with  perpetual 
verdure — winding  a thousand  graceful  mazes  ...  its 
course  a bright  line  in  this  cheerless  waste.” 

Below  the  Jabbok  the  fall  of  the  river  is  still  greater 
than  above,  but  there  is  less  obstruction  from  rocks  and 
cliffs.  The  jungles  along  the  banks  beeome  denser,  the 
sides  of  the  river  glen  more  regular,  and  the  plain  above 
more  dreary  and  desolate. 

On  approaching  the  Dead  Sea,  the  plain  of  the  Jor- 
dan attains  its  greatest  breadth — about  twelve  miles. 
The  mountain  ranges  on  each  side  are  higher,  more 
rugged,  and  more  desolate.  The  plain  is  coated  with  a 
nitrous  crust,  like  hoar-frost,  and  not  a tree,  shrub,  or 
blade  of  grass  is  seen  exeept  by  fountains  or  rivulets. 
The  glen  winds  like  a serpent  through  the  centre,  be- 
tween two  tiers  of  banks.  The  bottom  is  smooth,  and 
sprinkled  on  the  outside  with  stunted  shrubs.  The  riv- 
er winds  in  ceaseless  coils  along  the  bottom,  now  touch- 
ing one  side  and  now  another,  with  its  beautiful  border 
of  green  foliage,  looking  all  the  greener  from  contrast 
with  the  desert  above.  The  banks  are  of  soft  clay,  in 
places  ten  feet  high : the 
stream  varies  from  80  to 
150  feet  in  breadth,  and 
from  five  to  twelve  in 
depth.  Near  its  mouth 
the  current  becomes 
more  sluggish,  and  the 
stream  expands.  Where 
wady  Hesban  falls  in, 

Lynch  found  the  river 
150  feet  wide  and  1 1 deep, 

“ the  current  four  knots.” 

Further  down  the  banks 
are  low  and  sedgy ; the 
width  gradually  in- 
creases to  180  yards  at 
its  mouth,  but  the  depth 
is  only  three  feet  (Lyneh, 

Official  Report;  Robin- 
son,  i,  538  sq. ; Stanley, 

p.  200). 

Lynch  in  a few  words 
explains  the  secret  of  the 
great  and  almost  incredible  fall  in  the  Jordan.  “The 


great  secret  is  solved  by  the  tortuous  course  of  the  Jor- 
dan. In  a space  of  00  miles  of  latitude,  and  four  or  five 
of  longitude,  the  Jordan  traverses  at  least  200  miles.  . . . 
We  have  plunged  down^twenty-seven  threatening  rap- 
ids, besides  a great  many  of  lesser  magnitude.” 

Dr.  Robinson  ( Researches , ii,  257  sq.)  describes  the 
banks  as  consisting  of  three  series,  with  terraces  be- 
tween, the  outer  ones  composed  of  the  mountains  bor- 
dering the  river,  the  middle  ones  being  the  true  banks, 
and  the  third  the  proper  channel  of  the  stream ; and  he 
argues  that  the  scriptural  allusions  to  the  overflow  of 
the  Jordan  at  harvest  (Josh,  iii,  15;  1 Chron.  xii,  15; 
compare  Jer.  xii,  5 ; xlix,  19;  1,44;  Zech.  xi,  3;  Siraeh 
xxiv,  26, 36)  simply  refer  to  the  full  stream,  or  at  most 
to  its  expansion  as  far  as  to  the  middle  one  of  these 
three  banks,  at  the  time  of  the  annual  melting  of  snows 
on  Lebanon  and  Hermon,  rather  than  to  any  true  fresh- 
et or  inundation.  The  river  in  this  respect  probably 
resembles  other  mountain  streams,  which  have  an  over- 
flow of  their  secondary  boundaries  or  alluvial  “bottoms” 
during  the  spring  and  early  summer  months.  Comp. 
Thomson,  Land  and  Book , ii,  452  sq. 

4.  The  Fords  of  the  Jordan  have  always  been  impor- 
tant in  connection  with  the  history  of  the  country.  The 
three  streams  which  flow  from  the  fountains  are  forda- 
1 ble  at  almost  every  point.  It  is  south  of  Lake  II  ill  eh 
, that  the  river  begins  to  form  a serious  barrier.  The 
| bridge  called  Jisr  Benat  Yakub  has  for  centuries  been 
\ the  leading  pass  from  western  Palestine  to  Damascus. 

I The  first  reference  to  it  is  in  A.D.  1450  (in  Gumpenberg’s 
day;  see  Robinson,  Researches,  iii,  362),  though  as  early 
as  the  Crusades  a “ Ford  of  Jacob”  ( Vadum  Jacob,  Will, 
i Tyr.  Hist,  xviii,  13)  is  mentioned,  and  was  reckoned  a 


Terraces  of  the  Jordan.  (From  Photograph  231  ot  the 
“Palestine Exploration  Fund.”) 


Upper  Ford  of  the  Jordan,  near  Bethshan.  (From  Van  de  Velde.) 

most  important  pass.  The  bridge  was  probably  built 
during  the  15th  century,  when  the  caravan  road  was 
constructed  from  Damascus  to  Egypt  (Porter.  Hand- 
book, ii,  466).  The  origin  of  the  name,  “Bridge  of  Ja- 
cob’s Daughters,”  is  unknown.  Perhaps  this  place  may 
have  been  confounded  with  the  ford  of  Succoth,  where 
the  patriareli  crossed  the  Jordan,  or  perhaps  the  “ Ja- 
cob” referred  to  was  some  Moslem  saint  or  Turkish 
pasha  (Ritter,  Pal.  vnd  Syr.  p.  269  sq.).  See  B judge. 

Between  Bethsaida-Julias  and  the  Sea  of  Galilee  there 
are  several  fords.  The  river  is  there  shallow  and  the 
current  sluggish.  At  this  place  the  multitudes  that  fol- 
lowed our  Lord  from  Capernaum  and  the  neighborhood 
were  able  to  cross  the  river  to  where  he  fed  the  5000 
(Mark  vi,  32  sq. ; Robinson,  ii,  414). 

The  first  ford  on  the  southern  section  of  the  Jordan 
is  about  half  a mile  from  the  lake,  where  the  ruins  of 
the  Roman  bridge  now  lie.  It  was  the  means  of  com- 
munication between  Tiberias  and  Gadara,  and  it  was 
doubtless  at  tins  point  our  Lord  crossed  when  he  went 
from  Galilee  to  Judaia  “by  the  farther  side  of  Jordan 


100S 


JORDAN 


JORDAN 

(Mark  x,  1 ; Matt,  xix,  1,2).  Jisr  el-Mejamia  is  a Sar- 
acenic bridge  on  an  old  caravan  route  from  Damascus 
to  Egypt.  Probably  a Human  bridge  may  have  stood 
at  the  same  place,  connecting  Scvthopolis  with  the  oth- 
er cities  of  Dceapolis.  There  is  no  ford  here.  At  a 
point  east  of  the  ruins  of  Scvthopolis,  ten  miies  below 
the  bridge,  the  river  is  now  fordable,  but  the  passage  is 
deep  and  dangerous  (Robinson,  iii,  325;  Van  de  Velde, 
Memoir,  p.  137). 

At  Suecoth  is  one  of  the  best  and  most  important 
fords  over  the  Jordan.  Here  Jacob  crossed  with  his 
cattle.  This,  too,  is  possibly  the  Betlibarali,  “ house,  or  I 
ford  of  passage,”  where  the  Israelites  intercepted  the 
routed  Midianites  (Judg.  vii,  24),  and  it  was  probably 
here  that  the  men  of  Gilead  slew  the  Epliraimites  (xii, 
0).  Not  far  off,  in  “ the  clay  ground  between  Suecoth 
and  Zarthan,”  were  the  brass  foundries  of  king  Solomon 
(1  Kings  vii,  4G).  These  fords  undoubtedly  witnessed 
the  first  recorded  passage  of  the  Jordan  in  the  O.  T. ; 
we  say  recorded,  because  there  can  be  little  dispute  but 
that  Abraham  must  have  crossed  it  likewise.  It  is  still 
the  place  at  which  the  eastern  Bedawin  cross  in  their 
periodical  invasions  of  Esdraclon.  Prom  Suecoth  to  the 
mouth  of  the  Jabbok  the  river  becomes  very  low  during 
the  summer,  and  is  fordable  at  many  points.  At  one  i 
spot  are  the  remains  of  a Roman  bridge  (Molyneux,  p. 
115  sq. ; Lynch,  April  16;  Burckhardt,  p.344  sq.).  Ten 
miles  south  of  the  Jabbok  there  is  a noted  ford  on  the 
road  from  Nalndus  to  Es-Salt.  Traces  of  a Roman  road 
and  bridge  were  here  discovered  by  Van  de  Velde  (Me- 
moir, p.  124).  The  only  other  fords  of  note  are  those  | 
in  the  plain  of  Jericho,  one  above  and  one  below  the  i 
pilgrims’  bathing-place.  They  are  much  deeper  than 
those  higher  up,  and  wheti  the  river  is  swollen  they  be- 
come impassable. 


Lower  Ford  of  the  Jordan  at  Wady  Nawaimeh.  (From 
Photograph  293  of  the  “ Palestine  Exploration  Fund.”) 


5.  Historical  Xotices. — The  first  notice  of  the  Jordar 
is  in  the  story  of  the  separation  of  Abraham  and  Lot- 
Lot  “ beheld  all  the  plain  of  Jordan,  that  it  was  wel 
watered  everywhere,  before  the  Lord  destroyed  Sodon 
and  < lomorrah”  (( Ion.  xiii,  10).  Abraham  had  just  lefi 
Egypt  (xii,  10-20),  and  therefore  the  comparison  be- 
tween the  fertilizing  properties  of  the  Jordan  ami  of  th< 
Nile  is  very  apposite.  The  section  of  the  valley  visibh 
from  the  heights  of  Bethel,  where  the  patriarchs  stood 
was  the  plain  of  Jericho  ami  southward  over  a part  of 
the  1 lead  Sea.  The  “ plain”  or  circle  (~Z2)  of  the  Jor- 
dan  must  have  been  different  then  from  what  it  is  now 
It  is  now  a parched  desert— then  it  was  well  watered  ev- 
en w lu  re.  1 he  waters  of  numerous  springs,  niotmtair 
torrents,  and  probably  of  the  Jordan,  raised  by  weir< 
such  as  are  seen  at  its  northern  end.  were  used  by  tin 
old  1 hcemcian  inhabitants  in  the  irrigation  of  the  vast 
plain.  1 he  curse  had  not  yet  come  upon  it ; the  fin 
of  heaven  had  not  yet  passed  over  it ; the  l/ml  had  no! 
jet  destroyed  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  (Stanlev  p 215) 
It  is  manifest  that  some  great  physical  change  was  pro- 
dueed  in  the  valley  by  the  convulsion  at  the  destruetior 


of  the  cities.  The  bed  of  the  Dead  Sea  was  probably 
lowered,  and  a greater  fall  thus  given  to  the  river.  See 
Dead  Sea. 

Another  wonderful  epoch  in  the  Jordan’s  history  was 
the  passage  of  the  Israelites.  They  were  encamped  on 
the  “plains  of  Moab” — on  the  broad  plain  east  of  the 
river,  extending  along  the  northern  shore  of  the  sea  to 
the  foot  of  the  mountains.  It  was  harvest-time — the 
beginning  of  April — when  the  rains  were  still  falling 
heavily  in  Hermon,  and  the  winter  snows  were  melting 
under  the  rays  of  the  warm  sun,  and  when  a thousand 
mountain  torrents  thus  fed  swept  into  the  Jordan,  and 
made  it  “ overflow  all  its  banks or,  as  the  Hebrew  lit- 
erally signifies,  made  it  full  up  to  all  its  banks  (sec  Rob- 
inson, Bib.  Res.  i,  540) ; that  is,  perhaps,  up  not  merely 
to  the  banks  of  the  stream  itself,  but  up  to  the  banks  of 
the  glen ; covering,  as  it  still  does  in  a few  places  (Moly- 
neux, p.  116;  Van  de  Velde,  Memoir,  p.  125),  the  whole 
bottom  of  the  glen,  and  thus  rendering  the  fords  impas- 
sable for  such  a host  as  the  Israelites.  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  in  ancient  times  the  Jordan  rose  higher  than 
it  does  now.  When  the  country  was  more  thickly  wood- 
ed and  more  extensively  cultivated,  more  rain  and  more 
snow  must  have  fallen  (Van  de  Velde,  Xarrutire,  ii,  272). 
There  are  wet  seasons  even  yet,  when  the  river  rises 
several  feet  more  than  ordinarily  (Ileland,  p.  273;  Rau- 
mer,  Paldst.  p.  61, 2d  ed.).  The  opening  of  a passage 
through  the  river  at  such  a season  was  the  greater  mir- 
acle. Had  it  been  late  in  summer  it  might  have  been 
thought  that  natural  causes  operated,  but  in  harvest — 
the  time  of  the  overflow — the  finger  of  God  must  have 
been  manifest  to  all.  It  is  a remarkable  fact  that  at 
this  same  spot  the  Jordan  was  afterwards  twice  miracu- 
lously opened — by  Elijah  and  Elisha  (2  Kings  ii,8, 14). 

At  a later  period  it  was  considered  a feat  of  high 
daring  that  a party  of  David’s  “mighty  men”  crossed 
the  Jordan  “in  the  first  month  (April),  when  it  had 
overflown  all  its  banks,”  and  subdued  tlieir  enemies  on 
the  east  side  (1  Chron.  xii,  15).  Jeremiah  speaks  of 
the  lions  “coming  up”  from  the  “swellings  of  the  Jor- 
dan;” but  the  Hebrew  word  jitfSi  signifies  beauty  or  glo- 
ry, and  refers  to  the  dense  jungles  and  verdant  foliage 
of  its  banks ; these  jungles  are  impenetrable  except  to 
the  wild  beasts  that  dwell  there.  No  allusion  is  made 
to  the  rise  or  overflow  of  the  river  (Gesenins,  Thesaurus , 
s.  v. ; Robinson,  i,  540).  Travellers  have  often  seen  wild 
swine,  liyoenas,  and  jackals,  and  also  the  tracks  of  pan- 
thers, on  the  banks  of  the  Jordan  (Molyneux,  p.  1 18). 

The  passage  of  the  river  by  king  David  in  his  flight 
from  Absalom  has  one  peculiarity  — a ferry-boat  was 
used  to  convey  his  household  over  the  channel  (2  Sam. 
xix,  18).  The  passage  was  probably  effected  at  one  of 
the  fords  in  the  plain  of  Jericho.  The  word  fT“C2 
simply  signifies  a thing  for  crossing;  it  may  have  been 
a “ boat,”  or  a “ raft,”  or  a few  inflated  skins,  such  as  are 
represented  on  the  monuments  of  Nineveh,  and  arc  still 
used  on  the  Euphrates  and  the  Jordan.  See  Eekiiy. 

Naaman’s  indignant  depreciation  of  the  Jordan,  as 
compared  with  the  “ rivers  of  Damascus,”  is  well  known. 
The  rivers  of  Damascus  water  its  great  plain;  convert- 
ing a desert  into  a paradise;  the  Jordan  rolls  on  in  its 
deep  bed,  useless,  to  the  Sea  of  Death. 

The  great  event  of  the  N.-T.  history  enacted  at  the 
Jordan  was  the  baptism  of  our  Lord.  This  has  made 
it  the  queen  of  rivers,  and  has  given  it  the  title  “sacred.” 
The  exact  spot  is  disputed.  See  Betttbaka  ; ^Exox. 
The  topography  and  the  incidents  of  the  narrative,  both 
before  and  after  the  baptism,  unquestionably  point  to 
the  same  place,  already  famous  as  the  scene  of  three 
miracles  (Porter,  Handbook,  p.  198).  In  commemora- 
tion of  the  baptism,  the  Christian  pilgrims  who  assem- 
ble at  Jerusalem  at  Easter  visit  the  Jordan  in  a body 
and  bathe  at  this  spot  (Stanley,  p.  308). 

The  references  to  the  Jordan  in  the  writings  of  Jose- 
phus contain  nothing  of  importance  beyond  what  has 
already  been  mentioned  in  connection  with  the  foun- 


JORDAN- 


1009 


JORDANUS 


tains  and  the  physical  features.  Greek  and  Roman  ge- 
ographers seem  to  have  known  but  little  of  the  river. 
Pliny  praises  its  beauty,  and  states  that,  “ with  the 
greatest  reluctance,  as  it  were,  it  moves  onward  towards 
Asphaltites,  a lake  of  gloomy  and  unpropitious  nature, 
by  which  it  is  at  last  swallowed  up”  (Hist.  Nat.  v,  15). 
Strabo  makes  the  singular  assertion  that  it  is  “ naviga- 
ted upwards  with  vessels  of  burden !”  Of  course,  he 
can  only  refer  to  the  Sea  of  Galilee  (xvi,  2, 16).  Pau- 
sanias  tells  how  strangely  the  river  disappears  in  the 
Dead  Sea  (book  v,  7,  4). 

6.  Mineral , A nimal,  and  Vegetable  Productions. — Some 
of  these  have  been  incidentally  noticed  above.  As  there 
were  slime-pits,  or  pits  of  bitumen,  and  salt-pits  (Gen. 
xi,3;  Zepli.ii,  9)  in  the  vale  of  Siddim,  on  the  extreme 
south,  so  Mr.  Thompson  speaks  of  bitumen  wells  twenty 
minutes  from  the  bridge  over  the  Hashbeiya  on  the  ex- 
treme north;  while  Ain-el  Mellahah  above  Lake  Iluleh 
is  emphatically  “ the  fountain  of  the  salt-works”  (Lynch’s 
Narrative,  p.  470).  Thermal  springs  are  frequent  about 
the  Lake  of  Tiberias;  the  most  celebrated,  below  the 
town  bearing  that  name  (Robinson,  ii,  384,  385) ; some 
near  Emmaus  (Lynch,  p.  467),  some  near  Magdala,  and 
some  not  far  from  Gadara  (Irby,  p.  90,  91).  The  hill  of 
Dan  is  said  to  be  an  extinct  crater,  and  masses  of  vol- 
canic rock  and  tufa  are  noticed  by  Lynch  not  far  from 
the  month  of  the  Yermak  ( Narrative , April  12).  Dark 
basalt  is  the  characteristic  of  the  rocks  in  the  upper 
stage ; trap,  limestone,  sandstone,  and  conglomerate  in 
the  lower.  On  the  second  day  of  the  passage  a bank 
of  fuller’s  earth  was  observed. 

How  far  the  Jordan  in  olden  time  was  ever  a zone  of 
cultivation,  like  the  Nile,  is  uncertain.  Now,  with  the 
exception  of  the  eastern  shores  of  the  Lake  Iluleh,  the 
hand  of  man  may  be  said  to  have  disappeared  from  its 
banks.  The  genuine  Arab  is  a nomad  bv  nature,  and 
contemns  agriculture.  There,  however,  Dr.  Robinson, 
in  the  month  of  May,  found  the  land  tilled  almost ‘down 
to  the  lake,  and  large  crops  of  wheat,  barley,  maize,  ses-  | 
amc,  and  rice  rewarded  the  hnsbandman.  Horses,  cat- 
tle, and  sheep — all  belonging  to  the  Ghawarinah  tribe — j 
fattened  on  the  rich  pastime;  and  large  herds  of  black 
buffaloes  luxuriated  in  the  streams  and  in  the  deep  mire  | 
of  the  marshes  (iii,  396).  These  are  doubtless  lineal 
descendants  of  the  “fat  bulls  of  Bashan;”  as  the  “oaks 
of  Bashan”  are  still  the  magnificent  staple  tree  of  those 
regions.  Cultivation  degenerates  as  we  advance  south- 
ward. Corn-fields  wave  around  Gennesaretli  on  the 
west,  and  the  palm  and  vine,  fig  and  pomegranate,  are 
still  to  be  seen  here  and  there.  Melons  grown  on  its 
shores  are  of  great  size  and  much  esteemed.  Pink  ole- 
anders, and  a rose-colored  species  of  hollyhock,  in  great 
profusion,  wait  upon  every  approach  to  a rill  or  spring. 
These  gems  of  nature  reappear  in  the  lower  course  of 
the  Jordan.  There  the  purple  thistle,  the  bright  yellow 
marigold,  and  scarlet  anemone,  saluted  the  adventurers 
of  the  New  World  : the  laurustinus  and  oleander,  cedar 
and  arbutus,  willow  and  tamarisk,  accompanied  them  on 
their  route.  As  the  climate  became  more  tropical,  and 
the  Lower  Glior  was  entered,  large  ghurrah  trees,  like 
the  aspen,  with  silver}7  foliage,  overhung  them ; and  the 
cane,  frequently  impenetrable,  and  now  in  blossom, 
“was  ever  at  the  water’s  edge.”  Only  once  during  the 
whole  voyage,  on  the  fourth  day,  were  patches  of  wheat 
and  barley  visible ; but  the  hand  that  had  sowed  them 
lived  far  away.  As  Jeremiah  in  the  O.  T.,  and  St.  Je- 
rome and  Thocas  (sec  Reland)  among  Christian  pilgrims, 
had  spoken  of  the  Jordan  as  the  resort  of  lions,  so  tracks 
of  tigers,  wild  boars,  and  the  like  presented  themselves 
from  time  to  time  to  these  explorers.  Flocks  of  wild 
ducks,  of  cranes,  of  pigeons,  and  of  swallows  were  scared 
by  their  approach;  and  a specimen  of  the  bulbul,  or 
Syrian  nightingale,  fell  into  their  hands.  The  scenery 
throughout  was  not  inspiring — it  was  of  a subdued  char- 
acter when  they  started,  profoundly  gloomy  and  drear}7 
near  ford  Sukwa,  and  then  utterly  sterile  just  before 
they  reached  Jericho.  With  the  exception  of  a few 
IV.— S s s 


Arab  tribes — so  savage  as  scarcely  to  be  considered  ex- 
ceptions— humanity  had  become  extinct  on  its  banks. 

Such,  then,  is  the  river  Jordan,  without  any  parallel, 
historical  or  physical,  in  the  whole  world.  A complete 
river  beneath  the  level  of  the  sea ! Disappearing  in  d 
lake  which  has  no  outlet,  which  could  have  none,  and 
Avhich  originated  in  a miracle ! Thrice  were  its  waters 
divided  by  the  direct  agency  of  God,  that  his  servants 
might  pass  in  safety  and  comfort.  It  is  a river  that 
has  never  been  navigable,  flowing  into  a sea  that  has 
never  known  a port  — has  never  been  a high-road  to 
more  hospitable  coasts — has  never  possessed  a fishery — 
a river  that  has  never  boasted  of  a single  town  of  emi- 
nence upon  its  banks ; in  fine,  it  is,  if  not  “ the  river  of 
God"  in  the  book  of  Psalms,  at  least  that  of  his  chosen 
people  throughout  their  history,  and,  as  such,  it  figures 
largely  in  the  poetical  symbolism  of  the  passage  from 
this  world  to  the  next. 

In  addition  to  the  works  above  cited  on  the  physical 
features  of  the  Jordan,  the  following  afford  important 
information  : Journal  of  R.  Geog.  Society,  xviii,  part  ii. 
articles  by  Robinson,  Petermann,  and  Molyneux;  Ber- 
tou,  in  Bulletin  de  la  Soc.  Uengraph.  de  Paris,  xii,  166 
sq. ; Wildenbruch,  Monatsberichte  der  Gesellschaft  fur 
Erdhxnde  zu  Berlin,  1845-46;  Capt.  Newbold,  Jour,  of 
Roy.  A siat.  Society,  xvi,  8 sq. ; Rev.  W.  Thompson,  Bibl. 
Sac.  iii,  184  sq.  A clear  summary  of  all  known  about 
the  Jordan  up  to  1850  is  given  by  Ritter,  in  Palastina 
und  Syi'ien,  ii,  152-556 ; also  in  his  separate  essay,  Der 
Jordan  uml  die  BeschiJ/ung  des  todten  Meeres  (Berlin, 
1850).  More  popular  descriptions  are  those  published 
by  the  Religious  Tract  Society  (London,  1858),  and  Nel- 
son (ib.  1854).  Most  travellers  in  Palestine  have  like- 
wise given  an  account  of  the  river,  chiefly  at  its  mouth. 
See  Palestine. 

Jordan,  Joseph,  a minister  of  the  Society  of 
Friends,  was  born  in  Nansemond  County,  Va.,  in  1695, 
and  began  preaching  about  1718,  first  in  the  States,  and 
later  in  various  parts  of  England  and  Ireland,  and  some 
portions  of  Holland.  He  died  Sept.  26,  1735.  “He  ac- 
quitted himself,”  was  the  testimony  of  the  annual  meet- 
ing of  Virginia  Quakers  in  the  year  of  his  death,  “ as  a 
workman  that  need  not  be  ashamed.”  See  Janney,  Hist, 
of  Friends,  iii,  261. 

Jordan,  Richard  (1),  a minister  of  the  Society  of 
Friends,  was  born  in  Nansemond  County,  Va.,  in  1693, 
and  began  preaching  the  same  year  with  his  younger 
brother  Joseph  (see  above).  The  two  brothers  fre- 
quently travelled  together,  preaching  the  word  of  God, 
in  Virginia,  Maryland,  and  Carolina,  and  suffered  no 
little  from  persecution.  In  1728  he  visited  the  Qua- 
kers in  England,  Ireland,  Scotland, Wales,  and  in  Bar- 
badoes.  After  two  years  he  returned  to  the  States,  and 
settled  in  Philadelphia,  where  he  died  August  5,  1742. 
“ His  ministry  was  convincing  and  consolatory,  his  de- 
livery graceful,  but  unaffected ; in  prayer  he  was  solemn 
and  reverent.”  See  Janney,  Ilist.  of  Friends,  iii,  270. 

Jordan,  Richard  (2),  a minister  of  the  Society  of 
Friends,  was  born  in  Norfolk  County,  Va.,  Dec.  12, 1756. 
He  entered  on  ministerial  labors  in  1797  in  New  York 
and  New  England,  and  in  1802  visited  Europe,  where 
he  spent  tvro  years.  On  his  return  he  settled  at  Hart- 
ford, Conn.,  and  five  years  later  removed  to  Newton,  N. 
J.,  where  he  died  Oct.  14,  1826.  He  was  an  able  minis- 
ter of  the  Gospel,  devoted  to  the  service  of  his  heavenly 
M aster.  See  Janney,  Hist,  of  Friends,  iv,  105. 

Jordanes.  See  Jornandez. 

Jordanus  i>a  Giano,  or  de  Yane.  See  Minor- 
ites. 

J ordanus  of  Saxonia,  second  general  of  the  Do- 
minicans, was  born  at  Borrentrick,  in  the  diocese  of 
Paderborn,  near  the  close  of  the  twelfth  century.  Af- 
ter studying  theology  at  the  University  of  Paris,  he 
joined  the  Dominicans  in  1219,  and  in  1220  took  part 
in  the  first  general  chapter  of  his  order.  In  1221  he 
was  made  prior  of  the  province  of  Lombardy,  and  finally 


1010 


JORIS 


.TOR  I BAS 


elected  general  in  1222,  ten  months  after  the  death  of 
St.  Dominie.  The  order  grew  rapidly  under  his  admin- 
istration, and  soon  possessed  establishments  as  far  as 
Poland,  and  even  in  Palestine,  whither  Jordanus  went 
in  122*.  The  ship  was  wrecked  on  the  return  voyage, 
and  .Initialing  drowned,  in  1236.  He  wrote,  Be  Prin- 
cipio  Ordinis  Pmdicatorum  (Ecliard,  Scriptores  Ordinis 
Pmdicatorum,  vol.  i) : — Gpistolu  de  Translatione  corpo- 
ris Ji.  Bominici  (Bzovins,  Annales,  1233,  vol.  i) Super 
Prisciminm,  et  quwdam  grammatical^ , a MS.  in  the 
Leipzig  Library.  See  Acta  Sanctorum,  Feb.,  ii,  720; 
Echard,  Scriptores  Ordinis  Preedicatorum,  vi,  93 ; Hoe- 
fer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvi,  941.  (J.  X.  P.) 

Jor'ibas  (1  Esdr.  viii,  44)  or  Jor'ibus  (1  Esdr.  ix, 
19),  Gnvcized  forms  (’I wpi/lof,  Yulg.  Joribus)  of  the 
name  Jarir  (q.  v.)  of  two  persons  (corresponding  to 
Ezra  viii,  16,  and  Ezra  x,  18,  in  the  Hebrew  text  of  the 
above  passages  respectively). 

Jo'rim  ( 1 toptip,  perh.  i.  q.  Joram),  the  son  of  Mat- 
that  and  father  of  Eleazar,  maternal  ancestors  of  Jesus, 
not  mentioned  in  the  O.  Test.  (Lnke  iii,  29).  B.C.  post 
876.  See  Genealogy  of  Christ. 

Joris  (really  Jouiszoox,  i.  e.  Georg'sson,  hence  also 
called  Gear  (pi),  David,  founder  of  an  Anabaptist  sect  of 
the  16th  century,  known  under  the  name  of  Bavidists,  or 
more  generally  under  that  of  Jorists,  himself  altogether 
a most  extraordinary  character,  was  born  either  in  1501  or 
1502,  at  Delft, in  Holland,  or,  as  Xippold  thinks,  at  Ghent. 
He  has  generally  been  spoken  of  as  of  low  parentage,  but 
Xippold  holds  that  David’s  father  was  originally  a mer- 
chant, and  afterwards  the  head  of  a company  who  went 
about  acting  the  play  of  the  life  of  David  the  Psalmist, 
but  that  his  mother  was  of  noble  origin.  David  was 
early  placed  at  school,  but  the  boy’s  inclination  was 
more  to  a roving  life,  like  that  of  his  father,  than  to 
books,  lie  early  evinced  a particular  fondness  for  the 
art  of  glass  painting.  He  was  therefore  finally  taken 
from  school  and  apprenticed  to  a glass  painter,  and  soon 
displayed  great  aptitude  in  his  profession.  To  perfect 
himself  in  this  art  he  set  out  on  a journey  to  neighboring 
countries,  and  travelled  through  Belgium,  France,  and 
England,  until  a dangerous  disease  hastened  his  return 
to  Holland.  He  now  (1524)  settled  at  Delft,  and  mar- 
ried. 1 1 itherto  the  young  painter  had  displayed  no  ex- 
traordinary religious  zeal;  it  is  true  he  had  been  strict 
in  all  his  religious  observances,  and  had  frequently  de-  , 
dared  himself  in  favor  of  vital  piety,  but  this,  at  a time 
when  the  reformatory  movement  was  in  its  infancy,  was 
not  remarkable.  Even  now  he  continued  his  attention 
to  his  business,  and  only  on  a few  public  occasions  dur- 
ing the  religious  commotions  of  this  time  he  dropped  a 
word  against  the  fanatic  zeal  of  the  Romish  clergy,  and 
the  religious  excesses  of  the  Romish  Church.  In  1530, 
however,  he  appears  more  prominently  on  the  stage. 
It  is  true  he  had  previously  written  a few  pamphlets 
against  Romanism,  but  these  had  failed  to  provoke  reply, 
or  a demand  for  interference  on  the  part  of  the  authori- 
ties. But  this  year,  while  a procession  of  Roman  Cath- 
olics was  moving  through  the  streets  of  Delft,  he  stop- 
ped the  priests  and  accused  them  of  the  crime  of  de- 
ceiving the  people  by  false  teachings;  lie  especially 
reproached  them  for  their  worship  of  images  and  pic- 
tures. I he  burgomaster  of  Delft  favored  Joris  not  a 
little,  being  a friend  of  his;  but  this  daring  action  could 
not  go  unpunished,  and  Joris  was  arrested  and  impris- 
oned for  some  time.  After  a trial,  however,  he  escaped, 
no  doubt  by  the  aid  of  his  friend,  without  any  severe 
punishment,  lie  quitted  Delft  for  six  vears,  and  it  was 
during  his  wanderings  at  this  time  that  he  became 
estranged  from  the  true  Reformation  principles  and 
an  a Ihercnt  to  Anabaptist  views,  and  finallv  even  the 
founder  of  an  independent  sect.  His  roving  life,  so 
very  much  akin  to  that  of  all  the  Anabaptist  leaders, 
inclined  him  to  their  cause;  but.  being  as  yet  more 
moderate  than  they,  and  opposed  to  their  tumultuous 
proceedings,  especially  to  their  views  of  establishing 


their  authority  by  the  sword,  it  was  not  until  1534  that 
he  actually  joined  them  by  rebaptism.  At  this  time 
the  Anabaptists  were  at  the  zenith  of  their  success,  es- 
pecially at  Minister.  See  Anabaptists.  Being  re- 
quested to  preach  and  espouse  their  cause  before  the 
people,  he  at  first  hesitated,  and  pleaded  incompetency; 
but  at  last  was  prevailed  upon,  and  was  consecrated  by 
Dammas,  Ubbo,  and  others  as  bishop  of  Delft.  The  same 
zeal  which  he  had  manifested  in  the  'cause  of  the  Lu- 
therans he  now  displayed  in  behalf  of  the  Anabaptists, 
and  we  may  infer  from  the  hesitancy  of  the  authorities 
to  interfere  with  Joris  that  his  influence  had  become 
quite  extended  and  his  followers  very  numerous.  Cer- 
tainly Joris  himself  was  quite  conscious  of  the  extent 
of  his  power,  and  he  hesitated  not  to  use  it  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  one  great  object  that  seemed  to  be 
nearest  his  heart,  the  union  of  all  Anabaptist  forces  un- 
der one  common  leader,  the  seeure  establishment  of  the 
principles  which  he  himself  espoused,  and  which  no 
doubt  he  as  yet  believed  to  be  based  on  the  Scriptures 
and  indorsed  by  divine  favor.  But  his  course  soon 
aroused  suspicion  among  the  other  Anabaptist  leaders. 
They  were  not  slow  to  recognise  in  Joris  an  able  and 
determined  leader,  and,  jealous  of  the  success  he  had  al- 
ready achieved,  and  fearfid  of  their  own  position,  they 
openly  disavowed  him.  Such  a course  was  adopted,  es- 
pecially, by  Batenburg  himself,  the  founder  of  an  Ana- 
baptist sect,  a determined  ruffian,  void  of  all  feeling, 
who,  under  the  garb  of  religion,  sought  the  enjoyment 
of  wealth  and  power.  He  preached  the  extinction  of 
all  non-An abaptists  by  the  sword.  Strangely  enough, 
however,  his  very  followers,  after  his  decease,  became 
the  most  faithful  adherents  of  Joris.  Opposed  within 
the  camp  of  the  Anabaptists,  Joris,  in  1536,  at  the  Con- 
vocation of  Anabaptists  held  at  Boeholt,  assumed  a still 
more  independent  position,  and  proudly  declared  him- 
self divinely  appointed  as  leader.  This  further  provoked 
the  jealousy  of  the  other  leaders;  and  as,  immediately 
after  the  Convocation  of  Boeholt,  Joris  issued  a pamph- 
let calling  all  parties  to  a peaceful  union,  the  wrath  of 
the  different  leaders  was  stimulated  anew,  and  resulted 
in  an  entire  estrangement  of  most  of  the  Anabaptists. 
, Those  who  now  continued  to  espouse  his  cause  were 
hereafter  known  as  Jorists  or  Bavidists.  Providence 
seemed  to  favor  his  effort.  Letters  came  to  him  from 
qjl  directions  urging  him  to  stand  firm  in  this  trying 
hour : to  these  were  added  visions  and  revelations  which 
he  fancied  he  had.  Even  the  persecutions  to  which  his 
followers  were  now  subjected  by  the  authorities  were 
interpreted  by  him  as  a further  proof  of  the  divine  fa- 
vor. Was  it  not  gain  for  them  to  die?  From  Hol- 
land we  see  him  hasten  to  Westphalia,  and  thence  back 
again  to  his  native  state  to  comfort  his  suffering  adher- 
ents, and  to  attend  and  animate  them  in  their  dying 
hours.  Xor  did  he  waver  when  he  saw  his  own  mother 
led  to  the  scaffold  (at  Delft,  1537),  attesting  in  her  dying 
hour  the  doctrines  which  her  son  was  propagating. 
The  extent  of  his  influence  may  be  inferred  from  the 
number  who  at  this  time  became  the  subjects  of  perse- 
cution. At  Delft  thirty-five  persons  were  executed  for 
their  adherence  to  Joris;  at  Haarlem,  Amsterdam,  Ley- 
den, Rotterdam,  and  other  cities  also  many  suffered 
likewise.  In  the  space  of  two  years  more  than  two 
hundred  betokened  their  faithfulness  to  Anabaptist 
views  at  the  expense  of  their  life.  Xor  was  Joris  him- 
self safe  from  persecution.  He  was  obliged  to  leave 
Delft,  where  he  had  lived  for  a while  secretly,  and,  after 
fleeing  from  place  to  place  in  his  native  country,  he  at 
last  quitted  Holland.  A monitory  letter  which  he  dis- 
patched to  the  senate  of  his  native  land  cost  the  bearer 
his  head.  To  return  to  Holland  then  became  for  Joris 
a hazardous  undertaking ; he  therefore  sought  a home 
within  the  dominions  of  the  landgrave  of  Hesse,  but  the 
latter  also  refused  the  weary  wanderer  a resting-place 
unless  be  came  as  a Lutheran.  Of  course  Joris  was  not 
now  likely  to  yield  up  all  that  his  imagination  had  fan- 
cied to  be  divine  truth,  and  he  continued  his  rovings 


JORIS 


1011 


JORNANDEZ 


until  he  felt  safe  nowhere.  Suddenly  we  meet  in  Switz- 
erland, in  the  city  of  Basle,  a person  by  the  name  of 
John  of  Bruges,  the  owner  of  real  estate  in  the  town 
and  in  the  country,  a peaceable  and  good  citizen,  a com- 
municant in  the  Reformed  Church,  who  had  come  to 
Basle  with  his  family  in  the  spring  of  1544.  This  man 
was  none  other  than  David  Joris,  the  celebrated  Ana- 
baptist leader,  who,  tired  of  years  of  wandering,  preferred 
a life  of  safety  and  comfort  under  a fictitious  name  to  a 
life  of  celebrity  and  danger  as  the  leader  of  a large  re- 
ligious sect.  No  one  ever  suspected  under  the  garb  of 
John  of  Bruges  the  form  of  David  Joris,  and  he  ended 
his  days  peacefully,  in  the  midst  of  his  family,  in  155G. 
By  the  people  of  Basle,  John  of  Bruges,  alias  David  Jo- 
ris, was  highly  esteemed  while  he  lived  among  them, 
for,  being  a man  of  wealth,  he  united  magnificence  with 
virtue  and  integrity.  But  they  thought  differently  after 
his  death,  when  his  son-in-law,  Nicholas  Blesdyck,  a 
Reformed  preacher  in  the  Palatinate,  an  avaricious  and 
unprincipled  man,  charged  the  deceased  with  the  most 
blasphemous  errors.  However  much  David’s  family 
might  remonstrate  and  deny  the  serious  charges,  the 
university  and  the  clergy  were  called  upon  to  pronounce 
Joris’s  opinions  as  heretical,  and  his  body  was  ordered 
to  be  dug  up  forthwith  and  committed  to  the  common 
hangman  to  be  burned.  Thus,  strangely  enough,  the 
Basle  people  actually  brought  to  pass  what  Joris  him- 
self had  told  some  of  his  disciples  before  his  decease, 
that  he  would  rise  again  at  the  end  of  three  years. 

Respecting  the  character  and  opinions  of  Joris,  Mos- 
heim  says  ( JCccles . Hist.  bit.  iv,  cent,  xvi,  sec.  iii,  pt.  ii, 
ch.  iii),  “He  possessed  more  sense  and  more  virtue  than 
is  commonly  supposed,  as  is  evinced  not  only  by  his 
books,  of  which  lie  published  a great  many,  but  also  by 
his  disciples,  who  were  persons  by  no  means  base,  but  of 
great  simplicity  of  manners  and  character.  ...  In  the 
manner  of  the  more  moderate  Anabaptists,  he  labored 
hard  to  revive  languishing  piety  among  his  fellow-men; 
and  in  this  matter  his  imagination,  which  was  exces- 
sively warm,  so  deceived  him  that  he  falsely  supposed 
he  had  divine  visions;  and  he  placed  religion  in  the 
exclusion  of  all  eternal  objects  from  the  thoughts,  and 
the  cultivation  of  silence,  contemplation,  and  a peculiar 
and  indescribable  state  of  the  soul.  The  Mystics,  there- 
fore, of  the  highest  order,  and  the  Quakers,  might  claim 
him  if  they  would,  and  they  might  assign  him  no  mean 
rank  among  their  sort  of  people.”  He  believed  that  the 
true  word  of  God  is  no  external  letter,  but  God  himself, 
his  word,  and  his  voice  in  man  himself,  lie  opposed 
the  doctrine  of  the  Church  concerning  the  Trinity  on 
the  ground  that  God  is  impersonal.  “ Is  it  not  contra- 
ry to  the  manifestations  of  God  in  the  creature  to  be- 
lieve him  to  be  three,  and  to  call  all  three  one?”  he 
asks;  and  then  replies,  “God  reveals  himself  in  three 
periods,  following  each  other  successively — the  periods 
of  faith,  hope,  and  love,  all  of  them  headed  by  a God- 
man  appearing  in  God’s  stead.”  The  second  commenced 
with  Jesus  Christ,  but  the  third  and  higher  period,  the 
period  of  perfect  manhood,  was  inaugurated  with  the 
appearance  of  David  Joris.  The  true  Christ  is  the  spir- 
itual, the  eternal  word,  eternally  hid  in  the  Father,  the 
heart  and  the  nature  of  God.  This  spiritual  Christ  has 
by  no  means  really  become  flesh,  but  Jesus  took  the 
form  of  Christ  in  the  flesh  to  make  himself  manifest. 
All  that  was  done  on  or  by  Jesus  in  the  body  was  a 
shadow  (type)  of  what  man  will  do  and  suffer  in  the 
spirit,  lienee  also  there  was  no  power  for  salvation  in 
Christ’s  external  (i.  e.  bodily)  sufferings  and  death,  but 
we  of  our  own  accord  must  save  ourselves  by  the  suffer- 
ings and  death  of  our  old  man.  This  deeper  and  more 
complete  revelation  is  made  to  the  world  by  David  Jo- 
ris, the  true  David,  the  Christ,  not  by  descent  in  the 
flesh,  but  in  the  Spirit,  and  not  in  the  spirit  of  the  cru- 
cified and  deceased,  but  of  the  resurrected  and  living 
Christ.  With  Joris’s  appearance  must  terminate  the 
announcement  of  Christ  after  the  flesh.  Joris  himself 
is  to  establish,  both  internally  and  externally,  the  eter- 


nal kingdom  of  Christ,  which  hitherto  was  the  king- 
dom of  Christ  only  internally.  He  who  has  reached 
the  perfection  of  this  kingdom  [which,  of  course,  could 
also  be  done  in  this  world,  his  external  kingdom]  is 
freed  thereafter  from  all  law,  be  it  human  or  divine. 
Evidently  Joris’s  doctrine  was  nothing  but  a fully  de- 
veloped system  of  Montanism  (q.  v.).  He  denied  the 
doctrine  of  future  judgment,  as  lie  declared  that  perfec- 
tion is  attained  in  this  world,  and  thereafter  the  depend- 
ence of  the  subject  on  the  Creator  ceases.  Of  course  he 
also  ruled  out  of  existence  angels,  both  good  and  bad. 
He  held,  with  Manes,  that  the  body  only,  and  not  the 
soul,  was  defiled  by  sin;  and  he  took  a most  impolitic 
step  when  he  adopted  the  principles  of  the  Adamites 
with  respect  to  marriage. 

Of  his  ‘250  books  and  1000  letters,  the  most  important 
is  his  Boole  of  Miracles,  which  appeared  at  Deventer  in 
154*2,  under  the  title  of  Wonderboeck,  etc.  (2d  ed.  1551, 
folio).  A list  of  all  his  writings,  and  a very  elaborate 
statement  of  his  life  and  work,  were  written  by  Prof. 
Nippolt,  of  Heidelberg  University,  in  the  Zeitschrift. fur 
hist.  Theol.  1803,  p.  389 ; 1804,  p.  483  sq. ; 1 8G8,  p.  470  sq. 
See  also  Arnold,  Kirchen  v.  Keizer  historic,  pt.  ii,  bk.  xvi, 
ch.  xxi,  § 30,  p.  873  sq. ; Trechsel,  Pi'otest.  Antitrinit.  i, 
30,  55;  Escher,  in  Ersch.  und  Gruber,  Allgem.  Encyklop. 
xxiii,  3G-47 ; Schrockh,  Kirchengesch.  s.  d.  Reformation , 
v,  442  sq.,  409  sq. ; Ilcnke,  Kirchengesch.  iii,  148  sq. ; 
Cramer,  in  the  Archiv.  of  Kist  en  Royetards,  v,  1 sq. ; vi, 
291  sq.  See  Anabaptists.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Jorissen,  Matthias,  a minister  of  the  Dutch  Re- 
formed Church,  was  born  at  Wezel.  Holland,  October  20, 
1739,  and  educated  at  the  University  of  Utrecht.  His 
first  settlement  was  at  Havezathen,  whence  he  was  call- 
ed to  Hasselt,  and  thence,  in  1782,  to  the  Hague,  to 
preach  to  a German  congregation.  This  charge  he  held 
up  to  his  death,  Jan.  13, 1823.  Jorissen’s  characteristics 
were  clearness  and  vigor  of  intellect,  warmth  of  affec- 
tion, solidity  of  judgment,  and  a remarkable  talent  to 
read  men  and  things.  II is  native  endowments  were 
cultivated  by  extensive  reading,  thorough  study,  and 
much  intercourse  with  the  best  society.  He  was  evan- 
gelical in  sentiment,  of  emineut  personal  piety,  devoted 
to  the  best  interests  of  his  flock,  and  commanded  uni- 
versal esteem  and  love.  He  was  one  of  the  founders  of 
the  Netherlands  Missionary  Society.  A new  version  of 
the  Psalms  in  German  was  prepared  by  him.  To  it  he 
added  a few  hymns.  It  was  welcomed  and  adopted  by 
German  congregations  in  the  Reformed  Church  of  Hol- 
land. His  other  published  writings  are  comparative- 
ly few.  See  Glasius,  Godgeleerd  Nederland,  ii,  180  sq. ; 
Geschiedenis  der  Nederlandsche  Ilerrormde  Kerk,  by  A. 
Ypeij  and  J.  Dermont,  iv,  320.  (J.  I’.  W.) 

Jor'koam  [some  Jorko'dm ] (Hebrew  Yorkcam', 
])edeness  of  the  people,  or  perh.  extended  people ; 
Sept.  ’IfpKnnp  v.  r.  ’IckXcu',  both  confounded  with  Re- 
kein  following;  Vulgate  Jercacmi),  a person  apparently 
named  as  the  son  of  Rabam,  of  the  descendants  of  Caleb, 
the  brother  of  Jerahmeel,  of  the  tribe  of  Judah  (1  Cbron. 
ii,  44);  but.  others  (e.  g.  Gesenius  after  Jarchi)  under- 
stand ^father”  there  to  mean/bw»cfer,so  that  this  would 
be  the  name  of  a town  settled  by  Raham — an  interpreta- 
tion sustained  by  a similar  use  of  other  names  in  the 
same  connection.  The  locality  thus  alluded  to  is  oth- 
erwise unknown,  but  from  the  associated  places  may  be 
presumed  to  have  been  a place  in  the  region  south-east 
of  Hebron. 

Jornandez  ( Jornandes  or  .Tordunes),  a celebrated 
historian  of  the  0th  century,  was  by  birth  a Goth,  or 
both  of  Alan  and  Gothic  descent.  After  adopting  the 
Christian  religion  he  became  a zealous  churchman,  sub- 
sequently entered  a monastery,  and  was  finally  made 
bishop  of  Croton,  in  Italy.  He  wrote  two  historical 
works  in  the  Latin  language,  De  Regnorum  ac  Tempo- 
rum  Succession — a short  compendium  of  the  most  im- 
portant events  in  history  from  the  Creation  down  to 
A.D.  552 ; valuable  from  the  accounts  it  contains  of  sev- 


JOSEPH 


JORTIN  1012 


eral  barbarous  northern  nations — and  De  Getarum  Oii- 
r/ine  et  Rebus  Gestis  (concerning  the  origin  and  deeds  of 
the  Goths),  which  has  obtained  great  renown,  chiefly 
from  its  being  onr  only  source  of  information  about  the 
tioths  and  other  barbarian  tribes,  except  when  they  are 
casually  mentioned  by  some  Greek  or  Latin  historian. 
The  work,  which  in  the  main  is  a compilation  of  other 
writers,  is  full  of  inaccuracies,  both  of  time,  place,  and 
person ; Jornandcz  himself, however,  seems  to  have  been 
aware  of  the  imperfect  condition  of  his  works,  for  he 
makes  no  claims  to  erudition  or  extended  research. 
The  aim  of  the  works  is  believed  to  have  been  first  to 
extol  the  Gothic  nation,  and,  secondly,  to  bring  about 
a union  of  the  Goths  and  the  Homans,  for  he  tries  to 
prove  that  both  nations  have  long  been  friends  and  con- 
federates, and  that  their  perpetuation  depended  upon 
the  most  intimate  alliance  of  the  two.  See  Grimm  and 
Kraffr,  K.  gesch.  d.  gener.  1 'utter,  1,  i,  77,  etc. ; Schmidt’s 
ZAtschr.  j.  tleschichtl.  U'ttsensckaft,  vi,  516  sq. ; Sybel, 
De  fontibus  libri  Jordanis , etc.  (Berlin,  1838) ; Herzog, 
Real-Enn/klop.  vi,  s.  v. 

Jortin,  John,  D.D.,  an  eminent  English  divine,  was 
born  in  London  Oct.  23, 1698.  His  parents  were  French 
Huguenots,  and  formed  part  of  that  noble  and  devoted 
baud  who  fled  from  France  at  the  revocation  of  the 
Edict  of  Nantes,  giving  up  all  in  preference  to  abjur- 
ing their  faith.  He  received  his  grammatical  edu- 
cation at  the  Charter  House.  In  May,  1715,  he  was 
admitted  to  Jesus  College,  in  Cambridge,  of  which  he 
became  in  due  time  a fellow.  He  very  soon  attracted 
attention  by  his  remarkable  proficiency  as  a scholar, 
particularly  his  mastery  of  the  learned  languages,  and 
two  years  after  being  admitted  to  the  college  was  rec- 
ommended by  his  tutor,  Dr.  Styan  Thirlbv,  to  make  ex- 
tracts from  Eustathius  for  the  use  of  Pope’s  Homer,  and 
lor  his  services  in  the  work  he  received  the  highest 
commendations  from  that  distinguished  poet.  While  at 
Cambridge  he  published  a small  volume  of  poems,  which 
are  greatly  admired,  and  allowed  by  scholars  to  possess 
a very  high  rank  among  modern  Latin  verses.  In  1723 
he  was  admitted  to  deacon’s  orders,  and  the  following 
June  to  that  of  priest.  In  1726-27  he  was  presented  to 
the  living  of  Swavescy,  near  Cambridge,  but,  in  conse- 
quence of  his  marriage  soon  after,  he  resigned  that  liv- 
ing, and  removed  to  London,  where  he  soon  became  an 
admired  and  popular  preacher.  When  his  friend.  Dr. 
Osbaldeston,  became  bishop  of  London  in  1762,  Jortin 
was  appointed  his  domestic  chaplain,  and  was  presented 
with  a prebend  in  the  Church  of  St.  Paul  and  the  living 
of  Kensington.  To  these  was  soon  added  the  archdea- 
conry of  London,  lie  fixed  his  residence  at  Kensing- 
ton, where  lie  died  in  1770.  lie  was  as  much  beloved 
for  his  private  virtues  as  admired  for  his  learning,  abil- 
ities, liberality  of  mind,  and  contempt  of  subserviency. 
Few  men  have  ever  enjoyed  the  intimacy  of  so  many 
eminent  persons.  Among  these  may  be  mentioned  the 
names  of  bishops  Horsley,  Warburton,  Sherlock,  Hare, 
Lowth,  and  Seeker,  besides  Cudwortli,  Middleton,  Pope, 
Akenside,  Dr.  Samuel  Johnson,  Dr.  Parr,  Dr.  Doddridge, 
and  others.  The  most  intimate  relations  subsisted  be- 
tween Dr.  Jortin  and  bishop  Warburton  until  he  incur- 
red the  displeasure  of  that  distinguished  prelate  by  con- 
troverting his  doctrine  with  regard  to  the  state  "of  the 
dead,  as  described  by  I lomcr  and  Virgil,  in  liis  “ Divine 
Legation  of  Moses.”  The  critical  writings  of  Dr.  Jortin 
are  greatly  admired  by  all  who  have  a taste  for  curious 
literature.  It  is  not  merely  on  account  of  the  learning 
which  is  displayed  in  them,  and  the  use  which  is  made 
of  obscure  authors,  but  there  is  a terseness  in  the  expres- 
sion, and  a light,  playful  satire  in  the  thoughts,  which 
render  them  very  entertaining,  liis  principal  works 
are,  Discourses  concerning  the  Truth  of  the  Christian  Re- 
ligion, etc.  (Loml.  1746,  3 vols.  8vo)  ’.—Life.  of  Erasmus 
(Lend.  1 1 5H_fiO,  2 vols.  4to) : — Sermons  on  different  Sub- 
jects, and  the  Doctrine  of  a Future  State,  etc.  (Loud.  1771, 
1 tls.  8 vo)  -.—Six  Dissertations  upon  different  Subjects 
(IiOiul.  1772.  < vols.  8vo)  : — Tracts,  philological,  critical, 


and  miscellaneous  (Loud.  1790,  2 vols.  8vo)  Miscella- 
neous Observations  upon  Authors,  ancient  and  modern 
(1731,  2 vols.  8vo)  : — On  Covetousness  (Tracts  of  Angl. 
Fathers,  iv,  226) ; and  Remarks  on  Ecclesiastical  His- 
tory, a work  which  is  universally  allowed  to  he  curious, 
interesting,  and  impartial ; full  of  manly  sense,  acute- 
ness, and  profound  erudition. — English  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v. ; 
Alii  bone,  Dictionary  of  English  and  American  Authors, 
s.  v.  (E.  de  P.) 

Jos'abad,  a less  correct  form  for  1.  Jozabad  (q.v.), 
a,  1 Chron.  xii,  4;  b (Uo^aftcog  v.  r.  ’U>i(jaf386g),  1 
Esdr.  viii,  63;  compare  Ezra  viii,  33.  2.  For  Zabdai 

(IwZuficiog  v.  r.  ’Doactfiadog,  'UZufiaSog,  and  Za(3S6g), 
1 Esdr.  ix,  29 ; comp.  Ezra  x,  28. 

Jos'aphat  (’I lotratpar),  a Gnecized  form  (Matt,  i, 
8)  of  the  name  of  Jeiioshaphat  (q.  v.),  king  of  Judah. 

Josaphi'as  ( fwoaiptac ),  a Graecized  form  (1  Esdr. 
viii,  36)  of  the  name  Josiphiah  (q.  v.)  of  the  Heb.  text 
(Ezra  viii,  10). 

Joscelin,  bishop  of  Soissons,  a rival  of  Abelard,  and 
one  of  the  most  distinguished  teachers  in  Paris,  was  bom 
in  the  latter  part  of  the  lltli  century.  In  1115  he  be- 
came archdeacon  of  Soissons,  and  in  1126  succeeded 
Lisiard  as  bishop  of  that  see.  He  took  part  in  the 
councils  of  Troyes  and  Rouen,  and  in  the  coronation  of 
king  Philip.  In  1131  Innocent  II  sent  him,  together 
with  St.  Bernard,  on  a mission  to  the  archbishop  and  to 
the  count  of  Bordeaux.  On  his  return  in  1132  he  found- 
ed the  abbey  of  Longpont.  In  1140  he  was  one  of  the 
judges  of  Abelard  at  the  Council  of  Sens,  and  at  the 
Council  of  Paris  in  1147  was  commissioned  to  inquire 
into  the  propositions  attributed  to  Gilbert  de  la  Porre'e. 
He  died  Oct.  25,  1152.  Joscelin  enjoyed  great  reputa- 
tion for  learning  and  wisdom,  and  in  his  diocese  fulfilled 
all  the  duties  of  his  charge  with  scrupulous  faithfulness. 
He  wrote  an  Expositio  symboli  and  an  Expositio  Ora- 
tionis  Dominicw,  both  of  which  were  published  in  Mar- 
tene  and  Durand’s  Amplissima  Collectio,  ix,  1101, 1111 , 
Martene,  Anecdota,  p.  434,  gives  also  two  of  his  letters. 
See  Gallia  Christ,  ix,  357  ; Ilist.  Litt.  de  la  France,  xii, 
412. — Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog,  Generate,  xxvi,  948.  (J.  N.  P.) 

J oscius  (called  also  Jodocus,  Joscionus,  Josceli- 
nus,  Jostiio,  and  Gotho),  a French  Roman  Catholic 
prelate,  became  bishop  of  St.  Brieuc  in  1150.  In  1157 
he  was  translated  to  the  see  of  Tours,  and  immediately 
began  to  quarrel  with  the  convents  of  liis  diocese,  till 
king  Louis  VII  was  obliged  to  interfere.  When  Fred- 
erick Barbarossa  pretended  to  judge  the  claims  of  the 
rival  popes,  Victor  and  Alexander,  Joscius  was  sent  to 
the  latter  by  England  and  France  to  assure  him  of  their 
support  and  bring  him  to  France.  In  1167  Joscius  was 
the  prelate  who,  after  the  murder  of  Thomas  a Bccket, 
was  commissioned  by  the  pope  to  excommunicate  the 
king  of  England.  It  was  Joscius  also  who,  when  Henry 
had  received  absolution  in  1172,  went  to  him  at  Caen, 
and  publicly  declared  him  reconciled  to  the  Church, 
lie  died  in  1173  or  1174.  See  Gallia  Christ,  vol.  xiv, 
col.  89, 1088. — llocfer,  Xouv.  Biogr.  Gene  rule,  xxvi,  949. 

Jo's&  (lunri),  or,  rather,  ’lojcrg,  Gen.  of  ‘hoagg,  Jo- 
ses), the  son  of  Eleazar  and  father  of  Er,  among  the 
maternal  ancestors  of  Christ,  unmentioned  in  the  O.  T. 
(Luke  iii,  29).  B.C.  between  876  and  628.  See  Gene- 
alogy of  Jesus  Christ. 

Jos'edec  ( I utaedetc),  a Gnecized  form  (1  Esdr.  v,  5, 
48,  56;  vi,  2;  ix,  19;  Ecclus.  xlix,  12)  of  the  name  of 
Josedech  (q.v.)  the  liigh-priest  (Hag.  i,  1). 

Jo'seph  (Heb.  Yoseph',  73"1,  containing,  accord- 
ing to  Gen.  xxx,  23,  24,  a two-fold  significance  [the  two 
Heb.  roots  coinciding  in  form  in  Iliphil],  remover,  from 
and  increaser,  from  “On,  the  latter  favored  by  the 
uncontracted  or  Chaldaistic  form  Yehoseph'.  rD'rP,  oc- 
curring only  Psa.  lxxxi,  6 ; Sept,  and  N.  T.  ’lujogip,  i.  q. 
Josephus),  the  name  of  several  men  in  the  Scriptures 
and  Josephus,  all  doubtless  after  the  first  of  the  name* 


josepii 


1013 


JOSEPH 


whose  beautiful  history  is  told  at  length  in  the  Scrip- 
tures with  inimitable  simplicity.  See  also  Josephus. 

1.  The  elder  son  of  Jacob  and  Rachel,  horn  (B.C. 
1913 ; comp.  Gen.  xli,  4G)  under  peculiar  circumstances, 
as  may  be  seen  in  Gen.  xxx,  22;  on  which  account,  and 
because  he  was  the  son  of  his  old  age  (xxxvii,  3),  he 
was  beloved  by  his  father  more  than  were  the  rest  of 
his  children,  though  Benjamin,  as  being  also  a son  of 
Jacob’s  favorite  wife  Rachel,  was  in  a pecidiar  manner 
dear  to  the  patriarch.  The  partiality  evinced  towards 
Joseph  by  his  father  excited  jealousy  on  the  part  of  his 
brethren,  the  rather  as  they  were  born  of  different 
mothers  (xxxvii,  2).  Jacob  at  this  time  had  two  small 
pieces  of  land  in  Canaan,  Abraham’s  burying-place  at 
Hebron  in  the  south,  and  the  “parcel  of  a field,  where 
he  [Jacob]  had  spread  his  tent”  (xxxiii,  19),  at  She- 
chcm  in  the  north,  the  latter  being  probably,  from  its 
price,  the  lesser  of  the  two.  He  seems  then  to  have 
staid  at  Hebron  with  the  aged  Isaac,  while  his  sons 
kept  his  flocks. 

1.  Joseph  had  reached  his  seventeenth  year,  having 
hitherto  been  engaged  in  boyish  sports,  or  aiding  in 
pastoral  duties,  when  some  conduct  on  the  part  of  “ the 
sons  of  Bilhah  and  the  sons  of  Zilpah,  his  father’s  wives,” 
seems  to  have  been  such  as,  in  the  opinion  of  Joseph,  to 
require  the  special  attention  of  Jacob,  to  whom  accord- 
ingly he  communicated  the  facts.  This  regard  to  vir- 
tue, and  this  manifestation  of  filial  fidelity,  greatly  in- 
creased his  brothers’  dislike,  who  henceforth  “ hated  him, 
and  could-  not  speak  peaceably  unto  him”  (xxxvii,  4). 
Their  jealousy  was  aggravated  by  the  fact  that  Jacob 
had  shown  his  preference  by  making  him  a dress  (PIPS 
E”35),  which  appears  to  have  been  a long  tunic  with 
sleeves,  worn  by  youths  and  maidens  of  the  richer  class. 
See  Attire.  Their  aversion,  however,  was  carried  to 
the  highest  pitch  when  Joseph  acquainted  them  with 
the  two  dreams  that  he  had  had,  to  the  effect — the  first, 
that  while  he  and  they  were  binding  sheaves,  his  sheaf 
arose  and  stood  erect,  while  theirs  stood  round  and  did 
obeisance  to  his;  the  second,  that  “the  sun  and  the 
moon  and  the  eleven  stars  did  him  homage.”  These 
dreams  appeared  to  indicate  that  Joseph  would  acquire 
pre-eminence  in  the  family,  if  not  sovereignty;  and 
while  even  his  father  rebuked  him,  his  brothers  were 
filled  with  envv  (xxxvii,  11).  Jacob,  however,  was  not 
aware  of  the  depth  of  their  ill  will ; so  that,  on  one  oc- 
casion, having  a desire  to  hear  intelligence  of  his  sons, 
who  were  pasturing  their  flocks  at  a distance,  he  did 
not  hesitate  to  make  Joseph  his  messenger  for  that  pur- 
pose. They  had  gone  to  Shechem  to  feed  the  flock, 
and  Joseph  was  sent  thither  from  the  vale  of  Hebron  by 
his  father  to  bring  him  word  of  their  welfare  and  that 
of  the  flock.  They  were  not  at  Shechem,  but  had  gone 
to  Dothan,  which  appears  to  have  been  not  very  far 
distant,  pasturing  their  flock  like  the  Arabs  of  the  pres- 
ent day,  wherever  the  wild  country  (ver.  22)  was  un- 
owned. Ilis  appearing  in  view  of  his  brothers  was  the 
signal  for  their  malice  to  gain  head.  They  began  to 
devise  means  for  his  immediate  destruction,  which  they 
would  have  unhesitatingly  effected  but  for  his  half- 
brother  Reuben,  who,  as  the  eldest  son,  might  well  be 
the  party  to  interfere  on  behalf  of  Joseph.  A compro- 
mise was  entered  into,  in  virtue  of  which  the  youth  was 
stripped  of  the  distinguishing  vestments  which  he  owed 
to  his  father’s  affection,  and  cast  into  a pit.  Having 
performed  this  evil  deed,  and  while  they  were  taking 
refreshment,  the  brothers  beheld  a caravan  of  Arabian 
merchants  (Ishmaelites  = Midiamtes),  who  were  bearing 
the  spices  and  aromatic  gums  of  India  down  to  the  well- 
known  and  much-frequented  mart,  Egypt.  Jiulah  on 
this  feels  a better  emotion  arise  in  his  mind,  and  pro- 
poses that,  instead  of  allowing  Joseph  to  perish,  they 
should  sell  him  to  the  merchants,  whose  trade  obvious- 
ly from  this  embraced  human  beings  as  well  as  spicery. 
Accordingly  the  unhappy  young  man  was  sold  for  a 
slave  (at  the  price  of  twenty  shekels  of  silver,  a sort  of 


fixed  rate?  see  Lev.  xxvii,  5),  to  be  conveyed  by  his 
masters  into  Egypt.  "While  on  his  way  thither,  Reu- 
ben returned  to  the  pit,  intending  to  rescue  his  brother, 
and  convey  him  safely  back  to  their  father.  Finding 
Joseph,  gone,  he  returned  with  expostulations  to  the 
wicked  young  men,  who,  so  far  from  relenting,  now  con- 
certed a fresh  act  of  treachery,  by  which  at  once  to  cover 
their  crime  and  also  punish  their  father  for  his  partial- 
ity towards  the  unoffending  sufferer.  With  this  view 
they  dipped  Joseph’s  party-colored  garment  in  the  blood 
of  a kid  and  sent  it  to  Jacob,  in  order  to  make  him  be- 
lieve that  his  favorite  child  had  been  torn  to  pieces  by 
some  wild  beast.  The  trick  succeeded,  and  Jacob  was 
grieved  beyond  measure  (Gen.  xxxviii,  12-35).  B.C. 
1895. 

2.  Meanwhile  the  merchants  sold  Joseph  to  Fotiphar, 
an  officer  of  Pharaoh’s,  and  captain  of  the  royal  guard, 
who  was  a native  of  the  country  (Gen.  xxxvii,  3(3).  It 
is  by  no  means  easy  to  determine  who  at  this  time  was 
the  Pharaoh,  or  ruling  monarch,  though,  what  is  far 
more  important,  the  condition  of  the  country,  and  there- 
in the  progress  of  civilization,  arc  in  certain  general  and 
important  features  made  clear  in  the  course  of  the  nar- 
ration. According  to  Syncellus,  however,  the  general 
opinion  in  his  day  was  that  the  sovereign’s  name  who 
ruled  Egypt  at  the  time  of  the  deportation  of  Joseph 
was  Aphophis.  See  Egypt.  In  Potiphar’s  house  Jo- 
seph enjoyed  the  highest  confidence  and  the  largest 
prosperity.  A higher  power  watched  over  him ; and 
whatever  he  undertook  succeeded,  till  at  length  his  mas- 
ter gave  every  thing  into  his  hands.  He  was  placed 
over  all  his  master’s  property  with  perfect  trust,  and 
“the  Lord  blessed  the  Egyptian’s  house  for  Joseph’s 
sake”  (ver.  5).  The  sculptures  and  paintings  of  the  an- 
cient Egyptian  tombs  bring  vividly  before  us  the  daily 
life  anil  duties  of  Joseph.  The  property  of  great  men 
is  shown  to  have  been  managed  by  scribes,  who  exer- 
cised a most  methodical  and  minute  supervision  over  all 
the  operations  of  agriculture,  gardening,  the  keeping  of 
live-stock,  and  fishing.  Every  product  was  carefully 
registered  to  cheek  the  dishonesty  of  the  laborers,  who 
in  Egypt  have  always  been  famous  in  this  respect. 
Probably  in  no  country  was  farming  ever  more  system- 
atic. Joseph’s  previous  knowledge  of  tending  flocks, 
and  perhaps  of  husbandry,  and  his  truthful  character, 
exactly  fitted  him  for  the  post  of  overseer. 

The  Hebrew  race  have  always  been  remarkable  for 
personal  beauty,  of  which  Joseph  seems  to  have  had  an 
unusual  share.  This  fact  explains,  though  it  cannot 
palliate,  the  conduct  of  Potiphar’s  wife,  who,  with  the 
well-known  profligacy  of  the  Egyptian  women,  tried  ev- 
ery means  to  bring  the  pure-minded  youth  to  fulfil  her 
unchaste  desires.  Foiled  in  her  evil  wishes,  she  re- 
solved to  punish  Joseph,  who  thus  a second  time  inno- 
cently brings  on  himself  the  vengeance  of  the  ill-dis- 
posed. Charged  with  the  very  crime  to  which  he  had 
in  vain  been  tempted,  he  is,  with  a fickleness  character- 
istic of  Oriental  lords,  at  once  cast  into  the  state  prison 
(Gen.  xxxix).  If  the  suddenness  and  magnitude  of  this 
and  other  changes  in  the  lot  of  Joseph  should  surprise 
any  one,  the  feeling  will  be  mainly  owing  to  his  want  of 
acquaintance  with  the  manners  and  customs  of  the  East, 
where  vicissitudes  not  less  marked  and  sudden  than  are 
those  presented  in  our  present  history  are  not  uncom- 
mon ; for  those  who  come  into  the  charmed  circle  of  an 
Eastern  court,  especially  if  they  are  persons  of  great  en- 
ergy of  character,  are  subject  to  the  most  wonderful  al- 
ternations of  fortune,  the  slave  of  to-day  being  the  vizier 
of  to-morrow,  and  vice-versa. 

It  must  not  be  supposed,  from  the  lowness  of  the  mor- 
als of  the  Egyptians  in  practice,  that  the  sin  of  unfaith- 
fulness in  a wife  was  not  ranked  among  the  heaviest 
vices.  The  punishment  of  adulterers  was  severe,  and  a 
moral  tale,  entitled  “ The  Two  Brothers' ’ (contained  in 
a papyrus  of  the  19th  dynasty,  found  in  the  British  Mu- 
seum, and  translated  in  the  Cambridge  Essays  for  1858), 
is  founded  upon  a case  nearly  resembling  that  of  Joseph. 


JOSEPH 


JOSEPH  1014 


It  has,  indeed,  been  imagined  that  this  story  was  based 
upon  the  triai  of  Joseph,  and  as  it  was  written  for  the 
heir  to  the  throne  of  Egypt  at  a later  period,  there  is 
some  reason  in  the  idea  that  the  virtue  of  one  who  had 
held  so  high  a position  as  Joseph  might  have  been  in 
the  mind  of  the  writer,  were  this  part  of  his  history  well 
known  to  the  priests,  which,  however,  is  not  likely. 
This  incident,  moreover,  is  not  so  remarkable  as  to  jus- 
tify great  stress  being  laid  upon  the  similarity  to  it  of 
the  main  event  of  a moral  tale.  The  story  of  Belle- 
rophon  might  as  reasonably  be  traced  to  it,  were  it 
Egyptian  and  not  Greek.  The  Muslims  have  founded 
ii|K»n  the  history  of  Joseph  and  Potiphar’s  wife,  whom 
they  call  Yusuf  and  Zelikha,  a famous  religious  alle- 
gory. This  is  much  to  be  wondered  at,  as  the  Koran 
relates  the  tempting  of  Joseph  with  no  material  varia- 
tion in  the  main  particulars  from  the  authentic  narra- 
tive. The  commentators  say  that,  after  the  death  of 
Potiphar  (Kit fir),  Joseph  married  Zelikha  (Sale,  chap, 
xii ).  This  mistake  was  probably  caused  by  the  circum- 
stance that  Joseph's  father-in-law  bore  the  same  name 
as  his  master. 

Potiphar,  although  believing  Joseph  guilty,  does  not 
appear  to  have  brought  him  before  a tribunal,  where 
the  enormity  of  his  alleged  crime,  especially  after  the 
trust  placed  in  him,  and  the  fact  of  his  being  a foreign- 
er, which  was  made  much  of  by  liis  master's  wife  (xxxix, 
14, 17),  would  probably  have  insured  a punishment  of 
the  severest  kind,  lie  seems  to  have  only  cast  him 
into  the  prison,  which  appears  to  have  been  in  his  house, 
or.  at  least,  under  his  control,  since  afterwards  prisoners 
are  related  to  have  been  put  ‘‘in  ward  [in]  the  house 
of  the  captain  of  the  executioners,  into  the  prison”  (xl, 
3),  and  simply  “in  ward  [in]  the  captain  of  the  execu- 
tioners’ house”  (xli,  10;  comp,  xl,  7).  The  prison  is  de- 
scribed as  “a  place  where  the  king’s  prisoners  [were] 
bound”  (xxxix,  20).  Here  the  hardest  time  of  Joseph’s 
period  of  probation  began.  lie  was  east  into  prison  on 
a false  accusation,  to  remain  there  for  at  least  two  years, 
and  perhaps  for  a much  longer  time.  At  first  he  was 
treated  with  severity;  this  we  learn  from  Psa.  cv,  “He 
sent  a man  before  them,  Joseph  [who]:  was  sold  for  a 
slave:  whose  feet  they  afflicted  with  the  fetter;  the 
iron  entered  into  his  soul”  (ver.  17,  18).  There  is  prob- 
ably here  a connection  between  “ fetter”  and  “ iron” 
(comp.  cxlix,N),  in  which  case  the  signification  of  the 
last  clause  would  be  “ the  iron  entered  into  him,”  mean- 
ing that  the  fetters  cut  his  feet  or  legs.  This  is  not  in- 
consistent with  the  statement  in  Genesis  that  the  keep- 
er of  the  prison  treated  Joseph  well  (xxxix,  21),  for  we 
are  not  justified  in  thence  inferring  that  he  was  kind 
from  the  first. 

In  the  prison,  as  in  Potiphar’s  house,  Joseph  was 
found  worthy  of  complete  trust,  and  the  keeper  of  the 
prison  placed  everything  under  his  control, God’s  espe- 
cial blessing  attending  his  honest  service.  After  a while 
Pharaoh  was  incensed  against  two  of  his  officers,  “ the 
chief  of  the  eup-bcarers"  (~’lj7'L;'2fn  1^),  and  “the 
chief  of  the  bakers”  (S^S'Xn  T^J),  and  east  them  into 
the  prison  where  Joseph  wa’s.  lit  re  the  chief  of  the 
executioners,  doubtless  a successor  of  Potiphar  (for,  had 
the  latter  been  convinced  of  Joseph’s  innocence,  he  j 
would  not  have  left  him  in  the  prison,  and  if  not  so  eon-  1 
vinced  be  would  not  have  trusted  him),  charged  Joseph 
to  serve  these  prisoners.  Like  Potiphar,  thev  were  “of- 
ficers” of  Pharaoh  (xl,2),and  though  it  may  he  a mis- 
take to  call  them  grandees,  their  easy  aceess’to  the  king 
would  give,  them  an  importance  that  explains  the  care 
taken  o|  them  by  the  chief  of  the  executioners.  Each 
dreamed  a prophetic  dream,  which  Joseph  correctly  in- 
terpreted, disclaiming  human  skill  and  acknowledging 
that  interpretations  were  of  God.  It  is  not  necessary 
here  to  discuss  in  detail  the  particulars  of  this  part  of 
Joseph's  history,  since  they  do  not  materially  affect  the 
lea  hug  events  of  his  life  * thev  are,  however,  very  in- 
teresting, from  their  perfect  agreement  with  the  man- 


ners of  the  ancient  Egyptians  as  represented  on  their 
monuments.  On  the  authority  of  Herodotus  and  oth- 
ers, it  was  long  denied  that  the  vine  grew  in  Egypt; 
and  if  so,  the  imagery  of  the  butler’s  dream  would  hard- 
ly have  been  appropriate.  Wilkinson,  however,  has 
shown  beyond  a question  that  vines  did  grow  in  Egypt, 
and  thus  not  only  removed  a doubt,  but  given  a positive 
confirmation  of  the  sacred  record  (Manners  of  the  Anc. 
Egypt,  ii,  152). 

The  butler,  whose  fate  was  auspicious,  promised  the 
young  Hebrew  to  employ  his  influence  to  procure  his 
restoration  to  the  free  air  of  day;  but  when  again  in 
the  enjoyment  of  his  “ butlership,”  “ he  forgat”  Joseph 
(xl).  13.0. 1885.  Pharaoh  himself,  however,  had  two 

dreams,  which  found  in  Joseph  a successful  expounder ; 
for  the  butler  remembered  the  skill  of  his  prison-com- 
panion, and  advised  his  royal  master  to  put  it  to  the 
test  in  his  own  case.  Pharaoh’s  dream,  as  interpreted 
by  Joseph,  foreboded  the  approach  of  a seven  years’ 
famine;  to  abate  the  evils  of  which  Joseph  recommend- 
ed that  some  “ discreet  and  wise  man”  shoidd  be  ehosen 
i and  set  in  full  power  over  the  land  of  Egypt.  The  mon- 
arch was  alarmed,  and  called  a council  of  bis  advisers. 
The  wisdom  of  Joseph  was  reeognised  as  of  divine  ori- 
gin and  supereminent  value ; and  the  king  and  his  min- 
isters (whence  it  appears  that  the  Egyptian  monarchy 
— at  Memphis — was  not  despotic,  but  constitutional)  re- 
solved that  Joseph  should  be  made  (to  borrow  a term 
from  Rome)  dictator  in  the  approaching  time  of  need. 
“And  Pharaoh  said  unto  Joseph,  Forasmuch  as  God 
hath  showed  thee  all  this,  there  is  none  so  discreet  and 
wise  as  thou  art.  Thou  shalt  be  over  ray  house,  and 
according  to  thy  word  shall  all  my  people  be  ruled  • 
only  in  the  throne  will  I be  greater  than  thou.  See,  I 
have  set  thee  over  all  the  land  of  Egypt.  And  Pharaoh 
took  off  his  ring  and  put  it  upon  Joseph’s  hand,  and  ar- 
rayed him  in  vestures  of  fine  linen,  and  put  a gold  chain 
about  his  neck;  and  he  made  him  to  ride  in  the  second 
chariot  which  he  had;  and  they  cried  before  him,  Bow 
the  knee.  [See  Abrecii.]  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  Jo- 
seph, I am  Pharaoh,  and  without  thee  shall  no  man  lift 
up  his  hand  or  foot  in  all  the  land  of  Egypt.  And  Pha- 
raoh called  Joseph’s  name  Zaphnath-paaneah  [saviour 
of  the  world;  comp.  Jablonskv,  Opusc.  i,  207  sq.];  and 
he  gave  him  to  wife  Asenath,  the  daughter  of  Poti- 
pherah,  priest  of  On.  And  Joseph  went  out  over  all 
the  land  of  Egypt”  (xli,  39  sq.).  The  monuments  show 
that  on  the  investiture  of  a high  official  in  Egypt,  one 
of  the  chief  ceremonies  was  the  putting  on  him  a collar 
of  gold  (see  Ancient  Egyptians,  pi.  80) ; the  other  par- 
ticulars, the  vestures  of  fine  linen  and  the  riding  in  the 
second  chariot,  are  equally  in  accordance  with  the  man- 
ners of  the  country.  It  has  been  supposed  that  Joseph 
was  taken  into  the  priestly  order,  and  thus  ennobled. 
The  Biblical  narrative  does  not  support  this  opinion, 
though  it  leaves  it  without  a doubt  that  in  reality,  if 
not  in  form  as  well,  the  highest  trust  and  the  proudest 
honors  of  the  state  were  conferred  on  one  so  recently  a 
Hebrew  slave.  The  age  of  Joseph  is  stated  to  have, 
been  thirty  years  at  the  time  of  this  promotion  (xli, 

| 4C).  B.C.  1883. 

3.  Seven  years  of  abundance  afforded  Joseph  opportu- 
nity to  carry  into  effect  such  plans  as  secured  an  ample 
provision  against  the  seven  years  of  need.  The  famine 
came,  but  it  found  a prepared  people.  The  representa- 
tions of  the  monuments,  which  show  that  the  contents 
of  the  granaries  were  accurately  noted  by  the  scribes 
when  they  were  filled,  well  illustrate  this  part  of  the 
history.  See  Granary.  The  visitation  was  not  mere- 
ly local,  for  “the  famine  was  over  all  the  face  of  the 
earth;”  “and  all  countries  came  into  Egypt  to  Joseph 
to  buy  corn”  (ver.  56,  57).  The  expressions  here  used, 
however,  do  not  require  us  to  suppose  that  the  famine 
I extended  beyond  the  countries  around  Egypt,  sueh  as 
Palestine,  Syria,  and  Arabia,  as  well  as  some  part  of  Af- 
rica, although  of  course  it  may  have  been  more  widely 
I experienced.  It  may  be  observed,  that  although  fam- 


JOSEPH 


1015 


JOSEPH 


ines  in  Egypt  depend  immediately  upon  the  failure  of 
the  inundation,  and  in  other  countries  upon  the  failure 
of  ram,  j’et  that,  as  the  rise  of  the  Nile  is  caused  hy 
heavy  rains  in  Ethiopia,  an  extremely  dry  season  there 
and  in  Palestine  would  produce  the  result  described  in 
the  sacred  narrative.  It  must  also  be  recollected  that 
Egypt  was  anciently  the  granary  of  neighboring  coun- 
tries, and  that  a famine  there  would  cause  first  scarcity, 
and  then  famine,  around.  Famines  are  not  very  unfre- 
quent in  the  history  of  Egypt;  but  the  famous  seven 
years’  famine  in  the  reign  of  the  Fatiraite  Caliph  El- 
Mustansir-billali  is  the  only  known  parallel  to  that  of 
Joseph.  See  Famine.  Early  in  the  time  of  famine, 
Joseph’s  brethren  came  to  buy  corn,  a part  of  the  his- 
tory which  we  mention  here  only  as  indicating  the  lib- 
eral policy  of  the  governor  of  Egypt,  by  which  the  store- 
houses were  opened  to  all  buyers,  of  whatever  nation 
they  were. 

After  the  famine  had  lasted  for  a time,  apparently  two 
years,  there  was  “ no  bread  in  all  the  land ; for  the  fam- 
ine [was]  very  sore,  so  that  the  land  of  Egypt  and 
[all]  the  land  of  Canaan  fainted  by  reason  of  the  famine. 
And  Joseph  gathered  up  all  the  money  that  was  found 
in  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  in  the  land  of  Canaan,  for  the 
corn  which  they  bought ; and  Joseph  brought  the  money 
into  fPharaoh’s  house”  (xlvii,  13,  14).  When  all  the 
money  of  Egypt  and  Canaan  was  exhausted,  barter  be- 
came necessary.  Joseph  then  obtained  all  the  cattle  of 
Egypt,  and  in  the  next  year,  all  the  land,  except  that 
of  the  priests,  and  apparently,  as  a consequence,  the 
Egyptians  themselves.  He  demanded,  however,  only  a 
fifth  part  of  the  produce  as  Pharaoh's  right.  It  has 
been  attempted  to  trace  this  enactment  of  Joseph  in  the 
fragments  of  Egyptian  history  preserved  by  profane 
writers,  but  the  rcsidt  has  not  been  satisfactory.  Even 
were  the  latter  sources  trustworthy  as  to  the  early  pe- 
riod of  Egyptian  history,  it  would  be  difficult  to  deter- 
mine the  age  referred  to,  as  the  actions  of  at  least  two 
kings  are  ascribed  by  the  Greeks  to  Sesostris,  the  king 
particularized.  Herodotus  says  that,  according  to  the 
Egyptians,  Sesostris  “made  a division  of  the  soil  of 
Egypt  among  the  inhabitants,  assigning  square  plots  of 
ground  of  equal  size  to  all,  and  obtaining  his  chief  reve- 
nue from  the  rent  which  the  holders  were  required  to 
pay  him  every  year”  (ii,  109).  Elsewhere  lie  speaks  of 
the  priests  as  having  no  expenses,  being  supported  by 
the  property  of  the  temples  (ii,  37),  hut  he  does  not  as- 
sign to  Sesostris,  as  has  been  rashly  supposed,  the  ex- 
emption from  taxation  that  we  may  reasonably  infer. 
Diodorus  Siculus  ascribes  the  division  of  Egypt  into 
nomes  to  Sesostris,  whom  he  calls  Sesoosis.  Taking 
into  consideration  the  general  character  of  the  infor- 
mation given  by  Herodotus  respecting  the  history  of 
Egypt  at  periods  remote  from  his  own  time,  we  arc  not 
justified  in  supposing  anything  more  than  that  some 
tradition  of  an  ancient  allotment  of  the  soil  by  the  crown 
among  the  population  was  current  when  he  visited 
the  country.  The  testimony  of  Diodorus  is  of  far  less 
weight. 

There  is  a notice,  in  an  ancient  Egyptian  inscription, 
of  a famine  which  has  been  supposed  to  be  that  of 
Joseph.  The  inscription  is  in  a tomb  at  Beni  Hasan, 
and  records  of  Amenl,  a governor  of  a district  of  Upper 
Egypt,  that  when  there  were  years  of  famine,  his  dis- 
trict was  supplied  with  food.  This  was  in  the  time  of 
Sescrtesen  I,  of  the  twelfth  dynasty.  It  has  been  sup- 
posed by  Bunsen  {Egypt's  Place , iii,334)  that  this  must 
be  Joseph’s  famine ; but  not  only  are  the  particulars  of 
the  record  inapplicable  to  that  instance,  but  the  calami- 
ty it  relates  was  never  unusual  in  Egypt,  as  its  ancient 
inscriptions  and  modem  history  equally  testify. 

Joseph’s  policy  towards  the  subjects  of  Pharaoh  is 
important  in  reference  to  forming  an  estimate  of  his 
character.  It  displays  the  resolution  and  breadth  of 
viewr  that  mark  his  whole  career.  He  perceived  a great 
advantage  to  be  gained,  and  he  lost  no  part  of  it.  He 
put  all  Egypt  under  Pharaoh.  First  the  money,  then 


the  cattle,  last  of  all  the  land,  and  the  Egyptians  them- 
selves, became  the  property  of  the  sovereign,  and  that, 
too,  by  the  voluntary  act  of  the  people  without  any 
pressure.  This  being  effected,  he  exercised  a great  act 
of  generosity,  and  required  only  a fifth  of  the  produce 
as  a recognition  of  the  rights  of  the  crown.  Of  the  wis- 
dom of  this  policy  there  can  be  no  doubt.  Its  justice 
can  hardly  be  questioned  when  it  is  borne  in  mind  that 
the  Egyptians  were  not  forcibly  deprived  of  their  lib- 
erties, and  that  when  these  had  been  given  up  they  were 
at  once  restored.  We  do  not  know  all  the  circumstances ; 
but  if,  as  wre  may  reasonably  suppose,  the  people  were 
warned  of  the  famine,  and  yet  made  no  preparation  dur- 
ing the  years  of  overflowing  abundance,  the  government 
had  a clear  claim  upon  its  subjects  for  having  taken  pre- 
cautions they  had  neglected.  In  any  case  it  may  have 
been  desirable  to  make  a new  allotment  of  land,  and  to 
reduce  an  unequal  system  of  taxation  to  a simple  claim 
to  a fifth  of  the  produce.  We  have  no  evidence  wheth- 
er Joseph  were  in  this  matter  divinely  aided,  but  we 
cannot  doubt  that  if  not  he  acted  in  accord  with  a judg- 
ment of  great  clearness  in  distinguishing  good  and  evil. 

4.  We  have  now  to  consider  the  conduct  of  Joseph  at 
this  time  towards  his  brethren  and  his  father.  Early  in 
the  time  of  famine,  which  prevailed  equally  in  Canaan 
and  Eg)rpt,  Jacob  reproved  his  helpless  sons  and  sent 
them  to  Egypt,  where  he  knew  there  was  corn  to  be 
bought.  Benjamin  alone  he  kept  with  him.  Joseph 
was  now  governor,  an  Egyptian  in  habits  and  speech, 
for  like  all  men  of  large  mind  he  had  suffered  no  scruples 
of  prejudice  to  make  him  a stranger  to  the  people  he 
ruled.  In  his  exalted  station  he  labored  with  the  zeal 
that  he  showed  in  all  his  various  charges,  presiding 
himself  at  the  sale  of  corn.  The}’  had,  of  necessity,  to 
appear  before  Joseph,  whose  license  for  the  purchase  of 
corn  was  indispensable.  Joseph  had  probably  expected 
to  see  them,  and  he  seems  to  have  formed  a deliberate 
plan  of  action.  Ilis  conduct  has  brought  on  him  the  al- 
ways ready  charges  of  those  who  would  rather  impeach 
than  study  the  Bible,  and  even  friends  of  that  sacred 
book  have  hardly  in  this  case  done  Joseph  full  justice 
(Niemeyer,  Charalt.  ii,  3G6;  Henser,  Piss,  non  inlnnnani- 
ter  sed  prudentissime  Josephum  cum  fratribus  fecisse, 
Hal.  1773).  Joseph’s  main  object  appears  to  have  been 
to  make  his  brothers  feel  and  recognise  their  guilt  in 
their  conduct  towards  him.  For  this  purpose  suffering, 
then  as  well  as  now,  was  indispensable.  Accordingly, 
Joseph  feigned  not  to  know’  his  brothers,  charged  them 
with  being  spies,  threatened  them  with  imprisonment, 
and  allowed  them  to  return  home  to  fetch  their  youn- 
ger brother,  as  a proof  of  their  veracity,  only  on  condition 
that  one  of  them  should  remain  behind  in  chains,  with 
a prospect  of  death  before  him  should  not  their  words 
be  verified.  Then  it  v’as,  and  not  before,  that  “ they 
said  one  to  another,  We  are  verily  guilty  concerning  our 
brother,  in  that  we  saw  the  anguish  of  his  soul  and 
would  not  hear*,  therefore  is  this  distress  come  upon  us. 
And  Reuben  said,  Spake  l not  unto  you,  saying,  Do  not 
sin  against  the  child,  and  ye  would  not  hear?  therefore, 
behold,  also  his  blood  is  required”  (xlii,  21).  Upon  this, 
after  weeping  bitterly,  he  by  common  agreement  bound 
his  brother  Simeon,  and  left  him  in  custody.  How 
deeply  concerned  Joseph  was  for  his  family,  how  true 
and  affectionate  a heart  he  had,  may  be  learned  from 
the  words  which  escape  from  the  brothers  in  their  en- 
treaty that  Jacob  would  allow  Benjamin  to  go  into 
Egypt,  as  required  by  Joseph:  “The  man  asked  us 
straitlv  of  our  state  and  of  our  kindred,  saying,  Is  your 
father  yet  alive?  have  ye  another  brother?”  (xliii,  7). 

At  length  Jacob  consents  to  Benjamin’s  going  in  com- 
pany with  his  brothers:  “And  God  Almighty  give  you 
mercy  before  the  man,  that  he  may  send  away  your  oth- 
er brother  and  Benjamin.  If  I be  bereaved  of  my  chiF- 
dren,  I am  bereaved”  (vcr.  14).  Thus  provided,  with  a 
present  consisting  of  balm,  honey,  spices,  and  myrrh, 
nuts  and  almonds,  and  with  double  money  in  their 
hands  (double;  in  order  that  they  might  repay  the  sum 


JOSEPH 


1016 


JOSEPH 


which  Joseph  had  caused  to  be  put  into  each  man’s 
sack  at  their  departure,  if,  as  Jacob  supposed, “it  was 
an  oversight”),  they  went  again  down  to  Egypt  and 
stood  before  Joseph  (xliii,  15);  and  there,  too,  stood 
Benjamin,  Joseph’s  beloved  brother.  The  required 
pledge  of  truthfulness  was  given.  If  it  is  asked  why 
such”  a pledge  was  demanded,  since  the  giving  of  it 
caused  pain  to  Jacob,  the  answer  may  be  thus:  Joseph 
knew  not  how  to  demean  himself  towards  his  family 
until  he  ascertained  its  actual  condition.  That  knowl- 
edge lie  could  hardly  be  certain  he  had  gained  from 
the  mere  words  of  men  who  had  spared  his  life  only  to 
sell  himself  into  slavery.  How  had  these  wicked  men 
behaved  towards  his  venerable  father?  His  beloved 
brother  Benjamin,  was  he  safe  ? or  hail  he  suffered  from 
their  jealousy  and  malice  the  worse  fate  with  which  he 
himself  had  been  threatened  ? Nothing  but  the  sight 
of  Benjamin  could  answer  these  questions  and  resolve 
these  details. 

Benjamin  had  come,  and  immediately  a natural  change 
took  place  in  Joseph’s  conduct : the  brother  began  to 
claim  his  rights  in  Joseph’s  bosom.  Jacob  was  safe, 
and  Benjamin  was  safe.  Joseph’s  heart  melted  at  the 
sight  of  Benjamin:  “And  he  said  to  the  ruler  of  his 
house,  Bring  these  men  home,  and  slay  and  make  ready, 
for  these  men  shall  dine  with  me  at  noon”  (xliii,  16). 
But  guilt  is  always  the  ready  parent  of  fear  ; accord- 
ingly, the  brothers  expected  nothing  but  being  reduced 
to  slavery.  When  taken  to  their  own  brother’s  house, 
they  imagined  they  were  being  entrapped.  A colloquy 
ensued  between  them  and  Joseph’s  steward,  whence  it 
appeared  that  the  money  put  into  their  sacks,  to  which 
they  now  attributed  their  peril,  was  in  truth  a present 
from  Joseph,  designed,  after  his  own  brotherly  manner, 
to  aid  his  family  in  their  actual  necessities.  The  stew- 
ard said,  “ Peace  be  to  yon ; fear  not;  your  God  and  the  [ 
God  of  your  father  hath  given  you  the  treasure  in  your 
sacks.  I had  your  money”  (ver.  23). 

Noon  came,  and  with  it  Joseph,  whose  first  question 
regarded  home : “ He  asked  them  of  their  welfare,  and 
said,  Is  your  father  well,  the  old  man  of  whom  ye  spake  ? 
is  he  yet  alive?  And  he  lifted  up  his  eyes  and  saw  his 
brother  Benjamin,  his  mother’s  son,  and  said,  Is  this 
your  younger  brother?  And  he  said,  God  be  gracious 
unto  thee,  my  son !”  “And  Joseph  made  haste,  for  his 
bowels  did  yearn  upon  his  brother,  and  he  sought  where 
to  weep;  and  he  entered  into  his  chamber,  and  wept 
there.”  Does  this  look  like  harshness? 

The  connection  brings  into  view  an  Egyptian  cus- 
tom, which  is  of  more  than  ordinary  importance,  in  con- 
sequence of  its  being  adopted  in  the  Jewish  polity: 
“And  they  set  on  (food)  for  him  by  himself  (Joseph), 
and  for  them  by  themselves  (the  brethren),  and  for  the 
Egyptians  which  did  eat  with  them,  by  themselves : be- 
cause the  Egyptians  might  not  eat  bread  with  the  He- 
brews; for  that  is  an  abomination  with  the  Egyptians” 
(ver.  32).  This  passage  is  also  interesting,  as  proving 
that  Joseph  had  not,  in  his  princely  grandeur,  become 
ashamed  of  his  origin,  nor  consented  to  receive  adoption 
into  a strange  nation:  he  was  still  a Hebrew,  waiting, 
like  Moses  after  him,  for  the  proper  season  to  use  his 
power  for  the  good  of  his  own  people. 

Other  customs  appear  in  this  interesting  narrative: 
“And  they  (the  brothers)  sat  before  him  (Joseph),^ 
first-born  according  In  his  birthright,  and  the  youngest 
according  to  his  youth.”  “And  he  sent  messes  (deiica-  I 
cies)  unto  them  from  before  him;  but  Benjamin’s  mess  ' 
was  five  times  so  much  as  any  of  theirs”  (ver.  32,  33). 1 
Fear  had  now  given  place  to'  wonder,  and  wonder  at 
length  issued  in  joy  and  mirth  (comp.  ver.  18,  33, 34). 
The  scenes  of  the  Egyptian  tombs  show  us  that  it  was 
the  custom  for  each  person  to  eat  singly,  particularly 
among  the  great ; that  guests  were  placed  according  to 
their  right  of  precedence,  and  that  it  was  usual  to  drink 
freely,  men  and  even  women  being  represented  as  over- 
powered with  wine,  probably  as  an  evidence  of  the  lib- 
erality of  the  entertainer.  See  Banquet. 


| Joseph,  apparently  with  a view  to  ascertain  how  far 
his  brethren  were  faithful  to  their  father,  hit  upon  a 
plan  which  would  in  its  issue  serve  to  show  whether 
they  would  make  any,  and  what  sacrifice,  in  order  to 
| fulfil  their  solemn  promise  of  restoring  Benjamin  in  safe- 
ty to  Jacob.  Accordingly,  he  orders  not  only  that  every 
man’s  money  (as  before)  should  be  put  in  his  sack’s 
mouth,  but  also  that  his  “silver  cup,  in  which  my  lord 
drinketh,  and  whereby  he  divineth,”  should  be  put  in 
the  sack’s  mouth  of  the  youngest.  The  brethren  leave, 
but  are  soon  overtaken  by  Joseph’s  steward,  who  charges 
them  with  having  surreptitiously  carried  off'  this  costly 
and  highly-valued  vessel.  They,  on  their  part,  vehe- 
mently repel  the  accusation,  adding,  “ with  whomsoever 
I of  thy  servants  it  be  found,  both  let  him  die,  and  we 
also  will  be  my  lord’s  bondmen.”  A search  is  made, 
and  the  cup  is  found  in  Benjamin’s  sack.  Accordingly 
they  return  to  the  city.  And  now  comes  the  hour  of 
trial : Would  they  purchase  their  own  liberation  by  sur- 
rendering Benjamin  ? After  a most  touching  interview, 
in  which  they  prove  themselves  worthy  and  faithful, 
Joseph  declares  himself  unable  any  longer  to  withstand 
the  appeal  of  natiuvl  affection.  On  this  occasion  Ju- 
dah, who  is  the  spokesman,  shows  the  deepest  regard  to 
his  aged  father’s  feelings,  and  entreats  for  the  liberation 
of  Benjamin  even  at  the  price  of  his  own  liberty.  In 
the  whole  of  literature  we  know  of  nothing  more  sim- 
ple, natural,  true,  and  impressive ; nor,  while  passages 
of  this  kind  stand  in  the  Pentateuch,  can  we  even  un- 
derstand what  is  meant  by  terming  that  collection  of 
writings  “ the  Hebrew  national  epic,”  or  regarding  it  as 
an  aggregation  of  historical  legends.  If  here  we  have 
not  history,  we  can  in  no  case  be  sure  that  history  is  be- 
fore us  (chap.  xliv). 

Most  natural  and  impressive  is  the  scene  also  which 
ensues,  in  which  Joseph,  after  informing  his  brethren 
who  he  was,  and  inquiring,  first  of  all,  “ Is  my  father 
alive?”  expresses  feelings  free  from  the  slightest  taint 
of  revenge,  and  even  shows  how,  mider  divine  Provi- 
dence, the  conduct  of  his  brothers  had  issued  in  good — 
“God  sent  me  before  you  to  preserve  a posterity  in  the 
earth,  and  to  save  your  lives  by  a great  deliverance.” 
Five  years  had  yet  to  ensue  in  which  “there  would  be 
neither  earing  nor  harvest,”  and  therefore  the  brethren 
were  directed  to  return  home  and  bring  Jacob  down  to 
Egypt  with  all  speed.  “ And  he  fell  upon  his  brother 
Benjamin’s  neck  and  wept : and  Benjamin  wept  upon 
his  neck.  Moreover,  he  kissed  all  his  brethren  and 
wept  upon  them;  and  after  that  his  brethren  talked 
with  him”  (xlv,  14,  15). 

The  news  of  these  striking  events  was  carried  to  Pha- 
raoh, who,  being  pleased  at  Joseph’s  conduct,  gave  direc- 
tions that  Jacob  and  his  family  should  come  forthwith 
into  Egypt : “I  will  give  you  the  good  of  the  land  of 
Egypt,  and  ye  shall  eat  the  fat  of  the  land ; regard  not 
your  stuff,  for  the  good  of  all  the  land  is  yours.”  The 
brethren  departed, being  well  provided  for : “And  to  his 
father  Joseph  sent  ten  asses  laden  with  the  good  things 
of  Egypt,  and  ten  she-asses  laden  with  com,  and  bread, 
and  meat  for  his  father  by  the  way.”  The  intelligence 
which  they  bore  to  their  father  was  of  such  a nature 
that  “Jacob’s  heart  fainted,  for  he  believed  them  not.” 
When,  however,  he  had  recovered  from  the  thus  natu- 
rally told  effects  of  his  surprise,  the  venerable  patriarch 
said,  “Enough;  Joseph,  my  son,  is  yet  alive:  I will  go 
and  see  him  before  I die”  (xlv,  26,  28).  Accordingly  Ja- 
cob and  his  family,  to  the  number  of  threescore  and  ten 
souls,  go  down  to  Egypt,  and  by  the  express  efforts  of 
Joseph,  are  allowed  to  settle  in  the  district  of  Goshen, 
where  Joseph  met  his  father : “And  he  fell  on  his  neck, 
and  wept  on  his  neck  a good  while.”  There  Joseph 
“ nourished  his  father  and  his  brethren,  and  ail  his  fa- 
ther's household,  with  bread,  according  to  their  fami- 
lies” (xlvii,  12).  B.C.  1874. 

5.  Joseph  had  now  to  pass  through  the  mournful 
scenes  which  attend  on  the  death  and  burial  of  a father 
(Gen.  1, 1-21).  B.C.  1856.  Having  had  Jacob  embalm- 


JOSEPH 


1017 


JOSEPH 


ed,  and  seen  the  rites  of  mourning  fully  observed,  the 
faithful  and  affectionate  son — leave  being  obtained  of 
the  monarch — proceeded  into  the  land  of  Canaan,  in  or- 
der, agreeably  to  a promise  which  the  patriarch  had  ex- 
acted (Gen.  xlvii,  29-31),  to  lay  the  old  man’s  bones  with 
those  of  his  fathers,  in  “the  field  of  Epliron  the  Hit- 
tite.”  Having  performed  with  long  and  bitter  mourn- 
ing Jacob’s  funeral  rites,  Joseph  returned  into  Egypt. 
The  last  recorded  act  of  his  life  forms  a most  becoming 
close.  After  the  death  of  their  father,  his  brethren,  un- 
able, like  all  guilty  people,  to  forget  their  criminality, 
and  characteristically  finding  it  difficult  to  think  that 
Joseph  had  really  forgiven  them,  grew  afraid,  now  they 
were  in  his  power,  that  he  would  take  an  opportunity  of 
inflicting  some  punishment  on  them.  They  according- 
ly go  into  his  presence,  and  in  imploring  terms  and  an 
abject  manner  entreat  his  forgiveness.  “Fear  not” — 
this  is  his  noble  reply — “ I will  nourish  you  and  your 
little  ones.” 

6.  By  his  Egyptian  wife  Asenath,  daughter  of  the 
high-priest  of  Heliopolis,  Joseph  had  two  sons,  Manas- 
seh  and  Ephraim  (Gen.  xli,  50  sq.),  whom  Jacob  adopt- 
ed (xlviii,  5),  and  who  accordingly  took  their  place 
among  the  heads  of  the  twelve  tribes  of  Israel. 

Joseph  lived  a hundred  and  ten  years,  kind  and  gen- 
tle in  his  affections  to  the  last;  for  we  are  told,  “The 
children'  of  Machir,  the  son  of  Manasseh,  were  brought 
up  upon  Joseph’s  knees”  (1,  23).  Having  obtained  a 
promise  from  his  brethren  that  when  the  time  came,  as 
he  assured  them  it  would  eome,  that  God  should  visit 
them,  and  “ bring  them  unto  the  land  which  he  sware 
to  Abraham,  to  Isaac,  and  to  Jacob,”  they  would  carry 
up  his  bones  out  of  Egypt,  Joseph  at  length  “died,  and 
they  embalmed  him,  and  he  was  put  in  a coffin”  (1,  2G). 
B.C.  1802.  This  promise  was  religiously  fulfilled,  llis 
descendants,  after  carrying  the  eorpse  about  with  them 


“Joseph's  Tomb." 


in  their  wanderings,  at  length  put  it  in  its  final  resting- 
place  in  Shechem,  in  a parcel  of  ground  that  Jacob 
bought  of  the  sons  of  Hamor,  which  became  the  inheri- 
tance of  the  children  of  Joseph  (Josh,  xxiv,  32).  A tomb 
which  probably  represents  the  same  spot  is  still  shown 
to  travellers  in  the  vicinity  of  Jacob’s  Well  (Hackett’s 
Illustrations , p.  197).  It  is  a flat-roofed  rectangular 
building  surmounted  by  a dome,  under  which  is  pointed 
out  the  real  tomb,  in  shape  like  a covered  wagon  (Wil- 
son, Bible  Lands , ii,  GO). 

The  history  of  Joseph’s  posterity  is  given  in  the  arti- 
cles devoted  to  the  tribes  of  Epiiuaim  and  Manasseh. 
Sometimes  these  tribes  are  spoken  of  under  the  name  of 
Joseph  (Josh,  xiv,  4 ; xvii,  14, 17 ; xviii,  5;  Judg.  i,  23, 
35,  etc.),  which  is  even  given  to  the  whole  Israelitish  na- 
tion (Psa.  Ixxx,  1 ; lxxxi,  5 ; Amos  v,  1 5 ; vi,  G).  Ephra- 
im is,  however,  the  common  name  of  his  descendants, 
for  the  division  of  Manasseh  gave  almost  the  whole  po- 
litical weight  to  the  brother-tribe  (Psa.  lxxviii,  67; 
Ezek.  xxxvii,  16,  19;  Zech.  x,  G).  That  gr°at  people 
seems  to  have  inherited  all  Joseph’s  ability  vith  Aone 
of  his  goodness,  and  the  very  knowledge  of  his  power  in 
Egypt,  instead  of  stimulating  his  offspring  to  follow  in 
his  steps,  appears  only  to  have  constantly  drawn  them 
into  a hankering  after  that  forbidden  land  which  began 
when  Jeroboam  introduced  the  calves,  and  ended  only 
when  a treasonable  alliance  laid  Samaria  in  ruins  and 
sent  the  ten  tribes  into  captivity. 

7.  The  character  of  Joseph  is  wholly  composed  of 
great  materials,  and  therefore  needs  not  to  be  minutely 
portrayed.  We  trace  in  it  very  little  of  that  balance  of 
good  and  evil,  of  strength  and  weakness,  that  marks 
most  things  human,  and  do  not  anywhere  distinctly  dis- 
cover the  results  of  the  conflict  of  motives  that  generally 
occasions  such  great  difficulty  in  judging  men’s  actions. 
We  have  as  full  an  account  of  Joseph  as  of  Abraham 
and  Jacob,  a fuller  one  than  of  Isaac ; and  if  we  compare 
their  histories,  Joseph’s  character  is  the  least  marked 
by  wrong  or  indecision.  His  first  quality  seems  to  have 
been  the  greatest  resolution.  He  not  only  believed 
faithfully,  but  could  endure  patiently,  and  could  com- 
mand equally  his  good  and  evil  passions.  Hence  his 
strong  sense  of  duty,  his  zealous  work,  his  strict  justice, 
his  clear  discrimination  of  good  and  evil.  Like  all  men 
of  vigorous  character,  he  loved  power,  but  when  he  had 
gained  it  he  used  it  with  the  greatest  generosity.  He 
seems  to  have  striven  to  get  men  unconditionally  in  his 
power  that  he  might  be  the  means  of  good  to  them. 
Generosity  in  conferring  benefits,  as  well  as  in  forgiv- 
ing injuries,  is  one  of  his  distinguishing  characteristics. 
With  this  strength  was  united  the  deepest  tenderness. 
He  -was  easily  moved  to  tears,  even  weeping  at  the  first 
sight  of  his  brethren  after  they  had  sold  him.  His  love 
for  his  father  and  Benjamin  was  not  enfeebled  by  years 
of  separation,  nor  by  his  great  station.  The  wise  man 
was  still  the  same  as  the  true  youth.  These  great  qual- 
ities explain  his  power  of  governing  and  administering, 
and  his  extraordinary  flexibility,  which  enabled  him  to 
suit  himself  to  each  new  position  in  life.  The  last  trait 
to  make  up  this  great  character  was  modesty,  the  natu- 
ral result  of  the  others. 

In  the  history  of  the  chosen  race  Joseph  occupies  a 
very  high  place  as  an  instrument  of  Providence.  He 
was  “sent  before”  his  people,  as  he  himself  knew,  to 
preserve  them  in  the  terrible  famine,  and  to  settle  them 
where  they  could  multiply  and  prosper  in  the  interval 
before  the  iniquity  of  the  Canaanites  was  full.  In  the 
latter  days  of  Joseph’s  life,  he  is  the  leading  character 
among  the  Hebrews.  He  makes  his  father  come  into 
Egypt,  and  directs  the  settlement.  He  protects  his 
kinsmen.  Dying,  he  reminds  them  of  the  promise, 
charging  them  to  take  his  bones  with  them.  Blessed 
with  many  revelations,  he  is  throughout  a God-taught 
leader  of  his  people.  In  the  N.  T.  Joseph  is  only  men- 
tioned ; yet  the  striking  particulars  of  the  persecution 
and  sale  by  his  brethren,  his  resisting  temptation,  his 
great  degradation  and  yet  greater  exaltation,  the  saving 


JOSEPH 


JOSEPH  1018 


of  his  people  by  his  hand,  and  the  confounding  of  his 
enemies,  seem  to  indicate  that  he  was  a type  of  our 
Lord.  He  also  connects  the  Patriarchal  with  the  Gos- 
pel dispensation,  as  an  instance  of  the  exercise  of  some 
of  the  highest  Christian  virtues  under  the  less  distinct 
manifestation  of  the  divine  will  granted  to  the  fathers. 
— Kitto;  Smith. 

S.  For  further  discussion  of  the  events  of  Joseph’s 
history,  see  AVolfenb.  Fragment,  p.  30;  Less,  Geschichte 
dcr  Jiel.  i,  207 , J.  T.  Jacobi,  Sammtf.  Schrift.  part  3 ; 
lless,  Gesch.  (ter  Patriarch,  ii,  324 ; Niemever,  Char  ah. 

ii.  340;  Allgem.  Welt  hist,  ii,  332;  Heeren,  Ideen,  ii,  551 ; 
Jablonski,  Opusc.  i,  207;  Gesenius,  Thes.  liebr.  p.  1181; 
Hammer,  l).  Osman.  Reich,  ii,  83;  Hengstenberg,  Mos. 
and  .Eg.  p.  30;  J.  B.  Burcardi,  in  the  Mus.  Heir.  I.  iii, 
■355;  Voigt,  in  the  Brein.  unit  verd.  Biblioth.  v,  599; 
Bauer,  Ileb.  Gesch.  i,  181 ; Ewald,  Isr.  Gesch.  i,  404 ; Do- 
dcrlcin,  Thtol.  Biblioth.  iv,  717;  Rosenmiiller,  Alterth. 

iii,  310;  Lengerke,  Kendan,  i,  203;  Otho,  Lex.  Rabb.  p. 

331;  Herbelot,  Bib/.  Orient,  ii,  332;  Kitto,  Daily  Bible 
Illust.;  Kurtz,  Hist,  of  the  Old  Covenant. ; Stanley,  Hist, 
of  the  Jewish  Church ; Adamson,  Joseph  and  his  Brethren 
(Loud.  1814);  Edelman,  Sermons  on  the  Hist,  of  Joseph 
(Loud.  1839);  Leighton,  Lectures  on  Hist,  of  J.  (Lond. 
1848) ; Plumptre,  Hist,  of  Joseph  (Lond.  1848) ; Randall, 
Lectures  on  Hist,  of  J.  (Lond.  1852) ; AVardlaw,  Hist,  of 
Joseph  (new  cd.  Lond.  1851);  Gibson,  Lectures  on  Hist, 
of  J.  (Lond.  1853) ; Overton,  Lectures  on  Life  of  Joseph 
(London,  1800).  Treatises  on  special  points  are  the  fol- 
lowing : Iloppc,  De  philosophia  Josephi  (Helmst.  1700) ; 
A Review  of  the  Life  and  Administration  of  Joseph 
(London,  1743) ; J.  B.  Burckhard,  De  criminibus  Josepho 
impact  is  (Basil.  1740);  An  said  us,  Josephi  religio  vindi- 
cuta  ( Brix.  1747) ; Trigland,  De  Josepho  adorato  (L.  B. 
1750) ; Winkler,  Fitters,  einiger  Schwierigk.  vom  Jos . (in 
his  Schriftsteller,  iii,  1) ; Hcuser,  De  non  inhumaniter  Jo- 
sephum  fecisse  (Halle,  1773);  Kiichlcr,  Quare  Josephus 
patrem  non  de  se  certiorem  fecerit  (Leucop.  1798);  Nic- 
olai, De.  serris  Josephi  medicis  (Ilelrast.  1752) ; Piderib, 
De  nomine  Josephi  in  .Egypt o (Mark  1708-9);  Reinec- 
eius,  De  nomine  n:rs  (Weisscnf.  1725) ; Schro- 

der, De  Josephi  laudibus  (in  Schbnfeld’s  Vita  Jacobi, 
Marb.  1713):  A'on  Seclen,  De  Josepho  xEgyptiorum  rec- 
tore  ( Lub.  1742);  T.  Smith,  Hist,  of  Joseph  in  connec- 
tion with  Eg.  Antiquities  (Lond.  1858);  AAraltcr,  De  Jo- 
sepho lapide  Israelis  (llersf.  1734);  Wunschald,  De  cog- 
nomine  Josephi  .Egypt iaco  (AA’lttcnb.  1009).  Sec  Ja- 
coii. 

2.  The  father  of  Igal,  which  latter  was  the  Issachar- 
ite  “spy”  to  explore  Canaan  (Numb,  xiii,  7).  B C ante 
1G57. 

3.  The  second  named  of  the  sons  of  Asaph,  appointed 
head  of  the  lirst  division  of  sacred  musicians  bv  David 
(I  Chron.  xxv,  2,  9).  B.C.  1014, 

4.  The  son  of  Julian,  and  father  of  Judah  or  Adaiah, 
among  Christ’s  maternal  ancestors,  but  unmentioned  in 
the  O.  T.  (Luke  iii,  30).  B.C.  ante  870. 

5.  Son  of  Shebaniali,  and  one  of  the  chief  priests  con- 
temporary with  Jehoiakim  (Noli,  xii,  14).  B.C.  post 
530. 

6.  One  of  the  “sons”  of  Bani  who  divorced  his  Gen- 
tile wife  after  the  exile  (Ezra  x,  42).  B.C.  459. 

7-  J lie  soil  of  Judah,  and  father  of  Scmei,  maternal 
ancestors  of  Jesus  (Luke  iii,  20);  probably  the  same 
with  Scum -uamaii,  the  son  of  Obadiah,  and  father  of 
Sl.emaial.  (1  Cl, run.  iii,  21,  92).  B.C.  between  530  and 


8.  The  sou  of  Mattathiah,  and  father  of  Jan n a, 
ternnl  ancestors  of  ( hrist,  unnieiitioncd  in  the  Old '1 
(Luke  iii,  2 1 ).  ID  ’.  considerably  post  400.  See  on 
and  Nos.  4 and  7,  Genealogy  ok  Jesus  CitmsT. 

9.  (Tuwr//0.)  Son  of  ( Iziel,  and  father  of  On,  an 
cestor  of  Judith  (Judith  viii,  t). 

10.  A young  man  of  high  character,  son  of  Tol 
and  nephew  of  the  Jewish  high-priest  Onias  II  wl 
avarice  he  rebuked,  but  prevented  its  evil  consequei 


by  propitiating  Ptolemy,  and  becoming  the  collector  of 
his  taxes.  His  history  is  given  at  considerable  length 
by  Josephus  (Ant.  xii,  4,  2-10),  including  his  uninten- 
tional marriage  with  his  own  niece,  by  whom  lie  had  a 
son  named  Hvreanus. 

11.  (“I<5<T>/0of.)  Son  of  Zacliarias,  left  with  Azarias 
as  general  of  the  Jewish  troops  by  Judas  Alaccabaeus, 
and  defeated  by  Gorgias,  B.C.  cir.  104  (I  Macc.  v,  8, 50, 
00 ; Josephus,  .4  nt.  xii,  8,  0). 

12.  (’ \d)<Ti]TTOQ .)  In  2 Macc.  viii,  22;  x,  19,  JosepJi 
is  named  among  the  brethren  of  Judas  Maccabaeus  ap- 
parently in  place  of  John  (Ewald,  Gesch.  iv, 384,  note; 
Grimm,  ad  2 Macc.  viii,  22).  The  confusion  of  'Uodv- 
vtfg,  ’hocn'iip,  ’hooijc  is  well  seen  in  the  various  readings 
in  Matt,  xiii,  55.  See  Joses. 

13.  Uncle  of  Herod  the  Great,  who  left  him  in  charge 
when  he  went  to  plead  his  cause  before  Antony,  with 
injunctions  to  put  Mariamne  to  death  in  case  he  never 
returned;  but  this  order,  being  disclosed  to  Mariamne, 
led  to  Joseph’s  death  by  command  of  Herod  through 
suspicion  of  criminal  intercourse  with  Mariamne  (Jose- 
phus, Ant.  xv,  5,  6,  9).  He  had  married  Salome,  Her- 
od’s sister  (lJr«r.  i,  22, 4).  lie  seems  to  be  the  same 
elsewhere  called  Herod’s  treasurer  (ragtag,  A nt.  xv,  0, 5). 

14.  Son  of  Antipater,  and  brother  of  Herod  the  Great 
(.Josephus,  lUar,  i,  8,  9),  was  sent  by  the  latter  with  a 
large  force  to  subdue  the  Idimneans  (.lnt.  xiv,  15, 4), 
and  afterwards  left  by  him  in  Jerusalem  with  full  pow- 
ers to  act  on  the  defensive  against  Maelieras,  neglecting 
which  orders  he  lost  his  life  in  an  engagement  near  Jer- 
icho (War,  i,  17, 1-4).  He  also  had  a son  named  Jo- 
seph (Ant.  xviii,  5,4),  who  seems  to  be  the  one  men- 
tioned as  cousin  (dve\pibg)  of  Archclans  ( War,  ii,  5, 2). 

15.  Son  of  Ellemus,  a relative  of  the  high-priest 
Matthias,  in  whose  place  he  officiated  for  a single  day 
(apparently  that  of  the  annual  atonement),  in  conse- 
quence of  the  accidental  disqualification  of  the  pontiff 
(Josephus,  A nt.  xvii,  0, 4). 

16.  The  foster-father  of  our  Saviour,  being  “ the  hus- 
band of  Mary,  of  whom  was  born  Jesus,  who  is  called 
Christ”  (Matt,  i,  10).  By  Matthew  lie  is  said  to  have 
been  the  son  of  Jacob,  whose  lineage  is  traced  by  the 
same  writer  through  David  up  to  Abraham.  Luke  rep- 
resents him  as  being  the  son  of  Ileli,  and  traces  his  ori- 
gin up  to  Adam.  Luke  appears  to  have  had  some  spe- 
cific object  in  view,  since  be  introduces  his  genealogical 
line  with  words  of  peculiar  import:  “Jesus  being  (as 
was  supposed)  tlie  son  of  Joseph,  which  was  the  son  of 
Heli”  (Luke  iii,  23) — wc  tvopiZtro,  “as  was  supposed,” 
in  other  terms,  as  accounted  by  law,  as  enrolled  in  the 
family  registers ; for  Joseph  being  the  husband  of  Alary, 
became  thereby,  in  law  (vbpog),  the  father  of  Jesus. 
Sec  Genealogy  ok  Jesus  Chkist.  He  lived  at  Naz- 
areth, in  Galilee  (Luke  ii,  4),  and  it  is  probable  that  his 
family  had  been  settled  there  for  some  time,  since  Alary 
lived  there  too  (Luke  i,  20.  27). 

The  statements  of  Holy  AA’rit  in  regard  to  Joseph  are 
few  and  simple.  According  to  a custom  among  the 
Jews,  traces  of  which  are  still  found,  such  as  hand-fast- 
ing among  the  Scotch,  and  betrothing  among  the  Ger- 
mans, Joseph  had  pledged  his  faith  to  Marv;  but  before 
the  marriage  was  consummated  she  proved  to  be  with 
child.  Grieved  at  this,  Joseph  was  disposed  to  break 
off  the  connection ; but,  not  wishing  to  make  a public 
example  of  one  whom  he  loved,  he  contemplated  a pri- 
vate disruption  of  their  bond.  From  this  step,  howev- 
er, lie  is  deterred  by  a heavenly  messenger,  who  assures 
him  that  Alary  has  conceived  under  a divine  influence. 
“ And  she  shall  bring  forth  a son,  and  thou  shalt  call 
his  name  Jesus;  for  lie  shall  save  his  people  from  their 
sins”  (Matt.,  i,  18  sq. ; Luke  i,  27).  It  must  have  been 
within  a very  short  time  of  his  taking  her  to  his  home 
that  the  decree  went  forth  from  Augustus  Caesar  which 
obliged  him  to  leave  Nazareth  with  his  wife  and  go  to 
Bethlehem.  lie  was  there  with  Alary  and  her  first- 
born when  the  shepherds  came  to  see  the  babe  in  the 
manger,  and  he  went  with  them  to  the  Temple  to  pre- 


JOSEPH 


1019 


josepii 


sent  the  infant  according  to  the  law,  and  there  heard 
the  prophetic  words  of  Simeon  as  he  held  him  in  his 
arms.  When  the  wise  men  from  the  East  came  to  Beth- 
lehem to  worship  Christ,  Joseph  was  there ; and  he  went 
down  to  Egypt  with  them  by  night,  when  warned  by 
an  angel  of  the  danger  which  threatened  them ; and  on 
a second  message  he  returned  with  them  to  the  land  of 
Israel,  intending  to  reside  at  Bethlehem,  the  city  of  Da- 
vid ; but,  being  afraid  of  Archelaus,he  took  up  his  abode, 
as  before  his  marriage,  at  Nazareth,  where  he  carried  on 
his  trade  as  a carpenter.  When  Jesus  was  twelve  years 
old  Joseph  and  Mary  took  him  with  them  to  keep  the 
Bassover  at  Jerusalem,  and  when  they  returned  to  Naz- 
areth he  continued  to  act  as  a father  to  the  child  Jesus, 
and  was  always  reputed  to  be  so  indeed. 

Joseph  was  by  trade  a carpenter,  in  which  business 
he  probably  educated  Jesus  (Thilo,  Apocr.  i,  811).  In 
Matt,  xiii,  55,  we  read,  “Is  not  this  the  son  of  the  car- 
penter?” and  in  Mark  vi, 3,  “Is  not  this  the  carpenter, 
the  son  of  Mary?”  The  term  employed,  tIktujv,  is  of 
a general  character,  and  may  be  fitly  rendered  by  the 
English  word  artificer  or  artizan,  signifying  any  one 
that  labors  in  the  ./h&rication  ( faber  in  Latin)  of  arti- 
cles of  ordinary  use,  whatever  the  material  may  be  out 
of  which  they  are  made.  See  Carpenter.  Schleus- 
ner  (in  voc.)  asserts  that  the  universal  testimony  of  the 
ancient  Church  represents  our  Lord  as  being  a carpen- 
ter’s son.  This  is,  indeed,  the  statement  of  Jnstin  Mar- 
tyr {Dial,  cum  Tryphone,  § 88),  for  he  explains  the  term 
TkKTuiv,  which  he  applies  to  Jesus,  by  saying  that  he 
made  iiporpa  Kui  Zvy a,  ploughs  and  yokes ; but  Origen, 
in  replying  to  Celsns,  who  indulged  in  jokes  against  the 
humble  employment  of  our  Lord,  expressly  denied  that 
Jesus  was  so  termed  in  the  Gospels  (see  the  passage 
cited  in  Otho’s  Justin  Martyr,  ii,  30G,  Jen®,  1843) — a 
declaration  which  suggests  the  idea  that  the  copies 
which  Origen  read  differed  from  our  own;  while  Ilila- 
rius,  on  Matthew  (quoted  in  Simon’s  Dictionnuire  de  la 
Bible,  i,  G91),  asserts,  in  terms  which  cannot  be  mistak- 
en, that  Jesus  was  a smith  {ferrum  igne  rinemtis , mas- 
samque  for  mantis,  etc.).  Among  the  ancient  Jews  all 
handicrafts  Avere  held  in  so  much  honor  that  they  Avere 
learned  and  pursued  by  the  first  men  of  the  nation.  See 
Artificer. 

JeAvisli  tradition  (I Her  os.  Shaph.  c.  14)  names  the  fa- 
ther of  Jesus  X-miE,  rendira,  or  Penthira  (X“Hr!S, 
Midrash,  Kohel,  x.  5 ; IIdp3^p,  Thilo,  A pocr.  i,  528),  and 
represents  him  (Orig.  c.  Cels,  i,  32)  as  a rough  soldier, 
who  became  the  father  of  Jesus  after  Mary  Avas  be-  | 
frothed  to  Joseph.  Another  form  of  the  legend  sets  him  i 
forth  ( Toled . Jeshu,  p.  3,  ed.  Wagenseil ; comp.  Epiplian.  | 
Hcer.  78,  7)  under  the  name  of  Joseph  Pandora  (TS*’1 
Christian  tradition  makes  Joseph  an  old  man 
Avhen  first  espoused  to  Mary  (Epiplian.  Hcer.  78,  7),  be- 
ing no  less  than  eighty  years  of  age,  and  father  of  four 
sons  and  tAA'o  daughters.  Theopliylact,  on  Matt,  xiii, 
55,  says  that  Jesus  Christ  had  brothers  and  sisters,  all 
children  of  Joseph,  whom  he  had  by  bis  sister-in-law, 
Avife  of  his  brother  C’leophas,  aa-Iio  having  died  AA’ithout 
issue,  Joseph  Avas  obliged  by  Luav  to  marry  his  AA'idoAV. 
Of  the  sons,  James,  the  brother  of  the  Lord,  AA’as,  he 
states,  the  first  bishop  of  Jerusalem.  Eusebius  {Hist. 
Ecclfs.  ii,  1)  agrees  in  substance  AA'ith  Theopliylact;  so 
also  does  Epiplianius,  adding  that  Joseph  Avas  fourscore 
years  old  ay  ben  be  married  Mary.  Jerome,  from  Avhom 
it  appears  that  the  alleged  mother’s  name  was  Escha, 
opposes  this  tradition,  and  is  of  opinion  that  Avhat  are 
termed  the  brothers  of  Jesus  AArere  really  his  cousins. 
See  James  ; Mary.  The  painters  of  Christian  antiq- 
uity conspire  Avith  the  AA'riters  in  representing  Joseph  as 
an  old  man  at  the  period  of  the  birth  of  our  Lord — an 
evidence  Avhich  is  not  to  be  lightly  rejected,  though  the 
precise  age  mentioned  may  be  but  an  approximation  to 
fact.  Another  account  (Niceph.  ii,  3)  giv-es  the  name 
of  Salome  as  that  of  Joseph’s  first  Yrife,  Avho  was  related 
to  the  family  of  John  the  Baptist.  The  origin  of  all  the 


earliest  stories  and  assertions  of  the  fathers  concerning 
Joseph,  as,  e.  g.,  his  extreme  old  age,  his  having  sons  by 
a former  Avife,  his  having  the  custody  of  Mary  given  to 
him  bv  lot,  anil  so  on,  is  to  be  found  in  the  apocryphal 
Gospels,  of  Avhich  the  earliest  is  the  Protevangelium  of 
St.  James,  apparently  the  Avork  of  a Christian  JeAv  of 
the  2d  century,  quoted  by  Origen,  and  referred  to  by 
Clement  of  Alexandria  and  Justin  Martyr  (Tischendorf, 
/Vo%.xiii).  The  same  stories  are  repeated  in  the  oth- 
er apocryphal  Gospels.  The  Monophysite  Coptic  Chris- 
tians are  said  to  have  first  assigned  a festival  to  St.  Jo- 
seph in  the  Calendar,  viz.,  on  the  20tli  of  July,  Avliich  is 
thus  inscribed  in  a Coptic  Almanac : “ Requies  sancti  se- 
nis  justi  Josephi  fabri  lignarii,  Deiparae  Virginia  Marias 
sponsi,  qui  pater  Christi  vocari  promeruit.”  The  apoc- 
ryphal Ilistoria  Josephi  fabri  lignarii,  which  now  exists 
in  Arabic  (ed.  Walling,  Lips.  1722;  in  Latin  by  Fabri- 
eius,  Pseudepigr.  i,300;  also  by  Thilo  and  Tischendorf), 
is  thought  by  Tischendorf  to  have  been  originally  Avrit- 
ten  in  Coptic,  and  the  festh'al  of  Joseph  is  supposed  to 
have  been  transferred  to  the  Western  churches  from  the 
East  as  late  as  the  year  1399.  The  aboA’e-named  his- 
tory is  acknowledged  to  be  quite  fabulous^  though  it  be- 
longs probably  to  the  4th  century.  It  professes  to  be 
an  account  given  by  our  Lord  himself  to  the  apostles  on 
the  Mount  of  01iAres,  and  placed  by  them  in  the  library 
of  Jerusalem.  1 1 ascribes  1 1 1 years  to  Joseph’s  life,  and 
makes  him  old,  and  the  father  of  four  sons  and  tAvo 
daughters  before  he  espoused  Mary.  It  is  headed  Avith 
this  sentence : “ Benedictiones  ejus  et  preces  servant  nos 
omnes,  o fratres.  Amen.”  The  reader  Avho  Avishes  to 
know  the  opinion  of  the  ancients  on  the  obscure  subject 
of  Joseph’s  marriage  may  consult  Jerome’s  acrimonious 
tract  Conti'a  Helridium.  lie  will  see  that  Jerome  high- 
ly disapproves  the  common  opinion  (derived  from  the 
apocryphal  Gospels)  of  Joseph  being  twice  married,  and 
that  he  claims  the  authority  of  Ignatius,  Polvcarp,  Ire- 
naeus,  Justin  Martyr,  and  “ many  other  apostolical  men,” 
in  favor  of  his  oavii  vieiv,  that  our  Lord’s  brethren  Avere 
his  cousins  only,  or,  at  all  CA'ints,  against  the  opinion  of 
IleL  idius,  \Adiich  had  been  held  by  Ebion,  Theodotus 
of  Byzantium,  and  Valentine,  that  they  Avere  the  chil- 
dren of  Joseph  and  Mary.  Those  Avho  held  this  opin- 
ion Avere  called  A ntidicomarinnitce,  as  enemies  of  the 
Virgin.  (Epiplianius,  Adv.  I/ceres.  1.  iii,  t.  ii;  Uteres. 
lxxviii.  also  fleer.  Ii.  See  also  Pearson,  On  the  Creed, 
art.  Virgin  Mary;  Mill,  On  the  Brethren  of  the  Lord; 
Calmet,  De  St.  Joseph.  St.  Mar.  Yirg.  conjuge ; and,  for 
an  able  statement  of  the  opposite  vieiv,  Alford’s  note  on 
Matt,  xiii,  55.)  See  Gospels,  Spurious. 

It  is  not  easy  to  determine  Avhen  Joseph  died.  That 
event  may  have  taken  place  before  Jesus  entered  on  his 
public  ministry.  This  has  been  argued  from  the  fact 
that  his  mother  only  appeared  at  the  feast  at  Cana  in 
Galilee.  The  premises,  however,  hardly  bear  out  the 
inference.  With  more  force  of  argument,  it  has  been 
alleged  (Simon,  Dict.de  la  Bible)  that  Joseph  must  have 
been  dead  before  tbe  crucifixion  of  Jesus,  else  he  would 
in  all  probability  have  appeared  AA’ith  Mary  at  the  cross. 
Certainly  the  absence  of  Joseph  from  the  public  life  of 
Christ,  and  the  failure  of  reference  to  him  in  the  dis- 
courses and  history,  Avhile  “51  ary”  and  “his  brethren” 
not  unfrequently  appear,  afford  evidence  not  only  of  Jo- 
seph's death,  but  of  the  inferior  part  Avhich,  as  the  legal 
father  only  of  our  Lord,  Joseph  might  have  been  ex- 
pected to  sustain.  So  far  as  our  scanty  materials  ena- 
ble us  to  form  an  opinion,  Joseph  appears  to  have  been 
a good,  kind,  simple-minded  man,  who,  while  he  afford- 
ed aid  in  protecting  and  sustaining  the  family,  would 
leave  Mary  unrestrained  to  nse  all  the  impressive  and 
formative  influence  of  her  gentle,  affectionate,  pious,  and 
thoughtful  sold.  B.C.  cir.  45  to  A.D.  cir.  25. — Kitto; 
Smith. 

Further  discussion  of  the  above  points  may  be  seen 
in  Meyer.  Xum  Jos.  tempore  nutir.  C.  fuerit  senex  de- 
crepitus (Lips.  17G2);  comp.  Eeav,  Xarratio  de  Jos.  e s. 
codice  desumpta  (Oxon.  1823);  Walther,  Pass  Jos.  d. 


JOSEPH 


1020 


JOSEPH 


wahre  Vciter  Christi  sei  (Berlin,  1791);  Oertel,  Antijo- 
sephismus  (1792) ; Ilasse,  Jos.  verum  Jesn  patrem  nonfu- 
iste  (Regioru.  1792);  Lucie  wig,  1 list.  Krit.  Unters.  (Wol- 
ferb.  liS31).  Tlie  traditions  respecting  Joseph  are  col- 
lected in  A ct.  Sand,  iii,  4 sq. ; there  is  a Life  of  Joseph 
written  in  Italian  by  Affaitati  (Mail.  1716).  See  also 
Volbeding,  Index,  p.  *8 ; llase,  Leben  Jesu  (4th  ed.  1854), 
p.  56.  Comp.  J esus  Ciikist. 

17.  Surnamed  Caiafhas  (q.  v.),  Jewish  high-priest 
in  the  time  of  our  Lord’s  ministry. 

18.  A native  (not  resident,  as  in  Michaelis,  Begrab- 
niss - und  Auferstekungsgesck.  Christi,  p.  44)  of  Arimathiea 
(Matt,  xxvii,  57,  59;  Mark  xv,  43,  45;  Luke  xxiii,  50; 
John  xix,  38),  a city,  probably  the  Ramah  of  the  O.  T., 
in  the  territory  of  Benjamin,  on  the  mountain  range  of 
Ephraim,  at  no  great  distance  south  of  Jerusalem  (Josh, 
xviii,  25;  Judg.  iv,  5),  not  far  from  Gibeah  (Judg.  xix, 
13;  Isa.  x,  29;  llos.  v,  8).  See  Aruiatilea. 

Joseph  was  a secret  disciple  of  Jesus — “an  honorable 
counsellor  (fiovXtVTiiq),  who  waited  for  the  kingdom  of 
God”  (Mark  xv,  43),  and  who,  on  learning  the  death  of 
our  Lord,  “came  and  went  in  boldly  unto  Pilate,  and 
craved  the  body  of  Jesus.”  Pilate,  having  learned  from 
the  centurion  who  commanded  at  the  execution  that 
Jesus  was  actually  dead,  gave  the  body  to  Joseph,  who 
took  it  down  and  wrapped  his  deceased  Lord  in  fine 
linen  which  he  had  purchased  for  the  purpose;  after 
which  he  laid  the  corpse  in  a sepulchre  which  was  hewn 
out  of  a rock,  and  rolled  a stone  against  the  door  of  the 
sepulchre  (Mark  xv,  43  sq.).  From  the  parallel  pas- 
sages in  Matthew  (xxvii,  58  sq.),  Luke  (xxiii,  50  sq.), 
and  John  (xix,  38  sq.),  it  appears  that  the  body  was 
previously  embalmed  at  the  cost  of  another  secret  dis- 
ciple, Xicodcmus,  and  that  the  sepulchre  was  new, 
“wherein  never  man  before  was  laid”  (thus  fulfilling 
Isa.  liii,  9) ; also  that  it  lay  in  a garden,  and  was  the 
property  of  Joseph  himself  (comp.  Origen,  c.  Cels,  ii,  p. 
103,  ed.  Spenc. ; \\  alch,  Obserr.  in  Mutt,  ex  inscript,  p. 
84).  This  garden  was  “in  the  place  where  Jesus  was 
crucified.’  A. I).  29.  See  Golgotha.  Luke  describes 
the  character  of  Joseph  as  “a  good  man  and  a just,” 
adding  that  “he  had  not  assented  to  the  counsel  and 
deed  of  them,”  i.  e.  of  the  Jewish  authorities.  From 
t his  remark  it  is  clear  that  Joseph  was  a member  of  the 
Sanhedrim:  a conclusion  which  is  corroborated  by  the 
epithet  “counsellor,”  applied  to  him  by  both  Luke  and 
Mark.  Whether  Joseph  was  a priest,  as  Light  foot  ( I/or. 
lhb.  p.  669)  thought,  there  is  not  evidence  to  deter- 
mine. \ arious  opinions  as  to  his  social  condition  may 
be  found  in  Thiess  (Krit.  Comment,  ii,  149).  Tradition 
represents  Joseph  as  having  been  one  of  the  Seventy  (It- 
tig,  /Juts,  ile  Pat.  A postal.  § 13 ; Asscmani,  Biblioth.  Ori- 
ent. iii,  1,319  sq.);  and  that  Joseph, being  sent  to  Great 
Britain  by  the  apostle  Philip  about  the  year  63,  settled 
"ijh  his  brother  disciples  at  Glastonburv,  in  Somerset- 
shire, and  there  erected  of  wieker-twigs’the  first  Chris- 
tian oratory  in  England,  the  parent  of  the  majestic  ah-  I 
bev  which  was  afterwards  founded  on  the  same  site.  | 
The  local  guides  to  this  day  show  the  miraculous  thorn 
(said  to  bud  and  blossom  every  Christmas-dav)  that 
sprung  from  the  stalf  which  Joseph  stuck  in  the  ground 
as  lie  stopped  to  rest  himself  on  the  hill-top.  (See  Du"- 
dale’s  Mona st icon,  i,  L ; and  Ilearne,  llist.  and  Antiq.  of 
Glastonbury.)  — Kitto ; Smith.  Other  traditional  no- 
tices may  be  seen  in  the  Evang.  Xieod.  c.  12  sq.;  Ada 
sum-tor  Mart,  ii,  507  sq. ; comp,  the  dissertations  I)e  Jo- 
sipho  Arimath.  of  Iirdmel  [Teutzel]  (Viteb.  1683)  and 
Bjornland  (Abo;e,  1729).  See  Jests  Christ. 

19.  Surnamed  Barsaras  (q.v.),  one  of  the  two  per-  I 
sons  whom  the  primitive  Church,  immediately  after  the  I 
resurrection  of  Christ,  nominated,  praving  that  the  Holy  j 
Spirit  would  show  which  of  them  should  enter  the  apos-  1 
tolic  band  in  place  of  the  wretched  Judas.  On  the  lots  I 
being  cast,  it  proved  that  not  Joseph,  but  Matthias,  was  ! 
chosen  (Acts  i,  23).  A.I).  29. 

Joseph  also  bore  the  honorable  surname  of  Justus  (q. 
v.),  which  was  not  improbably  given  him  on  account  of  j 


his  well-known  probity.  He  was  one  of  those  who  had 
“ companied  with  the  apostles  all  the  time  that  the 
Lord  Jesus  went  in  and  out  among  them,  beginning 
from  the  baptism  of  John,”  until  the  ascension  (Acts  i, 
15  sq.).  Tradition  .also  accounted  him  one  of  the  Sev- 
enty (Eusebius,  / list.  Eccles.  i,  12).  The  same  historian 
relates  (iii,  39),  on  the  authority  of  Papias,  that  Joseph 
the  Just  “ drank  deadly  poison,  and  by  the  grace  of  God 
sustained  no  harm.”  It  has  been  maintained  that  lie  is 
the  same  as  Joses,  surnamed  Barnabas,  mentioned  in 
Acts  iv,  36 ; but  the  manner  in  which  the  latter  is  char- 
acterized seems  to  point  to  a different  person  (Heinrichs, 
On  Acts,  i,  23 ; Ullinann,  in  the  Theolog.  Stud.  u.  Kritik. 
i,  377 ; My  ns  ter,  ibid.  1829,  ii,  326). — Kitto.  He  is  also 
to  he  distinguished  from  Judas  Barsabas  (Acts  xv,  22). 

20.  Son  of  Camus  or  Camydus,  appointed  Jewish 
high-priest  in  place  of  Cantheras  by  Herod,  brother  of 
Agrippa  I,  who  had  obtained  temporary  control  over  the 
Temple  from  Claudius  Caisar  during  the  presidency  of 
Longinus  and  the  procuratorsliip  of  Fadus,  A.D.  46.  8 
(Josephus,  A nt.  xx,  1, 3).  He  was  removed  by  tlie  same 
authority  in  favor  of  Ananias,  son  of  Nebedteus,  during 
the  procuratorship  of  Tiberius  Alexander,  A.D.  48  (ib. 
5,  2). 

21.  Surnamed  Cabi,  son  of  Simon,  a former  liigh- 
priest  of  the  Jews,  and  himself  appointed  to  that  office 
by  Agrippa  during  tlie  procuratorship  of  Festus  (A.D. 
62),  hut  shortly  afterwards  removed  by  the  same  au- 
thority on  tlie  arrival  of  Albinos  (A.D.  G2),  in  favor  of 
Anamis,  son  of  Ananus  (Josephus,  Ant.  xx,  8,  11 ; 9,  1). 
See  High-priest. 

22.  Son  of  a female  physician  (iaTpivrf),  who  excited 
a sedition  at  Gamala  near  the  close  of  the  Jewish  inde- 
pendence (Josephus,  Life,  37). 

23.  Son  of  Dahens,  an  eminent  Jew,  who  threw  him- 
self into  the  rtaincs  of  the  Temple  rather  than  surrender 
to  the  Romans  (Josephus,  War,  vi,  5,  1). 

Joseph,  patriarch  of  Constantinople  from  A.D. 
1416  to  1439,  is  one  of  the  distinguished  characters  in. 
the  history  of  the  Council  of  Florence.  He  was  for 
a long  time  one  of  the  must  radical  opponents  to  a un- 
ion of  the  Eastern  and  Western  churches,  but  the  cun- 
ning Romanists  at  last  ensnared  the  hoary  patriarch, 
and  he  was  induced,  at  a time  when  Rome  itself  was 
divided,  to  throw  his  influence  in  favor  of  the  politic 
Eugenius  IV,  and  actually  attended  the  Council  of  Flor- 
ence, there  and  then  argued  for  union,  and  finally  signed 
articles  of  agreement  to  effect  this  end.  No  sooner, 
however,  had  he  assented  than  deep  remorse  for  his  ac- 
tion, forced  upon  him  mainly  by  the  unfortunate  condi- 
tion of  his  country,  then  greatly  harassed  by  the  in- 
vading Turks,  brought  him  to  a sick  bed,  and  lie  died 
eight  daj's  after  signing  the  instrument,  June  10, 1439, 
leaving  the  Greek  emperor,  John  Palreologus,  the  only 
support  of  the  Greek  Council.  See  Milman’s  Latin 
Christianity,  viii,  13  sq. ; Mosheim,  Eccles.  Hist,  book  iii, 
cent,  xv,  pt.  ii,  ch.  ii,  § 13,  23,  note  57.  For  further  de- 
tails, see  the  articles  Basle,  Council  of;  Florence, 
Councils  of;  Greek  Church.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Joseph  (St.)  the  IIy.mxologist  (Josephus  hym- 
nographus,  a native  of  Sicily,  fled  from  that  island  to 
Africa  and  then  to  Greece.  He  entered  a convent 
at  Thessalonica,  where  he  became  eminent  for  his  as- 
cetic practices,  and  for  the  fluency  and  gracefulness  of 
his  utterance,  “so  that  he  easily,”  says  his  biographer, 

“ threw  the  fabled  sirens  into  the  shade.”  Having  been 
ordained  presbyter,  lie  went  to  Constantinople  with 
Gregory  of  Decapolis,  who  there  became  one  of  tlie  lead- 
ers ol  the  “orthodox”  party  in  their  struggle  with  the 
iconoclastic  emperor,  Leo  the  Armenian,  which  began 
in  A.D.  814.  From  Constantinople  Joseph  repaired,  at 
the  desire  of  this  Gregory,  to  Rome,  to  solicit  the  sup- 
port of  tlie  pope,  but,  falling  into  the  hands  of  pirates, 
was  by  them  carried  away  to  Crete.  Here  he  remained 
till  the  deatli  of  Leo  the  Armenian  (A.D.  820),  when  he 
was,  as  his  biographer  asserts,  miraculously  delivered, 


JOSEPH  BEN-CIII JA 


1021 


JOSEPH  BEN-GORION 


and  conveyed  to  Constantinople.  On  his  return  he 
found  his  friend  and  leader  Gregory  dead,  and  attached 
himself  to  another  leader,  John,  on  whose  death  he 
caused  his  body,  together  with  that  of  Gregory,  to  be 
transferred  to  the  deserted  church  of  St.  John  Chrysos- 
tom, in  connection  with  which  he  established  a monas- 
tery, that  was  soon,  by  the  attractiveness  of  his  elo- 
quence, filled  with  inmates.  After  this  he  was,  for  his 
strenuous  defence  of  image  worship,  banished  to  Cher- 
sona?,  apparently  by  the  emperor  Theopliilus,  who  reign- 
ed from  A.D.  829  to  842;  but,  on  the  death  of  the  em- 
peror, was  recalled  from  exile  by  the  empress  Theodora, 
and  obtained,  through  the  favor  of  the  patriarch  Igna- 
tius, the  office  of  scenophylax,  or  keeper  of  the  sacred 
vessels  in  the  great  church  of  Constantinople.  Joseph 
was  equally  acceptable  to  Ignatius  and  to  his  competi- 
tor and  successor  Phot  ins.  lie  died  at  an  advanced  age 
in  A.D.  883.  Joseph  is  chiefly  celebrated  as  a writer 
of  eanones  or  liymni,  of  which  several  are  extant  in  INIS., 
but  there  is  some  difficulty  in  distinguishing  his  com- 
positions from  those  of  Joseph  of  Thessalonica.  His 
Canaries  in  omnia  Beato}  Virginia  Maria-  festa,  and  his 
Theotoeia , hymns  in  honor  of  the  Virgin,  scattered 
through  the  ecclesiastical  books  of  the  Greeks,  were 
published,  with  a learned  commentary  and  a life  of 
Joseph,  translated  from  the  Greek  of  John  the  Dea- 
con, by  Hippolito  Maraeei,  under  the  title  of  Mariale 
S.  Josephi  Hynmographi  (Rome,  1(161).  The  version 
of  the  life  of  Joseph  was  by  Luigi  Maraeei,  of  Lueea, 
the  brother  of  Ippolito.  Another  Latin  version  of  the 
same  life,  but  less  exact,  by  the  Jesuit  Floritus,  was 
published  among  the  Vita-  Sanctorum,  Siculorum  of  Oc- 
tavius Cajetanns  (Ottavio  Gaetano),  ii,  43  (Palenno. 
1657,  folio),  and  reprinted  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum  (see 
below).  Some  writers  suppose  that  there  was  another 
Joseph,  a writer  of  hymns,  mentioned  in  the  title  of  a 
IMS.  typtcon  at  Rome  as  of  the  monastery  of  St.  Nico- 
laus Casularum  (tojv  KaaovXujv).  See  Vita  S.. Josephi 
llymnographi , in  the  Acta  Sanctorum,  s.  d.  Ill  Aprilis, 
i,  269,  etc.,  with  the  commentary  of  Prawius  of  Papele- 
roclie,  and  Appendix,  p.  xxiv;  Fabricius,  Bill.  Grcec.  xi, 
79;  Menoloffium  Grcecorum , jnssu  Basilii,  Imperatoris 
editum,  s.  d.  Ill  Aprilis  (LTrbino,  1727,  folio). — Smith, 
Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom . Biog.  iii,  929. 

Joseph  ben-Chija  (in  the  Talmud  simply  styled 
Rabbi  Joseph),  one  of  the  greatest  of  Israel’s  Rabbis,  was 
born  in  Babylon  about  A.D.  270.  Rabbi  Joseph  was  a 
disciple  of  Jehudali  ben-Jecheskel,  the  founder  and  pres- 
ident of  the  college  at  Pumbadita,  and  a fellow-student 
and  intimate  lifelong  friend  of  the  celebrated  llabba 
ben-Nachmani,  commonly  called  Rabba,  the  reputed 
author  of  the  Midrash  Rabba,  or  the  traditional  com- 
mentary on  Genesis,  whom  he  succeeded  in  the  presi- 
dency at  Pumbadita  about  A.D.  330.  He  died,  however, 
only  three  years  after  (about  A.D.  333).  Joseph  de- 
serves our  notice  not  so  much  from  his  connection  with 
the  school  at  Pumbadita,  which,  though  brief,  was  yet 
of  marked  benefit  to  the  development  of  Biblical  schol- 
arship at  that  centre  of  Jewish  learning,  as  for  his  Chal- 
dee versions  of  the  Hebrew  Scriptures  (i.  e.  the  Psalms, 
Proverbs,  and  Job),  particularly  of  the  llagiographa, 
of  which  alone  the  authorship  can  be  ascribed  to  him 
with  any  certainty  (comp,  the  Rabbinic  Bibles).  Some 
Jewish  critics  credit  him  with  a version  of  the  whole  O. 
Test. ; and,  indeed,  from  passages  quoted  in  the  Talmud 
(comp.  Moed  Katon , 26.  a ; Pesachim,  68,  a ; Menachoth, 
110,  a;  Joma,  32,  b;  77,  b;  Aboda  Sara,  44,  a;  Kiddu- 
shin,  13,  a;  72,  b;  Xedarim,  38,  a;  Baba  Kama,  3,  b; 
Berachoth,  28,  a)  from  a paraphrase  with  which  he  is 
accredited,  it  would  appear  that  he  translated  Kings, 
Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  Hosea,  Amos,  Obadiali,  Zephaniah, 
and  Zechariah,  since  these  passages  are  from  these 
books,  and  are  distinctly  cited  with  the  declaration 
re'"  in  E5“r~“Z,  “ as  R.  Joseph  has  rendered  it 
into  Chaldee.”  These  renderings  are,  however,  almost 
exactly  those  given  in  the  Targum  of  Jonathan  ben- 


Uzziel  (a  fact  which  has  led  some  to  suppose  that  this 
Targum  ascribed  to  Jonathan  is  in  reality  Joseph’s); 
and  he  himself  even  declared  on  several  occasions,  when 
discussing  the  meaning  of  a diflicult  passage  in  the 
Scriptures,  “ If  we  had  not  the  Targum  on  this  passage 
we  should  not  know  what  it  means”  (see  Sanhedrim,  94, 
a ; Moed  Katon,  28,  b ; Megilla,  3,  a).  It  is  therefore  un- 
reasonable to  suppose  him  to  have  himself  actually  ren- 
dered into  Chaldee  more  than  the  llagiographa  contain- 
ed (with  a Latin  version)  in  the  Polyglots  of  Antwerp 
(1572),  Paris  (1645),  London  (1657),  etc.  In  his  day,  Jo- 
seph b.-Chija  must  have  enjoyed  a very  enviable  reputa- 
tion for  erudition.  His  knowledge  of  traditional  lore  is 
said  to  have  been  so  extensive  that  he  was  surnamed, 
both  in  Palestine  and  Babylon,  Joseph  of  Sinai,  i.  e.  one 
acquainted  with  all  the  traditions  in  succession  sinee  the 
giving  of  the  law  on  Sinai  ( Horajoth , 14,  a;  Sanhe- 
drim , 42,  a).  One  of  his  favorite  studies  was  the  Cab- 
alistic Theosophy,  the  mysteries  of  which,  being  con- 
tained in  the  vision  of  Ezekiel  respecting  the  throne 
of  God  (rC3“"a  rt'i*"^),  he  endeavored  to  propound 
( Chagiga , 18,  a).  See  Bartolocci,  Bibliotheca  Magna 
Rabbinica,  iii,  814;  Wolf,  Bibliotheca  Ilebrcea,  ii,  1171 
sq. ; Znnz,  Die  Gottesdienstlichen  Vortrdge  der  Juden,  p. 
65,  etc.;  Fiirst,  Kultur  urnl  Literaturgesch.  der  Juden  in 
Asien,  p.  144-155;  Griitz,  Gesch.  der  Juden,  iv,  408  sq., 
553  sq. ; Ersch  u.  Gruber’s  A llgemeine  Encyhlopadie,  see. 
ii,  vol.  xxxi,  p.  75;  Etheridge,  hit  rod.  to  Heb.  Lit.  p.  165 
sq. ; Kitto,  Bill.  Cyclop,  s.  v.  (J.  II.  W.) 

Joseph  ben-Gikatilla.  See  Moses  (ha-Ko- 
iiex)  bex-Sajiuel. 

Joseph  ben-Gorion  (also  called  Josippon),  is 
the  name  of  the  reputed  author  of  the  celebrated  He- 
brew chronicle  “25,  the  book  of  Josippon,  or 

■"ZZ.T!  the  Hebrew  Josippon,  a work  which, 

by  the  statement  of  the  author,  is  placed  in  the  a>ra 
of  Christ,  for  be  says  of  himself  that  he  is  “ the  priest 
of  Jerusalem”  (and  this  can  refer  only  to  the  celebrated 
Jewish  historian  Flavius  Josephus  [q.  v.]),  and  further- 
more that  he  was  appointed  governor  of  the  whole  Jew- 
ish nation  by  Titus ; and  from  the  days  of  Saadia  (A.D. 
950)  up  to  our  own  time  it  was  quoted  both  by  Jewish 
and  Christian  writers  as  a genuine  work  of  Josephus. 
Of  late,  however,  critical  inquiry  has  determined  the 
work  to  be  a production  of  the  Middle  Ages.  The  con- 
jecture is  that  the  author  was  a Jew,  and  that  he  flour- 
ished about  the  9th  or  10th  century.  Zunz,in  the  Zeit- 
schrift  f.Wissenschaft  d.  Judenth.  (Berl.  1822,  p.300  sq.), 
asserted  that  Joseph  ben-Gorion  flourished  in  the  9th 
century,  and  that  his  work  must  since  his  day  have  un- 
dergone frequent  emendations  and  alterations.  Later 
Zunz  (in  his  notes  on  Benjamin  of  Tudela,  ed.  Asher, 
1841,  ii,  246)  changed  his  opinion  somewhat,  and  regard- 
ed Joseph  as  “ the  [Hebrew]  translator  and  editor  of  Jo- 
sephus,” and  assigns  him  to  “the  middle  of  the  latter 
half  of  the  10th  century,”  and  says  of  him  that  his  ac- 
counts of  several  nations  of  his  time  are  as  important  as 
his  orthography  of  Italian  towns  is  remarkable.”  To 
the  same  period  Steinsehneider  ( Jewish  Liter.,  London, 
1857,  p.  77)  also  assigns  the  work,  but  he  believes  the 
author  to  have  been  a native  of  Northern  Italy,  and  con- 
siders the  chronicle  “the  Hebrew'  edition  of  the  Latin 
Hegesippus,”  and  “ an  offshoot  from  the  fully  developed 
Midrash  of  Arabian  and  Latin  literature.”  A still  more 
modern  critic,  the  celebrated  Jewish  historian  Gratz 
(Gesch.  d.  Juden,  v,  28 1 , and  note  4 in  the  Appendix  of  the 
same  volume),  holds  that  the  Jewish  book,  which  he  also 
assigns  to  the  10th  century,  is  simply  a translation  of  an 
Arabic  book  of  Maccabees,  entitled  History  of  the  Macca- 
bees of  Joseph  ben-Gorion  (of  which  parts  were  published 
in  the  Polyglots,  Paris,  1645;  Loud.  1657)  under  the  title 
of  the  Arabic  book  of  Maccabees,  and  which  is  extant  in 
two  MSS.  in  the  Bodleian  library  ( Uri  Catalogue,  Nos. 
782, 829),  made  by  a skilful  Italian  Jew,  who  enriched  it 
with  many  original  additions.  His  reason  for  assign- 


JOSEPHUS 


JOSEPH  BEN-ISAAC  KDICIII  1022 


ing  it  to  the  earlier  part  of  the  10th  century  is  that 
Dunash  b.-  l’anaim  (who  flourished  about  955)  knew  the 
work  and  spoke  of  parts  of  it  (corap.  Oilman’s  Gibbon, 
Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Homan  Empire,  ii,  6,  note). 

But  as  to  the  chronicle  itself.  It  consists  of  six 
books.  It  begins  its  record  with  Adam;  explains  the 
genealogical  table  in  Gen.  xi ; then  passes  on  to  the  his- 
tory of  Koine,  Babylon,  Cyrus,  and  the  fall  of  Babylon; 
resumes  again  the  historyoi'the  Jews;  describes  the  times 
of  Daniel, "zerubbabel,  Esther,  etc.;  gives  an  account  of 
Alexander  the  Great,  his  connection,  his  exploits,  and 
expeditions  of  his  successors ; and  then  continues  the 
history  of  the  Jews;  of  Heliodorus’s  assault  on  the  Tem- 
ple; the  translation  of  the  O.  T.  into  Greek;  the  deeds 
of  the  Maccabees ; the  events  of  the  Ilerodians ; and  the 
last  war  which  terminated  in  the  destruction  of  the 
Temple  by  Titus.  The  authorities  quoted  in  this  re- 
markable book  are : 1.  Nicolaus  the  Damascene ; 2.  Stra- 
bo of  Cappadocia;  3.  Titus  Livius;  4.  Togthas  of  Jeru- 
salem ; 5.  l’orophius  of  Rome ; (5.  The  history  of  Alex- 
ander, written  in  the  year  of  his  death  by  Magi ; 7.  The 
book. of  the  antediluvian  patriarch  Cainan  b.-Enos;  8. 
Books  of  the  Greeks,  Medians,  Persians,  and  Macedoni- 
ans; 9.  Epistle  of  Alexander  to  Aristotle  about  the  won- 
ders of  India;  10.  Treaties  of  alliance  of  the  Romans: 
11.  Cicero,  who  was  in  the  Iloly  of  Holies  of  the  Tem- 
ple during  the  reign  of  Pompey;  12.  The  intercalary 
years  of  Julius  Caesar,  composed  for  the  Nazarites  and 
Greeks;  13.  The  chronicles  of  the  Roman  emperors; 
14.  The  constitutional  diploma  which  Vespasian  vener- 
ated so  highly  that  he  kissed  every  page  of  it;  15.  The 
Alexandrian  Library  with  its  995  volumes;  1G.  Jewish 
histories  which  are  lost;  and,  17.  The  national  tradi- 
tions which  have,  been  translated  orally.  The  first 
printed  edition  of  this  work  appeared  in  Mantua,  147G 
-1479,  with  a preface  by  Abraham  ben-Salmon  Cona- 
to.  A reprint  of  this  edition  (the  text  vitiated),  with  a 
Latin  version  by  Munster,  was  published  at  Basle,  1541. 
There  appeared  an  edition  from  a MS.  containing  a 
somewhat  different  version  of  the  work,  and  divided  into 
ninety-seven  chapters,  edited  by  Tam  Ibn-Jachja  ben- 
David  (Constantinople,  1510).  New  editions  of  it  were 
published  in  Venice,  1544;  Cracow,  1589;  Frankfort-on- 
the-Main,  1G89;  Amsterdam,  1723;  Prague,  1784;  Zol- 
kiew,  1805;  Vilna,  1819.  It  was  partly  translated  into 
Arabic  by  Zeehariah  ben-Said  el-Temeni  about  1223. 
and  into  English  by  Peter  Morwyng  (Lond.  1558,  15GI, 
1575,  1579, 1G02).  There  are  two  other  Latin  transla- 
tions, besides  the  one  by  Munster,  1541;  one  was  made 
by  the  learned  English  Orientalist,  John  Gagnier  (Ox- 
ford, 1 71(1),  and  one  by  Brcithaupt ; the  last  has  also  the 
Hebrew  text  and  elaborate  notes,  and  will  always  con- 
tinue to  be  the  student’s  edition.  There  are  German 
translations  by  Michael  Adam  (Zurich,  1546),  Moses  b.- 
Bczaliel  (Prague,  1G07),  Abraham  ben-Mordecai  Cohen 
(Amsterdam,  1 (Ml), and  Seligmann  Reis  (Frauklbrt-on- 
the-Main,  1707).  Compare,  besides  the  authorities  al- 
ready cited,  Zimz,  I)ie.  Gottesdienstlicken  Yortrage  der  Jit- 
den  (Berlin,  1832), p.  146-154 ; Delitzsch, Zur  Geschichte 
der  jiidischen  Poesie  (Leipzig,  1836),  p.  37-40;  Carmoly 
in  .lost's  Annalen  (Frankfort-on-tlie-Main,  1839),  i,  149 
s'l- ; Milman,  Hint,  of  the  Jews,  iii,  131 ; FUrst,  Bibliotheca 
Jirlaicn,  ii,  111-114;  Steinschneider,  Cataloqns  Libr. 
JJebr.  in  Bibliotheca  Bodleiana,  1547-1552;  Ivitto,  Bibl, 
(.  \ yclnptedia , s.  v.  ( J.  11 . W. ) 

Joseph  ben-Isaac  Kimchi.  See  Kimchi. 
Joseph  ben-Satia.  See  Saadia. 

J oseph  ben-Shemtob,  a noted  Jewish  philoso- 
pher, polemic,  and  commentator,  flourished  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  15th  century  in  Castile,  and  was  in  high  office 
at  the  court  of  Juan  II.  He  was  especially  noted  in  his 
day  as  a philosopher,  and  wrote  many  philosophical 
works,  which  form  important  contributions  to  the  his- 
tory of  Jewish  philosophy.  He  was  especially  rigid  in 
Uclenee  of  Judaism  as  a religions  system,  in  opposition 
to  the  Christian,  and  in  that  line  freely  used  I'roflat  Du- 


ran’s writings,  upon  which  he  commented.  See  Pro- 
fiat. In  his  later  days  he  lost  his  position  at  court 
through  the  machinations  of  the  papists  and  the  so-call- 
ed converts  from  Judaism,  and  finally  died  the  death  of 
martyrdom  about  14G0.  His  works  of  especial  interest 
to  us  are:  (1)  Commentary  on  the  celebrated  Epistle  of 
Profat  Duran  against  Christianity  (Constantinople, 
157*7);  contained  also  in  Geiger’s  ‘J'aip  (Bres- 

lau, 1844);  — (2)  Course  of  Homilies  delivered  in  the 
synagogue  on  different  Sabbaths  on  various  portions  of 
the  Bible,  entitled  iPTIpn  fV,  The  Eye  of  the  Reader 
(still  in  MS.  in  the  Bodleian  Library  at  Oxford,  Codex 
Michael,  581):— (3)  Commentary  on  Lamentations , com- 
posed at  Medina  del  Campo  in  the  year  1441  (MS.  by  De 
Rossi,  No.  177) ; — (4)  Commentary  on  Genesis  i,  1-vi,  8, 
being  the  Sabbatic  lesson  which  commences  the  Jewish 
year  [see  IIaphtarah]  :— and  (5)  Exposition  of  Dent. 
xv,  11.  Comp.  Steinschneider,  in  Ersch  und  Gruber’s 
Allgemeine  Encyklop.  see.  ii,  vol.  xxxi,  p.  87-93;  Cata- 
logus  Libr.  Ilebr.  in  Bibliotheca  Bodleiana , col.  1529; 
Griitz,  Gesch.  d.  Juden,  viii,  179  sq. ; also  note  4 in  the 
Appendix;  Ivitto,  Bibl.  Cyclop,  s.  v.  (J.  H.W.) 

Joseph,  Joel.  See  Witzexhausen. 

Joseph  Taitatzali.  See  Taitatzak. 

Jose'phus  (hhtjijfpoQ  v.  r.  <J>o<t?j7toc),  the  Grmco- 
Latin  form  (1  Esdr.ix,  34)  of  the  Ileb.name  Joseph  (q. 
v.)  G (Ezra  x,  42). 

Josephus,  Flavius,  the  celebrated  Jewish  histo- 
rian, was  born  at  Jerusalem  A.D.  37.  His  father’s  name 
was  Mattathias,  and  in  his  autobiography  (the  only 
source  left  us  to  write  his  history,  as  the  works  of  his 
rival,  Justus  of  Tiberias,  are  unhappily  lost)  he  lays 
claim  to  royal  and  sacerdotal  lineage,  and  alludes  to  the 
renown  he  enjoyed  while  yet  a youth  ( Life , i,  1).  His 
early  years  seem  to  have  been  spent  in  elose  study  of 
the  Jewish  traditions  and  the  O.-T.  writings.  Dissat- 
isfied with  all  of  the  three  principal  Jewish  sects,  while 
yet  a young  man  he  spent  three  years  as  the  follower 
of  one  Banns,  an  eremite,  in  the  desert,  but  at  last  joined 
the  sect  of  the  Pharisees.  He  was  only  19  when  lie  left 
Banns,  and  he  joined  the  Pharisees  between  19  and  2G, 
when  he  went  to  Rome.  Soon  afterwards,  the  impris- 
onment of  some  Jewish  priests  by  the  procurator  Felix 
afforded  him  an  opportunity  of  pleading  his  people’s  cause 
before  the  emperor  himself  at  the  Roman  capital,  whith- 
er these  men  had  been  sent.  On  the  way  he  was  ship- 
wrecked (some  have  unwarrantably  imagined  that  he  was 
Paul’s  companion  in  that  disastrous  voyage),  but,  being 
rescued  by  a Cyrenian  vessel,  he  made  his  way  to  Rome. 
He  there  not  only  secured  the  object  of  his  mission,  but 
also  ingratiated  himself  in  the  favor  of  the  empress,  and 
at  length  returned  home  loaded  with  presents.  He 
found  the  mass  of  his  countrymen  determined  on  a re- 
volt from  the  empire,  and  he  anxiously  sought,  to  dis- 
suade them  from  so  rash  a course.  The  Jews,  however, 
refused  to  listen  to  his  advice ; and  the  only  alternatives 
for  him  were  either  to  follow  the  popular  will,  and  thus 
perhaps  make  himself  the  leader  of  his  people,  or  to  re- 
turn to  Rome,  and  there  receive  the  rewards  of  treach- 
ery. In  his  description  of  the  Jewish  insurrection  he 
has  given  ns  a graphic  account  of  the  numerous  plots 
and  perils  in-  which  he  became  entangled  during  this 
period  of  his  life.  After  the  disastrous  retreat  of  Cestius 
Gallus  from  Jerusalem,  and  the  barbarous  massacre  of 
the  Jews  at  Sepphoris  (q.  v.)  and  the  Syrian  eities,  the 
most  peacefully  inclined  of  the  Jews  joined  the  zealots, 
and  Josephus  no  longer  hesitated  as  to  the  best  course 
to  be  pursued.  With  great  ostentation  of  patriotism 
and  self-devotion,  he  declared  in  favor  of  war  (ia  ou- 
t ranee and  he  soon  secured  for  himself  the  appoint- 
ment as  general.  Together  with  Joazar  and  Judas  he 
was  sent  to  Galilee,  “ the  province  on  which  the  storm 
would  first  break.”  II is  two  colleagues,  however,  de- 
voted themselves  to  their  priestly  functions,  and  Jo- 
sephus became  the  sole  commander  (Life,  4-7 ; War, 


JOSEPHUS 


1023 


josepiius 


ii,  20,  4).  Finding  t|ie  Galilean  Jews  divided  among 
themselves  (see  John  of  Gisciiala),  and  fearing  that 
his  command  was  too  weak  to  meet  the  army  of  the 
approaching  Vespasian,  he  retired  to  the  Jewish  strong- 
hold Jotapata,  and  there  awaited  the  attack  of  the  Ho- 
mans. For  forty-seven  days  he  encouraged  his  sol- 
diers to  deeds  that  immortalized  his  name.  (For  an 
interesting  description  of  this  siege,  see  Weber  and 
Holtzmann,  Gesch.  d.  Volkes  Israel,  ii,  475  sq. ; Milrr.an, 
Hi 1st.  of  (he  Jews  [Middleton’s  edition],  ii,  252  sq.)  Yet 
some  writers,  among  them  Raphall  and  Griitz,  accuse 
him  even  here  of  treachery  and  cowardice,  alleging  that 
he  endeavored  to  get  away  from  Jotapata  on  the  pre- 
tence of  desiring  to  raise  an  army  for  its  relief,  although 
he  could  not  have  left  “ without  either  falling  into  the 
hands  of  the  Homans  or  voluntarily  joining  them."  Even 
after  the  fall  of  that  fortress  he  did  not  surrender  to  the 
Homans,  but  hid  himself  with  forty  companions  in  a cave, 
and  refused  to  come  forth,  when  his  place  of  refuge  was 
betrayed,  until  his  life  was  guaranteed  him.  (See  Smith, 
Diet,  of  Greek  ami  Roman  Biog.  ii,  61 1,  col.  i;  Raphall, 
Post-Bibl.  Ilist.  Jews,' p.  427  sq.)  After  his  surrender 
to  Vespasian  he  was  put  in  chains,  with  a view  to  beiug 
sent  to  Home  for  trial  before  Nero.  He  evaded  this 
danger  by  predicting  (he  distinctly  claims  the  gift  of 
prophecy,  War,  iii,  8,  9)  to  Vespasian  his  future  eleva- 
tion to  the  imperial  throne,  but  was  still  held  in  con- 
finement for  three  years,  until,  on  the  realization  of  his 
prediction,  his  chains  were  cut  from  him,  as  a sign  that 
he  had  been  unjustly  bound  (War,  iv,  10,  7).  Vespa- 
sian had  been  declared  emperor  by  the  Roman  soldiers 
in  the  East,  and  he  immediately  set  out  for  the  West, 
leaving  Titus  in  command,  with  orders  to  hasten  the 
conclusion  of  the  war  still  raging  in  Palestine.  In  this 
expedition  on  Jerusalem  Josephus  accompanied  Titus. 
Titus  had  supposed  this  task,  with  the  assistance  of 
the  “ renegade”  (so  Milman  calls  him),  an  easy  one ; 
but  the  Jews  braved  the  attack  of  the  Homans  much 
more  obstinately  than  the  latter  had  expected,  and, 
finally,  Josephus  was  induced  to  go  forth  and  urge  his 
countrymen  to  capitulate,  and  thus  to  save  the  place 
from  certain  and  total  destruction.  The  people,  by  his 
account,  were  touched  and  ready  to  yield,  but  the  lead- 
ers remained  obstinate ; but  the  fact  is  that  they  were 
naturally  disinclined  to  listen  to  the  counsels  of  a man 
who  had  quitted  them  in  the  hour  of  their  greatest  need. 
They  even  sought  to  kill  him,  and  continued  the  de- 
fence to  the  last  extremity.  On  the  downfall  of  the 
city,  the  most  intimate  friends  and  relatives  of  Jose- 
phus were  spared  at  his  request,  and,  in  return  for 
his  aid  and  counsel  in  the  siege,  a valuable  estate 
in  JucUea  was  assigned  him  as  a residence.  Well 
aware,  however,  that  among  his  countrymen  he  would 
hardly  find  a safe  refuge,  he  returned  with  Titus  to 
Rome  to  enjoy  the  honors  which  Vespasian  might  be- 
stow npon  him.  He  was  received  with  great  kind- 
ness by  the  emperor;  but,  although  the  privileges  of 
Roman  citizenship  were  conferred  upon  him  and  an  an- 
nual pension  awarded  him,  he  was  detested  by  the  Ho- 
mans no  less  than  by  the  Jews.  It  is  supposed  that 
his  death  occurred  in  the  early  years  of  Trajan’s  reign, 
perhaps  A.I).  103.  For  other  facts  of  a more  directly 
personal  character,  such  as  his  three  marriages,  the 
names  of  his  sons,  etc.,  see  the  seventy-six  chapters  of 
his  life,  and  the  following  other  passages  of  his  other 
works:  Apion,  i,  9,  10;  War,  i;  ii,  20,  3 sq. ; 21,  2 sq. ; 

iii,  7,  13  sq.;  8,  1 sq.;  9;  vi,  5;  Ant.  ed.  Haverearap,  i, 
5, 228, 53G,  545,  682, 982 ; Suidas,  s.  v.  ’ Iojotjttoc. 

The  character  of  Josephus  has  been  very  differently 
delineated  by  different  writers.  From  his  own  works,  es- 
pecially his  books  against  Apion,  it  is  evident  that,  though 
he  dealt  rather  treacherously  with  his  people,  he  yet  felt 
a pride  in  the  antiquity  of  the  nation  and  in  its  ancient 
glories;  and  in  the  description  of  the  misfortunes  of  the 
Jews  he  is  by  no  means  wanting  in  sympathy  for  them. 
Thus  his  account  of  the  miserable  fate  of  Jerusalem 
is  altogether  free  from  that  tone  of  revolting  coldness 


which  shocks  ns  in  Xenophon’s  account  of  the  downfall 
of  Athens  (Hell,  ii,  2,  § 3 sq.).  Yet  the  mildest  inter- 
pretation that  his  conduct  can  receive  certainly  is  that 
he  despaired  (as  earnest  patriots  never  do)  of  his  coun- 
try, and  that  he  deseTted  his  countrymen  in  their  great- 
est extremity.  Indeed,  from  the  very  beginning,  he 
appears  to  have  looked  on  the  national  cause  as  hope- 
less, and  to  have  cherished  the  intention  of  making 
peace  with  Rome  whenever  he  could.  Thus  he  told 
some  of  the  chief  men  of  Tiberias  that  he  was  well 
aware  of  the  invincibility  of  the  Homans,  though  he 
thought  it  safer  to  dissemble  his  conviction;  and  he 
advised  them  to  do  the  same,  and  to  wait  for  a con- 
venient season — moipivovai  icaipov  (Life,  35;  compare 
War,  iii,  5) ; and  we  find  him  again,  in  his  attack  on 
Justus  the  historian  (Life,  65),  earnestly  defending 
himself  from  the  charge  of  having  in  any  way  caused 
the  war  with  Home.  Had  this  feeling  originated  in  a 
religious  conviction  that  the  Jewish  nation  had  forfeited 
God’s  favor,  the  ease,  of  course,  would  have  been  differ- 
ent; but  such  a spirit  of  living,  practical  faith  we  do 
not  discover  in  Josephus.  Holding  in  the  main  the 
abstract  doctrines  of  a Pharisee,  but  with  the  principles 
and  temper  of  a Herodian,  he  strove  to  accommodate 
his  religion  to  heathen  tastes  and  prejudices;  and  this 
by  actual  commissions  (Ottius,  Prcetermissa  a Josepho, 
appended  to  his  Spicilegium),  no  less  than  by  a ration- 
alistic system  of  modification  (Smith,  Diet.  Greek  and 
Rom.  Biog.  ii,  612).  A more  favorable  opinion  is  some- 
times expressed  of  Josephus,  as  by  a writer  in  the  Evan- 
gelical Quart.  Review,  1870,  p.  420.  Prof.  F.  W.  Farrar 
(in  Kitto,  Cyclop.  Bill.  Literature,  s.v.)  has  perhaps  best 
summed  up  the  religious  character  of  Josephus  as  that 
of  “a  strange  mixture  of  the  bigoted  Pharisee  and  the 
time-serving  Herodian,”  and  as  “mingling  the  national 
pride  of  the  patriot  with  the  apostasy  of  a traitor.” 

Very  different  is  the  opinion  of  all  on  the  writings  of 
Josephus.  Even  in  his  day  he  was  greatly  lauded  for 
his  literary  abilities.  Though  a Jew  by  birth,  he  had 
so  ably  acquired  the  Greek  that  he  could  be  counted 
among  the  classic  writers  in  that  language.  St.  Jerome 
designates  him  as  the  “ Greecus  Livius”  ( Epist . ad  Eu- 
stach.) ; and,  to  come  nearer  our  own  days,  Niebuhr 
pronounces  him  a Greek  writer  of  singular  purity  (Awe. 
Hist,  iii,  455).  But,  withal,  he  is  hardly  deserving  of 
the  epithet  <piXaXifii)Q,  so  often  bestowed  on  him  (Suid. 
s.  v.  Two7/7roc;  Isidor  Pelusiot.  iv,  Ep.  75:  “diligentis- 
sinms  et  QiXaXgSioTaToc,"  Jos.  Sealiger,  De  Emend. 
Temp.  Prtef , etc.).  It  is  true,  he  understood  the  duty 
and  importance  of  veracity  in  the  historian  (Ant.  xiv,  I, 
1 ; War,  i,  1 ; c.  Apion,  i,  19) ; nevertheless,  “he  is,”  says 
Niebuhr  (Led.  Rom.  Hist.  1.  c.),  “ often  untrue,  and  his 
archa;ology  abounds  in  distortions  of  historical  facts,  and 
in  falsifications  which  arise  'rom  his  inordinate  national 
pride ; and  wherever  he  deals  in  numbers,  he  shows  his 
Oriental  love  of  exaggeration”  (this  charge  is,  in  a meas- 
ure, refuted,  however,  in  Stud.  a.  Krit.  1853,  p.  48).  But, 
even  though  Josephus  may  not  in  all  things  be  implic- 
itly relied  upon,  his  writings  are  to  the  theologian  espe- 
cially invaluable,  and  we  may  well  say,  with  Casaubon 
and  Farrar,  that  it  is  by  a singular  providence  that  his 
works,  which  throw  such  a Hood  of  light  on  Jewish  af- 
fairs, have  been  preserved  to  us.  They  are  of  immense 
service  in  the  entire  Biblical  department,  as  may  be  seen 
from  the  frequent  references  that  have  been  made  to  his 
writings  throughout  this  Cyclopaedia,  in  the  elucidation 
of  the  history,  geography,  and  archeology  of  Scripture. 
Yet  by  this  it  must  bv  no  means  be  inferred  that  we 
detract  in  the  least  from  our  former  statement,  that  Jo- 
sephus was  not  a man  who  believed  iu  the  inspiration 
of  the  Biblical  writings.  “In  spite  of  his  constant  as- 
sertions (.Iwt.  x,  11),”  says  Farrar  (in  Kitto),  “he  can 
have  had  no  real  respect  for  the  writings  which  he  so 
largely  illustrates.  If  he  had  felt,  as  a Jew,  any  deep 
or  religions  appreciation  of  the  O.-T.  history,  which  he 
professes  to  follow  (oviiii’  TrpoScig  ov8'  av  ~apaXnron>, 
Ant.  i,  procem.),  he  Mould  not  have  tampered  with  it  as 


1024 


JOSEPHUS 


JOSEPHUS 

he  does,  mixing  it  with  pseudo-philosophical  fancies 
{A  pion,  i,  10),  with  groundless  Jewish  Uagaduth  or  tra- 
ditions (such  as  the  three  years’  war  of  Moses  with  the 
Ethiopians,  the  love  of  Tharbis  for  him,  etc.:  Ant.  ii, 
10, 2),  and  with  quotations  from  heathen  writers  of  very 
doubtful  authority  (.-In/,  viii,  5,  3,  etc.;  see  Van  Dale, 
I)v  I l ist'  d,  p.  2 1 1 ).  The  worst  charge,  however,  against 
him  is  his  constant  attempt,  by  alterations  and  suppres- 
sions (and  especially  by  a rationalistic  method  of  deal- 
ing with  miracles,  which  contrasts  strangely  with  his 
credulous  fancies),  to  make  Jewish  history  palatable  to 
Greeks  and  Romans,  to  such  an  extent  that  J.  Ludolfus 
calls  him  ‘ tabulator  srepius  quam  liistoricus’  (/ list . 
Kthiop.  p.  230).  Thus  he  omits  all  the  most  important 
Messianic  prophecies;  he  manipulates  the  book  of  Dan- 
iel in  a most  unsatisfactory  manner  (.4wf.  ix,  11);  he 
speaks  in  a very  loose  way  about  Moses  and  Abraham 
(.1  nt.  i.  8, 1 ; A pion,  ii,  15) ; and,  though  he  can  swallow 
the  romance  of  the  pseudo- Aristeas,  he  rationalizes  the 
account  of  the  Exodus  and  Jonah’s  whale  {Ant.  ii,  16,  5; 
ix,  10,  2).”  On  the  whole  subject  of  his  credibility  as  a 
writer,  his  omissions,  his  variations,  and  his  panderings 
to  Gentile  taste,  comp.  J.  A.  Fabricins,  I)e  Joseph,  et  cjus 
Script  it,  in  Hudson's  cd. ; Van  Dale,  De  Arislea,  x,  xi; 
lie  hlulolatrid,  vii ; Brincli,  Examen  Hist.  Flav.  Josepln, 
in  Ilnvereamp,  ii,  309  sq.;  Ottius,  Spicileginm  ex  Jose-  i 
pho ; lttigins,  Prolegomena  ; Usher,  Epist.  ad  Lud.  Cap- 
pettum , p.  42 ; Whiston’s  Dissertations , etc. 

Of  still  greater  interest,  perhaps,  to  our  readers  must 
be  the  rclatiou  which  Josephus,  living  as  he  did  in  the 
age  of  Christ  himself,  sustained  towards  Christianity. 
Some  have  gone  so  far  as  to  assert  not  only  the  authen- 
ticity of  passages  in  his  writings  alluding  to  Christ,  etc. 
(see  below),  but  have  even  made  out  of  Josephus  an 
Ebionite  Christian  (Whiston,  Dissert,  i).  if  not  a true 
follower  of  Jesus  the  Christ.  Prof.  Farrar  (in  Kitto), 
speaking  on  this  point,  says : “ Nothing  is  more  certain 
than  that  Josephus  was  no  Christian  ( cnricrriov  rip  Irj- 
<J oo  on]  Xpionp,  Grig.  c.  Cels,  i,  35)  ; the  whole  tone  of 
his  mind  was  alien  irom  the  noble  simplicity  of  Chris- 
tian belief,  and,  as  we  have  seen  already,  he  was  not 
even  a good  Jew.  Whatever,  therefore,  may  be  thought 
about  the  passages  alluding  to  John  the  Baptist  (.4 nt. 
xviii,  5,  2),  ami , lames,  ‘the  Lord’s  brother’  (ibid,  xx,  9, 
1),  which  mav  possibly  be  genuine,  there  can  be  no  rea- 
sonable doubt  that  the  famous  allusion  to  Christ  (.Inf. 
xviii,  3. 3)  is  either  absolutely  spurious  or  largely  inter- 
polated. The  silence  [partial  or  total]  of  Josephus  on 
a subject  of  such  importance,  and  with  which  he  must 
have  been  so  thoroughly  acquainted,  is  easily  explica- 
ble; and  it  is  intrinsically  much  more  probable  that  he 
should  have  passed  over  the  subject  altogether  (as  is 
done  also  bv  his  contemporary,  Justus  of  Tiberias,  Phot. 
Cod.  Jiibl.  33)  than  that  he  should  only  have  devoted 
to  it  a few  utterly  inadequate  lines.  Even  if  he  had 
been  induced  to  do  this  by  some  vague  hope  of  getting 
something  by  it  from  Christians  like  Flavius  Clemens, 
be  certainly  would  not  have  expressed  himself  in  lan- 
guage so  strong  (ttyf  uvopet  abrbv  Xtyeiv  yp//),  and 
still  less  would  he  have  vouched  for  the  Mcssiahship, 
the  miracles,  or  t he  resurrection  of  Jesus.  Justin,  Ter- 
tulliau,  Chrysostom,  Origen,  and  even  Phot  ins,  knew 
not  lung  of  the  passage,  nor  does  it  appear  till  the  time 
of  Eusebius  {Hist,  heel,  i,  '2;  Dem.  Evang.  iii,  5),  a man 
for  whom  Niebuhr  can  lind  no  better  name  than  ‘a  de- 
testable falsilier,’  and  one  whose  historical  credibility  is 
tvell  nigh  given  up.  Whether  Eusebius  forged  it  him-  I 
self  or  borrowed  it  from  the  marginalia  of  some  Chris- 
tian reader  cannot  be  determined,  but  that  Josephus  did  1 
not  write  it  [at  least  in  its  present  form]  may  be  re- 
garded as  settled.  Nav,  the  very  next  sentence  {Ant. 
xvii,3,  4)  is  a disgusting  story,  wholly  irrelevant  to  the 
tenor  of  the  narrative,  and  introduced  in  all  probabilitv 
for  the  sole  purpose  of  a blasphemous  parody  on  the  mi- 
raculous conception,  such  as  was  attempted  by  various 
Rabbinical  writers  (e.  g.  in  the  Sepher  Tolednfh  Jeshua  ; 
Bee  \\  agenseil,  Tela  lynea  Satance;  see  J list’s  Christ). 


That  Josephus  intended  obliquely  to  discredit  some  of 
the  chief  Christian  doctrines  by  representing  them  as 
having  been  anticipated  by  the  Essenes  seems  by  no 
means  improbable  (com]).  De  Quincey’s  Works,  vol.  ix, 
The  Essenes).”  For  a compendium  of  the  abundant  lit- 
erature on  these  questions,  see  Gieseler,  Eccl.  llist.  sec. 
34.  The  chief  treatises  are,  Daubuz,  Pro  testimonio  FI. 
Jos.  deJesu  Christ  (London,  1706) ; reprinted  in  llaver- 
camp;  Bbhmert,  Ueber  des  FI.  Jos.  Zeugniss  von  Christo 
(Lpz.  1823) ; Le  Moyne,  Yar.  Sacr.  ii,  931 , Heiniclien, 
Excurs.  I.  ad  Euseb.  11.  E.  iii,  331  ; comp,  also  Langen, 
Judenthum  in  Palastina  (Freib.  1866),  p.  440  sq. ; Stud, 
it.  Krit.  1856,  840  sq. 

It  remains  for  us  only  to  add  a list  of  the  worlcs  of  Jose- 
phus (here  we  mainly  follow  Smith  [ Diet.  Gr.and  Rom. 
Biog.  s.  v.]),  which  are,  1.  A History  of  the  Jewish  War, 
(wept  rov  ’lovfa'iicov  7ro\kpov  i]  Io vCaingg  ioTopiag  rnpi 
uXwouotj),  in  seven  books.  Josephus  tells  us  that  he 
wrote  it  first  in  his  own  language  (the  Syro-Clialdee), 
and  then  translated  it  into  Greek,  for  the  information  of 
European  readers  ( War,  i,  1).  The  original  is  no  longer 
extant.  The  Greek  was  published  about  A.D.  75,  under 
the  patronage  and  with  the  especial  recommendation 
of  Titus.  Agrippa  II,  also,  in  no  fewer  than  sixty-two 
letters  to  Josephus,  bore  testimony  to  the  care  and  fidel- 
ity displayed  in  it.  It  was  admitted  into  the  Palatine 
library,  and  its  author  was  honored  with  a statue  at 
Rome.  It  commences  with  the  capture  of  Jerusalem 
by  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  B.C.  170 ; runs  rapidly  over  the 
events  before  Josephus’s  own  time,  and  gives  a detailed 
account  of  the  fatal  war  with  Rome  (Josephus,  Life,  p. 
65;  Eusebius.  Hist.  Eccles.  iii,  9;  Jerome,  Catal.  Script. 
Eccl.  p.  13;  lttigins, Prolegomena ; Fabricius,  Bibl.  Crete. 
v,  4 ; Vossius,  De  llist.  Gnec.  p.  239,  ed.  Westermann) : — 
2.  Jewish  Antiquities  (’lovda'aci)  apyatoXoyin),  in  twen- 
ty books,  completed  about  A.D.  93,  and  addressed  to 
Epaphroditns.  The  title,  as  well  as  the  number  of  books, 
may  have  been  suggested  by  the  P wpciiKi}  dpxaioXoyia 
of  Dionysius  of  Halicarnassus.  The  work  extends  from 
the  creation  of  the  world  to  A.D.  66,  the  12th  year  of 
Nero,  in  which  the  Jews  were  goaded  to  rebellion  by 
Gessius  Floras.  It  embraces,  therefore,  but  more  in  de- 
tail, much  of  the  matter  of  the  first  and  second  books 
on  the  Jewish  War.  Both  these  histories  are  said  to 
have  been  translated  into  Hebrew,  of  which  version, 
however,  there  are  no  traces,  though  some  have  er- 
roneously identified  it  with  the  works  of  the  Pscudo- 
Joseplms.  See  Joseph  ben-Gorion’  : — 3.  His  Life,  in 
one  book.  This  is  an  autobiography  appended  to  the 
Antiquities , ami  is  addressed  to  the  same  Epaphroditns. 
It  cannot,  however,  have  been  written  earlier  than  A.D. 
97,  since  Agrippa  II  is  mentioned  in  it  as  no  longer  liv- 
ing (65) : — 4.  Kart)  ’Awi  oj  vng  (a  treatise  against  A pion), 
in  two  books,  also  addressed  to  Epapliroditus.  It  is  in 
answer  to  such  as  impugned  the  antiquity  of  the  Jew- 
ish nation  on  the  ground  of  the  silence  of  Greek  writers 
respecting  it.  The  title,  “against  Apion,”  is  rather  a 
misnomer,  and  is  applicable  only  to  a portion  of  the 
seeond  book  (1-13).  It  exhibits  considerable  learning, 
and  is  highly  commended  by  Jerome.  The  Greek  text 
is  deficient  at  ii,  5-9: — 5.  The  Fourth  of  M aeeubees  {fig 
Maioca/laiorg,  i/  7rtpi  abroicpdropog  Xoyarpov),  in  one 
book.  The  genuineness  of  this  treatise  lias  been  called 
in  question  by  many  (see  Cave,  llist.  Lit.  Script.  Ec- 
cles. p.  22),  but  it  is  attributed  to  Josephus  by  Eusebius, 
Jerome,  Philostorgius,  and  others  (see  Fabricius,  Bibl. 
Grwc.  v,  7 ; lttigins,  Prolegomena).  Certainly,  howev- 
er, it  does  not  read  like  his  works.  It  is  an  extreme- 
ly declamatory  account  of  the  martyrdom  of  Eleazar 
(an  aged  priest),  and  of  seven  youths  and  their  moth- 
er, in  the  persecution  under  Antiochus  Epiphanes ; 
and  this  is  prefaced  by  a discussion  on  the  suprem- 
acy which  reason  possesses  de  jure  over  pleasure  and 
pain.  Its  title  has  reference  to  the  zeal  for  God’s 
law  displayed  by  the  sufferers  in  the  spirit  of  the  Mac- 
cabees. There  is  a paraphrase  of  it  by  Erasmus,  and 
in  some  Greek  copies  of  the  Bible  it  was  inserted  as  the 


JOSES 


1025 


JOSHUA 


fourth  book  of  the  Maccabees  (Fabricius,  l.  c.).  There 
are,  besides  these,  also  attributed  to  him  : — 6.  The  treat- 
ise Hipi  tov  TravTog,  which  was  certainly  not  writteu 
by  Josephus.  For  an  account  of  it,  see  Photius,  Cod. 
xlviii ; Fabricius,  Bill.  Grcec.  v,  8 ; Ittigins,  Prolegomena, 
ad  tin. : — 7.  Jerome  (Prof.  ad  Lib . xi  Comm,  ad  Esai- 
am ) speaks  of  a work  of  oiie  Josephus  on  Daniel’s  vision 
of  the  seventy  weeks,  but  he  probably  refers  to  some 
other  Josephus : — 8.  At  the  end  of  his  Antiquities  Jose- 
phus mentions  his  intention  of  -writing  a work  in  four 
books  on  the  Jewish  notions  of  God  and  his  essence, 
and  on  the  rationale  of  the  Mosaic  law's,  but  this  task  he 
never  accomplished.  At  any  rate,  the  works  have  not 
come  down  to  us.  (See  Whiston’s  note,  A nt.  ad  tin. ; Fa- 
bricius, Bib/.  Greec.  v,  9.) 

The  writings  of  Josephus  first  appeared  in  print  in  a 
Latin  translation,  with  no  notice  of  the  place  or  date  of 
publication:  the  edition  seems  to  have  contained  only  a 
portion  of  the  Antiquities.  These,  w'itli  the  seven  books 
of  the  Jew'ish  War,  were  reprinted  by  Schiislcr  (Augsb. 
1470)  in  Latin;  and  there  were  many  editions  in  the 
same  language  of  the  w'hole  works,  and  of  portions  of 
them,  before  the  editio  princeps  of  the  Greek  text  ap- 
peared at  Basel,  1544,  edited  by  Arlenius.  Since  then 
the  works  of  Josephus  have  frequently  been  printed, 
both  in  the  Greek  and  in  many  other  languages.  One 
of  the  most  valuable  editions  is  that  by  Hudson  (Oxf. 
1720,  2 vols.  fol.).  The  text  is  founded  on  a most  care- 
ful and  extensive  collation  of  MSS.,  and  the  edition  is 
further  enriched  by  notes  and  indices.  The  principal 
English  versions  are  those  of  Lodge  (Loud.  1602);  one 
from  the  French  of  D’Andillv  (Oxford,  167G,  reprinted 
at  London,  1683);  that  of  L’Estrange  (Lond.  1702),  and 
that  of  Whiston  (London,  1737).  The  two  last-men- 
tioned versions  have  frequently  been  reprinted  in  vari- 
ous shapes.  See,  besides  the  authorities  already  no- 
ticed, Griitz,  Geschichte  d.Juden,  iii,  399  sq. ; Weber  and 
Holtzmann,  Gesch.  d.  Judenth.  ii,  467  sq. ; Jost,  Gesch.  d. 
Judenth.  u.  s.  Sekten,  i,  225,  319,  444;  De  Wette,  llebr. 
jiid.  Archaologie,  p.  9;  Ewrald,  Gesch.  Christus  (1855),  p. 
104  sq. ; Milman,  Hist,  of  the  Jews,  vol.  ii  (see  Index  in 
vol.  iii) ; Smith,  Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Biog.  s.  v. ; Fiirst, 
Bibliotheca  Judaica,  ii,  117  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Jo  rses  (’I toai'/g,  perhaps  for  Joseph,  which  is  some- 
times thus  written  in  the  Talmud,  for  CjOi*1;  see 
Lightfoot  on  Acts  i,  23;  and,  indeed,  ’\war\<f>  actually 
appears  in  some  codices  for  ’I waijc  in  Matt.,  Mark  xv, 
and  Acts ; but  better  MSS.  have  ’Uodrvrjg  in  Matt,  xiii ; 
others  have  ’1  qrravc  in  Luke),  the  name  of  two  or  three 
persous  in  the  New  Testament. 

1.  Erroneously  in  the  A.  V.  (Luke  iii,  29)  “Jose” 
(q.v.). 

2.  The  son  of  Mary  and  Cleopas,  and  brother  of  James 
the  Less,  of  Simon,  and  of  Jude,  and,  consequently,  one 
of  those  who  are  called  “the  brethren”  of  our  Lord 
(Matt,  xiii,  55 ; xxvii,  56 ; Mark  vi,  3 ; xv,  40, 47).  See 
James  ; Jude.  He  was  the  only  one  of  these  brethren 
who  was  not  an  apostle  — a circumstance  which  has 
given  occasion  to  some  unsatisfactory  conjecture.  It  is, 
perhaps,  more  remarkable  that  three  of  them  wrere  apos- 
tles than  that  the  fourth  was  not.  A.D.  28. — Kitto. 
See  Jesus  Christ. 

3.  (Acts  iv,  36.)  See  Barnabas. 

Jo'shah  (Heb.  Yoshah',  prob.  establisher ; 

Sept.  'Iwoiae,  v.  r.  T waia  ; Vulg.  Josa),  son  of  Ama- 
ziah,  and  one  of  the  chief  Simeouites.  the  increase  of 
whose  family  induced  them  to  migrate  to  the  valley  of 
Gedor,  whence  they  expelled  the  aboriginal  Hamites 
(1  Chron.  iv,  34).  B.C.  eir.  711. 

Josh'apliat  (1  Chron.  xi,  43).  See  Jeiiosha- 

PHAT,  1. 

Joshavi'ah  (Heb.  Yoshavyah',  i“P)l'£jV\  Jekovah  is 
sufficient,  otherwise  i.  q.  Josibiah  ; Sept.  Twer/ a ; Vulg. 
Josaja),  son  of  Elnaam,  and  (with  his  brother  Jeribai) 
one  of  David’s  famous  body-guard  (1  Chron.  xi,  46). 
B.C.  1046. 


J oshbek'ashali  (Heb . Yoshbekashah',  irapS'CT, 
prob.  for  irrpS  3 Up,  seat  in  hardness ; Sept. 
rdv  and  ’itafiaKardv  v.  r.  ’itofSatraKa  ; Vulg.  Jesbaeas- 
sa),  one  of  the  sons  of  Heman,  aud  leader  of  the  seven- 
teenth division  of  Temple  musicians  (1  Chron.  xxv,  4, 
24).  B.  C.  1014. 

J o'sheb-bas'sebeth  (Heb.  Yosheb'-bash-Slie'beth, 
sitting  in  the  session,  i.  e.  council ; Sept. 
’ItfiooBi ; Vulg.  sedens  in  cathedra;  Autli.  Vers.  “ that 
sat  in  the  seat”),  the  chief  of  David’s  three  principal 
heroes  (2  Sam.  xxiii,  8) ; called  in  the  parallel  passage 
(1  Chron. xi,  11)  .Jashobeam  (q.v.). 

Josh'ua  (Heb.  Yehoshu'd,  SpUjiiT',  Jehovah  is  his 
help , or  Jehovah  the  Saviour,  according  to  Pearson,  On 
the  Creed,  art.  ii,  p.  89,  ed.  1843 ; Sept.,  N.  T.,  aud  Jose- 
phus ’D/<tou£;  Autli.  Vers.  “Jehoshua”  in  Numb,  xiii, 
16,  aud  “ Jehoshuali”  in  1 Chron.  vii,  27 ; “ Jesus”  in  Acts 
vii,  45 ; Heb.  iv,  8 , comp.  Jeshua  ; Jesus),  the  name  of 
sevoral  men. 

1.  The  son  of  Nun,  of  the  tribe  of  Ephraim,  the  as- 
sistant and  successor  of  Moses,  -whose  history  is  chiefly 
contained  in  the  book  that  bears  his  name.  His  name 
was  originally  Hoshea  (7^ "H,  salvation,  Numb,  xiii, 
8\  and  it  seems  that  the  subsequent  alteration  of  it  by 
Moses  (Numb,  xiii,  16)  was  significant,  and  proceeded 
on  the  same  principle  as  that  of  Abram  into  Abraham 
(Gen.  xvii,  5),  and  of  Sarai  into  Sarah  (Gen.  xvii,  15). 
In  Nch.  viii,  17,  he  is  called  by  the  equivalent  name 
Jeshua  (SpUp,  salvation).  See  Jesus. 

1.  Personal  History. — According  to  the  Tsemach  Da- 
vid, Joshua  was  born  in  Egypt,  in  the  year  of  the  Jewish 
a.*ra  2406  (B.C.  1037)  ; but  as  he  was  probably  about  the 
age  of  Caleb,  with  whom  he  was  associated,  we  may  as- 
sign his  birth  to  B.C.  cir.  1698  (or,  as  below,  1693).  The 
future  captain  of  invading  hosts  grew  up  a slave  in  the 
brick-fields  of  Egypt.  Born  about  the  time  when  Mo- 
ses fled  into  Midian,  he  was  a man  of  some  forty  years 
when  he  saw  the  ten  plagues  and  shared  in  the  hurried 
triumph  of  the  Exodus.  The  keen  eye  of  the  aged  Law- 
giver soon  discerned  in  Hoshea  those  qualities  which 
might  be  required  in  a colleague  or  successor  to  him- 
self. In  the  Bible  he  is  first  mentioned  as  being  the 
victorious  commander  of  the  Israelites  in  their  battik 
against  the  Amalekites  at  Ilephidim  (Exod.  xvii,  8-1 6*1. 
B.C.  1658.  When  Moses  aseended  Mount  Sinai  to  re- 
ceive for  the  first  time  (compare  Exod.  xxiv,  13,  a. id 
xxxiii,  11)  the  two  Tables,  Joshua,  who  is  called  his  min- 
ister or  servant,  accompanied  him  part  of  the  way,  and 
was  the  first  to  accost  him  in  his  descent  (Exod.  xxxii, 
17).  Soon  afterwards  he  was  one  of  the  twelve  chiefs 
who  were  sent  (Numb,  xiii,  17)  to  explore  the  land  of 
Canaan,  and  one  of  the  two  (xiv,  6)  who  gave  an  en- 
couraging report  of  their  journey.  B.C.  1657.  The 
forty  years  of  wandering  were  almost  passed,  and  Joshua 
was  one  of  the  few  survivors,  when  Moses,  shortly  be- 
fore his  death,  was  directed  (Numb,  xxvii,  18)  to  invest 
Joshua  solemnly  and  publicly  with  definite  authority, 
in  connection  with  Eleazar  the  priest,  over  the  people 
(Dent,  iii,  28).  After  this,  God  himself  gave  Joshua  a 
charge  by  the  mouth  of  the  dyiug  Lawgiver  (Dent, 
xxxi,  14,  23).  B.C.  1618.  Under  the  direction  of  God 
again  renewed  (Josh,  i,  1),  Joshua,  now  in  his  85tli  year 
(Josephus,  A?it,  v,  1,  29),  assumed  the  command  of  the 
people  at  Shittim,  sent  spies  into  Jericho,  crossed  the  Jor- 
dan, fortified  a camp  at  Gilgal,  circumcised  the  people, 
kept  the  Passover,  and  was  visited  by  the  captain  of  the 
Lord’s  host.  (See  below.)  A miracle  made  the  fall  of 
Jericho  more  terrible  to  the  Canaanites.  A miraculous 
repulse  in  the  first  assault  on  Ai  impressed  upon  the  in- 
vaders the  warning  that  they  were  the  instruments  of  a 
holy  and  jealous  God.  Ai  fell ; and  the  law  was  inscribed 
on  Mount  Ebal,  and  read  by  Their  leader  in  the  presence 
of  all  Israel.  The  treaty  which  the  fear-stricken  Gib- 
eonites  obtained  deceitfully  was  generously  respected  by 
Joshua.  It  stimulated  and  brought  to  a point  the  hos- 


IV. — T T T 


JOSHUA 


1026  JOSHUA 


tile  movements  of  the  five  confederate  chiefs  of  the  Am- 
orites.  Joshua,  aided  by  an  unprecedented  hailstorm 
and  a miraculous  prolongation  of  the  day  (see  below), 
obtained  a decisive  victory  over  them  at  Makkedah,  and 
proceeded  at  once  to  subjugate  the  south  country  as  far 
as  Kadcsh-barnea  and  Gaza.  He  returned  to  the  camp 
at  Gilgal  master  of  half  of  Palestine. 

In  another  campaign  he  marched  to  the  waters  of 
Merom,  where  he  met  and  overthrew  a confederacy  of 
the  C.inaanilish  chiefs  in  the  north,  under  Jabin,  king 
of  llazor;  and  in  the  course  of  a protracted  war  he  led 
his  victorious  soldiers  to  the  gates  of  Zidon  and  into  the 
valley  of  Lebanon  under  llermon.  In  six  years,  six  na- 
tions* with  thirty-one  kings,  swell  the  roll  of  his  con- 
quests; amongst  others  the  Anakim — the  old  terror  of 
Israel — are  specially  recorded  as  destroyed  everywhere 
except  in  Pliilistia.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  the 
extensive  conquests  of  Joshua  were  not  intended  to 
achieve,  and  did  not  achieve  the  complete  extirpation 
of  the  Canaanites,  many  of  whom  continued  to  occupy 
isolated  strongholds  throughout  the  land.  (See  below.) 

Joshua,  now  stricken  in  years,  proceeded,  in  conjunc- 
tion with  Eleazar  and  the  heads  of  the  tribes,  to  com- 
plete the  division  of  the  conquered  land ; and  when  all 
was  allotted,  Tinmath-serah  in  Mount  Ephraim  was  as- 
signed by  the  people  as  Joshua’s  peculiar  inheritance. 
The  tabernacle  of  the  congregation  was  established  at 
Shiloh,  six  cities  of  refuge  were  appointed,  forty-eight 
cities  assigned  to  the  Levites,  and  the  warriors  of  the 
trans-Jordanic  tribes  dismissed  in  peace  to  their  homes. 

After  an  interval  of  rest,  Joshua  convoked  an  assem- 
bly from  all  Israel.  He  delivered  two  solemn  addresses 
reminding  them  of  the  marvelous  fulfilment  of  God’s 
promises  to  their  fathers,  and  warned  them  of  the  condi- 
tions on  which  their  prosperity  depended ; and,  lastly, 
he  caused  them  to  renew  their  covenant  with  God  at 
►Shechem,  a place  already  famous  in  connection  with 
Jacob  (Gen.  xxxv,  4)  an  i Joseph  (Josh,  xxiv,  32).  He 
died  at  the  age  of  110  years,  and  was  buried  in  his  own 
city,  Timnath-serah  (Josh.  xxiv).  B.C.  1593.  Accord- 
ing to  Schwarz  {Palest,  p.  147),  his  grave,  ornamented 
with  a handsome  monument,  is  still  pointed  out  at  Ke- 
l'ar  Charas. 

2.  If  is  Character. — Joshua’s  life  has  been  noted  as 
one  of  the  very  few  which  are  recorded  in  history  with 
some  fulness  of  detail,  yet  without  any  stain  upon  them. 
In  his  character  have  been  traced,  under  an  Oriental 
garb,  such  features  as  chiefly  kindled  the  imagination 
of  Western  chroniclers  and  poets  in  the  Middle  Ages : 
the  character  of  a devout  warrior,  blameless  and  fear- 
less, who  has  been  taught  by  serving  as  a youth  how  to 
command  as  a man ; who  earns  by  manly  vigor  a quiet, 
honored  old  age;  who  combines  strength  with  gentle- 
ness, ever  looking  up  for  and  obeying  the  divine  im- 
pulse with  the  simplicity  of  a child,  while  he  wields 
great  power  and  directs  it  calmly,  and  without  swerv- 
ing, to  the  accomplishment  of  a high,  unselfish  purpose. 

All  that  part  of  the  book  of  Joshua  which  relates  his 
personal  history  seems  to  be  written  with  the  uncon- 
scious, vivid  power  of  an  eye-witness.  We  arc  not  mere- 
ly taught  to  look  with  a distant  reverence  upon  the  first 
man  who  bears  the  name  which  is  above  every  name. 
We  stand  by  the  side  of  one  who  is  admitted  to  hear 
the  words  of  God,  and  see  the  vision  of  the  Almighty. 
The  image  of  the  armed  warrior  is  before  us  as  when  in 
the  sight  of  two  armies  he  lifted  up  his  spear  over  un- 
guarded Ai.  We  see  the  majestic  presence  which  in- 
spired all  Israel  (iv,  14)  with  awe;  the  mild  father  who 
remonstrated  with  Achan;  the  calm,  dignified  judge  who 
pronounced  his  sentence;  the  devoted  worshipper  pros- 
trating himself  before  the  captain  of  the  Lord’s  host. 
W c see  the  lonely  man  in  the  height  of  his  power,  sep- 
arate from  those  about  him,  the  last  survivor,  save  one 
of  a famous  generation  ; the  honored  old  man  of  many 
deeds  and  many  sufferings,  gathering  his  dying  energy 
or  an  attempt  to  bind  his  people  more  closelv  to  the 
service  of  God  whom  he  had  so  long  served  and  wor- 


shipped, and  whom  he  was  ever  learning  to  know  more 
and  more. 

The  great  work  of  Joshua’s  life  was  more  exeiting 
but  less  hopeful  than  that  of  Moses.  He  gathered  the 
first  fruits  of  the  autumn  harvest  where  his  predecessor 
had  sown  the  seed  in  spring.  It  was  a high  and  inspir- 
ing task  to  watch  beside  the  cradle  of  a mighty  nation, 
and  to  train  its  early  footsteps  in  laws  which  should  last 
for  centuries;  and  it  was  a fit  end  to  a life  of  expecta- 
tion to  gaze  with  longing  eyes  from  Pisgah  upon  the 
Land  of  Promise.  But  no  such  brightness  gleamed  upon 
the  calm  close  of  Joshua’s  life.  Solemn  words,  and  dark 
with  foreboding,  fell  from  him  as  he  sat  “ under  the  oak 
that  was  by  the  sanctuary  of  the  Lord  in  Shechem.” 
The  excitement  of  his  battles  wras  past;  and  there  had 
grown  up  in  the  mind  of  the  pious  leader  a conscious- 
ness that  it  is  the  tendency  of  prosperity  and  success  to 
make  a people  wanton  and  worldly-minded,  idolaters  in 
spirit  if  not  in  act,  and  to  alienate  them  from  God. 

Holy  Scripture  itself  suggests  (Ileb.  iv,  8)  the  consid- 
eration of  Joshua  as  a type  of  Christ.  Many  of  the 
Christian  fathers  have  enlarged  upon  this  view;  and 
Bishop  Pearson,  who  has  collected  their  opinions  ( On  the 
Creed , art.  ii,  p.  87-90,  and  94-96,  ed.  1843),  points  out 
the  following  and  many  other  typical  resemblances:  (1.) 
the  name  common  to  both ; (2.)  Joshua  brings  the  peo- 
ple of  God  into  the  land  of  promise,  and  divides  the  land 
among  the  tribes;  Jesus  brings  his  people  into  the  pres- 
ence of  God,  and  assigns  to  them  their  mansions;  (3.) 
as  Joshua  succeeded  Moses  and  completed  his  work,  so 
the  Gospel  of  Christ  succeeding  the  law,  announced  One 
by  whom  all  that  believe  axe  justified  from  all  things 
from  which  we  could  not  be  justified  by  the  Law  of 
Moses  (Acts  xiii,  39) ; (4.)  as  Joshua,  the  minister  of 
Moses,  renewed  the  rite  of  circumcision,  so  Jesus,  the 
minister  of  the  circumcision,  brought  in  the  circumcis- 
ion of  the  heart  (Rom.  xv,  8 ; ii,  29). 

3.  Difficulties  in  his  Narrative. — It  has  been  question- 
ed whether  the  captain  of  the  Lord’s  host  (ch.  v,  13-15) 
was  a created  being  or  not.  Dr.  W. II. Mill  discusses 
this  point  at  full  length  and  with  great  learning,  and 
decides  in  favor  of  the  former  alternative  (On  the  Histor- 
ical Character  o f St.  Luke's  First  Chapter.  Camb.  1841, 
p.  92).  But  J.  G.  Abieht  ( De  Dnce  Exercitus , etc.,  ap. 
Nov.  Thes.  Theologico-philolog.  i,  503)  is  of  opinion  that 
he  was  the  uncreated  angel,  the  Son  of  God.  Compare 
also  Pfeiffer,  Diffi.  Script.  Loc.  p.  173.  See  Angel. 

The  treatment  of  the  Canaanites  by  their  Jewish  con- 
querors is  fully  discussed  by  Dean  Graves,  On  the  Penta- 
teuch, pt.  iii,  lect.  i.  He  concludes  that  the  extermina- 
tion of  the  Canaanites  was  justified  by  their  crimes,  and 
that  the  employment  of  the  Jews  in  such  extermination 
was  quite  consistent  with  God’s  method  of  governing 
the  world.  Professor  Fairbaim  (Typology  of  Scripture, 
bk.  iii,  ch.  4,  § 1,  ed.  1854)  argues  with  great  force  and 
candor  in  favor  of  the  complete  agreement  of  the  princi- 
ples on  which  the  war  was  carried  on  by  Joshua  with 
the  principles  of  the  Christian  dispensation.  See  Ca- 
naanites. 

Among  the  supernatural  occurrences  in  the  life  of 
Joshua,  none  has  led  to  so  much  discussion  as  the  pro- 
longation of  the  day  of  the  battle  of  Makkedah  (x,  Pi- 
ll). No  great  difficulty  is  found,  in  deciding  as  Pfeiffer 
has  done  (Diffi.  Script  Joe.  p.  175)  between  the  lengths 
of  this  day  and  that  of  Ilezekiah  (2  Kings  xx,  11),  and 
in  connecting  both  days  with  the  Egyptian  tradition 
mentioned  by  Herodotus,  ii,  142.  But  since  modern  sci- 
ence revealed  the  stupendous  character  of  this  miracle, 
modern  criticism  has  made  several  attempts  to  explain 
it  aw  ay.  It  is  regarded  by  Le  Clere,  Dathe,  and  others 
as  no  miracle,  but  an  optical  illusion ; by  Eosenmuller, 
following  Ilgen,  as  a mistake  of  the  time  of  day;  by 
Winer  and  many  recent  German  critics,  with  whom  Dr. 
Davidson  (Introd.to  O.  T.  p.  644)  seems  to  agree,  as  a 
mistake  of  the  meaning  or  the  authority  of  a poetieal 
contributor  to  the  book  of  Jasher.  So  Ewald  ( Gesch . 
Isr.  ii,  326)  traces  in  the  latter  part  of  verse  13  an  in- 


JOSHUA 


1027 


JOSHUA 


terpolation  by  the  hand  of  that  anonymous  Jew  whom 
he  supposes  to  have  written  the  book  of  Deuteronomy, 
and  here  to  have  misunderstood  the  vivid  conception  of 
an  old  poet;  and  he  cites  numerous  similar  conceptions 
from  the  old  poetry  of  Greece,  Rome,  Arabia,  and  Peru. 
But  the  literal  and  natural  interpretation  of  the  text,  as 
intended  to  describe  a miracle,  is  sufficiently  vindicated 
by  Deyling,  Observ.  Sacr . i,  § 19,  p.  100 ; and  J.  G.  Abicht, 
De  stutione  Solis  ap.  Nov.  Thes.  TheoL-philol.  i,  516 ; and 
is  forcibly  stated  by  Bishop  Watson  in  the  fourth  letter 
in  his  Apology  for  the  Bible.  Barzillai  ( Josua  und  die 
Sonne , from  the  Italian,  Trieste,  1869)  understands  the 
word  D'H,  “stand  still”  (lit.  be  dumb),  to  signify  mere- 
ly cease  to  shine,  and  the  expression  “ hasted  not  to  go 
down  a whole  day”  as  equivalent  to  withheld  its  full 
light ! — in  other  words,  there  was  an  eclipse:  how  this 
could  be  of  sendee  to  the  Hebrews  does  not  appear. 
See  Gibeon;  J asher. 

4.  Length  of  his  Administration. — According  to  Jo- 
sephus {Ant.  v,  1,  29),  Joshua  commanded  the  Jews 
twenty-five  years,  but,  according  to  other  Jewish  ehro- 
nologers,  twenty-seven  years.  The  Tsemack  David,  on 
the  years  of  the  Jewish  era  2489  and  2496,  remarks : 
“ It  is  written  in  the  Seder  Olam  that  Joshua  judged  Is- 
rael twenty-five  years,  commencing  from  the  year  2488, 
immediately  from  the  death  of  Moses,  to  the  year  2516. 
This,  however,  would  not  be  known  to  us  but  for  cabal- 
istic tradition,  but  in  some  degree  also  by  reasoning,” 
etc.  Ilottiuger  {Smegma,  p. 469)  says:  “According  to 
the  Midrash,  Rahab  was  ten  years  old  when  the  Israel- 
ites left  Egypt;  she  played  the  harlot  during  the  forty 
years  in  which  the  Israelites  were  in  the  desert.  She 
became  the  wife  of  Joshua,  and  eight  prophets  descend- 
ed frem  her,  viz.  Jeremiah,  Mahasia,  Hanamael,  Shal- 
lum,  Baruch,  Ezekiel.  Some  say  also  that  Huldah  the 
prophetess  was  her  descendant.”  Some  chronologers 
have  endeavored  to  reduce  the  rule  of  Joshua  to  seven- 
teen, and  others  to  twenty-one  years.  There  is  no  good 
reason  for  departing  from  the  number  assigned  by  Jo- 
sephus (see  Meth.  Quar.Rev.  1856,  p.  450).  See  Chro- 
nology. 

5.  Other  Traditionary  Notices. — Lightfoot  {ITor.  Ileb. 
in  Matt,  i,  5,  and  Chorogr.  Lucee  preemis.  iv,  § 3)  quotes 
Jewish  traditions  likewise  to  the  effect  that  the  sep- 
ulchre of  Joshua  was  adorned  with  an  image  of  the  sun 
in  memory  of  the  miracle  of  Ajalon.  The  Sept,  and  the 
AraUVer.  add  to  Josh,  xxiv,  30  the  statement  that  in 
his  sepulchre  were  deposited  the  flint-knives  which  were 
used  for  the  circumcision  at  Gilgal  (Josh,  v,  2). 

There  also  occur  some  vestiges  of  the  deeds  of  Joshua 
in  other  historians  besides  those  of  his  own  country. 
Procopius  mentions  a Phoenician  inscription  near  the 
city  of  Tingis  in  Mauritania,  the  sense  of  which  was : 
“ We  are  those  who  fled  before  the  face  of  Joshua  the 
robber,  the  son  of  Nun”  {De  Bell.  1 ’andal.  ii,  10).  Suhlas 
(sub  voce  Xavaav ):  “We  are  the  Canaanites  whom 
Joshua  the  robber  persecuted.”  Compare  Fabricii  Co- 
dex Pseudepigraphus  Veteris  Testamenti,  i,  889  sq.,  and 
the  doubts  respecting  this  statement  in  Dale,  De  Origine 
et  Progressu  Idolatriee,  p.  749  sq.  Ewald  {Gesch.  Isr. 
ii,  297,  298)  gives  sound  reasons  for  forbearing  to  use 
this  story  as  authentic  histon\  It  is,  however,  accept- 
ed by  Rawlinson  ( Bampton  Lecture  for  1859,  iii,  91). 
A letter  of  Sliaubech,  “pYJ,  king  of  Armenia  Minor,  in 
the  Samaritan  book  of  Joshua  (ch.  xxvi),  styles  Joshua 
blTXpPX  Z'lbx,  lupus  percussor,  “the  murderous 
wolf;”  or,  according  to  another  reading  in  the  book 
Juchasin  (p.  154,  f.  1),  and  in  the  Shalsheleth  Rakkabba- 
lah  (p.  96),  nm?  -XT,  lupus  vespertinus,  “ the  evening 
wolf”  (comp.  Hab.  i,  8 ; Hottinger,  Ilistoria  Orientalis, 
Tiguri,  1651,  p.  40  sq. ; Buddeus,  Hist.  Eccles.  p.  964  sq.). 
A comparison  of  Hercules,  according  to  the  Phoenician 
and  Greek  mythology,  with  Joshua  has  been  attempted 
by  Ilercklitz  {Quod  Hercules  idem  sit  ac  Josua,  Lipsias, 
1706;  comp.  Anton.  Compar.  libror.  sac.  U.  T,  et  scrjjyf. 
profan.  iv,  v,  Gorlic.  1817). — Kitto ; Smith. 


6.  A dditiondl  Literature  on  Joshua  personally,  and  his 
Exploits. — The  principal  occurrences  in  the  life  of  Joshua 
are  reviewed  by  Bishop  Hall  in  his  Contemplations  on  the 
O.  T.bks.  7,  8,  and  9.  See  also  T.  Smith,  Hist,  of  Joshua 
(Lond.  1862);  Overton,  Life  of  Joshua  (Lond.  1866); 
Hess , Gesch.  Josuas  (Ziir.  1759);  Masius,  Josua  historic* 
(Antw.  1754) ; Plumptre,  Hist,  of  Joshua  (Lond.  1818). 

JOSHUA,  Book  of,  the  first  in  order  of  the  E"X“Z3 
C"3VjX"i,  or  Former  Prophets  in  the  Hebrew  Canon. 
See  Bible.  It  is  so  called  from  the  personage  who  oc- 
cupies the  principal  place  in  the  narration  of  events  con- 
tained therein,  and  may  be  considered  as  a continuation 
of  the  Pentateuch,  since  it  commences  with  “ vav  con- 
tinuative”  in  the  word  “’ITPT,  which  may  be  rendered 
thereupon  it  happened. 

I.  Contents. — This  book  gives  an  account  of  the  for- 
tunes of  the  Israelites  from  the  death  of  Moses  to  that 
of  Joshua,  the  son  of  Nun.  Beginning  with  the  ap- 
pointment of  Joshua  to  succeed  Moses  as  the  leader  of 
the  people,  it  proceeds  to  describe  the  arrangements 
made  by  Joshua  in  prospect  of  passing  over  Jordan  (i- 
ii);  the  crossing  of  the  river,  and  the  settiug  up  of  a 
memorial  on  the  further  side  at  Gilgal  (iii-iv) ; the  dis- 
may which  this  occasioned  to  the  Canaanites  (v,  1) ; the 
dircumcision  of  the  males  among  the  people,  that  rite 
having  been  neglected  in  the  wilderness;  the  observ- 
ance of  the  Passover  by  them  in  the  camp  at  Gilgal; 
the  ceasing  of  the  manna  on  the  day  after  they  had 
entered  Canaan  (v,  2-12) ; the  encouragement  given  to 
Joshua  to  proceed  on  his  enterprise  by  the  appearance 
of  an  angel  to  him  (v,  13-15) ; the  siege  and  capture  of 
Jericho  (vi);  the  defeat  of  the  Israelites  at  Ai  (vii) ; the 
taking  of  Ai  ( vi  ii,  1-29) ; the  writing  of  the  law  on  ta- 
bles of  stone,  and  the  solemn  repetition  from  Ebal  and 
Gerizim  of  the  blessings  and  the  curses  which  Moses 
had  written  in  the  book  of  the  law  (viii,  30-35) ; the 
confederation  of  the  kings  of  Northern  Canaan  against 
the  Israelites;  the  cunning  device  by  which  the  Gibeon- 
ites  secured  themselves  from  being  destroyed  by  the  Is- 
raelites ; the  indignation  of  the  other  Canaanites  against 
the  Gibeonites,  and  the  confederation  of  the  kings  around 
Jerusalem  against  Joshua,  with  their  signal  defeat  by 
him  (ix,  x) ; the  overthrow  at  the  waters  of  Megiddo  of 
the  great  northern  confederacy,  with  the  destruction  of 
the  Anakim  (xi) ; the  list  of  kings  whose  country  the 
Israelites  had  taken  under  Moses  and  Joshua  (xii) ; the 
division  of  the  country,  both  the  parts  conquered  and 
those  yet  remaining  under  the  power  of  the  Canaanites, 
among  the  different  tribes,  chiefly  by  lot ; the  setting  up 
of  the  tabernacle  in  Shiloh ; the  appointment  of  cities 
of  refuge  and  of  cities  for  the  Levites;  the  return  of  the 
Reubenites,  the  Gadites,  and  the  half  tribe  of  Manasseh, 
to  their  possessions  on  the  east  of  the  Jordan,  after  the 
settlement  of  their  brethren  in  Canaan  (xiii-xxii);  and 
the  farewell  addresses  of  Joshua  to  the  people,  his  death 
and  burial  (xxiii-xxiv).  The  book  naturally  divides  it- 
self into  two  parts ; the  former  (i-xii)  containing  an  ac- 
count of  the  conquest  of  the  land ; the  latter  (xiii-xxiv) 
of  the  division  of  it  among  the  tribes.  These  are  fre- 
quently cited  distinctively  as  the  historical  ami  the  geo- 
graphical portions  of  the  book. 

a.  The  first  twelve  chapters  form  a continuous  narra- 
tive, which  seems  never  to  halt  or  flag.  The  descrip- 
tion is  frequently,  so  minute  as  to  show  the  hand  not 
merely  of  a contemporary,  but  of  an  eye-witness.  An 
awful  sense  of  the  divine  Presence  reigns  throughout. 
We  are  called  out  from  the  din  and  tumult  of  each  bat- 
tle-field to  listen  to  the  still  small  voice.  The  progress 
of  events  is  clearly  foreshadowed  in  the  first  chapter 
(vers.  5, 6).  Step  by  step  we  are  led  on  through  the 
solemn  preparation,  the  arduous  struggle,  the  crowning 
triumph.  Moving  everything  around,  yet  himself 
moved  by  an  unseen  power,  the  Jewish  leader  rises 
high  and  calm  amid  all. 

b.  The  second  part  of  the  book  (ch.  xiii-xxi)  has  been 
aptly  compared  to  the  Domesday-book  of  the  Norman 


JOSHUA  1028  JOSHUA 


conquerors  of  England.  The  documents  of  which  it 
consists  were  doubtless  the  abstracts  of  such  reports  as 
were  supplied  by  the  men  whom  Joshua  sent  out  (xviii, 
8}  to  describe  the  land.  In  the  course  of  time  it  is  prob- 
able that  changes  were  introduced  into  their  reports — 
whether  kept  separately  among  the  national  archives, 
or  embodied  in  the  contents  of  a hook— by  transcribers 
adapting  them  to  the  actual  state  of  the  country  in  later 
times  when  political  divisions  were  modified,  new  towns 
sprung  up,  and  old  ones  disappeared  (comp,  the  two  lists 
of  Levitical  towns.  Josh,  xxi,  and  1 Chron.  vi,  54,  etc.). 

II.  Desiyn. — The  object  of  the  book  is  manifestly  to 
furnish  a continuation  of  the  history  of  the  Israelites 
from  the  point  at  which  it  is  left  in  the  closing  book  of 
the  Pentateuch,  and  at  the  same  time  to  illustrate  the 
faithfulness  of  Jehovah  to  his  word  of  promise,  and  his 
grace  in  aiding  his  people  by  miraculous  interference  to 
obtain  possession  of  the  land  promised  to  Abraham.  The 
ground  idea  of  the  book,  as  Maurer  ( Comment . p.  3)  ob- 
serves, is  furnished  by  God’s  declaration  to  Joshua,  re- 
corded i,  5, 6,  that  the  work  which  Moses  commenced  he 
should  finish  by  subduing  and  dividing  to  the  tribes  of 
Israel  the  Promised  Land.  The  book,  therefore,  may  be 
regarded  as  setting  forth  historically  the  grounds  on 
which  the  claims  of  Israel  to  the  proprietorship  of  the 
land  rested;  and  as  possessing,  consequently,  not  mere- 
ly a historical,  but  also  a constitutional  and  legal  worth. 
As  illustrating  God’s  grace  and  power  in  dealing  with 
his  people,  it  possesses  also  a religious  and  spiritual  in- 
terest. 

III.  Unity. — On  this  head  a variety  of  opinions  have 

been  entertained.  It  has  been  asserted,  I.  That  the 
book  is  a collection  of  fragments  from  different  hands, 
put  together  at  different  times,  and  the  whole  revised 
and  enlarged  by  a later  writer.  Some  make  the  num- 
ber of  sources  whence  these  fragments  have  been  de- 
rived ten  (Ilcrwerden,  Disp.de  Libro  Jos.  Groning.  182G); 
others  jive,  including  the  reviser  (Knobel,  Kxer/et.  Jib/:. 
pt.  13 ; Ewald,  Gesch.  der  Israel,  i,  73  sq.) ; while  others 
content  themselves  with  three  (Bleek,  Kinleit.  ins.  A.  T. 
p.  325).  2.  That  it  is  a complete  and  uniform  composi- 

tion, interspersed  with  glosses  and  additions  more  or 
less  extensive.  3.  That  the  first  part  is  the  composition 
of  one  author;  but  the  second  betrays  indications  of 
being  a compilation  from  various  sources  (Havernick, 
Kinleit.  11,  i,  34).  4.  That  the  book  is  complete  and  uni- 
form throughout,  and,  as  a whole,  is  the  composition  of 
one  writer.  It  is  impossible  here  to  enter  into  all  the 
details  of  this  discussion.  The  reader  will  find  these 
fully  presented  by  De  Wette,  Kinleit.  ins.  A.  T.,  4th  and 
subsequent  editions;  lliiverniek,  Kinleit.  I,  i,  1 ; Ivonig, 
Alt-testamentl.  Studien,  i,  4;  Maurer,  Comment.;  Keil, 
Comment.  E.  T.  p.  3 ; Bleek,  Kinleit.  ins.  A . T.,  p.  31 1 ; 
knobel,  in  the  Kxer/et.  Ilandbuch,  pt.  13;  and  Davidson, 
Introd.  to  the  0.  T.  i,  412. 

a.  Events  alleged  to  be  twice  narrated  in  this  book 
are.  Joshua’s  decease,  ch.xxiii  and  xxiv;  the  command 
to  appoint  twelve  men,  one  out  of  each  tribe,  in  con- 
nection with  the  passing  over  Jordan  (iii,  12;  iv,8); 
the  stoning  of  Achan  and  his  dependents  (vii,25) ; the 
setting  of  an  ambush  for  the  taking  of  Ai  (viii,  1),  12) ; 
the  rest  from  war  of  the  land  (xi,  23 ; xiv,  15) ; the  com- 
mand to  Joshua  concerning  dividing  the  land  (xiii,  fi) ; 
and  the  granting  of  Hebron  to  (’aleb  (xiv,  13;  xv,  13)1 
This  list  we  have  transcribed  from  Knobel  (Kxer/et. 
lldbk.  xiii,  4!>S).  Is  it  incredible  that  Joshua  should 
have  trrice  assembled  the  representatives  of  the  people 
to  address  them  before  his  decease?  May  he  not  have 
felt  that,  spared  beyond  his  expectation,  it  behoved  him 
to  avail  himself  of  the  opportunity  thus  afforded  to  ad- 
dress once  more  to  the  people  words  of  counsel  and  ad- 
monition? In  the  case  of  the  grant  to  Caleb  of  He- 
bron there  is  undoubtedly  a repetition  of  the  same  fact, 
but  it  is  such  a repetition  as  might  proceed  from  the 
same  pen;  for  the  two  statements  are  made  in  different 
connections,  the  one  in  connection  with  Caleb’s  per- 
sonal merits,  the  other  in  connection  with  the  bounda- 


ries and  occupation  allotted  to  Judah.  The  taking  of 
Ai  will  be  considered  further  on.  As  for  the  other  in- 
stances, we  leave  them  to  the  judgment  of  our  readers. 

b.  Of  the  alleged  discrepancies,  one  on  which  much 
stress  has  been  laid  is,  that  in  various  parts  of  the  book 
Joshua  is  said  to  have  subdued  the  whole  land  and  de- 
stroyed the  Canaanites  (xi,  10;  xii,  7 sq.;  xxi,  43;  xxii, 
4),  whereas  in  others  it  is  stated  that  large  portions  of 
the  land  w'ere  not  conquered  by  Joshua  (xiii,  1 sq.;  xvii, 
14  sq. ; xviii,  3 sq. ; xxiii,  5-12).  It  is  worthy  of  note, 
however,  in  the  outset,  that  this  is  a discrepancy  which 
pervades  the  book,  and  on  which,  consequently,  no  ar- 
gument for  diversity  of  authorship,  as  between  the  first 
anil  the  second  parts  of  it,  can  be  built.  Again,  a dis- 
crepancy of  this  sort  is  of  a kind  so  obvious,  that  it  is 
exactly  such  as  a compiler,  coolly  surveying  the  mate- 
rials he  is  putting  together,  would  at  once  detect  and 
eliminate ; whereas  an  original  writer  might  write  so  as 
to  give  the  appearance  of  it  from  looking  at  the  same 
object  from  different  points  of  view  in  the  course  of  his 
writing.  Viewed  in  relation  to  purpose  and  effect,  the 
land  was  conquered  and  appropriated;  Israel  was  set- 
tled in  it  as  master  and  proprietor,  the  power  of  the  Ca- 
naanites was  broken,  and  God’s  covenant  to  his  people 
was  fulfilled.  But  through  various  causes,  chiefly  the 
people’s  own  fault,  the  work  was  not  literally  completed; 
and  therefore,  viewed  in  relation  to  what  ought  to  have 
been  done  and  what  might  have  been  done,  the  historian 
could  not  but  record  that  there  yet  remained  some  ene- 
mies to  be  conquered,  and  some  portions  of  the  land  to 
be  appropriated.  It  was  intehded  (Ex.  xxiii,  28,  30) 
(Ex.  xxiii,  28,  30)  that  the  people  should  occupy  the 
land  little  by  little.  In  like  manner,  it  can  not  be  al- 
lowed that  the  general  statement  (xi,  28)  that  Joshua 
gave  the  land  mito  all  Israel  according  to  their  divisions 
by  their  tribes  is  inconsistent  with  the  fact  (xviii,  1 ; 
xix,  51)  that  many  subsequent  years  passed  before  the 
process  of  division  was  completed  and  the  allotments 
finally  adjusted. 

The  boundaries  of  the  different  tribes,  it  is  said,  are 
stated  sometimes  with  greater,  sometimes  with  less  ex- 
actness. Now  this  may  be  a fault  of  the  surveyors  em- 
ployed by  Joshua ; but  it  is  scarcely  an  inconsistency  to 
be  charged  on  the  writer  of  the  book  who  transcribed 
their  descriptions.  Again,  the  divine  promise  that  the 
coast  of  Israel  shall  extend  to  the  Euphrates  (i,  4)  is  not 
inconsistent  with  the  fact  that  the  country  which  Joshua 
was  commanded  to  divide  (xiii,  16)  does  not  extend  so 
far.  Again,  the  statement  (xiii,  3)  that  Ekron,  etc.,  re- 
mained yet  to  be  possessed  is  not  inconsistent  with  the 
subsequent  statement  (xv,  45)  that  it  was  assigned  to 
Judah.  Dr.  Davidson  gives  no  proof  either  of  his  as- 
sertion that  the  former  text  is  in  fact  subsequent  to  the 
latter,  or  of  his  supposition  that  Ekron  was  in  the  pos- 
session of  Judah  at  the  time  of  its  assignment. 

Another  apparent  discrepancy  has  been  found  be- 
tween xxii,  2 and  xxiv,  14,  23.  IIow,  it  is  asked,  could 
there  be  “gross  idolatry”  amongst  a people  who  had  in 
all  things  conformed  to  the  law  of  God  given  by  Moses? 
This  difficulty  is  dealt  with  by  Augustine  (Quevst.  in  Jos. 
qu.  29),  who  solves  it  by  understanding  the  injunction 
of  Joshua  to  refer  to  alienation  of  heart  on  the  part  of 
the  people  from  God.  This  explanation  is  followed  in 
substance  by  Calvin  and  others,  and  it  is  apparently 
the  true  one.  Ilad  Joshua  known  that  “gross  idolatry” 
was  practiced  by  the  people,  he  would  have  taken  vigor- 
ous measures  before  this  to  extirpate  it.  But  against 
secret  and  heart  idolatry  he  could  use  only  words  of 
warning  and  counsel. 

Another  discrepancy  is  thus  set  forth  by  Dr.  David- 
son (Introd.  i,  p.  415)  : “ It  is  related  that  the  people  as- 
sembled at  Sichem,  ‘ under  an  oak  that  was  by  the  sanc- 
tuary of  the  Lord,’  anil  1 they  presented  themselves  be- 
fore God,’  implying  that  the  tabernacle  and  ark  were 
there.  But  we  know  from  xviii,  1 that  the  tabernacle 
had  been  removed  from  its  former  place  at  Gilgal  to  Shi- 
loh, where  it  remained  for  a long  period  after  Joshua’s 


JOSHUA 


1029 


JOSHUA 


death”  (1  Sara,  iii,  21 ; iv,  3).  Here  are  several  mis- 
takes. The  phrase  “before  God”  “'3?^)  does 

not  necessarily  mean  “ before  the  ark  of  the  Lord”  (comp. 
Gen.  xxvii,  7 ; Judg.  xi,  11;  xx,  1 ; 1 Kings  xvii,  1,  etc.; 
Hengstenberg,  Beitr.  iii,  43)  ; and  it  is  not  related  that 
“ the  people  assembled  under  an  oak  that  was  by  the 
sanctuary  of  the  Lord,”  but  that  Joshua  “ took  a great 
stone  and  set  it  up  there  under  the  oak  that  was  within 
the  sanctuary  of  the  Lord”  (xxiv,  26).  The  oak  refer- 
red to  was  probably  a well-known  one  that  stood  within 
the  spot  which  had  been  the  first  sanctuary  of  the  Lord 
in  Canaan  (Gen.  xii,  6,  7),  and  where  the  nation  had 
been  convened  by  Joshua,  on  first  entering  the  Prom- 
ised Land,  to  listen  to  the  words  of  the  law  (Josh,  viii, 
30-35).  No  place  more  fitting  as  the  site  of  a memo- 
rial stone  such  as  Joshua  is  here  said  to  have  set  up 
could  be  found. 

These  are  the  only  discrepancies  that  have  even  the 
appearance  of  seriously  affecting  the  claim  of  the  book 
to  be  regarded  as  the  work  of  one  author  throughout. 
The  others,  which  have  been  discovered  and  urged  by 
some  recent  critics  in  Germany,  aTe  such  that  it  seems 
unnecessary  to  take  up  space  by  noticing  them.  The 
reader  will  find  them  noted  and  accounted  for  in  the  In- 
troduction to  Keil’s  Commentary  on  Joshua,  p.  9 sq. 
The  treatment  of  the  Canaanites  which  is  sanctioned  in 
this  book  has  been  denounced  for  its  severity  by  Eich- 
liorn  and  earlier  writers.  But  there  is  nothing  in  it  in- 
consistent with  the  divine  attribute  of  justice,  or  with 
God’s  ordinary  way  of  governing  the  world.  See  above, 
Joshua;  also  Canaanites.  Therefore  the  sanction 
which  is  given  to  it  does  not  impair  the  authority  of  this 
book.  Critical  ingenuity  has  searched  it  in  vain  for 
any  incident  or  sentiment  inconsistent  with  what  we 
know  of  the  character  of  the  age,  or  irreconcilable  with 
other  parts  of  canonical  Scripture. 

c.  The  alleged  differences  of  phraseology  and  style  in 
different  parts  of  the  book  might  deserve  more  extend- 
ed notice  were  it  not  for  the  very  unsatisfactory  state  in 
which  this  method  of  inquiry  as  yet  is.  Without  doubt, 
it  is  true  that,  if  it  can  be  shown  that  these  differences 
are  such  as  to  indicate  diversity  of  authorship,  the  argu- 
ment must  be  admitted  as  legitimate,  and  the  conclu- 
sion as  valid ; but  before  dealing  with  such  questions, 
it  would  be  well  if  it  were  settled  on  some  scientific 
basis  what  is  the  competent  test  in  such  a case,  what 
kind  ami  amount  of  difference  in  phraseology  and  style 
are  sufficient  to  prove  a diversity  of  authorship.  On 
this  head  critics  seem  wholly  at  sea ; they  have  no  com- 
mon standard  to  which  to  appeal ; and  hence  their  con- 
clusions are  frequently  determined  by  purely  personal 
leanings  and  subjective  affections,  and  hardly  any  two 
of  them  agree  in  the  judgment  at  which  they  arrive. 
This  is  remarkably  the  case  with  the  instances  which 
have  been  adduced  from  the  book  before  us.  Of  these, 
some  are  of  such  a kind  as  to  render  an  argument  from 
them  against  the  unity  of  the  book  little  better  than 
puerile.  Thus  we  are  told  that  in  some  places  the  word 
is  used  for  a tribe,  while  in  others  is  used,  and 
this  is  employed  as  a test  to  distinguish  one  fragment 
from  another.  Accordingly,  for  instance,  in  chap,  xviii, 
verses  2,4, 7 are  pronounced  to  belong  to  one  writer,  and 
ver.ll  to  another;  which  is  just  as  if  an  author,  in  giving 
an  account  of  the  rebellion  of  1745,  should  speak  in  the 
same  chapter  first  of  a body  of  Highlanders  as  a clan, 
and  then  of  the  same  as  a sept,  and  some  critic  were  to 
come  after  him  and  say,  “ This  could  not  have  been  writ- 
ten by  one  author,  for  he  would  not  have  called  the  same 
body  by  different  names.”  Could  it  be  shown  that  ei- 
ther or  nil;  is  a word  introduced  into  the  language 
for  the  first  time  at  a date  much  later  than  the  age  of 
Joshua,  while  the  other  word  had  then  become  obsolete, 
an  argument  of  some  weight,  ami  such  as  a scholar  like 
Bentley  might  have  employed,  would  have  been  ad- 
vanced; but  to  attempt  to  assign  parts  of  the  same 
chapter  to  different  authors  and  to  different  epochs 


simply  because  synonymous  appellations  of  the  same 
object  are  employed,  is  nothing  better  than  sheer  tri- 
fling. Again,  it  is  said  that  “ the  historical  parts  have 
the  rare  word  n'pbnPS,  inheritance  [rather,  divisions'] 
(xi,  23 ; xii,  7 ; xviii,  10),  which  does  not  appear  in  the 
geographical  sections”  (Davidson,  i,  417).  Is  chap,  xviii, 
then,  not  in  the  geographical  part  of  the  book  ? or  does 
a part  become  geographical  or  historical  as  suits  the  ca- 
price or  the  preconceived  theory  of  the  critic?  “Simi- 
larly, the  geographical  portion  hasirP'??  j"H_,  Jordan 
by  Jericho,  xiii,82 ; xvi,  1 ; xx,  8;  a mode  of  expression 
wanting  in  the  historical”  (ibid.).  True;  but  suppose 
there  was  no  occasion  to  use  the  phrase  in  the  historical 
portions,  what  then  ? Are  thcjr,  therefore,  from  a differ- 
ent pen  from  that  which  produced  the  geographical  ? 
“Again, in  the  historical  parts  occur  the  words 
[D^nsnj  -'All,  the  priests,  the  Levites  (iii,  3;  viii, 
33) ; or  simply  3 n.*3,  priests  (iii,  6,  15;  vi,  4,  G,  etc.)  ; 

but  in  the  geographical  sections  the  same  persons  are 
termed  sons  of  Aaron  (xxi,  4, 10, 13, 19)”  (ibid.).  Is 
there  not,  however,  a reason  for  this  in  the  fact  that,  as 
it  was  in  virtue  of  their  being  descended  from  Aaron, 
and  not  in  virtue  of  their  being  priests,  that  the  Ko- 
hathites  received  their  portion,  it  was  more  proper  to 
designate  them  “children  of  Aaron,  of  the  Levites,” 
than  “priests,”  or  “the  priests  the  Levites.”  Davidson 
scouts  this  explanation  as  one  which  “ only  betrays  the 
weakness  of  the  cause.”  We  confess  ourselves  unable 
to  see  this;  the  explanation  is,  in  our  judgment,  per- 
fectly valid  in  itself,  and  sufficient  for  the  end  for  which 
it  is  adduced ; and  he  has  made  no  attempt  to  show  that 
it  is  otherwise.  All  he  says  is,  “ The  former  is  a Dcuter- 
onomistic  expression ; the  latter  Elohistic.”  What  this 
is  meant  to  convey  we  are  at  a loss  to  determine,  for  the 
only  places  in  which  the  phrase  “sons  of  Aaron”  occurs 
is  in  connection  with  the  names  of  Nadab  and  Abihu, 
who  were  sons  of  Aaron  by  immediate  descent,  and  must 
have  been  so  described  by  any  writer,  whether  Deuter- 
onomist  or  Elohist. 

A number  of  other  words  are  adduced  by  the  oppo- 
nents of  the  unity  of  the  book  of  Joshua  for  the  purpose 
of  showing  that  it  includes  fragments  from  different  au- 
thors. On  these  wc  do  not  linger.  There  are  two  con- 
siderations which  seem  to  us  entirely  to  destroy  their 
force  as  evidences  for  that  which  they  are  adduced  to 
prove.  The  one  of  these  is  that,  according  to  Ewald, 
“ the  later  historians  imitated  the  words  and  phraseolo- 
gy of  those  who  preceded  them,  and,  moreover,  that  they 
frequently  altered  the  phrases  which  they  found  in  the 
earlier  documents.”  On  this  Ktil  (from  whom  we  bor- 
row the  statement)  remarks  with  great  force,  “If  that 
be  tlie  case,  we  can  no  longer  think  of  peculiarities  of 
style  as  characteristic  signs  b}T  which  the  different 
sources  may  be  distinguished.  His  entire  theory  is 
therefore  built  on  sand”  ( Comment . on  Josh.  Introd.  p.  9, 
E.  T.).  The  other  observation  we  would  make  is,  that 
supposing  it  made  out  by  indubitable  marks  that  the 
book  of  Joshua  has  undergone  a careful  revision  by  a 
later  editor,  who  has  altered  expressions  and  interpo- 
lated brief  statements  that  would  not  seriously  impeach 
the  unity  of  the  book,  it  would  still  remain  substantially 
the  work  of  one  author.  We  cannot  forbear  adding 
that,  in  all  such  inquiries,  more  faith  is  to  be  placed  on 
a sound  literary  perception  and  taste  than  on  those  mi- 
nutiae of  expression  and  phraseology  on  which  so  much 
stress  has  of  late  been  laid  by  some  of  the  scholars  of 
Germany  and  their  followers  in  this  country.  The  im- 
pression undoubtedly  left  on  the  mind  of  the  reader  is, 
that  this  book  contains  a continuous  and  uniform  narra- 
tive ; and  its  claims  in  this  respect  can  be  brought  into 
doubt  only  by  the  application  to  it  of  a species  of  criti- 
cism which  would  produce  the  same  result  were  it  ap- 
plied to  the  histories  of  Livy,  the  commentaries  of  Caesar, 
or  any  other  ancient  work  of  narrative. 

IV,  Date  of  Composition. — This  can  only  be  approxi- 


1030 


JOSHUA 


JOSHUA 

matcly  determined.  Of  great  value  for  this  purpose  is 
the  frequent  use  of  the  phrase  “ until  this  day”  by  the 
writer,  in  reference  to  the  duration  of  certain  objects  of 
which  he  writes.  The  use  of  such  a phrase  indicates 
indubitably  that  the  narrative  was  written  while  the 
object  referred  to  was  still  existing.  It  is  a phrase, 
also,  which  may  be  used  with  reference  to  a very  limited 
period;  as,  for  instance,  when  Joshua  uses  it  of  the  pe- 
riod up  to  which  the  two  tribes  and  a half  had  continued 
with  their  brethren  (xxii,  3),  or  when  he  uses  it  of  the 
period  up  to  which  the  Israelites  had  been  suffering  for 
the  iniquity  of  Peor  (xxii,  17);  comp,  also  xxiii,  8,  9. 
Now  we  find  this  phrase  used  by  the  historian  in  cases 
where  the  reference  is  undoubtedly  to  a period  either 
within  the  lifetime  of  Joshua,  or  not  long  after  his  death. 
Thus  it  is  used  with  reference  to  the  stones  which 
Joshua  set  up  in  the  midst  of  Jordan,  in  the  place  where 
the  priests  had  stood  as  the  people  passed  over  (iv,9),  and 
which  we  cannot  suppose  remained  in  that  position  for 
a very  long  time ; it  is  used  also  of  Itahab’s  dwelling  in 
the  midst  of  Israel  (vi,  25),  which  must  have  ceased,  at 
the  furthest,  very  soon  after  Joshua’s  death;  also  of 
Caleb’s  personal  possession  of  Hebron  (xiv,  14),  which 
of  course  terminated  soon  after  the  time  of  Joshua. 
From  these  notices  we  infer  that  the  book  may  have 
been  written  during  Joshua’s  lifetime,  and  cannot  have 
been  written  long  after.  With  this  falls  in  the  use  of 
the  first  person  in  the  reference  to  the  crossing  of  the 
Jordan  (v,  1),  where  one  who  was  present  on  the  occa- 
sion is  evidently  the  writer.  To  the  same  effect  is  the 
fact  that  no  allusion  is  anywhere  made  to  anything 
that  is  known  to  have  been  long  posterior  to  the  time 
of  Joshua. 

Several  words  occurring  in  this  book  have  been  ad- 
duced as  belonging  to  the  later  Hebrew,  and  as,  conse- 
quently, indicating  a later  date  of  composition  for  the 
book  than  the  age  of  Joshua,  or  that  immediately  suc- 
ceeding. Ilut  it  strikingly  show!  the  precarious  basis 
on  which  all  such  reasoning  rests,  that  words  are  pro- 
nounced archaic  or  late  just  as  it  suits  the  purpose  of 
the  inquirer;  what  De  AVette  calls  late  being  declared 
to  be  ancient  by  Hiivernick  and  Keil,  and  what  Hiiver- 
nick  and  Keil  call  ancient  being  again  pronounced  late 
by  Knobel  and  Davidson,  and  with  equal  absence  of 
any  show  of  reason  on  both  sides.  One  thing  of  impor- 
tance, however,  is,  that,  whether  the  writer  has  used 
what  modern  scholars,  judging  a priori,  call  later  forms 
or  not,  he  has  undoubtedly  made  no  allusions  to  later 
facts,  and  so  has  given  evidence  of  antiqnity  which 
common-sense  inquirers  can  appreciate. 

X.  A nthor. — Assuming  that  the  book  is  the  produc- 
tion of  one  writer,  and  that  it  was  written  about  the 
time  above  suggested,  the  question  arises,  To  whom  is 
it  to  be  ascribed?  That  it  is  the  work  of  Joshua  him- 
self is  the  tradition  of  the  Jews  (Baba  Bathra,  cap.  i, 
fol.  14,  B) ; and  this  has  been  embraced  by  several  Chris- 
tian writers,  and  among  others,  in  recent  times,  by  Ro- 
ll jg,  and,  as  respects  the  first  half  of  the  book,  by  Haver- 
nick.  That  this  might  have  been  the  case  as  respects 
all  but  the  concluding  section  of  the  book  cannot  be  de- 
ified, but  the  reasons  which  have  been  adduced  in  sup- 
port of  it  have  not  appeared  sufficient  to  the  great  ma- 
jority of  critics.  These  may  be  thus  briefly  stated: 
(a)  It  is  evident  (xxiv,  2G)  that  Joshua  could  and  did 
write  some  account  of  at  least  one  transaction  which 
is  related  in  this  book;  (5)  the  numerous  accounts  of 
Joshua’s  intercourse  with  God  (i,  1 ; iii,  7 ; iv,  2 ; v,  2, 9; 
vi,  2 ; vii,  10 ; viii,  1 ; x,  8 ; xi,  0 ; xiii,  1, 2 ; xx,  1 ; xxiv’ 
2),  and  with  the  captain  of  the  Lord’s  host  (vcr.  13), 
must  have  emanated  from  himself;  (c)  no  one  is  more 
likely  than  the  speaker  himself  to  have  committed  to 
writing  the  two  addresses  which  were  Joshua’s  legacy 
to  his  people  (xxiii  anil  xxiv) ; (d)  no  one  was  so  well 
qualified  by  his  position  to  describe  the  events  related, 
and  to  collect  the  documents  contained  in  the  book;  (<) 
the  example  of  his  predecessor  and  master,  Moses,  would 
have  suggested  to  lfim  such  a record  of  his  acts ; (/) 


one  verse  (vi,  25)  must  have  been  written  by  some  per- 
son who  lived  in  the  time  of  Joshua;  and  two  other 
verses,  v,  1 and  6 — assuming  the  common  reading  of  the 
former  to  be  correct — are  most  fairly  interpreted  as  writ- 
ten by  actors  in  the  scene. 

No  one  would  deny  that  some  additions  to  the  book 
might  be  made  after  the  death  of  Joshua  without  de- 
tracting from  the  possible  fact  that  the  book  was  sub- 
stantially his  composition.  The  last  verses  (xxiv,  29- 
33)  were  obviously  added  by  some  later  hand.  If,  as  is 
possible,  though  not  certain,  some  subordinate  events,  as 
the  capture  of  Hebron,  of  Debir  (Josh,  xv,  13-19,  and 
Judg.  i,  10-15),  and  of  Leshem  (Josh,  xix,  47 ; and  Judg. 
xviii,  7),  and  the  joint  occupation  of  Jerusalem  (Josh. 

xv,  63,  and  Judg.  i,  21)  did  not  occur  till  after  Joshua’s 
death,  they  may  have  been  inserted  in  the  book  of 
Joshna  by  a late  transcriber.  The  passages  xiii,  2-6; 

xvi,  10;  xvii,  11,  which  also  are  subsequently  repeated 
in  the  book  of  Judges,  may  doubtless  describe  accurate- 
ly the  same  state  of  things  existing  at  two  distinct  pe- 
riods. 

Other  authors  have  been  conjectured,  as  Phinehas  by 
Lightfoot ; Eleazar  by  Calvin ; Samuel  by  Van  Til ; Jer- 
emiah by  Henry ; one  of  the  elders  who  survived  Joshua 
by  Keil.  Von  Lengerke  thinks  it  was  written  by  some 
one  in  the  time  of  Josiah ; Davidson  by  some  one  in  the 
time  of  Saul,  or  somewhat  later ; Masius,  Le  Clerc,  Mau- 
rer, and  others,  by  some  one  who  lived  after  the  Babylo- 
nian captivity. 

VI.  Credibility. — That  the  narrative  contained  in  this 
book  is  to  be  accepted  as  a trustworthy  account  of  the 
transactions  it  records  is  proved  alike  by  the  esteem  in 
which  it  was  always  held  by  the  Jews ; by  the  references 
to  events  recorded  in  it  in  the  national  sacred  songs 
(comp.  Psa.  xliv,  2-4;  lxxviii,  54,  55;  lxviii,  13-15, 
cxiv,  1-8;  Hab.  iii,  8-13),  and  in  other  parts  of  Scrip- 
ture (comp.  Judg.  xviii,  31 ; 1 Sam.  i,  3,  9,  24;  iii,  21 , 
Isa.  xxviii,  21;  Acts  vii,  45;  Ileb.  iv,  8;  xi,  30-32,- 
James  ii,  25) ; by  the  traces  which,  both  in  the  historical 
and  in  the  geographical  portions,  may  be  found  of  the 
use  by  the  writer  of  contemporary  documents ; by  the 
minuteness  of  the  details  which  the  author  furnishes, 
and  which  indicates  familiar  acquaintance  with  what 
he  records;  by  the  accuracy  of  his  geographical  deline- 
ations, an  accuracy  which  the  results  of  modem  investi- 
gation are  increasingly  demonstrating;  by  the  fact  that 
the  tribes  never  had  any  dispute  as  to  the  boundaries  of 
their  respective  territories,  bnt  adhered  to  the  arrange- 
ments specified  in  this  book ; and  by  the  general  fidelity 
to  historical  consistency  and  probability  which  the  book 
displays  (Hiivernick,  Einl.  sec.  148  sq.).  Some  of  the 
narratives,  it  is  true,  are  of  a miraculous  kind,  but  such 
arc  wholly  in  keeping  with  the  avowed  relation  to  the 
Almighty  of  the  people  whose  history  the  book  records, 
and  they  can  be  regarded  as  unbistorieal  only  on  the  as- 
sumption that  all  miracles  are  incredible — a question  we 
cannot  stop  to  discuss  here.  See  Miracles.  In  the 
list  of  such  miraculous  interpositions  we  do  not  include 
the  standing  still  of  the  sun,  and  the  staying  of  the 
moon,  recorded  in  eh.  x,  12,  i3.  That  passage  is  ap- 
parently wholly  a quotation  from  the  book  of  Jasher, 
and  is  probably  a fragment  of  a poem  composed  by  some 
Israelite  on  the  occasion;  it  records  in  highly  poetical 
language  the  gracious  help  which  God  granted  to  Joshua 
bv  the  retarding  of  the  approach  of  darkness  long  enough 
to  enable  him  to  complete  the  destruction  of  his  ene- 
mies, and  is  no  more  to  be  taken  literally  than  is  such 
a passage  as  Psa.  exiv,  4-6,  where  the  Bed  Sea  is  de- 
scribed as  being  frightened  and  fleeing,  and  the  moun- 
tains as  skipping  like  rams.  See  Jasher,  Book  ok. 
That  God  interposed  on  this  occasion  to  help  his  people 
we  do  not  doubt ; but  that  he  interposed  by  the  working 
of  such  a miracle  as  the  words  taken  literally  would  in- 
dicate, we  sec  no  reason  to  believe. 

The  account  given,  eh.  viii,  1 sq.,  of  the  taking  of  Ai 
lias  been  much  dwelt  upon  as  presenting  a narrative 
which  is  uuhistorical.  It  is  incredible  that  Joshua  sent 


JOSHUA 


103 


JOSHUA 


two  bodies  of  men,  one  comprising  30,000  soldiers,  the 
other  5000,  to  lie  in  ambush  against  the  city,  while  he 
himself  advanced  on  it  with  the  main  body  of  his  army ; 
and  yet  this  seems  to  be  what  the  narrative  states. 
What  increases  the  improbability  here  is  that  the  lar- 
ger body  is  never  mentioned  as  having  come  into  action 
at  all,  for  the  whole  exploit  was  accomplished  by  the 
5000  .and  those  who  were  with  Joshua.  If  the  case 
were  stated  thus : That  Joshua  took  30,000  of  his  war- 
riors, and  of  these  sent  away  5000  to  lie  in  ambush, 
while  he,  with  the  remaining  25,000,  advanced  against 
the  city,  the  narrative  would  be  perfectly  simple  and 
credible.  The  suggestion  that  verses  12  and  13  are  a 
marginal  gloss  which  has  been  supposed  to  creep  into 
the  text,  leaves  the  narrative  burdened  with  the  im- 
probable statement  that  30,000  men  could  advance  on 
Ai  in  daylight,  and  lie  concealed  in  its  immediate  neigh- 
borhood for  several  hours  without  their  presence  being 
suspected  by  the  inhabitants.  Still  less  probable  seems 
the  suggestion  that  in  these  verses  we  have  a fragment 
of  an  older  record.  Keil  labors  to  show  that  from  the 
peculiar  style  of  Sliemitic  narrative  it  is  competent  to 
supply,  in  ver.  3,  in  thought,  from  the  subsequent  nar- 
rative, that  from  the  30,000  whom  Joshua  took  he  se- 
lected 5000,  whom  he  sent  away  by  night.  But,  what- 
ever may  be  the  difficulties  in  this  text,  it  would  be  un- 
reasonable on  this  account  to  relinquish  our  confidence 
on  the  general  credibility  of  the  book. 

YII.  Relation  to  the  Pentateuch.  — The  rentateucli 
brings  down  the  history  of  the  Israelites  to  the  death 
of  Moses,  at  which  it  naturally  terminates.  The  book 
of  Joshua  takes  up  the  history  at  this  point,  and  con- 
tinues it  to  the  death  of  Joshua,  which  furnishes  anoth- 
er natural  pause.  From  resemblances  between  the  lan- 
guage and  forms  of  expression  used  by  the  author  of 
the  book  of  Joshua  and  those  found  in  Deuteronomy,  it 
has  been  supposed  that  both  are  to  be  ascribed,  in  part 
at  least,  to  the  same  writer.  This,  of  course,  proceeds 
on  the  supposition  that  the  book  of  Deuteronomy  is  not 
the  composition  of  Moses ; a question  on  which  it  would 
be  out  of  place  to  enter  here.  See  Deuteronomy  ; 
Pentateuch.  It  may  suffice  to  observe,  that  whilst  it 
is  natural  to  expect  that  many  similarities  of  phraseol- 
ogy and  language  would  be  apparent  in  works  so  nearly 
contemporaneous  as  that  of  Deuteronomy  and  that  of 
Joshua,  there  are  yet  such  differences  between  them  as 
may  seem  to  indicate  that  they  are  not  the  production 
of  the  same  writer.  Thus,  in  the  Pentateuch,  we  have 
the  word  Jericho  always  spelt  ini*,  whilst  in  Joshua  it 
is  always  in>11|';  in  Deuteronomy  we  have  N2J1  bx 
(iv,  24;  v,  9;  vi,  15),  in  Joshua  502  (xxiv,  19);  in 
Deuteronomy  the  inf.  of  Stl*1,  to  fear , is  nxi^  (iv,  10 ; 
v,  2G;  vi,  24,  etc.),  in  Joshua  it  is  Nil1  (xxii,  25);  in 
Deuteronomy  we  have  warriors  described  as  "Ori 
(iii,  18),  whilst  in  Joshua  they  are  called  ^PtH 
(i,  14 ; vi,  2,  etc.).  We  have  also  in  Joshua  the  peculiar 
formula  Y2N13  *! -1,  which  nowhere  occurs  in  the  Pen- 
tateuch, but  only  13  131  (Lev.  xx,  9, 11,  12,  etc.)  ; the 
expression  ^ixn  Vs  "I  IN  (iii,  11,  13),  which  occurs 
again  only  in  Zcch.  vi,  5 ; the  phrase,  “ the  heart  melt- 
ed” (ii,  11 ; v,  1 ; vii,  5)  ; etc.  In  the  Pentateuch,  also, 
we  find  the  usage  with  respect  to  the  third  personal  pro- 
noun feminine  fluctuating  between  N’1H  and  Nin;  in 
the  book  of  Joshua  the  usage  is  fixed  down  to  N"H] 
which  became  the  permanent  usage  of  the  language. 
We  find,  also,  that  in  the  Pentateuch  the  demonstrative 
pronoun,  with  the  article,  sometimes  appears  in  the  form 
5Nn,  while  in  Joshua  and  elsewhere  it  is  always  n'^Xn. 
The  evidence  here  is  the  same  in  effect  as  would  accrue 
in  the  case  of  Latin  writers  from  the  use  of  ipsus  and 
ipse,  ollus  and  ille.  That  the  author  of  the  book  of 
Joshua  derived  part  of  his  information  from  the  Penta- 
teuch is  evident,  if  we  compare  Deut.  xviii,  1, 2,  and 


Numb,  xviii,  20,  with  Josh,  xiii,  14, 33 ; xiv,  4.  Even 
the  unusual  form  is  repeated  in  Joshua.  Compare 
also  Numb,  xxxi,  8,  with  Josh,  xiii,  21  and  22.  The  au- 
thor of  the  book  of  Joshua  frequently  repeats  the  state- 
ments of  the  Pentateuch  in  a more  detailed  form,  and 
mentions  the  changes  which  had  taken  place  since  the 
Pentateuch  was  written.  Compare  Numb,  xxxiv,  13 
and  14,  with  Josh,  xiii,  7 sq. ; Numb,  xxxii,  37,  with 
Josh,  xiii,  17  sq. ; Numb,  xxxv  with  Josh.  xxi. 

There  is  also  considerable  similarity  between  the  fol- 
lowing passages  in  the  books  of  Joshua  and  Judges : 
Josh,  xiii,  4,  Judg.  iii,  3;  Josh,  xv,  13  sq.,  Judg.  i,  10, 
20 ; Josh,  xv,  15-19,  Judg.  i,  1 1-15;  Josh,  xv,  G2,  Judg. 

i,  21 ; Josh,  xvi,  10,  Judg.  i,  29;  Josh,  xvii,  12,  Judg.  i, 
27 ; Josh,  xix,  47,  Judg.  xviii. — Ivitto;  Smith. 

VIII.  Commentaries. — The  exegetical  helps  expressly 
on  the  whole  book  of  Joshua  exclusively  are  the  follow- 
ing, of  which  we  designate  the  most  important  by  an 
asterisk  prefixed : Origcn,  Selecta  (in  Opp.  ii,  393)  j also 
llomilia  ( ih . ii,  397) ; also  Scholia  (in  Bill.  Pair.  Gal- 
landii,  xiv) ; Ephraem  Syrus,  Explanatio  (in  Opp.  iv, 
292) ; Procopius,  Notes  (in  his  Octateucham ) ; Theodoret, 
Quasiiones  (inO/>/>.  I,i);  Isidore,  Comment  aria  (in  Opp.) ; 
Bede,  Quastiones  (in  Opp.  p.  8);  Babanus,  in  Jos.  (in 
Opp.  ed.  Martene  et  Durand,  p.  GG8) ; Rupert,  In  Jos.  (in 
Opp.  i,  321);  Tostatus, /?;  Jos.  (in  Opp.) ; Raslii  or  Jar- 
chi,  Conmientariiis  (from  the  Ileb.  [found  in  the  Rab- 
binical Bibles]  by  Breithaupt,  Goth.  1710,  4to);  Rabbi 
Esaia,  dll^Q  (cd.  with  Lat.  notes  by  Abicht,  Lips.  1712, 
4to ; also  in  the  Tins.  Nov.  Theol.-Phil.  L.  B.  1732,  i,  474 
sq.) ; Borrliaus  or  Cellarius,  Commentarii  [includ.  Ruth, 
Samuel,  and  Kings]  (Basil.  1557,  fol.) ; Lavator,  Ilomil- 
icc  (Tigur.  15G5, 4to) ; Calvin,  Conmientariiis  (in  Opp.  i; 
in  French,  Genov.  15G5,  8vo;  transl.  in  Engl,  by  W.  F., 
Lond.  1578, 4to ; by  Beveridge,  Edinb.  1854, 8vo);  Bren- 
tius,  Commentarii  (in  Opp.  ii) ; Karseus,  Excerpta  (in 
Ugolini  Thtsaur.  xx.  497) ; Htr\gc\,  Scholia  (Lips.  1570, 
1575,  8vo);  Fcrus,  Enarratior.es  [includ.  Exodus,  etc.] 
(Colon.  1571, 1574,  8vo);  *Masius  [Rom.  Cath.],7//ns- 
tratio  (Antw.  1574,  fol.;  also  in  Walton’s  Polyglot,  vi, 
and  in  the  Critici  Sacri , ii) ; Clij-tneus,  Pralectioncs 
(Rost-.  1577,  8vo);  Montanus,  Commentarius  (Antwerp, 
1583,  4to);  Ilcidcnreich,  Predigten  (Lcipz.  1589;  Stct. 
1G04, 4to) ; Hcling,  Periocha  [includ.  Ruth,  Samuel,  and 
Kings]  (Norib.  1593-4,2  vols.  8 vo);  Laniado,  1j5^  “^3 
(Venice,  1G03,  fol.);  Ibn-Chajim,  "jinx  33  [including 
Judges]  (Venice,  IG09,  fol.;  also  in  Frankfurter’s  Rab- 
binical Bible) ; Serarius,  Commentarius  (Mogunt.  1G09- 
10,2  vols.  fol.;  Par.  1610,  fol.);  Magalianns,  Commenta- 
rius (Turnon.  1G12,  2 vols.  fol.)  ; Ilanickcn,  Reisepredig- 
ten  (Leipz.  lG13,4to) ; Drusius,  Commentarius  [including 
Judges  and  Samuel]  (Francck.lG18,4to);  Baldwin, Pre- 
cliejten  (Wittenb.  1G21, 4to);  Stockcn,  Predipt en  (Cassel, 
1G48, 4to) ; De  Naxera,  Commentarii  (vol.  i,  Antw.  1G50 ; 

ii, Lugd.  1652, fol.);  a Lapide,  In  Jos.  [and  other  books] 
(Antw.  1G58,  fol.);  Cocccius,  Notai  (in  Opp,  i,  309;  xi, 
47) ; Bonefrere,  Commentarius  [includ.  Judges  and  Ruth] 
(Paris,  1G59,  fol.) ; Marcellius,  Commentarius  (Hcrbip. 
lG61,4to);  Hannecken,A(/wt>/u/«  (Giss.  1GG5, 8vo) ; Osi- 
ander,  Commentarius  (Tubing.  1G81,  fol.) ; Ising,  Exer- 
citationes  (Regiom.  1G83,  4to);  * Schmidt,  Pralectioncs 
[with  Isaiah]  (Hamb.  1G93,  1G95,  1703,  4to);  Heideg- 
ger, Exegetica  [includ.  Matthew,  etc.]  (Tigur.  1700, 4to) ; 
Miihlmann,  Commentarius  (ed.Martin,  Dresd.  1701, 4to) ; 
Felibien,  Commentarii  [includ.  Judges,  Ruth,  and  Kings] 
(Paris,  1704, 4to) ; Le  Clerc,  Commentarius  (Amst.  1708; 
Tubing.  1733,  fol.);  Moldenhaucr,  Erliinterung  [includ. 
Judges,  etc.]  (Quedlinb.  1774,  4to);  Obomik,  DUiri, 
etc.  (in  the  Hebrew  Commentary,  Vienna,  1792, 8vo,  pt. 
15G);  Lightfoot,  .4  nnotationes  (in  Works,  x);  Horsley, 
Notes  (in  Bill.  Crit.  i) ; Meyer,  Bestandtheile , etc.  (in 
Ammon  and  Berthold’s  Krit.Journ.  1815, 4to,ii, 337  sq.) ; 
Kiev,  Ueherstz.  (Leipz.  1817,  8vo)  ; Paulus,  Blicke,  etc. 
(in  his  Thcol.-Exeg.  Conseri'.  Heldcb.  1822,  ii,  149  sq.); 
Herdwerden,  Dispuiatio,  etc.  (Groningen,  182G,  8vo) ; 


JOSHUA  1032  JOSHUA  BEN-JEHUDAII 


Maurer,  Commentar  (Stuttg.  1831.  8vo);  *Eosenm  idler, 
Scholia  (Lips.  1833,  8vo) ; *Keil,  Commentar  (Erlangen, 
1847,  8vo;  transl.  in  Clarke’s  Lib.  Edinb.  1857, 8vo ; dif- 
ferent from  that  in  Keil  and  Delitzseh’s  Commentary) ; 
*Busli,  .Votes  (N.Y.  1832, 12rao);  Miller,  Lectures  (Loud. 
1852,  l'iiuo) ; Gumming,  Readings  (London,  1857,  8vo) ; 
*Knol)d,  Erkldrung  [including  Numbers  and  Deuter- 
onomy] (in  the  Kurzgef.  Exeg.  Hdbch.  Leipz.  1861, 8vo)  ; 
Anon.,  Gospel  in  Josh.  (Lond.  1867,  8vo).  See  Commen- 
tary. 

JOSIIUA,  Spurious  writings  of.  The  Samari- 
tans, who  for  dogmatical  purposes  endeavored  to  depre- 
ciate the  authority  of  persons  mentioned  in  the  latter 
books  of  the  Old  Testament,  such  as  Eli,  Samuel,  Zerub- 
babel,  and  others,  had  no  such  interest  in  attacking  the 
person  of  Joshua.  Eulogius,  according  to  Photii  Codex, 
p.  230,  states:  “The  Samaritan  midtitude  believes  that 
Joshua,  the  son  of  Nun,  is  the  person  concerning  whom 
Moses  said, 1 The  Lord  will  raise  us  up  a prophet,’  ” etc. 
^Compare  Lampe,  Comment,  in  Erangelium  Johannis,  i, 
748.)  The  Samaritans  even  endeavored  to  exalt  the 
memory  of  Joshua  by  making  him  the  nucleus  of  many 
strange  legends  which  they  embodied  into  their  Arabic 
book  of  Joshua,  a work  which  seems  to  have  been  com- 
piled in  the  Middle  Ages,  and  is  quoted  by  the  Rabbin- 
ical chroniclers  of  that  period,  Sepher  Juehasin,  15.  Sam- 
uel, Sliullam  (f.  154),  Shalsheleth  ( Hakabbalah , p.  96), 
Ilottinger  ( Historia  Orientalis,  p.  40  sq.),  Zunz  ( Gottes - 
dienstliche  Vo  rt  rage  derJuden,  p.  140).  Eeland  supposed 
that  this  book  was  written  at  an  earlier  period,  and  aug- 
mented in  the  Middle  Ages-,  but  it  is  more  likely  that 
the  whole  is  a late  compilation.  (Compare  Hottingeri 
Smegma , p.  468.) 

The  so-called  book  of  Joshua  of  the  Samaritans  con- 
sists of  compilations  from  the  Pentateuch,  our  book  of 
Joshua,  the  books  of  Judges  and  of  Samuel,  intermixed 
with  many  Jewish  legends.  Its  compiler  pretends  that 
it  is  translated  from  the  Hebrew  into  Arabic,  but  it  was 
probably  originally  written  in  Arabic,  and  manifestly 
after  the  promulgation  of  the  Koran,  which  exercised  a 
perceptible  intlueiice  upon  it  (comp.  Eeland,  I)e  Samar- 
ttanis , Dissertationes  Miscellanea ?,  ii,  12  and  68;  Eiidi- 
ger,  in  the  Hall.  A llg.  Lit.  Zeit.  for  1848,  No.  217).  The 
author  of  this  compilation  endeavors  to  prove  that  the 
Samaritans  are  Israelites,  and  he  claims  for  them  the 
celebrity  of  the  Jews,  lie  attempts  to  turn  the  tradi- 
tions of  Jewish  history  in  favor  of  the  Samaritans.  By 
his  account  Joshua  built  the  temple  on  Mount  Gerizim, 
and  there  established  public  worship;  the  schism  be- 
tween Jews  and  Samaritans  commenced  under  Eli,  who, 
as  well  as  Samuel,  was  an  apostate  and  sorcerer;  after 
the  return  from  the  Babylonian  exile,  the  Samaritan 
form  of  worship  was  declared  to  be  the  legitimate  form  ; 
Zerubbabel  and  his  sacred  books,  which  were  corrupted, 
were  authoritatively  rejected;  Alexander  the  Great  ex- 
pressed his  veneration,  not  for  the  Jews,  but  for  the  Sa- 
maritans ; these  were  oppressed  under  the  emperor  Adri- 
an, but  again  obtained  permission  to  worship  publicly 
on  Mount  Gerizim.  The  whole  book  consists  of  a mix- 
ture of  Biblical  history  and  legends,  the  manifest  aim 
being  to  falsify  facts  for  dogmatical  purposes.  This 
book  terminates  with  the  history  of  the  Jewish  war  un- 
der Adrian.  The  only  known  copy  of  this  book  is  that 
of  Jos.  Sealiger,  which  is  now  in  the  library  at  Leyden. 
Although  the  language  is  Arabic,  it  is  written  iii  Sa- 
maritan characters.  Even  the  Samaritans  themselves 
seem  to ^ have  lost  it.  Huntington,  in  his  Epistolee 
(Lond.  1701,  p.  48),  mentions  that  he  could  not  find  it 
at  Nabulus,  nor  have  subsequent  inquiries  led  to  its  dis- 
covery there.  An  edition,  from  the  only  MS.  extant, 
appeared  in  1818  at  Leyden,  with  the  title  “ Liber  Josiur: 
Chronicum  Samaritanum ; edidit,  Latine  vertit,  etc.,  T. 
G.  J.  Juynboll.”  It  seems  never  to  have  been  recog- 
nised by  the  Samaritans  themselves  (De  Wette,  Einl. 
sec.  171). 

Besides  this  adulterated  version  of  the  history  of 
Joshua,  there  exists  still  another  in  the  Samaritan 


chronicles  of  Abul  Phetach.  See  Acta  Eruditorum 
Lips.,  anno  1691,  p.  167 ; Sehnurrer’s  Samaritanischer 
Brief wechsel,  in  Eiehhom’s  Repertorium,  ix,  54 ; a spec- 
imen by  Sehnurrer,  in  Paulus’s  Neues  Repertorium,  i, 
117  sq. — Kitto. 

The  mention  of  the  book  of  Jasher  has  given  rise  to 
some  spurious  compilations  under  that  name,  as  well  in 
Hebrew  as  in  English.  See  Jasher. 

2.  A native  of  Beth-sliemesh,  an  Israelite,  the  owner 
of  the  field  into  which  the  cart  came  which  bore  the  ark 
on  its  return  from  the  land  of  the  Philistines;  upon  a 
great  stone  in  the  midst  of  the  field  the  Beth-sliemites 
sacrificed  the  cows  that  drew  the  cart,  in  honor  of  its 
arrival  (1  Sam.  vi,  14, 18).  B.C.  1124. 

3.  The  governor  of  Jerusalem  at  the  time  of  the  ref- 
ormation by  Josiah ; the  entrance  to  his  palace  was  sit- 
uated near  one  of  the  idolatrous  erections  at  the  city 
gates  (2  Kings  xxiii,  8).  B.C.  628. 

4.  The  son  of  Josedeeh  (Hag.  i,  1, 12, 14 ; Zech.  iii,  1, 
3,  9;  vi,  11),  a high-priest  in  the  time  of  Haggai  and 
Zechariali;  better  known  by  the  name  of  Jeshua  (q.v.). 

Joshua  ben-Hananja,  one  of  the  most  honored 
masters  in  Israel,  flourished  in  the  second  century  of  the 
Christian  sera.  He  was  a mechanic  by  trade,  and  earn- 
ed his  livelihood  by  continuing  to  work  at  his  trade  even 
when  teacher  of  the  Eabbinical  school  at  Bekim,  whither 
he  had  removed  from  Jerusalem  after  its  downfall.  He 
was  a disciple  of  the  celebrated  Eabbi  ben-Zaehai,  and 
did  honor  to  his  master  as  a teacher  in  Israel.  His  con- 
troversies with  Gamaliel  and  Eliezcr  ben-Hyrcanos, 
which  are  celebrated  in  the  Mishna  and  the  Talmud, 
evince  that  he  was  a very  formidable  antagonist  on  ac- 
count of  the  force  of  his  reasoning  powers  and  the  pun- 
gency of  his  wit.  In  after  life  Joshua  went  with  Gama- 
liel and  Akiba  to  Eome,  to  plead  with  Trajan  on  behalf 
of  his  oppressed  countrymen,  and  was  received  by  the 
emperor  with  unusual  courtesy  and  respect.  It  is  even 
reported  (though  not  on  any  certain  authority)  that 
Trajan’s  daughter,  the  princess  Imra,  honored  the  Jew- 
ish Eabbi  with  her  friendship;  and  that  on  one  occa- 
sion, looking  at  the  homely  garb  in  which  so  much  wis- 
dom was  encased,  she  said  to  him,  “ Thou  art  the  beauty 
of  wisdom  in  an  abject  dress.”  “ Good  wine,”  Joshua 
complacently  replied,  “ is  not  kept  in  gold  or  silver  vases, 
but  in  vessels  of  earthen-ware.”  When  we  consider 
that  about  this  time  Judaism  numbered  many  proselytes 
among  the  patrician  ladies  of  Eome,  to  whose  aching 
hearts  the  herd  of  old  and  disreputable  deities  presented 
no  ground  of  comfort  or  hope  at  all  comparable  with  that 
afforded  by  the  Hebrew’s  purer  worship — the  worship 
of  the  one  true  God — we  need  not  hesitate  to  credit  the 
truth  of  this  story,  and  the  belief  of  some  that  Imra  even 
was  a Jewish  convert.  It  is  also  related  that  Trajan,  in 
a bantering  way,  begged  the  old  Eabbi  to  show  him  his 
God,  whom  he  had  affirmed  to  he  every  where  present. 
After  some  conversation,  Trajan  still  adhering  to  his 
demand  to  see  the  God  of  the  Hebrews,  Joshua  said, 
“ Well,  let  us  first  look  at  one  of  his  ambassadors ;”  and, 
taking  the  emperor  into  the  open  air,  he  desired  him  to 
gaze  at  the  sun  in  his  full  meridian  power.  “ I cannot,” 
replied  Trajan;  “the  light  dazzles  me.”  “Canst'  thou, 
then,”  said  the  Eabbi,  “expect  to  behold  the  glory  of 
the  Creator,  when  thou  art  unable  to  endure  the  light  of 
one  of  his  creatures?”  In  such  anecdotes  attributed  to 
Joshua  ben-Hananja  the  Talmud  abounds,  and  it  is  evi- 
dent that  in  his  day  Joshua  figured  as  the  most  able  of 
all  the  Eabbins.  See  Etheridge,  Introd.  to  Jewish  Lit. 
p.  61 ; Griitz,  Gesch.  der  Juden,  iv,  56  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Joshua  (or  Jeshua)  ben-Jehudah  (called  in 
Arabic  Abulfarag  Forkan  Ibn-Assad),  quoted  by  Aben- 
Ezra  as  R.  Joshua  (nj'Yi'V’  1),  a distinguished  Jew- 
ish philosopher,  grammarian,  and  commentator  of  the 
Karaite  sect,  flourished  in  the  11th  century.  From  his 
great  piety  and  extensive  knowledge,  he  obtained  the 
honorable  appellation  of  the.  aged  or  presbyter  ( Ila-Sa - 
ken,  .1  l-Sheikh),  His  expositions,  which,  eover  the  whole 


JOSHUA  NARBONI 


1033 


JOSIAII 


of  the  Old  Test.,  are  still  in  IMS.  The  only  fragments 
printed  are  given  by  Aben-Ezra  on  Gen.  xxviii,  12 ; xlix, 
27;  Exod.  iii,  2,  13;  iv,4;  vi,  3,  13;  vii,  3,  12;  viii,  22 ; 
x,  6 ; xii,  5 ; xv,  4 ; xvii,  16 ; xxi,  87 ; xxii,  7 ; xxxv, 
5;  Lev.  xvi,  1;  Hos.  v,  7;  Joel  iii,  1;  Amos  ix,  10; 
Obad.  17 ; Jonah  iii,  3 ; Micah  ii,  7;  vii,  12 ; Hab.  ii,  7 ; 
Zeph.  iii,  1 ; Hag.  ii,  10;  Mai.  ii,  6;  Dan.  i,  3;  ii,  4;  iv, 
17;  vii,  9;  xii,  2;  Psa.  lxxxviii,  1 ; cix,  8;  ex,  3;  cxix, 
160;  cxxii,  1;  cxlix,  6.  Compare  Delitzsch,  in  Aaron 
ben-Elias,  (Leipzig,  1844),  p.  315  sq.;  Finsker, 

Lickute  Kadmoniot  (Vienna,  I860),  text,  p.  117;  Gratz, 
Geschichte  der  Juden,  vi,  94  sq. ; Ivitto,  Bibl.  Cyclop,  s.  v. 

Joshua  Narboni.  See  Vidal. 

Josi'ah  (Heb.  Yoshiyah healed  by  Jeho- 
vah, Zech.  vi,  10,  elsewhere  in  the  paragogic  form  Yo- 
shiya'hu,  and  in  the  text  of  Jer.  xxvii,  1, 

Sin^blSO;  Sept.,  N.  T.,  and  Josephus  'luxriag , “Josi- 
as.”  Matt,  i,  10,  11),  the  name  of  two  men. 

1.  The  sixteenth  king  of  Judah  after  its  separation 
from  the  kingdom  of  Israel,  the  son  (by  Jedidah)  and,  at 
the  early  age  of  eight  years,  B.C.  640,  the  successor  of 
Amon  (2  Kings  xxii,  1 ; 2 Chron.  xxxiv,  1).  His  history 
is  contained  in  2 Kings  xxii-xxiv,  30;  2 Chron.  xxxiv, 
xxxv;  and  the  first  twelve  chapters  of  Jeremiah  throw 
much  light  upon  the  general  character  of  the  Jews  in 
his  days.  Avoiding  the  example  of  his  immediate  pre- 
decessors, he  “ did  that  which  was  right  in  the  sight  of 
the  Lord,  and  walked  in  all  the  ways  of  David  his  fa- 
ther, and  turned  not  aside  to  the  right  hand  or  to  the 
left”  (2  Kings  xxii,  2 ; 2 Chron.  xxxiv,  2). 

1.  So  early  as  the  sixteenth  year  of  his  age  (B.C. 
633)  he  began  to  manifest  that  enmity  to  idolatry  in  all 
its  forms  which  distinguished  his  character  and  reign ; 
and  he  was  not  quite  twenty  years  old  (B.C.  628)  when 
he  proclaimed  open  war  against  it,  although  more  or 
less  favored  by  many  men  of  rank  and  influence  in  the 
kingdom  (2  Chron.  xxxiv,  3).  He  then  commenced  a 
thorough  purification  of  the  land  from  all  taint  of  idola- 
try by  going  about  and  superintending  in  person  the 
operations  of  the  men  who  were  employed  in  breaking 
down  idolatrous  altars  and  images,  and  cutting  down 
the  groves  which  had  been  consecrated  to  idol-worship 
(see  Bertholdt,  De  puryatione  per  Josiam , Erl.  1817). 
His  detestation  of  idolatry  could  not  have  been  more 
strongly  expressed  than  by  ransacking  the  sepulchres 
of  the  idolatrous  priests  of  former  days,  and  consuming 
their  bones  upon  the  idol  altars  before  they  were  over- 
turned. Yet  this  operation,  although  unexampled  in 
Jewish  history,  was  foretold  345  years  before  Josiah 
was  born  by  the  prophet  who  was  commissioned  to  de- 
nounce to  Jeroboam  the  future  punishment  of  his  sin. 
He  even  named  Josiah  as  the  person  by  whom  this  act 
was  to  be  performed,  and  said  that  it  should  be  per- 
formed in  Beth-el,  which  was  then  a part  of  the  king- 
dom of  Israel  (1  Kings  xiii,  2).  All  this  seemed  much 
beyond  the  range  of  human  probabilities;  but  it  was 
performed  to  the  letter,  for  Josiah  did  not  confine  his 
proceedings  to  his  own  kingdom,  but  went  over  a con- 
siderable part  of  the  neighboring  kingdom  of  Israel, 
which  then  lay  comparatively  desolate,  with  the  same 
object  in  view ; and  at  Beth-el,  in  particular,  executed 
all  that  the  prophet  had  foretold  (2  Kings  xxiii,  1-19; 
2 Chron.  xxxiv,  3-7,  32).  In  these  proceedings  Josiah 
seems  to  have  been  actuated  by  an  absolute  hatred  of 
idolatry,  such  as  no  other  king  since  David  had  mani- 
fested, and  which  David  had  scarcely  occasion  to  mani- 
fest in  the  same  degree.  So  important  was  this  refor- 
mation of  the  public  cnltus  under  Josiah  that  it  forms 
an  epoch  whence  Jeremiah  dates  many  of  his  prophe- 
cies (Jer.  xxv,  3, 11,  29). 

2.  In  the  eighteenth  year  of  his  reign  and  the  twen- 
ty-sixth of  his  age  (B.C.  623),  when  the  land  had  been 
thoroughly  purified  from  idolatry  and  all  that  belonged 
to  it,  Josiah  proceeded  to  repair  and  beautify  the  Tem- 
ple of  the  Lord  (2  Kings  xxii,  3 ; xxiii,  23).  In  the 


course  of  this  pious  labor  the  high-priest  Hilkiah  dis- 
covered in  the  sanctuary  a volume,  which  proved  to 
contain  the  books  of  Moses,  and  which,  from  the  terms 
employed,  seems  to  have  been  considered  the  original 
of  the  law  as  written  by  Moses.  On  this  point  there 
has  been  much  anxious  discussion  and  some  rash  asser- 
tion. Some  writers  of  the  German  school  allege  that 
there  is  no  external  evidence — that  is,  evidence  besides 
the  law  itself — that  the  book  of  the  law  existed  till  it 
was  thus  produced  by  Hilkiah.  This  assertion  it  is  the 
less  necessary  to  answer  here,  as  it  will  be  noticed  in  the 
article  Pentateuch.  (See  also  De  Wette,  Beitr.  i,  168 
sq.;  Bertholdt,  Progr.  de  eo  quod  in  purgatione  sacror. 
Jud.  per  Josiam  facta  omnium  maxime  contigerit  memo - 
rabile , Erl.  1817;  also  in  his  Opusc.  p.  32  sq.)  But  it 
may  be  observed  that  it  is  founded  very  much  on  the 
fact  that  the  king  was  greatly  astonished  when  some 
parts  of  the  law  were  read  to  him.  It  is  indeed  perfect- 
ly manifest  that  he  had  previously  been  entirely  igno- 
rant of  much  that  he  then  heard ; and  he  rent  his  clothes 
in  consternation  when  he  found  that,  with  the  best  in- 
tentions to  serve  the  Lord,  he  and  all  his  people  had 
been  living  in  the  neglect  of  duties  which  the  law  de- 
clared to  be  of  vital  importance.  It  is  certainly  difficult 
to  account  for  this  ignorance.  Some  suppose  that  all 
the  copies  of  the  law  had  perished,  and  that  the  king 
had  never  seen  one.  But  this  is  very  unlikely;  for, 
however  scarce  complete  copies  may  have  been,  the 
pious  king  was  likely  to  have  been  the  possessor  of  one. 
The  probability  seems  to  be  that  the  passages  read  were 
those  awful  denunciations  against  disobedience  with 
which  the  book  of  Deuteronomy  concludes,  and  which, 
for  some  cause  or  other,  the  king  had  never  before  read, 
or  which  had  never  before  produced  on  his  mind  the 
same  strong  conviction  of  the  imminent  dangers  under 
which  the  nation  lay,  as  now  when  read  to  him  from  a 
volume  invested  with  a character  so  venerable,  and 
brought  with  such  interesting  circumstances  under  his 
notice.  We  should  bear  in  mind  that  it  is  very  difficult 
for  us  in  this  age  and  country  to  estimate  the  scantiness 
of  the  opportunities  which  were  then  open  to  laymen  of 
acquiring  literary  knowledge  connected  with  religion. 
The  special  commission  sent  forth  by  Jehoshaphat  (2 
Chron.  xvii,  7)  is  a proof  that  even  under  such  kings  as 
Asa  and  his  son  the  Levitcs  were  insufficient  for  the  re- 
ligious instruction  of  the  people.  What,  then,  must 
have  been  the  amount  of  information  accessible  to  a 
generation  which  had  grown  up  in  the  reigns  of  Manas- 
seh  and  Amon  ? We  do  not  know  that  the  law  was 
read  as  a stated  part  of  any  ordinary  public  service  in 
the  Temple  of  Solomon  (unless  the  injunction  Deut. 
xxxi,  10  was  obeyed  once  in  seven  years),  though  God 
was  worshipped  there  with  daily  sacrifice,  psalmody, 
and  prayer. 

The  king, in  his  alarm,  sent  to  Iluldah  “the  prophet- 
ess” for  her  counsel  in  this  emergency  [sec  Huldaii]  : 
her  answer  assured  him  that,  although  the  dread  penal- 
ties threatened  by  the  law  had  been  incurred  and  would 
be  inflicted,  he  should  be  gathered  in  peace  to  his  fa- 
thers before  the  days  of  punishment  and  sorrow  came. 

It  was  perhaps  not  without  some  hope  of  averting 
this  doom  that  the  king  immediately  called  the  people 
together  at  Jerusalem,  and  engaged  them  in  a solemn 
renewal  of  the  ancient  covenant  with  God.  When  this 
had  been  done,  the  Passover  was  celebrated  with  care- 
ful attention  to  the  directions  given  in  the  law,  and  on 
a scale  of  unexampled  magnificence.  (On  the  public 
importance  of  this  aera,  see  Ezek.  i,  1,  2.)  But  all  was 
too  late;  the  hour  of  mercy  had  passed;  for  “the  Lord 
turned  not  from  the  fierceness  of  his  great  wrath,  where- 
with his  anger  was  kindled  against  Judah”  (2  Kings 
xxii,  3-20;  xxiii,  21-27 ; 2 Chron.  xxxiv,  8-33;  xxxv, 
1-19). 

3.  That  removal  from  the  world  which  had  been 
promised  to  Josiah  as  a blessing  was  not  long  delayed, 
and  was  brought  about  in  a way  which  he  probably  had 
not  expected.  Pharaoh-necho,  king  of  Egypt,  sought 


1034 


JOST 


JOSIAII 


a passage  through  his  territories  on  an  expedition 
against  the  Chaldieans;  but  Josiali  refused  to  allow  the 
march  of  the  Egyptian  army  through  his  dominions, 
and  prepared  to  resist  the  attempt  by  force  of  arms.  His 
reason  for  this  opposition  has  usually  been  assumed  to 
have  been  a high  sense  of  loyalty  to  the  Assyrian  mon- 
arch, whose  t ri but  ary  he  is  supposed  to  have  been.  Such 
is  at  least  the  conjecture  of  Prideaux  ( Connection , anno 
G10)  and  of  Milman  ( History  of  the  Jews,  i,  3 IB).  But 
the  Bible  ascribes  no  such  chivalrous  motive  to  Josiah; 
and  it  does  not  occur  to  Josephus,  who  attributes  {Ant. 
x,  5,  1)  Josiah’s  resistance  merely  to  Fate  urging  him 
to  destruction*,  nor  to  the  author  of  I Esdr.  i,  28,  who 
describes  him  as  acting  wilfully  against  Jeremiah’s  ad- 
vice ; nor  to  Ewald,  who  (Gesch.  Isr.  iii,  707)  conjectures 
that  it  may  have  been  the  constant  aim  of  Josiah  to  re- 
store not  only  the  ritual,  but  also  the  kingdom  of  David 
in  its  full  extent  and  independence,  and  that  he  attacked 
Neclio  as  an  invader  of  what  he  considered  as  his  north- 
ern dominions.  This  conjecture,  if  equally  probable 
with  the  former,  is  equally  without  adequate  support  in 
the  Bible,  and  is  somewhat  derogatory  to  the  character 
of  Josiah.  Necho  was  very  unwilling  to  engage  in  hos- 
tilities with  Josiah  : the  appearance  of  the  Hebrew  army 
at  Megiddo  (comp.  Herod,  ii,  159),  however,  brought  on 
a battle,  in  which  the  king  of  Judah,  although  dis- 
guised for  security,  was  so  desperately  wounded  by  a 
random  arrow  that  his  attendants  removed  him  from 
the  war-chariot  and  placed  him  in  another,  in  which  he 
was  taken  to  Jerusalem,  where  he  died,  after  a reign  of 
thirty-one  years.  B.C.  609.  (See  J.  B.  Riesling’s  Es- 
say on  this  subject,  Lips.  1754.)  No  king  that  reigned 
in  Israel  was  ever  more  deeply  lamented  by  all  his  sub- 
jects than  Josiah ; and  we  are  told  that  the  prophet 
Jeremiah  composed  on  the  occasion  an  elegiac  ode, 
which  was  long  preserved  among  the  people  (2  Kings 
xxiii,  29-37 * 2 (Jhron.  xxxv,  20-27).  See  Lamenta- 
tions. Compare  the  narrative  in  2 Chron.  xxxv,  25 
with  the  allusions  in  Jer.  xxii,  10, 18,  and  Zech.  xii,  11, 
and  with  Jackson,  On  the  OmZ,  bk.viii,cli,  xxiii,  p.878. 
The  prediction  of  Huldah  that  he  should  “be  gathered 
into  the  grave  in  peace”  must  be  interpreted  in  accord- 
ance with  the  explanation  of  that  phrase  given  in  Jer. 
xxxiv,  5.  Some  excellent  remarks  on  it  may  be  found 
in  Jackson,  On  the  Creed,  bk.  xi,  ch.  xxxvi,  p.  664.  Jo- 
siah’s reformation  and  his  death  are  commented  on  by 
bishop  Hall,  Contemplations  on  the  O.  7’.,  bk.  xx.  See 
also  Howard,  History  of  Josiah  (London,  1842). 

4.  It  was  in  the  reign  of  Josiah  that  a nomadic  horde 
of  Scythians  overran  Asia  (llerod.  i,  104-106).  A de- 
tachment of  them  went  towards  Egypt  by  the  way  of 
l’hilistia : somewhere  southwards  of  Ascalon  they  were 
met  by  messengers  from  Vsammeticlms  and  induced  to 
turn  back.  They  are  not  mentioned  in  the  historical 
accounts  of  Josiali’s  reign;  but  Ewald  ( Die  Psalmen,  p. 
165)  conjectures  that  the  59tli  Psalm  was  composed  by 
king  Josiah  during  a siege  of  Jerusalem  by  these  Scyth- 
ians. The  town  Bcthshan  is  said  to  derive  its  Greek 
name  Seythopolis  (lleland,  Palccst.  p.  992;  Liglitfoot, 
C/tor.  Hare,  vii,  § 2)  from  these  invaders.  The  facility 
with  which  Josiah  appears  to  have  extended  his  au- 
thority in  the  land  of  Israel  is  adduced  as  an  indication 
that  the  Assyrian  conquerors  of  that  land  were  them- 
selves at  this  time  under  the  restraining  fear  of  some 
enemy.  The  prophecy  of  Zeplianiah  is  considered  to 
have  been  written  amid  the  terror  caused  by  their  ap- 
proach. The  same  people  are  described  at  a later  pe- 
riod by  Ezekiel  (xxviii).  Sec  Ewald,  Gesch.  Isr.  iii, 
689.  Abarbancl  (ap.  Kisonmenger,  Ent.  Jnd.  i,  858)  re- 
cords an  oral  tradition  of  the  Jews  to  the  effect  that  the 
ark  of  the  covenant,  which  Solomon  deposited  in  the 
Temple  (1  Kings  vi,  19),  was  removed  and  hidden  by 
Josiah  in  expectation  of  the  destruction  of  the  Temple, 
and  that  it  will  not  be  brought  again  to  light  until  the 
coming  of  Messiah. — Kitto ; Smith. 

2.  Son  of  Zeplianiah,  and  a resident  of  Jerusalem  after 
the  captivity,  in  whose  house  the  prophet  w as  directed 


to  crown  the  high-priest  Jeshua  as  a type  of  the  Mes- 
siah (Zech.  vi,  10).  B.C.  prob.  520.  “ It  has  been  con- 
jectured that  Josiah  was  either  a goldsmith,  or  treasurer 
of  the  Temple,  or  one  of  the  keepers  of  the  Temple,  who 
received  the  money  offered  by  the  worshippers,  but 
nothing  is  known  of  him.  Possibly  he  was  a descend- 
ant of  Zephaniah,  the  priest  mentioned  in  Jer.  xxi,  1 , 
xxxvii,  3 ; and  if  Hen  in  Zech.  vi,  15  be  a proper  name, 
which  is  doubtfid,  it  probably  refers  to  the  same  person, 
elsewhere  called  Josiah”  (Smith). 

Josi'as,  a Grmcized  form  of  the  name  of  (a)  ('lw- 
aiaCfVulg.  Josias)  Josiah  (q.  v.),  king  of  Judah  (1 
Esdr.  i,  1, 7, 18,  21-23,  25,  28,  29,  32-34 ; Ecclus.  xlix,  1, 
4;  Bar.  i,  8;  Matt,  i,  10,  11);  (5)  (’I taiag  v.  r.  ’Jetrai- 
«£,  Vulg.  Maasias'),  Jesiiaiau  (q.  v.),  the  son  of  Atlia- 
liah  (1  Esdr.viii,  33;  comp.  Ezra  viii,  7). 

Josibi'ah  (Heb.  Yoshibyah',  PP2(2i%  dweller  with 
Jehovah;  Sept.  ’iaaj3ia  v.  r.  A<r«/3<a),  son  of  Seraiah 
and  father  of  Jehu,  which  last  was  one  of  the  Simeon- 
ites  who  migrated  to  Gedor  (1  Chron.  iv,  35).  B.C. 
ante  711. 

Josiphi'ah  (Heb.  Yosiphyah',  increased 

by  Jehovah ; Sept,  ’iwottyi a),  one  of  the  “sons”  of  She- 
lomith  (as  the  Heb.  text  now  stands),  a chief  Israelite, 
whose  son  (Ben-Josiphiah)  returned  with  a company 
of  160  males  under  Ezra  to  Jerusalem  (Ezra  viii,  10). 
B.C.  459.  A word,  however,  has  evidently  fallen  out 
of  the  Hebrew  text  in  the  beginning  of  the  verse,  and  is 
supplied  by  the  Sept,  and  the  author  of  1 Esdr.  viii,  36, 
as  well  as  (less  correctly)  in  the  Syriac ; namely,  Bnnri 
(Bnv/d),  i.  e.  ‘,22,  omitted  from  similarity  to  833  pre- 
ceding: thus  making  Bani  (q.  v.)  the  son  of  Shelomith, 
and  the  leader  of  the  party  of  returned  exiles. 

Josippon.  See  Joseph  ben-Gorion. 

J oso,  Tokial,  one  of  Whitefield’s  preachers,  a na- 
tive of  Scotland,  was  a sea-captain  by  profession.  He 
had  a vigorous  mind,  had  been  fond  of  the  Bible  from 
his  youth,  and  had  acquired  a good  degree  of  education 
by  industrious  study  alone.  He  was  converted  by  the 
preaching  of  Mr.  Wesley  at  Robin  Hood’s  Bay,  and  soon 
after  began  to  preach  to  and  exhort  his  sailors  with 
much  effect,  who  were  converted  and  did  likewise.  Af- 
ter various  reverses  in  his  business,  he  -was  constrained 
by  White  field  to  give  himself  wholly  to  the  ministry, 
and  in  1766  he  became  his  colleague  at  the  Tabernacle 
and  Tottenham  Court.  His  preaching  in  London  had 
from  the  first  drawn  great  throngs  and  been  very  useful, 
and  his  popularity  was  only  second  to  that  of  White- 
field,  whose  associate  he  was  for  thirty  years  in  the  Cal- 
vinistic  Methodist  societies  of  London,  usually  itiner- 
ating in  England  and  Wales  fonr  or  five  months  annu- 
ally. See  Stevens,  Hist,  of  Methodism,  i,  450.  (G.L.T.) 

Jost,  Isaac  Marcus,  one  of  the  most  celebrated 
writers  of  modern  Jews,  the  first  of  his  people  since  the 
days  of  Josephus  to  write  a complete  history  of  the 
Jews,  was  born  at  Bernbnrg,  Germany,  Feb.  22,  1793. 
Ilis  father,  a poor  blind  man,  the  head  of  a family  of 
twelve  children,  was  obliged  to  depend  mainly  upon 
Marcus,  the  only  boy,  for  support,  and  great  and  severe 
were  the  struggles  which  he  had  to  endure  until,  in 
1803,  his  father  died,  and  the  youth  removed  to  Wolf- 
enbiittel,  where  his  grandfather  resided.  He  wras  now 
admitted  to  a Jewish  orphan  asylum,  where  one  of  his 
most  intimate  associates  w*as  the  celebrated  Jeivish  sa- 
vant Leopold  Zunz,  and  together  these  two  boys  pur- 
sued, under  great  disadvantages  and  deprivations,  ay, 
sufferings,  the  studies  necessary  to  admit  them  to  the 
higher  classes  of  the  gymnasium.  “Whole  nights,”  he 
touchingly  records,  “have  we  labored  by  the  tapers 
which  we  made  ourselves  from  the  wax  that  ran  down 
the  big  wax  candles  in  the  synagogue.  By  hard  study 
we  succeeded  in  bringing  it  so  far  in  the  course  of  the  six 
months  terminating  with  April,  1809,  that  we,  Zunz  in 
Wolfenbiittol  and  I in  Brunswick,  were  put  in  the  senior 
class  (prima)  in  the  gymnasium”  (Pasclieles,  Sippurim , 


JOT 


1035 


JOTBATIIAII 


3d  col.,  Prague,  1855,  p.  Ill  sq.).  After  four  years  of 
hard  study  he  removed  to  the  University  of  Gottingen, 
where  for  one  year  and  a half  he  pursued  with  great 
earnestness  studies  in  history,  philology,  philosophy, 
and  theology,  and  then  continued  his  investigations  at 
Berlin  University.  In  the  capital  of  Prussia  Jost  soon 
won  the  hearts  of  many  of  his  people,  and,  though  com- 
paratively a youth,  yet  succeeded  in  the  management 
of  a first-class  school,  to  which  flocked  the  children  of 
.Jew  and  Gentile.  In  1835  he  accepted  the  head-mas- 
tership of  the  Jewish  high-school  at  Frankfort -on-tlie- 
Main,  and  in  that  capacity  spent  the  remainder  of  his 
days.  lie  died  November  20,  18G0,  at  Frankfort-on- 
the-Main.  While  at  Berlin  he  published:  (1)  The  gi- 
gantic historical  work  entitled  Geschichte  der  Israeliten 
seit  der  Zeit  der  Maccabaer  bis  auf  unsere  Tage  (Ber- 
lin, 1820-28,  9 vols.) : — (2)  A llgcmcine  Geschichte  des  Is- 
raelitischen  Volkes,  etc.  (Berlin,  1831-32,  2 vols.  8vo), 
being  an  abridgment,  with  corrections,  of  the  former 
work:  — and  (3)  MSIE'S  ,,n3  Iri'B?,  the  Mislina,  with 
the  Hebrew  text  and  vowel-points,  accompanied  by  a 
German  translation,  a Babbinic  commentary,  and  Ger- 
man annotations  (Berlin,  1832-34,  G vols.),  besides  va- 
rious efforts  of  a philosophical  nature,  and  numberless 
contributions  to  Jewish  periodicals  of  all  grades  and  de- 
scriptions. In  Frankfort  the  same  literary  activity  con- 
tinued. In  1839  he  started  a weekly  journal  for  Jewish 
history,  literature,  etc.,  of  which  three  volumes  appear- 
ed, entitled  Jsraelitische  Annalen  (Frankft.  a.  M.  1839- 
41),  which  boasted  of  the  names  of  some  of  the  ablest 
of  Jewish  writers  as  contributors,  and  which  furnished 
articles  whose  value  every  true  Biblical  student  will  not 
fail  to  recognise,  in  fact,  for  many  items  of  information 
there  contained  we  would  look  elsewhere  in  vain.  To 
reawaken  an  interest  in  the  study  of  Hebrew,  he  started 
in  1841  (when  the  Annalen  were  discontinued),  in  con- 
junction with  the  distinguished  Jewish  writer  Creize- 
nach,  a periodical  in  Hebrew,  of  which  two  volumes  ap- 
peared, entitled  Ephemerides  Hebra'icce  s.  collectio 

dissertationum  maxime  theologies  rum,  variorumqae  He- 
braicorum  scriptorum , ad  ordinem  mensium  lunarium 
disposita  (Frankfort  a.  M.  1811-12).  Like  the  former 
journal,  it  constitutes  a very  important  contribution  to 
Biblical  and  Jewish  literature,  and  will  always  be  read 
with  great  pleasure  by  the  lover  of  the  sacred  language, 
owing  to  the  beautiful  Hebrew  style  in  which  it  is  writ- 
ten. At  the  same  time,  however,  Jost  was  also  laboring 
at  his  grand  history  of  the  Jews,  of  which  he  published 
(G),  in  1846-47,  three  more  parts,  under  the  title  Neuere 
Geschichte  der  Israeliten , etc.,  being  a continuation,  and 
forming  a tenth  volume,  of  his  great  historical  work; 
and  in  1857-59  he  finally  gave  to  the  •world,  as  the  re- 
sult of  his  life-long  historical  and  critical  researches,  the 
Geschichte  des  Judenthums  und  seiner  Secten , a work 
which  may  fitly  make  the  top  stone  of  the  great  histor- 
ical edifice  he  had  reared  so  perfectly  from  the  very  out- 
set. He  found  no  preparatory  work,  as  did  Griitz,  Munk, 
Zunz,  and  Iferzfeld ; he  was  obliged  to  collect  himself 
all  the  material  needful  for  his  great  undertaking,  and 
he  spared  no  pains  to  do  his  work  well.  Jost  deserves 
our  notice  also  as  a philanthropist : not  only  did  he  serve 
the  literary  world,  and  daily  work  for  the  advancement 
of  Jewish  interests  everywhere,  but  he  also  founded  an 
asylum  for  Jewish  female  orphans  in  the  city  which 
enjoyed  his  ripest  scholarship.  See  Jahrbuch  fur  die 
Gesch.  der  Juden  (Lpzg.  18G1,  12mo),  vol.  ii,  p.  vii  sq. ; 
Jiid.  Athenccum  (Grimma  and  Lpz.  1851, 18mo),  p.  117; 
Ehrenthcil,  Jiid . Charakterbilder  (Pesth,  18G7, 8vo),  No. 
i,  p.  G7  sq. ; Vapereau,  Dictionnaire  des  Contemporains, 
s.  v.  ( M . W.) 

Jot,  or,  rather,  Iota  (Twro),  the  smallest  letter  of 
the  Greek  alphabet  («),  derived  front  the  Hebrew  yod 
U),  and  answering  to  the  i (j)  or  y of  European 
languages.  Its  name  was  employed  metaphorically 
to  express  the  minutest  trifle.  It  is.  in  fact,  one  of 
several  metaphors  derived  from  the  alphabet,  as  when 


alpha,  the  first  letter,  and  omega,  the  last,  are  em- 
ployed to  express  the  beginning  and  the  end.  We 
are  not  to  suppose,  however,  that  this  proverb  was  ex- 
clusively apposite  in  the  Greek  language.  The  same 
practical  allusion  equally  existed  in  Hebrew,  some  curi- 
ous examples  of  which  may  be  seen  in  Wetstein  and 
Lightfoot.  One  of  these  may  here  suffice : In  the  Tal- 
mud ( Sanhed . xx,  2)  it  is  fabled  that  the  book  of  Deu- 
teronomy came  and  prostrated  itself  before  God,  and  said, 
“ O Lord  of  the  universe,  thou  hast  written  in  me  thy 
law,  but  now  a testament  defective  in  some  parts  is  de- 
fective in  all.  Behold,  Solomon  endeavors  to  Toot  the 
letter  jod  out  of  me”  (i.  e.  in  the  text, 

“he  shall  not  multiply  wives,”  Deut.  xvii,  17).  “The 
holy,  blessed  God  answered — Solomon,  and  a thousand 
such  as  he,  shall  perish,  but  the  least  word  shall  not 
perish  out  of  thee.”  This  is,  in  fact,  a parallel  not  only 
to  the  usage,  but  the  sentiment,  as  conveyed  in  Matt,  v, 
18,  “ One  jot  or  one  tittle  shall  in  no  wise  pass  from  the 
law." — Kitto.  The  propriety  of  the  use  of  this  letter 
for  such  a proverb  is  especially  evident  from  the  fact 
that  it  is  the  smallest  letter  of  the  II eb.  alphabet  like- 
wise, being,  in  fact,  often  dispensed  with  as  a mater  lec- 
tionis,  and  very  liable  to  be  omitted  in  writing  or  mis- 
taken for  a part  of  some  other  letter.  See  Tittle. 

Jotapata.  See  Jiphtiiaii-el. 

Jot'bah  (Heb.  Yotbah',  riBBp, goodness;  Sept.  ‘Irl- 
fia  v.  r.  Aeraxa,  Josephus  ’1  rn/3«r?y,  Ant.  x,  3,  2),  a 
town,  probably  of  Judah,  the  residence  of  Ilaruz,  whose 
daughter  Mcshullemeth  became  the  wife  of  king  Ma- 
nasseh  and  mother  of  Amon  (2  Kings  xxi,  19).  M.  de 
Saiilcv  ( Narrat . i,  94,  note)  suggests  its  identity  with 
Yitma,  a village  almost  in  ruins  on  the  north  side  of  the 
valley  (wady  Ribali),  north  of  Lebonah  and  south  of 
Nablus  (Robinson’s  Researches , ii,  92) ; but  this  would 
lie  within  the  precincts  of  the  late  kingdom  of  Israel. 
It  is  usually  identified  with  Jotbath  or  Jotbatha  of  the 
Exode  (Numb,  xxiii,  33,  34;  Deut.  x,  7),  as  the  names 
are  essentially  the  same  in  the  Heb. ; but  the  latter  is 
spoken  of  only  as  a region,  not  an  inhabited  town,  and 
is  out  of  the  bounds  of  the  Jewish  monarchy.  “The 
Arabic  equivalent  for  Jotbali  is  et-Taiyib,  or  et-Taiyi- 
beh,  and  no  less  than  three  sites  of  this  name  are  met 
with  in  modem  Palestine.  One  is  considerably  south 
of  Hebron  (Robinson,  Bib.  Res.  ii,  472) ; another  to  the 
west  of  that  city  (ib.  p. 427-129);  and  the  third  is  north 
of  Jerusalem,  in  the  country  of  Benjamin.  This  last  is 
most  likely  to  answer  to  Jotbali,  for  the  two  first-named 
places  are  very  insignificant,  and  never  can  have  been 
of  much  importance ; whereas  this  is  described  by  Dr. 
Robinson  as  crowning  a conspicuous  liillf  skirted  by  fer- 
tile basins  of  some  breadth,  . . . full  of  gardens  of  olives 
and  fig-trees.  The  remarkable  position  (he  adds)  would 
not  probably  have  been  left  unoccupied  in  ancient  times 
(Biblic.  Res.  ii,  121,  124).  In  a subsequent  visit  to  the 
place  he  was  struck  both  with  the  depth  and  quality  of 
the  soil,  which  were  more  than  oim  would  anticipate  in 
so  rocky  a region  ( Later  Bib.  Res.  p.  290).  These  ex- 
tracts explain  while  they  justify  the  signification  ‘good- 
ness,’ which  belongs  both  to  Jotbali  and  Taiyibeh” 
(Fairhaim,  s.  v.).  Against  this  identification,  however, 
there  lie  two  not  very  strong  objections,  namely,  its  dis- 
tance from  Jerusalem,  and  the  fact  of  the  probable  co- 
incidence of  this  site  with  that  of  Ophrah  (q.  v.). 

Jot'bath  (Deut.  x,  7).  See  Jotbatii ail 

Jot'bathah  [some  Jotba’thah ] (Heb.  Yotba'thah, 
PtrBB*',  goodness,  i.  e. pleasantness,  compare  A gathopolis 
[the  name  is  the  same  with  PtBB^,  Jotbah,  with  it  para- 
gogic  appended]  ; Sept.  Tsn/3n3a  v.  r.  Taifia-zd,  etc. , 
Auth.  Vers,  in  Deut.  x,  7,  “Jotbath”),  the  thirty-fourth 
station  of  the  Israelites  during  their  wandering  in  the 
desert,  situated  between  Hor-hagidgad  and  Ebronah 
(Numb.xxxiii,33,34),aiul  again  their  forty-first  station, 
between  Gudgodah  and  the  Red  Sea  (Deut.  x,  7).  de- 
scribed in  the  latter  passage  as  “ a land  of  rivers 


1036 


JOURNEY 


JOTIIAM 


winter -brooks)  of  waters.”  The  locality  thus  indicated 
is  probably  the  expanded  valley  near  the  confluence  of 
wady  Jerafeh  in  its  southern  part  with  wady  Mukutta 
el-Tuwarik  and  others  (Robinson’s  Researches , i,  26.1), 
especially  wady  cl-Adbeh,  which  nearly  approaches  the 
Heb.  name  {Jour.  Sac.  Lit.  April,  1860,  p.  47-49).  This 
is  generally  a region  answering  to  the  description  of 
fertility  (Bonar’s  Desert  of  Sinai,  p.  295).  Schwarz  {Pair 
estine,  p.  213),  however,  thinks  wady  Tuba,  nearer  the 
Akabah,  is  meant.  See  Exode. 

Jo'tham  (Heb.  Yotkam',  fini Jehovah  is  upright; 
Sept,  and  N.  Test.  ’IwdSap,  but  Tw«3d/i  in  1 Chron.  ii, 
47;  IwvaSav  v.  r.  TwoW  in  1 Chron.  iii,  12  ; v.r.’lw- 
in  I Chron.  v,  17;  v.  r.  ’I uiaSav  in  2 Chron.  xxvi, 
21 ; v.  r.  \iova$av  in  2 Chron.  xxvi, 23 ; Josephus  ’I ojci- 
Sapog,  .1  nt.  v,  7, 2 ; ix,  1 1 , 2 sq. ; Vulg.  Joathun  and  Jo- 
atham ; Auth.  Vers.  “ Joatham,”  Matt,  i,  9),  the  name  of 
several  men. 

1.  The  second  named  of  the  six  sons  of  Jahdai,  of  the 
family  of  Caleb  the  Hezronite  (1  Chron.  ii,  47).  B.C. 
post  i612. 

2.  The  youngest  of  Gideon’s  seventy  legitimate  sons, 
and  the  only  one  who  escaped  when  the  rest  were  mas- 
sacred by  tlie  order  of  Abimelech  (Judg.  ix,  5)  B.C. 
1322.  When  the  fratricide  wras  made  king  by  the  peo- 
ple of  Shechem,  the  young  Jotliam  was  so  daring  as  to 
make  his  appearance  on  Mount  Gerizim  for  the  purpose 
of  lifting  up  a protesting  voice,  and  of  giving  vent  to 
his  feelings  (see  Thomson,  Land  and  Booh,  ii,  210).  This 
he  did  in  a beautiful  parable,  wherein  the  trees  are  rep- 
resented as  making  choice  of  a king,  and  bestowing  on 
the  bramble  the  honor  which  the  cedar,  the  olive,  and 
the  vine  would  not  accept.  See  Fable.  The  obvious 
application,  which,  indeed,  Jotham  failed  not  himself  to 
point  out,  must  have  been  highly  exasperating  to  Abim- 
clecli  and  his  friends ; but  the  speaker  fled,  as  soon  as  he 
had  delivered  his  parable,  to  the  town  of  Beer,  and  re- 
mained there  out  of  his  brother’s  reach  (Judg.  ix,  7-21). 
We  hear  no  more  of  him;  but  three  years  after,  if  then 
living,  he  saw  the  accomplishment  of  the  malediction 
he  had  pronounced  (Judg.  ix,  57). — Kitto. 

3.  A person  named  by  Josephus  (Ta/d3fl/tof,  Ant.xin, 
1, 3)  as  the  son  of  Bukki  and  father  of  Meraioth,  in  the 
regular  line  of  Phinehas’s  descendants,  although  he  (in- 
correctly) states  that  these  lived  privately;  he  seems  to 
refer  to  Zeraiiiah  (q.v.)  of  the  scriptural  list  (l  Chron. 
vi,5).  See  IIiuii-phiest. 

4.  The  eleventh  king  of  the  separate  kingdom  of  Ju- 
dah, and  son  of  Uzziah  (by  Jernsha,  daughter  of  Za- 
dok),  whom  he  succeeded  B.C.  756;  he  reigned  sixteen 
years  (comp,  the  synchronism  in  1 Chron.  v,  17).  Ilis 
father  having  during  his  last  years  been  excluded  by 
leprosy  from  public  life,  the  government  was  adminis- 
tered by  his  son,  at  that  time  twenty-five  years  of  age 
(2  Chron.  xxvi,  21, 23 ; xxvii,  I ; 2 Kings  xv,  33).  B.C. 
7«1.  See  Uzziah.  For  the  chronological  difficulties 
of  his  reign  (see  Crnsius,  Ik  eera  Jothamica,  Lips.  1756; 
Winer’s  Reuhcurterb.  s.  v.),  see  Chronology.  Jotham 
profited  by  the  experience  which  the  reign  of  his  fa- 
ther, and  of  the  kings  who  preceded  him,  afforded,  and 
he  ruled  in  the  fear  of  God,  although  he  was  unable  to 
correct  all  tlie  corrupt  practices  into  which  the  people 
had  fallen.  Ilis  sincere  intentions  were  rewarded  with 
a prosperous  reign,  lie  was  successful  in  his  wars. 
The  Ammonites,  who  had “ given  gifts”  as  a sort  of  trib- 
ute to  Uzziah,  but  had  ceased  to  do  so  after  his  leprosy 
had  incapacitated  him  from  governing,  wrere  constrain- 
ed by  Jotham,  but  not  till  several  years  after  he  had  be- 
come settled  as  sole  monarch,  to  pay,  for  the  three  re- 
maining years  of  his  reign,  a heavy  tribute  in  silver, 
wheat,  and  barley  (2  Chron.  xxvi, 8 ; xxvii,  5, 6).  Many 
important  public  works  were  also  undertaken  and  ac- 
complished by  Jotham.  The  principal  gate  of  tlie  Tem- 
ple was  rebuilt  by  him  on  a more  magnificent  scale ; the 
quarter  of  Ophel,  in  Jerusalem,  was  strengthened  by  new 
lortifications ; various  towns  were  built  or  rebuilt  in  the 


mountains  of  Judah ; and  castles  and  towers  of  defence 
were  erected  in  the  wilderness.  Jotham  died  greatly 
lamented  by  his  people,  and  was  buried  in  the  sepulchre 
of  the  kings  (2  Kings  xv,  38 ; 2 Chron.  xvii,  3-9).  B.C. 
740. — Kitto.  His  reign  was  favored  with  the  ministra- 
tions of  the  prophets  Isaiah,  Ilosea,  and  Micah  (Isa.  i,  I ; 
vii,  1 , Hos.  i,  1 ; Mic.  i,  1).  See  Judah. 

5.  A high -priest  named  by  Josephus  (Twa3a/toe, 
Ant.  x,  8,  6)  as  son  of  Joel  and  father  of  Urijah  in  the 
regular  incumbency ; probably  the  Amamaii  (q.  v.)  of 
I Chron.  vi,  11).  See  Higii-priest. 

Joubert,  Francis,  a noted  French  ecclesiastical  wri- 
ter, born  at  Montpellier  Oct.  12. 1689,  entered  the  ser- 
vice of  the  Romish  Church  in  1728.  In  1730  he  was  im- 
prisoned in  the  Bastile  as  a Jansenist,  and  after-wards  ex- 
iled to  Montpellier.  He  subsequently  returned  to  Paris, 
and  there  died,  Dec.  23, 1763.  He  wrote  extensively,  espe- 
cially in  the  department  of  exegetical  theology.  Among 
his  best  works  we  reckon  E^lication  de  VHist.  de  Joseph 
(Paris,  1728, 12mo) : — Eclaircissement  sur  les  Discours 
de  Job  (12mo): — Traite  du  Caractere  essentiel  a tons  les 
Prophetes  (I2mo):  — Observations  sur  Joel  (Avignon, 
1733,  12mo)  i—Lettres  sur  l' Interpretation  des  Ecritures 
(Paris,  1744,  12mo):  — Concordance  et  Explication  des 
pnncipales  Propheties  de  Jeremie,  eVEzechiel  et  de  Dan- 
iel (Paris,  1745,4to)  : — Explication  des p?'incipules proph- 
eties, etc.  (Avignon  [Paris],  1749,  5 vols.): — Commenr 
taires  sur  les  Douze  petits  Prophetes  (Avignon,  1754,  6 
vols.  I2mo): — Commentaire  sur  F Apocalypse  (Avignon 
[Paris],  1762,  2 vols.  I2mo);  etc.  See  Chaudon  et  De- 
landine,  Did.  Univ.  Ilistor.  C?it.  et  Bibliogr.;  Querard, 
La  France  Litteraire ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biogr.  Generate, 
xxvii,  18.  ( J.  X.  P.) 

Jouffroy,  Theodore  Simon,  a noted  modern  French 
eclectic  philosopher,  was  bom  at  Pontets  in  1796.  In 
1832  he  became  professor  of  philosophy  at  the  College 
of  France,  and  continued  in  this  relation  until  1837.  lie 
died  in  1842.  He  was  by  far  the  most  celebrated  pupil 
of  Cousin,  and  very  popular  as  a writer  of  great  ele- 
gance of  style  and  terseness  of  diction.  lie  first  became 
known  to  the  public  at  large  through  the  medium  of 
a translation  of  Dugald  Stewart’s  Moral  Philosophy. 
To  this  translation  lie  prefixed  an  essay  or  preface,  in 
which  lie  vindicates  the  study  of  intellectual  science 
against  the  attacks  of  those  who  would  banish  all,  ex- 
cept natural  philosophy,  out  of  the  domain  of  human 
investigation.  “ Nothing,”  says  Morell  (Hist,  of  Mod. 
Phil.  p.  662),  “can  exceed  the  clearness,  and  even  the 
beauty,  with  which  he  establishes  in  this  little  produc- 
tion the  fundamental  principles  of  intellectual  philoso- 
phy.” To  a-  careful  observer  it  is  evident  that  he  had 
deeply  imbibed  the  principles  and  the  spirit  of  the  Scot- 
tish metaphysicians,  whilst,  at  the  same  time,  he  wrould 
generally  rise  to  those  more  expansive  views  of  philo- 
sophical truth  which  were  inculcated  in  the  lectures  of 
his  illustrious  instructor.  In  the  Melanges  Philoso- 
phiques  (Paris,  1833 ; 2d  edit.  1838-43),  the  second  work 
to  which  we  desire  to  call  attention,  “we  see,”  says 
Morell,  “ the  zealous  pupil  and  successor  of  Cousin,  the 
genuine  modem  eclectic,  touching  more  or  less  upon  all 
points  within  the  range  of  intellectual  philosophy,  and 
pouring  light  derived  from  all  directions  upon  them. 
We  feel  ourselves  in  company  with  a master  mind,  one 
who  does  not  servilely  follow  in  the  track  pointed  out 
by  others,  but  yet  who  knows  how  to  appreciate  the 
labors  of  all  true-hearted  thinkers,  and  to  make  their 
results  tell  upon  the  elucidation  of  his  own  system.” 
We  have  not  space  here  to  elucidate  his  system,  and 
refer  our  readers  to  Morell.  His  works  -were  published 
entire  in  6 octavo  vols.  in  1836.  See  Caro,  in  the  Revue 
de  deux  Mondes,  March  15,  1865. 

Journal,  or  Diurnal,  is  the  ancient  name  of  the 
day  hours  contained  in  the  Breviary  (q.  v.).  By  it  was 
also  known  in  monasteries  the  diary  of  daily  expenses. 

Journey  (prop.  “b3,  to  pull  up  the  stakes  of  one’s 


JOVE 


1037 


JOVINIAIST 


tent  preparatory  to  removal ; wopf vo/xai)  properly  re- 
fers to  travel  by  land.  See  Travelling. 

In  the  East,  a day's  journey  is  reckoned  about  sixteen 
or  twenty  miles.  To  this  distance  around  the  Hebrew 
camp  were  the  quails  scattered  for  food  for  the  people 
(Numb,  xi,  31).  Shaw  computes  the  eleven  days’  jour- 
ney from-  Sinai  to  Kadesh  Barnca  (Dcut.  i,  2)  to  be 
about  one  hundred  and  ten  miles.  The  first  day’s  jour- 
ney (Luke  ii,  44)  is  usually  a short  one  (Ilackett’s  II- 
lustra.  of  Script,  p.  12).  See  Day’s  Journey. 

A Sabbath-day's  journey  (Acts  i,  12)  is  reckoned  by 
the  Hebrews  at  about  seven  furlongs,  or  one  mile  and 
three  quarters,  and  it  is  said  that  if  any  Jew  travelled 
above  this  from  the  city  on  the  Sabbath  he  was  beaten. 
See  Sabbatii-dat’s  Journey. 

Jove.  See  Jupiter. 

Jouvenci  or  Jouvency,  Joseph  de,  an  eminent 
Jesuit,  was  born  at  Paris  Sept.  14,  1643.  He  taught 
rhetoric  with  uncommon  reputation  at  Caen,  La  Fleche, 
and  Paris,  and  at  length  was  invited  to  Rome,  in  order 
to  continue  the  “ History  of  the  Jesuits”  with  more  free- 
dom than  he  could  have  enjoyed  at  Paris.  His  other 
principal  works  are  two  volumes  of  speeches,  a small 
tract  entitled  De  Ratione  Discendi  et  Docendi , and  notes 
on  different  classical  writers.  In  his  history  of  the  Jes- 
uits he  attempts  to  justify  father  Guignard,  the  Jesuit, 
who  was  executed  for  encouraging  the  bigoted  assassin 
Chatel  in  his  attempt  on  the  life  of  Henry  IV.  In 
France  Parliament  prohibited  the  publication  or  circu- 
lation of  the  work  on  that  account.  See  Gorton,  Bioyr. 
Diet.  s.  v, 

Jovian  (sometimes,  but  erroneously,  called  Jovin- 
ian), fully  Flavius  Claudius  Jovianus,  Roman  em- 
peror from  A.D.  363  to  364.  His  predecessor  Julian 
was  slain  on  the  field  of  battle,  in  his  unhappy  cam- 
paign against  the  Persians,  June  26,  A.D.  363.  Jovi- 
anus, finding  the  continuation  of  the  unfortunate  strug- 
gle useless,  sought  its  termination,  and  secured  quite 
honorable  terms  from  the  Persians,  and,  once  free  from 
the  attacks  of  foreign  enemies,  he  at  once  initiated 
measures  to  establish  his  authority  in  the  West,  and 
hereafter  his  time  was  mainly  devoted  to  administra- 
tive and  legislative  business.  Immediately  after  his 
election  to  the  imperial  dignity  Jovianus  had  professed 
himself  to  be  a Christian,  and  one  of  his  first  measures 
when  peace  was  restored  to  his  dominions  was  the  cel- 
ebrated edict  by  which  he  placed  the  Christian  religion 
on  a legal  basis,  and  thus  put  an  end  to  the  persecutions 
to  which  the  Christians  had  been  exposed  during  the 
short  reign  of  Julian.  The  heathens  were,  however, 
equally  protected,  and  no  superiority  was  allowed  to  the 
one  over  the  other.  The  different  sectaries  assailed 
him  with  petitions  to  help  them  against  each  other,  but 
he  declined  interfering,  and  referred  them  to  the  decis- 
ion of  a general  council ; and  the  Arians  showing  them- 
selves most  troublesome,  he  gave  them  to  understand 
that  impartiality  was  the  first  duty  of  an  emperor.  His 
friend  Athanasius  was  restored  to  his  see  at  Alexandria. 
He  died  suddenly  on  his  way  home  from  the  Orient, 
A.D.  304.  It.  is  possible,  though  not  probable,  that  he 
died  a violent  death,  to  which  Ammianus  Marcellinus 
(xxv,  5-10)  seems  to  allude  when  he  compares  his  death 
with  that  of  .Emilianus  Scipio.  See  De  la  Bletcrie,  His- 
toire  de  Jovien  (Amsterdam,  1740),  the  best  work  on  the 
subject. — Smith,  Diet.  Grk.  ami  Rom.  Biog.  ii,  615. 

Jovinian,  emperor.  See  Jovian. 

Jovinian,  one  of  the  early  opponents  of  monachism, 
and,  in  a measure,  one  of  the  earliest  reformers  before 
the  Reformation,  flourished  near  the  end  of  the  4th  cen- 
tury. He  was  an  Italian,  but  whether  a native  of  Rome 
or  Milan  is  not  known.  He  taught  in  both  cities,  and 
gained  a number  of  adherents.  His  real  opinions,  freed 
from  the  misrepresentations  of  his  opponents,  it  is  hard- 
ly possible  to  ascertain;  it  is  apparent,  however,  that 
he  opposed  asceticism,  which  we  find  so  generally  and 
strenuously  advocated  in  the  writings  of  the  Church 


fathers  of  the  4th  century.  He  evidently  maintained 
“ that  there  is  but  one  divine  element  of  life,  which  all 
believers  share  in  common ; but  one  fellowship  with 
Christ,  which  proceeds  from  faith  in  him ; but  one  new 
birth.  All  who  possess  this  in  common  with  each  other 
— all,  therefore,  who  are  Christians  in  the  true  sense, 
not  barely  in  outward  profession — have  the  same  call- 
ing, the  same  dignity,  the  same  heavenly  blessings;  the 
diversity  of  outward  circumstances  creating  no  differ- 
ence in  this  respect,  that  all  persons  whatsoever,  if  they 
keep  the  vows  they  make  to  Christ  in  baptism  and  live 
godly  lives,  have  an  equal  title  to  the  rewards  of  heav- 
en, and,  consequently,  that  those  who  spend  their  lives 
in  celibacy  or  macerate  their  bodies  by  fasting  are  no 
more  acceptable  to  God  than  those  who  live  in  wedlock, 
and  nourish  their  bodies  with  moderation  and  sobriety.” 
He  also  held  that  Mary  ceased  to  be  a virgin  by  bring- 
ing forth  Christ ; that  the  degrees  of  future  blessedness 
do  not  depend  on  the  meritoriousness  of  our  good  works ; 
and  that  a truly  converted  Christian,  so  long  as  he  is 
such,  cannot  sin  wilfully,  but  will  resist  and  overcome  the 
temptations  of  the  devil.  Yet,  while  upholding  all  these 
views,  Jovinian  himself  remained  single,  and  lived  like 
all  other  monks,  and  his  enemies  even  admit  that  the  ten- 
or of  his  life  was  always  blameless.  He  first  advocated 
his  opinions  at  Milan,  but,  being  there  denied  by  the  stern 
Ambrose  all  liberty  of  speech,  he  went  to  Rome,  which, 
as  appears  from  the  evidence  of  Jerome,  was  one  of  the 
last  places  to  entertain  the  ascetic  fanaticism ; nor  was 
it  until  after  monasteries  hail  darkened  all  parts  of  the 
East,  as  well  as  many  of  the  West,  that  these  establish- 
ments were  seen  in  that  city.  There,  according  to  the 
report  of  pope  Syricius  and  others,  the  doctrine  of  the 
Milanese  monk  had  made  many  converts,  so  that  the 
Church,  “torn  by  dogs”  in  a manner  heretofore  un- 
heard of,  doubted  whereto  so  unlooked  for  an  assault 
might  proceed.  Not  a few  of  the  laity,  if  not  of  the 
clergy,  had  listened  to  Jovinian ; and  eight  persons  are 
named  as  his  supporters,  who,  with  him,  were,  by  a 
unanimous  decision  of  the  Romish  clergy,  condemned 
and  excommunicated  in  a council  held  at  Milan  in  390, 
as  the  authors  of  a “ new  heresy,  and  of  blasphemy ;” 
and  they  were  forever  expelled  from  the  Church.  “ Pi- 
late and  Herod”  were  at  one  in  this  instance.  Pope 
Syricius  confirmed  the  condemnation,  the  emperor  Ho- 
norins  enacted  penal  laws  against  the  Jovinians,  and 
Jovinian  himself  was  banished  to  the  desolate  island 
of  Boa,  off  the  coast  of  Illyria,  and  there  died  before 
A.D.  406.  But  Jovinian  had  also  written,  as  well  as 
preached,  in  support  of  his  opinions,  which  continued  to 
spread  on  all  sides,  notwithstanding  the  terrors  of  Church 
authority.  At  Rome,  although  none  dared  openly  to 
profess  jovinian’s  heresy,  it  was  nevertheless  covertly 
taught,  and  was  whispered  about,  even  to  such  an  ex- 
tent that  certain  nuns  fell  into  matrimony  in  conse- 
quence of  its  prevalence.  In  this  emergency,  and  in 
aid  of  the  endeavors  of  the  Romish  Church  to  crush 
the  “monstrous  doctrine,”  the  good  Augustine,  a tool 
of  bad  men,  came  forth  in  defence  of  the  “ orthodox” 
practices  and  principles  ol  the  ascetics ; and  in  his  trea- 
tise De  botio  conjugal},  and  in  others  of  a similar  kind, 
he.  labors  hard,  by  wily  sophistry,  to  reconcile  the  pre- 
vailing absurdities  with  reason  and  Scripture.  The 
mild,  pious,  and  honest  Augustine,  however,  was  not  the 
mgn  to  be  the  Church’s  thorough-going  champion  on 
this  notable  occasion : she  had  a better  man  at  hand ; 
“one  who,  by  various  learning,  by  a voluble  pen,  as  well 
as  by  rancor  of  temper,  and  boundless  arrogance,  and  a 
blind  devotion  to  whatever  ‘ the  Church'  had  sanction- 
ed, was  well  qualified  to  do  the  necessary  work  of  cajol- 
ing the  simple,  of  inflaming  the  fanatical,  of  frightening 
the  timid,  of  calumniating  the  innocent,  and,  in  a word, 
of  quashing,  il  it  could  be  quashed,  all  inquiry  concern- 
ing ‘ authorized’  errors  and  abuses.  The  Church,  right 
or  wrong,  was  to  be  justified  ; the  objector,  innocent  or 
guilty,,  was  to  be  crushed;  and  Jerome  would  scruple 
nothing  could  he  but  accomplish  so  desirable  an  object.” 


1038 


JOY 

See  Jerome.  But,  notwithstanding  these  attacks  by 
the  Church’s  three  greatest  doctors— Augustine,  Am- 
brose, and  Jerome,  whose  great  irritation  and  anxiety 
fur  the  cause  of  the  Church  is  sufficiently  betrayed  by 
their  determination  to  oppose  Jovinianism  jointly, 
though  living  at  points  quite  remote  from  eacli  other— 
the  “ heresy,”  instead  of  dying  out,  spread,  and  was  fa- 
vorably thought  of  and  accepted  in  different  parts  of 
Christendom,  and  no  doubt  made  easier  the  task  of 
Yigilantius  and  of  Luther.  Neander  does  not  hesitate 
to  rank  the  sendees  of  Jovinian  so  high  as  to  consider 
him  worthy  of  a place  by  the  side  of  Luther.  See  Ne- 
ander, Ch.  Hist,  ii,  2G5  sq.;  Schaff,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  226  sq.; 
Ambrosius,  Epist.  42;  Augustine,  De  I/ares.  c.  82;  Ba- 
ronins, A nnales  Eccl.  p.  390,  412 ; Walcli,  Ketzerhistorie , 
iii,  635  sq.;  Baur,  Christ l.  Kirche  (4th  to  6th  century), 
p.311  sq.;  Lindner,  De  Joviniano  et  Vigilantio  purioris 
doctrince  antesigiumis  (Lpz.  1839). 

Joy  (usually  some  form  of  which  prop,  means 
to  spin  round  with  pleasurable  emotion,  and  is  thus  a 
stronger  term  than  flVL',  which  expresses  gladness ; but 
less  so  than  j^?,  to  exult  or  leap  with  exuberant  joy , 
Gr.  prop.  xaP«)i  a delight  of  the  mind  arising  from  the 
consideration  of  a present  or  assured  approaching  pos- 
session of  a future  good  (Ezra  vi,  16  Estli.  viii,  16).  1. 

Natural  joy  is  of  various  degrees : when  it  is  moder- 
ate, it  is  called  gladness;  when  raised  on  a sudden  to 
the  highest  degree,  it  is  then  exultation  or  transport ; 
when  we  limit  our  desires  by  our  possessions,  it  is  con- 
tentment; when  our  desires  are  raised  high,  and  yet  ac- 
complished, this  is  called  satisfaction,  when  our  joy  is 
derived  from  some  comical  occasion  or  amusement,  it  is 
mirth;  if  it  arise  from  considerable  opposition  that  is 
vanquished  in  the  pursuit  of  the  good  we  desire,  it  is 
then  called  triumph ; when  joy  has  so  long  possessed 
the  mind  that  it  is  settled  into  a temper,  we  call  it  cheer- 
fulness; when  we  rejoice  upon  the  account  of  any  good 
which  others  obtain,  it  may  be  called  sympathy  or  con- 
gratulation. 2.  Moral  joy  is  also  of  several  kinds,  as 
the  self-approbation,  or  that  which  arises  from  the  per- 
formance of  any  good  actions ; this  is  called  peace , or 
serenity  of  conscience;  if  the  action  be  honorable  and 
the  joy  rise  high,  it  may  be  called  glory.  3.  There  is 
also  a spiritual  joy,  which  the  Scripture  calls  a “ fruit 
of  the  Spirit”  (Gal.  v,  22),  “the  joy  of  faith”  (Phil.  i. 
25),  and  “ the  rejoicing  of  hope”  (Heb.  iii,  6).  The  ob- 
jects of  it  are — (1.)  God  himself  (Psa.  xliii,  4 , Isa.  Ixi, 
10).  (2.)  Christ  (Phil,  iii,  3;  1 Pet.  i,  8).  (3.)  The 
promises  (Psa.  cxix,  162).  (4.)  The  administration  of 

t he  Gospel  and  Gospel  ordinances  (Psa.  lxxxix,  15). 
(5.)  The  prosperity  of  the  interest  of  Christ  (Acts  xv,  3 ; 
llev.  xi,  15,  17).  (G.)  The  happiness  of  a future  state 

(Pom.  v,  2 ; Matt.  xxv).  The  nature  and  properties  of 
this  joy : [1.]  It  is,  or  should  be,  constant  (Phil,  iv,  4). 
[2.]  It  is  unknown  to  the  men  of  the  world  (1  Cor.  ii, 
14).  [3.J  It  is  unspeakable  (1  Pet.  i,  8).  [4.J  It  is 

permanent  (John  xvi,  22).  See  Watts,  On  Pass.  sec. 
11 ; Gill’s  Body  of  Dir.  iii,  111,  8vo  ed. ; Grove’s  Moral 
Phil,  i,  356;  Henderson's  Buck. 

Joy  ok  God  relates,  1.  To  the  delight  and  compla- 
cency he  has  in  himself,  his  own  nature,  and  perfections. 
2.  lie  rejoices  in  his  own  works  (Psa. civ, 31).  3.  In  his 
Son  Christ  Jesus  (Matt,  iii,  17).  4.  In  the  work  of  re- 
demption (John  iii,  15).  5.  In  the  subjects  of  his  grace 
(Psa.  cxlvii,  11 ; Zepli.  iii,  17 ; Psa.  cxlix,  4).— Hender- 
son’s Buck. 

Joy  or  Joye,  George,  an  early  promoter  of  the 
Reformation,  a native  of  the  county  of  Bedford,  was  ed- 
ucated at  Peterhouse,  Cambridge,  where  he  graduated 
]\I.A.  in  1517.  An  associate  of  Tyndale,  he  was  in  1527 
accused  of  heresy,  and  obliged  to  go  to  Germany,  where 
he  resided  for  many  years,  lie  was  concerned  in  the 
superintendence  of  Tyiulale’s  Bibles,  printed  at  Antwerp, 
and  finally  returned  to  his  native  country,  but  the  time 
of  his  death  is  unknown.  Besides  his  translation  of  part 
of  the  Bible,  he  published  On  the  Unity  and  Schism  of 


JUAN  VALDEZ 

the  ancient  Church  (1534) : — Subversion  of  More's  False 
Foundation  (1534) : — Commentary  on  Daniel , in  the  main 
from  Melancthon,  etc.  See  Gorton,  Biog . Diet.  s.  v. 

Joyner,  James  E.,  a minister  of  the  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church  South,  ivas  bom  in  Amherst  Count)', 
Va.,  and  died  at  his  own  home  in  Heigy  County,  Va., 
March  15, 1868.  For  more  than  thirty  years  Joyner 
served  the  Church  with  great  acceptability  and  useful- 
ness in  various  appointments.  His  preaching  was  ear- 
nest, pointed,  and  eminently  practical.  During  the  late 
Avar  lie  served  as  a chaplain  in  the  Confederate  States 
army,  and  exerted  among  the  officers  and  men  an  influ- 
ence for  good  Avhich  was  felt  and  acknowdedged  by  all. 
— Conf.  Minutes  M.  E.  Church  South,  iii,  203. 

Joz'abad  (Heb.  Yozabad',  “ntT1,  a contraction  for 
Jehozabad;  Sept.  A tot,  a fide,  but  sometimes  in  Chron. 
’luiZafidS  v.  r.  ’I  (oZafiaiS,  ‘leZtfiovS  ; also  ’line  a file  or 
’hncafidd  in  Nell.;  Autli.  Vers.  “Josabad”  in  1 Chron. 
xii,  4),  the  name  of  several  men. 

1.  A Gederat lute,  one  of  the  famous  Benjamite  arch- 
ers Avho  joined  David  at  Ziklag  (1  Chron.  xii,  4).  B.C, 
1055. 

2.  A chiliarch  of  Manasseh,  who  re-enforced  DaA'id 
on  retreating  to  Ziklag  (1  Chron.  xii,  20).  B.C.  1053. 

3.  Another  chiliarch  of  Manasseh,  who  deserted  Saul’s 
cause  for  that  of  David  Avhen  he  made  Ziklag  his  resi- 
dence (1  Chrou.  xii,  20) ; it  is  possible,  however,  that 
the  name  has  been  erroneously  repeated  for  the  preced- 
ing. B.C. 1053. 

4.  Probably  a Levite,  one  of  the  persons  charged  with 
the  care  of  the  Temple  offerings  under  the  superintend- 
ence of  Cononiah  and  Shimei,  at  the  reformation  by 
Hezekiah  (2  Chron.  xxxi,  13).  B.C.  726. 

5.  One  of  the  chief  Levites  Avho  made  offerings  for 
the  renewal  of  the  Temple  services  under  Josiah  (2 
Chron.  xxxv,  9).  B.C.  623. 

6.  A son  of  Jeshua,  and  one  of  the  LeA'ites  who  took 
account  of  the  precious  metals  and  vessels  offered  for 
the  Temple  by  the  Israelites  who  declined  personally  to 
return  from  the  captivity  (Ezra  viii,  33).  B.C.  459. 
lie  Avas  probably  the  same  w ith  one  of  the  chief  Levites 
Avho“  had  the  oversight  of  the  oulAAard  matters  of  the 
house  of  God”  after  the  re-establishment  at  Jerusalem 
(Neh.  xi,  16).  B.C.  cir.  440.  He  Avas  possibly  identical 
Avitli  No.  8. 

7.  An  Israelite,  one  of  the  “ sons”  of  Pashur,  Avho  di- 
vorced his  Gentile  Avife  after  the  exile  (Ezra  x,  22). 
B.C.  459. 

8 One  of  the  Levites  wrho  dh'orced  his  heathen  Avife 
after  the  return  from  Babylon  (Ezra  x,  23).  B.C.  459. 
He  is  probably  identical  Avith  one  of  the  Levites  who 
assisted  Ezra  in  expounding  the  LaAV  to  the  people  as- 
sembled in  the  Tvropceon  (Neh.  A’iii,  7).  B.C.  cir.  410. 

Joz'acliar  (Heb.  Yozakar “-“V,  Jehovah-remem- 
bered; Sept.  \\  r.  ’ItZtp\dp),  the  son  of  Sliim- 

eatli,  an  Ammonites*,  one  of  the  tAvo  servants  Avho  as- 
sassinated Jehoasli,  king  of  Judah,  in  Millo  (2  Kings  xii, 
21).  In  the  parallel  passage  (2  Chron.  xxiv,  26)  the 
name  is  erroneously  AATitten  Zabad.  B.C.  837.  “ It  is 

uncertain  Avhctlier  their  conspiracy  wras  prompted  by  a 
personal  feeling  of  rcA’enge  for  the  death  of  Zechariah, 
as  Josephus  intimates  (Ant.  ix,  8,4),  or  whether  they 
Avere  urged  to  it  by  the  family  of  Jehoiada.  The  care 
of  the  chronicler  to  show  that  they  AA'ere  of  foreign  de- 
scent seems  almost  intended  to  disarm  a suspicion  that 
the  king’s  assassination  wTas  an  act  of  priestly  A'engeance. 
But  it  is  more  likely  that  the  conspiracy  had  a different 
origiii  altogether,  and  that  the  king’s  murder  AA’as  re- 
garded by  the  chronicler  as  an  instance  of  di\'ine  retri- 
bution. On  the  accession  of  Amaziah  the  conspirators 
Avere  executed”  (Smith). 

Joz'adak  (Ezra  iii,  2,8;  v,  2;  x,  18;  Neh.  xii,  26). 
See  Jehozadak. 

Juan  de  Dios.  See  John  de  Dieu. 

Juan  Valdez.  See  Valdez. 


1039 


JUBILEE 


JUBAL 

Ju'bal  (Heb.  Tubal',  bz^,  prob.  for  bzi\  jubilee,  i. 
e.  music , Sept.  Tou/3aA),  Lamech’s  secoml  son  by  Adah, 
of  the  line  of  Cain ; described  as  the  inventor  of  the 
*TiS3,  kinnor,  and  the  MW,  ugab,  rendered  in  our  ver- 
sion “ the  harp  and  the  organ,”  but  perhaps  more  prop- 
erly “the  lyre  and  mouth-organ ,”  or  Pamlrean  pipe  (Gen. 
iv,  21).  See  Music.  B.C.  prob.  eir.  3490.  According 
to  Josephus  (’ lov(3a\og , Ant.  i,2, 2), t;  he  cultivated  mu- 
sic, and  invented  the  psaltery  and  citliara.”  Some  have 
compared  him  with  the.  Apollo  of  heathen  mythology 
(llasse’s  Entdeck.  ii,  37;  comp.  Euseb.  Prcep.  Evang.  x, 
(i;  Diod.  Sic.  i,  20;  Butt  maim,  Mythol.  i,  1G4;  Kalisch, 
Commentary , ad  loc.). 

Jubilate.  See  Sunday. 

Ju'bilee  (Heb.  Yobel',  int'  or  bz\  a joyful  shout 
or  clangor  of  trumpets;  once  in  the  Author.  Vers,  for 
rwnn,  Lev.  xxv,  9,  which  is  elsewhere  rendered  “a 
shout,”  etc.),  usually  in  the  connection  Year  of  Jubi- 
lee (ba’T"!!  F3T2,  or  merely  as  in  Lev*  xxv>  28  * 

Septuag.  usually  translates  t roc  TVQ  dtpkosiog,  or  simply 
d<ptmg;  but  Gnecizes  Tw/3jj\  in  Josh,  vi,  8,  13;  Jose- 
phus Graecizes  Tw/3?/\oc,  Ant.  iii,  12,  3 ; Vulgate  annus 
jubilee,  or  jubileeus,  but  buccina  in  Exod.  xix,  13)  ■ also 
called  the  “year  of  liberty"  p’m  P31T,  Ezek.  xlvi,  17), 
the  great,  semi-centennial  epoch  of  the  Hebrews,  con- 
stituting a festival,  and  marked  by  striking  public  and 
domestic  changes.  The  relation  in  which  it  stood  to 
the  sabbatical  year,  and  the  general  directions  for  its 
observance,  are  given  Lev.  xxv,  8-1G  and  23-55.  Its 
bearing  on  lands  dedicated  to  Jehovah  is  stated  Lev. 
xxvii,  1G-25.  There  is  no  mention  of  the  jubilee  in 
the  book  of  Deuteronomy,  and  the  only  other  reference 
to  it  in  the  Pentateuch  is  in  the  appeal  of  the  tribe  of 
Manassch,  on  account  of  the  daughters  of  Zelophcliad 
(Numb.  xxxvi,4).  In  the  following  statements  wc  large- 
ly use  Ginsburg’s  art.  on  the  subject  in  Kitto’s  Cyclopae- 
dia, with  additions  from  other  sources.  See  Festival. 

I.  Signification  of  the  Name.— According  to  pseudo- 
Jonathan  ( Targum  on  Josh,  vi,  5-9),  the  Talmud  (Posh 
JIa-shana,  2G,  a),  Rashi,  Aben-Ezra  (on  Exod.  xix,  3), 
Kimchi  (on  Josh,  v,  G),  and  other  Jewish  authorities,  the 
meaning  ram,  which  seems  at  times  to  bear  (see 
Fiirst,  Lexicon,  s.  v. ; but  Gesenius  utterly  denies  this 
sense),  is  the  primary  one ; hence  metonymically  a ranis 
horn  (comp.  Exod.  xix,  13  with  Josh,  vi,  5);  and  so  the 
sound  of  a ram’s  horn,  like  the  Latin  buccina.  Accord- 
ing to  another  ancient  interpretation,  the  Heb.  word  is 
from  a root  bz*,  to  liberate  (parallel  with  1111,  a freed 
captive;  comp.  Hitzig  on  Jer.  xxxiv,  8) ; an  etymology 
which  is  somewhat  sanctioned  by  Lev.  xxv,  10,  and  the 
usual  rendering  of  the  Sept,  (also  Josephus,  kXev&spiav 
ik  aiipaivH  rovvoya,  Ant.  iii,  12,3;  and  by  St.  Jerome, 
Jobel  est  demittens  aut  mittens,  Comment,  ad  loc.).  Oth- 
ers, again,  regard  the  root  bz^  as  onomatopoetic,  like 
the  Lntmjubilure,  denoting  to  be  jubilant  (Gesenius,  etc.). 
Most  modern  critics,  however,  derive  from  the  bet- 
ter known  root  to  flow  impetuously  (Gen.  vi,  17), 
and  hence  assign  to  it  the  meaning  of  the  loud  or  impet- 
uous sound  (Gen.  iv,  21)  streaming  forth  from  the  trum- 
pet, and  proclaiming  this  festival.  The  other  notions 
respecting  the  word  may  be  found  in  Fuller  (Misc.  Site. 
p.  102G  sq. ; Critici  Sacri,  vol.  ix),  in  Carpzov  (p.  448 
sq.),  and,  most  completely  given,  in  Kranold  (p.  11  sq.). 

II.  Laics  connected  with  this  Festival. — These  embrace 
the  following  three  main  points: 

1.  Rest  for  the  Soil. — This  enactment,  which  is  com- 
prised in  Lev.  xxv,  11, 12,  enjoins  that,  as  on  the  Sab- 
batical year,  the  land  should  lie  fallow,  and  that  there 
should  be  no  tillage  nor  harvest  during  the  jubilee  year. 
The  Israelites,  however,  were  permitted  to  fetch  the 
spontaneous  produce  of  the  field  for  their  immediate 
wants  (nnxmn  rx  ’lbsxn  mm  p),  but  not  to 
lay  ijD  up  in  their  storehouses. 


2.  Reversion  of  landed  Property. — This  provision  is 
comprised  in  Lev.  xxv,  13-34 ; xxvii,  1G-24.  The  Mo- 
saic law  enacted  that  the  Promised  Land  should  be  di- 
vided by  lot,  in  equal  parts,  among  the  Israelites,  and 
that  the  plot  which  should  thus  come  into  the  posses- 
sion of  each  family  was  to  be  absolutely  inalienable,  and 
forever  continue  to  be  the  property  of  the  descendants 
of  the  original  possessor.  See  Land.  When  a propri- 
etor, therefore,  being  pressed  by  poverty,  had  to  dispose 
of  a field,  no  one  could  buy  it  of  him  for  a longer  period 
than  up  to  the  time  of  the  next  jubilee,  when  it  revert- 
ed to  the  original  possessor,  or  to  his  family.  Hence 
the  sale,  properly  speaking,  was  not  of  the  laud,  but  of 
the  produce  of  so  many  years,  and  the  price  was  fixed 
according  to  the  number  of  years  (PX'nn  “'3113)  up  to 
the  next  jubilee,  so  as  to  prevent  any  injustice  being 
done  to  those  who  were  compelled  by  circumstances  to 
part  temporarily  with  their  land  (Lev.  xxv,  15, 16).  The 
lessee,  however,  according  to  Josephus,  in  case  he  had 
made  great  outlays  on  the  field  just  before  he  was  re- 
quired by  the  law  of  jubilee  to  return  it  to  its  owner, 
could  claim  compensation  for  these  (Ant.  iii,  12,3).  But 
even  before  the  jubilee  year  the  original  proprietor  could 
recover  his  field,  if  either  his  own  circumstances  im- 
proved, or  if  his  next  of  kin  (see  Goel)  could  redeem  it 
for  him  by  paying  back  according  to  the  same  price 
which  regulated  the  purchase  (Lev.  xxv,  2G,  27).  In 
the  interests  of  the  purchaser,  however,  the  Rabbinical 
law  enacted  that  this  redemption  should  not  take  place 
before  he  had  the  benefit  of  the  field  for  two  productive 
years  (so  the  Rabbins  understood  nXIMi  "OIL'),  exclu- 
sive of  a sabbatical  year,  a year  of  barrenness,  and  of 
the  first  harvest,  if  he  happened  to  buy  the  plot  of  land  . 
shortly  before  the  seventh  month,  i.  e.  with  the  ripe  ' 
fruit  (Era chin,  ix,  1 ; Maimonides,  Jobel,  xi,  10-13).  As 
poverty  is  the  only  reason  which  the  law  supposes 
might  lead  one  to  part  with  his  field,  the  Rabbins  en- 
acted that  it  was  not  allowable  for  any  one  to  sell  his 
patrimony  on  speculation  (comp.  Maimonides,  Jobel , xi, 
3).  Though  nothing  is  here  said  about  fields  which 
were  given  away  bv  the  proprietors,  yet  there  can  be  no 
doubt,  as  Maimonides  says  (ibid,  xi,  10),  that  the  same 
law  is  intended  to  apply  to  gifts  (comp.  Ezek.  xlvi,  17), 
but  not  to  those  plots  of  land  which  came  into  a man’s 
possession  through  marriage  with  an  heiress  (Numb. 
xxxvi,4-9;  compare  Mishna,  Berachoth, viii,  10).  Nei- 
ther did  this  law  apply  to  a house  in  a walled  city. 
Still,  the  seller  had  the  privilege  of  redeeming  it  at  any 
time  within  a full  j ear  from  the  day  of  the  sale.  After 
the  year  it  became  the  absolute  property  of  the  pur- 
chaser (Lev.  xxv,  29,  30,  Keri).  As  this  law  required 
a more  minute  definition  for  practical  purposes,  the  Rab- 
bins determined  that  this  right  of  redemption  might  be 
exercised  from  the  very  first  day  of  the  sale  to  the  last 
day  which  made  up  the  year.  Moreover,  as  the  pur- 
chaser sometimes  concealed  himself  towards  the  end  of 
the  year,  in  order  to  prevent  the  seller  from  redeeming 
his  house,  it  was  enacted  that  when  the  purchaser  could 
not  be  found,  the  original  proprietor  should  hand  over 
the  redemption-money  to  the  powers  that  be,  break  open 
the  doors,  and  take  possession  of  the  house ; and  if  the 
purchaser  died  during  the  year,  the  original  proprietor 
could  redeem  it  from  the  heir  (comp.  Mishna,  Erachin, 
ix,  3, 4 ; Maimonides,  Jobel,  xii,  1 -7).  Open  places,  how- 
ever, which  arc  not  surrounded  by  walls,  belong  to  land- 
ed property,  and,  like  the  cultivated  land  on  which  they 
stand,  are  subject  to  the  law  of  jubilee,  and  must  revert 
to  their  original  proprietors  (Lev.  xxv,  31).  But,  al- 
though houses  in  open  places  are  thus  treated  like  fields, 
yet,  according  to  the  Rabbinic  definition,  the  reverse  is 
not  to  be  the  case;  i.  e.  fields  or  other  places  not  built 
upon  in  walled  cities  are  not  to  be  treated  as  cities,  but 
come  under  the  jubilee  law  of  fields  (comp.  Erachin,  ix, 
5).  The  houses  of  the  Levites,  in  the  forty-eight,  cities 
given  to  them  (Numb,  xxxv,  1-8),  were  exempt  from 
this  general  law  of  house  property.  Having  the  same 


JUBILEE  1040  JUBILEE 


value  to  the  Levites  as  landed  property  had  to  the  oth-  ' 
er  tribes,  these  houses  were  subject  to  the  jubilee  law 
for  fields,  and  could  at  any  time  be  redeemed  (Lev.  xxv, 
32;  comp .Erachin,  ix,  8),  so  that,  even  if  a Levite  re- 
deemed the  house  which  his  brother  Levite  was  obliged 
to  sell  through  poverty,  the  general  law  of  house  prop- 
erty is  not  to  obtain,  even  among  the  Levites  them- 
selves, but  they  are  obliged  to  treat  each  other  accord- 
ing to  the  law  of  landed  property.  Thus,  for  instance, 
the  house  of  A,  which  he,  out  of  poverty,  was  obliged  to 
sell  to  the  non-Levite  B,  and  was  redeemed  from  him 
by  a Levite  C,  reverts  m the  jubilee  year  from  C to  the 
original  Levitical  proprietor  A.  This  seems  to  be  the 
most  probable  meaning  of  the  enactment  contained  in 
Lev.  xxv,  33,  and  it  does  not  necessitate  us  to  insert 
into  the  text  the  negative  particle  before  biO*1,  as  is 
done  by  the  Vulgate,  Houbigant,  Ewald  (.4  Iterthiimer, 
p.421),  Ivnobel,  etc.,  nor  need  we,  with  Kashi,  Aben-Ezra, 
etc.,  take  bstt  in  the  unnatural  sense  of  buying.  The 
lands  in  the  suburbs  of  their  cities  the  Levites  were  not 
permitted  to  part  with  under  any  condition,  and  there- 
fore these  did  not  come  under  the  law  of  jubilee  (ver. 
34).  The  only  exception  to  this  general  law  were  the 
houses  and  the  fields  consecrated  to  the  Lord,  or  to  the 
support  of  the  sanctuary.  If  these  were  not  redeemed 
before  the  ensuing  jubilee,  instead  of  reverting  to  their 
original  proprietors,  they  at  the  jubilee  became  forever 
the  property  of  the  priests  (Lev.  xxvii,  20,  21).  The 
conditions,  however,  on  which  consecrated  property 
could  be  redeemed  were  as  follows : A house  thus  de- 
voted to  the  Lord  was  valued  by  the  priest,  and  the  do- 
nor who  wished  to  redeem  it  had  to  pay  one  fifth  in  ad- 
dition to  this  fixed  value  (Lev.  xxvii,  14, 15).  A field 
' was  valued  according  to  the  number  of  homers  of  bar- 
ley which  could  be  sown  thereon,  at  the  rate  of  fifty  sil- 
ver shekels  of  the  sanctuary  for  each  homer  for  the 
whole  fifty  years,  deducting  from  it  a proportionate 
amount  for  the  lapse  of  each  year  (Lev.  xxvii,  1G— 18). 
According  to  the  Talmud  the  fiftieth  year  was  not  count- 
ed. Hence,  if  any  one  wished  to  redeem  his  field,  he 
had  to  pay  one  fifth  in  addition  to  the  regular  rate  of  a 
sela  (shekel),  and  a pundium  ( = l-48th  sela)  per  annum 
for  every  homer,  the  surplus  pundium  being  intended  for 
the  forty-ninth  year.  No  one  was  therefore  allowed  to 
sanctify  his  field  during  the  year  which  immediately 
preceded  the  jubilee,  for  he  would  then  have  to  pay  for 
the  whole  forty-nine  years,  because  months  could  not 
be  deducted  from  the  sanctuary,  and  the  jubilee  year  it- 
self was  not  counted  (Mishna,  Erachin,  vii,  1).  If  one 
sanctified  a field  which  he  had  purchased,  i.  e.  not  free- 
hold property,  it  reverted  to  the  original  proprietor  in 
the  year  of  jubilee  (Lev.  xxvii,  22-24). 

3.  Manumission  of  those  Israelites  who  had  become 
Slaves. — This  enactment  is  comprised  in  Lev.  xxv,  39- 
54.  All  Israelites  who  through  poverty  had  sold  them- 
selves as  slaves  to  their  fellow-1  sraelites  or  to  the  for- 
eigners resident  among  them,  and  who,  up  to  the  time 
of  the  jubilee,  had  neither  completed  their  six  years  of 
servitude,  nor  redeemed  themselves,  nor  been  redeemed 
by  their  relatives,  were  to  be  set  free  in  the  jubilee,  to 
return  with  their  children  to  their  family  and  to  the 
patrimony  of  their  fathers.  Great,  difficulty  has  been 
experienced  in  reconciling  the  injunction  here,  that  in 
the  jubilee  all  slaves  are  to  regain  their  freedom,  with 
Exod.  xxv,  G,  where  it  is  enacted  that  those  bondmen 
who  refuse  their  liberty  at  the  expiration  of  the  ap- 
pointed six  years’  servitude,  and  submit  to  the  boring 
of  their  ears,  are  to  be  slaves  forever  (cb~b  112"!). 
Josephus  {Ant.  iv,  8,  28),  the  Mishna  ( Kiduskin , i,  3) 
and  Talmud  (ibid.  14, 15),  Kashi,  Aben-Ezra,  Maimonides 
(Ililchoth  Abadim , iii,  G),  and  most  Jewish  interpreters, 
who  arc  followed  by  Ainsworth,  Bp.  Patrick,  and  other 
Christian  commentators,  take  to  denote  till  the  ju- 
bilee, maintaining  that  the  slaves  who  submitted  to  have 
their  ears  bored  are  included  in  this  general  manumis- 


sion, and  thus  try  to  escape  the  difficulty.  But  against 
this  is  to  be  urged,  that,  1.  The  phrase  Db^b  is 
used  in  Lev.  xxv,  46  for  perpetual  servitude,  which  is 
unaffected  by  the  year  of  jubilee.  2.  The  declaration 
of  the  slave  that  he  will  not  have  his  freedom,  in  Exod. 
xxi,  5,  unquestionably  shows  that  perpetual  slavery  is 
meant.  3.  Servitude  till  the  year  of  jubilee  is  not  at  all 
spoken  of  in  Lev.  xxv,  40-42  as  something  contempti- 
ble, and  therefore  could  not  be  the  punishment  designed 
for  him  who  refused  his  freedom,  especially  if  the  year 
of  jubilee  happened  to  occur  two  or  three  years  after  re- 
fusing his  freedom  ; and  that  it  is  bondage  beyond  that 
time  which  is  characterized  as  real  slavery;  and,  4.  The 
jubilee,  without  any  indication  whatever  from  the  law- 
giver, is  here,  according  to  this  explanation,  made  to 
give  the  slave  the  right  to  take  with  him  the  maid  and 
the  children  who  are  the  property  of  the  master— the 
very  right  which  had  previously  been  denied  to  him. 
Ewald,  therefore  (Alterthumer,  p.  421),  and  others,  con- 
clude that  the  two  enactments  belong  to  different  peri- 
ods, the  manumission  of  slaves  in  the  year  of  jubilee 
having  been  instituted  when  the  law  enjoining  the  lib- 
eration of  slaves  at  the  expiration  of  six  3’ears  had  be- 
come obsolete;  while  Ivnobel  (on  Exod.  xxi,  G)  regards 
this  jubilee  law  and  the  enactments  in  Exod.  xxi,  5,  G 
as  representing  one  of  the  many  contradictions  -which 
exist  between  the  Jehovistic  and  Elohistic  portions  of 
the  Pentateuch.  All  the  difficulties,  however,  disappear 
when  the  jubilee  manumission  enactment  is  regarded 
as  designed  to  supplement  the  law  in  Exod.  xxi,  2-6. 
In  the  latter  case  the  regular  period  of  servitude  is  fixed, 
at  the  expiration  of  which  the  bondman  is  ordinarily 
to  become  free,  whilst  Lev.  xxv,  39-54  institutes  an  ad- 
ditional and  extrciordinai'y  period,  when  those  slaves 
who  had  not  as  yet  completed  their  appointed  six  years 
of  servitude  at  t he  time  of  jubilee,  or  had  not  forfeited 
their  right  of  free  citizenship  by  spontaneously  submit- 
ting to  the  yoke  of  bondage,  and  becoming  slaves  for- 
ever (cb>  1-"),  are  once  in  every  fifty  years  to  ob- 
tain their  freedom.  The  one  enactment  refers  to  the 
freedom  of  each  individual  at  different  days,  weeks, 
months,  and  years,  inasmuch  as  hardly  any  twenty  of 
them  entered  on  their  servitude  at  exactly  the  same 
time,  whilst  the  other  legislates  for  a general  manumis- 
sion, which  is  to  take  place  at  exactly  the  same  time. 
The  enactment  in  Lev.  xxv,  39-54,  therefore,  takes  for 
granted  the  law  in  Exod.  xxi,  2-6,  and  begins  where 
the  latter  ends,  and  does  not  mention  it  because  it  sim- 
ply treats  on  the  influence  of  jubilee  upon  slavery. 

4.  That  there  must  also  have  been  a perfect  remission 
of  debts  in  the  year  of  jubilee  is  self-evident,  for  it  is  im- 
plied in  the  fact  that  all  persons  who  were  in  bondage 
for  debt,  as  well  as  all  the  landed  property  of  debtors, 
were  freely  returned.  Whether  debts  generally,  for 
which  there  were  no  such  pledges,  were  remitted,  is  a 
matter  of  dispute.  Josephus  positively  declares  that 
they  were  (Ant.  xiii,  2,3),  whilst  Maimonides  ( Jobel , x, 
16)  as  positively  denies  it. 

III.  Time  when  the  Jubilee  7vas  celebrated. — Accord- 
ing to  Lev.  xxv,  8-11,  it  is  evident  that  forty-nine  years 
are  to  be  counted,  and  that  at  the  end  thereof  the  fiftieth 
year  is  to  be  celebrated  as  the  jubilee.  Hence  the  ju- 
bilee is  to  follow  immediately  upon  the  sabbatical  year, 
so  that  there  are  to  be  two  successive  fallow  years. 
This  is  also  corroborated  by  verse  21,  where  it  is  prom- 
ised that  the  produce  of  the  sixth  year  shall  suffice  for 
three  years,  i.  e.  forty-nine,  fifty,  and  fifty-one,  or  the 
two  former  years,  which  are  the  sabbatical  year  and  the 
jubilee,  and  the  immediately  following  year,  in  which 
the  ordinary  produce  of  the  preceding  year  would  be 
wanting.  Moreover,  from  the  remark  in  verse  22,  it 
would  appear  that  the  sabbatical  year,  like  the  jubilee, 
began  in  the  autumn,  or  the  month  of  Tisri,  which  com- 
menced the  civil  year,  when  it  was  customary  to  begin 
sowing  for  the  ensuing  year.  At  all  events,  ver.  9 dis- 
tinctly says  that  the  jubilee  is  to  be  proclaimed  by  the 


JUBILEE 


1041 


JUBILEE 


blast  of  the  trumpet  “ on  the  tenth  of  the  seventh  month, 
on  the  day  of  atonement,”  which  is  Tisri.  Sec  Atone- 
ment, Day  of.  The  opinion  that  the  sabbatical  year 
and  the  jubilee  were  distinct,  or  that  there  were  two 
fallow  years , is  also  entertained  by  the  Talmud  (ltosh 
Ha-Shana,  8 b,  9 a),  Philo  (On  the  Decalogue,  xxx), 
Josephus  (l.  c.),'  and  many  other  ancient  writers.  It 
must,  however,  be  borne  in  mind  that,  though  there  was 
to  be  no  sowing,  nor  any  regular  harvest,  during  these 
two  years,  yet  the  Israelites  were  allowed  to  fetch  from 
the  fields  whatever  they  wanted  (Lev.  xxv,  12).  That 
the  fields  did  yield  a crop  in  their  second  fallow  year  is 
most  unquestionably  presupposed  by  the  prophet  Isaiah 
(xxxvii,  30).  Palestine  was,  at  all  events,  not  less  fruit- 
ful than  Albania,  in  which  Strabo  tells  ns  (lib.  xi,  c.  iv, 
sec.  3),  “ The  ground  that  has  been  sowed  once  produces 
in  many  places  two  or  three  crops,  the  fruit  of  which  is 
even  fifty-fold.”  i 

It  must,  however,  be  remarked,  that  many,  from  a very 
early  period  down  to  the  present  day,  have  taken  the 
jubilee  year  to  be  identical  with  the  seventh  sabbatical 
year.  Thus  the  “Book  of  Jubilees ,”  which  dates  prior 
to  the  Christian  ajra  [see  Jubilees,  Book  of],  divides 
the  Biblical  history  from  the  creation  to  the  entrance 
of  the  Israelites  into  Canaan  into  fifty  jubilees  of  forty- 
nine  years  each,  which  shows  that  this  view  of  the  jubi- 
lee must  have  been  pretty  general  in  those  days.  Some 
Rabbins  in  the  Talmud  ( Erachin , 12  b,  with  33  a),  as 
well  as  many  Christian  writers  (Scaliger,  Pctavius,  Ush- 
er, Cunajus,  Calvitius,  Gatterer,  Frank,  Schroder,  Hug, 
Kosenmiiller),  support  the  same  view.  As  to  the  re- 
mark, “ Ye  shall  hallow  the  fiftieth  year ” (vcr.  10),  “ a 
jubilee  shall  that  fiftieth  year  be  unto  you”  (ver.  11),  it 
is  urged  that  this  is  in  accordance  with  a mode  of  speech 
which  is  common  to  all  languages  and  ages.  Thus  we 
call  a week  eight  days,  including  both  Sundays,  and  the 
best  classical  writers  called  an  olympiad  by  the  name  of 
quinquennium,  though  it  only  contained  four  entire 
years.  Moreover,  the  sacred  number  seven,  or  the  sab- 
batic idea , which  underlies  all  the  festivals,  and  connects 
them  all  into  one  chain,  the  last  link  of  which  is  the  ju- 
bilee, corroborates  this  view,  inasmuch  as  we  have,  1. 
A Sabbath  of  days ; 2.  A Sabbath  of  weeks  (the  seventh 
week  after  the  Passover  being  the  Sabbath  week,  as  the 
first  day  of  it  is  the  festival  of  weeks) ; 3.  A Sabbath  of 
months  (inasmuch  as  the  seventh  month  has  both  a festi- 
val and  a fast,  and  with  its  first  day  begins  the  civil 
year) ; 4.  A Sabbath  of  years  (the  seventh  year  is  the  sab- 
batical year) ; and,  5.  A Sabbath  of  Sabbaths,  inasmuch 
as  the  seventh  sabbatical  year  is  the  jubilee.  See  Sab- 
bath. 

IV.  Mode  of  Celebration. — As  the  observance  of  the 
jubilee,  like  that  of  the  sabbatical  year,  was  only  to  be- 
come obligatory  when  the  Israelites  had  taken  posses- 
sion of  the  promised  land,  and  cultivated  the  land  for 
that  period  of  years,  at  the  conclusion  of  which  the  fes- 
tival was  to  be  celebrated,  the  ancient  tradition  pre- 
served in  the  Talmud  seems  to  be  correct,  that  the  first 
sabbatical  year  was  in  the  one-and-twentieth,  and  the 
first  jubilee  in  the  sixty-fourth  year  after  the  Jews  came 
into  Canaan,  for  it  took  them  seven  years  to  conquer  it, 
and  seven  years  more  to  distribute  it  ( Erachin , xii,  6; 
Maimonides,  Jobel,  x,  2).  The  Bible  says  nothing  about 
the  manner  in  which  the  jubilee  is  to  be  celebrated,  ex- 
cept that  it  should  be  proclaimed  by  the  blast  of  a trum- 
pet. See  Trumpet.  As  in  many  other  cases,  the  law- 
giver leaves  the  practical  application  of  this  law,  and 
the  necessarily  complicated  arrangements  connected 
therewith,  to  the  elders  of  Israel.  Now  tradition  tells 
us  that  the  trumpets  used  on  this  occasion,  like  those 
of  the  feast  of  trumpets,  or  new  year,  were  of  rams’ 
horns,  straight,  and  had  their  mouth-piece  covered  with 
gold  (Mishna,  Rash  Ha-Shana,  iii,  2 ; Maimonides,  Jobel. 
x,  11) ; that  every  Israelite  blew  nine  blasts,  so  as  to 
make  the  trumpet  literally  “ sound  throughout  the  land” 
(Lev.  xxv,  9);  and  that  “from  the  feast  of  trumpets,  or 
new  vear  (i.  e.  Tisri  1),  till  the  day  of  atonement  (i,  e, 
IY.-U  u u 


Tisri  10),  the  slaves  were  neither  manumitted  to  Tetum 
to  their  homes  nor  made  use  of  by  their  masters,  but 
ate,  drank,  and  rejoiced,  and  wore  garlands  on  their 
heads ; and  when  the  day  of  atonement  came  the  judges 
blew  the  trumpet,  the  slaves  were  manumitted  to  go  to 
their  homes,  and  the  fields  were  set  free”  (Rosh  Ha- 
Shana,  8 b;  Maimonides,  Jobel,  x,  14).  Though  the 
Jews,  from  the  nature  of  the  case,  cannot  now  celebrate 
the  jubilee,  yet  on  the  evening  of  the  day  of  atonement 
the  conclusion  of  the  fast  is  announced  in  all  the  syna- 
gogues to  the  present  day  by  the  blast  of  the  Shophar 
or  horn,  which,  according  to  the  Rabbins,  is  intended  to 
commemorate  the  ancient  jubilee  proclamation  ( Orach 
Chajim,  cap.  dcxxiii,  sec.  6,  note). 

Because  the  Bible  does  not  record  any  particular  in- 
stance of  the  public  celebration  of  this  festival,  Michaelis, 
Winer,  etc.,  have  questioned  whether  the  law  of  jubilee 
ever  came  into  actual  operation;  while  lvranold,  llup- 
feld,  etc.,  have  positively  denied  it.  The  following  con- 
siderations, however,  speak  for  its  actual  observance:  1. 
All  the  other  Mosaic  festivals  have  been  observed,  and 
it  is  therefore  surpassing  strange  to  suppose  that  the  ju- 
bilee which  is  so  organically  connected  with  them,  and 
is  the  climax  of  all  of  them,  is  the  only  one  that  never 
was  observed.  2.  The  law  about  the  inalienability  of 
landed  property,  which  was  to  be  the  result  of  the  jubi- 
lee, actually  obtained  among  the  Jews,  thus  showing 
that  this  festival  must  have  been  observed.  Hence  it 
was  with  a view  to  observing  the  jubilee  law  that  the 
right  of  an  heiress  to  marry  was  restricted  (Numb, 
xxxvi,  4,  6,  7) ; and  it  was  the  observance  of  this  law, 
forbidding  the  sale  of  laud  in  such  a manner  as  to  pre- 
vent its  reversion  to  the  original  owner  or  his  heir  in 
the  year  of  jubilee,  that  made  Naboth  refuse  to  part 
with  his  vineyard  on  the  solicitation  of  king  Aliab  (1 
Kings  xxi,  1-4).  3.  From  Ezek.  xlvi,  17,  where  even 

the  king  is  reminded  that  if  he  made  a present  of  his 
landed  property  to  any  of  his  servants  it  could  only  be 
to  the  jubilee  year,  when  it  must  revert  to  him,  it  is  ev- 
ident that  the  jubilee  was  observed.  Allusions  to  the 
jubilee  are  also  to  be  found  in  Nell,  v,  1-19 ; Isa.  v,  7,  8, 
9,  10,  lxi,  1,  2;  Ezek.  vii,  12,  13  (Isa.  xxxvii,  30  is  less 
clear).  Ewald  contends  that  the  institution  is  emi- 
nently practical  in  the  character  of  its  details,  and  that 
the  accidental  circumstance  of  no  particular  instance  of 
its  observance  having  been  recorded  in  the  Jewish  his- 
tory proves  nothing.  Besides  the  passages  to  which 
reference  has  been  made,  lie  applies  several  others  to  the 
jubilee.  He  conceives  that  “the  year  of  visitation” 
mentioned  in  Jcr.  xi,  23;  xxiii,  12;  xlviii,  44,  denotes 
the  punishment  of  those  who,  in  the  jubilee,  withheld 
by  tyranny  or  fraud  the  possessions  or  the  liberty  of  the 
poor.  From  Jer.  xxxii,  6-12,  he  infers  that  the  law  was 
restored  to  operation  in  the  reign  of  Josiali  (.1  Iterthumer, 
p.  424,  note  1).  It  is  likely,  however,  that  in  the  gen- 
eral declension  of  religious  observances  under  the  later 
monarehs  of  Judah  this  institution  yielded  to  the  ava- 
rice and  vTorldliuess  of  landed  proprietors,  especially  as 
mortgaged  property  and  servants  would  thereby  be  re- 
leased (see  Jer.  xxxiv,  8-11 ; comp.  Neh.  v).  Indeed, 
it  is  intimated  that  the  Babylonian  captivity  should  be 
of  such  a duration  as  to  compensate  for  the  years  (sab- 
batical and  jubilee  together)  of  which  Jehovah  had  thus 
been  defrauded  (2  Chron.  xxxvi,  21).  4.  The  general 

observance  of  the  jubilee  is  attested  by  the  unanimous 
voice  of  Jewish  tradition.  This  unanimity  of  opinion, 
however,  only  extends  to  the  observance  of  the  jubilee 
prior  to  the  Babylonian  captivity,  for  many  of  the  later 
Rabbins  affirm  tiiat  it  was  not  kept  after  the  captivity. 
But  in  the  Seder  Olam  (cap.  xxx),  the  author  of  which 
lived  shortly  after  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem,  we  are 
positively  assured  that  it  v-as  observed.  Josephus,  too 
(Ant.  iii,  12,  3),  speaks  of  it  as  being  permanently  ob- 
served. This  is,  moreover,  confirmed  by  Diodorus  Sic- 
ulus (lib.  xl),  who  tells  us  that  the  Jews  cannot  dispose 
of  their  own  patrimony  (ISiovg  icXi'ipovg  wuiXtlv),  as 
well  as  by  the  fact  that  we  have  distinct  records  of  the 


JUBILEE 


JUBILEE  1042 


law  respecting  the  redemption  of  houses  in  cities  with- 
out walls,  which  forms  an  integral  part  of  the  jubilee 
law,  being  strictly  observed  to  a very  late  period  {Era- 
chin,  31  b;  Baba  Kama,  82  b). 

y.  Origin,  Design,  and  Importance  of  the  Jubilee.— 
The  foundation  of  the  law  of  jubilee  appears  to  be  so  es- 
sentially connected  with  the  children  of  Israel  that  it 
seems  strange  that  Michael  is  should  have  confidently 
affirmed  its  "Egyptian  origin,  while  yet  he  acknowledges 
that  he  can  produce  no  specific  evidence  on  the  subject 
(,1/cw.  Lax,  art.  73).  The  only  well-proved  instance  of 
anything  like  it  in  other  nations  appears  to  be  that  of 
the  Dalmatians,  mentioned  by  Strabo,  lib.  vii  (p.  315, 
edit.  Casaubon).  He  says  that  they  redistributed  their 
land  every  eight  years."  Ewald,  following  the  state- 
ment of  Plutarch,  refers  to  the  institution  of  Lycnrgus; 
but  Mr.  Grote  has  given  another  view  of  the  matter 
{History  of  Greece,  ii,  530). 

The  object  of  this  institution  was  that  those  of  the 
people  of  God  who,  through  poverty  or  other  adverse 
circumstances,  had  forfeited  their  personal  liberty  or 
property  to  their  fellow7 -citizens,  should  have  their 
debts  forgiven  by  their  co-religionists  even7  half  centu- 
ry, on  the  great  day  of  atonement,  and  be  restored  to 
their  families  and  inheritance  as  freely  and  fully  /is  God 
on  that  very  day  forgave  the  debts  of  his  people  and  re- 
stored them  to  perfect  fellowship  with  himself,  so  that 
the  whole  community,  having  forgiven  each  other  and 
being  forgiven  of  God,  might  return  to  the  original  or- 
der which  had  been  disturbed  in  the  lapse  of  time,  and, 
being  freed  from  the  bondage  of  one  another,  might  mi-  ' 
reservedly  be  the  servants  of  him  who  is  their  redeemer. 
The  aim  of  the  jubilee,  therefore,  is  to  preserve  unim- 
paired the  essential  character  of  the  theocracy,  to  the 
end  that  there  be  no  poor  among  the  people  of  God 
(Deut.  xv,  4).  Hence  God,  who  redeemed  Israel  from 
the  bondage  of  Egypt  to  be  his  peculiar  people,  and  al- 
lotted to  them  the  promised  land,  will  not  suffer  any  1 
one  to  usurp  bis  tills  as  Lord  over  those  whom  he  owns 
as  his  own.  It  is  the  idea  of  grace  for  all  the  suffering 
children  of  man,  bringing  freedom  to  the  captive  and 
rest  to  the  weary  as  w7ell  as  to  the  earth,  which  made 
the  year  of  jubilee  the  symbol  of  the  Messianie  year  of 
grace  (Isa.  lxi,  2),  when  all  the  conflicts  in  the  universe 
should  be  restored  to  their  original  harmony,  and  when 
not  only  we,  who  have  the  first-fruits  of  the  Spirit,  but 
the  whole  creation,  which  groaneth  and  travailctli  in 
pain  together  until  now,  may  be  restored  into  the  glori- 
ous liberty  of  the  sons  of  God  (comp.  Isa.  lxi,  1-3,  Luke 
iv,  21 ; Lorn,  viii,  18-23:  lleb.  iv,  9). 

The  importance  of  this  institution  will  be  apparent 
if  it  is  considered  what  moral  and  social  advantages 
would  accrue  to  the  community  from  the  sacred  observ- 
ance of  it.  1.  It  would  prevent  the  accumulation  of 
land  on  the  part  of  a few7  to  the  detriment  of  the  com- 
munity at  large.  2.  It  would  render  it  impossible  for 
any  one  to  be  bom  to  absolute  poverty,  since  every  one 
had  his  hereditary  land.  3.  It  would  preclude  those  in- 
equalities which  are  produced  hv  extremes  of  riches  and 
poverty,  and  which  make  one  man  domineer  over  an- 
other. 4.  It  would  utterly  do  away  with  slavery.  5. 
It  would  afford  a fresh  opportunity  to  those  who  w7ere 
reduced  by  adverse  circumstances  to  begin  again  their 
career  of  industry,  in  the  patrimony  which  thev  had 
temporarily  forfeited.  0.  It  would  periodically  rectify 
the  disorders  which  crept  into  the  state  in  the  course  of 
time,  preclude  the  division  of  the  people  into  nobles  and 
plebeians,  and  preserve  the  theocracy  inviolate. 

_ ^ L Literature. — T.hc  Mishna  ( Erachin , ch.  viii,  ix) 
gives  very  important  enactments  of  a very  ancient  date 
respecting  the  jubilee.  In  Maimonides  '{Jod  Ila-Che- 
znka,  especially  the  tract  so  often  above  referred  to  as 
Hilchoth  Shemita  1 e-Jobel,  ch.  x-xiii)  an  epitome  will 
be  found  of  the  Jewish  information  on  this  subject 
which  is  scattered  through  the  Talmud  and  Midrashim. 
Of  the  modern  productions  are  to  be  mentioned  the  val- 
uable treatises  of  Cuna-us,  De  Iiep.  Ihbr.  chap,  ii,  see.  iv 


(in  the  Critici  S acri,  ix,  278  sq.),  and  Meyer,  De  Tem - 
por . et  Diebus  Ilebreeorum  (in  Ugolini  Thesaurus,  i,  703, 
1755),  p.  341-.360;  Michaelis,  Commentaries  on  the  Laws 
of  Moses  (Engl,  version,  Lond.  1814),  vol.  i,  art.  lxxxiii, 
p.  37G  sq. ; Ideler,  Handbuch  der  Chronologie  (Berl.  1825), 
i,502  sq;  the  excellent  prize  essays  of  Ivranold,  De  Anno 
llebr.  Jubiheo  (Getting.  1837),  and  Wokle,  De  anno  Hebr. 
Jubilato  (Gottingen,  1837)  ; Biihr,  Syrnbolik  des  Mosa- 
ischen  Cultus  (Heidelberg,  1839),  i,  572  sq. ; Ewald,  Die 
A Iterthiimer  rles  Volkes  Israel  (Gotting.  1854),  p.  415  sq.; 
Saalschiitz,  Das  Mosaische  Recht  (Berlin,  1853),  i,  141, 
etc.;  and  Archaologie  der  Hebraer  (Ivonigsb.  1856),  ii, 
224,  etc.;  Herzfeld,  Geschichte  des  Volkes  Israel  (Nord- 
hausen,  1855),  i,  463,  etc. ; Keil,  Handbuch  der  Biblischeu 
Archaologie  (Frankf.  a.  HI.  1858),  i,  374,  etc.  Ilupfeld 
(Commentutio  de  Ilebrceorum  Festis , part  iii,  1852)  has 
lately  dealt  with  it  in  a wilful  and  reckless  style  of  crit- 
icism. Vitringa  notices  the  prophetical  bearing  of  the 
j ubilee  in  lib.  iv,  c.  4 of  t he  Obserrationes  Sacree.  Light- 
foot  {Harm.  Erang.  in  Luc.  iv,  19)  pursues  the  subject  in 
a fanciful  maimer,  and  makes  out  that  Christ  suffered  in 
a jubilee  year.  For  further  details,  see  Wagcnseil,  De 
anno  Jubiheo  Hebr.  (Altdorf,  1700) ; J.  C.  Buck,  De  anno 
Hebreeor.  jnbileeo  ("Viteb.  1700) ; Carpzov,  De  annojubi- 
leeo  (Lips.  1730 ; also  in  his  Apparut.  crit.  p.  447)  ; Ode, 
De  anno  Heb.  jubilceo  (Traj.  a.  It.  1736;  also  in  Oelricli’s 
Collectio,  ii,  421-508) ; Lauricli,  Legislutio  Mosaicet  de 
anno  semiseculuri  (Altenb.  1794);  also  Marck,  Syllog. 
dissert.  302;  Bauer,  Gottesd.  Verjass.  ii,  277 ; Hnllmann, 
Urgesch.  des  Stoats,  73 ; Van  der  Hardt,  Dejubil.  Mosis 
(Helmstadt.  1728);  Jochanan  Salomo,  De  jubil.  Hebr. 
( Danz.  1679) ; Meier,  De  nn/sterii  Jobelai  (Brcm.  1700)  , 
Reineccius,  De  origine  Jubileeorum  (Weissenfels,  1730) ; 
Stemler,  De  anno  Jobeleeo  (Lips.  1730);  Van  Poorteren, 
Jubilceus  Ilebreeorum  (Cob.  1730)  ; Walt  her,  De  Jnbileeo 
Judieorum  (Sodin.  17G2).  Other  monographs,  relating, 
however,  rather  to  later  times,  are  cited  by  Volbediug, 
Index,  p.  128, 162.  See  Sabbatical  Year. 

JUBILEE,  or  JUBILEE  YEAR,  an  institution  of 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  the  name  of  which  is  bor- 
rowed from  that  of  the  Jewish  jubilee  (see  above).  The 
Catholic  jubilee  is  of  two  kinds,  ordinary  and  extraor- 
dinary. The  ordinary  jubilee  is  that  which  is  celebra- 
ted at  stated  intervals,  the  length  of  which  has  varied 
at  different  times.  Its  origin  is  traced  to  pope  Boniface 
VIII,  who  issued,  for  the  year  1300,  a bull  granting  a 
plenary  indulgence  to  all  pilgrim-visitors  of  Rome  dur- 
ing that  year  on  condition  of  their  penitently  confessing 
their  sins,  and  visiting  the  church  of  St.  Peter  and  St. 
Paul  fifteen  times  if  strangers,  and  thirty  times  if  resi- 
dents of  the  city.  The  invitation  was  accepted  with 
marvellous  enthusiasm.  Innumerable  troops  of  pilgrims 
from  even7  part  of  the  Church  flocked  to  Rome.  Gio- 
j vanni  Villani,  a contemporary  chronicler,  states  that  the 
' constant  number  of  pilgrims  in  Rome,  not  reckoning 
j those  who  were  on  the  road  going  or  returning,  during 
the  entire  year,  never  fell  below  200,0(10.  Boniface, 
finding  the  jubilee  a success,  and  having  been  informed, 
so  the  story  goes,  by  a hoary  patriarch,  who,  at  the  age 
of  107,  attended  it,  that  a hundred  years  ago  a like  ju- 
bilee had  been  held,  now  ordered  that  it  should  there- 
after be  held  even7  hundredth  year.  The  great  gain 
which  the  occasion  afforded  to  the  churches  at  Rome 
induced  Clement  VI  to  abridge  the  time  to  fifty  years. 
Ilisjubilee  accordingly  took  place  in  1350.  and  was  even 
more  numerously  attended  than  that  of  Boniface,  the 
average  number  of  pilgrims,  until  the  heats  of  summer 
suspended  their  frequency,  being,  according  to  Matthew 
Villani,  no  fewer  than  1,000,000!  The  term  of  interval 
was  still  further  abridged  by  Urban  VI;  but  in  the 
stormy  days  of  his  pontificate  the  jubilee  could  not  take 
place,  and  his  successor,  Boniface  IX,  improved  this  to 
his  advantage,  ami  ordered  it  to  take  place  in  1390. 
Ten  years  later  he  repeated  it,  and,  besides,  instituted 
extra  years  of  jubilee,  and  permitted  their  observance 
also  in  foreign  cities  provided  the  worshippers  would 
pay  into  the  Roman  treasury  the  cost  of  a journey  to 


JUBILEES,  BOOK  OF  1043  JUBILEES,  BOOK  OF 


the  holy  city  (comp.  Amort,  De  origin e,  progressu,  va~  ; 
lore  uc  frnctu  indulgent,  i,  87  si].).  I‘aul  IT  Anally  or-  i 
dered  in  1470  that  thenceforward  every  twenty-fifth 
year  should  be  held  as  jubilee,  an  arrangement  which 
has  continued  ever  since  to  regulate  the  ordinary  jubi- 
lee. As  the  indulgences  could,  by  the  payment  of  given 
sums  and  the  contribution  to  ecclesiastical  purposes,  al- 
ways be  obtained  at  the  home  of  the  penitent,  the  pil- 
grimages to  Home  gradually  diminished  in  frequency ; 
but  the  observance  itself  has  been  punctually  maintain- 
ed at  each  recurring  period,  with  the  single  exception 
of  the  year  1800,  in  which,  owing  to  the  vacancy  of  the 
holy  see  and  the  troubles  of  the  times,  it  was  not  held. 
For  the  excesses  committed  in  the  sale  of  indulgences, 
sec  Indulgences.  The  extraordinary  jubilee  is  order- 
ed by  the  pope  out  of  the  regular  period,  either  on  his 
accession,  or  on  some  occasion  of  public  calamity,  or  in 
Some  critical  condition  of  the  fortunes  of  the  Church ; 
one  of  the  conditions  for  obtaining  the  indulgence  in 
such  cases  being  the  recitation  of  certain  stated  prayers 
for  the  particular  necessity  in  which  the  jubilee  orig- 
inated. See  Herzog,  Real-  Bncyklop.  vii,  117 ; Cham- 
bers, s.  v. ; Walcott,  Sac.  Arclmol.  p.  334.  (J.  11.  W.) 

Jubilees,  Book  of.  This  apocryphal  or  Ilagadie 
book,  which  was  used  so  largely  in  the  ancient  Church, 
and  was  still  known  to  the  Byzantines,  but  of  which 
both  the  original  Hebrew  and  the  Greek  were  after- 
wards lost,  has  recently  been  discovered  in  an  Ethiopic 
version  in  Abyssinia. 

I.  Title  of  the  Book,  and  its  Signification. — The  book 

is  called  Tit  Tw/3fj\aia  — "iS5,  “ the  Jubilees," 

or  41  the  book  of  Jubilees ,”  because  it  divides  the  period 
of  the  Biblical  history  upon  which  it  treats,  i.  e.  from 
the  creation  to  the  entrance  of  the  Israelites  into  Ca- 
naan, into  fifty  jubilees  of  forty-nine  years  each,  equal 
to  2450  years,  and  carefully  describes  every  event  ac- 
cording to  the  jubilee,  sabbatical  -year,  or  year  in  which 
it  transpired,  as  stated  in  the  inscription : “ These  are 
the  words  of  the  division  of  the  days  according  to  the 
law  and  the  testimony,  according  to  the  events  of  the  j 
years  in  sabbatical  years  and  in  jubilees,”  etc.  It  is 
also  called  by  the  fathers  ij  Xcurt)  1 'ivtaig,  XiTTruryivi- 
mg,  paepoyivt eng  ; to.  Xstttu  rtidoeiog  = 

X-VT,  i.  e.  the  small  Genesis,  compendium  of  Genesis,  be-  - 
cause  it  only  selects  certain  portions  of  Genesis,  although  ■ 
through  its  lengthy  comments  upon  these  points  it  is 
actually  longer  than  this  canonical  book  (comp.  Epipha- 
nins,  Adc.  liter,  lib.  i,  tom.  iii,  cap.  vi,  edit.  Petav. ; G. 
Synecllus,  p.  8) ; or,  according  to  Ewald’s  rendering  of 
it,  rd  \t7Tru  ( subtilia , minnta)  rivemg,  because  it  di- 
vides the  history  upon  which  it  treats  into  very  minute 
and  small  periods  ( Geschichte  des  Volkes  Israel,  i,  271) ; 
it  is  called  by  St.  Jerome  the  apocryphal  Genesis  (see  be- 
low, sec.  3),  and  it  is  also  styled  i)  too  Mwi'iriwi;  c’nro- 
KaXv^/ig , the  Apocalypse  of  Moses,  by  George  Synecllus 
and  Cedrentis,  because  the  book  pretends  to  be  a revela- 
tion of  God  to  Moses,  and  is  denominated  “ the  book  of 
the  division  of  dags"  by  the  Abyssinian  Church,  from  the 
first  words  of  the  inscription. 

II.  Design  and  Contents  of  the  Book. — This  apocry- 
phal book  is  designed  to  be  a commentary  on  the  ca- 
nonical books  of  Genesis  and  Exodus.  (1)  It  fixes  and 
arranges  more  minutely  the  chronology  of  the  Biblical 
history  from  the  creation  to  the  entrance  of  the  Israel- 
ites into  Canaan ; (2)  Solves  the  various  difficulties  to 
be  found  in  the  narratives  of  these  canonical  books;  (3) 
Describes  more  fully  events  which  are  simply  hinted  at 
in  the  sacred  history  of  that  early  period;  and  (4)  Ex- 
patiates upon  the  religious  observances,  such  as  the 
Sabbath, the  festivals,  circumcision,  sacrifices, lawful  and 
unlawful  meats,  etc.,  setting  forth  their  sacred  charac- 
ter, as  well  as  our  duty  to  keep  them,  by  showing  the 
high  antiquity  of  these  institutions,' inasmuch  as  they 
have  been  sacredly  observed  by  the  patriarchs,  as  may 
be  seen  from  the  following  notice  of  these  four  points. 

a.  In  its  chronological  arrangements  we  find  that  it 


places  the  deluge  in  A.M.  1353  (Jubil.  vi,  Gl),  and  the 
exodus  in  the  year  A.M.  2410  (iv,  10).  This,  with  the 
forty  years’  sojourn  in  the  wilderness,  yields  fifty  jubi- 
lees of  forty-nine  years  each  from  the  creation  to  the 
entrance  into  Canaan,  i.  e.  2450,  and  also  allows  a new 
jubilee  period  to  commence  immediately  upon  the  en- 
tering of  the  Israelites  into  the  Promised  Land.  Though 
in  the  calculations  of  this  period  the  book  of  Jubi- 
lees agrees  in  its  particulars  with  the  Hebrew  text  of 
Genesis  and  Exodus,  yet  it  differs  from  the  canonical 
text  both  as  to  the  time  of  the  sojourn  in  Egypt  and 
the  years  in  which  the  ante  and  post-diluvian  patri- 
archs begat  their  children.  Thus  Jared  is  said  to  have 
lived  62  instead  of  IG2  years  before  Enoch  was  born, 
Methuselah  was  67  instead  of  187  at  the  birth  of  La- 
mceli,  and  Lamech  again  was  53  instead  of  182  when  he 
begat  Noah,  agreeing  partly  with  the  Samaritan  Pen- 
tateuch, and  partly  with  the  Neptuagint  in  their  state- 
ments about  these  antediluvian  patriarchs.  In  the  chro- 
nology of  the  post-diluvian  patriarchs,  however,  the  book 
of  Jubilees  deviates  from  these  versions,  and  says  that 
Arphaxad  begat  Cainan  when  74-75;  after  the  deluge, 
Cainan  begat  Salah  when  57,  Salali  begat  Eber  when 
67,  Eber  begat  Peleg  when  68,  Peleg  begat  Ben  when 
61 ; the  birth  of  Serug  is  omitted,  but  Serug  is  said  to 
have  begat  Nahor  in  the  year  1 16  after  the  birth  of 
Beu,  and  Nahor  begat  Terali  in  bis  62d  year  (compare 
J ubil.  i v,  40,  etc.).  The  going  down  into  Egypt  is  placed 
about  A.M.  2172-2173  (Jubil.  xlv,  1-3), so  tiiat  when  we 
deduct  it  from  2410,  in  which  year  the  exodus  is  placed, 
there  remains  for  the  sojourn  in  Egypt  238  years.  In 
the  description  of  the  lives  of  Noah,  Abraham  (xxiii, 
23),  Isaac  (xxxvi,  49-52),  Jacob  (xlv,  40-43),  and  Jo- 
seph (xlvi,  9-15),  the  chronology  agrees  with  the  He- 
brew text  of  Genesis. 

b.  Of  the  difficulties  in  the  sacred  narrative  which  the 
book  of  Jubilees  tries  to  solve  may  he  mentioned  that 
it  accounts  for  the  serpent  speaking  to  Eve  by  saying 
that  all  animals  spoke  before  the  fall  in  paradise  (eomp. 
Gen.  i,  I with  Jubil.  iii,  98):  explains  very  minutely 
whence  the  first  heads  of  families  took  their  wives  (Ju- 
bil. iv,  24,  71,  100,  ete.);  how  far  the  sentence  of  death 
pronounced  in  Gen.  ii,  17  has  been  fulfilled  literally  (iv, 
99,  etc.);  shows  that  the  sons  of  God  who  came  to  the 
daughters  of  men  were  angels  (v,  3) ; with  what  help 
Noah  brought  the  animals  into  the  ark  (v,  76) ; where- 
with the  tower  of  Babel  was  destroyed  (x,  87);  why 
Sarah  disliked  Ishmacl  and  urged  Abraham  to  send  him 
away  (xvii,  13);  why  Bebeeea  loved  Jacob  so  dearly 
(xix,  40-84) ; how  it  was  that  Esau  came  to  sell  his 
birthright  for  a mess  of  pottage  (xxiv,  5-20) ; who  told 
Bebekah  (Gen.  xxvii,  42)  that  Esau  determined  to  kill 
Jacob  (xxxvii,  1,  etc.) ; how  it  was  that  he  afterwards 
desisted  from  his  determination  to  kill  Jacob  (xxxv, 
29-105);  why  Iiebekah  said  (Gen.  xxvii,  45)  that  she 
would-be  deprived  of  both  her  sons  in  one  day  (xxxvii, 
9) ; why  Er,  Judah’s  first-born,  died  (xli,  1-7) ; why  Onan 
would  not  redeem  Tamar  (xli,  11-13);  why  Judah  was 
not  punished  for  his  sin  with  Tamar  (xli,  57-67) ; why 
Joseph  had  the  money  put  into  the  sacks  of  his  breth- 
ren (xlii,  71-73) ; and  how  Moses  was  nourished  in  the 
ark  (xlvii,  13),  and  that  it  was  not  God,  but  the  cliief- 
mastemah,  Flaw'S,  the  enemy,  who  hardened  the  hearts 
of  the  Egyptians  (xlviii,58). 

c.  Instances  where  events  which  are  briefly  mentioned 
or  simply  hinted  at  in  the  canonical  book  of  Genesis,  and 
which  seem  to  refer  to  another  narrative  of  an  earlier 
or  later  date,  are  given  more  fully  in  the  book  of  Jubi- 
lees, will  be  found  in  Jubil.  xvi,  39-101,  where  an  exten- 
sive description  is  given  of  the  appearance  of  the  angels 
to  Abraham  and  Sarah  as  a supplement  to  Gen.  xviii, 
14;  in  Jubil.  xxxii, 5-38, 50-53,  where  Jacob  is  described 
as  giving  tithes  of  all  his  possessions,  and  wishing  to 
erect  a house  of  God  in  Bethel,  which  is  a fuller  de- 
scription of  that,  hinted  at  in  Gen.  xxviii,  22;  in  Jubil. 
xxxiv,  4-25,  where  Jacob’s  battle  with  the  seven  kings 


JUBILEES,  BOOK  OF 


1044 


JUBILEES,  BOOK  OF 


of  the  Amorites  is  described,  to  which  allusion  is  made 
in  Gen.  xlviii,  22. 

</.  As  to  the  religious  observances,  we  are  told  that 
the  Feast  of  Weeks,  or  Pentecost  (□"’TCSH  C",  in 
r*2“22  "P2“rTj,  is  contained  ill  the  covenants  which 
C.od  made  with  Noah  and  Abraham  (comp.  Jubil.  vi,  56- 
60  with  Gen.  ix,  8-17 ; xiv,  51-54  with  Gen.xv,  18-21) ; 
the  Feast  of  l ube rnacles  was  first  celebrated  by  Abra- 
ham at  Beersheba  (Jubil.  xvi,  <51-101) ; the  concluding 
Festival  ^-w),  which  is  on  the  23d  of  Tisri, 

continuing  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles  [see  Festival], 
was  instituted  by  Jacob  (Jubil.  xxxii,  87-94)  after  his 
vision  at  Bethel  (Gen.  xxxv,  9-14) ; and  that  the  mourn- 
ing on  the  Dag  of  Atonement  if’ZZ  2"1)  was  instituted 
(Lev.  xvi,  29)  to  commemorate  the  mourning  of  Jacob 
over  the  loss  of  Joseph  (Jubil.  xxxiv,  50-60). 

(The  German  version  by  Dillmann,  through  which 
this  book  has  recently  been  made  known  to  Europeans, 
has  been  divided  by  the  erudite  translator  into  fifty 
chapters,  but  not  into  verses.  The  references  in  this 
article  arc  to  those  chapters,  and  the  lines  of  the  respec- 
tive chapters.) 

III.  Author  and  Original  Language  of  the  Book. — 
That  the  author  of  this  book  was  a Jew  is  evident  from, 
(I)  His  minute  description  of  the  Sabbath  and  festi-  , 
vals,  as  well  as  all  the  Habbinic  ceremonies  connected 
therewith  (1. 19-33, 49-00),  which  developed  themselves  J 
in  the  course  of  time,  and  which  we  are  told  are  simply 
types  described  by  Moses  from  heavenly  archetypes, 
and  have  not  only  been  kept  by  the  angels  in  heaven,  j 
but  are  binding  upon  the  Jews  world  without  end ; (2) 
The  elevated  position  he  ascribes  to  the  Jewish  people 
(ii, 79-91 ; xvi,  50-56);  ordinary  Israelites  are  in  digni- 
ty equal  to  angels  (xv,  72-75),  and  the  priests  are  like 
the  presence-angels  (xxxi, 47-49);  over  Israel  only  does 
the  Lord  himself  rule,  whilst  lie  appointed  evil  spirits  to 
exercise  dominion  over  all  other  nations  (xv,  80-90); 
and  (3)  The  many  Ilagadic  elements  of  this  book  which 
are  still  preserved  in  the  Talmud  and  Midrashim.  Com- 
pare, for  instance,  Jubil.  i,  116,  where  the  presen ce-angel, 
2“:SH  “V2,  is  described  as  having  preceded 
the  hosts  of  Israel,  with  Sanhedrim,  38,  b ; the  descrip- 
tion of  the  creation  of  paradise  on  the  thirdday  (Jubil.  ii, 
37  with  Bereshilh  Jlabba,  c.  xv);  the  twenty-two  gen- 
erations from  Adam  to  Jacob  (Jubil.  ii,  64,  91,  with  Be- 
reshi/h  ltabba  and  Midrash  Tadshe,  169) ; the  animals 
speaking  before  the  fall  (Jubil.  iii,  98  with  the  Miil- 
rashim ) ; the  remark  that  Adam  lived  70  years  less  than 
1000  years  in  order  that  the  declaration  might  be  ful- 
filled “ in  the  day  in  which  thou  eatest  thereof  thou  shalt 
die,”  since  1000  years  are  as  one  day  with  the  Lord  (Ju- 
bil. iv,  99  with  Bereshith  Jlabba,  c.  xix ; Justin.  Dial.  c. 
7 ryph.  p.278.  ed.  ( )tto) ; the  causes  of  the  deluge  (Jubil. 
v,  5-20  with  Bereshith  Jlabba,  c.  xxxi) ; the  declaration 
that  the  beginning  of  the  first,  fourth,  seventh,  and  tenth 
months  are  to  be  celebrated  as  festivals,  being  the  be- 
ginning of  the  four  seasons  called  r'Epr,  and  having 
already  been  observed  by  Noah  (Jubil.  vi,  31-95  with 
Firke  It.  I.liezer,  cap.  viii ; Pseudo-Jonathan  on  Gen. 
viii,  22 ) ; the  statement  that  Satan  induced  God  to  ask 
Abraham  to  sacrifice  his  son  (Jubil.  xvii,  49-53  with 
Sanhedrim,  89,  b);  that  Abraham  was  tempted  ten  times 
(Jubil.  xix,  22  with  Mishna,  A both,  v,  3 ; Targnm  Jern- 
salem  on  Gen.  xxii,  l,etc.J;  and  that  Joseph  spoke  He- 
brew when  he  made  himself  known  to  his  brothers  (Ju- 
bil. xliii,  54  with  Bereshith  ltabba,  cap.  xoiii).  As,  liow- 
eycr,  some  of  the  practices,  rites,  and  interpretations 
given  in  this  book  are  at  variance  with  the  traditional 
expositions  of  the  liahbins,  Beer  is  of  opinion  that  the 
nritor  was  a Dosithean  who  was  anxious  to  bring  about 
a fusion  of  Samaritanism  and  Babliinic  -Judaism  bv 
making  mutual  concessions  (Das  Buell  d.  Jnbilaen, p.  fii, 
62);  .)<  llinck,  again,  thinks  that  he  was  an  Fssene,  and 
wrote  this  book  against  the  Pharisees,  who  maintained  I 
that  the  beginning  of  the  month  is  to  be  fixed  by  ob-  I 


servation  and  not  by  calculation  (^3  52  12 

PP^N“in),  and  that  the  Sanhedrim  had  the  power  of  or- 
daining intercalary  years  [see  Hillel  II],  adducing  in 
corroboration  of  this  view  the  remark  in  Jubil.  vi,95- 
133,  the  chronological  system  of  the  author,  which  is 
based  upon  heptades;  and  the  strict  observance  of  the 
Sabbath,  which,  as  an  Essene  loving  the  sacred  number 
seven,  he  urges  upon  every  Israelite  (compare  Jubil.  ii, 
73-135 ; iv,  19-61 ; Beth  Ha-Midrash,  iii,  p.  xi) ; whilst 
Erankel  maintains  that  the  writer  was  an  Egyptian  Jew, 
and  a priest,  at  the  temple  in  Leontopolis,  which  ac- 
counts for  his  setting  such  a high  value  upon  sacrifices, 
and  tracing  the  origin  of  the  festivals  and  sacrifices  to 
the  patriarchs  ( Monatsschrift , v,  p.  396). 

Notwithstanding  the  difference  of  opinion  as  to  which 
phase  of  Judaism  the  author  belonged,  all  agree  that 
this  book  was  written  in  Hebrew,  that  it  was  afterwards 
translated  into  Greek,  anil  that  the  Ethiopic,  of  which 
Dillmann  has  given  a German  version,  was  made  from 
the  Greek.  Many  of  the  expressions  in  the  book  can 
only  be  understood  by  retranslating  them  into  Hebrew. 
Thus,  for  instance,  the  remarks  “und  es  giebt  keine 
Ucbcrgehung”  (Jubil.  vi,  101, 102),  “und  sie  sollcn  kei- 
nen  Tag  nebergehen”  (vi,  107),  become  intelligible  when 
we  hear  in  mind  that  the  original  had  ^*2^2,  interca- 
lation. Moreover,  the  writer  designates  the  wives  of 
the  patriarchs  from  the  family  of  Seth  by  names  which 
express  beauty  and  virtue  in  Hebrew ; Seth  married  Az- 
urali,  m"22,  restraint;  Jared  married  Beraclia,  FC'iD, 
blessing;  Enoch  and  Methuselah  married  wives  of  the 
name  of  Adui,  nH2,  pleasure ; whilst  Cain  married  his 
sister  Avan,  “pSt,  vice  (Jubil.  iv,  24-128).  The  words 
‘iri23'l'3  Gen.  xxii,  16,  are  rendered  in  the  book  of 
Jubil.  (xvii,  42)  bei  meinan  Havpte,  which  is  the  well- 
known  Palestinian  oath  “1250,  'CSI  8-pn  (compare 
Sanhedrim,  2,  3,  ah),  and  which  no  Greek  writer  would 
use,  especially  as  the  Sept,  does  not  have  it  here.  There 
arc  also  other  renderings  which  show  that  the  writer 
had  the  Hebrew  Scriptures  before  him  and  not  the  Sept., 
a fact  which  is  irreconcilable  on  the  supposition  that  he 
was  a Greek  Jew,  or  wrote  in  Greek,  as  he  would  un- 
doubtedly have  used  the  Sc]  t.  Thus,  for  instance,  the 
hook  of  Jubil.  xiv,  9, 10,  has  “ tier  aus  eleinem  Leibe  her- 
vorgelit,”  which  is  a literal  translation  of  the  Hebrew 
“p2T27a  X3P  *112 X,  Gen.  xv,  4 ; otherwise  the  Sept,  og 
i£e\iv(TfTai  Ik  <tou:  Jubil.  xiv,  29  has  “ aber  Abram 
wehrte  sie  ab,”  so  the  Hebrew'  E“EX  CT’X  212^)  (Gen. 
xv,  11),  not  the  Sept,  teat  cvvtKciSiatv  avroifAftpap 
(comp,  also  book  of  Jubil.  xv,  17  with  Sept.  Gen.  xvii,  7 ; 
xv,  43  with  Sept,  xvii,  17 ; xv,  46  with  Sept,  xvii,  19). 
To  these  is  to  be  added  the  testimony  of  St.  Jerome,  w ho 
remarks  upon  “Hoc  verbum,  quantum  memoria 

suggerit,  nusquam  alibi  in  scripturis  sanctis  apud  Hc- 
broeos  invenisse  me  novi,  absque  libro  apocrypho,  qui  a 
Grsecis  ptKpoyivserig  appellatur.  Ibi  in  redificationc  tur- 
ris  pro  stadio  ponitur,  in  quo  excorccntur  pugiles  et  ath- 
letic et  cursorum  velocitas  eomprobatur”  (comp.  In  ej:is- 
tola  ad  Fabiolam  de  mansionibus,] Mansio  xviii  on  Numb, 
xxxiii,  21,  22) ; and  again  (Mansio  xxiv  on  Numb, 
xxxiii,  27,  28),  “Hoc  eodem  voeabulo  (TPr,)  et  iisdera 
literis  scriptum  invenio  patrem  Abraham,  qui  in  supra- 
dicto  apocrypho  Genescos  volumine  abactis  corvis,  qui 
hominum  frumenta  vastabant,  abactoris  vcl  depulsoris 
sortitus  est  nomen;”  as  well  as  the  fact  that  portions  of 
the  book  arc  still  extant  in  Hebrew  (comp.  Jellinek, Beth 
Ha-Midrcish , vol.  iii,  p.  ix,  etc.).  The  agreement  of 
many  passages  with  the  Sept.,  when  the  latter  deviates 
from  the  Hebrew',  is.  as  Dillmann  observes,  to  be  as- 
cribed to  the  translator,  w'ho,  when  rendering  it  into 
Greek,  used  the  Sept.  (Ewald,  Jahrbuch,  iii,  90). 

IV,  Date  and  Importance  of  the  Book. — That  this 
book  w'as  written  before  the  destruction  of  the  Temple 
is  evident  not  only  from  its  description  of  the  sacrifices 


1045 


JUDAEA 


JUBILEES,  BOOK  OF 

and  the  services  performed  therein,  hut  from  its  whole  ' 
complexion,  and  this  is  admitted  by  all  who  have  writ- 
ten on  it.  Its  exact  date,  however,  is  a matter  of  dis- 
pute. Kruger  maintains  that  it  was  written  between 
B.C.  332  and  320;  Dillmann  and  Frankel  think  that  it 
was  written  in  the  first  century  before  Christ ; 'whilst 
Ewald  is  of  opinion  that  it  originated  about  the  birth  of 
Christ.  The  medium  of  the  two  extremes  is  the  most 
probable. 

The  importance  of  this  book  can  hardly  be  overrated 
when  we  remember  that  it  is  one  of  the  very  few  Bibli- 
cal works  which  have  come  down  to  us  written  between 
the  close  of  the  O.-T.  canon  and  the  beginning  of  the 
N.  T.  There  are,  however,  several  other  considerations 
which  render  this  book  a most  important  contribution, 
both  to  the  interpretation  of  the  Bible  and  to  the  history 
of  Jewish  belief  anterior  to  the  Christian  iera.  1.  Many 
portions  of  it  are  literal  translations  of  the  book  of  Gen- 
esis, and  therefore  enable  us  to  see  in  what  state  the 
Hebrew  text  was  at  that  age,  and  furnish  us  with  some 
readings  which  are  preferable  to  those  given  in  the  tex- 
tus  receptus,  e.  g.  Jubil.  xvii,  17  renders  it  probable  that 
the  correct  reading  of  Gen.  xxi,  II  is  122  “IX  bv 
ms,  which  is  corroborated  by  the  verse  imme- 
diately following.  2.  It  shows  us  that  the  Jews  of  that 
age  believed  in  the  survival  of  the  soul  after  the  death 
of  the  body  (xxiii,  115).  though  the  resurrection  of  the 
body  is  nowhere  mentioned  therein ; that  they  believed 
in  the  existence  of  Satan,  the  prince  of  legions  of  evil 
spirits,  respecting  which  so  little  is  said  in  the  O.  Test, 
and  so  much  in  the  New;  and  that  these  evil  spirits 
have  dominion  over  men,  and  are  often  the  cause  of 
their  illnesses  and  death  (x,  35-47;  xlix,  7-10).  3.  It 

shows  us  what  the  Jews  believed  about  the  coming  of 
the  .Messiah,  and  the  great  day  of  judgment  (xxxiii, 
37-1 181.  4.  It  explains  the  statements  in  Acts  vii,  53; 

Gal.  iii,  19;  Heb.  ii,  2,  which  have  caused  so  much  dif- 
ficulty to  interpreters,  by  most  distinctly  declaring  that 
the  law  was  given  through  the  presence-anyel  (i,  99-102). 
5.  It  even  appears  to  be  quoted  in  the  N.  T.  (compare  2 
Pet.  ii,  4;  Jude  6,  with  Jubil.  iv,  76;  v,  3,  20). 

V.  Literature.  — It  has  already  been  remarked  that 
the  Hebrew  original  of  this  book  is  lost.  Chapters 
xxxiv  and  xxxv  are,  however,  preserved  from  M Hr  ash 
Vajisnu,  in  Miilrash  Jalkut  Sabbat,  section  Bereshith , 
cxxxiii,  as  has  been  pointed  out  by  Jellinek  (see  be- 
low); and  Treuenfels  has  shown  parallels  between  other 
parts  oi  the  book  of  Jubilees  and  the  Hagada  and  Mid- 
rash i in  in  the  IAteraturblatt  des  Onents,  1346,  p.  81  sq. 
The  Greek  version  of  this  book,  which  was  made  at  a 
v-ery  early  period  of  the  Christian  a*ra,  as  is  evident 
from  Clement’s  Recoynit.  cap.  xxx-xxxii,  though  Epi- 
phanius  (Adr.  Ihvres.  lib.  i,  cap.  iv,  vi ; lib.  ii;  tom.  ii, 
cap.lxxxiii,  lxxxiv)  and  St.  Jerome  (in  Epistola  ad  Fa-  ] 
biolam  de  mansionibus,  Mansio  xviii  on  Numb,  xxxiii,  I 
21,  22;  Mansio  xxiv  on  Numb,  xxxiii.  27,  28)  are  the 
lirst  who  mention  it  by  name,  was  soon  lost  in  the  ’West- 
ern Church,  but  it  still  existed  in  the  Eastern  Church, 
and  was  copiously  used  in  the  Chronoyraphia  of  Geor- 
gius Nyncellus  and  Georgius  Cedrenus,  and  quoted  sev- 
eral times  by  Joannes  Zanoras  and  Michael  Glycas,  By- 
zantine theologians  and  historians  of  the  11th  and  12th 
centuries  (compare  Fabrieius,  Codex  Pseud.-epiyraph.  1'. 
Test.  p.  851-363 ; Dillmann,  in  Ewald’s  Jahrbuch.  iii,  94 
sq.).  From  that  time,  however,  the  Greek  version  was 
also  lost,  and  the  book  of  Jubilees  was  quite  unknown  to 
Europeans  till  1344,  when  Ewald  announced  in  the  Zeit- 
schrijt  fur  die  Kunde  des  Moryenlandes,  p.  176-179,  that 
Dr.  KraplF  had  found  it  preserved  in  the  Abyssinian 
church  in  an  Ethiopic  translation,  and  brought  over  a 
MS.  copy  which  was  made  over  to  the  Tubingen  Uni- 
versity. This  Ethiopic  version  was  translated  into  Ger- 
man by  Dillmann  in  Ewald’s  Jahrbiicher.  ii,  230-256, 
and  iii,  1-96  (Gottingen,  1849-51),  and  Ewald  at  once 
used  its  contents  for  the  new  edition  of  his  Geschichte  d. 
Volkes  Israel  (vol.  i,  Gotting.  1851,  p.  271 ; vol.  ii,  1853, 


p.  294).  This  was  seasonably  followed  by  Jellinek’s  edi- 
tion of  the  Mulrash  Vajisau , with  an  erudite  preface  in 
Beth  Ha-Midrash,  vol.  iii  (Leipzig,  1855);  next  by  the 
learned  treatises  of  Beer,  Das  Buck  der  Jubilaen  uml 
sein  Yerhiiltniss  zu  den  Midraschim,  1856;  and  Frankel, 
Das  Buch  d.  Jubilaen  (in  the  Monatsschrift  f.  Geschichte 
und  Wissenschaft  des  Judenthums , v,  311-316,  380-400); 
then  by  another  masterly  production  by  Beer,  entitled 
Nock  ein  Wort  iiber  das  Buch  der  Jubilaen  (in  Frankel’s 
I Monatsschrift,  1857);  and  strictures  on  the  works  of  Jel- 
linek, Beer,  and  Frankel,  by  Dillmann,  in  the  Zeitschrift 
der  Deutscken  moryenliindischen  Gesellschaft,  xi  (Leipzig, 
1857),  161  sq.  Kruger,  too,  published  an  article  on  Die 
Chronoloyie  im  Buche  der  Jubilaen,  in  the  Zeitschrift  der 
Deutschen  moryenlandischen  Gesellschaft,  xii  (Lpz.  1858), 
279  sq.,  and  Dillmann  at  last  published  the  Ethiopic  it- 
self (Kiel  and  London,  1859). — Ivitto,  s.  v. 

Ju'cal  (Jer.  xxxviii,  I).  See  Jkhucal. 

Ju'da  (’1  merely  the  Genitive  case  of  '\ovcaq, 
the  Graecized  form  of  Judah),  an  incorrect  Anglicizing 
of  the  name  Judas  or  Judah  in  several  passages  of  the 
Auth.Yers.  See  also  Jude. 

1.  The  patriarch  Judah,  son  of  Jacob  (Susan.  56; 
Luke  iii,  33 ; Heb.  vii,  14  ; Iter,  v,  5;  vii,  5).  For  the 
“city  of  Juda”  (i.  c.  the  tribe  of  Judah),  in  Luke  i,  39, 
see  Juttah. 

2.  The  son  of  Joseph,  and  father  of  Simeon,  in  Christ’s 
maternal  ancestry  (Luke  iii,  30);  probably  the  same 
with  Adaiaii,  the  father  of  Maaseiah,  which  latter  was 
one  of  the  Jewish  centurions  who  aided  Jehoiada  in  re- 
storing Joash  to  the  throne  (2  Chron.  xxiii,  1).  B.C. 
ante  876.  See  Genealogy  of  Christ. 

3.  The  son  of  Joanna,  and  father  of  Joseph  (Luke  iii, 
26),  another  of  Christ’s  maternal  ancestors;  probably 
identical  with  Amen,  the  father  of  Eliakim,  among 
Christ’s  paternal  ancestry  (Matt,  i,  13) ; and  likewise 
with  Obadiaii,  the  son  of  Arnan,  and  father  of  Shecha- 
niah  (I  Chron.  iii,  21).  B.C.  ante  406.  (See  Strong’s 
Harm,  and  Expos,  of  the  Gospels,  p.  16,  17.) 

4.  One  of  the  Lord’s  brethren,  enumerated  in  Mark  vi, 
3.  See  Joses;  Joseph.  On  the  question  of  liis  iden- 
tity with  Jude,  the  brother  of  James,  one  of  the  twelve 
apostles  (Luke  vi,  16;  Acts  i,  13),  and  with  the  author 
of  the  general  epistle,  see  James.  In  Matt.  xiii,55,  his 
name  is  given  more  correctly  in  the  A.  Vers,  as  Judas. 

Juda  (or  Juda)  Leo.  See  Judah  Leo. 

Judas'a  (T  one  a to,  fern.  of 'Ioocmoc,  Jew  or  Jewish, 
sc.  land;  once  in  A.  V.  for  Chald.  Judah , Ezra  v, 

8;  “ Jewry,”  Luke  xxiii,  5;  John  vii,  1),  the  southern- 
most of  the  three  divisions  of  the  Holy  Land.  It  de- 
noted the  kingdom  of  Judah  as  distinguished  from  that 
of  Israel.  See  Judah.  But  after  the  captivity,  as  most 
of  the  exiles  who  returned  belonged  to  the  kingdom  of 
Judah,  the  name  Judaea  (Judah)  was  applied  generally 
to  the  whole  of  Palestine  west  of  the  Jordan  (llag.  i,  1, 
14;-  ii,  2).  Under  the  Womans,  in  the  time  of  Christ, 
Palestine  was  divided  into  Galilee,  Samaria,  and  Jmkea 
(John  iv,  4,  5;  Acts  ix,31),  the  last  including  the  whole 
of  the  southern  part  west  of  the  Jordan.  But  this  divi- 
sion was  only  observed  as  a political  and  local  distinc- 
tion, for  the  sake  of  indicating  the  part  of  the  country, 
just  as  we  use  the  name  of  a county  (Matt,  ii,  1,  5;  iii, 
1 ; iv,  25;  Luke  i,  65)  ; but  when  the  whole  of  Palestine 
was  to  be  indicated  in  a general  way,  the  term  Juda*a 
was  still  employed.  Thus  persons  in  Galilee  and  else- 
where spoke  of  going  to  Judaea  (John  vii,  3;  xi,  7),  to 
distinguish  the  part  of  Palestine  to  which  they  were 
proceeding ; but  when  persons  in  Borne  and  other  places 
spoke  of  Judaea  (Acts  xxviii,  21),  they  used  the  word  as 
a general  denomination  for  ihe  country  of  the  Jews,  or 
Palestine.  Indeed,  the  name  seems  to  have  had  a more 
extensive  application  than  even  to  Palestine  west  of  the 
Jordan.  It  denoted  all  the  dominions  of  Herod  the 
Great,  who  was  called  the  king  of  Judaea  : and  much  of 
these  lay  beyond  the  river  (comp.  Matt,  xix,  1 , Mark 


1046 


JUDAH 


JUDAEA 


x ]■).  After  the  death  of  Herod,  however,  the  Judaea  1 
to  which  his  son  Arelielaus  succeeded  was  only  the 
southern  province  so  called  (Matt,  ii,  22),  which  after- 
wards became  a Homan  produce  dependent  on  Syria 
and  governed  by  procurators,  and  this  was  its  condition 
during  our  Lord’s  ministry  (see  Nohrbor,  Judatu  prorin- 
cia  Jiomanorum , Upsal.  1*22).  It  was  afterwards  for  a 
time  partly  under  the  dominion  of  Ilerod  Agrippa  the 
cider  (Acts  xii,  1-10),  but  on  his  death  it  reverted  to  its 
former  condition  under  the  Romans.  See  Smith’s  Diet, 
of  Class,  Geog.  s.  v. 

It  is  only  Judaea,  in  the  provincial  sense,  that  requires 
our  present  notice,  the  country  at  large  being  described 
in  the  article  Palestine.  In  this  sense,  however,  it 
was  much  more  extensive  than  the  domain  of  the  tribe 
of  Judah,  even  more  so  than  the  kingdom  of  the  same 
name.  There  are  no  materials  for  describing  its  limits 
with  precision,  but  it  included  the  ancient  territories  of 
Judah,  Benjamin,  Dan,  Simeon,  and  part  of  Ephraim. 
It  is,  however,  not  correct  to  describe  Idumaea  as  not 
anciently  belonging  to  Judah.  The  Idumaea  of  later 
times,  or  that  which  belonged  to  Judaea,  was  the  south- 
ern part  of  the  ancient  Judah,  into  which  the  Idumaeans 
had  intruded  during  the  exile,  and  the  annexation  of 
which  to  .Judaea  only  restored  what  had  anciently  be- 
longed to  it. 

The  name  Judaea  occurs  among  the  list  of  nations 
represented  at  the  paschal  outpouring  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
(Acts  ii,  9),  where  some  have  preferred  the  various  read- 
ings India  or  Idummi  (see  Kuinol,  ad  loe.),  and  even 
Junta  (Toi’idai',  Schulthess,  De  charismat.  i,  145),  a 
place  in  Armenia,  with  various  other  conjectural  emen- 
dations (see  Bowyer’s  Conjectures  on  the  X.  T.  ad  loe.), 
all  alike  unnecessary  (see  Ilackett,  Alford,  ad  loe.). 

In  the  Rabbinical  writings,  Jiukea,  as  a division  of 
Palestine,  is  frequently  called  “the  south,”  or  “the  south 
country,”  to  distinguish  it  from  Galilee,  which  was  call- 
ed “ the  north”  (Liglitfoot.  Chorog.  Cent.  xii).  The  dis- 
tinction of  the  tribe  of  Judah  into  “the  Mountain,” 
“the  Plain,”  and  “the  Vale,”  which  we  meet  with  in 
the  < Md  Testament  (Numb.  xiii,30),  was  preserved  un- 
der the  more  extended  denomination  of  Judaea  (for  the 
more  specific  divisions  in  Josh,  xv,  21-G3,  see  Keil’s 
Comment,  ad  loc. ; Schwarz,  Palest,  p.  93-122).  The 
Mountain , or  hill-country  of  Judaea  (Josh,  xxi,  1 1 ; Luke 
i,  39),  was  that  “broad  back  of  mountains,”  as  Lightfoot 
calls  it  ( Chorog . Cent,  xi),  which  fills  the  centre  of  the 
country  from  Hebron  northward  to  beyond  Jerusalem 
(fur  Luke  i,  39,  see  Juttaii).  The  Plain  was  the  low 
country  towards  the  sea-coast,  and  seems  to  have  in- 
cluded not  only  the  broad  plain  which  extends  between 
the  sea  and  the  hill-country,  but  the  lower  parts  of  the 
hilly  region  itself  in  that  direction.  Thus  the  Rab- 
bins allege  that  from  Beth-horon  to  the  sea  is  one  region 
(Talmud  llieros.  Shebiith,  ix,  2).  The  Yale  is  defined 
by  the  Rabbins  as  extending  from  Engedi  to  Jericho 
(Lightfoot,  Panergon , § 2) ; from  which,  and  other  indi- 
cations, it  seems  to  have  included  such  parts  of  the  Ghor, 
or  great  plain  of  the  Jordan,  as  lay  within  the  territory 
of  Judies.  This  appropriation  of  the  terms  is  far  prefer- 
able to  that  of  some  writers,  such  as  Lightfoot,  who  sup- 
pose “the  Plain”  to  be  the  broad  valley  of  the  Jordan, 
and  “the  Valley”  to  be  the  lower  valley  of  the  same 
river.  I hat  which  is  called  the  Wilderness  of  Jndvea 
was  the  wild  and  inhospitable  region  lying  eastward  of 
Jerusalem,  in  the  direction  of  the  Jordan  and  Dead  Sea 
(Isa.  xl,  3 ; Matt,  iii,  1 ; Luke  i,  *0 ; iii,  2-4).  In  the  N. 
1 . only  the  Highlands  anil  the  Desert  of  Juda>a  are  dis- 
tinguished. M e may  have  some  notion  of  the  extent 
northward  which  Juda*a  had  obtained,  from  Josephus 
calling  Jerusalem  the  centre  oCthe  country  (Ho/-,  iii, 
3,  5),  which  is  remarkable,  seeing  that  Jerusalem  was 
originally  in  the  northernmost  border  of  the  tribe  of  Ju- 
dah. In  fact,  he  describes  the  breadth  of  the  country  as 
extending  from  the  Jordan  to  Joppa,  which  shows  that 
this  city  was  in  Judaea.  How  much  further  to  the 
north  the  boundary  lay  we  cannot  know  with  precision, 


as  we  are  unacquainted  with  the  site  of  Annath,  other- 
wise Boreeros,  which  he  says  lay  on  the  boundary-line 
between  Judtea  and  Samaria.  The  mere  fact  that  Jose- 
phus makes  Jerusalem  the  centre  of  the  land  seems  to 
prove  that  the  province  did  not  extend  so  far  to  the 
south  as  the  ancient  kingdom  of  the  same  name.  As 
the  southern  boundary  of  Judaea  -was  also  that  of  the 
whole  country,  it  is  only  necessary  to  remark  that  Jose- 
phus places  the  southern  boundary  of  the  Judaea  of  the 
time  of  Christ  at  a village  called  Jardan,  on  the  confines 
of  Arabia  Petraea.  No  place  of  this  name  has  been 
found,  and  the  indication  is  very  indistinct,  from  the 
fact  that  all  the  country  which  lay  beyond  the  Idumaea 
of  those  times  was  then  called  Arabia.  In  fixing  this 
boundary,  Josephus  regards  Idumaea  as  part  of  Judaea, 
for  he  immediately  after  reckons  that  as  one  of  the 
eleven  districts  into  which  Judaea  was  divided.  Most 
of  these  districts  were  denominated,  like  our  counties, 
from  the  chief  towns.  They  were,  1.  Jerusalem ; 2. 
Gophna;  3.  Acrabatta;  4.  Thumna;  5.  Lydda;  6.  Em. 
maus ; 7.  Pella ; 8.  Idumaia ; 9.  Engaddi ; 10.  Ilerodiumj 
and,  11.  Jericho. 

Judaea  is,  as  the  above  intimations  would  suggest,  a 
country  full  of  hills  and  valleys.  The  hills  are  gener- 
ally separated  from  one  another  by  valleys  and  torrents, 
and  are,  for  the  most  part,  of  moderate  height,  uneven, 
and  seldom  of  any  regular  figure.  The  rock  of  which 
they  are  composed  is  easily  converted  into  soil,  which 
being  arrested  by  the  terraces  when  washed  down  by 
the  rains,  renders  the  hills  cultivable  in  a series  of  long, 
narrow  gardens,  formed  by  these  terraces  from  the  base 
upwards.  In  this  manner  the  hills  were  in  ancient 
times  cultivated  most  industriously,  and  enriched  and 
beautified  with  the  fig-tree,  the  olive-tree, and  the  vine; 
and  it  is  thus  that  the  scanty  cultivation  which  still 
subsists  is  now  carried  on.  But-vhen  the  inhabitants 
were  rooted  out,  and  the  culture  neglected,  the  terraces 
fell  to  decay,  and  the  soil  which  had  been  collected  in 
them  was  washed  down  into  the  valleys,  leaving  only 
the  arid  rock,  naked  and  desolate.  This  is  the  general 
character  of  the  scenery ; but  in  some  parts  the  hills  are 
beautifully  wooded,  and  in  others  the  application  of  the 
ancient  mode  of  cultivation  still  suggests  to  the  travel- 
ler how  rich  the  country  onee  was  and  might  be  again, 
and  how  beautiful  the  prospects  which  it  o tiered.  As, 
however,  much  of  this  w as  the  result  of  cultivation,  the 
country  was  probably  anciently,  as  at  present , naturally 
less  fertile  than  either  Samaria  or  Galilee.  The  present 
difference  is  very  pointedly  remarked  by  different  trav- 
ellers; and  lord  Lindsay  plainly  declares  that  “all  Ju- 
daea, exeept  the  hills  of  Ilebron  and  the  vales  immedi- 
ately about  Jerusalem,  is  barren  and  desolate.  But  the 
prospect  brightens  as  soon  as  you  quit  it,  and  Samaria 
and  Galilee  still  smile  like  the  land  of  promise.”  But 
there  is  a season — after  the  spring  rains,  and  before  the 
summer  heat  has  absorbed  all  the  moisture  left  by  them 
— when  oven  the  desert  is  clothed  with  verdure,  and  at 
that  season  the  valleys  of  Juda?a  present  a refreshingly 
green  appearance.  This  venial  season,  however,  is  of 
short  duration,  and  by  the  beginning  of  May  the  grass 
upon  the  mountains,  and  every  vestige  of  vegetation 
upon  the  lower  grounds,  have  in  general  completely  dis- 
appeared. (.See  Kitto,  Pictorial  11  istory  of  Palestine, 
lntroduct.  p.39,40,  .11 9,  120;  and  the  Travels  of  Nan,  p. 
439;  Roger, p.  182;  Mariti,ii, 3(52;  Lindsay, ii, 70;  Ste- 
phens, ii,  249;  Elliot,  p.  408.  409;  Olin,  ii,  323;  Stanley, 
p.  161, 173.  For  a general  discussion,  see  Reland,  Pa- 
last.  p.3l,  174,  178;  Rosen m uller, Pihl.  Geogr.  11,  ii.  149 ; 
Ritter,  Erdk.  xiv,  81,  1064, 1080,  1088;  xv,  25, 125, 131, 
655 ; xvi,  1 sq.,  21  sq.,  33  sq.,  35  sq.,  509  sq.,  26, 1 14  sq., 
547.) — Kitto.  See  Judah,  Tkibe  of. 

Ju'dah  (Heb.  Yekudah',  PVt'fP,  celebrated;  comp. 
Gen.  xxix,  35 ; xlix,  8 , Cliald.  T“!"P,  Yehud',  Ezra  v,  1 ; 
vii,  14;  Dan.  ii,  25;  v,  13,  vi,  13;  “Judaea,”  Ezra  v,  8; 
“Jewry,”  Dan.  v,  13;  Sept,  and  N. T.  generally  ’l ov?ac 
[as  also  Josephus];  but  comp.  Tourer,  Luke  iii,  26,  30; 


JUDAII 


1047 


JUDAII 


for  Luke  i,  39,  see  Juttaii),  the  name  of  several  per- 
sons, etc.,  in  Scripture.  See  also  Judas;  Jude. 

1.  The  fourth  son  of  Jacob  by  Lcali,  born  B.C.  10 1 G 
(Gen.  xxix,  35),  being  the  last  before  the  temporary 
cessation  in  the  births  of  her  children.  Ilis  whole-broth- 
ers were  Reuben,  Simeon,  and  Levi,  elder  than  himself— 
Issachar  and  Zebulun  younger  (see  xxxv,  23).  The 
name  is  explained  as  having  originated  in  Leah’s  excla- 
mation of  “praise”  at  this  fresh  gift  of  Jehovah— “She 
said,  ‘ Now  will  I praise  (rn;X,  udeh)  Jehovah,’  and  she 
called  his  name  Yehudah”  (xxix,  35).  The  same  play 
is  preserved  in  the  blessing  of  Jacob — “Judah,  thou 
whom  thy  brethren  shall  praise !”  (xlix,  8). 

The  narrative  in  Genesis  brings  this  patriarch  more 
before  the  reader,  and  makes  known  more  of  his  histo- 
ry and  character  than  it  does  in  the  ease  of  any  other 
of  the  twelve  sons  of  Jacob,  with  the  single  exception 
of  Joseph.  It  was  Judah’s  advice  that  the  brethren 
followed  when  they  sold  Joseph  to  the  Ishmaclites  in- 
stead of  taking  his'life.  By  the  light  of  his  subsequent 
actions  we  can  see  that  his  conduct  on  this  occasion 
arose  from  a generous  impulse,  although  the  form  of  the 
question  he  put  to  them  has  been  sometimes  held  to 
suggest  an  interested  motive:  “What  profit  is  it  if  we 
slay  our  brother  and  conceal  his  blood?  Come,  let  ns 
sell  him”  (xxxvii,26,  27).  Though  not  the  first-born, 
he  “prevailed  above  his  brethren”  (l  Chron.  v,  2),  and 
we  find  him  subsequently  taking  a decided  lead  in  all 
the  affairs  of  the  family.  When  a second  visit  to  Egypt 
for  corn  had  become  inevitable,  it  was  Judah  who,  as 
the  mouthpiece  of  the  rest,  headed  the  remonstrance 
against  the  detention  of  Benjamin  by  Jacob,  and  finally 
undertook  to  be  responsible  for  the  safety  of  the  lad 
(Gen.  xliii,  3-10).  When,  through  Joseph’s  artifice,  the 
brothers  were  brought  back  to  the  palace,  he  is  again 
the  leader  and  spokesman  of  the  band.  In  that  thor- 
oughly Oriental  scene  it  is  Judah  who  unhesitatingly 
acknowledges  the  guilt  which  had  never  been  commit- 
ted, throws  himself  on  the  mere}'  of  the  supposed  Egyp- 
tian prince,  offers  himself  as  a slave,  and  makes  that 
wonderful  appeal  to  the  feelings  of  their  disguised  broth- 
er which  renders  it  impossible  for  Joseph  any  longer  to 
conceal  his  secret  (xliv,  14, 16-34).  So,  too,  it  is  Judah 
who  is  sent  before  Jacob  to  smooth  the  way  for  him  in 
the  land  of  Goshen  (xlvi,  28).  This  ascendency  over 
his  brethren  is  reflected  in  the  last  words  addressed  to 
him  by  his  father  - — Thou  whom  thy  brethren  shall 
praise ! thy  father’s  sons  shall  bow  down  before  thee ! 
unto  him  shall  be  the  gathering  of  the  people  (xlix,  8- 
10).  In  the  interesting  traditions  of  the  Koran  and  the 
Midrash  his  figure  stands  out  in  the  same  prominence. 
Before  Joseph  his  wrath  is  mightier  and  his  recognition 
heartier  than  the  rest.  It  is  he  who  hastens  in  advance 
to  bear  to  Jacob  the  fragrant  robe  of  Joseph  (Weil’s  Bib- 
lical Legends,  p.  88-90). 

Not  long  after  the  sale  of  Joseph,  Judah  had  with- 
drawn from  the  paternal  tents,  and  gone  to  reside  at 
Adullam,  in  the  country  which  afterwards  bore  liis 
name.  Here  he  married  a woman  of  Canaau,  called  Shu- 
ali,  and  had  by  her  three  sons.  Er,  Ouan,  ami  Shelah. 
When  the  eldest  of  these  sons  became  of  fit  age,  he  was 
married  to  a woman  named  Tamar,  but  soon  after  died. 
See  Er.  As  he  died  childless,  the  patriarchal  law,  af- 
terwards adopted  into  the  Mosaic  code  (Deut.  xxv,  6), 
required  Judah  to  bestow  upon  the  widow  his  second  son. 
This  he  did ; but  as  Ouan  also  soon  died  childless  [see 
Oxan],  Judah  became  reluctant  to  bestow  his  only  sur- 
viving son  upon  this  woman,  and  put  her  off  with  the 
excuse  that  he  was  not  yet  of  sufficient  age.  Tamar 
accordingly  remained  in  her  father’s  house  at  Adullam. 
She  had  the  usual  passion  of  Eastern  women  for  off- 
spring, and  could  not  endure  the  stigma  of  having  been 
twice  married  without  bearing  children,  while  the  law 
precluded  her  from  contracting  any  alliance  but  that 
which  Judah  withheld  her  from  completing.  Mean- 
while Judah’s  wife  died,  and,  after  the  time  of  mourn- 
ing had  expired,  he  went,  accompanied  by  his  friend 


Hirah,  to  attend  the  shearing  of  his  sheep  at  Timnatli, 
in  the  same  neighborhood.  These  circumstances  sug- 
gested to  Tamar  the  strange  thought  of  connecting 
herself  with  Judah  himself,  under  the  guise  of  a loose 
woman.  Having  waylaid  him  on  the  road  to  Tinmath, 
she  succeeded  in  her  object,  and  when  the  consequences 
began  to  be  manifest  in  the  person  of  Tamar,  Judah  w as 
highly  enraged  at  her  crime,  and,  exercising  the  powers 
which  belonged  to  him  as  the  head  of  the  family  she 
had  dishonored,  he  commanded  her  to  be  brought  forth, 
and  committed  to  the  flames  as  an  adulteress.  But 
when  she  appeared  she  produced  the  ring,  the  bracelet, 
and  the  staff  which  he  had  left  in  pledge  with  her,  and 
put  him  to  confusion  by  declaring  that  they  belonged 
to  the  father  of  her  coming  offspring.  See  Tamar. 
Judah  acknowledged  them  to  be  his,  and  confessed  that 
he  had  been  wrong  in  withholding  Shelah  from  her. 
The  result  of  this  painful  affair  was  the  birth  of  two 
sons,  Zerali  and  Pharez  (B.C.  cir.  1893),  from  whom,  with 
Shelah,  the  tribe  of  Judah  descended.  Pharez  was  the 
ancestor  of  the  line  from  which  David,  the  kings  of  Ju- 
dah, and  Jesus  came  (Gen.  xxxviii;  xlvi,  12;  1 Chron. 
ii,  3-5;  Matt,  i,  3;  Luke  iii,  33).  These  circumstances 
seem  to  have  disgusted  Judah  with  his  residence  in 
towns,  for  we  find  him  ever  afterwards  at  his  father’s 
tents.  His  experience  of  life,  and  the  strength  of  his 
character,  appear  to  have  given  him  much  influence 
with  Jacob;  and  it  was  chiefly  from  confidence  in  him 
that  the  aged  father  at  length  consented  to  allow  Benja- 
min to  go  down  to  Egypt.  That  this  confidence  was 
not  misplaced  has  already  been  shown  [see  Joseph]  ; 
and  there  is  not  in  the  whole  range  of  literature  a finer 
piece  of  true  natural  eloquence  than  that  in  which  Ju- 
dah offers  himself  to  remain  as  a bond-slave  in  the  place 
of  Benjamin,  for  whose  safe  return  he  had  made  himself 
responsible  to  his  father.  The  strong  emotions  which 
it  raised  in  Joseph  disabled  him  from  keeping  up  longer 
the  disguise  he  had  hitherto  maintained,  and  there  are 
few  who  have  read  it  without  being,  like  him,  moved 
even  to  tears  (xliv,  14-34).  B.C.  1874.  See  Jacob. 

We  hear  nothing  more  of  Judah  till  he  received, 
along  with  his  brothers,  the  final  blessing  of  his  father, 
which  was  conveyed  in  lofty  language,  glancing  far  into 
futurity,  and  strongly  indicative  of  the  high  destinies 
which  awaited  the  tribe  that  was  to  descend  from  him 
(Gen.  xlix,  8-12).  B.C.  1856. — Ivitto;  Smith.  See  Shi- 
loh. 

JUDAH,  TRIBE  and  Territory  of.  I.  Historical 
Memoranda. — 1.  Judah’s  sons  were  five.  Of  these,  three 
were  by  liis  Canaanitisli  wife  Bath-shna;  they  are  all 
insignificant ; two  died  early,  and  the  third,  Shelah,  does 
not  come  prominently  forward  either  in  his  person  or 
his  family.  The  other  two,  Pliarez  and  Zerah— twins 
— were  illegitimate  sons  bv  the  widow  of  Er,  the  eldest 
of  the  former  family.  As  is  not  unfrequently  the  case, 
the  illegitimate  sons  surpassed  the  legitimate,  and  from 
Pharez,  the  elder,  were  descended  the  royal  and  other 
illustrious  families  of  Judah.  These  sons  were  bom  to 
Judah  while  he  was  living  in  the  same  district  of  Pales- 
tine, which,  centuries  after,  was  repossessed  by  his  de- 
scendants— amongst  villages  which  retain  their  names 
unaltered  in  the  catalogues  of  the  time  of  the  conquest. 
The  three  sons  went  with  their  father  into  Egypt  at 
the  time  of  the  final  removal  thither  (Gen.  xlvi,  12; 
Exod.  i,  2).  See  Jacob. 

2.  When  we  again  meet  with  the  families  of  Judah 
they  occupy  a position  among  the  tribes  similar  to  that 
which  their  progenitor  had  taken  amongst  the  patri- 
archs. At  the  time  that  the  Israelites  quitted  Egypt,  it 
already  exhibited  the  elements  of  its  future  distinction 
in  a larger  population  than  any  of  the  other  tribes  pos- 
sessed (Numb,  i,  26,  27).  It  numbered  74,000  adult 
males,  being  nearly  12,000  more  than  Dan.  the  next  in 
point  of  numbers,  and  34,100  more  than  Ephraim,  which 
in  the  end  contested  with  it  the  superiority  among  the 
tribes.  During  the  sojourn  in  the  wilderness,  Judah 
neither  gained,  like  some  tribes,  nor  lost  like  others. 


1048 


JUDAH 


JUDAII 


Its  numbers  had  increased  to  76,500,  being  12,100  more 
than  Issachar,  which  had  become  next  to  it  in  popula- 
tion (Numb,  xxvi,  22).  The  chief  of  the  tribe  at  the 
former  census  was  Nahshon,  the  son  of  Amminadab 
(Numb,  i,  7 ; ii,  B ; vii,  12;  x,  14),  an  ancestor  of  David 
(ihitli  iv*  20).  Its  representative  amongst  the  spies, 
and  also  amongst  those  appointed  to  parti i ion  the  land, 
was  the  great  Caleb,  the  son  of  Jephunneh  (Numb,  xiii, 
6;  xxxiv,  19).  During  the  march  through  the  desert 
Judah's  place  was  in  the  van  of  the  host,  on  the  east 
side  of  the  tabernacle,  with  his  kinsmen  Issachar  and 
Zebulun  (ii,  3-9;  x,  14).  The  traditional  standard  of 
the  tribe  was  a lion’s  whelp,  with  the  words,  Rise  up, 
Lord,  and  let  thine  enemies  be  scattered!  (Targ.  Pseu- 
dojon.  on  Numb,  ii,  3.) 

3.  During  the  conquest  of  the  country  the  only  inci- 
dents specially  affecting  the  tribe  of  Judah  are,  (1)  the 
misbehavior  of  Aclian,  who  was  of  the  great  house  of 
Zerah  (Josh,  vii,  1, 16-18);  and  (2)  the  conquest  of  the 
mountain-district  of  Hebron  by  Caleb,  and  of  the  strong 
city  Debir,  in  the  same  locality,  by  his  nephew  and  son- 
in-law  Ot lintel  (Josh,  xiv,  6-15;  xv,  13-19).  It  is  the 
only  instance  given  of  a portion  of  the  country  being 
expressly  reserved  for  the  person  or  persons  who  .con- 
quered it.  In  general  the  conquest  seems  to  have  been 
made  by  the  whole  community,  and  the  territory  allot- 
ted afterwards,  without  reference  to  the  original  con- 
querors of  each  locality.  In  this  case  the  high  charac- 
ter and  position  of  Caleb,  and  perhaps  a claim  estab- 
lished by  him  at  the  time  of  the  visit,  of  the  spies  to 
‘•the  land  whereon  his  feet  had  trodden”  (Josh,  xiv,  9; 
comp.  Numb,  xiv,  24),  may  have  led  to  the  exception. 

4.  The  history  of  the  Judges  contains  fewer  facts  re- 
specting this  important  tribe  than  might  be  expected. 

1 1 seems,  however,  to  have  been  usually  considered  that 
the  birthright  which  Reuben  forfeited  had  passed  to  Ju- 
dah under  the  blessing  of  Jacob;  and  a sanction  was 
given  to  this  impression  when,  after  the  death  of  Josh- 
ua, the  divine  oracle  nominated  Judah  to  take  prece- 
dence of  the  other  tribes  in  the  war  against  the  C’anaan- 
ites  (Judg.  i,  2).  It  does  not  appear  that  any  tribe  was 
disposed  to  dispute  the  superior  claim  of  Judah  on  its 
own  account  except  Ephraim,  although  in  doing  this 
Ephraim  had  the  support  of  other  tribes.  Ephraim  ap- 
pears to  have  rested  its  claims  to  the  leadership  of  the 
tribes  upon  the  ground  that  the  house  of  Joseph,  whose 
interest  it  represented,  had  received  the  birthright,  or 
double  portion  of  the  eldest,  by  the  adoption  of  the  two 
sons  of  Joseph,  who  became  the  founders  of  hro  tribes 
in  Israel.  The  existence  of  the  sacerdotal  establish- 
ment at  Shiloh,  in  Ephraim,  was  doubtless  also  alleged 
by  the  tribe  as  a ground  of  superiority  over  Judah. 
When,  therefore,  Judah  assumed  the  sceptre  in  the  per- 
son of  David,  and  when  the  sacerdotal  establishment 
was  removed  to  Jerusalem,  Ephraim  could  not  brook  the 
eclipse  it  had  sustained,  and  took  the  lirst  opportunity 
of  erecting  a separate  throne,  and  forming  separate  es- 
tablishments for  worship  and  sacrifice.  Perhaps  the 
separation  of  the  kingdoms  may  thus  be  traced  to  the 
rivalry  of  Judah  and  Ephraim.  After  that  separation 
the  rivalry  was  between  the  two  kingdoms,  but  it  was 
still  popularly  considered  as  representing  the  ancient 
rivalry  of  these  great  tribes;  for  the  prophet,  in  foretel- 
ling the  repose  of  a coming  time,  describes  it  by  saying, 
“The  envy  also  of  Ephraim  shall  depart, and  the  adver- 
saries of  Judah  shall  lie  cut  off:  Ephraim  shall  not  envy 
Judah,  and  Judah  shall  not  vex  Ephraim”  ( Isa.  xiii,  12). 

hen  the  kingdom  was  divided  under  Kelioboam  and 
Jeroboam,  the  history  of  Judah  as  a tribe  lapsed  into 
that  ol  Judah  as  a kingdom.  Sec  Judah,  kingdom  of. 

II.  Geographical  Data.— In  the  first  distribution  of 
lands,  the  tribe  of  Judah  received  the  southernmost  part 
of  Palestine  to  the  extent  of  fully  one  third  of  the  whole 
country  west  of  the  Jordan,  which  was  to  be  distributed 
among  the  nine  and  a half  tribes  for  which  provision 
was  to  be.  made  (Josh.  xv).  This  oversight  was  dis- 
covered and  rectified  at  the  time  of  the  second  distribu- 


tion, which  was  founded  on  an  actual  survey  of  the 
country,  when  Simeon  received  an  allotment  out  of  the 
territory  which  had  before  been  wholly  assigned  to  Ju- 
dah (Josh,  xix,  9).  See  Simeon.  That  which  remain- 
ed was  still  very  large,  and  more  proportioned  to  the 
future  greatness  than  the  actual  wants  of  the  tribe.  We 
now  also  know,  through  the  researches  of  recent  trav- 
ellers, that  the  extent  of  good  land  belonging  to  this 
tribe,  southward,  was  much  greater  than  had  usually 
been  supposed,  much  of  that  which  had  been  laid  down 
in  maps  as  mere  desert  being  actually  composed  of  ex- 
cellent pasture-land,  and  in  part  of  arable  soil,  still  ex- 
hibiting some  traces  of  ancient  cultivation.  Dan  de- 
fended the  western  border  against  the  inroads  of  the 
Philistines  with  a brave  and  well-trained  band  of  sol- 
diers, having  established,  as  it  seems,  a permanent 
camp  on  the  commanding  height  between  Zorah  and 
Eshtaol  (Judg.  xiii,  25;  xvi,  31 ; xviii,  12;  see  Dan). 
Simeon  bore  the  brmit  of  all  attacks  and  forays  made 
on  the  southern  border  by  the  tribes  of  the  great  “Wil- 
derness of  Wandering;”  and  when  the  Edomites  at- 
tempted to  penetrate  Judah,  Simeon  could  always  check 
them  by  an  attack  upon  their  flank.  When  Judah  be- 
came a kingdom,  the  original  extent  of  territory  assign- 
ed to  the  tribe  was  more  than  restored  or  compensated, 
for  it  must  have  embraced  the  domains  of  Simeon,  and 
probably  also  of  Dan,  and  we  know  that  Benjamin  was 
likewise  included  in  it.  See  I shake,  kingdom  of. 

The  boundaries  and  contents  of  the  territory  allotted 
to  Judah  are  narrated  at  great  length,  and  with  greater 
minuteness  than  the  others,  in  Josh,  xv,  20-63.  This 
may  be  due  either  to  the  fact  that  the  lists  were  reduced 
to  their  present  form  at  a later  period,  when  the  monar- 
chy resided  with  Judah,  and  when  more  care  would 
naturally  be  bestowed  on  them  than  on  those  of  any 
other  tribe,  or  to  the  fact  that  the  territory  was  more 
important  and  more  thickly  covered  with  towns  and 
villages  than  any  other  part  of  Palestine.  The  greater 
' prominence  given  to  the  genealogies  of  Judah  in  1 
Citron,  ii,  iii,  iv,  no  doubt  arises  from  the  former  reason. 

I The  towns  are  also  specifically  named,  not  only  under 
the  general  divisions,  but  even  in  detailed  groups.  (See 
| below.)  The  north  boundary  — coincident  with  the 
| south  boundary  of  Benjamin— began  at  the  embouchure 
j of  the  Jordan,  entered  the  hills  apparently  at,  or  about 
j the  present  road  from  Jericho,  ran  westward  to  en-Slie- 
mesh — probably  the  present  Ain-Hand,  below  Bethany 
I — thence  over  the  Mount  of  Olives  to  Enrogel,  in  the 
; valley  beneath  Jerusalem;  went  along  the  ravine  of 
| Ilinnom,  under  the  precipices  of  the  city,  climbed  the 
hill  in  a north-west  direction  to  the  water  of  Nephtoah 
(probably  Lifta),  and  thence  by  Kirjath-jcarim  (proba- 
bly Kurict  el-Enab),  Bctlishemesli  (Ain-Shcms),  Tim- 
natb,  and  Ekron  to  Jabnecl  on  the  sea-coast.  On  the 
east  the  Dead  Sea,  and  on  the  west  the  Mediterranean, 
formed  the  boundaries.  The  southern  line  is  hard  ro 
determine,  sinee  it  is  denoted  by  places  many  of  which 
have  not  been  identified.  It  lift  the  Dead  Sea  at  its 
extreme  south  end,  and  joined  the  Mediterranean  at  the 
wady  el-Arish ; but  between  these  two  points  it  passed 
through  Maaleh  Aerabbim,  the. Wilderness  of  Zin,  Hez- 
ron,  Adar,  Karkaa,  and  Azmon ; the  Wilderness  of  Zin 
the  extreme  south  of  all  (Josh,  xv,  1-12).  The  coun- 
try thus  defined  was  sixtv-five  miles  long,  and  averaged 
about  fifty  in  breadth.  But  while  this  large  tract  wras 
nominally  allotted  to  Judah,  the  portion  of  it  available 
for  actual  settlement  was  comparatively  small,  not 
amounting  to  one  third  of  the  whole.  From  it  must 
also  be  deducted  a large  section,  stretching  entirely 
across  from  the  Mediterranean  to  the  Dead  .Sea,  being 
the  part  set  off  to  the  tribe  of  Simeon.  The  actual  ter- 
ritory of  Judaea  therefore  extended,  on  an  average,  only 
about  twenty-five  miles  from  north  to  south,  by  about 
forty  from  east  to  west.  See  Tribe.  The  whole  of  the 
above  extensive  region  was  from  a very  early  date  di- 
vided into  four  main  regions. 

1.  The  South — the  undulating  pasture  country  which. 


JUDAII 


1049 


JUDAH 


intervened  between  the  hills,  the  proper  possession  of 
the  tribe,  and  the  deserts  which  encompass  the  lower 
part  of  Palestine  (Josh,  xv,  21).  It  is  this  which  is 
once  designated  as  the  wilderness  (midbar)  of  Judah 
(Judg.  i,  1G).  It.  contained  twenty- nine  cities,  with 
their  dependent  villages  (Josh,  xv,  20-32),  which,. with 
Ether  and  Ashan  in  the  mountains,  were  ceded  to  Sim- 
eon (xix,  1-9).  Amongst  these  southern  cities  the  most 
familiar  name  is  Beersheba.  These  southern  pasture- 
lands  were  the  favorite  camping-grounds  of  the  old  pa- 
triarchs, as  they  still  are  of  those  nomad  tribes  that  fre- 
quent the  southern  border  of  Palestine.  See  Simeon. 

2.  The  Lowland  (xv,  33 ; A.  V.  “ valley”) —or,  to  give  it 
its  own  proper  and  constant  appellation,  the  Shephelah 
— the  broad  belt  or  strip  lying  between  the  central  high- 
lands— “the  mountain” — and  the  Mediterranean  Sea; 
the  lower  portion  of  that  maritime  plain  which  extends 
through  the  whole  of  the  sea-board  of  Palestine,  from 
Sidon  in  the  north  to  Khinoeolura  at  the  south.  This 
tract  was  the  garden  and  the  granary  of  the  tribe.  In 
it,  long  before  the  conquest  of  the  country  by  Israel,  the 
Philistines  had  settled  themselves,  never  to  be  com- 
pletely dislodged  (Neh.  xiii,  23,  24).  There,  planted  at 
equal  intervals  along  the  level  coast,  were  their  five 
chief  cities,  each  with  its  circle  of  smaller  dependents, 
overlooking,  from  the  natural  undulations  of  the  ground, 
the  “standing  corn,”  “shocks,”  “ vineyards  and  olives,” 
which  excited  the  ingenuity  of  Samson,  and  are  still  no- 
ticeable to  modern  travellers.  “They  are  all  remark- 
able for  the  beauty  and  profusion  of  the  gardens  which 
surround  them — the  scarlet  blossoms  of  the  pomegran- 
ates, the  enormous  oranges  which  gild  the  green  foliage 
of  their  famous  groves”  (Stanley,  Syr.  and  Pal.  p.  257). 
From  the  edge  of  the  sandy  tract,  which  fringes  the  im- 
mediate shore  right  up  to  the  very  wall  of  the  hills  of 
Judah,  stretches  the  immense  plain  of  corn-fields.  In 
those  rich  harvests  lies  the  explanation  of  the  constant 
contests  between  Israel  and  the  Philistines  (Syr.  and 
Pal.  p.  258).  From  them  were  gathered  the  enormous 
cargoes  of  wheat  which  were  transmitted  to  Phoenicia 
by  Solomon  in  exchange  for  the  arts  of  Hiram,  and 
which  in  the  time  of  the  Herods  still  “ nourished”  the 
country  of  Tyre  and  Sidon  (Acts  xii,  20).  There  were 
the  olive-trees,  the  sycamore-trees,  and  the  treasures  of 
oil,  the  care  of  which  was  sufficient  to  task  the  energies 
of  two  of  David’s  special  officers  (1  Chron.  xxvii,  28). 
The  nature  of  this  locality  would  seem  to  be  reflected  in 
the  names  of  many  of  its  towns  if  interpreted  as  Hebrew 
words:  Dilean  =eueumbers ; Gederah,  Gederoth,  Gede- 
rothaim,  sheep-folds ; Zoreali,  wasps ; Ex-gannim,  spring 
of  gardens,  etc.  But  we  have  yet  to  learn  how  far  these 
names  are  Hebrew,  and  whether  at  best  they  are  but 
mere  Hebrew  accommodations  of  earlier  originals,  and 
therefore  not  to  be  depended  on  for  their  significations. 
The  number  of  cities  in  this  district,  without  counting 
the  smaller  villages  connected  with  them,  was  forty-two. 
Of  these,  however,  many  which  belonged  to  the  Philis- 
tines can  only  have  been  allotted  to  the  tribe,  and,  if 
taken  possession  of  by  Judah,  were  only  held  for  a time. 
What  were  the  exact  boundaries  of  the  Shephelah  we 
do  not  know.  We  are  at  present  ignorant  of  the  princi- 
ples on  which  the  ancient  Jews  drew  their  boundaries 
between  one  territory  and  another.  One  thing  only  is 
almost  certain,  that  they  were  not  determined  by  the 
natural  features  of  the  ground,  or  else  we  should  not  find 
cities  enumerated  as  in  the  lowland  plain  whose  mod- 
ern representatives  are  found  deep  in  the  mountains. 
►See  Jakmutii  ; Jipiitaii,  etc.  (The  latest  information 
regarding  this  district  is  contained  in  Tobler’s  Bride 
Wanderuny,  1859.) 

3.  The  third  region  of  the  tribe — the  .1  fountain,  the 
“ hill-country  of  Judah” — though  not  the  richest,  was,  if 
not  the  largest,  yet  the  most  important  of  the  four.  Be- 
ginning considerably  below  Hebron,  it  stretches  north- 
ward to  Jerusalem,  eastward  to  the  Dead  Sea  slopes, 
and  westward  to  the  Shefelah,  and  forms  an  elevated 
district  or  plateau,  which,  though  thrown  into  consider- 


able undulations,  yet  preserves  a general  level  in  both 
directions.  It  is  the  southern  portion  of  that  elevated 
hilly  district  of  Palestine  which  stretches  north  until 
intersected  by  the  plain  of  Esdraelon,  and  on  wliieh  He- 
bron, Jerusalem,  and  Shechem  are  the  chief  spots.  Oil 
every  side  the  approaches  to  it  were  difficult,  and  the 
passes  easily  defended.  The  towns  and  villages,  too, 
were  generally  perched  on  the  tops  of  hills  or  on  rocky 
slopes.  The  resources  of  the  soil  were  great.  The 
country  was  rich  in  com,  wine,  oil,  and  fruits;  and  the 
daring  shepherds  were  able  to  lead  their  flocks  far  out 
over  the  neighboring  plains  and  through  the  mountains. 
The  surface  of  this  region,  which  is  of  limestone,  is  mo- 
notonous enough.  Hound  swelling  hills  and  hollows, 
of  somewhat  bolder  proportions  than  those  immediately 
north  of  Jerusalem,  which,  though  in  early  times  prob- 
ably covered  with  forests  [see  IIaretii],  have  now, 
where  not  cultivated,  no  growth  larger  than  a brush- 
wood of  dwarf-oak,  arbutus,  and  other  bushes.  In  many 
places  there  is  a good  soft  turf,  discoverable  even  in  the 
autumn,  and  in  spring  the  hills  are  covered  with  flow- 
ers. The  number  of  towns  enumerated  (Josh,  xv,  48- 
GO)  as  belonging  to  this  district  is  thirty-eight,  but,  if 
we  may  judge  from  the  ruins  which  meet  the  eye  on 
every  side,  this  must  have  been  very  far  below  the  real 
number.  Hardly  a hill  which  is  not  crowned  by  some 
fragments  of  stone  buildings  more  or  less  considerable, 
those  which  are  still  inhabited  surrounded  by  groves 
of  olive-trees,  and  inclosures  of  stone  walls  protecting 
the  vineyards.  Streams  there  are  none,  but  wells  and 
springs  are  frequent  — in  the  neighborhood  of  “Solo- 
mon’s Pools"  at  Urtas  most  abundant  ones. 

4.  The  fourth  district  is  the  Wilderness  (Midbar, 
which  here  and  there  only  appears  to  be  synonymous 
with  Arabah),  the  sunken  district  immediately  adjoin- 
ing the  Dead  Sea  (Josh,  xv,  G),  averaging  ten  miles  in 
breadth,  a wild,  barren,  uninhabitable  region,  fit  only 
to  afford  scanty  pasturage  for  sheep  and  goats,  and  a 
secure  home  for  leopards,  bears,  wild  goats,  and  outlaws 
(l  Sam.  xvii,  34 ; Mark  i,  13 ; l Sam.  xxii.  I sq.).  Dif- 
ferent sections  of  it  were  called  by  different  names,  as 
“ Wilderness  of  Engedi”  (1  Sam.  xxiv,  1) ; “ Wilderness 
of  Judah”  (Judg.  i,  IG),  “ Wilderness  of  Maon”  (1  Sam. 
xxiii,  24 ; see  art.  Desert).  It  was  the  training-ground 
of  the  shepherd-warriors  of  Israel,  “where  David  and 
his  mighty  men”  were  braced  and  trained  for  those  feats 
of  daring  courage  which  so  highly  distinguished  them. 
See  Bethlehem;  David.  It  contained  only  six  cities, 
which  must  have  been  either,  like  Engedi,  on  the  edge 
of  the  cliffs  overhanging  the  sea,  or  else  on  the  higher 
slopes  of  the  basin.  The  “city  of  Salt”  may  have  been 
on  the  salt  plains,  between  the  sea  and  the  cliffs  which 
form  the  southern  termination  to  the  Ghor. 

Nine  of  the  cities  of  Judah  were  allotted  to  the  priests 
(Josh,  xxi,  9-19).  The  Levites  had  no  cities  in  the 
tribe,  and  the  priests  had  none  out  of  it. — Kitto;  Smith. 

The  following  is  a tabulated  view  of  these  subdivisions 
of  the  tribe,  with  the  cities  in  each  group,  as  laid  down 
in  Josh,  xv,  21-G3: 

I.  “The  South”  (-^il),  or  Simeonitish  portion. 

1.  Ivabzeel.  17  and  IS.  Bealoth  or  Balah 

2.  Eder.  (Ramath  - Nekeb),  and 

3.  Jagur.  B i zj  o t h - j ah  - Baal  ah 

4.  Kiuah.  (Baalath-beer  or  Lehi). 

5 Dimonah.  19.  Iim. 

6.  Adadnh.  20.  Azem. 

7.  Kedesh  (Kadesh-Barnea).  21.  Eltolad. 

8.  Hazor.  22.  Chesil  or  Bethnl. 

U and  in.  Ithnan-Ziph  or  23.  Ziklag. 

Zephath,  and  Hormah  24.  Madmannah  or  Beth- 

(Ilazor-addah).  marcaboth. 

11.  Telem'.  25.  Sansanuah  or  Ilazor-su- 

12.  Shema  or  Sheba  (Hazor-  sah. 

shnnl).  26.  Lebaoth  orBeth-lebaoth. 

13.  Moladah.  27.  Shilhim  or  Shamha. 

14.  Heshmon  or  Azmon.  2S  and  29.  Ain-Rimmon  or 

15.  Beth-palet.  En-rimraon. 

16.  Beersheba. 

The  villages  (1.)  Hazor-hadattah  and  (2.)  Kerioth-hez- 
ron,  or  Hazor-amam,  both  belonged  to  Hazor  proper ; 
(3.)  Ilazor-gaddah  to  Hazor-shual. 


JUDAII 


1050 


JUDAH 


Also  [1.]  Ether  and  [2.]  Ashan  out  of  the  “plain”  sub- 
division. 

II.  “The  Valley”  (fiPE'irt),  or  Plain. 

a.  First  group— N.W.  corner. 

1. Eslitnol.  9.  Adullam. 

2.  Zorenta.  10.  Socoh. 

3.  Ashna.  H.  Azekah. 

4.  Zauoah.  12.  Sharaira. 

5.  En-gannim.  13-  Adithanu. 

6 Tappuah.  14.  Gederah  and  Gedero- 

7.  Euam.  thaim. 

S.  Jnrmuth. 

b.  Second  group— south  of  the  above,  in  the  west  part 
of  the  tribe. 

1.  Zenau.  10.  Cabbou, 

2.  Hadashah.  11.  Lalimara. 

3.  Migdal-gad.  12.  Kithlish. 

J-HiS  13.Gederc.tl.  ) ’ “P"' 

it  Joktlieel  I too  1 copulative  14  Betb-clngonf  t“  ]>e 

7.  Lachieh  j between.]  15.  Naamah. 

8.  Bozkath.  16.  Makkedah. 

9.  Eglon. 

e.  Third  group— E.  of  group  b and  S.  of  group  a;  in  the 
middle  of  (he  tribe,  E.  of  the  road  from  Eleutheropo- 
lis  to  Jerusalem. 

1.  Libnah.  6.  Nezib. 

(2.)  Ether.  7.  Keilah. 

(3.)  Ashan.  8.  Achzib. 

4.  Jiphtah.  9.  Mareshah. 

5.  Ashuah. 

d.  Fourth  group— Philistine  peutarchy,  on  the  Mediter- 
ranean shore. 

1.  Ekron  (really  in  Dan).  3.  Gaza. 

2.  Ashdod. 

etc.  (Ashkelon,  aud  Gath  [the  last=Mizpeh,  really  in  the 
“valley”]). 

III.  “The  Mountains”  or  Highland . 

a.  First  group  — along  the  border  of  Simeon,  in  the 
middle. 


1.  Shamir. 

2.  Jattir. 

3.  Socoh.  v 

4.  Dan  nab. 

B.  Kirjath-sannah=Debir. 
6.  Aiiah. 


7.  Eshteraoh. 

8.  Anim. 

9.  Goshen. 

10.  Ilolon. 

11.  Giloh. 


b.  Second  group— N.  of  group  a , in  the  southern  part  of 
the  tribe,  around  Hebron. 

1.  Arab.  G.-Aphekah. 

2.  Duinah.  7.  ITumtah. 

3.  Eshean.  8.  Kirjath-arba=IIebron. 

4.  Jan u m.  9.  Zior. 

5.  Beth-tappuah. 

e.  Third  group — E.  of  group  b. 


1. Maon  )[no  “1  copulative  6.  Jokdeam. 

2.  Oaroiel  j between]  s' S'0"  l 1 


3.  Ziph. 

4.  Juttah. 

5.  Jezreel. 


s.o,i„  lCn.°  ’ 

9.  Gibeah  J tive between.] 
10.  Timnah. 


d.  Fourth  group— N.  of  groups  b aud  e,  to  Jerusalem  on 
the  N.  boundary. 

1.  nalhul  ) [no  1 copulative  Maarath 

2.  Beth-zur . i, , 5-  Beth-anoth. 

3.  Gedor.  bct^een^  6.  Eltekon. 

e.  Fifth  group— in  the  N.  medial  angle,  between  group  d 
and  the  “Valley”  district. 

1 . Kirjath-baal=Kirjath-jearim. 

2.  Kabbah  (?  merely  a title  of  Jerusalem). 

[/.  Group  added  in  the  Scptuagint  between  d and  e — 
situated  N.  of  group  r,  up  to  Jerusalem  — probably 
should  be  added  to  c.j 

0 , 7.  Sores  (Theliez)  Tin  Ben- 

2.  Kplirathah=:Betlilehem.  jamin]  [spurious]. 

3.  Phngor.  8.  Karem  (?  Beth-hacce- 

1 Bbun.  vem], 

5.  Knlon[in  Beujamiu]  [prob.  9.  Galliin  [in  Benjamin]. 

spurious].  io.  Bother  [Thether]. 

C.  Tntam.  ii.  Menukah. 

IV.  “The  Wilderness”  (“SH’SH),  or  Desert. 


I.Beth-arabah)  [no  ^ _ S.Secacah. 

[really  inf  j1  4.  Nibshan. 

Benjamin]  C J-'tive  he-  5 D-ham-M 


Melach. 

;edi. 


2.  Mid dfii ])  tween.] 

Supplementary— Jehus. 

1 he  following  table  comprises  all  the  scriptural  local- 
ities in  Judah  (except  those  in  Jerusalem),  with  their 
probable  or  ascertained  identifications. 


Aceldama. 

Achor. 


Field. 

Valley. 


See  Jerusalem. 
Wady  Dahr t 


Achzib. 

Adi  thaim. 

Adoraim. 

Adullam. 

Adummim. 

An  ah. 

Anim. 

Aphekah. 

Aphrah. 

Arab. 

Ashdod. 

Ashkelon. 

Ashnah. 

Ashnah  (Josh,  xv,  43). 
Azekah  (Josh,  xv,  33). 
Azotns. 

Azzah. 

Baalah  orBaale. 
Baalah. 

Beer. 

Berachah. 

Bethanoth. 

Bethany. 

Beth-dagon. 

Bethel. 

Bether. 

Beth-ezel. 

Beth-gader. 

Beth-haccercm. 

Beth-le-Aphrah. 

Beth-lehem. 

Bethphage. 

Beth-tappuah. 

Beth-znr. 

Bezek. 

Bilhah. 

Bozkath. 

Cabbon. 

Caiu. 

Carmel. 

Chesalon. 

Chezib. 

Da  n n ah. 

Debir  (Josh,  xv,  49). 
Debir  (Josh,  xv,  7). 
Dileoil. 

Di  learn. 

Dimonah. 

I Dumah. 

Eheu-Bohan. 

Edar. 

I Eglon. 

Elah. 

Eltekon. 

Eiicgm. 

1 En-gannim. 

, En-gedi. 

| Ephes-dammin. 
Ephrath  or  Ephrata. 
Eshcol. 

| Eshean. 

| Eshtemoa. 

Etam. 

Gath, 
j Gaza. 

Geder. 

Gederah. 

■ Gederoth. 

| Gederothaim. 

Gedor. 

Gibeah. 

Gilon. 

Goshen. 

Goshen. 

ITachilah. 

Hadashah. 

Halhnl. 

Ilareth. 

Hazezon-tamar. 

Hebron. 

Ilepher. 

Ilolon. 

Humtah. 

Ir-nahash. 

Jabez. 

Jannm. 

Jarmuth. 

Jattir. 

Jehus. 

Jehovah-j’ireh. 

Jeruel. 

Jerusalem. 

Jeshimou. 

Jeshua. 

Jezreel. 

Jiphtah. 

Jokdeam. 

Joktheel. 


Town. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

Mount. 

Town. 

Valley. 

Town. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

Mount. 

Town. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

Village. 

Town. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

Stone. 

Tower. 

Town. 

Valley. 

Town. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

Field. 

Town. 

Valley. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

Town. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

District. 

Hill. 

Town. 

do. 

Forest. 

Town. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

Altar. 

Desert. 

City. 

Desert. 

Towu. 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 


See  Ciiezib. 

[Mohcisin']  ? 

Dura. 

[El-Kheishnm]  ? 
Kulat-ed-Dem. 

A nah . 

Ghmcein. 

[Sibta ] ? 

See  BETii-LE-ApnRAn. 
lEl-Hadb]  i 
Esdud. 

A skulan. 

[Beit- A lam]  ? 

Weir  Abdiq  ? 

Alibek. 

See  Ashdod. 

See  Gaza. 

See  KiRJATU-JEARlM. 

[ Tell  Hermes ] ? 

[Deir  Dubban]  ? 

Wady  Berakut. 

Beit- Amin. 
El-Azariyeh. 

[ Beit-Jerja ] ? 

See  Bethel. 

Bittir  ? 

[ Beit-Daras ] ? 

See  Gedeu. 

Jebel  Fureidis  ? 

[ Beit-Afa ] ? 

Beit-Leihm. 

[S.  top  of  Jebel  -et 
Tur ] ? 

Taffuh. 

Beit-Sur . 

[E.  of  Nukhalin]?? 

See  Baalah. 

[Tell  He$sy~\  ? 

[ El-Kvfeir}  ? 

Vitkin. 

Kurmul. 

Kisla. 

[Ruins  with  wells  on 
W.  Stir]  ? 

[ Ed-Dhokeniyeh ] ? 
Khurbet  ed-Dilbeh  ? 
[N.E.  ofWady  Dabor]  ? 
See  Dimonau. 

Tina. 

Ed-Dhcib. 

Daumeh. 

[N.  side  of  W.  Dahr]  f 
[S.  of  Bethlehem]  ? 
Ajlan. 

Wady  es-Sumt. 
[Bcit-Sahur]  ? 

[Deir  el-Butm ] ? 

[AYaie]  ? 

A in-Jidy. 

See  Elah, 

See  Betlledem. 

A in-Eskali. 

Khursa  ? 

Semua. 

Urtus  t 

Tell  es-Safieht 
Ghuzzeli. 

See  Gedor. 

Gheterah. 

[Beit-Tima']  ? 

See  Gederau. 

Jedur. 

[Erf much]  ? 

[Bn fat?] 

[Deir  Shems]  ? 

[S.  of  Kirjath-jearim]  ? 
[Tell  Ziph ]. 

El-Jorah. 

IlaUivl. 

See  Arebotii. 

See  Engi'dt. 

El-Khulil. 

[Fm-Burj]  ? 
[Beit-Amra]  ? 

[Sabzin  el- A Imeh ] ? 

Deir  Xekhaz » 

See  Kirjatii-jearim. 

[ lias  Jabreh]  ? 

Yarmud. 

A ttir. 

S.  part  of  Jerusalem. 
See  Moriall 
[S.E.  orMinea]? 
El-Khuds. 

See  Jcdaii  (Desert  of)« 
Yeshua. 
r Zurtnl ] ? 

[ Jimrin ] ? 

[ Ed-Dar]  ? 

[BaZi«]  ? 


JUDAH 


1051 


JUDAH 


Jordan. 

(River. 

Sheriat  el-Kebir. 

Migdal-gad. 

Town. 

El-Mejel. 

(Plain. 

El-Ghor. 

Mizpeh." 

do. 

See  Gath. 

(Mts. 

Middle  ridge. 

Moresheth-gath. 

do. 

Mar  Hanneh. 

J udjea. 

< Desert. 

E.  plain. 

Naaniah. 

do. 

[Xeamah.] 

(Valley. 

Sea-shore. 

Nephtoah. 

Spring. 

Ain  Yalo? 

Juttah. 

Town. 

Yutta. 

Netophab. 

Nezib. 

Town. 

Beit  Xetif. 

Keilah. 

do. 

Kila. 

do. 

Beit  Xvsib. 

Kerioth. 

do. 

Kureitein. 

Nibshan. 

do. 

[ Kasr  el- Telman]  ? 

Kirjath-jearim 

do. 

Kurjjat  el-Enab? 

Rabbah. 

do. 

See  Jerusalem. 

Kiijath-arba  or  Kir-1 
jath-Baal. 

Kirjath-sannah  or  t 

\ do. 

- do. 

See  Hebron. 

See  Debir. 

Rachel’s  Tomb. 
Ramah  or  Rama-  t 
thaim-zophim.  j 

Sepulchre.  N.  of  Bethlehem. 

- Town.  Rameh. 

Kirjath-sepher.  j 

Salt  City. 

do. 

Khulat  vm-Baghck  f 

Kithlisk. 

do. 

[ Jelameh ] ? 

Saphir. 

do. 

Es-Sawafir  ? 

Lachish. 

do. 

Um-Lakhis. 

Secacah. 

do. 

[Kaxr  A ntar]  ? 

Lahniam. 

do. 

[ Beit-Lehia ] ? 

Sela-hammalekoth. 

Rock. 

See  At aon. 

Libnah. 

do. 

A rah  el-Menshiyeh  ? 

Shaaraim  or  Sharaim. 

Town. 

Shahrach  t 

Maarath. 

do. 

[Merxia]  ? 

Shamir. 

do. 

[Simia]  ? 

Macpelah. 

Cave. 

See  Hebron. 

Shocho  (Josh,  xv,  4S). 

do. 

Shmeeikeh. 

Makkedah. 

Town. 

Sumeil  I 

Siddim. 

Vale. 

S.  end  of  Dead  Sea? 

Mamre. 

Field. 

See  Hebron. 

Sirah. 

Well. 

\ Sam  rah]  ? 

Maon. 

Town. 

Tell  Main. 

Socoh  or  Shocoh. 

Town. 

Shvmeikch. 

Mareshah. 

do. 

Tell  Merash. 

Sorek. 

Valley. 

Wadi)  Sinmn  ? 

Mekonah. 

do. 

[Jerash]  ? 

Tappnah. 

Tekoah. 

Town.  . 

Beit  A tab? 

Middin. 

do. 

[Khan  Mardeh]  ? 

do.  . 

Tekua. 

1052 


JUDAH 


JUDAII 


Timnah. 

Zaanau.  , . v 

Zauoah  (in  the  plain). 
Zanoah  (in  the  hills). 
Zeuau. 

Zephathah. 

Ziklag. 

Zior. 

Ziph. 

Ziz. 


Town. 

do. 


do. 

do. 


do. 

Valley. 

Town. 

do. 

do. 

Cliff. 


Zuph.  District. 


[Um  el-Amad ] ? 

See  Zenan. 

Zannah. 

Zanutah? 

[Jenin]  ? 

Wady  S.  ofMaresb? 
[Musrefa]  ? 

Hair. 

Zif. 

Precipice  W.  of  Ain 
Jidy? 

See  Ramatiiaim  Zo- 

1M1IM. 


JUDAH,  Kingdom  of.  When  the  territory  of  all 
the  rest  of  Israel,  except  Judah  and  Benjamin,  was  lost 
to  the  kingdom  of  Rehoboam,  a special  single  name  was 
needed  to  denote  that  which  remained  to  him ; and  al- 
most of  necessity  the  word  Judah  received  an  extended 
meaning,  according  to  which  it  comprised  not  Benjamin 
only,  but  the  priests  and  Levitcs,  who  were  ejected  in 
great  numbers  from  Israel,  and  rallied  round  the  house 
of  David.  At  a still  later  time,  when  the  nationality 
of  the  ten  tribes  had  been  dissolved,  and  every  practical 
distinction  between  the  ten  and  the  two  had  vanished 
during  the  captivity,  the  scattered  body  had  no  visible 
head,  except  in  Jerusalem,  winch  had  been  rcoccupied 
mostly  by  a portion  of  Judah's  exiles.  See  Captivity. 
In  consequence,  the  name  Judah  (or  Jew)  attached  it- 
self to  the  entire  nation  from  about  the  epoch  of  the 
restoration.  Sec  Jew.  But  in  this  article  Judah  is 
understood  of  the  people  over  which  David’s  successors 
reigned,  from  Rehoboam  to  Zcdekiah.  Our  statements 
are  chiefly  taken  from  Smith’s  Diet,  of  the  Bible,  s.  v. 

I.  Extent  of  the  Kingdom—  When  the  disruption  of 
Solomon’s  kingdom  took  place  at  Shechem,  only  the 
tribe  of  Judah  followed  the  house  of  David.  But  al- 
most immediately  afterwards,  when  Rehoboam  conceiv- 
ed the  design  of  establishing  his  authority  over  Israel 
by  force  of  arms,  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  also  is  recorded 
as  obeying  his  summons,  and  contributing  its  warriors 
to  make  up  his  army.  Jerusalem,  situate  within  the 
borders  of  Benjamin  (Josh,  xviii,  28,  etc.),  yet  won  from 
the  heathen  by7  a prince  of  Judah,  connected  the  fron- 
tiers of  the  two  tribes  by  an  indissoluble  political  bond. 
By  the  erection  of  the  city  of  David,  Benjamin’s  former 
adherence  to  Israel  (2  Sam.  ii,  0)  was  cancelled,  though 
at  least  two  Benjamite  towns,  Bethel  and  Jericho,  were 
included  in  the  northern  kingdom.  A part,  if  not  all, 
of  the  territory  of  Simeon  (1  Sam.  xxvii.  6;  1 Kings 
xix,  3 : comp.  Josh,  xix,  1)  and  of  Dan  (2  C'hron.  xi,  10: 
comp.  Josli.  xix,  41,  42)  was  recognised  as  belonging  to 
Judah,  and  in  thy  reigns  of  Abijah  and  Asa  t he  south- 
ern kingdom  was  enlarged  by  some  additions  taken  out 
of  the  territory  of  Ephraim  (2  Chron.  xiii,  19:  xv,  8; 
xvii,  2).  After  the  conquest  and  deportation  of  Israel 
by  Assyria,  the  influence,  anti  perhaps  the  delegated  ju- 
risdiction of  the  king  of  Judah,  sometimes  extended 
over  the  territory  which  formerly  belonged  to  Israel. 
See  Jrn.E.v. 


It.  Population. — A singular  gauge  of  the  growth  of 
the  kingdom  of  Judah  is  supplied  by  the  progressive 
augmentation  of  the  army  under  successive  kings.  In 
David’s  time  (2  Sam.  xxiv,  9,  and  1 Chron.  xxi,  5)  the 
warriors  of  Judah  numbered  at  least  500,000.  But  Re- 
hoboam brought  into  the  field  (1  Kings  xii,  21)  only 
180,000  men  ; Abijah,  eighteen  years  afterwards,  400,000 
(2  Chron.  xiii.  3) ; Asa  (2  Chron.  xiv,  8),  his  successor, 
580,000,  exactly  equal  to  the  sum  of  the  armies  of  his 
two  predecessors;  Jehosliaphat  (2  Chron.  xvii,  14-19), 
the  next  king,  numbered  his  warriors  in  five  armies,  the 
aggregate  of  which  is  1,160,000,  exactly  double  the 
army  of  his  father,  and  exactly  equal  to  the  sum  of  the 
armies  of  his  three  predecessors.  After  four  inglorious 
reigns,  the  energetic  Amaziah  could  muster  only  300,000 
men  when  he  set  out  to  recover  Edom.  Ills  son  Uzziah 
had  a standing  (2  Chron.  xxvi,  11)  force  of  307,500 
lighting  men.  It  would  be  out  of  place  here  to  discuss 
the  question  which  has  been  raised  as  to  the  accuracy 
of  these  numbers.  See  NF.ur.KU,  So  far  as  they  are 
authentic,  it  may  be  safely  reckoned  that  the  popula- 


tion subject  to  each  king  was  about  four  times  the  num- 
ber of  the  fighting  men  in  his  dominions.  See  Israel. 

KINGDOM  OF. 

III.  Resources. — Unless  Judah  had  some  other  means 
of  acquiring  wealth  besides  pasture  and  tillage — as  by 
maritime  commerce  from  the  Red  Sea  ports,  or  (less 
probably7)  from  Joppa,  or  by  keeping  up  the  old  trade 
(1  Kings  x,  28)  with  Egypt — it  seems  difficult  to  ac- 
count for  that  ability  to  accumulate  wealth  which  sup- 
plied the  Temple  treasury  with  sufficient  store  to  invite 
so  frequently  the  hand  of  the  spoiler.  Egypt,  Damascus, 
Samaria,  Nineveh,  and  Babylon  had  each  in  succession 
a share  of  the  pillage.  The  treasury  was  emptied  by 
Sliishak  (1  Kings  xiv,  26).  again  by  Asa  (1  Kings  xv, 
18),  by  Jehoash  of  Judah  (2  Kings  xii,  18),  by  Jehoash 
of  Israel  (2  Kings  xiv,  14),  by  Ahaz  (2  Kings  xvi,  8), 
by  Hczekiah  (2  Kings  xviii,  15),  and  by  Nebuchadnez- 
zar (2  Kings  xxiv,  13). 

IV.  Advantages  of  Position. — In  Edom  a vassal-king 
probably  retained  his  fidelity  to  the  son  of  Solomon, 
and  guarded  for  ,1  ewish  enterprise  the  road  to  the  mari- 
time trade  with  Ophir.  Philistia  maintained,  for  the 
most  part,  a quiet  independence.  Syria,  in  the  height 
of  her  brief  power,  pushed  her  conquests  along  the 
northern  and  eastern  frontiers  of  Judah,  and  threatened 
Jerusalem;  but  the  interposition  of  the  territory7  of  Is- 
rael generally  relieved  Judah  from  any  immediate  con- 
tact with  that  dangerous  neighbor.  The  southern  bor- 
der of  Judah,  resting  on  the  uninhabited  desert,  was  not 
agitated  by  any  turbulent  stream  of  commercial  activity 
like  that  which  flowed  by  the  rear  of  Israel,  from  Da- 
mascus to  Tyre.  Though  some  of  the  Egyptian  kings 
were  ambitious,  that  ancient  kingdom  was  far  less  ag- 
gresive  as  a neighbor  to  Judah  than  Assyria  was  to  Is- 
rael. 

The  kingdom  of  Judah  thus  possessed  many  advan- 
tages which  secured  for  it  a longer  continuance  than 
that  of  Israel.  A frontier  less  exposed  to  powerful  ene- 
mies, a soil  less  fertile,  a population  hardier  and  more 
united,  a fixed  and  venerated  centre  of  administration 
and  religion,  a hereditary  aristocracy7  in  the  sacerdotal 
caste,  an  army  always  subordinate,  a succession  of  kings 
which  no  revolution  interrupted,  many  of  whom  were 
wise  and  good,  and  strove  successfully  to  promote  the 
moral  ami  spiritual  as  well  as  the  material  prosperity  of 
their  people;  still  more  than  these,  the  devotion  of  the 
i people  to  the  One  True  God,  which,  if  not  always  a pure 
I and  elevated  sentiment,  was  y7et  a contrast  to  such  de- 
votion as  could  be  inspired  by7  the  worship  of  the  calves 
j or  of  Baal ; and,  lastly,  the  popular  reverence  for  and 
j obedience  to  the  divine  law  so  far  as  they  learned  it 
from  their  teachers — to  these  and  other  secondary7  causes 
I is  to  be  attributed  the  fact  that  Judah  survived  her 
more  populous  and  more  powerful  sister  kingdom  by 
j 135  years,  and  lasted  from  B.C.  975  to  R.C.  586.  (See 
I Bernhardy,  De  causis  quibus  eject  uni  sit  quod  ngnuni 
! Judee  (liuiius  persisteret  quam  regn.  Israel , in  the  A nnal. 

' Acad.  Groning.  1822-23,  p.  124  sq.  ; also  Lovan.  1824; 

| Schmeidler,  Dcr  Untergang  il.  Reich s Judo,  Brcsl.  1831.) 

V.  History. — For  the  circumstances  that  led  to  the 
! schism,  and  for  a comparison  with  the  history  of  the 

rival  kingdom,  see  Israel,  kingdom  of.  For  a further 
| examination  of  the  many  chronological  difficulties  aris- 
I ing  from  the  double  list  of  kings,  see  Chronology. 
The  annals  of  the  kingdom  will  be  found  detailed  under 
the  name  of  the  several  kings,  and  a general  view  un- 
der the  articles  Jerusalem,  and  Palestine.  (See 
White,  Kings  of  Judah  and  Israel , Lond.  1863 ; Ilcsscy, 
Biographies  of  Kings  of  Judah,  Lond.  1865;  Hess,  Ge~ 
schichte  der  Kbnige  Juda  und  Israel , Zurich,  1787 ; also 
Gesch.  der  Regenten  Juda  nach  deni  Exit,  ib.  1788.)  It 
will  be  sufficient,  as  a resume , here  to  notice  the  fact 
that  the  kingdom  of  Judah,  in  the  course  of  its  history7, 
acted  upon  three  different  lines  of  policy  in  succession. 

1.  A nimosity  against  the.  rival  Kingdom  of  Israel. — 
The  lirst  three  kings  of  Judah  seem  to  have  cherished 
the  hope  of  re-establishing  their  authority  over  the  Ten 


JUDAH 


1053 


JUDAII 


Tribes;  for  sixty  years  there  was  war  between  them 
and  the  kings  of  Israel.  Neither  the  disbanding  of  Ke- 
hoboam’s  forces  by  the  authority  of  Shemaiah,  nor  the 
pillage  of  Jerusalem  by  the  irresistible  Sliishak,  served 
to  put  an  end  to  the  fraternal  hostility.  The  victory 
achieved  by  the  daring  Abijah  brought  to  Judah  a tem- 
porary accession  of  territory.  Asa  appears  to  have  en- 
larged it  still  further,  and  to  have  given  so  powerful  a 
stimulus  to  the  migration  of  religious  Israelites  to  Jeru- 
salem that  Baasha  was  induced  to  fortify  Kamali  with 
a view  to  checking  the  movement.  Asa  provided  for 
the  safety  of  his  subjects  from  invaders  by  building, 
like  Behoboam,  several  fenced  cities;  he  repelled  an 
alarming  irruption  of  an  Ethiopian  horde,  he  hired  the 
armed  intervention  of  Benliadad  I,  king  of  Damascus, 
against  Baasha;  and  he  discouraged  idolatry  and  en- 
forced the  worship  of  the  true  God  by  severe  penal  laws. 
(See  Junge,  Bella  inter  Judam  et  Israel.  Titb.  17 1G.) 

2.  Resistance  (generally  in  Alliance  u'ith  Israel)  to 
Damascus . — Hanani’s  remonstrance  (2  Chron.  xvi,  7) 
prepares’us  for  the  reversal  by  Jehoshaphat  of  the  pol- 
icy which  Asa  pursued  towards  Israel  and  Damascus. 
A close  alliance  sprang  up  with  strange  rapidity  be- 
tween Judah  and  Israel.  For  eighty  years,  till  the  time 
of  Amaziah,  there  was  no  open  war  between  them,  and 
Damascus  appears  as  their  chief  and  common  enemy, 
though  it  rose  afterwards  from  its  overthrow  to  become, 
under  Rezin,  the  ally  of  Pekah  against  Ahaz.  Jehosh- 
aphat, active  and  prosperous,  repelled  nomad  invaders 
from  the  desert,  curbed  the  aggressive  spirit  of  his 
nearer  neighbors,  and  made  his  influence  felt  even 
among  the  Philistines  and  Arabians.  A still  more  last- 
ing benefit  was  conferred  on  his  kingdom  by  his  perse- 
vering efforts  for  the  religious  instruction  of  the  people 
and  the  regular  administration  of  justice.  The  reign 
of  Jehoram,  the  husband  of  Athaliah,  a time  of  blood- 
shed, idolatry,  and  disaster,  was  cut  short  by  disease. 
Ahaziah  was  slain  by  Jehu.  Athaliah,  the  grand- 
daughter of  a Tyrian  king,  usurped  the  blood-stained 
throne  of  David,  till  the  followers  of  the  ancient  relig- 
ion put  her  to  death,  and  crowned  Jehoash,  the  surviv- 
ing scion  of  the  royal  house.  His  preserver,  the  high- 
priest,  acquired  prominent  personal  influence  for  a time  ; 
but  the  king  fell  into  idolatry,  and  failing  to  withstand 
the  power  of  Syria,  was  murdered  by  his  own  officers. 
The  vigorous  Amaziah,  Hushed  with  the  victory  of 
Edom,  provoked  a war  with  his  more  powerful  contem- 
porary Jehoash,  the  conqueror  of  the  Syrians,  and  Je- 
rusalem was  entered  and  plundered  by  the  Israelites. 
But  their  energies  were  sufficiently  occupied  in  the  task 
of  completing  the  subjugation  of  Damascus.  Under 
Uzziah  and  Jotham,  Jiulah  long  enjoyed  political  and 
religious  prosperity  till  the  wanton  Ahaz,  surrounded  by 
united  enemies,  with  whom  he  was  unable  to  cope,  be- 
came in  an  evil  hour  the  tributary  and  vassal  of  Tig- 
lath-Pileser. 

o.  Deference,  perhaps  Vassalage,  to  the  Assyrian 
King. — Already  in  the  fatal  grasp  of  Assyria,  Jtidaii  was 
yet  spared  for  a checkered  existence  of  almost  another 
century  and  a half  after  the  termination  of  the  kingdom 
of  Israel.  The  effect  of  the  repulsg  of  .Sennacherib,  of 
the  signal  religious  revivals  under  Hezekiah  and  Josiah, 
and  of  the  extension  of  these  kings’  salutary  influence 
over  the  long-severed  territory  of  Israel,  was  apparently 
done  away  by  the  ignominious  reign  of  the  impious 
Manasseh,  and  the  lingering  decay  of  the  whole  people 
under  the  four  feeble  descendants  of  Josiah.  Provoked 
by  their  treachery  and  imbecility,  their  Babylonian  mas- 
ter, who  had  meanwhile  succeeded  to  the  dominion  of 
the  Assyrians,  drained,  in  successive  deportations,  all  the 
strength  of  the  kingdom.  The  consummation  of  the  ruin 
came  upon  them  in  the  destruction  of  the  Temple  by  the 
hand  of  Nebnzaradan,  amid  the  wailing  of  prophets  and 
the  taunts  of  heathen  tribes  released  at  length  from  the 
yoke  of  David. 

VI.  Moral  State. — The  national  life  of  the  Hebrews 
appeared  to  become  gradually  weaker  during  these  sne- 


cessnre  stages  of  history,  until  at  length  it  seemed  ex- 
tinct ; but  there  was  still,  as  there  had  been  all  along,  a 
spiritual  life  hidden  within  the  body.  It  was  a time  of 
hopeless  darkness  to  all  but  those  Jews  who  had  strong 
faith  in  God,  with  a clear  and  steady  insight  into  the 
ways  of  Providence  as  interpreted  by  prophecy.  The 
time  of  the  division  of  the  kingdoms  was  the  golden  age 
of  prophecy.  In  each  kingdom  the  prophetical  office 
was  subject  to  peculiar  modifications  which  were  re- 
quired in  Judah  by  the  circumstances  of  the  priesthood, 
in  Israel  by  the  existence  of  the  house  of  Baal  and  the 
altar  in  Bethel.  If,  under  the  shadow  of  the  Temple, 
there  was  a depth  and  a grasp  elswliere  unequalled,  in 
the  views  of  Isaiah  and  the  prophets  of  Judah;  if  their 
writings  touched  and  elevated  the  hearts  of  thinking 
men  in  studious  retirement  in  the  silent  night-watches, 
there  was  also,  in  the  few  burning  words  and  energetic 
deeds  of  the  prophets  of  Israel,  a power  to  tame  a law- 
less multitude  and  to  check  the  high-handed  tyranny 
and  idolatry  of  kings.  The  organization  and  moral  in- 
fluence of  the  priesthood  were  matured  in  the  time  of 
David ; from  about  that  time  to  the  building  of  the 
second  Temple  the  influence  of  the  prophets  rose  and 
became  predominant.  .Some  historians  have  suspected 
that  after  the  reign  of  Athaliah,  the  priesthood  gradu- 
ally acquired  and  retained  excessive  and  unconstitu- 
tional power  in  Judah.  The  recorded  facts  scarcely  sus- 
tain the  conjecture.  Had  it  been  so,  the  effect  of  such 
power  would  have  been  manifest  in  the  exorbitant 
wealth  and  luxury  of  the  priests,  and  in  the  constant 
and  cruel  enforcement  of  penal  laws,  like  those  of  Asa, 
against  irroligion.  But  the  peculiar  offences  of  the 
priesthood,  as  witnessed  in  the  prophetic  writings,  were 
of  another  kind.  Ignorance  of  God’s  word,  neglect  of 
the  instruction  of  the  laity,  untruthful  ness,  and  partial 
judgments,  are  the  offences  specially  imputed  to  them, 
just  such  as  might  be  looked  for  where  the  priesthood 
is  a hereditary  caste  and  irresponsible,  but  neither  am- 
bitious nor  powerful.  When  the  priest  either,  as  was 
the  ease  in  Israel,  abandoned  the  land,  or,  as  in  Judah, 
ceased  to  be  really  a teacher,  ceased  from  spiritual  com- 
munion with  God,  ceased  from  living  sympathy  with 
man,  and  became  the  mere  image  of  an  intercessor,  a 
mechanical  performer  of  ceremonial  duties  little  under- 
stood or  heeded  by  himself,  then  the  prophet  was  raised 
up  to  supply  some  of  his  deficiencies,  and  to  exercise  his 
functions  so  far  as  was  necessary.  Whilst  the  priests 
sink  into  obscurity  and  almost  disappear,  except  from 
the  genealogical  tables,  the  prophets  come  forward  ap- 
pealing everywhere  to  the  conscience  of  individuals — in 
Israel  as  wonder-workers,  calling  together  God’s  chosen 
few  out  of  an  idolatrous  nation,  and  in  Judah  as  teach- 
ers and  seers,  supporting  and  purifying  all  that  remain- 
ed of  ancient  piety,  explaining  each  mysterious  dispen- 
sation of  God  as  it  was  unfolded,  and  promulgating  his 
gracious  spiritual  promises  in  all  their  extent.  The 
part  which  Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  and  other  prophets  took  in 
preparing  the  Jews  for  their  captivity,  cannot,  indeed, 
be  fully  appreciated  without  reviewing  the  succeeding 
efforts  of  Ezekiel  and  Daniel.  But  the  influence  which 
they  exercised  on  the  national  mind  was  too  important 
to  be  overlooked  in  a sketch,  however  brief,  of  the  his- 
tory of  the  kingdom  of  Judah.  See  Prophet. 

JUDAII,  Mountains  of.  This  is  appropriately  the 
name  of  a range  of  hills  to  the  south  and  west  of  Jeru- 
salem, styled  in  Luke  i, 3D,  G5,  the  “hill-country  of  Ju- 
daea” (7/  voeivt)  rij£  'I ovlaiac).  The  hills  are  low  and 
conical,  uniform  in  shape  even  to  weariness;  the  vege- 
tation, save  in  early  spring,  is  dry  and  parched,  the  val- 
leys are  broad  and  featureless.  Everywhere  at  the  pres- 
ent day  are  signs  that  the  land  of  corn,  and  wine,  and 
oil  has  become  desolate.  The  fenced  cities  and  villages 
surmount  the  hills,  but  they  are  in  ruins;  the  terraces 
where  once  were  vineyards  and  cornfields  can  be  traced 
along  the  mountain  sides, but  they  are  neglected;  wells 
and  pools  of  water  are  to  be  found  in  every  valley,  but 
there  is  none  to  drink  of  them.  .See  Judah,  tribe  of. 


JUDAH 


1054 


JUDAH  IIAK-KODESH 


JUDA1I,  Wilderness  of.  The  desert  of  Judah 
(Pn*rP  is  mentioned  in  the  title  of  Psa.  lxiii, 

and  the  desert  of  Judaea  («i  Iptyai,  or  //  tptjyog  t>]q  ’lov- 
cciiac),  frequently  referred  to  in  the  gospels,  is  consider- 
ed to* be  the  same  locality.  It  was  situated  adjacent  to 
the  Dead  Sea  and  the  Iliver  Jordan,  and  was  a mountain- 
ous and  thinly-inhabited  tract  of  country,  but  abound- 
ing in  pastures.  In  the  time  of  Joshua  it  had  six  cit- 
ies, with  their  villages  (Josh,  xv,  01,  02),  but  it  is  now, 
and  has  long  been,  one  of  the  most  dreary  and  desolate 
regions  of  the  whole  country  (Robinson  s Researches , ii, 
202, 310 ).  The  positions  of  this  desert  specially  alluded 
to  in  the  N.  T.  are,  (1.)  That  in  which  John  the  Baptist 
grew  up.  probably  west  of  the  Dead  Sea  (Luke  i,80;  iii, 
2);  (2.)  That  where  he  baptized,  i.  e.  the  uninhabited 
tract  along  the  Jordan  (Matt,  iii,  1 ; Mark  i,4 ; compare 
5);  (3.)  That  where  Jesus  was  tempted,  perhaps  the 
high  desert  west  of  Jericho  (Matt,  iv,  1 ; Mark  i,  12, 13) ; 
(4.)  The  tract  between  the  Mount  of  Olives  and  Jericho, 
probably  referred  to  in  Acts  xxi,38  (see  Josephus,  .l«t. 
xx,  8,  fij  ; (5.)  The  tract  adjacent  to  the  city  Ephraim, 
probably  Tayibeh,  towards  the  Jordan  (John  xi,  54). 
See  Jrn.vii,  tribe  of. 

JUDAII  UPON  JORDAN  (-j-n?n  rvrirr,  Judah 
of  the  Jordan;  Sept,  and  Vulg.  in  most  editions  omit 
“Judah” altogether), is  mentioned  as  the  extreme  east- 
ern limit  of  the  territory  of  Naphtali  (but  not  within  it), 
apparently  on  its  northern  boundary  (Josh,  xix,  34),  and 
therefore  probably  referring  to  a tract  immediately  east 
of  that  around  the  sources  of  the  Jordan,  between  Mount 
Heriuon  and  1 lamas.  Schwarz  (Palestine,  p.  185)  plau- 
sibly explains  the  application  of  the  name  of  Judah  to 
a region  so  far  distant  from  the  territory  of  that  tribe 
by  assigning  it  as  the  title  to  the  (lileaditisli  district  em- 
braced in  the  circuit  of  the  towns  of  Ilaroth-Jair , i.  e. 
the  villages  of  Jair,  who  was  a descendant  of  Judah  (1 
Chron.  ii,  21);  and  he  adduces  Talmudieal  authorities 
for  reckoning  his  possessions  as  a part  of  that  tribe.  See 
J-viu.  The  same  explanation  had  been  suggested  by  C. 
von  Raumer  (cited  by  Iveil,  Comment,  on  Josh,  ad  loc.). 
Dr.  Thomson  ( Land  and  Book , i,389  sq.)  speaks  of  three 
interesting  domes  in  this  vicinity,  called  those  of  Seul 
Yehuda  (i.  e.  “Lord  Judah,”  the  Arabs  traditionally 
holding  that  they  represent  the  tomb  of  the  son  of  Ja- 
cob^, which  he  believes  is  a clew  to  the  connection  of 
this  city  with  the  tribe  of  the  same  name. 


Seid  Yehiula. n 


2.  One  of  the  Levites  who  returned  from  Babvlon 
with  /ernbbabe]  ( Neb.  xii.  8\  P,( 536.  It  is  pork a ns 
he  whose  sous  are  alluded  to  (but  unnamed)  as  aiding 


I the  priests  in  pushing  the  reconstruction  of  the  Temple 
(Ezra  iii,  9) ; unless  this  latter  be  rather  the  person  else- 
where called  Hodaviah  (Ezra  ii,  40). 

3.  One  of  those  who  followed  the  half  of  the  Jewish 
chiefs  around  the  southern  section  of  the  newly-erected 
walls  of  Jerusalem,  but  whether  he  was  a Levite  or  priest 
is  not  stated  (Xeh.  xii,  34).  B.C.  446. 

4.  One  of  those  who  accompanied  with  musical  per- 
formances the  procession  around  the  southern  quarter 
of  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  lately  reconstructed  (Xeh.  xii, 
36).  B.C.446.  He  was  perhaps  identical  with  the  pre- 
ceding. 

5.  Son  of  Senuah,  a descendant  of  Benjamin,  and  pre- 
fect of  Acra  or  the  Lower  City  (nri:,2  over 

the  second  city,  not  “ second  over  the  city,”  as  the  Anth. 
Vers,  following  the  Sept,  and  Vulg.)  after  the  exile  (Nell, 
xi,  9).  B.C.  cir.  440. 

Judah  hak-Kodesh,  or  the  Holy,  son  of  Simon, 
of  the  tribe  of  Benjamin,  and  a descendant  of  Hillel  I, 
is  one  of  the  most  celebrated  characters  in  Jewish  his- 
tory. He  was  born  at  Tiberias,  according  to  accounts, 
about  135,  on  the  same  day  on  which  Rabbi  Akiba  suf- 
fered martyrdom — an  event  predicted,  according  to  his 
admirers,  in  the  verse  of  Solomon : “ One  sun  ariseth, 
and  one  sun  goeth  down.”  While  yet  a youth  lie  was, 
on  account  of  his  extraordinary  proficiency  in  Jewish 
law,  admitted  to  the  Sanhedrim,  and  on  the  death  of 
his  father  followed  him  in  the  presidency  of  that  learned 
body.  The  manner  in  which  he  administered  the  du- 
| ties  of  this  high  office  was  in  itself  sufficient  to  win  for 
him  “ the  praise  of  his  people  in  all  their  generations.” 
Maimonides  describes  him  as  having  been  a man  so  no- 
bly gifted  by  the  Almighty  with  the  choicest  endow- 
ments as  to  be  the  phoenix  and  ornament  of  his  age. 
But  the  best  evidence  of  the  high  estimation  in  which 
his  contemporaries  held  him  is  afforded  by  the  many 
favorable  epithets  which  they  fastened  on  him.  Besides 
the  title  of  Nasi,  which  his  position  as  president  of  the 
Sanhedrim  secured  him,  he  was  more  generally  known 
as  “ Rabbi,”  which  was  applied  to  him  tear’  i^o\r]v, 
with  no  further  note  of  individual  distinction.  He  was 
known  as  the  “saint,”  the  “holy  one,”  the  meek.  Be- 
ing, like  Hillel  I,  of  the  house  of  L)avid,  he  sometimes 
was,  as  Bar-Cocheba  had  previously  been,  looked  upon 
as  the  promised  Messiah.  But  this  opinion  was,  after 
all,  confined  only  to  a few.  Certain  it  is,  however,  that 
he  exerted  an  influence  over 
the  Jewish  nation  of  his  day 
far  wider  and  more  powerful 
in  its  extent  than  had  ever 
fallen  to  the  lot  of  any  Xasi, 
even  any  member  of  his  house 
since  the  days  of  Hillel.  This 
may  be  due  perhaps  not  so 
much  to  his  vast  erudition  as 
to  his  wealth,  which  enabled 
him  to  become  the  supporter 
of  hundreds  and  thousands  of 
poor  youths,  who.  after  they 
had  sat  at  his  feet,  went  out 
all  over  the  Jewish  abodes  to 
sound  aloud  the  praises  of  their 
noble  master  and  teacher  in 
Israel.  But  Judah  hak-Ko- 
desh has  far  greater  claims  for 
our  consideration  : he  has  built 
himself  a far  more  enduring 
monument  as  the  Moses  of  later 
Rabbinism  (q.  v.),  as  the  com- 
piler of  the  Mishna  (q.  v.),  or 
code  of  traditional  law,  the  em- 
bodiment of  all  the  authorized 
interpretations  of  the  Mosaic 
law,  the  traditions,  the  decisions  of  the  learned,  and  the 
precedents  of  the  courts  or  schools — a sort  of  Jeirish  Pan- 
dects. “ In  attempting  this  Herculean  task,”  says  Eth- 


JUDAH  JUDGHAN 


1055 


JUDAISM 


eridge  ( Infrod . Jewish  Lit.  p.  88),  “ he  may  have  been 
moved  by  the  peculiar  condition  of  the  Jewish  communi- 
ty. They  were  a scattered  people,  liable  at  any  hour  to 
the  renewal  of  a wasting  persecution,  and  maintaining 
their  religions  standing  in  the  presence  of  an  ever-ad- 
vancing Christianity,  and  in  defiance  of  the  menaces  of 
a world  which  always  viewed  them  with  hatred.  Their 
schools,  tolerated  to-day,  might  to-morrow  be  mider  the 
imperial  interdict,  and  the  lips  of  the  Rabbins,  which 
now  kept  the  knowledge  of  the  law,  beeome  dumb  by  the 
terror  of  the  oppressor.  These  circumstances  possessed 
him  with  the  apprehension  that  the  traditionallearning 
received  from  their  fathers  would,  without  a fixed  me- 
morial, at  no  distant  time  be  either  greatly  corrupted 
or  altogether  perish  from  among  them.  It  was  his  wish 
also  to  furnish  the  Hebrew  people  with  such  a docu- 
mentary code  as  would  be  a sufficient  guide  for  them, 
not  only  in  the  affairs  of  religion,  but  also  in  their  deal- 
ings with  one  another  in  civil  life,  so  as  to  render  it  un- 
necessary for  them  to  have  recourse  to  suits  at  law  at 
the  heathen  tribunals.  In  addition  to  these  motives, 
he  was  probably  actuated' also  by  the  prevailing  spirit 
of  codification,  which  was  one  of  the  characteristics  of 
the  age.  Legal  science  was  in  the  ascendant,  and  the 
great  law-schools  of  Rome,  Berytus,  and  Alexandria 
were  in  their  meridian;  and  Judah,  who  loved  his  law 
better  than  they  could  theirs,  wished  to  give  it  the  same 
advantages  of  simplification,  system,  and  immutability 
which  such  jurists  as  Salvius  Julianus  had  accomplished 
for  the  Roman  law's  in  the  time  of  Hadrian,  and  Ulpian 
was  laboring  at  in  his  own  day.”  The  Mislina  is  divi- 
ded into  six  parts  ( sedarim ) : the  first  treats  of  agricul- 
ture, the  second  of  festivals,  the  third  of  marriages,  the 
fourth  of  civil  affairs,  the  fifth  of  sacrifices  and  religious 
ceremonies,  and  the  sixth  of  legal  purification.  The 
text  was  published  with  short  glosses  at  Amsterdam 
(1631,  8vo),  and  often  reprinted,  with  more  or  less  ex- 
tensive commentaries,  at  Amsterdam,  Venice,  Constan- 
tinople, etc.  (See  a list  of  the  editions,  translations, 
etc.,  in  Fiirst,  Biblioth.  Judaiea.')  His  last  days  Judah 
hak-Kodcsh  spent  at  Sepphoris,  whither  he  removed  on 
account  of  his  failing  health.  The  exact  date  of  his 
death  is  not  known,  but  it  must  have  occurred  between 
190  and  194.  He  is  frequently  spoken  of  as  a friend 
and  contemporary  of  one  of  the  emperors  Antoninus, 
generally  supposed  to  be  Marcus  Aurelius,  but  Griitz 
and  other  critics  are  inclined  to  doubt  the  possibility  of 
an  intimate  relation  between  this  head  of  the  Jewish 
Church  and  a Roman  emperor.  See,  however,  Bodeck, 
M.  A.  Antoninus  als  Freund  u.  Zeitgenosse  des  R.Jehuda 
ha-Nasi (Lpz.  1868);  Contemp. Rev.  1869, p.81  sq. ; Griitz, 
Geschichte  d.  Juden,  iv,  246  sq.  See  also  Schneeberger, 
Life  and  Works  o f Rabbi  Jehuda  ha-Nasi  (Berl.  1870) ; 
Jost,  Gesch.  d.  Judenth.  u.  s.  Sekten,  ii,  425  sq.  (J.  H.W.) 

Judah  Judghan,  the  Persian,  one  of  the  most 
celebrated  of  the  Karaites,  afterwards  himself  the  found- 
er of  an  independent  Jewish  sect,  flourished  probably 
about  the  first  half  of  the  9th  century,  in  the  city  Ha- 
madan,  in  Persia.  His  opponents  say  of  him  that  he 
was  of  low  descent,  and  that  his  early  years  were  spent 
as  a tender  of  camels,  but  the  learning  he  displayed  and 
his  intimate  knowledge  of  Mohammedanism  make  this 
report  doubtful.  We  know  nothing  definitely  of  him 
until  he  appeared  before  his  countrymen  with  the  dec- 
laration that  he  was  the  forerunner  of  the  Messiah,  and 
preached  the  doctrine  of  free-will,  and  non-intervention 
of  God  in  mundane  affairs.  He  also  argued  that  Sab- 
baths and  festivals  were  no  longer  to  be  kept,  as  they 
had  been  done  away  with  by  the  dispersion  of  the  cho- 
sen people,  enjoining,  however,  at  the  same  time,  a life 
of  striet  asceticism.  Preaching,  as  he  did,  under  the 
very  shadow  of  Mohammedanism,  doctrines  very  much 
akin  to  it  (comp.  Mutazii.ites),  he  found  ready  con- 
verts, and  his  followers  increased  rapidly.  They  contin- 
ued faithful  even  after  his  decease,  believing  (like  the 
Shiites  of  Ali)  that  he  did  not  die  a natural  death,  and 
that  he  was  to  reappear  and  give  to  Judaism  a new  law. 


The  Mushkhanites  (q.  v.)  may  he  considered  as  a branch 
of  this  sect.  For  further  details,  see  Fiirst,  Geschichte  d. 
Kareierthums,  p.  26  sq.;  Griitz,  Gesch.  der  Juden , v,  227 
sq.,  516  sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Judah  (or  Juda),  Leo,  one  of  the  Swiss  reform- 
ers, was  bom  at  Germar,  in  Alsace,  in  1482,  His  father’s 
name  was  John  Jud,  but  whether  of  Jewish  descent, 
Leo  himself  tells  us  he  was  unable  to  say.  The  name, 
however,  exposed  him  to  reproach,  and  perhaps  for  this 
reason  we  find  him  sometimes  designating  himself  as 
Leo  Keller ; in  Zurich  he  was  known  as  Meister  Low, 
and  this  name  his  descendants  adopted.  He  was  edu- 
cated for  the  medical  profession,  but  through  the  in- 
fluence of  Zwingle  forsook  this  for  the  clerical.  He 
succeeded  the  latter  in  the  church  of  Notre  Dame 
des  Eremites,  and  finally  became  his  associate  at  Zu- 
rich. Together  they  entered  zealously  on  their  work 
of  reform,  and  Judah  contributed  no  little  to  the  spread- 
ing and  propagating  of  Zwinglian  ideas.  With  the 
great  reformer  he  appeared  at  the  second  conference 
in  Zurich  (1523),  and  together  they  replied  to  all  who 
defended  the  worship  of  images  and  the  celebration 
of  the  mass  as  a sacrifice.  Judah  died  June  19, 1542. 
He  made  a translation  of  the  greater  part  of  the  Old 
Testament  from  the  Hebrew  text,  and  also  of  the  New 
from  the  Greek.  It  was  completed  by  Bibliander  and 
Peter  Cholin,  and  reviewed  by  Pellicanus  (Zurich,  1543; 
reprinted  at  Paris,  with  the  Vulgate,  in  1545).  See 
German  Versions.  Of  his  original  productions,  his 
Catechism  (1534,  Latin  and  German)  is  the  most  noted. 
He  translated  the  writings  of  Zwingle  and  Luther.  See 
Hook,  Eccles.  Biog.  vi,  365 ; Ivitto,  Cyclop,  s.  v. 

Judaism,  the  name  by  which  we  designate  the  re- 
ligions doctrines  and  rites  of  the  people  ehosen  by  Je- 
hovah as  his  peculiar  people;  the  descendants  of  Jacob, 
to  w'liom  the  law  was  given  by  Moses,  and  religious 
light  and  truth  were  revealed  in  the  Old  Testament; 
the  most  important  branch  of  that  family  of  nations 
conventionally  comprised  under  the  title  of  Shemites 
— a people  of  many  fates  and  of  many  names,  called  by 
the  Bible  the  people  of  God;  by  Mohammed,  the  peo- 
ple of  the  Book;  by  Hegel,  “the  people  of  the  Geist" 
and  now  generally  known  as  Hebrews , Israelites,  or  Jews. 

Abrahamism. — To  the  Christian  student  especially, 
the  early  development  of  the  doctrines  of  this  people  is 
interesting,  as  unfolded  in  the  pages  of  the  older  half  of 
the  inspired  writings  that  go  to  make  up  the  basis  of 
his  own  creed.  Judaism  is  pre-eminently  a monothe- 
istic faith,  originating  with  the  patriarch  Abraham 
when,  in  an  a?ra  of  polytheism  and  flagrant  vice,  he  be- 
came the  founder  of  monotheism  by  a prompt  recogni- 
tion and  worship  of  the  one  living  and  true  God ; and 
from  that  remote  day  to  this,  all  the  Jewish  people  pride 
themselves  in  being  “ children  of  Abraham.”  It  is  a 
fact  striking  to  ever}'  student  of  comparative  religion, 
and  in  no  small  degree  a proof  of  the  authenticity  of  the 
O.-T.  Scriptures,  that  this  monotheistic  faith  originated 
at  a time  when  the  religion  of  all  other  branches  of  the 
same  family,  which,  with  the  Hebrew,  make  up  the  She- 
mitic,  differed  widely  from  it  in  every  respect.  The  As- 
syrians, Babylonians,  Phoenicians,  and  Carthaginians  all 
possessed  a nearly  identical  religion,  but  one  that  lacked 
the  essential  feature  of  Judaism.  They  all,  it  is  true,  be- 
lieved in  a supreme  god,  called  by  the  different  names 
of  Tlu,  Bel,  Set,  Iladad, Moloch,  Chemosli,  Jaoh,  El,Adou, 
Asslmr,  hut  they  also  all  believed  in  subordinate  anil 
secondary  beings,  emanations  from  this  supreme  being, 
his  manifestations  to  the  world,  rulers  of  the  planets; 
and,  like  other  pantheistic  religions,  the  custom  prevailed 
among  these  Shemitic  nations  of  promoting  first  one  and 
then  another  deity  to  be  the  supreme  object  of  worship. 
Among  the  Assyrians,  as  among  the  Egyptians,  the  gods 
were  often  arranged  in  triads,  as  that  of  Anu,  Bel,  and 
Ao.  Anu  or  Oannes  wore  the  head  of  a fish ; Bel  wore 
the  horns  of  a bull ; Ao  was  represented  by  a serpent. 
These  religions,  in  short,  represented  the  gods  as  the 


1056 


JUDAISM 


JUDAISM 


Spirit  within  and  behind  natural  objects  and  forces— 
powers  within  the  world,  rather  than,  as  among  the  He- 
brews, a Spirit  above  the  world.  The  Hebrews'  God 
was  a God  above  nature,  not  simply  in  it.  He  stood 
alone,  unaccompanied  by  secondary  deities.  His  wor- 
ship required  purity, not  pollution;  its  aim  was  holiness, 
and  its  spirit  humane,  not  cruel.  Monotheistic  from  the 
first,  it  became  an  absolute  monotheism  in  its  develop- 
ment. In  all  the  Sheraitic  nations,  behind  the  numer- 
ous divine  beings  representing  the  powers  of  nature 
there  was,  it  is  true,  dimly  visible  one  supreme  Being, 
of  whom  all  these  were  emanations;  but  there  was  also 
among  all  of  them,  except  the  Hebrew  branch,  a ten- 
dency to  lose  sight  of  the  first  great  Cause,  the  very  re- 
verse’ of  the  tendency  of  the  faith  of  Abraham,  whose 
soul  rose  to  the  contemplation  of  the  perfect  Being, 
above  all  and  the  source  of  all.  With  passionate  love 
he  adored  this  most  high  God,  maker  of  heaven  and 
earth.  Such  was  his  devotion  to  this  almighty  Being, 
that  men  said,  “Abraham  is  the  friend  of  the  most  high 
God.”  The  difference,  then,  between  the  religion  of 
Abraham  and  that  of  the  polytheistic  nations  was,  that 
while  they  descended  frdm  the  idea  of  a supreme  Being 
into  that  of  subordinate  ones,  he  went  back  to  that  of 
the  supreme,  and  clung  to  this  with  his  whole  soul 
(Clark,  Ten  great  Religions,  chap.  x).  See  Abraiiam. 

Mosaism.—' This  abstract  faith  continued  to  be  the 
faith  of  the  Israelites  until  it  was  transformed  at  Mount 
Sinai  by  the  Lord  himself,  through  his  chosen  servant 
Moses.  Thereafter  the  Abraliamic  idea  was  clothed  in 
forms  rendered  necessary  not  only  by  the  character  of 
the  age,  but.  also  by  the  frailty  of  men,  to  the  generality 
of  whom  hitherto  ceremonies  had  been  absolutely  essen- 
tial. From  the  “Mosaic  Revelation,”  as  Dean  Stanley 
(Jewish  Ck.,  First  Series,  Leet.  vii)  calls  it,  dates  the  es- 
tablishment not  only  of  the  Judaic  principle  itself,  but 
of  the  Theocracy  (see  Josephus,  .1  pion,  ii,  17).  Thence- 
forth the  followers  of  Abraham  not  only  worshipped  the 
one  “supreme  Being,"  but  they  were  governed  by  him ; 
i.  e.  from  the  converse  of  Moses  with  the  Lord  dates  the 
ultimate  union  of  the  Jewish  Church  and  State — the 
corelation  of  life  and  religion,  of  the  nation  and  the  in- 
dividual. See  Moses;  Law. 

Prophetism.  — Surrounded  by  idolaters  on  all  sides, 
with  whom  they  were  brought  in  contact  continually, 
the  Hebrews  gradually  disobeyed  the  commandments  of 
Sinai  until  idolatry  destroyed  all  personal  morality,  and 
the  chosen  people  knew  not  their  Lord.  To  save  the 
race  from  utter  apostasy, holy  men  were  inspired  by  the 
Lord  to  make  known  the  penalty  of  idolatry  and  immo- 
rality. Amid  the  trials  and  sore  afflictions  with  which 
he  visits  the  nation,  he  yet  declares  the  perpetuity  of 
the  Jewish  faith.  A Messiah  shall  eventually  gather 
in  the  people,  and  to  the  Lord  alone  shall  service  be  ren- 
dered. See  Messiah.  Though  the  present  plant  shall 
wither,  the  seed  shall  continue  to  live,  from  whose  ger- 
mination shall  spring  a llower  of  greater  fragrance  in 
the  fulness  of  time.  All  through  the  captivity  among 
the  Assyrians  and  Babylonians,  even  after  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  Temple,  the  life  of  the  seed  was  attested  by 
the  fruit  it  bore.  See  Cartivitv;  Prophecy. 

Rabbinism — When  the  political  existence  of  the  Jews 
was  annihilated,  they  nerved  themselves,  with  that  de- 
termination characteristic  of  the  Hebrew  race,  for  an- 
other and  more  determined  strife.  In  consequence  of 
their  dispersion  as  a nation,  after  the  Babylonian  exile 
the  Mosaic  constitution  could  be  but  partially  re-estab- 
lished. “ The  whole  building  was  too  much  shattered, 
and  its  fragments  too  widely  dispersed,  to  reunite  in 
their  ancient  and  regular  form.”  But  from  his  captiv- 
ity the  Jew  had  brought  with  him  a reverential,  or, 
rather,  a passionate  attachment  to  the  Mosaic  law  and 
the  consecration  of  the  second  Temple,  and  the  re-es- 
tablisliment  of  the  state  had  been  accompanied  by  the 
ready  and  solemn  recognition  of  the  law.  The  syna- 
gogue was  instituted,  and  with  it  many  of  the  institu- 
tions which  have  tended  to  perpetuate  Judaism  to  the 


present  hour.  One  of  the  most  important  of  these  was  the 
constant  interpretation  of  the  law  and  the  prophets;  and 
as  the  acquaintance  with  the  law  became  more  intimate, 
the  attachment  to  it  grew  deeper  and  deeper  in  the  na- 
tional character,  until  it  finally  was  not  only  their  Bi- 
ble and  statute-book,  but  a guide  for  the  most  minute 
details  of  common  life.  “ But  no  written  law  can  pro- 
vide for  all  possible  exigencies;  whether  general  and 
comprehensive,  or  minute  and  multifarious,  it  equally 
requires  the  expositor  to  adapt  it  to  the  immediate  case 
which  may  occur,  either  before  the  public  tribunal  or 
that  of  the  private  conscience.  Hence  the  law  became 
a deep  and  intricate  study.  . . . Learning  in  the  law  be- 
came the  great  distinction  to  which  all  alike  paid  rev- 
erential homage.  Public  and  private  affairs  depended 
on  the  sanction  of  this  self-formed  spiritual  aristocracy. 

. . Every  duty  of  life,  of  social  intercourse  between 
man  and  man,  not  to  speak  of  its  weightier  authority  as 
the  national  code  of  criminal  and  civil  jurisprudence,  was 
regulated  by  an  appeal  to  the  book  of  the  law”  (Milman, 
History  of  the  Jeics,  ii,  417).  Thus  arose  the  office  of 
the  rabbis — the  clergy,  the  learned  interpreters  of  the 
law,  the  public  instructors,  to  whom,  by  degrees,  also  the 
spiritual  authority  was  transferred  from  the  priesthood. 
At  this  time,  also,  besides  the  inspired  Scriptures,  tra- 
ditional writings  became  another  ground  of  authority 
over  the  public  mind.  See  Tradition.  This  was  not, 
however,  as  universally  acknowledged,  and  gave  rise 
to  that  schism  in  Judaism  which  originated  the  Ka- 
raites (q.  v.).  Thus  Judaism  had  fortified  itself  after 
the  captivity,  so  that  when  the  Temple  was  finally 
again  destroyed,  and  public  worship  became  extinct, 
Rabbinism  was  able  to  supplant  the  original  religion 
of  the  Jews,  and  from  amid  the  blackened  walls  of  Jeru- 
salem rose,  ere  the  smoke  of  the  ruins  had  yet  ceased,  a 
new  bond  of  national  union,  the  great  distinctive  feature 
in  the  character  of  modern  Judaism.  With  the  Masora 
(q.  v.)  also  came  soon  after  the  Mishna  (q.  v.)  and  the 
Gemara,  which  together  form  the  Babylonian  Talmud 
[see  Talmud],  that  wonderful  monument  of  human  in- 
dustry— formulated  Mosaism — which  to  the  Jew  “ be- 
came the  magic  circle  within  which  the  national  mind 
patiently  labored  for  ages  in  performing  the  bidding  of 
the  ancient  and  mighty  enchanters,  who  drew  the  sa- 
cred line  beyond  which  it  might  not  venture  to  pass” 
(Milman),  and  which  so  securely  enwrapped  the  Jewish 
idea  in  almost  infinite  rules  and  laws  that  it  completely 
sheltered  it  from  polluting  contact  in  the  succeeding 
dark  ages.  It  is  thus  that  Judaism,  weathering  many 
a long  and  severe  storm,  has  continued  to  prosper,  and 
flourishes  even  in  our  own  day. 

Sects. — In  the  early  age  of  Judaism  we  saw  that  the 
simple  worship  of  a supreme  Being  constituted  its  pecul- 
iar characteristic.  At  that  time,  as  a sign  of  the  cove- 
nant of  Abraham  with  the  Lord,  the  rite  of  circumcision 
(q.  v.)  was  introduced,  and  was  soon  followed  by  the  for- 
mal institution  of  sacrifice.  In  the  period  of  Mosaism 
the  Jewish  belief  became  an  established  form  of  religion, 
and  then  were  introduced  certain  ceremonies  and  feast 
days,  together  with  the  priesthood.  In  the  Rabbinic 
period,  as  the  law  became  overlaid  by  tradition,  discus- 
sions arose,  and  the  Jews  were  divided  into  three  prin- 
cipal sects — the  Pharisees  (q.v.),who  placed  religion  in 
external  ceremony;  the  Sadducees  (q.  v.),  who  were  re- 
markable for  their  incredulity ; and  the  Essenes  (q.  v.), 
whose  peculiar  distinction  was  the  practice  of  austere 
sanctity.  Still  later  sprang  up  other  sects;  prominently 
among  these  are  the  Karaites,  the  strict  adherents  to  the 
letter  of  the  law,  the  opponents  of  rabbinical  interpreta- 
tions. For  a review  of  Jewish  literature,  see  Rabbinism. 

Modern  Judaism. — In  the  history  of  the  Jews  (q.  v.) 
we  have  seen  how  greatly  the  condition  of  this  people 
was  ameliorated  about  the  close  of  the  18th  century  by 
the  influence  of  Moses  Mendelssohn.  But  not  only  in 
their  civil  condition  did  his  efforts  affect  the  Jews;  he 
: also  greatly  changed  the  character  of  Judaism  itself. 
With  him  originated  a tendency  of  thought  and  action, 


JUDAISM 


1057 


JUDAISM 


which  has  since  spread  among  the  leaders  of  Judaism 
generally,  to  weaken  rabbinical  authority,  and  to  main- 
tain a more  simple  Biblical  Judaism.  These  have  now 
been  developed  into  two  special  phases  of  Jewish  opin- 
ion, which  are  represented  by  the  terms  “ Conservative" 
(or  Moderate  Orthodox)  and  “ Reformed ” (or  Liberal) 
Judaism.  (See  each  of  these  titles  below.) 

General  Creed . — A summary  of  the  religious  views  of 
the  Jews  was  first  compiled  in  the  11th  century  by  the 
second  great  Moses  (Maimonides),  and  it  continues  to 
be  with  the  Orthodox  the  Jewish  confession  of  faith  to 
the  present  day.  It  is  as  follows: 

1.  I believe,  with  a true  and  perfect  faith,  that  God  is  the 
creator  (whose  name  be  blessed),  governor,  aud  maker  of 
all  creatures;  and  that  he  hath  wrought  all  things,  work- 
eth,  and  shall  work  forever. 

2.  I believe,  vrilh  perfect  faith,  that  the  Creator  (whose 
name  be  blessed)  is  one ; and  that  ench  a unity  as  is  in 
him  can  be  found  in  none  other;  and  that  he  alone  hath 
been  our  God,  is,  and  forever  shall  be. 

3.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  the  Creator  (whose 
name  be  blessed)  is  not  corporeal,  not  to  be  comprehended 
with  auy  bodily  properties ; aud  that  there  is  no  bodily 
essence  that  cau  he  likened  unto  him. 

4.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  the  Creator  (whose 
name  be  blessed)  to  be  the  first  and  the  last ; that  nothing 
was  before  him,  and  that  he  shall  abide  the  last  forever. 

5.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  the  Creator  (whose 
name  be  blessed)  is  to  be  worshipped,  and  none  else. 

6.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  all  the  words  of 
the  prophets  are  true. 

7.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  the  prophecies  of 
Moses  our  master  (may  he  rest  in  peace !)  were  true ; that 
he  was  the  father  and  chief  of  all  wise  men  that  lived  be- 
fore him,  or  ever  shall  live  after  him. 

8.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  all  the  law  which 
at  this  day  is  found  in  our  hands  was  delivered  by  God 
himself  to  our  master  Moses  (God’s  peace  be  with  him  !). 

0.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  the  same  law  is 
never  to  be  changed,  nor  any  other  to  be  given  us  of  God 
(whose  name  be  blessed).  • 

10.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  God  (whose  name 
be  blessed)  understandeth  all  the  works  and  thoughts  of 
men,  as  it  is  written  in  the  prophets  ; be  fashioneth  their 
hearts  alike,  he  understandeth  all  their  works. 

11.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  God  (whose  name 
be  blessed)  will  recompense  good  to  them  that  keep  his 
commandmeuts,  and  will  punish  them  who  transgress 
them. 

12. 1 believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  the  Messiah  is  yet 
to  come;  and  although  he  retard  his  coming,  yet  I will 
wait  for  him  till  he  come. 

13.  I believe,  with  a perfect  faith,  that  the  dead  shall  be 
restored  to  life  when  it  shall  seem  fit  unto  God  the  crea- 
tor (whose  name  be  blessed,  and  memory  celebrated  with- 
out end.  Amen). 

Doctrine  of  Immortality. — In  regard  to  the  future  life, 
they  believe  in  reward  and  punishment,  but,  like  the 
Universalists  (q.  v.),  the  Jews  believe  in  the  ultimate 
salvation  of  all  men.  Like  the  Homan  Catholics  [see 
Fukgatory],  the  Jews  oiler  up  prayers  for  the  souls  of 
their  deceased  friends  (comp.  Alger,  Hist.  Doctr.  Future 
Life , chap,  viii  and  ix). 

Sacrifice. — Since  the  destruction  of  their  Temple  and 
their  dispersion  the  sacrifices  have  been  discontinued, 
but  in  all  other  respects  the  Mosaic  dispensation  is  ob- 
served intact  among  the  Orthodox  Jews. 

Worship. — Their  divine  worship  consists  in  the  read- 
ing of  the  Scriptures  and  prayer.  But  while  they  do 
not  insist  on  attendance  at  the  synagogue,  they  enjoin 
all  to  say  their  prayers  at  home,  or  in  any  place  where 
circumstances  may  place  them,  three  times  a day — morn- 
ing, afternoon,  and  evening;  they  repeat  also  blessings 
and  particular  praises  to  God,  aside  from  them,  at  their 
meals  and  on  many  other  occasions. 

In  their  morning  devotions  they  use  the  phylacteries 
(q.  v.)  and  the  Talith,  except  Saturday's,  when  they  use 
the  Talith  only.  See  Fringe. 

Calendar. — The  Jewish  year  is  either  civil  or  ecclesi- 
astical. The  civil  year  commences  in  the  month  of 
Tisri,  which  falls  into  some  part  of  our  September,  on 
the  view  that  the  world  was  created  on  the  first  day  of 
this  month  (Tisri).  The  ecclesiastical  year  commences 
about  the  vernal  equinox,  in  the  month  of  Nisan,  the 
latter  part  of  our  month  of  March  and  the  first  half  of 
April.  The  seventh  month  of  the  civil  year  they'  call 
the  first  of  the  ecclesiastical  vear.  because  this  was  ea- 
IV.— X x x 


joined  upon  them  at  their  departure  from  Egypt  (Numb, 
xxviii,  11).  Sec  Calendar. 

Feast  Days. — The  feasts  which  they  observe  at  pres- 
ent are  the  following : 1.  Passover , on  the  14th  of  Nisan, 
and  lasting  eight  days.  On  the  evening  before  the 
feast  the  first-born  of  every  family  observes  a fast  in  re- 
membrance of  God’s  mercy  toward  the  nation.  They 
eat  at  this  feast  unleavened  bread,  and  observe  as  strict 
holidays  the  two  first  and  last  days.  2.  Pentecost , or 
the  Feast  of  Weeks,  falling  seven  weeks  after  the  Pass- 
over,  is  at  present  celebrated  only  two  days.  3.  Trum- 
pets, on  the  1st  and  2d  of  Tisri,  of  which  tlie  first  is  call- 
ed New-year’s  day\  On  the  second  day  is  read  the  22d 
chapter  of  Genesis,  which  gives  an  account  of  Abraham’s 
offering  of  liifi  son  Isaac,  and  God’s  blessing  on  him  and 
his  seed.  Then  they  blow  the  trumpet,  or,  more  ac- 
curately', the  horn,  and  pray',  as  usual,  that  God  would 
bring  them  to  Jerusalem.  4.  Tabernacles,  on  the  15th 
of  Tisri,  and  lasting  nine  days ; the  first  and  the  last  two 
days  being  observed  as  feast  days,  and  the  other  four  as 
day's  of  labor.  On  the  first  day  they'  take  branches  of 
palm,  my'rtle,  willow,  and  citron  bound  together,  and  go 
around  the  altar  or  pulpit  singing  psalms,  because  this 
ceremony  was  formerly  performed  at  their  Temple.  On 
the  seventh  day  of  the  festival  they  take  copies  of  the 
torah,  or  law  of  Moses,  out  of  the  ark,  and  carry  them 
to  the  altar,  and  all  the  congregation  follow  in  procession 
seven  times  around  the  altar,  in  remembrance  of  the 
Sabbatical  yrear,  singing  the  29th  Psalm.  On  the  even- 
ing of  this  day  the  feast  of  solemn  assembly,  or  of  rejoic- 
ing, commences.  They'  read  passages  from  the  law  and 
the  prophets,  and  entreat  the  Lord  to  be  propitious  to 
them,  and  deliver  them  from  captivity'.  On  the  ninth 
day  they  repeat  several  pray'ers  in  honor  of  the  law, 
and  bless  God  for  his  mercy  and  goodness  in  giving  it 
to  them  by  his  servant  Moses,  and  read  that  part  of  the 
Scriptures  which  makes  mention  of  his  death.  5.  Pu- 
rim,  on  the  14th  and  15th  of  Adar  (or  March),  in  com- 
memoration of  the  deliverance  from  Hainan  (Esth. 
ix).  The  whole  book  of  Esther  is  read  repeatedly,  with 
liberal  almsgiving  to  the  poor.  6.  Besides  these  festivals 
appointed  by  Moses  and  Mordecai,  they  celebrate  the 
dedication  of  the  altar,  in  commemoration  of  the  victory 
over  Antiochus  Epiplianes.  This  festival  lasts  eight 
days,  and  is  appointed  to  be  kept  by  lighting  lamps. 
The  reason  they  assign  for  this  is  that,  at  this  purifica- 
tion and  rededication  of  the  Temple  after  the  deliverance 
from  Antiochus,  there  was  not  enough  of  pure  oil  left  to 
burn  one  night,  but  that  it  miraculously'  lasted  eight  day's, 
when  they  obtained  a fresh  supply'.  7.  Expiation  day, 
the  10th  day'  of  Tisri,  is  observed  by  the  Jews,  though 
they  have  neither  temple  nor  priest.  Before  the  feast 
they  seek  to  re-establish  friendly  relations  with  their 
neighbors,  and,  in  short,  do  everything  that  may  serve  to 
evince  the  sincerity'  of  their  repentance.  For  twenty- 
four  hours  they  observe  a strict  fast,  and  many  a pious 
soul  does  not  quit  the  synagogue  during  these  long  hours, 
but  remains  in  prayer  through  the  night.  See  Festival. 

Mission  and  Preservation  of  the  Jetvs. — The  preserva- 
tion of  the  Jews  as  a distinct  nation,  notwithstanding 
the  miseries  which  they'  have  endured  for  many'  ages, 
is  a wonderful  fact.  The  religions  of  other  nations  have 
depended  on  temporal  prosperity  for  their  duration ; 
they  have  triumphed  under  the  protection  of  conquer- 
ors, and  have  fallen  and  given  place  to  others  under  a 
succession  of  weak  monarchs.  Paganism  once  over- 
spread the  known  world,  even  where  it  no  longer  ex- 
ists. The  Christian  Church,  glorious  in  her  marty'rs. 
has  survived  the  persecution  of  her  enemies,  though  she 
cannot  heal  the  wounds  they  have  inflicted;  but  Juda- 
ism, hated  and  persecuted  for  so  many  centuries,  has  not 
merely  escaped  destruction,  it  has  been  powerful  and 
flourishing.  Kings  have  employed  the  severity  of  laws 
and  the  hand  of  the  executioner  to  eradicate  it,  and  a 
seditious  populace  have  injured  it  by'  their  massacres 
more  than  kings.  Sovereigns  and  their  subjects,  pa- 
gans, Christians,  and  Mohammedans,  opposed  to  each 


1058 


JUDAISM 


JUDAISM 

other  in  everything  else,  have  formed  a common  design 
to  annihilate  this  nation  without  success.  The  bush  of 
Moses  has  always  continued  burning,  and  never  been 
consumed.  The  expulsion  of  the  Jews  from  the  great 
cities  of  kingdoms  has  only  scattered  them  throughout 
the  world.  They  have  lived  from  age  to  age  in  wretch- 
edness, and  their  blood  has  flowed  freely  in  persecution  ; 
they  have  continued  to  our  day,  in  spite  of  the  disgrace 
and  hatred  which  everywhere  clung  to  them,  while  the 
greatest  empires  have  fallen  and  been  almost  forgotten. 
Every  Jew  is  at  this  moment  a living  witness  to  the 
Christian  as  to  the  authenticity  of  his  own  religion,  an 
undeniable  evidence  that  Christianity  is  the  last  rev- 
elation from  God;  and  the  patient  endurance  of  the 
descendants  of  Abraham  is  an  evidence*  that  Provi- 
dence has  guarded  them  throughout  all  their  miseries. 
Hence  the  Christian  should  regard  with  compassion  a 
people  so  lung  preserved  by  this  peculiar  care  amidst 
calamities  which  would  have  destroyed  any  other  na- 
tion. “ I would  look  at  the  ceremonies  of  pagan  wor- 
ship,” says  Dr.  Richardson,  “ as  a matter  of  little  more 
than  idle  curiosity,  but  those  of  the  Jews  reach  the 
heart.  This  is  the  most  ancient  form  of  worship  in  ex- 
istence; this  is  the  manner  in  which  the  God  of  heaven 
was  worshipped  when  all  the  other  nations  in  the  world 
were  sitting  in  darkness,  or  falling  down  to  stocks  and 
stones.  To  the  Jews  were  committed  the  oracles  of 
God.  This  is  the  manner  in  which  Moses  and  Elias, 
David  and  Solomon,  worshipped  the  God  of  tlicir  fa- 
thers ; this  worship  was  instituted  by  God  himself. 
The  time  will  come  when  the  descendants  of  his  an- 
cient people  shall  join  the  song  of  Moses  to  the  song  of 
the  Lamb,  and,  singing  hosannas  to  the  son  of  David, 
confess  his  power  to  save.” 

Restoration  of  the  Jews. — The  Jews,  as  is  well  known, 
deny  the  accomplishment  of  the  prophecies  in  the  per- 
son of  Jesus.  The  Reformed  Jews  (see  below)  deny  the 
promise  of  a personal  Messiah  altogether;  but  the  or- 
thodox, the  greater  part  of  the  Jews,  hold  that  the  Mes- 
siah has  not  yet  come,  but  that  they  will  be  redeemed  at 
the  appointed  time,  when  lie  of  whom  the  prophets 
spoke  shall  make  his  appearance  in  great  worldly  pomp 
and  grandeur,  subduing  all  nations,  and  restoring  the 
sceptre  of  universal  rule  to  the  house  of  Judah.  Then 
there  shall  reign  universal  peace  and  happiness  in  all 
the  earth,  never  again  to  be  interrupted,  and  to  the 
Jewish  fold  shall  return  those  of  the  flock  that  strayed 
iuto  the  Christian  and  Mohammedan  folds;  then  idola- 
try shall  cease  in  the  world,  and  all  men  acknowledge 
the  unity  of  God  and  his  kingdom.  (Comp.  Zech.  xiv, 
9, “And  the  Lord  shall  be  king  over  all  the  earth:  in 
that  day  shall  there  be  one  Lord,  and  his  name  one.) 
This  restoration  shall  be  effected,  not  on  account  of  any 
merits  of  their  own,  but  for  the  Lord’s  sake ; so  as  to  se- 
cure their  own  righteousness,  and  the  perfection  to 
which  they  shall  attain  after  their  deliverance.  (Atone- 
ment for  sin  is  made  by  the  fulfilling  of  the  law  and  by 
circumcision,  and  not,  as  the  Christian  holds,  by  the  sac- 
rifice of  the  Messiah.)  l'or  the  Christian  doctrine  of 
the  Restoration  of  the  Jews,  see  Restoration. 

Ji  DA1SM,  CONSERVATIVE.  The  gradual  eman- 
cipation of  the  Jews  in  Germany,  which,  however,  did 
not  become  final  anywhere  until  ISIS,  and  which  was 
rendered  complete  in  Havana  so  recently  as  18GG,  in- 
sensibly diminished  the  influence  of  Tahnudical  studies 
and  of  Rabbinical  lore  as  the  paramount  obligation  of 
hfc.  Compelled,  happily,  to  bear  their  own  share  in 
their  deliverance  from  oppression,  the  Jews  became 
inure  and  more  attached  to  the  land  of  their  nativity, 
and  more  and  more  estranged  from  the  traditional  alle- 
giance to  the  kingdom  of  Israel.  Their  love  for  Palcs- 
tme,  intense  and  impassioned  as  ever,  lias  assumed  a 
different  form.  I heir  union  and  fellowship  no  longer 
represented  a nationality  yearning  to  be  released  from 
captivity,  but  settled  down  into  the  indissoluble  affec- 
tion of  race  and  a common  faith,  not  inconsistent  with 
ties  of  citizenship  in  the  world. 


In  1807,  when  Napoleon  convened  the  so-called  Jew- 
ish Sanhedrim,  with  a view  of  establishing  the  relations 
between  the  empire  and  the  Jews  resident  in  France, 
the  first  official  and  authoritative  expression  of  the  trans- 
formed Jewish  sentiment  was  published.  In  effecRjt 
was  a defence  of  the  Jew’  who  had  for  centuries  been  de- 
nied the  rights  of  man,  and  pronounced  unfit  for  citizen- 
ship. It  declared  that  the  Jews  of  France  recognise  in 
the  fullest  sense  the  French  people  as  their  brethren ; 
that  France  is  their  country;  that  the  Jews  of  France 
recognise  as  paramount  the  law  s of  the  land,  and  tlicir 
religious  tribunals  have  no  authority  in  conflict  w'ith 
the  civil  courts  and  national  law’s;  that  the  Talmud  en- 
joins the  pursuit  of  a useful  trade  and  prohibits  usury; 
that  polygamy  is  forbidden  and  divorce  permitted. 

The  Jew’s  of  France  w’ere  equal  to  the  promise  of  the 
Sanhedrim.  They  proved  good  citizens,  and  faithfully 
adhered  to  their  distinct  religious  belief  and  practice. 
The  chief  rabbi  of  France  has  been  recognised  as  of  cor- 
responding dignity  with  the  archbishop  of  Paris,  and  in 
the  distribution  of  state  aid  to  ecclesiastical  institutions 
the  Jews  have  been  admitted  to  their  proportionate 
share.  The  Jew's  of  France,  like  those  of  Great  Britain 
and  Holland,  are  Conservative.  The  form  of  worship 
has  not  materially  changed  to  this  day.  The  Portu- 
guese ritual  is  follow'cd  at  one  of  the  Paris  synagogues, 
as  at  London  and  Amsterdam.  The  German  or  Polish 
ritual  is  otherwise  the  ride. 

In  Great  Britain,  about  the  year  1842,  the  key-note 
of  progress  was  struck  by  a Jewish  congregation  at  Lon- 
don, followed  by  that  of  Manchester.  There  are  now 
only  two  congregations  in  the  United  Kingdom  deny- 
ing the  authority  of  the  chief  rabbi.  In  Great  Britain, 
France,  and  Holland #thsre  exists  a recognised  ecclesias- 
tical authority.  The  administration  of  religious  affairs 
is  conducted  nearly  upon  the  Episcopal  system.  The 
spirit  of  the  churches  in  these  three  countries  is  ex- 
tremely conservative.  Nevertheless,  great  latitude  is  al- 
lowed to  individual  believers,  and  w hat  would  have  been 
regarded  as  capital  sins  a century  ago  are  considered 
trivial  to-day.  It  may  be  said  that  the  Jew’s  have  thor- 
oughly assimilated  themselves  to  the  rest  of  the  popula- 
tion. In  France  their  conservatism  is  formal  rather  than 
substantial,  and  the  nonconformist  is  treated  with  great 
liberality.  That  he  violates  the  sanctity  of  the  Jewish 
Sabbath  is  not  necessarily  a disqualification  for  high  of- 
fice in  the  congregation.  The  ministers  are  expected 
to  live  consistently  with  their  professions;  the  laity  are 
not  sharply  criticised.  In  England  conservatism  is  de- 
cided, authoritative,  uncompromising.  Nonconformists 
are  on  sufferance,  and  are  rarely  allowed  a voice  in  the 
administration  of  svnagogual  affairs.  In  Holland  lib- 
erty has  dealt  kindly  with  the  Jewish  people,  w’lio  are 
prominent  in  the  state  and  in  commerce,  in  science,  in 
learning,  and  in  art,  and  are  at  once  conservative  and 
tolerant  in  their  religious  view’s,  wdiile  consistent  in  the 
conduct  of  the  synagogue.  There  are  successful  Con- 
servative colleges  or  theological  seminaries  at  Paris, 
London,  Amsterdam,  Breslau,  Berlin,  and  Wurzburg. 

Conservative  Judaism  is  paramount  in  Belgium  and 
Italy,  and  has  held  its  own  in  some  parts  of  Austria  also. 
The  great  liapoport  (q.v.)  of  Prague,  one  of  the  finest 
scholars  of  that  century,  may  be  regarded  as  the  type  of 
the  intelligent  Conservative  Jew',  who  loved  the  Juda- 
ism of  the  past  with  fervor  and  intensity,  but  recognised 
as  the  duty  of  the  present  hour  the  preparation  of  his 
brethren  for  their  place  in  the  w’orld  at  length  grudg- 
ingly accorded  them. 

The  J udaism  of  Poland  and  Russia,  as  of  Palestine  and 
the  other  Asiatic  and  the  African  countries,  can  scarcely 
be  denominated  Conservative.  It  is  strictly  stationary. 
Education  has  not  yet  been  sufficiently  diffused  among 
the  masses  to  enable  them  intelligently  to  comprehend 
the  differences  or  points  of  unity  in  Judaism,  conserva- 
tive or  progressive.  The  study  of  the  Talmud  is  still 
pursued  with  ardor  in  every  Polish  village,  but  the  spir- 
it of  Judaism  is  not  as  potent  as  the  maintenance  of 


JUDAISM 


1059 


JUDAISM 


form  or  of  scholastic  authority.  Conservative  Judaism 
has  no  history  in  these  countries,  yet  its  scholars  have 
done  the  world  a sendee  in  the  preservation  of  Hebrew 
literature,  and  in  rescuing  from  oblivion  ancient  thought 
so  peculiarly  habited  and  disguised.  It  is  worthy  of 
note  that  the  chief  rabbi  at  Jerusalem  preserves  great 
state,  and  is  regarded  as  a functionary  of  signal  conse- 
quenc2,  but  the  institutions  of  learning  within  his  ju- 
risdiction are  mainly  sustained  by  the  benevolence  of 
European  and  American  Jews. 

The  Hebrews  in  the  United  States  number  about  half 
a million.  Their  material  progress  has  been  extraordi- 
nary. They  comprise  at  present  some  three  hundred  con- 
gregations, of  which  full  one  half  came  to  this  country 
only  within  the  last  twelve  years.  The  synagogues  ri- 
val the  most  beautiful  and  costly  churches  in  the  prin- 
cipal cities.  In  1840  there  were  scarcely  ten  thousand 
Jews,  and  not  more  than  a dozen  congregations  in  the 
United  States.  Their  synagogues  now  number  two  hun- 
dred and  fifty.  The  Conservative  ministry  is  not  strong. 
Only  recently  has  any  active  interest  been  displayed  in 
the  higher  Hebrew  education,  the  preparation  of  can- 
didates for  clerical  stations.  Maimonidcs  College,  es- 
tablished in  1866  at  Philadelphia,  has  not  been  suc- 
cessful in  the  number  of  students,  although  its  faculty 
is  scholarly  and  energetic.  The  Conservative  pulpit  is 
ably  supplied  in  several  synagogues  of  New  York,  Phil- 
adelphia, and  New  Orleans.  In  other  cities  the  leading 
scholars  are  of  the  progressive  dr  Reform  school. 

The  policy  of  Conservative  American  Israelites  does 
not  favor  ecclesiastical  authority.  Occasionally  efforts 
have  been  made  to  perfect  a union  of  synagogues,  but 
they  have  uniformly  failed  when  doctrinal  or  ritual 
questions  were  the  points  to  be  determined  in  conven- 
tion. The  tendency  is  clearly  in  favor  of  independent 
synagogues,  united  for  purposes  of  a charitable,  educa- 
tional, or  semi-political  character — otherwise  recognising 
no  will  or  exposition  of  Jewish  doctrine  superior  to  that 
of  their  respective  ministers  or  secular  officials.  The 
co-operative  movements  for  aiding  oppressed  Israelites 
in  foreign  countries,  and  for  repressing  anticipated  dan- 
ger or  checking  legal  discriminations  at  home,  result- 
ing in  the  establishment  of  the  “ Board  of  Delegates  of 
American  Israelites,”  are  not  confined  to  the  Conserva- 
tive or  to  the  Progressive  congregations.  Doctrinal 
questions  are  eschewed  in  this  organization,  which  is 
purely  voluntary,  and  assumes  no  authority  except  what 
may  be  delegated  from  time  to  time  to  interpret  the 
sentiments  of  American  Israelites. 

The  Conservatives  have  of  late  years  paid  attention 
to  religious  education.  Elementary  schools  are  attach- 
ed to  most  congregations,  and  in  New  York  a society 
was  formed  in  1865  for  the  gratuitous  instruction  in  He- 
brew and  in  English  of  children  whose  parents  are  not 
attached  to  any  synagogue,  or  are  unable  to  contribute 
to  its  support.  (M.  S.  I.) 

JUDAISM,  REFORMED,  also  called  progressive  or 
modern  Judaism,  is  the  Jewish  religion  as  reformed  in 
the  I9tli  century  in  Germany,  Austria,  America,  and  in 
some  congregations  of  France  and  England.  The  places 
of  worship  are  called  temples,  distinguished  from  other 
Jewish  synagogues  by  choir,  organ,  regular  sermons,  and 
part  of  the  liturgy  in  the  vernacular  of  the  country,  and 
in  America  also  by  family  pews.  The  ministers  of  these 
temples  are  rabbis  who  have  attained  proficiency  in 
Hebrew  lore,  and  are  graduates  of  colleges  or  universi- 
ties; or  preachers  by  the  choice  of  the  congregation, 
who  are  mostly  autodedactic  students ; and  cantors,  ca- 
pable of  reading  the  divine  sendee  and  leading  the  choir. 
In  some  congregations  the  offices  of  preacher  and  cantor 
are  united  in  one  person.  Large  congregations  are  con- 
ducted by  the  ordained  rabbi  and  the  cantor:  the  for- 
mer is  the  expounder  of  the  law,  and  the  latter  presides 
over  the  w'orship,  and  is  also  called  Ifazan , or  Reader 
(q.  v.).  Every  congregation  elects  secular  officers  to 
conduct  the  temporal  affairs.  The  ministers  are  elected 
by  the  congregation  for  a stated  period.  A school  for 


instruction  in  religion,  Hebrew,  and  Jewish  history  is 
attached  to  every  temple.  Like  all  other  Jews,  the  re- 
formed also  are  Unitarian  in  theology,  and  acknowledge 
the  Old-Testament  Scriptures  as  the  divine  source  of 
law  and  doctrine,  but  reject  the  additional  author- 
ity of  the  Talmud,  in  place  of  which  they  appeal  to 
reason  and  conscience  as  the  highest  authority  in  ex- 
pounding the  Scriptures.  They  believe  in  the  immor- 
tality of  the  soul,  future  reward  and  punishment,  the 
perfectibility  of  human  nature,  the  final  and  universal 
triumph  of  truth  and  righteousness.  They  reject  the 
belief  in  the  coming  of  a Messiah  ; the  gathering  of  the 
Hebrew  people  to  Palestine  to  form  a separate  govern- 
ment, and  to  restore  the  ancient  polity  of  animal  sacri- 
fices and  the  Levitical  priesthood;  the  resurrection  of 
the  body  and  the  last  judgment  day;  and  the  authority 
of  the  Talmud  above  any  other  collection  of  commenta- 
ries to  the  Bible.  All  these  doctrines  are  expressed  in 
their  prayer-books  and  catechisms.  Their  hermeneu- 
tics is  rationalistic.  They  reject  the  evidence  of  mira- 
cles, relying  exclusively  upon  the  internal  evidence  of 
the  Scriptures,  and  the  common  consent  of  all  civilized 
nations  to  the  divinity  of  the  scriptural  laws  and  doc- 
trines. Except  in  the  case  of  Moses,  of  whom  the 
Scriptures  testify,  “ Mouth  to  mouth  I speak  unto  him,” 
the  appearance  and  speaking  of  angels,  as  also  the  ap- 
pearance and  speaking  of  God,  were  subjective,  in  the 
vision,  waking  or  dreaming,  appearing  objectively  to 
the  prophet,  which  was  not  the  case  in  reality.  In 
this  respect  they  follow  the  guide  of  Moses  Maimonides. 
See  Philosophy,  Theological,  of  the  Jews.  In  re- 
spect to  doctrine,  they  hold  that  all  religious  doctrines 
must  be  taken  from  the  Bible,  and  must  be  in  harmony 
witl>the  loftiest  and  purest  conceptions  of  the  Deity  and 
humanity  suggested  by  the  Scriptures,  and  confirmed  by 
reason  and  conscience.  In  respect  to  law,  they  hold  that 
all  laws  contained  in  the  Decalogue,  expressed  or  im- 
plied, are  obligatory  forever,  both  in  letter  or  spirit. 
All  laws  not  contained  in  the  Decalogue,  expressed  or 
implied,  are  local  and  temporal  (although  the  principle 
expressed  by  some  may  be  eternal)  and  could  have  been 
intended  for  certain  times  and  localities  only.  These 
theories  of  Judaism  were  developed  by  various  Jewish 
authors  between  the  years  1000  and  1500;  partly  they 
are  also  in  the  ancient  Rabbinical  literature,  but  were 
dropped  after  1500,  and  taken  up  again  by  the  disciples 
and  successors  of  Moses  Mendelssohn  toward  the  close 
of  the  last  century,  and  gradually  developed  to  the  pres- 
ent sj'stem.  (I.  M.  \V.) 

From  a few  late  articles  in  the  Israelite  (Nov.,  1871), 
by  the  distinguished  writer  of  the  above  article  on  Re- 
formed Judaism , we  learn  that  he  regards  as  the  first 
reformer  in  the  camp  of  Judaism  the  celebrated  gaon 
Saadia  (q.  v.)  ben-Joseph,  of  Favum,  who  flourished  in 
the  first  half  of  the  10th  century;  as  the  second,  the 
famous  body-physician  of  the  caliph  of  Cairo,  Rambam, 
“ the  classical  Moses  Maimonides.”  Of  perhaps  minor 
influence,  but  also  as  active  in  the  field  of  reform,  he 
introduces  us  next  to  Bechai  ben-Joseph,  of  Saragossa, 
and  Ibn-Gebirol  (q.  v.),  of  Malaga,  who  flourished  in 
the  11th  century.  He  even  counts  among  the  reform- 
ers the  celebrated  French  rabbi  Isaac,  of  Troyes,  better 
known  under  the  surname  of  Rashi  (q.  v.) ; and  on 
the  side  of  reform  or  progressive  Judaism  are  also  rank- 
ed by  Dr.  Wise  the -celebrated  Jewish  savants  Judah 
ha- Levy  (q.  v.),  Aben-Ezra  (q.  v.),  and  Abraham  ben- 
David,  the  celebrated  author  of  the  Emmeah  Ramah 
(Exalted  Faith),  who  fell  a victim  to  fanaticism  in  A.D. 
11K0  at  Toledo,  in  Spain,  and  with  whom  close  up  the 
two  centuries  that  elapsed  between  the  appearance  of 
Saadia  and  Maimonides,  in  which  days  “ all  [Jewish] 
philosophy  had  become  peripatetic,”  the  Jewish  phil- 
osophical writers  of  this  period  considering  their  main 
object  ‘‘the  self-defence  of  Judaism  on  the  one  hand, 
and  the  expounding  of  the  Bible  and  Talmud  as  ration- 
al as  possible,  in  order  to  reconcile  and  harmonize  faith 
and  reason.” 


JUDAS 


JUDAIZING  CHRISTIANS  1000 


With  the  13th  century  undoubtedly  opens  a new 
epoch  in  Judaism,  for  it  is  here  tliat.  we  encounter  the 
jrreat  Jewish  master  mind  Closes  3Iaimonides,  of  whom 
it  has  been  truly  said  that  “from  Moses  [the  lawgiver] 
to  Moses  [Mendelssohn]  there  was  none  like  Moses 
[Maimonides] Since  the  days  of  Ezra,  no  man  has 
exerted  so  deep,  universal,  and  lasting  an  influence  on 
Jews  and  Judaism  as  this  man,  and  we  need  not  wonder 
tliat  Orthodox,  Conservative,  and  Reformed  Jews  alike 
lav  claim  to  this  master  mind;  but  it  must  be  con- 
fessed that,  after  all,  he  really  belongs  to  the  Progressive 
Jews  onlv.  It  is  true  the  erced  drawn  up  by  the  second 
Moses  is  now  the  possession  of  all  Jews,  and  the  Orthodox 
cling  to  it  with  even  more  tenacity  than  the  Conserv- 
atives and  the  Reformed,  but  his  theologieo-philosophi- 
eal  works  gained  authority  mainly  among  the  Reformed 
thinkers  of  the  Jiulaistic  faith.  After  that  date,  of 
course,  Jewish  literature  abounds  with  names  whose  pro- 
ductions betray  a rationalistic  tendency,  for  “all  Jewish 
thinkers  up  to  (late,  Baruch  Spinoza,  Moses  Mendels- 
sohn, and  the  writers  of  the  10th  century  included,  are 
more  or  less  the  disciples  of  Maimonides,  so  that  no 
Jewish  theologico-philosophical  hook,  from  and  after 
1200,  can  be  picked  up  in  which  the  ideas  of  Maimoni- 
des  do  not  form  a prominent  part.”  I n our  own  days  the 
Reform  movement  first  became  very  prominent.  In  Ger- 
many, where  Judaism  has  always  been  strong  on  account 
of  the  high  literary  attainments  of  the  German  Jews, 
the  separation  between  the  Orthodox  and  Reformed,  and 
the  establishment  of  independent  Reformed  congrega- 
tions first  originated,  and  the  celebrated  Holdheim  (q. 
v.)  was  among  the  first  as  pastor  of  a temple  in  1846. 
Other  Jewish  rabbis  of  note,  identified  with  the  Reform 
movement  in  Germany,  are  Stein,  of  Frankfurt-on-the- 
Mainc ; Einhorn,  now  of  New  York  City;  Deutsch,  now 
of  Baltimore,  Md. ; and  Ritter,  the  successor  of  Holdheim, 
and  historian  of  the  Reform  agitation.  In  the  U.  States 
those  prominently  identified  with  the  Reform  ques- 
tion are  Drs.  Adler  and  Gutheim,  of  the  Fifth  Avenue 
Temple,  New  York  City;  Mr.  Ellinger,  editor  of  the  Jew- 
ish Times,  New  York  City;  Dr.  Lewin,  of  Brooklyn,  ed- 
itor of  the  Xew  Era;  Dr.  Isaac  31.  Wise,  editor  of  the 
Israelite,  etc.  See  Jost,  Gesch.  des  Judenthmis  u.  s.  Sek- 
tev,  iii,349  sq. ; Gratz , Gesch.  d.Juden,  x;  Ritter,  Gesch. 
d.jiid.  Reformation  (Berlin,  3 vols.  8vo);  Geiger,  Juda- 
ism and  its  History,  Engl,  trails,  by  31. 31aver  (N.  Y.  1870, 
8vo) ; Astruc  (the  grand  rabbi  of  Belgium),  Ilistoire 
abreye,  des  Juifs  et  de  lear  croyance  (Paris,  18G9) ; Ra- 
phael, D.  G.  Lewin,  What  is  Judaism  (N.  Y.  1871, 12mo) ; 
Xew  Era,  3Iav,  1871,  art.  i ; Brit,  and  For.  Evany.  Rev. 
April,  18(59 ; Kitto,  Joimi.  Sac.  Literature,  viii ; A tlantic 
Monthly,  Oct.  1870;  and  the  works  eited  in  the  article 
Jews.  (J.II.W.) 

Judaizing  Christians,  a term  frequently  em- 
ployed to  designate  a class  of  early  Christians,  of  whom 
traces  appear  in  the  N.-T.  epistles,  and  still  more  dis- 
tinctly in  the  succeeding  century.  They  are  believed 
to  have  been  converts  from  Judaism,  who  still  clung  to 
the  31osaic  institutions,  particularly  circumcision.  They 
appear  to  have  been  of  two  classes,  some  considering 
the  ceremonial  law  as  binding  only  upon  Christians  de- 
scended from  the  Jews,  while  others  looked  upon  it  as 
obligatory  also  for  the  heathen.  The  head-quarters  of 
the  Judaizing  Christians  is  said  to  have  been  first  at 
Antioch.  1 lie  council  held  at  Jerusalem  decided  that 
the  heathen  should  not  be  subject  to  circumcision.  The 
more  zealous  Judaizing  Christians,  thus  opposed  by  the 
apostles,  abandoned  Palestine,  and  went  about  trying  to 
couvert  the  heathen  to  their  views,  but  with  little  sue- 
{***•  They  were  probably  the  “ false  apostles,”  persons 
•brought  in  unawares,”  etc.,  so  often  mentioned  bv 
Paul,  and  are  known  in  history,  the  more  moderate  as 
, zakknks  Oh  v.),  the  others  as  Ebioxites  (q.  v.). 

See  D.  van  Ileyst,  I)e  Jud.  Christumismo  (1828) Pi*e- 

-'er,  Universal  Lexikon,  ix,  159. 

Ju'das  (loveae),  the  Graecizcd  form  of  the  Hebrew 


name  Judah,  and  generally  retained  in  the  A.  Y.  of  the 
Apocrypha  and  N.  T.,  as  also  in  Josephus,  where  it  oc- 
curs of  a considerable  number  of  men.  See  also  J uda  ; 
Jude. 

1.  The  patriarch  Judah  (q.v.),  son  of  Jacob  (3Iatt. 

i,  2,  3). 

2.  One  of  the  Levites  who  renounced  his  Gentile 
wife  after  the  captivity  (1  Esdr.  ix,  23) ; the  J udah  of 
Ezra  x,  23. 

3.  The  third  son  of  3Iattathias,  and  the  leading  one 
of  the  three  31aceabtean  brothers  (l  3Iacc.  ii,  4,  etc.). 
See  3Iaccabees. 

4.  The  son  of  Calphi  (Alpha; us),  a Jewish  general 
under  Jonathan  3Iaecabajus  (1  3Iace.  xi,  70). 

5.  A Jew  occupying  a conspicuous  position  at  Jeru- 
salem at  the  time  of  the  mission  to  Aristobtilus  (q.  v.) 
and  the  Egyptian  Jews  (2  3Iace.  i,  10).  He  is  thought 
by  some  to  have  been  the  same  with 

6.  An  aged  person,  and  a noted  teacher  among  the 
Esscnes  at  Jerusalem,  famous  for  his  art  of  predicting 
events,  which  was  confirmed  in  a remarkable  manner 
by  the  death  of  Antigonus  (q.  v.)  at  the  order  of  his 
brother  Aristobulus,  as  related  by  Josephus  (J  id.  xiii, 
11,2;  War,  i,  3,  5). 

7.  A son  of  Simon,  and  brother  of  John  Hyrcanus  (1 
3Iace.  xvi,  2),  murdered  by  Ptolemteus  the  usurper, 
either  at  the  same  time  (B.C.  eir.  135)  with  his  father 
(1  3Iacc.  xvi,  15  sq.),  or  shortly  afterwards  (Josephus, 
Ant.  xiii,  8,  1;  see  Grimm,  ad  Mace.  1.  c.). — Smith. 

8.  Son  of  one  Ezeehias  (which  latter  was  famous  for 
his  physical  strength),  and  one  of  the  three  principal 
bandits  mentioned  by  Josephus  (Ant.  xvii,  10,  2;  War, 

ii,  4, 1)  as  infesting  Palestine  in  the  early  days  of  Herod. 
This  person,  whom  Whitson  (ad  loe.)  regards  as  the 
Theudas  (q.  v.)  of  Luke  (Acts  x,  3G),  temporarily  got 
possession  of  Sepphoris,  in  Galilee.  What  became  of 
him  does  not  particularly  appear,  hut  it  may  be  pre- 
sumed he  shared  the  fate  of  the  others  named  in  the 
same  connection. 

9.  Son  of  one  Sariphanis,  or  Sepphoris,  and  one  of  the 
two  eminent  Jewish  teachers  who  incited  their  young 
disciples  to  demolish  the  golden  eagle  erected  by  Ilcrod 
over  the  Temple  gate,  an  act  of  sedition  for  which  the 
whole  party  were  burned  alive  (Josephus,  Ant.  xvii,  G, 
2-4;  War,  i,  33,  2-4). 

10.  A person  suniamed  “ the  Galilean1'  (o  roXtAfrioc, 
Acts  v,  37),  so  ealled  also  by  Josephus  (.1  nt.  xviii,  1,  G; 
xx,  5,  2;  War,  ii,  8, 1),  and  likewise  “ the  Gaulonite ” (o 
Tav\ovm]Q,  Ant.  xviii,  1, 1 ).  lie  was  born  at  Gamala, 
a fortified  city  on  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  in  Lower  Gauloni- 
tis;  and  after  the  deposition  of  Archelaus,  during  the 
thirty-seventh  year  after  the  battle  of  Aetiuni  (Jose- 
phus, Ant.  xviii,  2,  1),  i.  e.  A.D.  G,  he  excited  a violent 
insurrection  among  the  Jews,  in  concert  with  a well- 
known  Pharisee  named  Sadok,  against  the  Roman  gov- 
ernment exercised  by  the  procurator  Coponius,  on  occa- 
sion of  a census  levied  by  the  emperor  Augustus,  assert- 
ing the  popular  doctrine  that  the  Jews  ought  to  acknowl- 
edge no  dominion  hut  that  of  God.  lie  was  destroyed, 
and  his  followers  scattered  by  Cvrenius,  then  proconsul 
of  Syria  and  Judaea.  We  also  learn  from  Josephus  that 
the  scattered  remnant  of  the  party  of  Judas  continued 
after  his  destruction  to  work  on  still  in  secret,  and  la- 
bored to  maintain  his  free  spirit  and  reckless  principles 
among  the  people  (Josephus,  War,  ii,  17,  7-19).  (See 
E.  A.  Schulze,  Dissei't.  de  Juda  Galilmo  ejusque  sect  a, 
Frankf.  a.  Y.  1761;  also  in  his  Exercit.  philosoph.  fuse, 
non.  p.  104.)  See  Sicarii. 

11.  Son  of  Simon  (John  vi,  71;  xiii,  2, 26),  surnamed 
(always  in  the  other  Gospels)  Iscariot,  to  distinguish 
him  from  the  other  apostle  of  the  same  name.  See 
Jude.  In  the  following  account  we  largely  avail  our- 
selves of  the  articles  on  the  subject  in  the  dictionaries 
of  Smith  and  Fairbairn. 

1.  Siynification  of  the  Surname. — The  epithet  Iseariot 
(’I<7h-(ipiwrjje)  has  received  many  interpretations  more 
or  less  conjectural. 


JUDAS 


10G1 


JUDAS 


(1)  From  Kerioth  (Josh,  xv,  25),  in  the  tribe  of  Ju- 

dah, the  Heb.  PY^p  12  Ish-Kerioth',  passing  into 
‘loicapiuTtiQ  in  the  same  way  as  — Ish-Tob, 

“ a man  of  Tob” — appears  in  Josephus  (.-In/,  vii,  6,  1)  as 
"loriofiogi  In  connection  with  this  explanation  may 
be  noticed  the  reading  of  some  MSS.  in  John  vi,  71,  onto 
KaniwTOV,  and  that  received  by  Lachmann  and  Tisch- 
endorf,  which  makes  the  name  Iscariot  belong  to  Simon, 
and  not,  as  elsewhere,  to  Judas  only.  On  this  hypoth- 
esis, his  position  among  the  Twelve,  the  rest  of  whom 
belonged  to  Galilee  (Acts  ii,  7),  would  be  exceptional; 
and  this  is  perhaps  an  additional  reason  why  this  local- 
ity is  noted.  This  is  the  most  common  and  probable 
opinion.  See  Kerioth. 

(2)  From  Kartha  (A.  V.  “ Kartan,”  Josh,  xxi,  32),  in 
Galilee  (so  Ewald,  Gesck.  Israels , v,  321). 

(3)  As  equivalent  to  Issacharite , or  ’laaxapuuTijQ 
(Grotius  on  Matt,  x,  4;  Hermann,  Miscell.  (Ironing,  iii, 
598). 

(4)  From  the  date-trees  (icapuaTtdee)  in.  the  neigh- 
borhood of  Jerusalem  or  Jericho  (Bartolocci,  Bill.  Rab- 
bin. iii,  10 ; Gill,  Comm,  on  Matt,  x,  4). 

(5)  From  fcf  -lipOX  (=scortca,  Gill,  l.  c.),  a leath- 
ern apron , the  name  being  applied  to  him  as  the  bearer 
of  the  bag,  and  =“  Judas  with  the  apron”  (Lightfoot, 
Ilor.  Ueb.  in  Matt,  x,  4). 

(6)  From  X“COX,  ascara = strangling  (angina),  as 
given  after  his  death,  and  commemorating  it  (Light- 
foot,  l.  c.)}  or  indicating  that  he  had  been  subject  to  a 
disease  tending  to  suffocation  previously  (Heinsius,  in 
Suicer,  Thes.  s.  v.  ’lovdac).  This  is  mentioned  also  as  a 
meaning  of  the  name  by  Origen,  Tract,  in  Matt.  xxxv. 

2.  Personal  Notices. — Of  the  life  of  Judas,  before  the 
appearance  of  his  name  in  the  lists  of  the  apostles,  we 
know  absolutely  nothing.  It  must  be  left  to  the  sad 
vision  of  a poet  (Iveble,  Lyra  Innocentium,  ii,  13)  or  the 
fantastic  fables  of  an  apocryphal  Gospel  (Tbilo,  Cod. 
A poc.  N.  T.,  Evang.  Infant,  c.  35)  to  portray  the  infancy 
and  youth  of  the  traitor.  His  call  as  an  apostle  im- 
plies, however,  that  he  had  previously  declared  him- 
self a disciple.  He  was  drawn,  as  the  others  were,  by 
the  preaching  of  the  Baptist,  or  his  own  Messianic 
hopes,  or  the  “ gracious  words”  of  the  new  teacher,  to 
leave  his  former  life,  and  to  obey  the  call  of  the  Prophet 
of  Nazareth.  What  baser  and  more  selfish  motives 
may  have  mingled  even  then  with  his  faith  and  zeal 
we  can  only  judge  by  reasoning  backwards  from  the  se- 
quel. Gifts  of  some  kind  there  must  have  been,  ren- 
dering the  choice  of  such  a man  not  strange  to  others, 
not  unfit  in  itself,  and  the  function  which  he  exercised 
afterwards  among  the  Twelve  may  indicate  what  they 
were.  The  position  of  his  name,  uniformly  the  last  in 
the  lists  of  the  apostles  in  the  Synoptic  Gospels,  is  due, 
it  may  be  imagined,  to  the  infamy  which  afterwards 
rested  on  his  name,  but,  prior  to  that  guilt,  it  would 
seem  that  he  externally  differed  in  no  marked  particu- 
lar from  the  other  apostles,  and  he  doubtless  exercised 
the  same  mission  of  preaching  and  miracles  as  the  rest 
(Matt,  x,  4;  xxvi,  14-47;  Mark  iii,  19;  xiv,  10,  43; 
Luke  vi,  16;  xxii,  3,  47,  48;  John  vi,  71;  xii,  4;  xiii, 
2,  26;  xiv,  22;  xviii,  2,  3).  A.D.  27. 

The  germs  (see  Stier’s  Words  of  Jesus , at  the  passa- 
ges where  Judas  is  mentioned)  of  the  evil,  in  all  likeli- 
hood, unfolded  themselves  gradually.  The  rides  to 
which  the  Twelve  were  subject  in  their  first  journey 
(Matt,  x,  9,  10)  sheltered  him  from  the  temptation  that 
would  have  been  most  dangerous  to  him.  The  new 
form  of  life,  of  which  we  find  the  traces  in  Luke  viii,  3, 
brought  that  temptation  with  it.  As  soon  as  the  Twelve 
were  recoguised  as  a body,  travelling  hither  and  thither 
with  their  Master,  receiving  money  and  other  offerings, 
and  redistributing  what  they  received  to  the  poor,  it 
became  necessary  that  some  one  should  act  as  the  stew- 
ard and  almoner  of  the  small  society,  and  this  fell  to 
Judas  (John  xii,  6;  xiii,  29),  either  as  having  the  gifts 
that  qualified  him  for  it,  or,  as  we  may  conjecture,  from 


his  character,  because  he  sought  it,  or,  as  some  have 
imagined,  in  rotation  from  time  to  time.  The  Galilean 
or  Judaean  peasant  (we  have  no  reason  for  thinking  that 
his  station  differed  from  that  of  the  other  apostles)  found 
himself  intrusted  with  larger  sums  of  money  than  before 
(the  three  hundred  denarii  of  John  xii,  5 are  spoken  of 
as  a sum  which  he  might  reasonably  have  expected), 
and  with  this  there  came  covetousness,  unfaithfulness, 
embezzlement.  It  was^  impossible  after  this  that  he 
could  feel  at  ease  with  one  who  asserted  so  clearly  and 
sharply  the  laws  of  faithfulness,  duty,  unselfishness;  and 
the  words  of  Jesus,  “Have  I not  chosen  yon  Twelve, 
and  one  of  you  is  a devil?”  (John  vi,  70)  indicate  that 
even  then,  though  the  greed  of  immediate  or  the  hope 
of  larger  gain  kept  him  from  “going  back,”  as  others 
did  (John  vi,  66),  hatred  was  taking  the  place  of  love, 
and  leading  him  on  to  a fiendish  malignity.  The  scene 
at  Bethany  (John  xii,  1-9 ; Matt,  xxvi,  6-13 ; Mark  xiv, 
3-9)  showed  how  deeply  the  canker  had  eaten  into  his 
soul.  The  warm  outpouring  of  love  calls  forth  no  sym- 
pathy. He  utters  himself,  and  suggests  to  others,  the 
complaint  that  it  is  a waste.  Under  the  plea  of  caring 
for  the  poor  he  covers  his  own  miserable  theft. 

The  narrative  of  Matt,  xvi,  Mark  xiv,  places  this  his- 
tory in  close  connection  (apparently  in  order  of  time) 
with  the  fact  of  the  betrayal.  During  the  days  that 
intervened  between  the  supper  at  Bethany  and  the  pas- 
chal or  quasi-paschal  gathering,  he  appeared  to  have 
concealed  his  treachery.  He  went  with  the  other  dis- 
ciples to  and  fro  from  Bethany  to  Jerusalem,  and  looked 
on  the  acted  parable  of  the  barren  and  condemned  tree 
(Mark  xi,  20-24),  and  shared  the  vigils  in  Gethsemane 
(John  xviii,  2).  At  the  beginning  of  the  Last  Supper  he 
is  present,  looking  forward  to  the  consummation  of  his 
guilt  as  drawing  nearer  every  hour.  All  is  at  first  as  if 
he  were  still  faithful.  He  is  admitted  to  the  feast.  His 
feet  are  washed,  and  for  him  there  are  the  fearful  words, 
“Ye  are  clean,  but  not  all.”  At  some  point  during  the 
meal  (seebeknv)  come  the  sorrowful  words  which  show- 
ed him  that  his  design  was  known.  “ One  of  you  shall 
betray  me.”  Others  ask,  in  their  sorrow  and  confusion, 
“Is  it  1?”  He,  too,  must  ask  the  same  question,  lest 
he  should  seem  guilty  (Matt,  xxvi,  25).  He  alone  hears 
the  answer.  John  only,  and  through  him  Peter,  and 
the  traitor  himself,  understand  the  meaning  of  the  act 
which  pointed  out  that  lie  was  the  guilty  one  (John 
xiii,  26).  After  this  there  comes  on  him  that  paroxysm 
and  insanity  of  guilt  as  of  one  whose  human  soul  was 
possessed  by  the  Spirit  of  Evil — “ Satan  entered  into 
him”  (John  xiii,  27).  The  words,  “ What  thou  doest, 
do  quickly,”  come  as  a spur  to  drive  him  on.  The  other 
disciples  see  in  them  only  a command  which  they  inter- 
pret as  connected  with  the  work  he  had  hitherto  under- 
taken. Then  he  completes  the  sin  from  which  even 
those  words  might  have  drawn  him  back.  He  knows 
that  garden  in  which  his  Master  and  his  companions 
had  so  often  rested  after  the  weary  work  of  the  day. 
He  comes,  accompanied  by  a band  of  officers  and  ser- 
vants (John  xviii,  3),  with  the  kiss  which  was  probably 
the  usual  salutation  of  the  disciples.  The  words  of  Je- 
sus, calm  and  gentle  as  they  were,  showed  that  this  was 
what  embittered  the  treachery,  and  made  the  suffering 
it  inflicted  more  acute  (Luke  xxii,  48). 

What  followed  in  the  confusion  of  that  night  the 
Gospels  do  not  record.  Not  many  students  of  the  N.  T. 
will  follow  Heumaiin  and  archbishop  Whatelv  ( Essays 
on  Dangers)  in  the  hypothesis  that  Judas  was  “ the 
other  disciple”  that  was  known  to  the  high-priest,  and 
brought  Peter  in  (comp.  Meyer  on  John  xviii,  15).  It 
is  probable  enough,  indeed,  that  he  who  had  gone  out 
with  the  high-priest’s  officers  should  return  with  them 
to  wait  the  issue  of  the  trial.  Then,  when  it  >vas  over, 
came  the  reaction.  The  fever  of  the  crime  passed  away. 
There  came  back  on  him  the  recollection  of  the  sinless 
righteousness  of  the  Master  he  had  wronged  (Matt, 
xxvir,  3).  He  feels  a keen  remorse,  and  the  gold  that 
had  tempted  him  to  it  becomes  hateful.  He  will  get 


1062 


JUDAS 


JUDAS 


ri*l  of  the  accursed  thing:,  will  transfer  it  back  again  to 
those  who  with  it  had  lured  hint  on  to  destruction. 
They  mock  and  sneer  at  the  tool  whom  they  have  used, 
and  then  there  comes  over  him  the  horror  of  great 
darkness  that  precedes  self-murder.  He  has  owned  his 
sin  with  “ an  exceeding  bitter  cry.”  but  he  dares  not 
turn,  with  any  hope  of  pardon,  to  the  Master  whom  he 
has  betrayed.  He  hurls  the  money,  which  the  priests 
refused  to  take,  into  the  sanctuary  ( vaoi ;)  where  they 
were  assembled.  I-or  him  there  is  no  longer  sacrifice  or 
propitiation,  lie  is  “the  son  of  perdition”  (John  xvii, 
12).  “He  departed,  and  went  and  hanged  himself” 
(Matt,  xxvii,  5).  He  went  “ unto  his  own  place”  (Acts 
i,  25).  A.D.  20.  See  below. 

With  the  exception  of  the  stories  already  mentioned, 
There  are  but  few  traditions  that  gather  round  the  name 
of  Judas.  It  appears,  however,  in  a strange,  hardly  in- 
telligible way  in  the  history  of  the  wilder  heresies  of 
the  2d  century.  The  sect  of  Cainites,  consistent  in  their 
inversion  of  all  that  Christians  in  general  believed,  was 
reported  to  have  honored  him  as  the  only  apostle  that 
was  in  possession  of  the  true  gnosis,  to  have  made  him 
the  object  of  their  worship,  and  to  have  had  a gospel 
bearing  his  name  (comp.  Neander,  Church  Hist,  ii,  153; 
Ireiueus,  adv.  liar,  i,  35;  Tertullian,  De  Prase,  e.  47). 
For  the  apocryphal  gospel  (Epiphanius,  liar,  xxxviii, 
1),  see  Fabricius,  Codex.  Apocr.  i,  352.  See  Gospels, 
Spluious. 

3.  Our  Lord's  Object  in  his  Selection  as  an  Apostle. — 
The  choice  was  not  made,  we  must  remember,  without 
a prevision  of  its  issue.  “ Jesus  knew  from  the  begin- 
ning . . . who  should  betray  him”  (John  vi,  04);  and 
the  distinctness  with  which  that  evangelist  records  the 
successive  stages  of  the  guilt  of  Judas,  and  his  Master’s 
discernment  of  it  (John  xii,  4 ; xiii,  2,  27),  leaves  ■with 
ns  the  impression  that  he,  too,  shrank  instinctively 
(Bengel  describes  it  as  “ singulars  antipatliia,”  Gnomon 
X.  Test,  on  John  vi.  04)  from  a nature  so  opposite  to  his 
own.  We  can  har  dy  expect  fully  to  solve  the  question 
why  such  a man  was  chosen  for  such  an  office,  nor  is  it 
onr  province  to  sound  all  the  depths  of  the  divine  pur- 
poses, yet  we  mav,  without  presumption,  raise  ail  in- 
quiry on  this  subject. 

(1.)  Some,  on  the  ground  of  God’s  absolute  fore- 
knowledge, content  themselves  with  saying,  with  Cal- 
vin, that  the  judgments  of  God  are  as  a great  deep,  and 
with  Ulhnann  ( Siindlosigk . Jesu , p.  97),  that  Judas  was 
chosen  in  order  that  the  divine  purpose  might  be  ac- 
complished through  him.  See  I ’keuesti  nation. 

(2. ) ( ) tli era,  less  dogmatic  in  their  views,  believe, 
with  Neander  (Leben  Jesu,  § 77),  that  there  was  a dis- 
cernment of  the  latent,  germs  of  evil,  such  as  belonged 
to  the  Son  of  Man,  in  his  insight  into  the  hearts  of  nieu 
(J°hn  ii,  25;  Matt,  ix,  4;  Mark  xii,  15),  yet  not  such 
as  to  exclude  emotions  of  sudden  sorrow  or  anger  (Mark 
iii.  5),  or  astonishment  (Mark  vi,  G;  Luke  vii,  9),  ad- 
mitting the  thought  “with  men  this  is  impossible,  but 
not  with  God.”  Did  he,  in  the  depth  of  that  insight, 
and  in  the  fulness  of  his  compassion,  seek  to  overcome 
the  evil  which,  if  not  conquered,  would  he  so  fatal?  It 
gives,  at  any  rate,  a new  meaning  and  force  to  many 
parts  of  our  Lord’s  teaching  to  remember  that  they  must 
have  been  spoken  in  the  hearing  of  Judas,  and  mav 
have  been  designed  to  make  him  conscious  of  his  dan- 
ger. I he  warnings  as  to  the  impossibility  of  a service 
divided  between  God  and  mammon  (Matt,  vi,  19-34), 
and  the  destructive  power  of  the  “cares  of  this  world,” 
and  the  “deeeitfulness  of  riches"  (Matt.  xii.  22, 23),  the 
pointed  words  that  spoke  of  the  guilt  of  unfaithfulness 
in  the  “ unrighteous  mammon”  (Luke  xvi,  11),  the.  prov- 
erb of  the  camel  passing  through  the  needle’s  eye  (Mark 
x,  25),  must  have  fallen  on  his  heart  as  meant  specially 
for  him.  lie  was  among  those  who  asked  the  question, 
'\  ho,  then,  can  he  saved?  (Mark  x,  20).  Of  him,  too, 
we  may  say  that,  when  he  sinned,  lie  was  “kicking 
against  the  pricks,”  letting  slip  his  “calling  and  elec” 
tion,”  frustrating  the  purpose  of  Ins  Master  in  giving 


him  so  high  a work,  and  educating  him  for  it  (compare 
Chrysostom,  Horn,  on  Matt,  xxvi,  xxvii,  John  vi). 

(3.)  But  to  most  persons  these  will  appear  to  be  arbi- 
trary or  recondite  arguments.  Important  reasons  of  a 
more  practical  kind,  we  may  be  sure,  were  not  wanting 
for  the  procedure,  and  they  are  not  very  far  to  seek. 
The  presence  of  such  a false  friend  in  the  company  of 
his  immediate  disciples  was  needed,  first  of  all,  to  com- 
plete the  circle  of  Christ’s  trials  and  temptations.  He 
could  not  otherwise  have  known  by  personal  experience 
some  of  the  sharpest  wounds  inflicted  by  human  per- 
verseness and  ingratitude,  nor  exhibited  liis  superiority 
to  the  evil  of  the  world  in  its  most  offensive  forms.  But 
for  the  deceit  and  treachery  of  Judas  he  woidd  not  have 
been  in  all  things  tempted  like  his  brethren.  Then 
thus  only  could  the  things  undergone  by  his  great  pro- 
totype David  find  their  proper  counterpart,  in  him  who 
was  to  enter  into  David’s  heritage,  and  raise  from  the 
dust  David’s  throne.  Of  the  things  written  in  the 
Psalms  concerning  him — written  there  as  derived  from 
the  depths'of  David’s  sore  experience  and  sharp  conflict 
with  evil,  but  destined  to  meet  again  in  a still  greater 
than  he — few  have  more  affecting  prominence  given  to 
them  than  those  which  relate  to  the  hardened  wicked- 
ness, base  treachery,  and  reprobate  condition  of  a false 
friend,  whose*  words  were  smooth  as  butter,  but  whose 
actions  were  drawn  swords,  who  ate  of  his  meat,  but  lift- 
ed up  the  heel  against  him  (comp.  Psa.xli,  9,  with  John 
xiii,  18 ; and  see  Ahitiiopiiel).  Other  prophecies  also, 
especially  two  in  Zechariali  (x,  12, 13 ; xiii,  G),  waited  for 
their  accomplishment  on  such  a course  of  ingratitude 
and  treachery  as  that  pursued  by  Judas.  Further,  the 
relation  in  which  this  false  but  ungenial  and  sharp- 
sighted  disciple  stood  to  the  rectitude  of  Jesus  afforded 
an  important  reason  for  his  presence  and  agency.  It 
was  well  that  those  who  stood  at  a greater  distance 
from  the  Saviour  failed  to  discover  any  fault  in  him ; 
that  none  of  them,  when  the  hour  of  trial  came,  could 
convict  him  of  sin,  though  the  most  watchful  inspec- 
tion had  been  exercised,  and  the  most  anxious  efforts 
had  been  made  to  enable  them  to  do  so.  But  it  was 
much  more  that  even  this  bosom  friend,  who  had  been 
privy  to  all  his  counsels,  and  had  seen  him  in  his  most 
unguarded  moments,  was  equally  incapable  of  finding 
any  evil  in  him ; he  could  betray  Jesus  to  his  enemies, 
but  he  coidd  furnish  these  enemies  with  no  proof  of  his 
criminality;  nay,  with  the  bitterness  of  death  in  his 
soul,  he  went  back  to  testify  to  them  that,  in  delivering 
up  Jesus,  he  had  betrayed  innocent  blood.  What  more 
conclusive  evidence  could  the  world  have  had  that  our 
Lord  was  indeed  without  spot  and  blameless?  Finally, 
the  appearance  of  such  a person  as  Judas  among  the 
immediate  attendants  of  Jesus  was  needed  as  an  exam- 
ple of  the  strength  of  human  depravity — how  it  can  lurk 
under  the  most  sacred  professions,  subsist  in  the  holiest 
company, live  and  grow  amid  the  clearest  light,  the  most 
solemn  warnings,  the  tenderest  entreaties,  and  the  divi- 
nest  works.  The  instruction  afforded  by  the  incarna- 
tion and  public  ministry  of  the  Son  of  God  would  not 
have  been  complete  without  such  a memorable  exhibi- 
tion by  its  side  of  the  darker  aspects  of  human  nature; 
the  Church  should  have  wanted  a portion  of  the  mate- 
rials required  for  her  future  warning  and  admonition : 
and  on  this  account  also  there  was  a valid  reason  for  the 
calling  of  one  who  could  act  the  shameful  part  of  Judas 
Iscariot. 

4.  Motives  of  Judas  in  the  Betrayal  of  his  Master. — 
The  Scripture  account  leaves  these  to  conjecture  (comp. 
Neander,  Leben  Jesu,  § 2G4).  The  mere  love  of  money 
may  have  been  strong  enough  to  make  him  clutch  at 
the  bribe  offered  him.  He  came,  it  may  be,  expecting 
more  (Matt,  xxvii,  15) ; lie  will  take  that.  lie  has  lost 
the  chance  of  dealing  with  the  three  hundred  denarii; 
it  will  be  something  to  get  the  thirty  shekels  as  his  own. 
It  may  have  been  that  he  felt  that  his  Master  saw 
through  his  hidden  guilt,  and  that  he  hastened  on  a 
crisis  to  avoid  the  shame  of  open  detection.  Mingled 


JUDAS 


1063 


JUDAS 


with  this  there  may  have  been  some  feeling  of  vindic-  j 
tiveness,  a vague,  confused  desire  to  show  that  he  had 
power  to  stop  the  career  of  the  teacher  who  had  re-  ! 
proved  him.  Had  the  words  that  spoke  of  “the  burial”  ' 
of  Jesus,  and  the  lukewarmness  of  the  people,  and  the 
conspiracies  of  the  priests,  led  him  at  last  to  see  that  | 
the  Messianic  kingdom  was  not  as  the  kingdoms  of  this  i 
world,  and  that  his  dream  of  power  and  wealth  to  be 
enjoyed  in  it  was  a delusion  V (Ewald,  Gesch.  Israels,  v, 
441-440).  There  may  have  been  the  thought  that,  af- 
ter all,  the  betrayal  coidd  do  no  harm,  that  his  Master 
would  prove  his  innocence,  or  by  some  supernatural 
manifestation  effect  his  escape  (Lightfoot,  I/or.  Heb.  p. 
880;  and  Whitby  on  Matt,  xxvii,  4).  Another  motive 
has  been  suggested  (compare  Ncander,  Lelxn  Jesu,  1.  c. ; 
and  Whately,  Essays  on  Dunrfers  to  Christian  Faith, 
discourse  iii)  of  an  entirely  different  kind,  altering  al- 
together the  character  of  the  act.  Not  the  love  of 
money,  nor  revenge,  nor  fear,  nor  disappointment,  but 
policy,  a subtle  plan  to  force  on  the  hour  of  the  triumph 
of  the  Messianic  kingdom,  the  belief  that  for  this  service 
he  would  receive  as  high  a place  as  Peter,  or  James,  or 
John — this  it  was  that  made  him  the  traitor.  If  he 
could  place  his  Master  in  a position  from  which  retreat 
would  be  impossible,  where  he  wrould  be  compelled  to 
throw  himself  on  the  people,  and  be  raised  by  them  to 
the  throne  of  his  father  David,  then  he  might  look  for- 
ward to  being  foremost  and  highest  in  that  kingdom, 
with  all  his  desires  for  wealth  and  power  gratified  to  the 
full.  Ingenious  as  this  hypothesis  is,  it  fails  for  that 
very  reason.  It  attributes  to  the  grovelling  peasant  a 
snbtlety  in  forecasting  political  combinations,  and  plan- 
ning stratagems  accordingly,  which  is  hardly  compati- 
ble with  his  character  and  learning,  hardly  consistent 
either  with  the  pettiness  of  the  faults  into  which  he  had 
hitherto  fallen.  It  is  characteristic  of  the  wide,  far- 
reaching  sympathy  of  Origen  that  he  suggests  another 
motive  for  the  suicide  of  Judas.  Despairing  of  pardon 
in  this  life,  he  would  rush  on  into  the  world  of  the  dead, 
and  there  (yvfivij  rtj  \Lvxy)  meet  his  Lord,  and  confess 
his  guilt,  and  ask  for  pardon  (Tract,  in  Matt,  xxxv; 
comp,  also  Theophanes,  Ilom.  xxvii,  in  Suieer,  Thes.  s. 
v.  ’lovdac).  Of  the  other  motives  that  have  been  as- 
signed we  need  not  care  to  fix  on  any  one  as  that  which 
singly  led  him  on.  Crime  is,  for  the  most  part,  the  re- 
sult of  a hundred  motives  rushing  with  bewildering  fury 
through  the  mind  of  the  criminal. 

5.  The  question  has  often  been  agitated  v’hether  Judas 
was  present  at  the  first  celebration  of  the  Lord’s  supper, 
or  left  the  assembly  before  the  institution  actually  took 
place  5 but  with  no  very  decisive  result.  The  conclusion 
reached  on  either  side  has  very  commonly  been  deter- 
mined by  doctrinal  prepossessions  rather  than  by  exe- 
getieal  principles.  The  general  consensus  of  patristic 
commentators  gives  an  affirmative  to  the  question  of.liis 
partaking  of  the  commemorative  meal,  that  of  modern 
critics  a negative  answer  (eomp.  Meyer,  Comm,  on  John 
xiii,  36).  Of  the  three  synoptic  evangelists,  Matthew 
and  Mark  represent  the  charge  of  an  intention  to  betray 
on  the  part  of  Judas  as  being  brought  against  him  be- 
tween the  paschal  feast  and  the  supper,  while  Luke  does 
not  mention  it  till  both  feasts  were  finished ; yet  none 
of  them  say  precisely  when  he  left  the  chamber.  From 
this  surely  it  may  be  inferred  that  nothing  very  mate- 
rial depended  on  the  circumstance.  If  Judas  did  leave 
before  the  commencement  of  the  supper,  it  was  plainly 
not  because  he  was  formally  excluded,  but  because  he 
felt  it  to  be  morally  impossible  to  continue  any  longer 
in  such  company.  As,  however,  it  seems  certain,  from 
John  xiii,  80,  that  he  left  the  moment  Jesus  brought 
home  the  eharge  to  him,  and  gave  him  the  sop,  and  as 
it  is  next  to  certain  that  the  feast  then  proceeding  was 
not  that  of  the  supper,  the  probabilities  of  the  case  must 
he  held  to  be  on  the  side  of  his  previous  withdrawal. 
The  requisitions  of  time,  too,  favor  the  same  view ; since, 
if  Judas  did  not  leave  till  so  late  as  the  close  of  both 
feasts,  it  is  scarcely  possible  to  eonceive  how  he  should 


have  had  time  to  arrange  with  the  chief  priests  for  pro- 
ceeding with  the  arrest  of  Jesus  that  very  night.  The 
matter  in  this  shape  came  alike  on  him  and  on  them  by 
surprise;  fresh  consultations,  therefore,  required  to  be 
held,  fresh  measures  to  be  adopted ; and  these  necessari- 
ly demanded  time,  to  the  extent  at  least  of  some  hours. 

6.  Alleyed  Discrepancy  as  to  the  J\fode  of  Judas's 
Suicide. — We  have  in  Acts  i another  account  than  the 
above  of  the  eircnmstances  of  his  death,  which  some 
have  thought  it  difficult  to  harmonize  with  that  given 
by  Matthew.  There,  in  words  which  may  have  been 
spoken  by  Peter  (Meyer,  following  the  general  consensus 
of  interpreters),  or  may  have  been  a parenthetical  notice 
inserted  by  Luke  (Calvin,  Olshausen,  and  others),  it  is 
stated, 

(1)  That,  instead  of  throwing  the  money  into  the 
Temple,  he  bought  (tKrr/yffaro)  a field  with  it.  As  to 
this  point,  it  has  been  said  that  there  is  a kind  of  irony 
in  Peter’s  words,  “ This  was  all  he  got.”  A better  ex- 
planation is,  that  what  vras  bought  with  his  money  is 
spoken  of  as  bought  by  him  (Meyer,  ad  loc.). 

(2)  That,  instead  of  hanging  himself,  “ falling  head- 
long, he  burst  asunder  in  the  midst,  and  all  his  bowels 
gushed  out.”  On  this  w*e  have  two  methods  of  recon- 
ciliation : (a)  That  «7r//yS«7o,  in  Matt,  xxvii,  5,  in- 
cludes death  by  some  sudden  spasm  of  suffocation  ( an - 
yina  pectoris?),  such  as  might  be  caused  by  the  over- 
powering misery  of  his  remorse,  and  that  then  came  the 
fall  described  in  the  Acts  (Suieer,  Thes.  s.  v.  «7rdyyw  ; 
Grotius,  Hammond,  Lightfoot,  and  others).  By  some 
this  has  even  been  connected  with  the  name  Iscariot,  as 
implying  a constitutional  tendency  to  this  disease  (Gill). 
(b)  That  the  work  of  suicide  was  but  half  accomplished, 
and  that,  the  halter  breaking,  lie  fell  (from  a fig-tree,  in 
one  tradition)  across  the  road,  and  was  mangled  and 
crushed  by  the  carts  and  wagons  that  passed  over  him. 
This  explanation  appears,  with  strange  and  horrible  ex- 
aggerations, in  the  narrative  of  Papias,  quoted  by  (Ecu- 
menius  on  Acts  i,  and  in  The npliylact.  on  Matt,  xxvii. 
It  is,  however,  but  a reasonable  supposition  that  (Ju- 
das being  perhaps  a corpulent  man),  the  rope  breaking 
or  slipping,  he  fell  (probably  from  some  elevated  place, 
see  Hackett,  Illustra.  of  Script,  p.  266)  with  such  vio- 
lence that  his  abdomen  burst  with  the  fall. 

(3)  That  for  this  reason,  and  not  because  the  priests 
had  bought  it  with  the  price  of  blood,  the  field  w as  call- 
ed Aceldama.  But  it  may  readily  he  supposed  that  the 
potter’s  field  which  the  priests  had  bought  was  the  same 
as  that  in  which  the  traitor  met  so  terrible  a death. 
See  Aceldama. 

7.  On  the  question  of  Judas’s  final  salvation,  it  is  dif- 
ficult to  see  how  any  dispute  could  well  arise  in  view  of 
his  self-murder  (comp.  1 John  iii,  15).  But  aside  from 
this,  two  statements  seem  to  mark  his  fate  in  the  other 
world  as  distinctly  a reprobate  one. 

(1.)  His  unmitigated  remorse,  as  expressed  in  Matt, 
xxvii,  5.  This  passage  has  often  been  appealed  to  as 
illustrating  the  difference  between  pt~apt\tia  and  /nro- 
voia.  It  is  questionable,  however,  howr  far  the  N.-Test. 
writers  recognise  that  distinction  (compare  Grotius,  ad 
loc.).  Still  more  questionable  is  the  notion  that  Mat- 
thew describes  his  disappointment  at  a result  so  dift’er- 
ent  from  that  which  he  had  reckoned  on.  Yet  this  is 
nevertheless  clearly  an  instance  of  “ the  sorrow  of  the 
world  that  worketh  death”  (2  Cor.  vii,  10).  See  Re- 
pentance. 

(2.)  His  “going  to  his  own  place”  (Acts  i.  25),  where 
the  words  iciog  tottoq  convey  to  our  minds,  probably 
were  meant  to  convey  to  those  who  heard  them  the  im- 
pression of  some  dark  region  in  Gehenna.  Lightfoot 
and  Gill  (ad  loc.)  quote  passages  from  Rabbinical  wri- 
ters wTho  find  that  meaning  in  the  phrase,  even  in  Gen. 
xxxi,  55,  and  Numb,  xxiv,  25.  On  the  other  hand,  it 
should  be  remembered  that  many  interpreters  reject 
that  explanation  (compare  Meyer,  ad  loc.),  and  that  one 
great  Anglieal)  divine  (Hammond,  Comment,  on  X.  Test. 
ad  loc.)  enters  a distinct  protest  against  it.  Similarly 


JUDAS-LIGHT  1004  JUDE 


Dr.  Clarke  ( Commentary , ad  loc.)  argues  against  the 
whole  of' our  conclusions  respecting  the  violent  death  of 
Judas,  but  his  reasoning,  as  well  as  that  of  the  other 
critics  named,  is  far  from  satisfactory. 

8.  L iterutu re. — Special  treatises  on  the  character  of 
Judas  are  the  following:  Zandt,  Comment,  de  Juda  pro- 
(litore  (Lips.  1709)  ; Ilau,  A nmerh  iib.  d.  Character  des 
Judas  (Lemgo,  1778);  Schmidt,.-! pologie  d.  Judas,  in  his 
Kseyd.  1 iritr . i,  18;  ii,  342;  Lechtlen,  De  culpa  Judm 
Argent.  1*13);  Daub,  Judas  Isckurioth  (Ileidelb.  1816) ; 
Scholltneyer,  Jesus  uiul  Judas  (Lunch.  1836) ; August i, 
Thtal.  Hibl.  i,  497,  520 Ferenezy,  De  comilio  proditionis  \ 
Jnihe  (Utr.  1829);  Gerlin g,DeJuda  sacra  canoe  conviva 
( llal.  1744) ; llebcnstreit,  De  Juda  Iscar.  (Viteb.  1712) ; 
Philipp, Veb. d.Verratker  Judas (Naumb.  1754) ; Riitz,  D. 
Wrratherei  d.  Judas  (Haag,  1789) ; Jour.  Sac.  Lit.  Jidy, 
1*63.  On  his  death,  see  Casaubon,  Exerc.  antibar.  16,  p. 
527 ; Alberti,  Observut.  p.  222 ; Paulus,  Comment,  iii,  506 ; 
Barbatii  Dissert,  novissima  Juda  Iscar.  fata  (Regiom. 
1665);  (ibtze,  De  suspendio  Judce  (Jen.  1661) ; Rbser,  De 
morte  Jtuhe  (Viteb.  1668) ; Neunhofer,  De  Juda  lapsu 
extincto  (Chemn.  1740),  Oldendorp,  De  Juda  in  templo 
occiso  (11  anno v.  1754).  For  other  monographs,  sec  Yol- 
beding,  Index , p.  32,  54;  Hase,  Leben  Jesu,  p.  191.  See 
Jesus  Ciikist. 

12.  A Jew  residing  at  Damascus  in  the  Straight 

street  at  the  time  of  Paul’s  conversion,  to  whose  house 
Ananias  was  seut  (Acts  ix,  11).  A.D.  30.  “ The 

Straight  Street’  may  with  little  question  be  identified 
with  the  ‘ Street  of  Bazaars,’  a long,  wide  thoroughfare, 
penetrating  from  the  southern  gate  into  the  heart  of  the 
city,  which,  as  in  all  the  Syro-Greek  and  Svro-Roman 
towns,  it  intersects  in  a straight  line.  The  so-called 
•House  of  Judas’  is  still  shown  in  an  open  space  called 
• the  Sheykh’s  Place,’  a few  steps  out  of  the  ‘ Street  of 
Bazaars:’  it  contains  a square  room  with  a stone  fioor, 
partly  walled  off  for  a tomb,  shown  to  Maundrell  ( Early 
True.  Bohn,  p.  494)  as  the 1 tomb  of  Ananias.’  The  house 
is  an  object  of  religious  respect  to  Mussulmans  as  well 
as  Christians  (Stanley,  Syr.  and  Pal.  p.  412;  Conybeare 
and  llowson,  i,  102;  Pococke,  ii,  119)”  (Smith).  Sec 
Damascus. 

13.  Surnamed  Baksabas,  a Christian  teacher  sent 
from  Jerusalem  to  Antioch  along  with  Paul  and  Barna- 
bas (Acts  xv,  22,  27, 32).  A.D.  47.  lie  is  supposed  by 
some  (see  Grotius,  Wolf,  ad  loe.)  to  have  been  one  of  the 
seventy  disciples,  and  brother  of  Joseph,  also  surnamed 
Barsabas  (son  of  Sabas),  who  was  proposed,  with  Mat- 
thias, to  fill  up  the  place  of  the  traitor  Judas  (Acts  i, 
23) ; but  others  (Augusti,  Uebers.  d.  Kuthol.  Dr.  ii,  86) 
identify  him  with  Judas  Thaddieus  (but  sec  Bertholdt, 
v,  26*1).  Schott  supposes  that  Barsabas  means  the  son 
of  Sabas,  or  Zabas,  which  he  fancifully  regards  as  an 
abridged  form  for  Zebedee,  and  concludes  that  the  Judas 
here  mentioned  was  a brother  of  the  elder  James  and  of 
John.  Judas  and  Silas  arc  mentioned  together  (in  the 
above  deputation  of  the  Church  to  determine  the  obli- 
gation of  the  Mosaic  law)  as  “ prophets”  and  “chief  men 
among  the  brethren”  at  the  metropolis,  “ perhaps  a 
member  of  the  Presbytery”  (Neander,  PI. and  Tr.  i,  123). 
After  employing  their  prophetical  gifts  for  the  confir- 
mation of  the  Syrian  Christians  in  the  faith,  Judas  went 
back  to  Jermalem,  while  Silas  either  remained  at  Anti- 
och (for  tlie  reading  Acts  xv, 34  is  uncertain;  and  while 
some  MSS.,  followed  by  the  Vulgate,  add  flavor  ’ loveat ; 
it  inapti'Dif,  the  best  omit  the  verse  altogether)  or 
speedily  returned  thither.  See  Paul. 

14.  Son  of  one  Jairus,  and  leader  of  a company  of 
Jews  during  the  final  siege  of  Jerusalem  by  the  Romans, 
from  which  he  escaped  by  an  underground  passage;  lie 
was  afterwards  slain  while  leading  the  defence  of  the 
castle  of  M admits  against  the  Roman  troops  (Josephus, 
liar,  vii,  6, 5). 

Judas-Light,  or  Judas  of  the  Paschal,  was 

the  name  <.f  a wooden  imitation  of  the  candle  which 
held  the  real  paschal  in  the  seventh  branch  standing 


upright,  the  rest  diverging  on  either  side.  See  TV alcott, 
Sac.  A rcheeol.  s.  v. 

Judd,  Gaylord,  a Methodist  Episcopal  minister, 
was  born  at  Watertown,  Conn.,  Oct.  7,  1784,  and  con- 
verted in  1805.  He  was  licensed  as  a local  preacher  in 
1809,  and  thus  labored  faithfully  for  twelve  years;  en- 
tered the  Genesee  Conference  in  1821 ; was  superannu- 
ated in  1841 ; and  died  at  Candor,  Tioga  Co.,  N.  Y.,  in 
1859.  He  was  a sound  and  evangelical  preacher,  and 
“ had  a good  report  of  all  men.”  Many  souls  were  con- 
verted by  his  ministry,  and  his  memory  is  precious  in 
the  Susquehanna  Valley,  the  principal  field  of  his  labors, 
— Minutes  of  Conferences,  1859,  vii,  162. 

Judd,  Sylvester,  a Unitarian  minister  of  some 
note,  was  born  in  TVesthampton,  Mass.,  July  23,  1813, 
and  was  educated  at  Yale  College.  He  was  of  Ortho- 
dox parentage,  but  shortly  after  the  completion  of  his 
collegiate  studies  he  changed  his  religions  opinions,  and 
went  to  Cambridge  Divinity  School  to  prepare  for  min- 
isterial duties  in  the  Unitarian  Church.  He  was  called 
to  Augusta,  Maine,  and  there  spent  his  life.  He  died 
in  1853,  “ at  the  very  beginning  of  a course  of  high  use- 
fulness, of  a life  which  seemed  essential  to  the  Church.” 
Judd  wrote  several  books  having  a moral  end  in  view, 
and  as  a literary  character  enjoyed  a good  reputation 
for  ability.  See  Life  and  Character  of  the  Rev.  S.  Judd 
(Bost.  1854),  p.  531 ; Christian  Examiner,  1855,  p.  G3  sq. 

Judd,  Willard,  a Baptist  minister,  was  bom  in 
Southington,  Conn.,  Feb.  23, 1804.  After  teaching  for  a 
short  time,  he  settled  in  Canaan,  X.  Y.,  and  was  licensed 
to  preach  in  1826.  lie  then  removed  to  Herkimer  Co., 
and  preached  alternately  in  Salisbury  and  Oppcnheim 
until  Aug.  23, 1828,  when  he  united  with  the  Church  in 
Salisbury.  He  continued  his  labors  here  with  great 
success  until  1835,  when  his  health  compelled  him  to 
| abandon  the  ministry.  In  1839  he  accepted  an  appoint- 
ment as  classical  teacher  in  Middleburv  Academy,  at 
Wyoming,  which  situation  he  held  until  his  death  in 
Feb.  1840.  Mr.  Judd  published  A Review  of  Professor 
Stuart's  Work  on  Bajdism  (1836,  and  later  revised  and 
enlarged).  A collection  of  several  of  his  miscellaneous 
papers,  with  a brief  Memoir  of  his  life,  was  published 
after  his  death. — Sprague,  Annals,  vi,  750. 

Jude,  or,  rather,  Judas  (To vCac,  i.  q.  Judah;  see 
Juda).  There  were  two  of  this  name  among  the  twelve 
apostles — Judas,  called  also  Lebb.eus  and  Tiiadd.eus 
(Matt,  x,  4;  Mark  iii,  18),  and  Judas  Iscariot.  Judas 
is  likewise  the  name  of  one  of  our  Lord’s  brethren  (Matt, 
xiii,  55-,  Mark  vi,  3),  but  it  is  not  agreed  whether  our 
Lord’s  brother  is  the  same  with  the  apostle  of  this  name. 
Luke  (Gospel,  vi,  16;  Acts  i,  13)  calls  him  ’lovdag  ’Ici- 
Kiofiov,  which  in  the  English  Auth.  Vers,  is  translated 
“Judas,  the  brother  of  James.”  This  is  defended  by 
Winer  {Gramm,  of  N.-T.  Diet.),  Arnaud  {Recher.  Crit. 
snr  VEp.  de  Jude),  and  accepted  by  Burton,  Alford,  Tre- 
gelles,  Michaelis,  etc.  The  ellipsis,  however,  between 
T oveae  and  To/f<5/3ou  is  supplied  by  the  old  Syriac 
translator  (who  was  unacquainted  with  the  Epistle  of 
Jude,  the  writer  of  which  calls  himself  ’lovSag  lu  tXcpbg 
’luKilifiov,  Jude,  verse  1),  with  the  word  son,  and  not 
brother.  Among  our  Lord’s  brethren  are  named  (along 
with  Judas)  James  and  Joses  (Matt,  xiii,  55;  Mark  vi, 
3).  If,  with  llelvidins  among  the  ancients  (see  Jerome, 
Contra  Ilelridium),  and  Kuinbl,  Neander,  and  a few- 
other  modern  commentators,  we  were  to  consider  our 
Lord’s  brethren  to  be  children  of  Joseph  and  the  Virgin 
Mary,  we  should  be  under  the  necessity  of  supposing 
that  there  was  a James,  a Joses,  and  a Judas  who  were 
uterine  brothers  of  our  Lord,  together  with  the  apostles 
James  and  Judas,  who  were  children  of  Mary,  the  sister 
or  cousin  of  the  Virgin  (see  Pearson,  On  the  Creed,  art. 
iv).  Otherwise  it  remains  for  us  to  choose  the  opinion 
that  our  Lord’s  brethren  were  children  of  Joseph  by  a 
former  wife  (Eseha  or  Salome,  according  to  an  apocry- 
phal tradition),  which  was  the  sentiment  of  the  major- 
I itv  of  the  fathers  (still  received  in  the  Oriental  Church), 


JUDE 


1065 


JUDE,  EPISTLE  OF 


or  the  opinion  adopted  in  the  Western  Church,  and  first 
broached  by  Jerome  ( Cant . Helvid.),  that  the  brethren 
of  our  Lord  were  his  cousins,  as  being  children  of  Mary, 
the  wife  of  Cleoplias,  who  must  therefore  be  considered 
as  the  same  with  Alphaeus.  If  we  consider  James,  the 
brother  of  our  Lord,  to  be  a different  person  from  James, 
the  son  of  Alplueus,  and  not  one  of  the  Twelve,  Jude, 
the  brother  of  James,  must  consequently  be  placed  in 
the  same  category;  but  if  they  are  one  and  the  same, 
Jude  must  be  considered  as  the  person  who  is  numbered 
with  our  Lord’s  apostles.  The  most  plausible  solution 
of  the  whole  difficulty  is  by  means  of  the  following  hy- 
potheses : Alphieus,  otherwise  called  Clopas,  was  the 
brother  of  Joseph,  the  reputed  father  of  Christ,  and 
married  Mary  (not  necessarily  a blood-relative  of  the 
Virgin) ; (lying  without  issue,  he  left  his  wife,  thence- 
forth designated. as  Mary,  the  wife  (i.  e.  widow)  of  Clo- 
pas, to  his  brother  Joseph,  who  had  by  her  several  chil- 
dren, namely,  James,  Judas,  Simon,  and  Joses  (and  per- 
haps others,  including  sisters),  the  eldest  of  whom 
(James)  was  especially  designated  as  the  son  of  Alp  Inc- 
us, as  being  his  heir  (Deut.  xxv,  5).  The  first  two  of 
these  (being  probably  older  than  Jesus)  were  the  James 
and  Judas,  or  Jude,  mentioned  among  the  apostles,  as 
also  the  authors  of  the  epistles  bearing  their  respective 
names,  being  half-brothers  of  Christ,  as  the  reputed  son 
of  the  common  parent  Joseph.  See  Alpheus  ; James  ; 
Joseph;  Mary. 

We  are  not  informed  as  to  the  time  of  the  vocation 
of  the  apostle  Jude  to  that  dignity.  Indeed,  the  only 
circumstance  relating  to  him  which  is  recorded  in  the 
Gospels  consists  in  the  question  put  by  him  to  our  Lord 
(John  xiv,  22):  “Judas  saith  unto  him  (not  Iscariot), 
Lord,  how  is  it  that  thou  wilt  manifest  thyself  to  us,  and 
not  unto  the  world?”  Nor  have  we  any  account  given 
of  his  proceedings  after  our  Lord’s  resurrection,  for  the 
traditionary  notices  which  have  been  preserved  of  him 
rest  on  no  very  certain  foundation  (Lardner’s  History  of 
the  Apostles ).  There  may  be  some  truth  in  the  tradi- 
tion which  connects  him  with  the  foundation  of  the 
church  at  Edessa ; though  here  again  there  is  much 
confusion,  and  doubt  is  thrown  over  the  account  by  its 
connection  with  the  worthless  fiction  of  “Abgarus,  king 
of  Edessa”  (Eusebius,  Hist.  Eccl.  i,  13;  Jerome,  Comm, 
in  Matt.  x).  Nieephorns  ( Hist . Eccl.  ii,  40)  makes  Jude 
die  a natural  death  in  that  city  after  preaching  in  Pal- 
estine, Syria,  and  Arabia.  The  Syrian  tradition  speaks 
of  his  abode  at  Edessa,  but  adds  that  he  went  thence  to 
Assyria,  and  was  martyred  in  Phoenicia  on  his  return; 
while  that  of  the  West  makes  Persia  the  field  of  his  la- 
bors and  the  scene  of  tiis  martyrdom.  Jude  the  apostle 
is  commemorated  in  the  Western  Church,  together  with 
the  apostle  Simon  (the  name,  also,  of  one  of  our  Lord’s 
brethren),  on  the  8th  of  October.  Eusebius  giVt*s  us  an 
interesting  tradition  of  Ilegesippus  (Hist.  Eccl.  iii,  20, 
32)  that  two  grandsons  of  Jude,  “ who,  according  to  the 
flesh,  was  called  the  Lord’s  brother”  (comp.  1 Cor.  ix,  5), 
were  seized  and  carried  to  Pome  by  order  of  Domitian, 
whose  apprehensions  had  been  excited  by  what  he  had 
heard  of  the  mighty  power  of  the  kingdom  j)f  Christ; 
but  that  the  emperor  having  discovered  by  tlieir  an- 
swers to  his  inquiries,  and  the  appearance  of  their  hands, 
that  they  were  poor  men,  supporting  themselves  by  their 
labor,  and  havinglearned  the  spiritual  nature  of  Christ’s 
kingdom,  dismissed  them  in  contempt,  and  ceased  from 
his  persecution  of  the  Church,  whereupon  they  returned 
to  Palestine,  and  took  a leading  place  in  the  churches, 
“as  being  at  the  same  time  confessors  and  of  the  Lord’s 
family”  (dog  dv  d>)  fidpTi’pag  bpov  ical  dub  yivtog  bv- 
Tdg  tov  KnpiotOi  and  lived  till  the  time  of  Trajan. 
Nicephoros  (i,  23)  tells  us  that  Jude’s  wife  was  named 
Mary. — Kitto;  Smith.  For  further  discussion,  see  Per-, 
tholdt,  Einl.  v,  2679;  vi,  31,79;  Perionii  1 iter  Apostol. 
p.  166;  Assemani,  Biblioth.  Orient.  Ill,  ii,  13 ; i,  302, 611 ; 
Bayer,  Hist.  Osrhcen.  et  Edessen.  p.  104 ; Credncr,  Einl. 
i,  611 ; De  Wette,  Einl.  ins  X.  T.  p.  340;  Harenberg,  in 
Miscell.  Lips.  nov.  iii,  373 ; Michaelis,  Einl.  ii,  1489 ; and 


the  monographs  cited  by  Volbeding,  Index,  p.  32.  On 
the  pretended  Gospel  of  Thaddams,  see  Kleuker,  Apokr. 
N.  T.  p.  67  sq.  See  Leeieeus. 

JUDE,  Epistle  of.  The  last  in  order  of  the  cath- 
olic epistles. 

I.  A uthor. — The  writer  of  this  epistle  styles  himself, 
verse  1,  “Jude,  the  brother  of  James”  (ddt\6bg  Tcrvo/- 
fiov),  and  has  usually  been  identified  with  the  apostle 
Judas  Lebbaeus  or  Thaddiens,  called  by  Luke  (vi,  16) 
Tou^ag  ’laKiofiov,  A.X.  “Judas,  the  brother  ofiJames.” 
It  has  been  seen  above  that  this  mode  of  supplying  the 
ellipsis,  though  not  altogether  in  accordance  with  the 
usus  loquemli , is,  nevertheless,  quite  justifiable,  although 
there  are  strong  reasons  for  rendering  the  words  “Ju- 
das, the  son  of  James.”  Jerome,  Tertullian,  and  Origen 
among  the  ancients,  and  Calmet,  Calvin,  Hammond, 
Hiinlein,  Lange,  Vatablus,  Arnaud,  and  Tregelles  among 
the  moderns,  agree  in  assigning  the  epistle  to  the  apos- 
tle. Whether  it  were  the  work  of  an  apostle  or  not,  it 
has  from  very  early  times  been  attributed  to  “the  Lord’s 
brother”  of  that  name  (Matt,  xiii,  55;  Mark  vi,  3):  a 
view  in  which  Origen,  Jerome,  and  (if  indeed  the  Ad- 
nmbratioues  be  rightly  assigned  to  him)  Clemens  Alex- 
andrinus  agree;  which  is  implied  in  the  words  of  Chry- 
sostom (Horn.  48  in  Joan.),  confirmed  by  the  epigraph 
of  the  Syriac  versions,  and  is  accepted  by  most  modem 
commentators — Arnaud,  Bengel,  Burton,  Hug,  Jessien, 
Olshausen,  Tregelles,  etc.  The  objection  that  has  been 
felt  by  Neander  (PI.  and  Tr.  i,  392)  and  others,  that  if 
he  had  been  “ the  Lord’s  brother”  he  would  have  direct- 
ly styled  himself  so,  and  not  merely  “the  brother  of 
James,”  has  been  anticipated  by  the  author  of  the  “Ad- 
umbrationes”  (Bunsen,  Analect.  Ante-Xican.  i,  330),  who 
says,  “Jude,  who  wrote  the  catholic  Epistle,  brother  of 
the  sons  of  Joseph,  an  extremely  religious  man,  though 
he  was  aware  of  his  relationship  to  the  Lord,  did  not 
call  himself  his  brother;  but  what  said  he?  ‘Jude,  the 
servant  of  Jesus  Christ’  as  his  Lord,  but  ‘brother  of 
James.’”  We  may  easily  believe  that  it  was  through 
humility,  and  a true  sense  of  the  altered  relations  be- 
tween them  and  him  who  had  been  “declared  to  be  the 
Son  of  God  with  power  ....  by  the  resurrection  from 
the  dead”  (comp.  2 Cor.  v,  16),  that  both  Jude  and  James 
forbore  to  call  themselves  the  brethren  of  Jesus.  The 
arguments  concerning  the  authorship  of  the  epistle  are 
ably  summed  up  by  Jessien  (De  A nthent.  Ep.  Jud.  Lips, 
1821)  and  Arnaud  (Recher.  Critiq.  sur  VEpist.  de  Jude, 
Strasb.  1851,  transl.  in  the  Brit,  and  For.  Ev.  Rev.  July, 
1869) ; and,  though  it  is  by  no  means  clear  of  difficulty, 
the  most  probable  conclusion  is  that  the  author  was 
J ude,  one  of  the  brethren  of  Jesus,  and  brother  of  James, 
as  also  the  apostle,  the  son  of  Alphams.  See  Brethren 
of  our  Lord. 

II.  Genuineness  and  Canonicity. — Although  the  Epis- 
tle of  Jude  is  one  of  the  so-called  Antileyomena,  and  its 
canonicity  was  questioned ‘in  the  earliest  ages  of  the 
Church,  there  never  was  any  doubt  of  its  genuineness 
among  those  by  whom  it  was  known.  It  was  too  un- 
important to  be  a forgery ; few  portions  of  holy  Scrip- 
ture could,  with  reverence  be  it  spoken,  have  been  more 
easily  spared;  and  the  question  was  never  whether  it 
was  the  work  of  an  impostor,  but  whether  its  author 
was  of  sufficient  weight  to  warrant  its  admission  into 
the  canon.  This  question  was  gradually  decided  in  its 
favor,  and  the  more  widely  it  was  known  the  more  gen- 
erally it  was  received  as  canonical,  until  it  took  its  place 
without  further  dispute  as  a portion  of  the  volume  of 
holy  Scripture.  See  Antilegomena. 

This  epistle  is  not  cited  bv  any  of  the  apostolic  fa- 
thers; the  passages  which  have  been  adduced  as  con- 
taining allusions  to  it  (Hermas,  Past.  Vis.  iv,  3;  Clem. 
Kom.,  Ep.  ad  Cor.  ch.  xi ; Polycarp,  Ep.  ad  Phil.  eh. 
iii)  presenting  no  certain  evidence  of  being  such.  It  is, 
however,  formally  quoted  by  Ckment  of  Alexandria 
(Peeday.  iii,  239,  ed.  Sylburg.;  Strom,  iii,  431),  and  Eu- 
sebius testifies  (Hist.  Eceles.x i,  14)  that  he  treated  it  in 
his  // ypoty poses  ; it  is  also  treated  in  the  J dumbrationes, 


JUDE,  EPISTLE  OF  1066  JUDE,  EPISTLE  OF 


ascribed  to  Clement,  and  preserved  in  a Latin  version.  I 
Tertullian  refers  to  the  epistle  as  that  of  Jude  the  apostle 
(De  Habit.  Mulieb.  eh.  iii).  It  appears  in  the  Mura  tori 
Fragment  among  the  canonical  books.  Ongen  repeated-  j 
lv  refers  to  it,  and  occasionally  as  the  work  of  the  apostle 
Jude  (Horn,  in  Matt,  xiii,  55,  in  Opp.,  ed.  De  la  Rue,  iii, 
•103 ; Com.  in  Ep.  ad  Rom.,  in  Opp.  iv,  519 ; Horn,  in  Jos., 
in  Opp.  ii,  411 ; De  Princip.,  in  Opp.  i,  138,  etc.) ; though 
in  one  place  he  speaks  as  if  doubts  were  entertained  by 
some  as  to  its  genuineness  (in  Matt,  xxii,  23,  in  Opp.  iii, 
814).  It  is  not  in  the  Peshito,  and  does  not  appear  to 
have  been  known  to  the  Syrian  churches  before  the  4th 
century,  near  the  close  of  which  it  is  quoted  by  Ephra- 
em  Syrus  (Opp.  Syr.  i,  13G).  Eusebius  ranks  it  among 
the  Antilegomena,  but  this  rather  because  it  was  not  ^ 
universally  known  than  because  where  known  it  was 
by  any  regarded  with  suspicion  (/list.  Eeeles.  ii,  23;  iii,  . 
25).  By  Jerome  it  is  referred  to  as  the  work  of  an 
apostle  [in  Tit.  i ; Ep.  ad  Paulin,  iii),  and  he  states  that, 
though  suspected  by  some,  in  consequence  of  containing  j 
a quotation  from  the  apocryphal  book  of  Enoch,  it  had 
obtained  such  authority  as  to  be  reckoned  part  of  the 
canonical  Scriptures  (Catal.  Script.  Eeeles.).  From  the  | 
4th  century  onwards,  the  place  thus  conceded  to  it  re-  j 
mained  unquestioned  (Westeott,  Canon  of  the  X.  Test.). 
Thus  the  epistle  is  quoted  by  Malehian,  a presbyter  of 
Antioch,  in  a letter  to  the  bishops  of  Alexandria  and 
Rome  (Eusebius,  Hist.  Eeeles.  vii,  30),  and  by  Palladius, 
the  friend  of  Chrysostom  (Chrysostom,  Opp.  xiii,  Dial. 
it,  18,20),  and  is  contained  in  the  Laodieene  (A.D.  3G3), 
Carthaginian  (397),  and  so-called  Apostolic  catalogues, 
as  well  as  in  those  emanating  from  the  churches  of  the 
East  and  West,  with  the  exception  of  the  Synopsis  of 
Chrysostom,  and  those  of  Cassiodorus  and  Ebed  Jesu. 

Various  reasons  might  be  assigned  for  delay  in  re- 
ceiving this  epistle,  and  the  doubts  long  prevalent  re- 
specting it.  The  uncertainty  as  to  its  author,  and  his 
standing  in  the  Church;  the  unimportant  nature  of  its 
contents,  and  their  almost  absolute  identity  with  2 Pet. 
ii ; and  the  supposed  quotation  of  apoeryphal  books, 
would  all  tend  to  create  a prejudice  against  it,  which 
could  only  be  overcome  by  time,  and  the  gradual  recog- 
nition by  the  leading  churches  of  its  genuineness  and 
canon  icity. 

At  the  Reformation  the  doubts  on  the  canonical  au- 
thority on  this  epistle  were  revived,  and  have  been 
shared  in  by  modern  commentators.  They  were  more 
or  less  entertained  by  Grotitis,  Luther,  Calvin,  Bergen, 
Bol ten,  Dahl,  Michaelis,  and  the  Magdeburg  Centuria- 
tors.  It  has  been  ably  defended  by  Jessien,  De  J uthen- 
tia  Ep.  Jinbe,  Lips.  1821. 

There  is  nothing,  however,  in  the  epistle  itself  to  cast 
suspicion  on  its  genuineness;  on  the  contrary,  it  rather  1 
impresses  one  with  the  conviction  that  it  must  have 
proceeded  from  the  writer  whose  name  it  bears.  An- 
other, forging  a work  in  his  name,  would  hardly  have 
omitted  to  make  prominent  the  personality  of  Judas, 
and  his  relation  to  our  Lord,  neither  of  which  comes  be- 
fore us  in  this  epistle  (Bleek,  Einl.  in.  d.  X.  Test.  p.  557).  ! 
See  ( 'anon. 

111.  Time  and  Place  of  Writing. — There  are  few,  if 
any,  external  grounds  for  deciding  these  points,  and  the 
internal  evidence  is  hut  small. 

1.  J he  question  of  date  is  connected  by  many  with  I 
that  of  its  relation  to  2 Peter  (see  below),  and  an  earlier 
or  later  period  has  boon  assigned  to  it  according  as  it ; 
has  been  considered  to  have  been  anterior  or  posterior 
to  that  epistle.  Attempts  have  also  been  made  to  prove 
a late  date  for  the  epistle,  from  an  alleged  quotation  in  ' 
it  from  the  apocryphal  book  of  Enoch  (verse  13) ; but  it  j 
“ by  no  means  certain  that  the  passage  is  a quotation  j 
from  the  now  extant  book  of  Enoch,  and  scholars  have 
yet  to  settle  when  the  book  of  Enoch  was  written,  so 
that  from  this  nothing  can  be  inferred  as  to  the  date  of  I 
this  epistle. 

from  the  character  of  the  errors  against  which  it  is  | 
directed, however, it  cannot  lie  placed  very  early;  though  I 


there  is  no  sufficient  ground  for  Sehleiermacher’s  opin- 
ion that  “ in  the  last  time”  (iv  taxiing  xpdvip,  ver.  18 ■, 
comp.  1 John  ii,  18,  (<rx«nj  iopa  ion)  forbids  our  placing 
it  in  the  apostolic  age  at  all.  Lardner  places  it  between 
A.D.  64  and  66,  Davidson  before  A.D.  70,  Credner  A.D. 
80,  Calrnet,  Estius,  Witsius,  and  Neander,  after  the  death 
of  all  the  apostles  but  John,  and  perhaps  after  the  fall 
of  Jerusalem;  although  considerable  weight  is  to  be 
given  to  the  argument  of  De  Wette  ( Einleit . in  X.  T.  p. 
300),  that  if  the  destruction  of  Jerusalem  had  already 
taken  place,  some  warning  would  have  been  drawn  from 
so  signal  an  instance  of  God’s  vengeance  on  the  “ un- 
godly.” From  the  allusion,  however  to  the  preaching 
of  the  apostles,  we  may  infer  that  it  was  among  the 
later  productions  of  the  apostolic  age ; for  it  was  written 
whilst  persons  were  still  alive  who  had  heard  apostles 
preach,  but  when  this  preaching  was  beginning  to  be- 
come a thing  of  the  past  (ver.  17).  On  the  other  hand, 
again,  if  the  author  were  really  the  brother  of  Jesus,  es- 
pecially an  elder  brother,  we  cannot  well  suppose  him 
to  have  lived  much  beyond  the  middle  of  the  first  cen- 
tnrv.  We  mav  therefore  conjeeturally  place  it  about 
A.D.  G6. 

2.  There  are  still  less  data  from  which  to  determine 
the  place  of  writing.  Burton,  however,  is  of  opinion 
that  inasmuch  as  the  descendants  of  “Judas,  the  brother 
of  the  Lord,”  if  we  identify  him  with  the  author  of  the 
epistle,  were  found  in  Palestine,  lie  probably  “did  not 
absent  himself  long  from  his  native  country,”  and  that 
the  epistle  was  published  there,  since  he  styles  himself 
“ the  brother  of  James,”  an  expression  most  likely  to  be 
used  in  a country  where  James  was  well  known”  (Ec- 
eles.  Hist,  i,  334).  With  this  locality  will  agree  all  the 
above  considerations  as  to  date. 

IV.  Persons  to  whom  the  Epistle  is  addressed. — These 
are  described  by  the  WTiter  as  “ the  called  who  are  sancti- 
fied in  God  the  Father,  and  kept  for  Jesus  Christ.”  From 
the  resemblance  of  some  parts  of  this  epistle  to  the  sec- 
ond of  Peter,  it  has  been  inferred  that  it  was  sent  to  the 
same  parties  in  Asia  Minor,  and  with  a view  to  enforcing 
the  apostle’s  admonitions;  whilst  others,  from  the  strong- 
ly Jewish  character  of  the  writing,  infer  that  it  was  ad- 
dressed to  some  body  of  Jewish  Christians  in  Palestine. 
From  the  fact  that  the  parties  addressed  seem  to  have 
been  surrounded  by  a large  and  wicked  population,  some 
have  supposed  that  they  may  have  dwelt  in  Corinth, 
whilst  others  suggest  one  of  the  commercial  cities  of 
Syria.  The  supposition  that  the  parties  addressed  dwelt 
in  Egypt  is  mere  conjecture.  But  the  address  (ver.  1) 
is  applicable  to  Christians  generally,  and  there  is  noth- 
ing in  the  body  of  the  epistle  to  limit  its  reference;  and 
though  it  is  not  improbable  that  the  author  had  a par- 
ticular portion  of  the  Church  in  view,  and  that  the 
Christians  of  Palestine  were  the  immediate  objects  of 
his  warning,  the  dangers  described  were  sneli  as  the 
whole  Christian  world  was  exposed  to,  and  the  adver- 
saries the  same  which  had  everywhere  to  be  guarded 
against. 

V.  Objeet,  Contents,  and  Errors  inveighed  against. — 
The  purpose  which  the  writer  had  in  view  is  stated  by 
himself.  After  the  inscription,  he  says  that,  intending 
to  write  “of  the  common  salvation,”  he  found  himself, 
as  it  were,  compelled  to  utter  a solemn  warning  in  de- 
fence of  the  faith,  imperilled  by  the  evil  conduct  of  cor- 
rupt men  (ver.  3).  Possibly  there  was  some  observed 
outbreak  which  gave  the  occasion.  The  evil  for  a while 
had  been  working  in  secret — “certain  men  crept  in  un- 
awares” (ver.  4) — but  now  the  canker  showed  itself.  The 
crisis  must  be  met  promptly  and  resolutely.  Therefore 
the  writer  denounces  those  who  turned  the  grace  of' 
God  “ into  lasciviousness,”  virtually  denying  God  by  dis- 
obeying his  law.  He  alarms  by  holding  out  three  ex- 
amples of  such  sin  and  its  pnnishment — the  Israelites 
that  sinned  in  the  wilderness;  the  angels  that  “kept 
not  their  first  estate;”  and  the  foul  cities  of  Sodom  and 
Gomorrha  (ver.  5-7).  Me  next  describes  minutely  the 
character  of  those  whom  he  censures,  and  shows  how  of 


JUDE.  EPISTLE  OF  1067  JUDE,  EPISTLE  OF 


old  they  had  been  prophetically  marked  out  as  objects 
of  deserved  vengeance  (ver.  8-10).  Then,  turning  to 
the  faithful, he  reminds  them  that  the  apostles  had  fore- 
warned them  that  evil  men  would  rise  in  the  Church 
(ver.  17-19);  exhorts  them  to  maintain  their  own  stead- 
fastness (ver.  20,  21),  and  to  do  their  utmost  in  rescuing 
others  from  contamination  (ver.  22, 23) ; and  concludes 
with  an  ascription  of  praise  to  him  who  alone  could 
keep  his  people  from  falling  (ver.  24,  25).  The  whole 
was  thoroughly  applicable  to  a time  when  iniquity  was 
abounding,  and  the  love  of  many  waxing  cold  (Matt, 
xxiv,  12). 

The  design  of  such  a train  of  thought  is  obviously  to 
put  the  believers  to  whom  the  epistle  was  addressed  on 
their  guard  against  the  misleading  efforts  of  certain  per- 
sons to  whose  influence  they  were  exposed.  Who  these 
persons  were,  or  to  what  class  of  errorists  they  belonged, 
can  only  be  matter  of  conjecture.  Some,  indeed  (De 
Wette,  Schwegler,  Bleek),  think  the  persons  alluded  to 
held  no  peculiar  opinions,  and  were  simply  men  of  lax 
morals;  but, from  the  manner  in  which  the  writer  refers 
to  them,  it  is  evident  that  they  wTere,  to  use  the  words 
of  Dorner  ( Enticickelungsgesch . i,  104,  E.  T.  i,  72),  “not 
merely  practically  corrupt,  but  teachers  of  error  as  well.” 
Their  opinions  seem  to  have  been  of  an  antinomian 
character  (vers.  4, 18,  19),  but  there  is  nothing  to  con- 
nect them,  except  in  a very  vague  and  distant  way,  with 
any  of  the  later  gnostic  systems.  The  writer  formally 
charges  them  with  “denying  the  only  Lord  God,  and 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,”  language  which  De  Wette  ad- 
mits usually  applies  to  error  of  doctrine,  but  which  here 
he,  without  any  reason,  would  understand  of  feeling  and 
conduct.  The  licentious  courses  in  which  they  indulged 
led  Clement  of  Alexandria  to  think  that  they  were  the 
prototypes  of  the  Carpocratians  and  such  like:  “Of 
these,  and  such  as  these,”  he  says,”  I think  that  Jude 
spoke  prophetically  in  his  epistle”  {Strom,  iii, 431,  Sylb.) ; 
but  this  docs  not  imply  that  they  had  formed  a system 
like  that  of  the  Carpocratians,  but  only  that  the  notions 
and  usages  of  the  one  adumbrated  those  of  the  other. 
Ferhaps  there  have  been  in  all  ages  persons  who  have 
sought  by  perverted  doctrine  to  gain  a sanction  for  sen- 
sual indulgence,  and  such  undoubtedly  were  found  dis- 
turbing the  peace  and  corrupting  the  purity  of  the 
churches  of  Christ  in  different  places  as  early  as  the 
second  half  of  the  1st  century.  The  persons  against 
whom  Jude  writes  were  apparently  of  this  class,  but  in 
their  immorality  the  practical  element  was  more  promi- 
nent than  the  speculative. 

VI.  Style. — The  main  body  of  the  epistle  is  well  char- 
acterized by  Alford  (Gk.  Test,  iv,  147)  as  an  impassioned 
invective,  in  the  impetuous  whirlwind  of  which  the 
writer  is  hurried  along,  collecting  example  after  exam- 
ple of  divine  vengeance  on  the  ungodly ; heaping  epi- 
thet upon  epithet,  and  piling  image  upon  image,  and, 
as  it  were,  laboring  for  words  and  images  strong  enough 
to  depict  the  polluted  character  of  the  licentious  apos- 
tates against  whom  he  is  warning  the  Church ; return- 
ing again  and  again  to  the  subject,  as  though  all  lan- 
guage was  insufficient  to  give  an  adequate  idea  of  their 
profligacy,  and  to  express  his  burning  hatred  of  their 
perversion  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel. 

The  epistle  is  said  by  De  Wette  ( Kinleit . ins  X.  T.  p. 
300)  to  be  tolerably  good  Greek,  though  there  are  some 
peculiarities  of  diction  which  have  led  Schmid  (Einleit. 
i,  314)  and  Bertholdt  (vi,3194)  to  imagine  an  Aramaic 
original. 

VII.  Relation  between  the  Epistle  of  Jude  and  2 refer. 
— The  larger  portion  of  this  epistle  (ver.  3-16)  closely 
resembles  in  language  and  subject  a part  of  the  second 
Epistle  of  Peter  (2  Fet.  ii,  1-19).  In  both  the  heretical 
enemies  of  the  Gospel  are  described  in  terms  so  similar 
as  to  preclude  all  idea  of  entire  independence.  Jude’s 
known  habit  of  quotation  would  seem  to  render  the  sup- 
position most  probable  that  he  has  borrowed  from  Pe- 
ter. Dr.  Davidson,  however  ( Introd . to  the  X.  Test,  iii, 
507),  maintains  the  priority  of  Jude.  As  Jude’s  Epistle 


apparently  emanated  from  Palestine,  and  (if  the  above 
date  be  correct)  from  Jerusalem,  it  may  in  some  sort  be 
regarded  as  an  echo  of  Peter’s  admonitions  uttered  not 
long  before  at  the  Roman  capital.  This  question  will 
be  more  fully  examined  under  Petek,  second  Epistle 
of. 

VIII.  Apocryphal  Quotations. — This  epistle  presents 
one  peculiarity,  which,  as  we  learn  from  Jerome,  caused 
its  authority  to  be  impugned  in  very  early  times — the 
supposed  citation  of  apocryphal  writings  (ver.  9, 14, 15). 

1.  The  former  of  these  passages,  containing  the  refer- 

ence to  the  contest  of  the  archangel  Michael  and  the 
devil  “about  the  body  of  Moses,”  was  supposed  by  Ori- 
gen  to  have  been  founded  on  a Jewish  work  called  the 
“Assumption  of  Moses”  (’ApdXt/xf/tg  M wouog),  quoted 
also  by  (Ecumenius  (ii,  629).  Origen’s  words  are  ex- 
press, “Which  little  work  the  apostle  Jude  lias  made 
mention  of  in  his  epistle”  ( I)e  Princip.  ii,  2;  vol.  i,  p. 
138);  and  some  have  sought  to  identify  the  book  with 
the  Irr"  “ The  Demise  of  Moses,”  which  is, 

however,  proved  by  Michaelis  (iv,  382)  to  be  a modern 
composition.  Attempts  have  also  been  made  by  Lard- 
ner,  Mackniglit,  Vitringa,  and  others,  to  interpret  the 
passage  in  a mystical  sense,  by  reference  to  Zech.  iii,  1, 
2 ; but  the  similarity  is  too  distant  to  afford  any  weight 
to  the  idea.  There  is,  on  the  whole,  little  question  that 
the  writer  is  here  making  use  of  a Jewish  tradition, 
based  on  Dent,  xxxiv,  6,  just  as  facts  unrecorded  in 
Scripture  are  referred  to  by  Paul  (2  Tim.  iii,  8;  Gal.  iii, 
19);  by  the  writer  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  (ii,  2; 
xi,  24) ; by  James  (v,  17),  and  Stephen  (Acts  vii,  22, 
23,  30).  (Sec  further,  Zirkel,  De  Mosis  ad  Superos 
translatio,  Wirceb.  1798.)  See  Moses,  Assumption  of. 

2.  As  regards  the  supposed  quotation  from  the  book 
of  Enoch,  the  question  is  not  so  clear  whether  Jude  is 
making  a citation  from  a work  already  in  the  hands  of 
his  readers — which  is  the  opinion  of  -Jerome  {l.  e.)  and 
Tertullian  (who  was,  in  consequence,  inclined  to  receive 
the  book  of  Enoch  as  canonical  Scripture),  and  has  been 
held  by  many  modern  critics — or  is  employing  a tradi- 
tionary prophecy  not  at  that  time  committed  to  writing 
(a  theory  which  the  words  used,  “Enoch  prophesied, 
saying ,”  tTrpc<pi)7evotv  . . . ’Evmx  Xtywi',  seem  rather 
to  favor),  but  afterwards  embodied  in  the  apocryphal 
work  already  named.  This  is  maintained  by  Tregelles 
(Horne's  Introd.  10th  edit.,  iv,  621),  and  has  been  held 
by  Cave,  Hofmann  (Sehriftbeweis,  i,  420),  Lightfoot  (ii, 
117),Witsius,  and  Calvin  (comp.  Jeiome,  Conan,  in  J'ph. 
c.  v,  p.  647,  8;  in  Tit.  c.  i,  p.  708).  The  present  book 
of  Enoch  actually  contains  (eh.  ii  of  The  Book  of  Enoch, 
in  yEthiopic  and  English,  by  Dr.  Laurence,  Sd  cd.  Loud. 
1838)  the  very  words  cited  by  Jude;  but  some  modern 
critics  maintain  that  they  were  inserted  in  that  book 
out  of  Jude’s  epistle.  See  Enoch,  Book  of. 

But  why  should  not  an  inspired  author  appropriate  a 
piece  of  an  apocryphal  writing?  If  it  contained  ele- 
ments of  truth,  or  was  simply  apposite  to  his  purpose, 
why  should  he  not  use  it  ? He  does  not  (as  some  al- 
lege) attribute  to  it  any  inspired  authority,  nor  ever 
vouch  for  its  accuracy.  It  is  never  objected  in  deroga- 
tion of  the  apostle  Paul  that,  both  in  speech  and  writing, 
he  cited  heathen  authors,  sometimes  with  a special  ref- 
erence (Acts  xvii,  28 ; 1 Cor.  xv,  33 ; Gal.  v,  23 ; Titus 
i,  12).  It  has  also  been  asserted  that  in  various  parts 
of  the  New  Testament  there  are  allusions  (if  not  formal 
citations)  to  several  of  the  books  common!}'  called  apoc- 
ryphal, and  to  other  Jewish  productions  (see  Gough’s 
X.-Test.  Quotations,  p.  276-296).  Common  proverbs,  we 
know,  have  been  introduced  into  Scripture  (1  Sam.  xxiv, 
13 ; 2 Pet.  ii,  22,  where  the  former  part  only  of  the  prov- 
erb cited  is  from  the  Old  Testament). 

But  there  is  no  decisive  proof  that  Jude  could  have 
seen  the  so-called  book  of  Enoch.  For,  though  this  has 
been  ascribed  in  part  to  the  Maccabiean  times,  and  is 
said  to  have  assumed  its  present  shape  prior  to  our 
Lord’s  advent  (see  "West  cot  t,  Introduct.  p.  93,  note),  yet 
this  is  a theory  on  which  critics  are  by  no  means  agreed. 


1068 


JUDE,  EPISTLE  OF 

One  of  the  latest  who  has  investigated  the  question, 
l’rof.  Volkmar,  of  Zurich  (. Zeitschrifl  der  deutsck.  mor- 
(jenl.  Gesellschaft,  I860),  maintains  that  it  was  composed 
by  one  of  the  disciples  of  Kabbi  Akiba,  in  the  time  of 
the  sedition  of  Barchochebas,  about  A.l).  132.  l)r.  Al- 
ford is  convinced  by  Volkmar's  arguments,  and  infers 
lienee  that  “the  book  of  Enoch  was  not  only  of  Jewish, 
but  of  distinctly  autiehristian  origin”  {Proleg.  to  Jude , 
p.  19G>.  We  are  authorized,  then,  in  believing  that 
Jude  merely  incorporated  into  his  epistle  the  tradition 
of  Enoch's  prophecy,  which  was  afterwards  embodied  in 
the  book  as  we  now  have  it. — Smith ; Kitto;  Fairbairn. 
See  Traditiox. 

IX.  Commentaries. — Special  exegetical  helps  on  the 
whole  Epistle  of  Jude  exclusively  are  the  following,  of 
which  we  designate  the  most  important  by  an  asterisk 
prefixed:  Didymus  Alexandrinus,  InEp.Juda  (in  Bibl. 
Max.  Patr.v;  and  Bibl.  Patr.  Gallandii,  vi) ; Bede,  Ex- 
positio (in  Opp.  v)  ; Luther , Ausleguiig  (Wittenb.  1524, 
4to  and  8vo;  etc.) ; Maffe,  Explanatio  (Yen.  1570,  8vo) ; 
Ridley,  Exposition  (Lond.  n.  tl.  lGmo);  De  Bree,  Enar- 
ratio  (Sagunt.  1582,  4to);  Eadcus,  In  Judee  ep.  (Antw. 
1584,  Gen.  1599,  8vo) ; Danteus,  Commentarius  [includ. 
Ep.  John]  (Geneva,  1585,  8vo);  Feuardent,  Commenta- 
rius (Colon.  1595,  8vo);  Junius,  Notes  (Lugd.  Bat.  1599, 
8vo;  also  in  Opp.  i,  1654);  Willet,  Commetitarius  (Lond. 
1G03,  Cambr.  1614,  fol.;  also  Catholicon,  in  “ Harmonie," 
etc.) ; Turnbull,  Sermons  (London,  1606,  4to) ; Lancelott, 
Exegesis  (Antw.  1613, 1626,  8vo);  Boulduc,  Commenta- 
ria  (Paris,  1620,  4to);  Pareus,  Commentarius  (Francof. 
1626,  -lto);  Rost,  Commentarius  (Rostock,  1627,  4to); 
Stumpf,  Explicatio  (Coburg,  1627,  8vo);  Otes,  Sermons 
(London,  1633,  4to);  Gerhard,  Adnotationes  (Jen.  1641, 
1660, 1665, 4to) ; Du  Bois,  Explicatio  (Paris,  1644, 8vo) ; 
Jcnkyn,  Exposition  (Load.  1652-54,  2 pts.  in  1 vol.  4to ; 
Glasgow,  1783;  Lond.  1839,  8vo);  Calovius,  Explicatio 
(Vitcmb.  1654,  1719,  4to)  Mauton,  Lectures  (London, 
1658, 4to);  Broughton, Exposition  (Lond.  1662, fol.;  also 
in  ll  orfe,  p.  402);  Wandalin,  Prodromus  (Hafnine.  1663, 
4to);  Rappolt,  Observationes  (Lipsire,  1675,  4to) ; Grelot. 
Commentarius  (L.  B.  1676,  4to) ; Yerrvn,  Commentarius 
(L.  Bat.  1677,  4to);  Yisscher,  Verklaaring  (Amst.  1681, 
4to;  also  in  German,  Bremen,  1741,  4to) ; Titclmann 
[Schenck],  Commentarius  (Marp.  1693,  8vo);  Antonio, 
Verklaaring  [includ.  1 Pet.]  (Leoward.  1693,  1697,  4to; 
also  in  German,  Brem.  1700,  fol.) ; Martin,  Commentarius 
(Lipsire,  1694,  1727,  4to) ; Feclit,  Expositio  (Rost.  1696, 
4to);  Nemeth,  Explicatio  (1700,  4to);  Dorsche,  Corn- 
men  tar  ins  (fragment,  in  Gerhard’s  Commentutio,  Francf. 
et  Lips.  1700, 4to) ; Perkins,  Exposition  (in  Works,  Cam- 
bridge, 1701,  etc.,  iii,  479);  Szattmar,  Explicatio  (Fra- 
nce. 1702,  4to) ; Witsius,  Commentarius  (L.  B.  1703, 4to ; 
also  in  Meletemata , p.  323) ; Feustking,  Commentarius 
(Vitemb.  1707,  fol.) ; Quade,  In  Epistolam  et  vitam  Judce 
(Grvph.  1709,  4to);  Creyghton,  Ontleeding  (Haarlem, 
1719,  4 to) ; Weiss,  Commentutio  (llelmstadt,  1723,  4to) ; 
Walt  her,  Exegesis  (Guelpherb.  1724, 4to) ; Buckner,  Er- 
kldrung  (Erfurt,  1727,  4to) ; Reimmann,  Entsiegelung 
(Brmisvv.  1731,  4to);  Yan  Sccie.n,  Judas  antifanaticirs 
(Lub.  1732,  lto);  Seinlcr,  Commentutio  [on  var.  read.] 
(Hal.  1747,  1781,  4to);  Schmidt,  Observationes  (Lipsire, 
1768, 4to);  Herder,  Brief e zweener  Briider  Jesu  (Lcmgo, 
1775,  8vo) ; Pomarius,  Commentarius  (Yitcmb.  1784, 
8vo);  llasse,  Erldnterung  (Jen.  1786,  8vo);  Hartmann, 
Commentutio  (Cothen,  1793,  4 to);  Kahler,  Anmerkungen 
(Pint.  1798,  8vo);  *ll:inlein,  Commentarius  (Erlangen, 
1799, 1801, 1804, 8vro) ; Ilarenberg,  Expositio  (in  Miscell. 
Lips.nov.  iii,  379  sq.);  Elias,  Dissertatio  (Ultraj.  1803, 
8voj;  Dahl,  I)e  a/iStvriq,  etc.  [including  2 Pet.]  (Rost. 
1807,  Hvo);  Laurmann,  Nottn  (Gron.  1818,  8vo);  *Jes- 
sien,  Commentafio  [introductory]  (Lipsire,  1820,  8vo); 
Muir,  Discourses  (Glasg.  1822. 8vo) ; *Arnaud,N«r  I'au- 
thenticite , etc.  (Strasb.  1835,  8vo);  Scharling,  Commen - 
tonus  [includ.  James]  (llavn.  1841,  8vo) ; Brun,  Intro- 
duction (in  French,  Strasb.  1812,  8vn) ; Bickersteth,  Ex- 
position (London,  1846,  12mo) ; Macgillivrav,  Lectures 
(Lond.  1846,  8vo)  ; *Stier,  Auslegung  (Berl.  *1850,  8vo); 


JUDGE 

♦Rampf,  Betrachtung  (Salzburg,  1854,  8vo) ; Gardiner, 
Commentary  (Boston,  1856,  12mo);  Eitschl,  Antinomis- 
ten,  etc.  (in  the  Stud.  u.  Krit.  1861,  p.  103  sq.) ; Schott, 
Erlduterung  (Erlang.  1 863, 8 vo).  See  Epistles,  Cath- 
olic. 

Judex,  Mattileus,  a German  theologian,  and  one 
of  the  principal  writers  of  the  Centuries  of  Magdeburg 
(q.  v.),  was  born  at  Dippoldsforest,  in  Saxony,  Septem- 
ber 22, 1528.  He  was  educated  at  Wittenberg  Univer- 
sity, where  he  took  his  master’s  degree  in  Oct.  1549. 
Shortly  after  he  became  minister  of  the  church  of  St.  Ul- 
ric,  at  Magdeburg,  and  left  this  position  in  1559  to  be- 
come professor  of  divinity  at  the  University  at  Jena ; but 
only  eighteen  months  later  he  was  ousted  from  the 
chair  by  order  of  the  duke  of  Saxony,  on  account  of  his 
opposition  to  the  Synergists,  who  were  in  great  favor 
at  court.  As  a cause  for  his  removal  the  authorities  as- 
signed his  publication  of  De  fuga  Papatus.  He  then 
removed  to  Magdeburg,  but,  like  the  other  authors  of 
the  Centuries,  lie  had  to  eudure  persecution.  lie  was 
finally  obliged  to  quit  Magdeburg,  and  spent  the  remain- 
der of  his  life  at  Wismar.  He  died  May  15, 1564.  See 
Bavle,  Hist.  Did.  s.  v. 

Judge  (-Sid,  shophet ',  usu.  in  the  plur.  L^Sld, 
shophetim',  rulers  rather  than  magistrates,  from  -£23, 
different  from  ’p'H,  to  try  a cause,  see  Gesenius,  s.  v.; 
compare  Bertlioldt’s  Theolog.  Journ.  vii,  1 ; Werner,  in 
Rudelbach’s  Zeitschr.  1844,  iii,  17 ; Sept.,  N.  Test.  Acts 
xiii,  20,  and  Josephus,  Ant,  vi,  5,  4,  tcpirai;  in  Dan.  iii, 
2,  3,  a diff.  Chald.  term  is  employed,  ‘p'ltS'H'lS,  adar- 
gazerin',  chief  judges:  in  two  passages,  Exod.  xxi,  6; 
xxii,  8,  the  Hebrew  magistrates  are  called  elo- 

him',gods,  compare  Psa.lxxxii,  1,6;  John  x,34;  but  see 
Gesenius,  s.  v.).  Besides  being  the  general  title  of  any 
magistrate,  this  name  is  applied  to  those  persons  who 
at  intervals  presided  over  the  affairs  of  the  Israelites 
during  the  four  and  a half  centuries  which  elapsed  from 
the  death  of  Joshua  to  the  accession  of  Saul,  as  recounted 
in  the  book  of  Judges,  and  as  alluded  to  by  the  apostle 
Paul  in  Acts  xiii,  20.  These  judges  were  fifteen  in  num- 
ber: 1.  Othniel;  2.  Eluul;  3.  Shamgar;  4.  Deborah  and 
Barak;  5.  Gideon;  6.  Abimelech;  7.  Tola;  8.  Jair;  9. 
Jephthah;  10.  Ibzan;  11.  Elon ; 12.  Abdon;  13.  Sam- 
son ; 14.  Eli ; 15.  Samuel.  For  an  account  of  the  events 
of  each  judgeship,  see  the  judges  in  their  alphabetical 
place ; for  a discussion  of  the  length  of  the  entire  pe- 
riod, and  the  adjustment  of  the  different  epochs,  see 
Chronology.  In  the  following  statements  on  this  head 
we  chiefly  follow  the  articles  in  Kitto’s  and  Smith’s  dic- 
tionaries, s.  v.  See  also  J edges,  Book  of. 

I.  Earliest  Forms  and  Characteristics  of  the  Magiste- 
rial Office  among  the  IIebreicsK — The  administration  of 
justice  in  all  early  Eastern  nations,  as  among  the  Arabs 
of  the  desert  to  this  day,  rests  with  the  patriarchal  se- 
niors, the  judges  being  the  heads  of  tribes,  or  of  chief 
houses  in  a tribe.  (The  expression 
Numb,  xxv,  14,  is  remarkable,  and  seems  to  mean  the 
patriarchal  senior  of  a subdivision  of  the  tribe : comp.  1 
Chron.  iv,  38;  Judg.  v,  3,  15).  Such,  from  their  ele- 
vated position,  would  have  the  requisite  leisure,  would 
be  able  to  make  their  decisions  respected,  and  through 
the  wider  intercourse  of  superior  station  would  decide 
with  fuller  experience  and  riper  reflection.  Thus,  in  the 
book  of  Job  (xxix,  7,  8,  9),  the  patriarchal  magnate  is 
represented  as  going  forth  “ to  the  gate”  amid  the  re- 
spectful silence  of  elders,  princes,  and  nobles  (compare 
xxxii,  9).  The  actual  chiefs  of  individual  tribes  are 
mentioned  on  various  occasions,  one  as  late  as  the  time 
of  David,  as  preserving  importance  in  the  common- 
wealth (Numb,  vii,  2, 10, 11 ; xvii,  6,  or  17  in  Heb.  text; 
xxxiv,  18;  Josh,  xxii,  14;  so  perh.  Numb,  xvi,  2;  xxi, 
18).  Whether  the  princes  of  the  tribes  mentioned  in  1 
Chron.  xxvii,  16;  xxviii,  1,  are  patriarchal  heads,  or 
merely  chief  men  appointed  by  the  king  to  govern,  is 
not  strictly  certain ; but  it  would  be  foreign  to  all  an- 


JUDGE 


1069 


JUDGE 


cient  Eastern  analogy  to  suppose  that  they  forfeited  the 
judicial  prerogative  before  they  were  overshadowed  by 
the  monarchy,  and  in  David’s  time  this  is  contrary  to  the 
tenor  of  history.  During  the  oppression  of  Egypt  the 
nascent  people  would  necessarily  have  few  questions  at 
law  to  plead,  ami  the  Egyptian  magistrate  would  take 
cognizance  of  theft,  violence,  and  other  matters  of  police. 
Yet  the  question  put  to  Moses  shows  that  “a  prince" 
and  “a  judge”  were  connected  even  then  in  the  popular 
idea  (Exod.  ii,  14;  compare  Niunb.  xvi,  13).  When 
the  people  emerged  from  this  oppression  into  national 
existence,  the  want  of  a machinery  of  judicature  began 
to  press.  The  patriarchal  seniors  did  not  instantly  as- 
sume the  function,  having  probably  been  depressed  by 
bondage  till  rendered  untit  for  it,  not  having  become 
experienced  in  such  matters,  nor  having  secured  the 
confidence  of  their  tribesmen.  Perhaps  tor  these  rea- 
sons Moses  at  first  took  the  whole  burden  of  judicature 
upon  himself,  then  at  the  suggestion  of  Jethro  (Exod. 
xviii,  14-24)  instituted  judges  over  numerically  gradu- 
ated sections  of  the  people.  These  were  chosen  for  their 
moral  fitness,  but  from  Dent,  i,  15, 16,  we  may  infer  that 
they  wrere  taken  from  among  those  to  whom  primogen- 
iture would  have  assigned  it.  Save  in  offences  of  public 
magnitude,  criminal  cases  do  not  appear  to  have  been 
distinguished  from  civil.  The  duty  of  teaching  the 
people  the  knowledge  of  the  law  which  pertained  to  the 
Levites,  doubtless  included  such  instruction  as  would 
assist  the  judgment  of  those  who  were  thus  to  decide 
according  to  it.  The  Levites  were  thus  the  ultimate 
sources  of  ordinary  jurisprudence,  and  perhaps  the 
“ teaching”  aforesaid  may  merely  mean  expounding 
the  law  as  applicable  to  difficult  cases  arising  in  prac- 
tice. Beyond  this  it  is  not  possible  to  indicate  any  di- 
vision of  the  provinces  of  deciding  on  points  of  law  as 
distinct  from  points  of  fact.  The  judges  mentioned  as 
standing  before  Joshua  in  the  great  assemblies  of  the 
people  must  be  understood  as  the  successors  of  those 
chosen  by  Moses,  and  had  doubtless  been  elected  with 
Joshua’s  sanction  from  among  the  same  general  class  of 
patriarchal  seniors  (Josh,  iv,  2, 4;  xxii,  14;  xxiv,  1). 

The  judge  was  reckoned  a sacred  person,  and  secured 
even  from  verbal  injuries.  Seeking  a decision  at  law  is 
called  “ inquiring  of  God”  (Exod.  xviii,  15).  The  term 
“gods”  is  actually  applied  to  judges  (Exod.  xxi,  6; 
compare  Psa.  lxxxii,  1,6).  The  judge  was  told,  “ Thou 
shalt  not  be  afraid  of  the  face  of  men,  for  the  judgment 
is  God’s;”  and  thus,  while  human  instrumentality  was 
indispensable,  the  source  of  justice  was  upheld  as  divine, 
and  the  purity  of  its  administration  only  sank  with  the 
decline  of  religious  feeling.  In  this  spirit  speaks  Psa. 
lxxxii — a lofty  charge  addressed  to  all  who  judge;  com- 
pare the  qualities  regarded  as  essential  at  the  institution 
of  the  office  (Exod.  xviii.  21),  and  the  strict  admonition 
of  Dent,  xvi,  18-20.  But  besides  the  sacred  dignity 
thus  given  to  the  only  royal  function,  which,  under  the 
theocracy,  lay  in  human  hands,  it  was  made  popular  by 
being  vested  in  those  who  led  public  feeling,  and  its  im- 
portance in  the  public  eye  appears  from  such  passages 
as  Psa.  lxix,  12  (comp,  cxix,  23);  lxxxii;  cxlviii,  11 ; 
Prov.  viii,  15;  xxi,  4,  5,  23.  There  could  have  been  no 
considerable  need  for  the  legal  studies  and  expositions 
of  the  Levites  during  the  wanderings  in  the  wilderness, 
while  Moses  was  alive  to  solve  all  questions,  and  while 
the  law  which  they  were  to  expound  was  not  wholly 
delivered.  The  Levites,  too,  had  a charge  of  cattle  to 
look  after  in  that  wilderness  like  the  rest,  and  seem  to 
have  acted  also,  being  Moses’s  own  tribe,  as  supports  to 
his  executive  authority.  But  then  few  of  the  greater 
entanglements  of  property  could  arise  before  the  people 
were  settled  in  their  possession  of  Canaan.  Thus  they 
were  disciplined  in  smaller  matters,  and  under  Moses’s 
own  eye,  for  greater  ones.  When,  however,  the  com- 
mandment, “Judges  and  officers  shalt  thou  make  thee 
in  all  thy  gates”  (Deut.  xvi,  18),  came  to  be  fulfilled  in 
Canaan,  there  were  the  following  sources  from  which 
those  officials  might  be  supplied:  1st,  the  ex-officio 


judges,  or  their  successors,  as  chosen  by  Moses;  2dlv, 
any  surplus  left  of  patriarchal  seniors  when  these  were 
taken  out  (as  has  been  shown  from  Deut.  i,  15, 16)  from 
that  class ; and,  3dly,  the  Levites.  On  what  principle 
the  non-Lcvitical  judges  were  chosen  after  divine  super- 
intendence was  interrupted  at  Joshua’s  death  is  not 
clear.  A simple  way  would  have  been  for  the  existing 
judges  in  every  town,  etc.,  to  choose  their  own  col- 
leagues, as  vacancies  fell,  from  among  the  limited  num- 
ber of  persons  who,  being  heads  of  families,  were  com- 
petent. Generally  speaking,  the  reputation  for  superior 
wealth,  as  some  guarantee  against  facilities  for  corrup- 
tion, would  determine  the  choice  of  a judge,  and,  taken 
in  connection  with  personal  qualities,  would  tend  to 
limit  the  choice  to  probably  a very  few  persons  in  prac- 
tice. The  supposition  that  judicature  will  always  be 
provided  for  is  carried  through  all  the  hooks  of  the  Law 
(see  Exod.  xxi,  6 ; xxii ; Lev.  xix,  15;  Numb,  xxxv,  24; 
Deut.  i,  16;  xvi,  18;  xxv,  1).  All  that  we  know  of  the 
facts  of  later  history  confirms  the  supposition.  The  He- 
brews were  sensitive  as  regards  the  administration  of 
justice;  nor  is  the  free  spirit  of  their  early  common- 
wealth in  anything  more  manifest  than  in  the  resent- 
ment which  followed  the  venal  or  partial  judge.  The 
fact  that  justice  reposed  on  a popular  basis  of  adminis- 
tration largely  contributed  to  keep  up  this  spirit  of  in- 
dependence, which  is  the  ultimate  check  on  all  perver- 
sions of  the  tribunal.  The  popular  aristocracy  (if  we 
may  so  term  it)  of  heads  of  tribes,  sections  of  tribes,  or 
families,  is  found  to  fall  into  two  main  orders  of  varying 
nomenclature,  and  rose  from  the  capite  const,  or  mere 
citizens,  upward.  The  more  common  name  for  the 
higher  order  is  “princes,”  and  for  the  lower,  “elders” 
(Judg.  viii,  14;  Exod.  ii,  14;  Job  xxix,  7,  8,  9 ; Ezra  x, 
8).  These  orders  were  the  popular  element  of  judica- 
ture. On  the  other  hand,  the  Levitical  body  was  im- 
bued with  a keen  sense  of  allegiance  to  God  as  the  Au- 
thor of  Law,  and  to  the  Covenant  as  his  embodiment  of 
it,  and  soon  gained  whatever  forensic  experience  and 
erudition  those  simple  times  could  yield;  hence  they 
brought  to  the  judicial  task  the  legal  acumen  and  sense 
of  general  principles  which  complemented  the  ruder  lay 
element.  Thus  the  Hebrews  really  enjoyed  much  of 
the  virtue  of  a system  which  allots  separate  provinces 
to  judge  and  jury,  although  we  cannot  trace  any  such 
line  of  separation  in  their  functions,  save  in  so  far  as  has 
been  indicated  above.  To  return  to  the  first  or  popular 
branch,  there  is  reason  to  think,  from  the  second  con- 
currence of  phraseology  amid  much  diversity,  that  in 
every  cit3r  these  two  ranks  of  “ princes”  and  “ elders” 
had  their  analogies,  and  that  a variable  number  of  heads 
of  families  and  groups  of  families,  in  two  ranks,  were 
popularly  recognised,  whether  with  or  without  any 
form  of  election,  as  charged  with  the  duty  of  adminis- 
tering justice.  Succotli  (Judg.  viii,  14)  may  be  taken 
as  an  example.  Evidently  the  ex-officio  judges  of  Mo- 
ses’s choice  would  have  left  their  successors  when  the 
tribe  of  Gad,  to  which  Succoth  pertained  (Josh,  xiii, 
27),  settled  in  its  territory  and  towns:  and  what  would 
be  more  simple  than  that  the  whole  number  of  judges 
in  that  tribe  should  be  allotted  to  its  towns  in  propor- 
tion to  their  size?  As  such  judges  were  mostly  the 
head  men  by  genealogy,  they  would  fall  into  their  nat- 
ural places,  and  symmetry  would  be  preserved.  The 
Levites  also  were  apportioned,  on  the  whole,  equally 
among  the  tribes;  and  if  they  preserved  their  limits, 
there  were  probably  few  parts  of  Palestine  beyond  a 
day’s  journey  from  a Levitical  city. 

One  great  hold  which  the  priesthood  had,  in  their  ju- 
risdiction, upon  men’s  ordinary  life  was  the  custody  in 
the  sanctuary  of  the  standard  weights  and  measures,  to 
which,  in  cases  of  dispute,  reference  was  doubtless  made. 
It  is,  however,  reasonable  to  suppose  that  in  most  towns 
sufficiently  exact  models  of  them  for  all  ordinary  ques- 
tions would  be  kept,  since  to  refer  to  the  sanctuary  at 
Shiloh,  Jerusalem,  etc.,  in  every  case  of  dispute  between 
dealers  would  be  nugatory  (Exod.  xxx,  13;  Nurab.iii,47; 


1070 


JUDGE 


JUDGE 

Szek.  xlv,  12).  Above  all  these,  the  high-priest  in  the 
ante-regal  period  was  the  resort  in  difficult  cases  (Deut. 
xvii,  12),  as  the  chief  jurist  of  the  nation,  and  one  who 
would,  in  case  of  need, he  perhaps  oracularly  directed; 
vet  we  hear  of  none  acting  as  judge  save  Eli,  nor  is  any 
judicial  act  recorded  of  him— though  perhaps  his  not  re- 
straining his  sons  is  meant  to  be  noticed  as  a failure  in 
his  judicial  duties.  Now  the  judicial  authority  of  any 
such  supreme  tribunal -must  have  wholly  lapsed  at  the 
time  of  the  events  recorded  in  Judg.  xix.  It  should  not 
be  forgotten  that  in  some  cases  of  ‘‘blood”  the  “con- 
gregation” themselves  were  to  “judge”  (Numb,  xxxv, 
24),  and  that  the  appeal  of  Judg.  xx,  4-7  was  thus  in 
the  regular  course  of  constitutional  law.  It  is  also  a 
fact  of  some  weight,  negatively,  that  none  of  the  special 
deliverers  called  judges  was  of  priestly  lineage,  or  even 
became  as  much  noted  as  Deborah,  a woman.  This 
seems  to  show  that  any  central  action  of  the  high-priest 
on  national  unity  was  null,  and  of  this  supremacy,  had 
it  existed  in  force,  the  judicial  prerogative  was  the  main 
element.  Difficult  cases  would  include  cases  of  appeal, 
and  we  may  presume  that,  save  so  far  as  the  authority 
of  those  special  deliverers  made  itself  felt,  there  was  no 
judge  in  the  last  resort  from  Joshua  to  Samuel.  In- 
deed, the  current  phrase  of  those  deliverers  that  they 
“judged”  Israel  during  their  term,  shows  which  branch 
of  their  authority  was  most  in  request,  and  the  demand 
of  the  people  for  a king  vras,  in  the  first  instance,  that 
he  might  “judge  them,”  rather  than  that  he  might 
“light  their  battles”  (1  Sam.  viii,  5,20). 

II.  Peculiar  Traits  and  Functions  of  the  11  Judges"  in 
the  Period  designated  by  their  Rule. — The  station  and 
office  of  these  shophetini  are  involved  in  great  obscurity, 
partly  from  the  want  of  clear  intimations  in  the  history 
in  which  their  exploits  and  government  are  recorded, 
and  partly  from  the  absence  of  parallels  in  the  history 
of  other  nations  by  w'hicli  our  notions  might  be  assist- 
ed, The  offices  filled  by  Moses  and  Joshua,  whose  pres- 
ence was  so  essential  for  the  time  and  the  occasion,  were 
not  at  all  involved  in  the  general  machinery  of  the  He- 
brew government.  They  were  specially  appointed  for 
particular  services,  for  the  performance  of  which  they 
were  invested  with  extraordinary  powers;  but  when 
their  mission  was  accomplished,  society  reverted  to  its 
permanent  institutions  and  its  established  forms  of  gov- 
ernment. As  above  seen,  every  tribe  had  its  own  he- 
reditary chief  or  “prince,”  who  presided  over  its  affairs, 
administered  justice  in  all  ordinary  cases,  and  led  the 
troops  in  time  of  war.  Ills  station  resembled  that  of 
the  Arabian  emirs,  or  rather,  perhaps,  of  the  khans  of 
the  Tartar  tribes  inhabiting  Persia  and  the  countries 
lurtlier  east,  lie  was  assisted  in  these  important  duties 
by  the  subordinate  officers,  the  chiefs  of  families,  who 
formed  his  council  in  such  matters  of  policy  as  affected 
their  particular  district,  supported  his  decisions  in  civil 
or  criminal  inquiries,  and  commanded  under  him  in  the 
field  of  battle  (Numb,  xxvi,  xxvii;  Josh,  vii,  16-18). 
I bis  was,  in  fact,  the  old  patriarchal  government,  to 
which  the  Hebrews  were  greatly  attached.  It  was  an 
institution  suited  to  the  wants  of  men  who  live  dispersed 
in  loosely  connected  tribes,  and  not  to  the  wants  and 
exigencies  of  a nation.  It  was  in  principle  segregative, 
not  aggregative,  and  although  there  are  traces  of  uni- 
ted agreement  through  a congress  of  delegates,  or  rather 
of  national  chiefs  and  elders  of  the  tribes,  this  was  an 
inefficient  instrument  of  general  government,  seeing  that 
it  was  only  applicable  or  .applied  to  great  occasions,  and 
could  have  no  bearing  on  the  numerous  questions  of  an 
administrative  nature  which  arise  from  day  to  day  in 
every  state,  and  which  there  should  somewhere  exist  the 
power  to  arrange  and  determine.  This  defect  of  the 
general  government  it  was  one  of  the  objects  of  the  tlie- 
ocratical  institutions  to  remedy.  Jehovah  had  taken 
upon  himself  the  function  of  king  of  the  chosen  people, 
and  he  dwelt  among  them  m his  palace -tabernacle. 
Here  he  w-as  always  ready,  through  his  priest,  to  coun- 
sel them  in  matters  of  general  interest,  as  well  as  in 


those  having  reference  only  to  particular  tribes ; and  to 
his  court  they  were  all  required  by  the  law  to  repair 
three  times  every  year.  Here,  then,  was  the  principle 
of  a general  administration,  calculated  and  designed  to 
unite  the  tribes  into  a nation  by  giving  them  a common 
government  in  all  the  higher  and  more  general  branches 
of  administration,  and  a common  centre  of  interest  for 
all  the  political  and  ecclesiastical  relations  of  the  com- 
munity. It  was  on  this  footing  that  the  law  destined 
the  government  of  the  Hebrews  to  proceed,  after  the  pe- 
culiar functions  of  the  legislator  and  the  conqueror  had 
been  fulfilled.  See  Theocracy. 

The  fact  is,  however,  that,  through  the  perversity  of 
the  people,  this  settlement  of  the  general  government  on 
theocratical  principles  w’as  not  carried  out  in  its  proper 
form  and  extent,  and  it  is  in  this  neglect  we  are  to  seek 
the  necessity  for  those  officers  called  judges  who  were 
from  time  to  time  raised  up  to  correct  some  of  the  evils 
which  resulted  from  it.  It  is  very  evident  from  the 
whole  history  of  the  judges  that,  after  the  death  of 
Joshua,  the  Israelites  threw  themselves  back  upon  the 
segregative  principles  of  their  government  by  tribes, 
and  all  but  utterly  neglected,  and  for  a long  period  did 
utterly  neglect,  the ’rules  and  usages  on  which  the  gen- 
eral government  was  established.  There  was,  in  fact, 
no  human  power  adequate  to  enforce  them.  They  were 
good  in  themselves,  they  were  gracious,  they  conferred 
high  privileges,  but  they  were  enforced  by  no  sufficient 
authority.  No  one  was  amenable  to  any  tribunal  for 
neglecting  the  annual  feasts,  or  for  not  referring  the  di- 
rection of  public  affairs  to  the  divine  King.  Omissions 
on  these  points' involved  the  absence  of  the  divine  pro- 
tection and  blessing,  and  were  left  to  be  punished  by 
their  consequences.  The  man  who  obeyed  in  this  and 
other  things  wras  blessed ; the  man  who  did  not  was  not 
blessed ; and  general  obedience  was  rewarded  with  na- 
tional blessing,  and  general  disobedience  with  national 
punishment.  The  enormities  and  transgressions  into 
which  the  people  fell  in  consequence  of  such  neglect, 
which  left  them  an  easy  prey  to  idolatrous  influences, 
are  fully  recorded  in  the  Hook  of  Judges.  The  people 
could  not  grasp  the  idea  of  a divine  and  invisible  king; 
they  could  not  bring  themselves  to  recur  to  him  in  all 
those  cases  in  which  the  judgment  of  a human  king 
would  have  determined  the  course  of  action,  or  in  which 
his  arm  would  have  worked  for  their  deliverance.  There- 
fore it  was  that  God  allowed  them  judges  in  the  persons 
of  faithful  men,  who  acted  for  the  most  part  as  agents  of 
the  divine  will — regents  of  the  invisible  King,  and  who, 
holding  their  commission  directly  from  him  or  with  his 
sanction,  vrould  be  more  inclined  to  act  as  dependent 
vassals  of  Jehovah  than  kings,  who,  as  members  of  royal 
dynasties,  would  come  to  reign  with  notions  of  indepen- 
dent rights  and  royal  privileges,  which  would  draw 
away  their  attention  from  their  true  place  in  the  theoc- 
racy. In  this  greater  dependence  of  the  judges  upon 
the  divine  King  we  see  the  secret  of  their  institution. 
The  Israelites  were  disposed  to  rest  upon  their  sepa- 
rate interests  as  tribes,  and,  having  thus  allowed  the 
standing  general  government  to  remain  inoperative 
through  disuse,  they  would,  in  case  of  emergency,  have 
been  disposed  “ to  make  themselves  a king  like  the  na- 
tions” had  their  attention  not  been  directed  to  the  ap- 
pointment of  officers  who'se  authority  could  rest  on  no 
tangible  right  apart  from  character  and  services,  which, 
with  the  temporary  nature  of  their  power,  rendered  their 
functions  more  accordant  with  the  principles  of  the  the- 
ocracy than  those  of  guy  other  public  officers  could  be. 
It  is  probably  in  this  adaptation  to  the  peculiar  circum- 
stances of  the  Hebrew  theocracy  that  we  shall  discover 
the  reason  of  our  inability  to  find  any  similar  office 
among  other  nations.  In  being  thus  peculiar  it  resem- 
bled the  dictatorship  among  the  Romans,  to  which  of- 
fice, indeed,  that  of  the  judges  has  been  compared,  and 
perhaps  this  parallel  is  the  nearest  that  can  be  found. 
But  there  is  this  great  difference,  that  the  dictator  laid 
down  his  power  as  soon  as  the  crisis  which  had  called 


JUDGE 


1071 


JUDGE 


for  its  exercise  had  passed  away,  and  in  no  case  could 
this  unwonted  supremacy  be  retained  beyond  a limited 
time  (Livy,  ix,  34) ; but  the  Hebrew  judge  remained  in- 
vested with  his  high  authority  the  whole  period  of  his 
life,  and  is  therefore  usually  described  by  the  sacred  his- 
torian as  presiding  to  the  end  of  his  days  over  the  tribes 
of  Israel,  amid  the  peace  and  security  which  his  milita- 
ry skill  and  counsels  had,  under  the  divine  blessing,  re- 
stored to  the  land. 

It  is  usual  to  consider  the  judges  as  commencing  their 
career  with  military  exploits  to  deliver  Israel  from  for- 
eign oppression,  but  this  is  by  no  means  invariably  the 
case.  Eli  and  Samuel  were  not  military  men ; Deborah 
judged  Israel  before  she  planned  the  war  against  Jabin ; 
and  of  Jair,  Ibzan,  Elon,  and  Abdon,  it  is  at  least  uncer- 
tain whether  they  ever  held  any  military  command. 
In  many  cases  it  is  true  that  military  achievements 
were  the  means  by  which  they  elevated  themselves  to 
the  rank  of  judges ; but  in  general  the  appointment 
may  be  said  to  have  varied  with  the  exigencies  of  the 
times,  and  with  the  particular  circumstances  which  in 
times  of  trouble  would  draw  the  public  attention  to  per- 
sons who  appeared  suited  by  their  gifts  and  influence 
to  advise  in  matters  of  general  concernment,  to  decide 
in  questions  arising  between  tribe  and  tribe,  to  admin- 
ister public  affairs,  and  to  appear  as  their  recognised 
head  in  their  intercourse  with  their  neighbors  and  op- 
pressors. As  we  find  that  many  of  these  judges  arose 
during  times  of  oppression,  it  seems  to  us  that  this  last 
circumstance,  which  has  never  been  taken  into  account, 
must  have  had  a remarkable  influence  in  the  appoint- 
ment of  the  judge.  Foreigners  could  not  be  expected 
to  enter  into  the  peculiarities  of  the  Hebrew  constitu- 
tion, and  would  expect  to  receive  the  proposals,  remon- 
strances, or  complaints  of  the  people  through  some  per- 
son representing  the  whole  nation,  or  that  part  of  it  to 
which  their  intercourse  applied.  The  law  provided  no 
such  officer  except  in  the  high-priest ; but  as  the  He- 
brews themselves  did  not  recognise  the  true  operation 
of  their  theocracy,  much  less  were  strangers  likely  to  do 
so.  On  the  officer  they  appointed  to  represent  the  body 
of  the  people,  under  circumstances  which  compelled 
them  to  deal  with  foreigners  mightier  than  themselves, 
would  naturally  devolve  the  command  of  the  army  in 
war,  and  the  administration  of  .justice  in  peace.  This 
last  was  among  ryicient  nations,  and  it  is  still  in  the 
East,  regarded  as  the  first  and  most  important  duty  of 
a ruler,  and  the  interference  of  the  judges  was  probably 
confined  to  the  cases  arising  between  different  tribes,  for 
which  the  ordinary  magistrates  would  find  it  difficult  to 
secure  due  authority  to  their  decisions. 

In  nearly  all  the  instances  recorded  the  appointment 
seems  to  have  been  by  the  free,  unsolicited  choice  of  the 
people.  The  election  of  Jephthah,  who  was  nominated 
as  the  fittest  man  for  the  existing  emergency,  probably 
resembled  that  which  was  usually  followed  on  such  oc- 
casions; and  probably,  as  in  his  case,  the  judge,  in  ac- 
cepting the  office,  took  care  to  make  such  stipulations 
as  he  deemed  necessary.  The  only  cases  of  direct  divine 
appointment  are  those  of  Gideon  and  Samson,  and  the 
last  stood  in  the  peculiar  position  of  having  been  from 
before  his  birth  ordained  “to  begin  to  deliver  Israel.” 
Deborah  was  called  to  deliver  Israel,  but  was  already  a 
judge.  Samuel  was  called  by  the  Lord  to  be  a prophet, 
but  not  a judge,  which  ensued  from  the  high  gifts  which 
the  people  recognised  as  dwelling  in  him ; and  as  to  Eli. 
the  office  of  judge  seems  to  have  devolved  naturally,  or. 
rather,  ex-officio , upon  him ; and  his  case  seems  to  be 
the  only  one  in  which  the  high-priest  appears  in  the 
character  which  the  theocratical  institutions  designed 
for  him. 

The  following  clear  summary  of  their  duties  and  priv- 
ileges is  from  Jahn  (Bibl.  Archaol.  II,  i,  § 22  sq. ; Heb. 
Commonwealth , Stowe’s  transh,  § 23) : “ The  office  of 
judges  or  regents  was  held  during  life,  but  it  was  not 
hereditary,  neither  could  they  appoint  their  successors. 
Their  authority  was  limited  by  the  law  alone ; and  in 


doubtful  eases  they  were  directed  to  consult  the  divine 
King  through  the  priest  by  Urim  and  Thummim  (Xumb. 
xxvii,  21).  They  were  not  obliged  in  common  cases  to 
ask  advice  of  the  ordinary  rulers;  it  was  sufficient  if 
these  did  not  remonstrate  against  the  measures  of  the 
judge.  In  important  emergencies,  however,  they  con- 
voked a general  assembly  of  the  rulers,  over  which  they 
presided  and  exercised  a powerful  influence.  They  could 
issue  orders,  but  not  enact  laws ; they  could  neither  levy 
taxes  nor  appoint  officers,  except  perhaps  in  the  army. 
Their  authority  extended  only  over  those  tribes  bv 
whom  they  had  been  elected  or  acknowledged ; for  it  is 
clear  that  several  of  the  judges  presided  over  separate 
tribes.  There  was  no  income  attached  to  their  office, 
nor  was  there  any  income  appropriated  to  them,  unless 
it  might  be  a larger  share  in  the  spoils,  and  those  pres- 
ents which  were  made  them  as  testimonials  of  respect 
(Judg.  viii,  24).  They  bore  no  external  marks  of  dig- 
nity, and  maintained  no  retinue  of  courtiers,  though 
some  of  them  were  very  opulent.  They  were  not  only 
simple  in  their  manners,  moderate  in  their  desires,  and 
free  from  avarice  and  ambition,  but  noble  and  magnan- 
imous men,  who  felt  that  whatever  they  did  for  their 
country  was  above  all  reward,  and  coidd  not  be  recom- 
pensed; who  desired  merely  to  promote  the  public  good, 
and  who  chose  rather  to  deserve  well  of  their  country 
than  to  be  enriched  by  its  wealth.  This  exalted  patri- 
otism, like  everything  else  ■ connected  with  politics  in 
the  theocratical  state  of  the  Hebrews,  was  partly  of  a 
Teligious  character,  and  these  regents  always  conducted 
themselves  as  the  officers  of  God;  in  all  their  enter- 
prises they  relied  upon  him,  and  their  only  care  was 
that  their  countrymen  should  acknowledge  the  authori- 
ty of  Jehovah,  their  invisible  king  (Judg.  viii,  22  sq.; 
compare  Heb.  xi).  Still  they  were  not  without  faults, 
neither  are  they  so  represented  by  their  historians; 
they  relate,  on  the  contrary,  with  the  utmost  frankness, 
the  great  sins  of  which  some  of  them  were  guilt}-.  They 
were  not  merely  deliverers  of  the  state  from  a foreign 
yoke,  but  destroyers  of  idolatry,  foes  of  pagan  vices, 
promoters  of  the  knowledge  of  God,  of  religion,  and  of 
morality;  restorers  of  theocracy  in  the  minds  of  the 
Hebrews,  and  powerful  instruments  of  divine  Provi- 
dence in  the  promotion  of  the  gr^rit  design  of  preserving 
the  Hebrew  constitution,  and  by  that  means  of  rescuing 
the  true  religion  from  destruction.  . . . By  comparing 
the  periods  during  which  the  Hebrews  were  oppressed 
by  their  enemies  with  those  in  which  they  were  inde- 
pendent and  governed  by  their  own  constitution,  it  is 
apparent  that  the  nation  in  general  experienced  much 
more  prosperity  than  adversity  in  the  time  of  the  judges. 
Their  dominion  continued  four  hundred  and  fifty  years; 
but  the  whole  time  of  foreign  oppression  amounts  only 
to  one  hundred  and  eleven  years,  scarcely  a fourth  part 
of  that  period.  Even  during  these  one  hundred  and 
eleven  years  the  whole  nation  was  seldom  under  the 
yoke  at  the  same  time,  but.  for  the  most  part,  separate 
tribes  only  were  held  in  servitude;  nor  were  their  op- 
pressions always  very  severe;  and  all  the  calamities 
terminated  in  the  advantage  and  glory  of  the  people  as 
soon  as  they  abolished  idolatry  and  returned  to  their 
king,  Jehovah.  Neither  was  the  nation  in  such  a 
state  of  anarchy  at  this  time  as  has  generally  been  sup- 
posed. There  were  regular  judicial  tribunals  at  which 
justice  coidd  be  obtained,  and  when  there  was  no  su- 
preme regent,  the  public  welfare  was  provided  for  by 
the  ordinary  rulers”  (Ruth  iv,  1-11;  Judg.  viii,  22;  x, 
17, 18;  xi,  1—1 1 ; l Sam.  iv,  1 ; vii,  1,  2). 

See  generally  Buddei  Hist.  I*.  T.  i,  039  sq. ; Zeltner, 
De  adoleseentia  reip.  Israel.  (Altorf,  169G);  Bauer,  II eb. 
Gesch.  ii,  34  sq. ; Hess,  Gesch.  Josua's  u.  d.  Heerjuhrer 
( Ziir.  1779),  ii ; Paulus.  Theol.-exeget . Conservator,  ii,  180 
sq. ; Doring,  Das  Zeitalter  der  Richter  (Freiburg,  1833) ; 
j Ewald,  Isr.  Gesch.  ii,  3G2  sq. ; Stanley,  Hist,  of  Jewish 
Ch urch,  lect.  xiii. 

I III.  The  Judicial  Office  in  later  Periods  among  the  II e- 
I brews. — The  magisterial  functions  of  the  priesthood  be- 


JUDGE 


JUDGE  10 

ing,  it  may  be  presumed,  in  abeyance  during  the  period 
of  the  judges,  seem  to  have  merged  in  the  monarchy. 
The  kingdom  of  Saul  suffered  too  severely  from  exter- 
nal foes  to  allow  civil  matters  much  prominence.  Hence 
of  his  only  two  recorded  judicial  acts,  the  one  (1  Sam. 
xi,  13)  was  the  mere  remission  of  a penalty  popularly 
demanded ; the  other  the  pronouncing  of  a sentence  (ib. 
xiv,  44, 45),  which,  if  it  was  sincerely  intended,  was  over- 
ruled in  turn  by  the  right  sense  of  the  people.  In  Da- 
vid’s reign  it  was  evidently  the  rule  for  the  king  to  hear 
causes  in  person,  and  not  merely  be  passively,  or  even 
by  deputy  (though  this  might  also  he  included),  the 
“ fountain  of  justice”  to  his  people.  For  this  purpose, 
perhaps,  it  was  prospectively  ordained  that  the  king 
should  “ write  him  a copy  of  the  law,”  and  “read  there- 
in all  the  days  of  his  life”  (Deut.  xvii,  18,  19).  The 
same  class  of  cases  which  were  reserved  lor  Moses  would 
probably  fall  to  his  lot,  and  the  high-priest  was,  of 
course,  ready  to  assist  the  monarch.  This  is  further 
presumable  from  the  fact  that  no  officer  analogous  to  a 
chief  justice  ever  appears  under  the  kings.  It  has  been 
supposed  that  the  subjection  of  all  Israel  to  David’s 
sway  caused  an  influx  of  such  cases,  and  that  advantage 
was  artfully  taken  of  this  by  Absalom  (2  Sam.  xv,  1-4) ; 
hut  the  rate  at  which  cases  were  disposed  of  can  hardly 
have  been  slower  among  the  ten  tribes  after  David  had 
become  their  king,  than  it  was  during  the  previous  an- 
archy. It  is  more  probable  that  during  David’s  uni- 
formly successful  wars  wealth  and  population  increased 
rapidly,  and  civil  cases  multiplied  fastar  than  the  king, 
occupied  with  war,  could  attend  to  them,  especially  when 
the  summary  process  customary  in  the  East  is  consid- 
ered. Perhaps  the  arrangements  mentioned  in  1 Chron. 
xxiii,  4 ; xxvi,  29  (compare  v,  32,  “ rulers”  probably  in- 
cluding judges),  of  the  6000  Levites  acting  as  “officers 
and  judges,”  and  amongst  them  specially  “Clienaniah 
and  his  sons,”  with  others,  for  the  trans-Jordanic  tribes, 
may  have  been  made  to  meet  the  need  of  suitors.  In 
Solomon’s  character,  whose  reign  of  peace  would  surely 
be  fertile  in  civil  questions,  the  “wisdom  to  judge”  was 
the  tilting  first  quality  (1  Kings  iii,  9;  comp.  Psa.  lxxii, 
1-4).  As  a judge  Solomon  shines  “in  all  his  glory”  (1 
Kings  iii,  16,  etc.).  No  criminal  was  too  powerful  for 
his  justice,  as  some  had  been  for  his  father’s  (2  Sam.  iii. 
39,  1 Kings  ii,  5,  6,  33,  34).  The  examples  of  direct 
royal  exercise  of  judicial  authority  are  2 Sam.  i,  15;  iv, 
9-12,  where  sentence  is  summarily  executed,  and  the 
supposed  case  of  2 Sam.  xiv,  1-21.  The  denunciation 
of  2 Sam.  xii,  5,  6,  though  not  formally  judicial,  is  yet 
in  the  same  spirit.  Solomon  similarly  proceeded  in  the 
cases  of  Joah  and  Shimei  (1  Kings  ii,  34, 46 ; compare  2 
Kings  xiv,  5,  6).  It  is  likely  that  royalty  in  Israel  was 
ultimately  unfavorable  to  the  local  independence  con- 
nected with  the  judicature  of  the  “princes”  and  “eld- 
ers” in  the  territory  and  cities  of  each  tribe.  The  ten- 
dency of  the  monarchy  was  doubtless  to  centralize,  and 
wo  read  of  large  numbers  of  king’s  officers  appointed  to 
this  and  cognate  duties  (1  Chron.  xxiii,  4 ; xxvi, 29-32). 
If  the  general  machinery  of  justice  had  been,  as  is  rea- 
sonable to  think,  deranged  or  retarded  during  a period 
of  anarchy,  the  Levites  afforded  the  fittest  materials  for 
its  roconstitut  ion.  Being  to  some  extent  detached,  both 
locally,  and  by  special  duties,  exemptions,  etc.,  from  the 
mass  of  the  population,  they  were  more  easily  brought 
to  the  steady  routine  which  justice  requires,  and,  what 
is  no  less  important,  were,  in  case  of  neglect  of  duty, 
more  at  t lie  mercy  of  the  king  (as  shown  in  the  case,  of 
the  priests  at  Nob,  1 Sam.  xxii,  17).  lienee  it  is  prob- 
able that  the  Levites  generally  superseded  the  local  eld- 
ers in  the  administration  of  justice.  But  subsequently, 
when  the  Levites  withdrew  from  the  kingdom  of  the 
ten  tribes,  judicial  elders  probably  again  filled  the  gap. 
Thus  they  conducted  the  mock  trial  of  Naboth  (1  Kings 
xxi,  8-13).  There  is  in  2 Chron.  xix.  5,  etc.,  a special 
notice  of  a reappointment  of  judges  by  Jehoshaphat,  and 
of  a distinct  court,  of  appeal,  perhaps,  at  Jerusalem,  com- 
posed of  Levitieal  and  of  lay  elements.  In  the  same 


72 

place  (as  also  in  a previous  one,  1 Chron.  xxvi,  32)  oc- 
curs a mention  of  “ the  king’s  matters”  as  a branch  of 
jurisprudence.  The  rights  of  the  prerogative  having  a 
constant  tendency  to  encroach,  and  needing  continual 
regulation,  these  may  have  grown  probably  into  a de- 
partment somewhat  like  the  English  Exchequer. 

One  more  change  is  noticeable  in  the  pre-Babylonian 
period.  The  “ princes”  constantly  appear  as  a powerful 
political  body,  increasing  in  influence  and  privileges,  and 
having  a fixed  centre  of  action  at  Jernsualem,  till,  in 
the  reign  of  Zedekiah,  they  seem  to  exercise  some  of 
the  duties  of  a privy  council,  and  especially  a collective 
jurisdiction  (2  Chron.  xxviii,  21;  Jer.  xxvi,  10,  16). 
These  “ princes”  are  probably  the  heads  of  great  houses 
in  Judah  and  Benjamin,  whose  fathers  had  once  been 
the  pillars  of  local  jurisdiction,  but  who,  through  the 
attractions  of  a court,  and  probably  also  under  the  con- 
stant alarm  of  hostile  invasion,  became  gradually  resi- 
dents in  the  capital,  and  formed  an  oligarchy  which  drew* 
to  itself,  amidst  the  growing  weakness  of  the  latter  mon- 
archy, whatever  vigor  was  left  in  the  state,  and  en- 
croached on  the  sovereign  attribute  of  justice.  The 
employment  in  offices  of  trust  and  emolument  would 
tend  also  in  the  same  way,  and  such  chief  families  would 
probably  monopolize  such  employment.  Hence  the  con- 
stant burden  of  the  prophetic  strain,  denouncing  the  neg- 
lect, the  perversion,  the  corruption  of  judicial  function- 
aries (Isa.  i,  17, 21 ; v,  7;  x,  2 ; xxviii,  7 ; lvi,  1 ; lix,  4 ; 
Jer.ii,8;  v,  1 ; vii,5;  xxi, 12;  Ezek.xxii,27;  xiv, 8, 9; 
IIos.  v,  10 ; vii,  5,  7 ; Amos  v,  7,  15,  24 ; vi,  12 ; Hah.  1, 
4,  etc.).  Still,  although  far  changed  from  its  broad  and 
simple  basis  in  the  earlier  period,  the  administration  of 
justice  had  little  resembling  the  set  and  rigid  system  of 
the  Sanhedrim  of  later  times.  This  last  change  arose 
fr5m  the  fact  that  the  patriarchal  seniority,  degenerate 
and  corrupted  as  it  became  before  the  captivity,  was  by 
that  event  broken  up,  and  a new  basis  of  judicature  had 
to  he  sought  for.  See  Sanhedrim. 

IV.  Judicial  Customs. — With  regard  to  the  forms  of 
procedure,  little  more  is  known  than  may  be  gathered 
from  the  two  examples,  Until  iv,  2.  of  a civil,  and  1 
Kings  xxi,  8-14,  of  a criminal  character;  to  which,  as  a 
specimen  of  royal  summary  jurisdiction,  may  be  added 
the  well-known  “judgment”  of  Solomon.  Boaz  appar- 
ently empanels,  as  it  were,  the  first  ten  “elders”  whom 
he  meets  “ in  the  gate,”  the  well-known  site  of  the  Ori- 
ental court,  and  cites  the  other  party  by  “Ho,  such  a 
one and  the  people  appear  to  he  invoked  as  attesting 
the  legality  of  the  proceeding.  The  whole  affair  bears 
an  extemporaneous  aspect,  which  may,  however,  be 
merely  the  result  of  the  terseness  of  the  narrative.  In 
Job  ix,  19,  we  have  a wish  expressed  that  a “time  to 
plead”  might  he  “ set”  (comp,  the  phrase  of  Koman  law, 
diem  dicere').  In  the  case  of  the  involuntary  homicide 
seeking  the  city  of  refuge,  he  was  to  make  out  his  case 
to  the  satisfaction  of  its  elders  (Josh,  xx,  4),  and  this 
failing,  or  the  congregation  deciding  against  his  claim 
to  sanctuary  there  (though  how  its  sense  was  to  be 
taken  does  not  appear),  he  was  not  put  to  deatli  by  act 
of  public  justice,  hut  left  to  the  “avenger  of  blood” 
(Deut.  xix,  12).  The  expressions  between  “blood  and 
blood,”  between  “ plea  and  plea”  (Deut.  xvii,  8),  indicate 
a presumption  of  legal  intricacy  arising,  the  latter  ex- 
pression seeming  to  imply  something  like  what  we  call 
a “cross-suit.”  We  may  infer  from  the'  scantiness,  or, 
rather,  almost  entire  absence  of  direction  as  regards  forms 
of  procedure,  that  the  legislator  was  content  to  leave 
them  to  be  provided  for  as  the  necessity  for  them  arose, 
it  being  impossible  by  any  jurisprudential  devices  to  an- 
ticipate chicane.  It  is  an  interesting  question  how  far 
judges  were  allowed  to  receive  fees  of  suitors ; Michaelis 
reasonably  presumes  that  none  were  allowed  or  custom- 
ary, and  it  seems,  from  the  words  of  1 Sam.  xii,  3,  that 
such  transactions  would  have  been  regarded  as  corrupt. 
There  is  another  question  how  far  advocates  were  usual. 
There  is  no  reason  to  think  that,  until  the  period  of 
Greek  influence,  when  we  meet  with  words  based  on  ovv- 


JUDGES,  BOOK  OF  10 

i)yopoQ  and  irapaKXtjrog,  any  professed  class  of  plead- 
ers existed.  Yet  passages  abound  in  which  the  plead- 
ing of  the  cause  of  those  who  are  unable  to  plead  their 
own  is  spoken  of  as,  what  it  indeed  was,  a noble  act  of 
charity;  and  the  expression  has  even  (which  shows  the 
popularity  of  the  practice)  become  a basis  of  figurative 
allusion  (Job  xvi,  21;  Prov.  xxii,  23;  xxiii,  11 ; xxxi, 
9 ; Isa.  i,  17 ; Jer.  xxx,  13 ; 1,  34;  li,  36).  The  blessed- 
ness of  such  acts  is  forcibly  dwelt  upon,  Job  xxix,  12, 13. 

There  is  no  mention  of  any  distinctive  dress  or  badge 
as  pertaining  to  the  judicial  officer.  A staff  or  sceptre 
was  the  common  badge  of  a ruler  or  prince,  and  this  they 
probably  bore  (Isa.  xiv,  5 ; Amos  i,  5, 8).  They  would, 
doubtless,  be  more  than  usually  careful  to  comply  with 
the  regulations  about  dress  laid  down  in  Numb,  xv,  38, 
39 ; Dent,  xxii,  1 2.  The  use  of  the “ white  asses”  ( J udg. 
v,  10)  by  those  who  “sit  in  judgment”  was  perhaps  a 
convenient  distinctive  mark  for  them  when  journeying 
where  they  would  not  usually  be  personally  known. 

For  other  matters  relating  to  some  of  the  processes  of 
law, see  Oath;  Officer,  Trial;  Witness,  etc. 

Judges,  Book  of,  the  third  in  the  list  of  the  histor- 
ical compositions  of  the  O.  T.  (counting  the  rentateucli 
as  one),  or  the  seventh  of  the  separate  books.  In  the 
following  account  we  freely  avail  ourselves  of  the  arti- 
cles in  the  dictionaries  of  Kitto,  Smith,  and  Fairbairn. 

I.  Title  and  Order. — In  the  original  Hebrew,  as  well 

as  in  all  the  translations,  this  book  bears  the  name  of 
Judges  (□“’IJS'lwj,  Sept.  Kpirat,  Vulgate  liber  Judicum'), 
and  this  name  has  obviously  been  given  to  it  because 
chiefly  relating  the  transactions  connected  with  the  de- 
liverance and  government  of  Israel  by  the  men  who 
bear  this  title  in  the  Hebrew  polity.  The  period  of  his- 
tory contained  in  this  book,  however,  reaches  from  Josh- 
ua to  Eli,  and  is  thus  more  extensive  than  the  time  of 
the  judges.  A considerable  portion  of  it  also  makes  no 
mention  of  them,  though  belonging  to  their  time.  The 
Book  of  Ruth  was  originally  a part  of  this  book,  but 
about  the  middle  of  the  5th  century  after  Christ  it  was 
placed  in  the  Hebrew  copies  immediately  after  the  Song 
of  Solomon.  In  the  Sept,  it  has  preserved  its  original 
position,  but  as  a separate  book.  The  chronological  re- 
lation of  these  books  corresponds  with  the  order  in  which 
they  are  arranged,  namely,  after  the  Book  ef  Joshua. 
See  below,  § vi.  , 

II.  Contents. — The  book  may  most  properly  be  divided 
into  three  parts,  the  middle  one  of  which  alone  is  in 
strictly  chronological  order. 

1.  The.  Introduction  (eh.  i-iii,  0),  containing  prelimi- 
nary information  on  certain  points  requisite  to  be  known, 
or  else  general  statements  which  give  a key  to  the  course 
of  the  history  properly  so  called,  and  to  the  writer’s 
mode  of  presenting  it.  The  first  chapter  is  chiefly  geo- 
graphical, containing  a statement  of  what  the  several 
tribes  had  done  or  failed  to  do ; the  second  chapter,  to- 
gether with  the  opening  verses  of  the  third,  are  predom- 
inantly moral  and  reflective;  or,  otherwise,  the  first 
gives  the  political  relations  of  Israel  to  the  Canaanites, 
and  the  second  gives  the  religious  relation  of  Israel  to 
the  Lord.  This  part  may  therefore  be  subdivided  into 
two  sections,  as  follows : 

a.  Chap,  i-ii,  5,  which  may  be  considered  as  a first  in- 
troduction, giving  a summary  of  the  results  of  the  war 
carried  on  against  the  Canaanites  by  the  several  tribes 
on  the  west  of  Jordan  after  Joshua’s  death,  and  forming 
a continuation  of  Josh.  xii.  It  is  placed  first,  as  in  the 
most  natural  position.  It  tells  us  that  the  people  did 
not  obej-  the  command  to  expel  the  people  of  the  land, 
and  contains  the  reproof  of  them  by  a prophet. 

b.  Chapter  ii,  G-iii,  G.  This  is  a second  introduction, 
standing  in  nearer  relation  to  the  following  history.  It 
informs  ns  that  the  people  fell  into  idolatry  after  the 
death  of  Joshua  and  his  generation,  and  that  they  were 
punished  for  it  by  being  unable  to  drive  out  the  rem- 
nant of  the  inhabitants  of  the  land,  and  by  falling  under 
the  hand  of  oppressors.  A parenthesis  occurs  (ii,  1 0—19) 

IV.— Y Y Y 


73  JUDGES,  BOOK  OF 

of  the  highest  importance,  as  giving  a key  to  the  follow- 
ing portion.  It  is  a summary  view  of  the  history : the 
people  fall  into  idolatry;  they  are  then  oppressed  by  a 
foreign  power;  upon  their  repentance  they  are  deliver- 
ed by  a judge,  after  whose  death  they  relapse  into  idol- 
atry. 

2.  Body  of  the  History  (chap,  iii,  7-xvi).  The  words 
“And  the  children  of  Israel  did  evil  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord,”  which  had  already  been  used  in  ch.  ii,  11,  are  em- 
ployed to  introduce  the  history  of  the  thirteen  judges 
comprised  in  this  book.  An  account  of  six  of  these  thir- 
teen is  given  at  greater  or  less  length. . The  account  of 
the  remaining  seven  is  very  short,  and  merely  attached 
to  the  longer  narratives.  These  narratives  arc  as  fol- 
lows: (1)  The  deliverance  of  Israel  by  Othniel,  iii,  7-11. 
(2)  The  history  of  Elmd  and  (in  31)  that  of  fSliamgar, 
iii,  12-31.  (3)  The  deliverance  by  Deborah  and  Barak, 

ch.  iv.-v.  (4)  The  whole  passage  in  vi-x,  5.  The  his- 
tory of  Gideon  and  his  son  Abimeleeh  is  contained  in 
chap,  vi-ix,  and  followed  by  the  notice  of  Tola  (x,  1,  2) 
and  Jair  (x,  3,  5).  This  is  the  only  case  in  which  the 
history  of  a judge  is  continued  by  that  of  his  children. 
But  the  exception  is  one  which  illustrates  the  lesson 
taught  by  the  whole  book.  Gideon’s  sin  in  making  the 
ephod  is  punished  by  the  destruction  of  his  family  by 
Abimeleeh,  with  the  help  of  the  men  of  Shecliem,  who, 
in  their  turn,  become  the  instruments  of  each  other’s 
punishment.  In  addition  to  this,  the  short  reign  of 
Abimeleeh  would  seem  to  be  recorded  as  being  an  unau- 
thorized anticipation  of  the  kingly  government  of  later 
times.  (5)  Ch.  x,  G-xii.  The  history  of  Jephthah  (x, 
G-xii,  7),  to  which  is  added  the  mention  of  Ilizan  (xii, 
8-10),  Elon  (11,  12),  Abdon  (13-15).  (6)  The  history 

of  Samson,  consisting  of  twelve  exploits,  and  forming 
three  groups  connected  with  his  love  of  three  Philistine 
women,  chap,  xiii-xvi.  We  may  observe  in  general  on 
this  portion  of  the  book  that  it  is  almost  entirely  a his- 
tory of  the  wars  of  deliverance  : there  are  no  sacerdotal 
allusions  in  it ; the  tribe  of  Judah  is  not  alluded  to  after 
the  time  of  Othniel ; and  the  greater  part  of  the  judges 
belong  to  the  northern  half  of  the  kingdom. 

A closer  inspection,  however,  discloses  a more  interior, 
and  therefore  truer  arrangement  of  this,  the  main  part 
of  the  book,  and  one  better  calculated  to  bring  out  the 
theocratic  government,  of  God,  which,  as  we  have  seen 
in  the  preceding  article,  was  the  cardinal  idea  of  the  of- 
fice known  as  that  of  “the  Judges.”  Moses  had  been 
commissioned  by  the  A nyel  of  the  Covenant,  who  went  be- 
! fore  the  people  in  all  their  marches  (Exod.  iii,  1-6;  xiii, 
21 ; xiv,  19,  etc.),  and  to  fit  him  for  his  office  Moses  was 
filled  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  which  was  given  to  him 
in  a measure  apparently  not  given  to  any  mere  man  af- 
ter him.  But  the  Spirit,  which  was  communicated  in  a 
certain  degree  to  men  for  various  tasks  in  connection 
with  the  Church  and  people,  was  especially  communi- 
cated from  Moses,  in  whom  the  fulness  resided  (fulness 
such  as  was  possible  under  the  Old-Testament  dispensa- 
tion), to  the  seventy  elders  who  assisted  him  in  the  ad- 
ministration, and  to  Joshua,  who  was  called  to  be  his 
successor  (Numb,  xi,  17,25;  xxvii,  1G,  18,20).  Agree- 
ably to  this,  the  true  grouping  of  the  events  in  the  time 
of  the  judges  must  be  looked  for  in  connection  with  the 
coming  forth  of  the  Angel  of  the  Covenant,  and  the  cor- 
responding mission  of  the  Sj.irit.  of  the  Lord  into  the 
hearts  of  his  instruments.  (No  arguing  is  needed  to 
establish  the  erroneousness  of  our  translation,  “an  angel 
of  the  Lord”  [ii,  1 ; vi,  11] ; “an  angel  of  God”  [xiii,  G, 
9, 13],  The  only  possible  rendering  is,  “the  Angel  of 
the  Lord,”  “ the  Angel  of  God and  this  is  amply  con- 
firmed by  the  attributes  of  Godhead  which  appear  in  the 
narratives.)  Yet,  while  we  notice  these  epochs  of  special 
manifestation,  we  must  remember  that  God  was  always 
present  with  his  people,  at  the  head  of  their  govern- 
ment, and  working  in  a more  ordinary  manner  in  calling 
out  agents  for  preserving  and  recovering  the  visible 
Church  and  holy  nation.  Besides,  there  was  the  stand- 
ing method  of  consulting  him  by  Urim  and  Thummim, 


JUDGES,  BOOK  OF  10 

through  the  high-priest,  and  there  was  his  way  of  ex- 
traordinarily addressing  the  people  by  prophets;  of  both 
of  these  there  are  recorded  instances  in  this  book,  al- 
though the  prophetical  agency  is  rare  and  feeble  till  the 
timc'of  Samuel  (1  Sam.  Hi,  1, 19-21),  with  whom  the 
succession  of  prophets  began  (Acts  iii,  24). 

Now  the  appearance  of  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  and 
the  mission  of  the  Spirit  in  a special  manner  is  four 
times  noticed  in  the  body  of  the  history,  and  nowhere 
else,  except  in  the  poetical  allusion  in  ch.  v,  23.  (1.) 

The  Angel  of  Jehovah  went  up  from  Gilgal  to  Bochira, 
and  reproached  the  people  for  neglecting  his  work  of  re- 
demption ; threatening  to  help  them  no  more ; yet  in 
reality,  by  the  utterance  of  this  threat,  suggesting  that 
his  free  grace  would  help  them,  as  in  fact  they  immedi- 
ately gained  a victory  over  their  own  sinful  selves  (ii,  1- 
5).  'The  outward  victory  over  oppressors  was  soon  gain- 
ed by  Othnicl  (iii,  10)  when  “ the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
came,” literally  was, “upon  him,  and  he  judged  Israel, 
and  went  out  to  war,”  (2.)  The  Angel  of  the  Lord  came 
and  gave  a mission  to  Gideon  to  deliver  Israel  (vi,  11, 
etc.),  and  to  fit  him  for  it  (ver. 34), “ the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  came  upon,”  literally  clothed,  “Gideon,  and  he 
blew  the  trumpet.”  (3.)  A passage  (x,  10-16)  is  so  sim- 
ilar to  the  account  of  the  Angel  at  Bochim  that  we  do 
not  know  how  to  avoid  the  impression  that  it  is  the  An- 
gel himself  who  speaks  in  that  immediate  manner  which 
is  peculiar  to  this  book;  certainly  there  is  no  hint  of 
any  prophet  in  the  case,  and  a message  like  this  from 
the  Urim  and  Thummim  is  nowhere  on  record  in  Scrip- 
ture. The  closing  words  that,  after  having  refused  to 
“save”  them  (not  merely  “deliver,”  as  in  our  version) 
on  the  repentance  of  the  people, “his  soul  was  grieved 
for  the  misery  of  Israel,”  suggest  the  same  interpreta- 
tion, in  the  light  of  the  commentary  (Isa.  lxiii,  8,  9) : 
“ So  he  said,  Surely  they  arc  my  people,  children  that 
will  not  lie;  so  he  was  their  Saviour.  In  all  their  afilic- 
tion  he  was  attlicted,  and  the  Angel  of  his  Presence  saved 
them.”  Upon  this,  Jephthah  was  called  to  lead  the 
people;  and  as  on  the  two  earlier  occasions  (xi,  29), 
‘■The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  came,”  literally  was,  “upon 
Jephthah.”  (4.)  The  Angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  to 
the  parents  of  Samson,  announcing  the  birth  of  their 
son,  who  was  to  begin  to  “deliver,”  or  rather  “save,” 
Israel  (xiii,  3-23).  This  occurs  with  the  usual  cor- 
respondence (vcr.  24,  25),  “ The  child  grew,  and  the  Lord 
blessed  him ; and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  began  to  move 
him  at  times:”  while  of  him  alone,  as  one  peculiarly 
chosen  by  the  Lord  and  given  to  him  from  his  birth,  it. 
is  said  repeatedly  afterwards,  that  “ the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  came  mightily  upon  him.” 

This  arrangement  suggests  the  four  periods  of  history 
noted  in  the  tabic  given  below  (§  ix).  The  appearance 
ot  the  angel  of  the  Lord  and  the  mission  of  the  Spirit, 
however,  belong  not  to  the  very  commencement  of  the 
period,  but  rather  to  the  continuance  or  close  of  a term 
of  sin  and  disgrace.  Perhaps  in  ( iideon  and  Jephthah’s 
eases  the  appearance  of  the  angel  and  the  mission  of  the 
Spirit  were  almost  contemporaneous;  but  in  the  first 
ease  and  in  the  last  there  must  have  been  some  distance 
of  time  between  them,  not  now  ascertainable,  but  possi- 
bly amounting  to  several  years,  and  determined  in  each 
cas<‘  '»y  ^ie  particulars  of  the  crisis  which  demanded 
those  manifestations. 

3.  .!«  Appendix  (chap,  xvii-xxi).  This  part  has  no 
tormal  connection  with  the  preceding,  and  has  often, 
but  unnecessarily,  been  assumed  to  have  been  added  by 
a later  baud.  No  mention  of  the  judges  occurs  in  it. 
It  contains  allusions  to  “ the  house  of  God,”  the  ark,  and 
tlio  high-priest.  The  period  to  which  the  narrative  re- 
lites  *s  simply  marked  by  the  expression  “when  there 
was  no  king  in  Israel”  (xix,  1 ; comp,  xviii,  1).  It  re- 
cords two  series  of  incidents: 

a.  'flic  conquest  of  Laish  by  a portion  of  the  tribe  of 
Dan,  and  the  establishment  there  of  the  idolatrous  wor- 
ship of  Jehovah  already  instituted  bv  Micnh  in  Mount 
Lphraim  (cli.  xvii,  xviii).  The  date  of  this  occurrence 


74  JUDGES,  BOOK  OF 

is  not  marked,  but  it  has  been  thought  to  be  subsequent 
to  the  time  of  Deborah,  as  her  song  contains  no  allusion 
to  any  northern  settlements  of  the  tribe  of  Dan. 

b.  .The  almost  total  extinction  of  the  tribe  of  Benja- 
min by  the  whole  people  of  Israel,  in  consequence  of 
their  supporting  the  cause  of  the  wicked  men  of  Gibcah, 
and  the  means  afterwards  adopted  for  preventing  its 
becoming  complete  (ch.  xix  xxj).  The  date  is  in  some 
degree  marked  by  the  mention  of  Phinehas,  the  grand- 
son of  Aaron  (xx,  28),  and  by  the  proof  of  the  unanimity 
still  prevailing  among  the  people. 

III.  Design. — The  above  analysis  clearly  indicates  a 
unity  of  plan  on  the  part  of  the  writer.  His  leading 
object  lie  distinctly  intimates  in  ii,  11-23,  namely,  in 
enforcement  of  the  central  idea  of  the  theocracy,  to  prove 
that  the  calamities  to  which  the  Hebrews  had  been  ex- 
posed since  the  death  of  Joshua  were  owing  to  their  apos- 
tasy from  Jehovah,  and  to  their  idolatry.  “ They  forsook 
the  Lord,  and  served  Baal  and  Ashtaroth”  (ii,  13),  for 
which  crimes  they  were  deservedly  punished  and  great- 
ly distressed  (ii,  1 5).  Nevertheless,  when  they  repented 
and  obeyed  again  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  lie 
delivered  them  out  of  the  hand  of  their  enemies  by  the 
shoj)ketim  whom  he  raised  up,  and  made  them  prosper 
(ii,  16-23).  To  illustrate  this  theme,  the  author  col- 
lected the  most  important  elements  of  the  Hebrew  his- 
tory during  the  period  between  Joshua  and  Eli.  Some 
episodes  occur,  but  in  arguing  his  subject  he  never  loses 
sight  of  liis  leading  theme,  to  which,  on  the  contrary, 
he  frequently  recurs  while  stating  facts,  and  shows  how 
it  applied  to  them ; the  moral  evidently  being,  that  the 
only  way  to  happiness  was  to  shun  idolatry  and  obey 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  The  appendix  further 
illustrates  the  lawlessness ‘and  anarchy  prevailing  in  Is- 
rael after  Joshua’s  death. 

Yet  the  words  of  the  passage  in  which  the  author 
thus  discloses  his  main  object  must  not  be  pressed  too 
closely,  as  if  implying  a perfect  remedy  of  each  political 
ruin.  It  is  a general  view,  to  which  the  facts  of  the 
history  correspond  in  different  degrees.  Thus  the  peo- 
ple is  contemplated  as  a whole;  the  judges  are  spoken 
of  with  the  reverence  due  to  God’s  instruments,  and  the 
deliverances  appear  complete.  But  it  would  seem  that 
the  people  w'ere  in  no  instance  under  exactly  the  same 
circumstances,  and  the  judges  in  some  points  fall  short 
of  the  ideal.  Thus  Gideon,  who  in  some  respects  is  the 
most  eminent  of  them,  is  only  the  head  of  his  own  tribe, 
and  has  to  appease  the  men  of  Ephraim  by  conciliatory 
language  in  the  moment  of  victory  over  the  Midianites; 
and  he  himself  is  the  means  of  leading  away  the  people 
from  the  pure  worship  of  God.  In  Jephthah  we  find 
the  chief  of  the  land  of  Gilead  still  affected  to  some 
extent  by  personal  reasons  (xi,  9) : bis  war  against  the 
Ammonites  is  confined  to  the  east  side  of  Jordan,  though 
its  issues  probably  also  freed  the  western  side  from  their 
presence,  and  it  is  followed  by  a bloody  conflict  with 
Ephraim.  Again,  Samson’s  task  was  simply  “to  begin 
to  deliver  Israel”  (xiii,  5) : and  the  occasions  which 
called  forth  his  hostility  to  the  Philistines  arc  of  a kind 
which  place  him  on  a different  level  from  Deborah  or 
Gideon.  This  shows  that  the  passage  in  question  is  a 
general  review  of  the  collective  history  of  Israel  during 
the  time  of  the  judges,  the  details  of  which,  in  their  va- 
rying aspects,  are  given  faithfully  as  the  narrative  pro- 
ceeds. 

This  view  of  the  author’s  design  may  lead  ns  to  ex- 
pect that  we  have  not  a complete  history  of  the  times — a 
fact  which  is  clear  from  the  book  itself.  We  have  only 
accounts  of  parts  of  the  nation  at  any  one  time.  We 
may  easily  suppose  that  there  were  other  incidents  of  a 
similar  nature  to  those  recorded  in  ch.  xvii-xxi.  In- 
deed, in  the  history  itself  there  are  points  which  are  ob- 
scure from  want  of  fuller  information,  c.  g.  the  reason 
for  the  silence  about  the  tribe  of  Judah  (see  also  viii, 
IX;  ix,  26).  Some  suppose  even  that  the  number  of 
the  judges  is  not  complete,  hut  there  is  no  reason  for 
this  opinion.  Bedan  (1  Sam.  xii,  11)  is  probably  the 


1075 


JUDGES,  BOOK  OF 


JUDGES,  BOOK  OF 

same  as  Abdon.  Ewald  (Gesch.  ii,  477)  rejects  the  com- 
mon explanation  that  the  word  is  a contracted  form  of 
Ben-Dan , i.  e.  Samson.  Jael  (v,  6)  need  not  be  the 
name  of  an  unknown  judge,  or  a corruption  of  Jair,  as 
Ewald  thinks,  but  is  probably  the  wife  of  Ileber.  “The 
days  of  Jael”  would  carry  the  misery  of  Israel  up  to  the 
time  of  the  victory  over  Sisera,  and  such  an  expression 
could  hardly  be  thought  too  great,  an  honor  at  that  time 
(see  v,  24).  Had  the  writer  designed  to  give  a full  and 
connected  history  of  the  Hebrews  in  the  period  between 
Joshua  and  the  kings,  he  would  doubtless  have  described 
the  state  of  the  domestic  affairs  and  of  the  government 
in  the  several  tribes,  the  relation  in  which  they  stood  to 
each  other,  and  the  extent  of  power  exercised  by  a 
judge,  with  other  particulars  such  as  do  not  appear  in 
the  narrative. 

1Y.  Sources  of  the  Materials. — Farts  of  the  work  are 
undoubtedly  taken  from  ancient  records  and  genealogies, 
others  from  traditions  and  oral  information.  From  an- 
cient authentic  documents  are  probably  copied  the  song 
of  Deborah  (chap,  v),  the  beautiful  parable  of  Jotham 

ix,  8-15),  and  the  beginning  of  Samson’s  epinieian,  or 
triumphal  poem  (xv,  16).  See  also  chap,  xiv,  14,  18; 
xv,  7.  In  their  genealogies  the  Hebrews  usually  in- 
serted also  some  historical  accounts,  and  from  this  source 
may  have  been  derived  the  narrative  of  the  circum- 
stances that  preceded  the  conception  of  Samson,  which 
were  given  as  the  parents  related  them  to  others  (chap, 
xiii).  These  genealogies  were  sometimes  further  illus- 
trated by  tradition,  and  several  incidents  in  the  history 
of  Samson  appear  to  have  been  derived  from  this  kind 
of  information.  But  on  many  points  tradition  offered 
nothing,  or  the  author  rejected  its  information  as  not 
genuine,  and  unworthy  of  belief.  Thus  it  is  that  of 
Tola,  Jair,  Ibzan,  Elon,  and  Abdon,  the  author  gives  only 
the  number  of  years  that  they  governed  and  the  num- 
ber of  their  children,  but  relates  none  of  their  trans- 
actions (x,  1-5;  xii,  8,  9,  11,  13).  In  some  instances 
the  very  words  of  the  ancient  documents  which  the  au- 
thor used  seem  to  have  been  preserved,  and  this  proves 
the  care  with  which  he  composed.  Thus,  in  the  first 
division  of  our  book,  but  nowhere  else,  rich  and  power- 
ful men  are  described  as  men  riding  on  ass-colts  (x, 
4 ; xii,  14,  etc.) ; also  in  the  song  of  Deborah  (v,  9, 
10).  In  the  appendix  also  of  this  book,  but  nowhere 
else,  a priest  has  the  honorary  title  of  father  given  him 
(xvii,  10;  xviii,  19).  But,  though  the  author  some- 
times retained  the  words  of  his  sources,  still  the  whole 
of  the  composition  is  written  in  a particular  style,  dis- 
tinguishing it  from  all  other  hooks  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment. The  idea  of  the  Israelites  being  overcome  by 
their  enemies  he  expresses  often  in  this  way:  “The  an- 
ger of  the  Lord  was  hot  against  Israel,  and  lie  sold  them 
into  the  hands  of  their  enemies”  (ii.  14;  iii,  8;  iv,  2; 

x,  7).  A courageous  and  valiant  warrior  is  described  as 
a person  upon  whom  rests  the  spirit  of  Jehovah,  or  as  a 
person  whom  the  spirit  of  Jehovah  clothed  (vi,  34;  ix, 
29;  xiv,  6, 19;  xv,  14,  etc.). 

Stiihelin  ( Krit . Untersnch.  p.  106)  thinks  that  iii,  7- 
xvi  present  the  same  manner  and  diction  throughout, 
and  that  there  is  no  need  to  suppose  written  sources. 
So  Ilavernick  ( Ernie  itung , i,  1.  p.  68  sq.,  107)  only  recog- 
nises the  use  of  documents  in  the  appendix.  Other 
critics,  however,  trace  them  throughout.  Bertlieau  (On 
Judges,  p.  xxviii-xxxii)  says  that  the  difference  of  the 
diction  in  the  principal  narratives,  coupled  with  the  fact 
that  they  are  united  in  one  plan,  points  to  the  incorpo- 
ration of  parts  of  previous  histories.  Thus,  according 
to  him,  the  author  found  the  substance  of  iv,  2-24  al- 
ready accompanying  the  song  of  Deborah ; in  eh.  vi-ix 
two  distinct  authorities  are  used — a life  of  Gideon,  and  a 
history  of  Sheeliem  and  its  usurper;  in  the  account  of 
Jephthah  a history  of  the  tribes  on  the  east  of  Jordan 
is  employed,  which  meets  ns  again  in  different  parts  of 
the  Pentateuch  and  Joshua;  and  the  history  of  Samson 
is  taken  from  a longer  work  on  the  Philistine  wars. 
Ewald's  view  is  similar  (Gesch.  i,  184  sq. ; ii,  486  sq.). 


V.  Unit;/. — This  has  already  been  pretty  fully  vindi- 
cated in  the  aliove  remarks  on  the  design  of  the  writer 
(§  iii).  The  attacks  that  have  been  made  upon  the  unity 
of  the  book  are  rested  on  very  trifling  grounds.  The 
chief  one  is  the  existence  of  the  appendix,  though  it  is 
not  difficult  to  see  the  two  great  reasons  for  this  part  of 
the  book  assuming  such  a form  : the  one,  that  the  his- 
torical development  according  to  plan  was  not  to  be  in- 
terrupted; the  other,  that  the  two  events  which  it  nar- 
rates are  to  be  looked  on  less  as  single  events  than  as 
permanent  influences.  The  permanence  of  the  wor- 
ship at  Dan  is  expressly  mentioned  (xviii,  30, 31),  and 
“the  captivity  of  the  land”  for  the  twenty  years  before 
Samuel  assumed  office  is  traced  to  it  with  tolerable  dis- 
tinctness. The  permanence  of  the  moral  evil  which 
came  out  at  Gibeali  is  not  so  plainly  intimated ; on  the 
contrary,  it  might  have  been  supposed  to  be  eradicated 
by  the  vengeance  taken  on  Benjamin.  Yet  the  evil  to 
be  found  in  the  whole  tribes  is  indicated  by  their  share 
in  the  terrible  chastisement;  and  there  is  a hint  of  the 
continuance  of  some  equally  potent  mischievous  influ- 
ence in  the  similar  slaughter  of  the  tribe  of  Ephraim  by 
Jephthah.  The  prophet  Ilosea  ift  so  many  words  in- 
forms us  that  the  days  of  Gibeali  never  ceased  in  Israel, 
and  that  the  root  of  the  evil  hail  not  been  taken  away 
(Hos.  ix,  9 ; x,  9).  There  have  been,  indeed,  some  very 
unsuccessful  efforts  to  establish  a difference  of  the  words 
in  use  and  the  style  of  composition  in  the  appendix  and 
in  the  body  of  the  book,  but  there  has  been  little  ap- 
pearance of  success  in  the  undertaking.  Even  these 
objectors  have  frequently  admitted  a resemblance  and 
unity  between  the  appendix  and  the  introduction,  on 
account  of  which  some  of  them  have  gone  so  far  as  to 
say  that  both  these  may  belong  to  a later  editor,  who 
prefixed  and  annexed  his  new  materials  to  a previously 
existing  work,  the  history  of  the  judges  strictly  so  call- 
ed. The  argument  from  internal  chronological  data  will 
be  examined  below  (§  vii).  The  attempts  to  ffiscover 
contradictions  in  the  book,  with  a view'  to  show  a plu- 
rality of  authors,  have  also  signally  failed. 

YI.  Relation  to  other  Books  of  Scripture. — This  is 
somewhat  connected  with  the  topics  discussed  under  the 
preceding  and  following  heads.  The  coincidences  with 
the  two  adjoining  Biblical  books,  however,  are  so  strik- 
ing as  to  call  for  a distinct  notice. 

1 .Relation  to  the  Rook  of  Joshua. — Josh,  xv-xxi 
must  be  compared  with  Judg.  i in  order  to  understand 
fully  how  far  the  several  tribes  failed  in  expelling  the 
people  of  Canaan.  Nothing  is  said  in  chap,  i about  the 
tribes  on  the  east,  of  Jordan,  which  had  already  been 
mentioned  (Josh,  xiii,  13),  nor  about  Levi  (see  Josh,  xiii, 
33;  xxi,  1-42).  The  carrying  on  of  the  war  by  the 
tribes  singly  is  explained  by  Josh,  xxiv,  28.  The  book 
begins  with  a reference  to  Joshua’s  death,  and  ii,  6—9  re- 
sumes the  narrative,  suspended  by  i-ii,  5,  with  the  same 
words  as  are  used  in  concluding  the  history  of  Joshua 
(xxiv,  28-31).  In  addition  to  this,  the  following  pas- 
sages appear  to  be  common  to  the  two  books:  Judg.  i, 
10-15, 20,  21,  27,  29,  compared  with  Josh,  xv,  14-19, 13, 
63;  xvii,  12;  xvi,  10.  A reference  to  the  conquest  of 
Laish  (Judg.  xviii)  occurs  in  Josli.xix,  47. 

2.  Relation  to  the  Books  of  Samuel  and  Kings. — We 
find  in  i,  28,  30, 33, 35,  a number  of  towns  upon  which, 
“when  Israel  was  strong,”  a tribute  of  bond-sen-ice  was 
levied  : this  is  supposed  bv  some  to  refer  to  the  time  of 
Solomon  (1  Kings  ix,  13-22).  The  conduct  of  Saul  to- 
wards the  Kenites  (1  Sam.  xv,  6),  and  that  of  David  (1 
Sam.  xxx,  29).  is  explained  by  i,  16.  A reference  to  the 
continuance  of  the  Philistine  wars  is  implied  in  xiii,  5. 
The  allusion  to  Abimelech  (2  Sam.  xi,  21)  is  explained 
by  ch.  ix.  Chapters  xvii-xxi  and  the  book  of  Hutli  are 
more  independent,  but  they  have  a general  reference  to 
the  subsequent  history. 

3.  The  question  now  arises  whether  this  book  forms 
one  link  in  a historical  series,  or  whether  it  has  a closer 
connection  either  with  those  that  precede  or  follow  it. 
We  cannot  infer  anything  from  the  agreement  of  its 


JUDGES,  BOOK  OF  10 

view  ami  spirit  with  those  of  the  other  books.  The 
object  of  the  writer  was  to  give  an  account  only  of  the 
“Judges”  proper.  Hence  the  history  ceases  with  Sam- 
son, excluding  Eli  and  Samuel ; and  then  at  this  point 
two  historical  pieces  are  added — ch.  xvii— xxi  and  the 
book  of  Kutli,  supplemental  to  the  general  plan  and  to 
each  other.  This  is  less  well  explained  by  Ewald’s 
supposition  that  the  books  from  Judges  to  2 Kings  form 
one  work.  In  this  case  the  histories  of  Eli  and  Samuel, 
so  closely  united  between  themselves,  are  only  deferred 
on  account  of  their  close  connection  with  the  rise  of  the 
monarchy.  Judg.  xvii-xxi  is  inserted  both  as  an  illus- 
tration of  the  sin  of  Israel  during  the  time  of  the  judges, 
in  which  respect  it  agrees  with  ch.  i-xvi,  and  as  pre- 
senting a contrast  with  the  better  order  prevailing  in 
the  time  of  the  kings.  Ruth  follows  next,  as  touching 
on  the  time  of  the  judges,  and  containing  information 
about  David’s  family  history  which  does  not  occur  else- 
where. 'l’he  connection  of  these  books,  however,  is  de- 
nied by  I)c  Wette  ( Einleit . § 186)  and  Thenius  (Kurz- 
gef,  Exeg.  Ilundb.  Sam.  p.  xv,  Kbnige , p.  i).  Bertheau, 
on  the  other  hand,  thinks  that  one  editor  may  be  traced 
from  Genesis  to  2 Kings,  whom  he  believes  to  be  Ezra, 
in  agreement  with  Jewish  tradition. 

VII.  Authorship  and  Date. — The  only  guide  to  the 
time  when  the  book  was  written  is  the  expression  “unto 
ibis  day,”  which  we  frequently  find  in  it  (ii,  6-xvi), 
and  the  last  occurrence  of  which  (xv,  19)  implies  some 
distance  from  the  time  of  Samson.  But  i,  21,  according 
to  the  most  natural  explanation,  would  indicate  a date, 
for  this  chapter  at  least,  previous  to  the  taking  of  Jehus 
by  David  (2  Sam.  v,  6-9).  Again,  we  should  at  first 
sight  suppose  i,  28,  30,  33,  35,  to  belong  to  the  time  of 
the  judges;  but  these  passages  are  taken  by  many  mod- 
ern critics  as  pointing  to  the  time  of  Solomon  (comp.  1 
Kings  ix,  21).  The  first  portion  of  the  book  (chap,  i- 
xvi)  was  originally,  as  Ewald  thinks  ( Gesch . i,  202),  the 
commencement  of  a larger  work  reaching  down  to  above 
a century  after  Solomon  (see  also  Davidson,  Introduction, 
p.  049 ),  but  this  is  equally  gratuitous.  The  author  of 
the  second  division  always  describes  the  period  of  which 
he  speaks  thus:  “In  those  days  there  was  no  king  in 
Israel,  but  every  man  did  that  which  was  right  in  his 
own  eyes”  (xvii,  6 ; xviii.  1 ; xix,  1 ; xxi,  25) ; but  this 
expression  never  once  occurs  in  the  first  division.  Hence 
many  modern  critics  conclude  that  the  author  of  the 
first  sixteen  chapters  of  our  book  was  different  from  him 
who  composed  the  appendix  (see  Bertholdt,  Ilistorisch- 
hritische  Einleit ung  in  die  sammtlichen  Schriften  des  A. 
und  V.  T.  p.  870;  Eiehhorn’s  Einleitung  in  das  A.  Test. 
iii,  $ 457 ; S.  Davidson,  in  Horne’s  Introd.,  new  ed.,  ii, 
018;  but  Kcil  the  contrary,  Einleit.  p.  182).  The  au- 
thorship of  the  first  sixteen  chapters  has  been  assigned 
to  Joshua,  Samuel,  and  Ezra.  That  they  were  not 
written  by  Joshua  appears  from  the  difference  of  the 
method  of  relating  subjects,  as  well  as  from  the  differ- 
ence o!  tlie  style.  In  the  book  of  Joshua  there  is  a con- 
tinual ref  -mice  to  the  law  ol  Moses,  which  is  much  less 
frequent  in  t lie  book  of  Judges;  and  in  Joshua,  again, 
there,  are  no  such  inferences  from  history  as  are  common 
in  Judges  ( iii,  l,  -l ; viii,  27 ; ix,  50).  The  style  of  the' 
book  ol  Joshua  is  neater  than  that  of  Judges;  the  nar- 
ration is  more  clear,  and  the  arrangement  is  better  (com- 
pare i.  10,  11,  20,  with  Josh.  xiv.  0-15,  and  xv,  13-19; 
also  ii.  7 10.  with  Josh,  xxiv,  29-31).  That  the  book 
of  Judges  was  composed  by  Samuel,  although  an  inven- 
tion o|  the  lalmudists,  unsupported  bv  any  external 
evidence,  is  nevertheless  the  most  plausible  authorship 
that  has  been  assigned  to  it,  at  least  so  far  as  relates  to 
tlic  first  division.  The  opinion  that  this  portion  was 
written  by  Ezra  will  not  be  entertained  by  any  one  who 
attentively  peruses  the  original ; for  it  lias  a phraseolo- 
gy of  its  own,  and  certain  favorite  ideas,  to  which  it 
constantly  reverts,  but  of  which  there  is  not  a trace  in 
Ezra.  II  Ezra  had  intended  to  continue  the  history  of 
the  I lehr,  ws  from  Joshua  down  to  Eli  in  a separate 
work,  be  w mid  not  have  given  a selection  of  incidents 


76  JUDGES,  BOOK  OF 

to  prove  a particular  theme,  but  a complete  history. 
The  orthography  of  the  book  of  Ezra,  with  many  phrases 
characteristic  of  his  age,  do  not  appear  in  the  book  of 
Judges.  The  prefix  d occurs,  indeed  (v,  7 ; vi,  17 ; vii, 
12;  viii,  26);  but  this  cannot  be  referred  to  in  proof 
that  the  language  is  of  the  time  of  Ezra,  for  it  belonged 
to  the  dialect  of  North  Palestine,  as  Ewald  and  others 
have  proved.  Other  verbal  peculiarities  may  be  ex- 
plained in  a similar  manner  (see  Ottmar,  in  Henke’s 
Magazin , vol.  iv ; De  Wette,  Lehrbuch  der  Einleitung  in 
die  Bihel,  Berlin,  1833-39).  The  first  sixteen  chapters 
must  have  been  written  under  Saul,  whom  the  Israelites 
made  their  king  in  the  hope  of  improving  their  condi- 
tion. Phrases  used  in  the  period  of  the  judges  may  be 
traced  in  them,  and  the  author  must  consequently  have 
lived  near  the  time  when  they  were  yet  current.  He 
says  that  in  his  time  “the  Jebusites  dwelt  with  the 
children  of  Benjamin  in  Jerusalem”  (i,  21) : now  this 
was  the  case  only  before  David,  who  conquered  the 
town  and  drove  out  the  Jebusites.  Consequently,  the 
author  of  the  first  division  of  the  book  of  J udges  must 
have  lived  and  written  before  David,  and  yet  he  was 
acquainted  with  a regal  form  of  government,  which  can 
only  point  to  the  reign  of  Saul.  If  he  had  lived  under 
David,  he  would  have  mentioned  the  capture  of  Jerusa- 
lem by  that  monarch,  as  the  nature  of  his  subject  did 
not  allow  him  to  pass  it  over  in  silence.  The  omission, 
moreover,  of  the  history  not  only  of  Samuel,  but  also  of 
Eli,  indicates  an  author  who,  living  in  an  age  very  near 
that  of  Eli,  considered  his  history  as  generally  known, 
because  so  recent. 

The  exact  date  of  the  appendix  is  more  difficult  to  de- 
. termine,  but  its  author  certainly  lived  in  an  age  consid- 
erably later  than  that  of  the  recorded  events.  That  in 
his  time  the  period  of  the  events  which  he  relates  had 
been  long  forgotten  is,  however,  hardly  a fair  inference 
from  the  frequent  chronological  formula,  “ In  those  clays 
there  was  no  king  in  Israel”  (xvii,  G);  and  it  is  gratu- 
itous to  suppose  that  certain  particulars  of  liis  narrative 
could  no  longer  be  ascertained,  and  that  this  caused  him 
to  omit  the  name  of  the  Levite  whose  history  is  given 
in  ch.  xix.  In  his  time,  indeed,  the  house  of  God  was 
no  longer  in  Shiloh  (xviii,  31) ; and  it  will  be  reeollect- 
ed  that  it  was  David  who  brought  the  ark  to  Jerusalem. 
But  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  it  had  frequently 
changed  places  during  the  Philistine  war,  and  it  re- 
mained a long  time  away  from  Shiloh  even  after  Eli’s 
death.  The  author  knew  that  the  posterity  of  Jonathan 
were  priests  of  the  graven  image  in  Dan,  or  Laish,  “un- 
til the  day  of  the  captivity  of  the  land”  (xviii,  30). 
This  latter  circumstance  has  been  assumed  by  Le  Clerc 
and  others  to  prove  that  the  appendix  was  not  publish- 
ed until  after  the  Babylonian  captivity,  or  at  least  until 
after  that  of  Israel  by  Shalmaneser  and  Esar-haildon. 
It  cannot  be  understood  of  the  domination  of  the  Philis- 
tines over  the  Israelites,  which  would  very  improperly 
be  called  “the  captivity  of  the  land,”  this  expression 
always  implying  the  deportation  of  the  inhabitants  of  a 
country.  But  we  may  reasonably  suppose  that  this  ex- 
pression was  added  by  a later  editor.  The  circumstance 
that  the  author,  in  mentioning  Shiloh,  adds,  “which  is 
in  the  land  of  Canaan”  (xxi,  12),  and  that  the  topo- 
graphical description  of  the  site  of  Shiloh  is  given  (xxi, 
19),  has  led  some  interpreters  to  assert  that  the  author 
of  the  appendix  must  have  been  a foreigner,  as  to  an 
Israelite  such  remarks  would  have  appeared  trivial  (see 
Brief e einiger  IlolUindischen  Gottesgelchrten  iiber  Jl.  Si- 
mon's kritische  Gesckichte  des  . I . T.,  edited  by  Le  Clerc 
at  Zurich,  p.  490).  The  inference  is  certainly  specious, 
but,  from  an  examination  of  the  contexts,  it  appears  that 
in  the  first  passage  Shiloh  is  opposed  to  Jabesh  in  Gil- 
ead, a town  without  the  land  of  Canaan,  and  that  this 
led  the  author  to  add  to  Shiloh  that  it  was  in  Canaan ; 
while  the  second  passage  describes,  not  the  site  of  Shi- 
loh, but  of  a place  in  its  neighborhood,  where  an  annual 
feast  was  celebrated,  when  the  daughters  of  Shiloh  came 
out  to  dance,  to  sing,  and  to  play  on  instruments  of  mn- 


JUDGES,  BOOK  OF  10' 

sic;  the  author  thus  heightening  the  interest  of  his  nar- 
rative by  giving  a clearer  idea  of  the  circumstances  of 
the  festival.  Neither  of  these  passages,  therefore,  au- 
thorizes the  inference  that  he  was  a foreigner.  Under 
these  circumstances,  many  have  been  content  to  conjec- 
ture that  the  latter  portion  of  the  book  was  compiled, 
perhaps  by  Ezra,  out  of  historical  documents  originating 
with  the  various  prophetical  characters  that  appeared 
from  time  to  time  during  the  earlier  period  of  the  He- 
brew commonwealth,  chiefly  perhaps  Samuel.  But  if 
the  above  reasoning  is  correct,  especially  that  relating 
to  the  unity  of  the  entire  book,  we  do  not  see  why  Sam- 
uel himself  may  not  have  added  the  appendix,  substan- 
tially in  its  present  form,  to  the  former  part  of  the  his- 
tory. 

VIII.  Canonicity  and  Credibility. — The  book  was  pub- 
lished at  a time  when  the  events  related  were  generally 
known,  and  when  the  veracity  of  the  author  could  be 
ascertained  by  a reference  to  the  original  documents. 
Several  of  its  narratives  are  confirmed  by  the  books  of 
Samuel  (eomp.  Judg.  iv,  2:  vi,  14;  xi,  with  1 Sam.  xii, 
9-12;  Judg.  ix,  53  with  2 Sam.  xi,  21).  The  Psalms 
not  only  allude  to  the  book  of  Judges  (compare  I’sa. 
lxxxiii,  11  with  Judg.  vii,  25),  but  copy  from  it  entire 
verses  (compare  I’sa.  lxviii,  8,  9;  xcvii,  5,  with  Judg.  v, 
4,  5).  Philo  and  Josephus  knew  the  book,  and  made 
use  of  it  in  their  own  compositions.  The  New  Testa- 
ment alludes  to  it  in  several  places  (comp.  Matt,  ii,  13- 
23  with  Judg.  xiii,  5;  xvi,  17 ; Acts  xiii,  20;  Ileb.  xi, 
32).  . 

This  external  evidence  in  support  of  the  authority  of 
the  book  of  Judges  is  corroborated  by  many  internal 
proofs  of  its  authenticity.  'All  its  narratives  are  in 
character  with  the  age  to  which  they  belong,  and  agree 
with  the  natural  order  of  things.  We  find  here  that 
shortly  after  the  death  of  Joshua  the  Hebrew  nation 
had,  by  several  victories,  gained  courage  and  become 
valorous  (eh.  i and  xix),  but  that  it  afterwards  turned 
to  agriculture,  preferred  a quiet  life,  and  allowed  the 
Canaanites  to  reside  in  its  territory  in  consideration  of 
a tribute  imposed  on  them,  when  the  original  plan  was 
that  they  should  be  expelled.  This  changed  their 
character  entirely:  they  became  effeminate  and  indo- 
lent— a result  which  we  find  in  the  case  of  all  nations 
who,  from  a nomadic  and  warlike  life,  turn  to  agricul- 
ture. The  intercourse  with  their  heathen  neighbors 
frequently  led  the  uncultivated  Hebrews  into  idolatry; 
and  this,  again,  further  prepared  them  for  servitude. 
They  were  consequently  overpowered  and  oppressed  by 
their  heathen  neighbors.  The  first  subjugation,  indeed, 
by  a king  of  Mesopotamia, -they  endured  but  eight  years ; 
but  the  second,  more  severe,  by  Eglon,  lasted  longer:  it 
was  the  natural  consequence  of  the  public  spirit  having 
gradually  more  and  more  declined,  and  of  Eglon  having 
removed  his  residence  to  Jericho  with  a view  to  closely 
watching  all  their  movements  (Josephus,  A nt.  v,  5). 
When  Elnul  sounded  the  trumpet  of  revolt,  the  whole 
nation  no  longer  rose  in  arms,  but  only  the  inhabitants 
of  Mount  Ephraim  (iii,  27) ; and  wh.cn  Barak  called  to 
arms  against.  Siscra,  many  tribes  remained  quietly  with 
their  herds  (v,  14,  15,  2d,  28).  Of  the  30,000  men  who 
offered  to  follow  Gideon,  he  could  make  use  of  no  more 
than  300,  this  small  number  only  being,  as  it  would  seem, 
filled  with  true  patriotism  and  courage.  Thus  the  peo- 
ple had  sunk  gradually,  and  deserved  for  forty  years  to 
bear  the  yoke  of  the  Philistines,  to  whom  they  had  the 
meanness  to  deliver  Samson,  who,  however,  loosed  the 
cords  with  which  he  was  tied,  and  killed  a large  num- 
ber of  them  (eh.  xv).  It  is  impossible  to  consider  such 
a historical  work,  which  perfectly  agrees  with  the  nat- 
ural course  of  things,  as  a fiction  : at  that  early  period 
of  authorship,  no  author  could,  from  fancy,  have  depict- 
ed the  character  of  the  Hebrews  so  conformably  with 
nature  and  established  facts.  All  in  this  book  breathes 
the  spirit  of  the  ancient  world.  Martial  law  we  find  in 
it,  as  could  not  but  be  expected,  hard  and  wild.  The 
conquered  people  are  subjected  to  rough  treatment,  as 


77  JUDGES,  BOOK  OF 

is  the  case  in  the  wars  of  all  uncivilized  people ; the  in- 
habitants of  cities  are  destroyed  wholesale  (viii,  10,  17 ; 
xx).  Hospitality  and  the  protection  of  strangers  re- 
ceived as  guests  is  considered  the  highest  virtue : a fa- 
ther will  rather  resign  his  daughter  than  allow  violence 
to  be  done  to  a stranger  who  slops  in  his  house  for  the 
night  (ch.  xix ; comp.  Gen.  xix). 

In  the  state  of  oppression  in  which  the  Hebrews  often 
found  themselves  during  the  period  from  Joshua  to  Eli, 
it  was  to  be  expected  that  men,  filled  with  heroism, 
should  now  and  then  rise  up  and  call  the  people  to  arms 
in  order  to  deliver  them  from  their  enemies.  Such  val- 
iant men  are  introduced  by  our  author,  and  he  extols 
them,  indeed,  highly;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  he  is  not 
silent  respecting  their  faults,  as  may  be  seen  in  the  in- 
stances of  Ehud,  whom  he  reports  to  have  murdered  a 
king  to  recover  liberty  for  his  country  (iii,  16  sq.) ; of 
Gideon,  who  is  recorded  to  have  punished  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Succoth  and  Penuel  cruelly  for  having  refused 
bread  to  his  weary  troops  (viii,  16,  17) ; and  of  Jcph- 
thah,  whose  inconsiderate  vow  deprives  him  of  his  only 
daughter  (xi,  34).  This  cannot  be  a fiction ; it  is  no 
panegyric  on  Israel  to  describe  them  in  the  manner  the 
author  has  done.  Now  this  frank,  impartial  tone  per- 
vades the  whole  work.  It  begins  with  displaying  the 
Israelites  as  a refractory  and  obstinate  people,  and  the 
appendix  ends  with  the  statement  of  a crime  committed 
by  the  Benjainites,  which  had  the  most  disastrous  conse- 
quences. At  the  same  time,  due  praise  is  bestowed  on 
acts  of  generosity  and  justice,  and  valiant  feats  arc  care- 
fully recorded. 

But  are  not  the  exploits  of  its  heroes  exaggerated  in 
our  book,  like  those  of  Sesostris,  Semiramis,  and  Hercu- 
les? Their  deeds  are,  no  doubt,  often  splendid,  but 
they  do  not  surpass  belief,  provided  we  do  not  add  to 
the  narrative  anything  which  the  original  text  does  not 
sanction,  nor  give  to  particular  words  and  phrases  a 
meaning  which  does  not  belong  to  them.  Thus,  when 
we  read  that  “ Shamgar  slew  of  the  Philistines  600  men” 
(iii,  31),  it  would  perhaps  have  been  correct  if  the  He- 
brew “Til  had  been  rendered  by  “put  to  flight;”  and  it 
should  further  be  recollected  that  Shamgar  is  not  stated 
to  have  been  alone  and  unassisted  in  repelling  the  ene- 
my: he  did  it,  no  doubt,  supported  by  those  brave  men 
whose  leader  he  was.  It  frequently  happens  that  to  the 
leader  is  attributed  what  has  been  performed  by  his  fol- 
| lowers.  Nor  can  it  offend  when,  in  the  passage  quoted 
above,  it  is  said  that  Shamgar  repelled  the  Philistines 
with  an  ox-goad;  for  this  was  exactly  the  weapon  which 
an  uncultivated  Oriental  warrior,  who  had  been  brought 
up  to  husbandry,  would  choose  in  preference  to  other 
instruments  of  offence.  From  the  description  which 
travellers  give  of  it,  it  appears  to  have  been  well  suited 
to  such  a purpose.  See  Goad.  It  is  chiefly  the  prodig- 
ious strength  of  Samson,  however,  which  to  very  many 
readers  seems  exaggerated,  and  surpassing  all  belief. 
He  is,  e.  g.,  reported  to  have,  unarmed,  slain  a lion  (xiv, 
5, 6);  to  have  caught  300  jackals  (E"v>E  Vi'),  bound  tlieir 
tails  to  one  another,  put  a firebrand  between  two  tails, 
and  let  them  go  into  the  standing  corn  of  the  Philis- 
tines, which  was  thus  burnt  up  (xv,  4,  5,  8);  to  have 
broken,  with  perfect  case,  the  new  cords  with  which  his 
arms  were  bound,  etc.  (xv,  14;  xvi, 7-9, 11),  Now  there 
is  in  these  and  other  ‘recorded  feats  of  Samson  nothing 
which  ought  to  create  difficulty,  for  history  affords  many 
instances  of  men  of  extraordinary  Strength,  of  whom  Go- 
liath among  the  Philistines  is  not  the  least  remarkable; 
and  for  others  we  refer  to  T.  Ludolf,  Ilistoria  s. Ethiopia , 
i,  10;  to  the  Arta  Dei  per  Francos,  i,  75,  314;  and  to 
Sell  ill  inger.  Missionsbericht,  iv,  79.  Lions  were  also  slain 
by  other  persons  unarmed,  as  by  David  (1  Sam.xvii,36) 
and  Benaiah  (2  Sam.  xxiii,20).  It  were  easy  to  show 
that,  when  properly  understood,  his  other  exploits  do  not 
necessarily  exceed  the  limits  of  human  power.  Extraor- 
dinary indeed  they  were,  but,  even  if  regarded  as  not 
alleged  by  the  Scripture  itself  to  have  been  supernatu- 


JUDGES,  HOOK  OF  10 

rai,  they  are  far  from  fabulous.  Considering  the  very 
remote  period  at  which  our  book  was  written— consid- 
ering also  the  manner  of  viewing  and  describing  events 
and  persons  which  prevailed  with  the  ancient  Hebrews, 
and  which  very  much  differs  from  that  of  our  age- 
taking,  moreover,  into  account  the  brevity  of  the  narra- 
tives.  which  consist  of  historical  fragments,  we  may  well 
wonder  that  there  do  not  occur  in  it  more  difficulties, 
and  that  not  more  doubts  have  been  raised  as  to  its  his- 
torical authority  (see  Herder,  Geist  der  Ilebraischen  Po- 
ij  *2, -,0,59;  Eiehhorn,  Repertorium  der  Piblischen  und 
J lorgenliindisclien  Littemtur , vii, 78).  For  a further  elu- 
cidation of  the  above  and  other  difficulties,  see  the  sev- 
eral subjects  in  their  alphabetical  places. 

IX.  Chronological  Difficulties.— The  time  commonly 
assigned  to  the  period  contained  in  this  book  is  299 
years.  But  this  number  is  not  derived  directly  from  it. 
The  length  of  the  interval  between  Joshua’s  death  and 
the  invasion  of  Chushan-rishathaim,and  of  the  time  dur- 
ing which  Sliamgar  was  judge,  is  not  stated.  The  dates 
which  are  given  amount  to  410  years  when  reckoned 
consecutively;  and  Acts  xiii,  20  would  show  that  this 
was  the  computation  commonly  adopted, as  the  450  years 
seem  to  result  from  adding  40  years  for  Eli  to  the  410 
of  this  book.  But  a difficulty  is  created  by  xi,  26,  and 
in  a still  greater  degree  by  1 Kings  vi,  1,  where  the 
whole  period  front  the  exodus  to  the  building  of  the 
Temple  is  stated  at  480  years  (Sept nag.  440).  One  solu- 
tion questions  the  genuineness  of  the  date  in  1 Kings. 
Kennicott  pronounces  against  it  (Piss.  Gen.  80,  § 3)  be- 
cause it  is  omitted  by  Origen  when  quoting  the  rest  of 
the  verse.  It  is  also  urged  that  Josephus  would  not 
have  reckoned  592  years  for  the  same  period  if  the  pres- 
ent reading  had  existed  in  his  time.  But  it  is  defended 
by  Thenius  (ad  loc.),  and  is  generally  adopted,  partly 
on  account  of  its  agreement  with  Egyptian  chronology. 
Most  of  the  systems  therefore  shorten  the  time  of  the 
judges  by  reckoning  the  dates  as  inclusive  or  contem- 
porary. But  all  these  combinations  are  arbitrary.  The 
same  may  be  said  of  Keifs  scheme,  which  is  one  of  those 
least  open  to  objection,  lie  reckons  the  dates  succes- 
sively as  far  as  Jair,  but  makes  Jephthah  and  the  three 
following  judges  contemporary  with  the  40  years  of  the 
Philistine  oppression  (comp,  x,  6— xiii,  1);  and  by  com- 
pressing the  period  between  the  division  of  the  land  and 
t.'hushan-risbathaim  into  10  years,  and  the  Philistine 
wars  to  the  death  of  Saul  into  39,  he  arrives  ultimately 
at  the  180  years.  Ewald  and  Bertheau  have  proposed 
ingenious  but  unsatisfactory  explanations— differing  in 
details,  but  both  built  upon  the  supposition  that  the 
whole  period  from  the  exodus  to  Solomon  was  divided 
into  12  generations  of  40  years;  and  that,  for  the  period 
of  the  judges,  this  system  has  become  blended  with  the 
dates  of  another  more  precise  reckoning. 

But  the  whole  theory  of  the  parallel  or  contempora- 
neous rule  of  two  or  more  judges,  upon  which  all  these 
shortenings  of  the  period  in  question  proceed,  is  purely 
arbitrary.  There  is  nothing  in  the  book  of  Judges  to 
warrant  the  supposition  that  the  national  unity  was 
completely  broken  up,  so  that  there  ever  were  two  in- 
dependent judges  ruling  different  parts  of  Israel : such 
a schism  first  appeared  in  the  days  of  Ishbosheth  and 
Jeroboam,  and  then  our  attention’  is  strongly  called  to 
it.  1 lie  Ammunitish  oppression  is  distinctly  stated  to 
have  extended  far  beyond  the  eastern  tribes,  into  Judah, 
and  Benjamin,  and  Ephraim,  all  being  included  in  that 

Israel  which  they  oppressed.”  Nor  there  anything 
iu  the  history  which  suggests  the  restriction  of  Jepli- 
thalfs  jurisdiction  to  the  cast  of  Jordan.  On  the  con- 
trary, Mix.peh  ol  Gilead  (xi,  29)  seems  to  be  distinguish- 
ed lrom  Misspell  simply  so  called,  where  he  took  up  his 
house  (ver.  34),  where  he  uttered  all  his  words  before 
tlie  Lord  (ver.  11),  and  where  the  children  of  Israel  had 
assembled  themselves  together  and  encamped  (x,  17); 
and  it  will  be  difficult  to  assign  a reason  for  thinking 
that  this  wii,  not  the  Mi/.peh  in  Benjamin,  where  at 
other  times  the  people  of  the  Lord  were  used  to  meet  iu 


78  JUDGES,  BOOK  OF 

those  days  (xx,  1 ; 1 Sam.  vii,  5, 6 ; x,  17).  Jephthah’s 
successors,  whose  rule  must  also  be  made  contemporary 
with  the  Philistine  oppression  during  40  years,  had  no 
special  connection  whatever  wTith  the  eastern  tribes. 
Ibzan  belonged  to  Bethlehem,  and  wras  buried  there; 
Elon  stood  in  the  same  relation  to  the  tribe  of  Zebulon, 
and  Abdon  to  Pirathon,  in  the  land  of  Ephraim.  So 
far  as  we  know,  these  are  fair  specimens  of  the  connec- 
tions which  the  judges  had  with  the  different  localities 
of  the  land  of  Israel,  and  there  is  no  ground  for  restrict- 
ing the  rule  of  one  of  them  more  than  that  of  another  to 
a part  of  the  land.  We  are  pretty  sure  that  this  was  not 
the  case  with  Deborah  and  Barak,  nor  with  Gideon,  nor, 
certainly,  with  Samuel ; why  imagine  it  with  any  of  the 
rest  ? What  time  could  be  suggested  less  likely  for 
such  a revolution  in  the  constitution  of  Israel  than  the 
close  of  55  years  of  peaceful  government  under  two  suc- 
cessive judges,  in  whose  administration  there  was  so  lit- 
tle to  record  for  the  instruction  of  posterity?  Or,  if  there 
had  been  a threatening  of  such  disintegration  of  the 
commomvealth,  would  it  not  be  prevented  by  the  nomi- 
nation of  the  high-priest  Eli  to  the  office  of  judge?  Yet 
that  other  supposition  of  Eli’s  last  20  years  falling  un- 
der the  first  20  of  the  Philistines  compels  us  to  suppose 
that  his  first  20  were  contemporaneous  with  Jair’s  gov- 
ernment, down  to  whose  death  Keil  admits  that  there  is 
no  trace  of  division:  hence  he  is  driven  to  the  desperate 
resource  of  denying  that  Eli  wras  a judge  at  all,  except 
in  the  sense  in  which  every  high-priest  might  be  called 
by  this  name.  But,  had  Eli  been  only  a judge  during 
the  Philistine  servitude,  w'e  should  expect  this  to  be 
stated,  as  in  Samson’s  case.  Neither  is  it  easily  credi- 
ble that  four  judges,  Jephthah,  Ibzan,  Elon,  and  Abdon, 
should  rule  the  eastern  tribes  in  uninterrupted  succes- 
sion, w'ithout  attempting  to  drive  out  the  Philistines, 
and  support  Samson  in  his  marvellous  struggle. 

In  order  to  weaken  the  force  of  Paul’s  statement  in 
Acts  xiii,  20,  which  confirms  the  consecntiveness  of  the 
judgeships,  recourse  has  been  had  to  a various  reading 
of  that  passage,  by  which  it  may  be  rendered,  “ When 
he  had  destroyed  seven  nations  in  the  land  of  Canaan, 
he  divided  their  land  to  them  by  lot  in  about  450  years, 
and  after  that  he  gave  them  judges  until  Samuel  the 
prophet.”  This  reading  has  the  support  of  our  four  old- 
est manuscripts  ( Alexandrian, Vatican,  Ephraem  palimp- 
sest, and  Sinaitic),  and  of  the  Vulgate,  and  it  has  been 
adopted  by  Laclnnann,  Tregelles,  and  others,  but  not  by 
Tiscliendorf  (7tli  ed.),  Alford,  or  Meyer.  But  the  vari- 
ous readings  of  the  passage  are  in  such  a form  as  sug- 
gests that  there  had  been  tampering  w’ith  the  text  by 
the  scribes,  plainly  for  the  very  reason  that  they  felt 
the  chronological  difficulty;  and  no  one  would  have  al- 
tered the  text  into  the  present  form,  for  which  there  is 
the  authority  of  the  versions  generally,  and  of  the  fa- 
thers who  quote  it,  so  as  to  create  a difficulty  for  them- 
selves. The  sense,  too,  is  very  unsatisfactory,  the  450 
years  being  then  understood  to  run  from  the  birth  of 
Isaac  to  the  division  of  the  land,  a computation  for 
which  no  reason  can  be  given,  and  which  ill  agrees  with 
the  other  statements  of  time  in  the  context,  w’here  there 
is  surely  a chronological  sequence.  It  would  certainly 
conflict  writh  the  430  years  assigned  to  the  sojourn  in 
Egypt  (Exod.  xii, 41),  a period  computed,  as  Gal.  iii.  17 
shows,  from  the  call  of  Abraham,  when  he  was  seventy- 
five  years  old  (Gen.  xii,  4),  to  the  Exode  (comp.  Gen.  xv, 
l(i)*  Keil,  indeed,  makes  the  inconsistency  even  worse 
for  himself  hv  reckoning  these  430  years  from  Jacob’s 
descent  into  Egypt.  See  Curoxology,  vol.  ii,  p.  302. 

We  are  compelled,  therefore,  to  understand  the  peri- 
ods of  oppression  and  judgeship  as  immediately  succes- 
sive, and  then,  arranging  them  in  four  periods,  as  sug- 
gested in  § ii  above,  wrc  may  tabulate  the  whole  of  the 
middle  part  of  the  history  as  on  the  following  page. 

X.  Commentaries. — .The  following  are  the  special  ex- 
egetieal  helps  on  the  whole  book  of  Judges,  alone,  the 
most  important  of  which  we  designate  by  an  asterisk 
i prefixed ; Origen,  Select  a (in  Opp.  ii,  457 ; also  in  Bill. 


JUDGING 


1079 


JUDGMENT 


1 | 

Knit. 

Usher. 

Jewish. 

True,  i 

First  Period  (Chap,  iii-v). 

Ji.O. 

U.C. 

n.o. 

i*.o. 

D.O.  I 

I I.  Servitude.  Chnshan  Rishathaim,  of  Mesopotamia 

..  81 

j_  begin 

1572 

1435 

1402 

-\wu} 

1575  ! 

] 1.  Judge.  Otiiniki 

1564 

1427 

1394 

1567  ! 

| II.  Servitude.  Eglou,  of  Moab ; Ammon,  Amalek 

..  181 

1524 

1387 

1354 

|l204j 

1527 

< 2.  Judge.  Euun 

( 3.  Judge.  Suamc.ar  (“slew  of  the  Philistines”) 

::soi 

1"  “ 

1506 

1369 

1336 

1509  | 

till.  Servitude.  Jabin,  of  Ilazor  in  Canaan 

..  20] 

1426 

1289 

1316 

( ) 

1429  | 

■<  4.  Judge.  Deuouah) 

( 5.  Judge.  Barak  j 

1406 

1269 

1296 

\'m\ 

1409 

— 

206 

Second  Period  (Chap,  vi-x,  5). 

( IV.  Servitude.  Midian,  Amalek,  and  children  of  the  East. . . 

l “ 

1366 

1229 

1256 

1084 

1369 

( C.  Judge.  Gideon 

1 “ 

1359 

1319 

1222 

1182 

1249 

1209 

King.  Aiumelech.  

7.  Judge.  Toi.a 

..  23 

1044 

1322  j 

1316 

1293 

1179 

1156 

1200 

1183 

8.  Judge.  Jair ' 

95 

1018 

1296 

Third  Period  (Chap,  x,  6-xii). 

( V.  Servitude.  Ammonites,  with  Philistines 

L 

1271 

1134 

1161 

99G 

1274 

( 9.  Judge.  Jephthau 

..  <3j 

f 

1253 

1116 

1143 

979 

1256 

10.  Judge.  J»zan 

“ 

1247 

1110 

1137 

973 

1250 

11.  Judge.  Elon 

“ 

1240 

1103 

1130 

{67 

1243 

12.  Judge.  A liDON  

..  8 

1230 

1093 

1120 

49 

Fourth  Period  (Chap,  xiii-xvi). 

VI.  Servitude.  Philistines 

1222 

1134 

1161 

1225  I 

13.  Judge.  Samson  (“in  the  days  of  the  Philistines”) 

( j 

— 

CO 

) 949  { 

11S5 

410  ending 

11S2 

1120 

1165 

Patr.  GaUanrlii,  xiv);  Epliraem  Svrus , Explanatio  (in 
Opp.  i\',  308) ; Theodoret,  Qtusstionss  (in  Opp.  i,  1 ) ; Isi- 
dorus  Hispalensis,  CommenUiria  (in  Opp.  i) ; Bede,  Quces- 
t tones  (in  Opp.  p.  8);  Eupertus  Tuitiensis,  In  Jiul.  (in 
Opp.  i,  331) ; Irimpertus,  Commentarii  (in  Pez.  Tkesour. 
IV,  i,  127) ; Eabbi  Tanehum,  Commentarii  (from  the  Ar- 
abic, by  Sclinurrcr,  Tubing.  1791,  8vo;  by  Haarbrilcher, 
Hal.  1842,  8vo) ; Banolas,  [including  Josh.,  etc.] 

(Leira,  1194,  folio;  also  in  the  Eabbinical  Bibles,  etc.) ; 
Bncer,  Commentarius  (Paris,  1554,  1563,  fol.) ; Borrhaus 
[Cellarius],  Commenturius  [inchid.  Joshua,  etc.]  (Basil. 
1557,  folio) ; Lavater,  Homilies  (Tigur.  1561,  1571, 1582, 
1609,  fol.) ; Ferns,  Enarrationes  [including  Exod.,  etc.] 
(Colon.  1571, 1574,  8vo);  Strigel,  Scholia  (Lipshe,  1575, 
1586,  8vo)  ; Chvtrseus,  Commenturius  (Francof.  1589, 
8vo);  Peter  Martyr,  Commentarius  (Tigur.  1561,  Bond. 
1565, 1576, 1582,  lleidelb.  1590,  folio);  Montanus,  Com- 
mentarius (Ant w.  1592,  4to)  ; Ileling,  Periocka  (Norib. 
1593, 1594, 8vo)  ; Alscheieh,  etc.  [inchul.  Josh., 

etc.]  (Venice,  1001,  1620;  Prague,  1620;  Qflfenb.  1719, 
fol.) ; Felibien,  Commentarii  [inchid.  Josh.,  etc.]  (Paris, 
1604, 4to) ; Ibn-Chajim,  *j“l!lN:  ib  [inchid.  Josh.]  (V en. 
1609,  fol.;  also  in  Frankfurter’s  Kabbinic  Bible);  Sera- 
rius,  Explanatio  [inelud.  Ruth]  (Mogunt.  1609,  folio); 
Rogers,  Lectures  (Loml.  1615,  fol.) ; Drnsius,  Commenta- 
rius [inchid.  Josh.,  etc.]  (France.  1618,  4to);  Magalia- 
nus,  Explanations  (Lugd.  1626,  folio);  Bonfrere,  Com- 
ment arius  [inchid.  Josh.,  etc.]  (Paris,  1631, 1659,  folio) ; 
Villaroel,  Commentarii  (Madr.  1036,  fol.);  Frevre,  Com- 
mentarii  (Olvssip.  and  Mach.  1642,  4to);  Jackson,  Com- 
mentary [inelud.  Ruth,  etc.]  (Cambr.  1046,  2 vols.  4to); 
De  Vega,  Commentarii  (Lugd.  1663  sq.,  3 vols.  fob);  De 
Naxera,  Commentarii  (Lugd.  1004,  3 vols.  fol.);  *Osian- 
der,  Commentarius  (Tub.  1082,  fol.) ; *S.  Schmidt,  Com- 
mentarius (Argent.  1684, 1691, 1706,  4to);  Moldenhauer, 
Zeitrechnung,  etc.  (Ilamb.  1700,  8vo) ; also  ErUinterung 
[inchid.  Josh.,  etc.]  (Quedlinb.  1774, 8vo) ; Rosenmiiller, 
Scholia  (Lipsiae,  1835,  8vo) ; Studer,  Erklarung  (Berne, 
1835,  1842,  8vo) ; Herzfeld,  Chrotiologia , etc.  (Berol. 
1830,  8vo);  *Bertheau,  Erklarung  [inchid.  Ruth]  (Lpz. 
1845,  8vo);  Bush,  Notes  (N.  York,  1852,  12mo);  Noble, 
Sermons  (London,  1850, 8vo) ; Cummings.  Readings  [in- 
clud.  Josh.]  (Loml.  1857, 12mo) ; Rdrdam,  Vers.  Sgriaco- 
hexapl.,  etc.  (Havnite,  1859,  4to);  Fritzsche,  Secundum 
Sept.,  etc.  (Tnrici,  1807,  8vo) ; *Baehmann,  Erklarung 
(Berlin,  1867-70,  vol.  i,  8vo).  See  Old  Testament. 

Judghanites.  See  Judah  Judgiian. 

Judging,  Rash,  the  act  of  carelessly,  precipitately, 
wantonly,  or  maliciously  censuring  others.  This  is  an 


evil  which  abounds  too  much  among  almost  all  classes 
of  men.  “Not  content  with  being  in  the  right  our- 
selves, we  must  find  all  others  in  the  wrong.  We  claim 
an  exclusive  possession  of  goodness  and  wisdom ; and 
from  approving  warmly  of  those  who  join  us,  we  proceed 
to  condemn,  with  much  acrimony,  not  only  the  princi- 
ples, but  the  characters  of  those  from  whom  we  differ. 
We  rashly  extend  to  every  individual  the  severe  opinion 
which  we  have  unwarrantably  conceived  of  a whole 
body.  This  man  is  of  a party  whose  principles  we 
reckon  slavish,  and  therefore  his  whole  sentiments  arc 
corrupted.  That  man  belongs  to  a religious  sect  which 
we  are  accustomed  to  deem  bigoted,  and  therefore  he  is 
incapable  of  any  generous  and  liberal  thought.  An- 
other is  connected  with  a sect  which  we  have  been 
taught  to  account  relaxed,  and  therefore  can  have  no 
sanctity.  We  should  do  well  to  consider,  1.  That  this 
practice  of  rash  judging  is  absolutely  forbidden  in  the 
sacred  Scriptures  (Matt,  vii,  1).  2.  We  thereby  author- 
ize others  to  requite  us  in  the  same  kind.  3.  It  often 
evidences  our  pride,  envy,  and  bigotry.  4.  It  argues  a 
want  of  charity,  the  distinguishing  feature  of  the  Chris- 
tian religion.  5.  They  who  are  most  forward  in  censu- 
ring others  are  often  most  defective  themselves.”  See 
Barrow’s  IFor/rs,  vol.  i,  ser.  20;  Blair’s  Sermons , ser,  10, 
vol.  ii ; Saurin’s  Sermons,  ser.  4,  vol.  v. — Buck. 

Judgment,  considered  as  a technical  and  scientific 
term  of  logic,  is  an  act  of  the  mind  by  which  something 
is  affirmed.  In  this  restricted  sense  it  is  one  of  the  sim- 
plest acts  or  operations  of  which  we  are  conscious  in  the 
exercise  of  our  rational  powers.  The  intellectual  fac- 
ulty called  judgment  is  the  power  of  determining  any- 
thing to  be  true  or  false.  In  every  instance  of  memory 
or  perception  there  is  involved  some  judgment,  some 
feeling  of  relationship,  of  space,  or  time,  or  similarity,  or 
contrast.  Consciousness  necessarily  involves  a judg- 
ment ; and,  as  every  act  of  mind  is  an  act  of  conscious- 
ness, every  act  of  mind  consequently  involves  a judg- 
ment. It  is  a process  not  only  subsequent  to  the  acqui- 
sition of  knowledge,  but  “involved  as  a condition  of  the 
acquisitive  process  itself.”  There  is  not  only  included 
what  is  popularly  understood  as  comparison  (when  the 
properties  of  bodies  are  compared),  but  that  elemen- 
tary faculty,  that  fundamental  law  or  innate  idea,  which, 
in  the  first  instance,  makes  us  cognizant  of  the  property. 
Hence  Sir  William  Hamilton’s  division  into  derivative 
and  primitive  cognitions,  the  derivative  being  of  our 
own  fabrication,  formed  from  certain  rules,  and  being 
the  tardy  result  of  perception  and  memory,  of  attention, 

I reflection,  abstraction.  These  are  derived  from  expe- 


JUDGMENT  1080  JUDGMENT 


ricnce,  and,  as  such,  are  contingent ; and  as  all  expe- 
rience is  contingent,  all  the  knowledge  derived  from 
experience  is  contingent  also.  But,  as  there  are  condi- 
tions of  the  mind  which  are  not  contingent,  which  are 
necessary,  which  we  cannot  but  think,  which  thought 
supposes  as  its  fundamental  condition,  these  are  denom- 
inated primitive  cognitions;  these  primitive  and  gen- 
eral notions  being  the  root  of  all  principles,  the  founda- 
tion of  the  whole  edifice  of  science.  For  the  discovery 
of  this  great  truth  we  are  indebted  to  Leibnitz,  who,  in 
controverting  Locke’s  view  of  innate  ideas,  asserted  the 
existence  of  a principle  of  human  knowledge  indepen- 
dent of  and  superior  to  that  which  is  afforded  by  the 
senses.  Kant,’ adopting  Leibnitz’s  view,  furnishes  a 
test  by  which  these  two  elements  are  distinguished  from 
each  other : the  former,  being  contingent,  are  fluctu- 
ating and  uncertain ; they  may  be  in  the  mind,  or  they 
may  not.  Every  fresh  scene  ill  which  we  are  placed 
completely  alters  the  sensations,  and  the  particular  sen- 
sational judgments  of  which  we  are  conscious.  On  the 
contrary,  our  primitive  judgments  are  steady,  abiding, 
unalterable.  These  primitive  judgments,  he  asserts,  are 
of  two  kinds,  analytic  and  synthetic.  An  analytic  judg- 
ment is  simply  a declaration  of  something  necessarily 
belonging  to  a given  notion,  as  that  every  triangle  has 
three  sides.  A synthetic  judgment  may  be  a declara- 
tion of  something  which  does  not  actually  belong  to  a 
notion,  but  which  our  minds  are  led,  by  some  kind  of 
evidence  or  other,  to  attribute  to  it,  as  “ Every  event  has 
an  efficient  cause.”  Here  we  do  more  than  analyze  the 
expression : we  attribute  altogether  a fresh  notion  to  it, 
and  form  a judgment  by  which  otir  knowledge  is  ex- 
tended. Both  these  judgments  are  found  in  the  pure 
sciences,  and  form  the  very  principles  upon  which  they 
are  pursued.  It  may  be  well  to  remark,  however,  that 
Comte,  Herbert  .Spencer,  Mill,  etc.,  following  Locke, 
deny  the  existence  of  these  primitive  judgments  alto- 
gether, even  the  axioms  which  stand  at  the  head  of 
mathematical  reasoning.  So  far  from  being  mental  and 
subjective,  they  are  truly  inductive,  derived  from  ob- 
servation ; only  that  observation  is  so  constant,  and  that 
induction  is  so  easy  and  immediate,  that  we  fall  easily 
into  an  impression  that  these  laws  are  intuitive,  where- 
as they  are,  in  fact,  experimental.  For  instance,  the 
axioms  and  postdates  which  are  the  basis  of  Euclid’s 
Geometry  are  not  metaphysical— written  on  the  intel- 
lect, and  drawn  out  of  the  brain — they  are  only  state- 
ments of  laws  observed  and  experienced.  .See  Watts, 
Logic,  eli.  iv,  p.  231 ; Locke,  On  the  Understanding , i, 
222,  25G;  ii,  271,  278;  Duncan,  Logic,  p.  145;  Reid,  On 
the  Intellectual  Powers,  p.  497,  etc.  (E.  de  P.) 

JUDGMENT,  Eight  of  Piuvate.  The  Church  of 
Borne  denies  the  right  as  claimed  by  Protestants  on  the 
following  grounds:  that  the.  Church,  being  assisted  by 
the  Spirit  of  Cod  in  searching  the  Scriptures,  having  the 
promise  of  the  presence  of  Jesus  to  the  end  of  the  world, 
and  having  the  possession  of  the  unwritten  word  as  a 
commentary  on  the  written,  is  the  only  safe  interpreter 
•if  holy  Scripture,  and  the  supreme  judge  by  whose  de- 
finitive sentence  all  controversies  with  regard  to  the 
■meaning  of  particular  passages  or  the  general  doctrine 
of  holy  Scripture  must  be  determined.  It  makes  a dis- 
tinction, however,  between  the  learned  exegesis,  as  ap- 
plied to  the  sacred  writings,  and  that  interpretation 
which  emanates  from  the  Church.  The  interpretation 
of  the  Church  does  not  descend  to  the  details  which 
must  claim  the  attention  of  the  scientific  exegetist. 
Tims,  for  example,  she  does  not  hold  it  her  duty,  nor  in-  , 
elude  it  in  the  compass  of  her  rights,  to  determine  when, ' 
by  whom,  ami  for  what  object  the  book  of  Job  was! 
written;  or  what  particular  inducement  engaged  St. 
John  to  publish  his  Gospel,  or  St.  Paul  to  address  an 
epistle  to  the  llomans;  in  what  order  of  time  the  epis- 
tles of  (he  apostle  followed  each  other,  etc.  As  little  does 
she  undertake  to  explain  particular  words  and  verses, 
their  hearings  one  on  the  other,  or  the  connection  exist- 
ing between  larger  portions  of  the  sacred  book.  An- 


tiquities, in  the  widest  sense  of  the  word,  fall  not  within 
the  domain  of  her  interpretation ; in  short,  that  inter- 
pretation extends  only  to  doctrines  of  faith  and  morals. 
Within  these  limits  she  declares  it  to  be  the  duty  of 
Christians  to  acquiesce  in  this  infallible  determination, 
and  that  it  is  presumption  and  impiety,  and  a sin  for 
which  they  deserve  everlasting  punishment,  to  oppose 
their  own  private  judgment,  which  cannot  of  itself  at- 
tain the  truth,  to  the  decision  of  the  Church,  which  can- 
not err. 

To  this  extraordinary  claim  Protestants  agree  in  op- 
posing this  principle,  that  the  holy  Scriptures  are  the 
only  rule  of  faith.  But,  while  there  is  a general  agree- 
ment as  to  this,  i.  e.  to  receive  tlie  Scriptures  as  a suffi- 
cient rule  of  faith,  and  as  the  only  authoritative  rule, 
there  are  wide  diversities  of  opinion  concerning  the 
power  reserved  to  the  Church  as  to  the  doctrines  of  re- 
ligion. The  extreme  view  is  that  the  Church  at  no 
time  possesses  the  right  of  intermeddling  in  articles  of 
faith.  The  essential  articles  of  faith  are  so  few,  so  sim- 
ple, and  so  easily  gathered  out  of  clear  and  explicit  pas- 
sages, that  it  is  impossible  for  any  man  who  has  the 
exercise  of  his  reason  to  miss  them ; that  no  harm  can 
arise  from  allowing  any  man  to  interpret  the  Scriptures 
as  he  pleases;  and  that,  as  Scripture  maybe  sufficiently 
understood  for  purposes  of  salvation  without  any  foreign 
assistance,  all  creeds  and  confessions  of  faith  composed 
and  prescribed  by  human  authority  are  an  encroach- 
ment upon  the  prerogative  of  the  supreme  Teacher,  and 
an  invasion  of.  the  right  of  private  judgment.  Such 
furthermore  maintain  that  all  divisions  among  Chris- 
tians have  grown  out  of  the  attempt  of  the  Church  to 
force  upon  Christians  uniformity  of  belief  as  to  the  doc- 
trines of  holy  Scripture. 

This  view  of  the  right  of  private  judgment  is  gener- 
ally held  by  the  followers  of  Soeinus,  and  among  its 
ablest  champions  at  the  present  day  are  some  of  the 
leading  minds  of  the  Church  of  England,  who,  on  ac- 
count of  their  peculiar  views,  are  denominated  Moder- 
ate, Catholic,  Broad  Church,  by  the  friends  of  that  party; 
Latitudinarian,  or  Indifferent,  by  its  enemies.  Believ- 
ing that  the  superficial  differences  between  Christians 
are  as  nothing  in  comparison  with  their  essential  agree- 
ment, they  are  willing  that  the  portals  of  the  Church 
should  be  flung  as  wide  open  as  the  gates  of  heaven. 
This  is  clearly  set  forth  by  the  late  Dr.  Arnold : “All 
societies  of  men,  whether  we  call  them  states  or  church- 
es, should  make  their  bond  to  consist  in  a common  ob- 
ject and  a common  practice  rather  than  in  a common 
belief;  in  other  words,  their  end  should  be  good  rather 
than  truth.  We  may  consent  to  act  together,  but  we 
cannot  consent  to  believe  together;  many  motives  may 
persuade  us  to  the  one:  we  may  like  the  object,  or  we 
may  like  our  company,  or  we  may  think  it  safest  to  join 
them,  or  most  convenient,  and  any  one  of  these  motives 
is  quite  sufficient  to  induce  a unity  of  action,  action  be- 
ing a thing  in  our  own  power.  But  no  motives  can  per- 
suade us  to  believe  together;  we  may  wish  a statement 
to  be  true,  we  may  admire  those  who  believe  it,  we  may 
find  it  very  inconvenient  not  to  believe  it;  all  this  helps 
us  nothing;  unless  our  own  mind  is  freely  convinced  that 
the  statement  or  doctrine  is  true,  we  cannot  by  possibil- 
ity believe  it. 

“ Such  a union  of  action  appears  historically  to  have 
been  the  original  bond  of  the  Christian  Church.  Who- 
ever was  willing  to  receive  Christ  as  bis  Master,  to  join 
his  people,  and  to  walk  according  to  his  rules,  was 
admitted  to  the  Christian  society.  We  know  that  in 
the  earliest  Chureli  there  existed  the  strangest  varieties 
of  belief,  some  Christians  not  even  believing  that  there 
would  be  a resurrection  of  the  dead.  Of  course  it  was 
not  intended  that  such  varieties  should  be  perpetual ; a 
closer  union  of  belief  was  gradually  effected ; but  the 
point  to  observe  is  that  the  union  of  belief  grew  out  of 
the  union  of  action;  it  was  the  result  of  belonging  to 
the  society  rather  than  a previous  condition  required  for 
belonging  to  it,  for  no  human  power  can  presume  to 


JUDGMENT 


1081 


JUDGMENT  DAY 


inquire  into  the  degree  of  a man’s  positive  belief.  A 
general,  hearty  belief  in  Christianity  is  to  be  regarded 
by  the  Church,  not  as  its  starting-point,  but  as  its  high- 
est perfection.  To  begin  with  a strict  creed  and  no  effi- 
cient Christian  institutions  is  the  sure  way  to  hypocrisy 
and  unbelief ; to  begin  with  the  most  general  confession 
of  faith  imputed,  that  is,  as  a test  of  membership,  but 
with  vigorous  Christian  Institutions,  is  the  way  most 
likely  to  lead  not  only  to  a real  and  general  belief,  but 
also  to  a lively  perception  of  the  highest  points  of  Chris- 
tian faith.  In  other  words,  intellectual  objections  to 
Christianity  should  be  tolerated  when  they  are  com- 
bined with  moral  obedience ; tolerated,  because  in  this 
way  they  are  most  surely  removed ; whereas  a corrupt  or 
disorganized  Church,  with  a minute  creed,  encourages 
intellectual  objections;  and  if  it  proceeds  to  put  them 
down  by  force,  it  does  often  violate  the  right  of  con- 
science, punishing  an  unbelief  which  its  own  evil  had 
provoked,  and,  so  far  as  human  judgment  can  see,  has 
in  a great  measure  justified.  In  primitive  usage,  a her- 
etic was  not  properly  he  who  did  not  believe  what  the 
Church  taught,  but  he  who  wilfully  withdrew  himself 
from  its  society,  refusing  to  conform  to  its  system,  and 
setting  up  another  system  of  his  own.” 

To  most  Protestants,  however,  this  plan  seems  very 
defective.  Regarding  the  Christian  Church  as  a soci- 
ety created  by  divine  institution,  it  possesses  all  the 
authority  which  Christ  meant  to  convey  through  his 
apostles  to  their  successors,  and  of  the  exercise  of  which 
the  apostles  have  left  examples.  They  deem  it  to  be 
incontrovertible  that  these  successive  teachers  in  the 
Christian  Church  were  intended  to  be  interpreters  and 
expounders  of  the  sacred  book ; that  they  are  invested 
with  authority  in  relation  to  the  doctrines  of  holy  Scrip- 
ture; and  that,  as  a mere  acknowledgment  of  the  truth 
of  Scripture  is  not  a sufficient  security  for  soundness  of 
faith,  it  is  lawful  for  the  Church  to  employ  additional 
guards  to  that  form  of  sound  words”  which  it  is  re- 
quired to  hold  fast  and  to  defend.  It  is  one  thing  to 
say  that  the  Bible  is  the  rule  of  faith,  and  another  to 
say  that  it  is  the  judge  to  determine  what  that  ride  is. 
The  latter  it  can  as  little  be  as  the  code  of  civil  law  can 
exercise  the  functions  of  the  judge ; it  forms,  indeed,  the 
rule  of  judgment,  but  it  does  not  itself  pronounce  judg- 
ment. Hence  the  twentieth  article  of  the  Church  of 
England  declares  that  “ the  Church  hath  authority  in 
matters  of  faith.”  So  the  Westminster  Confession,  “ It 
bclongeth  to  synods  and  councils  ministerially  to  de- 
termine controversies  of  faith.”  See  Rogers,  Reason  and 
Faith;  Wilson, A postolic Fathers ; Elliot, Delineation  of 
Romanism  (see  Index);  Litton,  Church  of  Christ , p.  77 
$q.  (E.  de  P.) 

JUDGMENT,  The  Last,  the  sentence  that  will  be 
passed  on  our  actions  at  the  last  day,  when  the  everlast- 
ing designs  of  God  concerning  this  loiver  creation  shall 
be  accomplished,  an  end  put  to  time,  and  the  destinies 
of  the  human  race  fixed  for  eternity.  This  is  one  of  the 
peculiar  doctrines  of  revelation,  a doctrine  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  There  were,  indeed,  some  hints  of  it  in 
the  Old  Testament;  but  it  is  in  the  New  Testament 
that  we  have  it  frequently  and  particularly  declared  and 
described,  with  the  circumstances  with  which  it  will  be 
attended.  It  is  a doctrine,  too,  which  is  entirely  agree- 
able to  reason,  which  fully  concurs  with  revelation  in 
directing  our  minds  to  a state  of  retribution,  there  being 
no  alternative,  if  ve  hold  not  the  truth  of  a judgment 
to  come,  but  the  holding  that  the  creation  is  not  under 
a moral  government.  For,  on  the  one  hand,  there  is  no 
doubt  that  we  live  under  a retributive  government,  and 
that  cognizance  is  taken  of  our  actions  by  an  invisible 
but  ever-present  Being,  whose  attributes  render  him  the 
determined  foe  of  vice,  and  the  steadfast  upholder  of 
righteousness.  On  the  other  hand,  there  has  been  an 
irresistible  demonstration,  from  the  experience  of  all 
ages,  that  no  accurate  proportion  is  at  present  main- 
tained between  conduct  and  condition.  The  wicked 
triumph  in  their  iniquity,  while  virtue  is  despised;  her 


humble  votaries  are  borne  down  by  the  gloom  of  adversi- 
ty, or  reared  in  the  midst  of  sorrows  and  tears.  In  every 
age  of  the  world,  therefore,  men  have  been  perplexed  by 
what  seemed  opposite  evidences  as  to  the  superintend- 
ing care  of  a wise  and  beneficent  Being.  The  only  way 
to  escape  the  difficulty  is  an  appeal  to  the  future;  for 
either  the  idea  is  erroneous  of  one  living  under  a moral 
government  at  all,  or  that  moral  government  must  have 
another  scene  of  display  where  its  impartiality  shall  be 
vindicated,  and  every  discrepancy  removed.  See  I"’ idler, 
Work,  ii,  78,  106,  1*52,  211,  367,*  392,  437,  841,  859,  871, 
883,906;  Dwight,  Theology;  Irvin  g,  Argument  for  Judg- 
ment to  come.  See  Judgment  Day.  (E.  de  P.) 

Judgment  Day,  a term  generally  used  to  desig- 
nate that  important  day  which  is  to  terminate  the  pres- 
ent dispensation  of  grace ; at  the  end  of  the  world,  when 
time  shall  be  no  more,  and  the  eternal  state  of  all  men 
be  unchangeably  fixed  (2  Pet.  iii,  7). 

I.  Proof  of  a general  Judgment. — The  arguments  for 
this  are  these  : 1.  The  justice  of  God  requires  it ; for  it 
is  evident  that  this  attribute  is  not  clearly  displayed  in 
tlie  dispensation  of  things  in  the  present  state  (2  Thess. 
i,6,7;  Luke  xiv,26).  2.  The  accusations  of  natural  con- 
science are  testimonies  in  favor  of  this  belief  (Rom.  ii, 
15;  Dan.  v,  5,  6;  Acts  xxiv,  25).  3.  It  may  be  con- 
cluded, from  the  relation  men  stand  in  to  God,  as  crea- 
tures to  a Creator.  lie  has  a right  to  give  them  a law, 
and  to  make  them  accountable  for  the  breach  of  it  (Rom. 
xiv,  12).  4.  The  resurrection  of  Christ  is  a certain  proof 
of  it.  See  Acts  xvii,  31 ; Rom.  xiv,  9.  5.  The  Scrip- 
ture, in  a variety  of  places,  sets  it  beyond  all  doubt  (Jude 
14,  15;  2 Cor.  v,  10;  Matt,  xxv;  Rom.  xiv,  10,  11;  2 
Thess.  i,7, 10;  1 Thess.  iv,  16,  17).  See  above,  Judg- 
ment, Last. 

II.  The  Judge.  — The  Bible  declares  that  God  will 
judge  the  world  by  Jesus  Christ  (Acts  xvii,  31).  The 
triune  God  will  he  the  Judge,  as  to  original  authority, 
power,  and  right  of  judgment;  but  according  to  the 
economy  settled  between  the  three  divine  persons,  the 
work  is  assigned  to  the  Son  (Rom.  xiv,  9,  10),  who  will 
appear  in  his  human  nature  (John  v,  27 ; Acts  xvii,  31), 
with  great  power  and  glory  (1  Thess.  iv,  16, 17);  visible 
to  every  eye  (Rev.  i,  7);  penetrating  every  heart  (1  Cor. 
iv,  5;  Rom.  ii,  16);  with  full  authority  over  all  (Matt, 
xxviii,  18),  and  acting  with  strict  justice  (2  Tim.  iv,  8). 

, As  for  the  concern  of  others  in  the  judgment,  angels 
will  be  no  otherwise  concerned  than  as  attendants,  gath- 
ering the  elect,  raising  the  dead,  etc.,  but  not  as  advising 
or  judging.  Saints  are  said  to  judge  the  world,  not  as 
co-judges  with  Christ,  but  as  approvers  of  his  sentence, 
and  as  their  holy  lives  and  exhortations  will  rise  up  in 
judgment  agaiust  their  wicked  neighbors  (1  Cor.  vi, 2,3). 

III.  The  Persons  that  trill  he  judged. — These  will  be 
men  and  devils.  The  righteous  will  probably  be  tried 
first,  as  represented  in  Matt.  xxv.  They  will  be  raised 
first,  though  perhaps  not  a thousand  years  before  the 
rest,  as  some  have  supposed  [see  Millennium]  ; since 
the  resurrection  of  all  the  bodies  of  the  saints  is  spoken 
of  as  in  a moment,  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye,  at  the 
last  trump,  in  order  to  their  meeting  the  Lord  in  the 
air,  and  being  with  him,  not  on  earth,  but  forever  in 
heaven  (1  Cor.  xv,  52;  1 Thess.  iv,  16, 17). 

IV.  The  Ride  of  Judgment. — We  arc  informed  that  the 
books  will  be  opened  (Rev.  xx,  12) : 1.  The  book  of  di- 
vine omniscience  (Mai.  iii,  5),  or  remembrance  (Mai.  iii, 

15) ;  2.  The  book  of  conscience  (Rom.  i,  16);  3.  The 
book  of  Providence  (Rom.  ii,  4,  5);  4.  The  book  of  the 
Scriptures,  law,  and  Gospel  (John  xii,  48;  Rom.  ii.  12, 

16) ;  5.  The  book  of  life  (Luke  x,  20;  Rev.  iii,  5;  xx, 
12, 15). 

V.  The  Time  of  Judgment. — The  soul  will  be  either 
happy  or  miserable  immediately  after  death,  but  the 
general  judgment  will  not  be  till  after  the  resurrection 
(Ileb.  ix,  27).  There  is  a day  appointed  (Acts  xvii,  31), 
but  it  is  unknown  to  men.  See  Intermediate  State. 

VI.  The  Place. — This  is  also  uncertain.  Some  sup- 
pose it  will  be  in  the  air,  because  the  judge  w ill  come  in 


JUDGMENT-HALL  1082  JUDICIAL  BLINDNESS 


the  clouds  of  heaven,  aud  the  living  saints  will  then  be 
changed,  and  the  dead  saints  raised,  and  both  be  caught 
up  to  meet  the  Lord  in  the  air  (1  Thess.  iv,  16, 17).  Oth- 
ers think  it  will  be  on  the  earth,  on  the  new  earth,  on 
which  they  will  descend  from  the  air  with  Christ.  The 
place  where,  however,  is  of  no  consequence,  when  com- 
pared with  the  state  in  which  we  shall  appear.  As  the 
Scriptures  represent  it  as  certain  (Eccles.  xi,  9),  univer- 
sal (2  ( 'or.  v.  1 1),  righteous  (Horn,  ii,  5),  decisive  (1  Cor. 
xv,  52),  and  eternal  as  to  its  consequences  (Heb.  vi,  2), 
let  us  be  concerned  for  the  welfare  of  our  immortal  in- 
terests. dee  to  the  refuge  set  before  us,  improve  our  pre- 
cious time,  depend  on  the  merits  of  the  Redeemer,  and 
adhere  to  the  dictates  of  the  divine  Word,  that  we  may 
be  found  of  him  in  peace.  See  Bates,  Works,  p.  449; 
1 lopkius  and  Stoddard,  On  the  Lust  Judgment ; Gill,  Body 
of  Divinity,  ii,  467,  8vo;  Boston,  Fourfold  State ; Her- 
vey,  IForL,  new  edition,  i,  72,  75;  ii,  28,  223;  iv,  155. — 
Henderson’s  Buck.  See  Resurrection. 

Judgment-hall.  See  Pr.etorium. 

Judgment-seat  (finga,  properly  a step,  hence  a 
rostrum  or  stage  for  speakers;  as  a “ throne,”  e.  g.  Her- 
od’s in  the  theatre  at  Ciesarea,  Acts  xii,  21),  an  elevated 
seat  or  tribunal  (in  James  ii,  6,  the  term  is  Kpmjpiov,  a 
court  of  justice),  especially  of  the  Roman  governor 
(Matt,  xxvii,  19;  John  xix,  13;  Acts  xviii,  12,  16, 17 ; 
xxv,  6, 10, 17):  hence  of  the  dual  bar  of  God  (Rom.  xiv, 
10 ; 2 Cor.  v,  10).  See  Pavement. 


Roman  Judgment-scat.  (From  a unique  example  at 
Wilton  House.) 


J udgments  of  < Jon.  1.  This  expression  is  of  fre- 
quent occurrence  in  the  Scriptures,  and  its  sense  is  gen- 
erally determined  by  the  connection.  When  God’s  judg- 
ments are  s| token  of,  the  term  may  denote  either  the 
secret  decisions  of  the  divine  will  (Psa.  x,  5;  xxxvi,  6), 
or  the  declarations  of  God’s  will  revealed  in  the  Scrip- 
tures (Exod.  xx i,  1;  Dent,  vii,  12;  Neh.  ix,  13;  Psa. 
cxix,  , G5),  or  the  inflictions  of  punishment  on  the 
wicked  (Exod.  vi,  0 ; xii,  12;  Prov.  xix,  29;  Ezek.  xxv, 
11 ; Rev.  xyi,  7).  The  Scriptures  give  us  many  awful 
instances  of  the  display  of  divine  justice  in  the  punish- 
ment of  nations,  families,  and  individuals  for  their  in- 
iquities. Sec  Gen.  vii;  xix,  25;  Exod.  xv:  Jiulg.  i,  0, 
7;  Acts  xii,  23;  Esther  v,  14,  with  vii,  10;  2 IxinAs  xi; 
Lev.  X,  I,  2;  Acts  v,  1-10;  Isa.  xxx,  15;  1 Sam.  xv, 
9;  1 Kings  xii,  25,  33. 

2.  In  a less  legitimate  application,  the  strange  trials 
to  which  those  suspected  of  guilt  were  put  in  the  Mid- 
dle Ages,  conducted  ' ith  many' devout  ceremonies  by 


the  ministers  of  religion,  and  pronounced  to  be  the 
judgments  of  God!  The  ordeal  consisted  of  various 
kinds:  walking  blindfold  amid  burning  ploughshares, 
holding  in  the  hand  a red-hot  bar,  and  plunging  the  arm 
into  boiling  -water.  The  popular  affirmation,  “I  will 
put  my  hand  into  the  fire  to  confirm  this,”  appears  to  be 
derived  from  this  solemn  custom.  Challenging  the  ac- 
cuser to  single  combat,  when  frequently  the  stoutest 
champion  was  allowed  to  supply  their  place ; swallow- 
ing a morsel  of  consecrated  bread ; sinking  or  swimming 
in  a river  for  witchcraft,  or  weighing  a witch ; stretch- 
ing out  the  arms  before  the  cross,  till  the  champion 
soonest  wearied  dropped  his  arms  and  lost  his  estate, 
which  was  decided  by  the  very  short  chancery  suit  call- 
ed the  judicium  crucis. 

Those  who  were  accused  of  robbery  were  put  to  trial 
by  a piece  of  barley  bread,  on  which  the  mass  had  been 
said,  and,  if  they  could  not  swallow  it,  were  declared 
guilty.  Probably  the  saying,  “ May  this  piece  of  bread 
choke  me,”  comes  from  this  custom.  Among  the  proofs 
of  guilt  was  that  of  the  bleeding  of  a corpse.  If  a person 
was  murdered,  it  was  believed  that  at  the  touch  or  ap- 
proach of  the  murderer  the  blood  gushed  out  of  the  body 
in  various  parts.  By  the  side  of  the  bier,  if  the  slight- 
est change  was  observable  in  the  eyes,  the  month,  feet, 
or  hands  of  the  corpse,  the  murderer  was  conjectured  to 
be  present;  and  it  is  probable  that  many  innocent  spec- 
tators have  suffered  death  in  consequence. 

It  is  well  to  mark,  in  extenuation  of  these  absurd  prac- 
tices of  our  rude  ancestors,  that  these  customs  were  a 
substitute  for  written  laws  which  that  barbarous  period 
had  not ; and  as  no  community  can  exist  without  laws , 
the  ignorance  of  the  people  had  recourse  to  these  cus- 
toms, which,  bad  and  absurd  as  they  were,  served  to 
close  controversies  which  otherwise  might  have  given 
birth  to  more  destructive  practices.  Ordeals  are,  in 
truth,  the  rude  laws  of  a barbarous  people  who  have  not 
yet  obtained  a written  code,  and  not  advanced  enough 
in  civilization  to  enter  into  refined  inquiries,  the  subtle 
distinctions  and  elaborate  investigations  which  a court 
of  law  demands. 

It  is  a well-established  fact,  however,  that  they  were 
acquainted  in  those  times  with  secrets  to  pass  unhurt 
these  singular  trials.  This  was  especially  the  case  with 
ordeals  of  fire  and  boiling  water.  Doubtless  the  more 
knowing  ones  possessed  those  secrets  and  medicaments 
which  they  had  at  hand  to  pass  through  these  trials  in 
perfect  security.  See  Jortin,  Remarks  on  Eccles.  Hist. 
iii,  246  sq.  See  Ordeal.  (E.  de  P.) 

Judicature,  Courts  of.  See  Judge;  Court; 
Trial;  Tribunal;  Council,  etc. 

Judices  electi,  select  judges,  is  a term  applied  to  a 
number  of  judges  occasionally  selected  to  hear  an  appeal 
from  an  excommunicated  presbyter  or  deacon  against 
his  own  bishop.  The  Council  of  Sardica  allowed  an 
appeal  to  the  metropolitan ; and  in  such  a case  the  me- 
tropolitan had  three  ways  of  proceeding — either  to  select 
a number  of  judges,  generally  twelve,  to  hear  the  case; 
or  to  refer  the  matter  to  a provincial  synod ; or  to  hear 
the  causes  himself  without  a synod.  It  is,  however, 
doubtful  whether  a metropolitan  had  power  to  depose  a 
bishop. — Farrar,  Eccles.  Diet.  s.  v. 

Judicial  Blindness  or  Hardness,  a term  employ- 
ed to  express  a state  of  moral  incorrigibility.  So  we 
read, Mark  iii,  5, “Being  grieved  for  the  blindness — hard- 
ness— of  their  hearts.”  So  Rom.  xi,  25,  “ Blindness — 
hardness — in  part  hath  happened  to  Israel.”  Eph.  iv,  18, 
" Because  of  the  blindness — hardness — of  their  hearts.” 
2 Cor.  iii,  14,  “Their  minds  were  blinded — hardened  f 
and  elsewhere.  This  expression  is  of  special  interest  to 
the  theologian  on  account  of  two  questions  connected 
with  it. 

1.  Is  it  an  infliction  of  God ? — From  such  passages  as 
Isa.  vi,  10,  some  have  said  that  God  commands  the 
prophet  to  do  a certain  thing  to  this  people,  and  then 
punishes  the  people:  nay,  this  appears  stronger  still, 


JUDICIUM  DEI  1083  JUDITH,  BOOK  OF 


where  the  passage  is  quoted,  as  (John  xii,40),  He  hath 
blinded  their  eyes  and  hardened  their  hearts;  which 
seems  to  be  contradictory  to  Matt,  xiii,  15,  where  the 
people  themselves  are  said  to  have  closed  their  own 
eyes ; and  so  Acts  xxviii,  27.  These  seeming  contra- 
dictions are  very  easily  reconciled.  God,  by  giving 
plenty  and  abundance,  affords  the  means  of  the  people’s 
abusing  his  goodness,  and  becoming  both  over-fat  with 
food  and  intoxicated  with  drink ; and  thus  his  very  be- 
neficence may  be  said  to  make  their  heart  fat,  and  their 
eyes  heavy,  while  at  the  same  time  the  people,  by  their 
own  act,  their  overfeeding,  become  unwieldy,  indolent, 
bloated,  over-fat  at  heart,  and,  moreover,  so  stupefied 
by  liquor  and  strong  drink,  that  their  eyes  and  ears  may 
be  useless  to  them  : with  wide-open  eyes,  “ staring,  they 
may  stare,  but  not  perceive;  and  listening,  they  may 
hear,  but  not  understand and  in  this  lethargic  state 
they  will  continue,  preferring  it  to  a more  sedate,  ra- 
tional condition,  and  refusing  to  forbear  from  prolonging 
the  causes  of  it,  lest  at  any  sober  interval  they  should 
see  truly  with  their  eyes  and  hear  accurately  with  their 
ears,  in  consequence  of  which  they  should  be  shocked 
at  themselves,  be  converted,  be  changed  from  such  mis- 
conduct, and  I should  heal  them — should  cure  these  de- 
lusory effects  of  their  surfeits  and  dissoluteness.  Comp. 
Isa.  v,  11 ; xxviii,  7.  This  is  equally  true  in  spiritual 
matters.  In  short,  the  expressions  in  question  are  to  be 
understood  in  the  same  sense  as  the  hardening  of  Pha- 
raoh’s heart  under  a perversion  by  his  own  wilfulness 
of  the  providences  of  God  (Rom.  ix,  17, 18).  See  Pre- 
destination. 

2.  Is  this  state  hopeless  ? — That  sinners  may,  by  a 
course  of  persistent  opposition  to  God,  so  far  destroy  or 
deaden  their  conscience  as  to  be  beyond  the  hope  (but  not 
absolutely  the  power)  of  divine  grace,  is  a fearful  fact, 
and  one  corroborated  by  the  Holy  Scriptures  (1  Tim.  iv, 
2;  Rom.  i,  28;  2 Thess.  ii,  11 , Heb.  vi,  6).  But  this 
condition,  again,  is  not  so  much  the  result  of  God’s  de- 
termination as  of  their  own  inveterate  perversity.  See 
Unpardonable  Sin. 

Judicium  Dei.  See  Judgments  of  God. 

Ju'dith  (Heb.  Yehudiih,'  r”l7!in%  Jewess;  Septuag. 
Toucji'3),  the  name  of  two  females;  properly  the  femi- 
nine form  of  Judceus  (comp.  Jer.  xxxvi,  14,  21) ; 

but  in  the  passage  of  Genesis  it  is  generally  taken  as 
the  correlative  of  Judah,  i.  e.  “praised” 

1.  The  daughter  of  Beeri,  the  Hittite,  and  one  of  the 
first  two  wives  of  Esau  (Gen.  xxvi,  34).  She  is  else- 
where more  correctly  called  Aiiolibamaii,  the  daughter 
of  Anah  the  Horite  (Gen.  xxxvi,  2-14).  See  Esau. 

2.  The  heroine  of  the  apocryphal  book  which  bears 
her  name,  who  appears  as  an  ideal  type  of  piety  (Jud. 
viii,  6),  beauty  (xi,  21),  courage,  and  chastity  (xvi,  22 
sq.).  Her  supposed  descent  from  Simeon  (ix,  2),  and 
the  manner  in  which  she  refers  to  his  cruel  deed  (Gen. 
xxxiv,  25  sq.),  mark  the  conception  of  the  character, 
which  evidently  belongs  to  a period  of  stern  and  peril- 
ous conflict.  The  most  unscrupulous  daring  (ch.  xiii)  is 
combined  with  zealous  ritualism  (xii,  1 sq.),  and  faith  is 
turned  to  action  rather  than  to  supplication  (viii, 31  sq.). 
Clement  of  Rome  {Ep.  i,  55)  assigns  to  Judith  the  epi- 
thet given  to  Jael  (Toucrif?  i)  paKapta );  and  Jerome 
sees  in  her  exploit  the  image  of  the  victory  of  the 
Church  over  the  power  of  evil  (Ep.  lxxix,  II,  p.  508; 
Judith  ...  in  typo  Ecclesia?  diabolum  capite  trunca- 
vit ; compare  Ep.  xxii,  21,  p.  105).  According  to  the 
Greek  text,  Judith  was  the  rich  widow  of  Manasses  of 
Bethulia  ; to  which  the  Vulgate  adds  that  she  was  the 
daughter  of  Merari,  or  more  properly  Beari  ("“N"),  as 
the  Hebrew  recension  has  it;  the  latter  also  places  her 
in  the  days  of  Maccabieus,  which  is  undoubtedly  correct. 
— Smith;  Kitto.  See  Judith,  Book  of. 

JUDITH,  Book  of,  one  of  the  most  interesting  of 
the  apocryphal  books,  which  has  called  forth  a greater 
variety  of  opinions  among  interpreters  since  the  days  of 
the  Reformation  than  almost  any  other  of  the  Deutero- 


canonical  productions.  Our  statements  on  the  subject 
are  largely  taken  from  the  article  in  Kitto’s  Cyclopaedia. 

I.  Title  and,  Position  of  the  Book. — The  book  is  named 
after  its  heroine,  rH7‘i“l?  = Jewess.  St.  Jerome’s  opin- 
ion, that  it  is  so  called  because  Judith  was  the  authoress 
of  it  ( Comment . in  A <j<j.  i,  6),  is  rightly  rejected  by  every 
scholar.  In  the  MSS.  of  the  Alexandrine  version,  the 
Vulgate,  and  in  Wycliffe’s  translation,  Judith  is  plaeed 
between  Tobit  and  Esther.  This  is  followed  by  Cover- 
dale,  the  Geneva  version,  the  Bishops’  Bible,  and  the  A. 
V.,  where,  from  the  nature  of  the  division,  it  is  put  be- 
tween Tobit  and  the  apocryphal  Esther.  In  the  Vati- 
can copies  it  is  placed  between  Tobit  and  the  ‘Wisdom 
of  Solomon  ; in  the  Zurich  Bible,  between  Baruch  and 
the  apocryphal  Esther;  whilst  Luther  puts  it  at  the 
head  of  the  apocryphal  books. 

II.  Desiyn  and  Contents  of  the  Book. — The  object  of 
this  book  evidently  is  to  show  that  as  long  as  God’s  peo- 
ple walk  in  his  commandments  blamelessly,  no  matter 
how  distressing  the  circumstances  in  which  they  may 
temporarily  be  placed,  the  Lord  will  not  suffer  the  ene- 
my to  triumph  over  them,  but  will  in  due  time  appear 
for  their  deliverance,  and  cause  even  those  who  are  not 
Jews  to  acknowledge  that  the  God  of  Israel  is  the  only 
true  God.  In  its  external  form  this  book  bears  the 
character  of  the  record  of  a historical  event,  describing 
the  complete  defeat  of  the  Assyrians  by  the  Jews 
through  the  prowess  of  a woman. 

In  the  twelfth  year  of  his  reign,  Nebuchadnezzar, 
or,  as  he  is  called  in  the  Greek,  Nabuchodonosor,  king 
of  Assyria  in  Nineveh,  assisted  by  the  nations  who 
dwelt  in  the  hill-country,  by  Euphrates,  Tigris,  Hydas- 
pes,  and  by  the  plain  of  Arioch,  king  of  the  Elymse- 
ans,  made  war  against  Arphaxad,  king  of  Media,  who 
had  fortified  himself  in  Ecbatana  (i,  1-7)  ; and,  despite 
the  inhabitants  of  the  countries  of  the  west,  Persia,  Li- 
banus,  anti-Libanus,  Carmel,  Galaad,  Galilee,  Esdraelon, 
Samaria,  etc.,  refusing  their  aid  (ver.  8-12),  conquered 
Arphaxad,  and,returned  home  to  Nineveh  in  the  seven- 
teenth year  of  his  feign  (ver.  13-1G).  The  following 
year,  determined  to  carry  out  his  resolution  to  wreak  his 
vengeance  on  those  nations  who  refused  their  aid,  he 
dispatched  his  chief  general  1 lolofernes,  at  the  head  of 
120,000  infantry  and  12,000  cavalry  (ii,  1-22),  who  soon 
subdued  Mesopotamia,  Syria,  Libya,  Cilicia,  and  ldunuea 
(ii,  23 ; iii,  8),  and  marched  on  Juda?a  (ver.  9, 10).  The 
inhabitants  of  the  sea-coast  made  a voluntary  submis- 
sion, which,  however,  did  not  prevent  their  territories 
from  being  laid  waste,  their  sacred  groves  burned,  and 
their  idols  destroyed,  in  order  that  divine  honors  should 
be  paid  only  to  Nebuchadnezzar.  Holofernes,  having 
finally  encamped  in  the  plain  of  Esdraelon  (i,  3),  re- 
mained inactive  for  a whole  month — or  two,  according 
to  the  Latin  version.  But  the  children  of  Israel,  who 
had  newly  returned  from  the  captivity,  having  heard  of 
Holofernes  s atrocities,  and  being  afraid  of  his  despoiling 
the  Temple,  determined  to  resist  the  enemy,  and  pre- 
pared for  war  under  the  direction  of  their  higli-priest 
Joachim,  or  Eiiakim,  and  the  senate.  They  at  once  took 
possession  of  the  high  mountains  and  fortified  villages 
(iv,  1-5),  whilst  the  inhabitants  of  Bethulia  and  Beto- 
mestham,  according  to  the  command  of  the  higli-priest 
Joachim,  guarded  the  passes  of  the  monntains  near  Do- 
tliaim  (ver.  G-8);  and,  having  made  all  the  necessary 
preparations,  they  held  a solemn  fast  and  prayed  to  God 
for  protection  (ver.  9-15).  Enraged,  as  well  as  aston- 
ished at  their  audacity  in  preparing  to  fight  against  him, 
Holofernes  made  inquiries  of  the  chiefs  of  Ammon  and 
Moab  who  this  people  was  (v,  1-4).  Achior,  the  leader 
of  the  Ammonites,  then  gives  him  the  history  of  the 
Jews,  and  tells  him  that  no  power  coidd  vanquish  them 
unless  they  sin  against  their  God  (ver.  5-21).  The 
proud  army,  however,  becomes  exceedingly  angry  with 
this  statement  (vi,  1-9),  and  Holofernes  orders  Achior 
to  be  thrown  into  the  Jewish  camp,  in  order  that  he 
may  be  destroyed  in  the  general  destruction  which  was 
impending  over  the  people  whom  he  described  as  in- 


JUDITII,  BOOK  OF  10S4  JUDITH,  BOOK  OF 


vincible  (ver.  10-13).  The  Jews  pick  him  up,  and  lead 
him  to  the  governor  of  Bethulia,  to  whom  he  relates 
this,  and  who  comforts  him  (ver.  14—21).  Ihe  next  day 
Ilolofernes  marches  against  Bethulia,  takes  the  moun- 
tain passes,  seizes  all  the  supplies  of  water  (vii,  1-7),  and 
Lavs  siege  to  the  city  (ver.  8-19),  which  lasts  forty  days, 
when  the  famishing  people  urge  upon  the  governor 
Ozias  to  surrender  it,  and  he  decides  to  do  so  unless  re- 
lieved within  live  days  (ver.  20-32).  The  pious  widow 
Judith,  however,  denounces  this  decision  as  tempting 
the  Almighty  (viii,  1-31),  and  conceives  a plan  for  de- 
livering the  people  (ver.  32-36).  With  this  view  she 
entreats  the  governor  and  elders  to  give  up  all  idea  of 
surrender,  and  to  permit  the  gates  of  the  city  to  he 
opened  for  her.  Having  prayed  to  the  God  of  her  fa- 
thers for  the  overthrow  of  the  enemy  (ix,  1-14),  she  ar- 
rays herself  in  rich  attire,  and,  accompanied  by  her  maid, 
who  carries  a bag  of  provision,  goes  to  the  camp  of 
Ilolofernes  (x,  1-11).  The  guards,  seeing  this  beautiful 
woman,  and  hearing  her  story,  conduct  her  to  the  gen- 
eral (ver.  12-23),  whom  she  "tells  that  the  Jews  would 
now  be  vanquished,  because  they  had  sinned  against 
God  in  eating  the  victuals  consecrated  to  the  Temple 
(xi,  1-15);  that  she  had  fled  from  the  impending  de- 
struction, and  would  show  him  the  access  to  the  city, 
only  requesting  that  she  should  he  permitted  to  go  out 
of  the  camp  to  pray  in  the  night  (ver.  16-19).  Ilolo- 
fernes,  smitten  with  her  charms,  gives  her  a sumptuous 
entertainment,  and  invites  her  to  remain  alone  with  him 
within  the  tent  that  night  (xii,  1-20).  When  heavily 
asleep  in  consequence  of  having  drunk  too  freely,  Judith 
seizes  his  falchion,  strikes  off  his  head,  gives  it  to  her 
maid  outside,  who  puts  it  in  the  bag  which  contained 
the  provisions;  they  both  leave  the  camp  as  usual  un- 
der the  pretence  of  devotion,  and  return  to  Bethulia,  dis- 
playing the  head  of  Ilolofernes,  amidst  the  rejoicings 
and  thanksgivings  of  the  people  (xiii,  1-20).  Achior, 
hearing  of  this  wonderful  deliverance,  is  at  once  con- 
verted to  Judaism,  whilst  Judith  counsels  the  Israelites 
to  surprise  the  enemy  next  morning  (xiv,  1-10),  who, 
being  panic-stricken  at  the  loss  of  their  general,  arc  soon 
discomfited,  leaving  immense  spoil  in  the  hands  of  the 
Jews  (xiv,  1 1— xv,  11).  The  women  of  Israel  then  ex- 
press their  gratitude  to  their  sister  (ver.  12-13),  whilst 
Judith  bursts  forth  in  a sublime  song  of  praise  to  the 
God  of  their  salvation  (xvi,  1-17),  whereupon  all  of  them 
go  up  to  Jerusalem  to  worship  the  Lord  with  sacrifices 
and  feastings  (ver.  18-20).  Judith  afterwards  returns  to 
her  native  place,  Bethulia,  manumits  her  maid,  and  dies 
at  the  advanced  age  of  105  years,  greatly  lamented  by  all 
the  nation,  whose  peace  no  enemy  dared  to  disturb  for  a 
long  time  (ver.  21-25).  The  Jews  enjoying  a profound 
and  happy  peace,  a yearly  festival  (according  to  the 
Vidgatc)  is  instituted  in  honor  of  the  victory. 

III.  Original  Language,  I ' ersions , Condition  of  the  Texts, 

— That  tliis  book. was  originally  written  in  Hebrew 
or  Svro-Chaldaic  is  distinctly  declared  by  St.  Jerome, 
who  says  that  “Judith  is  read  by  the  Jews  among  the 
llagiographa  . . . and,  bring  written  in  Chaldee  (Chal- 
da>o  sermoue  eonseriptus),  is  reckoned  among  the  histo- 
ries,” and  that  he  had  used  a Chaldee  codex  to  correct 
thereby  the  vitiated  readings  of  the  31 SS.  (Prof  ad 
dial.).  This  is,  moreover,  corroborated  bv  the  Bvzan- 
tino  historian  John  Malalas  (tl.  circa  A.D.  880),' who, 
having  embodied  the  contents  of  Judith  in  his  Chrono- 
graphia,  remarks,  Infra  ci  iv  rahj  'EfipaiKalQ  iptyipe- 
Tai  V><«P«k  (i, 203,  cd.( )xon.  1691).  Besides,  the  Greek 
contains  unmistakable  indications  that  it  was  made  from 
a Hebrew  or  Aramaean  original,  e.  g.  giving  the  Hebrew 
use  of  the  relative  iv  ig  cttrpififv  iv  avreg  (x,  2),  ojv  to 
ir\il$o£  aurwv  (xvi, 4),  the  literal  rendering  of  n:n“^, 
iv  ry  7r«pfji/3o,\y  (xii, 7), which  has  occasioned  so  much 
difficulty  to  interpreters,  but  which  is  easy  enough  when 
it  is  borne  in  mind  that  the  Hebrew  preposition  3 sig- 
nifies at,  by,  near ; the  raanv  Hebraisms  (i,  7, 16-  ii  5 7 
18,  23;  hi,  3, 10;  iv,  2,  G,  II,  13  ; v,  9, 12, 14,  16,’l8 ; vii’ 


15, 18;  ix,  8;  x,  7,  23;  xi,  5, 16;  xii,  13,  20;  xiv,  19), 
and  the  mistranslations  of  the  Hebrew  (i,  8;  ii,2;  iii,  1, 
9, 10;  v,  15,  18;  viii,  27;  xv,  11).  Gescnius,  and  espe- 
cially 31  overs,  have  been  very  successful  in  their  efforts 
to  correet  the  present  geographical  errors  by  the  suppo- 
sition of  a Hebrew  original.  Betani  (i,  9)  the  latter  con- 
ceives to  be  Beth-anoth  (Josh,  xv),  and  the  two  seas  (i, 
12)  the  two  arms  of  the-Nile.  For  ^aXXmW  he  reads 
XaXoatojv,  and  considers  Basses  to  be  an  oversight  for 
Tarshish.  Origen  was  therefore  misinformed  when  he  . 
■was  told  that  Judith  did  not  exist  in  the  Hebrew  (irepi 
T w/3ia  y)pd(j  ixp>iv  iyvejKevai  bn  rig  Tioj3La  ov  yowv- 
rat  ovck  ry  ’lovct&,  ovvt  yap  txovm  avrd  teat  iv  'Airo- 
Kpv<poiQ  'Efipaiarai,  ojq  an  avTtbv  paSovTtQ  iyv(I)ica- 
ptv,  Ep.  ad  Afric.,  see.  13).  The  Old  Latin  and  the 
Syriac  versions  were  made  from  the  Septuagint,  which, 
however,  does  not  represent  a fixed  Hebrew  or  Aramaean 
original  text,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  various  recen- 
sions of  it  differing  greatly  from  each  other.  Tliis  is, 
moreover,  corroborated  by  the  fact  that  the  Old  Latin, 
the  31SS.  of  which  also  deviated  greatly  from  each  oth- 
er, and  which  St.  Jerome  corrected  aeeording  to  an  Ara- 
maean codex,  differs  materially  from  the  Sept.,  some- 
times having  more  than  the  latter  (eomp.Vulg.  iv,8-15 
with  Sept,  iv,  10;  Vulg.  v,  11,  12  with  Sept,  v,  11-16; 
Vulg.  v,  26-29  with  Septnag.  v,  23-25;  Vulg.  vi,  15- 19 
with  Sept,  vi,  19;  Vulg.  vii,  18-20  with  ,Sept.  vii,  29), 
sometimes  less  (comp.  Vulg.  vii,  9 sq.,  with  Sept,  vii,  8- 
15;  Vulg.  v,  11  sq.,  with  Sept,  v,  17-22;  Vulg.  ix,  5-7, 
11  sq.,  with  Sept,  ix,  7, 10).  Sometimes  the  names  are 
different  (comp,  i,  6,  8,  9;  iv,  5 ; viii,  1),  and  sometimes 


Sept,  is  given  by  Capelins,  Commentarii  et  Xotce  Criticce 
in  V.  T.  (Amstel.  1689),  p.  574,  etc. ; and  Eichhorn,  Ein- 
leitung  in  die  aptokryphischen  Schi'iften,y.^\S,  etc.  There 
arc  also  extant  several  Hebrew'  recensions  of  Judith. 
Three  of  these  have  been  published  by  Jellinek  in  his 
Beth  IIa~Midrash,  vols.  i and  ii,  Leipzig,  1853,  and  the 
one  which  comes  nearest  to  the  Greek  and  Latin  ver- 
sions certainly  removes  all  the  difficulties  against  the 
historical  character  of  the  book  contained  in  those  ver- 
sions. They  are  called  rirunb  ir-vn:,  ir’Yirv’  rvrra 
(Beth  IT  a- Midrash,  i,  130-136),  and  (ii, 

12-22).  Other  Hebrew  editions  (rn^i"P  fiwS'E)  have 
been  published  at  Berlin  (1766, 8 vo),  Venice  (s.  a.  8vo), 
and  Frankfort-on-the-3Iain  (cd.  S.,  London,  1715, 8vo). 
Coverdale  and  the  Bishops’  Bible,  following  Luther  and 
the  Zurich  Bible,  have  translated  from  the  Vulgate, 
whilst  the  Geneva  version,  which  is  followed  by  the  A. 
V.,  has  a translation  of  the  Greek  text. 

I3T.  Historical  Character  of  the  Book. — There  are  three 
theories  about  the  nature  of  this  book : 

a.  LTp  to  the  time  of  the  Reformation,  the  viewr  that 
this  book  records  actual  history  was  universally  enter- 
tained among  Christians.  The  difference  of  opinion 
which  obtained  during  those  fifteen  centuries,  and  v'hich 
still  exists  among  the  defenders  of  its  historical  charac- 
ter, is  about  the  precise  time  when  these  events  occur- 
red, involving  as  a necessary  consequence  the  identifica- 
tion of  the  principal  characters,  etc.  The  limits  of  the 
range  of  time  v'ithin  which  they  have  alternately  been 
placed  are  B.C.  784-A.D.  117.  The  most  ancient  opin- 
ion, however,  is,  that  the  circumstances  here  described 
occurred  after  the  Babylonian  captivity,  w'hicli  is  sup- 
ported by  the  book  itself  (comp,  iv,  3;  v,  18, 19,  Sept.; 
v,  22,  23,  Vulg.).  Still,  as  it  does  not  tell  who  this  Neb- 
uchadnezzar v'as,  the  advocates  of  this  view  have  tried 
to  identify  him  with  every  Persian  monarch  in  succes- 
sion. Thus,  St.  Augustine  (Be  Cir.  Dei,  xviii,  16),  and 
others,  take  him  to  be  Cambyses;  Julius  Africanus  and 
Georgius  Syncellus  regard  him  as  Xerxes:  31ercator, 
Estius,  etc.,  make  him  to  be  Darius  Ilystaspis;  whilst 
Sulpicius  Severus  and  others  identify  him  with  Arta- 
xerxes  Ochus  (comp. Suidas,  s.  v.  Judith;  Bcllarminc, De 
Verb.  Dei,  i,  12;  Scholz,  Einleitung  in  die  Heiligen  Schrif- 


JUDITIL  BOOK  OF  1085  JUDITH.  BOOK  OF 


ten , ii,  588  sq.).  Against  this  view,  however,  is  to  be 
urged,  that,  1.  All  these  monarelis  inherited  the  prov- 
inces which  are  described  in  this  book  as  having  been 
conquered  for  them  by  Holofernes,  thus  precluding  the 
identity  of  any  one  of  them  with  Nebuchadnezzar.  2. 
Nineveh,  Avhieh  is  here  mentioned  as  the  capital  of  Neb- 
uchadnezzar’s, or  the  Assyrian  empire,  was  destroyed 
before  the  Babylonian  captivity,  and  no  Assyrian  or  Me- 
dian kingdom  existed  during  the  post-exilian  period.  3. 
The  Persians,  Syrians,  Phoenicians,  Cilicians,  and  Egyp- 
tians are  described  as  subject  to  the  Assyrians,  which 
could  not  have  been  the  ease  after  the  captivity  of  Ju- 
dah, when  the  Assyrian  empire  was  wholly  extinguish- 
ed, and  the  Persians,  instead  of  being  subject  to  the  As- 
syrians,  had  made  themselves  lords  over  them,  and  all 
the  other  nations  of  the  East,  from  the  Hellespont  to 
the  River  Indus.  4.  There  is  no  point  of  time  except 
the  Maccabasan  period  when  the  events  here  recorded 
could  possibly  have  occurred,  since  the  Jews  were  sub- 
ject to  the  Persians  for  207  years,  then  were  under  the 
dominion  of  Alexander  the  Great,  and  finally  under  the 
Ptolemies  and  the  kings  of  Syria  till  they  obtained  their 
independence  through  Judas  Maccalmis,  B.C.  164.  The 
only  time  to  which  they  could  possibly  be  referred  is 
that  of  Antioclius  Epiphanes,  but  this  supposition  is  in- 
consistent with  the  fact  that  the  Jews  had  but  recently 
returned  from  captivity,  and  restored  the  worship  of 
God  in  tlfc  Temple.  The  geographical  inconsistencies 
are  equally  embarrassing. 

To  escape  these  difficulties,  and  more  especially  to 
obtain  a point  of  time  suitable  for  these  events,  Usher, 
Lloyd,  Calmet,  Montfaucon,  Prideaux,  Whist  on,  Wolff, 
etc.,  maintain  that  they  occurred  before  the  exile,  either 
in  the  reign  of  Zedekiah,  Manassch,  Amon,  Josiali,  or 
Jehoiakim.  The  general  opinion,  however,  is,  that  the 
story  is  to  be  placed  under  Manasseh,  and,  as  Calmet, 
Montfaucon, Prideaux,  Whiston,  and  others  will  have  it, 
after  this  monarch’s  return  from  Babylon.  According 
to  them,  the  events  recorded  in  the  book  of  J udith,  and 
the  collateral  circumstances,  occurred  in  the  following 
order  of  timet 


Birth  of  Judith 3285  719 

Manasseh  begins  to  reign 3300  09S 

He  is  taken  prisoner  to  Babylon  and  sent  back 

to  Judaea 3328  676 

War  between  Nebuchadnezzar  aud  Arphaxad. . 3347  657 

Victory  of  Nebuchadnezzar  over  Arphaxad 3347  657 

Expedition  of  Holofernes  and  siege  of  Bethulia  3348  656 

Death  ofMauasseh - 3361  643 

Amou,  his  son,  begins  to  reign 3361  643 

Amon  is  murdered  for  his  wickedness 3363  641 

Josiah,  his  son,  succeeds  him,  being  eight  years 

old 3363  641 

Death  of  Judith,  aged  105  years 3390  614 

Battle  of  Megiddo  aud  death  of  King  Josiah . . . 3394  610 
The  last  siege  of  Jerusalem  by  Nebuchadnezzar  3414  590 
Destructiou'of  Jerusalem  aud  captivity  of  the 

Jews 3416  5SS 


The  Nebuchadnezzar  of  this  book  is,  according  to  this 
theory,  Saosduchinus,  who  succeeded  his  father  Esar- 
liaddon  in  the  kingdom  of  Assyria  and  Babylon  in  the 
3 1st  year  of  Manasseh’s  reign,  and  Arphaxad  is  Deioces, 
king  of  Media.  But  this  pre-exilian  view  again  incurs 
the  following  objections : 1.  It  makes  Judith  to  he  sixty- 
three  years  old  at  the  time  when  she  is  described  as  “ a 
fair  damsel”  (?)  iraiCtaKi)  r)  trnXi/)  captivating  Holofer- 
nes (xii,  13)  and  ravishing  the  hearts  of  many  who  de- 
sired to  marry  her  (xvi,  22).  Calmet,  however,  is  not 
disconcerted  by  supposing  that  Judith  might  in  this 
case  he  sixtv-three  or  sixty  years  old, ‘"being  then  what 
we  call  a fine  woman,  and  having  an  engaging  air  and" 
person,”  “likely,”  adds  Du  Pin,  “to  charm  an  old  gen- 
eral.” 2.  It  is  absolutely  inconsistent  with  chap,  xvi, 
23,  where  we  are  expressly  told  that  “there  was  none 
that  made  the  children  of  Israel  afraid  in  the  days  of 
Judith,  nor  a long  time  after  her  death.”  For  even  if 
we  take  the  words  “ a long  time  after  her  death”  to 
mean  no  more  than  twenty  years,  this  would  bring  J u- 
dith’s  death  to  twenty  years  before  the  disastrous  bat- 
tle of  Megiddo,  wherein  Josiah  was  mortally  wounded, 


whereas  this  hypothesis  places  her  death  only  four  years 
before  that  calamitous  event.  This  inconsistency  is  still 
more  glaring  according  to  the  calculations  of  Prideaux, 
who  maintains  that  Judith  could  not  have  been  more 
than  forty-five  years  of  age  when  she  captivated  Holo- 
fernes, as  this  carries  down  her  death  to  the  4th  year 
of  Zedekiah,  when  the  state  of  the  Jews  had  been  ex- 
ceedingly disturbed  for  several  years  by  the  Babyloni- 
ans, and  actually  brings  the  period  involved  in  the  “long 
time  after  her  death”  beyond  the  total  subversion  of  the 
Jewish  state.  3.  Judith  affirms  that  there  was  no  Jew 
to  be  found  in  any  city  who  worshipped  idolatry  (viii, 
17. 18),  which  is  incompatible  with  the  reign  of  Manas- 
seh, Amon,  and  the  first  eight  years  of  Josiah  (comp.  2 
Chron.  xxxiii,  14-17).  4.  Holofernes,  the  chief  officer 

of  the  Assyrian  army,  who  had  only  recently  invaded 
Judaea  and  taken  Manasseh  prisoner,  must  surely  have 
known  something  about  the  Jews,  yet  he  is  described  as 
being  utterly  ignorant  of  the  very  name  of  this  Jewish 
monarch,  as  not  knowing  the  people  and  the  city  of  Je- 
rusalem, and  being  obliged  to  ask  for  some  information 
about  them  from  the  Amoritish  chief  (v,  1-3).  5.  The 

Jewish  state  is  represented  as  being  under  the  govern- 
ment of  a liigh-priest  and  a kind  of  Sanhedrim  (vi,  6- 
14,  xv,  8),  which  is  only  compatible  with  the  post-exilian 
period,  when  the  Jews  had  no  king.  6.  The  book  itself 
distinctly  tells  us  in  chap.iv,  3,  and  v,  18,  that  the  events 
transpired  after  the  captivity,  as  is  rightly  interpreted 
by  the  compilers  of  the  marginal  references  of  the  A.V., 
who,  on  this  passage,  refer  to  2 Kings  xxv,  9-11,  and 
Ezra  i,  1-3. 

b.  The  difficulty  of  taking  the  book  to  record  either 
pre-exilian  or  post-exilian  history  made  Luther  view  it 
as  “ a religious  fiction  or  poem,  written  by  a holy  and 
ingenious  man,  who  depicts  therein  the  victory  of  tlio 
Jewish  people  over  all  their  enemies,  which  God  at  all 
times  most  wonderfully  vouchsafes.  . . . Judith  is  the 
Jewish  people,  represented  as  a chaste  and  holy  widow, 
which  is  always  the  character  of  God’s  people.  Holo- 
fernes is  the  heathen,  the  godless  or  unchristian  lord  of 
all  ages,  while  the  city  of  Bethulia  denotes  a virgin,  in- 
dicating that  the  believing  Jews  of  those  days  were  the 
pure  virgins”  (Yorrede  aufs  Buck  Judith ).  Some  of 
the  names  can  scarcely  have  been  chosen  without  regard 
to  their  derivation  (e.  g.  Achior  — Brother  of  Light ; Be- 
thnlia  = n"Cir'.  the  virgin  of  Jehovah),  and  the  his- 
torical difficulties  of  the  person  of  Nebuchadnezzar  dis- 
appear when  he  is  regarded  as  the  scriptural  type  of 
worldly  power.  Grotius,  elaborating  upon  this  idea, 
regards  it  as  a parabolic  description  of  Antioclius  Epiph- 
anes’s  assault  on  Judaea — “Judith  is  the  Jewish  people 
(rmiSY') ; Bethulia  is  the  Temple  (J-pbx  Y'Z) , the 
sword  which  went  out  of  it,  the  prayers  of  the  saints; 
Nebuchadnezzar  signifies  the  devil;  Assyria  is  pride,  the 
devil's  Kingdom;  Holofernes  is  the  devil's  instrument; 
(wH]  “sbn,  lictor  serpentis,  minister  diaboli );  the  wid- 
ow is  the  helplessness  of  the  Jewish  people  under  the  tyr- 
anny of  Antioclius  Epiphanes;  Joachim  or  Eliakim  sig- 
nifies God  will  arise  (E*p  f!*rP  or  Op*1  >X)  to  defend 
Judaea  and  cut  oil' the  instrument  of  the  devil  who  would 
have  her  corrupted.”  Many  of  the  modern  writers  who 
regard  it  as  containing  pure  fiction  call  it  either  drama 
(Buddeus),  epopee  (Artropams,  Moreus,  Yon  Niebuhr, 
etc.'),  apologue  (Babor),  didactic  poem  (Jab o'),  moral 
fiction  (Bauer),  or  romance  (Borthold).  Among  the 
Roman  Catholics  this  notion  of  an  allegory  is  favored 
by  Jahn,  who  maintains  that  the  difficulties  are  other- 
wise insuperable.  De  Wette,  however,  considers  that 
the  fact  of  Holofernes  being  a historical  name  (together 
with  other  reasons)  militates  against  the  notion  of  an 
allegory,  as  maintained  by  Grotius.  The  name  Holo- 
fernes is  found  in  Appian  (hi  Syriac,  e.  47)  and  in  Po- 
lybius (x,  11).  The  latter  historian  states'  that  Holo- 
fernes, having  conquered  Cappadocia,  lost  it  by  endeav- 
oring to  change  the  customs  of  the  country,  and  to 
introduce  the  drunken  rites  of  Bacchus ; and  Casaubon 


JUDITH,  BOOK  OF  1086  JUDITH,  BOOK  OF 


(ad  Athen.')  conjectures  that  this  was  the  Holofernes  of 
Judith.  From  its  termination  the  name  is  supposed  to 
be  of  Persian  extraction  (compare  Orophernes,  Polybius, 
xxxiii,  12),  as  Tisaphernes,  Artaphcrncs,  etc. 

c.  As  the  book  itself,  however,  gives  no  intimation 
whatever  that  it  is  a fiction  or  an  allegory,  but,  on  the 
contrary,  purports  to  be  real  history,  as  is  evident  from 
its  minute  geographical  (i,  7 ; ii,  21  sq.;  iii,  9 sq. ; iv,  4, 
G sq.),  historical  (i,  5 sq.),  and  chronological  (i,  13,  1G ; 
viii,  4;  xvi,  23)  descriptions,  Gutmann,  Ilerzfeld,  Keil, 
and  others  take  it  to  contain  a substance  of  truth  em- 
bellished with  fiction.  This  view  is  supported  by  the 
following  facts:  1.  Notwithstanding  the  arbitrary  and 
uncritical  manner  in  which  the  deutero-canonical  his- 
torians dispose  of  their  materials,  they  have  always  a 
certain  amount  of  truth,  around  which  they  cluster  the 
traditional  embellishments.  2.  A summary  of  the  con- 
tents of  Judith  is  given  in  the  ancient  Jewish  prayers 
for  the  first  and  second  Sabbaths  of  the  Feast  of  Dedica- 
tion— beginning  with  " “'E  TSIX  “C  “YIN  and 

'|"X — among  the  events  which  occurred 
in  the  times  of  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  and  it  cannot  be 
supposed  that  the  Jews  would  make  it  the  basis  of 
thanksgiving  when  the  deliverance  was  never  wrought, 
and  the  whole  of  it  was  nothing  but  a fiction.  3.  There 
are  ancient  Midrashim  which  record  the  facts  indepen- 
dently of  the  book  of  Judith.  There  is  one,  in  particu- 
lar, which  gives  a better  recension  of  this  book  than 
either  the  Septuagint  or  the  Vulgate,  bears  as  much  re- 
semblance to  the  Septuagint  and  Vulgate  as  these  two 
versions  bear  to  each  other,  and  removes  many  of  the  dif- 
ficulties against  its  historical  truthfulness,  inasmuch  as 
it  begins  with  ch.  v,  5,  and  thus  shows  that  the  Septua- 
gint, from  which  the  other  versions  were  made,  has  put 
together  two  different  records. 

Those,  however,  who  understand  the  book  to  be  an 
allegorical  representation  of  the  Jewish  people,  widowed 
as  to  earthly  resources,  yet,  by  favor  with  God  and  man, 
prevailing  over  the  powers  of  the  world,  do  not  thus  re- 
lieve the  fable  from  grave  moral  objections.  An  intel- 
ligent Jew,  well  read  in  the  Hebrew  Scriptures,  could 
not  have  thought  of  setting  up  Judith  as  a proper 
embodiment  of  female  heroism  and  virtue.  Her  plan 
of  procedure  is  marred  throughout  by  hypocrisy  and 
deceit ; she  even  prays  to  God  that  he  would  prosper 
her  deceit  (ix,  12),  and  praises  the  cruelty  of  Simeon  in 
slaying  the  Shechemitcs,  as  if  his  deed  bore  on  it  the 
sanction  of  heaven,  though  Jacob,  the  father  of  Simeon, 
had  consigned  it  in  the  name  of  God  to  eternal  reproba- 
tion. The  spirit  of  vengeance,  resolute  in  its  aim,  un- 
scrupulous in  the  means  taken  to  accomplish  it,  is  the 
pervading  animus  of  the  story — a spirit  certainly  op- 
posed to  the  general  teaching  of  Old  as  well  as  New 
Testament  Scripture,  and  incapable  of  being  embodied 
in  a heroic  story  except  bv  one  who  had  much  more 
regard  for  the  political  than  the  moral  and  religious  el- 
ements in  Judaism. 

\ -1  <dhor  and  Date, — The  difference  of  opinion  upon 
this  subject  is  as  great  as  it  is  upon  the  character  of  the 
book.  It  is  not  named  either  by  Philo  or  Josephus; 
nor  have  we  any  indication  whatever  by  which  to  form 
a conjecture  respecting  its  author.  Put  it  has  been 
supposed  by  some  that  it  could  not  have  been  written 
by  a contemporary,  front  the  circumstance  of  the  family 
of  Aehior  being  mentioned  as  still  in  existence,  and  of 
the  festival  of  Judith  being  still  celebrated.  If  this  fes- 
ti\al  ever  took  place,  it  must  have  been  of  temporary 
duration,  for,  as  Calmet  observes,  no  record  of  it  can  be 
traced  since  the  exile.  Professor  Albor,  of  Perth,  how- 
ever, maintains  that  it  is  still  recorded  in  the  Jewish 
calendars.  Jahn,  after  Grotius,  refers  the  date  of  the 
book  to  the  Maccabican  period,  and  derives  an  argument 
for  its  late  composition  from  the  fact  of  the  feast  of  the 
New  Moon  being  mentioned  (viii,  (I,  comp,  with  Mark 
xv,  42).  De  Wette  ( Einleitiing ) conceives  that  the 
whole  composition  bespeaks  an  author  who  was  a na- 
tive of  Palestine,  who  could  not  have  lived  beyond  the 


end  of  the  1st  century  of  the  Christian  sera  (the  date 
assigned  to  it  by  Eichhorn),  inasmuch  as  it  is  then  cited 
by  Clement  of  Rome,  but  that  the  probability  is  that  it 
was  much  earlier  written.  Movers,  a Roman  Catholic 
professor  at  Bonn,  a man  of  great  penetration  in  similar 
investigations  respecting  the  canonical  books  of  the*  Old 
Testament,  endeavors  to  fix  the  date  of  its  composition 
in  the  year  B.C.  104.  “The  author,”  he  observes,  “who 
has  transferred  the  geographical  relations  of  his  own 
time  to  a former  period  [see,  however,  Foster,  Geogra- 
phy of  A rabia,  1844,  i,  185],  makes  the  Jewish  territory 
commence  at  Scythopolis  (iii,  10),  and  makes  Betliulia, 
against  which  Holofernes  directed  his  attack,  the  first 
Jewish  city  at  the  entrance  into  Judaea  (iv,  7),  reckon- 
ing the  territory  intervening  between  this  and  Sama- 
ria as  tributary  to  the  Jewish  high-priest.  This  state 
of  affairs  continued  from  the  time  of  John  Hvrcanus 
to  Pompev’s  invasion  of  Judaea.  Hvrcanus  had  seized 
upon  Samaria,  and  wrested  Scythopolis,  with  the  sur- 
rounding territory,  from  Epicrates,  the  general  of  Ptol- 
emy Lathurus  (Josephus,  Ant.  xiii,  10,  3),  B.C.  110,  ac- 
cording to  Usher.  But  Samaria  and  Scythopolis,  with 
other  acquisitions  of  the  Maccabees,  were  lost  forever  to 
the  Jewish  nation  when  Pompey,  B.C.  48,  reduced  Ju- 
daea to  its  ancient  limits.  The  sea-coast  (iii,  1),  inde- 
pendent of  the  Jews,  continued,  since  the  last  years  of 
the  reign  of  Alexander  Jannaeus,  to  be  a Jewish  posses- 
sion ; but  ('arm cl,  which  (i,  8)  was  inhabitAl  by  the 
Gentiles,  was  still  independent  in  the  beginning  of  his 
reign,  and  he  first  seized  it  after  the  war  with  Ptolemy 
Lathyrus  (xiii,  15,  4).”  It  is  to  this  yvar  that  Movers 
considers  the  book  of  Judith  to  refer,  and  he  supposes  it 
to  have  been  written  after  the  unfortunate  battle  at 
Asocliis,  in  Galilee  (or,  rather,  Asophen  on  the  Jordan) 
(Movers,  Ueber  die  Ursprache  der  Deuterolcun.  Bucher , 
in  the  Bonner  Zeitschrift,  xiii,  36  sq.).  De  Wette  con- 
ceives that  this  hypothesis  is  opposed  by  the  following 
geographical  combinations:  1.  Galilee  belonged  to  the 
Asrnoimeans,  the  proof  of  which,  indeed,  is  by  **4Jieans 
certain,  while  the  following  indications  thereof^} Present 
themselves:  (a)  Asochis  seems  to  have  belonged  to  Al- 
exander Janmens,  as  it  received  Ptolemy  Lathyrus  (Jo- 
sephus, A nt.  xiii,  12, 4,  comp,  with  xv,  4).  ( b ) Hvrcanus 

had  his  son  Alexander  Janmeus  brought  up  in  Galilee 
(xiii,  12, 1).  (c)  Antigonus  returned  from  Galilee  ( War, 
i,  3,  3).  ((/)  Aristobulus  seized  upon  Itursea  (Ant.  xiii, 

11,  3),  which  presupposes  the  possession  of  Galilee,  (e) 
Even  after  the  limits  of  Galilee  were  circumscribed  by 
Pompey,  it  still  belonged  to  the  Jewish  high-priest 
(lFnr,i,  10,4).  2.  Idtumea  belonged  to  the  Jewish  state, 
but  the  sons  of  Esau  came  to  Holofernes  (vii,  8, 18).  3. 
If  the  author  had  the  war  with  Ptolemy  Lathyrus  in 
view,  the  irruption  of  Holofernes  would  rather  corre- 
spond with  the  movements  of  the  Cyprian  army,  which 
proceeded  from  Asochis  to  Sepphoris,  and  thence  to 
Asophen  (Einleitavg,  § 307). 

Wolff  and  others  ascribe  the  authorship  to  Aehior, 
B.C.  636-C29;  Huetius  (in  Preep.  Evany,  p.  217),  Cal- 
met (Dissert.  Preelim.  p.  142),  etc.,  to  Joshua,  the  son  of 
Joscdech,  the  companion  of  Zerubbabel,  B.C.  536-515; 
St.  Jerome,  etc.,  to  Judith  herself;  Ewald,  Vailiinger,  etc., 
to  the  time  of  John  Hvrcanus,  B.C.  130-128;  Yolkmar, 
who  takes  it  to  be  an  allegorical  description  of  the  vic- 
tory of  the  Parthians  and  Jews  over  Quietus,  the  dele- 
gate of  Trajan,  maintains  (originally  in  the  Theol.  Jahr- 
buch,  1856,  p.  362 ; and  1857,  p.  448  sq. ; afterwards  in 
Ilandb.  d.  Einl.  in  d.  .1  pokr.  Tub.  18C0)  that  it  was  writ- 
ten for  the  twelfth  of  Adar,  A.D.  117-118,  to  commemo- 
rate this  day  (C‘I"n~lE  E“P).  He  makes  Nebuchad- 
nezzar stand  for  Trajan,  Nineveh  for  Antioch,  Assyria 
for  Syria,  Arphaxad  for  the  Parthians,  Ecbatana  for 
Nisibis,  Holofernes  for  Lucius  Quietus,  and  Judith  for 
Judaea.  This  explanation  assumes  the  spuriousness  of 
the  reference  in  the  First  Epistle  of  Clement  (§  6), 
which  is  too  early  for  the  date  assigned.  It  has  been 
adopted  by  Baur,  Ilitzig  (in  Hilgenfeld’s  Zeitschr.  18C0, 
p.  240  sq.),  and  Schenkel;  but  it  is  opposed  by  Hilgen- 


JUDSCXN' 


108V 


JUDSOX 


fold  (ibid.  1858,  p.  270  sq. ; 1861,  p. 335  sq.),  Lipsius  (ibid. 
1859,  p.  39),  and  Ewald. 

The  fact,  however,  that  there  are  several  records  or 
recensions  of  the  events  contained  in  the  book  of  Judith 
proceeding  from  different  authors,  and  deviating  mate- 
rially from  each  other,  precludes  the  possibility  of  as- 
certaining whose  productions  they  are.  All  that  can 
be  said  with  certainty  is  that  they  all  emanated  from  a 
Palestinian  source.  As  the  circumstances  recorded  are 
most  plainly  declared  by  the  more  trustworthy  Hebrew 
copies,  and  in  the  Jewish  praj’ers,  to  have  occurred  in 
the  Maccabajan  struggles  for  independence  (circa  B.C. 
170-160),  the  first  and  shortest  record  of  them  which 
was  used  for  liturgical  purposes  must  be  contemporary 
with  the  events  themselves.  The  poetical  genius  of  the 
nation,  however,  soon  embellished  the  facts  in  various 
ways,  and  hence  the  different  recensions.  The  Greek 
version  contained  in  the  Septuagint  must  have  been 
made  at  a much  later  period,  since  the  author  of  it  was 
already  ignorant  of  the  time  when  these  circumstances 
occurred,  and,  as  we  have  seen,  mixed  up  two  totally 
different  records  narrating  events  of  different  periods  of 
the  Jewish  history. 

YI.  Canonicity  of  the  Book. — Though  the  events  re- 
corded in  Judith  are  incorporated  in  the  hymnal  service 
of  the  Jews  called  ni’121'1,  yet  the  book  itself  was  never 
in  the  Jewish  canon.  The  distinction,  however,  which 
the  Jewish  synagogue  kept  up  between  treating  the  j 
book  with  respect  and  putting  it  into  the  canon  could 
not  be  preserved  in  the  Christian  Church.  Hence  Ju- 
dith, which  was  at  first  quoted  with  approbation  by 
Clemens  Iiomanus  (Bp.  c.  55),  was  gradually  cited  on  an 
equality  with  other  Scripture  by  Clemens  Alexandrinus 
(Strom.  iv),  Tertullian  (Be  Monog.  c.  17),  Ambrose  (De 
Offi.  Minist.  iii,  13),  and  Angnstine  (De  Doctnna  Chris- 
tiana, ii,  8),  and  finally  was  canonized,  in  the  councils 
of  Carthage,  by  Innocent  I of  Home,  under  Gclasius,  and 
of  Trent.  Some  will  have  it  that  this  book  is  quoted  in 
the  N.  T.  (comp.  Judith  viii,  4 sq.,  with  I Cor.  ii,  10  sq. ; 
Judith  ix,  12  with  Acts  iv,  24;  Judith  xvi,  17  with  Matt, 
xii,  42,  50).  Judith,  with  the  other  deutero-canonical 
books,  has  been  at  all  times  read  in  the  Church,  and  les- 
sons are  taken  from  it  in  the  Church  of  England  in 
course. 

VII.  Literature. — The  three  Midrashim  in  Jellinek’s 
Beth  If  a- Midrash,  vols.  i and  ii  (Leipzig,  1853);  Mont- 
faucon.  La  Ye  rite  de  Vllistoire  de  Judith  (Paris,  1690); 
Hartmann,  Utrum  Juditha  continent  historiam  (Regiom. 
1671);  De  Bonacasa  .Juditha  feta  (Yeron.  1614) ; Arto- 
poeus,  Juditha  Epopaia  (Strasb.  1694) ; Capelins,  Com- 
ment. et  Xotce  Crit.  in  ) ’.  T.  p.  459;  Arnald,  The  Apocry- 
pha, in  Patrick,  Lowtli,  and  Whitby’s  Comment. ; Du 
Pin,  History  o f the  Canon  (Lond.  1699),  i,  10  sq.,  90  sq. ; 
Eichhorn,  Binleitung  in  die  Apocryphischen  Schriften  des 
Alten  Testaments  (Leipzig,  1795),  p.  291  sq. ; Prideaux, 
The  Old  and  Xew  Testaments  connected  (ed.  1815),  i,  60 
sq. ; Whiston,  Sacred  History  of  the  Old  and  Xew  Tes- 
tament, i,  202 ; Keuss,  in  Ersch  und  Gruber’s  Kncyklopa- 
die,  sec.  ii,  vol.  xxviii.  p.  98  sq. ; Fritzsclie,  Kurzgefisstes 
exegetisches  Ilandbuch  zu  den  Apokryphen  des  A It.  Test. 
(Lpzg.  1853),  ii,  113  sq. ; Journal  of  Sacred  literature, 
1856,  p.  342  sq. ; 1861,  p.  421  sq. ; Yaihinger,  in  Herzog, 
Real-Bncyklopddie,  vii,  135  sq. ; Keil,  Binleitung  in  d.  .1. 
T.  (ed.  1859),  p.  698;  Diestel,  in  the  Jahrb.f.  d.  Theol. 
1862,  p.  781  sq. ; Lipsius,  in  Hilgenfeld’s  Zeitschr . 1867, 
p.  337  sq. 

Express  commentaries  on  this  book  alone  have  been 
written  by  Jo3. Conzio,  r"“l"rP  “"'L*  (Asti,  1628, 16mo); 
Jell.  Low  ben-Seeb,  (Yienna,  1799,  1819, 

8vo);  Frlinkel,  r.*T?rP  (Lpzg.  1830,  8vo) ; Is.  Sieben- 
berger,  DSS'a  (Warsaw,  1840,  8vo) ; Yolkmar, 

Das  Buch  Judith  (Tubing.  1860, 8vo) ; Wolff,  Das  Buck 
Judith  (Leipzig,  1861,  8vo).  See  Apocrypha. 

Judson,  Adoniram,  the  senior  Baptist  mission- 
ary to  Burmah,  was  born  in  Malden,  Mass.,  Aug.9, 1788. 


He  was  the  eldest  son  of  Adoniram  and  Abigail  Judson. 
Before  he  was  ten  years  of  age  he  had  acquired  a repu- 
tation as  a superior  student,  and  in  1807  graduated  with 
the  highest  honors  from  Providence  College  (now  Brown 
University), being  not  yet  twenty  years  old.  For  a short 
period  subsequently  lie  was  unsettled  in  his  religious 
belief,  but,  aroused  by  the  death  of  an  old  classmate  un- 
der peculiar  circumstances,  he  became  an  earnest  inquirer 
after  the  truth,  and,  though  not  a Christian,  was  admit- 
ted as  a “special  student”  in  the  divinity  school  of  An- 
dover, and  wlqle  there  was  converted,  and  joined  the 
Congregational  Church.  In  1809  he  declined  a tutor- 
ship in  Brown  University,  and  in  February,  1810,  formed 
the  resolution  of  becoming  a missionary  to  the  heathen. 
Several  young  men  joined  the  seminary  at  this  time 
who  had  also  been  for  some  time  impressed  with  the 
need  of  missions  to  unchristian  peoples.  Judson  became 
intimately  associated  with  them,  and  their  zeal  finally 
led  them  to  press  this  object  on  the  attention  of  the 
American  churches,  and,  though  not  properly  the  cause, 
they  were  the  occasion  of  the  formation  of  the  American 
Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  who  sent 
Mr.  Judson  to  England  to  confer  with  the  London  Mis- 
sionary Society  as  to  the  practicability  of  an  affiliation 
between  the  societies  and  their  joint  operation  in  “ for- 
eign parts.”  Mr.  Judson  left  America  on  this  errand 
January  1,  1811,  but  on  the  way  was  captured  by  a 
privateering  vessel,  carried  to  France,  and  did  not 
reach  London  till  April  6,  1811.  His  mission  failed  in 
its  primary  object,  but  was  of  advantage  to  the  cause  of 
missions  in  America,  for  the  American  Board  resolved 
to  assume  the  responsibility  of  sending  out  its  own  mis- 
sionaries. Mr.  Judson,  after  marrying  Ann  Hasseltine, 
Feb.  5,  1812,  embarked  for  India  on  the  19tli  of  the 
same  month,  under  the  auspices  of  this  new  organiza- 
tion. Changing  his  views  of  baptism  on  the  voyage, 
almost  immediately  after  his  arrival  he  sought  immer- 
sion at  the  hands  of  Dr.  Carey,  the  Baptist  missionary  at 
Serampore.  The  Baptists  in  America  were  already  pos- 
sessed of  considerable  missionary  zeal  and  intelligence, 
and,  on  learning  of  Dr.  Judson ’s  change  of  view,  were 
roused  to  intense  earnestness,  and  in  1814  they  organ- 
ized a denominational  missionary  society,  and  took  Dr. 
Judson  under  their  patronage.  The  hostility  of  the 
East  India  Company  towards  missionaries  was  at  that 
time  so  intense,  that  within  ten  days  after  Judson’s  ar- 
rival in  India  he  was  peremptorily  ordered  to  leave  the 
country,  and,  being  forced  to  comply,  he  took  passage 
in  a vessel  for  the  Isle  of  France,  Nov.  30,  1812.  He 
subsequently  returned  to  Madras,  but,  finding  the  East 
India  Company  uncompromising  in  their  opposition,  he 
departed  for  Burmah,  and  reached  Rangoon  July  13, 
1813,  Accepting  Burmah  as  his  mission-field,  Mr.  Jud- 
son addressed  himself  to  the  task  of  acquiring  the  lan- 
guage of  that  country,  and  not  only  attained  to  the 
greatest  familiarity  with  it,  but  spoke  and  wrote  it  with 
“ the  elegance  of  a cultured  scholar.”  At  an  early  pe- 
riod in  these  pursuits  he  published  some  “ Grammatical 
Notices”  of  the  language,  which  in  a few  short  pages 
(only  twenty-six)  furnish  “ a most  complete  grammar 
of  this  difficult  tongue.”  In  imitation  of  the  Burmese 
rest-houses  attached  to  their  pagodas  for'the  accommo- 
dation of  pilgrims  and  worshippers,  Mr.  Judson  insti- 
tuted a Zyat  in  the  public  street  for  the  reception  of  and 
conversation  with  inquirers  about  Christianity.  This 
was  ever  a notable  feature  of  his  ministry,  as  he  spent 
whole  days  thus  with  the  people.  Meeting  with  some 
success  among  the  people,  lie  resolved  to  go  to  Ava,  the 
capital,  and  “lay  his  missionary  designs  before  the 
throne,  and  solicit  toleration  for  the  Christian  religion.” 
His  efforts  were  ineffectual,  and  he  returned  to  Rangoon, 
and  made  a short  trip  to  Calcutta  for  the  recovery  of 
Mrs.  Judson’s  health.  On  July  20,  1822,  Dr.  Price,  a 
newly-arrived  missionary  physician,  was  summoned  to 
attend  on  the  king  at  Ava.  and  Mr.  Judson  was  compelled 
to  accompany  him  as  interpreter.  While  at  Ava  Mr. 
Judson  became  known  as  the  “Religion  propagating 


JUEL 


1088 


JUDSOX 

teacher,”  and,  as  his  missionary  prospects  seemed  favora- 
ble, though  he  went  to  Rangoon  temporarily,  he  returned 
to  Ava  to  prosecute  his  work.  War  breaking  out  be- 
tween the  P.ritish-Iudia  and  the  Burmese  governments, 
all  the  foreigners  at  Ava  came  under  suspicion  as  spies, 
and  Mr.  Judson,  with  others,  was  imprisoned.  The  hor- 
rible experiences  of  that  incarceration  cannot  readily 
be  described.  On  March  25,  1820,  Mr.  Judson  himself 
wrote,  “ Through  the  kind  interposition  of  our  heavenly 
Father,  our  lives  have  been  preserved  in  the  most  immi- 
nent danger  from  the  hand  of  the  executioner,  and  in 
repeated  instances  of  most  alarming  illness  during  my 
protracted  imprisonment  of  one  year  and  five  months ; 
nine  months  in  three  pairs  of  fetters,  two  months  in  five, 
six  months  in  one,  and  two  months  a prisoner  at  large.” 
After  his  release  he  rendered  most  important  service  to 
the  British  government  in  the  formation  of  the  treaty 
at  Yandabo,  and  later  in  a commercial  treaty.  While 
absent  with  the  government  embassy  as  interpreter,  his 
first  wife,  one  of  the  noblest  of  women,  died.  Sir.  Jud- 
son shortly  after  (1827)  returned  from  Ava  and  settled 
at  Amherst,  but  subsequently  removed  to  Maulmain,  as 
events  had  made  it  a much  more  important  post.  From 
this  time  to  1834  he  was  variously  employed  in  his 
mission-work  at  Maulmain,  Rangoon,  Prome,  and  other 
places,  and  became  interested  in  the  Karens  (q.  v.), 
among  whom  he  made  several  missionary  tours.  In 
1834  lie  married  Mrs.  Sarah  Boardman,  and  completed 
his  translation  of  the  whole  Bible  into  Burmese,  in  the 
revising  and  perfecting  of  which,  however,  he  spent  six- 
teen years  more.  This  was  the  great  work  of  his  life, 
and  “ the  best  judges  venture  to  hazard  the  opinion  that 
three  centuries  hence  Judson’s  Bible  will  be  the  Bible  of 
the  Christian  Church  of  Bnrmah”  ( Calcutta  Review, 
xiv,  434).  lie  also  compiled  a short  Burmese  and  Eng- 
lish dictionary.  With  a larger  work  of  this  kind  he 
was  occupied  at  the  time  of  his  death.  In  1839-40  his 
health  failed,  and  he  was  obliged  to  take  several  voy- 
ages for  its  recovery.  In  1845,  in  consequence  of  the 
failing  health  of  Mrs.  Judson,  he  left  for  America.  Mrs. 
Judson  died  at  St.  Helena,  and  Air.  Judson,  continuing 
his  voyage,  reached  Boston  on  October  15.  He  was  re- 
ceived in  America  “with  affectionate  and  enthusiastic 
veneration  that  knew  no  bounds.  His  eminent  position 
as  the  founder  and  pioneer  of  the  mission;  his  long  and 
successful  labors  in  the  East;  his  romantic  and  eventful 
life,  associated  with  all  that  is  most  beautiful  and  lofty 
in  human  nature;  his  world-wide  fame,  and  his  recent 
afflictions,  encircled  him  in  the  people’s  mind  with  the 
halo  of  an  apostle.”  But  Mr.  Judson’s  heart  was  in 
Burmah.  After  marrying  Miss  Emily  Chubbuck  in 
June,  181G,  he  again  set  sail  for  India,  and  arrived  at 
l»an goon  on  Nov.  30  of  that  year.  His  health,  however, 
again  declined,  and  he  was  obliged  once  more  to  resort 
to  the  sea  for  relief,  but  died  on  his  way  to  the  Isle  of 
Bourbon,  April  12, 1850,  and  was  buried  at  sea.  (J.  T.  G.) 

Judson,  Ann  Hasseltine,  was  born  at  Brad- 
ford, Mass.,  Oct.  22,  1789.  She  was  married  to  Adoni- 
ram  Judson  on  leb.  5,  1812,  and  was  the  first  American 
woman  to  devote  herself  to  foreign  mission  service. 
She  became  “intimately  associated  with  her  husband 
in  all  bis  plans  of  benevolence,  and  bore  an  important 
part  in  their  accomplishment”  (Wavland’s  Judson,  i,  414). 
In  1824.  in  consequence  of  protracted  ill  health,  leaving 
her  husband  in  Burmah,  she  proceeded  alone  to  Amer- 
ica, where  she  remained,  adding,  however,  much  to  the 
interest  and  advancement  of  missions  by  the  publication 
of  a very  interesting  account  of  the  history  of  the  Bur- 
man  Mission  in  a series  of  letters  to  Mr.' Buttcnvorth, 
a member  of  Parliament,  whose  hospitality  she  enjoyed 
while  in  England,  till  1823,  when  she  rejoined  her  hus- 
band at  Rangoon,  and  proceeded  with  him  to  Ava.  It 
was  during  the  trying  scenes  of  the  succeeding  two 
years  that  her  “ devoted  love,  consummate  tact,  and  he- 
roic resolution  were  so  manifest.  Her  whole  time,  with 
the  exception  of  twenty  days  when  she  was  confined  by 
the  birth  of  her  child,  was  devoted  to  the  alleviation  of 


the  sorrows  of  her  husband  and  his  fellow-prisopers.” 
She  was  perfectly  familiar  with  the  Burmese  language, 
and  possessed  of  a “presence  which  commanded  respect 
even  from  savage  barbarians,  and  encircled  her  with  a 
moral  atmosphere  in  which  she  walked  unharmed  in  the 
midst  of  a hostile  city  with  no  earthly  protector”  (Wav- 
land,  i,  329).  Her  influence  was  acknowledged  as  con- 
tributing largely  to  the  submission  to  the  English  terms 
of  peace  by  the  Burmese  government.  She  died  at 
Amherst  on  Oet.  24,  1826,  during  the  absence  of  her 
husband,  of  disease  which  her  sufferings  and  prostration 
at  Ava  had  rendered  her  constitution  incapable  of  resist- 
ing. “ To  great  clearness  of  intellect,  large  powers  of 
comprehension,  and  intuitive  female  sagacity,  ripened 
by  the  constant  necessity  of  independent  action,  she 
added  that  heroic  disinterestedness  which  naturally  loses 
all  consciousness  of  self  in  the  prosecution  of  a great  ob- 
ject. These  elements  were,  however,  all  held  in  reserve, 
and  were  hidden  from  public  view  by  a veil  of  unusual 
feminine  delicacy.”  (J.  T.  G.) 

Judson,  Sarah  Boardman,  was  born  in  Al- 
stead,  N.  H.,  Nov.  4,  1803.  She  was  the  daughter  of 
Ralph  and  Abia  Hull,  and  was  married  to  the  Rev. 
George  D.  Boardman  in  1825,  with  whom  she  proceeded 
to  Tavoy,  Burmah,  and  in  his  missionary  work  shared 
great  dangers  and  sufferings.  Her  husband  died  in 
1831.  Two  of  her  children  had  previously  died,  and 
with  one  child,  a son,  left  to  her,  she  continued  to  prose- 
cute her  missionary  work.  In  1834  she  married  Dr. 
Judson,  and  in  1845,  in  consequence  of  failing  health, 
she  left  Burmah  for  America,  accompanied  by  her  lius- 
oand.  On  their  arrival  at  St.  Helena  Mrs.  Judson  died, 
Sept.  3, 1845.  She  translated  the  New  Testament  and 
Burmese  tracts  into  Peguan,  and  Pilgrim's  Progress 
into  Burmese.  Of  her  a writer  in  the  Calcutta  Review 
says  (vol.  xiv),  “ Exquisite  sensibility,  a poet’s  soul  and 
imagination,  great  natural  abilities,  thorough  unselfish- 
ness, and  a woman's  depth  of  love  and  affection,  all 
shrouded  by  the  most  unpretending  meekness  and  de- 
votion, were  some  of  the  elements  which  blended  to- 
gether to  form  a character  of  extreme  beauty.”  Her 
poem  commencing  “We  part  on  this  green  islet, love,” 
etc.,  is  enough  to  entitle  her  to  high  praise  as  a poet. 
(J.  T.  G.) 

Judson,  Emily  Chubbuck,  wife  of  Dr.  Adoni- 
ram  Judson,  was  born  in  Eaton,  New  York,  in  1818.  She 
contributed  to  the  magazine  literature  of  the  country  in 
early  life  under  the  assumed  title  of  “Fanny  Forester.” 
She  had  contemplated  becoming  a missionary  from  early 
life,  and  marrying  Dr.  Judson  June  2,  1846,  she  sailed 
with  him  from  Boston  for  India,  where  she  “employed 
all  her  strength  in  advancing  the  holy  cause  in  which 
he  was  engaged.”  After  his  decease  she  was  compelled, 
by  reason  of  feeble  health,  to  relinquish  her  mission 
work,  and  returned  with  her  children  to  America.  She 
rendered  good  service  to  Dr.  Wayland  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  his  memoir  of  Dr.  Judson.  She  died  June  1,1854. 
Her  published  works  are  “Alderbrook:  a collection  of 
Fanny  Forester’s  Village  Sketches  and  Poems”  (Boston, 
1846, 2 vols.) ; and  the  “ Biographical  Sketch  of  Mrs.  Sa- 
rah B.  J udson”  quoted  below.  There  are,  besides,  a good- 
ly number  of  separate  poems,  of  exquisite  beauty  of  sen- 
timent and  of  great  pathos,  of  which  we  mention  only 
Mg  Bird  and  The  two  Mammas.  See  Wayland,  Life 
and  Labors  of  Adoniram  Judson  (Boston,  1854,  2 vols. 
8vo) ; Calcutta  Review,  vol.  xiv ; The  Judson  Offering, 
edited  by  J.  Dowling,  D.D.  (New  York,  1848  ):  Biograph- 
ical Sketch  of  Sarah  B.  Judson,  by  Airs.  Emily  C.  Jud- 
son (New  York,  1849);  Knowles,  Life  of  Mrs.  Ann  If. 
Judson;  Kendrick,  Life  and  Letters  of  Mrs.  Emily  C. 
Judson  (1861) ; Stuart,  Lives  of  Mrs.  A nn  II.  Judson  and 
Sarah  B.  Judson,  with  a Biographical  Sketch  of  Mrs. 
Emily  C.  Judson  (1853).  (J.  T.  G.) 

Ju  ’el  (To vi}\),  a Gneeized  form  (1  Esdr.  ix,  34, 35) 
of  two  Heb.  names : a.  in  the  former  verse  Uel  (Ezra 
x,  34);  b.  in  the  latter  Joel  (Ezra  x,  43). 


JUENNIN 


10S9 


JULIAN  THE  APOSTATE 


Juennin,  Gaspard,  a French  Roman  Catholic  the- 
ologian, was  born  at  Varembon  (Bresse)  in  1650,  en- 
tered the  Oratory  in  1674,  and  taught  literature,  philos- 
ophy, and  theology  in  several  schools  of  the  congrega- 
tion of  the  Oratory.  He  died  in  1713.  He  deserves 
special  recognition  as  a theological  writer.  Ilis  princi- 
pal works  are,  (1)  Comment  arius  llistoricus  et  dogmati- 
cus  de  Sacramentis  (Lyons,  1 606, 2 vols.  fol.).  This  work 
contains,  besides  the  commentary,  three  dissertations 
on  censures,  irregularities,  and  indulgences,  and  deserves 
special  notice  for  the  fact  that  it  is  the  first  work  of 
modern  theologians  treating  at  length  the  subject  of 
the  sacraments:  — (2)  Institutiones  Theological  (Lyons, 
1606, 4 vols.  12mo,  and  often),  which  was  used  for  some 
time  as  a text-book  of  theology  in  several  Roman  Cath- 
olic institutions;  a revised  edition,  expunging  some  ob- 
jectionable views,  was  prepared  by  Juennin  in  1705,  and 
the  work  continued  in  use.  In  1708  he  published  an 
abridgment  of  it  as  a Compendium  Tkeologia>  (Paris,  1708, 
12mo).  He  also  published  a separate  treatise  on  the 
sacraments,  Theorie  et.  pratique  des  Sacraments  (Paris, 
1713,3  vols.  12mo),  which  is  valuable.  See  Hook,  Ce- 
des. Diet,  vi,  337. 

Juggernaut.  See  Jaggerxaut. 

Jugglers,  a word  brought  into  English  from  the 
medieval  Latin  joculator  (in  Provenca \,joglar,joglador ; 
in  old  French,  jongl'ere  or  jonglier'),  through  the  modern 
French  jongleur , and  originally  used  to  designate  the 
professional  musicians  who  attended  the  Troubadors  and 
Tro  live  res  of  Provence  and  the  north  of  France,  either 
singing  their  poems,  or.  if  they  sung  them  themselves, 
accompanying  them  with  an  instrument,  which  was 
reckoned  beneath  the  dignity  of  the  poet  himself.  This 
profession  was  in  the  ]\Iiddlc  Ages  (from  the  lltli  to  the 
15th  century)  an  honorable  one,  but  it  gradually  died 
out,  or  at  least  lost  its  respectability,  and  jugglers  became 
a term  for  rope-dancers,  and  all  that  class  of  persons 
who  sought  to  gTatifv  the  populace  by  sleight  of  hand 
or  feats  of  agility,  until  in  our  own  day,  finally,  it  has 
come  to  be  used  as  a synonyme  of  conjurer,  and  is  ap- 
plied to  persons  who  perform  tricks  of  legerdemain  (q. 
v.).  See  also  the  articles  Exorcism  ; Sorcery. 

Jugulura.  See  Transenxa. 

Juice  (C'3“,  asis\  as  freshly  trodden  from  grapes), 
new  wine  (as  rendered  Isa.  xlix,  26,  etc.) ; hence  fer- 
mented liquor  of  pomegranates  (Cant,  viii,  2).  See 
Wine. 

Jukes,  Charles,  a (Dutch)  Reformed  minister,  na- 
tive of  England  (17NH),  was  converted  in  1812,  and  join- 
ed the  Church  of  St.  Neots,  Nottinghamshire,  under  the 
ministry  of  Rev.  Thomas  Morall.  Filled  with  pious  zeal, 
he  began  to  preach  as  a layman,  with  great  acceptance, 
among  the  destitute  villages  within  twenty  miles  of  his 
home;  subsequently  be  entered  the  ministry,  and  came 
to  this  country  in  1830.  On  his  way  to  Canada,  on  the 
day-boat  to  Albany,  he  preached,  at  the  request  of  pas- 
sengers, a sermon  from  the  words  “ There  is  a God  in 
heaven  who  revealeth  secrets;”  and,  at  the  urgent  re- 
quest of  a plain  farmer,  who  was  not  a professing  Chris- 
tian, he  turned  aside  to  preach  to  two  churches  in  Sar- 
atoga County,  N.  Y.,  to  which  he  was  at  once  called. 
He  was  settled  successively  in  Presbyterian  and  Re- 
formed churches  at  Edinburgh  and  Fish  House,  Amster- 
daifi,  Glen  and  Auriesville,  Stone  Arabia  and  Ephratah, 
and  at  Rotterdam,  all  in  N.  Y.  lie  died  at  the  latter 
place  in  1862.  At  Glen  about  seventy  persons  united 
with  the  Church  during  the  four  years  of  his  pastorate. 
His  great  characteristic  was  his  untiring  zeal  and  ear- 
nestness. He  was  a bold,  catholic,  evangelical  preacher 
of  righteousness,  an  excellent  pastor,  and  a very  exem- 
plary and  useful  servant  of  the  Lord.  His  temperament 
was  peculiarly  happy;  his  Christian  experience  large 
and  varied ; his  death  peaceful  and  triumphant.  See 
Corning,  Manual  of  the  Ref  Ch. ; Personal  Recollections. 
(W.J.R.T.) 

Jul,  the  name  of  Christmas  among  the  northern 
IV.— Z z z 


tribes  of  Europe.  Originally  it  was  the  name^of  the 
old  Scandinavian  festival  of  winter  solstice,  but  as  the 
practices  of  that  festival  have  in  the  main  been  incor- 
porated in  the  Christmas  feast,  they  term  it  Jul.  See 
Jules. 

Jules  are  aerial  spirits  and  daemons  among  the  north- 
ern tribes,  especially  the  Laplanders,  to  whom  divine 
adoration  is  paid.  They  suppose  them  to  dwell  under 
particular  trees,  and  proceed  thither  to  offer  up  sacrifices 
once  a year,  at  Christmas  time,  whence  the  name  of  the 
Christian  festival  corresponds  to  their  Jul  (q.v.).  See 
Broughton,  Biblioth.  hist.  Sacra,  s.  v. ; Thorpe,  Northern 
Mgthol.  ii,  49  sq. 

JuTia  (’IouXia,  fern,  of  Julius ),  a Christian  woman 
of  Rome,  to  whom  Paul  sent  his  salutations  (Rom.  xvi, 
15);  she  is  named  with  Philologus,  and  is  supposed  to 
have  been  his  wife  or  sister.  A.D.  55. — Kit  to.  “Ori- 
gen  supposes  that  they  were  master  and  mistress  of  a 
Christian  household  which  included  the  other  persons 
mentioned  in  the  same  verse.  Some  modern  critics 
have  conjectured  that  the  name  may  be  that  of  a man. 
Julias”  (Smith). 

Julian  the  Apostate,  emperor  of  Rome  A.D.  361- 
363,  is  especially  celebrated  by  his  able  and  vigorous, 
j but  vain  attempt  to  dethrone  Christianity,  and  to  re- 
store the  ancient  Graeco-Roman  paganism  in  the  Roman 
Empire  to  its  former  power  and  glory.  He  was  the 
nephew  of  Constantine  the  Great,  the  first  Christian  on 
the  throne  of  the  Ciesars,  and  was  educated  under  the 
restraining  influence  of  the  court  Christianity  of  his 
cousin,  the  Arian  emperor  Constantius.  The  austere, 
monastic,  intolerant,  tyrannical,  and  hypocritical  form 
of  this  belief  repelled  the  independent  youth,  and 
made  him  a bitter  enemy  of  Christianity,  and  an  enthu- 
siastic admirer  of  the  heathen  poets  and  philosophers, 
whose  writings,  in  spite  of  the  severe  prohibition,  be 
managed  secretly  to  procure  and  to  study,  especially 
during  his  sojourn  at  the  University  of  Athens.  “The 
Arian  pseudo-Christianity  of  Constantius  produced  the 
heathen  anti-Christianity  of  Julian,  and  the  latter  was 
a well-deserved  punishment  of  the  former.”  But  he 
shrewdly  concealed  his  real  convictions,  and  hypocriti- 
cally conformed  to  all  the  outward  rites  cf  ( hristianity 
till  the  death  of  the  emperor.  His  heathenism  was  not 
a simple,  spontaneous  growth,  but  an  artificial  and  mor- 
bid production.  It  was  the  heathenism  of  pantheistic 
eclecticism  and  Neo-Platonism,  a strange  mixture  of 
philosophy,  poesy,  and  superstition,  and,  in  Julian  at 
least,  in  great  part  an  imitation  or  caricature  of  Chris- 
tianity. With  all  bis  philosophical  intelligence,  he  cred- 
ited the  most  insipid  legends  of  the  gods,  or  gave  them 
a deeper  mystic  meaning  by  the  most  arbitrary  allegor- 
ical interpretation.  He  was  in  intimate  personal  inter- 
course with  J upiter,  Minerva,  Apollo.  Hercules,  who  paid 
their  nocturnal  visits  to  his  heated  fancy,  and  assured 
him  of  their  special  favor  and  protection.  His  moral 
character  corresponded  to  this  pseudo-philosophy.  He 
was  full  of  affectation,  vanity,  sophistry,  loquacity,  and 
dissimulation.  Everything  he  said,  or  wrote,  or  did 
was  studied  and  calculated  for  effect.  His  apostasy  from 
Christianity  Julian  dates  from  bis  twentieth  year,  A.D. 
351.  But  while  Constantius  lived  he  concealed  his  pa- 
gan sympathies  with  consummate  hypocrisy  for  ten 
years,  and  outwardly  conformed  to  all  the  rites  of  the 
Church.  After  December,  355,  he  suddenly  surprised 
the  world  with  brilliant  military  successes  and  execu- 
tive powers  as  Ca?sar  in  Gaul,  which  was  at  that  time 
threatened  by  barbarians,  and  won  the  enthusiastic  love 
of  his  soldiers.  Now  he  raised  the  standard  of  rebellion 
against  his  imperial  cousin,  and  in  361  openly  declared 
himself  a friend  of  the  gods.  By  the  sudden  death  of 
Constantius  in  the  same  year  be  became  sole  empe- 
ror, and  made  his  triumphal  entry  into  Constantinople. 
; He  immediately  set  to  work  with  the  utmost  zeal  to  re- 
| organize  all  departments  of  the  government  on  the  for- 
i mer  heathen  basis.  He  displayed  extraordinary  tal- 


JULIAN  TIIE  APOSTATE 


1090 


JULIAN  CESARINI 


ent  industry,  and  executive  tact.  The  eighteen  short 
months  of  f.is  reign  (Dec.  3G1-June,  3G3)  comprehend 
the  plans  of  a life-long  administration.  He  was  the  most 
gifted,  the  most  learned,  and  most  active,  and  yet  the 
least  successful  of  Woman  emperors.  • His  reign  was  an 
utter  failure,  teaching  the  important  lesson  that  it  is 
useless  to  swim  against  the  stream  of  history  and  to 
impede  the  onward  march  of  Christianity.  He  proved, 
bevond  the  possibility  of  doubt,  that  paganism  had  out- 
lived itself,  and  that  Christianity  was  the  only  living 
religion  which  had  truly  conquered  the  world,  and  car- 
riedall  the  hopes  of  humanity.  He  died  in  the  midst  of 
his  plans  in  a campaign  against  Persia,  characteristical- 
ly exclaiming  (according  to  later  tradition),  “ Galiloean, 

' thou  hast  conquered !” 

Julian  did  not  resort  to  open  violence  in  his  attempt 
to  destroy  Christianity  in  the  empire,  lie  affected  the 
policy  of  philosophical  toleration,  lie  did  not  wish  to 
give  the  Christians  an  additional 
glory  of  martyrdom.  He  hoped 
to  attain  his  end  more  surely  in 
an  indirect  way.  He  endeavored 
to  revive  heathenism  by  his  own 
personal  zeal  for  the  worship  of 
the  gods.  But  his  zeal  found  no 
echo,  and  only  made  him  ridicu- 
lous in  the  eyes  of  the  cultivated 
heathen  themselves.  When  he 
endeavored  to  restore  the  oracle 
of  Apollo  near  Antioch,  and  ar- 
ranged for  a magnificent  display, 
only  a solitary  priest  appeared  in 
the  temple  and  ominously  offered 


them  as  to  intimate  that  they  were  the  only  historical 
books  received  by  Christians  as  of  authority,  and  the 
only  authentic  memoirs  of  Jesus  Christ  and  his  apostles, 
and  the  doctrines  preached  by  them.  He  allows  their 
early  date,  and  even  argues  for  it.  He  also  quotes,  or 
plainly  refers  to,  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  to  St.  Paul’s 
Epistles  to  the  Romans,  the  Corinthians,  and  the  Gala- 
tians. He  does  not  deny  the  miracles  of  Jesus  Christ, 
but  allows  him  to  have  ‘ healed  the  blind,  and  the  lame, 
and  demoniacs and  to  have  ‘ rebuked  the  winds,  and 
walked  upon  the  waves  of  the  sea.’  He  endeavors,  in- 
deed, to  diminish  these  works,  but  in  vain.  The  conse- 
quence is  undeniable — such  works  are  good  proofs  of  a 
divine  mission.  He  endeavors  also  to  lessen  the  num- 
ber of  the  early  believers  in  Jesus,  and  yet  he  acknowl- 
edges that  there  were  ‘ multitudes  of  such  men  in  Greece 
and  Italy’  before  St.  John  wrote  his  Gospel.  He  like- 
wise affects  to  diminish  the  quality  of  the  early  believ- 
ers, and  yet  acknowledges  that,  besides  ‘ men-servants 
and  maid-servants,’  Cornelius,  a Roman  centurion  at 
Ctesarea,  and  Sergius  l’aulus,  proconsul  of  Cyprus,  were 
converted  to  the  faith  of  Jesus  before  the  end  of  the 
reign  of  Claudius.  And  he  often  speaks  with  great  in- 
dignation of  Peter  and  Paul,  those  two  great  apostles  of 
Jesus,  and  successful  preachers  of  his  Gospel:  so  that, 
upon  the  whole,  he  has  undesignedly  borne  testimony 
to  the  truth  of  many  things  recorded  in  the  books  of  the 
New  Testament.  He  aimed  to  overthrow  the  Christian 
religion,  but  has  confirmed  it:  his  arguments  against  it 
are  perfectly  harmless,  and  insufficient  to  unsettle  the 
weakest  Christian.  He  justly  excepts  to  some  things 
introduced  into  the  Christian  profession  by  the  late  pro- 


fessors of  it,  in  his  own  time  or  sooner,  but  has  not  made 
a goose.  He  also  attempted  to  | one  objection  of  moment  against  the  Christian  religion 
reform  heathenism  by  incorpora-  as  contained  in  the  genuine  and  authentic  books  ol  the 
with  it  the  morals  and  be-  New  Testament.” 

Literature. — Juliani  Imperatoris  Opera  quee  supersunt 
omnia  (ed.by  Pctavius,  Par.  1583,  and  more  completely 
by  E.Spanheim,  Lips.  1696, 2 vols.  fol.);  Cyril  of  Alex- 
grafting  fresh  scions  on  a dead  I andria,  Contra  impium  Jul.  libri  x (which  contains  the 
Flavius  Clandiauus  Ju- trunk.  As  to  the  negative  part  chief  arguments  of  Julian  against  Christianity,  with 
banns.  of  his  assault  upon  Christianity,  I their  refutation),  in  Cyril’s  Opera , ed.  Aubert,  tom.  vi, 

Julian  gave  liberty  to  all  the  sects,  in  the  hope  that  I and  in  Spanheim’s  edition  of  Julian’s  works.  Also  the 
they  might  devour  each  other,  but,  instead  of  that,  he  1 relevant  sections  in  the  heathen  historians  Ammianus 


nevolent  institutions  of  Chris- 
tianitv.  But  this  was  like  gal- 
vanizing a decaying  corpse,  or 


only  gave  new  vigor  to  the  cause  he  hated.  lie  forbade 
the  Christians  to  read  the  classical  authors,  and  deprived 
them  of  the  benefit  of  schools  of  their  own,  that  they 
might  cither  grow  up  in  ignorance,  or  be  forced  to  get 
an  education  from  heathen  teachers.  He  assisted  the 
Jews  in  rebuilding  the  Temple  of  Jerusalem  in  order  to 
falsify  the  prophecy  of  Christ,  but  the  attempt,  three 
times  repeated,  signally  failed,  by  an  interposition  of 
Providence  approaching  to  the  character  of  a miracle. 
(Respecting  this  question,  see  the  judicious  remarks 
in  Lardner’s  Jewish  and  Heathen  Testimonies,  vol.  iv.) 
Finally  he  wrote  a book  against  Christianity,  in  which 
he  united  all  the  arguments  of  Porphyry,  Celstis,  Lucian, 
and  other  enemies  before  him,  and’ infused  into  them 
his  own  bitter  and  sarcastic  spirit. 


Marcellinus,  Zosimns,  and  Eunapins,  and  in  the  Church 
histories  of  Socrates,  Sozomenns,  and  Theodoret.  Among 
modern  writers  on  Julian  we  refer  to  Tillemont,  Me- 
moires,  etc.,  vii,  322-420;  Warburton,  Julian  (London, 
1751);  Neander,  Julian  und  sein  Zei falter  (Leipz.  1812; 
in  an  English  dress,  N.  Y.  1850, 12mo) ; Joudot,  Ilistoire 
de  Tempereur  Julien  (1817,2  vols.);  Wiggers , Julian  der 
Abtrunnirje  (Leipzig,  1837) ; Tcuffel,  De  Jidiano  reliyio - 
nis  Christiani  contemptore  (Tub.  1844);  Fr.  Strauss,  Der 
Romantiker  avf  dem  Thron  der  Ccesaren,  oder  Julian  der 
Abtrunnirje  (Manheim,  1847) ; Schaff,  Ch.  Hist,  ii,  40  sq. 

Julian  of  Eclanum.  See  Felagius;  Pelagians. 

Julian  of  Halicarnassus,  the  bishop  celebrated 
as  the  leader  of  a faction  of  the  Monophysitcs,  who  bear 
his  name,  flourished  in  the  early  part  of  the  6th  century. 


But  this  attack 

called  forth  able  refutations  from  Gregorv  of  Nazianzum.  i , .. 

c yril  Of  Alexandria,  and  others,  ami  contains  a nnmbe  . " he"  !'e  Monapky**' bi.l.op.  were  deposed  in  619  he 
or  incidental  admissions  width  eonflrm  the  truth  of  most , "as  oM,Sed  *°  *•  10  Alex"mlna  for  safet-v'  For  !aT' 
of  the  leading  facts  of  the  Gospel  history.  Dr.  Lard- 
nor  (in  his  learned  book  on  the  Credibility  of  the  (iospel  | 

History,  in  the  London  edition  of  his  works  bv  lvippis, 
vii,  638-639)  thus  sums  up  the  involuntary  testimony 
of  this  ablest  and  bitterest  of  all  the  heathen  opponents 

of  Christianity : ^ ^ ^ 

Julian  has  borne  a valuable  testimony  to  the  history  Middle  Ages,  prominently  connected  with  the  efforts  to 
and  to  t he  books  of  the  New  Testament,  lie  allows  heal  the  dissensions  within  the  pale  of  the  Romish 
t tat , cmis  was  bom  in  the  reign  of  Augustus,  at  the  Church  of  the  15th  century,  and  the  union  of  the  East- 
taxing  made  in  Judaea  by  Cvrenius;  that  ern  and  Western  churches  at  the  Council  of  Florence, 
t ie  wistiau  re  ligion  had  its  rise,  and  began  to  be  prop-  was  born  at  Rome  in  1398,  the  descendant  of  a noble 
agated,  m the  tunes  of  the  emperors  Tiberius  and  Clan-  family  noted  in  the  annals  of  Italian  history.  He  was 
r-'t’-  r i " ’tl,css  t0  ^,e  g(‘iiiiineness  and  authen-  educated  at  the  University  of  Perugia,  and  early  evinced 
mi  \ o t ie  tour  gospels  of  Matthew,  Mark,  Luke,  and  the  possession  of  great  ability  and  uncommon  talents, 
o in.  an<  t i Acts  of  the  Apostles;  and  he  so  quotes  , He  particularly  interested  himself  hi  the  study  of  the 


ther  details,  see  Monophysites. 

Julian,  St.  See  Pomekius, 

Julian  of  Toledo.  See  Toledo,  Councils  or 
(14th)  ; Spain. 

Julian(us)  Cesarini,  Cardinal,  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  characters  of  the  Church  of  Rome  in  the 


JULIAN  CESARINI 


1091 


JULIAN  CESARINI 


Roman  law,  and  soon  acquired  the  reputation  of  being 
one  of  the  foremost  thinkers,  and  was  honored  with  a 
professor’s  chair  at  Padua.  He  was  not  suffered,  how- 
ever, to  continue  long  in  the  rostrum,  for  the  Church  of 
his  day  needed  men  of  decision  and  energy  to  allay  the 
strife  which  was  raging  fiercely,  and  threatening  the  de- 
struction of  the  hierarchal  edifice  so  lately  dishonored 
in  the  occupation  of  the  papal  chair  by  licentious  char- 
acters. See  Innocent  XXIII.  Seventy  years  of  an- 
archy and  orphanage,  sometimes  familiarly  termed  the 
Babylonish  captivity  of  the  Church  of  Rome,  the  illus- 
trious Colonna,  better  known  as  Martin  V,  was  to  oblit- 
erate, as  well  as  to  rebuild  on  a firm  foundation  both 
the  moral  and  material  influence  of  the  papacy.  For 
such  a task  his  own  talents,  however  great,  were  not 
sufficient,  and  the  wise,  far-seeing  pontiff' was  not  slow  to 
recognise  the  uncommon  endowments  of  young  Julian, 
who  was  accordingly  appointed  apostolic  prothonotary, 
and,  later,  auditor  of  the  Rota  Romana.  Cardinal  Brunda 
in  particidar  became  interested  in  the  rising  Cesarinus; 
and  when,  in  1419,  he  was  sent  as  papal  legate  to  Bo- 
hemia to  bring  back  the  erring  (?)  sli^ep  of  the  Sla- 
vonic fold,  Julian  was  the  legate’s  companion  and  main 
stay.  Though  this  mission  failed  to  accomplish  its 
objects,  at  the  Diet  of  Brunn,  Jidian  won  golden  opin- 
ions from  the  Romans,  and  in  1426  (May  22)  was 
promoted  to  the  cardinalate  of  Santo  Angelo.  When, 
in  1431,  a diet  was  summoned  at  Nuremberg  “ to  con- 
cert immediate  and  vigorous  action  for  crushing  the 
hitherto  successful  rebellion,”  it  was  none  other  than 
cardinal  Julian  whom  Martin  V selected  (after  his  death 
confirmed  by  Eugcnius  IV)  to  represent  him  in  that  ec- 
clesiastical body,  as  well  as  in  the  general  eouncil  which, 
in  accordance  with  the  celebrated  decree  “ I'requens ” of 
the  Council  of  Constance,  was  soon  to  meet  at  Basle. 
It  had  been  determined  to  extirpate  the  Hussites  by  all 
means.  As  kind  words  would  not  bring  them  back  to 
the  open  arms  of  the  Church,  the  cardinal  legate  boldly 
exchanged  the  mitre  for  the  helmet.  Quickly  an  army 
of  Crusaders  was  gathered,  and  in  himself  blending  to- 
gether the  characters  of  the  priest  and  the  soldier,  he 
sought  to  kindle  in  their  hearts  the  fires  of  religious  zeal 
and  patriotic  devotion.  But  neither  the  potency  of  a 
blessed  banner  and  a consecrated  sword,  nor  the  specta- 
cle of  an  ecclesiastic  urging  on  an  army  to  a war  of  faith, 
had  sufficiently  impressed  Rome’s  most  faithful  adhe- 
rents to  brave  “ the  face  of  a religious  influence  like  that 
of  Hnssitism,  which  was  rooted  in  national  sympathies, 
such  as  Rome  could  never  awaken  in  the  day  of  her 
greatest  power,”  and  ignominiously  the  papal  legate 
again  failed  in  his  mission.  Meanwhile,  however,  the 
Council  of  Basle  had  convened,  opened  in  the  absence  of 
the  legate  by  two  of  his  deputies,  and  thither  Julian  di- 
rected his  steps.  He  assumed  its  presidency  Sept.  9, 
1431,  determined  by  peaceful  measures  to  essay  once 
more  the  accomplishment  of  a task  which  he  had  found 
it  impossible  to  secure  on  the  field  of  battle;  and  to  his  ; 
honor  be  it  said  that  all  the  inducements  which  were  now  j 
held  out  to  the  Hussites  were  the  offerings  of  a sincere  j 
and  pious  soul,  which  desired  above  all  things  else  the  ' 
glory  of  God  and  the  honor  of  his  Church.  “The  san-  t 
guine  and  undaunted  legate,  who  had  been  the  first  to  [ 
reckon  on  the  military  campaign  as  the  only  remedy  for  , 
the  spreading  disease,  was  now  the  first  to  fall  back  • 
upon  the  council  from  which  he  had  hitherto  augured 
so  little  good.  ‘As  I saw  no  other  remedy  left’  (are  his 
own  words),  ‘I  animated  and  encouraged  all  to  remain 
steadfast  in  the  faith,  and  to  fear  nothing,  since  on  this 
very  account  I was  going  to  the  council  where  the  whole 
Church  would  assemble’  ” (Jenkins).  Ilow  much  Julian 
did  to  obtain  Eugenius’s  sanction  to  the  continuation  of 
the  eouncil  which  that  pontiff  was  determined  to  abro- 
gate, and  how  Julian,  notwithstanding  the  publication 
of  a bull  abrogating  the  council,  and  convoking  it  eigh- 
teen months  later  at  Bologna,  continued  the  session, 
and  with  what  liberality  and  sagacity  he  counselled  in 
the  deliberations  of  this  synod,  and  with  what  earnest-  I 


ness  and  zeal  he  defended  the  independence  of  the 
council  and  its  superiority  over  the  pontiff,  we  have  al- 
ready mentioned  in  the  article  on  Basle,  Council  op 
(q.  v.).  Suffice  it  to  say  here  that,  had  the  wise  and 
far-seeing  policy  of  the  legate  been  allowed  to  be  car- 
ried out  in  the  name  and  with  the  full  consent  of  the  • 
Roman  pontiff,  the  Hussites  would  have  been  redeemed, 
and  the  Church  of  Rome  been  spared  the  reductions 
which  she  suffered  in  the  lGth  century,  and  which  even 
now  threaten  her  very  existence.  See  Old  Catholic 
Church.  Annoyed  and  distracted  by  the  opposition 
of  Eugenius,  the  president  hardly  knew  how  to  dispose  of 
the  Bohemian  question,  and  the  Hussites,  doubting  the 
sincerity  of  the  cardinal,  received  every  advance  with 
distrust,  and  misinterpreted  every  utterance  of  Julian  ; 
till  it  finally  became  evident  to  both  parties  that  their 
mission  was  fruitless,  and  that  it  had  only  opened  an- 
other and  a still  more  intricate  chapter  in  the  history 
of  this  long  and  eventful  controversy.  See  Hussites. 
But  if  Julian  had  battled  for  reform  within  the  Church, 
and  had  boldly  argued  in  favor  of  the  council’s  suprem- 
acy over  the  incumbent  of  the  papal  chair,  he  had  yet 
faithfully  adhered  to  the  Roman  pontificate ; and  when, 
as  he  believed,  the  fathers  of  the  Church  determined  to 
deprive  Eugenius  of  a portion  of  his  support,  he  as  ear- 
nestly defended  the  pontiff’s  cause,  and  suddenly  the 
council  found  itself  at  variance  with  its  able  president, 
and  the  Church  threatened  with  a greater  schism  than 
she  had  ever  yet  endured.  It  is  true  Julian  had  been 
one  of  the  prime  and  most  zealous  leaders  in  abolishing 
the  annates  (q.  v.),  but  he  stanchly  insisted  with  the 
same  zeal  for  some  compensation  from  other  sources; 
and  when  he  found  the  council  indisposed  to  meet  his 
views,  he  quickly  changed  front,  and  became  one  of 
Eugenius’s  most  outspoken  adherents.  The  breach  had 
opened  in  February,  1437 ; in  September,  the  arrival  of  a 
papal  bull  ordering  a synod  at  Ferrara  to  consider  the 
question  of  uniting  the  Eastern  and  Western  churches 
obliged  Julian  to  resign  the  presidency,  and  on  Jan.  9, 
1438,  he  quitted  Basle,  and,  after  a short  visit  to  Rome, 
hastened  to  Ferrara.  See  Florence,  Council  of;  Fe- 
lix Y.  This  sudden  change  of  Julian  from  an  opponent 
to  an  adherent  of  the  Eugenian  party  has  led  historians 
to  doubt  the  sincerity  of  the  cardinal;  but  when  we 
consider  that  Julian’s  great  object  was  the  union  of  the 
Eastern  and  Western  churches,  the  healing  of  schisms 
within  either,  and  a thorough  reformation  to  suit  the 
wants  of  the  day,  this  action  explains  itself  to  us  as 
really  the  natural  development  of  those  great  princi- 
ples of  ecclesiastical  policy  upon  which  Julian  had  acted 
from  the  beginning;  and  “while  the  advocates  of  the 
pope  were  rejoicing  over  the  immediate  fruits  of  a suc- 
cessful duplicity,  that  vigorous  and  impulsive  mind, 
which  had  guided  the  intellectual  strength  of  Christen- 
dom in  the  freest  and  most  enlightened  council  that  had 
assembled  since  the  apostolic  age,  was  preparing  itself 
for  a future  of  more  enduring  triumph.  The  long  and 
dreary  night  of  schisms  and  controversies  seemed  now 
far  spent,  and  the  day  of  strength  and  reunion  was  at 
hand.  How  sublime  was  the  prospect  now  opening 
upon  an  earnest  and  sanguine  mind ! The  restoration 
of  the  Church  to  its  first  beamy  and  integrity;  its  ref- 
ormation by  the  recovery  of  its  first  estate,  and  of  that 
spirit  which  made  it  one  in  Christ;  the  overthrow  of 
the  infidel  and  the  enemy  of  the  Church  by  a warfare 
of  whose  glories  the  earlier  Crusades  would  become  but 
a faint  prophecy ; the  extension  of  the  power  of  the  pa- 
pacy over  all  Christendom,  and  the  restoration  of  the 
episcopacy  to  its  pristine  beauty  under  the  one  univer- 
sal patriarch— these  were  the  most  prominent  features 
of  this  vision  of  things  to  come.  We  cannot  wonder 
that,  with  such  a view  before  him,  the  great  reformer 
of  the  Church  at  Basle  laid  down  the  work  of  reforma- 
tion to  take  up  that  of  union;  and  while  keeping  still, 
as  the  rule  of  all  his  labors,  the  truth  proclaimed  at 
Constance,  ‘There  can  be  no  real  union  without  refor- 
mation, nor  true  reformation  without  union,’  he  fell  back 


1092 


JULIAN  CESARIXI 

upon  tnc  work  of  union  when  that  of  reformation  be- 
came impossible.  To  one  who  regards  his  course  from 
this  point  every  stage  of  his  transition  from  Basle  to 
Florence  will  become  clear  and  consistent.  Everywhere 
we  shall  recognise  a careful  provision  for  the  exigencies 
t „f  the  Church,  formed  from  the  matured  experience  of 
* its  past  dangers,  and  a disinterested  zeal  which,  in  an 
age  of  selfish  intrigue,  was  as  naturally  misrepresented 
as  it  was  wilfully  misunderstood.  The  insinuation  of 
( ribbon  is  at  once  confronted  by  the  fact  that  if  Julian 
had,  not  sought  the  peace  of  the  Church  rather  than  liis 
own  aggrandizement,  lie  might  have  grasped  at  this 
moment  the  papacy  itself,  and  wrested  from  Engenius 
i hat  authority  under  which  he  was  content  to  close  a life 
of  brilliant  but  ill-requited  service”  (Jenkins,  p.  2GG-2G8). 

But  if  the  conduct  of  Julian  had  hitherto  been  the 
outgrowth  of  a sincere  heart,  we  can  only  look  with  sus- 
picion upon  his  actions  in  the  Council  of  Florence,  re- 
moved thither  from  Ferrara.  His  name  deserves  to  be 
treated  with  ignominy  for  the  duplicity  he  manifested 
towards  the  leading  prelates  of  the  Eastern  Church,  and 
from  this  time  dates  the  earliest  “ moral  declension  in 
the  course  of  Julian,  which  was  at  once  closed  and  ex- 
piated in  the  dark  page  of  the  Hungarian  legation.” 
!>ee  Florence,  Council  of;  Purgatory ; Filioque; 
Joseph  of  Constantinople.  For  liis  valuable  ser- 
vices to  the  papacy,  Engenius  bestowed  on  him  the  bish- 
opric of  Frascati,  and  in  1443  further  evinced  his  recog- 
nition of  Julian’s  efforts  by  appointing  him  legate  to 
Hungary,  which  country,  the  very  bulwark  against  fur- 
ther advances  of  the  Turks,  was  at  this  time  threat- 
ened by  civil  dissensions,  and  was  fast  developing  many 
causes  of  as  serious  apprehensions  to  the  court  of  Borne 
as  Bohemia  had  done  in  the  previous  century.  See  Sicj- 
Ismund;  Wladislas.  Again  Julian  was  obliged  to  lay 
aside  his  spiritual  weapons,  and  to  draw  the  temporal 
sword  which  he  had  once  before  wielded  so  unsuccessful- 
ly. But  not  only  did  be  change  the  manner  and  weapons 
of  warfare,  but  even  the  principles  for  which  he  fought; 
and  hereafter  Julian  is  marked  by  an  unscrupulous  pur- 
suit of  liis  object,  and  it  becomes  really  difficult  to  de- 
tect, under  the  strange  disguise  which  he  henceforth  as- 
snmes.‘-the  features  of  that  enlightened  mind  which  in- 
spired the  decrees  and  directed  the  correspondence  of 
the  Council  of  Basic.”  liis  task  was  to  heal  the  dissen- 
sions of  the  Hungarian  royalty,  and  to  enlist  that  coun- 
try, in  union  with  all  the  rest  of  Christendom,  to  check 
the  further  advance,  and,  if  possible,  bring  about  the  ut- 
ter annihilation  of  tlie  Turks;  and  when  the  sudden 
•loath  of  the  queen  regent  Elizabeth  (which  is  often- 
times said  to  have  been  caused  by  Julian  Cesarinus) 
and  the  accession  of  Wladislas  had  secured  to  the  Turks 
a peace  of  ten  years,  it  was  Julian  who  came  forward  to 
argue  with  the  king  on  the  fallacy  of  adhering  to  a 
compact  with  heretics,  especially  as ’the  treaty  had  been 
made  without  the  sanction  of  tiie  holy  see.  The  apos- 
n-lic  authority  served  to  free  Wladislas  from  his  obli- 
gation, and  the  war  with  the  Saracens  began  anew,  in 
which  Utli  king  and  papal  legate  fell  a prey  to  Moham- 
medan defenders  at  the  battle  of  Varna  (1440).  Ac- 
cording to  some,  Julian  was  murdered  in  liis  flight  by  a 
\\  alladiian  who  saw  gold  on  liis  clothes;  others  sav  that 
the  Hungarians  killed  him  in  punishment  for  his  evil 
advice;  while  others,  again,  say  that  he  died  in  1440,  in 
consequence  "f  a wound  received  while  leading  on  the 

< hristiaus;  and  some  Bomisli  historians  even  claim  that 
he  suffered  martyrdom  in  the  camp  of  the  Turks;  but 
as  none  of  the  contemporary  historians  knew  anything 
of  the  kind  to  have  occurred,  it  seems  useless  to  refute 
the  statement.  Ilis  speeches  are  contained  in  the  Acts 
of  Councils,  and  his  two  letters  to  Engenius  concerning 
till*  ( on nril  of  Itaslc  in  t lie  Fasciculus  return  erpctemL 
(04  1535 :,  p.  27  sq.  .See  Jenkins.  Life  a,ul  Times  of 
i ordinal  Julian  (London,  1831,  8vr>)  • llefde,  Quart  rd- 
f /inO,  1847,  ii ; Cave.  Scriptures  cedes. ; Sehnickh./wV- 

< nntf/esc/iicltte,  xxxii,  1 1 sq. ; Milman,  Latin  Christianity 
(see  Index  m vnl.  viii).  (J.  11.  W.) 


JULIUS  AFRICANUS 

Julian  Calendar.  See  Calendar,  Roman. 

Julian  Cross,  or  Cross  of  St.  Julian,  is  the 
name  of  a crosslet  placed  saltire-wavs.  See  Cross. 

Julian  Epoch ; Julian  Year.  See  Chronol- 
ogy', Christian. 

Juliana,  St.  See  Corpus  Christi. 

Julianists.  See  Julian  of  Halicarnassus. 

Juliano,  a Spanish  Roman  Catholic  of  the  17th 
century,  who,  while  travelling  in  Germany,  was  con- 
verted to  tlie  Protestant  faith.  His  zeal  for  the  diffu- 
sion of  the  Word  of  God  led  him  to  undertake  the  dan- 
gerous enterprise  of  conveying  into  Spain  a large  quan- 
tity of  Bibles  concealed  in  casks,  and  packed  up  as 
Rhenish  wine.  A pretended  Protestant  betrayed  him. 
He  was  seized  by  the  Inquisition,  and,  together  with 
eight  hundred  purchasers  of  his  precious  treasure,  was 
condemned  to  the  torture  and  to  death. — Fox,  Booh  of 
Martyrs , p.  18G. 

Julias,  the  name  given  by  Philip  the  Tetrarch  to 
Bethsaida  in  honor  of  Julia,  the  daughter  of  the  em- 
peror Augustus.  Sec  Bethsaida. 


Coin  of  Julias. 


Julitta  of  Cappadocia,  a female  martyr  of  the  4th 
century,  under  Diocletian,  was  a Lycaonian  of  royal  de- 
scent, and  greatly  celebrated  for  her  Christian  virtues. 
To  avoid  the  bigoted  rage  of  the  pagan  governor,  she 
withdrew  from  Iconium,  her  native  city,  to  Tarsus.  But 
here,  with  her  young  son  C}'ricus,  she  was  seized,  and, 
confessing  herself  a Christian,  was  ordered  to  the  rack. 
Her  beautiful  boy,  for  repeating  his  mother’s  words,  “ I 
am  a Christian,”  was  dashed  in  pieces  on  the  pavement 
before  her  eyes,  for  which  the  dying  mother  gave  thanks 
to  God.  After  patiently  suffering  various  torments,  she 
was  beheaded,  April  1G,  A.D.  305. — Fox,  Book  of  Mar- 
tyrs, p.  55. 

Ju'lius  (TopMog,  for  the  Latin  Julius,  the  name  of 
an  honorable  Roman  family),  the  centurion  of  the  im- 
perial cohort  who  had  the  charge  of  conducting  Paul  as 
a prisoner  to  Rome,  and  who  treated  him  with  much 
consideration  and  kindness  on  the  way  (Acts  xxvii,  1, 
3,  43;  comp.  ver.  11.  31).  A.D.  55. — Kitto.  “Augus- 
tus’s band,”  to  which  Julius  belonged,  has  been  identified 
by  some  commentators  with  the  Italian  band  (Acts  x, 
1);  by  others,  less  probably,  with  the  body  of  cavalry 
denominated  Sebasteni  by  Josephus  (A  n/.  xix,  9, 2,  e tc.). 
Conyboare  and  TIowson  ( Life  of  St.  Paul,  ch.  xxi)  adopt 
in  the  main  Wieseler’s  opinion,  that  tlie  Augustan  co- 
hort was  a detachment  of  the  Pretorian  Guards  attach- 
ed to  the  person  of  the  Roman  governor  at  Cresarca ; 
and  that  this  Julius  may  be  the  same  as  Julius  Prisons 
(Tacitus,  Hist,  ii,  92;  iv.  1 1).  sometime  centurion,  after- 
wards prefect  of  the  Pretorians. — Smith.  See  Ital- 
ian; Paul. 

Julius,  a Christian  martyr,  was  a Roman  senator  in 
tlie  2d  century.  A convert  to  Christianity,  he  was  or- 
dered by  the  emperor  to  sacrifice  to  him  as  Hercules. 
This  Julius  absolutely  refused  to  do,  and  he  was  impris- 
oned, and  finally  beaten  to  death  with  clubs. — Fox,  Book 
of  M artyrs,  p.  22. 

Julius  Africanus,  an  ecclesiastical  writer  who 
flourished  in  the  beginning  of  the  3d  century,  was,  ac- 
cording to  Snidas  (s.  v,  Africanus),  a native  of  Libya, 
but  resided  generally  at  Emmans  (afterwards  Nicopo- 
lis),  in  Palestine.  The  same  writer  calls  him  also  Sex- 
tus. Little  is  known  of  bis  personal  history.  Eusebius 
( Hist.  Keel,  vi,  81)  relates  that  he  undertook  a journey 
to  Alexandria  to  listen  to  Heraclas,  the  teacher  of  the 


JULIUS  OESAR 


1093 


JULIUS  CAESAR 


catechumens  in  that  city,  as  also  that  he  was  sent  by  I 
the  inhabitants  of  Ennnausto  ask  of  the  emperor  Helio- 
gabalus  the  restoration  of  their  city,  which  was  granted 
(see  Jerome,  De  vir.  illustr.  c.  G3).  He  was  a friend  of 
Origen;  and  as,  in  letters  addressed  to  him  when  the 
latter  was  already  some  fifty  years  old,  he  styles  him 
“son,”  it  is  to  be  supposed  that  he  was  much  advanced 
in  years  in  238,  while  the  expression  “ colleague”  seems 
to  imply  that  he  was  also  a priest.  He  was,  according 
to  Jerome,  in  the  full  vigor  of  life  during  the  reign  of 
Heliogabalus  and  Alexander  Severus.  We  have  no  in- 
formation concerning  the  precise  date  of  his  death ; it 
occurred,  in  all  probability,  near  the  middle  of  the  3d 
century — some  say  about  A.D.  232.  He  enjoyed  great 
reputation  for  learning  among  the  ancients.  He  is  the 
author  of  the  oldest  Christian  history  of  the  world,  the 
Chronograpkiu,OT De  temporibns,  which  Eusebius  consid- 
ered very  trustworthy:  it  extended  from  the  creation  to 
the  third  year  of  the  reign  of  Heliogabalus  (221).  Un- 
fortunately, the  complete  work  is  not  in  our  possession ; 
a portion,  however,  was  preserved  to  us  by  copious  ex- 
tracts, which  subsequent  Church  historians  made  from 
it,  and  these  (fifty-six  fragments)  have  been  collected 
by  Galland  ( Bibliotheca , vol.  ii).  Julius  also  wrote  a 
letter  to  Origen  concerning  the  authenticity  of  the  his- 
tory of  Susannah  and  the  Elders,  and  another  to  Aristi- 
des on  the  differences  between  the  genealogies  of  Christ 
by  Matthew  and  Luke.  In  this  last  letter,  speaking 
against  the  opinion  of  a fretus  pia  having  been  perpe- 
trated by  the  Church  in  order  to  prove  the  rights  of 
Jesus  as  high-priest  and  king,  he  says,  “ Far  be  it  that 
such  a thought  should  govern  the  Church  of  Christ  as 
to  invent  a falsehood  to  glorify  Christ.”  Eusebius, 
Photius,  and  Suidas  ascribe  to  him  also  the  author- 
ship of  another  work  in  twenty-four  books,  a sort  of 
compendium  of  information  on  medicine  and  natural 
philosophy.  According  to  Suidas,  it  was  a collection 
of  empiric  formulas  for  curing  diseases  by  sorcery,  etc. 
But,  as  this  does  not  seem  to  agree  with  what  we  know 
of  the  general  character  of  the  man,  Dupin  thinks  that 
there  must  be  some  mistake,  and  that  there  probably 
existed  both  a Julius  Africanus  and  a Julius  Sextus, 
who  have  been  confounded  one  with  the  other.  Final- 
ly, he  has  also  been  considered  the  author  of  several 
treatises — De  trinitate,  De  cireumcisione , De  Attalo,  De 
Puseha,  De  Sabbate — which  are  evidently  not  his,  but 
belong  to  the  Roman  presbyter  Novatian.  See  Moh- 
ler,  Patrologie,  i,  577-580;.  Routh,  Pel.  Sacr.  ii,  108  sq. ; 
Herzog,  Reul-Kneyklop.  vii,  155. 

Julius  C.esar,  the  first  emperor  of  the  Romans, 
deserves  a place  in  our  work  on  account  of  his  connec- 
tion with  Jewish  history.  He  was  born  at  Rome  II. 
C.  100,  and  was  educated  in  Greece,  whither  the  Ro- 
man youths  of  his  day  were  wont  to  resort  for  instruc- 
tion. After  having  successively  held  the  offices  of  trib- 
une, qiuestor,  redile,  high-priest,  and  praetor  or  governor 
of  Spain,  Csesar  was  one  of  the  three  parties  who  con- 
stituted the  triumvirate  of  Rome,  B.C.  GO.  He  now  set 
out  for  Gaul,  ostensibly  aiming  at  the  subjugation  of 
the  Gauls,  but  actually  to  form  and  discipline  an  army 
that  might  enable  him  to  force  his  coadjutors  to  leave 
to  him  alone  the  government  of  the  Romans.  The  suc- 
cess with  which  his  efforts,  both  as  a soldier  and  a poli- 
tician, were  rewarded,  are  known  to  us  from  the  history 
of  the  Gallic  War  that  flowed  from  his  own  pen,  as  well 
as  from  other  distinguished  classic  historians.  When 
he  went  to  Gaul  he.  was  to  remain  there  five  years,  but 
the  expiration  of  that  time  finding  him  involved  in 
wars  with  the  barbarians,  five  years  more  were  added. 
Germain',  Britain,  and  other  countries  also  were  invaded 
in  turn;  and  when,  at  the  death  of  Crassus,  Caesar  and 
Pompev  alone  were  left  to  contend  for  supremacy,  a 
quarrel  naturally  enough  arose  between  the  two  rivals. 
Pompev  was  the  favorite  of  the  people,  and  therefore 
easily  controlled  the  senate ; if  only  once  Caesar  could  be 
obliged  to  disband  the  army,  as  whose  hero  the  victorious 
general  of  the  Gallic  wars  was  worshipped,  there  could 


be  no  longer  any  need  for  contention,  aud  Pompev. alone 
would  be  intrusted  with, the  responsibility  of  the  Roman 
government.  A decree  was  quickly  passed  by  the  Ro- 
man senate  commanding  Cassar  to  disband  his  forces; 
but  Cfesar  not  only  refused  to  comply  with  the  demand, 
but  actually  marched  against  Pompey,  whom  he  soon 
drove  from  Rome,  and  in  the  Eternal  City,  B.C.  49,  was 
made  dictator.  Of  the  pursuit  of  Pompey  and  the  fate 
of  the  latter  we  need  not  speak  here ; but  the  noble  con- 
duct of  the  Roman  general  towards  his  fallen  enemy 
and  towards  his  assassins  is  so  meritorious  in  its  char- 
acter, that  it  deserves  at  least,  in  passing,  a Christian 
commendation.  When  the  news  of  the  death  of  Pom- 
pey reached  Rome,  Caesar  was  again  appointed  dictator 
for  one  year  and  consul  for  five  years,  and  was  invested 
with  tribunicial  power  for  life.  His  adherence  to  the 
cause  of  Cleopatra  led  him  to  enter  Egypt  and  to  engage 
in  the  “Alexandrine  war,”  which  also  he  brought  to  a 
successful  termination  in  March,  B.C.  47.  In  Septem- 
ber of  this  year  he  returned  to  Rome,  and  was  once  more 
appointed  dictator.  But  with  the  death  of  Pompey  his 
partisans  had  by  no  means  vanished.  It  is  true  that 
they  had  quitted  Rome,  but  in  Africa  they  were  still 
dutiful  to  the  memory  and  principles  of  their  late  mas- 
ter. To  Africa,  therefore,  Cfesar  directed  his  steps; 
the  party  of  Pompey  was  quickly  attacked  and  sub- 
dued. The  feud  of  Metellus,  of  Scipio,  of  Cato,  and 
Juba  was  sad  indeed,  but  the  display  of  noble  and  wise 
generosity  which  C.Tsar  now  displayed  towards  those 
arrayed  in  arms  against  him  proves  him  “ to  have  been 
possessed  of  a great,  magnanimous  nature.  lie  was  not 
a man  that  could  stoop  to  the  vulgar  atrocities  of  Ma- 
rius or  Sulla,  and  so  he  majestically  declared  that  hence- 
forth he  had  no  enemies,  and  that  hereafter  he  would 
make  no  difference  between  Pompeians  and  Ca?sareans.” 
Returned  to  Rome,  he  celebrated  his  victories  in  Gaul, 
Egypt,  Pontus,  and  Africa  by  four  great  triumphs,  dur- 
ing which  the  whole  Roman  populace  was  feasted  and 
feted  by  his  magnificent  liberality.  But  the  display  in 
which  Cfesar  indulged  soon  ltd  the  Romans  to  fear  that 
he  aimed  higher  than  the  dictatorship — that  absolute 
government  was  his  object.  Roman  patriotism  had  not 
yet  expired.  Many  there  were  in  the  Eternal  City  in 
whose  veins  flowed  republican  blood,  and  the  man  who 
dared  to  conspire  to  deprive  them  of  the  liberties  they 
had  so  long  enjoyed  was  doomed  to  fall  at  their  hands. 
His  death  seemed  the  only  surety  of  the  continuation 
of  their  long-enjoyed  privileges  of  a free  and  untram- 
meled government.  While  Ca?sar  was  planning  how 
soonest  to  wear  the  insignia  of  royalty,  Brutus  and  other 
senators  were  sharpening  their  weapons  to  take  his 
life.  On  the  ides  or  fifteenth  of  31  arch,  after  Caesar  had 
taken  his  accustomed  seat  in  the  senate  at  the  Capitol, 
a friend  gave  him  a paper  containing  an  account  of  the 


JULIUS  ECIITER 


1094 


JULIUS  III 


Conspiracy  against  his  life,  but,  while  yet  holding  it  in 
his  hand,  the  conspirators  themselves  crowded  around 
him,  ami  at  a given  signal  their  daggers  pierced  his 
breast,  and  Home  was  visited  by  the  greatest  disaster 
that  could  have  befallen  her  at  this  time.  To  secular 
works  belongs  a reference  to  the  writings  of  this  re- 
markable character.  For  his  reformation  of  the  calen- 
dar. see  ( 'alendar,  Roman.  By  the  ecclesiastical  writ- 
er ( ‘a?sar  deserves  notice  for  his  kind  enactments  in  be- 
half of  the  Jews,  and  generous  treatment  of  them.  From 
this  people  he  had  received  valuable  assistance  during 
his  campaign  in  Egypt,  and  Osar  always  preserved  a 
grateful  recollection  of  Antipater  and  his  brethren.  In 
Egypt  he  confirmed  all  the  privileges  the  Jews  had  pre- 
viously enjoyed.  I n J uda-a  more  favorable  laws  were  en- 
acted ; Antipater  was  appointed  lieutenant  of  the  coun- 
try, with  the  honored  title  of  a Roman  citizen ; Hyr- 
canus  was  confirmed  in  the  priesthood,  and  provision 
was  made  for  the  fortification  of  the  Holy  City  and  the 
repair  of  its  walls.  Sec  J osephus,  Jewish  Antiquities,  bk. 
xiv,  chap,  viii  sq. ; Strabo,  Geography  (Bohn’s  ed.),  iii, 
1*4.  See  C.esau.  (J.ll.W.) 

Jr.lius  Echter.  See  Mespelbrunn. 

Julius  Henry,  duke  of  Brunswick,  deserves  our  no- 
tice on  account  of  his  identification  with  the  Reform 
movement  of  the  16th  century.  He  was  born  July  10, 
166*,  and  was  originally  designed  for  the  clerical  office,  [ 
but  in  156*  he  succeeded  his  father,  and  at  once  intro-  ' 
duced  the  religion  of  the  Reformers,  for  which  he  had 
early  manifested  a strong  inclination.  In  1576  he  found- 
ed the  Fniversity  of  Helmstedt.  lie  died  May  3, 1580. 

Julius  Maternus.  Sec  Firmjccs. 

Julius  I,  Pope,  a native  of  Rome,  succeeded  Marcus 
(+  ( )ct.  7,  336)  on  the  6th  of  Feb.  337,  after  the  papal 
chair  had  been  vacant  for  four  months.  We  know  hard- 
ly anything  of  him  beyond  the  part  he  took  in  the  Ath- 
anasian  controversy,  lie  sided  with  Athanasius,  and 
convoked  a synod  to  be  held  under  his  presidency;  but 
the  Eastern  churches  were  not  inclined  to  admit  the 
right  of  arbitration  and  decision  of  the  Roman  bishop  in  , 
such  matters  (see  Epist.  S ywdalis  Syn.  Sardieemis  ad 
Donutum,  in  Mansi,  iii,  136),  and  declared  to  Julius  that 
they  did  not  admit  his  superiority  to  any  other  bishop, 
even  though  his  was  the  largest  city ; yet  they  would 
continue  in  friendly  relation  with  him  if  he  would  re- 
nounce the  plan  of  subverting  their  decisions.  Julius 
persisted  in  holding  the  synod  despite  the  absence  of 
the  Eastern  bishops,  and  Athanasius  was  declared  the 
lawful  bishop,  lie  also  took  part,  through  his  legates, 
in  the  Synod  of  Sardica.  The  Eastern  bishops  of  this 
council,  after  their  withdrawal  to  Philippopolis,  excom- 
municated Julius.  But  this  continued  opposition  did 
not  prevent  him  from  writing  in  34i>,  on  the  return  of 
Athanasius  to  Alexandria,  to  the  Church  of  that  city  an 
autograph  letter  of  congratulation.  This  letter,  and  the 
one  mentioned  above,  are  all  that  we  have  from  the  pen 
of  Julius  (sec  Socrates,  Hist.  Keel,  ii,  23 ; Athanasius 
AP<>1  2,  p.  770).  1 le  died  April  12, 352,  and  is  commem- 
orated in  the  Roman  ( ,’atholic  Church  on  that  day.  The 
Eastern  Church  erroneously  considers  Julius  as ‘the  au- 
thor of  one  of  its  liturgies.  See  Socrates,  lib.  ii  and  iii ; 
Baronins, . I nn.  Aeries. ; Tillcmont,  Memoires ; Sozomen, 
/V.w.art.  * ; Dupin,  BibUotheque  ,les  A uteurs  Eccles. : 
BruHot;  ) im  des  Saints,  April  12;  Herzog,  Reat-Ency- 
klopwhe ; lloefer,  Xottr.  Ring.  Generate,  xxvii,  157.  ’ 

Julius  II.  Pope.  Cardinal  Bella  Rovkkk,  nephew 
of  pope  .Sixtus  IV,  took  the  papal  chair  after  the  one 
month  s rule  of  Pius  111,  in  1503.  I Ie  was  born  at  Albez- 
/.o!a,  near  Savona,  in  1441;  became  successively  bishop  of 

aiilwn  r8* 'nWll,0’V'Stia’  1W°"na> Avignon, and Mende, 
and  \\  as  finally  made  cardinal  by  his  uncle,  Sixtus  IV 
During  th0  pontificate  of  Alexander  VI,  the  most  infa- 
, !?!ed  °f  a11  the  1,0P(,S  Julian  della  Rovere 

t n T"  t0.rpare  the  sncees- 

a cliUffi  , C !T  <>ate;  ibut  the  Canli,ial  J’Amboise, 
archbishop  oi  Uoueu  and  minister  of  Louis  XII,  be-  , 


came  liis  competitor,  and  the  claims  of  the  French 
prelate  were  sustained  by  an  army  marching  against 
Rome.  Outwitted  in  this  attempt,  Julian  at  once  set 
out  to  procure  his  future  success,  and,  persuading  the 
Italian  cardinals  that  their  interest  demanded  the  elec- 
tion of  a native  pope,  secured  the  election  of  Piecolomini 
as  pope  Pius  III.  During  the  short  reign  of  the  latter 
Julian  resumed  his  intrigues,  and  when  Pius  111  died, 
twenty-six  days  after  his  election,  Julian  had  so  well 
succeeded  in  bribing  the  most  influential  cardinals  by 
promises  of  power  and  temporal  advantages  that  he 
received  the  position.  After  his  exaltation  to  the  pa- 
pal throne,  he  set  about  to  raise  the  papacy  from  the 
political  degradation  to  which  it  had  sunk  during  the 
reign  of  his  predecessors,  generally  termed  “the  night  of 
the  papacy.”  Determined  to  recover  for  the  Church  all 
that  had  belonged  to  the  Roman  sec  in  the  days  of  In- 
noeent  III,  he  began  by  driving  Cicsar  Borgia  out  of  his 
ill-gotten  possessions  in  the  Romagna;  but  there  he 
found  another  power,  the  Venetians,  who,  during  the 
I preceding  troubles,  had  taken  possession  of  Ravenna, 
Rimini,  and  other  places.  The  Venetians  offered  to  pay 
tribute  to  the  sec  of  Rome  for  those  territories,  but  Ju- 
lius refused,  and  demanded  their  absolute  restitution  to 
the  Church.  After  fruitless  negotiations,  Julius,  in  1508, 
made  a league  with  Louis  XII,  the  emperor  Maximil- 
j ian,  and  tlie  duke  of  Ferrara,  against  Venice.  This  was 
I called  the  League  of  Cambray,  and  its  object  was  the 
destruction  of  the  republic  of  Venice  and  the  partition 
of  its  territories.  Venice,  however,  stood  firm,  although 
its  armies  were  defeated  and  its  territories  were  rav- 
aged by  both  Germans  and  French.  At  last  Julius  him- 
self, having  recovered  the  town  of  Romagna,  perceived 
the  impolicy  of  uniting  with  ultramontane  sovereigns 
against  the  oldest  Italian  state,  and  accordingly,  in  Feb. 
1510,  he  made  peace  with  Venice.  Wishing  to  undo 
the  mischief  which  he  had  done,  and  to  drive  the  for- 
eigners (whom  he  styled  “ barbarians”)  out  of  Italy,  he 
first  sought  to  arm  the  Germans  against  the  French, 
whom  he  dreaded  most ; but,  not  succeeding,  lie  called  to 
i his  aid  the  Swiss.  He  himself  took  the  field,  and  at- 
tacked and  took  the  town  of  La  Mirandola,  entering  it 
by  a breach,  in  January,  1511 ; later  lie  met  with  re- 
verses,  and  lost  Bologna.  But  in  the  following  Octo- 
ber his  legates  succeeded  in  forming  a league,  which 
he  called  ‘"holy,”  with  Ferdinand  of  Spain,  Henry  of 
England,  the  Venetians,  and  the  Swiss.  The  campaign 
subsequent,  in  1512,  effected  the  total  expulsion  of  the 
French  from  Lombardy.  But  this  was  done  by  the 
Swiss,  German,  and  Spanish  troops,  and  Julius  merely 
succeeded  in  driving  one  party  of  foreigners  out  of  Italy 
by  means  of  other  foreigners,  who  meantime  subverted 
the  rqniblie  of  Florence,  and  gave  it  to  the  Mediei.  In 
the  midst  of  these  events.  Julius  died  of  an  inflamma- 
tory disease,  on  the  21st  of  February,  1513.  He  was  suc- 
ceeded by  Leo  X.  Louis  XII  had  convoked  a council 
in  order  to  obtain  the  approval  of  the  French  clergy  on 
his  warfare  against  Rome.  To  retort  this  measure  the 
fifth  Lateran  Conneil  was  convoked  (brought  to  a close 
after  the  accession  of  Leo  X),  and  thus  the  designs  of 
the  French  king  were  completely  frustrated.  As  an  ec- 
clesiastical ruler,  Julius  has  little  to  recommend  him  in 
the  eyes  of  the  Christian  Church.  As  a political  sov- 
ereign, he  is  described  by  Ranke  as  “a  noble  soul,  full 
of  lofty  plans  for  the  glory  and  weal  of  Italy;”  and  pro- 
fessor Leo  considers  him,  with  all  his  defects,  as  one  of 
the  noblest  characters  of  that  age  in  Italy.  He  was 
fond  of  the  fine  arts,  patronized  Bramante,  Michael  An- 
gelo, and  Rafl’aelle,  and  began  the  structure  of  St. Pe- 
ter’s Church.  See  English  Cyclopeeclia,  s.  v. ; Herzog, 
Real-Encyldop.  vii,  157  ; Reichel,  Roman  See  in  the  Mid- 
dle  Ages.p.  534  sq.;  Baxmann ,Politik  d.Papste ; Bower, 
Hist,  of  the  Popes,  vii,  372  sq.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Julius  III,  Pope  {Gian- Maria  del  Monte,  Cardi- 
nal Giocci),  succeeded  Paul  III  in  1550.  lie  was  born 
at,  Monte  San  Sovino,  near  Arezzo,  Sept.  10,  1487.  He 
first  studied  law,  but,  securing  the  protection  of  his  un- 


JUMENTA 


1095 


JUNIPER 


cle,  cardinal  Antonio  del  Monte,  he  entered  the  Church, 
and  soon  became  archbishop,  and  was  intrusted  with 
the  administration  of  different  dioceses.  Paul  III  made 
him  cardinal  of  St.  Vitale  and  bishop  of  St.  Palestrina, 
and  sent  him  as  one  of  the  four  legates  to  open  the 
Council  of  Trent  (q.  v.).  After  bis  elevation  to  the 
pontificate  lie  reopened  (1551)  the  sittings  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  Trent,  suspended  under  his  predecessor  (1549). 
Closely  allied  to  Charles  V,  he  spent  his  reign  in  quar- 
relling with  Prance,  Venice,  and  also  with  Ferdinand, 
king  of  the  Romans,  and  brother  of  Charles  V.  His 
name  is  linked  with  English  history  by  his  efforts  to 
organize  with  Mary  the  reunion  of  England  with  Rome. 
See  Pole.  Julius  III  died  in  March,  1555,  leaving  be- 
hind him  a very  indifferent  character,  marked  by  in- 
capacity and  misconduct.  While  a cardinal  he  was 
remarkable  for  his  firmness  and  activity,  but  after  be- 
coming pope  he  gave  himself  up  to  luxury  and  pleasure, 
and  went  so  far  in  his  disregard  of  all  consistency  as 
to  give  the  cardinal’s  place  left  vacant  by  his  election 
to  one  of  his  servants,  whose  only  merit  consisted  in 
having  taken  care  of  his  pet  monkey.  Sec  Ciacconi, 
Vitce  Pontif  ; Iloefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvii,  105 ; 
Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vii,  158;  Ranke,  Papacy,  i,  201 
sq. ; Bower,  Hist,  of  the  Popes,  vii,  458  sq. 

J umenta,  cattle.  Hereties  who  denied  the  resur- 
rection of  the  dead  were  accustomed  to  bestow  oppro- 
brious epithets  on  those  who  persisted  in  maintaining 
the  truth  of  Scripture.  Sometimes  they  called  them 
carnei,  animates, j umenta,  carnal,  sensual,  cattle  ; also  lu- 
tei,  earthy,  etc. — Farrar,  Ecclcs.  Diet.  s.  v. 

Jumpers  or  Barkers  is  a name  for  those  persons 
who,  as  an  inference  from  2 Sam.  vi,  16,  believe  that  re- 
ligious worship  must  be  accompanied  by  violent  agita- 
tions, convulsive  leaping  and  dancing.  This  singular 
religious  belief  is  said  to  have  originated  among  the 
congregations  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  in  the  western  part  of 
Wales,  about  1760,  but  it  soon  found  friends  among  the 
Quakers,  and  later  among  the  Irvingites.  The  J nmpers 
found  special  defenders  in  the  Welsh  poet  William  Wil- 
liams (q.  v.),  Harris  Rowland  (q.  v.),  etc.  They  are 
sometimes  called  Barkers  because  frequently  they  do 
not  confine  their  religious  exuberances  to  jumping  and 
dancing,  but  accompany  them  with  violent  groans  and 
incoherent  remarks,  often  degenerating  into  a sort  of 
bellowing.  Discountenanced  in  England,  the  Jump- 
ers emigrated  to  the  United  States,  and  here  they  con- 
tinue to  flourish  moderately.  We  believe  they  have 
some  adherents  in  Pennsylvania  and  Ohio,  and  particu- 
larly in  the  extreme  West.  Evans,  in  his  Sketch  of  the 
Denominations  of  the  Christian  World  (Lond.  1811),  re- 
lates his  experience  in  a meeting  of  the  Jumpers  which 
he  attended:  “About  the  year  1785  I myself  was  very 
accidentally  present  at  a meeting  which  terminated  in 
jumping.  It  was  held  in  the  open  air,  on  a Sunday  even- 
ing, near  Newport,  in  Monmouthshire.  The  preacher 
was  one  of  lady  Huntingdon’s  students,  who  concluded 
his  sermon  with  the  recommendation  of  jumping ; and  I 
must  allow  him  the  praise  of  consistency,  for  he  got  down 
from  the  chair  on  which  he  stood  and  jumped  along 
with  his  hearers.  The  arguments  he  adduced  for  this 
purpose  were,  that  David  danced  before  the  ark,  that 
the  babe  leaped  in  the  womb  of  Elizabeth,  and  that  the 
man  whose  lameness  was  removed  leaped  and  praised 
God  for  the  mercy  which  he  had  received ! He  expa- 
tiated on  these  topics  with  uncommon  fervency,  and 
then  drew  the  inference  that  they  ought  to  show  simi- 
lar expressions  of  joy  for  the  blessings  which  Jesus 
Christ  had  put  into  their  possession.  He  then  gave  an 
impassioned  sketch  of  the  sufferings  of  the  Saviour,  and 
thereby  roused  the  passions  of  a few  around  him  into  a 
state  of  violent  agitation.  About  nine  men  and  seven 
women  for  some  little  time  rocked  to  and  fro,  groaned 
aloud,  and  then  jumped  with  a kind  of  frantic  fun’. 
Some  of  the  audience  flew  in  all  directions ; others  gazed 
on  in  silent  amazement.  They  all  gradually  dispersed 


except  the  jumpers,  who  continued  their  exertions  from 
eight  in  the  evening  till  near  eleven  at  night.  I saw 
the  conclusion  of  it;  they  at  last  kneeled  down  in  a cir- 
cle, holding  each  other  by  the  hand,  while  one  of  them 
prayed  with  great  fervor,  and  then,  all  rising  up  from 
off  their  knees,  departed ; but  previous  to  their  disper- 
sion they  wildly  pointed  up  towards  the  sky,  and  re- 
minded one  another  that  they  should  soon  meet  there, 
and  never  again  be  separated.” 

Jung.  See  Stilling. 

Ju'nia,  or  rather  Ju'nias  (Toui'i«e,  a deriv.  of 
Junius,  the  name  of  a Roman  family),  a Christian  at 
Rome,  to  whom  Paul  addressed  a salutation  in  connec- 
tion with  Andronieus,  as  being  his  “ kinsmen  and  fel- 
low-prisoners, who  are  of  note  among  the  apostles,”  and 
were  in  Christ  before  himself  (Rom.  xvi,  7) ; hence  prob- 
ably of  Jewish  extraction.  A.D.  55.  As  the  gender  of 
the  epithets  applied  is  uncertain  (ovyyevtig  uai  avj>ai\~ 
HaXiorovf),  some  (c.  g.  Origen,  Chrysostom,  and  other 
fathers)  have  supposed  a female  (Townon  comes  equally 
well  from  Tom da)  to  be  meant  (but  see  Michaelis,  in 
Pott’s  Sylloge,  vii,  128). 

Junilius  of  Africa,  generally  believed  to  have 
been  bishop  in  the  6th  century,  is  known  by  his  work 
Dc  partibus  divines  legis , dedicated  to  a certain  bishop 
Primasius,  probably  the  one  of  Hadrumetum  who  in  553 
indorsed  the  Constitutum  of  Vigilius.  Junilius  himself 
claimed  no  originality,  but  acknowledged  his  obligation 
to  a certain  Paulus  of  Persia,  supposed  to  have  been 
Paulus  of  Bassora,  who  afterwards  bceame  metropolitan 
of  Nisibis  (though  he  was  not  a Persian).  The  work  is 
in  the  form  of  a dialogue  between  a master  and  his  pu- 
pil, and  is  a sort  of  introduction  to  the  sacred  writings. 
The  first  book,  on  Seripture,  is  divided  into  two  parts,  on 
the  outward  expression  and  the  inward  meaning;  the 
outward  expression  contains  five  particulars — the  spe- 
cies of  writing,  its  authority,  its  author,  its  style,  and 
its  order  of  place.  The  inward  meaning  has  reference 
especially  to  three  particulars,  God,  this  world,  and  the 
next.  The  second  book  treats  of  this  world,  its  crea- 
tion, its  government,  the  properties  and  accidents  of 
nature,  the  nature  of  will,  and  the  consequences  and  re- 
sults of  will.  Junilius  then  speaks  of  types,  of  predic- 
tions before  and  under  the  law  concerning  Christ  and 
the  calling  of  the  Gentiles,  and  of  Reason  in  its  agree- 
ment with  the  commands  of  Scripture.  Special  atten- 
tion is  due  to  the  fact  that  Junilius  does  not  count  the 
Chronicles,  Ezra,  Nehemiah,  Job,  Judith,  Esther,  and  the 
Maccabees  among  canonical  books.  The  work  has  been 
published  as  Junilii  de  Partibus  Divirnn  Legis,  libri  ii 
(Basil.  1545,  8vo;  Francfort  ad  Oder,  1603,  8vo;  and  in 
Biblioth.  Patri.  i). — Herzog,  Real-Encyklop.  vii,  174  sq. ; 
Clark,  Success,  of  Sac.  Lit.  ii,  323. 

Ju'niper  (Erh,  ro'them,  prob.  so  called  from  its  use 
in  binding ; Sept,  in  1 Kings  xix,  4,  'Pci$a/u  v.  r.  'P«3- 
piv;  in  verse  5,  epvrov ; in  Job  xxx,  4,  4YA ov;  in  Psa. 
exx,  4,  tpijpiKug;  Yulg . juniperus,  but  in  Psa.  exx,  4, 
desolatorius),  a shrub  or  tree  mentioned  as  affording 
shade  to  Elijah  in  his  flight  to  Horeb  (1  Kings  xix, 4, 5), 
and  as  affording  material  for  fuel,  and  also,  in  extreme 
cases,  for  human  food  (Psa.  exx,  4;  Job  xxx,  4).  The 
older  translators  seem  to  have  been  unacquainted  with 
it,  while  the  modem  versions  have  generally  followed 
the  Vulgate  in  referring  it  to  the  juniper  (see  Stengel 
in  the  Biblioth.  Brem.  vii,  fasc.  5;  Hiller,  Hierophyt.  i, 
253 ; Sprengel,  Gesch.  d.  Botan.  i,  25),  which,  however, 
seems  to  be  indicated  by  a different  Hebrew  word.  See 
Heath. 

The  different  species  of  juniper  have  by  some  botan- 
ists been  ranked  under  Cedrus,  the  true  species  being 
distinguished  by  the  title  of  Cedrus  baccifera,  and  the 
pines  by  that  of  Cedrus  conifera.  Of  Juniperus,  the 
dpKivSog  of  the  Greeks  and  abhitl  of  the  Arabs,  there 
are  several  species  in  Syria.  Of  these,  J.  communis,  the 
common  juniper,  is  a very  widely  diffused  species,  being 
found  in  Europe  and  Asia,  in  the  plains  of  northern  and 


JUNIPER 


1096 


JUNIPER 


in  the  mountains  of  southern  latitudes,  usually  forming 
a low  shrub,  but  in  some  situations  being  fifteen  feet, 
and  even  thirty  feet  high.  J.  oxycedrus,  the  sharp  or 
prickly,  or  brown-berried  juniper,  closely  allied  to  the 
common  juniper,  is  an  evergreen  shrub,  from  ten  to 
twelve,  but  sometimes  even  twenty  feet  high.  It  was 
found  by  M.  Hove  on  Mount  Lebanon.  J.  drupacea,  or 
large-fruited  juniper,  is  a species  which  was  introduced 
into  Europe  from  the  East  under  the  Arabic  name  hab- 
hel.  This  name,  however,  is  applied  rather  to  all  the 
species  than  to  any  one  in  particular.  It  is  a nati\  e of 
Mount  Cassius,  and  is  thought  to  be  the  same  as  the 
greater  juniper  found  by  Belon  on  Mount  Taurus,  which 
•he  describes  as  rising  to  the  height  of  a cypress.  J. 
Pketmceu , or  Phoenician  juniper,  is  the  great  juniper  of 
Dioscorides.  and  is  a native  of  the  south  of  Europe,  Ilus- 
sia,  and  Syria.  It  has  imbricated  leaves,  bears  some  re- 
semblance to  the  cypress,  and  attains  a height  of  from 
twenty  to  thirty  feet.  J.  Lycia,  or  Lycian  j uniper,  is  a 
dwarf  species,  and  J.  Sabina,  or  the  common  Savine,  is 
usually  a low  spreading  shrub,  but  sometimes  rises  to 
the  height  of  ten  or  twelve  feet.  It  is  a native  of  the 
south  of  Europe  and  Syria.  Of  these  species,  J.  oxy- 
cedras  and  J.  Phanicea  are  the  only  species  which  could 
have  been  the  berush  of  Scripture.  Some  are  of  opinion 
that  the  wood  of J.  oxycedrus,  rather  than  that  of  the 
so-called  cedar  of  Lebanon,  is  the  cedar-wood  so  famed  j 
in  ancient  times  for  its  durability,  and  which  was  there-  ' 
fore  employed  in  making  statues.  It  is  to  the  wood  of 
certain  species  of  juniper  that  the  name  of  cedar-wood 
is  now  specially  applied.  See  Cedar. 


sun.  The  twigs  are  used  for  tying  bundles,  and  all 
kinds  of  herbs  that  are.  brought  to  market  are  fastened 


together  with  them. 


The  Spaniards  call  it  retama, 
from  the  Arabic  name  retem.  It 
is  now  referred  by  all  botanists 
to  the  genus  Genista,  and  called 
G.  monosperma.  It  is  described 
by  De  Candolle  as  a branch- 
ing and  erect  shrub,  with  slen- 
der, wandlike,  flexible  branches ; 
leaves  comparatively  few,  linear, 
oblong,  pressed  to  the  branches, 
pubescent;  inflorescence  in  few 
flowered  lateral  racemes ; petals 
white,  silky,  nearly  equal  to  one 
another ; legumes  oval,  inflated, 
smooth,  membranaceous,  one  to 
two  seeded.  It  occurs  on  the 
sterile  shores  of  Portugal,  Spain, 
Barbary,  and  Egypt.  It  was 
found  by  Forskal  at  Suez,  and 
named  by  him  Genista  Spar- 
tium  ? with  redeem  as  its  Arabic 
name.  Bove  also  found  it  at 
Suez,  and  again  in  different  parts 
of  Syria.  Belon  also  mentions 
finding  it  in  several  places  when 
travelling  in  the  East.  Burck- 
hardt  also  frequently  mentions 
the  shrub  rethem  in  the  deserts 
to  the  south  of  Palestine,  and  he 


Jumperus  Phanicea— yonng  anil  old.  (The  young  tree  is  here  about  three  feet  thought  it  to  be  the  same  plant 
ugh  and  of  a compact  pyramidal  form.  It  afterwards  spreads,  and  reaches  a tCp  Qenista  net  am  of  Forskal 
height  of  fifteen  feet  or  more,  as  in  the  other  specimens.)  as  tne  uemsm  rcFTlpnl  oi  r orsaai. 

1 ' Hr.  + 4- f nrVi/Jn  nloino  QrO 


He  states  that  whole  plains  are 
1 he  rothem , however,  is  no  doubt  the  plant  still  called  i sometimes  covered  with  this  shrub,  and  that  such  places 
by  the  Arabs  retem,  and  commonly  known  as  Snanish.  r 


and  is  described  as  a very  handsome  shrub,  remarkable 
for  its  numerous  snow-white  flowers,  Osbeck  remarks 
that  it  grows  like  willow-bushes  along  the  shores  of 
Spain,  as  lar  as  the  flying  sands  reach,  where  scarcely 
any  other  plant  exists  except  the  Ononis  serpens,  or 
creeping  resthurroiv.  The  use  of  this  shrub  is  very 
great  in  stopping  the  sand.  The  leaves  and  young 
branches  furnish  delicious  food  for  goats.  It  converts 
the  most  barren  spot  into  a tine  odoriferous  garden  bv 


rattam,  a species  of  broom,  bearing  a white  flower,  deli- 
cately streaked  with  purple,  afforded  me  frequent  shelter 
from  the  sun  while  in  advance  of  the  caravan”  ( Letters , 
p.  183).  Dr.  Iiobinson,  in  his  journey  from  Akabah  to 
Jerusalem,  says  {Researches,  ii,  124):  “The  shrubs  which 
we  had  met  with  throughout  the  desert  still  continued. 
One  of  the  principal  of  these  is  the  retem,  a species  of 
the  broom-plant , the  Genista  rcctazm  of  Forskal.  This  is 
the  largest  and  most  eonspicuous  shrub  of  these  deserts, 


ldH.i!<!"i  ^ cont*nue  a long  time.  It  seems  to  1 growing  thickly  in  the  water-courses  and  valleys.  Our 

it  -r  mgs  and  goats  against  the  scorching  heat  of  the  Arabs  always  selected  the  place  of  encampment,  if  pos- 


JUNIUS 


1097 


JUNIUS 


sible,  in  a spot  where  it  grew,  in  order  to  be  sheltered 
by  it  at  night  from  the  wind  ; and  during  the  day,  when 
they  often  went  on  iu  advance  of  the  camels,  we  found 
them  not  unfrequently  sitting  or  sleeping  under  a bush 
of  retem  to  protect  them  from  the  sun.  It  was  in  this 
very  desert,  a day’s  journey  from  Beersheba,  that  the 
prophet  Elijah  lay  down  and  slept  beneath  the  same 
shrub”  (1  Kings  xix,  4,  5,  “under  a jumper-tree").  It 
affords  shade  and  protection,  both  in  heat  and  storm,  to 
travellers  (Virgil,  Geory.  ii, 434, 436),  and  Bonar  describes 
it  as  particularly  useful  for  shelter  in  the  peninsula  of 
Arabia  Petraea  {Sinai,  p.  190). 

In  the  other  passages  the  meaning  is  not  so  clear, 
and  therefore  different  interpretations  have  been  given. 
Thus  Job  (xxx,  4)  says  of  the  half-famished  people  who 
despised  him,  “Who  eut  up  mallows  by  the  bushes,  and 
rothem-roots  for  their  food.”  Though  the  broom-root 
may  perhaps  be  more  suitable  for  diet  than  the  juniper , 
yet  they  are  both  too  bitter  and  medicinal  to  be  consid- 
ered or  used  as  nutritious,  and  therefore  some  say  that 
“ when  we  read  that  rothem-roots  were  their  food,  we 
are  to  suppose  a great  deal  more  than  the  words  express, 
namely,  that  their  hunger  was  so  violent  as  not  to  re- 
frain even  from  these  roots,”  which  were  neither  refresh- 
ing nor  nourishing.  Dr.  Thomson’s  ingenious  sugges- 
tion {Land  and  Book,  ii,  438),  that  perhaps  the  mallows 
only  were  used  for  food,  and  the  rothem-roots  as  fuel  to 
cook  them  with,  seems  hardly  tenable  from  the  phrase- 
ology. Ursinus  supposes  {Arboret.  Bibl.  c.  27)  that  in- 
stead of  the  roots  of  this  broom  we  are  to  understand  a 
plant  which  grows  upon  these  roots,  as  well  as  upon 
some  other  plants,  and  which  is  well  known  by  the  Eng- 
lish name  of  broom-rajje,  the  orobancke  of  botanists. 
These  are  sometimes  eaten.  Thus  Dioscorides  (ii,  136) 
observes  that  the  orobanche,  which  grows  from  the  roots 
of  broom,  was  sometimes  eaten  raw,  or  boiled  like  as- 
paragus. Celsius  again  suggests  an  amendment  in  the 
sentence,  and  thinks  that  we  should  understand  it  to 
mean  that  the  broom-roots  were  required  for  fuel,  and 
not  for  food,  as  the  Hebrew  words  signifying  fuel  and 
food,  though  very  similar  to  each  other,  are  very  differ- 
ent in  their  derivation  (see  Gesenins,  Thesaitr.  p.  1317 ; 
on  the  contrary,  Michaelis,  Vei/e  Orient.  Bibl.  v,  4, 5),  and 
this  sense  is  confirmed  by  some  of  the  Talmudical  writ- 
ers, as  11.  Levi  ben-Gerson,  in  his  remarks  on  this  pas- 
sage, says.  The  broom  is  the  only  fuel  procurable  in 
many  of  these  desert  situations  (see  Thevenot,  Trav.  i, 
222).  In  Psa.  exx,  4,  David  observes  that  the  calum- 
nies of  his  enemies  were  “like  arrows  of  the  mighty, 
with  eoals  of  rot  hem."  ' The  broom,  being  no  doubt  very 
commonly  used  as  fuel  in  a country  where  it  is  abun- 
dant and  other  plants  scarce,  might  readily  suggest  itself 
in  a comparison-;  but  it  is  also  described  as  sparkling, 
burning,  and  crackling  more  vehemently  than  other 
wood,  and  the  Arabs  regard  it  as  yielding  the  best  char- 
coal. Thus  the  tree  which  afforded  shade  to  Elijah 
may  have  furnished  also  the  “ coals”  or  ashes  for  baking 
the  cake  which  satisfied  his  hunger  (L  Kings  xix,  6). 
See  Celsius,  Hierobot.  i,  246;  Oedmann.TVna.  Sammlun- 
yen,  ii,  8;  Eorskal,  Flora  sEy.  et  Arab.  p.  lvi  and  214; 
Sehultens,  Comment,  on  Job,  ad  loc. ; Robinson,  Research. 
i,  299:  Burckliardt,  Syria,  p.  483;  Pliny,  II.  N.  xxiv,  9, 
65;  Balfour,  Plants  of  the  Bible,  p.  50 ; Stanley,  S.  and  P. 
p.  20, 79, 521. — Kitto. 

Junius,  Francis,  son  of  the  following,  was  born  at 
Heidelberg,  1589.  In  early  life  he  studied  mathemat- 
ics, but  finally  turned  his  attention  to  literature  and  the- 
ology. After  finishing  his  studies  he  went  to  France 
to  visit  his  parents.  In  1620  he  came  over  to  England, 
and  was  received  into  the  house  of  the  earl  of  Arundel, 
where  he  lived  as  his  librarian  for  thirty  years.  In 
1650  he  returned  to  the  Continent,  in  order  to  pass  some 
time  in  the  bosom  of  his  family.  For  two  years  he  lived 
in  Friesland,  in  a district  where  the  ancient  Saxon 
tongue  was  preserved,  that  he  might  study  the  lan- 
guage. In  1675  he  returned  to  England,  and  in  1676 
went  to  Oxford,  whence  he  retired  to  Windsor,  to  his 


nephew  Isaac  Vossius,  and  died  there  Nov.  19, 1677.  He 
was  a very  learned  pliilologian,  as  is  evinced  by  his 
writings,  which  are  lie  pidurci  Veterum,  libri  iii  (Am- 
sterdam, 1637,  4to)  : — Observations  in  Wilier  ami  Para- 
phrasim  Fruncicam  Cantici  Canticorum  (Amsterdam, 
1655,  8vo)  : — Annotations  in  harmoniam  Latino-franci - 
cam  quatuor  Fvanyel istaru m Latine  a Tatian.  corifec- 
tam  (Amsterd.  1655,  8vo)  : — Quatuor  I).  N.  J.  C.  Evan- 
yeliorum  Yersiones  perantiquie  duce,  Gothica  scilicet  etA  n- 
ylo-saxonica,  etc.;  Accedit  et  ylossarium  Gothicum:  cui 
preemittitur  alphabetum  Gothicum,  Runicum,  Anylo-sax- 
onicum,  etc.  (Dordrechti,  1655, 4to)  : — Ctedtmonis  Para- 
phrasis poetica  Geneseos  (Amsterdam,  1655, 4to).  His 
Etymoloyicum  Anylicanum  was  edited  by  Edward  Lye, 
Oxford,  1743,  folio, — Kitto,  Cyclop.  Bibl.  Lit.  i,  697. 

Junius,  Franciscus  ( Franqois  Du  Jem),  an  emi- 
nent French  Protestant  theologian,  was  born  at  Bourges 
in  1545.  He  studied  law  at  first,  but  embracing  the 
principles  of  the  Reformation,  for  which  his  father  suf- 
fered persecution,  he  removed  to  Geneva  in  1562,  to 
study  the  dead  languages  and  theology.  In  1565  he 
took  charge  of  a Walloon  congregation  at  Antwerp ; the 
party  troubles  of  the  time,  however,  obliged  him  to  with- 
draw first  to  a church  in  Limburg,  and  finally  to  Ger- 
many. Frederick  II  welcomed  him  at  Heidelberg,  and 
he  obtained  a church  in  the  Palatinate.  During  the 
war  of  1568  he  lived  in  the  Low  Countries,  and  was 
chaplain  of  the  Prince  of  Orange.  He  afterwards  again 
returned  to  his  charge,  and  remained  there  until  1573, 
when  he  was  called  to  Heidelberg  by  the  elector,  to  take 
part  with  Tremellius  in  the  translation  of  the  Old  Tes- 
tament. After  being  also  for  a while  professor  of  the- 
ology at  Heidelberg,  he  returned  to  France  in  1592  with 
the  duke  of  Bouillon,  and  was  employed  by  Henry  IV 
on  a mission  to  Germany.  Later  he  accepted  a profes- 
sorship at  Leyden,  where  he  remained  until  his  death 
in  1602.  His  principal  work  was  the  Latin  transla- 
tion of  the  Old  Testament,  which  he  executed  in  con- 
junction with  Tremellius.  It  appeared  in  five  parts, 
the  first  containing  the  five  books  of  Moses  (Frankfort, 
1575,  folio);  the  seeond  embracing  the  historical  books, 
1576;  the  third  the  poetical  books,  1579;  the  fourth 
the  prophets,  1579;  and  the  fifth  the  apocryphal  books, 
1579.  After  the  death  of  Tremellius  the  translation 
was  revised  by  his  colleague,  and  printed  at  London, 
1584,  8vo.  In  the  course  of  twenty  years  it  passed 
through  twenty  editions,  and  was  printed  for  the  last 
time  at  Zurich,  1764, 8vo.  Junius  lived  to  superintend 
a third  edition,  1596,  folio;  but  the  best  edition  probably 
is  the  seventh,  published  in  1624,  folio,  containing  a good 
index  by  Paid  Tossanus.  “ The  index  was  published  in 
a volume  by  itself  at  Frankfort,  1687,  folio,  and  repeat- 
edly after.  The  translation  cannot  be  called  elegant; 
it  is  too  literal,  and  is  sometimes  obscure  on  that  ac- 
count. It  is  also  disfigured  with  useless  glosses  and 
rabbinical  traditions”  (Kitto).  He  wrote  besides,  Apoc- 
olypseos  Analysis  (1592) : — Grammatica  Linyuee  I lehr  one 
(3d  edition,  1593)  : — A eta  Apostolorum  et  epistolce  2 S. 
Paulli  ad  Corinth,  ex  A rubica  translutione  Latine  red- 
dita: — Procutaclema  ad  F.  T.  interpretationem : — Prce- 
lectiones  in  3 priora  capita  Geneseos : — Explicatio  4 pri- 
or inn  Psalmortnn:  — Psalmns  101,  seu  principis  Chris - 
tiani  institutio:  — Comment,  in  Ezechielem Expositio 
Danielis: — Lectiones  in  Jonam: — Sacra  paralltla: — 
Xotre  in  Epistolam  S.Judev.  1 1 is  Optra  theoloyicu  were 
published  at  Geneva  in  1613,  in  two  vols.  folio,  and  are 
partly  exegetieal,  partly  philological  and  polemic.  His 
autobiography,  which  is  published  at  the  beginning  of 
his  works,  was  written  in  1595,  and  is  the  source  of  his 
biographies  published  by  Milch.  Adam  and  in  Bayle’s 
Dictionary.  See  Haag.  La  France  Protestante ; Herzog, 
Real-EncyHop.  s.  v. ; Kitto,  s.  v.  (J.  H.  W.) 

Junius,  Robert,  a Dutch  missionary,  a native  of 
Delft,  who  flourished  in  the  17th  century,  was  sent  by 
the  Dutch  government  to  the  western  part  of  the  island 
of  Formosa  in  1634,  and  was  eminently  successful  in  his 


JUNKIN' 


1098 


JUPITER 


missionary  labors.  lie  is  said  to  have  baptized  no  less 
than  six  thousand  persons.  He  also  provided  good  ed- 
ucational advantages  for  the  natives,  and  over  six  hun- 
dred young  men  crowded  the  schools  he  had  founded. 
Of  his  personal  history  in  other  respects  we  are  ignorant. 
His  literary  labors  were  confined  to  efforts  in  behalf  of 
the  people  "to  whom  he  was  sent.  He  composed  some 
prayers,  and  translated  certain  Psalms  into  the  Formosan 
language.  He  returned  to  Holland  in  after  days,  but 
thc°date  of  his  death  is  not  known  to  us.  See  Mos- 
lieirn,  Eccles.  Ilist.  iii,  bk.  iv,  cent,  xvii,  sect.  1,  note  24. 

Junkin,  George,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  a Presbyterian  min- 
ister of  note,  was  born  in  Kingston,  Cumberland  Coun- 
ty, Pa.,  Nov.  1, 1790,  entered  Jefferson  College  in  1809, 
and  graduated  in  1813.  While  at  college  lie  was  con- 
verted (1811),  and  upon  the  completion  of  his  collegiate 
studies  he  entered  at  once  on  a theological  course  of 
study  under  Dr.  John  31.  Mason  in  New  York  city,  was 
ordained  at  Gettysburg,  Pa.,  in  1818,  and  remained  in 
the  pastorate,' though  teaching  and  editing  a paper  a 
part  of  the  time,  till  1830.  He  was  principal  of  Pennsyl- 
vania Manual  Labor  Academy  at  Germantown,  Pa.,  from 
1830  to  1832;  president  of  Lafayette  College,  Easton, 
Pa.,  from  1832  to  1841 ; president  of  Miami  University 
from  1811  to  1844;  was  then  recalled  to  the  presidency 
of  Lafayette  College;  and  was  president  of  Washington 
College,  Lexington,  Ya.,  from  1848  to  1801,  when, on  the 
secession  of  Virginia,  he  left  the  college,  his  home,  and 
his  property.  Lafayette  College  thereafter  honored  him 
with  an  Emeritus  professorship.  He  died  May  20, 1808. 
4*  Dr.  Junkin  for  many  years  maintained  a great  influ- 
ence in  the  Church  courts,  sustained  by  his  thorough 
knowledge  of  every  subject  on  which  he  attempted  to 
speak,  and  the  keen  logic  with  which  he  exposed  the 
fallacies  in  the  arguments  of  his  opponents.  In  1844  he 
was  moderator  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  1833  he 
received  the  degree  of  IXD.  from  Jefferson  College,  and 
in  185(5  that  of  LL.D.  from  Rutgers  College.  Dr.  Jun- 
kin performed  an  amazing  amount  of  work  in  his  life- 
time. llis  preaching  record  shows  that  he  delivered  a 
larger  number  of  sermons  than  most  pastors  do,  while 
his  toils  in  building  up  and  reviving  colleges,  in  labo- 
rious agencies,  in  ecclesiastical  labors  in  the  Church 
courts,  in  the  professor’s  chair,  at  the  editor’s  desk,  and 
through  the  press,  in  his  numerous  books,  sermons,  and 
essays,  make  us  wonder  how  he  could  find  the  time  and 
endure  the  labor  of  doing  so  much.”  He  published  The 
Educator,  a periodical,  in  1838;  The  Vindication,  con- 
taining a history  of  the  trial  of  the  Rev.  Albert  Barnes 
by  the  Second  Presbytery  and  by  the  Synod  of  Phila- 
delphia, in  183(5;  4 Treatise  on  Justification,  in  1839; 
Ike  Little  Stone  and  the  Great  Image,  or  Lectures  on  the 
Prophecies,  in  1844;  The  Great  Apostasy,  a sermon  on 
Romanism,  in  1853;  Political  Fallacies,  in  18(52;  A 
Treatise  on  Sanctification,  in  18(54;  and  The  Tabernacle, 
or  the  Gospel  according  to  J loses,  in  1805.  Sec  Index 
volume  (No.  2)  to  Princeton  Review,  p.  22(5  sq. 

Juno,  the  Roman  name  of  the  queen  of  heaven, 
essentially  identical  with  the  Grecian  Hera.  Juno 
was  the  daughter  of  Kronos  (Saturn)  and  Rhea.  She 
was  the  highest  and  most  powerful  divinity  of  the 
Greeks  and  Romans  next  to  Jupiter  (the  Greek  rAtvg), 
of  whom  she  was  the  sister  and  wife.  Argos  and  Samos 
claimed  the  honor  of  her  birth.  According  to  Homer, 
she  was  educated  by  Oecanus  and  Thetis;  according  to 
others,  by  the  Hours.  Her  marriage  with  Jupiter  on  the 
islaaJ  of  Crete  was  honored  hv  the  presence  of  all  the 
gods.  This  marriage,  according  to  Homer,  was  con- 
summated without  the  knowledge  of  their  parents. 
Other*  sav  that  he  subdued  her  by  artifice  on  the  island 
of  S tums,  and  there  married  her.  According  to  the 
Greek  conception  of  her  character,  she  was  proud,  am- 
bitious, and  jealous;  and  in  the  Homeric  poems  she  is 
represented  as  an  obstinate,  quarrelsome  shrew,  and  her 
temper  a source  of  continual  discord  between  herself 
■ olt.cn  spitefully  favors  persons  who 


were  the  objects  of  his  displeasure,  and  he,  in  return, 
treats  her  with  all  that  severity  which,  in  ancient  times, 
the  husband  was  accustomed  to  use  towards  the  wife. 
He  scolds  and  often  beats  her,  and  on  one  occasion, 
when  she  had  driven  Hercules,  the  favorite  of  her  hus- 
band, to  Cos  by  a storm,  Jupiter  was  so  angry  that  he 
bound  her  hands  and  feet,  loaded  her  with  two  anvils, 
and  suspended  her  from  Olympus ; and,  to  add  to  the 
inconveniences  of  her  situation,  none  of  the  gods  were 
permitted  to  help  her.  During  the  Trojan  War  she 
lulls  Jupiter  to  sleep,  in  order  to  give  the  victory  to  the 
Greeks  during  his  slumbers,  and  with  difficulty  escapes 
the  blows  which  are  aimed  at  her  when  he  awakes.  No 
one  of  the  goddesses  dared  contend  with  her.  Diana 
once  attempted  it,  but  her  cheeks  exhibited  tlie  most 
woful  evidences  of  the  strength  of  the  mighty  Juno. 
All,  in  fine,  who  assumed  to  themselves  or  attributed  to 
others  a superiority  to  her,  experienced  her  vengeance. 
But  she  is,  notwithstanding,  a female  of  majestic  beau- 
ty, the  grandest  of  the  Olympian  goddesses,  well  calcu- 
lated to  inspire  awe,  although  wanting  the  soft,  insinu- 
ating, and  heart-touching  beauty  of  Venus.  As  the 
only  wedded  goddess  in  the  Greek  mythology,  she  nat- 
urally presided  over  marriage  and  the  birth  of  children. 
It  is  a significant  feature  of  the  Roman  character  that 
Juno,  in  addition  to  her  other  qualities,  was  the  guardian 
of  the  national  finances,  watching  over  her  people  like  a 
thrifty  mother  and  housewife ; and  a temple,  containing 
the  mint,  was  erected  to  her  on  the  Capitolinc  as  Juno 
Moneta  (the  Money-coiner).  In  the  Roman  conception 
she  was  also  the  goddess  of  chastity,  and  prostitutes 
were  forbidden  to  touch  her  altars.  She  was,  in  short, 
the  protector  of  women.  She  not  only  presided  over 
the  fertility  of  marriage,  but  also  over  its  inviolable 
sanctity,  and  nnchastitv  and  inordinate  love  of  sex- 
ual pleasures  were  hated  by  the  goddess.  Women  in 
childbed  invoked  Juno  Lucina  to  help  them,  and  after 
the  delivery  of  the  child  a table  was  laid  out  for  her  in 
the  house  for  a'  whole  week,  for  newly-born  children 
were  likewise  under  her  protection.  The  month  of 
June,  which  was  originally  called  Junonius,  was  con- 
sidered to  be  the  most  favorable  period  for  marrying. 
As  Juno  has  the  same  characteristics  as  her  husband 
in  so  far  as  they  refer  to  the  female  sex,  she  presides 
over  all  human  affairs,  which  are  based  upon  justice 
and  faithfulness,  hut  especially  over  domestic  affairs,  in 
which  women  are  more  particularly  concerned.  The 
companions  of  Juno  were  the  Nymphs,  Graces,  and 
Hours.  Isis  was  her  particular  servant.  Among  ani- 
mals, the  peacock,  the  goose,  and  the  cuckoo  were  sacred 
to  her.  Her  usual  attribute  is  the  royal  diadem,  formed 
like  a long  triangle.  She  is  drawn  in  a carriage  by  two 
peacocks.  She  had  several  temples  in  Rome.  The  first 
day  of  every  month,  and  the  whole  of  June,  were  sacred 
to  her.  See  Smith,  Diet,  of  Greek  and  Roman  Biogra- 
phy, ii,  G58. 

Ju'piter  (the  Latin  form  of  the  Greek  name  Zeus, 
ZfiV,  Genit.  Aioi,*),  the  principal  deity  of  the  Greek  and 
Roman  mythology,  in  which  he  is  fabled  to  have  been 
the  son  of  Saturn  and  Ops.  lie  is  supposed  to  represent 
the  fertilizing  power  of  the  heavens  (sec  Creuzer,  Sym- 
bols, ii,  518, 522),  and  was  worshipped  under  various  epi- 
thets. See  Walch,  Dissert,  in  A eta  A post,  iii,  173 ; com- 
pare Horace,  Odyssey,  i,  x,  5 ; Ovid,  Fasti,  v,  495 ; Meta- 
morph. xxn,  626;  Tzetz.  in  Lycophr.481 ; “ Hermes 
A n!c,”  Apollod.  Bibl.  iii,  10, 2 ; Homer,  Iliad,  ii, 402 ; Virg. 
Bin.  iii,  21 ; ix,  627 ; Xen.  Cyrop.  viii,  3,31 ; Scnec .Here. 
Fur.  299.  See  Mercury;  Diana.  (See  Sclimebel, Be 
Jove  7to\iovx<ij  Ac.  Altdorf,  1740).  This  deity  is  al- 
luded to  in  several  passages  of  the  Bible,  and  Josephus 
frequently  refers  to  his  worship.  The  following  state- 
ments are  chiefly  from  Kitto’s  Cyclopaedia,  s.  v. : 

1.  It  is  stated  in  2 Macc.  vi,  1,  2,  that  44  the  king  sent 
an  old  man  of  Athens  (Sept.  'ASyvaiov,  Vulg.  Antio- 
chenumi)  (some  say  4 ail  old  man,  Atlicncas,’  but  Gro- 
tius,  following  the  Latin,  suggests  instead  ol  ’ ASyvalov 
to  read  ’Avrwxeiov)  to  compel  the  Jews  to  depart  from 


JUPITER 


1099 


JUPITER 


the  laws  of  their  fathers,  ami  not  to  live  after  the  laws 
of  God;  and  to  pollute  also  the  Temple  in  Jerusalem, 
and  to  call  it  the  temple  of  Jupiter  Olympius  (Aide 
’OXv/tmov),  and  that  in  Gerizim,  of  Jupiter  the  defend- 
er of  strangers  (Sept.  Aide  Stviov  ; Yulg.  hospitaUs),  as 
they  did  desire  that  dwelt  in  the  place.”  Olympius  was 
a very  common  epithet  of  Zeus,  and  he  is  sometimes 
simply  called  ’OXvpmog  (Homer,  II.  xix,  108).  Olym- 
pia, in  Greece,  was  the  seat  of  the  temple  and  sacred 
grove  of  Zeus  Olympius,  and  it  was  here  that  the  fa- 
mous statue  of  gold  and  ivory,  the  work  of  Phidias,  was 
erected.  Caligula  attempted  to  have  this  statue  re- 
moved to  Rome,  and  it  was  only  preserved  in  its  place  by 
the  assurance  that  it  would  not  bear  removal  (Josephus, 
Ant.  xix,  1,  1).  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  as  related  by 
Atlienieus,  surpassed  all  other  kings  in  his  worship  and 
veneration  of  the  gods,  so  that  it  was  impossible  to 
count  the  number  of  the  statues  he  erected.  His  espe- 
cial favorite  was  Zens.  The  Olympian  Zeus  was  the 
national  god  of  the  Hellenic  race  (Thucydides,  iii,  14), 
as  well  as  the  supreme  ruler  of  the  heathen  world,  and, 
as  such,  formed  the  true  opposite  to  Jehovah,  who  had 
revealed  himself  as  the  God  of  Abraham.  Antiochus 
commenced,  in  B.C.  174,  the  completion  of  the  temple 
of  Zeus  Olympius  at  Athens  (Polybius,  lieliq.  xxvi,  10; 
Livy,  Ilist.  xii,  20),  and  associated  the  worship  of  Jupi- 
ter with  that  of  Apollo  at  Daphne,  erecting  a statue  to 
the  former  god  resembling  that  of  Phidias  at  Olympia 
(Amm.  Marcell,  xxii,  13, 1).  Games  were  celebrated  at 
Daphne  by  Antiochus,  of  which  there  is  a long  account 
in  Polybius  (Rdiq.  xxxi,  3)  and  Athenteus  (v,  5).  Coins 
also  were  struck  referring  to  the  god  and  the  games 
(Miounet,  v,  215  ; M tiller,  .1  ntiq.  A ntioch.  p.  62-64).  On 
the  coins  of  Elis,  the  wreath  of  wild  olive  (icdn^og)  dis- 
tinguishes Zeus  Olympius  from  the  Dodonajan  Zeus, 
who  has  an  oak  wreath. 

Antiochus,  after  compelling  the  Jews  to  call  the  Tem- 
ple of  Jerusalem  the  temple  of  Jupiter  Olympius,  built 
an  idol  altar  upon  the  altar  of  God.  Upon  this  altar 
swine  were  offered  every  day,  and  the  broth  of  their 
flesh  was  sprinkled  about  the  Temple  (l  Macc.  i,  46;  2 
Macc.  vi,  5;  Josephus,  Ant . xii,  5,  4;  xiii,  8,  2;  War,  i, 
1,2).  The  idol  altar  which  was  upon  the  altar  of  God 
( rov  fiiopuv  f/v  hr  i rov  Svoiaorrjpiov')  was  consider- 
ed by  the  Jews  to  be  the  “abomination  of  desolation” 
QiciXvypa  rqg  iptjpioaeiog,  1 Macc.  i,  54)  foretold  by 
Daniel  (xi,  31;  xii,  11)  and  mentioned  by  our  Lord 
(Matt,  xxiv,  15).  Many  interpretations  of  the  meaning 
of  this  prophecy  have  been  given.  See  Abomination 
of  Desolation. 

The  grove  of  Daphne  was  not  far  from  Antioch 
(Ao^io;  >)  ttouc  'Avnuxtiav,  2 Macc.  iv,  33;  Josephus, 
ir«?\  i,  12,  15),  and  at  this  city  Antiochus  Epiphanes 
erected  a temple  for  the  worship  of  Jupiter  Capitolinus. 
See  Daphne.  It  is  described  by  Livy  as  having  its 
walls  entirely  adorned  with  gold  (xii,  20).  To  Jupiter 
Capitolinus  the  Jews,  after  the  taking  of  Jerusalem,  in 
whatever  country  they  might  be,  were  compelled  by 
Vespasian  to  pay  two  drachma?,  as  they  used  to  pay  to 
the  Temple  at  Jerusalem  (Josephus,! r«r,vii, 6, 6;  Dion 
Cass,  lxvi,  7).  Hadrian,  after  the  second  revolt  of  the 
Jews,  erected  a temple  to  Jupiter  Capitolinus  in  the 
place  where  the  temple  of  God  formerly  stood  (Dion 
Cass.  Lxix,  12).  There  is,  probably,  reference  made  to 
Jupiter  Capitolinus  in  Dan.  xi,88,  alluding  to  Antiochus 
Epiphanes : “ But  in  his  estate  shall  he  worship  the 
god  of  forces”  (fortresses,  see  Gesenius, 

Thesaur.  s.  v.  p.  1011),  for  under  this  name  Jupi- 
ter was  worshipped  by  the  victorious  general  on  his  re- 
tnm  from  a campaign,  and  it  was  in  honor  of  Jupiter 
Capitolinus  that  he  celebrated  his  triumph.  Other  con- 
jectures have  been  made  relative  to  this  passage,  but 
the  opinion  of  Gesenius  seems  most  probable.  See  Ma- 
uzzim. 

In  the  passage  from  2 Macc.  above  quoted  a temple 
was  also  ordered  to  be  set  up  to  Zeus  Xenius  on  Mount 
Gerizim.  Josephus  gives  a different  account.  He  re- 


lates that  the  Samaritans,  who,  when  it  pleased  them, 
denied  that  they  were  of  the  kindred  of  the  Jews,  wrote 
to  Antiochus,  the  god  (3foc  on  coins)  Epiphanes,  beg- 
ging him  to  allow  the  temple  on  Mount  Gerizim,  which 
had  no  name  (avuivvpov  i tpov;  comp.  “Ye  worship  ve 
know  not  what,"  John  iv,  22),  to  be  called  the  temple 
of  Jupiter  Hellenius  (.4«t.  xii,  5,  5).  This  petition  is 
said  to  have  been  granted.  The  epithet  Shnog  is  given 
to  Zeus  as  the  supporter  of  hospitality  and  the  friend  of 
strangers  (Plutarch,  A motor.  20;  Xenopli.  A nab.  iii,  2, 
4 ; X irgU,  sEneid,  i,  735,  etc.),  and  it  is  explained  in  2 
Macc.  by  the  clause  “ as  they  did  desire  (Greek  KaSug 
irvyxavov , as  they  were  ; Vulg.  pront  erant  hi,  [as  they 
were))  who  dwelt  in  the  place.”  Ewald  supposes  that 
Jupiter  was  so  called  on  account  of  the  hospitable  dis- 
position of  the  Samaritans  ( Geschichte , iv,  339,  note), 
while  Jahn  suggests  that  it  was  because  the  Samaritans, 
in  their  letter  to  Antiochus  Epiphanes,  said  that  they 
were  strangers  in  that  country  ( Hebrew  Commonwealth, 
i,  319);  Grotius  says  because  the  dwellers  of  the  place 
were  pilgrims  from  the  regions  of  Mysia  and  Mesopo- 
tamia, specially  referring  to  their  idolatrous  practices  (2 
Kings  xvii,  24  sq.). 

2.  The  appearance  of  the  gods  upon  earth  was  very 
commonly  believed  among  the  ancients.  Accordingly 
we  find  that  Jupiter  and  Mercury  are  said  to  have  wan- 
dered in  Phrygia,  and  to  have  been  entertained  by  Bau- 
cis and  Philemon  (Ovid,  Met.  viii,  611  sq.).  Hence  the 
people  of  Lycaonia,  as  recorded  in  Acts  (xiv,  11),  cried 
out,  “The  gods  have  come  down  to  us  in  the  likeness  of 
men;  and  they  called  Barnabas  Jupiter,  and  Paul  Mer- 
curius,  because  he  was  the  chief  speaker.”  Barnabas 
was  probably  identified  with  Jupiter  not  only  because 
Jupiter  and  Mercury  were  companions  (Ovid.  Fast,  v, 
495),  but  because  his  personal  appearance  was  majestic 
(Chrysostom,  Horn,  xxx ; Alford,  on  Acts  xiv,  12;  comp. 
2 Cor.  x,  1, 10).  Paul  was  identified  with  Mercury  as 
the  speaker,  for  this  god  was  the  god  of  eloquence 
(Horace,  lib.  i,  od.  x,  5,  etc.).  The  temple  of  Jupiter  at 
Lystra  appears  to  have  been  outside  the  gates  (7-01';  Atig 
too  i,i'Tog  wpo  rqg  7roXeujg,  Acts  xiv,  13),  as  was  fre- 
quently the  custom  (Strabo,  xiv,  4;  Herod,  i,  26),  and 
the  priest  being  summoned,  oxen  and  garlands  were 
brought,  in  order  to  do  sacrifice  with  the  people  to  Paul 
and  Barnabas,  who,  tilled  with  horror,  restrained  the 
people  with  great  difficulty.  It  is  well  known  that  oxen 
were  wont  to  be  sacrificed  to  Jupiter  (Homer,  II.  ii,  402 ; 
Virgil,  ^En.  iii,  21 ; ix.  627;  Xenoph.  Cyrop.  vii,  3,  11, 
etc.).  According  to  the  interpretation  of  others,  how- 
ever, the  sacrifice  was  about  to  be  offered  before  the 
doors  of  the  house  where  the  apostles  were  (tVi  Tore  iri  - 
Xuivag).  Alford  ( Comment . ad  loc.)  denies  that  there  is 
any  ellipsis  of  rou  vaov  in  the  phrase  \epevg  too  A tog  : 
his  references,  however,  do  not  sustain  his  position ; for 
Z tvg  7rp07rvXwvog  would  not  necessarily  be  irpb  rijg  ttc- 
\twc,  but  merely  the  tidelary  deity  of  a private  mansion. 


Head  of  Jupiter  Olympius. 


3.  The  word  E vlia  (fair  or  fine  weather)  is  derived 
from  ev  and  Aia.  Jupiter,  as  lord  of  heaven,  had  power 


1100 


JUS  DEVOLUTUM 


JUKE  D1VINO 

over  all  the  changes  of  the  weather.  The  Latins  even 
used  his  name  to  signify  the  air— sub  Dio  (Horace,  lib. 
ii,  od.  iii,  *23),  sub  Jove  frigido  (Horace,  lib.  i,  od.  i,  25, 
etc. ; comp,  “the  image  which  fell  down  from  Jupiter,” 
A,  Vers. ; icai  rov  ctontrovg,  Acts  xix,  35).  The  word 
fof'/n  occurs  in  Matt  xvi,  2,  and  in  Ecclus.  iii.  15.  (For 
a full  account  of  Jupiter  and  Zeus,  see  Smith’s  Diet.  of 
Biography,  s.  v. ; and  for  a list  of  the  epithets  applied 
to  this  god,  see  Rawlinson,  Herod,  vol.  i,  Appendix,  p. 
G*0.) 

Jure  Divino,  an  expression  meaning  11  by  divine 
right”  used  in  counection  with  the  question  of  the  source 
of  the  ministerial  authority.  They  who  claim  the  “jus 
divinum”  for  that  authority  contend  that  the  episcopal 
discipline  and  orders,  having  issued  immediately  from 
the  authority  of  God,  are  the  exclusive  channel  through 
which  holy  ordinances  can  be  lawfully  or  efficaciously 
exercised.  Others,  again  (who  consequently  relinquish 
the  jure-divino  claim),  while  they  maintain  that  the 
episcopal  regimen  is  agreeable  to  the  will  of  Christ  and 
the  practice  of  his  apostles,  do  not  find  a warrant  for 
holding  the  above  exclusive  views,  nor  for  asserting  the 
utter  invalidity,  while  they  still  admit  the  irregularity 
of  any  other  ministrations.  In  their  opinion,  the  claims 
of  a Christian  ministry  rest  not  on  any  unbroken  suc- 
cession, but  on  the  basis  of  the  divinely  sanctioned  insti- 
tution of  a Christian  Church.  The  authority,  there- 
fore, with  which  a Christian  minister  is  invested  they 
consider  to  be  derived  from  Christ  only  by  virtue  of  the 
sanction  given  by  him  to  Christian  communities;  and 
they  hold  that  it  comes  direct  from  the  Church  in  whose 
name  and  behalf  he  acts  as  its  representative,  and  just 
to  that  extent  to  which  it  has  empowered  and  directed 
him  to  act.  They  consider  that  the  system  whicft  makes 
the  sacramental  virtue  of  holy  orders  inherent  indefea- 
sible in  each  individual  minister  detracts  from  the 
claims  of  the  Church,  makes  the  Church  a sort  of  ap- 
pendage to  the  priesthood,  and,  in  fact,  confounds  the 
Church  with  the  clergy,  as  if  the  spiritual  community 
consisted  only  of  its  officers.— Eden,  Eccles.  Dictionary, 
s.  v.  See  Succession. 

Jurieu,  Pierre,  an  eminent  French  Protestant  the- 
ologian, was  born  at  Mer,  in  the  diocese  of  Blois,  in  1637. 
lie  was  the  son  of  a Protestant  minister,  and  nephew  of 
the  celebrated  Iii  vet  and  Du  Moulin.  He  possessed  un- 
common talents,  and  when  barely  nineteen  received  the 
master’s  degree,  and  after  travelling  in  Holland  and 
England,  returned  to  his  country  to  succeed  his  father  in 
his  pastoral  office.  His  reputation  for  learning  in  1G74 
obtained  for  him  the  situation  of  professor  of  theology 
ami  the  Hebrew  language  in  the  Huguenot  seminary  at 
Sedan.  V hen  in  1681  the  Protestants  were  deprived  by 
Louis  XIV  of  the  permission  to  give  public  instruction 
in  that  town,  he  retired  to  Kouen,  and  from  thence  went 
to  Kotterdam,  where  he  was  appointed  professor  of the- 
olog„y.  In  that  city  the  ardor  of  his  zeal  soon  drew  him 
into  controversy  with  Baylc,  Basnage,  and  Saurin,  in 
the  heat  of  which  he  manifested  the  same  rancor  which 
unfortunately  disgraces  most  of  his  polemical  writings. 
He  allowed  himself  likewise  to  fall  into  various  errors 
by  too  much  indulging  a naturally  lively  imagination  in 
the  interpretation  of  prophecy.  In  his  Commentary  on 
the  Apocalypse  he  even  predicted  the  establishment  of 
1 rotestantism  in  France  during  the  year  1G86.  Those 
who  differed  from  him  in  opinion,  however  high  their 
character  for  learning  and  piety,  lie  treated  with  a most 
unbecoming  severity.  Grotius  and  llammond,  perhaps 
the  two  greatest  theologians  of  their  age,  because  tliev 
diflered  from  him  on  the  subject  of  the  Antichrist  pre- 
dicted m the  book  of  Kevelation,  lie  styles  “the  dis- 
grace ot  the  Beformed  Church,  and  even  of  Christian- 
Uv.”  The  same  spirit  is  manifested  in  his  well-known 
controversy  with  the  great  Bossuet,  whom  lie  does  not 
scruple  to  accuse  of  falsehood  and  dishonesty,  though, 
on  the  other  hand,  it  must  be  allowed  that  the  recrimi: 
nations  of  this  celebrated  defender  of  the  Clmreh  of 
Lome,  if  more  l*ohtely  expressed,  are  equallv  severe  and 


destitute  of  truth  ; the  great  object  of  Bossnet  being,  it 
would  appear,  to  charge  his  antagonist  with  holding  the 
heretical  opinions  of  the  Socinians  ( Bossuet,  Hist,  des  Va- 
riations, i v,  64 ; v,  23G-238).  With  all  these  defects,  J u- 
rieu  stands  deservedly  high  as  a controversialist.  His 
learning  was  most  profound ; he  is  generally  exact  in  the 
citation  of  his  authorities,  and  he  had  a special  talent  in 
discovering  the  weak  point  in  the  cause  of  his  antago- 
nists. In  respeet  of  style  and  eloquence  he  is  immeas- 
urably behind  Bossuet,  but  he  is  at  least  his  equal  in 
polemical  talent,  and  by  some  is  considered  his  superior 
in  erudition.  All  of  his  writings  are  held  in  esteem  by 
theologians  of  every  shade  as  a storehouse  of  great  re- 
search. Jurieu’s  private  life  was  becoming  that  of  a 
Christian  minister;  he  was  charitable  to  the  poor  al- 
most beyond  his  means,  and  employed  his  influence 
abroad  in  alleviating  the  sufferings  of  his  exiled  breth- 
ren. He  died  Jan.  11, 1713.  His  principal  works  are, 
Histoire  du  Calvinisme  et  du  Papisme  mise  cn  parallele, 
etc.  (Kotterdam,  1682, 2 vols.  12mo;  2d  edit.,  ibid.  1683, 
12mo): — Lettres  Pastorales  (Rotterdam,  1686-7,  3 vols. 
12mo)  : — Le  Vrai  Syst'eme  de  VEglise  (Dord.  1686, 8vo) : 
— I' Esprit  de  J/.  A rnauld  (Deventer  [Rotterdam ],  1684, 
2 vols.  12mo):  — Prejnges  legitimes  contre  le  Papisme 
(Amst.  1 685, 8vo) : — Apologie  pour  VA  ccomplissement  des 
Propheties  (1687,  which  has  been  translated  into  En- 
glish, Loud.  1687,  2 parts,  8vo) : — La  Religion  des  Latitu- 
1 dimires  (Rotterd.  1696,  8vo) ; Histoire  des  Dogmes  et  des 
Cultes  (Amst.  1704, 12mo;  also  translated  into  English, 
Lond.  1705,  2 vols.)  : — La  politique  du  clerge  de  France 
(Amst.  1681,  12mo). — English  Cyclop.;  Herzog,  Real- 
Encylclop.  vii,  126  ; Hoefer,  Nouv.  Biog.  Generale,  xxvii, 
267  sq.  (J.H.W.) 

Jurisdiction  is  an  ecclesiastical  term  denoting  the 
power  and  authority  vested  in  a bishop,  by  virtue  of  the 
apostolical  commission,  of  governing  and  administering 
the  laws  of  the  Church  within  the  bounds  of  his  dio- 
cese. The  same  term  is  also  used  to  express  the  bounds 
within  which  a bishop  exercises  his  power,  i.  e.  his  dio- 
cese. To  define  this  power  of  the  ecclesiastic  properly 
from  that  of  civil  jurisdiction  has  led  to  no  little  discus- 
sion. Of  old  the  earl  and  bishop  sat  in  the  same  court. 
Afterwards  the  bishop  held  his  courts  by  himself,  though 
temporal  lords  sat  in  synod  with  bishops — “ the  one  to 
search  the  laws  of  the  land,  and  the  other  the  laws  of 
God.”  The  question  of  jurisdiction,  after  the  period  of 
the  Conqueror, was  often  agitated  between  the  pope  and 
sovereigns.  The  things,  the  latter  argued,  and  reason- 
ably, that  are  Caesar’s  belong  to  Caesar,  and  it  is  treason 
to  take  them  from  him ; the  things  that  are  God’s  be- 
long to  God,  and  it  is  impiety  to  take  them  from  him. 
The  Church  is  a free  society,  and  should  have  per- 
fect power  of  self-government  within  its  own  domain, 
and  a purely  spiritual  sentence  should  be  beyond  re- 
view by  a civil  court.  See  Investiture  ; Keys,  Pow- 
er of. 

J us  Asyli,  the  right  of  protection.  From  the  4th 
century,  the  privilege  of  asylum,  or  the  right  of  pro- 
tecting criminals,  was  possessed  by  Christian  churches 
and  altars.  This  privilege  had  belonged  to  sacred  places 
among  Hebrews,  Greeks,  and  Romans,  and  from  them  it 
may  have  been  adopted  lw  Christians.  It  seems  to  have 
been  first  introduced  into  the  Christian  Church  in  the 
time  of  Constantine;  but  the  right  was  subsequently 
much  circumscribed  by  various  restrictions,  as  it  was 
found  to  be  a serious  liinderance  to  the  administration 
of  justice.  Since  the  16th  century  the  privilege  has 
been  almost  entirely  abolished. — Farrar,  Eccles.  Did.  s. 
v.  See  Asylum. 

Jus  Devolutum  (devolved  right).  When,  in  the 
Established  Church  of  Scotland,  a patron  does  not  pre- 
sent to  a parish  within  six  months  after  the  commence-* 
ment  of  the  vacancy,  the  right  of  presentation  falls  to 
the  presbytery,  tanquam  jure  devoluto.  Still  further  to 
guard  against  abuse,  it  has  been  enacted  (act  1719,  c.  29) 
“that  if  any  patron  shall  present  any  person  to  a va- 
cant church  who  shall  not  be  qualified,  by  taking  and 


JUSHAB-IIHESED 


1101 


JUSTICE 


subscribing  the  said  oath  in  manner  aforesaid,  or  shall 
present  a person  to  any  vacancy  who  is  then  or  shall  be 
pastor  or  minister  of  any  other  church  or  parish,  or  any 
person  who  shall  not  accept  or  declare  his  willingness 
to  accept  of  the  presentation  and  charge  to  which  he  is 
presented  within  the  said  time,  such  presentation  shall 
not  be  accounted  any  interruption  of  the  course  of  time 
allowed  toAhe  patron  for  presenting ; but  the  jus  devo- 
lutnm  shall  take  place  as  if  no  such  presentation  had 
been  offered,  any  law  or  custom  to  the  contrary  not- 
withstanding.”— Eadie,  Ecclesiastical  Dictionary , s.  v. 
See  Patronage. 

J us  Exuviarum.  See  Spoliation. 

Jus  Gislii  or  Metatus.  See  Immunity. 

Ju'shab-he'sed  (Hebrew  Yushab'-Che'sed , 3'!?^ 
non,  returner  of  kindness;  Sept.  ’AiJOfSazod  v.  r.  ’A<ro- 
fizS ; Yul g.  Josubhesed),  the  last  named  of  the  sons  of 
Pcdaiah,  of  the  royal  line  of  Judah  (1  Chron.  iii,  20 ; see 
Strong’s  Harm,  and  Expos,  of  the  Gospels,  p.  17,  where  it 
is  shown  that  this  is  not  a son  of  Zerubbabel,  as  appears 
in  the  text,  which  immediately  adds  that  these  sons 
were  in  all  fire,  cither  meaning  merely  those  enumerated 
in  the  same  verse,  or  requiring  one  of  these  [prob.  the 
one  in  question,  since  it  lacks  the  distinctive  connecting 
particle  *1,  “and”]  to  be  regarded  as  another  name  for 
the  preceding,  inasmuch  as  at  least  six  sons  would  oth- 
erwise be  enumerated.  See  ver.  19).  B.C.  cir.  536. 

J us  primarum  precum.  See  Expectancy. 

Justel,  Christopher,  an  eminent  French  Protes- 
tant canonist,  was  born  at  Paris  in  1580.  He  became 
counsellor  and  secretary  to  the  king  of  France,  and  died 
in  1649.  He  is  said  to  have  been  one  of  the  most  learned 
men  of  the  Middle  Ages,  and,  according  to  Haag,  one  of 
those  whose  writings  throw  great  light  on  the  obscure 
parts  of  the  history  of  the  early  Church,  llis  works 
have  been  published  under  the  style  of  Bibliotheca  juris 
canonici  veteris,  in  duos  tomos  distribnta,  quorum  wins 
canonum  ecclesiasticorum  codices  antiquos,  turn  Greecos, 
turn  Latinos  complectitur  ; alter  vero  insiyniores  juris  ca- 
nonici  veteris  collectores  Greecos  exhibet,  ex  antiquis  codi- 
cibus  MSS.  Bibliothecae  Christophori  Justetti.  Opera  et 
studio  Gulielmi  Voelli , theoloeji  tic  socii  Sarbonici,  et  Jlen- 
rid  JusteUi,  Christophori  F.  (Paris,  1661,  2 vols.  fob). — 
Hoefer,  Noui\  Dior/.  Generate,  xxvii,  287. 

Justel,  Henry,  a French  Protestant  canonist.,  son 
of  Christopher  Justel  (q.  v.),  was  born  at  Paris  in  1620. 
He  succeeded  his  father  as  secretary  and  counsellor  to 
king  Henry  IV.  lie  appears  to  have  foreseen  the  com- 
ing revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes  (1685),  and  went 
to  London  in  1681.  He  was  there  appointed  librarian 
of  St.  Janies,  and  retained  that  situation  until  his  death, 
Sept.  24, 1693.  He  had  sent  to  the  University  of  Ox- 
ford, by  his  friend  Dr.  llickes,  the  original  Greek  MS. 
of  the  Canones  Ecclesice  universalis,  and  received  in  re- 
turn from  that  institution  the  degree  of  LL.D.  in  1675. 
He  was  a friend  of  Locke  and  Leibnitz,  and  corresponded 
with  most  of  the  learned  men  of  his  day,  by  all  of  whom 
he  was  highly  esteemed.  His  principal  work  is  his  edi- 
tion of  Christopher  Just  el’s  (see  above)  Bibliotheca  ju- 
ris canonici  veteris.  See  Chauffcpie,  Nonv.  Diet..  Histor . 
et  Crit.;  Dupin,  Bibliotheca  ties  A uteurs  Eccles. — Hoefer, 
Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvii,  289. 

Justi,  Karl  Wilhelm,  a German  Protestant  theo- 
logian, was  born  at  Marburg,  January  14, 1767.  He  was 
educated  at  Jena,  and  became  a private  tutor  at  Metzlar, 
whence  he  removed  to  Marburg  as  a preacher  in  1790. 
In  1793  he  was  chosen  professor  of  philosophy  in  the 
university.  In  1801  he  was  appointed  archdeacon ; soon 
after,  superintendent  and  consistorialrath:  in  1814  was 
made  oberpfarrer,  and  in  1822  professor  of  theology.  He 
died  Aug.  7, 1846.  Justi  devoted  himself  to  the  study 
of  O.  and  N.  T.  exegesis,  after  the  method  of  Eichhorn 
and  Herder.  He  was  a man  of  erudition,  taste,  and  lib- 
erality. The  Prophets  of  the  O.  T.  occupied  his  chief  I 


attention,  and  he  published  editions  of  several  books  of 
the  O.  Test.  Scriptures.  But  he  is  especially  noted  for 
the  three  following  works : Naiionalgesange  tier  Ilebriier 
(1803-1818,  3 vols.) : — an  enlarged  edition  of  Herder’s 
Geist  der  Hebrdischen  Poesie  (1829,  2 vols.)  : — Blumen 
althebrdischer  Dichtkunst  (1809,  2 vols.): — Zimitische 
llarfenklunge  (1829).  — Kitto,  Cycloptedia  of  Biblical 
Literature,  ii,  G99 ; Brbckhaus,  Conversations-Lex.  viii, 
566. 

Justice  (pNl,  righteousness,  as  an  iuternal  trait  of 
character;  13  BUIS,  judgment,  as  a judicial  act),  as  ap- 
plied to  men,  is  one  of  the  four  cardinal  virtues.  It  con- 
sists, according  to  Cicero  (De  Finibus,  lib.  v,  cap.  23),  in 
suo  caique  tidbuendo,  in  according  to  every  one  his  right. 
By  the  Pythagoreans,  and  also  by  Plato,  it  was  regarded 
as  including  all  human  virtue  or  duty.  The  word  right- 
eousness is  used  in  our  translation  of  the  Scriptures  in  a 
like  extensive  signification.  As  opposed  to  equity,  jus- 
tice (to  vo/ukuv)  meaus  doing  merely  what  positive  law 
requires, while  equity  (ro  iaou)  means  doing  what  is  fair 
and  right  in  the  circumstances  of  every  particular  case. 
Justice  is  not  founded  in  law,  as  Hobbes  and  others  hold, 
but  in  our  idea  of  what  is  right.  Laws  are  just  or  un- 
just in  so  far  as  they  do  or  do  not  conform  to  that  idea. 
Justice  may  be  distinguished  as  ethical,  economical,  and 
political.  The  first  consists  in  doing  justice  between 
man  and  man  as  men;  the  second,  in  doing  justice  be- 
tween the  members  of  a family  or  household ; and  the 
third,  in  doing  justice  between  the  members  of  a com- 
munity or  commonwealth  (More,  Enchiridion  Ethicum; 
Grove,  Moral  Philosophy).  Dr.  Watts  gives  the  follow- 
ing rules  respecting  justice : “ 1.  It  is  just  that  we  honor, 
reverence,  and  respect  those  who  arc  superiors  in  any 
kind  (Eph.  vi,  1, 3 ; 1 Pet.  ii,  17 ; 1 Tim.  v,  47).  2.  That 
we  show  particular  kindness  to  near  relations  (Prov.  xvii, 
17).  3.  That  we  love  those  who  love  us,  and  show  grat- 
itude to  those  who  have  done  us  good  (Gal.  iv,  15).  4. 

That  we  pay  the  full  due  to  those  whom  we  bargain  or 
deal  with  (Rom.  xiii ; Dent,  xxiv,  14).  5.  That  we  help 
onr  fellow-creatures  in  cases  of  great  necessity  (Exod. 
xxii,  4).  6.  Reparation  to  those  whom  we  have  wilfully 

injured”  (Watts,  Sermons,  serm.  xxiv,  xxvi,  vol.  ii).  See 
Wollaston,  Religion  of  Nature,  p.  137, 141 ; Jay,  Sermons, 
ii,  131. 

Justice  of  God  is  that  perfection  whereby  he  is  in- 
finitely righteous,  both  in  himself  and  in  all  his  proceed- 
ings. Mr.  Byland  dcfiucs  it  thus : “ The  ardent  inclina- 
tion of  his  will  to  prescribe  equal  laws  as  the  supreme 
governor,  and  to  dispense  equal  rewards  and  punish- 
ments as  the  supreme  judge”  (Rev.  xvi,  5 ; Psa.  cxlv,  7 ; 
xcvii,  1,2).  This  attribute  of  the  Supreme  Being  is  the 
necessary  result  of  the  divine  holiness,  as  exhibited  in 
all  his  external  relations  to  intelligent  -creatures.  As 
holiness,  in  relation  to  God,  is  subjective,  declaring  his 
perfect  purity,  justice  is  objective,  exhibiting  his  oppo- 
sition to  sin  as  the  transgression  of  his  law.  (These  two 
aspects  are  exactly  exhibited  by  the  two  Hebrew  terms 
above.)  Divine  j ustice  is  distinguished  as  legislative,  and 
rectoral  or  distributive.  Legislative  j ustice  must  approve 
and  require  that  rational  creatures  conform  their  inter- 
nal and  external  acts  to  the  dictates  of  the  moral  law, 
which,  cither  by  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  the 
conscience  or  by  direct  revelation,  has  been  made  known  t 
to  all  men.  Rectoral  or  distributive  justice  is  God’s  deal- 
ing with  his  accountable  creatures  according  to  the  sanc- 
tions of  his  law,  rewarding  or  punishing  them  according 
to  their  deserts  (Psa.  Ixxxix,  14).  The  latter  is  again 
distinguished  into  remunerative  and  punitive  justice. 
Remunerative  justice  is  a distribution  of  rewards,  the 
rule  of  which  is  not  the  merit  of  the  creature,  but  God’s 
own  gracious  promise  (James  i.  12 ; 2 Tim.  iv,  8).  Puni- 
tive or  vindictive  justice  is  the  infliction  of  punishment 
for  any  sin  committed  by  men  (2  Thess.  i,  6).  That  God 

I will  not  let  sin  go  unpunished  is  evident:  1.  From  the 
word  of  God  (Exod.  xxxiv,  6,7;  Numb,  xiv,  18;  Nell, 
j,  3) ; 2.  From  the  nature  of  God  (Isa.  i,  13, 14 ; Psa.  v, 


JUSTICE  1102  JUSTIFICATION 


5,  G;  Heb.  xii,  29);  3.  From  sin  being  punished  in  Christ, 
the  surety  of  his  people  (1  Fet.  iii,  18);  4.  From  all  the 
various  natural  evils  which  men  bear  in  the  present 
state.  The  use  we  should  make  of  this  doctrine  is  this : 
1.  We  should  learn  the  dreadful  nature  of  sin,  and  the 
inevitable  ruin  of  impenitent  sinners  (Fsa.  ix,  17).  2.  We 
should  highly  appreciate  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  whom 
justice  is  satisfied  (1  Fet.  iii,  18).*  3.  We  shotdd  imitate 
the  justice  of  God  by  cherishing  an  ardent  regard  to  the 
rights  of  God  and  to  the  rights  of  mankind.  4.  We 
should  abhor  all  sin,  as  it  strikes  directly  at  the  justice 
of  God.  5.  We  should  derive  comfort  from  the  consid- 
eration that  the  judge  of  all  the  earth  will  do  right  as 
regards  ourselves,  the  Church,  and  the  world  at  large 
(Fsa.  xcvii,  1, 2).  See  Hyland,  Contemp.  ii, 439 ; Witsius, 
Economy,  lib.  xi,  ch.  viii,  xi ; Owen,  On  the  J ustice  of  God ; 
Gill,  Body  of  Divinity,  i.  155,  8vo;  Elisha  Cole,  On  the 
Jtiyhteousness  of  God,-  Henderson’s  Buck,  s.  v. 

JUSTICE,  administration  of.  This  seems  to  have 
been  one  of  the  first  subjects  which  claimed  the  atten- 
tion of  the  great  lawgiver  of  the  Hebrews.  It  appears 
from  the  advice  of  Jethro  to  Moses  when  “ Israel  was 
encamped  at  the  Mount  of  God”  (Exod.  xviii,  13-24). 
When  Jethro  had  seen  how  constantly  and  laboriously 
Moses  was  occupied  in  “judging  between  one  and  an- 
other,” he  advised  him  to  make  some  other  provision  in 
relation  to  the  matter,  and  to  restrict  himself  to  the 
work  which  properly  belonged  to  him,  as  the  inspired 
teacher  and  leader  of  the  people.  This  was  according- 
ly done.  A civil  magistracy  was  created  in  a form 
adapted  to  the  existing  wants  of  the  people,  and  by 
reference  to  the  record  we  shall  find  how  fully  it  covers 
every  essential  point  in  the  case.  The  value  of  evi- 
dence in  conducting  trials;  the  principles  upon  which 
verdicts  should  be  rendered,  both  in  civil  and  criminal 
cases,  together  with  the  great  institution  of  trial  by 
jury,  are  all  found  in  greater  or  less  development  in  the  I 
statutes  and  ordinances  given  from  God  to  the  Hebrews. 

Their  courts  of  justice  were  of  various  grades,  some  ! 
known  as  high  courts  of  appeal,  and  others  so  simple 
and  multiplied  as  to  carry  the  administration  of  justice 
to  every  man's  door,  and  effectually  to  secure  the  parties 
against  that  ruinous  evil,  “the  law’s  delay.”  “Judges 
and  offices  shalt  thou  make  in  all  thy  gates.”  was  the 
command;  and  to  what  minute  subdivision  this  creation 
of  tribunals  was  carried  out,  we  sec  in  the  ordinance  di- 
recting that  there  should  be  “ rulers  over  thousands, 
rulers  over  hundreds,  rulers  over  fifties,  and  rulers  over 
tens,  who  should  judge  the  people  at  all  seasons.” 

'Hie  candidates  for  office  were  not  to  be  selected  from 
any  one  privileged  class.  They  were  taken  “out  of  all 
the  people.”  'They  were  required  to  be  well  known  for 
their  intellectual  and  moral  worth,  and  their  fitness  for 
the  station  to  which  they  were  chosen.  They  were  to  be 
“ able  men,  such  as  fear  God;  men  of  truth,  hating  cov- 
etousness;" “wise  men,  and  understanding,  and  known 
among  the  tribes;”  and  these  qualifications  being  not 
only  all-important,  but  all-sufficient,  none  others  "were  I 
required. 

With  a judiciary  constructed  after  this  manner,  jus-  I 
tice  could  be  administered  promptlv  and  freelv;  and,  on  1 
the  other  hand,  a remedy  was  provided  against  the  evils 
ot  hasty  decision,  which  could  not  fail  in  the  end  to  dis- 
cover and  maintain  the  right  of  the  case.  And  if  “ the 
best  laws  are  those  which  are  best  administered,”  we 
shall  find  the  ordinances  given  to  the  Hebrews  for  car- 
rying the  laws  of  the  land  into  effect  admirably  adapted 
to  their  end,  giving  equal  securitv  to  the  poor  and  to 
the  rich  against  violence  and  wrong.  Sec  Judge ■ Tri- 
al. (lC.dc  F.)  ’ 

Justification  (some  form  of  the  verbs  p“t2.  Cmm- 
ow),  a forensic  term  equivalent  to  acquittal,  and  opposed 
to  condemnation : in  an  apologetic  sense  it  is  often  sv- 

vMim,ion  ” fred"8  W"- 

L Dogmatic  Slahme,,!.  - This  torn.,  in  theological  | 


1 usage,  is  employed  to  designate  the  judicial  act  of  God 
by  which  he  pardons  all  the  sins  of  the  sinner  who  be- 
lieves in  Christ,  receiving  him  into  favor,  and  regarding 
him  as  relatively  righteous,  notwithstanding  his  past 
actual  unrighteousness.  Hence  justification,  and  the  re- 
mission or  forgiveness  of  sin,  relate  to  one  and  the  same 
act  of  God,  to  one  and  the  same  privilege  of  his  believ- 
ing people  (Acts  xiii,  38,  39 ; Rom.  iv,  5, 8).  So,  also, 
“the  justification  of  the  ungodly,”  the  “covering  of 
sins,”  “not  visiting  for  sin,”  “not  remembering  sin,”  and 
! “ imputing  not  inquity,”  mean  to  pardon  sin  and  to  treat 
I with  favor,  and  express  substantially  the  same  thing 
which  is  designated  by  “imputing  or  counting  faith  for 
righteousness.”  See  Pardon.  Justification,  then,  is  an 
act  of  God,  not  in  or  upon  man,  but  for  him  and  in  his 
favor;  an  act  which,  abstractly  considered,  respects  man 
only  as  its  object,  and  translates  him  into  another  rela- 
tive state ; while  sanctification  respects  man  as  its  sub- 
ject, and  is  a consequent  of  this  act  of  God,  and  insep- 
arably connected  with  it.  See  Regeneration. 

The  originating  cause  of  justification  is  the  free  grace 
and  spontaneous  love  of  God  towards  fallen  man  (Rom. 
i,  5 ; iii,  24 ; Tit.  ii,  1 1 ; iii,  4, 5).  Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  sole  meritorious  cause  of  our  justification,  inas- 
much as  it  is  the  result  of  his  atonement  for  ns.  The 
sacrificial  death  of  Christ  is  an  expedient  of  infinite 
wisdom,  by  which  the  full  claims  of  the  law  may  be  ad- 
mitted, and  yet  the  penalty  avoided,  because  a moral 
compensation  or  equivalent  has  been  provided  by  the 
sufferings  of  him  who  died  in  the  sinner’s  stead  (Eph.  i, 
7 ; Col.  i,  14 ; Rev.  v,  9).  Thus,  while  it  appears  that 
our  justification  is,  in  its  origin,  an  act  of  the  highest 
grace,  it  is  also,  in  its  mode,  an  act  most  perfectly  con- 
sistent with  God’s  essential  righteousness,  and  demon- 
strative of  his  inviolable  justice.  It  proceeds  not  on  the 
principle  of  abolishing  the  law  or  its  penalty,  for  that 
would  have  implied  that  the  law  was  unduly  rigorous 
either  in  its  precepts  or  in  its  sanctions.  See  Atone- 
ment. 

Faith  is  the  instrumental  cause  of  justification,  pres- 
ent faith  in  him  who  is  able  to  save,  faith  actually  ex- 
isting and  exercised.  See  Faith.  The  atonement  of 
Jesus  is  not  accepted  for  us,  to  our  individual  justifica- 
tion, until  we  individually  believe,  nor  after  we  cease  to 
live  by  faith  in  him.  See  Imputation. 

The  immediate  results  of  justification  are  the  restora- 
tion of  amity  and  intercourse  between  the  pardoned  sin- 
ner and  the  pardoning  God  (Rom.  v,  1 ; James  ii,  23) ; 
the  adoption  of  the  persons  justified  into  the  family  of 
God,  and  their  consequent  right  to  eternal  life  (Rom. 
viii,  17) ; and  the  indwelling  of  the  Holy  Spirit  (Acts  ii 
38;  Gal.  iii,  14;  iv,  G),  producing  tranquillity  of  con- 
science (Rom.  viii,  15, 16),  power  over  sin  (Rom.  viii,  1), 
and  a joyous  hope  of  heaven  (Rom.  xv,  13 ; Gal.  v,  3), 
See  Spirit,  Fruits  of. 

We  must  not  forget  that  the  justification  of  a sinner 
does  not  in  the  least  degree  alter  or  diminish  the  evil 
nature  and  desert  of  siu.  Though  by  an  act  of  divine 
clemency  the  penalty  is  remitted,  and  the  obligation  to 
suffer  that  penalty  is  dissolved,  still  it  is  naturally  due, 
though  graciously  remitted.  Hence  appear  the  propri- 
ety and  duty  of  continuing  to  confess  and  lament  even 
pardoned  sin  with  a lowly  and  contrite  heart  (Ezek.  xvi, 
62). — Watson,  Theoloy.  Diet.  s.  v.  See  Penitence. 

II.  History  of  the  jtoetrine. — 1.  The  early  Church  Fa- 
thers and  the  Latin  Church. — Ecclesiastical  science,  from 
the  beginning  of  its  development,  occupied  itself  with 
a discussion  on  the  relation  of  faith  to  knowledge; 
but  even  those  who  attributed  the  greatest  importance 
to  the  latter  recognised  faith  as  the  foundation.  A 
merely  logical  division  into  subjective  and  objective 
faith,  and  an  intimation  of  a distinction  between  a his- 
toric and  a rational  faith  (in  Clemens  Alexandrinus, 
Stromat.  ii,  454;  Augustine,  De  Trinitate,  xiii,  2),  were 
of  little  consequence.  Two  conceptions  became  prevail- 
ing: Faith  as  a general  religious  conviction,  particular- 
ly as  confidence  in  God,  and  the  acceptance  of  the  en- 


JUSTIFICATION" 


1103 


J U STIFIC  ATION" 


tire  doctrine  of  the  Church,  Jides  catholica.  The  for- 
mula that  faith  alone  without  the  works  justifies  is 
found  in  the  full  Pauline  sense  in  Clemens  Iiomanus  (1 
ad  Corinthios,  c.  32),  and  is  sometimes  used  by  Augus- 
tine polemically  in  order  to  defend  the  freedom  of  grace 
and  the  priority  of  faith.  More  generally  it  is  used  as 
an  argument  against  the  necessity  of  the  Jewish  law 
(Irenaius,  iv,  25;  Tertullian,  adv.  Marcell,  v,  3).  The 
oecumenical  synods  were  instrumental  in  gradually  giv- 
ing to  the  conception  of  Jides  catholica  the  new  sense 
that  salvation  could  be  found  only  by  adherence  to  ec- 
clesiastical orthodoxy.  But  as  a mere  acceptance  was 
possible  without  a really  Christian  sentiment,  and  as 
the  Pauline  doctrine  was  misused  by  heretics  in  an  an- 
tiuomian  sense,  it  -was  demanded  that  faith  be  proved 
by  works.  Church  discipline  developed  this  idea  with 
regard  to  the  sins  of  the  faithful,  so  as  to  demand  a sat- 
isfaction through  penances  and  good  works  (Augustine, 
Serm.  151,  12).  It  became,  therefore,  the  doctrine  of 
the  Church  that  such  faith  alone  works  salvation  as 
shows  itself  in  acts  of  charity,  while  to  merely  external 
works  faith  or  charity  is  opposed  as  something  ac- 
cessory. Pelagius  assumed  only  a relative  distinction 
between  naturally  good  works  and  the  good  works  that 
proceed  from  faith ; in  opposition  to  which  Augustine 
insisted  that  the  difference  is  absolute,  and  that  with- 
out faith  no  good  works  at  all  arc  possible.  As  salva- 
tion was  thought  to  be  conditioned  by  works  also,  it 
was,  even  when  it  was  represented  as  being  merely  an 
act  of  God,  identified  with  sanctification.  The  impor- 
tance attributed  to  abstention  created  gradually  a dis- 
tinction between  commands  and  advices,  and  the  belief 
that  through  the  fulfilment  of  the  latter  a virtue  greater 
than  required  would  arise  (Hernias.  Pastor  Simil.  iii,  5, 
3 ; Origen,  In  Epistolam  ad  Horn,  iii ; Ambrose,  De  Vi- 
duis,  iv,  508). 

2.  The  Greek  Church.  — Little  discussion  and  little 
controversy  has  occurred  on  this  doctrine  in  the  Greek 
Church.  Faith  and  works  together  are  regarded  as  the 
conditions  of  salvation.  The  words  of  James  are  refer- 
red to  first,  yet  faith  is  declared  to  be  the  stock  from 
which  the  good  works  come  as  the  fruits.  The  descrip- 
tion of  faith  proceeds  from  the  definition  in  the  Epistle 
to  the  Hebrews  to  the  acceptance  of  the  entire  ecclesi- 
astical tradition.  Man  is  said  to  participate  in  the 
merit  of  the  Mediator  not  only  through  faith,  but  also 
through  good  works.  Among  the  latter  are  comprised 
the  fulfilment  of  the  commandments  of  God  and  of  the 
Church,  and,  in  particular,  prayers,  fastings,  pilgrimages, 
and  monastic  life.  They  are  considered  useful  and  nec- 
essary not  only  as  a means  of  promoting  sanctification, 
but  also  as  penances  and  satisfaction. 

3.  Doctrine  of'  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  during  the 
Middle  Ages. — The  Scholastics  regarded  faith  as  an  ac- 
ceptance of  the  supersensual  as  far  as  it  belongs  to  re- 
ligion, differing  both  from  intuition  and  from  knowl- 
edge; and  although  essentially  of  a theoretic  character, 
yet  conditioned  by  the  consent  of  the  will,  which,  how- 
ever, in  the  description  of  faith,  is  reduced  to  a minimum. 
Originally  only  God  is  an  object  of  faith,  but  mediately 
also  the  holy  Scriptures;  as  a summary  of  the  Biblical 
doctrines,  the  Apostles’  Creed,  and,  as  its  explication, 
the  entire  doctrine  of  the  Homan  Catholic  Church.  As 
an  accurate  knowledge  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Church 
cannot  be  expected  from  every  one,  the  subjective  dis- 
tinction was  made  between  Jides  implicita  and  explicita  ; 
the  former  sufficient  for  the  people,  vet  with  the  demand 
of  a developed  belief  in  some  chief  articles.  There  was, 
however,  a difference  of  opinion  on  what  these  articles 
were,  and  even  Thomas  Aquinas  wavered  in  his  views. 
Faith  may,  even  upon  earth,  partly  become  a science, 
and  appears  in  this  respect  only  as  the  popular  form  of 
religion.  It  is  a condition  of  salvation,  but  becomes  a 
virtue  only  when  love,  as  animating  principle  [forma], 
pervades  it  [tides  formata]  ; with  a mere  faith  [infor- 
mis]  one  may  be  damned.  Theses  formata  includes 
the  necessity  of  the  good  works  for  salvation,  but  they 


must  be  founded  in  pious  sentiment.  All  other  works, 
not  proceeding  from  faith,  are  dead,  though  not  entirely 
useless.  The  necessity  of  good  works  is  fully  carried 
out  only  by  the  inculcation  of  penance  as  satisfactiones, 
but  with  constant  reference  to  a union  of  the  soul  with 
Christ,  and  the  moral  effect  of  the  good  works.  Justi- 
fication, according  to  Thomas  Aquinas,  is  a movement 
from  the  state  of  injustice  into  the  state  of  justice,  in 
which  the  remission  of  sins  is  the  main  point,  though  it 
is  conditioned  by  an  infusion  of  grace  which  actually 
justifies  men.  As  an  act  of  God  which  establishes  in 
man  a new  state  [habitus],  it  is  accomplished  in  a mo- 
ment. Among  the  people  the  Pelagian  views  prevail- 
ed, that  man,  by  merely  outward  works,  had  to  gain  his 
salvation,  and  the  Church  became,  especially  through 
the  traffic  in  indulgences,  a prey  to  the  immoral  and 
insipid  worship  of  ceremonies.  In  opposition  to  this 
corruption,  many  of  the  pious  Mystics  pointed  to  the 
Pauline  doctrine  of  faith. 

4.  Doctrine  of  the  Reformers  of  the  1 6th  Century  and 
the  old  Protestant  Dogmatics. — The  Reformation  of  the 
lGth  century  renewed  the  Pauline  doctrine  of  justifica- 
tion by  faith  alone,  emphasizing,  in  the  sense  of  Augus- 
tine, the  entire  helplessness  of  man,  and  made  it  the 
fundamental  doctrine  of  the  Reformed  Church.  This 
faith  is  represented  as  not  merely  an  acceptance  of  his- 
toric facts,  but  is  distinguished  as  fides  specialis  from 
the  general  religious  conviction,  arising  amidst  the  ter-, 
rors  of  conscience,  and  consisting  in  an  entire  despair  of 
one’s  own  merit  and  a confident  surrender  to  the  mercy 
of  Gad  in  the  atoning  death  of  Christ.  Worked  by  God, 
it  does  not  work  as  virtue  or  merit,  but  merely  through 
the  apprehension  of  the  merit  of  Christ.  Its  necessity 
lies  in  the  impossibility  of  becoming  reconciled  with  God 
through  one’s  own  power.  Hence  this  reconciliation  is 
impossible  through  good  works,  which  are  not  necessary 
for  salvation,  though  God  rewards  them,  according  to 
his  promise,  upon  earth  and  in  heaven  ; but,  as  a neces- 
sary consequence,  the  really  good  works  will  flow  forth 
from  faith  freely  and  copiously.  The  opinion  of  Ams- 
dorf,  that  good  works  are  an  obstacle  to  salvation,  was  re- 
garded as  an  unfortunate  expression,  which  may  be  taken 
in  a true  sense,  though  it  is  false  if  understood  in  a gen- 
eral sense.  As  man  is  unable  to  satisfy  the  law,  super- 
erogatory works  and  a satisfaction  through  one’s  own 
works  are  impossible.  Justification  through  love  is  im- 
possible, because  man  cannot  love  God  truly  amidst  the 
terrors  of  conscience.  Hence  justification  is  a divine 
judicial  act,  which,  through  the  apprehension  of  the  jus- 
tice of  Christ,  apprehended  in  faith,  accepts  the  sinner 
as  just,  though  lie  is  not  just.  This  strict  distinction 
between  justification  and  sanctification  wras  maintained 
on  the  one  hand  against  Scholasticism,  wrhich,  through 
its  Pelagian  tendencies,  seemed  to  offend  against  the 
honor  of  Christ,  and  to  be  unable  to  satisfy  conscience, 
and  on  the  other  hand  against  Osiandcr,  who  regarded 
justification  as  being  completed  only  in  sanctification. 
The  works  even  of  the  regenerated,  according  to  the 
natural  side,  were  regarded  by  the  Reformers  as  sins. 
The  Reformed  theology  in  general  agreed  w ith  the  doc- 
trine of  justification  as  stated  above,  yet  did  not  make 
it  to  the  same  extent  the  fundamental  doctrine  of  the 
whole  theology.  According  to  Calvin,  justification  and 
sanctification  took  place  at  the  same  time.  The  dog- 
matic writers  of  the  Lutheran  Church  distinguished  in 
faith  knowledge,  assent,  and  confidence,  assigning  the 
former  two  to  the  intellect,  the  latter  to  the  will.  From 
the  Jides  generalis  they  distinguished  the  justifying  faith 
(specialis  sen  salvifica),  and  rejected  the  division  into 
Jides  informis  et  formata.  As  a distinguishing  mark, 
they  demanded  from  a true  faith  that  it  be  efficient  in 
charity.  For  works  they  took  the  Decalogue  as  a rule; 
a certain  necessity  of  works  w'as  strictly  limited.  But, 
however  firmly  they  clung  in  general  to  the  conception 
of  justification  as  something  merely  external  (actus  fo- 
rensis)  and  foreign  (imputatio  justitiaa  Christi),  some 
dogmatic  writers  held  that  justification  had  really 


1104 


JUSTIN' 


JUSTIFICATION 


changed  something  in  man,  and  indeed  presupposed  it  as 
changed.  Hollaz  pronounced  this  doctrine  openly  and 
incautiously,  while  Quenstedt  designated  these  preced- 
ing acts  as  merely  preparatory  to  conversion. 

5.  Doctrine  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  since  the 
reformation. — The  Council  of  Trent,  in  order  to  make  a 
compromise  with  the  Pauline  formula,  recognised  faith 
as  the  beginning  and  the  foundation  of  justification,  but 
the  full  sense  which  Protestantism  found  in  it  was  re- 
jected. This  faith  is  the  general  belief  in  divine  reve- 
lation, though  in  transition  to  a special  faith,  yet  a mere 
knowledge  which  still  gives  room  to  mortal  sins.  Jus- 
titication  is  remission  of  sins  and  sanctification,  through 
an  infusion  of  the  divine  grace,  in  as  far  as  the  merit  of 
Chri.-it  is  not  merely  imputed,  but  communicated.  It  is 
given  through  grace,  hut  as  a permanent  state  it  grows 
through  the  merit  of  good  works  according  to  the  com- 
mandments of  God  and  the  Church,  through  which 
works  the  justified,  always  aided  by  the  grace  of  God  in 
Christ,  have  to  render  satisfaction  for  the  temporal  pun- 
ishment of  their  sins  and  to  deserve  salvation.  Not  all 
the  works  done  before  justification  are  sins,  and  to  the  jus- 
tified the  fulfilment  of  the  commandments  of  ( Jod  is  quite 
possible,  although  even  the  saints  still  commit  small,  ve- 
nial sins.  A further  development  of  this  doctrine  is  found 
in  the  writings  of  Bellarminc.  He  admits  faith  only 
as  files  (/entrails,  as  a matter  of  the  intellect,  yet  as  a 
consent,  not  a knowledge.  Though  only  the  first  among 
many  preparations  for  justification,  a certain  merit  is  as- 
cribed to  faith.  The  Council  of  Trent  had  rejected  the 
imputation  of  the  merits  of  Christ  only  as  the  exclusive 
ground  of  justification ; Bellarmine  rejected  it  altogether, 
lie  explicitly  proclaimed  the  necessity  of  good  works  for 
salvation,  though  only  a relative  salvation.  The  opera 
supereroyutionis,  which  were  not  mentioned  at  Trent, 
though  they  remained  unchanged  in  tradition  and  prac- 
tice, are  further  developed  by  Bellarminc.  According 
to  him,  they  go  beyond  nature,  are  not  destined  for  all, 
and  not  commanded  under  penalties. 

6.  Modern  Protestantism. — Soc  in  us  denied  any  foreign 
imputation,  also  that  of  the  merit  of  Christ.  When  su- 
pra naturalism  in  general  declined,  the  points  of  differ- 
ence from  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  were  frequently 
lost  sight  of.  Kant  found  in  the  doctrine  of  justification 
the  relation  of  the  always  unsatisfactory  reality  of  our 
moral  development  to  the  future  perfection  recognised 
in  the  intuition  of  God.  De  Wette  declared  it  to  be  the 
highest  moral  confidence  which  is  founded  on  the  com- 
munion with  Christ,  and  turns  from  an  unhappy  past  to 
a better  future.  Modem  mystics  have  often  found  fault 
with  the  Protestant  doctrine  as  being  too  outward,  and 
approached  the  doctrine  of  the  Roman  Church.  The  He- 
gelian School  taught  that  justification  is  the  reception 
of  the  subject  into  the  spirit,  i.  e.  the  knowledge  of  the 
subject  of  bis  unity  with  the  absolute  spirit,  or,  accord- 
ing to  Strauss,  with  the  concrete  idea  of  mankind.  Ac- 
cording to  Sehleicrinaeher,  it  is  the  reception  into  the 
communion  of  life  with  both  the  archetypal  and  histor- 
ical ( ’lirist,  and  the  appropriation  of  his  perfection.  Jus- 
t ideation  and  sanctification  arc  to  him  only  different 
sides  of  the  carrying  out  of  the  same  divine  decree. 
Many  of  the  recent  dogmatic  writers  of  Germany  have 
again  proclaimed  this  doctrine  to  be  the  essential  princi- 
ple ol  Protestantism,  some  ( Dorner,  Das  I'rincip  unsertr 
Kirrhe,  Kiel,  1*41 ) taking  justificat  ion  in  the  sense  of  a 
new  personality  founded  in  Christ,  others  (llmidcsha- 
gen.  In  r deutseke  Protestantismus,  F rankft.  I S47)  in  the 
sense  that  God,  surveying  the  whole  future  development 
ol  the  principle  which  communion  with  Christ  estab- 
lished in  the  believer,  views  him  as  righteous.  One  of 
the  last  dogmatic  manuals  of  the  Reformed  Church 
(Schweizer,  ii,  523  sq.)  distinguishes  conversion  and 
sanctification  as  the  beginning  and  progress  of  a life  of 
salvation,  and  assigns  justification  to  the  former.  See 
Base,  Eeunyelisehe  Dogmatik  (Lcipzic,  1850),  p.310  sq.; 
C.  I\  Banr,  Lehrbuch  di  r christlicheu  Doymengeschichte 
(Stuttgai  .t,  1817)  • Halm,  Das  Rekenntniss  der  ecanyel- 


ischen  Kirchengesch  ichte  in  seinem  Verhaltniss  zu  dem  der 
Romischen  and  Griechischen. 

III.  Literature. — See,  for  Roman  Cath.  views,  Mohler, 
Symbolism,  cli.iii;  Willett,  Syn.  Pap.  viii,  G7  sq.;  Cramp, 
Text-book  of  Popery,  ch.  v;  Bossuet,  IPor^s,  vol.  i and  ii ; 
Stud,  und  Krit.  1807,  vol.  ii ; D’Aubigne,  Ilist.  Reforma- 
tion, vol.  ii ; Forbes,  Considerations,  i,  1 ; Nicene  Creed , 

i,  173;  Hughes,  irorAw,  i,  410.  For  Protestant  views, 
see  Buchanan,  Justification  (Edinb.  1867, 8vo;  reviewed 
at  length  in  Land.  Review,  Oct.  1867,  p.  179)  ; Brit,  and 
For.  Evany.  Rev.  Oct.  1867,  art.  vi;  Wesley,  HorA-s,  v, 
255;  vi,  106;  Calvin,  Instit.  vol.  ii;  Cunningham,  Re- 
formers, p.  402 ; Planck,  Hist.  Prot.  Theol.  (see  Index) ; 
Knapp,  Theology  (see  Index) ; Wardlaw,  System.  Theol- 
ogy, ii,  678  sq. ; Graves,  Works,  vol.  iv ; Monsell,  iv,  232, 
240 ; Waterland,  lUor&s,  vol.  vi ; T.  Goodwin,  Works  (see 
Index)  ; Wilson,  A postol.  Fathers  (see  Index) ; Marten- 
sen,  Dogmatics,  p.  390  sq. ; Fye  Smith,  Introd.  to  Theol. 
(see  Index);  Burnet,  On  the  39  Articles  (sec  Index); 
Carmicli,  Theol.  of  the  Scriptures,  vol.  ii ; Neander,  Prot. 
and  Cath.  p.  131-146;  Ch.  Doy.  ii,  66  sq.;  Planting  and 
Train,  of  Christian  Church,  vol.  ii ; Kiggcnbach,  in  the 
Stud,  und  Krit.  1863,  iv,  691 ; 1867,  i,  405,  ii,  294;  1868, 

ii,  201 ; North  Brit.  Review,  June,  1867,  p.  191  sq. ; Dr. 
Schaff,  Protestantism,  p.  54-57 ; Good  Words,  Jan.  1866; 
Heppe,  Dogmatics,  p.  392  ; Biblioth.  Sacra,  1863,  p.  615 ; 
Bibl.  Repos,  xi,  448;  Christ.  Review,  Oct.  1846;  Jahrb. 
deutsch.  Theol.  vii,  516  ; Ware,  ITor&s,  iii,  381 ; Journal 
of  Sac.  Lit.  xx i ; 1869,  iii,  545 ; Ch  ristian  Monthly,  1815, 
Jan.,  p.  102 ; Feb.,  p.  231 ; New  Englander  (see  Index); 
Hauck,  Theolog.  Jahresber.  Jan.  1869,  i,  59;  1867,  p. 
543;  Bull.  Theologigue,  i,  25,  41 ; Brit,  and  For.  Evany. 
Rev.  July,  1868,  p.  537 ; Brit,  and  For.  Rev.  Oct.  1868,  p. 
G83,  692;  Amer.  Presbyt.  Review,  Jan.  1867,  p.  69,  202  ; 
Evany.  Quart.  Rev.  Oct.  1869,  p.  48 ; British  Quart.  Rev. 
Jan.  1871,  p.  144;  Church  Rev.  Oct.  1870,  p.  444,  462; 
Zeitschr.  wissensch.  Theol.  1871,  iv. 

Justin,  surnamed  the  Philosopher,  or,  more  generally, 
the  Martyr,  of  whom  Eusebius  (Hist.  Eccles.  1.  iv,  c.  11) 
says  that  he  overshadowed  all  the  great  men  who  illu- 
minated the  2d  century  by  the  splendor  of  his  name, 
was  born  towards  the  close  of  the  apostolic  age,  that  is, 
the  beginning  of  the  2d  century.  He  was  the  son  of 
a wealthy  Greek,  Priscius,  who  had,  in  all  probabil- 
ity, come  to  reside  at  Flavia  Ncapolis  (erected  on  the 
site  of  the  ancient  Sicliem),  in  Samaria,  with  the  Ro- 
man colony  sent  by  Vespasian  to  the  city  that  bore  his 
name.  But  little  is  known  of  his  personal  history. 
From  one  of  his  works,  the  Dialogues  with  Tryphou  (c. 
2 sq.),we  learn  that  he  travelled  much  in  his  youth,  and 
studied  ardently  the  various  systems  of  philosophy  prev- 
alent in  his  day,  searching  after  some  knowledge  which 
should  satisfy  the  cravings  of  his  soul.  The  myths  and 
absurd  worship  of  the  heathen  had  failed  to  satisfy  the 
youthful  soul  longing  to  know  God  and  the  relations  of 
God  to  man,  and  in  turn  Stoic  and  Peripatetic,  Pytha- 
gorean and  Platonist,  were  examined  to  set  his  mind  at 
rest  upon  the  vital  question.  By  the  Stoic  he  was  told 
that,  in  philosophical  speculation,  the  subject  which  he 
seemed  to  consider  the  most  important  was  only  of  sub- 
ordinate rank.  A Peripatetic,  at  the  end  of  a few 
days,  informed  him  that  the  most  important  tiling  for 
him  to  attend  to  was  to  afford  the  philosophic  instructor 
security  for  his  tuition.  By  the  Pythagorean  he  was 
rejected  outright,  because  he  confessed  himself  ignorant 
of  music,  astronomy,  and  geometry,  which  that  school 
considered  a necessary  introduction  to  the  study  of  phi- 
losophy. and  so  he  turned  in  despair  to  the  Platonists, 
at  this  time  in  high  repute  in  the  place  in  which  Justin 
resided.  At  last  he  seemed  to  have  gained  the  haven 
of  peace : the  Platonic  doctrine  of  ideas  could  not  fail  to 
inspire  young  Justin  with  the  hope  that  he  “ should 
soon  have  the  intuition  of  God,”  for  is  not  this  the  aim 
of  Platonic  philosophy?  “Under  the  influence  of  this 
notion,”  he  relates  himself,  “it  occurred  to  me  that  I 
would  withdraw  to  some  solitary  place,  far  from  the  tur-' 
moil  of  the  world,  and  there,  in  perfect  self-collection, 


I 


JUSTIN  1105  JUSTIN 


give  myself  to  my  own  contemplations.  I chose  a spot 
by  the  sea-sicle.”  Whether  Justin  still  resided  at  this 
time  at  Flavia  Xeapolis— and  in  that  case  the  quiet  re- 
sort must  have  been  the  shores  of  the  Dead  Sea,  per- 
haps the  valley  of  the  Jordan,  north  of  this  sea  (Otto), 
or  on  some  unfrequented  spot  of  Lake  Genesareth — or 
whether,  as  seems  more  probable,  he  then  resided  at 
Ephesus,  is  a matter  of  dispute.  In  favor  of  Ephesus 
are  Schrbckh,  Tillemont,  Hilgenfeld,  Dorner,  etc.  But, 
be  the  name  of  the  place  Flavia  Neapolis  or  Ephesus,  it 
was  in  his  resort  by  the  shore  of  the  resounding  sea — 
attracted  to  it,  no  doubt,  chiefly  by  the  grandeur  of  the 
object  he  was  seeking  to  solve,  and  the  loveliness  of  the 
spot — that  we  find  him  one  day,  while  wrapped  up  in 
thought,  pacing  up  and  down  by  the  side  of  the  sea, 
which  moaned  in  melancholy  unison  with  his  reflections, 
accosted  by  a man  of  venerable  aspect,  sage  and  grave, 
and  soon  the  two  are  engaged  in  earnest  converse  on 
the  snbject  ever  uppermost  in  young  Justin’s  mind. 
Somewhat  enamored  of  the  Flatonic  philosophy,  he  ar- 
gues in  its  favor  with,  the  appositely  present  senior,  and 
contends  that  at  some  future  day  it  will  conduct  him 
into  that  nearer  acquaintance  with  God,  or,  in  the  Pla- 
tonists’  term,  afford  him  the  “ vision  of  divinity.”  But 
the  meek  old  man,  who  is  a Christian,  contends  that 
the  goal  which  he  is  seeking  to  gain  cannot  be  reached 
by  any  philosophical  school  or  by  unaided  mind  even 
of  the  highest  order ; the  fallacy  of  Plato  is  proved  in 
some  two  or  three  points  of  doctrine  belonging  to  that 
system,  and  finally  the  doubting  and  indocile  disciple  is 
visited  with  the  curt  and  not  gentle  apostrophe,  “ You 
are  a mere  dealer  in  words,  but  no  lover  of  action  and 
truth ; your  aim  is  not  to  be  a practiser  of  good,  but  a 
clever  disputant,  a cunning  sophist.”  Once  more  the 
inquiring  youth  is  baffled  in  his  attempt  to  lay  hold  of 
the  truth ; he  is  again  convinced  that  even  from  the  fore- 
most of  heathen  philosophers  he  cannot  obtain  the  pearl 
for  which  he  is  seeking  so  earnestly.  But  with  this  in- 
telligence there  comes  also  the  direction,  “ Search  the 
Scriptures;”  study  the  Hebrew  prophets;  men  who, 
guided  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  saw  and  revealed  the  truth, 
and  even  foretold  events  future  to  their  day ; read  the 
last  anil  heroic  words  of  the  disciples  of  him  who  came 
to  raise  a fallen  world,  and  to  restore  it  to  eternal  and 
imperishable  felicity.  “ Pray,”  ended  the  venerable 
Christian,  l-  that  the  gates  of  light  may  be  opened  to 
thee,  for  none  can  perceive  and  comprehend  these  things 
except  God  and  his  Christ  grant  them  understanding.” 
Justin  was  impressed;  he  had  often  heard  the  Plato- 
nists  calumniate  the  Christians,  but  he  had  always  dis- 
credited the  statements.  He  had  frequently  observed 
the  tranquillity  and  fortitude  with  Avhich  these  follow- 
ers of  Jesus  encountered  death  and  all  other  evils  which 
appear  terrible  to  man,  and  he  could  never  condemn  as 
profligates  those  who  could  so  patiently  endure.  He 
had  long  believed  them  innocent  of  the  crimes  imputed 
to  these  consistent  martyrs.  He  was  now  prepared  to 
think  that  they  held  the  truth.  He  reflected  on  the 
words  of  the  venerable  stranger,  and  was  convinced  that 
they  inculcated  the  “ only  safe  and  useful  philosophy.” 
From  this  time  (the  exact  date  is  doubtful ; the  Bol- 
landists  place  it  in  A.D.  119;  it  is  generally  believed, 
with  Cave,  Tillemont,  Ceillier,  and  others,  that  it  occur- 
red in  A.D.  133)  his  personal  history  becomes  obscure, 
as  he  has  but  little  to  relate  of  himself  hereafter,  and  as 
from  other  sources  we  cannot  gather  much  on  which  we 
can  depend.  Certain  it  is  that  he  at  once  enlisted  in 
active  service  in  behalf  of  the  new  cause.  Retaining 
the  garb  of  a philosopher,  he  ardently  devoted  him- 
self) as  is  evinced  by  his  works,  to  the  propagation  of 
Christianity  by  writing  and  otherwise.  Tillemont  ar- 
gues, from  the  language  of  Justin  ( Apolog . Prima,  c.  61, 
65),  that  he  was  a priest,  but  this  inference  is  not  borne 
out  by  the  passage,  and,  though  approved  by  Maran,  is 
rejected  by  Otto,  Neander,  and  Semisch.  That  he  vis- 
ited many  places  in  order  to  diffuse  the  knowledge  of 
the  Christian  religion  is  probable  (comp.  Coho7iat.  ad 
IV. — A AAA 


Grcec.  c.  13, 34),  and  he  appears  to  have  made  the  pro- 
fession of  a philosopher  subservient  to  this  purpose  {Di- 
alog. cum  Tryph.  in  it. ; Eusebius,  Hist.  Eccl.  iv,  11;  Pho- 
tius,  Bibl.  cod.  125).  According  to  what  is  commonly 
deemed  the  ancient  record  of  his  martyrdom  (though 
Papebroche  regards  this  as  narrating  the  death  of  another 
Justin), he  visited  Rome  twice.  On  his  second  visit  he 
was  apprehended,  and  brought  before  the  tribunal  of 
Rusticus,  who  held  the  office  of  prrefectus  urbi ; and  as 
he  refused  to  offer  sacrifice  to  the  gods,  he  was  sentenced 
to  be  scourged  and  beheaded,  which  sentence  appears  to 
have  been  immediately  carried  into  effect.  Several  oth- 
er persons  suffered  with  him.  Papebroche  rejects  this 
account  of  his  martyrdom,  and  thinks  his  execution  was 
secret,  so  that  the  date  and  manner  of  it  were  never 
known.  The  Greek  Meneea  (s.  d.  1 Junii)  state  that  he 
drank  hemlock.  His  death  is  generally  considered  to 
have  taken  place  in  the  persecution  under  the  emperor 
Marcus  Antoninus ; and  the  Chronicon  Paschale  (i,  258, 
ed.  Paris ; 207,  ed.  Venice;  482,  ed.  Bonn),  which  is  fol- 
lowed by  Tillemont,  Baronius,  Pagi,  Otto,  and  other  mod- 
erns, places  it  in  the  consulship  of  Orphitus  and  Pndens, 
A.D.  165;  Dupin,  Semisch,  and  Schaff  place  it  in  A.D. 
166;  Fleury  in  A.D.  167;  and  Tillemont  and  Maran  in 
A.D.  168.  Papebroche  ( Acta  Sanctorum,  April,  ii,  107), 
assigning  the  Apologia  Secunda.  of  Justin  to  the  year 
171,  contends  that  he  must  have  lived  to  or  beyond  that 
time.  Dodwell,  on  the  contrary,  following  the  errone- 
ous statement  of  Eusebius  in  his  Chronicon,  places  his 
death  in  the  reign  of  Antoninus  Pius;  anil  Epiphanius, 
according  to  the  present  reading  of  the  passage  (adv. 
Ilceres.  xlvi,  1),  which  is  most  likely  corrupt,  places  it  in 
the  reign  of  the  emperor  Hadrian  or  Adrian,  a mani- 
fest error,  as  the  Apologia  Prima  is  addressed  to  Anto- 
ninus Pius,  the  successor  of  Hadrian,  and  the  Secunda 
probably  to  Marcus  Aurelius  and  L.Verus,  who  succeed-* 
ed  Antoninus.  The  death  of  Jnstin  has  been  very  com- 
monly ascribed  (compare  Tati  an,  Conti'a  Gracos,  c.  19; 
Eusebius,  Hist.  Eccl.  iv,  16,  and  Chron.  Paschale)  to  the 
machinations  of  the  Cynic  philosopher  Crescens.  The 
enmity  of  Crescens,  and  Justin’s  apprehension  of  injury 
from  him,  are  mentioned  by  Justin  himself  ( Apolog . 
Secunda,  c.  3).  lie  has  been  canonized  by  the  Eastern 
and  Western  churches;  the  Greeks  celebrate  his  mem- 
ory on  the  1st  of  June,  the  Latins  on  the  13th  of  April. 
At  Rome,  the  Church  of  St.  Lorenzo  without  the  Avails  is 
belie\-ed  to  be  the  resting-place  of  his  remains;  but  the 
Church  of  the  Jesuits  at  Eysstadt,  in  Germany,  claims 
to  possess  his  body : there  is,  however,  no  reason  to  be- 
lieA  e that  either  claim  is  Avell  founded.  The  more  com- 
mon epithet  added  to  the  name  of  Justin  by  the  an- 
cients is  that  of  “ the  philosopher”  (Epiphanius,  l.  c. ; 
Eusebius,  Chronicon,  lib.  ii;  Jerome,  De  Viribus  Jllustr. 
c.  xxiii ; Chronicon  Paschale.  1.  c. ; George  Syucellus,  p. 
350, 35 l,ed. Paris;  p. 279, ed. Venice;  Glijcas, A nnal. pars 
iii.p. 241, ed. Paris;  p.  186, ed. Venice ; p. 449, ed. Bonn) ; 
that  of  ;‘tlie  martyr,”  iioav  in  general  use,  is  employed  by 
Tertullian  (A  dv.  Valent,  c.  5),  Avho  calls  him  “ philosophus 
et  martyr;”  by  Photius  {Biblioth.  cod.  48,-125,  232),  and 
by  Joannes  Damascenus  {Sacra  Parall.  i.,  754,  ed.  Le- 
quien),  wTho,  like  Tertullian,  conjoins  the  two  epithets. 

I To — It  remains  for  us  to  consider  the  Avritings  of 
Justin  Martyr,  Avhich,  although  not  ATery  A'oluminous,  so 
far  as  they  are  knoAvn  to  he  or  to  have  been  extant,  are 
among  the  most  important  that  have  come  doAvn  to  us  • 
from  the  2d  century,  not  so  much  because  they  are  apol- 
ogetic as  because  they  are  the  earliest  Christian  apol- 
ogies extant.  In  their  classification  AAre  folloAV  closely, 
Avith  Smith  (Diet.  Gr.  and  Rom.  Biog.  s.  a\),  one  of  thOr 
latest  editors  of  the  works  of  Justin  Martyr,  J.  F.  C7^ 
Otto,  Avho  makes  four  distinct  classes.  e 

(1.)  Undisputed  WorJcs.  — 1.  ‘A7roXoyta  wpwr//  vrrkp 
Xpurnavuiv  TrpoQ  ’Avrujvivov  tov  Evaeft tj,  • Apologia  - 
prima  pro  Christianis  ad  A ntoninum  Pium,  mentioned'1 
in  the  only  two  knoAvn  MSS.  of  the  Apologies,  and  in  ' 
the  older  editions  of  Justin,  e.  g.  that  of  Stephens  (Paris,  ' 
1551,  fob)  and  that  of  Sylburg  (Heidelberg,  1 593.  folio), 
iv’gaP  -Ci  .- 


JUSTIN 


1106 


JUSTIN 

as  his  second  Apology,  is  one  of  the  most  interesting 
remains  of  Christian  antiquity.  It  is  addressed  to  the 
emperor  Antoninus  Pius,  and  to  his  adopted  sons  “1  e- 
rissirnus  the  Philosopher,”  afterwards  the  emperor  M. 
Aurelius,  and  “Lucius  the  Philosopher”  (we  follow  the 
common  reading,  not  that  of  Eusebius),  afterwards  the 
emperor  Vcrus,  colleague  of  M.  Aurelius.  From  the 
circumstance  that  Verissimus  is  not  styled  Caesar,  which 
dignity  he  acquired  in  the  course  of  A.D.  139,  it  is  in- 
ferred by  many  critics,  including  Pagi,  Neander,  Otto, 
Semiseh,  and  others,  that  the  Apology  was  written 
previously,  and  probably  early  in  that  year.  Euse- 
bius places  it  in  the  fourth  year  of  Antoninus,  or  the 
first  year  of  the  230th  Olympiad,  A.D.  141,  which  is 
rather  too  late.  Others  contend  for  a still  later  date. 
Justin  himself,  in  the  course  of  the  work  (c.  46),  states 
that  Christ  was  born  a hundred  and  fifty  years  before 
lie  -wrote,  but  he  must  be  understood  as  speaking  in 
round  numbers.  However,  Tillcmont,  Grabe,  Fleury, 
Ceillicr,  Maran,  and  others,  fix  the  date  of  the  work  in 
A.I).  150.  “ Its  contents,”  says  bishop  Kaye,  “ may  be 

reduced  to  the  following  heads:  \ 1]  Appeals  to  the  jus- 
tice of  the  ruling  powers,  and  expostulations  with  them 
on  the  unfairness  of  the  proceedings  against  the  Chris- 
tians, who  were  condemned  without  any  previous  inves- 
tigation into  their  lives  or  opinions  merely  because 
they  were  Christians,  and  were  denied  the  liberty  al- 
lowed to  all  the  other  subjects  of  the  Roman  empire,  of 
worshipping  the  God  whom  they  themselves  preferred. 
[2]  Refutations  of  the  charges  of  atheism,  immorality, 
and  disaffection  towards  the  emperor,  which  were 
brought  against  the  Christians*  these  charges  Justin 
refuted  by  appealing  to  the  purity  of  the  Gospel  pre- 
cepts, and  to  the  amelioration  produced  in  the  conduct 
of  those  who  embraced  Christianity;  and  by  stating 
that  the  kingdom  to  which  Christians  looked  forward 
was  not  of  this  world,  but  a heavenly  kingdom.  [3] 
Direct  arguments  in  proof  of  the  truth  of  Christianity, 
drawn  from  miracles  and  prophecy.  With  respect  to 
the  former,  Justin  principally  occupies  himself  in  refu- 
ting the  objection  that  the  miracles  of  Christ  were  per- 
formed by  magical  arts.  With  respect  to  the  latter,  he 
states  in  forcible  terms  the  general  nature  of  the  argu- 
ment from  prophecy,  and  shows  the  accomplishment  of 
many  particular  prophecies  in  the  person  of  Jesus;  in- 
ferring, from  their  accomplishment,  the  reasonableness 
of  entertaining  a firm  persuasion  that  the  prophecies  yet 
unfidfilled— that,  for  instance,  respecting  Christ’s  sec- 
ond advent — will  in  due  time  be  accomplished.  [4] 
Justin  does  not  confine  himself  to  defending  Christianity, 
but  occasionally  becomes  the  assailant,  and  exposes  with 
success  the  absurdities  of  the  Gentile  polytheism  and 
idolatry.  In  further  confirmation  of  the  innocuous,  or, 
rather,  beneficial  character  of  Christianity,  Justin  con- 
cludes the  treatise  witli  a description  of  the  mode  in 
which  proselytes  were  admitted  into  the  Church,  of  its 
other  rites  and  customs,  and  of  the  habits  and  manner 
of  life  of  the  primitive  Christians.”  To  this  Apology, 
the  larger  one  of  the  two,  are  generally  appended  three 
documents:  (1)  Acputvov  virep  Xpioriaviov  ijrarroXt), 
A driani  pro  Christiana  Epistola , or  Exemplum  Episto- 
he  ImpentUny  A driani  ad  Minimum  Fundanum,  Pro- 
coruulum  A siw.  This  Greek  version  of  the  emperor’s  let- 
ter was  made  and  is  given  by  Eusebius  ( IlisLEccles . iv, 
H *;  ,?“stin  had  subjoined  to  his  work  the  Latin  original 
(Eusebius,  /list.  Eccl.  iv,8),  which  probably  is  still  pre- 
served by  Rutinns  in  his  version  of  Eusebius,  for  which, 
in  the  work  of  Justin,  the  version  of  Eusebius  was  after- 
wards substituted.  (2)  ’Avrwvivov  imir roXt)  7rpog  to 
koii’ov  rt'ic  Atriag,  A utouini  Epistolu  ad  Commune  Asia;. 
It  is  hardly  likely  that  this  document  was  inserted  in 
its  place  by  Justin  himself;  it  has  probably  been  added 
since  Ins- time,  and  its  genuineness  is  subject  to  consid- 
erable doubt.  It  is  given,  but  with  great  variation, 
by  Eusebius  ( Hid . Ecvles.  iv,  13),  and  was  written,  ac- 
cording to  the  text  of  the  letter  itself,  as  it  appears  in 
Eusebms,-uot  by  Antoninus,  but  by  his  successor,  M. 


Aurelius.  (3)  Mapieou  ftamXeutg  imaroXg  Trpbg  ryv 
ovyicXyrov,  iv  y paprvpei  Xpianavovg  among  yeye- 
vijoSai  ri)Q  yiictjg  avrwv,  Marci  Imperatoris  Epistola 
ad  Senatum  qua  testatur  Christianos  victories  causam 
fuisse.  This  letter,  the  spnriousness  of  which  is  gen- 
erally admitted  (though  it  is  said  by  Tertullian,  A polo- 
getics,  cap.  5,  that  a letter  of  the  same  tenor  was  writ- 
ten by  the  emperor),  relates  to  the  famous  miracle  of 
the  so-called  thnndering  legion  (q.  v.).  2.  ‘ AiroXoyia 

Sevrtpa  vi rip  rwv  XpiGTiav&v  rrp'oc  ryv  ’Pojpai- 
u>v  ovyicXrjTOV , Apologia  Secunda  pro  Ckristianis  ad 
Senatum  Romanum.  This  second  and  shorter  plea  for 
the  Christians  was  addressed  probably  to  the  emperors 
M.  Aurelius  and  Lucius  Yerus,  or,  rather,  to  Aurelius 
alone,  as  Yerus  was  engaged  in  the  East  in  the  Parthian 
war.  (See  below.)  Neander  adopts  the  opinion  for- 
merly maintained  by  Yalesius,  that  this  Apology  (placed 
in  the  older  editions  before  the  longer  one  just  described) 
was  addressed  to  Antoninus  Pius;  but  Eusebius  ( Hist . 
Eccl.  iv,  17, 18)  and  Photius  {Bill.  cod.  125)  among  the 
ancients,  and  Dupin,  Pagi,  Tillemont,  Grabe,  Ruinart, 
Ceillier,  Maran,  Mosheim,  Semiseh,  and  Otto  among 
the  moderns,  maintain  the  opposite  side.  Otto  thinks 
it  was  written  about  A.D.  164;  others  place  it  somewhat 
later.  Scaliger  ( Animadv . in  Chron.  Euseb.  p.  219)  and 
Papebroche  ( Acta  Sanctorum,  Aprilis,  ii,  106)  consider 
that  this  second  Apology  of  Justin  is  simply  an  intro- 
duction or  preface  to  the  first,  and  that  the  Apology 
presented  to  Aurelins  and  Yerus  has  been  lost,  but  their 
opinion  has  been  refuted  by  several  writers,  especially 
by  Otto.  Granted,  then,  that  this  Apology  was  pre- 
sented to  31.  Aurelins,  we  find  it  “occasioned  by  the 
punishment  inflicted  on  three  persons  at  Rome,  whom 
Urbicus,  the  prefect  of  the  city,  had  put  to  death  merely 
because  they  were  Christians.  After  exposing  the  in- 
justice of  this  proceeding,  Justin  replies  to  two  objec- 
tions which  the  enemies  of  the  Gospel  were  accustomed 
to  urge.  The  first  was,  ‘Why,  if  the  Christians  were 
certain  of  being  received  into  heaven,  they  did  not  de- 
stroy themselves,  and  save  the  Roman  governors  the 
trouble  of  putting  them  to  death?’  Justin’s  answer  is, 
that,  if  they  were  so  to  act,  they  would  contravene  the 
designs  of  God  by  diminishing  the  number  of  believers, 
preventing  the  diffusion  of  true  religion,  and,  as  far  as 
depended  upon  them,  extinguishing  the  human  race. 
The  second  objection  was,  ‘Why,  if  they  were  regarded 
by  God  with  an  eye  of  favor,  he  suffered  them  to  be  ex- 
posed to  injury  and  oppression  ?’  J ustin  replies  that  the 
persecutions  with  which  they  then  were,  and  with  which 
many  virtuous  men  among  the  heathens  had  before 
been  visited,  originated  in  the  malignant  artifices  of  dae- 
mons, the  offspring  of  the  apostate  angels,  whd  were 
permitted  to  exercise  their  power  until  the  designs  of 
the  Almighty  were  finally  accomplished.  Another  ob- 
jection, of  a different  kind,  appears  to  have  been  urged 
against  the  Christians : that,  in  exhorting  men  to  live 
virtuously,  they  insisted,  not  upon  the  beauty  of  virtue, 
but  upon  the  eternal  rewards  and  punishments  which 
await  the  virtuous  and  wicked.  Justin  replies  that 
these  are  topics  on  which  every  believer  in  the  exist- 
ence of  God  must  insist,  since  in  that  belief  is  involved 
the  further  belief  that  he  will  reward  the  good  and  pun- 
ish the  bad  With  respect  to  direct  arguments  to  prove 
the  divine  origin  of  Christianit}’-,  that  which  Justin 
principally  urges  is  drawn  from  the  fact  that  no  man 
ever  consented  to  die  in  attestation  of  the  truth  of  any 
philosophical  tenets;  whereas  men,  even  from  the  low- 
est ranks  of  life,  braved  danger  and  death  in  the  cause 
of  the  Gospel.  Towards  the  conclusion  of  the  tract,- 
Justin  states  that  he  was  himself  induced  to  embrace 
Christianity  by  observing  the  courage  and  constancy 
with  which  its  professors  encountered  all  the  terrors  of 
persecution.”  Two  Fragmenta,  given  by  Grabe  in  his 
Spicileg.  saecul.  ii,  173,  are  supposed  by  him  to  belong 
to  the  second  Apology,  in  the  present  copies  of  which 
they  are'not  found ; but  the  correctness  of  this  supposi- 
tion is  very  doubtful.  3.  Ilpog  Tp vQibva  ’lovSaiov  Si- 


JUSTIN' 


1107 


JUSTIN 


aXoyoc,  Cum  Tryphone  Judceo  Dialogus.  This  dialogue, 
in  which  Justin  defends  Christianity  against  the  objec- 
tions of  Trypho,  professes  to  be  the  record  of  an  actual 
discussion,  held,  according  to  Eusebius  ( Hist . Kecks,  iv, 
18),  at  Ephesus.  Trypho  describes  himself  as  a Jew, 
“ flying  from  the  war  now  raging,”  probably  occasioned 
by  the  revolt  under  Barchochebas,  in  the  reign  of  Ha- 
drian, A.D.  132-134.  But,  though  the  discussion  prob- 
ably took  place  at  the  time,  it  was  not  committed  to 
writing,  at  least  not  finished,  till  some  years  after,  as 
Justin  makes  a reference  to  his  first  Apology,  which  is 
assigned,  as  we  have  seen,  to  A.D.  138  or  139.  It  has 
been  conjectured  that  Trypho  is  the  Rabbi  Tarphon  of 
the  Talmudists,  teacher  or  colleague  of  the  celebrated 
Rabbi  Akiba,  but  he  does  not  appear  as  a rabbi  in  the 
dialogue.  The  dialogue  is  perhaps  founded  upon  the 
conversation  of  Justin  with  Trypho  rather  than  an  ac- 
curate record  of  it.  After  an  introduction,  in  which 
Justin  gives  an  account  of  the  manner  of  his  conversion 
to  Christianity,  and  earnestly  exhorts  Trypho  to  follow 
his  example,  Trypho  replies  to  the  exhortation  by  say- 
ing that  Justin  would  have  acted  more  wisely  in  adhe- 
ring to  any  one  of  the  philosophical  sects  to  which  he 
had  formerly  been  attached  than  in  leaving  God,  and 
placing  all  his  reliance  upon  a man.  In  the  former 
case,  if  he  lived  virtuously,  he  might  hope  to  obtain  sal- 
vation ; in  the  latter  he  could  have  no  hope.  His  only 
safe  course,  therefore,  was  to  be  circumcised,  and  com- 
ply with  the  other  requisitions  of  the  Mosaic  law.  Jus- 
tin answers  that  the  Christians  had  not  deserted  God, 
though  they  no  longer  observed  the  ceremonial  law. 
They  worshipped  the  God  who  brought  the  forefathers 
of  the  Jews  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  gave  the  law, 
but  who  had  plainly  declared  by  the  prophets  that  he 
would  give  a new  law — a law  appointing  a new  mode 
of  purification  from  sin,  by  the  baptism  of  repentance 
and  of  the  knowledge  of  God — and  requiring  a spiritual, 
not  a carnal  circumcision.  The  ceremonial  law  was,  in 
truth,  given  to  the  Jews  on  account  of  the  hardness  of 
their  heart;  as  a mark  of  God’s  displeasure  at  their 
apostasy,  when  they  made  the  golden  calf  in  Horeb. 
All  its  ordinances,  its  sacrifices,  its  Sabbath,  the  prohi- 
bition of  certain  kinds  of  food,  were  designed  to  coun- 
teract the  inveterate  tendency  of  the  Jews  to  fall  into 
idolatry.  If,  says  Justin,  we  contend  that  the  ceremo- 
nial law  is  of  universal  and  perpetual  obligation,  we  run 
the  hazard  of  charging  God  with  inconsistency,  as  if  he 
had  appointed  different  modes  of  justification  at  differ- 
ent times ; since  they  who  lived  before  Abraham  were 
not  circumcised,  and  they  who  lived  before  Moses  nei- 
ther observed  the  Sabbath  nor  offered  sacrifices,  although 
God  bore  testimony  to  them  that  they  were  righteous. 
Having,  as  he  thinks,  satisfactorily  proved  that  the  cer- 
emonial law  is  no  longer  binding,  Justin  replies  to  an 
argument  used  by  Trypho,  that  the  prophecy  of  Dan. 
vii,  9 taught  the  Jews  to  expect  that  the  Messiah  would 
be  great  and  glorious;  whereas  the  Messiah  of  the 
Christians  was  unhonored  and  inglorious,  and  fell  under 
the  extreme  curse  of  the  law,  for  he  was  crucified.  Jus- 
tin’s answer  is,  that  the  Scriptures  of  the  Old  Testament 
speak  of  two  advents  of  the  Messiah,  one  in  humiliation 
and  the  other  in  glory;  though  the  Jews,  blinded  by 
their  prejudices,  looked  only  to  those  passages  which 
foretold  the  latter.  He  then  proceeds  to  quote  passages 
of  the  Old  Testament  in  which  the  Messiah  is  called 
God,  and  Lord  of  Hosts.  In  this  part  of  the  dialogue 
Justin  extracts  from  the  Old  Testament  several  texts  in 
which  he  finds  allusions  to  the  Gospel  history.  Thus 
the  paschal  lamb  was  a type  of  Christ’s  crucifixion ; the 
offering  of  fine  flour  for  those  who  were  cleansed  from 
the  leprosy  was  a type  of  the  bread  in  the  Eucharist ; 
the  twelve  bells  attached  to  the  robe  of  the  high-priest, 
of  the  twelve  apostles.  Justin  next  undertakes  to  prove 
that  the  various  prophecies  respecting  the  Messiah  were 
fulfilled  in  Jesus ; but,  having  quoted  Isaiah  vii  to  prove 
that  the  Messiah  was  to  be  born  of  a virgin,  he  first 
runs  into  a digression  caused  by  an  inquiry  from  Try- 


pho, whether  Jews  who  led  holy  lives,  like  Job,  Enoch, 
and  Noah,  but  observed  the  Mosaic  law,  could  be  saved; 
and  afterwards  into  a second  digression,  occasioned  by  a 
remark  of  Trypho’s  that  the  Christian  doctrine  respect- 
ing the  prc-existcnce  and  divinity  of  Christ,  and  his 
subsequent  assumption  of  humanity,  was  monstrous  and 
absurd.  Combating  these  points,  Trypho  next  inquires 
of  Justin  whether  he  really  believes  that  Jerusalem 
would  be  rebuilt,  and  all  the  Gentiles,  as  well  as  the 
Jews  and  proselytes,  collected  there  midcr  the  govern- 
ment of  the  Messiah ; or  whether  he  merely  professed 
such  a belief  in  order  to  conciliate  the  Jews.  Justin,  in 
answer,  admits  that  the  belief  was  not  universal  amoug 
the  orthodox  Christians,  but  that  he  himself  maintained 
that  the  dead  would  rise  again  in  the  body,  and  live  for 
a thousand  years  in  Jerusalem,  which  would  be  rebuilt, 
and  beautified  and  enlarged.  He  appeals  in  support  of 
his  opinion  to  Isaiah,  and  to  the  Apocalypse,  which  he 
ascribes  to  John,  one  of  Christ's  apostles.  Justin  then 
concludes  the  interview  by  debating  the  conversion  of 
the  Gentiles.  He  contends  that  the  Christians  are  the 
true  people  of  God,  inasmuch  as  they  fulfil  the  spiritual 
meaning  of  the  law,  and  do  not  merely  conform,  like  the 
Jews,  to  the  letter.  They  have  the  true  circumcision 
of  the  heart;  they  are  the  true  race  of  priests  dedicated 
to  God,  and  typified  by  Jesus,  the  high-priest  in  the 
prophecy  of  Zechariah;  they  offer  the  true  spiritual 
sacrifices  which  are  pleasing  to  God,  agreeably  to  the 
prophecy  of  Malachi;  they  are  the  seed  promised  to 
Abraham,  because  they  are  actuated  by  the  same  prin- 
ciple of  faith  which  actuated  Abraham ; they  are,  in  a 
word,  the  true  Israel.  The  dialogue  with  Trypho  ap- 
pears to  be  mutilated,  but  to  what  extent  is  a matter  of 
dispute.  Two  fragments  are  assigned  to  it  by  Grabe 
(Spicilegium,  spec,  ii,  175),  but  it  is  doubtful  with  what 
correctness.  “It  is  to  be  observed,”  says  Smith  (Dic- 
tionary of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography ),  “that,  al- 
though Otto  ranks  the  Dialogus  cum  Tryphone  among 
the  undisputed  works  of  Justin,  its  genuineness  has  been 
repeatedly  attacked.  The  first  assault  was  by  C.  G. 
Koch,  of  Apenrade,  in  the  duchy  of  Sleswick  (Just ini 
Martyris  Dialogus  cum  Tryphone  . . . voStvotwg  . . . 
convict  us),  but  this  attack  was  regarded  as  of  little  mo- 
ment. That  of  Wetstein  (Pi-oleg.  in  Nov.  Test,  i,  66), 
founded  on  the  difference  of  the  citations  from  the  text 
of  the  Sept,  and  their  agreement  with  that  of  the  Hex- 
aplar  edition  of  Origen,  and  perhaps  of  the  version  of 
Symmaehus,  which  are  both  later  than  the  time  of  Jus- 
tin, was  more  serious,  and  has  called  forth  elaborate  re- 
plies from  Krom  (Diatribe  de  Autheniia  Dialog.  Just  ini 
Martyr,  cum  Tryph .,  etc.,  1778,  8vo),  Eichhorn  (Einki- 
tung  in  das  A . T.),  and  Ivredner  ( Beitriig <T zur  Einleitung, 
etc.).  The  attack  was  renewed  at  a later  period  by 
Lange,  but  with  little  result.  An  account  of  the  contro- 
versy is  given  by  Semisch  (book  ii,  sect,  i,  ch.  ii),  who 
contends  earnestly  for  the  genuineness  of  the  work.  It 
may  be  observed  that  the  genuineness  even  of  the  t"’o 
Apologies  was  attacked  by  the  learned  but  eccentric 
Hardouin.” 

(2.)  Disputed  or  Doubtful  Works.  — 4.  Adyor  irpbg 
"E\\ijvag,  Oratio  ad  Grmcos.  “If  this  is  indeed  a work 
of  Justin,  which  we  think  very  doubtful,  it  is  probably 
that  described  by  Eusebius  (llist.Eccl.  iv,  18)  as  treat- 
ing Trtpi  Ti]c  twv  caipovujv  <pvcnujQ  (compare  Photius, 
Bibl.  cod.  125),  and  by  Jerome  (De  Vir.  Illustr.  c.  23)  as 
being  “ de  Dremonum  natura ;”  for  it  is  a severe  attack 
on  the  flagitious  immoralities  ascribed  by  the  heathens 
to  their  deities,  and  committed  by  themselves  in  their 
religious  festivals.  I ts  identity,  however,  with  the  work 
respecting  daemons  is  doubted  by  many  critics.  Cave 
supposes  it  to  be  a portion  of  the  work  next  mentioned. 
Its  genuineness  has  been  on  various  grounds  disputed 
by  Oudiii,  Sender,  Semisch,  and  others,  and  is  doubted 
by  Grabe,  Dupin,  and  Neander.  The  grounds  of  objec- 
tion are  well  stated  by  Semisch  (book  ii,  sect,  ii,  c.  i) ; 
but  the  genuineness  of  the  piece  is  asserted  by  Tille- 
mont,  Ceillier,  Cave,  Mar  an,  De  Wette,  Baumgarten-Cru- 


JUSTIN' 


JUSTIN’  1103 


C 

i 

w. 


1 

L 


sius,  and  others,  and  by  Otto,  who  has  argued  the  ques- 
tion, we  think,  with  very  doubtful  success.  If  the  work 
be  that  described  by  Eusebius,  it  must  be  mutilated,  for 
the  dissertation  on  the  nature  of  the  daemons  or  heathen 
deities  is  said  by  Eusebius  to  have  been  only  a part  of 
rlie  work,  but  it  now  constitutes  the  whole.  5.  A 6-yog 
IlapaiiuriKog  irpbg  "EWyvag,  Cohortatio  ad  Grcecos. 
This  is,  perhaps,  another  of  the  works  mentioned  by  Eu- 
sebius, Jerome,  and  Photius  (l.  c.),  namely,  the  one  said 
by  them  to  have  been  entitled  by  the  author  "EXfyxos, 
( onfutatio,  or  perhaps  Too  IlXarumog  i\tyxo£,  diato- 
ms ‘ Confutatio  (Photius,  Bibl.  eod.  232),  though  the  title 
has  been  dropped.  Others  are  disposed  to  identify  the 
work  last  described  with  the  Confutatio.  The  genuine- 
ness of  the  extant  work  has  been  disputed,  chiefly  on 
the  ground  of  internal  evidence,  by  Gudin,  and  by  some 
German  scholars  (Sender,  Arendt,  and  Herbig);  and  is 
spoken  of  with  doubt  by  Neander;  but  it  has  generally 
been  received  as  genuine,  and  is  defended  by  Maran, 
Seniiseh  (book  ii,  sect,  i,  c.  iii),  and  Otto.  It  is  a much 
longer  piece  than  the  Oratio  ad  Grcecos.  6.  Iltpi  pov- 
ap\iag,  De  Monarchia.  The  title  is  thus  given  in  the 
MSS.  and  by  Maran.  A treatise  under  nearly  the  same 
title,  Ilf  pi  Hfoo  povapxiaQ,  De  Monarchia  Dei , is  men- 
tioned by  Eusebius,  Jerome,  and  Photius  ( l . c.).  The 
word  Bfou  is  contained  in  the  title  of  the  older  editions 
of  the  extant  treatise,  which  is  an  argument  for  Mon- 
otheism, supported  by  numerous  quotations  from  the 
Greek  poets  and  philosophers.  As,  according  to  Euse- 
bius, Justin  had  used  citations  from  the  sacred  writings 
which  are  not  found  in  the  extant  work,  it  is  probable 
that,  if  this  be  the  genuine  work,  it  has  come  down  to 
us  mutilated.  Petavius  and  Tillemont  in  a former  age, 
and  llcrbig  and  Semisch  in  the  present  day,  doubt  or 
deny  the  genuineness  of  this  treatise,  and  their  argu- 
ments are  not  without  considerable  force;  but  the  great 
majority  of  critics  admit  the  treatise  to  be  Justin’s, 
though  some  of  them,  as  Cave,  Dupin,  and  Ceillier,  con- 
tend that  it  is  mutilated.  Maran,  understanding  the 
passage  in  Eusebius  differently  from  others,  vindicates 
not  only  the  genuineness,  but  the  integrity  of  the  work, 
home  of  the  passages  quoted  from  the  ancient  poets  are 
not  found  in  any  other  writing,  and  are  on  that  account 


suspected  to  be  spurious  additions  of  a later  hand.”  7. 
’EjrurroX//  ttooq  Atuyvrjrov,  Epistola  ad  Diognetum. 
This  valuable  relic  of  antiquity,  which  describes  the  life 
and  worship  of  the  early  Christians,  is  by  some  eminent 
critics,  as  Labbe,  Cave,  Fabricius,  Ceillier,  Baumgarten- 
Crusitis,  and  others,  ascribed  to  Justin;  by  others,  as 
Tillemont,  Le  Nourry,  Oudin,  Neander,  and  Semisch,  it 
is  ascribed  to  some  other,  but  unknown  writer,  who  is 
supposed  to  have  lived  earlier  than  Justin.  Grabe, 
Dupin,  Maran,  and  Otto,  are  in  doubt  as  to  the  author- 
ship. Both  Otto  and  .Semisch  give  a lengthened  state- 
ment of  the  arguments  on  the  question : those  of  Se- 
misch, derived  chiefly  from  a comparison  of  the  style 
and  thoughts  of  the  author  with  those  of  Justin  in  his 
undisputed  works,  dearly  point  to  some  other  person  as 
its  author.”  Comp,  especially  Pressense, Early  rears  of 
Christianity,  n (Martyrs  and  Apologists),  p.  591,  foot- 
note ( X.  1 . 1871, 1 2mo).  (The  fragment  of  J ustin  on  the 
Resurrection  is  noticed  under  lost  works.) 

^(3.)  Spurious  IlorEs. — 8.  ’ Ai’cirpom)  doypdrwv  n- 
run>  ApKTroTtXiKihv,  Qnorundam  Aristotelis  Dor/matum 
Confutatio.  “ Possibly  this  is  the  work  described  by  Pho- 
tms  ( Bibl.  cod.  125)  as  written  against  the  first  and  sec- 
ond books  of  the  Physics  of  Aristotle.  Its  spuriousness 
is  generally  admitted ; scarcely  any  critics  except  Cave, 
and  perhaps  Grabe,  contend  that  ’it  belongs  to  Justin ; 
ait  its  date  is  very  doubtful,  and  its  real  authorship  un- 
known. 9.  ?>!<:  op$>)g  bpo\oyiag,Expositio  rec- 

t<e  Confession w.  Possibly  this  is  the  work  cited  as  Jus- 
tin s by  Leontius  of  Byzantium,  in  the  6th  centurv;  but 
it  was  little  known  in  Western  Europe  till  the  time  of 
trie  Letormation,  when  it  was  received  by  some  of  the 
reformers,  as  Calvin,  as  a genuine  work  of  Justin,  and 
by  others,  as  Melancthon  and  the  Magdeburg  eenturia- 


tors,  placed  among  the  works  of  doubtful  genuineness. 
But  it  is  now  generally  allowed  that  the  precision  of  its 
orthodoxy,  and  the  use  of  various  terms  not  in  use  in 
Justin’s  time,  make  it  evident  that  it  was  written  at  any 
rate  after  the  commencement  of  the  Arian  controversy, 
and  probably  after  the  Nestorian,  or  even  the  Eutychian 
controversy.  Grabe,  Ceillier,  and  some  others  ascribe 
it  to  Justinus  Siculus.  10.  ’ ATTOKpiaeig  7rpog  rovg  6p- 
3o do%ovg  mpi  tivu>i>  dvayicaiojv  ^Tjrrjpdrwv,  Respon- 
siones  ad  Ortkodoxos  de  quibusdam  Kecessariis  Quces- 
tionibus.  This  is  confessedly  spurious.  11.  ’Epiorpoiig 
XpuTTtavtKai  7Tpbg  rovg  "EXX ijvag,  Qucestiones  Chris - 
tiance  ad  Grcecos,  and  ’Epcorpcrug  ‘EXXpviKai  irpbg  rovg 
Xparriavovg,  Qucestiones  Grcecce  ad  Christianas.  Kest- 
ner  alone  of  modem  writers  contends  for  the  genuine- 
ness of  these  pieces.  It  is  thought  by  some  that  either 
these  answers,  etc.,  or  those  to  the  Orthodox  just  men- 
tioned, are  the  ’ Arropiitiv  Kara  rijg  evertfikiag  KtcpaXaao- 
ettg  iiriXvofic,  Brief  Resolutions  of  Doubts  unfavorable 
to  Piety,  mentioned  by  Photius  (Bibl.  cod.  125).  12. 

Epistola  ad  Zenam  ct  Serenum,  commencing  ’lovorivog 
Vjqvd  Kai  Etpipup  rotg  dSf\<potg  ynipf iv,  Justinus  Z elite 
et  Sereno  fratribus  salutem.  This  piece  is  by  the  learn- 
ed (except  Grabe,  Cave,  and  a few  others)  rejected  from 
the  works  of  Justin  Martyr.  Halloix,  Tillemont,  and 
Ceillier  ascribe  it  to  a Justin,  abbot  of  a monastery  near 
Jerusalem,  in  the  reign  of  the  emperor  Heraelius,  of 
whom  mention  is  made  in  the  life  of  St.  Anastasius  the 
Persian ; but  Maran  considers  that  as  doubtful.” 

(4.)  Lost  IPorA's. — 13.  Eovraypa  tcara  Traaojv  rwv 
yeytvrifitvuiv  a'tptoeaiv.  Liber  contra  omnes  Ilcereses, 
mentioned  by  Justin  himself  in  his  Apologia  Prima  (c. 
26,  p.  70,  ed.  Maran : i,  194,  ed.  Otto),  and  therefore  ante- 
cedent in  the  time  of  its  composition  to  that  work.  14. 
A oyooL  or  "Evyypappa  Kara  MapKiun’og,  or  TTpog  M«p- 
Kuova,  Contra  Marcionem  (Irenseus,  Adv.  Ilceres.  iv,  6, 
conf.  v,  26 ; Jerome,  De  Vir.  Illustribus,  c.  23 ; Eusebius, 
Hist.  Eccl.  iv,  1 1 ; Photius,  Bibl.  cod.  125).  “ Baumgar- 

ten-Crusius  and  Otto  conjecture  that  this  work  against 
Marcion  was  a part  of  the  larger  work,  Contra  omnes 
Ilcereses,  just  mentioned;  but  Jerome  and  Photius  clear- 
ly distinguish  them.  The  fragment  De  Resurrectione. 
Carnis,  preserved  by  Joannes  Damascenus  (Sacra  Par- 
all.  Opera,  ii,  756,  etc.,  ed.  Lequien),  and  usually  printed 
with  the  works  of  Justin,  is  thought  by  Otto  to  be  from 
the  Liber  contra  omnes  Ilcereses,  or  from  that  against 
Marcion  (supposing  them  to  be  distinct  works),  for  no 
separate  treatise  of  Justin  on  the  Resurrection  appears 
to  have  been  known  to  Eusebius,  or  Jerome,  or  Photius; 
but  such  a work  is  cited  by  Procopius  of  Gaza,  In  Octu- 
tcuch.  ad  Genes,  iii,  21.  Semisch,  however  (book  ii,  sect, 
i,  c.  iv),  who,  with  Grabe  and  Otto,  contends  for  the  gen- 
uineness of  the  fragment,  which  he  vindicates  against 
the  objections  of  Tillemont,  Le  Nourry,  Maran,  Neander, 
and  others,  thinks  it  was  an  independent  work.”  15. 
'PdXrTje,  Psaltes,  a work  the  nature  of  which  is  not 
known;  and,  16.  ITfpt  i pvxi]Q,  De  Anima  — both  men- 
tioned by  Ensebius  (Hist.  Eccl.  iv,  18)  and  Jerome  (l.  c.). 
Besides  these  works  Justin  wrote  several  others,  of 
which  not  even  the  names  have  come  doAvn  to  us  (Eu- 
sebius, iv,  18),  but  the  following  are  ascribed  to  him  on 
insufficient  grounds.  17.  'Yrropuppara  dg  ’E^aijpfpov, 
Conmentarius  in  Ilexaemeron,  a work  of  which  a frag- 
ment, cited  from  Anastasius  Sinaita  (In  Hexaem.  lib. 
vii),  is  given  by  Grabe  (Spicil.  SS.  Patr.  vol.  s.  stee.  ii,  p. 
195)  and  Maran  (Opp.  Justin.).  Maran,  however,  doubts 
it  is  Justin’s,  and  observes  that  the  words  of  Anastasius 
do  not  imply  that  Justin  wrote  a separate  work  on  the 
subject.  18.  ITpoc  E ixppdoiov  oo<pt(jn)v  rrspi  npovoiag 
Kai- 7rifTT(ojg,  Adversus  Euphrasium  Sophistam,  de  Prov- 
identia  et  Fide,  of  which  a citation  is  preserved  by  Max- 
imus (Opus.  Polemica,  ii,  154,  ed.  Combefis).  This  trea- 
tise is  probably  the  work  of  a later  Justin.  19.  A Com- 
mentary on  the  Apocalypse.  The  supposition  that  Jus- 
tin wrote  such  a work  is  probably  founded  on  a misun- 
derstanding of  a passage  in  Jerome  (De  Viris  Illustr.  c. 
9),  who  says  that  “ J ustin  Martyr  interpreted  the  Apoe- 


JUSTIN' 


1109 


JUSTIN 


alvpse,”  but  without  saying  that  it  was  in  a separate 
work.  The  authorship  of  the  work  Ilf  pi  too  Travrog, 
De,  Unicerso , mentioned  by  Photius  (Bill.  cod.  48),  was, 
as  he  tells  us,  disputed,  some  ascribing  it  to  Justin,  but 
apparently  with  little  reason.  It  is  now  assigned  to 
Hippolytus  (q.  v.). 

“ Nearly  all  the  works  of  Justin,  genuine  and  spurious 
(viz.  all  enumerated  above  in  the  first  three  divisions, 
except  the  Oratio  ad  Grcecos  and  the  Epistola  ad  Diog- 
netum). were  published  by  Robert  Stephens,  Paris,  1551, 
fol.  This  is  the  eilitio  princeps  of  the  collected  works ; 
but  the  Cohortatio  ad  Grcecos  had  been  previously  pub- 
lished, with  a Latin  version,  Paris,  1539, 4to.  There  is 
no  discrimination  or  attempt  at  discrimination  in  this 
edition  of  Stephens  between  the  genuine  and  spurious 
works.  The  Oratio  ad  Grcecos,  and  the  Epistola  ad  Di- 
ognetum, with  a Latin  version  and  notes,  were  published 
by  Henry  Stephens,  Paris,  1592,4to,  and  again  in  1595. 
All  these  works,  real  or  supposed,  of  Justin  were  pub- 
lished, with  the  Latin  version  of  Langus,  and  notes  by 
Fred.  Sylburgius,  Heidelberg,  1593,  fol. ; and  this  edition 
was  reprinted,  Paris,  1615  and  1636,  fol.,  with  the  addi- 
tion of  some  remains  of  other  early  fathers;  and  Cologne, 
(or  rather  Wittenberg),  1686,  fol.,  with  some  further  ad- 
ditions. A far  superior  edition,  with  the  remains  of  Ta- 
tiau,  Athenagoras,  Theophilus  of  Antioch,  and  Hermias 
the  Philosopher,  with  a learned  preface  and  notes,  was 
published,  “opera  et  studio  unius  ex  Monachis  congreg. 
S.  Mauri,”  i.  e.  by  Prudentius  Mar  an  us,  or  Maran  (Paris, 
1742,  fol.).  In  this  the  genuine  pieces,  according  to  the 
judgment  of  the  editor  (Nos.  1-6  in  our  enumeration), 
are  given  in  the  body  of  the  work,  together  with  the 
Epistola  ad  Diognetum , of  the  authorship  of  which  Ma- 
ran was  in  doubt.  The  two  Apologies  were  placed  in 
their  right  order  for  the  first  time  in  this  edition.  The 
remaining  works,  together  with  fragments  which  had 
been  collected  by  Grabe  (who  had  first  published  in  his 
Spicilegium  SS.  Patrum  the  fragment  on  the  Resurrec- 
tion from  Joannes  Damascenus)  and  others,  and  the 
Martyrum  S.  Just  ini,  of  which  the  Greek  text  was  first 
published  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum,  Aprilis,  vol.  ii,  were 
given  in  the  Appendix.  From  the  time  of  Maran,  no 
complete  edition  of  Justin  was  published  until  that  of 
Otto  (Jena,  1842-44,  2 vols.  8vo ; new  edition,  1847-50, 
8 vols.  8vo).  The  first  volume  contains  the  Oratio  et 
Cohortatio  ad  Grcecos,  and  the  Apologia  Prima  and 
Apologia  Secunda.  The  second  contains  the  Dialogus 
cum  Tryphone , the  Epistola  ad  Diognetum,  the  frag- 
ments, and  the  Acta  Martyrii  Justini  et  Sociorum. 
Numerous  valuable  editions  of  the  several  pieces  ap- 
peared, chiefly  in  England.  The  Apologia  Prima  was 
edited  by  Grabe  (Oxford,  1700,  8vo) ; the  Apologia  Se- 
cunda, Oratio  ad  Grcecos , Cohortatio  ad  Grcecos,  and 
De  Monarchia,  by  Hutchin  (Oxford,  1703,  8vo);  and 
the  Dialogus  cum  Tryphone,  by  Jebb  (Lond.  1719,  8vo). 
These  three  editions  had  the  Latin  version  of  Langus, 
and  variorum  notes.  The  Apologia  Prima,  Apologia 
Secunda,  and  Dialogus  cum  Tryphone,  from  the  text  of 
Robert  Stephens,  with  some  corrections,  with  the  ver- 
sion of  Langus,  and  notes,  were  edited  by  Thirlby,  and 
published,  Lond.  1722,  folio.  It  has  been  conjectured  that 
this  valuable  edition,  though  published  under  the  name 
of  Thirlby,  was  really  by  Markland.  The  Apologia  Pri- 
ma, Apologia  Secunda.  Dialogus  cum  Tryphone,  and  the 
fragments,  are  given  in  the  first  volume  of  the  Biblio- 
theca Patrum  of  Galland.  We  do  not  profess  to  have 
enumerated  all  the  editions  of  the  Greek  text,  and  we 
have  not  noticed  the  Latin  versions.  Full  information 
will  be  found  in  the  prefaces  of  Maran  and  Otto.  There 
are  English  translations  of  the  Apologies  by  Reeves,  of 
the  Dialogue  tcith  Trypho  by  Pro  mi,  and  of  the  Exhor- 
tation to  the  Gentiles  bv  Moses.” 

Theoloyical  Vieics. — Of  the  more  striking  peculiarities 
of  Justin’s  theological  system,  we  present  the  reader 
a short  but  faithful  summary  from  the  pen  of  the  late 
professor  C.  E.  Stowe : “ There  is  in  every  man  a germ 
of  the  divine  reason,  a seed  of  the  Logos,  whereby 


man  is  related  to  God,  and  becomes  capable  of  forming 
an  idea  of  God.  By  this  spark  of  the  divine  intelli- 
gence the  better  men  among  the  pagan  philosophers 
were  illuminatod;  but  more  especially,  and  far  beyond 
these,  the  prophets  and  inspired  men  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment. Still  this  revelation  was  only  fragmentary  and 
partial.  Only  in  Christ  was  the  Logos,  the  divine  rea- 
son, perfectly  revealed.  The  Logos,  the  Word,  is  him- 
self God,  yet  from  God;  the  Word  the  First-begotten, 
the  Power,  the  primitive  Revelation  of  God.  He  is  the 
only-begotten  of  God,  yet  without  any  dividing  or  pour- 
ing forth  of  the  divine  substance,  but  begotten  solely  by 
the  will  of  the  Father.  The  Son  was  with  God  before 
the  creation;  the  Word  of  the  Father,  and  begotten 
when  God  by  him  in  the  beginning  created  and  ordered 
all  things.  As  to  his  personal  subsistence,  he  is  distinct 
from  God,  but  numerically  only,  not  essentially;  and 
subordinate  to  the  Father,  but  only  insomuch  as  he  has 
his  origin  and  being  from  the  counsel  of  the  paternal 
will.  As  he  is  the  first  revelation  of  the  Father,  so  he 
is  the  medium  of  all  the  subsequent  revelations  of  the 
divine  light  and  life.  He  is  the  Creator  and  Governor 
of  the  world,  the  universal  reason.  He  dwells  in  every 
reasonable  being,  in  different  measure,  according  to  the 
susceptibility  of  each  individual;  and  he  was  the  leader 
and  bearer  of  the  Old-Testament  theocracy.  He  is  the 
God  who  appeared  to  Moses  and  to  the  patriarchs.  He 
it  is  who  said,  I am  the  God  of  Abraham,  and  of  Isaac, 
and  of  Jacob ; and  he  was  with  such  heathen  as  Socra- 
tes, though  not  with  those  who  were  ungodly.  When 
the  fulness  of  time  had  come,  this  Word,  through  the 
Virgin,  became  flesh,  according  to  the  will  of  the  Fa- 
ther, that  he  might  participate  in  and  bear  our  infirmi- 
ties, and  take  away  from  us  the  curse  of  the  law.  In 
him  were  united  and  made  objective  the  human  reason 
and  the  divine  intelligence;  he  was  in  the  flesh  both 
man  and  God  incarnate,  and  thus  the  Saviour  of  fallen 
men.  This  is  the  true  and  the  only  safe  and  saving 
philosophy ; in  comparison  with  this,  all  other  philoso- 
phy has  only  a subordinate  value ; this  alone  works  sal- 
vation, and  here  only  can  we  recognise  the  divine,  and 
attain  to  God.  He  who  is  filled  with  the  spirit  of 
Christ  derives  not  his  knowledge  from  the  erring,  and 
imperfect,  and  fragmentary  reason,  but  from  the  fulness 
and  perfection  of  reason,  which  is  Christ  himself”  {Bib- 
liotheca Sacra,  1852,  p.  829  sq.).  As  a whole,  the  works 
of  Justin  Martyr  “everywhere  attest,”  says  Dr.  Scliaff 
( Ch . Hist,  ii,  484),  “his  honesty  and  earnestness,  his  en- 
thusiastic love  for  Christianity,  and  his  fearlessness  in 
its  defence  against  all  assaults  from  without  and  perver- 
sions from  within.  Justin  was  a man  of  very  extensive 
reading,  enormous  memory,  inquiring  spirit,  and  many 
profound  ideas,  but  wanting  in  critical  discernment.  His 
mode  of  reasoning  is  often  ingenious  and  convincing, 
but  sometimes  loose  and  rambling,  fanciful  and  puerile. 
His  style  is  easy  and  vivacious,  but  diffuse  and  careless. 
He  is  the  first  of  the  Church  fathers  to  bring  classical 
scholarship  and  Platonic  philosophy  in  contact  with  the 
Christian  theology.  He  found  hi  Platonism  many  re- 
sponses to  the  Gospel,  which  he  attributed  in  part  to  the 
fragmentary,  germ-like  revelation  of  the  Logos  before 
the  incarnation,  and  in  part  to  an  acquaintance  with 
the  Mosaic  Scriptures.  With  him  Christ  was  the  abso- 
lute reason,  and  Christianity  the  only  true  philosophy. 
His  sources  of  theological  knowledge  are  partly  the  liv- 
ing Church  tradition,  partly  the  Holy  Scriptures,  from 
which  lie  cites  most  frequently,  and  generally  from 
memory,  the  Old-Testament  prophets  (in  the  Sept.),  and 
the  4 Memorials  of  the  Apostles,’  as  he  calls  the  canoni- 
cal gospels.  He  expressly  mentions  the  revelation  of 
John.  But,  like  the  Pastor  Hcrma\  he  nowhere  notices 
Paul,  though  several  allusions  to  passages  of  his  epistles 
can  hardly  be  mistaken,  and  Justin’s  position  towards 
heathenism  was  anything  but  the  Ebionistic,  and  was 
far  more  akin  to  that  of  Paul.  Any  dogmatical  infer- 
ence from  this  silence  is  the  less  admissible,  since  hi  the 
genuine  writings  of  this  father  not  one  of  the  apostles 


1110 


JUSTINIAN  I 


JUSTIN 

or  evangelists  is  expressly  named,  but  reference  is  al- 
ways made  directly  to  Christ.  Justin’s  exegesis  of  tlie 
Old  Testament  is  typological  and  Messianic  throughout, 
tinding  references  everywhere  to  Christ.” 

See  Eusebius,  Hist.  Ecclcs.  iv,  8-13,  16-18;  Jerome, 
Ue  Vir.  Illust.  c.  23;  l‘hot.  Bill  cod.  48, 125,  232,  234; 
Martyrium  s.  Acta  J lartyrii  Justini,  apml  Acta  Sanc- 
torum, April,  vol.  ii ; and  apud  Opera  J ustini,  edit.  Maran 
and  Otto;  Halloix,  Illustrium  Eccl.  Orient.  Scriptorum 
I 'itee,  siecl.  ii,  p.  151 , etc. ; reprinted,  with  a Comment.  Pre- 
vins and  Xotee  by  Papebroche,  in  the  Acta  Sanctorum, 
April. voL  ii;  Grabe,  Spicileyium  SS.  Patrum,  ii,  133; 
Baronius,  A males,  ad  annus  ISO,  142,  143,  150,  164, 
165;  Pagi,  Critice  in  Baronium ; Cave,  History  of  Lit- 
erature, i.  60,  ed.  Oxf.  1740-43 ; the  ecclesiastical  histo- 
ries of  Tillcuiont,  ii,  344,  etc.;  Fleury,  i,  413,  etc.,  476, 
etc.;  Dupiii,  Xouvelle  Bibliotheque,  etc.;  Ceillier,  Des 
Auteurs  Sacres,  ii,  1,  etc.;  Gardner,  Credibility,  etc.; 

< )t  to,  Be  Justini  Marty ris  Scriptis;  Fabricius,  Biblioth. 
Gripc.x ii,  52,  etc.-,  Semisch,  Justin  der  Martyrer  (Bres- 
lau, 1840-2 ; translated  by  Hyland  in  the  Biblical  Cabi- 
net)-, Smith,  Bid.  of  Greek  and  Roman  Biog.  and  My- 
thology, ii,  682  sq.;  Bp.  Kaye,  Writings  ami  Opinions  of 
Justin  Martyr  (2d  ed.,  revised,  Lond.  1836,  8vo) ; Kitto, 
Journal  Sacred  Lit.v,  253  sq. ; Roberts  and  Donaldson, 
Ante-Xicene  Christian  Lib.  (Edinb.  1867, T.and  T.  Clark), 
vol.  ii ; Neander,  Church  History,  i,  661  sq. 

Justin  the  Gnostic,  who  flourished  towards  the 
close  of  the  second  century,  has  only  recently  become 
known  to  us  through  the  Philosophoumena  of  Hippolv- 
t us  (v,  22;  x,  15),  and  of  his  personal  history  and  ori- 
gin very  little  information  has  come  down  to  us.  His 
system  has  a Judaizing  cast,  and  is  mostly  based  upon 
a mystical  interpretation  of  Genesis.  He  propagated 
his  doctrines  secretly,  binding  his  disciples  to  silence 
bv  solemn  oaths.  In  his  gnosis  Justin  made  use  of 
Greek  mythology,  especially  the  tradition  of  the  twelve 
conflicts  of  Hercules,  lie  assumes  three  original  prin- 
ciples, two  male  and  one  female.  The  last  he  iden- 
tities with  Eden,  which  marries  Elohim,  and  becomes 
thus  the  mother  of  the  angels  of  the  spirit-world.  The 
tree  of  life  in  Paradise  represents  the  good,  the  tree  of 
knowledge  the  evil  angels.  The  four  rivers  are  sym- 
bols of  the  four  divisions  of  angels.  The  Naas,  or  the 
serpent-spirit,  he  made,  unlike  the  Ophites,  the  bearer 
of  the  evil  principle;  he  committed  adultery  with  Eve, 
and  a worse  crime  with  Adam ; he  adulterated  the  laws 
of  Moses  and  the  oracles  of  the  prophets;  he  nailed  Jesus 
to  the  cross.  But  by  this  crucifixion  Jesus  was  emanci- 
pated from  his  material  body,  rose  to  the  good  God  to 
whom  he  committed  his  spirit  in  death,  and  thus  became 
the  deliverer. — Sofia  ff,  Church  History,  i,  242, 243.  See 
Gnosticism. 

Justin  oe  Sicily.  See  Justinus. 

Justin  I,  or  the  Elder,  Roman  emperor  of  the  East, 
born  A.D.  450,  was  originally  a swineherd.  The  sol- 
diers of  the  Prietorian  band  forced  him  to  accept  the 
imperial  dignity  on  the  death  of  Auastasius  in  518. 
He  is  noted  in  ecclesiastical  history  for  his  interference 
in  behalf  of  the  orthodox  bishops  who  had  been  banished  I 
b\  the  Aria  ns,  but  whom  he  recalled,  and  fur  several 
edicts  which  he  published  against  the  Arians.  Hearing 
of  the  destruction  of  Antioch  by  an  eartliqnake,  be  laid 
a>ide  the  imperial  robe,  clothed  himself  in  sackcloth,  and 
] -assed  several  days  in  fasting  and  prayer,  to  avoid  di-  ! 
vine  Midgment.  He  rebuilt  that  city  and  other  places  j 
which  were  destroyed  by  the  same  calamitv.  He  died 
in  u27.  See  Smith,  Bid.  ofGr.  and  Rom.  Biog.  ii,  677  sq. 

Justina,  St.,  is  said  to  have  been  born  at  Antioch, 
of  Christian  parents,  and  to  have  suffered  martyrdom  at 
X icoinedia  in  304.  St.  Cyprian,  surnamed  the  Magician, 
is  charged  with  the  attempt  of  her  seduction  by  magic, 
and  that  her  conduct  led  him  to  embrace  the  Christian 
bntb  During  the  persecution  ordered  bv  Diocletian 
and  Maximum  they  were  arrested  together,  and,  after 
sutlcnilg  torture  with  great  tirniuess,  were  sent  to  Dio- 


cletian at  Nicomedia.  The  latter  caused  them  at  once 
to  be  beheaded.  The  Greek  Church  commemorates 
them  on  the  2d  of  October,  and  the  Roman  Church  on 
the  26th  of  September.  The  empress  Eudocia,  wife  of 
Theodosius  the  Younger,  wrote  a poem  in  three  cantos 
in  honor  of  St.  Justina  and  St.  Cyprian.  See  Photius, 
Bibliotheca,  cap.  clxxxiv ; Tillemont,  Memoires , vol.  v ; 
Dupin,  Biblioth.  des  A uteurs  Eccles.  au  troisieme  siecle ; 
Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Generate,  xxvii,  309. 

Justina  of  Padua,  St.,  patroness  of  Padua,  and, 
together  with  St.  Mark,  of  Venice  also.  According  to 
the  hagiographers,  she  was  a native  of  the  former  city, 
and  suffered  martyrdom  there  in  304,  under  Diocletian, 
and  according  to  others  under  Nero.  We  have  no  de- 
tails on  the  event,  however.  Her  relics,  which  were 
lost,  were  recovered  (?)  in  1177,  and  are  preserved  in  a 
church  of  Padua  which  bears  her  name.  In  1417  a con- 
vent of  Benedictines  in  the  neighborhood  reformed  their 
rules,  taking  the  name  of  Congregation  of  St.  Justina 
of  Padua.  This  reform  was  followed  by  another  in 
1498,  under  the  care  of  Luigi  Barbo,  a Venetian  senator, 
whom  pope  Alexander  VI  created  first  abbot  of  the  or- 
der. The  congregation  spread,  and  the  monastery  of 
Mount  Cassin,  having  joined  it  in  1504,  was  made  its 
head-quarters  by  Julius  II.  Moreri  considers  the  legend 
of  this  saint’s  miracles  as  fabulous,  yet  the  Roman  Church 
commemorates  her  on  the  7th  of  October.  See  Tille- 
mont, Hist,  de  la  Persecution  de  Biocletian,  art.  55 ; Bail- 
let,  Hes  des  Saints,  Oct.  7th. — Hoefer,  Xouv.  Biog.  Gener. 
xxvii,  310. 

Justinian  I,  the  Great  (Flavius  Anicius  Justin- 
ianus),  emperor  of  the  East,  was  born  in  483  of  an  ob- 
scure family.  He  shared  the  fortunes  of  his  uncle  Justin, 
who,  from  a common  Thracian  peasant,  was  raised  to  the 
imperial  throne,  and,  after  the  death  of  his  uncle,  Aug. 
1,  527,  was  himself  proclaimed  emperor.  He  obtained 
great  military  successes  over  the  Persians  through  his 
celebrated  general  Beli  sari  us,  destroyed  the  empire  of  the 
Vandals  in  Africa,  and  put  an  end  to  the  dominion  of 
the  Ostrogoths  in  Italy,  which  successes  restored  to  the 
Roman  empire  a part  of  its  vast  possessions.  But  Jus- 
tinian was  by  no  means  satisfied  with  the  renown  of 
a conqueror.  Learned,  unweariedly  active,  and  eccle- 
siastically devout,  he  aspired  to  the  united  renown  of 
a lawgiver,  theologian,  and  champion  of  the  genuine 
Christian  orthodoxy  as  well ; and  liis,  in  some  respects, 
brilliant  reign  of  nearly  thirty  years  is  marked  by  ear- 
nest though  unsuccessful  efforts  to  establish  the  “true 
faith”  for  all  time  to  come.  Indeed,  lie  regarded  it  as 
his  especial  mission  to  compel  a general  uniformity  of 
Christian  belief  and  practice,  but  by  his  persistency  only 
increased  the  divisions  in  church  and  state,  as  he  was 
greatly  misguided  by  his  famous  wife,  who,  though  ani- 
mated by  great  zeal  for  the  Church,  was  blindly  devoted 
to  the  Monoplivsites. 1 Yet,  however  unfortunate  the  ef- 
forts of  Justinian  in  behalf  of  Christian  orthodoxy  re- 
sulted, so  much  is  certain,  that  his  aim  was  noble  and 
lofty,  and  that  he  was  actuated  by  the  holiest  of  pur- 
poses. It  is  said  of  him  that  he  spent  whole  nights  in 
prayer  and  fasting,  and  in  theological  studies  ami  dis- 
cussions, and  that  he  placed  his  throne  under  the  espe- 
cial protection  of  the  Virgin  Mary  and  the  archangel 
Michael.  He  adorned  the  capital  and  the  provinces  with 
costly  temples  and  institutions  of  charity.  Among  the 
churches  which  he  rebuilt  was  that  of  St.  Sophia  at 
Constantinople,  which  had  been  burned  in  one  of  the 
civil  commotions.  This  church  is  esteemed  a master- 
piece of  architecture.  The  altar  was  entirely  of  gold 
and  silver,  and  adorned  with  a vast  number  and  variety 
of  precious  stones.  It  was  by  this  emperor  that  the  fifth 
(Ecumenical  Council  was  convened  at  Constantinople 
(A.D.  553)  to  secure  the  end  for  which  Justinian  was 
personally  laboring — the  union  of  the  Church  and  the 
extirpation  of  heresies.  His  fame,  however,  rests  chief- 
ly on  his  great  ability  as  legislator.  Determined  to  col- 
lect all  previous  legislative  Roman  enactments,  he  in- 


JUSTINUS 


/ 


1111 


JUSTUS 


trusted  to  a number  of  the  ablest  lawyers  of  Rome,  un- 
der the  direction  of  the  renowned  Tribonianus,  the  task 
of  a complete  revision  and  digested  collection  of  the 
Roman  law  from  the  time  of  Hadrian  to  his  own  reign; 
and  thus  arose,  after  the  short  lapse  of  seven  years,  the 
celebrated  Codex  Justinianeus , “ which  thenceforth  be- 
came the  universal  law  of  the  Roman  empire,  the  sole 
text-book  in  the  academies  at  Rome,  Constantinople, 
and  Berytus,  and  the  basis  of  the  legal  relations  of  the 
greater  part  of  Christian  Europe  to  this  day.”  This 
body  of  Roman  law,  which  is  “ an  important  source  of 
our  knowledge  of  the  Christian  life  in  its  relations  to 
the  state  and  its  influence  upon  it,”  opens  with  the  im- 
perial creed  on  the  Trinity  (for  which,  see  Schaff,  Church 
History,  iii,7G9)  and  the  imperial  anathema  against  the 
prominent  Christian  heretics.  The  whole  collections  of 
Justinian  are  now  known  under  the  style  of  Corpus  Juris 
Civilis,  The  editions  with  Gothofredus’s  notes  are  much 
esteemed.  The  four  books  of  Justinian’s  Institutions 
were  translated  into  English,  with  notes,  by  George  Har- 
ris, LL.D.  (Lond.  2d  ed.  1701 , 4to,  Lat.  and  Engl.).  J us- 
tinian  also  wrote  a libellus  confession  is  fidei,  and  a hymn 
( opoytvriQ  nloc  kcii  X oyeg  tov  &eov,  etc.).  (J.  H.W.) 


Justlnus  of  Sicily,  bishop  of  one  of  the  sees  in 
that  island  in  the  latter  part  of  the  fifth  century,  was 
present  at.  a council  held  at  Rome  A.D.  483  or  484,  under 
pope  Felix  III, in  which  Petrus  Fullo  (rVa0£t>c),  or  Peter 
the  Fuller,  was  condemned  as  a heretic  for  having  added 
to  the  “ trisagion”  the  heretical  words  “ who  suffered  for 
us.”  Several  bishops,  among  whom  was  Justin,  desirous 
of  recalling  Peter  from  his  errors,  addressed  letters  to 
him.  Justin’s  letter  to  Peter,  in  the  original  Greek,  with 


name  among  the  Jews,  equivalent  to  Josephus, 

Life,  9,  C5,  76),  the  name  or  surname  of  several  men. 
Sehottgen  (II or.  Hebr.  in  Act.  A p.)  shows  by  quotations 
from  Rabbinical  writers  that  this  name  was  not  unusual 
among  the  Jews. 

1.  Another  name  for  Joseph  (q.  v.),  sumamed  Bak- 
sabas,  who  was  one  of  the  two  selected  as  candidates 
for  the  vacant  apostolate  of  Judas  (Acts  i,  23). 

2.  A proselyte  at  Corinth,  in  whose  house,  adjoining 
the  synagogue,  Paul  preached  to  the  Gentiles  after  leav- 
ing the  synagogue  (Acts  xviii,  7).  A.D.  49. 

3.  Otherwise  called  Jesus,  a Jewish  Christian,  named 

in  connection  with  Mark  by  Paul  as  being  his  only  fel- 
low-laborers at  Rome  when  he  wrote  to  the  Colossians 
(Col.  iv,  11).  A.I).  57.  Tradition  (Acta  Sanctorum, 

Jun.  iv,  67)  names  him  as  the  bishop  of  Eleutheropolis ! 

Justus,  St.,  is  the  name  of  a Christian  martyr  who, 
with  his  brother  Pastor  (aged  respectively  twelve  and 
nine  years),  when  the  persecution  of  Diocletian  against 
the  Christians  began,  in  the  face  of  certain  martyrdom 
boldly  avowed  himself  a Christian.  For  this  alone  they 
were  cruelly  flogged ; and  Dacian,  at  that  time  the  gov- 
ernor of  Spain,  enraged  at  their  courageous  resignation, 
finally  caused  them  to  be  beheaded. 

Another  St.  Justus,  celebrated  in  history,  was  bishop 
of  Lyons,  in  France.  His  life  gives  us  an  insight  into 
the  customs  of  the  4tli  century.  The  monks,  both  in 
the  East  and  the  West,  sought  at  that  time  to  prevent 
as  far  as  possible  capital  punishment,  and  often  repre- 
sented those  who  had  undergone  it  in  punishment  of 
their  crimes  as  martyrs.  A man  who,  in  an  excess  of 
rage,  had  killed  several  persons  in  the  streets  of  Lyons, 
fled  to  the  bishop’s  church  for  protection.  Justus,  in  or- 
der to  shield  him,  delivered  him  into  the  hands  of  the 
authorities  on  the  condition  that  he  should  be  but  light- 
ly punished,  but  the  mob  took  him  out  of  the  hands  of 
the  officers  and  killed  him.  Justus,  considering  him- 
self responsible  for  the  death  of  this  man,  and  1 ence- 
forth  unworthy  of  his  office,  fled  to  Egypt,  where  he  re- 
mained unknown  in  a convent,  aud  there  died  about  390. 

Another  St.  Justus,  a native  of  Rome,  followed  St.  Au- 
gustine in  his  mission  to  England,  and  became,  in  624, 
archbishop  of  Canterbury.  He  died  Nov.  10, 627. — Her- 
zog, Real-Encyklop.  s.  v. 

Justus  of  Tiberias  (in  Galilee),  son  of  Pistus, 
one  of  the  most  noteworthy  Jewish  historians,  flour- 
ished in  the  beginning  of  the  Christian  sera.  He  was 
in  the  employ  of  king  Agrippa  as  private  secretary 
when  the  revolution  in  Galilee  broke  out,  and  though 
the  city  of  Tiberias  had  been  especially  favored  by  the 
king,  the  Tiberian  Jews  soon  followed  in  the  course  of 
their  neighbors,  and  many  gathered  under  Pistus  and 
his  son  Justus,  who,  besides  the  advantage  of  a Greek 


ineness  of  this  letter,  and  of  six  others  of  similar  charac- 
ter from  various  Eastern  c 
also  given  in  the  ( 
servat.  Eccles.  ad  1 

Antiochen  Epi^cop.  c.  4),  but  defended  by  Cave  (Hist. I ^1^7  - 


Litt.  i,  458),  who,  however,  contends  that  the  Greek  text 
is  not  the  original,  but  a version  from  the  Latin.  Pagi 
(Critici  in  Baronii  Annates , ad  ann.  485,  c.  15)  proposes 
to  correct  the  reading  of  the  title  of  Justin’s  letter  from 
“Episcopi  in  Sicilia”  to  “ Episcopi  in  Cilicia;”  others 
would  read  the  name  “Justinian ns,”  but  on  what  au- 
thority we  do  not  know.  Dodwell  and  others  aseribe 
to  this  Jnstin  the  Responsiones  ad  Ortkodoxos,  and  the 
Expositio  Recta  Confessionis,  reputed  to  be  by  Jnstin 
Martyr,  and  printed  with  his  works.  See  Fabricius, 
Bibl.  Gr.  vii,  53 ; xi,  661 ; xii,  655, — Smith,  Diet.  Greek 
and  Roman  Biog.  s.  v. 


came  still  more  unjustly  severe  after  the  latter  had  ven- 
tured to  write  a history  of  the  war,  now  unhappily  lost,  in 
which  the  treacherous  action  of  Josephus  was  laid  bare. 
Indeed,  Josephus  himself  makes  the  only  avowed  object 
of  the  publication  of  his  “life”  his  vindication  from  the 
calumnies  of  Justus,  who  is  accused  of  having  falsified 
the  history  of  the  war  with  Rome  (comp.  Josephus,  be 
vita  sua,  § 37,  65,  74),  as  well  as  of  having  delayed  the 
editing  of  the  book  until  the  decease  of  Agrippa  an 
the  other  great  men  of  the  time,  becausfc  his  recounts 
were  false,  and  he  feared  the  consequences  ofJniS  un- 


justness and  nntruthfidness.  Justus,  according  to  Pho- 
Jus'tus  (Toforoc,  for  Lat.  Justus,  just ; a freqnent  tius  (Bibl.  cod.  33),  also  wrote  a history  of  the  Jews 

erdnLaj  X ; 

4(G  jyG,Cnsv.  * N 
ans  livrwG.: 3 


1112 


JUXON 


JUTLAND 

from  the  times  of  Moses  down  to  the  death  of  Herod,  in 
the  third  vear  of  the  reign  of  Trajan, but  this  work  also  is 
unfortunately  lost.  Some  writers  (Eusebius,  Hist.  Eccles. 
iii,9;  Stephanus  Byzant.  s.  v.  Tifitpiag)  speak  of  a spe- 
cial work  of  bis  on  the  Jewish  \\  ar,  but  this  may  refer 
only  to  the  last  portion  of  his  chronicle,  which  Diogenes 
Laertius  ^ii,41)  calls  a Eriftpa.  Suidas  (s.v.  'lovarog) 
mentions  some  other  works  of  Justus,  of  which,  however, 
nothing  is  extant.  See  Griitz,  Gesch.  derJuden,  iii,  397 
sq. ; Stud.  und  Krit.  1853,  p.  56  sq.  (J.  H.  W .) 

Jutland,  a province  of  Denmark,  contains,  since  the 
Peace  ofVienna  of  Oct.  30, 1864,  which  regulated  the  fron- 
tier between  Denmark  and  Germany,  9716  square  miles, 
and  in  1*70  had  787,927  inhabitants.  It  constitutes  the 
northern  part  of  the  Cimbrian  peninsula,  and  is  bounded 
on  the  north  by  the  Skagerrack,  on  the  east  by  the  Kat- 
tegat, on  the  south  by  Schleswig,  and  on  the  west  by 
the  German  Sea.  Originally  the  Cimbri  arc  said  to 
have  lived  there : subsequently  the  country  was  occupied 
by  the  Juts,  a Saxon  tribe.  At  the  beginning  of  the 
loth  century  it  was  conquered  by  the  Danish  king  Gorm, 
and  since  then  it  has  been  a part  of  the  kingdom  of 
Denmark.  Christianity  was  introduced  into  Jutland  by 
Ansgar  (<j.  v.),  and  the  Christianization  of  the  country 
was  completed  within  a comparatively  short  period. 
The  first  church  was  erected  at  Ribe.  The  Reforma- 
tion was  first  carried  through  in  the  city  of  Viborg  by 
the  efforts  of  llans  Yansen,  a young  peasant  from  the 
island  of  Fuhnen.  Jutland  has  now  four  Lutheran  di- 
oceses— Aalborg,  Viborg,  Aarhuus,  and  Ribe.  See  Den- 
MAKk.  (A.  J.  S.) 

Jut'tah  (Hebrew  Yutah',  Josh,  xv,  55,Vulg. 
Jot  a ; or  Yuttah’,  ~ perhaps  inclined,  otherwise  i.  q. 
Jot  ball.  Josh,  xxi,  16,  Vnlg.  Jeta ; Sept.  Ttrra  v.  r.  ’Iran 
and  Tni'u),  a Levitical  city  in  the  mountains  of  Judah, 
named  in  connection  with  Ziph,  Jezreel,  etc.,  in  the 
neighborhood  of  Maon  and  Carmel  (Josh,  xv,  55).  It 
was  allotted  to  the  priests  (xxi,  16),  but  in  the  catalogue 
of  1 ( 'hron.  vi,  57-59,  the  name  has  escaped.  Eusebius 
( Onomast . s.  v.)  calls  it  a large  village  by  the  name  of 
Jet  tan  (’I  trrdv),  and  places  it  eighteen  miles  south  of 
Eleuthoropulis,  in  the  district  of  Daromas  (the  south). 
It  is  doubtless  the  village  discovered  by  Dr.  Robinson 
(Researches,  ii,  628),  four  miles  south  of  Hebron,  and 
still  called  Yutta,  having  the  appearance  of  a large  Mo- 
hammedan town,  on  a low  eminence,  with  trees  around, 
and  where  the  guides  spoke  of  the  existence  of  old 
foundations  and  former  walls.  Schwarz  calls  it  Zataya. 
his  l'ulest.  p.  106,  and  Sectzen  Jitta  on  his  map. 

“The  selection  of  Juttali  as  a city  of  the  priests  sug- 
gests the  idea  of  its  having  already  been  a place  of  im- 
portance, which  is  seemingly  confirmed  by  early  and 
numerous  allusions  to  it  in  the  inscriptions  on  the  Egyp- 
tian monuments.  There  it  appears  to  be  described  un- 
der the  names  Tali,  Tah-n,  and  Tah-n-nu,  as  a fortress 
of  the  Anakim  near  Arba  or  Hebron  ; and  it  is  not  a lit- 
tle remarkable  that  another  Egyptian  document,  the 
fvptuagint,  expresses  the  word  in  almost  the  selfsame 
mr.mier,  'iron  ami  Java  (Jour.  Sac.  Lit.  April  and  July, 
18o2,  j).  <3,  316,  317)”  (Fairbairn,  s.v.). 

1 he  “city  of  Juda”  (Luke  i,  39),  whither  Mary  went 
io  visit  Elizabeth,  the  mother  of  John  the  Baptist(f<e 
ttoAm-  I occu ),  and  where  Zecharias  therefore  appears 
to  have  resided,  has  usually  been  supposed  to  mean  IIc- 
broir;  ut.  if  the  reading  be  correct,  the  proper  rendering 
vv.)u'd  bo  "to  the  city  Judah,”  i.  c.  its  capital,  or  Jeru- 
salem (m'o  Uornemann,  Sckol.  in  Luc.  p.  12),  notwith- 
standing the  absence  of  the  article  (Winer’s  Urammat. 

. 1 ■ 1'-  Unt,  a*  this  was  not  intended  (see  Rob. 

V alesnis,  Ipist.  ad  Casauoon.  1613,  p.  669),  Reland  (Pa- 
ast.  p.  n.o)  has  suggested  a conjectural  reading  of  “ Jut- 
ih  forV./W/.It"  ( loerct  for  loi'cVi)  in  the  above  pas- 
sage 'v-ukt;,, widen  has  met  with  favor  among  critics 
(see  1 1 are  n berg,  in  the  Xov.  Miscell.  Lips,  iv,  595;  Pau- 
lus,  Kmieit,  iik'Joc.),  although  no  various  reading  exists 

justify  it:'  b 


Juvencus,  Caius  Vettius  Aqutlixus,  one  of  the 
earliest  Church  historians  and  Christian  poets,  a native 
of  Spain,  was  a contemporary  of  Constantine,  and  a pres- 
byter of  the  Church.  Living  at  the  time  when  Chris- 
tianity ascended  the  throne  of  the  Caesars,  he  attempted 
to  clothe  the  recital  of  Biblical  events  in  the  classic  and 
elegant  style  of  the  best  profane  writers.  About  330  he 
composed  his  Ilistoria  ev angelica,  a work  in  four  books, 
dedicated  to  Constantine.  It  is  the  reproduction  of  the 
Gospels  in  Latin  hexameters,  following  the  text  closely, 
especially  St.  Matthew’s,  and  in  the  style  imitating  Lu- 
cretius, Ovid,  and  especially  Virgil,  thus  making  a sort  of 
epic  poem,  after  the  model  of  the  vEneid.  “ The  liberal 
praises  bestowed  upon  Juvencus  by  divines  and  schol- 
ars, from  St.  Jerome  down  to  Petrarch,  must  be  under- 
stood to  belong  rather  to  the  substance  of  the  piece 
than  to  the  form  in  which  the  materials  are  presented. 
We  may  honor  the  pious  motive  which  prompted  the 
undertaking,  and  we  may  bestow  the  same  commenda- 
tion upon  the  laborious  ingenuity  with  which  every  par- 
ticular recorded  by  the  sacred  historians,  and  frequently 
their  very  words,  are  forced  into  numbers,  but  the  very 
plan  of  the  composition  excludes  all  play  of  fancy  and 
all  poetical  freedom  of  expression,  while  the  versifica- 
tion, although  fluent  and  generally  harmonious,  too  of- 
ten bids  defiance  to  the  laws  of  prosody,  and  the  lan- 
guage, although  evidently  in  many  places  copied  from 
the  purest  models,  betrays  here  and  there  evident  indi- 
cations of  corruption  and  decay.  The  idea  that  this 
production  might  be  employed  with  advantage  in  the 
interpretation  of  the  Scriptures,  inasmuch  as  it  may  be 
supposed  to  exhibit  faithfully  the  meaning  attached  to 
various  obscure  passages  in  the  early  age  to  which  it 
belongs,  will  not,  upon  examination,  be  found  to  merit 
much  attention”  (Professor  Ramsay,  in  Smith,  ut  in- 
fra). He  also  wrote  parts  of  the  Old  Testament  in  the 
same  manner,  but  of  these  we  know  only  his  Liber  in 
Genesin  (according  to  Jerome,  De  script,  ill.  84,  he  wrote 
“nonnulla  eodem  metro  ad  sacramentorum  ordinemper- 
tinentia”).  The  Ilistoria  ev  angelica  was  first  printed 
by  Deventer,  s.  1.  (probably  1490) ; then  often  reprint- 
ed, as  in  the  Collectio  vet.  Poet.  eccl.  of  Fabricins  (Basil. 
1564) ; the  Bibl.  M.  Lugd.  iv,  55  sq. ; by  E.  Reusch 
(Francfort  and  Lpz.  1710)  ; and  later  from  a manuscript 
m the  collection  of  the  Vatican  by  F.  Arevale  (Rome, 
1792, 4to),  and  in  the  first  book  of  Gebser.  Extracts  of 
the  Genesis  were  given  in  Martene’s  Xov.  Collect,  tom. 
ix;  and  lately  J.  B.  Pitra,  in  his  Spicilegium  Solesmense 
(Paris,  Didot,  1852 ; comp.  Prolegg.  xlii  sq.),  published 
both  these  verses  from  the  Genesis,  and  other  fragments 
from  the  Old  Testament,  forming  6000  verses,  and  gain- 
ed great  credit  by  his  efforts  to  prove  their  authenticity 
as  works  of  Juvencus.  See  Sclirockh,  Kirchengesch.  v, 
277 ; Fabricius,  Bibl.  med.  et  inf.  Lat.  iv,  212;  Gebser,  l)e 
Juvenci  vita  et  scriptis  adj.lib.i  hist.evang.  (Jena,  1827) ; 
Biihr,  Rom.  Idt.  Gesch.  (Suppl.  i)  ; Smith,  Diet.  Gr/c.  and 
Rom.  Biog.  ii,  s.  v. 

Juxon,  William,  a celebrated  English  prelate,  dis- 
tinguished for  his  faithfulness  to  the  unfortunate  king 
Charles,  was  born  at  Chichester  in  1582,  and  was  edu- 
cated at  St.  John’s  College,  Oxford,  where  he  obtained  a 
fellowship  in  1598.  He  first  studied  law,  but  afterwards 
altered  his  mind,  took  orders,  and  was  presented  in  1609 
to  the  vicarage  of  St.  Giles,  Oxford,  together  with  which, 
after  1614,  he  held  the  rectory  of  Somerton.  In  1621  he 
was  chosen  president  of  his  college,  after  which  he  rose 
rapidly,  through  the  interest  of  archbishop  Laud,  being 
successively  appointed  dean  of  Worcester,  clerk  of  the 
closet,  hisliop  of  Hereford,  dean  of  the  Chapel  Royal, 
and,  in  1633,  bishop  of  London.  The  sweetness  of  his 
temper,  the  kindness  and  courtesy  of  his  manners,  and 
his  uniform  benevolence,  made  bishop  Juxon  a general 
favorite,  and  archbishop  Laud  fixed  upon  him  as  a fit 
P'  «on  to  hold  a secular  office  under  government.  This 
was  one  of  Laud’s  fatal  errors.  He  did  not  perceive 
and  make  allowance  for  the  change  of  public  opinion. 
Bishops  had,  before  the  Reformation,  become  great  men 


JUXOX 


1113 


JUXON 


by  holding  secular  appointments,  and  the  archbishop 
thought  to  restore  the  order  to  its  ancient  importance 
in  men’s  eyes  by  reverting  to  the  exploded  system.  He 
forgot  that  bishops  held  secular  offices  formerly  from  the 
necessity  of  the  ease,  and  because  there  were  not  a suf- 
ficient number  of  the  laity  qualified,  and  that  the  fact 
itself,  though  necessary,  was  still  an  evil,  since  it  inter- 
fered with  their  higher  and  spiritual  duties.  In  Laud’s 
own  time  the  laity  were  better  qualified  than  the  clergy 
for  office,  and  the  appointment  of  the  clergy  was  justly 
offensive,  both  as  an  insult  to  the  laity,  and  as  leading 
the  people  to  suppose  that  the  bishops  had  nothing  to 
do  in  their  dioceses.  Under  this  false  policy,  in  1625 
Juxon  was  appointed  to  the  post  of  lord  high  treasurer, 
the  highest  office  at  that  time  in  the  kingdom,  and  next 
in  precedence  to  that  of  the  archbishop  and  to  the  great 
seal,  which  had  not  been  held  by  a clergyman  since  the 
reign  of  Henry  VII.  In  1641  he  resigned  this  office, 
which,  it  was  admitted  by  all  parties,  he  had  held  with- 
out reproach.  The  general  harmlessness  of  his  charac- 
ter enabled  him  to  remain  for  the  most  part  undisturbed 
at  Fulham.  Nevertheless,  he  remained  firm  to  his  prin- 
ciples, and  steady  in  his  loyalty  to  the  king,  by  whom 
he  was  frequently  consulted.  He  was  in  attendance 
upon  the  king  at  the  treaty  in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  in 
1648,  and  during  the  king’s  trial  acted  as  his  spiritual 
adviser.  Bishop  Juxon  was  also  in  attendance  upon  the 
king  in  his  last  hours  upon  the  scaffold.  Juxon  con- 
tinued in  his  position  until  the  abolition  of  kingly  gov- 
ernment, by  the  House  of  Lords,  and  the  establishment 
of  a Commonwealth.  He  then  retired  to  his  own  estate, 


the  manor  of  Little  Compton,  in  Gloucestershire,  where 
he  passed  his  days  in  a private  and  devout  condition. 
At  the  Restoration,  aged  as  he  was,  he  was  appointed, 
we  might  almost  say  by  acclamation,  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury in  1660.  He  was  not  able  to  exert  himself 
much  in  his  spiritual  office,  but  he  was  a benefactor  to 
the  sec,  for  during  the  short  time  he  held  the  archbish- 
opric he  expended  on  the  property  fifteen  thousand 
pounds;  he  moreover  augmented  the  vicarages,  the 
great  tithes  of  which  were  appropriated  to  the  see.  He 
died  June  4, 1663.  By  his  last  will,  archbishop  Juxon 
bequeathed  £7000  to  his  alma  mater.  He  left  also  £100 
to  the  parish  of  St.  Giles,  of  which  he  had  been  vicar; 
the  same  sum  to  four  other  parishes  in  Oxford,  and  sums 
for  the  repair  of  St.  Paul’s  and  Canterbury  Cathedrals, 
and  other  charitable  uses,  in  all  to  the  amount  of  £5000. 
Wood  tells  us  that  he  was  a man  of  primitive  sanctity, 
wisdom,  piety,  learning,  patience,  charity,  and  all  apos- 
tolical virtues.  Whitelock  says  of  him  that  he  was  a 
comely  person,  of  an  active  and  lively  disposition,  of 
great  parts  and  temper,  full  of  ingenuity  and  meekness, 
not  apt  to  give  offence  to  any,  and  willing  to  do  good  to 
all ; of  great  moderation,  sincerity,  and  integrity,  inso- 
much that  he  was  the  delight  of  his  time.  He  wrote  a 
Sermon  on  Luke  xviii,  31 : — a treatise,  entitled  XcipiQ  uni 
Eippvtj,  or  Some  Considerations  upon  the  Act  of  Uni- 
formity (London,  1662,  4to).  In  this  work  he  shows 
himself  to  be  no  friend  to  the  seheme  of  a comprehen- 
sion. A catalogue  of  books  in  England,  alphabetically 
digested  (Lond.  1658),  bears  his  name.  See  Hook,  Ec- 
clts.  Biog . s.  v.  (J.  H.  W.) 


ni 

J7 

,17 

’1S 


perdnlia.'.^ 

. perjus..  / 5; 
. • 40S  ’Hypocrisy. 

runs  iOQ  ii« ! 


■iginins.  4ns  ir‘\ 


il 

Sir 

-(4; 


lus,  K , 
to 


LIST  OF  ARTICLES  IN  VOL  IY. 


Hang  Apologetical 

Society Page 

naahashteri 

Jlaan  

Haas 

Habaiah 

Ilabakkuk 

Habazaniah 

Habbacuc 

Habergeon 

llaberkoru 

Habert 

Habit 

Habitation 

llabor 

llachaiiah 

llachilah. . 

Haclimoni. 

Hacker,  John 

Hacket,  William.. .. 

H ackley 

llackspan 

Hadad,  1 

Hadad,  2 

Hadad,  3 

Hadad,  4 

Hadad,  5 

Hadad,  6 

Hadad-ezer 

Hadad-rimmon 

Had  nr,  1 

Hadar,  2 

lladarezer 

Hadashab 

Hadassah 

Hadattah 

Haddock 

Hades 

II  ad  id 

Hadj 

Hadlai 

Hadoram,  l 

II  adorn  in,  2 

Hadoram,  3 

Hadraeh 

Hadriaims 

Hiemorrhoids 

Haemstede 

Hcerelico  combu- 

rendo 

Hal'enreffer 

Haffncr 

Haft 

llnftorah 

Hagnb 

Hagaba 

Ilagauy 

llagar 

Hagareue 

Ilagenan,  Confer- 
ence of 

Ilagerite 

llaggadah 

1 1 aggai 

Haggai,  Prophecy 

of 

Haggeri 

Haggerty 

Haggi 

Haggiah 

Ilaggite 

Haggith 

Hagia 

Hagiographa 

Hahn,  August 

Hahn,  Heinrich  Au- 
gust  

Hahn,  Michael 

Hail  1 

Hail 

llaime 

Hair 

Hake  will 

Hakim  Ben-Allah.. 

Jlakkatan 

Haknpha 


Ilalah Page 

Halak 

Haldane,  James  Al- 
exander  

Haldane,  Robert . . . 

Hale,  John 

Hale,  Sir  Matthew.. 

Hales  

Half-communion. .. 
Half-way  Covenant. 

Halhul. 

Hall 

Halicarnassus 

4 Hall 

4 Hall,  Charles 

5 Hall,  Gordon 

5 Hall,  Joseph 

5 Hall,  Peter 

5 Hall,  Kichard 

fi|  Ilall,  Robert 

6 Ilallel 

6 Hallelujah 

0 Hallelujah,  Chris- 
71  tian 

7 Ilaller,  Albrecht  von 

7 Haller,  Berthold 

7 Ilaller,  Karl  Ludwig 
7 1 von 

7 Hallet 

S Hallilax 

8 Hallohesh 

8 Hallow 

8 Halt 

8 Halyburton 

S Ilam,  1 

8 Ham,  2 

8 Ilam,  3 

9 Ilamaker 

11  Human 

11  Ilamaim 

11  Hamath 

11  Hamath,  Entrance 

12  of 

12  Ilamathite 

12  Ilamalh-Zobah 

12  Ilambroeck 

13  Hamelmann 

13  Hamilton,  James... 
Hamilton,  Patrick.. 

14  Hamilton,  Richard 

14  Winter 

14  Hamilton,  Samuel . . 

15  Hamilton,  Sir  Will- 

15)  iam 

15  Hamline 

15,  Rumman 

15  Ilammath 

15  Hammedalha 

16  Hummelech 

Hummer 

IS  Hammerlin 

IS  Ilammer-Purgstull. 

IS  Ilammoleketh 

IS  Mammon,  1 

Hammon,  2 

19  Hammond 

19  Hammoth-dor 

19  Ilamon 

20  Hamouah 

20  Ilamon  -gog 

20  II amor.. 

20  Hampden 

20  Ilamiie) 

20  Hamul 

21  IJamulite 

II  annual 

21  Ilanameel 

22,  Hunan,  1 

22  Hanan,  2 

22  Hanan,  3 

22  Hanan,  4 

23  Ilanan,  5 

20  Hanan,  G 

26  Hanan,  7 

2(1  Hananecl 

2G1Hauani,  1 


Hanani,  2 Page 

Ilauani,  3 

Ilauaniah,  1.... 
Hanauiah,  2.... 
Ilauaniah,  3.... 

Hanauiah,  4 

Hanauiah,  5.... 

Hanauiah,  6 

Ilauaniah,  1 .... 

28  Hanauiah,  S. . . . 

2S  Hanauiah,  9 

“‘Hanauiah,  10. . . 
Ilauaniah,  H... 
Ilauaniah, 12. .. 
Hanauiah,  13. .. 

Hanby 

Hancock 

Hand 

Hand-breadth.. 

Handel 

Handful 

Handicraft 

Handkerchief .. 

Handle 

Handmaid 

Hand-staff 

Ilandschuli  .... 

Hanes 

33  Hanging  (a  pnnish- 
331  meat) 

33  Hanging  (a  curtain) 

33|Hanmer 

34  Hannah 

34  Hannah,  John. . 

34  Ilannathon 

43  Ilanniel,  1 

43  Ilanniel,  2 

43lIauochite 

44  Ilanan,  1 

44  llanun,  2 

45  Hamm,  3 

Hamvay 

4G  llaphraim 

47  illaphtiirah 

47  Ilara 

47i  Ilaradah 

47  Haran,  1 

47  Haran,  2 

47  Haran,  3 

Haran,  4 

4S  Ilara  rite 

48  Harbaugh 

i Ilarbona 

4S  Harden  berg, 

5!  brecht  

52  Hardenberg,  Jac 

52  busR....' 

52  Harding,  Stephen. 
52:  Harding,  Thomas. 

52  llardoniii 

52  Hardwick 

53  Hardy,  Nathaniel. 

53  Hardy,  Robei 

53  Spence 

53  Hardy,  Samuel. . . 

53  II are 

54  Hare,  Augustus  Will- 

54  iam 

54  Hare,  Edward 

54  Hare,  Francis  — 

54  Hare,  Julius  Charles 

54  II arel 

55  Haven 

55  Ilarepb 

55  Hareth 

55  Harhainh 

55  Ilarhur 

55  Haritn,  1 

55  Harim,  2 

55  Ha  rim,  3 

55  Harim,  4 

55  Harim,  5 

55  Harim,  G 

55  Ilariph,  1 

55  Ilariph.  2 

55Harly-C'hauvaliou 


Al- 


55'IIarlot Page  75inate Page  9G 

55  Hanner 7G  Hatliath 90 

5G  Harmony 76jIIatiplia 9G 

5G  Harms,  Clans 82  Ilatita 9G 

56  Harms,  Louis S21Hatsiham  • Menu- 

56  Harncpher S4!  choth 9G 

56  Harness,  1 84  Hattemists 96 


5G  Harness,  2... 
56  Harness,  3.. 
56  Harness,  4.. 

50|Havod 

56  Harodite . . . 
56  Ilnrorite . 


S4  Ilattil 97 

84  Ilatto,  1 97 

S4  Hat  to,  2 97 

84  Ilatto,  3 97 

85iIIattush,  1 97 

8ft  Hat  lush,  2 97 

50  Harosheth SSAIattnsh.S 97 

56  Harp SftjHattush,  4 97 

56  Ilarphius 87  Ilattnsh,  5 97 

57  Harpsfeld 8S|Hauge 97 

57  Harpsfield Ss  Ilauran 97 

58  Harris,  Howell 88  Hausmann 9S 

ftslHarris,  John  (1)....  88|IIautefage 9S 

58  Harris,  John  (2) SS  Havelock 9S 

59  Harris,  Robert SOlHavcu 98 

Cl  Harris,  Samuel 89  Havens 99 

02  Harris,  Thaddeus  lllaveruick 99 

G2  Mason SOlllavilali,  1 99 

62i Harris,  Walter S9  Ilavilah,2 99 

62  Harris, William  (1)..  S9|IIavoth-Jair 100 

02  Harris, William  (2)..  SOjHaweis 100 

Harrison 89  Ilawes loO 

63'Harrow 89  Hawk 101 

63  Harsha 90  Hawker 102 

63  Harsuet 90  Hawkins 102 

63  Hart 90  Hawks,  Cicero  Ste- 

64  Hart,  Levi 91  phen 102 

G4  Hart,  Oliver OLHnwks,  Francis 

64  Hartley 91  Lister 102 

64  Ilartlib 92  Hawley 103 

64  Hartmann 92  Hay 103 

64  Ilartwig 92  Haydn 103 

65  Hamm 93  Ilaymo 103 

65  Harumaph 93  Haynes 104 

65  Haruphite 93  llayti 104 

Oft  Harnz 93  Ilazael 104 

65  Harvard 93  Ilazaiah 105 

69  Harvest 93  Hazar- 105 

G9  Harwood 94  Hazar-nddar 105 

G9  Ilascall 94  Hazar-enan 105 

69  Ilasadiah 94'IIazar-gaddah 105 

70  Hasenkainp. Johann  Hazar-hatticon 105 

70  Gerhard... 94  Ilazarmaveth 105 

70  Ilasenkamp,  Fried-  |Hazar-shnal 100 


70  rich  Arnold 94  llazar-susah, 

7l:IIasenkamp, Johann  Hazel mo 

Heinrich 94  Ilazelelponi 107 

71  Hasemiah,  1 94llnzelius 107 

llasenuah,2 94'Ilazer 107 

71  llashabiah,  1 95  Haze  rim 107 

71  llashabiah,  2 95  Hazeroth 107 

71  Hashahiah,  3 95  Hazezou-tamar.. . . 10S 

71  llashabiah,  4 95  Ilaziel 10S 

71  llashabiah,  5 95  Ilazo 108 

72  llashabiah,  G 95  Hazor,  1 108 

llashabiah,  7 95  Hazor,  2 109 

72  llashabiah,  S 95  Hazor,  3 109 

72  llashabiah,  9 95  Hazor,  4 •»•.,  109 

72  Hashabnah 95  Hazor,  5 J09 

Hashabniah,  1 95  Hazor,  G ....:.  ,>£>109 

73  llashabniah,  2 95  Head (,  ,>,109 

73  Ilashbadana 95, Head-band VSW 

73  Hashem 95  Head-dress 

73  Haslimaunim 95  Head  of  the  Church  .113 

74  Ha-hmonah 95  Heal ' <13 

74  Ilashub,  1 95  Heap y a4 

74  Ilaslmb,  2 95  Hearers 

74  Hashub,  3 95  Hearse. . . . . . >•-.  R'j 

- m 


. 74  Ilashubah 95  Heart . 


, -117 

74  Haskell 95  Heat. 1/flS 

74  Haspeya 95  Heath 2jlis 

74  Ilasrah 96  Heath,  Asa if  119 

74  Ilasse 9G  Ileathcote.....  ■-  ■•L-i19 

74  Hasnpha 9G  Heathen ®3^7  ,'o 

74  Hat 96  Heaveu  ...  / < ^22 

74  Ilatach 96  Heav5>.''and-/;u4C 

74  Hatchment gC  Hea^^pflTeri"-  .441 

1 j perui**..  as  Ur 

. t'ppCl'isy. 

IV.  _ •ktiuv,;  40S,.)yp(>ci  it< 

- ..  i .xiolaus  40 s Hyponoia 


1116 

Heave-shoulder.... 

Page 

Ilebard 

Huber,  1 

Iluber,  2 

lleber,  3 

llebcr,  4 

lleber,  5 

lleber,  6 

lleber,  7 

llebcr,  Keginald... 

Hebrew 

Hebrew  of  the  He- 
brews  

Hebrew  Language. 
Hebrews,  Epistle  to 

Ilcbron,  1 

Hebron,  2 

Hebron,  3 

Hebron,  4 

Hebrouite 

lleckeweliler 

Bedding 

Hedge 

Hedge,  Levi 

Hedio 

lledwig. . . . 
lleerbrund. 
Heeniiiiuu  . 


LIST  OF  ARTICLES  IX  VOL.  IV. 


£ 


'Helve! ins Page  179  Hermit Page  20S' riieffius Page  238  Hirsch-Chotsclh. . . 

12S  Ilelviciis  7.  iso  lie rniogen es aOS'lIiggiiison, Francs  23r  Page  2^4 

l-Vllelvidius lSu  Hennogenes  (her-  Higginson,  Johu...  238  Hirschnn 2.4 

20S  High-Churchmen  . 23S  Hirscher 2^4 


12s  Helyot l»‘l  etie) 


llerh  ISO  Hennou 20S| High  Commission.  239  Hirt 275 

1‘2S  JlenviiV  1 ISO  Herod 209  High  Hass 239  Hire 275 

1JS  Helmin'  2 ISO1  Herod  the  Great. . . 211  High  Place 239  Hirzel,  Bernhard. . 275 

s , ,o  ,1  a : * oi  t>  1I5..-K  Oil  .Inhnmi 


Herod  Antipas.  . ..  213  High-priest 241  Hirzel,  Johann 275 

Herod  Arcbelaus . . 213  Highway 251  Hiss 275 

Herod  Philip  I 214  Higncrra 251  Histopedes 275 

Herodias 214  Ililaria 252  Histories 275 

Herod  Philip  H...  214  Hilarianus 252  History 275 

Herod  Agrippa  I..  2 14i Ililario 252  Hist riomastix 277 

Herod  Agrippa  II. . 215|  Hilarion,  St 252  Hit.ehcock1Edward  27S 

216  Hilarius  Arelateu-  IHitchcock,  Enos...  278 

21 61  sis 252  Hitchcock,  Gad 27S 

217 'Hilarius  Diaconus.  252  Hitt 27S 

217  Hilarius  Pictavien-  Hittite 27S 

. 217  sis 252lHivite. 2S1 


12S  Hemal h 

12s  Hem  dan ISO 

12s  Ilemcrobaptistae...  1S1 

12S  Hemlock,  1 1S1 

129  Hemlock,  2 1S1 

Hemmenway 1st 

131  Hemmerlin 1S1 

131  Hemming 182 

140  Ilemsen 1S2 

149  1 leu  (a  man) 18: 

152  Hen  (a  bird) 1S2 

152  Hena 1S2 

152  Heuadad 1S2 

152  Hen  del 1S2 

152  Henderson,  Alex- 

153  ander 1S2 

153  Henclersou,  Ebene- 

154  zer 1 SB . , 

154  Henderson,  John..  1S3  Hervey 219]IIildesley 255] Hoag,  Ephraim,. . . 2S3 

154  llengstenberg 1S3  Hesed 219  Hildreth 255  Hoag,  Wilbur 2S4 

154  llenhofer 1S4  Heser 219  Hildnf 255  Hoar 2S4 

154  Henke 1S4  Heshbon 22ti  Hilkiah,  1 255  Hoard 2s4 


Herodians 

Herodias 

tlerodiou 

Herodium S 

Ilerold.. 


Heron 217  Hilarins  1 253  llizkiab 283 

Herrin" 21S Hilda,  St 254  Hizkijah 2S3 

Herrnhut 218  Hildebert 254  Hizr 2S3 

Herron 21S  Hiidegarde 254  lljovt 2S3 

Hcruli 219  Hildegonde 254  Iloadley, Beniamin  2S3 

Herviens 219]llilderpham 254  Iloadley,  John 2S3 


legai ., 


Hegel 

Hegesippus 

Hegira 

Ilegins 

lle-Cuat 

lleidanus 

Heidegger 

Heidelberg  Cate- 
chism  

Ileiileuheim 

Heifer 

Heilmann 

Jleilpriu 

Heineccins 

Heiuicke 

Heinsins 

Heir 

II  el  ah 

lielani 

Ilelbali 

I lei  bon 

I I vie  hi  ah 

Ileldai,  1 

Hut  lai,  2 

Held  uu 

Heleb  ., 

Iletud 

Helek 

llelem,  1 

Helem,  2 

Helena 

ileleph 

Ilelez.,  I 

I !«de/.,  2 

iieifeusteiu,  Chits.. 
H'dfen-.ieiii,  John 

1 'onrad  Albert... 
Helfeiislein,  Jona- 
than   

tlelfl'erich,  John 

lle.nv 

tlelfl'erich,  John... 

1 l**l • I 

Ueli,  2 

llelmdorns 

H-  r idorus  of  Em- 
il. 1 . ' ihalus 

lb  k .■  

II.k.,i,  

1-  'li-lm/.zuriin. 

1 • ;i  ' 

• f ‘ ' ii’isV’s  De- 

| ‘‘I.  inti* 

'uiiisluncnts.  l"i 


155  Henkel,  Charles.. . 1S4 

155  Henkel,  Paul 181 

15S  Hennepin 1S5 

158  Henniuger 1S5 

159  Henoticon 1S5 

159  Henry  of  Ghent. ..  1S5 
159  Ilenry  of  Gorcum..  1S5 
159.  Henry  of  Hunting- 

I don 1S5 

159  Henry  of  Lausanne  isg 
lilt  Henry  of  St.  Igna- 

1U1  tilts ISG 

1(51  Henry  IV 1S6 

lOl  Henry  VIII ISG 

1G1  Henry,  Matthew. ..  1SS 
1GI  Henry,  Paid  Emile.  1S9 
l <52  Henry,  Philip ISO 

162  Henry,  Thomas 

163  Charlton ISO 

1G3  Henschenius ISO 

1G3  llensliaw  .. 


Heshmon 220  Hilkiah,  2.. 


II  ■ 


«nt  . 


h.... 


Hi 
li- 
lt. 

IU.|>l2  ... 


leet.  . 


. 255  Hon  re 2S4 

Hess,  Johann......  220  Hilkiah;  3 255  llobnb 2S4 

Hess,  Johann  Ja-  Hilkiah,  4 255  Ilubah 2S4 

kob 220  Hilkiah,  5 255  Ilohart,  Johu  Hen- 

Hesse 220  Hilkiah,  6 255  ry 2S4 

Hesse  von  Hessen-  Hilkiah,  7 255  Ilobart,  Noah 2S5 

stein 221'Hilkiah,  S 255  Ilobart,  Peter 2S5 

Ilesshnsen 221  Hill 255  Hobbes 2S5 

Hesychasts 222  11  ill-gods 25G  Ilobbhabn 2SC 

Hesychius 222  Hill,  George  (1)...  256  llobbs 2S6 

Hesychius  of  Jern-  Ilill,  George  (2) .. . 25G  Hobhonse 2S6 

salem 222  Hill,  Green 25G  Hobnrg 286 

Hetasrite 222  Hill,  Noah  256  Ilocheisen 2S6 

Heterodox 223  Hill,  Sir  Richard  ..  256  Hochmaim. 2*6 

Hetcrousiaus 223  Hill,  Howland 256  Ilochstetter 2S7 

Heth 223  Hill,  William 257  Hochwart 2S7 

Iletheriugton 223  Hillel 257  Hock  Tide 2s7 

Hethlou 223  Hillel  I.... 257  Hod 287 

Hetzel 223  Hillel  II 257  Ilodaiah 2S7 

llelzer 223  Hiller,  Matthias...  258  Hodaviah,  1 2*7 

Heubner 224  Hiller,  Philip  Fred-  Hodaviah,  2 2S7 

163  Hepha 190  Ilengh 224  erick 25S( Hodaviah,  3 2S7 

163  Hepher,  1 19o[lIeumaun 224  llillhonse 25S  Hodegetics 2S7 

163  Hepher,  2 190  Hewing 224  Hilliard 25S  Hodegetria 288 

163  Hepher,  3 IPO.IIewit 224  Ilillyer 25S  Hodesh 2S8 

163  Hepher,  4 190  Hey 225  llinierins  (sophist)  25S  Hodges,  Cyrus 283 

163  Hephcrite 190  lleVdeurich 225  Ilimerius  (bishop).  25S  Hodges,  Joseph...  £88 

163  Ilephzibah,  1 190|Heylin,  Peier 225  Himyarites 25S  Hodges,  Walter. ...  2SS 

163  Ilephzibah,  2 190,  Heylyu,  Johu 225  II in 259  Hodgson,  Bernard.  2SS 

104  Ileraclas 190  Hey  wood 225  Ilinchcliffe 259  Hodgson,  Robert. . 2SS 

164  Heracleonitis ]9o|lIezeki 225  Ilinekelmaun 259  Hodlieilids 2*8 

164  Heraclitus 190|IIezekinh,  1 225  Hinckley 259  Ilodiah 2*3 

191  Hezekiah’s  Pool...  231  jllincks,  Edward.. . 259  Hodijab,  1 288 

P.UlIIezekinh,  2 231  Hincks,  John 259  Hodijab,  2 28S 

192  Ilezekiah,  3 231  Hincmar  of  Laon..  259;IIody 2SS 

192  Hezekiah,  4 231  Hiucmarof  Rheims  259'Hoe 2SS 

193  Hezion 23]  Hind 260  Hoel 289 

164  Herbert,  George...  194  Hezir,  1 231  Hinds 260|IIocschelius 2S9 

Hercules 194'llezir,  2 231  Hinduism 26o'lloeven 289 

164  Herd 194'llezro 231  Hindu  Philosophy.  265  Ilofacker,  Ludwig.  2S9 

Herder 195  Hezron,  1 232  Hindus 265  Ilofacker,  Wilhelm.  2S9 

164  Herd  man 196  Hezron,  2 232  Hinge 265  II  Orel 290 

164  Heres,  1 19S  Hezron,  3 232  llinman 265  Holer 290 

165  lleres,  2 198  Hibbard 232  Ilinimm 265  Ilcft'baner 290 

165  lleresh 198  Hickes...: 232  Hiurichs 207|Hoffediiz 290 

165  iterc.siarcli IPSjllicks 232  Hinton 267  Hoffmann, Andreas  290 

Heresy 19S  Hiddai 232  Ilioneu-tsang......  267  Hoffmann,  Daniel.  290 

165  Heretics,  Baptism  Hiddekel 232  Hip  (part  of  the  Hoffmann,  Gott- 
is   202'Hiel 233  body) 267|  fried 291 

165  Heritage 203illierapo]is 233  Hip  (in  architect-  Hoffmann,  Hein- 

165  Hermann  of  Co-  Hierarchy 233  tire) 267  rich 291 

165  logne 203  Hie  rax 235  Ilippicus 267  Hoffmann,  Immau- 

165  Hermann  of  Fritz-  Ilicreel 235  Hippo 268  nel 291 

1,55  lal' 203  llieremoth,  1 235  llippolytns,  8t 26S  Hoffmann,  Johann  291 

Hermann  Coutrac-  Hieremoth,  2 235  llippolytns,  Broth-  Hoffmann,  Melchi- 

!l,s 204  Ilierielns 235  ers  of  the  Chris-  l or. 291 

h3  Hermann  of  Tours  204  liiermas 235  tian  Love  of.....  269  Iloffraier 291 

G4  Hermann  von  der  Ilieroclcs  (govern-  Hippopotamus....  270  Hailing 292' 

G*»  Hardt 204  or) 235  Hippos 272  Hofmann,  Johann 

l«i»  Hermann,  Niko-  Hieroclcs(Neo-Pla-  Ilirah 272  Georg 292 

ili  , 204  tonist) 235  Hiram,  1 272  IIofma.nn,  Karl....  292 

1*<  Hernias 204  Hieroglyphics 235  Hiram,  2 272  tlorstode  de  Groot.  292 

I.*  Hennas  (writer)...  204  Ilieromax 237  Hiram,  3 273  Hoge,  James 292 

17*  I crmenenlae 205  Hieromnemon 237  Hi rca mis 273  Huge,  Moses 292 

in  ermoiieutics 205  Ilieron 237  Hireling 273  Iloge,  Samuel 293 

206  Iheronymites 237  Hirmologiou 273  Hog] ah 293 


164  Herald 

164  Herb 

164  Hcrbart 

164  llerbelot 

Herbert,  Edward 


i Hermes 


llC.lf-  ••••••••' 

0 JUStlf  V,OUsCUS0t» 


ITS  IJermes  Georg....  206' Hieronymus..'.'.'.'! ! 238  Ilirmos  ° . 274  Hotiam  !.!!!..... . 293 

1*8  Ue.rmeH  j nsmegis-  [Hierophant 23S  Hir  ' 


„ 206  lliester  .... 

1*8  llermians 207  Higden 

'79  Ilermias 207,lliggaiou  ... 


Hirnheim 274  llohenburg 293 

. 238  Ilirsch,  Andreas.. . 274  Ilohenlohe 293 

. 23S  Ilirsch,  Carl  Chris-  Ilohnbanm 294 

23S|  tian 274  Holbach 294 


> S’ 


LIST  OF  ARTICLES  IN  VOL.  IV. 


1119 


Italian Page  702! 

Italian  School 702 

Italian  Versions.. . 702 

Italic  Version 703 

Italy 703 

Italy,  Modern 705 

Itch 711 

Ith 711 

Ithamar 711 

Ithiel,  1 711 

Ithicl,  2 711 

Ithmah 711 

Ithnan 711 

Ithra 711 

Ithran,  1 711 

Ithran,  2 711 

Ithream 711 

Ithrite 711 

Itinerancy 711 

Ittah-kazin 714 

Ittai,  1 714 

Ittai,  2 714 

Ittig 714 

Ittirsea... 714 

Itzchaki 715 

Ivah 715 

Ives 716 

Ivo 716 

Ivory 716 

Ivy 718 

Ixora 71S 

lyar 719 

Izhar 719 

Izrahiah,  1 719 

Izrahiah,  2 719 

Izrahite.r 719 

Izri 719 

Jaakan 719 

Jaakobab 719 

Jaaia 719 

Jaalara 719 

Jaanai 719 

Jaaphar  lbu-To- 

phail 719 

Jaare-oregim 719 

Jaasan 720 

Jaasiel 720 

Jaazaniah,  1..... ..  720 

Jaazaniah,  2 720 

Jaazaniah,  3 720 

Jaazaniah,  4 720 

Jaazer 720 

Jaaziah 721 

Jaaziel 721 

Jabajahites 721 

Jabal 721 

Jabalot 721 

Jabbok 721 

Jabesh,l 722 

Jabesh,  2 722 

Jabesh-gilead .....  722 

o’l^z.l 722 

Jabez,  2 722 

Jabez,  Isaac 723 

Jabin,  1 723 

Jabin,  2 723 

Jabineau 723 

JabloDski,  Daniel.  723 
Jablonsld,  Paul...  724 

Jabneel,  1 724 

Jabnecl,  2 721 

Jabneh 724 

Jabrncla 

Jachan 725 

Jachin,  1 725 

Jachin,  2 725 

Jachin,  3 725 

Jachiu,  4 725 

Jacinth 725 

Jackal 725 

Jackson,  Arthur...  725 
Jackson,  Cyril.  ..  727 
Jackson,  James...  727 
Jackson,  Johu....  727 
Jackson,  Samuel..  727 
Jackson,  Thomas.  727 
Jacksou,  William,  1 727 
Jackson,  William, 2 727 
Jackson, William, 3 72S 

Jacob,  1 72S 

Jacob  (a  title) 734 

Jacob’s  Well 735 

Jacob,  2 735 

Jacob  of Edessa. ..  735 
Jacob  of  Huugary.  735 
Jacob  of  Juteibock  736 
Jacob  of  London. . 736 
Jacob  of  Mies. 

Jacob  of  Nisibis. ..  736 


Jacob  of  Surng — 
Page 

Jacob  of  Vi  try 

Jacob  de  Voragine. 
Jacob  ben-Abba- 

Mari 

Jacob  ben-Asheri.. 
Jacob  beu-Cliajim. 
Jacob  ben-Eleazar. 
Jacob  ben-Sheshet. 

Jacob  Berab 

Jacob  Emdeu 

Jacob,  ITenry 

Jacob,  Stepheu.... 

Jacobi 

Jacobites 

Jacobs 

Jacomb 

Jacquelot 

Jacquemin 

Jactitation  of  Mar- 
riage   

Jacubns 

Jada 


Jaclau... 

Jaddes 

Jaddna,  1 

Jaddna,  2 

Jadon, l 

Jadon, 2 

Jael 

Jaffa 

Jagel 

Jiiger 

J agger 

Juggernaut 

Jaguis 

Jagur 

Jahath,  1 

Jahath,  2 

Jahath,  3 

Jahath,  4 

Jahaz 

Jahaziah 

Jahaziel,  1 

Jahaziel,  2 

Jahaziel,  3 

Jahaziel,  4 

Jahaziel,  5 

Jahdai 

Jahdiel 

Jahdo 

Jahleel 

Jahtnai 

Jahn 

Jahzeel 

Jahzerah 

Jainas 

Jair,  1 

Jair,  2 

Jair,  3 

Jair,  4 

Jairu  s,  1 

Jairus,  2 

Jakeh 

Jakim, 1 

Jakim, 2 

Jakusi 

Jal  on 

Jamaica 

Jamblichus 

Jamb  res 

Jambri 

James,  1 

James,  2 

James,  3 

James,  Epistle  of.. 
James,  Spurious 

Writings  of 

James,  St.,  Church 

of 

James’s,  St.,  Day.. 
James,  St.,  Lituriry 

of-.., r.. 

James  I 

James  II 

James,  John 

James, John  Angell 
James,  Johu  Thom- 
as  

James,  Peter 

James,  Thomas  (1). 
James,  Thomas  (2). 

Jameson 

Jami 

Jamison 

Jnmin,  1 

Jamin,  2 

Jamin,  3 


Jamlech Page  70S  Jealousy, Waters  of 

737  Jam nia 70S  Page 

737  Jainnite 76SJeanes.. 

737  Janeway,  Jacob. . . 76S  Jenrim . . 

Janeway,  James. . . 7G8| Jeaterai. 

738  Jane  way,  John 76S  Jebb,  John  (1), 

73S  Jangling 70S  T T 1 

73S  Janitores 768 

739  Janizaries 76S 

739  Janna 70S 

739  Jan  nes 76S 

739  Januing 769 

740  Janoah,  1 76!) 

740  Janoah,  2 769 

740  Janow 770 

741  Jansen,  Cornelius 

743  (1) 770 

743  Jansen,  Cornelius 

743  (2) 771'Jeclaiahj  3 

744  Jansen,  Ellert 776  Jedaiah,  4 

Jansse 776' Jediael,  1 

744  Jansseuboy,  1 776  Jediael,  2 

744  Jansseuboy,  2 776  Jediael,  3 

744  Jansseuboy,  3 776  Jedidah 

744  Janssens. . 776 

744  Jansson,  Hans 77' 

744  Jansson,  Hllle- 

744'  brand 777 

744  Jamiavins 77' 

744  Jan  um 778 

744  Janus 778 

745  Janvier,  Levi 77S 

746  Janvier,  Rene-Am- 

746 1 broise 77S 

747 1 Japan 779  Jehdeiah,  1. 

747‘Japheth 782  Jehdeiah,  2 

747|Japheth  beu-Ali...  7S2  Jehiah 

747  Japheth  ben-Said.  7S2iJehiel,  1 

747  Japhia,  1 7S2  Jehiel,  2 

747  Japhia,  2 782  Jehiel,  3 

747 1 Japhia,  3 7S2  Jehiel,  4 

74S  Japhlet 782  Jehiel,  5 

748' .Jard 783j Jehiel,  G 

74S  JJareb 7S3!  Jehiel,  7 

748  Jared,  1 7S3j  Jehiel,  S. 

74S  Jared,  2 TS3  Jehiel,  9. 


Jebb,  John  (2) 

Jeberechiah 

Jehus 

Jebusi,  1 

Jebusi,  2 

Jebusite 

Jechiel  ben-Joseph 

Jechouius,  1 

Jechonias,  2 

Jecoliah 

Jedaiah,  1 

Jedaiah,  2 


Jedidiah  

Jedna 

Jednthun  

Jeejeebhoy 

Jeezer  

Jeffery 

Jeffries 

Jegar-sahadutha.. 

Jehaleleel,  1 

Jehaleleel,  2 


| Jehu,  3 Page 

793  Jehu,  4 

793  Jehu,  5 

793 Jehubbah 

794  Jehncnl 

794;Jehnd 

794:Jehndah  ben-Sam- 
794!  nel 

794  Jehudah  beu-Zebi. 

794'Jehudi 

794|Jehudijah 

795  Jeiel,  1 

795  Jeiel,  2 

795'Jeiel,  3 

795Jeiel,  4 

795  Jeiel,  5 

795  Jeiel,  6 

7951 Jeiel,  7 

”95  Jeiel,  8 


74S]Jarenta 783  Jehiel,  10 , 

74S|Jaresiah 783  Jehizkiah ' 

748  Jarha 783  Jehoadah ' 

748  Jarib,  1 7S3 Jehoaddau ' 

748  Jarib,  2 783  Jehoahaz,  1 1 

748  Jarib,  3 784  Jehoahaz,  2 1 

74S  Jarib,  4 784  Jehoahaz,  3 ' 

748;Jarimoth 784  Jehonsh,  1 

748  Jarlath 7S4j  Jehoash,  2 ' 

748  Jarmoch 784,  Jehohanan,  1 ' 

749  Jarmnth,  1 784  Jehohanan,  2 

749  Jarmnth,  2 784  Jehohanan,  3 ' 

749  Jaroah 784  Jehohanan,  4 ' 

750  Jarqne 7S4  Jehohanan,  5 ' 

751  Jarrntt 7S4;Jehohanan,  6 ' 

151  Jarrige 7S4  Jehohanau,  7 1 

Jarry 784  Jehohanan,  S ! 

Jarvis,  Abraham ..  7S4  Jehoiachiu ' 

Jarvis,  Samuel ....  784  Jehoiada,  1 i 

Jasnel 7S5l  Jehoiada,  2.. 

tss  .T,  * * • • 


Jeiel,  9 

Jeiel,  10 

Jejiinia  qnatnor 

temporum 

Jekabzeel 

Jekameam 

Jekamiah,  1 

Jekamiah,  2 

Jekutbiel 

Jekuthi el  ben -Isaac 
Jeknthiel  ben  -Je- 
ll u da  h 

Jemima 

Jemnaau 

Jemuel 

Jeuisch 

Jenkin 

Jenks,  Benjamin.. 

Jenks,  Hervey 

Jenks,  William.... 

Jenkyu  

Jennings,  David. . . 
Jennings,  John.... 
Jennings,  Samuel. 

Jenynsl 

Jephthah  

Jephthah’s  Vow.. . 

Jepliunneh,  1 

Jephunneh,  2 

Jerah 

Jerahmeel,  1 

Jerahmeel,  2 

Jerahmeel,  3 

Jeremai 

Jeremiah,  1 

Jeremiah,  2 

Jeremiah,  3 

Jeremiah,  4 

Jeremiah,  5 

Jeremiah,  6 

Jeremiah,  7 

Jeremiah,  Book  of. 
Jeremiah,  Epistle 


S12 

S12 

814 

814 

814 

814 

514 

815 
815 

515 
815 
815 
S15 
815 
S15 
S15 
815 
S15 
815 
815 

S15 
SI5 
S15 
SI  5 

815 
S15 

515 

516 
S16 

816 
816 
S16 
S16 

516 

517 
S17 
SI  7 
817 
817 
SI  7 
S17 
SIS 
SIS 


820 

S'20 

S20 

S20 

520 

521 
821 
821 
S‘2l 
821 
821 
821 

522 


Jasheu 785  Jehoiakim 

Jasher 7S5  Jehoiarib 

Jashoheam,  1 78S  Jehonadab,  1..., 


Jashobeam,  2 7SS  Jthonadab,  2. 

Jashobeam,  3 788  Jehonathan,  1 

Jashub,  1 7SS  Jehonathan,  2 

Jashnb,  2 78S  Jehonathan,  3 

Jashubi-lehem — 7SS  Jehonathan,  4 

Jason,  1 7S9  Jehoram,  1 

Jasou,  2 789  Jehoram,  2 

Y54  Jasoli,  3 789  Jehoram,  3 

750  j Jason,  4 7S9  Jehoram,  4 

Jason,  5 7S9  Jehoram,  5 

761  Jasper 7S9!  Jehoshaphat,  1 

Jaspis 790' Jehoshaphat, 2. . . . 

761  Jassasa 79o|Jehoshaphat,  3 

761  Jasubns 790  Jehoshaphat,  4 

Jataka 790j Jehoshaphat,  5 

70l|Jatal 790  Jehoshaphat,  C ... 

7GLJiUhuiel 790  Jehoshaphat,  Val- 

764'Jattir 790  ley  of 

767|jauffret 790' Jehosheba 

767,Javiv 790[Jehovah 

| Javan,  1 791'Jehovah-jireh 

767  Javan,  2 791  ^lehovah-uissi 

757  Javelin 792jJehovah-shalora  .. 

767  Jaw 792 j Jehovah-sbammah 

767  Jay 792:  Jehovah-tsidkenu. 

767'Jayadeva 792  Jehozabad,  1 

767  Jayne 792|Jehozabad,  2 

767  Jaziz 792  Jehozabad,  3 

767  Jealousy — ■ 792i  Jehozadak 

767  Jealousy,  Image  of  793  Jehu,  1 

767;Jealotis'y-offeriug..  793,  Jehu,  2 


of 

Jeremiah,  8 

Jeremiah,  9 

Jeremiah  II 

Jeremiah  of  Sens. . 

Jereuioth,  1 

Jeremoth,  2 

Jeremoth,  3 

Jereuioth,  4 

Jeremoth,  5. . . . 

Jeremoth,  6 

Jeremy 

Jeriah 

Jeribai 

.Jericho 

Jeriel . 


S24 

S24 

S24 

824 

825 
. 825 
. S25 
. 825 
. S25 
. 825 
. 825 
. 825 
. S-25 
. 825 
. 825 


Jerimoth,  1 

Jerimoth,  2 

Jerimoth,  3 

Jerimoth,  4 

Jerimoth,  5 

Jerimoth,  6 

Jerimoth,  7 

lerioth 

Jerment 

leroboam,  1 

Jeroboam,  2 

Jeroham,  1 

Jeroliam,  2 

Jeroham,  3 

Jeroham,  4 

Jeroham,  5 

Jeroham,  6 

811  Jeroham,  7 

811  Jeroham,  S 

Sll  Jerome,  St 

812  Jerome  of  Prague. 

S12.Jerubbaal 


828 

S2S 

S2S 

82S 

828 

82S 

528 
S2S 

529 
S29 

829 

529 

530 
S30 
S30 

830 
830 
830 
S33 


1120 


LIST  OF  ARTICLES  IN  YOL.  IV. 


Jenibbeshelh. Page  835!  Jezreel,  l.....Page  917 

Jenicl 836  Jezreel,  Bloofr of..  917 

Jerusalem S36  Jezreel,  Day  of....  917 

Jerusalem,  Coun-  Jezreel,  Ditch  of...  91S 

cils  of S61  Jezreel,  Fountain 

Jerusalem  Creed..  Still  of .• — ■ 918 

Jerusalem,  Friends  [Jezreel,  Portion  of.  91S 
of  S61  Jezreel,  Tower  of..  91S 


Jerusalem, Knights 

of 861 

Jerusalem,  New...  861 
Jerusalem,  the  New 
See  of  St.  James 

in 862 

Jerusalem,  Johann  863 

Jerusha 863 

Jeshaiah,  1 S63 

Jeshaiah,  2 863 

Jeshaiah,  3 S63 

Jeshaiah,  4 863 

Jeshaiah,  5 S63 

Jeshaiah,  6 S63 

Jeshaiah,  7 S63 

Jeshanah S63 

Jesharelah S63 

Jeshebeab S63 

Jesher S63 

Jesliimoii S63 

Jeshishai 863 

Jeshohaiah S63 

Jeshua,  1 864 

Jeshnu,  2 S64 

Jeshua,  3 SG4 

Jeshua,  4 864 

Jeshua,  5 S64 

Jeshua,  6 S64 

Jeshua,  7 S64 

Jeshua,  S 864 

Jeshua,  9 S64 

Jeshua,  10 S64 

Jeshua,  11 S64 


Jezreel,  Valley  of..  918 

Jezreel,  2 919 

Jezreel,  3 919 

Jezreel,  4 919 

Jezreelite 919 

Jezreelitess 919 

Jibsani 919 

Jidlaph 919 

Jiphtah 919 

Jiphthahel 919 


Johauau,  7... Page  941  John  XIII  ...Page 

Johauau,  8 942  John  XIV 

Johan  an,  9 942  John  XV 

Johannes,  1 942  John  XVI 

Johannes,  2 942  John  XVII 

Johlsohn 942  John  XVIII 

John 942  John  XIX 

John  the  Apostle. . 942  John  XXI 

John,  Gospel  of.. . 945  John  XXII 

John,  First  Epistle  John  XXI II 

of 951  John’s  Day 

John,  Second  and  John  the  Evangel- 

Third  Epistles  of  954  ist’s  Day 

John  the  Baptist..  955  John’s,  Eve.  of  St.. 

John  HSgeates 959'  Johns,  Richard. . . . 

John  the  Almsgiv-  Johns,  W.  G 

er 960  Johnson,  AlbertOs- 

John  of  Antioch,  1.  960 


999 


Joab,  1 920  John  of  Antioch,  2.  961 

Joab,  2 920  John  of  Antioch,  3.  961 

Joab,  3 921  John  Archaph 961 

Joachaz 921  John  Argyropnlns.  961 

Joachim,  1 921  John  of  St.  Arnoul.  962 

Joachim,  2 921  John  of  Avila 962  , . . 

Joachim  ofFloris.  921  John  Baptist 962  Johnson,  John  (2). 

Joncim,  1 922  John  of  Bassova. . . 962  Johnson,  John  Ba- 

Joacim,  2 922  John  Bnridamis. . . 962|  rent 

Joacim,  3 922  John  the  Cappado-  (Johnson,  Joseph  .. 

Joacim,  4 922  cian 962  Johnson, Samttel(I) 


borne 
Johnson,  Enoch. .. 
Johnson,  Evan  M.. 
Johnson,  Haynes.. 
Johnson,  Herman 

Merrill 

Johnson,  John  (1). 


5 Joacim,  5 922  John  of  Citrus 963 

l Joadauus 922  John  (VI)  of  Con- 

4 Jonh,  1 922  stantinople 963 

i Joab,  2 922  John  of  Cornwall. . 963 

[ Jonh,  3 922  John  of  Crema 963 

1 Joah,  4 922  John  the  Deacon . 

4 Joahaz 922  John  Cyparissiota.  964 

1 Joan  (popess) 922  John  of  Damascus.  964 

1 Joan  of  Arc 923  John  of  Darn 965 

1 Joan  of  Kent 924  John  de  Dieu 966 

I Joanan 924  John  of  Driindorf.  966 

, i Joanes 924  John  of  Egypt 960 

Jeshurun 864  Joanna,  1 924' John  of  England. . 966 

Jesimiel S64]Joauna,  2 924  John  of  Ephesns  . . 967 

Jessseans 864  Joannan 924!  John  of  Euchaita..  968 

Jesse SG4  Joarib 924  JohnofFalkenberg  90S 

Jesse,  Tree  of SGsjJoash,  1 924  John  the  Faster...  96S 

Jessue S65  Joash,  2 924  John  of  Fecamp. ..  90S 

Jesu 8G5[  Joash,  3 924:  John  of  Gischala. . 968 

Jesttutes S65  Joash,  4 924[  John  of  Gorz 969 

Jesuits 865  Joash,  5 924!  John  the  Italian,  1.  969 

Jesus,! 8731  Joash,  6 924  John  the  Italian,  2.  969 

Jesus,  2...1 873  Joash,  7 924,  John  of  Jerusalem, 

Jesus,  3 873  Joash,  8 925;  1 

Jesus,  4,  the  Son  of  Jonzabdus 925  John  of  Jerusalem, 

Sirnch S73  Joazar 925|  2 976 

Jesus  (in  Josephus)  873  Job,  1 925  John  of  Jerusalem, 

Jesus  Christ 873  Job’s  Disease 937!  3 976 

Jesus  Christ,  Or-  (Job,  2 938  John  of  Jerusalem, 

dors  of 901  Job  of  Rnstoff . . . . 93S  4 970 

Jesus  (Holy  Child),  Jobab,  1 93S  John  the  Laborious  971 

Congregation  of.  902  Jobab,  2 93S  John  the  Little 971 

J e s u s’  Sacred  Jobab,  3 938  John  of  Matha....  971 

Heart,  Society  of  902  Jobab,  4 938  John  of  Meda 975 

Jether,  1 902Mobab,  5 93S  John  the  Monk....  975 

Jether,  2 goiijoceline  of  Salis-  iJohn  of  Monte  Cor- 

Jether,  3 902,  bury 938]  vino 975 

Jether,  4 902  Joch 93S  John  of  Nepomnk.  975 

Jether,  5 902(Jochanau  bar-Na-  | John  Niciota 975. 

Jether,  6 903|  pacha 938  John  of  Nicklaus- 

Jethcr,  7 903  Jochanan  beu-Za-  | hausen 


Jetheth 903  chai 93S1  John  of  Nicomedia  97: 

Jethlah 903Jochebed 939  John  of  Oxford....  97: 

Jethro 903  Joda 939  John  of  Paris 97: 

Jetnr 904  Joed 939  John  of  Parma....  97-, 

Jetzer 904  Joel,  1 939(  John  Phocas 97-1 

i*  i ", 905  Joel,  2 939jJohn  Phurnes 97s 

Jeush,  1 905  Joel,  3 939  John  the  Presbyter  97s 

Jeush,  2 905  Joel,  4 939  John  Prester 971 

Jeush,  3 905  Joe],  5 939,  John  liaithuensis.  97( 

•’ens,'»  i 905  Joel,  6 939  John  de  la  Rochelle  97< 

Jeush,  5 905  Joel,  7 939  John  of  Rupeseissa  97< 

Jr‘;nz 905  Joel,  Book  of. 939,  John  of  Salisbury.  97< 

Jew. ... . . ... ......  905  Joel,  S 941  John  the  Scholar,  1 97' 

Jew,  the  Wander-  Joel,  9 941  John  the  Scholar,  2 97: 

TnV»2; Joel,  10 941  JohnofScythopolis  97', 

•}cwc1- 914  Joel,  11 941  John  ofTalaia....  97' 

J6"011 914  Joel,  12 941  John  the  Teuton . . 977 

wef?u",'r 914 Joelali 941  John  of  Thessalo- 

Jewett,  W lllnun. ..  9l5Joezer 941  uiCa  974 

Jewett,  William  D.  9J5Joghehah 941  John  1 971- 

915  Jogli 941  John  II "i  97s 

"e"T,;y- 915  Jogues,  orYugs...  941  [John  III 97s 

Jezebel.. 915  John,  1 941  John  IV 978 

•{eze,ls»* 916  Joha,  2 941  John  V 978 

fe"8’  2 916  Johanan,  1 941  John  VI  and  VII..  97S 

9 6 Johauau,  2 941  John  VIII 979 

je*  ^ 9 6 Johanan,  3 941  John  IX 9S0 

9 6 Johauau,  4 941  John  X 9S0 

ill  916  Johanan,  5 941  John  XI 9S0  Jones,  Beniamin  (1) 

lub 917  Johan  an,  b 941,  John  XII 9S0  Jones,  Benjamin  (2) 


Johnson, Samuel  (2) 
Johnson, Samuel  (3) 
Johnson,  Thomas. 
Johnson,  W’illiam 

Bullien 

Johnsonians 

Johnston,  Arthur.. 
Johnston,  John ... 

Johnstone 

Joiada,  1 

Joiada,  2 

Joiakim 

Joiarib,  1 

Joiarib,  2 

Joiarib,  3. 

Joiarib,  4 

Joining 

Joint 

Jokdeam 

Jokirn 

Jokmeam 

Jokueam 

Jokshau 

Joktan 

Jokthecl,  1 

Joktheel,  2 

Jolly 

•lonadab,  1 

louadab,  2 

Jonah 

Jonah’s  Prophecy. 
Jonah  ben -Abra- 
ham   

Tonan 

Jonas,  1 

Ion  as,  2 

Jonas,  3 

Tonus  of  Orleans.. 

Tonas,  Justus 

Tonus,  Ludwig. ... 

Jonathan,  1 

runathan,  2 

lonathan,  3 

Jonathan,  4 

Jonathan,  5 

Jonathan,  6 

lonathan,  7 

Tonathan,  8 

Jonathan,  9 

lonathan,  10 

Jonathan,  11 

lonathan,  12 

Tonathan,  13 

Jonathan,  14 

lonathan,  15 

lonathan,  16 

lonathan,  17 

lonathan,  18 

Jonathan,  19 

Jonathan,  2ft 

lonathan,  21 

Jonathan,  22 

Jonathan,  23 

Jonathan  ben-Uz- 

ziel 

Jonatlias 

Jonath  - elem  - re- 

chokim 

Joncourt 


9S1  [Jones,  Charles 
9S1  Co!cock...Page  998 
9S1  Jones,  Cornelius..  999 
9Sl(Joues,  Diivid  (1). . 999 

951  Jones,  David  (2). . 999 
981  Jones,  Greenhury 

981 1 R 999 

981  Jones,  Griffith oqq 

9Sl[Jones,  Horatio 

952  Gates 

9S2  Jones,  Jeremiah..  1000 

! Jones,  Joel looo 

9S21  Jones,  John  (1). ..  lOoft 

952  Jones,  John  (2)...  1000 

953  Jones,  John  (3)...  1600 
983  Jones,  John  M. . . 1000 

(Jones,  John  Tay- 

9S3 1 lor 1000 

983  Jones,  Joseph 
9S3  Huntington 1001 

953  Jones,  Lot 1001 

(Jones,  Robert  C..  1001 

9S3,  Jones,  Samuel 1001 

983  Jones,  Thomas. . . 1001 

984  Jones,  William  .. . 1001 
(Jones,  Sir  Will- 

9S4|  iam 1002 

954  Jonsson 1002 

9S4  Joppa 1002 

984!Joppe 1004 

9S5,  Jorah 1004 

9S6  Jorai 1004 

j Joram 1004 

9S6  Jordan 1004 

9S6  Jordan,  Joseph.. . 1009 

986  Jordan, Richard (1)  1009 

9S6 1 Jordan  ,Richard(2)  1009 

9S6Jordanus 1009 

986Joribas 1010 

956  Jorini 1010 

987  Joris 1010 

987  Jorisseu 1011 

987  Jorkoam 1011 

957  Jornandez 1011 

9S7  Jortin 1012 

9S7  Josabad 1012 

9S7  Josaphat 1012 

987  Josaphias 1012 

9S7:Joscelin 1012 

9S7'Joscius 1012 

9S7  Jose 1012 

9S7  Josedec 1012 

987  Joseph,  1 1012 

OSS  Joseph,  2 1018 

OSS  Joseph,  3 1018 

9S9;  Joseph,  4 101S 

989  Joseph,  5 1018 

989:  Jose])  h,  6 1018 

9S9(  Joseph,  7 101S 

9901  Joseph,  8 1018 

(Joseph,  9 1018 

993  Joseph,  10 101S 

993  Joseph,  11 101S 

993  Joseph,  12 lolS 

993  Joseph,  13 101S 

993(  Joseph,  14 1018 

993(Joseph,  15 1018 

993  Joseph,  16 lolS 

994  Joseph,  17 1020 

994  Joseph,  IS 1020 

994|  Joseph,  19 1020 

994  Joseph,  20 1020 

996  Joseph,  21 1020 

996, Joseph,  22  1020 

996  Joseph,  23  1020 

996  Joseph  of  Con- 

996  stantinople 1020 

996  Joseph  the  Hym- 

996  uologist 1020 

996  Joseph  ben-Chija.  1021 
996  Joseph  ben-Gori- 

996|  on 1021 

996  Joseph  ben-Shem- 

996  tob 1022 

996  Joseph  u 8 1022 

996  Josephus,  Flavius  1022 

996  Joses 1025 

997  Joshah 1025 

997  Joshaviah 1025 

997  Joshbekasba 1025 

997  Josheb-bassebetli  1025 

997|  Joshua,  1 1025 

Joshua,  Book  of..  1027 

997|Joshua,  Spurious 

99S,  Writings  of 1032 

Joshua,  2 1032 

998  Joshua,  3 1032 

998(  Joshua,  4 1032 

99S|Joshua  ben-IIa- 
99S]  nanja 1032 


Joshua  ben-Jebu- 

dah Page 

Josiah,  1 

Josiah,  2 

Josias 

Josibiah 

Josipbiah 

Joso 

Jost 

Jot 

Jotbah 

Jotbathah 

Jot  ham,  1 

Jotham,  2 

Jotham,  3 

Jotham,  4 

Jotham,  5 

Joubert 

Jouffroy 

Jourual 

Journey 

Jouvenci 

Jovian... 

Joviuian 

Joy 

Joy  of  God 

Joye 

Joyner 

Jozabad,  1 

Jozabad,  2 

Jozabad,  3 

Jozabad,  4 

Jozabad,  5 

Jozabad,  6 

Jozabad,  7 

Jozabad,  8 

Jozachar 


LIST  OF  ARTICLES  IN  VOL.  IV. 


IJubal Page 

1032  Jubilee 

1033  Jubilee,  Roman 

1034  Catholic 

1034  Jubilees,  Book  of. 

1034  Juda,  1 

1034  Juda,  2 

1034  Juda,  3 

1034  Juda,  4. 

1035  Judaea 

1035  Judah,  1 

1035  Judah,  Tribe  of.. . 


1036 

1036 

1036 

1036 

1036 

1036 

1036 

1036 

1036 

1037 
1037 

1037 

1038 
1038 
1038 
103S 


103S 

103S 

103S 

103S 


Judah,  Kingdom 

of 

Judah,  Mountains 

of 

Judah,  Wilderness 

of 

Judah  upon  Jor- 
dan   

Judah,  2 

Judah,  3 

Judah,  4 

Judah, 5 

Judah  bak-Ko- 

desh 

Judah  Jndgban.. 

Judah,  Leo 

Judaism 

Judaism,  Conserv- 
ative  

Judaism,  Reform- 
ed  

Judaizing  Chris- 
tians   

Judas,  1 

Judas,  2 


1030  Judas,  3 Page 

1039 'Judas,  4 

Judas,  5 

1042  Judas,  6 

1043 'Judas,  7 

1045 'Judas,  8 

1045  Judas,  9 

1045  Judas,  10 

1045  Judas,  11 

1045  Judas,  12 

1046  Judas,  13 

1047  Judas,  14 

Judas-light 

1052  Judd,  Gaylord 

Judd,  Sylvester.. . 

1053  Judd,  Willard.... 

Jude 

1054  Jude,  Epistle  of . . 

Judes 

1054  Judge 

1054  Judges,  Book  of.. 

1054  Judging 

1054  Judgment 

1054  Judgment,  Right 
of  Private 

1054  Judgment,  The 

1055  Last  

1055  Judgment  Day. . . 
1055  Judgment-seat. . . 

Judgments 

Judices  electi 

Judicial  Blindness 

Judith,  1 

Judith,  2 

Judith,  Book  of.. 
1060  Judson,  Adoni- 
1060 1 ram 


1060  Judson,  Ann  Has- 

1060  seltiue Page 

1060  Judson,  Sarah 

1060  Boardman 

1060  Judson,  Emily 

1060 1 Chubbuck 

1060  Juel 

1060  Jueunin 

1060  j Jugglers 

1064  Juice 

1064' Jukes 

1064  Jul 

1064  Jules 

1064  Julia 

1064  Julian  the  Apos- 

1064  tate 

1064,  Julian  of  Halicar- 

1065  nassus  

1065,  Julian  Cesarini. . . 

1068,Julian  Cross 

1073'Juliano 

1079  Julias 

1079  Julitta 

Julius 

Julius  (the  Martyr) 
Julius  Africauus.. 

Julius  Caesar 

Julius  Henry 

Julius  I 

Julius  II 

Julius  III 

Jumenta 

Jumpers ......... 

Junia 

Junilius 

Juniper 

Junius,  Francis... 


1121 

Junius,  Franciscus 
10SS,  Page  1097 

I Junius,  Robert . . . 1097 

1088  Junkin 1098 

iJuno 1098 

10SS  Jupiter 1098 

108S  Jure  Divino 1100 

lOSOjJurieu 1100 

10S9  Jurisdiction 1100 

10S9  Jus  Asyli 1100 

10S9  Jus  Devolntum...  1100 

1089  Jushab-Hhesed  . . 1101 

1089iJustel,  Christo- 
1089,  pher 1101 

lJustel.Henry 1101 

10S9  Jnsti 1101 

'Justice 1101 

1090  Justice  of  God 1101 

1090  Justice,  Adminis- 

10921  tration  of 1102 

1092  Justification 1102 

1092  Justin  Martyr 1104 

1092  Justin  the  Gnostic  1110 

1092  Justin  1 1110 

1092  Justiua,  St 1110 

1092  Justina  of  Padua.  1110 

1093  Justinian 1110 

1094Justinus 1111 

1094  Justus,  1 1111 

1094  Justus,  2 1111 

1094  Justus,  3 1111 

1095  Justus,  St 1111 

1095Jnstus  of  Tiberias  1111 

1095  Jutland 1112 

1095  Juttab 1112 

1095  Juvencus 1112 

1097  Juxon 1112 


END  OF  VOL.  IV. 


